VOL. XXVIII. MANNING, -S. C., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1916. -
A EEK HTHE
STATE . LWMAKERS
SOLONS !M BOTH- -BRANCHES
WRESTLE WITH STATEWIDE
MEASURES.
URGE CONCILIATION BOARD
Provide For Agriculture in Common
Schools.-Long Time Land Loans.
-Child -Labor Bill.
Columbia.
The administration bill to create a
board of conciliation for the investi
gation and arbitration of industrial
disputes, introduced, is the house by
J. W. Boyd, passed- second reading in
the house without, opposition or de
bate. No vote. was taken,' the bill. go
ing through as if -it were an uncon
tested local measure.
The~ bill' provides for a board' of
threo-mel~erA t4 be appointed by the
governor, one for two, one for four
- and-one for- -sir- years; -which will
thereafter be the term of service.
The per diem Is ifxed' at $10 .and'the
board can he called into session by
the governor, the attorney general or
eithei of the aggrieved parties.
The duties and functions of the
board shall be the "conciliation of In
dustrial disputes or strikes or lock
outs and the removal of cause for
industrial' disputes of strikes or lock
outs." The board is given power to
summon witnesses and compel them
to 'testify, to 'compel the production
of books and documents, to inspect
property and to examine into work
ing'conditions and sanitary conditions.
"In the interest of harmony and
justice and. for continued good feel
ing and 'mutual understanding be
tween employer and' employee in
South Carolina, I' earnestly urge that
this law be enacted without delay,"
says Gov. Manning in a special mes
sage, sent to the general assembly.
In which he advocates the Immediate
passage of the bill providing for a
state board of conciliation.
Provides For Agriculture.
Without opposition the house pass
ed the Toole and LaGrone bill, pro
'riding for an appropriation of $5,000
for the teaching or agriculture in the
cmmon schools of the state under
certain conditions, involving the co
operatioa-ot the schools and the kind
of' 'chobls. It was maintained by the
authors of the bill that an early fa
milihrity with agriculture would in
. culcate love for and knowledge of
the soil and would Inure to the benefit
of the state and the young people.
This Is' one of the measures the pas
sage of which was urged by Gov.
Manning in a special message.
The bill provides that state aid to
the extent of $750 will be given when
three or in6r'e 'school districts raise
a satina amount; the aggregate will
provide for the teacher's salary. Any
public school, howover, co-operating
in this work must have airf enrollment
of at least 75 pupIls with a regular
attendance of at least 40, three teach
ers ,a term of seven months, a local
tax of 8 mIlls, a- sanitary building of
at least "three rooms, plot of not less.
than two .acres1 fiatisfactory equip
ment and ~use'of 'the adopted text
books. The bill also provides for the
tree enrollment of a pupil more than
14 years old who desires to pursue
the agricultural course.
Land Loans.
The creation of a board of land
dondnisioners, which will sell home
steads on long time loans and which
will make farm mortgage loans Is
provided In a bill by the Florence
county delegation, consisting of W. S.
Lynch, Charles W. Muldrow and R.
Keith Charles. The bill Is one of
those recommended for consideration
at this session by the steering com
mittee.
The purpose of the bill, which an
thorizes the Issuance of $20,000,000
In bonds In lots of $500,000, Is to
"foster and .encourage -the art of agri
culture, the soccupation and develop
ment of the partially developed or
totally undeveloped lands of the state
in homesteads and to offer opportun
ities to the citizens for land Improve
ment." The bill provides a method
for the state to lend Its aid and credit
to farmers on "land warrants" or con
tr-acts to be paid back on an Install
ment basis.
Both the Sherard rural credits bill
and that by Senator Nickles passed to
third reading, with notice of general
amendments when the bill came up
for consideration. The plan proposed
in passing the two to third reading
was to strike out the enacting words
of the Sherard bill and amend by
substituting the Nickles bill, which
would create a rursl credits bank.
The bill to create a 13th judIcial
circuit out of Hampton, Beaufort and
Colleton counties was read the second
time.
A bill relating to the high schools
of the state and providing for state
aid was passed In the house by the
overwhelming majority of 89 to 9.
The bill regulates the disbursement of
the $35,000 appropriation for the ad
vancement of high schools and does
away with the charging of tuition in
certain instances. The bill has been
indorsen by practically all those con
nected with the public school system
.ci South Carolina.
MAN15
j. EVERRV
Pais Child Labor Bill.
Reversing its position taken a few
days ago,. the house by a large ma
jority voted in favor of a substitute
child labor bill introduced by Mr. Mc
Cullough; the new bill, which was
given a second reading on a yea and
nay vote of 61 to 39, provides that
after July 1, 1916, no child under 13
shall work in a factory, mine or tex
tile establishment and after July 1,
1917, no child under 14 shall work in
similar occupations. A special pro
vision is made to prohibit children
under 14 from working in a district
where the compulsory school attend
ance law is in force.
Only Two Quarts Per Month.
Prohibition measures were further
entrenched in South Carolina when
the senate by a vote of 26 to 1S re
duced the amount of liquor that may
be imported each month from one
gallon to two quarts. Earlier in the
morning an amendment to limit
monthly shipments to one quart was
rejected by a vote of 21 to 23. Sev
eral other amendments were offered,
among these being two to' allow the'
alternative of beer shipments. One
by. Senator Hughes of Union would
provide for 60 bottles or one-half bar
rel of beer monthly. Senator Sinkler
of Charleston offered in substitute an
-amendment to provid'e- for 30 bottles
of beer. Vote was not taken on the
alternative amendments during the
morning session..
The bill by James H. Hammond of
Richland county providing- for the is
suance of 'bonds by the county for
road improvement was accepted - by
the house on a yea and nay vote of
42 to 41 after a heated and rather
personal debate among members of
the delegation, the majority of whom
had introduced a similar bill. The
"clincher" was put on and the bill was
sent to a third reading.
* J. E. Swearingen, state superinten
dent of education, will urge the finance
committee of the . senate to increase
the appropriations for the schools of
the state by $36,000. He said the in
crease would supply the needs of the
schools for the year, but that no pro
gress could be made.
The house passed the bill by Mr.
Hicks and W. H. Rogers, Jr., to re
quire cotton mills to pay their em
ployes every week. Mr. Hicks pro
duced petitions from operatives and
letters from several corporations, a.zk
ing that the bill be enacted.
The bill by Messrs. Moore and Rob
insen to establish the John De La
Howe Industrial home and school for
destitute children, carrying a state ap
propriation of $10,000, was 'given a
second reading in the house, with
practically no opposition.
The committee on privileges and
elections returned a favorable -report,
on the bill -to create McCormick coun-.
ty, In behalf of which a large dele
gation from McCormick recently ap
peared before the committee.
The bill by Mr. Dixon providing for
an inheritance tax, which is in effect
In all but six states in some form,
was killed in the house on a yea and
nay vote of 65 to 44, after an adjourn
ed debate from the morning setAon.
The house killed a bill by Mr.
Lynch of Florence to declare that it
would not be unlawful to store beer
and light wines, the bill ieing a
quasi-amendment to the gallon-a
month law.
-A bill providing for an election in
April on a $250,000 bond issue for the
improvement of roads In Union coun
ty has been introduced in the house
Refunding Bonds.
Bids for refunding part of the state
debt, amounting to $5,000,000, under
the terms of the refunding act of 1912,
have been called for by the sinking
fund commission. The commission
decided to insert an advertisement
for bids which will be opened Febru
ay 16. The new bonds will be issued
in place of the brown consols and
will bear 4 per cent interest, which is
one-half per cent less than the state
is now paying. It is estimated that
the state will save about $20,000 to
$25,000 a year by the transaction. The
bonds are to be sold for not less than
par. Under the refunding act passed
In 1912, no provision is made for ex
empting from taxation that part of a
bank's investment in the'new bonds.|
The brown consols are exempt from~
taxation.I
Mr. Robinson of McCormick in Ab-!
beville county has introduced a- bill'
In the house to establish McCormick
county, which was recently voted in
by the voters of the territory con
taned In the proposed lines.
W. W. Moore, adjutant general, Is
hopeful that the senate will approve
the item inserted In the appropriation
bill by the lower house, which creates
an emergency fund of $25.000 to meet
the federal property shortage of the
national guard. "This shortage must
be settled not later than June 30." he
said.
Without debate the house passed to
third reading a bill by Mr. Jackson
making It a misdemeanor for a minor
to receive intoxicating liquors. Pen
alty for the violation of the statute
l placed at not more than $100 or 12
months.
A favorable report has been re-.
turned on a joint resolution to allowj
A. W. Todd of Charleston to bring1
suit against the state for the recovery
of such fees as an architect he may
have earned In connection with work
done on plans and a model for the.
remodeling of the state house.
The house, when it adjourned last
Friday for a three days' rest, had
passed the crisis of the session by
completing the appropriation bill. The
senate, too, had disposed of many
mattere that had engaged the atten
tion of Its members for some time
previous.
ING'S NEXT
BODY IN TH
GERMANS MAKING
FIERCE ATTACKS
C
GAIN FOOTHOLD IN SOME FRENCH 1
TRENCHES IN THE ARTOIS
SECTION. t
1
I
ARTILLERY IS KEPT BUSY s
t
c
Germans do Considerable Damage in t
Argonne Forest.-Russian Heavy
Guns Are Active. C
r
London.-The German are fiercely r
attacking the French positions in the 0
Artois section as well as in Cham- b
pagne. In the latter district Berlin 7
reports the capture of a fi ont of about t
700 yards, while the French admit 11
that the Germans have gained a foot- C
hold In some of their advanced t
trenches near the Tahure-Somme-Py t
road. 0
In Artois near Hill 140 which lies a
to the southwest of Vimy, the German 2
attacks followed one another in quick t
succession, there being four during b
the course of the afternoon. Pushing u
forward in the face of a hail of shells s
and bullets, the Germans, on their
four.h attempt, succeeded in entering v
one of the French first line trenches. t
which, however, they failed to hold,
being almost immediately driven out e
with considerable losses in dead and 0
wounded, according to Paris.
Northeast of Soissnns, a German at- r
tack, preceded by a bombardment re- h
suited in the capture of a French f
trench near the Crony road, but here
also they were thrown out, leaving .
their dead on the field. n
On the British e'd of the line there c
have been sapping operations and h
bombardments by both sides.
All around Soissons the German ar- b
tillery was busy, preparatory to infan
try attacks: but the attacks did not e
eventuate owi:;g to the French use of c
their guns in itain of f-e volleys. a
Considerab' ' ..ade has been done -h
to German p7 ions in the Argonne v
forest by the Trem'h Artillery duels
are in progress in Lorraine and in the t
Vosages. h
The heavy guns are being actively! 0
employed on both sides in the north
ern section of the 'ussian front. but
no important cha:- es in position have E
occurred.
In the Isonze regions the Austrians h
have taken entrenchments from the
Italians in the Rombon zone, while l
the Italian artillery has bombarded
Austrian positions at various poinrs,
especially in the Gorizia sector.
LANSING ST'UDIES NOTE. g
f2
Berlin Note on Armed Merchantmen a
Reaches D partment.
Washington. - Secretary Lansing A
studied at his home the text of the r
memo-andum from Berlin announcing
tne intention of the German Govern- 2
mnt to regard armed merchant ships i
of the Entente Allies as war vessels 0:
after February 29. Te will discuss the a
subject with President Wilson at e.
once.
The text of the memorandum from S
Austria. similar to that issued by Ger. it
many was momentarily expected. f(
It Is considered doubtful that an c.
announcement of the position the Uni- s
ted States will take in the matter will s:
be defined until both documents have t4
carefully been digested and consid
ered. Between now and that time the
attitude of the government is made
known, the state department may no
tify the representatives of tIhe En- E'
tente Allies here of the receipts of ~
the documents from the Central Pow- E'
ers; so that their government may be h
completely informed on the subject.
Ford to Fight Preparedness. s
Detroit. Minh.-It has been an- ti
nounced that Henry Ford is preparing ~
to launch a countrywide campaign of.
newspaper and magazine advertising
aainst the program for huge naval
and military expenditures now before 3
congress. It was said Mr. Ford in- a:
tends soon to carry out his announced te
Intention to devote millions of dollars a
to an educational campaign against b
war anti preparedness which he do- ti
cared to be the first step toward a
actual war.
S
Wilson Close to Congress.
Wshington.-Secretary Garrison's
resignation last week has had three g
far-reaching results upon Congress, in e:
the opinion of administration leaders.
When the excitement following the un- al
expected development had subsided it al
was apparent that it had clarified the
legislative atmosphere with regard to 1I
two important issues. National do- ii
fense and Philippine independence. It
and had served almost magically to ti
bring congress and the president C
loser together than they had been a
for many months.
Help l.s Needed.
Little Rock, Ark.-Bitter feeling y
against United States army engineers ti
because of published statements at- E
tributed to them that reports of dis
tress in the flood districts of Arkansas
had been exaggerated, was manifested
at a mass meeting in Lake Village,
which was attended by Major West of
the Mississippi River commission. andC
Lieutenant Finch of the United State e:b
army. Lieutenant Finch offered em- *
plomeii to the male refugees at 50T
ents a day. their wives and children
to be housed on government boat.
BIG DAYVM
B COUNTY1I
AYMEN'S RALLY IS ENDED
nspiring Vision Given Visitors of
Opportunity For Work in Foreign
Missions.
Columbia.-"For the size of the city
nd the conditions under which the
onvention was held, I think that Co
imbia should have the blue ribbon
ar the United States," said Lieut..
ol. E. W. Halford of New York,. in
be closing address of the South Caro
na laymen's missionary meeting.
.ieut. Col. Halford said that he made
uch a statement to the field secre
try, Dr. Lilly, at the beginning and
tat he was still of that opinion in the
losing moments of the great conven
on.
Before benediction was said by Dr.
reen of Greenwood, the number of
agistrations for the convention had
,ached 2,215 men, the largest by far,
t any Southern city and one of the
est for the entire .country. Of the
5 laymen's conventions to be.held. in
ie second national campaign, Co
imbia's was the 40th and of these 40
olumbia ranks fifth in total enroll
ient. Chicago had 4,556 registra
ons and is first; Cincinnati was sec
ad with 3,073; Pittsburg was third
ith 2,712; Boston came fourth with
566. And it must be admitted.-that
ie fc-ir that have outdone- Columbia
i numbers are slightly larger. in pop
lation, both as to the' city and the
srrounding territory.
Before the convention adjourned,
arious agencies were thanked for
ieir contributions to the success of
ie gathering, but to J. O. Van Meter,
ecutive secretary, was given not
aly the thanks of the chairman.: Wil
am .Spenser Currell, but a special
asolution in which he was praised for
is efficient and untiring efforts, as
llows:
"Whereas, Brother J. O. Van Meter,
ie executive secretary of the Lay
en's Missionary conventicn now
losing its session, has so conducted
ie affairs of the convention that- It
a3 succeeded to an eminent degree,
e it
"Resolved, That the thanks of the
recutive committee, the general local
>mmittee and the county committees
ad all laymen are hereby tenderd
im for his faithful and efficient ser
Eck, and that we predict for Mr. Van
Eeter a large place in the service of
ie Master, and we will follow him in
is work with our interest and pray
Gen. Wood at Alken.
Aiken.-Maj. Gen. Leonard A. Wood,
mmanding the Department of the
ast, United States army, delivered a
rong address on "Preparei'uess" at.
Le Thestone theatre, speaking under
te auspices of the Citizens',club be
re the people of Aiken and a large
amber of the winter residents and
sitors at the resort.
Gen. Wood motored over from -Au
asta, where he addressed the Mann
.cturera and Merchants' association
its annual dinner. On the. '-age
ere Rear Admiral Perry and - ear
dmiral Mead, United Stat.es ivy,
atired.
Gen. Wood echoed a great deal of
hat President Wilson has explain d
this appeal to the American people
i the necessity of national defense
id drove home some vital truths in
irnest argument.
The condition that the United
tates can not be prepared to defend
self and to maintain peace without
~stering militarism is puerile, he de
ared. He then attacked voluntary
~rvice, vigorously,. insisting that the
>irit of it is beautiful but the sys
im is sadly Ineffective.
Byrnes Wants Mileage Lowered.
Washington.-Congressman Brynes
South Carolina. Introduced a bill
-oviding that hereafter mileage of
embers of congress be made 5 cents
er mile coming to and returning
yme from Washington once each ses
on. The present rate of such pay .is
I cents per mile and it has been
id that members coming from dis
nt states reap a good sum from this
>rce alone.
Boy Killed by interurban.
Greenville. - Wofford Phillips, a!
hits boy 14 years of age, was struck
id instantly killed by an inbound in
rurban car from Spartanburg just
move the Poe mill crossing. The
>y's body was terribly mangled and~
te remains were almost unrecogniz
>1e.
DUTH CAROLINA NEWS ITEMS.:
Congressman Alken has asked con
-ess to appropriate money for a fed.
-al building at Greenwood.
Dr. W. W. Anderson, aged 72. died
;his home in Summerton a few days
io.
The Medical College of South Caro
aa has been admitted to membership
.Class A of the Association of Amer
an Medical Colleges by the execu
ye council of the body. in session at
bicago. The announcement came In
telegram from Dr. Robert Wilson.
High waters have done sedous dam
~e to two bridges in Chester county.
Gov. Manning has appointed Rufus
Johnson of Cold Spring a~s magis
ate for the Sixth judicial district of
dgefieldi connty, to succeed R. L
odie.
Gov. Manning has accepted an in
tation to attend the annual banquet
the Washington Light Infantry- in
larleston on February 22. The gov
-nor will be accompanied by mem
rs of his staff. This will be the
9th aniiiversary 'of the company.
he governor will review the Charles
n militia during the afternoon.
ILL BE AP
-IERE TO H
HARMONY PREVAILS
AT WHITE HOUSE
PREPAREDNESS ADVOCATES NOW
ABLE TO CO-OPERATE IN
THEIR WORK.
HAVE CONFIDENCE IN WILSON
Members for Congression Committees
Agree That Resignation of Garri
son Has Clarified Situation.
Washington.-A new note of har
mony and co-operation on national de
fense problems was struck in the
house military committee as a direct
result of the resignation of Secretary
Garrison of the War Department. It
found expression in the adoption of a
resolution declaring the committee's
appreciation of the confidence Presi
dent Wilson reposed in it and in the
senate committee as disclosed in .his
correspondence with Mr. Garrison.
The non-partisan character of the
feling was emphasized by the fact
that the resolution was offered by
Representative Kahn of California,
.ranking Republican member of the
committee.
Members of both the congressional
committees declared' that the War
Secretary's withdrawal had brought
out sharply the President's desire that
.congress should woxfk out its army
problems in the light of ~its own best
Judgment, despite his personal pref
erence for the continental army
scheme advocated by Mr. Garrison
and the army war college. - The net
result, they agreed was a clarifica
tion of the congressional atmosphere
and the assurance of support for the
bills -that will be drafted from ele
ments of both the Democratic and Re
publican sides that had heretofore
been counted against the measures.
In subs'thnce, it is believed, the bills
will represent an effort to make effec
tive virtually all of the plans of the
war department with the exception
that federalization of the national
guard will be sought as a substitute
for the continental army plan.
Steps toward beginning the drafting
of the measures were taken by both
-house and senate committees. Both
will take up the work Monday and it
is planned to hold. all-day sessions
whenever the business of the two
houses will permit. _
The house committee brought to a
close public hearings on army plans
and ordered anr elaborate indev of the
voluminous 'testimony prepared, so
there would be as little delay as pos
sible either in committee considera
tion or the comfig struggle on the
floor. Similar steps were taken by
the senate committee.
TROUBLE FOR UNCLE SAM.
No Matter Which Way He Decides
Matter He Will Offend.
Washington. - Diplomatic negotia
tions of various characters soon will
confront the United States as the re
sult of the expressed intention of .the
German and Austrian governments to
treat armed merchant ships of the
Entenate Allies as war vessels after
February 29.
Apparently it Is certain If the tem
per of the Allied Governments can be
judged by the feelings of their dip
lomatic representitives here, that any
attempt by the United States to
change the present rule permitting -the
use of American ports by merchant
ships armed for defensive purposes
will be met by a strong protest. Cor
respondence also is likely to follow it!
the United Stauts assumes a position
which coincides with that-of Germany'
and Austria regarding the right of
submarines to sink armed ships with
out warning.
On the other hand, the United
States itself may take the initiativef
should the Entente Allies impose a
virtual boycott..on American ports in
the event of this government decid
ing that armed merchant ships enter
ing Amreican waters are ships of
war, and therefore subject to intern
ment.
No Personal Differences.
New York.--Merely a difference inf
views and not any friction in their.
personal relations led to the sever-*
ande of official r6!ations betw'een Lind
ley M. GarrisoA as secretary of war
and President Wilson, according to
the former cabinet officer. As he and
Mrs. Garrison were leaving the home
of George Leary he was asked if there
were any personal differences. "-Oh,
no,"- he* replied,'"nothing personal at
all. .It is _merely a matter of differ
ence. In views."
No Desire to Humiliate Germany.
Washington.-Secretary Lansing, in
a statement secured here by the
Wolff Bureau, declares that the Uni
ted States has aske3d nothing of Ger
many during the course of the Lusi
tanit negotiations which could not
with honor and dignity be complied
with. The statement was sought as a
reply to an interview with the Ger
man Imperial (-hancellor. which it
wasi contended1 that to mne't the re
guirerwors of th' :-nitedl States woudl
impose an "imp~ossible humiliation"
upon Germanv.
RIL 14th-FII
ELP CELEB
ALFALFA GROWERS
HOLD CONVENTION
ANNUAL SESSION OF YORK COUN
TY ASSOCIATION AT .ROCK
HILL
GOOD SPEECHES ARE HEARD
Work of Body in Trying to Resisi
Doll Weevil is Commended.
Good Reports.
Rock Hill.-The annual meeting o1
the York County Alfalfa Growers' as
socation was held' here, with about
100 farmers and a number of guests
present at the banquet which preceded
the speaking and transaction of bus
iness. Following the course luncheon.
President J. M. Cherry-called the body
to order. Reports~ from the officers
were first heard.
Treasurer W. R. Timmons reported
that the membership gf the' associa
tion is 200 and that its financial con
dition is satisfactory. -
Secretary Charles R. Weeks read a
report filled with interesting and im
portant information. He reported
that members of -the association the
past season bought through the or
ganization's purchasing agent 23,000
pounds of- alfalfa seed and 2,250 tons
of lime. Reports made to the sec
retary by growers showed that the
average price secured for the alfalfa
hay crop of the past year was $20- a
ton. It is estimated that members of
the association have. 2,400 acres in
al'alfa, and It has cost them from
$15 to $45 per acre to secure a good
stand, 'including preparation of the
soil, seed, etc.,
A. G.'Smith of the United States de
partment of agriculture, and - L. A.
Niven, editor of Southern Farming,
were the principal speakers.
Following Mr. Smith's. speech the
association voted unanimously to ask
him to secure from his department a
survey..or investigation of conditions
in this county which will determine
the cost of growing alfalfa.
L. A. Niven of Atlanta, formerly
professor of agriculture in Winthrop
college, who is familiar with alfalfa
growing, in this section, congratulated
the association upon its achievements
in introducing,a new crop. .
Followwing the addresses of the
guests of the occasion, brief speeches
were made -by John T. Roddey, W. F.
Baldwin of Columbia, Alex Williford;
V. Brown McFadden and W. J. Cherry
of the association. Mr. McDonald of
Winnsboro delivered greetings from
intersted alfalfa growers in Fairfield
county; Luther Ellison, secretary of
the Lancaster Chamber of Commerce,
told how farmers in that county are
planning to become alfalfa growers; -
Mr. Kirkpatrick of Mecklenburg- coun
ty, North Carolina, who is a member .
of the York county association, and
Mr. Whitfield' of Nebraska, a visitor >
In the city, made brief talks.
The election-of officers of the _asso
ciation for the ensuing year resulted
in the re-election of the former offi
cers, as follows: President, J. M.I(B
Cherr-y; vice president, T. L. John-t
ston; secretary, C. R. Weeks; treas- A
urer, W. R. Timumons; purchasing era
agent, John A. Black. . - as
H
Revenue Officers Busy. ace
Greenville.-R. Q. Merrick,~ internal Imay
revenue officer with headquarters in keel
Greenville, has with his assistants and
raided 27 illicit distilleries during the SOOX
month of January. Property of the
stills was destroyed in each instance.iE
the total value of this . property*
amounting to a considerable figure. call
n addition to breaking up the outfits, the
tosnsof gallons of beer or lqo a
In the making were poured -ut by the te
officers. It
sert
Lightning Kills Negro. the
Wedgefield.-A storm of unusual In- ing
tensity passed over this section re -are
cently. The lightning at tires re- era
minded one of summer. The house ent.
f Damon Williams, a negro, was tres
struck. His olidest boy was killed in- cauf
stantly and thre'e others stunned, but
they recovered. vs
Chesterfield Secures Agent. Seld
Chesterfield.-Another long stride F
n the path of progress was made
when Chesterfield county secured the
services of a home demonstration (Br
gent. This office has recently been I
reated, and the services of Miss Stella sell
Mins of Blackville have been secured. rece
Miss Mins comes well prepared for the
er work. She has worked with Mrs. the
Walker. and is familiar with the work I
rom a practical standpoint. Miss equt
Mins, in addition to being a teacher of tiliz:
experience, is also a good farmer. bala
live
Night School is Success. 'age
Norway.-Henry Watson of Dillon If
ounty is principal of the Bethel need
school between Norway and Cope. shot
This young man some months ago will
pened a night school for those who to j1
:ould not read and write. He has effet
large class of men, some of them:
between 60 and 70 years of age. No
tuition i~ charged. Watson walks TI
early two miles at night to meet this tral
lass and ':emains until 11 o'clock- HW com
was r..pri.-e.d to :nd so many men muc
who could not read, or sign thei; cry
ames. dl
LD DAY. W
RATE THIS G
A Distinctive Reason.
What is the chief reason for the superi'
ority of Royal Baking Powder? -
There are several good reasons, but there
is one which distinguishes Royal from other
baking powders.
This reason, which.every woman should
know, is that Royal Baking Powder isrwad
from cream of tartar, which comes from
grapes. This means a healthful fruit origin.
It means natural food as distinguished from
mineral substitutes used .in other b
powders.
There is no alum nor phosphate: irRoyal
Baking Powder. -
ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO.
New York
INOCULATION AS CHOLERA PROTECTION
ijcinng Sru. -.
?f. :..,
R. R.H. WT.T-Tfs,{n{ma u s a e thatia.e
man,.,} J, " :":"r } U ivrsit of:; A z Ag" J rYi -t r te yb c m
atectin s'ginst c nlera tin.g blefrdm. gsi ecno
DR.olera haMs.nmalea men- te nds the hs w place.
iotn Uneeraded f Arareikentreawd cens becoe ifeted otheric
aut Exinttion.)wlla casibesndesrobl ptge .mmunbroU
hery como .n .. j thehgcholera ible "engh
oI thregla wher hogsu a Weti e Wheregit -'ot e rta t d a
ined.Thee arentwmhd cholera.' .bl for datally in he .di~tye Ic1,fO
plg hser um, bee gre en- ther itdisssetedw lace the 8
othe o nuty hsdsae simultaneous tehdadra eo etbmsedt oitsnl
her te dredei care simn.- miecs oe hgarm the other af&
out ineton sl wever as posble treatens ropgmmnde.ro ThA
there us hom cholera sfeex- asit era injcing a suferbelenth.0
eafhos heai the disesgtswtit.of timetossibl, fnor life.bodofte
nss of eecting whreventivae an-Whrenei' nt ctemimne
tasd her ase livin methos oera Istactualyof he Tisitb
ppig he sedrpidlyh oer-cok- wherd e on i y autrineda ter duna6
ithe' mlaneouin metehog an hand thcoe sumblishl cost abou
tuher te revete th schol- mies fre 'anaveag siz 'pig,
ous smeo souldeer deae ses- treatmen wil recomene.th hi -61
In asuc welas the liingltaneus ofromatak cholera. To hise k
hogn choleremeraly nerob- shod mube epeya tred ternda
eIt introduces the disease to a that time.
AKE TO SELL HAY CROP GOOD TIME TO.PRUNE TR $
nm That i ice Received Equis WIuch Depends Upon Object Sotg~
eing and Fertilizing Valuef Age oft Tesand convenience la'
Fed at Home. i Performing the Wok
L. JORDAN. Louisiana University ItIafc'tatrespidii
Experiment Station.)
s a mista~ke for our farmers to Tn r oelkl ostfu~3a
teir hay crop unless the prices fpue nsrn rwne;a~
ed are such as to cover both ~onszaoi ueha
feding and fertilizing value of uklthnwemaeial
y if fed at home. srn.O h te ad t s
sseldom that the price received atta otfresadocad~'
sboth these values, and the fer- asaetobs nJn wt t~
nvalue, at least, is lost. A well- ~okt tedt rnn;as ~
ed farm should carry enough nr ifcl opuei ue ~
tock to consume all the rough- asthlev cerheres
d grain the farm can produce. inefrmoerlsswt pdai
ore hay is produced than is okItialoafcthtn6*?
ed at home. then only the best cuewl pl oalcss
ld be toid. as the inferior grades I amro ri rwr-pt,
ot bring enough on the marketwodgotInayu'orhd.ro
stify selling, but will have a badyonshdtreewilgtt
Son he maret.tqickl by dactg thitts prun ed
__________prudi springas ifrh wantser
Oco DaryCominai~. ~ ronsme eforaJune ofeaui
. ua prpoe OWandth cn-licwllyin that whenemadenins
zedcremey mke god airisopring at the qutio hnd i at
)intio- Te cw on' cae hw ay, there msfarmw:est nd.
Scramhe ive andthecrem-rn trate-detpning; po h
lont cre ow fte th cram jet:augse the e ae of the tres
ered. onvenience in d ong'rhe r or.
EyHO EnT saE E e ilg.t
RntemAT OiCklybyION. ru
