THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX NO. 2S5.
HAHHE, VKKMOXT, WEDNESDAY, FEHKUAKY 10, 1910.
P1UCE,
OXE CEXT.
EZERUM FALLS
BEFORE ATTACK
OF RUSSIANS
Principal Turkish Strong
hold in the East Has een
the Objective of Repeated
Assaults, and Reuter'
Despatch Announces Its
Capture To-day
BRITISH FAIL TO TAKE
THEIR LOST TRENCHES
Berlin Also Announces That
French Attempts to Re
capture Lost Ground to
Northwest of Tahure in
Champagne Were Fruit
less, but the French Tell
of Success
London, Feb. 16. Reuter's Petrogtad
correspondent telegraphs that Ezerum
has been captured by the Russians.
Berlin, via London, Feb. 16. Three at
tacks by the British in efforts to recover
trenches southeast of Ypres, Belgium,
which they lost to the Germans, were
announced at army headquarters to-day.
All the attacks were declared fruitless,
as were those of the French in attempts
to regain the ground lost northwest of
Tahure in the Champagne district.
Rainy weather is hindering fighting ac
tivities in the western arena, while driv
ing snow is reported along the whole
eastern front and nothing of importance
has occurred there, the statement adds.
Paris, via London, Feb. 16. The war
office this afternoon said there were no
important events last night. "In Cham
pagne we recaptured by means of at
tacks with hand grenades certain trench
sections to the east of the road from Ta
hure to Sorrrme."
ruent on the whole front of the Ypres
salient to tho amith of llooge, the enemy
mucin several inlantry attack. ,
"Between the Ypre Comines canal and
the Ypres Comines railway the enemy
broke into our front trench on a front
of alsmt fHKl )-ar.ln. All his other at
tack failed.
"A heavy bombardment on both sides
continues."
$139,188 WAS BID
FOR STATE BUILDING
MUNITIONS SHIPS
BURNED AT SEA
Great Loss Sustained at Brooklyn Where
Shells Were Being Loaded for the
Entente Allies Two Lives
Are Reported Lost.
i New York, Feb. lfi. The steamships
Bolton. Castle and Pacific and the nine
hundred foot pier beloninjr to the New
oi k Dock company, at the foot of Pio
neer Btreet in Brooklyn, were destroyed
bv lire early this morning. Another
steamer, the Palladia, was badly dam
aged and about twenty-five scows and
lighters were partly or wholly burned.
Two coolies are missing, and the loss is
estimated at considerably more than $
1)00,000.
The origin of the fire is not known,
lint suspicions of incendiarism were
aroused because some of the steamers
were loading war munitions, part of
which was for Russia. The burned pier
is also believed to have been filled with
merchandise, including munitions. Tho
lire started in a building on the pier.
TEUTONIC PLOT
IS SUSPECTED
IN TORONTO FIRE
American Club, in 'Which There Have
Been Recent Demonstrations in Favor
of Entente Allies and Where "Amer
ican Legion" Was Started, Was
Destroyed and Man Was Killed.
Toronto, Feb. 161. One man was killed
and two were injured in a fire which
early to-day wrecked the six-story home
of the American club. Several explosions
were heard while the fire was burning,
and the early unconrrnicd reports were
that the blaze was the result of an alien
military plot, the American club having
been the scene of recent demonstrations
in favor of the entente pllies. The 97th
overseas regiment, popularly known as
the "American Legion,' had its birth
there.
The dead man is believed to be P. P.
Hiirston uf Dallas, Tex. The property
lo;.s is Joo.OtlO.
George T. Kelly of Yonkers, N. Y., Was
Lowest Bidder for Contract at
Montpelier Contract Was
Not Awarded.
With a bid of $i:ifUS8 as the price for
the erection of the building complete,
George T. Kelly of Yonkers, N. X ., was
the lowest of 'l bidders whose proposals
on the state building to 1m constructed
at .Montpelier for the uc of the state li
brary, supreme court and historical so-
ietv. were opened yesterday afternoon
in the supreme court room at the Mute
House by the building commission. 'I he
bids were opened by Secretary 11. F. Gra
ham of the commission and the only
other members present were Levi I .
Smith of rturlington, representing his fa
ther, C. P. Smith, and cx-Gov. XV. V.
s'ticknev.
The lowest bid on tho electric work
was submitted bv the Lord Flectrie Co.
of Boston, $3,900, and the lowest on
steam lifting by the Isaac Coffin Co.,
Boston, .SS.OtiO.
The commission opened and read the
bids before tho represVntaives of the con
tracting firms present but made no do-
ision or comment. The commission re
serves the right to reject any and all
bids and it is onlv reasonable to assume
will take advantage of that privilege
and change'the specifications and adver
tise for new bids inasmuch as the pres
ent bids total more than the appropria
tion made by the legislature of $150,000.
The bids for the building complete, ex
cepting the wainscot and extra finish
ork. the ornamental plaster work and
le extra terazzo and marble work, were
as follows: F.. T. Abbott Co., New York
City, $1.10,000; Booth Bros. A Hurricane
Isle Granite Co., New York City, $171,-
040; .Tames E. I ashman, Burlington
$I",r04.70; H. P. Cuminings Co., Woods
ville, . H., $l.r.:2,0O0; C. A. Dodge Co.
Cambridge, .Mass., 147.711; W. If. Fis-
sell i Co., New York City, $140,600; R
. Howes Construction Co.. Boston. $140,-
000; George T. Kelly, Yonkers, N. .
$130,488; the Kieslicii Construction Co.,
Burlington, $152,042; If. Wales Lines Co.,
Meridon. Conn., $151,887; George Baker
Long, Worcester, Mass., $147.l-iO; Ed-
ard F. Miner Building to.. Worcester,
Mass.. $145,819; the John Nelson Con
stniction Co., Montpelier, $140,852; O. S.
Nichols, Essex Junction, $140.50!); the
Xonfoss Bros. Co., Boston, - $108,500;
Daniel R. Shcpard, Boston. $159,741; Wr.
Slielton Swallow Co., New York City,
149,437; S. P. Troy Co., Boston. $149.
998; Vermont Construction Co., Burling
ton. $151,900; W'. A. Wentworth Co.,
Boston, $156,975; I. F. Woodburv Sons'
Co.. Boston. $149,765.
The following are the bids for the wir
ing: Barnes Pope Co., Boston, $4,871;
the Barre Kleetrie Co., Barre. $4,384;
Brown & Robcy, Burlington, $0,875; Carlisle-Connor
Co., Boston. $4,875; T. J.
Kelly 4 Co.. Boston. $4,690; E. C. Lewis,
Boston, $5,388; Lord Electric Co., Boston,
$3,990; Nichols Sl Warren Electric Co.,
Bennington, $4,144.
The bids for steam-fitting were as fol
lows: G. S. Blodgett Co., Burlington,
$9,314.83; Allan Calhoun, Middleburv,
$10,217; Cleghorn Co., Boston, $10,975;
Isaac Coffin Co., Boston, $8,909; Ingalls j
&, Kendricken, Inc., Boston, $10,437;
Lynch & Woodward. Boston, $9,420; M.
McC'arty & Sons, Poultney, $11,485; Peck
Bros.. Montpelier. $9,732; T. A. Ridder A,
Co., Boston, $10,300; Wftlworth-English-Flctt
Co., Boston, $0,.i0.
AGREEMENT
WITH GERMANY
GOES TO WILSON
Secretary of State Lansing
Seems to Be Satisfied with
Reply Received from Ber
lin in the Negotiations
Over the Lusitania Case
CONCLUDE SESSIONS IN BARRE.
CHANGES SUGGESTED
ARE NOW EMBODIED
sented the Latest Draft of
Agreement to Secretary
Lansing To-day, and They
Remained in Conference
Only Ten Minutes
QUARRELS WITH WIFE,
SLASHES HIS THROAT
Wallace Peters of Rutland Made Wound
Sufficient to Need 14 Stitches, But
He Will Recover.
Rutland, Feb. 16. Bleeding profuse
ly from a self-inflicted razor slash across
his throat, Wallace Peters, recently a lo
cal hack driver, and a former resident of
Mendon, was. found in the office of Dr.
Bradford C. Powers on Center street at
5:30 o'clock
St. Johnsbury Methodirt District Preach
- en Return Home
Preachers and laity of the St. Johns
bury Methodist district, who have been
holding their mid-winter sessions in the
Hedding Methodist church since Monday
evening, adjourned at noon to-day after
most helpful gathrrin;;. Throughout
the morning and afternoon anil evening
meetings much interest has been man!
fested in the program and papers dealing
with a number of church and Sunday
school problems were of uniform excel
lence. Several of the clergymen went
from Barre to .Montpelier seminary this
afternoon, there to attend a conference
which has for its prune object the for
mation of plans for a mid-winter insti
tute in 1917. the institute to embrace
clergymen and lav members in the St
Johnsbury, Montpelier and St. Albans
Methodist districts
Itev. F. XV. Lewis of Groton had charge
of the closing scss'on to-day. I nfore
seen circumstances combined to make
imperative a radical Change in the pro
gram, but the substitutions were well
chosen and the forenoon conference was
.. .. t...:ii..i ... ,.r
, , - y-. puiir n iiiniiili nn anj ui mn ieviuun
VUUIIL VUII uerilSLUIU ri tr- Utcss ion a. Rev. E. XV. Eturtevant of New
burr opened the service with devotionals
at 0 o clock and Rev, I. A. Ranney of
Barton followed with a strong paper on
"The Church and 1 1.0 War Distracted
World." Owing to tlw absence of some
of the clergymen, it wis found necessary
to alter a symposium on the next gen
eral conference. However, Rev. R. H.
Moore of Lyndonville spoke interesting
ly on "The Election of Race Bishops,"
and iiev, 11. E, Howard of Waits River
gave a paper on "A I'n'ted Methodism."
In the absence of the district superin
tendent. Rev. R. F. Lowe, who was called
out of the city, a letter was read in
which Mr. Lowe repli 'd to a voung man's
queries as to the oppoitunities for min
isterial service in erniont. Mr. Lowe
wrote characteristically on the topic,
"The Advantages and Opportunity of a
Country Pastorate." lime allotted on
the program to Rev. O. .1. Anderson of
Derbv and Rev. C. I). Pierce of Crafts-
bury was given to Dr. W. J. Atkinson of
Derry, N. H., a superintendent of Pun-
lay school work in New Ihunpshire and
Vermont, who spoke on Sunday schools.
Prohibition Law Discussed.
The chief topic of disillusion last even
ing was the new prohibition law which
is to be voted on by the citizens of Ver
mont next March. l!ev. K. F. XewHl
read the statement by Gov. C. XV. Gates
which amies red in yesterday s Times
and followed this up with a letter from
ex Congressman Frank Plumlev of
Xorthfield dealing with 'The Temper
ance Issues at Stake Nc:;t March." The
letter pointed out the (iifl'cient attitudes
of the east anil west side of the state
on the subject and finished with A copy
of the law and the emanation of exact-
what the law m.'a.ts as understood bv
Mr. Plumlev. According to this explana
tion the new law would leave thing in
exactly the same conditions throughout
the state as those which now exist in
e towns where local option exists but
which are dry towns; that is, the sale
f liquor will bo forbidden and the bring
ing of it into the statu for purposes of
sale forbidden, but ther? will be no re
strict ion on the. use of liounr for private
onsunipf ion or on its tee by physicians
as a medicine. Believing this law to be
a good one, the congressman urges its
adoption
Following the rending of the letter
Rev. R. F. Lowe, w h,i piesided at the
meeting, called on Dr. J. W. Hatch, prin
cipal of Montpelier seminary, for a few-
remarks in regard to the statements
made by E. L. Hanson in the recent joint
eiehate held at the opera house. Dr
Hatch very frankly described Mr. Han
son as "a man repudiated by his state
and by his party" nnd as a man for
whom he personally had no respect. Ho
denied Mr. Hanson's alleged statement
that Maine is a "rum-soaked" state and
claims that there is more violation of
the local option laws in certain cities in
Massachusetts than there is of the pro
hibition law in the :tate of Maine.
Rev. G. A. Martin of St. Johnsbury
was the next speaker. He pointed out
that temperance is not fundamentally a
political or an economic question or a
question of physiology but a moral ques
tion to be settled on a moral basis. He
showed, however, that from the econom
ic standpoint the consumption of liquor is
bad in that it lessens Cie efficiency of the
user, and from the standpoint" of the
physiological effects that it is detrimen-
Washington, D. C, Feb. 16. Count Von
Bernstorff, the German ambassador, to
day presented to Secretary Lansing the
latest draft of the Lusitania agreement,
embodying the changes suggested by the
American government and also
change suggested by Berlin. Indications
were that the agreement in its present
form will probably be acceptable to the
United States.
Von Bernstorff remained with Lansing
less than 10 minutes after the conference.
Neither party would make any state
ment, but it is understood that Von
Bernstorff was informed that the draft
could not be accepted as final until it had
been submitted to President Wilson. The
indications were that it seemed satusfac
tory to Secretary Lansing.
Berlin, via London. Feb. 11. Ger
many's reply to the American govorn
menfs latent representations regarding
the sinking of the steamer Lusitania was
forwarded to Washington yesterday.
The report accepts , one of the two
changes suggested by Secutary of State
lansing, but proposes t. new wording
for the other.
Washington, Feb. l'l. Germany is un
derstood to have agreed to the sugges
tion of the United S;it"S that she sub
stitute the words "reeoyrdze liability"
for the words "assumes liability" in the
tentative draft of the communication de
signed to settle the Lusitania case. The
revised draft was received here late last
night from Berlin. y
Several other changes desired bv the
United States and described as lieing of
minor importance also arc said to have
been made. In one instance, however.
Germany is understood to have proposed
a change in the language suggested by
the American government.
$2,000,000 LOSS
AS FIRE RAGED
IN FALL RIVER
A Score of Buildings in the
Business Portion of the
City Were Destroyed, but
There Was No Loss of Life
Early This Morning
HELP WAS CALLED
FROM OTHER CITIES
Flames Were Checked at the
Edge of Wooden Tene
ment District, and Occu
pants of the Latter Were
Driven into the Street
TALK OF THE TOWN
Special business meeting Thursday
night after tho prayer meeting at the
Baptist church to hear the report, of the
pulpit committee. A large attendance' is
desired.
Barre friends of Dr. Bancroft of South
Barre will be interested to learn that he
is recovering from a serious illness. Mem
Iiers of Dr. Bancroft's family are now
detained at home bv illness.
Rev. and Mrs. F. L. Abbott of Henni-
ker, N. H., arrived in tho city to-day to
participate in a series of evangelical
meetings. Rev. Mr. Ablxitt was former
ly connected with a mission in Barre.
Several young ladies, all pupils of Miss
Bessie Spear, met at her home last even
. jwntio uu v.,.,, i juti-i m, rsessie ipear, mei hi ner uome last even- 4 ,, ,,,, T, , . , .,
c yesterday afternoon winding to organic a club,, the object of J ' " 'kr. the
returned to his office after which is to promote increasing knowl- k.:?. 7 Unj
i. n- vi,-M uui in iiiu community ami
.1.- .1 A
me uuciaii iFLiuiieu iu ms omce alter i w lncli is to promote increasing
making a call, fourteen sitches wereiedne and appreciation of music. In I
required to close the gash. Marital in-'brief business meeting, the name. "Chro
felicity is supposed to have prompted' matic club" was chosen, "and the follow
Peters to attempt his own life. Hewill-ing officers were unanimously elected:
be arraigned in police court on a charge President, Miss Isoliel (Ml; secretary
of assaulting his wife yesterday after
noon.
treasurer, Miss Edna Mahnqiiist; pro
gram committee, Miss Anna Roliertson
Fall River, Mass., Feb. 16. Fire which
swept through a portion of the business
district of this city early this morning,
burning a score of buildings, including
an apartment hotel and several of the
ity's largest retail establishments,
caused a loss of approximately $2,(MH),
000, according to the estimates of pn
erty owners and store proprietors to
day. There was no loss of life although
there were many narrow escapes.
After nearly three hours' fight the local
firemen, with the assistance of firemen
from other cities, checked the flames on
the edge of a wooden tenement district
which for a time was seriously menaced
The occupants of these houses fled to
the snow-covered streets with little cloth
ing and were cared for in churches, pub
lie buddings and private homes.
The flames originated in the basement
of a four-story brick building at the cor
ner of South Main and Spring streets
occupied by the Steiger company as
department store, but the cause of the
fire has not been ascertained. The flames
swept rapidly south along Main street
to Columbia street, taking small build
ings on both sides of the street and go
ing up Spring street. The Lennox hotel
an apartment structure, was direttly
across the street from the Steiger sfore
and the guests in the hotel escaped
through the rear doors and windows as
the front of the building was burning,
During the height of the conflagration
help tvas summoned from Newport
Taunton and New Bedford. The fire was
the most disastrous in the history of
the city.
ALARM IN BOSTON.
Fire Causes Four Alarms to Be Sounded
This Morning.
Boston, Feb. 16. The greater part of
the fire department was called out by
four alarms early to-day to fight a blaze
in the midst of a nest of wooden build
ings' in the Mount Pleasant section of
the Roxbury district.
the fire originated in a four-story
brick building that was being remodeled.
The losrer floor was occupied by E. G.
Fennessv. a steam fitter, and the upper
floors were unoccupied. The building was
badly damaged and the flames for ft
while threatened to sweep through the
closely built-up neighborhood. Snow-
covered roofs helped the firemen in their
fight to keep the fire from spreading so
riouslv.
FILL VACANCY
ON CIVIL BOARD
Fred W. Suitor Takes Tlace of Richard
Ciardi, Who Resigned Be
cause III.
A vacancy on the board of civil au
thority was filled at the regular meeting
of the board of aldermen last evening
when the mayor's appointment of Fred
W. Suitor to succeed Richard t lardi, re
signed, on the board that is to rovise the
checklist for the Mar.di elections, was
approved unanimously. Mr. Ciardi s res
ignation, offered on the ground that im
paired health will prevent him from serv
ing on the board, carried with it tne sug
gestion that the selection of his successor
1m made from a list of three names en
dorsed by the Socialist party. The three
names w:ere: John T. Callaghan, Gilbert
Phillips and Mr. Suitor. By virtue of
his appointment, Mr. Suitor will deliber
ate with the board of civil authority
when it starts to tinker up the checklist
next week. A part of his heritage from
Mr. Ciardi is the honor of being the only
Socialist member on the board.
Bereft for the time-being of two mem
bers, the aldermen spent an hour over
routine affairs and then went into ex
ecutive session. Alderman Healy of the
second ward is under restraint at tho
doctor's order as the result of an injured
knee-can. and Alderman Shiirtleff. who
is usually on hand before the clerk has
begun to sharpen his pencil, was de
tained at home by a severe cold. Neith
er of the two bailiwick representatives
expects to be absent for long.
Dr. Stewart s January report referred
to 20 deaths, due, then, to homicide 1,
suicide 1, apoplexy 1, bronchitis 1, can
cer 1, consumption 3, disease of the
heart 1, disease of the kidneys 3, inani
tion 1. influenza 2, pneumonia 3, prema
ture birth 1, and hemorrhage 1. In the
birth statistics the balance between
males and females was nicely preserved,
there being 10 each. Of contagious dis
eases reported there were 10 cases, seven
being scarlet fever, two chicken-pox, and
one typhoid fever. Nineteen burial per
mits were issued. The report was ac
cepted, as was the January financial
statement of the water superintendent.
Overseer W. J. Clapp, in his report to
the aldermen covering poor department
affairs in December, stated that a bal
ance of $1.00 was on hand at the begin
ning of the month. There was an appro
priation of $700 and the sum of $720.84
was disbursed for Jie support of the
poor, as shown by the vouchers, leaving
an overdraft of '$18.88. The sum of
$31.45 was received from different per
sons and turned over to the city treas
urer. The report was accepted.
Slate Forester A. F. Hawes addressed
a communication to the city stating that
the time is now ripe for towns and cities
to pave the way for school forests. He
referred to a legislative enactment ex
empting reforested lands for school pur
poses from taxation and suggested that
Barre, in common with other communi
ties, might do well to accept a gift from
someone and devote the income from its
wooded areas in later years to school
purposes. Members of the board inti
mated that the opportunities for refor
esting lands within the city limits are
pretty scarce, while land outside the city
devoted to that purpose woitld be subject
to taxation. The state forester's letter
was referred to the mayor.
Chief Sinclair of the police department
renewed ft discarded practice of submit
ting a monthlv report from the police de
partment, which was read and approved
for ftling. Iwcntv nrrests were made
on the following allegations in January
Intoxication lfl, selling liquor illegally 2,
search and seizure 2, breach of the peace
MARR& GORDON
QUARRY SOLD
Part of Consolidated Quarry
Co.'s Holdings Bought by
Wetmore & Morse
PRICE SAID T'x,- .
AV - $125,000
The Wet .ore & Morse Co,
Thereby Secure Valuable
Addition to Their Quarry
Deeds have been filed at the town
clerk's office in Barre Town showing tho
transfer of the Marr & Gordon- quarry of
the Consolidated Quarry company
holdings to the Wetmore & Morse Gran
ite Co., which owns a large and valuablo
quarry next adjoining. Tho negotiations
for the same were concluded yesterday
and the deeds were filed last night. It is
understood that tho price paid was in tha
vicinity of $125,000.
The purchase of the Marr & Gordon
quarry gives the Wetmore & Morse con
cern an important addition to its prop
erty on Millstone hill. The new acquisi
tion is located next adjoining their own
quarry and thus it will be possible to
work both to good advantage. The gran
ite is similar, being. of the well known
"Barre light" stock. Wlieji seen to-day
concerning tho purchase. President Frank
M. Corry of the W etmore & Morse com
pany had little to say except that tho
.Marr & Gordon quarry will be operated
in conjunction with their previous hold
ings. The Marr & Gordon quarry is one of a
number of quarries which were consoli
dated some years ago under the name of
the Consolidated Quarry company, tho
late John XV. McDonald being one of tho
promoters of the new concern as well as
its president, once the organization was
completed.
The sale of this quarry makes the sec
ond transfer of importance in the Barr
granite belt within a few weeks, tho
other having been the purchase of one
half interest in the E. L. Smith & Co.
properties by- H. Nelson Jackson of Bur
lington and 8. Hollister Jackson of Barre.
The greater part of the holdings of tho
Consolidated Quarry company remains
in that company's possession and, it is
understood, will be operated as usual bv
that company. ,
APATHY IN BARRE POLITICS.
Caucus a Day Off and TheTe Is Very Lit
tle Aclivit.
TAKES BARRE POSITION.
will not of his own accord stop the sale
-fV . . . . .. 1 .
oi nquor to rmys or to Habitual drunk
ards. It takes boys to run the saloon,"
said Pr. Martin, and he ued this as one
of his strongest points again it. Ife de
nied that the saloon en lie reuulated
... l:l - .I... ....!.. . .
It appears that Peters lost his nerve and Miss Lillian Geske. After the busi- I " ' "J" V n-miion cannot he
.r...., , I,,; 1,1,11111111
immediately after he started to carry out , ness meeting,
hig suicidal
Mrs. James
street. The
ered althoiigl
and the man
blood while making his way to Dr. Pow
ers' office for treatment.
When Dr. Powers had dressed the
wound the injured man told him that he
musical stunts" formed
intention at the home or, the principal diversion of the evening,' i. . 4, , , . .7'- ,
Foley of No; 45 Washington j the Ur the funniest and J, ww h h Slo 4ota
jugular vein was not sev- (original performance being awarded to , ,:ii , -
. several veins had been cut I Miss (iall, and the consolation prize to : ; " .V. , . ,,rcaPm',Hl -"'
must have lost, eonsulerah le P.,Kr...n I ... . .-..,..,,,1 n, ln.
stitution to unmake men' and made an
Devotees of skating participated in a; earnest plea for its n'motion by the
most enjoyable costume carnival at the
Pearl street rink last evening and a large
RRITISH LOST 600
YARDS OF TRENCHES
Germans Claim That c'JO Yards Were
Captured in Heavy Avuult and "One
Officer and Several Doten Men
Were Made Prisoners."
Ixtndon. Feb. lrt. A heavy battle,
brought on by a German atsault amith
west of Ypres. has resulted in the cap
ture of a third of a mile of the P.rltish
front line.
The liermsn official -. mnt reads:
"Southeast of Ypres, atter heavy artil
lery bombard merits by way of prepara
tion, our troop raptured s.'mr S yards I
tf Pritis'i portion. A Bisjonty of the
wa going to Mendon. It was learned iy ., ., ........ ., ,t , ,
at imlicft hea.loiiarters. however, that I'e- i"" lm ''"... i . ... inr -piwir,
adoption of the prohibition la
w.
40 HURT IN RIOT.
j Freight Handlers and Strike Breakers
I Clash at New London.
New lyimlon. Conn., Feb. Ifl. a re
sult of a battle lietween striking freight 'oversight of operations at the quarries.
Allan W. Reid to Manage Office of Stand
ard Granite Co.
Allan W.Ileid, who for the past six vears
has been in the employ of the Vermont
Marble Co.. much of tho time as building
salesman for the company's Cleveland, ().,
office, has taken charge of the downtow n
office of the Standard Granite Co. in the
Aldrich building. Mr. Reid will devote
his whole time to the affairs of the office,
while Douglas M. Barclay, of Barclay
Bros., who has been dividing his time be
tween the office and the company's quar
ries in Graniteville, will give more of his
attention to the quarrying end of the
business. The demand for the Standard
company's medium and light stock has
grown rapidly in recent years and the
establishment of an office in the business
section ia calculated to facilitate greatly
the handling of local and outside orders.
The business association that has ex
isted between Barclav Bros and the
Standard Granite Co. since the manufac
turing concern was founded will be con
tinued, although the latter company will
have at its disposal the services of an ex
perienced stoneman who ran give his
whole time to the Barre office, thus en
abling Mr. Barclay to resume bis former
On the favorable report of the building
inspector permits w-e granted in the
following cases: J. B. Sanguinetti, to
erect a stoneshed annex in Burnham's
meadow; J. O. Bihxlcan. to erect stone
shed additions near Center street; A. B.
I.ane, to erect a garage on Highland ave
nue. A resolution appropriating $4,000
to the street department was read for
the second tune and adopted. Action on
the suggestion that the citv lie repre
sented at the America.! Good Roads con
ference in Pittsburg, Pa., late in Febru
ary was deferred until the next meeting.
Warrants were approved for payment
in the following order: Street depart
ment payroll, $104.57, water department
payroll, $.10.7,; fire department payroll,
.?80..-i6; police department payroll. $S8.i0;
G. A. Beniis, $14, services as janitor; W.
B. Marrion, $20.20. D. J. Sullivan, $20.80,
William Stephen, $26.80, services as auditors.
YEAR SHORT OF CENTURY.
letail work at the oiTioc bv Miss Sophia
Rossi.
BURIAL AT HOPE CEMETERY.
i: I i r . u t a
j, i iv... D.. i .:-. i ii iis.vn writ- MTiur-u luuuHii: ih."i
ii i b linn it-T-n r ii ai it i nig mm iu . i . .
Powers' office at the Rutland Railroad. I tiimea lady and gent . man, (.eorge
Light and Power company's car barn on i t1,I" '"' V!" Mi,rtl a Rl"1' ,,ox '
South Main street, where a brother is AH chelates; sfoond pr.e, J.
I (tkecfe and lady; ilrst pne in the la-
Armed with a warrant sworn out by " .,., .iioir. c,.,, i,HIi,,rs ,! Urike break. rs at the I The Standard Granite Co. has leasvd at
Peters' wife and issued by lirand Juror P. nn.er oi . loutpi-ncr; nrst fr.ht wharf of the tVntral Vermont tractive office quarters in the Aldrich
,,I1I A.T, ICharles E. Novak, charging Peters with"'r'r ' V. , J "' ""-"'""i railway, in East New London, vesterdar , Mock. Mr. Reid will 1 assisted in the
'V U 1 11 vvi a a 1W..O breach of the peace bv wav of assault I. , , ",' . 1 . "!"' alKmt 4ii men were injured. Eleven are
on Mrs. Peters, Officers Martin Kennedy !.M,M lr."ne I-,1- r-V '?" MMfr U ' the hospital.
and Timothy Dwver went to the car'11"" ' ie aw.r.is were The strikers atti.ked the strike-break-
barn. They found Peters with his throat ni"'J" ,n t'"' f,"",n f " '' '"'ry pack- !, 1(, ,ov w ,.ro r. turning from d,n
bandaged. asleep in a -ar and placed him j'-"- j ner w ith rlulw and tone. Two police-
under arrest. He. spent the night in a i At the close of the St. Johnhurr di- ' nu'" ,,n duty at the wharf sii'i-ec.lcd.
cell at police headquarter. jtrict preachers' confercnif at the" lied- after a time, by tiring their revolvers
Peters' prompt action in seeking thejding Methodist church to day, Kev. E. air in cow ing the lw llig. renta. I
aid of a phvsii-ian probably saved his j K. Newell and several of the visiting inforcements ere sent from H.Ii,-r bead
life, as it is probable that he wouM have ! clergymen went to Montr li'T seminary, quarters to the scene, pyrry available
bled to d.-ath without surgical atten-t where they participated in a rleriial eon-. ,nn bring called on fur that purpose,
tion. As it is. however, a sar reaching ference to which representation from! 1 .
almost trom ear to ear will lie fir only three erneint Mcthitdift district were) FIXD 0UIJN IN ST ALBANS f "range
reminder he will have in time to come i invited. Tentative plans were to lw di-
of nil narrow c, ape irom
grave.
. ' ter Jot the l-rneftt of younger clergymen
A special mite hot meeting f,r the!anJ uiig iavnien of tiir or-nfer rwe. It
Funeral of Mrs. Annie E. Bill Held Tues
day Afternoon.
The funeral of Mr. Annie E. Bill, wife
of the Inte Edward II. Bill of Montreal,
I (J w liofc dpath wilrrst,t at 1ia hfm
lof ber daughter. Mr. James Robertson j death of Mr. t.uild in 17 she moved to
'of 123 I "range street. Sunday morning. Alstead. w here she engL'e.1 in the tailor's
But Mrs. Sibcl Guild of Bellows Falls Is
Very Wll.
Bellows Falls, Feb. lfi. Mrs. Sibel
Huntoon Proutv Guild, the oldest woman
northern Windham county and per-
hapa the oldest woman in the county, ob
served the 00th anniversary of her birth
yesterday in the homo of her nephew.
Harley J. Huntoon, at 16 Atkinson
street.
Mrs. Guild was in good health up to a
week before Christmas when she had a
brief illness. Since that time she has
not been in good heaU'i. When a press
representative called upon her yesterday
she received him rordiallv and said that
when she was as young . he she never
expected to reach her le'th milestone.
The venerable woman was born in
1'nity, X. 1L, Feb. 1.1. !J7. the oldest of
seven children of Ieirjel and (Sibel)
Palmer Huntoon. Alter l.er graduation
from the Chester seiniratv sh taught
school in Langdon. t'harlestown and Ac
worth, X. II. When she first began
teaching she received S I-.'! cents a week,
but did not have to pay lor her tsianl as
she "lioarded round-' with the pupils.
I-ater she received S2 a veek, which was
regarded as large pay for a woman to
rw-eive at that time. She learned the
tailor trade and in !!! ' married to
losiah Prouty. They hved in Boston
five vears and then returned to Bellows
Falls.
Her second bu-l-and was Hufii Guild
to whom she was married in Jh.i1. They
lived in Bellow tall. hollowing the
Whether or not the apathy that has
hung over the political situation in Harro
this year will spread to the citizens' cau
cus at the opera house Thursday evening;
is a question to be answered by timo
alone, but the fact remains that the at
titude of unconcern which existed two
weeks ago has not disappeared and for
tho first time in a number of years tho
eve of the caucus is reached with scarce
ly an outward indication that anyone is
seeking office or has the least desire to be
honored by the electorate. Apathetic, at
tempts to start the political pot a-sim-
mering a fortnight ago did not get very
far, although a tew possible candidacies,
fewer than usual, wer.; broached.
It is known that Mnvor Iingley is
willing to go before the voters for a sec
ond term and his name will probably bo
presented to-morrow night. Former Al-
lerman Harry C. Patterson stated to-dav
that he will not be a candidate for tho '
mayoralty at the caucus unless some
thing should develop rver night and to
morrow. Yet there re.tiains a sort of a
mentioning" candidacy connected with
Mr. Patterson's name that cannot be de
scribed as quiescent. James Mackav's
name will be presented again for the of
fices of city clerk and treasurer. George
Morris will let his name go before the
voters as a candidate for the office of
constable and tax collector and no real
opposition to George Parks' denomination
as second constable has developed. No
one has been interested enough, it seems,
to speculate on the nomination of candi
dates for the French's Harre library di
rectorate, the auditorships and the as-
sessorship.
Ward nominations are to lie sugared
off Friday evening at 7:.'IO o'clock. Al
derman Edwin Keast is a candidate for
renomination as alderman in ward four.
Alderman A. E. Bruce is to be a candi
date again in the sixt.i ward and Alder
man J. A. Healy is a candidate for elec
tion in ward two. Thus far they are un
opposed, although the Socialists are to
nominate ward and city candidates at
their caucuses Friday night. It may lw
mentioned here that the Socialists are
practically at. sea as to whom shall be.
nominated, although t h r-y are determined
to have a complete slate in the field.
School commissioners are to be elected
in ward five and ward six.
IN PROBATE COURT.
i beW at the Imiiiso Tuesday afternoon Itrile. She remained tn.-re until 10 years
a suicide's :cuJ for a midwinter institute to I Manchester K. H Police Charre Him'" ''lick. Rev - W. J. M. ileal tic. rw-'agn. when she eam to IWIlows Fall to
iiel.l at the vimnarv sometime n, t w in- I ' .J, . j tor of the t hurrh of the od Shepherd. ! make her home w it h ber nenhrw. Mir is
'ai assisted in the nervier hy Kev. .?. i a member of the Al-tod I'ni v. rsalmt
ftarmtt of the Congregational church, 'church.
defender of the Br:ti!t trenrhr were misiinn rirrle of the Cniver! t church I w as r ;s-. t-d trvat tin- ieti..n oi d-i,l- sprrtor M.dir and !b-a!y of Manchester Tbr l-arrr were: W illiam Kobrrton.
'" omoer ana sever i ooen ! w in or nriu w ,ia .n-. i. iiotitrr r ri- me mimitur on me Winnie in.'-vi arrix.-ri i ere ut nignt tr m St. A.lwns. lames Khiml. vv . II. Mre. William Hob- 'V- i'""n m iMirnngion win
and
with Jumping BaiL
Mjnfhrster. X. If.. Feb. l.-PJicr In-:W.
killed.
men rr ma le prisoners,"
The British official rvmmunit"n
nrl last erning av:
"Last n'l.t, after a heavy torn bar i
day afternoon. F h. Ih. at 2:.Tl o'( . k. J would tii-- on tHe srnlimrnt d. J t . wijn .irrini1. T. Vl'inn of tins city.'rrton and Rupert Bill, a son of the de
Many Administrators Appointed
Other Business Done.
In proliate court to-day Frank D.
Smith of Lyndonville Mettled his accounts
as administrator of the estate of Mary
U Brown, latr of Xorthfield; the will of
John S. Collin, late of Barrr. a pre
sented; Charlc E. Kingsbury of Mont-
lier was appointed administrator of
the rstatr of Ezra Kingsbury, late of
Warren; William J. Redmond of Eno-
burg Falls wax appointed administrator
of the etatc of Martha I.. Caldwell;
t.corge M. King of Marslitield ma ap
pointed administrator of the rfate of
Martha King; KttJ li. .Mason of Mont-
pelier wa appointed guardian for I.
Ashley Mason, a minor, of Montpelier;
D. W. ( oolev of Vtaterbury was appoint
ed administrator of the etatr of lii-a
U t'oi.k. latr of Barrr. in place of .rors
W. Morse.
Mi- I Prgami of Mdford. . H. ar-
l- i.su memoer" arei i : no,g m;t llrf 'at ia-ojy eT'i"vn.. ali-r in im i. etia-f.
'arr n tied to attend. VAatiiiwortL "iiv-i r-t hen dji:d at bnt;i m ng the 1-al a"! with 1 re nxle. trj to iit-
-! witl havinff k;jj.e, bis erased.
Im in Barrr Saturday and will -peak in jried in t.'r city yrstrr.lay and i making
uyt a me piie-t
M-tl.t-ti.-t (Lurchee of tie state.
"it 1 . wje and minor thiMrca.
Tlierr wrre w-vml Cur f.iral I the Baptist church Sunday morninc. Krv. a viit of eeral
tribote. Intrmrnl a made in H pe I. 1'iani will tie the speaker in the even
temetrrj. IBI-
I vi. .n.l Mr. ..!..., ... II l,,l, II r),a
t-treet.
