Eh( e
VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16. 1916
CHAIN GANG BIll
1RD[R[D IATIfI[D
No Alternative If Convicted
of Selling Whiskey
LIABILITY BILL
IS CLARIFIED
Hlopeful that Adjournment may be
had Saturday. A ptpropriation Rhit
- ili Carry in the Aggregate $2,,00,
000, It Seeming Impossible to Trim
(:loser.
Columbia, February 12.-The chain
gang bill, fathered by Mr. Liles, has
been ordered ratified. In the Senate
the provision, including the storing
and transporting of liquor as a chain
gang offence was striken out. The
House today adopted the Senate
amendment, and the Liles bill, there
fore, provides that anyone convicted of
selling liquor must be sentenced to the
chain gang. The punishment for the
s, 'ring dnd transporting of liquor, un
d. the prohibition law remains as
heretofore and is not. covered by the
Liles bill.
The Ilouse today (leveled itself en
tirely to the consideration of third
reading bills, and under this heading
disposed of a number of important
measures, among them being the Pad
get.t-Carter liability bill.
On yesterday there was general
agreement that punitive damages
would not be included in the matter
of damages against railroads to their
employees. 'ir. Boyd, as chairman of
the judiciary committee, offered an
amendment to insert the word "actual"
before damages. This was voted down
and the clause which provided for ex
emplary damages was stricken out. It
was on this that the fight revolved to
day, and Mr. Searson cleared the situa
tion by having an amendment adopt
ed which reads: "Punitive damages
shall not 'be recoverable in cases aris
in., under this Act." The argument on
this question was -largely between
Messrs Graydon, Boyd, Searson, Car
ter, .aGrone and Barr.
Messrs LaGrone and Barr wanted
the bill recommitted, because they
did not think it perfectly clear. Mr.
Boyd made an excellent argument to
show that the word "damage" with
out any furthe' explanation as was
intended by modifying it, with the
word "'actual" was liable to various
constructions. lie read from the dC
cisions of the State Supreme Court to
show that. the word "damages" had
been variously construed in various
sluts, and that if the pIrposes of the
bill are not to indlude punitive dam
ages it should say so.
Mr. Searson thought that. in fairness
to all that the bill should he made per
fectly clear and secured the passage
of the amendment.
Messrs Graydon and Carter, who
have chaperoned the 1)111 through t he
H-ouse, thought that the motion to re
commit was simp~ly an effort' to kill
their lull. They were quite willing to
have the Searson amendment adopted.
but did( not wvant the 1)111 recommitted.
'rhe motion to recommit was with
dIrawn, and by unanimous consent the
Senarsonl amendlment specifleally ipre
venting punitive damages wvas inc'or
porated in the bill, and in this shape it
was finally passed by the House.
UJnger a bill proposed 1by Mr. Cherry,
Commissioner of Agricul tur ie Watson
is authoried to enter into arrangements
whereby ground limestone may 1)0
bought in bulk and so1(1 to the peopie
of the state.
The House extended an invitation to
Messrs Jamos D. Evans, of Florence,
and A. J. Smith, of Anderson, to pre
sent arguments in favor of rural
credita on Tuesday afternoon next.
lsoth of thesec gentlemen have made
studlies of the matter of rural credits.
The Spartanburg delegation was
somewhat divided on the matter of a
county-wide special tax for school
purposes. Two of the (delegation,
Messrs Hicks and Rogers, opposed the
bill, but the majority of the delegation
secured the passage of the bill1 pro
viding for a county-wide levy of four
mills, which is to 1)0 distributed in the
county as a whole.
The Greenwood delegation also had
a little dilfferenec in the matter of the
salary for the clerk of court. Mr.
flowles, of that delegation, opposed
any increase of the salary for that of
There was sotRne slgh.. tato to
TWO ANNOUNCEMENTS.
Two Candidates Throw their Hats into
the Ring, One for Sheriff and One for
'Treasurer.
The political ball has conmenced to
roll. Two candidates make their an
nolncement for ofile in this issue of
'T'he Advertiser, Ceo. C .1Hopkins, for
Sheriff, an'. F. McSwain for treas
urer. The announcement of Mr. l1o
kins marks his formal entrance into
the rice, though lie had already let it
be known before that he intended en
toring the race. The announcement of
ir. lcSwain came as a surprise in
some quarters, as he had not let it he
generally known that he was consider
ing the raco. lowever, his apnounce
ment will cause no little speculation,
as his early entry indicates that he is
going into the race determined to make
it interestig. Mr. McSwain, though a
resident now of Clinton. is a member
of the MAcSwain family of Cross Hill
and is widely connected. At present
he is connected with the Clinton Oil &
Manufacturing Company as bookkeep
er. The present incumbent, Ross D.
Young, has indicated his iutentinm to
run again. Another candidate for the
same position is Mr. Jud Langston, of
Maddens.
Mr. IHopkins is as yet the only can
didate who has announce(.. though it
is expetced that the race for sheriff
will be the most. hotly contested of
any in the county. Among those tmen
tioned as possible candidates are the
recent. appointee. John ). W. Watts, F.
C. Reid, A. ft. Sullivan, I). W. Mason.
of Clinton, .1. T. Peden of Gray Court,
and possibly others.
day of the biennial matter.1 Mr. Wolfe,
of Anderson, reminded the members
of their pledge in favor of biennial
sessions and hoped that something
could be done. He thought that there
had been. a committee appointed to
frame - the necessary bills, but there
seemed to be no one who knew any
thing about such a committee.
A unanimously favorable report was
made of Mr. Fromberg's resolution,
which provides for a change in the Ii
quor laws, and submitting the ques
tion to the voters of the state,
A bill was introduced today provid
ing for a new registration of voters l
for Beaufort.
The Ilouse will meet at noon on
Monday and declined to meet to
night.
The programme of the steering con
mittee intended for to-day holds for
Monday.
't'here was a bare quorum present
today.
The general State supply.bill will be
gievn its second House reading on
Monday.
Most of the members are now ready
for final adjournment and are hope
ful that no complications will arise to
prevent adjournment next Saturday.
The conciliation bill passed the
Ilouse without an objection; the work
Ingtien's compensation proposition is
going to have trouble; f're insurance
tmat ters have come in for mnuch (is
cussion this session.
rThe general a ppropriat ion 1)111 willI
carr'y in the aggregate close to $2,.500,
000. it is almost imipossile to trtm
closer.
No olhject ion has beeti made to the
old1 (ispensarty COut ies shippin1 g and
sellinig otside- the State the uinsold
stock on hand.
111llbusterin g is a pparently a lost art
on thte I louse sidie.
IrThe I louse Caletida r today ran over
sixty piages.
The Hlouse has passed to third read
ing a bill ph oviding for bridges over
the Santee River. In connection with
this bill, which passed the Hlouse, Mr.
Morrison, who is dlirectly behind the
undertaking, has this statement to
make: "We failed to pass the highway
board bill, but that is no reason why
we should stop work along this line.
This bill meant much to um state, it
meant the laying Out of the highways
In their proper place. It meant the
bringing new ideas of roadl building
in our state. It meant the locating
and bridging tihe great rivers flowing
through our State; the spending of a
little nioney here and a little there,
andl nothing accomplished.
Woodrow Wilson School.
The Woodrow Wilson School Im
provement association invites the pub
lie to be present at a supper given at
the school roomn on the evenink of
Feobruar'y 18th. A small foo of twenty
five and thirty-five cents wilt , be
soharged.
MAJORITY LEA1ER
I{ITVlIIN 1IOLDS ON
W.1 Not he Supplanted lecause He
Opposes Preparedness 111 Soein
Other Plans.
Washington, Feb. 13.-Speaker Clark
issued a statement tonight, charac
terizing as nonsense talk of ousting
Representative Kitchin from the
I iouse majority leadership because of
i.. oP,)position to the preparedness pro
gram anld other ad minist rat ion plans.
1Ie said he expected to leave the
speaker's chair whenever lie felt it
necessary to oppose or support. any
measure, but would do so without
any intent to supplant Representative
Kit clin or any other coninittee chair
man or leaders.
"It'., a pity," said the speaker, "that
all Democrats do not agree about all
'things, but Mr. Kitchin has as much
right to his opinion as the president
has to his or I have to mine.
"No man can bull a proposition
through the house by main strength.
The entui d philosophy of success in
that. able and tumultuous assembly is
to take things by the smooth handle,
to rub the hair the right way of the
hide and to confer freely with mem
hers, persuadllg rather than attempt
ing to drive, yielding in non-essen
tials. tirn as a rock on fundamentals.
There are 'I 5 icminers, and every
one of them has a perfect right to
his opinion and to express it when
ever and wherever it seems to himt
meet and proper.
"if the busyhodies who are trying
to stir up strife by magnifying small
differenes of opinion among Demo
crats would help eliminate these dif
ferences they would constitute them
selves patriots instead of marplots."
MIS. VARIRIE LOU FOSTER
DIED IN FLORENCE
Daughter of Mrs. W. T. Dorroh, of
this City, Succoinbs to Pinoumonla.
Mrs. Carrie Lou Foster, wife of )r.
C. A. Foster, of Timmonsville, died at
an infirmary in Florence Thursday
morning where she had been carried
for treatment a week before. The
news of her death was received with
much regret here, where she was well
known and where her mother, Mrs. W.
T. Dorroh, and other relatives reside.
She had been sick for several weeks,
but pneumonia was the rimtiadiate
cause of her demise. Two sisters,
Mrs. S. M. Wright, of Woodruff, and
Miss Minnie IDorroh, of this city, were
at her bedside when death overtook
here. ier brother, .\lr. S. R. Dorroh,
two sisters. Mis. L. G. Roff and Miss
Willie I)orroh and a cousin, Miss
Elizabeth Swidzer, attended the fun
eral services from this section.
In addition to her husband and two
small children, she is survived by her
mother and the following brother and
sisters, Mr. S. I. Dorroh, Mrs. S. .
Wright of Woodruff, Mrs. T. M. Il~vver,
of Anderson; Mrs. L. G. Roff, Tau
rens; and Misses Minnie, Sarah, Ro
berta and Willie, of this city.
Mrs. Foster was a woman of exem
idariy chiaracter and~ greatly loved
whercever known. She was for' seveiral
years a teacher in thle school s of this
county andl is affeteclonately rememi
bered by many of her former luil s.
inid iiaind ('ut Off.
iFt1 n'an~u t iiron, a yoilng boy froin
tile country wVho has been L atkindinig
school ini the ci my thIiis yea r, 11ad( oli
of ,his hands so badl~ y latcer ated by
miachinery in the shop of J1. 1). Sexton
& Son yesterday that it wais found
necessary to amputate it. lin fact, thle
flesh of thle hand wvas but a sihapieless
mass whienu it was freed from the mta
chinery and only the prompt action of
eye-witnesses saved him from being
probably fatally mangled, Hie was
hurriedly pliaced in a buggy by Mi'.
Chane' and rushed for medical as
sia o, a tight hold being kept on
his wrist al'1 the time to prevent loss
of blood. 'lNo young follow held up
bravely uinder the severe .train andI
was greatly admired for bis condtuct
under the circumstances.
John1 Woody Captured.
John Woody, one of the negroes whb
oecapedl fr'omn the jail several weeks
ago after' making an assault upon
"Uncle Jack" (Glynn, was captured last
week near' Whitmitre andl lodged in
the county Jail. Talking about. tho
matter' yesterday, "Unagle Jack" who
has almost recovered, saidl he did not
think that John would attempt to get
away again soon. The capture was
made by Chain Gang Guard Terry,!
ghio roported the matter to Sheriff
'Watts.
MANY APPLI'ATIONS FOl,
('O1'NTY DIEMONS'itATORI
3'r. W. IW. Lontg Says that. lie W1il .%p.
point the 3iost Eflicient. anl Best
Quaillied 3Inn lit ('an Find.
Air. W. W. ILong, director of the ex
tension department of 'olemson ('01oege,
has now under consideration the ap
po1itmntI of a far m demonstrator for
this couanty to succee(i .ohn ). )W.
Watts, rehigend, who was recent.y ap
pointeC sheriff. It is understood hat
MIr. Lour has had (pule a large nu1
her of appliIants for th11 Place, bit of
cotirse he has not pullished their
names nor annotunced who Will receive
the alpointlient. .idging from the
letter which he has 'i ritten to one of
his friends here, he expects to appoint
someone who has had agricultural col
lege course and who will give his en
tire time to the work. The following
are some excerpts from a letten in re
gard. to the al)pointment :
"I am giving this matter a great deal
of thought hecause I want. to get the
'most eflicient and competent one that
I can find. I have no interest in the
world in any man except to appoint
the very hest man that I can get for
that county.
"Now you know, the denonstrat ion
work has developed rah idly. A man
has got to know som etl'ig more than
just how to cultivate Ce'')tn and eorn
to make a good. ehic ienI ad suce's
fil agent, and while i have no idea of
appointing boys just from the class
room of an agricultural college, yet at
the samte time if we cnn lld a man
who has graduated at an agricultural
college and who has had Practical ex
perience, you must. admit, and so will
I, that lie will make the most efllicent
agent, taking into consideration his
ability to mix with people and to gain
their confidence. Now this is the kind
of man I am trying to find for Laurens
county.
"I have in mind two men, South Car
linians, who I anm onsidering for the
position in your county. The appoint
ment will be announced within the
next few days.
"I have written you very frankly be
cause I know that you realize that ev
en though I may make a mistake I am
doing what I believe to he for the best
interest of (he people of Laurens coun
ty. My only desire is to serve the
people. I have to fight with myself
soietimies to keep my desire to ae
comtodate my friends from getting
he best of me, but I would not appoint
my brother or dearest friend to a po
sition in this work unless I thought he
was the hest qualitled tman 1 could
find."
OFF FOl (iRENVI i.E.
Three .automobile ('outestait s (:nests
of 31r. and 31rs. W. A. 31oorehead,
The "Last 'halter"' in ''ha Adver
tiser's "great automobile contest" was
enacted yesterday when a party of
fotir women and one man left the city
in the prize ear for Greenville to at
tend the showing of "The li th of a
Nation". In the party were Mr. and
M~rs. W. A. M\oorehtead. Ilarenhts of thte
sluccessful comitest anit, and1 telir guests5,
.\lrs. JT. A. Weffordi, .\irs. (Conwiay Dial
and1( AIrs. Vicor We \'athetrs.
it, will he remiemb eed that dluring
head1( wr'ote( a lotter1 to 'Th1 Adver illtise
saying that "his mamma andl his pa pa'
wiotuld earry the three hightest nion-wini
nintg conltestantts on a trlip) to tGreenville'
ln case heO won the aultomolell( As will1
:1lso he remembheired, ho won tho a
t(loobile and1( "mamma and1( Iaa" were ~~04
fuilfilling the contrtact y'esterday.
They left t he city ab iot 10():30 o'c10ck
expecting to t'each Gireenville in time
for luich and the afternoon perform
aintce, Mtr. and Mirs. Mloorehead htaving
previotusly engagedl tickets for' the par
ty. Althiought they wer'e not seen) upon0
their retutrn last. night, It is a for'egone
conclusion that thtey had a delightftui
time,
fiinya Entire Stock.
Mr. Irskine Todd, whio recently
putrchased the stock of Mr. Albert
Iall in the Peoples Drug P'tore, has
recently purichased the remaining
stock helonyinag to Mr'. 1". TI. C1aiune
and is niow in fuli ownership (of lth"
business. Dr. Ii. S. D~antzler, who haos
heen) in chargo of thte pr'escipt ion dle
partment, will contInue wit hthte flt'm.
To Occupy Todd1t-Siflmon Rtore.
It was slated yester'day that the
new hardware 'fl~rm, Jones-Taylor
Company, would move their stock- of
goods to the stand formerly occupied
by the Todd-Simpson Com~any about
the first of Sentember.
GREAT CHAUTAU
FOR LAUREl
Fifty Progressive Citizens ha
to Back up the Plan. (
.\rrangelnents have just been con
pleted for bringing to this city next
May what is said to he the greatest
chau itatt(lua in the world. The iRedpath
('Iha1tamuqas have l:ee't in the state' for
the past. two years and have hieomie
lie'r1an1iit1 institutions of great popit
larity in all the larger cities. including
(harleston, Suomter, Darlington. :o
Inlbia, Hock Hill, Chester, Greenwood,
Anderson and Greenville. Only a
conifiet with festival dates has kept
Sortanhourg out of the list the past
two years.
The chautautiua will last for eight
days although no program will be giv
en on Sunday, and the very best- talent
I money eaa huy will be pesented. On
six of the seven program days there
will be three sessions and generally
two features at each se0s'(ion, some
thirty-fi ve features being offered dur -
ing the week. A iiffetrent mu.1(al fen
t11re will be given every diy. am1oi(g
which there have already been chosen(
the following: The)4 Killarneys, a coin
:ally of eight. ladies who sing. lay
and give miiUsical sktehes cit great
lbarm;: ' The Selum22:ann: ((intotto. oiel
of Iloi tonl's most famous mu22si.' olgnll
izations: W eatherwax II ros., male
(inartette, the leading lyceum (1uartetto
I of the country; The White Ilitssars, an
orchestra and m11en4 chorus idme.
Jilia Claussen, prima donna of the
Chicago-Philadelphia Grand Opera Co.
This is the most costly and most. in
teresting, musically, of the whole list,
as Midme. Claussen is considered to
have a remarkable voice, in that it
ranges through both contralto and so
prano. With her comes two French
artists which only the war could make
possible. Signor Hienratti, violinist,
and Charlier, pianist. This might well
rank with the best of the music fes
tivals of the larger cities.
Among speakers already selected,
will be Mr. Rainey Bennett, famous
llalilar lecturer; Ng Poon Chew, great
Chinese statesman and orator. the
''A LE TI' 'i'OMOlliIOW NIGTIl
Spectiu' ila r ierformance Will lie
Soiredi in the School At i itoritu i
'i'hurs!ay Night.
I:very child and many grown peo
ple, who like Peter Pan, never grow
up, often wonder what would laplpen
it the d12n1) creatures in a toy shop
w'ere suddenly endowed with lire and
left to chatter in a merriment created
out of their own whimsical fancies. To
be sure remarkable things would occur
and this is exactly what happens in
"Fi-Fi" to be given at the Auditorium
Thursday night for tile benefit of the
fubl l schools. The plot of I lhe play
in hrief' is:102 onie, thle I oy-m2a ker's
daulighter, while working In lier fa
thieri's shop at thle ('lose oft day is over'
taken2 iiy the S12ianma, wiho ('asts her
intoi a1 malgic 5sleep. She dreams11 a1 wonl
Wooidlen and( li (in 112 retr 01f the shop
comle to lite antd a niight of r1evelrmy rol
n ',unie and1( thle tciys herore the morn
latg light selitter's the Sandmian's charm
a321 lcionnie a1wakens.
Theo 11 announeient will doubthiless lhe
r'ecei vedl withI pleasurei~ that Mir.
Chiarles 11111llard, who was here sonie
t ime , o In "'Cousin Isabelle'' has eon
senltedI 1.o take a heading plart in F'i-Fl.
lie arrives tciday and wili mtet with:
the r'est of the cast tonight.
Thio namlies of tile principals In the
east wvero given last week anid tile
meimbetrs of the cho0ruses5 ad groups
are as follows:
.Jumin lng ,hacks--James Terry, Alr
thor Jlovdc, Frank lloper', J. J1. Adams,
Ilinani Johnson, Fred Rope1r, Louis
Solomotn, John11 Riha rdson, Ilerman
Harton2, lLwrcl(e Tihompson, John
llober't l111s8.
Idlog) \Villle Bell Ray, (cat) (Cabell
(Garret, (owl) Wm2. Duonlap, (mIlonkey)
Mart in Teague, (pig) Pinckney Sum
mlons.
China D~olls-Alma Sullivan, Mar'tha
Fr'anlk, Rulth iddle, Flora Bennett,
Hiattlo Watson, Katherine Crews, .Juan
Ita Wilkes, Gladys Roper.
Papor Dolls--Bruce Bagwell, Caro
lyn Fleming, Virginia Sullivan, Kate
TIlinn lhiehnlhergrr Bnlln Burns. Ce
QUA WEEK
S IN THE SPRING
ve Signified their Willint ness
ontract has been Signed
grleatest l'laitformn hind of the1 y',':-"
A r. C he*wv is a wit nid or for I first
calibre and piecrhalcs knows lhinese
conlditions) as no (1ne1 e'lse; le s ':ilellt,
ii'kerr, if N('w York lI4'icien(y \=so
elation. Tfhis: featu11re alon1( 1.-ing
:orth the price of tIhna e chauniina to
any I;usiness iatn. Oti'rs have tot
yet hen chosen.
A.; to entertainmentls the4 lfolionwnw
light he mentioned: Aliss fag Znrnola
MXIiaLrern. illlersonator: I ari.h I'lay
er.-;, giving tIhree one-act plays: Percy
McKay's irid Alasinc "Sanctuary"',
which includes mI'Oting pictures, 0o0
hour of a play in which actors lako
part of birds and animals, and a page
ant in which a hondred children take
hart. ''hris is said to be the greatest
and Costliest single entertainment ever
1th on the platform and cannot be ad
(I"latel described.
.\ .'ries of lenlrt:es by a spee!:llist
\ill h f iture of the morningrs, along
ciic (notnnie, scienititic and literary
lin:n. Also a fiained chiilren's en
i; exe lify the i play
r 'ntl '.\ ork and hove a "tory lleur"
each day f'mr the children.
l :y pros ei it izelns of the
eoOnmty hav c guaranterd thie rienes.--iry
amount. and will :tand lack of it. The
price of an adult season ticket, admoit
ting to all the twenty sessions of the
week. will le $2.50 or 12 1-2 cents a
session. A child 1-1 years of age and
under will be admitted to all for $1.25
Chiliren under six years and aceom
Panied by guardian will be admitted
free.
Single admissions range 25, :5, ,0
cents and $1.00 and total in all some
$8.00, and yet a season ticket. at $2.50
admits to all.
Whatever financial pi ofit may come
to local people will be for the benefit
of some public institution, probably
the city school. Every city in the state
last year made money out of this chau
launlua, CIarleston making nearly
$1,000 for its share and Greenwood,
$500.
cclia Taylor, Isois Nelson, Francis My
er's.
Letter liloks- arolilne llaikin .il-.
dred ((onlit5, liarrictIe iilghes, Iler
nl e eleng. i'atiillo Wilkes, Annie lat
rie Thompson, Mary Htoper, L.aura
ilmuily Dial.
llie,'maids --.\Iisses ilclen Sulilvanr,
Kathleen :'itgreaves, .\lary Posey, Lil
ilan Kibler, i4alia .\ae Dial, A\ilha
lolt. Iiarlan Crews, Lala )ial, .\l -.
Albert Dial.
Flairies ,laig rirlt(e loper, .\lrioi
lilackw\'ell, Toccoan( Gray, 'ermoello
('aine, Louise Smlith, Mary Sire 11o1.
.la intrie Ilicha rdson, Floride .\loore,
Laura Itudgens, Sarah K. Barksdale.
Gtrace YonIg, Iehlneca Adams, Sarah
Kliza Fwgert , Nell e .10ones, I rene
WmAiIlkes, Mla ry .\le( ord(, l1rill a Ow -
inigs, Sarah Rlichrey, VIrginria I licks,
Irenei.\Motes, N'anie L~ee Il~lhlr, .\da
('atlherine Owingsm, Kathnerine icaks,
Luie .\leCordl, .lanire I loimles ll)avis.
.\Iariegenie Gray', Kiolse M\iller, Hnosalien
Sulilvian, lheatrlie' ialbb, Nancy .\enre,
iary (G~ame, larry ('opetlnd, Laul'n
1Kennedy, Atat tie .\lay lhrinlap, (arliine
I lldgenis, ilariet Iishiop, Ilirlw .\a
hra ffe, L.etha K ennredly, Lega 'I I 1htek
wvel, I Mary Mlajor, liarriet Toddi.
InspectIon Next Monirth.
Anniounemrent has beenr received
here from Adjutant Genreral M\oore
tht h l'.! Natoinml Guard comprtany
willhav their anual inspection on
Saturday March 4th. The comipanry
willl be Inspected by Gen. Moore rep
resenting tire state and Capt. J1. M.
Graham, r'epresenting the national
government,
Pa atPrinceton.
Thre aidvanced tpupilIs of P'rrinceton~r
schrool will give a play "Ye Villago
Skewl of Long Ago'' on Friday evenIng,
Februrary I Stir, beginnrrIirng at 8 o'clock.
Admissionr 10 cenrts for children and
2t0 cents tor adults.
liebels Srtengthenend,
Lonrdoni, Feb. I13.-Tloklo dispathles
'itated that the Chrinesre rebiels wh'io ad,
anced fromi Puinnan Province into.
Esechuoen andh catltured Lucehow andi
Chrungking have been joined bry gov,
enntn troonn.
