Vfi,..,i..f,,-.-. J"
3---
IT SHINES FOR ALL
THE WEATH
FORECAST.
shovtta to-mor
xm.
Partly cloudy tp-
row; mo
Highest temperatuVe y
of est, 4g.
Detailed weather, may
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 265.
-M-f
NEW YORK, MONDAY, MAY 22, 1916. Copyright, 101C. lit trie Sun IVnllrtj7 onrl J'ubllsMit7 Association.
b CENTS.
EJR
Mffri rrvM
rvu x vv
TAFT LEADERS
ORGANIZE FOR
Itooscvclt Jiopublican Com
mit loo Formed to Force
Colonel's domination.
I)KIK(!ATIOX IS (iOIXG
TO SKKJIJ3L TO-DAY
A movement that lias the earmarks
ci an rffort tu stitmH?do the Republican
nation al loiiventluii for Col. Theodora
KwKvclt la under way. A group of He
publlcans, mostly Taft men In 1912,
refrfsciitlnff sentiment In nt least thirty
State", have organized a. "Itooscvclt He
publican committee," with headquarters
f. r Dm nrescnt In the lilltmoro Hotel.
ifoniB von 1.. Mvcr. Secretary of the
v,.v under Presidents Tad nnil ltnosa. I
iflt Wat Its head. The committee mad nl onro Baw tha there was no hope for
wnuii lis existence vestcrduy To.duy.llls recovery.
nown Its existence jtsicruay. o uu
a doien or more of Its members will ca II T Women Fursne inr.
upon tho Colonel at Oyster H.ijr, "to ask ' " "omPM -'pr Injnry.
mm what he has to say." ,
The committee has Wen org.mUed In
th ).it four duvs.
Tho HcpubllcnnH
h" form its membership realize that ,
Iticy are perhaps a trlllc late In getting ,
ii.irted, but so encouraged are they by
fheaies of telegrams that have poured
into tho committee's suite that they ex
jiect to hae enough delegates rounded
up for the Colonel in Chicago to drive
thlrgs his way, uonert i . Morris, vice
srr Ment of the Union League Club and .
'ormir liepubllc.ui county chairman, J
uno spohe iir inn i-uiiuiiiiieu ji-firi.ij
.1 the aoj-ence or .Mr. .Meyer, empna-iui uover ir. uairymple headed his car
jxed the fa 't that the movement 's up Diekerson's Hill, n steep Incline,
f.r, tly one within the llepubllcan party. There Is a bridge over the Morris Canal
A Washington despatch to Tin: Sr.v and the Jersey Central Railroad a short
a few days ago hinted at the commit- way up the hill Mr. Dalrymple noticed
!fn activity. In many quarters It Is the tall lights of another autgmoblle
retarded as the trump card of the Jut ahead of him and he put on his
noofcclt ltepublkMtis prior to the meet- brakes.
of the delegates in Chicago two In doing this he Mnlled the engine,
weeks from Wednesday. These men When he tried to start the car again
fee' hat every political mean at hand something went wrong. The machine
. tVmg used to sidetrack both Hughes began to back down the hill. Mr. Dal
ml Uiio.-cvelt by leaders who form what, rymple tried to put on tho brakes again.
mnvement is the answer to the Old
known as tne niil uiiarn, ami mis
luaril's endeavors. The members of 1 bumped ncro-s trollev Hacks at the foot mln, charge of the campaigns of for- , West of the organization w lote to Major
to committee, which Is a national body of the hill, rolled over a ten font em- j Ttr l,ovcrnor Murphy nnd Senator Col- j 0.,jvan ,.,t TmlrHd.,y railing at
vi countrywide in its personnel, have bankment at the foot of the hill and "'.T:. , . ,, , , , , tmtlon to tho imivislnn o' the liw nnd
Mertged themselves to nsta!llze the turned over .it the sldj of the canal. I . 'taM, lr' Murphy and r0. tin mil to the prmlsloi o. th. law and
IV 'jevelt sentiment throughout the land Mis. Dalrymple and Mis. Snvder. who Col",, fuocecd In r.-placlng Mr. Dal- notllled his associates In .New :k to
nl force Its weight upon the Chicago w,.re not even stunned, managed to 'crawl 1 r'tnplo In Kss,.x, which is admittedly 1 get out an Injunction If noo J-arv to
Mttarlng. out of tho wreckage. Finding that their ; " 1 ''' V,oy W."u1'1 2,ul " dlmc,llt to stop It.
husbands were under the car. they lifted ,, 1" th.. Mtate at large. I . ., . ,, ...,,- ,..,,, ..,
. Km ml....is. t ... ..t.ii.. ia i..' .i Mr. DalrjniPle made lhe a lances lie.. As a icsui! .Natlona. diMidrmen
' " . . . - . - - ..... - - - - ' " Mini rmivcuiu ill rir.i.T
This committee of Itepubllcans." sajsljni-" Mr. Snyder. Mr. Dalrymple was
the ommlttee's statement, "has Wen j lbl fa"t under the machine. They were
,'oinii-il to crvMalllze the demands 1 unable to get any response when they
n-nuiic Itepnbllc'an voters for the iioml-1 spoke to hlni. Just then a trolley car
nation of Theodore Itoosevelt by n le-tcime along and the crew gave what aid
; . ... .... ...-i .
I' -fh." sentntent for his nontiiu
tinn'is l,!esnr...ul in everv State of the .
I'r.lor.. The purpose of this committer I
!s to organize this sentiment and make;
It cfftetlve, and to aid the P.epubtlcan
party in going before the country re- I
united and In full strength with u can-!
didate who" better than any other man j
represents the spirit of Americanism
swakened by the present crisis In the!
ration's history.
"Oeorge von L. Mever, who was a!
trenher of the r.ililnets of both Presl. '
dent Itoosevelt and President Taft has
consented to act as chairman of tho'tlclans as ual." Ilgureu prominently
committee The committee will be en-1 in the politics of the State. He exerted a
larced and will extend Its activities to I
every state in ortler to nring logetner j
elements In the party for united ac-,
' n'i and wi'l welcome the cooperation
' v ite:s n all parts of the country. In
cilc to notifv Col. Itoosevelt of Its or- ,
c.in'i.itnni and Inform him that they In
era 'o do .ill they can to bring anouv
H nomination, the conimittee will wait
ijon i' i lloosevelt at the earliest op
rnrnu , i .i, clock this afternoon Is
''ii- api 'el hour)
"The " mnilttee has opened headipi.ir
'irs a' the Hotel Hlltmore, where repre
eii'.it vis of the committee will at all
' nei" he available. It requests all He
rald Tf who are Interested In the sup
pvi i! its work to communicate with It
' on e Telegraph, wrltu or cnll, ad
dre.smg Sm retary Capt, Arthur F.
foln ia ttis-s-evelt Hough Itlder). Suite
'? Until Itiltmnre. New Vork city. The
s jrttie.s t' the time betwein now and
' e mi vi-i ' ..n demands immediato ac-iii-
'"ii It "Aevi li made tlie appointment
with 'he .onmlttee for this afternoon
s-d It is ri-esiiiied that he Is amenable
' ' i1 roan- it has In view. It Is also
stood that Heorge W. Perkins has
ii oiisuiti.ri .., tho ma'ter and Is glv
z lie . .nn i ittee hearty Hlipiort.
tonet i.t w ' i' the Idea that tho Colon'ei !
" e on v ii in uiui can lead the Ue
T" lr a fight to win against
' i t W l. m There Is not a Pro
- ' ' "ii ' committee to tile knowl
jilje i-,. . ,. at its head, and the meni
tirsi. . i - swelling, Tho headquar
be irn.ved to Chicago not later
'" . a wrek f urn to-day.
Here Is tin
Commuter,
tie at present represents
ni among Hepiibllcans
'v States, as a glance at
d show. These members
rvio. , , ye,
'n at 'i vt i
he a'ni-s w
'"nieu
Jtii ni.m in., rgp vnn 1. Merer
Tn-4. ,riT .l.ihii .iin, )n,.. ,,rf
ft r-T','"' ' "'' Ar,,,ur r- Co.liy. Hotel
vr'T, -M )'fr '"'"-oit.. Mich : KiUard
Mir' I i.li... Fall. .V y. Henrv J.
I l t tl I I Km .'r.Ml...i.l e .il.l...
II .
Mi
I ' Fnsl VV Ajcr. llaiiiror.
ir. II Viliew Sew VnrU rim
I,.) if J" ", 11 .""kuis Louisville. Kr.,
c '' .. '" ' N V- Prink L. Ilrowii,
ii I." T" ' '' Hoves, Watt.
" ' 1 llrHim. .ie lio.ion, Mas.; .Melvin
V. : ' .. .' '"I'li'ir li.ieon.
i. ' ." ,, ' " "rum". Jamestown,
1111 III ll on tin r iiiL-t.,i-l t,..l .
v
P -ins .Sr. Vork . iij-, Charles P
l.iiuoi ( ,n,rz- II HirlHiur
Moii Hiram lloi.luini, New Have
Nentoi. Ile. h.r Cre. in ille. Kv.; Ho.
llMii.miile si I.,,,,,,, j, . .n;nnm.
Hi.,
'i.
'I..
I'nl
.im.i iij . iiirani iv iieiini'it
i nil I i, linrrlil. lin.-nn
.Il.f.ir V llrtiilrni Iil.n.iAi.'.i.i.. i... .'
t I. Ilulltr Chin.,,,. n" v. ' ' " '
f 'ni X'"""'! . William W
'. i l, ,H,",l,l,"l ' Jiidae Henrr S.
'' '"J ft '."ill" Mil Vleiiii,,.r s. Cneh
. Ss Vork . IIJ lunula, II cra"
V", "V."," ' ,J "y ; " 'iose. Il'i
Mil laror.. Oiniiley, lio.tnti, M,i..
.. "'"' djdi Coulidse Jr Huston, Ma.,
II lolm, Siukaiii Wash : lleiiilon
r , ;.. Ora.u-e N J Huah f;i," Ime ' "ii"'
v .'.',h. Weiebiiid. VVaurlnwii
v ' W Infield Co irl All.ua... my J
II ..nUi.,11 on Ilel Air M, .,,, ,! i&Ti
" .f N V ; Char is ,U1. nr ,ilvn
I' N Hieii Onialia. .,.), . Jj 'a 'Van
.huro Hi ; Mi,,.,,, r l),.,I,; Tlmiile:
a f N( V . tin. Hon .Morrill N. Drew, Porl-
i i in II i:.i,ri. San Kranei.i-o, ;SI John
r on Watfrhury Cuiiii ; l.'a d William
"it rraviforiLvlile, liul ""m
i' .. A S Fouler Furl Suiiih, Ark! V.
t frniif brim. Whrehhj VV Va
'i H M I.ooi1ni.io. Loul.t ille, Ky j P
ConliniKd ua Fourth J'age.
DALRYMPLE JERSEY G.O.P.
LEADER, KILLED BY AUTO
Car, Out of Control, Backs Down Hill and Turns Over
Wife and Another Woman Escape Injury
Third Companion Slightly Hurt.
Dovr.n, X .!., May Il.Alfred N.
Dalrymple. leader of tho Ilepubllcnn or
Katilzatlon In Kmtx county and one of
tho controlling factors In tho ltepubll
can politic) of New Jersey, died In the
Hover doncral Hospital nt 11;G0 o'clock
this morning from Injuries received In
an automobile nccldent on the outskirts
of the town late last night.
A five passenger car, which he was
driving on his return from Dover to
Newark with Mrs. Dalrymple and Mr.
nnd Mrs. Andrew C. Snyder, backed
down a hll!, dropped over an embank
ment nnd turned upside down on the
tow path of tho Morris Canal. Mr.
Dalrymple was pinned down by the body
of the machine nnd his chest was
crushed. A piece of the windshield
Punctured his lungs. He was unconscious
wn, carried to the hospital. Physicians i
I'.uryinpie ami .Mr. Snyder r-
c.ped Injury. Mr. Snyder, who was
caimnt under the car with Mr. Dal-
rymple, received only a few cuts and
bruises, and was nble later to go to his
home at 35 Second avenue. Newark.' Mr.
Snyder Is a member of the Kssex county
Hoard of Elections.
-Mr. and Mrs. Dalrymple and their
friends left Newark on Saturday after
noon for a tour through north Jersev.
They had dinner at tho Pino Terrace
Inn In Morris county and stnrted for
iiwiiic i lAie iiuur. .n uie ouisKiris ;
oar. increasing In "-nee.l PV.rV. ,,u,mnt .
nui apparently they failed to work. The
it.,. ..imi.i M,. m .!, .... a., i.i-
h.wpllal ami his wife remained,"'
at his bedside until he died.
Several prominent politicians and
other friends of Mr. Dalrymple came
to Dover as soon as they heard of the
accident. Scores of telephone mesj-agm
were received at the hospital during
the day.
MrooK In Jer- Politic.,
NKWAnK, .N J. May "Jl. Alfre.l N.
Dalrymple, who was familiarly known
'among itcpubllcan and Democintlc poll,
powerful Intliience In the legislation at
i remon nunng ni- i.i m-emou .uiu ne
was recently selected to manrn:e tint
campaign lor lormer i.ov. rratmiin
Murphy in the coming contest for t ho
rnueu Mates senatorial uoiuiii iiiiiii aim
for Senator Austen Colgate, who Is seek-
EIGHT RESCUED AFTER
WRECK IN BRONX KILLS
Wiwffo Hits Tlock ami Men Arc
Mtii'onniMl on Hci'f ns
Tiil Hushes In.
Klght .voting men connected with the
Fiiendnhlp I loa t Club had n wet and
thrilling experience last evening when
a four oared barge in which they were
returning from a day's outing at College
1'olnt ""'tick a submerged rock III tho
llronx kills midway betwren the Hronx
shore and IlandaU's Island. The tld"
was at ebb when their voyage suddenly
stopped and It was coming In at what
appeared to be an alarming rate of
speed Hhen they were rescued two hours
later by police boat No. 3, In charge of
Sergt. David (loss. ,
The men wero standing In water up
tn their waists. They were Harry .1.
Huff, US Wooilycrest uventle. The ltionx;
Alexander J. Hunyau, 2ln Seventh ave.
line. Harrv II. Lelb. 43 Leonard street;
Nliholas H. Duess. ."13n Hast USth
strict; James V. McCieady and .foliii
JohiiMon, both of 121 last 1 l.'d street;
Harry .1. Marnley, 411 Vmh 1.17th street,
and Thomas Lynns, doff w.is the skip
per. He, Lelb, Dues nnd Marnley wero
at the oars. Hunyan was coxswain.
They left the Friendship Hoat Club at
lulth street and the Harlem Hlver and
weie returning through the kills to reach
the llailem Ulver when the b.ilge
struck. A hole was cut In the bottom
and the water came In so fast that nil
hid to get out and balance themselves
on lhe rllppcry reer
in.. ...i-i--..- - . ii
riie tide was coming In us the patrol '
boat steamed Into the k Is and ''tgt. miles long In the Kemp City section
Ho-s saw they vveie in dlflloulty. (Jiving (mv three small dwellings leinalu
tj the rocks Ihu police boat roiildii t run, stainllng In Kemp City. Twelve busl
In and Sergt Hosh shouted. Keep ness houses, a two story hotel and sixty
your balance anil don t lose your nerve resiliences were demolished,
until we return with a rovvboat. ' Thin Is tin. second Mine M recent
The patrol boat crew borrowed a row, yParH that the little town of HOil Inhabl-
boat and the eight wet and badly scared mnts has 1 n visited hy u tornado
young men were rescued fiom tho rocks. 1 Merchants said that the town probably
AIR RAID ON PORT SAID.
Two Civilian Killed hy llomha
From TnrUlsh Arroplnnr.
Sprrlttl I'o'ilf l'i"tch to Tun Si s.
I.onpon, May 21. An attack on Port
Hald, the northernmost isolnt on tho Huer,
Cai.al, by two Turkish neroplanes, re
sulting In two deaths, Is annotinreil In a
statement received by the War fifties
to-i.lght from Ilrltlsh heudqiiarterH at
Cairo. It says.
Two enemy aeroplanes bombarded
Port Said tills morning, Two civi
lians were killed and thirteen civilians
anU Ave oldlcm Injured.
Ing the Ilepubllcnn nomination for Gov.
ernor.
Mr. Dalrymple was n member of the
Republican Mtnto committee and was
chairman of the Kssex county ltepubll
ran committee for five years, lie was
County Counsel of Ksnex county at the
time of his death.
Ho was born In Washington, D. C,
on December 1G, 1874. Ho was the son
of Frederick II. nnd Anne Dalrymplo.
His ancestors were curly settlers nt Mop
rlstown, N. .1. He entered the ofHco of
1'crry S. 1 tenth, Washington correspond
ent for many leading newspapers, after
finishing his course In the Washington
public school and became n shorthand
reporter. Ho served nt many Congres
sional hearings and also uctcd us prl
vnto secretary of several Congressmen.
Itnd Important Posts.
He was selected by Congressman It
Wayne Parker In 1S95 as his contldentl.il
secretary nnd later entered the law otllce
of Cortlandt on. I It W.ivnn Parker In
Newark. He wan graduated from Colutn-
W.i University with tho degree of master
of ,aw) nmJ WM nlmltled , lhe bar of
,he W'trlct erf Columbia In 1S97 nnd of
Nfw Jcffy m , 19pl nnil 1?n5
he was secretary to C.ov. Murphy. He
as ejected to I Vhe HooM of A de men In
Newark in lflOfi. He was choccn chair-1
man of the Kssex county Kcpublican '""m inert- nn mui '"""!
committee In the samo year and held i Commissioner Arthur Woods. They In-
that otllce continuously until 1911. He formed tho management of the show
was appointed Collector of Customs of'.i... .i,ii,uinM . ... ., ..Mnneil
the port of Newark by President Taft I ,nilt "uc" exhibition as was planned
in 1911 nnd held the position two vears.
Mr. IVnlrvtvmtn uvi. n ..e o,., .
law linn of Iilrymple, Williams & Mur
phy of Newark. He was a member of
many clubs and was a prominent l'ree
.Masou.
He lived nt 3S Park place, Newark.
Hesldes his wife, ho Is survived by two
sons
Jin - .Xttrvt I'firl)'" Future.
Tiik.vtos, N. .1., May 21. Mr. Dal
r tuple's death may have marked effect
upon the Immediate future of the He
publican party In New Jersey. He was I
., ,, , actively u nc nea.i or me
I Iteiiubllciwi organization In lsex
i county, the most Important In the state
,,om 11 I'rty v iewiKilnt. but was In Im-1
t'.vcer. the Slurphy-Celgatc forces "n.wlw. had mne vnlunlarllv to the Speed
Ksvx nnd those in other counties, und ' way. palng their own expenses to make
It was lie who negotiated the bargains I ...... ,
and ennineercd the deals through which '"''non-tiatlun for irep.uedm.,,
outside support was to be secured. I couldn't c.wy out 'heir plans. It is true
.Mr. Daltvmplc was one of the parties 1
the .combination between lsex and
south Jersey through which an alliance
wa formed between the Kssex nre.inlza.
lion and David Italrd. the Camden 1
leader. The h-pg 'sumiing frbi " dp
between .Mr. Murphy ami Mr. Ualr.1 '
mak, It probable that the alliance will I
bo continued in so far as Mr. Muf-
phy Is concerned, but Mr. Halrd has not
been favorable to the candidacy of Col.
Col Bate. ,
Mr Italrd has been relying upon the
Influence of Mr. Dalrytniile n his flKht
ag.iwist Newton A K Hugbee for chair
man of the New Jersey delegation to the
iiauonai convention. The fight had as.
sumed latgely the aspect of a contest
m ivu-ni un uooi supporters, as rep-
rer-elittsl by Mr. Ilalid nnil .Mr. Mm. i
Phy. and the Hughes sympathizers. I hire and not as a mlllt.irv organization , '""'' ,n ran-
headed by Mr. Hutbee. JIr. Halrd lost ' A band of Scottish bagpipers al-o ;w,,i ""' priniip.il line of communion
a valuable ally In the death of Mr. "kirled merrily In front of the Judges' Hon. Should tills event come about
Dalrymple, Island, The evening performance was both Mesopotamia and Armenia will be
- called off. I lost to the Turks
i
KISS FOR ROCKEFELLER!
COSTS HIM A NICKEL
II is Little' (iranilson Kv
fliiinyos ii t'an'ss for cnl
.Monov.
T.viiiivtown, May II John 1 1. Itocke.
f Her attended service to-day at the
Lyceum. Pncantlco Hills, and so did
his son and graimV lldren. After ser
vice young Wlnthrop beckoned to his
grandfather und said he had a secret
for him. When Mr Hockefeller reached
tho boy's side and l'iit over in get the
message Wlnthrop said .
"drandpop. I've got a big kls for
you "
Mr. Itockefellei smiled, put his hand
Into his vest pocket, where li keeps hl
loose change, dug out a new nickel and
handed It to Ills grandson, who al
ready had his hand out. When the hov's
lingers clasped the coin he put his arins
around his grandfather's neck and gave
him a smack as the rest of the congregu
tion looki d on.
"Hell take rare of himself in this
w ot Id," said Mr. Hockefeller n he pat
ted the lad's head approvingly.
NINE KILLED IN A TORNADO.
Kemp (ily. Okln., Hits Only Three
lllllldlilUN StninlliiK Nov..
Di:nsos, Tex, May I'l -Nine persons
were killed and thirty-eight Injured and
Kemp City, llkla., right miles east of
Denlwin, was virtually destioyrd l.ut
ni, i,t i.i i.. .. i.i . i
".-." ' iwiiuiiui ii ini-ii rui a pant
three-onarteru of u mil.. ....
would ho rt built
Light persons were killed In the town,
whllu the other victim, a child, per
ished In the collapse of Its father's
home, just across the lied Itlver In
Texas.
TWO GERMAN SHIPS SUNK.
Steamers llel.e nnd IVrn Destroyed
hy n Siibniiirlnr.
Stopkiiolm, via London, Min ,1
Wind was biouglit here to-day thai the
(liiin.in steameis I lilu and I'.-i.i wnc
sunk by a submarine last night In the
lliiltlo off the southern co.iM of Capo
Oliini'
BLUE LAW STOPS
INVASION OF CITY
Seven ThnuHnnd Giumlsinen
Find That They Can't
Shoot on Sunday.
SILENT W.V11 flAMK SBKXItI UKS IAMiIXO HACK
Preparedness Show Shorn ofiOuo of Chief Objectives of
Thrills by Reform As
sociation.
Tim enemy landed and moved on New
Vork yesterday, advancing toward I
Sheepshend Hay. The United States
forces, retreating, engaged with tho ad
vance guard. It looked as though there
would bo ninny casualties, but In the
nick of tlmn h Kinu founiv Hiindnv i i m .
oi,rt J v , .. , i t ,r f " Hl,,,,,,m'"t received from llrlt-
Obsenance Association stepped forwarder, hcadnuarters on the Tigris: The
nnd commanded that not a shot should . junction was effected by a force of Uus -
be fired, for It was tho Sabbath. , slan cavatrv u-hl,.t. n,
Tho association was obeyed. In spite llo, f rrini on he
of .i. .... i ... i ..t . """ 'ii. flnrrtnge on the rlgnt
of tho fact that a grand stand full of bank of the TiL.n ..hnt i.n.v..u..
people had paid to see . thrilling en-
coumer. with tlio crack of rules, me
rattle of machine guns and the boom
of artillery. It was obeed becnu.
un uuirrrN nrrnnBOn 10 navt l'oiirn in
' r' """" v-""1-'
"uu"' ' ' ' '
hliin laws of tv, Hinte. first n.issed In
KSfi and twice revlse.l bv the Legls-
.,,,.
lalure-
l.nw That tom.rl -hoMtlnic.
i.w i 11 ill Monprii noonnx.
It is section !,111 of the Penal Code.
vvhlpli rirni'l.la -
"Public Sports on Sunday-All shoot-
. .
mg. hunting, fishing, playing, hoe r.ic-
Ing. gaming or other public sports, ex-
erclses or shows upon the flrrt dav of
,tlie week and all noise disturbing the
,,cace 0f t. day are prohibited
T1, ,aw ., Ur((,r t ,iail
sh;,ro ln l'revenllng the programme
from being carried out. Supt. Heorge II
""' w,'m mroiign me perrnnnanoe.
. i'lay battle over the
sunbaked plain, deploying, charging. r-
treating, but they did It In silence.
H.i
.ll
1 10 comprel.ensiv trass nnd
'ill ie it...
' .Te l.;st and the guardsmen were
"'" " t'nir exclamation of '
WtiwaIl -'lljomtimnt.
""'I -'Itu'Z.' fWm
.... w. .1.1
bidden bv those who warned of thi. lau-
In fact the purpose of the warning was'
to close the exhibition for the day. Hut
Slanager Dillenback lefused to give full
obedience.
(innriU' lloiiil l'ln.
There was an aviation programme.
and a good one, and there was music by'
a .National liuarn hand In the grand
stand, actimr. however, .is . iviltuiis fur
.anonai iiiiard ouicers gave v.irlou-
reasons lor expurgating the noise of the ,m armv, which advanced along the
manieuvres. Some said it was done in roast of the III. irk Sea from the Can
obedience to the law. Othns s:,, tho casus and wh! h was constdet.ihly recn
law did not apply to nulitl.i organlzn-' forced from the sea. captured Trcblzom!
tiens acting under orders from tin. com- on Apt 11 1. and at latest reports was
mainline Heneral, but that It had been nt Pl.it.ina. about sixteen miles west of
obiyed through courtesy to Comnr.s. Trehizoiul Holding this Important
sioner Woods, who had been placed Itijlll.ick Sea port, the Kusslans control'
a baipreillc.imeiit by having the old law ' Armenia s outlet to the sea and Its'
put before lilm at u lime when all (ourts source of .supplies ' '
were closed Adjt -Hen Stoteslmry was! The aitond ltussian army, which took
of the opinion that the courts would su-, Frzerum lifter some bird fighting on
tain tho original plans for the touru.i-1 February 17. has advanced very slowlv.
nient. A portion of it Is still engaged with
it !s true that the JW forbids , the Turks In the neighborhood of llnl
parades and music on Sunday." he said, I urt. lvlne about half way between'
"but I am Inclined to mink that In a Hrzerum and Tieldrond, vvhlln a much
ciisn of this kind, whi te service was larger force Is .nlvainlng on Kr.lngan '
voluntary, u liberal inlerpr'tatlon would, ami at latest irpoits hail captured Main-
b. placed upon It. However, this
only nil offhand opinion. I have not ev-!
anilned closely the action taken to-davl Once Hi.. Hassans ate able to reach
and am not speaking ollldally." 1 Hrzlngan they will have missed the
Major-Hen o'ltyan. rommanillng tho mountainous distil. -t of Armenia Up.
New Voik glial d, dicllmd to flKlit ! sttiiKHH stands on th" urslern edge or
against the order, however. Ile admitted J a rich, well watered plain through which"
that he had known of the existence of! runs the western Cuphiates It s ,-m ,
the law and said that It had been I Impoi taut . ily of about l.'.niin Inliabl
brounht to bear on him before wiien . taut", liiipoit.ini i. in ipally lu cnusi. t
plans were made for sham battles or ', " nullbiry In .i.l.iuai lers vvllh ling.,
target practice on Sunday .barracks and niilit.i! f.n mriis
Divided Into Two forces.
The niaiiiruvres were a lacllcal dem
onstration of an advance action. The
guardsmen worn illvidul Into two groims.
one representing the rear guard of the
.. . eiir.n linn me om. r
the advance guard or tho enemy at
tacking. The defenders wero the lilghth
mid Ninth Coast Ai f tilery roinmaiiils,
under Hen I, I vusiin, C. A, C. vvlth
tin. sii,.n.ui iiu'i iiimi i.t .,',7,', ' "
Fir? II , t I n of i '"o ,,"
n , J , ,, ' f'-Vi.""'.'
I lie enemy Was intuit, nn of lhe tun
brigades of I'. fanny In New Voik and
llrooklyu. Tin. First llilgade, under
Hen. Heoige It Dj.r. had lhe Seventh
Twelfth, SlNU-nllith und Seventv-llrst
Inl.mlry in iiiiriils The Second lliigadi.
had Hen John I' llddy In command
with the l-irst I i. i, Artillery, First
Cavalry ISeglmeit. Headipiarters De
tachment and First Armored Motor
I'llgade, Third Ainliiilance Corps, Finn
Field Ambulance Company mid First
Migiiai i nrps,
Tin. iniiineiivres weie followed ,v n I
levlow by Hen. oilyan Tho giiardstnen
mailo a tine showing, punching p.isl In
company front, hues straight and men
stepping out briskly in spile of their re
cent In burs. There was no music, in
obedience lo Hen (I'Kyan'H orders, save
In one Instiim c The eighth Coast Ar
tillery went by playing "(Inward, Chris
tian Soldiers," evidently In tho belief
that gospel hymns wvre not Included In
the musli! forbidden b the law.
Th" piogranime of aviation came next.
Mr. Ulllenback onl d It to no nhe.nl
in., - .' ii nn- inn it,
If they want to do anything," ho said. I
"I might us well go the rest of tho way i
and give tl ople what they paid for."
..... .... .. l'i x'ki .Minn'
lllf II 14 IllOMHIA,! ,itnl.Kl.......
llinr wii" on iii-iuii oitllie lieuveeu a (
fleet of biplanes and mi nunnreil inptrir
car, linn no machine gun duel In the sky.
Instead, Baxter Adams cut some sedate
Continued on Thlid 'aye,
RUSSIANS REACH
BRITISH ON TIGRIS
Muscovite Cavalry Makes Hold
Dash to Hog-ion of
Kut-ol-Ainara.
i
Czar's Caucasus Forces
Is Achieved.
Sprctol Cihlf tin patch to Tnr. Six
iON!Mf. May 21. UuRslan nnd llrlt-
. forces have joined hands In Mcsopo-
tamla
Olllclnl Information to till" effect came
tn-nhrh, tfiiit it... i.... .. .... .i. .,..-I
mttt soutli of Kut-el-Amar.!, which was
r(.,vntly 8llrii(,,1(1(.r(.,, ,,v H MtMl K,lr.
rlson to the Turks
' The Husslan eavalry Joined (Sen. finr-
Ti"RP ,ros " il '"'' '!
turous rMe," i.,t. olllclal statement says.
lhe opeiatloti l one of the epoch making
events of the war
Military critics here have predicted
for "mo that the ilraud Duke
0xtrj11,. )fft W,B wou,,,
come to the relief of tho hard pressed
Ilrltlsh frirres li t...w,n,i.i v,.
now ever. Had any Idea that the June-
tion would l. eiT.'Cted so soon. Ilrltlsh
hopes with regard to the Mesopotamia!!
situation were d.tmpeiii-il recently by the
TnrLi.i. . ..... r.. ....nl..
reenforced, was making a firm stand
aKaill1.! me 1CIIS41HI1S inn
was even as-
'V.' " "Z"" , ...
10. nights 'Itlfi.il ltussian War Oftlee
statement makes no mention of the June-
tion. Imt with reference to the Caucasus
" """"" merely states that the llns-
rootnn ()f M,; Thr. liritl'"li ottlciiU
bulletin follows
Hen Lake n pmis that on the 19th
enemy evacuated the liethalessa ad
vanced imsltion on the right bank of
the Tigris. Hip Horrlnse. following
up the enemy, attacked and carried
the Dujallam redoubt The enemy s
still holding the S.inna.v yat position
on the left bank of the river.
A force of ltussjiin cavalry has
Joinrd Hen. Hornnge nfte.r a bold and
adventurous ride
FIVE ARMIES .V FIELD.
I'nr' Forres rr tl I tatriilr
the llngdnil ltnllMa.
Since the capture of the Ilrltlsh army
of alsmt 10.000 cooped up at Kut-el
Am.ir.i the aitipalgn In
Mi.i.oniit.i mliv
-
i . t. ... ..... i i..-.. i. ii..
.iiini in.i ii. r in-. i-ni.i'ii in;- iiiinuiy.
....... . . . .
- "at 1. becomes one of the maJor
opeiatlo... of the war. mote Important
,,, , UlM tl iml.MKn at Verdun
" "- Kr-iich front
Minor
for the first time since
the beginning of the war. la serlouslv
threatened bv the alll... forces Five
,. . ... .
ltussian armies, of whose stiength noth
ing Is known but which undoubtedly
are formidable hi Armenia ate advanc-
lK toward the Mesnpotnmlan plain and
unless checked by the Turks two of them
. .. . .
lti gliinlng.it the north, the first Itus-
s;aliat:in i.Mav ii.). which Is about fifty
miles from llrzlngan
For several wnks the ltussian official'
leports of the ptogress In this in luhbor
IiihiiI have spoken of fighting "in the dl-1
. .-.II,,.. ..I I',
A ihltd ainiy. seemmgl,- f ,nsl,ler.
al le size, Is appro.irhiiig Diarbekr. h.iv.l
iiik ii,..-.-.-.. in,- .w iiuwuiiit r.ii rus
,,,iain nun:., bv w .e ..f n.,-i i
llltlls What its exact noslinm Is wiUnill.isi having brought nutlets t.i a
do not know as the ltussian War nfilce ,
reports are linlclliiiii. on tins noint i
Dh.ibekr lies al the head of navigutloi ! dciiainl that ho ha.l advised ijen. Scotl
I''- Tigris and tliiiefoie ,ls is l olat the eonf. mires In 111 Paso that the
most rrltl al ,.liit of defenc fm- he 1 Mcu.an Hovernnient would . ,ve
Dh.ibekr lies al the head of navigutloi '
Turkish high command. It Is tin. meet-
liu plaii. of several Impoitant routy
and Is moie than twice the size of
lhzlng.in. iince the ltuslans rearh
lll.'lliiekr llli.y would be able to get
astride of lhe Hagdad railway In u few
days march. A good road runs from
Diarbekr to the neighborhood of Neslbln.
the latter town being on the ll.igdad
in. nl
This railway, as prevunislv noled, Is
uie iiiiini line or i-ntnmunicatlnn for the
Turkish aruiles operntlug In Masopotamla
Ill tin. defence of llagilad. Tlie line,
howi vei. is not entirely completed, und
judging from the latest reports available
It has not been liulli further eastward
than lias-i'i-.Mii. or perhaps to Atnude.
From tliat point there Is'a conslderablo
stretch across th. plain to Mosul, on the i IKm. " '',"'' " "'acnines. itoii
Tigris Fiom Mosul tumps, iniinltlons . lot lm,'1 '"'"''s-'Ht -biwu one of hl ,.
and supplies ran be sent down the Tigris' waiies when a mitrailleuse bullit
bv inflsorby boat. At Its eastern end ! u"'Ml lllm' l'l''"'lK M liearl,
the railway has be u built up the Tlcrls Second Lieut Ilolllot btousht down
for u short dislnncn tn Tekrl but 1 III" Hrsl Heitnan aeroplane, a Fol.kei
despite unusual efforts on the nart of I'm
...in.- ... in,- .hi in. in.-, rnueu ion
beginning of the war, the. line has not
yet bee,, completed In Its full length
and theiefoie It Is a great handicap
n. III. ...... . I... I
iiiiiii ii ii iti .v I'niiii in i
.p iiiiiii iinoni a iiiuiit n ago onlyi
vague repot ts reached America regarding
the ltussian operatlo'! in Persia. These ,
reports have now rrystullized Into uHlclal
Confirmed on e'econd Vage.
ENTENTE TELLS WILSON '
PEACE TALK IS USELESS; ,
FIGHT TO THE BITTER END
Viviani's Statement Confirms Washington's Advices,
That Allies Believe Germany Sees the Handwriting
on Wall German Embassy Denies Crisis.
Wabhinuio.v, .l,,y 21. "Uermanv
must fight on to the end nnd cannot es
capo retribution by useless appeals to
neutrals for peace."
This Is the Hnswcr of the Kntento Al
lies to the steadily Increasing peace talk
which has reached olllclal circles hero
frcni Herlln. The Allies' position, It Is
explained, has been made perfectly clear
to 1'resldent Wilson, and this Is the
prime reason why tho President's efforts
to net as mediator In the war have been
connncii to more or less academ e utter-
ances on the general subject of peace In-
I tad of taking the form of a definite
! Proposal to discuss the ending of the
w',
, V!" l,h" 'TTr
Lansing h.ivo been Informed conllilcn-
tialiv from Murr .Ins., t n,.. i:i..ie
l-'ldt,ils that peace proposals now lire
out of the. question. Tho time Is not
ripe. It Is explained, and the tlmo will
not bo iipo until tlermany's military
dwmlri.inco has been completely broken.
I'rnee Tnlk IIUponrnBril.
I'eallzlnjr that this position assumed by
tne Allies might tend unfavorably to In
lluenie public opinion In neutral coun
tries, the chancelleries In London, Paris
and Petrogr.ul have discouraged all talk
,.' ' 0 proposals, iraj aiuiuoe oi me
r.iitente. however, has been explained to
"u ' ' ' ' ' ' ' -n en
c; bl" 1 who wlln fu" 'anctlon of
tlle Kntente Covernments made a
"tateinent In Ivtrograd on Friday In
which he said that the Allies stand solid
a "light to a finish," that they Intend
ti break Uermany's heavy hWurd and
' yj ' Urging ilern.any's
nastisement.
Diplomatic circles here fully realize
thu Importance to be attached to this1
olllclal utterance made through the
French Kmb.-issy In ivttograd. It Is in
fact the first statement from an nuthorl -
t.itive source setting forth the entente's
r..nl. ... f tr... i. ...
- l" " i"ul ti ' 1'iiiip.
about the end of the struugl
Viviani's statement has added Import
ance hero fiom the f.K-t that It exactly
coincides with the Information which Is
understood to lmv been communii.iteil
both to President Wilson and Se-ret.iry
l.inslng. It explains why Secretary
Lansing Is understood to believe that
any piopos.il for mediation now would
simply vitiate the position which the
United States may logically hold when
the time to discuss peace finally doe?
arrive.
"lliiiults rltlng on the Wnll."
The Kntente Allies have translated
HeriiiMiiy's H-ace pleas Into the ti sailing
that the lmprlal Hovernment now st.(.s
the liaiidwrltlm: on Hie w-nll nnil u tnli.
i...- .......... e.. H iK n i.... ... - a.
'UK IH.-.1PM1 in tin 111 .nn, iiiii- in ao enori
... .....i i t-i... .in...
i i. ii nn- ii.ii i iiv i.iiieine .iues
.,i.i, ,k., ,i. .I.O.. 1....
c .Mm in. h y n , .1 , ly gro ;
T ! ."', , at he ? V, L.l o
break slowh but "u elv tnn nX
pnw.r by means of th.lr additional ie-
"mlrc,a backed by the control f the
se.m is null iM-miio.im lo near iruu
lllste.nl of being disposed to eolls.der
peace (iroposals the Kntente, It s p.
plained, Is only preparing for additional
concentrated iffortn to press then ad
vantage So convinced are lhe Kntente dlplo-
nuts of Hentian.v 's appro idling weak
ties.s, of the final stages of the struggle,
that they eprt the pe n e tall: from
Herlln to become moni and mote ion.
uounced and emphatic until It ends in
a pt.irtii.il appeal to the neutral nations
to use thep itilltience against the i-rush-Ing
of the iVntral Powers
This opln. in Is. of course, trictlj
partisan, and so far there Is no 'mp.ir
ti.ll evidence here to show that the
Central Poei are In any such "traits.
This Hnvermeiit lia.s, however, n-mved
CARRANZA CABINET
IN ALL DAY SESSION
IMmmisn
Inter nntioiml
Sitnu-
tion Olii'1'i.oii Sn "!li
l.ition Critiiiil."
Virei.l '.l'if lr ittr. In Tin m
JlKvlin i'itv. May 'Jl.- First liin-f
I'arranza railed his Minltii to a in si
Ing early this morning vvlilih lasted until
late 111 the dav. The .Ministers afterward
deiiltieil lo s.iv whin matters were dis
russeit, ii It I ii ni i: Ii inlmitliiig that Ih" in
ternational situation was the chief topic
Tin" capital Is ipnet and .uiiusi nient
pl " ",r" tllr",";",
IM.illon- lu tween
Vli'Nlio and
I lie
the
slates ore
uiis.itlsliictory.
cros.niE of Anieilran so .II.mvn ni Ho
ri ltlc.il point, according to a statement
attributed to Hen. i Hue. on to-day. He
dciiainl that he ha.i iiilvisi d Hen. Scotl
pet mission fm lhe .iosslng n! tins po'nt
Wasiiinutiin. ..May 21. Hen. Hag),
! Scott said to-night vv lien asked t egarilmg
Heiif i Hirudin's stal. mem Unit Mi xiro
i would not Klve pet llllShlou fill Vlllioiiau
!uo.r - to rtuss nt lloiulll.is. ami he li.nl
mi advised Hen Scott: 'There is no
' until In that statement "
,
JOFFRE'S CHAUFFEUR KILLED.
Ilolllot Main In Kluht With
'"
l.le
Five (.'ernillii Apron.
P.VIIis. Mil) II Second LU lit Heorgi-H
Ilolllot, the iiutoniobile rarer iuuI aviator,
,w'a,K. k!" " ''''f ',,K'""''1 ' "rial
lliacnilie. on .Marcn .II, In HilUle-Alsuoc
- - " "..f in-
" " Krand pilx race of the Aulomn.
h'11'' -iub of France In 1!H2 and 1 1' 1.1.
At the outbreak of ,,e war he joined
flux Aiilxiitnlv n l'nnu ..! ....I a i
nv- 4 ii .xiiii't'i i - in pi-, ii mi nr 1.H it inn
iiiriiij, in i. uuir nan oriven III the
grand prlx of H I rnirled out many
ilungeroiis nilssloiis. ,
It Is said thai he acle.1 as chauffeur .
for den, .lonre ror a time, Lu-r he I
entered tho aviation service,
10 uvhlllon service. 1
official reports from Its own anents tend-'
lug to show that Germany Is bediming
to feel the effects of the "drag" much I
more deeply than Is generally known.
Information has been received showing
that tho failure of thin mmmer's crop
in Germany would spell unprecedented
disaster. Heroic efforts aro Isiiw made.
In Oermapy to deal with tho food prob
lem, which would bo Involved In thl
contingency, but no far no solution Is In
sight.
Herman officials who are now devoting
their time exclusively to offisetttng tho
tffects of tho Ilrltlsh blockadn and pro
viding food for tho populace hnve marl"
a number of mistakes, with the result I
that growing hostile criticism has been
aroused.
Merlons Mlslukr Heported.
For example, nil the pigs in flermany
weio killed off by order of the authori
ties heoauoe It was calculated that there
would not be enough of certain kinds of
food for the populace) nnd the pigs too.
The ol!le!al, It now develop, made a
serious mistake. There wax enough food
available for both and the general
slaughter of pigs proved tinnecemary nnd
has aroused the Ire of tho Herman
farmers.
Other mistake made by Oerman of
ficials In wrestling with the con
stantly mote dlftlcult food problem
have been reported hero from olllclal
sourcie-. These reports, however, are
coupled with the assertions that the Ger
man nlllclaln are showing remarkable
foresight and prudence In dealing with
tins dlfllcult problem. They are obtain
ing results which, official here believe,
could well serve as a lesson to any cnun
tiy in times of dire distress.
Naturally no srr.ip of tils Information
has escaped the Kntinti- capitals. It
e plains why Ureat Britain l tightening
th" blockade more nnd more. It like-
wie explalnn why the Kntento translates
(lentnny's willingness for r'aco Into
1 Mgiial foreboding the end of the war. '
President Wilson cannot make nnV
i,..t..i. i '
I ..inline jirnMisu jor peace now, n is fx-
Plo'r.ed. without making the United
Stale appear In lh role of a vrotector
of the Central Powers so far :is the
Kntente Al es aie concerned. Oermnpv
bay her jieace proposals on the grouul
mat tne war lias ncen won ny ner ana
that furthtr fighting cannot change the
verdict. Therefop- the Kntente answeis
"fight on.
Virtually nil of (lie Information rearh
Ingiete which tells of (Smn.iny'x grow
Ing dlMress is tlntlv denied by the Her
man Kinhnssy
AiCiiidiiu to lb., ft.ticin vie.w .v.
Ilrltlsh blockade has proved a falluie, Ju'"t across tho ravine, on the west
the food supply Is sufficient except for''r" "'opes of Le Molt Hoitmii. the Hor
a "henlthy" shortage of meat and Her- rnf"!1 made, a violent attack n wav.-.-..
man resources ale not being sapped to a brigade of effectives ,.n,- C.Ond
any marked degree IVace talk Is ex- "."'" Tile French tnltrallleti.. , l( i.,J
plained on the ground that Herm.mv ile-' "" assault and French .if,, , ,,nmd
sliei to see the "useless slaughter" ended i ,v" 1 "and grenades pmiirii ., It , t i ,
thle.-iti'iiml ti..iw.li..u ...,.i
BIO PEACE MEET THIS WEEK.
Wilson nnd Tnft lo dilrrss No-
llonill srinlilnue.
Almost every state In the Pnlon and
all the larger cltbs will be officially i -p.
resented at the tltst national aKsmblate
of the League to l-.nforce Pi lee, to be
held m Washington on May 2'i and
Many fiovf rnor" and Mavu'i- w ,1 he
prisent and others have appointed dele
gates. President Wil-on will make the prlnrf.
pal sjeech on Saturday evening. IJx
Prisidi'iit Taft will preside and nwk an
adilret.s mi Friday morning. Secretivv
of War Haker will speak Frldi- eve
ning The nanus of l.Snfl delegates hav,
bei n regisiereil md many 'm'ven.tlei
anil . l'locif, iiaiubers of commerce,
boards of trade and other organi7i
tions, including hur lies and labor
unions, will send repiesentatlves.
T
AUSTRIAN EMPEROR
BACKS POPE'S APPEAL
I'liiiicis .loNf.pli Ht'iioi'tcil Set
oniliiij.' Kfforf-. to Curli
I' Mont 'Attacks..
s.frmr ' ,,1.1' fiffiiife, tu Tnr. in.
ItnMf, May II - The correspondent
of Tin: Sps learns rroin ., dlplomatl
soiiue that Pope lleneillct's appeal to
llie Kaiser to dlscniiiiiuie submarine at.
t.uks on unarmed ships is likely to he
Mlccrssfiil, provided that the Allies agr. e
to is.. Milmi.inni s i vi iisvely tn irgu
lar naval waifare
Vatliim rinlts are opi.mlsii w:'h
leK.Ull in the O'ltlimk because Kmpiror
I'laiiiis Josi'pb is said to be s mili'ig
the Pope's i-dotts in striving to over. olllB
tiie opposition in uie Kaiser, who llrst
Insisted that the Allies ltft tin. block
ade. but now is le exacting, a,, oid
Ing to icport
GERMANS SEE NO U. S. RIVALRY.
Ileiiil Sn Xinrrleons rr ni
nplorlnu World I'rnile,
sifr-fn ( .ihtr If.iiilri pi Tl i ii Si .
V visrimn vi. via London. Mnv I't
Despatches from Heiiin state that dur
ing a debate in. the Iteiohstag Cinler
S l.iiy of State Itlchter, speaking on
tlie coniiiiircuil measures to be nm,-.-.
taken after the war. said :
i "Then, will In- an urgent ne. d of i
large amount of merchant tonnage "
i -eimi iioiiieiii, rioglesslve. s.ml h
I'T'i'1 "V" (itrm""" 111,1 ","
to fiar Amerli. in competition, adillng
rviiieiirans navo inaile no efTort
capture International commerce, but lia-e
lestrlcteil themselves to the more piolli
able tn.iiiufacturi. of war material. '
GERMANY TO SEIZE FOOD.
Iluoilearallt Hives Ihnnrrllor
Pinters of 1'onnx'Hllou,
P'rt'il I'liblr ttitrh to Tnr Si v
l!iiTTi:iiP.vi, via London, Mav ii -
Herlln advices renoit thai iieioiini in.
t ,., lf. ,M Iriistlr "s ,i,. , ,sn -,.
f 'r roiiiUei'liilng tl i food short lire x
recent i
..... .
powers the Imperial Chancellor to em,
llscate and dlslrlbille nil f Mulls 1
rattle foods mh well as raw materials at
prices in bo regulated bv himself
The btniee on h.i's i.. r..,i i
from oue.ouai ter iioiiml weeklv io nilleiv
t-i m,iii
FRENCH STORM
QUARRIES ON
VERDDN FRONT
Jtctaku Hnudromoiii Posi
tion Which Germans Cap
lured a Month Ago,
W1X TWO TIWNCHKS
WEST OF TIIK 3LEUSK
Teutons Gain Ground on
Le Mort Jlommc anil
Hold Hill Slopes.
TWO A IK RAIDS AUK
JIADK UrOX DlMvIKK
Hundred JJombs Dropped
on the City, Killing Sev
eral Children.
'Kiwi Vabtf l)tnp,ite, to Tnr slN
Paw, May 21. tn a merles of en
gagements last night and to-day on both
banks of the Meuse, In which by turns
both Hermans and French assumed th
aggressive, tho French rcocuipied th
Haudromont quarries, on the right Jj.ink
of the Meuse. wllcli they st ,x month
ago, and rei-apture.l two trenches on the
; v ,, '
-iiauiouri load
between lllll 304
""" '"'' "Avocouit, on the loft
batik, Thus opened the fourth month of
the battle beforo Verdun,
The Hcrniatm mado a further cam 1
nh.l.l .... I A I i, . i-.c.
- .....v wo ..in ri lioinme 111 tile eolirsn
terrific fighting wii.. h is still In
' Progn-s all along the front from tho
"!" d'Avorourt to the Meuse
The attacks delivered by the. Hermans
"" "v west bank of the river to-day In-
"- nr.ivy assault nn the Irene a
, PUIoiih just east of HIM 04 on thu
slopes of the ravine separating that lull
irum i. .viori iiomme. T .s ,is.iul'
K.une.i tor tne attacking par'v n hrlef
footing In on.! of the. first lin,. French
trenches, bu tho success was only
momentary nnd a countir .nt n u i.
'coveted the nosltlon for tin. .'i..n,ii
I -. ..nn i mi, ji i -i i io
' work of breaking down w
I .neaiiw line tho 1'reticli artilli rv pmir.,l
in .i volume or me on i
i-rn.,iii oo!
'iimns, which were moving fntw.iril i
support the nttaclilng litn s.
effect that thes roliimtiv H,iH fnrcnl
back tn the i ear.
t llllrrlrs lla i'il pi u i d .
The ipiaines recovered Cre i.-'i
"ii the right bank .if the t., i . u o:n
-e.eiity yards south of the II i ulio-itout
farm und are on a ridgo i ithwe.t i f;
the Thlautnoiit farm, (in , i u; tho
Herman romni.ind hurled n M.g nulv
of Savon troops against the I n . tm.
sltlons In tlii'e rimirr es n. . i. , (,
lighting the Henii.iiis o. , . rt of
lhe positions, . ompletiiig tl ijn of
the quarries the following n g Tin
Heimuns at nine took up the strength,
enltig of the ciptured positions To-d.iv,
under rover of lie.ivy artillery ftre tlin
Fuiicli retook tho posltioi s and ao
tured eighty of the defetidets
I wo -aids by (in m:ln n ip' uie s nn
t Dui.kltk ire announced tn-nigh' In tl,.
first of tins... made la-t night, four pe .
sons weie killed and fllteen wi.u'ule.l In
the second, ,,t noon lo-dav. i hundred
ooiubs win- thrown on 'he s I'mrbs of
the i ty. killing several . Ii ldr.-., ,i 1 t,v
snidli-s und wounding some twe jirr
"ni. " I'lltv -three allied ner -n. ,e, t
...e .-art nil out a t.-j ts.il tuani-ir. .u
"f Hum. in camps b.hliid t'e f i
The romtlllinlllli'. Issued In the VV (
run, e to-night follows
On the left bank of tin M.-ise the
battle roiitlnueil all day w i gn it
feroiity on the fiont ion, pi si.i , .
twrill tile Hols d'Avnenuri ,1 il hf
Meuse.
hi tlie Fides of the Ksl es-ll , ,. 1T-
tiniil an attack IiiiikI.. I bv ...ir i ,ps
en.iblnl us tu raplute tw.. t-e, m
from the Hermans. A s n i vv r.;
which the ninny had u. . ,p . ,1 miu'W,
of Hill " 7 was destroyed bv artillerv
Immedt.iii.ly east "f ll'll .'P I ip.
in-lily I. nun bed an att.i I, mi our poo
Hulls. Alier peneliatnig m iineii ar ly
our llrst lino tirnch he vi.is , .mpietcly
llliVell oil!.
I'll the vopes vii.s, ,' t., Mor.
llmnnii. ii violent otleusive i.t. ii no.
ileriaken by nn enemv br g i le is
.iiu'sIimI by tlie fire of on, m.iiau.
lenses .md rounti r .ci i, i,s n m(r
Kriii.iiln rs llnemy cidum. - wh U
followed tin. waves of the assail i wen.
taken under tin. Ilro of our b n i-r e,
.md wile furred lo fall ha, 1. ..v.,r,
tin. rear.
On the tight bank i f i' . M
ailillery dini was mi v I. . a
seiioi of I .uilailiiii.il! I '
of a lively atiark our t..i.i
i,i eil
th ipiarrii's or 1 1 . 1 1 1. 1 1 . : 1 1. -. e,
li.ul I n stmngly org.in,r,i b
enemy Wo made eighty pi . .
raptured luiir mill allien.-.
Their weie Inteiniiile' .nt ' .
Hons on tho rest of" the f..u
Hernia,, aeioplanrs have m . .
situ e esleiilay two liiiiiiliii.ini
lhe legion of Inuikiik Tw. '!
'I
Ilitown on lhe evening f
killed I'niir persons an, I ..i
teenitllels Tn-il l . (owrilil
M u
' I. i
ntller eluiliy sill ull'oll Ihli w .i' i t
bombs nn the siilniih-' .'i 1 .
Two soldlel" ,llld sevrlal ri Id . n ...
killed und twrtny p. i .,. n
i hi in lr. I
Allied mil. planes stiit n .. ir
thu eiieniy miirhines n .... i, ..
bringing dovin two of tin in , i s
they weir leturulng to the r i
liiinieili.il.iy after the tlrt I ti...
men. a gioup of llfty-t 1,,-eo lie
lltitisli ami Helgtan ., . r-. . j . I . ( . . c ,K
over Hie Hiiinan riiinps ,n W t n 'g.
and Hlllstelles, on win. h .". n
were thrown.
During tin' day Herinan neriipl.i. c
threw tlfleen bombs on Helfort The
materia, damage was Insignificant
Herman .marks on Lo Mint llontiiu
wore roiiinnied during Inst night, mi nr
Ibesc iiniuiis neing liierknl In tin.
. Vrimiii b.iri:l!?e Urn fiventit I I n ....!..
... .. i.,..i. ..... . .. : '
i. jiii ono "I wiuv.li u i- rencii urat m
