NIGHT
EXTRA
'FINANCIAL EDITION
ibuenmn
iCrttger
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOI. 1I.-NO. 215
1'UH.ADELPIIIA, MONDAY, MAX 22, 1910.
CortRIOIIT) 101(1, ItT THE rotUO LlDOM COMriNT.
PRICE 0203 GENOJ
ALLIED DRIVES
ON ALL FEONTS
TO HELP ITALY
i
It-Rome Announces Enemy's
W Offensive Is Checked Every-
Where on Alps
ITALIAN CABINET MEETS
Military Situation Leaves King
Victor's Staff Ferlectly Tran
quil, Official Statement Says
nOMD. Mny 22.
After a protracted council meeting at
. "i..i u raMnrt ministers. General l'aolo
1 Morrone,' Minister of War, Issued a state.
mnt concerning we i "" e.i......u.. ...
eonifcctlon with the Austrian oftenslv,
wlilch will "leave tho Italian supreme com
mand perfectly trnnqull."
The plans of llio Italian mllltn-y authori
ties cannot bo divulged nor dhcussed, but
It can bo stated that mensures have been
idopted to copo with any posslblo situation
In addition to direct action on the Italian
front it 'a expected that a general offen
sive movement ngalnit the Austrlans will
i made on other fronts, especially In the
Balkans and In Rusrln, and In addition a
tontehiporanoous attack Is expected to be
nrUnff by Italy's allies In France,
Meanwhile, military critics, Including
Jneral Morrone, ndvlso restricting tho
.Ullan front by abandoning the far ad
vanced positions In order better to be able
to repulse the Austrlnns, whoso forward
move, along the Trentlno front already has
lasted a week. This notion Is a repetition
of vhat Austrian generals did more than
0. century ago, when Napoleon attacked
Austria from the Isonzo River.
, The Austrian start It Is believed hopes
to Invade Italy along the Adlge River val
ley, thus forcing the Italians to abandon
thtlr offensive on tho eastern front for fear
of having their main" army taken In tho
rear.. For this attack Austria, which had
JO divisions on tho Italian front, aug
mented them by 12, six of which were
drawn from Serbia and six from the Rus
sian front.
The Austrlans lost 20,000 In killed,
nounded and missing in these first three
aa of their offensive in the Tyrolese
Alps according to Borne dispatches today.
Their losses for tho last four das are be
k llevevl to have been almost equally as large.
She hospitals at Trent are reported filled
rllh Austrtnu wounded. Hospital trains
are now proceeding to Bolzano nnd smaller
towns, where the barracks have been trans
it jjiormea uuo nospuais.
i (mmunlcatIon says:
" i$ThB Austrlans began their offensive
jJt(lJt"Kt equal Intensity on seven different
Sfw sectors, namely, the Ledro Valley, the
'v Bt Tollcgrlno Valley; Mnrmolatn, the
upper Cordovole.lthe head of tho Sec
bach Valley, thehelghts northwest of
Oorlila and Monfnlcouo.
Wherever tho Italian lines were strong
ly fortified the offensive failed. The
offensive succeeded at only one point
AMERICAN LEGION1, 0000
STRONG, TO FLY OLD GLORY
ON ALLIES' FRONT IN FRANCE
NEW YORK. Mny 22. Nine thousand
men of the United States-will fight under
the Stars and Stripes when the American
Legion take tho field against the Germans
in July, It Is stated here.
The battailous sail from Canada this
week, ami in tho bosom pocket of each sol
dier lies the American colors, to be hoisted
on .bayonet and over trenches n Belgium
and France,
Officers and men of the American Legion
training in Toronto are confident the great
offensive of the Allies will begin on July
MS. No attempt is made to conceal) this
report.
"he anxiety of the largo boly from the
United States to participate in the war Is
attested by Captain Edwin Bower Heaser,
212 Battalion, a staff officer whoso home
Is this city, who was forced to give up his
itudlo in Washington Square on an un
expected call to headquarters yesterday.
"We from the United States now num
ber more than 0000," Captain Hesser said.
"It was reported that we were to sail on"H
specified day last week, but thrft was not
Vue., We sail the week of May 22. For
many reasons the. date will not be an
nounced." C
. CaVtain Hesser Is a newspaperman and
rtlst, having drawn nnd painted most of
t;
( Contlnurd on I'aao Four, Column One
THE WEATHER
Formerly It was the function of this. cor
ner bf the page to growl at the weather,
And. reasons a-plenty there have been for
growling In tho past. Not now, however,
are protests in order, for one cannot but be
tatlsfted and3 optlmutflo oyer the' weather
fnlch Mr, Bliss has furnished. The weath
er of the last few days has been beautiful.
It lias been magnificent. It has been glor
ious. Inspiring, perfect.
Ten to one, It rains before the sun sets.
FORECAST FOR PENNSYLVANIA
iSffi. P.n a Fem Vl'covtrv in Solar Phualcs bu
WIU.IS X,, MOORU and IV, f. OAROTHBRB,
Sunday, May SB, and Monday, May to.
n. ieeek ?'" P"n Otnerally air, but toon
Kill oecoute miac((fc((. There toll! fie show,-
n the first days. It will be moderately
wol, but y rowing warmer,
Tuesday, May 30; Wednesday, May 31,
?ni Thursday, June J.Jt will become
airer Tuesday and Wednesday, and (here
wi ba a cheek In the rise at tehveratures.
Friday, June g, and Saturday, June 3.
'here will be showers Friday, and the week
toiff close fair, utith moderate temperatures,
QBNBitAZ, WEATHER MOVEMENTS
DUE'
A cool movement, due to develop in
Northwest United States May t7, will, be ft
wo4(rnle movement, preceded, by scattered
MuHderaAowerjr n Middle and Eastern
Wales and bringing air and 10 degrees
cooler weather generally.
A moderate to average movement, due
May it ioiij, cause scattered showers in
the Jforlhern States ayd bring 19 degrees
cooler weather in the same sections, with
Mile change In (he South.
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
lloudy tonight ai Tuesday, with prob
aoly ehowera; moderate eat to. south
winds,
LOST AHP SOUND
Wit Um, o4meId vtotst jm. 41mon4 centre.
iwess iA .in. r-hep a and Monument
' WKfc It," 'siiphfr rtni.-Gunk-sl r, Hsrt-
nulaS. niJti: eSunna 3M P- .
vw v&imt Ms m rsiM i wm n
DIES AS HE .STEERS NEW AUTO
End Corncs While Purchaser Takes
Lesson in Running Car
FOTTSVHAB, May 22.-Whlle Howard
hZTtT'l'. ", t,,e ,Jlua Mu"tlns? wa.
being taught to run an automobile which
f.t i trcco,n"y bou"ht by William H
traveled about five miles that tho Bteerlng
wheel was too unsteady for safety. He
touched Zlmmermnn on the hand and dis
covered that ho was dead.
Zimmerman's father, mother and sister.
Miss Ldna Zimmerman, a school teacher of
West I'cnn, were also In the car.
"VEltNON LOOKS JUSTLOVELY"
Mrs. Cnstlc, Back From Britain, Says
Hubby Hns Wings Now
NIJW YORK, May 22. "Vernon looks
juit lovely In his uniform"
This Is the latest report on Britain's
tcrpslchorcan aviator. His wife brought It
jestcrday on tho American liner St. houls
Mrs. Castle added that Vernon had been
assigned to n scouting division and ex
pected to go to tho front In about two
weeks.
Mrs Castle made tho round trip on the
St. I,ouls, spending a week with her hus
band nt the Upnvon aviation enmp.
"Vernon has his wings now," Is tho way
she expressed her husband's fitness to guide
a British war plane.
TWO SHIPS SUNK
FRENCH MAKE
GAINS ON BOTH
MEUSE BANKS
Recapture Part of Ground
Taken by Foe West' of
Dead Man's Hill
WIN TRENCH NEAR VAUX
German Attacks on Both Sides of
River Beaten '
Back
HUGHES VS. FIELD
FORESHADOWED IN
DELEGATE LINE-UP
Justice Denies Saying That
Roosevelt Would Win
Nomination
WILL ACCEPT, IS BELIEF
Democrats Already Begin Talk
of Successor for Supreme
Court Post
German Vessel Believed Torpedoed by
Russian Submarine
COPHNHACIEN, May 22. The German
stenmshlp Worms, of Hamburg, which has
been missing for several dnys, Is believed
to have been sunk In the Baltic by a Rus
sian submnrlno. .
The Swedish steamship Rosalind, 877
tons, has been sunk by a mine.
Suit Against Railroads Dismissed
WASHINGTON, May 22. The Supremo
Court today dismissed for want of jurisdic
tion the suit of the Bankers' Trust Com
pany of New York against the Texas nnd
Pacific Railway Company nnd tho New Or
leans Pacific Railway, both of Texas, for
foreclosure of a mortgage securing about
$3,000,000 worth of Income bonds nnd for
the appointment of a receiver,
Itooscvclt Bank Case Witness
WASHINGTON, May 22. Theodore
Roosevelt will testify as a character wlt-ness-for
Charles C Glover, president of tho
Rlggs National Bank, charged with per
jury In connection with two other olllciala
of tho Institution, It was announced today.
The Colonel will take tho stand tomorrow.
Ke-I'resldent Taft testified, for Glover last
week.
PARIS, May 22.
French counler-altncks have driven tho
Germans from positions on both bnnks of
the Meuso In a renewal of tho heavy fight
ing around Verdun, the Wnr Office an
nounced today.
German nttacks on both bnnks of the
river have been repulsed.
The heaviest fighting continued through
out yesterday, which marked the beginning
of tho fourth month of tho greatest battlo
In the history of the world
West of Dead Mnn's Hill tho Germans
made repeated attempts to widen tho gains
mado in Saturday's fighting. Hach German
nsnruilt met with an eruption of flro from
tho French guns that threw the enemy back
with severe losses.
Tho French, by a successful counterat
tack, regained a part of the ground lost
Saturday In this region The lighting ex
tended westward to the Avocourt wood,
where grenade combats continued through
out last night, the French occupying sev
eral blockhouses
On the Aist bank of the Meuse the
French carried out a successful nttack
against German positions near Vaux village,
capturing a trench
The Germans suffered heavy losses last
night in unsuccessful attempts to recon
quer the Haudromout quarries, captured by
tho French earlier la le day
Petition Asks Woman Cop in Chester
CHHSTKIl. Ta., May 22 The New Cen
tury Club today petitioned City Council to
appoint a policewoman to work among grls.
Mrs Henry Clay Cochrane, who also Is con
nected with the W C T lT boarding home
In Chester, told of minor girls coming to
tho home Intoxicated. Council promised to
consider the request.
WASHINGTON, May 22. "Justice
Hughes does not recognize irresponsible
rumors," the Supreme Court Justice an
nounced today through his secretary in
response to n press association story
quoting him as saying the Republicans
will nominate Theodore Roosevelt nnd
that "it is no use considering any one
else." Further comment vvns refused.
Justice Hughes has not talked to any
one. He has written several letters in
which he declared that he was not a
candidate, but it is generally, under
stood thnt he will accept the nomina
tion gladly if it should com to him.
He hns never said that he would not
accept.
WASHINGTON, Mny 22. Hughes against
the field!
That was the llnc-up today In the Repub
lican political situation.
Only CO of the 985 delegates to the con
vention, which meets in Chicago week after
next, remain to be chosen Favorite sons
hold 308 of those selected The others,
mainly, nro uiilnstructcd Rut tho poli
ticians here who have their "cars to the
ground" declare that a strong Hughes sentl
mont Is entertained by tho majority of these
unpledged representatives.
Conservative figures obtained from nn or
ganization which canvassed the sentiment
of tho elected delegates shows that there
are 411 delegates favorable to Hughes' nom
ination, nnd 228 favor Roosevelt. These
QUICK NEWS
'('ontlnuftl on t'nfcr Two, Column One
BRYAN WITH PRESBYTERIANS AT ATLANTIC CITY
'
H-v;$fe
.eaaKSu&t sf !"" ' t .,
!-,'f? -i iflB , .mk
m ? t'lLWMm.!J v -xsssL. s'W: ., a j- -
L -. ... . T 'V. A .. I'WW. .j.. . !lT. . J --w .- AUMJHttAlAVMM
L,a rtww w.w ftwwwwwy.-.ftwyw-v avkw.vw.a"w -..w- - " - - t
A.y.viK-sV'.yiHA am 'jviAsyty'-
rf WMv'-fr99&w vsik X,vfs&Air
rhota by Harper :
Left to richt are Doctor Fismer, W. J. Bryan, the Rev. Dr. John A, Marquis, moderator of he Assembly; Dr.
i W. H. Roberts, stated clerk, and the Rev. II. M. Mellen.
MEXICAN CAUGHT HERE
TAKING U.S. PROPERTY
HELD AS POSSIBLE SPY
Swarthy Man, After Hanging
Around Receiving Station,
TaHes Navy Yard Package.
Nabbed by Expressmen
CARRIED GUN AND "JACK"
;
Attempt to abstract from the express
room of the Reading Terminal a package,
valued at J1000 and consigned to the Phila
delphia Navy Yard, was Interrupted early
today1 tiy two express employes. The man
accused of the attempted theft Is under
arrest and la being held at City Hall for
IdentlflcatloiV the police say he Is a Mexican
and his desire to obtain Government prop
erty may be due to the present crisis.
Harrv Carson, the name given by the
prisoner, is believed to be fictitious. He,
cave two adre&es after his arrest, one on
Green street and another on Falrmpunt
avenue, likewise regarded as fictitious by
the nollce The prisoner's appearance Is
that of a Spanish-American and when
searched he -was found to be armed. He
fs of swarthy complexion, with jet black
hair and long lnk mustache and a droop.
Ing black sombrero,. He does not speak
Unellsh clearly.
Harry M. Slaner,tof I9 North 2d street,
foreman of tUa American Kxpress Com
pany at the IStb nd Commerce streets re
ceiving station. 'first saw the manvester,
"ay. The sUVr Appeared to pi eveine;
the packages aVthey lay on the platform,
but when approached sauntered to the
street. Shauer kept an eye on the man.
who loitered about the place, all day, and
w eVJoVephMcAnally. of J4U North "Wan
amaker street, ne night foreman, went on
duty, he was still banging around. Mc
Anilly also kept watch upon tha man's
movements, but he attempted n- untoward
act until abput i o'clock this hv rnlng At
that hour Shiiner returned to dut He and
-McAnally were on the lookout, and a? the
stranger approached a pile, of packages
they concealed themselves.
Picking up a. small suitcase, Carson was
In the act of carrying It off when the,
twi expressm npounced upon lum. They
luxmi Ww over to a -.poJtcemjm. The
pactag ytM mtnea and wa found to
U. S. TROOPER MISSING
AFTER FIERCE BATTLE
WITH VULISTA FORCES
Clash Near Santa Ysabel, Persh
ing Reports From Namiquipa.
x Langhorne Turns on Men
acing Yaquis
MILITIA IS DENOUNCED
SAN ANTONIO, Tex,. May 22. Mexi
can bandits attacked a detachment of tho
7th United; States Cavalry west ofi.Santa
Ysabel on Friday, The Vllllatas were
driven off after a hot fight, but Private
Strong was missing after the conflict,
An official report on the fight was re
ceived from General Pershing today at
Fort Sam Houston, General Funston's
headquarters.
Santa Ysabel, near which the light oc
curred, was the scene of a massacre of
Americans by Villlstas n few months ago,
The district, though nominally under Car
rania control, Is niled with Vllllsta sympa
thizers. The fact that the bandits attacked the
American troops shows that the Mexicans
are becoming bolder In their operations.
Spies among the civilian population prob
ably keep the bandits informed of the
troops' movements,
General Pershing sent his report from
Namiquipa. which is considerably north of
(he Santa Ysabel district.
U, S, TROOPS TURN ON YAQUIS
MENACINQ FORCES AT REAR
MARATHON. Tex., May 22. Captain II.
Ij. Evans, Blgnal corps section commander,
arrived here today from the south, bring
ing news that half of Colonel Sibley's forces
turned back late Saturday night to face a
fore, pf 100 Yaqul Indian which appar
ently was trailing Major I-anghorne's di
vision. The detachment had reached a
point within 11 miles of. the Rlq Qrande
when told of the danger which threatened
Langhprne's miu. ,
It is understood at Fort Bllaa that the
6th Cavalry troops already "have started
for Doqulllas, wbencei Colonel Sibley anJ
ilalor langhorne led their force Into- Mex
ico and through, which the punitive expedi
tion la expected lo withdraw-
Am rteatt erasers 4id tl ww hardly
SHATTERED HOPES MIX
WITH WOE IN OVERSEA
WHITE SLAVE PLOT CASE
Man and yoman Accused of
Bringing in a Girl to Be .
"Belle of the Italian
Underworld"
SAVED IN NICK OF TIME
An alleged whte slave plot, Bald by of
ficials to be the most flagrant violation de
tected In Philadelphia in several years,
enme to light today, when testimony In the
case was presented befoix tho Federal
Qrand Jury in the Federal Hulldlng.
The case, according to the testimony,
presents a weird and dramatic mixture of
tales of woe, anguish and shattered hopes,
and a similarity of names, climaxed only by
the rescue of u pretty young Italian girl of
good family, which, It is said, came Just In
the nick of time. Two prisoners, a mail
and woman, i.re under' arrest, accused of
bringing the young girl from Italy and
boasting openly that Bhe would soon be the
"Ilella of the Italian underworld In this
city."
NEAPOLITAN OIRIi THI3 VICTOR
According to the Indictment, the Intended
victim was Miss Qlusepplna Oallo, a Nea
politan girl, about 20 years old. The pris
oners are Angelo Creda. 26 years old, and
Mrs. Gloyannl Oallo, of 1020 South 12th
street.
Todd Daniel, head of the local Depart
ment of Justice, and Special Agent William
II. Matthews, who made the Investigation,
said today that when the defendants' de
signs had been thwarted, they demanded
40 tram the rescuer for the girl an4 added
to that the amount they had paid for her
transportation. Tho money was refused
them, '
Roth defendants were arrested by the
police and are In Moyamensing Prison In
default of J1000 ball each, Mr Daniel said
When an Indictment la returned against
them, they wll be arrested on Federal bench
warrants.
SHE TELLS HER STORY
With tears in, her eyea and her vojee
broken by sobs the girl told, her story to
day It is one barely surpassed lu dime
npvels ap4 ciheap; movies , To makg thf
awry nw 'Intricate t6 girl sald"ji4 has
SHOTS HALT ROBDKR OF LOAN SOCIETY OFFICE
A tlnring nttemnt to tob the Unuftclnl Loan Society, Bronrt stictt
nntl Brio avenue, ohoitly nfter noon today vn3 frustiatccl when tho
lilglnvaymnit who held tip Ralph Benton, manager of the society, cud
obtained 9200, wtiR captured nfter n mile elmse. The man cnteiecl
the hendqttnUets of the society, obtnlupd 200 fipm Benton at the
point of n icvolver. commandeered an automobile standing outside
,and dabbed west on Vennngo sttect. After nn exciting chase, In
wnlch numeious shots weie exchnngtri, he wn's captmed at 22d stteet
cud Allegheny avenue, lie gave his name as James 11. BarkcS', of
Lcnvcuwottli, Kan.
ITALIAN LINER SUNK BY AUSTRIAN SUBMARINE
ROME. May 22. The Italian liner Saint Andicn has been sunk
l.y an Austilnn submarine.
JAMAICA RACING RESULTS
Hist race, for 2-ycar-olds, with $500 added, 5 furlongs Bui
lcsiue, 101, McCahey, 7 to 1. 2 to 1, 1 to 2; Woodtrap, 112, Hayncs,
even, 1 to 3, out; Bally, 107 MoDermott 11 to 5, 1 to 2, out. Time-;
1:00 3-5. Dungn Din, Whhllng Dun nnd Plentmnt Bie.un.3 also ran.
WOODBINE RACING RESULTS
r
Fiist race, $600 added, Ben D'Or plate, selling, !o'eai-olds and
up, 6 furlongs The Spirit. 107, Molt, $0.00, $3.10, $2 00: Betwceu
Us, 120, Rice, $3.30, $3.20; Btn Quince, 110, Jones, $7.00 Time
1:13 4-5. Hntbnid, Boneios Fiist, Water Lily, Copper King, '.la
Biush, rhillstlnc and Tho Usher also tau.
HERESY REPORT
ON PRESBYTERY
SUFFERS DELAY
Attack on New York Body,
Held by Committee As
sembly Approves
BIBLE CRITICS SCORED
Circular by Doctor Fox, De
nouncing Higher Criticism as
Striking at Church's Heart
MORE U. S. MARINES ORDERED TO SANTO DOMINGO
"WASHINGTON, May 22. Roar Admiral Caperton, commanding American forces
In Haiti, today notified tho Navy Department that ho had ordered tho 13th company
of marines, with nrtlllery, from Cupo Hnltlen to Santo Domingo city. They are being
transported today on tho gunboat Panther.
15,000 LOW PRESSURE HYDRANTS TO BE JREPLACED
The 15,000 fire hydrants used In the low-pressUre service of tho city will be re
placed with hvdrnnts of larger capacity as a result of a series of experiments com
pleted today by Chief Carleton B. Davis, of tho Burcau-of AVater The chlef-intondst Wspeak of tfio Bible as a whole us tho
Installing street hydrants with six-Inch barrels Instead of tho four and one-half inch Word of God' or 'infallible.' It U .Mot in-
barrels now In service. This, he explains, will permit a flow of 650 gallos a minute
Instead of 550 gnllons, the present capacity.
RUSSO-GERMAN SEA BATTLE IN BALTIC REPORTED
COPGNHAGHN, May 22. Violent cannonading has been heard In tho Baltic off
theiSwedlsh port of Kalmar, according to Stockholm dispatches today, which express
tho belief thnt the Ilusslnn and Germnn fleets have been engaged.
CAR HITS AUTO AND MIX-UP ENSUES
H. P.. Sheridan, a salesman connected with the Studebaker Automobile Agency,
Hrond and Callovvhlll streets, parked his car this morning on tho south Bide of Chest
nut street above 15th, directly behind three other automobiles. "When attempting
to pull out 11 few minutes Inter, Sheridan's car was struck by an eastbound Routo
12 trolley car with sulllclent force to jam the automqblle violently Into the three cars
abend of It Sheridan's enr was badly smashed up and all the three cars ahead of it
veio damaged, tho foremost one, belonging to Samuel Freeman, being almost as
badly injured as Sheridan's. Traffic was tied up for more than 15 minutes whllo tho
tangle vvns being straightened out.
POINCARE CONFERS WAR CROSS ON BELGIAN QUEEN
PAKIS, May 22. President Polncare has conferred tho war cross upon Queen
Elizabeth of Belgium "for magnificent valor and untiring devotion In tending the
wounded under fire." In accepting tho wnr cross the Queen told President Polncare
that sho was proud to "wear the decoration worn, by tho French troops."
COURT ASKED TO OPEN TWO BALLOT BOXES
Petitions were tiled today in Common Pleas Court to havo tho ballot boxes in
the 21st Division of tho 34th "Ward and the 23d Division of the 44th "Ward reopened
for recounting the ballots. J Lee Patton, counsel for one group of petitioners, eald
that the uctlon was not brought because of fraud, but through an error of the election
Judgo in throwing out entire ballots instead of certain portions which had been mis
marked, A recount, nccording to Mr, Patton, would make a material difference in the
standing of candidates for the 44th "Ward Committee,
CuutUJ v(ju j?i 10, t'uliitiu Shrs
UNIDENTIFIED MAN DIES FROM HEROIN POISONING
An unidentified white man died of an overdose of heroin at the Hahnemann
Hospital last ntght, after collapsing ut 10th and "Wood streets in the afternoon.
Physicians tald ho was suffering from the heroin poisoning, The man, who did
not lecover consciousness, was ubout 33 years old, of medium height nnd heavily
built and wore black shoes and u black suit.
PHILADELPHIAN AT HARVARD HURT IN PARADE
MInot J. Savage, of this city, a Harvard freshman, hurled from a horBe in a
parade of the Harvard Heglment, is in the" Peter Bent Brlgam Hospital. Harvard,
suffering seilous injuries. The horse was killed when it bolted and ran headlong
Into an electric car. Young Savage suffered concussion of the brain and a cut
forehead.
DREADNOUGHT TO BE HERE FOR "AD" CONVENTION
Secretary of the Navy Daniels has written to Congressman "William S. Vare
assuring him thut the dreadnought Pennsylvania would' be ordered to the Dela
ware Blver tho latter part of June during the convention of the Associated Adver
tising 'Clubs of tho "World here. The presence of the big warship was asked to
give tho delegates and visitors at the convention an opportunity of seeing Jt,
TUNGSTEN PLANT BURNS WITH $250,000 LOSS
BRIDGEPORT, Conn., May 22. Fire of unknown origin burned all day yesterday
and destroyed the Tungsten Mining plant of the American Equipment Company at
Long Hill, entailing a loss of J250.Q0U. There were no Are-fighting, facilities. A large
quantity of dynamite stored In ono of the buildings was removed in time,
NEW CABLE SYSTEM INVENTED BY U, S, ATTACHE
LONDON, May 22, Colonel'tleorge O, Squler, who has been United States mill
tary attache here, s the inventor of a pew system of cable telegram. His friends
say it will revolutionize ocean communication. It gives a greater Bpecd range and la
much cheaper. .
U. S. GOODS CROWDING OUT TEUTONS' IN ITALY
WASHINGTON. May 22. The United States Is now supplying Italy -with a
large part of the goods formerly sold there by Germany t and Austria, according
to Information obtained here, ana tne incursions are causing consiaerame alarm
in the Teutonlo empires, T)ils trade amounted in 1913, the last normal year, to
about T17P.000.00Q, of which ?t20,QQ0.OQ0 w-as from Grmany. In the fiscal year J91S
he American exports to Ualy wore (pnly 7S,285.S78 Swelled consldemly by "war
wderwbut st(U containing a nubstanllat Increase la prdinajry merchandl4 tb
flfurea for ino sumo tts4 ar wU exceed, f20vOW,lWt
By FRED E. BAER
(Evening Ledger Staff Correspondent)
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J.. May 22. Th
General Assembly of tho Presbyterian
Church approved the recommendation of the
Itcv. Dr. J, Iloss Slovonson today nnd
agreed to let tho Committee of Bills and.
Overtures "rotnln charge for tho present
of, tho overtures which Involve a prosecu
tion of tho Nevy York Presbytery ior
heresy."
Just why tho commltee asked for nn x
tenslou of tltno, tho Assembly did not pre
tend to understand, although tho committee
had been expected to advise the assembly
today Just how to proceed with tho case.
It Is tho general Impression that the com
mittee nnd the convention both favor the
caBo of the Now York Presbytery, although
the attacking clement Is large, there belne
almost two scoro of complaining overtures.
The convention leaders all Beem to fnVor
tho cause of Now York, and every ruling,
that has been made, has been In its favor.
A document called by Its author, tho Bev.
Dr. John Foxof tho New York Presbytery,
a "conservative," "Crltlca.1 Scholarship ver
sus tho Bible," mado Its nppenrnce late last
mgnt alter neing rormuuen circulation Sat
urday by tho Itev. Dr. W. II. Roberts,
Stated Clerk, who said It was against the;
rules.
OPPOSES PRESBYTERY.
This document is tho brief of tho prose
cutors, and Is euphemistically subheaded "A
Further Survey of tho Condition of the
Presbytery of Now York as Shown at Its
Spring Meeting, 1016, "With Special Refer
ence to Its Relations "With the Union Theo
logical Seminary."
The circulation of this brief Is believed.
to be the reason why tho Committee on
Bills and Overtures has decided to consider
further before giving Us opinion to the
General Assembly.
Doctor Fox says:
'The Issue raised Is a perfectly simple
one; namely. Is tho Bible Itself tho stand
ard of our faith or may It bo set slde on
the lpsed Ixlt of a clique of speculative
scholars In Europe rtnd America, who claim
to havo found errors, not In the transla
tion, but In the very substance and bowels
of the Book HselfT If they are right, the
Presbyterian Church in its whole plstpry
has been totnlly wrong, and with It evan-
frellcal nhurcllpn frAnnrnllv.
'on .their theory it is worse thanMare-
falllblo and It Is not tho word of Cod ,If
it Is spotted with errors and these .not
merely formal or clrcumstartlal, but vlil
and radical.
"The virgin birth, as Dr. Brlggs. for In-,
stance, taught. Is essential to the validity
of tho Christian religion. Tho Bible minus
Its miracles is a dead thing. The manna,
the pillar of cloud and the other miraculous
Insignia of the divine legation of Moses,
the 'thus salth tho Lord' of the prophets,
nil are questioned in the Presbytery of
New York and elsewhere, because tho In
spiration of the Bible is reduced to the
vanishing point. In its place is put the
'Christian consciousness' or some other wtll-o'-thc-vvlsp
It Is this which rends the
Presbytery and must rend the Presbyterian
Church from top to bottom unless wo cast
It out
"Every Presbyterian, man or woman, es
pecially in Now York city, must wake uy
to the Issue. The question to be settled Is
not. 'Was Christ born of n virgin?" but
'Is the vyhole Bible truly the work of Godf
Do we want a new Bible with whole chap
ters torn out in the name of 'critical
scholarship'?"
SIIOR TSPEECH: LONG CHEERS.
Vice Moderator Manson, presiding over
the assembly on the Steel Pier this morn
ing, called a man from the reporters' table
to the platform, and that man furnished the
oratorical high light of the convention. Ho
was John A. MacDopald, a Presbyterian
elder on Sundays and editor of the Toronto
Globe on week days. He is here as a re
porter for his own paper.
Mr. MacDonald spoke only about three
minutes, and the ovation which followed In
consequence lasted more than that long.
n
Continued on I'aie Fivo. Column On4
BROKE INTO WIFE'S HOME; HELD
Eddystono Workman Arrested for Noc
turnal Visit, His First Since
Last January
A man can't break Into his own wlfe'
home.
John Bulger. BO years old, tried It, nn
he Is In jail. His wife and their four chil
dren crawled over the porch roof to tb
home of a neighbor when he paid his
visit.
Bulger, who hadn't been to see his wlfs
since last January, broke Into her home,
at 6118 Lombard street, shortly after mid
night yesterday. The noise so alarm
Mrs, Bulger that she blew a police whistle
and then crawled with -her children out a.
window to safety. Bulger was arrested.
Indignant He was lectured by Magistrate
Harris yesterday when he was held In
$1000 balj for further' hearing. Bulger
who works at the Eddystone plant o thai
Baldwin Locomotive Works, is accused also
of failtng to obey a court order o ;t a,
week to support his wife,
SUMMONS UPON M. J. RYAff
Assistant City Solicitor J, Burrwoo4
Daly Brings Action Against Ilia
Former Chief
Henry J- Scott, representing Assistant
City Solicitor J.- Burrwood Daly, today libs
a summons Id, assumpsit against Michael JT
Ryan, former City Solicitor and at present
a member of the Public Service Commis
sion. No statement of the claim was pre
sented. Neither Mr Daly nor Mr- Ryan,
would discuss the case.
Mr. Daly was an assistant to Mr Kjratf
when the latter was City Solicitor and wa
held over by City Solicitor Connelly. Ho
took an active part In the campaign whftjt
Mr. Ryan waged for the Democratic swhtr
natorlal nomination.
a
Wilsons to Attend Grayson WctWUit
WASHINGTON, May 22. PreMeat "WM-
son will go to New York Wednesday
Mrs Wilson to, be present t the m
of Ms naval Id aniii vhyeWsn, ftp
r. Onmn, t Wm AUm, awtm aussp
He wfM return to WUiMloit tk ...aj;
