The Famous Briggs
S c His Immitable Cartoons on
The T.-D. Sporting Page
Sicfttttoni* ?me
Sketches From Life
See Temple's Human Interest
T.-D. Pi ctures Daily
60th YEAR
VOLV.MK AD
.MUMniUl 142
RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, MAY 22. 1916.?TEN PAGES.
n ??: \nicit
iv\<.i". :?
FAIR
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
QUART LIMITATION |
HELD WORTHLESS
Professor Rogers Points to Pos
sible Defect in Shipping Fea
ture of Mapp Bill.
SAYS IT IS INCONSISTENT
I
Holds That Measure Allows Pos
session of Larger Amounts if
Intended for Personal Use.
'I he celebrated one-quart limitation
?f 'he Mapp prohibition law Is held to
1'? without force or effort |?y ti<lhc&v
Rogers, who contributes to the April
number of the \" i rn i ni.t Law Review
an exhaustive analysis of this feature
of th?* act passed by ?he last General
Assembly, under the title "The Vir
ginia Prohibiten Law and the Com
inerce Clause of the Federal Constitu
i ion."
The hi tide, which it-. given leading
Position in this .staid journal of legal
lore, reviews the principal eyurt de
c yions dealing with the W'ebb-Kenyon
law and the various State antlshlp
ping laws which draw their effective
ness from this Federal statute.
Ms. Rogers is adjunet professor of
political ??conomy .it the I'niverslty of
Virginia and well-known a* a writer
e>n legal and economb subjects. He
succeeded Professor W M. llunley,
who resigned ftom the faculty to ijo
to 'he Virginia Military Institute. Ho
!?? a qrrad'info of Johns Hopkins Uni
versity and has ? member of the
faculty of th?? i nivertiltv ? >f Virginia
f"r about a year
Th? prominent portion civ. n Mr.
Rogers's artide by the Virginia l.aw
iteview, it I> pointed "it, supports the
aenumpt Ion that 'he editors of the
publication .ire seriously impressed by
his conclusions The brief has been
read with ni 11 eh interest by prominent
local lawyers, several of whom express
ed tli? belief last n'K'it that the find
in;;'. of Mr. Rogers stand a fair chance
of Win;' sustained by the courts
Ol* I.M'KHCT.tTI-:
< If A It A (TKII IN M>MK < ASKS
I'???!>? r the Webb-Kenyon law. in'oy. 1 -
i :i'in;- liquors are divested of their in
t? rstate character in certain < -uses. It
iT'?hibits the shipment or transporta
tion of intoxicating liquo: from one
? Stat, into another State when euch
liquor it Intended, bv any perron :n
seresttU therein, to be received, pos
sessed. s"ld. or in any manner used,
either its the original package or other
wise in violation of the law of such
Slate
Tiir d> feet of 'he shlppinc feature of
the Mapp bill. Mr Rogers says, lies
iti its attempt to keep out of the State
o'l shipments of more than specified
amounts. it respects ve of whether their
proposed disposition after the con
signee receives them is permitted by
State law. The Mapp bill limits the
amount of liquor that rna> be delivered
by a common carrier to any one person
in the Slate, to one quart of distilled
liquor, or three gallons of be. r, or one
gallon of wine. Such deliveries can
not be made oftener than once a month
n the case of any one person.
N.iv while these at bit! .try amounts
nre fixed as the maximum quantities
that may be legally delivered o? ie
ived Mr Rogers points out. the Mapp
legalizes the possession of much
larger amounts if intended purely for
personal use. Thus, the law provides
that not until the possession sit one's
home of nsore than one gallon of liquor,
one gallon of wine or three gallons of
beer is shown shall such possession bo
prima facie evidence that the liquors
arc kept for sale.
Mi. Hogera quotes a decision of the
l?elawa?e Supreme Court in which it
holds that the Haze! law of that State,
, which attempts to do practically what
is undertaken by the shipping provision
of the Mapp act, is inoperative so far
as applied to interstate shipment for
valid purposes.
M\V BK COMPKI.1.KI>
TO DKI.lVr.R SIIII'MK.VTS
"Ii seems to me clear."' Mr. Rogers
concludes, "that when shipments ar&
not brought in for purposes which are
made unlawful by the Virginia law (and
.?ould have been made unlawful be
fore the passage of the Webb-Kenyon
Act), the carrier, not only cannot b?
prevented from delivering, but, on the
contrary, may, by mandamus, be com
pelled, to deliver such shipments.
"To conclude, then, it would seem
to be abundantly established by rea
son and precedent that residents of
Virginia desiring intoxicating liquors
for their own use after November 1,
i!?1??t will not bo prevented from re
ceiving them; nor will residents be
limited as to the amounts of ardent
spirits if the consignments are for pos
session at the home, or other lawful
place, and for personal use.
?If a common carrier refuses,
through tear of violating the Virginia
i law, to transport the shipments, the
courts would be justified in granting
;? rfi.Hidamus compelling the delivery,
even though the consignee had within
the month received the amount which
the net unsucessfully attempts to tlx
as the limit. It would seem, further
more, that this right to import liquors
for personal use may be insisted upon
by the consignee, subject only to the
danger-that if an Individual possesses
at his home more than one gallon of
distilled liquor, one gallon of wlno or
three gallons of beer, it would bo
prima facie evidence that the liquors
:lre kept for sale, and he may have to
stand trial and rebut this presumption
?n proceeding, however, which, in
' many cases will not be dllllcult."
Afr. Rogers adds a foot note, in which
he confesses to being puzzled by the
" provisions in the Mapp bill limiting
(Continued on "Second Page.)
American Airmen
Win French Praise
Titjo Proposed for Promotion
and One for Citation, as Re
ward for Heroic Service.
PARIS, May 21?Corporal Kitten
Rockwell. ,i member of the Franco-j
American Flying Corps, has been pro-1
posed for promotion to the rank of ser- |
Reant, as a reward for bringing flown i
a German aeroplane neor liartmens
Wciler-Kopf, on Alny is. lie will be!
decorated with the military medal. i
j Corporal Rockwell formerly lived in '
> Asheville, X, C., where his mother now j
resides, but he came to France from i
Atlanta, Gsi.
In the spectacular fight, which mny ;
win him promotion, he engaged his op
ponents at close ?|i!*rters. lie swooped
? down upon the German aeroplane, fae
! ing machine-gun fire as ho approach
I ed. He waited until he was within
thirty yards of the German machine,
and then opened fire. At his fifth shot
the gunner of the German machine
tossed up his hands and fell on the
pilot, who also crumpled up, as the ma
chine began to plunge downward in
flames to the German trcnches near
IJffholz. After it crashed to the ground j
It continued to burn
A RTI [.T.Kit V OHSI-:i< VKHS
HMI'ORT KA 1,1, OK MACHINM!
Corporal Rockwell was compelled to!
turn at a sharp incline to avoid a
collision with th* German aeroplane.]
lie did not ise< the German machine!
strike the ground, but that fact was j
reported by artillery observers
Corporal Victor Chapman, of New I
York, has been proposed for promo-1
tion to the" rank of sergeant for his I
pursuit of a German machine that flew
.over the camp seeking revenge for j
Corporal Rockwell's e.xploit. |
Lieutenant William K. 'I'haw, of
Pittsburgh, has been proposed for ci
tation for pursuing a second German
machine from th<- camp, continuing the
tlight at 'lose range until his machine
g uii jammed. Lieutenant Thaw also
credited with forcing down another
German machine, probably to destruc
tion. but I'. has been impossible to veri-'
fy this officially.
Two German aeroplanes flew o'.er
? the Franco-American camp on the day
j following Corporal Rockwell's ftglit,
j and dropped a bomb which exploded
within ten yards of the machines, but,
j caused no damage. Corporal Chai>man
(and Lieutenant Thaw took to the air,
' and the Germans fled < >ne escaped ,
ir. the haze. Lieutenant Thaw caught
i :h" other at a height of 3,2f."> yard*.
I ami exchanged several volleys at close
1 ranpe. Then his gun jamnv-d and he
( was obliged to desist.
WAITE ON TRIAL TO-DAY
j One Hundred mid Klftern Wllnf??r?
Summoned to A ppcur Alinlnut Al
iened Mayer of Knther-in-I.mv.
j MOW YORK, May CI.?The trial of,
Iir. Arthur Warren Wait? for the mur
der of his wealthy father-in-law. John
Pe<-k. of <1 rand Rapids, will begin here
to-niorrow morning. Among the 115
? witnesses sumoneil by the prosecution
'is Or. WaJte's tfe. Mrs. Clara Peek
I Waite. of Grand Rapids, who has sued,
! him for a divorcc.
While the defense has made no of- j
fl. ial statement as to what its course |
I will be, a pica of insanity will be of- <
| fered Waite has contended that he j
j was possessed of two personalities, the i
evil one of which compelled him to j
take the lives of his wife's parents
I The district attorney's office an- j
j nounced to-night that Mrs. Margaret
l Horton. "studio companion" of Waite. j
will appear as a witness for the prose- j
; cutlon. Another who will testify against!
! the defendant, it was said, is Rugene i
I Oliver Kane, the embalmer, who alleges j
| Waite tried to bribe him to testify
! that poison was used in the fluid with I
I which Mr. Peek's body was embalmed.
! JOHN D. IS "TOUCHED"
(.litle Grnndnon Get* "Vetv >"lckel for
K1*k, as CoiiKvepatIon
i l.nokn On.
ISpecial to The Times-Olspatch.J
i TAllRYTOWN. N. Y , May 01.?John |
I D Rockefeller was "touched" to-day '
: und right in church, loo. He attended |
> service at Lyceum. Pocantico Hills, and 1
| ?o did his son and grandchildren.
After service young Winthrop Rocke- j
, feller, beckoned to his grandfather and ;
' said he had a little matter to adjust
j with him. When his grandfather
j reached his side and bent over to get
! the message. Winthrop said: "Grand
j pop. I've got a big kiss for you."
Mr Rockefeller was wise. He smiled.
I put his hand in his vest pocket, whftro
1 he keeps his loose, change, and. digging
i out a new nickel, handed it to his
| grandson, who already had his hand
I out.
i When the little fellow's Angers
j clasped the coin he put his arms around
i his grandfather's neck and gave him
i a sinack. as the rest of the congrega
? tion looked on.
"He'll take care of himself in Ihisj
. world." said Mr. Rockefeller, as he I
! patted the boy's head approvingly. |
F0 R "WORK ^0 F~CHU RC H
Confteernllon of Infnntn for Pnlptt nod |
MJiutlon l-'lcld Mark* Senftlon of
Prrnbyterlnn Assembly.
I I
I51RMINGHAM. ALA.. May 21.?Con
| secration of infants to the work of
! pulpit and mission field, and generous
responses to an appeal for financial
aid marked an unusual session of tho
General Assembly of the Cumberland
Presbyterian Church hero to-day.
Mrs. John A. Clay presided, and tho
principal address was made by Mrs.
Lavinia Wilson, of Kentucky, who con
cluded by calling on parents to conse
crate their children to religious tvork.
i In addition, a number of adults vol
1 untered to serve in any Held to which
the church should assign them.
A session to-night whs given over
to the discussion of educational work.
ENDS LIFE IN LEAP
OF ELEVEN STORIES!
I
Ernest R. Edmonds, of Richmond, j
Jumps From Office Building I
in Washington.
HAD FINANCIAL TROUBLES
Recently Told a Friend He Was
. So Worried He Felt Like
"Jumping Over."
(Special to The Times-Dispatch.] I
"WASHINGTON. D. t.\, May 21.?!
Ernest It Ktlmnnris, thirty-two years
old. n telegraph operator, committed
suic !r|o to-day by leapinc from an
eleventh-ltoor window of the Munsi-y
Building. His body, striking the con
j crete pavement, was badly crushed
and scarcely recognizable. Temporary
mental troubles are believed to have
prompted the act.
i l'Mmonds recently came to \Va:;hinc- ]
ton from Richmond, an while here
j has Hf'ti operating a press wire For
years he was operator for a press as
sociation at Richmond. His friends
here say he was a native of Front
Royal. Va., but his father now resides
at Remington. Va. His body was taken
charge of by his wife, Mrs Relle K'i
monds.
KdmondH had been worrying for sev
eral weeks over financial troubles and
his wife's illnes? He recently told
M. Thelcn. another operator, that he
felt like "jumping over" He said he
was "worried and tied up in financial
troubles "
Mr. Kdmonds was '.veil Known in
Richmond, where he had made his
home for more than a year Ho and :
his wife left here for Washington last .
Wednesday. Mr Kdmonds tellinp|
friends here on Tuesday night that he j
had the promise of employment as a
telegraph operator there in a broker's
office He came here from Washington,
and {<? r about a year was special ope.
rater for the Richmond Evening Jour
nal Tie irave up that position and!
went to New York, where he under
took some special work, but suffered a 1
nervous breakdown due to overwork. I
He -nine back to Richmond and filled i
in for various local operators while'
seeking a permanent position, making j
his home on South Third Street Until I
they Jnft here last week his wife had j
been in the employ of the western ?
Union Telepraph Company
STATEMENT BY TUMULTY
in Prenldrnt'n Action In rtegnrd
to Aftklntc Weacott to Renom
inate film.
WASHINGTON. D. C.. May 21.-?.Jo-j
seph P. Tumulty, secretary to Presi- I
dent V\ ilson. to-night pave out a state- j
ment referring to a letter from Gov
ernor Fielder, of N'. w Jersey. m the I
President, it which th* Governor stated j
that he had allowed himself to be se- j
lectefi by the New Jersey delegates !
to the St. Loui.-j convention to nomi- i
nat? Mr. Wilson, because State Chair- j
man Kdward Grosseup had told him he \
had been notified that the President I
had t o choice. On the same flay thai
delepates wrote, the President wrote
t?> the Attorney-General of New Jersey,
asking him to make the nominating!
speech. Mr. Tumulty's statement To!- i
1 o w s:
"There was no misunderstanding on 1
my part as far as this situation was j
concerned A 'messenger representing i
State Chairman Grosseup called me hv j
telephone ?t the White House on the1
morning of the meeting of the de le- '
gates, and r informed him that it was j
the President's desire that Judge Wt-.-j- j
coit should he designated to renom- i
inate him Mr. Grosseup was in posses- i
sion of this information and the Pres- I
Ident'a views when the delegates se-I
looted Governor Fielder. Governor '
Fielder's name was never sug>c.?strd '
to me by Mr. Grosseup for this dutv |
in any discussion I had with him about !
ftffriirs in Nt w .IrVaty."
TAKES PATROLMAN'S BADGE
< uptnln or \ntional Gunn) in Control,
in t.irnril ItenentN Arrest of Two
Stnte Deputies.
<>IRARI>, ALA., May 21.? Patrolman
H.iri is. of the Glrard police force, was
called to military headquarters and his I
hausre removed to-day by Captain Pal- I
las Smith, of the Opellka Company. Na- !
tional Guard of Alabama, after thoj
patrolman had arrest, d two State depu-I
ties conducting whisky raids here, on i
charges of carrying concealed weapons, j
The deputies were released, and later!
Captain Smith returned the badge to;
the patrolman.
Special Agent Baughn, conducting the ?
raids for the Attorney-General, invad- j
ed the Manhattan Club. Several ar- I
rests were made. Iiaughn claims to
have found several barrels of whisky in !
the basement of the club. lie placed!
guards about the building to-night, and 1
expects to seize the liquor to-morrow.
WILSON PRINCIPAL SPEAKER I
i
Firnl Xatlonal .Meeting of l.cngiic to
Knfnrcr Pence Will lie Ileld in
Wnfthlngion l<nst of Thin Week.
(Special to The Times-Dispatch.] '
NKW YORK, May 21.?Nearly every
State in the Union, and all of the large
cities will be officially represented in
Washington on Friday and Saturday
at the first national meeting of the
League to Enforce Peace. Already ]
I.S00 delegates have registered. Wil- j
liam Howard Taft, president of the i
league, will preside.
The principal address will l>e made !
by President Wood row Wilson. Sccre- 1
tar.v of War Raker and other notables
are to speak. Among them are Oscar
S. Strauss. Theodore Marburg. A. Law
rence Lowell, president of Harvard;
Talcolt Williams, Professor Franklin
H. Giddings, Hamuel Gompeis and
[ others.
Americans and Mexicans Around Stalled Locomotive
i
American soldiers gatnered in rront of locomotive of train ciiiTyinj; fnrranzistus, temporarily staiicil near
San Antonio. Imse ramp of the American troops in Mexico.
Hetliel It. Divens. Knouu jus "Speed
King," Die* l-'ow Hour* J,mer
in Hospital.
HIKLKD TIIKOCGI1 WINDSHIELD
Warn'11 M. <?oddard, Wlu? Whh Driv
i ing Machine. Although Arrested as
| J'orinulliy, is Considered by Offi
cials to lie Knlirely lliaiueless.
i "
I livlht 1 Uu3t>> Jlivt'ii-. t w.'>nty-seven
year;s old, ?>f 2-'JD West Cary Street,
and known aa one of the lliclnnond'a
"r.pcctl kings" on thf motorcycle, was
?Injured fatally on the Cary rit.-er-t ltoad
shortly after o'clock yesterday after
noon, when he drove hi.s machine into
the arttQmonile of Warren M. Ciotlit.ir'J,
of the Federal reserve bank, just be
y??i.<J the Melt [.in'- cro>.?lnir. Itivens
was liurl^'j across the automobile,
through the windshield and into the
lield bey ond. >ic was rushed to Vir
ginia Hospital by l>r. l.-leverly II.
Tucker, and died there at 1J o'clock
last night, without having regained
| consciousness.
Neither the county nor city police are
; Inclined to attach any responsibility to
i Mr Cloddard for the accident, liivenss
| mucnine running into itis after the au
' lomobile had been ditched l>v Mr. Ooil
rtard In an eflort to provtnt the col
! lision. As a formality, however, Mr.
jGo.ldard was arrested last niglit by I'o
I liceman I,. S. Clarke, after the death of
! Hivens, on a charge of involuntary
.manslaughter. H, was balled ami prob
! ably will be arraigned in the Police
j *.ourt on 'I hursday. An inquest into
I the death probably will be conducted
j to-morrow by Coroner Taylor. \o ar
I rangements for the funeral had l.?ei:
1 made last night.
I hf accident oeiurred close to the
I city limits and there was some doubt
| last night as to whether the county or
, '.its othcials had Jurisdiction in tno
case. However, Hivens died in the city
land tiiis would necessitate Coroner
| Taylor handling th? ease. As Mi
| G??idard is a resident of the city, the
.local police swore out the technical
, warrant against him. U ik said that
the exact spot at whieJl tllR nct.,(]t.?t
| occurred was on the incline just to the
west of the .Kelt Line crossing.
| >111. 1.01>I> A It |> tit VKS
am ?U VI' or accidkvt
Mr. Goddard last night gave an ac
| count of the accident, an.i everything
he said relative to it was attested by
jolty and county officers who invest
igated. .Mr. Goddard said that he and
[his mother and her nurse were re
turning to the city after a quiet rj,|6
through the country, when he saw Alio
approaching motorcycle. Mr. Goddard
said that itivens had been approaching
Imn rapidly, and that he lost sight of
the cyclist for rir? instant when he ro.io
up behind two automobiles that were
in advance of his cycle.
r.ivens is thought to have speeded
up his cycle in an effort to pass tins*
machines, and suddenly darted from ?
around them in the direction of Mr.
God da rd's car. Goddard noticed the'
speed of the motorcycle and the sweep- |
ing curve Hivens made in passing the
other automobile. Unwilling to take i
even a chance of an accident because
of the nervous condition of his mother.
Mr. Goddard ran his car into the ditch
on the right-hand side of the road, and
waited foi the motorcycle to piss hint, i
However, the speed at which it was j
being driven was too great to allow |
itivens to make the sharp curve neccs-;
anry and the cycle crashed into the)
front fender of the automobile. Thai
impetus of the motorcycle wa? sufft- I
c.lent to drive ihat machine nearly
through the fender and tin- hood of the'
automobile. Itivens was hurled through J
the air, acros? the hood of the car. !
through its windshield and '"?"?me feet;
into ihe field beyond i; lie lay an |
inert, broken form until the arrivals
of I)r. Tucker, who happened to pass
the scene a few minutes after the |
accident.
Dr. Tucker made a quick examination |
(Continued <>n Second Page.) {
Times-Dispatch Supply
Limited to Demand j
?tender* of The TliucK-IJlspnteh
nre requested to place their ordera j
In ndvnni'f tilth their niMVMdenlerft
or carriers. This ix flie only nurr
method of Kecuvlng your paper regu
larly. OniiiK to a Nlim-tanc of nemi- j
print paper throughout the country
Kenerallj. neusiirulerN' anil carrier*' I
>rder* tire limited to the aettinl num- |
her required to take eare of their |
regular trade.
NINE OHO, 38 INJURED,
IN TOBiDO-SIPT TOWN
Only Three Small Dwellings Remain
Intact in Town of Kemp,
Oklahoma.
|
VILLAGK MAY NOT HK KF.IUILTj
Bo<lies of Victims in Scleral In-{
stances Found Humlre<N of Yards
I From Where Their Houses Had j
Stood?Denison Sends Aid.
I
I> EX I SON", TEX., May 21.?Nino per- j
sons were killed and thirty-eight. in
jured at Kcmit. Okla., eight miles >
east of l'enison, ami the; town was'
badly damaged hv a tornado. which i
I last night swept a patch threo-quar- '
lets of a inile wide and five miles ;
long in the vicinity of Kemp. Only '
thred small dwellings remain intact i
at Kemp.
Twelve business houses. ;i two-story j
hotel and sixty residences were de
molished in Kemp. This is the second i
time in reccnt years that the little !
town of 300 inhabitants has been vis- I
j ited by a tornado. Merchants said j
that the town probably would not be I
rebuilt.
| Eight were killed in the town, while. |
the other victim, a child, was killed in j
1 the collapse of its father's home. Just I
j across the Tied P.iver in Texas. Of j
jthe thirty-eight injured, thirty-six are I
residents of Kemp. Most of those in- ,
j jurod were caught in the collapse of |
| buildings, while trying to reach storm
j cellars shortly after the storm broke
j at Saturday night.
The bodies of the dead in several in- j
j stances were found hundreds of yards !
j from where their houses had stood. I
The two-year-old child of Or, and Mrs.
William Krinson. who were killed, was j
i hurled tino feet with (lying debris when j
the Krlnson residence was destroyed,
hut the child suffered only minor in- i
I juries.
? >MK twelve
I physicians from I'onison. did not reach
' Kemp until several hours after the
( tornado pa ssed.
j LYNCH SENTENCED TO DEATH
tint Comminution Kolloiva tn Cnne of
\itiericiin fl<l/.ri> AVho A) an
In DiiMIn Itehelllnn.
i !.< >NI'ON, May 21.?That Jeremiah O.
I Lynch, a citizen of the I'nlted States,
' was con lemned to death by a British
\ .-ourt-martial officially was admitted
! to-day by the Foreign Otllee. Lynch's
! sentence, as has been announced pre- j
i viously, has been commuted to ten
years' penal servitude.
I,.inch, ;i citizen of Xew York, and
former president of the Gaelic League, 1
was, according to a statement by tha
Foreign (Mice. an active participant In
; the Dublin rebellion.
'?There was clear evidence of Lynch's
activity iti the rebellion," says the
statement. "He is known to have been ,
a prominent agitator before the out-!
break. He was at the post-office dress- j
ed in a rebel officer's uniform.
"He nas sentence to death, but the |
ofl's-or commanding commuted the sen-j
tc-nce to penal servitude of ten years." |
LANSING ILL AT HOME
Miii In* t onfinei! for Several l>n?* as
Itcnult of Attack of
I Millgestlon.
WASHINGTON*. May 21.?Secretary j
of State l.ansing is confined to his bed
with an attack of indigestion. It was]
said at the State Department yester
day tti.it Mr. l.ansing's illness ivsis of ;
ik> consequence, and that he would be
at his desk on Mondai. Inquirers at
his home to-day were told, however,!
that, it probably would be the middle I
of the week before lie would he able
to leave the house.
BOY SCOUTS SHOW HEROISM
Aiinriled (iirnegle Medals for let*
Performed During Air Hnld
li > Austrian*.
HOME, May 21.?Medals have been;
awarded two Hoy Scouts of Verona by |
the Carnegie Hero Fund Commission j
for acts of heroism during an Austrian !
air raid on that city in November last. J
it is officially stated to-day. Action j
was taken at a meeting of the com
mission in this city last night.
steamer Floats I uiiHNlMtod.
I.EWES. DEL., May 21.?The Danish ;
steamer Merlin, from New York, for;
Baltimore, reported ashore on Smith's ?
Island, Va., floated unassisted last
night and proceeded. i
0. S, TROOPERS FIRED ON
NEAR TEM05ACHIC TOWN
Attack Ascribed to Bandits Hiding
Cnder Bridge Few Miles South
east of Madera.
THKY FLKK AKTEIt FEW SHOTS'
Americans Continue on Tlieir Way, j
According to Wireless Report)
From Field Headquarters?Per- j
shine's Forces in Mexico Inactive.'
KIIILD IIEADyUAUTlvfiS. JIK.XICO,
May 21? tvia wireless to Coluinhus, X.
M.. May 21).?Thirteen troopers of .the
Seventh Cavalry were fired upon yes
terday near the town of Teinoaachic,
and one was wounded. The attack in'
a .scribed to bandits hiding under a j
bridge near the town, which is a few i
utiles southeast of Madera on tho J
.Mexican Northwestern Railroad. After i
a few shots the Mexicans fled and the j
Americans continued on their way. i
A small group of Mexicans is falling:
in behind the American columns as they i
move northward, always keeping out;
of sight, but telling the natives that1-]
they are chasing the "grlngoes" from ;
Mexican soil. They stop whenever the i
Americans halt and hide, or disarm, if
General l'ershing's men approach them. I
Two suppositions are prevalent re- !
garding the identity of these men. One
is that they are Carranzlstas trying to
give the American movement the ap
pearance of a retreat. The other is
that they are bandits seeking to annoy
the Americans by sniping. The. latter
conjecture is regarded as the nmr* i
probable.
This is the first intimation received :
lately that soldiers were stationed so |
far to the south All reports hava |
placed their southernmost point a con- ?
siderahle distance to the north of
Temo.sachlc. from which it is also sepa- ;
rated by the Sierra Madre range.
FI NSTOVS < IDIMAMD
AWAITS DKVKI.OIMIKVI'S
SAN* AXTOXIO. TIOXAS, May 21.? I
With the arrival on the American sld* ;
| of Colonel Sibley's little force that res-;
cued Jesse Deemer and Monroe Payne j
land chased border raiders 11.1 miles
into Mexico. General Funston's com- j
! man,I of nearly 5t\00i> men to-nlxhtj
| awaited developments. That portion
j of the army under General Pershing in
I Mexico lias become as inactive as tho
remainder of the border force.
I Colonel Sibley had not reported hia
! troops on this side of the Hlo Grande
to-night, hut his last reported position
lv\as so far north that at General Fstns
j ton's headMUarters his arrival was
hourly expected.
General oflioers plan to continue this ;
weel; the distribution of forces along |
the border. The Texas militia will be j
sent forward iti a few days, ami to-day j
the Sixth Cavalry, which has been in i
Chihuahua under General Pershing,!
was moving into the nig Bend district., j
where additional companies of the j
Coast Artillery will be placed if tho i
War Department grants Funston's re- !
quest for more. Humors of raids at !
various points along the border, espe
cially in the Brownsville district, con-'
tinued to reach General Ktinston to
day. but all official reports from bor-'
der army stations were that the situ-i
ation was unchanged i
PASS 'I'll MO I t. II t:i, PASO
o.v WAV TO mi. IIIOXI) DISTIIH'T
i:i. PASO, T1SX., May 21.?Approxi
mately SOrt men of the Sixth Cavalry,
the tlrst. regiment to be withdrawn
from Genera! Pershing's expeditionary
column, passed through HI Paso to-day
on the. way to the Big Bend district of
Texas, to do border patrol duty. The
troopers, who were carried in three
special trains, are expected to ha\ e
completed training at Sierra Blanca,
Marfa, Alpine and Marathon to-nior-'
row.
VAQl'l INDIANS ItKPOHTKII
I N I,A NtiHOHNK'S HKAft
MAHATHON, TK.N.. May 21.--ArmJ-j
olllclals to-night were investigating ii
report brought from Hu<|Ulllas by a
truck driver to the effect that Yaqui
Indians were in tho rear of Major
l.anghorne's cavalry detachment, and
in a position t<> threaten it. The re.- ;
port was without oillclal continuation
According to the truck driver, who'
said he. uot his information froni
couriers sent to the border by the ex- .
ped*tlonary forces, Colonel Sibley, who;
was leading the advance out of Jlex- 1
leo, has retracted his steps in order to
re-enforce !,anghomc.
Several days ago reports crossed the
border that 40ft Ynqul Indians had left
Cuatro Cienegas In the direction of
Boriuillaa.
RUSSIAN FORCES
JOIN HANDS WITH
BRITISH ON TIGRIS
Czar's Cavalry Forms Junc
tion With English in
Mesopotamia.
GERMANS ARE ADVANCING
LINES IN VERDUN REGION
Paris Admits That Advanced
Trenches Are Lost on Slope
of Dead Man's Hill.
OTHER A TTACKS KKPt'LSKD
Austrian*. Claim to Have Driven
Italians From Main Line of
Resistance.
The Husfians have achieved in part
one of their main objects In Asiatic
Turkey?the Joining1 of hands with
their British allies, fighting against
the Turku on the Tigris River. With
out preliminary announcement, and ap
parently quite unexpected, the Hus
sion cavalry, "after a bold and ad
venturous ride." has formed a junction
with the British General Gorringe on
the right bank of the. Tigris, in the
region of Kut-el-Amaru, where, only
recently a British force under General
Townshend and, after a long siege, was
forced to capitulate to the. Turks. How
the Russin ns made their advance ?
whether along the Tigris Valley or
down through Persia?has not been
made known. Coincident with their
arrival, however, comes a report that
the Turks have evacuated Bcthaiessa.
their advanced position on the right
bank of the Tigris, and also have lost
to the British their Dujalliim redoubt.
Petrogxad also says the Russian* are
keeping up their advance on Mosul.
Around Verdun the fighting between
the French and the Germans con
tinues with great violence, especially
between the Avocourt. wood and the
River .Mouse, northwest of tho fortress.
A French first-lino trench und slopes
of the west of f.e Mort Homme have been
captured by the Germans, while the
French have taken two German
trenches on the road from Ksnes to
Haucourt. Numerous German attacks
have been repulsed. Berlin reports that
more than l.sno- French''were taken
prisoner, and that sixteen machine
guns and eight cannon were captured
It. the region of Le Mort Homme.
MtH.Vttl TAKE IIAI UREJIOXT
(It'A It It I ICS I HOM (iEHJtA.VS
Northeast of the fortress the Fronch
ha\e taken from the Germans the
ijaudreinont quarries, which had been
strongly organized, and captured eighty
I i "soners and four machine guns. On
the remainder of the front the lighting
lias consisted mainly of artillerv duel3
and numerous combats in the air. In
the aerial lighting aviators of both
sides were brought down.
The latest. Austrian olilcial report,
?kited Saturday, and presumably refer
ring to fighting on tiie previous day,
t ecords additional progress of the
Austrian armies against tho Italland
t:> Southern Tyrol. The Rome commu
nication. which deals with the fighting
of Saturday, mentions an infantry en
j km genie nt In tho Lagarina Valley,
where the Austrlans threw three large
masses of infantry into the fray, bufl
were driven back with heavy losses.
Another attack between the Astlco and
Brenta forccs had a similar result. Ad
vanced Italian posts repulsed anothert
attack in the Sugana Valley, but after-*
wards withdrew to their lines of sup- '
port. The Austrian artillery continue*
extremely active at other points.
Except for German attempts at of
fensives against the Russians in tho
Illoukst region, and north of Lake
which were repulsed, there huvo
been only artillery duels on the Rus
sian front.
'"?wo aeroplanes of the Teutonic aU
ies have dropped bombs on Cairo,
'??gypf. killing two and wounding thirn
teen civilians and injuring fl/a sol^
(liorv.
J?I\ BRITISH AFTER UOr.D
AND AUVK\Tl'ROi;N It|OH
r.oxno.v. May 21? A force of Rus
sian cavalry has Joined the British
army on the Tigris in Mesopotamia.
An otli.-ial communication issued
to-night follows:
? r.-iu-r"1 l.nkv reports that on the
. ,ho vacated the Bethalessa
"chanced position on the right bank
" tin | igris. General Oorringe. fol
lowing up the enemy, attacked and
curried the i#ujailam redoubt. The ene
ni> is still holding tho Sannayyat po
sition on the left bank of the river
A force of Russia cavalry has joined
.eneni! (.orringe, after a bold and
adventurous ride."
> Mi.si -i i\k rjir;\t ?ir:s
A It K TAKEV HV tiBlllf.t VS
' AK1S. May 21?Afternoon official;
"est of the Meuue the Germans con
i. iued during u,e night then- attacks
<" our positions: on Dead Ma.Vst Htil.
.he*- wero again repulsed to the east
? ? ? :?r curtains ure, which sh.i tered
. ?t?acka. The enemy succeeded.
However, in occupying our tlrst-lino
t renches on the slopes w of Lead
...an'* Hi|{
K..-1 of the Meus? u.ere w;u very i
f'\\y "r,uu?ry firing in the vicinity
"rt \ aux without any infantry Ac
tions
In Lorraine an attack following a %
violent bombardment enabled the G?r
"><"?? to penetrate o?.-. of our treneho*
f,. rf C fre Of our ar
??>r> and machine ,-uns compelled
?In- Germans a llttlo later to return
? Unoy. l^vlr.ff their dead and
wounded.
Aviation: A raid was made by enema
aviators In the regions of Baccarat*
