THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TW ENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, MAY 22, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXY1I., NO. 4
)
KEff CITY IS
WIPED BUT Hi
iniir inr nrm
RUSSIANS G...
ADVANTAGE JOINING
HANDS WITH BRITISH
NAVAL MILITIA PLANS i
ARE ANNOUNCED
Tornado Works Havoc In
Little Oklahoma Town,
Sweeping Path Three
Quartos of Mile Wide and
Five Miles Long.
SECOND TIME IN
RECENT YEARS
WASHINGTON,
navy department
Eight of the Dead Were
Killed in Town, While
Other, a Child, Was Killed
in Collapse Of House
Across Red River.
May 11. Tit
nnouneed to-
night the program for the summer
crvis of the Washington and Ore-
1 son naval militia and the first bat- I
! talion ot California's naval militia.
The Californians will hoard the
; battleship Oregon at San Fran- '
i Cisco July 15 and disembark at the
i same place July 2S. the Oregon mil- !
j Hi.imen will start from Portland 00
j the cruiser Marblehead July 15 I
1 and return Julv and the Wash-
ingtonians will ship on the cruiser j
j New Orleans' at Tacoma July 15
! and disembark at Seattle August
I 5. Pay. transportation and sub-
sislence will be allowed all officers j
' and men who report on the dates
I announced and serve throughout
I the cruise.
p
Achieve In Part One 'of
Their Main Objects InAs
iastic Turkey: Union with
British Fiahtine Turks on
lens.
RUSSIAN FORCE
JOINS BRITISH
DHTHE TIGRIS
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The Russians have achieved in part
one of their main objects in Asiatic
Turkey the joining of hands with
their British allies fighting against
the Turks on the Tigris river.
Coincident with the arrival comes
a report that the Turks have evacu
ated Bethuiessa, their advanced posi
tion on the right bank of the Tigris
and also have lost to the British their
Dujailam redoubt.
Around Verdun the fighting be
tween the French and the Germans;
continues with great violence. A
French first line trench and slopes,
on the west of I.e Mori Homme have
been captured by the (iermans. while
the French have taken two trenches
on the road from ICsiie to Haucourt.
Berlin reports that more than 1 00
French were taken prisoners and that
sixteen machine guns anil eight can
non were captured in the region of
1 Mort Homme.
Northeast of the fortress the French
have taken from the Cm mill the
Haudremont quarries and captured
eighty prisoner and four machine
guns. On the remainder of the front
the fighting has consisted mainly of
artillery duels aim numerous air coin-bats.
The latest German offical report,
dated Saturdav and oresumahlv re-
SWABU, UHB. Jia) -i.--.inei , ferrinK to righting of the previous
having been marooned fifty-eight days ,iuy, records additional progress of the
on one of the barren islands at the Austrian army against the Italians
mouth of Cook inlet. Captain Charles in southern Tyroll.
Hansen and L. EL Mitchell, survivors Kxcept for German attempts at of
1 of the wreck of the launch Success, r fensives against the Russians in the
arrived here today from Seldovia on llloukst region and north of l.akc
the steamer Admiral Farragut. Thomas ! llsen, which was repulsed, there have
I'nmobcU and John Larson, the other j been onlp artillery duels on the Rus
tvvo men who were on the launch wero sian front.
(drowned. The aeroplanes at the Teutonic al-
lis have dropped bombs on Cairo,
TWO SURVIVORS
OF WRECK IRE
SKIT SUM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DEH1SOX. Tex. May Jl. -Nine
persona were killed and :K Injured
and Kemp City. Okie eight miles
east of Denison, was wiped out by a
tornado which last night swept a
path three-quarters of a Rile wide
and five miles long in the K.-mp City
seel ion.
Twelve business houses, a tWO-etWy
Slotel ami sixty residences we -e de
molished in Kemp City. This vu the
cond time in recent yearn that the
little town of 300 Inhabitant iu,s
1 een visited by a tornado.
Fight of the dead wore killed in
tiie town while the other victim, a
el Md. was killed in the co'inps of its
father's home just across the Red
r!vtl in Texas.
The dead:
Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Knox.
Dr. and Mrs. William Brinson.
Chaney Battele, cashier of the Bank
of Kemp.
M. E. Thomas, postmaster.
Artile Pleasant.
Mrs. J. W. Hively.
Six-year-old daughter of Dr. J. J.
McOillough.
i f the H persons injured :16
residents of Kemp City. Two daugh-1 arc1. February 15 to investigate reports
tern of Dr. McCullough were hurt at of a rich gild strike near Kalamai vol- I
'hetime their younger sister wascano pn '.he Alaska Ipeninsula 250
i ;m...i :. IF rr iif "i , i, M, i ,. . ' ct i rnu , . I
"Z i,,., ..... uwufe,, iii'iii. ii . j ni lies west oewa.u. M,,r? M Wrvnvh
unit:.-, we, ui Hvppvn .i".-,i ui i miwi taeaq zero we:.iner soon aiiei mfim
injured were caught in the collapse j Seward and when they reached the
of the buildings, or while trying to . uarr,.n islands, 100 miles from here,
reach storm cellars shortly after thejMjm, s ,,v al., hored t., weather the
storm broke at 9:22 p. m. Saturday. I j,torm
I he bodies of the victims In several I
instances were found hundreds of!
I ..... '- - - .....1 the other three
reimeii who were prospectors, left Sew- m ,wo and W,OUndU sev"
...i 1-. l !l..Wlll mtlHta " prii-ous
Many French Prisoners
BfeKUN, May M. (Via London.)
including ::i
officers. Hi machine guns and S can
non were captured in a new German
assault on the Verdun front in the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, May 21 A force of Rus
sian cavalry has joined the British ar
my oil the Tigris in Mesopotamia.
An official communication issued to
night concerning tne situation along
the Tigris follows:
General like reports that on the
nineteenth, the enemy vacated Beth
alessa advanced positions on tiie right
bank of the Tigris. General C.orringe,
following up the enemy, attacked and
carried the Dujailam redoubt. The en
emy is still holding the Bannayyat po
sition or the left bank of the river.
"A force of Russian cavalry has
joined Qenenti c.orringe after a hold
and adventurous ride."
The first news of tiie operations on
the Tigris since the fall of Kut-EI-AXnara,
sent today by Lieutenant Gen
eral Sir Percy Lake commander of
the British forces in Mesopotamia, al
though 't shows that the Turks are
still holding the Sannayyat position on
the left bank of the Tigris, where the
British check made it impossible to
carry out the relief of General Town
shen.I. hrinjs the welcome but aston-
:..v-;..n ;.-.Alli-An,. .1..., A I 1.. ..t t.
J?. .ll.p; M:i-IIIRVII' C LllrtL .1 IIUUJ 111. iUH- .,
Man cavalry, after an adventurous, ride I .
has succeeded in joining General Gor
ringe's forces on the south bank of the
Tigris.
How this Important junction was ef
fected is stdl unknown, and the story
will lii' awaited with intense interest.
The supposition is that this detach
ment cairtf from the regular army
which is threatening Khanikai but it
still retrains i puz.le wdiere and how
tin- Russians succeeded in crossing tne
i ivcr.
Their sudden appearance with Gen
eral Goriinge also has raised the ques
tion whether the Russians have al
ready tut the Bagdad railway at Mo
sul. In any case, the appearance of
Inis body of cavalry is as great sur
prise as was the first lauding of the
Russian troops at Marseilles and is
another instance cf the swift and
iiealthv movement of the Russian
forces in A.-ia Minor.
LANGHORNE'S FORCE MENACED
BY THE YAQU1 INDIANS; SIBLEY
MAY HAVE GONE TO HIS AID
SEVENTH CAVALRYMEN
ATTACKED BY BANDITS
Truck Driver from Boqual
las Arrives at Marathon
With Report that Expidi
tionary Force is in Danger
of Attack from Hear.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FIELD HEADQl'ARTERS, Mex.,
May 2" (Via Wireless to Columbus. N.
M. May ft). Thirteen troopei of the
I Seventh cavalry were fired upon yes
terday near the town ot TOmosachlC
and one was wounded The attack is
ascribed to bandits hiding about a
bridge near the town which is a few
miles southeast of Madera on the Mex
ico Northwestern railroad.
After a few shots the Mexicans fled
and the America continued on their
V; v.
A small group of Mexicans is falling
in behind the American columns as
they move northward, always keeping
oi;i of sight, but telling the natives
from Mexican soil. They stop when
ever the Americans halt and hide or
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
M WIATHOV Tex Mm- "1 AtmV
disarm if General Pershing men ap- j otaeen tonigm. were lnvesUsilting
proa' D them. j report brought from Boquilla-s bv a
Twp suppositiona are prevalent re- , tnrk driyer to thp rffet.t that Tmut
garding the identity of these men. one ! ,ndj.,MS were jn the rear of jj,,,.
is that they are Carranzistas trying Geor(IP i.anghorne's cavalry detach-
ie give ine American movement me ; m,.nt .,, in ,.nsi,if)n ... threaten it.
appearance of -a retreat. The other is
that they are bandits, seeking to an
n.iy the Americans by shipping. The
latter conjecture is the more favored.
mis is tne rust intimation receive I couriers sent to the border by the
recently that American soldiers were j expeditionary forces. Colonel Sihley.
position to
The report was without official con
firmation. According to the truek driver, who
said he got his information from
it they are chasing the
tationcd sc far to the south. AH re
ports have placed their southernmost
point at Namiquipa, which is a consid
erable distance to the north of Temo
sachic, from which it is also separated
ringoes" by
of the Sierra Madres.
FIRST REGIMENT AUSTRIANSARE
WITHQRAWNIS ATTACKING D
NOW ON BOBOER TRENT! EDO
I,
; office announced tVuduy. state-
On May 13 all but Mitchell went j mPn( says the Qarmaa lines were, ad -
:ihore in the small boat and when re- ...n.v.i lit) lh(. urn If h ttoul , ,,iiflU . .f tl.
partis from where their houses had j ,nrniP5 to tne iaunch were capsized, hill.
"! , . , , ,, , . . Campbell anc Ijirson were drowned The official Austrian statement of
The tornado played the usual freak-! , i n,i t rM,l- m i ... ,
j shor" w here he found himself in im- tensiv e gains in offensiv e mov ements
i mediate danger of freezing to death. j in the southern Tyrol, which has . ar
Alter trying to float matches ashore i ried the Austrians on to Italian terri-
I .... un Ci.lain ll.llacn i tl.rv fi.lh.n'U'
Brinson resilience was destroyed and.!- .1 Z ,',. . ,' ' f ,,
: I coi 1 10 triiio ;t 11. e. .iim iieii ,ni i.i.-.t-1 ,...t,..cn. m v. AUairo-
m-1 .. . . .... , . , U, ..;.. ....... .. . j .,
m.i .hi; nn. '1111 mnniiiMi rnp i - ' .mi,,ii 1,1 .iii.ni.s 1. .. i- .01. .lit.
cess to go op. the beach so as to aid ! further back on the front in southern
Hansen. Tyrol and in the Sugana valley.
A av l ro-Hungarians entered
ish tricks of auch a storm. The two-year-old
child of Dr. and Mrs. Brin
son, who were killed, was hurled Iff
feet with flying debris when the
suffered only minor
the child
juries.
After tiie storm passed emergency
treatment was atVMI the inbired in
i. j .i.u St.oolies at t tent were saved from , "o'o-nungarians entered .Mom egn
''lli'i-i.- 1 ' . i'. 1 1 tlllll , 1 111 lilt 1.1:11 1 .
fallintr it, torrent, A .,eeit truii, Uhe v reck and the two survivors byl'bi Armentura ridge Austro-Hungai
earrvi,, t w.u- i,elein. r- IM.. t tating mussels and occasionally sea la" trP captured Sash, alt.,
ison did not reach Kemu until sev-! gtlllu managed to subsist fairly well
o 1
. .1
LAHKIN CHOKES
SPEGTITRR 10
n 11 1 if r n n r i v r rv
I irauitui
I Republican A. P. Leased Wire Republican A. P. Leased WireJ
El. PASO, May 21. Approximately! ROME, May 21. The Austrians have
MM men of the Sixth cav alry, the j attacked w ith the greatest vigor along
fir-l regiment to be withdraw n from ! the Trent ino front especially between
General J. J. Pershing's expeditionary the Aflige and Brenta rivers. These
column, passed through Kl PtLso to- rivers are only about twenty miles
day on their way to the Big Bend apart but the fighting line is subdivid
ed of Texas where they will do
border patrol duty. The troops. Which!
ed into four sections by high mountains.
It is pointed out here, that as in ail
were carried in three special trains. : offenses in tiie present war the assail
afe expected to have eympleted de- ;,ig forces have at first decided ad
traioliuf at Sierra Blanta. Marfa. Al- ' vantage since the defenders must aban
pine and .Marathon tomorrow. Before don their advanced fortified lines, the
going into Mexico -tbout a month ago ( object of w hich is to hold and wear
the regiment was stationed on the ; down the enemy as much as possible.
bo
in the vicinity of Brownsville,
Rasso
Monte Meligonc
eral hours after the tornado passed.
Much Damage: No Deaths
YI'MA. Colo., May tV Kstim.ites
today of the damage caused by yes
terday's tornado, which struck this
town place the loss at approximately
tl &,. Many buildings were com
pletely wrecked. Several persons
were injured, but none seriously.
Tornado in Iowa
Hi:s MOINES, la.. May 11 A .tor
nado which sWept across Central
(Continued on Page Two)
until warm weat tier came.
Mitchell tried to cross in the small
boat Jo Cape Bttatabath but was com
pelled by adverse weather to turn back
to the island.
On May both men left the island
in the small boat and with a favorable
tide, rowed to Dog I'ish nay '17, miles
distant, where they rested and then
rowed to Seldovia, which they reached
n six hours. At Seldovia they were
taken aboard the Admiral I'arrtgut.
The bottle of Campbell and Iirsen
were left or. the beueh at the scene o."
the w reck.
WORLDLY AMUSEMENTSTOBE
DISCUSSED BY M.E.COHFEBENC
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SARATOGA SPRINGS. N. V. May'
21. -Tiie so-called "worldly amuse
ments" and their relation to members
of the Methodist Episcopal church
probably will overshadow in import
ance the majority of the pioposals to
be presented to the general conference
during the fourth week of the iiuad
rennial session, which begins to
morrow. Two definite propositions will be
submitted, one from the majorily of
I lie committee on the state of the
church which favors the retention of
the present prohibition against card
playing, dancing and theater going;
and another from the minority of thu
same committee, which will ask that
Hie paragraph be eliminated and thai
the position fif the church as opposed
to these amusements be made clear
by other means.
The rules of the church now pro
vide expulsion as a penalty for mem
bers who engage In these diversions,
(t is claimed that this is not enforced
by any pastor though previous at
tempts to change have always failed.
The advisability of continuing the
publication ot all the periodicals now
issued under church auspices will be
debated early in the week.
Although the election of bishop has
bein completed, missionary bishops
for Africis and Malaysia are to be
chosen, unless the conference reverses
its previous decision not to send gen
eral superintendents to these fields.
Nearly twenty-five officials of
elturch boards and editors of publica
tions also are to be elected.
A proposal to transfer headquarters
of the temperance society from Tope
ka Kas., to Washington. L. C, will be
offered this week, it was announced.
The committee which favors this ac
tion asserts that "the battlefield of
prohibition during the next iiuadren
nlam is to he on the Atlantic coast
and the fight will center at Washing
ton and Kansas needs the society the
least of any state in the union, be
cause most of the west has gone 'dry'."
William I Bryan, former secretary
of state, will speak tomorrow night at
the temperance anniversary.
Delia Venn. Toness
and Bcol Santo.
"Since the beginning of the Austro
Hungarlun attack we have captured
JS7 Italian .officers and more than
12.8UD men, s machine guns, ami 167
cannon,' including 12 howitzers of :'x
centimeters.
"Austro-Hungarian aviators bom
barded the railway Mat Ions at I'eperi.
Vicenza, Castelfrane. Treviso. Casatza.
Cervadale and Cividad and stations
of the enemy naval aeroplanes."
The statement of May It says:
"Along the coast and in the Carta -
thian front there was pause in the
fighting yesterdav. This morning the
Italians made two attacks against
positions east of Monfalcone which
recently were captured by us and
were repulsed.
"A naval air squadron dropped
bombs successfully on the railroad
station at the military station at San
Oorgio and Dinngara and on the en
emy's naval aeroplane station near
Grady.
"On the southern Tyrol front our
attack gained ground. We repulsed
six Italian attacks on Armentara
ridge. Our. forces nndeir the command
of I Untenant Field Marshal Archduke
Charles Francis iThe Austrian crown
price) advanced between the Astico
and Lain valleys and drove back the
enmy on the whole front. They cap
tured the Italian fortified positions at
C impomton and Torato. Between the
Lain and Brand valleys, near Vallai -sa.
we reached the northern edge of
Col Santo.
"The number of prisoners taken
since the beginning of the attack has
been increased to IJiS officers and
rtepubbcan A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. M.tv Jl. --James Larkin
the Irish lalioi leader and founder ot
the Irish "Citizen army" who has been
living in Chicago for some time leaped
I rom the stage of a down town the
ater today and attacked Matthew
Thomas Newman, a spectator, who had
urates ted at some remarks regarding
the measures taken by Kngland to
sup;. less t!. recent uprising in Ireland.
The disturbance came during the
preliminary stages of a mass meeting
called to protest against the execution
if J im.'s Connolly and thirteen other
Irish revolutionists.
' I.a'd;in choked and shook Newman
and then escorted him from the hall.
In his address Mr. Iarkin stated that
the Irish revolution lots were assisted
l.y Angela Spring-Rice, sister of Am
bassador Spring -Rice who represents
Great Britain at Washington.
Three rifles were stacked on the
rta-Je. Mr. Larkin dramatically held
one of them aloft.
Perhaps ; wi don't know who
brought this kind of rifles into Ire
land." he aaid. "Of course you don't
The press has never told you. Well, it
was Angela Spring-Rice, sister of Am
oassador Spring-Rice. It was she who
smuggled them in to us."
Decide on Base
COMj'MBTS, N. M.. May 11. Re
ports reaching here tonight that sup
plies and rations are being moved
back fifteen miles north from Nami-
While the Austrians have made ad
vances, they have sustained serious
losses.
In the Terragnolo valley as well as
on the high plateac of Kolgaria, the
Italians have abandoned villages in
Austrian territory which they had oc
cupied beyond the former frontier, as
qnipa and a tamp being ctabllshed these villages were advance posts.
gave rise to a lclief that the most
advanced base of General Pershing's
expeditionary column for the coming
rainv season has been decided upon.
The undesirability of the present
The following official communica
tion was issued today:
"In the Iigarina valley the enemy's
artillery yesterday bombarded our po
sitions on Bomzauga. Late in the
camp site al Namiguipa is believed ! evening the enemy attacked with three
to have brought the-decision. Nearly I huge masses of infantry after desper
: 11 .,f tile ten motor truck companies ate engagements were driven back
now operating are now in the interior with enormous losses. There was an
hauling the immense quantities of re- I intense action by the enemy artillery
ser' e supplies concentrated in the I against our line from Pasubio to the'
f.eld to the new location. Motor I Terragnolo valley.
truckmen reported that the trucks Between the Terragnolo valley and
have been in use so constantly that , the upper astico there has been moder
several of them have caught fire from ate artillery activity by both sides.
overheated engines and burned. she reinforced enemy is strengthening
Paled hay and grain in large qnan- his positions from Monte Maggio to
(Continued on Pago Two)
tities for horses is being sent forward
by truck train. Such a reserve eif ra
tions has been piled up at the stih
baaat that none has been shipped
from Columbus in the past forty -eight
hours.
ACTUARIAN HALL IS DEAD
Shitztonezza."
On the Main Line
BERLIN. May 21 (Via Wireless to
Sayville.) Positions captured by the
Austrians in the offesive movement
last week include some of the points
on the Italian main line of resistance.
Trial Of Dr. Watte Is To
Begin In New York Today
I Republican A. . Leased Wire I the mil one of which impelled him to
KXW YORK. May i'L The trial of I take the lives of his w ife's parents.
Dr. Arthur Warren waite for the ! li :, believed the first two days of
murder o( his wealthy father-in-law j the trial will be consumed inempan
Jobn fc Pee l; of Grand Rapids. Mich., , llinf, a jury because of the wide
will begin here tomorrow morning. ! publicity which has been given the
Among the lir, witnesses who have case since it was learned the aged
been summoned by the prosecution to Michigan millionaire's death was
test If v against waits is his wife, Mrs.
Clara Peck WaPe of Grand Rapids,
who has sued him for a divorce.
While the deense has made no of -fitiaj
statement as to what its course
will be, a plea ot Insanity will be of
fered Waite has contended that he Waite, will appear
was possessed of two personalities, I the prosecution.
caused by poison which his son -in -hvv
has confessed administering to
him.
The district attorneys office an
nounced tonight that Mrs. Margaret
Hortcn, "the studio companion1 of
a witness for
FIGHTING PARSON IS DEAD
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
QUINCT, Mass., May 21. Rev. lOd
vvard Anderson, known in Grand Army
of the Republic circles as "The fight
ing parson," died tonight at the age
of 82 years. He was an associate of
John Brown and at the outbreak of
the civil war, enlisted as a private, ris
ing to the rank of colonel.
Eight Thousand
Guardsmen Repel
Invading Force
Reoublican A. P. Leased Wirel
VKW YORK. May 21. Eight thou
sand rational guardsmen of New York
City organization mobilized in an, hour
and a half today to" repel kn attack
upon the city, threatened by a theo
retical landing force at Shadpshead
Bay speedway. The men were con
veyed to the "battle ground" in pri-
vatelv owned automobiles, motor
trucks, elevated trains and trolley
car".
The guardsmen in a noiseless bat
tle thrilled a large crowd of onlook
ers. The crash of artillery and rattle
of rifle fire was forbidden liecause of
the Sunday observance law. An av ia
tion exhibition closed the proceed
mga.
republican A. P. Leased Wirel !
BALTIMORE, May 21. -Clayton Col- !
man Hail, founder of the Actuarial I
Society of America and regarded as'
one of the highest authorities in this I
country on insurance statistics died
here today. He was 6X years old.
ALFRED DEQUET DEAD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS May. 22. The death has
been announced of Alfred Dequet, the
author. Dequet wrote a number of
works on historical and military subjects.
(Continued on Page Two)
who was leading the advance out of
Mexico, has retraced his steps in or
der to reinforce Lnnghtrne.
Several days ago reports crossed
the border that 400 Yaeiuis had left
Cuatro Cienegas in the direction of
R. iqiiillas.
Similar reports were brought here
tonight by captain H. I.. Kvans. of the
army signal corps. He asserted that
he had been told that upon receipt
of some information concerning a
Yaoui movement toward the Ameri
can border, Colonel Sibley had turned
bn.'k to the interior and was prepar
ing, if necessary, to reinforce Major
Uingrorne, who was holding up the
rear.
Marauders cut the army telegraph'
line between Marathon and the Mex
ican frontier in three places last Fri
day night. According tOv Captain
Evans, who arrived from BomtflMS,
" here he had been directing the erec
tlr n of the line.
Captain Evans said also that one
of the poles had been destroyed at a
point about five miles north of Bo
quillas. No definite clue to the iden
tity of the vandals has been obtained.
Captain Evans pointed out that if
communication is to be maintained
between Marathon and Colonel Sib
lew's sub-base at Boquillas that the
whole line will have to ie patrolled
with soldiers.
"In view of Friday night's occur
rences, this step is absolutely neces
sary" he added.
Later military authorities admitted
that they had heard reports that Ya
f)Ui Indians threatened the rear of
Major Langhorne's column, but point
ed out that the reports Vetv unoffi
cial and lacked verification.
No appreVension for the safety for
the column seemed manifest here it
hi ing asserted that it is amply able
to give good account of itself should
it he attacked by any hostile force on
its mum to the frontier.
The unted column, consisting of two
iioops and a. machine gun troop of
the Eighth cavalry, under Colonel
Sihlev. and two troops of the Four
teenth cavalry, under Major Lang
borne, totals approximately B66 men.
This force, plentifully supplied with
sustenance and its movements expe
dited by the addition of motor trucks
and automobiles should suffice, ac
cording to military men. to combat
twice their number on the Ccahuila
plains, where any attacking force
must travel for days without food or
water.
No news was available here at a
late hour tonight concerning: the two
bandit bands previously reported as
being near La Jintas and Terliugua.
In some quarters credence was given
a rumor that it is these bands and
not Yaqui Indians, whose movements
have given rise in the report that
Major Langhorne's rear is menaced.
COL. SIBLEY'S FDBCE RETURNS
50,000 TROOPS MIT OBDERS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., May L'b
With the arrival on the American side
of Col. BiMey's little force that rescued
Jesse Deems and Monroe Payne and
chased the bandits Mi miles into Mex
ico, General' Funston's command of
nearly r.a.Ono men tonight awaited developments.
'ortii n of the army under Genertl
ing in Mexico has become as in-
as the remainder of the big
j iiuturi tun e ami bo lai as armv oit:
. . l-a(.s know, the period of comparative
the Hudson river today. Floating sea- Inaction will la? unbrtiken unless thu
ward, it sank scattering the flowers ' initiative is taken by Mexicans.
over the water m memory of the
American sailors and soldiers buried at
Hold Mass For Deceased
Sea And Land Fighters ;:B
Republican A. P. Leased Wij-e
BOSTON, May 21. Fifty thousand
perSOtM attended an open air mass at
th navy yard today in memory of de
ceased soldiers, sailors and marines,
he service was arranged by the de
partment of Massachusetts army and
navy union and was proceeded by ar
my ar.d civic parade in which many or
ganizations participated. Anfong those
preset waes Cardinal o'Connell.
The altar, which was erected at the
extreme end of tbe parade grounds w as
hanked with growing plants and cut i ..-',i ; J
... , ... iikiiiiii. in tut' nation. l lie i
nowers, wn.ue tne masis ot nattiesnips ceremonies wore under the auSOlces rCteheral Funston's request for
...... i wi.,,.. iiiutt.cu ti. me. of t.lt, aimy and navv union depart-
backgrc.-nd. J ment ()f Ponnsylvunia an(1 n-er(1 m
eeeded by ;i parade which was re
viewed by Captain Robert L. Russell.
sea.
Memorial services were held by the
Daughters of Veterans, assisted by
naval veterans of 1 8H1 - j.
Also at Philadelphia
PHILADELPHIA. May 21. A mil
itary mass was held on the camous at
Colonel Sibley has not reported his
troops on ihis side of the Rio Grand"
tonight, but his last reiKirted position
was so far north that his arrival wa3
hourly expected.
The Texas militia mobilized hero
will be sent forward to border stations
in a few days and today the sixth cav
alry that bis been in Chihuahua under
cneial I'ershing was moving into the
Flowers on the Waters
,. r,v, .vuy .i. larr.ving a i commandant of the navy yard
deckload of flowers and gay with flags, More than SMM persons attended
a miniature warship was launched in I the service.
the Philadelphia navy yard today in 1 K,8 Bond district where additional
memory of the deceased soldiers, sail- 'companies of the coast artillery, will bo
The located if the war department grants
more
troops. i ; 4
(Rciiorts of contemplated raids along
the border, especially in. the Browns
ville district, continue to reach Gen-
eral Funston but ail official reports
from border army stations were that
the situation was unchanged.
