UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
V
w
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, MONDAY, MAY 22, 1916
COLUMBIA NEGROES
WOULDJTOP SHOW
Petition Is Out to Prevent
Inhibition of- "Birth
of a Nation."
200 hICJNKRS TODAY
Action Is Taken by" Pastors
of Local Churches After
a Mass Meeting.
NUMBER 227
FOUR VETERAN'S IN LAST (JA3IES
Charging "lat the photoplay, "The
Ilirlli of ii Nation," is false, misleading
and degrading to tin- negro rare, the
negro. of Columbia In a mass meet
ing at the Christian C'liuri'li esterday
afternoon decided to take steps to
prevent tlie appearance of the picture
In Coluinliia.
Tlie jiastors of tlie four churches
were appointed as a committee to
circulate the petition and confer with
Mayor J. M. liatterton in regard to
stopping 'he picture . Tliis afternoon
Hogir, Iliuis, Woody mid Tu)Ior Start
Final Series Today.
The Tigers began their last series
of 191G Conference baseball with the
Kansas Aggies this afternoon. "These
are the most critical games of the
season," said Director C. L. Iirewer
today. "Hy losing today or tomorrow,
we will practically be eliminated from
Valley honors, unless Kansas should
lose one of its four remaining games.
If the Tigers should win both games
from the Aggies and Kansas should
win all four, then the championship
would remain a tie between these two
teams.''
The Aggies are here to win. They
have three pitchers, Hodgson, Ferrar
and Hewey, who rank with any in the
Valley, and a good fielding anil hit
ting team. They were defeated by the
Tigers earlier in tlie' season and later
by Kansas by the scores of 4 to 2 and
4 to 0. The Aggies last week won
from St. .Mary's College, a team that
had previously beaten Kansas.
Ilryant, Giltner and Taylor will do
the pitching, llumgarner was injured
in the Kansas game Saturday and will
probably not he able to catch. Owens
or Taylor will do the receiving in case
llumgarner does not start.
Four men who have represented the
University in almost every game dur
ing the last three years are playing
RETIRING 0,S, TROOPS WELCOME VISITOR
PURSUED BY BANDITS
Four Groups Committing Porch Climber Appears lie
Depredations in Wake of ' fore Girls at Sampson Hall
American Forces. in Early Morning.
THE WEATHER
flr"rt m'!Ii","I,I:"1",1 Vl0lty: i'iierally
cl..... i. . :""1 .T""'--y: "t much
ciinuge la temperature.
.!i"Vn,Urour,: ,:(,"H- fair tonight
a ml lue-ilav: not imi.-i. ..I,.,,.-., i- ..?... i
riHMM.r,. "' " ""ill- I
YtYiitlirr Ciinillliuns.
fair weather prevails this morning in
Missouri jl Kas.is. ; N,tlmi.,t t,. Hi..
ij.,ii ir'il.",r: '" .,.,,e ''"'in-ler of the
., ...V "'"' ""'I ' "Utheni rana.la the
weather Is unsettled.
During the past twenty four limirs r:ilns
...... sniprai in ine .Missouri Mil. I .Mlsslssili-
pi valleys, :in. eastw.itd to l'eiinsvlraiita
leliness,,. :n A.ll..llli:l. :nl sontll :iluiiK
I lit" Ieas eii:ll; lliey were t-M-essive from
.. .-rie.iiis i., l.nllesl.ili. oler four Ill.hes
o.v.irriiig at tlie former an.l our .si
Iin-hes :it the latter pl.u-e
Se:lsoii:i telii-r.ltlires oht.iln In the
prliieiii.il gmln :nnl ...ll..n stales, l,i,t the
weather Is tiirnini.- ler in the Toner
Missouri anil .Northern Koekv Mount'iiii
Mates l-rost oeeurre.1 last HBilt
VI .voiiilii:;. -Monta Washington, Oregon
Malm anil Nevada.
In I'oliimliia gener.illy fair weather with
m.Mlerate teiniH-ralnre will ireall during
the net two or three il.ivs.
' Im-iiI ll.itu.
bands of .Mexican bandits are reported floor f o.,mnsnii Unll friMitnnort I ' .'" -'"'"' '''"l-eriiture ' (ihimiil.i
TERROR IS SPREADING.CALLS AT READ, TOO
I
Reports Say That One Band 'University Women's Screams
Chairman of Civic League
Health Committee Upholds
Miss Hamilton.
of 60 to 70 Men Fired
on Seventh Cavalry.
I!y t'nlleil Press.
COLU.MHUS, X. M., May 22.-
Drive Intruders Away
Each Time.
The screams of two girls who oc-
-Four CUpy tJC sleeping porch on the first
I
1
., . ., , , 1"""' "l --"""" "-" ""u"-'u yestenlay was 71; i the lowest last
to be moving north in the wake of the. av,-ay ., intruder who made his en- "lKhl, .Ka ''" preeli.it.ttl ii; relative
retiring American forces. committing ( trance into the hall about 1:301?" ,!&
depredations and spreading terror in
the villages in their path. It is
thought that one of the hands, which
number from sixty to seventy men.
o'clock yesterday morning.
The midnight prowler evidently
climbed from the alley on Paquin
street, oer the stone wall and into'
tnre was ;s
; tation. .do.
anil the lowest
The Alintin.lr
"lay. I:."JI a.
nera
; preeipi-
lired on some of the troops of tho'ti,0 sleeping porch. Then he stole
Seventh Cavalry. ' ,rom the porch Into the parlor of the
miii rose loiiav. I-..JI a. in.
':-! p. 111.
Moon rises, morn.
The Temperatures Toiliiy.
7 a. 111. i;i II a., in.
s a. 111. I'.", 1-j in
suite and from thence into the hall-1 y a in. i;7 1 p.' m. S.
in a. lit. Jul p. 111.
AIR BAD, SHE SAYS
Poor Sanitation Declared to
Be Responsible for Much
Tuberculosis.
tlite petition had 200 signers.
According t. (1. M. Tillmann, pastor their last Karnes of University base-
of St. Paul's Methodist Episcopal
Church. Mayor liatterton promised to
do all in his power to prevent the pic
ture being shown if it was all that the
petition represents it to be.
J. I!. Coleman, a negro, said tiiat it
was the purpose of the negro resi
dents to stoji tlie picture if possible or
at least hae the objectionable fea
tures cut out.
"The Rirth of a Nation' is based on
conditions of lifty jears ago," he said,
"and is utterij untrue to life. Where
ever it is shown, the result is strife
ami ein. itj bet veeti the races. There
l:ae been many instances, after its
p velitation, where negroes hav.' !; n
discharged from positions.
'The picture encourages mob ,io
lem-e. inflames hatred against the ne
gro, and by so doing ciidangir.s hi:
life and pioperty."
ball this week. They are Hogg, first
base; Davis, third base; Captain
Woody, center field, and Taylor,
pitcher. Httmgarner, catcher, has
been on the siuad two years, but will
be graduated this spring.
HIUMVNS LOSE TO .MEXICO, ll-l
i!ii:i: vi:noi.i i:vii:i:i:i iiEiti:
I'nila.lt Ipliia PricVtiuii.titr Mare al
l.ncal Coiiiiui'urfiiifiil Shim.
The Sj'iird annual commencement
Horse Show will begin a week from
today. And tlie entries are looking up.
There's the man-, lluren Arnold, from
the stables of Illades & Ilolman of
Ilolliday, who has been making a
name for herself in the Kast, having
taken six firsts out or ten classes at
Philadelphia recently. Ituriai Arnold
won second place in the three- gaited
saddle class and second in tlie light
harness class at the Pil.'i commence
ment show.
Illades & Ilolman are also .showing
a junior live-gaited saddle mare, Sal
ly Cox.
A Kentucky newspaper of last week
sajs. 'John lljok. Miss Long's sad
dle horse superintendent, is getting a
great stable of horses in shape for
the commencement show at Colum
bia. He expects to bring out some
new ones and the show is bound to be
an exciting one."
Another stable from Illinois wishes
to get into the entry book. Iast night
entries were coming in over the tele
phone, today being the last day they
will be received.
I.ancasler, Winning Pitcher, Scores
20 Slrlkc-Ouls Against Coluinliia.
Lancaster's pitching wait too much
for the Columbia Ilrowns yestday
afternoon and Mexico won by a scjro
of 11 to 4. Tlie game was played at
Mexico. Twenty Ilrowns were sent to
the bench by the strikeout route. Lan
caster allowed eight hits. Mexico got
sixteen.
The game was played on a muddy
field and was very slow. .Manager
Morris presented a new line-up in an
effort to win but seven errors was the
result.
The Ilrowns play Centralia at Co
lumbia next Sunday. Six new men
will be in the liue-up.
"If good ball jdayers can be found
we will have them for tlie game with
Centralia next Sunday," said Manager
Morris this morning.
NEW MAP SHOWS AIIITUIIES way.
I Miss I.ucile Klein, who occupies the
Kroniis 1 Itiione Countj's Highest 'ext room to the suite, awoke and saw
Point; Cliijs.illr, Liincst. !-, dark object outlined in her door.
That there is "considerable varia-iShc asked, "Who's there?" but rc
tion in Hoone County altitudes is reived no answer from the dark fig
shown by a new state map recently Is- 'lire, which glided away.
Sees Ccnlralia Heat Miiherly, ,V2.
George K. Thomson, county treas
urer, spent a part of yesterday at Cen
tralia. While there he saw the ball
game between Moberly and Centralia,
which Centralia won by a 5 to 2
score. Mr. Thomson said that Mober
ly lent zest to the game by bringing a
brass band and about six hundred
rooters.
sued by the Missouri Iiureau of Geol
ogy and Mines. The highest point in
Hoone County is at Ilrowns, where an
elevation of 915 feet is obtained, while
the low point is at Claysville, which
has an elevation of 5G2 feet. ,
Other altitudes in Hoone County
are: Ilartsburg, ."t;2 feet; Wilton, 50 1
feet; Kasley, 501! feet; Hwitsdale 391
feet; Uocheport, 397 feet; Harrisburg,
S 12 feet; Sturgeon, S55 feet; Centralia;
SS4 feet.
The highest point In the state is
Tautr. Sauk Mountain, in Iron Coun
ts. To lind the lowest point we must
go to the southeast corner of Pemis
cot County, where the Mississippi
leaves the state on its way to the
Gulf. Here the elevation is only 225
feet.
The elevation of all the principal
cities and towns in the state, together
with accurate locations of railroads,
streams, and county boundaries, are
.shown b tlie map. which can bo ob
tained from Stale Geologist II. A.
P.uehler. Holla.
Wll-I, IIOLH ALFALFA OAMPAHJX
I ItUF.H TO i:Ti:i TOI'HNAMEXT
Fiiiwrsilt Coif Hub May Send Two
Tennis In Kansas City.
Tlie I'niversity Golf Club has been
urged to send two teams to compete
in the state amateur championship
tTJlf tournament at Kansas City Juno
19 to 21. The event will be the
twelfth annual men's championship
tournament and the second annual
contest for women players. The men's
tournament will be played on the
course of the Illue Hills (Tub and the
Women's on the Mission Hills Club
course Tlie following events apply
to both tournaments: championship.
est thirty-two scores to qualify;
Class II iiet best sixteen scores to
l'ialif : Class c, next best sixteen
scores to qualify: special class, next
est lhiit-two scores to qualify.
Entries must be mailed to Missouri
Golf Association. Homier .Miller, treas
urer. :.i:::i Morton Place, St. Ixniis.
t'HHISTOPH IIII.KE, ;.'. IS HEAD
SI. l.oiiisan Was .Member of Stale
Hoard of Agriculture.
Christoph Hilke of St. Louis, one of
the corporate members of the State
Hoard of Agriculture, died of heart
disease after an operation last Wed
nesday, .May 17. The funeral services
were held this morning at his home,
1515 Bremen avenue. Mr. Hilke was
G5 years old.
For many years Mr. Hilke had
been in the grain and commission
business in St. Louis. Here was where
his warm friendship with David H.
Francis, who was In the same busi
ness for several years, was formed.
Jewell Mayes, secretary of the
board, went from Columbia to attend
the funeral.
I'liiiersilj mid State Hoard to Help
Knox County Agent.
An alfalfa campaign will bo held
this week in Knox County under the
direction of F. K. Longmeler, the
county agent, a former student In the
University. Four men from the Col
lege of Agriculture, M. F. Miller, L.
F. Childers, W. II. llaker and W. H.
Hargrove, and two from the State
Hoard of Agriculture, Sam M. Jordan
and W. D. McKee, will assist.
The campaign will consist of field
meetings of the farmers, with dem
onstrations and examinations of soils,
A few minutes later Miss Louise
Flournoy, who was on tlie sleeping
porch, awoke and saw a man standing
in the door which leads to the sleep
ing porch. She began to scream and
awakened her sister, Miss Jean Flour
noy, who joined in the chorus. This
was too much for the erstwhile prow
ler, who made a dash for the exit. He
was soon in the street, leaving as a
clue only the light finger prints made
in the soot which covered the stone
ledge when ho climbed up and a few
farewell heel prints in the rain-soaked
ground where he landed in his flight.
Screams had the power of momen
tarily frightening hut not of deterring
the prowler, however, for last night
lie favored the Read Hall with a visit.
Miss Ruby Harstinc heard a noise
and left her room to determine the
ea-se. The next thing was a piercing
scream, which brought all of the girls
to the scene. Miss Harstine fainted
and when revived told her compan
ions that she had seen a man leaving
one of the rooms. The only clue in
this case was an open window, but
opinions differed as to whether the
window was open or closed at bed
time last night. Miss Harstine de
clares that the man left by the fire
escape.
Sun si-ts. I
71
----ii
ALPINE LOSSES HEAVY
Both Austrian and Italian
Forces Report Gains in
Mountain Attacks.
Hy United Press.
VIKXNA, May 22. Italian assaults
and counter attacks to check tlie Aus
trian invasion Saturday and Sunday
failed with heavy losses. Tho Aus
trians captured Hi.OOO men and three
new positions and are continuing their
advance in the Astico region.
Austrian Losses Estimated at 20,000.
ROME, May 22. Reports here to
day estimated the Austrian losses, in
killed, wounded and missing in the
first three days of their offensive
around tlie Tyrolese Alps, at 20,000
men.
Kalian Liner Sunk.
RO.MK, May 22. It was reported
here today that the Italian liner. Saint
Andrea, has been sunk by ;ui Austrian
submarine.
COMPETITIVE DRILL IIEI.H TOUA V
Testimony bearing out that or Miss
Hertha Hamilton, whose arraignment
of insanitary conditions in the local
llamilton-Ilrowu shot' factory was
published in tlie Missoiiiian yesterday,
was gheii today by .Mrs. J. K. Wrench,
chairman of the health committee of
the Women's Civic league. In an in
terview with a Missourian reporter.
.Mrs. Wrench accompanied Ml.ss
Hamilton, who is the visiting nurse of
tlie Columbia Charity Organization
Society, on a visit to the factory last
December. Their mission was to sell
Red Cross seals to the workmen.
Describing conditions in the fac
tory, she said:
"The air in the shoe factory Is so
vitiated with leather dust, wood alco
hol and paint, or whatever it is that
they use to polish and dye the leath
er, that I am told that women can sel
dom stand to work a full day there
until they get used to the air. Vou
know that air which is foul enough
to make a trained nurse ill must be
very bad, and Miss Hamilton was al
most knocked out by it.
"We saw maaiy workers who ap
peared to be tuberculous. Since then
.Miss Hamilton has made investiga
tions which have convinced her that
most of the tuberculosis in Columbia
comes from the shoe factory."
150 STUIii:.TS IN" C. C. I'AGEAXT
Hoy Stouts Will I'sher at Entertain
ment Tomorrow Aight.
Electricians are busy today on the
Christian College campus arranging
for the lighting of the grounds for the
May pageant to be given tomorrow
night. One hundred and fifty girls
will take part in the processional,
which will include May day singers.
nlm inli ilntwin nnllnnn oininfC flO-
particular emphasis being placed on'" ' . "
milieu as socici ut-miuunt, iuii-11
those soils fitted for the cultivation
of alfalfa.
EDWARD I. EIIWAHHS, AS, DIES
WAITE WILE PLEAH INSANITY
Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Slmttee Return.
Mr and Mrs. Harry C. Slmttee, who
'ook par) It the recent double elope
ment of University students and
Christian College girls, returned this
Afternoon from Joplin, where they
have been visiting Mrs. Shuttec's pa
rents Mr. slmttee, who Is a senior
a the College of Agriculture, will re-eiu-
hi-, degree in June.
Now York Hentist tJoes on Trial for
Murder This Afternoon.
Ity United Press.
NEW YORK, May 22. With two
women arrayed against him. Doctor
Arthur Warren Waite, dentist-lover,
went on trial this afternoon for the
murder of his father-in-law, John
Peck. His wife and his studio com
panion will be the state's chief wit
nesses. Waite has confessed the mur
der, and his attorneys will plead in
sanity as defense.
The selection of the jury, which re
quired two hours and fifty-seven min
utes, set a record for New York.
The prosecution began at 2 o'clock.
II 11 rial of Colombia Resident Will He
Tomorrow Afternoon.
Edward I). Edwards, 48 years old,
died at 12::!0 o'clock today at his
home on Luin avenue. Grip and a
complication of other diseases were
the cause. 1 Ie had been ill about four
months.
Mr. Edwards is survived by his
wife, Mrs. Elizabeth Edwards, a school
teacher, and a sister, Miss Laura Ed
wards, employed at the Strawn-Xcate
Dry Goods Store.
Funeral services will bo held at
Miss I.iura Edward's home, 201 South
Sixth street, at 2:;0 o'clock tomorrow
afternoon. Burial will be in tlie Co
lumbia Cemetery.
bearers, college juniors costumed as
Shakespearean ciiaracters, court danc
ers, queen and court.
Hetwcen the Shakespearean tab
leaux will be given the Spring Dance.
'the Rose Dance and the Rainbow
Dance. Immediately after the crown
ing of the queen the Firefly Dance
will bo given.
Tho costumes are furnished by a
costumer in St. Louis. Miss E. L.
Shepard of Columbia will furnish the
hats. A company of Roy Scouts will j
have charge of seating the audience,
.iciileiimit W. J. Fitzgerald of Kem
per Judges 31. U. Conlest.
Lieutenant William J. Fitzgerald of
Kemper Military Academy acted as
judge of the University cadet corps'
annual competitive company drill this
afternoon. Three places were award
ed, the best drilled company receiv
ing the cup with the name of the cap
tain engraved upon it.
The cadets drilled in dress uniform.
Each company was allowed ten min
utes in which to execute the various
movements.
An examination of tho trophy shows
the first battalion to have almost a
monopoly on the cup. Since 1S93,
when the cup was first awarded. Com
pany E has been the only company of
the second battalion to win the cup.
Company H leads the roll, having won
the cup seven times. Company C
comes next, with six wins; Company
A three; Company I), two; Company
E, one.
SUNDAY SPECIAL KILLS LAHOREII
North Hoone ('ountiuns Want Road.
The County Court met today. Judge
W. T. Johnson presiding. A iietition
was heard from residents in the north
part of the county who wanted a new
road established. Xo other business
was transacted. J. T. Rowland and
'rack-Walker Could Not Hear or See
Well Thrown 8 Feet.
Walter Galloway, a laborer, met the
same accident that caused his father's
death several years ago when he was
Jstruck, while walking the track bc-
jtwecn Clark and Renick, by tho Billy
Agricultural Club .Meet Tonight. Sunday special train that left Colum-
The Agricultural Club will meet atjbia Friday morning. Roth father and
7:20 o'clock tonight in tlie auditorium , son wore partially deaf and blind,
of the Agricultural Huilding. Officers ' The Columbia passengers heard the
for the first semester of next year will , engineer whistle and felt tho brakes
be elected. Reports of the Farmers' , grind. When the train stopped, they
Fair will be made, annoncements and poured out of tho cars to sco tho cause
reports of the horse show will beof tho delay.
given and a trial for those students ' Galloway had been thrown right
who failed to fill the requirements as
to work on the fair will be held.
KARRI HARRISON SPEAKS HERE
Will to lleliew Neecssarj, He Tells 31.
I'. Jewish Students.
Citing Prof. William James' phrase,
"The will to believe," Rabbi Leon Har-
ris'on of St. Ixiuis, in an address before
the Jewish Students' Congregation,
last night, subdivided the phrase Into
the active and the passive will to be
lieve. He said the passive will fo be
lieve was the result of Inheritance a-iid
training, and the active will to be
lieve the outcome or choice and of
the need to believe.
Emphasizing the word "loyalty" as
a unifying force in religion, he said:
"The Christian who is disloyal to his
faith deserves to be spat upon, and
the Jew who is disloyal to his faith
1? not worthy of the name of Jew or
of the name of man."
"CITY ORDINANCES TOO LA.V
Dr. Kuiiipsehmidt Doubts Vthether
Hoard Has Poner to Avt.
Dr. A. W. Kampscbmidt, a member
of the City Hoard of Health, said to
day, speaking of tho story in the .Mis
sourian yesterday about conditions at
the Humiltou-Hrowu Shoe Factory,
that he doubted whether the city ori-
nances gatfe the board power to rem
edy conditions.
The same sentiment was voiced by
Dr. W. A. Xorris, another member of
the board. Doctor Xorris said ho sup
posed the board vould make an inves
tigation and make recommendations,
but wasn't sure whether it would be
possible, under the present city health
ordinances, to carry out the recommendations.
.Mayor J. M. liatterton, when seen
this morning by a Missourian reporter.
had just returned from Kansas City
and was thinking more about the
great work being carried on by Hilly
Sunday than about Columbia's health.
'Sunday Is a wonder," said the
mayor.
"Don't you think the situation at
the- Hamilton-Hrow-11 Shoe Factory
should be presented to the City Coun
cil?" asked the reporter.
"Yes, I think that would be a pretty
good Idea," replied the mayor.
CRITICISES .MISS HAMILTON
Otliee .Manager Declines to Comment
on Nurse's .Statement.
In tho absence of Paul L. Ilogan,
superintendent of the Columbia fac
tory of the Hamilton-Iirowii Shoe Com
pany, John F. Tehan, oflice manager
of the factory, was asked this morning
if ho had any statement to make In
regard to Miss Hertha Hamilton's
criticism of factory conditions.
His only comment was: "I think
very little of a woman who makes an
investigation in December and gives
out the report in May she ought to
have her salary raised. And I think
less of the paper that will print it."
He declined to comment on the ques
tions of sanitation raised by Miss
Hamilton.
Mr. Ilogan is in St lnis 011 busi
ness and will return to Columbia in
a day or two.
('eritiaus Retreat Hefore French.
I'.y United Press.
PARIS. May 22. French counter
attacks drove the Germans from their
positions on both banks of the Meuse.
At Verdun the renewal of heavy fight
ing marked the beginning of the
feet to tho opposite track. Tho bones
in his legs were broken in several
places and a largo gash was cut in his
head. Ho was taken to tho baggage
car, where ho died of his Injuries be-j
foro the train arrived at Moberly.
30 POUNDS OF HONEY IN TREE
MAY RE-ENACT HEATH SCENE
Chums of .Marion Lambert Visualize
Trugeilj for Jurors.
liV t'nlleil Press.
WAUKEGAX, III., May 22. Marion
Lambert, for whose death William Or-
Ren Tate, associate judges, were at fourth month of the greatest battle in
the meeting.
history.
Will Address Shelbina firaduates.
Dr. C. A. Ell wood will leave tomor
row for Shelbina, where he will de
liver tho commencement address at
tho Shelbina High School.
Hut Seieral 31. U. Students Are Slung
in Capturing the Sweets.
Thirty pounds of honey were found
in a giant elm tree by the University
class in apiary culture yesterday. The ! pet Is being tried, was not a suicide,
tree was on J. II. Sheppard's farm, 'according to Josephine Davis, a chum
near McRaine on Perche Creek. iof the dead girl, who will be one or
Two complete colonies of bees were ; the state's chier witnesses. She is
in the tree. They were captured, put (expected to start her testimony some-
in hives and then given to Mr. Shep-
pard. Thirty men braved the sting
or the bees to reach the honey. Most
or the men were stung one or more
times.
time Friday.
It Is reported that the prosecuting
attorney will have school chums of
Marlon re-enact the scene in the woods
as a part of the evidence in the trial.
