THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 58.
BAUHE, VERMONT, MONDAY, MAY 22, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
FORGEGERMANS
TO SURRENDER
BLOCKHOUSES
Several Positions in the Avo-
court Wood Were Aban
doned To-day, Following
the Severe Fighting Last
Night, Says the French
Official Communication
BATTLE OF VERDUN
ON FOURTH MONTH
Paris. Mav 22. The Verdun
battle, the longest and most bit
terly fought individual struggle,
enters upon it fourth month to
day. Tim Germans are. btill ham
mering Dead Man's hill, whore the
bloodiest fighting of the conflict
haa taken place. Clinging desper
ately to the trenches captured, the
Teutons have hurled their 00,000
men, backed by 00 bRtteries, for
ward along the seven-mile front
from Avocourt wood to the Mouse,
in an effort to seize the summit.
1 lie (icrmans succeeded in gain
ing a footing in the French first
line at a severe loss, but, judging
from paiit experience, it will not
be difficult for the French to dis
lodge them before the (Germans fol
low up their advantage. That the
Germans must continue the on
slaught or abandon the idea of
, n,,, rimntTiriT ti - II tatting v erciun seems ouvious.
nw rAn man's wttj.
menr, ot the round-up by the military au
thorities of the participants in the Dublin
uprisings, after the leaders began to sur
render, a number of Sinn Feiners escaped
n comns, according to a report that
has reached here through the Sinn Fein
"underground railroad." The escapes are
said to have been facilitated by the mo
mentary relaxation, in the tumult, of the
usual rules concerning death and burial
certificates. The supiioged corpse would
be .placed in a liearse and followed by a
few friends to the burial ground. After
the service at the grave the priest would
be called away and engaged in conversa
tion, thus giving the grave diggers an
opportunity to surround the coflin and
lift up tne "corpse." The released man
was able to walk to the secluded end of
tha graveyard and thus to liberty
I'aris, May 22. French grenadiers oc
.. : i i i.i... i . i . : tin. a ...
rupieu Bi-vrmi uiw in.ur.-s in mc ortArt Ifn 4 T A XTCt TWIT- ft"
court wood on the Verdun front after 3,000 ITALIANS AND 2d
. i i-1 . i i i .I . 1 1 : 1
me uermana RDanuonea mem juiiuwhik n i xTTf timon Cri7rn
severe fighting last night. The struggle 11" Wl U CjIXFU OMUIjjU
west of Dead Man's hill was terrific. The
war office says the Gerjmins attacked the Austria Reoorts Makinff Great Advance.
positions at .taunremoni quarries, i
U.S. FORCES
IN DANGER
500 TROOPS AT N0RTHFIELD.
Mobiliiatfon of Vermont National Guard
Was Held Saturday,
Korthfleld, May 22. The mobilization
of the first Infantry of the Vermont Na
tional Guard by means of automobiles
took place at XorthfieM on the parade
grounds ot ,orwirti university Saturday
WHOLE VILLAGE
THREATENED
Germans Failed East of the
Meuse to Recover Haudre-
mont Quarries, Which Had
Been Captured by the
French in Bitter Engage
mentGermans Are Said
to Have Lost Heavily
Wncfilo MoviViin MnvAmonta 'n 'be
i uirct.ueu
S m I '
isiear uoi. biDiev s rrooDS bad ma
" I i'n .
- .1 . I nravy car vrauic.
Are Iteporiea Eleven of the 12 companies of t,he in
fantry were represented, Co. I of Brat-
tleboro being the only organization not
participating, to. A of Rutland, D of
WILLIAM MEARS, JR.,
SHOT IN SHOULDER
Former Barre Young Man Victim of Man
it Haverhill, Mass., and Is In
Hospital There.
Reports received here Sunday from
WAS THROWN
ON HIS HEAD
face of threatening weather and Eirrrif Blli1Hinfr5 in Grntnn William Mcars, jr.. grandson of William Selectman Oliver W. J tin
i by several days of rain which fa1"- " b " yvwu Mw of yun gtr(..,t who WM f W1. f v
do many of the roads unsuited CaUght Fire During shot in Haverhill, Mass., Saturday fore- OI VV UlIdlTlSIOWn V a in-
I . ..Aa-J iL..i nniinrr TYiatl WHHI " 1 1-
High Wind
noon, stated that tne, young mnn
resting comfortably in a hospital, wnun-
er he was removed soon after the shoot
ing. The first information of the affair
jured inaRu'ay
NO CONFIRMATION Z;JXT? S. WELCH'S STORE
HRARn nFFTCTATJiY -nd L of Newport had large repre
-inatiuiiH, averaging more wian 4a to Hie
company. There were about 600 of the
infantrymen all told. A large number of
the business men of Rutland. Newport, I " . , , , ,
Montpelier. St. Jolinsburr, Bellows Falls HOSmer BrOS. btOneSneCl at
and Northtield were present. " , no Timo Woo
The firat. Knniidrnn tvf rati rv wro lha vyiiv. i "v ii
host and entertained the many guests
with teats ot horsemanship, exhibition
arms and manoeuvres, cavalry and mtan
try tactics,
The infantry and the business men ae-
Endangered Soldiers Said
to Be South of Bo-quillas
i .
the telenhone Satur
day afternoon, when Deputy Sheriff H. -J. HH JND1 ..INNING
hiavton was aovisea oi n. Jnru w
WAS fiF!STRnV"F!n obtain more details were not wholly sue
cess I in, dui it was siaicu mat initio nou
hurried to the hospital after a bullet had
penetrated the root of one of his lungs.
Mr. Mears is well known in uarre,
where he lived until a few years ago,
when he moved with his parents to Ma
verhill,
The following account of the shooting
appeared in a Boston Sunday newspaper:
"Haverhill. Mav 20. Demetris Seme-
gen, packer in a shoe factory, to-day shot
and fatallv wounded his wife, and then,
Afire
OF H(JSE IN FALL
He Was on the Way to His
Work as Member of
State Road Patrol
Williamstown, May 22. Oliver W,
the Meuse, which were captured by the
f rench yesterday, but were repulsed with
heavy losses.
Capture of Haudremont Quarries.
The official communication issued by
the war office last night was as follows:
"On the left bank of the. Meuse the bat-
Capturing Armentara Ridge and
Occupying Several Villages.
Berlin, via wireless, May 22. Austro-
German troops have carried the peak of
Armentara ridge, the scene of the heav
iest fighting in the recently inaugurated
offensive alontr the southern Tvrol front.
tie continued fiercely all day between the according to an official Austrian report,
Avocouri wood ana me nieune. in me May 21. Over 3,000 Italians were cap
neighborhood of the road from Emes to ttired Saturday and possession of several
xiaiicuuiv an buhck oy uur iruupa villages wa gamed. The Austrians took
mitted us to occupy two German trenches. 23 cannon and eight machine guns. The
A small work which the enemy occupied Austrians extended the scope of their of
n My in, souin oi niu so, was entirely I fenaive. attacking the Italians on the La
shattered by our artillery. fraun .highlands, where they entered the
"Immediately east of hill 304 the en- fir8t iine of the Italian position after
rmy neiivereu aguinsi our positions ""Igevere fighting.
ntwuet alter muiutrnwii ynruv
tratmg our first line trench, was com
pletely driven back.
"On the slopes west of 1 Mort Homme
a violent offensive action carried out by
an enemy brigade was stopped by the fire
of our machine guns and the assaulting
waves were taken under the fire of our
batteries and were obliged to fall back
"On the right bank of the Meuse the
artillery struggle was very violent. In
the sector of Douaumont our troops in a
spirited attack captured the Haudremont
San Antonio. Texan. Mar 22. Some l, ; !,. i I Groton. Mav 22. The auiet of Sunday 0ftr mnnintr ivn miles, fired a bullet
anxiety is felt over the situation of the jtors. Many machine loads of interested afternoon was broken yesterday by the into the body of William Mears of No. Martin, selectman and member of the
: J. ... . e r : 1 1 - 1 I ' .. ..I ma 11 1 . . C ...1 1. n I . . - 1 ... 1 ; 1 - I
nuiriiu.il uinifia suui.ii oi uuiai people came from various parts of the alarm of fire when it was discovered that woaraman sireei, cu i u pairoi, was scnousiy injure'i
though no official reports indicating ho- state, and it is estimated that 3,500 peo- .tnr. nf r-nr. s w-1-.h at the west jalous according to the police. to-day when he was thrown from hi
tile movements of any band near Colonel pie were interested observers of the en- , , .,, fc . . , v "Tll nian and woman were taken to wagon, as his horse ran, and was hurled
Sibley's two troops of cavalry hBve been tertainment proirram. end of the village was on fire. Mr. Welch the Gaje hospital, where Mrs. Semegen acainst the irmnite iinJerninnin;. of a.
received. If it is established that the The corps of cadets, first squadron of and family were away and the fire was was said to be dying. Mears was badly house. The most serious injuries aro to
puiuiito ouiumii is in uangir a. iwtc vi cavalry, received many words of praise first seen by Dr. J. N. Eastman, whose wounaea, me uuw i i-iuKriii)5 nuU.. lne npaa arul neck but tlie outc0m 0f
the sixth cavalry, which has just arrived, from competent judges who did not hesi- house at tiie lower end of Mill street J and passing out through his back. them cannot be ascertained t i-rosent.
will probably be used as reinforcement, tate to favorably compare their work faces that of Mr. Welch on Main street. "The shooting of the woman tooK place jfr- Martin was driving from his homo
witn that of regular troops. The alarm was quickly sounded, but such in ne emcgen nome hi tun to his work on the roads at 7 o clock,
CARRANZA FEELS Governor Gates was met at the train headway had the fire gained that before following a quarrel between husband and and he had not proceeded far when, na it
TTr, . TrJt, Wlln a mounted escort and escorted to a half dozen had reached the scene the wire, cemegen is aiu w u..c ,uu supposed, some part of the harness
MUlitt Kb LlJti. f the home of Colonel Reeves, whose guest flames had broken through the roof. to the attentions which he claimed his gaye way. Either the harness struck the
ne was during his visit to the university. The building was a two and a halt wiie was receiving irum animara heels or the vtgon was ioreed
Think Situation on Mexican Border Lss The mobilization was considered a de- story structure with ell and barn con- he assaulted ior me same nanou wuic onto the horse, which liuninliiitclv sturc-
Acute and Will Tell TJs So Bv served success by those having it in netted. The ground floor wag used for a time ago. ed to run down a slight declivity. Tho
onarge. aiany praciK-ai lessons were general store, witn a store room ior ciuumnnj oi-mrni-,, - runaway was sioppea, alter a snort run,
learnml in connection with loadinw roH r, ,ml 1A in lh -II.. Over the store and tired at his Wire, the ounei, enieniiK Ky ITyle Morse.
Washington, V. t.. May 22. The state 8paoing. running time, etc., saying nothing was a large tenement which Mr. Welch her body in the abdomen. She turned When those who had witnessed the ac-
occupied. 1 ana ran down stairs, anu ur cident went to the assistance of the pros-
From the location of the fire w hen first " " irate man tney tound that he was prob-
seen it is presumed that it started from woman s icit ning, out n '" ably very badly hurt. Dr. A. A. Cross
.... . .. . . . . I .. 1 . - 1. ...... 4UA hnvt A A , 1101111. 1 ! . . . . . . .
ti minor kltr-hpn In th ol . mtftnlltrM llllia lirr Y lliw ure " WB BUIUIllOnea ana Mr. iVIflrMn wa raic.
regard the situation a less critical, lhe tive effort of so many prominent citi- is not definitely known. A large part of bor, on the first floor of the house. J tie en home. Later Dr. Cross found that
department has been advised that a new ahout the more intimate relations esfab-
note from tiarranza about the border sit- ijshed between the business and profes
... i : ...:n k!.. u tr.kitnn . .... ... '
p""""'; nuui(iu sional men and citizen soldiery. It is
to-day or to-morrow. Carranza IS said to also helieved the roncerterl anl r-onpra.
note is tnougnt to tie atout tne uienn Een, jn accomplishing a specific result the stock of good was saved, as was a door was locked in semegen s iace, as ne there was a depressed fracture of the
Springs raid or the fact that more troops wii operate to the great advantage of part of the household goods but much of dashed out of his own home m pursuit. gkuH on the frontal bone, severe injury
have been sent over the line. other pfforts which may later be taken it was considerably damaged by heat "Revolver in hand, Semegen ran two to the ligaments of the neck and multiple
SOME TROOPS WITHDRAWN.
up and which are not necessarily mili
tary.
TOWN WIPED OUT.
American Cavalrymen Now in Camp at
Columbus, N. M.
Columbus, N M., May 22. Eight hun- Tnmartn ITiIIpH an Iniur P.rmla t
dred American cavalrymen have arrived
at the expeditionary base here from
Mexico through a blinding dust storm.
The troops, the first to be withdrawn were killed and 38 injured and Kemp
Kemp City, Oklahoma.
Denison. Tex., May 22. Vine persons
after being taken out. One horse was re- mUes to the Kiverside section or tne cay. contusions about the face and the body.
moved from the barn but two pigs were "pre ne proceeoea aown ioru.uu It i8 to0 early to determine whether
burned. turning in at No. 200, where the Mears there are internal injuries. The patient
Tt, ,.Un,;..l anrr na or, im hitrUOJ. I nome IB IWalru. ItlHIIIU .urI, lli la I. , .UnHIIUtn pmiri t. nn nf
brigade did valiant work, not only for 27 years old, was kneeling on the ground, which he lapsed about two hours after
Mr. Welch but in aving other property, repairing an automobile tire. ithout a the accident. At no time was he ren-
,.; nra;i.,l anA it. I word, Semegen rushed up to him, placed Ae a , nltelv iini-nnsnim, 'Tha nut.
seemed at one time that the village was the muzzle, of his revolver against the come of the injuries k in doubt.
doomed. other s shoulder, and fired. Mr. Martin is one of the most promi-
The houses nf E. T). Rkker. L. S. "une victim iainor, r. vy. Clears, wno nPnt citizens of Williamstown, b.-ing a
F. P. Downs. George Clark, ' rouK. oaier, ana .aieo auen, ' native here and for the greater part of
" ,. . , i. J!i- . - I m.. . . ' . ... ' I t1 ,. 1 V t TW... C'onrnn f art I IS
b nnn inn fimmirpn ni T.n PTrwn i tin Tinif. t iv. iikih.. fMirnr. m ipa pflur ri iiniMf,n jiuniiimiu, . a. vwimv .... ... . ,
week. ago. went into lamn on the mili- was wiped of? the man bv a tornado W. X. ClaVk and F. M. Page caught Are, were talking some J bis lift, resident of the place, having
" ' i ... " . l it. j .. i i t if. t n i un on nparinif iv, bi oi nu uri mwnru i mn. t- x
tary reservation.
TRIBESMEN DEFEAT
BRITISH FORCES
FIRED ON AMERICANS.
which Saturday night swept a path three-
quarters of a mile wide and five miles
long in the Kemp City section.
Unly three email dwellings remain
Soldiers Were Trying to Get Clean at the standing in Kemp City.
Turkish Advice State That Darfur Reb
els in Anglo-Egyptian Soudan Con
quered Troops Sent Against
Them.
Hrlin. 'ia rirffeR Afav 9-1 TVinsfan
quarries wuicn had Deen strongly organ- tinople advices report the defeat of the
izea py tne enemy, we took hu prisoners British forces in a battle with rebellious
and four machine guns. tribesmen in the nrovince. of Darfur in
German aeroplanes earned out since 4ni.Kvntin s.wlun Tt ; -,M 4
yesterday, two bombardments in the re- Rr;ti.h r.nt' i,nnrt. ,uu Pn.
gion of Dunkirk. About 20 shells were ,igh ,n(J Hind troon. t(, Port s.lHan on
i.;ik - . I . . : . ------
"l" " '" iwimiiii itiui uubuiib tfca KoH ana who ,,. Ihnv iHnnAnJ in t.
and wounding 15. To-dav another enemy L..i. i .i.r.'i.j
squadron dropped about 100 bombs in the
outskirts of Dunkirk. Two Soldiers and
a child were killed and 20 persons were
wounded.
"Allied aeroplanes pursued the enemy
machines and succeeded in bringing down
two at the moment they were about to
enter their own lines
"Immediately after the first bombard
ment 53 French, British and Belgian aero
tack and were defeated.
SUBMARINES BUSY IN BALTIC.
Russian Vessels are Destroying German
Shipping.
London, May 22. Russian submarines
continue to haraa German shipping in
the Baltic. The German steamship Worms
I IK hllvp.ri In ho fne latitat vij-tim Tho
planes new over the German cantonments Swedish steamship Rosalind is reported
at Wywege and Ghistelles, on which 250 to haVe struck a mine near Stockholm
sneiis were dropped. Most nit an,i ..,L- ti,.
liomlw on welfort, but the material dam
age was insignificant."
STRENGTHENING BAGDAD.
RUSSIANS JOIN
BRITISH ON TIGRIS
AFTER BOLD RIDE
German and Austrian Troops Being Tak
en There.
London, May 22. "Four thousand Ger
I man troops are expected at Bagdad in
June." says the Times' Bucharest cor
Prospective Junction of the Two Armies respondent. "Twelve thousand Austri
Will Make Serious Outlook for the n -lreMT r "ere. 1 he lurks are
I weakening tne defense ot Constantinople,
sending all possible reinforcements to
London, Mnv 22. A force of Russian Asia M'norand concentrating a large force
ravalry has joined the British army on at Slarash, Uiree days march northeast
the Tigris in Mesopotamia. An official of Alexandrett (on the Mediterranean
communication issued last niirht concern- in northern Syria) where they fear on
ing the situation along the Tigris fol- attempted landing by entente allies.'
lows :
"Genera! Lake reports that on the 10th
the enemy vacated the Brthacassa ad
vanced position on the right bank of the then Georges Boillot Died with Bullet
Tigris. General Gorringe following up u...
the enemy attacked and carried the Du- "
ailam redoubt. The enemy is still hold- Paris May 22. Georges Boillot, auto
ing the Sannavvat position on the left I mobile racer and aeronaut, has been
bank of the river. killed in a fight with tive German aero
'A force of Russian cavalry has joined planes. He succeeded in bringing down
General Gorringe after a bold and adven- ne of the German machines before a
turous ride." bullet pierced bis heart.
The first news of the operations on the M. Boillot served earlier in the war as
Tigris nine the fall of Kut-KI-Ainara chauffeur for tneral Joffre. He won the
cnt yesterday bv Lieut, lien. Sir Percy Iprand prize of the Automobile club of
FOUGHT FIVE AEROPLANES.
Time.
Marathon, Tex., May 22. It is report
ed that. Mexican snipers fired on two
American soldiers bathing in the Rio
Grande, near Deemera ford, but mwsed
them. i
Twelve business houses, a two-story
hotel and 60 residences were demolished
in Kemp City.. - This is the second time
in rucent years that the little town of
300 inhabitants has been visited by. a
tornado. Merchants aid that the town
probably would not be rebuilt.
across the river. The buildings of Mrs
A. M. Heath on the west side were saved
only by the greatest effort, as they were
w-ithin 30 feet of the burning building
The household goods were all removed
from this house, the windows broken and
the entire front badly seared.
Mr. Welch came to Groton from Tlain
field and purchased the store of S. P.
Welch Sept. I of last year and was con
ducting a prosperous business.
Semegen. Patrolman Dennis Kelleber ar
rived within a short time and took Seme
gen to the police station, where he was
locked up.
Ho
haa a wife and he is the brother of Judge
Frank J. Martin of Washington county;
probate court".
WOMAN PUT UP FIGHT.
TELEPHONE MEN AT BANQUET.
When Captured After Flight from House Covers Were Laid for 12S at Rutland
of Correction. I Saturday Evening.
Rutland, May 22. Two women prison- Rutland. Mav 22 Govern weiw'taM fne
His loss erg ,t the house of correction gave the h25 at the annual meeting and banquet
10-YEAR TERM
METHODISTS IN STERN BATTLE
Official Confirmation Made To-day of Re
, ported Sentence of the American
Charged with Complicity in
Irish Revolt.
Eight, were killed in the town while the partia,1Jr covered by insurance, but he alarm of the escape of a third woman Lf the Telephone society held Saturday
. . . .... I : - . . - i : i . J .. i ... a .. I. . 1. . .1 I . i i .i I .... . - .
a unuei-iiiru aw ('irsvui nr ,n i prisoner jeuieruay muiiiizig auu mi-u " I evening at the Hotel Berwick. Men
sisted the officers of the institution in prominent in the telephone business from
recapturing jum ioie wmwiii, all over the state were in attendance and
whom the prison officials have had con- there were informal Rnernhna hv rlistri. fi
siderable trouble. Miss Goldstein did not heads of the department including J. V.
submit to being retaken without a fight Hall) w T Durfee and S. F. Parker, all
of this city; also by officers of the chap
ter including the retiring president, J.
other vjctim, a child, was killed in the
lo rtui nf Wb fattior'ft lutmn i,it aiirnu
r Utt J rttH I U 1 1 the Red river in Texan.
The dead:
Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Cox.
Dr. and Mrs. William P.rinson.
Ciianey Battle, cashier of the Bank of
Kansas.
M. K. Thomas, postmaster.
Artile Pleasant.
Mrs. M. J. Hively.
Six-year-old daughter of Dr. J. J, Mc
On
Proposal to Eliminate
Amusement" Clause.
"Worldly
London, May 22. Official confirmation
was obtained to-day of the reported sen
tenee of 10 vears in nrisoh trivpn Jere
miah C. Lvneh. the American rharped Cullougl
with participating in the Irish rebellion. of tlie 38 persons injured, 36 are resi
Lvneh was orurinallv sentenced to dents of Kemp City. Most of thoBe in
and Superintendent M. H. Loukes and
Saratoga Springs. X. Y.. Mav 22. The Assistant Superintendent P. G. hit
so-called "worldly amusements" and their comb were forced to lift her bodily into
relation to members of the Methodist a wagon. She will be punished for her
Episcopal church probably will overshad- attempt at escape
ow in importance the majority ot tne un pleasant cunuays vue wvmtw m-
nronosals to be nreaented to the general mates are allowed to sit on the lawn out
conference during the fourth week of the side their quarters following ohapel and
oiiailrennml wision. winch hepan to-dav. also in the afternoon in the summer.
i i . . .
death but the British authoritiea com- Jured were caught in the collapse of iwonennite propositions win rje lusmn- leswrtmj muinii.B wu
muted the sentence to imprisonment aft- buildings while trying to reach storm ted. One from the majority of the com- following the usual morning services the
H. Gowdev of Montpelier, the new pres
ident, B. W. Reynolds of Burlington, and
Esme A. C. Smith, secretary and treas
urer and men in charge of the local ar
rangements for the meeting and spread.'
The dining room of the hotel was gay
with apple blossoms and ferns and hero
and there a palm was effectively placed.
The officers table was on a raised plat-
state department at Washington that the":-;' P- m
convicted man be not executed.
VERMONTER TOO PEREMPTORY,
Demanded
". .. . -1 r . . I -.. .... ... ". , t.-i.l: 1 !,- V..,l I . ... .. '
er a consideration of reauesU from the cellars shortly after the storm broke at miuee on tne siate or tne cnurcn, wnicn prisoners ere uiiu, wi?t ...., u(.u fnrm atul extended across the south end
-l l rx ..- t- ...j I u. :.. .f l, nA,A- .... f.,- .Mif 10 ininii.A- ATina r.nhl.1 . n- ,.. ..i . , , ..
-i p. m., r-aturuav. in.wis uk irirnnin ui (Ficn. ni, ,, v.- r.. 0 lne r00ni. iweive places were laiu no
.-. . . I...... . . . . . I. - . : 1 f i i I .
The Ixxlies of the dead in several in- hibition against card playing, dancing stein, wionout any warning, mi. m that (gble- Music was furnuhed bv Mor
. . . . . I , ., , , ., e .i l i . J ...:!.... . . .. ...,,;.! I ...
stances were found hundreds of yards ana ineatre going ana anotner irom tne on a dpjicu ana mmum, u" ris' orchestra.
from where their houses had stood. minority of the same committee, which wraps started lor the edge ot tne uiu The meeting was called at 6:30 o'clock
Th twn.vi.ar-.lH rliilH nf Dr. and Mr,. I will ask that the paragraph be eliminat- leading to State street. The two women L.j a n m Bn ii.nonr hannnni
Brinson, wlio were killed, was hurled eu, ana that tne position or tne cnurcn prisoners runnea w imb uium uu served. There was favors for all pres
500 feet with flving debris, but the child as opposed to these amusements be made the alarm, and then directed tlie oltacrs nt anj nmnv interesting stunts fur
clear by otner means. , in tne airecuon ur oy wi '" n,8hed amusement for the guests. In this
ine rules oi tne cnurcn now provme .-ne was nnany cainurea nmr wi 0f amusement a selection of car
expulsion as a penalty for members who of State and Baxter streets. toons on the various employes about tho
engage in iricse inversions, it is claimed ne nas given me oincers mwc ui " utate waa whown on a machine in the
that this is not enforced by any pastor, trouble for some time frequently, reins- downstairs parlors of the hotel.
though previous attempts to effect a ing to obey orders wit nout some persua- The nartv included sub-leased and in-
change have always failed. sion and she seems to be in an unruly dependent company managers and New
Although the election of bishop has mood all the time. . Enc-land manacers. Some present were.
, . ,. ! : , i: . I .. ii.:. : t . Ort ...... nl.llrT . ....
oecn ciiupieiea. missionary insuops iori .vuss iiomsieui is uui -n jmi" i (j jj Pratt of Greenfield Ma?9.. reve
Alrica and .Malavsia are to be chosen, and was sentenced to tne staie inatiiu-
unless the conference reverses it pre-1 tion from Burlington for from 10 to 14
Admittance or He Would
Shoot Landlady.
Manchester, X. H., May 22. Pounding
on his landlady's door at R33 Elm street Lrpa4 ;... hp in-ulrPlt i .inrk
and threatening "to llow out theirL... ith min f.lli,.,, in l,,rrnn.
nrains it tney aid not open tne aoor,
suffered only minor injuries.
After the storm passed
emergency
Joseph E. Flynn of Island Pond, Vt
created a sensation late Saturday night
among inmates of the lodging house at
that address.
The exhibition ended when Officer Jese
E. Watts rounded up Flynn, took a fully
loaded 38 Colt revolver from him and
landed him at the police station, where h
s charged with carrying a loaded weap
on.
It appears that Flvnn came to MAn
hester Saturday and secured a room at
633 Elm street. He was seen to go out
about 10 o'clock. The next that was
heard of him was a loud knocking at the
door, accompanied by the threat to shoot
f the doors were not opened in two mm
utes.
The landlady looked just long enough
to learn who was making the disturb'
anceand then securely fastened the door
Afrs. Margaret Kennev then went out an
other way and notified Officer Watts. Re
turning with her the policeman found
Flynn had ceased his efforts and had dis
appeared. Later, however, he found
Flvnn, wrested the revolver from him
and took him to the station.
CHILD MURDER CHARGED.
ljVf. commander of the British forces
in Meitop-ftamia, although it shows that
the Turks are still holding the Sannay
yat position on the left bank of the Ti
gris, where the British check made it im
ixmsible to rarry out the relief of ien.
Townshend, brings the astonishing intel
ligence that a !adv of Russian cavalry
has succeeded in joining Gen. Gorringe 's
forces.
How this important junction wa ef
fected it still unknown and the story
will be awaited with intense interest.
The supposition is that this detachment
came from the Russian army which ia
threatening Khanikan, but it still re
mains a puzl where and how the Rus
sian surweded in erasing tb river.
Their Midden appearance with General
liorringe haa alo raised the qinvtioa
whether the Ruosians hive already cut
the Bagdad railway at MnsuL
France in 1912 and 1913.
GERMAN SHIPS SUNK.
ESCAPED IN COFFINS.
Allies' Re-Opened Campaign in the Baltic
Gets Results.
Stockholm, via London. May 22. The
German steamers Hebe and Pera, carry
ing coal were sunk Saturday night by
a submarine off the southern coast of
Cape CMand, in the Baltic-
Available shipping records do not eon
tain the names i-f the German steamers
Hebe and Pera.
TO SEND STRONGER N0IE.
Dutch Government to Make Farther Rep
resentations t Germany.
London. Mar 22. The hitch rmrTn-
mr.t has d-ided U w nd a troig n: to
Berlin, aaymg that the German verkin
ff the tnrprdiing f the PutWi cteamer
Tuhaetia -anm be aoorpted and h.U:ne
(crmany rerti.Me for it srs a di-
Nureber ef Sinn Feiners Managed ts Get
Oat af Dublin.
Lb, May CI In the fir.t eacite- r-auh y the Iai'T Mail frrra Kotterdam. rent of bi own Unrisre.
ROOSEVELT HEADQUARTERS.
.
Opened in New York Cit to Work for
His Nomination.
New York, May 22. A committee of
Republicans headed by George Yon L.
Meyer has opened headquarters here, it
was announced last night, to conduct a
campaign for the nomination of Theodore
Roowelt for president.
"The committee will be enlarged and
will extend ita activities to every state in
order to bring together all element in
the party for united action, savs a
statement issued bv the committee.
A NEW PROTEST
Is Being Prepared to Send to Great Brit
ain. Washington. P. C May 22. A new
note to Great Britain making further
protest against interference with the
American mails was laid before the pre,
idmt to day and will probably be ant tn
London tomorrow. The general terms of
the not vn framed at tW state de
partment, but the president is imlu-isng
Helen Godleski of Rutland Is Held for
County Court
Rutland, May 22. Charged with child
murder, Helen Godleski, a Polish woman
boarding with Florence liailey on Grant
avenue, was arrested Saturday afternoon
at 6 o'clock bv Deputy Sheriff D. A.
liarker, assisted by .lames Pitaniello and
State's Attorney C. V . Poulm
According to evidence in the hands of
the states attorney, the Godlewki woman
gave birth to a prematurely born child
May 8, which, however, was living and
sufficiently developed to bring the crime
of killing the infant within the realm of
the law. This, the stte will charge, was
killed by the mother in a cruel and re
volt ing manner.
The charge is infanticide, equivalent to
murder, and the Godleski woman will be
placed on trial for her life when the case
comes before county court. The guilt or
nnocence of the accused will be deter
mined bv the trial, but the circumstances
which led to her arrest were worked up
bv Mr. Piranidlo.
According to the statements of the lat
ter, the woman as the victim of a crim
inal operation, neriormeo: nv some person
or persona outside the jurisdiction of the
state, and that upon the birth of the
child, the mother herself killed the babv
bv depositing it in a toilet so that it was
carried down the sewer and drowned.
The accused formerly lived in Wet
Rutland, hut moved into the city r-ent-
ly, where she has been biarding.
"FIGHTING PARSON" DEAD.
Rev. Edward Anderson Was Associated
with John Brown,
Ouincv. Mim, May 22. Rev. Edward
Andtroon. known in irand Army of tne
Republic circles as "The Fighting Par-
vious decision not to send general super
intendents to these fields.
Former President William H. Taft will
address the conference on Wednesday
night on the subject of "Our World Re
lations." William J. Bryan, former sec
retary of state, will speak at the tem
perance anniversary.
The probable date of final adjournment
is being discussed by the delegates, of
whom many believe all the remaining
business will be finished by the end of
the week.
A proposal to transfer headquarters of
the temperance society from lopeka
Kan., to Washington. D. C, will be of
fered this week, it was announced. The
committee which favors this action as
serf that "The battlefield of prohibition
during the next qiiadrennium is to be on
the Atlantic const, and the tight will ccn
ter at Washington, I). C. Kansas needs
the society the least of any state in the
union because the most of the West has
already gone dry."
The question of the birthplace of
American Methodism which has been un
der discussion for several years probably
will be definitely settled within the next
four years by a tribunal to be appointed
for this purpose, if the conference adopts
a report from the committee on priority.
Baltimore. Md., and New York City each
claim the first Methodist service in
America.
months for street-walking, having been
arrested the first of the year.
INFANT'S BODY IN SACK.
FOUR KILLED; FOUR SCRATCHED.
Taken Out of Millpond at Middlebury
Autopsy Performed.
Middlebury, May 22 The body of a
fully developed female infant was found
in a bran sack, in the water at the Green
Mountain Pulp company's mill here yes
terday by Clarence Taylor, foreman, and
George Sears, a mill hand. State s At
torney Allen R. Sturtevant was notified
and aecompinied by leputy Sheriff No
ble J. Sanford and Dr. Stanton S. Eddy,
took charge of the case. The body was
taken to the undertaking establishment
of A. J. Blackmer, and later to Burling
ton, where an autopsy will be performed
by tlie state laboratory. It is thought
that the body had been in the water two
or three days, but decomposition had not
set in. The body was garbed only in a
red dress.
nue account; W . A. Parker of Spring
field, Mass., cable superintendent, and
Frank Feathers of Keene, N. H., one of
the managers.
Officers elected for the ensuing year
were: ('resident H. V . Reynolds ot Bur-
ington; vice president. C. A. Brown of
Newport; secretary and treasurer, E. A.
C. Smith of Rutland; executive, commit
tee. H. C. Shaw of Brattleboro. George F.
Parker of Rutland and L. A. Watson of
St. Johnsbury.
DEATH OF F. W. HASKETT.
He Had Been a Resident of Barre About
25 Years.
TO RE-OPEN STRAFFORD MINES.
son. died lat mgii ai iiie ace ol t2
year. H" was an assor;j.t of John
firms n. and at the ombrewak of the ( i,l
ar enl sted as a private, rising to the
rank of cr,...m-l. I-atT b hi t i.kt of
riir-h in Jamt.'X. Y. In 17
b was chaplain in - hit f of tSe G. A. fi
nd iwll simi.ar r-iton in the 1tsI
Legion of New V'k-
When Train Wrecked Automobile Near
Newcoroitertown Ohio.
Ne oomstertown. . May 22. Four
persons were killed yesterday when a
pacnger train wre-ked an automobile
driven by Frank Wilson at a ning
two miles west of here. The dead:
Mrs. il-m. wife of the driver.
Pauline Wi'i. a daughter.
Mrs. F- E. Purdy and her daughter.
Loraine Tiirdy.
Wilson was thron 4 teet and serious
ly Injured. Four others in the machine exr"'d that work at the roim-i w. l
c rajl with raUli'. r ti-a miMie of lh wek-
New York Capital to Dig Copper Out of
Vermont Hills.
White River Junction, May 22. News
has been received from New ork City
to the effort that work will be resumed
in the copper mine at Strafford and
owned by the Vermont Copper company.
The mines have been idle for some four
rears and likewise the power plant in the
town of Sharon.
The Vermont Copper company is
financed and controlled by New York
Citv capital and tlie ame interests also
own and control the Sliaron dam and
elor-trn- power plant. The mines are
eiht miles to the north of Sharon. If.
M- Sumner of haron is the eni-ineer in
iharge of both mines and power p'ant
and already he is active in gctsrg a
force of 40 men t"g'ther at the nun's.
The ebitric f-r plant at hr,n is l t
r-lv in r.d.ti'-,n t- start, and it is.
Fred W. Haskett passed away at his
home. 32 Johnson street, this morning
after a long illness. Mr. Ila.-kctt, a gran
itecutter by trade, was stricken in March
1!)14, and while he had alternating pe
riods of improvement and depression, his
condition from the outset was considered
serious. He is survived by his wife and
one son, Perley Haskett. of this city.
There are also left two sisters. Mrs.
John Turner of Barre and Mrs. G-orgi
Harvey of Thetford. and four brothers,
Thomas Haskett of Colorado, Stanley
Hatkett. who lives in Colorado, and Al
bert and Henry Haskett of Norwich.
Mr. Haskett was liorn in Inverness. P.
Q.. July 14, ISfiO. and came to Barre 25
vers ago. His marriage to Miss Jennio
Turner took place in Montpelier Dec. 24,
ISP4. The deceased m a mmler of thn
granitecutters' union and adherent of th
Kpiscopal church. Funeral arrangements
are not completed. It is a request of tb
family thst flowers be omitted.
TO TAKE LINCOLN BACK.
To Answer to Charge of Forgery in jo
English Court.
Ne York. May 22. The chief m-pec-
tor of S-otl.inl lard. Alfred Ward, ar
rived to-day to take bai k Ignatius T. T.
Lincoln, t'e self -con tesrd l.erman spy
and a former meinb-r of tV British
Parliament, to anT t a forj- tj
t'i' ' ' . .
