:R
'
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
..
full leased
wire dispatches
pptrp Twn rKNTq ON trains and new
SALEM, OREGON, MONDAY, MAY 22, 1916
TIIIRTY-NINTH YEAR
(1 ff? f
GREAT BATTLE R
Ml ITALIAN F
1
BBJAND'S PEACE TtKMS
:
King Victor Ej- iuel Orders Austrians Driven Off Italian
Soil At A J Cost Austrians Take 16,000 Prisoners In
first Week of BattleItalians Hammer Vainly at Aus
trian Defenses Fighting Is Desperate Around Verdun,
with French Making Slight Gains
Vienna, May 22. Massing heavy forces on the south
ern Tyrol front, Italians today are making desperate but
unsuccessful efforts to stem the Austrian invasion.
Commanders ordered repeated assaults of Italian Al
pine forces on the Teuton lines. Every onslaught was re
, pulsed. According to official announcements, the Aus-
trians claim capture of several more Italian positions and
3,000 prisoners.
Reviewing the first week of the battle, the war office
declared that a total of 16,000 Italians had been made
prisoner. Considerable terraine has been seized.
Fighting desperately under direct orders from King
Victor Emmanuel, the Italians are bringing every avail
able man and gun into action in the bloody Astico valley
in efforts to oust the Austrians, who there gained their
first foothold on the enemy's soil. It is believed that the
king, now at the front, ordered that Austrian invaders be
expelled at any cost.
"The fiditine in southern Tyrol is increasing in vio
lence," said the communique. "We (Austrians) hold the
summit of Armentara ridee. Troops of the crown prince
fflntnred Cima Del Laehi and Cima Di Nezole. The
enemy was driven south from Borgola Pass."
Tarn, May 22. French counter nt- French air raids Saturday night, and
tucks have driven Germans from strong early Sunday a French flying fleet
..... . ., ,f shelled railway stations at Metz. Avo-
positions on both mites or the Meuse emrt al)d Boyp nni, mnnjtiollg aepot9
in a heavy renewal of tho battle at and cnmps at Biaches, Chapellot and
Verdun, according to official announce- Jimietz. Two Fftnuli dirigibles t-
ments today. The Germans charged tackedVnilrond stations and tracks at
again and again in desperate effort Brioulles-Dunn.
to regain the lost territory, hut every . Britisi Lose TrenChe3.
assault was defeated. Berlin, May 22. Several lines of Bii-
The heaviest of fighting continued tisit portions on a front of one and a
thro"ghout Sunday, marking the be- third miles southwest of Givenehy and
pinning of the fourth month of Verdun extending to Engohellc h vc been cap-
t i w . ij tared by tho Germans, it was officially
the world's greatest battle. W est of '
Dead -Man's hill, ul ready littered with
Faris, 'May 22, "Peace will
not come except through a de
cisive victory,-" Premier Bri
and today toid the Kussiau du
ma. delegation.
"The allies car regard tho
future with confidence," de
clared Briand.-' ' Peace must not
result from diplomatic intrigue,
but it can come oi.'.y through
a decisive allied victory which
can and will restore recogni
tion of international law as a
right."
ORPET TO TAKE STAND
Close Friend of Dead Girl Says
She Never Contemplated
Suicide
BURNS
DETECTIVE
TELLS OF ALLEGED
1AI1 W PLOTS
Donald Meserve Connects
Caplan with Times Ex-.
plosion at Los Angeles
KING MAY INITIATE
MOVEMENT FOB PEACE
London, Miy 22. King Al
fonso of Spain is likely to initi
ate peace negotiation, Madrid
newspapers said today, accord
ing to the Exchange Telegraph.
Ho will first sound out the
peace sentiment in each bellig
erent country and if results
are satisfactory the king will
send two Spanish statesmen to
eAeh of tho warring capitals to
work out plans for a truce,
SAYS CAPLAN PLANNED
MURDER OF McKINLEY
Also That His Gang Planned
Murder of Rockefeller
Other Crimes Told
Waukcenn. 111.. May 22. Marian
Lambert had no thought of suicide
when she went to the woods to meet
William Orpet, charged with her mur
der, according to the assertion today
of Alias Joshcphine Davis, closest friend
of the dead girl. Miss Davis will be a
witness for tho prosecution in its at
tempt to prove that Orpet, a college
boy, forced Marian to Bwallow deadly
poison so he could be free to marry
another.
"Marian knew that worries over her
physical condition were ended," said
Miss Davis. "She realized that her
love for Orpet had grown cold. She
was not even jealous when his engage
ment to Celesto Youkcr was an
nounced." Young Orpet 's counsel, it was report
ed today, have definitely determined
tlmt l,n ulnill tnlte tlie stand in his own
defense. He was the sole witness t5V
Marian Lambert's death. Ho far, he
has made one statement concerning it,
declaring the girl lay dying when he re
turned to ner atier tnoir last try-si u
Helms woods. Tho defense will produce
witnesses, teachers, tit the Lake Forest
high school, to show that Marian took
an unusual interest, in a chemistry lec
ture on cyanide poison a few days be
fore her death. She was then plotting
suicide, they will contend.
Seattle, Wash., May 22. In a state
ment issued boro b) Donald Voe
Meserve, employed by the Burns Detec
tive Agency and in important witness
in the David Caplan and Matthew
Schmidt trials at Los Angeles in con
nection with the Times explosion,' new
and startling disclosures of alleged an
archist plots wero made today.
These included a plot to kill John D.
Rockefeller by dropping a bomb from
an aeroplane on ' his house at Tarry-
town and another to blow up tho Tombs
prison at New York. He also gave new
light on the Czolgoz assassination of
President McKinley, and asserted that
it was the same anarchist group which
placed the bomb Ithnt caused $200,000
damago to the St. Patricks cathedral in
Now xork in 1!H4, and anotner oomn
which wrecked the Bronx court house.
Meserve iB the Bon of Gertrude Vose,
for many years a close friend of Em
ma Goldman, the noted anarchist lead
er. He is 2(j years old, and tor lu
IN ARREST OF RAIDERS
United States Grand Jury In
dicts 13 Who Dispossessed
Mrs. Ross
BE
Man Answering Ristman s
Description Held hy Offi
cers at Estacada
corpses, tho Germans time niter time
tried to widen their gains made in Sat
urday's fighting. Each assault was met
by a curtain of firo which threw back
the grey ranks and the French, seizing the quarry.
announced.
"On tho right bank of the Mouse
French unsuccessfully attacked lines in
the district of the quarry south of
Hnudromont and the summit of Vaux,"
snid tho statement. "In their third
attack tho enemy gained a footing in
the opportunity for counter attacks,
plunged into tho confused Teutou
Masses and regained part of the ground
lost Saturday. On the Meuse east bank
tho French captured a trench adjoin
ing the shattered ruins o'f Vaux village.
During the night the Germans made a
"During the night, artillery was very
active on both sides along the entire
sector. Our airmen repeatedly attack
ed with evident success upon Dunkirk.
An enemy biplane fell into the sea.
"Lieutenant Boelke shot down his
seventeenth and eighteenth enemy
ulnnes and was made a captain. On
moonlight attack on Houdermont qunr- gMl ,fn)llt aa& in thc Balkans there
ries out met Willi disaster, meir cui- i i n ., ci,nnLT(,
vmns being blown to bits by a con
centrated French fire. Tho quarries
were taken by the French Sunday.
Germans rolled dense londs of pois
' on gas toward French lines in the
('linnipngne, then charged with ony
onets, snid the communique. As the
lielmeted lines came on a sudden shift
in the wind sent tho denillv vapors
Austrians Loss 43,000
Home, Mav 22. Anstriuns lost 20,
000 men killed, wounded and missing
during the first three days of their of
fensive in the Tyrol, Heme dispatches
declared todav. Thev also said that
Austrian casualties during the past four
Girl Believes In Him.
Maywood, III., May 22. Celeste
Yonker. who was engaged to William
Orpet, believes him innocent of the
murder of Marian Lambert, his former
sweetheart, and will so testify at the
trial, she declared today.
'In her first interview she denied be
inc cncmired to Orpet, but asserted
she had faith in him. "Whatever else
he has done I know he didn't kill Ma
rian. I would stake my lifo on that."
"Ho was the kindest boy I over
knew, He could not bnr to see or in
flict pain. Ho was a nice, clean, gen
tlemanly fellow, a trifle bashful. I had
never heard of Marian until I rend of
her death."
Tacoma, Wash., May 22. Warrants
have been issued for four Pacific coun
ty men; in addition to the nine already
tanen into custody for alleged connec
tion with the famous "night rider"
case, according to -the sheriff's offieo
here today. They aro: Joe Axford, E.
K. Burke, W. H. Hurke and Virgil Do
Inn. They aro reported to have left
tho district.
Tho nine ranchers already under ar
rest aro Homer F. Blaine, Trenton W.
Twidwell, John N. Howard, Ralph N.
Howard, Claudo Vanderpool, Mike Han
rahnn. Enoch H. Dillard, James C. Sim
mons, Deputy Sheriff of Pacific county
and Earl Timmons.
All 13 men had previously been freed
in Pacific county of "night rider"
charges Drought by Mrs. Mnrgarot
Boss. They aro now charged, on fed
eral grand jury indictments with inter
ferine with settlers on federal lands.
Tho affair practically reached tho
feud stage nearly a year ago. Mrs. Ross
and her two sons hnd settled on what
thrrvl I'liievcd to be nn abandoned
claim. There was nn nttcmpt to eject
years lived at the Homo Colony, the i tbem and neighborhood quarrels ensued
whirling back upon the Teutons. They un.v wcre eveu equiiny neay. xio
were overyhelmed and the assault de- P'als1 Tront, ?, "owd'd with
feated.
wounded. Barracks in the smaller towns
Aviators on both sides were reported nv open couverteojnro .nuriim. u-s.
increasingly active. Three German aero- , , ... .
t.lnues which engaged in sky duels with Russians Join British.
I'reuch flyers were wrecked. In tho Loudon, ,ay 22. For the first time
VVrdun region well directed French since tho war began British and Kus-
fire punctured six German captive bnl- sinn land forces' aro today fighting
loons containing observers, and they shoulder to .shoulder in j.Iesopotnmia.
fall. Military critics warned thf public
German aviators swooped down upon against undue optimism regarding this
fiunkirk this morning, showering bombs speedily executed joining of British
into tho streets. There were several and Russian troops. They Raid it was
' highly improbable that the Russian
TODAY'S BALL SCORES:
American.
R. II. K.
Detroit 1 i 0
Buxton 2 H 0
Diuiss and Stnnage; Gregg and Car
digan. Foster replaced Gregg.
R.
E,
ir.
Cleveland . ...i H 12 1
Philadelphia 10 14 0
Ooumbo, Bagley and O'Neill; Meyers
and Schang.
R.
K
ABE MARTIN
At Inst it's warm enough fer th' girls
t' de; r ther furs. Th ' time t' ecuiiom
i. is wlieu you've got th' coin.
main bodv would be able to effect a
juncture with the British for weeks in
sufficient strength to hurl an attack
on Bagdad.
The Slavs will probably move upon
Bagdad from the north.
Battle on the Baltic.
Copenhagen, May 22. Violent can
nonading litis been heard in the Baltic
sea off thc JSwcdish coast, according to
Stockholm reports. The belief is ex
pressed that Russian nnd German fleets
are engaged.
Italians Defeat Serious.
Vienna, May 22. "Thc Italian de
feat on the south Tyrol front is steadily
growing more serious," it was an
nounced today. "The attack of our
corps on Tavaronc platenu was highlv
successful. The enemy was driven off
from th whole position."
Trench Make Gains.
Berlin, May 22. French troops gain
ed a foothold in a qnarrv south of
Hnudremdnt, euft of the river Meuse.
following three attneks in force, it was
officially admitted today.
Itallin Liner Sunk.
Riuiie, May 22. The Italian liuer
Standrea has Wen sunk bv an Austrian
submarine, it was stated today.
H.
St. Louis Ml! 1
New York 5 11 4
Plank and Hartley; Keating, Fisher
and Walters. Markle replaced Fisher.
Groom replaced Plank.
E.
National.
R. R
Philadelphia 5 7 3
Chicago i ' z
Alexander ami Killifer; Hendrix and
Fisher. Beaton replaced Hendrix.
New
rain.
York-Cincinnati, postponed,
Brooklyn-Fittsburg, postponed;
grounds.
wet
PAULINE BREAKS RECORD
Cleveland, Ohio, May 22.
Jolie Topsy Pauline De Kol, a
four-year-old Holstein cow, has1
just set a new world's milk pro
duction record for one year.
Topsy produced 2S,4i(i pounds
of milk the last year, or .1,301
gallons. She beat the previous
world's record by 1,'il" pounds
The cow is owned by the city,
and her milk, produced at the
WarrensviUe corre-.tion furms,
goes to workhouse prisoners.
anarchist scttlonteiii near Tacoma. It
was this association that naturally won
him the confidence of the anarchist
loaders throughout the country and
made it possible for him to learn some
of their important secrets.
In 1913, he declares, ho offered his
services to thc Burns detectives to find
Caplan and Schmidt and succeeded.
Bomb Exploded Too Soon.
The Rockefeller bomb exploded, he
said, while the plotters were testing it
in their room in New Lork. The nnmes
of the bomb makers, according to Mes
erve were nnmcd Carmon and Hanson
and Berg. All three were killed when
the bomb went off and wrecked the
house.
The bomb which was to have wreck
ed tho Tombs was discovered before it
went off.
Meserve hnd met both Caplan and
Schmidt becoming an operative. He
met Cnplnn in San Francisco, he do
clared, the day before the Times was
blown up, nnd Caplan told him he wns
going to L.OS Angeies. ine ncxi "ay,
October 1, 1910, the Los Angeles Times
wns blown up.
"From thnt day until September.
1913," said Meserve, "I tried to find
Caplan on my own account. I finally
decided I could do nothing without
backing, and so offered my services to
Burns."
He soon located Caplan at Rolling
Bay, Wash., and it was there thnt Cap
lan, he says, revealed to him the al
leged anarchist plot to kill President
McKinley. Together with Czolgoz, who
fired the fatal shot, a woman nnd an
other man planned tho assnssination,
Meserve declared,
Czolgoz Changed Plan.
"Caplan told mo Czolgoz did not do
tho job as thoy hail planned," said
Meserve. "They had arranged it so
Czolgoz could escape. Caplan said he
had a closed carriage and was waiting
for Czolgoz to take him out of Buffalo.
He was still waiting, he Buid, when he
heard peoplo shouting the president was
shot and the assailant captured. Cap
lan thought that at the last minnte
Czolgoz changed tho plan so it would
look as if he alono were responsible."
t David Caplan as well as Emma Gold
man, nnd another man, were arrested on
suspicion immediately after tho shoot
ing of McKinley, but were released
for lack of evidence.
Meserve says the p'an to drop a
bomb from an aeroplane at the Racke
feller home was decided upon because
there was a high wall around thc
Rockefeller estate.
In his guise as an anarchist, Meserve
himself was sent on a reconnoitcrlng
expedition to the Rockefeller estate a
week before the bomb was to have beea
fired.
American Got 10 Years
For Part In Rebellion
London, May 22. Jeremiah Lynch,
tW" American rebel sentenced to 10
years for participating in the Irish re
volt, was seen in Liberty hall, rebellion
headquarters, during the fighting,
until finally one dark night- n mob of
horsemen appeared at the Ross cabin'
and forcibly carried them awny. Dur
ing this wild ride through the forest.
Mrs. Ross ,nll(!gcd she was iroughliy
handled nnd sustained injuries. The
Ross boys returned to the section and
many fights followed, which ended
with tho two being sent to jail.
Mrs. Ross then appenled to Governor
Lister, who ordered nn Investigation.
This investigation, Mrs. Ross declured,
was a farco nnd sho then lnid her case
before the federal grand jury here,
which returned indictments against 13
of the alleged night riders.
Pendleton Girl
Portland Rose Queen
Portland. Ore., May 22. Miss Muriel
Saling, o'f Pendleton, is to be queen
of the Iise Fcstivul, having received
nenrlv seven and a half million votes,
which wero more than douhlo thoso of
her nearest competitor. The vote is:
Muriel Saling, 7,483,0211; Lillian Hen-
drickson, Portlnnd, 7,4N,l,io; cicanor
Jackson, McMinnville, 2,325,5!5;i Rose
Uptegrove, Oregon City, 2,115,135; Mrs.
Maud Oilman, G. A. K., Portland, 1,-
971,107; Edel Fraasch, Lugcno, l.W-V
292; Mildred Pegg, Vancouver, i,cju,
410; Waive Jacobs, Klamath Falls, 1,
41fi,923; Louise Taylor, Portland, 1,
055,307; Jewell Carroll, Portlnnd, 1,
010,501. All the other candidates will
be maids to tho queen and each of the
outside towns will receivo floats.
Portland, Ore., May 22. A man
closely answering the description of
Fred Ristman, the missing jitneur in
the Jennings murder mystery, is in jail
at Estacada awaiting the arrival of of
ficers from Portland to establish his
identity. He acts as though he is
stunned, talks in monosyllables and ap
parently docs not even know his own
name. Estacada is 30 miles from the
scene of the murder, which was com
mitted Monday night, May 15. Rist
man wns thought to have been murdor
cd by the man who crushed Mrs. Hel
en Jennings' skull. His automobile
was blood stained, his hat was found
by the rondsido, and there was every
indication that he had been killed.
A telephone report from Estacada
said tho man held in jail was ovidently
Frnch. Ristman was commonly called
"Frenchy." Ho wore a bluo shirt sim
ilar to tho ono Mrs. RiBtmnn said her
h.isbnnd wore the nieht ho disappeared.
He apparently assented when asked if
ho did not drive an automobile in
Portland. Asked if his name was Rist
man. ho nuzzled a long time, but said
he couldn't remember. He had a week's
growth of beard on his. face, and a hat
two sizes too large tor mm.
Tho man was found by two young
men at G o'clock this morning. Ho had
two freshly killed chickens in a bag
and was helping himself to tho contents
of their flour bin.
THE ROOSEVELT VIEW
Chicago, May 22. "Republicans
have ono week in which to nominate
Thoodoro Roosevelt and four years in
which to regret not having done so,
said O. K. Davis, secretary of the pro
cressivo organization, in a stnteniont
issued today.
Chairman Hilles of tho republican na
tional committee is en routo to Chi
caoo. Secretary Reynolds of the re
publicans assorted today that thore
would be a double roprosentntion from
Texas districts, except in two cases
which are to be contested.
Frank Hitchcock, a Hughes support-
or, is due tonight. It is expected thnt
his arrival will boom the justieo's stock
Inhabitants Fleeing North la
Wake of Pershing's Army
Fearing Villa
is
Corey Claims Election As Pub
lie Service Commissioner
Returns Not All In
Portland, Or., Mav 22. Charles E.
Hughes carried Oregon in the prcsidon
tial preference primary by 30,000 votes,
according to results availaPio today.
With about 70 per cent of the bill
lots counted, Hughes had 50,257 and
Cummins 23,704. Burton wns trailing
fur in tho rear. Colonel Roosevelt was
out of tho race altogether. Although
his name wns not printed on the bal
lot it. was expected that his supporters
would writo in his name. Thoy didn't.
Roosevelt probably received less than
200 votes in the entire state.
Tho latest count in tho rnco for re
publican district delegates indicate
IEU BANDITS
LOOT CQUMTRY AS
AMER1GAI1S LEAVE
COLEIN IS SENT BACK
TO DISPERSE ROBBERS
Texas Militiamen Refuse !a
Take Oath Necessary for
Federal Service
By Carl D. Groat
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Washington, May 22. One hundred
and aixteeu Texas militiamen refused
to take the oath necessary for federal
acrvico, Secretary of War Baker was
advised today. Under the Dick law,
they can be court-martialed and finsd.
but thoy cannot be forced to Berve.
it.iKor commented today on an al
leged interview with General Obregon
in Mexico City in which the Mexican
war minister was quotou as saying that
the American-Mexican situation was
acuta. The secretary doclnrcd he did
not know the Big Bend ense had peen
discussed at the recent border conference.
He snid be though that in any easa
the Big Bend situation would be clear
ed by withdrawal of Colonel Sibley's
mon, which is now under wny. lha
attitude of Provisional President 0r
ranza is reported still triendly.
Private ndviceB say another noto from
Carranza is on route to Washington,
bearing on the prcsenco of United
Mates troops in Mexico. It is believed
to be friendly.
Skirmish With Outlaws.
Columbus, N. M., May 22. Four
hand of Mexican bandits are following
the withdrawing American troops to
day,- looting. It is believed ono of
these organizations attacked a section
of the Seventh cavalry which fought a
skirmish action in which ono soldier
was wounded.
General Pershing is rushing n column 1
back to engngo tho outlaws. His ob
ject is to dispcrso them. Scouts report
that each band is 70 horsemen strong.
Inhabitants of Mexican villages are
fleoing north in tho wnko of the Amer
icans, circulating stories thnt Francisco
Villa has recovered nnd is organizing
a new army, nnd that the United States
army is retreating because it fears him.
Snipers Getting Bold.
Han Antonio, Texas, Mny 22. Of
ficial news that Mexican snipers had
uttucked General Dandling's cavalry
was wired to army headquarters today.
Private Strong was -reported missing
after a brush with bandits. Horsemen
wore ordered out to search for him.
Uonerul Funston directed a cavalry
Bquadron to hasten to Cerro Blanco,
whoro Chico ( auo, a bandit, is reported
to have established himself.
(Continued on Fage Eight.)
Agricultural Committee
of Pomona Grange Calls
For State Rally July 3rd
The Pomona Grange Agricultural! Motion mado nnd carried tu t voto
committee met at tho Hnlem Commcr- 0( thanks be extended to the Hnlem
cinl club rooms Wednesday, May ii, c)mmercji dub for their kindness in
nr 1 o'clock, with W. H. utevens in the
chair.
President, W. II. Slovens, Gervais;
Mrs. Zolla Fletcher, Hulem; Mrs. W. C.
Kenyon, Aurora; J. R. Miller, Htnyton;
d. W. Fnriss, Turner; W. A. JoneB,
Mucleay; J. J. McDonald, Sulem; H. F.
Crawford, Turner; T. B. Simpson, Jef
ferson; O. F. Larsen, Woodburn; E. Fin
lev, Jefferson; O. C. Weller, Woodburn;
JK. Whitehead, Turner.
On motion W. II. Stevens wns elected
permanent chairman, nnd J. E. White
head, permanent secretary.
Address by Prof. Hurd, of O. A. C.
Snlem Commercial club was invited
to co operutc; with committee in grange
rally to be held in Salem, Oregon, July
3, during Cherry fair. Invitation wsb
accented by W. M. Hamilton, president
of t lie ."Mucin Mimmerciui ciuu, uu u
tinlf nt his orL'iinizntion.
Motion ninde and enrried that W. II.
Stevens and J. K. Whitehead be np
. ;,ITinf' Kliitnrm innPrfll . IJlllllilMl 11 H C ( J III 1 1 1 L I W "
Sir .T,,l,n Maxwell renorted 'todav to I On motion W. A. Jones, Mrs. Zella
Premier Asquith. Lyn:-h has not" de-1 Fletcher and H. II. Cruv.ford wero ap
nied taking part in the uprising, the pointed committee on parade.
r : tt;... .,! It., wns On motion B. H. HimpFOn, J. Vonrheei
first sentenced to death. Later this and C. K. Spenco wero appointed corn-
was commuted. . 'mittce on reception
May Break With Calles.
Douglas, Ariz., May 22. A break be
tween President Carranza and Military
Governor P. Klias Calles of Sonora, as
a result of tho appointment of Adulfa
Do La Huerta civil governor, was
hinted nt hero today hy thoso woll in
formed in Mexican affairs.
A Oarrnnzn decree granting O. W'uv
well, head of the Cniiunen Cattle com
pany permission to export 10,000 head
of cattle to tho United States, and the
attempt to abolish prohibition also
caused tho Btrained relations, it was
stated.
Calles was reported to have opposed
tho movement of cnttlo through Sonora,
threatening tho use of troops. Callel
also Btatcd ho would stop further sals
of liquor in bis domain.
extending the use of their club rooms,
nnd co-oneratiou in the work of tho
Cherry fair.
Motion made and earned mat next
meeting be held in Sulem on Wednes
day, Juno 14.
The following permanent committees
of tho Pomona grange are at your serv
ice for any information you may desire
on their respective subjects:
Taxation J. K Whitehead, Turner;
F. H. Simpson, Jefferson; W. F. Gulvin,
Marion; J. K. Miller, Stnyton.
Co-operation A. P. Kirsch, Htayton;
W. C. Kenyon, Aurora; J. A. Colgan,
Marion.
Itoads W. J. Jefferson, Gervnis;
Kugene Finley, Jefferson; W. K. Schou
rer, Aurora.
Legislature Mrs. Zclla S. Fletcher,
Salem: W. A. Jones, Mncleay; O. C.
Weller, Woodburn; J. C. Coomler, Ger-
vais.
Markets J. J. MncDonnld, Salem;
II. It. Crawford. Turner; O. F. Larsen,
Woodburn; Mrs. J. C. Teckenburg, Mac-
lcay.
Notico: Don't forget the grango pic
nle dinner and prance parade In con-
incctiou with tho Chorry fair, July 3.
HUGHES DENIE3 HTJMOB
Washington, May 22. "Jus
tice Hughes does not recognize
irresponsible rumors," it wns
announced through his Becre
tary today when ho wns ques
tioned as to a printed story
whero he was quoted as having
said:
"Tho republicans will nomi
nate Roosevelt. There is no use
eonsidcring anyone else.'
TIH7 WkAThkR ?
11114 lliiniuui ie
Oregon: To
night fair -with,
fi'ost; Tuesday
fair, warmer ex
cept near tha
coast; westofly
winds.
