I? j""sift (y j
9i
FINANCIAL EDITION
linger
NIGHT
EXTRA
ictienm
r-CJ a
.STS
G$ "r ?
: vol. n-3sro. 10.1
PHILADELPHIA, T1IUHSDAY, JANUAHY 10, 191 G.
CortwonT, 101(1, bi tub Pontic Ledom Commhi.
V3C "".
AN
II k
OJ firs
1 1 r ? -n
1 1 j
'NINE MORE AMERICANS MEET
DEATH AT HANDS OF MEXICAN
BANDITS; 18 BODIES ARRIVE
?'Two Women, One
Latest Victims of Villa s Guerrillas.
Slain at Madera Under 'Orders
of General Rodriguez
I Tragic Scenes Mark Arrival of Corpses of Eighteen
Mining men ivineu. m oaiita isuuui massacre
at El Paso Graphic Story of Murders
Told Tension on Border Grows
TTT. PA.CIO Toy.. .Tnn. 13. Fnllnwinn1 rlnolv llnnn Mnrwlnv'a mnjnrn
nr uu .w( - , -
of IV Americans and ono Canadian in
ifrom Chihuahua City that nine more Americana, including an American
woman, and one English woman havo been killed by followers of Francisco
LVilla at Madera.
Tho latest massacre was reported
icttne under orders of General Jose Rodriguez, who recently issued a procla-
I'mation saying ho would kill every American who fell into his hands.
F The death train bearing the, eighteen bullet-ridden corpses of the Amen-
5J cans and Canadian slnin Monday nt
o'clock this morning and after a short delay crossed the Rio Grande to the
Sante Fc freight yards, where tho bodies were removed.
Accompanying tho bodies was an armed escort of four Americans that
had gone out from Chihuahun City to recover them. Tho "death special"
was followed by a troop train filled with Carranza soldiers.
The arrival here of the victims of the massacre inflamed still higher
the feeling which has been growing over since news of the massacre was
' first received.
"-v Military officers on tho border,
Wvtn doubled on orders from General
jquads of policemen verc on duty tnrougnout tne city all nignt to put down
any outbreaks or anti-Mexican demonstrations.
Groups of weeping relatives nwnueii
inxlously for tlio arrlvnl of tho dcnth
train. As rapidly as the bodies were
...' f-n. Mm train they were turned
over to undertakers without any formnl-
rJ,Sl'. .nmi wore terribly mutilated.
Eihowfmr that tho victims had not oni
n teen nuu ....... -.- -- -- - ---
Tne ooay oi i. v. .....ow.. ...... -.. --
capitated with a bayonet nml n long
jearcli was necessary boforo tho hcail
vas fourid.
Frcati, details of tic innBsnqro wcro re
ceived litre with the dcnth train. They
thowed mat tho Moxlcnn bnndlts had ex
erclaed tha Most fiendish brutality In put
tln!iher helpless victims to denth.
iiJSeril-Ja-th-storr-ofthc-massacrOj. as.
iWFkthcred from persons who witnessed It:
i'- ...... -.,- , 1.. HtArnnnn tllA "milS"
V ADOUl i;u diunuuy """-""7. . ;
fiacre train" stopped -at wiomci w. ..
Ihort distance from Bnntn Isabel. Hlio
i.i..i. nvninininir (tint a sUnnly train
' had been" derailed a short dlstnnco ahead.
pome Ol WIO IJi.noc.iho.o ..vn-.. .--.---.
v. ..-..I,.,, fn ivnllr nn nml down bCSlUO
the (racks. As they did so between 30 and
. .. . ... i ...-. uuAn ,-immilff
i armed Mexicann .. ............
toward the railrond tracks, nnd along the
,,' nt n rnnfn nt lnV hills In tllO dlS-
Stance- several hundred mounted men sud
denly sprang Into view. jvii wo
YlHlsUs. . . .
The Mexicans on foot, upon reaching
"the. train, clambered up tho steps ana
entered the conches, in mo meantime
ordering all who hnd left tho cars to ie
turn to their seats. They were armed
with armv rllles and regular Bervlce
plitols. which they handled In tho most
.threatening manner.
. "RtRnri un. nil von urlnKOS!" anouieu
a,' Mexican, who seemed to be tho leader 1
Of the band. He was dressed In a unl- I
form and wore a heavy sombrero covered I
with stiver mountings.
The passensers. thinking that they had .
teen held up nnd that tho Mexicans
would bo-satlsfled with taking thtlr money
and Jewelry, were not very much
alarmed. However, thlo foellng of com
parative .safety began giving way lo In
tense anxiety when the leader began
walking down tho alslo of the' car poking
various passengers In the ribs with the
muule of his pistol and demanding, "You
"American?"
At the end of each car stood several
of the bandits, their rllles carrying army
bayonets.
Most of the Mexicans knew a little
English, their vocabulary consisting
chiefly of oaths.
Most of the Americans had risen to
their, feet, pointing their hands above
their heads. One of. them called out.
Well,, boys, we are. robbed again."
No sooner had thn words left hla mouth
tbaa a shot rang out nnd v D. Pearce
Mil back )n his seat with a scream of
Continued on Iue Four, Column "One
THE WEATHER
yU was at dinner.
fpomeoooy had told a very good story.
A Certain nprsnn nltttni- n.vt tn 11H V.
IsVD., to be more exact without being
aBict at all, urged us to print It In the
Mwr.
fwMHa "" we asked, not having heard
IX. anything to do with the weather?"
B"Qh. yes. Indeed," she replied; "it's all
Lat swimming."
TaAt ltiadA It tna tni net nlnna wa hOVA
p-Jost about convinced Tiny Maxwell, the
-rv..u.B ra, mat me oest Tiace in ine
L.MDCr fOt hid nnllfltln nanr than. Havo la
ta. - - "..- ..wna ...vaa v.? .-
15 Hi' weather box. At any rate, here is
yarn:
Li!? Englishman mot another.
' i?B t'onner Why so glum, old top?
' TUft L&ttpr V1fAn am..tnnn frlonda
r -- ,w. ,...b,.v. ..-
fe r,n' nave been drowned.
Tha Former Drowned? Awful. How .
i.iii It hnoncn?
? latter Too proud to swim.
FORECAST
For PhilndelnhSn. ntiti tuVi'mVij TTn.
KHUd and much colder tonight, with
fKOOaoilJ jmntu tf,-W,. Fr!,!,,,. tnir
H& wch colder; strona west and '
famweat wind "runj wmi. m
t iwweat mnaa. ,
LOST? AND FOUND
ttj!:1?1! Uly" cold watch. Initials B.
C H.
,on Uuk. fi
....". Wl..
ua aim
er fob and guard at-
il uJ.i5,u'?1K uriernoon. betwen Academy
W.ffHrl ? A .Readme Terminal, on Broad.
fHB.fi, X' .v""' uotrai rewara u returned
8.ilc. r1""' Beechwood School. Jenkla-
fa,, pt telepoana Ogonti OUT.
lut5?T .Vr Saturday evening. orawber
: i:."?P-U-oad and Locust and DhotODJa
! Sus V'.? 'a Market, containing money.
LBri&n,tiT,,'J,te" "ward, return to i-
-(,, Broad and PhMtnut. na aue&tioas.
HSlfc''1 Sunday, January 0. a amall gold
rBhW-'Maaitt Court. CMiuanton. ttI r-
-n nwsN, .
oaST.rt.SSJY108' January tk small aiawnw t
I i, rtWM rnwr! " Jt.jw"!f l
fNtfA. B....J7T .- " TT T3 I
t-S i "-'- vu- w v.- i
British, Among
r. i -i - j" -
Mexico word was received here today
to be the work of former Villa soldiers
Santa Ysabcl, arrived in Juarez at 1:155
ncross which tho bodies were borne,
John Pershing, U. "S. A., and extra
PRESIDENT'S DAUGHTER
UNDERGOES OPERATION
AT HOSPITAL HERE
Margaret Wilson at Jefferson
as Result of Throat and Nose
Trouble Dr. D. Brnden
. . rJKyle- in-Charge
CONDITION SATISFACTORY
r
'm. . "
VMMtfg&s
;wui3s
MISS MARGARET WILSON
Iss Margaret Wilson, the President's
diraghter, underwent a successful double
operation of the throat and nose today at
the Jefferson Hospital. She Is resting
easily.
Her tonsils were removed and an ade
noid growth that Interfered with her
breathing also was taken out nt the same
time by Prof. D. Draden Kyle, of the
Jefferson Medical College, the nose and
throat specialist. Doctor Kyle, whose
offices are at 1517 Walnut street, has
been treating Miss Wilson's throat for
some time.
The wires between this city and Wash
ington were kept busy this morning with
Inquiries from her friends. President Wil
son himself sent a telegram and was as
Hured by the hospital authorities that his
daughter's condition was "very satlsfac-'
tory." Miss Wilson occupies Room 610 at
the hospital, and It was said that she
would remain at the hospital for several
days before returning to Washington.
The operation was performed this morn
ing. Miss Wilson, accompanied by her
cousin, Miss Helen Woodrow Bones, ar
rived at the hospital Tuesduy f,rom Wash
ington In the White House automobile.
The trip was made without attracting
any attention and until today only a few
physicians and Miss Wilsons closest
friends in tne city Knew mat sne wus
to undergo the operation, or even that
she was In the city. Miss Bones, who Is
Miss Wilson's chum, will remain with
her until she recovers. She Is now at
the Bellevue-Stratford.
The throat ana nasai trauma mu not
affect Miss wl soh's health, it was said
hospital, but It Interfered with
? ',1P-.,hine wnlle binglng. Miss Wil
son who possesses a rich voice, has been
taking vocal lessons In this city at regu
lar Intervals In addition to studying art
at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine
Arts. ,. '
1 5IAYOR INSPECTS ROADWAYS
Makes Tour of Highways to Famil
iarize Himself With Needs
Mayor Smith, accompanied y Director
Daysman, pf tha Department of Public
w.i,. sml Chief Connell. of the Bureau
of Hlghwgya, spent thi morning on. an
insoecllon tour 01 muumpat roauwaya
iStSnSSSdld a trio aver tb Norihw.
V "--.. - ., ,., . .,..'
-,.TX--lla southern Boulevari ajuLl
p voe. "fsyrwsyj
RESULTS OF THE LAST "BOWL FIGHT,"
CUSTOM FOR 50 YEARS AT OLD PENN
William Llfson, 17 years old, n member of the Freshman Class, killed.
Dcnth was duo to RUfTocation.
Gordon S. C. Smyth, of C123 Greene street, Germnntown, a sopho
more, seriously injured. Physicians say he may be suffering from con
cussion of brain. It was feared that he would die, but it is now believed
that chances favor recovery.
Four others badly hurt, but able to leave hospital today. Twenty
badly bruised and cut, treated nt their homes.
Students adopt resolutions discontinuing bowl fights forever. Provost
ratifies action, saying ho desired to leave decision to students.
Coroner permits abandoning of autopsy. Detectives say it would
be impossible to fix blnmc and that there will be no arrests. Father of
dead student says ho wants no one punished.
Socinl events at University canceled. Meeting for military prepared
ness, with address by Major General Leonnrd Wood, arranged lor today,
postponed. All University flags nt hnlf-staff.
STEEL MERGER
CAMBRIA Al HEAD
Three Companies Will Be
United, as Things
Now Stand
SAFEGUARD INVESTORS
Work of welding together tho new steel
merger, of which the Cambria Steel Com
pany Is to be the head. Is progressing
Bntlsfnctorlty, nnd there nro only a few
matters to be nttended to before nn otll
olnl announcement can be made.
This ntntetnent was made today by .1.
Leonard Itcplogle, who represents tho
new Interests In Cambria, nnd who Ih In
this city today to attend tho regular
weekly meting of the Kxecutlvo Commit
tee of the company's hoard of directors,
of which he Is n member.
As matters now stnnd, three companies
will go Into tho new merger Cambria
Steel, Lackawanna Steel nnd the Youngs
town Sheet nnd Tube Company. There Is
n possibility thnt the Inland Steel Com
pany mny bo tnken In nnd nlso n ship
building company, possibly tho Newport
News .Shipbuilding Company, although
this could not be lenrncd today.
At different times the last scvernl
1 months, while negotiations havo been pro-
grcsslne In forming tho new giant steel
company. thcr hns been tnlk of other
companies being taken In. Among these
was tho kcpubllc Iron and Steel Company,
but It w.ih Hnld today that there never
was nny intention of taking In this con
cern. TALK.-Ol' A CRAMr'S TRANSFEH. ,
Negotiations nlso -havo been reported
to be under way for, acquiring tho Wll
llnm Cramp & Sons Ship and Englno
Building Company, nnd offors nro snld
to hnvo come from three different
sources for that property, from the Mld
vnlo Steel nnd Oidnnnco directly after
thnt company wns formed, taking over
tho old MIdvalo Steel Company; from
the Bethlehem Steel Company and from
a third party, thought by some persons
to bo tho Cambria people, for J100, or par,
for the stock. Information coming from
authoritative sources today was to tho
effect that Cambria was not after
Cramps.
Snenklntr of the work which has been
! gono through In making up tho new steel
company. Mr. ltcploglo snld today: "The
matter Is progressing slowly, hut satis
factorily." Denying thnt all stockholders
would not get the same opportunity to
sell their holdings to tho new interests,
as some reports In tho tlnnnclul district
have Wl it from time to time, Mr.
t Rcplogle said: "If tho merger goes
I through every stockholder of tho com
pany will ue given the opportunity 10 get
out on the same basis."
There have been reports that Mr.
Replogle had options on large blocks of
stock and that they expire January 15.
It has been announced nuthoiitntlvely,
however, that such was not tho case.
Thero never wero any options for tho
13th of the month and the only ones that
have been given weio for January 31.
The offer to tho Cambria Steel stock
holders, which will bo tho same to nil
shareholders, largo and small, will bo
M) a share nnd rights to subscribe for
Block In the new company to the extent
of M per cent, of their holdings In
Cambria Steel stock. Figured on this
basis, each share of Cambria Steel stock,
with tho rights selling around $17, Is
Continued en I'use To, Column lite
COLD WAVE IS COMING;
BLOW TO GRIP RAGE
Disturbance in West, Headed
This Way, Expected to
Dispel Fog
Orlp sufferers and others, overworked
physicians and persons who are fighting
to keep off colds will find a ray of hope
In tho statement of Fprecaster UHss of
the local weather bureau, who declared
.1.1.. n.n.nnn V. n tllf. 1lf.Bl.ni POM W&V6
would surely reach Philadelphia and It
will be here wthln 36 hours.
"There will be rapla changes In the
next 36 hours," was the way he put It,
"although the weather will remain un
settled today. But the mercury will be
gin to fall rapidly tonight ami probably
will be standing at IB or ?0 degrees to
morrow morning."
A dense fog, with occasional rains, the
prime cause rf most of the sickness and
deaths of the last few weeks, enveloped
this city this morning. It demoralized
the river traffic and kept the city dark
and dreary until long after the time when
the hundreds of workers had set In mo
tion tho machinery of the varlods In
dustries. Bu,t the foggy, rainy, damp weather is
going to go and with It w(ll go the grip.
The whole of the western part of tho
United States Is In the grip of zero
weather, which Is .novlng toward the
eastern coast In Chicago it was 4 below
zero, as it was In St Louis, this morning.
This kind of weather embraces the whole
of the Lake region and the Ohio basin.
In the central Mississippi Valley and
the lower Ohio Valley the mercury
dropped between K and CO degrees In the
last U hours. The zero weather now ex
tends all tha way down to northern Texas,
and Galveston and Corpus Christ! reported
weather below the freezing point
All day tomorrow It wJH bo cold, and
tha "while Ivp" of '"in grip sufferer
declares he experts to sea a, temperature.
ofl or even tower by temofrow
aftWt
NEW CIVIL SERVICE
BOARD OPENS WAY
TO MANY BIG JOBS
Rules Changed So That Fa
vorites May Obtain Choice
Appointments
CUMMISKY A CHIEF
Mcmbcs of the new Civil Service Com
mission today nltoroil tho rule governing
municipal civil rervlco in such a manner
ns to ninko possible the throwing out of
per cent, of more than 373 eligible lists
obtained by competitive o -amlnntlons dur
ing the lilnnkenhurg ndmin'atrntlon.
They nlso adopted a rule, with tho np
provnl of Mnjor Smith, doing awny with
tho necessity for oldlng public hearings
In cases whcio departmental heads nsk
for tho exemption from examination of In
dividuals they select for highly technical
places that ordinarily would bo governed
by the Civil Service regulations.
This rule will apply In cases such ns
thnt of Chief Albright, of tho Survey
Burenu, where, following n public hear
ing, exemption wns grantcl. In tho fu
ture the' question of exempt. on will lie
In tho discretion of tho commls.-iloMcrs.
Tho most Important alteration in the
rules Is the one chanaiug tho Ufa of
eligible lists from one to tlucc yearn to
"one year unless a longer tcini Is tlxed
by tho Commission."
Tho adoption of thta ttinnho makes
possible tho anpulntmcnt of Frank .1.
Cummlskcy ns Chief of the Bureau of
City Property at it sulary of fl'.OO. Up
untl the change in the uilcs his ap
pointment was held jip by ho -existence
of-a'llViTellglblollst'contninlng thriinmes
of n hnlf dozen men from whom a cholco
could lirtvc been malic. Tho "list wus
dnted March 3, 191.1, nnd had thrco
months longer to run. Cummlskey this
morning took a provisional examination
which is a prcfimctory pioceedlng nnd
will undergo a Ilnnl examination later,
unless Director Imtesman asks for his
exemption na In the case of Chief
Albright.
Urnest Hnvefcld, who habeen a clerk
for many yenra In tho offlco of tho
Director of Public Wo.-s, in n salary of
lluOO, was today appointed Chief Clerk
by Director Datcsmaii, nt a salary of
l-'SOO, to fill the vacancy caut-ed by the
resignation of Joseph D. Marlon.
MENACED IN ?G5,000 FIRE
William F. Read, Wealthy Millowner,
111 From Shock Servant Res
cued in Nick of Time
Flro which enrly this morning destroyed
the $63,000 Lansdowno homo oft William
F. Rend, president of the Lnnsdowne
Mills, nt 12th and Jackson streets, came
near causing the death of the nged mill
owner himself, his sister, Miss Patty
Rend, and a domestic.
The blaze started after midnight and
wns discovered by two other servants,
Klttlo Rownnd and Catherine McDer
mott, who were returning to the house
after an evening out.
They saw flames on the llrst floor and
no sign of activity to Indicate that anyone
but themselves knew the place was on lire.
They ran Into the house the back way.
which was yet free from (lames, and up to
the second iloor, whero Mr. Read and his
sister had their npurtments.
The homo was destroyed but no ono
wus hurt. Mr.' Read, however. Is III
from shock.
KILLED BY TROLLEY CAR
AS HIS FRIEND DIES
James Sheridan a Victim of
Grip Charles F, Linde
Run Down on Street
Five minutes after his life-long friend.
.TiiniPH Kherlflnn 379(1 Vnrth llrinil afreet.
died today, Charles F. Llnde, 364S North
, Canute street, nlso died. The formerdied
! ns the result of an attack of grip, while
I the latter was struck by a trolley car
late yesterday, and died at 6:3 o'clock
I this morning, after his Inseparable friend,
Sheridan, nad died at 6:w o clock.
Roth had often expressed the hope that
neither would outlive the other. Sheridan
was stricken down after a rive-day at
tack of grip. , IJe is survived by n wife
and ten children. The funeral will be held
Monday from St. Stephen's Church. Sher
idan was a well-known character of Tioga
and was everybody's friend. He was
L proprietor of a saloon at Broad street and
Uermantown avenue.
Llnde was a lawyer with offices at 12
North 13th street. While returning to his
home last night he failed to see the ap
proach of a repair trolley car at the cor
ner of Kria and Park avenues. He was
taken to the Samaritan Hospital, where
he wus found to have a fru'Uured ikull.
Ho was a prominent Mason, a membet of
the Knights of Pythias, and other secret
orders.
The driver of the car. Hugh McN'amee.
iOZi Reese street, was taken to City Hall,
where he was, held to await the action of
the coroner.
Grip Victim Shoots Himself
LANCASTER. Pa., .ja 13,-Thrown
Into a high feve,r by an attack of grip,
Amos Huber, J? years old, a farmer re
siding a mils southeast of Wlllqw Street,
fired sin: fcuUet into, m, 4 ft j,e y
la bed. FV younger brothers were la
JM rot room asleep, at tho time, Huber
pot expstl if Uy,
DEATH MAKES
STUDENTS STOP
ALL PENN FRAYS
1 1 j
Classes Vote to Abolish
Bowl Fights, Following
Killing of Lifson
OTHERS HURT IMPROVE
No Autopsy for Victim Father
Asks That No One Be
Punished
Pings on nil buildings of the University
of IViumylvnnln nro nt half-mast today
for William l.lfcon. of Kllznbcth, X. J.,
tho l"-ycni-old frcshmnn who lost his life
yesterday In tho last nnntinl "bowl light"
on Museum Kleld.
Kor thnt It wns the Inst of the hnlf
century of bowl lights wns decided short
ly after noon lodny by three of thr col
lege clnssps, ratifying tho action of the
sophomores, who last night adopted res
olutions nbamluiilng the historical snug
gle forever.
Provost Smith wanted the decision to
come from tho students themselves, nnd
ho merely ncccptcd their rrsolutlons to
day nnd declared tho bowl-light custom
discontinued.
SMYTH WII.l. IlECOVnil.
Students loanipd with great lellpf thnt
thcio would puilmbly not be n second fa
tality as a i run ft of tho light. i
It w -i feared last night that- Gordon S.
C. Smyth, of 6121 Oiccnr street. German- j
luwu, ii m,ii!uiiiui ', ii.tu 11-1:11 i.tuiMj in
jured. It was snld then that h had con
cussion of the brain, but tho University
Hospltnl physicians said todny that he
was not In nny present danger, nnd that
the injury hnd not ns yet been dlngnoscd
ns concussion of tho brnln. It Is believed
thnt the chances favor his recovery.
The others who wcto taken to the hoi
pltnl nil left the institution todny. Smyth
being tho only ono thero now. They are:
AUTIlt'll niSSIN'n. Jr.. nn cdllnr nf the Ile.l
ami llluo. son of Arthur i:ifaln, nctinir
treHFUrrr of tho Philadelphia Hccord, of 17."2
North 1EM street: musoulir cramps.
JOHN' II. HIM., of EvnnHtnn. 111.. whoio
I'hllndrlphla nddrcai la "Itl Wnlnut lane, a
sophomore, wrenched knee.
llOIinitT Dl'NI.Al'. sophomore, who pin red
end last full on tho varsity foatlinll am:
heart supposed to huvo been unectcd. but
ho Is rccocrlnff.
WH.MAM HOPKINS, nophomoro: exhaustion.
Twonty others were badly bruised and
cut or fainted from exhaustion. Freder
ick Altcmus, of Washington, I). C, nnd
living nt tho Phi Delta Thcta fraternity
house, hns n sprained ankle. IIo Is n
sophomore. William D. I.nttlmcr, of
Cleveland, another sophomore, wns picked
up unconscious and Is resting at the same
fraternity-
HOW LIKSON MET HIS DEATH
Details of tho manner In which Llfson
met his death wero revealed today In tho
questioning of students who had taken
part in tho fight. It was learned that
tho young student had eagerly looked for
ward to the battle. He was 5 feet 8
Inches tnll, nnd nlthough ho weighed
only 135 pounds had won honors last full
ns lightweight wrestler of his class. Ho
entered the strugglo better equipped
physically than tho average freshman of
his age IS years.
Tho bowl light Is (or rather was, for
thero will never bo another), divided Into
two halves of 15 minutes each. Tho llrst
hnlf had been a dinw. In the second half
Continued on I'nice l'uiir, t'aliiiim l'oiir
FACTORY HEAD ENDS LIFE
111 Health and Fear of Strike Prompt
Manufacturer to Commit
Suicide
HI health, business troubles and tho
fear that Ills employes would go out on a
stllke with other garment workers, caused
Samuel Kotlarsky to commit suicide today
In his '.ince of business nt DID Wnlnut
street. Kotlarsky, who was 53 years old.
wns head of the Hy-Giade Waist and
Dress Company, und lived nt 3:'30 Berks
street.
Ills body was found today on a press
ing table In his factory. A rubber tube
was in his mouth. lie hnd illscounectcii
It from the ' Iron and had turned on
tho full How of the gas.
Sixty girls clamored for admission when
they arrived for work this morning. They
were later Informed that their employer
was dead. Won led for fear they would
lose their Jobs, the girls waited several
hours in the hope they would bo allowed
to work, and then returned to their
homes.
SPEDIZIONE ITALIANA
PERIL MONTENEGRO
Re Vittorio in Conferenza coi
Ministri Militari Per l'lnvio
di Truppe a Scutari
Un telegramma da Itoma dice cho e'
molto probablle cht truppe Itallane stano
mandate fra 48 oro In soccorso del monte
negrlnl. S e' appreso oggl che ro Vittorio
e' tomato a Itoma appunto In seguito alle
notlzle al!armantt dal Montenegro, chla
mato da un telegramma, delta reglna.
Elena, che ha una parte lmportante nelle
declelonl che stanno per esserc prase,
Non nppena glunto a Itoma II re fece
chlamare II barone Sonnlno, minlstro
degll Gsterl, ed ebbe'eon lul un lungo
colloqulo. Oggl 11 re conferisce con le
autorlta mllltail. col minlstro della
Guerra e con quello della Marina.
La reglna Elena, tl dice, aviebbo chl
amato a Roma 11 re non nppena ebbs
notUia cho gl uustrlacl avevano atUccnto
con forze superior! II .t--?nte Lovcen e che
questo stuvu per cudere. IS' glunto a
Iloma, anche II prluclpc Panllo del Mon
tenegro, che ha fatto vislta al barone
Sonnono e pol si e' rcato al Qulrlnale.
Al re (1 prlnclpo, che e' sun conato,
preseuto' personulmente mi appello per
soccorsl mandato dal vecchlo re Nicola.
(Leggero in a pugtna K- ultimo e plu'
dettagllate notlzie nulla tjuerra. In
ltallano.)
Woman Killed by Fall Downstairs
Mrs. J-Jary O'Nell was Instantly killed
last night by a full down the cellar stairs
at her home. $3 North llUlick street She
bad started to Ox the heater Her son
John was about to go out and she .-ailed
to him to put on its rubbers, so as uot I
to guv ".( reel, nnu a mujqcai, jaier as
heard her full. Her mcH h broken.
Dr. Is Tt, Fill pi an. J31 North. Hh street,
said 4eath hd been. lnitaiUancow,
QUICK
HELD UNDER $20,000 BAIL ON SOCIETY WOMAN'S CHARGE
WIlHnm Butler, nllns Butts, vn3 held under $20,000 ball for
couit by United States Commissioner Long In the Federal Building
todny. Ho wns accused by Mrs. Susan Winpenny, of 1432 North
Broad street, prominent In society, who nttended the hearing with
her son. J. Bolton Winpenny. Butler, who wns arrested na his lodg
ing nt G02 North 10th street, was declared to have called at Mrs.
Winpenny'e homo, nnd, representing himself to bo a United Stnte3
Marshal, to have asked for $DOOO.
MUTISII GALLIP0LI TROOPS SENT TO SAL0NICA
ATHENS, Jan. 13. British troops withdrawn from tho QalH
poli pnlU3ula arc being disembarked nt S.ilonicn, according to a
news agency telegram.
CITY HAS BALANCE OF $11,0G5,G33.G2
Tlio weekly statement of City Treasurer Wllllnm McCoach Rhows that
tho receipts amounted to J4,nSG,tl9.l3, and tho payments to $676,192,62, which,
with tho Hum on hand Inst week nnd Including tho sinking, fund account, left
n balance of $U,0GT,633.62 at tlfo closo nf business Inst night.
MAINE POWDER PLANT BLOWS UP; PLOT SUSPECTED
I'OUTIjAXD, Mo., Jan. 13. An explosion that was felt five miles away
occurred lodny In tlio Newlmll plant of .tho du Pont Powder Company. No
ono was hurt. Plotters nro suspected.
JANE ADDAMS REPUDIATES ROOSEVELT POLICIES
WASHINGTON, .Inn. 13. .lane Addums, ono of tho founders of tho Pro
grcsslve party, told the Houso Commlttro on Military Affairs today 8ho no
longer could follow Colonel Hoosovclt. "He Ih ready to fight nt tho drop of
the lmt. and fnr bo It from mo to defend him. And I do not bellevo that ho
RponkH for nny large body of people," she snld. She Indorsed President "Wilson's ,
policy In Mexico, but opposed his preparedness plan.
NEAR-RIOTS RE-ECHO FROM FORD PEACE MEETING
THE HAG UK, Jan. 13. Itl feeling which nrose Inst night during a peace)
mass-meeting under the auspices of tho 1'ord pacifists wcro fitlll in evi
dence todny. N
The mnsH-mectlng rlmost broke up In a riot when Johnn Hollenberg, a
Danish, delegate to tho pcaco conclave, charged tho French with atrocities
upon the Germans.
. The chnrgo was followed lijf cries of "lies" and "you nre speaking pro
Gorinun lies." It wan nearly live minutes before order was restored.
John D. Hurry, one of tho American orators, wns Interrupted by cries of,
"Ford Is nothing but a man with money." Mr. Harry replied: "Yes, bjit ho
Is puttlng.that money to good use."
KAISER'S GRAVE ILLNESS OFFICIALLY DENIED
BKHL1N, Jan. 13. Tho United Press wus today officially authorized to deny
rumors circulated In foreign countries thnt the Kaiser Is seriously 111, Tho Env j
peror's Illness hns nt no time been serious, it wns stilted. It was necessary i,6r,! s
him to remain In his rooms In the palace for only a few days. Ho Is now im
proved to such an extent that ho is holding dally military conferences with
members of tho General Staff.
BELGIUM TO PROTEST AGAINST WAR LEVY
PA IMS, Jun. 13. The Belgian Government, it Is stated, Is about to lodgo a
protest with neutral Governments against the new German wnr levy of ? 8,000,000
monthly, In addition to last year's tax of $86,000,000,
Tho Ilelglun protest, wiys a Havre report, will point out thnt under the)
provisions of The Hague coaventlon war taxes levied In occupied territory are)
limited to amounts necessary to meet tho needs of tho nrmy of occupation or to
pay for tlio administration of tlio territory In question. The now Belgian tax
Is said to bo far in excess of tho nmount needed for these purposes.
BRITISH LEADERS SEE COLONEL HOUSE
LONDON, Jnn. 13. A list of the prominent Englishmen who hnvo been vis
ited by Colonel M. M. House, President Wilson's special envoy, since his arrival
here, Includes Premier Asqulth, Sir Edward Grey, tho Foreign Minister; Lloyd
George, Minister of Munitions, nnd Arthur J. Balfour, First Lord of the Ad
miralty. Colonel House has been In private conferonco with a number of other
lending men.
That great importance Is attached to his mission nt this juncture is evi
denced by tho marked courtesy with whicli ho hns been received In tho highest
official qunrters.
ENVER PASHA THANKS ENTENTE ENEMIES
BERLIN, Jan. 13. Tho following excerpt from a speech by Enver Pasha,
Turkish Minister of War, before the Turkish Parliament has been telegraphed
from Constantinople:
"I nm thankful to the English and French for tho Dardanelles expedition.
Without that enterprise tho world would still bellevo that the Turkish defense
could not stand before Anglo-French uttacks.
"Now tho Turks havo proved that the Dardanelles cannot bo taken and that
Constantinople Is safe forever in tho hnnds of the Turks."
MORENO ELECTED PRESIDENT OF ECUADOR
GUAYAQUIL, Jan. 13. Senor Don Alfredo Bnzuerizo Moreno has been
elected President of the republic of Ecuador for tho period of 1916 to 1920. Tho
elections, which extended over four days, caused a great deal of excitement In
tho country.
Senor Moreno formerly was Vice President of the republic, and also ho
held tho posts of Foreign Minister and president of tho Senate.
LORD CHELMSFORD MAY BE INDIAN VICEROY
LONDON. Jan. 13. The Times understands thut Lord Chelmsford is to
be the new Viceroy of India. Lord Chelmsford, a Unionist In politics, was
Governor of Queensland from 1905 to 1909 and for the succeeding three years
he wus Governor of New South Wales, Ho was born in 1868 and in 1894 married
the Hon. Frances Charlotte Guest, daughter of the first Lord Wlnborne. Hs
has two sons and four daughters.
FOOD SPECULATORS ARRESTED IN RUSSIA
PHTHOORAD, Jan. 13. Tho Russian Government he, resolved to litanip
out the evils of bribery und speculation which have been largely responsible
for the unprecedented rise in prices. Ono of the largest flour speculators in
Moscow wus arrested! then followed tho urrests of IB highly placed flour spec
ulators r. Petrograd and two.Zemstvo councilors in Nizhni Novgorod who are
guilty of cornering" sugar and other necessaries. Further wholesale arrests are
expected. - ,
BULGAR PLOT IN MACEDONIA DISCLOSED
MILAN. Jan. 13. A telegram to the Gazzetta, del Popoio states that Un
accidental explosion of a bomb at Kllkish, in Greek Macedonia, caused the policy
to inspect certain Bulgarian houses. They discovered numerous bombs niM
evidence of a rising fixed for a day on which the Bulgarians enter Greek terri
tory. Bombs were also found In Bulgarian houses at Salonlca during o, s,earcl
made by the Allies,
GREECE RELEASES FLOUR FOR STARVING SERKt
ATHENS. Jon. 13. Upon iho urgent representations of the Awwtea
Minister, the Greek Government Una agreed to the Immediate release M It
sacks of flour belonging to the American ed Cross, destined for tho raUmt si
the Serbians. The flour was seized at Piraeus a week ago and unloaded, St fa
expected the charges for the unloading and for Btorage will b relmbur?
BUBONIC PLAGUE RAVAGES TURKS ALONG flGRIS
LONDON, Jan. IVTbe Official Press Bureau ga,ve out ih following wli
lesa, received hera tonight from RomeV "Buhoahr jdajue has iroks eat a,sn,
the Turkish forces in Mcscuvytamla.
NEWS
CKn.lU4.A4im jaf II a I
