7
"THE GLORY OF CONQUEST."
A great French etcher's powerful cartoon
on the crushing of Belgium.
IN THE SUN NEXT SUNDAY.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Rain and warmer to-davalsWr, with cold
wave, to-moMlw?.
Highest temperature ycsHjCjb 3oVlowest, 31.
In-tailed weather, iiiallMdffifMxinu(lFvii jiiiiv 15.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 135.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 1916. cowm, torn, bV u,r , prtnti ,,.,,;;,,, ,uSo,,mo...
WO CENTS.
VTA
GREAT TEUTON
FORCE BEGINS
SAL0N1CA DRIVE
jiOn.flOft Men Advance on Al
lied Army of 200.000
Hi? Guns at Work.
Saos; Water and Boiled CONSCRIPTION'S . 5. GEN CARRANZA
Potato a Meal for Germans FOESTHREATEN
TO SHUT MINES
People Urged to Be Satisfied With Such a Dinner
Powder Made From Ox Blood a Substitute for Meat
Teuton Press Alarmed by Food Shortage.
BAR MEETINGS TO DISCUSS LIVING COST
Workei-s May Vote lor a
Coal Strike That Would
Cripple Britain.
TO PUNISH SLA YERS OF 18 AMERICANS;
INTERVENTION IS CRY IN CONGRESS
,.r-
TRICOLOR HOISTED
OX K A .SKITS VILLA
;frii Cabtt tieipaleft to Tim 9ck.
Ir.ni.iN. via Amsterdam. Jan. IS.
Oeplte the assertions mnilo In the
Kelohstair that the Herman food supply
l ample nml starvation I Impossible the
prcs3 continues to print dcnl ils of the
authorities" assertions and sl Indlcn-
KrciH'li on (Jreek Island of!,l,,ns of tnc r increasing vim.h of
Mitnvi umsm uy wie urilirii uiocaauu.
The licrUurr Xcltuitg says:
"It Is dlfllcult to Imagine tint ihlnns
could Brow worse Jnt now without some
crowning disaster. The nv.ise. of the
people are huiinry all day long, many
articles of food having leached n irrlce
wholly beyond the reach of .he families
of the working class. 1 lunge:' renders
the people sullen and deprives them of
all Joy In victories, though all the bells
arc ringing and Hags wave. The chil
dren r underfed, pale and wan, look
ing like fading How ere.
Corfu Montenegro Now
Faces Serbia's Fate.
Special Cable Private to Tu ten.
rs, Jan 12. Despatches from
Rome riy that the Teutonic advance on
Monica was begun on Monday with a
ilelent bombardment In the Dorian rone.
T.lf attack I being developed, accord
lr; to the despatch, from Dorian. Ghev
rv.ll .md Monastlr. with a force of Ger-
pns, Austrian. Bulgarians and Turks ' , , ''Thc !,p ,'a" !',e
Iran., , Vaa ., I birth rate occupies the attention of the
ftlmated at oer t.na.00o men taking Government wan shown at the meeting
rrt. Opposed to these are said to bo t of the People's Welfare Association of
!OMO1 Prcnch and Hr!tlh troops, at
though It Is suggested thit some of the
rois withdrawn from Oalllpoll will
j-Mn in the defence.
The Austrian and Germans,
Athens message saj.. are attacklns the
f!ern end of the allied line, the Bui
Mrs are driving at the centre from
Gremtiell to Dorian, and the Turks, on
the X t-.tl-GuiuuhlJIna lallway. ate In
contact from the east
Ilcrlln, On that orcaslon a representa
tive of the Prussian Ministry "f the In
terior stated that the Government was
fully aware of the Importance of the
question In Its hearing on the futuie
an of the German nation. i-Mieclnlly In view
ef the fact that hundreds or tuouami
of young men ate being cut off In the
flower of their youth.
regard for .'mure need and possibilities,
"We have hcninc so accustomed to
our dally supp.y of bread and Hour that
there has arisen a tendency to assume
that theic Is no object In saving any
of It.
"When the bread cuds were Issued a
year ago they were Intertill d a a wain
Ing, as a means of ri-ir:ctltiK consump
tion. Too many people, however, came
SKCOXl) RKADIXti OK
BILL WIXS. 1:51 TOM
PROTECTION OR -WAR,
SENATE i
TELLSWILSON
Watchful Waitinjr" Policy
in .Mexico Is Bitterly
Assailed.
tptnat lablt UenpHtl, to Tnr. 9c.n.
t.ostiov. Jan. IS. Thc compulsory
to look upon the bread card as a voucher 1 tnltltnrv service bill parsed Its sccotnl
travagancv. especially tho.e p.oplc who, reading "" "f fommotts to-dnv
fond did not consist of hic.nl i'.o:n. n a vote of 431 to .10. The vvltlulriw.il
Some months ago million of housewives from tlu, opposition of the Irish Nn-
made It their ambition and pride to te- ,.,,,,. . frw .....iterltu ad- "
turn weekly as manv unused voucheis I" .7
of laelt- Ui.Md cards lo the authorltbs d.tlonal vote., made the difference In the ( li i- t A VV I,' I I I i
as they could. Tills modest and useful ' count fiom that of s03 to 10S on th- ....... t. j. i ....
IXTHIIVEXTIOX CIKiKl)
easy for the Individual and the cominu- I
tllff It, ll-lll .lt.,...l'lt., tt,n I 1
lative effect of It."
rlenttsts reU .N.'w tnodn.
.r , ...wKn " ' I , I , , dlvMon on the tlrft reading. i
be awakened, for economy of this kind I , . .i,i,,.-.i i
tlHIUUHVV.III-'lll VI Hit ..,111.11..".. .
the resignations of the three kilwr mem
ber. of thc Ministry was made to-day.
Meanwhile the scientists are continuing
their fforts to discover new foods.
The Itrrllner 7'n;jrln!( sa.v :
"A valuable new food has been pro
duced by Veterinary Surgeon Alois Wulz,
director of the municipal slaughter house
nt Graz. He has succeed" d III extracting
FRKXCH LAND OS' CORFU.
Tflle Itoportniit 1'iiliits on GrrfU
Istiiml, s,nM Altii'ii llrsintli.
((rial Cable Hciptilcti to The Scn.
These are Arthur Henderson, president
of the Hoard of Kducatloni William
llrace. Parliamentary I'ndcr Se-retar'
for Home Affairs, and George 11,
Itobett. 1-ord Commissioner of the
Tieasurv.
It Is understood that the I.alr Min
isters will defer definite action until
from os blood Its albumen In such a after a general meeting oi ni uiwr ppeeche
manner that both the odor and taste of pariy ai nwiui
the blood are entlrelv removed. vvhole uuestlon of compul-lon Is ti b;
The r.suli Is a n.aise Vfllowi.li t.on . thieshed out by the party at the seiiera!
der which hay been tesPd umler the meeting.
name of haematalb lu the liosplt,,) at Piemler Asqnlth had hoped Oiat the
Oral!. In soup kitchens and elsewhere It b'll might mss Its jevond leading by
t has proved an evellent tibstltute for a-ent, nut tile em.rt rniieu. in a sta:e-
chicken, llaematalb Is oluble in water ""-"t prell:nluary to ine .livisioit ne an
Mustn't lllaenss Cost nf l.lvlim. and Is eciually adapted for prparatloiM mtl'd that unless t,
"In the meantime we are Informed vermicelli and macaroni a In pastry,
that the mllltarv authorities have fl)r- 't also yl. ld. at, admirable b. er ley "
bidden mtetlngc convened to discuss the v Zv7pTVJ t 7TV
high cost of living" j hi LU Sd r Oh til Ahl I 1 .
Voruarrla. .be Socialist paper, volccr.
a strong ptotcst agalntt tae attitude ii.tii,, heoloulun u liermnn
of officials who continue to exhort the
poor to ceonom'ze. 1
" For the midday meal." Vortwrrs Sptcial Vablt ltpatch to Tin Scn.
stys. one must not arrange uiawers London, Jan. l..--Tlie I.oimIoii Mitr.
bill Is ti.ls-.ed
lln.'land nnnot fulfil her duty t her
allies.
liners Tlirrnttii IrlU.'.
The I. lost ?ei Ion move jet .outeui
plated in imposition to '"onscriptl'in was
iiatb' li Hie iecutive committee of th
Miner Federation, the strongest union
In the I'nited Kingdom, to-daj, when bv
a vole of two to one It decided to sub
mit In a referendum of the miner
WmnvcTON, Jan. U'.-Tlie latest
Mexican outrage upon American life
led to the sharpest debate that has yet
taken place In t'ongress on the Presi
dent's policy of "watchful waiting."
Senator Gulllngcr of New H imp
slilre and Itor.ih of Idaho In spirl'ed
'ein.inded that Aliiiricin
lives Is- pinlccted even If this loiintry
had to go to war. Senator Stone
chairman of the Foreign nidation
Commltiei'. defended the Admlnlsira- J
tlon.
A fe'o'ution was Introduied in the
Senate calling for Intervention b the
I'nited States mid tin- Latin American
loiintrle.s if I'iirranz.i failed now ti
furni"h iideiiiate jirotecllon. A reso
lution along similar line. vvh pre
sented in the House.
TEXT OF NOTE TO CARRANZA
URGING CAPTURE OF BANDITS
VI. IN '!'l't, . .in, pj. Tin t I' iif tin null In Hin. Cn mi n :n, mil
lliinuilli I ullnl Stole Cmiiiit tl lliliiiiii nt i.iiirii linn, fmi tint
Inj Si rirlili'll l.iniHiiiji, Jnllmi ,'
CONSUL JOHN R. SILMMAN:
On Juitunry 10 C. R. Wntscn, ctiuirmutt of the Mine ami Smelter
Opcriitor.s Association of Chihuahua nml general munnKer of the Cusi
htiirinchic Mining Company, with fifteen of his associates, nil reprc
hcntativc Americans, while en route from Chihuahua to their mines at
Cusilniirinchic, were tuken off thc train forty miles vct of Chihuahua
city by bandits operating uivlcr thu (liroction of (Jen. Villa, stripped
naked and dclibcrntcly shot and killed. Thmr liodic. arc heinu brotiuhl
to Kl Paso.
It is stated these men were murdered because they were Ameri
cans and were killed in accordance with thc general policy publicly
announced recently by Villa. This atrocious act oi'ccurred within a
few miles of Chihuahua city, in territory announced to be in control
of thc Cnrrnnza forces.
Thc Villa bonds roaming about in western Chihuahua publicly
threaten all Americans with death and destruction of their property.
Following the occupation of Chihuahua by Obrcgon's forces many
Americans returned to Chihuahua to resume operations with thc con
sent of the military authorities of the dc facto (iovernment.
Urgently bring the foregoing to thc attention of Gen. Cnrranza
and request that he order immediate efficient pursuit, cupture and
punishment of the perpetrators of the dastardly crime above men
tioned; also strongly urge thc immediate despatch of adequate forces
to the various mining camps in the State of Chihuahua,
Request to be informed of action taken. LANSING.
Lansing Sends Xole De
nouncing Bandits' "Das
tardly Crime."
SKt'HKTA If V TKLLS OF
WAIIXIXC AM K1UCAXS
Armed Action in Southern
Republic Not Thought
Of by Wilson.
XO OKDKliS CIVKX TO
THE XAVV OK A KM V
lionili Calls President's
Policy I n-American and
Side-Stepping.
l.o.. .. Jan. I'J. "nil. ;:ilv Moil's accoidlng to Ills wj.h. taste or habit, but nil(f 7Iih-.s print extracts from recent resolution for a national strike again
A- in orresiMndent repot Is th.t French must .elect t hose foods which are inest ,.,
, , , , . , , , , cheaply obtained. He tnus'.n t eat red f t,P
i.in "eiinons. nr. se, in rg. prufe. r
..v.a-...u. nlolno.l tie tno!.rtrt eat red ..r i,u..i...... ... ,i,. I'nlt rklti- nf 1.,i,
fwi have landed on the Greek Island ci.tuj-e If 'preen cabbage I essentially sal.l In one of these
of iVrfti nnd occupied various Impor- cheapor. You aren't to stiffen jourself 'Geimnny. In killing her enemlc itm
Ur.t iKimts. with belly cuts of pork If It Is cheaper Invading their terrltotles, Is slmplj p-v-
tw,. i.v a, m ... I.., 1.--.. i..,IUir.l r,.i., in eui sour liui.ui'es. i.uni-i i lormilic a worK oi coaruj. oi-iumih
the K ner' villa, Achllblon. Serbian
and dear. Cheap lard Is not to be had. loves the other nations and Is piinlhi.i!:
"Grumbling wont rclp. ion must them foi their own good
uun l.t are now housed there. think things out and make endM meet. Pastor Phlllppl of Berlin ald:
The Ministers of lite allied Poweis at You are advised to hold over water In "a, the Almighty allowed His Son to
tn..,,. e,v.. I,iitnl..il ii time in the I'.ioel; vvnicn sausages ne Km imiru, ntt.n. i,e oiiicineo lo reueem uihmrmmi so v,er
the enforcement of the mllll.it j service
' 111. Sue i a trlke would mean the
crippling of the British lleet, munitions
factoilei and lait.'o.uls.
Together with news of thl action came
word that the Wi Ish Federation of I'oal
Pirn iff (inllliiKPr.
Tie debate In the Senate henan iM-r
Senator Sherman Intiodtieed hi rejoin
tl in calling on the Goverumci.t to de
mand that t'airanza give ossurance. to
protect Ann-, lean life and -property and
In th" event of I'.itranza's failure to fur-
..i.. .i .,.. ,....,,.i decr bed ns an extraordinarily nutrl
itasthe.leardutj of h.miaiilty lo trans- tlous fluid, rich Hi fat This lluld with
K.ti ... i as oossible i.art of the P'aln tsill. d potatoes Is enough for an
erhuii army to a point neai the Al
uiiwn l,v .i vote of H2 to f.3. li:ul ntali such tirotectloti to Intervene The
adopted a resolution tn favor of a walk- ,,erniin re-olutlon had no sooner been
i,e.f I''lhil." o - '-'n !!:'"-.'-
becomes law. ami Unit a resolution ion- mlltee tbsn .senator (.aiunger, iiepuo-
entire meal.
"One must break the habit of eating
btead, butter and siunge for supper.
If more cabbage or sauu kraut Is cookul
frtr .tinner th.in l reoUlleil .ll.lt W'lllcll
I left over wanned up and served with I wicked. Satan blinsel'
n steaming, mealy potato tastes bettc. Mnto the world In
than fresh boiled ! must be crushed."
"Working women mil! learn to r:u- - - --
... . .......... n-.,tm rf, rrtwT.r"-F'ri
.v.ers go on to say that they uo late tnings not accoiumg 10 ineir wisne , v jll 1 IfkiV.'li iv. r. U
i.i.,. Gteece will object lo the but according to the mean at their i
liiilsii .oast.
The 'inte nets foith Hint this step is
Uktn ii' otdet to save these heroic eol
u.trs roin famine and deslriittlon," end
i.ui 'he Island of Corfu has been chosen
r 'h.- .ji'te as olfurlng the neiessary
u ' iiom tlie point of view of snii-
..v uiod supply
T
many I destined to crucify humanity to ilemnlng conscription had been passed !jC;in, aiose nnd read the following teie-
bj So tth Wales iM.ii Miners in Lardirr Rr()m (,iat hai, ,,,, ,,. mluJ bv bun
' Pndi r Seeretarj of War Tennant. m
expl.iiial.on of the ined of cotiscriptlon
secure Its salvation
"It I because we .lie pure that we
wete chosen by the Almighty to be 111-
Instruments to slaj the sinful nations
It Is the duty of German solilleis to
strike without me
destroy. Half
Sole Survivor Describes
Massacre of Americans
Holmes Arrives at El Paso With Story of Shooting and
His Escape Foreign Colony of Chihuahua Flees
to Border Guarded by Carranzistas.
NUMBER OF VICTIMS IS PLACED NOW AT IS
erej. to Ji til. burn and the infm
nieani S would be ,.r , ,.t
ilinscl''J,jJlio ha mine ,u, ,ull .
the .ftiftii of Ihiglaud. ,Uu i.,..
tn,l '.lie House that 'he Br'tlsh losses In
nlij .01 all front averaged 1.,
molithlj. These, lie explained
count for soldiers rtdleved fio-n
lulv beiMllse of wound who weie ,,ti,e
later to return to sen b e
Dillon Wltlntrnus (liiiilllin.
from Keetie. N. II '
Wl.rte t my "in Thomas It
Holms, sole survivor .'f leeetit Me.
Iran oiitngi" Pie ie do eveij thing
lio'sible to locate him.
1 1.. W. H'll.MKS.
"I simplv lead thl message." added
Senator Galllnser. "to show that the
horrible outran' teceiitly committed In
M-v...., wort'-.v of the a. tent. on no:
ur hi. -a l aoster of the Serbs, who are dlMus.il'
Jn' .. . of Greece and who will only The olllcial Wolff Bureau recentlj sent
rr a ,i short time on the Island. The out manlftstos urging Hie people to
nine .'.'.iidi... avoid wastefulnes in tho ue of rtour
T . i- io Intel tloi, at occupation, biead. Comnienlitu on this the
II km iiaraiitee have been given un- font, the Conservative oigan. saj :
r i -. head t th" Greek Government, "The announcement of the Wolff Hu-
mm m .ruing rorfu and oilier parts ,,, lu ay siH'dal emphasis on the wate
' territory which the allied 0f flour, pointing out that In ret ent weeks
ne- 'use had lo use" It ),.B hecome common In the agrlcul-
T . thfi conespomlent of the tur,i ,Untrlcts to make up limit Into
h on. f sajs. foodstuffs for pigs and cows It cannot
', ei v ii.is vlgurouslj protested l)t jmimcd out lu language too strong
c 'he occupation if roifii. It Is ,ndt suci, n-astage at a time when we
i" u . .d. howev. r, thai Greece will .(ll nB)-itlnR for our very exlstetuo Is a
i, a j other action." crime agi.nst the fatherland.
ttncl.s un lilllser ill ln lleet-
InKs I" GerinaiiJ lleporleil.
Paius. Jan. 12--The .1nini pr.irs
tb: nioiiung leporl from a Swiss busi
nes man who li i Jut relurned from
lli l in, in i unta'.iiitig lnfoiniation of a
threatened levolut.uu .li Germanj. M.is
meeting. hj the Uofiii'j, luforniant, al
which violent att.ck are launched
agalnsl Hie Kaiser and the I'niwn
Pi luce, ate being continually held
Some meeting ale attend' d bv as
mam a l."..nui people M night
much pr'.nleil matter dein Hiding peue
and niak ng llmk on the Government
i distributed In Berlin
only of the emigre of the Pnlled States
but of th" eecut!ve department of the
Premier Asiiillh's plan for a utiauh
minis vote was fuillieled liv llle all'
.,.,. ...e,e,.,,t tlutt .lolin Illllo!). olle iif llihl i,o,ua ji.,teM oh w el'
Senator Gallmger ttieti lean in' -
ihlch hi had lecelVtrl l-.oui me
PI. I' IM. l et.. Jim. in i l'Iinrsilaj I.
'.' t. Jl Word was received here earlj
lo.ilaj that Hurt Kramer, son of an
American ranch owner In the (Inerrero
district. IIKI miles from the scene of the
recent massacre of mcrli'iin. was
killed In luinillts jestrnliij.
I"i !'.. .Ian 12 -Kscor'ed In a
guarl of 100 i an ati7.is.ta soldlets, vli
tually tin ... ittro lorelyn colon.v of I'lil
l ualiiia !. I'xjiecled lien- some time to
night on the train that is brlng'n:,1 lh"
bodies of the Amerli an. bot on Motiduy
bj Vlllit:is.
r'ltl7ens held a mass meeting in I'ltve-
1 md Miliar, tin evening, alter
tie .i.in Tliete I '.a tinner th' Inn',
for half an hour and licunl shots by
"'S. twin aim thr es
"I did not hear any ott of gtoans ot
jells or tries fiom our Americans Then
1 ortimied further umler th" bank
wa ling the t 'am pait of ihe t me. uii
' ; I tei he,l a p dm ii"obahi) 2"n vanis
f "tn t'ie train Then I teiailii"d half
-I tli'c -iiuiiiter if an hour 1. 'el
afltr g i.'i.' to -evttal ranches and pn'l;
li.u mj waj e iiillousiy foi -eveial mil'
I met un with all unknown ,teli in.
who dileet.'d ine to Cnibualiun ilty. I
iva bed I'liitni.ihiia city Tuesday mori
i.g al a bout T ..lu."
About twet'lj bandits attacked tin
1 1 din, I' was ald. while wete
wulcb Ki'miP"d a a rece a', ore side of 'he
Irish Nationalists InltetH npioei to
con- r i : on. would accept Mr. lied
nu lid's decision a d withdrviw his op
p.,.'in!i He suited that if all the lrlb
party and half the Liberal- had re
naliieil with him he never wou'il have
lidded
"' 'otin'rlptlon.' be f.ild. "has lain like
a wet blanket over recruiting in Ire
land, but If the advice of the ltlh part.v
Is taken I can asuie jou after the war
I let i ml will have no cause to be ashamed
of the pat: she has played Ireland
.inrt
State Iiep:irltnent :
M. Holme Is ,u I'ti.liuahita A pe
.ml train has goto from HI I'aeo to
li-ing in the bodies and he will pro'i
atilv return op that tuiln to I'd Pao
tO'tnuill.
Wiil.hfol WiiIIIiih Over.
i want to mid a single word.
Senator G.iMnsci.
tii'j marched to the International line
t await the tiatn.
.Meige Iiom I'lilbuahiia "tiled lint
' I'labclsio Villa led the munleiers. Some
, here believe tll.it befote executing III.
I threat t. kill all American and foi
' iiigners h" eiptuie Villi placed hi fam
ily s.irely in Havana, fearing rtpilsals
on tl'.ein If they remained In the Putted
Si lie.
Tne deilaratKiti that V."a b'd the
billdlts was lint but lie mil lij the state
.nent of Tlin't.a It Ilol'iies. the only
Ametl att lo Hi-.itie the irassacr . lie
lint tin. uce of flour In the country
1' ( i i.urc of the Kaiser's villa on ,lu,iei tu not the only Indication of n j
Cc ii li In Miles to prevent the po- n.r.i iMXity n the ue of the means TlIK Sin printed yesteiday morning
of subsistence nt our disposal a n-glect a despatch from .iiii.'b wlilili tolil or
term my.
.shn.eiit of a German or Am
,' - .iiiiiarine base there wap an
r.y i . . i j. itne day s ago
of suhslletice at our uispusui a ie .ii.-vi n ,,. -
of the duty Incumbent upon everyludy I word btoiighi b travellers of tl
to u-e food of eveiy k'r.d with strict lion or a i mini, can pany nine
Most kxicgro a skrbia ?
I.us ,,r V, l.ovccn I'ureslinilmv
I rusliiiiu of Aiillmi,
u' Cable Otipatch to Tub Six
1J. Thc capture
I.
an IJ. tne capture oi
11 ' i.i.v . ti Is admitted here to be
.jicu suiew- foi Austria and
-t.,,1. m, tiiic,. to Italy. Military ex
it 's ,ig that Montenegro faces a
i ,ir tnat of Serbia and Bel-
'l
U-l
T
m
c
r ,
u
r
M t'enegiius ale known as gal-,
K r It Is extremely doubtful,
whetnei they will be able to
ei, von Koevees's overwhelming
- n men and guns. As In the
' . rlila, It Is llesh and blood
sleel.
te' despatches reteived here
i i ' Montenegrins am despalr--.
i.i; I'ettlnje, the cap.tal, and
a , i ve have been hurriedly
The . hlef danger lie In the
' Mono Lnvcn comma nils Cat
tne Ail-trlaiis wdl now be
"irn into a very strong naval
ins upsetting the entire balance
n the Adriatic,
vjsinan War Otllie issued the
i U iteiueut to-night :
' ".negro we captured the
and northwest of llusjak
' .t of Ottlrje.
' g over .Mount l.ovcen we
I i in- enemj across the Nle-
inl of tiashnvac we captured
i .ili ,g heights nnd the
n 'Jrahnvo. The guns cap
. n iw total forty-two.
' er the heights southward
i e and repelled remnants of
',- hum llii.iin.
- w.itiilng lias laen sounded
1 ' .1-11.. ..f Villa,. The
., iied the (Jinidruple Kn
,i:irdonible negligence In not
i I'melv aid to the Monte
Piotecting this most vital
Mount l.ovcen.
- cms ale expected lo Invade
front all sides, both n.v lanu
BIG ZEPPELIN RAID NEAR,
'AVIATOR WARNS LONDON
Officer Who Quit Air Service Says Germans Are Plan
ning Sweeping Attack Giant Aeroplanes, Built
for Distance, to Drop Explosives.
d
tu t'ie erie, : tnai :i
I with Gteat Britain In tlie desire tn (e, tn to me. in v.ew oi ime e,n. tn;it i,n,i, uip. z w.i ine man mm
in.iliilalii aileiiuate numbert for the outrage, the time for 'watchful watttnK d.d the killing
.,.. , Mexican alfali ha cea-.il 'and that
Mr inllon mule I. rlear. however, our Government should take sununavj
that lie I still heart and oiil against me in lo vroteet the live of Amei loin
the principle of conscription ,'tiren in that III fated country.
"I am convinced," he exclaimed, "th it At thl Set.ntor Stone, chairman of the
the campaign for the "impulsion bill I Pur. ten llelallons Committee. aroe and
p.ut and parcel of a ,-onspiiaej to Ice,)!; Ka,i
Hie Government anil unsi:iuie .nuiier
llolioe lleserlbes slioiitlou.
tlulu uf -vav
ruvals l .ini I'hlhi'ihua city "aid H at
a troop train uf twenty cars, conveying
'i. tween .Mill ami 1 .mm I'arrarzn troop-,
bod pnceiled the mining cotiiiMtiy pee' il
bv -ile'tlt tl'iein tniiiu e- Tile engine
md two '.its of ibis tram vvre said
to nave 1 en der.i.led by the bandits in
o. der to si.ip the pas- nger train of
Auu'.lciti What became ' th, I'ar-
1III7..I S'dll.eis, if tll"l V'e.'e III llle III li-
"liv train . uld lot be leorned here.
Th, u un bi .ilng t ae tiodie of
eig.itec'i Amenc.llls blltcheti'd bj Mex'.
inn on Mi. inlay afltrnoon left i'hi
huahu.i Ibis nfteriiiM.it lor Kl Paso
.Iti.ircK olllcl ii. .uriiued to fiiimeh a
mitltiity iscoit to the Inlet nation, il l.tn
in saje P'otn II Slevein-on and Will-
I'ollowing Is th" statement of Holme u n ,'n gley. ,vho weni doivn catly ibis
WtsiiiNi.niN. .I.iil. IS. The inuider
ol eiglUi''n Aitieiiiiiiis by Mexican
bandits lp tenit-'i'v i .uitt oll' d oy Car
iuitx.1 ha .ipiiai'cinly brought tlm
Mexican siliiatioll acutely before Con
grisf un. I tho ("iinlrv ng'n.
.M'tilb rs' of I 'utiLi s who have te
ma. tied -ib'tit r.u t! o list two years
uiMler tne j ...It. y of "w atiiii'ul wait
ing" Hi ivv aside nil roctrnlnt to-day
and ilimar.dnl prutcc-inui tor Atiicrltaii
li i s nnd 1 1 1 , i. t iy.
Senalots iidliutteil opetilv on llm
Hour that tilt y fuvur Inti'.'Veiitlon nml
war If ilit was the only way In wiiii.li
Aimiiciin citizen. could be given the
proiectiotv to which they were entitled
in M"l.-o
Two riiiii;loiis were Introduced,
one In the Senate calling for Interven
tion In the i vent of I'arranza being
unable lo furnish ineiH.ite protection
for iitlz'tis of Hie I'n. I'll State., nnd
the m her In tin- llou. i-ii.ling on the
Ptesiilcnt itif.it tn i.'i in gross whether
or nut :n h, oi!nlon ihe tunc had
come to discoid "rv.iliiil'ul waiting"
ai d take nihil- .sic). fur the safe
fiua.diiig .if Aineii. an litis in Mrxlcu.
VV II I'ollc, V.vnlleil.
The Pirflileiit's Mi Mien peil.iy wa
bitterly iitinck. d ! i the Senate', lielng
desiiilie i by Sennti'i' lior.ih as "a side
stepping, lonipfininv.rig. pi ui t.istliin:
ing, apologising. un-American policy."
The AdltliuStrn:1. II ami S.ate Iti
p.il'tltu nt nllli'iols i-ulliul iiiwlldered
by the Mnlib n t.nn In the Mexican
situation itid v. it- pla.p'.y nnxloii.
over 'ho ife,t of the incident upon
lie .Unclean public inward the t'ar
intix.i G. liiiineiit.
I'potl the teielpl of the colllll Illation
of tho iu'is,icro the Siate I icparttticuc
Milt rcpi "setttutlotis :,, I'arratiz.i "re
iUe.Iliu" him lu orilir the ItumedliitH
State liep.utment to-
Irril. Prusslanlel control. I do Hot be
Ileie that the authors of Hie campaign
will test until tiev have driven Asipiitii
ie Senator from New II unpshire
savs he think the time ha mine when
tlie pol'cv of 'watchful waiting' should
end and' that some alllrmallve steps
Kitchener nnd Gtev out of the Govern- i,ould be lal to protect the live or
liner run t.Zell in .iiexii o ,i unei
ir .
rr, .
t .
J. ..t
t ii
n. B .
t .
ef I.,
t .
"us. ,
'nit.
'isl k.
"ifr i .
Ms t'nn
T-. ,
M.,i . .
inl
Spenal Cable Unpaid, lo Till. Six.
Uinpon, Ian. 12. The Daily
jilves prominence this morning to an ar
tide signed by Snuadron Comimindei
Billing, "ho saj.i he resianed hl com
mission In thu nnvai ah- Mtvice for the
purpo.-e ot advocating mote elliclent de
fence of London against impending alt
raids.
The w titer averts that the Germans
are at lively preparing for a raid on a
most e.t.nnve death dealing scale, com
pared with which all the previous raid.
were child's play.
Contrary to the general 11"; '
says, "It I not Zepwllns alone that th s
country will have to meet.
completing larse numbers of bom drn ,.
ulng aeroplanes capable of cat ry Ing big
had of missiles enormous distances.
These obviously are Intended to be used
aialmt Kngland. and probably aualnl
I'Tho"vvrl.er ks : "Has the Govern
tnent taken sleps to meet this peril .'
i.i. Miiestlon liy saylug:
"Tho aerial defence of Umdim has
been neglected from the
Sriuadron Commander "
candidate for election to . he o ot
Commons from ' "-""""..,",,,,
lie is riniioiiR
feme against the Geiinan air ra.ders.
Hurilig the month of lieceuiber tliete
were twelve separate attempts by .ep.
pelln to teach London Prom two to
four Zeppellnii paillclpated lu each at
tempt inirltig the month of November
there were several other attempts, Bui
lu no case were the German dirigible
able to reach even the outskirts of
London.
"Three Zeppelins to my knowledge,
were desttoyed during liecember by the
British defenders (Ine of Hie big dirig
ible". was btought down bv shots fiom
a warship anchored In an Hngllsh har
bor. The oilier two were destroyed by
merit '
Prem'i r iiltii HX'e for a Ileal plei
in favor of the bill after S'r John Simon
hail made the las' appeal fur the bill
iiplinent The Premier lefetted nt once
to the fi-.ir of labor that the hill would
lead to It'dustilal conipiilsloii ami thit
employ els would be able to illmi- oh
noxious employees and compel them to
become sullllets He explained that til"
Government wuild Inltoliice an ann'id
mem .ihlch would safesii.ud th.. point
xminllli I rllccred.
the Seti'itor object to inrorniing in
Senate and the couutrv Jut what he
think our Government should do in
that bei ilf "
"A little tune ago.'' repl.ed Ml ii.il
llngei . "Hi" couutrv wa thrown almost
.niu convulsion from the faci that a
single American litUen had lot h.s life
thioiigh Hie totpeilolng of a foreign
ship and thcte wa ser.oiis talk tint
our Government ought to seek repara
tion for the life of Hut eltlren. That
numb, r ha been multiplied by seven-
i,, xteti.'n .iilded to the hiiudreil
"I believe." lie added, "Hint when the )if otl),,,.', w, uVi previuush been
ir vlloti of lb" bill are fully realized l1.llll.ilt,.ri.l In that unfortunate coun-
lllld till' people Ulliiersianu inn every
suggest'ou and i oinpliilnt will be care
fully listened to. we shall have some,
ih'i'i: like general nsseiii. I hope that
the hill will pa without dissent Cer
tainly no more effective blow could be
sttiick for the success of our aim"
"Tiete has been an Immense amount
of ni'Monceiitlon mid misunderstanding
try.
"Now the distinguished Senator fiom
M'esouil ii"' i hali m in of the r uimltte
on I'otelgn delations dealing with tins
important subject, asks me what I
would recommend eir what I would do.
I'lrsl lleiiiiiml Bein nil loo,
i will say that iiiasmuch
Hie
President of tlie Piiited Slate has lee-ucnlii-il
Ml Cairun.a us ihe innstltu-
nine sect or. ntlil i l l..-es legai-inui
llrltisli aeioplanes The general opinion n,,. nnrsib'lltl'ss of tli' bill." continued
niliong in in l ii I - lli'O ill I. "Ml ill' I is llllli . I'retulel nonie irinne rik.iio u lie - ,.f , , Xlevlein Govettl-
London I I'omparatlvely safe from air',, steo toward uitlvetH.il conscription, or """',. ,' ,.. ,,, ,.,.,., t i,i ,i...
raid ,,s a f,n in and 'n.slrument of Industrial ,. ,,, ,1.,,.1ii
, , Ol.lllll in "' ..... .-, -..
compulsion.
london
defence'
ticket
' il '.ill .III Slues, ifilli u, i.".. nmsTIXT A I rinfp
le preparing at once to at- r nMIMN AIRMLN ALbKl .
I .1... ....u, ' VI'-
' WHS ARRVST 8 FRENCH. ,,r
"'Inllule fur selmirc of l.'nnauli all
W, II. Vincent full llefrneen
.uVouatr I a lluld" PheeUeil.
T-)r W H. Vincent of the British
". .. .....11....1 cnrni who iirrlveil ye'H-
s" ; thlnkH London'H present aerial
Am. i., i.i i.,,n, il',ihmi,n eU iwienimte to cope with any
'if ms , iinni.i,. n,.v.. i...,. nrreateil bv ' n ..iiueli. During December, he
Rilel twelve miciiii''6'
milseil with the Iohh of three German
Ulrcraft. the British flee of er1aneH
in. i ,
n-i.ns.il fur the seizure of
1 " uis of the Central Powers In
Mom.., tle American Legation here
a ,,,U to-day by the American
Am,'-i"snlor to Turkey, Henry Mor
t'nthau Mr lirnppers, the American Minister
Continual on Fourth Page.
J,. i.!e to handle the Invaderii
'The real reason why Zeppelins have
nnt been able to bombard Mndon or Its
burbs mce October M last." aald Dr.
Vincent, "! because the British have es
taullsbel elaborate and efficient de-
Nevettheless the British have taken
elaborate pri'caiitlous to guard against
a possible raid, Thu actual damage
which might be caused by bombs fiom
Zeppelins Is not feared nearly as much
as the possibility of a general I'oiitlagra
Hon. To pieveul lids the Loudon Pile
Peparlni'lit lias hem brought to a high
Mate of elllc'eney and lu addition volun
teer (Ire companies have been orKnnl7iil
III all of the sublllbs.
'In Hie same manner medical divisions
have been oi yalilzril In and about Lon
don. All of this territory has been di
vided Into small il'stiiets, wilh a medical
staff, In charge of a chief, In each one.
Should a fleet of Zeppelins approach diiu
geiously near London al) Ihe lire depart
ments and medical staffs would receive
an alarm within a few moments,
"Patrol of Ihe lire departments ate
on the lookout for Incendiary bomb
l acsiiie "mi tliete i nothing further
fiom the Intention of the trainers of
the bill that' that II be used for any
such putpiies. I hope tlie in-tubers of
Ihe House and the mas of our countiy
men will accept that aisuranee.
"Tlie i Internment lertalnlv has no
intention of furnishing, even indli cctly .
It'in' eniploycis or employ ex" with new
iiiininmltl ni lo be exini!ed not in the
defence of lb" routitiv bill 111 pursuit of
rendiicd Impossible."
The debate was closed b Mr Hen
ilersun hi a much applauded speech. He
sild II wa a groit satlsfaiilon to hlin
Hint because of .lellnlle nsnii , mres given
his fi'lends and himself by the Premier,
and the medical divisions ate ready lo In the name of the whole Cabinet, he
move, Much chief him a list of atilotno- wan abb- to remain for lie present n
biles which he can commandeer at an Hi'' coalition Ministry . He closed with
Instant's notice. Many of these are so 1 thl statement :
II. I ' Hie nu, in , . ui i ... i i i i 1 1 ,-1 1,-1
such as our country might see lit to
demand "h"ii!il e mailt- in v ten ot tills
tihunian slaughter of Xmeiicaii citizens,
and if Ml t'ariauza admitted Ills In
ihllltv t protect elllcn In Mexho if
1 weie the President of Hie I'niteil
Stalls I would ask Congiess seiloilly
lo cone tier the iiic.tion as In what was
the further tint of the Hxecutlve in
,i matter of litis Kind, That Is what I
would tin,"
Senator Galllnger was no more than In
Inlernes lne Imliistrl'il struggle. i ,o his seat than Sen itor lioiah of Idaho,
iloveiiini"iit Is now engaged in devising n Republican and a member of the por
ne in wi.eielo niiv such thing will be ei,ii Itelalloii I 'oinmll tee, wan on hi
feel
as glvnt to Hi
night :
"niir trail left I'lnliiiahila cuv Moil
d.iv morning. January 1", at annul II
o'cloi k The train was stopped at ol
.illicit the It. inch lt,u .i. a po.nt admit
live tulles w,s! of Santa Vabel, be
t weiti 1 an and " o'clock that alter
noon While the tialn wa standing
at the station of Santa Ysabel two
aimed Mexican rode by and scruti
nized tin li.iln
"The Mextcm pa-i'i iwn-rs al S'liila
Ysabel told me aftei ward that the filler
bad irniuiied if there wete any solilleis
on the tialn
"At the point of the tr.asane our
train vvh "tepped In a cut si. th. t the
las! cat na Jut lnhle of the cut Wi
Mt'le slapped by another Until. 1 ' flout
Innk.s "f one of the coal car or win. li
w.n si en to te off the Hack iin was
the Hist w.. knew of a tialn preiedtig
ui Tut ie a nobody lo be en a roil n I
the fain ii fiout.
"When "in tram was slopped New
man and I were sitting together, anil
I'.vnti came up nnd Linked mil "f our
window. I'.v.in. Ncwiiinli. Maiilatt.ii
and I then got off the tram Watson
was either getting off or about tn ib
so behind u when I looked Kicn and
siw lilin.
"Jut aflct allghtiiig I lit aid a vnl
ley of title -hots from u point on the
other side of the cut and Jul alsive
the train Looking aiouiiil 1 could see
i bunch of aboul twelve or llll.-e i men
Handing In a solid line. hniilih r lo
shoulder, shooting directu ai us Tnev
weio Ilfly or seventy-live feet awaj.
1 I civ Cut Off by touch.
'"Pne coaill cut off IIIJ View. n I
coiilil not ce how many other bandit
it Pete were Tile depth of the cut on
tin sid" near Simla Yi'be Itner at tint
point was about two feet i Mi the other
.-hie It wa miliii gieater To the tear
of th Haiti was an "tnbankmi ul de
clining tmvani Hie livei
"Watson after getting off ran tow. ml
the liter Miicllalton ami 1 lollowed
moiii.,1 tn Cuhu. iiiua o i i special tialn liilisiin, upline anil iiinliint,ut of
to -et the o-.d'e, ..ad lighten boiliis ,,, ,f ra ,,w ,,f ,ie "ilast.irdlv
were t., Ing i.riug.ii up, The levised
1st .,f t.i- .bad l-ucs the nam... for rlnie nml "slrongly itilng" better
elghteill ptl.'.eition tof foi "igtli 1 s III til" millllU
lulsttlct .,f I'liiliuahii.t.
It VV VT-.iN kciipm nii.i.iii,i i'i-I
.VI lllll.l.' 1 -111)1 iliv
V I ' W Vl.l.V'i! llssit;ini eti.r.ii
t . S. -1
II ' II Si:.Mll.l.. siltierlllteu.lein
I' '1 l'. VN." :nte'eepi.
ril.vitl.i: I'ltixiii.i;, .t.iiei,.,''!,"
Jl VI Itlf: vHi:i;siiN, , trl,
I! I' Mi II VT'l'l IN. stemmraiuiei
V l lll l H
vi.i: ii i i.
til tin. I vv vni I'.nai
i: I. in mi n.-i is
ii vv xi:umx
lull :Mi:(.J miik n' rilllll
V l.un- i
Till l V Il III Xi IX , l,.- .
w u ii: v itti: ,iiriiiiii,in
M .mm: i -in, i.in
It II HI. !v .-.I.VIllX-I
V VVii.iS
I I" VI ri it .'li .. , li II p.
Vl.K . -
111 III
,1.11 1
I fuel
l.ur'.hr In th" dav Set r. '.ufy l,m
sitig IsMtctl a stall nu nt whtc-h, lluniuh
refitiliu tu tlie n t ii t- 1 1-1 of the Annr
Uaii.s a.s n "dastardly outrage," laid
partial tiliune on the victims them
.."Ivcs a lilting disregarded warning
to keep out of the territory .11 which
the Vllllftn bandits me nperatltlg.
VICT0MN0 HUERTA
AT POINT OF DEATH
Conscious. Inil Slowh
in:.', nnd l.iist Kites Arc
Atliiiiiiistt'ioil.
Iltlnl Issue Piissporl.
Seiletary l.i'u.ng dciucil that Un
Slate Department bad ulitaineil sile
iiitiiluct for tne Atnerlcan.-i o had
l.-siieil pi.sspnus 1.1 tlieiii Ncvcfllie
It ill I'll' I'.-pn st iilatiiiii In i'ati'alli..i
lie laid trevs "H t In- r.u" that suite the
occupation of Cliilnr. ihua Stale by th
r.iiiairi fiiices many Amctlc.ins hail
returned theto "with tho tonseiit uf
ihe mllltarv- iiiithiuillc of the d
fai to Gov it nmeiil "
Accorains tn the Sei I etat y , i! still
Mlllv- ri mains m be .b-tci inliicd whether the
Kl. Paso. Tex., .Ian IJ -Hill Vtctorl
alio Illicit, 1 is living. Ins ph.v sliiaii n.
sell. Till aflc.tioon the Met. Father
I'ailos M. Miner was stiu tiuui i hy the
family to .nluiinisliT' the last tltes to the
fotnii'f prov islicia' I'liel.lcnt of Mexico, as to tin" i.atu
i'arr.in,..i iiulluu-.tlc illd their ru 1
duty In afford. tig mcisuns of protec
tloii to Hie Americans who were
slaughtered and whether in viuvv of
lie piibl'clv piiiiialineil Intentions of
Villa t" kil all inerlciii they should
lutve furnished 11 guard fr the' train
on which thc massacred men vvcrn
iraveliiiu!.
In til's inline, t ni there developed .1
miiilict ol si iiemeni il ihe liepirlment
f the ri it c-eniatlons
ei, Cimliir fimii Veve 1 l.uiiiu.lili-n na .Vlilcl I 111 loll leu I nu n"i n" ...i.io.-i
Hie lecosnUeil leaier on thin side of the was hiiu.i ni.-u ui . .
chamber speaks In a moaiue for hi
11.11 tx ," said Mr. Ilotah. "I do not as
sume lo spiak for my pally nor to ex-
Hint! fi-iiii, tnlii.tiii.il nml lil.ulilne li-iin. setlt to I ,1 1 I'.l tl,,1 lll".llgt .IS a l.ll.l-
bits. f.illowitc; lour recein o,ei,illou. phrase of the text of these t epiesenla-
All of Ills chllillcll Wei" stimilione.l lo Hull an
llle slcklooil. whit" 111. (IctletalVl wife
has been . c.islaiilly In alii tidancc Mis
llici.il ,
liress Views oilier
ellteitalll myself.
than Uioso which I
liipcctcil Irnietl Inlerveiillon,
I'ite yeats ago next March seven
Watson kept rutnl'g, and they wre
still shoolltig al hlin when I turned
and ran down giaile, wheie I fell In
soni" In u-ili, piohablv Inn feet f'oiti in
rear of the train. I lav there , rteiily
4iiii. t and looked aiouiiil and coiild i"
the Mexicans slioollng lu the din cllnt' In
which Watson wa running
"I saw that thev wete not iinoi.ii" i t
i ne. and thinking thev believed me ni-
icadv dead, 1 took a dilutee, noil ravvl"
lull) solli" thicker hltt-bcs
1
...nli,i...,l ititii ttnif i'iiii In iilili'Ulv li-'inu
formeil into ambulances. nnd Ine General Stall thai we ruiulre at American citizens were murdcieil Just
"Because of Ibis organization no mat- once not only the iiiiin 11 rled men i in tills sine oi tne noriier iiue, ne u
ter where a boinh struck lu London or inllfrt under the Henby scheino, nrvt only llougla. ArUoni, and eleven "ther
Its suburbs a t lie company am a luce - the marrien men vviki ore vmiiuok i" nu ,,..1111,1.1. ...... ............... . . . Imshes aid leiuheil tin
Z staff woulil be on. he spot within called, bu. i.Iki, tlie whole avail,,., e p, , one . ho has , nt, ,e ' ";,,,f I 'b-m made In,
Ave minutes a.icr uiu imiiiu nu Qy;:: " 1 eNpcdi-l at that time to nee ihe Amerl- wa lo a point piobabl, inn janls f.nn.
' ,J can Goveinment. In harmony with It - ; , -rrj .; -, - -
ancient traditions, enter on a decisive '""'"V.V.ilr.'V- .ii' i " v
I'.liiin llci nanilez, n daughter llvlig in
New Yolk, was telcgtapleil to hasten
here
Dm lug the afleriioon the tlnce lo'.il
ibi.iors who have been iiltetiih'ig the
aged Mexican General, called upon hint,
accompaiih d bv Major I'. II McAndrcws,
1nllll.11 : stir.'eiin al I'oii lllls. who wa
al, eil to visit lien Hutu tii on behalf of
the Pulled States Government
Gen IIiumI'I wrs coni Ions tin oiigl.otit
the dav, but inlmltleil I In I "I am a verv
1 twl 1 1 vvenk man." and did not mutest vvheit
the to lest came lo admliilstei tile Inst
I lies
flltEAT HKAR SI'ltlNO tVATKR.
I Sc. the ess f U glsan itutiptrta bettlw
Ait-
Tor nourlkhlnz ellet In grippe nr sore tlirnst
use llnrllck's Malted Milk. Avoid iiibstltuttti
-fr.
Coiifliiiieef on Secoitrt Page.
Vis HIiU'lllllltN ll.vil.vv.vv, Hie popular
I route, ntoriuitlonN..ontc.;lrTtlli Avs.
,ft'
llitlly service to Aiimistn ti'ii. e ('oist
l.llie l.etvt 11 Ki N VI liirnugh Si.iml iril
.sleeper ll.illv i'iiiu Mrt liieiu Tnr Turs ,
Thins . S11I Hilling Cur Bervlvr 1191 ll'y.
Ail 1
V
f tin- In pat Hue nt about
n n'i loci; ill. tali d lu a g'.nip of news
paper men what lie lid was (.ent to
Pulled Stale I'oio-iil Silllin.in at ijuet
itii.i for piesi ot.it. mi to 1 'at 1 .1 ii.i ,
In thl- olllcl.il paraphrase the Car
ranza fo.it. In ' iiiliu.ihiia weie chaigei
with being "Iner: ami lintnpalile of
taking care of Hie liiatiulfV nnd Hie
stiiieiniTH wa- made liii' he Aniei.iaiis
who we'e killed hid heeii ili'i,islieil safe
einidiicts bv tin unlit rtrWiullinntlcs of
the (arranza Co -im'iiL.
When Sc. ni, 11 v i.f4B .mention
wa railed hilf . UJIVe- ti th'
paraphrase he n' llisl fiidigii.nji de
nied that ai s(tci- ' ilemeii fft e'-e
made When 1 n 'oen eitvAj bai tneniar
phra'c bad be" . iven out by an olllcia
el lb" Dep. 11 toieni In- .iiluntteil that he
had not iieis.n il'y prepaid! the note
hut had given tllieition what it should
contain.
1 l?r also staled that he had not d -
3
II
It
i
