LOCALSWiANOTHER Co. Downs A. B. K. Quint of Minne-
apolis at the Armory on
Friday Evening.
Elk River and Princeton High Schools
Will Battle for Supremacy
Tomorrow Evening.
The A. B. K. basket ball team of
Minneapolis, known here as the Tem
ple quint, resembled the 1912 presi
dential boom of Colonel Roosevelt af
ter the Chicago steam roller had
flattened it out, at the conclusion of a
contest with the militia boys staged at
the armory Friday evening.
In a game featured by real team
work on the part of the locals, and
sensational passes across the entire
^ength of the hall, Co. overwehlmed
-its opponents and romped off with the
long end of a 52 to 20 score. It was
a truly gratifying showing and local
enthusiasts fairly beamed content
ment.
Play commenced shortly after 9
o'clock, and the visitors started with a
rush, throwing two baskets before the
locals had time to getf squared around.
The down river athletes were not in
the lead for any length of time, how
ever. Princeton brought on its 1916
model scoring machine and each one
of its five cylinders was in perfect
working order. Wilkes and Captain
Morton each negotiated a field bas
ket, and then Smith heaved the ball
through the net three times rapid
succession. Morton and Wilkes again
succeeded in locating the basket, and
Doane got within range a couple of
times and took two shots at the net
with marked success. It was a con
tinual round of pleasure and the be
wildered visitors were unable to pierce
the defense of the locals during all
this time The locals slowed up a
trifle after Smith had thrown another
basket, and allowed their opponents to
throw two. Just to keep the score
top heavy Newton wound up the half
by wafting the ball through the net a
couple of times. At the end of this
period the count was 26 to 8.
The second half was a repetition of
the first. The militia boys were in
vincible on the offensive, due to their
superior team work. Long shots at
T*e basket were never taken, when
another player was in a more advan
tageous position. Three times Wilkes
passed the ball the entire length of the
hall to Newton, who counted upon
each occasion. Smith secured three
field goals during this round, and New
ton, who appeared to be unguarded
most of the time, tossed baskets with
a regularity that was truly disconcert
ing and disheartening to the players
of the other side. Eleven field baskets
is the record hung up by him. At oc
casional intervals the visitors would
get within range of the net, and dur
ing the final period surprised them
selves and everybody else by negotiat
ing 12 field goals The total count
was 52 to 20
NOTES.
"Pongo" Olson acted as referee and
his rulings were delivered with the
hauteur of a supreme court justice.
Tom did the right thing and proved
satisfactory to both sides.
Manager Hofflander has scheduled
no game for this week, as the high
school teams of Princeton and Elk
River will oppose each other at the
Armory tomorrow, Friday, evening.
This contest will undoubtedly be a
speedy exhibition.
Co. is going particularly strong at
present, and the team is now in a po
sition to force any aggregation to ex
tend itself to win.
Doane and Captain Morton retired
during the last few minutes of play to
afford Schmidt and Milbrath an oppor
tunity to get into the game.
A week from this evening the Nemec
basket ball team of St. Cloud will op
pose Co. G, and the contest will un
doubtedly be a hummer. This is the
fastest quint in the Granite City, and
the militia boys are determined to re
deem themselves for the two defeats
sustained at the hands of a St. Cloud
team early in the season. Co. is
the pink of conditio.1 and we predict
that the contest will be a thriller.
Winter Carnival at St. Paul.
St. Paul, Jan. 7: A real winter car
ival on an immense scalea carnival
in which all the many kinds of winter
sports will be featured and in whiSh
as a civic enterprise the biggest men
of the city are interestedwill be
staged in this city by the St. Paul
Outdoor Sports Carnival association
during the ten days from January 27
to February 6. With every club,
lodge, big business concern and organ
ization in the city boosting the pror
ject, this carnival will be to the north
what the great Mardi Gras has be
come to the south and the people of
the woild are invited to participate in
the pleasures of winter pastiming here
during that period.
This carnival, promoted by popular
subscription, will be free to -everyone
who may care to attend and its various
pleasures* and sports will simply give
expression to the winter carnival
spirit as it is known the north. To
boggan slides and ski jumps will be
erected in different parts of the city
large ice rinks for skating, curling and
hockey will be*provided* a race course
for harness events will be laid out
while marching, snow-shoe, ski, to
boggan and various other clubs will
vie with each other during the ten days
of the carnival in the many events
which are to be offered.
Mr. Louis W. Hill is president of the
Carnival association and interested
with him the success of the enter
prise are all of the leading business
men of the city. City and state offi
cials are co-operating, while lodges*
and clubs have already organized even
to the point of adopting colors and
designs for their toboggan and car
nival costumes. Committees are busy
everywhere through the city each day
and evening and the ten days' event
without a doubt will easily be the big
gest thing in amusement line the north
and west"has ever known.
Annual Telephone Meeting.
The annual meeting of the stocky
holders of the Minnesota Rural Tele
phone Co. was held at the court house
hall Monday afternoon. C. L. Campl
bell of Baldwin presided.
Secretary J. A. Jflrstad read the
financial report of the company, and
same was approved and ordered
placed on file. The report showed
that the finances of the company are
a good condition.
Upon motion duly made and carried
it was decided to furnish each compa
ny affiliated with the central company
with a copy of the by-laws of said cen
tral company.
At the present time but two of the
companies interested in the central
company are connected with the Rural
exchange-in this village, but the others
will connect up as soon as present con
tracts with the Tri-State company ex
pire. The manager was instructed to
see to it that connecting lines be built
out to the village limits before the
various contracts with the Tn-State
expire, so that there will be no delay
connecting these lines with the Ru
bral exchange.
One stockholder from each of the
farmer lines was chosen as a director
of the central company, as follows:
Wrh "Talen, Woodward Brook Tele
phone Co. W. H. Gebert, Princeton
Short Line C. L. Campbell, Baldwin
and Blue Hill line Val Sausser,
Princeton and Bogus Brook line J.
Fox, Santiago and Blue Hill line R.
P. Morton, West Branch line George
Schmidt, Carmody and Tolin line.
The board of directors then met and
perfected an organization by electing
the following officers: Val. Sausser,
president C. L. Campbell, vice-presi
dent Rufus P. Morton,secretary and
manager W. H. Gebert, treasurer.
The directors and officers are gen
tlemen of good judgement, and the
affairs of the company are safe
hands.
The Cooling Sun.
Life on this planet will end gla
cial chill within two million years,
says M.,Verronet, mathematician. M.
Verronet's prediction is less generous
than some of his fellow scientists' es
timates, at least one of which allows
us a hundred million years more of
work and play, love, make-believe,
murder and carnage. Even if our
mathematician has his figures rightly
calculatedt two million years is long
enough to serve a great many pur
poses. But who knows what supple
ments we may yet discover for this sun
of oursthat now serves as heating
and lighting plant Who knows all
the secrets stored for us in radium,
electricity, in forces and elements un
registered and unusupected Proph
ecy is, diverting, but this world is a
large place.Harper's Weekly.
Jury Disagrees.
George Christiansen was arrested
by Marshal Wilkes Saturday after
noon on "complaint of Harold Rines,
charging assault in the third degree.
Christiansen was arraigned the same
day before Justice Dickey, and de
manded a jury trial. A jury was im
paneled and the case was tried Mon
day afternoon. Cpunty Attorney My
ron appeared for the state, while
Christiansen handled his own case.
The alleged assault was committed
Saturday in the, defendant's black
smith shop. Harold Rines, Chris Iver
son and "Roy Anderson appeared as
witnesses for the state, and testified
that the assault had been committed.
Christiansen admitted that he had
thrown the plaintiff down, but stated
it was a case of self-defense. He was
partially corroborated by Gunder
George, who witnessed the proceed
ings. Nels Nelson also testified for
the defense, but his testimony was not
particularly material.
For a novice at the law game Chris
tiansen did brilliant work, and made a
telling plea to the jury, after the coun
ty attorney had had his say.
The jury was unable to agree upon
a verdict, although it deliberated over
three hours, and the case was dis
missed.
Dr. S.J. Tibbets.
Dr. S. I. Tibbets of Wayzata answer
ed the final summons on the 5th inst.,
in Portland, Oregon, where he had
gone to visit his daughter, Mrs. Guy
Neely, and with the hope that a change
of climate would prove-beneficial to
his health.
The .remains were shipped to Min
nesota for burial, and the funeral ser
vices were conducted under the aus
pices of the Masonic order from the
Wayzata Congregational church Sun
day.
Deceased was born on the Island of
Madeira 67 years ago, and lived and
practiced his profession at Wayzata
and vicinity the past 33 years. He was
a member of the State Medical asso
ciation and the Medical association
of Hennepin countyv He will be
greatly missed by a large circle of
friends, and especially by the old set
tlers residing in the vicinity of Lake
Minnetonka.
Dr. Tibbets is survived by the
widow, a son, Paul W. a daughter,
Mrs. Guy Neely two sisters, Mrs.
Mary Myers of Minneapolis, and Mrs.
I. M. Carleton of Princeton, and two
brothers, William of Port Doore, Can
ada, and John of Racine, Wisconsin.
Favors State Inspection of Tubers.
The annual meeting of the Minne
sota Potato Growers' association was
held on the 5th inst., in connection
v/ith the Farmers* and Home-Makers'
week at the university farm.
Speeches were mad in favor of" a
law calling for state inspection of po
tatoes, as in the case of wheat. Prof.
J. G. Milward of the University of
Wisconsin, explained the Wisconsin
law on potato inspection. Uniform
standardization of varieties of pota
toes was also advocated. An investi
gating committee on the subject of po
tato inspection consisting of D. E. Wil
lard, development agent of the North
ern Pacific railroad, and T. A. Hover
stead of the Soo was appointed.
The entire staff of officers was re
elected, as follows: James A. Opsahl,
Bemidji, president G. Giddens, Anoka,
vice president C. E. Brown, Elk Riv
er, secretary and treasurer. D. A.
Nourse of St. Francis and J. O. James
of North Branch were chosen mem
bers of the executive committee.
The association will be represented
at a national conference to be held next
month at Chicago to discuss the sub
ject of federal inspection and stand
ardization of potatoes.
A Great and Growing Industry.
Some idea of the importance of the
dairy industry to Minnesota can be
gleaned from the following from the
Farm Stock and Home:
"Minnesota has 852 creameries, and
the total amount of butter manufac
tured in the state last year was^l23,-
117,912 pounds. There are seventy
cheese factories in the state and the to
tal production of cheese last year was
5,594,578 pounds in Minesota. Pat
rons of the cheese factories were paid
$763,587 last year. The cows of Min
nesota produce each year $96,000,000
in calves and milk and the various uses
to- which milk is put. Creamery pat
rons of Minnesota were paid $32,066,-
022 in cash last year. Minnesota has
1,125,000 milch cows. Minnesota is the
only state whieh conducts its own state
creamery. Minnesota butter is valued
at $50,000,000 annually."
Blue Hill Suicide.'
Fred Glass, an aged Blue Hill, Sher
burne county, farmer, committed sui
cide last night by shooting himself in
the head with a shot gun.
Despondency over ill health it is
thought prompted the rash act. __
Mr. Glass, who was about 70 years
old, had been a resident of Blue Hill
but a few years, coming there from Or
rock, in the same county, where he re
sided 30 years or more.
The widow, a daughter, Mrs. Ed.
Edson, of Blue Hill, and a SQn, Paul,
of Orrock, survive him.
SPUDMARRETISFIRM
Potato Prices Continue to Advance
Farmers Thought to Be
Holding for $1.00.
Percentage Held by Farmers Heavier
Than UsualNo Fear
of Importations.
The. potato market continues to ad
vance, and since the last issue* of the
Union from 80c to 85c has been paid
for white stock. Rose have been
bringing 80c, Ohios 75c, while the de
mand for Triumphs has forced the
price on this variety up to $1and $1.05.
It has been years since potatoes
have been ^s high as at present at
this season, and buyers who have been
on the market 16 years or more state
that they do not recollect a time, when
tubers were worth these prices early
in January.
Receipts have been heavy on the
days that the weather permitted haul
ing
It is estimated that the percentage
of potatoes held by farmers is ^heavier
than usual at this season, bad roads
having interfered with hauling to a
certain extent.
Wired reports received last week by
The Chicago Packer from the princi
pal districts in the northern potato
belt show that present holdings of pa
tatoes are light for this time of year
and that the biggest percentage of
the remaining stocks are in farmers'
hands. Advice from almost all sec
tions state that farmers are very firm
in their ideas and the impression is
that they are holding for $1 per bushel.
Most stations report light movement
from original hands and extra heavy
inquiry from trade all over the coun
try.
Taking all important sections of
the northern potato belt into consider
ation The Packer estimates that hold
ings at present are from 30 to 40 per
cent less than a"year ago at this time.
The significance of this is even greater
because a year ago the outlet for po
tatoes from this section was not near-
east as they could move at that time,
whereas this year northern shippers
%W*g$lS^^tBte&L&o Neas^ork and
other coast points, and also are get
ting an extra large trade from south
east and southern points Last year
Maine shipped potatoes as far west as
St. Louis, while this season, in view,
of the shortage in the eastern crop,
northern potatoes have the central
section all to themselves.
Following are the reports received
from Minnesota points by The Packer:
Princeton, Mum., Jan. 7.Potatoes here are
not keeping as well as in former ear and the
shrinkage 13 about normal The holdings of
this station are about 60 per cent of the crop.
At other nearby stations the holdings are much
lighter.. Stocks mostly are eating potatoes.
Triumph seed is very scarce, Ohios plentiful.
Rose scaxce. Fanners aie holding for higher
prices and not moving much now F W
Manke
Moorhead, Minn Jan 7 It is estimated 75
per cent of the usual holdings of Red River
Ohios are on hand. Probably 30 per cent of
the supply is sold for spring shipment. The
quality is good except slightly under size and
keeping fine.Leslie Welter.
Center City, Minn., Jan. 7.Potato holdings
are about 10 per cent under last year, mostly
in farmers' hands. They are keeping good.
Lake & Burns Company.
Sabine, Minn., Jan. 7.Unsold potato hold
ings the Red River district are 40 per cent
less than a year ago. Growers look for prices
as high as in 1912. There has been little ship
ping done the past few weeks on account of
cold weather and the feeling is that nothing
under $1 a bushel will bring them out. Prob
ably half the supply in storage is sold for fu
tures. The quality is good and keeping well.
Wright ft Co.
North Branch, Jan. 7.The total crop here
this year is about 65 per cent of last year's
crop with about half the crop held, part of
which is sold. At other nearby stations hold
ino-s are very much lighter. Not over 25 per
cent of the normal amount of Triumphs are
held. Ohios are also scarce. Stocks keeping
good.North Branch Mercantile Company.
Barnesville, Minn., Jan. 7.The stock of
Red River Ohios here is about 65 per cent of
a year ago. The quality is very good and
stocks are keeping fine. The Red River Val
ley as a whole is away short of last year.
Norby Solum.
The new York potato market-was
wild and unsettled last week, showing
a heavy advance in all eastern centers.
It has been several years since the
market went on such a rampage. At
the close of the week the situation was
extremely firm with the tendency up
ward.
The Maine potato crop this year was
18,000,000 bushels against 33,000,000
bushels last year. The Michigan crop
this year was 20,000,000 against 44,-
000,000 bushels last year. The New
York state crop was 22,000,000 busllels
against 53,000,000 bushels last year,
hut most of thisyear's state crop were
early potatoes.
According to The Packer owners of
potatoes have nothing at all to fear
from "importations this season. j~
ly as extensive Pittsburgh ^as^-^faT^tc its fortieth year through all the vi
cissitudes of which no one wiic has-not
published a country sheet can have the
sligjhtest. koowiedge. Perhaps the
Union was well along in its teenswhlen
Bob adopted itwe don't know. We
do know, however, that it has reached
a successful, ripe maturity under his
fathering.
"The Union is a hig paperbig from
a news standpoint, big from a human
interest standpoint and big politically
in that it states political situations and
conditions with clarity which may well
be the envy of every paper in the state.
"But Bob Dunn is bigger than his
paper, as an editor must always be if
his paper is not to get into a rut. Bob
is scrappy, pugnacious with the accent
on the pug and has a fondness for
barking and growling as though he'd
bite. But he never really does. In
stead he fights like fury for the thing
he believes, is just and^beneficial and a
little harder than that for good roads.
You always know where Bob stands
and you find him standing there even
when you return from a little side"ex
cursion of your own."
How Quack Grass May be Conquered.
Quack grass which, like the soldiers
in Europe, digs in and is hard to oust,
can be ousted.
Minnesota Experiment Station Bul
letin No. 151, on "Quack Grass Erad
ication," by A. C. Amy, tells how the
thing can be done. Here are a few
pointed paragraphs from this bulletin.
"Quack grass seed will grow even if
the plant is^ut before the seed is ma
ture. In order to prevent quack grass
from developing seeds to the point
where they'will germinate, crops in
which it is growing should be cut not
later than the last week in June.
"Young quack-grass plants, if at
tacked before they have formed under
ground stems, are as easily killed as
plants of wheat or other grains of the
same age.
"Manure containing quack grass
seed may be applied on plowed ground
before preparing Jhe soil for a culti
vated crop. The seed will grow the
same season and the young plant* will
be killed in the preparation of the seed
bed and the cultivation of the crop.
"Digging by hand, and removing
from the field all portions of the plant,
smothering with tar paper, and spray
ing with a solution of sodium arsenite
are best for the complete eradication
of quack grass on smalhspots.
"All methods of eradication on large
fields are based on thorough tillage.
"The implements found on any well
equipped farm are all that are needed
to eradicate quack grass.'^
A copy of this bulletin can be had
by addressing the Office of Publica
tions, University Farm, St. Paul.
It is Not An Adopted Child.
There have been many complimen
tary allusions to the Union's thirty
ninth birthday in the state press for
which we are duly grateful, and we
beg pardon for reproducing the bou
quet which was handed us by the bril
liant editress of the Redwood Falls Ga
zetteby the way the Union was es
tablished by its present publisher
when he was a mere kid in 1876:
"Cantankerous Bob Dunn, as he has
-been lovingly called by his most inti
mate enemies, has brought his best
beloved child, the Princeton Union, up
The Road to Happiness.
The pessimist delights in derision
of the^ good resolutions which mark
the celebration of New Year in the
minds of the people. Shame upon
the man or woman who would dull the
bright ambitions and desires for the
better of any human being! But there
is little time to give to hahitual mourn
ers. The new year will be what we
make it, so far as our individual lives
are concerned, and the man or woman
who resolves to be happy in a health
ful, unselfish way, is taking the first
road toward happiness.-^-Chisholm
Miner.
Fair Management Complimented.
Mr. A. Bryson, president of the Mille
Lacs County Agricultural society, has.
secured, from Public Examiner Fritz a
copy of the report of the examination
of the society made by Assistant Pub
lic Examiner C. E. Johnson. The re
port is most thorough and goes into
every detail and concludes with this
highly satisfactory comment: "Books
and accounts are in good order and the
affairs of the society are in competent
^hands." T~ JL
Jhe Mille Lacs County Agricultural
society is well officered and its affairs
are ably and honestly conducted, and
it is pleasing to have a competent
state official who has made a thorough
examination say so.
Tlie Country Doctor.
The world owes a lot to the country
doctor. His chest may not be decorat-
ed with a Carnegie medal, wealth
seldom comes to him, and his honors
are few, but no man does more for
humanity than the country doctor.
Always on the alert to answer the
summons of the sick, he makes long
drives, in the dead of winter, bat
tling against the cold and bad roads
to arrive in time to stave off death,
and relieve suffering and distress. He
has no regular hours he knows no
holidays he eats when and where he
can. Often poorly paid, and not un
rarely never paid at all, he always
does his best. Unselfish, and with
the first thought of others, he often
breaks down and undermines his own
health to pull his patients through a
crisis. Unhonored, unwept and un
sung may be said of him in many*
cases. And yet who is deserving of
more honor and more praise? He
ushers us into the world, eases our
pains while we are here and makes
our final exit as peaceful as possible.
Yes, the world owes a lot to the coun
try doctor.Winnebago Enterprize.
George H. Doty.
George H. Doty, a respected resi
dent of this village, passed over the
great divide yesterday morning after
a brief illness at the age of 72 years,
2 months and 9 days.
Funeral services will be conducted
at St. Edward's Catholic church to
morrow morning at 9 o'clock by Rev.,
Fr. Willenbrink, and the remains will
be taken to Becker for interment.
George H. Doty was born in the
state of Pennsylvania, and accompan
ied his parents to St. Paul, this state,
when three years of age. He was
married in that city about 50 years ago
to Miss Cecelia Murphy, who survives
him. Three sons and three daughters
also survive.
Prior to his coming here a few years
ago to act as section foreman, deceas
ed resided at Becker, Sherburne coun
ty several years, and for 15 years he
was a resident of Wisconsin.
Mr. Doty was a good and industrious
citizen, and had been employed in the
capacity of section foreman for 30
continuous years. He had recently
purchased a dwelling house at Leaven
worth, Washington, and was about to
retire from the more active pursuits
of life, and pass his declining years'
in leisure. ATJZ^ ^m
^^Mrs. Olof 0boa.$&^
Mrs. Olof Olson, an esteemed resi-*
dent of Greenbush, departed this life
on the 7th inst., at the age o* 61 years,
5 months and 17 days. Deceased was
taken ill with la grippe a short time
ago, and as she also was afflicted with
diabetes succumbed.
Funeral services were conducted
from the Swedish Lutheran church of
Greenbush Monday afternoon. Rev.
M. Peterson officiated, and touching
selections were sung by five young
ladies. Miss Evelyn Peterson played
the funeral march. The pall bearers
were August Lindstrom, Andrew Hom
me, Ben Nelson, John Levan, Albert
Johnson and August Lind. Inter
ment was in the church cemetery.
Mrs. Olson was a native of Norway,
and had been a resident of Greenbush
for years. She is survived by her hus
band, a brother and two sisters.
Mr. and Mrs. Olson recently retired
from active farming, and were pre*
paring to spend their declining years
in ease and comfort in a handsome
new dwelling recently erected by them
near the Freer store. It was not so
willed, however, and Mrs. Olson en
joyed the comforts of the new home*
but a few,weeks.
4- HIGH SCHOOL NOTES.
a$jK*$K#2K*3K 5K*5K#
The high school basket ball quint
will play Elk River Friday evening at
the armory.
Pupils and teacher alike looked
much refreshed Monday after the va
cation of two weeks.
Eugene Hill received a fine new suit
of clothes Christmas.
The Seniors are again back in the
assembly room and that room is much
improved in appearance by their aug-^
ust presence.
The Normal girls came over Tues-J&
day and Wednesday mornings to listen^
to the topics., f-~
The Senior class pins and rings were
received and distributed Tuesday. ^ajJS
Mr. Jacka has charge of the topics~
this week and has requested the follow-^"*
ng pupils to show their ability: Hjordis?""
Scheen, Elby Svarry, Evelyn Sauser^*
Florence Slater, Grace Staples, Luv#||
Taylor, Irene Umbehocker, Olga Swan~3
son and Everet, "The Tall Pine."
^^J5| J~
-5"
M"
'9
c ^?~*3*rf*
Longest Stilt Race.
The longest race ever run on stilts
took place from Bordeaux to Biarritz
in 1S93. The distance Is 303 miles.
