Try t-D Wart Ads
Wonderful Little Business
Getters?Randolph I
66th year
VOIil'JIK 0?
m 12
That Vacant House
Let The Timcs-Dispatch Find
You a Tenant?/Vou)
Richmond; va? Thursday, January 13. 1910.?twelve pages.
?rain.
price, 2 cents
if Says Strengthening of Ex
ccutive's Hands Necessary
by Adequate Legislation.
CANNOT ALWAYS DEPEND
ON LOCAL AUTHORITIES
General Disregard of Law and
Courts as Great an Evil
as Intemperance.
SKSHIO.N OF Jt)l? IS OI'KNKI)
' icllmfnarlcs ?f OrKnni/.allnn Are
Gone Through With In
lloth Houses.
Overshadowing In significance the
J more or less perfunctory ceremonial
Incident to the convening nf the Gen
eral Assembly or 19ir, yesterday was
fiivr!rnor Stuart's first message to the
new Legislature? a document which
addressed Itself in clear-cut language
I and without compromise to two Kre.it
< questions with which the lawmakers
I will deal at this session: taxation and
prohibition. \
Significant in th>> extreme w.-\s the
Governor's warning that a supine as
sumption on the part of the I.egisla
ture that the officers of each local com
munity will In all cases perform their
duty ?rlth respect to the enforcement
of prohibition laws would lead to dis
astrous consequences.
Having declared that prohibition shall
prevail throughout the State in every
community, regardless of the will of
that community, the State, said the
Governor, must step in an.I enforce tlio
law where the local communities fail
to do S'j. This, he believes. can l#e ac
complished only by strengthening the.
centraI power of the State?specifically,
by vest I up the chief execulUe with
I authority which the Constitution, bv its
language. Intended, but which actually
is. in a large measure, withheld.
WANTS AITHOHITV TO
ni:\i, with i,.uvi,i:ssm>s
i There Is an almost unmistakable ref
, ?'!enc- to the situation at Hopewell in
that passage of the Governor's message
which draws attention to the central
authority's handicap in dealing with
lawlessness of an emergency charac
ter. The success of the Governor in
law enforcement, he points out. Is
largely dependent upon the ability and
willingness to co-operate on the part
r.f local officers over whom the Gover
nor Is given no expressed authority.
This condition, said the Governor,
brings the central authority of the
State and its chief executive in a posi
tion of dependency, tenders the local
government superior to the Stat- gov
ernment and makes Virginia, so far
ah the enforcement of the criminal laws
is concerned, a helpless aggregation of
Independent counties and cities, instead
of a sovereign State responsible for the
execution of her laws throughout her
borders.
"Such a policy," concludes the <;ov
ctnor. "Is tota 11 v unfitted for the en
foi cement of a law in which the hahits
and customs of our people are in
volved and concerning which th<>re
wa* such marked and recent division
of sentiment among our people, espe
cially In our lart'e centers of popula
tion "
M ANT5 1*1.A IX. STIIO.Mi,
K\KOnCKAIII.K I.AWS
The Governor summarizes his rlosi
tion by advising the legislature to
translate the prohibition sentiment of
the Stat? Into plain, strong and en
forceable laws.
With reference to taxation, the Gov
ernor expresses the belief that the sur
plus In the Treasury, together with the
large amount already collected and
collectible from omitted assessments of
previous years, will provide an ample
reserve fund to carry the new plan of
taxation to a point where the increas
ing revenue arising from natural
causes from year to year will give to
the State revenue sufficient for all pur
poses,
- The Governor addresses himself
pointedly to the tendency In some
quarters lo discredit the tax on intangi
bles?now the State's chief source of
Income?by enlarging upon its inquisi
torial character. Having inaugurated
a new system which has brought under
taxation large sums of hitherto untaxed
property to the great relief of the
average taxpayer, shall the people of
the State, the Governor asks, "he
cheated out of their long-delayed ad
vantage by the hue and cry raised by
Interested parties against the methods
necessary lo reach and maintain sub
stantial results?"
Ml ST DISCOVl*2It
O MITTP, n I \ TA x<; I n I.KS
It is essential, thinks Governor
Stuart. If the State's interests are to
he protected, that the means of dis
covering undeclared intangible prop
erty shall bo maintained and. if need
he. supplemented and strengthened.
Failure on the part of the State to!
collect this revenue from these sources'
hitherto untaxed, he points out. must
result In relmpnsing a lnrge part, or
all. of the State tax of 3.r> cents on
the $100 formerly applying to real
estate and tangible personal property,
thus placing additional burdens on
property already taxed because of the
failure of the State to provide and
maintain ways and means lo discover
untaxed property.
The message was read at length in
I he House of Delegates, and was heard I
with close attention by the memh* rs.
In the Senate it was ordered printed
for distribution lo the members. The
message is the first of a series of three
thai will be sen I lo the General Assern
(Coutinucd on Third" Page!)
Sends Annual Message
GOVERNOR HBXKV C. STIWKT.
SAYS MANUFAGTURERS
ARE NOT OVERTAXED
Klillo Advisory Hoard Files lis First
Report on Working of Sfgrr
uation System.
I(K( (?IM K.\I)S ,\ M K X I> M E X TS
Would Make Provisions as to Tax on
Capital in Business "Equitable,
?Just and Fair"?Present Law (.'re
ntes Hardship on Some Classes.
Kcportinor critically upon the new tax
system that lias been in force since
last March, the Slate Advisory Hoard
on Taxation, in its first statement to
the General Assembly yesterday, ad
vised the legislature to address itself
with car* to the anicnilnient of the
provisions relation to the taxing of
manufacturers, with t >i*? view of de
vising a law that shall l>>? "equitable,
just and fair. '
in making this recommendation, the
hoard expressly refuses to admit, how
ever, that manufacturers in this State,
as lias been claimed, are, as a class,
overtaxed. The present law. the hoard
believes, creates a hardship on some
classes of manufacturers, and for this
reason there should he reasonable re
vision.
Complaint against this feature of the
new tax system found expression last
mouth in a concerted movement of lead
ing manufacturers directed towards im
pressing the advisory hoard with th<>
necessity for relief a meeting was
'held in I'.ichmond and :t committee was
designated to take the matter up with
the hoard.
MtM K.KTI ItKHS COMIM.AIY
OK TA.V.tTKIX OK CAIMTAt,
Specifically, the manufacturers rom
plained of the administra tior: of the
law with reference to the taxation of
? heir capital It was claimed with
1 considerable force and persistency that
j only net capital of manufacturers
i should In* taxed, and tint against their
Rrnss assets they should lie allowed to
I offset all hills payable or debts due
i by them. It was claimed that under
; this plan manufacturers would he
I taxed upon their intangibles in the
j same way as owners of bonds are taxed,
1 such owners having the right to de
iduct their indebtedness from the total
enlue of their bonds or debts due thein.
"This hoard has been impressed by
this claim." the advisory board reports
to the General Assembly, "and jet is
of the opinion that the. manufacturers
in this State are not. as a class, over
taxed, and that any plan which may
he devised should yield revenue in ex
cess of the amount assessed for 1 (* 15?
$390,000 in round figures?against tals
class of taxpayers, the total assessed
value being, in round numbers. ?f.0.
! 000,000, on which the State rate of
! taxation is tlr? cents on the $1)0."
! WITHOUT INKOIOIATIOV
as to .\<a;iti-:<; \tk. sai.k.s
To the suggestion that a license tax
j based upon aggregate sales he sub
stituted for the tax on capital, .he
I board replies that it cannot at this
: time recommend this plan, because it
; is without accurate knowledge as to
jtho aggregate sales of the manufac
. turers. and is hence unable to suggest
I what would be a proper rate.
The board believes that there is merit
: in the, suggestion that manufacturers
! be taxed on their net capital at a rate
j creator than the rate on other intangi
bles. In this way, the board suggests,
the profits of the business could be
made to bear their fair proportion of
the public burden.
"Still another suggestion," the board
reports, concluding its reference to !his
point, "is that the normal, or average,
capital used by the manufacturer,
whether borrowed or not, shall be. as
certained. and that upon this amount
.if normal capital the proper rate be
applied.
NOT PltEI'A It KI1 TO AlAlvK
ItK.KIMTK RKCOM 11 K.\IIATION
"As at present advised, this board is
not prepared to make a definite recom
mendation. We would, therefore, say
we believe, that the present law
creates a hardship upon some classes
of manufacturers, and that the whole
subject should have the careful atten
tion of the General Assembly, with a
view of devising a law that shall lie
equitable. Just and fair. Wo arc in
formed that certain bills have been
prepared and will he presented by the
manufacturers who complain of the
present system, and they should receive
considerate attention, but cartful scru
tiny, and their effect upon the revenues
of the Slate fully determined before
they are enacted into law."
The board touches pertinehtl) upon
(Continued on Fifth Page.)
Passes Second Reading in House
of Commons Amid Scenes
of Great Enthusiasm.
NEW VICTORY FOR ASQUITH
Three Labor Members of Minis
try Temporarily Withdraw
Resignations.
LO.S'lw i.V, January 1?. Anlld scenes
of uproarious enthusiasm, the House of
Commons at 11 o'clock to-ni'^ht de
feated a motion to reject tho military
service l?ill by a vote of 431 to SP. Im
mediately afterward tho house acceded
to th?- Premler'.s re?|'iif-;t by passing the
secpnd reading of the hill without di-,
vision.
| The vote was chiefly Interesting on
j account of the changed attitude of
. many of the 105 members who opposed
lit on .lie first reading.
The debate was closed by Arthur
I Henderson, president of the board of
education, in a much-applauded spc?.- li.
He closed with ih<- statement:
"I have tlie authority of Karl Kit -1?
, ener and the general staff that we re
quire at once, not only tho mimamed i
| men enrolled under tho Derby scheme.
I not only the married men who are
f waiting to ho called, but also 'he
I whole available part of the <550,000
men with whom this measure deals."
opposition" t ut >iiii.i:s
TO FKW
The opposition in the House of Com
mons to the conscription bill crumbled'
I to-night to a few conscientious objec-i
tors. A fortnight ago tho antieompul
' Zionists claimed 200 votes, but on the
first reading they were able to muster!
only 1 of whom more than one-half
'were Irish Nationalists.
When it came to the second reading
of the bill to-night the Irish National-i
i>t? hnd withdrawn from the opposi-'I
t ion.
The result appears have been due
partly to evidences that the country
favors the measure and partly to Mr.
As<|U i t h's often-displayed facility at
conciliation The Premier held a con-j
ference with the executive committee'
of (he Labor party and Labor members
of the House of Commons this after*,
noon, at which he induced the three
Labor members of the ministry to w'th
j draw their resignations temporarily,
and apparently made a strong impres
sion on the members of the executive
committee.
\S<U ITH lilVBS \SM HA YCKS
OF NO I I.TKI11 Oil MOTIVES
The Labor men askerl for assurances'
that the bill should not he used as a
step towards general conscription or
industrial conscription. Mr. Asquith'
? gave tite promise that the bill would
he modified to safeguard it from any
suspicion that it could be used for su -Ji
purposes. After an appeal for labor's
support, he withdrew to permit the r< p
itMcntntivr-s t" discyss their policy
The N'atlonal-' t members, af:or voting
against the bill on tlie first reading,
now take the altitude that it does not
concern them, although they are op- ?
posed to compulsion on principle, since'
it applies only to tho larger island
FOG ENVELOPS COAST
i Ship* nf Sen Prneceil <nu llottsly. mill
Activities in Port Are
Suspended.
NORFOLK. VA? January 12.?1 rae-!
tically tin* entire Atlantic Coast from
Norfolk to llatteras is enveloped in a I
! (ior.se fog to-night. Ships are pro-1
ceedlnif cautiously, and many are at I
; anchor in Hampton Roads awaiting!
i clear weather before starting to sea.;
The fog was so thick at Cape Henry j
to-day the government observer was|
unable to distinguish vessels passing'
in or out of Chesapeake Ma v.
Shipping; Is Suspended.
; NEWPORT NEWS. VA.. Januarv 1:>.?!
A heavy blanket of fop to-day caused
shipping activities at tins port to be,
temporarily suspended. No vessels en
j tercd or left the port, although there
j are several steamers overdue and a
! few ready to sail. Fog hells and horns
| drowned all other sounds alone -.he
I waterfront.
W. C. HAMMER ACCUSED
11*. S. Attorney for Western Nor I It enro
ll tin District flturgcd With Vio
lating Federal Flection htitv,
WASHINGTON. January 12.?Charges |
; Of violating tiif Federal election law,
land of refusing to prosecuto oilier men
Iwho violated the same law were placed
{before Secretary Tumulty, at the White
j House to-day, against W. C. Hammer,!
J of Ashboro, N. C.. United States dis
trict attorney for the Western l>is*i
Itrict of North Carolina. Formei Sen-!
[ator Marion Puller, acting as attorney.)
| he said, for various citizens of Ran-'
Idolph County, North Carolina, Hied the!
j charges, which will he referred to the
[Department of Justice from the Whitej
House. The charges were a ?/com -1
panicd by aflidavits. The removal from
ollice of Mr. Hammer is desired by the
citizens making the charges.
PRESIDENT TO SPEAK
Prolinhly Will Discuss Xnltonnl Defense'
at Annual Dinner of ('liatillter of ]
Commerce of I'. S.
WASHINGTON, January 12.?Prcsi-J
dent Wilson to-day accepted an invi
tation to speak at the annual dinner!
of the Chamber of Commerce of tlini
United States here on February 10. He|
probably will discuss national defense.
The invitation was extended to-day by
John II. Fahey, president.'
Within lite next few weeks the Presi
dent will speak in different parts of the
country with the object of putting the
Issue before the people.
inn!
AWAITS CETIN1E
Montenegrin Capital Cannot Long
Withstand Overwhelming
Strength of Austrians.
SERIOUS ASPECTS FOR ITALY
Conquest of Little Kingdom Re
garded as Serious Menace to
Allies at Saloniki.
I .OX ( mix. January I" ? < 'et t uje, lie
capital of Mmitrii, iiow seems llk<*ly
to sutfer the fa to of Helgrade. ami I . t -
ish bonerverp arc already asking iim:: -
lously what menace the Austrian ion
quest of Montenegro is likely to hold
over the allies at Saloniki I'iuhting
is golnx on all around Cetlnje, the
small town which nearly a year ago
?eased to he the seat of the Montenegrin
government. Never before in the long
history of the little Montenegrin king
dom has it heen compelled to how t?i a
foreign roiii|Ui ror. hut there seems
little hoite that it can long withstand
the overwhelming strength of General
Koevess in men and uuns.
?\s in Serbia's case, the entente pr-ss
tilids it inexplicable why Italian as-i
sistnnce was not sent long aj;o to
l.ovcen. which, it is said. could have
been rendered Inipienliable wiCfo a eom-j
parntively small number of rty-fenforee-1
meats and a few heavy guns. The re-]
ductlon of Montenegro, the press poi*>ts
out, will enable Austria, not only to;
command the Adriatic, but also threaten;
the Hank of any advance, from s.?-,
loniki and prevent any effective move,
by the entente forces through Albania
MINIS ITA I.IAN I'KN INS! I, \
PIHTI.IA Itl.\ VI l.NKIl AIII.1-:
For Italy the new Austrian success
has .1 most serious aspect. The lone,
narrow Italian peninsula is peculiarly
vulnerable to an attack from the sea.
Any really great naval base in the
magnificent harbor ?? f Cattaro would
have been impossible without l.ovcen,
but under the new circumstances Aus
trian possession of Cattnro is aim ist
as trre;jn a menace to Italy as the <;< i
inan conquest of Calais would have
been 11 Great Britain
While attention is centered on tins
developments on the Adriatic coast, It
is announced from Rome that two Ital
ian transports, the ttrindisl and C'iita
?ii Palermo, lasi week struck mines
and s? ink. A majority of the crews
was saved.
On the Russian front the ' Austrian
official communication records renewed
desperate attacks by the Hussians on
the Itessarabian frontier, but insists
that the attacks everywhere were re
pulsed. The I'ctrograd commuuic.it on
is silent on the subject, hut the Rtis*
sians usually withhold mention of their
movements until they are ?veil on the
road to completion.
There have been no important r'o
velopments on the western front. The
blowing up of a? large German muni
tion depot tienr I.ille is admitted in ;hc
Oerman communication. According to
one account, this was due to a British
air raid. The English pr$ss believes
that the cautious wording of the Hi-r
tnan communication conceals a disaster
of largo proportions.
<? III*? AT SPIIHT OF DI'TnilSn
IN lilt ?TAIN AM) fltANCK
There is a great spirit of optimum
in both Hritish and French dispatches
from the western front, ihe corre
spondents expressing the flrin convic
tion ?>f the allied generals that there
is no possibility of any successful <!?>r
inan offensive anywhere in the western
lines.
The correspondent of Router's Tete
gra m Company sends from British
headquarters an interview with an un
named prominent staff ofllcer, who was
quoted as saying:
"We now have full information about
the German forces facing us. We know
their exact positions and strength. We
everywhere outnumber the Germans,
and so outnumber them in both lleltl
and heavy artillery, and our weapons
are better than theirs. We can fire;
five shells to their one. without doplet-1
inu our munitions. JVc can take their
first line of trenches whenever we wish.
"To say that we have Rot them beaten
is dangerous rubbish, but the truth is. i
we have Kot them ready for a heating."!
II10 It I. IN HKPORTS DKSTItl CTION
OF AMMU NITION II10 POT
HIOIlLIN', January 12 (via I.ondon).? |
An ammunition depot in the southern
section of I.ille, Northern France,1 has
been blown up. An official announce-1
ment says that seventy persons w?.*ro
killed and forty injured. Considerable1
damage to properly was done.
FHKNtll IIF.TAtllMFNT I,AMIS
ON liltr.Ch ISI.AM) OK ( (?Ul'l !
I.ONOOX, January IA French do- J
tachment has been landed on the Greek:
Island of Corfu for provisional occupa
tion, according to im Alliens dispatch!
to Router's. Fourteen ships of un-1
known nationality arc cruising around]
i ,'orfu.
VON BUELOW SUMMONED j
Former (ierinii?? Cliancellor Cnlled to!
IterIfii on \ccoiiiiI of Kaisrr'N
nines*.
PA HIS. January 12. ?A Home dis
patch to the lotirnnl says it has heen :
learned from tie Imke of Adragna,
iirotber of the wife of Prince von Hue- !
low, former Gcrrian Chancellor, that on |
account of Kmptror William's Illness ;
the prince has been summoned sud- j
denly to Berlin from Switzerland where
be has been staying for several
months. !
Cold Wave
'I he Wen I her lltirmti last iilalit
isNiled the follow lilac bulletin:
Temperature will fall to alioiil in
degree* In the Interior iinil IB de
mree.s on the const Frldtiy luiirniiiK.
NO SIGN OF CHANGE
IN MEXICAN POLICY
Developments at Washington
During Day in New Mexican Case
H IiiiI ?iin actiinllji ilinif lit WsikIi
Inuton J cster?ln> In (lie )li'\li'iiu
situation may In* III us siimmnrl/.c i| t
I. Sfi-rrliirj of Stntc i.iiusluix sent
tliroirSih I lie > ullriJ Slnlm consul til
((ut-nt taro a formal ??renocst" tin
Ciiri iiiiy.ii that t lir perpetrators of
flu- '?ilastnrilly crime" he pursued
it 11 tl punished.
Word nn* pvi-flvril from (lir
Vmerlenii consul nt I'M I'll no Hint
<'nrrnitv.il troops nrc already In pur
still of the murderers, nail (lint the
lioilli'H of the kIiiIii Ainrrli'iuiN Mere
lirinK unit to i:i I'iimo, lis tlie State
Department rei| nested.
:?. Decision uas made lit Hie state
Depart mriit lo snlimlt all t li?? facts
to flic Senate. Icniinu to ( oir.rress
tlie ili-trrnilnntliiii of whether liny
clinncr of policy Is ilcniiliiilcil.
I. 'I'lierc n:m a sensational aiut
lirenU In the Semite of 11 storm ??f
iodic nation. nnil piisslnuntc ileum mis
Tor n r me a I intervention. lint thr
course of I lie uilmintxtriiftnii Is not
without Its ilei'cniler.s.
5. In several inuirtcrs eonslilera
tlon was !ti\rn to l lie NiiKitrslInn
that ??armed en-operalIon" lie nO'creil
t nrran/.a In lion ol" actual Intcrvcn
t:??n. the latter eo'irse appearing ln?
possllile In i lew of tlie President's
recognition of the t'ltrriiiizn umrra
nient.
<S. 'I'wo resolutions?liotli calling:
for arnieil Intervention?were In
t roiluceil, In tlie Semite hy Senatur
Sherman. of Illinois: In tlie House liy
Representative lljrr, of Missouri.
7. Secretary ljuuxlut; empliusl/.eil
the illfrereiice lietwren tlie rlKhts of
merlcnns In lielllcreront ships on
the hlc.h sens anil their rights on
forelKii soil?l?y way of explaining
why Americans have liecn wnrneil
to keep out of Mexico, nail not
warned to keefi olT liclliuercnt pas
senger ships.
LOPEZ. VILLA CHIEFTAIN,
E
Twenty Bandits Attack Train, While
21)1) .More Stand lJy as
Reserve Force.
DKATH IdST IXC'HUASHl) TO 1!>
I 1
Thomas i?. Holmes, Sole American
Survivor of Outrage. Reaches Bor
der in State of Collapse?Tells of
Mis K.vperiences.
Kl. PASO. TKX., .lauuary 12.?The!
? number of forciiriiers murdered west i>r
"
Santa Ysabel <?n Monday afternoon by
, Mexican bandits was placed at nineteen
lata to-day. It was authoritatively;
: staled that General Pablo Lopez. a
| Yaqui chieftaid, closely allied with
i General Francisco Villa. ordered the
' massacre. About twenty bandits at
tacked the train, it was said, while 200
i were grouped as a reserve at one side
} of the right of way.
Arrivals fi:om Chihuah ..a City said
! that a troop train of twenty cars, con
veying between 500 and 1.000 Carranza
? troops, had preceded the mining' coni
? pany special by about fifteen minutes,
i The engine and two cars of Jhis train
were said to have been derailed by the
bandits, in order to stop the passenger
train of Americans. What became of
; the Carran::a soldiers, if they were in
i the military train, could not be learned
' here.
? tti:\ isi:i> i.ist
OK THIS CASH VI.TI1SK
A revised list of the casualties fol
| lows:
(II. Watson. Kl Paso.
\V. J. Wallace. Kl I'aso.
M I!. Itoiucro, 101 Paso,
j T. M. Kvans, Chihuahua City.
; C. A. Pringle. San Francisco.
! Maurice Anderson, Chihuahua.
It. P. Macilatlon. Kl I'aso.
; A t'ouch, Chihuahua City.
| It. W. Coy, Kl I'aso.
j Alexander O. llall. Douglas. Ariz.
J Charles Wadleigh. Bishee. Ariz
1, K. 1>. Robinson. Kl Paso.
! G. W. Newman. Kl Paso.
! C. W. Haze. Miami, Ariz.
j I!. II. Simmons, Kl Paso.
W. I"). Pearce, J.os Angeles,
j .1. W. Woom. Kl Paso.
Thomas Johnson, address^ unknown.!
I Joe Kriders, Hayden. Ariz.
| ltomero was a Mexican: Couch a Cn
| nadlan and Itobinson an Knglishinnn.
Thomas It. Holmes, the sole American
j survivor of the massacre, reached the
I border here about noon in a state of,
collapse. ;
; hoi.miss <;ivi:s v Kit si ox
KOIt STATIC OKI* A IITtl ISN'T j
Following is tlie statement of Mr.
'Holmes, as given to the State Depart-]
intent and press to-night:
"Our train left Chihuahua City Men-j
j day morning, .lauuary 10, at about 11 !
| o'clock. The train was slopped at or j
about the ranch llatza, a point about !
live miles west of Santa Ysabel. be-]
i tween 1:30 and 2 o'clock that after-;
i noon. While the train was st;.tiding -
| at the station of Santa Ysabel two
j tinned Mexicans rode by and scrutin
! I zed Dio train. The Mexican passcn
| gets at Santa Ysabel told me after
! wards that the riders had inquired if,
I there were any soldiers on the train.
| At the point of the massacrc our train
| was stopped in a cut, so that the last
[car was just inside of the cut. We
were stopped ^ by another train --the;
I front truck of one of the coal cars of
| which was seen to he off the track.
! This was the. Ilrst we knew of a train
I preceding us. There was nobody to be
I set n around the train in front.
'"When our train was stopped New-.
| man and I were sitting together, and
Kvans came up and looked out oY our
I window. Kvans, New o,an, Machaltnn
j ami I then got off the train. Watson,
j was either getting off or about to do
I ho behind us when 1 looked hack and.
saw him.
, 11 ISA US \OI.I.IS\ OK SHOTS
\S HIS A I.It, IMS KICO.1l I'ltAIN'
".lust after alighting I heard a voliey
of rifle shots from a point on the other'
pide of the cut and just above the tra'n.!
l.ookiug around, I could see a bunch:
[of about twelve or fifteen men stand-j
ing in a solid line, shonl.ler to shoul- j
der. shooting directly at us. They w?rc!
tift.v to seventy-five feci away. The'
conch cut off my view, so I could not i
:??>?? how many bandits there were. T*
(Continued on Second Page.)
ACT OF MEXICAN BANDITS
stius ii of cores
Intervention Itegimleri as Inevitable
I'nless Cnrraii/.n Can (Jive Pro
tection to Foreigners.
I.MMKD1ATK ACTION l)KM.\M)KD
General Spirit of Ilesentment Aroused
by Latest Atntrity, Which Most
Conservative Lenders Kind It Har<l
to Restrain.
WASHINGTON", January 12.- -Con
gross was swept by a wave of Impas
sioned indignation to-day over the kill
ing nf American citizens l>y Mexican
bandits near Chihuahua. Demands for
action came from minority members,
and while the administration leaders
counselled patience, even Senator Stone,
chairman of the Senate Foreign Rela
tions Committee, admitted that if Car
ranza, after a fair trial, failed to pro
j tect foreigners in Mexico, intervention
was inevitable.
The atmosphere was surcharged
with excitement when the Senate and
| House met, and the storm broke
'(Illicitly. Senator Sherman. Republican,
of Illinois, introduced a resolution to
express the sense of Congress that
there should be intervention hy tlio
United States and Can-American na
tions unless Genernl Carranra could
comply at once with a demand that he
protect the liven and property of for
eigners. In the House. Representative
Dyer, of Missouri, offered a resolution
asking President Wilson if lie did not
think the time had arrived to abandon
I "watchful waiting" and inv ade Mexico.
' S1*1 It IT OK Itl?H\'niHXT
Allot Sl<:i) in ATHOCITV
, The resolutions were not acted upon.
! until being referred to llie Korelgn Af
I fairs Committees. I'tut there was
aroused by the latest Mexican atrocity
a genernl spirit of resentment that
; most conservative loaders found it
jdifllcult to restrain. Senators Galllnger
jand Borah, on the Republican side of
the upper house, echoed the terms of
the Sherman resolution, which declared
that the Carranza government appeared
powerless to cope with the lawlessness
in Mexico, and declared intervention the
I only alternative, unless reparations for
itlie Chihuahua outrage were speedily
! ma.le, and the de facto government
showed itself capable of controlling the
sit nut ion.
Senator Stone urged patriotic sup
port of the President and patient for
bearance until the experiment of try
ing out tiie Carranza government
jshould prove a failure.
| "If Cnrransn proves himself inefll
| cient.f! h<- added, however, "if he is
1 unable to punish criminal!' and to in
sure safety to foreigners in Mexico,
i I think with the Senator from Idaho.
Mr. liqrah. that there is only one thing
t > do. and that is to go down there
armed and intervene."
PtrtlUiK.S Oil. INT KitKSTS
with it ics ro\m it ii, it v
Senator Thomas, of Colorado", also
advised against intervention oxcepi us
an unavoidable resort, declaring that
the United States neve ? would get out
of Mexico if its armies crossed the Rio
Grande. lie made a speech assailing
the Standard Oil Company and the
Pearson oil Syndicate, charging that
those interests through rival efforts to
monopolize the oil properties in Mex
ico, had been responsible for the revo
lutions of that country and for strife!
alonp the honh r.
Senator Sherman's resolution prompt
ed Senator Galllnger to lend a tele
?ram from Judge I,. W. Holmes, of New
Hampshire, asking that everything pos
sible ho don<- to locate his son. Thomas!
R. Holmes, only surviving member of
the group of Americans attacked by j
the Mexican bandits near Chihuahua.]
T?ater announcing that Holmes had been!
located, the N* >w Hampshire Senator
remarked that the time certainly had |
ennie for conclusive action In Mexico, j
Senator Stone expressed the belief j
that the bandits committed murders
deliberately to embarrass the Carranza
government. He asked Senator Gal
llnger what he world have the United
Stales do.
NO DKNIItK TO KM It A It It,\ MS
WII.SOV A IMtlXISTItATION
Senator Galllnger replied with assur
ances that he had no desire to em
barrass the ndmlnls'r.-ition in the Mex
ican crisis, but said he thought t tic j
time had now come when atrocities ]
(Continued on Second Page.)
U. S.DEIWANDS
THAT CARRANZA
PUNISH BANDITS
Formally Called Upon to'
Pursue and Capture Per
petrators of Crime.
ONLY ACTION IN CASE
INDICATED TO THIS TIME
Outrage Draws Outburst of At
tacks Upon Administra
tion in Congress.
LANSING ISSUES STATEMENT
Deplores That Americans D?! Not
Heed Warning Against Exposing
Lives in Warfare District.
WASHINGTON, January 12.?Thorn
was no indication to-ni^ht that the
United States would take any further
action in the case of '.he Americans
executed by Villa bandits in Mexico
beyond its demand Tor the apprehension
and punishment of the outlaws, or. at
the most, to hold General ("arraiiza re
sponsible for the murders, if it is
shown that his olHcers were negligent
in providing: protection for the party.
| Although the latest outrage stirred
.the Mexican situation again to the
' boiling point and drew an outburst of
attacks upon the administration in
Congress, probably nnerpialed since fhe
Huerta crisis, two years ago. there was
?no outward si?n that ('resident Wilson
vas being influenced to niter his policy.
I A proposal by Senator Sherman, ite
'? publican, for joint intervention by the
! rail-American nations, which led in the
I recognition of General Oarranxa, was
referred without action to tlie Senate
i Foreign Relations Committee.
j KVHitY STEP WII.I. 1IK TAKIj.V
TO PUNISH PIOH PIOTlt A TO It 3
j While Secretary Lansing In a state
ment announced tliat "every step will
j be taken to see that the perpet.rators
] of this dastardly crime are apprehended
and punished," he added that it was
to be deplored that Americans had not
heeded the State Department's warning
airalnst exposing their lives in the
guerilla warfare territory. In defining
the light of Americans in territory
under the sovereignty of another na
tion, he declared that a noncombataut
j runs the danger of losing his liberty
or his lift- if lie ventures into territory
where the authority is uncertain.
Although the attacks in Congress
I upon President Wilson's policy w.jro
! almost unmeasured in terms, the ad
j ministration was not without defenders
j among the I >etttocru t ie lenders, who
?challenged their critics to point out u
! belter course, and recalled that during
| the Taft administrati'.Mi resolutions
I proposing intervention -vere vigorously
1 opposed by the llepu'-'icans.
j The most significant development of
I the congressional debate came , in the
I Senate, where Chairman Stone, of the
j Foreign Relations Committee, himself
ja Democrat, declared that If General
jCarranzn proved himself unfit to restore
(order, "there is only one thing to do.
janil that is to no down there armed
I and intervene."
j For the present In* counseled leaving
I the situation in the hands of President
J Wilson.
j l.ANSIXtPS ST.tTHMHNT
I 'O.M KKMM; S IT I ATI O X
J Secretary Lansing's statement fo;
l lows:
"In October the department -nt the
j strongest kind of Instructions to ehe
| consuls in the Suites of t'hihuahtia and
jSonoin, calling upon I hem to use every
? means in their power to persua le
J Americans m leave immediately for
? I'nited States territory, and these c.ui
i suls we e instructed to employ spe
cial riders to carrj this message to
Americans located in isolated sections.
i A few came out. Some, regardless of
the disturbed conditions existing in
i Mexico, did not heed the warning.
"It was only two or three weeks
'ago that Villa detained thirty A merl
[cans in the very district in which the
unfortunate Americans now reported
killed met their death. Great alarm
was f-lt for the safety of these thirty
Americans. Kecentlv the Vlilistas are*
said to have stated that they would
kill Americans ii. Chihuahua territory,
in order to force American interven
tion.
"Within the past week or ten days
three employees of the Hearst rareh
in Chihuahua, near the place where
Americans are now reported slain, weso
reported to have been executed. Two
of these three employees made their
appearance at Kl Paso some days ago,
bnt the third appears to have been
killed.
"The department feels that It took
every possible precaution to prevent
Americans from exposing their lives in
a region where guerilla warfare is ;n
progress. It In to be deplored that Its
advice was not followed.
"Kvery step will be taken to see that
the perpetrators of tills dastardly
crime are apprehended and punished '
SHKIIMA X ItKSOI.I'TlOX
CAI.1.S FOR JOINT ACTION"
Senator Sherman's resolution read*
as follows:
"Whereas, Mexico in now and has fuf
several year < been rent with civil
strife, which In the absence of any
