Tron County Register
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY.
v- subscription:
One Year, 1 1.50. Six Months, 90.75.
RATES OF ADVERTISING
furniihed on Application. Special In
ducements to Home Patront.
State Historical
Addreea rsoister, iroatoa, moIivulUME XLIX.
gHHHHnEIIMHMHIi
It is Wonderf ul"
says Mrs. j. Sondergaard, of Dannebrog, Nebr.. in
writing her praise for Cardui, the woman's tonic She
says further: "Cardui has helped me so much.. I used
to be bothered with fainting spells and weakness,
caused from womanly troubles, but since taking Cardui
I feel so much better. It also gave me great relief at
another serious time. . There is no other medicine to
compare with Cardui."
If suffering from any of the ailments so common
to women, don't wait but begin at once to take
Y4
3
The Woman's Tonic
Card-u-l has-been building weak women back to'
strength and "health for over 50 years, as is proven
by the thousands of letters we receive similar to the
above. What Cardui has done for so many other
women it will surely do for you. Get a bottle from
your nearest druggist today. Vou won't regret it
For Womanly Weakness.
4
&HHHHHHMM
Con. Roach Tells 'Em.
, (Jasper County Democrat.)
The readers of the Democrat may be
interested in a side-light that is rath
er out of the ordinary. Some time
, ago acertaineoterie of "standpatters"
not being able to criticise anything
done in the conduct of the state af
fairs, conceived the idea of criticising
the personnel of the people who are
rendering a public service above
criticism, and so they started the cry
of "nepotism." All kinds of misrepre
sentations were scattered over the
State, the Globe-Democrat leading
the van with the false report that the
. state officers had their wives with the
rest of the family on the payroll.
'Among others that innocently re
peated the salacious morsel of politi
cal gossip was the Missouri Ruralist,
published at Kansas City.
The 'Secretary of State addressed
,,'the following letter to the able editor
of that popular periodical; ,
- , , November 10th, 1915.
Hon. John F. Case, ;
Editor Missouri Ruralist,
Kansas City, Missouri.
Dear Friend Case I have just read
yonr last issue of the esteemed
"Ruralist." I know, you would not
do me an intentional harm. . I write,
therefore, to correct the Impression
you leave on the minds of your readers
when you say: . .-
"roBsiDiy wnen one Has so large a
family as the estimable secretary
possesses, he may, not consider a
quartet of daughters asserted to be
the number employed as deputies and
clerks (on the State's payroll) as
numerous."
Iam blessed with nine daughters
and four sons. Conscienceless parti
, san opponents have spread the re
port that the whole family, including
my wife, are on the State's payroll.
I have not denied the rumor because
I knew no friend of mine would" be
- lieve such a report, nor have I thought
strangers and political enemies would
give credit to charges of such scand
alous character. Such charges : will
react on the accusers.
However, esteeming your friend
ship, I shall take the time to give you
a full report on how my family are
. employed.
My eldest daughter (Number 1)
Is earning her living teaching school,
as her father and. mother both before
her did when they first engaged in
v life's battle. '
Number 2 Is married and living with
her husband at Fort Wayne, Indiana,
where he, as ail electrical engineer,
, and, with her knowledge of household
arts, can make more than they can
here. .
Number 8 Is taking a course in
household economics at Columbia,
preparing herself for her life work
and fitting herself to be the house
wife of a Missouri farmer. That makes
- three of the family not on the payroll
of the State. v'
Number i is an employee in the of
floe over which I preside. She is .a
' i High School graduate, an aocomplish
led stenographer and typewriter, a
j,good penman, bookkeeper, and copy
ist, an experienced proof reader and
typesetter, ha charge of the com
pilation and printing of official publlca
plone such as the road laws, corpora
.t;ion laws and famous Missouri "Blue
Book," the exoellenoe of which is so
universally known as to need no com
mendation. She Is always at her post
. of duty, is as valuable an employee to
the department as the state has, it so
acknowledged by every one of the of
ficial investigators, both republioan
and democrat, and I have absolutely
no apology to make to anyone for her
employment. She earns her wage,
and, so long as I live and have my
senses, no daughter, or son, of mine
shall be proscribed, penalized, or de
nied privileges common to other
citizens for no other reason than that
J am their father. I sacrificed no
P. P. AKE, Publisher.
.Historical Society
natural, moral or legal right to secure
office, and before I make any such
sacrifice I'll first "pass up" the office.
Number 6 is a student in ,the Jeffer
son City High School from which she
will graduate next year. She is not
on the payroll, but helps to earn her
living by setting type and giving
musio lessons.
Number 6 is a son, a freshman in
tiign school. He helps to earn his
board and clothes by carrying news
paper routes morning and evening.
arising at live o'clock a. m. each day
wnuuuii uemg canea. ue is not on
the pay roll of the State.
JNumber 7,1s a girl in the eighth
grade of the city school. Her con
tribution to the family exchequer is
as a fancy candy maker- The State is
not on her list of patrons. ' "
Numoer S is a son in the fifth school
grade and his brother, number 9, is in
the third grade. These boys are
agents .for the "Saturday Evening
Post," the "Country Gentleman" and
6uch periodicals. They are not on the
State payroll.
Number 10 entered school this year.
He has an ambition to be the editor of
an agricultural paper and will be
trained to be too suspicious of reports
started by political candidates to give
them space in his paper.
Number 11 and 12 are twin girls too
young to enter school or be entered
on the State" payroll. All they ask
or expect, is fair play for "daddy,"
whose favorites they are,
Number 13 was a year old the 10th
instant. She doesn't expect to get on
the State payroll until after her
father's term as Governor has ex
pired. ,
Number 14 is the good wife herself
Sewing on buttons, mending socks,
making up beds, helping with the
washing and ironing, selecting prop
erly balanced rations, etc., make life
sufficiently interesting for her. She
is not on the State payroll, but has
her opinion of the fiends who spread
ouuu reports. 11 sne were a man
somebody would get hurt.
Now, Brother Case, there is the
whole story. I don't believe your
hand, or the hand of the -public, es
pecially that great body of farmers
constituting your readers, is against
industry, efficiency and honesty,
though these traits may be found in a
State official with a large family an
official so ambitious as to aBpire to
an office others may try to purchase
with filthy lucre and mendacity rather
than with honest service.
. Yours very truly,
Cornelius Roach.
The editor of the Ruralist of course
made correction. Editorially in the
next Issue, among other things of
Secretary rRoacb, he said.' '
"Few men in publio and private life
are more dependable. , Probably few
persons have given credit to the as
sertion that the whole family was on
the State payroll, but few would ques
tion the truth of the assertion that
four out of a family of thirteen were.
That would be a small per cent com
pared with other records. No public
official can rightly be censured for
hiring a relative as competent as Miss
Roach has proved herself to be, and
no one would expect him to discbarge
Everybody in Carthage, where most
of the Koach children wera horn. 1
. f ' 1
knowthit every child Is taught to
work, and they all know what it means
to labor for a living. Their father's
eleetlon'tp an pfflce with a modest
salary did not in the slightest particu
lar change the habits of any member
. .
of the family. They are resigned to tnereof (if the term shall so long con
accept the life of labor to which they ' ?fnuttLB,;ddnot, ihen, bcJforo tho end
nave all been elected. The one that
works for the State does not feel dis-
grucBu Decause sne nas to worK noi
more or less than anv of the others i
Th..ii w ! . I ' "I
They all work, don't care who .know
it, and are not worried about the
opinion 01 those that look down on
people oooaubo they have to work for
allvimr 1 UBVe 10 wont Ior,
SilV,ng; '
: "
IRONTON. MO., THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 1916.
Obituary.
On December 31, 1915, the Angel of
Heaven descended and took away
our beloved friend, William D. Strick
lin, better known as "Uncle Billy."
He wag born December 30, 1837, near
Pilot Knob, Mo. The old brother was
78 years and one day old. He . was
matried September 13, 1860, to Talitha
Davis. To this union there were born
three children. One son and two
daughters; the two . daughters ' and
wife still survive him. The son was
called away during his infancy.
Brother Stricklin was once a member
of the Missionary Baptist Church, and
the Church going down he did not
transfer his membership to any other
church.
The brother said he was prapared t6
go. Mr. Stricklin has been a citizen
of this community for several years.
He was buried in the Stricklin Ceme
tery on his farm. The funeral service
was conducted by Arthur Francis. '
There is a vacancy . in his chair that
can not be filled. To the dear old
mother who hag but a .very short time
here to stay, may God be' with 'her
and give ber peace and comfort the
rest of her days is my prayer! .
' -' '. A FRIEND.
Edgehill, Mp., January 3, 1916.
; NANNIE WALKER
A cknowledoments taken, Deeds of
all kinds written, and other Legal
Papers prepared. Copying on Type
writer solicited.. Will be found at
home, north of brick hotel, corner of
Shepherd and Wayne streets, -
IHONTON. XdCO.
Order of Publication.
In the Circuit Court of Iron County, Mis-
soun, in vacation. December 17, ior.";,
The State of Missouri, at the relation and
to the use of a. r. Burnham, Collector
oi the Revenue of Iron County, Mis
souri,
against
W. Kerr, Arthur Huff, Elias Kemp,
Alfred H. Shy, Joseph C Moyer, J. S.
Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin Davis, Eras-
tus G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis King
ana vv. j. liiianas, it living, or the un
known heirs and devisees of Elias
Kemp, Alfred H, Shy, Joseph C. Moy
en I. S. Jordan. John Efaw. Calvin
Davis, Erastus G, Loomis, Jessie Loom
is King and W. J, Hilands, if they be
aeaa, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lieri for Taxes.)
Now at this dav comes the blaintiff . B.
, Burnham, Colfeeror of the Revenue of
iron county, Missouri, ana hies his pett
tion and affidavit, setting forth among
other things, that the defendants, Elias
Kemp, Altred li. bhy, Joseph u Moyer.
a. joraan, jonn .taw, uaivm Davis.
Erastus G. Loomis. Jessie Loomis King
ana vv.j. nuanas, are non-residents ot
the State of Missouri, and that they can
not be served with summons in said
State.
Plaintiff states that the defendants, Eli
as Kemp, Alfred H. Shy, Joseph C.
Moyer, J. b. Jordan, John, tfaw, Calvin
Davis, Erastus G. Loomis, Jesie Loomis
King ana w. J. Hilands,
have not been heard of for many years
that plaintiff is not informed whether
they be living or dead; that if they b'
dead their heirs, or it they died leaving
will, their devisees are interested in tile
subject matter of this petition: that the
names ot such heirs or devisees, or both.
Cannot be inserted herein because they
are unknown to plaintiff; that the said
Elias Kemp, Alfred H. Shy, Joseph C.
Moyer, J. S. Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin
Davis, Erastus G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis
King ana vv. j. i-iuaiias
Were the record owners of the land de
scribed herein, but plaintiff has no infor
mation except as herein stated of the na
ture of the interest and estate in said land
owned by said
Elias Kemp, Alfred H, Shy, Joseph C,
Moyer, J. S. Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin
Davis, Erastus G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis
King and W. J. Hilands,
and, therefore, is unable to particularly
ucMiiue uie same, anu inai in me event
of the death of the said Elias Kemp, Al
fred H. Shy, Joseph C. Moyer, J. S. Jor
dan, John Efaw, Calvin Davis, Erastus
G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis King and W.
J. Hilands, their said heirs and devisees
have.'.by descent or devise, succeeded to
the said interest and estate of the said
Elias Kemp, Alfred H. Shy, Joseph C.
Moyer, J. S, Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin
Davis, Erastus G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis
King and W. 1. Hilands.
from whom their interest in the property
i j :i i i j i
iicicui ucm;iiucu is uenveu. .
It is, therefore, ordered by the Clerk
of the Circuit Court of Iron County, Mis
souri, in vacation, that publication be
made notifying said defendants that an
action has been commenced against them
in the Circuit Court of said county, the
object and general nature of which is to
enforce the lien of the State of Missouri
on the following real estate, belonging to
the said defendants, for back taxes for the
years 19 io, 1911, 191a and 1913, to-wit:
l ne soutnwest quarter ot the southeast
quarter of section 18. township u. north.
of range j east, 40 acres; the southwest
quarter of the southwest quarter of sec
tion 28, township 32, north, of range 3
east, 40 acres all in Iron Countv, Mis
souri. - -,
(An itemized statement in the nature
01 a tax
bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and cost now due on said
real estate ior the years aforesaid,
niff " we aggregate to the sum
0 Bfrtoen and 6(3-100 dollars, is filed with
sum pennon as proviuea oy law.)
, And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said eourt to be holden for
the county of Iron, and state of Mis
souri, at the court house in said county
on the fourth Monday in April next.
j ivw, auiA vu ui uuiuie Hie iiniru oay
demur to said pWnt,'fl-.Uh
same will be taken as confessed, W-
' me M91IUI. ana meaa. answer or
111 "Kl:uruam;e Wlul lne
nrayer ' 9aid petition, and said real
estate, or so much thoreof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interests and costs, 'be sold under a
"l"'"' ""- e lamiea tnereon. t
i . VlV u ,. wi;y
hereof be published; according to law in
thelron County Register, a weekly
OUR OOD, CUR COUNTRY AND TRUTH.
newspaper published in said county of
Tr. . .1 ...... A ., , If .' - .
uuij, aim Bidw ui iniaouui i. '
JESSE M. HAWKINS,
, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the rocord:
Witness my hand and official seal, this
. luealj iin aay oi uecemDer, iyio
JES3E M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication. .
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, December 18, 1SH5
The fatate of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. P. Bumham
Collector of the Revenue of Iron
County, Missouri,
against
Henry Schlueter, if living; or, if he be
dead, then MoHie' v Schlueter, Charles
Bcniueter ana wnnam Schlueter,
sole heirs at law of Henry Schlueter,
ueceasea, aeienaants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.
Now at this day comes the Dlaintiff.
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
01 iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and aliidavit, setting forth
among other things, that the defendant
nenry scniueter, , :
is a non-resident of the State of Mis
soun, and that he . cannot be served
with summons msaid State: it is there
fore, ordered by the clerk of the circuit
court 01 iron county, Missouri, in vaca-
fcion, that publication be made notifying
said defendant that an action has been
commenced against him m the circuit
court of said county, the obiect an
general nature of which is to enforco
the lien of the State of Missouri on the
following real estate, belonging to said
defendants for back taxes for the years
1910, 1911, 1912 and 1913, to-wit:
Lot ? in block 6 in the Town of Pilot
Knob, Missouri, as the same appears on
tne piai 01 saia uown ot Juot Knob,
Missouri, on file in the office of the Rr
eorder of Deeds for Iron county, Mis
suuii. iraci iNo. .a jot-s ana I in
block 20 in the Town of Pilot Knob
Missouri, as the same appears on the
piai 01 saia Town 01 .filoc Knob, Mis
souri, on file in the office of the Record
er 01 Deeds for Iron countv. Missouri-
all of said land being in Iron county.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on said
real estate for the years aforesaid
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of twenty-two and02-l0o dollars.is filed
wiin said petition as provided bv law.)
Anu unless tney De and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for
the county of Iron, and state of Mis.
souri, at the court house in said county
on :tne iourcn iaonaav m adhi next.
1916, and on or before the third dav
thereof (if the term shall so lonar
continue; and, if not, then before the
end of the term), and plead, answer or
aemur to said plamtitt's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment ienaerea in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisiy said mdgment,
interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon
It is further ordered that a ctrnv here
of be published according to law in the
ikon uounty KEGISTER, a weekly news
paper puoiisnea in saia county 01 iron
and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS,
Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record:
Witness my hand and official seal, this
sealj jtn day ot December, 1915,
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron County, Mo.
Order of Publication.
STATE OF MISSOURI, )
COUNTY OF IRON. )
In the Piobate Court for the County of Iron,
iNovemDer term, 1915.
Harriet J. Polk, Administratrix, in charge
01 me estate 01 Charles K. FoJk, deceas
ed. Harriet J. Polk JAdrainistratrix in charge
01 me estate 01 uiasles K. I"olk. de-
ceased, presents to the Court her Petition,
praying lor an order tor trie sale of so
much of the Real Estate of said deceased
as will pay and satisiy the remaining debts
due -Dy said fcstate and yet unpaid for
want of sufficient assets, accompanied bv
me accounts, Lists and inventories requir
ed Dy law in such case; on examination
whereof, It is ordered, that all persons in
terested in the hslate of said deceased be
notified that application as aforesaid has
been made, and unless the contrary be
shown on or before the first day of the
next term of this Court, to be held on the
second Monday in February next, an
order will be made for the sale of the whole
or so much of the Real Estate of said de
ceased as will be sufficient for the payment
ui saia aeots. ,
And it is further ordered. That this notice
be published in the Iron County Regis
ter ,a weekly newspaper published in this
County and State, for four weeks before the
next term of this Court.
STATE OF MISSOURI, ) ac
COUNTY of iron. 1
I, O. W. Roop, ludee of the Probate
Court held in and for said County, hereby
ceruiy mat me loregoing is a true copy of
uic unguiai urtier 01 ruDiication therein
eterred to, as the same anoears of record
in my office. . 1
Witness my hand and seal of said Court.
LSEM.J Done at office in Ironton, Mo.,
this 9th day of November, A. D,
I9I5-
O. W. ROOP.
Judge of Probate,
Order of Publication.
STATE OF MISSOURI, 1 '
COUNTY OF IRON. I
In the Circuit Court, April Term, i9i5,
D. fcdgar Metcher, Plaintiff,
versus ,
W, H. Eaton, M. S. Eaton, B. Z. Eaton,
A. F. Eaton, J. S. Eaton, Myra F. Ad
ams, Flora May Eaton, 1. N. Eaton, Ella
Eaton, Sadie Riley, heirs of A. H. Eat
on, deceased, and Arthur C. Carson, de
fendants, The Stale of Missouri to the above named
Delendants, Greeting:
You" are herehv notifiedthat nn a ntinn lias
been commenced Biriini vou in th r'inl
Couit nf !,.rK, ,.1 : .u. ci.,..
following described lots, tracts, or parcels
niistniirt. ir.r ih nm. i - .1-
ot land, lying, being and situated in the
County of Iron, and State of Missouri, to
wh
The northeast quarter of the southeast
quarter, and the west one-half of thesouth-
west quarter of section fifteen, do
and
lne welil one-han 01 section twenty-tw
- all in township thirty-four, (34),
of rango one (1) east; antf the m
half of section tbirty-four, (31, township
thirty-five, (35), north, of range one (1)
west, containing, in ali, 760 acres, more or
less;
And which Said action is returnable on
the first day of the next term of said Court,
to be held at the Court House in the City
of Ironton, in the County of Iron, and State
ot Missouri, when and where you may ap
pear and defend such action; otherwise
Flaintitf's petition will be taken as confessed
and judgment rendered accordingly.
Ana it is lurlher ordered that a copy
nereot ne published, according to law,
tne iron bounty I4EG1STER, a newspaper
published in said County of Iron for four
weeks, successively, published at least once
a week, the last insertion to be at least
thirty days before the first day of said next
Apiu lerm ot this Court.
J. M. HAWKINS, Circuit Cleik.
A true copy from the record-:
Witness my hand and seal of the Cir
(seal) cuit Court of Iron County, this
Ibihdayof December, 1915.
J. M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
Order of Publication.
In the Circuit Court of Iron Countv.
Missouri, in Vacation, December 17,
i9i5.
The State of Missouri, at the relation
ana to the use ot c. P. Burnham,
collector 01 the Kevenue of iron
County, Missouri, 1
- atrainst
Nathan Montgomery, Jordan J. Mont
gomery, ttooerc m. fctevenson, John
Morris, Thomas Morris and Thomas
Moore, if living: or the unknown
consort, heirs and devisees of Nathan
Montgomery, Jordan J. Montgomery,
Robert M. Stevenson, John Morris,
Thomas Morris and Thomas Moore, if
tney oe dead, aeienaants, , ,
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this dav comes tho nlaintiff
a. uumham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, sottintr forth
among other things, that the defendants,
Nathan Montgomery, Jordan J. Mont
gomery, Robert M. Stevenson, John
Morns, Thomas Morris and Thomas
Moore are
non-residents of tho state of Missouri,
and that they cannot be ' served with
summons in said state; it is there
fore ordored by the clerk of the cir
cuit court of Iron countv. Missouri, in
vacation, that publication bo made
notifying said defendants that an
action has been commenced against
hira in tho circuit court of said county,
the object and general nature of which
is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the following real estate,
belonging to the said defendants for
back taxes for the years i910. 19li,
19i2 and ii)l3, to-wit;
The northwest quarter of the south
west quarter of the northeast quarter of
section 2H, township ili, north, of range
4 east,,iO acies, in Iron county, Mis
souri. (An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, Interest and coat now due on said
real entato for the years aforesaid.
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of five and 48-iOC dollars, ia. Mod
with said petition as provided by law.) 1
TERMS ti. 50 a-Year In Advance.
' '
NUMBER 32.
FOR-
And unless they be and appear at
the next term of said court to be holden
for tho county of Iron, and state of
Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in
April, next, i9i6, and on or before
the third day thereof (if the term shall
so long continue; and, if- not, then
before tho end of the term), and plead,
answer or demur to said plaintiff's
petition, the same will be taken as
confessed, judgment rendered in accord
ance with the prayer of said petition,
and said real estate, or so much thereof
as may be necessary to satisfy said
judgment, interests and costs, be sold
unaer a special nen lacias to be issued
thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
iron county Kegister, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
aim wue ui Missouri,
JESSE M. HAWKINS,
Circuit Clerk.
A true conv from the record:
Witness my hand and official seal, this
(sealj 1 ftn day 01 Docember, i9i5
JESSE M, HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron County, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the Circuit Court of Iron Countv
Missouri, in Vacation, December iv,
I'JIO.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. P. Burnham,
Collector of the Revenue of Iron
County, Missouri,
against
Lester C. Chambers. John McAllister
and John McCallister, if living: or
the unknown heirs and devisees of
Loster C. Chambers, John McAllister
ana John McCallister.if they be dead,
ueienuants. -
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this dav comes the nlaintiff.
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things, that the defendants,
Lester C. Chambers, John McAllister
are non-residents of the state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
with summons in said state; it is there
fore, ordored by the clerk of the cirt
cuit court' of Iron county, Missouri, in
vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an action
has been commenced against them in
the circuit court of said county, the
object and general nature of which is
to enforce the lien of the stato of Mis
souri on tho following real estate, bo?
longing to the said defendants for back
laxesfor the years I9i0, i9il, I9i2,and
laid, 10-wit: : , .
The east one-half of lots one and two.
in block ten, of tho North Addition to
the City of Ironton, Missouri, as tho
same are rcm'CBentcd on the nlafc of
said North Addition to the City of Iron-
ton, Missouri, on hie In the olficoof the
Recorder of Deeds for Iron county,
Missouri.
An itemized statement in tho nature
of a tat bill showing the amount of
taxes, ilitereht and costs now due on said
real estate for tho years aforesaid, j
JOB-WORK
Best equipped Job Print
ing establishment in this
section of the State. Wt
insure satisfaction; prices
reasonable.
&sTRY US.
fiuilu
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
ui wiree ana ei-iuu dollars, is hied with
said petition as provided by law.
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for
the county of Iron, and state of Mis
souri, at the court house in said county
on the fourth Monday in April, next,
i9i6, and on or before the third day
thereof fif tha term shall 0 lnr,
continue; and, if not, then before the
euu 01 tne term;, ana pieaa, answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
Same will be taken as cnnfpoe ifl inHo..
ment rendered in accordance w"Kh the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
oovioijf Dam juumeiit,
interests and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy
hereof be published according to law in
the Iron County Register, a weekly
newspaper published in said county o'f
Iron, and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS. .
Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record:
Witness my hand and official seal, this
seal 17th day of December, i9i5.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the Circuit Court of Iron Cfmnty, Missouri, in
vacation, December 18, 1915.
The State of Missouri, at the relation and to the
use of B. P. Bumham, collector ot the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri,
aeninst
William Schmitand Wllhetm Schmit, it llvinc, or
the unknown heirs and devisees of William
Sohmit and Wilhelm Schmit,il they be dead, de
fendants. (Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this dav eomes the nlnintlir 11. P Tt,,.
ham, collector of the revenue of Iron county, ili.-
bu.ii, Hiuiiwu,, pei,niou ana nmuavlt, setting
forth aniniiK other things, that the defendunls,
William Schmit and Wilhelm Mehmlt. If living,
or the unknown heirs and devisees of Willi, m
Schinit and Wilhelm Nohwit, if they be deadj
are non-residents of the slate of Missouri, and that
tbey cannot be served wit h summons in said stale;
It is therefore ordered by the clerk of the eirrnit
court of Iron county, Mi-smiri, in vacation, that
publication be made notifying said defendants that
an action has been commenced against them in the
circuit court of asid eontuy, the otijoot and gennr. .
alnatme ot which is to enforce the lien of the
state of Missouri, on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendants for hu,-lt i... ....
the yeara 11)10, 1911, HI12 and 1013, to wit;
Lots eleven, twelve and thirteen In block 12 of
the Town OI Pilot Knob, Missouri, as .the samel
. .,u in. 10wo or j'ltot Anon, .
MiKKOuri, on nte in ohe office of the Ksoorder of
Deeds for Iron Countv, Missouri.
4 An ilemiaed statement iu tho nature ot a tat
bill showing the amount of taxes, interest
costs now dneon said real estatn for the yeara
aforesaid, amounting In the awregnte to tho sum
ot seven and 40100 dollars, la tiled with said m
tition as provided bv law.) ,
And unless they be and appear at the next term ;
of said court to be holden lor the county of Iron
and Htate of Missouri, at the eourt hon.n In ..i.t'
county on tho fourth Monday in April next.
ii'int, sno on or netnre tlie tsird day thereof (:f.
the term shall so long continue, and. IF n.
b-lore the end of the term), and plead, answer oe
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the same will' l.n
taken as confessed, jndgineut rendered in arooru.
ance with the prayer of saiil petiton and said res)
estate, or so much thereof sa mav he
satisfy said judirtnent, interest and costs, ha sold
u.ir wiMjc.iei neri iucih io ne issuei: therer.n,
It is further ordered that a copy bareot be pub
lished according to law ln the Ikon Coi-ntv liB-n.
IHTEK, a weekly newspaper published in said
eouutyof Iron, and Hlate of Missouri.
JK-srir. ui. ha kins, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record :
Witness my kand and official eal, this lHth day
of Uecomber. l!ll,". J .
(BEAU) JKSKKM. IIAWKW.4. Clerk
Circuit C'onit, Iron County, Mo. ,
