The citizen
TDTToted. to thLe Interests of tlie !Lffointa.ln People
fc&EA PUBLISHING CO.
(tnoarnATRD
wm. a ntosr. mii(w
Knowledge Is tower and the
way to keep up with modern
knowledge it to reed a good
newspaper.
C. H. WtATENBEJIGEIt,
F. . BOWMAN. Ai
BnUn4 m Uu mt aw, s, mmnmt
tUum wall wWr
Vol. XVII.
Five Cents a Copy.
ntnF.A. MADISON COUNTY. KFNTTT.KY, JANUARY 1.1. Ifllrt.
One Dollar a Year.
No. 20.
0
0
It Pays
There is no place like home.
So we all beleive and yet we never know how good
home is until we have been away.
And we never know how to improve things at home
until we have seen the things in other places with which
to make comparison.
Seeing one thing is not enough. When we see two
things and compare them we begin to study and think.
The man who travels finds out that there are differ
ent ways of doing things. He finds that in some things
his house, his team, his farm, are better than other people's
and in some things they are not so good. This gives him
a chance to improve.
It is a hardship to travel, but when you get home
from the journey you have something to think about the
rest of your life. If pays to travel.
Shoes and Roads
This is the time of year when we see the value of
good shoes and good roads.
Without these, folks have to stay at home there can
be no meetings, no going to school, and no visits, we are
almost cut off from the store and the post office, like a
woodchuck in his hole.
This is not the time of year to make roads, but it is
the time of year to take care of roads. After every rain
we should look out for repairing the road where it begins
to wash, and when the road is soft we should avoid driv
ing over it with heavy loads. These are simple things,
but if they are attended to it will affect schools and meet
ings, and good feelings among neighbors.
A PLEA FOR PEACE
A Manorial to the Members of the
Senate and Home of Representa
tivas of the United States of
America from tho Relig
ions Society of Friends
of Pennsylvania, New
Jersey, Delaware aad
Parts of Maryland.
In view of the present agitation
and propaganda for a large inrrease
In the military and naval strength
of our country, the Society of
Friends, through its Representative
Body, respectfully presents to you
the following memorial:
I. Advocates " of "preparedness"
urge national defense as the only,
Justification for their program. Ag
gressive warfare by the United
States is inconceivable, unless the
temper of the people is changed by
the existence of greater armaments.
It is our conviction that:
(a We are already defended geo
graphically by two oceans, by an un
fortified northern boundary of three
thousand miles that has proved a
sure guarantee of peace for a cen
tury, and by a southern frontier
where self-restraint and magnani
mous patience have maintained
peace in the face of extreme provo
cation. (h The citizens of the United
Stales nre a composite people of
many racial strains. We are con
nected so intimately by ties of blood
and sympathy with all the nations
of the old world that public opinion
would make a war with any of the
great wers practicnlly impossible.
These international bonds are a
CONTENTS
PAGE i. Editorials: It Pays to Trav
el. Shoes and Stockings. A Plea
for Peace. Our Own State News.
United States News. World
and War News.
PAGE 2. University Column. Col
lege Column. Academy Column.
Normal Column. Vocational
Column. Foundation Column.
PAGE 3. Serial: Lahoiua. Interna
tional Sunday School Lesson.
PAGE 4. Locals.
PAGE 5. I .oon I News. Literature
for the Rural Schools.
PAGE . Mountain Agriculture.
Limo for Agricultural Purposes.
Program Conway Improve
ment Club.- Cincinnati Markets.
Home Department. ivar House
keepers Who Read The Citizen.
Child Labor Day popular
Young Folks Department.
PAGE 7. Public Land Sule.
PAGE S. East Kentucky News.
Poem: Pasture Lauds.
)
There are people who would like
to have their names in the local col
umn each week and yet they be
grudge the dollar that tho paper
costs on which it must bo printed.
Every home in Iterea should have
The Citizen if for nothing more than
to keep up public spirit and loyally
to your town. We spend not a lit
tle money and effort in boosting
your business and making your town
a good place in which to live. Come
on and be like other folks in other
places where the value of the home
paper is appreciated.
to Travel
, - -j
'pledge of continued friendship and
(ro(Ml
(c) The terrible war now in pro-!.r unlocking the same and climbing
jgress is exhausting the strength of over the lower sash as evidenced by
(d Tim innAtitAivQlln'il,A Tk- I...
; oiiinauiiuo, tii. iiiv-m vii-mu ,IP UK1 Hn. fAlli n llltl'lf? 11
wreckage and waste of life, treasure, 'the back door which was left ajar,
industry, commerce and intellectual j The amount of loot cannot be dctrr
hiuI moral force are reducing all the .mined definitely,
great European powers to a condi- A lively chae with the dogs be
tion from which they cannot aoon longing to V. fl. Mullikin of I-exing-recover.
This is a fact and not a ton began at one o'clock Wednesday,
supposition. Japan, the only other 'a number of trails were traced but
power mentioned as a possible an- no particular clue to the robbers
tagonist, has shown a consistent !'-, was made. A most pleasing spirit
sire to maintain friendly relations, was shown by the business men in
with our country, and is already making up a purse which more than
heavily burdened by taxes and an
overwhelming war debt.
2. A policy of military expansion
on a grand scale will -eyminit the
United States to militarism.
,ru" in iihh'i hcjt .,.u ,...ta. Mnve. She ran from her bouse into
are contra. I.ctory. The one must jnp street where B. P. Combs, county
destroy the other. Iclerk. happened to be who beat out
It is almost impossible to arrest ; (h)l fl w(, Mr. Combs was painfully
a militaristic policy when once it is. hirnp(J ,lt MVwJ Ho,1Mav.9
launched. Fear is added to fearJjjf,,
raise ideals flourish, international
friendship changes to suspicion,
special interests warp the public
mi ml.
The true greatness of the United
States in international affairs has, ""' r.usmess meeting or the con
not rested upon naval and military , fnvpat 'm. An effort to discharge
force, but upon candor, and good,1'1" Pa"" on the part of one faction
will, a high sense of national honor, resulted in failure. The ultimate re
am! fundamental justice. s,lIt remains still in doubt. The ma
3. The great waf is abundant I j"r,,y l,H t,!,t f"r ,h l,ast(,r- Mr
proof that great armaments are not ' firpf' ih" Pa,t"r. declares that he
a protection against attack. In the
hands of a militaristic administra
tion they may be a fertile cause of
(Continued on Tire Eight)
FROM OUR MAIL BAG
IVar Editor: Once a student In
the Vocational. Foundation and Nor-jwere damaged badly by smoke and
mal departments of Berea College water. The insurance carried on the
and now a soldier and a long dis-;0"1' hmlding is It 05.1)00 which
tance from home and homo people,'H protect the loss by Ore. The fire
who are very dear to me. wish to, ws developed from an unknown ori
keep in touch with them through The building will be restored
vour columns. Enclosed please find ' original beauty as soon as ron-
i.ne iIi.IIbp fop nin WiHhinir vim
a very successful year, I remain,
Very respectfully,
James R Caudill,
Co. H. '1st Inf. Vancouver, Wash.
This letter is a sample of the
many that have come to this office
since January t. The above wish Is
being realized as we have added
more than three hundred new names
to our mailing list this new year;
more thnn thirty a day. You are not
in it if you are not a subscriber of
The Citizen. Come on, don't squeeze
that eagle till it "hollers.- It will
stay by you better if invested In,
your home paper.
i
The College Departmental page Is
a splendid feuture this week. Every lWilson, a son of fienrge Wilson, re
student in the College Department, reived wounds inflicted by the shot
may see his name this issue. Fifty 'mm with which Itallard was killed,
years hence your grandchildren I'The supposed men who did the
will be glad to read about you away shooting were Frank VanWinkle
back there when you were a col.
lege student at Ilcrca.
Note what tho Home Science Do-
Vartincnt has to say about co-operation
on the part of our readers. This
is an opportunity for you. Don't fail
0 keep up with the Home Depart-
'went. You shall be the gainer.
Berea College Winter Term Opened Wednesday,
IN OUR OWN STATE
Moonshine Still
It has born discovered thnt Alex
Hellcn. who lives on Indian Creek,
,nnr the famous Fi simian Springs,
tins lind in operation a distillery
that was not registered under the
laws of tin? United Btates. and that
no man ha ever had the pleasure to
boast that he wan the ganger of this
concern. Mt. Advocate.
Father of 31 Children Die
I'nclo Henry Terrell, age 75. died
at his home on Meadow Crock last
Monday night after a short illness
of pneumonia.
Mr. Terrell was the father of 21
children, 17 of whom are now living,
and was a memher of one of the
largest and most respected families
in this county.
His rheerful, helpful life; hij
devotion to his family and kindness
to everybody will linger as a fra
grant memory in the house which
his presence brightened and which
death has now darkened.
Though he is gone his reward has
lieen made and will remain with us
as a lasting treasure.
The funeral services were conduct
ed Wednesday after which his re
mains were laid to rest in Flat
Creek cemetery. Williamshtiry Re
publican. Berea Store Borglariied
Tuesday night, evidently amateur
burglars entered I lie store of J. B.
Richardson on Main street. They
gained access by rutting a small hole
in window glass near the fasten
ueirayea me expense or ine cnase.
Two Persons Burned.
Mrs. Ira Holiday of Hazard was
seriously burned when her clothes
mnirlil Hia frmn Mia flnmn r.f on nil
Church Fight on at Owensboro
A dissension among the members
of the Zion Evangelical Church of
Owensboro caused a division at the
will not resign.
Big Blaze in Lexington Cost $100,000.
The beautiful Ben Ali theater
stage waa gutted by fire early Tues
day morning. The large asbestos
curiam saved me auditorium from
total destruction, but the decorations
it1" rn" p
Acquitted of Murder.
J. M. Hines. of Estill County, was
freed of the murder of George Horn
on peremptory instruction in the Cir
cuit Court today here. The evidence
was held to bo too circumstantial.
One Man Killed and Another
Wounded in Sunday Row.
Another victim was added to Oar-
irard County's list of murdered on
(last Sunday when Ebb Dullard,
youngest son of Oeorgo Itallard. w as
"hot and supposed to be benten to
'death and left to lie in a ditch by
tho roadside
where the shooting
took place, a short distance from
.White I.ick, at about 10:00 o'clock
iSunduy morning. His companion,
laud his younger brother, who are
still at large.
The unfortunate man was found
late in the afternoon after water had
run over his body for several hours
in a dying condition and was taken
to Ilcrca where he died at the home
T . . , 1
ihwal took r,ace afternoon.
lof his sister on lloone street. The
TESTIFIES ON
DEFENSE PLAN
Ma. Gen. Scott Favors Uni
versal Military Service.
ARMY OF 2,000,000 NEEDED
Head of U. 8. Army Tails House Com
mittee Compulsory Drill For All
Cltliena From 18 to 21 la Solution
For Nation's Defane.
Washington, Jan. 11. Unlvereal
military service in some form in the
United States, possibly the require
ment that all men between 18 and 21
bo given at least six months training,
as a substitute for the volunteer sys
tem was dlscusaed before tho house
military committee by Major General
Scott, chief of staff of the army.
General Scott told tho committee
that the United States would need an
army of nearly two million men In
the event of war. It developed dur
ing the hearing that there are more
than four million men in the country
between the ages of eighteen and
twenty-one and that 700,000 more
reach the age of eighteen annually.
Short of a universal requirement.
General Scott thought the administra
tion's continental army plan offered
tho most workable solution of the na
tion's military problems. If the plan
failed, he said, there was no escape
from compulsory service.
Every country in Europe, he added,
realized the truth of thia, and England
might better have realized It sooner.
With military aervlce Imposed on men
between eighteen and twenty-one aa
a patiiotlo duty with nominal pay, be
thought It would coat the nation no
more for an adequote force than to
maintain lta present establishment
General Scott's atatement that the
oountry would need an army of near
ly two million In event of war, waa
questioned by Representative An
thony, who asked If It would not bo a
physical Impossibility for any power
to land 500,000 men In the United
Elites la a period short of sixty days.
Citing a Uble prepared by the war
college division of the general staff.
General Scott aald Austria-Hungary
had the ships and men to aend a
force of 72.000 in a first expedition
and 108,000 In a second within sixty
days.
"What would become of the 72,
000?" Representative Anthony asked.
The general said that If they were
well established, with adequate big
guns, they would be hard to dislodge
before reinforcements arrived.
General Soott disclosed that the
war department had prepared esti
mates for six big mobile coast defense
guna of caliber probably greater than
12 Inches, to be fired from railroad
eara or hauled on their own carriages
by motor trucks.
The committee will resume Its hear
ings next Wednesday with Major Gen
eral Rliss, assistant chief of staff,
on the stand.
WILSON WONT NAME NEGRO
In Appointing Recorder of Deeds of
District of Columbia.
Washington, Jan. 11. Prealdent
Wilson let it be known that he will
not nominate a negro as recorder of
deeds of the District of Columbia.
That office, which has been filled by
a negro for many yeara, has been va
cant for eighteen months and the Na
tional Negro Democratic league, head
ed by Bishop Walters, of the Third
district of the A. M. E. church has
urged the appointment of a negro.
The president indicated to Bishop
Walters, however, that It would be
Impossible for him to give the post
to a negro, but that In consideration
of thla he would look with favor on
the suggestion of the appointment of
colored men to several positions In
the department.
KANSAS DEATH RATE LOW
Registrar of Vital Statistics Gives
Raaaon For Record Made.
Topeka, Kaa., Jan. 11. "Kansas,
with a rate of 9.8 In each 1.000 popu
lation, has the lowest death rate of
any state In the Union, because the
people do not drink liquor) because
they have money euough to live rlRht,
and because they have the Intellig
ence to read of the conditions that
make for short Uvea and know how to
dodge them.
That Is the anawer of W. J. 8t. Dea
eon. registrar of the Kanaaa vital sta
tistics bureau, to Hamuel U Rogers,
director of the United States bureau
of census. The government official
wrote to Mr. Deacon, demanding an
explanation of why the Kansas death
rate happened to be so low.
Dally Thought,
A noble man cannot bo Indebted for
bis culture to a narrow circle. Tho
world and hla native land must act on
him. Goethe.
LOOK FOR END OF
LUSITANIA CASE
Berlin Expected to 0, K. Agree
ment With Ambassador.
DRAFT OF NOTE IS GIVEN
Document Will Admit Illegality of
Attack en Liner and Will Express
Willlngnees to Make Full Repara
tion For Lives Lost.
Washington, Jan. 11. Formal set
tlement of the Lusltanla controversy
probably will be reached before the
end of thla week. All that remains
Is for the Berlin foreign office to ap
prove a tentative understanding which
has been reached at a conference be
tween Secretary of State Lansing and
Count von Dernstorff, the German am
bassador. That this approval will be given and
that the demand Itself will be em
bodied In a formal note from Ger
many to the United States la confi
dently predicted in state department
circles and In quarters close to the
Germed embassy. The note. It fs
said, will take the form of a reply
to the American note to Germany of
July 21. 1915.
According to the draft which Count
von nernstorff sent to his government
Germany would give the satisfaction
demanded by the United States In
the following way:
First The Imperial German gov
ernment will again express Its deep
regret over the killing of tho 110
American men, women and children,
who lost their Uvea when the liner
waa torpedoed without warning by a
German submarine.
Second It will express entire wil
lingness to make reparation for the
lives destroyed, the details of In
demnification to be adjusted on a
basis satisfactory to' both govern
ments. Third It will admit that the attack
on the Lusltanla was an Illegal act,
but one which was a reprisal under
taken against the unlawful actions of
Great Britain In proclaiming her or
der In council and proceeding to
starve out the non-combatant popula
tion of Germany.
Fourth In reference to tho de
mands of the United States In Its
note of July 21 for assurances again
a repetition of the attack on the Lusl
tanla, Germany, It la understood, will
refer to the assurances already given
by her on this score following the
sinking of the Arabic
Although the disavowal, aald to
have been agreed on by the aecretary
and the ambaasador, la not formally
demanded by the United States, It la
described as meeting entirely the
wishes of President Wilson.
It was pointed out In well Informed
quarters that In view of the position
which the United States haa consis
tently held In its correspondence with
Great Britain regarding the order In
council, thla country cannot have any
hesitancy In subscribing to the state
ment that Great Britain's methods
have been without the pale of Inter
national law. In the same way, offi
cials observe, the United 8tates In
Its correspondence with Germany on
the Lusltanla controversy, has not
disputed the fact that the attack on
the Lusltanla, was In the nature of a
reprisal against the British proced
ure. FORD'S PARTY BREAKS UP
Delegates Are Instructed to Spread
Peace Propaganda.
The Hague (via London), Jan. 11.
The Ford peace party baa begun to
break up. Most of the students have
left for Rotterdam, in charge of
Chaperon Watklns, of the business
staff. They will sail on the Noordam.
Previous to their departure the stu
dents were Instructed to spread peace
propaganda at their respective uni
versities and to hold publlo meetings
to counteract the alleged false news
paper reports.
The Netherlands are In favor of
peace, but they do not approve of the
Ford expedition because of Its many
mistakes. They think -a congress of
neutrals poMMible, If the FOrdttes are
not connected with it.
Succeeds Booker T. Washington
Major Robert It. Moton, who suc
ceeds Hooker T. Washiiucton as head
of the (treat colored school at Tus
ketfee, Ala., has been for many years
"Commandant of Cadets" and general
executive lifTicer at. Hampton Insti
tute in Virginia. He has also been
a vigorous and effective speaker in
behalf of the progress of the negro
race both north and south, and is iu
all ways fitted for the great work be
fore him.
Dr. W. D. Weathcrford of Nash
ville. Tenii- says of him, "It would be
worth a trip to Hampton Just to
know Major Motou."
January 5, 1916
GABRIELLE D'ARNUNZIO
Italian Parliament Esonerates
Him From Senaatlenal Charge.
Photo by American Proas AaeocUtloa.
Paris, Jan. 11. The poet was ae
eused of paying a hotel bill of $500
for himself and two beautiful women,
one a Russian countess and the other
an Italian marchess. He said the
women were myths.
HEAVY LOSSES
FORCE QUIET
Battle on Bessarablan Front
Bloodiest In War.
HARD FICHT ON SADAR6ARA
Austro-Hungarian Army Is Report
ed Falling Back Before Smaehoe
of Ruaaian Forcsa Teutona More
Successful In Montenegrin Drive.
London, Jan. 11. That tho Austro-Hungarian
army, which haa been
falling back steadily before the
smashes of the Russian forces on the
Bessarablan front In Galtcla, tempo
rarily la demoralised, as asserted by
the Petrograd official statement, part
ly Is borne out by the Hungarian
newspaper Pester Lloyd, which states
that the losses on both sides so far
exceed 175,000 men.
Another Hungarian newspaper
states, on the authority of a staff re
port, that the fighting on this front
haa been the bitterest and bloodiest
la the history of the war.
The comparative quiet that pre
vailed on this front was due to these
losses and the reported demoralisa
tion of the Auatrians by the Russian
forces.
In Champagne the French have re
pulsed four German attacks. - The
Germans, however, have retained a
foothold at two places In the French
advanced trenches.
In Persia, British reinforcements
on their way to the relief of Kut-el-Amara
have met Turkish forces'
which were compelled to retire after
some heavy fighting.
The Salonlca front Is chiefly notable
in the day's dlspatchea aa the acene
of almost continued aeroplane skirm
ishes, one of which continued for two
hours. The Germans have thus far
lost six aeroplanes In this region.
Several lengfhy dispatches have
been received hero giving details of
the recent operations In eastern Gall
cla, which were so meagerly described
In the official reports. According to
these dispatches the Russians, after
artillery preparation which showed
there was not longer any shortage of
their big gun ammunition, started an
offeuslve which ca'used the Auatro
Germans to rush every available di
vision to Galicia.
Czernowlts is still in the possession
of the Austrlans and Is Oiled with
wounded, but the Russians apparent
ly directing their main attack against
Sadsrgora, north of the Bukowln
capital, where five Important roads
converge.
In the llalksns reports persist that
the (lermuns are concentrating at
Monuatlr preparatory to an attack on
Salonlca, but the interest in the Mace
donia campaign has become second
ary to the oneratlons of the Austrlans
In Motjtenetjro. A determined attack
Is being made on Mount Lovcen,
Montenegrin stronghold overlooking
Cattaro bay, by the guns of the Aus
trian fortrms at Cattaro and Austrian
warships lying In the Adriatic.
URGE HELP FOR MONTENEGRO
Italian Frees Demands Government
Assume Defenee of Country.
Rome, Jan. 11. The Italian press
Is significantly urging that the gov
(rnmenLJsjiijiifi the. control and do
(Contlnusd on Psge Ughi)
f ;l A
