NGS'
-Ashland Grows While Uthla Flows'
' City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Uthla Springs
"The Carlsbad of America"
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 1916
NUMBER 67
xSHLAI
MD
H HV IT
im
Invents Improved
Cattle Stanchion
' The writer yesterday had the op
portunity of inspecting the model of
an Invention completed by John B.
Wimer of this city, who has lately
filed application for patent through
Washington attorneys. Mr. Wimer
conceived a plan to eliminate the
time and labor encountered by dairy
men in closing and opening cattle
stanchions by inventing a new
stanchion and stall which, when
placed on the market, bids fair to
take the place of the ones now in
use, which require an Individual op
eration at each one to close and open
them. ',
The invention is pronounced by
those who have seen it to be the most
modern, serviceable, sanitary cattle
stanchion yet invented, inasmuch as
it is adjustable to the size of the
animal, will turn to accommodate the
animal in a comfortable position
while lying down, is made of steel
tubing and can be set up for use in a
few minutes and is simple in its
working. Its 'greatest advantage is
that any number of stanchions can
be closed or opened at a moment's
notice, or any one can be operated
separately, any certain ones can be
thrown out of gear and made non
operative at the option of the user,
"they can be added to or taken away
from at any time, and the time and
labor involved in closing or opening
each, one separately is eliminated, as
with this new stanchion any number
can be operated at once in less time
than is required to operate one un
der the present stanchions in use.
Mr. Wimer is already receiving in
quiries from some of the largest
dairy barn equipment factories of the
east regarding his invention, and he
expects eventually to arrange with
some factory to manufacture and
place it on the market, and has stated
that he expects to exhibit the model
publicly soon to show the people, es
pecially those interested in dairies or
who use stanchions, what can be done
in the line of a time and labor saving,
as well as a sanitary, comfortable cat
tle stanchion.
Sugar Factory
Near Grants Pass
Geo. E. Sanders, vice-president of
the Oregon-Utah Sugar company,
who, with Alex Nlbley, has been in
Portland for several days, is quoted
in" the Oregonian of recent date as
follows:
"Rates on sugar beets from the
farms of the growers to the mill will
determine the location of the beet
sugar factory to be established near
Grants Pass, declared George E.
Sanders and Alex Nlbley, officials of
the company, who were in Portland
yesterday. They left last night for
Bait Lake City, where capital has
been raised for the plant. It is ex
pected to start operations next Sep
tember. " 'We are now trying to get the
freight rates settled definitely,' said
Mr. Sanders. 'We have the matter
up with the Southern Pacific, and a
conference on the subject will be
held in San Franclsco'next week.
" 'We have in mind placing the
factory on the new Twohy railroad
outside of Grants Pass about three
miles. But this is dependent upon
the freight rates.
" 'The contract for the factory will
be' let next week in Salt Lake City.
It will cost about $625,000. Dyer &
Company and Larue & Company,
leading builders of sugar beet mills
in the country, will bid on the con
struction, and the contract will call
for everything ready for operation by
next September.
" 'Bonds have been sold to finance
the project. We expect to have 75,
000 tons of sugar beets delivered to
us this coming season.' "
First National
Elects Officers
Stockholders of the First National
Bank met on Tuesday and elected E.
V. Carter, George W. Dunn, George
Owens, C. H. Vaupel, W. H. McNair,
O. Winter, T. H. Simpson, G. S. But
ler and F. D. Wagner directors, who
chose E. V. Carter president, C. H.
Vaupel vice-president and '3: W. Mc
Coy cashier, who has Clark Bush and
Hal
Emery for assistants. Gerald
Wenner
clerks.
and Harold Simpson are
Phone news Item to the Tiding!.
Smith-Emery Are
Finishing Up Job
Smith, Emery & Co. are closing up
their work in Ashland and are
straightening up accounts and dispos
ing of tools and equipment. Beyond
a few minor details the contract is
fulfilled and everything Is working
in first-class shape. The waters are
being delivered at the central station,
which is the Mecca for hundreds
despite the wet weather. Work on
the fountains Is going forward as fast
as conditions permit.
Mr. Smith of the company Is in
Ashland attending to the finishing up
of the company's business and ex
presses himself as highly pleased
wjth the results obtained. He states
that the lithia water flow Is much
larger than was expected and will be
more than an abundance.
Circuit breakers which will pre
vent a recurrence of the burning out
of the motors at the springs have
been installed and all are working
well. At the central station the ap
paratus for the carbonization of the
Ashland creek water is being in
stalled. Basement Fire
Does Small Damage
Fire starting from a stove in the
basement of George Ganlere's house
on Nob Hill street did a small amount
of damage Wednesday morning but
was subdued by quick action on the
part of Mrs. Ganiere before it bad as
sumed dangerous proportions. The
loss was small and was covered by
Insurance with the Billings agency.
First Debate Next
Friday Evening
The first debate of the 1916 series
for the championship of southern Or
egon takes place Friday evening at
the high school between the Ashland
and Talent high school teams. Ash
land high is represented on the p'pj
form this year by Raymond Badger,
Cleo Kirk and Earnest Abbott. The
question for the evening, and which
will be debated throughout the Ore
gon High School Debating eague, is,
"Resolved, that the United States
should adopt the essential features
of the Swiss system of military train
ing and service."
Medford and Grants Pass highs de
bate on the same night and the win
ners of the two debates meet. Then
the team which wins that debate
meets Klamath Falls for the cham
pionship of the district. Finals for
the whole state will be held in May
at the University of Oregon for the
university cup and the state cham
pionship. Medford City
Election Returns
The city of Medford went through
one of the closest elections of recent
years Tuesday. F. F. Medynski,
father of the famous rebondlng plan
which nearly caused a civil war" in
Medford civic circles and which start
ed the pavement equalization agita
tion in Ashland, was nosed out by
Dr. J. J. Emmens in the first ward.
The vote was 281-252. Dr. Keene
won over T. G. Burrows in the second
ward by a majority of 75. City Re
corder Foss and City Treasurer Sam
uels were returned to office by a
good majority. Bonds for remodel
ing the Medford city hall lost out and
the new registration plan carried by
a good majority.
"TheBirdofParadise"
Not a Motion Picture
That interesting drama of Ameri
cans and modern Hawaii will be seen
at the Page Wednesday, January 19.
Miss Carlotta Monterey, a young
native Californlan, will be the new
Luana, and hearsay has it that she
is as clever, if not cleverer, than
those who have played the part be
fore. Among others in the cast are
Hooper L. Atchley, Richard Gordon,
Jane Haven, Robert Morris, John W.
Burton and a score of others, includ
ing five native Hawaiian isngers and
players, whose quaint music lends a
charm to the play. The scenlo effects
are wonderful, showing as they do a
tropical electrical rain storm and the
eruption of Mount Kllauea, Hawaii's
most terrible volcano.
f w www rFr W w W I I I I
Proclamation
designating
Letter Writing Week
Whereas, it appears that much beneficial publicity will result
for Oregon and all its communities by the writing of letters de
scriptive of our state to our acquaintances, friends and relatives
who have not the good fortune to dwell in Oregon; and
Whereas, It Is pointed out that the best results in such letter
writing campaign can best be obtained by organizing and sotting
aside for it a definite period; and
Whereas, many organizations' have already interested them
selves in Individual efforts along this line;
Now, therefore, I do hereby proclaim e' week of January 17
to 22, 1916, as ..
ORKGOV LETTRIt AViyTIXG WEEK,
and during that week it is desired thut the people and the organ
izations and communities of our state bend their energies to dis
patching as many messages as possible to people in other states
and countries descriptive of the opportunities, resources and at
tractions of Oregon; and I further suggest that our newspapers,
officials, school teachers and community organizations will do well
to give the purposes and plans of Oregon Letter Writing Week rec
ognition and their hearty co-operation, so that organized effort for
Intelligent and far-reaching publicity for Oregon may be achieved.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused
the great seal of the state of Oregon to be hereunto affixed this
8th day of January, 1916.
JAMES WITI1YCOMBE, Governor.
BEX W. OLCOTT, Secretary of State.
By proclamation of the governor,
the week of January 17-22 is to be
all Oregon Letter Writing Week.
During this week from every city in
the state thousands of letters will go
back to friends, relatives and busi
ness acquaintances in the east telling
them of the wonders which Oregon
holds forth for the tourist and invit
ing them to visit Oregon this sum
mer. The Portland Chamber of Com
merce Is asking every business man
of Portland to write fifty letters this
week and every citizen of Portland
to write ten letters. The letters sent
out from Portland will tell not alone
of Portland and the wonders near it,
but of the entire state.
Every woman and child in Ashland
should write not less than seven let
ters, one each day, to friends in tha
east, inviting them to make their trip
this summer to Oregon, It will take
cut i few minutes of time' and the
results of Oregon Letter Writing
Week will be farspread. -
It is hoped that while all of Eu
rope Is enshrouded in war and the
tourist must turn to his own country
for new playgrounds, Oregon by unit
ed effort can draw thousands next
summer.
Movies May Be Made By
Cailfornia Company in Ashland
Ashland and the Rogue River val
ley may become the home of one or
more of the big moving picture production-companies
now located in
California, but which for various
reasons are now casting about for
new locations. The Rogue River val
ley offers wonderful and ideal condi
tions for motion picture production.
During the past year, according to
figures, there were 203 clear days in
Ashland and many others upon
which photographic work could be
carried on outdoors. Then from
Ashland there Is available the most
varied types ot scenery, all within a
couple of hours by auto at most and
to a great extent within a few min
utes' walk. The foothills of Grizzly
offer one type, the heavily timbered
mountains back of Ashland another.
Ashland canyon, the Siskiyou grade,
Rogue river and its wonderful scen
ery afford thousands of setting of
every variety which could be de
sired. Beyond the thousands of dollars
which a single company would spend
annually, the greatest consideration
which should be Incentive to leave no
stone unturned In making efforts to
bring motion picture companies to
Ashland is the advertising which the
section would receive. The motion
picture is the biggest recreation of
the American people today. The es
tablishment of a company here would
mean that every person in the United
States who goes to movies would
know of Ashland and know that Ash
land must indeed have wonderful at
tractions. The making of films brings mil
lions of dollars each year to Los An
geles. For several reasons some ef
the largest producers In the world
arenow planning to leave that ter
ritory if a suitable location can be
fonnd elsewhere. Other California
cities are offering inducements of
every kind. The Calif ornlans real
The scenic wonders of the Oregon
country cannot be surpassed any
where in the world. Tell your friends
of Crater Lake, Josephine Caves, the
wonderful Sisklyous, the Rogue River
falls and gorges, fishing, hunting and
camping. Tell them of the wonders
ot northern and eastern Oregon. Tell
thtm of Ashland, the Carlsbad of
erica, her scenery, her climate
lier springs. Ashland is the one
city in Oregon which will realize most
from the tourist traffic, as advertis
ing already is making Ashland one of
the big places on the Oregon map.
Every tourist who visits Oregon may
be drawn to Ashland. Tourist dol
lars are new dollars. California gets
millions yearly from the tourist crop.
Let us do our share and more to
bring the tourists to Oregon. Then
let every resident of Ashland write a
letter a day to eastern friends and
acoi'alnUnces next week, invite them
fCRCS their vacation in Oregon arid
at Ashland". The Commercial Club
requests that a list of all those writ
ten be left with the secretary so that
literature may., be sent to follow up
the letters. In writing use the glass
of water envelope. The glass of wa
ter Is Ashland's trade-mark and is
becoming famous.
ize the dual advantage of commercial
film making in their district, for not
only is a large amount of money
spent directly in the industry, but the
scenery and natural advantages are
given publicity which could not be
bought with any amount of money.
The 11,000,000 or more the com
panies themselves spend directly in
Los Angeles is but a small part of the
total amount of business the industry
creates in that city.
The Portland Chamber of Com
mence is now making every effort to
induce California companies to come
to Oregon. Publicity Manager M. J.
Duryea, who is in Portland on busi
ness for the Ashland Commercial
Club, is making a strong pull for
Ashland in the matter.
Local Dealers
Clip Liquor Ads
i-ocai newsaeaien ana magazine
agencies are resorting to tne use or
the scissors to keep out of the
clutches of the law. If you are read
ing an interesting continued story,
"continued on page 22" and thon
find page 22 mutilated by scissors,
don't blame the man who sold you
the magazine. Blame yourself, you
veted for it.
Some of the weekly publications
are already coming with liquor ads
expurgated. The publishers sup
posedly are now, and eventually all,
with issue "prohi" Oregon editions.
One or two of the local purveyors
of magazines are letting them all go
through, stating that they have re
ceived no official notice except
through the news agencies.
As things now stand everybody
and every business seems to be per
foctly willing to hold back and let
theotaer fellow make the first break
Business Men
Enjoy Luncheon
The Business Men's Association
members to the number of about boys of Ashland during the winter
thirty gathered around a bounteous months should be met by the parents
spread at the Hotel Ashland cafe last 1 and townspeople. At present the
Monday evening, and after enjoying boys are thrown totally upon their
the many good things prepared by own resources with the usual amount
Mrs. I'pdegraff launched into discus- of needless mlschlevouBiicss occurln?
slon of several matters which are bo-jas a result. Two or three boys' or
fore the club at present. The dinner ganizatlons, namely the boy scout
was complimentary to its members patrols of the Christian and BaptiHt
from the association and proved to 'churches and the patrol under the
be a most popular innovation. directorship of George Holly, have
After considerable discussion it! enrolled numbers of the youngsters,
was decided to finally decide at the but are handicapped In that no suit
regular adjourned meeting of the as-1 able quarters for gymnasium or even,
soclatbn next Monday evening j meeting places are available,
whether or not the association should It would be the most public-spirit-become
a part of the Commercial , ed act which could be accomplished
Club and merge into it. should a suitable place be provided
Following lengthy discussion It was 1 for the youngsters to engage In bas-
declded to give the high school stu
dents $100 for the annual this year
instead of advertising as in previous
years. ThiB will be welcomed by the
students as this amount together with
nrome from other sources will enable
them to put out a most creditable an
nual.
Stevenson Gets
Good Park Views
Chester Stevenson Is taking a num
ber of vlows of the new Lithia park
and is securing some exceptionally
eood pictures. A flashlicht of E. N.
Butler and wife and Harvey Lingyeftrs of age?
la""" " i"'"s
111 l,,B im"1 18 U,"0,1B 11,0 "Kal
Postcards of the new views will be
out before long.
0. A. C. Coach Goes
To Nebraska U.
Dr. E. J. Stewart, athletic coach
at Oregon Agricultural college, has
accepted a $4000 a year coacmng,,,, ghown by. the minlber who Joia
position with Nebraska university, the chautaura boyB. cll,b in tho
and wi:i o to that Institution nexOgmnu.r and who' are anxious for ad-
fal1- I mission to the boy scout organiza-
Dr. Stewart has made a wonderful (ion8i
reputation as a football, basketball It hafl been guested that tho
and track coach at O. A. C, and has Mlnl8terial wnoctoUon or tho Corn
turned out several championship :nlrf,i rni)s lnvPRtlirnfii tho nintter.
teams. Ills most notable success and
the one which was probably the most
Instrumental In his securing the new
position, was the defeat of the Michi
gan Aggie football team by his O.
A. C.'teara this fall.
The "cover-up" basketball system
which is used by the local high
school team is a Stewart product,
which was Introduced to Southern
Oregon by Otto Klum, who spent a
year under Stewart at O. A. C.
W. 0. W. Holding
County Bonds
A poultry show was discussed and
The financial Interests of a committee was appointed to deter
Woodmen of the World in this c1tym1ne whcth(ir or not ,t lfl feag)Me to
and county are sufficient to 8"; hoid a valley poultry show this year,
prise many who heard the statement at & date to be f)xed i)refer
of District Manager D. J. Beaky (aWy for the month of February. That
a speech last Friday at the big ses- committoe consists of E. T. Gardner,
slon of that organization's local w w yatmn, J. A. Blckerdlke, Geo.
camp. The Woodmen have Alforl and E. J. Runyoid. This com-
000 invested In Ashland bonds, andmttee Wflg g,ven power t0 B))0,nt
$250,000 invested in bonds In the , assi)tan(. mcml)erg ,n varlolls com.
county altogether. munltles throughout the county.
The order has a membership of i n will report next Saturday at tho
450 in this county. The sum Invested firfit roR1I,ar met.tng of the oremha.
here, therefore, represents about tbon wh(.h wil, ,)0 hcU, ftt the Med.
$507.77 per member. Tho W. O. W.
has $1,530,000 invested in the state
of Oregon.
District Manager Beaky, who Is
making a tour of tho camps of this
district, which extends from Red
Bluff, California, to Eugene, this
tended the Ashland enmp'f
regular session last night nnd Install-
ed the local camp officers.
. Congressman Hawley, by the way,
represents Oregon on the board of,
head managers of the W. O. W., and
Attorney B. F. Mulkey, recently of
Medford, is a membor of the head
camp's law committee.
Canned spinach Is better and more
economical than the fresh. Sold at
Ashland Trading Company. Phone
122.
Get your suit pressed to look your
host. Paulserud ft Barrett will give
you satisfaction. Suits pressed 60
cents. It
and then see what happens. Several
of the clauses of the law are un
expectedly hard to diagnose by the
average person.
Ashland Lads
Need Gymnasium
Tho problem of taking care of tha
ketball and other Indoor sports dur
ing winter months.
There are several men In Ashland
who would be willing to donate part
of their time to supervision of the
lads and equipment costs but littlo
ana woum douuiicss ne uonateu Dy
the parents.
There are but few cities In tho
country the size of Ashland which
have no Y. M. C. A. or boys' club
of any kind to Interest the boys and
develop them mentally and physi
cally In the winter months.
During the summer the great out
doors will care for the boys, but can.
we not find somo place for organized
winter sports for the lads up to 10
It is barely possible that the arm
ory might be secured during the af
ternoons and several other buildings
with sufficient floor space to allow
of games are unoccupied. The old
skating rink tn one of the natator
ium's unused tanks would be good
and the old armory In the McCarthy
bulldjng or the store room downstairs
could be used if nothing better of
fered. Th th b f the dty wouM
; meet lhe J(lea wl(Jl re8pon8a
it Is a. worthy cause.
Poultry Raisers
Plan Annual Show
There has been talk of the organi
zation of a poultry association for
:some time and as a result of the first
call poultry enthusiasts from all
parts of the valley met at the public
market at Medford Saturday after
noon and effected a permanent or
ganization, with E. W. Hunter, Med
ford, as president and Roy B. Peb
bles of Medford as secretary.
for(1 ,,,,,,,. mai.ket at 2 G.clock , tne
afternoon. Everyone In the valley
should bo present and If you can't
come write a word of encouragement
t 8ecretary
I A poultry organization and espe
cially an annual show means better
i poultry, more of it. hotter orices. and
more money for not on)y tbe pouItry.
nlan but for the merchant and tn
peol)Ie ln general,
Quinlan Grants
Pass Postmaster
W. P. Quinlan, secretary of tha
Grants Pass Commercial Club, haa
been nominated for postmaster at
Grants Pass by President Wilson, and
his appointment by the senate is
thought assured, since both senators
from Oregon are understood to be
agreed upon his appointment Geo.
W. Donnell, the retiring postmaster,
has held the position for eight years.
Every sawmill ln Linn county ex
pects to be running by spring.
