il? I HflnRP
Bf " ?tf85 l
m J lead. $5.90; 'spelter, l7.50c; copper, f Vss . Jft"""1 C,Udy IKii
H ' 2 -J -5c 1 f - Local Snow Tonight or Friday, RfgMgjM
B- , .., . Temperature. r vHI
-1 : -. FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER I . -JdHWH
i 1 . HIH
K i Forty.sixth Year-No. 11.J Price: Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, JANUARY 13, 1916. Entered as Second CTasB Matter at the PoiE5iKB
II Intense : Excitement Reigns at Mexican
: Border Over Latest Bandit Outrages
I DASTARDLY ACTS OF VILLA FORCES
I STIRS INDIONATION OF PEOPLE
B. ' State Department Demands Quick Action by Carranza Gov-
B ernment and Calls ,f or Full Details From Officials
H Senate and House Would Authorize President "to
B: Use Army and Navy in Restoring Order in
B Mexico Newspaper Man Gives Account
B .' of Recovery of Bodies of Americans
B ' Mining Men Propose to Form
B Regiment to Clean
B Up Bandits.
B -
Hr
B El Paso, Texas, Jan. 13. The report that ten Americans
H " and two English women had been murdered at Madeira could
B ;. not be verified here early today. Mexican officials at Juarez
B said troops were being dispatched to that place.
B The Madeira telegraph operator reported there was no
B ' truth in the report of ten American men and two English wom-
B en being killed in Madeira.
Hl Washington, Jan. 3 President Wil-
K son and Secretary Lansing today look-
K ed to General Carranza for prompt
B compliance wltli the demand of the
H United States government that he
B take immediate steps for the capture
H' and punishment of the bandits who
B killed American citizens near Chihua-
B hua City.
H The American demand was convey-
B ed to Carranza In a note sent to him
m through Consul Silliman at Queretaro.
B It denounced the slaying of the Amcri-
B cans as a "dastardly crime" and calls
B upon Carranza for the immediate pur-
B -suit, capture and punishment of the
B perpetrators of the deed. It also urg-
B ed the dispatch of troops to other dis-
B trlcts where Americans are in danger
Bl of losing their lives or property
B Officials Await Details.
B "While anxiously awaiting Carran-
B za's response the officials continued
B their efforts today to obtain all the
B ftfets" beirrtngwbn"'theJmTders"fromP
B consular officers in Mexico and along
Bl the border. They had been ordered
B to investigate and expedite their re-
B ports.
Hi Officials particularly wanted to
H know whether the murders were
B due to the failure of the de facto gov-
B ernment of Mexico to afford proper
Hj protection in a zone known by it to
B bo dangerous or whether the men lost
Bj their lives as the result of a bandit
B attack which could not have been
Bj foreseen.
H! Latest Outrages Hold Attention.
B The latest Mexican outiages con-
B tinued today to hold the almost un-
H! divided attention in official and con-
B' gresslonal circles. There werc no
B suggestions, however, that the Ameri-
B: can government would take further
B action in the case beyond that already
B taken.
Bj Joint Intervention Before Committee.
B Senator Sherman' resolution calling
B for joint intervention by the Pau-
B American liationgAWhich led to recog-
B nltlon of Carraqzphas been referred
BL to the sepate foreign relations' com-
B nilttee The committee is not expect-
B ed to meet again before next week.
B Prospects are that the resolution
B will not then be favorably acted upon
B in view of the suggestion of Senator
B Stone chairman of the foreign rela-
H Lions' committee that President Wil-
B, Hon be left to handle the situation for
B the present.
B, General Carranza's ambassador here
K today formally assured Secretary Lan-
Hi sing that the Carranza government
V "deeply deplores the action of the VII-
B la forces in killing IS Americans near
B Chihuahua Tuesday" and added that
B "efficient action will be taken to
K bring the murderers to justice."
V He also gave assurances that Gen-
B eral Carranza would take steps to
B remedy the situation in the state of
B Durango In which. depredations
B against foreigners have been reported.
H There were no developments In the
B situation at the White House or at
' the state department, but in congress
H both house and senate continued to
B give it attention.
Hk Would Empower President to Act.
B' Senator Lewis, Democrat, introduc-
B' ed a resolution proposing to empower
B. the president to use the army and
B navy to restore order in Mexico as
K had. been, done in Haiti and Nicara-
H He asked that it lay over without
B action however and there was no fur-
Bv ther debate at that stage.
B In the house Representative Slay-
B'' den, Democrat of Texas, defended the
B recognition of General Carranza and
rAfXBt- declared that if ordor were not re-
VAVAfM.' stored a Pan-American coalition of
B nations should do It.
' Lansing Warns Americans.
flB Secretary Lansing late today gave
fAfflfJ: another warning to Americans in Mex-
VAfAfB' Jco to leave any districts where "there
H: la revolutionary trouble."
jB The secretary stated that, so far
K as the steps taken by the Carranza
9H government on the American repre-
jHc Hontations appeared to be satisfac-
IB- 1ory. Bq added that the United
TAfflfB, States would expect evidence of pun-
SB ishment of the bandits who killed the
B Americans near Chihuahua and .that
Cym.- the evidence would depend upon the
safflfK:' circumstances.
VAvB'"c Serious Usue May Arise.
B Secretary Lansing said. If proper
SvAyB. nnQ" final steps were not taken an is
SB. slUi might arise between the United
svATBrr States and the Carranza government
.BBBBP.
iBTflB'1
BBBBJ'
HHHBL'"
bV
HBHi'Lx.
His last statement was regarded as
significant of the determination of
the United States to enforce protec
tion for its citizens In Mexico.
El Paso, Texas, Jan. 13. Develop
ments in the Mexican situation moved
with kaleidoscopic rapidity here to
day. Public feeling, stirred by the arrival
of the bodies of IS of the victims of
the raid of Villa handits at Santa Ysa
bel Monday, was further moved by the
reported capture of General Jose Ro
driguez. A message from Madeira an
nounced his capture and the dispersal
of his band by Americans and a few
Carranza soldiers and contained an
appeal from Americans for help "from
whatever quarter it came."
Campaign to Wipe Out Americans.
Reports to the state department
from local representatives were under
stood to express the belief that Gen
.qijal .JHrancisco VlLla, personally was
back of an organized campaign to wipe
out Americans in Chihuahua for re
venge and in the hope that it would
bring American intervention and break
up the Carranza government.
Activities in civilian circles included
a movement to organize 1000 Amer
ican mining men to run down Mexican
bandits. Sponsors of the project stat
ed the proposal would be sumbitted to
Carranza officials and their approval
requested.
Appeal to Roosevelt.
A telegram appealing to Theodore
Roosevelt to use his influence with
congress to bring "a change in the
policy of the national government" was
circulated among bankers and busi
ness men with the proviso that no one
having interests in Mexico be permit
ted to sign it.
The report from Chihuahua that ten
Americans and two English women
had been killed at Madeira could not
be confirmed here. Neither was there
verification for a rumor that three
Americans had been murdered in the
Cananea district, Sonora.
Bodies of the Santa Ysabel victims
were being prepared for shipment and
forwarded to their homes.
Special Train to Bring Americans.
Co-operation of the Carranza con
sulates and the military authorities in
Chihuahua resulted today, it was said
hero, In preparation for special trains
to bring the Americans out of the Par
ra dlistrict at the shortest possible no
tice. Some two hundred foreigners
are in th0 district, for the most part
employes of the Alvarado Mining com
pany, of which. A. J. McQuatters, now
in New York, is the manager.
El Paso, Texas, Jan. 13. A report
was current in Chihuahua that ten
Americans and two English women
had been killed by Villa troops at
Madeira, Chihuahua, according to
Americans who arrived here early to
day with the bodies of the eighteen
Americans who were killed last Mon
day. One of the women was reported as
the wife of Captain Jack Leftbrldgo,
a retired British army officer, who,
with an English woman companion!
a Mrs. Berry, has been staying at the
Babrlcora ranch, the Hearst proporty.
As the train pulled In, thirteen
American mining men reported that
the body of Joe Enders, reported
killed, was not with the recovered
bodies.
F. E. Stephenson, secretary of the
Mining and Smelter Men's association
of Chihuahua who organized the party
that recovered the bodies, said:
Bodies Hard to Identify.
"Some were hard to identify, for
their heads were almost blown com
pletely off. They were stripped of
clothing before they were dragged
out of the cars and killed. When we
arrived at the scene of the massacre,
the Carranza guard remained at Santa
Ysabel.
Near the scene of the massacre we
found a band of bandits encamped.
We returned to the troop train to get
a machine gun and then proceeded to
the place where tho bodies were heap
ed and wore not molested."
Mexicans Fear Reprisals.
Mexicans residing In El Paso, fear-
i ing reprisals on account of the tense
situation, are seen upon the streets
only on the most urgent business.
News of tho demonstration last night
at the hotel or General Jose Ynez
I Saiazar, former general In tho Mexi-
. can army, Bproad rapidly to tho Mexi
can quarters where considerable un
easiness was apparent.
Early last night General Saiazar re
ceived word from fellow countrymen
that tho feeling was running so high
'his safety on the American side was
endangered. He immediately fled,
crossing, it is believed, into Juarez.
An expedition which left Chihuahua
City to recover the bodies of the
eighteen slain Americans was Inform
ed by the station agent at Santa Ysa
bel that Benjamin Snell and Frank
Woods, cattlemen, passed there,
bound west, half an hour after the
Watson train was reported in trouble.
The station agent said ho warned the
twe men to return, but they said they
were armed and feared no trouble
Nothing later was heard of the party
and it is believed they met the fate
of the Watson train.
Newspaperman Tells Story.
The story of the recovery of the
bodies of the eighteen Americans, as
related by a newspaperman on the ex
peditlon follows:
"Almost the whole foreign popula
tion of Chihuahua City assembled at
the Mexico Northwestern terminal
Monday evening to await the return
of the train which had left the same
morning to take the Cusi officials
and men out to restart work in the
mines.
"Unconfirmed reports had been re
ceived during the afternoon of the
fate that had befallen them and the
Mexicans who were allowed to return
unmolested fully verified the sad
news.
Mexicans Verify News.
"Said they, 'we saw them ordered
off the car and then the shooting be
gan, some ran but they are all dead.
The Villistas told us, to go back home
and to tell the Carranzistas to send
some troops out for them to get to
work on.'
"The foreigners hastened back to
the club to await the result of an
interview between Captain Scobell,
the British consul, at present repre
senting American interests in the ab
sence of Mr. Letcher, and General
Trevino.
"The general promised to send out
a troop train early In the morning.
He gave permission for all foreign
ers who cared to go along to carry
arms to assist in recovering the bod
ies. A number volunteered and later
assembled at the Mexico Northwest
ern railroad depot.
"We waited from 3 a. m. to 9 a. m.
TuestTay for the soldiers to entrafn"
their horses and then got into a small
following train of three box cars and
a caboose. On account of wet wood
fuel and caution of the military train,
it took us six hours to get to Santa
Ysabel. about thirty-five miles, and
five miles short of the scene of the
massacre.
Military Train Held Back.
"Colonel Villineuva Garcia in com
mand of the troops had already dis
embarked some cavalry who went
some distance ahead. The military
train had a platform ahead of the en
gine with three machine guns and
four more in box cars behind. But
at Santa Ysabel the colonel decided
to abandon the train, holding us
there for some time. The sun was
getting low and we realized that if we
did not complete our task we might
never get the bodies away. We inter
viewed him and finally got him to put
ten soldiers in our train and permit
us to go ahead. We got within a
miie of the tragedy when we were
stopped by two excited Mexicans who
charged the crew to reverse th" en
gine and we moved back to Santa
Ysabel. We there found that the two
men had been part of the train crew
of Watson's train and had been held
prisoners and that troops, presum
ably bandits, wore just over the hill
awaiting us.
"Presently their advance guard top
ped the rise and waited there leisure
ly counting our force and sizing us up.
"We finally persuaded tho colonel
to give us sixty mounted men to go
v.ith us, abreast of the train and on
which we had now mounted two ma
chine guns. We got to the scene of
the tragedy just as the sun went
down.
"As the train came to a standstill
we could dimly see the wrecked train
that had halted the WaLson party and
then our eyes fell upon a patch of
white that showed up against the
rocky cut. Rifles in hand we jumped
from the train and hastened up.
"Heaped in a pile were fourteen of
the bodies, stripped of all clothing but
their undershirts. Some of them
were punctured with many holes
while without exception tho features
were so disfigured by close shooting
that Identification was difficult.
"Wo dropped our rifles and without
speech, ran for blankets to carry the
dead into tho car.
When they were all loaded our es
cort started back. We only moved a
few yards when the engine left the
track Nearly an hour later we Jiad It
back on.
"Finally wc got to Santa Ysabel
about 9 o'clock that night to find all
wires were down in the wind, but we
suspected they had been cut by Villa
who might be planning an attack up
on us. We had a consulation and
finally secured permission to flag our
way homo to Chihuahua City where
early in the morning an active com
mittee took charge of the bodies.
"Tho train had been looted of ?2Q.
000 in silver currency apart from the
personal belongings' of the men. It
was rumored in Chihuahua City that
the bandits bad been advised of the
departure of the train with the mon
ey Sixteen thousand dollars of tho
cah had belonged to Watson."
It was reported yesterday that 7G
Mexican government soldiers had been
sent to Madeira. Later it developed
that 40 started but returned to Juarez
after a few hours.
Deductions from events In Chihua-
hua, wired by local representatives to
the state dopartment today, are be
lieved to have stated that it appeared
that General Villa is personally back
of an organized campaign to wipe out
Americans in Chihuahua state for the
purpose of revenge and to bring inter
vention to break up the Carranza gov
ernment. It was stated that local representa
tives of the state department believed
General Villa deliberately sent his
family out of the country to relieve
himself of concern and restraint on
their behalf. The department has
been informed that Villa has directed
an attack on the mining camps of
Parral.
Representatives of the Mexico
Northwestern railway stated today
that forty Mexican soldiers left Juar
ez yesterday and had arrived at Casas
Grandes en route to Madeira They
are held at Casas Grandes because of
a defective engine.
Rumor of More Murders.
EI Paso, Texas, Jan. 13. A rumor
was circulated hero today to the ef
fect that three Americans had been
murdered in the Cananea district of
Sonora in the vicinity of the Phelps
Dodge property. It could not be veri
fied here.
uu
ANOTHER U. S.
CITIZEN KILLED
Collector Cobb at El Paso Of
ficially Reports Death of
Bert Kramer Near
Guierrau
MEN TOLD TO SHOOT
Eighty-five Bandits in Firing
Squad Five Hundred Men
in Reserve.
Washington, Jan. 13. The killing
of Bail Kramer, an American, by
Mexican bandits was officially report
ed in dispatches to the state depart
ment Joday.lj.yL.Qollector Cobb at El
Paso. Tho collector reported Kramer
was killed near Guierra, sixty miles
west of Santa Ysabel, in Chihuahua
The department was further inform
ed that tho band which killed the
party of Americans was commanded
by two Xormer Villa colonels, Lopez
and Beltran. General Reyna also was
said to have been in command of a
party of the Mexican force. Accord
ing to tho dispatches, 85 men were
assigned to shoot the Americans. A
force of about 600 men was reported
near the scene, apparently held in
reserve. After killing the Americans,
today's dispatches said, the Mexicans
robbed the train and later retired in
the direction of Carretas.
Troop Trains in Pursuit.
Collector Cobb said he had been in
formed that troop trains had been
soni by the Carranza authorities in
pursuit of the bandits, one going
from Juarez and tho other from Chi
huahua Another dispatch to the department
sain General Villa recently had been
seen near Chihuahua, but his present
whereabouts was unknown. Senator
Sheppard today received a telegram
from Dr. C. C. Young of El Paso stat
ing that the dead Americans had been
invited into the country by General
Obregon. Senator Sheppard said he
would lay the message before the
stato department.
oo -
ROOSEVELT ASKED
TO LEND A HAND
Petition From Texas Citizens
to Be Forwarded Making
Appeal for Prompt Ac
tion by Congress.
SHOCKED BY MURDERS
Horror of Events in Mexico
and Criminal Apathy of Ad
ministration Tries Peo
ples' Loyalty.
El Paso, Texas, Jan. 1C A telegram
to Theodore Roosevelt, appealing to
him to use his influence with congress
to bring about "a chango in the policy
of this government that so far has re
fused to exercise its paternal duty of
American life and property abroad,"
was circulated hero today for signa
tures. It was proposed to send it to
him later. Persons with interests in
Mexico were not permitted to sign it.
The text of the proposed message
follows:
"Colonel Theodore Roosevelt, Oyster
Bay, Long Island, N, Y".:
People Are Shocked.
"Sir Shocked at the horror of
events in Mexico and the wanton mur
der of eighteen worthy, representative
Americans in tho stato of Chihuahua
we appeal to you and request the use
of your powerful influence on congress
to bring about a change In tho policy
of this government that so far has re
fused to oxerciso its pnternal duty of
protecting American life and property
abroad.
"Tho time has coiuo when only con
gress can act in the face of the crimi
nal apathy of the administration in de
nying respect for the American flag
and the unfortunates who vainly de
pend upon Its protection.
Events at Border Try Loyalty,
"Events along the border and In
Mexico have been trialB on the loyalty
and good will of the bravest. From
day to day chimerical and temporary
expediences and policies have been re
sorted to by the administration until
now tlie bounds of restraint on the
part of well-meaning Americans are
reaching tho elastic limit of tolerance
and endurance, and we appeal to your
well-iknown patriotism in asking you
to most vigorously support a new and
effective policy which will Insure to
peaceful Americans in Mexico that
protection due them under the consti
tution and under any trustworthy gov
ernment. Horrible Butcheries.
"The Mexican issue is not a political
one and we can not insult the Amer
ican nation by subscribing to tho'
- maxim that we are 'too proud to f ig"ht'
in defense of our helpless citizens who
are thus horribly butchered in a for
eign land.
"The solution of this great inter
national problem must now rest with
the eongress where your influence is
known to be a power, and we respect
fully request your aid in "bringing
about a settlement If other inter
national complications do not stand in
the way of just and speedy action."
WEATHER COLDEST
IN MANY YEARS
Stockmen and Fruit Growers
in Middlewest Fear Heavy
Losses 35 Below at
Dodge City.
SLEET BREAKS WIRES
Disordered Train Service and
Telephone Communication
Mercury Still Dropping.
Kansas City, Mo., Jan. 13. The
great cold wave, borne from the north
west on the wings of a seventy-mile
wind, stretched itself all over the
southwest today and dipped its south
ern fringe into the Gulf of Mexico.
Temperatures ranged from 22 degrees
below zero at Omaha. Nebraska, no
2G degrees above at Corpus Christ!.
Texas. Yesterday Corpus Christ! was
baskiusrin -sunshine wjfh-ttre mercury
at 72 degrees. Galveston, too, had a
drop of 2S overnight.
With diminishing, winds, the worst
of the storm has passed, according to
the local weather bureau. This morn
ing there was strong winds and the
observer saw a slowly ascending tem
perature. Kansas City, Mo , Jan. 13. The
southwest experienced last night its
coldest weather in years and awoke
this morning to sub-zero temperature
with a vision of troubles, a day full
of bursted water pipes, scanty gas,
disordered train schedules and de
moralized wire communications
Suffering and property loss contri
buted to the cold wave was accentu
ated by the apparently mild weather
up to this time Stockmen and fruit
growers particularly expressed fear
of large losses, tho former because
many cattle had not been removed
from pasture when snow and sleet,
driven by an icy wind, began falling
on the ranges and the latter because
fruit trees had begun developing un
usually large and tender buds, under
the warm winter sun.
One Death Reported.
Despite tho abnormal temperatures
and blizzard conditions only one death
directly due to the severe weather
had been reported early today. John
Cook. GS years-old, a laborer, was
found in a snowdrift in St. Joseph,
Mo , and died of exposure.
Kansas last night reached the cold
est point In the southwest. Dodge
City, thermometers registered 35 de
grees below zero. Many other places
suffered in temperatures of zero to
20 bolow.
Telegraph and telephone communi
cation through Kansas, Missouri, Ok
lahoma. Iowa and Nebraska was be
set with difficulties because of the
Sleet torn u Ires.
In Kansas City an unofficial tem
perature of nine below was reached
at midnight with the mercury still
dropping.
Seattle, Wash., Jan. 13. The unus
ually heavy snowfall and severe cold
snap in Washington and Oregon have
resulted, it became known today, in
tho shutting down of many logging
camps and saw mills. More than 2,-
uuu loggers in uio uray s naroor reg
ion alone have been thrown tempor
arily out of employment.
At Malta, Mont., yesterday the tem
perature dropped to 5S degrees below
zero.
Freighter Piled Up in Storm.
Victoria, B. C, Jan. 13. The Jap
anese freighter Keukon Maru ni,
which piled up in a snowstorm on a
reef yesterday between Mayne and
Saturna Islands at the entrance to
Active PasB, B. C, probably will be
refloated, according to reports receiv
ed today. A salvage steamer and
scows are standing by to lighter part
of her deckload, which consists or
heavy railroad equipment consigned
to Vladivostock from Seattle, Wash.
Thirty-three Degrees Below.
Sioux Falls, S. D Jan. 13. Thirty
three degrees below zero was the tem
perature officially recorded here last
night, the coldest for several years.
Robert Jacobson, a farmer living near
Salem, was found dead in his buggy
and his companion, badly frozen, was
lying on tho ground nearby.
Much suffering lias been reported
through this section and all tele
graphic service Is badly demoralized.
4
STRONG BRITISH MUTlH
FRENCH ONSLAUGHTS ARE REPUlM
'3-H -I
'lmR- -Hi
' ' 9HHl HI
Fighting in Champagne and Near Armentieres Favoraljkfl
Germans Montenegrins Make Stout Fight Against lH9
trians Although Outnumbered Five to One Turl&Hfl
Will Join Teutonic Allies in Attacking Entente IIJB
Armies at Saloniki Queen of Greece Is jk f9H
Summoned to Bedside of Brother, m'JK-H
Emperor William, Who Is Re- Jri
ported Critically 111. ifB
thbH. si m i
'sfSBt ' -
Berlin, Jan. 13, by wireless to Sayville. A stronpK IB
ish attack near Armentieres and two French onslaughtsl3BeAH
Champagne were repulsed by the Germans, the war offSrSB
nounced today. fe VV 'H-i
W& iH
London, Jan. 13. A wireless dispatch from Rorhfey'iH
that Queen Sophia of Greece has been summoned to dBYtJB
side of her brother, Emperor William, whose illness B-lcB
scribed as serious. The queen, the message says, is to Boaf fc&B
at once for Berlin. !-&-&H
New York, Jan. 13. The new Ley land liner Hufit 'jl
from Galveston was torpedoed on December 29 off thjcjjty ;
coast, according to reports current in shipping circles 9&p- ? . ' I
The International Mercantile Marine said they had receS&a ..I
cablegram stating that the Huronian had met with injuimScT .? I
had been towed into port, but the message did hot statejBj: ' I
had caused the damage. 1K. 1
The Huronian sailed from Galveston bound for Livecipl I
on December 1 2. She was reported to have encountejH sf
submarine not far from the spot where the LusitaniajRnrl I
Arabic were sunk. She was built in 1915 in Glasgow.IJphe J
was 475 feet long and her registered gross tonnage is WiJJfdrQ, I
The Huronian carried a cargo consisting chiefly ofssocia- I
ton, corn and wheat valued at over $1,000,000, accordtnet.
her-published manifests. as,super-
3v schools.. Mi
Paris, Jan. 13. In view of the suc
cess of the Austrian offensive against
Mount Lovcen, measures have been
taken by the Montenegrin govern
ment to evacuate Cenuinje immediate
ly, according to a Scutari dispatch,
says the "Petit Journal's Milan corre
spondent. The government, however, has de
cided to continue the struggle against
tho Austrians, the dispatch adds.
French Blow Up Bridge.
Saloniki, Greece, Jan. 13. via Lon
don. The important railroad bridge
over the Struma river at Demir Hsiar
has been blown up by French, engin
eers as a precautionary measure.
Austrian Forces Advancing.
Paris, Jan. 13. Austrian forces ad
vancing from Cattaro and Budna have
reached Mitchitze. five miles from An
tlvari, which is being bombarded by
the Austrian long range guns, accord
ing to a dispatch to L'Ouevre, under
Tuesday's date.
Teuton Attack on Large Scale.
Rome, Jan. 13, via Paris. Tho at
tack of the Teutonic allies on the
entente forces defending Saloniki is
being developed on a large scale, ac
cording to the Athens correspondent
of the Giomale d'ltalia, telegraphing
under Tuesday's date. He reports
that a bombardment of the British
line to the Qpiran zone proceeded all
day Monday. -
Turks to Fight Allies.
Rome, Jan 13. The German com
mander of the attacking forces at
Saloniki says tho correspondent will
make use of Austrian. Eulgarian and
Turkish forces. The participation of
the Turks has been doubtful, he adds,
but it is now certain that they will
be included In the atacking army.
Montenegrins Make Strong Fight.
Paris. Jan. 13. The correspondent
telegrnphing from Scutari says that
the Montenegrins, aided by Serbian
contingents, are making a strong re
sistance, although outnumbered five
to one.
London, Jan. 13. The news from
the eastern front of the capture of
Sadagura is regarded in military cir
cles as probably true, although offi
cial announcement on the subject has
not been received.
The town just northwest of Czerno
witz, is a converging point for five
good roads, and is of great strategic
importance. Prior attompts to cap
ture it have been stoutly resisted.
o....,.!-,., rtfn.ncif Mot Suspended.
The report from Petrograd that the
offensive In Gallcia and Bessarabia
had been suspended for the present is
regarded as at least premature. The
Russian offensive could not. It Is be
lieved, be suspended suddenly as it
was undertaken after careful prepar
ations and launched with unexpected
strength. The object of that offen
sive Is said to be three-fold: To dem
onstrate to tho Rumanians that the
Russian forces are able to assume the
initiative when they choose; second
ly to divert Austro-German forces
from the Balkans, tho western front,
and finally to improve the general
strategic position of their left flRnk.
While the full effect of this Rus
sian offensive cannot yet be deter
mined, entente military experts af
firm that the second object was at
tained, that the "situation in the Bal
kans was sensibly relieved and that
the operation undertaken by the Ger
mans against the French in Cham
pagne was robbed of Its Yorce.
Greek Government Protests.
The fact that the French flag is
now waving over the palace on the is
land of Corfu, which belonged to the
German emneror and that the occu
pation of tho Greek Island by the
I entente is considered as "uparviston i
has, it is reported, already cy 'Kgeew' H
protest from the Greek goveL . fcLSf
It is said that the protest JSigcSi A
formal and that the allies havLAhfl '.B
Greece guarantees regarding nMraMi
tentions. Greece, it is un&fXfeaa'orei' H
takes a sympathetic view on. SirttVlH
teute action as it is for theV veqg2gf
of preventinUxe Serbian axuRK-f fl
risking the danger ofstaryatioij&(jt.H
German Offensive on Big ScJe.B
The German offensive in HWfeifisH
pagne which reached its culm&jjitiiJRWlJ
Sunday is insistently reportcirpr f
French headquarters as havinjK,'h4t" 1
undertaken on an important scae M&K I "iB
with a definite military purposig: TjUa"' iH
failure is declared to have been coi$4jH
plete and the strong Gcmanforcre',' n
which were employed suffered tprixiK ""flH
losses. &! IH
The Austrian forces are steadUy de- H
veloping their campaign in Maxrtene- H
gro and military experts believe n H
fall of Cettinje, the capital of Mopie- H
negro, is possible soon. H
H
Greece Enters Protest. (
London, Jan. 13. The Greek ,gqv-i
ernment, says a dispatch from-Aui-. JH
ens. has protested against the pcQu fl
pation of the island of Corfu, by. tba fH
entente powers. It is believed iiyAt-
ens that the arrest of the Austrian 11
and German consuls at Corfu iacev- H
tain to follow. f n- H
The correspondent telegraphsUxrTB
British and French ships have latfaed H
in Albania to obtain supplies Tor ,150,- "H
000 Serbians. ' m H
t w-
TRAINS STALLE 1 i
WESTOFCHICffl I
All Railroad Traffic Seriqply H
Delayed in Middlewest vy; " M
Great Storm. yf"l M
EXTREME SUFFERttG
Snow, High Winds and JW H
Temperatures Still Pre; IV? ;
Canada Ice-bound M( JH
Chicago, Jan. 13. The storm ucjb JM
began yesterday in the middla !$& H
continued today, snow, high wia Hjjli jH
high temperatures prevailing oi - ; H
linois, Iowa, Missouri, Kansas W .1 H
branska, the Dakotas, Minnesot fe H
Wisconsin. j !&&( H
From the TJanadian northwest; ffljtf Jm
also came reports, of unusuall'H''-.v M
temperatures, the thermometTOtf: BB
Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, IJR1? ,j
to 5S below zero. W& ' jH
According to meager reports, ;FA- JH
Iowa, the Dakotas and MIunesot"e jH
tho worst sufferers on account, the iH
heavy snow fall and the loweMtenv H
peratures. 1. iH
St. Paul' reported 33 degrees'MfO; jV
zero, Hannah. N. D., 53 belogRM
Des Moines. Iowa, 22 below. !-.' flVAVj
Railroad traffic west of cWd H
has been seriously delayed aM, in
many instances trains haveeii JH
abandoned. At Council Bluff?, 7a H
more than twenty passenger JFS H
are stalled, unable to move in tftnec
direction. & . J
Telegraph and telephone coijjfj".1 H
cation with the west was praa?, H
shut off early today, all eompalt55 - tH
porting that regular routes ir,L ,H
commission entirely. ft; Y
HHflHHflBEjB'?iiH9HHii
