m.
S.'SSS
wmm it in.
I know I haTo an awfnl could,
". For misery It should Mifflcc;
But all mj friends, both new and old,
Insist on aUlng me niHIcc.
' FOUNDDEAD
Silas Hawking Colored, Discovered
Near 1'offiio Distillery Thnrs.
day Morning.
Thursday morning at 6 o'clock,
Charles Nautnan, an eraployo of the
'C. & 0., who lives bolow this city,
whllo on, his way to work, mado a
greusomo find, Wh&n near the II. B.
Pogue distillery Nauman discovered
a colored man lying Waldo the rail
, road track and when io nttcmptcd to
arouse him, It was foil id tho colored
man was dead. CornoiJ Charles Slack
was notified and after A. brief investi
gation the dead roan's naino was found
to be Silas Hawkins of llio Fifth ward.
By the dead man's sld. was a quart
of . whisky. A watch a'iid other valu
ables were found In the pockets. Tho
cause of tho death lr- not known, but
It is conjectured he died from effects
of the cold. The remains were removed
to the morgue.
WILSON.
Mr. and. Mrs. Emmltt Wilson of the
West End, arc rejoicing over the ar-
flal of sn eight-pound baby boy at
their home Thursday morning at 3:30.
Mother and child doing splendidly,
whllo tho father Is simply kicking up
.all sorts of happy didos.
CHAIX-TODD.
Raymond Crain and and Miss May
Bello Todd, both of Fleming county,
were united in marriage by Itev. A. F.
Stahl of tho Christian church on Wed
nesday. The couple departed for a
honeymoon trip after the ceremony.
" nor WANTED.
A boy for paper routo Jn West End.
See Tl J. Currey at The Ledger office
hetween 7 nnd 8 and 10 and 11 o'clock.
Henry Clay of Mt. Carmcl, haB qual
ified as deputy sheriff- of Fleming
county.
BIG RIVER
It Is Now Expected That tho Ohio
At This Point Will Pass tho
Dancer Line of Fifty Feet.
For the third tlmo within thirty
days the Ohio river is almost bank full
nn 1 rising at a rato that will Insure
the passing of the danger lino at this
point by Friday night.
Owing to tho excessive precipitation
tho last forty-eight hours, all tho up
river streams nro pouring out big, and
hb the rainfall has been over tho entire
wntcr-slicd of the Ohio, it is reason
ably fair to prcsuino that tho fifty-foot
mark wilt bo passed at this point.
To thoso who reside and havo busl
nesb within tho dangor zone, it Is best
for them to move up higher, and thus
prevent a loss. Kven If tho water
docs not reach them it is far better to
be on tho safo side.
Tho long expected cold wave ar
rived Thursday night, which will havo
a tendency to check the rising waters
nnd prevent a disaster, such as oc
curred In 1913.
Itesldcnts along Front street bo
tween Market and Limestone have
moved up a story, whllo a number In
oilier low places aro preparing cither
to move up or out, and aside from
tho inconvenience of moving, will savo
tliemsolvcs a distinct loss.
Tho gaugo at 0 o'clock stood at 45
feet and rising.
FLEMING C0UNT1' COUPLE MARKY
HERE.
Wednesday afternoon In tho office
of County Clerk Owens, MIsb Lena
Tool, 21, and Clar.cnco Price, 21, both
of Fleming county, wcro married by
County Judgo nice. TJio couplo Is
well known In this city, having visited
hero several times. After a short
honeymoon tho couplo will make their
homo In Fleming county, whero tho
groom has prepared a pretty homo for
bin bride.
Mr. Joo Capront spent Wednesday in
Cincinnati.
FRIDAY EVENING, JANUARY II,
1910.
Havo you over heard David derrick?
Wouldn't you llko to henr one of tho
best dramatic Interpreters In a de
lightful llttlo comedy 'sketch,! "Tho
Wcthcroll Wedding?" Como out, then,
to tho High School Friday evening and
hear Joseph O'Mcara'B artistic frcndl
tloiiB of tho above, He Is a) most
charming reader, pleasing actor and
lending exponent of dramatic nrt.
Dr. James H. Hutclilna of Dover,
was In Maysvllle Wednesday on pro
fessional buslnesB.
Huntington and Pnrkersburg, W.
Va., reported at midnight Wednesday
tho rainfall was 2.6 Inches, tho heavi
est since the 1913 flood.
Pittsburg Pa.. January 12 (Mid
night) With the Monongahela river
on a rampage, a stage of moro than
eighteen feet Is expected at the Point
bridgo tomorroy morning. Tonight the
Ohio river nt Davis Island dam was
rising at the rate of ,3 of a foot an
hour. From Pittsburg on down tho
Ohio Is rising about two Inches an
hour.
SALE POSTPONED.
The sale which was to havo been
held today by Mr. and Mrs. B. F. Colo
at their home near Murphysvllle, has!
been postponed until Saturday, Janu-f
ary 22, on account of the high atngo
of the North Fork, which has covered
tho road. "
George W.. Davis has been appoint
ed carrier on Route No. 4 out of Flem-lngsburg.
1915 -OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
HWe irish to tbaak w maty friends Hi cnstMrs for their liberal MtrwHB fr this.
r fMrtt year in business, which has proven to be considerable beyeed wr Mtla'HtH for
which m are very thankful.
We are new looking forward to a greatly increased tesiwss the coming yw and we
nave hkiwbb in latest aw nasi improTcu eqwptiieni m uwmmg year amis, wwen gm
attics high grade mill work and satisfaction to all, at the best pessiMe prices.
We are leaders ear line.
tuc menu iiiudcd pmjdauv corner limestone akb secsnd
MIL IflHUUn LUmULIl UUmiHIll STREET. PH8NE519.
a. a. Mclaughlin.
L. X. BEHAN.
Ill
Well, Folks,!
We Were Sorry You ALL
Were Not Lucky
but there's, another day, Washington's
Birthday. Save your Tickets.
We have just finished our inventory,
and are now ready for another year. We
have the goods -to sell you, at the right
prices; our entire time and attention is
given to the selection of goods for you;
we anticipate your wants; try to make our
store attractive to you; our working force
polite and attentive, and we cordially in
vite your patronage. We are here to do
business and have the goods and prices.
Can vou find any excuse for going
elsewhere?
Let us pull together for a bigger and
.better Maysville.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
Don't forget that the same tickets are good for the
second drawing on Washington's Birthday. Maybe
III L I..-L-. - . .1. f tl
i
THE BIO 3STWXJA3Li
January Clearance Sale
IS NOW IN FULL BLAST AT
J. WESLEY LEE'S
fcgCLOTHING, SHOES AND FURNISHING G00DSr
The entiro stock of liigh-grndc merchimilise consisting
of Men's and Hoys' Clothing, Furnishings and Shoes placed
upon tho market at prices that stagger belief. Everything
goes for what it will bring and wo are not bound by former
costs or selling prices. The greatest, biggest, broadest,
grandest, most unparallclled, liberal, legitimate and-far
reaching merchandising event that has ever occurred in this
part of tho state.
Itemcmber, tins is not au ordinary bargain sale. It's
just a case of thousands of dollars' too much goods-and no4
enough money. It's just a real, old-fashioned, honest,
straight-out selling of dependable goods at prices far beloxv
their actual value.
You really ;au not afford to miss thjs great selling;
event. Be prudent spend your monpy where it wilt bu'v
tho most.
See our hand bills for prices better still, come to our
store and the great bargains we aro offering you. ?
J. WESLEY LEE
DELIGHTFUL SOCIAL AFFAIR, .
Mr. and Mrs. Klmcr Downing enter
tained six tables of bridge Tuesday
evening In honor or Mr. nnd Mrs.
Goorgo Bnllou, MIsr Armstrong nnd
Mr. W. V. Ball, Jr., Mrs. A. O. Tay
lor winning the ladles' nrlzo nnd Mr.
S F. Uecd tho gentlemen's prize The
hostess presented Mrs. Ballon nnd
Miss Armstrong with charming cro
tonno pillow covers, This wna follow
ed by n delicious tbrce-courso supper
PRAYER MEETING.
Itcgulnr weekly prayer meeting
service this evening at 7 o'clock at tho
Third Street M. R. church will bo led
by the pastor, Itev. J. M. Literal. A
Christian welcomo nwnlts oyu.
NOTICE TO PASTORS AMI CHURCH
CLERKS.
All announcements for Sunday serv
ices must be In this odlco by 12 o'clock
tomorrow to insure insertion.
Mr. W. L. Richards of West Union,
was n mld-wcok visitor here Wednes
day and took in tho tobacco sales.
Captain B. S. Parker of Paris, was
Sweet Oranges
Special 20c dozen.
! And the best New Orleans Molasses in
Maysville at 65c per gallon.
107 West Second Street.
Phone 20.
Mr, Austin Davidson of Illplcy, was
hero on business Wednesday
Mr. A. II. Prather of Sherburne, was
In this city Wednesday on business.
! EVERYBODY'S DOING IT
Covgh, Sneeje, Head Stopped Up, Nose and Eyes
Red, Headache, Sore Throat.
IT'S GRIP!
We Can Sell You a SURE CURE
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
n Jlnysvlllo business visitor on Wed-j Mr. Walker Harney of East Second tnck of grip and u slight stroko of
nceday. 'street, Is confined to his bed by an at- paralysis.
-THE GOOD CLOTHES MAN-
THIRTY-SIX YEARS SELLING HIGH-GRADE MER,
OHANDISE IN MAYSVILLE
The Home of Quality Clothes
Everything points to high-record prices for clothes next year everything that
goes into their making has gone way up.
Consider this wnen you see these prices can't you see it would prove the
height of economy to buy clothes now.
THE SUITS--
All of our $16.50 and $18 Suits .. $15
. All of our $22.50 and $25 Suits '. $20
THE OVERCOATS
All of our $18 and $20 Overcoats $15
All of our $12.50, $13.50 and $15 Overcoats $10
THESE PRICES MEAN CASH
'A big reduction in Mackinaw Coats. These coats are the most serviceable
'men's outer garments ever conceived.
D. PiEGPilTSTG-BP?, &. CO.
JUDGE COCHRAN UPHELD
Federal Supreme Court Dismissed the
Appeal of the Homo Bonding
Company Against II. V.
JlcCliesney.
Tho Supremo Court oi the United
StateB dismissed tho appeal of tho
Home Bond Company of Indianapolis
against H. V. McChesney, trustee In
bankruptcy for tho American Fibre
Reed Company and tho New England
Chair Company, both of Frankfort, Ky.
Tho court affirmed the Judgments of
tho United States Circuit Court of Ap
peals, Judge A. M. J. Cochran, of tho
United States District Court for tho
Eastern District of Kentucky; D. W.
Lindsey of Frankfort, special master
In bankruptcy, and Trustee McChes
ney. The caso grew out of a contract
mado between tho bonding company
and the reed and chair companies over
accounts of tho lattor held as surety
for loans. Tho bonding company
sought to obtain $2,85.88 from tho
chair company and $2,409.25 from the
reed company, but Mr. McChesney held
It had only a lien on tho accounts and
waa entitled to J57G.10.
The Supremo Court of the United
States affirmed this ruling with costs.
The case- was taken up on appeal at
the October, 1913, term of the, court.
ATTItACTIVE WINDOW.
BARGAINS FOR CHRISTMAS
'HWEKT OKANGKS ISe MZKKt X.KM6M l(e M)ZKX NUTS
H(frHJNH FKKSX 4.V CeXFKOTIWKHH JAJI. LET US NATS
,Tho west window of tho Chenoweth
Drug Company at the corner of Sec
ond and Sutton streets, Is one of the
most unique ever presented In this
city. Tho scene represents a rural
landscape and Is complete In every
particular, even having figures of
cows, homos and pigs grazing In real
grass and Is the work of Dr. W. J.
Hockaday and his assistants.
DIES IN WASHINGTON STATE.
Mrs. Tilford Bally, wlfo of Mr Til
ford Bally, son of Mr. and Mrs. M. C.
Bally of this city, died at her homo In
North Yakima, Wash., last Wednesday
afternoon at 2 o'clock from ptomaine
poisoning. Sho Is survived by her
buqband ond three llttlo girls.
FOU l'UUti WHISKIES.
Send your order to us. Shipment
made samo day received. I'oyutx Bros.,
iU Scott street, Covington, Ky.
Mr. J. II. Carpenter of West Union,
wai a business visitor In this city
Wendcsday.
Mr. K. C. Mills of Felicity, O., was
trMHctlBK buslu&M In Maytvllto
CLEARAWAY OF BLOUSES
A la t-of-the- year scrutiny of all our blouse stocks discovered here and there odd sizes, crumpled gar
ments and styles to be discontinued. Out they all go at rieyv prices. They will interest you. Come in.
Dresses Price Lessened
A number of silk serge and silk and serge dresses, suitable for morning, school, business and after
noon wear, have been reduced to $7.50, $10.00, $12.50 and $15.00.
Excellent values Materials smart and serviceable. Stylish New York models. Workmanship
high class.
Coats at Cut Prices---$5.00 to $12.50
Coats practical enough for every day service and smart enough for "dress-up" wear. Splendid
bargains.
1852
TTTTTSTT?
3 1916 I
Mrs. Jack Hawthorno and daughter,
Anne Elizabeth, of Covington, are the
guests of lior mother here.
Mr. M. M". Ilhode8 of Ewlng, was at
tending the tobacco sales hero Wednesday.
Mr, W. T. Churchill of Fleming
county, was a Maysvllle business vis
itor. Wednesday.
Mr. M. O. Gardner of West Point,
Ky., was in Maysvillo Wednesday on
business.
t
DOUBLE STAMPS
-AuGkA-IJST SATURDAY I
Nearly all the Big Bargains advertised in our big circular will be on sale again
Saturday with Double Stamps.
Take our advice, come
RAIN OR SHINE OR SNOW!
It will be a long time before you buy goods again at the prices we are selling
them today.
mmajhmi mmmmm nm mm "Meat flBK Z
JMQL JBfi JHrmr tMmm wMam JU W IBP - f
't i
'1 I
