UUULINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, .JANUARY III, HUG.
NUMBER 21).
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
M ll ! Hi
mm 11H CONGRESS 01
KILLING OF AMERICANS IN 110
Resolution Offered in Senate That It, lie Vne ftensej
of Congress That Unless Carranza Can at j
Once Guarantee Protection of Foreigners'
Lives and Property United Stales Should In-:
tervene House Resolution Asks r resident
If It Isn't Time to Abandon Watchful Wait
ing and Invade Mexico.
NO OUTWARD SIGN
PRESIDENT WILL
CEITINJE, CAPITAL
OF MONTENEGRO. IS
NOW IN DANGER
Seems Likely to Suffer (he Kate
of HclRi'iidc Overwhelming
Strength of Austrian Invaders
Cannot Be Withstood Longer.
EVERYDAY PROBLEMS COMPULSION BILL
GOES THROUGH ITS
UNDER DISCUSSION S3
VERMONT DAI"
V 71 r TTi A 7
'25IUM5 n-'lO ' -
SECOND READING
CHANGE POLICY
nshiuctoi . Jan IJ. Congress 'Mi."
pwept In a w i - o nf iMipn-s loneil indigna
tion to-dnv mm r tin- killing '! nnTiruu
HIv;i-,i. h Moxl.nn ' . 'Ill- ncir
I 'ilh'in-i.i I'ruininls 1 i ,( timi (nine
fiom mln-nil mcinhcts nnd while tlic
tidmlt Istratloi. leaders mens. -lied palicnie,
n Senator Stone, : bail man nf the
t-'ri a'r foreign lel.Hlnns cummiltcc, mi
ll 'led Hint It ( arranzn, lifter it full' tiltii,
fji "(1 In prutect foreigners III Mexico.
i rv Minn w.i Inevltiililr.
' ettnosmicie was surcharged Willi
i aunt upii the Semite ami House
" nd I'e 't.iiiii In nkc quickly. Sciritoi
S ii inn l j I -1 1 - Mil. nf Illinois int I uilureii
Millnt. u (MilrjiH the sense nf ( 'illl-
Senatnr Thomas nf ' 'nlm nil". n!."i ml-
vIhimI against IntefVelll Inn uMepl hh mi
II lift X nlllllllle tcsnlt, declaring tile Pulled
States never Would get nllt nf Mexico i
Present Indications That United
States Will Take No Fur
ther Action ahout Mex
ico Than Indicated.
I
1 II '1
c (
1 1
I -It '
I .led
I
p should In InterveiHimi
.iii'i iiml Pan-Amei lean
in ii-T.il i 'in run.. i nuhl
witn n ileimiml Hint he
pi nip t
nf
3 i
t
l
i
1 r
1 !
t I
H.e H -s iiml prnpcrtv nf foiclgn-
i the House. Iteilrxi-lilnli p I Iyer
Mlssic n ntfireil n icinlu-iuu asking
"nlpet V ii?.nii if he iliil urn think the
i n inhPil tn nhmilnli w 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
mi mil linade Meh'i
r tr nmlmiH weie nnl nele'l llnll.
' hri irfp.i..,! tn Ihr ful l Ign nf
inlnn.ltli' pill there Was Ill-ell
If Its lit lilies crossed the Kin (itnll'le
I In innile n vigorous speech, n Ml II hid
the Stnndnid Oil company mill the I'.iit
snn ull syndicate, charging Hint these
Inleiests thruiigh rival efforts In innnnp
nllze Ihe nil prnpprlies In Mexico, had
lieeli responsible for the 1 pvnliillnns nf
tlint pniintr mill fur strife along the
tun ilnr.
Senator Slnrinnn's resolution prninpt
eil Senator Halllngcr tn lead n telegram
finill Judge I,. W. Holmes nf Now
llnniiishlte asking Hint everything P"t
vihle he llntle in lninte Ills snn. Thomas
Ii. llnlinis, nnly surviving member nf
the group nf Americans nttnekeil In- the
l .Meienii hnmlits near Chihuahua I. liter,
announcing Hint Holmes had Iippii lue.it
eil, Hip New Hmnpshh'e senntnr reinnrk-
eil Hint the tlnip eertnltily lnnl come fur1
innelllshe netlnn 111 Meen.
Senntnr Stnne expressed tile lipllpf J
I Hud the Iminllts entnniitteil the tii'ii-- j
ideis ilelil.ernte tn einhnrinss Hie I'm- I
I rn n yn eminent lie nsked Sen.itnr
i I'.llllillKer ullllt he Mnnld llnve tile
.1
npf
' dr
I ,lH
'I I
lie
h
I. it t MpMi.iii ntroilty n Keiieml I I " 11 1 1 I Stntes iln.
nf ic piiiineni Hint mnsi ennsei- Seiiitnr (inlllncer replied itli ns
Icilrr fninnl i iliriieiili tn i e. I sn rn nee Hint he had im desire to eni
S iiiilnr-- UnllhiEor mid I'.nr.ih. hnrrnss Ihe ndtninlst rn t inn in the Me
e ,ii 'I i. in side, In Hie upper ienn erlsls lint s.-iid ho Himmht the
I I'.e lei ins nf the Slierinn n I t line li.nl eniiie hen ntrneities nu'iilnst
i mn, v hp I, i)ee,iipi Hint II ill-- f,, re liners in Mch mst stnp. nnd
gn eminent nppp.lleil pn er, ,s 1 1, f ,,, faetn Bo em lne t ennld
lint preserve nrder, rreshleiit Wilsiin
shniild enniiniinlente viltli t.VniKresR nnd
nsk whit wns his further duty.
Senntnr Mnrah e'niphn tlenlly deelnrpd
f.i m tin . i inneiil shntteil Hi-- If ( tin- time hud ctinie for the Atnerleiui i
m nntmlliin; the Mtiintinn. 1 penple tn let their sentiment nil the
i ,-t'ip. hi coil pntimtie niipnrt '. ,Ieiemi pinldem lie know ii, nnrl he ns-
p.itieui Inrlie.ii n nee a Heil id,, ailiiiiplstrntlnirs pnlley as
nil i Mn la les.-.iipi,s In .Mexien
mil hitereeiiiirn, Hi,, cinlj al
e ill Iocs tep.irnlinns fur the flu
ent r.iKe em spppdlly ninde and
iishlimtnii. .Inn. 1;.-There vi.is mi
Inillentlnli tn-nluht Hint the flllteil States
Mn.lhl take any rmlher .u linn In the ense
nf the A met leans slain hy Villa handita
In Mexien heynnd Its iloniand fin Hip
appr dienslnn and tmnlshnient nf the out
laws, nr at the ninst tn hnld (leneral I'nr
r.'iii7..i lesponsltile fur the niiirdcis If it
Is shnwn that his nfflel.ils were iiei;liKPtit
in prnvidln' proteetinii fur the pally.
AltliniiKh Hie latPKt nntiime stirred the
simmei Iiik Atish-an slliiation .-multi to the
hiiillnu pnlnt and iIipu in ('impress mi
niithiir.-t or nttai-ks upon the adnilnlstra
tlnn prnliahlv iineipialled sinee the lliie-tn
erisls tn .ears .ifn, tle-ie was no nnt-
ma sikii Hint I'reHlent Wllsnn una
helim inllneneed tn alter his pnlle.v. A
pinpnsal In- Spiintnr Sheiinan. t epnhllcan,
fnr hunt IntPi ventlnn hy the I'an-A merl-
e; atlnns whe, ,,! In the leenKtiltlnti
nl Li-neral r.uianza was refrrreil wllh
nnt aetlnii in the Senate fnielcn tpla
tlnns i iitnmltlee.
While Sc-eietaiy l.ansinc In a state
ment ,-t n in u ii.-... I Hiat "Kvory step will
laHeii to see that tlm perpetra tors
he
J SEW MENACE TO ITALY
Reduction of Montenegro En
ables Austria to Command
Adriatic and Threaten
ny Advance
Two Helpful Addresses by Member of Faculty of
New York State College of Agriculture
Vermont's Commissioner of Agriculture Tells
How Dairy Products May Be Improved
New Hampshire Man's Experiences with
Jerseys John Bond of East Montpelier and
R. H. Bristol of Waltham Carry Off the But
ter Prizes.
Flank of
Saloniki.
the
from
l.oiiilnn. .1 mi.
nf Mnntenectn.
fer the fate i
oh.-erers ate
12. -I'pttln.ip, Hip i npl'nl
lliuv seems likely In sllt
if Helmnde, and Hritlsh
ilroady iisUIiik nnxinittsly
T r nlrn
a ml
1 i 1
t n
f
ipi inn nl nf tr.in nut tie I -side-Meppiim, pi nerastitin I lii jr. ainln
ii eiiinieni slnnilil in-nvp a'ui'He and iin-Amei hvin "
, 111 the Unlike, d isetisslnn lifter the
i.i a pines himself inefri-i liitroiliietion of the Hjer re.snliitinn was
r etih.l. "If hp Is nnahhi tn In-ief. Ilepreseiita t he Ihiirv of Ti-mis
ii il mid In Inline safely j defended the administration, deelarlni;
ii li li-ii, I think ullli the President Wllsnn had kept the fulled
mi Id.ihn. Mr. I'.nrah. Ih.it Stales nut of war with Mexico nnd dp- I
i on- tiling tn du, and thai ' imiiii. Iiik lornier t Invei imr folfiiltt nf
In Mi then, al ined and Intel - j Te.. is tur an attack nn the rreshletit's
I .Meeaii poliev
HANK APPRAISALS.
ell S, ii,. iiiinrd Mas Ili-nrlne '.s
liilillsh iiliiiiHnn.
Mmitrii Mi l .Jan. i.' The hnard created
Ijj an a t of the I'd.", l.elslatin e,
pri inc Slate Treasnier Walter I-'.
RETURNED FOR FAREWELL
i
i
enm- I
Scott.
Hank f ninii'issiniicr frank Williams
and Ta. f oniniisslnner f'hnrles A. I'lum
lcj tn in I as appraisers of haul; stock,
no' tin a ftci nnnn In the supreme cunrt
j i at the Slate House. The hoard
1s piiiiiom-i i d under Ihe su-l to
thr ,-iiialiun nf Stale nnd
h, ill h In Vetninnt which ale leipili-Pct tn
jppuit In Hie tax cninmisslnriet I'l lor
in I i p. i -.mi
n 'l rni,
1 I l I ' 1 lp
I n ii, i e I l .
f i.l s II
I ,il-l N( .1
i rpreentocl .
in ii' -cd ii
nWc that the
ri.'M.il dn
nf tli n'-t lislors In. t ie
iiimln tie riypial-els, '
dltfel put alnai inl f. 1.1
and tn stahllsli nr.!-
pess'.h!.- trie law lis j
. .t peine of li.inlvS were'
Hie V-arlns. ulihh com-
0- In. I;, ntid it !n prob-
1- l. of nupial--! will ta'tu
ONVKTEt) OF BURGLARY.
Inliii lliiiiiili, WMiiti'il nn l.nrceii,
tin inc. Hal lice, line L'lilliiillnll
Itcerllll,
Mhlillehtirj , .Ian. 12. Inhn Donah, whn
had enlisted as a fiiiuiillau iccruit fnr
the lirUish army, nnd who cnnio home
tn MiA" Knod-hyp to his father, was ar
icsted at his home In Shorehmii this
morniiu.'. chaiKid with the larceny of a
estnhlislil llelKluin mn ii valued nt JJ.V) nnd a fniir
nutlonnl 1 .venr-nhl cult valued nt $1.7) from Patrick
i Ityan lust .Inly 1, In Addison cniinty
court he pleaded guilty, hut sPiitctien
, wn-i not passed. iitlicr charKcs are
, s.ild to Im haiiKiiiK over Ii i ni. hut whether j
t icy v, iM he htniiKht u)i at the iircMMit I
I',' i in of cn.nty court Is douhtfiil. '
The ariesl ot lioiiah come after a long
w.iit. It nns lpurnpfl that he was ut
li. fnthor's home Four ilpputy sheriffs,
Noble J. Snnford and ndwaid HlKKitiH
of Mlddlp'nury, flporup. S. nrr of HrH
tnl and Ilnrily K. Hanford of Cornwall,
were sent nftpr him. They locatpd tho
youiifr man at the house, hut ho ran out
and wis only halted after Donuty San.
ford discharged his rovolvcr, when ho
surrendered. Ho was dressed In the uni
form of a recruit.
of this ikistardh crime are apprchend-
i(i nun putnsiicd tie added tlint It was
tn he deplored tint Americans had not
heeded the state department's warnincs
n Kiii mm cximsliiK their lives In Hm
KUerllln win-fare territory. Ill ilelln
ilii; the rlcht nf Aiiioricnlis In leiritnry
uiidpr the snverelmity of another na
tion lie declaicd that a non-combatant
i ru mm the daiiKcr of losins his liheity
tor his life If he ventnrcH intn territory
where the authority Is iiu. pi tutu.
Aliliouuh the aiiacks in foiiKiess upon
Pi c sklent Wilson's pollc. weie almost
unmeasured In terni" the administra
tion was not null. nit defrinlers anuiiiK
the dcmn.-tntlc Ic.kIpis. who clinlleiiKPd
tlx Ii- trlllcs tn pnlnt out a better cnuiso
mid ic-nlleil that diuiiiK the Tafl ml
inliiisi ial l.ni i f snltit lutis irotiosln; Inter
ciitinn were vlciiruusly nppnsed by the
I rcpilblleuiis.
The innrt slnlllcant development nf
the euiiRi'cssiunal dehnln enmo in the
Senate, where Chairman Stone nf the
f Ik li relations cniilliilttce, himself a
denmcr.il, declnri'd that if C.encral Car
ranza prnved himself unlit to trstnre
nrder "there Is nuly one HiIiik tn du,
and that Is In ko down thnri; armed
and intervene."
For the present he counselled leaving
the .situation in tho hands of President
Wilson.
SKCP.KTAHV l.A.N'SINC.'rf NOTK
of
(irnutl
and lo
behiff "orounht to
'Jjixrh I'nluanil -(iHcneriI In
I dip Cninit Conrt.
v ,m i H pro, .1 n i . . 12 -.losepli Patnnud
rlias .looph Mnrlln, plpuded Ktiilty
lirmiil U le ountv -ourt Tiusdnv- to lull'
Idrv nnd was sentenced to serve not lers
. ,i i two nor niore than three years at.
t p Si te prson. II- was chnrKcd with j Mellows Palls, Jan. 12. The annual
1 ,-c:iMnK n-'o Hie unoccupied nouso or t ,dwlntPr Instituto of the Vnitarlan-
1" i UNITARIAN-UNIVERSALIST
ASSOCIATION IN SESSION
J vroti V.. JbCnrKPr, late of AlhurR, and
t kiln; ' fill' ,CMl :l furlined coat.
Tip iiropc"l. , it nppf-nrcd, had been re-Sui-ned,
.Iiidf-p 1'' I" ' h "r Vcri;ennes presided,
r id fif'er tin formal opening of lourt the
ir. i.ilonuar was c.illeil. Thete were
i ily two enses set for tilal, namely .led P.
1 ..old i. tleoiRO W, Sahrn and .lohn Hlalr
ii William l.a Pierre and others. Tim
Hist uaiiicd was entered "continued" and
t o second "settled nnd discontinued." Tho
r inilnal calendar contained four cases,
ivllich wpro disposed of :ib indicated. Klate
John nocqttp. assault, respondent
Vlciided KUllty and wan admittPil to pio
btition; Ktnto vs. Henry Allen, lhiuor. con
tinued; Stato vs. Clydo Hill, rape, contin
ued. Knur cases were set to tho court.
lit-pc of them were disposed of hy entries
or continued. Tho other, Victor Cohen vs.
A K, Hlillltci', to recover for certain poods
told' by II") defendant for the plaintiff,
was entered judKinent for tho plaintiff in
11, e mini of $212.19. A certified execution
h-.ib Issued because the money was obtaln
r 1 In a fiduciary capacity.
Tho petit Jurors called to servo at thlsi
i nil wero duly empanelled and sworn at
Ihe afternoon session. There bclnh' h
I isliiess for them to do they wero dks.
i arKcd lor the term.
li j:, liiowu, V. A. liiillatd, Jeil P.
1 mid and John II. .Minims of tlm Cliitten
i n nullity ''nr. unil .Maishall Alexander
n id IJ (! Finnan of the I'Vankllu coun1
court were in uttcttUattvu.
Unlversallst Association of Vermont
and tho Province of Quebec. bPRim this
afternoon In tho Unlversallst Church.
Thorn wero addresses by the Itev
Charles .1. Staples of ItiirllnKton, presi
dent of the association, tho Itev. Mar
Wirnt R. Darnard of Howe, Mass., sec
rotary of the Hur.a.1 Church Commis
sion of tho Massachusetts Federation
nf Churches, Dr. Mltchel of tho Crane
Theological school of Tufts CoIIcko and
Dr. J. M. Atwood. dean of tho St. Law
rence. Theological School at Canton. N.
V.
In a well-nttenderl meeting this c.ve
nlnif which was tho only one of the
session open to tho public, tho Ilov.
I.eo S. McColIlster. IX IX, president of
the. Unlversallst Ocneral Convention of
Tufts CnlleKe, spnko on tho need of
organized liberal rellttlon, ,and thn P.ev
Samuel A. Kllot, president of the Am
erican 1'iiltarlfin Association of Cam
brlilKe, Mass., spoko on other phases
of tho snmo subject.
Tho sessions will contlnuo throutrh
to-morrow aftornoon when officers
will bo elected.
Secretary Lansing, wltli the approval
nt President Wllsnn, to-d.iy sent to
Consul Sllllniaii nt gueretato tho follow
ing note:
"On January 1", c. R. Watson, chair
man of the Mine and Smelter Operators'
assoplatlon ot chihuahua, and the gen
eral manner of tie- ''"oslhulraplilo Min
ing eonipaiv: . :lh 15 of his associates.
all lenroFni'atlM' Ainer'.cnii.l. while en
mute frnin hibunhua tn the'.r ininn nt
Co.slhii'inehie. ueic tnliee. .ff tho Irani
41 ndles i'e-t nf fblhuahun City by
hands opei-aiine under thn illroctlnr.
Ocneral Villa, strlnied linked
Hberntely shut ftlid killed.
"Their bodies nte
Kl P.iso.
"It Is stated these men were rr.urfcrcd
bc.i'.l'ie they wero Americans, and wero
villed in nreordnnco with the general
policy publicly announced recently by
Villa. Thin atrocious nut occurred within
a few miles of Chihuahua City. In terri
tor-v announced to bn In control of tho
Carranza forces. The Villa bands loam
Hk about in western Chlliuiilina pobllcly
threaten all Americans with death and
destruction of their property. Following
the occupation of Chihuahua by Obregon's
forces, many Americans returned to
Chihuahua to resume operations, with the
consent of the military
defaeto government.
Urgently bring- the foregoing to the
attention of flencrnl Carrnnza. and re
ipiest Hint he older Immediate and
efficient pursuit, capture nnd punishment
of the perpetratois of the dastardly
crime above mentioned AIo strongly
urge Immediate dlspali h of adc(iuat
forces to the various mining camps
the State of Chihuahua,
"fleiiuest be informed of action taken
what menace Hie Austrian conquest of
Montenegro Ii llkelv to hnld oer the al
lies at Salnnlkl.
Fighting is going nu all aruund Cet
ti ii Jo. thn small town which ncnrly a
year ago ceased to lie the seat of the
Montcnegi in goict nment. Never before
In the long history of the little Monte
negrin kingdom has it been compelled
to bou to a foietgn conqueior, but there
MPins little hope that it can long with
stand the overwhelming strength of C.en
cral Koevess in men and guns.
As In heriila s ease, the entente ptcssi
(liids it Inexplicable wltv Italian assist-1
nine uns nut scul long ngn' to ,nvcen,
which, it is said, could hae been ten
dered Impregnable with a i ninpnratlvely
small number of leluforeeiiients and a
few heay guns. The reduction of Mon
tenein, the press points out. will enable
Austila, not oiilv to cnmiiiand the Adria
tic, hut also Uneaten the Hank of anv
advnni-o from Salnnlkl and prevent any
effective lump by the entente forces
through Albania.
I'm- Italy Ihe pen Aii'trlnu sncrrsn
has a most serious nsptct. The lmig
natron Italian peninsula Is peculiarly
vulnciable tn mi attack frnni tho sea.
Any really gieat Austilati naval base in
be magnificent harbor of Cnttaro would
have been Impossible without l.ovcen,
but under Hip new clrcuinstnnri-M Aus
trian possession of Cnt.'iro is amost .is
great a menace to Italy as the (lerninn
ponqupst of Calais would have been to
(lie.it Hrltnin.
While attention is centered on the de
velopments on the Adilatie coast. It Is
announced from Home that two Italian
transports, the TlrlndM anil Cltta PI
Pnlpimo, last pek struck mines and
sunk. A maiurit of the crews vere
saved.
On the liussian front, the Austrian nffi
cial comniunli.-ation lecords reiipwed
dcsppiate attacks by the Ilusslans on the
ppssarahian frontier, hut Insists that
the nttncki cverywhPiP wpip lepulsed.
he Pptrogr.nl coinmuiilcatlon Is silent
tile subject, hut the Itu-sians usually
ithhold niPiition of Hiplr mnveiiiPnt.i
until they are well on the road to com
letlon.
I'here have hi en no Important (le
elopmcnts on the western front. 'Ihe
blowing up of ii large c.crnian niunl-
ons depot near l.llle Is admitted in
the Herman communication. Accoiding
o one account this was due tn a lirltish
air raid. The Ungllsh press believes that
tile cautious wording of the Herman
communication conceals a disaster of
large proportion".
There is a great spirit of optimism in
oth Hritlsh and French despatches from
the west front, the correspondents ex
pressing the II nn conviction of the al
lied generals that there is no poiuibillty
of any successful ticrman offensive nn; -
where In the west lines.
The earrcipondent of neuter's Tele-
cram company send" Horn llntlsh head
quarters an Interview with nn unnamed
prominent staff officer, who was quoted
us saying
Wo now havp full Information about
thn (iPtman forces facing u. We
knnv- tlu-lr exnet dispositions and
strength. We everywhere outnumber
the Hermans, nnd also outnumber them
In both Held nnd heavy artillery, and
our weapons nre better than theirs. We
can flro five shells to their one, without
depleting our munitions We can take
their first line of trenches whenever we
w Ish.
To say that we have got them beaten
is dangerous rubbish, but the truth is,
we have got them ready for a beating
Vr.idii.iya sessinin of the foity-slxlb
.inuti.il meeting or Hie Vrrinoni Dairy
men's association had a much larger al
tendmt. e than llio'-e of Ihe first day. Tho
morning session was devoted to an In
teresting discourse on Increasing the
profits of the dairy cow. given by (i. M.
Putnam, a live wire on rami subject in
New I tiitnpshli c. the lemalnder of tb"
meeting bclt'C devoted to Ihe annual
meeting of the State Cow Test as-nnia-timi.
Pinfessnr i. I'. V.i-trn of the New
Yuik State college gave interesting ad
dresses at both the afternonn and eve
ning meetings. Cnmnilssluned of Agriculture
Hrlghatn read a paper In the afternoon
and l:oh Seeds, the Chautauqua leiturer,
put those who attended the evening ses
sion In a most humorous mood. The
Woman's Auxiliary held their annual
meeting In Hi" afternoon.
The greater pnrlinn nf tin; inninlng ses
don was given over to Hip Veiliuint State
fnw Test association, previous to which
a talk nf heait Inteiesl was given b.
(!. M Putnam nf Contoncnok, N. H, whn
Ii pr. sldppt nf Hip M-rrimnck ('..tint..
Funnels' asn. latlnn and who told nl' his
uwn peisotial experiences and proms m
keeping a strict caul record ot his herd
of Jersev animals.
I'he treasurer's tepoit showed iprrlpt
or .'I.tvi.s,, with a n.ilaiice on tiaml on
December I, l!l.", of (:.1.M. The sum of
tlii'i." was diawn finni the general fund
and placed In tho piemlum fund to make
the latter fund balance. The president
appointed J. I, Hills nf nurlinqtoii. A. T.
products, and
Ithnra, N. V.
thn Nrw Vol It
HHP. Prof. W
Motion
on
authorities of the
SERVED AS PRESIDENT
OF HANK 21 YEARS
I Jr. Chillies V. Kllot, in letter to New-
York Tillies, pioMises that the I'nited
States make a naval alliance with all the
inleiitc powers for world peace and a de
fensive alliance witli (ileal llrilalli and
France lie holds Hint this country is
not iea.lv for tadlcal milllniy i hnuges.
and 11 nt the Swiss system would be best
for us.
A. II. Mel, end llrKlgim n llend of Flmt
.National liixlltiilliin In Hiilliinil,
m. .miuusiiiii.v, .inn j." At Hie an
mini meotlug nf the Flist National
haul! of this clt), Angus II. .M.-I.cod
resigned as president after bavin
lielil hid on Ice lor twenty-ouo yeai s and
having1 liceii a director for aa years, in
recognition of his long term of servlc
ho was presented by Judge. Walter 1
Miilth with a gold-headed cane, th
gift of tlm directors and tlm working
fincc of the lunik. This bank has
record fur long terms nf olficc, Hi
lllht president, Judge l.ukn P. Poland
having held the olflco for 22 year;
John C. Chilli w.is elected president to
hiiccecil Mr Alcl.cod and C. II, Slovens
jl Wcti'iircsltk-til,
Prof. ! F Wnrie-i of
Who Is cotllo -led with
Stale CnPegp of Agllcul
P. It. I.oi'kwood of the
Massachnset ts Agrleuttiii.il College was
also present at the ineeiing. mid nn be
half of the eastern States agi Icilltural
and Industilal expositions told of Hi
success of lne wire business men of
Springfield, Mass, In bunging in thai
city th,. exposition which Is the largest
thing agriculturally which has ever oc
curred in Hie history of the New Eng
land State. A picture thrown cm the
screen showed the buildings which have
been plnnni il mid which will be erected
in Springfield by October for the exposition.
HUTTP.Il SCOIUNOS.
The butter scot lugs were also an
nounced. John Hnnd of F.asl Montpelier
won the association's gold medal and
(leauiery cup wit, i a score ot Ji71.. The
dairy i up was won Uv u. 11. Hrlstol ot
1 Waltham with n score of ''. Theie were
' samples submitted to be scored. Tho
'highest S(om was 87'. and thn IowpsI
i v as 0. Hip aprge sioie being Oitj
The individual scores follow
CLASS ON 1-1 LAIItV.
' I. H. Pierce, Franklin, d; S. U. Perr.i .
South Pomfrct, Kl; P. II. S.ilil-nu. Iile
j La Motte, ri; P. W. Strong. Ninth Petn
I fiet. f."1-. IJ. II. Ilrlstol. Walthatn, !'7;
j S. II. Wairen. North Poiufret. fit, .1. A.
. Hiirbank, North Pomfrct, id, c. II. I.eou
i aid. Norlh Pomfret. !k"iij: W. 11. Ilar-
lo Reject It Defeated,
to .'!) lAIeiusurc Is Then
Passed by Commons without
Division at Asquith's Request.
SCENES OF ENTHUSIASM
abor Ministers Withdraw Rcs
ijrnalions Hill Will Re Modi
fied on Request So It Cannot
Re Used as Step Towards Gen
eral or Industrial Conscription.
In
Oldest Station Master.
Ilullnnd, Jan, 12. JauiM l.eatny, Sr
probable the oldest station master In
Veimoul, who hy ills toll had acquired
possession of considerable stock in the
Dclawate and Hudson railroad, died nt
Ills homo in West Ilutland late last night
of grip, complicated with pneumonia,
age ,s yea is.
Mr. Leamy wns boin in Ireland In
1SJS and came to this country when II
years of age. ne graduated from the
Troy Conference Academy at Poultnpy
and after teaching school for two years
entered the employ of tho National F.x
press company as a messenger running
betwrpu Hutland and Troy. Un remained
with tho F.xprcss company one year and
then fllteied tlic employ of the old
Itcnsselaer and Saratoga Kallroail com
pany In W! at I'"1'' Haven. ne was
later transferred to Castleton, serving
as station agent in both stations at
that point under tho late Jay Unuld,
who wan then superintendent. n XVe,,t
to West Itullaiid as station agent In
ISi", remaining In Hint position until his
death.
Cilttls of Heorgla and I!piiamlii Tucker
of Tollbridge a committee on lcsolutloni.
UN PF.I1I UNCUS OF NUW HAMPSIIIP.i:
MAN.
Mr Putnam said In p.T-t. I crunn brroie
vou in one v bo H Iimiib tn get a living
orf from mv cuws. In IW we had Hie
aer.ige gnoil nnvs nf town, at least
they weie so consldPtPd, but no record
of their pioductlnii wai kept. , 111 l!K.
Willi Ire Increased enst nf grain and labor
and Increased taxes, I rpalb.pd that my
Inconie was becoming lens yearly and in
lpor, I fninnl a criuple nf hundred dnllais'
nn the wrong side of the lejgei. This'
pnncd to me that there wa.s a leakage j
and It was then I figured up approximate-
v what each one of mv ows was cost
ing each icar. I bniight a tester .mil a
set nf scales and went tn keeping a re.--ord,
wflghhig my milk everv day and
testing twice a month.
Mr. Putnam then, with the aid of a
number of charts, showed the irlatlve
cost of bringing his dairy cows from the
point to where the wore pot paying for
themselves back to a pi ollt-makliig herd.
'I'll" cows who are not paying fur their
board should be weeded out and heifers
raised form the prollt-nriklng cows, using
a sire from n good dam. it Is not
necessary to throw away grade cows and
get pure bred rows, but to see to their
breeding tint they como from good milk
producets. Mr. Putnam put Into his talk
much that was of vital interest to tho
dairymen, as to feeds, cue, cp
row Tl 1ST I NO ASSOCIATION.
The mooting of the Vprinont State
Cow Tot association was presided
over by J II. Candon of Plttsford, the
president.
The president In his address urged
every member of the association to
study his record', weed out the cow'i
which do not pn their hoard and irive '
the ones that are left n little better,
feed and care. In nrder to increase the j
pforiurtloii The test association must
he the means nf bringing to the atten
tion of the dairymen tho fact that
many aro producing milk at a loss As
n means nf cheapening production the
first great factor is better cows and
the second Is raising roughage on the
farms tn feed the cow so she may pro
duce with economy.
T. F. Morln. assistant to Commis
sioner of Agriculture Hrlghani, and
who is In charge of the test associa
tion's work gave a resume nf the woik
which Is being carried on, and advised
the farmers to keep up their records;
not for one yenr and then, aftnr weed
ing out tho poor cows found, drop
them, but keep them longer and keep
the standard up to Its highest notch,
liana Jones of Middlehnry also spoko
rlngton. West Ilarlfonl, !X1; A. O. nnd
II. W. Jnnes. .Sudbury. p. A. K'nee-
i land, Wnilstleld, '.C; A. II. Sh.irhurne,
North Pninfrct, !C; T. II. f.mdnn. Pltts
1 ford, r.V. J. p. Candnn. Plttsford. !'.",
.l P. Candnn, Plltsfnrd. M .1. II. Cloud,
Fninpanonstic. I.. It. Muise, Nnr-
vlch, Ki: C. II fnhh, Westfnnl, Carl
C. Julitisnti, Pnmfret. M' II. .1. Lhle,
Woodstock. !l: It. i:. Hurnett, Hethel,
PI; H. H. Perry A: Snn. Ira, 0'.; Itow
l.ind T. Unbinnn. I-'errlsburg. OMj; 17. O.
I'lumiiier. Crnlnn, !; 11. 17. Crow, Wind
sor, r2. II. II. Cnrpctilrr. C.ibot. '.'';
i. W. Lennaid, Uinndon, 01: 1'icd Par
ker. Plttsford. !M: U. C. Flint. Hr.iin
tiee, M: C. J. Nrtson Sh.iekfurd, 17nst
p.yrg.-iie. 17. ii Willaid. North llart
l.ind. r..'.'r: fharles (late . Sons', Nnrl h
Ilaitland. PI: C.cnfge Olbhie. Olntnii, M,
T. W. Pcrr.v. llnnshuig Fall". Id: A. W.
Pel-ley. HI. hfnnl, !": ti. L. Nichols.
Unosburg Falls. P2. Lriicst U. Pcrley,
Klrlifnrd, ''I: Sent! Farm. Hratlloborn,
?J; Charles A. Crppil. Plttsford, 93: J. H.
Carrigan, Pitt.sfnrd, ft, Mrs. Iturpll
'Pysnn, Hrattleboro, M, C. S. ilarris,
I'errlsburg, !'.': M. L. Ilubbcll, Unosburg
Falls. Ki; S. W. Jewett . Son, Mld
dlebury, tf,, P. S. lills-i. .Mldillpbui'y, ''.;
U. W. Hall. North Pnwnal. !'.".; Fill
morn Fntins, Pennington, 01; II. P.
Ovitt, Unosburg Palls,
class two cri:amui:v.
U. A. Hist, Wilmington, 02; Ii. C. Jen
nings, Uast llardwlck, Mi .: C. C. Fuller,
Jonesvllle, Jl: Oeorgo U, pnuglass, ("am
lirldge, M: A. I.. Pnw, West llartfnid,
!'".; II. S. Urldges. C.nentry, M; II W
llllette, Montpellpr, t'2i: S. L. Hariis.
Proctor. 01: C. W. Silley, Marshtlpld,
f.T; 17. .1. Talbot, ltarte. !i.".i2: Palmer
1 Hrns., New Haven. 0). II. W. Helden,
I Waltsflpld. '.'.; Jnlm Ilnnd, Uast Mont,
i peller, t'T " j . L. P. Tiirnbnll. Orleans. 01
, F. U. Ila ward, West l'alrlee, M. W. P
1 Stnne, Staffnril, 0.". Henrge V. Huberts
U.-s.p. Cenler, !". W. 11. Wright. W.uts-
lleld, 02. o. U. Colbiirn. Washington. or
U. C. Jiollis, Nortli MnntpellPi-, fl: II. 1"
McNamar.i. Orleans, 03; Uiigcno Heau-
dette, Vergennes. 02: J. H. Morse, Uast
Haniet. 0.1. C. U. Mclntyre. Panby, 01:
H. F. Hebert, Dauby, r; M. F. Dona
hue. Ussex Junction, W; 11. L. Lyster,
White Hlver Junction, P: H- P. H"o
Sons. Woodstock. OH; H. J. Fuller,
! Wllllstoii, 01; W. C. Porter, Sharon, 0,1
I J. F, Ponaliue, Vergennes, 02; W. '
1 lull. South Londonderry, Pi: N. 1.
Wright. Hlverslde. ?;); John U. Ansboro,
Derby, 0.1, J. H. Lucia, Jr., Hrlstol, 93
C. T. .Metcalf. Irasburg, 91: F. U. I-'ow-
Icr, South novation. : S, C. Lltchlleld
Mldillebur.v, Ki. Sliclhiirno Creamery
Shelhurne. 0"i. Hoy Montgoniery, St
Juhiisbury, ;d.
A brief abstract of Commissioner
of the trials of a tester, speaking after I jirlgliam's paper follows.
Iluerta Indicted.
Sau Antonio, Texas, Jan
Victoilano llticrln, his fmiuei
lug agent, Joseph II, Hatiici.
others were Indicted line to-ilay by
federal grand J'h'y for con8p UC.
tvlulutu tho jneutialllyj luwa.
12 -Hen.
leu
a
to
live years' experience.
Tho meeting of the cow test associa
tion was closed with the election of
officers as follows: President, J. H.
Candon of Plttsford; vice-president.
Italph Denio of Hristol, secretary and
treasurer. 17. If. Jones of Waitsfleld.
TUU WOMAN'S AUXILIAHV.
Tho business meeting of tho Wom
an's Auxiliary wns held yesterday af
ternoon at the Van Ness House and of
ficers for the year ensuing were elected
as follows- President, Mrs, Luell.i Hick
ford of Hraiifnrd. vice-president. Mrs.
1 1. k. Hi milts of St. Albans, secretary
treasurer, Mrs. II. N Farnliaiu of Mont
pelier A new constitution and by
laws weie submitted and adopted. Tho
women of tills city aro cordially In
vited to meet witli the auxiliary at the
Van Ness Hoilso at two o'clock this
afternoon to hear an address by Jon
Mltclml Chappel on "Tho Farmer's
Wife." Mi'- Cliappel Is editor of Hip
Natlonnl Magazine, and Ills address Is
expected to be of exceptional Interest.
AFTUHNOON SKSSION OF DA I HV.M17N.
Vesteiday nflcinootl showed Hie larg
est altendauci' of any of llin sessions up
HALF A C17NTUR V OF VUH.MONT
PAIUVINH.
The history of Vermont d ilrlug for
a period of Hi ears has been written
I Into tlii" reports of the Vermont Pairy-
1 men's association. In the almost half
' centurv many changes, some almost
rovolutlonar in character, have taken
nlace Among: the most important of
1 these changes bus been tho wider sc
! aratlon of producer from consumer and
1 the removal from the farm to the far
I torv of thoso operations which aro
concerned with the Until preparation of
, ilairy products for market, whether
i the form be milk, cream, butter or
I cheese. Forty-six years ago factories
fur tho manufacturo of dairy products
wero almost unheard of. To-day w
have in tills Stato 153 butter manufac
taring' plants, 2i clieeso factories, tw
condcnsarles and f." milk shipping sta
lions. Many advantages have followed
Ibis change .and many morn are possi
ble. Tho great disadvantage has been
the loss on the dairyman's part of the
pride of pro. Im Ing a Hun Mulshed pi. Ki
ll, t The I line has come when Ver
mont farmers should seriously reason
themselves If they can afford,
London, Jan 12.- Amid scenei of up
turn Ions enthusiasm the House (I
Commons at 11 o clock to-night defeat
ed a motion tn reject the mllltarv pr
Ice bill by a Vote of 131 to :io. ImtiH -dlately
afterward the House accede
to the premier's request hy passing- tb
second leading of tho hill withor.l
division.
Tho votn wns chiefly intetestitig o'l
account of the changed attitude !
many of the in." members who op
posed it on the Hist reading.
'I'he debate was dosed h.v Atthur Hri.
ilelsni. president f thf board nt ed
lion, who snld it was a gieat mi My fact r
to lit in that because of definite n-uran (
given his friends and himself M tl
premier, ill the name of th whole r.ihlnc
ho was ahl" to letnaln for the preset
In the coalition mlnlstiy This f.i ' volt'
be regarded at bom and abroad as a
svmbol of the nation's unltv. II .lost
w lib the statement :
"I hive the authorltv nf Uail K.tehtur
nnd the general staff that we lerpilre a'
mice not nnly the unman led nieii eniollr
under Hie Deibv scheme, not onlv tl
married men who are waiting tn lv eallci
hut also the whole available part of th
Cmnii men with w hum this mcisui
deals."
The opposition in the limine of Com
mons to the conscription bill crumble
to-night to n few conscientious objec
tors. A fortnight acn tho anti-com-pulsinnistit
Plalmcd 200 votPS. but ne
Hip first rending Hicv weie able t
muster only 10,"i, nf whom moro than
one-half wero Irish nationalists.
When It came to tho second readlnrc
f tin. hill to-night. tho Irish na
tionalists had withdrawn from the op
position. Pieniler AsqulHi unit placated
innjori t j of tlm labor members, who
i.nl voted "No" on Ihe llrst readme,
Hid onlv a comparative hanrtrtl re
mained irreconcilable.
The lesult appears In have bpen dti
artlv to pvidciippfi that I lie cniintr
ivnrs tho mcasuie and partlv tn Mr.
sqiiiths often dlsplacd facillly at
conciliation.
I'he premier held a cnufeicn'-e, with tri
evecutlvo committee of tlic labor part
and labor members of the House of Com
mons this afternoon at which ho indued
the three labor nienibcis of the mlnlstr-'
In wilhdiuw their resignations tem
porarily, and apparently made a stron
Impression on the members of the execu-
ttve t ninnilt tee.
The labor men asked for asurnncei
that Hie hill should not be iim-i! as a Rti
towards general conscription or ittilustrl i
(inscription, Mr. As Ulth gave tl
promise that the bill would be nmillllr I
safeguard It from any suspicion tht't
It could he used for suet purposes. Afti r
an appeal for labors support he withdrew
to permit the representatives to discuss
their policy.
Tic nationalist members, after votlnt
icainst tho bill on the Hist reading, mr.
take the attitude that It does not i oncet i
th. m, although they are opposed in com
pulsion on piliiciple since it applies onl
the larger Island John PIHon, w- i
was Its strongest opponent among th
nationalists, agreed to the party's dclslc i
although he said he would havn foilgl t
the bill if a majority of the liberals nn i
l.iborites bad stood nitalnst it
The weakening of the opposition to
limited conscription in the House ot
Commons docs not necessarily Indlcai
change of front hy organised latx
throughout tho country. The labor cot
gress of last week polled a large ma
jority against the government's plan .
although the critics claim that It dl 1
not ic present tho mass of tho member
ship of the unions. Tho Miners' Fedar-
atlon, which was not represented in
that congress, will hold a conventic i
next week, and all the local miners' a
soclatioiw which have Instructed deli
gates thus far have Instructed t'u l
against the hill
The South Wales miners' .onferppi''
at Cardiff to-d.iy de. Ided by a vote i'
211 to r.'i to ptotest against the bill am
further, to ask the national exe Itlve
lo poll a general ballot on the "dow i
tools" polfov unless the bill w It'
drawn.
to tho picMcut lime Thete weto iwoiwlth themselves it tuny can an urn. as
speakers, Coiumlsslonci' of Agi icullure I a mutter If policy entirely upatl from
U, S, Hrlghani of St. Albnus, who spoktil - -
on tho Improvement ot Vermont tlalryj tc.nitliiiiril mi inge fmirj.
HA NIC MUUTIN.;
Ilutland. Jan. 12. At the Kutlauil Count"
National bank Mayor P., L. Slatford an 1
C. S. Cole, cashier ot the hank, weie mad'
directors to fill vacancies caused b"
tho deatli of Ulam C. Lewis and th
decision of Itedfleld Proctor of Procto
not to servo because of other busines.
At the Clement National Hank llenr
ii. Smith of New York was elected a
director, tho board being increased
from eight to nine.
Henry F. Field was ic-elected presi
dent of tho County hank, K. O, Ollson
nf the KlllliiKton National bank, l-7-
(lov. Mead of t lie Haxtor National bank
and Oeorge T. Chaffee of tho HittlatK'
Trust company. The Clement hank
board of directors did not organize.
London special says most iniportan'
Hritlsh llnamlal operation of the war vvil
probably bo necessary in next few month"
when a big public loan will lesuo whicl
unless the situation Improves will have
to bo JU o Dcr cent.
