THE HERALD.
Devoted to the Upbulldlng of the West Side of the River. "A very live and creditable weekly newspaper."-MANUFACTURERS' RECORD.
NEW ORLEANS LOUISIANA, THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 1916.
GREATEST STORE SOUTH
housands of Beautiful
Garments Sacrificed
1500 Silk and Wool Dresses, 9.75
LediN' and Missy-e' "' ," t:;I k a~: l S "ero 'omtubination Dresses;
lsav and bla k \ .r·r i t di- ttin ive niio0 ,ls: regular
_ Si.0, offered in "' i':a ,1' . Stalc' at this heavy reduction.
Tailored Suits Reduced to 15.00
an' aid Mie-' T r -mntdc' Suits. materials of poplin.
dltI, velveteen and .,1 rt. -r;a i lining. isomie braid andi fur
a Ire and salý,,r pl1. 'e'd -kirtn; regular values up to
-ýdced for the I(larati, e Sale.
Entire Stock of Furs, 2 Price
Ssatire stock of h!1. - lme Furs. consisting of Dyed Blue
OuerPox, Ermine. I!.c k Lynx. Black Fox. Natural Mink, lied
-lIIa and Coneys. iN -,t- or single pieces; your unrestricted
-dall Furs in 'o',k !'ri"e range from $'2.9S to $125.o1,
-Fh and Cloth Coats, 25 per cent off
1Ur' and Misse" Pl'lo-h. Broadcloth and Fancy Mixed Wool
Fur trimmed, made in the new as models. A very com
atU nt of sizes: best satin and peau de cygne linings;
pica $20.00 to $45."1,: your unrestricted choice of the
-ik at 25 per cent less rihan former marked prices.
(4- re P'. Platt. IR. J. Williams. P. T.
M -;ivney-. I. M. Sweeney. Daniel \\Vil
ONALS e.1yr. and Mrs. Henry Munsterman. of
& OTHERWISE Seguin street, acre week-end visitors
to Buras. the guests oftheir son and
daughter-in-law. Mr. and Mrs. George
.Munsterman.
M ting of the Dock Misses Rita Santos and Dorothy
and Pacific Railroad (Mott hale returned to St. Mary's of
Sadlditional track at the Pine t'onvent. ('hattawa, Miss.. to
mggling into .\liers, resnme their studies, after spending
S baaks. The matter the ('hristmas holidays with their par
the engineer for thu ents.
lt board. Mrs. (('apt.) ('has. Mott. mother
11 years old, of .. and family have returned to .\bita to
-- s run down and ren- take up their residence in their new
by an automobile Ibungalow
by S. . Bo-!s-r Tt-- funeral of Patrick Broi.an, an
near Delaronde, told resident of Algiers, was held from
n. The boy, his residence in Vallette street Mon
was clinging to a day afternoon, being strictly private.
he released him- He was a native of Ireland and is sutr
by the auto, which ived by a daughter, Sarah Brohan.
ima. Deputy City The Tuesday Afternoon Five Hun
a and Supernu- dred Club were entertained this week
sassengerger were by Miss Katherine Clarke. The suc
time. The boy was cessful players were Mrs. H. T. Ma
n at his home. lone. Mrs. E. J. Mothe and Mrs. G.
aInury. 1IBourgeois. The consolation fell to
No. 579. Woodmedn the lot of Mrs. Chas. Zatarain. The
ed officers at a next meeting of the club will be held
light at Renecky's at the home of Mrs. H. A. Tansey.
opeanng at 7:3' Orange Camp No. 8, Woodmen of
.Piershments were the World of Algiers, held a regular
meeting Tuesday night at Pythian
No. 25, I. O. O. P., Hall. at which officers were installed
at IRnecky's Hall and other interesting business trans
to be Inter- acted.
bl lbe installed and Mr. and Mrs. Leonard F. Gisch
Refresh- have the sympathy of their many
_,. All members friends in the loss of their infant
t. son, who died Sunday night.
Club will en- .Mrs. G;aston Moreau and children
roimds at a recep- are guests of Misses Ida and Laura
om Friday. Janu- Davis.
bwlag committee Mr. Archie Murphy, one of our well
SW. J. Judge. known and energetic young men.
Impression of Your Town by
Home Newspaper
'TOUR HOME NEWSPAPER!
is power," the bard tells us. No one can
a USEFUL CITIZEN and an INFLU
of a community without first familiarizing
things that are going on about town. To be a
- uint KNOW THINGS.
N8 ARE FAMILIAR WITH THE DETAILS OF
COUNTY GOVERNMENT. THEY ARE AWARE I
UPPORTS BEING MADE BY THE BOARD OF
. NEW ENTERPRISES, TO INDUCE FOREIGN
EST IN THE CITY AND TO START SMALL
PLANTS-THOSE THAT EMPLOY SKILLED
WAGES AND BRING USEFUL CITIZENS TO
8 must be aware of the erection of new t
know of all real estate transactions-the
.i the price. They must be able to show the
Sreal estate in his home town. To be a useful r
- part in all efforts to create a GOOD IM
town in the outside world. One must lend a
ats which will better the town from an a
and educational standpoint,
UI WAY TO GAIN THE NECESSARY INFOR
A USEFUL CITIZEN. THAF IS BY READ- '
IT 18 THE DUTY OF EACH NEWSPAPER
- ETTERMENT OF THE COMMUNITY AS A
IS LARGELY PERFORMED BY THE DIS
L INFORMATION TO THE CITIZENS.
one learns of new enterprises, of capital e
of the arrival of new citizens, of the en
t corporation, of improvements made by ct
bythe county authorities and of all things c,
aBETTER PLACE TO LIVE IN.
.D TO BE WITHOUT THE HOME
BUT A FEW CENTS A WEEK?
NAVAL STATION NOTES.
The- U. S. S. Kearsar.ge arri,. cd on
the I,,th and after coaling and loeadino
stores left for -outhern iwaters toila.
This ve4ss-el carrite the marine, doeta II
titenit .4 hit ii wa- formerly at t,;..
New Orleans station.
'lThe I'. S S. Petrel. with the "i i:
I ncas as convoy,. xill leave F'rida5 for
(Cuba. the t' neas returning to Ne'\\
Orleans for tiurther duty at the Na:\al
Stat ion.
()Owing to the hilgh ater in the
ri\ver, work ill connet tion with the
thlating of the Santot, A.\aral has
been stolped. It is the. present in
tenttion of the owners to proceed t it::
the work 44 hen the river drops
enough to allow the construction of
the cofeter dani to be complleted.
The steanlmship ('arnargo, whlich was
to, ha \t been docked for about two
dal s the latter part of this week for
the purpose of repairint under water
parts around thlie rudder and propeller.
cannot be docked on account of bein'g
of British registry.
.\bout one-hundred and twenty-five
marines, under the commnand of ('ap
tain (utts will stay at New Orleans
when the Kearsarge leaves.
The Labor Board is in session mark
ing the papers of the .January exami
nation for positions at the Natal Sta
tion.
CHRISTMAS AT BARATARIA
SCHOOL.
The ('hristmas exercises at Bara
taria School No. " were held Thurs
day under the direction of Miss Mc
Neilly., the capable teacher. The pro
grani was creditably rendered.
has taken a position as dispenser of
liquid refreshments with .Jim Tallon.
TiI- corner Seguin and Morgan streets.
1Mrs. Van Loon and her daughters.
Mrs. Esther (;astel and Miss Isabel
of Van Loon, have removed to the city.
ors
taking up their domicile at No. 2327
nd Berlin street.
re Little Margaret Ilynmel has been ill
at her home for about a week. Ihr.
SPollock, who has been attending the
little one, says that she is improving.
to .r. and Mrs. Windsor, 1'. S. N.. will
take up their residence at the na\.y
,ar yard some time this week.
Sts. John Social Clulb held its re'
her ular bi-monthly meeting Thursday,
to January 6th. Much business of impor
tanice was transacted. several new
members taken in and a number of
an new applications recei,ved. The mem
om bership of the club is growing rapidly.
Ott- having almost doubled in the past two
Ite. months. It was decided to give the
r- first moonlight excursion on the Sid
ney under the auspices of this Club on
un- Saturday. February 19th, and a com
mek mittee was appointed to take charge
uc- of the affair, with a view to its suc
la- cess being as great as that of previous
G. entertainments given by S. J. S. C.
to Miss Juanita McNeely has returned
'he to Barataria, after spending a while
eld with her parents.
Miss Stella Joeckel entertained her
of aunt. Miss M. Joeckel, of Memphis.
lar during the holidays.
lan The many friends of Mrs. John
led Porzler will be glad to learn that she
us- has recovered, after a two weeks' ill
ness.
ch Olney Platt left for Convent, La.,
fy to become a student of Jefferson Col
mt lege.
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Patterson. of
en 402 Slidell avenue, left Monday for 1
ra Havelock, Nebraska. where they will
make their home. Mrs. Patterson was
Il- formerly Miss lIstelle Burgau.
n. The many friends of Mrs. J. R. Al
len will be pleased to learn that she(
is Improving after an attack of la I
grippe.
Mr. and .Mrs. W. B. Perkins, of 506
Belleville street, have the sympathyt
of their many friends in the loss of c
their baby girl. c
An enjoyable evening was spent a
New Year's Eve at the home of Miss s
Sydney Olroyd. Dainty refreshments s
were served and an abundance of fire- I
works was on hand. Vocal solos were v
rendered by Misses Ruth V'allette and c
Esther Hebert and dancing was in- t
dulged in until the bells rang out the I
Old Year. Those present were: I
Misses Esther Hebert. R. Vallette, .\i. c
Duke. A. D. Sadler, A. Langford and S. r
Olroyd; Masters G(. Thorning, D. g
Thorning. C. Jordan, C. Brown, \W. I
Niklaus and S. Neyland.
Mrs. Tracy Lilly is improving, after o
being ill for the past week. v
Master Earle Joret left for his c
home in Lafayette, after spending the t
holidays with his aunt, Mrs. Jules Jud- F
lin.
Mr. and Mrs. Horace Nelson, of I
Raceland. were guests of .Mrs. L. 0
Tufts. d
Mrs. Geo. Cunningham and children L
are guests of Mrs. Emile Hotard, of a
ilelleville street. k
Mrs. Mary Taormina is visiting her C
mother, Mrs. S. Amedea, of Valletter
street.
The larger girls and boys of the Al-I
giers Playground are planning a boatF
ride on next Saturday night on the B
steamer Sidney. They are to be chap- 5
eroned by Miss E. Abbott, supervisor. V
Mrs. Chas. Abbott entertained at aC
card party Tuesday night. The suc- 1
cessful players were Jos. Worley and V
Mrs. W. Hebert. F
A Newcomb ball game will be a
played between local teams at Algiers t
Playgroend next Suaday. I'
'II hen the Ihet can he hlad
atll nIlo higher price than i% often
charged I'or the inferior, ih"t l
h*hilull iu ri-k the iihile su
Il'er'tructure of the 'aunill
health by furnishing 15)1r f(mal.
I1' ou are amlonlg the Ilinority
1r [to 41o not knowi that our
.talllard ha% ever Iwen, is, and
(p al~anA mtill te
Purity
Quality
Service
'Ti, iour own fault
r
A. M. & J. SOLARI,
LIMITED
Main House, 201 Royal St.
Phone Main 2590
THE ' .ti.lMILv ROt'ERS
COUPLE ARRESTED; WILL BE DE
PORTED.
('Charles Goyena. alias Carlos ('ol
lians, and his wife. Martha. are being
held at the immigration Station. to Ie
deported upon orders from immigra
tion headquarters at Washington.
The couple arrived in New Orleans'
Monday afternoon fromn Porto Blar
rios. Guatemala. from which port they
embarked after a trip from Guatemala
'City. On the boat they were known
as Mr. and Mrs. I'ollians, and shortly
after they had disembarked a mes-1
sage was received from W\ashingtoni
I instructing that they he held and de
ported. The case was turned over to
Inspector Vincent, who asked the ,s-l
sistance of the p1olice. I)Detective Obitz
was assigned to work with the inspe <
tor. and the pair trae-d the couple
through the delivery .1 their trunks
to the De Solo lotel, wihere they were
re-"istered under the name of Goyena.
At police headquarters the couple
declined to discuss their arrest.
though Goyena admitted that he had
trtbuble ii Guatemala City New Year's
night. He is understood to have been
a member of the bodyguard of Presi
dent Estrada ('abrera of Guatemala.
The couple was later transferred to
the Immigration Station.
Captain John Mayo. who is in
charge of the Immigration Station.
stated that he had no information as
to the charges against the couple. "My
orders came from Washington and
were simply to hold and deport them,"
said he. "I want to compliment the
officers cn their good work and to
thank the police for their assistance."
FATHER LARKIN ENTERTAINS
CHOIR.
On Thursday night-the twelfth
night after Christmas. which is known
as Little Christmas-Very Rev. T. J.
Larkin entertained the members of
the choir of the Church of the Holy
Name of Mary at an informal supper
at the presbytery, at which he took
occasion to thank the choir, net only I
for the beautiful music rendered on
Christmas, but for their services dur
ing the year. and in a special manner
thanked Prof. Fred Herbert and his
daughter. Miss Georgina Herbert, for'
their hard work for the success of the
choir. Hlie also advised the members
of the choir that they should be more
attentive at rehearsals, and they
should remember that, with a leader
such as Miss Georgina Herbert, who
is so proficient in the art. that they
were receiving an education which
could not be obtained anywhere in
the city without great expense. Prof.
Herbert then thanked Father Larkin 0
in behalf of the choir for his many
compliments and for the sumptuous!
repast then being enjoyed. Miss Geor
gina also thanked the choir for their
loyalty to her father and herself and '
impressed them with the importance r
of attending the rehearsals during the r
year. Father Larkin cut the kine: a
cake and Mr. William Donner was for- r
tunate in being king. as was Miss M. c
Rousseau in being queen. .After theit
supper was over His .Majesty, with his t
lovely queen, led the way to the home
of the Knights of Columbus. where
dancing was indulged in. Miss Ruby
L. Walsh 'recited the "Alabaster Gate,"
and by special request of Father Lar
kin she recited "Curfew." Mrs. Frank
Galvin, who was the guest of honor..
rendered a few vocal selections, all cft
which were very much enjoyed. The ih
following were present: Mesdames a:
Frank Galvin, Jos. Richards and G. o
Krider; Misses Georgina Herbert, M. !n
Rousseau, Malvina Dwyer. Ida Kevlin, b
W. Lange, A. Farbras, Clara Balz, h
Clotilde Mechana, May Barrose, L. t
Hooke, Hilda Nichollas and Ruby L. e
Walsh; Messrs. Earl Vallette, John J. tf
Fox, William Donner, Thomas A. Fox b
and Prof. Fred Herbert. The music of as
the Chrlstmaa mass will be repeated a
at 10:30 o'clock mas 8unday. 14
- FOURTH PRECINCT DEMOCRATIC
CLUB.
.\, tin P'r,.sid,:,t .Itl \ :ar: '
lr'lut .'st,, I that th, - ,l ' t i.lunh,
'tisrnP-.s !¼ o ti ll- rt.. : ~h.iri: ,::ti uii 1
tier. ant :ii corlL ;lian e 11 i'l hi-. ri
ql11'st the tfolio :n- oftli. .r- r ,ere i, t
ed by aclamatio n
firank tE. lhnuitu n..L lr. r tl ri, k Jir , rt.
.Jailts i. ( rounbltt-. Eld arl J. turr-:..
e 'ristophii r Hterbtr rt. .l tin Itl an. \\il
liant Lauian., I harle. hItl.! t..tt, r.
John K. llerbert. .Jos. \V. L.0t.hlot .
Frank (tastroigiovauni, ti'arile, 1) Mar
tin. Johin 1'. Nolan. I eor e N.l-en. WV.
11. \Vard. Robert I. Sichwani r. t ha..
t). Itoolire. Sr.. li Thi . lIt'ihardson.
Thos. t. liuchhol.. Sr . vii e ,resi
dent- s; Walterr It. I .ura . :retar :
¼John IHenry Vezien, treasurr; Walt. r
lilt/ell, grand marshal. and Jame.
turran, ser.eal t-at-arlnls.
Plrestident Biarrett introduceid Mir.
James tO'Connor, of the Fifth W\art
a ho made a very interesting and in
-tructise speech. li- prais.e for thei
")Democratic party and its leader, lion
arable Martin lenrnian, was the .tub
ject of miuch applause by all present.
The club ohiered .r. O'Connor a ris
ing vote of thanks for cinming over to
the Umeeting, as a ell as to show their
appreciation for thi many counpliuieu
tary remarks to the Demlocratic party
and its supporters.
Ir. C'harles lienricks was the next
speaker introduced. tie gave a brief
but interesting talk. dtenouncing prohli
bition in any shape, manner or form.
and pledging his support to any and
all questions for the good and wel
fare of the labor organizations.
SThe following resolution was read
tby, Mr. Hlenry Acker and adopted by
the club:
l "e it restited. That tihe DIemonorat
ic C(lub of hte Fourth Pre,-inr.t. Fif
teenth Ward. does hereby endorse thle
candidacy of llor. Ruffin i;. Pleasant
for governor, lion. WV. T. Christy for
state senator of tihe seventh senatorial
idistrict. lhon. John Fitzpatrick for
state tax ctollector of the l'arish of
O)rleans. lion. Andrew It. Wilson for
judge of the Juven;ile ('Court. and does
hereby Iledge th. ear'r s- and hearty
support of its niemrtrership to insure
the overwhelming \ictory of these
candidates at the primary election
which shall be held Tuesday. .January
.A committee of five. 'onsisting of
the following gentlemen. George W'.
Foster. John Schroder. D)ave Mur
tagh, John A. Hlerbert and Foster 01
royd, was appointed by the president
for the purpose of conferring with the
presidents of the several precinct
clubs. Fifteenth Ward. on matters per
taining to parade and general mass
meeting.
President Barrett spoke in regard :o
Heon. Martin Behrman. and of his kind
ness shown and many favors extend
ed to the people of Algiers. through
him, and requested that his many
friends and members of the club en
deavor to roll up a big majority in fa
vor of the candidates he is endorsing
in the primary election, in order to
show their gratitude and appreciation.
After thanking all present for at
tending the meeting and inviting them
to participate in the parade and mass
meeting to be held on Saturday, Jan
uary 22nd, meeting'was adjourned,
and all present retired to the gallery,
where luncheon was served midst the
tuneful strain of Saunfleld's Orches
tra.
1'. R. DI'RAND, Secretary.
PLANS FOR ROAD COMPLETED.
City Engineer Payne stated Thurs
day that plans and specifications for
the new gravel road through Mctlor
oghville to connect the road in Brook
lyn pasture with verret street..\ Algiers.
had been completed and that bids for
the material would shortly Ie asked.
Approximately 4ro0 yards of gravel
will be necessary to do the work. The
route will be the same as that of the
road now generally used. Mr. t'ayne
also said that he is satisfied with tihe
progress that is being made by the
contractors on the water works sys
tem, more favorable weather condi
tions helping them now.
THIEVES ROB ST. ANTHONY'S
CHURCH.
Thieves were busy in McDonogh
ville last week. They visited St. An
tpony's Catholic Church. where they
broke open the tabernacle, presum
ably in search of valuable chalices or
other articles, but they were foiled as
none were to be found. They also
broke into the contribution boxes.
but it is believed nothing was found
there, as the receptacles had been
emptied of their contents shortly be
fore. Mrs. Jolly, who tends the church,
believes that the thieves hid them
selves in the confessional as she made
a thorough search of the edifice beforp
locking it for the night.
No. 36.
Fashion's Decree Calls For
White Gloves
2-4 la-p ll ailt, !.aauih.kia. !, .... I..
2-0-'a10 lhite hid, r
II S- ntton Lº'ngh w it· l W Ihile I ln kin
i' I ..... .... .. ..... .
I *2-Ihltt, n I.: 1 . - I;t- . . 2.:.
I14,Itutain ltna 1 h I at knI, aa 1, :a oi
2 l-Huatt ol Il vlgth Ia , 6o.
Sdtl'er taken ia l 4.I ntll 4'b a in. a •. t I 4. . la.I. e IIlan lker
chief and ILinige'rie %Hai j'. %aahi g.
Novelty Suggestions for Evening
Jewelry, Combs and Fans
The "Princess Pat" Coiffure
()rnrtlin.nt is the Metr)politan N ,v. It. i:n,hl f'auou)li. . 1 1i iCU anor
i'aint.r. ahowV for the fir't tina- by HIo.lIeIIA
NilIerite. Ithinae.tme,'.- ,:noiru-ted i epiia o: a a h lliamloaund
Thling' ................ 7. to 1 9.,14)
('hoire Ornailtent inll li price,. a;r thei ('I raent linged ' olmnils
and Hair Pin.; nlade in a new aay. Silverite . lthinestoner EIntrud.
at..... .............................................4 to 1.7
O thers. to ........ ....................................:.0
Collection of ~halite nllll Itlark (;ainze l'ans; painted and span
gled. carved bohone tik... ........................... .. 4, 2..-0
Others in real I.ace to ..................................412.35
D. H.Holmes co.
P./". ,w Yal. e LIMITED at .bi,..d
Berlin, London and Ilo..... April 2. 1J.
Grasp This Great Opportunity Now
. II I . a t II
Sluccessor uo Cale 912 914
UL i i rCANAL
Successors to C.ble Piano Co. STREET
YEAItLY TOKENS.
We have received this week from
the American Brewing Co. a set of
beautiful ash trays which were sent
over by MIr. Frank Lobrano, who is
so favorably known on this side of
the river. Mr. Lobrano also sent with
his compliments to the Herald two
incandescent lamp shades being very
attractive and of a unique design
along the lines of the old English
lamps formerly seen in the streets of
London.
We extend the compliments of the
season to Mr. Lobrano and also the
American Brewing Co.
NEW ('ALEN)DAR.
From the Commercial Germania
Trust and Sayings Bank we received
a beautiful 1916 calendar. A hand
some baby is the picture on same.
MR. YOUNG MARRIED MAN:
Safety est. Investlgate the benmlta ye,
can derive trem umemberhip ai the
WORKIIIMEI'S UION AllD IENEVOLEIT
ASSOCIATIOI
Ask say member or alddr
W. . AWDRY, nRe. So~..
hf nahira Avee. ALGOInaR.
=o ..
Brush Up
Hair, Teeth and Clothes
We have the large t assortment of GOOD
Brushes in the :itv
Hair Brush'from - 10c to 2.00
Tooth Brush from . - 5c to 35c
Clothes Brush from 10c to 2.00
This is the Season to BRUSH UP. It puts
the blood in good circulation
TE)1 J UPP, Dru"ist
Bermudk, EC ik C Verret5 th.
Dauphine
Slate Co.
Slate Roofers
and Dealers...
Office end Yrd
627 Deaphine St.
Branch Yoard
717 Opedoeeae Avenu
PHONE H 731 PHONE A 505 L
We are now in a position to
deliver slates of four squares or
more to any point in Algiers at
the following prices:
10x12-8x14, $7.15 per square.
10x14-12x14- 8x16-11x22,
$7.40 per square.
10xl6-12x16-12x18,
per square. $7.65.
English Tiles, 25c per piece.
American Tiles, 18c per
piece.
