statu Historical Society
Taney County Republican
Four Pages.
FORSYTH, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, JANUARY 13. 1916.
Vol. 21. . No. y.
' Cheap Goods VS. Cheap Money
Ever since the Free-Trade prtv cam j
into power in 1913 there has been no
end of talk about fxterding cur com
merce with South America and the
Orient. The high Tariff, it was claim
ed, had always been an obstacle to the
growth of this commerce; but when
the Underwood Tariff law went into
effect predictions were made that our
export trade with those countries
would soon show a wonderlul increase.
Later on, however, it was explained
that something more was needed.
Tariffs, we are now told, play a
small part in the matter. Foreign
trade is more largely a question of
finance. We must be able to grant
longer credits to would-be buyers be
fore we can hope to compete with Eng
land and Germany for this trade. As
one authority says: "It has loDg been
axiomatic of trade with South America
that South America would buy where
she could borrow."
Now we are also told that the Cur
rency law was expressly designed to
overcome this difficulty by increasing
the lending powers of our books, and
Secretaries McAdoo, Redfield and Dr.
Pratt, of the Bureau of Foreign Com
merce, are busily engaged on a scheme
by which credits will be extended to
exporting merchants so that they can
in turn grant longer credits to South
American buyers than they could ob
tain from the exporting merchants of
other countries. This policy, it is
as was also the case with us, this great
progress was attained during a period
when London was the world's fioan
ciil center, and money was more plen
tiful and cheaper in England than in
Germany.
These two instances sufflcietly prove
that the ability to ' give longer credits
is not determining factor in promoting
the growth of foreign commerce, it
is not the "axiomatic" even in regard
to South American trade. ,
The only case where the power to
give longer credits really counts for
anything is where competition is close
where the rival products are pretty
near equal in q'lility and price. But
where there is much difference in
these respects the power to grant long
er credits counts for little. Take, for
example the competition now threaten
ing us from China. In his very inter
esting article in The American Econo
mist (October 22) Hon. R. W. Austin
presents a graphic picture of what is in
store for American labor. In the cot
ton, iron and steel mills which Mr.
Austin visited he found wages ranged
from 8 to 30 cents a day. In the
coal mines, coking plants, iron ore
mills and in the operation of furnaces.
American employers paid their hands
more for one hour's work than is j)aid
to twelve hour's work in these same
lines or occupation in China. Is it
conceivable that any system 'of bank
ing or granting of credits will enable
the American manufacturer to over-
i:., in ;. onntrnl nf the come such competition?
blAUUCUt TV 111 fc W ww w.
markets of Argentina, Brazil, Mexico ia ine 15
and ether countries where money is the Chinese manufacturers could bor
row tunas irom European orancn Danxs
in China just as cheaply as our banks
could lend to the American manui'act
lief that it will accomplish the desired "'"3. As Carnegie says, there is no
, . , patriotism in business. Even if the
0Dje:t. " . , L , .. .
, ,, uninese Borrower nau 10 pay wgucr
During the past half century our ex- . . .
, ... ,. rates he could well afford it, and still
port trade has grown more rapidly than , .
yw, tit.w b r !, on (nnrmniiq 9(1vantair( river his
scarce.
It is a plausible scheme, but expert
ence and reason do not warrant the be
that of anv other country. This half
century was a period of high Tariffs
The increase in exports was greatest
in those products that were most effect
uall Protected by the Tariff, that is,
have an enormous advantage over his
American rival.
The truth is that so far from competing
with Oriental exporters for the South
American markets, we could not pos
ua 1 rroiectea oy mc iauu, u , . . , .
. , . , ... sibly hold our own market against such
in manufactured goods. Many of these ..... . , . . ,
. , u competition without the aid of a good,
pfOQUCIS nave suppiameu iiiiBiiaii i-i" . . . n, . -... .
, ..... a . . stifl Protective Tariff on Chinese or
ducts in foreign markets, and not a
7 . . Japanese products. As Mr. Austin
i w nave oispiaccu cukhui kui;us w ... . , . j u
MKua. - '- tran,ported Irom Hankow to Brooklyn.
dur1Cg tn.s entire per.oa o, nuv y sod $2
money taics wcic niuv.ii iubh .u
land than in the United States. Lon
don was the world's financial center;
England was the greatest of creditor
natioos; while the United States was
the worlds greatest debtor nation and
less per ton than that which comes
from Tennessee, a distance of only
800 miles. Now that the competition
of the Panama Canal has cut the dis
tance in hall, and a Free Trade Con
ine worms greaiesi ucuiut unuuu uu t- -n
. T, ., KT, gress has removed the duty of 2. 50
the greatest borrower. If the ability '
JTZl IUU ylft UVU ll U 14 VUIUQ) wnu v
to grant longer crenits was the deter
. . , . . . ja sold at still lower rates,
mining factor in promoting export trade ,
more rapidly than that of the United
That is the sort of competition which
States.
A still more conspicuous disproof of
this theory is furnished by the experi
ence tf Germany. Thirty-five years
ago Germany's export trade cut a small
figure in the world's commerce. But
after 1880 it began to spread out, and
since the opening of the Twentieth
century it has grown more rapidlv t an
that of any ether coun'ry txcepting
United States. Goods marktd "Made
in Germany" are now found in every
quarter of the globe. Besides sup
planting English goods on foreign
The product of labor toiling twelve
hours a day for from 8 to 30 cents.
His only defence against such com
petition is that policy of Protection
which has brought such phenomenal
prosperity to the United States and
Germany; the policy which, in spite of
England's power to grant longer credits,
has enabled her to chief rivals to Pro
tect their home market and to conquer
fiteign ra irkets. W. H. Allen, in
American Economist.
An Important Duty
Fnliowinir the official call for the
markets; German goods have also in- Republican National Convention will
vaded England own home markets. Come calls for congressional and state
But it ts m the trade with south Amer- conventions for the election of dele-
ica that Germwy has made the great- 81tes. The selection of delegates is a
est nrosrress. In the decade before the matter ol unusual imoortance this vear.
worli war she was fast overhauling owing to the fact that there are no can-
F.-icrland. and. aeeordine to one G;r Mirist. nf nrh outstanding nre-emi-
mao. authority, "if this contest hal Lence that the people are likely to
bien delayed for another decade Ger avf. neeifie instructions to their dele-
IB r
many would have swipt England ofl gates. While the chief issue, in our
the board. opinion, will be the tariff, and the Re-
All this progress was gained under publicans are in more nearly unanimous
precisely thi same conditions as agreement upon that subject than they
those which obtained during the pro- have been in years, there are many
gress of our. own foreign trade. It other subjects on which the party will
dateifrom tb.5 establishment of Biv be asked to take a stand. There is a
marck'i high Tariff policy in 1879, targe variety of propagandas, with
and has besd grjwing lister anl las adroit, resourceful emistai.es who will
ter while the Tariff has oeen male be present to insist on their pst issues,
mire thwjughl Protective Agaia, Some of these are decidedly local.
as was.the c us in this country, the Some are not properly political. Vari
increase of ex? irts ws greatest in the ' oui phases of our international lelaiinns
products that were ras efl-ctua!l will be present d v skill'..' specialists.
Protected 0j the Tariff. And liuwl, There iu o twumuuizers ready
to sacrifice the party birthright for some
mess of pottage.
It will behoove the Republicans to
exercise utmost circumspection in the
election of delegates to minor and
major conventions'. Only the most
representative Republicans should be
chosen, men who know what Republi
canism is and believe in it and who
will be actuated solely by concern for
the success of the party as a perman
ent instrument lor promoting me
general welfare. Self-seeking men,
bent on some immediate pesonal ad
vantage, should not be considered as
delegates to any convention this year.
The occasion calls for the highest type
of men in the party, men of courage,
of conscience, olwisdom. The party
must not be reprsseated by" traders,"
by tricksters or by weaklings.
It is to be presumed that the vari
ous committess win proviae every
facility for the free exercise of the
choice of the" Republican voters. But
no matter what safeguards are used
and what fairness obtains, the dele
gates will not be really representative
unless the Republican masses give the
selection of delegates their personal
attention, Globe-Democrat
Mr. Ford's New View
, Mr. Ford seems to have learned one
thing by his trip to the outer edge of
Europe. It has cost him a lot of
money, but perhaps he thinks it worth
the Drice. although the information
could have been acquired at home for
less. He went to Europe, he says,
with the befief that bankers and manu
facturers of munitions and armament
were resDonsible for the war, but he
comes back with the conviction that
it is the people themselves who are
responsible. It is a strange admission.
And yet there are a number of worthy
persons in this country who have the
opinion Mr. Ford had, and who be
lieve the same demoniacal interests
are back of the movement for prepar
edness here. These bankers and
these manufacturers, with horned heads
and cloven hoofs, have formed an un
holy alliance to destroy the world, hop
ing further to enrich themselves from
the wreckage of humanity. It is a
weird conception. It assumes, it
must assume, that kings and cabinets
bow the knee to this combination and
do its bidding; that the nations cl the
earth are but pawns with which it plays
ghoulish game; that presidents and
the senators and representatives in
Congress are its servile slaves; that it
is, in short, the supreme power of the
world. One is lost in wonder at the
imagination that can conceive an ogre
so colossal and so bloodthirsty, and at
the temerity that, believing it to be
real, would oppose it.
Mr. Ford has been disillusioned.
Although he did not come in touch
with any of the nations at war, he got
near enough to learn that the people
themselves are responsible for the
fighting. If he had gone a little clos
er he would have found that they are
fighting because theybelieye it is right
to fight; he would have found that,
without a single racial exception, they
are in general in full accord with the
purpose of their respective govern
ments, and are sacrificing their lives in
the conviction that their immolation is
necessary to their country's preserva-
ion. Whatever may have been the
original causes of the war, hewev
mistaken or pernicious the influences
behind it, he could have found no
support for the American notion that
it was due to the desire of certain in
dividuals to find a market for guns.
Evidently he did not find support for
it, even at the cage oi tne iwontineni,
and now that he has returned with a
new and wiser view, he may learn the
truth that even in the United States it
is the people themselves who are back
of the demand for preparedness, and,
if necessary, for the maintenance of
their honor and their tights, for war.
Globe Democrat
VIS
Origin Of Joplin Zinc And Lead Oeposits
Lead was discovered and raining be
gun in southwestern Missouri in 1848.
Some zinc ores must have been found
with the lead ores from the very first,
but at that time they had no value as
all the zinc smelters were in the east
ern part of the United States. In 1867
and 1869 zinc works were established
at St. Louis and zinc raining became
profitable. The production of zinc
ores soon became equal to that of lead
ores and has ever since been an active
industry in that region and in the ad
joining parts of Kansas and Oklahoma.
The region, generally known as the
Joplin district, has been the subject
of a number of geological investigations.
Geologic surveys of the district were
made by the State of Missouri in
1870, 1874, and 1894, and a survey
of the Granby area was made in 1907
Surveys were made by Kansas in 1907
and by Oklahoma in 1912. The
Federal Government surveyed the
.egionin 1893, 1901, 1907, and a re
port on a survey of the Wyandotte
quadrangle lying partly in the north
eastern corner of-Oklahoma and partly
in Missouri, is now in preparation by
C. E. Siebenthal of the United States
Geological Survey. In studying the
ore deposits of this area, Mr. Siebenthal
reached certain conclusions regarding
the genesis of the ores which are some
what at variance with those reached
by some other investigators but are in
general confirmatory of the findings of
the United States Geological Survey's
earlier work.
In these investigations, the oiiginal
source of the metals has generally been
the subject of much speculation and
study. Analyses of large quantities of
material have shown the general pres
ence of measurable quantities of lead,
zinc, and copper in the pre-Cambrian
crystalline rocks, in the Cambrian and
Otfovician limestones, and in the
Mississippian limestones, and it is also
known that the Pennsylvanian shale in
a few carries appreciable quantities of
lead and zinc. These rocks comprises
all the geologic groups that make
up the Ozark Uplift, and each group
hss beeu considered the immediate
source of the metals by one or more
wiiters on the geology ol the ores.
The Government reports ol 1901
and 1907 expressed the view that the
metals were derived in whole or in
part from the Cambrian and Ordovician
dolomitic limestones from which they
were brought up by an artesian circu
lation and deposited in openings in
the Mississirmian limestones. The
present report, the result ol several
years study, likewise holds that the
ores were deposited by ascending ar
tesian solutions which derived the met
als chiefly from the Cambrian and Or
dovician limestones.
Among the items of evidence cited
in support of this view is the fact that
natural waters of the type found in the
deep wells of the Joplin district com
moly carry zinc as well as lead and
other metals. A large number of an
alyses of such waters are given, among
several anlyses of waters from deep
wells in the Joplin district or from the
region in Kansas and Oklahoma bord-
the Ozark Uolift. These wells
- " B
draw their supply from the Cambrian
and Ordovician limestones and t heir
waters not only carry traces of zinc
and lead, but when they are allowed to
stand in tanks or reservoirs for a while
thm derjosit a sediment that shows
considerable proportions of these met
als. The sediment from a waterworks
reservoir in Kansas showed a total of 8
pounds zinc sulphide which had bee n
deposited in a year.
D Other evidence is afforded by the re
Utinn of the ore deposit to the pre
sent distribution ol the Chattanooga
shale. This shale covers the Cambrian
and Ordovician formations over a part
of the Ozark Uplift and acts as a sep
tum between these rocks and the Mis
sissippian above to prevent the the
ascent of solution Irom oeiow. uver
the area underlain by this impervious
shale there are no ore deposits.
Much other evidence in showing
that the ores were deposited by ascend
ing artesian water is presented in a re
port Just published by the United
States Geological Survey is Bulletin
No. 606, which may be naa tree on
Home of the Big Black Bass
Fine Place to Fish Fine Place to Stop
Hotel Forsyth,
Forsyth, Mo.
Rates $2.00 per Day
S. E. MILLER,
Proprietor,
Agency Frank B. Smith Laundry
nit
1883 1V13
Chas. H. Groom,
Abstracter of Titles,
Forsyth, Missouri.
Have the Only Abstract Records to Taney County Lands. Attorney
and Notary in the Office.
Special Attention to Drawing Deeds and Mortgages, Taking Acknowl
edgmeuts, Depositions and Entering Protests.
T. J. Vanzandt,
Barber and Jeweler,
Forsyth, Missouri,
Only first class workmen em ployed and all work is guar
anteed lo give satisfaction. Clean towels for each and
every customer.
If you have a watch or clock that needs cleaning or re
pairing, or any jewelry that needs repairing, bring them
in and I will fix them up for you.
less
The Nelson Hotel
J. W. NELSON, Proprietor
One-Half Block South of the Court House.
Rates $1.00 per Day
First Class Accommodations.
A Good Feed Stable in Connection.
E3B339I
Room With Bath,
$1.25 to $1.50
Room Without Bath,
75c to $1.00
1
Twice as many bills have thus far
beea atroduced in this Congress as
compared with the last. What Demo
cratic Concrissmen lack in Quality of
their leijisUbn they propose to make application to the Director, at Wash-
5p ia quantity. ington: u. ,.
THE
METROPOLITAN
Springfield's Oldest First Class Hotel
Jesse Nance, Manager
"MEET ME AT THE MET."
Springfield,
Missouri.
ss
I
