THE BARRE DAILY" TIMES
VOL. XIX-NO. 256.
BARRE, VERMONT, THURSDAY,' JANUARY 13, 1010.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
FRENCH
Henry Fectean, Driver of Car Which Car
ried Mrs. Jerome Rogers o( Tun
' bridge to Death, is Being
Heard in Windsor
County Court.
Woodstock. Jan. 13 Henry Fcetcau of
mdsor wa placed on trial yesterday
in county court, charged with maniuugii
Iter in connection with tlie death of Mr,
Jerome Roifers of Tunbridge in an auto
mobile accident early in the fall. The
respondent, who worked in a Windsor
garage, was the driver ot tno wrecKen
car. Attorney General Harber and
I State's Attorney Colo are in charge of
tOIlic Powers tO the Attack the state's case and the respondent is
. represented by Davis and Davis of ind
at Salonikl, Bridge Being sor. The state will probably try to ahow
that the car was driven iu a reckless
Located at Demir-IIesser. manner. f?
BLOWUP
BRIDGE
To Ulock Advance of Teu-
CHAUFFEUR IS TRIED A ITfVQ CDCCn
FOR MANSLAUGHTER I nU I U 0 OlLLU
SAVED PREMIER
in Northern Greece and 50
Miles from Saloniki
A UNIVERSALIS! CONFERENCE.
ARTILLERY FIRE
Being Held at Bellows Falls for Vermont
and Province of Quebec.
Bellows, Falls. Jan. 13. The annual
mid-winter institute of the Unitarian
Universalis association of Vermont and
U. T-.. nt AnnKoi. Annnml VitQfpr
iiAb lJ11.Ii.JN OliUil CjU day in the Universalis church. There
were addresses by Rev. Charles Maples
of Burlington, president of the associa
tion; Rev. Margaret B. Barnard of Rowe,
Tinlironon TiivLi'ek nn1 A nc Mass., secretary of the rural eliurcli com-
Diuganan, lurKisn ana aus- . . . th Massachusetts federation
tro-German Armies Said feSii" sUfee?r
to Be Converging on SafKK
AKL,.1. DAnAvto In a well attended meeting which
' was the only one of the session open
Are Not as Yet Confirmed SX"fS
-Montenegro Is Hard -oof jX
PreSSed ' ' I Rcv- Samuel A- Eliot, president of the
American unitarian asboenmon oi v-aar
bridge, Mass., spoke on other phases of
the same subject. t
Unconfirmed reports that the attack f I atjleged CONFESSIONS ADMITTED
the Teutonic allies on the entente torces
In the Trial of the Mohr Murder Case at
Providence.
EAST MONTFELIER
MAN IS CHAMPION
BUTTER MAKER
Okuma, Japanese Statesman,
Saved by Quick Ac
tion of Chauffeur
BOMB EXPLODED
BEHIND MACHINE
Another Failed to Go Off
The Assailants Escaped
Frovidence. R. I., Jan. 13. The ad
mission of alleged confessions by the
at Saloniki has begun were followed to
day by the announcement in Saloniki
dispatch that French engineers, as a pre
cautionary measure, have blown no a
railroad bridge over the Struma river at w W defendants and the exclusion
' . . . ,, . of evidence concerning the character ot
Demir-Hisser, in northern Greece. This h , , tke of 1)r- c Kral)kiia
t - 1 A Me. ?1 1.1 A. ' 1
image was awiur. ou mues noiineast oi i Molir were the most interesting ueveiop
Saloniki, just to the south of the Bul-jments at yesterday's session ot the trial
garian frontier. of Mrs- alollr Luc" r rown aim
' ' a "i. Henry H. Spellninn, who are accused of
Turkish troops are reported to have th(i of'the hy8iciani
been massed in this sector for Saloniki jjy tle S(H;ond of these rulings the
operations, the Bulgarians apparently be-1 court robbed the case of much of its
ing in the vicinity of Doiran, near which popular interest as counsel tor the oe
.,, i fense had intimated that sensational
niuieiy n is wpuxieo, wM iu ""- revelations might be expected
mans to the west around Monastir. The alleged confessions of the negroes
Rome dispatches indicate the Italian to the police that they were, employed
people regard with concern the Austrian by Mrs. Mohr to murder her husband
capture of Mount Loveen, giving Austria w.ere ?e repudiated except in the case
. .u. 01 third negro, George W. Heelis who
mu w " " has turned state s evidence, vuuie the
which she has been rising as a naval judge decided to let "confessions" go in
base for raids in the Adriatic. The Ital- he stated that the jury would be in-
ian newspapers are clamoring for allied flmoted to disregard them consider-
r r inn- mult rr innruonrn of MrL AfnniV
intervention in behalf of Montenegro, CoumwI ,011Rlt strenuously ' to exclude
which is seriously menaced by this Aua-1 the confession.
Chief Inspector William F. O'Neil of
I the police department testilied that the
statements by Brown and Spellman were
made voluntarily. He denied that the
men were roughly handled before confes
sing.
Tokio, Jan. 13. Count Okuma, the
Japanese premier, had a narrow escape
to-day at the hands of assassins, lie
was returning from the royal palace
shortly after midnight and was approach
ing his residence when two bombs were
hurled at his automobile. The chauffeur
caught a glimpse of the bomb-throwers
as they were about to hurl the missiles
and he speeded up so that one of the
bombs exploded behind the machine and
did no damage, and the other failed to
explode. The assailants escaped.
John Bond Won State Association's Gold
Medal and Creamery Cup Important
Session of Association Held at
Burlington.
Burlington, Jan. 13. About 000 per
sons are attending the 4i!th annual eon
vention of the Vermont Dairymen' as
siniation here. The exhibits of dairy
and creamery butter are pronounced by
Orrin Bent of Boston, the veteran judge.
to be fully up to the standard of pre
vious years,
pdier won the association gold medal
and creamery cup .with a. score of 07
The dairy cup was won by R. II. Bristol
of Waltlinm with a score of 07. There
were Nil samples submitted, the highest
score being 8ntl ue lowest Hu, the
average being IM'a.
The Women s auxiliary elected officers
as follows: I'resiiant, Mrs. Luelln Bick
fdrd of Bradford; viw-president, Mrs.
11. K. Brooks of ht. Albans; secretary
treasurer, Mrs. II. M. Farnum of Mont-
pelier.
The Verinor.ijtate Cf-sW Test associa
tion elected the following oflicers: Presi
dent, J. B. Candon of l'ittsford; vice
president, Ralph Denio of Bristol; secretary-treasurer,
E. IL Jones of Waits
flehl. . .
Commissioner of Agriculture E. 8.
Ilrigham . urged maintaining the high
standard of Vermont dairy butter which
had existed for 50 years, principally by
virtue of our nearness to trie great east
ern markets. v
"We must have better butter if we are
TERRIBLY WOUNDED
TiV PVRAPPn TOITf T IV1 compete with states like Wisconsin,'
1)1 tWlUtU jj commissioner Brigham, "which ha-
has
Mr.
lately adopted a state brand.
Harry Day of Vernon Had One Side Jones of Sudbury rose to inquire what
had been accomplished by the state bu
of Chest Crushed, One Thigh Gored
and Both Bones of Left Leg
Broken and Then Tossed
Outside of Enclosure.
reau of markets to find a better quality
NEW ATROCITY
IS. REPORTED
FROM MEXICO
Oil syndicate, charging that these inter
ests through rival efforts to monopol
ize the oil properties in Mexico, had been
rcMpmisililii fur the revolutions of that
country, and for strife, along the bor
der. . .
Senator Sherman's resolution prompt
ed Senator (lalliliger to read a telegram
roin Judge 1.. V. Holmes of Jew llainp
hire, askltig that everything possihlo
be done to locate his son, Thomas B.
Holmes, only surviving member of the
group of "Americans attacked by the
f : l ... . n i i i .. i
rrt i . r Am i.ucucBii paining near i niniiaiiua. ijiut,
1 en American Men and 1W0 amiouncitiif that Holmes had been lo-
t-i i; v tit n t cated, the New Hampshire senator re-
IMlgllbll VV omen Are Daia marked that the time certainly had come
lor conclusive action in Mexico,
Senator Stone expressed the belief
tnat the bandits committed the mur
ders deliberately to embarrass the Car
ranr.a government. He asked Senator
Oallinger what he would have the Unit
ed States do.
Senator (iallinger replied with assur
ance that he had no desire to embar
rass the administration in the Mexican
crisis but said that he tlioucht the tinie
MRS. JACK LEFTBRIDGE ,,a,i '! 'he atrocities against for-
eigners in Mexico must stop, ami inai,
NOW ORGANIZED
UNDERCHARTER
Barre Retail Merchants' As
sociation Comes into
New Form '
to Have Been Slain by
Villa's . Men in Madera,
Chihuahua, but the Report
Is Not Confirmed '
AND A MRS. BERRY if the de facto government could not
preserve order, rresmcut uson snouiu
communicate with Congress and ask
what was his further duty.
,w, i T 1. i. .. . : 1 1 JA,.lVA,t
The Former, the Wife Of a the time had come for the American
n i ' t !-. i a An people to let their sentiment on the
JKetirea UrillSn ArmV UI- Mexican problem le known, and ho as
IlCer, IS bald tO Have JLeen stepping, procrastinating, apologetic and
un-American."
In the House, discussion after the in
troduction of the Dyer resolution was
brief. Representative Henry of Texas
defended the administration, declaring
President! Wilson had kept the United
States out of war with Mexico and de
bouncing former Governor Colquitt of
Texas for an attack on the president's
.Mexican policy.
AS INCORP yATED
UNDsoTATE LAW
A. C..fioore Elected Presi
dent and Frank W.
Jackson Treasurer .
a Victim of the Murderous
Fury of the Mexicans'
Mrs. Berry Was Her Companion
trian success on her western frontier.
POSITION OF ATTACK
ON SALONIKI
-IS DESCRIBED
PRISON LABOR IN FORESTRY.
Rome Newspaper Reports that Germans Suggested by State Forester Ha wes to
Conference on Charities.
Burlington, Jan. 13. State Foreste
Austin F." Ha wes sent to the meeting of
the Vermont state conference of chart
ties and corrections yesterday a let
ter suggesting the expediency of work
ing prison inmates on the state forestry
reserves after the season tor lngnway
work is over.
The conference concluded its session
by electing the following officers : Fres
ident, W. J. van Patten of Burlington
vice proflidents, John M. Thomas of Mid
dlebury, Charles Tuxbury of Windsor,
Anna L. Davis of Brattleboro: secretary,
A. R. Gilford of "Burlington! executive
committee, tmily S. Proctor of Proctor,
John E. Weeks of Middlebury, Mrs. T,
X. Vail ,of Lyndonville, Thomas Mag
ner of Burlington, L. S. Hayes of Bel
lows Fwlls, J. X. Barss of Vergennes, Mrs,
Harriett Smilie of Montpelier, W. W
Bartlett of Burlington and Caroline
Woodruff of St. Johnsbury.
KI Paso, Tex.. Jan. 13. A report is
current in Chihuahua that ten American lUULillJMj r AKHi-
men and two Englinli women have been I . WFLL FOR RETIRING
I ... t I i. ......... II. I 1 . . M .. J 1. . . 1.11.- A .. . 1 1 ,l i 1 . .
Briarliam answered that an improvement huahua, accordinir to the Americans who! I AolUlv Al LI V lr Ha
of from one to two and one-half cents arrived here early this morning with the
had resulted. bodies of eighteen Americans who were I Large Number of People from Many De
Brattleboro. Jan. 13. Harry Day. un-Ur t:....i....i n.. ...I u i r
... i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 inrii niri-iii iiii' liict iiaiiiNiiii unt r bhvw iiih iii 1. 1 h wfiiiifii rfiHii ii'ii uv ii it v rr
be the wife of
a retired Brit
ith an English
had been stay
the Hearst prop-
crops, livestock, ert v.
dairies, forage, etc. "Grass is the most , , , . , '
valuable product we have," said Profes- Washington Not Notified of Second
sor Warren, "but we don't sell much of Massacre,
it.'' He declared it was the dutv of Washington, D. C, Jan. 13. Xo word
.iT.- . " 1 " " for Springfield, Mass. X Jus is tlie Dig- been killed was said to
T . "71 . . '' w,,lr" gest thing ever brought to the East," he Captain Jack Leftbridge,
u. i .i i .. t.. ' ii r suid. hsli army oflicer, who w
ii:V- e,-U- .i" . v Professor G. F. Wnrren of ,c Xew conipni..n, a Mrs. Berry,
'7 . ' r York 8tate Co.f Agriculture ana- im, at Bahicor ranch,
Y. ' . .. . .. I Ivzed the distribution ot
nominations Paid. Their Respects
to Rev. and Mrs. George H.
Holt.
The, Barre Retail Merchants' associa
tion, incorporated under the laws of Ver
mont last summer, came into active be
ing at a meeting of merchants held in
manufacturers' hall last evening, when
the old organization was disbanded anil
an organization was effected for conduct
ing the affairs of the incorporated body.
There was a large gathering of mer
chants and much interest was manifested
in the various preliminaries necessary
before the organization was completed.
A set of by-laws, drafted in accordance)
with the statutory provisions for incor
poration was adopted unanimously and '
other steps were taken toward insuring
the permanency of the association.
Stockholders elected Frank W, Jack
son as clerk and the following merchants
were elected trustees: Arthur C, Moore,
B. W. Hooker, A. C. Tilden, W. 1.1. Smith,
E. M. Lyon, A. W. Badger and J. W.
Vaughan.
Afterward the trustees organized bv
electing A. C. Moore as president and
Frank W. Jackson as treasurer. The as
sociation has arranged to retain head
quarters in the C. W. Averill building
and meetings are to be held regularly.
Mr. Day was leading the bull from the
barn to the water trough in the barn
yard, when the, animal, which is said
to have manifested an ugly disposition
A large assembly of people from other
denominations, as well as those of the
Baptist faith, were present last evening
to bid a formal farewell to Rev. and Mrs
George H. Holt, who are soon to leav
for a, new field of work in Corona, t.al.
Many were the regrets expressed at their
previously, rushed upon him. crushing Lastprn farmers to sell hay in the" big of the reported killing of ten' American prospective departure and manv wishes
, . V. y fi T ."' esstern mnrket, "otherwise, How shall men ami two r.ngiisn women oy .uexi-i0f godspeed and happiness will Joilow
thigh, breaking both bones in his left we f),(ll the lmrs(, t)mt (lraws tllt, wag. can bandits near Madera had reached the Jtheni to their new location.
leg m ikw me oonee protrunea tnrouKO i thst nnU th miiv la th hakiM in I state denartment to-dav. p. m. Unit. i.iiv him .r
me nesn ami nuriing mm in tlie air. the cities? It is the public dutv of Xew .-.- . r... mon a tnr of the Kantist church in
The injured man landed in the snow pMi.n, f.rmoea te. K..71 hvht Alu,nK ui. cPo.ici uiu- f. SllH' ii,r,,rv
ii. t a ii. i . " . r -i f ciaiiv. v...o...v w.. - yj
" "uc "'"J- u R a" ,f of them have the land in hay crop just , ... . . . of the year 1912, this church being h
oeiore ne was lounu uy .virs. unanes a little too loner. The reason whv we --" v njaumr, ma h- flt reaI pastorate: thoueh he was or
sell hay and milk is because we can get w dained and had preached uring his
more for it than we can for other crops. Pea to tne uepartmenc lo-aay m t cmne in Brown univer
We can compete successfully with all f'srawnes yu net -ior muo ai r.i sity. at ft little church in Jamestown, R. I,
Speur, who lives in one of the farm
houses and with her husband is em
ployed by Mrs. Richardson. Hu suffered
from exposure as well as from his in
juries, it is believed that he also is in
ternally injured. -
FED POISON TO SISTER.
other products, but we cannot compete
with the hogs of the corn licit, western
horses and middle west wheat any more
than we can compete with southern cot
ton." At the evening session Professor War
ren was the principal speaker. He urged
Kraroar was killed near Guierra in Chi
huahua.
The department was further informed I
that the band which killed the Ameri
cans Monday was commanded by two
former V ilia, colonels. Lopez and Bel-
tran. General Revna is also said to
Since that time he has been an active
and enthusiastic servant of his people.
wbt has won the respect and friendship
of the other pastors of the city as well
as of the members of his own congrega
tion. .
in. .. c . i .. ., . '.. - . : .... 1
Little Btfv Also Ate Son,- R..t His T.ifs I:. i""i't'' ! . 'f , . . ; i. l""K' K.....s vu. s.cu
- . operation of large rather than small """ pn ' i" of 8 Tocal solo by Mrs. Grace Cutler, a
" "ea- dairies, on the ground that a dairy of OTrK w owpaicnea, ".- men roa(iing by Miss Ethel Inglis, a piano
Burlington, Jan. 13. Helen Florence I?8S than - cowt and 100 acres, calling "rM5 m iraw kin dHet by j,86 Elizabeth Carson and By
the five-month-old daughter of Charles' for t,ie employment of two men, is not an1 oout K1 were held in reserve. Sen- ron firearsoh, a solo by Fred Inglis and
Steele, sergeant instructor of the organ- of uf"'t size to pay a satisfactory ator Shpard of Texas to-day received R vioUll and piano duet by Edgar and
feed militia of Vermont, and Mrs. Steele, ret,"n the investment. He said that telegram from Dr C- C. oung of El Rojrw Erickson. A bouquet was pre-
f on fv.i.,i,at. .-., a poor cow is better than an emntv 'aao stating that the dead Americans otltPd to Mr. and Mrs. Holt at the be-
are On West Frontj Bulgarians On
Gievegeli-Doiran Line and
Turks on East Flank
Facing Saloniki.
Ronie, via London, Jan. 13. An Ath
ens dispatch to the Giornale dTtalia
says:
'An attack by the Teutonic allies on
the entente positions has begun with
, a bombardment of the British lines in
Mje Doirah zone, which lasted the en
tiiV day.
"The attacking troops are distributed
as follows:
"The Germans on the west front
around Monastir; the Bulgarians on th
Gievgeli-Doiran line; the Turks on the
east flank." .
PUTTING DOWN REVOLUTION.
Many Chinese Plotters Either Killed or
Captured.
London, Jan. 13. Many. Chinese rev
olutionaries were killed or captured in a
series of engagements on January 6, 7
and 8 in the district of Tamsui, Potong
Yentzuwa and Pokle, according to infor
mation received from the Canton gov
ernment by British authorities at Hong
Kong and forwarded by the Reuters
Hong Kong correspondent.
TO EVACUATE CETTINJE
But Montenegrins Will Keep Up Strug
gle Against Austria.
Paris. Jan. 1& In view of the success
of the Austrian offensive against Mount
Loveen. measures have been taken by
the Montenegrin government to evacuate
i cttin'e immediatclv, according to a Scu
tari dispatch, says the Petit Journal's
Milan correspondent. Tin" government
divided, however, to continue the stnig
Hi'- against the Austrians, the dispatch
adds.
MAINE POWDER-MILL
HAS A BLOW-UP
DuPont Company's Property at Sooth
Windham Damaged, But No
On Injured.
South Windham. Me., Jan. 13. An et
ihHn ds rasped th pr boii of the
IiiPoiit ponder mills in the v;!U of
ha!I today, hut no on was injured.
Jt on-nrred bven th time of the de-
partnr of the nipht shift and th ar
ms! of th day workers, and the n
jwntenJeat h uasMe to mw;ga
NEW PANIC AT PEAB0DY.
Train Collision Thought By Children To
Be Explosion.
Peabodv. Mass., Jan. 13. The chil
dren of St. John's parochial school, sur
vivors of the fire which caused the death
of 21 of their number on Oct. 28,, be
came panic stricken again yesterday and
fled in disorder from the old high school
building where classes have been held
recently. The cause of their fright was
a crash that sounded like the boiler ex-
dosion which occurred during the fire,
It was due to a collision between a
freight engine and a box car in a nearby
railroad vard.
Mary Fuller, a girl of 10 rears, jumped
from an upper window. She landed on
a lower roof and thence dropped to the
ground, but was severely, if not serimis-
injured. Several of the children
fainted and became hysterical. Many
rushed to their homes, slarmim? parents
mho bad lot little ones in the fire and
soliiitous mothers liesieged the schopl
hmift for some time.
The nuns in charge of the school said
that since the fire the children's nerves
sere disordered, and thev were difuVult
to control.
UNANIMOUSLY OPPOSED.
Miners' Federation of Great Britain to
Compulsory Service BUL
Lon.ion, ,fsn. 13. The Miners' Federa
tion of Great Britain, meeting in London
to-day. rewired unsnimoutl y to opr""
the bill fr eonipiilfcury military service.
"No," Mid the editor, tf cannot no
ynor poetn."
"Wt,- asked tli poet; "is it too
SonirV
"Ve., hied t?e f!ff. U too
Vnrt and too ie an 1 too tiikk." St.
Ixhii Rpabl.e.
stanchion and that a dairy of 30 noor had been invited into the country by pinning of the exercises bv little Miss
animals is a better proposition than one "r"crai uuregon ne am ne wouiu lay J si.ieHl
of 15 higher grade anim"lj.
He submitted figures to show that the
operator of a small dairy receives on an
average about $2 a day. He advocated
morning of strychnine poisoning, hav'
ing been fed some tonic pills that con
tained the strychnine by her two and a
half year old brother.
Mr. Steele had been taking the tab-
Ina tvliieli a-jim Ivintr nn a tal,la Tlld
vouno- son ant. hold of tliem sub1Wa.I renting land when there was a chance
some and fed some to the baby. Being t MPnl Mry. Professor Warren
mr.en,ite.l thev t.ttt.vt like en,K- Ti, wa warmly applauded .when he referred
pills did not seriously affect the little to the K'tw" against dirty milk. He Swept Congress on News of First Mas
boy, but physicians worked for 12 hours 2?,ul tnc Kttwn bad been expected.
over the baby. Their efforts were un- A" . co",, mer "Ba "l Ta1 to tm'?ve
successful and she died at seven o'clock 1 " . ' some tooi
ii. i. tirooKs or Sloans is likely
to be elected president of the association
this afternoon. '
the message before the state department.! pr. pjani cf the North Barre Baptist
i I mission was chosen to make the presen
d silver table spoons and, in behalf
Tuesday morning.
The- funeral was held at St. Mary's
cathedral, Key.- J. V. fiillis officiating..
liurial was in &t. Joseph s cemetery
SUCCESSFUL YEAR INDICATED
IV A VP CiV TTi1CT?'YrT,riJ''Jrr I tation, in nenair oi me cnurcii, or a pair
s-"Ji'' iiTiiJAi i. of solid silver table spoons and, in behalf
r TXTCT AfPYTrri!0 J"8 f the mission, he also pre
AUaiiai lUti.UtUL,nwi the departing pastor a sterling
silver clotnes nrusn.
Dr. Piani said he had come totknow
the retiring pastor quite well and be
was proud to call him a friend, and he
told of having received a great deal of
help and inspiration from his sermons.
"Few people,"-said Dr. Piani, "have come
so close to nio as he lias, and I shall
follow him w ith my prayers into his new-
field of work.
sacre of Americans in Mexico and
There Were Many Demands
for Action.
STUDENT KILLED IN RUSH
For Sons of Veterans and the Women's
Auxiliary Officers Installed.
Major L. A. Abbott camp, Xo. 14,
Sons of Veterans, and the Woman's Aux
iliary mingled in their hall in the Worth-
And Others Were Seriously Injured at
University of Pennsylvania.
Philadelphia, Jan. 13. One student
r.a i.:n i l ... i 3
in the annual bowl fighting yesterday K" 'rt iT"'"8 for. ,the jom in- Jr tri.1, faiM to protect foreigners in
v.. .. ... vi.n.in ivvciii.iv i-inbru uv I ...... ....... v ..........
Washington, V. U., ,lan, 13. Congress
was swept by a wave of empassionec
indignation yesterday over the killing o:
American citinens by Mexican bandits
near Chihuahua. Demands foe action
came from minority members, and while
the administration leaders counseled pa
tience, even Senator Stone, chairman of
the Senate foreign relations commit
tee, admitted that if Carranza, after
between the freshman and sophomore
classes of the University of Pennsy
vama, won ;nv. the nrst-vear men. The
young man who lost his life was William
l.ifson. 17 years old, of Elizabeth. X. .T.,
who was taking a course in arts and
sciences. JWre most seriously injured:
(Jordon Smyth, sophomore, concussion of
the brain; Arthur Essick, sophomore,
sprained leg: John Hill, freshman, lac-
rations. ilie others suffered from
shock and exhaustion.
Immediately after the news of the
ragic ending of the bowl fight reached
the two organizations. A social hour I The atmosphere was surcharged with
and a substantial banquet served ,by the J excitement when the Senate and House
Indies after the installation ceremonies met and the storm broke quickly. :en
were among the pleasant features of the ator Sherman, Republican, .of Illinois in
annual event. There was a large attend- troduced a resolution to express the sense
anoe and the feeling seemed to obtain of Congress that there should be inter
that the "sons and the auxiliary are vention by the l-nited States and l an
entering upon a most successful rear. American nations unless General Car
The presence of several (irnnd Army I ranza. could comply at once with a de-
men and their wives added to the enjoy- Imand that he protect the lives and prop
ment of the affair. lertv of foreigners. In the House, Rep
A. W. Robinson, who is the eomman- J resentativ'o Dyer of Missouri offered a
der of the Vermont division. Sons of I resolution asking President Wilson if
police headquarters a detail of the mnr-1 . ' ,ntHl,,Hl tlie following officers he did not think the-time had arrived
Her squad was sent to the university to -""ajor ijpoott camp: Commander, to abandon watchtul waiting and invade
arrest material witnesses of tl,. . T. ;, I v ' 'e.uur ht coniinanuer, r.i-I .Mexico.
inn jr.. ii-rrv; junior vice coinmanner,
Fred K. Davis; secretary, Charles San
born; treasurer. A. W. Hobinson; chap
lain. O. .'. Dodge; guide, Charles (Jau
thier; inside guard. Raymond Ducharme;
camp council, C. C. Rollins, C. L. Gau
thier and O. .1. Dodge.
The installing master for the women's
and they will appear before the coroner
when the inquest into Lifson's death is
held.
The fight was one of the fiercest held
n years by the .two classes and Lifson's
cath was the first fatalify in the lone
list of bowl fights since 1H70, althoiich
there have been men injured in these
contests.
The resolutions were not acted upon,
both being referred to the foreign af
fairs committee. But there was aroused
by the latest Mexica trocity general
spirit of resentment that most conser
vative leaders found it difficult to re
strain. Senators Oallinger and Borah,
on the Republican side, in the upper
DIVORCE SUIT CONTESTED.
Dr. A. C. Foster is Suing Helen Foster in
County Court.
In Washington county court to-day
ie contested divorce suit of Ir. A. C
Foster of Harre sgain-t Helen Foster on
lie ground of intolerable severity was
farted, the suit of .lame Cannini vs.
Martha Canning having been oomi leted
yeterrtay alternoon. Jn the first-named
ess Lr. Foster as on the stand this
for.-nixm and was under rross-evamina-fitn
when court took a rers at noon.
He is rrj.rr-enteJ by Attorneys Carver
and Fay. while the prt-ti'-nev is repre
sented by II. C. Shurth rT of Motif pelier.
A Happy Memory.
-IV you reiwwtjer tljit yon rmv
j.r-n.l to nie anl C at I refnsed ia!
He- Ves, t-at is one of 1 'e"s rt
(eaut.ful tBetu'-i . i:iaia Courier.
auxiliary was Commander John W. Aver- House, echoed the terms of the Sherman
ill of R. 15. Crandall post, Xo. .VS. G. A. resolution, which declared that the Car
R and the following members were in- ranza government apHared powerless to
ducted into office: President, Mrs. Clara cop with the lawlessness in Mexico and
E. Perry; vice president, Mrs. Xora Car- declared intervention the only alterna
ey; secretary, Mrs. Grace I. Ducharme; tive unless reparation for the Chihna
treasurer. Miss tieorgia Wilson; chaplain, hu outrage were speedily made and
Mrs. Blanche Xourso; inside guard, Mrs. capable of controlling the situation.
Alice Bingham; (Mitside guard, Mrs. May Senator Stone urged patriotic support
Brink; guide. Mrs. Pearl lioulery: assist- f the president and Patient frlmiran,
ant guide. Mrs. Edith Dodgr; patriotic ,,,; the experiment of trying out the
Carranz government should prove a
failure.
"Carranr-a proves himself inrHi-ient,"
he sM 1. "if he is una hie to punish erini
ins! and to insure safety to foreigners
f..iM f Thinl mitk 1Kb ... I
A Great ComTort. Idaho. Mr. B.WTih. ti.at there i- onlr one
"Diibkins is a great comfort to me." I thing to do. and that it to go d their
J ou ran say that, armed ant intervene.
instruct'-. Mrs. lola Rollins; iudire ad
vocate. Klmer E. Perry; trustees. Mrs.
Vora Carey, Mrs. lola Rollins and Mrs.
Pearl Bolder v.
PAID OFF 3 NOTES,
MET ALL EXPENSES,
GAINED 45 MEMBERS
Presbyterian Society Made Marked Prog
ress During Year and Adherents
Were Much Pleased at the
Reports Given Last , '
Evening.
Reports from the board of manairerai
and several societies' of the Presbyteri
an cnurcii, as read at the annual meet
ing held last evening in the vestry, show
that the .year just completed has been
one of the most successful, i not the
greatest, in the history of the organiza
tion, it was a goodly number which lis-
tened to the excellent reports that were
given. Uuring the year the church ,meb
all current expenses and paid off three
notes on the manse. The total income
for tlie year exceeded last year's total
by over $300. An addition has been
built to the rear of the church, in whicli
can be erected a pipe organ and other
minor improvements have been made.
Ihe spiritual life of the church was
not lagging cither for duriiig the year
65 new members joiued the church. Death
and removals numbered 20, so that the
net gain for the year in membership wa
45. The pastor has performed li mar
riages, has administered, baptism to 2)J
nd has officiated at 10 funerals. Ihe to
tal membership of the church at this
time is 30!). , .
During the past year the church lost a
ery earnest and loyal worker in the per
son of George. H. Stuart. Tribute was
paid him in the report of the pastor.
Ihe three retiring members of the
bord of managers were re-elected. Wil
liam Craig was asrain re-elected to fill
the position as secretary of the church
and William Black was given the office
of financial-treasurer. The same corps
Rev. Mr. Holt responded w.ith a talk of ushers as in the past with the addi
in which humor and seriousness were in- tion of Howard Cole, William Fd wards
I dan't see low
He's the most tirrme rhuirp I have
ever it t.
-That s just it. Although I dont
anvmrt t much, it's true, rverv time I
look .at I).:! kins I fee) that' I crnii.i
smoiir.t to le." Pi: (n!! g'..ita Aire -Her
ald.
Sens tor Thomas of Colorado a!o ad
t rsed arsint intervent tm ex.-vpt as an
unavoidable resort, de bring the I nit -I
Mf.W" meter wwild get exit ,( Mik-v
if its armie eroed the Kio .rsn !e. He
mi a tifWi' sr-e4. assailing th-.-
t-UflarJ til tonijupy a4 h Par.' m-u nevt S-r!a r.
termixed. lie described his work in
Havre as in reality his first course in
preaching, in which many of his college
theories had been proven to be wrong
and In which many of his rough spots
had been worn down. He advised the
church to change pastors as little as pos-
Ible in the future and spoke feelingly
of the warm friendships he has made in
the city and among his own congrega
tion. He expressed for Mrs. Holt and
himself a deep regret at leaving this
parish and admitted a certain amount of
dread at the prospect ot having to meet
and win the confidence of strangers in a.
new place. With this latteri feeling in
mind, he urged that the memoers of the
church do tlu-ir utmost to welcome and
assist his successor, whoever he may be.
Dr. J. W. Bamett of the Coniirecation-
al church, in behalf of the pastors of
other churches in the city, presented Mr.
and Mrs. Holt a framed picture and
wished them godspeed in his farewell.
Rev. Ivan Benedict of the Baptist church
in Montpelier described Mr. Holt as "a
man who will meet anv church half way"
nd spoke of Mrs. Holt in the highest
terms as "a Christian woman and moth
er." Rev. Mr. Bishop of the Webster-
ille church bade the Holts farewell with
the assurance that they would find wher
ever they went "the same faith, the same
God and' the same friends." Rev. W. J.
M. Heat tie of the Church of the Cood
Shepherd described Mr. Holt as "a Chris
tian trentleman under all conditions" and
gave him the blessing of the Episcopal
church with his farewell. Ilr. K. t.
Vewell of the Methodist church and Rev.
lames Kamage of the F-ast Barre Con
gregational church were the last two
neakcrs and. like the others, expressed
their friendship and respeet tor .Mr. and
Xfrs. Holt and wishi-d them sui-cesa in
their new field of endeavor.
At t he eloe of the evening the mem
bers and friends of the church were giv-j
en an opportunity to bid the pa-tor and!
tus vii isrewe.l. Jjr. and Mr, .tames
Jrearson and Mr. nd Mrs. F. A. Hutch
jnmn were with Mr. and Mrs. H..Jt in
the rweivit-g line. Refreshment were
r'-l after th reeeptton.
Mr. and Mrs. IIi!t i!l leave next week
Thursday or Fri.!r for t?eir new irfme
in Corona, jiri. r-.-i-itv . Cal.fornia.
The former il preach his f ir-irr!l ser-
and Arthur Cormaek were appointed. A
rising vote of thanks was given to all
workers in the church.
I'nder leadership of the present pas
tor. Rev. Edgar Crossland, the church of
ficials and members feel that the com
ing year will lie much more successful ,
than the one just past. Mr. Crossland
has worked untiringly for the spiritual
uplift not only of his own people, but of
the entire citv. His efforts in cooiier-i-
tion with others along that line, have not)
been in vain, and with continued cooper
ation great results arc sure to follor.
After the business meeting refresh
ments of coffee and c;ike were served.
ITALIAN CITIZENS' CLUB.
Elects Officers for the Ensuing Year
John Casabella, President.
At the annual meetintr of the Italian .
Citizens' club, held in the club's apart- -
'ments in thi Northern building, the fol
lowing officers were elected for lfJlflt
President, John Casahella (re-elected)
vice president, H. Luchino; secretary,
John Calderara -, treasurer, G. Valli; ex
ecutive committee, Charles Hianchi, J. H.
Sanguinetti, Frank (iiudici. Peter He!
tranii: memlicrship committee, Cuv Ol-
tolini, O. Cahrini and A. Foiifsna; audi
tors, Stephen Rizzi, D. Giodici; rooms
eommitti-e, A. Cavanna and A. Orsi; en
tertainment committee. O. Cabrini, A.
Coinolli. and John Oltonini; janitors.
Hrusa Hros.
i!ii-ers' reports indica'tedl that 1 0 -
as a very iitperous year for tiie rlub.
i.ains were made by the acqui.it Win of
memhrnj and prorews along other lines
as reported. During the winter I:, out I s
the rlub is holding weekly reunions with
substantial luncheons served on Satur
ilay nights.
DANVILLE MAN DEAD.
George D. French Was Taken HI in
Boston Hotel
rt'-n. Jan. 1.1. Oore I), french. a
travel. r.g salesman, mha rrsistrej at m
'l"t"w hotel a e k mg t frm Dan
ville, ii! Ut evetm.jr. He ws
tik'-n i!l si it h the p-i m a r
a:rr -on-t - to i w i,. t . and fca-i Uea
ti. esre cf a I'HvsK-jaa,
