FOREIGNERS LEAVING MEXICO: EL PASO,: Jan. 14-A special train left Chik.-Ltfi. zl morning, bearing all I q foreign residents whplcouldossiblbe persuaded -to
leave. A special train also left. for Parral to bring out about two hundioa 'io:qv?--z':; ii.. there. ;. V ' , , . " ' . ' ' , '
U.S. SOLDIER TAKEN: NEW YORK, Jan. 14. Fellow passengers aboard the Sa . P-krta, upon its arrival here today, reported that' Albert Clark; private oUlieJSL-
U. S. infantry, was removed from the ship by a British neutrality officer, but later was , allowed to re-embark. .
HEAVY SNOW TIES UP S. Jr.: SACRAMENTO, Jan. 14. Owing to the heavy rrcr storm, the Southern Pacific has suspended passenger and freight traffic over the
Sierras. The Western Pacific F. R. is'still routing trains through Feather River -can en, trough there is a heavy snow storm arging.
NORTH HOLLAND FLOODED": AMSTERDAM, Jan. 14. The "Telegraf" report :hat the Zuyder Zee dyke at Katwoude burst today and Zuid Polner is flooded. The
inhabitants fled from Edam, which is partly inundated. The Polderezeevang dyk is 'erered; if it breaks,the greater part of North Holland will be flooded.
VON PAPEN PAPERS SEIZED: LONDON, Jan. 14. Copies of the correspondence seized ffbhi Capt.' von Papen, recalled German military attache, on his arrival aV
" Falmouth, returning, to Germany, were today turned over to the American, inbass for iransinission tp. the U.S. State Department. The papers show that von Papen
made frequent payments to, persons charged with the responsibility of blowing: up Inanitions, plants and bridges in the United States. - . , ... , t
.""'-''- ' ' , ' - , , ' i . , ; ''-V 'h
VOLUME XLVI. NUMBER 7.
(Associated Press)
WASHINGTON, Jan. 14.
The Caoinet meeting today
decided that the present Mex
ican policy will be maintained
and Carranza will be depend
ed upon to punish the Villa
bandits who killed the Ameri
cans. Carranza today telegraph
ed his ambassador here, from
Queretaro, that the Villa
bandits are being pursued
and he promised punishment
fitting to the crime. Govern
ment troops will be posted
from end to end of all rail
roads, and precautions will
be taken to prevent a repeti
tion of these outrages..
EL PASO, Jan. 14. The
U. S. army patrols in the El
Paso business district have
been withdrawn.
A call was being circulated
for a mass meeting to protest
against the "Massacre of San
Ysabel," but Mayor Thomas
halted the circulation of this
call until all Americans in
Mexico reach places of safety.
Generals Rodriguez and
Alameida were executed at
Madera after their capture,
according to a report from
General Trevino to the Car
ranza consul here.
Villa forces still occupy Go
mez Palacio and Lardo, sub
urbs of Torreon, according to
mail advices received here.
Carranza Consul Garcia,
answering a formal inquiry,
today declared that no expe
ditionary force of Americans
will be permitted to enter
Mexico to pursue Villa and
his bandits.
oooooooooooooooooo
O WASHINGTON, Jan. 14 O
O Chairman Stone, of the Senate O
O Foreign Relations Committee con- O
C ferred on the Mexican situation O
O with the President. He is said to O
O begathering information as to the O
O administration's attitude with O
O which to meet attacks in the O
O Senate. After the conference it O
O was said that it was not expected O
O to send American troops to Mex- O
O ico unless there are further de- O
O Telopments which wili force it. O
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
O EL PASO, Jan. 14. El Paso is O
O quiet, following the riotous scenes O
O last night when American citizens O
O among whom were many soldiers O
O engaged in numerous general C
O fights with Mexicans. The attacks O
O were attributed to the resentment O
O growing out of the massacre of O
O the Americans at Santa Ysabel. O
O In view of the conditions General 6
O furnished guards of soldiers to aid O
O the police in maintaining order. O
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
lliAlViiUilA refill 1 A11X1X.
:;: 'i. Yf MA .Sf it H WEST
lOOOOOOOQC'OOOOOOOO
'O WASHINGTON, Jan. 14. Sena- O
iO tor Works, Republican, California, O
jO introduced a resolution authori- O
O zing and directing the President O
O to intervene in Mexico and to es- O
O tablish and maintain a govern- O
O ment there until it is safev to O
O withdraw, O
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
(By B. F. Fly)
As was to have been expect-
I ed there was great excitement
jail over the country yesterday
over the recent assassination
of almost a score of American
citizens at the hands of Mexi
can bandits near the city of
Chihuahua.
Particularly was this ,true
in the hails of Congress and
at El Paso, Texas, and as was
further to be expected, the
opponents of President Wil
son gave utterance to some
very unthoughtof and ill-advised
language language
that was in no manner credit
able to the United States, nor
even to themselves.
But dastardly outrages of the char
acter of the Chihuahua massacre are
well calculated to make a man with
red blood in his veins lose his head
for the moment and give utterance to
expressions that hurt rather than help
the cause he espouses. Even some of
our congressmen "went off half cock
ed," so anxious were they to denounce
the president. Quite a number of
them, in each branch of Congress,
made blood-curdling spee hes against
the president's policy of "watchful
waiting"; but when they were asked
the point-blank question as to what
they would dp if they were president,
the invariable answer was that they
would "demand of Carranza that he
take immediate steps to capture and
punish the band of bandits that massa
cred our citizens,and therefore see
that ail our citizens were protected in
their lives and property."
This step had already been taken
by President Wilson, through Secretary
of State Lansing, and Carranza had
already given assurances that he not
only "deeply deplored the dastardly
crime, but that orders had already
been i sued to hunt down and punish
the as-. Jus," and to prove that he
intended to carry out these promises
it is reported that the band" of cut
throats has already been apprehended;
that the commander has been executed
and that the same fate, awaits the
others, and all others guilty of such
crimes.
That is as much as any government
can do; it's as much as our own gov
ernment ever did in the days when
our western states were infested with
roving bands of blood-thirsty savages,
whose main pastime was to scalp the
women and children, tie them to trees,
. and leave them there to die by indhes
or be devoured by hungry wolves.
The excited citizens of El Paso,
many of whom are known to have con
tributed cash to foment war In Mexico
that they might gain thereby, have
done themselves no credit by holding
a mass meeting to denounce the presl
YUMA, ARIZONA, THURSDAY,
Joseph H. Day, the progrcs-1
sive Bard homesteader, wsj
in the city today attending to i
various business matters. To j
the Examiner he stated. that!
his plans for improving his
splendid ranch are quite fx-;
tensive. . i j
Just at present, he is fex-rj
pec ting a shipment of! trjpes'
recently ordered froafs'
Armstrong Nurseries, among
them the following: ;
Navelencia orange trees, .
Eureka lemons. Mission olive j
trees, Manzanillo olive, sa-j
pota, budded, Mayflower '
peach, early Crawforcls, early.
Imperial, early Harvest ap.-
pies, Duchess of Oldenberg, .
fail pippin, Bismarck apple, ;
yellow Bellefleur, W. W.
Pearmain, yellow Newton
oippin, Transcendan't crab
and 100 vinter Bartlett pear
trees.
Mr. Day lived in the Yuma valley
12 years ago, where he had the Cash
Smith place leased (now the' Kent
ranch) ; since then he had wheat
ranches in Oregon and Washington,
and a corn, cotton and fruit ranch in
Arkansas.
Two years ago, he bought a 40-acre
tract at Bard, and he declares this is
the most satisfactory place on earth
l.o farm, and he will never move again.
It's Yuma for his for the next fifty
years, at least. Being quite a young,
man, just past the half century mark,
Mr. Day expects to live another fifty
years or more, and, judging from his
oresent splendid health anrl robust ap
"earance, no one would question it.
"Good health and prosperity are the
two things that go with the Bard
country," insists Mr. Day, who,, with'
his wife and sons Sam, Vaughn, rior
ward' and John are fast niakiflg. e;
garden, where a desert used to be.
Yuma project needs a few more just
such live farmers. ' r ;
And they are coming from the fotir
corners of the earth to insure Yuma
40,000 people in 1920, winch -is- the
high ideal set by all Yuma boosters.
THE WEATHER REPORT
At 5 p. m., Thursday, January 13;
191C, the temperature stood at. 56 de
grees, with a relative humidity -of -2S
per cent.
dent for his well guarded actions to
ward Mexico. If they want to pr
ganize a thousand of their number aid
volunteer to cross into Mexico" ani
help the Carranza governments to hufet
down those bands of roving cut-throals
and murderers, all well and good, but
it is more than probable that they will
think twice before they shoulder the
gun. . . '
h
iu vi ii era oi
m uiwtL m y. urn u
. JANUARY 13, 191G.
UI Oil
i. li it
HE HAGUE, Netherlands,, Jan. 14.
-The fears, early in the war, that
Holland would be drawn into it sooner
or later have been gradually allayed
aoff practically nothing i3 heard of
inch a probability, but preparedness
for any eventuality continues to be a
;.opufar policy. The Dutch Red Cross
L; to ' be completely reorganized in
jamiar under the superintendence of
high officials of, the army and navy
medical, xsorps, and some of the most
prornhieut civilian medical .authorities.
jFftc headquarters of the society,
w&jcii.h&fr been in an inadequate
buiidmr; ' near the United States lega
tion h--r are to be moved to a large
mant-ion oil. Prinsessegracht, the for
mer home -'of -an. old Dutch aristocratic
family, which is a gift to the Red Cross
from four wealthy residents.
'fh-i.re has also been formed recently
a ?eicmlttee of wealthy .Hollanders
who of-. to present to the government
a number of splendidly equipped am
balancj trains.
I (Associated Press)
LONDON, Jan. 14. A wireless mes
sage from Rome reiterates the repori
shut there is an armistice between
r.ussia and Montenegro. Montenegro
states that it was Austria which pro
'poseM the cessation of hostilities with
he purpose of ' negotiating separate
oeace. ,
LONDON, Jjan.4.-at-.;is authorita-y-ely
rei orted? that, the olu'ensive Teu
tonic attack agaki3t iSisjpnika did not
.'nee. The rumjjrs apparently
ordinate';!, from tne activity of the
French in blowing up .bridges connect
ing Salonika wliichthe attackers
normally would jtraveJRumors that
Austria aj.d, Mntenegcojdiave suspend
ed hostiliiies.-may be baded simply on
the fact that' the Ausfian advances
are so, slowy-that Xhetsuspicion of a
siispengron -wjy arornsdav .
Jan.14:-
capturo of
OcUi.ii.ie. ' the cabital . rif .Montenecro.
as aagou'rfhdfl by tSe-.war office.
, Du k Sip6cfy assessor, is busy
'eliect'tiicesospfe the quarter
ending March;ji"31 "'Ai
Big Leap- Year! dance" at -Eagles' hall,
Saturday evening-, - January 15.
HOLLAND IS SflLL
ft Pii FOB IB
ii NOTES FROM
iilOUS CAPITALS
VMiu u stJ L y yum lu
sv ;su n tsa. skk a ra jBh a tbi a '-5b - s sr mi nt, m. is m mam
y 8 ill 1 1 Si is 8 I Ii s 1 i 81
lUSil 1 i? feel 8 t WW i .8 J I I I I S bUi J fall I
(By B. F, Fly) :
Ex-United States "Senator
Theodore E. Burton of Ohio,
is one of the numerous ,caridi-1
dates for the Republican
nomination for president- and
his .press bureau is rwonking
over time in sending out liter-
ntni-ft nalnilatftH fn win? him
. , , , . .licans in Madera are reported safe in
the coveted prize a 32-pag6official dispatches t0 the state De.
pamphlet having jUSt reached partment, which specifically deny the
uie Yuma Daily Examiner,
containing clipoings from
many papers throughout the
United States extolling, his
many virtues.
The ex-senator made his
greatest reputation- in- the
lower house of Congress,
where for many years he .was
chairman of the Rivers and
Harbors committees His
ecord in that position is so
"otten that he is now making
his campaign almost wholly
on the appropriations that
have been made from time to
carry out his own recommen
dations. In his day and time on that all
powerful ' committee the chairman's
Tord was almost equivalent to law.
tie tore the "pork barrel" wide open
and year after year dumped dollars by
vhe millions into catfish ponds- and
streams' in his own state (Ohio),--and!
wouldn't let any other state get- as
much as a smell until- his greed had
been satiated.
But, "chickens always come home
to rcost." The people -became so ex
isperated with his wilful waste' and
oxtravagance of their money that he
was eventually relegated to shades of
orivate life, from whence he: is now
trying to merge through the presiden-
ial nomination route. ' ;
He stands just about as much chance
f being elected president as the pro
verbial snowball has in a fight with
lis Satanic Majesty. But in the event
orre good, square Republican happens'
to be elected, Burton thinks that by
virtue of his ,having been a candidate,
lie will be appointed to some foreign
mission, or given some other job that
will pay big interest on the money, he
s spending in the pending campaign.
All the big guns in the Republican
;,arty of Ohio have declared for the ex
senator for president, and pledge Iiim
a solid Relegation from the-' Budkeye
-.tate. That's the favorite way of kill
ing off objectionable and worn-out poli
ticians indorse them for some 'office
ihat they have absolutely no chance
f getting, and then ever after call
them "has beens." And that's jiist
'what Governor AViilis, Senator Hord
ing ex-Governor Herrick and a lot mbre
of the Buckeye fellows are doing to
Burton.
Pull down the blinds. He's a dead
one too dead to skin.
ARIZONA SENTINEL FUt'iNljlaiJ taio
JIM CD
nillLli
I MADERA
ORTED SAFE
' (Associated rress) -
WASHINGTON, Jan. 14.-A11 Amer-
report of the murder of ten Americans
and two English, women. The colony
was attacked by bandits who were
routed.
H. U. McAfee, an experienced band
master is backing the organization of
a brass band here. Almost a dozen
good, players here are interested in it
now and hew members who want to
learn are welcome.
Mr. McAfee's-address is 1101 Second
street, just beyond the '.county court
house.
Yuma masons held an interesUng
session at the regular monthly busi
ness meeting last night. One matter of
special interest to Yuma masons at
present is the prospective organization
pf. a Chapter Lodge here. Most Chap
ter masons here now hold their mem
bership at Phoenix, although recently
there are many new ones from Califor
nia. The new move is a good one.
ooooo coo oooooooooo
3 O
O MEANT IN KINDNESS O
O- O
3 o o o occ oooooooo o b o
A policeman had told two old vaga
jonds sitting in ,the park to move on,
and as I followed them along the street
me of thein said: ' '
'Mim, I think he means lis kindly."
"Yes, I think he does, too."
"He knows that we'd be apt to sit
:here until we got a chill and, then
pheumonfat and death might follow."
'"''That's JL" i , V
""Whereas, if he tells usto move on
we keep our blood circulating, avoid
all the danger, and are spared to our
friends and the world!"
"That's correct."
"Which is very kindlyi, of : him .in
deed, Jim; and if it so happens that
.ve meet him again, we'lljimpress it on
his mind that we know-how to feel
grateful,.even if we bean't high-toned
aor richer Baltimore American.
You can find the right variety of
'Vndy in'Yuma at People's" arid 'they
make iPall.? V-
WANTS 10 OHIZE
- -HEW .BHD FOR VIA
