'ft-TiVSJil,' ,MZ rt.
in ., , 4?
Wqv iEuenttu; U?rall
KLAMATH PALLS'
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
1 j. c" JT -St "".-saE3K5V - -
Trill ! Vwr Su, He
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 1916
Price, Fife Cent
More Americans
Are Reported Slain
by Mexican Mobs
Strahorn Is Hard
at Work Again
I) lull (ienenil H'liiitarii Tveiiiy
Anient mm railed ui liU hole' mill
4 mi limt for Mm, tint ul tli in e
Kfilit'itra was away
Mm')' Auwrli un miller hi'tw Mint
( iitr,iti-ji tii permit Idem to nt'iuni-
- )lf(l (( r,,K,,m miti pursue ilit' h.tii-
in sired Anirrln.ii Attack Anwrl.mi "
"'" Tim miKcltil train bearing tho
iirll) " boillrn of tlin elghtum victims of
Tuesday night' slaughter nf Amer
ican mill llrltUli by VIIIIhU bandits
lllilrr Denunciation-, of AdmlnU- arrhed at duyllght (oilit) llnnilrmlH
.gathered "t tin- station nt th timn.
ii ml Hutched tlin transfer of the re
mains to the morgue.
Kyi' witnesses arriving ' the
Mexlo.'lis II "I'll SOft-l)lfd llllllftlt,
tearing gaping holes In tlK' heads of
'lln vlrtlmi).
tmixvi:. i.wlfihxh two wo
mii.n. hkl-ohtkh iikaim3.
faho iikaov to fioiit
I MIWlll. Illtlltllllt HI'"
HUi.ie, mill Kiwi Hint t-"tiw HMel.
bbbK
! wmm ;i
BBBBBBBBak.v :bbbbbtu
Hjfhi&
bbbbbbbbBua.'.J:-'.
Lr -Hew''
LETTER WRITING
WEEK IS TO GET
SUPPORT IN K.F.
run
HCHOOIX will hi:m out
MANY I.KTTKItS
Untitles Men Are I'ruiil to Yril
Letters, anil All Wtin Kentl Me.
Mi-.tr of Invitation to Other Heo
liiiiiN Arc Asked to Leme MmIn of
'IIicm- People at 'iiiinii'i''i:il Hull
for "Follow-Ly Work.
Poison and Gun for the Lukewarm CONGRESS TAKES'
STEPS FOR U. S.
Chinese Emperor Clears Court of All But Adherents
iiMlott llmnl C'armniMiH
nlnK III IUimIII".
Pur-'
a ii..ii..,i Umiu Horvlcu
CHIHUAHUA. Jan. Itl.
timrml Trrvlao, at tin het
(100 rrmni troona, l In !
Mill of Hi VlllliU bandit. Hi
tut lirm ordered lo run tlien. lo
rrih mill lmw lltwn wM'rcjr.
: IMPORTANT MEET
AT WOMAN'S CLUB
HlltAltV t'l.llll'S till.VKHAI- IIUHI-
St'JiH TOMOHHOW ArTKHXtK.
wii.i. iikviw nun axi I'UX
nun woiik
"" " illlllll in iinniiiiui uiniinoiiiviiin ...
Ih tlm 'lnlK ,,f work for "," ,,ri'"" comiilotcd, bo Hint work may bonln
fill onr. The Library Club Ih nowjon ,ni, pionwr nillroad HiU hprlnK
I'lillnl lr Scrvlcn
KL I'AHO, Jmi. CI. itor4lBK
in nnronllrmnl rrjiort Inmi tlilhiw.
hut,irrlr niorv Amcrl.wiis .iM-lmL
lua li woniiii, nirrtl ul (
ldra. A importnnl RnlliurliiK will b
A n rmult, th Hnipfr f IJI Vtu th. Kcnuriil mrfHw; of tlio Womnn'ii
... , .i .i. mmutimm Ubrnry Club at 2:30 tomorrow uf-
rlllirn Imm war nun Inr Bcbtta ' .-i,
tcrnoon. At thin tlnio th work of
Hilt. Ormt iirrwiiilloiwi Mr brlmt ,, Vnrloun iloiiarlinontB for the lat
liikrti to nol.l n rlm.li with McUrmw. )" will Iw ihuroiiRlily wvlowwl.
. and Ibf KXtfiit of the rliih'H artlvl
Amrrlrmi mlnrm Hfn-. rn.tl l m ,,
AiurTlran OonMil llwnnla nt Jnurr, Anothur fcaturo of tlio muutlriK will
uttnrkrd him tlila irwnUnR, nml forf !
hly rjtl him from tlio HUrliKw IK- ,..,. .,. ,,. Nlllioim rvu,.rat
tH In Oil. rllv. iMrnnU run Ult the tloti of Womfn'H Clilbx, mill tlicro In
.trerl, ,mr..l b, M.,n. C Ur. ml... rwnltloi of l.u, kind In Ihc
,,..,, ... , Htntn of Ort-uon which work ho pM
fin, ho blttrrly ilfnimnrp.1 Hit ! fi)t,vel). for ,.lv(. m,lr0Vf ment anil '
mlulMretlon. ntlmr lMttnrmntH of corlal nml ;'o-
lldwarilH decUrnil that tloneml nomlr rondlllotiM '
(!alru, the Carraniu conimnndmont
if .Iniirfx. had abmilulDly Bimrnntecd MAX l-ilAXCIW.tl LAWYKIt ,
-.... A...rlrnH' rtHXI l)KAI IX HAHIIOII
;iviunf iiiv nu.v. " , " .......
tiayhu ihry rould return infoly uad-
rfimon the mln. The twclvo rt- Hnltcil Prow Henrico
l-ortcd killed went In rcHon to lh.. ' AN KHANCIHCO. Jan. 13 -The
. . ... , , lbody of Honry (JIM. prominent at-
mid Kdward, U d.-nounceJ by y,,orirOJP WUH fouml ,, , the bay.
for making the tmomnl wCM A KH, ,, m., and a half lonK wuh
rnmoil HicMu iieoplo to re-enter Mcx- found on the buck of bU head.
Iro and furnlHh freah vlrtlnik for thej (Jill woh IuhI neon Tuwilay. when
,,,n(JU Jho wiih In excellent heollh and aplrltH.
' .Murder Ik hollcvoil the rntiHO of Ills
In order to provout thretttonod vlo- '
lenco asuliiMt lending MexIcauM, Oen- ' 1
fral Manual I.nnda and a do.en olh.r Tn(iwfw Iri1M,rt)..
Vllllstu leader have bwui Jailed ou fl Fox clo8cd ft lU,a, rocolUy
viirancy chaw. wm,' o. A. Illlllard, to whom h
Their arroita followed the dlcov-jtrnllBforH t,(l ownoruhlp of lot 1, la
ry of a plot by aniry Americana to block IH of tho Hot Sprlnga Addition.
Ilobfrl K Htraborii. proJiKtor and
priMlileiit of the OreRiin. Ctilifornin &
Kiiiiteru rnllwii), Ih iikiiIii in I'ortlnml,
a'K'l a two wcekH I tinnttl with tho
Krlp He rontrartiMl It on IiIk way
frcmi I'orl l.ttnl to Spokmif. after IiIk
ri'tiini from n Ioiik trip tlirouuli Kant-
nt Ori'Koii.
Onrit lerovered. howfer, Mr Ktrn
horn i1iiuk"I at nro Into n Kreat
man of reportH that had bren com
piled by Chief KitKliicor lloRiie. The
I'i'iKliicer liail lately returned from
IiIh Held ImeHilKiitlmiH unit dratiRhU
iiieii ate now tompletlnK the flnal
nuipH to hIiow Krnphlcally what the
jHtlmatCH of rotiHtructlon mean.
The reportH of tlm eiiKlnoeraMiuvo
been Ioiik ftwullcd, tliat tho commit
tee of Cortland bunliicnti men might
lme arcuratu Informutlou regarding
the rout of construction, and thus
have a working buHln for (ho raising
of the proportion of cost that Mr.
Ktrahorn l nakinc bo borne by I'ort-
Itind and Oregon.
Mr. Hlrnhorn iwyn he fecU much
fiiiournRfd over the protipecU. and
the whole territory houHi and coat of
Iksnd, In the Klamath, likevlew and
ISurn rountrleH, nre developing a
mint rordlnl Hiipport.
It Ih probable that Mr Strjhorn
will remain in i'ortlnml from now on
until the llnnurlal nrrangoments are
With "Letter WrllliiK Week" Just
a few day off, Klamath Falls in mak
ing nerloim effortR for taking advant
age of iIiIk great advertising pogHlbll
Ity During the coming week, every
pcrHon In Oregon la asked to write an
many loiters an possible to friends,
rclutlvcH or nctiualntances In other
sections, urging them to come to
Klamath county, at least for the sum
mer vacation. If not for permanent
location.
Tho many resources of Klamath,
both for a location and a summer
playground, are no varied and attrac
tive that there is material galore for
writing effective letters. In order to
keep the prospects thus started In
terested, the Commercial Club re-
quets all writing letters to leave the
names and addresses of those writ
ten to with Secretary Fleet, so thin
bbbw wKJmRwFZtKKEM tfi M JfaW
lliB i tfaR BmiaBBVf LaV E ' Vr v&Ktr, H aV m JF
ff? i'-. BBHlESrBBmiaHrW I BBBBBL ' l 1
bbbbbbbW. ttiA. )fih " SbBnS i
qHBb"MbCl.'i i,.im"i;HZr'Jii22Zv 'Kf&
t
TO AC1J0ICKIY
ATKIIVKXTIOX A liAHT HKSORT,
SAYS W1LHOX
Texan KnyM the Lone Star State 1m
Tired of Watchful Waiting One
llesolutlon la for Sending Trooaja to
Punish Itandlts Another Give
President I'ower to Uae Troofw aa
in V. S. Poaaeaalona.
United I'reas Service
WASHINOTON, D. C.. Jan 13.
Senator Lewis today Introduced a
resolution giving the president 'the
same powers in regard to the amy
and navy control In Mexico aa be
now exercises over them in Nicaragua
land Porto Rice. This paves the way
i
ifor intervention.
I On the floor of the house, Coasraaa-
i man Slaydon of Texas bitterly utr-
jrnigned the "watchful waiting" pol-
i icy. He stated that Texas la tired of
Till U the lutewt iiliotogrpah of Yaun Shi Kal, emperor of turbulent
China, together with hi signature. The plrturo was autographed aad
presented with much ceremony to Senator Saulsbury of Delaware at
Pekin, iiwt liefore the change of government.
'this, and demands action. t
Congressman Moss today intro-
jduced a resolution authorising the
president to send American troops
'into Mexico to punish the murderers
of the American miners, and the Beat
can bo followed up with Klamath Hulled Press Service
or summer.
TEUTONS ADMIT A
BIG RUSS EFFORT
KXOItMOUH OFKKX8IVK STAUTKH
IIV r.AU'K FKJHTKHS, AXI THK
l-IOIITIXO IX THK KAST IS OF
IIKSPKKATK TYPK
More Tule Lake Land to
Be Leased for Farming
About 300 acres of the roclalmed
lundH In tho bed of Tule I-nko re
main to bo leased for tho coming
tliroo year porlod, beginning March
1. 1816,
This land will bo loosed In tracts
not to exceed eighty acres to one Mr-1
"on, and the minimum amount IMC
January 31, UUO, for tho lousing of
thoHO lands. Maps and advertise
ment forms may bo had upon appli
cation at tho poBtofllco at Merrill,
Mulln or at tho United Statos recla
mation office, Klamath Palls
Payment of tho llrst year's reutal
will bo required on or before Fobru-
LONDON, Jan. 13. Iteports from
Austria say that In the struggles for
Crurtorysk nnd Cxernowltz, the two
temporary objectives of tho tremen
dous Russian drive in Oallcla and
Huckowlna. 17fi,000 men have fallon
on both sldOH In tho last few wooks.
Ilorlln and Vlonna, thoroughly
awako now lo tho enormous propor
tions of tho Russian offensive, do-
Hcrlbo tho nghtlng as not only the
most ilfHpcrale, but tho most roeK
Ichh of tho war, as far nn tho Russians
nre concerned.
Tho Pouter Lloyd, ono of tho moat
rellablo of tho Hungarian newspapers,
l& authority for tho Htntomont that
175,000 mon have been killed or
wounded In the short 70 mllo front.
Ilerllu saH tho Russian losses In dead
and woundod In tho last few days
nlouo oxcoed 50,000.
Fact Hooks and- other llteratorp rr-
Kardtng Klamath county.
The schools of Klamath Falls will
take an active part In the success of
Letter Writing Week. Superintend
ent, It. II. Dunbar of tho city schools
und' Principal Ilowmnn of the Klnm-
nth County High School will confer
tomorrow regarding a plan of action.
It Is thought at present thnt the stu
dents will submit their letters to
theso gentleuton, who will have the
necessary postage ready, and who. In
this wny, will have an effective oheck
on tho work started by tho students,
so It may be folowed up later.
letter Writing Week Is one of
publicity for Klamath that all can
participate in with no difficulty. Dur
Ine that time, letters from friends In
other sections can bo answered, and
In these, Invitations to como to Klam
ath and descriptions of the county can
be Included.
In case there uro any business men
who really feel that they have not
iii time to send out tho letters they
wish to, the Commercial Club will try
to assist them. These men are asked
to bring their letterheads and the
mill i esses of the parties to bo written
to, to the Club. Secretary Fred Fleet
will endeavor to write all or tneae
people, and return tho letters to tbo
business men for signature ana, mail
ing.
8AN FRANCISCO. 3au.-
, that the poison squad has been par-
13, Ag. ttcularly active. In
of the navy in obtaining protection
for Americans.
It is learned that the admisJBtra
tion is determined that Intervention
will be used only as a last resort Cos-
the home of re- dltlons In Mexico must beoomejlecid-
...., 'rrtlr vnrai. and Cnrranza a HBDOteBCVi
pU DHC2HIS. . 1
sasslnation from poison, the gun and . must be conclusively shown before
the knife were rampant at the court repui,iican, you would be very care-'armed forces cross the border. .
of Pekin: death feats are dally oc- fUl i,0w you dined out at tho lnvita-, Secretary of State Lanxiac says
. .. . -- - . - rrmnn'a atsna far thn mmlahraast
currences; no oues life is sate unless lion oi an impeniu BmcruuiBui um- - -
he declares for Emperor Yuan Shi clal." said Leong. "Acceptance of an of the murderers Is so far satlsfac-
Knl according to Kdltor Leong Kow invitation to ono of these death feasts tory.
of the Chinese Republic Journal. would bo as good as signing your Aaminisirauon leaaers aumii. turn.
Iong declared ho had Information death warrant." "" a-" ., .., w- ---..
nient In congress depends upon Car-
... , .,, u. ,M ., runxa's ability to punish the mur
hclm is seriously 111. His Illness has
never been serious, and he is In daily QTJ:' , ....., k-m- t..
. ..i. k , hi. ...r i Wilson also stands behind Lan-
eonference with members of his staff. I mrf.. .
(Editor's Note Ackerman's story ",Bf' ?' "LtT
.- the first officially authored state- T ,? ?? lUZ
. lines did so at their own risk.
I ment of tne Kaiser's conauion since' "
ODD FELLOWS IN
ENJOYABLE MEET
the first announcement that he was
ill. Others from outside sources had
the kaiser dying, and even dead.)
AT I. O. O. F.
SOCIAL SKS8IOX
HALL LAST NIGHT WAS MUCH United Press Service
Lv.ini-vniiinii.iiiinGUlu,' ROME. Jan. 13. King Emmanuel
(iO TO BONANZA
PRESIDENT NOT
FOR COMPULSION
has summoned the army staff and
cabinet for a conference regarding
lhA UnntAnaffHn nltimtlnn Ttflll&ft I I
'trooDs may be sent" to relieve the I United Press Service
Last night the members of Klam-.lssure on the Montenegrins. WASHINGTON D C Jta J, 13.-
atb Lodge No. 137. I. O. O. F. held The Montenegrin crown prince to-, """ "-'' ul '"?"" Vh- L
..'....... :.i i...ii on.i ,.'. - .. n,0nirt K-mr Nteh. tee on military affairs told the re-
,"" v . ':...-. :.'"..;:" " ; :;,,.j"i: .:::,". -: ,; . mamdor of the committee that pre.-
gUUJ VlUnU Ul Hill tJ-a WM-v,.vi ..v lima UJ(US W .. w -
evening with tneir "j.mmy-pipea (morea tnat tne yueen oi naix, wuu is
FUNERAL OF BAY
ATTENTOMORROW
SKRVICKS OVER HEMAIN8 OF LO.
CAL MAX WILL UK OOXDUCTKD
V SOCIALIST 1XX3AL OF KI.AM.
ATI! FALLS
nnri Mnra with their favorite game i.'aup.hter of King Nicholas a'?o ai
of cards until long after "all-hours" .pealed for aid to Montenegro.
had registered the passing or anotner j
day. . ,...,, j -ADa Corvloa
u llltu & I can ut.i ...v
In tho banquet room a luncn was(
spread, nnd at any time of the even
ing, between games or between hands,
J.OisDON, Jan. 13. The National
Federation of Miners has voted to
ng, between games ?" " Ustponc action in the proposed strike
he members "fM , "Jj" "J ' . gainst tho conscription bill until af
nffon unnitwlchos. "hlsmarks ana " ..
(Will U" imuiiM " -.--- i .. .. . ,
iry' 10. 1010, and for each of the buc-Jtiio successor to the late Justice La
will be consldored Ii CO
cr, , ),
Mtd'Udi will be Motived at t
cents 99t
"lata !, uuiil a o cioca tV1
AMdlng years on or boforo January 1,
-Tim land Is a sandy loam soil, re-
firing no clearing whutever, and It
iiiiii'mi win reowveu at ineifainna " ,. ...-. . -- ,
United States rscUmatlon office,. lUwaw'produced aome phenomenal yields
Wllnll. av.ll. ...... a .l.ln.1 .. ' Ia hutr ruin nnd other crOOS.
fkity, iraln nnd other crops.
SAYS TAIT WILL NT HK
THK NKW SUPREME JUIKJK
Unllod I'ress Service
WASHINOTON, U. C, Jnn,
13.-
mar's soat In the supreme court of
the United States will not bo former
President William H, Taft. This was
stated authoritatively today by a
source clow to President Wilson.
Funeral services for the late C, A.
iinv will bo hold tomorrow at ten
o'clock tomorrow forenoon from the
Whltlock chapol. Tho services will
hn conducted by tho Socialist local,
of which Bay was a member for sev
eral years.
nnv missed away yesterday morn
ing at the Slater rooming house, and
death bolng duo to bowel trouble nnd
rhnumatlsm. Little is known of the
man, as ho was extremely quiet, and
very reticent, even before his deatti,
regarding hU anteceadesU.
t
coffee, sandwiches, "hl8mark8,
fruit.
' The members of this order will go
to Bonanza Saturday night, to assist
thot lodge in tho dedication of their
new homo and to inttlato a class of
ten or twelve Into tho mysteries of
tho order. Tho officers of the lodge
request that every Odd Fellow who
possibly can to attend tho regular
meeting Friday night, as at mat time
all arrangements for 'ho visit win be
completed, nnd It Is -iecessary to as
certain tho number who will mage
tho trip, bo transportation can be ar
ranged for.
ter parliament passes the measure.
Ident Wilson Is opposed to compul
sory military service In the United
States.
Assistant Secretary of War Breck-
enrldge told the committee that the
continental army plan would be more
satisfactory to the war department it
tho enlistments were to be compul
sory Instead of voluntary. He admit
ted, though, that the president
strongly dissents.
Peterson Tells of Meets
ol Importance to State
Late War News
. Ily OAHIi ACKERMAN ,
(United Press Staff Correspondent)
BERLIN, Jan. IS. Tho United
Press has been officially authorised
to deny the rumor that KaUer Wl-
A number of important state con
ferences and meetings were attended
In tho last two or throe weeks by
County School Superintendent Fred
Peterson, who has Just returned after
an absence of nearly a month. While
awuy, he attended tho school super
intendents' convention and Oregon
Irrigation congress at Portland, and
the Farmers' Week, road builders'
coferenoe, Oregon drainage confer
ence, rural credits conference, oousv
ty fair oBclals' ooafareace and pota-
to growers' conference held at Cor
vallls. under the auspices of the'Orej
gon Agricultural College. " i
i Matters of general .Interest to counf
ty school affairs and to tne couaiy
suporlutendta were talked at the 5-
superintendents' convention. ;i no pa
... 111., 1 Ak .uu..... . tiB
pers BuuujiiiBu iu w "' '""i.",
examination were graded t .;, J
Regarding other seaaloas, UT?rtor& A
inn said: . ,iy"t
" .- - S ,. K..T .
"In the matter of further lrffcM
f-
M
(CoatUaed
, ijj.
-
'K$fi
- i- . i, -
':ii
1P
i
Ki
i$a
i
' it
,J'
i,Hd
