k -ift"iji'jiwin irsffi" -
-6 w i ytw , vv i ny.iy pii i friii.1, jgji pi l
'FINANCIAL EDITION
Ettenmg
BIrager
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
r '"fnvimq vr.jFm&G$mr
fVOli. n.-NO. 282 '
FpHILA. HEALTH BUREAU SWAMPED BY RUSH OP APPLICANTS
f gg , r "" - - Y 4 -- - 7- t" ? " tt1 !'r: r r: 'r-'
" fcffi iiiii-hx"""' ' ....t....i I,, ,i,ii,i) '. ., ',!.' ,7.iu, l"' f?ilV,,t "ja KaSslHioi Is x f ijfs' J4i!i!
p nn. nfofnrn shows the loner lino of
fv.Room 712, City Hall, for the documents which will enable them to
tale weir ennui en uuu m v, uuia-, J.UV.-5U ccruucatcs arc not neca3
sary in every case, but arc advisable. Applicants save time by bring
ing a signed sta'tement from their physician certifying that they have
not been exposed to infantile paralysis.
WIZIA FALLS;
. ITALIANS TAKE
10,000 CAPTIVE
f Biggest Austrian Strong
I hold on Italian Front Cap
tured by Cadorna
a
'TRIESTE NOW MENACED
High Points in War
Situation at Glance
First. Italians Capture the great
Austrian stronghold of Gorizia.
Second. West front Germans re
take Thiaumont, on Verdun front.
Allies advance on front .of nearly
four nilles on Somme.
Third. EaAt front Russian
troops Uirow back Austro-Gcrmans
on 30.milc line, in Galicla. Czar's
forces within a few hours' march of
.Stanislau.
f Fourth. Caucasus iront Kus-
H:, f t. irt.tA TitL-.j
nans muiicii new uuuiiain--. xunu
yield ground in Asia Minor.
Gorizia, the great Austrian strong
hold on tho Isonzo. barring the road
Etc- Trieste, has been captured by the
Iltalians. After fighting that lasted
,more than a year, the powerful moun
" tain fortress has been occupied by the
troops of General Cadorna. Tho fall
i of Gorizia is in striking contrast with
the hitherto successful defense of Ver
dun by the French. According to tho
Mate General Gallieni, tho fighting in
U volved in the attack upon Gorizia was
one of the most desperate undertakings
in military history. With Gorizia in
VT... ....MM, .lib AhM..M..a MVI .... ww
to push their operations against
Trieste and for tho conquest of tho
entire Istrian Peninsula.
A micrhtv trinlo offensivo. with sev
eral million men and thousands of guns
engaged, is slowly squeezing in tho
armies of tho Central Empires on every
front.
Fighting stubbornly, the Austro-Ger-
man-Turkish forces are giving ground
in every theater of war save the Bal
kans, where recent skirmishes may
herald the beginning of another great
VUued4push.
In the east the Czar's troops have
Town back the Austro-Germans on a
front of 30 miles, extending from Nad-
orna to Nisinof. Nadworna, a rail
way city of 10,000, lias been captured.
ine Russian center is now within a
fcwjiours' march of the important city
oStanislau, the capture of which will
materially increase the danger in which
General von Bothmer's army now finds
mU Tysmienca, seven miles east of
JRailslau, has been occupied by the
gvs. .
WOa the western front tho AUic3 havo
Won another slice of the German sec
gnd Jiiie, advancing on a front of nearly
four miles north of the Somme. Ger
SjH counter-attacks caused the French
! yield ground only slightly in this
Hi last night.
,ynly on the Verdun front, where the
Germans again Veoccupied Thiaumont
Ek in heavy fighting last night, are
Le, Teutonic armies still on th
fifenslve.
ten in the far-away Caucasus
Continued on Paso Two. Column Two
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
MK?r, PMladtlphut and vicinity
Th '",'" afternoon fair tonight
Un-
and
jnursday; cooler tonight; gentle,
therly winds.
cooler lOKJffftt,-
tENQTtt Of DAY.
nor-
ISttSf : 5S3 !?-!He?5 JaKhrS 1? 5 ft
DELAAVABE B1VEK TIDK CUAK0E3,
-T- - U LhlUliUUUU UUb w
CHESTNUT STREET
isn witr
B Ja a m. ,HliU wat.r 10 16 pm.
4 3T n. Ilaw waur. 4 42 p. m.
fc tw
,n3irEEAT0'aB at each nova.
JOl Ml in m II 21 31 4t
U2I bJ 4181 J bM &M S8J
nnrents nnd rplnMvra urnUlnc nf
RAILROAD MEN
MEET MAGNATES
IN ARBITRATION
Federal Board of Mediation
and Conciliation Called
Upon by Employers
BROTHERHOODS ACCEPT
NEW YOntC, Autr. 9. ncprescntatlvoa
of tho railroad employes announced this
afternoon they would accept tho otter of
tho United States Doard of Mediation and
Conciliation to submit their demands to
mediation, proldcd action Is Immediately
taken.
Acceptance of .mediation by tho employes
camo as a surprise. It had been odlclally
stated by brotherhood olllcers that they
"would discuss tho differences with tho
railroad managors but that a third party
was unnecessary,"
It Is believed tho porsonal plea of mem
bers of tho United States board brought
about acceptance by tho train men. It
means at least postponement of. the strike
that would havo called out 400,000 men and
tied up 250,000 miles of railway on 225
railroads of tho country.
"When tho conference between committees
representing the railroads nnd tho four
principal unions was resumed today, Ellsha
Lee, chairman of tho Railroad Committee,
read a communication afldrossed to the
four labor leaders, suggesting that tho dif
ferences bo arbitrated by tho Federal Me
diation Board.
RAILROAD CHIEFS' STATEMENT.
Lee, In his statement, said:
We have gUen careful consideration
to all phases of the propositions which
you hao made. Tho demands nro so
extraordinary that wo feel thero Is
little probability of reaching a settle
ment through the medium of confer
ences We, therefore! belloo the only
course to bo pursued Is to submit the
whole question to tho Federal Media
tion Board, nnd wo respectfully InUte
you to join us In making such an appli
cation. The leaders of tho men declined to ac
cept this proposition at present, declaring
their belief that more could bo accomplished
"by conferences.
In reply to tho proposition, A. B. Garret
son, spokesman for the four brotherhoods,
said that the men did not believe that Inter
vention of a third party was necessary,
and that they declined to Join In the request
for mediation.
"In my opinion," he said, "the men and
employers should get together before medi
ation steps are taken."
Mr. Lee, replying to Mr. Oarreston, Bald
that If he (Garreston) and his associations
declined to Join the railroads In application
for mediation, he (Lee) and his colleagues
would proceed at once to make such an
application.
TEXT KEPT SECRET.
At a meeting of the railroad presidents
at the Grand Central Terminal, a formal
Invitation for mediation was drawn up and
later It was dispatched to Judge Knapp,
chairman of the Federal Board of! Mediation
and Conciliation, by Mr. Lee, who refused
to give out the text of the communication,
saying it was just a formal document.
Baby Scalded to Death
SMYRNA, Del, Aug. 9. The daughter
of Olle Gait, IS months old, was scalded to
death when a washboller fell while the
baby's grandmother was lifting It from a
stove.
Evening LedgeY Circulation
, (For Six Months)
Daily Average for February, 104,115
Daily Average for March, 110,721
Daily Average for April, 117,310
Daily Average for May, 122,01 1
Daily Average for June, 125,808
Daily Average for July, 121,009
' The foregoing figures represent actual net paid circula
tion of this newspaper, eliminating all returned and free
copies.
Philadelphia, Wednesday, atjgtUST o, ioig.
.SUiJS9filS -s ' ' -'Lit n'
SIX DIE IN RAID
OF ZEPPELINS ON
BRITISH COASTS
Three Children, Two Women
and One Man Killed
by Airships
SEVENTEEN INJURED
LONDON, Aug. 9.
Threo children, two women and a man
wcro killed In tho Zeppelin raid oor tho
cast coast of England nnd tho southeast
ern coast of Scotland early today, accord
ing to a supplemental report Issued by tho
War Ofnco this evening. Sccnteen men,
women nnd children wcio Injured Ono
hundred high explosive bombs and 60 in
condlary bombs wcro dropped on many
coast towns Tho War Ofllco states tho Gor
mans object was apparently to Inflict In
discriminate damage.
Flying In tlta dafltrfow at tho rata of
nearly a mllo amlnute, a French air
squadron crossed the Vosges Mountains and
the Black Forest of Germany and bombarded
tho German town of Rothwoll, on tho Ncckar
Itlvor, It was officially nnnouncod today.
Tho stnrt waa made after dusk. Tho
distance of 200 miles was covered In threo
hours and 25 mlruitea. Tho bombardment
causod a great (Ire and Intonso explosions
Many other successful alr-bomblng enter
prises were carried out by tho French last
night. A number of nlr fights occurred on
tho Verdun front, where a German ncroplane
and a captho balloon were drstrojed
AMSTERDAM. Aug. " no Echo Do
Beige reports that Allied i. .men have suc
cessfully bombarded the German aerodrome
at Etterbeek, near Brussels.
YOUTH SHOOTS HIMSELF
AT DOCTOR'S RESIDENCE
Raymond Richards, 24, Fires Re
volver After Telling Physician
He Had Taken Poison
A young man, giving his name as Ray
mond Richards, shot and killed himself In
the home of Dr. L. G. Flannery, 2350 North
Broad street, today, while awaiting the ar
rival of an ambulapce to convey htm to a
hospital after swallowing poison tablets
Tho young man called at the physician's
ofllce shortly after 9 o'clock this morning
He told the maid he had swallowed poison
by mistake and desired Immediate medical
attention. Doctor Flannery tootf him Into
his private office and administered anti
dotes. The patient said he had mistaken the
tablets for a headache remedy. He ap
peared relieved by the treatment, but at
the physician's request remained on a couch
in the ofllce for two hours. Doctor Flan
nery suggested removal to a hospital. The
patient consented and Doctor Flannery went
to tho telephone to summon an ambulance.
The young man, who, previously, had ob
tained permission to use the washroom,
went upstairs.
While Doctor Flannery was telephoning ha
heard a thot. He ran to the washroom.
His patient was stretched on the Hoor. He
had shot himself through tho head with a
revolver, which lay beside him.
FOR CERTIFICATES
YACHTSMEN TRY
TO BEAT PLAGUE
ORDER, IS REPORT
Officials Hear of Blockade
Running Order All Ves
sels Stopped
JERSEY WILL RETALIATE
History of Infant Plague
Since Start of Epidemic
NEW cases in Philadelphia.. 10
Total cases in Philadelphia. 115
Deaths in Philadelphia 5
Total deaths in Philadelphia.. 27
New cases in New York 183
Total cases in New York 5519
Deaths in New York 57
Total deaths in New York 1251
New cases in Pennsylvania. .'. 8
New cases in New Jersey i 34
Exclusivo of Philadelphia. v
Tho Infantile paralysis quarantine was
extended today to all vessels coming Into
this port from Now York and Now Jersey.
This action naa taken after Dr. Samuel
G Dixon, Stato Commissioner of Health,
and Dr. II. D. Heller, State quarnntlne
odlcor, had heard that wealthy persons were
using tholr yachts to break through the
Fennsyhanla quarantine.
Doctor Dixon and Doctor Heller con
ferred last night, when the need of the
quarantine's extension was discussed This
morning Doctor Heller notified deputies at
Marcus Hook to hold up all essels, par
ticularly achts, and search them for chil
dren under 16 jears of age.
Immediately men wero assigned to the
lookout at the quarantine Btatlon and all
icssels, no matter from where they had
come or how owned, were forced to come
to a stop uhlle the quarantine officers, un
der Deputies Leon Gottschalk and J. W.
Whltehouse, made their lncstlgat!ons.
The officers wero Instructed to take no
child's word that he waa over 16. If the
chlkl looks younger nnd the officers have
reason to believe that he Is lying, he will
bo detained nt Marcus Hook until his pa
rents make affidavits to his age.
TOTAL DEATHS 2S.
Two new cases developed today, and two
deaths occurred, bringing the total number
of deaths to 28 The deaths were those
of Nathan Gatr, 8 years old, of 1532 Vine
Continued on rare Two, Column rue
HEAT CLAIMS FIVE
MORE VICTIMS HERE
Total Deaths 11 in 24 Hours.
Return to Normal Weather
Predicted
Temperatures
Today Yuttrday
Midnight 78 80
1 a. m 78 79
2 a. m ...78 79
3 a. m 77 78
4 a. m 77 78
5 a. m 78 77
6 a. m 78 77
7 a. m...,.,.. 78 79
8 a. m 79 80
9 a, m... 82 83
10 a.Tn ,. 82 85
lla.ro 83 88
Noon 84 90
1 p. m,,..,,.. 85 91
2 p. m...., .. 86 91
3 p. m 87 9i
Humidity, 8 a, m. 71 79
The fifth heat death today was that
of Marie Rod, 9 years old, of 1149 Fed
eral street, Camden. The child, who
was sick with tonsilitis, died this after
noon; at her home
Four more deaths wero caused by the
excessive humidity and heat this morning,
bringing the total number of victims up to
eleven in the last 24 hours. Two of the
dealhs occurred In Philadelphia. Tho other
two wero in Camden.
A return to normal of the humidity and
temperature; predated by the Weather
Bureau today, held out promise. Toward
noon northerly winds wero drying the at
mosphere, and It waa satd that much more
favorable weather would obtain tonight
and tomorrow All eastern Pennsylvania
EXTRA
CINCINNATI. ., .000000000
PHILLIESlstG. 00100000X
Schultz and Wlngo: Alexander nud Klllefer.
NATIONAL LEAGUE
ST. LOUIS, 1st B.... 3 OOOOOOO
NEW YORK O OOOOOOO
Soak aud Gonzales; Benton nud Eariden.
PITTSBURGH.... ..
BOSTON, 1st g
SARATOGA RACING RESULTS
rirst race, the Eensselaer, 2-yonr-olds, handicap, selling', $500
ndded, G furlongs Nashville, 110, Murphy, 5 to 2, oven, 2 to 5, won;
Blverdnlc, 124, Kelsey, 13 to 5, oven, 2 to 5, second; Old Miss, 121,
KirschbauiU) 4 to 1, 6 to 5, 1 to 2, third. Time, 1.15.
BRITISH PLANES ATTACK ZEPPELIN HANGARS
LONDON, Aug. 0. Zcppolin hangars near Buibsels weic altaclscd
this morning by a squadion. of Biitish aeroplanes, tho Admlialty an
nounced this afternoon. Tho aeroplanes hovered 200 feat nbovo the
neiodiomo and dropped many shells. Bursts of smoke wero seeu front
the sheds. Despite heavy gun fho all tho raiding 'planes xeturned
safely.
$25,000 FIRE IN CHALK
Flro early today damaged to tho extent of $25,000 tho plant of tho Southwark
Manufacturing Company nt tho foot of "Winslow street In Camden. Most of tho
damage was to material and machinery.
and the fire waa In tho building devoted to
to anroaci to tho plants of the Armstrong
Co., licorice makers Spontaneous combustion Is asslgpcd as tho causa of the Arc
WILLIS AND COX NAMED
COLUMBUS, O., Aug. D. Governor
mor Governor James M. Cox, Democrat, wero nominated by a big majority In, the
Ohio primaries yesterday, according to almost epmpleto returns received today.
In tho Republican race for United States Senate, Senator Myron T. Herrick over
whelming! defeated hla nearest competitor, Harry M. Daugherty, of Columbus.
Senator Atlee Pomcreno was victorious in tho Democratic senatorial flgbt.
NATIONAL BAKERS MAKE BREAD PRICE 10 CENTS
SALT LAKE CITY, 1 Utah, Aug. 9. The National Master Dakers' Association,
!n resolutions adopted here today, declared it was Its "sacred duty to the public"
to fix the "uniform and minimum" prlco of a loaf of bread at 10 cents.
INDEMNITY TALE FALSE, SAYS DANISH MINISTER
COPUNHAOUX, Aug. 9. Tho story of Indemnity paid to Germany is without
any foundation whntover. Foreign Minister Scavenlus declared today. (This mes
sage Is In answer to an Inquiry as to the truth of the report contained In a cable
messago to this country that Denmark had been forced on threat of a declaration
of war to pay Ucrmany ?22,500,000 as compensation for having allowed British
submirlnes to enter the Baltic, and that this accounted for the apparent desire
to sell the Danish West Indies to this country).
PAPAL SHIP SAILS FIRST TIME SINCE 1870
ROME, Aug. 9. For tho flrBt time since 1870, when the Pope lost Homo, a
papal ship today sails the high seas. Because of Its Initial mission, It is called
tho Nunclus. It was first chartered to carry Monslgnor Vassallo d Torregrossa
from Spain to Argentine. He is the new Apostolic Internuncio to the South Ameri
can Republic. Tho Vatican has officially notified the different governments of
the existence of Nunclus
BRITISH LINER BLOWN UP IN NORTH SEA
LONDON, Aug. 9. Tho Wilson liner Karo, which has been missing since last
week, was blown up In the North Sea by a warship, and it Is believed that all
on board perished.
WILSON SELECTS BOARD FOR MEXICAN PARLEY
WASHINGTON, Aug 9. It was announced at the White House this morn
ing that the President had decided upon the personnel of the American commis
sion to take up the Mexican situation, Tho names will be given out, It was stated,
as soon as the men appointed accept.
LAFAYETTE COLLEGE WILL GET BEQUEST OF $250,000
Lafayette College will receive a bequest of 1250,000, according to the will of
Albert N. Selp. probated at Washington. The college will not receive the benefit of
the bequest until the expiration of the lives of a son, a daughter and a grandson
of Mr. Beip, for whom three life estates are preserved out of the entire estate.
JUDGE BEN LINDSEY SUPPORTS PRESIDENT WILSON
DENVER, Col . Aug. 9. Judge Ben B. Lindsey, of the Juvenile Cc-urt, a lead
ing Progressive, today telegraphed his assurance of "cordial support" to President
Wilson in the coming campaign.
VILLISTAS POUNCE ON CARRANZISTA PARTY '
EL PASO, Tex., Aug. 9. General Agullar, commanding the escort of Car
ranzista troops, and a number of soldiers and passengers are reported killed in
an attack by Villlstas against a passenger train at Noria station, on the Duiango-
Torreon line yesterday, About half of t . .. n the band were killed,
Chihuahua City advices stated.
WOMEN SEND DENTIST TO BORDER TO AID GUARDSMEN
The Pennsylvania Women's Division for National Preparedness la sending a
dentist, wjth full equipment for field work, to the Pennsylvania troops on. the
border. This action is the result of a letter received from Captain B. C. Tush
man, of the staff of the Seventh Division, at El Paso. Captain Tilghman said 95 per
cent of the Pennsylvania troops at the border were in need of dental attention.
COUNTY GIVES PENSION TO WIDOW OF JAILER
The Camden County Board of Freeholders, at a meeting today In Camden court
house, voted a pension to Mrs. Isaac T. Hlbbs, wife of the Camden jailer mur
dered July 17 by Wilson T. Ashbrldge. The pension will amount to $26.25 a. month,
and will bo continued for 300 weeks. Provision was also made for two additional
jailors, making six in all. Authorisation for payment of the $500 reward in Ash
bridge's case was made, and the determination of the person to bo rewarded left
(o Prosecutor; Kxaft,
Contiani, 1816, st ini FcsUo Lzdoh Couritir.
0
1
3 0
0 1
Postponed Rain
FACTORY IN CAMDEN
Tho company malccs whltlns nnd chalK
mixing. Kor a time tho flro threatened
Corl: "W6rl3"ftnd "McAndrew & Forbes
FOR GOVERNOR OF OHIO
I'rarik U Willis, Republican, and for-
PRICE ONE CENT
NO WHITEWASH
IN JURY'S REPORT
ON VICE INQUIRY
Foreman Promises Presen
tation That Shall Go to
the Bottom
POLITICS TO BE IGNORED
Grand Jury Presentment
to Contain No Whitewash
GRAND Jury foreman declares:
No politics will play pnrt in In
vestigation. Presentment will contain no whiter
wash.
Jury unanimous in determination
to reach bottom of vico problem,.
Presentment will be presented to
Judge Rogers next "Friday.
"There positively will be no whitewash
ing In tho Grand Jury's presentment," de
clared Henry S Barnard, the schoolteacher
foreman of tlie body which Is engaged In
Investigation of alleged connhanco of police
and political leaders with proprietors of
disorderly reports.
Mr, Barnard mado his assertion In em
phatic tones as he was about to cnt6r tho
Grand Jury rooms at tho opening of to
day's session. "There will be 'no white
wash " he repented "All tho Grand Jurors
as well as myself are determined to go to
tho bottom of this Important problem. No
politics will piny any part In our present
presentation. I for ono havo always been
opposed to politics becoming a faotor In this
investigation It was I who fought for an
extension of time to continue our probe,"
Tho formal presentment of tho Grand
Jury will bo submitted to Judga 'Rogers In
Quarter Sessions Court next Friday at
11 o'clock. Tho examination of witnesses
Is expected to end with today's proceedings,
and most of the testimony taken during the
day was of a perfunctory nature.
Lieutenant 'William J. Jeffries, of the
Second and Christian streets police station,
the first witness, occupied the stand about
four minutes He denied knowledge of
gambling resorts within tho Fifth District
during tho period that ho was In charge of
tho Fifteenth and Locust streets station.
SALE OF CLUB CHARTERS.
Joseph Bprgoon. of 614 North Thirty-
sixth street, a McXIchol follower in tho
Twenty-fourth Ward, was also examined.
Ho was a. charter member of tho Havcrford
Club, at Fifth and Arch streets, which has
been mentioned In previous testimony as a
speakeasy, which enjoyed protection from
Walter Littleton, Organization leader of the
Sixth Ward. Borgoon told tho Grand Jury
that ho had been a city employe for 24 years
until a few months ago, when he was dis
missed from his position as an Inspector in
tho Bureau of Weights and Measures be
cause he refused to turn In for the Vara In
terests. Three years ago, Borgoon testified, he was
authorized to sell the charter of the Haver
ford Club to Littleton. The latter was to
pay $75, hut 350 of this sum is -still owing,
the witness declared. He denied the club
was a speakeasy, but said Its object was to
furnish recreation for members after their
working hours.
LIFTING OF THE "LID."
Lifting of the quarantine from 42 dis
orderly resorts located In the Eighth Po
lice District on the eve of the last primary a
election, It became known today, was or-'
dered by Captain Nicholas Kennyf The
order 9tas Issued direct to Lieutenant
Stinger, who until his suspension was sta
tioned at the Tenth and Buttonwood
EtreelK station This admission was made
by Lieutenant Stinger before the Grand
Jury adjourned last night. Captain Kenny
has been ordered to appear before the
Grand Jury today and explain why ths
order was Issued.
Mayor Smith. Director Wilson, Assistant
Director Davis and Charles Lee, deposed
head of the vice squad, will also be wit
nesses From the Mayor down to Lee, each
will be asked why the lid was removed from
the 12 resorts, many of which wero located
In the Fourteenth Ward.
Lieutenant Stinger has described himself
as an "order man," He frankly admitted
yesterday that the quarantine had been
lifted and for doing so gave the following
explanation;
"I am an order man. I take orders from
my superiors. I do what my superiors tell
me to do. I took off the quarantine at
midnight before the primary election on
order of Captain Kenny Later I told Cap
tain Kenny that conditions were getting bad.
At that time I had no knowledge that Gib
boney agents were collecting evidence,"
"Did you ever receive any orders from
John R. It Scott relating to vice resorts f
Lieutenant Stinger was asked
"No. I only took orders from my su
periors "
Another police lieutenant who calls him
self an "order man" is Lieutenant, Van
Horn, of the Sixth district, lie is one ol
the suspended police officials. He has told
the Grand Jury that he lifted the quar
antine and made raids only when instructed.
to do so by his superiors.
CHARLES B. SOUDEK DEAD
Plumbing Supply Manufacturer Diei
After Nervous Collapse
Charles B Souder, a former member ol ,
the Ford-Kendlg Company, ol this city.
distributors of plumbing- supplies, la dead
at bis home 2131 Seventeenth street H
was 61 years old.
Mr. Souder, who "wis jinJinlseot la
Masonic circles, suffered ft wrrous break
down several months ago, which, rMultad la
his death last night He w4 RMcsltar af
the Washington Lodge. V A. M. itosw
Chapter. It A. M . Mary Ooaimaniiery.
Knights Templar, and a Shriaer
Funeral servicw will E ooAductM t
the home next Friday afternoon at f ursfctik
by the Rev J Gordon, who la nln twa
oorarUr at the Bapttst TwnslA BroaA Sa
Brka s.t.rt Istermant wtt b wads t
West Ijturel HiU rematsry Mr, Suuiim i
tmrviv by a. wtf aaj na mm
21
CenUoofcl ea Fm Tw, Colon Os
1- --gjfelHMi-te !&t&JmM&-m
. Ad5iLi
