Thunder showers to-dajr; to-morrow
tut
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
prowmiy tair; continuing warm.
Hlchctt temperature yetterday, 01 j lawttt, yj.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on pan .
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 344.
NEW' YORK, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 9, 1916. cpvh,m, mi, an printin, puhumhp
PPMT In Greater New York, ( Klsewhere
UINCi UCiiN X Jersey City Hd Newark. I TWO CK.VTd.
3 MORE STREET
GAR COMPANIES
YIELD TO UNION
Second Ave., Queens and
Richmond Lines Accept
Strikers' Peace Terms.
.B. B. T. RAISES WAGES
FOR 10,000 WORKERS
Improved Labor Conditions
to Avert Walkout in
Brooklyn.
I SUBWAY AND '1 MKX
IN RUSH TO ORGANIZE
Demands 3rny Be Made on
Interhorouph and B. R.
T. in Two Weeks.
Acceptance of terma of aettlement
formulated by officiate of the Second
'Avenue line, the New York and Queens
County Railway and the Richmond
Light and Tower Company and rati-!
ficatlon of the aame terma by strlk-,
ing employee or tnese transit systems
yesterday ended the afreet car atrlke
In four of the clty'a five boroughs.
The strike menace In Brooklyn at
the fame time waa averted by the vol
untary concession by Col. Timothy S.
Williams, president of the Brooklyn
Rapid Transit Company, of tncreaaea
in wages and better working condl-1
flans fur the employees of that sya
ttm. Thwe developments following Mon
day's adjustment of differences be
tween officials and employees of the
New York Hallways Company and the
Third Avenue Hallway Company re
itored surface transportation facilities
to a point of efficiency they have not
known since July at, when the first
Jtrike was culled at a meeting of the
Third Avenue lines men.
lairrbnrnach and B. ft, T. Jfrst.
While the flame nf labor dissension
u been brought under control it is not
completely extinguished. Each aide yea.
terdiy further strengthened Its position.
Tin men of the unions, encouraged by
the quick conclusion of the battle with
their employers, started a campaign for
Mcrults. It was announced by the labor
leaders that they w 111 seek to enlist sup
porters for their unions among the erfl
rloyee of the Interborough and the
a R. T.
As soon ns they have enough men In
their newly organized locals the rush
ef applicants yesterday Indicated this
date will be within two weeks demands
"III be made upon the Interborough,
which controls the "L" and subway
lines In Manhattan, and the n. R. T..
which lias like powers In Brooklyn.
Thn demands practically will be. the
am ns those presented In the last
wek to the officials of the New York
Hilliraya Company, the Third Avenue
d the other llnvs that have yielded
to the unions.
Immediate acquiescence upon the
"me conditions accepted by the New
Wk Itallnays Company la expected
from Its patent company, the Inter
boroush. t'nlnn Leader ConMdent.
"We HMlclpate no difficulty there,"
Mil William n. Fitzgerald, general or-sa-.zir
of the union. "As the Interbor
r'iith Include In Ita .directorate practi
cally the a:ne men who govern the New
Tirk Hallways Company they hardly
can fall In follow the rame procedure.
Furthermore, the city Is a partner with
the in'erborough and we know we can
espfct fair dealing from New York."
None of the strike leaders would be
quoted about the forestalling of their da.
mands by the H. R. T.'s concessions. In
the letter that carried the concessions to
the men Col. Williams said :
I wish especially to thank our em
ployees for the demonstration of loy-
Ity which they have given during the
eunta of the past ten days, and to as
rure thrm of my very great apprecia
tion of the confidence which they have
manlfeMed In the sincerity of the com
pany to abolish any possible causes for
disfatlsfac'lon without resort to the
Interference of outsiders.
The allusion to "outsiders" waa taken
a personal reference by tha labor men,
probably because this same term had
l'n applied to them by directors of the
New Vork Railways Company Iff the ne
rvations Just concluded. They made It
pnarent yesterday they will not leave
th situation here until they have pre
Mnte their demands as a union to the
H T rnd have attained satisfaction
' wh .111 organization.
n. II, T, to Prostrate Demands,
That Hi M. R. T. Intends to frustrate
r.y presentation of demnnds from Its
mn as members of a union Is made clear
In these further passage.! from the letter
ofi-ol, v 1 1 la ma:
"In ordT that there may be continu
ous cooperation between the workers of
our system and In order that olllcers may
he Kept more closely in touch with !.
''.Inns of the men, we will propose a
modification of tho organization of the
Employees Heneflt Asaoclatlon whereby
'act, department in tha system will by
'ret ballot elect an additional number
of trueti-m, and the representative of
ui uepaitment .thus elected will form
"'minltt..,! in olcr any changes In con
cilium desired by the men of such de
Pariment "In case af any failure to agree aa to
tie proper method of adjusting dlffer
'nces between such committee and the
f'd nf tlm department the president of
the llrooldyn Rapid Transit Company
l give n hearing to both sldea and will
0'termlne the matter 111 a fair and lm
lrtla manner.
"1 do not expect that raeort to hit da
emon will ever be necessary. Inasmuch
the constitution and by-law of the
Continued as
DETECTIVES GUARD
THOME'S ESTATE
Wife Deceives Information
More Buildings at Country
Place Will Be Fired.
Poi(oHKpt. Aug. I. Receiving- In
formation that In addition to the barns
on the estate at Mlllbrook. which were
burned Saturday and Sunday night,
other tlrea wera to be ataned Mra. Oak
Jelgh Thome, wife of the New York
banker, to-day engaged detective to
work on the case. To-night detective
are postrd about all of the building at
Thornedale.
It wna reported Mn. Thome received
Information thit the aheep barna were
to be fired next. Mra. Thorne declined
to say what aha believed the motive of
the Incendlarlra could be.
Mr. Thorne, who la convalescing after
f?..prm,lon ,or PPendleltle. la at hla
Mlllbrook home. The Area have to un
nerved hint that he haa required the
services of a physician, tt waa stated
at Thorndale to-night that Mr. Thorne's
condition waa not aerloua.
To-day Mr. Thome aent to the Mill
brook fire department, which put out
the fires at hla place, a check for 11,000.
and to each of the three men who rea
cued hla hunting horaea he gave 1100
and a new ault of clothe.
5 DIE, 27 OVERCOME;
STORM COOLS CITY
Three Suicides Attributed to
Heat Lightning Strikes
Car, Hurt Passengers.
A brief but violent thunderstorm
cooled the atmosphere somewhat In the
cjty yesterday, but It brought havoc In
Its wake besides coming too late to pre
vent five deaths and twonty-seven pros
trations. There were also three suicides
and an attempted suicide that were at
tributed to the heat.
The humidity yesterday was less than
on the day before, being 17 at the high
eat point, but the temperature was more
tropical, rising to 91 degrees at z:J0
P. M.
Besides cracking flagpoles and win
dows In the metropolitan district Itrelf,
the electric outburst did great damage
within a few miles of Manhattan. At
Torrlngton, Conn., Frank Johnson, If,
years old, of Bridgeport, was ahocked to
death by a live wire knocked down by
lltTitnlng.
At Ridgewood a bolt atruck the trolley
pole of a De Kalb aenue car, ripping a
hole In the roof. Injuring several passen
gers and causing a panic. A number of
passengers were stunned momentarily,
and four women living In Ridgewood
were severely burned about tha head.
When swimming In Balatey's Pond,
Jamaica. Herbert Fay, 17. of 2 James
atreet. Cedar Manor, was either killed
by llgthnlng or shocked so that he
drowned. His companions. Albert Dey
and Franklin Pope, with difficulty made
their way ashore.
At the Battery two large flag poles
were split. One of them was the staff
at Battery Park, the other on top of the
Pouth Ferry Building at Whitehall and
State streets. The steeple of St. Ann's
Prtitestant Eplscopnl Church. Livingston
and Clinton streets, Rrooklyn, was so
badly damaged by n bolt that It will
probably be pulled down.
laaac Hamako, 41, of 18 Pitkin ave
nue, working In the Rrlghton Beach sub
way cut at Prospect Park, was blinded
ly a burst of lightning and fell across
the third rail. He was taken to the
Kings County Hospital in a serious con
dition. At White Plains, N. Y a moWe
company that Intended to blow up an old
house as part of a film drama had the
'Job suddenly taken off their hands by
the lightning. Arthur Mervll, an actor,
received a fracture of the right knee and
a carpenter waa cut on the scalp.
Joseph M. Dey, 22, employed on a
farm near Hlghtstown, N". J was killed
by a thunderbolt. One of a team of
horse which he waa driving Into a bsrn
at the moment waa also killed. Physi
cian who examined Day's body aald
there was not a mark on It to show that
hla death had been caused by lightning.
Two men who were removed to the
Bayonne Hospital prostrated by the heat
died there last night. They were Will
iam Dooley. 43, of 11 West Twenty
fourth atreet. and Joseph Napeakl, Is, of
41 East Seventeenth atreet, both of Bay
onne. At Haatlngs on the Hudson lightning
tore into tne residence of William Row
ley, a wealthy philanthropist, on War
burton avenue. A blnze started, but
firemen extinguished It In fifteen mln
utes. A more disastrous fire occurred
on the estate of Klllott C. Cowdln, ex
Rough Rider, at Mount Klsco, where a
large barn and fifty tons of hay were
destroyed. A barn at Chesterfield, X. J.,
owned by Harvey Davis, waa consumed
by flames, together with a wagon house
and wood pen near by.
Emanuel Woevsner, "I, of 574 East
141st street, hanged himself from a rafter
at 461 Jackson avenue, Tho Bronx. Mra.
Yetta Pearlman, 55, a widow, of 57 El-
drldge street, leaped from the roof of a
five story tenement at 41 Rsx street.
The body of Joseph Pot, la, was found
In his room at 412 East Seventy-fourth
treat, with gss escaping from an open
let. Joaeoh Miller. 47, a homeless la
borer, tried to kill himself by gashing his
throat with a razor In Battery Park.
Those who died from the heat were
James Dousey, 50, of 102 White street,
Brooklyn: Artoiph itaas, ,:, a hook
veener. 157 Harman street, and an un
Identified man, about 26 years old, who
expired on tne oeacn at uoney isiana.
gORRY UHTEBMYEB IS OUT.
Democrats Disappointed Because
He Ca't nmm for genate.
Ai.sant, Aug. . Ktate Chairman
Edwin K. Harris of the Democratic
State committee said to-night:
..a - . Mutiv nAmru.)1.!! thrniiffhnllt
the State will be disappointed because
Samuel Untermyar will not enter the
n.n,ncratlc nrlmarles aa a candidate
for United Btates Senator.
"I am informed tnat Mr. untepmyer
has been convinced by his friend and
physician that his health would not
K.HMi mm . iniir cAjntialffn anil th.it
ha has made It known that he will not
be a candidate ror uniieo maws ron
ator." Steam Yaeht Ceador Has Mishap.
Boston. Aug. . The steam yacht
Condor of New York struck a reef off
Bailey's Island, Salem Harbor, In a fog
last nlht and began leaking badly. She
floated with the tide and went to Marble,
head, whenoe she was towed here to-day
far raseUra. Tho rasaU Is said U be the
area arts- est W. A WIMtjr s( Mew Yet.
GIVES UP ALL TO
SPARE DAUGHTER
W. K. Martin Sacrifices Busi
ness and Home to Keep Off
Taint of Scandal.
PATHETIC PLEA IN COURT
Lawyer Asks Leniency for
Man Who Barred His
Divorced Wife.
Rather than let hla divorced wife, Mra.
Etta Hamilton Morris, see their fifteen-year-old
daughter Marjorle for one Hour
on July $, Hdwln . Martin, head of the
firm of O. W. Martin Co. and a di
rector In Austin, Nichols Co.. Bold hla
nouse at White Plains, hla autos and
horses, abandoned hit varied business In
terests and disappeared, according to a
statement made to justice grane in
Brooklyn yeaterday by Martin's counsel,
Franklin Taylor.
The matter came up on a motion to
punish Martin for contempt In falling to
obey an order signed by Justice Crane on
June 28 seven yeara after the divorce
suit In which Martin named four co
respondents, two of them physicians, and
mentioned three others (one a profes
sional ball player), whose offences he
said he had condoned.
The former Mra. Martin, who Is the wife
of Frank U. Morrla of 17 Revere place.
Brooklyn, one of the corespondents, and
daughter nf the Rev. Jay Benson Hamil
ton of Trinity M. E. Church, Manhattan,
complained that she found the House at
Wlilte Plains closed when she called
with the court order on July G, and asked
that her former husbsnd be compelled
to produce their daughter or go to Jail.
For Daughter's Welfare,
The motion to punish was oppceed by
Mr. Taylor, who took the ground that his
client, In cutting adrift from all old tiro,
was moved by conscience and a deep pa
ternal regard for the welfare of tils
daughter. In this he waa bome ouf' by
Mrs. Morris's father and a sister, Maud
Hamilton.
"Where Mr. Martin has gone I do not
know," Mr. Taylor trld the court, "and
I aubmlt that in no circumstances should
Mrs. Morrla be permitted to know, for
the reason that It would simply result in
following Marjorle with the eondal of
her mother's past, thereby handicapping
her moral welfare and opportunities tor
social advancement and decent mar
riage." Mr. Martin was distressed when told
of the court order cn June 21 and sought
to have It modified. Falling that, ho
disappeared, taking with him his second
wife, Mattle Hungerford Martin: Mar
jorle and a daughter by the second mar
riage. Oatraelaed by Other Girls.
Dr. Hamilton and Miss Hamilton, who
both express regret at having been In
strumental In causing Mr. Martin to
leave home and friends, advance the be
lief that "his whole life Is wrapped up
In saving Marjorle from herself," and
state that they would never have made
affidavits In favor of the petitioner could
they have foreseen resulta.
"I believe he would give up all he has
and g3 anywhere In the world." Mrs.
Hamilton said In an affidavit, "to pre
serve her (Marjorle) and set her on her
feet ns a pure and noble Christian
woman."
The Martin divorce suit In the summer
of 1909 caused a stir In Brooklyn's church
nnd social circles. The papers submitted
to Justice Crane yesterday Indicate that
Martin, following the divorce, moved to
White rialns from Lafayette avenue,
Brooklyn, with a view to getting away
from old surroundings, but that the old
troubles were brought back to him
through Marjorle when many of the
younger set of White Plains ostracized
her.
FIZZ LACKING FOR SODAS.
Fountains May Be Stilled Because
of Carboale Gas ghortasre.
Dispensers of soda wnter along Broad
way last night wera complaining of a
shortage of carbonic gas, which may
cause many of them to close up shop in
a day or two. This situation was found
to obtain only among the small dealeis,
Manager Uhler of the dray Drug
Store, at Broadway and Forty-third
street, said that on Tuesday he notified
the General Carbonic Company that he
waa running out of the gas that makes
the sodas lis. They promised to send
him a new supply at once, he said, but
It didn't come, and he was told later
there wss a shortage and also a strike
among the employees of the plant. Last
night Mr. Uhler contemplated an early
shutting up of his soda fountain.
At the Brooklyn plant of the deneral
Carbonic Company It was said that the
hot weather had made the company hard
prt sed to turn out enough tubes of gas
to fill the orders. At the Manhattan
plant It waa said that ten employee had
been on strike for two weeks.
LET BABIES XUB ABOUT NAKED.
Child llsaleae Expert Says Its
( More lleolthfal In Hummer.
Dr. B. Josephine Baker, director of the
Hurenu of Child Hygiene, yeaterday put
the ofllclal stamp of approval on per
mitting babies to run about the house
naked during the hot summer months.
A letter was received by Dr. Baker
In which norne well meaning person com
plained that a mother on the Rast Hide
permitted her children, 1 and .1 years
old, to run naked about the house and
ever In the halls.
"There's a sensible mother for yon,"
exclaimed Dr. Baker. "In this hot
weather little children should be per
mitted to run sround stark naked, It Is
a perfectly natural way for them to live
.rid they win Keep murn cooler.
I)r linker also recommended sponge
baths twice a day, plenty of cool water
and pure milk and no solid food for the
bablek.
BATH GARB BILL VETOED.
Mayor Mltrhel Saya Penal Cade la
Sufficient.
Mayor Mltchel yesterday vetoed the
proposed ordinance forbidding persons
to walk or ride through the streets in
bathing suits unites these are covered
with an outer garment.
"If bathing suits do not property cover
the persons that wear them, sections of
the penal law are available for tne
prosecution of the offenders," the
Mayor wrote.
He said the proposed ordinance would
require persons to cheek their outer
garawnta at the beaoh, and would also
tend to earaMlsh a monopoly m the
GOV. HUGHES ADDS A PUNCH.
'THE Republican candidate for the Presidency starts his Western trip
with a talk to the makers of automobiles in Henry Ford's own
town.
HHHIfsHHH
BSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSsaBssssssWasssssrTa.' wBBBBBBBBBJBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBJ
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbBitsbt! vBsssssssjisftr'essssBssssssssssssssPBR
r'M- IHaBTMSSSSSSSSSSSSSI
WkWLjKLI IsssssssssiTssssssssPsSiaSS'ttf
r'V'issasssssssB
&4L' IsBBBBBBBBBBBBBT' 'v' SSSSSSSSSSSsF "OOaaSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSsI
ft i: W?V-jTBBBBBBBBr7i 'SSSSSSSSSSSSsi 'JyBaBBBBBBBBBSBBBBlCHH
t.l 42 Vvi'assWesssssssssssssssssssH
! 1 K Jsssssssssssssssssf . , bbbbbbbbbbT ' . 'V"Wtf sssssUasslssssssfV'assssssssI
ropmcnt by undrrnuod U underwood.
PHILA. NEWSPAPERS
FORCED TO CUT SIZE
Fum in e in News Print Causes
Publishers to A?ree to
Curtailment.
Philadelphia, Aug. . As a result of
a eerles of meetings of the newspaper
publishers of Philadelphia, called to con
sider the serious situation confronting
them caused by what are practically
famine conditions In the news print paper
market, the following agreement was
unanimously reached:
"All morning, evening and Sunday
newspapers will Immediately reduce the'
size of thejr Issues to the extent of a
total In excess of eighty pagm weekly.
That beginning September 1 next the
acreptlrp from wholesale purchasers of
unsold copies of all inorninir, evening
and Sunday newspapers will be discon
tinued." Heretofore the privilege has
been granted to newsnoys, news'tands,
news agents and carriers.
At this meeting of publishers, facts
and figure wern submitted showing
that the mills were unable to supply the
enormous Increased demand for white
paper. So serious has the situation be
come, it was pointed out, unless drastic
reduction of consumption Is enforced,
some papers throughout the country will
bo confronted with possible suspension of
publication.
The newspapers party to the foregoing
agreement, which constitute the entire
local pre"-, of recognized circulation, are
as follows: Krrnfnp I.rdprr, l'ublic
I.nlper. the Kirniny lluUctin, the t't rii
Inp Trlrpritph, the .Vorfh Amrrlcan, the
Itrcoul, the rqufrrr and the I'rrss.
NO "COTTON" PAPER YET.
(iihernnent Expert gays
Flax
gtratv la Brlnsr Tested.
Washinoto.:, Aug. . Little hope of
obtaining cheaper paper through the uie
of cotton stalks as raw material was
held out to-day by W. A. Taylor, chief
of the bureau of plant Industry of the
Department of Agriculture, which linn
been making tests for three years,
"There Is no (picbtlon," Mr. Taylor
said, "that good paper can be made from
cotton stalks, but the cost of assembling
cotton stalk.i nt a Klven point near a
proposed mill, because of the tntnsiwrtn
tlon, us well ns the dlfllculty of getting
together enormous quantities of the
stalks, must be considered. The same
situation applies to corn stalks.
"Very good paper can be made from
corn stalks. The labor nnd transporta
tion cost of bringing the material to
gether In sufficient volume to operate a
mill has, heretofore, prevented com
mercial development.
"Wo ore working hard on, the Iden of
making paper from straw, especially the
flax straw of the Northwest. This Is
assembled In large quantities before the
threshing of the seed, and pulp from Max
straw In vnluable for the heavier papers
and boards "
10 CENT BREAD LOAF URGED.
Demanded by Kff Irlrnry, Conven
tion of Bakers la Told.
Halt I,kk City, Utah, Aug, A
five rent loaf of bread Is an economic
waste In the opinion of C. N. Power of
Pueblo. Col., who to-day nddreswed the
convention here of the Master linkers of
I the Vnlted States. He discussed the
I "ten cent loaf and why,"
KMIclency, declared Mr. Power, de
manded the baking of ten cent loaves
rather than tho five cent size. He es
timated the coat of balchiK l.ft(ln loaves
' of bread of Dm Ave cent ylze Is ?3.."fi
1 more than the rest of baiting the rame
flour Into too ten cent loaves.
IMPORTANT NOTICE!
Because of the grave shortage of paper in this
country, copies of The Sun, morning and Sunday, and
of The Evening Sun, are now non-returnable from
newsdealers, along with the Times, the World, the
American and the Tribune.
To make sure of getting your copy of The Sun,
every morning, every evening and every Sunday, do not
fail to leave a standing order with your newsdealer.
14,000 HEAR HUGHES
IN CHICAGO SPEECH
500 Turned Away at Coli
senm, Where Candidate
Pledges Efficiency.
Chicago, Aug. t. Facing a crowd of
14,000 persons to-night In the Coliseum,
the hall In wh(ch he waa nominated for
the Presidency less than two months ago,
Charles E. Hughes declared that If he la
elected the mere fact that any man haa
been active In polttlca will have no In
fluence In tho selection of public officials.
He preached straight Americanism, ef
ficiency and preparedness and assailed
the Democratic "pork barrel," the Ad
ministration's treatment of Mexico and
the existing tariff law In even more em
phatic and telling terms than In Detroit
last night. The speech to-night abounded
In epigram and metaphor.
Chicago to nil appearances .had set
out to break all records of this or any
other campaign. The crowd was the
largest which ever packed the Coliseum,
scene of many memorable gatherings, so
Chlcagoans declared. Men clung to per
ilous positions on the rafters for more
than on hour, and 500 persons who
sought admission were turned away.
The audience cheered him for five
minutes before he spoke. A brass band
perched In a loft nt the far end of the
hull plaed three stanzas of "The Star
Spangled Banner" during the demonstra
tlon, but the music was lost In the vol
ume of other sound. After his address
Mr. Hughes departed for St. Paul.
Will Rnd Pork Barrel.
"I have no respect for the Idea that
because democratic government Is a gov
ernment of the people, by the people and
for the people It Is a government of the
foollh, for the foolish and by the foi
Ish" was one nf the sentences which Im
pressed the crowd. There was pro
longed cheering too when the nominee
shouted :
"if anything In this campaign Is real
It Is the question whether we want words
or artlon 1
A'snlllng the rivers and harbor bill
aa a measure authorizing a wanton
waste of money nnd advocating the In
troduction of a practical, businesslike
liudcet M-stein Mr, liugnea saiu:
"1 propoao If elected' that wo shall stop
this pork business, we won t nave any
more or these kiss me and I'll kiss you
unurourlntlons."
A reference to Villa aa "that eminent
Kundny school echolar" brought peals of
laughter and amllea mingled with the
applause when the nominee shouted:
"You couldn't get a decent protectionist
measure out of n Democratic Congress
xectlonnlly organized any more thun you
could get a revival sermon out of a dis
orderly house.
I lllsraasea Hla PToralnn tlon.
I Mayor Thompson called the great
, meeting to order and Senator Lawrence
, Y. Sherman Introduced the nominee. Mr.
Hughes spoke In part as follows:
"I come to this hall with peculiar
emotions, Hero k little lesa than two
j mouths ago the Republican National
Contention nominated ine for the office.
of President of the I'nlted States. 1 had
1 not sought that nomination. It meant
I hut one thlrur A summons to an obvious
obligation, sr.it as I was while on the
bench 100 per cent, a Judge, 1 then be
came 100 per cent, a candidate.
"I desired, If the American people so
willed, to dedicate myself to the cause
of American government, not for par-
Cotifltuied on Tftiid Pugr,
BREMEN BELIEVED
NEAR NEW LONDON
Mysterious Motor Boat and
German Cltifcns Wait Un
dersea Freighter.
INQUIRY FOR WHARFAGE
Two Submarines Reported Off
Maine Coast Appear to
Have Vanished.
Nw London, Conn., Aug. 8. Belief
is growing that the Herman submarine
commerce carrier Bremen Is making for
this port with a cargo simitar to that
her sister ship, Deutarhland, rarrled
Into Baltimore.
Paul Hllken, eon of Henry O. Illlkan,
American agent of the Ocean Naviga
tion Company: F. Lewis and F. Hlnch,
the last supposed to be the captain of
the Interned German freighter Neckar,
who left the Mohican 'Hotel here yester
day, have not returned, but reports have
been brought In of a mysterious motor
boat which Is patrolling the waters be
tween here and the !ong Island shore.
It Is believed the three men are wait
ing for the arrival of the undersea
freighter. In order to guide her into New
Iyondon harbor.
It Is reported from Baltimore that
quantities of nickel and rubber to form
the Bremen's cargo on her outbound
trip are being shipped to this port. Noth
ing of the sort has arrived yet Activi
ties of certain unnamed person In try
ing to find wharf accommodations for
the erection of a warehouse strengthen
the belief that the Bremen Is on the way
here.
Portland, Me., Aug. . Nothing fur
ther hna been seen hero of the two sub
marines reported to be off Machlas,
Cross Island, yestcrdoy. All alone the
Maine coast lookouts have kept watcn
for the reappearance of the submarines,
but a haze off shore made their task
extremely difficult.
The Cross Island lookout estimated
the speed of the boats to be about 12
knots, which would have brought them
to this port early to-day. To rfeach
Boston would have required eight or ten
hours more. The boats could travel
down the coast well within the three
mile limit and shipping men were puz
zled to know why, it they are the
Bremen and a consort, they did not
come to the surface and make their way
to port with colors flying.
Baltimorsj, Aug. . Henry a. Hllken,
American agent of the Ocean Navigation
Company, was shown a despatch al
leged to have been printed In the Berlin
Taatblatt reporting that the Bremen
had sunk following an accident to her
machinery.
"I have no Information as to whether
It Is true," he said.
I. W. W. BOMBS FOB KANSAS.
Fires and Raptoalons Follow Arrest
of Organisation sympathisers.
Salina, Kan., Aug. 8. Disastrous
fires and bomb exploHlune, believed to be
part of the retaliatory measures adopted
by the I. W. W. because of the hi rest
of many of their organizers, continue to
cause thousands of dollars loss to west
ern Kansas farmers.
Three threshing machine separators
were destroyed by bomb explosions near
St. John lost week. The bombs were
placed in the machines at night, and ex
ploded when work was started next
morning.
Two stacks of wheat and a threshing
outfit were destroyed near Dodge City.
A farmer near lllasco lost a $4,000 barn
by fire of myeterlous origin In the
same vicinity John Butler'n barn, con
tntninc 5,000 bushels of wheat, com und
oats, was burned.
Thrrn haa also been trouble In South
Dakota.
N, Y. BOY DIES FOR ALLIES.
Henry A. Colt Was Fatally Wossd-
ed In Rattle In France.
. Henry Augustus Colt of this city, who
nan been lighting In Franco with
Princess Patricia's Kegiment, Canadian
Volunteers, died on Monday from wounds
received In battle, according to a cable
received here yesterday.
Mr. f'olt was the son of .locejih How-
land rott, presiucnt of Moffat, Yard A
Co, ami was 56 years old. He wna
educated at St. Paul's School nnd Har
vard University, nnd before his enlist
ment was employed by the Long Island
unllrnad.
He enlisted inst December, went to
Kugland In April, and reached the front
Inte In .Tune. A few days after his nr
rival there he was badly Injured In both
legs. His parents were with him when
he died.
APFAH CASE APPEALED.
(Serman Government F.xecates
Hnud for 2, 000,(100.
Niisfoi.k, Va., Auf. 8 -Counsel for
the Herman flovrrnment In the case of
the prize ship Appam, which wan
awar-Jed to her British owners by a re
cent dtelslon of Federal Judge Waddlll,
to-day filed formal petition for appeal to
the Supreme Court, which was allowed.
.A idiprsedeaa bond for 12,000.000 was
given, sltturd by Lieut, Hans Berg, the
Prize master who brought the vessel In,
and L. M. von Schilling'. Herman Consul,
It was furnished by five American bond
ing companies, who divided a premflim
of f.20,000.
THIEF CHASE IN FIFTH AVE.
Pnllreninn Xaba Two Who Grabbed
Jewels in Trrla Shop.
When activity In Fifth avenue was at
Its height yesterday afternoon, three men
darted out of the Jewelry shop of M.
Tecla A Co., at 11 Fifth avenue, and
ran toward Thirty-sixth street. Behind
them ared a fourth man Arsene .1. Van
Kxen, manager of the store hatleas and
shouting "Stop, thief I';
At Thirty-fourth atreet Traffic Police
man llnrfat caught two panting Indi
viduals who said they were James
Nolan, 2, and John 8. King, SO, hut
each of whom refuted to give hla ad
dress. They, with another, had seized six dia
mond rings, valued at 15,000, from a tray
In Tecla's. The five other rings were
found In Nolan's pocket, and both men
were locked up charged with grand
larceny, Tha third man eaeapeel.
BRIT Am TO EXTRADITE
DEKAY IN ARMS FRAUD
American to Bo Turned Over
to France if His Ap
peal Fails.
London. Aug. 9. John Wesley tVkay
of .New York was arraigned again In
Bow street police court yesterday for a
hearing on tho demand of the French
Uovernment for his extradition on a
charge of fraud.
The Magistrate ruled that the evidence
showed that there was proper caiKe for
trial, and he accordingly committed tne
prisoner for extradition. Tho attorneys
for Dekay filed a notice of appeal.
In 1915 Dekay was accused by the
French Government of having; partici
pated, with F. S. Charller. a Frenchman,
In getting $63,000 from Belgium on false
pretonco In the sale of rifles and am
munition which Dekay had bought for
the Mexican Government, but which Bel-
glum desired for use in the Congo.
The money was advanced, according
to the charge, with the understanding
that It was to be refunded If Dekay and
nis associates failed to deliver the muni
tions, which were In Spain. It Is al
leged that tho orm.n were not delivered
and that the money was not returned.
Dekay's defence was that tho money
was tied up In Mexican securities for
which there waa no market.
Dekay was for many years a promi
nent figure In Mexico. In January.
1914. he sold the Mexican National
Packing Comnsny. which ho had or
ganized, to the lluerta Uovernment for
70,000,000. In Mnrch of the some vear
he tiought for the lluerta administration
$7,000,000 worth of arms. Including 240
Creusot cannon.
FRENCH GAIN ON
THREE MILE FRONT
After Decisive Action They
Recapture Part of
Tliiaiiinont.
I-ONiiov, Aug. S. A Joint attack by
the Ilrltlsh and French forces along the
Itlver Somme to-day was productive of
a considerable gain of territory. It was
announced to-night.
Operating on the rlitht of tho Ilrltlsh.
the French captured a small wood and
a trench, making the conquest In this
territory In two days the whole of a line
of Ocrman trenches on a front of nearly
four miles, to a depth of from 300 to COO
yards.
On the Verdun front the French held
to the village of Fleury In the face of de
termined attacks. They lost a part of
the Thlaumont work In the morning,
only to regain It at night. Near
Vaux. Paris reports the enpture of one
line of trenches, nnd at some points two
lines. In all 200 unwounded prisoners.
Including six olllcers, and six machine
Kilns were captured by the French.
The Ilrltlsh, operating with the French
on the Somme, achieved an advance of
about 400 yards southwest of Quille
mont, the War Office asserts. Fighting
continues to-niKht, but the gains ap
peared to be secure, the centre of the
conflict having moved to the vicinity of
Gulltemont station.
Northwest of Pozleres, where the Aus
tralians, sunnorted by other Ilrltlsh
troops, have been holding the ground
recently wrested from the Germans, the
stubborn counter atlacKs cniuinueii. un
deterred by the failure of five Infantry
advances on the day previous, the Ger
mans launched four new attacks. Three
of these failed completely, the British
War Office asserts, but the lost pnlned
about fifty yards of 'trenches. Liquid
fire was used by the Germans.
Ueslde tliesi' point" f Infantry ac
tlvltv there were artillery combats nt
Luiigui-tul. Ukli Wood, l'nrleri'8. Mn-
metz. I-ooh nnd Glenchy, all on tlm Milt
Ish front. The tiring nt the first three
points was characterized as "heavy
he ofllclal reiort.
In
BERLIN SHY ON EARLY PEACE.
Lays
In Army Hopplles for
ttai
Winter Campaign.
Rrnt.lN. Aug, 8. Though the feeling
exist- in ome quarters that peace nmyu ,UV,IB !,eM captured In two davs.
com.- before Christmas with the defeat. T. of (jnruia bridgehead Is
of the Anglo-French offensive. Germany ndinltted In an Austrian official state
In miking every preparation for another ( ,,., revived to-night. A withdrawal
wlntei campnlgn. .... to the eastern It-onzo, tlm statement
In large storeitouses in iierim inou-
snniis of army overcoat", fresh from the
manufacturers, are being packed away,
ready for shipment to the front. Sev
ernl thom-nnd auto trucks are also being
got re-idy for winter fighting.
.
,.r,nT.nT,n
GASOLENE TRUST SUSPECTED,
.
Federnl Inqnlry IN nils an . parent
Lark nf Competition.
Washinoton, Aug. 8. TIip Federn'
,..,,,. tnul, ,n lint, pnmnl.lnil Ita
final report on the causes for the rise In
gasolene prices, and probably will send 1 ol'tmn Is Implngli g upon the consld
it to 'Congress next week. 'erable town of '1 ymilenltsa, on the Itlver
This tlnal report. It was said, will go Vor',nr ,
Into details r.'gat.lliig an apparent lack I ,'"' Teutons mo retreating every
or silfllclent competition between com- wl""' m l,lls frnl"' 'he 'nr office In
paules producing gasolene. No recom- Pelrograd asserts, ami prisoners and
meiidatlons for the prosecution of nuylw!lr material In great oliiine nre poiir
coucerns nre expected, None has ben 111,0 Russian hands. Gnat explo.
mnde to the Department of Justice. beard behind the Ausiro-German
It Is understood, however, that Con-1 Hues led to the ai Hiiniptloii thnt bridges
gress will bo told that the remedy for and supplies were being destrojed.
present conditions lies in some son or
regulation of gasolene manufacture to
Insure real competition, or ns n last re
sort, In the creation of Government ma
chinery authorised to fix prices.
STABBED BY GANGSTERS.
Prison Keeper's Ann Waylaid by
Ills Former Companions.
Recauso his father had ordered him to
keep away from gangsters In his own
street nnd the next William Jackson, Jr..
Ui years old, of H35 West Fifty-third
street, was waylaid by his former com
panions last night and stabbed four
times.
During the last month a campaign has
been waged between the gang of Fifty
third street and that of Fifty-second
street, according to residents of the
block. Jackson's father, who la a keeper
In the West Hide prison, ordored William
to atay off the block when he played.
As a result both factions have been lay
ing for him.
Last evening young Jackson appeared
In Fifty-second street. The gang thero
attacked htm. He ran to Fifty-third
street and found the second gang wait
ing. Roth sides pitched In and he was
badly beaten and cut He was taken to
rolycttalo Ut Ital
RUSSIANS AND
ITALIANS BREAK
AOSTRIANLINES
Gorizia JJridgchcad, Key to
Triest, and 2 Mountain
Defences Seized.
GREAT STR0NGII0LD, "
NOW UNDER TIRE
Czar's Forces in Gnlicin.
by Encircling Stan is an
Menace Lemberg.
ORDER TO EVACUATE "
CITY IS REPORTED
Teutons Retreat in This
Region and Many Prison
era Are Taken.
I.o.ndok, Aub. 8. Smashing blows
have been delivered on both fronts of
the harried Austrian armies, ofllclal
reports received hero declare. Italy
haa developed a sudden resurgence
and has finally taken the Gorizia
bridgehead, key to an advanco on
Triest, toward which sho has been
reachlnc for a year. Important de
fences of Gorizia have been taken and
tho town Itself is under fire.
On tho eastern front notablo ad
vanco Is recorded In Gallcia, where the
Russian under Gen. Letchltzky have
captured two towns and many vil
lanes and seriously mcnaco Stnnlsuvu
and with It Lcmbcrff, tho Gallcian
capital, once beforo In Russian hands.
Lemberjr. It Is unofficially reported,
has been ordered evacuated.
Military experts believe that the Aus.
trlan forces along the Italian front were
weakened to bolster up the defence
against Russia, and that Italy seized the
chance to launch an offensive of great
magnitude, the force of which Is only be
ginning to be felt.
Cadorna's Greatest Succeaa.
The Italian success Is hailed ns the
greatest victory for Gen. Cadorna's men
since the opening of tho Austro-Itallan
war. Resides tho Gorizia bridgehead,
where the Austrian havo defended them
selves with the greatest etubbornnes,
Monte Sabotino and Monte St. Mlchele,
scenes of almost equally severe fighting,
have fallen before tho new Italian or
fenslvo on tha lsonzo.
The Italian artillery now shelling the
town of Gorizia Is driving the Austrians
out of house Just west of tho city. It
was ottlclaiiy announced. The fall of
the fortress In considered by Italian mili
tary ofllcers to bo Imminent.
Rehlnd the brldeghead lies the Aus.
trlun fortress of Gorizi.i, which has held
up the Italian advance toward Triest
since the beginning of the war. With
the' bridgehead In their hands and Monti)
Sabotino and Monte S.m MUliele taken
the Italians now seriously threaten tlie
great Austrian stronghold,
Monte San Mlchele itf-elf was one of
the stronire.it Austrian positions on the
lsonzo. l-'rom trenches of concrete and
armored steel Austrian machine guns tor
montlin havo beaten off Italian iittaclis
on S.in Michel.', Intllotlnc frightful
losses on tho attacking forces.
More Than 10,000 Prisoners.
Prisoners ar si 111 surrendering bv the
thnuandi ns a rexult of the Italian op
eratloni, says n Central News despatch.
Mnrn flinn 10 0110 tiplunn.ir, t.,.. r,mr,. ,1
MinKi Was nece,in to avoid
seveie
losui to the ili'ft'iulciM of the bridge
head beciiise of the deienito ntt.icKs
made bv the Itall.ins.
The Russian advance south of the
llnlfbter lias embraced thn towns nf
Nlznliiw. tlflc'ii miles northeast nf the
Important railway centri. or Staiilslau
land Tlumach, clKlm,-.. inlU east on tha
j ritaiilKlau-lluczucz railway, together with
t lie villages or iirutyrnuv, I'rilaKnlchr,
Nadworna, twenty miles south of ,Stan
ihlau. t'li.irnolucze, Krnvotulu, Nove nnd
Ottynl.i. fifteen miles southeast. Tho
Russian, there have almost encircled
1 HtanlHlati. The left tlnnk of the advan
Teuton llrslHtHiicr Culls.
The advance J being made by Gen.
Letchltzky, nho ueek ago In spite nf
flooded rivers and heavy road, began
anew hl hammering of the right flank
of Gen. Count von Hothinei's army, nnd
by h cavalry attack took Kze'rznny.
Tlumach is ten miles further to tlie
northwest.
There has been little news from this
section, but It Is apparent that Gen.
letchltzky has been follow lug up his
success along a front of ten miles south
of the Dniester In the face of German
reelnforecmentH sent to stiffen Von lloth
mer's right wing.
The taking of Tlumach cut the roll
way between Stanlslau, Tysmlenlsta and
Ruczacz, which him been utilized by tha
Austrians for supplying the southern en
of Von Rotliniei'a fiont, and gives tha
Russians another direct avenue of at
tack on Htanlslau.
The Austrian tried to offset the force)
of Letchltzky's asnault by tierce counter
attacks along the Koroplco River north
ward, but without avail. These were re
pulsed with severe losses. At the same
time a Russian offtMisUe la being pushed
against Von Rothmer's left Hunk, south
of Rrody.
A group of villages centring about
E aloes, an the headwaters Vt the Herein,
has aeaa aaaturatf, and each diy'i devais
i
I
il
n
&S.vv.i
