WEATHER
??STlBMS TC I'U Tl'MOHKon.
rH<?i?
rilXM.r 1** TIMI*KK\Tt RK.
rii.HT Miinn iHMis,
lUtOMIM. \ vKlUM.K.
Vull Report ea Ta?e 1?.
Jtoroltrrk
^?~^^ JC. m ft f * rs 1 ./
{Mtome
CIRCULATION
Over 100,000 Daily
Net Paid, xNon-Returnable
First to Last?the Truth: News ? Editorials - Advertisements
Vol.
IAWI No. 25,469.
Iloprrlahl l?l??
Th* 1'rlliiin* X.an 1
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST f), 191(>.
OOO
/*a_r_l / 'L*VT la **>?* ?'"'*' n,jr- v"**rk*
0>L ILxll Jrraey City and BflBflkfl
Italians Break Austrian Line on Isonzo;
Teutons Yield on Dniester and Somme
LAST CAR STRKES END;
UNION BUSY ORGANIZING
3 Lines and Employes
Accept Terms?
Service Normal.
RAISE PROMISED
B. R. T. MEN
Interborough to Get De?
mands- -Leatders See No
Further Trouble.
All the cr.r IhMI in the greater city
which I Ud bf strikes have
mce*p', s of apreement -with
their employes, arranged by Mayor
Mitchel aad I beat 8. Straus and rati
fied by the officials of the NfW York
C:ty Ra Iwayi Company and the
Third Avenue system, in Manhattan,
The Bror.x and Westchester. The
Second Avenue company, the New
York k Qoeeni road and the Staten
hcads agreed to the
{.ettlement yeaterday morning. Con
sequently, normal service has been
ed on all.
- lident Timothy S. Williams of
the B. R T. ia1 lt**~* ofT a
far as his
com| addressed
a letu-r to bil smployei yester?
day, rrornisinp a sui^r^fial in-1
crease in pa.\ hy the end of the |
month. I!. 'hem cf a pro-|
their own organiza?
tion, thc Mutua! Henefit Association,
wherei.y tht- company would treat
with an empi.iyes' committee on
pr.pvances. Also, CototneJ Wiiliam3
announced that his superintendents
working out new schedules
which would give the men "shorter
iwil .'.-."
Ornanizera Continue Activity.
William D. Mahon, president of the
Ajaalgamatsd Association of Street
ar.d Electric Railway Employes, and
Generni nreanizer William B. Fitz
h;ive n<> intention, however,
of letting up on either the B. R. T.
or the Interborough subway and ele
\a*- . . Operators on the latter
are bs_g organized as speedily as
: !e.
V M rhe- work is completed de?
mands foi th.' same settlement will
be presf-r.ted to the Interborough offi
r.- probably will not
be reache'i i.efore the pre.-ent surface
line agn-enii-nts are worked out satis
factorily.
"I do nn* ar.ticipate." said Mr. Ma?
hon, "a repetitiea of what wc have ju^t
pajsed through. The Interborough
cannf Ul rofasfl to Ol
nnr- of its Mibsidiary
comr.arne- has granted to another. As
. ?'. R T., that will be under
Uken in due time."
Work Eaalet Than on Monday.
The final ..precments settling the
mrfar r10n outside of Brook?
lyn were reached at a conference in
the Mayor*! office. The Mayor and
Chairrr.ai. StraUl oi the Public Service
CsflUBiasiOD gathorod with John Beaver,
rece.ver fnr the Second Avenue com
the blue car line; Charles W.
Hotry , :.-nt, and Kalph L.
Rand, .. nt and general man
?f,er, ? .'i-n Island Lifht and
Pow?r and the union officials
They went over
th* ground that had been covered with
th. Ni-w york Pailwayi and the Third
Aver.u?- eomp.ni.fl, but thc travelling
"?s fur . ,r. aa Monday.
laioad the terms
'h* com; . ;.'.;,? accepted. Mr.
kiver a' r.r I d.BBtfld his, power to
?he consent of the com
P?n>'i boa: i of directors, but Mr.
Str?u? issurid him that his powers
*?'? ampU Thrre wa, no question
?hout the Staten Island matter. Presi
??nt Wood of the Queens lines notified
?a mayet tl ..' hc was ill and eould
n?t atter.d tr..- .-onference. He asked
*h?t copies of the agrei-ment be sent
10 him. Th. , he ri'iurr.cd later with
hl? *%*_tari attached.
Mayor t<, Go on Vacallon.
"h i- ?:: - >.!/? the Mayor an
*?nced whea tl < twu-hour flOflfllOB had
*<UurnH -j;.,. whole business ha*
?4*4 satisfacroriiy. I am so plcased
?*<*the ntuation that I am going out
' tov|r. li flSOiTOB to spend my vaca
'j*"Ut Plutsburg. It is fortunate that
, (:'y r.df been iparad the catastro
?"??tiiit was tl reateaed by the sprcad
"* atrike."
**? 'he agrt,ments with the vanous
""?Wloucfl ua tm*n *. iulu_a I
STRIKE COST ROADS
OF CITY $344,000
Traflic men estimated yesterday
that the street railway strike, just
aettled, had cost the railway cor
poration* with lines ln Manhattan,
The Bronx and the Borough of Rich?
mond nearly $350,000.
Their figures. which admlttedly are
rough approximations, follow:
LOSS IN REVENl'ES:
Bronx railways (12 daya).$120,000
Manhattan railwaya (3
days) . 60,000
Richmond railways (3
days) . 3,000
EXTRA SALARIES:
To Interborough employe* 36,000
To New York Railway
employes . I5-000
ADVERTIAING . IM*
SU'lkFBREAKEUS . 20,000
SITIM.IES. COTS, ETC. 50,000
DETECTIYES. GUAJUN.
j/jp. 10,000
DAMAGE TO BQUIP
MENT . 15*000
Total .*3"'000
R.R.WEDIATORS
HURRYTON.Y.
Will Step into Dispute
if To-day's Confer?
ence Fails.
[Iftpm Tl)4< Tribune Bur'-au )
Washington, Aug. Ir-With the first j
! day's conference between officials rep
rflBCating 929 railway systems and the
foui railway brotherhoods without re
i suit. Commissioner William L. Chany
i hers and Assistant Commissioner O.
W. Hanger, members of the Cnited
, Board of Mediation and Con
cli-ition, left for New Vork to-night.
While they do not expect any imme
diate break which would result in the
| tie up of the entire business of the
; country. they are prepared for any
: emergency.
A second conference between the
railwavs and the unions is set for to
morrow morning in New York. ln case
? thi, is w.thout result the mediatiofl
board will step into the situation.
jndgfl Chamben was ia eoaaalution
with Preaideat Wilsot. to-day. and lt
I js understood that he carries the
i President'. personal appeal to both
.{dei to trv and find BOflflfl way out of
1 the deadlock that will not bring irrc
, parahle diflflfltfll to the whole country.
If this appeal fails. it is believed
? that the Preaident Will take hold of
tl e situation in PflrBOB. following the
K,.o-evelt precedent in the case of the
' anthracite coal strike.
Earlier Reports Better.
Earlifll reports from New York to
day had caused tbe commissioners to
consider postponing their tnp. As
long es the two groups continued in
eonfereaee wr.h no indefin.te adjourn
ment it was felt that the board could
do little. The union leaders had as
sured them thnt there would be no
prec.pitate action in declar.ng the
. ttrike. Thev had promUed. it WM dfl
: clared to-day, to allow nom one to
! two daya following any dn Irreement
. in the conference.*.. in which tne i.......
could have an opportunity to find a
led d.i-cuss*%pn.
The fact that Judge ( hambers and
Mr. Hanger aiterid their plans an.l
l,.ft to-nighl is Interprflted here te
i mean that tl Ifl situation haa already
: ariaaa, and that both sides, when they
met to-day, tound tl.. dead
; lock Thus tht- ttdjournment. until to
' niorrow might readily bfl intend-.,!
merely to gain tima for the mediation
board'to inunrene. Whether a formal
eation for mediation has been
filed with the board could not be
Uarned to-night.
Assistant ( ommiaaioner Hunger re
?' turned to Waahington last night trnm
New York. having won the l-uitch
' men's Cnion and the re'>resentati\ es
: <,f thirteea railroada in the Eaat tfl
CoaaCBt to arbitration. While he did
not confer directly with men from
eithei of tho groups in the main strike
controvaray, it i* understood that he
brought baek favorable reports as to
the mediation prospects.
Judge (.hambers and Mr. Hanger
i were ifl coiift-ri nce this morning with
' officiais ef the Baltimore & ohio Rail
' road regarding ? tr.ieateiied ftrike of
telegraphera and towflnaefl aa that sys?
tem Jadgfl CaaaaberB met men from
'. the union yesterday. Both suit* have
j aEreed to acecpt mediation. and this
! morning they agreed to po.tponfl fur
' ther hearinga until Friday. so that the
1 mediation board might devotfl Itaelf
entirely to the New Yort ntuution.
That the American Pederation of La
( f r.tinuaj ea o?Mt 3. coluinn 6
MOTHER SEES DAUGHTER
AND COMPANION DROWN
School Tcachcr Drags Lake
Rcscucr to Death.
Albcrta Isabelle Ludlum and Ade
laide LoVkwood, young school teacliers,
who were camping at Hawthorne Lake,
N. J., were drowned yesterday after?
noon while other metnbers of the party,
including Mrs. W. T. Ludlum, Miss Lud
laUB'a mother, looked on hclplessly.
Both young women were exce'.lent
swimmers. Miss Lockwood, however,
had a weak heart. She plungcd into the
water, and when only twenty feet from
shore called for help. Miss Ludlum, who
went through high school and normal
school in the same class with Mlsi
Lockwood, swam to her aide. The fran
tic iwimmer engaged the rescuer in a
death grip.
Half a dozen young women, with Mrs.
Ludlum and Mrs. Kdward Cardinal, who
formed thc camping party, clustcred on
the shore. At tirst they eould not
realize the pcril of the situation. None
of them eould swim. Before help eould j
bc summoned both young women had i
sunk. Their bodlafl woro recovered.
Miss Ludlum lived at o2* East Twen- l
'v-tourth Street, Paterson, and Miss
Lockwood at IM Fair Street^Paterson.
$2,500,000 PLANT WILL
QUENCH KANSAS THIRST
With Beer? Not a Chance! New
Soft Drink.
[Rj Trlograpb to Th* Trttnir.r 1
St. Louis, Aug. 8.-Contracts were let
to-day by the Anhcuser-Busch Brewing
Company for the construction of a $2,
500,000 addition to their St. Louis
plant, to be devoted exclusively to the
manufacture of a new soft drink.
The greatest demand for the soft
borerafO, olBciala say, has come from
Kaaaaa, thc "dry" state, where enor
mous quantities of the drink, which j
looks und tastes mueh like beer, are ,
being sold. *>Vhole trainloads of the '
beverage are shipped into Kansai every
day.
The new plnnt will employ continnal
ly 1,500 emrlo>es in filling, labelling,
packing and shippmg bottles, cases and
barrels of the product, at the rate of
IM carloads. or two million bottles,
every twenty-four hours.
JOVE HELPS MAKE
THRILLING MOVIE
Bolt Wrecks House Villain Was
Going to Dynamite.
A bolt of lightning took its place
unannounced on the list of props dur?
ing the BwhiBg of a motion pieture in
Westchester County yesterday. with the
result that an actor ll suffering a
broken leg and a rotake has been or?
dered in the dynamiting scene of "The
Crimson Bl
An o!d farmhouse in Bearadala town?
ship had been mined by the villain.
The hcro, whose destruction they
...ought, had arrived unsuspertingly on
tha prOBiiaea and all hands awaited the
director'i word, "Camera!"
The eommand was given and the vil?
lain was diseovered liphting the time
Just then a chau. of lightning
tumbled from the sky and beat the
dynamite to it by ripping out a whole
lidfl of the hou.-e. Arthur Morvil, of
21fj Weal Twenty-eighth Street, an
actor, BBffered a broki-n right knee.
110-FOOT LETTER SENT
TO JERSEY SOLDIERS
lt Is Signed by 80 Passaic Resi
dents and Goes to Border.
Passaic, N. J- Aug. 8.- The lOBgOSl
"letter from home" ever received by a
far-away soldier is on its way to the
members of Company A, 5th Regiment,
N. G. N J ? novv encamped at Oouglas,
Ariz. The missiv.-, ligaed by more
than eighty residents of this city, is
110 feet long and is seven and one-half
iaehoa irlde.
Eaeh member of C'omrany A is men
tioned in the letter and there is a kind
word or two from every signer. Tony
k, randidate for frocholder in
Paaaaic l ooaty, wa? mstrumental in
having the letter sent to the boys. and
he wrote a good part of lt The letter
will reach the camp within a few day.*.
BARE SKIN IS BABY'S
BEST SUMMER WEAR
Dr. Baker Says Nudity Would
Lower Death Rate.
Combined fashion and health hint to
mothers, by I?r. S. Josephine Baker. of
the Bureau of Child Hygiene Let the
baby go nake.l.
Dr. Baker ye.-terday received a letter
in which a mueh exerciscd correspond
ent CO?plaiaed that an East Side moth?
er was ponalttiBg her children, aged
one and three year., tO run about the
hoiue in their birthday clothes Tne
informant throatoaod to take the case
itraightwa*/ to the Bociety for Preven
tu.n of Cruelty to Chrldren.
"That Eaf* Bld. woman is & sensible
mothe'r." aaid Dr. Baker. "If areni
Biother of young children in the crowd
td .1 Itrieta would do the same thing
w? would have a lower death.- rate for
children under ft.fl years. Little tots
should go stark aakod thlfl wea'her Iti
ihe BBtural WBJ for them tO live. In
addition to that they should be given
a spong** bath twice a day and P'enty
of good fljiiilk ?nJ cool wattr to driuk.
HUGHES FLAYS
PORK BARREL
POLITIC1ANS
Defies Those in Own
Party Who Resent
Sharp Attacks.
CALLS FOR DEEDS
INSTEAD OFWORDS
Chieago Greets Candidate
with Enthusiasm That
Amazes Leaders.
[V:r,m a Staff rnTr*?pr>nrl?rit of The Trlbun* 1
Chieago, Aug. ?. Charles K. Hughei
turned to-night on the pohticians who
are fattening on Congressional pork
appropnations, and in terms that were
as emphatic as plain F.nglish eould
make them, attacked those leaders of
any politieal faction who approve such
lavish and promiscuous expenditures.
That he was well aware of the dn
favor with which his unexpected re
marks were being received by certain
of the Old Guard who were to be found
on the very platform from which he
spoke, was made evident from his
statement:
"I say this without any regard for
my politieal future."
Mr. Hughes's defiance came in the
midst af his evening addresi to the
gre*t?M erowci that aver paelwd thi
im. lt was a far greater crowd .
than that which filled the isrne struct-j
ure a little less than two months ago,'
whe. Mr. Hughes was named as the!
candidate of the Republican party for!
President. Mr. Hughes recognized thej
sentimental significance of the great j
cutpouring by statements to friends
and by on? referencc to it in his
speech.
Enthusiasm at Top Notch.
Although the candidate had been re
mved enthiir-iastically throughout the.
day. the enthusiasm exhibited at to
Inight'a raeetiag larprisod even those!
who had taken rart in the arr.m-e- I
meat! for it. Flag?, hats and hand
kerchiefs were waved and cheers con- j
tinued for ten minutes after thc arrival
of the nominee. As Mr. HBfBCI pro
rreded with hii address the c'neenng,
the numerous rrmarks from tho gul
| lery and the friendly questions that j
were fired at him indicated that hi? j
audience was in complete accord with
i h'-. 11 u
Mr. Hughes dispense.l with all the
customary prcliminaries, and imme
diately after being iiitrodiucd by Sena
tor Lawrence Y. Sherman plunged into
his subjecf. He discussed the need for,
topping the wholes.ile "pork" appro- .
priations to make "dry river beds
navigable" and the continued embar-!
rai-sment of the nation abroad because
1 of the granting of choice diplomatic
pcatfl to politieal favontes, and
brought his hcarers to their feet in a
hnal burst of enthusiasm when he pro?
duced a letter from William J. Bryan
to the newly appointed receiver gen?
eral in Saate Domiago asking for jobs
! fnr needy Democrats.
"I come to this hall with peculiar
. riiutions," said Mr Hughes. "Here. a
i lit'le lesa than two months ago, the
Republican National Convention nom
inated me for the office of President of
the 1'r.itel Statea. I had not sought
that nomination; I did not desire that
'nomination; I WBfl contented with my
work and looked forward to the fultil
ment of the allotted period of life in
w..rk that wai congenial and of the,
highe>t importaaee to the AsaericaB
Bul wii- n that call came it
ot admit of an ioatant'l hesitation.
; It meant but one thing, a summons to
' an obvious obligation, and, as I was,
while on the bench, 100 per cent a
judge, then became 100 per cent a can?
didate.
Solely for the People.
"I desired, if the American people
' sj willcd, to dedicate myself to the
j cause of American government, not
! for partisan expediency, not for
i friend-. not for politieal supporters,
; but for the American people aolely.
"I hold the highest partisan cxpedi
l miii noi'il on pus' V rolumn 4
Italy Joins the Big Push
UULMN /tlPS
/*fOA/T? <S480T/M0
iiWonwi
0om
Adriatic cJea
TRIE5T&
By FRANK H. SIMONDS.
The victory of the Italians at Gorizia is not merely the most im?
portant achievcment of their troops in the war, it does not merely im-j
peril the great Austrian port of Trieste. give Italy the crossings of the \
Isonzo and compel Austria to retire to a new position. but it also gives
notice to the world once more that the Central Powers are on the de-1
fensive on anothor front It is the third step in the development of
the general concentric offensive of the Allies.
It was in the first week of June that Russia struck, and the follow?
ing weeks were filled with the reflorts of great Russian suecesse.-,
udvances. captures. Barely a month later the blow at the Somme marked
the passing to the offensive of the British and the French; now in the
tirst week of August the Italians have struck. The Russian success was
very Krcat, and continues, as the latest reports from the region near
Stanislau indicate. The Anjrlo-French success was far less considerable,
but it still continues; the Italian success has been, to judge from the first^
rrports. quit* striking, and has led to the usual Austrian surrenders.
A111W Thne Ha* Cont?. "" j
We see, then, the time arrived for which the AlHes have beert pre-]
paring for nearly two years. For a year and a half their operations on
ihe several fronts were not coordinated, bore no relation to each other.
Germany was able to strike first France, then Russia. and then France
again at Verdun. She was able to go to the Balkans, and, thanks to her
fonllnned on pa*-e ', roliimn 4
Allies Beat Baek Fierce
Counter Drives; Push On
French in Two Days Have Won German Line Nearly Four
Miles Long?Haig Threatens to
Flank Combles.
[Bt CflaH Bl Th* MBflM 1
London. August B. Foch and Haig
have resumed the combined offensive
along the Somme and again are mak?
ing iteady progress.
The fighting now centres around
Guillemont, a strong position in the
German second line and on the road
to Combles. While the Freneh are
advanei.ig their line to the south the
British are pushing slowly eastward.
Foch's troops in the last two days
have won a German line north of the
siomme along a front of six kilometres
1.71 miles) and to a depth of from
300 to 500 metres Thus Combles is
being flanked on the south.
Meanwhile the British. who advanced
their line 400 yards southwest of
Cuillemont to-day, threaten to flank
Combles from the north. Before long
it is extremely likely that the town
will be attacked trom two sides. Its
fail will open the way for the inser
tion of .a wedge between Peronne and
Bapnume. the tirst objectives of the
Allied push in Picardy.
Freneh Attarkinr at Verdurf.
Ihe Freneh, continuing the pressure
along the Somme. have again taken
the initiative in the Verdun battle.
Furious fighting continue* in this
sector, but the Germans, whose attack
last night regained a footing in the
Thiaumont work, have been halted
again.
Petain has returned to the attack
and SoaidSB winning back t\\ the
Here and There!
The Fail crop of playa is coming on?and Heywood
Broun is here. To be colloquial. he ia also there.
Follow him both here and there?on the screen and
on the boards. You'll like it. for he is cont.nually
demonstrating a novel theory by his dramatic cntic.sms:
that intelligent comment can also be humorous.
Turn this morning to Page 7.
She LKritmue
First to LMMt?ths Truth:
Ntut?Editorials?Adv*rtisemsnU.
Utxn\-*r of tha Au-llt Burx-au of Ctrcula'.lon*.
.a_-D-L.
Thiaumont work. bas taken a line of '
trenche.4 on the Vaux-Chapitre front
The i.'rown Prince seeni* unable to
hold any gains his fierce attacks may '
win for him.
The British possession of Pozieres .
and the Longueval ridge is bearing
immediate fruit. Haig'g attacking j
wedge is now broadening eastward
from the Trones Wood and causing
flfl increasing menace to Combles. The
German* are making fierce attempts to
recapture the important ground they
have lost, but all of these efforts have
been frustrated.
Britiah Trenrhea Taken.
Their failure in four attacks north
flf Pozieres yesterday left the Kaiser's
troops still undaunted. ''sing flaming
darts, they assailed the British line
here four more times to-day. The first,
three attacks were thrown baek with
heavy loss, but the fourth succeeded in
penetrating the British trenches along
a tifty-yard front. The battle here is
still in progress.
All the unofheial reports from Haig's
front dwell on the spirit of absolute
elation with which the British troops
are fighting. All are imbued with the
feeling that individually and collec
tively they are supenoi to the Ger?
man*.
Timing his strokes carefullv with
those of his Allies on the south, Haig
is forging ahead northward and east
?vard The Germans def?ndir.e the re
maining approaches to the Albert pla?
teau are exhausting themselves in cqun
ter attacks. London expects before long
another sharp thrust northward from
Pozieres that will put Martinpuich and
Thiepval in serious peril.
Official Reports Tell
of West Front Fighting
London. Aug. S.?The British. offi?
cial communication issued to-night
read?:
"**outhwest of Guillemont we ad
vanced our line about four hundred
yards. Fighting continues near Guille?
mont station.
"Northwest of Pozieres the enemy
made four attack* on our trenehe*.
again Bfliag flammenwerfer Three at?
tacks failed completely, but in one he
managed to occupy about nfty yards ol
our trench. . ... .
"The enemv shelled Longueval. Hijrh
wood ind Pozieres heavily and also
the vicinity of Mameti.
"Elsewhere along the front it wa* a
quiet day, except for some artillery
CoatlBueal ob p-fle t. column l
GORIZIA BRIDGEHEAD
SEIZED BY CADORHA
Town Under Storm of Shells?
Way Opened to Invasion of Aus
tria and Capture of Trieste.
10,000 CAPTIVES TAKEN
IN SMASHING ATTACKS
Mountain Barriers Commanding Famous
Position faken by Storm After
Struggle Lasting a Year.
fBy Cable to The Tribune.]
London, Aug. 8.?The Italians have struck their blow in
the great Allied offensive. Assailing the Isonzo line on the
sixty-mile front from Tolmino to the Adriatic, Cadorna's troops
have captured the Gorizia bridgehead and more than 10,000
Austrians.
With the third year of the war just begun, the Teuton lines
are being battered in three huge drives. The Russian attack
gains momentum every day, the Allies on the Western front
have launched a new combined offensive, and now the ItaiiaiLs
have joined in the attack.
London sees in Cadorna's offensive one of the most sig
nificant and encouraging signs since the war began. Not only
does it give ev|dence of the regularity and the solidarity of the
Allies' scheduled advance, but'it shatters ^11-hope ats\M Aus?
trian offensive on the Trentino front. It is fresh proof that
the initiative h,i3 been wrested detinitely from the Teuton.
SLAVS CLOSE
ON STANISLAU
Win 17-Mile Line on
Dniester?Advance
from Brody.
[By c'arila to Tlie TYlhuna.1 ,
London. Aug. 8. Smashing their way
through a seventeen-mile line south of
the Dniester, the Ru*sian troops have
driven close to Stanislau, on the rail?
way from Kolomea to Lemherg. Thre*
concerted advance* have brought the
Czar's forces to within fifteen mile* of
the town.
This victory offers a double menace
to the Teutons. lt lends new weight
to the threat against Lemberg and
makes graver the position of von Both
mer's army holding the Stripa line.
The Czar's troops took 8,500 more
prisoners in the day's fighting and in
creased the territory they have con
quered in Eastern Galicia to more than
lixty square miles.
General Letchitsky's victory to-day,
rut t4vo railways. The capture of OW
tvnia breaches the Stanislau Kolomea ;
road and the capture of Tlumacz the
Buczacz-Stan.sl.u line. This Utter
railway was used to supply v?n Both
mir's right flank. and its surrender
mean* the opening of another road
along which to advance on Stanislau.
Austrians Put t" YVight.
NlM village* were won in the fight?
ing la this sector to-day. Inadd.tion
th; r,dge aouthw.it of the Kolomea
<tan.slau railway was captured. putting
?the Austrians to light The Russian
cavalrv ga-.e pursu.t. with the prospect
of forc.ng another eomplete rout.
' Meanwhile another offensive is pro-1
cced.ng south from Brody against von,
Bothmer'. left flank. In th'.s attack.
which won a series of villages about
Zalocze, on the Sereth, the objective i*
the Tarnopol Lemberg railway. The
cutting of thi* line would give the1
Ru??ian troops an opening for a thrust
directly westward toward Lemberg.
The threat to Lemberg grow* hourly,
and unofficial reports have it that the :
evacuation of the city has been ordered
already. According to Bucharest ad
vices, the Governor of Lemberg three
day* ago issued a proclamation fore
shadowing the surrender of the eapital.
Despite the German reinforcements
sent to bulwark von Bothmer'* lflfll,.
wing the Russian* have continued thr'r
ste'ady progre**. The prompt German
admi.ision of a defeat south of the
imiester give* hint that the Russian
stroke has not yet reached its rnaxi?
mum. Floods and mud have failed to
halt Letchitiky'* ad.'ance.
Two Offen?ive? Gaining.
The two offensive*- one aouth from
Brody. the other westward, toward
Stanislau - are (,-aining gtrength. The
Russian* on the Dniester are now far
west of von Bothmer'* line along the
???I 4.
I Caaaliatted oa aaaf* t, ? -nl*una l
Serlooa Menace to Trieste.
The Italian euccessea have cre
ated a very serious menace to
Trieste and prepared the way for an
invasion of Austria. In fieroe fight?
ing in the last two days, Cariorna'a
?nen captured Monte Baboiiao, north
y( Gorizia, and .Monte San Michele,
:>n the Carso plateau. lyinjr to the
south. This gives them control of
the Gorizia bridgehead, one of the
most important of the Ausirian de
fences along the Isonzo.
Gorizia, lying between the moun?
tains on the north and the Carso
plateau on the south, blocked the
road to Trieste. The Italians a year
ago won a hold oh the Carso plateau,
but they eould not advance on Trieste
because such a move laid their flank
and rear open to attack by the Aus
trians at Gorizia.
The Russian vietories have drawn
heavily on the Austrian reserves.
Those vietories were continued to?
day, and the Slav throat continues
to jjtow. General Koevess, a very
able general, was transferred from
the Trentino front to Galicia, in an
effort to stem the Russian tide. Aus?
trian troops were transferred from
the Isonzo front to the Galieian line.
Firet Sureeaa on Sunday.
Against the weak^ned Isonzo Iin.
Cadorna attacked last Friday. The rirat
succeis was won on Sunday, when in
the Monfalcone zone, south of Gorizli,
the Italians made notable progr*- i
and clinehed their hold on the Carso
plateau. The time had then come to
renew the frontal attack on Gorizu,
aiming the blow at Podgora, directly
west of the stronghold and the heigh'i
guarding it on the rlanks.
The battle for th.Me nalient pointi
ha., be*n raging for the last two days,
with the Austrian line crumbling grad
ually before the unrelenting biows. ln
front of Gorizia the ronflict ror.tinu**,
but the important hfights rontn. rr.g
the approach*3 to th.' stronghold ar.
r.ow m the Italians' possession. Ca
dorna's guns ar?- iBOlliag the town,
clearing the way for the final thru>t
that will rarry it.
When Gorizia fa!ls the way will ba
open for an mvarlion .( Aus'rra Wlth
the surrounding heights, the town
forms the gatoway into Austria. !??.
surrender arill make* possible both an
advance on Trieste ar.d a new ofTVr.xive,
eastward along the Caiso plateau into
Austria proper.
Great Numbar-r of Prisonera.
Ai significant a* th* capture pf th.
Gorizia bridgehead is the great num?
ber of prisoners taken by the Ital'.am.
The Austriin?, according to dispatchea
from Rome, are attll yieMing by th.
thousands. The enemy, Rome reporta,
ii deitmying many villages in the vl
cinity of Gonzia.
The Auitrian, now hold little ground
01. the right bank of the Isonzo \ 1.
er.na, admitting the los*. of the Gor?
izia bridgehead, sayi that a withdrawal
to the Rastsn Isonzo was made neeefr*
? ary to avoid severe loaiei to thi de*
fendera of tha briagebiad. Thua tho
