THIS PAPER issued In
Two Section* Section
two—Pages 1 to 8—Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Denison
locale.
VOL. 51
=F
CAMPAIGN NOT TO
AWAIT CONGRESS
Democrats Will Start Fi(|ht Soon Af
ter September 1st. Regardless
of Adjournment
IN FULL. SWING BY FIFTEENTH
Middle of Month Will See Speechmak
ing Well tinder Way.—Will Try
to Get Women Voters.
NEW YORK, Aug. 7—A decision to
launch the democratic national cam
paign soon after September 1st, re
gardless of whether congress is still in
sessidfei was reached at a conference to
day between President Wilson, Vance
C. McCormick chairman of the demo
cratic national committee and Homer
S. Cummingtf, the committee's vice
chairman. The two democratic lead
ers took lunch with the president and
remained' with him tout* hours, going
over minutely the campaign plans.
While no date was set for the notifica
tion ceremonies, Chairman McCormick
said tonight that if congress remained
in session after September 1st notifi
cation might take place before adjourn
ment. Under such circumstances the
president will go to Shadow Lawn, N.
J., for the occasion and return imme
diately afterward to Washington. In
vitations sent to the president to speak
in various parts of the country were
considered at the conference today.
Mr. Wilson will make no definite en
gagements, however, until a date for
the adjournment of congress is agreed
on. He already has promised to go to
Hodgenville, Ky., September 4tli, to
speak at Lincoln memorial exercises,
and has made a tentative engagement
to visit St. Louis September 19tli, 20th
or 21st io. address an organization of
underwriters. The Hodgenville speech
however, will be of a non-political char
acter.
Chairman McCormick has planned to
have the democratic campaign in lull
swing by September 15th. Mr. Cum
mins, who is chairman of the speak
ers' bureau at democratic national
headquarters, told the president of the
progress made in assigning speakers to
the various states.
It was definitely determined that the
president would not speak in Maine,
where the election comes September
11th, but he probably will w,rite letters
and in other ways take part in the cam
paign. William J. Bryan, Mr. Cummins
said, probably cannot take part in the
Maine campaign, but will make speech
es later. An itinerar has not yet been
arranged for him. An active campaign
will be carried on by the democrats in
more states this year than ever before,
the two leaders said after their talk
IL
with the president. No states will be
conceded to the republicans, they de
clared. The democratic organizations
in republican strongholds are being
strengthened with the idea of putting
up a light all along the line.
Selection of the democratic campaign
committee has been almost completed,
Mr. McCormick announced and its per
sonnel will be announced within a few
days. The chairman remained here
until late tonight discussing the make
up of the committee.with other demo
cratic leaders. He saw several Cali
fornia democrats to get in touch with
the situation in their state.
Plans lor winning the women voters
will be pushed actively, according to
Mr. McCormick, in spite of the an
nouncement of Charles B. Hughes, the
republican nominee, that he favors a
federal suffrage amendment. A wo
man's bureau at the New York head
quarters will be organized in the near
future.
CORNER STONE LAYING.
Corner Stone for New School Building
to be Laid August 14th, Grand
Master of Masons Presiding
DOW CITY, August 8 (Special to the
Review)—
The corner stone laying of the New
consolidated school building at Dow
City will take place at 2.30 P. M. Aug
ust 14th under the auspices of the
Grand Lodge of Masons of the State of
Iowa.
Grand Master Thomas Arthur of
Logan will direct the laying ceremon
ies assisted by Grand Secretary New
ton R. Parvin of Cedar Rapids and oth
er grand notables of the state.
The band will give a short concert
before the parade consisting of Masons
from the lodge room to the school after
which ceremonies of corner stone lay
ing and singing by a chorus of fifty
place. After the laying of the cor
ner stone prominent speakers, In
cluding Mr. John L. Cherney, of
Des Moines, Prof. W. C. VanNess,
Prof. F. N. Olry and local ministers
will address the public followed by mu
sic and other entertainment.
Everybody is cordially invited to
attend and make this day long to be re
membered in the annals of Crawford
County history.
The city council is advertising for
bids in this issue for the paving of
Court street from the north side of
Tremont street to the north side of
Benefit afreet on White street from
the north side of Benefit street to the
north side of Updike street and Bur
gess avenue, and on Updike street
and Burgess avenue from the east side
of White street to the main tracks of
the Illinois Central railway. The coun
cil will receive bids for this paving on
Monday evening, August 21st, at
o'clock at the city hall.
House Dress Specials
A complete line of house dresses, shown in the latest
and most comfortable styles. The offering is in 3 lots.
LOT A--The new "Simplicity" house
dress. Shown in striped percale. Price
LOT B. Regular $1.50 value. Shown in
ginghams, striped designs. Priced at
LOT C. Regular $1.00 value.
Priced at
Flexo Underskirts
No elastic to rot no hooks to bulge. Shown in the
newest style. Specially priced at, each
98c
Open Evenings Until 8
SI .50
98c
69c
,5
MONTHLY MEETING
COMMERCIAL CLUB
Matter of Band for Denison Taken up
and Committee Appointed to Fur
ther Advance the Project
CO-OPERATE WITH OLD SETTLERS
Secretary Reports Signing Contract
With Ringling Bros. Circus for
Wednesday, August 30th.
The regular monthly business session
of the Commercial club was held Fri
day evening and although the mercury
was hovering well above the SO degree
mark there were in the neighborhood
of thirty members present. In the ab
sence of J. U. Lyon, president of the
club, Mr. Hugo Gebert presided.
The first matter that came before
the attention of the club was the mat
ter of organizing the new band. -Mr.
Gibler, the new band leader, was in
attendance at the meeting and told the
club members that he had talked with
a number of the musicians and be
lieved that there was material avail
able here .for a first class band of thir
ty-five or forty pieces. He felt confi
dent that Denison could have as good
a band as there is in the state with a
little work on the part of the various
musicians. The club membership
were well impressed with the new
leader. The chair appointed a com
mittee composed of P. J. Klinker, W
E. Kahler and Dr. A. H. Rosburg, lo
solicit funds to help defray the ex
penses of the leader. We understand
that the committee has already raised
several hundred dollars for band pur
poses.
Plans for the old settlers' picnic, to
be held in Washington park on Thurs
day, August 31st, were discussed by
the club and it was decided that the
club should co-operate with the olli
cers of the old settlers' organization :n
every way possible to make it a suc
cess. A committee composed of
L. Hunt, Alfred Wright, Bert McCord.
T. A. Harvey and C. C. Kemining was
appointed to raise funds to belp de
fray the expenses of the picnic.
It. E. Mote, secretary of the club, re
ported that he had signed a contract
witli T. B. Austin, advance man lor
Ringling Bros, circus, to have the cir
cus appear here on Wednesday, August
30th, guaranteeing them free license,
grounds and water. Mr. Mote report
ed that funds amounting to $150.00
had been pledged by business men to
pay the items above mentioned.
Ward Tucker was admitted to mem
bership at the meeting.
if
Two No. 1 1-4 cans of sliced peaches for 15c
No 2 1-2 cans of sliced pine apple, a can 20c
20-ounce jar of peanut butter, per jar 20c
1-2 pound can of salmon, 2 cans for 13c
5-pound package of starch priced, each 19c
Broadway bath tablets, including a rub
ber wash cloth, priced at 15c
New cabbage priced at 5 pounds 13c
THE DENISON REVIEW
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, NOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, AUG. 9, 1916.
SCHOOL OPENS SEPTEMBER 4TH
Welcome News to Children cl
Denison—Full Quota of Teachers
Has Been Arranged for
School commences on Monday, Sep
tember 4th. This will he welcome
news for the children of Denison who
have been enjoying the three months'
vacation. Of course they are all elat
ed over the fact that Ringling Bros.'
circus will visit Denison before the
opening of school, which will give
them ail opportunity of watching the
circus unload and the big tent, pitched
on the grounds near the Illinois Cen
tral depot.
The full quota of teachers has bee!
arranged by the. school board and ev
erything is being arranged so school
will be opened without a hitch of any
kind. Supt. C. E. Humphrey returned
to Denison several weeks ago and has
been busily engaged in getting every
thing ship shape for the opening of
school. By opening school September
•Itli there will be four complete months
of school before the Christmas vaca
tion.
All of the school buildings have been
renovated and many improvements
made. The west brick building is now
being remodeled and toilet rooms are
being added. The contractor, M. P.
Renfro, who has the work in charge
is rushing things so the building will
be in readiness by September 4th.
DEATH OF MRS. ERICHSEN.
Mrs. Adolph Erichsen Died at Her
Home in Denison Monday, August
7th—Consumption the Cause
Mrs. Adolph Erichsen died at her
home near Washington park on Mon
day, August 7th, the cause of her
death being due to an advanced case
of consumption. Mr. and Mrs. Erich
sen came to Denison about two weeks
ago to make their permanent home
here with the hopes that the climate
would prove' pf benefit to her.
Antonia Koterba was born at Clust
er' Neuburg Yein, Austria, May 1G.
1886. SJie came to'America with her
brother in 1908 and located in Chicago,
where she was married to Mr. Erich
sen on the 14th day of February, 19'2.
Shortly after their marriage they
moved to a farm near Denison, where
they resided for. three years, moving
to Kiron, where they lived for two
years. Besides, her husband and moth
er she leaves 4t*inourn her death two
children, Anthon, two years of age, and
one daughter, Anna, four months of
age also one sister who lives in Chi
cago.
Funeral services will be held Thurs
day afternoon at 1 o'clock from the
home and at 2 o'clock at the German
Methodist church, Rev. E. Witter otll
dating.
final Clearance thin week ef Summer Stresses
tfhursdaif, Jridaif and tiaturdaif
t?OR this week we offer our entire line of Women's Summer Dresses at unheard of prices. The materials shown are Voiles, Organdie
Linens and Crepes. The styles* embody the very latest creations. There is a very limited number to offer, hut these dresses -mui
be disposed of to make room for the new fall stock that is arriving daily.
The entire offering will be placed on sale this week at just one-half original cost.
Come early as the best styles will go first.
Ladies hose mLiS.lsf'aiueOc Ladies'Ribbed Vests
in Grocery Department
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
Remember that our full line of fresh and
smoked meats bear Menagh's Quality Stamp
George Menagh & Co.
RINGLING CIRCUS
HERE AUGUST 30
Greatest Circus in the World Today is
Billed to Play Denison Wednes
day, August 30th.
KIDDIES READY FOR THE SHOW
Press Agent Donaldson in City Today
Making Arrangements for Adver
tising—Four Train Loads.
"Peanuts, popcorn, cracker-jack
it's only five a package. Get your ice
cold lemonade here. Buy your tickets
here for the sideshows you have
plenty of time the performance in the
big tent will not start for an hour."
Doesn't it all sound natural? Weil,
that's what everyone will hear in Den
ison on Wednesday, August 30th, when
Ringling Bros, big circus will show at
the grounds adjoining the Illinois Cen
tral depot in West Denison.
Since word leaked out last week
that this circus, the biggest and best
of all circuses,_ would visit Denison
this month the news has traveled like
wild fire and the little tots have been
talking it from morning until night
until fond parents hear nothing but
circus, circus, circus. But who doeosn't
love a circus? With the announce
ment of its coming there is down in
every heart a feeling of exultation of
the joys of living. Nobody stays at
home unless they are sick or tired.
Streets and show grounds are always
crowded with happy people in their
newest and prettiest clothes. The cir
cus is coming! What pictures the
imaginative youngsters paint from
those four words and what youngster
is without imagination? Is there a
small boy in Denison who can read
those words and not feel a thrill of
joyful anticipation, who does not con
jure up visions of glittering pageants
wild anil fercious beasts glaring from
their cages, beautiful horses and still
more beautiful riders, ludicrous clowns
and shrill calliopes? Yes, and more
tiian that the older people are not ex
empt from thrills. Mr. and Mrs
Grownup are looking forward to cir
cus day with just as much enthusiasm
as the little Grownups.
James F. Donalson, press agent of
the Ringling Bros, circus, is in Deni
son today £«id ca+led at the Review
office to make arrangements for the
advertising. Mr. 'Donalson tells us
tiiat the big show requires 86 double
length railway cars to carry the para
phernalia. It will come to Denison
from Fremont, Neb., over the North
western, and will come in four sec
tions. Youngsters, just think, there
will be four big train loads to watch
Meat Specials
Fresh hamburger, priced at per pound 15c
Fresh home-made bologna, 2 pounds 26c
Wierners, priced at 2 pounds for 25c
Saturday Special
Extra fancy shoulder beef roast pound 12 3-4
9c
Priced at
unload. Twelve hundred people ac
company the circus and when one con
siders that over two hundred men arc
required to put up the big tent it does
not seem to be more than necessary.
Then there are 800 horses. Mr. Don
alson informs us that 20 tons of hay
will be required here in Denison to
teed the horses, 350 bushels of oats.
In the mess tent 30 gallons of milk
will be used. All of the supplies, both
for the vast army of workmen and
performers and animals, will be pur
chased locally if possible.
Within another week bill boards will
be plastered with the announcements
of the big circus. Forty advertising
men will come with a special car to
Denison to bill this territory.
MISS GLASSBURNER WRITES
Interesting Report From Miss Mamie
Giassburner Printed in This
Issue of the Review.
We print in the paper this week fur
ther news as to the work of Miss
Mamie Giassburner in the Chinese mis
sion field, under the auspices of the
Woman's Foreign Missionary society
of the Methodist church. Crawford
county has sent forth many distin
guished men and women and has a
most honorable record along this line.
In the eyes of many, none surpass Miss
Giassburner in all around culture and
nobleness of character. The news from
her which we print this week is a part
of her report to the church at large
as to the work done with her associ
ate, Miss Jennie D. Jones, at Hai-tang.
Miss Giassburner has now been pro
moted to a better and more' congenial
mission at Yenping and the report we
print is her last on the work at Hai
tang. Little did she think when open
ing her report with the beautiful verse
written by James Whitcomb Riley that
when it reached readers in America
there would be mourning in the hearts
of his friends over his death. We are
informed from reliable sources that
Miss Giassburner has made a brilliant
success at Hai-tang that taking an un
promising field on an island out in the
ocean where they have very little to
build upon, she has founded a school
for the despised Chinese girls whose
influence will tell forever in the new
christian ideas and ambitions implant
ed. The work calls for leadership and
instruction at a .girls' boarding school
among bible, women training school
for women, and day schools. Within a
couple of years Miss Giassburner will
again be home on vacation. Knowing
her zeal for the mission field it is prob
able she will give all her life and
strength to it. We believe her friends
among our readers will be glad to read
the report which we give this week.
Specials for this week
in our Dry Goods Department
Thousands of yards of seasonable fabrics offered
at substantial savings on each yard
About SSO yards figured lawns, shown in white
ground with blue, lavender, pink or black AL|
figures. Regular 12\c values, priced at O^v
Final clearance of Egyptian tissues. This is a yarn
dyed fabric, guaranteed fast color, white ground
with dainty checks and stripes. Usually
sells at 25c a yard. Priced per yard
About 50 yards of silkYnarquisettes, shown in plain
blue, brown, purple or black. Also in white 4
ground with striped florol effects. Regular 50c I vv
Boy's Underwear
Boys' Union Suits, all sizes, QQ/»
50e grades. Priced per suit
Please mention The Re
view when answering
"Classified Ads." This
courtesy will be appre
ciated.
No. 32
Large Amount of Money to be Expend
ed for Permanent Bridges and
Culverts in the County.
HAVE SPENT $90,000 THIS YEAR
Herman Grill, of Denison, Was Award
ed the Biggest Part of Work.—
Engineer Fishel Satisfied.
At a meeting of the board of super
visors held yesterday evening con
tracts were let for the construction ot
forty-three bridges and culverts, the
total price for the entire work amount
ing to $17,270.19. Eleven contractors
handed in estimates on the various
jobs, which were allowed to three con
tractors.
County Engineer H. ,B. Fishel is
well satisfied with the contracts as
made by the board, althogh they
amounted to $150 above the estimate
he had made on the work. The. in
creased cost is due to the present
price of steel which goes ii)to the re
inforced concrete bridges and cul
verts. With the contract let yesterday
the board has this year contracted for
over $90,000 worth of bridges and cul
verts.
The successful bidders at the let
ting yesterday were as follows: Ells
worth McNeal, of Deloit Herman
Grill, of Denison, and the Manning,
Cement company, of Manning. Her
man Grill, of Denison, walked away
with the biggest part of the work, the
contracts allowed to him by the board
amounting to $29,735.75. Mr. McNeal
received contracts totaling $11,712.00.
and the Manning Cement company.
$5,822.44.
Four of the contracts are for big
pony truss bridges. Three 60 foot span
bridges are to be erected, one in each
of the following townships: Paradise.
Iowa and Soldier. One 50 foot span
pony truss bridge will be erected in
Willow township.
Below we give the townships where
the forty-three bridges and culverts
will be erected: Jackson 7 West Side
5 between East- Boyer and HayeB 2
East Boyer 1 Hayes 2 Iowa 2 Nish
nabotny 3 Otter Creek 1 Goodrich
2 between Denison and Goodrich 1
Denison township 1 Soldier 3 Mor
gan 1 Hanover 2 Paradise Union
2, and Willow 3.
Mrs. John Bailey left the first of the
week for Bronson, where she will
spend ten days visiting relatives.
Miss Clara Curry was a guest at the
J. T. Carey cottage at Lake View Sun
day.
14
Boy*' 2-piece Underwear, all 1
Q/»
sizes. 25c value. Priced at
Open Evenings Until 8
li V#
rW
