THE "ARIZONA: REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAE
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY AIORNINd, AUGUST ), 10KJ
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 83
RUSSIANS ASM
E VKTOH
I
ITALIANSIHTWQDAYS HAVE
CAPTURED TEN THOUSAND iEN
IHILEROSSIANS ARE ADVANCING
i
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
LONDON Aug., S. Before the echoes have died of the mutual con
gratulations of the entente allied sovereigns, statesmen and qenerals on
the auspicious opening of the third year of the war, comes news of further
Russians successes and of a splendid victory for the Italian arms on the
Isonzo front.
The surprising success of the Italians, who in two days have cap
tured 10.0QO prisoners, suggests that in addition to transferring General
Koevess, an able Austrian general, from the Trentino front to Galicia, the
Austrians also ventured to transfer troops from the Isonzo to the Rus
sian front in an endeavor to stall the Russian advance.
General Cadorno's victory has caused great rejoicing in London as one
of the most promising successes in the new allied operations and a dem
onstration of the constantly growtnq power of the allied offensive on
all the fronts. Russian new voctories south of the Dniester and south
west of the Stanislau-Kolomea railway afford eaual satisfaction, and the
prompet admission in Berlin of the statement of the retirement of the
Austro-Germans south of the Dnies'er is taken here to indfeate that the
Russian victory in this quarter is weightier than yet announced by the of
ficial dispatches. According to an unofficial report, the evacuation of Lem
berg, the Galician capital, has already been ordered.
In the meantime a new combined offensive by the allies has bequn on
the western front which is expected to lead to .the severest .fightinq.
Guillemor.tr around which heavy fighting is now in proqress is one of
the strong positions in the .German second system of defense and will
doubtless be defended by the Germans, as was Pozieres. with tre utmost
stubbornness.
Letchitzky Is
Going Ahead
With Victories
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PKTROGRAD. August 8. (Via Lon
don.) General Letchitzky, who a week
ago, in spite of flooded rivers and heavy
roads, began anew his hammering of
the right flank of General Count von
Bothmer'a army, and by a cavalry at
tack took Ezerzany, has scored a new
victory by tho capture of Tlumach, 10
miles farther to the northwest. There
has been little news from that section
but it is apparent that General Let
chitzky has been following up his suc
cess along a front, of 10 miles south of
the Dniester in the face of German re
inforcements sent to stiffen von Both
xner's right wing.
The taking of Tlumach cuts the rail
way between Stanislau, Tysmientsa
and liuczacz. which has been utilized
by the Austrians for supplying the
southern end of von lSothmer's front,
and gives the Russians another direct
avenue of attack on Stanislau.
The Austrians tried to offset the
force of Letchitzky s assault by fierce
attacks along the Koroplce river
northward, but without avail. They
were repulsed with severe losses. At
the same time a Russian offensive is
being pusi.ed against von Bothmer's
Iff. flunk, south of Brody. A group
of villages centering about Zalneze on
the head waters of the Serelh. have
been captured, and each day'3 devel
opments show a farther advance west
ward, the evident effort to tap the
i nl way letvveen Tarnopol and Lem-
berg, which offers an easier line of
(dvunce, with few rivers and natural
barriers to tre Ojlicla:i capital.
Turks Advancing
I .X DON", Aug. . a Constanti
nople dlsnaleh aavs that the Turks,
advancing across Kermanshah ( Per
sia occupied Hahra and other places
on tie ro.id to Ilam.nlan on Monday
The TurkisH minister of finance
the ilisp:ilch adds, has been empow
ered lo .- tept frcru Germany n ":tn
r c i.vfM ftf. i
BELIEVE Bie BUILDING PROGRAM
OR NAlI HAS BEEN ASSURED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
WASHINGTON. August 8. Admin
istration leaders believed tonight they
bad won their fight for authorization by
congress for the big naval building
program, Including four dreadnoughts
and four battle cruisers for 1M7,
drawn up by the senate naval commit
tee after cimference with President
Wilson and Secretary Daniels. Ma
jority Leader Kitchin In serving notice
today that he would call up the bill in
the house next Tuesday, announced
that Chairman Padgett,, of the house
naval committee, one of those who held
out In conference against the senate in
creases, would move that the senate
amendment be agreed to. x
Senator Swanson said tonight lead
ers had made a careful canvass of the
situation and were confident -that the
senate's personnel increases and con
tinuing program would be accepted by
the house along with the- building in
creases for 1917. A call was sent
broadcast to absentee representatives
to be on hand for the vote Tuesday.
In making his announcement to the
house the majority leader said sep
arate roll calls would be taken on' the
senate amendment. Including the cap
ital ships for next year from four to
eight; on the proposal for a general
construction program next year; pro
viding for increased numbers of sub
marines, destroyers and other vessels,
besides those of the capital class; on
the three-year continuing program;
on the personnel increases, and on ap
propriation of 111 0,0X5,000 for a dry dock
at Charleston, 8. C.
That Chairman Padgett would make
a, motion to concur in these amend
ments came as a surprise.
Senator Swanson said no doubt re
mained that the senate naval program
would be approved. .
With final action' on the naval bill
imminent, the senate today approved
without debate the Conference report
n
Austrians Admit
Italians Take
Gorzia Bridgehead
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
VIENNA, (Via London ' Aug.. 8
The loss of the Gorlzia blidgeliead
the Italian forces Is admitted in the
Austrian official statement issued to
day. A withdrawal to the eastern
Isonzo, the statement says, waa nec
essary to avoid severe losses to the
defenders of the bridgehead because
of the desperate attacks made by the
Ital'ans
The Gorlzia bridgehead was one of
the most important defensive posi
tions of the Austrians, along the Json
tk, front. It was the scene of heavy
lighting in the e.iriy months of the
war, when the Italians after making
considerable advances were signally
helJ up along the Isonzo line.
Gorizla is 22 miles northwest, of
Tritst. one of the principal objectives
i f the Italian campaign and regarded
as the key to that position.
one of the first acts of the Italians
after the war began wis to throw a
strong force of infantry and cavalry
across the Austro-Hungarian frontier
end occupy a stretch of territory
alonk the Isonzo. They captured sev
eral towns but the Austrian positions
naturally strong, had been heavily I
toriiiiea ana progress was slow. r. u
fighting along the Isonzo continues
until Lecemler. Since that time
there has been only sparodic activity
on that front until the last few days.
On Friday of last week the Italians
opened a new attack and although the
authorities: at Rome have permitted
'out few details to become known, at
has been intimated that an important
mpaign was being launched. The
first notable results were obtained
j-unuay v. nen iiunan iroops m i.if
considerable progress in the Monfal
cone sector.
Gorlzia Is the principal city of the
Isonzo valley with
about SO.Ofitj.
a population of i
f i
on the $27,000.000 army appropriation
bill which will be called uj) and acted
on in the house tomorrow. A favorable
vote is expected before adjournment
tomorrow night, after which the meas
ure will go to the president. If expec
tations are borne out, the naval bHl
will follow It to the president's desk
within two weeks at most and national
defense legislation undertaken as the
salient feature of the sixty-fourth con
gress will have been Included with ap
propriations to carry It Into effect ag
gregating approximately 1635,000,000.
Jersey City's Embargo on
f",".a1. '.p' ,-t"a wlrJ '
., , , August x. jersey ) loaded shrapnel and high explosive
City r embargo on shipment anl "tor- j 8hellii at C.ravesend Hay during Aug
age of nigh explosives was attacked in ust. Tne contract is for $13,000,000 and
wie reuerai court today ny tne agency
l"c vanauian tar v rounury torn-
pany, Limited, in a suit to restrain the
Jersey city commission from interfer
ing with the Delaware, Lackawanna &
Western Railroad company accepting
munitions at its piers.
-Federal Judge liellstab will hear ar
gument on the application for a pre
llminury Injunction at Belmar next
Thursday.
Action ofJersey City authorities In
compelling the railroads to unload a
car of explosives shipped by the Can
adian company at Kingsland, N. J., 1m
the basis for the court action today.
The proceedings are directed against
the five city commissioners of Jersey
cite
Under a eontrnei nIIH iVtn Tl..D..lnn
government the ( munition factory is
Administration Extravagant and
J& J& J& J& j?
CHILD LABOR BILL IS
FARM LOAN BOARD
PLANS AN ITINERARY
WASHINGTON, August 8. Ten
tative plans of the farm loan
board for holding hearings through
out the country to secure informa
tion on which to divide the United
States into twelve land bank dis
tricts and locate in each a federal
land bank, were made today at a
two-hour session of the board.
They provide fur a first hearing in
New Kivgland, probably at Port
land. Maine, Augusv I. From New
England the board will go west
over a "northern route and down
the Pacific coast through Cali
fornia. The trip east will be made
through the central section of the
country. The board will spend sev-
I eral weeks In Washington alter the
I trip Is concluded and may hold
I Hearings here then to listen to the
I views of farmers from Mui y.and,
i Virginia, ltelawart,' Puttiisylvania
and nearby states. A second trip
i to cover the sj'ith will be under-
taken in the fn 11 and the hoard will
I, then return (o Washington to make
Its decisions.
a-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug., 8 Formal
announcement that a Joint interna
tional commission will seek a solu
tion for Ix.rder disputes between llif
United Stales and the Mexican gov
ernment probably will be made to
morrow. Acting Secretary J'olk and
Ellseo Arredondo, General Carranza's
ambassador, virtually concluded their
preliminary conferences today.
It Is regarded a probable that ad
ditional diplomatic correspondence
will be necessary. Mr. Arrednndo as
sured Mr. Polk today that his gov
ernment wjs willing that the com
mission should have a broad scope",
but that It wished to see the im
mediate questions arising from the
border
situation disposed of first.
Slate department ofiieials agreed with
that view.
President Wilson Is. expected to an
nounce the American membership of
the commissianship af once. It has
heen agreed by Mr. Polk and Mr.
Arredondo that selection of the place
for the meeting will be left to the
commissioners themselves.
Withdrawal of Ameriran
troops
i pro
border from Mexico, negotiation for
t0cal governing the future
operations and investigation of the
Interests behind bonier raids first
were outlined l-v General Carranza
for disi iisslon lv the commissioners
and when the I'nited States suggested
n u'lilftr InMtiio,. f!ti,r:il I'urnnvii in.
dlcated that he desired the three
specific (mentions named taken up
"preferrably," whether be meant to
j close, the door on wider injuiries itno
i relations between the two countries
J and means of restoring economic and
financial order in ' Mexico was not
certain.
Mr. Arredondo a-ssured Mr. Polk
todav that the language meant mere
Iv that the commission should lirst
endeavor to formulate recommenda
tions of tho specific points before
proceeding to other matters. He said
the Mexican government intended t.i
comply with the suggestions of the
Washington government completely
except in regird to what subjects
should be discussed.
The state department ffevcr has dis
closed xpccifirallv its reasons for
seeking to broaden the scope of the
commission. It is understood, how
ever, that President Wilson, and his
ul visors are hopeful that a plan may
he evolved whereby aid can tie given
a constructive effort to solve the
economic and financial problems
which General Carranza Is facing.
GOBI IS
TQ HAVE BROAD
SHE IS RUMOR
Explosives is Attacked
I obliged to deliver daily 750,000 partly
provides a penalty of one per cent for
Verv week's delay in de iverv.
Over
$7,000,000 of the contract has been
completed, and the company has been
held up in shipment by the Jersey
City officials as the outcome of the
recent explosion at Black Tom island
The complaint charges that there is
no New Jersey statute to prohibit the
! shipment and that the rulings of the
interstate commerce commission legal
ises such shipments.
- The suit will act as a test case for
the other railroads.
Munitions under Jersey City's ban
which the company shipB are steel
shells, cartridge cases, black powder,
trlriltrotoluel, unfinished shrapnel, high
explosive shells and ammunition for
1
.HUE
SHIPMENTS If
TOTMADEGDQQS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. S The Semite
late today passed the bill to prevent
interstate, commerce in rtroduots of
child labor. The vole was f,2 to 12.
The Measure, already passed bv tho
house, was brought to a vote in tho
senate upon the insistence of Presi
dent Wilson after t!ie democratic'
senate caucus once bad decided to
defer its consideration until next De-j
cetnber.
Senators who voted against the bill
were:
liankhead, Alabama: Tlryund and
Fletcher. Florida: Hurdwb k and
Smith, Georgia; overman and Sim
mons. North Carolina: Smith and
Tillman, South Carolinar Williams,
MHsbsippI, (democrats), and oler
ami Penrose, Pennsylvania, (icpubli
tansl. Opposition to tho measure had coni?
chiefly from southern cotton mill
owners, and the group of southern
democrats who voted urolnst it had
fought in caucus and maintained
their opposition during the s.-nate de
bate on the ground that it is uncon
stitutional and would Interfere with
the rights -if the states. Eleven dem
ocrats from Hi" south. Senators
Swanson and Martin. Virginia; t'n-
rvvnod, Alabama: Vurdnninn. Miss
issippi; James and Heekham. Ken-
luck): Ransdell, I-oiilsiana; Itobin.n,
Arkansas, an.! ul' r-rson and r-i -
pard of Texas, and Shields. Tenne; sc
ted for it. '
Ir. order to expedite consldea ion
of the measure if conf'rence. seaat"
onferces were appointed irnm'-diaiel;:
after the final vote was taken. The
onlv amendment adopted world cx-
nl the bill's provision to bar all
r. "lints of establishment! employing
hlldren from interstate eomm'M'v.
i'be house measure was directed only
against lhoe on vthih child lannr
aet iallv hid been employed.
Senator I'ora'i did not offer the
I'm-ndmcnt he h.'d drawn attaching
the Immigration bll -is 0 rider in
order to force action on it at t'is
pension. Amendments to ,raki Ue
rohibltlcn arplv onlv to children un
der II who could not 'cad m r write.
to nuke it nnply t children on
farms and to H'stpone its effective
date for two y?ars we voted do" n
Ttv' bill as passed would prohibit in-
.M-state commerce in tin otuc
nv mine or ouarrv in which .-hp.
dren under i nave nrcn riToin,o.
or in the product of any mill. cn-
nerv. workshop. . frKtnrv (.rmftin 'ac-
rlng establishment in which children
under 14 have been errnlove' or
which children hctveen 1' and 1K
have been employed, before six o do
the morninc or later tc:,r 1 in
th" evening. It would take ertect one
verr after ena.'iment
Trinir the rlosin" hours or iH-int"
todav Senator Tillman announced
southern cotton mill owiv ooixisirif
t'v bill nnd said (!; '"e be ne.
licved it unconstitutional he ni
tmntod to puonort l because of the
elfishnes.s of th interests nciitinr
it. He a'so iW'!-irc,i conres-- ,o-
much Influenced by the attitude r.r
labor interests.
I have been shocked. Fnid th" Sou' 11
Carolina senator. to re men l"
PoH'h Carolina r'eh. well ecnctei
rr...r. ho were V . illillT to swell their
dividends nt th expense of Htt'e
children. The vicl of sophistry "1
their letters could pot hide tneir
-earlessncsK. Their nbvi. stride''' rf
rhl"fe. 'i '1' H" 'l.Ud-rn toll that
nv H'" in ill'"'"-1- ! "i
wonder t tho or.rad ' o"-!to rm.i
(Continued on 1 om Two
Street Car and '
Auto Collide and
Soldier is Dead
DOVGLAS. Ariz., August 8. Flrr.t
Lieutenant James Connell. aged 50,
battalion adjutant in I he Fourth New
Jersey Infantry, died today at r hos
pital as a reRidt of injuries sustained
last night when a street car on which
he was riding collided with an automo
bile. The body will be sent to Hobo
ken, N. J.. Wednesday for interment.
In private life Lieutenant Connell
was an architect and one of the most
popular men of his regiment. A wile
and one child survive him.
Lieutenant Connell and Lieutenant
Harry ,p. Wright, also of the Fourth
New Jersey regiment, were sitting on
the steps of tU crowded street car,
bound for their camp, after spendipg
the evening in Douglas. The automo
bile in which four men were riding was
coming from the opposite direction
and ran into a hole made In connection
with street paving. Both the car and
the machine were going slowly when
Ihey met, but the impact was suffi
cient to hurl the two officers from the
car to the street. Kach had one leg
broken and Connell'a skull was frac
tured In uddition.
Lieutenant Wright's condition is not
dapfmiH.
An inquest will be held tomorrow.
PASSED BY SENATE
FEDERAL MEDIA TORS
HURRY TO NEW YORK
Republican A. P. Leased Wire voiced by President Gompcrs, ar.J
WASHINGTON, Aug. s. At the ! made public here tonight. The com
KugtftMioii of President Wilson. Jmlv iminicalion was on behalf of the ex
W Ij Chambers and (!. W. W. Hi.uk- je. utnc counsel 10 the secretaries of
' i of tii. I'nited Slates board of me- bi" Older ,t Railway Conductors, and
illation and com illation, leii Wash- I 'he l i other ho ds ot Railroad Train
ington tonight lor New Yor k to be I men and Locomotive Firemen and
on the tn'otind toroorrov. s hen the
representatives of the 4UU.00U railway
men threatening a strike e, nfer witn
the reprcsentath es of the carriers.
Martin A. Knupp, the tb.rd mem
ber of the board, now in ( 'oiinet ti. u:, I
also is expe. ted to rt n il New York I
tomorrow.
Coder the law the b tard is nol au
thorized to offer its si n ices until
asked to intervene by interested par
ties, or unless a l.reaK is imminent. 1 , xs ithout imposing upon the work
hut in view of the magnitude of the . t. necessity of cessation of Work
threatened trouble it was said tonight , h, fird.r to Bain trie ieneiits
that an offer to mediate might be
made should the employers and the
men fail to get together tornorro'v.
l'r-sident Wilson,' it w;iS said tonight,
v as r.nxious to have the board on
the ground.
That the American Federation f
I-il or stands squarely behind the men
in their demands for an eight-hour
(lay was made plain in a let.er ad
dressed to officials of the unions n-
0
D
ENING SPEECH OF HUGHES
ROUSES DEI1RATSI0OENIA15
ANO PUTS THEM BEEEHE
fFUpuhlkan A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. S. State-1
nfi-nts made by Charles K. Hughes,
republican nominee, in speeches at
Detroit yesterday, were characterized
as "false as to facts, and of misleading
substance" in telegrams sent by ad -
ministration officials tonight, alter a
long discussion of the subject by
President Wilson and his cabinet ty
day. The charges related to changes
in the coast and geodetic survey and
the census bureau.
Secretary Redfield, in Hinghamp
ton, N. Y., telegraphed to Secretary
Tumulty, denying the charges made by
Mr. Hughes, anil later sent a similar
telegram to Mr. Hughes. F.dwin F.
Sweet, acting secretary of commerce
in .Mr. ltedfield's absence, .also , tele
graphed Mr. Hughes, giving a detailed
refutation of the charges.
Mr. Hughes cited the retirement of j I believe that some twenty of those
E. Dana Dnrand as director of lftejwre made without seeking the ad
census and the appointment of Wm. (vice of the civil service commission:
J. Harris in his place, and the re
placement of o. H. Tinman as head
of the coast and geodetic survey by
Dr. tC Lester Jones. Mr. Kedf Ield's ',
telegram lo Secretary Tumulty fid
lows: "Statement of Hugljes respecting
appointments census and coast sur
vey in Detroit false, as to facts, and
of misleading substance. Y'ou may
say for ine, Durand of census retired
voluntarily, was not removed or re
tired. I recommended him to present
employment. Harris' rerovrnllinn was
not political. Made fine record and
promoted trade commissioner for
merit. Tittman, coast survey, retired
voluntarilv after my refusing one
resignation. Jones, his successor,
promoted for merit work, deputy com-
missioner fisheries, has made wonder-
ful record installing new life into ser-
(Special to The Republican)
TI'CSON. Aug., S. Today's session
of the Arizona Slates Federation of
Labor was chiefly devoted to speeches.
Secretary Tvcitmoe of the building
trades council of San Francisco ap-J
pen l-d for financii'l aid to assist in
the defense of Capiat! and Schmidt
who are being tried on the charge of
participating In the destruction of the
I i.s Angeles Times building in 1911.
The convention donated five hundred
dollars toward their defense.
Dr. Von Kleinsmid of the Univer
sity of Arizonn delivered .m interest
ing address upon general and vocation
al education of the young. Mother
Jones known everywhere as the toil
ers friend pleased the delegates and
aroused enthusiasm by her descrip
tion of wrongs and sufferings endur
ed bv men, women and children din
Ing siriken jn Colorado. West Virginia.
nnd Michigan. She commended Gov
ernor Hunt for bis stand for fair play
In the lute strike in the Clifton and
Moreno! district and said she was sent
here by the United Mine Workers
organisation which was In smypathy
with Arizona labor efforts.
Resolutions bearing on many sub
jects were introduced to be acted upon
later and the subject of county local
cntion nnd prohibition was by vote
denied consideration.
DONATE HEY TO AID IN
DEFENSE OF CAPLANIDSCI1IBT
Vacillating Hughes,
jT I
I Migineuien. In it Mr. Gompcrs said:
i is our most earnest hope tnat
tl.e railroad companies may be in
duced to lake a broadminded and hu
manitarian view of votir demand.
W.'ien the railway companies under
stand the full meaning of the eight
hour (lay a.'d realize the advantages,
moral and social, that will inevitably
result from its adoption,, they cannot
rei'ase to corn ede to the workers- the
I n of the oighl-hour day and con-
"Re.vaidless of whether your pur
pose is secured by the voluntary
agreement of the railway (ompanies
or whether it is necessary for the
men to .strike to obtain this just and
necessary protection, the American
IV'ien.tion of Labor pledges to the
brotherhood its support and sympaihv
in the effort to accomplish, that which
is fundamental for the protection and
betterment of the railway men."
Mr. Sweet's telegram to Mr. Hughes
follows:
j "In a speech at Detroit yesterday
j you are quoted as saying:
" 'We bad in the const survey an
; eminent scientist, a man who bad won
distinction in connection with his sci-
entific work, a man of very eminent
rank. lie was displaced to make room
for an excellent stock breeder and
veterinary surgeon
" In the coast and geodetic survey,
we have had a very extraordinary
condition, with'regard to expert places.
I mean places that were taken out of
lire civil service laws. I shall not go
into the exact figures. In the year
endir about April, It'll!, there u''e
taken out 14 that is, apHirrV tits
by executive action, removed fn m the
operation of the civil service laws.
to the number. I believe, of about 104
I believe that about 23 were made
after seeking the advice, and with the
approval of the civil service commis
sion, and i believe that tit! were made
in opposition 10 the advice of the
civil service commission.' ir the assertion of those rights, which
"In the absence of the secretary of ja'! recognize and only respect us for
the departmehf of commerce, J deem , maintaining. But if we are glib in
it my duty to correct some grave j speech, if we indicate that we are not
errors in the foregoing statement. Dr. jic.idv to meet the full responsibility
Tittman, superintendent of the coast ti. at our words imply, we are pushed
and geodetic survey, the .scientist Ui , a little further and a little further,
whom you refer, was not displaced. In until some fine day events occur which
February or March. ltM'i. he came toiamuse an implacable resentment from
my nffice.und told me that he had de-I one end of the country to the other.
tcrmined 1 to resign on account of iil
health. He said he had reached the
conclusion many months previous and
j had already purchased a place In
j Leesburg. Va.. where he expected to
make his home. I communicated this
- -
I 1 V lilt. 1 11H, U , 1 1 X dCiC A V, V 7
A big smoker will be given to dele-
" " ,,VV .1 . . .
it,.....,.., 1 1 , in inrr puria
of the Tucson Chainhtr of Commerce
on a motorcade to San Xavier mission.
Governor Hanly Is Notified
7 Nominated for Presidency
Republican A. P. Leased Wire , They predicted such action by 1920 or
INDIANAPOLIS, Aug. 8. The 1- sooner,
pan of "five million votes for prohihi- , ' .... . .
tion this vear," Was adopted bv tho!, T1,e notrfu-ation ceremonies were
party leaders assembled for the j ho1'' on thp n at Mr. Hanly's home
double notification of J. Frank Hanly, ! between showers. C. W. Haynes of
former republican governor of In
' diana, for president, and Dr. Ira
Landtith of Boston for vice president.
Virgil (!. Ilinshaw of Chicago, the
temporary chairman at the notifica
tion ceremonies, predicted that 5.000.
Oilo voters uil be reached before the'
end of the campaign.
The speakers admitted they do not
expect the election of the party's can
didates, but all asserted they hoped
the vote to be so heavy that the sub
mission of. a prohibition amendment
to the federal constitution will result.
RIRESSROK,
SHORTCOMINGS
DFDEMD'S. RULE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Aug. 8. Charles E.
Hughes tonight told an audience that
crowded Chicago's great Coliseum
the hall where he was nominated for
the presidency what he would do if
elected president of the United States.
Mr. Hughes charged the present ad
ministration with waste, extravagance
and vacillation. He declared that it
had not kept the country out of war,
but that it had fought an ignomino'UB
war in Mexico, and had withdrawn
from that war ignominously. He
charged the administration with hav
ing brought the country much nearer
to participation in the Kuropean war
than the counlry would have been
had the administration "stood for
American rights."
He declared that it was no more
possible to expect tariff protection to
American industries from a demo
cratic congress than it would be to
get "a revival sermon out of a dis
orderly house."
The nominee assailed the adminis
tration also for its appointments to
office, and declared that if elected, he
would appoint to office only men who
were well qualified.
Democratic expenditures for harbor
and rivers were also attacked.
"I propose that, we shall stop this
pork business," he said. "1 propose
that we shall have government in a -business
like way. We won't have
any more if I can stop it, of these
kiss me and I'll kiss you' appropria
tions in congress," The nominee said
he stood for a "business-like, respon-
aible budget," based on facts.
"I do not want any hot air in mine,"
he added.
The democratic party, Mr. Hughes
.said, was approaching the idea of a
protective tariff, "like a skittish horse
to a brass band." In 1M2. he added.
"the democratic platform had said, in
effect, that a protective tariff was un
constitutlifnal. "They say now that the European
war has changed the constitution of
the I'nited States." he continued.
"But do you think they are con
verted? They haven't got it in their
bones."
Mr. Hughes reiterated much of his
Detroit speech, regarding the admin
istration Mexican policy.
"It had no right," he said, "to com
mit this country to a course of con
duct which landed Mexico in anarchy,
left our citizens a v prey to the rav
ages of revolution and made our name
a word of contempt in a sister re
public." "We have gone forward." he said,
in speaking of the administration's
Mexican policy, "with a determination
'o be destructive, not constructive, to
destroy all they had."
As to the administration's foreign
policy, Mr. Hughes said:
"We have allowed o ir words to be
eaten tip by hesitation, by delay. We
have somehow or other convinced the
world that our talk is cheap.
"1 propose that we- have a new
birth of American purpose and cour-
age
e have no occasion to fear war
That is the danger of war.
"This administration ,has come
nearer to landing us in war by its
weakness than it would ever have
come had it stood faithfully for
American rights and had let it be
known that they would be defended.
"I believe that with our peaceful
pnrisises. our just -urposes, we have
no occasion to be drawn into strife, if
we are prepared, if we are dignified,
if we show that we mean what we
say. And I desire that as we look to
the future, we shall have American
citizenship, the proudest title in the
world: American administration the
best in the world. and American
honor the cherisheiVthought of every
American citizen.
Mr. Hughes spoke for nearly an
hour to a packed hall. The audience
cheered him for five minutes before
he spoke. A brass band perched in a
loft at the far end of the hall played
three stanzas of the "Star Spangled
Banner" during the demonstration, but
(Continued on Page Two)
- Portland, lnd.. was chairman of the
affair and introduced the speakers.
The declaration by Mr. Hanly that
le opposed the plank in the party
platform favoring the initiative, ref
erendum and recall was received. in
silence. All his other declarations,
were applauded, especially his refer
ence to the Mexican situation and his
condemnation of the policy of th
present administration in the matter.
The ceremonies closed tonight with
a public rally at which Mr. Hanly
find Mr. Landrith were the speakers.
