ifeii (Off kn Stairarir wTI
WEATH ERUtah : Genera.ly Falr 'V I W V (7 V W 4 lX VV'V "V ' 1
I - ! $25.0027.00. PP ' 1
! - FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. I
I ! ! H YC'r"N- 19- Rve Ce"ts- ' OGDEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 9, 1916. : Entered a, secon,cias, Matte, at the PostocJT I
IjRepublican Congressional Convention . ". r II
Adopts a Very Strong Prohibition Plank I
I Italians Cross Isonzo and
j Take 10,000 Prisoners
1 1 RUSSIAN FORCES WIN ANOTHER
j IMPORTANT VICTORY IN GALICIA
T
rV A
I Army Occupies Tysmenietsa, Eight Miles East of Stanislau,
i ! Breaking Through Austrian Lines on Fifteen-mile Front
Berlin Admits Austro-German Retirement Brit-
i; ish Meet Repulse on the Somme and Lose 400
.j Men Fierce Fight Continues on Verdun
m ; Front London Reports Advance
I North of Pozieres.
I ; Petrograd, Aug. 9, via London, 1 :30 p. m. Announce-
, ment was made today by the war office that the Russians have
, occupied Tysmenietsa in Galicia on the river Vorone. On
t j August 7 General Letchitzky's army took 7,400 prisoners, in-
y j eluding 3,500 Germans and 63 machine guns.
0) . Tysmienitsa is about eight miles east of the important
i Galician town of Stanislau which is on the railroad between
Lemberg and Kolomea. It is over this ground that the Rus-
sians achieved their recent important victory, announcement
of which was made yesterday, breaking through the Austrian
lines on a front of fifteen miles.
i t Austro-Germans Retire.
JJ& Berlin, Aug. 9, via London, 5:15 p. m. Soujh of the
a Dniester the forces of the central powers have been withdrawn
5J ' behind the Niznioff-Tysmenietsa-Ottwnia line. This retire-
'SS ment by the Austro-Germans was announced officially today
18 kv the German army headquarters staff.
9 Rome, Aug. 9, via London, 5:52 p. m. Italian troops
fl ( j have crossed the Isonzo in the vicinity of Gorizia and consoli
TtO j dated the further bank, the war office announced today. (De
ll 1 I cuPatin f tne heights west of Gorizia has been completed.
'M ! Italian cavalry is pursuing the Austrians beyond the river.
m . Italian troops entered the Austrian city of Gorizia this
S morning, the war office announced today. Thus far 1 0,000
H Austrians have been captured.
I London, August 9, 3 : 1 5 p. m. The Austrians, pursued
19 by Italian cavalry, have abandoned nearly all their principal
M positions on the Isonzo and Carzo fronts, following the taking
M of the Gorizia bridgehead by the Italians, according to a wire
Sfl ! less dispatch from Rome this afternoon.
fS ; ; Officials here confirm news dispatches to the effect that
fl ! Gorizia is entirely in the hands of the Italians.
I London, Aug. 2:36 p. m. A further advance by the
J9 British on. the Somme front of Pozieres was announced by the
war office today.
11 ' Amsterdam, Aug. 9, via London, 4 : 50 p. m. The Tele-
M ' ! graaf publishes a dispatch from the frontier saying great sup
'J plies of war material have been burned in a fire in German
: magazines at Aerschot, Belgium.
tc?- .
1 Berlin, Aug. 9, via London, 5:17 p. m. Attacks by the
i - British and French north of the river Somme have been check
$4 ed with heavy losses to the assaulting forces, the war office an
il nounced today. Nearly 400 British were taken prisoner and
' six of their machine guns captured.
W -
K'j Paris, Aug. 9, 11:10 a. m. A Havas
. j dispatch from Rome says the Italian
flag now flies over the defense of
W- 'l Gorizia. After three days of violent
If 1 fighting in which the cavalry was
i finally brought up to reinforce the
Jfc : Infantry, all the defensive works of
the -city, which had resisted the ad-
vance of the Italians, fell into their
hands.
,fj Reports show, the correspondent
' jj 1 mya, that the retreating Austrians
J are now being pursued by Italian cav-
m alry-
Immense Impression Made.
The success of the Italian has
wj$ , .created an Immense Impression
. .throughout the country. Rome, Flor-
! ,ence, Bologna nnd Milan are decked
'M .' ,"lth flags and demonstnitions are
being hold by great throngs.
v . J The offensive against Gorizia has
yj ; been planned for the spring, but was
jyi v delayed by. the Austrian attack in
' ? ' the Trentlno region. Its (prosecution
.J now is part of the steady pressure
;'v which the entente nllles arc exerting
- i j on various fronts and the taking of
'; ( .the defenses of Gorizia is regarded
. v M Rome, says the dispatch, as more-
"4vi !ly DreNiHlnary to an extensive move-
' i ment against the Austrian eastern
3 I wing, which some observers believe
may eventually prove a serious men
ace to Vienna.
Reinforcements Steadily pour In.
The Rome dispatch says the Italian
artillery dislodged the Austrians, af
ter which Italian infantry rushed
two successive Austrian lines of de
fense. Italian reinforcements were
poured In steadily from an under
ground passage, which had been dug
to within sixty feet of the Austrian
first line,
The Italian infantry advanced so
rapidly that the Austrian artillery
continued to shell positions from
which the Italians had advanced some
time before.
One of the surprises of the attack
was the use made by the Italians of
a new instrument by which large
bombs were hurled with fearful ef
fect. Some of these bombs tore
wire entanglements 'and pulverized
trenches, opening breaches through
which Infantry and cavalry were able
to pass freely. ,
The official statement follows:
"This morning our troops entered
the town of Gorizia.
"Early this morning in the Gorizia
sector after intense nrtlllery prepara
tion our troops completed occupation
of tho heights west of the town, driv
ing out the last remaining hostile de-
I .
tachments. Trenches and dugouts
were found full of the 'bodies of Aus
trian soldiers. Their army, com
pletely routed, had left large quanti
ties of arms, ammunition and ma
terial. ' "At nightfall detachments of the
Casale and Pavia brigades crossed the
Isonzo and consolidated themselves
on the left bank, a column of cav
airy and bersaglleri cyclists promptly
launched a pursuit of the enemy
beyond the river. In they meantime
our engineers were throwing new
bridges across the river and repair
ing those damaged by the enemy.
"On the Carso plateau, our troops
repulsed several counter attacks on
the summit of Monte San Michole and
captured more trenches in the neigh
borhood of the village of San Mar
tino. "Up to the present time we have
taken about 10,000 prisoners. More
are coming in. The exact quantity of
material taken by us has not yet been
ascertained, but It is very consider
able." Paris, Aug. 9, 9 a. m. The German
mado violent attacks last night on the
positions taken by the French north
of Hem wood on the Somme front,
during tho last two days. The official
French statement of today says these
attacks were frustrated. The fighting
continues.
On ,the Verdun front heavy fighting
continued during the night for posses
sion of Thiamont work. The Germans
gained a further footing. The French
hold the outskirts of the work. In
the village of Fleury, the -French
made some progress.
The text of the statement says;
-r-oNorth-col the river Somme last
1 night was marked by violent counter
! attacks on the part of the enemy
I against the positions conquered by us
yesterday and the day before, north
of the Hem wood. These, endeavors
were broken by our fire. They cost
the Germans heavy losses and were
repulsed except at one point, where
the enemy succeeded in re-occupying
one of our trenches. A French attack
shortly afterward resulted in the re
capture of a larger part of the loBt
ground. Our advance In the trenches
still occupied by the enemy Is being
actively continued with hand grenades.
"Between the Hew wood and the
river the Germans have bombarded
I with hftavv r.alibor shells the new!
French positions which we were or
ganizing. "In the region of Chaulnes tho ar
tillery fighting has continued on the
Avre with intensity, particularly be
tween Lihons and the Chaulnes rail
road. Here the Germans attacked our
lines and at one point they penetrated
into our advanced positions. An Im
mediate counter attack with the bayo
net drove them out.
Germans Gain Footing. '
"On the right bank of the river
Meuse there was fighting part of last
night around the Thlaumont work.
Here the enemy gained a further foot
ing, 'after numerous attacks which
were repulsed by us. Wo are In pos
session of the immediate outskirts of
this work, which our artillery' Is now
bombarding with energy. In the vil
lage of Fleury we have made some
progress with hand grenades. An at
tack of the enemy upon the trenches
In the Vaux,-Chapitre wood has been
repulsed after spirited fighting.
Aviators In Combat.
"On the Somme front aviators have
delivered aerial attacks. Six German
machines seriously damaged, descend
ed precipitately within their lines. A
captive balloon of the enemy was
destroyed on the night of August S-9.
One of our aviators has thrown down
projectiles on the powder factory at
Rottweil on the Neckar. One hundred
and fifty kilos (330 pounds) of ex
iplosives were thrown down on the fac
tory buildings and as a result two
very extensive fires and several ex
plosions were observed. This machine
left at 8:30 p. in. and was back from
its trip at 11:55 p. m., having ac
complished at night a raid over a dis
tance of 350 kilometers (217 miles),
which was rendered particularly dif
ficult by the necessity of going over
the Vosges mountains and the Black
Forest,
"Furthermore, on the night of Au
gust S-9, other French aeroplanes
threw down shells upon the railroad
stations at Audun-le-Roman, Iongue
yon and Montmedy, and 88 shells upon
the railroad line at Terguier and the
station at La Fere,"
In tho region of Chaulnes the Ger
mans penetrated the French lines be
tween Lihons and the Chaulnes rail
road, but were expelled at the point
of the bayonet,
A French aviator Bet forth at 8.30
o'clock last night on a voyage in
w"hlch he covered 350 kilometers (217
miles), returning at 11:55 o'clook.
He crossed tho Vosges mountains and
the Black Forest of Germany.
Joffre Continues Relentless Fight.
Paris, Aug. 9, 12:35 a. m. -General
Joffro's methodical offensive con-
tinues relentlessly its slow pressure
in both theaters of the western front.
On the right bank of the Meuse
General Nieville has extended his of
fensive to the Vaux-Chapitre-le-Cho
nois region where he has gained u
local success. In the Fleury-Thiau
mont zone he is more than holding
his own. In the latter district tht
Germans are concentrating all thel:
effort and exceptionally strenuous
fighting continued there throughout
the night and day. The Germans suc
ceeded once more in getting a foot
ing in the Thlaumont work, but all
their efforts to capture the French
trenches on the commanding posi
tions to the northwest and south
proved In vain. In consequence their
position became untenable and a well
directed counter attack 'forced them
back, leaving the French again in pos
session of the work.
North of the Somme from the river
to where the French line joins the
British, General Joffre, acting In
closing relation with General Halg.
has made systematic progress. In
the last three days the French have
won trench after trench along a line
four miles In length and have pushed
forward their whole line for a distance
of half a mile.
New Italian Campaign.
Rome, Tuesday, Aug. 8, via Paris,
Aug. 9, 1:15 a. m. The successes
won by the Italians on the Isonzo
front are regarded In Rome as mark
ing merely the beginning of the new
campaign. Although the news is re
ceived with great satisfaction, it had
been long expected and no surprise ia
expected nor have their been any un
usual public demonstrations. The at
tack was to hae. ,ben. inaugurated
earlier' In The summer but was delayed
by the Austrian offensive.
"At last our waiting, planning and
steadfast faith are bearing fruit," says
the Glornale dTtalla.
Lutheran Schools to Close.
Melbourne, Australia, Aug. 9, 9:25
a. m. The government of Victoria
has under consideration a proposal to
close all the Lutheran schools in the
state. It is expected that action will
be taken In the near future.
Turks Capture Armenian Towns.
Constantinople, Aug. 9, via London,
5:11 p. m. Turkish troops yesterday
captured from the Russians the Ar
menian towns of Bitlls and Mush, it
was officially announced today by
the Turkish war office.
London, Aug. 9, 4:10 p. m. From
seven to ten Zeppelins took part in
a raid early today, according to an of
ficial statement this afternoon. About
160 bombs were dropped and 23 cas
ualties were caused, says this state
ment, supplementing tho earlier an
nouncement. The commanders of the airships
seemed in doubt as to their where
abouts, as they frequently shut off
the engines and hovered" in the air
for minutes at a time.
The raider which visited Scotland,
flew over a sparsely populated dis
trict and its bombs were dropped In
fields and on hillsides.
Another raider dropped twenty-six
bombs In the open ground between
two villages.
Obstinate Fight is On.
Petrograd, Aug. fl, via London, 5:19
p. m. The war office announced to
day that the Armenian towns of Mush
and Bitlls have been given up by the
Russians, owing to the pressure of the
Turks. Obstinate fighting continues
In tho regions of Mush, Bitlis, Varsk
on, Rmijsk, Sznesk, Senesk, Ivher
mangsan and Khanazan.
oo
Hi
While nine customers stood with
their faces to the wall in the High
land Boy store at Bingham this morn
ing, three holdups armed with rifles
compelled the clerk, Edward Civizkl,
to open the safe.
With $3000 in currency, the robbers
took tu the hills. Hardly had they
loft the Btore when the proprietor,
E. Zwlckey, arrived from the bank
with $40,000 he had just drawn for
the Highland Boy payroll. The rob
bers, who wero Mexicans, wero fol
lowed by Sheriff Corless and twenty
men. They abandoned their horses
and were captured in the brush
where thoy had attempted to conceal
thsmselves. The monev was recov
ered. '
STRIKE
AVERTED
Railroad Brotherhoods
Accept Proffer of
United States Media
tion Board.
New YorK Aug. 9. The threatened
strike of the 400,000 railway employes
of the United States was averted to
day when the railroad brotherhoods
accepted a proffer of the United
States board of mediation and con
ciliation to mediate their differences
with the railroads.
Announcement of the acceptance of
the offer was made by A. B. Garret
son, head of the conductors' brother
hood, after It had been delivered by
G. W. W. Hanger, a member of the
board, following an appeal to that
body to Intervene made by the na
tional conference of rrailroad mana
gers. Board Must Be Prompt,
Mr. Garretson saldbe had. inform
ecl' the board "that fhe offer was ac
ceptea on the condition that "its gdod
offices are promptly exercised."
The federal board, which is c6m
poBed of Mr, Hanger, Martin A.
Knapp and Judge W. L. Chambers,
was prepared to begin conferences
with the respective sides to the con
troversy before night, it was under
stood, although at the time of Mr.
Garrotson's announcement the board
had not been officially informed of
the acceptance.
"The federal board of mediation
and conciliation has notified us" read
Mr. Garr.etson's statement, "that it
has received the request of the man
agers' conference committee to ex
orcise its friendly offices in an effort
to bring about an amicable settlement
of tho questions that exist between
the conference committee of the man
agers and ourselves. Our answer was
to the effect that we would accept
the mediators' proffer of their friend
ly offices provided it was promptly
exercised."
The procedure of the federal board
is to meet each side separately, learn
their attitude and attempt to obtain
concessions from each as a basis on
which a settlement can be reached
when they are again brought to
gether After the delivery of the brother
hoods' acceptance of the offer, the
federal board, the mediators made
arrangements to confer with the rail-
rnnrl mnnnpprn ihia nftprnnon
Chairman Lee's Statement.
Chairman Lee, in rejecting the bro
therhoods' demands and proposing
mediation, made a statement in part
as follows:
"After much consideration it is our
judgment that the proposals which
the men have submitted by their vote,
involving such extraordinary changes
in operating methods and such radical
revision in established 'bases of com
pensation as to make It apparent that
there is little probability of our being
able to harmonize our differences of
opinion, unless this report can be
brought about through the federal
board of mediation and conciliation,
which was created to assist the parties
in just such circumstances as now
confront us.
"The national conference commit
tee ot the railways is as sincerely
anxious as your committee can be to
reach some amicable adjustment of
the matters Involved in the present
controversy, but we are convinced
that in the end we shall have to in
voke the friendly offices of the fed
eral board of mediation.
"It 1b not open to question that
whatever we can do bv direct nego
tiations we also can do just as qujek
ly and as effectively through media
tion; and experience has demon
strated that a common ground could
be reached through the mediators In
cases where the parties have -been
wholly unable to reach such' common
grounds through direct negotiations."
Stock Market Buoyant.
The acceptance of the mediation 1
agreement by the railroad employes i
was followed, by buoyancy in tho stock 1
market. Leading shares were 2 to 4 1
points higher in the late afternoon
on the liveliest dealings of recent
week. ,
Industrial shares wero similarly 1
affected, United States Steel leading 1
tue movement in that quarter with an
advance of 1 1-2 to 88 3-S, Its best
Price since last January..-. - ' 4l
i
Hoyt of Weber and I
Howell of Cache l
Leading Candidates 8 1
' I
On the first ballot, Hoyt of Weber was far in the lead on
the Congressional Nomination. The vote was : Hoyt," 1 77 1
Howell, 91 ; ODonnell, 73 ; Johnson 77. '
The First district congressional
convention was called to order In the
Orpheum theatre at 2 o'clock. Al
though not as spectacular as the state
convention, Interest was not lacking
and some confusion resulted from the
failure of the temporary chairman,
Lewis Larson, to arrive. This ruffle
was smoothed over when Joseph Eck
crsley, the vice chairman, took the
chair.
He proceeded with the order ot
business as prescribed.
At this time, Lewis Larson, the
temporary chairman, who with others
was made permanent officers, went
on the stage. His arrival was made
the occasion of demonstration. He
said he was a returned Bull Mooser,
but didn't expect the convention to
kill the fatted calf for him.
He dwelt at length upon the split
in the Republican party four years
ago, and explained why he became a
Bull Mooser. He said he returned to
the party because the function of the
Bull Mooser departure had been per
formed. He said he never had a po
litical axe to grind and that he was
as strong a Republican now as he
was a Bull Mooser four years ago.
"Don't you good people forget the
distinction between the politician and
statesman. The' politician is looking
to preserve the Interests of the partj
while . the statesman- -Is continually
looking after the interests of hi
country."
He urged the delegating of more
power to the people, since he said
there Is a tendency toward extend
ing government control.
He indorsed- Hughes and Fairbanks
and referred to them as men who
would represent the best interests of
the nation.
FOR PROHIBITION.
Tho convention went" on record for
nation-wide prohibition when It
adopted a resolution by R. H. Lund
of Washington county that the con
gressional nominee work toward thai
end. The vote was almost unani
mous, there being only one dissent
lug vote.
It was decided that the vote be
announced by the chairmen of the
delegations when roll is called.
The nominating speeches were 11m
ited 10 five minutes.
George Higgins of Millard countj
nominated Hon. T. C. Hoyt of Webei
county.
R, S. Collott of Duchesne named
Thomat W. O'Donnell of Vernal.
A. B. Bowen placed Joseph Howell
in nomination.
Joseph Eckersley, first vice chair
man, took the chair while Lewis Lar
son nominated Judge Jacob Johnson
from San Pete county.
Joseph Eckersley seconded the
nomination for Josejh Howell.
Ualloting began at 3:15.
Practically all arrangements for
the First district Republican conven
tion now being held in the Orpheum
theatre were completed this morning
when the congressional committee,
composed of a representative from
each county delegation in tho dis
trict, selected temporary offices of
the convention in caucus in the Reed
hotel. The caucus was called to or
der by Chairman Burton at 11 o'clock.
For" the purpose of selecting its con
vention organization and representa
tives for the convention committees,
the Weber county delegation caucus
ed in Judge J. A. Howell's court room
in the county building. This caucus
was called to order by W. C. Hunter,
the temporary chairman. Joseph R.
Jcppson and W. E. Zuppann, the tem
porary secretary, were made the per
manent officers.
The selection of Samuel C. Powell
ns a member of the committee on
permanent organization and order of
business over D. R. Roberts, a sup
porter of Congressman Joseph How
ell, by the vote of 30 to 10, showed
what strength T. C. Hoyt could ex
pect from the county in the conven
tion. James R. McFarland was named
the credentials committeeman and
William Moyes the committeeman on
platform and resolutions.
Weber county is represented in the
convention by 74 out of the 419 dele
gates from the various counties in
the district.
The new congressional committee
will have charge of the campaign of
the nominee from the First congres
5lon?l district, 'this function hereto
fore being that of the state commit
tee. Temporary Officers.
At tho caiicus of tho congressional
committee in the Reed hotel the fol
lowing temporary officers of the con
ception were relected:
Chairman, Lewis Larson, San Pete.
First vice chairman, Joseph Eckers
by, Wayne. j
Second vice chairman, A. W. Hors- 11
ley, Carbon, m
Third vice chairman, Wilford Day, I
Fourth vice 1 chairman, W. J. Tre- '
gouingA Juab. 1
Secretary,- Joseph OTJell, Cache.
First assistant secretary, H. M.-Sar- I
geant, Garfield. ii
Second assistant secretary, Charles w
J. Wolquist, Wasatch.
Sergeant-at-Arms, J. M. Brown, San $
Pete. I
Assistant, Alma C. Dally, Juab. 1
Henry Thompson, Emery. m
Chaplain, M. M. Slute, Sr., Millard .-
county. ,
Thomas A. Burton, chairman of the j
congressional committee, announced ,J
that there had been some misunder- , 1
standing as to tho time the conven- M
tion shoud be caljed to order. 'He
said some had the impression it I
would be convened at 1:30 and oth- '3
ers at 2. The temporary chairman, J
Lewis Larson, failed to arrive on 4
time and the congressional chairman J
proceeded with the business of the
convention. jj
J. Francis Merrill of Brigham City, 1
secretary of the congressional com- 1 jH
inittee read the official call -for the I
convention and then announced- tem-
porary officers selected by the con- 'w
gresslonal committee at the caucus k
: this anorning.- . wl
On motion of J. JT. Lund of Wash- H
Ington county the 'temporary officers ' jj
were made permanent, and the con- IH
vent ion was made a committee as a !'
whole on credentials and resolutions i! IH
anil platform. j IH
An amendment to make the roll
call the same as in the state conven- 'jl
tion was adopted. 1 I
Joseph Eckersley, first vice chair-
man then took the chair. He said
it was his function to -expedite busl- i
ness and therefore he would not take , I
up time of convention with oratory. ; I
Moroni M. M. Steele, Sr., chaplain,
offered prayer. !
A motion passed to allow a full 1
vote from each county, provided vote jl
is cast by delegates from that county. I
The first district apportionment is
as follows: jl
Vote for jl
Counties. Congressmen Delegates (I
Beaver 843 12 j
Boxelder 2108 30 H
Cache 3369 48 i
Carbon 1244 18 I
Duchesne 942 13 .jl
Emery 830 13 Ll
Garfield 63S .9 ;
Giand. ... . 227 3 ;
Iron 907 13 I
Juab 1297 19
Kane 437 G
Millard 1146 .-16 jj
Morgan .'. 523 ,7 ..fl
Piute 27S 4 JM
Rich 371 5 I
San Juan 220 3 fl jH
Sanpete 2953 42 J
Sevier 1758 25 1
Summit 1414 20
lUiDlah 656 9 1
Wasaich 1067 15 H
Washington 251 11 jl
Wayne 285 -i M
Weber 5167 74 1
29,481 419 ll
WAR BULLETINS jl
Defeat of Turks. ; f
London, .Aug. 9, 12:45 a. m. Press- I
ing the advantage won by the defeat
of the Turks who attacked the Brit- j jH
ish forces near the Suez canal, the ( jH
British have driven back the Turks j
to a line fifteen miles east of Katia. ;
The following official statement with j
regard to these operations was issued
here today:
"Telegraphing at 8:45 o'clock last
evening the commander-in-chief in M
Egypt reports that our pursuit of the n
enemy in the Katia district continues. Jl
North and west the Turkish rear guard J fl
have been pressed back, while south j
the Imperial Camel Corps, by a dash- ;
ing attack, drove them from their
entrenchments. We captured more jH
prisoners and the enemy rear guard I
has now retired to about a line run- ! jH
ning north and south through Blre- j
labd, fifteen miles east of Katia."
Paris, Aug. 9, 12.45 a. m. A de-
creo providing for a maximum price
of coal is published in the official W
journal. The price will be fixed by jH
the government after August 10. M
London, Aug. 8, 4:30 p. m. The M
British steamer Newbern of 3.554 tons,
has been sunk by a submarine, Lloyd's M
Shipping Agency announced .today. W
The crekw " was 'landed. M
