Brotherhoods Accept Proffer to Mediate Differences, Averting Threatened Strike
HARRISBURG • TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 182
BIG STRIKE OF
RAILROADERS
IS AVERTED
Brotherhoods Accept Proffer of the United States Board of
Mediation and Conciliation to Mediate Differences
With Railway Managers of Country; 400,000 Affected
OFFER ACCEPTED BY HEAD OF CONDUCTORS ON
CONDITION THAT SETTLEMENT IS MADE SOON
Federal Boards Ready to Begin Conferences at Once; Will
Meet Each Side Separately, Learn Views and Attempt
to Obtain Concessions From Each as Basis to Settle
New York, Aug. 9.—The threatened strike of the 400,000 rail
way employes of the United States was averted to-day when the
railroad brotherhoods accepted a proffer of the United States Board
of Mediation and Conciliation to mediate their differences with the
railroads. .
Announcement of the acceptance of the offer was made by A. B.
Garretson, head of the Conductors' Brotherhood, after it had been
delivered by G. W. W. Hanger, a member of the board, following
an appeal to that body to intervene made to-day by the national con
ference of railroad managers.
Mr. Garretson said he had informed the board that the offer was
accepted on the condition that "its good offices are promptly
exercised."
The national conference ot railroad managers to-day rejected
the men's demands and proposed that they be mediated by the
Federal tribunal. The brotherhoods refusing to join in an appeal to
the tribunal, at first and the railroads made an individual appeal.
The Federal Board, which is in session here, then offered its services
to the brotherhoods and were at noon aawiting the reply. The in
dications were at this time that the reply would be favorable.
Begin Conferences at Once
The Federal board, which is com
posed of Mr. Hanger. Martin A. Knapp
and Judge W. L. Chambers, was pre
pared to begin conferences with the
respective sides to the controversy be
fore night, it was understood, although
at the time of Mr. Garretson's an
nouncement the board had not been
officially informed of the acceptance.
"The Board of Mediation and Con
ciliation has rotifled us," read Mr.
Garretson's statement, "that it has
received the request of the managers'
conference to exercise its friendly
offices in an effort to bring about an
amicable settlement of the questions
that exist between the conference com
mittee of the managers and ourselves.
Our answer was to the effect that we
would accept the mediators' proffer of
their friendly offices provided it was
promptly exercised."
The procedure of the Federal board
is to meet each side separately, learn
their views and attempt to obtain con
cessions from each as a basis on which
settlement can be reached, when they
are again brought together.
Elisha Lee. chairman of the rail
road conference, in proposing that
their differences be mediated by the
Federal Board called attention to the
fact that the brotherhoods had pre
viously declined arbitration under the
Newlands Act, providing for six ar
biters, hut that the railroads saw no
other y out of their difficulties than
through/ mediation.
THE WEATHER
HorrUbnrg and vicinity: Fair
and slightly cooler to-night.
Thursday fair and warmer.
Eastern Pennsylvania: General
ly fair and slightly cooler to-night.
Thursday fair and warmer. Light
northwest to north winds.
River
/ The Susquehanpa river and all Its
branches will fall slowly or remain
nearly stationary. A stage of about
3.4 feet is Indicated for Harrisburg
Thursday morning.
Generul Conditions
A disturbance central over south
ern Jen England has caused tliun
ershowers In the Ohio valley and
generally from the Great Lakes
eastward to the Atlantic.. Scatter
ed showers have fallen In Tennes
see, Georgia, the Gulf States and
In southern Floridu and showers
have occurred generally in th<-
Roclty Mountains, the northwest
States and western Canadlun prov
inces and in Kunsus, Oklahoma and
Xew Mexico.
In Tennessee, the Ohio valley and
from the Lakes eastward to the At
lantic coast there has been a gen
erul fall of 2 to 10 degrees In tem
perature since last report and In
nearly all districts west of the
Rocky Mountains temperatures are
from 2 to 12 degrees lower thnn on
Tuesday morning.
Temperature—B a. m., 70.
Sun—Rises, 5.11 a. m.; Sets, 7.00
p. m.
Moon—Full moon August 13, 7
a. m.
River Stage—3.4 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Tempernture
Highest temperature, 1)2.
Lowest temperature. 70.
Mean temperature, 81.
Normal temperature, 74.
VACATION SEASON IS AT
ITS HEIGHT
Rest and recreation will not be
complete unless you have all the
news from home every day. Your
favorite newspaper, the Harris
burg Telegraph, will nil the bill.
Phone the Circulation Department
before you leave home. The next
issue will meet you, no matter
where you go.
Six cents a week, postage pre .
paid. j
BV CARRIER* fl CEJiTS A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
Want to Deal Directly
Mr. Garretson, reiterating the con
tention of the brotherhoods that in
previous attempts to settle differences
with the railroads through the fed
eral boards the brotherhoods had
failed to obtain satisfactory awards,
said that the unions believed they
could reach a settlement by dealing
directly with the railroads.
"I believe." he said, "settlement of
our differences can be much better at
tained by dealing directly with you
without the interference of a third
party."
Chairman Lee then announced that
he would nevertheless appeal to the
Federal Board of Mediation and Con
ciliation. This board was at the time
in session at a nearby hotel.
Railroads Appeal
Judge W. L. Chambers, chairman of
the United States Board of Mediation
and Conciliation, announced after the
adjournment of the meeting that the
railroads had formally appealed to
the board to mediate their differences
with the Union.
The board immediately prepared a
communication to the brotherhood of
fering its services which It was an
nounced would be dispatched to the
brotherhood chiefs at once.
Meantime, it was stated, the board
would remain in session to await the
brotherhoods' reply.
Waiting and Willing
It was Indicated by members of the
board that the communication was
being sent on the assumption that the
brotherhoods would accept their offer.
Both sides after adjournment went In
to executive session.
Mr. Garretson explained to news
paperment that the unions had not de
clined mediation unequivocally but
had refused to join with the railroads
in asking for it because they did not
believe in it at this time.
The brotherhoods' chief, together
with his colleagues. Warren S. Stone,
reiterated, that their position was that
they had not yet exhausted all the
possibilities by dealing directly with
the railroad managers.
"However," said Mr. Garretson, "our
position is something like Barkus, "we
are waiting and willing."
Lee Makes Statement
Chairman Lee, in rejecting the
brotherf.oods' demands and proposing
mediation, made a statement, in part
as follows:
"After much consideration it is our
judgment that the proposals which
the men have supported by their vote,
involve such extraordinary changes in
operating methods and such radical
revision in established bases of com
pensation as to maKe «c ai«r>arent that
there is little probability of our being
able to harmonize our differences of
opinion unless this result can be
Drought about through the Federal
Board of Mediation and Conciliation
which was created to assist the parties
in just such circumstances as now
confront us.
"The national conference committee
of the railways is as sincerely anxious
as your committee can be to reach
some amicable adjustment of the mat
ters involved in the present contro
versy but we are convinced that in
the end we shall have to invoke the
friendly offices of the Federal Board
of Mediation.
I» is not open to question that
whatever we can do by direct nego
tiations —we can also do Just as quick
ly and as effectively through media
tion: and experience has demonstrat
ed that a common ground could be
reached the mediators in cases where
the parties have been wholly unable
to reach such common grounds
through direct negotiations."
WILSON IN TOUCH
By Associated Press
Washington, Aug. 9. —President
Wilson was advised to-day by Secre
tary Wilson of developments in the
threatened railroad strike. Secretarv
Wilson, it was said, at the White
House will remain for the present in
550 far be has not ad
vised the President to take any for
mal steps in the situation. He is
keeping in close touch with the mem
bers of the Board of Mediation and
Conciliation who are in New York to
day to proffer their services at the
most opportune time.
JiARRISBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY EVENING , AUGUST 9, 1916.
OUR OWN STATE
HIGHWAYS BETTER
THAN NEIGHBORS'
Pennsylvania Roads Compare
Splendidly With New Jer
sey and New York
NOT MAIN ARTERIES
President Jennings, of William
Penn Highway Association,
Tells of Trip
Pennsylvania roads as a rule are
better than New Jersey highways and
equally as good as New York's arter
ies of travel according to President
William Jennings of the William Penn
Highway Association.
President Jennings has just re
turned from an automobile "swing
'round the circle" that Included many
of the sections which are somewhat
off the beaten path of tourists so that
he had ample opportunity to make the
comparisons under all conditions.
The trip covered something over
950 miles and included the eastern
sections of Pennsylvania western New
Jersey southern and eastern New York
and back again through northern
Pennsylvania.
"All of Pennsylvania's roads as a
rule, I found are better than New
Jersey's," said President Jennings,
"and it's hard surface highways are
as good as New York's although not
so numerous perhaps. New York's
dirt roads, I think are better. Cer
tainly Pennsylvania's State Highway
Department is to be congratulated on
the work it has done for the roads
of the Keystone State thus far. My
trip took in the mountainous districts
of Pennsylvania too, so that X didn't
follow the beaten lines of the main
arteries of travel."
President Jennings said he has had
assurances from the State Highway
Department that the work of rilling
in along the Northern Central Rail
road south of Clark's Ferry in accord
ance with the contract entered into
with the railroad company, will be
started in the near future. To date
however there has been nothing done
on the job. The new William Penn
highway is to follow this route.
Amendments on Barring
Child Labor Products From
Commerce Holding Bill
By Associated Press
Washington, Aug 9. An agree
ment between the House and Senate
on one amendment was all that stood
in the way to-day of the enactment
of the child labor bill. The measure
passed the Senate late yesterday by
a vote of 52 to 12. It now goes to
the House where it already has been
passed.
The Senate was spurred to final ac
tion on the bill by President Wilson's
insistence on its passage. Opposition
to the measure came chiefly from
Southern Democrats who contended
that it was unconstitutional and would
interfere with State's rights.
The House is expected to concur in
the only amendment adopted by the
Senate. It would bar all products of
establishments employing children
from inter-State commerce. The House
bill was directed against those pro
ductions on which child labor actually
had been employed.
House Opposition to Big
Naval Program of Senate
Is Rapidly Dwindling
By Associated Press
Washington, Aug. 9. Effective op
position in the House to the Senate's
big naval building program, includ
ing four dreadnaughts and four bat
tlecruisers for 1917. has given way be
fore administration pressure, those
favoring the more extensive plan be
lieved ro-day.
Chairman Padgett of the House
naval committee has decided to with
draw his opposition to the Senate's
naval Increases, Majority Leader Kit
chin announced yesterday after Mr.
Padgett had discussed the subject
with President Wilson. Senator
Swanson, ranking Democrat of the
Senate Naval Committee, declared a
canvass of the situation removed all
doubt that the House would accede
to the large building program, the
three-year continuing policy and the
increased personnel provision.
The House was expected to adopt
to-day the conference committee's re
port on the army appropriation bill
and the measure then will go to the
President. The Senate approved the
report yesterday.
MAJOR EVERETT WARREX
LEAVES $ 108,000 ESTATE
Special to the Telegraph
Scranton. Pa., Aug. 8. By the will
of Major Everett Warren, lawyer pro
bated to-day St. Luke's Episcopal
Church is to receive a bequest of $8 -
000 to be used in parish work.
The remainder of the estate esti
mated at $400,000, goes to the widow
and family of three children.
ROBERT GRAU DIES
By Associated Press
Mount Vernon, N. Y„ Aug. 9 R o b
ert Grau, formerly a theatrical and
concert manager and one of the best
known figures in dramatic and musi
cal circles years ago died vesterday at
his home here of heart disease He
conducted the tours of some of the
most famous concert stars, including
Adeline Patti. for whom he was man!
ager for many years. He was the
author of several books dealing with
art and the drama and was a brother
of the late Maurice Grau, formerly
manager of the Metropolitan Opera
House.
TETANUS VICTIM MAY DIE
William Himes, six-year-old son of
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Hlmes. 38
North Summit street, is In the Harris
burg hospital In a critical condition
suffering from tetanus. The child
while playing several days ago. ran a
large splinter Into his right foot. Later
It was removed, but tetanus developed
and the child was taken to the hospital
this afternoon in convulsions.
BORDER CAMP AS FOUND BY LOCAL
TROOPS AND AFTER TENTS WERE VP
iipL *M... ~ * « x '*
< •» " >: "
i , :
'•■ ■ .. . 5 ,., , ii»<iiv.w .-»-.
*
*•
The upper picture shows Camp Stewart, in Texas, where the Harrisburg
infantry is at present stationed. The lower view is of the camp site as it
looked when the soldiers arrived. They have transformed a cactus and sage
brush desert into a well-regulated military town, clear of scrub growth and
as comfortable as the situation will permit. The etchings were made from
photographs sent by friends at the border to C. H. Hoffman and J. M. Dailey,
of the Harrisburg Post Office.
STRIKING CARMEN
STICK TO UNION
No Additional Ones Heed Com
pany's Ultimatum; File Jitney
Petition; Parade Tonight
At noon to-day it was announced at
the Harrisburg Railways Company
offices that no additional strikers had
applied for their old positions in re
sponse to the company's "ultimatum"
and that no more applications will be
received from the men.
Forty-eight 01' the strikers, accord
ing to the officials, have left the union
and returned lo work since the agree
ment made with loyal employes and
the increase in wages.
Strike leaders said that final ar
langements had been made for filing
the petition starting the initiative and
referendum to have Council amend the
[Continued on Page 7]
ALL CROPS ARE
HEAVILY DAMAGED
Wheat and Corn Hardest Hit;
Potatoes and Oats Also
Suffer
By Associated Press
Washington, Aug. 9.—Continuation
of the damage to crops from weather
conditions and plant disease which
during July caused a loss of more
than a hundred million bushels in the
prospective production of wheat and
89,000,000 bushels in corn as indicated
[Continued on Page 5]
Two Probable Paralysis
Cases Discovered Here;
Physicians Investigating
Two probable cases of infantile pa
ralysis, one in Kdgemont and one in
Middletown, weifc reported to-day to
the State Department of Health. Dr.
C. R. Philttps, State medical officer in
Dauphin county, investigated the cases
and a report will be made to-morrow
with the diagnosis of the illness of the
children. The child in Edgemont Is
the Infant daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph Meadow croft and was being
treated by a local physician. Noticing
symptoms similar to those exhibited in
infantile paralysis cases, State authori
ties were notified. The other child is
Harolo Arnold, small son of Mr. and
Mrs. William Arnold, 435 North Spring
street. Middletown.
Chamber of Commerce
Considers Plans For
City's River Navy
At the meeting this afternoon of the
board of directors of the Chamber of
Commerce the letter of the "Greater
Harrisburg Navy" asking for the busi
ness organization's endorsement and
financial and moral support in the big
plan to permanently improve and de
velop the Susuqehanna river "basin"
was considered.
FIKST GAME
12 3456789 RHE
Scranton, £DOHIIO£DErai3Eei
Harrisburg, fflßirnrnnrnrnyinigEp
Batteries i UucUeanll and Brunnon; Huenki and Wkeat.
STATE APPROVES
RIPRAP SCHEME
*
Water Supply Commission
Permits New Treatment of
New Slopes
Full permission to proceed with the
proposed plans for permanently treat
ing the liver front slopes north of
Hardscrabble was granted this after
noon to the City Park Department by
the State Water Supply Commission of
Pennsylvania.
Because the plan provides for a re
arrangement of the entire slope line,
the State's permission was first neces
sary, and at a htjring before the com
mission this atternoon the Park De
partment's request was granted with
out demur. No objection was raised
to the scheme.
The plan provides for the filling in
[Continued on Page 7]
NAME MEMBERS
OF COMMISSION
Secretary Lane, Brandies and a
Third Man Will Try to
Settle Border Trouble
Special to the Telegraph
Washington. Aug. 9. Formal an
nouncement was made to-day by Act
ing Secretary Polk of the acceptance
of General Carranza's proposal for a
joint international commission to
seek a solution of border disputes and
to discuss other matters which may
help verify relations between the
[Continued on Page 7]
Another Heat Wave Coming;
May Set New High Record
Heat waves that promise something
new in temperature will be here within
twenty-four hours. They are ready to
pass in back of the cool breezes which
were moving eastward to-dav. With
the strong humidity yesterday, the
highest temperature reached was 92
degrees. Forecasts to-day were for
much warmer weather to-morrow,
with probably a new record for this
year.
The highest temperature to-day will
likely be 90 degrees. It was two de
crees cooler at R o'clock than yester
day morning at the same time. No
serious prostrations were reported yes
terday. Several persons were taken ill
and sent home. One man reported to
have been affecled by the heat during
the ball game at Island Park, it was
said to-day, had an attack of acute
indigestion.
FLTES OVEB BLACK FOREST
By Associated Press
Paris. Aug. 9.—A French aviator set
forth at 8.30 o'clock last night on a
voyage in which he covered 350 kilo
meters (275 miler). returning at 11.55
o'clock. He crossed the Vosges moun
tains and the Black Forest of Ger
many.
CANDIDATE SEES
REVIVAL OF TRUE
AMERICAN SPIRIT
Hughes Finds Hopeful Signs;
Strain of Campaign Beginning
to Tell on Him
PLATFORM SPEECHES
Dedicates Himself to Cause of
U. S. Government; Talks
at St. Paul Tonight
By Associated Press
St. Paul, Minn., Aug. 9.—The strain
of unaccustomd campaigning has
told upon Charles E. Hughes when
he reached here to-day. He was fa
tigued and his voice was hoarse. The
throat specialist accompanying him
urged him to save his voice for the
twin-city meetings and Mr. Hughes
consequently refrained except in one
instance from making back platform
speeches at five scheduled stops in
Minnesota before reaching this city.
Sees Hopeful Sign
At "Winona, Minn., Mr. Hughes
made a three-minute talk with his
[Continued on Page 5]
Now Seek to Get Subway
and Elevated Men to Strike
By Associated Press
New York, Aug. 9. Ail the street
car strikes in this city were over to
day and the customary service was
resumed on thi lines in all boroughs.
Organizers of the Amalgamated Asso
ciation of Street and Electric Rail
way Employes hastened their efforts
to induce all the employes of the
subway lines, the elevated and the
Brooklyn Rapid Transit Systems to
join the union. Union officials re
fused to say what plans they have
made to present demands to these
companies, but said they did not ex
pect to have to call another strike.
It was estimated that the strikes
on the various lines had cost the com
panies $600,000.
ONLY 1(19,061 IMMIGRANTS
By Associated Press
Washington, Aug. 9. lncrease in
population by immigration amounted
to only 169,061 during the fiscal year
of 1916. Statistics announced to-day
by the immigration bureau show the
influx of aliens was 4ewM«*haTi ft has
been in 18 years.
9 Ilarrisburg. City Council this afternoon asked the 1
1 Bureau of Health and Sanitation to co-opcrate with the JL
& Associated Aids Society i:i distributing free ice to needy |
' farr.i'ics of Ilarrisburg. Dr. J. M. J. Raunick will obtain I
|jj much of the data in the distributing campaign from the old 1 *
"ice fund'' list of the charitable organization.
MILLION LOSS REPORTED IN CLOUDBURST «>
4 Huntingdon, W. Va., Aug. 9.—Property loss exceed- 1
! ( ing a million dollars was caused by a cloudburst that swept a J
< ® down Cabin valley this morning, according to reports re- '
j ceived here"and rumors were persistent that more than a|»
i 1 score of persons had been drowned at Acme, W. Va. .These ' |
I rumors were denied by officials of the Acme Coal Company.
!! ■ TWO KILLED IN MINE EXPLOSION ' \
Scranton, Aug. 9.—Exploding gas in a shaft of one of
the Pennsylvania Coal Company's collieries at Inkertnan, ' k
Pa., to-day killed Thomas Martin and Bary Rumpa, miners,
and seriously injured three others, one of whom, William ® ►
Lynch< may die. jj"
LIQHTNING CAUSES BLAST; 12 DAED
Michel, B. C., Aug. 9.—Twelve men are known to be ® ?
dead to-day and several are believed to be missing as a re
suit of fen explosion last night in No. 3 mine. Lightning a f
which struck surface wires conducting power into the mine '
is supposed to have caused the explosion. I i
!ONE NEW INFANTILE PARALYSIS CASE !, .
Harrisburg.—One new case of infantile paralysis was
discovered in Harrisburg late this afternoon when Dr. J. i ►
Harvey Miller reported the case of George Sheriff, aged !
six months, 1405 South Twelfth street, to the City Bureau . »
of Health. Dr. J. M. J. Raunick, City Health Officer im- ,
I mediately quarantined the house, although the case is very
< » mild. ' '
ARMY BILL BEFORE PRESIDENT
< | Washington, Aug. 9. The army appropriation bill ' '
carrying a total of $267,597,000 now is ready for President
, i Wilson's signature. The House to-day adopted the con- • >
ference report on the measure, previously adopted by the
■
► iHAKMAu t. LICENSES
Ralph Snyder, Vumghiown, 0., and Elsie Jane Coble, Mlddletown.
t CUarlea Elmer Murtln and Euimi llojer, cHy. a J
CITY EDITION
12 PAGES
GORIZIA TAKEN
BY ITALIANS AS
RUSS CAPTURE
ANOTHER TOWN
10,000 Austrian Prisoners
Taken in Fall of City;
Forces of Gen. Letchitzky
in Tysmienitza
FORCES OF~CZAR NOW
ON BANKS OF DNIESTER
Right Flank of Enemy in Des
perate Position; Stanislau
on Verge of Falling
Gorizia is now entirely in Italian
liands, according to announcement in
London tliis afternoon. Capture of the
bridge head lie lore the city by the
Italians was officially announced yes
terday. The capture of 10,000 Aus
trians in the fall of Gorizia is reported.
The scope of the Russians south of
the Dniester in Galicia is being' en
larged, importaut progress for General
Letchitzky's offensive being announced
to-day.
Tysmienltza, eight miles east of
Stanislau on tlie Kolome-Lemberg line,
has been captured b> the Russians,
and Berlin admits Teutonic withdrawal
ilone tlie 25-mile front from Xiznioff,
on the Dniester, through Tysmeinitza
to Ottynia, on the main line railway
fifteen miles south of Stanislau.
The northwesterly thrust of the Rus
sians lias brought them to the banks
of Dniester, on the right flank of the
Austrian line along the Stripa, which
can hardly lioid much longer without
disaster should the Russians progress
further in their present direction. Oc
cupation of Stanislau, which now
seems on the verge of falling, would
give the Russians also an important
railway station junction point and fa
cilitate their advance on Lemberg from
the southeast.
This morning's Zeppelin raid on the
English and Scotch coasts was carried
out by from seven to ten airships,
which dropped 100 lx>mbs. Ix>ndon re
ports twenty-three casualties as a re
sult of the raid.
The new gains of the allies on the
Somme front in Northern France are
being held firmly in the face of heavy
counter attacks by the Germans ac
cording to the Paris official statement
to-day.
Two such attacks delivered last
night on the positions recently taken
by the French north of Hem wood aru
[Continued on Page 5]
