DAILY EVENING EDITION JHlb j N DAILY EVENING EDITION
The Kant Oregonlan baa the largeet boa! AtJL9 ' -V 1 1A Al Yll 41 1 rBSTEKDAV S HMT1IKI1 I)AT
2k".. Ko?;s:.,,ta';!r' '..'uu; 1 viV v Sn ) daily ( KNm v?'vlu!l 1 Mtx"'
far the largest circulation In lvndlei.in of anaagggiCS! CM ASWfT'WfiEftlJn krW if r mum, 57; rainfall. .OS; wind west
"'J newipaper. ttitt ,yJrL JilVvV5r if naananaaaask gentle;
CITY OFFICIAL PAPER -v345:y, .- COUNTY OFFICIAL PAPEB
VOL. 28
DAILY EAST OREGONIAN, PENDLETON, OREGON, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 9, 1916.
NO. 8883
Trainmen Accept MUMS OPEN A PATH 10 TRIESTE
Mediation, Action
To Be Immediate
TWO Mill! MEN BATTLING FIERCELY IN MIGHTY ASSAULT ON ISONZO FRONT
.
T
Noted German General Honored
M W D ffl DELIGH
Acceptance Comes as Great Surprise for'
Brotherhoods Flatly Refused Arbitration this
Morning; Personal Plea of Mediation Board
Members Believed Responsible.
NBH YORK. Auir. . The Rail
mwi Brotherhood repn-sentativi
have announced the) would accept
i ti-i'tii nMMmon provided tin- action
was tfcen Inuntsliaiely, . Tin- ucc.pt-
umv Is ii big surprise a tills morning
Uic BrotbeAooda flatly refused me-1
illation. The) changed Uielr mandi
after (he executive tendon. sl
It is beUevod Hie personal plea of j
rucsnben of the United Stall's inedl-j
iiiioii board caused the acoeptnce. I
The decision means ai least a inm-
IHineiiHiit f the strike. KcpresOniu
tives o! iHith shies beUOVed negotia
tion uill atari immodlateli.
County Pays High
Teacher Salaries,
Few Normal Grads
'KltlM I.NIi:T S RE P R T
.l I s INTIiUliSTIM. sl
Tls'i K s OH OOl'NTV
.schools.
CHILD LABOR BILL
WINS IN SENATE1
BY BIG MAJORITY
Adoption of Measure is Signal
Victory for Wilson Who Has
Backed it.
PASSED BY VOTE 52 TO 12
Though
teachers ,
than any
less than
her
John Dand is Dead
After Long Illness
With Heart Trouble
rmutiiia eounl
hilt her average salar
other OOUnty KCtpt out
l:i per lent 01 the whnl
I number implored last year were
I normal graduates, sooordin! to fig
i ures in the annual report of County
superintendent foung to State su
perlntendent ChurchllL
j During the past year there were
240 teachers employed In the couii-
Fullowing a long illness, John I Hind ty and only .111 were nuruial giailu
a pioneer Umatilla COUOtl farmer. 1 ales. The average salary paid in one
died at his home bar, lit B, Hlult I room schools wan $73.25. for aaeurt
street, this morning at II o'clock of j ant teachers in schools of more thai,
heart trouhle. The deeeaseil was 63 : one room. $77. .',3. and for principals
wars of age and was horn lb Toronto, . g 1 1 1, 34). ,The average monthly sal-
t'ajiada. He has lieen a resident Of I ary paid male teachers was It
Die county I
..f roan on
town.
He is iiur
Thiers. Mrs.
Uilng of Ff
of Walla Wu
Pendleton;
Leles. and ol
d li
It.
II,, Ml
lid Mai
living number
-in northwest of
a wife, five dau
Miners. Mrs. F, E.
; Mrs. K. T. Judd
1, Marran Smith of
el Hand of Lis An.
John I land of Pen-
die
Funeral
irri
Ills
not bean mi
An
Percy
thonv
I lM-nitioii
operation
i perfonned,
vas perfonned
l this morning
Ital.
Dl
as compared with IMi.iis lour yean
ago. The average paid female teach
ers was $74.27 as CO m pa red with
$C.V:i four years ago.
The number of popils of Behoof
age in the Bounty last year was 7"35,
1674 of whom were male and 3461
female. The number registered was
;Mi4l. The number enrolled above
the eighth grade was 300.
The percentage of attendance dur.
ing the year was IB. 7 and the average
dallv attendanoa 4,ri.10. The average
number of days of school taught vail.
(Continued on Page Eight.)
New I islcial LUM Prohibits the Ship-
incut iii ntoretnte oxnmerce ol
Products from An) Factor) or
tiuarrj Employing Child Labor, j
WASHINGTON, Aug. I, Preai-
di nt W ilson won another signal vic-
tor) today when the senate passed1
tile child labor bill by an overwhelm
ing majority. The vote was 52 to 12,
a proportion In favor of the measure
hardl) expected even by Its most ar
dent advocates.
The vote is considered all the mure
siguifl. ant in view of the fact that
PresidsMM Wilson insisted upon the
measure being Included In the legisla
tive program, despite the objection!
of members of his own purty.
Saved From -.iihuack.
Except for the president s action.
Ihe bill, which had overw helming I
sentiment behind it and which requir-!
ed only five days for Its consideration,!
would have been sidetracked for the I
present session, leaving its chances
at the following snort session in I
doubt.
Amendment! designed to cripple
AS FALL OF 1 POWERFUL CITY
APPEARS TO J INEVITABLE
Triple Offensive Is Slowly Crushing
Central Empires' Armies on Every
Front; Russians Gain Through
Caucasus; The British Advance at
Somme.
GORITZ IS CAPTURED
I
rseure -m vox rDm & ureG s"t.fis-
The German people have erected this monster statute at Berlin in
honor of General von Hindenburg This photograph was made at the
unveiling
(Continued on Page Four )
BIO INCREASE IN ENROLLMENT
Wheat Jumps Ten
Cents in Chicago
WHEN SCHOOLS OPEN SEPT. 11
The Pendleton public schools will
open September 11 This la the an
nouncement of i "Its superintendent A.
T. Park. A law Increase In enroll
ment Is expected in every school, es
pecially in the high school. Provided
the school eels its normal growth,
there will be 75 additional students en
rolled In the hlh school this year.
This will bring the total enrollment up
tn 350. The total city enrollment Is
expected to be between 1200 and 1300.
According in Prof. Park, there is a
big demand for vocational and a Voca
tional work, such i s Is helm; featured
In the Pendleton high school course of
study. The demand In this section
should be greater than In other places.
Miss Fay Dunham, fourth grade,
teacher of the Lincoln school, was(
grained a leave of nhsence for the first;
semester, by the school hoard at their I
meeting last night. Her position will
he filled by Miss Hovee of Pendleton j
who is a graduate of the Hellingham;
normal school.
j Miss Vesta Cutsforth, Ituttruotor In
the second grade ol tne waaningum
school, was granted :'. leave of uh-
sence for the second term to complete
'her work at the slate normal school.
The board elected Miss Rose Hain-
lllton as assistant to superintendent A.
,T. Park and substitute teacher.
CHICAGO, Aug. I. Wheal soared
tlie bJiUioal since voir just before the!
market's Hom' today, September
oloMd hi XI. II'.. It gained I Oft since j
la-l night. IK 1 1 Willi llliwsl at 11.484
having gained UK. The train pita re
semMed a madhouse at the close.
EDITORS TO COME ALLIES AIR
TO PENDLETON FOR RAID METZ
THE NEXT SESSION Kl LL 20 0
ROME, Aug. 9. It is announced the Italians captured
Goritz this morning taking ten thousand prisoners. This
great stronghold htfs prevented the Italian invasion of
Austria for fourteen months. After seizing Bridgehead ,
the Italians stormed the citadel. It is the greatest single
allied victory since the triple offensive began.
Goritz is a city with a population of thirty thousand. It
is the capital of the province and lies on the east bank ef
Isonzo. Mountains surround it on three sides. It is a
natural fortress. The ancient castle is its most notable
building with a famous fourteenth century cathedral and
i museum.
PETROGRAD. Aug. 9. It is announced the Russians have
I captured Tysmienica, seven miles east of Stanislau. Seventy
jfour hundred prisoners were taken. Stanislau's capture is im
; minent.
' r L. i . i ,L . n - j -i t- .
me uiui-iai statement, says lite Russians arove me leuions
from many heights and villages south of the Dneister. They
seized the right bank of the river Verona to Stockovchieva.
(John Harley.)
ROME, Aug. 9. Two million men are battling fiercely on
the Isonzo front in a battle which may decide the war. The
Italians are pouring across the river to the assault of Goritz.
They advanced under the hottest fire singing gaily. Their hel
mets are flower decked. Scores of huge guns are' pounding
Goritz. Rome expects the Italians to st,orm and capture the
stronghold within a few hours. Fifteen thousand Austrians
have surrendered. Italian cities are decorated and cheering
mobs parade the streets.
A tremendous wave of enthusiasm has swept Rome. Dis
patches brought fragmentary details of new fighting. A huge
crowd gathered at the Piazzi Colonna cheering the army, the
king and General Cadorna. Similar demonstrations were made
SPLENDID i:TEBTAIXMEXT W s
PROVIDED ItV PEOPLE OF
MKDFOKD THIS . E IR.
I'HK
Baal 1 1
prices:
Sept. .
Dec. .
AGO, Aug I, (Special to the
e4iiiian i - Today's range ot
Open. High. Low, Close
,11.44 $l.44 $1.38-i 11.44 V
.11.45 $1.484 11.41 II.4S,
Professor R. C. French Gives
... mm aw Q1
Strong Endorsement To The
Proposed Pendleton Normal
PORTLAND, Ore.. Aug. 9. Strong
endorsement for the initiative meas
ore looking to the establishment of a
slate normal school at Pendleton has
boon publicly given by Prof. Robert
C, French Of this City, former presl-j
dent of the normal school located a
Weston. Prof. French was for ai
number of years at the head of the
Normal School at Weston and 'was
still serving when that school was
iibandoned. probably no man knows
better than he the urgent need of a
Standard Normal School in an eastern
i iregon city with public schools suf
miently large to give the normal
students ample practice training
"No other section of Oregon Is as
dependent on Its putillc schools for
noclul and cultural Influences as east
ern Oregon.'" he said in discussln;
the measure.
"Professionally trained teachers
to the welfare ol enstrn Oregort coun
ure, therefore, even more necessary
ties than to more accessible sections
of the state.
"The previous history of the normal
school In eastern Oregon proves that
a large number of young people, to
whom other educational institutions
are not easily accessible, are ready to
avail themselves of the privileges of
fered by a normal school to prepare
themselves for community service in
public school work.
"An immediate establishment of
inch u school ut some central point
such as Pendleton, would prove n
great asset to the state of Oregon."
Portland.
PORTLAND, Ore.. Aug. I. (Spe
cial) Club $1.10; bluestem $1.15.
4 Heavy Sales at Dollar. 4)
4 t'lualilla county farmers arc 4)
4 rejoicing tislay as a result of a 4)
4 three ivnt raise In Ihe price of 4
4 wheat. Isical dealers an- free- 4)
ly offering SI a bushel. Dp to 4
4) a o'clock II was estimated that 7.
4 between 200,000 and 800,000 4
4 bushel- of wheal had been sold 4
4 today and It is thought that be- 4)
4 lore night the sales will Ik- by 4)
4 far the heaviest Of the season. 4)
4 One prominent Tni-mcr clinic into 4
an offliv Very excited anil ask- 4)
4 ed how much Was Ising offered
4 today. When told II, he turned O
4 around ipilekly and retreated 4)
saying. "I- Hull all?" 4)
4 0
3tat(
FRENCH AIRMEN FLY FAR
II GI K.
Pendleton Will lie host to the
Editorial Association at ita next an
nul meeting to be held in June or
July of IS 16 and among the newspa
per folk of the state there is much
Interest In the prospective visit to
this place The decision to meet In
Pendleton was taken by the execu
tive committee of the association st
a oieeuiig m v. '7"'The railway station and barrack
oilier IU lin ui jwicu im,j o,-o-j.v.ji
all withdrew In favor of Pendleton
because the spirit of the gatherum
was that the next annual meeting
should be held In eastern Oregon.
Following the footsteps of Medtoid
as an entertainer of the editorial as
sociation will prove difficult from
the fact that the southern Oregon me
tropolis carried out an elaborate pro
gram that was Mealy enjoyable to
the 130 representatives present. The
entertainment included aside from
iat the theaters and cafes. Crowds conducted all night patri
ZeDDellns Attack East ot'c celebrations at Milan, Bologna, Leghorn and Florence- The
Jr " . people believe Trieste's fall is inevitable.
Coast ot tngland, 4
Dead, 14 Injured.
people
The newspaper Corriere D'ltalia j choked the cave. The caverns be
said "This is onl) the beginning of came living timhs. At four p. m. the
operations promising great develop- j bugles sounded the charge Hundreds
nients. The enemy! front is broken." I of thousands of hardy warriors bound
The censor is permitting the publl-led into the fray. The spectacle re
cation of dispatches describing the f called the heroes of legendary lore,
drive. The attack started Sunday at : As the men shouted "Great It;ly For-
I daybreak. A steady Italian bombard-: ever.' Many wore floral garland
ment lasted nine hirers on a twentyl Men carrying big white discs upon
'mile front. The Italian fleet on the ! long poles ran ahead of the main
uniMr Adriatic shelled the Austrian i forces to guide the Italian ennnava.
us. . Dispatches de
., . ... ... . . . . . 1 uniier
ciami uuh me aiiie-s air-raided Viet. , , , . , .;,0h
lll'II W10n V'lIC MMIHIIVMraH
I dling two hundred German soldier-.! . No sucn awe-inspiring cascade of
were : fire was ever before witnessed. The
j shells produced an incessant, violent
earthquake like phenomena Seismii
seriously damaged.
LONDON. Aug. 9.- The allies migh
ty triple offensive is llowl) cr ihittl
the central empire's armlOf on everv
front The Au.irtans German! and
HEAD OF GREAT WESTERN
RAILROAD IS DEAD
A. B. Stickney Victim of Intes
tinal Trouble at St. Paul
Home.
ST. PAl'L Aug. I. A, It SI i. knew
founder of the Chicago Oreat West
ern railroad, died at his home here
today nf Intestinal troubles.
Beauty, of course. U an asset. Hut
the girls who have greenbacks, don't
have to worry over not having pink
faces.
several luncheons and a big banquet I
a trip over the beautiful Siskyou
Highway and a two day trip and visit
at Crater Lake the great scenic point
of southern Oregon.
On the Crater lke trip 14)1 atitos
were used to tonvey the editors anil
their Medford friends to the lake.
The distant e Horn Medford to the
lake Is S6 miles and the trip was
made by most of the cars in six
hours. The drive Is for some dis
tance along the ltogue river and in
cludes views of Hogue river falls, the
natural bridge ami other points of in
terest. The session of the editorial associa
tion at Medford was o successful in
tiivmiv q ti I waves spattered nouses on tne i oiruz i Turks are yielding tro ind In err
' 4U'" '' " ann,"",ceaj plain. Thousands of Austrian! sought war ,hcUter except the B Ik m . where
that Zeppelins raided the east coast ,-efuge In the vast caverns of the Car- skirmishes herald another great tl-
of Kngland and southeastern Scotland I so plateau. The shells cat sed tre-1 .
last night. One child and three worn-1 mendous landslides. Tons Of debris! (Continued on Page Eight.)
en were killed. Fourteen persons '
were, injured, t oast guards shelled
the Zeppelins, forcing a retreat. Huig1
reported that the Hritish gained north I
of. Posters! Inst night. They captured
twenty five derm am ami hand gran
ROUND-UP ONLY SIX WEEKS AWAY
aded the enemy trenches.
PARIS Aug, !.- -Flying in the dark
ness at a speed of sixty miles an hour
a French air fleet crossed the Vosges
mountains In the Black forest and
shelled the Herman city of Hothweil
on the Neckar river. They covered
two hundred miles in two hours and
five minutes. The bombs caused I
great fire and intense explosions. It
announced the French have conduct
ed many other successful air bomb
ing enterprises.
It is announced the French have
progressed through Floury village.
The Hermans have again aelaed Thlau
tnont. The tlermans penetrated
verv reaped that a large attendance French advanced trenches at Chnul-
is assured for the 1917 gathering. i ness. but later were ejected during a
Bipraaslnni from those in attend.; hot bayonet fight,
mice ot thl editorial convention wero
highly favorable to tne measure for, BERLIN, Aug, 9 It is announced
u Pendleton normal school. It bolnt the Germans have repulsed repeated
predicted that I'O per cent of the press Russian attacks on the Studied river
of the state will eiUter actively or In-1 front. They caused I liussian retreat
directly aid in the local campaign for fifty miles southeast of Kovel.
More Interest Manifested This Year Than eer
Before; Twenty-Seven Inquiries Lrom New
Jersey in One Day.
Only six weeks from tomorrow un
til Round-Up!
Mnny here, perhaps, have not real
ized the closeness of the great an
nual event. But It has not passed un
noticed by the great outside. Day bv
day there comes to the busy Hound -Up
headquarters pleas from all over
the United States to reserve seats for
lach day of the big exhibition and.
if possible, hotel accommodation!
Never before has such Interest been
manlfaatod la the Rouod-Cp. The
tickets have arrived and the date for
the sale opening will be announced
soon.
As soon as requests come into the
publicity bureau, valuable informa
tion is forwarded the latSrsatld par
ties. A large force are now tuigage l
in putting out the cowgirl and offi
cial ttound-t p posters. Twenty srv.
en inquiries were received In one dn
frum New Jersi ) .
ah corporation publication! in Ihl
northwest are mentioning the Ron ad-
l'p in their issues this month and
are suggesting a trip tn Psadlet ul
that time as a splendid iv f pass
Ing a rarat 'in, tine 'oliipaii) which
puts "Hi a month!) paper to a large
number of implores in ever) ert '
an) sine m the northwest will hnv I
pagl article with cuts in the Septem
ber 1 number.
