I
»l
VOLUME XXXVII.
COUNCIL PROVIDES
FOR IMPROVEMENTS
RESIDENTS ON FRONT STREET
WILL HAVE WATER AND
SEWER SERVICE.
CARNIVAL COMPANY ASKED RE
FUND FOR DAY OF NO
SHOW
Because they did not get ready to
up for business before the second
their stay in New Ulm, the
Campbell Carnival Company felt that
they should receive a refund of the $25
license paid for the day. This amount
I was voted by the City Council when
they met at the regular monthly session
last Tuesday. However, the Carnival
people failed to pay their electric light
and water bills and the refund just about
covers that and will be retained by the
city clerk, according to instructions
given him by the Council. The Carnival
wanted to show on the Sunday following
I, the three days they were here to make
up for the loss of receipts on Friday but
the Mayor refused them permission
after listening to representations of a
committee of citizens who protested
against Sunday carnivals.
B. Juni appeared before the council to
indicate an interest which he says
citizens in general are beginning to take
in the enforcement of city regulations.
He maintained that the council does not
back up the local police officers in doing
their duty that certain saloons are
allowed to run open after hours and that
automobile owners generally claim the
earth with a fence around it, his par
ticular grievance against them being
that owners of cars appropriate any
place they find convenient along Minne
sota Street to park their cars during the
day-
President Behnke told Mr. Juni that
the council is not an executive body and
that the authority to correct the abuses
"trtentioned must come from the Mayor.
Mr. Eibner said practically the same
thing and advised the complainant,
after thanking him for the interest
shown in city affairs, to interview the
mayor and get action from him with
regard to law enforcement.
City Clerk Backer brought up the
matter of complying with the recent
ruling of the state supreme court that
finemen and police officers come under
7Ja& provisiDns of the Workingmen's Com
V^pensation Act and should therefore be
provided for by increasing the amount of
insurance carried by the city on its
employes. The State Labor Commis
sioner had sent the suggestion and a
policy was submitted to the council
covering all city employes with the ex
ception of those at the light plant who
are already taken care of by a policy.
The Finance Committee will take the
matter under advisement.
Property owners along Franklin Street
are anxious to have it graded, graveled
and boulevarded between Center and
Fifth Streets, according to a peti
tion presented by Chas. Brust, Jr. The
Board of Public Works will give the
matter attention.
Property owners along Front Street
are also becoming impatient about im
provements in their section and a dele
gation of the residents of that neighbor
hood accompanied by Atty. A. W.
Mueller who represents them attended
he council meeting to urge immediate
action. Their cellars are filled with
water after every ram and conditions
call for quick action. The sewers de
sired will run from Center to Fifth
North Street and they also ask for an
extension of the city water mains be
tween Third and Fifth North Streets.
The work has been recommended by the
Board of Public Works and will doubt
less be started soon altho as many as
thirty-three lot owners are objecting to
the work. Alois Breu presented a
petition setting forth their objections,
but the majority seeming to favor the
project, the council instructed the city
'engineer to go ahead with the prepara
tion of a to and specifications.
Various small matters were brought
before tun council* The Ruby Theatre
license was granted upon the payment
,/ of $25 by Mr. C. J. Woodmansee, and
the various billiard table owners were
granted licenses to operate on payment
of $5 per table. The fees from this
source amount to $80 per year, the
largest contributors to the fund being
V*sC Lucas & Killand who operate seven
tables and Gust Becker who has four.
7 The other seven tables are located in as
many different saloons.
-t The street committee has purchased a
number of strict signs for the instruction
of drivers of vehicles. These signs bear
the words, "Keep to the right" and are
to be placed at the intersections of
streets where traffic is heaviest. A Ford
auto truck has also been purchased and
will be used by the electric light depart
ment. The cost was $480 and it is ex
pected that this amount will quickly be
saved in transportation costs since
charges for the use of teams are constant
ly advancing and there is considerable
need for a conveyance at the light plant.
Street work totaled 2406 hours of
hand labor and 823 hours of team work
during July, according to the report of
Street Commissioner Schemann, and
157 loads were weighed on the city scales
during July, as reported by City Scaler
Koehler.
Various bills were audited and allowed
and the Frensel liquor license was trans
ferred to Wm. Reardon, the present pro
prietor of the Travellers Exchange.
Building permits were issued to the
Rural Telephone Company for their new
building on German and Second North
and to Athenas Henle for the construc
tion of a garage.
At the Friday evening meeting of the
City Council, the specifications prepared
by the city engineer for boulevardmg
and other work asked by for the residents
along State Street North from Eighth to
Twelfth and for the laying of watermains
on North State and North Front Streets
were approved and the city clerk was
authorized to ask for bids for this work.
The requests for bids on this work will
be found in another column of this issue.
BUILDING BOSSES
ENJOY BIG OUTING
LUMBER MEN, CONTRACTORS
AND CARPENTERS PICNIC
TOGETHER.
AUTO TRIP, FISHING, BATHING
AND BASEBALL MAKE
HOURS FLY.
Nearly thirty of New Ulm's builders
and lumber dealers enjoyed a two days'
outing at Lake Jefferson during the past
week. There all business was put aside
and the men enjoyed themselves fishing
and bathing and everyone of them
decleared the outing a success and an
nounced that they had no objections to
making another trip under the same
conditions,
The party set out from this city on
Saturday morning when the hands of the
clock pointed to the hour of nine. From
here the line consisting of eight cars
wended its Way thru Courtland to
Nicollet where they stopped for several
minutes to talk with Nicollet friends.
From there the party went to St. Peter,
arriving there at 10:45. Here another
stop was made and over an hour had
passed before the men again resumed
their journey. After riding o'er hill and
plain for nearly two hours the party
arrived at the lake and immediately took
possession of the hotel at that place where
a hearty meal was served them.
Fishing and bathing took up the after
noon hours and late in the afternoon the
party divided itself into two sides and a
game of indoor baseball was arranged,
men of the light brigade being on one
side and the heavy weights on the other.
The game was very interesting as neither
side had at any time any great lead and
at the end of the fifth inning, with the
score a tie 5-5, the stomachs of the men
began to kick and feel empty and the
two teams wended their way to the
supper table.
In the evening the "McCormacks"
and the "Carusos" got together and 'ere
long the sweet melodies of up-to-date
songs floated o'er the lake. Late in the
evening the men wended their way to
beds and slept until late the next morning.
Fishing and bathing was enjoyed by
most of the men during the forenoon and
early part of the afternoon and some of
the "horseshoe sharks" played several
quoits. Late in the afternoon
started out on its return trip,
is returning by the route by
hey went and others taking
'.rails.
g&m*-"
the
sor
whic
differen
Those who enjoyed the outing were:
Alf. Vogel, J. H. Schmidt, F. R. Emmings,
C. O. Weilandt, A. Everting, Henry
Halverson, Henry Ahrens, A. Haag,
Otto Huhn, Wm. Wielandt, Peter Her
rian, Wenzel Rothmeyer, Alfred Guse,
Herman Aufderheide, Walter Muesi-^,
Fritz Haager, Herman Koop, Jr., Jotta
Koop, Henry Koop, Robert Ubl, Alf.
Borchert, Fred Krieger, Ed. Cordes, Alf.
Wielandt, John Gronau, Sr., Alfred
Gronau and Geo. Puchner.
FAIR ASSOCIATION
READY FOR CROWD
HAVE SECURED SEVERAL FINE
ATTRACTIONS TO AMUSE
VISITORS.
CHANGES MADE IN PREMIUMS
OFFERED FOR HORSES
AND CATTLE.
The stage is set and the actors ready
for the big annual event at the Brown
County Agricultural Association grounds.
In other words, the program has been
arranged for the fair and the premium
lists will be issued this week to all the
farmers tributary to New Ulm and in
other parts of the county. The lists
are being printed at the New Ulm
Review office and in another column of
the paper appears a list of the premiums
to be offered this year. A number of
changes have been made in the list,
particularly with regard to the prizes
offered for horses which have been in
creased this year to include grade horses
as well as thoroughbreds.- Heretofore no
prizes have been provided for grade
animals and this has been changed since
there are a number of farmers who own
particularly good animals of the grade
class and who have not heretofore had
any opportunity to compete for prizes,
which was hardly right considering that
grade animals perform a large share of
the work of the farms in Brown County.
Secretary Engelbert has also provided
for the other attractions of the Fair by
closing contracts with several companies
for the free exhibitions always provided
at the afternoon performances and in
addition a big five-act tented attraction
has been secured. The Fair Association
has put up several hundred dollars to
secure the various attractions and at the
prices to be paid, the acts should sur
pass anything heretofore offered.
The tent attraction consists of vaude
ville in five acts. There is a singing and
dancing sister team, a comedy and
musical act, blackface act a four-klo^
act in which a number of Pomeranians
will appear, and a novelty dancing act.
The company are on a circuit of their
own and will come here from the Brook
ings, S. D. fair.
The free acts which cost so much
money this year consist of a team of
casters, 4 men who perform incredible
feats in trapeze work. They claim to
have stunts pf twisting double somer
saults, looping the loop and other sen
sational juggling of the human body
which no other troupe has on its bill.
The other artists will be "Violet and
Charles", with two aerial acts intro
ducing comedy acrobatics, balancing,
contortion and tumbling.
Four races have been arranged as
usual consisting of a 2:15 pace and a 2:40
trot and a 2:35 pace and 2:23 trot. A
purse of $300.00 has been hung up for
each race and the money will be divided
50, 25, 15 and 10 per cent. The entries
for the races will close August 21st at
11 o'clock P. M. according to the speed
programs which have just been circulated.
The growing season has forced along
many of the crops in this vicinity and it
is expected that some unusual specimens
of vegetables and fruits will be shown.
The fair comes again the last days of the
week instead of the first as was the case
last year and the dates are Thursday,
Friday and Saturday, August 31st,
September 1st and 2nd.
Lamberton's Garden Club is planning
to give demonstrations of canning and
preserving work for the benefit of in
experienced housewives who may wish
to learn. The work will be done at the
school house.
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, AUG. 9, 1916.
STREET CONCERT SATURDAY
Frequent applause evidences the appreciation of the crowds that attend the
band concerts and encourages the Band Boys who are doing their best to supply
New Ulm with music that will please and satisfy. The threatened storm Sunday
evening kept a good many away from the park but those who were there were
in a humor to spend and the receipts from the sale were very satisfactory so that
the boys felt paid for their efforts. There will be a street concert Saturday even
ing on Minnesota Street and the public is urged to get out in the evening and
enjoy the music while they do their shopping.
PROGRAM.
GASOLINE GETS IN
ITS DEADLY WORK
NUMEROUS CASES OF WOMEN
BADLY BURNED WHILE
USING IT.
FORMER NEW ULM RESIDENT
DIES AS A RESULT OF
INJURIES.
Papers of the past week are full of
instances of housewives being burned in
their homes, the worst case recorded
being that of Mrs. Martin Lohrenz of
Redwood Falls who died as a result of
her injuries the morning after she was
burned. Mrs. Lohrenz attempted to
smother the flames which originated
from a small kerosene stove in her
kitchen.
The stove was placed on top of the
kitchen table and some towels **ere
hanging on a line above it. They caught
fire and Mrs. Lorenz seized them in her
hands and attempted to smother them
against her dress. She ran out of the
house with them but her own clothing
became ignited and the unfortunate
woman was terribly burned about the
face and arms and her clothing was
practically burned off her body before
help came. Her daughter who was in
the house with her rushed to her mother's
aid but could not save her and was dread
fully burned herself.
Mrs. Lohrenz was at one time a resi
dent of New Ulm, having married Martin
Lohrenz here shortly after coming to
America. Her maiden name was Fran
ziska Fogelmann and her birthplace was
Neumark, Austria. She was fifty-three
years of age.
The funeral was held Thursday morn
ing and those in attendance from New
Ulm were Mrs. Jos. P. Vogel, Franz Brey,
Louis Brey, Wolfgang Hacker, Ant.
Hacker and wife, Mrs. Alois Hacker, Mrs.
John Herlick and Mrs. Hofmeister.
Another case of a woman being burned
in a similar manner occurred at St.
James Friday evening. Mrs. Hugo
Stumm saved her own life by rushing
from the house when her clothing caught
fire and rolling in the grass. Mrs.
Stumm had been trying to light a gaso
line stove with wood alcohol and there
was an explosion. She was burned about
the hips and knees but her injuries are
not serious.
A gasoline explosion was also the cause
of a bad fire at St. James last week Thurs
day. J, P. Krone, proprietor of a
restaurant in that city lighted a match
to start his gasoline stove and the next
moment the room was in flames. Ap
parently there had been a leak at work
during the night. Prompt work of the
fire department saved the block but Mr.
Krone is a heavy loser. He was badly
burned altho his life was not forfeit to the
gasoline fiend.
Wood alcohol caused the death of a
woman living near the Iowa line Monday
when she threw the alcohol on some old
coals in a stove in trying to revive a
dying fire. She too was terribly burned
and died a dreadful death.
Fires were reported from numerous
other places, caused in a variety of ways,
but the explosions seem to lead the list
and once more call attention to the fact
that gasoline is a wickedly unsafe agent.
ARLINGTON MAN KILLS WIFE.
1. March "Chief Of Staff" Geo. Rosenkrans
2. Waltz "Laughing Beauties" H. Prendiville
3. March "The Ensign" Geo. Rosenkrans
4. Overture "Extempore" Al. Hayes
5. March "Show Boy" Will Huff
6. March "Chief Of The Nation" .. R. J. Herndon
INTERMISSION.
7. March "California Limited" S. C. Fenton
8. Waltz "Mocking Bird" J» R. Feagans
9. Polka "Gaietty" (Cornet Solo by John FriUche) .. H. Hartley
10. Overture "My Cella" Geo. Rosenkranz
11. Tango Two Step "Tree Moutarde" (Too Much Mustard) Cecil Macklin
12. March "Westmount Cadets" C. A. Wood
Martin Wiemann of Arlington is a
prisoner at the Brown County jail a
waiting the action of the grand jury in
December. He is charged with having
killed his wife, shooting her with a re
volver which he had purchased recently.
He also tried'to end his own life by taking
a mixture of gasoline and other stuff but
failed.
It seems that the family life had not
been happy and it was'supposed that
the husband's mind was affected.
Whether he went suddendly insane or
whether a quarrel incited the deed is not
known as the murder was not discovered
for some time and the wife was dead
when found. The husband is only
about 28 years of age and his wife was
also young. There are two 1 tt'e children,
boys, 3 and 5 years old.
BAD PLACES ON THE & Y.
Editor Erickson of Springfield and his
family had a narrow escape from serious
injury about four- miles west of New
Ulm on the Black and Yellow Trail when
they were on their way home from their
summer vacation trip. The heavy rain
of July 14th washed away the
bridge at the Arbes farm. This could
not be seen by the party in the auto
until they came coasting down the hill
and noticed a pile of sand in the roadway.
About to turn out for the obstruction
they discovered the missing bridge and
had barely time to turn back and run
the car into the sand pile. This slacked
the speed of the car and prevented it
from going into the washout altho it
was a narrow squeak as the nose of the
car rubbed against the wing wall of the
bridge and pushed it over an inch or
more. The water at the place was 12
feet deep.
EUROPEAN VISITOR
GLAD TO GETBACK
A. W. BERGSTROM OF LAFAYETTE
FINDS WAR'S HORRORS TOO
DREADFUL.
RECEIVED NO WORD FROM HIS
HOME DURING THREE
MONTHS STAY.
A. W. Bergstrom of Lafayette returned
Monday from a trip he made to Scan
dinavia and found himself very happy
to be back safe and sound. Mr. Berg
strom says that if he had known what
the European war meant he doubts very
much whether he would have found the
courage to undertake the trip. It was
the first time in 44 years that he had been
back to his native land and he felt that
he must go last April. He took passage
on the Scandinavian-American liner,
"Frederick VIII", sailing under the
Danish flag. The trip was full of ex
citement. Repeatedly the ship was
stopped and forced to show its right to
proceed. A shot was fired across the
bow a one time as a signal to halt one
night when the passengers were just
preparing for their night's rest. They
were examined by British searchers and
several parties were taken from the ship
at Kirkwall, England and detained there.
Two of them were women who were
accused of being spies. The Frederick
VIII was obliged to stay in the Kirkwall
harbor for two days before they were
allowed to proceed. In all the going
voyage took twelve days.
The real horrors of war became ap
parent when the ship reached the North
Sea. There the water was full of floating
mines and the dead bodies of victims are
so numerous that the mackerel trade of
Scandinavian has been ruined, people re
fusing to use the fish which are frequently
brought up by the fishermen with dead
bodies of human beings in the nets. One
could almost smell the powder, Mr.
Bergstrom said, so near did the conflict
seem in Scandinavia as compared with
what we America know of it.
He visited Christiania, Norway and
also in parts of Sweden. He found many
of his old time friends gone, of course,
but those he met compensated him for
the perilous voyage that he took to see
them. He says that everything in the
old home has much improved since he
left there nearly half a century ago.
In all the three months he was away,
not one letter did Mr. Bergstrom receive
from home. All the mail was then being
seized by England and he told of seeing
great quantities of packages taken from
the ships for examination in English
harbors. He did not know until bis re
turn of the little baby which had come to
live at the home of his adopted daughter,
Mrs. Alton Quist of Brighton, and in
fact, knew absolutely nothing of what
his home people were about altho they
wrote him frequently.
Mrs. Bergstrom met her husband in
Chicago on his return and they were
happily on their way to their peaceful
home, far from the alarms of war that
had separated them so completely for
weeks.
NUMBER B2
SOLDIERS RESENT
J060F"GRUB6ING
WOULD RATHER BE FIGHTING
THAN DIGGING STUMPS AT
50c PER DAY.
REVIEW CORRESPONDENT KEEPS
CHEERFUL IN SPITE OF
CONDITIONS.
Llano Grande, Texas
Aug. 4th, 1916.
Special to the Review:
Things go on much as ever in the
military camp at Llano Grande. The
heavy army wagons, drawn by big:
Missouri mules plow thru the heavy
mud all day. The Mexicans on their
mules or in their rickety wagons, drawn
by little burros go along the public high
way, which runs thru camp, with the
same distrustful, shifty look in their dark
eyes as when the troops first came.
The Texas days are short. The surt
rises a little before six and sinks shortly
after seven. From about 10 A. M. to
3 P. M. the sun beats down and makes
things uncomfortably hot. Usually,
however, a passing shower cools the air
shortly after 3. Occasionally it rains
very hard and the boys have to stay
"at home."
During the last week a great deal of
"grubbing" has had to be done. Some
men have complained a great deal. They
say that they came south to fight and
not to grub stumps for fifty cents a day
The drills are not hard on the men as the
hours for drill do not come during the
hot part of the day.
The water problem has been solved^
Most companies have filters now, and
as long as the ice is regularly delivered
the boys have fairly good, cold water.
Food, however, is not supplied as it
should be. Potatoes are scarce and the
bread supply is often short. Sometimes,
two meals a day consist only of bread,
bacon, syrup and coffee. The cooks,
however, do their best and when things,
can "be gotten at the commissary they
fix up good meals.
The Co. "A" boys have been short on?
rations some days as well as other com
panies, but they have also had meals
which could hardly be beaten in a first
class chop suey house.
Last Sunday Cook Ed. Junge, assisted'
by Wenzel Gulden and Harry Wehye
put up the following bill of fare: Beef
steak, smothered in onions, mashed
potatoes, bread, sweet corn, peach pie
and coffee. The peach pie had been
made Saturday by Corp. Herman
Schwerr and Cook Junge. Herman
showed that he had not forgotten all he
had learned at Wilhbald Eibner's Bakery
and so the pies turned out first rate.
Monday the cooks prepared some turtle
soup.
Altho nobody has actually suffered'
from the shortage of food, it makes the
men feel dissatisfied to think that they
should be fed on bread and bacon while
they are really doing hard work.
The number of men on the sick fist is
rapidly decreasing. It seems, or, it is
an actual fact, that everybody coming
from the north is sick for a few days,
or until the system has accustomed itself
to the water and the different climatic
conditions. People who formerly lived
in some of the northern states but now
live in Mercedes, state that they went
thru the same experience. Once ac
customed to the change they say that a
person "will feel better than ever.
Herman Goltz and Chas. La Duke were
at the hospital for a few days but thejr
are recovering from their illness.
Maj.« Pfaender has done a great deal
to add to the comfort of some of the sick
boys in Co. A. He has supplied some of
those more seriously affected with cold*
filtered water and with blankets. At
times he has even taken some to his tent.
An order was recently issued to the
effect that all 2nd Lieutenants under 27
years of age must go to the regular army
for four weeks. This makes it necessary
for 2nd Lieut. Alf. Puhlmann to leave
Co. A for a while. Just when he will
leave is not certain.
Thursday afternoon, the first battalion
under Major Pfaender, drilled for the
first time on the new battalion parade
ground.
The regimental and battalion parades
are getting better each day and if they
keep on improving long enough they can,
no doubt, be classed with the Kaiser's
forces.
On the whole camp life is not bad at
Llano Grande. It is only the uncertainty
that makes the men feel dissatisfied
at times. They do not know the reason
jfor which they are at Llano Grande. So
ar there have been no visible signs of
(Continued on Page 6.)
-i.^-?*,-'
I CI
—.
~m
