THE BARKE DAILY TIME
VOL XX NO. 124.
BAHHK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 9, 1910.
PRICE, OXE CEXT.
fi
w
ft
FRENCH SHELL
PERONNE CITY
Started Great Conflagration
Which Threatens to De
stroy the Flace
HOUSES REDUCED TO
HEAPS OF ASHES
Shells Have Been Falling on
the French City Since
Monday
German General Headquarters, Aug. 0
Since, Monday the famous old French
rity of Peronne lias been under French
artillery fire, resulting in a great eon
flagration which threatens to wipe it out,
Already a tine collection of paintings lias
been destroyed by shells which landed in
the eitv hall. The shells have destroyed
unrenlaeable collections of medieval Ger
manic silver. The houses in the Ftrcets
liuve been reduced to allies.
ay the fighting in the Gori.ia region
continue with intubated stubbornness
and that tins AuMriana have repulsed
several Italian attacks,
The surprising (success of the Italians,
who, in two days have captured 1,II00
prisoners, iiggests that. In addition to
transferring (icneral Koevcss, an able
Austrian uencral, from the. Trent ino
front to Oalicia, the Aimtrian also ven
tured to transfer troops front the Ison.o
to the Russian front, in an endeavor to
stein the Kussiiri advance.
TWO ACCEPT
MEXICO JOB
RUSSIANS TAKE TOWN
Have Occupied Tysmienitsa in Galicia,
Say Petrograd Report.
Petrograd. Ana. ft. The Russian have
occupied Tysmienitsa, in Galicia, the war
otlice announces.
BRITISH NEAR BAPAUME
British War Office Announce Advance
North of Pozieies.
London, Aug. 9. A further advance
bv the British on the Sotnme front north
of Pozieres has been announced by the
war ofiice.
Secretary Lane and Justice
Rrandeis Will Be the
Mediators
PROMINENT WATERBURY MAN.
THIRD MEMBER
NOT YET AGREED
GERMANS, ATTACKING
ON SOMME FRONT,
WERE REPULSED
But They Made Further Progress in
Thiaumont Work on Verdun Front,
Although French Are Holding
Outskirts Latter Gain
at Fleury.
Paris, Aug, 9. The Germans made
violent attacks last night on positions
taken by the Frencli north of ITom wood
on the Sonime front during the last two
days. The official statement says that
these attacks were frustrated.
The fiarhting continues on the Verdun
front. Heavy fighting continued during
the night for possession of Thiaumont
work. The Germans pained further foot
5ng but the French hold the outskirts of
the work. In Fleury the French made
tome progress.
GERMANY TO SEIZE
RED CROSS STUFF
Decides on Such Action, Ostensibly Ow
ing to British Treatment of Red
Cross Supplies.
Amsterdam, Aug. 9. The Xordeubsehe
Allgemeine Zcitung of Berlin publishes a
memorandum issued by the German gov
ernment which states that owing to the
British treatment, of the Red Cross sup
plies Germany will no longer allow free
passage for such supplies but will take
such (articles for her own use when they
come within her reach.
TURKS ARE WINNING
Have Captured Two Towns in Armenia
from Russians.
Constantinople, Aug. ft. Turkish
troops have captured I om the Russians
the Armenian towns of Bitlis and Mush,
the Turkish announcement states.
Will Undertake Settlement
of Mexican Border
Difficulties
WHEAT PRICES
SHOOT UPWARD
Sensational Fluctuation Marked Transac
tions on the Market in Chicago,
Prices Varying Three Cents
at Same Instant.
Chicago, Aug. 0. The wheat prices
shot upwards eight cents a bushel to-day
at the opening of the wheat market. The
sensational crop damage, confirmed by
the government report, was the cause of
the advance. So much excitement ruled
the pit that transactions inmany
cases were three cents apart. At the
same instant, December wheat varied
from $1.42 to $1.45.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 0. Secretary
Lane of the department of the interior
and Associate Justice Rrandeis of the
I'nited States supreme court have been
selected as two of the three American
members of the joint commission which
will undertake a settlement of the Mex
ican border difficulties. The name of the
third member will be made public later.
Announcement was made at the White
House this morning that the three mem
bers of the joint commission had leen
selected, President Wilson having asked
them to serve, urn I that the names would
be made public as soon as the replies
were received. The announcement of the
names of Lane and Brandei was soon
made.
ASSAILED ADMINISTRATION.
SEEK MISSING FARMHAND
23 PEOPLE DEAD
IN GREAT RAID
OVER ENGLAND
At Several Places Anti-Aircraft Guns
Were Effective in Driving off the
Zeppelins, Says the British
4 Official Statement.
London, Aug. 9. German airships have
raided the east coast of England and the
southeast coast of Scotland. According
to the first official statement, three wom
en and a child were killed and 14 were
injured. A several places the airships
were engaged by the anti-aircraft guns
nd driven off from their objectives.
A later statement says that 23 death
were caused by the raid.
AUSTRIANS QUIT
ON ISONZO FRONT
Pursued by Italian Cayalry, They Have
Abandoned All Principal Positions,
Says Paris Despatch.
London, Aug. 9. The Austrians, pur
sued by the Italian cavalry, have aban
doned all the principal positions on the
Isonzo-Carso front, says a Rome wireless
despatch.
AUSTRIA ON RETREAT
Has Fallen Back Before the Italians and
the Russians.
London, Aug. 9. The Russians are con
tinning to drive their wedge westward
into east Galicia in the region about
Stanislau. Here they have taken some
half dozen additional towns and villages
from the Auftro-Germans and, according
to Petrograd, are continuing to develop
their advantage. In all, says Petrograd
territory aggregating 61 Vi square miles
has been captured by the Russian, and
the pursuit of the Austro-Germans is
Hill going on.
Xizniow, about 15 miles northeast of
Stmislau; Tiumacz, IS miles to the east;
Ottynia. 15 miles southeast, and Xad
worna, 20 miles to the south,' are among
the latest town occupied by the Rus
sians. Vienna admits that the Austrian!
have withdrawn to the region west of
Tiumaca in the face of superior forces.
The tiorizia bridgehead, the key to an
advance to Trieste and over whih the
Austrians and Italians have fought many
notable battles, has at et fallen into
the hands of the Italians, and the city of
Grfrizia is being shelled by them in an en
deavor to drive out its defenders. Th
taking of the bridgeheud came with the
capture of Monte Sabotino and Monte
San Michel. In the fighting the Italians
took more than 2,OnO prisoner and
Urge numfter of guns, machine guns and
a quantity of war materiaL
Vienna admits th t the Austrian
troops oVfrniirg the bridgehead were
withdrawn to the eastern Isonro in or
To Determine If He Knows of Miss Pack
ard's Death.
Brockton, Mass., Aug. 9. Mr. and Mrs:
John D. Packard of 142 Belmont street,
parents of Miss Evelyn E. Packard, the
young woman whose body was found
Saturday morning in Town river, West
Bridgewater, are not satisfied with the
theorv that their daughter was acciden
tally drowned. Constable Henry O, Dav
enport of West Bridgewater is also skep-
ical regarding the manner in which the
girl met her death, and has started an
investigation of his own.
lie states that he is particularly anx-
ous to learn the whereabouts of a West i
Bridgewater farmhand who has been
missing since Wednesday of last week,
the day on which Miss Packard hired the
canoe "and started down the river. In
formation has come to Constable Daven
port that this farmhand was in the vi
cinity of "The Camps," where Miss Pack
ard was last seen, on the day in question.
He was employed near the place where
the body of Miss Packard waa found.
"When I saw that both of the. girl's
eyes were black," said Constable Daven
port, "I immediately suspected foul play.
I helped pull the body from the water.
I would have started a search for the
missing farmhand then but for the medi
cal examiner's report, which was 'acciden
tal drowning. I had been a little ner
vous about this farmhand before the
body was found. I would like to know
where he is now. He hasn't shown upj
since Wednesday,
Miss Packard was an expert swimmer.
and her friends are not inclined to think
even though she might have fallen into
the river, th'at she would be unable to
help herself out. She was strong and
athletic. The spot where she is thought
to have been drowned is lonely and deso
late.
WAS CHAINED IN CELLAR
Story Told by Youth in Court at Brock
ton, Mass.
Brockton, Mass., Aug. 9. How he used
to be chained in the cellar of his home
at 56 Perkins street by his father was
told in the juvenile court yesterday by
nine-year-old James Pcriso.
He said that his father used to chain
him there in order to punish him for
different offenses. The rats frightened
him and on Saturday he broke his bonds
and escaped. He slept in Salisbury park
under benches Saturday and Sunday
nights and on Monday night he climbed
into the storehouse of ex-Representative
Orvis F. Kinney, wholesale produce deal
er, and tried to sleep in some burlap,
when the officers found him.
Judge King admonished the father to
adopt a more humane method of punish
ment in the future, and then placed the
boy on probation for two months.
EXPECT THE BREMEN
New London People Interested Because
Storage Shed Is Being Built.
Xew London. Aug. 9. Interest excited
by the reports that the Bremen was to
put in here were intensified to-day when
it was learned that a storage shed is to
be erected on the pier.
RAILROAD FOUNDER DEAD
, A. Stickney Founded Chicago and
Great Western.
St. Paul, Aug. 9 A. B
founder of the t hicsgo Great Western
railroad, is dead after a four weeks' ill
ness.
Charles E. Hughes' Speech in Chicago
Bristled .with Epigrams.
Chicago, Aug. 9. Charles E. Hughes
last night, told an audience that crowded
Chicago's great Coliseum the hall where
he was nominated for the presidency
what, he would do if elected president of
the I'm ted States. Mr. Hughes charged
the present administration with waste,
extravagance and vacillation. He declared
that it had not kept the country out of
war, but. that it had fought an ignomini
ous war in Mexico and had withdrawn
from that war ignominiou-ly. He charged
the administration with having brought
the country much nearer to participation
in the "European war than the country
would have leen had the administration
stood for American rights.
He declared that it was no more pos
sible to expect tariff protection to Amer
ican Industrie from a Democratic Con
gress than it would lie to get "a revival
sermon out of a disorderly house."
The nominee assailed the administra
tion for its appointments to ofiice and
declared that if elected, he would ap
point to office only men well qualified.
Democratic expenditures for rivers and
harbors were attucked by the nominee.
"I propose that we shall stop this pork
business," he said, "I propose that we
shall have government, in a businesslike
way. We won't have any more, if I can
stop it, of these 'Kiss me and I'll kiss
you' appropriations in Congress."
The nominee said he stood for a "bus
inesslike responsible budget." "I do not
want any hot air in mine," he added.
The Democratic party, Mr. Hughes
said, was approaching the idea of a tar
iff like a skittish horse to a brass band.
In 1912, he added, the Democratic plat
form had said in effect tht a protective
tariff was unconstitutional.
"They say in effect now that the Eu
ropean war changed the constitution of
the I'nited States," he continued. "But
do you think they are converted! Don't
trust them a little minute with protect
ing American industry. They haven't got
it in their bones."
Mr. Hughes reiterated much of his De
troit speech regarding the administra
tion's Mexican policv.
"It had no right," he said, "to commit
this country to a course of conduct which
landed Mexico in anarchv, left our citi
zens a prey to the -ravages of bandits
and made our. name a word of contempt
in a sister republic.
"We have gone forward," the nominee
said in speaking of the administration's
.Mexican policy, "with (a determination
to be destructive, not constructive, to de
stroy all they had."
As to the administration's foreign pol
icy, Mr. Hughes said:
"We have allowed our words to be
eaten up by hesitation, by delay. We
have somehow or other convinced the
world that our talk is cheap."
I propose that we have a new birth
of American purpose and courige. We
mve no occasion to fear war in the at
taining of those rights, which all recog
nize ami respect us for maintaining. If
we are glib in speech, if we indicate that
we are not ready to meet our word am
ply, we are pushed a little further and
little further, until some fine day
events occur which cause an implacable
resentment from one end of the country
to the other.
This administration has come nearer
to landing lis in war by its weakness
than it would ever have come had it
stood faithfully for American rights, and
had let it be known that they would be
defended."
Richard N. Demeritt Was President of
Big Packing Co.
Westbury, Aug. 9.-Ricahrd X. De
meritt, one of Waterbury' best known
citizens and business men, being prest
dent of the De'remitt Packing Co., died
last night at the Hge of f.5 years. The
funeral will be hi Id t 'jin hi late homo
Friday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Richard Xewcll Demeritt wa born in
Waterbury Center Dec. 6, 1850, the Hon
of Albert and Laura (Smith) Demeritt.
He spent his early life on the farm and
wa educated in the common school and
Inter at Green Mountain seminary at
the Center. When a young man ho went
to Rutland and wa employed as a trav
eling salesman by his uncle, Henry Howe,
for some time. Later he went to Piatt
burg, S. Y., and entered business for
himself, although being cn the road most
of the time. That business was thn
baker's and confectioner'. Ten years
ago lie sold out lus business in Piatt
burg and returned to his native town
when he bought an interest in the Dc-
emeritt & Palmer Tacking Co., which
later was made into a stock company,
of which Mr. Demeritt became president.
That busine-s ha been greatly enlarged
in recent years, having bought the Hunt
ley lumber mills and having built a can
ning factory at Randolph, beside branch
ing out in tanwood novelties.
Mr. Demeritt represented Waterbury
in the legislature in 1912, being a mem
ber of the committees on railroads and
thn insane. He waa a Mason, being a
memW of Winooskj lodge of this place,
of the Chapter, of the Knights Tem
plar and of Oriental temple of the Shrine
at Troy, X. Y. He also belonged to the
I'nited Commercial Travelers' associa
tion. He was prominent in the Method
ist church, of which denomination he
was a member.
Mr. Demeritt was, twice married. His
first w ife wa Lizzie D. Stearns of Wat-1
erbury. They were imarried in 1S75 and
she died in 1!M. Three of their four chil
dren are still living, they leing Homer of
Kutland. Henry and Roy Stearns Demer
itt of Waterbury. In 181)6 he married
Jessie D. Law of Canada, and she sur
vives him, together with one of their two
children, Laura, who resides at home. He
also leaves his step-mother, Mrs. Fidelia
Demeritt, who lives with his half-sister,
Mrs. Alice Rogers, at Hanover, X. H.;
one own brother, Alvin Demeritt of John
son; and two half-brothers, Charles De
meritt of Burlington, and William De
meritt, who resides in Kansas.
WILL APPEAL
TO U.S. BOARD
Railroad Managers' Confer
ence Decides on That
Plan
AFTER REJECTING
MEN'S DEMANDS
Employes Claim They Had
Not Previously Got Sat
isfactory Awards
CO. H ROSTER
GIRL MAY LOSE EYE.
Complete List with Home Residences of
Those at Eagle Pass.
The complete roster of Co. H, first
Vermont infantry, now at Eagle Pas,
Tex., has been furnished The Times by
Captain C. X. Barber. The names of the
men and their homes are as follows: J.
Edward Coghlan, captain, Montpelier;
Raymond W. Paine, first lieutenant,
Montpelier; Clarence J. LePage, second
lieutenant, Barre; E. I). Willard, first
sergeant, Montpelier; Archie McDonald,
sergeant, Barre; William IL Canning,
sergeant, Montpelier " Edward F. Buley,
sergeant, Montpelier; Edward H. Duek
ett, sergeant, Montpelier; Leslie E.
Young, corporal, Barre; Perlcy G. Wells,
corporal (since sergeuut), 5lontpelitr;
Raymond L. Spooner, corporal, South
Barre.; Robert L. GlennieK corporal, Mont
pelier; William J. Gauld, corporal, Mont
pelier; Harold G. Barnes, corporal, Mont
pelier; John McDonald, corporal, Barfe;
John W. Johnson, art., Montpelier; James
S. Wood, cook, Montpelier; Olen E. Rus
sell, mus., Montpelier; Frank J. Simon,
mus., Quincy, Mass.
Privates: Arthur G. Adams, Montpe
lier; Kuel H. Baldwin, Montpelier; Henry
J. Badger, Barre; William H. lien way,
Montpelier; Edward J. Benway, Montpe
lier; Horace W. lilay, Montpelier: Wil
liam C. Klanchard, Montpelier; John J.
Blight, Barre; Raleigh H. Bolio, Mont
pelier; Charles J. Ca.de tt, Montpelier;
Reigh W. Carpenter, Canaan, X. H.; Wil
liam A. Carroll, Barre; Ino C. Daniels,
Montpelier; Marshall G. Dennis, Montpe
lier; Myron E. Davison, Burre; Merl, F.
Densmore, Montpelier; Alfred G, Ed
wards (since corporal), Barre; Orville A.
Fordham, Montpelier; Samuel V. Francis,
Middlesex; Henry O. Galaise. Montpelier;
Harold B. Griffith, Williamstown; Wil
liam R. Greenleaf, South Barre; James
A. Glrnnie, Montpelier; Harry E. Hath
away, Montpelier; Raymond Hathaway,
Montpelier; L. E. Hoffman, South Barre;
Charles E. Hurdle, Montpelier; Andrew
V. Jackson. Montelier: Joseph P. Jan
graw, Montpelier; Walter G. Knutson,
Barre; Ralph A. f.awliss, Barre; Abner
O. Lord. West Berlin: Charles 1". Lovelv.
Montpelier; Arthur F. lxmib.ird, Mont
pelier; John M. Lucia, Barre; Edward
M. Lynch, Montpelier; Merton M. Mar
tin, Montpelier; Harrison B. Martin,
Barre; Henry W. Parker, Montpelier;
Kenneth W. Pierce, Montpelier; Philip
D. Purizo, Montpelier; Lucius J. Proven
che, Barre; Armand Pinard, Montpelier;
Thomas B. Sibley, Barre; George Stone,
Barre; Wilfred E. Theriault, Barre;
Frank Tomassi. Montpelier; Joseph G.
Vega. Berlin; Clyde. W. Vincent, Mont
pelier; Walden H. Wright, Burlington.
Xew York, Aug. 9. The national con
ference of railroad managers again re
jected the demands of the four railroad
biotherhoods for an eight-hour day, time
and a half for overtime, and the proocd
submission of their differences with the
men to the L'nited States board of medi
ation and conciliation. This proposal
A. B. Garretson, in behalf of the brother
hoods, rejected.
Elisha Lee, chairman of the railroa
conference, in proposing that the differ
ences be mediated bv the federal board
called attention to the fact that th
brotherhood had previously declined arbi
tration under the Xewland act, but that
the roads saw no other wav out.
Mr. Garret nnn, reiterating the conten
tion of the brotherhoods that in previous
attempts to settle differences with the
railroads through the federal boards, the
brotherhood had failed to obtain satis
faitorv awards, said that the unions be
lieved they could reach a settlement by
dialing directly with the roads.' Je said
nevertheless, he would appeal to the fed
eral board.
Garretson expressed a willingness to
have the roads make an appeal, so the
unions could make a reply as to their
attitude, this reply, Garretson indicat
id, would be favorable. Judge Chambers
of the federal board heard the roads' ap
ptal and immediately offered its services
to the brotherhoods.
WILSON FEARS STRIKE.
Sends Federal Mediation Board to New
York to Be Ready.
Washington. D. C, Aug. 9. At the
suggestion of President Wilson. Judge W.
L, Chambers and G. W. W. Hanger of
the I'nited States mediation board left
Washington last night for Xew York to
be on the ground when the representa
tives of the 400,000 railway men threat
ening a strike confer with the represen
tatives of the carriers.
Under the law the board is not author
ized to offer its services until asked to
intervene by interested parties, or until
a tie up is imminent, but in view of the
magnitude of the threatening trouble it
was said that an offer to mediate might
be made should the employers and the
men fail to get together to-day. Presi
dent Wilson, it was said, was anxious
to have the board on the ground, already
to do everything possible.
That the American Federation of La
bor stands squarely behnid the men in
their demands for an eight-hour day, was
made plain in a letter addressed to offi
cials of the unions involved by President
Gompers, sent on behalf of the execu
tive council to the secretary of the or
der of railway conductors And the broth
erhoods of railway trainmen and locomo
tive firemen and engineers.
TWO VICTIMS BURIED
ARRANGING TO CARE
FOR DEPENDENTS
OF SOLDIERS
Gov. Charles W. Gates Named as Chair
man and Prof. M. R. Robert of
Northficld as Secretary of
Executive Committee.
Representative of the town and cities
in the state which have sent out militia
eompanie for service in Texas met yet
terday afternoon at the State House and
organised by selecting Gov. C. W. Gate
a chairman and Prof. M. R. Robert of
Norwich university secretary of an exec
utive committee. The other member of
the committee, which will have charge
of caring for the dependent of the sol
diers now in government service, are
Edward Deschicne of St. Albans, Sena
tor H. C. Cadv of Northfield, and Col
lohn Piddoi k of Bellow Fall.
The committee named bv the governor
ia been assigned to investigate cases in
the tow ns w hich thev represent, as indi
viiluals, and report back the needs to th
executive committee at a meeting to be
held in tli in city some timo next week
Bv this method it will be possible to es
timate the amount of money needed to
carry on the relief work until the guards
men return to Vermont. The next leg
islature will no doubt appropriate a sum
sufficient to reimburse whoever furnishen
the funds needed at the present time.
Those present yesterday were a fol
low: A. G. Eaton of Montpelier, Frank
Wilson of Rutland, Guy P. Benton, pres
ident of the University of VCermont;
C. L. Smith of Burlington, M. D. Walker
of Brattleboro, George Leland of Spring
field, Frank Brooks of St. Johnsbury,
Edward Deschienes of St. Albana, Col.
John F. Piddock of Bellows Falls, H. C.
Cady of Xorthfield and Judge Henry Con
lin of Winooski.
GOMPERS GETS
OVATION FROM
UNION MEN
President of American Fed
eration of Labor Ad
dressed Vermont State
Branch of the A. F. of L.
on the Second Day of the
15th Annual Convention
Being Held in Barre
APPEALS TO THE' OR
HIGH PATT TISM
V
Forenoon Ses .i To-day
Was Large' Jiven Up to
Addresses ""by Gompers,
Other Union Men, and by
ex-Gov. Fletcher A Mass
Meeting and Banquet Tonight
TO GIVE ROUSING SEND-OFF.
TRAIN HIT TWO MEN.
One Man Drowned and Other Killed Be
neath Auto.
St, Johnsbury, Aug. 9. The funeral of
Gerald Dunn, drowned at Joe's pond Sat
urday and Road Commissioner A. L.
Douglass, the victim of Sunday night's
automobile accident, were held yesterday.
Dunn' was held at 9 in the morning
from Xotre Dame church, Rev. John W.
Dwycr officiating. Burial was in Mount
Calvary cemetery.
Mr. Douglass was buried yesterday
afternoon in Grove cemetery, East St.
Johnsbury, a short distance from the
scene, of the accident. The funeral serv
ice was held at 2 o'chx'k at Grace Meth
odist church. The presiding elder of the
'St. Johnsbury district, Rev. R. F. Lowe,
was in charge.
Barre Board of Trade to Escort Granite
Men to Train Saturday.
The directors of the Barre Board of
Trade realize that a large amount of en
ergy and push, together with systematic
advertising, is annually contributed to
the granite industry ot tiarre, through
the efforts and accomplishments of th
Barre granite manufacturers and quarry
owners in their endeavors to make and
keep Barre granite the first and leading
commodity used in artistic cemetery mo
morials.
A group of these Barre people are to
eave on Saturday of this week for
Cleveland, Ohio, to attend the nation
retail monument dealers' annual conven
tion. It is the intention and purpose
of these Barre people to make the Cleve-
and convention not only a source of per
sonal pleasure, but an advertisement and
business boost for Barre granite. To
this end, they have made extensive and
laborate preparations, and all Barre
wishes them success.
As a courtesy and partial recognition
of these continued efforts, the director
f the Board of Trade voted to request
every memler of their organization to
meet in front of Reynolds & Son's store
Seturdav, Aug. 12, at 5:25 o'clock in the
afternoon, for the purpose of escorting
the eonvcntionists to the railroad sta
le n. A short talk will be given at the
station prior to their departure. 1
Please be on hand promptly at 5:25
and loan your assistance to the Barre
contingent on the hrst lap of their jour
ney. it is a simple courtesy on your part
nd will carry with it the significance
hat, the good wishes of Barre' citizens
accompany them, and better still it
hows thev are accompanied with the
cnfidence and support ot the community
which they represent.
Please consider this a personal mvita-
ion and notice thRt yon are expected to
e on hand promptly at 5:25 o'clock Sat
urday afternoon; it will take only a few
minutes of your time. Per order of the
directors.
Barre Board of Trade, H. A. Phelps,
secretan'.
INJURED ABOUT SHOULDER.
WAS FOUND DEAD.
John Allen of Westford Died of Heart
Trouble.
Was Struck By Piece of Saw Blade at
Stowe.
Stowe, Aug. 9. Lena Lander, the nine-year-old
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Fred
Raymond, wa hit in the eye yesterday
bv a piece of saw-blade thrown by a
child with whom she was playing. She
ws taken to the Mary Fletcher hspi-
Stii knev tl by Dr. H. . Barrow. It u feared
that she will loe the sight of the eye
and possibly the eye itself.
On what will be known as California
it, early this month, that state will
undertake to supply sufficient fexvi for
feeding the entire population of Belgium
and northern France for one d.iv. To
carry out the iJea it will be neceiry to
raise ?T0,0"V, with which to rurchae the
oer ia a von Mvere joese t tiem, but ueceewrj foodstuzs.
One Thought to Have Sustained Internal
Injuries.
Rutland. August 9. Richard Llovd
Fvans and Richard Pritchard. botU of
Poultney, whose ages range from ,10 to
55 years, were struck yesterdc.y after
noon by a freight train on the D. and H.
tracks, when they were returning from
work at the Kvergreen slate quarry.
The men were thrown for some distance
and Evans received serious internal in-
june. His friend suilered bruises but
was able to walk home.
Making their way home along the rail
road tracks. Evans and Pritchard were
caught in the heavy thunder and light
ning shower late in the afternoon, and
sought refuge in one of the sluiceways.
When the shower ws nearly over they
started for the trucks aaain. and. fail
Westford. Aug. 9. John Allen, who
represented Westford in the legislature
and held many town offices, died sudden
ly yesterday of heart failure. He was
75 years of age.
Mr. Allen arose as usual and assisted
with the early morning work about the
-1.. 11. j: i i ai.
p.my. uereu oeaa in ti.eas uncommonly fortunate.
jara. nis enure lire was spent ill is ,hp ron ,U(re tol)?h enollfjh to rc.
place. He was a brother of the late He-I t f, strain .... hv tho rani(1 Tfv.
l 4ll.. e -D...1: i i.' . 1
olution of the shafting, the polisher un
George H. Feaser Had Narrow Escape
When Caught in Lathe.
George II. Fraser of Brook street, well
known in amateur golf circles, figured
in an accident at the plant of the Dew
ey Column fc Cutting Co., on Willcy
street, near noon to-day that resulted
in the disjointing of his left shoulder
and will confine him to the house for
several days. The young man is em
ployed as a polisher and it was while he
was working in the lathe room that his
apron became caught in the lathe shaft
ing. The mishap brought the polisher
rudely against the framework of the
lathe, but before he could be drawn
around the shafting, the motion of the
machine tore the apron apart and lit
was released. Other workmen made
haste to "stop the machine and Fraser
was assisted into the office, where Dr.
J. A. Wark was called. Later the young
man was removed to his home. He sus
tained no injuries other than the dis
jointing of the shoulder.
Shopmates were inclined to regard J-ra-
ser escape troni more serious injury
Had
On the second day of the 15th annual
convention of the Vermont State Federa
tion of Labor in Barre the forenoon ses
sion was given over largely to speech
making with President Samuel Gompers ,
of the American Federation of Labor di
viding interest wih Colli J. Lovely of
St. Louis, Mo., vice-president of the boot
and shoe workers' union and ex -Governor
Allen M. Fletcher of Cavendish. Presi
dent Gompers, as the central figure in
this year's gathering of organized labor
in Vermont, preached group and national
patriotism this morning and promised his
hearers that he would amplify his re
marks at the mass meeting in the opera
house this evening at 7:30 o'clock. The
boot and shoe workers' representative
assailed convict labor and ex-Governor
Fletcher scored a judicial system that
prolongs litigition, denies the right of
appeal, because of expensive procedure.
to the man of moderate means, and cited
appeals on the telephone investigation of
1914 as an instance of judicial dehiys.
All three speakers were warmly received,
but the mot enthusiastic ovation, aa wj
to be expected, was reserved for Presi
dent Gompers.
Owing to the rain, the automobile trio
planned to Williamstown gulf had to be
given up, and also the parade, which wns
to have preceded the mass meeting at the
opera house. That meeting and the ban
quet which follows at Clan Gordon hall
will be neld as planned. The convention
will adjourn to-morrow forenoon.
Something of the camaraderie that
exists between the worthy president of
the A. F. of L. and the men in the ranks
may be sensed in watching the proceed
ings at the convention with Mr. Gompers
holding the center of the stage. His
presence has injected a personality into
the convention procedure the like of
which has not been seen in many annual
conventions. Hundreds of labor men
foregathered in Depot square last even
ing to greet the president and though
the, train was an hour overdue many re
mained to glimpse the distinguished
guest of Vermont labor. President Gom
pers is making his headquarters 'at Hotel
Barre during his stay in Barre.
Mr. Lovely of the boot and shoe work
ers was concluding his speech when a,
committee consisting of W. H. Eager and
Harry Dale ushered Mr. Gompers into the
man W. Allen of Burlington and an nneli)
of Edward L. Allen and Sheriff J. H.
Allen of Burlington. He leaves two
daughters, Grace and Elizabeth, a daughter-in-law,
and two grandohildren.
BARN CAUGHT IN FIVE PLACES
During Electrical Storm Which Struck
Saxtons River.
Bellow Falls, Aug. 9. A cloudburst
and thunder shower was responsible for
much damage at noon yesterday. Elec
tric light service was interrupted and
doubtedlv would have been carried
around the lathe several times before
the power was shut off. Fraser is prom
inent in the Meadow Brook Golf rl.ib,
and only last week participated in the
state tournament at Rutland.
ON TO BERLIN!
SHIPPING BILL DISCUSSED
Passage of Administration Measure by
Senate Assured.
Wahington, Aug. 9. The administra
tion shipping bill has !ren taken up for
general debate by the Senate. Its ulti
mate r ssb ?e is virtually assured, al-
lrg to hear th- approaching engine, w!MWil ,i,re tr' n village and on
:m v. r w -ng,ne "na ;.s,MRivPr;,;8i,tfi;i;fit;;u; !r't-p'''
Evn was fm.nd'in serious condition 1 wh"n the ''""trie wires were struck by
and was placed on the milk tnin and ' 1'gatmng. Crops were much damaged.
brought to the local hospital.
ROBERT GRAU DEAD
Was Well Known Figure in Dramatic j
Circles. j
Mount Vernon. Ana. 9. R ,brt .ran.f
formerly a theatrical 'Sifrn m.imer
and a known f'src in dramatic iir-
j 57 DEATHS IN 24 HOURS.
Greatest Record of Mortality Since the
Plague Started.
Barre Board of Trade to Conduct Thirf
Tour Friday Evennig.
A large number of members of th
Barre Board of Trde are expected ta
in
the third run of the better acquaintance
tour being eondueted this summer, the
objective point being Berlin, where the
jgmnge will serve a buffet lunch for -3
cents eacn person, .-ecure lUKfis row
of the committee. B. W. linker. G. R.
Varnim, E. C. Glysson and F. H. Rcrs,
or of the secretary, H. A. Phelps. Those jto the Matin of the court
convention hall this -forenoon at 10:15
o'clock. He was accompanied by William
Standcunibe of Boston, president of the
Xew England label conference and a
prominent member of the cigarmakers'
union. As the guest entered the hall, the
delegates arose with one accord ami
greeted the president vociferously. Thn
applause was uninterrupted for at least
three minutes and then the president;
was given an honorary place at the offi
cers' table. Ex-Governor Fletcher, who
entered a few moments earlier, was given
a hearty greeting and before President!
Gompers was introduced by the chair
man, F. W. Suitor, the former executive)
was aked for a speech.
In introducing the A. F. of L. president,
Chairman Suitor said that none of thoso
present needed to be informed of what
President Gompers had achieved or what
he is going to achieve. Taking a cu
from the introductory remarks of th
chairman. Mr. Gompers said, in part: '"If,
when I have shuffled off this mortal coil,
people shall say of me that I tried. I
shall feel amply compensated. I hold
that the iteht of gratitude which we ow
to hundred, aye thousands of men who
have lived and labored for the cause is.
based on the fact that they tried, honest
ly and seriously, and not by the measurn
of their mundane success. I appeil t
you to-day not only on the basis of
group patriotism, but on the ground that
we should hold high the patriotim of
American citizenship. With some of our
critics. I agree that we have not ttttaine 1
11 the ideals that we have hoped for.
and ret I am thoroughly convinced that
we are living in the grandest and most
glorious country on the face of the globe.
To the men of labor I k that the sumn
high ideals of our republic he ued t-
guide us in our everydny life.
Continuing a thought expressed a feir
moment before by Mr. Fletcher, th
speaker referred in no nmerta;n term
Incidentally,
Uitxh the Republicans are cjosed to it. ties, is dead.
Xew Vork. Aug. 9. The infant Je par-1 wishing automobile accommodation wille stated, be
h ms epidemic broke a!! previous r.--- ' be furnished transportation free on ap- vers. Hut only
day, when the plague killed C7, plication to the committee -r trie erc- I reason ti.at decisuns re appealed frt
during the past twenty-four !try. Auto mill ftsit from the cityf
lionl.auel oa cij'ith jae )
irds to
children
tv ft i.
bad een many able law.
a few p , vr.H ine. For tr
13
irk at 7 o'clock.
I
