VOLUME XXXII. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 9, 1916. NUMBER 3
COLITY CAIPAlGM[RS
SPOKE AT LANGSTON
Campaign Opened Monday
Morning There
ENTERTAINED BY
THE COMMUNITY
County Candidates Addressed Voters
at Langston Church and Received
Close Attention. 'Much Interest in
Senatorlal and Legislative taces.
The first meeting of the county can
paign party was hold at Langston
church Monday, the candidates being
the guests of the community at dinner.
The meeting was presided over by W.
F". Wright, who welcomed the cam
paigners.
Clerk of Court.
The candidates for Clerk of Court
spoke first. Mr. C. F. Brooks lead off,
promising a business alministration
and full performance of duty. C. A.
Power, the incumbent, asked for re
election upon his record, saying that
he had ;)rormeid iis duty as he saw
it. lie said all papers are recorded il
niedlately upon their receipt at his
oflice.
Sheriff.
The candidates for sheriff all spoke
along the satme line, promising faith
ful discharge of the duties of the of
lice. W. H1. Barksdale spoke first for
this oflice, saying that it was the first
tine he had offered himself for oilce
and promised faithful discharge of Its
duties.
Geo. C. Ilopkins offered a few pleas
antries at the expense of other candi
dates, adding that ho was for Wood
row Wilson for president, H. A. Coop
er for governor and Geo. C. Hopkins
for sheriff,
D. W. M. Mason recited his record
as a--peace officer, partieularly as ehief
of police of Clinton. He said lie felt
fully competent to fulfill the duties of
the office.
.1. T. Peden said that he had nar
rowly missed being elected sheriff at
a previous election when the flood de
prived hin of many votes, lie voiced
an ambition to be the sheriff of Lau
rens county.
S. C. Reid gave his record as a peace
officer, as constable to Magistrate
Cooper, Chief of Police of Clinton,
Deputy Sheriff, etc. Ilie claimled he was
efelient and comlpetent.
.John Kellett said there was only one
issue--litness to hold the oflice lie
said lie had been constable under I ley
ward, magistrate for a number of
years and rural policeman. As an in
dieation of how well he lperforied hiis
duty, he stated that his towigship suo
taned the rural police system in the
election by i larger majority than any
other township.
.1. 1). W. Watts said that he had been
appointed to fill out the unexpired
term of the late Sheriff Owings and
that lie had( perf!ormed lisa (duy3 to the
hest of lis ability. Ilie saidl that all ar
rests ate inadoe prompjtly and1( as soon1
as warrantsa arme tourned over to limi.
Addhison iR. So ull ian re(ouniiteod hiIs
record as eoiistable and rural polIce
man for iian years'fl~ and asked the
sup jport of thle votler's oni lis rec'oid as
a peace otlicer andl on thieir knowledge
of hiso ability.
Treasuirer.
It. Jud 14ingstonl sa1id that lie felt
comphetent to till the ofile of tr'easureir
and( asked for the votes of the assenm
bled voters. L~. F. McSwain promisled
to notify every taix-player of the amount
of his taxes and When they will be
due. Rosa D. Young, the incumlibent,
said that thtis would be impracticable
and would lead to endless confusion
and expense.
Auditor.
J. Waddy Trhomplson, uinopplosted for
Atudit'or, thlanked the voters for thoir
suppiort in plast elections and assured
them of lia desir'e to perform his duty
faithfully.
County Commaissloner.
Trho four candidates for' County Comn
missioner spoke along the same gen
eral lines, promising faithful perform
ance of the duties of the offee. J1. II.
Hitt and J. T. Todd asked for re-eec
lion on their record. W. B. Adair aind
Jno. A. Thomiason are the other can
didaten for those (tilies. -There are
tWO o'ofea toh 110 hil
Coroner.
'The carndttes toir C~oroner. F. 13.
Deland, R, J. F'ranks, J. P'. IEliedge, 74
R. Trayihtun anid. W. HI. Whitlock
J. WADEI ANDERISON'S HOME
CONSUMED BY FLAMES
One of the Oldest Dwellings on East
:Min Street and All the Furniture
Burned Last Wednesday Night.
Mr. J. Wade Anderson's home on
East Main street burned last Wednes
day night, shortly after one o'clock.
It is thought tl'at the fire was a result
of an exposed. electric wire, for the
blare was first discovered in the cell
ing of the second story.
Being awakened by the room filled
with :moke, Mrr. Anderson immediate
ly had Mr. Anderson to make an in
vestigation. As soon as Mr. Anderson
entered another room, he found the
flames to be blazing over him. It bei
ing linposisble for them to escape
through the front doors, both Mr. and
Mrs. Anderson made their way out of
the burning building through the win
dow. All that could be done to sup
press the llamues was in vain. After
considerable delay, the alarm reached
the lire department and when the
wagon arrived, nothing worth wthile
could be done except prevent other
surrounding houses from taking flames
also.
Practically all the furnishink were
consumed, three rocking chairs that
were on the front porch being all that
was saved. ''he house was built, in
1887 and was an eight room building.
The furniture was insured for the
amount of $500 and the house for $3,
000. So far, it las not been reported
what .lr. Anderson's exact loss is,
promised faithful discharge of the du
ties of the office if elected.
Senate.
The advent of Geo. A. lrowning, .Jr.,
of (doldville, into the senatorial race
Saturday caused quite a little ripple
in the political circles, so the interest
in the senatorial candidates Monday
was probably more noticeable thin in
an.& other candidates. Mr. Browning
lead off in this race. He spoke of be
ing a young man aspiring to high hon
ors and said that he saw no reason
.why. he should not bo aqually consid
ered with men of more advanced age.
lie said he had profitted by his experi
ence in the legislature and thought he
colid nake a valuable representative
of Laureis ciunty. He said that he
would not criticise either of his op
ponents, but that they had been in the
Senate for a number of years and he
saw no reason why any set of mteni
should' be allowed to hold ollice always.
MIr. Irowning advocated pensions for
the (Con federt e sold ie'S, m11Or1e atten -
tion to educational progress, rural
credits, state Warehouse. system and
other lmcasures simi lar to these. lie
criltii.ed the appropriation of $50,0001
by the ILegislature for law enforce
lent, saying that. it could be used as
ia campaign fund by i designing gov
ernor. Hle also Voiced opposition to
the $2.001 appropriated by the legisla
ture for legal services to be used by
tihe gover n1o'. lie spoke inl resent
itent of ia speech by Gov. .\annIlng from
which .\r. Ilrotwning drew the infer
en e i that Ilos' who voted agains t(ov.
Manning we classed by Iii ml as law
less. .\lr'. ilroin~ig said that lie was
ini favo oii f ai newi' ii J i i for 1 litirens
(ountty. lie said that he dlidi not knoiw
who was risponsible for the county
undii tooduiu thait the h)1 i ased the
wherei lie thught 8ienattor (toinnlv
cou ld ha' o lit Iit throu~tgh it he had
wanted to do it.
Seniator 0. P. (loodwln stated that it
was aln itmmtiemia~l custom11 for a canl
dildate in his home to give way to the
ot ht'ericandidates andit that he was deC
lighted to do the same tiling and wvel
conme them to ,alngston. He (11d say.
however, that he favoredl penslins for'
the old veterans, gave a resume oif hin
recordi in thle Senate in which lie told
of thle bill he introduced relating to
fertilizers which would save the farm
era a great deal of mopey. Mr. Good
win said that lhe was running Oil his
record and wotuld bo ready to defend
hlimself in the campaign.
.John ii. \Vharton made an eloquent
plea for' better educational advanltages,
good roads, rural credits, etc. lie said
that he was in favor of the state's vot
tng bonlds to the amount of $72,000 for
good roads to get the benefit of the
federal appr~lopriation for the samne
plurpiose. He advocated a new jail for
tile counity, saing~l the present jail
was nuot decent. "No matter how low"
a mani allows himself to sink, 11e said,
a decent place should be pirovlded for
lint when he is imprisoned."
ahseo Representatives.
W, ". flyrd, who was on his "native
i Contiinued on Pagre Four.)
CONGRESSIONAL CMll
Aspirants to Solicitorsh
Nicholls Absent--.W. L
A comparatively lrge number of
the voters of Laurens county were
called to order on Friday at 10:40 A.
M. in the court house by My. O. G.
Thompson, to hear the congressional
and solicitorial candidates. With very
appropriate words Judge Thompson
appealed to the hearers for fairness
and perfect attention to all the candi
dates alike. Mr. Jno. D. Mills, Jr., re
quested that he be permitted to read
several letters which he had to correct
a few mistakes he said were in circu
lation in regard to Congressman Nich
olls. Mr. Mills' request was over
ruled, but w s told that he could read
the letters at the conclusion of the
last speech. A letter from Mr. Nicholls
was read to explain his absence. Mr.
Nicholls wrote that he was detained by
ollicial duties.
Mr. David Traxler was introduced.
lie said that. he had colne to bring a
message to the voters of the district
and that if elected he would return
again at the next regular campaign
and give an account of himself. In
elociuent speech he said, "United
States owes every boy and every girl
a college education. If $700,000,000
can be expended for preparedness
(and I believe in it) why can't. this
nation spend the neasley sum of $100,
000,000 for education. Why, the un
necessary amount expended for bulle
tins that are never read, would be
suflicient to furnish the boys and girls
of the nation with free school books."
Mr. Traxler, in a spectacular way,
held up before the crowd some play
ing cards, a red light and a whiskey
bottle, saying that those were the
things against which he has battled
all of his life.
Mr. A. -I. Miller was Introduced
next. He said that he had ,no criticism
to make of his opponents-nothing to
say behind their backs. lie said that
what had just been said was merely!
-( fusS between "Sam" and "Dave" Hei
told of his success as a farmer and
that he was anxious to see the drift
froni the farm to the city cease; that
there ought to be an equnality of opiloi'
tunity whereby the farmer can hold
his own against the coimlercial world.
One of his issues is to prepare the
farnier to 'fur'nish tle world as well
as to Prepare to tight the world, lie
said that we must take the chill from
the cotton mill and put him in school
if we wouhi lift ouitli I 'aroliu I ron
the low tide of illit racy. .lust then
Mir, W. I.. (:ra re(iiested the speaker'
to express himiiself on the miatter of
wouan suffrage. .M'. Miller was finick
to aiswe' tlit le favors woman suff
rage first. last and always. Then Mr.
Traxler ''.as c'lled back to express
him~elf on the Mlter al'o. Mr. 'l'rax
Ier saild that hie was with Woodro0(i(w
Wl son. likew all t rue dlemio( rats shiould(
he; i tha hi bli eved womia n su ffraige
wvas a state issue inistead of a nat ionial
3U r. S. , ('. ood, ofi York, to Mantaige
llry (Goods llepar'iuent of (da~rdly &
Wilsoni.
Mr'. S. C. Wood, of Yor'k, arrived ini
the city last wveek to take upl his dltules
with Clardy & Wilson. Mr. Wood is
to have chiar'ge of the new driy goods
depar'tmnent of this firm wvhen it is oip
ened in thie store now occupiedl by Mr.
Terry, Mr. Wood has already met a
nutmb~er of people since arriiving In thie
city and has made a very pleasant im
pr'ession uplon thenm. The following
clipping about himn was (liken from The
Yorkvllle IEnsuir'er last. week:
"S. C, Wood left this morning t'or
Lauirons wvhere lie has a position with
the firm of Ciardy & Wilson of that
city. Mr. WVood has been a resident
of Yorkville for (lie past t('n or eleven
years, coming hiei'e when the Thuni
son Co., was organized and i'emaininig
with that stor'e until it. went. out of
business several nmonthis ago, Sine'
coming to Yorkville, Mr. Wood has
made many fr'iends here where hei
has closely allied him'self with -the
business, social and religious interests
of the town and his many friends
and acquaintances regret to lea'rn of
his departure. Heo will have chiarw' of
the dry goods (iepa:'tment of tI o
Laurens store to whkeh ho goes; and
will enteor upon his duties t.ommew '
'AIGMN CLOSD FRIDAY
ip Stated Their Claims.
. Gray asked Question.
issue.
''hen the caedidates for the solici
torship were introduced and Mr. If. S.
Blackwell was first called. He said
that in accordance with custom, he
would give his time to his opponents,
that the people of Laurons know him
well enough, quoting the poet's words
"What you are speaks so loudly that
I cannot hear what you say."
Mr. Geo. T. \lagill was then intro
duced and ie assur'ed ir. IBlackwell
that when he came to Greenwood the
same courtesy would he shown him. lie
stated that lie had been In the legal
li of'ssion for nineter ni years and that,
since a solicitor hadn't the time of a
defending atIoriey to prepare nis
speech, it is <quite necessar'y to have an
experi:..nced lawyer for the position
Hie also stated that lie solicitor is a
qri si judicial otlicer and thrat if elect
ed he would prosecute the guilty to
the extent of thw law anrid not hesitate
to nol pros any and all unnceessary
ca ses.
Mtr. T. Frank MeCord, speaking next,
gave a history of himself, saying that
lie was proud of his record and of his
opporlltiitios. lie said that the ollice
of solicitor required a man of abilt.
instead of one of wide experience.
Crime, he said, belongs to ignorance
and that the illiterate one should be
uplifted; education is the cre for
crime.
.\lr. It. V. Chairman was the last
speaker. After praising Mir. Black
well for giving his time to his oppo
nents, ie gave a life sketch of himself.
He stated that two years ago he ran
for the legislature and was elected,
that he Is retained at Newberry on
one of the most noted imurder cases,
that his opponents have good records
and that Ie seeks office not by their
demerits but by his own merits. In
closing, he refuted an argument of
one of his opponents, saying that so
licitors always had ten days to pre
pare their cases and that skill and
ability would he more valuable than
sheer ex perience.
Aft:' the regurlar vaipaigirniceet
ing, .\r. .ohn 1). \lills. in behalf of
Congressinan Nicholls, read several
letters fromr \Washingtonr otlicial in
tCnded to refiute charges that he had
been negligent of his duties in W\"ash
ingioni and that he comld have attend
ed the c'amrpaigi ui-etin _gs if he .h:du
so desired. Iliet al read a letter from
.\lr-. .1. It. lae, of Spartanbil urg. in whichi
.\Ir. lace branided as a lie the s tateme1(nt
that he had said a I h tra l h(b(n
made between Congrssmnan Nicholls
and The Spartanburg Ilerali wlhereby
.\l'. Nicholls was to torsakc this beilase
standard.
As the reting "as disni:ed .\l;.
''honpson stated Ihat this wol hi con
('lude' tire ('amplaignr ini ianrns (onnr
ty andi that the( ('ountyi (amiipaigna wiiil
openr .\londay mrorning an Iliangston,
dd;eItlhli eqjrjw.t Oiv
Wiltenrer's liarbher Shropi to Mme1.
To0 makie wvay fior tie workmein whIo
alre rimodlir ila. .\la riin buin.lhrg re
''(nt ly buo nh byu .\'r. I.. i. iiiurnrs.
Whlitenr irs ialer ~ hop. w ich hras
bree'n lh'nte'd in thlat buniliniig for mrany
year& is, will be moie toiilIi tire ('orner'
store belonw Ih ld p i~ ostI otlie recentlyi I
uisedl as a rmeat mrar'kei. Will W~hitenrer
said yesterday hei wouldi be well fixed
uip andl wourld be gladi to see his old
lpatrons there.
Fords (ointe Farst.
.\r. Will Waldr'op, mianager of thre
Cr'aig Auto (Comnpany, states that thre
bursinres dose bry his concern has been
very' gr'atifyinrg. Since last November
they have sold 71 Ford cars ind now
are almost urnalie to f111 thre dlemand
for present ordlersn. Tlhiey are expre't
ing two ear'loads in 'Iris week and al
readly hanve oir handl order'is for eight of
these.
National Del'eiraites.
Th'Ie followinu are tire 'helegates toi
thre National Conv'enrtion of Iletter ('ar
riers. which meets in Chicago Aurguiut
'8:11. J. E. Johnson, Gri' ('onr't; IR.
T). Robinson, Edgemnoo: it. i. lluay
t'.elIl. ii. "G. l.'uler, of thr's c')Uty, w1e
elected a delegate burt he w Ul be .n
able to gro on1 acenunt of sicenn.
CLOVER C.LUB CIROWS.
Over 11,000 Pounds now Spoken For.
Order for Seced has been Placed.
Over 11,000 pounds of seed have
been spoken for in the Clover club.
Farm Demonstrator Moore placed an
order for 1 5,000 pounds last week and
tl'inks that it will he neeessary to or
der more. Over 5,000 pounds have
been spoken for inl Clinton alone, ac
cording to Mr. Stone. the secretary of
the Chamber of Commerce of that city.
The following are additional names in
eluded in the Clover (lub, excluding
those from Clinton:
'rotat last week .. . . . . ,400
W\. 1i. Hlarlon .......... .... oo
M. A. li(dle .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 60
V. P. Sullivan .. .. .... .. .. .10
lI. L2. Islakely . .. . .. . .. 150
L. (. Ialle .. .. .. .,........ ;0
W. Al. Nash .............. 120
W . M. lyers .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 20)
S. Is. Owens .. ..............10
Geo. C. I lopkins .. .. .. .. .. 10
I,. It. I tend erson .. .. .. .. .. 1(00
I). .l. Ilolider .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
A . C . iloit .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 80
.1. W. lleels .. .. ...... .... 0
It. .\ . O w ings .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . 0
l. It. 'lariy ....................20
.1. I'. Ilopkins .. .. .. .. .... 0
S ot (eorge-.. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2
Iewis .\n(lerson .. .. .. .. .. .. 15(1
i. .1. ITangston .. .. .. .. .. .. 211
I). I'. ltoozer .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 150
T. J1. C'olemlan .. .. .. .(.). ,
W. II. .lahatfey ...............25
A . 11. I 1 .1.(1 .. .. .. .. .. .. 21
Total ................11,705
At Warrior Creek Church.
The ladies of th e Y. W. A. (.t War
rior ('reek Church will give ;n ice
renm supper at the home of Mr. Sam
.1. }turns, I'riday night August the
eleventh. beginning at six ('<-lock. A
cordial invitation is extended to
BiUns Haiytes Four.
.\lr. .1. i. 'T'ollisotn has recent y pur
chased a e l' t aynes "1' tonl iig car
and is now enjoying the many pieas
ures it affords. lie dec(ied not to
trade in his Cadillac rounaoaut. so he
now has a touring car when that is
needed and a runabout for 3 s formal
occasions.
I'attersotn 'amilt IReIunion.
The anual reliiotn of I it littrson
fatmily will be held 'I'lTursdy . August
' Ith. at the ' Itohin 'l'atte r: 11 r rings.
All the des'cetndanlts, inl-h;\\ ;.lid con
net'lioni are'( ex\pected to <(Il C w.ith.
wel-Itilled1 baslkets. We' ,i;lc(rst.aud
t.hlat ()iur comlllliitte of a:neel
have a very iiterustliug I r 3ga.n: ioi
3 thif' o('lasjin atnd ill i .\p ( ver
leIa sait. t imte. We w\ ih ::.. t at I3
4c,'c~loe 01romp itly.
.1. I'e .,tng tIon,
.!rS. \\. 11. 1'at te1r(on, L:;l mtand.
111(d Soldiers' ltetnion.
The annuital reunion of :,('. 1', t I 4 (
re iit it, S. C. \'., wilt t' 1,ld at
Langston cu11(1(1 on Saturda , Al.
(us 1 th h pubtik is invit' tt u t at
33'd CoIwith w -il h-d .. t b i It .h1V the~t
tdinner. ont~tson 3 ('i t
Ineeg the toftenon t hereI wlt3 l (I oa
iin whih axingo, ySeibet <" 8p.t
To prticipoat' wAse~elal otado the
Woexotendnedm] urn theni o e pesn t
few ~ys.Thos "'h wis to scudt.
het'na de wiadh thegairt e.ta
fropervit s1.1. sltlumerdt andi . (n
layrCommission(Ierl.t ha' foitt havt beenay
deletes t he wiouther mAla13tian
folod. Road5 s tionven 3 tin wIch et
Woodroti a kow1 Wiloni.Fund. (
Three..d....ar..w....add.dto the
Mioldr ilsoen n of~t duitheu past
fw. da. Thosue wio wis to rend in
lato TheiAdvyrterry 1'for ~aultuday
amouti~ halle ted' to( tha dit.Th
M.'.r oo s .. . .). t. C l t, . . . . . n. o . 1.0
Ttd at ..or.. .. .. .. .. ..sto .$13.50
hosita yestdyay. U toui ia
DOLLAR DAY BARGAINS
Off[R[D IN [AR[S
Merchants Co-Operate to
Offer Special Bargains
DOLLAR BARGAINS
IN EVERY STORE
Great ( o-Operative Enterprise on tlo
Part of Lauros Mexrlants Decided
on at a Meet.ing Wle dnicesdny 1orning.
tFriday, August 18th 8electe'd.
At an informal meeting of mer
chants held last Wednesday morning
It was definitely decided to have a
"J)oilar Day" bargain sale in latu
rens when the people of all the sur
rolunding cotunty and adjoining coun
ties will he attracted here by the bar
gains which they expect to offer. Ac
colding to the plan outlined at tho
lut ing0, every mlerehant going into
the elterp'ise is expected to lay out
a nitttnber of articles or groups of ar
ti les worth ordina-rily more than a
dollar and these will be offered at the
dollar price. As nearly every merchant
in town is going into tsh' agreement
and atld the special offers will he so
nltmcrots, it is thought that thousands
of visitors will he attracted to the city
on act ount of them. IVriday, August
18, has been decided on as thew Dol
lar DIny.
The mayor and counlil have been
ret(uested to give general surveilanco
of traile for the (lay and to provido
ice water for the visitors. 'I'The iler
chants are making plans for a great
day of it and no doubt the people will
be here by the lndreds and thous
ands.
The fol!owing merchants have al
ready signified their willingners to go
into the enterprise and to cffnr spe
cial dollar day bargains on t: it day:
8Swit:.or ('empany.
8'. 11. & 11. i. W lkes & Co.
Minter Co.
.1. C. Burns & Co.
Powe )rug Co.
It. 'erry.
('lardy & Wilson.
laurens Drug Co.
I'-everttete urnIitur e Co.
"-ashI (it o'r'ry Co.
1. C. Shell &. Co.
Dhavis-Roper Co.
W. G. Wilson &. Co.
.:enlr~l-'TIalfor t iaadware ('
!.:anicul I lardware Co.
I. . l'hilpot.
"'I i~nrPt.
UI . Ia Iy td , Iii.
Fli Rin I ros.
I '.p.i ruandt t Store.
. lil a ior t o ,
last r((' tO PI'tiy a st et . .I
.' t t 'piand ty-ss O~lcn~ n 1
il ,tinfa tie Parodsins.~ai
Th -la'1 itg o ohlh (:,.- lieps,
ll'cl weekl'O t'l rvn sr-l 50 th
Aiy y oriing Achlden to o
l0ylo firture hwson of i reinoo
tntraeg fa ti~n nlaq farer eare ti
city, had davelopd cal yterW.ayt Mill
11i0la. W, hit Ihnhus o swim, i id >
tofie ipro~b ting the cap wi:v.
beeni. Itepo lodrit fandtel
totdonea i llown, teye lonof. 'Tomnt
Brwn, ai pr~ioneat farmer, bittta
cy ha a ~los aletra.atr
nn.Wil n swbimminghe oun
to ir it 11? byt triokng t cap wtital
al nailt4. ~-ItCxlodd aen the bal en-.
lyered eal list eye.om Dr.Vinen
walson led at yone, but ' --
abe o hWalto x to an htwen I
tauddnl 'tVIat heImeS in cOrty Cor
yesIray hile in pursuit of 'rlm
ly:d dth himl aom 'in
rehoisve. . edfr ,
