fc af-f. iMa
USTANGIAt EDITION
'
Ite&ger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
uenmn
VOL. H.-NO. 1G1
rniLADELPHIA, MONDAY, MABOII 20, 1016.
CoriBtonr, 1010, r ini Pcblio Limki Couriitr.
frige omm amsrs
GREAT ALLIED' AIR FLEET
OF SIXTY-FIVE PLANES RAIDS
NAVAL BASE AT ZEEBRUGGE
3qUadr
i r J 1
ron oi .orrasn,
French and Belgian
Machines Take Part
in Attack
- i L. TT..i.- 1
German rosiuon uu jciuuuiuu
Also Bombarded initeon
Armored Planes Fight Off
fFoea as Raiders Drop Bombs
ft and Escapo
U. ' '
jjujlish Start Reprisal Policy Follow-
K nff Attnc a on iasc tioasc aunaay,
Wnen 11 Persons Were Killed.
! Paris Reports Succoss of Air Bat
tle -in Alsaco
t
LONDON, March 20
I At1l.4 nrnnlnna tinmHnfrlnrl ttm
' JjUfc?",,Cl4 OClW.l. mw....vv ...u
german naval bnso at Zcobrugge, Belgium,
B.1 tho military norodomo at Houltn.de, It
. Afflclallv nnnouncod today.
,f The raid, which was tho most ambitious
U attempted against tho German posl
lions In Belgium, was mado this morning.
I Bombs were dropped upon tho munitions
iiipots at Zeebrugge ana upon suomarines
In Uie namor.
All the machines returned Bafely to their
iuThe following ofllclal statement was ls-
udby the Admiralty:
In the early hours of this morning
a. combined force of approximately BO
British, French nnd Bolglum air and
tea planes, accompanied by IB fight
ing machines, attached tho German
itaplano station at Zeebruggo and
the aerodromo at Iloltadt, near Zco-
.bniEeo.
'1 Considerable damago appears to
If tan been done. The machines car-
ZuA nn nn nvttrntrn nf 200. TlOUmls of
inloslves each. All tho machines re-
iturned safely to their base. Only one
iBeldan officer was reported to have
f'Uea seriously Injured. All tho Brlt-
hh machines were naval.
f START NEW POLICY.
JToday's air rnld on the German sea-
wioa base, one of tho greatest sky at-
(UcHs made by tho Allies In Belgium In
tniaoy months, was also tho first instance
la which allied airmen carried tno war to
the enemy's air camp Immediately after
antair Invasion of England This policy,
II Js"understood, will bo pursued In every
ease hereafter. Lord Derby mado this de
cision Immediately nfter ho nssumed office
asjpmofflclal aviation minister," 5t was
rcporiou.
Ml'was recalled, too., that Col Winston
CMfdUl) -former First Lord of tho Ad.
wlralty. In, his recent speech in Parlia
ment, declared that tho only way to stop
Zoppela and seaplane raids was by.
counter-raids, destroying German aircraft
la their sheds.
U Sunday's air laid on England, In which
li persons were killed and more than 31
injured, was only one of a number di
rected by tho Germans from tho seaplano
bass flt KpAbrni?rrp nnlv n fw hours' t1li?ht
across (ho Encllsh Channel.
lr'Thi report on the raid revealed tho
fact that the French War Office has Bent
Jcorps pf experienced French nvlators to
fi.ngiB.na to nelp protect the coasts. Ono
trench machine was engaged In tho aerial
battle which followed thn rirnnnlnp nf
bombs at Ilamsgate, whore a military hos
pital was struck.
L"Bombs dropped into Dover Harbor fell
Mir a transport loaded with troops. Many
projectiles were thrown Into the Dover
Harbor from a height of 6000 feet, evi
dently aimed at warshlna anchored thara.
fr Of the four German aeroplanes which
riov part mrae aro believed to hae
e&capea back to their base, the fourth was
hot down Into thn Vnrth Ron
IffBombs wero also dropped at Deal and
aureate, vvnero there aro big munitions
Plants.
$A new kind of bomb, filled with shrap-
's'. was nyneu aown by the German
filers. Tho walla of nn nrnhnnnir.
wrecked by ono of tho bombs were found
to be peppered with bits of shrapnel. Only
Continued on fago Four, Column Two
Norrlstown's Oldest Citizen Dies
Charles Lewis. 97 years old, tho oldest
resiaent of the town. Is dead. Ho served
1A Town r?A11n.U ,.. u ,j nr..
141 .IF ana was a director of tho Penn
w company, two sons nnd a daugh-
r -myiiv
I teE WEATHER
"yero. calor redlt osslbus."
T ,. """", yu mo on ino vergo
Kr,....Beaaon when "heat returns to the
SS,'l1 Rome, Virgil, Spring Is 'to come
rom.y' . P yet wltn 'he wlna and par-
U019 Of thftt rlo!o,,,Kl . . X-t-
Bny persons it this lata day are hurling
tenas B,1 ,he lat0 wundhoar. who,
ln. , '"v BI1U a"ow or uanaiemaa
IcSi!, ,ecl?red 'hat early spring would"
gV.i wiSB lne following six weeks.
riSJ. i-l '!? he nuallfled for member-
net i -Bo uieaumnuji, no uiu
M lr flaeny- Even tho Weather
? .a come t0 hIa aefense. He says
fn,i'n Feb"uary '3 to March IB,
ftroundhog weather" was not unusually
J?. Quoting an average temperature of
ifan.tJ :"" ' ueiow normal ana other
ltoL-.l8J,re8 that showed that period to
rentirelv nnmii .... ..... r n
Slid mlr.A -.-" " 5iua Pu(H
feonii ,' vuu4eu oeen mrown imo
S.mw ls bIamed Ior COM". COUghB,
oachltla. grip, pleurisy, catarrh, tonsil
Hft Pneumonia and the undertaker.
St i ' l0 quote "Tom" Moore, another
eu-knovvn spring noet:
Prlng would be but, gloomy weather
- , nuiaing eisa but apring"
Allies Fight Germans
for Aerial Supremacy
In retaliation for Sunday's raid
by German seaplanes on English
enst coast towns, G5 British,
French and Belgian planes at
tacked Zeebruggc, the German
submarine base, and the Belgian
town of Houltade at nn early hour
this morning.
Fifteen armored fighting planes
convoyed tho bomb-bearing air
craft to the Belgian towns, to en
gage enemy airmen.
Nineteen French neroplnnes
took part in the attack upon Gor
man positions on tho Rnli'lnn
I coast early today. All returned
sateiy, according to an ofiicinl
statement, issued by the Paris
War Office,
In the German raid on tho .Brit
ish east coast, 11 persons "were
killed nnd 31 injured. Four air
craft took part in the foray, ono
of which was brought down in n
duel wth a British nviator. The
raiders dropped 48 bombs on
Dover, Margate, Ramsgate, West
gate, doing considerable damage
to homes and institutions.
Tho French War Office reported
last night that in a great aerial
battle over Muelhausen, Upper
Alsace, 23 aeroplanes engaged a
German air fleet. The French lost
four machines and the Germans
three. In another raid, in which'
Metz was shelled, the French
brought down two more German
air machines.
ML E. CONFERENCE
LAUDS GOVERNOR
FOR BOOZE STAND
Delegates Praise Brum
baugh and Smith for Op
position to Liquor
GET $33,500 IN GIFTS
Will Fight All Legislators Op
posed to Temperance
Reform
Today's Program
4 p. m. Pentecostal service in
charge of the Rev. C. M. Boswell,
D. D.
8 p. m. Anniversary of the
Bonrd of Foreign Missions. Ad
dresses by the Rev. Arthur C.
James, pastor of Calvary Church,
Ambler, and by Bishop William F.
Oldham, corresponding secretary
of tho Board of Foreign Missions.
Music by tho St. James choir.
Peace in Sight, London
Shipping Firm Cables
GALVESTON, Tex., March 20.
A cablegram from n prominent
ship-chartering firm jin Lbndon,
received jicre todny, said that im
mediate peace is in sight in Eu
rope. The message canceled arrange
ments for n large amount of ton
nage which was to have been ship
ped from hero to the belligerents.
10-CEXT SUGAR COMING
Refiners Predict Prico May
Three Conts Before End
of Year
Riso
Support for Governor Brumbaugh and
all State nnd city olllclals who are light
ing for prohibition or local option wai
pledged today nt tho fifth business ses
sion of the Philadelphia Annual Confer
ence of the : ethodlst Episcopal Church,
at St. James' Church, Olney.
Tho members nf tho conference, repre
senting more than 300 churches nnd 80,000
members, cnit the unanimous decision to
enter the fight against liquor by printing
and sending broadcast tho report of tho
conference's tempornnco society, presented
Saturday by tho llev It E. Johnson, presi
dent of tho society.
Tho report, which tho members bellexo
Continued on I'nKo Two, Column Tivor
Tho retail prlco of sugar in Philadel
phia today Is Roen cents n pound. It is
still going up, nnd no one knows how high
It may go Somo refiners say It may go as
high as 10 conts a pound beforo the year
Is out
Itetaltors nsert they make no profits
whatever on sugar nnd that re,tnll prices
In Philadelphia aro nlways tho snmo ns
the wholesale prices
The Pennsjtvnnla Iteflnlng Company
quotes tho pilco todny for standard crys
tallized at seven cents n pound. Other re
finers quote G 90 cents n pound
Whllo tho rctnllers claim that they buy
from dnv to day and Just keep nbrenst of
tho market, there ls talk of speculation
going on homewhere Tho refineries aro
sold bejond their capnrlt, and those In
Philadelphia have received orders nt tho
loner prices which prevailed somo tlmo
ago for about 800,000 barrels, which would
be equal to tho supply for Philadelphia
for about six weeks
Tho assistant sales manager of ono of
the largest roflncrles said todny that In
tho present condition of tho sugar markot
no ono can predict with any degree of cer
tainty how high tho retail prlco of sugar
may go The situation, ho said, ls largely
In the hnnds of tho growers In Cuba, and
they may raise their prices so that sugnr
would command ob high as 10 cents a
pound at retnll.
U. S. SOLDIERS
ATTACK VILLA,
BORDER HEARS
Report of a Clash With
Outlaw Patrol Eeaches
Laredo, Texas
BANDITS HEMMED IN
Fleeing Bands Believed
Trapped in Mountains of
Galeana District
Unconfirmed reports from Laredo,
Tex., arc to tho effect that the Amer
ican troops, sent into Mexico to hunt
down Francisco Villa, had clashed
with the outlow bands.
Movement of tho expeditionary
forces indicated that Villa and his
bands were surrounded in the Guer
rero Mountain regions, Gnleann dis
trict, Chihuahua State.
From the north he is pressed by tho
forces of Colonel Dodd, in the lead,
and Gencrnl Pershing, closely follow
ing. On the west, tho passes into Sonorn,
through tho Sierra Madres, aro said
to be guarded by Cnrranza troops,
while to the south and cast Carranza
garrisons at Madera and Namiquipa
are said to bar escape. However, tho
net is thinly drawn and Villa may
QUICK NEWS
FOUR ANNAPOLIS MEN DISMISSED
ANNAPOLIS, Md., Mnich 20. Dismissal of four midshipmen
from the Naval Academy was announced today. C H. Iylc, of Ten
nessee, first class, and Thomas II. Davis, of South Caiolina, and Fran
cis Kelly, of Nov York, thhd class, wcio dismissed by order of Sec
retary Daniels for drinking. Jaruo E. Betts of Iowa, was expelled
for jyresit disobedience.
ATTEMPT TO ASSASSINATE BULGAR PREMIER
ItOMC, Mnreh 20 A Bulgarian postal omployo attempted to assnsslnat
Premier Itndnslnvoff. In Sofia yesterday, according to dispatches recolvod here
today. Ho llred tvvico at Ilndoslavoft whilo tho Premier was riding In an open
carriage. Ono of tho bullets Btruck tho Primo Minister's coachman, but tho
Prime Minister escaped injury.
NORWAY WOULD AID IN PEACE MOVEMENT
CimiSTIAXTA. March 20. Norway stands ready to help tho United States
bring about pcaco in nuropo. Doctor Ihlen, tho Foreign Minister, in addressing
a deputation of tho Ford pcaco delegates, headed by Dr. Charles P. Alced, said
that Norway Is .desirous In assisting pcaco efforts.
Continued on l'nicf bit. Column Tno
65 ALLIED AEROPLANES PLUNGE DOWN ON GERMAN BASE IN BELGIUM
' MEAT PRICES RISE TWO CENTS A POUND
An Increase of about 2 cents a pound on meats was made today in butcher
shops becnuso "America is feeding tho world in wartime" Meats aro usually
high at this season, but this year tho incrcaso is greater. Ilctallcrs explain
that they are following tho packers In "boosting" prices, and tho packers, iti-turn,
say tho largo espoitSnro responsible. No decrenso may bo expected until tho
Texns range eattlo aro nvnllnblo for tho trade, a denier said. In somo shops
Iamb an pork liavo gradually risen in prices until they aro now.O and 7
cents a pound above normal.
SLAYER OF TWO DETECTIVES MUST DIE
The Supremo Court today confirmed tho Judgment of tho lower court in
finding Jacob Miller, slayer of two detectives, guilty of murder of tho first
degree. Tho crime was committed March 2flth Inst whon Miller was arrested
for a minor offense. A few minutes after his arrest he shot Detectives" James
Maneely, killing him Instantly, and Harry E. Tucker, who died several weeks
later in tho Episcopal Hospital. Counsel for Miller averred thero had been a
technical error in tho trial. Miller Is now under sentence of death, and' will
bo executed unless tho Board of Pardons intervenes In his behalf. '
CONSUL'S BODY WASHED AWAY FROM SEASIDE GRAVE
WASHINGTON, March 20. Tho body of Robert McNcely, tho American
Consul to Aden, Arabia, drowned when tlio PorBla was sunk Bomo weeks ago
and later discovered washed up on tho desert coast of Egypt, has again dis
appeared, according to a cablegram to tho State Department from Consul Carrels,
at Alexandria. Egypt.
Tho body when found was burled nearby to await word from McNeelyV"
relatives in North Carolina". The cablegram reporting its burial waa received
nt tho department February 23. March 17 Garrels cabled that lie had sent VIco
Consul Tuck to tho placo of burial, when it was found that heavy storms had
washed away tho place of burial and tho body.
WAGES OF 1300 SILK MILL EMPLOYES INCREASED
AITOONA, Pa., March 20. The 1300 operatives in tho silk mill hero today
were notified of a 10 per cent, increnso in wages.
Drawp by Dais, staff artist of the Kemno i.edoto
Zeebrugge, on tha Belgian const, has been visited by n great fleet of aircraft, all of which returned safely.
TWO YOUNG MEN FIGHT
SAVAGELY WITH BARE
KNUCKLES FOR PURSE
U. OF P. TUITION FEES
MAY BEJNCREASED
FORECA RT
IFar Plliltnlnlnhin r,,,l ,,V,'.V., f.,
Wnllf''i't.?ht.Srob-
rt-fr -, uy rum, ot snow j ties
mJ al0WJ rtimg temperature; gen-
fit T-- fVW VVVIIHJ 4VftWlVrtt
; v uemiM see page 4,
Pair Battle Fiercely in Locked
Stable Until One Falls Help
less After Blow
to Heart
FANS WAIT OUTSIDE
Two young men, ono of them an ama
teur boxer, locked themselves In the hay
loft of a stable at B10 Pine street yester
day and nfter the manner of the famous
Sullivan-Kllraln bout of old fight days,
fought a terrific battle to a finish with
bare knuckles for a purse of $420. It ls
estimated that $6000 changed hands as a
result of the fight.
The agreement vvas that the man who
was first to leave the battle arena In the
stable would be declared tho winner of
the contest. The two men fought It out
alone. Standing on the curb on Pine
street, near the stable, vvee 50 or mora
"fight fans," who vvajted breathlessly for
the winner to stagger forth from the
stable.
The thud of hard knuckles falling on
naked bodies and tha shuffling of swiftly
moving feet occasionally reached the ears
of the fans as unsuspecting churchgoers
passed by them on tholr way to the Old
Pino gtroet Presbyterian Church. 4 th and
pine streets. Tha 3d and Do Lancey
streets station house is only four squares
away from tho stable, but the police knew
nothing of tha primitive battle which was,
being wtfsed in tha building
The contestants were Charles Schwartz,
of the Sherman, HoteL 31? Walnut
street, ana aiise jserhowui, oi iutn
LOST AND PQUNB
M?)-NiR Kivjq Lost' three-stone diamona
i3h. w,M loot Id vicinity of ieth and
SU l'.t pr near tla Hotel AbbV, 234
SStov SFi.Vt 'STt " rra 0S..1iH-
2lrSfi1,.u,lt e-.eUw bis bo Mr
I'.' 0. atubfla. ini IIlIi llamro 1 H
fcuT. ,n Zm' ... , - " . J street near DteWnson, kaovvu in, auaUut
.stoHa anil white celU, , lust siwiwera lo I " "
VW l-t ai yeasi A4t ias"l
Provost Smith Says Growth in
Expenditures May Cause
Raise
CjfitluKil n l"ii jo Two. Ctiliijain tj
The tuition for all courses at the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania will be raised un
less the Income of the college is increased.
It was announced today by authorities
The cost of maintaining the college has
Increased noticeably of (ate, according to
Provost Smith, and unless the appropria
tion from the State and donations from
private sources are Increased the Increase
In tuition will have to come, the provost
said.
The advance in rates would affect 7000
students. The college course ls now $150,
as is tha Wharton School course. Tha
architectural school course ls J200, Pro
vost Smith said he 4ld not know how largo
tho increase would be, but that he would
have to figure It out to meet the increas
ing expenses.
"Something must be done boon," said
tha provost "expenses are Increasing and
professors are demanding higher salaries.
We must grant them, too, if we hope to
hold our place among the foremost Amer
ican Institutions of learning. I am afraid
that we are gradually coming to a point
where an increase in the tuition rate will
le necessary."
Man Kills Himself With Gas
Jacob Seuffert, CO years eld, of 330
West Diamond street, committed suicide
by Inhaling ga His body was found In
his bedroom this morning by his house
keeper. A boss attached to a sos jet
led to his mouth. Friends of Seuffert state
that he hadbeen despondent for several
months, owlijg to business worries- He
was the proprietor of a cider saloon, Re
cently ha Inserted advertisements la sev
eral newspaper? for employment as a bak.
r. It la said ha -received no replies,
PLAN TO ADJOURN
CONGRESS BY JULY 1
Special Rules Will Limit De
bate on Routine Bills Many
Likely to Fail
By a Staff Corrtftonient
WASHINGTON, March 20. Special
rules to force through all routine legisla
tion with minimum debate are to be re.
ported by tha House Rules Committee In
an effort to bring about adjournment ot
Congress by July 1. That plan was ans
nounced today by Acting Chairman Pou,
of the Rules Committee. He expects to
get Speaker Clark, Democratic leader
Kltchln and other prominent Democratic
members to support the plan.
Chairman Pou said ha did not propose
to "gag" the House on new legislation, but
on routine measures, such as tha annual
appropriation bills, which are much the
same each year, it Is proposed to cut
"general debate" to the limit. Ordinarily
many hours are given to general debate,
and as a result the members who get
time then do not use It In discussing the
measure under consideration, but devote it
to the delivery of "home consumption"
speeches.
Not one of the big annual appropriation
bills has been enacted Into law, and
Congress has been In session since the first
week of December. With H annual ap
propriation measures before. It in addi
tion to the national defense legislation
and such measures as the Immigration bill
and rural credits bill, it Is realized "speed-lng-up"
methods must be resorted to if
Congress Is to adjourn before fall.
The special rules will not apply only to "
appropriation measures. The general de
bate on the Immigration bill will be cut,
because that bill has passed both houses
of Congress la the Taft and Wilson ad
ministrations, but failed to become a law
because ofiprtsUantUl vetoJV,
SUDDEN RICHES, FAST
LIVING, TRAGIC END
OF YOUNG WIDOWER
Story of Suicide of a Former
Railroad Brakeman Who
Married Wealthy Woman
in 1914
WAS RAISED ON A FARM
The tragedy of a country boy, who
came into sudden wealth at the suicide of
a wealthy widow he had married, and then
took his own life at the end what the
police say was a red trail of wine, women
and races, was revealed today in a tele
gram to the father of the youth.
"William Murphy," It said, "suicide in
Arlington Hotel, Hot Springs, Ark. pen
niless. Body on way to Philadelphia."
The father, John C. Murphy, is an In
valid and critically 1.5 at his home, 6$2
North 6 6 th street
"Poor Billy," he said. "Poor Billy But
maybe it was for the best"
In October. 19H, young Murphy, a
brakeman on the Pennsylvania Railroad,
married a wealthy widow several years
his senior, Mrs. Marlon Barker, of Wayne,
Pa. Murphy gave up his job on the rail
road and took a palatial home at 61S3
Columbia avenue. Ju;t nine months after
the marriage, on June 4. 1915, his bride
shot herself through the brain. Nervous
prostration Is thought to have been the
reason. All her fortune -was willed to
her husband.
The sudden riches within the grasp ot
the youth who had been born and raised
on a farm in Farmlogton, Del. were too
much for Murphy, who, according to his
sister, Miss Florence Murphy, had never
until then really known the meaning of
"plenty." "The lure of riches w spend on
BRAZIL'S MINISTER SILENT ON SHIP SEIZURE REPORT
RIO DB JANCinO, March 30. Dr. Lauro S. Mueller, Brazilian Minister of
Foreign Affairs, today refused to deny or confirm Liverpool advices stating
that many German ships interned in Brazilian ports had been seized. Ho said,
howover. that tho Government had been working ever since tho war began for
a solution of tho navigation problem, and that ho hoped for united action by
all tho countries of America.
1
800,000 FRENCH CHILDREN FATHERLESS THROUGH WAR
PARIS, March 20, KIght hundred thousand French children have been
mado fatherless by tho war according to a statement made by Senator Jenovrier
In a debate in tho Senate, Trls number exceeds by 10 per cent the average total
births in France. Half the childhood of France, lie estimates, will be brought
up without a paternal guide,
BRITISH SAILORS RESCUED FROM ARAB TRIBESMEN
LONDON, March 20. Ninety members of tho crew of the British armed
steamship Tara, who wero captured by Senussl tribesmen when the ship was
sunk by a German submarine off tho Egyptian coast last November, have
been rescued by British forces, it was announced today by tho Admiralty.
BERLIN'S FOOD ALLOWANCE INCREASED
BERLIN, March 20, Increased food supplies aro granted to tho people of
Berlin by regulations that went into effect today. The allowance of butter "was
Increased to 135 grams a week nnd potatoes to ten pounds for 12 days. AH
purchases must bo made by ticket. The Overseas News Agency stales that this
measure is only temporary, being adopted until general distribution plans cat,
be formulated.
NAMUR AMMUNITION DEPOTS BLOWN UP
LONDON, March 20, A Central News dispatch from Amsterdam reports
that three ammunition depots were destroyed by a series of explosions In the
German forts at Namur.
i
NURSE GETS $4812 FOR CRIPPLED ARM
LANCASTER, Pa., March 20. After 31 hours' deliberation, the Jury today
rendered a verdict for 14812 against Dr. Newton Bltzer In favor of Miss Rosa
Hergenrother, a professional nurse, who suedi for damages on the ground that
tho defendant had treated Improperly her broken arm, which left It crippled.
PRINCE OF WALES IN EGYPT
LONDON, TMarcH 20. "The Prince of "Wales has arrived in Egypt on appoint
ment as staff captain to tho general officer commanding in chief the Mediterranean
expeditionary force," says an. ofllclal statement Issued last night The present corn-,
mander-in-chlef of the Mediterranean army is Lieutenant General Sir Archibald
Murray, who vvus succeeded by Sir "William Robertson as chief of the Imperial
General Staff. Ills headquarters are in Cairo,
PRINTERS OF MERCIER'S LETTER ARRESTED
, BERLIN, March 20. German authorities In Brussels have arrested a printer
and four employes, who printed the pastoral letter Issued by Cardinal Merder,
Primate of Belgium, on his return recently from Rome, as the Initial step against
them for violating an order of the Governor General forbidding the publication ol
any matter not submitted to the censor. In the pastoral letter Cardinal Mercier
said that, while at one time he doubted the prospects of final lctory, his faith
had been restored as a result of his conversations with North Americans and
South Americans, who had. Inspired him with unshakable confidence Jn Belgium's
victory.
FORMER ACADEMY STUDENT WINS PAINTING PRIZK
Miss Eisa Laubach, former student of the Academy of the Fine Arta. nam
a resident of St Paul. Mlrn. has been awarded the gold medal given eaah i'tf
by James J Hill for the most noteworthy canvas displayed t tm St Pwa
Institute- It is considered a high honor. Hiss Laubach received two. Butobmus
0aUaataa 7ae Xwa. Csfcuaa Om Ewwiirsnips vcuo a, ttuaont at ma academy la jm City, ,
ffl
I
11
it
4
