S first announced January 1. 1916. he Herald TE WASMM NEy2fB RW Mr
A garantees full...e,-s..,,ths..,te prhsers A-i 426.42742nEeeikSet
of articles advertised in the disPlay cohmns of this All departaenta-dital. Dramatk' New. Iport 3u
Pape by any Washington merchant. - E RA:5.I"L.D7'*; .-7 iiiA.,'|
(Ci--ider Furnisked Upon Re~e). - exchange- MAIN 3300
NO. 3441. - WEATHER: FAIR AND WARMEL WASHINGTON, D. C.. MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1916. . ONE CENT.
GERMANS RAID
KENTISH COAST
IN SEAPLANES
Drop Forty-eight Bombs, Kill
ing Nine Persons and In
juring Thirty-one.
DOVER HARBOR SHELLED
Canadian Hospital at Rams
gate Struck, But Inmates
Escape Hurts.
BRITISH AIR FLEET PURSUES
One Teuton Machine Is Followed
Thirty Miles to Sea. Where
Observer Is Killed.
c:- as Cable in 'l-e ttag'to H-rakij.
London. March I:.-NIno persons wre
Illed and thirty-one injured today in
anoti- ;erman aeroplano raid on the
Kentiah coaat. The raider', four In num
ber. dropped forty-e;Iht honb.
iover and its harbor Acre sheiled. the
towns Deal and Margate were bombarded,
and only prompt a-tion by a Britisi
aviator warded off an attack on West
gat.
The I-anailan hoepital :t tam:A-t.
was struck b a Fing - proje tile, bit no
casualtes r Fulted
One ierman seaplane w% pr
thirty miles to sea h. a British aviator
In a on.-eatel mach no. where lIe ei
ga;ed the raider in an action which
lasted for fifteen minute-_ T':e raider
was brou:ht down and the observer
Killed.
Four Planes in Raid.
The u ar office tonhght Osued the follow
ing statement:
"Four German scaplanes bombarded the
east coat of Kent today.
The first pair appeared over Dover.
flying at a height of from t to w)
feet. One dropped six bombs in the
harbor and then Proceeded northwest.
dropping bombs en the town. The other.
after pawing Dover, appeared over Deal
and dropped several bombs.
"The second pair bombarded r-ams
zate. after which one went west and the
other north, pursued by a British aero
plane. ()n- bomb was dropp-:d on Mar
;ate. The second machin- appeared over
Vet:;ate. wher our aeroplanes enga7ed
in hi, pursuit and no bombs were
droppe..
9 Killedi 11 Injured.
Th- casualties Fo far reported are nine
k:led and thirty-one injured. As far as
can he ascertainedl. forty-elght bombs
were dropped.
"One bomb fll on the*Canadian hos
lital at Ramsgate. ca u.n; ,om, damage
to the building. but no casualties.
Mlaterial damage was inflicted on severat
hoise.
'Flight Commander Bone, in a single
seater aeroplan,. pursued one raider
thirty miles to 4ea where, after an action
lasting a quarter of an hour, the raider
wa for-ed to descend and the observer
as k'lod."
Ilover. March 19.-In today's aeroplane
ra.d narrow escapes occurred at a cer.
tain , haritable institution at Dover. where
there ar.- a large number of children.
One bomb went through the roof and
caused exitansive damage.
tine of the sisters in charge was cut
about the airns by falling tiles, but hap
pily none of the children were in this
Pirt of the hone at the time. On the
first sound of the raiders the children
Aere taken to the basement.
The churches narrowly escaped damage,
coe bomb wrecking a store and stables
nearby. ItI another case a bomb ex
ploded ten iards from a church.
A woman was killed In her home. A
boy was walking in a street of the town
when a bomb fell close by. killing him
instantly.
Two men are reported killed in an
other part of the town, and several were
Injured. Four children on their way to
Sunday school wre killed.
RUSS MINISTER RESIGNS.
Khvostof Gives Up laterier Depart
ment Portfolio.
Petrograd. March 19.-Minister of the
Interior Alexei Micholaevitch Khvostoli
has resigneud. Hius portfolio has been
taken over by Prime Minister Basil Vladi
mnirovitch Sturner. The premier will re
lain his position on the head of the
cabinet.
M. Sturmer, former privy counselor.
succeeded Jean L. Goremykine as pre
iter February 1. He had long been
known as one of the principal leadera
of the conservative wing of the council
of tne Russian Empire. or the senate.
Now Comes Hairless Cow.
Gold Beach. Oreg.. March 19.-A milch
cow belonging to U. M. Moore, of this
place, recently put out of eommisaon the
lighting plant of the Gold Beach Hotel.
The hotel Uses acetylene gas, generated
in an abaadoned well in the hotel ysard.
The cow broke threiught the planking over
the well, fell forty feet to the water anid
managed to swim far, an hour until help
could be summnoned, The carbide wIth
whlich the water was impregnated re
mavae4 all the hairfomtea.m
Member of Vatican
Household Is Dead
4 ARDIA. 1OTTI.
om . March 19. Cardinal Gotti, pre
f, I of tn Propjgii and one of the
best-knowii in enhers of the Vatican
hois.<eld. died at tle Vatican today.
RUSS ATTACK;
9,000 KILLED
Berlin Reports that Many
Bodies Counted After
Drive Fails.
BITTER FIGHTING WEST
OF DVINSK, LONDON HEARS
Petrograd Declares Artillery Actions
Have Been Frequent on Riga Front
But Is Silent About Losses.
Scnial 4 aue to Th. Walhington Hera
London. March 19.-Nine thousand Rus
sians were left lying on one section of
the hattlefield after an unsuccessful of
fensive against the Germans west of
Dvinsk, according to a Berlin war office
announcement today.
The ittacks were launched in the Take
district west of the Dvina. The heaviest
fighting was around ikes Driaviaty,
Postawy and Narocz. It was at the lat
ter point that 920 fallen Russians were
counted after the attack hal recoiled.
The Russians had made great prepara
tions for their drive, nearly every detail
of which was reported to the German
staff by scouting aeroplanes and Zeppe
lins. The Germans were enabled to con
centrate at the threatened points and
met the Russians nith a furious fire.
Bravelv the Czars soldiers returned to
the attack time and again, but each time
were mowed down by massed machine
gun and artillery fre.
German artillery activity on the Riga
front is reported in the Petrograd com
muniation, which says:
"Oln the Riga front the enemy directed
a lively artillery fire against Ikskull
bridgehead and to the south.
"In the region of Jacobstadt there was
an artillery duel in the northern sectors.
-Toward Videza our artillery bom
barded the German trenches. German
attempts to assume the offensive near
ledziani and south of Lverecz were re
pulsed."
REPORT HOSPITAL SHIP
SUNK BY SUBMARINE
Vienna Declares Elektra Stranded
After Being Torpedoed-Two
Nurses Severely Wounded.
Spa,.l Cable to 'he Washington Herald.
Berlin. March 13.-The semiofficial Trans
ocean News Bureau gives out the follow
Ing:
"Vienna reports state that the hospital
shiD Elektra. of the Austro-Hungarian
Red Cross. bound from the North Adriatic
to Southern Dalmatia, was torpedoed yes
terdaf hy an enemy submarine.
"Ie steamer was stranded. One sailor
was drowned and two Red Cross nurses
were severely wounded.
"The Elektra was unknown to the
enemy as a hospital shIp and was pro
vilded with the prescribed visible marks."
Sparrow, Too, Not Raveni.
Vulparaiso. Ind.. March 19.--When
Frank Tratebas. of Chesterton, was
brought to jail here on the charge of
intoxication he had not a cent In hIs
pocket. He longed for the open aIr so he
climbed to the latticed window of the
jaiL. Right in front of him was a spar
row's nest. From the nest stuck the cor
ner of a bill with the dollar mark show.
lng.
Nusic Over 14e.e Cures.
Chicago, March 13-George 3. Boelt.
a manuacturer who is recovering fram
a street car accideat at a houpital, is
beinig given a "musilc cure" Every alght
be Is entertained by a cabaret periprm
anice to which he listens Over the tele
nhonna
Miss Wilson Ai
Boss," in Fon
President's Daughter, Speakin
ing, Declares Issue Lies I
tion and People
"Who is boss.-the people or their rep
resentatives' This question was put by
Miss Margaret Wilson. daugther of
President Wilson referring to the com
mnunity forum disput,. at a gathering of
the Grover Cleveland School Forum in
the Public Library yesterday afternoon.
The contention over the use of school
buildings for forum gatherings is between
the Board or Education and the people of
the District, rather than between the
Board of Education and the District
Cormnissloners, she said. Miss Wilson
maintained that the people should meet
in the schools when they wished-that
they are the bossei of their public
actions. and not the school board.
The Board of Education has declined
to allow the use of the public schools
for community gatherings, and a bill in
troduced in the llouse by Representative
FRENCH NOW
ON OFFENSIVE
'Strong Attacks Are Launched
Against Germans to North
of Verdun.
540,000 MEN IN ASSAULT
IN DEAD MAN HILL SECTOR
Teutons Declare Offensive "Stopped
in Initial Stages"-Four French
Aeroplanes Shot Down.
SCeal Cable to The Washinstm emid.
London, March 19.-The French re
newed their offensive north of Verdun,
directing strong attacks against the po
sitions held by the Germans In the see
tor of Dead Man 11111. The Berlin army
headquarters report, while admitting
that the initiative has passed into the
hands of the defenders, 911160 that all
their attacks were "stopped in their
initial stages."
It is in this fighting that no less than
twenty-seven French divisions. 540,00
men. are said by the Germans to be en
gaged. The midnight French communi
cation reports a general slackening of
the artillery fire in this region later in
the day and states that the Germans at
tempted no attacks.
On the opposite bank of the Meuse
spirited fighting for minor positions is
mentioned in the German statement, the
battle still being in progress at the
moment of writing. Later Paris reports
tell of attacks by the Germans on the
Vaux-Damloup front, which were re
pulsed by the French barrier fire.
A swift German attack in the Vermelles
region has resulted in a loss of some
ground by the British, according to the
Berlin report. Strong artillery fire and
fie mine explosions destroyed trenches
captured by tho British on March 2,
all the occupants, exeept thirty, who were
taken prisoners, being buried in the
wrecked positions.
During the last twenty-four hours air
men have been extremely active over the
entire front.
Four French machines have been shot
down, according to the Berlin report.
German aeroplanes also were brought
to the ground. Several successful raids
on German rail heads and concentration
points are reported.
Morgan Returns
But Keeps Mum
Financier Closely Guarded on
Ship and on Pier by
Detectives.
SPtcial to The Washinaton Heraid.
New York, March i9.-J. Pierpont
Morgan arrived here today from his
mission to England, on the American
liner Philadelphia. He was accompanied
by his wife. His son. Junius Spencer
Morgan, was at the pier to meet them.
Unusual precautions were taken to safe
guard the financier. Some time after
the ship had docked he and his party
were escorted through the ship's pantry
to the steerage quarters, by officials of
the line. They then left the ship by way
of the steeage gangway to the lower decit
of the pier, which is crowded with wait
Ing cargo. The Morgan automobile had
been drawn up alongside the gangway.
The financier and his party entered the
waiting machine and were then driven
off.
While the ship was proceeding from
quarantine to her dock. Mr. Morgan was
guarded by plainclothes men. To the
newspaper men, however, he said he
could not discuss the nature of his
mission to England..
Thieves Stole House.
Deer Park. Wis., March 19.-Herman
Larson pusrchased a, farm in the Vicinity
of iqderic in Polk County ad last sum
mee built a house there and made prep
aration. te move on the preperty, which
he had bessnrenting to neighbors, The
other da he went up to Frederic ahead
of bis faminy expecting to put thing, in
readiness, when he found that the h.4e
had ben. c.a-ae ..a by, ter
ks 'Who Is
im Controversy
g at Cleveland School Gathet
3etween Board of Educa
of the District.
Johnson, of Kentucky. directs that tcn
of these buildings in the District may
be used for public forum meetings.
Would Correct Mismaderstandlus.
"Two weeks ago I presented to the
Grover Cleveland School Forum the main
features of the Johnson measure. said
Miss Wilson. "I wish now to emphasire
three points in the bill which have been
misunderstood.
"The first of these is the fact that
there Is no intention in the bill of taking
power from the School Board and putting
It in the hands of the Commissioners.
'The issue is not between the Board
of Education 'and the Commissioners; it
is between the Board of Iducation and
the people. tnder th. present law, the
school board can close the school builld
INTISI-ED ON PAGE TUR1lEE.
SHIPS' SINKING
TO BE PROBED
U. S. Will Inquire Regarding
Destruction of Palembang
and Tubantia.
EXPERTS SAY MINES LOOK
LIKE TORPEDOES IN WATER
Same Investigation as Was Followed
in Persia Case May Rule in
This Instance.
The sinkinr of the Dutch steamer
Palembang, following closely upon de
struction of the Tubantla. has caused the
State Department to decide upon a com
prehensive investigation to determine
whether the vessels were sunk by mines
or by submarines.
It In understood at the State Depart
ment that Germany rests upon tier pub
lished orders that submarines shall not at
tack liners. and leaves the burden of
proof of violations of those orders on
England and neutral nations whose %es
sels may suffer.
The proposed inquiry hy the United
States will attempt not only to establish
the cause of the destruction of the vessels.
but If it should be determined that they
were sunk hr mines. to discover which of
the belligerents planted the mines. The
United States already has protested
against the laying of mines oA the high
seas.
It was said that the investigation Is
necessitated by the claim of the United
Sttes that Americans have the right to
travel the seas on fll merchant vessels.
The puNy to be followed. it was said. is
that pursued in the case of the Persia.
Both Germany and . Austria disclaimed
responsibility for sinking the Persia. The
United States has not yet completed Its
investigation of the destruction of the
Persia. .
The Tubantia and Persia cases are
nearly parallel. In both Instances it was
declared that the wake of a torpedo was
seen. Naval experts here say a sub
merged mine, acted upon by a strong cur
rent, would present the appearance of a
moving togpedo.
Bethlehem Steel
Will Pay 112%
Annual Report to Show Earn
ings of $17,762,812.61
for 1915.
Special to 'lhe Washington Hml.
New York, March 19.-The annual re
port of the Bethlehem Steel Company, to
be made public tomorrow, shows a net
income for 1915 of $17,742.81261, as against
$5.i90,020.18 In 1914. This is equal, after
preferred dividends have been paid,,to
112 per cent on the common stock as
against 33 per cent in 1914.
The company had on hand December X1,
1915. orders amounting t $175,M2,8S5.19, as
against $46,513S.96 in the same date of
the '>revious year. The report states that
the various plants, with one exception,
are running at full capacity. The armor
plate department is the exception,
President Schwab points out that the
government's bili to build an armor plant
at a cost of $1l,000,000 will virtually de
stroy the value of existing armor plants,
Wedding Square. Debt.
Denver, March 19.-When pretty 17
year-old Martina May House was married
to Norman Burns, an employe of the Ad
ams Hotel, by Judge Flor Ashbaugh in
the Juvenile Court, young Burns, four
years older tha~n the bride. was able to
call square a debt which John F. House,
the bride's father, had owed him for
more than a year.
Dog Buried With Mistress.
Marietta, Ohiq, Maerh 19.--Gratifying a
wish which Mrs. Mary Frank H'art had
often expressed before her death, and
wiitch is said to have been embodied In
her will. Trizie, pet fox terrier of Mr.
Hart, whose tusera- was held recently,
was chloreegd and burled in t1 ans
grave with her sis~tress,
Bandits Shot Horse
From Under
Vii. PitANK THOMPKI,.
Miji. liank Thompkins. of the Thir
tpentl tilled States Caalry, etattioned
at Columbus. N. Mex., Was i, Comlnd
or the firt detach-nenit of troops senl'
intto Mexiii in 'iinsui of Villa inwni
,i-dtely aftr 1h ntJa nil his band!
ni murderers rail pillaged the town and
killei rixteen Amereinul i eold blood.
Maj. TIonpkins. horse waus shot from
onder hin. antil bl hat was knocked
from is head I b a Villieta bullet.
21 INJURED IN
TRAIN CRASH
Coaches from Washington De
railed in Accident at
Jamestown, N. C.
ALEXANDRIA MAN AMONG
THE LIST OF INJURED
Freight Sideswipes Passenger Cars
Near Station-Cause of Accident
Not Learned.
More than a score of persons were In
jured when a box car on Southern Rail=
way frei;:ht train No. -1. Jumped the
track at Jamestown; N. C., at i o'cinck
last night and sideswll-l passenger
train No. 43, which left Washington at
9 o'cock yesterday mor:inc for Char
lotte. Three passenger coaches were de
railed.
The accident occu;rrel a few hundred
feet from the station, as the passenger
train was slowing upi to make a stop.
Th, freight was traveling at a fair rate
of speed. coining nit Ii. Ofilals of the
road stated that had b)oth trains ;cen
travcling at a rapid ra:e several fatali
tics probably would hai t resulted.
list of injured
The injured are:
Miss Carl~oiilina liggar, Thomnisille. N.
C., compound fracture of the left leg.
Miss Mary t;reen. Thomasville. N. C..
severely cut about the head and face.
Ig fractured.
A. li. l-ecter, Chiarlotte. N. C.. cut
about head.
P. i. Carroll, Oak Ill1, N. C., left leg
fractured.
Mrs. Frank Norris. Spencer, N. C., head
and knee injured.
Mrs. Max Iliatt, High Point. N. C., left
leg fractured.
Miss Mae Cridlebough, High Point, N.
C., Injured about the face.
13. J. Wisener, Winston-Salem, N. C..
left leg severely bruised.
J. J. Hooker, Dillsboro, N. C., cut on
chin.
J. D. Fauntleroy, Alexandria. Va., cut
on hand.
h I.. Stout, Greensboro, N. C., left leg
fractured.
J. ). Onhundrg, Greensboro, N. C., face
bruised.
L, o. Stough, Greensboro, N. C., back
wrenched.
Mrs. W. 0. Robinson, Spencer, N. C.,
left arm cut and bruised.
James Milner, Greensboro, N. C., cut on
hand.
C. Z. Noell. Greensboro, N. C., cut on
hand.
John Harvey, Lexingto. N. C.. cut on
face.
The colored injured were:
-E-ugene McCoy, Waynesville, N. C., *Cut
on left ear..
Robert Mc~uire, Lexington, N. C., pos
-sible Internal Injuries.
Henry Savage, Unlon Hill, Ga., cut on
chin.
Ed. Barrett, Carthage, N. C., back and
knee wrenched.
Examination of the tracks failed to
show that there was any) spreading of the
rails or defective rail, according to the
information telegraphed to omiclala of
the company In this city.
Mines Gold ini Chicken Run,
Bandon, Oreg., Mgrch 19.-Charie-_
Thompson is mining gold in the back
yard of his home in South Bandon, fol
lowing the finding of three gol nugget.
In the craw of - a chicken he cleaned
for the farnihy's dinner. The largeet of
the three naggets lia about the alse of
the head of a hatpln, and search of the
yard in which the chilcltens had been
feeding unaovered two more nearly a
AergQ,
AMERICM
OUT BY
FLIGHI
TEXANS PLEAD
FOR U. S. GUARD,
FEARING RAID
Villistas Reported Swooping
Down on Presidio, Threat
ening Massacre.
SCOTT WARNS FUNSTON
War Department Officials Expect
Fighting at Any Moment as Troops
Close in on Villa.
Frantie appeal was made to the War
Depa r tm lt '. leriday b. he p pepeo
Presidio, Tex. fur ad i t na troops to
protect. therm fron a threatened Villista
raid a rose t!, 1-rdr at that point. Fet.p
resentative Wilhamiii it. Sm:th, of Texas,
ailled on "IaJ. 1G n. 1u;;h L. keott, chief
of staft of the army. who is acting Ffe
retary of war mn the absence of Sec
retary Baker, and l-id b fore him a tele
gr I igalr by the residents of the
town 1.
The telegram statei that Iarranza
scouts comin into the Mexican town of
141ilnaga. opposite Presidio. hav, rport (d
a force of 17, Villistas eighty miles tc
the south, who were burning ranches and
tuminitting all kinds of depredations.
Lead,-rs of the band, so the scouts re
port, are boating of their ntention to
"wIpe out the gringoes' at "residio and
give the residents of that town a tast
of what happenid ten days g;o at
Columbus. N. Mex.
The band is believed to -- operating
lndependentlv of the main Vilhsta force.
The handits. the tet'gram states. are con
serving their supt Iy of ammniu-ion on
the ground that they want to ue ther
bullets on the people of Fren idio.
Scott Wires Appeal to Feuaton
Gen. Scott at one- wired the cont nts
of the telecram to Maj. Gen. Vunston at
San Antonio. Tex., explaining to PRep
resentative Smith that the disposition of
tiw forces alonz the bord-r is entir-ly .n
tien. Funton's haids. The telegram iEt
forth that the residents had appealed to
the Anerican onmandcr of the district
ahlh in(ludes Presidio. but had -en
told by hit that no more troops could
be spard.
Pris iaT.es fiom the bordei yee
terday afleinoon statel that (;en. Fun
sten had alb-aly videied practically all
the troops 5 tpyin;; the Big Itend ils
trict, including Presidio and Columbus.
The I'arianza garrilson at Cijinaga is
email and brily equil"ped . It Is com
nanded by "I"n. "oji'
WN it h1 al reports fromt the border indi
rating that P rins "flyiig sqladron."
under 'ol. 1)Dd. is close on the heels of
Villa. ofcialF here exiet at any time to
hear of actual fighting. In the mean
time they arc prepared to hear of raids
et Isolated pointstalong the border by
Villa s. ipathizers in an effort to pre
%ent reinforcements from being sent to
Pershing's support.
French Torpedo
Boat Goes Down
Three Officers and 44 of Ren
audin's Crew Missing After
Submarine Attack.
Special Cable ta The Washingtn Hirti.
Paris, March 19.-The French torpedo
boat Renaudin, was sunk yesterday morn
ing in the Adriatic by a submarine, ac
cording to offial antiouncement by the
admiralty tonight.
Three officers, including the commander
and his second in command. as well as
forty-four of the crew are missing.
Two officers and thirty-four of the
crew were removed by a French torpedo
boat which was accompanying the Renau
din.
AEOPLANES FIGHT WARSHIPS.
Geriaam Fliers P'ail In Attack on
Raseaa Ships.
Petrograd. March 19.--A battle between
Russian warships and enemy aeroplanes.
in which the warships eacaped bombs
hurled down upon them. Is reported by
the ministry of marine tonight.
The fight took place In the Black Sea.
Russian torpedo boats had just sent to
the bottom a vessel carrying benzine
when they were attacked by an air squad
ron. The fliers, circling over the torpedo
boat flotilla. dropped eight bombs. whichi
struck the water. M~eanwhile the d~e
stroyers took aboard the crew of the
slaking oil ship and rapidly siteamned
away.
-Divorce After 39 Years.
Norr-istown, Pa.. March 19-A fter
thirt.-nine years of married life. Charles
D. Ricker, a Philadelphia stock broker,
who lives here. has won a dilvorce fromt
Lailaa F. Riek.r
COLONISTS WIPED
VILLISTAS DURING
TO SIERRA MADRE
NUMBER OF KILLED
DELETED BY CENSOR
Report of Massacres Reaches Columbus by
Wireless from Interior of Mexico-Pacheco
and Chuichupa Believed Places Hit.
LITTLE IS KNOWN OF COLONISTS
Raider Reported to Have Abandoned Thirty Wounckd at
El Valle-Declared to Have Kidnapped
Ten Women.
lN 11. H. STANSBURY.
Spectal to The t sahingte. Iereld.
El Paso, March 19.-Gen. Per-hing's main coauvn w a -ewlrted
late this afterruon a, nN ing south iy west of A-ncciirim. al t1n the diY
bed of the Rio Janu-. lIe is appr(ximately ]( I mdc- h the
Iorder.
The report came I wi tr , Clmnibus and i age-l rs su
are that several Amerium >cttilemnl t in the fo idlb f th) -rra
Madre Monntains ha\ c been totallx u iped out h\ \ inla 'at - .nce
this is the direction taken b \illa after the C' h:mbu- r, ,r be
lieved to be re-ponsible for the Ima-sacre
CENSOR WITHHOLDS DETAILS.
The number of persons killed and the circunlta, . mc a
cres are being withheld by the censor. The col-n- - ana, ed acmsnt
designated, but since Colonia Duhian and .\lrde theI\%w. lead
colonies were not mole-ted. it is helicve Xi\ rai e ' cc and
Chuichupa.
Thcse VerC iircctly on the line of rctreat f-me*.\cd by the bandit.
\ erN little is known here f the people whN Il ned ir tihese ett;cmient
They moved roto the M,'iatcd district years ago a-d sebl-ri came i
the bor(ier.
VILLA REPORTED AT HERNANDEZ RANCH.
\ ila. accirding to Gen. Pershing. wa- at 1ie ro b of Canide~c,
llcrnandez two days ag
The Hernandez ranch I- nca- <an Pedr.. :e I r li
watering places in Central Chilahna 'his tit, - \%h i '( i ri
received Ihcre from lexican ur oni1 Frida- that \ .ia- I
a railroad bridge at 'an Pedrr The last namne 1 --r - ii
miles north of Casa Grande,- Yc-iterv a it i- kn '
full! fortv mile- further oitlh.
INFANTRYMEN GIVEN HORSES.
\! added frI.mlecnt of the Ins from Per-hig e 1
<letachi:2ert frmom 1h Sixtcenth hInt' l hben iirn-ibe
anid wNa- 1o ,ccopan ing the k;\!
\ ilia was located near llabrirra i la\ and wam ,ai -
fIor a lake by that name. w\hich I- Ch onily water s 1:
anound. e Iceis said to hac ahand ned thirt\ woiued I
where hc w-as placed in the-c dipatches esterda.
AlIonZ tle road which the hatim, m- oving. tle \mex an
mienti run into millions. M1uch apprehension i, felt here that
destroy all .f this propert.
NO CARRANZA TROOPS PURSUING.
The Madera Cmipan y. owned b\ American and Eigh- .ma
control a number of mills. terminal-. company house- .:i I t
1.nder normal working conditions, more than 3.000 men e, m1 n ,e,
The plant is situated just forty miles south of Casas Graii
There are said to be no Carranza troops in pursuit K : \ a:'
his mien.
The Mexican authorities report fighting with a ta-n ot f the
Villa army in the Torreon district at Coyte,-Canyon Chirutes. A vic
tory is claimed bNy the Carranzistas, who say a large number of \llista.
were killed.
TEN WOMEN DECLARED KIDNAPPED.
In retreating the Villistas are declared to have kidnappe! ten
women, the wives and daughters of prominent Mexican-.
The demand of the United States military authoriti ,u;i.m Irt
Chief Carranza for permission to take over the Mexican Northwtestern
iand National Railway lines has developed a situation extremelv acute
here.
Gen. Pershing is said to have sent a wireless to Funston that the
control of the roads leading out of El Paso is imperative to the stic
cess of the expedition.
TOO FAR r:R MOmm S.
Col. Dodd, with the Seventh and Tenth Cavalry, already'has pushed
so far south it will be almost impossible to'get supplies to him by motor
truck. The paclz mules with the expedition are being employed to carry
mountain artillerv.
Trhe first request to use the railroads is said to have been fiathx
refused by Carranza, notwithstanding the optimistic reports from
Washington Saturday night. The public was permitted to know noth
ing of the negotiations until the second request was made. This was
more of a demand and is now before the head of the de facto gov
ernment.
The Mexican officials in Juarez are as silent on the subject as the
granite nmonunment erected some years ago in memory of patriots for
whom the town is named.
Ei Paeo New Aettre Base. stood the ratiroad,, ha'e agreed tno tel
1n the meantime, rnattie preparatoim ons 't~OS sso ~Oe.~ ie
have begun to make El Paso the borderCW~j
baAt Instead of Columnbus. Troop trains h otD.cmadr'slm
and *.uppiies were otepped here today. A tlC W heeprshcflit
squadron of the Twelfth Cavalry deasg S- hiels I~i lem
nated to go in the Pershing expedition leanutaen e.
is amnong the latest arrivais. fheCersad
A corps of clerks, under smembers of Gem. "T.1otwetn cud
Belt's staff. hive worked all day oomph-jtroso Y*e vr
ing a lit of the avaihble rshlroed seen o heewek.
ha tis S~lof te 0in~3er L ico CO!UB th xps th clld t b
asitnelatngtHerfsst
