S$tm.
THE WEATHER. .FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to
IT SHINES FOP ALL
warmer; mode
Highest temperatur
Detailed weather, niaJ
Ffwo
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 202.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, MARCH- 20, 1916. Copriohl,mt,bV thr Suit Prlnttng wt,l lublt,,htp Ablation.
PRICE
CENTS.
40 AEROPLANES
IN GREAT FIGHT;
SEVEN SMASHED
Knur I'renrli, Three Ger
ti i st it Machines Wrought
Down in Alsace.
IMMM.KD IX DL'KL,
TWO (HASH TO KAKTHl
Ttoinl Dropped on Metz, I
Mullinie. Chatcau-Sa-lins
ninl Dijon.
... .. (tfce litiHc!t to Tnr Stv.
Ov-ts. March 19. A ralil by a French
ifro.il.i H squadron comprising twenty-
vrc n a.-huicit on upper Alsace, last
jv ii-nltcil In ono of tho gmtlest
. l .titles f.wglit In the war. The
,n,.. i' ' Herman machines which lunU
i in- engagement Is not announced,
, ii. two squadrons ans'ar to have
; .. i.i i' evenly matched. Four
t x iter ..planes .Hid three Herman
:n i-i iif- wu ' driven to earth. Two of
.. '.tt"i:iM machines ffll In flames.
T" n.d which led to the battle wan
il i if i .iLMliitt Muclhauseri (Mulhouse)
nd lint-helm, on tin- edge of the Hart
V. .1.1, I . i tiie east of Muclluvuseri.
i cti'if seventy-two shells were
it'',!',!-!! on the Muelhausen freight eta
1..HI .itul 111'1 aviation camp at Hulls
h m
T'v ifrm.ui -quadron rosit- to drive off
i . ii. nlli.g li t-iKli and gave battle at
if iinr of the mot driimalli' Inol
t,. i" Ihe engagement wai a due" he
me "'I i Trench and n Herman naichlne,
'i' i . suited In each of the two ma
il i i -mi: nililk-il liy the bullets of the
el'ier'e machine gun. Both were com
I -i a descend. Three other French
am,tln i. were so seriously damaged
i ii t' i were forced to land In liernmn
rr 'or
TM ofticl.il announcement of the
utrUl battle given out to-day tn Iterlln
nv- thai the '-oupants of nil four
rriiii machines which descended wero
owl The Herman statement says that
nm p.rsons wero killed and thirteen
trjurt'd at Muelhausen by the bombs
ti-oj.pf.! by the Krench machines ami
tt.it ti - soldier was killed at Habshelm.
Another raid of smaller proportions
as made by the French about the taiiie
tme on Met. Chateau-Sallns, to the
(-..'jthva-t of Metx. and Dleuze, cast of
Oileiu-Sallus. The targets In thin
raid. In which live double motored aero
S'ns took part, were the balloon sta
ton dt Mftz, the ammunition depots
ttar Ch.iteau-Sallns and tho aerolrome
I Duuze. Twenty large shelU were
imppcd on the tatinn at Metz and ten
fire were divided between the other two
(tiJiVtlM...
Tht liomliM of the ruldern Injured
tine eitllans at Mctz, according to
Ui (ierman official statement.
'teriiiniK .Mnke Hnld.
fitrnidii aviators made two raids yes
1'nl.i on FiriM'li railway work.", one
'. i' "'lermont-Verdun line and the
- 1 (! the Hue from i:plnal to 8oul,
j-'I jImi liombardetl ihe region to the
Midi of liljon. about twenty miles west
( V. ml
A litr n.iu aeroplane recotinoltrlnir In
the VfMiis icelun was brought down
) a IV. i, machine near Montzevllle,
i c iT .n machine landliiR within the
" ' This wan announced In
' .i"t- -u toinmunliiue.
T nit k orriclal communique tells
' " iiutm; down of another Herman
Adjt N,turre. making the
hlne biought down by that
ivl.l .r
A Ibi' s.i reconnaissance squadron
nf . Ad by a Herman squadron.
On. f it (ierman niaihlries was dam
.'fi rJ forced to descend and the
c: .t-r mre driven off, the British aero
I'ar.ts .rnpietlng their scouting work
M ritjrnliiK safely to the British
.i;
T .
rrj.
'ii
mmunlipif said, re 1
i ill CO
al operations
tr.lun region one of our
'r i.rs. binis,nt down a (ierman
ti-i ' ii landed within our
l.r."- i.e.ir Montzevllle.
I' our douole motor aeroplane
t i' i .i 'he Herman balloon station
" V " ' ..iiimuultlon depots near
r 'i , is and the aerodrome at
f) jzi T r'- shells of large callbro
irit.p. d during the course of this
"-1 ot i.i which twenty fell on
t'i -.i' in at Metz.
(it., .f ,.ij. groups of bombing aero.
jlat.es ii' iii-.d of twenty-three ma
c". '! i' e.pei) seventy-two shells on
tre v ii lamp at Habhelm (east
' Mn T!.e and the freight station
it M ill ni-e Cnetny aeroplanes pur
m'ng . imen engage! them In an
r j ii t, ,u ,nc wiilch one French
f.' h ri ,,t i one c,erim.n machine
"r fi' i, to descend by their re
M.r .i ' t .i h He gun 11 " Two other
r;e'in n 'iriii.fM ffii in flnmes, and
th-.p . ,.v ,v,.r nrlous' damaged
"' i ) to 'es-cnd In enemy ter-
fl'O'V
T ' ' i--M niirnunlque adds this:
bi,' Nivure brought down his
" t- ii r;,. man aeroplane In the re
S' 'ii ' Inn The enemy machine
hi. l ' mr lines.
I'oiir I'reneli terna'Down.
Hie i it rni.m report on aerial opera
H'SI ( .IW
Jte -r." ri',i ring and attacking ac
Ivli- b) .. aviators on both sides
i veiv Our aviators attacked
f.llw.1- works on the ClermontVer
J'J'i line on the Kplnal-Lure-Vesoul
hti- Jinl dijih of DIJori.
Thr" HlllaiiK were Injured at
I'i hi boiiibs thrown by enemy
kvlator
Of r. i-'reiich Hquudron attacking
MtiMluiisen (Mulhouse) and Hab
'" f'""' aeroplaneM were brought
hi nu aerial battle- In the vl
'inty of Muelhausen. The occupants
?". demi, At Muelliauten seven In
'isilll.1
"its wen, killed and thirteen In-
Jurnt.
ai nubshelm a soldier waa
kllM
"'I. llrlng llo.vn liermaii Aer.
fpfinl r,l,lt Uttpalch lo Tnr 8is.
jM..x March ". The ItotUrdam
Jrr-'lJoiHlent of the OiHIy Jfoll says
"t (ierman biplane which flew ovr
k. i, frontltr wh brought down
".till soldiers. It landed at Watar-
. ueir'im, (jUBt over th frortUr,
M)-iw miles northwest of Uktwt).
I
"THE Kentish coast of EiiBlund,
showing the towns attacked
by the German seaplanes in their
latest raid.
I FRANCE
FOUR AEROS RAID
ENGLAND; ONE LOST
,.,
traverse
German Seaplanes
Coast From Dover to
Margate.
0 KILLED; :il WOI NDKD
Special Cnblf Imm-oA to Tut. mv.
LonpoV, March 19, Nine persons
were killed and thirty-one Injured to
day by bombs dropped by four (iennaii
seaplanes which raided the roan from
Dover to Margate.
One of the raiding machines was
i.. .i i.- . .
uiwuKill iiuitll, lilt' IIISI Ul me ne 1 '
of Herman planes to suffer this fate.
It was forced to descend Into the sea,
after having been pursued thirty miles
from shore and engaged for fifteen min
utes by a Itrltlsh aviator In a one
cated aeroplane. The oliserver of the
Herman machine was kilted.
The four planes drojiped ultosether
4ns bomb.
The omial statement said:
Four Herman seaplanes bombarded
east Kent to-duy The llrst pair ap
peared over Dover, flying at a height
of between 5,0o to 6.000 feet. Ono
machine dropped six bombs on the
harbor and then went northwest,
throwing bombs on the town. The
other, after passing over Dover, ap
peared over Deal and dropped several
bombs.
A second pair bombarded Hams
gate. One w'tnt west and the other
north, pursue. i by n llrltlsh aeroplane.
One machine dropped bombs on Mar
fate. A second appeared over West
Kate, where our aeroplanes pursued
It. No bombs were dropped.
The casualties so far arc nine
killed ami thirty-one Injured. As far
as can be ascertained 41 bombs weru
dropped. One bomb fell on the Ca-
Haitian hospital at Itmnsgate, causing
damage but no casualties. Material
damage was done to several houses
Flight Commander Hone, in a single I
seated aeroplane, pursued one of the I
raiding aeroplanes for thlity mlbs '
over the sea, where after an action I
lasting a quarter of an hour the !
raider was forced to descend. The 1
observer was killed. .
The coast sector visited by the raid
ers stretches about twenty miles fiom
Dover northward to Margate. Itnmhs
wero dropped tlrst upon Dover hat bor,
then on the town, whereupon the raiders, 1
travelling in two pairs, bombarded Deal,
nine miles. Hamsgute. sixteen miles, find
Margate, nineteen miles noith of the
iirmsn unannci port, one or the ma
chines visiting We.ngjte, a lew miles
west of Margate, nut dioppliig no bombs
All of he places inidt l nru popul.n
Kngllsh watering places in time of peace.
To-day's raid affected the .nunllest
ratlins bomhardtd by Herman planes or
Zeppelins since the war began
Hue bomb fell upon the Canadian lios.
P-tuI at Kamsgate. causing damage, bu;
no casualties. 'ihe statement admits
that material damage was done by the
raiders at several places, but does not
-peak of military damage. The absence. '
however, of the assertion that no such
damage was done, a statement whl.'h '
has marked all previous official bulletins,
Is taken to Indicate that the raiders may
have had some success In this respect.
Oriihanaice lilt by llomli.
Despatches from the Kentish mast
towns received here to-night give somo
details of the raid. One of a dozen of
bombs dropped on the town of Dover
hit an orphanage and did much damage.
An uttendsnt was hurt. All of the chil
dren sought refuge In the basement arid
escaped Injury.
Another bull. Hug was wrecked, much
glass being shattered, Many Iminbs fell
Into the streets and gardens. The uuin-
i ber of deaths In Dover were four or
live. British airmen ancended ipilekly
and sharp firing followed. One rubier
1 In hurrying away dropped four bomb.i
Into the sea.
The only dfath at Deal was that of
, a chicken. it much damage was done
. to residences. An automoblllst left Ills
car to take shelter and had hardly (led
when a bomb dropped on Its seat.
Ten bombs were dropped on Hams
gate. The chief damagV hero wus done
to a number of workmen's cottages,
which were wrecked. Most of the vic
tims were children going to Sunday
school. Kour of them were killed, among ,
them a brother and sister, aged 4 and 8
respectively. Heveral were wounded. I
All bombs thrown by the raiders wero
explosive. No tires resulted from the
raid, however. A bomb dropped on Mar-1
gate struck a residence, damuglng It i
slightly. No one was Injured.
BRITISH, TOO, ACTIVE.
Bring Down Trio Uerman Aero
laaea ana I.oae .None.
Special Cabtt Pf patch to Tne Sc.v.
iak'hiu. March 19. British 'head
Quarters In Franco sends the following
report on aerial activity on the British
front :
Hostile aeroplanes were active and
thr were many combats. A hostllo
machine was brought down In the vi
cinity of Hadlnghem.
One of our reconnausance machines
waa heavily engaged, but drove off all
attacks and brought down one hostile
machlna In a damage) condition. All
our machines returned safely, having
iaj;itTf tfceU mllei
.'..A.h .gfV 'j-'jbMS'i-.e, ,t'..A teiklolfgOl'l-riti t.,.nVi,t."'.,iifc-A.t.Jfi..ia"i-----.UV i. l.v ,'!.'('. t-'i-t,, o i . : . i .- . - . . .- - - ' J
ATTACKS ON VERDUN
FRONT LOSING VIGOR
(ItTinaiis Hullod by Curtain of
Fire in Attempt to llcach
Vaux Mne.
SIIKLLINU INTKKMITTKNT
Cniiliiiiit's on Hotli Sides, but
With .Much Less
Intensity.
fci'it Ca'.'t iittpqfth in Tnr. ars.
T'Hts, March IP. Attacks by the
flermaiiH jeslerday on the Vaux-Dain-' Htorv tnp ,a(,t y,,.,r (m( u be re- President Theodore P. Shouts to ex
loup front, north of Verdun, were con- membered 111 one of the romances of 'liitlriiiim Wlllcox of the Public Service
tinned far Into the night without sue- ftitl uttt rlnl history, reported esterday ' t'oinniNfloii. which recited the terms of
cos, The assaulting columns wore that Its total net earnings for were a tentative proposal to build the sub-
brought up short by the FTench tire our-j .j4 Sjji0S 2j iM tinrT deducting sii- 'wi's with Interbornugh money, would
tain In eer ose n-id were unabln to iroxlmutly H,39l,O0 for ordinary and Probably develop Into one of the most
reach the French lines. The Herman at-1 extraordinary repairs and maintenance. , Important features of hi- committee's
tt aipts to cover Hie tlreswept r.ono be- Tl0 tl.rP8t ,ie notes and bonds of MnMvtlgatlon. The committee Intends to
fore the French positions were given tip I ..,.,..., .,,.,, ,i ,,. .. proe too. sabl Its chairman, that other
and throughout the rest of last night and
to-day the Hermans undertook no fur
ther Infantry action la the Verdun
region. An Intermittent bombardment
on this front was continued through the
night. This decreased appreciably In
inteusll to-day.
Tin- nn.ii stage of the battle of Vor-
.1 . ... . . .. I
..mi ..i'i".i.-t to nave neeu reacneii nvo
: daMi ago. Since that time there baa
I beft no dcelslNe tlghtlng; Iho few (icr- dctlucted there remains tit... Ut.-J.i'...l,
i man infantry attacks made since havo,or "''out 112.1 per cent, on the tl,
j In n case had any u ress. The attacks OOS.UO1 ronimon stock.
I of estenla.f wero niatle In so small force
that thfj had not even a chanco of r.lep Ttttnl 1 T.-!I1S.1S.
huccw-s. I 'T,K. (1ul Hllll,ullt f nl.is lllletl In
, , . 19U. the fiscal er of th iporatlon
MiellliiK l.o.es MBr. H11( 1h ,,. ..ah.n.h.r yearIs not
Km-ii the artillery bombardment, given, but the books of the concern sm
whltb h;ia bei'ii on so tremendous a to le bulging with orders from the Allies,
i scale since the beginning of the Herman The-announcement is made that at the
I attempt on the fortress has now lost close of the ear there were 'in the bonks
I much of Its vigor and Intensity, al- of the company onl-rs amounting to
, though It continues on both sides. , $175,431'. W5, IS. .is compared with $16.-
Haslng their deductions on the actlv-
Ity of the past few days, most of the
Frenc?! military critics now exnreji. ili
,,l,iln,i ,1,.,, ,1 , u
...... ..i,ii.iin ii.i. nnuii
untied tlielr attempt to take Verdun.
There was unlet generally on the
Fiemii front last night. The French
artillery was acflve to-day to the north
of Ithelms. In the region of Vllle-aux-liois.
and at Varvlnay, north of St.
Mlhlel.
annonnde l.rt Violent.
The official commun!ue' Issued by the
French War Office to-night says:
North of Ithelms our artillery ex
ecuted a destructive tire against the
Miemy trenches at Neuville. and the
Hodat farm. There wan marked ac
tivity on the part of our batteries In
the region of Villeaux-ltols.
In the region north of Verdun the
bombardment decreaed appreciably
In Intensity In the course, of the day.
The enemy made no attempt to attack.
North of St. Mlhlel our heavy artil
lery cannonaded enemy provision de
pots at Varvlnay.
There Is nothing to report on the
rest of the front.
ttni-l. nt Vaux HeimUed.
The afternison communique was
as
follows .
Mist of the Meuse, after a violent
bmnbanlmeut. Ihe enemy direct! a
somewhat eplrlled attack against the
Vaux-D.nnloup front yesterday after
noon. He was driven back by our
curtain of (Ire. his attack falling com
pletely During the night there was
no action on the part of the enemy
Infantry.
The activity of t,he artillery has been
interm'ttent In all sectors In the re
gion of Verdun On the front as a
whole the night was calm.
. -.,, . . ,
ATTACK DEAD MAN HILL. 1
.
nerlln iinonii. es Fnllnre nf '
French to H.-aell Height.
sir. t-tt fphh fi?Afi (. In Tun S.-x
IPaii is, vi i London. Mariii I!'. - The
olllcial statement Issued to-day by Her
man niinv lienil.iuaiiers tells of at
temp't.l itt.icks by tin- French against
l.o .Mm: Iloiitn i i Dead .Man HUD, nn
tlie left I. il'l. nf toe Jlellse The llttaiks
were cl.. cl.eil li.v Herman lire. Fighting
lor point.- l.ttweeii Douauinont and Vaux
Is Mil proceeding.
The n'hVlal statement follows:
On the western front, northeast of
Varnielles and south of I .a llarse
canal, after effective preparation by
artillery tire and successful explosions,
we recaptured from the British the
small advanced positions which they
took by mine warfare on March 2, The
gi eater part of the troops n occupa
tion were overwhelmed. Thirty survl
vms were taken prisoners. Counter
attacks failed.
I.rns was again the object of British
Are.
On the left bank of the Meuse there
Is nothing nf Importan. v to report.
Tin French attunpted attacks on 1
M ir Homme and to the cast (of th-'
height). These were friisirattd In their
Initial lagiM. un the tlt:ht bank rhero
wa. aiftllt.i activity of considerable
intenM'y. Simultaneously al various
point.- to tin south of Fort fiiiiiaumont
ninl west of the vilhiKt of Vaux there
vv.o li.ind to haul fighting for the
p.e session of def. nco worrs. The ac
tinic ue not yet decided.
We ejeeii'd the Frem h from the po
sition occupied on March 3 near the
Thlauville forest, northeast of n.idon,
vlller. After destroying the enemy
shell err and taking forty-one prisoners
we returned to our trenches.
BRITISH LOSE CRATERS.
tiermana Heoccnpy firnand at
llohenaollern Itednabt.
Spn ltl Cabtt netixxtch to Trie Scs.
LoNiioN, March 19. The following
report from British headquarters In
France was Issued to-night by the offl
clal'press bureau:
On Saturday the enemy by exploding
mines recaptured three craters at the
llohenzollern redoubt.
On Sunday there was artillery ac
tivity about Arras, Armentlerea and
Wyschaete.
VERDUN HONOR PAID.
Knlarr Decoratee First Men ta
Kuter fort Honaamont.
Ueri.in. by wireless to Sayvllle, I,. T
March 19. The Overseas Newa Agency
Issued the following to-duy:
"The Kmperor bestowed the order of
Pour le Merlte to (.'apt. Ilaupt and First
Lieut. Hrander of the Twenty-fourth
Brandenburg Iteglment, who were the
first to enter Fort Douaumont with their
cumpanlag,-
BETHLEHEM PROFIT '
$24,831,408 IN YEAR j
Enough to hiy Per1
Cent, on Steel Company's
Common Stock.
IT SOU) AT :! IN 1 Ill,
Offers to Sell Armor Plate,
to Government at Its
Own I'i'iee.
The Jlethleheni Steel Corporation,
D0nter In flllltiK war orders, with n
S.8U0 and approprbillons of $I.7K..-
13f.r.4 were made as ptovlslon for the
e.lngulshment of mining Inu-stmcnts.
ti.nn.flllrit iif tv.ilMtils. ilotiri-cla 1 loll llf
lother properties and accruing lenewaN.
The net Income. aMiUible for dlvl-
denils. accordingly Is K.iSl'.sl'.'.bl. as
...,.,. --.I ..1,1, f. r.Hll o'll 1H III IHll.
r i'""f' . , , ,
1 After 7 per cent, on Ihe picferred stock;
5l5,U?.'jj on the corresponding day of
1914.
The Joint statement of Charles m.
Schwab, chairman of the board, mil II.
S. Hrace, president, savs that th torn
pany I working to full cnp.icU.v except
In one resK'Ct, namily, the armor plate
department. Itegardlng the futilities of
the company to turn out armor plate and
It- readiness to cooperate th the Culled
States Hovernment an unusual ofler Is
reported. Tile corporation has offer id ti
Mil orders for the Hovernnient as cheap
ly as they can be tilled by a Hovern
ment factory.
The remarkable figures of protlts ills-
. played In the preliminary report of the
I Hethlehem Corvor.itlnn and the prospects
of big business ahead recalls that
I Schwati's corporation Is an enterprise
that at one time was laughed at. The
profits had been foretuld In the Jump In
the price of the stock last vear from
, 4t ' tin .lanuurv to Still on i to-
ber 2- last, followed by a drop to around
' 40 1 That the annual report was e.
Ttictert to sbnic I il i- lirnflti' lias lml'i-.itiil
lust e..v in- ihe rise nf the Kioei. in
. r.tr. It h.ui been iiroiibe.le.t tii.it the
profits would show alsiut loo per cent.
' on the common stock.
IIIk (ialni. nf II a ram In Hunter.
According to the unrinuncemerit of
yesterday, the seeker after bar gains w ho.
In the panic market a few days be tore
the Kuropcan war started m Kill, had
seized the opiMirtunlty to buy Hethlehem
at 34 now stands a chain e of vetting
back the price paid for the stock at least
twice over In the dividends of .me jtsir
The figure of 11SI per cent earned on
the common place "l.lttle Steel" at the
head of the "war brides," for no oth"r
' corporation of big capitalization that
, has lieen tilling war orders has been aide
, to show such profits, with the inis-dhle
. exception .if the I'nlori Metallic Ca'-
trldge Conipari and the Du Pont Pow-
iter companies.
How the total net earnings of the cor-
I,or "I"11 have grown "rce the war began
ue shown bv
tne io:iot ing flgllles of
pti-vious years: I'M:. ?.7.i",i".71 . 1012.
?:.,!! 1. 43P : tsll. I4.7p:,713; tuns. ;,.
sr.i:.r.P-: IdOfi. I.Jfi,17;.. In all lha-e
yeais no sucii llli.-ial aumuiits were .-uli-
tr.lCted fl'litll the lift 1 irii.l'.-S fill deple
elation, tii.iiiilt'ii.in.'" jn exi i- inrdlii u
tt.i.ii s a" vvete in, ul, ed off list veor
The .nivalin, siim narv of the animal
leport given out jesienlaj, .ift, i tilling
if the e irnlngs', n iys :
'The average rvi-nbcr of empinv e,'
the Frilled Statis n i;i5 v ,s ;2.rn; i,
against 15.C.X0 In 1014 Wngis paid
In 1915 amounted to ;i V00,iifi4.ip,
against 14,312,!HS,7S In 1S14,"
Venr'n llFKlnnlnK .nt Mrlglil.
Mr. Schwab and Mr Hrace make
in
the report, the following general
marks to stockholders upon conditions
rtlatlnc to the corisiratlon's affairs-
"At the beginning of the year 1 9 If, tin
steel business of th" Frilled States was
much deprissed. due to some extant
to the Kuropcan war This condition
was rapidly changed, however, by the
ver large orders for steel products
placed In this eountiy by the various
1'iirupe.ii) Ho ernmcnts and by an in
creased demiiud for doniestie eonump
t'.ou. This combined fiueign and do
liestte demand luia .created .in null-tin!
' condition in the si..,., in.iiis-t r and m
day tli.'ic exists in iiMii.il -ii .iiatti of
' i te.'l :ii:il;l'n; ap.iiity In Ims c.iuntr.i.
Ther omnl. lions, ioiiple.1 with Ihe diffi-
cultv of obtaining raw materials and
an Increase i, ri.e piict of l,ib..i. lime
lerulted In a rapid lucri.ise in tin price
of steel products,
'The financial slatemt tits suiniltlid
with thlH report retlect the generallv
prosperous condition of the steel Industry
during the major portion of last year,
As Is well known, your corporation has
had for many scars p tst well developed
organizations and plants for the inarm-
faeture of ordnance ami iiiuiiitiou.s
war. The resulting aininy io i aim
Hunnlv the extraordlnaty deruand for
such products accounts In huge degren
for the increase in eurmns-s ' " ' ; ' i greal dreamers-l -ll.l dr. am
previous year. appear. rh Senator ua. tnmnmnl. ate ...iihoii-. of miles of wlr.f coveilng
"In view of the earnings of the past I with Mr. Morgan to-day to arrange a ,,, ,e ,1.. lalking lit... ..go
year dividends were declared of 7 r llmo for the hitlers appearance, ' ovei them, hut I inner
k-nt. ou the preferred stock and 30 per He a'so has im i.ppo , inen, Ms ' Vasl enough ,!hl..k of or ,1 ..;,
cent, on the common stock of your cor-, inornliig with . I. '"" '. Itnrrie .(.Kraphy or telephony '
miration, payable in quartet ly Hiatal-, tor tieorge minis, mm mn n
.i.iriinr talfi. U-ealid Die Dane memorandum. Senator
Only Armnr Plate I.-ikh.
"With the recent extraordinary market
for all classes of steel prodiuis and for
slips the various plants of your corpora
tion enter the year 191 with all depart
ments with one exception running at full
capacity.
"That exception Is the armor pl.ito de
partment. Hethlehem Steel Company
hag practically completed deliveries to
the (lovernment on ull pending armor
contracts. Contracts for tho current
year have not been awarded,
"Your attention Is called to the fact
that a bill Is pending In Congress and
, Continued on 7Mnf Pngt.
SEEKS MORE BURIED
'OFFERS' ON SUBWAY
Thompson Helieves Others He-
sides the Shouts Note Were
Sidetracked.
LA I'd IIS AT KXI'LANATION
Whitney Denies He Ilepgcd
Senator to Orop Opposi
tion in Albany.
Senator lieorne F. Thompson nsterted
laht nlt!ht that the unsigned letter from
'Informal" offers were made by the In-
terborougli of a similar nature and that
"' met the same fate as the unsigned
U'ttCr.
Senator Thonipion does not take any
t,,, the explanations that have been
iiiuiir iii'i'ill llli- iinuiliruui..!. i-iii..
.. ,, .., .... ,, ,
Inir the hhonts letter. He has heard
, that Ihe Inteiboroiigh board of directors
arproed the terms contained In the un
signed letter to Mr. WIHco. dated March
'j:'. P.'ln. the day alter the letter was
submitted to the Public Service chairman
for liN approval It has been maintained
that th
offer" win. never acted upon
I Ih ,ll.e.....r ur.nl.l I.,. I I
tt) i, ' Hen. Scott at once wired the contents
This letter was produced at t, of the telegram to C,e,i, Kunstoii at San
Thompson hearing a week ago Saturday, i Antonio. Tex explaining to llepte.ent .
The ...intnlttee tool; the stand that It''1" f,l,V"1 ",""''; disposition of the
hn.l l.eeti rim led lit the I'll b lc Ser- I
vh
otnmlsslon's safe for six years, but
both Travi II. Whitney ami Comptroller
Prendetgast denied that and said
the "offer" was known to the Hoard of
Intimate ninl was dlscussnl In the news
papers at the time it was presented.
Doesn't aree With I'renderaant.
Me 1'r.iMl.rin.l .le-ture.l itn.l III., urn.
visions in the letter would riot give the
.Itv the siibwav svstem later adopted. I
bui Senator Tl oinps.in -al.l last night '
that th- Comptroller wa- "only tecbnl-
.ally right.'' beeause Madison avenue '
was substltute.i for lxlngtou avenue.
Senator Thomps.,, said that In all '
wr'T.ivtto rtv Zi o'lv
f.r .w mM.J,'.r.,ii.- .1' '.. i0'., .'!
it.' ..iiiiMia. i.i,in,M..i ... .. ...
additional to those In the present dual ,
COIliracis. I liereiore uiti vuhiihuht:
f.l .1,... It Is Imnnrtarit to et all the .
.i ,i ,-i..e iet.,ira 1
otl'er "Informal offers that w'ere made
Presl lent Sh.M.ts will be ouestloncd '
t length rfl,ut tills Phase when ,u..
c'cnni'tt.,. meets this morning Senator
Thompson got a telegram from him yes
terdiv saving that the Interborough
bead would be present to t-Mlf
The ciinirnlllee s chairman said also i
in outlining his plans for future hearings
hat as It was so difficult to get at the
facts It would probably take the com-
,i fm.v liear.nL- .lavs to anlh the '
i......utt...i?inti ..f the iln.tl tnitracts. in t
this connection Senitor Thoinpsoii as
strted that Commissioner Whlttiev told1
an employe of the committee that he
would be able to help the committee If I
the Senator agreed to let up on him In
the tight to prevent hi continuation as
Public Sirviee Commissioner This j
statement drew the following reply from i
Commissioner Whittle
"It stems that It Is not safe to talk i
with St nator Thompson or any repre-
sesiitatlve of his committee without hav
ing a witness prtsent. The last thing
that etr was In my mind was to under-
t.k. in make a deal with Senator
Thnmi.son. I have b-en satlsh.il to a!
him to go as far as he used anu
..ii i.e ..until to t ie attention oi
th. public.
( nils Tlioinii-on I'nfnlr.
iilij.., tinn Ii i- been that In ...i"
i- a fan fh.i.igh to want all the
I'l.nle pulili''. I am glad ail if
....in me. f i r i.r unfair, was s .1
M
n. er
fa. t
said before 'n!
tlr'n.i'ion
nv confirm ition. I think my co:.-
I.) tin Senate alter nis un
fa tlg.i' 's suni.'letit answer io .nu
llum, h said.
"On M -rch 4 I saw Senator Thomp
son at his request He said. 'I hear you
are n little disturbed. The only thing
1 know about Is this Hrnoklvn elevated
business that Senator Dawson I- talking
about. What have ou got on your
nilndV ,
"I replied: 'I think there are eome
things von ought to go after; for In
stance, the third tracking contrails I
have no farts, but the subject ought to
be Investigated Ihoroiighb . 1 think i
also vou should talk to Mr. Wlllcox.
who had negotiations with Mr. Shunts
which were busied by Mayor Haynor.' 1
"Hut at no lime did I talk about anv i
deal with Senator Thompson or any
eniploven of his and at no time did I
lo.. Ini' quarter from Senator Thomp
on, alt 'mug! I h.i've bten glad to help
It.lll Ml elerV M "
S'M.itor Thompson s'ld that the mill,
truck on which Hi'" 'tii'iiltlee Is work
'ng s ili.it revealed !' the memorandum
ii'ini the crave of Hntdiner M. I.aiie, '
which referred t" "commltm. tits and
ihllgations " He said he thought the
"'lush fund" trail wis of the greatest
importance. But. he added, every one
concerned stems to abide by a nile that
he must not tell anything until com
iielled to on tin witness stand, mid
therefore the committee Is forced lo
i spend a long lime gelling at tnn iruta
of certain negotiations.
It Is probable that .1. P. Morgan and
oriiieorge vv, mmm in.. ue in.iii.-n m
tne wiiiiesi. s.an.i .me .v. .......
Tlioinnsoii said that as Mr. Morgan had
returned from huropo voluntarily hit
Thompson had been told that Mr. Young ,
i will 1". av.ilianie wnen wauic.i.
P. 8. BOARD TO MEET TO-DAY.
Work That Han Accumulated
Lately Will Be Attacked.
The Public Service Commission, now
complete with five Commissioner", will
hold a meeting this morning for Ihe
purpose of speeding up the work that
piled up recently The commission ran
for a period with only two Commis
sioners until Oscar Straus was appointed
chairman.
Commissioner Whitney wns at work In
his office until late laat evening.
PERSHING SPLITS FORCES
TO CATCH VILLA BETWEEN;
FIRST WORD FROM FRONT
TEXANS BEG FOR TROOPS
TO AVERT VI LUST A RAID
Band Burning Ranches Threatens to "Kill Gringos" in
Presidio; Gen. Scott Wires Plea to Funston Alarm
ing Reports of Carranzistas at Torreon.
WAKiiiNciToK, March IP. I'rgent ap-
peal was made to the War Department
to-day by the people of Presidio, Te.x.,
for additional troops to protect them
from a threatened VIllM.i raid lit that
point. Representative William It. Smith
,, , .... .,
of Texas called on Major-Hen. Scot',
Chief of Staff, who Is acting Secretary
of War In the ab-ence of Secretary
Haker. and laid before him a telegram j
iJgned by residents of the town.
Tin telegram stated that Carratiza I
scouts coming Into the Mexican town of !
tJlnaga, opposite p-esidlo, hae repftrted
force of 1.1., VIHIstas eighty nille.s
south, who were burning ranches and
committing depredations Leaders of
the band, so the senilis report, are boast
mg or uieir intention to "wipe out ine
I gringos" at Presidio and give the res.
, ilenls a taste of what happened a few
I days ago at Columbus, N. M.
The band Is beleei to be operating
I Independently of the main VIIINta force.
The bandits, the telegram states, ale
conserving ammunition, on the ground
"H want to u-e ineir nuiiets on
po iUiailoll nj ITeSIIIIO
' Klp ailing III" niiroei is enu rei, m . ten
Funston's hands. The telegram sets
forth that the residents had appealed to
the American l ommati ler of the district
which Includes Presidio, but bad been
told b him that no more troops could
be spared.
Trnoi Fifty Mllen tnny,
1 oes,,..,, nes iroul te nnnit'r lllis
afternoon stated that ..en. l unston had
already ordered practically nil the trnnps
"-UD-V -K- th" Hlg 1 b ud district of
a- 'eluding Presidio to olumbus.
VV,.'1. V"T. h'iVe. Har'.-I Is not known
"- V'r "'i' ,
, ''"
"1J1"t Tr."s A, H and D are at Al-'
Pine. Valentine and Marfa respectively,
all of whbh towns aie along the line of
V.., ?,! . iV o.. ,li J'..t " f.. , .
.
to "f,vm,1,,!' :iwn- . t
- The carranin garrison at ojinaga Is
Vd ",ly .T- , 'V"
manded by a. llojas Last week It vv.,
reporte,y he garrison had ri.ut.m. d an
' '"' " 'ornmander. but this was In:,
iml
er
dlsprovfd. War Department olllcers say
the demands for protccrlon of towns
""""r "",K
Almost c ...'Mentally with the appeal
from Presidio Hen. Scott received this
despatch from Hen I- unston r mtordlng
anxiety at Calexlco, on the California
line
I'p.in inuulry of the commanding
(ietier.il, Wt stern Department, as to
whether all the First Cavalry was to
leave, or whether two tn-ops roul.l b
left at Calexlco, knowing that the Im
perial Valley was an Important point
and would no doubt rtipilre protection,
1 ri plied that the two t oops at r.(.
lexleo should remain where they are
As tbb point is not in my depart
ment It would not be in my province
to send other troops there, and for the
present I should not want to spare
any for this purpose.
Although praetle.i ly nothing ,s now-
being Iif an! dlrtctly from Hon Pershing
roiicernmg ine movi int-ii m m- .-.i
r nn. enough is nenig .t rn.-u i'mn "in
'till"llial report!' I '.K'l in g the f it I"
p,.tl. i ul as to III- tl .b.ib e w I er. ootlts
or Villa to Iti. r-i so t. t. ii
L itest i dvites ie. ..r. II
v, HI. . bout Mm follow- i.i
Ulllt IWtsfe H ll.le ll I
Huerrero distrn t. w .. it l.
eh
p.lltN
DR. BELL WORKS BEST
AT 12 TO 3 A. M HE SAYS
Inventor, in I'liusual Inter-
view. Talks of rutiire Feats
of the Telephone.
Huston. March IP In o-ie of the very
few Interview's ever grant'. 1, I"'. Ab x -
aider Hell. Inventor t:.e n b phone,
a 'in "I'lesi n- sm-i .iiioi.i
it in
Ins eiTift- to Hn.l an
te lillil
in el tit ill
I In lie I,
l,.m,
t t, t. . r
t.e old o
about '.
ear.
to risi
I'nif Hell surprised those win talked
with him )' saying that for more than
toriv ic.irs Ills retiring hour '.as been
fnm'i 3 A M. to 4 A. M.
Dr. Bell prefers to do his thinking
after midnight, when Ihe world Is asleep.
lie savs that lie has always been able to
do better work I rum uiiumgnt until .. or
4 o'ebs'k In the morning man nt any
other time.
He finds that six or seven hours sleep
Is enough lor him and ihvl.il rs that
at seveiiiy his brain is us clear and
active as ever.
Di. Bell says frankly lli.it Ii" never
.... I)f wireless teleiibouv
' ' " ' ' V . '..,,' ' "' "
I did
dream, said h", "when I was a oiit
man ou know young Inveiiiors an
Prof. Hell said that before long he
looked fur th" transmission of slglit over
the telephone. If this should enme about,
he said, the late ongressnun Tim
.Campbell of New York was not so far
l off when lie was called up by telephone'
by a friend who had been visiting him
.ill.) asked If lie had si the latter a
umbrella Campbell so the story goes,
held an umbrella up to the transmitter
"f 'he telephone and lnqulr.il or
friend on Ihe other end of Hie wire,
ins
Is
this yours.'
IT, lien .iif.' en tn i.n.i .. ..-m.-.i .i.i -
ward to a wonderful development of
telepathy, when men will go about with
culls of wire In their hats sending and
receiving messages. "Thai," he said,
with u hearty laugh, "will be literally
talking through one's hat-"
larly stioug, toward i 'hiliu.ihua and
Torreon. That be Is endeavoring to stir
up a targe fdlowlng among his former
oMIers l regarded as certain. I'nited
States Consul I.-tcher. al ClilhUuliUa.
which Is Villa's old capital, has been In.
"Iru - tcl to ..end dally repot Is oil wl.r.t
ho leains of Villas whereabouts,
strmi(: ,,0IIl t.N,sU ,,,,,. J(( t(J l(. ,
lojulty of the Ciirrniizii garrison all
Torreon. Press reports to-day say that I
outbreak hae ocurreil In the city be-
twten VIHIstas and c,rr.mv.Nt.is, audi
last week I'tiltcd States Consul A. I..
Williams left hurriedly for the. border i
with forty American refugees.
Mexiians lii Washington who for
inerly represe iied Villa here predicted
to-night thai Villa's purpose un-
ilouble.ll.v Is to lake Torreon. garrison i
himself there .mil then depend on his .
iigeuts throughout northern Muxl.'o to
stir up a storm of Indignation against '
the entry of Amirlcan troojis on Mexican
soil.
I'ersblliK Would Miirm Tumia.
Ill this courit'Ctlon oftl.ials of the War
Department made It plain lo-nlglil that
they would riot Intel prel the assurances
which were given Carranza by the State
Department that Pershing would not
occupy towns as preventing Pcrsnlng
from attacking Torreon or any other
low ii In which Villa might seek rtfuge.
For this reason the do not believe Per
shing would hesitate a minute to storm
a town whl.'h Villa might hold.
With all reH)rts from the bonier In
dicting that Pershing and Dodd have
gotten well Intit Mexico, officials here ex
peel at an lime to hear of actual light
ing. Meantime they are prepared to
hear of raids at Isol ited points along the
bonier by VHP. sympathizers in an effort
to prevent reenfnn'ements being sent to
Pershing's suppoit.
Subordinate officials of the State f)e.
partmrut who have been dealing with
the Mexican problem for years ex
pressed the conviction to-n'gbt that the
coming week would develoji a critical
situation. Itepor.e which high officials
"f the Department are suppntsln( as
being nothing more than rumors, are
accumulating to show that reentme.nt
ae'tlllHt
' .K '. .
the American expedition Is i
steadily growing In northern Mexico.
If the Jitdgimiil of the subordinates of'
the Department N to tie followed, the
ous tlareup' throusiiout'The country be-: nl:lll-v '- the Carranzlstas
low the Hlo nr.. ride "Hen. Pershing. conrm..hdini: i.-e
Carrau.i. w hose attitude toward the , , , , .
expe.l.tion heretofore Ins 1 n one of 'f","'d American forces, has ma-
aciiui. scen.-e rather than approval, has ferred with C.ir.-anza cornmaridi.lit.
not been heard from In reply to nn ur- and encornp.is.slrig movements have.
gent reipiest made on him by the State iJt.,.n starl.sl bv which It l.s hoped lo
srier vm' "..ick ,..
per mission f'ir American troops to use; , '
the Mexican Northwestern railroad to 1 ransport.ulnn and cnmniimb a turn
transport irmy supplies from HI Paso here are under American and I'.irti.n.i
to Casas crandie. in their desire 10
pet the expedition over wltn as soon as
pns-ilile. off: -la's of the War Depart
ment believe the use of the road Is es
sential. Hen Seott. It was learned to-night.
bus pla I at the disposal of Pershing
through Hen Funston the entire fund of
$:'(i.naii in the IJuarteruiaeler-nci.crnl's
Dtpirlnient tnr the implovment "of
s.'ouis. spies and Interpreters." With
this uinpev Hen Pershing will have the
means of getting guides and valuable In
loimatlt'ti Horn friendly .Mexicans in the
ti nlnrv through which he passes.
ii.lu v eek lien Scott will send to
C. i gres. nn e-tlmnte fur "rt,i.ni to te
p, ,. the n onev sent to Pershina Owing
'. tl.. .I'ltv of gold In Mexico at
ihk.ii t'v titll, eis hope that In a
libel . I i ,.i n.'Hure nf the lipids at his
.Imh.s.i' in'. Per I nc '.ill be able to
v !, s. ti . n K t'.e Mexicans
iC. F. ADAMS'S BOOK
ASSAILS HARVARD
His Aiitoliln-rraphy Alo Se-
verely Criticises Society
in I'.oston.
Huston, March 19. Harvard College
. and Huston society are sharply cniiciseu
, (n ,Iu. ,u,iobiogr.iphy of the lat" Charles
Adams. iust iiubllshc.l by
i Fraiu'ls Adams. Just published
lloiKhton Mii'llll A: Co. Mr. Adams
wrnle with l.e greatest frankness.
In n.'i rating win n he went to Har
vard he declared- "The professors
drudged away in a ilrc.ii. humdrum
sort of .. way In .. stereotyped method of
ilas-rooni instruction. Hut as for giv
ing rtlreitlon to, in the sense of shaping,
the Individual minds of young men
In
the'r must plastic stage, bu far as 1
know, nothing of the kind was ever
di tamed ..f Tne only variation has
been through Clint's effort to replace It
by the y.-t mole pernicious system of
premature sx ci.ilU.it ton.
"The fuucrloii of tin. college Is an all
round ilcvt lopiueiil as a basis for univer
sity specializations I .In it never grasie'd
Hi it fundamental fact, and so he under
took to turn Harvard College into a . ier
man university -spe.-i.tlllng tin. student
at IX He then tn ide still wmsti what
was m my time bad enough."
(if Huston society Mr. Adams wrote:
"I have tiled Boston s.viall- op lt
sides, I have summered It and wintered
It: trltd it drunk ..ml tried It sober ,
and, drunk or sober, there's nothing In
II save Boston
"iiui iiouiili' with Huston sih-liilly
that It Is an edd, so to sp.Mii, n the
gieat world current With powciful
formative traditions It has a kisn self
1 applet latlon For strangers, well tntio
duced, It Is a dellghtiul city; for a life
long resident it Is curiously com ru
tlnnal and 'borne.' "
i
I.IIIH British (nsunltlea In Dm.
."rij) Vable Htspatc'i tn Till'. Si x
I.ostiox, March 11' Tho olllcial Ilrlt
IMi casualty list Issued to-day contains
the names of HO olllcers. of vvliiini 4S
weie killed, ami of t,US men, of whom
4 ( wire aiiieo. I thn ranch connscated, but when lit mw
header and Band Slip
Tln,onrrli Pass and Get
Into Sonora.
CAKHAXZA FOKCKS
FAIL TO STOP TIIKM
One F. S. Force Near Pear
son. Dodd to Keep on
Villa's Trail.
3I0KKCAVALKVSKXT
TO AID IX CI I ASK
Column Covers 1 10 Miles in
12 Honrs Men in .ool
Condition.
IlKAiKjfvtrrn.s or (!i:.v. Pciiriiimi in
Muxbi). wireless to c.iltnnhus. N M..
March 1?. "Wo are hot on the trail of
Hen. Francisco Villa.
"Our troops arc camped here (name
deleted by censor) after two dojn of
forced inarches through uuterlcss
plains and mountain ilelllrs. This 1
thc column that secretly rmiwruvrcd
across tht: IsmKr at (name deletedl.
We expect to connect with the Colum
bus column here.
"The column covered 1 1 it mile tn
forty-two hour-..
"Some horses and mules droppid
during the march, but tho general con
dition of the men ami ..nlm.ils Is lino
"Scouts have come upon traco of
Vlll.i in the mountains to the south .i
here and tin: army will contlnuo lh
pursuit tii-inorrow. I have knovvicdAe
that the .Mutinous at Uiumu uVlet'd)
are safe.
''T!lt-.lte..,.it ,1... ! ...L ......
..... ... in.. ...... .11 inn in-r-
j can tftsiiss havt
bfen received i .r-
coiuroi i.i prevent word reaching
Villa."
BORDER HEARS OF
j PERSHING'S PLANS
llendlnu for 1'eiirson Col. Iio.lit
In To l.e ( liiii'iiln i,. ..
Hi. Pvso. Tex., March 1:. . i,i,
Pershing ha- ilivided hi., fiirt-e- ui the
hope of catching Villa betwe. n tlioni,
accoidliig to Information r'-uluiic
here to-d.i.v
l.atiy till iiioriiitig Pershliic - i I
to have left c.im,; CiiMtide.s f,.r tb
j siiulli, hfiiiiii f,n- fear- ii. wh..ii f,r
j Is reported ft. have reached l.ir. ,h
afteniiMiii. Tn-rii!.lit he Is .-iil-nisi-i In
be c.iliipln,' siM1t, f ivru-son in tht
i mountains.
The cnliiinri under ('11111111.1111', .if C,d
D.idil. which real I1.1I c.is.is 1 ii-..i.iie
al'c.nl of lien. Ivr-li'iiK. was stit
southeast through Chocolate Pas- it t
ri pniii'il, f.illiivvnig th,' trull wlmli tin-Cariaiil-ta.s
declare Ilia rimk 111 Ins
rcttv.tt south.
1 i"ii I'tii'shing's repoiiid pi. in ,- to
in.inii his own force tuiutli par il'...
with tho Mexico Nortliw e-iern i-.nl
, rind, lining to iiict'l ur overtake the
' bandit leader, who has passed through
ih ciuiilintiiiil divnlo iiver the Hal .
enra trail from l.us Crticcs, whop' he
was rcpnrtid yestenliy. Cnl, l)iM i
i'Xt'Ctid in keep on tht trail nf the
bandit and Ins inen cither tlirnui'h n."
cinitliiciital tllvldc nr south fi'iuii Lis
Cilices. II, rough .N'.inilqulp.l, ti.wafil
( iileiitio.
Best Int'.irniiitl.m obttilnable ii.-d. y
Is that Villa Is 111 the vlcmit id th"
Hearst Balneum much, having i.i.-'nl
tlirniii.il the inniintalris fortu.ng tin
ciilltlllt'llllil lllvnl" Without lUolcst.t
lloli li.v Un- Car raiiz.1 liviips,
llln bniidiiii4 I, ope'.
In his linsto Vlll.i Is rcporii'il to
have iiUindoiieil Pablo l.t-jio.. mic nf
Ills Iteiiteuiilits, wounded 111 the nit'l
nu Ciiluiiiluis, N. M., at 111 Vullo, whea
In- passed througli that place, l.npi-.
was the niaii who rmiiriiandt d the
Mexican force which riiiissacnd cigli
lien Americans; at Santa Ys.i!"i ir
.1 aim:. rv .
A fiw days after the massacre tut
C irr.nizlstas exhlhlted the corpse of n
man In Juarez whlcli they cla med was
thai of Lopez, but which Ann li.vaitr
who knew Lopez declared was tl'.r
. nrpse nf nii.ith.'i man List wee'.
Dime?, w is lei.nried among tho ile.nl -it
CnlUMihus. Imt this v. as latir iici-"i1-Hell
when sevt ral of the captured Vi!
llst.in assert! d Hut I.op-z rt.-aped, b.,'
w.is woiinileil.througli the b;. .
The news of the abandoning of Imp..
b Villa was reiVfveit" In Juarez to
Hen Havira th.s altiini'on The mes
sage lidded that twenty other -w oiind' I
were iilianiloiied In' Villa to enable v. 10
to make lutter progress hi his n'tn at
.I .1 m returning 10 tho n..nl..i-a
countrv, is back wheru ronie time ago
he murdered Peler lvecne, auilltoi1 tor
tho riiiuii, and killed many of the cattle
nu the place.
For a time ho declared
1
