iSHLAND
Tidings
"Ashland Grows While Lilhla Flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Lithia Springs
"Oregon's Famous Spa"
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1916
VOL. XL
NUMBER 86
State
Report Slates Mineral Waters Are
Exceptionally Pure-Puts End to
Unfounded Rumors.
Because of stories circulated by
knockers to the effect that the min
eral waters were contaminated and a
health menace, the state board of
health was Invited to inspect the min
eral water plant, and on Invitation of
the springs water commission, Dr.
Roberg, chairman of the state board,
was here a week ago and In company
with the commission and the local
health board made a complete Inspec
tion of the physical plant and took
samples of the various waters at the , organisms unless It were distilled and
intakes and outlets. kept sterile. Specimen No. 1 from
The following report from the state Dod8e wel1 intake 'lelded 8 bac
board gives the Ashland project the , teria per c. c. and there was no
cleanest kind of a slate, states in no , formation of gas in Inoculated media
mincing manner that the water are'" '"tose bile. This denotes there
"exceptionally pure," and puts a de- Present no organisms of the colon
cisive end to all doubt as to the pur- j sroup, consequently no contamina
te nt the wntm-. nH Hnltnrv condi-! tion. Examination of specimen No.
tion of the mineral water plant:
Oregon State Board of Health,
Port'and, March 17, 1916.
Mr. Bert R. Greer, Chairman Springs ; Jithfa outlet, sh4wed 4 colonies per
Water Commission, Ashland, Ore. ' C- c. wh'ch is very exceptionally low.
Dear Sir: This office submits the j There was no gas formation, conse
followlng report on the analyses quently no contamination,
made on three samples of water from I Sincerely yours,
your supply, namely, No. 1 from the DAVID N. ROBERG,
Dodge well Intake, No. 2 from the State Health Officer.
Prof. Allen Eaton
Will Lecture Here
Allen Eaton of the University of
Oregon will lecture at the Ashland
public library Thursday evening of
this week on art. He comes to Ash-: mountains wi'l begin to open tip.
land under the auspices of the C. L. The Southern Pacific Company has
S. C. No charge will be made for Informed the SiBkiyou county offi
the lecture and everyone Is urged to i cials that work on the two grade
be present. In the past the lecture j crossings yet uncompleted in that
given by the extension workers of the ; county will be commenced as soon as
university were not as well attended ! weather permits,
as they should be because the gen-j The completion of the two cross
eral public did not understand that , lng8 one iocated at Bailey hill, be
no charge was made. It is to be . tween Hornbrook and Hilt, and the
hoped that a capacity house will greet . other at Black Butte 8limrait( be
Mr. Eaton. He brings with him a
display of pottery which Is well worth
seeing.
Mary Pickford in
Madame Butterfly
Mary Pickford, "America's sweet
est;' and Ashland's favorite screen
actress, will be at the Vining Tues
day evening in an exquisitely artistic
portrayal of John Luther Long's
classic, "Madame Butterfly."
The pathetic story of Cho-Cho-San
"Madame Butterfly," as her treach
erous American husband calls her is
told with infinite artistic skill. There
Is no pretence of showy theatricallsm
in the staging of the production,
which has been accomplished with the
assistance of especially engaged au
thorities on Japanese costumes and
manners. For settings, the most
beautiful Japanese gardens in Amer
ica were used.
Triangle Pictures, Wednesday and
Thursday.
On Wednesday and Thursday even
ings, Triangle nights, the Vining
Theatre will present two feature
films, a comedy and a society drama,
making up an extraordinarily good
program. The comedy is something
. new and better even that the past
Triangle offerings. In "Stolen Magic"
Raymond Hitchcock, Mabel Normand,
Mack Stennet and a supporting cast
of the cleverest comedians of the
screen present a comedy scream with
a succession of funny episodes result
ing from the introduction of a Hindu
mystic with a bunch of snakes into
an American household.
The problem of "Should a wife try
to hold a husband." is the central
theme of "Matrimony," with Julia
Dean in the stellar role. Little
Thelma Slater, four-year-old child
wonder who delighted an Ashland
audience in a recent picture, bids fair
to displace Miss Slater as the star of
the production.
Ashland Tidings wants ads bring
results. tf ,
of Ilealli
Gives
new lithla well intake, No. 3 from the
fountain out'et of the new lithla
well. The object of these analyses is
to determine the number of bacteria
which are present in one cubic centi
metre of the water. Tests are also
made for the presence of bacteria of
the colon group. This denotes con
tamination. Examination of these
three specimens shows the water to
be exceptionally pure; In fact, the
water could scarcely contain fewer
2, new lithia well intake, showed but
6 bacteria per c. c. There was no
fermentation and consequently no
contamination. Specimen No. 3,
Siskiyou County
Road Soon Done
The Pacific Highway In Siskiyou
county will be ready for travel in a
few weeks, . when travel over the
tween Weed and Sisson, will com
plete the state highway in Siskiyou
county. The approaches to the
Shasta and Klamath river bridges are
being rushed to completion and will
be entirely finished in about two
weeks.
Stock Raisers
Meet at Medford
The Dead Indian Stock Raisers'
Association met at the public library
at Medford last Wednesday. M. L.
Erlckson, supervisor of the forestry
service for this district, met with
them, the co-operation of his service
being offered wherever possible. A
large attendance participated in the
business of the meeting. George W.
Owen of 'Ashalnd is president, and
Fred Nell, also of Ashland, Is secre
tary. Committees were appointed to take
up matters of seasonal interest and
take care of them in time for the use
of the range in that district this year
to the best advantage. Drift fences
and their locations were discussed,
sources of water supply, their devel
opment for more water this year and
their protection were arrange'd for,
and many other matters of interest
to those whose stock use that range.
It was the opinion of a number of
those who attended the meeting that
this will be a good range year, the
wild grasses having started vigorous
ly and the moisture being much more
abundant than It was at this time last
year.
A surprisingly large number of peo
ple make Lithia park their daily
haunt, and any one of them whom
you meet will tell you of new walks
and beauty spots which they have dis
covered, The scope of Ashland's
parks may only be realized by sev
eral days of exploration? The park
workers have constructed several
miles of footpaths on the bills above
the creek, and one day is Just a be
ginning If one wishes to "see It all."
fllfWfim
Irrigation of
District Feasible
The report of the federal reclama
tion service, w ho had several survey
ing parties making a survey of the
water resources and possible Irriga
tion projects of the Rogue River val
ley, Is completed and Is published in
brief herewith. The report recom
mends the irrigation of the entire
acreage of the valley as an "Immedi
ate possibility." The valley is di
vided Into two districts, one embrac
ing the va'ley from Medford to Tolo,
and the other the Ashland district.
The report commends the system of
the Rogue River Canal Company and
recommends that the landowners of
the lower valley put their land under
the company's water.
The Ashland district has several
available water sources. The report
advises immediate deve'opment of
laterals from Bear creek and further
investigate and later development
of one or more of several available
sources and systems. Those interest
ed In valley Irrigation, which by the
way is deemed by the government in
vestigators to be a necessity in all
but years of maxlmium rainfall, are
greatly pleased with the report. A
meeting will be held at Talent soon,
It Is understood, to discuss the mat
ter. Summary of ReiKrt.
The Investigations have been made
with possible future development in
mind rather than the projects already
constructed or proposed, although
these projects have had a consider
able influence on the conclusions
reached.
The land Is practica'ly all In pri
vate ownership. Sections of the val
ley are closely populated, small rather
than large farms being the rule. Ap
proximately halt ot the valley is
planted to orchard, the remainder be
ing devoted to the growing of grain
and forage crops. The area Is par
ticularly adapted to the growing of
apples and pears, and some of the
finest orchards in the state are found
here.
The soil survey made by the de
partment of agriculture in 1911
shows that the average texture of the
soil Is a clay loam. The fact that
practically all of the soils are desir
able, with irrigation, indicates that
they will stand the construction
charges of any Irrigation system here
tofore proposed.
Irrigation Necessary.
In years of maximum rainfall Irri
gation is not needed. In years of
average rainfall irrigation would ma
terially and profitably Increase pro
duction. In years of minimum rain
fall the moisture is wholly Insuffi
cient and irrigation is necessary to
mature crops.
A duty of 1.5 acre feet delivered
on the land has been adopted. It Is
based on the assumption that fruit
will always be the predominating
crop in the valley.
The source from which the water
supply for Irrigation must come nat
urally divides the area into two dis
tricts, which are treated In the report
as the Medford and Ashland divis
ions. The Medford division Includes
all the area extending north to
Rogue river at Tolo which the Rogue
River Valley Canal Company pro
poses to Irrigate. The Ashland di
vision includes all the' area south of
this division.
Hear Creek and Little Butte.
It is estimated that Bear creek and
Little Butte creek, supplemented by
storage of Fish lake and Four-Mile
Continued on .Page Six.
Material For
Street Lights Delayed
Some time ago the city council au
11 , 1L. I .
wiorizeu me placing or rorty new
street lights In dark spots throughout
the city's thoroughfares. Some of the
residents of the shadowy streets have
begn to worry about the apparent in
activity of the light department. Su
perintendent Strickland tells us that
the material for the new lights has
been held up by the manufacturers
owing to extraordinary war orders,
but that the shipment Is expected in
the near future and the new lights
will be put In Immediately upon the
arrival of the material.
Lithia Attracts
Hundreds Daily
The lithia water is continuously
In the park now and hundreds of
Ashlanders are getting the habit of
making ilai'y trips to the fountain,
some Just to drink and some to fill
jugs and bottles. To the outsider
the prevalence of jug-carrying pedes
trians may load to doubts as to the
efficiency of the prohibition law un
til he follows the crowd and leani
the common destination in Lithia
park.
A dnily walk to the park is a good
habit and should become a regu'ar
dally occurrence with everyone. The
walk will do you nearly as much good
as the water. One of the main reas
ons for keeping the fountains In the
park was the benefit which the exer
cise derived from the walk gives.
Fifteen minutes after lunch or be
fore dinner every day spent in a walk
to the mineral water founta'ns will
make the day's work seem much
lighter.
Hang Street Light
At Park Entrance
The electric light department has
removed the pole which stood at the
entrance to Lithia park and has hung
a street light at the entrance. The
light is suspended from poles placed
on each side of the driveway. Tho
pole which was taken out stood in
the center of the drive and, beyond
i disfiguring the landscape was a men
ace to auto drivers.
Jacksonville School
Work To Be Shown
Manual training was Introduced in
the Jacksonville school this year as
an experiment, and the people feel
such a pride In its success Hiat they
are going to hold an exhibit of the
work accomplished along industrial
lines about the first of May. Sewing,
basketry, raffia weaving and manual
department work will be emphasized
at this exhibit.
Jacksonville feels that it has one
of the best manual training depart
ments In southern Oregon. The work
was laid out along practical lines, the
pupils making those articles which
could be used In the homes. The
boys under the direction of their In
structor, G. J. Shafer, built eight
doub'e work benches equipped with
rapid-acting vices, at a nominal cost
of $8 per bench, $110 was expended
for tools and a wood lathe installed.
The work was made compulsory to
all boys from the fourth grade up
through the grades and optional In
the high school. The course has
proven so popular that every boy in
the high school and a class of nine
high school1 girls are taking the work.
Superintendent Smith says that the
girls' work Is on a par and In some
cases superior to that of the boys,
three having finished library tables,
one a sewing table and another a
writing desk. The pupils start with
the rough lumber and follow the work
through to the last coat of varnish,
even turning the drawer pulls and
knobs used on the furniture. Elec
tric power wi'l be installed next year
and the department enlarged.
Celestano Cano, a Mexican, tried
to Btart a miniature war by shooting
at the caboose of a train from which
he was ejected near Coram recently.
The Mcx was captured and is await
ing a hearing In the county jail at
Redding.
Militia Team Wins
From Central Point
The Ashland Coast Artillery Corps
basketball team defeated the Central
Point Athletic Club by a score of 34
to 17 in a fast and Interesting game
Saturday evening. Millard Grubb
starred for Ashland, while Ross of
Central Point displayed dazzling
speed and accuracy. The visitors are
accustomed to a small floor and were
somewhat at loss on the big armory
floor. In a scrappy preliminary the!
Lincoln grammar school team from
Medford defeated the Ashland East
Side grammar team by a 17 to 15
score. The form displayed by the
lads assures both Ashland and Med
ford of good basketball material
when the present high school stars
are gone.
Business Men
Plan Valley Picnic
The Ashland Business Men's Asso
ciation will get behind a "trade at
homo" campaign as the result of dis
cission held at a meeting of the
business men's organization last
Tuesday night.
Another important project dls -
cussed was a big valley business
men's picnic to be held some time in
Juiy. A committee of three was ap
pointed to make arrangements for an
affair which will be attractive enough !
to bring most of the business men of
the valley to Ashland park.
Homer Elhart was elected record
ing secretary to succeed Monte
Briggs. An amendment lowering the
dues to 50 cents was glvon Its first
reading.
The next meeting will be of un
usual Interest. A talk on banking
wlil be given by an Ashland banker, a
musical program will enliven the
evening, and if arrangements can be
made a banquet will be served.
Big Crowds Visit
McGee's Store
The formal opening of McGee's dry
goods store and Hargrove's ml'linery
display in the new quarters occupied
jointly by the two was held Saturday
afternoon and attracted a big crowd.
The store was most artistically deco
rated with spring blooms and a beau
tiful d'sp'ay of the very latest spring
hats, suits and fineries greeted the
throngs. Mrs. McGee presided over
a booth and served punch during the
afternoon. The new store Is spacious
and affords ample room for the dis
play of what are among the biggest
and best dry goods and millinery
stocks In southern Oregon. The two
business houses are assured of even
a bigger patronage than they enjoyed
in the past.
A. J. Hanby for
School Superintendent
In the proper column In this Issue
will be read the formal announce
ment of A. J. Hanby for the
nomination on the republican tick
et for county school superintend
ent. Mr. Hanby is a normal
graduate and holds a life certifi
cate. He has taught in Jackson
county for fifteen years. He is now
principal of the Medford schools. Mr.
Hanby is a taxpayer In the county
and stockholder nnd director in the
Central Point bank. He is well
known and popular In educational
circles and Is a high-classed citizen.
Folder Issued by
Southern Pacific
An illustrated folder, "Four Gate
ways to the Pacific Coast," has just
been- Issued by tho passenger depart
ment of the Southern Pacific Com
pany. The new publication gives a
description of tho Southern Pacific
routes through New Orleans, Ogden,
Portland and El Paso, and the text Is
set off by no less than eighty fine
engravings. A prominent feature of
the folder, and an innovation in this
field of advertising, is a graphic two
color map which shows at a glance
the scenic and other attractions of
the westorn country, bearing out the
slogan. "AH tho Pacific Coast Is a
Show Place." This map Is Illustrated
with eighty-three Inset pictures.
Representation is given to all df
the states traversed by the Sunset,
Ogden, Shasta and El Paso routes of
tho Southern Pacific, and a special
section displays the varied charms of
California. Space Is devoted to the!
Panama-California International Ex-j
position, Can Diego, 1916, with views'
of the buildings and grounds.
The new folder Is attractively
printed in orange and black. Its
whole design and arrangement is cal-!
eulated to appeal to the tourist, and
... t.
me puuticuuuu ib iu lib given wiue
distribution throughout the east.
Mr. and Mrs. E. II. Bush left Tues- ,
day evening for Riley, Kan., being ,
called east by the serious Illness ot
Mr. Bush's aunt, Mrs. Amanda WH-
Hams. Mrs. Williams Is an Oregon j party. And the boys came down and
pioneer, having been a resident of. waded across to town In high glee
Portland for many years. She went over their day's sport, apparently en
to Riley, Kan., to visit relatives last ( tlrely unconscious of the danger they
October, underwent an operation and had caused others by their careless
is now seriously 111.
Sends Oranges to
Commercial Club
Secretary No'rris of the Commer
cial Club has received from Secretary
Ilulg, of the Whittier Chamber of
Commerce, Whittier, Cul., a carton ot
choice nave! oranges, which liavo
been placed on oxhllnt (for tho timo
'being) in the Commercial Club rooms
! They are of tho finest nua'itv and
there is no doubt they will brln?
many favorable comments to the dls-
I met in wnicn tney are grown.
Mr. llalg's letter In part is as fol
lows: "Mr. D. D. Norrls, Secretary Ashland
Commercial Club, Ashland, Ore.
"Dear Sir: Some time ago we re
ceived a very Interesting letter from
your organizat'on telling of your
wonderful mineral springs and en
closing your very unique und interest
ing facsimile of a glass of water. Wo
are g'ad indeed to congratulate you
upon the possession of this resource)
and to assure you of olir interest in
visiting you shou'd we ever he in tho
vicinity of Ashland.
"We ask you to accept from tho
publicity bureau of the Whittier
Chamber of Commerce a carton ot
choice navel oranges grown In tho
famous East Whittier district. It
may lie of Interest to you to know
that Whittier Is the center of a re
stricted district which Is primarily
growing the finest Valencias, tho
profitable summer orange of south
ern California. But we dare say you
will agree with us that tho navel aa
well grows to a very de'ectable per
fection In the Whittier district.
"We are asking that you will plaeo
this box of fruit upon your exhibit
tables as long as your self-restraint
will enable you to Ipave it there, and
where as many members of your or
ganization as Is possibie may see it.
At the end of that time we hope that
yourse'f and directors will find from
the consumption of it an Inspiration
and desire to come here and see for
yourselves what a prosperous city
and what a home-loving people wo
are here.
"If you dotcoms at any timo you
will find our headquarters at 116
Berry block, on Philadelphia street.
Please he assured It will give ua
pleasure to extend the usual cour
tesies to nienibors of our organiza
tion. "With this box of oranges goes our
best wishes for the prosperity nnd
success of your organization.
"Fraternally yours,
"WHITTIER CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE,
"M. J. Halg, Secretary."
Right of Way
For New Drive
The city council has appointed a
committee consisting of Councllmon
Root, Cornelius and Lamb to secure
the right of way for the proposod
drive on the west side of Ashland
canyon. The committee will take up
the work where It was left off last
year and will endeavor to secure the
remainder of the right of way as soon
as Ib possible. Last year a part of
the right of "way was secured.
While not enough funds may ba
found available to complete the drive
this year, the work will probably ba
started this spring. Wienvlew Drive
has proven a wonderful asset, and tho
proposed west drive will be a fur
more beautiful one. Leaving the can
yon at a point a short distance above
tho Intersection of Gienvlew Drive,
the proposed drive will follow the
water grade of the old Ash'and min
ing ditch to a point near the head of
Wlmer street, whence It will make a
gradual descent to North Main street.
A vlow which can be only descrlliod
as magnificent will be obtainable
from every part of the drive. The
timbered portions and the fact that
it is on the shady side of the canyon
will make the drive an ideal cool
wa'k on the hottest summer day.
When completed the two drives will
together form one wonderful skyline
rirfva ornlinH AalilnnI
which will
. ,
have no equal.
Boys who go hunting In the vicin
ity of Bear creek should be careful
where they Bhoot. Some people were
fishing In the creek the other day
when a bullet came whistling through
the water very near to the fishing
shooting.
