Ii rToday's Mela Prices njlfviV flrfY A1 LiYV" M P. M. CITY EDITION N I
I nearby, $28.00 $28.50; June and law ST. ",J ' ' . 17 - WEATHER Utah: Increasing -K
I1 7 00$27.50. ,atCr f ) .ZJ " Cloudiness With Rain In West Por- . W
" " tlon Tonight or Tuesday; Not Much ' '
, - " -n , - , . --..-,-,r. . . . - Change In Temperature. Ki
HAS THE LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTY. i If
'Irlrtvlxth Year No. 68. Prim. m 7, 7 " . I
P- FiveCenu. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, MONDAY' EVENING, MARCH 20, 1916. : Enld a, s.co. o . u,. Pcto,ra. . . I,
Wl
JSigns of Trickery by Carranza Forces I
Causing Excitement at Mexican Border
I CLASH BETWEEN VILLA AND CARRANZA
WES BELIEVED TO BE IMMINENT
!
f Bandit Fleeing Rapidly South Before Advancing Americans
i Hopes to Break Through Cordon Closing in at Laguna
i Babricora Region Carranza Detachment Has Once
u Allowed Outlaw to Escape Government
f Troops Passed by Americans at Casas
m Grandes Strangely Appear at Juarez,
SI, Opposite El Paso in Persh-
X ing's Rear.
'3 i
I El Paso, Texas, March 20. Carranza
f troops stationed at Casas Grandes, and
v other points in that section at the
j time General Pershing began his
march Into Mexico, now are located at
I Juarez, opposite El Paso and in the
I rear of General Pershing's columns,
U was authoritatively stated today.
No reason has been assigned for
the transfer of troops from poIntB in
land to the border.
Villa Allowed to Escape.
From reliable sources, it is stated
also, that in one instance a Carranza
detachment allowed Villa to pass
J southward on receipt of a message
1 from the bandit leader that he was
pot warring against Mexico.
At Fort BIIsb today comment was
Withheld on the northward movement
cf Carranza troops, although it was
Understood in army circles that the
v- movement was not large.
General George Bell. Jr., command
ing the troops here said, however:
"There is not a reason on earth for
! anxiety in El Paso. The military is
i prepared to meet any emergency that
" taay arise."
", GeneraJ Bell's statement was dl-
' rected pfirtlcularly to reports of un-
easiness 'in the border situation here.
Great Uneasiness at Borden.
Rumors were spread through the
, l city that machine guns were to be
trained on points over the river. At
Fort BIIsb it was denied that any such
' action was contemplated. It was au
thoritatively declared that no reason
tiisted for It.
Tie military has taken only such
precautions, it is understood, as would
be compatible with the policy of pre
paredness applied to the entire border
by MaJof--General Frederick Funston.
Guns at Strategic Points.
Guns already placed have been
moved to points where they would
1 have greater strategic value, If an
Emergency arose. The situation has
been thorougly gone over and pros
pective bases for machine guns and
J even heavier guns selected, if they
- were needed. It is suggested, how
ever, that these precautions have been
taken without any Idea that need for
lie guns would arise.
El Paso, Texas, Marcb 20. A clash
between the Villista and Carranza for
ces is Imminent, according to advices
received here today through General
Gavira, the Carranza commander at
Juarez.
Villa, fleeing south before the rap
idly advancing American troops, Is
; apparently trying to break through
the Mexican-American cordon closing
In about the Laguna-Babricora reg
: Ion. He is seeking a loop hole In the
direction of Namlqulpa through which
ho can escape into the mountains
around Guerrero and Santa Anna, tho
familiar ground where he commenced
his career as a bandit
The Carranzlstas are advancing
north from Namlqulpa, forty miles
from San Miguel Babricora. 20 miles
west of El Valle where Villa was re
. ported yesterday. As the bandit is
traveling south, a few hours should
1 decide whether he can evade the
troops of Gcenral Carranza or be forc
' ed into either -fighting them or doub
ling on hla tracks.
El Paso Filled With Rumors.
But the Interest in tho chase for
Villa is almost overshadowed on the
I border by anticipation of the repl of
General Carranza to the request of the
American government for permission
to use the Mexican railroads ls.1
, Paso, tho home of rumor, outdid ner-
' Belt today in the sensational reports
. that flashed from one end of tho town
to the other, dying out only to bo suc-
ceeded by others even more aiarm-
Ing.
L Railroads Urgently Needed.
It was Impossible to discover how
, these rumors started but they never
nacked believers. The most persist
ent and the most generally accepted
assorted that the transportation from
.Columbus to the -front, a distance oi
Probably more than 120 miles, had
Proved inadequate and that the rail
, roads wore urgently needed to ror
i ard supplies. Tho desert and Darren
mountain country over which tue
great quantities of material requesteu
r by the 5000 or 6000 American Boldlors
,: must travel on pack mules and wag
r ons, presents admittedly a tremendous
J Problem. This problem is greatly in
creased by the fact that most, if not
! all, of the forage for the American
horses must be forwarded from the
base. Americans, long residents in
Chihuahua, say it would be Impossible
for the corn and oats -fed horses of the
United States cavalry to subsist on
the food that a Mexican pony thrives
upon. They point to the fact that Gen
eral Pershing has already lost some
of his mounts as proof of this.
Excitement Grows In Juarez.
Junrez and El Paso preserved the
same air of outward calm today that
has marked them since the troops of
the United States crossed the inter
national line but there was an air of
expectancy everywhere and a strong
undercurrent of excitement that seem
ed to grow as the day progressed.
Groups of Mexicans and Americans,
carefully segregated, were on even'
street corner and thronged the plazas
on either side of the river eagerly
listening to and discussing each rumor
as It arrived, the rumors apparently
have floated out of the clear sun
shino. Villa has doubled east and south
to Namiquipa, according to a tele
gram received here by General Gavira
at Juarez. He reports that Carran
zista troops are advancing from the
south while tho Americans are contin
uing their march from the north In
an effort to close the net around the
bandit.
After leaving El Vallo where he had
abandoned thirty of his wounded, Vil
la turned directly west to Babricora,
said Gavira, who explained that he
had learned the Babricora where Villa
was reported yesterday was San Mig
uel Babricora and not the Babricora
near tho lake of that name, some
miles further to the south on Mrs.
Phoebo Hearst's ranch.
San Miguel Babricora Is about 20
miles west of El Valle. From that
point Villa made a sudden twist and
struck toward Namiquipa, forty miles
south.
Americans In Hot Pursuit
General Gavira knows nothing of
the American troops except that they
are hard on the chase. Nor has ho
any details of the Carranza troops
co-operating in the movement.
Colonel Cano was the closest to
Villa at last reports, as his advance
posts came In sight, but without be
ing in conflict, with Villa's fleeing
rear guard at El Valle.
No Trains Leave Juarez.
No train has left Juarez tor Casas
Grandes since yesterday and none is
expected to leave today or tomorrow,
it is said. The question of sending
American supplies over the lino has
not been brought personally to Gavira
by the American authorities but is, he
says, a matter of negotiation with
General Carranza.
nn
MORE TROOPS
REACH COLUMBUS
Additional Forces Evidently
Preparing to Follow Persh
ing's Expedition Into
Mexico Shortly.
SERIOUS FOOD PROBLEM
Large Motor Trucks Ready
for Orders More Hospital
and Signal Units to Start.
ColumbUB, N. M., March 20. In
creased activity on the part of the
troops stationed here and the arrival
during the night of a number of
troop and supply trains indicated to
day that additional forceB, shortly
will be on their way to augment the
punitive American expeditionary force
now in the field in northern Mexico.
In addition to tho troops which de
trained here, a large part of which
were cavalry, many passed on
through, bound, apparently for Bome
points westward along tho border.
Soldiers were kept busy throughout
the day preparing combat and hospital
trains and carrying equipment to tho
field force.
One of the problems which the com-
mlssary department at the military
base has been striving desperately to
solve is that of supplies with which
to feed the troops. For several years
i the internal strife in Mexico prac
tically has stifled the agricultural in
terests of that district in Mexico
through which the American troops
are believed to be passing. As a re
sult, neither food for tho men nor
forage for the animals can be ob
tained in Mexico and must bo trans
ported from here.
Eig Motor Trucks Ready.
The large motor trucks, the equip
ping of which has occupied military
and civilian mechanics for two days,
were ready for service today, their
drivers asserting that they were
awaiting orders to move south. The
additional hospital and signal units
also were said to be ready for field
service.
Other indications that a number of
the detachments on station here ex
pect to mhove shortly were the In
creased amount of outgoing mail han
dled by the local postoffice and the
large demands on the part of tho sol
diers for baths. The only bath tub
thirty-five cents a half hour Is made
was kept busy all day yesterday and
far into the night and the proprietor
asserted that he had reservations
enough to keep his tub busy all day
today.
Wireless Kept Busy.
Major W. R. Sample, commandant
at the military field base here, was
kept in communication with General
Pershing's forces by means of the
army wireless, but clinging tenacious
ly to the censorship ruling ho refused
to make public any information re
ceived. Instructions have been issued
that not only communications sent
out by newspaper correspondents
must be censored, but also that those
of officers and men of tho army and
of residents of Columbus must bo
l.assed upon. All Incoming telegraph
ic messages also are read and ap
proved by the military censor before
delivery.
Hurried preparations were begun to
day for a cantonment hospital. The
hospital Is to co-operate with the field
hospital and ambulance companies
now with the expeditionary force and
with the base hospital at El Paso.
Careful Hospital Preparations.
According to Lieutenant Colonel E.
B Frlck, in charge of the medical
corps every preparation is being made
to care speedily for the injured.
Nor has the possibility of members
of the expedition becoming infected
with the diseases which have follow
ed in the wake of the civil war In
Mexico, been overlooked. Every sol
dier accompanying the punitive ex
peditionary force has been vaccinated
agains'. smallpox and given the army
prophylaxis treatment to prevent ty
phoid fever. Especial attention also
is being given by army medical offl
ceis to prevent outbreaks of typhus,
which has been prevalent recently
throughout the southern republic.
It iB known here that the medical
offlceis who accompanied the troops
are taking thorough sanitary meas
ures at each stopping place and that
all water supplies are being tested
for traces of poison.
Work Continues Unceasingly.
No interruption of concentration
marked the passing of Sunday in
Columbus. The troops were kept so
busilv engaged in preparations for
eventualtles that even religious serv
ives were impossible. It was point
ed out, however, that there were no
chaplains in camp, all the available
religious officers having been taken
with tho expedition.
Aeroplanes Practice Flights.
The aeroplane squad was kept busy
throughout tho early part of the day
making practice flights about the
camp. There was no indication, how
ever, as to when tho planes will
leave to join the troops in the field.
A number of radiograms wero re
ceived over tho army wireless.
Among these were the first news dis
patches from correspondents with the
force. Although these had been cen
sored by General Pershing they wore
recenfored here, and relayed directly
to the news organizations, tho corre
spondents stationed hero being re
fused permission to examine them.
Five additional correspondents to
day were accredited to tho expedition
ary force and left Immediately, under
the escort of an army lieutenant, to
join the troops.
uu
CARRANZA ASKS
MORE DETAILS
"Washington, March 20. General
Carranza today replied to tho Ameri
can government's request for use of
Mexican railroad lines for movement
of supplies to tho punitive expedition
with a request for more complete in
formation of exactly what the war de
partment wants. General Carrnnza's
reply was sent to President Wilson.
Tho information he asks will bo furnished.
PROMINENT FIGURES
IN HUNT FOR VILL4
r't 4sffP v 5Bi' Ib yy$7"
Col. Edwin St. John Greble.
He is now in command of the Sixth
field artillery, a part of the force
puarding- Douglas, Arizona, one of
the towns for which apprehension is
felt because of the threatening atti
tude of the Mexicans just across th
international boundary line.
MEXICAN RAILWAY
Refusal of Carranza to Permit
Use of Roads by U. S.
Troops Will Embarass
Operations.
BOUND TO BE CRISIS
Granting of Request Will Be
Seriously Misconstrued and
Exploited by Enemies
of De Facto Chief.
El Paso, Texas, March 20. The
railroad problem over shadowed
everything else here in the Mexican
situation today. The reply of General
Carranza to the request of tho United
States government for permission to
uso the railroads wes expected to bo
sent forward to Washington today.
A refusal will embarrass tho opera
tions of tho American troops while
tho granting of the request would be
bound to be seriously misconstrued
by a considerable section of the
people and to be exploited by the
enemies of General Carranza.
Tho expectedly rapid advance of tho
expeditionary column under General
Pershing has forced tho railroad ques
tion to an issue. Americans familiar
with tho country into which the col
umns are now entering assert that it
is imperative that the railroads be
placed at their disposal for the bring.
Ing up of supplies.
Dr. I. J. Bush, formerly chief sur
geon of Madero's army, asserted to
day that tho speedy transportation
facilities wero essehtlal to further
progress by tho American soldiers.
Americans Face Difficulties.
The American forces are reported
at Galaona, said, Dr. Bush. "Twenty
miles south of there Is El Vallo and
from that point the only practicable
way of bringing up supplies is by
railroad. The valley converges here
into a narrow, deep gorge in which
about 2,000 people live. Tho territory
in which Villa probably will remain
Is embraced in an imaginary line be
tween Chihuahua and Minaca, with
tho Mexican Central railroad on one
side and tho Sierre Madre on the
other. Ills soldiers have tho advant
age over the Americans In that they
will travel light with only a few days'
phovlsions and are seasoned men well
ablo to withstand the hardships of
mountnln campaigning in that cli
mate." Villa Spreading Stories.
Dr. Bush said that he uo no doubt
that Villa was spreading stories of
his wonderfudl victories over tho
Americans, of how he had captured
Texas and that Carranza had gone
over to tho United States. It would
be easy, he said, for him to mako
the ignorant peons among whom he Is
operating, believe tho wildest stories.
Another serious situation has been
caused by the action of General Cal
les, military-governor of Sonora, in
dolanding that tho La Colorado
Mining company of Now York re-open
their mino at Hermosille at once.
General Calles has wired the New
York offices of the company that if
tho mine is not re-opened immediately
ho will take it over and run It.
The property Is Bald to bo a very
rich gold mine and formerly employed
1,000 Mexicans, according to General
Calles. He declared today that he
had no intention of confiscation the
mine but that the Mexicans were suf
fering through being thrown out of
employment and that he intended to
put them back to work. The gover
nor said that the La Colorado com
pany was the only one that had sus
pended operations in Sonora and that
there was no reason for their action
as he could and would give them
ample protection.
oo
PREDICTS WAR
CANNOT LAST
Portuguese Minister Returns
From Berlin Says Finan
cial Situation in Empire
Is Very Bad.
STILL PLENTY OF MEN
German Government Desires
to Avoid Break With United
States at All Costs.
Lisbon, Portugal, March 20, via
Pans, 5-50 a. m. Dr. Sldlhio Paes,
Portuguese minister to Germany since
the establishment of the republic, who
left Berlin after tho break betwen
Germany and Portugal, arrived in Lis
bon last night.
In an interview Dr. Paes alluded to
the controversy between Germany
and America over the submarine issue
and declared he was convinced that
tho German government desired at
all costs to avoid a break with the
United States.
Dr. Paes said the financial situation
in Germany was very bad and he pre
dicted that the war would not last
beyond 1917 A lack of men has not
yet made Itself felt, he added.
WAR WITH THE
Sinking of Holland's Finest
Steamship Creates Critical
Situation Between Ger
many and Dutch
Government.
The Hague, March 10, via London,
o:25 p. m. Tho press of the Nether
lands. In discussing the sinking of tho
liner Tubantia, refers to the possibili
ties of war between Germany and
Holland.
The Amsterdam Handelsblad after
discussing uselessness of such a con
flict and considering the many ties
between the two countries, said:
"Nevertheless, nothing would bo
more damaging to our independence
and national existence than the con
viction gaining ground that we are
unprepared to shed our blood for tho
defense of our rights and indepen
dence' The engineer, De Groot, of the Tu
bantia now makes the statement that
an hour and a half after leaving the
ship he saw a submarino of foreign
build.
uo
FRENCH OCCUPY
THREE VILLAGES
Forces of Central Powers and
Entente Allies Are Face to
Face North of Saloniki.
London, March 20, 9:30 a. m. A
largo French column with light artil
lery from the Saloniki entrenched
camp attacked and occupied tho vil
lages of Maclkovo, Karabarah and Ko-
zuna, which had Deen entered by Tou
ton and Bulgarian forces, according to
a Reuter dispatch from Saloniki dated
March 18. Tho French had only a
few casualties.
Owing to tho encroachments of tho
Teuton allies Into Greek territory and
tho consequent, advance of the French,
tho neutral frontier zone which' had
been agreed upon between tho Greek
and Bulgarian governments Is now
eliminated.
Forces of the central powers and of
the entente allies are faco to face,
the dispatch adds, and shelling, snip
ing and grenade throwing are in pro
gress In the neighborhood of the
nbovo mentioned villages, about 30
miles north of Saloniki, as on tho
other fronts whore tho advorsary for
ces aro in contact '
GERMANS CONTINUE TO TORPEDO I I
SHIPS OF NEUTRAL COUNTRIES I
1 Ii
Great Aerial Battles Are Fought Between French and German I '
Flying Squadrons Fighting at Verdun Again Slackened I J
Russians Renew Activities and French at Saloniki I '
Capture Three Villages War Conference to 1
Open in Paris Delegates From Allied ;
Nations Gather to Consider Joint Kj
Military Campaign. Hi
.. . I
Galveston, Texas, March 20. Immediate peace is in i
sight," is one sentence in a cablegram received this morning m
from London by a Galveston shipping firm. The cablegram I m
cancelled arrangements which had been made through the Gal- K
veston house for chartering a considerable amount of tonnage I H
and gave as the reason for this action the prospect for immedi- V
ate peace in Europe. H
Paris, March 20, 2:40 p. m. German
forces .have bombarded Malancourt
and an attack made by them on the
French positions at Cote de Poivre
has resulted in failure, according to
the announcement made by the
French war office this afternoon.
There has been intermittent bom
bardment in the region of Vaux.
Tho text of the statement says:
"West of the Meuse, the enemy has
delivered a bombardment of consider
able violence south of Malancourt
East of the river, after a preparatory
artillery fire, tho enemy delivered
against our positions at Cote de Poi
vre a small attack which resulted in
complete failure. There has been an
Intermittent bombardment in the reg
ion of Vaux.
"In the Woevro there was fairly
spirited cannonading at Les Epargos.
"At about four o'clock this morning,
English, French and Belgian aviators
bombarded the aviation field at Uout
tave, east of Ostend, Nineteen French
aviators took part. All returned."
Berlin. March 20, via London, 4:25
p. m. An attack made by French
troops on the village of Vaux, north
east of Verdun, was repulsed with
heavy losses, the war office announc
ed today.
The violent attacks of the Russians
in the lake region on tho southern
part of the eastern front wore contin
ued. Tho Russians charged repeat
edly with strong forces but were beat
en back with large losses.
The text of the statement follows:
"Favored by good conditions for ob
servations there was very pronounced
activity on tho part of artillery and
neroplanes on both sides. In the
Meuso sector and In the plain of the
Woevro artillery engagements con
tinued especially violent yesterday.
French Make Fruitless Attack.
"To prevent us from pushing our
lines farther northward toward the
defensive positions of the enemy in
the neighborhood of Fort Douaumont
and the village of Vaux, the French
delivered a fruitless attack with parts
of a division recently brought up
against the village of Vaux. They
wero repulsed with heavy losses.
"In an aerial fight. Lteutenant Bar
on von Althaus brought down his
fourth aeroplane, over enemy lines,
west of LIhons, while Lieutenant Bo
elke brought down his twelfth ma
chine over the forest of Forges. The
enemy lost three other aeroplanes,
ono in an aerial encounter near Culsey
west of tho -forest of Forges and two
others from tho fire of our anti-aircraft
guns.
Rusa'ans Attack Repeatedly.
"Eastern front: Regardless of their
heavy losses, the Russians attacked
repeatedly vesterday with strong for
ces on both sides of Postavy and be
tween Narocz and Drisviapy lakes.
The attacks were entirely fruitless.
In tho neighborhood of Vidzy Gorman
troops advanced and drove back some
onemy divisions which wore still at
tempting to maintain thoir position
closo to our front after their attack
of yosterdav morning. Ono officer
and 280 men belonging to seven dif
ferent regiments were captured."
London, March 20, 12:10 a- m. The
Austrians have been steadily continu
ing their march in Albania and have
now arrived beforo tho advanced Ital
ian positions at Avlona, says a dis
patch to the Exchange Telegraph com
pany from Athens. They have not,
however, it is said, begun an attack.
Avlona is 50 miles south of Durazzo
on the Adriatic sea. It Is the last
Albanian seaport in the hands of tho
Albanians and Italians.
Berlin, March 20. Wireless to Say
villo. An official decree was issued
today to the effect that minors on
gnged In gainful occupations shall not
receive more than 18 marks weekly
of their earnings, together with a sur
plus amounting to not more than one-
j
third of the amount paid in excess l
of IS marks. The residue must be de- - - j f
rosited in savings banks, not to be
withdrawn during the war. i
. I
Bulgarian Premier In Danger. ,
London, March 20, 3:55 p. m. An '
unsuccessful attempt to assassinate i. i f
Premier Radoslavoff of Bulgaria is if
reported in an Exchange Telegraph ty
dispatch from Rome. t
Rumania to Join Allies.
Athens, March 18, via Paris, March , ijj
20, 10:55 a. m, The impression pre- i
vails in high political circles at Ath- ,
ens that Rumania shortly will aban
don her policy of neutrality in favor i 1
of the entente allies.
Should Rumania enter tho war, . j
Greek officials would be placed in '
an embarrassing position, the force j
of which already is felt i i
Tho feeling of allied diplomatists t j
seem to bo that if Greece enters tho J I
war she will have to do so on her ' f ,
own initiative and with no conditions j 13
with respect to territorial compensa- ' (fj
tlon. ' l
I ! 1
London, March 20, 2:10 p. m. Cap- I X
tain Dewar, son of Lord Dewar, sen- K
ator of the College of Justice of Scot- m
land, has been killed in action. He V
was champion lightweight boxer of I Q
the public schools. ' 1
London, March 20j 1:10 a, m. Be-
tween March 1 and March 18, nine-
teen hostile ships of the entente al- i
lies aggregating 40,000 tons have i
been sunk, says Router's Amsterdam 5
correspondent crediting the state- j
ment to a well informed source in
Berlin. j U
Review of War Situation. f
A notable aerial raid was carried i U
out early today on the German sea- I
plane station at Zeebrugge, Belgium, j, 1
and tho aerodrome near there, a WM
squardon of Co allied machines aero- t . BR
planes and seaplanes making tho at- i Hi
tack. The British official announce- BR
ment declares that considerable dam- Wm-
age appeared to have been done by 'II
the bombs dropped. ' mn
Fighting about Verdun has again H
slackened, according to today, Paris l
statement, the only infantry attack Ifl
reported being an unsuccessful one by J mfi
the Germans on the French positions , lift
on Pepper hill. Ijlj
There Is renewed activity in the I KB
Balkans north of Saloniki, a French III
column having advanced from tho en- I III
trenched camp and occupies villages I Wfl
near the Greek border which Teutonic ! . WM
and Bulgarian foces and entered, ac- , IHf
cording to news agency advices from ! ' K1I
Saloniki. 11
A war conference of probable mo- ( B
mentous importance is about to open M
in Paris where military and political j Bv
representatives of tho entente allies U
are gathering. I H
Berlin, March 20. Wireless to Say- J H
ville. New regulations under which U
each person in Berlin, on presentation 8 ( KI
of cards, will be permitted to pur- fl
chase 135 -grams (about five ounces) JH
of butter weekly, and ten pounds of j H
potatoes each twelve days, went into W
effect today. I H
OGDEN ID WEBER I
HSiEH 1
During the past few days, both Og- H
den and Webor rivers have increased j Sj
in volume and today tho streams aro jH
running almost bank full. j H
Thcro is 18 Inches of snow on the JBl
level near Iluntsvillo and warm weath- ijH.-
er may cause flood waters. Some of j 'jwj
the residonts of Ogdon Valley are of j til!
tho opinion that, tho Ogdon river will J lL
overflow. lvf j
f 1 THE PUBLIC IS CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND A rUniPTI ,,,- By CLARECE C EATON, C. S. B. Member of the Christian Science Board of 1
m 1 . ip nv-i jrt rip rT W "iri iilrmi 1 1 m M Ciii WtfF Lectureship of The Mother Church The First Church of Christ, Scientist, In Boston Mass 1 jH
II F R El i JLfjJLlJKJt Oil Vl HmlfeJ 1 Irmll t3VIL.lvL. UNDER AUSPICES OF FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST, OGDEN, UTAH 1
II Church Edifice, 24th Street and Monroe Ave. Tuesday, March 21st, 1916. 8:00 P.M. 1 ;
B T VI 1
K ' i i jflBi II
