THE BARKE DAILY TIMES
HAUUK, VERMONT, MONDAY, MAKCII 20, 1910.
PRICE, OXE CENT.
VOL. XX NO. 4.
v
t
. ft "rr""f materially auacKcmti uuring me tmu"
L U L ll I N U l I I H I of the dBV according to the otlicial slate
rKrlMl fl llriLI L.L."t hy the French war olliee
I IIUI ivi lai)t ni ,t No ,tim.)t t0 attack was
GERMAN RUSH
ON PEPPER HILL'S:
Assault on French Positions
North of Verdun Was the
Only Infantry Engage
ment Attempted, Accord
ing to Paris Official An
nouncement This After
noon VIOLENT ARTILLERY j
FIRE AT MALANCOURTj
There Is Renewed Activity
on the Saloniki Front, the
French Column Having
Advanced Beyond tre En
trenched Camp and Occu
pied Some Villages
L'ht. Sit attemi
muile by the (ioniums. The text of the
statement follows:
"North of Khciins our artillery carried
out a destructive tins on the enemy
trenches at Xeuvillo and the Godnt farm.
wan marked activity of our bat
in the region of Yillo Au Hoi.
In the recion to the north of Verdun
the bombardment Blackened appreciably
during the course of the day. The ene
my made no attempt to attack.
'Northeast of St. Mihiel. our heavy ar
tillery cannonaded rcvictualling depots of
the enemr at Varvinay. There is noth
ing to report on the rest of the front
"Adjutant Navarre brought down his
seventh German aeroplane in the region
of Verdun. The hostile machine fell In
sido our lines."
THREE MORE SHIPS
HAVE BEEN SUNK
British Vessel Lost Part of Crew, Nor
wegian Lost One Man and Danish
Steamer Has Three Missing.
I London. March 20. The sinking f the
Norwegian ateamer Langelie with the
loss of one life and of the British steam
er Port Dalhousie was announced to-day.
Seven men of the Dalhousie were landed;
the remainder of the crew are missing.
The Danish steamer Skodsborg has
been sunk. Three of her crew are miss
ing) 17 were saved.
FIERCE
ATTACK
BY AIR
Sixty-Five British, French,
and Belgian Flying Ma
chines Made a Concerted
Assault on German Sea
planes and Aerodrome in
Belgian Coast Town of
Zeebru gge
MUCH DAMAGE DONE,
BRITISH BELIEVE
9,270 RUSSIAN DEAD
In Lake Narooz Region, According to
German Report.
London, March 20. With the slacken
ing of the fighting around Verdun the
Russians have started a big offensive
The fiirhtin-r about Verdun has acain i movement against me i.ermans on uie
i..i.i a-..-,i;., , iUria enntern front. A raid by German aero
statement, the onlv infantry attack re-! P'"n' on the Mat coast of England and
Germans cm French position on Pepper i Jen '". the sinking of a trench
, .,, ... . . ... . . .. 'torpedo boat destroyer by a submarine
ii miri.fi ill I ill. lonreMM. ii.iiieiv I . .
tivity has been intermittent, reaclinig
considerable violence, however, in the vi
cinity of Malancourt on the west bank
of the Meuse.
There is renewed activity in the Bal
kans, north of Saloniki, the French col
umn advanced from an entrenched camp
and occupied villages near the (Jreek bor
der which the Teutonic and liulgariun
forces had entered, according to news
agency dispatches from Saloniki. Tho
i neutral frontier zone has been elimi-
: nuted, it appears, and the forces of the
entente and central powers are face to
face along that part of the front.
A war conference of probable momentous
importance is about to open in France,
where military anil political representa
tives of the entente allies are gathering.
The joint policies to be pursued by the
entente in the next period of the war
will be decided upon by the conference,
which will be presided over by Premier
Briand of France.
in the Adriatic and the reported torpe
doing of an Austrian hospital Bhip by an
allied under-water boat are recorded in
official and unoflicial communications.
Berlin chronicles an attack of great
violence by the Russians around Dris
wiaty lake and Lake Karouz, but says
the Russians were repulsed with great
losses, 9,270 Russian dead having been
counted in the Luke Narooz region.
FRENCH DESTROYER
SUNK BY SUBMARINE
47 Officers and Men Were Lost When the
Renaudin Was Sunk in the
Adriatic on Saturday.
Paris. March 20. The French torpedo
boat destroyer Renaudin has been sunk
in the Adriatic by a submarine. Three
officers and 44 men of the crew were lost.
Two officers and 34 of the crew were
saved.
The minister of marine made the fol
lowing official announcement last, night
regarding the loss of the destroyer.
"The squadron boat Renaudin was
sunk in the Adriatic by an enemy sub
marine on the morning of March IS.
Three officers, among whom were the
commandant and second officer, and 44
seamen were lost. Two officers and 34
,eamn were rescued by a French torpe
do boat which accompanied the Renau
din." The destroyer Renaudin was built in
1013. She measured 75b" tons and was
2o6 feet in length. She was a 30-knot
boat but in her trials had developed 32
knots.
ATTEMPT TO KILL
PROVED FAILURE
Rome Dispatch Received in London Says
That Effort Was Made to Assassi
nate Premier Radoslavoff
of Bulgaria.
London, March 20. An unsuccessful
attempt to assassinate Premier Rado-
slavoff of Bulgaria is reported in an Ex
change Telegraph dispatch from Rome.
FRENCH SEIZE IW0 TOWNS.
Attackers Hurled Bombs
Which Averaged to Weigh
200 Pounds, and All the
Allies' Machines Returned
Safely, Although One Bel
gian Officer Was Injured
There were no casualties. The town bad
only a few minutes' warning of the ap
proach of tint aircraft. Mont of the in
habitant rushed into the street, where
they hail an excellent view of a fight in
the air between the raiders and an Eng
lish air squadron which ruse in pursuit.
With I lie hiiI of a telescope it was pos
silile to distinguish a great number of
machines, twisting and turning in every
direction in their tnanTuvre to get
quickly to the required altitude to rout'
but the invaders.
An this strange Sunday afternoon en
tertainment proceeded, the people, re-
gardless of danger, flocked to street cor
ncrs, open place and to the water front,
One of the machines In the air suddenly
turned toward Deal and flew across the
town, its passage being marked by the
explosion of a mi in tier of bomb. I lie
lirst three bombs fell at virtually the
same moment, whereupon half the crowd
in the open places fled to ilielte.'. Later
three other bomb fell.
MAY ISSUE $250,000 STOCK.
Montpelier & Bane Light & Power Co. to
Retire That Amount Bonds.
Permission has been given by the Ver
mont public service commission to the
Montpelier A Barre Light &, Power com
pany to issue $2."iO,ImK) 0 per cent pre
ferred stock, the same to be exchanged
for a like amount of first refunding
mortgage 5 per cent 30-year convertible
gold bonds. A certificate granting such
permission was issued by the commission
as the result of a hearing held at Mont
pelier on March 10. .
I he commission hints that under the
provisions of the mortgage securing the
bonds the holders thereof are given the
option on and after March 1, 1918, to
convert the bonds into fl per cer.t pre
ferred stock at par; that there are $250,.
000 of such bonds; that the bond? were
legally issued and that it is necessary
Washington, 1). C, March 20. General
Carranza has formally protested against
American troops occupying Casas Grande
for the company to issue the stock inj" their pursuit of Villa, and the Ameri
CARRANZA'S
PROTEST MET
PROMPT REPLY
Head of De Facto Govern-
. ment Against Occupation
of Casas Grandes by the
American Troops
SPECIFIC ORDER GIVEN
TO PREVENT, SAYS U. S.
Washington Government
Notified Carranza That
the Troops Pursuing Villa
Will Not Occupy Casas
Grandes or Any Other
City or Town in Mexico
nition and even a few machine guns aro
hidden in or around EI Paso U a report
that has many believers hero, although
It is scouted by the police and mili
tary officials. There is, however, no ques
tion that uneasiness Is growing here over
the attitude unit temper of the Mexicans.
The extraordinary outward calm which
has existed since the American troop
crossed the border is' considered the re
verse of reassuring by Americans who
are familiar with Mexico and the Mexi
can people.
THINK VILLA HAS RUN
INTO A GOOD TRAP
WAS VETERAN
PROBATE JUDGE
William W. Blodgett
Pawtucket Was Na
tive of Randolph
of
HAD BEEN JUDGE
FOR 37 YEARS
.o
Sr jr. His Early Life in Ver,
, ' sf nont and Gained His
Education Here
order to meet the mortgage .obligation. Iran government has replied that the
Therefore, the commission gives per- ; troops have been ordered specifically not Gen. Luis Gutierrz, Carranza 's field chief,
mission for this sole purpose and it stip-jto occupy Casas Grandes or any other 'declares that he holds all the passes to
Rapid Advance of American Troops and
Cooperation of Carranta are Said to
to Have Accomplished It
El Paso, Tea., March 20. Francisco
Villa has been driven into a trap by the j
rapid advance of the American troops,
according to the information received
yesterday in wireless dispatches from I
the front and in telegraphic dispatches
to Gen. Gabriel .Gavua, the Carranza -.
commander at Juarez. ' I
Everything seems now to depend on , , ,,
the ability of the Carranza garrisons to ' 'V. T ,
hold their end of the net. Un tliree J',,,tiD " J""
sides the bandit chief is hemmed in by r"", " 1"-' juugo
strong Carranza columns, while on tho, 111 V'f.i " ' toly,
fourth the Americans are driving with l". 'ca,": .
amazing speed. . " '"lurop jsio.igctt was bom
n r ..... .... in Run. 1, tilth Vf !,.!., u lu.il ..
Villa wag reported in the Uabricora ! -" ',. ' 7 1
lake region on the ranch of Mrs. Phoebe n ami irene (uicKinson) mougeu.
Hearst, which he has ravaged several !e was Kr.adua'J f,om University of
times in the past. Ilabricora is about 55 Ver'"u V . U recelveu tllu dt're0
mil i,ti, f ca!i.im urlipmom. .rli..n of LL. D. from that institution iu VMHi.
of the American expeditionary force has p uegan the practice of law in Paw
arrived and is pushing forward at the tucket in ISjO. He was annually elected
rate of 33 miles a da v. A few miles to 'judge of probate for 37 years. In poli
the west of the bandifs position is Kai- Uva he w Republican and in religious
nnquipa, which la held by a powerful r--"-"-"- " 'wuymmii.
(arranza garrison. On the east are the
frowning barriers of the .Sierra Madre
mountains, burring the way to Sonora.
London, March 20. Sixty-five aero
planes to-day bombarded the Belgian
coast town of Zeebrugge, and all of the
machines returned.
The official statement regarding the
attack says:
"In the early hours this morning
combined forces of approximately
50 British, French and Belgian aero-
danes and seaplanes, accompanied'
y 15 other fighting machines, at
tacked German seaplanes stationed
at Zeebrugge and an aerodrome at
Ifouttave, near Zeebrugge. Consid
erable damage appeared to have been
done. The machines fired an average
of 200-pound bombs. All the ma
chines returned safely. One Belgian
officer is reported to have been se
riously wounded."
ulates that "if said corporation does so towns or cities in Mexico,
issue any of said stock in exchange for The state department to-dav had not
HOSPITAL SHIP TORPEDOED.
One Sailor Drowned and Two Red Cross
Nurses Injured.
Berlin, March 20,by wireless to Say
ville. The Austro-Hungarian hospitul
bhip Elektra was torpedoed Saturday in
the Adriactic sea by an entente allied
submarine according to the Overseas
News agency. One sailor was drowned
and two 1W Cross nurses were badly
w ounded.
The statement of the news agency fol
lows :
"Vienna reports that the hospital ship
Elektra of the Austro-Hungarian Ked
Cross bound from the Xorth Adriatic
to southern Dalmatia was torpedoed
March la by an enemy submarin
Drove the Germans from Them Into Bul
garian Territory.
Paris, March 20. French troops have
occupied Hep and Mayadat on the fron
tier of Greece and Serbian Macedonia,
after pursuing a German contingent into
Bulgarian teeritory opposite the Giev
geiit sector, says a Havas dispatch from
Athens dated Saturday. The losses on
each side were about 30 killed.
The French forces arrested 40 peasants
on charges of espionage, says the dispatch.
40 CASUALTIES IN
GERMAN AIR RAID
NO NEW LOANS FOR ALLIES.
According to Information Given By J. P.
Morgan.
Xew York, March 20. J. P. Morgan,
head of the blinking house of J. 1 Mor
gan & Co., who arrived here yesterday
from Liverpool on the steamship Phila
delphia, reiterated the denial recently
issued from this office here that a new
credit against American securities for
the entente allies, said to have been
mobilized in London had been arranged
by him.
He asserted that he knew of no new
loan to the allies being contemplated
now and asserted that the resources cre
ated by the last loan were not exhausted.
supporting his assertion of reference to! bombs were dropped on West gate,
the steadiness of the exchange market. "The total casualties so far reported
As to the reported mobilizing in London ; are : Killed, three men. one woman and
of American securities held in Great Brit- ! ve children; injured, 17 men, five wom-
Bcmbs Dropped on Several Places on
Coast of Kent By Four Machines
Canadian Hospital at Rams
gate Sunk.
London, March 20. Nine persons were
killed and 31 injured in a raid of four
German seaplanes over the east coast of
Kent yesterday, it was announced offi
cially last night. A British airman
brought down one raider over the sea,
j the German observer being killed.
The official etatement on the raid reads
as follows:
"Four Gorman seaplanes flew over
east Kent to-day. ' The first pair ap
peared over Dover at a height of 5,000
to 6,000 feet, one at 1:57 p. in., the sec
ond at 2:02 p. m.
"The first dropped six bombs in the
harbor; then went northwest dropping
bombs on the town. ..The other raider,
after passing over Dover, appeared over.
Deal at 2:13 and dropped several bombs.
"The second pair appeared over Rams-
gate at 2:10. They dropped bombs on
the town. One of this pair went west,
tho fither north, pursued bv a British
aeroplane. One bomb is reported to have
been dropped on Margate.
The second mnchine appeared over
Westgate at 3:20. Here sev.ral of our
aeroplanes went up in pursuit. No
said bonds, it is hereby ordered to inline
diately cancel and retire said bonds re
ceived by it in exchange and on the 1st
day of July, 1016, and every six months
thereafter until said ftock is fully is
sued, to file with this commission a writ
received a reply to its request for the
use of Mexican railroads in transporting
supplies to the expeditionary forces.
Generally, the reports from Mexico to
day were of an optimistic character. Act
mg Secretary of State I oik denied em
ten return, signed by the president and j phatically tliat the government had an
treasurer and venned by their oaths, liable information of plots to bring
scum loiui us uoiiiKs uuuerims wt- about armed intervention. General Car
tifiente and stating the amount of the ran7a it u,.a i,.arnB1i t,,.dv. has been
stock so issued, the number nd face urgeJ by eome of hi cigest advisers
mine in inc iiuiiiih niTiivu III cuiiiusc : ,.fwar a lorio rounr.1 fop ho annrohen
therefor and that said -bonds have been
cancelled and retired."
sion of Villa.
ain and France. Mr. Morgan said:
I understand they expect to handle
en. nine children.
"As far as ascertained 48 liomba were
those securities as they have been doing ! dropped altogether. One bomb fell on
Lite l Hllltfllllll ntinuiiHl HI. la!llKlllP,
causing damage, but no casualties. Ma
terial damage done: Several houses, the
homes of artisans and cottages were
wrecked.
"Flight Commander Bone, royal naval
air service, in a single seater aeroplane.
I pursued one German seaplane 30 miles
drowned" and two Red Cross nurses were
hadiv injured.
"The Elektra was not unknown to the
enemy as a hospital ship and was provid
ed with the prescribed isible marks."
BRITISH LOST GROUND.
of
Germans Advanced in Region North
Vermelles.
Inrlin, via Ixnnlon, March 20. A suc
cessful attack against the British lines
ii- rth of Vernielli-s, in which the Germans
in the past and thev will be taken care
of in a way that will not hurt the mar
ket." The financier refused to discuss his
mission abroad or in what transactions
he lad been engaged. He declined also
to talk of a second appearance as a wit-
x e .1.. Tl -a i : I :
oe...r ,.. ,,.,,...,, '" 0nt to sea. whereafter an action lasting
committee to testify regarding the af-! ... ,,.,. , , ,
. 4L. T-i-.i . " i. o..:j t .-4.'" '"",-' 11- II.-
Tbe German machine was hit
imps am the nhsprvpr u-n Villpit "
asserted. According to a dispatch from Rsms-
Asked as to what impressions he had pHt)- the tw.0 r;rrman .planes which
gathered while in Europe as to the prog- j mlt , railI on tnat vnpf were st
ress of w ar, be smilingly said: ! tacked at sea by a French machine be-
"I am not a military man; hence I can- f ore reaching the coast. The seaplanes,
not discuss that question. I did not ob- j however, arrived over the town and
serve, however, sny signs of weakening, j dropped a number of bombs, one of
ine ':,. f IntarW.rnnnU Par.M Trail! 1 .
steamer stranded. One sailor wasi ., T t- .,i,; if i, r" . .
iv....M,..j. .... n imanv ti
BURIAL AT DANVILLE.
Mrs. Eliza M. Gray Died Yesterday at
Woodsvllle, N. H.
Wondsville. X. II.. Msrrh 20 frs.
regained ground they had lost in mine Eliza M. Gray, Rft'd 5 years, widow of
lijiimng on .nari'ii , n iiiiuuiutu j n- Andrew lirsv of -IIs Kiver, Vt.. died
tenia v bv the war ofhee as follows:
which killed a man and four children.
So far as can be ascertained the other
Ramsgatn caualties total oije woman
and eight children sliuhtly wounded.
Bomb Struck Motor Car.
The first bomb dropped in Hamsgate
fell squarely on a motor car. killing the
driver ami setting firp to the gasoline
tank. riece 01 tne homh new amonif
New Power Corporation Endorsed.
The public service commission has also
granted a certificate setting forth that
the' establishment and maintenance of
the Eastern Vermont Public Utilities
corporation will promote the general
good of the state. The signers of the
petition for such a certificate were r
Monroe Dver of New York City, W. C.
Clifford of Bethel, I. M. Frost of Rut
land, Albert A. Daniell of West Danville
and E. F. Clark of Groton. The capital
stock is 1200.0(H), divided into 2,000
shares and the principal office is at
Hardwick.
The purpose of the Eastern Vermont
Public I tilities corp ration, as set forth
in the articles of association are as fol
lows:
"1. To acquire bv purchase, lease or
otherwise, and bold land, riparian and
water rights and other real estate and
property in the towns of Barnet, Groton,
Rveirate, Stannard, Walden, Peacham
and Danville, in the county of Caledonia,
and in the town of Newbury, in the
county of Orange, and to acquire and
hold, develop and use water powers, and
to build, construct, maintain and operate
dams, storage basins, flumes, pipe lines,
power plants, power stations, hydraulic
works and all necessary equipment and
apparatus in said towns, for the purpose
of genetrating electrical energy for pow
er, heat, light and other similar pur
poses. "2. To construct, operate and main
tain pole lines on land or casements
acquired by purchase, lease or otherwise,
or on streets snd highways and all nec
essary distributing stations for the pur
pose of transmitting and distributing
electrical energy for power, light, heat
and other purposes in the towns of Dan
ville, Peacham, Barnet, Ryegate, Groton,
Stannard and Walden in the county of
Caledonia: Cabot and Woodbury in the
county of Washington; of Newbury,
Topsham, Orange, Corinth, Washington.
Chelsea, Tunbridge and Randolph in the
county of Orange; and of Bethel and
Koyalton In the county of Windsor.
"3. To generate, distribute and sell
electricity for power, light, heat and
other purposes in the sale of electricity,
persons residing in Vermont, municipal
corporations or persons doing business in
Vermont shall have preference, under
similar terms and conditions. The last
foregoing provision shall be considered
as a contract between the corporation ,
! and the state of ermont for the bene
fits of such inhabitants thereof as may
be hereafter affected.
"4. To issue bonds and notes and to
mortgage any or all of its prooerty for
the security of the same."
Sidetrack at Windsor.
The commission has granted to the
Central Vermont Railway company the
right to build a aiding for the Windsor ! the border.
Machine company at indsor, the cross
ing to be contructed under stipulations
set up by the commission. The siding
crosses River street in that village at
grade. .
VILLA DOUBLES
EAST AND SOUTH
AS NET CLOSES
Carranza Troops Are Advancing from
the South and American forces
Very Rapidly from the
' Northward.
El Paso, Tex., March 20. Villa has
doubled east and south of Kamiquipa,
according to a telegram received by lien
eral Gavira at Juarez to-day. He reports
that Carranza troops are advancing from
the south while Americans are contain
ing their march from the north in their
effort to close the net about the bandit,
The problem of granting the United
States permission to us the Mexican
railways to transport supplies to the
American troops pursuing V ilia over
shadowed everything else in the Mexican
situation to-day. The reply of Carranza
is expected to bo to Washington to-day.
Refusal will embarrass the operations of
the American troops, while the granting
of the request, it was declared, would be
seriously misconstrued bv a portion of
the Mexican people and would be exploit
ed bv the enemies of Carranza.
The unexpectedly rapid advance of the
expeditionary forces under Pershing has
forced the railroad question to an issue.
Dr. I. J. Bush, formerly chief surgeon of
the Madero army, asserted to-day that
speed transportation facilities is essen
tial toXhe further progress of the Ameri
cans. Bush said that no doubt Villa is
spreading stories of wonderful victories
over the Americans, of how he had cap
tured Texas and that (arranza had gone
over to the I'nited States. It would be
easy, he said, for Villa to make the ig
norant peons, among whom he is operat
ing, believe tho wildest stories.
MORE TROOPS ARRIVE
FOR MEXICAN POINTS
Most of Those Coming to Columbus, N.
are Cavalry and They Will Soon
Be Dispatched After Villa.
Columbus, K. M., March 20. Increased
activity on the part of troops stationed
here and the arrival during the night of
a number of troop and supply trains indi
cated to-day that additional forces short
ly will be on the way to augment the
American punitive expeditionary forces
now in the field in northern Mexico.
In addition to the troops which de
trained here, a large part of which was
cavalry, many passed through, bound ap
parently for some point westward along
Sonora.
To the south Villa's way is blocked by
the Carranza garrison at Madens, a town
of considerable importance as the head
quarters of the Madera company, limited,
an American concern which has vast lum
ber, mining and railroad interests.
On account of the importance of the
town an exceptionally heavy Carranza
force in eaid to hold it.
While Carranza and his military au
thorities have succeeded so far in avoid
ing any friction there is one serious crisis
which may arise any time. As the lines
of communication of the American forces
lengthen the problem of bringing up sup
plies becomes increasingly more press
ing. To grant the UnitedStates permission
to use the Mexican railroads for ship'
ping supplies, it is thought here, may be
misconstrued by many Mexicans. On the
other band a refusal would scarcely har
monize with the professed desire of the
Carranza government to cooperate in ev
ery way with the American authorities.
The arrival of this crisis is being anxious
ly awaited on both sides of the border.
WATERBURY TOWN CLERK DEAD.
WILD OKLAHOMA POLITICS.
AMMUNITION SMUGGLED IN.
Villa's Men are Not Likely to Run Short,
Says One Report.
El Paso, Tex., March 20. Ammunition
is being smuggled across the border into
Rival G. 0. P. Factions Try to Hold Con- Mexico daily, according to a statement
vention in Same Hall. made here yesterday from an authorita
tive source. The maker of the statement
Muskogee. Okla., March 20. Factional H8iXe the information in his posession to
rivalries made the Mu.skogP county Re- t,e government authorities. He refused
publican convention .,trday a scene of jto ajow hig name to be used.
James K. Fullerton Had Been Prominent
in Public Affairs.
Waterburv, March 20. Town Clerk
Fullerton, w-lio has been ill for some
time, passed away at his home on Main
street Sunday morning at 10 o'clock of
acute nephritis, with complications.
.lames Kendall rullertou was born in
Berlin Jan. 2. 1837. the son of Horatio F.
and Sophia (Jeffords) Fullerton. When
he was three months old, bis parents
moved to Waitsfield. There Mr. Fuller-
ton attended the public schools, taught
school and entered the mercantile busi
ness. At the age of 24 he moved to Wa
terbury and was for five years cashier
of the Waterbury National batik. In
1HC3 he married Sophia Burnliam of
Brookfield. In 1806 he entered the firm
of Richardson & Fullerton, merchants,
successors to Haines Richardson. In
this position he remained for 18 years,
selling out to Mr. Richardson. He then
became adjuster for the Vermont Mu
tual Fire Insurance company and on
March 3, 1896, he was elected town clerk,
a position which he has since held with
much credit. He has also been justice of
the peace for years, was town treasurer
for 15 years and village clerk for a long
line. He was re-ciectea town cutk ana
illairc clerk at the meetings this month,
although seriously ill at the time. Mr.
Fullerton bad been closely identified with
town affairs and will be greatly missed.
He is survived bv four children. .1.
Biirnham Fullerton, a merchant in il
lamantic. Conn.; Lena, wife of' James F.
Somerville; Henry H. Fullerton, a den
tist, and Dean S. Fullerton, assistant
own clerk, all of this town, mere are
Iso four grandchildren.
The funeral will be held Wednesday
fternoon at 2:30 o'clock.
In the jfoiiiK of Mr. Fullerton, ater-
bury loses another of her prominent men,
one who bad the interests of the town
at heart. With the family und immedi
ate friends the community mourns.
PICKED OUT HIS
0YN SENTENCE
William Bissett Thought That Two
Years in the State Prison Would Be
About Right for Him Mont
pelier Court Will Decide.
William Bissett, a resident of Bur
lington, arrested this forenoon bv Chief
of Police Connolly of Montpelier for
petty larceny, pleaded with Grand Juror
A. C. Theriault, who issued the warrant,
to change the charge to burglary so that
lie mignt be sentenced to the states
prison at Windsor for a couple of years.
The request was so unusual that the
grand juror decided he needed the day to
think it over and Bissett was committed
to the jail for safe keeping.
BUsett appeared at the police station
last evening and requested a night's
lodging, being one of the few who have
made such demands this season, and he
was accommodated by 'the police, being
assigned to a room operated by the city
for just such transients.
This forenoon the landlady, Mrs. Lu
pien, made a complaint tliat her lodger
had disappeared, taking with him several
articles of wearing apparel. Bissett was
easily located by Chief Connolly and ap
peared pleased to have been caught.
Taken before the grand juror he ex
pressed a dislike for the house of correc
tion and for the jail, but a decided pref
erence for Windsor as an abiding place.
At first he was of the opinion that a
year in prison would suffice but, later
said that he would not be adverse to
two years, drawing the line at that;
mark. He will probably be arraigmnl
to-morrow before Acting Judge Moody
on charge of petty larceny.
FUNERAL HELD IN BARRE
DIED IN WEBSTERVILLE.
For Miss Addie Richardson, Who Died in
Brooklyn.
The funeral of Miss Addie Richardson,
daughter of Mrs. Julia Richardson, whose
death occurred in Brooklyn, N. ., Thurs
day, was held at the home of Mr. and
Mrs, Clayton S. Meaker, 40 Jefferson
street, Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
The remains arrived in the city over the
Central Vermont railnwd Saturday even
ing, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. Mesk
er, who went to Brooklyn immediately
on receipt of the news of Miss Richard
son's death. Rev. J. B. Reardon, pastor
of the Barre Cniversalist church, was tha
officiating clergyman at the Sunday serv
ices and the bearers were as follows:
H. A. Richardson, 1). W. Blodgett, A. D.
Cummings of St. Johnsbury, C. S. Meak
er, W. G. Reynolds and Perley M. Carr.
There were several fine floral tributes.
Interment was made in the Richardson,
family lot at Elmwood cemetery.
STORY PURE FABRICATION.
Italian Was Not Badly Treated in Chit
tenden County JaiL
Burlington, March 20 That the Ital
ian government has been investigating
the Chittenden county jail as the result
of the confinement of some Italians de
tained as witnesses for several months
following the murder of Henry Bushey
in Winooski two years ago by an un
known man has just become known. The
Mrs. Catherine C. Donahue, a Native of investigation was conducted through tho
Moretown Italian consul in New York and Attor
ney Guv B. Horton of Burlington.
Mrs. Catherine C. Donahue, aged ofi, J (e Jf the men so detained, Antonio
died yesterday forenoon at t:45 at the , Xarzo, died before the case was disposed,
home of her nephew, E. II. Xerney. in ; u Rj another, Michele Dimase, was
Websterville, after an illness of seven nearjr frightened to death by alleged
week' duration. Mrs. Donahue was born ifieat, of violence from his countrymen
yesterday at the home of her brother, children on their way to Sunday school, j riotous tumult which was not ended un- ..j kno,;
"Northeast of Vermelles, southeast of f. K.. Kittridje of Wond-villp. after a
tilling four of thpm. fHW ImtnK. lot i" ' iwniwi. unr oi ot0 rival onair- i .1 ,-.i..-i .i,n,;;. .r .!..;..
ja lessee canai, alter enecine annier glx weeks' Uln.-ss. Funeral will lie held business block, a barber shop and several , 'mm ln ,u'Mc ,lnon thinir in thpir power to stop the traMc.
-ir i.uu.ii,i ur..ii 'vi.., mrainy al n. m.. ITOm I IMP MI- rpSlClenipS. .ir?ir,i, 1MPI7.1-I
he said, "that the military
n Moretown. Jan. 13. 1HVI. and most of
her life resided in Montpelier. going to
live with Mr. Nerney seven years ago.
She is survived by "no nearer relatives
than niece ami nephews.
The funeral will be held miiiipm7
if he told what he knew.
A third. Bruno Catalano, when he was
finally released returned to Italy ami
told Tarzo's widow of the terrible treat
ment received by her husband. Mrs. Tar
zo sought to recover indemnity for tho
morning at 8 o'clock from St. Sylvester s ' ,ipMth of her husband, claiming be a
church in Graniteville. 1 he txxiy win ix t ti nt up for three months in a dark. dani
dungeon, where the little iron cell would
not allow the free movement of his body;
faken to Moretown Tor interment in .-i.
Patrick's cemetery.
Noble I-ove of Tremont tret ai-com-panied
C A. IWmi- of Vi!liintown to
Montreal to-dsv. where Mr. ISemis i to
'consult Dr. Bvers. an eye specialist.
that he suffered frrnn hunger, his daily
rations beinir a slice of bread and a glass
of warm water; that he was taken sick
a few days after he wi confined, th
sickness being causod by the dampness;
we recaptured irom me isruisn some in- fridge home and the body taken to Dan- I On.' bomb fell through the cable of a !""" "irr.inK nraimiea wespons. ,tli ; bv the ,(,. ltrn authorities "'' "IT'ng "P ""' " - '"'." that idcun-v followed and then deafh;
tie gains they had obtained in mine fight-pille.Vt., for burial. " jhoppital to the floor Mow. but nobodvi rret. the supporter of I. .f. Mo- , lh ,n,IircinL' is -till yoimr on l"1I"st ,H'k- Mr- , . , W " : that no different treatment was extended
ing on March 2. Of the British occu- j was injure!. The weather wa. clear and j Craw of iVnca t ity. candidate for n- IL "f Wncan! ' in ! thought to be a p.e of tecl m h.s e.ye, bj. Ih,t . Uw
pants, the majority of whom were buried j Mrs. Francis A. M.-Carthv of Averill the attacking machine, flew very hith. j'; committeeman withdrew ,d the. , it ,f th.r, Bre llt , n,l it may be iiarv to operate to. f . r w jpiU of
in the flattened trenches, we captured street left the citv this morning for her! A dozen bomb were dropped in Dover ! adherents of .Ismcs Harris of Wgon-r. .,,n,i m,i,i10 " ' remote the foreign siim.tan.-e. J,.hvsi.in were paid fr bv bis friend:
3" rviv.-rs. A British counter-attack former home in Franeonia. N. H., where, and four person, were kdled there. One rival candidate for the same potion, ? Mir, , x LI uX iw of lower' '' " " " rr'""n " '""
failed. she.i to make a visit of a wevk. ;of the misile, crashed through the roof continued their deliberation,. .T,i' ,w t J v7i;... Z .V - Mr ""l V , U.'!,,P ' ", " ,w month of torment a carr id
"The town of Lens was a p. in bombard- A telephone- call at :M Saturdar 'of an orph.ns.re. causing ctco-ve dsn,- Trouble h.fn a. po. jt m. "'"''"" 1 J''"!' m , I "h"- ' ''"J1 '; --V '"J"?!'" 'j,,, . , erVVe d.cd in I fe
ed br heavy Britiali artillery." night bmU-.t the fire tru.k to the gro- 'are and injuring . iu,n. The child in ..'P that the H.rri. d M,sw- .f'"? " " I I i 11 iT u-'"1 i:,'VY ''"iV, " "T' "i i'" i T.r
1 cerv store cn.idu.ted bv J. G. Sha.lro,,! te In.trtution ,nVred no injury, having fact i would try to b.,1.1 comcrt.on . the.r or.tions curtailed by la. k TW ,-,,M firt t.Un pVi. -
OUIET SUNDAY BEFORE VERDUN. Ion South Main street, where a defective been tsken to the cellar at the fir-t j the s,,e hall. Attempt t iant 1 , - i ""k T V t i J, i,Wt,T found the .torr
VIJ !,;..,., fc.,i .ii. 1 ,i. .i i t... ..f .1,- e.wW. Anr rv A fr i hn.ir.es i.iwii.itated di.or.1er ..e.t,l the en.iis share of the vast tide of cartridg' atta. k of inilamn ti-fl of t1,e Ik.wcI-. ernment delre t..ry to.ind tne tory
Germans Made No Attempt te Renew the
Attack.
I'ari., Msrch 20. The ho ci bard meat
snd other munitions that
. m , n r wa rA. m a . , .a . . .n. . nm . , . .. n . .i, ,. 'l ii , in-w,-.,., i. lite B.. it, 'ii.i mnmnii- ,
tioa noirit. The nse hand rbnica1 Severs! British aer-plam stsrtel miand fomht. whde pntator hnotl a.d'Mic fffn srini sources during the tie mnmp
was siirtent to Pijiiel. h tie blare, as it purud. jj-e-ed. iNnfon" arrest wa. hsse.i ,
diicreU before it ! tninel At IVsl tiomb alo were ur..ppel and c :rce that (e urew a pistol and U rtv
flowe.1 into ( huh w in turn iicre..led bv a case of ! pure fabrication.
I.ivli renlt's futa'Iv. f-
l.ist rHe year ba Im-ch earli.1 bv one I m..- it .rert. thrr ft'T c'h! !ren
or tue oti-r ni ine lactional ri.iei. j-urie. iwnai ih ...e -i.ht i-ih-'i
Vf. ad Mr. T v ii n X. Wl.celrk ant
Air and Mr W. h. Uleatley l orth-
I axis, juarcn i ;ir jnwnnuuirri ut-ei'ri wnnf 11 i .i nam .w i"i whip -ti-" .i - it - r'-"" , ., . ,1 . . ii - , v, (-,'. v
U U the th t VefdM ery Lsadaaj. Tka daa wa. .IhU .otue Umaf. was to jrofertj. em-4 George rascal, Uie;U. Tlf t huge tuantitie of rules, anuuu- row in tie Catboiic eUrj m tis ctr. tU were ..trs ill t-e c.t -aturcj.
