The intelligent, common sense
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—Gom­
pers.
VOL. 23., NO. 30
John Kenneth Turner Discribe.
How Farmers Are Robbed
of Millions.
BROKERS USE FUTURES
TO BEAT DOWN PRICES
How J. Ogden Armour Plays the
Grain Market to
Advantage.
How the farmers of this nation are
annually robbed of $302,000,000 on
wheat alone, of which $182,000,000
may be charged to market specula­
tion, is described by John Kenneth
Turner in the current number of the
Appeal to Reason. Turner first ex­
plains that not all wheat brokers are
concerned in this, that some are
merely gamblers betting: upon the
turn of the market. As he says:
"The millions and hundreds of mil­
lions are made not by the mere gam­
blers, but by the men who buy and
sell actual wheat in large quantities,
who form the grain monopoly. They
are the biggest gamblers of all, but
their primary purpose in gambling is
to beat down the market when they
want to buy and force it up when
they want to sell. In fact, grain ex­
changes are conducted only second­
arily as a means to skinning the out­
side speculator. The shining mark
of the Grain Exchange is Mr. Tiller
of the Soil."
Turner then explains how the price
•if real wheat is determined by the
price of "futures." A trade in futures
is a contract to buy or deliver at a
certain future period and at a cer­
tain price a given amount of wheat
of a given grade known as the "con­
tract grade." No wheat at all changes
hands.
How It Is Done.
As an actual example of how the
farmers were defrauded last year,
Turner gives the following account of
grain manipulation:
"Now, supposing that, on May 1.
the price of No. 2 red wheat at Chi­
cago is $1.64. J. Ogden Armour,
head of the greatest warehouse com­
bination in America, having sold out
his stocks of wheat to the allies—
and cleaned tip $8,000,000—starts a
'bear' campaign. He does not go it
alone: he calls in his friends. They
send their brokers into the pit with
orders
to sell July wheat at the mar­
ket
in unlimited quantities,
"The market is $1.64. Of course,
the 'unlimited quantities' are not of­
fered all at once. There is a certain
finesse in the game that need not be
go no into here. However, the brokers
sell and keep selling. The selling
being livelier than the buying, soon
the market 'sags.' There being no
let-up in the selling, the market
'sags' some more. At the end of the
first day the market closes 'weak,'
and the next morning it open 'down.'
What Bear Campaign Does.
"The 'bear campaign' is kept up
day after day and week after week.
The sellers, as everybody knows, are
the 'bears,' the buyers the 'bulls.'
Earlier in the year J. Ogden Armour
had been a 'bull' himself, and had
helped boost the market to that very
$1.64, after which he had unloaded.
,kSo
Armour 'sells short* 5,000,000
bushels— 10,000,000— 50,000,000—
100,000,000. So long as he can send
more selling orders ^to the pit than
the 'bulls' can send buying orders the
market continues to go down. Ar­
mour may also have brokers quietly
Continued on Page 3.
At the opening of the present ses­
sion of Congress Representative Bur­
nett introduced without change the
much-discussed Burnett bill which
President Wilson had vetoed in the
preceding Congress because it pro­
vided for the exclusion of illiterate
aliens and for the exclusion and de­
portation after landing of aliens who
advocate or teach the unlawful de­
struction of property, a provision
which was admittedly aimed at mili­
tant suffragists and followers of the
Industrial Workers of the World.
Two
Successive Defeats.
It will be recalled that in the Sixty
second Congress President Taft ve­
toed the Dillingham-Burnett bill also
because it contained a literacy test,
but the Alabama Congressman, un­
daunted by two successive defeats,
has not modified his position and is
again pressing vigorously for restric­
tive legislation.
In his veto message of last winter,
President Wilson said concerning the
proposed legislation:
"It seeks to all but close entirely
the gates of asylum which have al­
ways been open to those who could
find nowhere else the right and op­
portunity of constitutional agitation
for what they conceived to be the
natural and inalienable right of men
and it excludes those to whom the
opportunities of elementary educa­
tion has been denied, without regard
to their character, their purposes, or
their natural capacity."
The House Committee on Immi­
gration and Naturalization, however,
is not disposed to accept the Presi­
dent's view of these matters, for after
hearings at which both advocates
and Opponents of restriction were
represented the committee directed a
favorable report upon the bill, some­
Union To Take Advantage
the Times To Shorten
Day.
REACH UNORGANIZED
WORKERS NEXT MOVE
Believed Country Ready To Con­
cede Demand to All Wage
Earners.
WASHINGTON The organized
labor movement of America is rally­
ing as one man to its demand for an
eight-hour working day. Never be­
fore has this demand been so insist­
ent and so compelling. Never before
has labor had such magnificent op­
portunity to enforce by its own efforts
the application of a working day that
gives the citizen who works the time
and opportunity to become, in the
words of President Gompers of the
American Federation of Labor, "a
human being with intellectual desires
and cravings."
All groups and organizations and
agencies of publicity that recognized
the rights of labor are giving fine
assistance to labor to express and get
before the American public its
righteous demands for the eight-hour
day.
View of Samuel Gompers
The splendid work of Samuel Gom­
pers, voicing the organized labor
movement, has placed the eight-hour
day on an impregnable roc^ of justice
and righteousness. President Gom­
pers said:
"The individual who works eight
Continued on Page 2.
empiovesofsTate
Hospital Nurses, Poorly Paid,
Organize To Press Claims
In Illinois.
CHICAGO, March. 1.0.—-Hospital
nurses and attendants employed by
the various state institutions have
formed a state organization. These
employes are organized in unions
affiliated to the American Federation
of Labor. "While men and women
doing similar work in other states
have pleaded with lawmakers for re­
lief, the Illinois state hospital nurses
and attendants organized about two
years ago and now have the eight
hour day, one day rest, in seven, equal
pay for men and women and have se­
cured an arrangement providing for
automatic wage increases.
The advantages of organization
have so impressed the state board
which manages these institutions that
recently the board issued an order
to all superntendents to "keep hands
off" these unions. To impress upon
superintendents the fact that workers
have the right to organize, the state
board later issued another order to
the same effect, and superintendents
were also instructed to place the or­
der on the bulletin boards of their re­
spective institutions and notify the
board that they had received a copy
of the order.
what amended in form (H. R.
10384), and it is now before the
House.
Tho text of the Burnett reading
test provision is as follows:
"That after three months from the
passage of this Act, in addition to the
aliens who are by law now excluded
from admission into the United
States, the following persons shall
also be excluded from admission
thereto, to-wit:
"All aliens over sixteen years of
age, physically capable of reading,
who can not read the English lan­
guage, or some other language or
dialect, including Hebrew or Yiddish:
Provided, That any admissable alien,
or any alien heretofore or hereafter
legally admitted, or any citizen of
the United States, may bring in or
send for his father or grandfather
over fifty-five years of age, his wife,
his mother/ his grandmother, or his
unmarried or widowed daughter, if
otherwise admissible, whether such
relative can read or not and such
relative shall be permitted to enter.
How List Will Be Made.
"That for the purpose of ascertain­
ing whether aliens can read the im­
migrant inspectors shall be furnished
with slips of uniform size, prepared
under the direction of the Secretary
of Labor, each containing not less
than thirty nor more than forty
words in ordinary use, printed in
plainly legible type in some one of
the various languages or dialects of
immigrants. Each alien may desig­
nate the particular language or dia­
lect in which he desires the examina­
tion to be made, and shall be re­
quired to read the words printed on
the slip in such language or dialect.
"That the following classes of per­
sons shall be exempt from the opera­
tion of the illiteracy test, to-wit: All
aliens who shall prove to the satis­
The city commission has decided that the city at­
torney may have associated with him in the appeal
to the supreme court of the armory referendum case,
an attorney who is in sympathy with the intent and
spirit of the city charter.
The city will pay all the ordinary costs, but the
friends of the referendum must dig down in their pockets
for the money to pay the extra attorney. And the friej
of the referendum will cheerfully do so.
The more we think about the case the more
vinced we are that it can be won, that is if it is p:
erly presented to the supreme court.
In another column of this number of The
World, A. G. Catlin of the Typographical union, ji
home-spun fashion, has given us a few new nuts to
crack with relation to the'application of the referendum^
and as to who are electors qualified to sign a referen­
dum petition.
It will be remembered that the city attorney held
that none but electors whose names appear on the reg­
istration list were entitled to sign a referendum peti­
tion. Judge Dancer also held to this opinion.
But if this is good law how will it work? Let us
see. A man may have registered at the last election and
since then moved to Superior or some other city where
he gpins a new legal residence. While a referenduin
petition is in circulation he happens to be a visitor |n
Duluth, and upon request he signs the petition, although
he has lost his legal residence here for voting purposed.
How is the city clerk to know whether or not this mail
is a qualified elector? Under Judge Dancer's decisi|fc
he is qualified to sign a petition, although he has lq$t
his right to vote at an election. Is this good law? VS^tl
such tend to promote and preserve the purity of the ref­
erendum, a condition equally as important as the purify
of the ballot?
A qualified elector in Minnesota is defined as one.
who is a citizen of the United States, 21 ye^rs ofage,
six months a resident of the state, and a resident of the
election district for 30 days, next preceding the election
at which he desires to vote. There are more than 40
election districts in the city of Duluth.
Herman Olson, we will say that is his name, h4&
been a resident of Duluth for 30 years. At the last
municipal election Herman was working out of the cil y.
and could not get home to vote. His name does not a]
pear on the registration list, but since last April He
man has been working in town and when the referendui I
petition was handed to him, he signed it as he tboug]
he had a perfect right to do. Now comes the cityattp
ney and Judge Dancer who sat that Herman is no{J*
qualified elector although if a speciait election were
CHEMICAL WORKS HAS
ANOTHER BIG STRIKE
ROOSEVELT, N.
J.,
March 10.—
Several hundred workers employed at
the Williams & Clark plant of the
American Agricultural Chemical com­
pany struck last week to enforce a
nine-hour day and 25 cents an hour.
These workers have been paid 22
cents for a 10-hour day. A strike
started at this plant a year ago. last
January. Strike guards fired on the
workers, killing two and injuring 19.
guards were found guilty. and
The
sentenced to short terms in prison.
The cases are still pending.
LAUNDRY WORKERS ORGANIZE.
TROY, N. Y., Mar. 10.—Officers of
the Laundry Workers International
union report that locals have been
informed at Pocatello, Idaho Miami
and Globe, Arizona and Edwardsville,
111., during January.
faction of the proper immigration
officer or to the Secretary of Labor
that they are seeking admission to the
United States to avoid religious per­
secution in the country of their last
permanent residence, whether such
persecution be evidenced by overt
acts or by laws or governmental
regulations that discriminate against
the alien or the race to which he be­
longs because of his religious faith
all aliens who have been lawfully ad­
mitted to th'e United States and who
have resided therein continuously for
five years, and who have in accord­
ance with the law deblared their in­
tention of becoming citizens of the
United States and who return to the
United States within six months from
the date of their departure there­
from all aliens in transit through
the United States all aliens who
have, been lawfully admitted to the
United States and who later shall go
in transit from one part of the
United States to another through for­
eign contiguous territory."
One Important Change.
While the reading test now pro­
posed is identical with the test to
which President Wilson objected, a
greater degree of immunity is pro­
vided for aliens fleeing from relig­
ious persecution. In the bill of last
session such immunity was confined
to aliens coming "solely for the pur­
pose of escaping from religious per­
secution," while in the bill now pend­
ing the word "solely" does not ap­
pear and in addition it is provided
that such persecution may be evi­
denced by discriminatory laws or
governmental regulations, as well as
by overt acts. The Importance of the
amendment is obvious.
The provision relating to the ex­
clusion and deportation of aliens who
advocate the unlawful destruction of
property is the same as in the meas­
mm
IPS, SOCIAL JUSTICE. EC0N0MIGj|EiF0RM AND POLITIC A T. PROGEESS.
DULUTII AXD^SIJPERIOK, MARCH 11,1916.
SHOULD KEEP MILITIA
AWAY FROM STRIKE DUTY
WASHINGTON, March 10
.—The
American Federation of Labor, which,
through its president, Samuel Gom­
pers, has advocated increasing the na­
tional defenses,. has served notice on
the administration it will not support
the army bill as drawn in the house*
military affairs committee.
The bill makes no provision to re­
lieve the national guard from- future
service as strike breakers. Until such
provision is made the Federation of
Labor will oppose the measure. The
federation will demand that the bur­
den of cost for increiasing the national
defenses shall be distributed among
those who will benefit.
President Gompers said that a peo­
ple unwilling to defend -the institu­
tions of self-government are not
worthy of having those institutions.
He added, however, that their weap­
ons of defense should not be such as
could be turned against a great ma­
jority of them at any time.
ARE YOU FAMILIAR WITH CHIEF FEATURES OF BURNETT IMMIGRATION BUI?
ure vetoed by the President, with the
exception of a modifying provision to
the effect— "that nothing in this act
shall exclude, if otherwise admissible,
persons convicted, or who admit the
commission, or who teach or advocate
the commission, of an offence purely
political."
This provision was adopted by the
committee as a substitute for existing
law which grants immunity from ex­
clusion to "otherwise admissible per­
sons convicted of an offence purely
political, not involving moral turpi­
tude." Apart from whatever effect
the amended rovision may have on
aliens who advocate the destruction of
property, it is apparently the purpose
of the committee to admit political
offenders whether or not their of­
fences involve moral turpitude.
Salient Features Remain.
In the fierce legislative battle of
last winter over the reading test va­
rious other features of the Burnett
bill proposing important changes in
existing immigration law escaped gen­
eral attention, but practically all of
these are retained in the present bill,
while others of equal or greater im­
portance were added by the House
committee. The immigration act of
1907, as amended in 1910, provides
for the exclusion of almost every con­
ceivable kind of physical and mental
defectives and moral delinquents as
well as otherwise desirable immi­
grants who induced to come to the
United States by promises of employ­
ment—a class known to the law as
contract laborers.
Besides illiterates and destroyers of
property, however, the Burnett bill as
reported .from the- committee adds
several new classes to the category of
the unfit, including vagrants persons
of constitutional psychopathic Inferi­
ority persons with chronic alcohol­
ism Hindus, and persons who are not
be held tomorrow he could legally register and vote
thereat. But under the decision he is incompetent to
Bign a referendum petition, although he could legally
register and vote at an election to which the referendum
proposition is submitted. Is this good law?
A. A. Barr is a machinist in the employ of the North­
ern Pacific railway. He has been a resident of Duluth
to our knowledge for 15 years, and was for a time
foreman at the N. P| shops. Mr. Barr rented a house
in the West End all these years and voted at every elec­
tion since coming to Duluth, save the last election.
Shortly before the election he moved into a home of his
own at Woodland. He had not lived in the election dis­
trict to which he moved and where he is now a home
owner long enough to gain a legal residence therein to
vote at the last election, and knowing in advance that
he would not be entitled to vote he did not take the
trouble to register. If a special election should be
held today, Mr. Barr could register and vote thereat, but
according to Judge Dancer's decisioin he has no right
to sign a petition calling for such election. Is this
good law?
John Farrell boarded in a house last spring which has
since been razed and a warehouse stands in its place.
He registered and voted at the election district in which
he then resided. He now resides in the West End. He
is. a sailor and is on the lakes when the directory can­
vasser is about, and for this reason his name never ap­
pears in the city directory. Mr. Farrell signed the ref­
erendum petition giving his present address. He would
have a perfect legal right to vote in the district in which
he now resides if an election were to be held today, but
as 'the city clerk is not obliged to examine the list in
each of the 43 election districts he did not count Mr.
Farrell.
:.If31r Farrell took-the trouble to call on the city
clerk and could show to him that he registered and voted
in the election district where the warehouse now stands
he probably would have been counted, but he lost his
legal residence there and be can never again return there
to vote. He is not now a qualified elector of the election
district in which he resided last April, and yet it is held
that h£ is competent to sign a petition for a referen­
dum election.
So it can be seen if the spirit and letter of the law
and the charter were permitted to be followed in filling a
referendum petition there, would be more order, less
chance of fraud and a greater degree of honesty, than
#iH obtain by following the recent judidiHaitiftrpretation
giyen, the charter as to what constitutes a "qualified
elect***' for the purpose ofsignlng initiative, referendum
tor recall petitions.
NEW YORK TEACHERS
FORM TRADES UINON
NEW YORK, March 10.—Public
school teachers in this city are dis­
cussing organization and affiliation
with the American Federation of
Labor. President Gompers has held
conferences with teachers and princi­
pals who favor this movement. Senti­
ment for unionization has increased
because of threatened reduction of
salaries and uncertainty of positions
following the efforts of local politi­
cians to control the public schools by
securing the passage of a "home
rule" law by the state legislature.
ACCEPT UNION HOURS.
LAWRENSE, Kan., Mar. 10.—The
construction company that is building
a bridge in this city has decreased
the work day from 10 to 8 hours and
has accepted the wage rates of the
Carpenters' union.
eligible to citizenship by naturaliza­
tion. The present law refusing admis­
sion to "persons likely to become a
public charge" is amended to read
"persons likely for any reason to be­
come a public charge the evident
purpose being to nullify a recent de­
cision of the United States Supreme
Court to the effect that under existing
law aliens cannot be debarred as
likely to become a charge upon the
public because poor economic condi­
tions exist in the community to which
they are going.
The bill Increases the "head tax" on
aliens from $4 to $8, but provides that
such tax shall not be levied on chil­
dren under sixteen years of age who
accompany their father or mother.
Under the present law Aliens who
have resided in Canada, Newfound­
land, Cuba o** Mexico for one year are
exempt from the tax, but this exemp­
tion is removed by the proposed legis­
lation except in the case of temporary
visitors from such countries.
History of Literacy Test.
A transportation company bringing
to the United States an alien whose
iminigratlon has been induced by the
company must pay an administrative
fine 'of $400 in each case, while com­
panies which persistently Induce im­
migration in violation of law may be
denied the privilege of landing pas­
sengers at a Unted States port. The
administrative fine of $100 now im­
posed oh steamship companies for
bringing a seriously diseased alien Is
increased to *200, and a fine of $25
is provided in the case of an alien
who is merely physically or mentally
defective the purpose being to insure
a more thorough medical examination
at foreign ports..
It is further stipulated that a fine
of $200 shall be levied for bringing
illiterate aliens, 'Hindus, and persons
who cannot become naturalised, and
IS
TGRi
A
E
He Has New Vision About Appli­
cation of Law and
Constitution.
ESTABLISHED ORDER
IN GARMENT TRADES
Employers, Publicists And Labor
Leaders Testify To His
True Worth.
WASHINGTON, March 10.—New­
ton D. Baker, newly appointed secre­
tary of war, former mayor of Cleve­
land, and president of the National
Consumers' league, presented to
the Brandeis investigating committee
a statement on behalf of a large
group of New York manufacturers,
labor- leaders, publicists and social
workers.
The statement reviewed Mr. Bran­
deis' activities in preventing labor
troubles and in defending legislation
for shorter hours and better wages
for working women, and requested
the confirmation of his appointment
to the supreme court on the grounds
of his notable judicial quality in deal­
ing with industrial crises.
Mr. Brandeis is declared the man
who brought about law and order in
the garment trades, which were
among the most unsettled industries
in the United States before his inter­
vention five years ago. He has since
acted as arbitrator and court of ap­
peal, with such conspicuous success
that there have been no strikes and
both manufacturers and workers
have prospered.
Mr. Brandeis' defense of the consti-
Continued on Page 3.
Wonderful Progress Shown In
All American Yards. .Cost Is
Cheapened
WASHINGTON, Mar. 10.—Reports
to the federal bureau of navigation
show that many American shipyards,
crowded with work as never before in
their history, are refusing all con­
tracts calling for new types of vessels
and confining construction to those
of types for which construction plans
already have been drawn. The
amount of tonnage under construc­
tion in American yards has doubled
within the last year. It has increased
nearly 50 per cent since the first of
December, and yards are so filled
with orders that many have work
tha.t will keep them steadily employed
until well into 1917. Thirty-nine ships
have been completed since last July.
The bureau reports the tendency
is toward larger vessels. Of the 230
ships reported building, IS are of
more than 10,000 tons and 33 of be­
tween 7,000 and 10,000. Department
officials are investigating the claim
that structural steel may be used in
vessel construction. If it proves suc­
cessful, it is declared vessel building
will not only be cheapened, but an
immense advantage will be given to
American yards because structural
steel is produced in such large quan­
tities in the United States.
an additional fin3 equal to the amount
paid for transportation by a rejected
alien of any of the several classes
named is also provided this amount
is to be returned to the alien con­
cerned by United States officials.
Arriving aliens must be examined
by two medical officers and two im­
migrant inspectors, and experts in the
diagnosis of mental diseases are to be
stationed at important ports of land­
ing. The period during which certain
classes of aliens may be deported from
the country is increased from three
years after entry to five years aliens
found advocating or teaching the un­
lawful destrution of property are
added to the category of those who
shall be deported as are aliens who
are sentenced to one or more years'
imprisonment for a crime committed
within five years after entry, unless
otherwise recommended by the court
imposing the sentence. The annual
appropriation for the employment of
persons outside the civil service to en­
force the ontract labor law is in­
creased from $50,000 to $100,000, and
persons so employed may be detailed
to other immigration work.
It Lets Up a Little.
'While the Burnett bill is essentially
restrictive in character it proposes to
modify somewhat the severity of ex­
isting law In some particulars, a "not­
able instance in this regard being the
provision that an alien certified for
insanity or mental defect may appeal
•to a board of Public Health Service
surgeons and introduce expert testi­
mony in his own behalf. At present
aliens so certified have no appeal and
deportation is mandatory.
Another proposed modification is
found in the contract labor provision.
At present skilled labor may be im­
ported if unemployed labor of like
kind cannot be found In the United
States,, but the all important auction
orking cites movemejjtto
pq hosj effective most he conducted
,byoe .workers themselves in the in
Jterest jt the workers. It' will not
Sfe dominated by the so-called in
tellectuals or butters-in.—Gompers.
TWO CENTS,
LESS TUMI SG
U. S. Labor Bureau Report
Shows Most Female Em
ployers Under 20.
CHILD EMPLOYMENT
IS MOST EXTENSIVE'
Low Wages Paid To Women
and Children Presents
Grave Problems.
WASHINGTON, March 10.—Thst
bureau of labor statistics of the de-4|
partment of labor has just Issued aj|.
summary of its report on the con-ji
dition of woman and child wagej1
earners in the United States.
The establishments included in thei'
bureau's investigation employed more
than 335,000 persons, of whom overij
167,000, or approximately.50 per cent!
were females. The most striking!}
feature of this great Tabor force wa^j
the extreme youthfulness of those!
employed.
In three of the industry groups^!
the southern cotton group, the glass!
industry, and the Pennsylvania silkfi
group, more than two-thirds, of the I
female employes were found to be1
under 20. On the other hand, thetj
'proportion 25 years of age
"'and overi
was large enough to suggest the need!!
for vocational training for girls)
Many Married Women.
The importance of married Women
among these wage earners is shown'
by the fact that of 27 industries stud
ied, only three were found in which?!
the proportion of married womenH
among those years of age and over
was under 10 per cent, and from thisji*'
it runs up to two-fifths, and in one!!
industry even to three-fifths.
In the four industries which wer«#-|
the subject of intensive study, it was
found that in some 5,000 families]
from 82 to 98 per cent of the families
had girls 16 years of age and over a€!
work, and that from 80 to 95 pert'
cent of all the girls of this age groiipij
in these families were wage earnersjj
One of the most significant facts,
disclosed by the investigation in al'-i'r
most all industries was the large'
proportion of woman wage earners,
who were paid low wages, wages in!.j
many cases inadequate to supply W{
reasonable standard .of living foiy
•wofiien dependent "ulioti "their ewnH
earnings for support. fl
Wages Are Small.
In the* group of women employed!j
in the four great industries, cotton.){
men's ready-made clothing, glass andFj
silk, from two-fifths to two-thirds otj.
those 16 years of age and over earned^
less than $6 a week. a
In another group of 2 3 industries,^,
an examination of the earnings ©CV
of over 38,000 women, 18 years of a$e?V
and over, showed that 41 per centfl*
earned less than $6 a week. "*j
The report shows that the employ-^!
ment of children was both fntensiv^j
and serious not only Were children^
found employed in great numbers, bufcj
they were found employed below thefi
legal age, employed at work le^allyy
prohibited to children of their yearsil
employed for illegally long hours apdl
at illegal times employed throughq
evasions of the law and under,"falsej|
certificates of age, as well as undeifl
many other undesirable conditions, if
In spite of all of this,evidence wasrt
found of a decrease in the relative]
number of children employed, and.'?
very plain indications that a-publicd
sentiment against their exploitation^
is making itself effectively. !r
of whether such labor is unobtainable
here can not be determined until the
imported aliens apply for admission
at a United States port The B.urnett|
bill provides that the necessity for]
bringing such labor from abroad mayl
bs determined before importation.!
Still another provision not in existing]
law, although commonly- followed by]
the immigration authorities, directs
that the wife or children of an aHenl,
who has declared his intention to-be-*
come a citizen shall not be refused 1
entry on account of disease until
medical treatment has been accorded,'!
and may be admitted before ia cure is,
effected if it can be done without
danger to others. Several sections of
the bill are devoted to provisions for
the control of deserting alien seamen,
May Be Fined Heavily. j.
The House committee's report re-|
fers briefly to the history of" the lite-]
racy test, which, it says, has pome up]'
in almost every Congress for the past'
fifteen or twenty years, and Strongly
urges its adoption. "The people of
the country understand it," says the
committee, "and the great-majority of
them indorse it." The. committee con-,
tributes another opinion to the much
discussed question of immigration
after the war as fellows:
Even during these times of war in
Europe 446,474 aliens came in. it is
true, that nearly as many went out/
most of them in response to the-call
to the colors on the other, ttde.
3iit
noVcnly will most of the survivors of
those who departed return, "but It is
thought by many of the ablest'men of
the land that millions more of, the
poorest and most illiterate will com*
to this, country. The best will stay to
rehabilitate their stricken countries,
and the worst will flock to our land
and bett down the price xf iabor, and
