igiiawiq4wrag1i
X9M.4
POPUI ;yON 28,219
VOL LVI1I. NO. 61
NORWICH, CONN SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 1916
SIXTEEN PAGES.
PRICE TWO CENTS'. "2
The Bulletin's Circulation y6rwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
' . rrTrr
'VANTAGE
STRIFE FOR
Germans Retake Part of the Corbeaux Wood From
Which French Had Ejected Them
TEUTONS LAUNCH W&'OUS INFANTRY ATTACKS
Contradictory Statements Come From Headquarters of Con
tending Armies as to Results at Various Points Berlin's
Claim of Capture of Wooded Secions East of Fort Vaux
is Flatly Denied by Paris Italians Are Keeping Up Their
Offensive Against the Austrians, With the Isonzo Front
the Scene of Intermittent Shelling Russians Continue
to Press the Turk- Mong the Black Sea Coast Toward
Trebizond.
Throwing large masses of infantry
against the French in the Corbeaux
Wood, northwest of Verdun, the Ger
mans, after several attacks, In which
they are declared by Paris to have
suffered large casualties, have retaken
part of the wood from which the
French had previously ejected them.
The entire region about Verdun con
tinues the scene of intense operations.
West of Douaumont and the sector em
bracing the village of Vaux have been
points against which the Germans have
launched vicious infantry attacks, but
at both places their efforts to advance
broke down under the heavy fire of
the French, according to Paris.
Berlin, however, counters this asser
tion by announcing the taking of a
ridge west of Douaumont by the Ger
mans, and says also fhe Germans have
eracceeded in pushing forward their
line through the wooded sectors south
east of Damloup, which lies a short
distance east of Fort Vaux.
The statement is made in the Ger
man official communication that the
Germans have succeeded in gaining a
firm footing in Fort Vaux. Paris had
previously categorically denied that the
Germans had captured either the fort
or the village of Vaux.
East and southeast of Verdun over a
front of about seven and a half miles
the Germans have been directing a
fceaw bombardment, on the towns of
Eix, MoulainviUe, Villers-Sous-Bon-
DICTAGRAPH IN NEW YORK ..
DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE,
Surreptitiously Placed There to Record
Conversations About Osborne.
White Plains, N. Y March 10. Al
most on the eve of the trial of Thomas
Mott Osborne, former warden of Sing
King, under an indictment charging
him with perjury in connection with a
grand jury investigation of the prison,
District Attorney Frederick E. Weeks,
who will prosecute Osborne, announced
today that conversations which have
taken place in his private office since
January, regarding the case, have been
overheard and recorded by means of a
telephonic device installed In a nearby
room. Three persons examined by
Mm today confessed, Mr. Weeks said,
that they were retained by a private
detective agency in New York to learn
what they could regarding Ms move
ments in the Osborne case.
Mr. Weeks' headquarters has been
temporarily in an office building near
the county Courthouse. Yesterday, ac
cording to the prosecutor, an employe
discovered a wire which ran from a
point behind a bookcase in his office
to rooms rented about six weeks ago
by a young woman who desired quar
ters for use by public stenographers.
This woman, according to Mr. Weeks,
questioned the janitor's helper as to the
layout of the district attorney's office.
Mr. Weeks declined to make public
the names of the persons he examined.
One, a woman, he said, came from Bos
ton. He Intimated that their stories
might lead to the prosecution of per
sons who employed them. .
Mr. Osborne's trial will begin on
Monday.
C. N. G. COULD BE MOBILIZED
IN LESS THAN TWO DAYS.
Adjutant General Cole Says 3,900 Of
ficers and Men Would Be Ready.
Hartford, Conn., March 10. (Adju
tant General George M. Cole of the
Connecticut National Guard eaid to
night that In the event of a call to go
to Miexico, approximately 3,900 offi
cers and enlisted men of the state
militia could be mobilized In less than
two days. This force includes the
coast artillery corps but does not In
clude the naval militia, which num
bers about 300 men.
The adjutant general said that while
the state troops could be ready to
move in this short time. It would be
necessary to wait for the government
to provide 2.200 horses and mules heft-re
the actual start could be made.
STRIKE OF 150,000 TAILORS
TO BE CALLED MONDAY
In New York, Boston, Chicago, Phll
delphia and Baltimore.
New Tork, March 10, A strike of
150.000 tailors in New York, Boston,
Chicago Philadelphia and Balltimore
will be called next Monday, according
to a statement made tody by Thomas
Sweeney, general secretary of the In
ternational Journeymen Tailors' Union,
who came to New York from Chicago
yeserday.
Naval Officers Demoted.
Washington, March 10. Sentences
to reduction of 100 points in grade re
cently imposed by a naval court mar
tial upon Lieutenant H. A. Jones and
Ensign R. D. Kirkpatrick for negli
gence In connection with the loss of a
battle signal book from the destroyer
Hull at San Francisco last August
were approved today by the navy department.
jjKliiiintt JiiMniiMiMtitifi'Tia t nf iliirrirri ij vjrtfWnliTT-1
SWAYS IN
VER
champ and Bonzee, with the French
guns answering them energetically.
In the Artods region the French have
occupied the crater of a mine exploded
by the Germans and in Lorraine have
damaged with their gunfire German or
ganizations on the front of Haleville
Bremenil. The Germans on the upper Strips
region of the Russian front are de
clared by Petrograd to have suffered
heavy losses in a counter-attack made
on a position captured by the Kus-
sians.
Despite the bad weather, the Italians
are keeping up their offensive against
the Austrians along the Austro-Italian
line. The Tolmino bridgehead had
been heavily bombarded and the Isonzo
front has been the scene or intermit
tent shelling.
Petrograd reports a continuation of
the progress of the Russians against
the Turks along the Black sea coast
toward Trebizond.
A British official communication eays
a force which was attempting to re
lieve the siege of Kut-el-Amara and
which had been reported at Eassin,
seven miles east or the beleaguered
town, has been forced because of lack
of water to fall back on the Tigris
river. The Turks, however, claim that
the British retired after their ejection
from a Turkish trench which they had
captured and that they left behind
them 2,000 dead.
ROOSEVELT REITERATES
DISAVOWAL OF CANDIDACY
For Presidential Nomination by Either
Progressive or Republican Party.
New York, March 10. A telegram re
iterating Theodore Roosevelt's dis
avowal of the cindldacy of delegates
who have -filed petitions in the Illinois
primaries expressing their preference
for him for the presidential nomina
tion of either the progressive or repub
lican party was sent today to Secre
tary of State Stephenson of Illinois In
the name of the former president by
Roosevelt & Son, acting as his attor
neys, it was announced tonight.
The action was taken because Mr.
Stephenson refused to accept as legal
compliance with the Illinois statute a
cable message from Mr. Roosevelt to
his secretary, John W. McGrath, in
which he disavowed candidates favor
able to him. Earlier in the day Mr.
MoGrath telegraphed Mr. Stephenson
asking him if he would accept a state
ment executed in the name of Colonel
Roosevelt by his attorneys if it was
accompanied by a sufficient power of
attorney.
ANONYMOUS THREATS REACH
AMERICAN RIGHTS COMMITTEE
Ask iPolice for Protection at Mass
Meeting to Be Held Monday Night.
New York, March 10. Because of
anonymous threats said to have been
received by letter and telephone at the
headquarters of the American Bights
committee, the organization today ask
ed for police protection for the mass
meeting to be held under its auspices
at Carnegie hall Monday night. The
police announced that "the usual num
ber" of uniformed men would be sent
to the hall in addition to a squad of
officers in plain clothes.
GARRISON OFFERS HIS
SERVICES TO ADMINISTRATION
Commendable Spirit Shown by Former
Secretary of War.
Washington, March 10 Former
Secretary Garrison came to Washing
ton today and called at the war de
partment for conference with his suc
cessor, Secretary Baker. Mr. Garrison
offeed his services to the administra
tion in the emergency and is expected
to remain to assist Mr. Baker for the
present at least.
DETECTIVES WATCHING VILLA
AGENTS AND SYMPATHIZERS.
So Far There Have Been No Demon
strations at El Paso.
EJI Paso, Tex., March 10. The move
ment of the Villa agents and sympa
thizers in El Paso was closely watched
today by detectives, to whom they are
well known. So far there have been
no demonstrations.
Reports received at police headquar
ters here state that Juarez, which is
supposed to contain a large number of
Villa sympathizers, is likewise undis
turbed by the Columbus raid and the
movements of American troops.
British Tanker Being Towed to Port
Halifax, N. S. March 10. The
British tank steamer San Onofre, which
has been adrift of" r-p.oe Race for
more than a week, has been picked uu
by the steamcis .r.o.nauula and San
Gregorio and is being-towed to this
port according to wireless messages
received here late today.
Cabled Paragraphs
Norwegian Bark Siliua Sunk.
London, March 10, 6:81 p. m. The
Norwegian bark Siliua, which sailed
from New York February 4, bound tor
Hacre, has been sunk. Three members
of the crew were lost.
Does Col. Churchill Intend to Resign?
London. March 10. 6.03 n m. The
Weekly Nation says it believes that
Colonel Winston Spencer Churchill,
formerly first lord of the admiralty,
intends to resign his commission In
the army and to return to parliament.
BROKER JOHN GRANT LYMAN
WINS A POINT IN COURT.
Prosecution Not Allowed to Exmine
His Books and Letters.
New Tork March 10. John Grant
under indictment for using the mails
to defraud, won a point in court here
today when Federal Judge Hough di
rected John L. Lyttle, receiver in bank
ruptcy for John H. Putnam and Com
pany, the name under which Lyman
conducted a brokerage business here.
not to permit examination of the books
and letters in his possession by As
sistant District Attorney Stanton or
his accountant Judge Hough held
that the alleged bankrupt's books can
be used only by Receiver Lyttle for
ascertaining a list of Lyman's credi
tors and making a tabulation of his
assets and liabilities. The order will
have the effect of shielding Lyman in
the prosecution of indictment against
him charging mail swindling.
Henry A. Wise, counsel for Lyman,
declared his client's books and papers
were seized by the federal authorities
as evidence in the criminal case in
violation of Lyman's constitutional
right and without due process of law.
TROUBLE BETWEEN RIVAL
IRISH ORGANIZATIONS
Over Which is Entitled to a Permit to
Parade in New York.
New York, March 10. Trouble be
tween rival Irish organizations, both
claiming to represent the Ancient Or
der of Hibernians, over the question as
to which is entitled to a permit to
parade here on St. Patrick's day. got
into court today. Coroner Timothy
Healy, grand marshal of one organiza.
tion, described as the "Ancient Order
of Hibernians. New York county," and
which has already ohtained a permit,
was ordered to show cause why it
should not be restrained frcm parading.
The order was obtained by the "An
cient Order of Hiternians of America.
of which Roderick J. Kenny is the
head in New York county. The latter
claims to be the bna fide organization
and asserts that Heaiy's organization
is composed of members suspended for
failure to pay dues to the national or
ganization. ARTISTS TO BE ASKED
TO PROMOTE PATRIOTISM.
By Means of Paintings in the Cam
paign For Preparedness.
New York, March 10. The leading
artists of the United Stat'.s will be
asked to promote patriotism by means
of paintings, posters and cartoons as
a Ettp in the campaign for prej,ared
ness, it was announced here today.
The mcement has been undertaken
bp the Aero Club of America in be
half of allied organizations interested
in national defenste. It is proposed
to have the artists contribute their
work free for publication in newspa
pers and magazines as well as for dis
play on billboards, in street cars and
public buildings.
SCHOLARSHIP FOR CONN.
COLLEGE FOR WOMEN
Graduates of the Hartford Female
Seminary Vote $10,000 as Memorial.
Hartford, Conn., Mich., March 10.
raduates of the Hartford Female Sem
inary a school which ceased to exist
a number of years ago gathered here
today and voted to create a memorial
scholarship of $10,000, the income to be
awarded annually to some student at
the new Connecticut College for Wo
men. Organization was effected and
Mrs. Henry E. Fowler of Guilford
was chosen president.
COMPLETE RETURNS FROM
INDIANA PRIMARY.
Fairchild, Republican, Received 17,282
Votes More Than President Wilson.
Indianapolis, Ind.. March 10. Vir
tually complete returns from Tues
day's primary tabulated here unoffi
cially today show that Former Vice
President Charles W. Fairbanks," can
didate for the republican nomination
for president, received 17.282 votes
more than were cast for President
Woodrow Wilson, candidate for re
nomination on the democratic ticket.
Fairbanks received a total of 176 12
votes to Wilson's 158,847.
PAYMASTER KILLED AND
ROBBED IN PHILADELPHIA
An Assistant Fatally Wounded Rob
bers Get Away With $3,800.
Philadelphia, March 10. Two men
Jumped from a hiding place in a fire
tower of the Germanla Worsted mill
here today, shot and killed a pay
master, fatally wounded his assistant
and escaped with a satchel said to
contain $8,000. Herman Hastening
the paymaster, and Walter Haupt the
assistant, were ascending the lower
with the week's pay of the millhands.
AMERICAN RANCHER KILLED
BY MEXICAN BANDITS
Who Crossed the Border Southeast of
Osborne, Ariz.
Bisbee, Ariz., March 10. An Ameri
can rancher was killed tonight when a
band of approximately 200 Mexican
bandits cossed the border southeast of
Osborne Junction, Ariz., according to
reports reaching here tonight.
Many head of livestock were killed
or driven off by the bandits, it was
stated.
OBITUARY.
Henry Gassoway Davis.
Washington. March 11. Henry Gnm
soway Davis, former United States
senator from Virginia and vice presi
dential candidate on the democratic
ticket In 1904, died here early today
after a brief illness, aged 93 years.
Movements of Steamships.
New York, March 10. Sailed, steam
er Antonio Lopez, Cadiz.
Cadiz, March 1. Sailed: Steamer
Manuel Calvo, New York.
Columbus in State
of High Tension
OVER REPORT THAT VILLA HAD
SURROUNDED TOWN.
INHABITANTS STAMPEDE
Every Man and Even Small Boya Are
Shooting at Everything That Ap
pears to Move in the Desert Brush.
Columbus, N. M March 10. Fran
cisco Villa, with the Mexican bandit
army whose raid on Columbu.s was
beaten off by the Thirteenth United
States cavalry, with severe loss, on
Thursday morning, was at Boca
Grande. 25 miles southeast, at last re-
Always Rendering
Frequently the question Is asked. "Who pays for the advertising?"
The expense for advertising a store is a part of that store's prepara
tion for doing' a big volume of business. To expend adequate sums
for the right sort of publicity is the only method by which a store. In
these days may acquire a large volume of business. The expenditure
for advertising Is therefore made for the purpose of reaching the one
big result desired the capacity to distribute goods at the smallest
possible per-sale profits. It is as appropriate to ask, "Who pays for
the efficient service of a good Btore?" Efficient service is an economy
to the merchant, and never costs the patrons of his store anything. It
really saves money to them.
The right sort of publicity in this section Is furnished by the ad
vertising columns of The Bulletin. It circulates widely, it goes to the
homes, it contains the news and therefore It Is read. It furnishes the
efficiency In service which the advertiser should insist upon. Investi
gate the proposition and see where it can help you!
During the past week the following matter has appeared in the
columns of The Bulletin:
Bulletin
Saturday, Mar. 4 .
Monday, Mar. 6 .
Tuesday, Mar. 7.
Wednesday, Mar. 8.
Thursday, Mar. 9 .
Friday, Mar. 10.
Totals 559
ports brought here today by scouts.
American military authorities were
Impatient for orders to cross the
border and assail the bandit leader
before he had time to retreat farther
into the Interior of Chihuahua.
With plenty of cavalrymen availa
ble tonight. Colonel Slocum and his
officers were convinced that an order
to cross the line now would mean a
quick disposition of Villa,
When Major Frank Thompklns, of
the Thirteenth cavalry, with hardly
200 men, took up the pursuit of the en
tire Villa force estimated at 2,400 men
yesterday, the Mexicans fled fifteen
miles. Six troops of cavalrp were
ready and eager tonight to renew the
chase.
Residents of Columbus at High Ten
sion. Meanwhile residents of the town of
Columbus were in a state of high ten
sion tonight. A repprt today that
Villa had recrossed the border and
surrounded the town stampeded nearly
all the inhabitants.
Every man in Columbus and even
small boys were alert throughout the
day, armed with rifles and revolvers.
Guns captured from Mexicans when
the American troops drove them from
the town supplied arms for many ot
the civilians.
Tonight the report that Villa again
was advancing gained currency. Arm
ed civilians, supplanting the two pa
trols put out by the military authori
ties, fired shots at everything that ap.
peared to move In the desert brush
surrounding the town.
"Put Out the Lights."
Shouts of "Put out the lights" rang
through the streets and military
camps at 7.30 o'clock, but half an hour
later there appeared no sign that Vil
la had reached the boundary with his
army. The entire military force at
the disposal of Colonel Slocum was
ready, rowever, for a fight at a mo
ment's notice.
During the day after It became
known that the United States govern
ments had decided to send troops in
to Mexico after Villa, army officers
sent their wives and other women rel
atives away. With civilian women
alarmed by reports of another Villa
attack, departures numbered scores.
A squad of cavalry sent out today
to investigate a report that Villa sol
diers had crossed the border and sur
rounded a patrol of the 70th cavalry,
returned tonight with a report that no
Mexicans had been seen this side ot
the border.
Mexican, Who Failed to Halt, Killed.
At 8 o'clock a report was received
at headquarters of the Thirteenth
cavalry that firing heard a few min
utes earlier east of .the town was the
result of the failure of a Mexican to
halt on order of a patrol. The Mex
ican was killed. A few minutes later
the lights again were turned on in
the cavalry camp and the town.
Mexicans Rounded Up.
A number of Mexicans rounded. up
by military patrols were examined to
day and tonight because of the sus
picion that they had furnished in
formation to Villa. A few were held
on charges of espionage.
One of the Mexicans, who gave his
name as Pablo Gonzales, wore over
alls over a Mexican uniform. He in
sisted, however, that he waa a peace
ful rancher bat was held in the mil
itary guardhouse with a number og
other suspects. Several -of those lib
erated were escorted to the border and
told to cross, with the injunction not
to come back. It is understood that
listing all suspected Mexicans and
are prepared to order a general
roundup. -
Fall of Ice Laden
Roof Injures Two
PROTRUDED OVER SIDEWALK ON
MIDDLE STREET, BRIDGEPORT.
SOME NARROW ESCAPES
r .
Louis Mutants, With Hia Three Little
Children, Was Caught Under Edge,
but Held It Till Little-Ones Got Out.
Bridgeport, Conn., March 10. Two
persons were seriously injured this
evening when an iron sidewalk rooting
on Middle street collapsed under a
weight of snow and ice. George F.
Chambers, 29 a negro, was taken to
a hospital with a broken lge and many
Efficient Service
Telegraph Local General Total
. 94 156 981 1231
., 101 160 270 531
. 87 114 177 378
. 99 140 163 402
. 94 s 124 241 459
. 84 J 167 194 .445
559 N861 2026 3446
contusions about the bodv and head.
Amelia Cuneo, 13. of 123 Middle street,
suffered a broken leg and many
bruises, but was taken home.
Louis Musante, who was passing the
spot with three little children, was
caught under the edge of the falling
roof. He held up the broken mass till
the children got out from under it.
then wriggled loose himself uninjured
except for a few bruises.
Two fire companies were called and
tore and chopped the debris to pieces,
searching for other possible victims.
GEN. FUNSTON SENDS REPORT
TO WAR DEPARTMENT.
Offers to Personally Command Troops
for Relentless Pursuit of Bandits.
Washington, March 10. In a report
late hla afternoon General Funston
told tne war department he had ac
curate information that Villa had 3.000
troops with him, that Carranza troops
in his vicinity had fled, and that he
advised against frittering away the
time of the army guarding small
towns- wnne villa might have an on
portunity to escape. He advised that
tne plans or the army for Villa's cap
ture be surrounded with secrecy for the
saKe oi tneir success.
The text of the despatch from Gen
era! Funston follows:
"It is the opinion of Colonels Dodd
and Slocum, in which I concur, that
unless Villa Is relentlessly pursued and
his forces scattered he will continue
raids. As troops of Mexican govern
ment are accomplishing nothing, and
as he can consequently make his
preparations and concentrations with
out being disturbed, he can strike at
any point on the border. We belnz un
able to obtain advance information as
to his whereabouts.
"If we fritter away the whole com
mand guarding towns, ranches and
railroads, it will accomplish nothing
If he can find safe refuge across the
une after every raid. Although nrob
ably not more than l,00ii took part in
Columbus raid, he is believed to have
about 3,000. Even if he should not
continue raids, he has entered on a pol
icy of merciless killing of Americans in
Mexico.
"To show apathy and gross ineffi
ciency of Mexican government troope,
an American woman held prisoner by
Villa for nine days, but who escaped
in Columbus fight, states that during
an that time n was undisturbed at
no great distance from border collect
Ing a force of about 3.000. The few
Carranza troops in the region fled, los
ing all contact with him, and not even
Informing us as to his whereabouts.
"If it is proposed to take action
suggested, I recommend no Information
be given out, in order that wo may
stand some chance of surprising.
Tf desired, I shall personally com
mand. It would be desirable to re
place as soon as possible from avail
able cavalry in the United States the
cavalry taken from the border.
(Signed)
"FUNSTON."
FRENCH DEPUTES EXPRESS
CONFIDENCE IN GOVERNMENT
Affirm Resolution Regarding Requisi
tioning of Merchantmen.
Paris, March 10. 6:30 p. m. The
Chamber of deputies today unanimous
ly adopted a resoluion expressing con
fidence in the government. Th ereo
lution was passed after an interpella
tion regarding the requisitioning of
merchantmen for the use of the array.
In which connection some criticisms of
the marine ministry developed.
Condensed Telegrams
The French liner Espagne arrived
at Bordeaux from New York.
The Kendall block in North AttJe
boro waa burned. Loss about $25,000.
Fred T. Jane, naval author and Journ
alist, died at Southsea, England, axed
45.
The British fishing boat Young Har-
... nog utcu uuniL. i ne crew was sav
ed. Tha MiuU.inKi .1..--
leans. which has been at flood stage, la
receding.
All Grmn. liwinM - .
. - .,, kuyai nave
been ordered by German consuls to
An extra dividmmA a . .
- rr want, wig
declared on the common stock of the
ounaara screw (Jo.
The Turkish Chamber of Deputies
has extended to B0 years the age limit
.v. iiiuiiai ecrvice.
u ?,","t,nn!a' Ha" an1 several other
buildings at Pottsville Pa, were
burned at a loss of $100,000.
King Constantine of Greece has
granted an audience to Eleulherios
enizelos, former Prime Minister.
England will issue a proclamation
next week calling to the colors mar
ried men between the ages of 27 and
3d.
Seventy guests were driven In their
night clothes from the Widell Hotel.
Toledo, by a fire that caused 110 000
damage.
Following the blizzard at Calumet,
Mich., In which 8 inches of snow fell,
railroads there have resumed their
schedules.
Warehouses and large quantities of
stores were destroyed by a great fire at
Muonchen-Gladbach. a town In Rhen
ish Irussla,
Tha Turkish I natinn . A , I j
nied the reports of the death or the!
BiLssinaiion oi tnver Pasha, Turkish
War Minister.
The Britimh W.r-
In London for the second time within
36 hour. Th Pnunlur r.f A.
attended the session.
Coroner John J. Phali f
mado public declared that 196 volts of
wiecinciiy Kiiiea james Mansfield In
Shelton last Monday.
Preident Wilson was asked by the
American Meriionn a .unin .
vestigate the patent medicine business
in the United States
Announcement was' made by the
Postal TelcgraRb-Cbie Co. of the re
sumption of cble Hervira with PIi
and Anchorage, Alaska.
State Department officials have re
ceived reports stating that Felix Dial.
Mexican revolutionary leader is in
hiding in New Orleans.
Several hundred tons of coal were
destroyed by fire on the Harbor Junc
tion wharf of the New Haven rail
road at Providence. R. I.
Fifteen alleged bucketshops located
in towns in western Pennsylvania were
raided by the state constabulary, as
sisted by federal authorities.
The Swiss Postal Department has
decided to send mail for America
mruugn trermany ana Holland instead
of by way of France and England.
The Overseas News Agency an
nounced that 2 800 exhibitors took part
in the Leipsic fair, which Just closed.
The fair was visited by 28,000 buyers.
An order for S1.22S,000 worth of
motor trucks for commercial use n
Great Britain was received by the
Gramm- Bernstein Co., of Lima, Ohio.
Hundreds of persons in southwest
ern England have been made homelses
by inundations as a result of the over
flow of rivers caused by heavy snow
storms.
The upper house of the Swedish
Parliament refused to consider pro
posals from Individual members for
the inerventlon of Sweden . to obtain
peace in Europe.
If New York's National Guard
should be called to go to Mexico or up
on other service, approximately SO
per cent, of the 17.000 men could be
under canvas within 24 hours.
Former President Taft, speaking on
the' Monroe Doctrine at a dinner of the
Unitarian Club at Boston, said he was
glad a sufficient force of United States
troops was being sent after Villa.
A Lloyd's dispatch from Malta re
ports that the Peninsular Sc Oriental
liner Nellore. with fire aboard, was
beached The fire was extinguished,
and the mails and passengers removed.
The Australian government has sent
a request to the American ambassa
dor to Turkey that he arrange for the
care of the graves of Australian sol
diers buried on the Gallipoll peninsula.
Turkey has abolished, for the dura
tion of the war. the import duties on
petroleum, sugar, coffee, rice, drugs,
watches, linens, and other articles the
government may regard as necessary.
Martial law war declared at Carta
gena, Spain, following 86 hours of riot
ing by strikers a', the La Union Found
ry. Five strikers were killed and 11
wounded when they attacked the
foundry. .
A report received from Petrograd
says that a representative of California
and English syndicates has purchased
for 113.000000 at auction 252 deposits
of gold and platinum in the Ural
Mountains.
One thousand section hands em
ployed on the Reading Railway were
notified of an increase In wages or
one cent an hour. The men will re
ceive 19 cents an hour and work ten
hours a day.
According to the newspaper - Ecrho
Beige, a German courtmartlal has sen
tenced Count Cornet Belgian priest at
Belgian priest at Etterbeek. to five
year'a imprisonment for denouncing the
Germans from the pulpit.
Private Jeese Taylor, of Troop F
Thirteenth cavalry, died at the post
hospital at Fort Bliss yesterday as the
result of an obdominal wound re
ceived in the fighting at Columbus
ThttTBdaflr. .
VILLA'S ELIMINATION;
TASK OF U.S. TROOft
aassaaseMasa-a-eBee-a.MBBB, n
American Troops Are Ordered Across Mexican
Border by President Wilson r
TO TAKE VILLA AND BANDITS DEAD OR ALIVE
American Troops Are Expected to Move Into Mexico Today
Cavalry to Scour Mountains, Deserts, Sage Brush and
Arroyos in Quest of the Outlaws General Funston Has
Offered to Personally Command the Expedition Con
gress is in Complete Accord With President Wilson's
Action Secretary of War Baker Intimates American
Troops Will. Remain in Mexico Until the de Facto Gov
ernment is Able to Handle Affairs Little Likelihood of
National Guardsmen Being Called Upon.
Washington. March 10. American 1
troops were ordered across the Mexi
can border today by President AVilson
to take Francisco Villa and his ban
dits dead or alive.
Under the d.rection. if not actually
the leadership of Major General Funs
ton, who ended the Philippine insur
rection by taking Aguinaldo single
hand.-d. American columns are ex
pected to be moving Into Mexico be
fore tomorrow night. They go to
meet about 3.000 guerilla troops in a
mountaincus region from which Car
ranza troops have fled.
Whether this long deferred armed
action, which begins purely as a pu
nitive measure to clear northern Mex
ico of menacing bandit bands over
which General Carranza has no con
trol, shall grow into a general armed
Intervention or occupation in Mexico
depends In a large measure upon Gen
eral Carranza and the Mexican peo
ple. In Aid of Carranza Government.
It besrins with President Wilson's
declaration that it ia entirely In aid
of the Carranzagovernment and with
out thought of "aggreeeion."
Abandona Watchful Waiting.
President WMaon'a decision to de
part from the policy of watchful
waiting, hastened by the Columbus
massacre yesterday, was announced
today today after it hd been unani
mously approved by the cabinet and
administration leaders in congress.
The president's position was explain
ed fully to the latter, who agreed that
he should rot be embnrassed at this
time by discussions of a. minority
which might arouse trouble in Mexico.
Determined to Eliminate Villa.
After a brief cabinet meeting nt
which the president was described as
being as determined to eliminate Vil
la as he was to eliminate Huerta. Sec
retory Baker hurried to the war de
partment and his first act in office
sent orders to the border troops.
Conference of Army General Staff.
Soon afterward the army general
staff assembled and conferred over the
plans. long drawn and perfected since
the Mexicnn situation loomed up as a
disturber to the peace of the United
States. General Funston telegraphed
urcing utmost secrecy of the army
plans. The border is honeycombed
with Mexican npies and it was agreed
that the expedition would be pushed
to success by keeping Villa and his
men ignorant of its movements. It is
possible that no correspondents will
be permitted to accompany the col
umns. At any rate a strict censorship
will be imposed.
Garrison's Services Accepted.
Former Secretary Garrison, famil
iar with the army's Mexican plans by
his association with the crisis of two
yenrs riro. came to Washington and
offered his services to aid ht succes
sor. They were at once accepted and
Mr. Garrison went into conference
with Si-cretary Baker at the war de
partment. No Comment From Carranza.
General Carranza In a telegram to
the state department expressed regret
at the Columbus massacre but made
no comment on the proposal of send
ing American troops to hunt down the
bandits. Fliseo Arredondo. his am
bassndor hre. was officially informed
of the American government's action.
He only replied fhat he would com
municate with his chief. He has pre
viously expressed the personal opinion
that the govement would not be op
posed. State department officials declined
to say wh.it their attitude would be
if General Carranza took a hostile po
sition. They atid the -United States
would settle that question when it
arose. If an offer of co-operation of
the Carranza troops is made they said
it could hardly be refused.
5,000 Carranza Troops Hunting Villa.
" Today General Carranza ordered
5.000 troops from various garrisons to
move upon the Villa forces. The ef
fect of their advance probably would
be to keep the Villa bandits near the
border, but Secretary Lansing an
nounced during the day that no mat
ter how fnr into Mexico it was neces
sary for American forces to penetrate
or to what numbers it became neces
sary to increase their force, the Unit
ed States would consider the expedi
tion a punitive one. solely for the sup
pression of outlaws. For such an ex
pedition there is ample precedent in
international law and in fact, in the
relations of the United States with
Mexico.
To Scout Mountains and Deserts.
How many of the 11.000 troops now
on the border will be employed has not
fully been determined. The general
plan will be to distribute the infan
try to gu.ird the border towns, whils
the cavalry will be released for scour
ing the mountains, deserts, sage brush
and arroyos. In order not to weaken
the defense of border towns it may
be necessary to move other troops
from interior posts to the border.
no v,aii Tor nat.onai butrd.
No prospects of using the National I
Guard exists in the situation tonight -
but a larger scale of operations would
involve it.
No Orders Given to the Navy.
No orders have been given to the
navy. The fleet with more than 10,000
bluejackets and marines available for
landing duty is on the winter drill
ground off Guantanamo within easy
saaling distance of Mexican waters,
should anti-American demonstrations
or uprisings endanger Americans or
other foreigners.
While the government count the
naval force as available, there ia every
disposition to do nothing in the way
of a naval demonstration which might
be regarded as menacing Carranza,
from whom the United States hope
and expects co-operation, passive at
least, if not active.
Congress Receives Newt) With Com
placency. In sharp contrast to the stirring
scenes in congress two years ago what
the fleet was ordered to Vera Crux,
the president's action today waa re
ceived with marked complacency In
win nouse anq senate, -Jiemuarajyu
prciwrra iu mane speecnes urging ac
tion but when word went around that
the president had ordered in tbe
troops, expressions of approval were
heard on toth aides of the chambers.
To Let President Deal With Situation.
Senators Fall and McCumber. re
publicans, both Introduced resolutions
proposing occupation and policing of
Mexico with large forces, but they
consent to ermlt them to be referred
to the foreign relations committee
without debate. The pleas of the ad
ministration leaders to let the preel
den deal with the situation in its pres
ent phase seemed to be acceptable all
around.
President Outlined Hia Position.
The president outlined his position
fully to Senator Stone and Represen
tative Flood, chairman of the foreign
affairs committee. Soon after Mr.
Flood informed the house committee
and Senator Stone called a meeting of
the senate committee for tomorrow
morning for the same purpose. Tfce
object of the administration leaders
will be to prevent as far as possible
all discussion in congress and to
block any action which might inter
fere with the president to serve to in
dicate that the United States ia en
gar ed in more than a purely punitive
expedition. ,
In his action today, it is pointed out,
the president Is fully within his con
stitutional authority to repel Inva
sion. After his conference with the preM
dent Secretary Baker Issued the fol
lowing statement
Statement by Secretary Baker,
"There is no Intention of entering
Mexico in force. A sufficient body of
mobile troops will be sent in to locate
and disperse or rapture the bacd; OT
bands that attacked Columbus.- Aa
soon as the forces of the de" facto
government can take control of the
situation any forces of the Unkod
States then remaining in Mexico will
of course be withdrawn. The forces
of the United States now on the bor
der will be Immediately recruited, but
only for the purpose of safeguarding
the territory of the United States frvm
further raid."
Secretary Baker explained that by
"recruited" referring to the present
border forces, he meant that move
ments of troops along the border or of
regiments from the interior supple
ment the border control were not to
be construed as a mobilization for any
extensive movement into Mexico. He
indicated there would be no campaign
to recruit the regular army from peace
to war strength.
A CONCERTED EFFORT
TO CORNER VILLA
Is Being Made by Troops of the Car
ranza Government. .
Columbus. X. H, March 10. The
disposition f the troops of the Car
ranza government in the statew of
Chihuahua and Sonora within the last
24 hours Indicated that a concerted
effort has been started to corner Villa
in northwest Chihuahua. -
General Calles at Agua Prieta saM
he had disposed his forces along. the
railroad from Nacozarl to guard the
mountain passes through which Villa
and his force might be expected to
pass westward into Sonora.
General Callea, with 200 mounted
men. moved eastward from Agua Prie
ta. aiming to secure that side of the
trap which la being laid to capture the
outlaw in the mountains to the east.
Two detachments of mounted men
from the forces of General Gebriel
Givlna at Juarez are reported moving
In conjunction with Callee troope to
complete the eastern aide of the net.
The forces of Genera Gaiterres ot
Chihuahua were gvardlnr against a
southward movement by Villa and hie
column. . .. .
Wlnetad. SeventT-rren theisVi
gallona of water have been let into toe1
new swimming pool of T. M. C. Aj
.
