ifiHb ijlmnt
NIGHT
EXTRA
itmmm
NIGHT
EXTRA
- : : - c .."
PHILADELPHIA, SATUBDAY, MAIIOII 11, 1010.
SO. 154
CoMBtonr, 1010, it in Foiuo tieon Cokrir.
PRIOH ONE GENT 0
5
VOL. II.-
It
GERMANS GAIN
PART OF VAUX,
PARIS ADMITS
French Hold Western Part
of Village Repulse At
tacks on Fort
1 BATTLE ALONG AISNE
Crown Prince Gains Trench
West of Meuse, but Is
nrivnn Out
m . "
BERLIN, March 11. By an unex
pected attack against French lines in
the vicinity of Khcims, the Germans
haie penetrated French positions to a
depth of nearly two-thirds of n mile
on a 1100-ynrd front, the War Office
announced this afternoon. The gain
wa9 made southwest of the Villc au
In this engagement 737 French pris
oners, five machine guns and 13 mine
throwers were captured, it was offi
cially stated.
West of the Meuse, the War Office
reported, French troops have been
cleared from the Corbcaux and Cu
miercs Woods, and French positions
around Goose Hill are now in peril.
French counter-attacks broke down,
the War Office stated.
PA ItlS Maich 11
lieiman ftnopi lenowed theh violent
.aulti cm the Verdun front wot of the
Steu-e during the night They weie able
" caln some ground In tho opening as
saults, hut an immediate counter-attack
by the Krench diove them back
This offlclal Infoi mation is given In the
War Ofllce communique Issued this after
noon, which also states tli.it tho Germans
have redoubled their efforts on the east
hank of the Mouse between niix and the
rldge ntarbj Tort Do Vnu was also
bombarded
The text nf the olllclal communique Col-
' After bombarding our positions be
tween Troyon and Berry-au-Bae, north of
the Alsne for several hours yestcid.iy.
the Germans ilcbou-hed fiom Ville-au-Bols
and attacked the salients which form
our line at Bols Des Buttcs After a very
fbarp combat w-o diove the enemy from
th section northwest and from tho sec
tion west of the forest which he had suc
ceeded, in occupving.
nmvnx from tiusxcii
"West of the Mouse the Germans
launched during the night it strong at
tack southwest of Bcthincouit ngainit
our trenches along tho road from Bethln
court to riiattancourt. An Immediate
cduntor-nttack again gave us complete
control of an impoit.int communicating
tfench whlcli they had -ucceeded In pen
etrating '1-ast of the Mouse the enem ledoubled
Ills efToits between the Ullage and the
lldge of Fort Do Vau Tlio bombaidment
continued all night witli great iolemo
and- numcious Inf.intiy assaults wen
made against the Ullage, which lias been
wrecked b shells
The eneinv captuied some houses east
of the chin til All his attacks weiu
clinked In the western pait of the Ullage,
where we aio still holding out following
tonllnned on I'nsr I 'our, C'liluiiin Twn
MPORTAFOGLIOSARA'
OFFERTO A BISSOLATI?
Nuove Voci di Uri Gabinetto di )
Coalizione La Battaglia '
Attorno a Verdun
Vu dispatch) da Miiauo a I loudiuese
"Dallj Jlail" dlto the nei giuppl parhi
mentarl Itallaul lontlnun 1'agitazione per
un rhnpaito minlstcrlnlc nel senso dl
avere un gabinetto dl coalizione. II dls
pacclo dice die I boelallsti rlforinistl vor
rebbero Leonld.t Blssolntl. die or.v o" ten
ant In un regglniento dl Alptnl alia fronte,
compreso nel ministero dl coalizione, o 11011
(' Improbablle clie un portnfoBiio gn sl.i
otterto prima cho bl chluda la piesento
Msslone
I.e notizie c.ie gluugoiiK dalla ..onto
ftancese dl Veidun bono liuone I tedeschi
Upclano nncora all'assaltn dl poslzonl
funcesl enorml masse dl uomiiil nelle
fliall 1 tllfcnsorl uietouo abbondante
meiite n crltico mllltaro del Temps cal
wkt, clia i)el venti glornl delta- battaglla
Jl Verdun gll alleati abblano mebso funrl
oi combattltnento 0,000 tedeschi ul
rlorno. A Purlgl geueralmente si crede
cho la vlttorU del tedeschi rt Veidun e'
final Impossible Gil alleati hanno sull.i
fronte suMclentl force con cul rcspiiigeio
rl attacchi ed in rlbciva leglonl frcsctie a
Mmerose per I'azlone tlnale. II l.ionprinz
Prepara con auol folll attacchi la ia
a Vlttoiiu degll aleati cho rlspainilaiio
l lore- forze v non cettano gll uomlul
Mile bocche racl del cannonl o delle
Wltragllatricl
(Leggere in a jiaglna altro e plu' det
wJllate notizie sullu guernt, .:i italiano.)
THE WEATHER
FOHUCAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
fair and continued cold tonight with
mint about 25 degrees; Sunday in.
;,i"",fl c'"rfiC8s and somewhat
Mrmer; moderate westerly winds be
mlng variable Sunday,
. ur ueiuus see page 4.
XOST AND FOUND
teiweln mW'I' Friday evenlus. March a.
Miweeo Hltteniiouiia .Quare and lllu-Carl
fciDDhlr.. !ifin" . B. diamonds and 11 aquara
"ard i?U?f0tt0,.'!ll In .Platinum. Literal re.
Sii'lT? "tv'' evenlnir. March T. In
K afeiu. j0."' .? ""an'ond nd Platinum bar
J"n-. utb and Qlrord ae.
ttSShi? P'N' l-ot. iaiimond'p'hTwTth""p'ia7l
cSKE?ir'irHe,',?' nlnhV In or near Ifont.
tw l'i1-. wafd K returned to J. B.
Ur Lot Ba r0Uod Ada on I'aie IS
Pictures of Star
BRIG. GEN. J. J. PERSHING
Placed in active charge of the
punitive expedition against Villa.
He will take the field with the
United States troops.
CARRANZA YIELDS
TO ENTRY BY U. S.;
ASKS SAME RIGHT
Wants Privilege of Chasing
Bandits Into Anierican
, States, if Needed
'GET VILLA,' IS THE ORDER
WASHINGTON Mb tch 11. The fnited
States encounter no opposition fiom
Piolional PieHidcnt Cuianzn in its pun
Itho expedition iiRnint Vlll.i If It will
ngieo Hint the (111nnza Goernment en
joys a similar ilRht to cross Into Amerl
can tetiitoiy at will In puisult of Jlcxlcnn
bandits In similar circumstances Tills wns
tlio 0fIlei.1I attitude assumed by General
Canaii7a In a note transferred to the
State Depaitinent today from Consul Sllll
man, who is with Carranza .-it Guadaln
jara. The dlKpatcli f 10111 Mi Sillimaii sas
that lie was nuthorired to nend the mes
!..iro otitllnlnfT the C.iii.mza attltudo by
Jlexlcitn J-'orclgii Secretary Ai'iinu. The
telegram from Sninian Is as follons-
KIHST rillKK'S ATTITUDH
In due leply to jour polite note
dated jesteiday and foi warded to
dnj liy John W. Heit, I liave the
honor to Inform ou that upon my
making the said note known to the
I'ltieu 111 st thief of the Constitution
alist aimyln cliaiRe of the executlo
jiotti1!' of tlio nation lie directed me to
a that jou 111.1 be pleased to lepoit
to the DepaiOnent 01 Stato of the tho
(.uwrimicnt of the I'nitPil Mates that
he is grieed to hear (omission') the
town of Columbus N' JI.. on tho oc
casion of tho attack, it suffered jester
day from the bandits led by Vr.incl&co
Villa, tli.it, althoiiqli theie has been
In the State of chihuahua u sulllclent
lime to lestoio older and afford bu.u
iinteos to nationals and foreigneis
"luce Kraneisco Villa began operations
In the mountain', of that State, on the
icsiuust of the l!oeinor of the State
and of the Constitutional Consul at
Ml Paso, To , the llrbt chief issued
In time 01 del j fot :!uU0 men under the
command nf General l.ula Gutleiicz
to baly forth under Instiuctlons to
pu-htie tlio bandits who liao Just
eiossed into our t-iltoiy of the
I'nllcd States, whlih they weie no
duubl compelled to do when peislst
enti pursued b the said foiees.
Tho deplorable Incident that has
Just occuired beats borne lesemblance
to the lalds effected by Indians fiom
tho reseiMitlona of the Goernment of
the I'nlted States Into the States of
Sonora and Chilhuahua In 1880 and
1884 to 1886,
crossing or ranniTonr.
In both those cites an agreement
between the iloernments of tlio
United States and Jlctico provided
that aimed forces of eltliT country
could freely cross Into the territory
of the other to pursue and chastise
those bandh.
Hearing In mind 'those piecedents
and tlio happy lesults to both coun
tries sleWed by the agreement above
lefened to, tho Government over
whlcli the citizen flist chief inesides,
desiring to exterminate In as little
time possible tho horde led by Fran
cisco Villa, who was recently out
lawed, to captuie and inflict upon him
the penalty of the law, applies
through you honorable Mr. Confiden
tial Agent to the Government of the
United States and asks tho permis
sion necessary to lot Mexican forces
cross into American territory in pur
suit of those bandits acknowledging
due reciprocity in regard to forces of
tho United States crossing Into Mex
ican tcritory which tho raid effected
at Columbus should unfortunately be
lepeated at any other point of the
border
The Government of Mexico .would
higlilj appreciate a prompt and favor
able decision from the Government of
the United States.
Be pleaEed to accept, Mr. Confiden
tial Agent, iny respectful, distin
guished consideration.
ACUNA
In charge of the Pepaittnent of For
eign Helatlons.
CAMPAIGN WEM, UNDER WAV.
Tlio campaign to "get Villa" was well
under way today, according to the high
oflicials of tHe W'ar Department They re
fused to permit publication of any infor
mation of what has been done, but It was
generally accepted that the 1st Cavalry
Brigade, Brigadier General James Baiker
commanding, the Sd Cavalry Brigade, Col
onel George1 A. Do'dd commanding, and
other units already are on the move. It
Is believed some of the troops already have
crossed the border
Because the enure bjrder Is honey-
Continued on l'ate To. Column Sir
Athletes in Meadowbrook 'f amea Tonight on
SEVEN AMERICANS ;
U1NUAIUV SUWV til
U-BOAT; ALL SAFE
Nation Whose Flag Subma
rine Flew to Be Held to
Account, Official View
KAISER'S CRAFT, BELIEF
Norse Ship Thought Unarmed.
May Start New Sea
War Controversy
WASHINOTON, March 11.
The Norwegian bark Slllus, New York
to Havre, Willi seven Americans aboard,
was torpedoed without warning, on Thurs
day night, in the Havre roads
A State Department message from the
Havre Consul was the first howb of tho tor
pedoing All Amei leans were saved
Tlio dcpaitmeut had word also of tlio
torpedoing of tho Piencli steamship Louis
lane, without fuitlier detail
News that a submarine had sunk a
ship Willi Amei leans on board, without
w. lining, brought an unofficial declaration
from tlio Stato Department that the na
tion whose flag the submarine flew will
be held to account
Taking tin- niengip dispatch at its faco
value, Dtllcinls fiankly declared that tlio
Power tile underhea boat represented will
be railed to accountability for tho act. It
is believed tlio I'-boat was Geimnn
Secretniy Lansing will not act officially
until he has complete details. He mus't
have affidavits 01 passengeiH ami rcw
showing bevond ' lensonable doubt" that
it was a toipedo and not a mine or In
ternal explosion tI1.1t sent the Slllus to tho
bottom and endangcied the lives of Anier
ican cltiens Such affidavits cannot leach
iiere, officials said, much before a week
or 10 davs.
That the Slllus was unarmed was gen
eially taken for granted, since she was a
t neuuai snip or commerce Tills fact. In
I itself, officials said, may make the caso
more soiious than any that has confront
ed this Government Blnce the war began
N'o Government ever has even hinted
that mm-conibatanls clthci neutral or
belllgeient liavo not tho right to travel
on the high seas aboard neutral vessels
Uvcn If tho submarine commander af
foided tlie p.iTengei.s and crew the meas
ures of safety which Teutonic Powors
have assured the I'nlted States would bo
given In case of warranted attack on bel
ligerent passenger ships, tho United
States, It can be stated, will not bo sat
isfied. If tho attitude of tlio President
and Secretary Lansing, as frequently ex
pressed In foimal notes to tho Teutonic
nations, has not changed and officials
declared today it lias not changed the
Vnlted States must Insist 011 disavowal,
reparation and condign punishment for
the offending submaiine commander.
If such demands are mnde It Is firmly
believed they vlll be accompanied by ap
inslbtent icimcst that they bo granted
without hesitation and without tho pailey
and exchange of fotmal notes that has
maikod former Incidents
The Sllius was owned by S O Streay S.
Co, of Krlstlansen, N'otwaj and was
bound for Havio with a cargo of gialn
Tlio vescl was of HIS tons, J"7 feet
long it was a steel sailing vessel and
was built in IM'3 A slstci ship Is now'
ncailng 11 Biltlsh.port with 11 cargo of
grain Tlio Identlt.v nf tli Americans
nboaul could not be learned
The N'oivveslau-Aineilcan Linn officials,
who icpicbdit the nvvnoiH 111 New Yolk,
stated positively that the Slllus was not
ill med
j
The Sillus Is the (list vessel sunk with
Amei leans on boaid since the new Geiman
submuiiuo decree became opeiatlve on
.Match 1
Loudon dispatches last night hiought
uoid of the sinking of the Slllus. hut made
110 mention of the fact that Americans
weie aboaid. Thiee of the cicw were
dtowned, it was stated, Tlio Loudon
cables meiely btnted that tlio .ship was
"sunk," in accordance with the recent policy-
of the Biltlsli cenhor In eliminating
in neailv eveiy Instnnco lefeience to sub
mai lues
Y0KK FAMILY SAFE AFTKK
.MEXICAN KAXUITS' ATTACK
Wife mid Children of Captain Smyser
Narrowly Escaped Death
The safety of Captain Rudolph 13
Smyser, his wlfo and two sons, natives
of York, Pa , who were In Columbus when
Villa and his bandits made the laid In the
New Mexico town, lias been assured In n
telegiam received by J. W Ramsey, of
1136 South 31bt .street Captain Smyser
Is in command of Troop If, 13th N S
Cavalry.
The wife, which asserted that "evety
thlug had been lost," also leported that
Mrs Smser and the two children were
on theit way to Mis. Smvber's parents,
Mr and Mis. U S. Crulge. at Leavcn
woitli, Kansas
The fnmHv ebcaped death by a naiiovv
margin Tho bandits vvero about to set
fire to the hai racks stable, into which
Mrs Smiser nnd the children had been
becreted, when the captain's troops fired
at them.
Captain Smvset Is a bon of Mr. and
Mis L. F. Smjser. of York, The family
vvero here last jear as the guests of Mr.
and Mrs. Ramsey. The rhildieu aro Ru
dolph 13. S1115 ser and Cralge Smyser.
U. S. CAVALRY AT MONTEREY
LEAVES FOR MEXICO FRAY
SAN FRANCISCO. March 11 The
1st United States avalry stationed at the
presidio of Monterery left today by special
train for the Mexican border. General
Hell, commander of the western division
of the army, received tho order to en
train eaily todaj.
With the troopers went an ambulance
corps and 30 members of tho commissary
department including cooks and bakers.
SENATE COMMITTEE INDORSES
ACTIOXOK MEXICAN CRISIS
WASHINGTON. March II A stand
squarely approving al( the Administra
tion has done along the Mexican border
was taken today by the Senate Foreign
Relations -Committee. After Chairman
Stone had called them together to give
them the official news of what the Kxecu
tlve Department had done, the members
gave unanimous Indorsement
VILLA CUT OFF
TOAADC! im iucu ta att a fir
General Pershing to Lead U. S. Forces
Into Mexico to Round Up Outlaw
Leader and His Band, Now
in Chihuahua' District
Campaign Laid to Close in
La Ascension Villa Expected to Retreat to His
Old Stronghold in Treacherous Mountains
EL PASO, Texas, March 11.
Francisco Villn, upon whose head the United Stntes has put a ptico for j
the murder of Americans along the Mexican frontier, has been defeated in I
his attempt to cut off a trninload of Americans fleeing from Chihuahua state.
Carranza troops intercepted his bnnd.
The Mexican forces, under General Bertani, Carranza leader, cut off j
the bandits from the railroad in the district about La Ascension.
According to General Bertani, he is working in unity and co-operating in
every way with Colonel Slocum, commanding the American forces at Colum
bus. He has established his headquarters at Paloma, diicctly across the
American border from Columbus, K.
declares that yesterday, on his arrival
his troops took up the Villa trail
leaders. Bv hard riding Villa escaped
line, seemingly to try to cut off the Mormon icfugee train, when a portion
of the Carranzista forces got between him and hh destination.
Bertani immediately got into communication with Colonel Slocum and
put him in possession of all his information, which was promptly convened
to General Funston.
Oflicials here weie well pleased with the message from General Beitani.
They said that it meant that Villa's days were numbered and that the most
grave danger that of complications with tho Mexican people generally
had seemingly been avoided.
Conditions of actual warfare prevail here today in preparation of the
movement of American troops to invade Mexico in the punitive campaign
to take Villa and his band of outlaws.
Brig. Gen. John J. Pershing, commander of the 8th Cavalry Brigade,
will lend the punitive expedition against Villa, it was learned at army
hcadpuarters here. Mnj. Gen. Frederick Funston, it was said, will not go
to the border at present.
The bandit leader is reported to be at La Ascension, Chihuahua, in com
mand of a strong force, warned, and prepared for battle.
Both United States troops and forces of the Carranza government will
operate to closo in on the Villistns in the mountainous districts. Information
here is that instead of opposing the entry of American troops, President
Cnrranza welcomes tho assistance and will lend his support to the campaign.
U. S. Troops Will Strike From Three Points.
Reports were received here that tho War Department plans contemplate
entrance into Mexico at Juarez, Columbus and Agua Prieta. Three ,
regiments cavalry, infantry and field artillery will entrain here, it is said, 1
cross the Rio Grando and proceed over the Mexican and Northeastern
railway to Casas Grnndes. There they will join Cnrranzn troops and work
north toward the border. At the same time n column entering Mexico '
at Agua Prieta will proceed southeastward and a column from Columbus will
move from the north and east.
Geneini Clavir'a. commandet of tho Carrnnzn pnnison at JunreA lecelvcd
word early today that Villa had moved to La Ascension witli a larKe forced of
men. Tt was suspected that Villa was aiming to strike the idiltoad between
Casas Giandes and .lunrez, witli the hope of eaptutliiK 500 Mormons, who had
.stayed at Casas Giandes when other Atncilc.ins loft northern Mc.ico.
Military nutlioi itles at .Tuaie wore notified of Villa's movement southvvaul
towaul tlieXoithvvestein Ilnilro.id line by General llcrtunl. who is In command
of Caiianzlsta soldleis near I'alomus, State of Chihuahua. lie toported that
lii mnlorltv of V1IU outlaws moved in the dhectlon of La Asceucion following
their defeat hy the 13th United States Cavnlr at Columbus Gonetal Bertani ,
said that Villa was with tho column, which numbeiH appioxlmately 2000 men. He
has not taken ills oiliie command, but lias hft a number of btn.ill gioups along
tlio border between Junic. and 11 Paloimt". Several of these bandits have con
tinned theh- lulds t. Amei lean ianehhoui.es oil the Ameiknn side nf tho fiontior,
dilvlng off live stof'. and binning the buildings t
When Villa leceutll passed through the Mm nion colonics .111.010111.1 .Juarez,
Casas Ginndes and other places in the Gaiena district he thientcncd to minder
them if they did not leave .Mexico.
Sinco his defeat nt tho hands of tlio 13th C.ivaliy. Villa liab announced his
intention of conducting n war on all Americans, saving he will neither give nor
ask quarter.
The stieet cais operating lo Juare. were stopped last night by the com
pany on the suggestion of General Gavito. Tho stteets of V Paso weie
patrolled bv a double guard of soldleis nnd policemen.
Brigadier Geneial Pershing is keeping tho rcgulats, In camp at Foil Bliss,
Ho has his men ready to meet any emergency.
It is said lieie that Villa has by this time teceived news of Prcsi-
ARREST MADE IN QUEST
FOR BANDITS WHO SH0T
PAYMASTER AND AIDE
Detectives Take Man Who,
They Say, Answers Descrip
tion of Desperado Trail
Leads to New York
POLICE SEEK "LOOKOUT"
An arret,t was made today of a man
answering in part the description of one
of the two gunmen who esterdny killed
Herman Hastening, paj master of the Ger
mania Worsted Mills, and shot hla ebcoit.
Wnlter Haupt. in a J3500 hold-up that
aroused tho Kensington textile district
He Is John Price, 21 years old. who, tho
police bay, has berved two sears for high
way robbery. After being nuestioned
closely by Lieutenant of Detectives bean
Ion, he was taken to the Upiscopal Hos
pital to be confronted by Haupt, the
wounded man.
Price was arrested in Broad street sta
tion by Detectives Agnew and Heyne. He
wore a brownish cap and tult, corre
sponding to the description of the cloth
ing of the shoiter of the two desperadoes
A black overcoat was the only Jarrlne
feature in his attire. He had no money,
and said he was "knocking around No
address was given Asked where lie was
yesterday, he said he spent the day going
to hospitals for treatment, as he was not
feeling well. , , ,
.t..... Jlnnmant In tha daV 8 W OrK
was the holding without ball of Thomas
Hoben. 2! years old, the provioence, . i.,
suspect, by Magistrate Pennock at the
CoBllniwd on Twp. Column rFoux
BY CARRANZA
FLEEING TO LINE
on Raiders in District Near ,
M. He has 1200 men with him, ami lie
near Palomn, a scouting division 01
..,
and attempted to suriounu tlio mmoiiJ
nnd was moving towaul the rauvvaj.
Continued on 1'iite T110. Column Ona
! ROMANCE SHATTERED
AFTER 20 YEARS, WIFE
CALLS HUSBAND 'CLOSE'
'Every Time He Spends a Nickel
It Wrenches His Heart,"
Says Southerner Who
Sues for Divorce
LOVES HER TWO SONS
The stoiy of how a romance of the
South became vviecked upon the lecfs of
marital Infelicity, was told today by Mrs.
Anne Hanson Gairett, member of an old
and IntluoiUlal Southern faniilj, who has
brought suit for divorce against Robert
Young Gairett, whisky dlbtiller. of Haiti
more Mi's Garrett lives at the Hotel Marlyn,
10th and Walnut streets, this city, witli
her two sons, one 19 ears old and the
other 1- Twenty years ago bhe was mar
ried to Mr Garrett, and she charges that
in 1913 he deserted her and their children,
and has never contributed money for their
biipport Mrs Uarrett has engaged Hd
vvard O. Lewis as iounel.
Her husband was born In Columbus, Ga.,
and started In the whlbky business at Nor
folk, Va.
"My husband," said Mrs Garrett, "is
the closest man in the world; every time
he spends a nickel it wrenches his heart
so that he groans. I don't believe he
would spend 3 cents to see an earthquake.
During the 20 jears of our married life
my father supported us botli "
PROUD OP HUU SONS.
There was a touch of mother's pride In
Mrs. Garrett's olce as she spoke of her
sons
"They
are fine boys." she said, "and
Continued on Fate Two, Column bis
Back Page in
QUICK
BANDIT BELIEVED CAUGHT IN N0RRIST0NWN
Detective ltkh wns &ent to Nonlstown today in response to o
impsi-iri Hint n mnn lielli-vrd 1u be impticnted in the killing of Jler
iii" 11 JCntMilitR nnd the wounding of Walter Hnupt In n 3500 hold-n-i
nri yr.sfpidny. it umlpf nircsi theip. The BUipect wns taken olf
n li'ij'hf train ntinlit II o'rliick Inat ulght.
AMERICANS WARNED FROM MEXICAN DISTRICT
WASHINGTON, Mm oh 11. -Tho State Denaitineut this attcr
noon Issued n warning to Americans to keep away from the Isthmus
of Tckuantepcc, the extreme southern part of Mexico. The Isthmus
tw a narrow stilp of land lyinjr between the Gulf of Mexico and tho
Pacific.
BENSON TO BE SOCIALIST CANDIDATE FOR PRESIDENT
CHICAGO, Mutch 11. Allan I. Uonson, of Yonhois, X. Y.. will be tho
nominee of the Socialist party for President of the United States, and George
I J. Kitltnatilcl., of Xew York city, will tun for tho Vice Presidential nomination
on tlie llckot. This vva! tlio icsult of the Socialist national referendum for
nuniinecH made public hero today.
DR. W. A. SWALM NAMED MEDICAL DIRECTOR
1 ll It'll It.. i t.. ... f InlO
I'l. tllllKllll Wl. Ot'iUllll. JL "tii U
n,(llinI ,ilt,ctol oC (he chil servhu
rnr(.tiv. ),y Councils to take the pUre
medical eamlnei, who weie paid 11 lotal of ?2."00 a year. Tlio new appointee
will tccelve $1800 n je.ir Doctor Swalm was in tlio employ of tho city In
11)13, when he was icsident nt the Philadelphia Hospital for Contagious Diseases,
Ho is now connected with the Jewish and Geiinantow 11 Hospitals. Doctor
Svv.ilm will tuUu olllce Mnieh IS.
WINDOW GLASS PRICES JUMP 10 TO 15 PER CENT.
I'lTTSIlt'IlGH. Man li 11.- Leading machine window glafcs Interests today
announced a geneial inciea.e of from 10 to 15 per cent. In pi ices of all grades
anil sir.es of window glass for the United Slates and Canadian markets, effective
at once.
SUIT AGAINST TRADES UNION PERIODICAL
Suit was staited this inoiiiing against the Uoaul of Directors of the TtadC3
Union Xpvvs, Hip oignn of the labor inteiests here, by tlucc men who were,
elected, they claim, to the boaul at the election lust month, but wcro not
allowed to lake their seats The prosecutois arc Ilimy 'U. Scmple, William
Young and llobeit L. Haines, and the labor men who, it is alleged, refused to
recognize their election lights ate William J. Tracy, Geoige Simmons, Frank
Buit'h. John McDovitt, James C. Cionln, Piank O'Drjan, William J. Boyle and
Leonaid Kiaft. The contest started over the light of tho prosecutors to
vote their pioics into tlucc votes for each of the tluce complainants Instead
of voting for nine men.
AMERICAN WINDOW GLASS INCREASES WAGES
PITTSBURGH. Marcli 11. -The American Window Glass Cgmpany announced
that, effective today, tho wages of all gathoreis and llatteners would bp Increased
73 per cent. The 'land fncloiies announced a similar wage increase last week.
P. & R. SECTION HANDS GET INCREASE
Moto than 1000 section hands on tho Philadelphia and Heading Hallway
have received .111 Inciense in wages to take effect itnn.Ldlately. The men will
now get 19 cents an hour. The increase wns given voluntnilly by the company.
Nearly $3000 a month will be added to the payroll
CLOTHING WORKERS END STRIKE
The stilke of tho membets of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers' Unioh
has terminated. Agieements have been made with a number of smaller manu
factuiers in tlio city and tho strikers will return to work on Monday. An im.
mediate incicase of 10 per cent, in wages, with another live per cent, increass
on April ID is gi anted, together with shoiter hours, by an oiganlzation of con
tiactois that do tho woik for most of the smaller manufacturers.
LUMANIA SEIZES CEREALS SOLD TO GERMANY
LONDON, Match 11. Iluinania has seized 50,000 vv.igoitb of cereals which
had been sold to Germany, according to the Home wiieless s,pi v Ice today. Tha
gtniti Is to lie used by tho Rumanian army. Tills grain was pait or 100,000
wagons of ceicals which had been sold to Germany.
, ALFRED WITSENHAUSEN, CIRCUS TREASURER, DIES
j Word was received from Chicago today of the death of Alfred Wltbcnhausen.
I tieasurer of the Baium & Bailey Circus, following an opciatlon for appendicitis.
Mt. Witsenliausen had been identified with the amusement business since his
bovhood. He was formerly treasurer of the Oljmplc Theatie, Chicago, and
later tho Hlngliug Bi others' Circus. Burinl will be In Chicago. Mr. TVItsen
hauscn is survived by several brothers and sisters, among them Kugene Witsen
hausen, of this city.
GERMAN HYDROAEROPLANES SHELL SLAV SQUADRON
BERLIN, Match 11. German livdioaerophuies bombarded a Russian
squadruu, consisting of one battleship, Ave destroyers, and several merchant
j men, In the lllnck Sea yesterday, It was officially announced today. Hits were
' observed on tho destroyers.
I The attack occurred near Kaliakra, on a pioniontory northeast of the Bui.
I gnilan port of Varna. In spite of a heavy tire the German planes returned
bafely.
BRITISH THANK AMBASSADOR MORGENTHAU
WASHINGTON. March 11. Great Britain's attltudo to Henry Morgenthau.
Ameiicau Ambassador to Turkey, for his services as representative of tho
Uutente Allies at Constantinople, has been expressed to Mr. Morgenthau by the,
British Ambassado: Sir Cecil Spring-Rice, when the Ambassador called at tha
British Embassy to pay his respects.
RAILROAD MEN VOTE 9 TO 1 FOR 8-HOUR DAY
CHICAGO, Mnreh 11. Additional ballots received by the grand chiefs and
Executive Committee of the four train service brotherhoods of the United States
in session hero increased the already overwhelming majority given by the ranH
and tile in favor of a demand for an eight-hour day and time and a half for over
time from all the railroads of the country. It Is stated officially that more than
90 per cent, of the men have voted in favor of the demand for an eight-hour day.
PORTUGAL TO TAKE PART IN AFRICAN CAMPAIGN
LONDON, March 11. Portuguese troops will co-operate with the British
foiees in the campaign against German East Africa, the last of Germany's colonial
possessions, tho first result of Germany's declaration of war against Portugal.
Lieutenant General Jan Christian Smuts, commanding tho expedition against
German East Africa, has reported the occupation of Taveta and also of Salaita, It
Is ofticlally announced.
JAPAN STIRRED BY BRITISH SHIP SEIZURES
TOKIO, March 11. The Anglo-Japanese Alliance is now being- put to th
test on account of persistent searchlngs of Japanese steamships by British
cruisers. When the first news that tha Tenyo Maiu ba4 been searched by tha
British, resulting in carrying away nine Indian passengers, was received,
btrangeiy enough there was no excitement worth mentioning. But the earns
tieatment repeated has resulted in popular indignation against the British action,
which is now considered an Insult to the Japanese nag. The Imperial Govern
ment, it is believed, will be obliged to allow free hand to the British navy
in the Far East.
Sports Extra- and Final Editions
NEWS
Vnli t "III. nnn nn tnflnt ntvnnlnlAil
1U1 III J Hill OlltXIi t tlO lUUil UUI'VllllCU
Commission. Tills position was created
of chief mcdicul eamlner and assistant
I
alilKBlMiiafcMftiyirrrir-jtfcgjI
