aft. i t r -4 rim - r a y r i-n
SUDDEN DRIVE
EDITION
" Circulation Books Open to All."
) "Circulation Hook a Open to AM."
PRICE ONE CENT.
Coprrijlit. HUH, l.r Thp rrtu I'uhlUlilnr
4'n, (Tlio Nrw Vork World I .
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 1916.
12 PAGES
IN CHAMPAGNE
VoLKMAlNo MARL
WEATHER Flr to-night) clear and wtrmtr Sunday.
WEMML
mm
M
JU ' II wV W
PRICE O.TE CENT.
PERSHING LEADS
ACROSS THE BORDER FOR VILLA
1 xnn vadpiq nc mwm 1
l,tUU IttiUW Ul IMJIUIILU
CAPTURED BK GERMANS IN j f
HEMS DRIVE SAYS BERLIN! 1
French Official Reports Claim a Ger
man Repulse in Same Section
Paris Admits Germans Hold Part
of Vaux Village Near Verdun.
BERLIN. March 11. Ily an unexpected attack against French lines In
tie vicinity of Khclms. tho Germans have penetrated French positions to
a depth of nearly two-thlrda of a mile on a 1.4U0 vard front, the War Office
Asuiounced this afternoon. The Rain was made southwest of the Vlllcc-au-Borx.
In this engagement 7C7 French prisoners, one rovoher cHnnon, flvo
machine gnus and thirteen nilnc-throwcr wore captured, It was olllcially
toted.
West of the Mouse, the War Ollicc reported. French troops hac been
Cleared from tho Corbcaux und Cumlerca Moods, mid French position
feround Goofu Hill aro now in peril. French counter-attacks broke down,
the War Office stated.
.The Herman claims In tin drive on
the Ithel'ii" ft "tit. 100 miles northeast
of Paris, where there hns been ivj In
fantry t'E.vine of Importance for
months, are nui borne out by the
French omv.ui rcpiirt. I'.uls asserts
Ciat n German attack In Hols des
Buttes, In tho name section, was re.
pulsed. Tho Ciormans aro declared to
have bcui driven from the nnrth
Vestern and western sections of the
woods. 1
The official statement follows:
"Saxon regiments stormed with
Try slight lose strongly fortl
tiert positions in the wood Hectors
outhwest and nouth of Vllln-auv-Bols,
elcvtm miles northwest of
Illietm, over a width of about
1.H00 yards and for n dopth of
bout two-thirds of a mllo. Twelve
uninjured officers nnd 7:5 unin
jured men fell into our hand. The
booty consisted of ono revolver
cannon, five machine guns and
thirteen mine throwers.
"On I ho western bank of the
Meuso (Verdun region) tho hunt
positions still hld by tho Vronih
In the lluis deH Corheaux and the
Hols do Cumleros werti cleared of
nemles. Knemy counter attacks
delivered with stronfr forces
against the southern boundary of
tfieso woods and against the Ger
man positions further to the. west
brok down undor tho Arc of our
defense,
"On the eastern bank of tho
Weuse vory lively artillery actlv-
reigned, especially In the.
neighborhood northeast of Ura to
(Continued onBocond Pagu.l
The Real Test
01 i newspaper's value is in aJver
tlsliiK medium li itr. ability t.) pro
duce results for advertisers. There
are thousands of persons who read
advertisements religiously and earn
estly. As K'ld '"' sta:i.Unl of
value, so advertis :ig may he said
to be a medium nt excluiiKe. The
employer who needs help nets the
kind he wants by admtlslnsj the
apartment house owner finds ten
ants, and the owner of real estite
sells property thrnush advertising.
Advertisements In ;i real newspaper
of great circulation like Tl.: Wu:ld
are responded to by crowds of
anxious buers. cnnvlnclni; the
most sceptical that real rewspapfr
advertising Miiiihle. It cimt.Mi
platlnc an advertising camp.ii? 1, re
member The Mornlmj World will
' carry your announcement Into
110,990 homes in Niw Vork City,
F
KHT COMMISSION
STOPS WILLARO'S
PUBLIC TRAINING
Champion Disappoints lllg
Crowd by Refusing to
Box Al Reich.'
leis Wlllnrd, olinmplon of the
wrld, thin afternoon nhnilutoly re
fused to box Al Iteieh nt tho I'ionenr
A. ('.. and homio t.SOO peopb, wlio
had crowded the Kjrunnsluni. t 25
cents u head, wen hadlv dlHap
pointed. Vnr Home tijin M"-.paperx have
been prlntm that Iteich hal been
emrajred ,t narrliiij partner .f Wil
laiM ,-mhI irould bedln hin duties to
day. Despite this Willard paia he
knew nothinpr about It; hadn't been
advised of It by hiN ttmnarrer. Tom
Jones, and rnfused to tnkn a chance
np.vlnst anybody besides his regular
sparring partner.
The ohumplon'n refusal to o on
with Iteieh frrently cxelted flialnnnn
Wenek of the IluxinR rommhxion,
who wa present. I In called a halt In
WIllard'K bout with Walter Monohiin,
and orilerlnt; t ho champion out of tlm
rlnK, "called" him hard befori trw
crowd,
"Vou either bn Iteich or thero'll ho
no mnro publlo exhibitions in this hall
for nn ndn.lt.slon price." raid Wrueh.
"The publU' huM I, ii' umi thnuiKli the
newspapers that l!"ieh win tn Ijoiii
as you;- hpr.rrini,- i'Hi't ihl afi-r-n
u, nun If tlm h..x,lim fans Kip w n
milk liuvu l I'll tin-nip of the
f..i't "
Willard replied m fie efJWt th.n
he didn't care wli. tlp r or not Winrk
mopped his triilnlni? at tho I'lonrer
A. i'. b Hluiply wouldn't box iteich
to-day
Iti'lcli was nil le.idy i" it mi .it i ho
time. Tiiiii JniieK, Willard's iii.iiiu.
kit w.n not piiwni ,ird ,l,i. -U Curly,
IlKHilCl'lt) III.III.IkII. -.iid .: h.ul Until-
mi: In do w.th tin' ti ii, Hue pi, in ut
the Imr lluhti r
STEAMSHIPS DUE TO-DAY.
M. di Giorgio, Seville
Manuel Cilvo, Cadix,
10 A. M,
,11 A. M,
VILLA'S MURDER CORPSGEN. PERSHING LEADS PURSUIT
Kla " t -
GEN JOHN J PERSHING V"-UA5 MU-KDtR u.. INT itK
"LIAR" SHOUTS WILLIAMS ICARRANZA TROOPS SAVE 500
OF B. R. T. AT
Grosvenor Backus, an Attorney, As -
sails Thompson Committee Coun- j
sel and Calls
A the members of the Thompson Loglslntivo JnvrwtlKatlni; Comtnitteo
were boIiik out to luncheon this afternoon, f'ol. Timothy S. Williams. 1'resl
ediu of tho Iirooklyn Knpld Transit Company walked over to Counsel Frank
Moss of the committee with a newspaper In his hand. Col. Williams point
ed to a headline which read: "Cltv nays Williams $100,000 bonus, too."
"That statement Is a damned lie!" shouted Col. Williams to Mr. Mon.
A few e.xchatiRes followed .vhleh could not be heard.
As nn Kvetilnc WoiM reporter"
drew near Mr. Moss was exc l.ilminif :
"Oh. you're nut In thi- Smith now. "Vou
needn't think I'm kmw " hit you. I
wan't hit you In the nuM Vou'vo
been siek lately, ti.-nen't vou? 1 don't
think you'ie feellnr; ell mentally.
Your JudKinent Isn't ;oil. Vou railed
mn a damned ll.n. I iy you arc a
comedian."
"Vou're a (Ininne.l :i;n " shouted
Col. WlllluniK." There m nue'i a thniK
as pelf.respert, and you may do as
you please."
"You haven't shown any "lf -r-spect,"
Mill Mr. .Mosf. "I was will
Ine to sit down nnd talk thine over
with you. tint you have mndo It im
possible. If ever I wrontr anyone I
do all I can fo make amends.
It
impossible to talk with
man like J
you."
"WeJI, l warn you"' shouted Col.
Williams.
MOSS SAID HE HAD FACED DIG-
GEST CROOKS IN NEW YORK.
"I take my warnings every day
.,. i
exclaimed Mr. 51o., his voice beffin
nlnc to erack a little und"r the strain
and his face tjettlni; very red. "I
don't mind warnlns". I'o been up
against the blKcest bunch of crooks
in Xi iv Vork and it li. isn't worried
me. Mind you, I'm not sajmir you'ie t
iTooll. You're not like those other
filluw. You don't know how to t.oU
10 pl opll "
Clil. WllllaillH Nllld MOIIl"'-lillP .llHIIIt
u miii for ilatider, mid Mi. Ms'
walkeil .iway. A rrowd followed em I,
man. In tho throng nwir tho door i
tall, heavily built ymini; man wh
loiilieil like n football guard Mopped
up t" Mr. Moss Ho lowered over tho
plump lawyer ko Jens Wlllnrd over
1 iliininml Jim llrudy.
"Vou'to a damned loafer.'" the
ui.nil Kboiiie.l down al Mr. ,o.n
"oii eui'i get :iii thifi r lis in ' lug
III I ml." aid Mt. Musj, growing
still mort i'ri!i-t "iii iir siiuw'n.
tCoutmucd ou tiUta rag,
FRANK MOSS
Him Loafer.
M'GRATH CAN ACT
FPR T. R. IN ILLINOIS
Word l-rom Secretnry Will D-jiJ
Whether Colonel Is Dropped
l-'roni PrcsiJenlial Mallot.
SPHINGFIKld), 111., Mtu-e'i II.-.
Unlesn a tnle(,-raph d or n-rltten
power of attorney aiithorizlni;
McOrath, private c-rretary for Then. 1
doro Iloosevelt. to Hpr;,4 for the. Wholesale arrests of Mexicans sit.
Colonel. Is m Secretary 'if State i H t.,(1 ut ,,, IR HplM r0 mado here
Btevonson's hands by rnldnlitht to- ,..t,iv n-i fnit..ii suiti-H olllccra com-
night, candidate for delegate nnd
alternate
deleites whnsi' nnm s ,
were filed with a Itoos' velt. prefei.
onco, wlli Bo on the ballot.
This was tho doclalon nf sv. r.i t
Btevcnson to-day. followtnir i-ei-oim
of a teloRram from ltuuNevi'lt' at
torneyH, lnqulrlnfc win. t her niirh ,i
power of attiirney would ! sulllrinin
to eauso the Illinois State In p-irtmet.'
head to eradl' ato tho Ituofewit . n
'dld.Us fmrn the l,,illtH. St,veni...ti
answered tnut it would
GERMANS RENEW ORIVE
IN RIGA DISTRICT
Heavy Att.-uks 1:.im d Kh.Imv 1'.
puK'd ith erimiv l IPix.,
S.iys I'etnmr.ut Kep M.
Pi:TIJ(ifll:Ali Mm li n II. -i .
Herman ittinUn (.tst of Koslov urn
ropulse I with serious enmnv lossei
nceordlllg to despatel received here
to-day. The 'lertnniiH ar" beeomliiB
mum active on the entire front, par
ticularly around Itlgn, whi neiril
attaeks have tieen luohen Up by Itiis.
slan nrtlller.s
SAILINGT0-DAY.
Rotterdam. Rotterdam 13 M.
Munamar, Nuevitat 12 M.
Tenadorea, Havana . .12 M.
Kriitianlafjord, Dtroen x ,2 P, M.
FIRST DASH
n niinn nniin niinniirn ni i iiii m
Six Mexican Prisoners, Released at
Columbus and Told to Leave Town,
Found Riddled
COI.UMIirs, N. M Mnrch 11 Uespatches received hero this afternoon
Indlcnto that Cnrranza troops have reached Guzman, Mexico, fifty mllort
southwest of here, and will form a strong Kuard for a train bcarlnc 600
Mormon Americans who am fleeing from their ranches at Cnsas Orandcs
and that vicinity. Tho men of the fugitive band aro armed, and with the
aid of the Currimza soldiers they should bo nblo to defend themselves
against an ntlaclc hy tho Villa hiindltsi who aro snld to have planned to
hold up tho train.
Uite reports placd tho main ln.ii'l
of Vlllltta brlK-unils roiutlik-Rihly tut
th -westward of the raliro.'id rniinlnie
from Ciuxas Urundes to Juari-. Tho
Murmiiim illd nut irot ready t aban-
ifun thi'Ir U'li farms until nws
n-ached thm yesterday of th attxu'k
upon Columbus. They ar brlntflnB
tholr money and valuabln perwonai
LcloiiRhm-H to tho United St.itt ,ind
fur that renaon, accordlm; to report
hero, Villa Is jmrtiuul.irly uiimouh to
, ,,..,
i.intiMl nretinruttons fur tn pursuit
f Francisco Villa and his iiundlts.
Tim American soldiers, . lllcors and
men, displayed an e.m'rriiuss for tho
lecmpt of th order that w iuld aUirt
them Into Moxlco.
Six Mexican prnoner releaied by
the Thirteenth United State Cavalry
.vere found riddled with bullet a mile!
jast of Columbus thu afternoon.
I They had been released and told to
1 leave the city. Some of the Mexican
. cre aliened to have aided the Vil
I lutai durinfi Thursday nnjht' raid,
1 An investigation is beinu conducted
j iy both military and civil authorities.
Despite tho ucrvousm i-s uiimiig eiv
I ,,in- 'inn t pnivalled In tins dlxtrlit
Uimg tin; night and In r.nl K.nly
.r eiiHn riretllated i.pmts ! t h"
,.,."'.iraii' hostile Mev.eais wer
...wil to In- unfounded. K irly in the
.i.lit a Mexican rtifusil I ohey the
imiii.md of on Aiiicrlnui n'ntry to
I u.ilt nnd w as klllul.
Among the Mexicans arrted for
1 hpvlng wa I'ablo tlonxales. When
luken I svoro overalls over a mill
' mry un.foi in.
I
- I
I. P. MORGAN SAILS FOR HOME
, IliinUrr, Who I'.niU ln In l.iiinliin,
I ollllllH fill l.lorr I'llllilitelnlila.
l.ONIiitN. Mi' nil II .1 r Mniiiiin,
h'.o ha In - n In London ' e ve -al
, fuj m ll r t -'lav ftorn l.lvi ir.vjt fin
i New ii-k on ih t.-uiuij.i. I'ldl idil-
phi.
urn mm by villa
,
With Bullets.
WILSON STOPS ON TRIP
AT NEWPORT NEWS
('resident Willi Mrs. Wilson Alvurd
Mayflower, l.xpected to Remain
in Vicinity Until To-Morrow.
NKWPOIIT Ni:w.S, Vn March 11.
The yacht Mayflower, with the
Prealdent and Mts. Wilson aboard,
arrived here Hlmrlly after J I'. M. to
day. The vesm-i Ic ft Waslilimlmi last
nlKht and cruised down the Potomac
IUver and ClieHapeake II. ly, un a
week. end n-M. irlp for tbr 1'reHldent.
The vessel anchored Ikmo, and Is
expected to leiuam In these waters
to-day and to-morrow, leavini; to
morrow af'ernonn fr WashlnKtun.
TREBIZOND TO FALL
WITHOUT RESISTANCE
r'KTIltKJIlAH, Mnn-hll The Turk
ish port of Trelilroml will lie surren
dered to the Itussl.ins with bttle or no
resistance, according to TillU de
spatetlKH to-day HU gu is in tin- har
bor have in i n dismantled mid nil th"
clu's aluatili st h iiiiioimI.
Ittlislan v.iiiL'Uunls an. nov within
lehH tint it a iIiiv'h iii.ii o or Die em
The 1 1 1 IHxin n 1 1 , him xlim the n
tientniK TuiIik in xhilling tin mn'N
Ijilig di t-i On- Ilia-I, S.-n -.ion
(WRMAX tUSIlOPl.AXE
no mii a n its nn it is n
WARSHIPS AT SAMOS.
TIITA'S. .ratvi,
dot. o., vr.ineH.i,.
II (Via I. on
i lerinan aero
; i .in tt
I'oining from the i o.ist of Asia
Minor flew over lh iMlnud of S.imoi,
wlltl'l. il'.S furtl-two lllle H to C.e
I M-mlliWest of Sllll'i nil. .ill. I iliretv
1 liomlin at Itrttish Hlilpii lu u linilini
I 'hen- wlilo-ii hitting .in.' U'i"ii.
I Tim tteinlil'Jim leiiirneo to .iia ..
nor .
WITH AIDQUIDO AQ QPflllTC
Gen. Funston to Remain at Border to
Direct Campaign Villa Stirs All
Mexico to Fight Invasion "Kill
Gringoes," His Cry.
GEN. CARRANZA AGREES TO
CO-OPERATE WITH THE U. S.
WASHINGTON, March i t . Assurance of the fullest co-operation
of the Mexican dc facto government with the military authorities of the
United States have been received from Gen. Carranza. First Chief of the
Mexican Republic, through his Secretary of Foreign Affairs. Precedents
for the action of this government in going into Mexican territory were
established by Mexico when, in tlic '8os, troops of that country crossed
our border in pursuit, at different times, of the Indian bandits, Geronhno
and Victoria.
The aeroplane detachments of the army now stationed near the bor
der will act as scouts for the invading American forces. It is anticipated
that with the aid of, airships Villa can be located without delay and
quickly surrounded.
Secretary Maker to-day referred to the American expedition as a
"defensive" one. This was regarded as a significant indication of the
Administration's policy to make it clear that it Is proceeding with scrupu
lous regard for the sovereignty of Mexico and entirely in aid of the
constituted authorities.
G EX. I'EIISHIM TO LEAD INVADERS.
Major-Ceil. Frederick Funston will not personally lead the troops
who are going after Villa. He will remain at headquarters on the
border, piob.ibly at lil I'aso, at present, in general charge of the
operations which will extend over a front of more than 100 miles.
Urig.-C.en. John F. Pershing will be in command of the advance guard
of the United States forces, lien. Pershing is in command of the
liighth Cavalry Brigade.
Tint ilei'lhlmi of t'm War Department to keop tlen. Funston at Fort
dam llouuton, wiu Influenced, It was wtd, hy tho necessity of having soruo
ono in charge of tho Mititherri division thoroughly conversant with the
border situation
When the aero squadron will begin Its flight was kept secret, but Capt.
Foiiloltt, tint ten ofllcors undor him and tho ninety men of tho squadrou, art
busy preparing to ijult Fort Han Houston.
.No Amerleun troops had crossed the border this morning so far as the
War Department wan advised. Many despatches went received from Gen.
Funston. however. Informing tho department as to the disposition hu was
making of his forces at strategic points.
Secretary Ilaker said that whatever reinforcements Clou. Funston might
require, to maintain an adeiiuatu patrol along the harder in addition to the
expeditionary forco would be promptly furnished. He added that tho War
Department had been deluged with telegrams ftoin individual and organ
izations offering services us volunteers.
A total of llfty-sesen dead Mexicans hao been found in and about
Columbus. Gen. I'linston reported. A icport that eighteen nio;c bodies are
lying In the brush between tin- town and the bordei l belna Investigated.
(I' ll, Fun.-tion said tho uffi i-'ixncss of the fire or tli. American troopa
during the engagi ilieut was splendid
.seerelar) linker bus .iiu'(i,lii in (.'en. I'mMim (hat the ami) nero
siiinilton un ii ill Mm Wiloiilo he ciuplojnl lull In riiaiuillnn nth (l0
pursuit of the Mlln IminllK He mis uigrr, Mr, Ilaker ald, not mil) tlint
the tumps nIiiiiiIiI hate the benefit nl air scouts, but ulsu Unit the inlators
llienisehes should gel the benefit of tho experience In arlual war serlco.
Villa was to da rcporto! moving southeast with tut more than 300
men Uict night's reoort gave his force as a.OnO, out that Is believed to
Include sympathl.i rs In lili territory. Ily bis movent" nt southeast It was
thought a threatened attack on the American Mor-iu n eubny at Caaa
(linnib's hnd passed for the present
SESATE COMMITTEE EX DOUSES ACTIOS.
Th .si iint- rui'clii Ke!n!,,:is I'oiiimitteo to-day unanimously endorsed
the net ion ot the I'n -Id' nt i.i sending Xmerb au traapa into Movlco to
cni'iurc Vill,. and his raiders
it was decided Informally after full dlicutHlon of the circumstance..
'"i'f
