mmmfmmwfmw nnngr-
'. ""' -Ty- "Ttrnc y.Tr77S"i"fr
WEATHER FORECAST:
Fair; Cold Tonight
(Pull Report on Pago Two.)
HOME
EDITION
1 v
NTTMBEB 8886.
WASHINGTON, SATURDAY EVENING, MABOH li, 1910.
PBICE ONE CENT'
t-cA .
.v
,
AMERICANS ON
SUBMARINED
NEUTRAL SHIP
Domand for Reparation and
Punishment Expected to Bo
Made by .Lansing.
CONSIDERED GRAVE BREACH
Norwegian Merchantman Was
Given No Wornlng, Says Re
port of Consul.
News that a submarine had sunk
a Norwegian vessel, with Ameri
cans on board, without warning,
brought an unofficial declaration
from tho State Department that
tho nation whose flag the subma
rine flew will be held to account.
Taking the meager dispatch at
its face value, officials frankly de
clare that the power the subma
rine represented will be called to
account for the act.
The vessel was the Silius,
from New York. She was torpedoed
in Havre 'Roads, according to a
dispatch from the consul at Havre.
Seven Americans were on board.
AWAIT AFFIDAVITS.
Secretary of State Lansing will not act
officially until he has complete details
He muit havo affidavits or passengers
and' crew showing beyond "reasonable
-doubt" that It was a torpedo and not
a mlno or Internal explosion that sent
the Stilus to tho bottom and endangered
tho lives of American citizens. Buch
affidavits cannot reach here, officials
said, much before a week or ten days.
That tho 'Stilus was unarmed Is gen
erally takon for granted, 'since she was
a neutral ship of commerce. This. fact
In Itself officials say, makes the case'far
more serious than any that has arisen
blnm thn inr heenn.
The right of noncombatants either
neutral or Doiiigerent to travel on iim
high seas uboara neutral vessels has
never been questioned.
Attitude of President.
Even If the submarine commander af
forded the passengers and crew those
measures of safety which Germany and
Austria have assured the United States
would be given In caso of warranted
attack on belligerent passengers ships,
the United States, It can be authorita
tively stated, will not be satisfied.
If tho attltudo of the l'rcsldcnt and
Secretary Lansing, as frequently ex
nressed In formal notes to those nations.
has not changed and ofllclals grimly de
clared It has not changed "ono lota"
tho United states must Insist on dis
avowal, reparation, and condign punish
ment for the offending submarine com
mander.
If such demands are mode, It Is
firmly believed, they will be accom
panied by an Inslstont request that
tney ne granted witnout hesitation
and without the parley and exchange
of formal notes that marked earlier
Incidents.
Although there Is no definite In
formation as to the nationality of
(he submarine which attacked tho
Stilus no serious doubt exists on this
point In official quarters. In vlow of
reports of general activity on tho part
of German submersible? along the
French coast In the vicinity of Havre.
Brewery Strikers
Go Back to Work
Settlement Reached After Troubles
Extending, Over Whole
Year.
After having been on strike for Just
a few days less than a year, the brewery
workers In the District returned to
work at 4 o'clcok this morning as a re
sult of tho settlement of their difficul
ties with the local breweries.
Tho first of tho workers to go back to
their Jobs were tho engineers and fire
men, who resumed their old tasks this
morning. The bottlers and drivers and
the other brewery employes will return
km soon as they can bo found and re
instated. The end of tho strlko was announced
last night after a series of conferences
between the union representntlvs and
the breweries. The two principal Issues
Involved were tho increase of wages for
tho drivers and the matter of Inserting
, a clause in contracts permitting the em
ployers to discharge workers when the
business of the brewery fell below nor
mal. FORD EMISSARY IS
JOLTED BY NEUTRALS
Scandinavian Premiers Refuse to
Receive Representative.,
COPENHAGEN, MARCH ll.-Tho con
ferences of premiers and foielgn minis
ters of Sweden, Norway, and Denmark
today refined to receive a representa
tive of the Ford peace tribunal.
Dr. Charles F. Akcd, of Son Fran-'
cisco, was tho Ford emissary. He cimo
tj Copenhagen fiom .Stockholm, nnd
uppllcil for a healing.
Dr. Aked was Informed today that
tho conference did not enro to t.iKo
nct'va steps townrd peace overtures at
this time, tho purpose of the meeting
being sole!y to obtain co-operation In
safeguarding neutral Interests against
belligerent aggression.
FLIERS TRAILING VILLA-FIGHTING ZONE
I
'
".
r" gi i l i 'II i m ii ii i l ii in Mil ii ii i p,i i ii i i i i ! in i i i i i ''".'"' ' '
WT ''$rr:&te& .tor'r.;rr , Uim
J riiMX& iPr CARHOAUWd? PATO Yfirt JA 'sssssBissssssssssssssssssssssssssssB
r . .sb w.m ar sm a -1i-v r ai i -r - mm .r w m . v ssn sbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbd rr.n' n- -m ? i,' i ' ii- -.t '" tsa .'. r . isbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbi
m. aw xk.v&' 7iv , . j --'s ".a 7 imimiBBMt y&t svzmmm .iz.:mm
ffimru m 'na'tfzmr- i-m&s&wm aMwm &
l " V. II . in " ni a mmmmm.Jt.r . .J- a J roaBUSBBBBBBBBBBBB J T I BBBISBBBBlTBBBBkr . " . TSSXi - VBBBtTBBaBBI VTtf' t JBirv aBBBBBBX.SBBBBr X 'jd
JltMf .XV.W M V 7WV4I r T- (V jT jf BBBBBBB1 . iSS"! W,t ' WSJBB t ? (.'iSBBBBBBC' 111
uiT'o..x.J .. ? v :i3i-iiiMwwi -i
S?iU tWSAP'M .' M,J'MimIIIIIKIIBW)X;sLtlllHXX:
M3:t'AJ.v K - I J f AvVPHJU' nViriVIHHHLf
fJV'(VlV"V -W.X-l II X KAUVfuUI BBBBBBrra-TrB-!BBWSBKCl "? ' J ?U v BBBBbKDbBBBBBBBBBBBBK
VT ,, rW''' I 1 I ' I ' JL BBBBlV'F -fil'MtT i' YWjsBBBBBBBBBBBfBBBBI
'C !r.".VW,,.,gr T I J' " ' TBBBBBBSl.--'i flnnJ . tA ,)'4. WisBBBBBBBBKBBBBBBBBBBBBl1
m&.'i m iBBBBBBBSBiriP ft i4,LvWlBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBi
IB8sbWvb9HIbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb ;' f-r-vv. VVbbbbbbbbB
If JbbbbbssbbbbI Itasn wStaAjslBrj6HBBBBE& ' ' J'"!
i?' JBMBbBBbB BBBBBBB VBHIBHiClaBBBBBBBBBBBm M'.- J
UV.LtcBBBBBBBH BBBBBbV RsWSBBBBBBHSBBBLBBBBBBa .iLm. V I
U JXSbbbbbbM LbbbbbW WWiIbmIVsmIwiSbbbbbbbbB K,'JI
wFTBBBBbB BBBBsBaraifBBBfiEvVBBBBBBBBBa VM
vtifH ilHHQE4HiBBBBBm ' v- ' ivar
BBBOT-lllkBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBP
5BBBBBMi-t ''Tli.BBBBBBBBBBl'
BBBBBBBBSBBBmiimii nMg.i i - .j JBBBBBBBBBBBBBS
U. S. TROOPS GROSS
BORDER IN DASH
TO SAVE MORMONS
Soldiers In Mad Race With Bandit Leader.
Who Swears He Will Exterminate 500
Americans Fleeing to Border From
Mormon Colony; Fear Felt
REPLY RECEIVED FROM CARRANZA
V? r.VT-l
emi
l RiS
A)gft)
XtWfSfe-t
i'M' ?r,VZJ
'"'" - '.
State Department Considers Offer Made By
Head of De Facto Government to
Order His Soldiers to Co-operate
With American Expedition.
Above Army aeroplane, of type us cd in scouting on border in flight
over army camp at San Antonio.
Below Map showing territory now being swept by Villa and his bantl
which is estimated at 3,000 men.
Army Aviators Get
First Taste of War
In Border Campaign
For tho first time since the establish'
ment of the alatlon section of the
Signal Corps, army aviators aro having
actual experience In service today
along the Mexican border.
Secretary Uaker carl this morning
ordered General Seutt to Instruct Oen
cral Funston "to use as far as possible"
the squadron of aircraft stationed at
Fort pam Houston, Pan Antonio, Texas,
In his 'expedition nnlnst Villa.
At thot fort ate clcht service ma
chines. There are three other practice
machines, but theso arc not available
for service.
"Best Flier In Army."
These eight service machines make
up what Is known ns tho first squadron.
Thoy are commanded by Capt. Benja
min D. Foulols, whn has len longer
on uvlatlon duty than any other officer
In the arfy. In roporla of the signal
corps he has teefi termed "the best
filer In the army."
The Instructions sent to General
Funston regarding the aerial squad
ron followed a hurry-up call from
the office of the chief of staff to Gen.
Georgo P. Scrivon, chief signal of
ficer, for complete data about the
machines available along the Mexi
can border, and about the stations of
all other aircraft In tho army. ,
Col. Samuel Reber, In charge of
the aviation section. Immediately pre
pared a memorandum and sent It to
Qenural Scott. This memorandum
showed only tho eight craft of the
first squadron to be available at this
time for work In Mexico.
There aro nine machines at Ban
Diego, but theso are "school ma
chines" and will not be used for serv
ice. Four other service machines are
In Manila.
Every Source Goscd.
Though every source of Information
about the operations df tho aeroplanes
has been closed tight nt tho War De
partment, and oven General acrlven,
after sending tho memorandum to tho
office of tho chief of staff, would not
diseuBg the status of tho aviation
squadron. It Is generally believed that
tho aviators today aro playing an Im
portant part In tho scouting operations
to "catch Villa."
All through tho office of the HIgnal
Corps Interest In tho actual operations
has been overshadowed by tho opera
tions of the aerial squadron.
. Officials of tho tilgnal Sorps aro keep
ing In closo touch with the office of the
chief of stnff to get tho first news of
the operations of tho air craft. They
aro especially anxious because thoy con
sider tne Mexican situation anonls tno
avibtlon section a raro opportunity to
vindicate itself following tho nttnckH
mndo upon It In tho recent hearings on
national defense.
Scathing attacks on the efficiency or
the avlat.on section, on the physical
equipment, on the training of the men
tn that branch of the service, nnd on
Colonel Heber were made before tho
Senate committee
Came Up At IIcurinffB.
Theso ''Inrgcs came tin In the defense
hearings on the heels of a court-mitrtlal
following upon accidents to young army
'lvlotors. Senator Robinson of Arkansau
'liter Introduced a resolution calling for
n Invcat'g'itlou of the aviation section.
-Mid Colonel Reber, was brought before
no committee inter 'n the hearings and
severely grilled.
Wherefore there Is much sitnorcsieri
excitement thioughout the ofTlces of
the signal Corps. A special order from
tho office of the chief of staff, follow
ing tho sending of tho memorandum,
tnrtructcd tho Signal Corps officers
to give out no Information concerning
tho use being mado of the aviation
section.
Tho fact that Secretary Uakcr Is
M'tttng hold of the details of the de
partment was brought out this morn
ing In this connection, when, In his
presence. General Scott was questioned
about the number of servicer machines
stationed at San Antonio.
General Scott sold there were six,
and Secretary Uaker sold he thought
there were eight. General Scott looked
up his memorandum, and said, "tight
It Is!"
CAPTAIN BENJAMIN D. FOULOI S (bareheaded), in charge
squadron on border, in conference vijh CAPT. CHARLES
CHANDLER, preparatory to making ascent.
of air
DE F.
Second Army Officer
To Fly in Aeroplane
Capt. Benjamin D. Foulols was the
second United States army officer to
fly In a heavier than air flying machine.
He has been a student of aeronautics
since 1909. when ho made his first flight
ut Fort Myer. Va.. with Orvlllc Wright.
Foulols, then a lieutenant, because of
his weight, was selected b Mf. Wright
as his passenger on tho flight from Fort
Myer to Alexandria, seven miles, which
wns necesinry to comply with the Gov
ernment requirements In tho contract to
purchuse tho Wright biplane. The lleu
tenunt also made a number of other
cross-country flights, and flew for two
hours or moro with Mr. Wright on sev
eral occasions at Fort Myer.
He waa nt Fort Myer on September
18, 1900. when I.lcut. Thomas Selfrldge
was killed In tho first fatal aoroplano
accident In this country
The first I'nltcd States army officer
to fly In a heavier than air machine
was lieutenant Lahm, who had chargo
of the Government testt. Lieutenants
Lahm and Foulols also havo practical
eXDCrlencO In the. nnemttnn of dlrlcrlhln
balloons, which were also tested at Fort
Myer seven years ago.
2,500,000 French Lost
In War, Berlin Says
BERLIN. Mnrch 11. French losses to
March 1. 1916. totaled 2,MX),uw, according
to a semi-official statement given out
here today.
MORE RAIDS FEARED
ALONG
GRANDE PURSUING
KL PASO, March 1L While American
troops are expected to cross Into Mexico
In half a dozen places before night to
avenge tho Columbus and Santa Ysatal
massacres, the border country fears
newed slaughter of Americans today.
The greatest slaughter of American
colonists In Mexico's history Is imported
to be the object of Francisco Villa's
race toward a train of Mormons due
this aftemoon at Guzman, Mexico, a
small town about fifty miles southwest
of here.
Warned of tho proposed campaign of
extermination against him by American
troops, Villa Is said to have determined
to strlko one more blow against the
"grlngoes" before retiring to tho moun
tain fastnesses of western Chihuahua.
There ho hopes to escape the vengeance
of tho United States soldiers.
Tho special train la bearing Ufi
American Mormon refugees of the
Gasas Grandes and adjacent colonies
to tho border. Repeatedly urged by
Americana to leave and threatened by
Villa personally, the Mormons stead
fastly held to their fertile rqanches
which by Industry they had converted
from barren brush.
The first word of the Coumbits raid.
however, resulted In an order from the
(Continued on Third Page.)
CARRANZA
T
ROOPS
OUTLAWS
Secretary of War Baker tody gava
out tho following telegrams from Gen
eral Funston sent last night from Fort
Sam Houston, Texas;
'Following Just received from Colopel
Slocuro: The Jefe Fiscal at the border
gate reprots that twelve hundred Car-
ransa troops In pursuit of Villi will be
at Falomaa this afternoon. A part of
this ' force was observed from tho
border gate by my out post at 2 p. m.
They are using a black and wlilto flag
so we can distinguish them from Villa.'
"FUNSTON."
"Slocum reports a patrol today
found eloven more dead Mexicans anil
a number of dead horses killed by fire
of our troops from a hill near camp
while retreating from town. This
makes flft -seven bodies found. Re
ports that eighteen more are between
there and boundry will b investi
gated. T have never heard of any
thing to equal effectiveness of fire of
our troops pn this occasion.
"Pablo Lopez, ono of Villa's .off leers.
killed at Columbus, was In com ma ml at
massacro of Americans at Santa Ysa-
bcl. Chihuahua, a fow weeks since.
"FUNSTON."
"Private James P. Taylor, Troop F,
Thirteenth Cavalry, wounded at Colum
bus, N. M died at Fort Bliss, Tex.,
March 10.
"FUNSTON."
Washington's Crowning Disgrace
Perhaps you have seen its exterior.
Maybe you have been within its walls.
Someone may have told you of its horrors.
The chances are you know nothing about it.
But you may know all about it, may realize its disgrace if you read the results
of a special investigation by a Times woman
In Tomorrow's Sunday Times
American troops have crossed the Mexican border.
The first troops to go over are engaged in a mad dash
into the heart of northern Mexico to capture Villa, "dead
or alive."
Heading in a direct line southward, the troops are
making a desperate effort to rescue 500 American men,
women, and children fleeing from Casas Grandes.
These American citizens are members of a Mormon
colony, whom Villa has vowed to exterminate as a spec
tacular feature of his campaign of terrorism.
With the cry of "death to the gringoes," Villa and
his blood-thirsty horde are galloping southward in order to
reach the colonists ahead of the American troops. -
F;ears are expressetf'that he may have arrived. There
is a, sickening, apprehension in official circles that the
American troops may be tb6 late.
Drunk with the blood that he shed in his bold dash
into Columbus, N. M., Mexico's "man of terror" has but
one object in view. Thoroughly familiar with all the trails,
he will lose no time in reaching his prey. Army officers
at the War Department know full well what the conse
quences will be unless the bandits are intercepted.
Gen. Venustiano Carranza, first chief of the de facto
government of Mexico, has consented, conditionally, to
the invasion of Mexican territory by Funston's forces.
In a formal note delivered to American Consul Gen
eral Silliman, and forwarded by the latter to the State De
partment, Acuna, Carranza's minister for foreign affairs,
proposed a reciprocal arrangement under which the armed
forces of the respective governments should be allowed
entry into the other's territory when pursuing the bandits.
PROPOSAL BEING CONSIDERED.
The proposal is now under consideration at the State
Department. According to the present disposition of the
department it will be rejected.
The note sets forth the claim that the Villista bandits
who rode into Columbus, N. M., were at that time in re
treat before a force of 2,000 Carranzistas sent in pursuit
of him.
It is recalled in the note that such a reciprocal arrange
ment ih force at the time of the forays of the Indian ban
dit Geronimo in 1880 resulted in the speedy annihilation
of the outlaws.
In the meantime 6,000 American troops, led by Brig
adier General Pershing, a veteran of the Philippine cam
paign, and directed by Maj. Gen. Frederick H. Funston,
"the man who got Aguinaldo," are believed to have in
vaded Mexico.
Villa is reported by the Mexican embassy to be at As
cencion, southeast of Palomas, with only 200 troops. At
Palomas is a force of Carranzistas preparing to attack him.
Villa's forces are estimated at 3,000, and are endeavoring
to cut off the Mormons and exterminate them.
TRUST EVERYTHING TO FUNSTON.
Trusting everything to General Funston, "the man
who captured Aguinaldo," the War Department has given
him wide discretion. Everything from the army point of
view depends on keeping Villa in the dark as to the number
of American troops on his trail, and the manner of their
coming. For that reason the strictest censoiship prevails.
Except for the briefly worded bulleMns being given out at
the department, no definite news of the movements of the
American forces is obtainable.
It is understood that these forces entered Mexican ter
ritory in three columns, from El Paso, Columbus, and Ha
chita, respectively. Their purpose is to converge on Villa
from three directions in an effort to surround him before
he reaches his goal.
Other troops, unikr the direction of General iinston,
