Bath
WEATHER
MARKE IS
VOAK CITV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
March 8, 25.92.
Arizcna Cieanrj,
Colter north
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 246.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, MARCH 11, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
m m i
"KILL OR CAPTURE VILLA"
5
OF REPUBLIC BEAMS TODAY
PREPARE FOB
If II ill
n
Hill
m tuc
W MIL
Carranza General, with Five
Hundred Men at Palomas in
Attempt to Intercept Villa's
Retreat to Hills.
MORMON REFUGEES'
ESCAPE IS HELD UP
El Paso and Fort Bliss Very
Active in Anticipation of In
vasion of Mexico After the
Bandit, Francisco Villa.
EL PASO. March 10. General Bar
tani, the Carranza commander in
western Chihuahua, reached Palomas
today with 500 men a.id reported
Villa was making for the li Ills with
liis entire force and extra horses stol
en from the ranch house? in the vici
nity of Columbus.
At Fort Bliis. the cavalry troops J'.re
being perpared for immediate field
service. The pack mules and cavalry
horses are being rushed reshod, the
packs are being loaded, firewood
brought up in shape for the troops to
iuoe into Mexico at the first order
from the War D'-partment of General
Funston. General Funston is expected
to reach here tonight or tomorrow
and the invasion of Mexico in pursuit
of Villa is expected to begin before to
morrow night before Villa reaches the
mountainous district of the Gallina or
Guerrero districts. The same prepar
ations is being made in Camp Cotton
for the infantry troops and the artil
lery is .settins ready to cover any as
sault on the border towns or to covel
sr.y concentrated attack upon the
1'rited States troops in the interior.
No troop movements have yet heen
started as all of the officers are wait
ing for orders from Fort Sam Houston
or Washington. There are 12,000
troop3 stationed along the border ar.d
i! is possible that all of these will be
brought into action if it is found
necessary. The troops will then be
sent in. according to army men, a?
fast as the state National Guards ar
rive from the border states, including
the artillery company at Rosewell. N
M. As fast as these National Guard
troops are brought up. the line of
regular troops will be sent into Mexi
co to carry the line of communication
and supplies. It is not known where
the first point of invasion will be hut
probably be along Villa's route of re
treat wiih another expeditionary force
pushing down the Mexican Northwest
ern Railroad through Juarez a.Nd
Casas Grandes in the mountain coun
try. Other forces will be sent to
Columbus to take the place of tht
troops sent from there, which will
probably be the 13th Cavalry :s a
reward for valor liown at the Col
umtus fight. From here the Stii Cav
alry, machine gun section and wireless
section will probably be sent under
commadn of Colonel Charles Taylor
with General Pershing directing this
line of invasion while Genera Funston
has direct supervision over the line
entering at Columbus and Palomas.
A report was received from Hachita
tonight that six I'nited States Army
pack mules had reached the line near
there without riders and were covered
with blood. This is believed to have
been a part of the 13th Cavalry equip
ment although it is possible that a
small detachment of soldiers from one
of the other troops was ambushed.
The Golden State Limited from
Douglas today brought 70 refugees
from Columbus including Mrs. Maud
Hawk Wright, the woman who was
Villa's captive for the long ride from
the interior to the border. Mrs. W.
G. Ritchie, widow of the proprietor
of the Commercial Hotel, brought her
husband's body here for burial accom
panied by her dauehters. She told
of the return of her diamond and tur
quoise earings which had been snatch
ed from her hands by a Villa bandit.
The man. dying a prisoner in the
1?,h Cavalry camp, returned the
rings to her by a courier with a note
raying he was sorry he had killed hT
(Continued on Tage 5)
Mexicans Raid American Properly Near
Osborn and Kill Stock; Troops On Hand
. Investigation, late last evening of conditions ;ii and near Osborn .tune
lion, proved that the band of, Mexicans which raided earlier in the even
ing on the American side of the border, was a detachment of Carranza
Mihliers on its way from Naco to Ag.ia Pricta. They camped last night
at Morita, within a few miles of the railroad point.
The guard at Osborn, under the command of Major 12. W. Kvans, was
increased and now there are about 125 men stationed there. Another
d.Machment is camped at Corta, near the country club.
YOUNG BOY KILLED
When Alejandro Garcia, a thirteen year old Mexican boy. failed to
halt when commanded to do so by guards stationed on the right hand
side of the Warren Gap, near the location where the water flume cross
es the Southwestern tracks, last night, the men opened fire with serious
results for the boy. He was hit in the abdomen and died shortly after
being taken to the Copper Queen Hospital.
With his older brother young Garcia was riding to Warren on horse
back. According to the story which reached Bisbee last evening the
two boys were coining along and were ordered to halt. This they failed
to do. Three times the order was given, according to those who were in
the party of guards. On the last one, further according to this source,
the boys started to gallop their horses anil one or more of the men op
ened fire, wounding Acljandro.'
The boy and his brother and their parents have lived in the district
for many years and are very well thought of In the community. The
fsiher. who left for Cananea yesterday morning, hns been wired of the
accident.
DISTRICT VERY QUIET
Though there was considerable excitement last evening there is abso
lutely no grounds for supposition that any part of the community is in
danger. If there is any danger, it Is pointed out, it lies entirely within
the boundaries of the District and due to the hot headedness of some
who will use no judgement.
The Mexican population, undoubtedly, is extremely desirous of pursu
ing the even tenor of its way. It will not attempt to make any trouble
and will not look for any. As was seen last evening in Lowell the ag
gressors in several encounters weret Americans who were looking for
the opportunity to display their fistic prowess at the expense of some
ore or ones, unable to protect themselves.
There is no reason to believe that any of the Mexican residents of the
District desire trouble. All, or mostly all. are employed here and want
nothing more than to be allowed to work and be let alone.
EARLY REPORT OF AFFAIR
With sixty-five troopers from the Tenth Cavalry on patrol duty at Os
born and another detachment of the same regiment stationed south of
Warren, near the country club and extensive guards at work near Don
Luis, at Black Gap and Gold Gulch, the Warren District stands little
chance of being raided by Mexicans from the state of Sonora.
There was great excitement last evening when the report reached
i:;sbep to the effect that' one Amerl?an had been killed and much stork
nd been sls-ushtered and run off by a Mexican ' raiding partv from the
Sonora side. Though the killing of stock was verified the death of no
American 1s authentically reported.
Soon after the first reports were received a company of the Tenth
cavalry was hurried to the Junction and the troopers are now on patrol
there. A patrol was also established by Major E. W. Evans at or near
Corta and no further trouble is expected. A special Southwestern train
was sent to Osborne last evening at 8:15 and brought all but two of the
American families from the Osborn section to the District.
SMALL BOMB EXPLODED.
Juan Benito Seco of Cananea and Antonio Velasquez of Bisbee. were
slightly injured last evening when a small bomb was exploded in the
Parisian wax show, of the Campbell Carnival Company, below Lowell.
Apparently the bomb was placed under thp tent from the outside.
It did very little damage and may have been nothing but a shot gun
shell buried underneath the ground and then exploded in some manner
Soi-e of the furniture of the show was damaged to a slight extent.
When the explosion was heard thai people on the Carnival grounds and
in Iowell became greatly excited. This cooled down when it was found
that the damage was reduced to a minimum. Both of the injured men
were able to go home.
LATE BULLETINS
CARRANZA SAYS HE'S SORRY
DOUGLAS. March 10. "Am very sorry the conditions are such
that the United States deems it necessary to nke the actior of which
you advised me," waif the answer of General Carranze in a telegram
from General Calles asking for an expression from the head of the ile
facto government to his opinion of the action of President Wilson in
sending a punitive expedition to Mexico.
QUIET IN DOUGLAS.
DOrC.LAS, March 10. A provost guard and extra police, patrolled
the streets tonight to prevent possible disorder. Special military guards
were stationed at the two smelters and a troop of cavalry at Pirtle
ville. a suburb. Orders were issued against street speaking or loitering.
TROOPS ARRIVE AT PALOMAS.'
COLUMBl'S, March 10. Twelve hundred Carranza troops, flying a
black and white flag so the American soldiers would not mistake them
for bandits, reached Palomas, six miles south of the border from i oiuni-
It is believed their intention is to assist in the pursuit oi vina.
bus.
CALLES' TROOPS TO CO-OPERATE
DOI'GLAS, March 10. Three hundred de facto government infan
trymen were sent eastward along the border from Agua Prieta, by Gen
eral Calels. the military governor of Sonora. He instructed them to
hold San Luis Pass, near the New Mexico-Sonora-Chihuahua border
Tliey will co-operate with the Seventh Cavalry patrolling the border
at that point. The Carranza soldiers wear red bands to distinguish
them from the Villa soldiers.
WOUNDED DOING WELL.
EL PASO, March 10. At the post of Fort Bliss, surgeons said the
four wounded soldiers brought from Columbus were doing nicely.
Private Harmezel, machine gun trooper, has a good chance to recover.
LITTLE HOPE FOR MORMONS
EL PASO, March 10. Villa is headed directly for Casas Grandes.
Chihuahua, to attack the five hundred Mormons settled in that section,
according to a report received at Juarez by General Cavlra.
There is hope felt that General Bertani will be able to bring
help to the Mormons as a cavalry he commands is stationed at Pulomas
one hundred miles distant, and over a broken ar.d roadless country.
Ten trains, containing 2000 men, left Chihuahua City this afternoon to
act as railroad patrols and train guards, Gavira said.
ILIIffl IS
ANXIOUS TO
111
f LA
Rebel Bandit and His Forces
Reported at Boca Grande,
About 25 Miles Southeast
of Columbus.
AMBASSADOR MORGENTHAU HOME, SAYS
U. S. FLAG WAS UMBRELLA FOR ALIENS
MANY RUMORS EXCITE !
PEOPLE OF THE TOWN j
Report That Detachment of I
the Seventh Cavalry . Had J
Been Ambushed Proven t
False. Other Reports False, j
COLl'MBl'S. March 10. Francisco !
Villa, with his bandit army whose raid
on Columbus was driven off by thoj
Thirteenth Cavalry, with severe losses
Thursday morning, was at Boca Gran
de, 25 miles southeast at last reports
of scouts. The American military au
thorities here are impatient for orders
to cross the border and assail the ban
dits before they have time to retreat
further into the interior of Chihuahua
With plenty of cavalrymen availa-
cie, i oionei siocun. is convinced an '
order to cross the line will now mean
a quick disposition of the Villa forces.'
The town was thrown into a state of j
excitement today with the report that !
Villa had recrossed the border and
surrounded the town.
The funeral of Mrs. Milton James,
killed by Villa's raiders Thursday .
morning, was held. Every man and '
nVun hnt'c? tr lr n ii'r DrKni 1-orj In atlun. !
dance were armed and alert. Tonight
a renewed report that Villa was ap
proaching threw the town into a panic.
Armed civilians supplemented the pa
trols. Shots were fired at everything
that appeared to move in the desert
brush. Shouts of "put out the lights"
rang through the streets, but half an
hour later there appeared no sign of
Villa. Army officers and civilians sent
their wives away.
A squad of cavalry sent to investi
gate the report that Villa soldiers had
crossed the border and surrounded a
patrol of the Seventh Cavalry return
ed with the report that no Mexicans
had been seen on. this side of the bor
der. At eight o'clock a report was re
ceived that firing was heard east of
lown as a result of the failure of a
Mexican to halt on the order of a pa
trol. The Mexican is dead. The Mex
icans rounded up by military patrols
were examined and several liberated
but a few held for spying for Villa.
One wore a Mexican military uniform
under his overalls. He insited he was
a peaceful rancher, but was held. Sev
eral were liberated and deported with
instructions not to return.
The body of W. T. Ritchie was sent
to El Paso. The bodies of the soldiers
are still here.
ML ...
v-,-.y. v,,w' . TFm I
wt.'' -1 f Ay) V v ... . .-' ' i V lr,
y U 1
10
LEAD U. 5.
Mr. and Mrs. Morgenthau, photographed since his return from Europe.
Henry L. Morgenthau, U. S. ambassador to Turkey, returned home on
3 sixty-day leave a few days ago. He said he had made an umbrella of the
American flag in Constantinople, gathering under it the people of many
ntitior.t. He went immediately to Washington, where he has had several
?onfei ences with President Wilson and Secretary of State Lansing.
NAVAL SYSTEM
SUBJECT OF
GERMANS GAIN
AT FEARFUL
SACfFICE
Berlin and Paris Reports Con
flicting; More Russian Suc
cesses; Turks' Say British
Are Retreating.
LONDON. March 10. Throwing
large masses of infantry against the
French In Ccrbeaux northwest of Ver-
British or other craft of the same age. dun, the Germans, after several at
Captain Sims, commander of ihe new i tacks in which they are declared by
President Wilson Determined
in His Stand that Villa and
His Bandits Be Punished
For Their Outrages.
CAPTOR OF AGUINALDO
WILL BE IN COMMAND
Capt. Sims Says New York
Would Be in Grave Danger
in Event of Hostile Sea At
tack; Designers Ridiculed.
WASHINGTON, March 10 Ameri
ca's pre-dreadnaught Meet would go
over like nine-pins if pitted against
super-dreadnaught Nevada, told the
House Naval Committee because
"colossal mistakes" in construction
never had been rectified. Other coun
tries, he said, had spent millions in
re-designing older ship to
changed conditions.
Paris to have suffered heavily, have
retaken a part of the wood from
which the French drove them. The
entire region around Verdun contin
ues the scene of intense activities but
meet , (j1( Germans are breaking dow n un-i
iler the French attacks according t
Illustrating ins point, i aptain Mms.;Parls, nerm denies this and claim!'
who as Lieutenant went over the pains , (Iin-(.mlt parta aIonc: tilf
heads of his superiors to obtain Presi- wuoe jine
dent Boosevelt's support in a camp-1 Th(. Germans in the unocr StriDa
region along the Russian front ar
declared by Petrograd to have suf
fered heavy
FUNSTON HAS BIG TASK.
WASHINGTON. March 10. Indica
tions late tonight are that the carry
ing out of President Wilson's order
that the Americans enter Mexico and
capture or kill Villa be left to the
man on the ground. General Frederick
Funston. After a late conference the
President and Secretary of War Baker
announced that no invasion of Mevico
in force was contemplated and that
the troops would be withdrawn as
soon as the purpose was a complish-
Vll.
An appreciation of. the task of
Funston can be gathered from data at
hand in the War Ollice. Villa's forces.
al a consevauve estimate, comprise ot j
from 3.00 to .1.OH0 men.
of operations may include territory
approximately 400 miles long and as
many wide. In any of these ItiO.Ot'O
square miles Villa might operate with
certain knowledge of every trail and
waterhole.
He always hns shown preference for
aign to improve methods in target
practice, said the old "bulldog of the!
navy. Oregon, was proDaoiy me
worst design ever-put afloat. Cn
balanced turrets heeled the ship down
on broadside tire until the skin be
low the armour belt was no thicker
than a man's hand exposed t6 gunfire.
He picked flaws in other ships of
lat,er date and said the defect were
the result of faulty organization of
the department which had prevailed
for years.
Captain Sims said submarines;
could not defend a coats and that th!
defense of New York should be made j
1.0O0 miles at sea. He had positive
knowledge that the British fleet spent
part of the time belling nets in shel
tered harbors, the rest at sea sur
rounded by a screen of the fleet's
submarine nets when not in rapid
motion. The only German submarine
which got through the screens was
rammed sunk by a battleship.
"I don't hesitate to say that with
100 submarines of the shore service
losses in a counter at
tack and their position captured by
Russians. Despite bad weather the
Italians are keeping up an offensive
along the Austro-Italian line. Pero
grad 'reports continuation of progress
of the Russians against the Turk
along the Black Sea coust toward
Trebizond. A British official come
munication sas the force attempting
to relieve the siege at Kut-el-Amara
had reached a point several miles
j east of the beleaguered city and h;;ve
been forced by lack of water to fall
l back to the Tigris River. The Turks
claim the British reterated after ejec
tion from a Turkish trench which
they captured and left two thousand
dead.
PRESIDENT ON MAYFLOWER.
WASHINGTON,
dent Wilson left
March 10 Presl
Washington on the
type concentrated around New York yacht Mayflower for a week-end trip
a hostile fleet could sail near enough I down the Potomac to Chesepeake Bay.
The field , tit-ll the city provided it controled He plans to return Monday unless
the surface."
REJECT LANSINGS PROPOSAL
the Mexican situation necessitates his
return sooner.
The Mayflower's wireless equip
ment will keep the President In con
stant touch with-the pursuit of Villa
by American soldiers. The president
WASHINGTON. March 10. The
Kntenle Allies have aereed to Inform
the I'nited States that they cannot wanted to abandon the trip, but was
the mountains parallel to the "ouiid-l,.,,.,.,. the proposal of Secreary Um-jrged not to as he was informed that
ary states of t Inliualuia and sonora i Kin-M rp, 4.n, Hr, iihir memorandum e could keep in touch . with the sit-
when forced to retreat. There is rt a-1 t luit a modus vivendl be entered forj uation by wireless. Secretary" Tu
son to believe he is now making hisj disarmament of belligerent owned j multjr will remain at the White House
way west and south to seek shelter I merchant ships. Conferences between and personally handle the message,
in the hills. Once in the niout tait.s' the allies on this BUbject have ended Ihirins the trip the President will cou
ainong those he has befiiende l and and formal replies to the American ide-r going before Coujtress next week
those who fear him as well n tiioe suggestion ate expected in the near fu- ' and if lie does so, will prepare a mes
(Continued on Tane Two. ture. age on the Mexican situation.
Action of Wilson forestalls
Any Possible Criticism that
Would Have Been Made,
Otherwise, in Congress.
WASHINGTON. March 10 -American
troops have been ordered across
the border by President Wilson to
take Francisco Villa and his bandits,
dead or alive. Under the direction, if
not the actual leadership of Major
General Funston, who ended the Phil
ippine insurrection by taking Aguinal
do. single handed, the American col
umns are expected to be moving into
Mexico before tomorrow night.
They go to meet about 3.imm guerilla
troops in a mountainous region from
which Carranza troops have Ced.
i Whether this long deferred action.
which begins as a punitive measure to
cleur Northern Mexico of menacing
bands over which Carranza hns no con
:ro!, shall grow into general armed
intervention or occupation of Mexico,
depends, in a large measure, upon
Carranza and the Mexican people. The.
order beuins with the President's dec
laration that the movement Is entirely
in the aid of the Carranza government
and without thought of agsression.
President Wilson's intention to de-
!part from his policy of watchful vai'-
ling. which was ended by the Columbus
massacre ytsierday. was announced
after it had been unanimously approv
ed by the cabinet and Administration
leaders of Congress. After a brief cab
inet meeting at which the President
deserihed himself as being as deter
mined to eliminate Villa as he was to
eliminate Huerta. Secretary ltaker hur
ri d to the War Department and sent
orders to th,, border troops.
Soon afterwards ihe army general
staff assembled and conferred on
plans, long drawn and perfected since
the Mixecan situation loomed up as a
d'stiuber of th,, peace of the I'nited
States. General Funston telegraphed
urging the utmost secrecy in army
plans. The border Is honeycombed by
Mexican spies. It is agreed that th
expedition will be pushed to success
by keeping Villa ignorant of its move
ments. It is possible that no corres
pondents will be permitted to accom
pany the columns. At any rate a
strict censorship will be maintained.
Former Secretary Garrison, who is
familiar with the army's Mexican
plans, owing to his association in the
crisis of two years aao, came to Wash
ington and offered his services to lid
his successor. They were nt once ac
cepted and Garrison went into confer
ence with Secretary Baker at Ihe War
IVpartment.
General Carranza. in a telegram to
the State Department, expressed re
gret at ihe massacre, but made no c;m
ment on the proposals of sending Am
ericans to hunt the bandit. Eliseo r
redondo. his ambassador, was oiTicially
notified of the American government's
action. He only replied tha hte would
communicate with his chief. He hn-
publicly expressed his personal opin
ion the movement will not he opposed.
State IVpartment officials decline
to say what their attitude will be if
Cnrran-'.a look a hostile position. It
was said the I'nited States would set
tle the question when it arose. If an
offer of Carranza troops is made they
said they could hardly be refused.
General Carranza ordered .I.OoO
troops from various garrisons to move
upon Villa's forces. The effect of the
advance will probably be to keep the
br.ndi? near the border, but 1.ansing
announced that no matter how far in
to Mexico it would be necessary to
penetrate or what numbers neressary
to increase tha force the I'nited
(Continued on Page Two.)
