MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWMlMMMMwMM9mmmwBm r ,.- .-1 mA-.-m-i 'nii'V-mirt1! hi i-ilr trSrMWrrWMMWMwfSSBlSatSssSMMMM
li
1 I Today's Metal Prices I t rfi J A QLiXV 4 P. M. CITY EDITION
1 NEW voRoTATIONs U IT r fj LI L J E IL Xil I iJU ClX U twenty--eight pages
$l7 25$2?:50Nearby; Une 3nd ,at0r' U P Temperature. H
HAS THE LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTY. H
a ?. . s : L
Forty-sixth YearNo. 61. Price: Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 11, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at' the Postofflce, Oedcn, Utah. fMM
H
Gen. Funston Assembling Three Columns I
I t r a l
I of U. S. Troops With Aeroplane Squadron I
! ' To Run Down Gen. Villa and His Men I
H
tv j , mmm
i CARRANZA ASKS PERMISSION TO
ill SEND TROOPS ACROSS BORDER
M . . . . . .
; ' Chief Replies to American Note Regarding Villa Raid of Co-
3 ) lumbus, Reviews Action Taken by Both U. S. and Mexi-
I S : co in Geronimo Incursions and Proposes That Troop
J I : of Both Governments Be Allowed to Freely
a 1 1 Cross International Line in Pursuit of Villa
I Hordes With View to Applying
J. Condign Punishment.
a
i i
i ) Washington, March 1 1 . The senate foreign relations
3 -; committee today unanimously endorsed the action of the presi-
i I dent in sending American troops into Mexico to capture Villa
$ I and his marauders.
5 f - ' Washington, March 11. General
1 5' Carranza, through Consul Sllllman, A
1 has asked the American government s
Tor permission to send Mexican troops
I I across the border and Into the United
5, States In pursuit of bandits. n
Consul Sllllman transmitted the fol
S lowing communication dated at Guad-
I alajara, dated March 10, which was
rf tl handed to him by Jesus Acuna, Car- g
t ranza's minister for foreign affairs, o
rf ? It Is a reply to the American govern- fj
i i ment representations (for permission it
I i to puraue the Villa bandits with V
m '! American forces. g
Tfl 1 Carranza Sends Reply. s:
I "In due reply to your corteous note, -a
ck 1; dated yesterday and transmitted to- E
or ' i day, through Mr. John W Belt (Sllli- S
a '. : man's secretary,) I have the honor to
(j? ' Inform you that having brought the t!
m , above note to the attention of the C
I' first chief of the constitutionalist p
L army and depository of the executive
.1 power of Mexico, he has directed me r
i to say to you to the end that you
a may, in turn, transmit it to the depart-
f ment of state of the American gov-
j ernment. that he learned with regret
a of the lamentable incident which oc-
J curred in the town of Columbus, N.M.,
a on account of the assault It suffered
1 yesterday from the bandits led by
i Francisco Villa. (
J "That although there has been a
f competent number of forces in the
state of Chihuahua to re-establish or
jmm 5 der and afford protection to nationals
)St and (foreigners, ever since Francisco
f Villa appeared In the mountains of the J
or- above state, at the request of the gov-
Itt ernor of the state and of the const!-
j A tuttonallst consul in' El Paso, Texas,
the first chief ordered the timely de
,51 1 parture of 2,500 men commanded by
jd I General Luis Gutierrez with instruc
4k tlons to actively pursue the bandits
fid -! who had just crossed the line into
mB American territory which they un
9f, doubtedly did, compelled by the te
K naclous pursuit of the above men
u's ; tioned forces.
M ';' 8lmllar to Geronjmo Raids.
'M tt "The above lamentable incident Is
iSJ -l similar to the incursions which were
M made in the states of Sonora and Chi
.yl $ huahua by Indians from the reserve
JS i tlons of the government of the "United
yg 5 States. Incursions into the state ol
JH 1 Sonora occurred more or less about
f f the vear 1880 when Geronimo, the In
m j dlan chief who died, not many years
9 r5 ago in Fort Mount, Alabama, led a
Si $ numerous horde and invaded a part
33 8 of the north of the state of Sonora
ag I committing many murders and dopre
m dations of life and property of Mexi
M ' can families until, after a long and
H tenacious chase by American and
Si '' Mexican forces, the band of malefac
Sl -." tors wa,s annihilated and Its chief-was
Ijl . captured.
H : "The Incursion Into Chihuahua, leu
I by the Indian chief Voctoria, com-
H manding about 800 Indians, took place
"t between the years 1884 and 188C. Then
H '" the bands of marauders, committing
Vm ' a4s many crimes, went Into the coun
M try as far as tho villages of Tejolochic
Mi or Tres Castlllos, verj' near the capl
Jfli! tal of Chihuahua and during the -first
2Slt formal encounter between thorn and
Jm " Mexican forces, after having lost their
3 1' chieff they were disiersed-
9 :' Carranza Proposes Agreement.
&M t "On these two occasions, through
4m l an agreement between the govern
all ,1 raents of the United States, and Mexl
S I co, it was decided that the armed for
jSn cos of one and the other country might
'4m i freely cross from the terrltor- of one
m ' t0 tno other in PurBUlt of nnd for the
9 '" purpose of punishing, the above nam-
tm ? ed bands of marauders. Recalling
2! l lhese precedents and the good results
31 $ for botn countries on account of the
9 ' above agreement, the government pre-
9 ' sided over by the first chief, anxious
S : to exterminate within the least pos-
WE i Bible time the hordes led by Francisco
MM i Villa, who has been recently placed
3H beyond tho law and to capture him, to
Ml apply condign punishment, applies to
9lC y" confidential agent, and ad-
fl dresses the government of the United
1 States, requesting the necessaiy per-
SjHp mission for Mexican forces to cross
'.Wm tto American territory, if the Incur-
3mW. slbn which took place in Columbus
ftmU should unfortunately be ropeated in
H any other part of the boundary line.
1 Tho Mexican government would great -
flHr lr appreciate a prompt and favorable
WMm T&ply from the government of the
SK United States.
mmfc
"Please accept, Mr. Confidential
Agent, the assurances of my high con
sideration. "Jesus Acuna,
"Secretary, In charge of the depart
ment of foreign affairs."
Mexico Censors Messages.
New York, March 11. The Mexican
government has imposed a censorship
on all telegraphic and cable messages
from the United States into Mexico,
it was announced here today by the
Western "Union and Mexican Tele
graph companies. The only land mes
sages which the Mexican government
will receive must be routed through
El Paso and be written in English or
Spanish.
This Information was conveyed by
the government authorities in Mexico
City to tho Mexican Telegraph com
pany's offices here, It was stated.
TROOPS PREPARE
TO CROSS LINE
General Carranza's Proposal
, Considered as Favorable by
Administration Officials.
AERO SQUADRON TO GO
Killing of Villa Officers Con
firmed Senator Smoot
Asking Aid for Mormon
Colonists.
Washington, March 11. While
American troops are preparing to
Tiove across the Mexican border to
exterminate the Villa bandits, General
Carranza, In an official communica
tion delivered through Consul Sllll--nan,
has asked the United States for
oermlsslon to send his troops into
American territory, If necessary, In
nursuit of outlaws.
Administration officials consider
General Carranza's proposal as favor
able. It seems to indicate that he
will not protest against American
roops on Mexican soil as has been
'eared. Practically such a reciprocal
'rrangement probably would never re
lult in a single Carranza soldier cros
sing the line as the possibility of ban
llts taking refuge In American terrl
.ory Is considered remote.
It Is realized that such an arrage
ment, however, would go far to satis
fying General Carranza and permit
him to comply with popular sentiment
In Mexico There was no Indication
early today how the proposal would be
received.
Troops Being Assembled,
Up to noon today no American
troops actually had crossed, so far as
was known here, and It was believed
none would start moving before night.
All arrangements are being left In
the hands of Major-General Funston.
Villa today was reported moving
southeast with not more than 300
men. Last night's report gavo his
force as 3,000 but that Is believed to
Include sympathizers In his territory.
By his movemont southeast, it was
thought a threatened attack on the
American Mormon colony at CaBas
Grandes had passed for the present.
Telegrams Flood War Department.
The war department today w.ib del
uged with telegrams from individuals
and organizations offering service as
volunteers. There was at present,
Secretary Barker said, no need for
summoning volunteers to tho colors.
A total oMlfty-sevon dead Mexicans
have been found in and about Colum
bus. General Funston reported. A
report that 18 more bodies are lying
in the brush between the town and tho
border is being Investigated,
i Aero Squadron to Accompany Army.
Secretary Baker has suggested to
i General Funston that the army aero
i squadron now at San Antonio be era
. ployed fully in connection with the
- pursuit of the Villa bandits.
; Senator Smoot of Utah received a
3 telegram today from Mormon leaders
urging him to impress upon the war
department the danger to the colony
at Casas Grandes. The war depart
ment assured Senator Smoot every
thing possible would be done to pro
tect the Americans.
More Americans Missing.
The state department announced re
ceipt of telegraphic advices to the
effect that the customs officials on
tho border report that two additional
Americans are missing from a ranch
in New Mexico which was raided on
the night of March 9 near Nlmbres
and about eight miles west of Co
lumbus. General Carranza's note will bo an
swered after it has been laid before
President WilBon. The reply of the
United States probably will say to
General Carranza that his suggestion
will he considered if at any time it
should become neceBBary for his for
ces to pursue bandits Into American
territory through the lack of a suffi
cient number of American troops to
do the work.
Ambassadors Ask Information.
Washington, March 11. The am-1
bassadors from Chile and Brazil, who
took part in the Pan-American concert
which resulted in the recognition of
General Carranza, called on Secretary
Lansing today to Inquire about the
action of the United States. They
were Informed fully and made no com
ment. There was no Indication of a
disposition to do more than gather Information.
oo
MORMONS FACE
GREAT DANGER
Farming Colony in Casas
Grandes District, Chihua
hua, Menaced by Villa
Band of 300.
TRAINLOAD REFUGEES
Carranza Guards Expected to
Accompany Train North
Hopes Felt for Escape
of Colonists.
El Paso, Texas, March 11. The
train which was to carry out the Mor
mons from their colony near Casas
GrandeB has not yet started and will
not start until a sufficient escort ar
rives from the garrison at Chihuahua
City, according to General Gavlera,
commandant at Juarez, today.
El Paso, Texa6, March 11. The po
sition of the 500 members of the Mor
mon farming colony In the Casas
Grandes district, Chihuahua, 158
miles by train from El Paso, critical
as It was in the first place, has been
further menaced by the presence of
Villa with a band of 300 followers at
La Ascenclon, close to the railroad
over which they must travel to the
safety of the American frontier.
Carranza guardB from Chihuahua
City were expected to accompany a
train load of refugees, due to leave
Casss Grandes for the north last
night or early today.
The natural covers of the land near
La Ascenclon, however, afford protec
tion should Villa attack the train.
Colonists Hope to Escape.
In El Paso hope for the escape of
the MormonB Is based largely on the
unverified rumor that Villa is short of
ammunition. Although only 300 men
are reported to be with him at La Ab
cencion, Villa still has a force of 2000
In that region.
The arrest of a number of well
known Villa agents by tho El Paso
polce, including a general who was
trying to buy arms in a gun store, a
colonel who was found In tho gen
eral's home and an alleged spy wth
penciled maps of Mexican railways
In his pocket, indicate that the sltua
ton In El Paso has been inore serious
than has appeared on tho surface.
Mexican Paper Suapendod.
La Constitution, a local Mexican pa
per was suspendod by the police last
night and all editions seized because
of an Inflammatory article against
the United States. Furthermore, the
military authorities at Fort BIIsb re
ceived word that a large quantity of
rifle munition was taken from a place
of concealment In the Mexican quar
ter and put in a wagon train presum
ably bound for Villa's camp. As the
! wagons could not have crossed tho In
1 ternatlonal bridge, the pursuit of the
'. soldiers in automobiles took place on
the road that follows the boundary
l on tho American side.
Traffic Over Bridge Decreases.
Traffic over the international bridge
between the Mexicans on both sides
, of the boundary, usually large, has
decreased materially. Horse racing
. still goes on in Juarez, but the at-
tendance from the El Paso side Is
loss than half the normal. At night
- heavy guards are placed on patrol
along the boundary and at the smel
ter, tho light plant and other points
i open to attack.
a The troopB at Fort Bliss are await-
rling ordorB to ruovo.ut. any. moment.
GEi FUNSTON IN
FULL COMMA!
Instructions Conveying Full
Authority in Conducting Ex
pedition Into Mexico
Sent by War Dept.
TO USE THREE COLUMNS
Brigadier General Pershing to
Command Principal Force
More Troops to Join
Border Army.
Jtv'fv 2vt vV fw"' r ,3A
GENERAL FUNSTON
Washington, March 11. Instruc
tions conveying full authority to Gen-J
eral Funston to dispatch a defensive
expedition Into Mexico in pursuit of
Villa and his bandits are today in
General Funston's hands. Secretary
Baker announced that full discretion
as to the number of men to be used
and the route to be followed has been
left with General Funston.
Secretary Baker specially referred
to the expedition as "defensive" in
line with the administration's policy
of legarding Its action as one to repel
Invasion.
No definite announcement was
made at tho war department, but it
was generally understood that Brigadier-General
John J. Pershing will
command tho principal column of
American soldiers in pursuit of Villa,
Major-General Funston retaining com
mand of the general operations which,
it Is expected will Involve the use ot
three or more columns.
Moro Troops to Come.
San Antonio, Texas, March 11. i
Major-General Frederick Funston an
nounced today that, while ho will
have direction of military affairs
along tho Mexican border, the expedi
tion into Mexico will be In charge of a
brigadier general whose name, he
suid, would be given out at Washing
ton. Organization of tho expedition will
not be completed for two or three
days, General Funston said, as troops
from other army divisions than the
southern will be added to the border
forces. The general maintained al
ienee today as to tho size of the ex
pedition and the points of entry Into
Mexico. The full aero squadron will
accompany the expedition.
Charleston W Va,, March 11. Ad
jutant General John Bond after re
ceiving reports from officers of the
West Virginia national guard, said to
day that he could have 1,800 men with
the necessary field equipment ready
to move In 48 hours, should the gov
ernment need them for service on the
border. A movement has been launch
ed here to purchase an aeroplane for
tho guard.
Douglas. Ariz., March 11. The
Tenth United States cavalry, Colonel
W. .C. Brown commanding, arrived
here early today from Fort Huachu
aca, Arizona, after a two days' march.
VILLA SPIES ARE
BEING ARRESTED
U.. Officers and Men Eager
to Start Into Mexico to
) Avenge Acts of Bandits.
Columbus, N. M., March ll.r-Tho
arrest of several Mexicans suspected
of holng Villa splos divided interest
among civilians here today with the
preparations of the military for the
pursuit of Francisco Villa and his ban
dits. The military, officers and men
In their preparatory activities display
ed an eagerness for the receipt of the
order that would start them into
Mexico.
Despite the nervousness among civ
ilians quiet prevailed In ths border
dlstrclt during the night and in prac
tically every case circulated reports
of the appearance of hostile Mexicans
were shown to be unfounded. Early
In the night a Mexican refused to
obey the command of an American
sentry to halt. The Mexican was kill
ed. Villa at Boca Grande.
Scouts brought In reports that Villa
was at Boca Grande, 25 miles south
west of here. Other advices stated
that a largo number of Carranza
troops had rea'ched Palomas, suppos
edly to assist in the pursuit of Villa.
Among the Mexicans arrosted for
spying was Pablo Gonzales. When
taken he wore overalls over a military
uniform.
Civil authorities continued plans to
bring charges of murder agianst cap
tured Mexicans in connection with the
raid on Columbus Thursday.
Seven Murder Charges.
Columbus, N. M., March 11. Seven
wounded Villa soldiers captured by
Col. H. J. Slocum's troopers of the,
Thirteenth United States cavalry in
Thursday's battle here, will be
charged with murder for the killing
of the seven American soldiers slain
In the fight, according to an announce
ment today by E. B. Stone, special
asent of ihe department of just ce.
Tho prisoners Include a boy twelve
years old and two officers.
Stone said he would confer today
with Summers Parkhart, United
States district attorney in New Mexi
co and that the charges probaby
ould name Francisco Villa, ' the
bandit chief, who led the raid on Co
lumbus. Stone added It was probable that
similar charges of murder would be-
filed against the prisoners in the
state courts of New Mexico In con
,,norticn wth the killing of nine civi
lians by the bandit raider.
Sanchez Held as Spy.
Pablo Sanchez, arrested while slg-'
nailing Mexicans across the border
yesterday and held as a spy, will be
I charged with aiding an enemy while
on the soil of the United States. The(
murder charges against the Villa sol-j
diers, Stone declared, would lie be
cause the raid was carried out, not
by recognized belligerents but by
bandits whose leader was a man who
had been prescribed by the defacto
government of a country with which
the United States was not at war.
Men Facing Charges.
The men against whom the murder
charges are to be filed are:
Pablo Garcia, a captain who has
fought in Villa's army for three years;
Lieutenant Ysabel Chavez, with two
years' service under the Insurgent
chief; Leon Ruiz, Juan Sanchez, Ellas
Moras and Antonio Morandas, priv
ates. The boy Is Jesus Ruycs, who
with his father Ausleto Rayes, joined
Villa three months ago In Chihauhau.
Tho death of Jesse D. Taylor, a
wounded American soldier yesterday
at Fort Bliss, will be the basis for
the eighth charge of murder against
the prisoners, who are all so badly
wounded that a United States commis
sioner probably will be summoned
here from Doming or Albuquerque to
arraign them as they lie In a hospital
ten In the cavalry camp here.
Villa's Papers Strong Evide'nce.
Stone declared tho cases against
the prisoners had been rendered par
ticularly strong by the fact that evi
dence had been found including papers
taken from Villa's official correspon
dence which was picked up on the
battlefield, to show that while Villa
was approaching to make the raid on
Columbus, he addressed his troops,
telling them to spare no American, to
burn and loot tho town and to make
"human torches" of every man, wo
man and child.
Sanchez was picked up with fifteen
other Mexicans yesterday by cavalry
patrols. Fourteen wore released,
some being ordered across the border
as suspicious characters.
Sanchez claimed to be a rancher but
when he was searched a pair of field
glasses were found under his blue
jumper. The removal of his overalls
revealed a well made gray military'
uniform.
rr
DEATH SUMMONS
FORMER SENATOR
Washington, March 11. Former
United States Senator Henry Gassa
way Davis of West Virginia, vice pres
idential candidate on the Parker Dem
ocratic ticket In 1904, died here at
1:51 a, m. today after a brief Illness.
He was 93 years old.
Mr. Davis was stricken with grippe
about a fortnight ago while ona visit
to his daughter, Mrs. Stephen B. Elk
Ins, and on account of his advanced
age was unable to withstand the at
tack. Funeral arrangements , were being
completed today. Interment will be
at Elklns, W. Va home of the former
senator. . -. .
VIOLENT FIGHTING FOR POSSESSION I
OF VAUX FORTRESS CONTINUES I
Germans Make Some Progress Along Slopes Leading to Vaux H
and Hold Houses on Eastern Side of Village Germans H
Deliver Strong Attack West of the Meuse Intense i H
Bombardment Continues in Woevre District H
Artillery Fire Does Serious Damage M
in Lorraine. I
H
Copenhagen, via London, March 11, 2:19 a. m. -A local 'M
newspaper says the Norwegian steamer Bergen met on Thurs- H
day in the southern part of the North sea a German flotilla of ill
fifty dreadnoughts, cruisers and large destryoers of the latest M
type. The largest ship in the fleet was the new dreadnought .H
Hindenburg. One squadron was steaming in an easterly direc H
tion followed by two airships. JH
A London dispatch on March 8 said that a German fleet M
of at least fifty big warships had been sighted Monday after- M
noon in the North sea off North Holland by a steam trawler M
according to Reuters' Amsterdam correspondent. A later dis- i
patch on the same date saicl that the German fleet returned to j M
its base Wednesday morning. I H
Paris, March 11. 2:30 p. m. There
Is still violent fighting for the pos
session of the fort at Vaux, according
to announcement of the French war
office this afternoon.
The Germans have made progress
along the slopes leading to this posi
tion but they have not yet reached
the barbed wire entaglements in
front of the fort.
The Germans hold some houses in
the eastern part of the village of Vaux,
while the French are still In posses
sion of the western part of the tow 1.
The text of the war office report
follows:
"North of the Aisne, the enemy yes
teray. after having bombarded for sev
eral hours our positions between Tro
yon and Berry-au-Bac. moved out from
Ville-au-BoIs and attacked the sailent
formed by our lines at Bois des But
tes. "After a spirited fight, we drove the
enemy from the northwestern extrem
ity as well as from the western sec
tion of tho wood. This was territory
the Germans had succeeded In occu
pying. Germans Deliver Strong Attack.
"West of the Meuse, the Germans
last night delivered a strong attack
southeast of Bethincourt against our
trenches along the highway from
Bethincourt to Chattancourt. An Im
mediate counter attack gave us full
possession of the Important communi
cating trench which the enemy had
Menetrated.
"East of the Mouse, the enemy has
redoubled his efforts between the vil
lage of Vaux and the Vaux forts. The
bombardment continued all night with
great violence and there were further
infantry assaults against the village,
in ruins from shell fire. The Germans
took possession of some houses east
of the church In the village of Vaux.
We are still in possession of the west
ern part of the village and tho efforts
of the enemy in this direction all
resulted In failure.
Enemy Makes Some Progress.
"As a result of several attacks
against the fort Itself, the Germans
made some progress along the sur
rounding slopes, but their efforts to
reach the barbed wire entanglements
In front of -the fort were checked by
our fire.
"In the Woevre district there has
been a continued and intense bom
bardment, in the regions of Eux and
Moulainvllle.
-"In Lorraine our artillery fire has
caused serious damage to the works
of the Germans near Embermonll.
"In the Vosges, French batteries
have been very active in the valley
of the Thur and east of Thann."
Berlin, March 11. via London, 3:15
p. m Capture of French positions
1-100 yards wide and about frtvo-thlrds
of a mile deep south of Vllle-aux-Bois,
near Rhelms, was announced today
by the war office.
The text of the, statement follows:
"Saxon regiments stormed with
slight losses strongly fortified posi
tions in the wood southwest and south
of Vllle-aux-Bois, eleven miles north
west of Rhelms, over a width of about
1400 yards, and for a depth of about
two-thirds of a mile. Twelve injured
officers and 725 uninjured men fell
Into our hands. The booty consist
ed of one revolving cannon, five ma
chine guns and thirteen mine throw
ers. French Lose Positions.
"On the western bank of the Meuso
tho last positions still helde by the
French in the Bois des Corboaux and
the Bois du Comlercs were cleared of
onorales. Enemy counter attacks de
livered with strong force against tho
southern boundary of these woods
and against the German positions fur
ther west broke down under our fire.
"On the eastern bank of the Meuse
lively artillery activity reigned, es
pecially north of Bras, west of Vaux,
and at several points on the Woevre Mm
plain. With the exception of a local ' IH
French attempt to deliver a surprise WM
attack against the village of Blanzee, .
whloh was repulsed with sanguinary 'H
losses, there was no decisive infantry ,' !JH
engagement. m
"Through a dlreat hit by one of our H
anti-aircraft guns, a French aero-
piano fell down in flames between the p !
mutual lines southeast of Chateau lm
Salins. The occupants were dead and imM
were' burled by us together with, tho ( ;B
remains of the machine. mm
Review of War Situation. -H
The second great effort In tho Ver- , jl
dun drive apparently is nearlug Its JLM
close. The latest German attacks jM
have been directed at comparatively -TLM
small sections of the front east and H
west of the Meuse. Military opinion Am
in Franco is that the great battle is H
at an end. MM
The German admiralty announces H
that on Thursday German seaplanes .H
successfully bombarded a squadron of H
one Russian warship and five destroy- H
ers in the Black sea. sMM
The Portuguese cabinet has resign- r jB
ed to give place to a national defense MM
cabinet, empowered to take all meas- H
ures necessitated by Germany's de- H
claration of war. H
New Attack In Champagne. H
A new attack by the Germans in the H
Champagne near Rheims yesterday M
resulted In the capture of French posl- H
tlons over a front of 1.400 yards and MM
about two-thirds of a mile deep. H
East of Verdun the Germans cap- H
tured part of the village of Vaux. H
Seven Americans were on board tho UH
Norwegian bark Sllius torpedoed and mM
sunk yesterday. The Americans were m
saved.
London, March 11, 4:31 a. m A
Milan dispatch to the Dally Mall says m
that a cabinet crisis is believed to be H
Imminent' in Italy, owing to the Insist- .
cuce of the advocates of a coalition
government on representaton in the
cabinet. Leonida Blasolati, leader ot m
tho reformed socialists is the noml-
nee of this group for the premiership. mt
It is believed that a place will be of- mt
fered to him in tho present cabinet. mw
Athens, March 10, 9 a. m.. via Lon-
don, 11:25 p. m On Wednesday a H
German aeroplane, coming from the
coast of ABia Minor flew over the H
Island of Samos, which lies 42 miles MM
to the southwest of Smyrna, and H
threw bombs at British ships in a M
harbor thcro without hitting any of H
them. The aeroplane returned to H
Asia Minor. M
Chicago. March 11, Following a
proposal made to the Training Camp H
Association last night that a volunteer H
regiment be enlisted through the ef- H
forts of those who took part in tho
training camp at Fort Sheridan last Mj
year, and that the regiment be offer- !
ed to President Wilson in the event m
of need of more troops to meet tho H
Mexican situation, a recruiting station m
was opened today In a downtown ho- M
tel. Enrollment blanks, are availablo
for those who wish to become mem- ;
bers of the regiment and an effort will m
be made to bring tho regiment up to
full strength at once. J
GERMAN MINISTER i
LEAVES PORTUGAL 1
Lisbon, March 10, via Paris, March WM
11, 12.30 a. m After a lengthy inter- H
view with tho Portuguese secretary UU
for foreign affairs, Horr Rosen, the
German minister to Portugal, loft MW
here todav on a special train for Mad- H
rid, accompanied by the other meui- H
bers ot tho German legation. Their !
departure was not marked by any In-
cident. EH
,Mmt
