THE DONALDSONV ILLE CHIEF.
A Wide-Awake Home Newspaper-Published Every Saturday-Subscription Price, $2 a Year.
V DONALDSONVILLE, LA., SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 1916. NUMBER 32
NEWS OF THE PHOTOPLAYS
Coming Attractions at the Local Movie Houses
MARGARITA FISCUER Ano HARRY POLLARD m "THE QULST*
FivE PPRT HUTUAL. HA6TLRPRcPURL Produced by American.
AT THE GEM THEATRE TODAY, SATUDAY, MARCH 11
CAST:
John Douglas, in search of an ideal...
. Harry Pollard
Mrs. Chalmers, the hostess......Lucille Ward
De Villiers, a man-about-town ..
Joseph E. Singleton
Helen Carruthers, a society butterfly...
.. ..... .. Nan Christy
Na o..f AI ARttA.\i:-rtA FlISCHEit
Chief of the 'tribe .. .1 sic h H. Singleton
Kaura, the sub-chief Robyn Adair
The Tribal Priest .. William Carroll
STORY:
John Douglas, Bachelor and society
man, is a cynic concerning the wo
men of society and has pictured as
his ideal one whom he calls his dream
girl. Often in his musings she has
appeared to him, but he has never
seen her in the flesh. Tired of society
and wishing to avoid the approach
ing social season, lie sails on a freigh
ter for a ti it to the Orient, but the
ship is wrecked and he is the sole sur
visor. E -iansted among the wreck
age a vision of the dream girl ap
peari as if 1awing him oil to a place
of safety. Finally he lands on an
island inhabited only by a strange
race of white people, who never be
fore have teen any once - t fmemlbers
of the tribe.
Nai, daughter. of the chief, Neto
rescues . oho from he witr w -i, and he
recognizes her as his girl of dreams.
Frightened at liis behavior when firsti
rescued, Nai detfuuds hI e Iilf and
knocks John uncoli-lou vith a ruock.
Summoning lhilp, she h-us kimn -arried
to the village. where he u: r-c i-ed as
a guest of the tribe.
John learns foroni the pi 1 of the
tribe that an old legend relates that
their ancestors landed on the island
from a shipwreck. Kaura, growing
AT TIlE GEM THEATRE
Tomorrow, Sunday, March 12.
Patrons of the Gem Theatre will
welcome with delight the announce
ment of the appearance there tomor
row of Robert Warwick. the "matinee
idol of the screen," in the new World
Film feature. "The Fruits of Desire."
This picture is an adaptation of the
noted American novel. The Ambition
of Mark Truitt," aiud reveals a story
that is enthrallin - iii its terrific
power.
Truitt is a count iv lad who con
ceives an overpowc-riig ambition to
become a gi-eat power ii the steel in
dustry. In his clay-dreams he often
pictures the peaceful valley in which
he has been lorn and iear-ed, tilled
with belching chimneys anul vast fur
naces under his complete mastery.
As a beginning he hiils good-bye to
his little country sweetheairt and en
ters the employ of a steel mill in
Pittsburg. He st:irts in in the low
est form of manual labor but quickly
is raised to a position as gang fore
man, and soon aftel-warits becomes a
skilled worker in the mills. He
boards with the family of a shop
foreman. The latter's daughter falls
in love with Mark, and gives her
self to him unreservedly. The fore
man is laid-off on accounit of age and
disability, and Truitt has no scruples
about taking his friend and benefac
tor's place in the mill. This estranges
him from the foreman's family. In
hiS upwar-d elinil to powei- Ti-titt ¶
.heastbeenl turns fi-om the girl- who
ha enall to him that a woman
can be.
Tu-uitt fights his way on ielentless
ly. fl~ecomes supei-intenident of the<
mill and then forms a new corpora
tion with one of the vouliger partneis
of the firm. He ireturns to his old
home, marries his first love, and sees I
th reliation of his life's ambition
more jealous, demands that Nai be
married to him at once, but this
awakens her love for John and she
appeals to hiti to save her. In a
primitive battle with Kaura, John is
worsted and cast out of the tribe,
while Nai is placed in her father's hut,
with a guard to watch her. At night
John overpowers the guard and es
capes to the priest's cave, where they
are married. Pursued by Kaura and
his men, they flee to the rocky coast,
and in the storm which breaks, Kaura
is killed by lightning.
For months they live in the forest,
Nai growing more proficient at play
ing upon a larger harp that John has
made for her. Finally a yacht is
seen anchored some distance off shore.
and John hurries to ercet a s: onl
but before it is completed nigh.
comes on and -they retire into the
forest. Here they find the priest.
who has come with word from Nai's
cfathr that if they will return the,
r". rale over the tribe. John re
fuses and takes his accustomed place
bjelore N~ai'a ~mto ~uard1~ j
thol i~,ht. He falh nsa
of their rescue. On the sh:p is De
his former elose friedaw
friedr , flit. John grows
jealous o" !e Villiers' attention to
his wile, and the climax is reached at
N':i's fi.t reception. In a terrible
tagggle, he shoots Nai and is about
a strangle De Villiers, when Nai
eie his 'nm ant lie wikes f om his
dream, finding her trying to rouse
him. le tears down the signal, and
1, aol Nai and the priest watch the
yacht sail away. Then the three start
bark to the village of the tribe.
in the construction of his own great
steel mills in the quiet valley in which
he roamed as a boy.
His wife becomes a mere social
butterfly and the couple are estrang
ed. There is a divorce. Alone in his
great mansion, monarch of all he can
survey from his window's outlook,
Truitt at length realizes how hollow
a victory he has gained in a life of
power without love.
He seeks out the girl of his days in
the Pittsburg steel mill, finds her love
still steadfast, and makes her his wife.
In the cast supporting Mr. War
wick will be seen Madeline Traverse,
herself a film star of prominence,
Alec B. Francis, Robert Cummings,
Ralph Delmore, Adolphe Lestina,
Dorothy Fairchild, Julia Stuart and
Mildred Havens. The picture is the
supreme creative work of Director
Oscar Eagle.
MARGARET THOMPSONrn"THE MATIN99
,MADE DY NLW /RR tTIatiro PICTURSE f OWORAII
GEM THEATRE-Tuesday, March 14
Rank Foolishness.
You occasionally see it stated that
colds do not result from cold weather.
That is rank foolishness. Were it true
colds would be as prevalent in mid
summer as in midwinter. The mi
crobe that causes colds flourishes in
clamp, cold weather. To get rid of a
cold take Chamberlain's Cough Rem
edy. It is effectual and is highly rec
omomendeci by people who have used it
for many years as occasion required,
and know its real value. Obtainable
everywhere.- (Ad%.)
"A Yellow Streak," eloquent with
:omance, thrills and supreme human
interest, will be the offering at the
Grand Theatre tomorrow, with the
distinguished dramatic stars and stage
favorites, Lionel Barrymore and Irene
Howley, depicting the principal char
'cters. The production is in five
)arts, and tells the following story:
Berry" Dale, a Wall street broker,
is financially ruined by his perfidious
(nd faithless wife, and her companion,
tichard Marvin, another broker, who
as posed as Dale's best friend. Dis
ieartened and depressed Dale goes to
.s apartment expecting comfort and
.olance from his wife. Instead he
inds here there in the embrace of
VIarvin. They laugh at him, and Mar
"in, the stronger of the two men, lit
rally throws Dale out of his own
. ome. He gives him a pistol and tells
Irm the whole affair can best be set
led, to everyone's satisfaction, if
)ale will kill himself.
Da'e wanders through the streets
vith this end in view. Long after
niduuight he finds himself on the
3rooklyn bridge, where he observes a
firl about to leap into the river. A
shout from Dale causes her to turn
back and flee. They are mere sil
houettes in the dim light, and do not
;ec each other's face. The girl is
Mary Austin, a child of the tenements,
who has planned suicide to escape
marrying "Jack" Rader, a gdinbler,
.o satisfy a debt her father owed to
Rader. After the incident on the
bridge 'Barry" indifferently wanders
to a railroad station, and buys a tick
et for the west.
In the far west "Barry" brings up
in a little mining town. There he
falls in with an outlaw, who is being
sought by a sheriff's posse. A few,
days later, in a lonely mountain
trail, the posse closes on the out
law. He directs "Barry" to safety,
but is killed by the sheriff. A sky
pilot, who had joined them a few
rr t .:e
SCENE FROM A'YELLOW STREAK
AT THE GRAND THEATRE TOMORROW, SUNDAY, MARCH 12
hours before, is likewise killed by the
posse's bullets. "Barry" buries them
both, and decides to impersonate first
one and then the other.
Tom Austin, Mary's brother, is ad
dicted to drink, and Mary succeeds in
inducing his employers in New York
to send him west. Subsequently, ar
rangements are made for Mary and
er father to join Tom in the west.
Disguised as the outlaw, "Barry"
holds up the coach that Mary aiyl her
father are riding in. Struck by the
girl's beauty, and her plea not to rob
them, I"Barry" lets them pass for a
kiss. Afterward, as the sky-pilot,
"Barry" and Mary become well ac
quainted in the mining town, where
she and her father have taken over a
small hotel. "Jack" Rader, the
gambler, turns up and compromises
Tom Austin in a hold-up. He offers
to clear him if Mary will consent to
marry him. Mary tells the sky-pilot
of her predicament. "Barry," dis
guised as the outlaw, saves Tom and
shoots the gambler in a pistol battle.
When the sheriff's posse arrives he is
disguised as the minister.
With renewed strength and ample
funds "Barry" returns to New York
and seeks out Marvin and his wife.
He throws Marvin into the street and
returns the revolver to him, with the
same advice he received a year before.
Back west Mary waits for the sky
pilot's return, standing every night on
a little bridge that spans a mountain
stream. She is about to despair of
his return, when she hears his voice.
She turns and sees the same silhouette
she saw on the Brooklyn bridge, and
for the first time both know they met
that night.
When the Famous Players Film
Company's clever comedy-drama, "A
Girl of Yesterday," appears at the
Grand Theatre Monday, Mary Pick
ford's innumerable admirers will have
an opportunity to see the world's
most popular motion picture star in
the thrilling role of companion to the
internationally famous aviator, Glenn
Martin. on one of his daring aero
plane flighta. The film, which was
taken in and about San Francisco,
also introduces on the screen some of
the Golden Gate's best known society
leaders, who appear in the scenes
which depict as no other film pro
luction has ever done the real life of
the society belle amid the luxuries,
pomp and ceremonies of the elite of
today. It is of passing interest to
note that the magnificent floating pa
lace which serves as the setting for
"Little Mary's" latest histrionic con
quest is the property of no less per
sonage than John D. Speckles, the
celebrated California multi-million
aire.
Another unique feature of this pro
duction is the fact that, for the first
time since they have been playiig on.
the screen, Mj and Jack Pickford
actually ap a their true relation
sh <'uer t sister.
"The Song of Hate," a William Fox
photoplay of soul-stirring power, bas
ed on Victorien Sardou's brilliant so
ciety drama, "La Tosca," is announc
ed as the Grand feature attraction for
Tuesday. Betty Nansen, the "act
ress who speaks with her eyes," plays
the leading role, and in the terrific
climax of the story her superb art
and wonderful command of dramatic
emotion are seep at heights to which
even this greatest of all tragediennes
has never before attained. Written
in Sardou's most trenchant style,
"The Song o Hate" bites and
scorches like acal the frailties of our
modern civilization, and the drama is
one the recollmction of which will
long linger verdant in the minds of
all who see it -projected upon the
screen. The prices of admission for
this notable production will be 5 and
10 cents.
Mile. Gaby Deslys, the world-fa
mous beauty and dancer, is presented
for the first time to the motion-pic
ture public in an original comedy
drama of the stage entitled "Her
Triumph," produced in Paris by the
Famous Players Film Company and
released on the Paramount Program.
The photoplay was written especially
for the celebrated star, and is so con
structed as to display to the utmost
advantage her versatile and astonish
I ing talents. In die course of the pro
duction Mile. Deslys, assisted by her
dancing partner; Harry Pilcer, pre
sents the dances which have won such
sensational triumphs on the European
and New York stages. The feature
will be the attraction at the Grand
next Wednesday.
All who had the pleasure of seeing
Marie Doro, the captivating stage
star, in her initial screen character
ization in "The Morals of Marcus"
at the Grand Th atre last Wednesday
night, will be delighted to know that
the Famous Players Film Company
has again featured this truly charming
and gifted actress in another Para
mount Picture, "The White Pearl,"
which will he shown at the Grand
next Friday, the 17th inst. "The
White Pearl" is a fascinating combi
nation of romance, drama and mys
tery, which centre about the love of
an American girl and boy, whom
destiny transplants to far-off Japan
under strange and thrilling circum
stances. The production may be an
ticipated as one of the screen events
of the year.
PETRIFIED BODY ON EXHIBITION
Found at Brownwood, Tex.-Thought
Victim of Indians.
The petrified body of a boy, proba
bly killed in an Indian massacre near
Brownwood, Texas, is being exhibited
by Joe Blake in the Grand Theatre
building.
The body is almost perfect. The
pores of the skin are plain in many
places and the lines in the bottom of
one foot and several toes can easily
be traced. Even the teeth have been
preserved in their original whiteness.
An arrow head, which is believed to
have caused death, took away the
right ear and is still sticking in the
head. The scalp was removed.
Doctors have agreed that the body
is that of a boy about 17 years old.
This conclusion was arrived at after
a study of the features, which are not
greatly distorted, and the develop
ment of the muscles. The general
physique is that of a man not fully
developed.
The body was found by J. R. Stew
art while he was digging a stump out
of the ground on his farm last Sep
tember. The soil in which the body
was discovered is of a limestone com
position. The arms are folded across
the body, which was about 18 inches
under the surface. Mr. Stewart
struck the body with his pick several
times but did not break it.
The body weighs 325 pounds, prob
bly 190 pounds more than it would
weigh alive. It is 5 feet, 2 inches
tong. On the left hand there is a
le(ring with a copper setting. It is
th i' ' :ov was
killed eithe ing or before the
Mexican war by Indians. The body
has been exhibited in schools and col
leges.
Sign of Good Digestion.
When you see a cheerful and happy
old lady you may know that she has
good digestion. If your digestion is
impaired o, if you do not relish your'I
meals take a dose of Chamberlain's
Tablets. They strengthen the stom
ach, improve the digestion and cause
a gentle movement of the bowels. Ob
tainable everywhere.-(Adv.)
If you buy out of town, and we
buy out of town, and all our neigh
bors buy out of town, what in thun
der will become of our town?
WHO'S WHO IN REDMANSHIF
Mohawk's Deputy Great Sachem Be.
lieves in Doing Things.
From The Speaking Leaf.
Heretofore we have devoted this de.
partment to recording something of
the life history of past great inco.
honees, but, if we are to follow the
injunction, "honor to whom honor is
due," we must, perforce, broaden oui
scope and say something of those who
some day may be entitled to the rank
of great incohonee.
We ask no pardon of any one over
the fact that we choose a brother
near at home as the first lay member
for recognition in this department.
Brother Paul T. Thibodaux, of Mo
hawk Tribe No. 33, Donaldsonville,
La., has earned this distinction.
This Creole gentleman and true Red
Man has, during the past few great
suns, so completely demonstrated his
fealty to the order that he may well
be pointed to as an example worthy
of emulation by any member of any
tribe, anywhere.
Candor compels us to admit that
irother Thibodaux (Doc., as he is fa
miliarly known) has not always shown
the interest in the order that he has
hibited during the past few years.
He was adopted into Mohawk Tribe
in 1903. For ten years he was quies
Sent, taking little interest in tribal af
f'irs. But, whatever the reason for
these delinquencies, when he did get
going he got going strong and has
been "going some" ever since.
To then Great Sachem Bylsma be
longs the credit of awakening Dr.
Thibodaux to a full realization of the
beauties of our order, in 1913. He
'M6ls soon elected senior sagamore; up
on the resigiation of the sachem he
succeeded to that stump, and was
given a second term. He was captain
of Mohawk's degree team at the meet
ing of the great council at Plaque
mine, in 1914, and Mohawk won. In
1915 he took the team to New Iberia
and won the state championship ahd
the Trepagnier cup. He took so many
of the members of the tribe with' him
that it was impossible to hold a meet
ing of Mohawk Tribe until Doc. re
turned to Donaldsonville. This was
the only time this tribe has missed
holding a meeting in the past three
years. Brother Thibodaux has miss
ed but one other meeting during the
same time, and that was caused by
the severe illness of his younger son.
On taking charge (and taking
barge is right) the affairs of Mo
hawk Tribe were in pretty bad shape.
£he tribe was in debt and the wam
'urn belt empty. It looked like she I
would lose her charter on account of
not being able to pay the per capita
tax. Brother Thibodaux enthused the
membners and persuaded many of
Iee~ v urnishin* .funds to work
On .Nu'y 4. 1914. Mohawk held a
Festival of Nations, and realized a
'-- nunn of money. One week later,
he UIn' is which this money was
e -osited failed. Owing to Brother
FI:ibodaux's forethought, Mohawk's
report and per capita tax were already
o the h' nds of the great chief of
'ecords. Nothing daunted, the mem
bers, with Past Sachem Thibodaux
having just initiated a class of pale
faces known as the "Thibodaux
Class," managed to pay all indebted
ness before the close of the term.
Since Dr. Thibodaux has been lead
,ng Mohawk, this tribe is always -the
first to file its six moons' report and
per capita tax payment with the great
chief of records.
Past Sachem Thibodaux attended
the great council of Louisiana last
year for the first time and was ap
pointed deputy great sachem by the
present great sachem. He takes a
lively interest in every phase of the
tribe's activity and has inaugurated
3veral innovations that have made
the meetings and club rooms more
nopular. _
During the past great sun Brother
Thibodaux has had the pleasure of
bringing into his tribe 37 applications
for membership out of a total of 67
secured by the tribe. Largely through
his efforts, Mohawk was able to win
the first cash prize offered by the
great sachem, and he qualified for an
official watch charm, also offered by
the great sachem.
Doe. has made his family an all-Red
Man family. His older son is a mem
ber of Mohawk. Dr. Thibodaux, Mrs.
Thibodaux, Miss Thibodaux and Paul
Thibodaux, Jr., are members of Nap
onee Council. Even the seven-year
old baby insists upon T. O. T. E. as
his private laundry mark, for he
proudly proclaims himself "Theophile
Oliver Thibodaux, Esquire."
Brother Thibodaux was born at
Thibodaux, Lafourche parish, La.,
Jan. 26, 1874; was graduated from
Thibodaux College in 1891, and the
medical department of Tulane Uni
versity in 1895.
On March 26 and 27 the local Me
thodist congregation will entertain the
western division of the New Orleans
District Sunday School Institute, the
session to include Sunday night,
Monday, and Monday night. A. L.
Deitrich, divisional field secretary, of
Meridian, Miss.; Rev. W. H. Coleman,
conference field secretary, of Shreve
port; and Rev. W. W. Holmes, dis
trict presiding elder, of New Orleans,
will be among the speakers on the
program. Representatives will ,be ex
pected from all the Methodist Sunday
Schools in the New Orleans district
west of the Mississippi river, and
others in this immediate territory.
P. E. Bienvenu has returned to the
editorial chair of the Houma Times,
having acquired a half-interest in the
Wallis Printing Company from A. P.
Robichaux. The partners forming the
company are J. J. Menville and P. E.
Bienvenu, who promise to conduct the
Times in a spirit of fairness to all,
with a view of promoting everything
that portends to the good of the com
muniify, and of deserving the good
will and support of the public. If
that pledge be kept in mind and faith
fully observed, the Houma Times can
never be "sadly out of joint," what
ever may happen elsewhere.
PUBLIC H TH SERVICE.
How the Qoverniiient is Meeting the
Malatr Problem.
Four per cent the inhabitants of
certain sections 6f the south have
malaria. This estimate, based on the
reporting of 2044$81 cases during
1914, has led the United States Pub
lic Health Servie` to give increased
attention to the malaria problem, ac
cording to the a 5ual report of the
surgeon general. ,f 13,526 blood spe
cimens examined by government of
ticers during the year, 1797 showed
malaria infection, . The infection rate
mong white persons was above eight
per cent, and among colored persons
twenty per cent, In two counties in
he lazoo valle ,40 out of every 100
inhabitants presented evidence of the
disease.
Striking as th above figures are,
.hey are no mo, remarkable than
those relating tg. e reduction in the
incidence of tht disease following
surveys of the Iblic Health Service
at 34 places in girly every state of
the south. In some instances from
an incidence of fifteen per cent.tin
1914, a reductiod has been acconm
p!ished to less tlan four or five per
cent, in 1915.
Dne of the im rtant scientific dis
coveries made during the year was in
regard to the conitinuance of the dis
ease from seasofh to season. Over
1000 Anopheline mosquitoes in malar
ous nisti icts were dissected, during
the early spring mnonths, without find
ing a single infected insect, and not
until May 15, 1591 was the first
parasite in the ldy of a mosquito
discovered. The )Pblic Health Ser
vice. therefore, e'acludes that mos
quitoes in -the ladtude of the south
ern states ordimnrily do not carry the
infection through the winter. This
discovery indicates . that protection
from malaria lay be secured by
treating human carries with quinine
previous to the middle of May, thus
preventing any infection fri m chroiie
sufferers reachinvi; iosqeitoes and be
ing transmitted b- them to other per
sons.
Although quinia remain; the best
means of treatingmnalaria and is also
of marked benqfyin preventing in
fection, the eradication of the disease
as a whole .rests: upon the destruc
tion of the breeding places of Anopho
line mosquitoes. The Public Health
Service, therefore, Is urging a definite
campaign of draining standing water,
the filling of low *laces, and the re
.radiag and the diining of streams
where malarial tosquitoes breed.
The oiling of breeding places, and the
stocking of streatry with top-feeding
minnows, are frther recommended.
The Service alsoyes advice regard
ing screening. sin other preventive
fected territo.
This study is typical of the scienti
ic investigations -which are being car
ci out by the Public Health Ser:ice.
"I of which have a direct hearing on
e:adicating the disease. The malaria
ocik now includes the collection of
morbidity data, malaria surveys, de
monstration work, scientific field-and
laboratory studies, educational cam
paigns, and special studies of im
pounded water and drainage projects.
TAKE IT IN TIME
Just as Scores of Donaldsonville Peo- c
ple Have.
Waiting doesn't pay.
If you neglect kidney backache,
Urinary troubles often follow.
Act in time by curing the kidneys.
Doan's Kidney Pills are especially c
for weakened kidneys.
Many people in this locality rec- e
ommend them.
Here's one case:
Jules 0. Ayraud, postmaster, Bar
ton. La., says: "I suffered from kid- v
ney troubles and steadily grew worse. ,
The kidney secretions became unnat- r
ural and scalded in passage: The 9
pains in my back were so severe that i
I couldn't stoop. At times they were v
almost unbearable and at night I
couldn't sleep well. I grew thin and L
emaciated and ran down until 1
weighed one hundred and ten pounds. &
Nothing I took helped me and doctors t
apparently could give me no per- t
manent benefit. - Four boxes of
Doan's Kidney Pills freed me of the
trouble and I felt better than I had e
before in years. I began to gain
weight and I now weigh one hundred t
andl fifty pounds." 1
Price 50 cents at all dealers. Don't
simply ask for a kidney remedy-get
Doan's Kidney Pills-the same that
Mr. Ayraud had. Foster-Milburn l
Co., Props., Buffalo, N. Y.-(Adv.)
Alcohol and Pneumonia. ]
The United States Public Health
Service brands strong drink as hie
most efficient ally of pneumonia. It
declare" that alcohol is the handmai
den of the disease which produces ten
per cent of the deaths in the United
States. This is no exaggeration. We
have known for a long time that in
dulgence in alcoholic liquors lowers
the individual vitality, and that the
man who drinks is peculiarly suscep
tible to pneumonia. The United
States Public Health Service is a con
servative body. It does not engage
in alarmist propaganda. In following
out the line of its official duties it has
brought forcefully to the general pub
lic a fact which will bear endless re
petition. The liberal and continuous
user of alcoholic drinks will do well
to heed this warning, particularly at
this season of the year when the grue
some death toll from pneumonia is
being doubled.
In the district court at Alexandria
Judge James Andrews sustained the
contention of plaintiffs in the suit to
set aside the result of the recent
election prohibiting the issuance of
liquor licenses in Rapides parish after
Jan. 1, 1917, on the ground of ille
gality and fraud. The new police
jury has a "wet" majority and will
doubtless concur in the court's de
cision, but the anti-saloon league has
instructed its couasel to take an ap
peal in the case.
RIVER GIVES UP BODY.
Remains of Gem Pilot Recovered Two
Years After Death.
After having been in the water
since February 14, 1914, the body of
Capt. William Barry, 65 years old, a
licensed pilot, who lost his life when
the steamboat Gem was burned with
the loss of six lives at Hahnville. La.,
was found floating in the river at Nine
Mile Point Sunday. Apparently it
had been buried in the sand near
Hlahnville, twenty-eight miles above
the city, and washed out by the high
water.
Ientitication was made complete
when Mate Landry. who was badly
injured the night the Gem burned,
identikied the watch as one he had
given Capt. Barry shortly before.
A cutf button bore the initial B. Capt.
!iarry's daughter and son and Capt.
R. J. Comneaux, who commanded the
Gemn. rerognizxd the outlines of the
ace and said they believed the body
to he his. A letter in one of tho
-inck ets was addressed to the (Co
neaux-Landry Packet Company and
;vas signed It. A. Birot.
Aotea 'o'clock on the night of Feb
-auary 14. 1914, the Gem was coming
iown the NIississippi river opposite
1 i.i11 :ith six passengers, a crew
iumbering about thirty-five and a
)):;e!ldaneous cargo, including moss.
ilairy had the lights of Ilahnville
;cen pissed when fire was discovered
.n the moss stowed under the steps
le'ding from the cabin deck to the
forward lower deck. A gale was
blowing and the fire made rapid
headway. Capt. Barry was at the
wheel and he headed her toward the
Iianville bank. The first tirr the
boat struck, the wind and current
swept her away from land into the
water. Capt. Barry stuck to his post,
although the flames were shooting up
around the pilot house, and again
steered the Gem into the bank.
This time she stuck long enough
for a gang plank to be lowered. With
the exceptie n of Capt. Comeaux't
young son, Capt. Barry, Mate Landry,
a negro woman passenger and three
negro roustabouts, all got ashore witk
Mlight burns. Capt. Comeaux's son
was unable to reach the side of the
boat against the bank and was burned
to death. The negro woman was
burned in her cabin and the rousta
bouts, who jumped into the river,
were drowned.
Capt. Barry never left the wheel.
Mr. Landry jumped into the river,
iwam to the stern wheel and held on
is the boat drifted down the river.
I'he hulk burned to the water's edge,
was blown ashore about three miles
below Hahnville, and partly covered
by water, stuck on a sand bank. Mate
Landry was rescued after she struck
Aynamxited in the vicinity of I{th
dille. but none of the bodies was
foun . For a time Capt. Comeaux
di ed of dynamiting the hulk in the
.ope of recovering his son's body,
hut never did so.
After receiving first aid treatment
at Ilahnville the survivors were
irought to New Orleans, and an in
vestigation was held by the United
States steamboat inspectors. In the
irst hearing Capt. Barry was criticis
ed, but the case was reopened at the
request of his son and he was ex
onerated.-Times-Picayune. March 7.
BIG REFINERY PROJECTED.
Co-operative Plant Proposed to Man
ufacture White Sugar.
The Louisiana Planter, in its issue
of March 4, published the following:
"New Orleans sugar circles were
considerably aroused this week by a
report that northern capitalists were
behind a plan for the erection of' a
jig white sugar factory in this state
which would handle the ouput of
many of the factories of the state in
much the same way as was suggested
some time ago by the proposed organ
ization of refining companies Which
would be centrally located and which
would refine all of the test sugar man
ufactured in certain geographical
groups. The idea involves the co-op
erative ownership of. the refinery by
the planters who will supply it with
the necessary test sugar.
"The plan is by no means a new one
in this state, but if it were executed
it would mark a very big step forward
in the progress of associated produc
tion and distribution effort amongst
Louisiana sugar men.
"A prominent planter asked as to
the matter, said he had not heard of
any proposal of this kind, but that he
thougit such an idea excellent and
just what is needed now in sugar Lou
isiana. A well known banker who
has been connected in a directive way
with all of the latest progressive
moves in Louisiana sugar history said
he knew of nothing definite with re
gard to the organization of such a
company. Beyond the report and
these comments nothing could be
learned about the project.
"The success of the Planters' Co
operative Selling Committee is sup
posed to have inspired the planners of
this greater eo-operative movement."
When to Take Chamberlain's Tablets.
When you feel dull and stupid after
eating.
When constipated or bilious.
When you have a sick headache.
When you have a sour stomach.
When you belch after eating.
When you have indigestion.
When nervous or despondent.
When you have no relish for your
meals.
When your liver is torpid.
Obtainable everywhere.-(Adv.)
'The action of the federal courts in
Louisiana in adjudging that patents
t to land in Ascension parish held in
f the name of Powhatan E. Causey
r should be cancelled for alleged fraud
- in entry, was affirmed Monday by the
e supreme court of the United States.
0. 11. P. Mitchell of Lincoln parish
s died suddenly of heart failure in the
- courthouse at Arcadia. La., during the
trial of a criminal case.
