fejS Keep Posted on Am. fork-Canyon Coming MiningCamponheS
J AMERICAN FOUR OlTl? EN, 6ATUUOAY, MMIC'II 1, mifi " If I
mW i NlWUlUlt -IS III
mW( DYKE CUTS
1 PACIFIC FISSURE
kHiis Three I'cbt of Steel (Jnlcna In ti.
"ruho anil All Its Oro Illns I'lllcd
WBffllh From $.".0 lo if;r, orr.
.98 H
'I'artlw who camo down from tho
4Bicl(lc mine this week report that tlic
5QHncrs in drifting north on tho big
ksurc had encountered on eight foot
Krphry dyko that cut through on an
most cast-west direction Tho mln-
Hs hail Just gotten through tho dyko
ftd It had not yet been determined
bother the vein continued on through
He porphry In Its regular course,
B whether It had faulted. The por-
ftry Itself was liberally filled with
jHlcmt and appeared to bo at least of
'lllng grade. 11 will bo Interesting
Vifl learn whether this east-west dyke
Bntalns oro ull the way. It is cut-
ig in tho direction of tho Old Wyo-
"ng and may be a now eourcc of oro
Bpply which only development work
In tell.
Tho now ralso Is now thirty feet
Hjm tho tunnel level to con-
Bct with thn next level, 1Q0 feet
'Bovri The upraise now has two feet
H high grade galena which tho mlu-
s arc Backing to ship. Thn same
thorlty also says that the Pacific
Boplc have their oro bin filled with
ptwh grade galena and several slope:)
QjKn filled with no more available
Bacc to store It, whilo waiting fnv-
B.tblc conditioiiB to get it down to
c smelter. This ore Is now worth
SHout $".r per ton and will itself bring
M a nice revenue while they aro witlt-
-Hg to get the mill in operation to
-'ftat tho big supply of second clars
L Mc that has been opened up.
H h
JERCER OF CANADA
I WILL DEVELOP ,
I PROPERTY
HAuitnon Mercer arrived this week
Kim Magrath, Canada, to make itr-
"KBtiEcmrritn lb commencfiopcratlonH'
KB sonic piopcrty In Deer Creek, In
Biicti he and associaten uro Inter-
'(Btcd Mr Mciccr Ik postmaster '.i
'igralli. Canada, but can't keep nwuy
erjHom the lure of American Koilt cun-
'mn In which he has hern Interested
1 Br several ycais It Is uiidciHtood
. Htat he has itome fine ore on a prop-
jty advantageously located and he
'Bomlses to release tonic information
,eB a few dayn that will be Intercst-
Hg reading,
inH
Ilpine-empire clears
i deckjor action
Hmitlntcit or Deer Creck-Slltcr Lake
H. Section Will Soon Ho Busy Scene
uf Mining Avthlty.
ruHA B. Ulbson and Gcorgo A Stone,
rectors of the Alplnc-Hmplro Mining
Jkinipiiiiy, camo In from tho coal
CjBunps Saturday to meet with tlio
Eiuorlcun Kotk dlrectorn on IIusIiicsh,
JPJpll"l'iliiB to t.tartlng operations on
JBKla I'romwlng copper-Icnd-sllvcr pro
Vr)' 0I Mine Hill at tho head of Uccr
reck, J I, Dunklcy Is the secretary
Bfid Theodore Nleholea is the manager
Bid othei local directors. Most of th
Kuide ctock is held by operators in
Be laibou County Coal camps.
BTlie dine tors ordered Manager Nle
Blc: ,0 "'iar tho deck for action m
jee V form or miners will be cm-
wpplii-t ii.it u been oidered for caiij
Hcllvei Woik for the picsent will
e confinid to extending tho old tun
(1 that is ulicudy now In ovci LTii"
J1'01 f'oni the poital Bourn or th
jHf(st coppci oio in tho canyon Cnim
MM of tiih property and a grcute
K'pth i (oiimtil on to produce a bod:
Hm' "
H VMan the lu-eiit map of the district
ka:t gnticit out. an over sight wan
vadc tu leaving this promising prop
jF''v olf Tho dlrictoi'H ordered a uo
Jle. iio ,,nt0 W,ci, w,j B,ow ,,.
jMpropirtj in the wiuthwcst section
W1"' mw map will also show tho Utah
Feiitpiinl.il and hoverul other piopci
let- Unit tt.-(. .ft u (. oilgliui
Shi'ip
H The eoiiiineneejiionl or work oil tin
H'l'Uii Kmnlie I.' Iiavlug all olcclrb'ii'
?tToei in the wmtlitvrat Scetloll or III'
V h'h' and ten or a dozen nilie
j'lnneiMi . iiuIiiiIIiik the Silver K'n
vlouniiiiii King, Htewait, lii.n- fi.i)
H''a M i Milk Muld ami Wnrnlrl
JtaiiGf an muting for the snov t
I leave ho that thoy can get Into the
tienchns. The, Wnsatch llango will
probably bavo their men back Into tho
tunnel before tho Alplno-Kmplrc real
ly gets Into full action.
BAY STATE DEVELOPS
VEIN SHIPPING ORE
Wcien .Sacks Taken Out Tucsduj,
Mlillo Itunnlng JDrirt on tho Vein
Which Is Imported Contains One
I out of Chloride Ore.
George Tyler, manager of tho liny
State Mine, came down from the, can
yon Wednesday with samples of high
grado galena and chloride, carbon
ate, ore, of which ho said that ho and,
Foil Chlpman had taken out eleven
sacks tho day before. Ho now luu
about 100 sacks that ho has taken
out In drifting ulxty feet on the vein,
samples or which nssny high In sil
ver and lead. A car load of this grado
htm now been developed.
Tho Uny State, oro Is found in what
Is known as the No, ti tunnel and lie
in n lima bedding. , Tho face of tin
drift Is now about 3d feet front u ciob
flssuro and as this point grows neat
er, the oro body IncreoscM In size nud
iicbb, und will probably develop
Into a good chamber.
The contractors now have tho low
er or Kelly tunnel in a distance of 120
reel with 60 TcH yet to go to com
plete their contract. The lime Is get
ting softer iib the porphy dyko Is
about to bo encountered. Tho ob
jective point, a big cross fissure, Is
still about ll'O feet yet ahead. When
this flssuro Is reached, it will be
drifted until an Intersection Is made
with the vein ut depth, In which tho
men aro now sucking ore about (!0
feet from thn surface.
Huy State stock Is largely hold by
local people. Itocent developments
have stiffened tho demand for this
stock, which has been changing hands
nt from T to 1 cents per shnrct Sam
ples of the now strike have been sent
lo Salt Lako for assay, and If It goes
as high as some predict, the stock will
tnko another Jump.
ilERAGfWsr
WIUJE OPENED
During the past week there has been
considerable talk of opening a bioit
orago house In this city Tor tho pur
pose of dealing in mining stocks, par
ticularly for the issues of those doing
business In American Fork canyon.
About thirty companies will bo doing
legitimate mining In the canyon this
summer and all their stocks will be
traded in to a certain extent. It would
bo n gtcnt convenience to huvo a lo
cal office, wheici these stocks could
bo handled, for both the bcucflt oi
tho mine owner and the Investor.
At present tho following stocks arc
being handled on the Salt Lake Mining
Exchange: Earl-Eagle ut 20 cents,
Mineral Flut at C',(. cents, Texan at
25 cents, Miller Hill at 20 edits,
Whirlwind ut 5 cents, Major Uvans
at ti cents mid Mountain Lako at U
cents. Many local people aro Inves
ting in Alia, Eureka and other utockb,
who would llko to Invest in American
Fork canyon issues If they knew
where to got them and what prlco they
would havo to pay There arc u score
of properties In tho caiiMon which with
proper development their stock will bo
worth dollars per share and where I ho
money Is used for legitimate mining
purposes, ono is reasonably safo in
buying treasury stock for thin pur
pose.
Tho danger dm lug tho coming sum
mer Is that some "wild cat'v compan
ies may he formed for purely stock
Jobbing purposes. Uul with the help
of legitimate mining men tho pub
licity committee and thn newspapers,
this danger can bo reduced to it inln
linuin.
So far those who aro becoming act
ive aro all legitimate concerns, and
either havo sufficient values to jus
tify tho money being paid for their
stocks, or else have reasonable pros
pects ot cutting oro bodies that will
make them worth considerable, more
than they aro listed for
liter nrit subscriber joh mtiii
u III gltr- jiiii 8,0011 totes fur the aiile.
mobile und ciei) $l,.il paid In on oh
HiihMTlplloiis '.'.Ulll tales. Ileslilei
ciiuiilliig these tali's an Hie auto run
lest, the Cllli'ii ttlll.gltr u I'J.piece
dinner set to the one bringing In the
largest number of subscriptions mil1
collciilons up to .4 pill 11. I.;ii
TEXAN CUTS Ip'f
Fifty iE
J.onrr Tunnel Is Aotr In OrofTfV
POO Fret, and Men uro UpraUll
Connect vfllh Mhaft, V
Parties who camo down frfl(nj3ftj,o
Texan mlno Wednesday reportctfjjat
the men In tho uppor tunnel hav$Jujj
a porphry dyko In tholimei th'ajtl
liberally impregnated with lead, -Jloi
fore prospecting along tho dyko, wm$
ever, tho men will ralso to con:('
with tho shaft which also dioclfajei
Bomo most promising ground, ,yK
Tho lower tunnol Is now in nipwt
900 feet and In ncnrlns JunctipiJfi
two fissures In tho quartslto wnjJm'
Charley Tyng, tho maimgor, counisjln,
making bin big mlnc, and wherojjb'
expects to obtain tho $50,000 wlth-cofl
pound interest that ho linn hlrcrtmr,
put Into tho property's dovcloprnoij
All tho workings In tho Tdxan ion
well timbered nnd of sufficient ti'
to bo used for mining purposes what- .'
tho oro lo struck. No bettor mpjc
work has been done on any properlj
In tho stnte. Harry Kruso, tho supraE,
Intcndcnt, Is morn pleased than CYV
with the disclosures now being niridjB
WONDERFUL CANYON!
CAVE SHOULD BE I
TOURISTS' MECC
' -r,
v
With tho coming or summer. thcrK
will bo more attention brough.t ,tB
American Fori: canyon thr.n nt'Viit
time In Its history. Not all of It wlfti
bo for the mines alone, tm the t-anypt
Is widely noted also for Hb '.iiconft
beauty. . -
In probably no other scctljjii' ift
tho state is thu geology of ro(fk tori
matlons oo clearly revealed. Tho pe$
cipKotm clirfs, hundreds of reef lilgh'B
show the, nctlon of tho heated interior;!!
on tho stratified and twisted llmSti
stones, quartslto and chain ledgch, um
lL48-J-B-iJJgen.iigo.t.Vrcr.ti H
ped on edge and rormed into nil TwTu7 f
of fnntnstlc shapes, Tho hanging L
rocks nnd open eaves, tall pines' and
shady quaken unpen groves, nlbo ap
peal to tho lover of outdoor nature.
But the one thing that will piob.tbu
give American Fork canyon an ad
vnntago over any other In tho sIhk
will bo Hanson's cave, about thr-e
miles up from the mouth or the cu
yon. This cave Is located about o
thousand reel up from tho bottom !
tho canyon, under tho big high lcdr
on the iiouth side. It Is very dUflu H
of access now, because of tho hIi-p
clirfo und ledges It Is necessary to
scale. Ilut u few days work with the
pick and nhovel, powder and dull,
would make it of eusy access. Ii
would bo a great advertising feat me.
and jr given proper publicity, would
draw muny tourists to the canyon.
The opening Is barely wide enough
to admit on ordinary sized Individual,
but when onco Inside, there Is a big
reception loom tin feet high, .mil
about 20 feet in dlumentcr. Leading
off from thiu loom arc nunieioiin
smaller rooinB connected with each
othor by smaller openings, but "Ido
onough to permit of easy entrain c.
Tho benuty of the place, when once
Inside, Is Indcseilbable Tho cue ,
In a lime formation, and tho drlpplur,
water In ages pust bus formed my
rladu or stalactites and staglaiiiltr3.
that btiongly reminded the wrltei,
when ho visited it, of Hm Inteitor oi
Westminister Abbey. London One
section particularly, whom the stnt
actltcs and staglamltes meet Is .
stiong rcBemblnnco to tho pipes or Itu
Abbey's famous organ. In some or the
rooms, tho wntor, as It bus dripped
has been free from mluoral, and l-t
mudo the decoration or a pure whin
In other rooms tho water has been i u
picgnatcd with iron, giving the luu:
tuperiug spindles a red color, wh'cl
when gllBtenlng under the eftect oi .
blazing loich, makcH the scene in h
entrancing, hi one room Is a be in
tirul crystal lako or water alwi.y
cool and a most delightsome place to
tuko ones lunch
Not only cun the cave be mode
mccca ror pleasure seekcre, but It n's
has on Industrial and coiiimoiclal t il
no. In prehistoric times It was in 'i
times tlropor lliiiu It Is now. ' In
dripping water lor rnuntloHH ages ha
filled tho deep wide rnvlllnH will i
rinn grade or onyx, which can In
taken nut In lininonne slabs, dinned
and piMnnrd and ued for Interior
decorallve work.
A dinner mi fno for u little nniV
' ' in I
House CleaninTime
41
You can always depend on getting about I
what you want at the I
Big Red Store I
1
Chipman's Cash Prices Count I
Wull Paper for Spring i(lc pER DOUBLE ROLL AND UP M
FiiiiokMim-iTwo VnnlH Wide llimdsoint! .i(tiim $1.00 AND UP 'I
Oil Cedar Mojis (loo.l Qimlily 39c AND UP !
Fiiico ( 'iirtains New Designs j PAIR AND UP '
Floor JfugK, Jooin Size (!) by 12) $3.80 EACH AND UP 'I
AViiulow Blinds I iglit and Dark Green Only 23c COMPLETE i;
Curtain Poles for Window, (llass Door, or Cupboard ONLY He EACH :
Chair .Seals, like Leather, Jou Quality, ONLY 10c EACH fl
Jiaby fJo-Carts, -l-Wheel Beauties $0.00 AND UP ;
Sulky L-Wheel with Tongue to Pull Only $1.40 AND UP 9
I
MANY OTHER ITEMS JUST AS GOOD AS THESE- , I -I
llChipman Merc. Co. 1 I
MfcrM.-,t2&:AAj-y& ,. ' u.- . . - '''Astir S
' rTrrripw Mini ifi in. , r.. ,, , u. i vji Ml ,,Gmw,"'juX.j;!1:. XytyraBliM
BUSINESS MEN
ORGANIZE A
COMUM CLUB
Mill .Meet ut Luncheon .e( )citiics
dii) at t ale.
Twenty American Folk hiihluetia
men held a meeting in thu City Hall
Thuruday and voted uminlniouHly to
urgunlzu tho Amcjican Fork Comincr
clal Club with tho following offlcciB.
PicHldejit, S, L. Chlpmaiij ,Vlcc-iiros-ident,
Wlllluni Thornton; Bccrctaij,
U. II Holey; Trcnsuicr, J IL Storm.
Those gentlemen will albo form tlio
Kxccntivc commltteo uud will icnort
on plaiiR (or perfecting the organiza
tion at a iiiectlug to bo held In tho
Y C.ito niwi Wednebday noon, when
a chicken luncheon will bo served
Tho object of tho organization lo to
lorin an oigauizatlon to boot bin. I
iichi. and piotlde foi hiccial biiRluct.ii
dii)o loi getting people Into town and
vt along those up who live here, it
la thu right kind or a inocnient mid
will result In great good If coined
out along the lines Mailed on
o
BflfflFULJp LEASED
(Iphir Operators t'ontracf In .Spend
iroiu !fio,i)iio to i:.,onn uithin
One ear.
Tin rientirul mine, owned by Aiim
Icin Koik and l.ohi people, was this
week leaned tor u period ot ono ic.u
to Ophir mining linn who agrc to
Hpeiul ut IrnBt JlO.OOt) on tho pri'p
ei'ly and Jlii.000 ir ntcoHbai Tlio
hate alriady gotten a pait of tho
holsjing machinery on the, gronn I
and will comiucneo at onco opeui ib
tho oie IwdloB known to exist th"'
I he owneiB got out a carload slui
moot labi sumi.ioT nnd onlj two wcci.j
irii reiiiriud Horn Btnrtlng a tunnel
lo tup ll' 'ie at depth. Tlili tunnii
wiih i uti about Id feet.
The nic Is exposed ;ln all liulln
xliafi iiiid drirtH and iij.bioh high '"
load wlih koiiio Hllvor. They al o
havo a good cliowing or zinc Th
leasorti uro also talking of bulldin?
(t iiiialk'mlll on the, prnpeity lo tint
thu low grado, or which a considerable
quantity has been ipr nod up
I
PARENT-TEACHERS "'"
I0p SOCIAL
The Aiiicilcan Fork I'nieiit-Toncli-ers'
aHKuclatloti will give a'paity In
(lie bancmeiit or the Tabernacle next
WedncBilay night. A charge or .'!!
centB per couplo ulll he made and
thu procecda go lo tho iithuol pho
ground fund, ICtcrybody Ih Invited in
bring picnic, cupH and Baucer, and ttf
tcuchcrH will cupply Iho chocolate
llatcn orchestra will bo In attendance,
and all tho parcutii aio Invited.
RARE OPERATION
m J. BECK
J. J Heck or Alpine, is In Iho i'lo
o hoHpllal In a ciillcal coiidltlun
fioin an operation pciformrd on hliu
liiBt TiioHilay. Tho tlot'tni'H wero nl
n Iiibh lo dlagnoiio Ilia cane HiitlHfm
torlly, and when the cut him ope.i
found a largo atone about one and om
", '. ' ' "".' .'i.-.in.T-1; .ifl
J Imlf liiolirn in length lit Iho mouth of 'jH
liiu pnncrca, which would hnvo cuuccil M
I death in a few dnys. TIk upcratlnii, M
wbllo Mieec '.ful. In a tci niro ono H
and leaviu Mr Heek In it piccnilouH
coiidltlun H
RUTLEDGE OPENS I
FORD AGENCY I
F I.. Itulledge, wbo bar bad charge !H
of tins Htlldebalier bilhluehi hero, li.it l
leitHed Iho Htme loom lu Die Clilpinau ill
block caul of tho IIiIkkh' Pharmacy l
and will open u Ford agency here, iH
carrying thu dllfeient Mud or Foul H
cui'B In slock nud ull kinds or ucccb- JH
norloA and Niipiilleu, M
.Mr ItiitledKo ulll hate all Iho t'tnlt H
county imlioo north of I'rnvo nud vlH
piopnxcH lo put nut nioi'o cars hero lH
llian ever Indole Ford piobably luui t'l
more earn cu thu mad than all ut- i
her iiiake toiiibluul and tlio ratio H
HeeuiM to rather lucreaio tliitu illmlii- JH
i,b. '1'he many intern of Ford ciiik will iH
,iiin cl.ilc die contenleiu e of Ford H
ilpplbs in till end of tin roiiuliv 'JU
VELVET LOTION SUff S
No woman who takes prido in keep- Bw2v 'HI
hiR her complexion clear, tho akin jmfljC? Jr ) Vll fli
fresh, nmooth and soft, can nnonl to wz?SJ Ulll)! H
be without this delightful toilet neroa- jteSl? IfiAj H
Hory. Truly it makes tho shin hko WfeV7M H
velvet. Thin crrntny liquid lotion rulw coin, ff ffS$$i&: YJl Mm H
plotcly nnd perfectly into tlio porca of tho Wf S'J&fexffes) MtW R1
ikin. Not n trace or Btickincsn or grcaso W i0t.' ffk2SL Wk
accompanies IU uso. ,.,,, i7 IftfSH'l I 'W&lm mm
SAN-TOX Velvet Lotimi Is ho ideal M fjSrj- ,-i" '; yMjM WS
X5aL application forchoppo.l..r rough iJ A Sw4M S
. AJ liluida, face and nr r,. sun- Wyylm 'MM
li?5fc3ust'try it onco am' pxperlcnwfjSSsf &ffliM$ Q
tM v Cp-itB delightfully Booth g and cmilinir "V &&$MlW B
p f I effect. It cornea in lnmly every day for VrtSBRW'ir 'H
p-mj Your money hack if you don't k ay ii'o tlio .wjr iH
Briggs Pharmacy Company
