t
A
r :
t ...i
' J ;.
r I !
.1 f
-! r
'
:
.'J
M
i:
. .
; i i J
il
V.
.4. . .i
tt
n
ong ci7"Tr"TP' (ga
inn!
PROSl'ER'TY TALK
If yml wurct to ee ti-nl lirnnperilr
Willi ulilil net Tiii'liiy when Akilnr
Shrill" temple'ii I7.ii00.liun l.nJ
J.iinn ImnHii with Al O Field fmnmu
Eiild limid mid lemU the hi Shriller
pHrntle tirent mult.
WEATHER REPORT
2roisrrzrrcj
OKLAHOMA Kmurduy fir, roolor;
Huminv fair, warmer.
Tt I.SA Munh to The temper
lure: Maximum 71, minimum jU; tuulli
winds and i-lrtir.
VOL. XI, NO. 15.1
TULSA, OKLAHOMA, SATURDAY, M
T E N T A 0 K S
PRICE FIVE CENTS
it
.,1
,. J'.,- i .-J
tt n - tt n tt
tt
5Fv i
inng
c. do 1
I get .
t
HEWS OF SECOND ATTACK
BY BANDITS THROWS CITY
INTO A STATE OF FEAR
JHXMOTIX:
cnr.TMtU'S, N". M., Starch 10. Twelve hundred Currunza tioopH, flying
a Murk und white ting to dintliiKiiisli them from ImnditH, roiiclicd 1'uloii'Uh,
nix mllfs smith of the linrder from Columbus, late today. It Ik believed they
intend astdxttng the Ainerleau troops in the pursuit of Villu.
Ill'IJ-CTlN!
("til, I'M HI'S, X. M., March 10. This town whs thrown into a state of
excitement early tonight by a report that Villlstas were about to attack.
Shouts to "turn off the lights" rang through the town.
HIM.CT1X!
niSI'ER, Arizona, March 10. An American rancher was killed early
tonifilit when a band of approximately two hundred Mexican bandits crossed
the border southeast of Osborne Junction, Arizona, according to reports
reachiiiK here toulKht.
Many head of live stock were killed or driven off by the bandits, it wa-j
stated.
WASIJIXOTON', March 10. The administration has received confiden
tial Information from an apparently reliable source that another bandit
attack somewhere alotiR the border may bo made tonight. enoiil Kun
Bton has Informed the war department that ho Is prepared to repel any
utlacks.
in i.i.i mx
101, l'ASO, March 10. Villa Is headed directly for C'asas Orandes, Chi
huahua, In order to attack the five hundred Mormons settled In that section,
Hccordini? to a report received tonight at Juarez by General G.ivira from
General IScrtanl.
Ill I.MOTIX!
COM'MIU'8, K. M., March 10. In response to the urgent request of
Colonel H. J. Sloemn lato -today three companies of the First battalion of tho
Twentieth Infantry were ordered to Columbus from Victoria, X. M., 32 nillea
west. Tho battulion only arrived In Victoria from El Taso at dawn today,
under command of Major Wllllnm Sample, line company remains at Victoria.
HIM.KT1X!
COl.l.'MBL'S, X. M., .March 10. A request was made today by Colonel
H. J. Slocum for ono battalion of infantry and one squadron of cavalry ad
ditional to tho American forces now stationed here. With theso reinforce
ments, Colonel Slocum said "I can then go after him," referring to Vlila and
his bandits.
Ill I.I.KTIX'
I.EAVKXWORTIi, Kan., March 10. I'nited States troops al Fo;t
Leavenworth received orders from Washington toplpht to hold themselves in
readiness to move at a moment's notice.
Theater Crowd Cheers
Wilson for Ordering.
Troops Into Mexico
WASHINGTON. March 10. Presi
dent Wilson was enthusiastically ap
plauded late today when he entered a
theater'to attend a concert. It was the
first time the president had left his
study for more than a few minutes at
a time during tho day.
Within an hour after the word that
the troops had been ordered to Mex
ico hud been given out, messages con
gratulating the president on his action
began arriving at the White House.
One organization in New Orleans of
fered land for concentration camps.
Coi'isiral Dies.
CHICAGO, March 10. Corporal
Michael iiarmazul of muchine gun
troop A of the Kirst cavalry, wounded
yesterday In the raid on Columbus,
N. M., died today, according to a
telegram received here by tho sol
dier's brother, Jsadore,. from Lieu
tenant Lucas.
Prominent Men
Implicated In
Bank Robbery
BKrlal to The Wolrd.
VI AN, Ok la., March 10. As a re
sult of a sensatlonul confession made
today by K. Al. Compton, one of the
two suspects under urrest In connec
tion with the holdup of the First
National bank in which two bandita
obtained $.1,818. W. S. Payne, a liv-
erymnn and Jim lirudshaw, a collec
tor of Vian, were placed under arrest
late Friday and are being held for
further Investigation. Compton ac
companied his uncle, John Compton,
captain of police at Muskogee, and
former chief of the Muskogee depart
ment, and Sheriff C. M. Gray of Salll
saw to a creek about four miles
northeast of the city where the bank's
stolen fuids were buried in four d if -ferent
piacs, Compton said. The
funds, however, were not found. Ac
cording to the authuritlea Compton
confessed that Payne, Ed Oulver. real
estate dealer, who cannot be found,
and Bradshaw, hired him and Hobert
Crittendon of Muskogee, former con
vict, to come to Vian and, hold up the
ban!'., promising them protection for
a division of tho money. Compton
ind Crittendon were aprehended on
" Wednesday night encamped five miles
northeast of ";',e city.
Iloff Is Released.
ST. LOCUS, March 10. Chester
" Iloff, a pltehor, was released uncon
ditionally by the St. Ioulg American
league team today. It is said Iloff
' will go to Little Hock, in the South-
rn association.
Denver Red Cross
Ready to Assist in
Caring for Wounded
DENVKR. Co., March 10. The
Denver chapter of tho American
Hed Cross wired headquarters at
Washington today that it was pre
pared to ship immediately a large
quantity of nonperishabln hospital
supplies to any point. This action
was taken within an hour after
receipt of word from Washington
that American troops had been
ordered into Mexico to capturo
Francisco Villa.
WKSTKIIN TROOPS ARE KKADY,
Major-Genoral Hell Ordered to lie In
Readiness.
SAX FRANCISCO, March 10. All
mobile troops In the western depart
ment were ordered today to hold
themselves In readiness to proceed to
the Mexican border.
Major-General J. Franklin Bell,
commanding the western department,
received the order from Washington
late today.
The mobile troops In the department
are me i wenty-itrst infantry at Van
couver barracks, a battalion of the
Fourteenth infantry at Fort Wright
ifpoKune), a naitaiion of the Four
teenth infantry at Fort Lawson
(Seattle), six troops of the First
cavalry at Monterey, four troops of
mo r irsi cavalry at Nan Dleso ana
two troops of the First cavalry now
on amy at uaiexico on the border,
Troops In Aslaka, It was thought,
would not be called in case of a move
ment to the border, because of the
distance.
Iaredo H Ouict
LAREDO, March 1(1. President
Wilsons decision to instigate a pun
itlve expedition Into Mexico for tin
capture of Francisco Villa and hli
followers has caused little anxiety
in this nnrtion nf tliA lm,i .n
throughout northern Mexico.
liptipini I'Hrrnnva la at n at n..njni
ajara and it Is said in Mexican circles
ne win go to Mexico tjiiy aoout Marco
20.
WILSON GOFS CRdSIXfJ I
W H ILK I 8. ARMY I
IS IXVAUIXU MK.XICO
WASHINGTON, March 10
President Wilson left Washing- f
ton late tonight with Mrs. Wll- I
son on the naval yacht May. I
flower for a week-end trip
down the Potomac river and
Chesapeake bay. He plans to be i
away until Monday morning; un- f
less unusual developments in i
the Mexican situation necessitate I
his return before that time. i
This Is National Baby Week in the
Here Is a Baby Which the Experts
- 'Q ' ' if' m Eti 1
' ' r' r.n I
Youns Mr. j'yner, whose home is in ICIizabeth, X. .1., Is pronounced by doctors and other expeits "better than
perfect." The child, of (ierman-Scolch-lrish parentiiKe. was the winner in the Jersey town's belter babies contest.
Hubert is seven mcnths old, weighs lH pounds, and has never been sick a day in his life.
"Are Hables Worth While?"- That is tho question "Unity week" Is intended to unswer. And Miss Julia Ijin
throp, head of the federal children's bureau at Washington, believes there (an be no doubt us to what the answer
will be. Miss Uinthrop is responsible for the. appointing of tt whole week in which hiinume shall bo paid to the
little ones.
The real purpose of tho movement it to encourage Investigations in cities where tho de'itb rate among infants Is
high. It is also planned to Rive instructions to physicians, nurses, parents and city officials in places where .be
infant mortality is particularly great.
Miss Lanthrop and her fellow workers hope the campaign eventually will end conditions responsible for the
death of ono baby in ever eight Lolow the age of one year.
PAGE TURNS DOWN
SECRETARY'S OFFER
Refuses Tentative Allot
ment Made by Secretary
of the Interior.
0SA0ES INDIGNANT
Says They Will Stand by
Tulsan or Carry Fight to
Floor of Congress.
(Bv JOHN W. KLHNNKR.)
WASHINGTON, March 10. Sec
retary Iane today again post
poned the Bale of the surplus
developed Osage oil lands un
til April 20. At a meeting
of the applicants for the Osage gas
the secretary announced a tentative
agreement had been reached for the
division of the gas territory now cov
ered bv the Foster blanket leases,
which, while It Included 100,000 acres
for Charles Page of Tulsa, but 30,000
acres of the aggregate acreage was in
the territory for which Mr. Page
made application.
Mr. Pugo refused to accept this
acreage which had been arbitrarily
allotted him by the secretary and as
a result, another meeting of gas men
is scheduled for Saturday morning.
It Is thought Secretary ltne may
reconsider his attempt to release the
present gus territory to the Osage
Oklahoma Gas company which also Is
being contended for by Mr. Page and
approve of the original Page propo
sition which calls for a lease of 100.
000 acres adjoining Sand Springs on
(Continued on Page Ten.)
Two Killed Are
Known in Okla.
J. J. Moore, who was killed
when the Mexican ImiihIUs raided
thu town of Columbus was m
cousin of A. L. Myers, bookkeeper
at the .Merchants & Planters
bunk of Tulsa.
Spll to Th World.
OKLAHOMA CITY. Man-h 10.
J. J. Moons one of tlie civilians
killed by Mexican bandits at Hie
town of Columbus, was an undo
of Miss Klslo Andrews of tills
city, employed In a local theater.
Miss Andrews' first knowledge
that tho family was in any daiigiT
came through (lie newsiacrs of
the attack of the Villa bandits.
OKLAHOMA CITY, March 10.
Among those killed by Mexkaa
bandits at Columbus, N. M., ap
pears in the list the name of II.
M. Hurt, cattle Inspector. Tills
Is Dr. Harry M. Hart, veterinary,
and employed by the federal bu
reau of animal Industry. Doctor
Hart Is well known In Oklahoma,
having been employed here sev
eral rears ago and working under
the Oklahoma branch of the fed
eral bureau. He made Oklahoma
City his headquarters. Doctor
Hart's home was In Columbus,
Ohio. He had been In tbe west,
l together, X' aeisM jMr,
HELPMAKEY.W.C.A.
CAMPAIGN SUCCESS
Today
Is Last Chance to
Boost Budget to Twelve
Thousand Dollars.
IT CLOSES TONIGHT
Twenty-ThreeHundred Dol
lars Needed to Make Ef
fort Successful.
TWO thousand three hundred dol
lars must be subscribed before 6
o'clock tonight If the V. W. C. A.
campaign for a budget of $12,000 is
successful. At the close of tho day's
work yesterday $9,700 had been sub
scribed and in order to successfully
complete, their work donations larger
than those of any preceding day of
the campaign must be received.
"However, we are confident that
the 'Tulsa will' spirit will prevail,"
said Mrs. A. W. Itoth last night. "In
the event we should fail it would be
the first time in the history of Tulsa
that such a campaign has not been
successful. Although we are facing a
big day's work we believe that wo
will succeed In getting the necessary
$2,300."
While there have been at least a
(Continued on Pugo Seven.)
"BOSS HARRIS" REPUDIATES THE RELIGIOUS AT
TACK INSTIGATED IN HIS INTERESTS
The World received a long telegram from Oklahoma City last night
signed by J. A. Harris denying that he is responsible for tho attack
on his opponent, Jim McOraw, In the Menace or that he has had any
thing to do with circulating the thousuuds of copies of that paper
which were sent out last week to citizens of this state. Tho World's
information that copies of the Menace were secured from Mr. Harris'
headquarters is from what it believes is a thoroughly reliable souroo
and It refuses to make any retraction whatever until we have more
than the mere statement of Mr. Harris that it Is not so. Wherever
Harris emissaries have gone in tho state during this campaign the re
ligious question has been raised and there is not the slightest doubt In
the minds of any sensible and well Informed person but that they
raised it with the knowledge and consent, of Mr. Harris and their
strenuous efforts to repudiate that sort of political tactics at this time
can not and dues not change the situation in the slightest and Is only an
other way of still spreading it unaer the guise of denying and denounc
ing it and is merely adding Insult to injury. The mere detail as to
whether copies of the Menace were actually being sent out from
Harris' headquarters Is of little consequence, for the fact remains that
this Is absolutely the solo argument which has been used in this cam
paign against Mr. Med raw and not until it had been scattered broad
cast over the state did Mr. Harris come forward with a single word of
repudiation r denunciation. Ills denunciation now Is not in good
faith and is unworthy of any credence whatever, and as long as he
allows telephone calls to be put in from his headquarters and the
names of other people to be used in offoring bribes to secure delega
tions for Mr. McOraw, as the rwcords prove was done with Charles
Livingston in Beckham county, for tho sole purpose of prejudicing the
minds of honest Republicans, and allows such methods to go unchal
lenged, we shall reserve the right to treat any statement emanating
from him with contemptuous disstrust.
We would not put anything past him and his supporters In this
campaign, and as certain as there is a Ood in heaven no political party
can ever hope to command the respect and confidence of an Intelligent
electorate as long as a man Is at the head of it who will resort himself
or allow others do so in his name and in his Interests and behalf that
James A. Harris has resorted to In the campaign to have himself
again elected as national Republican committeeman from the state
of Oklahoma. When politics become so corrupt and disgraceful and
disreputable that these things can go on and when a man's religion
must be trailed In the dust and mire of political pettifogory In order
that some boss may continue himself In power as the head of a close
political corporation dealing solely in patronage and the honor en
trusted to his hands is so much stock in trade, It will be time for all
decent people to quit politics,
Jim Harris must be eliminated from control of Republican politic
In Oklahoma If the party is ever to be successful and the state rtt
deemed from Democratic misrule and tJtrvmci,
United States and
Call Super-Perfect
GERMANS GAIN BUT
LOSSES ARE HEAVY
Large Masses of Infantry
Succeed in Taking
Corheaux Wood.
GUN FIRE TERRIFIC
Berlin Also Claims Occupa
tion of Ridge West of
Douaumout.
TllknYVIXi; large masses of in
fantry against the French in the
Corbeaux to the northwest of Ver
dun the Cermuns after several at
tacks in which they are declared by
Paris to have suffered large casual
ties have retaken purt of the wood
from which tho French had pre
viously ejected tliem.
The entire region aboul Verdun
continues the scene of intense opera
tions. West of Douauiiiont and the
sector embracing the village of Vaux
have been points against which the
tiermuns have launched vicious In
fantry attacks but at both places
their efforts to advance broke down
under the heavy fire of the French,
according to Paris.
Uerlin, however, counters this as-
(C'ontlnued on l'ago Two.)
WILSON SENDS U. S. ARMY
AFTER BANDIT LEADER;
FUNSTON MOBILIZES MEN
WAMIIM.TON. March 10. iiierlcan troops were ordcit il across tho
Is.idcr today President Wilson to take I ranclM o Villa Hilt! Ills hiui
dlli, (Iciiil or iilitc.
I'mlcr llic dim-thin II' not actually the leadership of Major Ocncrnl I'un
Mou, who coded the Philippine insurrection by taking Auiiiiiulilo single),
hanilcil, American columns arc cxiarlcd to la- moving Into .Mexico Is forc to
morrow night. 'I'liey go lo meet about three thousand guerrilla troops in u
mountainous region from which Ciirrniiii troops have fled. No less thaif
five thousand iucnL prolmlilv more, will compi-i' the nicrlcaii cH'illtioii.
Whether this long deferred armed action, which begliu, purely lis n punl-
liu nsiire lo clear northern .Mexico of menacing lai:lll ImukIs over which
Ccncrul I arriina lias no control, shall grow into a general armed iucrcn
tioa or iHS'iipalioii in Mexico, ilcH'iids In a large incisure upon l.cncriil C:ir
raiiji and the Mexican people.
It begins with President W ilson's lecl:ir;ill.ni that It !-. entirely in aid of
the arninji gotei'iimeiil ami without thought of aggression, This slat -mi-ill
, prepared by the president himself, was given out lit the While House:
"An adequate force wi'l he sent lit once In pursuit of Villa with
llic single object nf capturing lilin anil putting u slop to Ills lorays.
"This ran Is- done ami "ill he done In entirely friendly aid of the
constituted authorities in .Mexico and with scrupulous rcsH--t for (he
sovereignly of that republic."
COM FHS WITH CAIIINKT.
President Wilson's decision to depart front the isdicv of wiitclilul unit,
ing, hastened by the Columbus massacre yesterday, was announced today
after II had Im'cii iinaulnioiisly approved by the cabinet ami administration,
leaders in congress. The president's nsMIoii was explained full) to the for
mer who agreed that lie should not lx embarrassed at this ilmc by illsi iissIoiih
of a minority which might arouse trouble In Mexico.
After a brief Cabinet meeting all
which the president was described as
being determined to eliminate Villa
as ho was to eliminate liuerta, Sec
retary linker hurried to the war de
partment and us his firs tuct In office
sent orders to the border troops.
Strict (ViisoiNhlii.
Soon afterward the urmy general
stuff assembled and conferred over
I lie. plans, long drawn and perfected
since the Mexican situation loomed
up as a disturber lo the peace of the
I'nited States.
tleneral Funston telegraphed urg
ing thu utmost secrecy in the urmy
plans. The border Is honeycombed
with Mexican spies and it was agreed
Unit the expedition would bo pushed
to success by keeping Villa and li!"
men ignorant of Its movemtnts.
It is possible that no cor
respondents will lie permitted to ac
company I ho columns. At unv rate a
strict cesorshlp wMI bo Imposed.
Former Hecreta1 (iurrison, famil
iar with the army's Mexican plans by
his association with the crisis of two
years ago, came to Washington and
offered his services to aid his suc
cessor. They were ut once accepted
and Mr. t iurrison went Inlo confer
ence with Secretary Maker at the war
department.
Currana .on-Coiiimlltal.
Oeneral Curranzu in a telegram lo
the state department expressed regret
at the Columbus massuero but mude
no comment on the proposal of send
ing American troops to hunt down
the bandits. Kllseo Arredondo, his
ambassador here, was officially In
formed of the Ainerleau govern
ment's action. Ho replied only thai
he would communicate with his chief.
He has previously expressed tho per
sonal opinion that the movement
would not lie opposed.
Statu department officials declined
lo say what their attitude would be
if Oeuerul Carrun'a took a hostile po
sition. They said the I'nited States
would settle that question when it
arose. If an offer of co-operation of
( 'urra i.ji troops was mude, they suid,
it could hardly be refused.
Action Has Precedent
Today tleneral Carranza ordered
live thousand troops from various
garrisons to move upon the Villa
forces. The effect if their advance
probably would be to keep the Villa
bandits near the holder but Secre
tary Lansing announced during the
day (bat no matter how far into
Mexico It was necessary for American
forces to penetrate or to what num
bers it became neeessaiv to Increase
their force, the I'nPed States would
consider th" expedition a punitive one
purely for the suppression of outlaws.
For such action there Is ample prec
edent In International law and in fact
In tho relations of the I'nited States
with Mexico.
How many of the twelve thousand
Iroops now on the border will be em
ployed has not fully been determined.
Tho general plan will ho to distribute
the infuntry to guard tho border
towns, while the cavalry will bo re
leased for scouring the mountains,
deserts, sngebrush and arroyos. In
order not to weaken the defense of
border towns It may be necessary to
move other troops from Interior posts
to the border.
Mujr I'sci Ilio uvy
No prospect of using the national
guard exists In the situation tonight.
but any larger sealo of operations
would Involve It. No orders have been
given to tho navy. The fleet with
more than ten thousand bluejackets
and marines available for landing
duty Is on tho winter drilling ground
off Guantunamo, Cuba, within easy
Hailing distance of Mexican waters,
bliould anti-American demonstrations
or uprisings endanger other foreign
ers. Whllo the government counts tho
naval force as available, there is
every disposition to do nothing in the.
way of a navy demonstration which
might be regarded as menacing
Carranr.a from whom the I'nited
States hopes and expects co-operation,
passive at least If not active.
In sharp contrast to tho stirring
oenea in congress two years ago
when President Wilson ordered tho
fleet to Vera Cruz, tho president's
uction today ' was received with
marked complacency In both house
und senate. Members had prepared
lo make speeches urging action hut
when word went around tbut tho
president had ordered In tho troops,
expressions of approval were heard
on both sides of tho chamber.
I .el President Act.
Senators Fall and McCumber (Re.
publicans) both Introduced resolu
tions proposing occupation and polic
ing of Mexico with large forces but
they consented to permit them to bo
referred to the foreign relations Com
mittee without debate. The pleas of
the administration loaders to let the
president deal with tho situation in
Its present phase seemed to be accept
able all around.
Tho president outlined his position
fully to Senator Stone and Represen
tative Flood, chairmen of the foreign
committees. Soon after Mr. Flood in
formed the houso committee and Mr.
Stone called a meeting of the senate
committee for tomorrow morning for
tho same purposes. The object of ad
ministration leaders will be to prevent
us far as possible all dlsciislon in con
gress und to block any effort that
would interfere with the president or
Indicate that the I'nited States is en
gaged In any but u purely puuitlvo
expedition.
In his action today, it is pointed
out, the president is wholly within his
constitutional prerogative to repel in.
vasion.
WOMAN TELLS OF
MEXICAN BANDITRY
Koldied ller oC Jewelry and
Then Murdered Her
Husliand.
tel. l'ASO, March 10. Seventy
women refugees from Columbus ar
rived hero today. Tho party included
Mrs. Maud Wright, who, after nina
days as a prisoner with Villa's army,
escaped during tho raid, and Mrs.
Ritchie, ho accompanied her here
fur interment of the body of her hus
band, W. T. Ritchie, tho hotel pro
prietor, murdered by the Mexicans.
Mrs. Ritchie was suffering from a
painful bruise of the left hand Inflict
ed by a bandit in wresting four rings
from her fingers. loiter she rocelved
from tho hospital where tho wounded
Mexicans were taken, the following
message in Kuglish:
"I sorry I take the rings."
The writer was the man who hud
struck and robbed her und later took
part in murdering her husband.
"We were awakened by a fusillade,"
said Mrs. Ritchie, "und shortly after
ward the bandits broke into our room
and demanded money. Mr. Rllchin
was sick in lied. He told me to hand
them fid while all I could muster uus
$7. This was not enough so they
robbed me of lings. My hushuud was
attacked ut the same time and hauled
out of the room. My daughter Ktlna
found him dead at the foot f the
stairs."
Mrs. itll'iiie escaped uhile the hotel
In which llio tragedy happened was
set on fire by tho raiders.
Corpus CI i list )r.
COItl'l'S CHRISTI, Texas. March
10. Nueces, one of the lurgest coun
ties of South Texas, todav voted for
prohibition by a majority of 2S8.
Corpus Chrlstl, the county seat and
largest city returned un antl-prohlbl-tlou
majority of ii-'ti, The complete
vote was: For prohibition, 1,770;
against 1,544.
Forty-three saloons will be elimi
nated by the law, which becomes ef
fectlvo May 1.
