HOME EDITION
vV
J
1 TODAY'S PRICES
' Van bank notes ttn WHO 8014
- l T'.an ji.-sos 4 NarlonalM Wll "
' . irrunza, urrency Sfc Bar I'v"'
dliiri.n . Harmon quotations)
I'opinr $!S OO0Z8 10 Clraln higher
' iMMixk uteadjr Htooka firm.
S
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
VILLA m
. .
IlLlu n I IVI i y
"Will Be Done In Entirely
Friendly Aid Of Author
ities" Says Message.
GUTIERREZ SAYS
HE CAN GET VILLA
Notifies Gen. Gavira That
Mexican Government Can
Cope With Bandit.
O
FFICIAL notification was eh en
Saturday morning by U. S.
consul Thos. IX Edwards to Gen.
".ahricl Oaira, of the Juarec Carranza
earrison, that American troops would
nter Mexico in pursuit of Villa and
that the movement of troops would be
iu friendly 'aid t)f the constituted au
t horities.
Ucn. Uavira refused to comment upon
il communication, other thftn to say
that the matter was one for the first
chief. .
Message From Eansine-
The oommunieation was a telegram
direct from secretary of state Lansing
10 consul Edwards, for tracsmtuion to
dbe Carrenta commander, ,and tipon the
UM1.1VI1I wB mnxiinu lite v.wi jlv
Gen. Gavira with the compliments of
consul Edwards." The communication
read:
n adequate force will be sent at
onro in pursuit of Villa with the single
intention of capturing him and putting
a stop to his forays. This can and will
be done in entirely friendly aid of the
- institute? authorities iu Mexico and
wit1! scrupulous respect for the sov
ruigntv of that republic."
Gutierrez Says His Force Adequate.
i ofiicial wire from Gen. Luis Gu
i n rrpr commander of the armies of the
r, institutional cause in Chihuahua to
i.fii. f.abriel Gavira Saturday stated
that he frit the Carranza forces were
adequate to cope with Villa and to pre
vi nt anv retreat bv him and his forces
jntu smitlioin Chihuahua. Tlie eom
munieation stated that there are 900
li'i n now in the San Geronimo district;
'.nit in Santa Clara; 600 in the Guerrero
district: 300 between Laguna and Saur,
and 50 in reserve to be sent in what
ever liireetion was deemed best.
ilia, it was stated, was Saturday
Tnnrniug lietwpcn Ascension and Janos,
and (Jen. Francisco Bertani, who is oon
.iiiitinir the campaign against him, was
Nit unlay morning at Palomas. I
MEXICAN CENSORSHIP PLACED
ON ALL MESSAGES FROM U. S.
New York, March 11. The Mexican
government has Imposed a censorship
on all telegraphic and cable messages
from the United States Into Mexico, It
was announced here today by the
w eetern Union and Mexican Telegraph
loinpaniess The only land messages
which the Mexican government will re
ceive must be routed through El Paso
anfl be written In English or Spanish ,
This Information was conveyed By
the government authorities In Mexico
titv to the Mexican telegraph office.
18 IU BANDITS MAID
SECTIOMIMILPISS
COLUMBUS, N. M.. March 1 1. Eighteen mounted Mexicans are re
ported as having raided the home of H. A. Blankinship, section fore
man at Malpais. 1 8 miles east of Columbus. The family, including two
small children, escaped through a rear door and crawled to cover in the dark
ness, where they lay in the bush most of the cold night. Train number 8, arriv
ing about daylight, was flagged and the family was taken to El Paso.
The raiding squad is said to have passed south into Mexico.
Mrs. J. J. Moore, who was injured in the raid on Columbus Thursday
was reported as being in a more critical condition this morning, but her wounds
are not thought (o be fatal.
Mrs. Blankinship and her two children arrived in El Paso about 8 oclock
this morning. Mr. Blankinship remained at his post at Malpais.
Mrs. Blankinship said they saw the Mexicans approaching and ran from
their home into the hills without taking time to put on any clothes over their
night clothes.
In the Spirit of Service To
SINGLE COPT FIVE
CAIIDKES
Used Black and White Flags
to Show Friendly Force;
Fake Signal Fires.
Gen. Bertani, Carranza commander
In western Chihuahua reached Palomas
Friday -Afternoon with black and (white
flags flying to let the United States
troops know that his was a friendly
force and was cooperating 'with the
Amtilcan forces -"
This Information was received by
Carranza consul Andres Garcia Friday
night -Gen. Bertani reported to a
Carranza consular representative that
he nail not seen Villa but believed that
his force had scattered and were mak
ing for the mountains to the south and
west of Palomas.
Fake Fires Hum.
Gen Bertani, in order to deceive the
Villa forces as to his course and, if
possible draw them Into a trap, built
fires in the opposite direction from the
one he was taking toward Palomas In
the hope that Villa would see these
(Ires, charge them and reveal his hid
ing place.
These signal fires were seen by the
residents of Columbus Thursday night
and were thought to be those of Villa's
bandits.
Mexican Refugees Say They
Are Here For Safety Only;
Will Observe Neutrality
A number of prominent Mexicans,
representing the various factions of
exiles In Bl Paso, .were summoned Fri
day HJcht to the police station, and
scuinddd out as to 'their attitude on the
present conditions' along the border.
The refugees stated to Capt W. D.
Greet that they had come to El Paso
and the United States for protection
against ungovernable conditions In
Mexico and thev had no intention of
exercising any partisanship or doing
anytning mat wouiu ue construed as a
violation of the neutrality act.
OFFICERS AREWATCHING
FOR AMMUNITION SMUGGLERS
Extra precautions against the smug
gling of ammunition across the bor
der by Villist.is have heen taken by the
provost guard and the customs of
ficiala It 1b believed that a large
amount of ammunition Is being smug
gled over Into Mexico at the sparsely
settled points above El Paso.
"k Ann jusTiFinn iv
citossron nomiKit- bbvax
South Bend, Ind , March 11 "This
Is the first time we have had sufficient
cause to cross the border," said Wil
liam Jennings Bryan, expressing ap
proval of president Wilson's course in
sending troops Into Mexico to capture
or kill Francisco Villa.
Three Comic
Pages Today
The Herald Was compelled today
to omit one of the usual four pages
of comics printed in the Week-End
edition. Because of the fact that the
genealogical map of Ireland is in four
colors, it was necessary to print it
on the last page of the color section.
This forces us to dispense with one
of the comic pages for today only.
U PUIS
EL PASO. TEXAS.
CENTa
SEIZES
One Alleged Spy, Caught
Signalling, Wears Uniform
Under His Overalls.
VILLA WOUNDED
WILL BE TRIED
Murder Charges To Be Pre
ferred Against Prisoners
Taen After Raid.
COLUJtBUS, X. M., jrarch 11. The
arrest of several Mexicans sus
pected of being ilia spies divided
interest among civilians here today with
the preparations of the military for the
pursuit of Francisco Villa and his ban
dits. The American soldiers, officers
and men, jn their preparatory activities
displayed an eagerness for the receipt
of the order that would, start them into
Mexico.
Mexican Balled.
Early Friday night a Mexican refused
to obey the command of an American
sentry to halt The Mexican was killed.
Scouts brought in reports that Villa
was at Boca Grande, 25 miles southwest
of here.
Vllllsfaif Charged With Murder.
Raven .wounded Villa soldiers, cap
tured by Col. H. J. Slofium's troopers of
the 13th United Statos cavalry In
Thursday's battle here, will be charged
with murder for the killing of the sev
en American soldiers slain In the fight,
according to an announcement today
by E. B Stone, special aeent of the de
partment of Justice The prisoners In
clude a boy 12 years of age and two
officers.
Stone said he would confer today
with Summers Burkhart. United States
district attorney in New Mexico and
that the charges probably would name
Francisco Villa, the insurgent chieftain,
who led the raid on Columbus.
Stone added It was probable that
similar charges of murder would be
filed against the prisoners In the state
courts of New Mexico in connection
with the killing of nine civilians by
bandit raiders.
Signals to Villas rrrsted.
Pablo Sanchez, arrested while signal
ing Mexicans across the border yester
day and held as a spy, will be charged
with aiding an enemy while on the soil
of the United States, an offence for
which, under several sections of the
federal penal code, a penalty of 10 years
In prison might be Imposed The mur
der charges against the Villa soldiers.
Stone declared, would lie because the
raid was carried out, not by recognized
belligerents, but by bandits whose lead
er was a man who had been prescribed
as outlaw by the de facto government
of a country with which the United
States was not at war.
Xnmes of Men Arrested.
The men against whom the murder
charges are to be filed are:
Lieut. Ysabel Chavez with two years'
service under the Insurgent chief, and
Leno Luis, Juan Sanchez. Ellas Meras,
-.,.1 Antonio Morandas. privates The
boy Is Jesus Rayes, who with his father,
Ausleto Bayes. joined Villa three
months ago In Chihuahua.
The death of Jesse Taylor, a wounded
American soldier, Friday, at Fort Bliss,
will be the basis for the eighth charge
of murder against the prisoners who
aro nil so badly wounded that a United
States commissioner probably will be
summoned here from Demlng or Albu
querque to arraign them as they He In a
hospital tent In the cavalry camp here.
Vllln Incited Men to Murder.
Stone declared the cases against tho
prisoners hid been rendered particular
ly strong by the fact that evidence had
been lounu, "'-;"" " " ru
from Villa s offii ial correspondence
which was picked up on the battlefield,
to show4hat while Villa was approach
ing tttnce the rai1 on Columbus he
addressed his troops, telling them to
spare no American, to burn and loot tho
town and to make "human torches" of
every man, woman and child.
Snncher Seems Spy.
Sanchez was picked up with 15 other
Mexicans Friday by cavalry patrols. All
but Sanchez were released, some being
ordered across the border as suspicious
characters.
Sanchez claimed to be a rancher but
(Contlnned on race 5, Col. S)
American Beauty Rose
Blooming In El Paso
The first rose of the season Is
blooming in the yard of J. L. Wil
son, H10 Arizona street It Is an
American beauty. Browing out In
the yard, and the flower is a full
blown, well developed, as pretty as
anything produced In May and
June.
MEXICAN ll'T
IT; IS SIT
IT SEHf
SATURDAY EVENING. MARCH
vii I a spifs iy rfjmi II q i
COLUMBUS
Fhotographs by Vi II Home, 709
Commercial hotel, Columbus, N. M.,
Thursday morning.
E)xHS MmM'&mi S
fcBiWjtai .J aniiin TuuThnliimi Tiiiiin i E. iii....Mi. . .i I 1
TUPS III SEST TO
IU BORQEH
Airplanes' to Be Brought Here for Scouting Work in
Mexico; Regulars From Inland Posts to Take Place of
Border Brigade; Mountain Batteries to Accom
pany Troops; To Commandeer Auto Trucks.
T.WO companies of the 10th In
fantry, stationed at camp Fort
Bliss, will be cent to Demlng,
N M, this evening to guard that city
and the surrounding country from pos
sibilities of raids by Mexican bandits
from across the border 'Capt. Cham
berlain will command them
This ws. ordered by Gen John J.
Pershing Saturday morning. The com
panies of the !0th which are to go
have not been designated. The troops
will leave on a special train and will
go Into camp at Demlng to guard the
eming district.
Company to Ysleta.
At noon Saturday one company from
the 10th Infantry was serjt' to Tsleta
for border service.
No advice had been received at Fort
Bliss up to noon of the departure of
Gen Funston from San Antonio.
Ilimy nt Fort.
At Fort Bliss. Camp Fort Bliss
and Camp Cotton United States
troops are Dusuy mujubcu ,,, j,.
paring for the expedition to Mexico.
At Fort Bliss, where the Eighth cav
alry headquarters equadron is sta
tioned, the activity was unusually
brisk Saturday morning. The troopers
received their monthly pay from Capt.
A. P Watts, post quartermaster; the
troop'ers were busy getting their field
equipment In shape to go at a mo
ments' notice, and there was a Beneral
air of expectation at the post The
horses of the cavalry are all being
reshod, the saddles and bridles over
hauled and new equipment Issued
wherever necessary. The wagon trains
are also being put Into condition and
the pack trains are being prepared by
the civilian packers for the expedi
tion. .
Artlllerr ltenilr to "
At Camp Fort Bliss, where the
Fourth artillery has two batteries, the
artillerymen are busy preparing for
active field eerIce. As this command
Is a mountain mule battery it will
probably be taken to Mexico with the
expedition of cavalry as theso are ideal
for use In mountain country. The
CAPTURE OF PANCHO VILLA
FRIENDLY ACT OF ASSISTANCE
Pursuit and capture of Villa, an
international outlaw, and his band
of brigands is tho sole purpose of
the punitive expedition to Mexico, de
clared Gen. John J- Pershing, who
may command the expedition in pur
suit of Villa. Ho issued the follow
ing statement Saturday morning:
"It should be deeply impressed
upon everybody that tho i only pur
pose of the entry of American troops
into Mexico at this time is the pur
suit and capture of Villa and his band
of brigands. ...
' "It is a most friendly act of assist
ance on our part. This should be
fully recognised by all true friends of
the de facto government on both sides
of the line.
"It is no time to indulge in ldlo
theories about invasion. 1 give the
Mexican people too much credit for
common sense to think they will not
gladly accept our aid in eliminating
n international outlaw.-'
Mexico. Not Hostility, Washington Acts
II, 1916.
DELIVERED ANXWHERE 0 CENTS A MONTH.
f
WRECKAGE
East Fourth street, of the rums of the
looted and burned by Villa bandits on
B? TD MARCH
battery of the Fifth artillery will be
left in El Paso for the protection of
the border. The field wireless com
pany I, which Is stationed at Fort
Bliss, will also be taken to Mexico with
the expedition from IH Paeo as it will
be of great service in communicating
with the border after the expedition
gets into Mexico. The ambulance corps
and wagon trin will also be taken.
The cantonment hospital organization
was recently distributed along the
border.
Troops rnr El Paso.
Stationed near El Paso at the present
time Is a headquarters and nine troops
of the Eighth cavalry, at Fort Bliss,
tho Seventh and 20th infantry regi
ments at Camp Fort Bliss, the Six
teenth and Sixth infantry at Camp
Cotton, a troop of the Eighth cavalry
at Fabens, one at Fort Hancock and
one at Sierra Blanca. At Columbus the
13th cavalry is stationed on tho border.
Other llrgnlar to Come.
As the troops of the border brigade
are moved Into Mexico to reinforce the
first expedition and to maintain a line
of communication it is probable that
troops will be brought from the Inland
posts to take the places of the ones
moed Into Mexico xnis win inciuae
troops at D. A Russell, Wyoming, at
Plattsburg. N. X., the 21st infantry In
Oregon, the 11th infantry in Washing
ton, and cavalry troops stationed on
the Atlantic seaboard and In the north
and middle west These, in turn will
be moved into Mexico for the chase
after Villa if it is found necessary and
the national guard regiments in the
southwest, esoeciallv Texas. New Mex
ico, California and Arizona, will be
moved up.
It is probable that. If the regular
artillery Is taken from hero that the
Boswell artillery Battery A of the
New Mexico national guard, will be
brought to El Paso. It is one of the
crack regiments of the national guard
organization and was recently declared
by Gen. John J. Pershing to be one of
the best he had ever seen in action.
Alrplnnen Herp.
It is probable that at 'least one If
not a flock of airplanes will be brought
to Bl Paso. Douglas and Columbus
from the airplane field at San Diego
and from Fort Sam Houston to be usijd
for scout duty in Mexico: These air
planes will be in charge of the army
aviators and will be assigned to tho
punitive expeditions. The motor trucks
of El Paso, which were listed by army
officers Friday, will not be comman
deered until they are heeded for mov
ing supplies Into Mexico for the U. S.
army A force of clerks arc working
night and day at the El Paso quarter
master depot to prepare supplies for
the invading force and at Fort Bliss,
where the post quartermaster corps is
located, preparations are being made
to supply the Eighth cavalry for its
expedition.
THREE ARIZONA RANCHERS
FIRED ON BY MEXICANS
Washington, D. C, Mach 11 Consul
Osborne at Havre reported today that
when the Norwegian bark Stilus from
New York to Havre was torpedoed
without warning in Havre roads on the
night of March 9, seven Americans
aboard were rescued.
The loss of the SUius was first re
ported Friday night from London.
Three members of the crew were re
ported lost.
1:
IUSS I BaaH U Esst B B W 1 sP B B
i iHflaf HiPa llf" r1 SHi If Sfl
First Chief Asks Permission to Send Troops into United
States in Pursuit of Bandits; American Plans Are
in Hands of Gen. Funston Who Will Direct Puni
tive Expedition; Gen. Pershing May Lead.
ASHINGTON. D. C. March 11. While Francisco Villa was re
ported fleeing southeast today with 300 troops into the interior of
Mexico and United States army forces under direction of Mai. Gen.
Frederick Funston were preparing to take the bandit leader dead or alive.
Gen. Carranza sent a message through U. S. consul Silliman. asking permission
to send troops into the United States to pursue bandits. Carranza expressed
regret for the Columbus massacre. It is believed the United States will grant
the request.
It is realized that such an arrangement would go far toward satisfying
Gen. Carranza and permit Kim to comply with popular sentiment in Mexico.
Gen. Carranza's note will be answered after it has been laid before presi
dent Wilson. The reply of the United States probably will say to Gen. Car
ranza that his suggestion will be considered if at any time it should become
necessary for his forces to pursue bandits into American territory through the
lack of a sufficient number of American troops to do the work.
VILLA REPORTED AT ASCENCION.
Latest reports of the whereabouts of Gen. Villa say he reached Ascencion,
south of Palomas, some time Friday with 300 - followers, after his flight, fol
lowing the attack on Columbus. This information, reached here today in a
message to the Carranza embassy from the El Paso consulate.
Advices from Columbus expressed a belief Villa had left Bocas Grandei
and was proceeding south.
The presumption is Villa has heard of the ring which is to be drawn
about him and is heading rapidly into the interior, probably to seek refuge in
the mountainous district of western Chihuahua.
FUNSTON HAS FULL AUTHORITY.
Secretary of war Baker announced that full discretion as to the number
of men to pursue Villa and the route to be followed has been left with Gen
Funston.
Secretary of war Baker especially referred to the expression "defensive,"
as in line with the administration's policy of regarding its action as one to repel
invasion.
COMMITTEE ENDORSES EXPEDITION.
The senate foreign relations committee today unanimously endorsed the
action of the president in sending American troops into Mexico to capture Villa
and his marauders.
Acunn Transmits Note.
U. S. consul Silliman transmitted the
following communication dated at
Guadalajara, Mex , March 10, which
was handed to him by Jesus Acuna,
Carranza's minister for foreign affairs.
It is a reply to the American govern
ment's representations for permission
to pursue the Villa bandits with Ameri
can forces.
i Cnrrnnzn'M Ifcffftngc.
"In due reply to your courteous note,
dated yesterday and transmitted today,
through Mr. John W. Belt (SUllman's
secretary), I have the honor to Inform
you that having brought the above
note to the attention of the first chief
of the Constitutionalist army, be has
directed me to say to you that he
learned with regret of the lamentable
Incident which occurred in the town of
'Columbus, N M
"That although there has been a com
petent number of forces In the state of
Chihuahua to reestablish order and af
ford protection to nationals and for
eigner ever since Francisco Villa ap
peared in the mountains of the aboe
state, the first ihlef ordered the tinielv
departure of 25 000 men. commanded
by Gen. Luis Gutierrez, with instruc
tions to actively pursue the bandits
who had jut crossed the line into
American territory, which they un
doubtedly did, compelled by the tena
cious pursuit of the above mentioned
forces.
"Like Geronimo Unlit"
"This lamentable Incident (the Co
lumbus raid) Is similar to the incur
sions which were made In tho states of
Sonora and Chihuahua by Indians from
tl)e reservations of the government of
the United States aboi t the year 1S80
when Geronimo, the Indian chief, in
vaded a part of the state of Sonora,
committing many murders and depre
dations until after a long and tenac
ious chase by American and Mexican
forces, the band was annihilated and
its chief captured.
"The Incursion into Chihuahua, led
by the indlin chief Vittorlo, command
ing about 800 Indians, took place be
tween the jears 1SS4 and 188R
On these two occasions, through an
agreement between the governments
of the United States and Mexico, it
WEVTHEK FOHECYST.
TA Paw ami west Ta, fair and cool
rr; New Mexico, fair; Arizona, fair,
wHjcMly fooler.
32 PAGES. FOUR SECTIONS. TODAY.
was determined that the armed forces
of both countries might freely cross
from the territory of one to the other
In pursuit and for the purpose of pun
ishing the above named band of ma
rauders. "Recalling these good results for
both countries, the government pre
sided over by the first chief, anxious
to exterminate within the least pos
sible time the hordes led by Francisco
Villa, who haB been recently placed
beyond the law, to capture him and to
apply condign punishment applies to
you 'as confidential agent and ad
dresses the government of the United
States requesting the necessary per
raisedon for Mexican forces to cross
into American territory If the Incur
ion which took place at Columbus
should unfortunately be repeated In
any other part of the boundary line.
The Mexican government would greatly
appreciate a prompt and favorable
reply from the government of the
United States.
"Please accept the assurances or my
high consideration.
"Jesus Acuna, Secretary.
"In charee of the department of
foreign affairs "
57 Bend Meilcnnn nt Colnmbm.
Gen Funston i onflrmed today the
(Continued on pase S, Col. 1.)
Save Graphology Plates
READERS of the interesting
. series on Graphology now
running in The Herald ara
advised to clip and save the ar-
tides from week to week, since
the Illustrations of various styles
of handwriting are referred to
again and again: the Illustrations
may appear a week ahead of the
descriptions, and the descriptions
In today's article refer in part to
last week's illustrations, while the
Illustrations in today's paper will
be discussed also next week. Sae
all the articles and you will find
the study most interesting
