THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 1, 190
A Democratic journal, devoted to Local and 6~ncral Ncws, Literature, Sciencc. )gric~lturc, Etc.
VOL. XL COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 1916 NUMBER 21
, .... .. .. _ ._ - - -
The Work of the School Improvement
League.
With the entertainment of Feb.
28 ended the lyceum course fur
nished by the ladies of the School
Improvement League for the ben
efit of the Colfax high school and
the public generally.
These lyceum courses are worth
far more to the school and com
munity at large than our people
realize. Our high school stu
dents and those of the upper el
ementary grades receive a stim
ulus to their interest in their lit
erature and music that is of no
small value to them in their
school work.
These entertainments are also
a benefit by way furnishing re
laxation to the grown-ups, and
evenings of good wholesome
amusement for the children.
But they have a much more
substantial value to the school,
as will be seen by the following
report of money expended by the
League for the benefit of the
school during the past six
months:
F. F. Hansell, for books $70 00
Latt Lbr Co. for lumber
and library table........ 18 13
Colfax Livery Stable for
ice....... ............ 7 40
T. H. McNeely for book
cases...................... 42 55
Colfax Light and Power
Co., lights ............... 9 25
Total............... $147 83
This $147.83 has meant more
to the school than one at first t
thought would suppose. The 4
board put up dollar for
dollar 70.00 for books,
thereby giving u-1JQ to re
place the most necessary of -
our high school library destroye '
by fire. By this means a $140.00
library of most valuable books is
placed at the service of nearly t
every home in Colfax. Book
cases and reading table have been
furbished for the library at a
cost of $51.55. Ice was furnish
ed to the school during the ex- a
tremely warm weather in the G
early fall, adding much to the '
comfort of the children. The f
lumber furnished has made poe- ,
sible the simple play-ground ap- a
paratus on which scores of chil- I
dren find constant delight.
The ladies of the School Im
provement League have made f,
themselves so necessary to the
school that I do not see how we p
could get along without them. b
For example, I do not know
what we should have done for
money to replace our library if
the School Improvement League b,
had not come to our assistance. ti
The library that was destroyed t
by fire was built up slowly c
through a period of ten or twelve m
years. The high school regula- re
tions made it necessary to replace
it at once. By the assistance of
the ladies we were able to re
place the most necessary part of
our library immediately. D
The ladies of the School Im- 1
provement League deserve the i
support and encouragement of o
the entire community. They u
raise the money with which they
help the school by the sale of et
tickets to the lyceum courses.
We hope that all our patrons and
friends will again invest in tick
ets, as I know of no other way N
so small a sum can be made to *
yield so large a return to the p1
whole community. T.
Of course a profit is made pos- E
sible on the lyceum courses only th
because the ladies give their la- th
bor-and many days of hard or
work it takes too-and then buy va
their own tickets the same at
other people. s
My thanks to the ladies of the x
School Improvement League for er
their untiring efforts and to the
people generally for their pat- ta
ronage. Respectfully,
J. R. DEMOSS. by
ent Card of Thanks.
Colfax, La., March 8, 1916.
eb. Editor Colfax Chronicle:
ur- Please allow us space in your
ool paper to express our heartfelt
en- thanks to those who assisted us
Ind in our grief and sorrow at the
death of our father, Henry D.
rth Preuette, and to those that came
m- and showed their kindness to us
ple while in jail. We thank you, one
tu- and all, and will ever remember
el- you for your kindness, but do
m- hope you will never have to bear
lit- the burden of grief that we have.
no Thanks to all for your kindness.
eir PRUETTE BROTHERS.
Rank Foolishness.
You occasionally see it stated that
re colds do not result from cold weather.
nd That is rank foolishness, Were it true
ne colds would be as prevalent in midsum
mer as in midwinter. The microbe
that causes colds flourishes in damp
cold weather. To get rid of a cold take
ol, Chamberlain's Coug Remedy. It is
effectual and is highly recommended by I
people who have used it fgrt many t
he years as occasion required, afid know
he its real value. Obtainable everywhere. t
ix Send us your job printing orders. t
00 Ocial Proceedings of Board of School
Directors of Parish of Grant.
CALL FOR BOARD MEETING.
Pollock, La., Feb. 28, 1916.
Mr.
You are advised that a special meet- s
ing of the board of school directors of i
the parish of Grant, La., has been call- 'I
ed by the president, Hon. J. H. Mc. ti
Neely, to be held at Colfax, La., at 11 p
a. m. Wednesday, March 1, 1916, for d
the purpose of calling an election in e
re Montgomery school district No. 21, to n
st take the sense of the citizens and prop
le erty taxpayers, qualified to vote in such
elections, for the issuance of a ten b
thousand ($10,000.00) dollar bond issue, d
S, the net proceeds to accrue from the L
e- sale thereof to be used in building and D
f equipping a school house in the said o
) school district No. 21, and for the pur- tu
Schasing of a school site, if such should p
be necessary. et
By order of the president of the said
y board, Hon. J. H. McNeely. sc
k J. N. WARNER, Ri
Secretary. d
Colfax, La., March 1, 1916. el
1- Pursuant to the above call the board b
- of school directors of the parish of ni
Le Grant, Louisiana, met in special ses- ti
sion and was called to order by the ar
president, Hon. J. H. McNeely, and the fo
e following members answered to their fo
names, to-wit: J. H. McNeely, of
)- ward one; A. W. Stewart. of ward two;
I. T. C. Lincecum, of ward five; N. S.
Roberts, of ward six; and M. E. Jack- ol
son, of ward seven. I. J. Rhinehart, D
is
- of ward three, and E. A. Wall, of ward
e four, being the only members absent do
e There being a quorum present they sa
e proceeded to transact the following te
business: cc
ORDINANCE NO. 7. be
Creating Montgomery School District
r No. 21. b
f The following ordinance was offered tr
e by N. S. Roberts, who moved its adop- To
tion, and it being seconded by M. E. Si
d Jackson was placed before the body by
the president, and on roll call it was
Y carried unanimously, each and every su
e member of the board present voting (y
yes, or for the adoption of the resolu
tion:
Be it ordained by the Board of School
Directors of the parish of Grant, Lou- et
isiana, in special session convened: eli
f Section 1. That Montgomery School I th
District No. 21 shall consist of the fol- (
Slowing territory, to-wit: Sections 15, an
16, 17, 18, 21, 22, 23, 27, 28 and 33, th
and fractional sections 20, 29 and 32 er
f of township 8 north, range 5 west, La. Scl
Y Meridian. he
SSection 2. Be it further ordained, W
Setc., That all ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict with the above be an
and they are hereby repealed. of
ORDINANCE NO. 8.
Mr. M. E. Jackson offered ordinance no
SNo. 8, who moved its adoption, duly pri
seconded by Mr. Stewart, and it being vo
placed before the board by the presi- the
dent, J. H. McNeely, A. W. Stewart, bo
T. C. Lincecom, N. S. Roberts and M. sei
E. Jackson voted for the adoption of we
rthe ordinance, nays none, whereupon ins
- the chair announced the adoption of the the
I ordinance by the board by unanijnous
r vote. the
P Whereas, it is necessary that a new Ap
school building be built and equipped at low
SMontgomery, Louisiana, in Montgom- the
ery school district No. 21, and Pa
SWhereas, the citizens and property at
taxpayers of the said Montgomery fice
school district No. 21 have requested tor
by petition that the mid school building se
be built and equipped and a site be pur
chased, if necessary, and
Whereas, it is necessary and desira
ur ble for funds to be raised for said pur
pose, and
Whereas, it is the voluntary will of
US this body to call the election hereinaf
he ter provided for, and
D. Whereas, Article No. 281 of the Con
ne stitution of 1898 and 1913, and Act No.
256 of the legislature of 1910, as amend
ed by Act 218 of 1912, declare the
2e school board of the parish to be the
er governing authority through which the
10 said Montgomery school district No. 21
t may incur debt and issue negotiable
bonds for such purposes, when so au
thorized at an election to be held in the
S. said Montgomery school district No. 21,
and
-Whereas, the assessed valuation of
the said Montgomery school district No.
21 amounts to one hundred thousand
r. ($100,1)00.00) dollars, and the proposed
ie indebtedness does not exceed the con
n- stitutional limit of 10 per cent of the
be assessed valuation, and
1 Whereas, the special tax necessary
ie to be annually levied to extinguish the
)y proposed indebtedness will approximate
y ten (10) mills, which will not exceed
w the constitutional limit per annum on
e. the dollar of the assessed valuation of
the prolperty of said Montgomery school
- district No. 21, now, therefore:
ol Section 1. Be it ordained by the
Board of School Directors of the parish
of Grant, Louisiana, in special session
convened, That an election. shall be
and is hereby called to be held in the
t- said Montgomery school district No. 21
f in the parish of Grant, Louisiana, on
I- Tuesday, April 11, 1916, at which elec
tion the majority of the property tax
.1 payers of the said Montgomery school
r district No. 21, in number and amount,
n eligible to vote and voting, shall deter
o mine the
PROPOSITION
h PROPOSITION to incur debt and issue
n bonds of the said Montgomery school
district No. 21 in the parish of Grant,
e La., to the amount of Ten Thousand
d Dollars ($10,000.00) to run for a period
d of sixteen (16) years, bearing interest at
the rate of five per cent per annum,
d payable annually, the funds thus deriv
ed to be used for the
d PURPOSE of building and equipping a
school building at Montgomery, Louisi
ana, in the said Montgomery school
district No. 21.
Section 2. Be it further ordained,
etc., That the ballot box, necessary
blanks and other necessary parapher
f nalia, shall be prepared by the secre
tary of the board of school directors,
and he shall cause to be printed ballots
for use in said election in the following
r form, to-wit:
r FOR ISSUANCE OF BONDS.
PROPOSITION.
To incur debt and issue bonds -
of the said Montgomery School Y' ai
District No 21, in Grant par
ish, Louisiana, to the amount b
of ten thousand ($10,000.00) v
doiars, to run for a period of o
sixteen (16) years, bearing in- 8
terest at the rate of five per
cent per annum, payable annu
ally, the funds thus derived to NO
be used for the purpose of
building and equipping a school
building at Montgomery, Lou- Cl
isiana, in the said school dis
trlct No. 21. S,
Taxable valuation, $.........................
Signature of voter ... .....................
NOTICE TO VOTERS. e
To vote in favor of this proposition, tr
submitted on this ballot, place a cross in
(X) mark in the sqnare after the word at
"YES." To vote against it, place a til
similar mark after the word "NO." ar
Section 3. Be it further ordained, se
etc.. That the compensation of the
election commissioners and the clerk of da
the said election shall oe two dollars
($2.00) per day for one day's service, Sc
and that the election shall be held in
the John I. McCain store at Montgom
ery, La., in the said Montgomery)
School District No. 21, by the officials AI
here named, each being a regular voter: CE
W. O. Harrison, Dave Mathis and John
I. McCain shall serve as commissioners
and J. M. Wardlow shall serve as clerk th
of the said election. Ai
Be it further ordained, etc.. That isi
notice of this election containing the la'
proposition herein submitted to the ex
voters shall be prepared and signed by PB
the president and the secretary of this
board, and shall be published by the da
secretary in the official journal by four
weekly insertions, the date of the first Cl
insertion to be thirty (30) days before
the date of the election.
The said notice shall further recite
that on Wednesday the 12th day of
April, 1916, the first day after or fol
lowing such election, at 12 o'clock m., joi
the Board of School Directors of the
Parish of Grant, Louisiana, shall meet
at the court house at Colfax in the of- w
fice of the said board of school direc
tors in said parish, and there in public
session open the ballot box, examinine Co
Extraordinary Sale Fine Merchandise
at a Big Discount during the entire month of March
In order to reduce our stock before moving to our new building April
1st we offer the following liberal discounts from our regular prices:
25 per cent off our entire stock of Cut Glass, Rock Crystal and Thin Etched
Table Glesses.
33 1-3 per cent off our entire stock of Hand Painted China and China Novelties.
25 per cent off our entire stock of Mantle and Wall Clocks.
50 per cent off our entire stock of Work Baskets, Waste Paper Baskets and
Flower Baskets.
20 per cent off our large selection of Sterling Silver Picture Frames.
33 1-3 per cent off our entire stock of Musical Instruments, Guitars, Mando
lins, Violins', Accordeons, etc.
25 per cent off our entire stock of Quadruple, Silver Plated and Sheffield Plate
Hollow Ware.
20 per cent off our entire line of Sterling Silver Hollow Ware.
25 per cent off our entire line of Silver Plated and Sterling Silver Cased Toilet
Sets.
25 per cent off our large assortment of fine Gold Handle Ladies' ,end Gentle
man's Umbrellas.
25 per cent off our entire stock of Solid Gold, Gold Filled, Sterling ilver and
Silver Plated Mesh Bags, Vanity Boxes and Card Cases.
50 per cent off our entire stock of Silver Deposit Ware.
25 per cent off our entire stock of Serving Trays.
C. A. SCHNACK
JEWELRY Company
Second Street, - Alexandria, La.
nd count the ballots both as to num- I Cat This Out...It In wor]L t1u I La. .!...
and count the ballots both as to num
ber and amount, and examine and can
vass the returns and declare the results 4
of said election, and promulgate the
same.
J. H. McNEELY,
J. N. WARNER. President.
Secretary.
CERTIFICATE OF BONDED INDEBTED
NESS.
STATE OF LOUISIANA
Parish of Grant
This certifies that there is no indebt
edness of the Montgomery School Dis
trict No. 1, Parish of Grant, Louisiana,
incurred under Article 281, of the Con
stitution of 1898 and 1913, for the ex
tinguishment of which special taxes
are by law required annually to be as
sessed.
This done and signed on this the 1st
day of March, 1916.
J. N. WARNER,
Secretary of the Board of School Di
rectors. Parish of Grant, Louisiana.
Countersigned by
E. S. MURRELL,
Assessor of Grant Parish, Louisiana.
CERTIFCATE OF TIE CLERK OF COURT
AND EX-OFFICIO RECORDER.
This certifies that E. S. Murrell is
the lawfully qualified and commissioned
Assessor of the Parish of Grant, Lou
isiana, and that the undersigned is the
lawfully qualified and commissioned
ex-officio registrar of voters of said
parish.
This done and signed on this the 1st
day of March, 1916.
JAMES J. O'QUINN,
Clerk of Court and Ex-Officio Recorder
of the Parish of Grant, Louisiana.
Caannt PraiiiThm Enogh.
Many sick and tired women, with
aches aid pains, sore muscles and stiff
joints, do not know that their kidneys
are out of order. Mrs. A. G. Wells,
Box 90, Route 5, Rocky Mount, N. C.,
writes: "I am taking Foley Kidney
Pills and cannot praise them enough
for the wonderful benefit I derived in 9]
such a short while." J. W. Duncan
Co.-Adv.
Cat This Out---It Is Worth Maasy.
Don't miss this. Cut out this slip,
enclose with 6i to Foley & Co., Chicago,
Illinois, writing your name and address
clearly. You will receive in return a
trial package containing Foley's Honey
and Tar Compound, for lagrippe coughs
colds and croup, Foley Kidney Pills,
and Foley Cathartic Tablets. J. W.
Duncan Co.-Adv.
I unncan tgo. -AGV.
"Telephone as
You'd Be Telephoned To"
TELEPHONE courtesy Is
just a bit of ordinary
politeness and everyday
kindness that we put into
our conversation when we
talk by telephone.
Its the face to face brand
of politenes and kindneas
used when we're voice to
voice.
It's the same politeness
and kindness that we like to
receive from the other end
of the wire.
Givinga ittle thought to tle..
phone courtey and practicing
its sdmrp rules will make the
CUMBERLAND telephone an even more offi.
TELEPHONE & cnt aid for you. "Telephone
TELEG RAPH CO as You'd be Telephoned o
tsosgpyJ~' 4ht4L,,· J
Bas Sg Chiili
Mrs. P. Rebkamp, 2404 Herman 8L.
Covington, Ky., writes: "I have bres
using Foley's Honey and Tar for nearly
two years and can find no better cogh
cough syrup. I have eight ehldrhem
and give it to all of them. They were
subject to croup from babies on." It
is a safe and reliable medicine. J. W.
Duncan Co.-Adv.
