Fair Association To Be Organized Saturday, March 18, 3 p. m., at theTCourt House.
The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV IT. FRANCISVILLE, WEST FPELICIANA PARISH, LOUISIANA, SATURDAY., MARCH i, 19111 NO. 0
THE FORD TRACTOR
Model B
Notwithstanding the recent heavy advances in the price of
steel and iron, and practically all materials used in its con
struction, THE FORD) TRACTOR, New Model "B," with its
many up-to-date improvements, maintains its supremacy as
the lowest priced serviceable tractor on the market.
e& ,,, $465 , .0 -
S Equipped Factory
I HAVE ON HAND ONE TRACTOR, OELLING AT 350 f.o.b. FACTORY
CHAS WEYDERT.
- --
HONEST WEIGHTS HONEST MEASURES
GEO. RETTIG
The Grocer.
HONEST VALUES HONEST PRICES
- - - - --- - - - - - - - -
MIFM'S RAl PHMAC
I,.T Saes.y Firs Drag Store..,
WOODLAWN FARM
J. B. McGEHEE (1886-1918)
We stand upon the threshold of a new year, to bring,
we trust, harder work than ever with its attendant mauling.
But thus compelling our faithful fields to unlock their stores
to us and to those dependent, to furnish cheer for the guest
within our gates and help for our less fortunate brother, we
shall find as always the complete satisfaction that CRrATION
1 porfct and EARTH an admirable home.
Our best wishes to every sentient being I
SUCCESS LIES IN MUTUAL SERVICE.
J. . McGEHEE - - Laurel Hill, La.
COAL! COAL!
When in need of Coal
that will burn, ring
Telephone No. 1.
Prompt delivery.
Bayou Sara Ice &
Coal Works.
TIME&MC ANSWERS
DR. PIERSON'S SUR
Another chapter in the Titmes-Plc
yun'wPlerson ease was published In the
New Orleana newspaper. last Sunday,
when the answer of the TimesPica
yune Publlshing C'o to Dr. Pierson's
libel suit was given to the public.
A geln.ral denial is entered as to
the intention of defendants to Injure
Dr, Pierson The position of the Times.
Picayune in resard to publication of
the series of articles aci ding to the
suit is given in the foilowing para.
grapb:
"Respondent avers that the said ar
tidles are just. fair and true comment
and eriticism of the officials and public
acts of plaintiff and were published in
the interest of the public, with good
motives and for justiflable ends; that
said articles were published in good
faith and without mallce in connec
tion with a publle Institution for the
information ~ the public and are priv.
ileged. and thiat respondent had ample
grounds to believe and did honestly
believe in the truth and puatness of
said critieal comments."
The foilqwing instances are cited to
sustain defendant's contention:
(aW K'lltw Jurglewizex, a criminal
insane petrwson roam the pariah of Or
leans, was kept in Irons for several
years; at erst leg irons were clamped
on him. which wore into his eash,
neceltating his wrapping them with
rags to avoid the chafing wounds.
Jurglewlca escaped several times, but
at no time did he attack any one or do
any harm; hel: he, was last returned
to the hospital, not only was he fitted
with shackles but his irons were added
to and he was kept practically In soil
tary confinement. Besides the shackles
on his lep, his hands were held apart
by a steel rod bar, about tea Inches
long, and about his wrists were as
tened cuffs that were cleviced to this
bar; the result was that Jurglewics
could neither bring his hands neaer
together than ten Inches nor separate
them further, and as separate mem
ers they had no side play because of
the bar. To prevent him from raising
his manacled hands to his head or face
a trace chain was placed from baads to
ankle Iron and he, therefore, could not
raise his hands above his breast A
sleeping place was built for Jurglewie:
of heavy plank, it was about eighteen
inches hllh, about twenty-two lnchs-l
wide and about as long as the body of
the man, it was fitted with a lid on top._
which was stoutly hinged in this crib
or den Jurgiewlez was placed at night
and the lid shut down and fastened
with two stout locks and the shackles
at his legs were chained to the foot of
this crib or den As the result of this
trealment Jurltlewle was unable to
take a bath. or be bathed, except at
infrequent lnte-rvals. when the shackles
were remrved, and durins the day in
summer he sat arounld covered only
by a nllght shirt, or what was known
as a "monkey suit." and in winter by
a blanket
(bi Jules Stokey, an Insane person
sent from New Orleans, autered a frac
ture of bhi leg, neceiltatlnlg an ampu
tatian thereof, which operation was
performed without complete aneathe
sia The leg was thrown Into the
furnace and burned instead of buried
(c) Mary Daigle, an inesae Ilrl
about sixteen years of age. while being
bathed by an insane person, at the
sname place where a little glirl had been
severely sncalded a fortnight betore.
wars so severely burned by hot water
that she died the next day. after hav
ing moaned and sulffered for aix hoursl
throlugh want of Rttentilo.
Maurie Yearso#n and Lucy Keit were
alnso sealdedt while being bathed by an
tnsane person.
td4 That work done by Insane per
sons. clh' is 55 ewing, embroiderlna
and fancRy needlework of every descrip
tion, was taken over by Dr. Pierson
and his famll3 and either tused by them
or sent to relatives or friends without
compensatioil being made to the lstate
or makers
(let That tulrkeys and boga were sent
by express to relatlives and friends
without tile state being Ic~omplensated
therefor, the state paying the express
charwge
if) That the employee of the state
and inmates of the asylum were used
to make clothes, tennisl trousers and
golf hate for the frends eand relatives
of Dr i'tereson without comlpnsation
being mande to the state( or makers,
Ig) That an etmploye of the asylum
taught a ih-ld ot Doctor Pierson with
out c·ompenasation to her or the state.
tB) That an employs of the asylum
Ireated the erltire osf otore Plierse
without compensation to her or the
state.
(1i That the offce of assistant store
keeper was created in order to give a
position to a relative of Doctor Pierson.
(j) That regular employes were dis
charged from service, in order to em
ploy members of a circus band at an
increased expense.
(k) That a printing outfit was pur
chased with state money and has
never been used.
(it That a well was driver, rnd pol
luted water from the laundry+' was used
in the fushing of same while It was
being bored, thereby polluting the well
and thus making It so insanitary that
it Is uresl.s and an abw)lute loss to
the state.
(ml That Insane persons are used in
the institutional drug stores to ill pr.
rsriptions and to deliver narcotics and
deadly drugs.
in) That attendants give hyp.erder.
inic injectons of morphine. etc.
(0) That Inmates of the' asylum are
whipped with stripe cut from rubber
hose,
apt That a carpenter and Inmate of
the asylum was sent to Natchitoches
to work for Doctor ptw-on without
compensation to the state or the car
penter.
(q) That an annual plcnie is given
at an expense of several hundred dol
lare without the asylum obtaining any
advantage or benefit therefrom.
Concerning Dr. Pierson's promised
statement to the public, the Times,
Picayune says:
"When these articles were begun,
Dr. Pierson asked that the public sus
pend judgment until publication was
completed, when he promised fully to
answer and vindicate himself,
"Upon the request of Dr. Pierson,
The Times-Picayune reprinted a set of
resolutions passed by the board of ad
ministration of the insane asylum
Thee had been printed on the day
after their adoption in The Times
Plertme.
'"The editor of The Times-Picynae,
on the day following, wrote Dr. Pier
son, noting the publie appeal for a sna.
pension of judgment, and otfered to
prrtt say stateltment Dr. Pierson should
wish published, making the reservation
only that the statement in defense
should not exceed ten thousand words.
"The series was suspended to permit
Dr Pierson to explain his side.
"Dr. Pierson failed to answer the
charges but. instead, filed suit for one
hundred thousand dollars against the
Times-Picayune"
PROGR81ESSIV NOT A WHITE
MAN'S PARTY.
(Pointe coupee Banner,
What causesa Is surprise is that in
the light of present experlences. Mr
Parker did not four years ago make a
desperate attempt to "seize" the O 0
convention and dictate his own nomil
nation for governor. The ambition was
at that time lurking, but the time was
not propitious Then came the "Mooser"
call of Teddy Roosevelt, and tlrue to
his promise, "I" Parker answered.
Teddy had failed to control the Repub
liasn national conventlon and dictate
his own nomination as the Republican
Eandidate for prealdent lie and his
Republican supporters bolted and form
ed the Progreselve party When that
party met in national convention. its
MompiePion was badly mixed. NeMgres
were plentiful in its councilrt, "Teddy"
In an effort to capture the nelro sup.
port of the country, lstepped to the
front of the platform, a nearo on cach
side of him, and with his arms aroulnd
the necks of both, he tenderly ex
'laimled: "My friends, these two broth
rns are the equals of every man in this
•onviention !" participating thereinJohn
11 Parker did not rise to his feet and
dieny the assettion of his "hero," yet
he has the assurance and temerity to
veli "the Pro~eassive party is a white
man's party " Parker stands registered
in the political records of this State as
a Progressive aend not as an Independ
eant, the latter being "neither fish nor
fowl." Every man who votes for him
must neceeaurily leave the white man's
party and endorse the princitples of
ProglresslveRepublieansm and all that
it stands for. This is patent.
in the Third district they sy tariff
is the issue in this eampaign, and
votlnl for Parker is tndorsing the
taritff on sugar. Yet, outsitde of that
over-rated district Mr. Parker's sup
porterse say he is a D)esoeral and
-against the bouses If there are any
bosaes to Hsrpas those in Latforrhe.
their name should be ipublished No
wonder the "short ballot" s a part of
their platform --A Democrat Besause
of Moose Hossesu In TmeaPicayune
A term in odfe will in most eaam
kWl the redeem beg ia a usan
FAIR ASSOCIATDON
TO BE ORANIZED
When people of sound judgment and
undoubted business ability ar,. willing
to put up money on a proposition, it
must be a good proposition That Is
what is happenntg In the rash of Ihe
vtrlish fair Pledges of eorMnl'1ration
and financial help are coming in from
all sides. The following list of pl.rdges
will give you an idea of the men who
will back up the fair movement:
Parker Stock Farm . $10,.00
Woodlawn Farm .... .00
Chas. Weydert .... ... 1300
The True Democrat... 10.0
' 'oilkes, Sr.......... $4n
0 I. Plettinger....... 3.e50
Financial assistance will also be
given by M. & K. Wolf, Dr i. I. Iewls,
and others.
Many interesting and encouraging
letters have been received relative to
the parish fair.
A meetinl Is called for .tuturday.
March 18. 3 p. m., at the court house.
for the purpose of organizing a Parish
Fatr Association. All interested are
cordially Invited to attend and pas
ticlpate in the discuaeions and business
transactions.
Superintendent R. H. Crump haa had
some large placards printed which
bear the following message to the
people of the parish:
"A parish fair would be helpful to
West Felielana Parish fo, the follow.
Ing reasons:
"1. It would advertise the resources
of the parish. The best of the exhibits
awould be sent to the Stat Fpair at
Shreveport and other fairs, West Fe
liciana would be placed on the map.
"2. It would stimulate the production
of better crops. pure.bred alnmals
pigs, cows, horses, sheep, goats, chlck.
eas, etc.
"3. It would Increase the value of
farm lands, and town and country
property, by bringing new people to
the parish and creating a greater do
miand for our tarass and other property.
A large population produces the 'un
earned increment' In value of lands.
"4. It would be a great educative
agent, giving an opportunity for the
exchange of Ideas and plans, oontrast
ing what can be done with what some
are doing, breaking down the prejudice
of the country against the town. en
couraging the 'get together' Idea. We
are too much isolated from each other
We need to work for the Interests of
all. An apportunity would be afforded
the farmers to hear lectures b) ex
perts from the Agricultural Colllege and
the United States Department of As
riculture.
"i It would be an occasion for the
purchase and sale of the best breeds
of animals, giving opportunity to stork
the farms with good animals and fur.
nlshlnlg a medium of exehange to pre
vent In-breeding, ete.
"Theae are but a few of the posslble
advantages. The Ireater advantages
eannot be measured in dollars and
cents.
'Wilt, YOU HIILP"'
At Angola there has been a constant
Ipatrol of 140 men In the day and almost
a* large a force at nllght have been
watching and strengtheninl the levee,
There were two wave washes at
Antola., which. but for prompt work
,nmight hapve proved serious.
The automobile is rapidly entering
the realm of farm mechanis.
.To the Independent, True Democrats of the
Parish of West Feliciana:
We will hold a meeting of the Independ
ent Democrats of the Parish, for the
purpose of organizing a
Parish Parker Club
at the Court House, on Saturday, March
I I,at 8 p. m.
All respectfully invited to attend.
E. I. DANIEL.
NOTICE TO CATTLE OWNERS.
S-t Franrtsvills, Il.. F'eb 28. 1916.
t'atle o,ers In parishes having a
tiol.td'rabtie portion of its acreage un
der 8 at(r as a conslequelnce of the re
ccnt overflow should take advantage
of this eonditiontl anld rid their pastures
of the Te~as fe,%er. or cattle tick.
'Pasture's that ha.ve beet Inundated
for a few weeks will be entirely clean
of this infcrtion, all eggs and seed
ticks will haveo beqtt destroyed: ceonti.
qJuenrtl)' If all rsattle front these locall.
tie- are prope'rlt dtislufeted, thus de
stroylau all the tclks oni the animals
beforer they are allowed to return to
the range. thea,' parthcular pastures
will hbe free( fromn ticks indefinitely,
provided that in the future no ticky
e'lttle. hlor,es, ,r tnutllel are' allowed
Ja're's to them without first being
dipped The' best method of destroy
lng the, tfreks i by means of the aMrseoni
mll dip and where dipping rats are any
dvay acce'etsible these should be used,
the animals ahould be dipped twice
within a period of from 3 to 7 days
apart. after which It will be absolutely
tafe to return them to the clean range.
This should Be donee mmediately after
the second dipping. unless the cattle
are obliged to swim a stream, when it
is advisable to defer moving for about
' hours after final dipping.
Planters having but few cattle and
no available dipping vat may use soap
e'mulsion, whichi consists of lb. soap
ceither laundry or soft) dissolved In a
palion of w ater by heating, allow to
cool and add 1 quart of coal oil to each
I:allot of the' preparation. This ti an
e.ffeettal germicide and may be used
for lice or ticks on all farm animals.
It sheuild be applied thoroughly, usllng
a cloth.
The above is suggested as a cheap.
easny and effectual method of ridding
pastures of ticks. without the noeee
slty of a season's dipping. Where a
considerable portion of a pariah It over.
flowed, inluence should be brought to
btrar upon the Pollee Jury that they
idopt regulations protectlng the tesr
ritory. It frequently happens that the
overflow covers territory that Is, under
ordinary conditions the hardest to
tlean by dipping methods, as It is often
composed of many acree of open range
attic are more or less ild as a oan.
Se+otlenrce. and it is with difficloulty that
all cattle can be collected every dip.
ping day, which procedure II of course
necessary under ordinary conditions to
destroy all ticks in a pasture.
The overflow occurring at such an
".arly date there would be but sllght
ierk development and it should prove
e-.celpt'tinally easy with that codplera
tion of all the planters in these over
finl sections to elean and keep clean
ther:r tasturce
Any further information furnished
rpon application
L. N. JAROO, Veterinary Inap.,
i. . . Dept. of Agrlculture.
GET PURES-SRED SETTING OP
00EGGS TO START WITH.
"The best and quickest way to get a
tart In the rainIng of puret-bred poultry
;a to secur., a eeltting of pure-bred
ugs," says A. F. Rolf. of the Live
tock Ixtension etr-vlce, l. B. U. It"By
'Ira metihod one can have a pure-bred
'lock fromt the starlt, whereaa, If only a
ere .brvd male Is added to the flock
her'e will amlt':etv be mongretrl stock."
The farmer who drives hls horses
mintll they are foaminll with sweat and
then stands them In the cold winds
has ertlainly lost the milk of human
kindness
i- nmlulal mim I-lll- mi l
