'Tp;
u. . .
It, 1
o
LIBRAR
INDEPENDENT
NONPARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. III. No. 47
CINCINNATI, OHIO, MARCH 11, 1916
One Dollar a Year
:
i
i
rp-
rr
l
t
l; '
I
Herrick Opens His Senatorial
Campaign at Toledo
Farmers, Business Men, Politicians and Labor Leaders Greet Former
Ohio Governor and Diplomat. Urges Organization of
Rural Interests. Gets Three Enthusiastic Receptions
and Spends Busy Day in Toledo.
The campaign of Col. Myron T. Her
rick for United States senator from
Ohio, to succeed Atlee Pomercne, Demo
crat, was opened in Lucas-county Tucsr
day.
The former governor of Ohio, more
recently United States ambassador to I
1 ranee, was tendered an informal re
ception at the Boody House soon after
his arrival from Cleveland at 10::i().
lie was greeted enthusiastically by
scores of personal friends and political
supporters. The reception was in charge
of Frank L. Iiaird, acknowledged to be
the leader of the I lerrick forces in this
county.
At noon, Col. Herrick addressed a
large audience of business men at a
rViinnlprro Cluli lntii'linnn 1
Tuesday afternoon at 2 he made the
principal address of the day at a meet
ing of the Lucas County Improvement
Association in Memorial hall. It was
a farmers' meeting, and was attended
by several hundred of the leading agri
culturists of the county. His subject was
"Rural Credits," of which the speaker
had made close study for years, both in
the United States and abroad.
Col. Herrick's reception by both busi
ness and agricultural interests, was en
thusiastic. He made it clear that the in
terests -iirc- in- no way opposed but 'are
dependent for prosperity upon each oth
er. Co'l. Herrick urged enactment of new
laws to enable farmers to organize more
closely, both for buying and selling pur
poses. Itimil Credits Help Kuropu.
Without a strong rural credit system,
European countries would not now be
able to sustain their armies in the field,
Col. Herrick said in bis Memorial hall
speech.
That the system of financing the farm
ers in the old country has been of vital
assistance in aiding the belligerent na
tions to supply themselves while engaged
in war, was the statement of the former
Ohio governor. He impressed the farm
ers with the necessity of a sound financ
ing system on long-term payments and
suggested the revival of "Landschafts."
Legislation now pending in congress
which deals with rural credit is unsound
in its present form, in the opinion of
Col. Herrick, and should not be pushed
through.
He said, in part:
Cites Many Kxuiiiples.
"Some years ago while traveling in
Germany I noted for the first time the
efficiency of rural financing. Later, in
Switzerland, l-rance and Italy, 1 tound
that the ease with which the farmer
of these countries financed his opera
tions amply explained the high state of
agricultural development in all of them.
In fact, the development of rural
financing in European countries proves
to be one of their elements of pre
paredness, for without the. assistance
given to agriculture by their well ad
vanced systems of rj'ural credit they
would not be able to produce the food
necessary to sustain their armies and
their civilian population under war con
ditions. From that time on I took an
increasing interest in the subject, the
more so as the associated form of or
ganization under which many of these
rural credit systems operate is like that
of the Society for Savings in Cleveland,
of which I am president a mutual sav
ings hank without capital stock. When
I was sent abroad in the early part of
11)12 as ambassador to France, I con
tinued the study of the European sys
tems of rural credit, with growing ad
miration for the simplicity and thorough
ness of their operations and the results
that they accomplish.
Ohio Committee: Appointed.
"Governor Willis has appointed Mr.
O. N. Sams of Hillsboro, Mr. L. J.
t..i.- f Itr,icr!11 find invcnlf. ns
Wc nf tin. Ohio State committee
., -...,1 ,-r,.litc mill cn-oncration. that
was created at the last session of the
general assembly. The duty of this
committee is to examine existing con -
.i:.:., .,.,,1 Inwt rel.itiuir to agriculture,
and to submit suggestions and recom
Ifclr pI'PaBk vBHSH&iii'lC'i HHhHIBIB
HON. MYRON T. HERRICK
Opened His Campaign for United Stales Senator Last Week at Toledo.
Herniation as to what legislation should
be enacted and what other steps taken
to improve rural credit, banking and
financial facilities and to effect the co
operative organization of the farmers in
this State. No money was appropriated
for the committee, and its members are
serving without compensation.
"Our committee hopes to submit its
final report in a few months. Without
assuming to speak for the two other
members I do feel sure that it will
recommend no innovations or experi
mentation which will disrupt or retard
existing institutions or methods of credit
in the State, but that on the contrary its
recommendations, if put into effect, will
be of assistance to all other lines of bus-
ness through their stimulating effect on
agriculture. The object of the rural
credit movement is to vitalize credit now
latent instead of interfering with the
credit or business of existing institutions.
"Wc should distinguish tlie land credit
from the personal or short-time credit,
since they are entirely different from
each other. Each kind of credit has. its
own special requirements. The object
of land credit institutions is to attract
investment funds for use on the farms.
Most of such funds belong to persons
who are not farmers.
Is l'p to Congress.
would determine a question most w mi
, . . . ... . -i1
in inu minim, luiniiiiiiiiiH . " i; j
on a subject which the great agncu iltura
inn nusmess nueresis ii.iiu ...... ..vK
i in. tinnsiirc.
Corrects Innceiinicies.
"A ureal deal of misinformation has
been spread about the 'Landschafts.' So
many inaccurate statements have been
1 made about their powers, methods of
i ilnimr business, and the things actually
- accomplished by them that farmers and
. ,. . davs. know t hat- one important on-
"I here is now pending ,n coi gres , ' . aKricultl,rai (kvL.omK,n is the
with -trong probability of passage a mortgage loans are made for
rural credit measure committing the l l ' ;. , (, ,
Umted States to a -system of State-aided rc ' , f - f 't, ,
'.,,,...-,,,,,,. it-. n.ii.-M,,.,l.'iti.l-rlirii'!cll rural '"." ' '"""; '" I"""' , , ...
h"j;""" ,' ;.:'. t ,, ... , -i, of the soi , but must lie renewed m
credit banks. 1 he passage of this lull .V. ..,' f, ,:., . fir
u sum, ...................... -,- , ' 1S an( which will ultimately increase
in its present form is unsound and ,f , system,
should wait at least to au.ither session, su,n- 1 ' u, ,)e .j
but political expediency is like y to e- Comparatively long term of
termmc the fate of the bill rather than h, sma fixcd annual ,,aylllents on
economic soundness. ', nn.nnivatinn i.l.-iu. this fear of not
bankers alike are beginning to fight shy
of these oldest and best of land credit
institutions. As a matter of fact, a
Landschaft' is a very simple device. It
is not a company, or a corporation, or
an association. It is a district, and its
organization and administration are very
similar to that of the drainage and sewer
districts familiar to nearly everybody,
since they exist in nearly all the States
of the Union.
I (el! lies "liiindseliatt."
"There seems to be in these early
stages of the land credit movement ai
general impression, particularly among
legislators, that banks must be created
for handling these 'Landschaft' securi
ties. It is a natural but erroneous idea.
A Landschaft,' like a drainage district,
creates a security which is the collective
obligation of its members, and there
fore superior to their separate, individ
ual obligations.
"If the United States government in
sists on the establishment of stock banks
for rural financing, they should be of
sufficiently large size as to encourage
public confidence and insure the stability
that would give the bonds issued a stand
ing before the public.
Discusses l.'nriii Mortgages.
"From the experience of my younger
know that-one important on
r u 111 Id
, jf t,Rl ,., ,-, a snul O110i tllc debtor is
; ..i.i:,,.., .,, iiuiiv an lis earnings to it,
isU; J'Slt anyoAhem to
,. ,,,. 1.rl.1111.t imniovements to
"'"" .".'"''.. ::r . ....
being able to repay the loan would not
be present.
Proposes n Kemedy
, .
"Agriculture ought to keep pace with
other industries, and the commodities of
(Continued on page 2)
The Ohio Union Brewery
Using Scab Labor
Brings a Strong Protest From the Building Trades
Council. Pohl and Schueler Also Uses Scab Labor
on the Work in Their New Restaurant. Congressmen
Longworth and Allen, Promised to Vote for the Burnett
Bill. New Contract With Employers' Association
Read at the Regular Meeting of the Council.
It developed at the meeting of the'
minding Irades Council, that Charles
I'roebstle, president of the Ohio Union
Iirewery, has persisted in using scab la-
bor on the work now being doing at the
i brewery, despite all efforts made to in
! duce him to use union labor.
Proebstle is a brother of Jo1-. Proeb-
' stlc, financial secretary of the Interna-
, tional Iirewery Workers, and is a new
comer; he was in the brewery business
in Iowa and helped to make that State
go dry by his actions towards union la-
I bor, who subsequently refused to sup-
! port the wets.
I Notwithstanding the fact that his
I brother has lived off of the union brew
ery workers for years, Chas. Proebstle
has absolutely refused to use union la-1
bor, unless compelled to do so,
The steel tanks to be set up belongs
to the ironworkers, and Business Agent
Davis has been after Proebstle for the
work for the past month, but without
success.
The hauling was done by a non-union
firm, and the work of erecting is being
done by scab riggers.
Upon resolution, President Cullen ap
pointed a committee, composed of Broth
ers Hock, Davis and Fischer, to call on
the officers of the International Union
of Brewery Workej;s andJglU.lhcuiat-L.,
The reyuiar meeting was called to or-;
der with President Cullen in the chair.!
Minutes ot the previous meeting were
read and adopted.
The following communication was
read from the Central Labor Council
and the invitation accepted.
Cincinnati, O.. March 1, lUlti.
Labor's Protest Meeting.
1 have been instructed by the Central
ianur milieu u m.-hu iiiiinu m .hi -
filiated unions to attend the protest
meeting to be held at Music Hall. Thurs -
Labor Council to send notice to all af-
-1.. .. 1 ,.c1i 11. 'it C ii til
rhos. j.
Mii.Vvlii. iiresiilent of the C. L. C." "will
preside.
The speakers will be James O'Connell. '
second vice-president o fthe A. F. of L.,
former president of the Machinists' In-1
temational Union, and at the present I
time a member ot tlie committee on in
dustrial Relations. John P. Frey. editor
of the International Molders' Journal,
u i r,w .r,,,.r..,1 r.:inizpr of the
i. . y".'-j. n-" o -
Machinists' Union.
Wlin Remilntel
i lie sumuLi win in.. nw iv(,uiiii..
the Rights of the Workingmen on Strike
Lfekn,W Wl-DoThey:
The subject will be:
Oet tneir uruers:
' !s .';;. of e,1' "'"T,
see tnat ail uieir meiinicrs ..ut..u .....
LSI? the rXSiemenrand:
also to hear so.ucthing about the ma-1
chinists' strike that is now going on.in
(1 show that they are inter
: ... i i. ,m,mUoinmtr
uus euy. jusi a juu. ....,.....-
up
one night to tlie cause oi moor.
COMIMCXSATIOX ACT WKAKKXKD
Frankfort. Ky.Thc State Senate has
amended the proposed Workmen's Com-
nnncitimi Art. nml the friends ot tins
. . . ..!.
t..:.in.; ,ln,.1nr. that as it now reads
s""" "
the measure has no effect or value. The
blow which crippled the act strikes out
the section which removes the common
law defenses of contributory negligence,
assumption of risk and fellow servant
relation from any damage suit brought
against an employer who had decided
not to accept the provisions of the law.
With this section removed, employers will
not avail themselves of the compensation
law, because there is no inducement to
do so. Advocates of compensation show
that the damage-suit attorney will nour
ish as of vore if the section is not rein-
stated by the House.
At the last session ot tne state i-cgis
lature a compensation law was passed,
only to be declared unconstitutional on i "ve nave none more (nan ) m.
the ground that it limited the amount of ; tion on the face of the earth, because
I IIIC !UUIIU III... .. ...... vv.
j damages in case of death
opposition is but a contii
(ICaill. 1UI' IrCMIU
. .1T
opposition is but a continuance oi tins
struggle conducted by trade unionists.
All presidents and business agents are
requested to attend this meeting and act
as vice-presidents for the night and to
sit on the stage with the speakers.
Trusting that we will have the pleas
ure of your attendance, I remain,
Fraternaly yours,
William Prout, Secretary
Tiios. H. Muo.wi.v, President.
Admission free. Hear the free band
concert. Attend this meeting and hear
the truth about the machinists' strike.
The following communication from
Hon. Nicholas Longworth was read and
received :
Housk of Representatives U. S.
Washington, D. C, March 1, 191G.
Fred Hock, Esq., Secretary, Building
Trades Coouncil, L"J E Twelfth St..
Cincinnati, Ohio :
Dear Sir Your letter of the 2Sth is
received. You may possibly remember
that I voted for the immigration bill in
the last Congress of which I was a mem
ber, both on its passage through the
House and on the subsequent attempt to
pass it over the veto of the president.
Very truly yours,
Nicholas Loxgworth.
The following communication on the
Lanle sul)jm from Hon. Aifred G Anellt
:&tirxaiirTixarAfAT9a--r--
House op Representatives U. S.
Washington, D. C, March 2, 1910.
' -Mr. 1' red Mock, 2!i li. l welitn St.. um-
cinnati, Ohio:
My Dear Sir Your letter of Febru
ary SSth in reference to. the Burnett im
migration bill duly received.
As vou may probably know. I voted
for the bill when it passed the House in
ie last congress, ana Pc iu o
, , . . . . , ......
I '"-; amended in some ' objeuio able way.
1 which I do not. however, anticipate.
or lc l" '""""' ."' ' Vi? ..."
, Willi Kiiui ii't:aiu;, i iich iu luiioin.
I Vt-'r-v trul-v -vours-
Alfred G. Allen.
The contract between the Employers
Association and the Building Trade
Council was read, and upon motion of
Brother O'Connor, that the same be read
at two more eo.isecume mee uugs a .u
a cop sent th " a J'e"- nal
: action was taken, was ponded and car-
I ..!.,. 1
The report of Business Agent Hock
. . .
was read and received.
All ( trades rtednie,,
i ,. , t. r..:i ...c railed
"h fn h the resaurant of Pohl
, - -,-- ..,, , .,, iv..i.mnn Ho-
- Y lJWIlll.H.l IWWMtV ! "- - -- -
eCon ,t Fifth street employed scab
labor in mak mg at ort icir
,.lace and a , 1 utelj ref W to talk U
the union nusuus ayems.
n,,;ri
-" " -
wiiat tin: i-xioxs iiavi: doxk.
Hannibal, Mo. In an address at the
dedicatory ceremonies of the new trade
union headquarters in this city, Presi
dent Wood ot the Mate federation oi
Lahor, aul :
! "Organized, labor
has cleaned out
thousands ot sweat shops, made sani
tarv conditions for the workers to live
and work in. They have lessened the
fatality and bettered the condition ot
the tubercular, so prevalent among
workers of this and other nations. Their
safety appliances have saved the lives
of thousands of men. The factory in
spection law in almost every State of
the union, which is .doing so much to
ward bettering conditions in the fac
tories and shops of the States. All these
things have bettered conditions of the
entire citizenship which comes under its
influence. Bettered it financially, phy
sically and intellectually. Where they
used 'to work from 10, 12, 14 and 1
hours a day, they now work eight and
nine and that has made it possible for
them to seek recreation, given them time
, to develop their minds after work hours
WC IIIIVU muijm:u nim m anik.wt. "
I ..... ?fl. ... ?t 1....- ,xtJ-l4 JWl
we nave seen u as u iiat mm mm....
us."
