DAILY EVENING EDITION I rt s ftttp
DAILY EVENING EDITION
Til ADVERTISERS
WEATHER
Tonight ana Sunday r.ilr
fvndlctn Tom'raltires yixii-nUr.
Maximum T4, minimum tz. rain
full 0; wlnil wear, light, weather clear,
The Kant Ori'gonlan ban the i mhi ald
circuit t tun of uhj paper tu OrtagOO- paat ot
'ortlati.l and oftr lwlt! th Mri-iilatlon Id
reodlotoo uf any utht-r ufwapaper.
COUNTY OFFICIAL PAPER
VOL. 28
DAILY EAST OREGONIAN, PENDLETON, OREGON, SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 1916.
NO. 87M
COUNTY OFFICIAL PAPER lVJPty
How Pendleton Observed Starting of Work on Blewett Harvester Factory
J " " "-' ". " a
. alaWB'B
' ' ' " ' '" 5
Baaaaaaail tlata iBiiLflLiVBVLwlBii aaaaaaaW I n Xjim LbK -LaaalBfi aH bbibbV j AwTavla
MBraaaaaaWwjaaaaaaal mt' taaaaaTaataaaW MBW aaaaaTtaaal IF I fl M laaaaM taaaaT iiaaaal aaaaw iaal-iaay " tm
Photo by w
The ftbovt pli tun- by
nun Wfti tak. n durlrt
brjkinf cormnons for
UarvMtvr Oompftny'i ji
Afternoon in the ptctu
man, former orwldeni
Bowman r ndtat
Que Dash
to Be Made
hito Mexico
S. l!ov. met'la
ground on the
Blewett ii c.
Thursday Lansda
t r
-rer
H.
E.
Blewett, VC
McCook, secre-
eting was held by the nm' mm-i president.
iv and directors were chosen us ; tary.
: A R. Blewett, h c. Blew On the Round-up grandstand, shown
L s Btntley, E C. McCook and j in the background f the picture ar-i
ft, Kale.v. The officers of the com- i pear the dates for the great ahOW to!
iv will be A it. Hiewett. president I b '-.eld here thla fall.
honor to Inform
the constitutionals
chief
that
"reafter. The
j plain English
ust lie written In
Spanish and sent
3
i n is
iw
W Ml
n
AMERICANS REPORTED ABOARD FRENCH MAY BE
MII(. ION Mali Ii 1 I -
I.i-.m !m -aid ihM tile nrr-
gtan sieamcr Mlin-. iorMilnNt
near Havre ( i-grried seven Inter
1 1 tut k and wa sunk without warn
ing, Three of the or wi-n
lirownOd, la- tnicr'niii wnc
saved. iinniiiliiitcl upon - - - i i
nf dtapait-he, the iate uneiit
mroi annMiiKrd tin erica mwM
iiiMd io strict eoconnl the nation
whose KUbmBiiue made the at
luck, pnovldod the miriiljii r-ie'ri
xiii confirmed ThU ras- may
Im- the nit n'l'lniu oon
fronted during the itubtnMinr dl-
)MIC
if the attitude of the ndmintatra'
tion has nnt ( h.uued. America muat
in-isi en the Immedlatr disavowal of
the torpedoing of the siiius. a repara
tion and punishment of the offending
submarine eommuinler if this is de
manded It Is behaved ll will he grant
ed without hesitation and without all
erehange of notes. Kven though the
submarine made sure of the passen
gers' safely, America would not be
satisfied.
The tflllus wbji en route from New
fork t" Havre with a cargo of wheat
The Norwegian eonsulate said this
iftemeon that four Americans were
among the crew of 17 aboard the Stilus.
FORCED BACK ON
COLUMBUS, Kareb 11 "The Am
erican invasion of Mexico will make
Villa a national hero." Captain Far-
ing Thursday s raid, declared today iearned with regret the lamentable I censorship
"Villa probably w ill retire before I Incident at Columbus on account ot
the Americans for a time but in the the assault suffered from bandits led'
by Villa. Although mere have been
a number of forces In Chihuahua to
reestablish order and afford protec
tion to nationals and foreigners, ever
since Villa appeared in the mountains,
the first chief ordered the tlmelv
departure of 2500 men with Instruc-
'amiliar territory against desperate' Hons to actively pursue the bandits
ind treacherous foe. there ig no doubt , who had Just crossed the line into 'EASl UK PItOVIORS FOR MOX
Amerlran? probably would suffer. American territory, which thev un-' 1,74 iw rVTO THK schism
j Interior he will be strengthened a
! hundred fold. All Mexicans will re
iSent the invasion."
To minimize AnierU-an losses. Gen-
eral Ftinston has been directed to
I strike hard and qmevty. Facing a
campaign of guerilla warfare in un-
Chamberlain Bill
Endorsed by the
County Directors
r j . IS---' ""
heavi, casualties. By an overwhelm-! douhtedly dhl compefted by the
ins ano suuuen envelopment or anicious pursuit of our fors.
FIND
IUE MEUSE LI
Villa's Plan to Massacre
Mormons Foiled; U.S. Troops
Will be Ready to Move on SMm Tlmst 0 ,he Ge,mas
Bandits Monday, Reported Zteme
III:.
n the Mexican Northwestern
thej had positive Information
I Villa planned to intercept the Mor-
I mon at Ousraan umi massacre ail
I They left Ascension ut dn break for
jOuiman with 104 followers.
A siriet oensorshlp is being main
I tallied here, it was reliablv reported
the Wyomlni gnrtisons have been or
dered to the border. No movements
of American troops are apparent here.
FUnston is remaining at San Antonio,
and Pershing probabl) win have ac
tive charge of the invasion. Troops
are not likely to enter Mexico before
I Monday, The soldiers ure highli
Villa's plan pleased at the prospect of real action,
in Mormons j Carranaistas are preparing to aid the
been f .11 d I American forces.
.. .. . The death of another wounded sol
dier at Fort Rllss made the total Am
B lerican dead In the Columbus raid In.
, Vllllstaa raided a ranch at MalpalS,
New Mexico last night. Troops were
SAN FRANCISCO, Mar 11 Every
soldier :n the Western department of
the army are under orders to be rend)
for field service In Mexico. The In.
itructions came from Washington,
DOUdLAS, March 1 1 - The I'ariini
zislas cooperating with the Americans
will wear a red bund around their
arms to distinguish them from the
Villlstas. according to orders General
CalleS issued todnv.
Wheat Prices Drop
in Chicago Today
CHICAGO, March 11. (Special.)
May, opening price. $111 it; cdoalng
price. $1.09 3-8: July, opening. $1 OV
7 -I, . losing. $1.08 1-2.
PorUsind.
PORTLAND, ore., March 11
(Special I Merehants' Exchange
prlees today, club. bid. SO. asked, 96:
bluestem, US bid. It.tl usked
fivesspooL
UtVIhHlOOLi March 10, Wheat
Spot No 1 Manitoba, 14s ltd; No. t
hard winter, gulf. 12s ltd; No. 2 red
western winter" Us.
In American terms the Uverpool
top price for Spot No. 1 Manitoba Is
$.' 11 per bushel.
Special Room is
Arranged for Care
of the Children
NEWS SUMMARY
General.
Mennior Is sunk without warning
Is report. Unertisnua ald t have hr'n
ii ha Mini.
Iml
HegtOOt directors endorse Chamber
lain . ft C. Itlll.
ysrmY depatjr wanlw clianrcd
with killing dm-.
That ti" mother In the city ma'
have an excuse to remain aw-uy from
the "Better Babies" mass meeting
next Monday afternoon because of
her children, the ladles In charge
having arranged for u special room
for the care of children during the
meetlne and will have rnmnetent It -1
dies In charge of the room The only
thing asked of the mothers Is thai
they bring one toy with them
The meeting is to be held in the
Moose Hall, beginning at :! o'clock
and everv parent Is asked to attend.
Mrs. George W. McMath of Portland,
president of the Oregon Congress 0j
Mothers, will be the principal speak
er. DC, Guy L Hoyden will speak on
the proper care of children and Miss
Alice Htitler, head of the domestic
science department, will discuss und
Illustrate, the proper playthings for
Children M USClnl numbers will be
furnished by Misses Kdna Zlmmei
man and Edna Coutts.
A social hour and refreshments
will follow the general meeting. Lit
erature upon the subject of "Better
Babies" will be distributed
The mass meeting has bean arrang
ed by the club ladles of the city with
the Civic Club taking the Initiative
The committee on arrangement from
the Civic club Is headed by Mrs Roy
T. Bishop. Mrs. F B Aldrlch and
Mrs. c S. Jerafd, Mrs. George H.
Clark and Mrs. Chartes Bond. From
the Thursda) Afternoon Club Mrs
Wilson I) McNary. Mrs. W. c Mc
Kinney ami Mrs, Roy T. Bishop were
appointed
in addition Mrs. John k Montgom
ery, vice president of the Oregon con
gress of Mothers. Rev. W. IV McNary.
chairman of the advisory board of
the Pendleton Parent-Teachers'
Council. Mrs. C. C. Whlteman. Mrs
E. I.. Smith and Mrs R H. Wilcoy.
presidents respectively of the parent
teachers' association of the Lincoln,
Hawthorne and Washington schools
have given vulunble service In pre
paring for the meeting
BRITISH SEIZE
LONDON, March 11 A sudden
German thrust at the Corbeaux Woods
imperilled the French on a five mile
front west of the Meuse, dispatches
said. The Germans are reported to
be wasting lives recxlessly in an at
tempt to advance to the Forges-Cum-ieres
road. Success would force Gen
eral Joffre to evacuate the trenches
on Goose HIM and at Bethincoutt.
Paris admitted a German gain, but
declared counter attacks recaptured
the positions. Reports are contradic
tory regarding the results of the in
tense fighting at Vaux last night. The
French admitted the Germans occu
pied a few houses In the village nt
Vaux
I
Zouaves and sengetese fought des
perately in the streets of Vaux Thev j
rushed the Germans from the town at'
the point of bayonets.
Pails reported "These troops drove
their bayonets home with an overarm!
plunging stroke entirely unlike th"
method of the llritlsh or French In
fantrymen The Germans suffered
heavily from artillery and machine
guns. Yet. when whole companies of
Teutons were being swept into eter-,
nlty, the kaiser's ureas bureau an
nounced they h id captured the fort
ress Pe Vaux
"After a bombardment the Ger-j
mans charged between Troyon and i
Barryaobac. The! were repulsed I
Successftilh counter-attacking', the l
French drove the Germans from!
communication trenches southeast of
Bethlncourt Fast of the Meuse. th!
Germans made desperate efforts to1
capture De VaUl and the village ot
Vaux They seized a few houses of
the church but elsewhere were re
pulsed. Cannonading in the Woevrs
district continued
the bandits, however, the army hopes
to prevent extensive fighting. If Vil
la is not crushed qurckly and decis
ively, the administration believes mil
itary operations on a larger scale will
be necessary,
WASHINGTON, March 11 The
senate foreign committee today unani
mously approved the president's ac
tion In regard to Mexico after Stone
submitted the official news
Carranza's foreign minister tele
graphed Washington without definite.
Iv approving the expedition to pursue
Villa. In turn he asked permission
to send Mexican troops to American
! territory in case of a repetition of
the raids.
The note refers to the similarity of t. Wi,h onlv on dissenting vote, the
the Geronimos Indian raids from the
I'matllla county directors.
In their
30 years
session yesterday afternoon went on
record as endorsing the Chamberlain
"Recalling these incidents and the!bi" now hfore congress which pro-
imo.t raenit. rr K,v, ..io. i ioes mat rortv ner cent of iho mvn,-
united States into Sonora
ago.
count of the agreement of troops to;derived from th aaie of O. C.
cross the border in pursuit of thejrant landa be Put in,n 'he state Irre.
bandits, the first chief addresses the,duciMe 80,1001 fund.
government of the United States re- The motin to end-orse the hill was
questing permission for Mexican for-i d' Dv Erank Rack, a well known
ces to cross into American territory i republican "f Riverside, and It was
if the incursion into Cotumhus unfnr-j 0 ni1ed T. Reeves of Stan
tunately should be repeated at any
field. The sentiment m -,.,...r .
ther part of the boundary line " I ravorable to the schoolmen that
Secretary of War Baker said the'wnen ,ne resolution was voted upon
General Funst
rders with con'
te will make his
has
expedition would be best described as
a defensive expedition Funston can
draw "n the forces of his department
at will The war department, will
strengthen the border parol. A
against
there
It.
The I'matilla county directors thus
take a decided stand for a measure
that is calculated to give to th.
squadron of eight aeroplanes at San shools of the state a proper share of
will dash across the boundar?
everal different places. Funston':
enients are being guarded secret
mgress obliterated all partisan
and promised to keep hands oft
Republican Club
is Organized at
Spirited Meeting
.lOHX McCOl'RT or POIlTLXD
ni l O ERS UiBRESS or
THE EVEXIXG.
be called upon Immedi
OLUMBL'8, March ll
prisoners released b
the mone to be derlver from the sal-.
or the big tracts of timber and other
land, known as the o ft c. grant
: lands.
mx Meal-1
the 13th i
esterday were found dead to- Turks iv lictreatliu
1 east of town Their hod- PETRncRAD. March 11 Trebi
rl. Idled with rifle bullets nd will be surrendered with little
fed the prisoners were or- s stance. Tlflis dispatches said. Gum
leave the city Some were 'n the harbor district have been .In.
the
rn
ged to have been among the VII
i raiders. Civil and n
rities are investigatiiij
American ranches south
Junction. Arizona, were raided, live
stock killed and property damaged
it was reported today. This was sup
poaedly the work of drunken Carran
zista soldiers. El Paso police are ar
resting former Vllllstaa, Genera
Banda has been Jailed, charged wi;h
vagrancy. A dozen of lesser rank
have been eaugh-. One woundec
VHUeta raider died last night at Co
lumbus, reducing the prisoners P
six.
mantled and all valuables removed.
The russlans are within a day's march.
The fleet :s harrassing the retreuling
ALLEGED LIQUOR THIEVES
RUN DOWN AND ARRESTED
At a verv enthusiastic meeting in "a,r "r"' "" wounueu : . " airswr won minks he can
the curt room at the court house l ist vn! ' ""- dtd ' nht at Co- 'nvade the cellar of H,,ier I. Watts,
night the Young Meal and Y.mr.g lunrbue, reducing the prisoners to !'r of Athena and caadidata f.,r
Women's Republican club was per- ?i district attorney, and get awai with
manently organised and John McCourt I - I" "h "if referring t his nrtvau
president of the Oregon Republican' WASHINGTON. March 1 1. Repre-' tor,s' has I ne more guess Moling
Club, delivered a very timely address sentative Hay, after a conference with Sald H"n,fr I this week demons rat
on the subject of the part the Indi- I-snsing. declared the belief that Am- d thit hl" 'here with a truly H"-
VldUa voters should take in politics, erienn troops are now well across the m'rlc vengeance when sach an
He urged It as the duty of everv clt- ''order In pursuit of Villa The min- Perpetrated
izen and voter to give all the time pos- ister- nf Argentine. Braxil. Colombia' Recently someone stole four ,
sible to the study of politics and po- nd Peru conferred with Lansing this "f P"rfectl good prohlbitian Iquor
iltical questions for the voters were afternoon. j from Watts' cellar, three ,f wblekey
primartlS responsible for the conduct Crrrnnza's proposal to allow Mexl- and ,HW wine The tther an Ho
of the entire government He also can troops to enter American sell in M once swore to trail the Ihlef
touched upon the various important pursuit of bandits probably will
phases of national politics now in the granted. It became known today the
limelight. His address was received administration favors the plan Ar-
with Riany marks of appreciation and my aviators will probably have their
there Was considerable applause dur Itfat real tryout In this campaign. t
Ing the course of his remarks was reported that aeroplanes fr n
The meeting was called to order by San Antonio ,md San Piego are ore
to his den. Getting his firs- .
the number of Jags emanating from
a certain quarter, he proceeded
find a to..) that he
stool, in the p,-r-
den he found one
with kale and verv
AMERICAN SHIP
WASHINGTON. March 11. -Seizure
of the Anier can steamer Stredna. for
merlv the Mexican merchantman Ma
zutlun by u British cruiser was con
firmed today, It was taken Into port
at the Falkland Islands. It carried a
cargo of nitrate. No reason for the
seizure was assigned It Is presumed
the British wanted the cargo.
BERLIN March 11 Making an
j unexpected attack near Rhelms. the
! Germans penetrated the French lines
for two-thirds .: , mile, on a 140. i
yard front, headquarters announced.
In the fighting iround Rhelms the
Germans claimed the captured 73 7
men 12 machine guns and 13 mine
throwers The French were cleared
from Corbeaux and the Cumleres
woods. The French attack on the
village of Belanze was repulsed
It was semi-officlnlly claimed the
French losses to March totalled I,
500. .000.
Or M S. Kern, temporal? chairmin i pare
and the constitution and by -laws
prepared by the committee were r
to leave immediately for ,he hack with
s front These will he used for scout-
I Ing purposes and probably will prove.
; valuable In locating the bandits' rem
- desvous If guerilla fighting predoml-
lid "take Into
of Fred Cat
Upptted Kr.. I
a Fre.i name
a bottle Homes n own
He had Purchased it froiii
Ed McKitcheny, an employe of Uv.
er stable McKHchrnv was Brotnei-
w hlskev
J he
and adopted without anv diss
voice. The officers elected Wi
loiiows rrestdent, It. i Gray; vice nates,
president Mrs G. 1 Ii DoW; serre-l
tary. Bert Jerard: assistant Secretary, I SAN FRANCISCO March 11 I n
Mrs William Courier treasurer, Qeo. route to the Mexican border, the First
C Baer Members of the executive cav.ilrv stationed at Monterey, start
committee Ben Burroughs, chair- ed south on a special train Anion
man: C I- A Lonergan; Dr M s. lance detachments and a commls-aiy
Kern. Pave ( Kelson, nr. I I . Tern- ouun were taken along. nr ITl'- i I p
pie and Clarence tRSnop. The due,. PORTLAND "re V.rch 11
were fixed at $1 per year same charge NF.W YORK. March 11 Cable price of sugar Jumped II Sgplg g
applying to both men and women. .companies announced today that all drrd wholesale 'oda
ly haled before
soon wrung a confess
u result of the eonfe
F.d Po.vf.ll was also a
are being held In j. I
also, to having stole,
fore from Watt"
sugar ITb-v
PORTLAND "re
tayof who vrr.
" from klSS
ion "iu-ml
rested und both
i't,e enf eased,
. ' a-e on'e Im-
fka
