"hen Is a church not a church? When It uses religion asa disguise and as a means of grasplnftpolltlcaland financial power
-JThere Is tonic in the things that men do not love to hear; and there is
damnation in the things that wicked men love to hear. Free speech is to a
great people what winds are to the ocean and malaria regions, which waft
away the elements of disease, and bring new elements of health; and where
free speech is stopped miasma is bred, and death comes fast. Henry Ward
Bccchcr. & !fi g g 3 'J
This It Number 255
IMAGE
March If, ltl
W ir-- r M ??;. TV XT'
1HE MS
THE PARAMOUNT ISSUE
rat's bcesuit War Democratic Principles Marts Her as a Mea
aca tt totricai Freed WDTrta fotititiots Mast be Kept Fret
PoCtical Rooumsn ta ba Forced Into Opei by Campat'ci
of htkidtj and Patriotic list tf the Ballot
M.IX FLOWU. fwHiiK Trm tmm Dafeaaa Laacwa.
HIS week we wish to impress on every patriot the importance
of forcing Rome to meet tbo issue.
Always when an attempt is made to show bow Borne is
warring againt our democratic principle and the bulwark
of free institutions the wily Jesuit seeks to evade the issue
or promptly raiacs the cry of religious prejudice, birotnr.
intolerance and persecution. ThU subterfure baa been over-
wonea, u mu.t ne stopped.
It ia our duty from today onward to ore 1ht real issue to the front
and compel Rome to mett it.
War On No Man Loyal to Free Institutions
We war on no nun and ou no organization to long at that man or that
organization loyally accept and defends the free democracy of the
author of the Ileclaration of Independence and the Revolutionary father.
On the other band when anv man or organization with tbo Juda Lis
tn Dcmocrai7'a lip betray her by working for the opposing theories
the time honored theories of the papal sovereignty on the Tiber, then
imperiled freedom summons every man worthy of this great Republic to
forget self and self interest and enlist in the mighty struggle for the
preservation 01 live democracy in it glory and its integrity.
It is therefore, all important that the real issue be clearly under
stood, steadfastly maiutaiucd and that every attempt on the part of
Rome to sidetrack it be promptly resisted until the American people see
precisely me sunvcrsive character or a campaign being waged by the
uicikivnj iu ui inu-n-M 01 me nH'aii imauiue tncorics wnien the
last three popes of Rome have set forth in their er cathedra utterances
condemning fundamental democracy and the bulwarks of free institutions.
We are engaged in the noblest bsttle that has been waged in the
liigh cause of liberty, progrei aud human happiness since the advent
of popular government. Thia is a bold claim that may well challenge onr
serious attention. Let us consider the fact:
The Declaration of Independence wa the people's great Magna
Charta. It thrilled and electrified the weanr heart of earth's oppressed
millions, whilo striking terror to the upholders of class rule and every
other form of despotism. It was the clarion call of democracy that
Mshered in the new Day of Mau.
It declared for the sovereignty of the people in the place of the
autocratic rule of viee-caten and oppressive thrones, aristocracies, aud
hierarchies. It boldly demanded in the name of humanity and advanc
ing civilization a new ideal of government in which no king or pope
claiming to rule by divine right or to represent Almighty Cod on earth,
but the people should be recognized as the responsible government.
Distinguishing Glories off the New Order
The great declaration was followed bv our Constitution and the
blossoming of the democratic theory of government into a realized fart.
Now what besides the SOVEREIGNTY OF THE PEOPLE were
the distinguishing glories of the new order?
1. Freedom of worship for all, or religiou emancipation.
2. Free.lom of rpen b, pre, and nimbly for tbo bulwarking an.l prevrva
mm 01 (innnnuT,
The alwolute divorce of rliurrh anj state, that persecution ami intolerance
ehouM eoae to curat mankind.
A )Mem of publie free education, untaintcJ by theologii-al rreels or
oWma, that should foster intellectual hoMiitnlitr. lifouraire racial and
ereelal hat and intolerance, and thus promote the trne brotherhood of man.
In this bold and splendid governmental innovation the Master
Guilders of this Democratic Republic gsve to the new nation a priceless
heritage which not only made it the lode star for the oppressed of every
land but the mightiest moral governmental force of .modern times, and
ine greatest Republic knotrn to ftifory.
Not ouly was this new theory of iroverniucnt in onoo.ition to tlit
of the monarchies and aristocracies of the old world, but it was in direct
ana positive opposition to the lut.nc attitude, the theory and the prac
tice of the Roman Catholic hicran hy which, throughout her lonir. dark
and bloody Jiistory. bus resolutely i-ombatted EVERY ONE of these irreat
una lunuumemai iiieones 01 our government.
But today in America and utriclli for American consumption it is
being urged .that Roin whose proud boast has been that she never
changes has changed and is now reconciled to our democratic theory.
This assertion is so imjwrtant that it is necessary to inquire who makes
the claim that the papacy, or supreme and binding authority of the
Roman church, no longer condemns popular sovereignty, the divorce of
cnurcn ana siate, ireeuom oi thought and speech aint our public school
tysicni.
Papal Condemnation off Democracy
The nope, in the absence of the church councils, are THE 0X7Y
PERSONS who can speak for the Roman Catholic church, or whose
word are "infallible, irreformable" and binding upon all loyal Roman
Catholics; hence if these claims have any vclght tckatrver, they must
have behind them the positive declarations of the popes; but one searches
in vain throughout the "jUabus of Pius IX and the encyclicals of Leo
XIII and Pius X, for any warrant for these claims which American
political Romanists are so actively disseminating claims which we are
reluctantly forced to believe are being deliberately circulated for the
purpose of deceiving our people, because, as a matter of fact, they are in
dirrcf opposition to the present day teachings of the church of Rome as
given by her last three popes.
An examination of the ex cathedra and therefore, to loyal Catholics,
infallible utterance of Piu IX, Leo XIII and Piu X ahow that these
three great pope specifically upheld the traditional theory of the Roman
Catholic chvrck and condemned as contrary to its teachings each of the
er aaiu auunguismng g tones of our aemocracy, even POPULAR
SOVEREIGNTY, the bed-rock of our democratic government IS CON
DEMNED by Leo XIII and Piu X, the last two, eo-called infallible,
head of the Roman church.
Their utterance on thi point' are so vital and fundamental that a
word on thi aubject and a few lines from papal utterances will help u
to understand how bridgeles is the chasm between the papacy and
democracy. Leo XIII, in one f his encyclicals, says, "We hold upon the
earth the place of God Almighty." Hence, when a pope denounces
democracy or popular sovereignty on the ground that the right of gov
ern in g comes from God, "as its natural and necessary principle," he
either uphold his own authority as supreme over that of the people or
he uphold the divine right of king, and with this fact in mind, we invite
the readers attention to the following condemnation of democracy or
popular sovereignty by the last two pope as found in the encyclical letter
of Pope Pius X written to the Archbishop and Bishop of France con
demning le Sillon and dated August 25, 1910:
Onr prulw or Uujrt Uat Cfcristiaa dmoorrac? ongkt to Buuntaia
DIVERSITY OF CLASSES, vkick, is surr TOTING CHAKACTEBISTIC
3.
4.
PrWt l uraiaa Waa ritir a book that
ia authority! ly tfc Boaith church. Thi
Is th sort of tka Jtu.ta mi.
ta r pul-lx ckifi if Un haJ a
ckaaeaw A brif attract (M as'foliowa:
"Parhapa at this somrai, I a'clork In
tha trMing. a rhdj ia jurt ewg to llrlL
Toaterrew at 7 '(lock ia tb raia(, n
aad knock at tk fatra of IIU and ak
what tka child if deinf. Th dils anil
(t sad louk. Tka tW wtU oai I. k
faia and Ht tk rkilif is boram. tio
ia a rk Uur and ak what tfc child ia
doiaf. Yo will get lh aana an fr
it ia btirninf. Co ia a jmx Utr and
aak; th ran anawar torn it ia bum
inf. Go ia a Bullion yrara latrr and ak
tti nam ruriioa; tk aanrer ia juat tl
a ma it i barniai;. 8a if ywt po for.
tpt and forrrcr roa will alwara gt th
aama ananer. "it is burning; in tb flr! I
And I'rit WhaUa of Tkt Tablrt aaki.
"Ara th darn of rradinr gtod Catholic
books tuning awav?" We bo au :
Th AVafact Irith America bluMrr
lofly dolarca that I'rraidrnt Wilaon
will tava to anawer for ha I ever hap
prns in Mi-o lrcanur of his rrropnu
tng Carranra. The ml forr under thia
anti-Wiln papal prutn ia the fact
that Mexico 'a inl.lin(f print olitician
ara now anrwrriiijj fur thrir lrtsla when
their prrtrntmni ere rocopuiuvl and en
dured br the Mnii-an wolr.
An Editor's Congratulation
KaHlaMt, MA. tuau, ITtk. 114.
T Ik. tritara aa4 rnfrMM W la
M fa. UMlaii
Alw M e itS , kartlM( na.
(TmlalaUM la IW M urtarf m
vm4 m thai iaaul-aw K. tm Smb.
rkank. (hat mmmH 4rmr Ik, M.
rk m4 A rtraa Im ma. av Wawi
ta Ua TraM ! ka htanr.
I hao aa rim I ax atwiaratlaa at
Ik m1 iku aa m a tk
tmty ikat mr4 rmmr m. ta ih rmrr
4 wKlrS I M U W.. kv( 4t Ikat
H mm 4m r la M la a p.ru.J
Mtr. mo ti-.t I mI4 nut ba klaaaa ka
hin4 aa adltarUI ""
I afvu -a tKU the atate.
atanla iaaa n la Mrrara vara ar
arawa. iimuul lM aairaa, iH ikat
laawaclfta Huallcaa aaS ruajlllna,
that plUtl traal time a Im am
taalta m4 aaa. atiawaaawnt. ana
tnaltrtnaaaaah I have Waa raaatac Tha
a tana Hm. aa4 aial
tuaaa I awl carlaia Mraaf alai.
atraia a taa aaat af a airaaatl laraaitca
IM. aa4 la aar raaa la lM baa araa
la I rata at taa aaana laat raa bate
eeallabat.
("a oa alia In- nod eora. Taa bao a
euaiaar a aoer aaalia.ra. aa4 Mar 4a.
Iratur. aal ra ara la tha rlikt : yoa
haa li aaraa ta tall lha Ireihi ITwaa
la ana line. u raa hx bar anal. aa4
(!(. an4 Ikraataa. bat tha 4 HI
rnma aKaa aa tha ru.partina Hli
ita IKalr era Is Ike tratk. a yaaj am
II. an4 ahra that 4ar ww . Una ill
bava annr liaaia ba bawl ihaa ao.
r Irair r-rmrm.
K. T. TA;.
r-tltor Tbe Matbn4ial I rtXaXanl.
New York City with its alnaaa. its an
rplo.rd and ita lark ef erbooie has jinl
aaraaard t IIJ.IKKI all ftvhce rerrl
ia t'atkulK asiaaioa fifla. Ita total cift
ia 1913 wa etl ."O.OCHl. laitW rb.l
drra are robbed of proper awnakael ia
rdrr to Bccl the teeiiaB.lt ina.le of tbcir
parent br the Iloaiah prelates, who
tat that the poor are the as oat precr
oo doaoiat A nlchtT tae rrlifioe tbat
roll tha poor and atarret their baee tn
Vtk thai tha pnraikoi.-d nay lite ia
idlrmn and bXucberr.
TV Rmnih Bureaa of Miwnforwiati
ia Mill working en rrtune on eork aad
bull atoriea about outrafea alleffed to W
I'Tipc-irated a'iii a' l nuu aud neoc
lifted prtreti m Meteo. And M tbe
paea bare another ffrietaaro aaiaet the
Aawiated l'reo for failure to eooj-ew-ate.
Thi wkhrd world ran aerer jet rijrht
with l-opcT until nere puLUo aetiMtjr
roinet unlrr Kontirh dietatma and run
trot.
"Vatican rtrejee announe that the
pope ia prrftariBsT to bk-ae wirrloaa Urg
n kj officiallv, tbut reatorinK the an:rnt
. I - l L II i...
, i ihhhii titv i nun u it, imvi luirniinni
' wlih h mnfrr rrrt lanirlll on human
' itr." Home fr' up thi arheme of .ra
inif thinir aSe ran eel her dirte tntyr
in all affair. Hume ditin ia U boa
, the world!
CHICAGO'S INQUISITION USES BOYCOTT
Hotel Induced to Repudiate Contract and Oust Tenants Whose Only Of
fense Consisted of Determined Efforts in Defense of the Public
Schools-Circulars Entitled. "Save the Public Schools" Mailed
from Hotel LaSalle the Basis for Inquisitional Activity
Is the Human Catholic church a
menace to American institutions?
Is the I'miiaii Catholic church try
ing to pretent popular education
and destiny the public schools? Is
the Kotni!i Inquisition dead, or is
it yet actively engaged in violent
opposition to progressive people and
principles?,
The a n.wcr to these closely re
lated and profoundly pertinent oucs
lions may lie found in the self ex
planatory sworn ftntcincnt which
follows:
Feared Roman Catholic Boycott
KOK KIVK YKAl;s the WOMAN'S
Jen Is of Hom'sh lutred is further
explained b. the following D ilu
tions adopted by the Woman's I'arty
of Cook County in inns meeting:
Woman ' Party Boycotted
WHKHKA8: Tha Womia'i Tarty of
Cook County ha, by plunk 17 in its
platform and in other ways, openly, pub
li. It and ateailfaiitly etnoj I'D It the pul
lir arhool and AO A INST the policy of
placing mi th erh'l lioard any "p
Mirter of ANY institution which ()!
I'tlSKS our public a b ol avatetn and ha
Ol'IftSKH the liar of public monoy for
the aupport of private, antariaji or paro
chial achooln; and
W1IKKKAS; In ti- purwiit of tbi
policy, tlie Wuiuan'a I'artv of Ciok t'o.
I'AKTY OK (XX)K ftU'NTY held it from ita hendqnartera in the Hotel Im
public meeting in the lintel Lnisalle, aud' Sulle nwistcd in the diftrilmtion f the
it was ImmiiiM fur uiivtinirii and head
quaitcra in the hotel until June, l'.'ltS,
oo a basis that waa eutmiacUiry to the
organization and to the lintel. Thi book
ing waa ilono by the vice-president, who
ia also maunder of the hotel.
heeently, t'irciilar No. J of "Save the
I'ublic Sehmds'' was issued by the Amer
ican 1'ulilie School federation. A the
cinuliir issueil by -the American I'ublic
rvnooi re.leralioii, rut it'.-, I "WAV r. T11K
Tl ULItr S.'1KXJI.S"; and
WHKHKAS: mdegntiont from Roman
('Mtholie orirtiuiatioiia waitH upon and
intimidated the management of the Hotel
1. Salle and livl the hotel mannment to
la-lieve that the hotel would I HOY
t OTTKI) hr all Komnn t atliolie tmliww
aentinient of that circular coincide with! the Woman 'a I'nrty of Cook County was
Plnnk 17 of our platform, we felt it our! fon-ed nut of it headquarter in the
duty to do our share in ita distribution. ' hotel where it bad been fur several vears;
We atamed quite a number of these cir-1 ami
rulara with our headquarter addrea that I WHKHKAS: The hotel at once notified
those in favor of the public school i the Woiunn' I'arty of Cook County that
niight know where to get more of them. it MI'ST CiKT OCT! Now therefore,
After aeveral thousand of them had gone! be it
out to the public, we received notice from i HKSOI.VKD: That the Woman's
the manaifcmciit of the Hotel LaSalle
that we would have to move. Wc were
notified that if we did not move at a
certain date our rent would lie KIVK
TIMES as much for every additional day.
Thi eamo I ke a thunderbolt from a
clear aky. 1, with another officer of the
Woman a Tarty of Cook Countv, went
to see the vice-president and manager of
Tarty of Cook County in meeting as
sembled hereby calls iion AIJ
KKIKNPS OK TltR TCItLIC SCHOOL
to KKSKNT in what ever lawful way
thcr ran both this ROMAN CATH
OLIC IIOYCOTT and the action of the
Hotel I. Salle in thia matter, and issue
thi resolution a a TROTKST and to
CIVK NOTICB TO T11K WOULD of
tha hotel and asked for the reason for 1 tbe un-American method ued and of the
(Continued oa Psga 2, CoL 3)
J
this sudden order to vacate our head
quarters. We were told that needed
the room. We said that ia not true and
wanted to know the KKAL TRUTH. Wo
were then told that delegations from sev
eral Catholic organization had railed on
him and complained about "Save the
Public Schools ' circular; that letten
had been received from Catholic travel
ing men, one of which was shown to us
with a circular attached, and that these
people and other Catholic delegation
bad virtually threatened to BOYCOTT
tha hotel and withdraw their business.
60 the Woniaa'a Party of Cook County
woulj nave to pet HI T! We suggested
that the hotel remain .NEUTRAL, bnt
they did not accra able or willing to do
Another officer and another member of
the Woman 'a Party of Cook County then
called together upon the" vice-president of
tbe Hotel l-asalle to talk further in re
gard to thia matter. Two attorneys rep
resenting a patriotic organization also
called together to see the vice-president
oa taa same mission. These people
stated that it was finally admitted to
theas that the reason for asking the
Woman 'a Tarty of Cook County to move
waa the FEAR or the ROMAN CATH
OLIC BOYCOTT.
CHAatxrm C. Brodcs.
8TATE OP ILLINOIS,
county or Cook
Before me, a Notary Public for and
in the Connty aforesaid. State of Illa-
appeared Charlotte C. Rhodus, of Chica
go, Illinois, personally knowa to me, and
upon her oath doth state that she ia the
President of the Woman 'a Party of Cook
Connty and that the foregoing atateaient
ta true, and that she subscribed tn the
no this th day of December. 1913. at
Qucago, Illinois.
H. E. Daumax. Aofary Fublix
a E. DACMiK, Aotanai S(at,
Cook Co, Ills.
'The meaning of the Iiotditity dis
played toward these patriotic b-
TKliKOR inspired in busiues men by
these KNKMIKS of our public school.
Endorsed I'NANI MOI'SLY at
meeting of tbe member of the Woman 'a
Party of Cook County held on IWeinbcr
3, 1913, ia Room 309, Masonic Templo.
What the Woman's Party Is
The Woman's I'arty of Cook
County, Illinois, is, as its name in
dicates, an association of sincere
and representative women for the
purpose of securirg suffrage for
women and the b. j-t possible living
and working coiuITlions for all the
jHMiple. Such is its own statement
of principle, and its activities are
consistent with that declaration.
Reference is ma'le in the fore
going resolutions to I'lank 17 of the
Woman's Tarty platform. Since it
was this particular plank which
aroused the wrath of Chicago pa
pists, it is her given in full:
We oppose the use of public money for
the support of printe or ecforian
trhooli; we favor the ase of schoolhouses,
. - a . i ' i :
irrv oi raarc, lor inc tiisruivuon ui puo-
lie questions and fe- amusements. We
are in favor of a ac'ilboard which shall
be romiosed of men wed women chosen
solely on account of their fitness and
who have tbe welfare of the public
schools at heart, and rone of whom are
supporters of an institution which op
poses onr public school system.
Flank 17 is the red rag that
started Rome on the rampage. To
oppose the use of public money for
private or sectarian purposes is an
affront such as Rome cannot pardon
but must punish. To favor school
boards and teachers who believe in
the public school trstera to the ex
clusion of those who do cot favor
popular cduiation iiecci-sanly
amounts to the exclusion of pupn-t
from null poritions. And Rome
want all sin h jobs, both for the
revenue and for the opportunity to
corrupt and cripple public educa
tion.
Briefly Mated. Plank 17 is a
frank nvowul of American princi
ples, and an equally frank declara
tion of ('mimuoii to Roiuit-h raids
n n public school funds. I'ti raged
at tins ojxn, fair, and legitimate
statement of principles, nml at the
.effective di-tnbution or literature
from their headquarter in the
Hotel laSiil!c. Koine's iiKjtiisilois
start out to pu-.li the members of
the Woman Tarty oil the earth by
forcing them fnt of their head
quarters. The Situation In Chicago
Chicago is uuturallv, and actual
ly, the storm center of American
polilii-ri. Centrally located, and
hugely reprex-ntative of all the in
terests, good and bad, Chicago t an
marshal forces for the supjort of
any worthy eaiio or of any u
worthy scheme.
It was here that aroused Ameri
can sentiment nrt came in con
spicuous conflict with the promoters
of lioinani-tii. At the latest city
chi t ion a Roman Cutholio and a
noti-t atliolic were conietiiig can
didates for the ofln of mavor. No
candidate for that office ever had
brighter prospect of election than
the Knight of Columbus who whs
put forward to make the race in
behalf of Rome. Xearlv oil the
Chicago paicrs supimrted him; and
the factional differences, so numer
ous in the party of his competitor,
were practically absent from the
ranks of his support.
All tbe usual indications pointed
to the triumphant election of Sir
Knight of Columbus Robert Sweit
rer. But there was a growing senti
ment in the great city that revealed
itself when the votes were counted.
The non-Catholic candidate was
elected by a majority of l.lO.OilO
the greatest majority ever given a
candidate fo that oflkv. From
that moment preservation of the
public schools became the dominant
political issue throughout the city.
Interest was so stimulated as to
cause extensive public and private
investigations hih conclusively
showed that Romish influence bad
been all powerful in the city, that
it bas been used for the benefit of
Rome's parochial tvhools and to the
detriment of popular education.
And the end is not yet. The
aroused patriots of Chicago are now
organized and present a solid front
to the encroachments of popcrr.
They know what Rome's religious
pretentions amount to as well as
the real purpose of Rome's political
activity. In Chicago the fight for
the preservation of American insti
tutions, is on. That is why Rome
strikes back with the boycott and
l5
(Continued oa Fage 2, CoL 3)
HON. THOMAS E. WATSON
k Conrmiodini firurt tt National IntemtJU tafonnal Out Abest
tha Mas Rorat is Striving tt Destroy-Kis Earfy life, Public life,
Contributiow to literature, Kit Positioi and Porpoje Tbi
Mao Ar.ai.jt Whom Ronn is Now Hurlinf her Hatred
UK persistent hounding of Thomas K. Watson by the United
Mates (internment unco politnal Romanism instigated his
prui-ccutioii is one of the most r-lumcful and humiliating
fiitragts that has di-gr.iccd our Listury during the past tifty
j tars.
Tie man, his high service to the rau- of clean and honest
imIiIk-s, bis rationale devotion to the cause of the people in
their batlie against orguni-d greed ; hi important contribution! to our
liicrature and bis vut-poUn attacks on tlio dangerous and subversive
foreign theory of government which ha already placed the democracy of
JilTcriiou in deadly js-nl, makco him at omr one of the most interest
ing tigure in public life and the very last man a free g'iTUtncut should
Mtk to strike down.
The very fait that be is being relcntlev.lv pursued by our govern
ment sinn the American Federation of Catholic SK-jeties undertook to
foM the I Vjwirtiiieiit of Jutnv to coiiviit hi in for ceinsr the obscene
character of the question nhitli the greatest Roman Catholic religious
authority pnsenbvs for priests lo nL women in the ct-nfescional, proves
that the citilixation bli'liting band of Rome and not the geniita of the
frie demiMraiy of JclTeison is the tloniinatmg t-pirit in iutigating
tliis slinmefnl action.
Rotne'e liHtre-1 of freloiii of religious iIim uwioii bus left a trail of
flame, and darkmx tl'ru Jlimit the historic pat whenever she has
biid the oaer to throttle freedom and slay the aosile-i of liUrlv and
progress. The pn-eut srseeutioti of Mr. aion is merely a irit;f
t-rrntielh century iHustnition vf the fait Hint Home's oft repeated 6oaf
that she nrvrr rhnnqes, in true in x,t fur at Iter hatred of freedom of
lrech and vf press is concerned. Here we ce flaming forth the same
deadly intolerance of the daik and bloody davs when Rome was dominant
in many lands and when all h dared to rriticise her wero hounded by
subservient governments and by the, Inquisition. This example of the
implacable hatred of Rome should arouw.to instant action every man and
woman worthy of our free Republic ns the sound of an alarm bell at mid
night. Although for mauy years Mr. Watson has enjoyed a national
reputation as state-man, author and editor be is now the inter of the
newly awakened interest of millions t.f people owing to recent phases in
the rc-Ientlen j r--cution of the brilliant southern statesman aud author
by Rome ami the public authorities at her instigation, hence a
fen picture of the man is timely and will appeal to the millions of
Menace renders.
Tom Watson's Early Life
Thomas K. Watson's ancestors on both sides were Quaker who
settled in fieorgia alsiut l?5ll and at the tune of tl war his father was
a slave holding planter in comfortable 'circumstances. The elder Watson
enlisted in the southern army and was severely wounded three times
during the war. At it close the family was utterly without resource
and in ttuumon with tens of thousands of other Confederate citi
ri'iis encountered years of fierce struggle with poverty and it wa under
such environment that Tom Watson licgnu his heroic effort to secure
a. i education a struggle which strikingly suggests Abraham Lincoln's
boyhood battle for knowledge. No sacrifice was too great to attain this
coveted prize and with the true pioneer American spirit the 1mv fought
to gain the knowledge thai should be within the reach of every child in
a free Republic.
On one occasion he was forced to sell sonic treasured hooks he had
received a a gift from hi father, another time he was compiled to part
with n silver cup. an heirloom, in order to buy garment to clothe bis
nakedness. I'nder such circumstances his education was acquired. Ho
made his way through the high school of Thomson, (Georgia, after which
he entered Mercer 1 Uiver.-iiy but for lack of fuuds wa not able to com
plete his education there. Liter while teaching school he spent his nights
rending law and still later entered the office of Judge W. R. Mdaws
where he studiously pursued his legal studies until he was admitted to
the bar in IS 73.
In Public Life
In 1S82 while a member of the Georgia Legislature he made a fine
record in righting the people's battles ami as a champion of the cause of
temperance. He was selected to close the debate in the legislature for
local option following one of the most bitter state and legislative con
test. The measure was passed and through this law whiskey wa ban
if bed from four-fifths of the counties of Georgia.
In 1891-3 he was in our National House of Representatives where
he made a splendid record becoming one of the most eloquent and con
vincing tribunes of the people in the great popular renaissance of the
early nineties. One of the measures he made csinviully bis own was the
rural free delivery of mails and it was through his masterly advocacy
that the first appropriation for this purjiosc wa voted by congress, lie
has been justly termed the father nf the American rural postal service.
He was one of the most eloquent advocates of the eight hour law and led a
successful fight to compel the railroads to put automatic couplers on
their freight cars. Thia battle for saving the lives of railway workers was
won in the face of a determined and aggressive opposition of the powerful
railroad lobby.
These things are merely typical of Mr. Watson's tireless service in
the interests of the people, of humane legislation and of clean and just
government which marked his congressional activities. And what is trno
of his service in the House of Representatives is equally true of his whole
o!itical career. From first to last he has resolutely championed the
people's cause in the mighty struggle against the political grafters
and the union of the political machines with privilege seeking classes
for the plunder of the people and the control of government.
In IRHtf Mr. Watson was uominated for Vice President by the Peo
ple's party and ran on that ticket with Mr. Bryan as the presidential
nominee and in 1904 he was the presidential candidate on the Peopled
party ticket.
Mr. Watson is a man of intense nature, a passionate loter of the
democracy of Jefferson and the fathers. To him the man who openly or
under cover socks to destrov the f KEr.lH.lM Or SPEECH, PRESS and
ASSEMBLY and onr PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM or who fks to
substitute the reactionary sytem of pajntl rule for the government of the
fathers is a traitor to our Republic and does not merit political prefer'
went even thovgh he come with the blessing of a foreign potentate n
vne hand and a solid and subservient rote in the other. Readers, how
does Mr. Watson's position on this vital issue strike you? Is it not
sound in theory and practice? Are you not, as a lover of our free m
btfritior.s, ready to indorse his position on this question? If so, in this
respetl you are standing side by side with Washington, Franklin, Jef
ferson and Lincoln as well as with all the other great champions of out
free fundamental democracy; but, such a stand taken today, since politico-
cclerilcal Lomantsm has become acttve tn our public life, n ut earn for
(Continued on Page 3, CoL 2,
