MtoaMHMHHaitimWMfc,f -UWj - . s ,
The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST lOSI'IMI. MI.SSOI'RI, .s VI URDU M K' II 11 'tU.
lMUF.U 23
'"N.
Kv
1
,i )
ft'
I
IN THE CII1 :
As Thoy Are Digging Republi
can Graves All Democrats
Are Strong for Them
AND HAVE PROVIDED
MANY SPADES
The Brcndel and Marshall Forces Lock
Horns In a Sanguinary Conflict, the
Equal of Which Has Not Occurred
Since the Day That Big Chief Bill
Jamlcson Donned His War Paint
and Sent All Other Braves Scur
rying to the Tall Uncut.
MS
STUBBORN
I
ft If It takes two dnvs, one night and
, - an 01 me orators, ners and wire pull
ers in the gop organization to unseat
one already unhorsed Republican city
central committeeman, and then still the entire delegation was as fol
falling to agree as to the lime, place 4. lows:
and means of selecting delegates to To sustain the president Ale
a city convention, how long will It ander (Dem ), Hooher (Dem ).
take the adherents of the grand old Borland (Dem ), Dickinson (Dem ),
party of standpatlsm and rawfawm Hamlin (Dem). Llovd (Dem.),
to begin the work of electing a lie Hucker (Dm), Rubey (Dem),
publican major of St Joseph, and how- Russell Dem ), Shackleford (Dem.)
long will it require to bring such a Not to sustain the president
result about? IRoe (Dem ), Dver (Hep), Decker
That Is the question which is sorely Dem). Henslej (Dem), Meeker
troubling the entire patty in St. Jo- (Rep)
seph, and the end Is not jet. Speaker Claik did not vote
When Tied Whitham goes back to The speaker votes onlj in case
his Texas home he has but to take' of a tie or when he particular!)
the flies of the St Joseph papers with desires to do so.
him to prove to his friends down
there that he is "some man" up in
St. Joseph, for all of this wrangle and
cat baiting came about over him, and
ho had the satisfaction of starting a
ruction hero in the hosts of the faith
ful which will send the party to cer
tain defeat when the city election is
pulled off next month, and place a
Demociat in the major's chair at the
city hall. Tiiis much is asuied
The Stubborn Ten
The committee meeting also brought
out the potent fact that the most
stubborn ten men in St Joseph have
at last been located and thej are Tom
i: Dear. Ilarrj Greenfield. L M I.ind
hay. Frank W. Brand and Fred Lauder,
all of whom are innoculated with Mar-
shall vims, and W. H. Kueker. John
D. McNeelj. John Biendel, Bob Sim
mons ami M. IJ. Hickman all of whom
are filled to repletion with Brendel
b0rum-
This mighty ten laboied. worked,
pleaded, cajoled, threatened and fought
with each other all that long night
amUhe ne.t day. the flrt five trjlng
to unseat Whitham, alleged commlttee-
iiuiii nvm me ofiuuu a,.i, .... n.v ea(h niQntn We rL.con,,end that
other battling five strove with pon- such a ,aIuable coectIon of reconU
drous effort to keep Harr Greenfield bp n8UreiL shoulll they be destrojcd.
in the seat which they claimed he had R ou,d tak(J n)onthg tQ rep,ace U)eIn
gained, and the other five as equally ,, , , , , . ,
asserted that he had usurped. tour h"red a"d thlrtj-seven per-
After an all night hair pu,nR ns applied to the employment bu
.... . ., ,,!, reau for work during the month. Of
seance, during the progress of w hleh , , ,
... . . , , . ,, i these, 20 were placed In permanent
manipulator George Toel had brought1 ' '
SJn a bountiful supply of Marsna lions, and earned $120.40; and 127
medicine. Toel was finallj put to hleep'werJ tporary emplojment.
on a coal bo and the end was not jet iearnln 41 J
Then after the sun had arisen a new ' Of the other features and depart
tack was tried. nllnts' he sajs-
Big Medicine and Law "Tlle clothing department This de-
Robert C. Bell was posted off to the partment distributed 1,009 garments
court house, where he secured a writ durlnB the month. Preparation is be
of quo warranto from Judge Allen 'ng made to storo the few remaining
which cited Greenfield to- appear be- winter garments. The spring line of
fere him at 2 p. m. jesterday and show clothing will be available the first part
cause why he should retain the com- ot April.
mltteeshlp. The writ was served on, "The investigating bureau Mrs
Greenfield, but such medicine did not Flora Rich, social Investigator, met
affect him. with an accident four weeks ago. She
Then In desperation the leaders of reports that she will Do unable to
both factions on the outside sent for continue with the board. Miss Sadio
the big medicine chiefs, L. O. Weak- Goldman, who has done volunteer
ley, Charley Morris, Walter Head and work tor tle last year, was asked to
John E. Dolman. They appeared be- tae the place. She Is doing the work
fore the rantlnkerous and unjieldlng cry satisfactorily, and we recommend
committee and after pouring out great that she continue. The social invest!
gobs of wine and oil, finally caused eators and volunteers made 203 home
such a sickness to come over them v'sits.
that they agreed to oust both Green- "The wood yard The wood yard
field and Whitham and accept Dolman force has been reduced from forty
in place, who waB to vote with the men to ten men, because the Rur
Marshall contingent on all points. tllngton railroad company has found
And then they still could not settle H Impossible to furnish sufficient
the vexed question of how, and where. ooA Mr- Card' superintendent of the
and when, to hold the primaries and Burlington, says that he will see that
convention. They logrolled, bumped. '"" car of wood per week is sent to
boosted and tore, but no good could tl,e yard until April 1.
come-out of all the medicine poured, "Tho farms Wo recommend that
and an acrimonious adjournment was $150 be appropriated for the purchase
taken to the next day to put more, of tools, Implements and livestock,
coffin nails in the box of the candl-' "Welfare board burials There were
date for mayor who will finally re-, nine burials during the month. A
celve tho already open grave noralna-' force of men Is already at work clean
don, ling tho graveyard. We recommend
STOOD BY PRESIDENT
Booher, Borland and Alexander
From Thlt Section of the
State Among Them
Wilson won his light Tuesday
night w lien the house of repre-
sentatlves, by a vote of 276 to
172, tabled the McLemore resolu-
tion to warn Americans off armed
ships, and he will now have a
fr e hand to go ahead and treat
w 1th the belligerent nations which
hae been embarrassing this coun-
trj by their actions. The ote
was a decisive token of the con
fldence which congress has In
President Wilson.
It will be interesting to the
people of this state to note where
their representatives stood espe-
daily to those in the northwest
portion of this territory, the
Third, Fourth and Fifth districts
It will he noted that the three
representatives from these dls-
tricts, Alexander, Hooher and
norland, voted right and stood
bj the president as they have
done all along during this period
of stress and peril. The vote of
THE FEBRUARY REPORT
What Was Accomplished by the Wei-
fare Board During a
Hard Month
The report of Secretarj Crossland
of the W'eltare board for the month
of Tebruary has been sent out to the
membeis of the organization, nnd
(leaIs ut consldraole Kngtn wUh IP
nctMUe, of ,Bt organization To
.usst tnt llncmploedi the bo:ini act
ll)s , conJunctlon wlth uAg, UM ot
R tounty comt w cnf,a(1 m mifk
f:irnllns thl, jear (v,entJ tllrer trf
0, pround h.umi, a,rea(lj b( en .,c
qiI1?d for ,nat plup0SPi aml tt0I(v ,
nmN beginning
s,,cretar. crossland's report states
,he ,ota, icef expi.nU,ture8 for Feb
tuarj were $730.81, and that at least
$700 must be available for this month
Speaking of the Registration Bu
reau, he sajs:
Th rIs,rnlInn hllrinll ,a ,,prnnl
lng more accurate and comprehensive
(Continued on Page Eight)
F
RANG1S
ir
WLSON
I
When federal court convened here Monday morning, Hon.1
Francis M. Wilson, United States distnct attorney, was at his'
post of duty, but it was hard for him to get down to business, as
his legions of loyal friends insisted on breaking into his public
affairs in their efforts to congratulate him and pledge him their
support in his race for the Democratic nomination for governor
of Missouri. Every available moment of the day when he could
be reached he met with these demonstrations of appreciation and
loyalty, and it is not to be wondered at that the district attorney
could not avoid being pleased.
The announcement that he had promised his waiting St.
Jo?eph fiiends came on Saturday, being sent out from Platte
City. For months the fiiends of Wilson in this section had urged
him to enter the race, but he simply smiled and said: "Boys, I'll
tell you about the last of February what 1 will do," and he kept
his word. He has now arranged matters so that he is enabled tO(
announce that he will accede to their wishes. If anvone desires to'
know how popular Francis Wilson is in this part of the state, all
that it is necessary for him to do is to come here and ask the'
people. Francis Wilson knows the people, and they know him '
and honor and respect him. In his formal statement issued from'
Platte City Mr. Wilson says: I
"I have concluded to become a candidate for the Democratic
nomination for governor. This decision has been reached as the1
result of the apparent existence
tt
HON. FRANCIS
Democrats generally throughout the state, and particularly in this
section, that 1 become a candidate for the nomination.
"From this feeling, not originating with me, nor furthered
to the extent of a letter or personal solicitation I am inclined to
believe that there exists a popular uesire for me to become a can
didate. Seriously contemplating entrance into this contest, 1
deemed it proper to inquire of the attorney-general of the United
States if my resignation would be accepted in view of the business
of the office of L'nited States attorney.
"To this inquiry I have been advised recently that my resigna
tion is not desired, provided public business does not suffer by
reason of my candidacy for the nomination. This conclusion leads
me to believe that it would be unwelcome for me summarily to
abandon important pending business over which 1 have assumed
personal charge, and so I shall letain my present office until it
becomes advisable to the department of justice to accept my resig
nation. "As it is necessarily impossible to enter the campaign for
some time, I invoke the efforts of those Democrats who may be
lieve that my nomination will continue to ultimate party success.
From time to time I shall state my views on all questions of
moment to the public.
"During the pendency of what promises to be a spirited con
test for the high office of governor by those who are imbued with
the same laudable ambition which animates me, it will be my de
sire to treat them with that consideration which my friendship for
each inspires."
IS HIGHEST FORM
OF "PATRIOTISM"
That Is What John A. Schelhamer
Thinks of Spending Your
Money at Home
The following recently appeared In
a Louisiana newspaper, and John A
Schelhamer, the well known South
Eighth street druggist, very appropri
ately thinks that there are other
states that it will apply to as well:
"The average Louisiana farmer gets
up early at the alarm of a ConneTttcut
clock, buttons his Chicago suspended
to Detroit overalls, puts on n pair of
cowhide shoes made In Ohio, washes
in a Pittsburg tin basin, using Cincin
nati soap, and dties on a cotton towel
made in New Hampshiie; sits down
to a Grand Rapids table, eats hot bis-
FOR
for some time of a desire among
M WILSON
tuits made with Minneapolis Hour.
Kansas City bacon and Indiana grits
fried In Omaha lard, cooked on a St.
I.outs stove, bujh Irish potatoes grown
in Michigan and canned fruit put up
in California, seasoned w 1th Rhode
Island spices claps on his old wool
hat made in Philadelphia, puts New
ork harness on a Missouri mule, fed
Iowa corn, and plows his farm cov
ered by a MassachUbetts raortgagt
with an Indiana plow.
"At night he crawls under a New
Jersey blanket and Is kept awake by
a Louisiana dog, the only home prod
uct on the place, and wonders why
he Keeps poor,
"Moral: Patronize home industries,
bpend jour money where it will give
a market for what jou grow, and thus
make money and Increase the value
of jour farm, 'This is public spirit
and the highest form of patriotism.'"
OMAHA ALSO HAD A DOSE
;
A "Moral Purifier" Tries His Hand a
Assailing That Place
For "Pay"
A short time ago St. Jos. ph had a
P.ald visitor who spoke at a (0111
merce Club lunehi on, and in aggrieved
tones told of the vlre and harlotisin
of tiiis city. He dlsrrlbed its vire con
dltions as second to that of Sodom
and Oomarrah, and insist d that St
Joseph is the wickedest and most
'Jod-forsaken city of any on this ter-
final luuisiuui h pince ironi wiiirn
all righteous should llee as from the
plague and, sorrj be It to aj, the
press reports printed in one of St
Joseph's leading papers say that these
allusions were received "with great
applause from some of his hearers "
The same day this same Journal
printed with great gusto and pergonal
Jollification a long diatribe concerning
that fellow Baldwin's arraignment and
castlgatlon of St. Josph, and in an;
editorial endorsed his remarks but
after that there was a dead silence
possibly the editor had bun "hearing
from home" as it were Posiblj he following few weeks will demonstrate
discovered that his abuse of St Jo tne trutn t 'his statement. Not only
seph, Just because he hatecL-omeone w"i tnu Democrats be busy, but the
else, vvns not the "proper medicine" common enemy, the gopltes and the
for he has quit, and there have been RuHmooseeys will also be heard in the
no further laudations or the Imported nolsemaklns.
paid defanier of St Joseph I Wlt the exception of the big Demo-
The next eitj north-Omaha has cratlc state convention which will con
also had a visitation from one of these vnt' hm! March 21st, the principal
paid hireling defamers-at so much exciteratnt will be the city campaign,
per defame and he does not seem to nlch- on account of late develop
have met with that "cordial" recep- "unts- Promises to b one of the
lion up there that the one did here hardest fought in vears With two of
from that St Joseph editor, for the U"' hest known Democrats of the citv
paid defamer of Omaha, after he had cont,-'stIn; for the nomination for the
made this statement (which was not "'orahv, and each having his
iceeived with applause") as follows, frienis actively at work, there will be
seems to have "lost caste" He said- noliH nd smoke to spare. Then the
"A prominent phvsiclan recently told blg itat(1 convention will also come in
me in confidence that he was treating 'or a fu'l share In the proceedings
moie than 100 voting girls for vene- All Roads Lead Here
teal disease II one doctor Is han- All rnmK nn.i i ,n,. m i , .
dling that manj, what about the whole q,A" roas nJ hj-paths will lead to
t-Itj. " St JoseI'h Tuesday, March 21, when
TI.U .,..r,inn .n,!.. hi ,h n.,.,1 the bls sla, convention will open
, . , . ,.
moral punner, provoKeu me eunor
of The World-Herald to use thee vig
orous and self explanatory words
That statement was submitted to a
' p'lvsician, who is not especially "prom-
iiinit" but has a practice tunning
. ornething over 4,000 a jer anions
1 familios in which there are many
I growing girls He was .so indignant
at the statement that he could hardly
H9!iaili UIl Klllllilf 111 .llllll lif Uf
nouneed it Among other things that
ie said was If anv phjsician made
1 11 h a statement he is an unmitigated
Inr No specialist, devoting himself
'to -mil diseases, including all classes,
i oi Uils alone, could have such a num-
i (Continued on Page Eight)
... i,..nl. .l.i ln4r1in .. f . I. 1.1. lr iln
THE ROAD TO HELL
In 1S2S the school beard of l.ancas
tir Ohio, refused to permit the school-
house to be used for the discussion ot
ihe eiuestion as to whether tailroads
were practical or net, and the matter
uab tecentlj called to mind bj an old
document that reads in part as fol-
lows
"You are welcome to use the school
house to debate all pioper que&tloni
In, but such things as railroads and
telegraphs are impossibilities and
rank infidelity, 'ihere Is nothing in
the word of God about them , If God
has designed that his intelligent
cieatures should travel at the trightful
speed of fifteen miles an hour, by
steam, he would have clearij foretold
through his prophets. It U a device
of Satan to lead immortal souls down
to hell." Railwaj and Locomotive
Unglneerlng
JOHN DIDN'T "TOTE FAIR" WITH
CHARLEY
"You can't hollow down our rain
barrel," sajs Charley Morris to John
Sw anger down at Cape Girardeau last
week when the Republicans were pull
ing off their "love feast." John didn't
tote fair with Chartej Sw anger's
friends introduced the buttons with
Ills picture on it, and verjbodj got
one. Morris got mad and said naughtj
things about his old pal and bosom
friend Sw anger. Rut that cuts no ice
with our good Republican friends It
was a love feast with a vengeance, and
Morris had no business in trespassing
on Swanger's territory. Oranbj Mis
sourlan MIDDELKAMP VISITS ST. JOSEPH
George II. Mlddelkamp of Hawk
Point was in the citj Tuesday andi
Ur0,lMnai1ai In Ihn InlnrAfil nf nlc ran 1
dldacy for the Democratic nomination
for state treasurer. While here Mr
Mlddelkamp visited many of the local
Democrats anu maue manj' menus
He is a real Democrat a man of the
people, and has many qualifications
which are dcar to the Democratic
heart. He is backed by no clique or
faction, and is running solely on his
merit.
NEXT WEEK ONE
OF MUCH
INTEREST
Democrats Will Select Dele
gates to Two Conventions
Lively Proceedings
THEY WILL SELECT FOR
BOTH CITY AND COUNTY
After These Gatherings Have Com
pleted Their Labors, Active Work
or me uuy campaign Will Over
shadow All Other Features Until the
Big Democratic State Convention Is
Pulled Off On March 21st
Anvone who does not believe that
Politics are warming up in St. Joseph,
has another guess coming, and the.
- here and
everj Democrat of promi
nent- in the state will be in St. Jo
seph Advices received by those who
have the matter in charge indicate
that the attendance will be the larg
est at any state convention since the
great mnetlng here fourteen years ago
Already tho hotels are being rushed
witn appiications for rooms, and thev
; .. ... """" ""
come from all over Missouri.
And there will be a field of candi
dates for the nomination for the van
ous state offices, all of whom will
have headquarters here Many candi
dates engaged headquarters as earlj
as last week.
Chairman McCIung of the state com
mittee was here Mondaj, and in com
pany with Member T J. Lysaght of
the state committee went over the
matter of arrangements for the bij.
convention As there are nearly l,4i"
delegates to the assembly, it was de
cided that the Auditorium was the
proper place to hold it, and that com
niodious structure was engaged, there-
by assuring ample seating arrange
mem for all who attend The matter
of arranging a program is now under
wav-, and it will demonstrate to the
visitors that St. Joseph knows how to
care for the stranger within its gates
County Convention Tuesday
The county central committee met
at the Monroe club rooms Mondaj
afternoon and soon had all arrange
ments completed for the county con
vention, which was called for next
Tuesday at the court house, and at
which time thirty-five delegates to the
state convention will be selected. At
the meeting Monday the county com
mittee selected the following as the
delegates to the Tuesdaj convention
First ward J. W Haight, Thomas
J. P. Smith, J. T Stamej-, Charles
Now land, Henry L'hlinger, E M
Swart, Roj Rush
Second ward William Campbell.
R. E. Culver, William Miller, Cleve
Morgan, Louis Molne. N. D. Goff.
Third ward F. P Yenawine, C. H
Jones, T. J. Ljsaght, J. M. Read
William Snail, John Freeman, Joseph
Rice.
Fourth ward Phillip Duddy. J. V
Mjtton, E. H. Spratt. J. G. Parkinson
W. B. Norris, L C. Gabbert. Smith
Penney, A P. Clayton, Wesley Con
liett. Fifth ward John Flaherty. E. J
Byrne, John W. Brefwn, Charles Kel
ler, John Andrews, John II. Curtin,
Frank Stuedler. Pat Martin.
Sixth ward George Kamler, George
, W. Akers, C. L. Kennedy, Arthur
Cralgnin( Kdward Enrl(.hti RoM c
p John Ashhallh. , r. i.eftwirh
Ch,ea A TuU w,ara innx A
Prosser.
Seventh ward Alfred L. Whaley,
Joseph Brown, J. J Connors, Henry
Vogclman, John Egll, Bailey Sparks.
Eighth ward Walter Edson, Louis
(Continued on Page Eight);
(Continued on Page Eight)
rfn
