We want good reliablo
Agents in every city and
town in the country. Write
us for terms.
VOLUME VIII. NUMBER, 2S.
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 191 .
PRICE, 5c.
All Hail Principal Lee and the Splendid Work He is Doing at Lincoln High,
Sty, have too t fnraiihtd or un
furnished room for rent? Adver
tite it in The Sun and let it be
bringing yon ia something.
G. JACKSON
STARS. .
Is Developing Promising Geniuses
More Distinguished Since Cali
fornia Trip.
Dy CHAS. A. STARKS.
J ?J JT.0"?
gathered In the studio of Allen chapel
last Tuesday night, that was all. This
...a.... ...... ... ,
few was chiefly composed of students
of music. A few teachers, a bishop
and Allen', distinguished pastor. Prof.
Jackson in explaining the purpose of
the meeting said that ,lhe program
which was to be rendered was de-
signed to give the prospective public
performers a chance to rid them
selves) of what native shyness or stage
fright they mlglu possess and to round
oft and polish up any lingering crudl-
ties that may be left to hamper heir
demonstrative abilities or natural do-
meanor. Come to think, this studio
Is no small thing. And the active,
studious genius who modestly doml-;
nates and masters the forces that gov
em Is somewhat greater than our
slothful appreciation has given him
PROF R. G. JACKSON.
The musical wizard of the race.
(iredit for. Come to think again, that
great "Conference chorus," tho hun
dred "special music" events at "Old
Allen," "The Seven Last Words of
Christ," the splendid musicals at W.
U and the many other musical af
fairs had their larger inception and
passed under the telling care and in
struction of Prof- Jackson.- In. this Jit
tie studio.
Yes, Jackson and his able assist
ant. Miss Deulah Douglass.
And we hnve not realized that we
had a great exponent of music for
the many, a live worker, a practical
musician until recently. We have
read with enthusiasm of Madam Hack
ley of Chicago in her school settle
ment work in music; of Will Marion
Cook as chorister, composer and di
rector; of Europe as conductor of or
chestra; of Burleigh as noted baritone
and bis high ordered compositions;
of II. W Hayes as premier tenor and
or Prof. John W. Work at Fisk uni
versity with his folk song lore. But
Prof. Jackson had to go to California
and reopen the golden gate with his
golden music and come back through
Utah and Kansas, stopping at Salt
Lake and Topeka, there at each place
disturbing the colossal and dreamy old
organs and stirring the hidden and
dormant music within their confines
ere we noticed him as musically out
of the ordinary. Gosslpers mysterious
ly whisper it about that our organist
awakened things up in the big white
world wherever he played, and dem
onstrated to his white brother that
every note and mechanical device on
their great organs had no terrors for
him, but rather simple, beautiful mu
sic, which he could easily produce
by his knowledge and manipulative
skill
And this Is the man who presided
over the little Btudlo in which the re
cital was given Tuesday night. He
stood a few paces back from tho new
grand piano, watching intently each
performer render his or her part of
the program. A right nice program,
too. At no time could it be said it was
PROF. R.
mediocre In any way. The selections ,aml falr decisions of the referee. Wit
were from the reputed masters in j,er wood?
pianoforte music and - though not I Saturday night of this week W. U.
strictly played as we would call mas-'nleot8 lts od basket ball rival, Gar
terly but certainly with that pleasant rlson square, on the Y. M. C. A. court.
and very hopeful skill such as budding i
and awakening genius will allow and1 TROY, KANSAS.
which must finally reach on into that
mellowy state along with ripening ex
perience. The different numbers ren
dered impressed the writer as repre
senting three different stages of art
the difficult, very difficult and ex
tremely difficult. Yet the public will
be surprised to see the easy stylo and
grace this class of music Is played by
these students. One little girl played
so swift and accurately and with such
fine tone appreciation that she was
applauded generously and encored
with Prof. Jackson in a duetlc "num
ber. Each player executed well, but
.with llttl.e or no sign of nervousness.
There was not but one vocal effort,
and that by some fine looking young
man, who looked like a singer, acted
like one. and proved to be one. He
has a voice that ranges anywhere
from a light resonant baritone to an
easy, finely sustained tenor, with that
rare, subtlo vocaj skill to produce the
"vanishing slide which usually en
rapts the listener. This is great in
so young a singer. As a musical race
it Is conceded to us that we lead in
producing the melodic strain, but on
the other hand we can not Justly claim
MAKING tho same in clear, distinct enuncla
itlon. However, this young singer gave
evidence of superior training in nn
encore ho rendered, "A Perfect Day
His p's arid q's, so to speak, bristle
with Intelligent meaning, as each word
Is emitted it strikes and redounds
upon the attentive ear.
Prof. Jackson Is doing thorough
work "t w. u.. and m his studio on mi.
side what other cities boast so large-
f namely, community uplift thru
' ' .. . ' ' ... ,.
far reaching results of his endeavors.
ln8(rucUott is popular with
., , Tn
those seeking to learn music. His
thoro gruelling and training of chor-
i,aa la Minntinarl Vinvltltr ffin' naara
nQ RUperlor; In the nlcantlme
'Hiawatha" is being attacked with a
vengeance and wo have no doubt but
. n nM, . ,
coursfl of u be llsten, to' Ul.
d,an cnantg and th ,alntlvo 0,
jinnejjaha
MljCH
INTEREST MANIFESTED.
Masons Astir Local Lodges Organize
for Golden Jubilee Celebration.
It was a splendid and representative
gathering of Masons that met at Ma
sonic Temple, 18th aahd Woodland,
last Sunday afternoon to organize for
the purpose of making arrangements
lor the Fiftieth Annual Communica
tion of the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of the state of Missouri and
jurisdiction, which will assemble In
Kansas City August next at which
time it has been decided to celebrate
our golden jubilee. Every lodge in
the city was well represented. The
spirit of the meeting was fine, char
acterized by harmony and enthusiasm.
Brother W. G. Mosely, chairman of
the state centennial committee, called
the meeting to order.
The following officers were unani
mously elected:
W. G. Mosely, chairman of state
committee, was made chairman of the
local committee; T. G. McCampbell,
vice; Prof. A .M. Wilson, secretary;
, Joseph Thompson, assistant secre
tary; Samuel Dlggs, treasurer.
I The following committees were ap
pointed: On Finance Prof. R. T. Coles, chair
man; E. S. Baker, A. R. Russell, H. W.
Miller, Fred Douglass. '
On Plans and Arrangements Prof.
J. E. Herritord, chairman; W. C. Mai-
lory, S. W. Brown, Benjamin Givens,
J. H. Simmons, Clay Brassfield, G. S.
Bradley, W. Johnson, Richard Ful
bright, P. C. Kincaid, George Thomas;
Leonard Johnson.
The committee will hold Its next
meeting March 19.
WESTERN U. REFORMS AND TUM
BLES BAPTISTS' BOYS 23 TO 13.
Qulndaro Heights Quintet Holds Like
a Machine Lead Thruout Bat
tle Howard Is Star.
In one of the most thrilling basket
ball games seen in the Paseo Y. M.
C. A. gymnasium Western university
basket ball team defeated second Bap
tist boys by a score of 23 to 13.
The orange and blue five started off
strong and held the lead thruout but
always by a smal margin, the first half
ending IX to 5 for W. U.
Howard excelled, his passing, shoot
ing and floor work being remarkable.
Yet when it comes to picking individ
ual stars the task would be both hard
and unfair, for tlie whole W. U. quin
tet played as one team, ever sacrific
ing the personal glory when a team
mate was standing in a position to
score.
The occasional flashes of offensive
playing with the short, accurate pass
ing of Coach Hardy's white jackets
were bewildering,, and drew applause
from the spectators when they at
tempted to swing into their full scor
ing strength.
The Baptist passers put up a game,
uphill fight, but were too closely guard
ed to do much damage. Right Guard
Grant of the white Jackets stood out
most prominently, often Intercepting
W. U .passes and broke up the machine-like
movements of tho Kansas
boys.
Who savs both the nlavers and snec-.
tators did not keenly aDoreclato auick
Mrs. Frank Martin was shopping In
St. Joseph this week and on return
ing home was accompanied by her
brother, Mr, James Binghaman, who
spent a few days In the city.... Rev.
C. A. Woods and Mr. Charles Hackloy
were In Highland, Kas., the past week
and the former was assisting tltev,
Thomas in the revival at thq A. M.
E. church. .. .Mrs. Dicey Wilkinson
returned to White Cloud tho past week
after havng been in the city with
her husband, who has been quite in
disposed, . ...Miss Nello E. Schumache
was visiting in White Cloud from Fri
day until Monday this week... Tho en
tertainment at the A. M. E. church
Saturday night for the benefit of the
trustees was well attended and a suc
cess finnnclalyy....The German club
had its second social Saturday night
which consisted of a regular supper,
refreshments of all kinds, fortune tell
ing and a bazar. .. .Everyone seemed
to enjoy themselves eating and find
ing out to whom their future happi
ness was to belong, and, Mrs. Pearl
Sportsman certainly makes an ideal
fortune teller, especially when It
comes to getting the "pennies."
Lincoln High School Extension
MONTHLY SCHOOL AND COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT
MEETING.
ME. J. A. HARZFELD,
President of the City Club of Kansas City, Mo.
Will Speak at f
LINCOLN HIGH SCHOOL AUDITORIUM
Nineteenth and Tracy
' SUNDAY, MARCH 193 O'CLOCK P. M.
SUBJECT "Some Evidences of Race -Progress."
SPECIAL MUSIC by LINCOLN
ENTIRE PUBLIC
A SERVICE MARKING THE CLOSING OF BABY AND
HEALTH WEEK WILL BE HELD AT ALLEN CHAPEL,
SUNDAY MORNING, MARCH 12, UNDER tf HE AUSPICES
OF THE FEDERATION OF WOMEN'S CLUBS OF WHICH
MRS. M. L. CROSTHWAIT IS PRESIDENT.
All mothers with babies are especially invited to be pres
ent. Special music.
JEPTHA'S DAUGHTER AT EBENEZER CHAPEL, FRIDAY, MARCH
DON'T MISS IT.
CATHOLICS AND NEGROES.
The Attitude of the Catholic Church
Toward Us.
To Bring About Complete Emancipa
tion Six Negro Priests In America
Cathedral in Panama Built by
Negro.
Los Angeles, Cal, "The Church
and the Negro" is the caption of an ar
ticle written by Walter F. McEntire,
one of the ablest and most prominent
attorneys of this city, and published
in "The Tidings," tho magazine pub
lished as the official organ of the Cath
olic diocese of Los Angeles.
The attitude of the Catholic Church
toward the Negro is treated by Mr.
McEntire in an exhaustive manner,
and he cites many facts of interest
concerning the race's relation with
that church In the United States. The
article advances the opinion that the
mission of the Cattiollc Church em
braces the complete emancipation of
the Negro and the giving to him of his
place and standing in the human fam
ily. One of the factors In the church
for the carrying out of this Idea In the
Catholic board for Mission Work
Among the Colored People, of which
His Eminence, James Cardinal Gib
bons, Archbishop of Baltimore, is hon
orary president, and tho Rt. Rev. Mgr.
John F. Purke of New York la director
general. Mr. McEntire has been and still is
engaged in making an investigation as
to Negro priests in the church, and
brings out the fact that the Rt. Rev.
Francisco Javier Luna Victorlay Cas
tro, bishop of Panama in 1751, after
wards transferred to Trujlllo, Peru-,
was the first Negro native born bishop
on this continent. In 1902, he states,
the lato Pope Leo XIII restored tho
diocese of Marianna, Amazon, Brazil,
with a population of 3,000,000 souls,
designated a Negro, the Rt. Rev, Sll
vera Gomez Pimentar as Its bishop,
The cathedral now standing In Pan
HIGH SCHOOL ORCHESTRA
IS INVITED!
31.
ama was built by the first-named bish
op with funds from his private purse,
THE REPUBLICAN TICKET.
For Mayor George H. Edwards.
For City Comptroller Eugene H.
ulaue.
For City Treasurer Harry E. Bar
ker. For Members Board of Education
Wm. A. Knotts (Rep.), James E. Nu
gent (Dem.)
For Judge South Side Court Joseph
F. Keirnan.
For Judge North Side Court Fred
W. Coon.
UPPER HOUSE.
Albert I. Beach, L. U Adams, George
L. Peterson, Emll Dorn, J. H. Frame,
Charles O. LaRue, E. B. Harrington,
John H. Speas.
L0..4R HOUSE.
First Ward John u. Lawrence.
Second Ward John Z. Sterrett.
Third Ward G. W. Duvall.
Fourth Ward Amos Townsend.
Fifth Ward Joseph Lassou.
Sixth Ward N. G. Hatch.
Seventh )Vard Charles P. Wood
bury. Eighth Ward Frank Seely.
Ninth Ward E. E. Canham, Jr.
Teiiiii ward E. E. Lower.
Eleventh Ward Herbert M. Fletch
er.
Twelfth Ward Louis Oppensteln.
Thirteenth Ward Walter M. Knoop.
Fourteenth Ward Allen P. Flnnell.
Fifteenth Ward Edwin V. Simons.
Sixteenth Ward Ed L. Winn.
CARNIVAL OF ALL NATIONS
Under auspices of '
Cllty Federation of Colored Women's
Clubs.
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY,
MARCH 22 AND 23
At Lyric Hall.
Dancing. Admission 25 Cents.
THE GOLDEN WEST.
AN INTERESTING REVIEW OF
THE PEOPLE, TOWNS AND
POSSIBILITIES OF THE
GREAT WESTERN SEC
TION OF OUR
COUNTRY.
The Colored Americans Making Good
In the Far West and a Steady
Stream of Desirable Immi
gration Now Pouring Into
That Splendid Coun
try With Its Won
derful Possi
bilities. Chapter 13.
It was with decided regret that we
lett Helena on Wednesday morning for
our next stop which was to be Butte
the world famous." And at 5 o'clock
In the afternoon after a dusty but par
ticularly beautiful scenic trip, we roll-
ea Into the city of which we had heard
so much and which was not only the
largest city in Montana but was reput
ed to be the gamest, toughest and
greatest mining camp in the world.
Butte is situated on the West slope
of the main range of the Rocky Moun
tains. It was laid out In 1SC7 and In
1876 the population was about 500.
The discovery of copper became the
basis of Butte's prosperity; and now
it has a population of nearly 100,000.
Butte produces 23,000,000 pounds of
copper per month or one fourth of the
copper In America and one seventh of
the world. Also about $530,000 in sil
ver and $150,000 in gold per month and
there are still millions of tons of ore
in the producing properties. We were
told by the secretary of the Merchants'
Association that the pay roll of labor
ers In the various mines of Butte
amounts to $1,600,000 per month
miners receiving on an average of $4
per day. And there are about 15,000
miners employed working about 100
different properties. There are two
colored companies. The Red Rock
mining company capitalized at $1,000,
000, twenty-three miles east of Butte
on the Great Northern Railroad and
the Afro-American Mining and Milling
Company in Sliver Bow county. Jeffer
son county and Madison county with
a capital of $500,000. There are sever
al places of Interest that attract the
attention of a stranger in Butte, among
the most conspiclous of which is the
monument of Marcus Daily, the great
copper king, which stands at the head
of the. principal street In front of the
Government building; another is tue
tallest concrete stack in the world
which surmounts the Butte reduction
works where the beautiful Columbia
gardens situated at the foot of the
Rockies on ihe Pacific Slope Is one of
the most beautiful parks in the world.
Butte is the natural gateway to the
marvelous and wonderful Yellow Stone
National Park and the City Is always
filled with strangers during the season
going to or from this resort. There
are about 400 Colored people In Butte
some of whom are doing nicely.
Upon our arrival in the city we hunt
ed up our agent for the Sun. Mr. Jerry
l.arklns who had an excellent place of
business at 9 East Galena street, but
who has been compelled on account of
the increase in his business to secure
larger quarters and is now located at
41-1 South Main Street.
After removing the stains of travel
in his shop we were conducted by him
to our stopping place which was the
residence of Mrs. Ella Poague who un
doubtedly has one of the finest homes
we saw on our entire trip. And it was
really a difficult thing to get the
Grand Secretary to leave the next day.
After calling up a few friends in the
adjoining City of Anaconda Ti miles
away and having a pleasant chat with
Mr. and Mrs. Leatherbury, Mr. Galves
ton Miller and sister, were taken
for a ride over the city by our repre
sentatives Mr. Larklns and had point
ed out us many places of interest. Wo
were Invited to go down in one of the
mines 2,000 feet, but on account of the
rabbit in our Secretary we were dis
suaded from going. Our people have
two Churches here both small but ably
pastored. The pastor of the Shaffer
A. M. E. Church Is the Rev. R. S.
Brown a brother of Rev. J. M. Brown
formerly of Topeka but now of Port
land, Ore., who graduated last year
from Payne's Theological Seminary
at Wilberforce and who was married
immediately after his graduation to
Miss Floy M. Smith the daughter of
one of his Instructors, and a very
charming and cultured young woman.
Rev. Brown Is entering into ills new
work with much zeal in a month after
his appointment succeeded In raising
$350, $100 being given him by
one banking firm in that city. When
we returned from our drive we were
agreeable surprised to have the house
filled with Butte's leading Colored cit
izens, among whom were Rev. and Mrs.
Brown, Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Larklns,
Mr. J. Harrison, Miss Sallle Moore,
formerly 'of this city, Mrs. C. E. Jones,
and a number of others whose names
we do not recall Just at this time. A
delightful evening was spent In social
coverse and some excellent musical
numbers wcte furnished by Mrs,
Brown. On account of our niece and
her husband Mr. and Mrs. F, M. Shan
non of 10 S. Washington Street being
on a visit in Seattle our stay was
necessarily cut short In this very In
teresting and aggressive city and after
a splendid night's rest and a delight
ful breakfast we called a taxi cab and
were carried to the station and start
ed on the last leg of our Journey to the
PROF. JOHN M. MARQUESS.
Principal of Sumner High School, Kansas City, Kas.; Secretary of Prince
Hall Grand Lodge, A. F. and A. M of the State of Kansas, and one
of the most eloquent orators and finished scholars the race has pro
duced In the last quarter of a century, who, to the regret of his mul
tltude of friends both in Greater Kansas City and the States of Mis
souri and Kansas, resigns the prlnclpalshlp of the school that he has
made one of the best among Negroes In America, to accept the presi
dency of a State University for Negroes located at Langston, Ok. His
resignation is to take place June 1. While the Sun deplores Prof.
Marquess' resignation from this city, it congratulates Langston Univer
sity upon its good fortune in having secured for its head a man who
is destined to do in the future the splendid things Booker T. Wash
ington did in the past.
beautiful and peerless Queen of the
Western plains, Billings, Mont., of
which we will speak in the next chap
ter. MOBERLY, MO.
The revival at Second Baptist
church closed Friday night with 12
additions. Sunday Rev. L. Curtis
filled the pulpit morning and evening.
Services at Grant chapel were well at
tended all day and the collection was
good Rev. M. L. Bryan left Satur
day Rev. Abbott of Hutnsville and
Rev. Berry of Brunswick, Mo., will as
sist the pastor In revival this week. . .
Covenant Sunday morning at the. Pil
grim Baptist church and the pastor
preached.jit night. ..CQjJection?25.
Rev. J. W. Gordon of Richmond re
turned Monday to continue the meet
ing Visitors in town are: Henry
Elijah of Salisbury. Mo., and Mrs. Ber
tie Patrick of Fayette, Mo Mrs.
Maymie Carr, Daisy Wells, Sallie Vi
vians and Christina Holder are report
ed convalescing. .. .Mrs. Clyde Klyer
entertained the embroidery club Thurs
day at the close of business. The
hostesses served a two course lunch
eon Mrs. Kiyer entertained Drs.
Longdon and Jackson, Misses Bertha
Maupin and Lee Etta Owens Thurs
day night The F. C. and B. club
gave Master Leon Newby a shower
last Wednesday. A two course lunch
eon was served by Mrs. Newby.
Mrs. Mattle E. Winn of Tripplett. Mo.,
spent several days in our city healing,
returning home March l....The pa
trons of Lincoln High school organ
ized a Patron and Teachers' Associa
tion, Mrs. W. P. Brooks, chairman:
Mrs. J. S. Barton, secretary. Next
meeting will be held the 14th inst at
Hartley chapel M. E. church. .. .Again
the death angel has entered our midst
and taken Mrs. Annie Brown from la
bor to reward. The deceased depart
ed this life March 1 5. She was born
in Platte county, Mo., in 1855, and
was 61 years old. She was a faith
ful and consistent Christian and an
untiring laborer for her Lord and Mas
ter. She was a member of Ideal
Court No. 102, H. of J. and Queen
Esther Temple No. 38, S. M. T.; a faith
ful and loyal member of Pilgrim Rest
Baptist church, being one of the char
ter members. A mother, brother, two
sisters, two nieces, two nephews and
a host of relatives and sorrowing
friends mourn her demise. The fu
neral was held from Pilgrim Rest Bap
tist church, Rev. J. S. Swancy officiat
ing. Burial in Oakland cemetery.
DALTON, MO.
Rev. W. H. Davis, pastor of the
First Baptist church of Forest Green,
Mo., preached at the Baptist church
here Sunday morning and evening, A
large and appreciative audience was
present at each service. Prof. N. C.
Bruce and faculty with a large num
ber of the Btudent body attended serv
ices Sunday. Rev. Davis preached an
excellent sermon. The ministers of
Charlton County Church Union will
convene with us March 21-26. Many
are expected to be present!
BUNCETON, MO.
At the Dunbar High school public
rhetoricals were held Friday after
noon. Superintendent Mauck deliv
ered an address on "Preparedness"
and also J. N. Moore made a few re
marks on the progress of the school.!
Rev. R. E. Lee responded,. The pu
pils furnished music. Misses FJy and
Newman are the teachers. The High
school pupils are doing fine work..,.
Miss Maudle Dorris, a former pupil,
was called from labor to reward Feb
ruary 21. She was a bright, studious
and loving pupil. ..On February 28 the
colored voters of Bunceton met and
organized a Republican cltib to be
known' as the "Swanger for Governor
club."
AN EDITOR'S PLEA.
Live of poor men oft remind us
That honest toil don't stand a
chance;
The more we work we leave behind us
Bigger patches on our pants.
On our pants once new and glossy
Now are patches of different hue;
All because subscribers lh'ger
And won't pay us what is due.
Then let us all be up and doing,
Send in your mite, be It ever so
small.
Or when cold winter again shall strike
us
We will have no pants at all.
""ATJEW MA'S ON fC"lTo DCe
In the presence of a large concourse
of Master Masons a new Masonic lodge
was established last Saturday night,
making a total of twelve lodges in
this city. The new lodge was named
John Lange. in honor of the oldest
MR. JOHN LANGE.
living Past Grand Officer and one of
the race's most distinguished citizens,
who has done much for the Church, for
the lodge and the race ini the past
forty years. The new organization has
a membership at present of forty-six,
and Its first officers are Dr. Otis G.
Hlnes. W. M.; Lawyer C. H. Calloway,
S. W.; Chas. F. Wilson. J. W.; W. B.
Simpson, Sec'y; Dr. Howard M. Smith,
Treas.: E. Alfred, Chaplain; O. Kings
bury, Senior Steward; Jas. F, Run
nels, Junior Steward; Dr, T, E. Gray,
Senior Deacon; Chas, Ridley, Junior
Deacon, and Geo. Lyons; Tyler. Much
credit for this new organization is due
Special Deputy Richard Fulbrlght and
District Deputy E. G. Lacey.
On next Thursday the Grand Master
accompanied by Dr. M. O. Ricketts and
a degree team from Kansas City and
St, Joseph, Grand Secretary Love,
Grand Relief Secretary Fields, Royal
Grand Matron Victoria C. Haley and
Past Grand Lecturer Kate Wilson will
go to Maryvllle, Mo., to institute an
other new lodge of thirty men and a
new chapter which will be one of the
greatest social as well as fraternal
events that ever happened in that
beautiful little city. Arrangements
are being made on a lavish scale for
Uielr entertainment and a great tlmo
is expected. The Grand Master re
turned from Maryvllle yesterday,
where he has been completing tha pre
liminary arrangements and says tho
town is wild with enthusiasm for the
new lodge and new chapter.
Give them flowers while they are
living. Order today a basket of fruit
or some flowers sent out from the
WEAVER FLORAL AND FRUIT CO.,
1510 E. 18th st. Bell phone East 4798,
Orders of SO cents or more will be de.
Ilvcred promptly.
