THE BARME BMLF TIME
VOL XIX NO. 30G.
HAH HI', VKHMOXT, SATURDAY. MARCH 11, 1910.
ntlCK, ONE CEXT.
FUNSTON GETS
FULL AUTHORITY
TO HUNT VILLA
The Number of Men to be Taken Into
Mexico and the Route to be Follow
ed Has Been Left by the Govern
ment to His Discretion
CARRANZA APPLIES
FOR RIGHT OF ENTRY
He Asked
For the
the American Government
Privilege of Entering the
United States to Go in Pursuit of the
Bandits
Washington, D. C March 11. Instructions conveying full au
thority to Major-General Funston to dispatch a defensive expedi
tion into Mexico in pursuit of Villa and his bandits was to-day in
Funston's hands. Secretary of War Baker announced that full
discretion as to the number of men to be used and the route to be
followed was left to Funston.
The Senate foreign relations committee to-day unanimously
endorsed the action of President Wilson in sending American
troops into Mexico for the purpose of capturing Villa and the raid
ers of Columbus, New Mexico.
The ambassadors from Chile and Brazil, who took part in the
Pan-American' concert which resulted in the recognition of Car
ranza, called on Secretary of State Lansing to-day to inquire about
the action of the United States. They were informed fully, but
hey made no comment. There was no indication of a disposition
to do more than father information
The administration officials regard General Carranza's proposai
that he be permitted to cross the border as a seeming indication
that he will not protest against American troops on Mexican soil.
as had been feared.
Up to noon to-day no American troops actually had crossed the
border, so far as known, and it was believed here that none would
start moving before night, all the arrangements having been left
with Funston.
Aero Squadron Is Going.
San Antonio, Texas, March 11. Major-General Funston an
nounced to-day that while he will have the direction of military
affairs along the Mexican border, the expedition into Mexico to
capture Villa will be in charge of a brigadier-general, whose name
will be given out in Washington. A full aero squadron will be dis
patched with the expedition. The organization of the expedition
will not be completed for two or three days, Funston said, as the
troops from other army divisions will be added to the border forces,
, .
CARRANZA ASKS
RIGHT TO CROSS
U. S. BORDER
of Mciiian government troops, an Amur
ican woman held prisoner by Villa for
iilno day, but who sseaped In Columbus
light, states that during ll that time
lie was undisturbed lit m great distance
from the border, collecting a force of
bout 3,000. The few Carrania troops in
the region fled, lining ll run tact with
him nJ not oven informing us as to hit
whereabout.
"It is pioriosed to take action suggest
ed, 1 recommend no infonaatlon be given
out in order that we may stand some
chance of surprising.
"If desired. 1 ahall personally commana,
It would be desirable to replace at aoon
aa possible from available cavalry in the
I'nited States the cavalry taken from
the border.
(Signed) "Funston."
MANY PRECEDENTS
FOR "HOT TRAIL"
OF VAUX VILLAGE
Head of De Facto Government in Mexi
ico Counters on the United States
By Seeking Permission to -Pursue
Bandits North
of Line.
WashingioiijjfD. C, March 1 1 . General ;
Carntnza, through Consul Silliman, has
when the United States tried to invade
Mexican territory, Germany and Japan
would step in and interfere. Whether
agents of these countries were makinz
him believe this or whether it is an idea
which came to him I do not know But
he is convinced he will be assisted in the
tight he has started."
Airs. Wright was a member of a party
of 70 women refugees from Columbus
who arrived in El l'aso yesterday. Altto
in the party was Mrs. Ritchie, who came
for the burial of her husband, W. T.
Ritchie, the hotel proprietor, who was
murdered by the. bandits at Columbus
i.a i' ; ,i. : .., . . .r . - t
asked the American government for per-,, "i,;" 7 , TJT W I 1 .
. . . . , . . . ful bruise of the left hand inflicted bv a
mission to send Mexican troops across
the border into the United States in pur
suit' of the bandits.
IT WAS FALSE ALARM
Columbus, N. M, Thought It Was About
To Be Attacked.
-The in-
bandit in wresting from her fingers four
rings, two of them diamonds. Later she
received from the hospital, where thi
wounded Mexicans were carried, fcfie fol
lowing message in English:
"I sorry I take the rings."
The writer was the man who had
struck and robbed her and later took
part in murdering Iter husband.
We were awakened by a fullisade,
Columbus, N. M., March II
habitants of this town were again -,i . . tj:i,; .,.i . ...i.. . '
thrown into excitement last night wlij-n ! wd, the banditg broko . to '
report came that ilia had recrossed the n . ,,pnl.n,.d monpv. Mr KirM wm
border and surrounded the town. Armed
President Wilson Acted oa Principles of
International Law Sanctioning
Punitive Expeditions.
Washington, I). C, March II. Iu or
dering United States troops into Mexi
co to hunt down Villa's bandit army,
President. Wilson acted on tlm itrincinle
of international law sanctioning punitiis HOLD EASTERN PART
expeditions against tactions in a foreign
state which cannot be or are not pre
vented by the constitutional authorities
of that state from attacking its neigh
bort.
Authorities on International law and
practice pointed yesterday to many pre
cedents witnessing the general accept
ance of this principle. It was written
into the treaty of lH'.M) between the Unit
ed States and Mexico, which now has
lapsed in the form of a provision under
which the military forces of either coun
try could pursue marauders across the
international line, where a "hot trail"
existed. Even before this treaty was ne
gotiated, however, Hi'iijainin Law tun pur-
ued a band of raiding A parches into Mex
ico and although the .Mexican govern
ment protested, it recognized the princi
ple on which l.awton acted in acceptance
f the treaty.
Daniel Webster, as secretary of state,
accepted the "hot trail principle In ne
gotiating with Canadian authorities dur-
ng the reman trouble in Canada. The
'aroline, a vessel used by the Fenians to
arry an expedition across the Niagara
river into Canada,, was pursued to the
American side bv Canadians and there
estroyed. Secretary Webster notilied
anada that the United States would
makejio complaint if Canada affirmed
as she Subsequently did, that the danger
of Canadian territory was of such im
minence that summary action agains
the raider was regarded as imperative,
NO AMERICANS
LOST AS SILIUS
WAS TORPEDOED
The Seven Who Were Aboard
the Norwegian Bark De
stroyed in Havre Roads on
Germans Have MaHe Froe- arcn vvere rescued,
ress on the SIodcs Leading Says Consul Osborne
to the Fort, but Have Not
Yet Reached the Barbed NO WARNING GIVEN
Wire Entanglements Be
fore the Position
MOVE
TOWARD
VAUX
ABNAKI CAMP BOYS
'IN JOYFUL REUNION
Talked Over Last Summer's Sport on
, i
Shores of Lake Cliamplain and Laid
Plans for the 1916 Camp
Banquet Served Last
Evening,
The finst ceremony of the l."tli annual
reunion of the boys of Camp Abnaki
was a banquet laid in the vestry of tho
Congregational church 'in Barre last even
ing. Nine tabh-s were placed about the
room as nearly as possiblo in thenar
rangment at the real camp and the
scouts themselves at the direction of
their leaders waited on the guests. Camp
Director Byron N. Clark of Burlington
tilled his customary position and at the
sound of his whistle all noise was
stopped and his directions were carried
out in true camp style. One of the boys
explained this prompt obedience by say
ing that anv scout who did not obey
OF INTENDED ATTACK wouM "docked a swim" but. what
ever, me reason, it is rareiy mat iu
boys of their ages appear so orderly as
did the boys of Camp Abnaki last evening.
The hall was decorated with the camp
fl.. ...i I. ... I :.. .1 l..-
tj 1 T a. rpi " t I "HKS w ill' ii were iiung in me name oruur
XiarK LOSt llieir LilVeS as they appear on the pole at camp and
mi,- o"1 tir tj j represented the various owners of the
ine OlllUS WaS i0Una Uland at North Hero where the camp is
situated. .The bear flag, representing
the Indian control, appeared at the bot
23 OFFICIALS
APPOINTED
Lee Retains Double Office of
Water Superintendent
and City Engineer
WISHART GRAND JUROR
AND CITY ATTORNEY
Three of the Crew of the
Only (Vof Mayor Gordon'3
ointments Was
V' Turned Down
'
with few variations from Cue rule of
from New York for Havre
and Wa5 Sunk ns SVip Wjus rm of the line nd wa f,,Uow'!', "c-8-
dllU W dS OUHK as One W as giveIv by thH Krpnclli British the Vcr-
Enterine- Harbor Durinir h,0,lt Btlite ila w,'ith wa9 Pre,pnted t0
iiiuenilg Xldruor X7Unng the can bv the Vermont branch of the
the Nlfrht I Daughters of the Revolution, and lastly
O . hitr Atneripflti fluff fhw aiffc ctf Kpv Air
Rankin of Newport. At the other end
of the hall appeared ft large American
fluff flanlrArl t 41ia rfrrKt and loff Kir fhn
.....,N , iv, v... jwrcu w. i.oi nu. pritidh flag and a reproduction of Cham
plain's flag. Troop flags, patrol flags
and signal flags were arranged on both
sides of the hall with banners of the
camp among them. Evergreen trees also
French Are Still in Posses
sion of the Western Part
of the Village, According
to the French Official An
nouncement This After-
! OihftrnA 11 1 IT a ito ronnriajf tn.r1av that
noon Violent Fighting Is when the Norwegian bark Silius, bound
. iraii.tii i utk ior navre, was lorpe-
(lOing On Idoed without warning in Havre Roads
the night of the 9th, seven Americans pRVe the hall a eamplikn atmosphere
iwim rrc rmuru. j 110 ions 01 iritf
Silius was first reported last night from
Paris, March 11. There it atill violent London. Three members of her crew
were iosi.
fighting for possession of the fort At
Vsux, according to the war office an
nouncement this afternoon. The Ger
mans made progress along the slopes
leading to the position but have not yet
reached the barbed wire entanglements
ARMED VERONA ARRIVES.
Italian Ship Carried Guns Mounted on
Her Stern.
Twelve towns were represented bv the
visitors among the bovs and there was
also a tableful of guests of honor
Among the latter were Principal H. H
Jackson of Spauldmg high school. Dr.
O. G. Sticknev of the state Y. M. C A
commission, Dr. J. V. Harnett and Dr.
E. F. Newell, pastors of' local churches
having boy scout troops, and the fathers
of some of the bovs who are members
AMERICAN RANCHER SLAIN
When 200 Mexicans Crossed Border Into
Arizona.
Bidhce, Ariz., March 11. An American
rancher was killed last night when a
band of approximately 200 Jfesiean ban
dits crossed the border southeast of Os
borne Junction, Arir., according to re
ports reaching here last night. Many
head of livestock were killed or driven
off bv the bandits, it was stated.
SECOND CAVALRY ANXIOUS.
U. S. Soldiers at Fort Ethan Allen Want
To Go To Mexico.
Iturlington, March 11. The second V.
S. cavalry,, stationed at Fort Kthan Al
len, has received no orders relative to
the Mexico situation, and the men, who
have done splendid service in Indian
fighting, have nearly given up hope of
getting into the present fight. Ilio en
tire force, consisting of 12 troops of cav
alry and a machine-gun platoon, num
bering about BOO oflicers and men, is
equipped and readv to move at a mo
ment s notice. eekly inspections of
the entire regiment are held with this
object in view, and if ordered to do so
the regiment could entrain as fast as the
cars could be provided.
90 BANKERS PRESENT.
sick in bed. He told me to band over
" 4 ! 1 A ' AX.- A a 1
put out by the military authonties fired ;while a IJoould mmt. $- lhis
shots at everything that appeared to . Mt .11,1l tk,r ... ,
move in the desert brush surrounding . robbed n)e pf ri M husband
the town.
C'l A- .. I ..A 11.. ...... .
, C H111 " "K" '"K I hauled out of the room. Mv daughter.
. , S V , , ," T l"'"- Kdna, found Iiim dead, at the foot of
Mi t :.o untn-K uui nnii hii iiour iMwr;jjie stairs "
tnere appeared no sign mat ma nan
reached the boundary with his army.
The entire military force at the disposal
of Colonel Slocum was ready, however,
for a fight at a moment's notice.
I was attacked at the same time and
RELENTLESS PURSUIT.
VILLA COUNTED ON
GERMANY AND JAPAN
To Round Up Villa Or He Will Continue
His Raids.
Washington. D. C. March 1 l-The text
of a dispatch from General Kun-ton follows:
It is opinion of Colonel iKnld and
Mrs. Mand Wright, American Woman '?ilofum' in mVh 1 neur. that unl
At the Annual Meeting of Northern
Bankers' Association at Woodstock.
Woodstock, March II. The annual
meeting and banquet of the Northern
Hankers' association was held here yes
terday afternoon and last evening in the
Woodstock inn. I he membership of
the organization includes Vermont, New
Hampshire, Massachusetts and parts of
.New ork state. About 90 persons at-
ended the dinner and the attendance at
the meeting was one of the largest in
the history of the association. Arthur
. Cass of 1 ilton, N. 11., was toastmaster.
The speakers were Alfred L. Aiken, gov
ernor of the Federal Reserve bank of
Boston; Frank C. Williams' of Newport,
state bank examiner; Willis O. Naih of
the Irving National bank of New York
lty; A. it. Collier, vice president of the
-National Miawnut hank of Boston. At
he close of the dinner, Tra A. Harris of
the Indian Head National bank of Nash
ua, N. H., gave a talk on "Around the
World in 80 Minutes," using stereopticon
views in illustrating his address.
The following oflicers w-ere chosen at
the business meeting held in the after
noon: President, 1). W. Davis of Der
by Line; vice president, V. R. Bugbee of
Hanover, N. If., and F. C. Adams of
Rrattleboro; secretary and treasurer, W.
If. MeCarten of Manchester, N. If.; ex
ecutive council, W. J. Sax of Windsor,
.1. M. Blakelv of Nashua, N. J I., and C. H.
rorbush of Springfield.
Veil- York Moi-f.li 11 Tho Ttolian
i t -t x.' r- .-,t .n..J,in Vo,on. rriv fmm or prospective members of the camp
ui ixuui ui me juit. xue unmans oiui ............ j ....... , . ,
...... ... . . ..Genoa with imn mounted t the stern. 1 "e lmnK on l" program in
noia some nouses in me eastern pan oil. . , ? . . ' speeches was a report of the "tent in-
... .... V. . hut she carried no passengers. This is i o "i""1 UI ' .
uie viuage or vaux, wniie we rrencn the Becond time the y ived spect.on, reaa, oy m . uaw. i n
arc in ALwinii f th. wtrn n.rt served to retiuna several members of trie
puny 01 minor oiiriise runimineii v
camp and brought many a laugh at the
malefactors expense. Winnifred Smith
of the town.
launched with huge effectiveness, and with
losses described as beyond all proportion
to the objective they sought, have re
BUMPED BY AN ENGINE.
Germans Retook Part of Carbeaux Wood. I
The German,, in infantry attacks. Alexander Ada. ,63, Hurt So Badly He ltlXJZ
a,,d Scoutmaster Hubbard of the same
Alexander Adams, aged 63, a section troon extended the welcome to the com
hand employed in the Barre yards of the mittee in charge- of the affair. The re
Montneher &, Welts River railroad, was I nnon wero mn1 hv irilmr WTiitMmk
occupiea a part or ta Lorbeaux wood, quite seriously injured this morning at of Jfontpelier and Rev. S. F. Blomfield
west of the Meuse and northwest of 8:30 o clock -when locomotive No. 4, the of the same citv. "The Bovs" waa
Verdun, according to tho French official I Grnito City, bumped him as he was toast responded to by Clinton Ifasbrook
.w 5,Mrinf witch of the nijfht'a accumu- officer of the camp. Harold Waltor
. , . ,,, , " llation of snow. The accident occurred at toasted "Tlie I-eaders." "Camp Spirit
nun attacks west of the village of Dou- the switch just south of the Cushman A and Honors" wss the snbiect of a brief
aumont ana against the village Of Vaux ward electric snop in J-.nterprise alley, speech by Howard Miller of Bntlington
were put down by the French. I Adams was tnrown to tnc grouna ana and at the close of his speech he present-
wnen trainmen reacnea nis siae iney as- el to tne camp a silver loving cup from
Germans Win Near Rheima. sisted mm to nis reet, but lie was unable the MLilIer family in memory of his
to Stand alone. Dr. William Mrrarland hrnlKtr Murlinir hn uaa . rnu-nu in o
Berlin, via London, March 11. The WM cBlled and the man was removed to canoe accident at the camp last season.
capture of, French positions 1.400 yards hie home, 31 West street. Afterward he The cup will be known as the "Marling
wide and about two-thirds of a mile w8 taken to tne uty hospital, n is Miller Memorial" cup and on it will be
deep south of Ville Aux
Kneims, was announcea oy tne war omce suffered are not considered serious. This at the camp.
to-aay.
noon it was stated that the patient was "The Hikes" wa discussed hv Mr,
resting fairly well. Nourse..who ended his speech with the
A spare crew from Mcntpelier was presentation of a church flair to the
manning the shifter, with Engineer Lach- camp. This flag is the only one which
ner at the throttle. Trainmen saw mav be hoisted above the flag of the
Adams stoopini? over the switch, shovel I nited States and this nnvilece is al-
BY GERMANY ia ''"d' an(1 thought that he would step lowed only on Sundays at church serv-
aside as the stutter approached. Appar- ice.
Cabinet Has Resiened in Order to Give entiy the "tion hand did not hear the "Music and Minstrels," by Lawrence
imumuiivr, s i-iri-iijiiBinnce inai may uv i iieney, Boating ana risning, oy
accounted for by the fact that a strong bert Munson, "Chapel and Church," by
PORTUGAL PREPARES
TO MEET ATTACK
Way to National Defense Govern
ment Now Being Formed
Great Britain Forced
Portugal's Hand.
Lisbon, March 11. The Portuguese
cabinet has resigned to give place to a
national defense movement which is now
being formed. In Parliament yesterday
the retiring 'foreign minister read the
notes which had been exchanged between
(Jermany and Portugal and also the note
wind was blowing. The shifter wasmov
ing slowly and when it struck the man,
it knocked him clt-ar of the track.
MONTPELIER
Washington County Listers to Meet at
City Hall March 18
The annual gathering of the listers of
Washington county will be held next Kri-
from Great Britain requesting the Portu- day. March 17, in the memorial room at
Kiiese government, in view of the alii- j he rlty according to notices sent
ance between these nations, to scire the 0,,t by Tax Commissioner Charles A.
Herman shins in Portuguese norfs Tmn. I'lumley of Northfleld. The listers of
quility prevails throughout the country.
ITALIAN CABINET
READY FOR SHAKE-UP
Advocates of Coalition Government are
Said to Be Insistent for Repre
sentation on the Board.
London, March 11. A Milan dispatch
to the Daily Mail says that a cabinet
crisis is believed to be imminent in Italy j went this morning to Winoonki with her
the various towns and cities meet yearly
at a place designated by the commission
er, to become acquainted with any
changes in the statutes and to receive in
structions from those in charge. Com
missioner I'lumley and others will speak
at the meeting next week.
Notice of the final meeting of the
creditors in the bankrupt estate of Fay
ette T. Cutler of Barre, to be held before
Referee W. N. Theriault the forenoon of
March 21, were mailed to-day by the
Eeferee.
Mrs. Daniel Roach of Barre street
owing to the insistence of the advocates
of a coalition government for represent
tion in the cabinet.
I
GIBSON WAS NOT CLUBBED.
Sharon Man Died of Hemorrhages and
Shock of Gunshot Wound.
GODDARD DEFEATED.
Lost to Holderness at Plymouth, N. H,
43 to 25.
rivmouth. N. H., March II
Woodstock, March 11. Charles Leich-
ton and sons, Walter and Newell Ieigh- jand shoe merchant of that city, has pur
daughter, Alice, who will enter St. Mary's
academy. They were accompanied by
Misses Rose Doyle and Flora Page. Mr.
Roach leaves the middle of next week
for the Pacific coast to join her husband,
who is playing on the Keith vaudeville
circuit. They plan to visit Alaska before
their return to Montpelier next sum-mr.
Jowph Simo of Nashua. N. 11.. a boot
Hayes Braker. "Tennis and Other
Games," by Robert Luce, "Fourth of
July," by (lifton Calhoun, "Talks and
Lectures," by A. Farnhani, "Scout
Work," by Emery Ncwhall, scoutmaster
of troop No.. 4 of the Methodist church,
"The Abnaki Herald." by Walter Bur
gin, and "Campfiies," by Alan Godfrey
were other toasts offered at the dinner.
Camp songs were sung during the cere
mony by the boys and, at the sugges
tion of Mr. Rankin, a vote of thanks was
offered to the ladies who had charge of
the banquet, A reading of camp letters,
a brief history of the 1!1. camp and the
announcement of plans for 1916 finished
the program.
Following the banquet the bovs gath
ered in the" dim light of the darkened
vestry around a cleverly arranged arti
ficial campfire and the usual devotional
services were given. A brief talk bv Mr,
Rankin was the feature of this part of
the entertainment. The evening closed
with the singing ensemble of the hymn,
"Blest He the Tie That Binds."
This morning the boys were conducted
through the Barclay Bros.' stoneshed and
most of them left for home this after
noon. The committees in charge of tlie
reunion arrangements were as follows:
Committee on credentials Winnifred
Smith and Emery Ncwhall.
Entertainment committee William
Milne. William Ban-lav. Donald Smith.
Charles Collins, W. A. Lane, Rcid Bar
clay, Leon Cumings.
Banquet committer Mrs. IVinahl
Smith, Mrs. E. n. Kent, Mis. E. A.
Irnwn, Mrs. Frank Cave. Mrs. Charles
unnnimity prevailing in tho indorsement
of appointments by Mayor Gordon for
the coining year, the board of aldermen
in a special session at the council eham-
ber last evening set the seal of its ap
proval on no fewer than 2.1 names pre.
sented by the new executive for consid
eration. ' A majority of the oflicea fillcil
are minor positions. ,
Alderman GJysson, whose nomination
as president of the 1910 board was con
firmed when the board organized ott
Wednesday morning, presided over tlm
meeting, and after a small budget of less
important matters had been considered,
the mayor sent in his appointments.
Notable in the sizeable list of nomina
tions were those of Frank O. Lee to
serve as superintendent of the water de
partment and citv engineer: William
Wishart as city attorney and grand jur
or, Dr. P. S. Duffy as city physician, Dr.
J. W. Stewart as secretary of the board
of health, and George N. Tilden as a
member of the park commission forthrea
years. Separate nominations were mada
for MV. Lee in the two offices which he
holds, and such was the case with the
appointment of Mr. Wishart as city at-
tnfrney and grand juror. When Mr.
Wishart "s name was presented for thn
city attorney, unanimity was expressed
by the act of the clerk in casting a sin
gle vote, but thereafter it was decided
to have a secret ballot on each nomination.
With two exceptions six votes con
firmed the nominations. Only one nom-
nation, that of Fred W. Suitor as park
commissioner, was turned down; and in
every instance but one the appointee
succeeds himself, the exception being tho
appointment of Alexander Ritchie as a
third member of the board of health to
succeed John F. Cook. On the nomina
tion of Mr. Suitor as park commission
er, a tie vote, 3 to 3, eliminated the ap
pointee. Then the mayor sent in tho
name of George N. Tilden. who was con
firmed by a 4 to 2 vote. Thus far noth
ing has taken place to indicate that the
salary of any of the officer-holders is to
be increased.
Below is given the complete list of
appointments ratified, bv' the board in
the order in which the communications
from the mayor were read and action.
thereon taken: City attorney, William
Wishart j water superintendent, Frank
O. Lee; city engineer, Frank O. Lee;
city physician, Dr. I. S. Duffy; board of
health. Dr. J. W. Stewart, Charles R.
Olliver, Alexander Ritchie; first- assist
ant engineer of the fire department, E.
M. Tobin: second assistant engineer, W.
C. Beck; third assistant engineer, R. D.
Carpenter; city weighers. Louis Rollo,
C. I). Badger anil C. W, Clifford; inspec
tors of wood, lumber and shingles, W. If.
Kelly and H. F. .Johnson: inspector of
food, Dr. .1. H. Woodruff; fence viewers,
C. Vorney, J. C. Harris; inspector of
paint, H. F. Colby; pound keepers, B. B.
Jackson and K A. Slavton: trustee of
emeterv trust funds, William McDon- ,
hi: nark commissioner for three venrs.
Jeorge X. Tilden; grand jurors, William
Wishart. L. C. Beck.
A warrant drawn in favor of Frank O.
L-ft for $.4.!H, expenses of I'iettsburg
trip,, was presented by the clerk and ap
proved for payment, and a request from
Henry Luiidy for permission to build a
piazza on his Granite street dwelling
was granted on the favorable recommen
dation of the building inspector. After
the appointments had been confirmed,
the board adjourned and the council con
vening, went into executive session.
WESTERN UNION ON FIRST FLOOR.
Barre Office To Be Located in the Morse
Building,
ton. charred with killinir A. L. Gilon on chased the stock of the McDonald store Collins. Mrs. . A. Ijine. Mrs. William
February 24 in Sharon, durine a dispute !on State street of Benjamin Gates, trus- Milne, Mrs. William Barclay, Mrs. K. (
over the ownership of toes and the lora- tee of the McDonald bankrupt estate, fiimings. F-arl Ine. Lawrence Kent
tion of a boundary line of a timber lot. ;The stock will be sold by Mr. Simo to- Wendall Drown. Wendall Smith, Charles
were araigned yesterday in Hartford mu- 'day. Collins, jr.
niciiial court before Judge A. O. Whit- Members of the high school basketball
. In a fast i
Held Captive by the Villa Bandits, " " " rn JTill l- I "" It night. Holderness mn- 1" three rnen entered pleas of not team and Coach Frederic Mwards of the DIED OF HEART DISEASE.
Overheard Villa's Statement to u2L t v "'"" - A .M.-ated Godd.rd. 4.1 to 2.".. Caiman 'pu.lty. . State's Attorney B. E. Cole of: faculty, went th.s forenoon to Krx .
n "e . " tror;. Mw-sm government are ac . , w M'n , '"X ; Windsor ap,ered for the .tat and Ray Junction to play a return game with the p c Abbfy of Essex passed Aw.
His Officers as They Du- compl.shing nothing and as he can cm- whiV TClrn ,n I Connor n,,ni1 T"in"r f Whit Rier Junction regimental team of the 2d cavalry at M"- P C' J , A7
cussed Raid on j fluent ly make Ins preparations and con- j . ...n for ,;0a,Ilir,, The ine . n- represented the Ieightons. The hearing Fort Ethan Allen. Tho wlio made the Yesterday.
Colnmbus. crntrations without being disturbed, he j 1 ' ' ' , . ill not, be finished until some time to-! trip were: Clark Gross. Jangraw. P,,t K-sex Junction. March II. Mrs. P. C.
T t. ' " !""" " '"- "t.i.t. r I . (day. j nam. Mnitn inn rape, l he team was dis- I AM v died suddenly about four oVI.h k
FJ Paso. Tex March 11. U Const i- Wing unable to bu,n advance informa- ! .lnin- rf 'h. A. Iroslant Th). ,ut, intnwllrM thrM pointed to learn of Burlmcton high's 'vesterdav morning at for home in K.rx
rion. a Wal Mexican rrr. has been tmn aa- to ,. hereabouts. i w';.'V' i !'-v i one of w hum w as Dr. E. J. Mone of Shar- J victory over Hardwi.k a.-ademv Ut i enter of heart tn.ui.le. Martha Woe.l.j
i!w'ilir Vy lur iwiiit nil uic mi- i it - 1 1 11 tt-r AT in. w Htie com- i - , , i . . , a.ii.i.-,, , A - : :i V.. .... , .. I . In .... t A. . 1.,.. l .1.. .... I. , ... ..f I. .11.. 1 I... I. ti , I
Improvements in the office and mes
senger service, of the Barre Western l.'n
ion agency is to he adjusted to larger
quarters, according to an announcement
made this morning to the effect that the
telegraph office is to be transferred from
the Worthen block to the middle store in
the Morse block. Two' oerators and
two messengers constittie the new serv
ice and the change in location, which is
to be brought alxuit shortly, will giv
Barre patrons the privileges of a tele
graph ollic-e on the ground floor. Altera
tions to the interior of the Morse bloi k
store, recently vacated by a jewelry firm,
are under wsv already ;ind will he com
pleted as soon as possible. Since tlm
otlii-e was moved from the Central Ver
mont station, the Western I'nion has
Oi-cupiitl second -floor apartment.
Basement space under what is to be
the Western I'nion oflioe lias been leased
to A. W. ledger Co., who will use the
basement (or a display room sff.T April
I. The basement apartment is to lie sr
finished as to conform with the under
ground display room now u-ed by Badger
& Co.. who. with tlie addition, will ha
a ipiarter-acre of floor spa-e.
DEATH MAY END CASE.
ms f 1 1 HAi-.ai avn in T rtM'B 1 1 II I (SI IF1B I ilsK lV !l II t hA 1 is 1 1 1 1 1 T r SI? I .11!." Mil .I.ikis
. .... ...1(jy lh). j.i.vswians testimonv was as a contender tor the championship b.n-; was !.rn February 12. l-sii. at K-ses. ( Sumner Ellingwood Won Homesleal
Illlilen. Wilson 1, fk- mflt ,,.t k. .,J .', l;rli..t.,n ! hilt nn. nw.ra t,. I. 4 I Si"! .1,. I ... I. II . . .
tucion,
su
tions have been seized because of an in- mand guarding town, ranche. and rail- Hai-klemen. fb
flammatory article against the I'nited roads it. will accomplish nothing if r ! Laird, lb rf.
States. can find Mfe refuge across the line aft. r I Sr I lold.-rness 4X frfddard 25. ' th.t r:il.. ,mA k.. Kx.u. .i..ki . ih.t ..nir s heliil.J om it k .m. tl.l-, .rvi.. W :k ! Bac!c Bu
Mrs. Maude right, an American worn- every raid. Although prtdbly not m-ro ;-l from floor-Talmtn in, lYippa ' a was alleged at the time f the trafe. i floor. two children. Bert Am-rr. wth h..tn sl ' Brsttieboro. Mrrh II.- Sumner
n kept captive by ill fir Bine days than a thoti-and took part in Columbus It. W.pgner f. Ijn l.-sj 4. Connor 3. Rib-y dT. j. Stone tetifiel that the man's Mr. and Mrs. R. J. IVCcMaines went 'resided, an 1 a daoi.-hter. Mrs. D. C. .l.-re-. t.l! n,ir !. M. of V.-rmm. retired urm
precfsimg the raid on tidumbii, told ti- raid he i. believed to have abit 3"0 -. Wil-.n 2. ls from fouls Caiman denth was donl,tle- causal bT bemor-' last evening t-. Huntingtun to attend the of Toronto: vun gin h loi iren; and .-m .-r '.d ml r okNii. died i.-.lir.4r
day of ilia's discussion with bis offi- men. Kven if he should n.-t 'omtimie S. O-sn-if .1. I:, fere - Allison of Tilton. ; rhsges an! i.sk inridrnt to a' gunshot funeral of the Utters m.-tber. Mrs. I.rotl.er. W ilbum Wed ..f rnd-rhiil. I t.e m the M -Ire 1,j.itsl l-r. . where he
-er. f plans for the tVdumbus rai.L She rails he bs enter.,! on a iUt r .f mr- j I'mpirr Smith of Vermont. Seorer - . -..Uii4 The state alleges that the Leigh- T!in) rbillit. who awav Thiii- funrtal ll ! held at t' I la Mist t-lmr. lal Iwn a-n. Ian. I. II a. native
' t ritit-r. Timer Hale. Time Two tone hrd s..vrsl timm at l . i lMm ,ih m Phillirsi Ir-sHlenoiii-h. a cranls.n. at Ks i tfi-roi.rmvi atlrn.Mtn I i.a ',.1 l.udord ani i lit-tiie .rviee ill a
said: H told hia officers how be would nle- killing of Amerieans in Meiicu.
aip nt the town of Columbus and then "To show apathy and tos intUkieiKj- 2) miaute f-enoia. Atteniaocr 100. nl3e.
also kit Lwt evenoig for Hun'.LTgt7iu v'd-sk, with bunal at Lsms.
.lj-saihurftti voliUitecr r;:aiect.
