THE WEATHER FORECAST. I m A Mlf. A 9 C W
Fair to-day and to-morrow; warmer to
morrow; light south winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 83; lowest, 67.
Detailed weather, mnll and marine reports on page 9.
VOL. LXXXUI. NO. 355.
YORK, SUNDAY, AUGUST
1916. Copyripht, 1918, by the Hun Printing ntn PiiMI.WiIih Annoclnllon,
56 PAGES. PRICE FIVE CENTS. J
BRITISH DRIVE
GERMANS BACK
ONllMILEFRONT
Take Thiepval Hidge at
llnyonct's Point; Town's
Fall Certain.
HAWS TKOOPS WIN
HILL AT POZIEKES
French, in Terrific Attacks,
Force Last German Out
of Maurcpas.
REGAIN FLEURY OX
THE VERDUN FRONT
Allies Get Foothold
Gnillemont Along a
Two Mile Line.
in
Ui.vdov, .MlR. 20. The largest und
most Important Itrltlsh Rains In the
Sninnie lighting In wrekH, along on
eleven mile front to n depth at some
points of COO yard Into the Oermnn
position", nre-announced to-night.
The. occupation of Thiepval by the
nmiah is made practically certain by
the storming nt the bayonet's point of
a rldije overlooking the town. f!en.
llau'.t troops ateo have taken high
ground north of Poilcrcs. Thla vic
tory In of great Importance In the op
erations ngalnst Martlnpulcli. The
British hnvo gained nn Immense ad
vantage In position. On the other aide
of Martlnpulcli nlsu the Hrltlsh took a
half mile of trenches.
These advances and others made
durlnp tho day are nlon- tho road to I steamship had been cancelled. They ex
uniii.h JI.i. rtih-r 1 press the opinion, on this account, that
Bapaume. the Britten objective. Other , he tampM had been requisitioned and
gains made near Hurdecourt earlier In
the day threaten the railroad town of
Comblei more seriously than ever, nnd
make n flanking movement on Pe
ronne, the French objective to the
aouth, possible ln tho near future.
Drive Last German Oal.
From Faria cornea the oillchil atate-
Kent that on the Somme the French
have driven the last Oermnnn out ofjlhH, ,hf, ci.,ma?. submarine camnalan
jiaurepas, wiuie on me enum iomii
the troopa of tho republic have re
gained the village of Flcury.
The main lirltlsh advance first an
nounced was nt an important part of
the front near Hurdecourt, where the
British and French lines meet and
where strong nttnckw have leen made
recently. Fighting here haa been des
perato all week, but the Allies have
been steadily pushlnR forward townrd
Combles.
Between High Wood (Foureaux Wood)
n, Hanlecotirt the Hrltlsh vlrove for
ward into the Village or uuuiemoni, nimim i.nrns leniu-mm miesm vioinuon m i
sained a footle there. The Oermnn I the Oerman Oovernment'e pledge t the ,
efflclal statement, telegraphed from Ber- American C.inernment regarding the
Iln .Ho. ,h.i "lh. Herman line waa .Inklna- nt vessel, lie flermnn submarines 1
shortened" at Uulltemont. Tho Hrllsh
silvsnie hero was on a two mile front.
The same British wave that entered
Gulltimont pressed forwnrd along u line
northward to midway between Delvllle
- ...
Wo,d and Ounchy and the orcnaras
jor I, of .ongu -val Mill '"r.,h"nh:
o.. . . . .1 ... 7,n. .then iSinuence American puiuic opinion tor tne
runs
llapauine. a hundred yards of Oerman
bench were captured.
I.nllls orlli of loanr,
1-1-1 and southeast of Mouquet farm
I 3n0 nrd advance was mnde. while
at point (urthest north of the Somme
oTinslve, between Ovlllers and Thlep.
tai there wa a hnlf mile gain.
H"s ilrie:ii Hie (iermans out of
ttn- Mnuiej'iis trench, which the French
....... ......... nn,,l.,.,l Ih... ra....l..il 1
11, ,in- i.m..,,. w r
ur.il ,troiig (ieim.in counter """''ks .
(VMumd to wrest from them trenches
tait.H.l xcsterday. The French also took '
.,, .. .i....o
- -1-. .11 .u.. i. I..--H-, ...
A despitrh from tho lteuter rorre
ih nt on the lliltli.li front In France
H)
"The week end lighting de eloped Into
'rr of the most Important and success,
full.iitie" nf the westein offensive. Not
eny is uir progiess toward the complete
triniTv nf the rldgn highly satisfactory
t'lt we hrtte cipturcd about 1.000 officers
ir men. m.uiv machine guns nnd a good
I'M of material. Several strong points
1-aie Urn destroyed and the way haa1
ttni prrpn red for further progress. '
'In the nelghhnihnod of the Irflpslc-
Mnulit ii,,, Mini,, ml farm and Martin-
r-jli 1 u., .,t .v.ttli n.iinl. Kiieress. The
" -ruaiiizeil .et.-nil strong counter
fa- - wln.h with one exception were
d -.rk.,i wok iirnv- w
.
"l.iirld lliilllr Picture.'
A Mlr n sminilcnt nt lirltlsh
ii'i'liuaiti's, tcligtaphlng this motnlng,
mvi i
'The thunders of the heaviest raln
I '-rm of th" reason Joined those of the
ttlllery and flashes of lightning from
t!i Ik t --ns vied with thn Hashes from
lr..- rniniih" ,,f manv giins In a most
Iui Id baiti. picture in thn darkness ofl
i i., iri b nr. this morning as a finale
t uri-deC- ngii-Fre.ieh attack f mm i
I o the Somme. The Clllly,
I -I i, i .inn- tontinues. making urtll
i' -ii .iim-,iit.
"I" i Itr c ih main ndviinco whs toward
flu l- i.-ii whi te they gained an Impor
kit .Mior. on rithtr side of the town,
lsn!f- jround on the right of High
Wijiij.
hi 'III-'ng the Inst Oerman out of tho
hi' house in the village of Fleury, on the
VmHuii front. I.i.l tili-ht. I ha Wench tin
P"l fie t.isk lo which they have clung
t"ini,.,Mv for days. The Hermans, In
'iMd detnehmentp. clung stubbornly tnl.im nre eontluulng lo i.ilse men, .
1 - t i-i ii Hie outskirts of the village, m(1 fll,n S to 30 years old who are In
1 Ii Uiey defeudtd with machine guns. I a t nniiitlon to bear arms have been called
inr it tne j-ieiidi nttiicKcii inese pu
pi i
.s 1 1 it i-i r-lrletice, winning their
iw.ml llteralb font by foot. '
l',tr, ..... 1.... !..... innl, .I.a l,.ul
uir inoinlng, they look the last I
Mill.,,, and immediately commenced to
ContlitUfd on BreoHd I'agt.
WHOLE ALLIED LINE
IN BALKAfjS FIGHTING
Forces Arc In Contact Along
Front of 155 Miles North
of ShIoiiU'R.
Pabis, Aug. !. The French apd Brit
ish forced In Urecce are In contact with
the Hermans mid Bulgarian along the
entire Halonlra front, according to an of
ficial statement Issued by the War Office
to-night. Tho Hntento Allies have taken
five villages.
The severe fighting now In progress In
Macedonia, In the sectors of lolran and
Fiorina and elsewhere, la believed by
mllltitry observers to be a prelude to
more extensive operation. The front
now extends from the Uulf of Orfanl, an
arm of the Kgean, the end of which la
alwut forty mltea northeast of Salonlra,
to Fiorina, a distance of 1SG mllei.
Ru tear Ian Troopa Repulsed.
RaI.onica, via Ixmdon, Aug. II. Hut
rarlnn troops which attacked the posl
tlona of the Entente Alllea alona the
Serbian frontier on August 17 were re
pulsed and thrown back upon their orig
inal positions after suffering enormous
losses, anya a Serbian official atatement
Issued to-day.
BERLIN SOCIALISTS BALDED.
Many Arrested at Clubs, gaga Ilea-
patch From Oeueta.
Jxinpon, Aur. 19. The premlica of all
Ilerlln Socialist clubs were raided by the
police on Wednesday lost., accordlna to
an 1'xchunne Telegraph Company des
epatch from Geneva to-day.
patch says, and It la reported that large '
luantltlrtt of peace manifestos ami
pamphlets were aelsed,
STAMPALIA, ITALIAN
STEAMSHIP, SUNK
Was fl.000 TflJlS (.fOSH 1111(1
Carried Guns Against
Submarines.
I-onpon, Aug. 19 The Itnllnu steam
hip Stampalla, which piles between New
York and Italian ports, has been sunk,
says a despatch to Lloyd's.
The New York agents for the Stam
palla said to-day that two weeks ago
they had received a cable message ad
vising them that all sailings of the
was In the service of the Italian Oovrn
ment. Jn this case she would have no
passengers on board.
The Stampalla was a passenger liner
of t.OOO tons gross, with accommoda
tions for 1,700 passengers. In common
with other Italian liners she mounted
guns for protection from submarines.
She was commanded by Capt. Ijvvarello.
There has been some Increase recently
In submarine activity. The naval expe.
of the 1'nrls 7Vnip wrote on Thursday
against merchant ships was again In full
swing. In accordance with the Oerman
note to the I'nltert Slates In February, In
which It was said merchant ships carry
ing guns could not be considered as
peaceful vessels.
LORD CREWE ASSAILED.
(eriitaue Reply to Charge of llreak.
low 1' llont Pledge.
Bratus (Hy wireless to Sayvllle), Aug
Is. When the Marquis of Crewe made
his recent statement In the lirltlsh House
... -
without warning he had no evidence
back of his words declares the -eml-
official Overseas News Agency In a
siuienieiii m-onj,
The Intention. It says, was apparently I
United States nnd Oermany and to
1 furtherance of lirltlsh designs.
The form In which the Marquis of
Crewe mad.- his statement Is characterls-. -j-ne report that Pope Benedict had Is
tic." snys the news agency. "He did not! KU,, instructions to the Italian cardinals
assert, but Insinuated, which pioves that i , pr,1v for the success of the Kntente
no evidence was back of his words. This1 .lllcs was denied by the Apostolic Dele
circumstance, however, makes his tin-1 gate.
sioken purpose clear, since he was satis- -j ,on-t believe It at all, although 1
fled with Insinuations. The sugnestlon have had no direct communication. 1
that the Germans might have shot at (ifny It absolutely. The Pope Is Impar-
survivors In boats Is consiueteu espe.
. .. ubtte nnd Is resented as coming
' ... ..... . 1 ......
from a nation wnicn proircm .or ...u..-
. n Rn(1 Kn Stephen murderers and
()ecorated the heroine of l.os.
""'l"i .h ,lliv of murder."
,..iii-,uri. - v
LLOYD GEORGE SEES VICTORY,
..ie..t. f, i-lr.t Time In Tho Years'
Mppera Are OrlppliiB."
London Aug 1!' In a speech to- the publishers met, by the Right Rev. J,
night' to "his fellow townsmen at Cried-'.!. Hartley of Columbus. Ohio, and the
eth. Wales. David l.loyd (leorge, Minister Key. John J, Hurke of this city
of War said- I "They say," remarked the Cardinal.
,.i ,ti.nM i.h the wnv thlmrs' "that a Catholic dally paper Is Imprar-
Kolng I feel for the first time in
two ve-irs that the nippers are srlpplng
. j,pfore on(j e will hear the crick,
w. 1)( to extract the ker-
.
nP.;. , , M , ,, Ut.re W1B
' " '' ' lr n 0ur dat . The Hrlt-
not u nnoiii n 1 '...,.
isli people ll-t'-e route grruu-r " , . , ., , '
',n;lI w', ,VPr timuKht pr.sslble. Thiee.them In. That Is the wisdom of the
nobody drc.iineil that (treat world. Let us not cease In season and
tir'li.ln would pour four millions of , out of season to contradict calumny after
young manhood Into the battle front,
The visror or our aeiimnu must ue nu-
cording to the measure of our sacrifices.'
PORTUGAL READY FOR WAR.
. Mobilised mid Parliament
' .......
I'ouvoketl for luesdaj.
I t m-. in. deeiee lias been
Issued convoking nn extrnonlluaty ses
sion of Parliament on Augiisl '.':.
I'Altls, Aug, la, ."Portugal Is to-day
n vast held of inanu-uvres," said Major
Norton Mattoa, the Portuguese Minister
of War, In nn Interview with the eorre.
spotident of the Purls Journal. "Portu
gal being In a stats of war with Oer
many and Austria, we are preparing
.an, .11 ..nr foreea to take this direct
.,,., ln the tight. .The mobilization or
arm. u.ns received with enthnsl.i.in
up.
l . i... ..I v.w 4tl.nl. T.rn.1..,
1 , ..i,.,!.,. An. 19lh Srillinitril tlr I.I...
Trahi. HI J:
Bn() 0Uthi,i. ma. lis nroaaway far
I ticket raits, Information. Atv,
CATHOLICS ATTACK
POLICY OF WILSON
Grrniriu Central Yercin Takes
Issue on Conduct of Af
fairs In 'Mexico.
HEADY FOH FEDERATION
Three Cnrdlnol, Many Arch
bishops and nishops at St.
Patrick's To-day.
Announcement waa made yesterday
that the Herman Catholic Central Ver
eln, which has been meeting In the Park
Avenue Hotel since the beginning of
Catholic week, has prepared n report
concerning the Wilson Administration
and its Mexican policy. This report will
be submitted to the American Federa
tion of Catholic Societies when the fif
teenth annual convention of that organi
zation Ik held In Madison Square Har
den, beginning to-morrow.
Kvery effort Is Using made by the
Vereln to prevent the report from hav
ing a political significance. The federa
tion which will dlacuss It k non-partisan,
It wai explained yesterday. Never
theless, a strong protest will be made
ugaltist the treatment which the Roman
V,th,"c orde" h,ve b"n rfc'lv,r,K ln
Mexico.
Unless the report Is changed sub
stantially before to-morrow It will criti
cise President Wilson for recognising
Venustlnno Carranta. On the other
hand. It was pointed out esterday.
cnarlea K. Hughes will not be given a
clean bill of health by the German Cath
olics. The atatement was made In be
half of the Vereln that any attempt to
uso the report as a document for Hughes
nnd against Wlbjon would be met with
n prompt denial. The sole purpose of
the report Is to create a sentiment which
will nmcllornte the condition of Oath
olics In Mexico and not to stir up po
llttcal prcjudlcu ugalnst the present Ad
ministration.
Cardlaal nihbona Arrive a.
Until the report la handed over by
Anthony Matre, national secretary of the
Central Vereln, Its full text will not be
made public. The prediction was made
yesterday that Its contents will cause a
sensation.
Another development In the third day
of Catholic Week was the arrival of Car
dinal (lllibons, Archbishop of Baltimore,
and the Most Itev John llontatio. Apos
tolic Delegate to The Cnlted States and
Archbishop of Mltylena. Itoth dtgnlta-
rles were met nt the Pennsylvania sin- .
Hon by the lllght Itev. Michael J, !A.
velle. Vlcnr Oenernl of the Archdiocese,
and by Father Carroll, secretary to Car
dlnal Farley, and escorted to the Cardi
nal's resldence(ln Madlaon avenue. Car
wrsiil Olbbons came from Southampton.
1.. I., and th Apostolic Delegate from
Washington. Itoth will he the guests
of Cardinal Farley. Cardinal O'Connell. (
trM.hl.hnn nt ttx.lm, ahr. nrrlva.l in
.1ll.llulliui VI 1-v.luii, w.iu Miintu w.t
Thursday, Is nt the Hotel Knickerbocker,
... .i.i . ia r . i 1 1
Wlin nulla la 1 .1 iniiii .iu w i ,, inu , - iui v ttriii-t,i mm . rir iiiiiiiiiif.
0,1.1 .1.. ... n. i..iIji...,i ,i. .1,.,, .u.. .......
nllht. "1 know that the city of New
York will extend to the mighty hosts
coming within Its gates the hospitality I
I?"?? l hl!r.t.B-, 3 "- .A." ,f?IL.7"m" '
week, every policy that we advocate will running toward them with n red flag.
be for construction and not for destruc I He explained breathlessly that he was '
1, I. f II,. l,.l. nf Ih.llh. hnk.m.n f fr-l-h. .. v.lh
Hon.
churrh and the country, nnd the spiritual
, .". --
uplifting of our people.
RrlnsTs Papal Blessing
Said Archbishop Ronsano: "In Catn-
ollc Week you may see the life of tne
,.:11P(.i. i New York and tho
S ar h-rl to wlu'
. . ' . . h . . n ,
n"S "" 'm' ,V ' '
nr.nn r . n.iv nrnerammn lor ins imuri.
fJur wrk , on, . lnUr..tnff t lho
chltrrI, ,t also Important to the country,
W(l nrf ,ercsted for the moral and
.nlrltual pnod of tho neonle,
, v,ii, remarked at this point
li.-(,uin hlln a communication from the Pope
1n federation.
Ills Holiness sent his blessing," said
,ni Apostolic Delegate.
tnt. They uro all his children."
Cafhnlle Dally Paper gusaiested.
Meetings of the Catholic Press Asso
ciation and of the Central Vereln were.
held yesterday, Cardinal Farley nd
dre-sed the publishers In their inbrnlnif
session and tide! them of his hope that
an Kngllsh Catholic dally newspaper
might some day be brought out In this
country The Caidlnal was accompanied
lo Hie New York Catholic Club, where
tleable. They used to say the same
thing of a Catholic encyclopedia, but
they were mistaken. I believe the critics
of the Catholic dally newspaper also are
m.vtntfen.
i "From tho methodii of our enemies wei
can learn much. With persistence they 1
,,. f, n.rnio.i I iiiiuiiis rni.i.intf
culumny, even at the risk of being
thought monotonous. Don't care what Is
Sfild. Keep at It.
"My own experience has taught me the
value of this course. There was nn old
.-nliimiii nhoiit the origin of the title nf
the church on the grounds of which st.'dened us he reached City
.i..i'u I'uiiioitiiii ui.'imtu ii uiiu -iiit onlv ten pounds.
lo have been stolen from the city hy our
fl lends the tRilltlclans. T.tnt was deuhd
manv limes, but every six mouths It was
pealed. Finally 1 had an abstraci : of
ir.r tun1 noii. i, in,-1, . ,, ,-, .i.. . ii'iii.M
to newspapers all ever the country
I
nlso had a copy framed and hung In the
cathedral."
Moelnl Service Dlaeusseal.
A meeting was held yesterday morn
ing In the cathedral college hall, nt which
were present representatives of the Fed
eration, the Central Vereln, the Catholic
Press Association ami tne national i.ain-
ollc Charities Conference. Social service
iik u means of, rarrj lug on the Catholic
faith was discusiied by many aienkers,
Some olijectlons were raised, however, by
Hie charities conference avalnst permit-
ting the fcdetatlon to take over the
, KUld.nce of this new movement. Rlshop
Continued on Fourth Pag,
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SECTIONS
AS FOLLOWS!
Pares
FIRST General Newi, Auto-
mobiles 12
SECOND Sporting, Kenneli . . 8
THIRD -News oT the Resort,
Drama, Fai!ucr Real
Eitatt, Sthooli', Gardens 10
FOURTH -Pictorial Mtistine
FIFTH
SIXTH
Saeettl Feature Section ,
EditorialJFereiin, Booki,
Queries. Financial, Prob
lem!, Cheu . . . .
Tots
Rttiiti or mittitaUn uAe it net re
(Hh tU fAeie mthnt wiH rjit a
ftm it " Tin San" hy neltfylni ih Puh
lltithn Dipartmni el tnct by the phont
2200 Btikman) and mtutnl mtltni
utll k promptly JoncatM tj prnttUt.
PORPOISES HERE;
SHARKS ALL GONE
Beaches Are Safe When the
Game of Leapfrog at Sen
Is Hcing Played.
Sia tliaT, N. J Aug. 19. Persons
who Khars the common belief that man
eating sharks and porpoleea arc never
found In the same waters are aure that
bathing along the shore Is sate again,
for the porpolsea have come. A big
school of them was first observed at
sundown yesterday by a visitor at th
Beach House. They were nlnnit a quar
ter of a mile off shore and moving In
the direction of Spring Lake, where the
first shark fatality occurred In July.
From the hotels the black mass of , wcur( , f h fn t ,(
caNor lng fish seeme.1 to be at least half u ltrUyrii ,,, Al,mlnlstrnllon
m" ' circumference, t was so , ,,, irrl)ilrn, , nrrnl,KB fr ,. r,.
;T' "ih,hM Ji.Si.",,,J o.-;',1, of f" WMn, force, since both
and. Through g asses the porpolsea , ,ate ,, w lK.llir,M1.nt offl(.all urp
cou d bo seen pla ng leapfrog I understood to share the views expressed
Fishermen say that up to yesterday i . ,
ho tiornolse has been s.s-n here all sum-'
mer. They usually coins north late in
June or early In July, following the mi
grations of mackerel and other small
fish on which they prey.
The New Jersey State Superintendent
of Fisheries, who has a summer home
here, says that no "man eating" (blue
nose or white belly) shark remains In
regions frequented by porpoises, nnd
that when the playful cetaceans appear
the sharks, whleh are normally cow-
rdly, swim madly for deeper waters.
MOTOKISTfl CATCH ROBBERS.
Oatraer Slolra Train and Mare
... . . , . .
nandlfs Arreated at Taxedo.
XtnwOTi .in M 1 10 v,Hnb -n 1
tli'Utin lnll I'rnntl lMs.ll Wl, At Until,
s-'s ..unnx. ,i, ,.u,tfc-
cliilr, motored through nine States look-
1-.- . ...i.. ... ...i i
State. New Vork, they encountc-ed ad-,
venture-real, nickering reel advcnlu-e
to wit :
- " '-, ,.,,i iiiv-i
had Just passed and which wns belnu
looted by three bandits who held the
crew In check with revolvers.
He had
managed to drop off and hopd to get
word to Tuxedo ahead of the train,
The Montclalr tourists started for
Tuxedo at a nara liiyiliir.i ni.- i..-
motive. The highway parallels the rail-
road. Gradually they overhauled the
trnln. crept up from caboose lo locomo-
live and finally left the train behind.
They rearhed Tuxedo In time to get the
train stopped and the robbers arrested
The bandits were caught In a car laden
with silk.
BOYCOTT HUGHES LUNCHEON.
I'nlon Walters Refuse tn Serve at
an "Opru Shop" (lab.
Kan Francisco. Aug, 15 Co'on wait.
ers refused to-day to serve a luncheon i
t-le,. to floitl. t- 1 f ., ui,
Presidential candidate, at the Ha ' mT M"k , .i"""' ,1" ,f"r,
Cisco Ommerclal Club because the club 'l"i"1' nt " ,-' 'l'-"'-
exhibits in Its window an open sltop')Uln their honor The ball was the
card as part of a fight being made here1 M ev".' r'""l. and
l... i ,,t.-.i . .. I wns iittended bv more lll.-in l.IIAil inAm.
-"""-'"-e on in.'.
A request was sent bv the clnh mn.
agemen " r the waU?rs' , aHklng tm
slx.y-nve waiters ? "til 't M . was re used
! The Pacific Onist Walters' Association
oiicKro up ine action or tne locnl wait-
ers and pickets were sent In the Com-
merclal Club entrance to warn union
waiters awuy. tine of Ilie large down.'
town open simp cares sent lis entire
crew to the relief of the Hughea
luncheon,
CROSSES CONTINENT IN 70 DAYS
John II. Heatt at nil gets .New llee-
nrd In Pedestrlnnlam. 1
Pint Apgi.PMM. Aug. l!l. John H.
Sj-ott rf"cn1 the City 1
ng. end ng his walk from
Me Is the champion long
Mall this morn -
San Francisco,
chaniplon long distance biker
of America.
Scott crossed the continent In seinnlv
days, live hours and thirty minutes, ul-
most ten days faster than any other mini
haa mnde the distance. J I Ih V-4 mile
walk f I run Hun Francisco to Philadelphia
beats the records of Joint Knnls nnd I'M
ward P, Weston, the former champions.
Scott, who Is .ill, looked fit nnd har-
Hall. He lost
"Prayer and persistence did l," he
said. "1 used both frequently."
MRS, j, B WALKER A SUICIDE,
Wife nf Hilltop of Xelentlllf mer.
lean" Dies lij tins,
Mrs. J. Hernard Walker, wife of the
editor of the Nttrntlflc .liiiciiVnn, was
found dead In a gas tilled room In her
home, Twenty-eighth and State streets,
Flushing, on Friday evening. Coroner
Voxel repotted her death ns suicide.
lleautlful,' accomplished, 36 years old
i Mrs. Walker for months past hml been
I t-ufferlng f-.' nelnncholla. Itecentlv
she sought relief lu a sinitin Inm, ie
turning a few days ago. Mi VUil'ie,
was culled to Manhultaii l-'ilduy to al
tend a business meeting. When he ie
turned home he found his wl'e wa
prone on the kitchen Moor, the Jets of toe
(m cook etove being fully open.
Premature Disclosure of Fnn
ston's Advice Will Not
Chance Plans.
OFFICIALS ASKED FOll IT
Itecominendation to lie 11
flnldo for American Com
mission in Parleys.
Washington, Aug. 1. A tecum
mendatlon from Oen. Funston that the
American troops be withdrawn from
Mexico was contained In a recent report
on the military situation made at the re- H" threatening wits the deadlock yes
quest of the War Department '"' de- "rdny lietween the board of directors
signed for use of the Joint commission
nhlch will discuss border problems.
State Department officiate do not at
tempt to disguise their reuret over pre-
mature publication of Oen. Funston'si
conclusions, but they Indicated "-'ay
mm 11 wouin not cans any alteration in
plans.
Ulllcla's realise. It Is understood, tint
the most pressing matter for discussion
by the commission, from the Mexican
viewpoint, will lie the question of with
drawal of Oen. Pershing's expeditionary
force. To furnish the American com-
mlssloners with full Information tlen.
Funston was asked to express hs views '
on the military aspects of the expedition,
There Is every Indication that the com-.
mirsloner and later the Administration
were expected to abide by the recom-i
mendat ona of the chief military ndvteer
on temU-r m-itter.
Publication of the fact that Oen. I nns-
ton believes It wlw to withdraw the ,
troops may hamper the American com-,
mlsslonerv, sonie ninclals think, In ob-
tnlnlng whatever guarantees they m.iv
.m. ' " .
There can be little doubt. It N now
said, that the wlthilr.iu'iil will be
promptly agreed to u hen the commission
meets the conferees, then turning their
attention to tile drafting of a piotocol to
cover future bonier operations, Invest!-
gallon of the causes of bandit raids and
such other matters as thev may wish to I" a trllte that will nmnunt to some-
take up. thing."
j No Intimation came from the While That was the situation plcturej In the
House to-day a to when announcement course of the day by the union leaders
of the American membership of the com- to Theodore Housseaii. secretary to the
mission might he expected. In view of I Mayor, when they called on him about
Secreiarv I.instiig'a recent assurances noon to ascertain If he had received any
to Kllseo Arredondo. Mexican Ambaesa- word as to whether the Mayor would re
Idor Designate, that the commission could' turn to the city. They told Mr. Hous
, bo assembled very soon. It waa believed ! t'1 ,heJ' 1"ld rnt telegram, on the
to-night Ihnt the nanus of the c minis. Previous evening to both Mr. Mitchel nnd
.sIoiits would be made public earlv next
I n-eel'
MeeretArv t.in. wh. u'ltl l,rt,1 ihn
lleleslltloil. lias alrendv .TCCellti'.t Ilie mist
,
and as soon ns his associates have been
namefi Hml their vl.,u-a ns i. tim in.,1.
-
inr oliice necrrtnlneil so .Tirirrm.nl mi
ul nt will be reached by Mr. I,an-
"n" r- Arredondo.
HEAT HITS MEN AT CAMP.
Temperature- I. I in lies, .ml ssml.
.. ....
nii.irrniii .in mnr iinnae.
PLsTTHiirnn, N. Y Aug, 19. To fullv
r",ll, t"" ,,e!'t "f to-day on,, must lme
!,0'n f'n rie. nt IMntlsburg
barracks with the Kighth train-
fe''"'"!. which liegan rllle practice
tuts morning. rue men were touted
from their rots nn hour earlier than
u,ml; ?' 4 " , l,,-l- "'' "t 8 they
'"rrl";'1 ,'" xh rlln.', wh'rr ""V T"
I n,nlnf'' thnuiglioiit the d.i Ataoclrn-'c
",r "oeiniouieier regis
tered llu, nnd the sand upon which the
men were compelled to lie while shoot
ing was even hotter than the nlr.
While the members nf the Klghlh
Regiment were on Ilie ramie the Ninth
was In the field marching and niameu
vrlng and many of the men dropped by
the wayside, overcome by the beat None
of the cases were eilous. however
After a strenuous day In the Held mid
on the range the members of the camp
took a plunxe in the cooling waters .if
Like Clinmplalii and then im.-iln donning
, n. V,,.",, , lr ' " ,
I vlsltoi s nt the hotel as wr as by many
"
rl Id--hn, ,nv, commander;
Major Law ton. ennip .qu.ii te, master, and
' ir-nrn, ...i-i.-n, -iuui i-ruin-in,
have Veen through th-surrounding conn,
try foi the nan few da s selecting site-
'or the camps which the members of the
two training regiments will m-cupy while
on the practice march and inniiieiivres.
JERSEY SOLDIERS HURT.
nlid "liirm Wrecks Cnmp Ilnllil
liitta at lloilalas, trr.
Dot-iit, ts. Arlx, Aug 19. A leirlllc
whirlwind of sand hit the ennui here of
1 the Fifth New Jersey Infantry this
afternoon, wtecuing ntiiiiilngs nnd slight-
.ly Injuring sevetal guardsmen,
As the two frame mess nrd kitchen
I buildings wete blown down. John M,
Hattersley, a cook, was caught under
the debris. He wns trying to snM- Sergt,
t.-...lArllf flori frnn, fnlllt,,. tl,lt.,rd
,rWhaTCara
Durv are from Orange. Capt. Ornham
Mrdiegor. also of Orange, anved the
dchrl. of Company A of Pnss.ilc from
lire by extinguishing n pot of burning
Hatterslev wns scalded by the overturn!
Corn. Puill Met man of Ratlery A of
Kast Orarge died to-day of dysentery
'lit the basti hospital. Ills was the only
rase among the Nciv Jersey troops.
GEN. WOOD AT TOBYHANNA.
Muat uf Yale H.xtlerlrs to lie .lent
B-M-k Hume.
HTBOi-tisnl-ito, Pa., Aug. 19, Mujor.
Osn. Wood, commander of the Depart
ment of tho Dist, visited the 1'nlted
Slates artllh-iy camp of Instruction at
Tobyhannn last night and addressni the
officers nnd nu-n.
It Is tmdeistooil HiHt one of the Con-net-Hi
ut butteries and those from ,ew
I,.... unit Miirvland will soon ,Unri
for the Mexican isiniei q lie oiinr Vale
batteries will be sent home, It udi
despite the fact that J5 iwr cent, of the
members went to see active service,
M!mm TO
TT Tl X TT Tl aTfn TT1TITTT1T TTlTt TIAT.
ritCiOiuiiim uiNiitiumu run d nuuit mi;
BOTH SIDES IN FINAL APPEALS TO PUBLIC
CARMEN THREATEN TIEUP
OF EVERY CITY LINE MONDA Y
Union Employees and N. Y. Railways Co. Officials in
Deadlock Mayor Mitchel and Oscar S. Straus Sum
moned to Avert Strike on Green Car Lines.
( the New York Hallways Comimny
(green surface cars) nnd the leaders
of the carmen' union "over the dls-
chargo of fourteen conductor nnd
motnrmen that Mavor Mitchel ond
chairman Oscar H. Mtraii of the 1Mb.
Ho Sorvlcc Commission will leave Uulr
vacation ramps to-day and hurry buck
to tho city.
Mayor Mitchel, a citizen soldier at
I'latlvburg, nnd Chairman .Str.uii, who
with rod nnd l'armaeheene ltellp Is try
lug to lure the rainbow trout ln Maine,
are both expected to nrrlve In the city
by 7 o'clock to-morrow morning. They
will hold conferences nt once with
i,0sld-nt Shouts of the Hull ways com.
j,n' all(, ,,, nlon lenders,
Tu tl(I,0l.k ,olv,.n ,K. two ,,,,
r,m!,IHl, lllP lltno Vesterdav as on the
preceding day. The company's otllclals
,,, tl,cy nr,. nilng to arbitral- the
,,htii as to whether the fourteen m u
convicted of home offence In the Magls.
trates' courts In lonnectlon with the
strike should be permitted to retain their
Jobs, The strike leaders held to tho
promle In the strike settlement agrte
in-nt to the rff.ct that hII the men should
be taken bark to work "without preju
dice." Men Are f.ii)nl In Comrades),
""Thi" men on the New Vork Hallwa.-s
uitl Mrike If their comrades :ue not re
turned to woik In accordance with the
stillie agrceim ut." jfnM Iiuls 1'ildlger,
nttorney for the union. "A strike on th
green csr lines iik-hos also n strike on
the Third Avenue Hallway system. Hie
e!e.itd and the subway lines. It will
.Mr. Straus saying tne ntu.ition was so -
Ii1v.,.lX,,",r
sarv 111 the city
MUlll II Mlygerntd, Jlr,
Frldlser
. . .
,"ur" , ' "rnm,'r 1
American I'Cd'-ratlOn or l.'ll'Or,
of the
wero
. , . .. , ..
amonir the callers on Mr ll"tl.o.tl.
They told Mr. ltouss.au that the ques-.
tlon nt Issi ie col Id ''c'' !
'"' ' V , '
J . Mian, did not return to the c.ty by
Monday and ; ' ' '
making the s,mpa i. y live u . to It - ".-.
luellt II tllk- WOUllI Ucoldercdoll Mor."
dy night.
onfereiire l.asis
inn Honrs,
were with Mr.
I lie siriiie iratier'
ltoiiseau for more than two hour.. Both
dining and after the confetence Mr
oussenii tried to get the Manor oil the
long distance telephone and lay the,
i. illation before him. He succeeded
nnaliy in g'ttmir tne .m.ij t to tne ie
pnone.
Mr Mitchel said be would h-ae
I, to-tilelit and he Instnirted his
the cami
recreliiry to n't In comiiiiinlcatloii witu
Mr Straus lu the wilds of Maine. Me
1 01 tl .M r nuns-.-.in ... .,- i"'
nearest lo Mr. Straus, wlm N at Hlg
Island Pond. Me., and hae courier go
Inlo the woods with tin- lelegrim so
that Mr Straus (ould be tn the city to
morrow When Mt Pllrger.ild lift the City
Hall lie wns nsk.-il wbetli. r I a- was get-
Ims a "vquan- deil
lie an-'werrin "I
ntii not sumv; th"' we are getting a
siii.ire deal, but I do say Hint we win
Ki t a S il lie deal '
Mr I'ltrger.ild alo made it cl. nr that
his men would not wait very lonj, be
cause, he ihiiiged, the company Is Im
porting strike breakers from tne west
,,, H making every preparation for a
strike Some of the- union leadcts also
'"",rl"' ' v '" "",
board of .l!r;elors o he IPilIw a s con.-
pnt'v 1 ' ", "r ' '?". : ' "l. ' ' '
..-i..-
while several other uire tors .irt eater
l" back up Oener.il Manager lle.ney in a
strike
I nliiii Pile. It Ull Denin nits.
There wns another conference jester
day between Mr. Medley and James 1
oniiekeiibiish. nttorney for the company,
i i.tiloo 1.i(t,-rH atid a committee of
Vew York Itallwavs employee. This
Vork Itallwios employee. Tl.l-
confereiii
Shouts
letter
union. Mr. Shouts had designate
nr,iav morning al 1 1 o'clock its lb.- hour
1
SELIGMAN CRITICALLY LLL,
Worse
llniiUcr, till. Tttl.es Turn fur
.
,,""K nranvn
,., llnANC,',. N J . Aug. m.Jame,i
Sellgman of the banking firm of J, .4 .
Sellgman of New York Is cilllcally til at
' bis Oce ,n avenue home, "te physicians
said lo hold out little hope of his ie-
cm, cry . . , , , ,
i Mr Sellmiiaii. who s In his ninety,
thlnl veal, has been retlously III for the
pilfl tw J weeks. A
took Place lo-nlght,
linnge for the worse
Mr. Sellgman Is the
oldest Long llinnch .ottacoi'
WHITRIDGE COMING HOME.
He Thinks Life la Much More Jtilct
In Cnulnnd.
IiNPON, Au-i. 13- Frederick W. Whlt
rldge, president of the Third Avenue
Railway Company, sailed for New York
to-day. Ah soon as he urrlven In New
Vork' 11 meeting of the boatd of direc
tors villi be called In discuss Ilie relent
rtrlke III New Vork ami V stiln stri
, be In 111 rded hlr "HI" Mr Wrltrldise
rain ne mu ten wiun i" "-i - i"
Voik. He wished he could May III Htm
I lnd. he mid. for life hem U muvh
quieter than in America.
DROP WILSON
for the confere ice to which he had dele
gated Mr. Hcdley nnd Mr. Quackenbusli
to represent the company.
The union men on going 1 1 the confer
ence said they were keeping the appoint
ment merely as n matter of form, ns
they had drcldid not to discuss tho de
mands until nfur the other point In re
gard to the d scharged men had been set
tled by the company taking the men back
to work.
Mr. Fridlger was !Ni flrt to speak on
behalf of the union !. i.. He r-firnsl at
oi! e to the strike settlement agreement.
"Our demand for tho reinstatement of
the men has been presented to your
board," he itald, addresrlng Mr. Medley
and Mr. Quackcnbush. "and still remains
undisposed of. Mr. Quackcnbush told
me that It was not his desire. If It was
possible to nvold It, to go fully Into a
conference this morning with reference
to the irrlevauces of the men. but simply
to get together and outline a courso of,
action. In iew of tho fact that the re- ....
Instptement of the men la still undeter- U AsiiiNiiTov, Aug. 19. A Junction o
mlnel we do not desire to go ahead with the is.suo upon which depends the
any discussion of the grievances pre- . .. . ,Pi, ,,n nil tha rail,
eented. We are here principally because declaration "f "trlko n he m
we arc required to be bete hi the strike rorids of the country was made to-day
settlement agreement." by president Wilson and thlrty-thref
Adjourn 1'nlU a P. M. Tuesday, j railroad executives after the latter had
The Conference accordingly was ad-1 Intimated they did not favor .Mr. Wll
Journed until Tuesday nft'rnoon nt 2 son ns tin arbitrator.
" ""Men. president of the ChU
and the union had appealed to the Mayor cagn, lliirllngton and Qulncy Jt illroad,
and Chairman Straus. The "")''" 1 spokesman for the tratlle meiir'arsuea
ers howeer, p dnted out that their up
peal wa rot for arbitration. , ,h"t the- elcht hour day. to which tho
Tin- New York Hallways Company i'r,sldent reetnn Irrevocably convs
gax-e out a .Jm n.e Vinf 4 Iniptv.ttlcahlo In railroading
j ;;;:" ;. t,e,g;es,,;o,;Rresefn,th;r;ev: "M .M lit. ro, are willing for the
acres to 'he committee. It was explalne.l interstate ( ommerce Commission or
that l.s46 otes out of R.ioo had been imy other disinter, ie,i mdy to nrhte
east The delegates selected to i tiiisti- , trati- the whole (ll stlon.
tute a general committee follow: , Tho deadlock between tho Chief
. v,,liieerliiK llenirtmrnt I heodoin '..,., . . ..... ,.
......... ,,.,,,. ii, ,11..,,, i I, irl -
il'ltne-i. trnekniall.
Car Knulpmeiit Department Frank .1.
nisner. blacksmith. Sixth avenue simp;
William lllmey. shifter. Ninth avenue
car house. William J. Kane, carpenter.
Ninety-ninth street shop; John Mcllrecn,
brnkeman, sixin avion- i.u m-u.-.
1 ' J ', Klftlcth stre.-t and
SUthnviniieVubHtatlon . ,
Motive l'owir Depnrliium i nomas
I Traiisport.illon I vp.it inient oniiio
tors CiMick D D-l. Sixth .ien,ie; .1.
, i .i,L.. l-iuirteentb Mrvet, l.iwience
,. ,, i.. .... . j, diii .1. 1'av.inauuli.
pihili uvMitie : Anton II. linger,
llroad-
y j.,,,,,,, K,vl, ,..
' l-Tarik Keller. Foui'h nv-
Mototnien-lluel. 1
.... -ntrton aM-iiue :
HVrtHie.
oole. Ilioni oy:,
Tlinmns Kltia. SixtU uenue , i'"'"" , In-nul "mm iiudoubttdlt Ii..- t'u ,.uu
Henderson. Hro.idwny . .lolin .leen. ,,., f ,,(. jllwlrt , f , ,
Hlghth avri.ue. ft e M.'li. Clchth ..- , a,r.
nue. Thomas Cullaiiiui. Fourth ,ieiiue;(
Marry MeClny. lA-xiugtni .
.Hwltchmrii-Wllll.iin nr -' nio.iu-
wny. and Pntrlek Dugiiu. !. xliitton.
riilnntit Hlilleiiles sliitemeiit.
Vh,.n Ilie iitilli-UIH'1-nli 1,1 V..IS Jlion 1
, ,1K f ,, un U;ib rs be i idlc-tle I
i ,. .,i ,i, ni si nlnee." -,. he, "onlv
..i',,,. (),ie-third of the ellcible men on-il
, , w, , v(Jt.
I....I...1...I
1-1, 11. ,.--. ----
enaliiecnng, car
oiilinmnt and motive
.,OBvr d p.11 tmriits. with which we have
,,ti,rK to do. The cniim-n -ire t'" per,
Cl,n, f,rrniilred and th. did not vote, i
I tiu tompanv ndnilte Itself that moie,
- (nan .liliil enipioj ee- .n-i i'i ,
The union commute., calb-d on WIH -
Inm i Wo..l, pr. si.i.-in m inr
and (.'neons County Railway t nmpani.
jestiidav with demand- r..r n.-tier
worklmt londM'-.iis and higher w.im-i.
There nr.- varlnc p-port- ns. lo what
happened, t'ne story Is that Mr Woo.i
declined -to have anything l- d- wltn
the conint t!.-.-. on the tnni'id th.it the
emplo.ied men already bad el.-, led a
committee to r. pr.-o-nt tin uiselves
torney Fi linger, noweve .
ii,,. ..on.mlitee was received cn-liaii.v
C II Severs, ft ti org.mlr.er of tin- cai-'
men's union. .ild he .uc-mipauli d the
union comuittei- ol tin- cntnieii em-.
)ioed be the Kl.hmonil I.lkht and
Povver Coinpanv I" dlnuss with gen
eral Mnnngi-r ' 1. Rand the di-ni mils
made bv the e-tiplo ee.
Ml Seveis said the conference went
nbing on a fr!endl basis, nnd that an ,
in.-! cc mi nt vi as t.-aihel o-i
, ertaln dt
' . . .. ..... ........ i .1.1 ,idi,in
in.iliiis. nut nn" i-iiiii-
Ulltll Illl. Ulll'l llireuiiK r..i
Wednesilay i '
II was sain J .-lo
man,' ' of the no ion on tin- nit. i n.irongn
will be made on Monday Pi.-,dei,t W
i 1
Malum of the caimeiis iiimin is t
ported lo bo on
'"C Z U,.
bis wi here 1' ,1.
tin niun is
BORDEN FLIES MILE A MINUTE,
' Mnkea Trip lotiu .lersej I oust n nil
0,,'r
. R-msov. N ... Aug. 1,-1 an, S.
Ror.len of Now Ymk mid oceunh- took
, ,,. , , , ,,,, , w Wl..lt
i.-hv
llurkcvs hilion. iq lane now i the . . .h, v
Rl'MSON. N J . Aug. 11'. Howard S.
roast ov'ir Sealn Isht, Long 11
U "I"'
' Asian y IM.k und a fai nt-
Ma -it ilok
on - I r
I "r- "'
Mr lloiib n d-ove t li- -1111111"
I'l 111 If
ami was iiccoiupaimtl b.v i".il!iut
Wehatcr, a piiifesslminl iiiialm not be ii--on m-
, .. .. .,.,.,. Ill' Clldi il th it iblllllg tin-p , -ri t h
In the afternoon Mr IMrd.-u llcw ovorl,, ( ,. , , .,Utu,i i-
to the Ruiinon Count i Club tor 11 polo m bit atl be itic th. emplnvii-s would
match game and during tho itfleino.in 1 ""' '"'"I'1 m"tho. . that il-...y wem.
Ryard liomliilck of N-c Voik was taken ' -mfionte.l .v 1 siui.alon and not In .,
for his (list (light. Ann the polo match ' Pimclple. and that, speaking tin inii.niin,.
Mr. Hurdcn llcw bauk to his estate ,l( '' piople, Ins only purpose was to avoid
n '..,.. 1,1 stiiko and tim dlsistor It wiun 1 mean
1 ' 1 ' j 10 the lountry.
Poller CMplitln Retires. '' "" 1 ''!"" ',',"lh' h less
' ,1.11.1111. Ila.v were giave 1, .ic-liranoi-
.apt. HW.-II Ro.l'le of Ilie 1 1 I lit Ii- when tin) left th" Whit. It-is.- iml 11-
nvemio I'ollie station, llnjokl.Mi, woo 1 am ,i -nak- aov ,ii' h-i wlin-n
was .ippoltited to the di-pa, 11.11 1 ' in no. in ,,11,1111' iMn-iloi 1 ,.,itii ihu i'
a id l-oeatm- 1 .1 1 it .1 1 n in i'"ii
retired CoiimilM icif r Wind, ,r 1 I
Ills rellletueut jeeteid.it on 111. i.ip
tiiin's personal appluallon. 1
AS ARBITER;
ft TTATTTi TV 1 17.
Chief Executive and 33
TniMo Heads Admit Un
breakable Deadlock.
fOMI'A.VIKS ritEFETi
INTERSTATE HOARD
White House Summons bM
More "Western Trans
portation Chiefs.
LAST STAND PAULEY
SET FOR TOOIOIiROW
Managers Sny Unions Usfl
Coeivion for "Enormous
Wage Increase."
, " ' '"l ooiiii ma
nppeur.s to be unbreakable. The last
card Ls all but plaicl. Hnth tho Prcal
dent iitnl the railway olllclals. taking
tho i-asc out of the confetence room
nnd nbiindiiuing the secrecy which has
prevailed in the negotiations up. to
, i-- n'm um-h i-mi in
t. i - i iinii; hilll. III! ni.s liciin-
Itig their ivspeiine posltloiiK .iml urgu
Itu tin- Justice of tin lr can-. vs.
Tin tli'i t -tlir.-.. ia!lwa pn-sidents
'.aid tln ir f,ni,,.-il imiir lidine Hie Pres.
lit. -ii, ,it .)-., V'l,l,A ii.,,... . ., .. ., .
j ,,,, .). ,i,ir!( llf ,i , witii.. ii ,ii . ..'-.'....Ii
,, ,., statement w.. i.Mie.l
I l,v th., l-iesl.l. lll il... l.irl l.u .1.1,
M,,,,1(,r, f ,iu, 1,,,,,,. ,, .,
1 Hi,ro.1( Hi nd. fP rliliinii.....
The milw.i) i i iitlves le
aibltr.-tlou an-l Inter In I'.
Mil 'I I .lllll l. I e w Ith (he '. s
Issued a Miili-m-nt de'li-l'-r
Hole and de I irlng that al!
In en a- -ni.d she-1 In fie w n
in u f-.-r
1 a efter
- d, i-l ,il ..
tl'-le int..
t 1. it .' is
f 11- iee-
fill adjustment nf labor
mint u..,,tl . r..li
-lltfoN ( t ' 'es
"V - I'ltl llltte-
' -' ' """
.... lir.M.-lit llrt
Thev nr. .1 . te.i n, 1....
their pan of their right to arbltrato
.0iil.l 111 11 1; (,nly the li'ulnnlne f ,0.
K.:,,,ir,.il i,i,r-,, nttimpts to n--i. .o.-ivlun
n t,t, pi ,r(. f j-.icelul methods of set-
iuiik Hi-puies,
1 i-,,n Kl;
clr- uhi'l.itii e does thn
small hope f..
the portentous piohleni .lepi nd There,
p,y f , ,a!wav eeeut.n. di Mailt as
t. , , ..,..
,,r( ,,,., .,, p,,,,Ml,u ,, Mll(lav
( fl Jf .nould
decide to vl-id to the Pr.-slde-if de.
( IM in,i at ,!, M )J nm lf h(
,,,., ,. ,(,,. ,1, lemma thswavls
, till up, M
Ilvnlentlv counting upon this ,, nil.
it y. tne i 'i .--iii.-nt eiinimoiKil eigiitv -font"
other r.tllwnv es. Cl.tives, most of wholll
lu'eslde over W.-st.n, r.i ,n. ns, m
U'ai-hliigton. Cntn tli,.y mnve the bn-t
tip in t lu- collttovelsj will III. I ,e t.tkell.
Th. l,lii 'lliooil, bowevii-, that tha
I'i.si ni will bung them to i ij other
i onrltv on than tint aln.nl readied
MieeesMiei bj tin. bci.iiil of railway
lii.tnnttiis ..lal III,- thlrtv-Hit allwiiy
i 1 - - iuui now in ii .iii.i'i.i-iu M veiv
S1,llt
Tin- r-llroad ollleials Iheit -ihes n.sorl
that n-aib nil of the rv.vimve olllcliilt
Ili-ln.le.l In the list .,.. t t
, ,i, i.. i . . ,V '. . J
, 1 . 1 , " "
" . ,. " , ., '
...... .,, , oinrr
, stand tli-.n hnl . ,, ni .' ,, '
r-niiMi in, in lien 111,11111., Ileo 111 ma
Iveil I llil
onnteil
kites.
Mi Mel 'I'biil lloiids win V leltl.
To all appeal. m .-s the o. ision or the
tn.-s .-. in,.voe.,i,i(. m u: i,, thoia
l a vague foiling that tin railtmd
h .id' nil mat. -ly w '11 gu. w.,j alter
' . Olivmi f Ilie ......11- that the ,.-s ,.11,111 V
, ,ets ,, ,, ,- PieMdon, ' Mu,'
, l"'nd upon the off, l of the pui
, ireiit m id.. i.,.,lav mil . . v.
'
, h(.1( .. ,,,
tests upon the Piesltleut. .Mu- h w 111 do.
off, I of the public state.
iolpinentl
1 it in,,.
HI on I ,
til lake tile I.e.' ills.. I.i (
- ' ow n --iniilde' s I 'i a-ldi 1 -, 1 :
,''.-.it.v.s ; u, ., 11-
o 1 .11' e -
,11 i e-
will 1. tie v
-. it vv 11
.1 I,- 11 1' e . 1.0
"If a strike I'oines the publn
1,1 i 1 , e .1 .11 1 i'. nn il siep
.-' 11, 1 t ill e in iid'i tied Hi 11 tliolr
'1 ill in .ipp.-aied Impi-h- fr i'u any
point of vltw, and that they were con-
I
81
si
111
1
Ii
. MM.1sj
