WEATHElt
r.iB to-i?ay Avn to-borbow.
\\ \IIMI K TO MOKROW. I.I4IHT \
MU TH IIIMK*.
I _ll Brporl ?n Page 12.
jMimiBrfe
>s%amm^ r.a-cf *n J,
9Erttntiu
CIRCULATION
Over 100,000 Daily
Net Paid, Non-Returnable
First to Last?the Truth: News ? Editorials - Advertisements
\ou 1AWI No. 25,480.
ItVoparlfTM 1BI??
Tha lnliunr \?? n |
SUNDAY, AITCTST 20, 1916.-SIX PARTS?FIFTY-SIX PAGEvS.
? ? ?
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
R. R. Heads Called: Crisis Grows
BRITISH CUT
2-MILE GAP IN
GERMAN LINE
Gain as Deep as 600
Yards Is Made at
Some Points.
ADVANCE GOES ON
IN HEAVY STORM
French. Too, Mak^ Gains
?Attacks Repulsed,
Says Berlin.
[Bv raV? to Thr Trlhunr I
London, Aup. 19.?General Haig
proof to-day that the British
ive is not broken. In a battle
wh.h ilispatches from the front do
Bl one of the most important
and most successful since the West
crn offenaiYA began, the British
troop.- drove the Germans baek on
a three-mile line. At some points
they prmtratod to a depth of (500
yards.
The new attack began last night
and was carried on despite a heavy
storm. (Amtinuinf- the advance to
day, the Briti.-h attaeked on an
elever.-mile line. They captured a
ridge southeast of Thiepval and ad
tanced their line half way to Ginchy
ar.d to the edge of Guillemont, thus
extendir.g the wedge northward and
eai-twar.i. In addition they took a
half-mile of trenches west of High
Wood. In the attack to-day 800 pris?
oners were taken.
( ounter Attacka Fail.
Hajunrhilfl fierce counter attacks
Germans failed to dislodge
the French from the positions they
won yesterday. Heavy rushes dur
ir.f* the night and this morning wvre
repulsed with great loss, and the
Germans were foreed to relinquish a
hold they had regained in Maurepas.
Foch's men are now consolidating
the ground they won.
The Hritish gains give them al
?mplete mastery of the Albert
Ridge. With these heights in thoir
ion Haig's troops can begin
the advance on Bapaume, their first
ol'jective in the present offensive.
Btroag p'ints in the German second
po-iiirtft were carried by storm and
a p;tth thus opened tot further ad
?
Advance on Two-Mile Front.
1 - ?-. Hif-fc Wood, r.orthoast of Ba
tentin to the- point where their line
the French, the British advanced
rJotig a two-*nile front. This brings
them tl -n_ distance of Mar?
ii. and breaks open a road along
they ran extend their front until
it la on a line with th? French position
at MflflB
. the left wing moved for?
ward ar.d seored a success which B*
? rthy. Both at the
redoubt and at the Monacu
farm, between Pozieres and Thiepval,
Ih*- British fflfflfld their line forward,
thus add n_ to the threat of the flank-,
ing movement a_a;nst Thiepval.
The fifM of the new Allied attacks !
is t(-:.:..? i to by Berlin, which tella of j
B "fltflBflaaflfla effort on the part of our .
combined enemics" alon_ a twelve-mile
bflflt
I claiming that the Germans'
threw thes- assaults Lack, the (ierman
tUtement admits that the Kaiser's
troops shoitcned their salient line be?
tween Cu'lli mont and Maurepas. Thi*
ia an admis-sion that Combles is now
seriously threatened by the joint Allied
attack.
French Hold Offensive.
On the Mruse desperate efforts to
"?Tes: the affflBflifa from the French
have failed. Petain, in addition to
throwing baek these efforts, has tak-n
|rom the Germans the rest of the vil
'?|e of Fleury and made a further ad
V|ice in the neighborhood of Vaux.
Bitter fighting ih still in progreaa on
tne Verdun front. Foot by foot the
Fretich have driven the Germans from
tne few houses thev stiil held in
'leury. The French attacks here have
reacted on the fighting in the Somme
fector and made possible Foch's gains
there.
Through the ronstant pressure on the
t.ermar. Uaaa Foch ifl gradually isolat
">l Guillemont, Combles and Harde
court. When the Britiah ax.e*U have
Mraijhtcned their lme to the north tha
BJanking movement against Combles can
be carried through to success, and then
?n attack on Peronne from the north
ean be launched.
Official Communications
on West Front Fighting
London, Aug. 'jo.?The official
Hotement issued by the War Office
to-night says:
Operations carried out yesterday at
Thl'0U8 .J>oint|> along our fr,nt from
g.fr? -n t0 our e-dreme right, south
uu"l?mont, a distance of about elev
t-onu*,u-U
?? page 7, columo I
Noyes Tells of Vast
War Waged on U-Boats
Describes, with British Admiralty's Co-operation,
How 100,000 Men Use 100-Mile Long Traps
as Spider Webs to Snare Submarines.
By ALFRED NOYES.
(Copyriaht 1016?The Tribune Aaa'n.)
"Dcuttichland uiitcr alles!" was the cry of all (iermany when
her submarine first popped up, not without a touch of comedy, in
Norfolk, \'a.; and undoubtcdly one reason for the vew trans
atlantic submarine is the fact that certain measures have made
English waters unsafe for them. Even submarines that arrive
in Ameriea may disappcar on their return journey. What those
measures are it is now possible, though the censorship is utill
striet, to indicate a little more elearly.
I.
There is a tale in Devonshire that Sir Frar.cis Drake has
not merely listened for his drum during the last three hundred
years, but has also heard and answered it on more than one
naval occasion. It was heard, as the men of the Brixham trawl
ers can testify, about a hundred years ago, when a little rnan,
under the pseudonyme of Nelson (for all Devonshire knows that
Nelson was a reincarnation of Sir Francis), went sailing by to
Trafalgar.
Atk of the Devonshire men,
For they heard, in the dead of night,
Thc roll of the drum, and thej saw him pass.
On a ship all shining white.
He stretched out his dead, cold face,
And he sailed in the grand old way.
The fishes had taken an eye and an arm,
But he swept Trafalgar's Bay.
lt was only a little before the great naval aetion in the
North Sea?perhaps the greatest British vietory since Trafal?
gar?that word came from the Brixham trawlers again. They
had "heard Drake's drum beat" and were now assured that the
Continued on pa*e 11, rolumn 1
BREMEN EXPECTED
WITHIN 24 HOURS
Tug That Guided Deutschland
Coals at Norfolk.
IBy T?le_raph t<j The Trihune 1
Norfolk, Va., Aug. 19. -A atir was
caused all along the waterfront thie
morning when the tug Hansa, former?
ly the Thomas F. Timmons, arrived in
Noifolk and began loading her bunkers
' with coal and lardera with provisions.
Remembering the tufc-'s former long
' vigil off the Virginia Capes, which
' ended with the arrivnl of the German
' undersea merchantman Deutschland,
and thc continued rumors that her
sister ahip, the Bremen, is about due
at the mouth of the Chesapeake on
] her way to Baltimore, the news of the
Hansa's arrival travelled fast.
To-night thc rumors are pcrsistent
that the Bremen will arrive at thc
Capes early in the morning or at the
latest within the next twenty-four
l.ours. It ia deelared that is the rea?
son for the Hansa's arrival and that
to-night the tug will resume her vigil
off the Cape Henry light. With a
strong northtaster blowing, the sea
is choppy and the atmosphere mistv.
Weather conditions are Ideal for the
Bremen's dash past the waiting allied
warships and into the Chesapeake Hav
POLICE CHASE FATHER
SPEEDING TOJLL CHILD
Paralysis Peril Causes Parent to |
Ignore Traffic Laws. i
Lawrence Hoffman, a chauffeur, of j
970 Boston Road, The Bronx, waa ap- |
proached yesterday at Times Square by
? half-hysterical man.
"Quick! To Arverne. I>ong Ifllaad.
My child's dying flf infantile paralysis. j
Don't stop for anything." the man
cried.
Fifteen minutes later Motorcycle Pa?
trolman Shelley, on duty on Merrick :
Koad, saw an automobile flash past mm
aad gave chase. He couldn t gain a
foot on the spceding machine. however,,
and at Valley Strerm a second motor- i
evele patrolman. Frank Craft joined
thfl pursuit. At fiftv miles an hour the
?paofliag car, followed by the two ar.gry ;
policemen. dashed through ^rook, :
Wood.nere, Ccdarhurst. Hewlett and
Lawrence. At Far Rockaway the gates
of a railroad crossing halted tht car.
"You'rc arrested," cried the two po
licement in unison. . ,
-Tve got to go. My child's dying of
paralysis," the passenger Pl?*de<1; .
"Then we'll see you home, and if the
child dies we'll not arrest you this
time." the policemen replied
At the home it was found the child
was better. and each patrolman gave
the father a summons for spceding.
BERLIN APOLOGIZES FOR
SINKING RELIEF SHIP
Offers to Pay for Rijndijk,
Which Sailed from U. S.
The Hague, *ia London, Aug. 20. It
is officially announced that the German
government has admitted that the
Dutch steamer Rijndijk was struck by
a German torpedo and has apologiied
and olfered to comoensate the ownera,
a Rotterdam shipping firm
?.. aall.__._JHh ___?__,_. k_.rn.ha.
.rom _??-.????? -, ,
gian Relief Commiaaion.
The Dutch shipping council which
examined pieces of metal found aboard
found that they were parts of r. White
head torpedo made in Fiume, AuaUia.
NOMOREFREEADS
FOR RACY NOVELS
Successor to Anthony
Comstock Has New
Plan of Uplift.
i i
John S. Sumner, successor lo the
late Anthony Comstock in the Soc;cty
for the Kuppression of Vice, has worked
out a new method of censoring lit?
erature which does not conform to the
society's standard of propriety. He ia
' trying out the plan on Theodore Drei
| ser's jiovel, "The Genius," publisned
SflBl year.
The essential feature of the new ]
method is to get rid of objectionable
I publication.* without giving the au
i thors and publisherg the benefit of
\ free advertiaing, such as followed Mr. '
i Comstock's attacks on the picture "Sep- |
tcmber Morn" and the novel "HflfBf
Kcvc-lly."
In the latter case there waa a spec
tacular raid of the publisher's shop, in
which the proprietor was arrested,
taken to court and tried with gr?at
vigor, but no success. The only re?
sults were columns of free press no- .
tices and an inerease in sales. It is to '
avoid tliis that Mr. Sumner has adopted
his new method, the aim ol which is
to pcrsuade the publisher to agree \oI
untanly to suppress or expu-gate the
publication objectcd to.
"I do not care to say exactiy what
steps are to be taken, because I do not
think publicity of these things does
any good," Mr. Sumner said yesterday.
"We are in consultation with the pub
lishers of 'The Genius,' and if we suc- ?
ceed nothing will be said about the
case, as our purpose is only to sup- i
press what we considcr evil."
Author Gives Hia Viewa.
J. Jcfferson Jones, jr., literary man-:
ager of the John l.ane Company, pub
liahera of "The Genius," alr.o refused
to discuss the matter, but Theodore
Drtiaer, the author, paused yesterday
in the composition of his next book
in his study at 165 West Tenth Street,
to give his side of the triangle. A list
of seventy-tive pages which the vice i
society considcrs "lewd," and seven
teen "profane" has been filed with the
publishers.
"I don't know what action the John
Lane Company will take," Mr. Dreiser
saul, "but thty have been asked to
destroy the plates fll the book. A list
of the pages objected to hag been
placed with them. Hut 1 can say there
will be no suppression of the book
nor will the plates be destroyed, be?
cause, if the publishers should wish
to aceede to the demand. which I don't
b.-liwe they will, I will get out an
ir.junction to prevent them.
"The John Lane Company agreed to
pay me a royalty of ?0 per cent on all
copies of the book sold, so that I have
a live interest in the continued sale of
the book and will, therefore, take ac?
tion. To me the isaue is a contest
that goes down to the very roots of
thought in this country. Are we going
to ruccumb to Puritan thought, or is
it possible for the I'nited States to
accept a world standard of thinking?
"In the I'nited States we are always
talking about the great American
novel. How, I want to ask intelligent
men, are we going to produce that?
Aaks lf Thia Ia Free Country.
"Are we going to do it by adopting
the world standard of criticism which
has permitted the publication of Flau
bert Belzac and others in France;
Tola'toy in Rusala; Mooie, Bennett and
othera in England, and Strindberg and
1 onWnued ?? prage S, colum** I
ALLIES STRIKE
155-MILE LINE
IN BALKANS
Drive (o Win Back
Serbia Closes Ring
of Gunfire.
ENEMY ROUTED
IN MACEDONIA
Offensive on Fourth Front
Opens Wedge Along
Salonica Railway.
[ nr Cahle te Tlie Trtbiin* 1
London, Aug. 19.?The Allied
forces have opened a general offen?
sive in Macedonia. They are attack
ing along a front of 155 miles, and
already have regained fivc villages
from the Germans and the Bulgars.
With the launching of the assault
in the Balkans the ring of fire
around the Teutons has now been
closed. On the East and West fronts
the Allied push has lost none of its
vigor, and the Italians are preparing
for a new blow. The battlc on a
fourth front makes the problem of
the German General Staff one of
sir.ister complexity.
From Florina, where a Bulgarian
counter thrust has been halted, to
the sector ncrth of thc Gulf of Or- j
fani, well east of Salinoca, the bat-,
tle is in progress. Thc Germans and
thflir allies are attempting assaults
at the ends of this line, but Sarrail's
men are turning them gradually and i
meanwhile advancing in the centre,.
along the railway running out of
.Salonica, the Allied base.
Gnna Roar Night and Day.
Since August 1 thc Allied forces
have been fecling out the opposing
line. Their artillery has been ac?
tive night and day, and their airmen
have been gauging the strength of
the enemy. With the Russian offen?
sive in the Kovel sector resumed the
Germans cannot send backt many of
the, troops withdrawn from the Bal?
kan front.
To military observers here this
seems thc moment at which an Allied
driva. to win back Serbia stands great?
est chance of success. Both on the
West and the East fronts the battle
has been renewed, and, with the Ital?
ians threatening to advance, the Teu?
ton line in Serbia cannot be strongly
garrisoned.
In anticipation of this wide assault,
the Teutonic Allies began two attacks.
The Bulgars drove south and took
Florina, south of Monastir, while the
(iermans have begun an advance east
of the Struma River, well east of the
Salonica Railway.
Serba ln Counter Attack.
Both these attacks have been
stemmed, according to Allied reports
to-night. The Serb., have now begun
a counter thrust, while Sarrail's forces
have widened their assault in both di
rections from the Salonica road.
In Albania, fighting on a smaller
*.cale continues. As soon as the Al?
lied drive from Salonica is well under
way the Italians are expected to be?
gin their attack, working north from
their base at Valona.
The Germans and their Allies are
continuing with success their opera?
tions agaTaflt thc Bataate forces, ac?
cording to the official German an?
nouncement of to-day, which says:
"South and east of Florina our
counter attacks continue successfully.
Soulhwest of Lake Doiran there was
fighting al the Bulgarian advance po?
sitions at repeated intervals. East of
ronUnaed on p?fe 7. column 4
Eight-Hour Day Sanctioned
/ by Society, Says President
Washington, Aug. 19.?President Wilson, in the following
statement issusd this afternoon, made public his views of the
railroad strike controversy and the eight-hour day:
I have recommended the eoricession of the eight
hour dav?that is, the substitution of an eight-hour day
for the present ten-hour day in all the existing practices
and agreements. I made this recommendation because
I believe the concession right. The eight-hour day now
undoubtedly has the sanction of the judgment of society
in its favor and should be adopted as a basis for wages
even where the actual work to be done cannot be com?
pleted within eight hours.
Concerning the adjustments which should be made.
in justice to the railroads and their stockholders, in the
pavments and privileges to which rheir men are now
entitled (if such adjustments are necessary) there is a
wide divergence of opinion.
The railroads which have already adopted the eight
hour day do not seem at any serious disadvantage in
respect of their cost of operation, as compared with the
railroads that have retained the ten-hour day, and calcu
lations as to the cost of the change must, if made now,
be made without regard to any possible administrative
economies or readjustments.
Only experience can make it certain what rearrange
ments would be fair and equitable, either on behalf of
the men or on behalf of the railroads. That experience
would be a definite guide to the Interstate Commeree
Commission, for example, in determining whether, as a
consequence of the change, it would be necessary and
right to authorize an inerease of rates for the handling
and carry ing of freight (for passenger service is not
affected).
I, therefore, proposed that the demand for extra pay
for overtime made by the men and the contingent pro
posals of the railroad authorities be postponed unti.
facts shall have taken the place of calculations and fore
cast with regard to the effects of a change to the eight
hour Hay; that in the mean time, while experience was
devcloping the facts, I should seek and, if need be, obtain
authority from Congress to appoint a small body of im?
partial men to observe and thoroughly acquaint them?
selves with the results, with a view to reporting to Con?
gress at the earliest possible time the facts disclosed by
their inquiries, but without recommendation of any kind;
and ;hat it should then be entirely open to either or both
parties tQ the present controversy to give notice of a
termination of the present agreements with a view to m
stituting inquiry into suggested readjustments of pay
or practice.
This seems to be a thoroughly practical and entirely
fair programme, and I think the public has the right to
expect its acceptance.
Mitchel Rushing Here
to Bring About Car Peace
Mayor Quits Camp as Straus Offers Aid in Conference
To-morrow Which May Avert Tie-Up of Traffic
Throughout City. t
With both lides confidem that to mor?
row will see .t settlencnt of thc differ?
ences between the car men's union and
the New York Railways Company over j
the reinstatement of fourteen men, the
conference between the men and Frank
Hedley, general manager of the com?
pany, concerning working conditions
and wages, set for yesterday morning,
went over until Tuesday afternoon.
To seek a settlement of the case,
Mayor Mitchel will leave Plattsburg.
for New York to-night. reaching this |
city to-morrow morning. Oscar S.
Straus. chairman of the Public Service ,
Commission, who. with him underwrote
the recent strike settlement and whose ,
aid is sought in aettling the present
dispute, is also expected to return from
his vacation in Maine. Mr. Straus
wired The Tribune last night that he
would come back if necessary.
Mr Mitchel's decision to return foi-,
lowed a conference at City Hall at
which Theodore Rousseau anked Will
UOO B Fitzgerald. leader of the men,
and Louis Fridiger. their counsel. why
there should be trouble._
Is It Infact?
With so many good things in one Sunday paper it's not IflW
ishing that sometimes something happens to a section here and
there. It simply gets lost somewhere between our presses and
your library table. But you can protect yourself against that Dy
checking over this index:
P.rl 1-TU M.in New. Par. Ill -Editorial. R<* P?- V The Tribun.
_ .1 Magaxine.
-orts. hinancial. " . T, mm ?
Ifltflflfl? . ?, _, Parl vl-Ihe I nbune
Parl JV-Thealreg, Cr,phic (two g?
P,rl II- -Sporling See- Mugic. Children. The tion, of 8 big pagei
Tribune Inililule. each).
tion.
Did it all arrive safely? lf it didn't. eall ui up the first thing
to-morrow morning and tell us. We don't propose to have you
miss a single part of this big 5c worth if we can help it. And
we canl
a She ?imaa]j crttmnc i*w
?affiL. Firat to La*t ? th. Truth C2taW
\^mf- Naxw--EdttoriaU?Ad';ertU*ment*. Ja?JH
.^HaPaJaflU Mrmbar of iha A-jUt Buraau nrcuUtl-aM. .a*a_____B___.
"Why do you want a strike?" the
seeretary asked.
"We don't want a strike," replied
Pitzgerald; "but unless there is aetion
on this matter by Monday night the
company will have to take the respon
gibility for what may happen."
The men, he said, were weary of the
dilatory methods being used by the
company.
"I don't say," he deelared, "that we
are not getting a square deal, but I
will say right here and now that we
will get a square deal."
Mr. Fridiger was careful to make it
clear that the men did not seek a joint
conference with the Mayor and Mr.
Straus or that they had any idea of
arbitrating. He let it be understood'
that the men expected Mayor Mitchel
and Mr. Straus would tell the company
to accede to the demands of the union
on this point.
It was suggested that the wages and
working conditions conference go over
until to-morrow, but when one of the
conferrees deelared that Monday would
likely be a busy day on the main ques?
tion, Tuesday was agreed upon.
Organizcrs Still Buay.
Returning to the Hotel Continental,
Mr. Pitzgerald and Mr. Fridiger aaid
they would continue organizing the
men and await some word from Mayor
Mitchel and Mr. Straus.
"We are not going to have any arbi?
tration on this question," Mr. Fridiger
remarked. "If we were as.ured a de?
cision in our favor, obtained by a de?
posit of government bonds, we would
not agree to that. It ia ? matter of
principle."
"The situation ia aimple," Mr. Fitr
gerald told reporters. "We made an
agreement with the company. The com?
pany has broken it. We have sent
word to the Mayor and Mr. Straus, who
underwrote the agreement and in a way
fave bond for the company to us and
rom us to the company, that both aides
would keep their contract. Now we
await a reasonable time for the bonds
men to compel specific performance.
That is aU.
Meetings for Recralte.
"There will be no atrike order until
after a reasonable opportunity haa been '
given the Mayor and Mr. Straus to get
reaulta. We don't want any atrike. We
want peaee."
Meantime the work of eompletmg the
organization of the Interborough em?
ployes will be the principal matter of ;
conaideration, Mr. Fitzgerald said. The !
work of enrolment was continuing and i
it waa likely that this week would aee |
the demands of the men in the handa of
the company. For thia purpoae a meet
t ?Biuaoed on paeje ?, coluaaa 1
WILSON REFUSES TO YIELD
ON 8-HOUR DAY DEMAND
He Insists Humanity Is in Line
with Unions in Request for
Shorter Hours.
ROADS' EXECUTIVES PLEAD
FOR FULL ARBITRATION
President Listens Attentively, but Refuses to
Waver in His Stand ? Declares That
the Nation Faces aCritical Condition.
[From a Staff Correspondent of The Tribune.]
Washington, Aug. 19.?The differences between President
Wilson and the railroad companjes have reached the most criti
cal stage since the negotiations began. The President himself
is keenly aware of the gravity of the situation.
The most significant developments to-day were these:
Thirty-three railway executives, called to the
White House when the managers' conference com?
mittee refused to accept the President's settlement
plan, backed up the managers' stand and insisted upon
arbitration.
President Wilson was told that the managers' com?
mittee had been empowered by all the affected roads
to carry the controversy to a conclusion. The railroad
executives explained tha.t they had authority to act
for their own propertifcs cr.ly.
The President immediately retaliated by sum
moning to Washington all the other executives whose
companies are involved in the demands of the unions.
This sensational move postpones any decision in the
matter perhaps until the middle of the week. By that
time there will be about one hundred railroad execu?
tives in Washington.
Both the railroads and the President took the
public into their confidence for the first time.
Wilaon for Eight Houra.
President Wilson issued a statement in which he deelared
unequivocally for the eight-hour day. He believes this con
cession is right. It is sanctioned, he said, by society, and should
be adopted as a basis for wages even where the actual work
to be done cannot be eompleted within eight hours.
THOUGHT BURGLARY
STORY A JOKE
_,
Victim of $3,000 Robbery Rang
Off When Police Notifled Him.
Deteetive Griffin, of the Fourth
Branch Bureau, calted up Louis Lowen
thal, of 65 Fort Washington Avenue, ,t
his summer home, in Rockaway, last
night.
"Your apartment has been robbed of
$3,000 worth of silverware," he an-;
nounced. "Five men have been arrest?
ed. Come to New York to-day and
appear against them."
"You can't kid me!" exclaimed Low
enthal. "I won't spoil my Sunday in
the country for a practical joke."
Then hc rang off.
Meanwhile, at Police Headquarters
Stanley Hill, Perry Coleman and Fitz?
gerald Robinson, all negroes, are being
held, eharged with the theft. With
them are Irving Wflll, of 63 West 135th
Street, and Ludwig Lang, a jeweller, of
151 West 125th Street, both accused of
receiving stolen goods.
According to the police, Hill, who
runs an elevator in the Fort Washing?
ton Avenue house. let hia two fnenda
into the Lowenthal apartment Friday
night, and helped them carrv away
everything they could find of value.
Most of the silverware was recovered.
BOY NEARLY DROWNED
TRYING TO SAVE DOG
Animal Rescues Itself, but Lad
Has To Be Pulled Out.
"Yoo-hoo, Joey your dog fell in!"
That waa enough for nine-year-old
Jo?eph Casey, of 15 Clinton Street,
Friak's owner. Without waiting even
to remove the acuffed ahoea that partly
covered atockinglesa feet, Joey went
over the aeawall at the foo*. of East
Fifth Street, into the Eaat R.ver, yes?
terday afternoon.
A half-minute later Frisk had
scrambled baek to safety unaided and
was sha|-ing hia stub tail in dellght
at the new game, while hia young
master went down beneath the surface.
The next thing Joey knew, Frigk was
licking his faee, while Dr. Fitzgerald,
of Bellevu, Hospital, bent over both
of them. One line of the doctor'a re?
port read:
"Rescued by Dan Foley. 178 Lewil
Street."
*
LOST IN RESCTJE ATTEMPT
Hathf-r Disappear, After Boy Drowna
in Surf.
(Rf TM-ttrgph la Tt-* Ttbuna ]
Aabury Park, N. J., Aug. 19. Regi- I
nald Voiglit, fourteen yeara old, of
New York, spending the iumm?r at 78
Embury Avenue, Oeeaa Grove, waa (
drowned in the surf to-lay, despite thej
efforts of guarda and volunteera to i
aave him. Frank Halbert, of New-j
ark. who put out to tke aid of the lad,'
ia believed to hav, aerished.
i> The President concluded that roads
already operating under an eight
hour schedule do not seeir. to be at
any serious disadvantage, but in thia
respect he proposed ar. impartial in?
vestigation by a commission whose
report would leave the subject open
to either party or both to effect re
adjustment;.
"This," said the President, "seems
to me a thoroughly practical and en?
tirely fair programme, and I think
that the public has the right to ex
pect its acceptance."
The railroad executives, on the
other hand, made public the state?
ment they had made to President
Wilson, insisting upon arbitration
as "the common right of every citi?
zen of whatever station in life to ba
heard?to have his day in court."
To refuse arbitration, the railroadfl
contend, "is an adnrission of the un
reasonableness of the demand."
Plea b) the Roads.
"An adju.tment in this manner .that
proposed by the President)," saya the
railroads' plea, "will by the force ef
thia high precedent place in peril all
that has been accomplished in tSe
peaceful adjuatment of labor contro
versies by methods of arbitratior. ?rd
therefore we present to you our re
spectful but earnest request th it yoa
do not lend the weight of your ?rcat
influence again/t this right, wh -h aa*
claim, to be heard, but support the
railroada in thia crisia in the effort to
maintain thia great principle of arbi?
tration.'.'
The seriousneaa of the present ait'i
ation, however, was emphaaized to
night by the announcement that moat
of the railroad presidents, whom Preai?
dent Wilson summoned to-uay when he
failed to make headway with the ones
now here, have sanctioned by telegraph
the position taken by their asaociatei.
In fact, nearly all the leading railway
cxecutivea throughout the country have
talked over thia controveray for
months, and, with few exceptiona, aU
are in accord.
Preeidrnt'e Stand Firm.
The President's atatemenl left little
doubt that he is prepared to atand or
fail on the proposition that he haa aub
mitted to both sides. It is atated at the
White House that if this plan ahould
fail, perhap* another one more accept
able might be devised, but aeveral
thing militate againat that hope. The
moat important of theae ia the fact tha.
the uniona already have accepted tt
They conaider that in ao dorag they
have nacrifict-d a great deal, and it
i would xeem to be utterly hopeleaa to
get them even to discuan a propoaition
that would be leaa ?*lY____u_teoua to
i
