Em
WEATHER
Arizona: Sunday
and Monday generally
fair.
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Aug. 9, 25.40.
VN02WW 'XInTomT
Associated Press Special Leas ;d Wire Service.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, AUGUST 20, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
VOL. 19, NO. 73.
ESIDENT APPEALS DIRECTLY 10 PRESIDENTS OF HE RAILROADS FOR S
DD
0
r
'I
.
i
. f
OFFENSIVE ON1
GREEKFRONT
STARTED BY
SERRAIL
Allied Commander, at Salo-j
niki, Attacks Along a Line'j
of 150 Miles and Registers
Several Successes in Day.
ALL FRONTS ARE
NOW IN THE ACTION
British Again Successful in
Their Salient Near Somme.
Take Trenches and Other
Works of Germans.
OFFENSIVE PG ONE ... ..'
PARIS, Aug. 19. .The entente allies'
forces are in contact with the Ger
mans and Bulgarians along the entire
Saloniki front, according to an offi
cial statement issued by t'le war of
fice tonight. The allies have taken
five villages.
BERLIN, Aug. 19. (Via London,
5:46 p. m.) The Germans and their
allies on the Balkan front are contin
uing their operations with success,
the official announcement of today
LONDON,
The British
front of 11
Aug. 20. (2:40 a. m.)
have advanced along a
miles, capturing a rlflge
Thiepval, high ground
overlooking
north of Pozieres, and a half mile of
trenches west of High wood, according
to the official statement issued by tfce
war office at midnight. They cap
tured 756 prisoners in these opera
tions. LONDON, Aug. 20. (3:24 a. m.)
IMtish troops, continuing their ad
vanee north of the Somme in France,
have captured a ridge southeast of
Thiepval and advanced their line to
ward Ginchy and Gurtlemont. says the
official statement issued shortly be
fore last midnight. Nearly 800 prison
ers were captured.
The long expected general offen
sive on the Saloniki front has opened
and the grand assault against the
forces of the central powers now is
in progress in every theatre of the
world. General Sarrail is attacking the
Bulgarian-German forces along the en
tire Greek-Serbian frontier, a distance
of more than 150 miles.
Reports from both Berlin and Paris
indicate that the entente allies are
following the same tactics in the Bal
kans that signalized the opening of
the great offensive on the Somme.
Small bodies of troops are attacking
at numerous points along the Bulga
rian line, apparently with the inten
tion of feeling out their opponents' po
sitions before the real battle opens.
The French claim the capture of a
number of vil'aees in the initial
phaseB of the offensive, while Berlin
reports the capture of Fiorina, a Greek
town. 15 miles southeast of Monastir.
from the Serbians. Serbian headquar
ters admits this repulse.
On the eastern front the Russians
have forced their way into the .heart
of the great mountain barrier be
tween Galicia and the Hungarian
The Austrians admit a retirement
plains. Austrians admit a retirement
of the most importart passes through
the mountains, which was seized by
the Russians last week. In this dis
trict the Austrians are retreating to
ward the Chornahora rirte, the l.irh
est point in the Carpathians in that
region. From thl ridge the ground
falls rapidly to the plains of Hungary.
Farther to the south, on the Buko
wina end of the battle line, the Rus
sians have been forced back in their
advance on Kirlebaba. the next pass
south of Jablonltza and about 50 miles
from that po'nt.
Daily attacks by the British against
the German lines north of the Somme
in France are having their reward,
and Iondon announces the most pot
able gain in some days in the GuilU
mont. After withstanding German
counter attacks, the troons of General
Haig again assaulted the opposing
trenches and gained from 200 to 600
yards aolng a front of two miles
POLICE GUARD CHICAGO
BANK FROM DEPOSITORS.
CHICAGO, Aug. 19 rolire
guarded the two branches of the
private banking institution of
Adolph Silver and Company ij
night when hundreds of deposi
tors gathered in the streets fol
lowing the failure jf the bank
to open for Saturday night busi
ness as usual.
The deposits in the bank are
said to have totalled $100,000.
When the banking firm was
organized eight years ago, Adolph
Silver, brother of Max, was senior
partner and Max junior partner.
Six n.Onths ago Adolph Silver's
health failed and he weut west.
presumably to Colorado. The
elder brother's present connec-
tion v.-ith the banking firm is not
known, police said.
TAURANT IS
FREE 10 OPEN
TROUBLE
Judge Lockwood, in Superior
Court, Grants Tempoarry
Restraining Order Against
Cooks and Waiters.
NO INTIMIDATION
ALLOWED BY DECREE
Written Injunction Provides
Against Any Molestation
of William Truax, His Cus
tomers or His Employes.
TOMBSTONE, Aug. 19. (Special)
A temporary injunction was granted
in the superior court today by Judge
Lockwood in the case of William Tru
ax against the Bisbee Cooks and Wait
ers t'nion, the Warren District Trades
Assembly and several individuals.
The injunction reads as follows:
"Now therefore, this is to- command
iyou and each of you, that until further
order of this court, you and each or
you, your officers, attorneys, commit
tees, agents, employees, servants.
members, conferedates, associates and
all others acting or co-operating with
you, or by or under your direction and
consent, or agreeing, combining or
conspiring with you, to absolutely de-
sist and refrain from in any manner
or by any means conspiring or com
biing to boycott, or combining to boy
cott the business of plaintiff's, ty use
of the means hereinafter set out snd
in any and all of the ways hereinaft
er mentioned, that is to say; From
shotting, aiding, assisting, furthering
of participating in such boycott, by di
rectly or indirectly threatening, co
ercing menacing or intimidating any
person whatever from patronizing,
buying from, or otherwise dealing with
plaintiff's, or from entering into the
employment of plaintiff's in their said
business, from printing, publishing or
displaying any signs, banner, handbill,
pamphlet, newspaper advertisement.
or any other device for the purpose of
intimidating or coercing any person
or persons into participating in any
boycott against plaintiffs business, or
place of business: from parading up
and down on the sidewalk or street in
front of. or In the immediate vicinity
of plaitiff's place of business and de
claring the said plaintiffs, their place
of business, or their conduct thereof
as unfair to organized labor, in such
words, tones or manner, as to intimi
date the patrons, or other patrons of
said place of business from dealing
therein; and from doing any other act
or thing or using any other word or
words, written or spoken, in further
ance of any plan or plans of said de
fendants to start, maintain and carry
(Continued on Page Four.)
AMERICAN GIRL RELEASED.
NEW YORK. Aug. 19 The re
lease from prison in Vienna of
Miss Alice Masaryk, daughter of
an American woman, who was
charged with high treason, was
announced here tonight by Alex
ander von Nuber, Austrian con
sul general. Miss Masaryk, it
was said, was freed July 3.
wTHOlIT
POLITICS ID
BUSINESS DO.
ioi m-
HUGHES
Candidate for Presidency on
Republican Ticket Tells
San Francisco People Poli
tics Can be Mixed in U. S.
FORMER JUSTICE
SPEAKS IN OAKLAND
Traveler Leaves, With Party,
for Los Angeles. Will Re
sume Trip to East Tuesday,
Speaking at Sacramento.
(By Review Leased Wire)
SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 19 Charles j
E. Hughes today told audiences here
and in Oakland that the government ;
of the Unitede States could not b
properly conducted by mixing politics
with business, with preparedness, with
the maintenance of international
honbr, or with other administrative
functions of government.
"When you start out to be military
and not political." Mr. Hughes told
an audience in Oakland. "I C'J not
believe we can run this government.
by mixing these and play . politics,"
the nominee said to a gathering of
business men here a short time before
the Oakland meeting. At Oakland
Mr. Hughes repeated his declaration
that he favored fostering honorable
American achievements in business by
finding the facts and acting upon
them.
"You can break d'jwn your prosper
ity by prostituting yourself in the
face of an unjust popular demand."
Mr. Hughes said. "I shall never do
that and the unjust popular demand
is only unjust because the facts are
not understood. The only thing I am
afraid of in this country is the dark.
When we get things 'out into the
light of day, and see the actual facts j
we generally find out
IC
trhth and justice lies.
"Some people live in dreamland."
1 r IT ii (rhac Anntin it w1 In a nau tr in tw ft
the need for military and commercial j y County Attorney John F. Ross and
preparedness. "They do not under- JuJSe Campbell, for the county offi
stand the actual world we live in.1' cials. an Alexander Murray appear
The nominee spoke of federal Am- ed for the plaintiffs in the absence
missions to investigate labor ques
tions. "I believe we can put down what is
wrong without destroying what is
good. In weeding out bur garden we
do not want to pull up the useful
plants.
"We cannot go forward unless we
realize ourselves, rationally. ' We
must more than ever understand that
national powers are 1'3 be exercised
an.i mat national prosperity can De
gained only by the potency of our
Mr. Huehes declared himself op
posed to invisible government.
"I want," he said, "visible govern
ment, competent administration not
only'by those elected hy the people.
by. appointees of elected officials who
represent the competence, the intel
ligence and the talent f the nation.
We are entitled to that."
(Continued on Page 8)
Funston Recommends
Expedition From
WASHINGTON. Aim 19 A recommendation from General Fun ston that the American troops be
withdrawn from Mexico was contained in a recent report on the situation made at the request of the
war department and designed for use of the joint commission. State denartment officials do not at
tempt to diseuise their rei-ret over the premature publication of General Funston's conclusions, but
they indicated today that it would not cause anv alterations in the plans.
Officials realize, it is understood, that the Mexican viewpoint will be the question of withdrawal
of General Pershing's expedition. In order to furnish the American commissioners with full
information General Funston was asked to express his views on the m Hilary aspects or the expedition.
ti. i .vv inrtiotinn that the commissioners and later the administration were expected to abide
tv the recommendations of the chief military advisor on the border. Publication of the fact that Gen
eral Funston believes It wise to withdraw the troops may hamper the American commissioners, some
officials think, in obtaining wha tever guarantees they may ask of the Mexican government as to se
ruritv of the border from bandit raids. It is believed that the administration Is fully prepared to ar
range for the recall of General Pershing's forces, since both state and war department officials are
understood to share the views expressed in General Funston's report.
There can be littl ednubt. it is how said, that the withdrawal will be promptly agreed to when
e co-mission meets, the conferees then turning their attention to the drafting of a protocol to cover
future border operations, investigation of the causes of bandit raids, and such other matters as they
may wish to tike up.
No intimation came from the White House today as to when announcement of the American
p-rmhership of commission might be expected, ln view of Secretary Lansing's recent assurances to
F.liseo Arredondo. Mexfan ambassador designate, that the commission could be assembled very soon. It
was believed tonight that the names of the commissioners would be in ado public very shortly.
NIPPERS ARE tABOUT
TO GRIP," SAYS MINISTER.
CRICCIETH. lales, Aug. 20.
(1:49 a. m.) Ip a speech lest
nit'ht to his fallow townsmen
h-re. David L.'jyd George, minis
ter of war, said:
"I am satisfied; with the way
things are going. J I feel for the
first time that the nippers are
gripping and before long we will
hear the crack. Then we will be
able to extract the kernel.
I say that we shall see that ;
there will not be another war in '
our day. The British people j
have n'3de greater sacrifices then
we ever thought possible. Three
years ago, nolJdj dreamed that
Great Britain would pour four
millions of young manhood into
the battle front The vigor or
jur demand must be according
to the measure of our sacrifices."
IS
REFUSED IN
T
Superior Court of Cochise
County Refuses to Grant I
Injunction Against Board
of Supervisors.
EXTENDED REMARKS
MADE BY THE JUDGE
v
Case Was Brought to Stop
Payment of Thiel Detec
tive Agency for Services in
Securing Evidence.
TOMBSTONE, Aug. 19. (Special)
In the matter of the application for
an injunction against the Board of
Supervisors and the county treasurer
filed by J. B. Murchlson, A. S. Field
and J. B. Speer, to prevent the pay
ment of the ciaira filed by the Thiel
I Detective agency for services in col
JpctlnR evidenee' ln tne liquor aeUlng
leases, me court mis ihuihiiik ucuim
1 the application and gave judgment to
. . . . ! A l.l
I the defendants. The case was argued
of Attorney Irwin of Douglas.
In deciding the case the court said:
"We are taught by history that or
ganized society was instituted in the
first place for the purpose of enforc
ing the so-called penal laws of such
society. That has. from the beginning
of history, been the particular duty of
society and its government. From
time to time these duties have been
extended, but I think it has always re-
. . ,.,, .,, of the ofri
; of gof ,ety tQ enforce the pena,
laws of 3uch society."
"Now. under our law, the counties
of the different states are given, by
their sovereignty, the right and au-
' thoritv and the duty to enforce the
penal laws throuen tneir various oiu
cers. The county attorney's office,
the sheriffs office and the court be-
ing the chief office, but every officer
(Continued on Page Five.)
TO
Withdrawal of American Punitive
Mexico; Would Expedite Understanding
s
IS DKED
SEVERELY
tl
Damage to Public Utilities,!
Not Counting That at Sev-,
eral Cities, Estimated in the
Neighborhood of Millions.
LAREDO IS HIT BY
PART OF THE WINDS
Railroads and Telegraph Lines
Still Tied Up by Blow. No
Lives Lost on Mainland, So
Far as Known at Present
SAN ANTONIO, Aug. 19. Rail
roads and other republic utilities
operating through the storm
stricken district suffered losses
aggregating more than $3,300,000
not including damages at Corpus
Christl and other cities.
It probably will take the San
Antonio and Aransas Pass Rail
road a week or ten days to restore
service to Corpus Christi, rail
road officials said, and it may be
rifteen Cays until trains run to
Rock port.
Officials of the railroads declar
ed tonight that they had more
than one thousand men repairing
the damage.
Western Union Telegraph Com
pany estimated the storm damage
to the company to be $50,000.
Storm at Laredo.
LAREDO,. Texas, Aug. 19. Consid
erable property damage and great in
convenience to troops In the various
national guardsmen camps in the La
redo district resulted from a tropical
storm which raged here from six
o'clock last night until four o'clock
this afternoon. For several hours
! Laredo was completely cut off from
wur iuiiiihuihv.h
; world. Practically every tent of the
.nnml.l nn lh th OtlKllllA
9.000 soldiers here were blown down
and the men were exposed to torren
tial rains for hours.
Advices from the target range,
eight miles southwest of Laredo,
where 1200 members of the First Mis
souri infantry are at practice, state
that six hundred shelter tents were
blown down and the men compelled
to huddle together in the open to
weather the storm. The regiment is
expected to return to headquarters
here immediately.
Of the six niilifry companies here,
the regulars at Fort Mcintosh fared
the best. The Fourteenth cavalry
occupying the barracks, was not af
fected, while the Ninth infantry which
occupied tents nearby suffered by
i s'i?ht inconveniences. The remaining
Missouri troops and the Maine ana
New Hampshire contingents stationed
near Fort Mcintosh suffered Iobb of
their tents and the destruction of sev
ers! buildings in their camps.
Work on recostruction of the camps
was Immediately begun.
(Continued on Page Five.)
STORM
WILSON TELLS
RESPOBIL IT WILL HOT
REST UPON HIS SHOULDERS
Dramatic Situation Presented When Chief Executive of the
Nation Makes Striking Talk to Thirty-three Heads of
Big Operating Companies. Western Presidents Expect
ed in Washington. Hope Had for Settlement
WASHINGTON, Aug. 19. P resident Wilson appealed to the
railroad officials today to abandon their insistence on arbitration
of the dispute, threatening a nation-wide strike and to accept his
plan of settlement, already agreed to by the employes, because in
hi opinion the railroads are contending for a principle which it
seemingly it impossible to apply to the present situation.
' In one of the most dramatic scenes known to the White House
in recent years, the president declared to the heads of $5,000,000,
000 worth of property, assembled at hi summons:
"If a strike comes, the public will know where the responsi
bility rests. It will not be upon me."
A few minutes later he issued a statement saying:
"The public has a right to expect acceptance of this plan."
Refusing acceptance for the present, but not giving a final
answer, Hale Holden, president of the Burlington road, and spokes
man for the 33 railroad officals, urged the president to uphold the
principle of arbitration and declared his plan "would place in peril
all that has been accomplished in the peaceful adjustment of labor
controversies by methods of arbitration."
At the close of the conference President Wilson summoned to
Washington additional railroad presidents from the w'st and the
executives already here told him they would confer among thenv
selves and return next week, probably Monday,
the meantime, representatives
ln
of both the roads and the employes
will remain
ences.
here for irftbrmal confer-
The situation tonight was described
by a railroad president as "not hope
less, but grave." It will be at a stand
still until Monday at least. Discus
sion of the counter-proposals and com
promises was current and serious con
sideration was given to the possibility.
of government operation or tne roaas,poinU ,n president Wilson's public
in case of a strike. As a result of the , 8tatement o; his settelment plan that
day's conferences, however, it was , comforted trjem and led to a belief
said on good authority, that many of tat eventually there will be an agree
the road presidents looked upon the j ment avertin!f a strike'. The first was
possibility or a strike as more remote
than at any time since they came to
Washington. Over the week end It
was anticipated that tne rauroaa or-
flcials will get Into communication
with the controlling financial inter -
ests and It still was considered pos-
slble that some of the powerful dl -
rectors of the roada would De canea
to Washington.
Both among the employes and the,
employers talk of arrangements for a
strike continued and for different
reasons both sides thought if it came.
it would last less than a week.
While President Wilson was still
addressing the railroad executives,
telling them they faced "a condition
not a principle." his ststement to the
public, reviewing his plan and char
acterizing It as a "thoroughly prac-
tlcable and fir program." was given
out at the White House. In the state-
ment "e ureed the adootlon or tne
eight-hour day because he "believed
the concession right." He suggested the
rreatlon by congress or a small Doay
of men to investigate the results, and
urged the abandonment of the demand
for time and a balf overtime nay by
the men and the "contingent" pro-
osals by the railroads.
Mr. Holden insisted upon arbitra- position to this proposal and that
tion ln his reply to the president be- prpssure wil be exerted to have mem
csnse. "it Is essentiallv the common bpr8 of the senate and house express
right of every citizen of whatever con- to the president their convictions
dition in life to b heard." and Im-( along the same line,
causn experience "has put the right ( jt was after a prolonged meeting
to claim arbitration as method of:at their hotel that the railroad presl
settllng such controversies beyond i dpnts went to the White House short
question." ' ly before noon today to listen to Mr.
He argued that the eicht-hour day Wilson's appeal and to outline ther
Is Iran-acticsMe In ral'rosding and tentative position. At the same time,
said the roads are willine for the the general committee of employes
Interstate commerce commission or j,eld a meeting, but only marked time,
any other dilnterested body to arhl- awaitin the derision of the officials,
trste the whole nuetion. The de- , pr(.sdent Wilson welcomed the
mand for the eight-hour dsv li in rattr,, officials in the Blue room and
reality, he declared, only an Indirect aftpr jr. Holden had stated their
plea for "n enormous Increase In p08jtion. beesn a dramatic appeal
wes." and said that "in this In-, whtch left his visitors sobered and
stance for those demanding a change ! thoughtful. At times, striding up and
to refnue to submit their demands to down )n front of the small rronp snd
arbitration is Indefensible " ! emnhas'7.fng telling points hy shaking
W. O. Lee. head of the Brotherhood nIs, f,st tlie rresident told the rail
!
.COMPENSATION BILL PASSES
I
WMSTTTNOTOV. 10 The
wrken's rnmnensntinn b"1 to
provide uniform
romr.enaton
f, ,o,-.rnent emnlove wW
HWaMerf timf hoef".
. for tholr famttt-. In r,e
oh w n.M torf.r bv tfc
,.nte r.cticllv In he
form as It was passed in the
Home
at
OFFICIALS
of Rajroad Trainmen
gave out a
j Drlef 8tatement tonight on behalf of
' the men, pointing out that in accept
ing President Wilson's plan the em
ployes surrendered a very large por
tion of their demands. He added the
workmen would remain here but
would take no further action unless
released by Mr. Wilson.
The railroad officials found two
. a nint that ir the facts warranted, the
, interstate commerce commission may
Krant an jncrease in freight rates.
and tne second was a suggestion that
j tne eight hour base would be accepted
; oniy tentatively and might be terml-
ated after investigation by the com-
: miSsion provided under the presi-
dent's plan.
The railroads all alone have con-
tended that the facts relating to pay
j of raen wm not justify the eight-hour
: uay an(j gonle f them are said to
Ieei that investigation by an impar-
tial commission cannot fail to back
: up that position. The companies would
be under additional expense while the
investigation was in progress but in
the opinion of Mr. Wilson its work
would he done expeditiously and a re
port might be expected in a few
months.
j Tne road officials, however, evl-
,ipntlv feei that before a decision is
reach"ed every opportunity should be
Klven otner nusjne8S interests to de-
cide what mieht be the effect on
,em of an etgi,t-hour railroad day.
There was no concealment of the fact
that some cf tnetn believe many man-
ufactUrers and shippers are bound to
reirister at the White House their op-
road executives bluntly he believed
thv honld accent his plan.
"We must face the nVed truth In
h'9 rTi'" "ai1
We must not
rifcn impractical thine. We must
r"f nown IO n"Rls " "-
uat-on can ne so.vi.
i Solemnly '5V,1"," out
h he represented the 100.0Ort.COO
, neonle of the nation, every one of
, whoin '"" prt in the
threatened strike. He said his only
object was to avoid a break. In a
! (Continued on Tag Four.)
