SOCIETY'S STYLES FROM
THE SOCIETY ISLANDS
Baroness discovers startling similarity be
tween J916 modes and savage dress.
See the story and pictures
IN NEXT SUNDAY'S SUN.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Cloudy, cold wave to-night; to-morrow
fair and cold ; strong northwest '
Highest temperature yesterday, 3JT
Udalled weather, mull and marine repoYts
VOL LXXXIII. NO. 139.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 1916. (Wi'lffif. 19l. by the Sun mntino ami l'liblUhlmj MiotUlfm.
PRICE
wtndV
oweHl.
OBOLLY '
DEATH DECREE
PUT ON BANDITS
BY CARRANZA
AMo Anici'iciins t Be IV I
ticiit. He'll ruiiish
Villn's
TIIAIX WITH FLKKlXii
rmzKXs is "i.osr
P,ihI hi' On. Uodrijrut'
Kails to Arrive Nine
KxcciiIhI. Is Report.
Cuirm..! lm put n ele-crce eif death
to Villi iiinl ill'. Ill" "1.1111111." Hp
tvm epee'dv execution of the
,. Mrr "if Anitncnn.
The- I "list Chief iiIko neks that
American 1'" patient nnd give lilm
t.nif 1 1 avenge tin- iiiiimsiuto.
A warm debate 1 expected In t'on
ftf when Secretary I.iinltisT turn
ever tin1 iMinTspntniotico on tho Me.xl
ni situation anil tin- list of Anitrlcinis
k.,iei.
A train with l."u Americans which
suited from I'artal. Mex.lco. to tho
Isintrr I "lost " Nothing has been
It-nrd from It since yesterday aflor
lonn. The train which wa supposed to
YtU the body of tlen. Jos.. Ito.lrl
ru, Villa lender, ti prove that ho
Was executed, arrived. l'"t there was
po body on It.
A bandit (lenenil and eight followers
rcr reported executed al Cut-n
Orandcs.
SO WORD RECEIVED
FROM THE REFUGEES
Tiilk of Semilog; Heller Trnln
From 111 I'llsn.
V ' so, .l.iu t'l A u.sctiger mini
.i Ann rlcin aboard I l'"t on
t r l.x ;hi eleseit between Pnrr.il llll'l
(' i-i.i Tile Alllerte.MIH .'ire tl'tlllg
i- bandit lit't .1 teriltury. ne
-- -.-i" Lansing warned !. i j. .ire
ti 'lie safe-'v of the Amct leans.
1 . ' -I ir '."s! train from Chum ilui.i
-, -.-. I Lit. tn-ilaht. but ini.t-.ol
Vn rl.ail.- It lulltll'lieil I. lit hw
- .l-iltl't c Ulie.
' I -mi in to Madei.i i.r'.'ic'i'
( ' e Mm IlintlS It wos - ip, " !
.. '.,.iv . i Uen. lose It I'lgue.v
iO ' at l ie Villa leader was . e-
i :.! w is no Ii.hU ahoir.l
ii a ill -I i roil w-i j'k tli.it
' i- ii. Willi, a Villa hadei. and
e- . s mil ,ptuiel and ixe-
fj i ''is. is Jnilnlo-. I
I.tlKIIlK Ol sclllllllg
do'
1 ef train fnmi .lu.iri?. unless
i an- are lieu til fioiu lu a few
, the aleiiie of Miessages
..it.il tor 'he past thlity
'I'l-.'igti inaiiv messages have
ft beie to Americans In
. .i ill nt view of the fact that
hi i tll. l.ils held up for many
- in. ss.ia-s mit of I'hiliiiahiia
-lav tellliiL- nf the Simla
s .nr.-. Z I. Cobb, I'olieiiorof
I I.I 'M. Oil IIISII Ill-tlllllS fll, 111
"i, -lart'd an luvi silgatlon in
i t -ei nun nf the telegraph
I.I P
t'.at
7'inies.
It -gllez
illseilssliig the
is thail. said
it.- t .1.1 thai .loe !odllgil"Z. the
i. inn .i in l.-i- who is alleged to
n .-inMble for the wanton
f Mi" Aineiieaiis at Santa
' i been i.ipttircil and l-NI'l-llled.
,il llllisllilu ex mole tangible
1 'h pri'.nluie should be forth
' hi Hie mere announcement
u i. in i. -la sour.es. Perhnfw
.- .lead, le oil the other
' ip he is not Who knows-.'"
fnmi iind llrrn'.d s.-venly
li, ,,inm of the fulled States
-"ig tii"ii an liniueillate ex.
t ,- ,.f the bandit baud which
1 1' Allielle.lliK
ll'.uhl ins'M that the f nlted
..I mi' 'anaira ten da.vs in
n l i. e the baudilH. dead or
, .i oinply being met by
I lie ile.pntih of American
" Mexico to diploic the ban.
VII
Jits
IrieUinu Ibi Iliii-Uliolle.
I, '."i nun' in whli h the
-, lias given I'arianzn to
n, in .lit the ''mi calls
A .i 11,1 walling of I'lesnleiit
iii, iite 7 'mi i a-iHcrl. "lilvu
1, - iv. ill, ml t e hai lilione neic.
"i ,.M tin- lives of eighteen
.zii.s liav been il.i i tn.-.l by
' ""Wi I H of the irstwliile leader
i tin Villa, the American ilov
1 in ipo.-as granting the tie tacto
- i unlimited time lu whli h to
' am) capture them," mijh the
" 'le facto government fun en
" Villa was they would not
' i live to even go In that ill-
i , Ii less to make an effort to
n iiinl Ills followers The Idea
ranisUH running the Vllllst.iH
ibsiird lilvlng the lie facto
' i .1 -in, re Hum In which to re.
in Mexico Is equally prepoH.
I-1. ,
Onlered In Stay III I'. S,
SI leichei. f nlted Slate Consul
"' ' li ' i. inn. i city, orelered by IiIh fiov-
ie i' to return to IiIh station from
I teii.,,.,r;iry lesldene-e In HI Paso,
1 'te In Ikih been teshtlng since all
' ''-.llli- wen iideed out of Villa ter
' '"r w is. stopped Inst night by a Htnte
''flMii'tient inesa.igii after he had
' .-').ei the iinpnt In Juarez to hoard an
' idling iinin Into .Mexico and In
Hril. leel In leiiinin III Ml Paso.
H''ieep Hurst aked the Mexican Con-
il to-i(,n in Nent enough lroo)H to Ciish
' -.i.i'b-- t-. protect Ih" Moriivm colonist
' ere wi that they can slay nnd gather
' "' rops
I'oner Painter of fhlcago an lied here
In- tati mght in Join J, S, llollls, man
" "g ilireetor of the Cusl Company, In
l"vemig.iing the killing- of the com
pan;' employeeH last Monday and a
Coaibiiirti on Fourth Page.
wilson seeks harmony
WITH party leaders
President Decides to Consult Them on All Important
Matters in an Effort to Prevent Serious Antag
onism MeAdoo
Wahiii.vutok, Jan. Hi. President
Wilson and IiIh ndi'lscr how a dlsposl
tion ti( "(-it together" with their party
leader lu Oiiisreii.v It was slow com
tin., hut It Ih here.
Thin ha been eVIdrnced not only by
tan iiolllle.il family dinner given by See
lef.iry MeAdoo last night to talk over
leM'iiuu h Kinlatwn, but the I'reoldelit
albo h.i. let It be known that he desires
tonrerenteM with hi leader). In CoiiKrem
and that they will be railed In.
It may be that an Incident of the holi
days hantem-d' this pohe. Member of
the l-'orelKn ltelatloii!. Committee of the
Semite were In open revolt at that time
bt-cauiie tile I'tcclilent had none forwaid
ullh Austrian negotiations In rt-K.-ird to
the Aik-oii.i affair without een eoimult
liid hU party In the Senate commltti-u
and In fact iiKiili.st the aihlce of Chair
man Stone of that committee adilce
that wan volunteend. not aiko. for
It waj about that time that an Infor
mal conferetue wan held and word sent
out that neveral members of tho I'rcsl
detil'a own party In the Committee on
l-'orelsn Iterations were saylnK openly
that tho I'ri-sldent did not have the sup
port of his party leaders In the Senate
In his Austrian lolicy.
t Tl to (he I'rrKlilrul.
The l'reldi'iit was then on his lione
moon at Hot Sprliuts. Before his re
turn hU elosest advisers were K-eklr.R
eiI.intitlous of tho cause of the party
sclnni and they learned that many
Senator felt that the President should
consult more freely with his leaders on
matters lu which they felt they had a
risK)nlblllty almost 'as Kre.n 'as Ins
own.
Asur.Uice- were Kiven that liereaftei
party leaders would be called In ."-i-sulfation.
Co: fereiices have been fre
Muent since Secretary linltiK took the
lead by tisstirtni; Sen tlor Stone that Ills
advice was not only desired but would
be s'licht. It Is a fact that Senator
Stmie lias since been an almot dally
viltor at the White lloue or the Statu
lieparttnetit He l.'as been consulted on
the MeMc.in policy and on nearly every
other phae if dipt iinatlc relation".
President Wilson probably felt the
ni-,.a:ty of appeallm; siieclally to party
l.aders In Com;res for unlteil supjKirt
lie will not be able to command It. but
w ll need all that he c.i'i t Then, are
pen b,..its that the Administration de
fence pionraiiuuo will never itet through
tl e lloue
In th' Senate more than one of the
Democrats say that the President will
brain a sub-danllal inciease for th
na. ii-U all he .-el5, but at Increase,
but be.ioiul that he will not net far with
ADMITS PLOT TO RILL
PARENTS, POLICE SAY
f'liicnuo Youth's stor ol' Mur-
ih'r 1'liniN Kccordcil hv
Hiftiii:riitli.
Chichi... .Ian ph to murder
his father, niolhei and siler while the
sb-pl to-night vi as i onfesn il. according
to the police. b a twent.v-otii-eiil-obl
son who net used Ins brothel, eleven .veins
older, of leading in the eoiispiiaev. A
ilii-tagiaph told Ihe sioiv to n llslenlng
steiingraihei', who. Willi ill lei lives, was
hiihlen hi a ilntkened garage. The motive
was ascribed lo the nniioiiiu einent Ihat
the fathet, a tetllc.l grain broke! of Oak
Paik, was nboul to draw a new will dls
intierllitii; both sons
The father Is fiiiiuaii D. f fi'llke
voiuigei son Is llerbeit fpdlke.
inolhel Is Irvlllg flidlke Thev
The
His
Im III
lived with their
parent In ak Park,
West Side suliuih
Iloth hrothets wete urn-sled lo-nlght
hv the p.'lhe living flidlke Is n mem
bet of Hie Hoard ol Trade.
i:ei detail, the police MS, hid been
llanniil bv the two brothers. The. had
prepiivil to lift a ladder to the up-o.i'ts
window opening ml" the bedroom wln-ie
their parent slept The had bought
masks to hide their faces, tiiey hid
ropes lo bind the enupic, a silencer had
i OII...1 1,. ill,, eon Willi which thev
had expected to shoot their victim and ,
all nutoniolille was leany io o.isn .t.
Willi the two boys o the drainage
canal near l.ockport, where thei had
planned to throw their weapon ln'o
the water.
The father was told nf the plot a
Meek ago h the .ninger son
A dlciauiaph w is installed In Hie
basement. wh"ie the two brothers mi
ni disdiss their plan' Ii was connected
r.vilh the gniage. This evening the two
veiling men nut in the basement to mike
th.-ir final pinj. The two brother, ae
.oidillg 'o the lecoid mad" b the
sieiiiLMiiphei. .-oinp'.etel.v retold their
lilinis for the murder, the older one tell.
Ins the lounger of the larious step ami
pes tloiis thev would lake iind of ill"
mot. ii triii to the canal.
GZMS WORTH $10,000 STOLEN.
Vlr. (.eorge lllrd's
Hie liolliiiio
Aiiiirtiiienl
llolilieil,
Mr and Mr. Henrge lllrd lost Jin.OfiO
urn tli of Jewelry from their iipariinent
nt tlm Hold Ootham, 2 West Flfl-llflh
stieet. while they wore iibseiil from
their apartment Saturday afternoon,
according to detective who wete work
ing on the case last night. Their trunk
were laiisackeil until Ihe thieves found
a ca said lo contain a necklace,
rings, hiacelets and other ornament.
There ale no clues,
Mr. Hlrd graduated from Columbia In
1. so. He I a member of the fnlon Club,
Tuxeelo Club nnd llni Itnoquet and Tennis
Cluli. Mr. anil Mr. Hlrd make their
home at the lint ham permanently. A full
list of the Jewel wn obtained by Ihe po
ll. e and acnt to the pawnbroker
BALKAN 'EXPRESS STARTS,
Trnln I'rniii llrrlln Due In Con-
ulnnlliioiile To-dnr.
Sprcial Cable Itetpateh lo Tim Si x
HkiiI.in. via Amsterdam. .Inn 11. The
IPHt llalknn expies left Herlin for Con
itantlnople eterday morning, via Dn--den
Vienna, lldgrndn and .Sotln Tim
train I dun nt the Ottoman capital early
o-moirow morning,
Plneburst, N, C, centre of outdoor tpnrt.
Iol!.Crol(n, Holly inn, Utrsmhlr. Now
Dinner r irst Step.
111" pivposuls fur Increasln nnnnine tit.
On other iUestlons there Is a wide
lireach In the party In Connress. There
are serious differences over the tariff.
The pioposcd ta. on gasolene Is ills
lasluful to many leaders, letters hav
been publtsned within a week In Western
newspapers lu which temncratlo Con
Kiesmiya Ihm- Kinn a'sur.inces that no
tax will be put on gasolene or autos,
Other suuKesilons of the President
for a ta on Iron nnd steel fabrlcatiuns
and pig lion are also discredited In
letters to the folk "hack honii " lust
as Congress was on the point of taking
up the President's rccummend.Hluu for
the repeal of the free sugar provision
of the t'tiiterwood'Hlmmons bill u tpinr
rel developed In Congre among Ueino
crals. .Man of them object to the re
peal. One of the tnol disturbing of the
proposals emanating from Administra
tion sources Is the plan to build up
the dyestuff uiliiitr b high protec
tion. Ill the face of I he lloiirboti opposi
tion on the Democrat lo side of the
house a protective measure for the die
stuff Industry bids filr to p.is. one
drawn by that w neclhort-e of protec
tion. Hbeneier Hill of Connecticut.
Knnugh Democrat,, are already pledged
to It to assure Its leport l3 the Ways
and Means Committee with the aid of
Itipiiblhau Mill's, i 'ne argument undo
for the nieisuro Is that a ilyestufTs
plant could easll be converted 111 time
of war to a mlhtari aseet.
The appeal to Congress for legisla
tion for the ilyesiulT Industry comes
not only from the manufacturers of
dyes aloii" but from manufacturers
who use the die They my that !f
the call be assiued of a continuous
supply of the article they would be
wiling to ny tho added cost that
might be lieces,it.v to place a protec
tive tariff on the article.
Th. Me iIimi lllnner.
Tn Democratic leadcis who d.nei!
with Secietar.v .MeAdoo last night ad
mit that thev had a cihiiI tittle, bin were
not enlightened verv much as to the
Admlnletratlon' revenue pollov If
there has been any complaint expressed
by the Presldi lit against the opposl- '
Hon within the patty It was not ills-
"t-oei last n'ght. i
Sectetarv McAdon did ay while lp-
tillli tl'.H ilrtllt.t.'iss.. Ih.if .ii. ....-I. .id. '
Journmi-iit of Coiigicss was desirable,
This was met b a prompt repl- that
such a hojie would not be ri allied
Theie !. hope among those w ho at
tended the MeAdoo illnner that It was I
but a preliminary to friendly relations
and that conferences upon the serious
questions of legislation wll fallow
DUEL WITH GERMS,
DOCTOR'SCHALLENGE
liii'imo's llctilili t'oiiiiuissiiui.
cr Mcficd lit l-Yllow I'rofcs.
sioiiiil to Such ii Tcs),
fllicviio. .Ian K - "ilrnllemen. choose
otir germs'' t s ;, ,ue with dlse.c-e
lode'l 1 terla as tile u canons The
I challenge was given to-inglit. To.. ,ru.
oipals are Dr .loin, Dill ltol.itsuii.
j Health Conuiiissiiiner. ami Dr I'harlea
I K. M flsi-liei Time, place and seconds
I have- not be. n ag ti t .rit et
' iiuesilon or lu-. Iu.il honor and of,
public health Is at slake The dial,
h'tige call fr a scttlvm lit of the
HUestlnn b a lest or bacteriological
kliowleilge, with vindication f. r !... win.
in r and disease and posstbli death for
the loser.
There has neon a war between Dr.
l-'lsch.-r ana Dr. Ilol.erison for i-cveral
wei ks.
"Th" ollhe nf Health C.iiiinilssloiu r
Is ai-iiiire.l thioiigli politic." saui Dr.
l-'ist-hi i in talking nver ih- proposc-d
duel to-ila "Pelsoii.illy 1 cjo not be
lieve that Dr llol.ertsi.il would know- the
llilfclellce between a staph oi llii-us Mild
an elephant "
following tin- exchange f m.mv ver.
bal volle.v s. Di. Fischer Issued to-night
the following proposal for a "dud with
K''r"lh" :
I'liU we will loth pi rsonally pie-
pare Hie eiilliiies of g.-t m. all of coln.
inon t.vpe. three of them non-pathogenic
and two of f ii-iii pathogenic.
'Second, through a lef. ree mutually
selected, we will exchange tile pri-jian-il
culture
"Third, each of us will personally
examine and diagnose the culture and
pick out the time harmless ones.
"Fouiili, to show- our faith In our
ability lo plik out the harmless germ
troin th, il o ji 2 1-in i.n one we wll) 1 1 1 1 c-1 1 -lale
ourselves with tluoe cultures we sc.
lect as the safe ones."
.Sow It is up to Dr ltohertoii
PAPEN'S CLOTHES IN PERIL.
Iti-lnliieil 'I'liem Oul b the l.rnee
of Hie llrltlsli Xnvj.
?,ccni table hekpfitcft tit Tnr Si v.
l.oNi'OX. Jan. 17 Winn I'-ipt, von
Papen. the lecilb-d iie-iiit,i, mil I 11
nttache at Washlngloii, was hehl up al
faliiinuth he Hutu. shed llii: safe con
duct which had b.eu glieu lo him by
the llrltlsli iiovirnitieni at Ihe request
nf the fulled Stites Stale Dei arlnieiit
nud demanded Hint he lie nllawcd to
ptoceed umnolcsteil.
The fniincr nltache was ml teb In
formed that the safe conduct only con
lemed his body nnd Ihat the fict that
lie win. allowed to retain hi clothes
was entirely an act of grace nf the
llrltlsli navy At Ihat Cnpt von Pnp"ii
used very uncoinpUuien'iir' I'imcirigc
lu I'lngllHi and sin rendered with bad
grace Ihe document; lie cnrrl.nl
INFANTICIDE IN BEAR PEN.
Wicked Mother llmtni) llrnln
llnbles In llreini no.
The beam lu the llronx Zon have been
killing otT their young so lasl that the
kef-pei fear there will not he any little
bearH for the louugHters to laugh al
next spring, l-'iulek, n hi grizzly, tint
had three 1 1 1 1 to grizzlies a few day ago,
killed (wo of Iheui on Saturday nnd
yesterd ty held the thlnl under water
with her big paw until II drowned,
Olga, the Russian brown benr, Ims
developed cannibalistic lendenclen. Yen.
tcrday ohe ate her two offsprings.
NAVY KNEW DEFECTS'first picture
OF EDISON BATTERY!
I'uitIiiisc by the PppnHinoiiti
for I'se on the K-2 AVns
Only Conditionnl.
IT KKLEASKD HY 1)110(1 ex;
Hutchison. Inventor's Aid,
Visits Wreck on Hunt for
Ciiiisc f Explosion.
WAsiitNiiTON, .Ian. II. llecoinnienda
Hon by clectrlc.il experts of the navy
for the purchase of Hie Kdlson battery
which n Installed on the submarine
IM'. it was 'authoritatively learned to
night, was only conditional. Iballr.lim
that the battery contained certain more
or less f.-rlous defects, the bureau of
ftenm eiiKlnefring, II was said, ieivim-
mended that It should be Inst'alled on
the K-'.' and l.-S with the understanding
that the purchase should not be con
summated until these defect had been
remedied. It Is further stated tlat Mr
Kdloi' was having certain alteration
tried it the time the explosion occurred
yetrday.
Cntitniry to statements made but night
It was learned from oftlcitils of the bu
teau that one of the problem still to be
met at the time the accident occurred
wn overcoming the danger of explosion
due to escaping hdrogen gas at the. time
the battery was being discharged In
the statement Issued by Assistant Secre
tin of the Nnvy Roosevelt It was .-ud
that expel Intent had shown that this
ga is. i,ed to an :ii,ireclahle extent
mil when the battel was being eh treed
iiflliei of the bun au said to-night,
In, never, that the greatest escape of this
g-as nlvvav mem ml when the battery'
was b.-lt.g illschatged. a matter of par
tlctllat concern in view .if the f.cct that
in cruising the batterv illscha-Rcil on'
when the suliiuar.ne was rutin. ng un.b-r
W.'Ct" I
To iiverionn- this it was vm the f-2
was provided w Itli twice the unial num
ber nf ventilator, which operated under
i for I system when the veel wa
mid"! water With these ventilators It
was possible to remove tin- escaping
hdnen rap.dlv a to prevent Its
accumulation While the gas Is not of
the s. is., mni .io'rties c li.r..ct-rltl
of the chlorine fume given olf fiom the
older t.vpe of silt water ulphuil- add
electro! to. It i" highly explosive audi
could lie set nff In a spark fiom an
exisised iiMtor nr the blowing out of a '
fuve ..r fiom a lighted c.g.ci In the
I-Mi'iin battel fie hilro-en gas was
create i! by elect i ol te, the prlnc-lpcl
reagent of vvlilch ale nlckeldioti idatv,
flesh water and a potassium salt.
Secretary Daub-Is returned to-day
from New York and to-nlglit lsuect
till statement ; "I legret the pllb'ha;
Hon of a statement quoting me as glvl
ng an oplnl.il. n- to t'l" cailt-e ..f the
evplosiiin mi i ,. l.ntn. dlatelv llpoii
lieinng of t.i, .,.',, I. hi 1 1 1 1 n ti i ii u i en I ei 1
w Ih lb ir V.lmiral I'sltcr, . ottiiiiainhiiil
if the New Vork Nav.v Vnid He has
appoillteil ,i Is.ai'i niiw In s ssi. .ii to
investigate ttie metier I aiti nut ' t
in possession of In'.irm.ition which wntibl
eli.lt!.' 'Ill In state the call" of the
ii-'lili'iil and I snail let l- able t.
n.iKe MI'-li a statement until the i.lllcial
repeirt-- are before nie '
uurcmsos at wreck.
lldlsieii's
Defends WeelUInu eef
ll-'J llnlleri.
lie
fi is! tin. ruing until dark ves-
tenia the niv.it board of investigation
nppolntid 1. It. ar diii tal Nalli.iinel It
fslier. ci.itimaiiil.int of Hie Brooklyn
navy .v.itd. woikid li.ml to get al Ihe
fll"t l.ltlse of the explosion which
wteckeil the Intel leu- of the' I'lllliil Slates
Mibmar'ne I !'.', killed one rultMcd man
nnd tluee ,ird vvorkiiieti and s-rn.us1y
Injured leu olio r working on Hie sub
n i.i 1 1 li" hi ill dock early Satiinlay after
noon. Admiral fslier. ace i.nip.nilcd b) Miller
Hefsi. Hlltdllson. e Illef eliglliec'i of tile
Kdlsoii plant at Orange and personal
le presentatlve of Mr. IMIson. i liiiibid
down among Hie toin ami twlstnl lulling
ami inadiliier nf Ihe during the
morning to look over the wreckage Mr.
Hutchison was pat denial ly lnter.-lei in
the sllblll.irllie beialle it was Ihe only
undersea lioat in the navy iqu pped with
Hie new K.lisoii storage halter
Tile Old llleol as to the aiise of
the an i, I, 'tit offi-rcil on Saturday wa
that probably h)ilrog'ii Ills-rated from
Ihe IMisnii nickel bitteiy while the bat.
tei.v was being discharged had ex
lilniled. A brief statiinent Issued by Mr.
lliilihiM.n last night i oncltiih d vv it ti the'
assertl'iu that his investigation of lite '
Intel lor of the submarine sboneil that
"the batle-iy lu the i;.; doi not nipear
to have been Injuied In the least " 1
"1 have niaile as couiiilele an Inspec
Hon eif ihe Interior of the as inndl
tlnns will nduill." Mr llulchlson ai 1
In the liitenieut he gave inn at his
home In l.levi ell n Fam. N" J. "This
liifpcctlnu was inaile a Mr IMlt-ou
chief engineer nnd personal lepn i-eiitn-tlve,
and I have foiiued a tentative
opinion
"This I have 1 1 .i tisin! 1 1 ei (,, ihe com
nrindatii of Hie New Vork Nai.i Yard,
Uhiler whose Jin siictlnu I lie bon'wa on
Saturday It Is subject lo levlKlnn when
all the facts an- In might forth bv the
boat. I or liiquliy vv huh Admiral fslier
has ordered.
I'nllb In IlilUoii llnller.v.
1 "Having been in cent at ihe in.lini,-
u. try iiisiiection I innsiilei I am bound
by the same tubs and regulations as Is
i a naval officer hi iii.itiern of i-oullib'iitlal
' nnluie and must infer nu lo Admiral
. fsl.ei for such Infni inallnn as he m.i he
' In a 'loMtlnii and liicliiie.l to give.
"Ah lo the IMImoii battery, with the
faciH and i ninlltloiis before me, tee no
reason lo leconiuieiul to Mr. IMIson anv
changes or alleratlotm In the ilifor.i,
i-onslriictlon or nielho-1 o Install, itlnu nf
'the IMIson ubin,ii'ine type storage hat
i leiy. The batleiy In the IJ.2 dors not
appear to have been Injuieil In Hie
leat-t."
Although Mr Hutchison would not
leny delliillely that Hie now lype nf bat
jlery wa not rci-pnhielhle In any way for
the explosion, bin insuiTr in further
nuesf oil miiile II plain that he believed
the en iim of Hie accident la somewheie
else. When asked If It cniilil have hem
po'sible for lb" cells, lu charging in iliw.
chaivuig. to have given off enough
liyelrogeti ga lo have explode-l with
seilou lesullii he said .
"In Ihe lest lo which the new bit
terli'H wi'ic Niibje.led miller actual
working conilllioii It was found that at
(hict mi iippieclahlc amount of hydrogen
gas wioc given off but Hie amount
sleadlly diminished until after nine hour
It was only I .."! cubic feet a minute
"Suppose, for an Illustration, thai In-
Conlliiticif on Mfrif I'wr.
llFEP!F.Fl
CRCS--Jxm
S csKi -EBm , '-4MiHB?u':.Tr ,"x
'PHIS is tlte tirst photograph of the (lurmnn and
IJiiltrariatt military chiefs, ttikcn shortly after
the Teuton ami Hulpar forces joined hands at Hwa
Pakinliu, in the bend of the Dnnulie. on October '7
last, preparatory to the onslaught against Serbia
which resulted in the complete subjugation of that
country. The photogrnph was taken nt I'arauhin,
Serbia, on November lt.
In the picture, from left to right, are I'ield
AUSTRIANS ISOLATE
ALL OF MONTENEGRO
Kuh (inn to Ml. I.ovrpii.i
.Mine Cut turn llm hor null
luiM'isoii Miiny Cifieiis.
e,..-.il i ,i le o.;-, (c. in Tnr Si
ll.iMH, Jan ei It i eticmev dlf-tlc-ti.t
to forecast el ve ,.p'i,' nl n Moil-;
tcni-gio. wb 'h an- expected t,. he esn
llon.cl s.nce the Autr!alis now 'nn
pletelv dniiiiil.ite the 'Ituation Hewnlcs
... clipping I.1. Itmje. IM" c-apll.il thev
IlllVe 1 .1.1 II I . -1 mine fields Hillside Allt'-
varl and San iilovaiuu di Medil.i. thll"
cluing conimunlcatloii b sea. cut
eel the w'rcles nit-1 pra. tlcally Isolated
Moiltetieuro
I'll.- Aiislrlan- nave firo-laiineil ,i
state of snge .1 ii'tt.njo and m e ar
r.eie.l inntn mil citizen on suspicion.
Meanwhile guns an b.-ing nioii'i'- ' ni
Mount l.oicen and irinchc ale b.-Ing
dag .iioiinil Catl.er.. Ti.ree divisions
of infanir.v with h.-aiy nrtlllei have
been s,.-it to S.uiin and rienfoice
ni. nt ale being com "titrated at Cet.
tinj. In c-ise the an- needed to te.
p.iise en alt ick on S' ut.irl.
The w heiealiouls ..I King N'lhola
b unknown to the puhle There Is an
mi, onlirni'-il r. p-ii' 1I..1'. In I o" lu
wai to Iti!. I'l.wn Prince D indo
is ill ill health and 1: I sil-pictcd thai
lie has tiil'ciciilo s. He : In ItoiiW
as lb" guest of King Victor f.itiiu.in
uel The- Seibian Cabinet Mlnlsiei. In
clmbng Premier P.i.hitdi, arrived at
Hilndisi to-il.e Tin- Premier is citn
ng to I'oiue. but It Is llllllki 1 that
the Sitblali iii.verntnent nil' be trans
fi rred permanentl to Hal The Mln
Isiry w ill probibly go to Frame
MAY SPLIT CABINET.
Vlooli-oeurlii Inibroullo lias serious
llrlecl III Hole.
rc-il' '.iMV lt"ixiti It Tar Six
lioMi:. Jan. l'i -A a result of t'e
Monteni'gl 'ti In btogllo changes in the
Italian Cabinet an- leported as possi
bilities It 1 lion' known that King Victor
Uirnanuel came 1" Home from the
Italian-Austrian front as a result of Ihe
ib-vi lopnients In Montenegro The fallute
of Hal to send help to the Montenegrin
Is blannsl b.v the prc for the fall nf
Mount lsev.cn ami the entry of the Aus.
trlahs Into fettlnje.
SERHS TO RAISE 100.000.
Wnr Minister llles Will !et
rio In Tcvo Vloolbs.
I'aiiis. Jan le". A cbspatcli to the
7 ci.ip'
final
ahum
dated Frlil.-i,
a) s
"fol Heimlich. Ihe Seibian Mlulsier
of Win. b-lore stalling from heie foi
llrlnriiel on Hi lireek destro.ier Veins,
said Serbia would oflcr the Allies in two
months a completel reorgauliccd aim
of ifto.einn men.
"The .Minister isiikl the llulgiirlans
vvi-ie adi an. lug In Albania under tlie
gieales! ilillliullles, owing lo the lack
of io.nl He added that despite the
lt'ilian dlsemliai katton In Albania It
will be necrMir.i for the Serbs to leave
the i ounlr.v "
NAVAL EXPERT ASSAILS GREY.
Sufm Hi'llUli fleet f iilinliiperi-il
Could llliM'Unile Heriiiiui .
I.ox'pon, Jan II'.. -An attack via
made on Sir Kdward Uiey, the. Hrlllsli
Foreign Secretin. In n icecli lien lo
eh, by Thomas Ullison llowltti, noted
as a naval expert. In which he said.
"Sir IMunrl Ure.v lui held Ih opln
l(n thil Herman' niut not lie stnived.
l'or li decade lie ha Hied to mil tender
our inn i it line tight He went In The
Hague III I il 'ni vicp.ucd to ahimlnii the
rights of coiilralnind search ami capture
In irtiiin for Hie lllusoiy piomlse of
universal illt..irni.inieut And even to
da he Is hampering the light iiinl duly
of the licet to Inflict Ins on the enemy"
The Foreign Dllice, Mr Howie added,
fenred the neutral. A Hr!tlh blockade of
Herman', he ald, would be completely
effectual If the ravy were allowod to
make It effectual.
of conquerors of SERBiAlgygp FORCE
Marshal von Mnekensen, commander in chief of the
Austro-Germun armies of invasion; Dulgnriau Staff
Olllcer Stantchetr, (Jen. Jenkow, commander of the
Hulgarian right wing; Col. (Jantselieff, Bulgarian
Military Attache at Herlin; Major-(!en. Tappen of
the (ierrnun army. .Miijor-Cien. von Secckt of the
tJerman army, Crown 1'iince Horis of liulgariu and
'ion. von Kulkenhayn, Chief of the (icrman General
Staff.
U. S. WILL NOT RECOGNIZE
ANY PAPER BLOCKADE
Britain's Proposed Proclamation Against Teutons Must
Include Baltic in Proscribed Zone German
Embassy Scoffs at Intended iMove.
W" IslllMIToS. Jan 1! T e fifed
Slab Hill not 1 e-c -'S-ll.e the p. opus, el i
new l.io.'kail" ef ekrm.in.i bv Hicit
Mrltaln unliss It Is made absolutely
en.stlv.
To be .al to the c.v.-s of the f tilted I
Males sui tl a bhs-kade mlit not only
giiille tin- shores of Herman on the
North S.a but mint extend lulo the
l.iltl S.a ,111,1 be able ..rfi-.-tlv.-ly to toe. I
vent all .tit.-r oure across this body of 1
water betw.Mii the S.-andlti.iv 1,111 conn- '
trie and 1 !ermany I
Information of tills aMlunlc of the
fulled Stnte wa obtained to-night'
from highest oftl. ml sou'.-cs in Hie Mate
Dipaitincit The stand which tills
coutitrv will take. It wa .b-dareil. it
will I..- able 10 forth mi Ii i-
Tlie f nitid Slates will insist that the
bio k.l'le to be elTeCllie intlsl operate
against trade between all iieinra1 coini-
tiles and e ic rm. 111 ami that It will not,
so opctatc utile- Neirwa S.veilcn and -Deiiinaik
are n 1 ems tivd shut oft ftmn
c-omnu-rclal lull rco'ioe with Herinany
a the fnlte.i Stau-c, Holland and other
neutral countries
Tbrenl h Ibe
l.ermnii.
llC'll S U IS s.lhl
In lb rm. in Ihnbas.s
that if Ureal llllt.llll .Ctempts to petie
irate the lla'.tic foi ihe iur f o
tablisl nig a l.loikail" she veil have to
under! ike the ino-t 'i i.'.ardous naval
enott o. in.- wai v ess,... sen- into i ne
l.iiiio..cS"'l re... i is .-..i.i, .
ji .-.ei io S'l n viii'.ioiis iiiLiini 1 1 - in
iibiii.it im-.-. bi s.dis belns foi ted topis
thiouuh mlfe fields, a to cause tre- ;
mend -u- 1 (
Herman l.mbi otllcia.s believe that
Hie it llrlta.n date no' make udi an
attempt and knows that she dees not
Tin refine, the- declare thet utile- the
.1 .. ...o.l . 1 ..u ii, ortr, li.-rii lo,..n... '
will 1. siiphielv content to peim't ipe.u '
Hritaln to blockii le iibopitel tln-ir ,
Noi'h Sea co.i-ts. all Hi. tall; of i new '
black ije s nothing more than t ilk
f nolllclally the State Department ha
been advleeil to (he inntrary. The De
pariment lias been given to understand
that a lilockiob will soon be fr ocl. timed
ami that probably Ure.it llittain will
seek to avoid the necessity of ibterti'g
Hi. Haiti-.
That is why il ,s Indicated it Is mad
to suggest the line of protest which
the fulled States may make. Hi (he'
other hand It is said Ihat an effective
blockade, omi that would be operated in 1
the way the fluted States would bold
pecessar.v lo be effective, would In man
lespe.t linpiove the situation from the
st.imlsilnt of the fnlted Slate
Never I'roeliilineel llloeliiiele,
Vthough Ureal lit 1 1 .i In has In several
i-omnioiilcatlotis to ihe fnlted S'atc.
referied to her piescnt expedient as a
blockade, she has never asserted 'liat It
Is technically a hlodtade, and the fnlted
Slates has conslsientlv contended that
It not one litc.it llilla'ii iid.ipleil Hie
expedient of ind"r in Council, vvh.-rehv
she pris'lnlnied her light to detain and
hold up f"i' ex uulnailoii and ptle court
(irooreillngs all caigoe of a contraband
ilnractci bound for or Iniended for
tiermany
lu Ibis coniieetlon he Mist set forth
what slie reganled as contialiand and
then expanded the list of article so
much a lo include virtually everv enm
tniMlit of ordinary trade. A she hi
'.I...I .l.lu Us, 1.,... nc.e eh.t iirnti.sts
fiuiu the fnlted State and other lieu-
ti-.il countlte have grown sharper nud
li .roee until Hie sltualloii ha been
reached wliere (lie.it llilt.iiii must either
boldly repudiate all the rubrics of In
ternational law with respect to whet I
contrail ind or adopt another expe.l'eiii
Willi Ilia fnlted State at the point
of forwarding wlmt libs been he'rahbil
a Hie hnrpet note of protest ct sent
against theHc contraband list exteulnno
It I iinw understood that Ureal Hritaln
ha under consideration the proclaiming
I of vi leiSular blocKadi-
Under a blockade system. State De
. h m
- i
pen -1.1 ..p. ,;
' i'.V . I .llne-i! u oil!. I
ixpl.i
to .in many f m.- thing!-
bl en ilm 111- 1 1 . .
nibs In-ten, I f .Kcvs ..,,1.1,,,. t..
1 ne .ei,. pieo
lii of 11 iitr.it mil articles never I,, fore "d I htlll advane log
s.i b r...l i . i i b i n, hi. could then' According to an ..lb. aunouiie e mem
.c,,.',Ki,v,-,!:,,1r:t,::anvn'o',M' or -'. .... ,, MM ,..
.Ventral s' ipj. suking to ..titer i i r- j Turks above Utah line.- d.i ago ,-uid
man irts c.u!, be , .uiM-.'iteil .is ,l ck- forced them to ntieat further. At last
loi.tn'!'.,','r",'V''1 l,,o,l,0'.'"' " ""ral'iccouiit the llritih w.-ie .1.11 In pin-
i Otihtlic. cunt L'lli'lls lo It.em.mt- wtol.l I
h ive
their cargo-. subjected t- the test
ill ! m.i tc d'-st nation" am! "conlimi-'
of
mis vo.vage" Tint .. i say. Itrm-b ' , liner, in conitnaiid or the lellef ex-crins.-is
I'm i1 I l,d, up siith sin, ,s take. ., .
the,,, in.. ',..,. porl . there be ' Jll1"1111""' "s "", ''''"" ','' !'"
I.n?..- co-nts ibtenmne fr. the pai.er ' Tl"rk1' "r"'-v '"'''""'" ' " '''
abi.erd vv enter Hi,, cargo. though com. ""' Turks had haiiipi-ie d .011-1.111.11.11
s.gn , t . neim 1! . ou'itr e. ar.. Im..,i.i..,l 1 ""' Piosns of the . xp. .lition lien
fo, Ull III. lie
I" st,.
i.'eiinan .!.-.(, 11.111 a,
ses i.tll. ial lie. 1,1'e.l (,,.
w u''l ie ! ot, lis meilt.
me leirueii ni aiisoltii" proof resting on
tin- Ib-li.sii nu-.hoiii, to -how tlini the
cugoes ,nri' fo,- u fm lie ibllver;. In
lieltlllll l'i the Ame.-nxili -U ! K
was lioiiit.il 1
oked the il-,.
'a. 1 In , .lime.
tit. t a- Cnit.il State in-'r'n-
of uliiin-.ite ibstina-
mil w.i.i n- its i i-arifom
csuliid to Mataniolos Mexico. Inn'
suspected .. tni i i,i.. nine-it of Ii.ivIiil-
tin- Confederal Slate, which were 1 -
lllg blockaded by fntoii tlects. ;l. (lll-.r
lii'ima.e .i-s:,,i!itlon
' Vk""r I slein I I led,
Iiilen-,i;li,i,a' Ian expets of the li...
ia:t ne t.t
though the
f S'ate sal.l ....-right thai al-
fluted Stales Supreme Court
, .i,h"il the . ontenil.vo
of Ureal llr lam
, urn i,,r sel.ll'.s of these clt'gnes w e r.
I l.iegill t.le- lie. islol
w as il'recleil ngauist i
Ihe pro irs of ultlmiite deslinatiou .lib.,
in. fed rutin r than against tne tight to
.l.vtilic tile doctrine of Ultllll.lle ileslln:,.
llni' ;
In estaltl.sh.' g i ho. hade it was s,li;.
g.st.il Uieat Hritaln .nud not without
lU.'tes. afetnp: ., ge-lei,! b'.i.-',.,de of
net.'ial c-oiiutnes In tci-he-n furope 'n
iich a no as to piohlhlt a. I trade be-,
''' i U c .untries and otln r u-utrel.
sue, as ni. i n ted Mates Mc- abs du'e '
P' oln'i.i on oi Had, .titeivour-e. I. was
-iiinl. i.uil.l lie on! against trade with
i id man and in
to c ttelnt le r Ii
th el end .-he would have
..-kail, to the llaltlc,
FRENCH TRUST WILSON.
Ill peel
No I . s. Mine for llloekmle
He-la volloii.
( ' I'll 1 -f.'e lltkimtrf. lo Tin Si
Pi. Jan ti! i 'oituiieiitinu ,u, the
I repotted plans nf Herlin in attempt to
Induce the Pn'ted State to press Ureal
' lliltaln for a relaxation of the bio hade
I of Herman' the 7 mini s.is.
"Uer-iun.v consi iita to make a ..t.-ctt.-.-
to Pieslduit W'llson-s hum iiiltari.inlsm
in order to exploit Ho sacrifice fur her
own pos :iiv adv tillage mh.iss,,ior
I von Heiiist.nff i unediali asked Wash-
iiiglon lo insist thai London slmuM niax
the blocll.lil,. of Uirminv, tlteieb) i-lapp.
, liig ii seiihe cqu.vibni to niillifying
1 the Ail'.V n.iial superlorlt in reium
I for tc.sti i.-tions on her sub marine pira,-
i "liK'li led In becoinim.- nierelv an
lin-oiii 11111, i ,. lo the communications ..r
,
,
Allies without linceilitit. this i .
"It Is Inconceivable th! r W'll,ort
doe not leillr.c. (hat the Ueruian siig.
g. siloiis form the ban. of ., lamentable
birg.un which perforce would lesuli In
Nnierl.-i'p ali.indnnlng hi r mniirellic ..,.1
'"rough whn-li II i
i Americi take aitlon
I "m vvbldi Ainerlcin
laipeil to make
The elioiM ms
' hnlty has eon.
of Ihe lidim
"ee rated lo tho rdlcf
ot leulon aggresston
vain, svmpathy of the
the Allie s
de-tnoiistrate the
fmieil Slates for
fount von lleriistot ff is iinst.ii.en f
lie thinks tint Herman A i en 'an inilu
ence will Induce Presldciil WlUoti to
show a less conclllalni y attitude toward
Uieat llillalu on a question of material
liiteiet than lie slioived toward Her.
many on a iiirstlou of wholesale maiis.i.
.res Involving American victims."
noiuPQ tudic
BACK ON TIGRIS
JJritisli foliuun l)ravinr
Nciir Releauered Troops
al Kut-el-Ainara.
nTOJiAx.srArtJUT
IJKTWKKX TWO FIIIKS
IJeMiiiiption of a;.(iad
Drive, lo Follow Ul'liup;
of Kilt sieye.
RUSSIAXS PKKSS 0:
CAPTTIIK KKXd'AVAR
Czar's Army in Caucasus
Also Victorious Over
Sultan's .Men.
im iill itMe lrlintrli tit 'I'lir. M
Iinini.. Jan, i;. on each of tho
Hire.- principal theatre- in the Near
fast, widely separated but mil (depend
ent, the Turk hale sulfered st.ou set.
backs within the last two ila.i- In Meso
potamia the Hrltlh lelle f for. .. inarching
lo the aid of the army lo, lied up nt
Kut-el-Ainara has elilven th" Turk
twenty-five miles t.oithiv.ini along the
Tigris
lu Pel pin the llllssl.llls lino liceiltlv
took the cit.v of Hamad 111 hive cap
tuiesl the town of Ketig.iv 11, Inlf wa
between Hamad. in and Kermaiihhah,
which Is in the hand of Hi" Turks
Iloth plans lie 011 1I1. tool to Itiirlail
This Itu-Man sin . ess nil eilouly
-iffeci the Tiltkisli c.i 1 11 1 .. 1 c-t 1 'ii Meso
potamia In the Ceu. asiis the t . .t.t . .t-. ... I tu.
hUiis have launched 11 new offensive, on
h lfln mile front. A five el iv battle re
sulted 111 a ib-feat of th" Turk In the
K. iv aril 1-,- icglcii
Tile llrittsj'.i force whic.i iieeulli
atarleel from lann-Ali-i lln i'l. 10 the n
11 1 oe Itntish ,,r,f "r ,-"'-""" Hrl'is'i li..ps Isitlb-d
tlie- legal right I tip at Kut-rl-Aluaia. ixl-iu.. mlle.s
w'llch lie ha i further up "he Tigris, have n,. lied iirah.
. t ent IIV e mills fl-oill
K 'II -el-Aui ir.l.
"""'
An ollkinl lenoit leceivrd t . cjiii Urn
.xylinei s aimv ll.-i
Aylinei's aimv (b
troops to i neat
t t . .1 I In- 1 1II0111.111
.mini stwanl along
I tile Tigris
Those operation show Ihet the mln. f
fence, l.fler being die. Im ,I b ,r Tllrk'l
al Slielk Sai-l on J. mi, iiv- ij iiinl
about lift mile I w Kut-el'Amura,
lias covere-il Inor. than half tin- distance
between that vollit .111.1 the lllltt.-h lib-
Jc.-tlve
Il tlie defen-l.-l s of Kut-d-Aiiiaia
ni-i.iagc- I.) sin i ii- en in is.. ,. break
1 "'""'Sb tin- Tutltish in.s n... Siihnn
'"""1 Will be in ixtn-ne pen!
'
1 .,, Drive on lltimln.l ,Uflv.
j ,;v f ,;f. T..w ,,sh. n.l i ,..
I Ivut-e l-Aiii.ira only sip i-one- n lioldlee
Ut until ( Ii--t .oui. wr, mil, i;,,,,
A liner's louv. be n ,, p.. -it p, ini,.
i "" ottetislve ag iuus' l'i, rn i,. . .,
llritish
Hive on ll.igd.i.i .I mid In lli
uigiia! coiisi ,iien,
Th" text of til.
was a follows
W' ill. i (,, lenient
After tin ,r ileii at on Jat uai i x nnil
li tin- Ttiikisli ion.- .. noosing icn
A lin.-r ntii.'d to .. pos in, ii astride
tin- Tigris at nrali, iw ettl v -tl inile.
downstieam fn,m Kut l-Aiii.ira.
..'li Winn i atta. lied tin- position
on Jamjar) 1!!. hard lighting , ,,ntln.
ulitg till nightfall
Dm mg Hi" eion,ng ,.r .lanuar.v 1,1
and II the- enem i. g.n, in ivtlte,
and Is chisel) pies.., oi Hi., cist and
north b tlie HritlNli foni
It is apparent fnnu tms t,ieini!iil
that the icpori g ven out at Constan
tinople that in. mm m. ii had been left
at Kut-el-Atnara while in., -i.aln part of
tin- garilson had begun i mncat soulh
waid Is gioiindlis Win il tine, some
thing c.-italnl) would In ii". ml of en-
gag. -me lit between the Ha.llOl) Hlltlrll.
supposed to he Just ..null of Kut-d-Amain,
and Ihe Tinks tew ret tea Hug
befoie liie teiief luri e
Sluillllillieollsl) With till illlliouuce
inellt of tilts llrltlsli sip ,s Ihe Pelro
lti.nl War nftlcc Issued a lepoit sa.vlng
thai Hie liusstan folic- in Persia have
oci upied the p. un of Kenga it, a Utile
mote than thlrt miles soiithwc.et of the
Persian ell of I lam id. in. wlinti in In
thill hand-
Hussion tube It en ml v ie l
Till places the ltllH.l!i- about sl'Itv
two miles iiutlbeasl of He' uiausbab. lai"
week taken bv Hie Tin kith force- op
erating lu Persia Iloth pla.ew lie i,n
the .III c- t road Irom llam.idiii to llag
dad Tlie 11111.111 oil I. tal l pol l fol
low s
III I'eisia on the mail in Kiiman
slinh. wi occupied the town of Ken
gavar in Ihe llglii al l.cng.iVi.1 . uhiih Is
half Wll) between I l.illiail.iu ami Ivel
uiansliah. vu- tool some prisoners
'I he i ueiiiy left' niltneroils ilc.nl on the
Held of battle I mr losn-.-i wele In.
slgnillcant
SolltllcaslWiild nf Hamad. in . i wa
dniV" liai k a Tiii. o-Ueii an ib-llich-tiient
4
A Turco-lliissiiii i lash hciwii ii Keu-
B.ivar ami Ixeiinansnnii' is cxin'i led as
lhi' next big ib-vi lopiiicht in .Peisla The
1 outcome of tills clash will have 'an Im
' porl.inl bearing upoiJlie Kitulitloii li
i Mesopotamia, where Ihe llrltlsli nnd
I Turk are' lighting If the' ItiiHslan aro
I xlctorlous and pujli ilicir advance c utn
