FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
iMtitntx
interim
NIGHT
EXTRA
voin-No. 107
c
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 1910.
COPHtOItT, 1010. IT Till PCSUO I.IIMtlt COMCifT.
PRICE ONE CUNT
GARMENT .
WORKERS QUIT,
IS UNION CLAIM
rv -
,t.nn nnrl Girls Pack
f Armory, Waving Flame-
Kea rosters
Arbitration expected
Strikers Enthusiastic and Ex
pect Early settlement 01
Dispute
"Striking Garment Workers'
Demand Upon Employers
Arronlnnco bv the employers of
in agreement with their employes,
.which provides for n 50-hour week.
A maximum uj. iuui uuuio u
week night work.
A lb Pcr cent, increase in wages.
A minimum wage of SO n week
for women nnd $8 a week for men.
The nppointment of n Grievance '
Committee consisting of represent- '
tlvcs of the employers, the em
ployes and a disinterested chair
man. .
An Arbitration Committee, rep
resentative of employers, employes
and the public.
Supplying by the employers of
ttie needles, thread, tape nnd nil
materials used.
The strikers also demand the abo
lition of alleged favoiitism in giv
ing out piecework and tho equal
distribution of overtime.
POOR RICHARD CLUB DECORATES GRAVE OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
1 IT r mffiffimjwrz2sm
'wmM&M 44 'fill WMmiBSw S
BlPiillll iliilliliKSSal
23S
QUICK NEWS
FIVE DIE OF GRIP IN CATH0LIO-II0ME
Grip caused the death of one mnn nnd four women today at the
Little Sisteis of the Poor, Church lane above Musgrove street, Qer
niaiitowu. One hundred other aged inmates are suffeilng with the
disease. Di. John Moylnn, a physician In attendance, said that owing
to their ntlvnnced ages the old people wcie unable to stand the ravages
of the disease.
KILLS YOUNG WOMAN AND HIMSELF
rnoVIDENCE, R I., Jan. 17,-Mlss Melissa Budlong, 22 years
old 'laughter of Jruues A. Budlong, one of the best-known market
gnulcncis in the East, was shot and killed today hy Ciomwcll Whit
tle!, sou of a piomlucut diamond denier, who thcn committed suicide.
City Statistician E
tician E. J. Cattell made an address to members of the club who gntheied at the grave, at 5th nnd Arch streets, today. Wreaths
weie presented by President K. H. Durbin (wearing felt hat) nnd W. H. Lee. of New Haven, Conn., who is standing by his side.
F Five thousand women nnd girls packed
?iv. jk Tl.rlmnnF Armnrv n,lnv tn ImnV
Ki ..lmArl nnn.nl. n. nn.nlf.ru w It, ttn.
ptaid tliem to "stay out" nnd mako suc
cessful the strike of tho garment worker
VTt Intcrnatlonnt Ladles' Garment
Wcriers' Union, which Is engineering
i!a itrlke. declares that 8000 workers
rifted out nt 7 o'clock this morning, nnd
tin thronged condition of the hall nnd
the numbers of strlkors seen on their waj
to the armory at Broad nnd Wharton
ttieeta seemed to bear out tho statement.
llinjr of tho young: rfomen In the armory
f 8d not know thnt n board of arbitration
tvu already appointed to consider means
ttl ending tho strike oven ns they entered
lb hall. This bonrd Is composed of three
jlnembers Georgo W Iliuicy. reprcsent
vtoj the garment manufacturers; Denja-
fna-6chleslnscr, president of the union,
r mi Director or Public Safety Wilson, to
$tat the deciding vote This board was
noon In t,he rooms of tho Chamber of
Commerce In tho WIdenor Building.
i The leaders of the manufacturers and
Sot the tyilpn oro frankly on not unfrlend
I ly terms, fho statements they gave out
atemed carefully coniridered with tho
jS(dr of not glIng orfenso. Leo Becker.
presiatnt or tno Ladles' wnlst and Silk
Itaufacturers' Association, In which tho
MufactUrers nro organized, said:
'All I cdn say li that what tho union
ntj wo do not want. If I were In Mr.
KAIednser's (the union loader's) nines.
t oold certnlnly try for as large a slice
u I thought I could get."
Mr. Schlcslnger said
H think the strike will bo over In two
r three dais and that tho garment work-
KAISER, WELL,
TO DIRECT NEW
DRIVE IN RUSSIA
Berlin Strategists Declare
"Germany Will Win
War in East"
NO DRIVE ON SALONICA
Continued on l'nce lno. Column Three
GERMANS QUIT AKMS PLANT
nty Men Tell Superintendent
They Were Threatened
PLYMOUTH JIbss. Jnn 17. Seentv
imrkmen, most of them Gcrmnn-). oult
coraai me I'ljmoutli cordnge Company's
-flfent today because thoy told Superln-
waent, Itobert A. Brown, they had been
rnienea. '
The companj' has been rushlnc blc wnr
wtracte. nreiumablv for h Alllon
! walkout put over BOO men out of
wit
Balkans Campaign Won Bulgar
Ally and Cut Off Ammuni
tion From Slavs
Joint Rates to New York Ordered
IWA8H.INGTON. Jnn, 17. Tl.B Intor.
NWe Commerce Commission ruled today
it the Central liullroud of New Jersey
MJ. connecting trunk lines should es-
Ito h jolm ratM wlth tho East Jersey
Jaroad and Terminal Comoanv for the
Wnf u( shipments In New York city
; distribution to points In New York
Hthor,
THE WEATHER
W Is fine old winter sandwich
4ftlh.
iTwelvA H- o....i
j:... .-.vw uaiuiua,, wurmer yes-
7J, with a light snow sauce, and 15
J- ' .""" ' " reauu ino oiu-iasn-Jja
winter skeptics are malntalnlnz a
"Jireet alienee. Today is Ideal In our
. 7h . Ju,t a "Bht snow covering
ItaS, i Blve the ProPer appearance to
fTT V BnBra. wn a crisp, biting
3v i ?M t0 make th8 boo1 "nslo
w inject the "pep" necessary to make
H worth 1 uIh. n... . . .
tu,,ii.. """ iui our esiimaiion is
SWnnly. BO pitifully small. This morn.
JM were waiting for our car, thre
ma down the steps of the big church
2Ji a vision of a girl. Light golden
iv, -. r.1 jwj in iicr lave wbu
lii,., " ww hi, ajuv nor coai watr
rrruiB less than a meagre covering,
i?Bil-Taj t0r" ana a otochlnB'38 toe
htla,, j "mi Bue. one sioppea a
SSr' .an,d the caUEe thereof was a
r, , ' .-'" v iu iicur. a ponce ser
ig?r " waiting for his car, too. "You
u.m n?m- kld'" hB sald. "not out
1 lov "un-h-h-r," she replied,
4d you kia th v,..i .i.. .,..i
I
FnnnnAcp
H Philadelphia and vicinity
MBisrAt, with lowest temperature
" aegreea; Tuesday fair and
moderate northwest winds.
Berlin, Jan. IT.
Umperor vVUllam. oillclitm announced
to be completely recovering nnd returning
to tlij front. Is roportoC In high riunrters
to be oh hla way to, tho Eastern theatre
of war.
It Is In tho east that well-informed
persons expect the next great hnttlos to
occur, and tho arrival of tho Kaiser thero
may be 'a signal for a renewal of the great
German offensive against tho Rueslnris,
which was halted by the Servian cam
paign i. .
Germans In gcnoral bellevo the var
will be won In Iluisln. The deadlock In
tho west Is one tha can be broken bv
neither Teutons nor Allies without enor
mous losses that uoihl make victory In
such operations ar empty one, according
to some German experts. They point out
that the length of the front In Russia
makes tho Eastern theatre of war the
only ono In which there can be any exer
cise of military strntogy.
The belief Is growing in Berlin that
there will be no campaign against Palon
lea. By Its victory in Serbia Germany
accomplished Its two-fold purpose of
making Bulgaila Its ally and stopping
the transportation of ammunition to Rus
sia from Salonlcn. Nothing further would
he gained by tho capture of Salonlca,
tho experts say.
Tho enlistment of Bulgnrla as an ally
of tho Teutons and the severance of
communication between Salonlca and
Ilurslu Is a blow at the Ruslans that has
been little appreciated except In Berlin.
Tho Czar's nrmy'got a largo part of Its
ammunition supplies from England and
Franco through Salonlca, Noiv It Is de
pendent upon Its own exertions and upon
the supplies that enn be carried oer the
Trans-Siberian railway or taken In
through Archangel, which Is completely
Icebound In winter.
MONTENEGRO SUES FOR PEACE;
FIRST BREAK IN ALLIES' RANKS
BERLIN, Jnn. 17. "c first break in the ranks of the Allies occurred
today Cnished and threatened with complete disaster nt the hands of tho
Austrian invaders, Montenegro sued for peace nnd has agreed to an un
conditional surrender of tho remnnnts of her nrmics.
Offir.W announcement of this fact was nnde in the Hungarian Parlia
ment by Count Tiszn. Tho news was received with great rejoicing in
Budapest and in Berlin when it was telegrnphed here.
"Parliament had just finished tho first paragraph of tho dny's older
of business when Count Tisza asked permission to interrupt tho discussion,"
said the dispatch.
"Count Tiszn then informed Parliament that the King and Government
of Montenegrp havo nsked for the inauguration of peace negotiations."
Austria complied with a demand that Montenegro lay down nrms,
the Hungarian Premier added. This demand was acceded to by King
Nicholas, the Premier said.
"Great demonstrations followed in Parliament.
'I 'We nsked in the first plnce that Montenegro lav down arms uncon
ditionally,' added tho Primc Minister, amid joyful shouts. Just at this
moment the news has nrrived that Montenegro has accepted. Since the
Ereliminary conditions have been enrried out, peaco negotiations will
egin immediately.'"
Montenegro did not sign the treaty of London, binding England,
France, Russia and Italy to conclude no separate peace.
CARRANZISTAS
PLEDGED SAFETY
TO .AMERICANS
Reports of U. S. Officials
Show Massacre Victims
Had Assurances
POPULAR LANSDOWNE
GIRL ELOPES WITH
WELL-KNOWN GOLFER
Miss Anna Lewis and George W:
Statzell, J,r., of IJrexel Hill,
Wire Parents of Marriage,
Which Took Place Here $
LANSING DENIES REQUEST
WASHINGTON, Jnn. 17.-A general
passport und assurances of safety were
glen by Carranza Immigration author
ities nt Juarez to C It Wntson nnd tho
party of Americans who ero murdered
by Villlstn bandits at Santa Ysabel a week
ago. the State Department announced this
afternoon Besides the passport and as
surances, a garrison of 10o or more Car
ranza troops were sent to Cusl to protect
the Americans nnd other foreigners who
went to the mining district nearby to re
sume operations.
These facts became known, the rtonnrt-
ment said, through dispatches from Cus
toms Collector Cobb and Consul Edwards
at El Paso.
Watson carried nlso a personal passport
Issued by the Governor of Chihuahua.
Today's messages, togther with a state
ment oy secretary i.ansmg, cleared up
TURKS DEFEATED
AGAIN BY BRITISH
RELIEF COLUMN
Rescuers Gain Ground To
ward Beleagured Army
at Kut
SLAV DRIVE IN CAUCASUS
MISSING NUN WAS
PRAYING ON PORCH
WHENLAST SEEN
Swamps of Cheltenham Be
ing Scoured for Sister
Rita Vincent
SKATING ON HUNTING PARK LAKE
q
There is skntlng on HuntitiB Park Luke only today. Concourse, Centennial,
Cluunounix nnd Oiiitlno I.nkes have not been opened to skaters.
COLDER WAVE ON WAY HERE
The temperature will remnln tho snmo, about 17, throughout today, with
n slight gradunl fall toward night, according to tho forecust of "Weather Man"
UHkb. He snld that tonight will probably see the approach of a very cold wave,
with tho thermometer hovering Just nbovo tho zero mark. He would not say
when he expected the cold wao to break.
HAD BEEN VERY ILL
Doctors and Police Believe At
tack of Aphasia Is Cause.
All Help in Search
lOST AND FOuND
lsrit
i.i5ti&teiira?j!ssi.-.-?ftija.
WMfirto J25JS.1 W.,-,u.J??ner. ward
5mirtf?.l lady's onen fa.ra raid walrh.
K. "r on iSfriil',tSut .nr. "J nl M".
PLeiWjtgut "' trolley. Ktnaro.
IK fVl'Y.iS'. !?' nlnt chow
ST Hth in i t lo"r rtauun oroun.
J-4!i and Locut Apply Jill Locust.
?rr't htu.. ..--. . . . :
""" Us. jTi's', vnuoipa ana ttyrinc
jpgSiWn MethodUt f5plLBili (. Green.
9km HE On McrlOQ BV Mrlnn alK.,,.
t $ hti Caw"'' on '." sold
'Uaultci j.4, ra Patlef f( aU i7
WERE SCHOOLDAY CHUMS
i The end of a 13-year romance, or, per
haps, more properly- tl-e beginning of a
romance, came to light today when It
was learned that Miss Anna Lewis,
daughter of ..Mr- and Mrs. Benjamin
Lewis, of Lansdowne, had slipped off
without the knowledge of her parents
and been married to deorge W. Statzell,
Jr.. of Drexel Hill.
The bride, who Is but ?0 years. 0I4I, has
known her husband since she. was il
years old. when tney went 10 scnooi to
gether. They havebeen .sweethearts ever
since. The only objection to the marriage,
so far as could be learned today, was. the
youth of the coupie.
Miss Lewis left her home on Saturday
morning with Mr. StatxelL They went
to the Church of St. Luke and the Epiph
any, 13th street below Spruce, where they
were married,
They were accompanied by Miss Marie
Carscaddeu and C L nawlands. After
the ceremony had been performed, the
oung couple sent a telegram to Mrs.
Lewis tho bride's mother, and then left
on the next train for l'lnehurst, N. C.y
where they are now with the bride
groom's parents. George W Statxell, Sr..
Is taking part In the golf tournament
there , ,
Both the young people are popular In
society and have hundreds of friends In
the suburbs They kept their Intentions
a secret from every one.
Man KHU Mother and Daughter
CHELSEA. Mass., Jan. 17. Adam Jar
Jlan, known as Adam Taylor, shot and
killed Mrs. Belle Ostrlvlck and her daugh
ter Anna U their home today an then
wounded himself.
quest by Consul IMwards to the Carranza
odlclals for assurances of safety for the
American I arty.
Consul Edwards admitted he had stated
ho did this at the request of the State
Department. Secretary Lansing denied the
department had ordered him to do this,
hut admitted Consul Edwards may havo
misunderstood the message which the
department sent him "January 13. This
message 'the department today again re
fused tq rnake public.
"I. requested tlie Carranza Government
to protect the, district of the Cusl Mining
Companyr such protection was promised
and Immediately furnished br the au-
I- thorltlestatt Juarez."
ytccoruing 10 wodu a dispatch, this force
preceded the train on which the Ameri
cans were passengers In three sections
of 20 cars each, under the command of
General Jose Cavazos.
"Having passports issued by the au
thorities," Cobb's dispatch rends, "and
a garrison having been established which
they understood to number IOOO men,
they had ample assurances to bellete It
LONDON, Jan. 17.
The Turks have suffered severe defeats
In tho Important struggles now raging In
two or the Asiatic theatres of war. It was
officially announced this afternoon
The British, under General Aylmer, ad
vancing to the relief" of tho beleaguered
gurrlson at Kut 131 Ainara, in Meso
potamia, captured Turkish positions In
heavy lighting Saturday and Sunday.
Secietary for India Chamberlain made
this announcement In the House of Com
mons thli afternoon. This follows a do
feat administered Satuiday.
The Itusstans have thrown back the
Turk on a Ide front In their now
Caucasus offensive. I'etrogrnd reported
The Turkla!j,defeat Is admitted In an of-
nciai statement Issued at Constantinople,
leporting the Ottoman advanced posts
have retreated several miles before supe-
When tho hell of St. Joseph's Villa
wos calling tho sisters to pray for a
dying nun on Jnnuary 5. Sister Hlta Vin
cent disappeared. Although In tho shad
ow of death herself, she was kneeling In
praer on the -porch when Inst seen bv
Mother Superior Ignatius. When tho
prayer was finished the sister was gone.
Whether she is dead somewhere near
the roadside or being carod for by some
one unnwaro of her Identity, Is matter of
conjecture.
Tho pollco, the clergy and Catholic so
cieties of several States are looking for
her nnd today Chief of Police Lever with
several searching parties Is scouring the
Bvvnmps for many miles around Chelten
ham and making a house-to-house search.
It Is known definitely that tho missing
sister disapjis'-ed between 11 -20 a. m. nnd
noon. For many months she had suf
fered from tuberculosis, and as far back
ns last Juno received the last rites of the
church when it was believed she was at
death s door. But she rallied nnd her sole
worrlment thereafter was because she
could not help to administer to tho other
nuns.
The -villa Is situated In a picturesque
spot two miles from Cheltenham It Is
the haven for stricken nurses of St.
Joseph's Convent, Pence and contentment
seem to radiate from every nook and
corner of the little home, and heroic sac
rifices of which the world never hears is
a matter of almost dally record.
Mother Superior Ignatius said the miss
ing sister did not leave tho villa with
any ono, and helleves that her constant
III health caused her to wander off. Sho
does not think the sister 1b a victim of
foul play. Sister Itlta Vincent has not
THEODORE VOORHEES ALMOST WELL
nOCIIESTKIl, Minn., Jan. 17. Theodore Voorhccs. president of the Phila
delphia and Heading Hallvvny Company, who recently underwent a serious
operation here, may be able to leave for hla home at Elklns Park, Pa., In
a few days.
VIENNA PROTESTS AGAINST SEIZURE OF CORFU
V1CNNA, Jan. 17. Tho AuBtro-Hungnrlnn Government today protested
to England unci Trance through United States Ambassador Penfleld against
the occupation of Corfu by an Anglo-French force, declaring this act a.
flagrant violation of tho London treaties of 1863 nnd 1864. In tho protest tho
Government declared that England nnd Franco had again manifested their
disregard for the principles of international law.
OIL TANKS MENACED BY $125,000 FIRE
NEW YORK, Jan. 17. Fire today destroyed 20,000 tons of coal nnd threat
ened pockets contninlnB 8000 tons more in tho "Williamsburg coal plant of "tho
A. J. & J. J. McCollum Company. The Williamsburg. Brooklyn and Long Island
City fire departments fought the blaze to prevent Its spreading to tho plant
of the Standard Oil Company two block away, where millions of gallons of
oil are stored in Brent tanks. Tho loss Is estimated at 3125,000.
JEWELRY SMUGGLER SENT TO JAIL
NEW YORK, Jan. 17. Herman J. Dletz, a jeweler, and his Bon Charles
today pleaded guilty In Federal Court to smuggling -from 1350,000 io $800,000
worth of Jewelry across the Canadian border. Herman Dletz was sentenced
to a prison term of a year and a day and the son was fined $5000.
SEEK DISMISSAL OF LAMAR'S APPEAL TO COURT
WASHINGTON, Jan. 17. Government attorneys asked tho Supreme Court
today to dismiss peremptorily tho appeal of David Lamar, "wolf of Wall
street," In which ho challenges tho validity of his conviction for falsely Im
personating a member of Congress. The request was taken under advisement.
Continued on rate Seven, Column Two
tho confusion regarding a reported re- frlor Russian forces under the Qrand Duke
Continued on Pace Four, Column Hie
RE NICOLA HA CHBEST0
LA PACE ALL'AUSTRLA
Probabile Crfsi Ministeriale in
Italia Per la.Mancata Difesa
del Monte Lovcen
Telegramml de Berllpo e da Vienna
dlconolche 11 Montenegro ha domandato
la pace. L'annunclo e' stata dato dal
conte Tisza, presldente del Conslgllo.
ungherese nella Camera ungherese.
L'Austria ha measo per condlzlone che II
Montenegro desponga le armi. e questa
condlzlone e' stata uccettata dal re Nicola
e dal suo governo. I ne&oilatl per la pace
saranno Inlzlat) sublto.
La stampa romana dice che la caduta
del Montenegro e' da attribulrsi alia dt
plomazla devil alleatl nel Balcant, che. e
stata sempre procrastlnatrlce, quando do
ve vu essere Invece energlca e raplda
(Leggere In 6a pagina. le ultima e plu'
detta-Uata notlile suits, jjuerra la
Itiillano.)
Nicholas, former Commandei -In-Chief of
an me Jiusamn armies.
In Persia tho Russians are pressing
closer to Kermansah, where a battle with
a Turkish and Perslaj, force is imminent,
I'etrograd reported.
becretary Chamberlain Informed Com
mons that tho Turks continue in retreat
In the ICut-el-Amara region, having fallen
back from the positions to which they
were forced to retreat sevetal days ago
Bad weather Is hindering the British pur
suit, but it Is believed tho siege of Kut-el-Amara
will be lifted within a few
dajs.
Because of the marshy condition of
the country between Shelk-Saad and Kut-el-Amara
the relief forces have been un
able to march directly westward to the
relief of General Townshend. but have
been forced to follow ho windings of the
loria jucr, .iney are now within a
rial's march of the outer defenses of Kut-el-Amara
Itself.
The first of the Turkish troops released
bv the allied evacuation of Gulllpoli Pe
ninsula reajfed the Ottoman capital lal
Thursuuy, JShens reported They crossed
into Asia Minor two days later as the
"backbone" of a new force headed for
TMeiopotamid They are uxpected to teaih
the Kut-el-Amara region, whera tho
Turks are now reported In ret eat before
General Aylmefs relief force, within
atout two weekav
Constantinople advices report that the
Continued on I'sxe Three, Column One
CITY NOT AT FAULT
Judge Wessel Holds Qoy's Death Can't
Be So Blamed
Failure to prove negligence of officers
at the bath house, 27th and Brown streets,
was responsible for the drowning of Will
lam Hessian. 17 years old. caused Judge
Wessel, In Common Pleas Court No. 2,
today, to dismiss a suit against the city
for damages.
It was contended that only two guards
were employed to watch over 300 bojs.
and it was lso asserted that the boy's
body remained at tho bottom of tha pool
15 minutes.
Judge Wessel held, that In the absence
Of conclusive proof thai some other causa
had not contributed to the, drowning, tha
city could not be held liable.
GERMANY GETS 100,000 HOGS FROM SERBIA
BERLIN, Jan. 17. Signs Indicate that Germany is coming out of tho
present food muddlo nlcoly. Not only nro bare necessities of tho army nnd the
people covered, but a handsome balance will be carried forward Into the, new
food year. It Is felt much can be dono to stretch tho meat supply, slnco
German statisticians have discovered that Germans per capita aro actually
consuming moro beef thnn Englishmen, and that the consumption of meat
during tho war of 1870 wil much less than It Is today. Cheering news also
comes that 400,000 Balkan grain-fed Serbian hogs nro coming Into the market
In tho near future, the first practical fruits of General von Mackensen's
offensive.
JAMISONS' SUiFDE
PACT BROUGHT OUT
IN SUIT FOR ESTATE
Two Hospitals and Mrs. Tyson
and Her Daughter Seek to
Break Agreement to Get
Share of Property
TOOK POISON SAME DAY
$73,000,000 A DAY WAR COST TO FIVE NATIONS
PARIS, Jan. 17. Alfred Xoymarck. French economist, estimates that the
daily cost of the war to nvo of the belligerents has attained $73,000,000, divided
as follows: Germany, Including advances to her allies, $20,000,000; France.
$16,000,000; Great Britain, $19,000,000; Russia, $13,000,000; Itnly. $5,000,000.
Italy's expenses will rlso to moro than $6,000,000 dnlly. however, for by tho
end of July she will have spent $3,000,000,000 altogether. The belligerent war
loans to the end of last October totaled $24,000,000,000, of which the United
8tate3 supplied $000,000,000. The Allies have borrowed $14,000,000,000 and the
Central Empires $10,000,000,000.
DUTCH QUEEN HASTENS TO FLOODED REGION
AMSTERDAM, Jan. 17. Queen Wllhelmlna has cone to the Hooded' district
In northern Holland. It Is believed that tho loss of life In tho provinces of
north Holland, where breaks occurred In a lumber of dikes, will probably
reach 60. Refugees are flocking Into The Hague, Utrecht and Rotterdam, whera
they are being cared for by the mlllltary authorities.
A suit brought today by two hospitals
and by Mrs. Gertrude H, Tyson and Miss
trances Tjson, wife ana daughter or Dr.
T. Mellor Tyson, of 1506 Spruce street,
seeks to break an agreement made by
John and Samuel -Jamison concerning the
estates of Samuel and his sister Jane, who
aro said to have entered Into a suicide
pact In August, the "suicide month,"
1913.
Miss Jane Jamison and her brother,
Samuel, the former 59 ears old; the lat
ter, 67; jived in retirement on a beautiful
estate on Hare's lane, half a mile from
Radnor station. On August 31, 1913, they
were found by servants suffering from
the effects of poisons. Miss Jamison died
on the way to Bryn Mawr Hospital, but
her brother recovered. On the following
January 24 he shot and killed himself In
a vacant house near Ardmore
Brother and sister have left each other
the bulk of their estates. Between the time
of his tlrst attempt to end his life and his
second and successful attempt. Samuel
Jamison had an Interview with his brother
John, at which an agreement was made.
This, if It holds, would deprive four equal
shares of a certain part of Miss Jamison's
estate from going, one to Mr. Tyson,
and on her death to her daughter, one
each to the German and Rush Hospitals,
and one to St. Stephen's Episcopal Church.
It Is this agreement between the broth
ers (hat the plaintiffs In the equity suit
seek to have declared null and void, as
they would lose their shares If It Is al
lowed to stand, ir.4 the suit Is directed
against John Jamison.
The father of the two Jamison brothers
Costumed va face Tkxco, Celuaui pae
TURKS TAKE VAST BOOTY AT GALLIPOLI
CONSTANTINOPLE, Jan. 17. Five million dollora" worth of booty was
captured by the Turks when the British evacuated their camp at Sedd-El-Bahr,
on the Galltpoli Peninsula, according to an official statement given out by tha
Turkish War Office. It follows;
"Tho work of enumerating the booty captured at the abandoned camp
of the British at Sedd-El-Bahr lias been completed. The value of articles
found totals about $5,000,000, We havo discovered 15 cannons of various
calibre, an Immense quantity of hidden ammunition, several hundreds of cais
sons, 2000 ordinary carts, many motorcars, bicycles, more than 200 tents,
50,000 woolen blankets and 1,000,000 kilograms of oats and barley."
ENGLAND BUYS 80,000 CARS OF RUMANIAN GRAIN
BUCHAREST, Jan. 17, An English syndicate today closed a deal for
the purchase of 80,000 cars of Rumanian grain, paving $50,000,000 In gold. Tlje
entire Rumanian grain surplus will be purchase by the Allies, It Is understood
here, In conformity with the plan of "starving out" Germany,
FRENCH SANK OWN CRUISER, VIENNA ASSERTS
BERLIN, Jan. 17, Among the Items given out today by the Overseas News
Agency was the following: "Reports front Vienna say the Stefan! Agency on
January 14 announced that the French submarine Foucault sank an -Aust.ro-Hungarlan
cruiser of the Novnra type.. Since no AusCro-Hungarlon Bhlp is
missing, the Foucault must have sunk a ship of the Entente Powers by mis
take."
GEORGE TELLS SERBS ALLIES WILL RESTORE COUNTRY
SALONICA, Jan. 17. King George of England wired Kiny Peter of Serbia
on the occasion of the Greek New Year;
"I am fully convinced that the Allies, with the, heroic Serbian army, are In a
position to win back to your people complete Independence and secure isMl
victory."
PARIS, Jan. 17. A dispatch to the Temps from Salonlca, dated Friday, says;
"Colonol Bokovltch, the Serbian Minister of War, before leaving here 4f or
Brindisl on the Greek torpedoboat destroyer Velos. said Serbia, would oer tlw
Ailim in two months & completely reorganized army of 100.00Q b."
I
V
A
