A BOLT everybody who is really interested in Wash
ington, the city's and people's welfare, reeda
The Herald. The HERALD ave. ages more than
30.000 paid circulation daily, which covers most of the
b?st homes in Washington.
THE
HERALD
AS ?rs? announced January 1. 1916. The Herald
guarantees full money's worth to the pur
chasers of article? advertised m the duplay column?
of this paper by any Washington merchant
(Circolar Fmrmithed Vpom Retrae rt)
NO. 3380.
WEATHER?CLOUDY; COLD WAVE TONIGHT.
WASHINGTON. D. C. MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 1916.
ONE CENT.
?Ml??? mm 4 Vm.w.m *?1
I IHMIIIHF ?WI < tt
ITALY TO GIVE AID
TO SERBIA AND
MONTENEGRO
Rome Dispatch Says "Active
and Adequate" Help Will
Be Offered.
DEFINITE DECISION MADE
Announcement Follows Con
ferences Between King Vic
tor and His Ministers.
MONTENEGRINS RETREATING
Evacuate Two Town? East of Cettinje,
Says Report?Teutons Capture
250 and Depot.
ermerhl Cable la Taa KhsMngtea Bereit.
Pari*). Jan. Di.?Italy has decided at laat
to five 'active and adequate" aid to
Serbia and Montenegro, accordine to a
Rome dispatch.
Steps to this end. the dL patch says.
have been taken as the result of Ion?
conferences between Kin? Victor F5m
maquel and his ministers of war, marine
and foreign affairs.
Meanwhile, the Montenegrins are re
ported to have evacuated the towns of
Nisi and Podeoritaa. to the eaat of Cet
bnje.
The ofll<-ial statement Issued at Vienna
today adds that the Auatro-Hu-ngarlans
north of Grahovo. near the Albanian
frontier, have <*apti>*-ed 36* Montenegrins
together with a fully equipped ammuni
tion depot.
The pursuit of the Montenegrins con
tinu?e.?' i-oneJudes the official note, "and
Ihe number of prison???? captured near
Berane (in the interior of M on ten erro ?
has reacl)?ed 400."
The Montenegrin government haa ar
rived at Scutari, according to further
Vienna advices, and the Serbian govern
nent ls to bo removed to the Island of
Corfu. Thia isle, which belongs to
jreece, was recently seized by the
French with the avo? ed purpose of mak
ns It m mJlyfna- point for the scatter-H
remnants of the Serbian army.
? Saloniki dispatch to the Paris Temps.
lated Saturday, tella of a delay In the
proposed offensive of the Teutonic- Bul
taro-Turkish troops against Saloniki.
The dispatch says no advance probably
Rill be made for two weeks because of
1191culti.ee eni-ountered In the transport
?f artillCTy and munitions.
Feels Fine After
Thirty-day Fast
Senate Committee Clerk Will
Eat Food First Time in
Month To<ky.
With the drinking of a glass of milk
ind the .?tin? of a little toast. J. Ray
Adams, clerk to the Senate Committee
sn Woman Suffrage, will this morning
break a thirty-day last, undertaken ln
? desperate effort to cure indegestlon,
from which he suffered for more than a
rear.
A shrinking of the flesh on his face,
ind a slight hollowness sround the eyes.
ire the only visible effects of the fight
?aged. Despite the fact that not a
morsel of solid or liquid food, other than
nater. has passed his lips during the
s?st month Mr. Adama has not missed
? single working day or deviated in the
.e-4..*t from hts daily routine.
According to a statement made yester
day, he feels in just as good physical
condition as if he had eaten three meals
?ach day. "Getter in fact."* aald Mr.
\dams. "because I have not felt a trace
-?f the pains, with which I formerly
luffered. since the second day of my
taat."
Each morning, upon arising, during the
sait thirty days. Mr. Adams, has taken
?ne glass of hot water. During the re
mainder of the day his only refresh
ments consisted of copluos drafts of cold
?ater He has lost about ten pouniis tn
weight, but has suffered practically no
loss in strength.
Denies Cruiser Was Sunk
Berlin 'wireless via Sayville). Jan. IS.?
Vienna reports that the Stefan! Agency,
>n January 14. forwarded a communica
tion to the effect that the Fr?anch sub
marin? Foucault had sunk an Austro
Flungarian cruiser of the Novara type.
Vienna states that since no Austro-Hun
garlan warship ts missing the Foucault
must have sunk an entente warship by
mistake.
"Quiet'' Day on Front.
London. Jan. lt. ?British headquarters
reports it has been a quiet day. al
though there has been some hostile shell
?I .?bout Givenchy and Ypres. The al
ii?' artillery bombarded a German
itroe-rhold north of Ypres with satisfac
tory retraits.
Vatican Flames Under Control.
Rome, Jaa. 11?Fire broke out in the
Vatican today la th< arsenal uf the Swiss
jiiirds. It spread to the vestry of the
Vaticaa, uut ? ta .?ob put under control.
Progressives Sure
Do Fancy CoL T. R.
New York, Jan. 16?"Yes, the
Progressive party leaders have
three possibilities in mind,"
said George W. Perkins today.
"In the order of their prefer
ence they are:
"Former President Roosevelt.
"Theodore Roosevelt.
"Col. Roosevelt."
Mr. Perkins made this an
nouncement when asked to
comment on the dispatch from
Chicago that the Progressive
party generals, at the con
ference Tuesday, favored, after
Col. Roosevelt, Justice Hughes,
of the Supreme Court, and third,
Gov. McCall, of Massachusetts.
U-BOAT BLAST
IS A MYSTERY
Board of Inquiry Works All
Day Without Finding
Cause.
THEORY OF BOMB IN E-2
DENIED BY COMMANDANT
Edison's Chief Engineer Issues State
ment Defending New Battery
Made by the Inventor.
s pr?. t* The Washington Herald.
Naw Tork. Jan. 16? Myetery atill en
velope the cause of yeaterday'a explosion
on the submarine E-S at Brooklyn Navy
Tard, ln which four men lost their Uvea.
Vlforoualy denying rumora of a bomb
explosion. Commander Frank B. I'pham,
aide to Rear Admiral Usher, commandant
of tbe yard, said tonight:
"We know now that the explosion took
place aa a reault of natural cause?, and
irom something our own men did."
Miller R^ece Hutchison, "chief engineer
for Thoraaa A. Edison, at the ?ame time
flatly denied that the explosion waa due
in any way to defecta In the Edison
battery, which was designed to avert
th.*se under-sea boat tragedy. After
making an exhauative? Investigation Mr.
Hutchlaon aafd:
-Will fot rtaase mmtttrt-r.
"Aa to the Edison battery, with all the
fact? and conditions before me, 1 see no
reason to recommend to Mr. Edison any
changes or alterations ln the theory, con
atruetion or method of Installation of the
Edison submarine type of atora*?? battery.
The battery ln the H-3 doea not appear
to bave been injured ln the leaat."
The investigation will be continued to
morrow.
Of the tan aerlously Injured victims of
the accident, all but three were aaid to
night to be holding their own.
The special board of Inquiry appointed
by Admiral Uaher te make a preliminary
Investigation of the explosion worked all
day. The board spent practically all of
Its time between decka of the E-2.
Admiral Uaher, on leaving the ahip,
aaid:
"Tha board met today but reached no
conclusion. It will meet again tomor
row. There have been no further deaths
and absolutely no new developments"
U. S. To Demand
"Real" Blockade
This Country Cannot Recog
nize Stopping of Part of
Teuton's Trade.
The United States will not recognise
the proposed new blockade of Germany
by Great Britain unless it ia made ab
solutely effective.
To be legal in the eyea of the United
States, such a blockade must not only
girdle the shore? of Germany on the
North Sea. but must extend across this
body of water between the Scandinavian
countries and Germany.
A statement of this fact waa obtained
last night from highest officia! aources
in the American State Department. The
atand which thia country will take, it
waa declared. It will be able to set forth
succinctly. The United Statea will in
alat that the blockade, to be effective,
muat operate agalnat trade between all
neutral countries and Germany; and that
it will not ao operate unless Norw?iy,
Sweden and Denmark are aa effectively
?hut off from commercial intercourse
with Germany as the Untied Statea, Hol
land and other neutral countries.
In German embassy circles, It is de
clared that if Cjreat Britain attempts
to penetrate the Baltic for the purpo.?*?
of establishing a blockade, she will have
to undertake the most hazardous naval
effort of the war.
SEEK AERO MAIL ROUTES.
( ??ITHi Will Be Vaiarti lo Balab
H?h Fort.-lbre?.
New York. Jan. 11?The Aero Club
of America will aak I'ongreea to ap
propriate ?,.000.000. with which to
"?tabllsh and maintain forty-three aero
plane mail roula in the i'nited States.
Alexander Graham Bell urged the
r lub to present the matter to 'Oneress.
lie pointed out that such a corps would
pr?vido the government with trained
aviatore in case ut war.
DAMPER OVER
EDISON PLAN
Accident at New York May
Prove Failure of New
Battery Scheme.
PURCHASE CONDITIONAL UPON
PROVED VALUE AFTER TESTS
Daniels Asserts He Does Not Know the
Cause of the Explosion on
Submarine E-2.
Recommendation by experts of the navy
for the purchase of tlie Kdtson battery,
which waa Installed on the submarine
E-2, It was authoritatively learned last
night, was only conditional. Realising
that the battery contained more or less
serious defect?? the Bureau of Steam En
gineering, lt was stated, recommended
that lt should be Installed on the E-: and
the Lr-ft with the understanding that the
purchase should not be consummated
until these defects had been rennsdled. lt
Is further stated that Mr. Edison was
havinc certain alterations tried out at
the time the exploelon occurred Satur
day, which resulted In the killing of four
men and the Injuring of a number of
other workmen.
It was learned from officials of the
bureau that one of the problems still to
be met at the time of the accident was
the overcoming of the danger of explo
sions due to escaping hydrogen gas at
the time th? battery was discharging. In
the statement Issued Saturday night by
Assistant Secretary of the Navy Roose
velt it was said that experiments hsd
shown this gas escaped to an appreciable
extent only when the battery was being
i-?"d
Officers of the bureau declared last
night, however, that the greatest es
cape of this gas always occurred when
the battery was being discharged, a mat
ter of particular concern. In view of the
fact that ln cruising the battery dis
charged only when the submarine was
running under water.
While It Is declared that no definite
conclusion can be reached as to the future
use of the battery untU the technical
report of the board of Inquiry Is be
fore the bureau. It Is also stated that
the accident has naturally cast a dam
per over the prospects which Mr. Edison
had held out v
Secretary' of the Navy Daniel?-/ laat
night said:
"I regret the publication of s statement
quoting me ?as giving an opinion as to
the cause of the explosion on the E-?.
."I am not yet ln possession of Informa
tion which would enable me to state \fte
cause of the accident, and I shall not
be enabled to make such a statement un
til the official report reaches me."
Naval Heads in
An Open Break
Admiral Fletcher's Ideas of
Strategy Not in Accord
with War College.
New York, Jan. 16.?Differences be
tween Admiral "Prank F. Fletcher, com
manding the Atlantic Fleet, and the Naval
War College at Newport, have reached
the breaking point, according to reports
received tonight. In consequence, lt Is
said. Admiral Fletcher will turn his com
mand over to Vice Admiral Henry T.
Mayo next May, or earlier.
Friction between Admiral Fletcher and
Rear Admiral A. M. Knight, head of the
war college, has been an open secret
for sor%e time. It came to a head, when
charges were sent by the War CoUege
to Secretary of the Navy Daniels that
fundamental principles of strategy were
violated by Admiral Fletcher during the
war games last May and last October.
To this, according to the report. Admiral
Fletcher replied that the plans of
strategy prepared at the War Colle?-;?
were merely academic and Ignored
exigencies of practice.
Throughout the fleet rumors are cir
culating that Admiral Henson and his
associates advise the replacement of Ad
miral Fletcher by an officer whose ideas
of strategy are In accord with those
taught at the War CoUege. Secretary*
Daniels is a strong supporter of the in
stitution. Vice Admiral Mayo Is the
logical successor of Admiral Fletcher, Ad
miral Knight being barred by his retire
ment next December.
COLD WAVE PLANS TO
TARRY HERE AWHILE
Due to Arrive Today and Increase in
Frigidity the Longer It Remains
in Washington.
Colder, still colder, much colder, and
a real cold wave as the day and night
progresses, are the pleasant propects for
Washington and its Inhabitants today,
according to the forecasters of the
j Weather Bureau. In addition to the in
creasing cold weather for today the
forecaster promises that It will be very
cloudy. m
The only relief promised for Tues<iay,
Or for some time, ls a let up in the
cloudiness. The real cold wave, accord
ing tu the bureau, win continue In
definitely.
The lowest temperature reached yee
terday was ? degrees at-ove zero, while
the hig'icst was SS du* re ta.
Capital Attorney Demands
Probe of Death of Brother
In Omaha Seven Months Ago
William M. Browning, of Cleveland Park, Believes Death
Was Not Accidental and Scouts Suicide Theory?Poison
Victim Was Secretary of Traction Company Here.
A new investigation into the circum
stances surrounding the death from bi
chloride of mercury poisoning in Orosha,
Nebr., last June of Henry W. Biowning.
formerly of this city, has been demanded
by his brother, William M. I.rowninc,
attorney, o? Washington, who has Juet
returned from Omaha, "?here he held
f-xtended conferences with the district
attorney of that city.
Thft death of Henry Browning "*"as oe
? tared accidental by a corone!'a Jury
following ? ? inquest, evidence ?ddi'ced
at the hearing and the testimony of Mrs. !
Browning, who ?aid that thr? poison h id |
b*en purchased at her request? taadedJ
to show that the decea,?ed had swall??* * ,
ed the bichloride tablet in mistake for a i
bree th-perfurne tablet.
Mr-*. Browning tostttW that with a ,
friend she and her husband were standing!
tn tlie front yard of their home, when
ber husband reached into his pocket and
placed a tablet in his mouth. Shortly j
afterwards he became 111, she testified,
?Aj\d died within a few hours. This testi
mony wa? corroborated by a young wom
an who waa a house guest.
William Browning, who resides In
Cleveland Park, last night declined to
say what new evident*.' he hud placed
before the Nebraska officials in asking
that the case be reopened. He would only j
aay:
**I cannot believe my brother's death
was accidental, nor can 1 believe it was
suicide."
Mr;?. Browning ma Tied shortly after
the death of Browning.
Henry W. Browning1 waa secretary
of the Washington Railway and Elec
tric Company here for four year?. He j
accepted the managership of the Scott j
Advertising Company. Omaha, in 1909,
shortly after a divorce from his first
wife, who was Mi&s May Wheate, of
Washington. He remarried on De
cember 22. 1S14, his second wife being
a divorcee of but one day.
Thirteen Horses Perish as
$10,000 Fire Sweeps Stables
Flames in Alley Near Second and C Streets Northeast En
danger Property Worth $250.000?Two Alarms
Sounded?Firemen Work Two Hours.
Twelve horses were burned to death.
?? other hordes were threatened and
more than $250,000 worth of property
was In Imminent danger of destruction
by fire In ?tables In an alley near
Second and C streets northwe.-t last
night. One horse was ?hot after th^
Are. The damage was estimated at
SI?,000. The cause of the fire was not
learned.
The Are was discovered about 11
?o'clock In the stable of Mrs.' ?C C
Trumbo. Thirteen horseg were In the
stable. Twenty horses were In a sta
ble adjoining, and 200 hordes of the
Merchants' Transfer Company were* In
a lar&A building lese than a hundred
feet away. All of the buildings were
filled with hay and straw.
Two alley? croes at right angles in
the block between B, C, First and Sec
ond streets, the interior of the block be
ing occupted with the stable of the trans
fer company, a second large building
used as a wheelwright shop by the com
pany, a six-story veterinary hospital and
college owned by I>r. C. B. Robinson,
three smaller ?siablen and a garage. Had
the Are burned longer before toe dis
covery the flames would have swept
acrode tiie narrow alleys and gotten be
yond ron tro!, it wm said.
Mrs. Trum bo's wtabl?* ts between two
small barns owned by Dr. Roblnaon, both
barns beine damaged When the firemen
nerlvfd ? ii3 hay r?i<* ai raw in th* Trum**?
building were burning so that would-b*?
roecuers of the thirteen horse? were turn
ed back. Twenty horses were led out of
one of the Trumbo stables, the other barn
being empty.
Umployei of the transfer company's
stable feared for a time they would
have to lead out their 200 horses.
Two alarms brought out eight engines,
four truck* and a water tower. The fire
men poured water into the burning straw
loft for more than two hours before the
fire waa extinguished.
Suffragette Warns America
To Be Prepared for Strife
Mrs. Pankhurst Believes Preparedness Is Not a Matter of
Political Expediency, but of National Necessity?De
clares Germany Has Milk to Feed Infants.
Special to The W-ubin-fton He?id. .
New Tork, Jan. 16.?"This w.ar ahouid
teach America, much. The greatest lesson
America can learn 0*om Europe's hor
rora ia preparedness, .England wasn't
prepared. She and her allies will win.
But neither England nor France was pre
pared, although the menace was growing
before their eyes. America may not let
the lesson go unlearned."
Thus spoke Mrs. Emmeline Pankhurst
today. The far-famed militancy of this
English suffragette ie burning as fierrely
as ever. But it is burning for the success
of the allied arms and not alone for the
enfranchisement of her British system.
"I am not here to preach preparedness.
I am here on an errand of mercy?to
arouse the great sympathies of a great
nation on behalf of an heroic little na
tion?Serbia
"Germany's success would mean the
relegation of womankind to the age of
bondage that we left behind 500 years
ago. It would mean the ultimate defeat
of America and the destruction of even'
standard that represents ?America. Pre
paredness is not a matter of nolttlcat
expediency. It is a national necessity.
"Conscription? Yes. ?-English women
are for anything that will defeat Ger
many. And make no mistake. Patriot
Ism Is not lost in the hearts of the men
of England. They are slow to awaken
But they will not permit the Kaiser to
dictate the terms of peace.
"If Germany would give the milk she
has ta her babies, instead of using it !
the manufacture of munitions, this call
for milk from Germany's babies would j
not have come. Germany has all the milk ?
she needs for food."
Navy Department "Dawdling" ia Delay
In Building Battleships, Says Gardner
"Dawdling" i? the term by which |
Representative A. F Gardner, of Mas
sachusetts, describes the inactivity of
the Navy Department In the matter of
delaying the construction of battle
ships for which appropriations have
been made already by Congress.
Mr. Gardner uses the expression '
a letter to the American Defense So
ciety, which made it public yesterday.
In the same communication he also |
gives little encouragement to the so- j
ciety In its effort to have certain na- ;
val experts called to testify before!
the House Naval Affairs Committee on |
the subject ,of national defense.
The failure of the department to un
dertake the construction of battleships j
Nos. 43 and 44. for which the money
waa voted by Congress in March. 191S, ?
Mr. Gardner calls a "grotesque show
ln*." "Enr since October 22." he
?vida, "I have been asking for the
sommons of Admirals Wlnslow. Fiske
and Knight, and more recently for the
summons of Capt. Btms In fact, last
?u nmer 1 asked President Wllaon to
send for Admiral Winslow before that ?
officer was ordered to the Pacific. I I
am sorry to say that my request did !
not meet with the President's views,
for my letter is ?till unanswered.
"With regard to the other officers :
whom you name, I hope that >ou will
take up the matter with some mem
bera of tlie Committee on Naval Af
fairs. 1,think Chairman Padgett is in- ?
clined to be reasonable, although last
year th* committee refused to sum
mon Admirals Brown son. Winslcrw,
Knight and Wainwri-ght.
"Judging by a\dmiral Sanford's evi
dence, I cannot see any likelihood of,
battleship No. 44 being even begun un
der nineteen or twenty months from the
date when Congress voted the money
to build it. Neither do I expect that the
keel of battleship No. 43 will be laid
many days before next Christmas. What
a grotesque showing. I don t know
where the fault lies, but it ought to be
somebody's business to find out."
Mr. Gardner calls attention to the fact
that neither the Nevada nor Oklahoma
is yet in commission, although Congress
voted the money to build them on March
4. 1911. nearly five years ago. "How can
art yon"," ba adda, "excuse such
dawdllngr? ?
CARRANZA NOT
AFTER BANDITS
This Is Statement Made by
Americans Arriving from
Chihuahua.
ENGINEER SAYS OFFICIALS
LIED TO U. S. AUTHORITIES
Andrew Livingstone Declares Carran
zista Soldiers Are Not Seeking
to Avenge Massacre.
Sprcia) to Th? W-uliiagluo Urnld.
El Paao, Jan. 1??Absolutely nothing
is being done by tbe CarranxUta authori
ties in Chihuahua to avenge the maaaacre '
of Americane at Santa Ysabel, according1
to five Americana who arrived here to
night direct from Chihuahua City.
Andrew IJ ? i natone, a well-known min
ing engineer, one of the party, aaid:
"Carransa officials in Chihuahua lied
when they telegraphed to the border thst
1.G?) soldiers had been sent out to run
down the perpetrators of the Hani*
Yaab< 1 maeeacre. I left Santa Yaabel
yesterday noon and up to that time not
a ?ingle t^arranzlata soldier was any
where within twenty-five miles of the
?cone of the massacre.
"The Carranza officiala come Just as
near the truth when they aay there are
only two or three small banda of VIII
?hxsxs loft. They know very well that
Villa has more than &.000 men under htm.
and that so long aa the.*??? men are at
large the Ute of Americans in the terri
tory they control is net worth 2 rente.'
All British subjects in the state of
''hihuahua today were ordered to quit
Mexican consular agenta in Chihuahua
were immediately notified. Thia is the
hi at time British subjects have been
warned out of Mexico.
American minera and other investi
gators insist the effort of the Car
ransistas to run to earth the real mur
derers of the Americans In .Santa Ysa
bel has been made without great ef
fort to capture the bandits.
A refugee train, bearing 137 foreign
er? to the border, which left Chihua
hua City yesterday, has been stranded
five miles south of Terra Blanca by
the derailment of the engine.
Mrs. Mohr Has
Day with Faniiiy
Accused Woman Plays Par
chesi with "Charlie Before
Putting Kiddies to Bed.
By SOPHIE TREADWEL1.
Providence, Jan. li.?Mrs. Elisabeth
Mohr. with her little boy. "Charlie," ana
Virginia, her email daughter, thl* ?Ton
ing spent several of the happiest hours
that the little family have had together
since that August evening that ended tn
Dr. Mohr s tragic death.
This morning Mrs. Mohr went quietly
to mass. This afternoon, she was ?calm
and cheerful. She wrote several let
tera. Tonight, just before she pat ber
children to bed. she played parchesl with
"Charlie."
The prosecution has witnesses by whose
testimony they hope to prove that Brown
and Spellman, the two negro boya
killed Dr. Mohr. Several minor witnesses
will be put on the stand tomorrow,
persons who saw two negroes on a
motorcycle near the scene of the crime
and a few minutes after the shooting.
The keystone of the State's case Is
Healta, the negro chauffeur, who is ex
pected to tell a dramatic story, not only
of the actual murder, but of the many
conversations that preeede-d it, during
which Mrs. Mohr is aald to have told
the hoys they "must not go back on her"
and that she would give them CO00 to set
them up In the car-age business If they
succeeded in killing her husband.
THOUSANDS HOMELESS
FROM $40,000,000 FIRE
Flames, Aided by Hurricane, Sweep
City of Bergen?Buildings Dyna
mited to Stop Their Advance.
Christiana, Jan. 16?Twenty thousand
persons Are homeless as a result of a
Are which swept the city of Bergen to
day, causing property damage esti
mated at $40,000.000.
The fire, which originated in the busi
ness district, gained rapid headway.
The flames were fanned by a hurricane
and soon all the largest business build
ings, hotels, newspaper?, telephone and
telegrapii stations were destroyed.
Efforts of the firemen and police to
control the conflagration n? the flames
swept into the residential diratrlct proved
futile and dyi.amite was used to blow
up the buildings in the path ot the fire.
KAISER BEPOBTED RECOVERED.
* _
Wilhelm Return? to tke Theater of
V. ar.
Herlin, Jan. 16.?The followiag offlcial
communicatic-n was issued today:
"After his complete recOvery, Emperor
Wilhelm return?**! this afternoon to the
war theater.'*
Dr. Baker Speak:.
'The Evolution of Man" was the sub
ject of a lecture last evening by Dr. W.
W. Baker before the Washington Theo
?-????hica! ??'??deration, st its hall. 1216 H
street. T!*e evolution of the llf?: side.
or finer bodies, was cmphasiKxi
CARRANZA FORMALLY
PROMISES TO PUNISH
BANDITS WITH DEATH
Mexican Leader Laments Murder of Ameri
cans and ?Asks People of U. S. to Con
sider Difficult Problems Facing Him,
CHARGES MASSACRE TO VILLA
State Department's Report on Mexico to the Senate Will
Be Delayed?Senator Fall Says "America'' Is Spelled
"Anaemia Below the Border.
Lansing's Demand Fer Promise by Carranza
Death of the Bandits To Punuh tbe Banditi
Secretary Lansing wired Consul
Silumin, at Queretaro, last Wed
nesday as Tollow? :
"Urgently request Gen. Carranza
that lie order immediate and effi
cient pursuit, capture, and punish
ment of the perpetrator? of the das
tardly crime. Also strongly urge
immediate dispatch of adacquate
forces to the various mining camps
in the state of Chihuahua."
Consul Sill.man. at Queretaro,
wicad Secretary Lansing yesterday
as follows :
"(.en Carranza said that he had
already is*ued orders for the imme
diate pursuit capture, and punish
ment of those responsible for the
atrocity.
"He said he ha/1 declared those
responsible outside the law. to be
jmmshed with death if caught ?
G?n. Venustiano Carranza, First Chief of the de facto government
of Mexico, ha? decreed death to the bandit* who murdered the seven
teen American citizens and one Canadian at Santa Vsabd, Mexico, last
Monday.
This is Carranzas response to the formal -representation? sent to
him last week by the American government demanding the immediate
pursuit, capture and punishment of the perpetrators of the wholesale
massacre.
The answer was communicated to Secretan.? of State Lansing yes
terday by United States Consul lohn ?. Silliman, who laid tlie repre
sentations of the United States before the First Chief at ^uerataro.
Mexico, last Thursday.
aAS?A CENTER
OF FIGHTING
Three Separate Engagements
Now Being Fought with
Unsettled Results.
BRITISH RELIEF FORCE PUSHES
FORWARD IN MESOPOTAMIA
Official Report Says Turk? Suffered
Series of Defeats and Are
Now in Flight.
London, Jan. M.?The atraje? fighting
center of tbe great ?ar haa moved to
A aia.
Thr?*? ?separate engageme-nra are beint?
fought.
On the Caucasus front. Grand Duke
Nlehola? la fighilns the Turk* on a tor
niti* front tn a deaperate etrdeavor to
?maah hia way through Into ateaopotamla.
In Persia, the Ruaalana are at gre;?
?rlth. the Turka and Germana below
Hajnadan.
In Mesopotamia the Turka have been
defeated ln their endeavor to beat ba~k
G**n. .Animer, ?-ho t* eni?*a\'??ring to re
lieve the 10,000 i$rltiah troora beleagueriJ
at Kut-el-Amara. on the Tigris.
The Caucaaua engagement 1? 1**0 mile?
northeaat of Kut-el-Amar* and about
the aame diatan.e from Bagdad, and it la
for thl? Peralan center of communication
and key to the eaat that the triangular
campaign ia being fought
The center of the Caucasian fight la
along the ?lope* of the Karajan Dagrh
Mountain*, on the head watera of the
Tigrla. A new and general offenalve haa
taken place ?here by re-enforced Ruaaian
columna. The Turka claim to have been
vlctorloua.
The Russian official report claim.? a
victory at some unnamed placa.
On the other hand, the account of
the Feralan campaign ia altogether
from Kuasian aourcea. and claima a
victory.
The report of th* Mesopotamia light
ing, Issued by the official preaa bu
reau tonight, ?horra that the Turkleh
army, which lay in force on both
bank? of lhe Tigri*, twsnty-tlv* mil?* ,
south of Kut-el-Ajaara, In an attempt
, to bar the Briialh relief expedition.
haa r-ufTered a series of defeat* and la
| now In flight
KH?G GEORGE OPTIMISTIC
Wire?? Klaa 1'etrr ?.lite, ?* P...I....*
ta ???* Kl.? I Vctwry.
Saloniki. Jan. ?.?King George V, of
fcnglad, wired Petar, of Serbia, on <k?
or, aalon ' of the Greek New Year as
follow?
"I am fully convinced that the alila},
with the heroic Serbian array, ar* now
in a positicrr. to win back for your
people complete ndepend.-rv e and to
secure final victory"
Cameroon? Reopened tc Trade
London. Jan. It - The officia j. ? ,j m,.
reau announ? p.? that Victoria r ? !.;.
del Rey, in the ? a>ii?rouea hnn been
reopeoad to trade, subject ia rvatrlctkma.
?????-..? 4? ? mrrtr-mm G?**t*.4?
Carransa appeals t% Seer? tary sjao
?Jug moti the American psspl? t? haa?
with htm In his efforts te (tsar? th?
wide stretches of territory in Norther?
Mexico, where the mortiers took piar?
and reminds th? people of this cour?
try that even In the b?sst order???-! coa-t
munitie? in all countries outbursts
against law and order will occur with
destruction of life and property
He directly charges Villa with com
pilo!} in laat Monday's outrage, and
describes the murders aa part of a de
liberate effort to involve Mexico ln In
ternational complications
The massage of Consul Stillman. re
citing the reply of t'arranaa, la tu fol
lows:
"Department's telegram f January
12. massacre Americans at Santa Tsa
bel, received at 6:2?, and i m mod la tab
placed before Gen Carransa by tb? ln
person. *3en. Carranaa aald that h?
had already Issued order? for the im
mediate pursuit, capture and punish
ment of those responsible for ths
atrocity. H? stated that he believed
this outrage waa committed by men
associated direct!? with Villa, and that
it was done specially to provoke inter
national troubles st thia time sT.
said he had declarad those responsi hi?
outside tbs law. to be punished with
death, if caught
"He appeals to the Secretan* of State
and to the public of the I'rited Plate?
to consider ths wide strip of ths orrrtral
railway, the great difficulty of guardine
the entire distance, and the ?*omperetfe?
ly easy task ef destro) ing a train or at
tacking a small force.
???Ill rrole-rt km. ...
"He says thst nobody ca? lamant mor?
than he such an atrocity or be mars
cxmcerned about It, but that protection
Is relative and that even In the btsst
regulated states outbursts of disorder?
snd lawlessness may cause destruction
of property and loss of life.
He ss>s he I? expecting full reposta
from Gen. Trevlno and that all efforts
will be mad? to prottv-t American* am*
any other foreigners whs may be Ik
the district His belief Is the m issai: p
wss made pr-emedltat*dly by a Tra tad who
fled at ones after the raid
"81UJHAJI''
The report on Mexico called ter b.
the resolution of Senator Toll, ot New
Mexico, will ~probab?> be submitted te
the Seaate by the State Depart meet
on Thursday, lastend of tomorpow as
originally announced The
the delay given by depar
last night I? that th? torre of rserha
available* la not lar?, ??oeugt?*. u> rotr
plle the required dau before V ethtmoAt.
night
The report will not be submltteC direct
II?? to tbe Senate by th? Mat. rvpa-t
? ment, but will go to th? President whe
; will decide what part of the irlo?motion
la to b? submitted te th? --?nat? and What
part will be withheld
"What th? S?fiat? ?arant, t? know lr.
?my opink? aald Senator Tail, "aad
what th? peopl? want to know ?? the
level.?d are to? s-ra*?-? ts
b? befoa-ged ttr cries mt po?ttsal M
America is spelt Anaemia In Maxi??*
, ltela?*M-e Tmtme ai ? *l4?t?fs Trassi
talk un Brasil. v\ cr.u?rf al view a - Ad*?
