Lost or Fo u n d
T-D Want Ads Will Help You
I'ind It?Randolph One
Our W oman's Page
/he Cleverest of hashion Cuts,
Useful Hints etc.
'06th YEAR
VOI.ru K (Ml
.M .Mill:It IB
RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 1916. -TEN PAGES.
\\ KA i nmt
i* \<;i-: :i
-CLOUDY
PRICE, 2 CENTS
CARRANZA RENEWS!
HIS ASSURANCES i
10 UNITED STATES
Will Make Every Effort to
Punish Kandit Slayers
of Americans.
DEATH WILL BE SENTENCE
FOR EVERY ONE CAPTURED
To Issue Order Permitting Any
Citizen to Execute Any of Mur
derers "Without Formality."
RLAMKS ASSOCIATES OF VII.I.A
Thinks Out race Is Holm Kspcriully to
Provoke International Troubles
at Tills Time.
WASIIINOTON, January 1'! ? iciiiral
Carranza ? y tonewed his a.-sur
anccs to the United S t j ? t??:- that ho
-vv uI?! make every effort to f?11 riih 11
thoso rr-r*pr?tir:tl.l?? for t li <? murders of
American mining men ncfir Santa
^ Abel
\ dispatch front '"onsul Sllllmnri to
? lie Stato I 'I'll.! r tirient. dated at CJuore
t.n-o. '1 .".'1 tlii" morning, t rl ' '.1 r ?
ranza had persona 11> assumed Mr. Sill!
man, in reply I" 'be (lf|iartinfnt's ?!<*
1 n rt r ? ? i that the murderers In- run down,
tli at he "had issued oi'l'-t'i fot tin
immedmti pursuit. capture and puri
ishmcnt of those respotisi bl< for tin*
a 1 roi-it v "
Simultaneously, :ii a dispatch to
Klisro Arrcdondo. In: ;intli:iva'lor <1 .**? -
iguate here. 'ietieral Carr;itizn an
nounced that lie w,?h about to i".-*iie a
? in -rt* permitting any citizen of Mo U-o
to <\? ?? 1114 ? a: v oC tlii P.imli's "with
out formulitv
i>i*?i>\Tfit i-'ittni
I 1:1.1,s Ol* \ NV I It \ N( i;s
Tin* dispatch froiii ?!?"? r. ?i I Sillimait.
follows:
"P' imrlitK ntv t ? ? N 1 a m of .lanuni>
13. .*? I*. M. mas-., r. Americans ..*
Santa Yr-abel, at s: 'JO. ato'
Immediately p I :? 1 ? ? I before Hcneial
t'.irrar.za bv rut *i person. <;? i--r.il
Cnrranza ?.in! that lie hail already is
sued orders the nr. meo ia t. i? w r.-> ti It.
capture .itnl punis hment ?! those r< -
sponsible for t !i ? ? atro-uty Jfe stated
that lie IipIIpvciI this on tram- w.is com
mitted hy riM-n ;?s: oei.tted directly with
Villa, and that It wa ilone especially
to provoke intcriatlonal troubles at
this titrn lli- said he had declared
t hose responsible outside th.- law, to
he punisln.-n with <??-.?tli if '-iiii^ht
"II" ajipial to th>. Secretary of
Sta to and to the public of th- l'niti-i
Mate..- to 001 -ifh t !hi- w nli- strip of the
central territory. th.- wti-a'. uiMaailt ii.s
of guarding tin ditrkt ami the com
parative rasii.e'.s of <1* stroyin*c a train
near a small place. i|r> <-ays that no
one laments mon- or i - more concern*d
I'Vfr th'- crime ft:.!!. h*\ l>ut that pro
tection i- r< lat i\-e, an'I even in the
best protected states outbursts of -l<s.
order- ? ri'l lawlossin may cause de
al rtietion of property ami loss of life.
'He ?.ivs he is ex|ici -tliic full ropirt s
from 'Jenoral Trevino ami that nil e|.
fort* will he mail*- to prot>---t Ann rie.ins
ami at y other foreigner?, who may he
ltl th*' district. Ills 1.. lief is the
ma spa ere was made premeditatcdly by
.1 h,?nd who Med it once after th.- raid."
a i.iii- \ m \ *?si it 1 .it or
OM)l(,\ |M Moll M K VI-"
As iiratieei: that ".?oml 1 _'ti ptititsh
ment" would hi- visiteii upon the mar
il-irrs alroa'iy ti.nl ln-en k:\(ii the State
I tepartrr etit throimh Mr. Arrcdondo
Wheth' r a fur nal note from t'arr-in^a
is follow has tiot fie?-ti reveal*1'!.
1 '.irr:ifi7,'-'s ti-legratn to-day to his
(?mbas-y In-re follows:
"The government, under tr.y direetion.
has adoptf *1 every necessary measure
to ij:siiri tin- proserution of an etier
u ? 11 ? ampaiKti for tin" eaptuie and i!e.
Ktrti' lion of the parly of Villisra hand
its. and to i-ontinui' the same to its
00? lph-te ai-rornplishtMC!.t I hav. asked
fietn-ral l:n into I Trevino, command
lt\K th?* t'onstitutlonnlist troops In the
neighborhood of the *-sassinatio?i?. to
ol.tair for me the names of the assail
ants. Hi ordi-i that a decree may he
is?oeo j lacitit-r then otittdde the palo
of the law When this do.'ie any
citizen o: riti/.ens of tin- repuhlie will
hnvc the jlqht to arrist'the jruilty
parties without other warrant, and tfi
execute them without formality.
"Similar decrees were Issued aval exe
cuted in the eases of assaults and dvna
mitinc of trains in another section of
the republic within the year, notably
when a pnssemrer train w a? dynamited,
and its passengers assaulted near
\pi.\aco and nyafn near .Jalapa. These
decrees are mado effectivc. because itt
th'- opinion 'if the jrov> rtunent these
who per pet rate such assasslnatioim r.f
livmati leinss, be the victims natlw
MevuanH or forelfjners, must lie consid
er. d !n exa'tly the same c:\tei-ory is
those who dynamite the railway trains.
I sincerely deplore, the unpardonable
crime at Santa Yrabcl."
A I.I iMKIlirAXS SAI'K
IV WI-JSTKIl.Y t lllllt AHl V
(MiillUAlirA 'MTV, M KX ICO. Jan
uary i'?.?All Americans and other for
eigners at Madera, in Western Ohi
liua'.'ia. are safe, aecordlnpr lo a telc*
pher.e messafte received to-day from
Ousihiiiruchle. These include Hoy and
Hart K/amer, who, with I heir father.
Or. U. I'. Kramer, a ranchman, were
reported to have, been slain by Villa
troops. The cattlemen. Hen Snell and
Frank Woods, and .lames Locke, an
employee of the Habricora linm-h, con
< crr.inK whom there was much appre
hension. were reported to have arrived
?t |,;? .Inula, hater, it was said, tho
(Continued on Seventh Pnere.)
Trivxel?*ri? Bpt^een Richmond and Ihinrllle
are iftor<ti?il I ullninn Purler ltiilTel .service
IhavIiik Hlelmiond 10:30 A. M.. arriving;
Mnnvllle <15 T'. M.. and leavlnp n.invllln
?. 1 a p. ji.. nr.-lvtnpr Itl?-hmi?n<l S:30 r. Al.
via SOrTHBR.f RAIIAVAV. 1
I.
II I
Cold Wavc Warnings
for Atlantic Coast
\\ A KM I\t,TO.\, .Innunrv lit.?Cold
"n,,: wnrtiliiKH were InmiiimI to-night
l>.v |ho Wcntlicr 11 it r <-n u for tlie At
liintlc mitl |;hm tiuJf State, ricriit
riurlilit. I.oulnlniia iiuil Knat and
Smith lovtiM, i:?sj anil South Arkmi
mi* mid 'lYiiiirNnri*. Tlic cold
? cut licr In ti?. ohlo Valley tind I.nke
region ?ll| extend Munilu}' night
noiiIhctiHinrd to ?hi* Cuir mid \t
lanflc Connt.
Sturm MiirnliiK" nri- il|M|iliiyrd on
? he Atlantic 4'onnt from llntterun to
lloMtotl.
FATAL SUNDAY BUTTLE
TAKES PEACE OE SERMON
Tliirly State Troopers und Infuriated
>lt?l) of ."?()(> .Men and Women
FIkIiI ill Church.
i O.VK KlliliKl) AM) MANY
j Several Dying in Hospital and Sev
enty-Three Are in Jail?Cla^h
Comes When Reappointed I'ricst
Attempts to liold Serviecs.
ISpeeial to The Times-Dispatch.;
I'lTTSTON, l?A , January K..?In a
! pitched hiatth: between thirty *-'t;ite
j troopers anil a mob of f?Ot? infl'rlated
men and women in front of tin- Sacred
Heart <>f .Jesus I'oMmIi Roman Catholic
! < liur. li, at I>?i l'ont, near icii to-day.
' one of the rioters was killed. Several
?< t ?? dying iti the- i'itt-toti hospital
. tain I.con llitcher. of Troop It, State
[constabulary. an.I eight troopers wort*
; injured. Ross IluiiK r, of f'.ti lisle, J'a..
j o|t. of the troopers, received a ftnc
! lured which probably will ca.jsc
i his d'-a?h
I Scv en ty-three of the rioters are
. lodged in !lie count > jail at Wilkes
t.aiTe to-tiieht Thirty of this number
(only last Friday were held in contempt
?of court fo- Interfering with services
j at the church At tliat time sentence
j was suspend. .1
; TI<(IOIM-:i(S t.O TO I llt'ltl It
Tl> \SSIIIK I'llOTKf Till N
i-'ieriir Ceoge K ItUHs, .,f I.uzerne
County. went to Mij font Mils lnoinii:
'?> assure protect ion to Itev. 1'raiu is
Kurkowski. appointed by Risho,, M .1
I Mohan, of Seranton. to succeed lie v.
j I-rnncl.s s'o>vsho.-ki pastor at th<
i church there. The latter had had trou
ble With sotne men members of th<j
? ongregatlor. just before the holidays.
Rather than ha\e any disturbance he
left the little milling village and re
!turned to l.i: home, at Xnntlcoke. The
t faction opposed to the pastor favored
?the curate, Father ?;u/.wa. as his mic.
cesser Bishop llohan decreed other
: wis., and reassigned Kath-r Ki.rkow
j ski.
i When Kather Kurkowr>ki. surround
j e.l by State troopers, reached the
? church to day. a crowd of about "00
j men and women were gathered there.
! li e sheriff pleaded with the mob to
ldlspct.se and permit the priest to enter
, *lie 'i nr. I-, The mob ignored hi in. and
j worn.n began to throw red pepper and
; mustard In the of shonff
? and troopers. Then the church bell I.e.
I gar; t.> toll As tf l.y prearranged sig
nal. the mob charged the sheriff and
| State police
aptain Pitcher, who stood hcsl.le th?
j sheriff, was the tirst victim. I f,.
; struck on the head with a Ik .ivy flub
As he stagger..; back one of the dot.
ers hit him with a stone. Me f?)l ,.nJ
j or-clous lr.?r the arms of one of ' is
; men. and was carried through il,"
crowd to a house near-by. a cr.ll ua?
sent for re-enforcemcntv.
, >ii\ ST\vn THKiit <;itor\i>
\M? DltOI* i\ 'lit vol it THArun
eighteen troopers hurried from Die
local barracks to the scene. Hint sticks
( were brought into action in an efort to
disperse the mob The women tied In
, 'error The men stood their ground
t And one after another fell In his tracks
! Trooper llumer was In the thick of
, the Hunt when a burly man crept up
J,'hind him and struck him on tl-e head
. ?-lt.h a heavy club. Humer dropped
. Another moment and his assailant was
Mritehe.l out beside him by a fellow
j 'rooper. Troopers made wholesale ar
i rests of the ringleaders. Tliey were
j taken into the basement of the church
; .Hid placed nnder guard. Twcntv
I three men. who sought refuge In the
narochla? .-esf,^,,,.,. spv,.n ?.))n
. we-e hiding in the helfrv, were ?>e-.te-,
, "to submission when they showed
it'll t.
.
adler dies suddenly
I Me U?? Soto,} \?t|,ont, tl,
Improvements nn.l \\?H Al?,
Known (is Klmitu-ler.
f Special to The Tltnes-nispateh 1
Xi:\V IIAVK.V. COW. .January 16
ax Adler, seventy-five years old. a
noted authority on municipal improve
ments. died suddenly of heart disease
his home hero early to-day. lie
| was une of the founders of the firm
?f Strouse. Adler .V Co., one of the
largest makers of corsets in tlio world.
! He was director of several banks and
jirust companies and of numerous
I Hebrew social and benevolent organi
sations. 1 le leaves three children.
WILSON TO SEE STUART
Virginia Governor Will Indorse < on
gresitninn >lontngue for f. S. Su
preme Court \ tieaiic.T,
j U ASI IIN'GTOX. January 10.?Presi
i dent Wilson will devote much time this
j week to hearing delegations who will
propose candidates tor the Supreme I
Court vacancy caused by tlie death of i
I .Justice Lamar. So far he has given!
little thought to the subject, and callers ?
have received the impression that it |
may be several weeks before he makes i
an appointment.
Governor Stuart, of Virginia, will
see him to-morrow to indorse Repre
sentative A. J. Montague, of Virginia,
who already has recelvetl strong sup
port.
EYES OF CONGRESS
CENTER ON MEXICO
Protection of American Life Will
Be Dominant Problem
This Week.
PUNISHMENT IS DEMANDED
But Majority in Both Houses Is
Opposed to Armed
Intervention.
WASHINGTON*. .Iantiar> |, The
problem *? r securing protection for
Vmertcan 1 ir?- ami property in Mexico !
revived by the Kama Vsabei murder*.,
exporto?| by congressional leaders :
bo a dominant subject in the pro.
I, r,es of both houses during the
eoming week. Tssu< s- arising from the
Kuropean war have |,een ?'.i?pl?*t?>iv I
"vcrstiailnweil by it. and < ot .-ervsi'ivi>
I !'ls and other important lft-isi.it i\e
? meas i| r?'s under ennsidorat ion at
ilrawing the attention that would or
' dlnarily In- divert them.
ItKMWO I'DU IM Mx|M|i:\T
ll\.\OITS I \ WHKM S
M'-iiib?*r.w ?.f the House and Senate
una nitnour in their insistence that
?h? .'at; V ra be I murderers be punished,
hut th?- majority opposes any ft..,, th.it
'would result in Intervention, which!
might mean destruction of th? de fa,-to
government whirl, the fnitod States
and the Pa it-American nations led
establishing.
Mexico Will be the basis for form;(,
consideration by the Sena : <? K.)rei = n
11"lations Committe. on \Wdrn dn
when act-on on H.-.;ir> ftatl'.-r
!' '* r v nomination as ambassador to
-Mexico will he taken. Vdministrat.r,,,
lead' rs ar? hopeful l)l;if ., r<v t
recommending hi, confirmation will he
?sent to tiin Senate. Several Senator.
It..\vc\er. have announced that the*
Will oppose such a step vigorously, anil
tt generally is admit l<-d nothing can he
? lone toward . onilrmalion until the lie.
I'll).hearts have he(|, appeased by an
answer from President Wilson to Sena
tor Kail's resolution asking for reasons
which led to recognition of I'arranza.
; SMI UKTAII V I.A >mv,j
v\ii.b m i\ i: data hi-:aiiv
1' '1 ?' 'using has promised to
have data in connection with that
resolution ready for the President eurlv
! this week, and Senator Stone, chairman
>r the >enate Korean Relations Com
minor., hopes, the pre o.ler, fs will
l,,: s,'nt ?? Senate in ,iino fo, the
committee meeting on Wednesday
l.iscusston of the Mexican problem
on the iloor of the Scat- and House is
ex pec tod to arise from consideration of
various intervention resolutions Vo
? "".mittoe action on such resolutions' is
proba de a, tins Sector Core,
of Oklahoma. t>c,?ocr*i is consider,,,*
Mibuiittlng a resolution to direct the
use of Americjg, armed forces as aids
"V c'??-ran*n forces i:n protecting
American ci,:Zo,,s in ? neutral zone m
Mexico.
! I-ffe'islatioii in Congress is progress
<ng slowly, none of the supply bills
?eing anywhere iuar completion. The
louse passed two of the Administration
conservation measures, and the Senate
may take some of the,,, up this week
after a.-tion the Philippine self
government extension hill. \ vote on
this measure I,- expected on Wednesdav'
or Thursday.
Secretary McAdoo's dinner party last
?'~ht. with the Democratic members
o tie \\av-. at ! Means Committee and
?! ,,li: House Committees of M.-r
i chant .Marine. Currency and Foreign
Affairs as his Hues is. served as a
vehicle for coiiaid. ration of various ad
: ministration measures. There was no
attempt at any agreement uii a legisla
live prog ram.
j itBAUv to ivntom <t: m;u
Ml IP-PI lt( uask ?IU<
' hairman Alexander, of the. House
. Ier< luiiit Marine Committee. said to
, iiiKl!t he was ready to introduce the
new ship-purchase bill, after repealed
conferences with Secretaries MeAdoo
and Redllcld. and that he would confer
?lth President Wilson on Wednesday
and the,, would introduce it at on. o.
: The House Merchant Marine Committee
i 111 f'nmedlately arrange hearings for
next Week. The bill would appropriate
J.d'.OOO.OOn f(>,- [I... ..... 1 10
, ' Koxorriment pur
chase of ships. 1
; A Wide variant revenue views in
oncress was indicated at Secretarv
.,4'lVt v U!,S ro vo;? h'd to
p'fcht. An increased tax individual
1 ?rporate incomes, and a new p,v
on pasolme and . rude and reiined oils
amoiiK other thinu-s. have been
r.UM! Vy S"- "v was told
, last niffht there.is considerable opposi
tion to a gasoline tax amon? House
members, but that many favor exten
s.on of the income tax rates, repeal of
h free .st,?iar clause of the Underwood
tariff, an inheritance tax. and a tax on
, production and manufacture of war mu
nitions. House leaders, however haw
? no idea of formulating a revenue p'ro
t-ram until yho national preparedness
j Plan is disposed of and the exact needs
. apparent.
p?i-.PAiti;i)\i:ss mi:\si i{|.;s
wii.i, hi.; < o\smi:m:n
Consideration of the preparedness
II enures w || continue House com
i>r r i ??? Il.e week. To-morrow
Ilea,-Admiral Stanford will continue
his statement reKunliiiK yards and
docks before the XUVal Comm|ttee.
Qu.utermaster-C.eneral Aleshire will
testify regard,,iK the army ,eor?aniZa.
Hon bill before the House Military I
Committee, and the appropriations sub- !
committee will renew consideration of!
confidential plans for seacoast defenses !
The House this week is expected to
pass tho Ferris tHO-acre stock-ralsimr
homestead bill. affectinK seventeen I
States, and the third of the adminlstra- !
lion conservation measures. There will i
lie an attempt to l.rinjr up the privl- 1
leKod omnibus roads bill, contemplnt
| Uii; S-T.,000,000 Kedcral aid to States i
for hlKhway improvemcnis. ,
A ; ' t
CLEAR SAW FOR
'MORAL' MEASURES
Prohibition. Antishipping and
Other Acts Assured of Pas
sage by "Dry" Majority.
SPECIAL COMMITTEES NAMED
Bills Have Not Yet Been Intro
duced. and May Await Anti
Saloon League's Approval.
Although more than <n<> lulls in
eluding such oM friends as the came,
road reform. Toirens system. anti
Kambling nml ,r-o-or<linute Wills.
I,avi' a 1 ready been introduced and re.
ferred to commit tees, it has become a
matter of comment that not a single
on" of the expected "moral" measures
lias so far l?een presented to the 'len
? ral Assembly.
At the last session of tli*? Legislature
the enabling act was introduced on the
second da.v. My the end of the (list
wr-.-K there hail I.eon presented most
the important refoi rn measures
which later loomed larue on the legis
lative calendar.
Th" General Assembly of how
ever. Will not prow many days older
before the delude of reform legislation
will descend upon it. In the opinion
of \ve||-informed members, this week
will see the introduction of several of
the so-called moral and social reform
bills. Several of tlieni. it is stated,
have already been drawn.
wti-sai.oon i; wu.i.
llHtiT ON" WED.VKSnAV
in this connection, if is pointed out
that the Anti-Saloon League of Vir
ginia will meet here Wednesday In its
fifteenth annual convention, and will.
i:i the natural course of events, have
pertinent recommendations to make in
the direction of new legislation. While
the assertion that this organization
w ? 1 wic|d a direct influence in the
fry mi n k of the so-called moral meas
ures is subject to iiualificatIons and
is unpalatable to many members of
the General Assembly, it is nowhere
seriously denied.
Having frankly and openly sought to
secure the election to this Central As
sembly of men who are in sympathv
with its aims, the Anti-Saloon League,
tt is assumed, will mold, at least in
Hie rough, the reform legislation that
will be enacted by the General Assem
bly. a majority of which Is pledged to
tlie league's reform policies.
i?kv i;i.i:Mi:vr iias sakk
MAJOH!T\ IV IIOTil IIOCSICS
With a safe majority in both houses
and a special committee to handle ex
peditiously such bills as may be sub
mitted. the prohibition forces of the
General Assembly have felt no need for
haste. No reform bill of the approved
type will suffer this year the vicissi
tudes through which similar bills
hi bored at former sessions. There is
ample time to wait for the meeting of
? lie Anti-Saloon League and its legis
lative recommend at ions
1?\"" amonthose who voted against
the enabling act. there is a disposition
to allow the "dry" leaders to shape the
bills so that prohibition may be given
a fair trial tit the hands of its friends.
Such speculation as exists with re
gard to the prohibition and moral
measures that will be introduced at the
present session is chiefly on how
radical this legislation will l?e. Will
the antishipping bill, which is coming.
In- a.s ir..'i-l ou:id is the North Oiroluia
law. which limits li<iuor shipments to
each iild.viilu.il to one quart in a fort
night ' Will Virginia emulate Ala
bama'.- law, wheli prohibits the sale of
newspapers ami periodicals carrying
liquor advertisements? Will there he
an attempt t<> create in Virginia the
oflice of commission) i of prohibition,
as has been done in West Virginia?
Will this commissioner lu- an appointee
of the Governor, or .-hall he be elected
b.\ the Legislatori .' These ami other
fruitful speculations are going the
rounds
.suai,i, rnoiiinn ion < o>niisst(i\i:i{
iii: i\ih:i'i:m)i:\t ok t.ovicicvoitr
The Governor's niessahc recommend
ing the .strengthening of the central
nut horn v as' ,t means of securing a
faithful enforcement of the prohibition
laws is popularly interpreted to mean!
that be would not look with fnvor upon
the creation of the otlice of comiiils- <
sioiier of prohibition, if such an oflleinl
is to be independent <>f the executive 1
branch ot the government.
Among the matters which the (Jen- j
eral Assembly must decide very short
I ly is the i|iiestion of ,i special primary J
{to elect delegates to the National Dem
; ocratic Convention. Lieutenant-Gover
nor i:il>.-oi; has recommended iegisla
lion to this end in order Hint there may |
I be a liberal compliance with the plank
of the Baltimore convention declaring
for the selection of convention dele
gates and national committeemen by
primary election.
It a late simue.^tion of Mr. Kllyson
[ Hint t ae primar.\ of April I. when all
cities ami towns will nominate Council
tn< n and city ollb-ials. l?e used also for
tlie selection of convention delegates in!
to be followed, the Legislature will
have to act before Kobrnarv 4, if jt
desires to preserve the provision that I
notice of candidacy shall be filed siv'ty
days prior to the primary in which a
candidate proposes to offer himself,
(?nolo; or
MAI 1110 J.HKT TO < O X VI-WI'IOX
Hiscusslons of tho primary problem i
b.v prominent I'emocrats in the General I
Assembly and out of it indicate .< well- |
deiined reluctance to order a readjust - '
ment of the present primary schcme to
accommodate a party resolution about '
whoso interpretation there Is difference
of opinion. The belief was current yes
terday (hat tho (Jeneral Assjnibly will
not order a special primary for tho
election of convention delegates. ;,nd
(Continued oil Second Page.)
TRAVKI, VIA IIOAT TO BAI.TIMOKK
"'V-'' New stenmem Kx-j
' llent riioftl.s. Suitor.,<.m* ,u,,| private hnth.i
?eav* I i:io I'. M. Phono |
Barrier Which Holds
Crown Prince Bac^
Strengthened Daily
French, Sure of I heir
Ground, Confident Ger
mans Not A hie to
Pierce Lines.
VKKlJl'N. January II <via I'ans, dc
laved).? .Met/. is visible through field
li'lcW'Opcs from litis ureal 1' rem ?
stronghold. !>ml its miiwurks !>? j
reached by the honvii'si French uun: j
The defensive harrier between 111'' nvi j
places. after a four days' examina'so ,
i?f the lines in the Argonne. the Woevr j
and the Vosges. shows a strength un
suspected by the average civilian.
It is along this front that < town
I'rince Frederick William's fort es aie
being held bark, and positions. alread\
seemingly impregnable. are being
st retigthoned every day. The 1* riMU'h
are sure of their ground. and that,
should the rrown prince decide upon
another effort to pierce tlie French 1
lines, it will end as it ended before. I
The general at the head of the army j
j in the Argonne ami Woevrc. who re- j
I eeived the Associated Press correspon
dent. is most confident.
The heavy rains notwithstanding. i
the work of improving the approaches*. '
removing mud from the roads and
making easier the routes for the supply :
trains still Roes on.
Th.- Verdun forts are most important ?
strategically. Observers on constant '
? guard have a view of the plain of the)
Woevrc and of little villages dotting ;
I the territory separating theni from
| the enemy positions. Filtering a tunnel ,
! lighted by candles, one reaches the
| place where the guns are manipulated. ,
? A storeroom adjoining is tilled with ?
' melarilte shells, giving some idea of the :
! damage which could be inflicted, j
i Namur and I.iege have demonstrated \
i what little reliance can be placed on
for titled defenses against the heaviest
modern puns.
j IIAItllKI) WlltK THi:vrm:s
l>HO>IIM':.VT l'AUT
Parboil wire trenches here, as else- ;
j where, play a prominent part. There J
I has been comparatively little firing;
j from the large guns of the forts, but
i their moral effect has been consider
able. The commander of the fort is j
the I'aris representative of a Cincinnati j
' tlrm.
? Proceeding almost due south from |
I Verdun, there is direct contact with the I
German line, as the frequent firing in- |
' dlcatcs. The Germans are in posses- j
1 sion of St. Mihiel. and on hill -V7. ;
where they are intrenched, they have j
i hoisted the German. Austrian and Bul
garian and Turkish flags, which can
be seen fluttering in the wind.
j "Mad taste," was the comment of a
'captain attached to headquarters when I
, his attention was called to this.
Though the Germans possess St. ;
Mihiel, the French believe that by their
control of the strongly fortified natural '
positions in this neighborhood they
I have the upper hand. The first-line j
trenches in this district are very close, j
| but the French have an advantage in
possessing positions to the rear of :
their second ami third-line trenches, j
which are on high ground and dom- i
mate those of their adversaries. An
advance bv the Germans would seem
, to be impossible against the natural
j obstacles and the defenses, which have ,
been improved unceasingly for six
months. A retreat by the Germans is
considered equally as difficult as a for
ward movement.
Kntratice to one of these positions is
through a forest in the Woevrc by
means of a flat car. about thirty feet
; in length, drawn over very narrow
gauge tracks by four horses, on two
of which there are soldier out-riders
"Village Xegro" reads a sign stuck :
I on a tree, the place being so named
in honor of the black troops.
f;OOi> VIEW OK (iKIIMAX UMIS
ritO.M NTIlONtillOI.I) I'OMTII? V
' A pood view of the German lines is
i to be had from the stronghold position.
: which is frequently bombarded. Only
a day or two ago nearly .f'ti shells
I were hurled at it. Preparation for all
! kinds of attack at this point are most
complete. Tubs of chemicals, spraying
I machines and masks for the soldiers
are placed conveniently in case of an
I attack by asphyxiating gases.
i Near L.a I.esire. as the comfortable
1 officers' quarters are called, is a small
: wooden chapel, where services con.
I ducted by a captain-preacher are held
1 on Sundays, often tinder the tire of
, the German guns.
! From St. Die, one <>f the largest
jellies in the Vosges. a winding moutt
> tain road, part of which is exposed to
[ German shell fire, leads t" the base of
; a crest l.TiOO feel liiph. Hero is to be
seen one of the Pest ??.samples ?>!
I modern mountain defenses. The ascent
is made by a narrow mule palli. care
i fully constructed by territorial troops.
1 A short distance up the slope are
j trenches protected by a network of
j barbed wire These are old positions,
as an advance iias been made here since
j <Mi the summit is an elaborate sys
i fein of well-construeted trenches of
j first, second and third lines, isiock
! houses equipped with machine guns are
! so arranged that should the Germans
on the'adjoining heights attempt an
attack, they Would be caught by the
I fire from these puns. The advanced
I sentinels here arc aided by dogs.
.loiiepli IlouRliton Dead.
STAMFORD, CONN., January If..? |
Joseph Goodhue Houghton, president I
of the Fidelity and Trust Company of!
Stamford, and for twenty years a
prominent, figure in the public and bust- j
ness life of Stamford, is dead at his
home here, after seven weeks' illness, j
Mr, Houghton was born in Petersham, j
Mass . September C!, 1S4^'. He was the I
sou of Key. James Clay Houghton, a,
Congregational clergyman. and of
Julia Morton, of ISnat Windsor, Conn. {
Emperor William
Returns to Front
111 :it I.I N. .laitnnry HI ivln I.omlon.
.1 iiiiiiitr; IT i.? The follow In* olllelal
i-uititiitinlenlion tthh l?oiueil to-day t
??\fler Ills fimiplol* rci-mrrj, 1mm
lirr.ir William rrtiirnril Sunday af
ternoon to tin* "?*r Ihriilrr.
Micce*wfHlly <lpirntfd On.
I50MI*.. January III.? \ocord|nK ??
reports rccclvcd by * ntlcnn.
.. mperiir William underwent n"
operaI Iiiii Inst Thursday. Although
Hi.- operation In drserlhrd n* having
iM-fll MlCCI'WsfUl. ?? '* """ "
v?erk 111 iimt elapse liefore 111*
Irnty Jim > l>e pronounced out of
?lunger. .
BUIIKIE DOES NOT BEST
ON STORAGE BITTEM
1
Kdison's Invention Absolved lrom i
All Responsibility f??r Disaster |
to Submarine IC-2. j
SKlMIKT 1XQUIUV IS UI-XD
Another Mertinp of Board Will He
Hold To-Dny. ami Daniels Will
(Jet Investigation Under Way?Of
ficials Itefuse to Discuss Accident.
NKW YOUIC. January 1 ?>.? A state
ment indicating that th ? new Kdison
storage battery was not in any "ay
responsible for the explosion on the
submarine K - - at the New YorU Navy
Yard yesterday wns made to-night l?y
Miller Reese Hutchinson, chief en
gineer for Thomas A. lSdison ami a
member of the naval consulting board.
IMIKI.IMIXAIO l.NQI llt\
IIKI.I) IX SKI IIKr IIv llO.\Hl>
'1 ho preliminary inquiry into the ex
plosion was hold in secret to-day by
the board or inquiry appointed by Hear
Admiral Nathaniel It. t.'shcr, command
ant of the navy-jarrt. Neither Admiral
Usher nor any of those present would
discuss what occurred at the inquiry,
at which persons on board or near the
K-2 at the time of the explosion \\'jie
questioned at length.
Rear-Admiral rubor made the fol
lowing formal statement to-night:
? The hoard of inquiry met to-day and
went aboard the submarine, where they
conducted a thorough investigation.
The Investigation was not finished, and.
Iheretore. the board will Hi;itin meet
to-morrow. No conclusion was reached."
SKCHKTAII V l)AM KI.S
MAKKS Ml STATKMKXT
Secretary of the Navy Daniels, who
is expected lo name to-morrow a hoard
of Inq.tit y to conduct a formal Investi
gation. left for Washington this after
noon without milking any statement re
garding ?h<- explosion. At the navy
yard, inquiters were turned away wi'h
tstatement that It .'.tr-Admiral I sher
and others conducting the inquiry had
"nothing to say."
At th?- hospita'? where the injured
were t iken it was said several of them
were It: a serious condition, ami one is
expeeled to die.
Nothing approximating an official
theory as to the cause of the explosion
which resulted ir the death of four
workmen and the injury of ten others,
was obtainable.
The only light shed upon the disaster
was contained in the statement of Mr.
Hutchinson, who absolved from blame
the ICdison bsttti ry designed to minimize j
the danger to submarine cr<ws result
ing from accumulations of gas. Th?J
K-"2 w: s the only boat thus far equipped
with these batteries, the t.sts of which
were reported to be thoroughly satis
fa? toi y.
<A \ I IM) Ml I'A I I.T
WITH S'l'Olt At ? II \TTKIt V
? I have made as complete Inspection
of the Interior of the submarine. 2
as conditions will at present admit."
sai<i Mr. Hutchinson. "This inspection
I n-at'.e as Mr. Klison's chief engineer
and per;oiial repi esentatl ve. ! Iia<v
l'ornn-l a tentative opinion. This 1 ha?c
transmitted to the coinmtfndant of the
New York Niivv -Vaiil, under whoso
jurisdiction this boat was on January
)"?. I!? 1 It is subject to revision when j
.ill the lacs are brought forth by the;
ooard ot" imiuiry, which Admiral I'sher I
has or Icr?1
? \s to t it- Kdison battery, w ith all j
the facts atiil conditions before me, I j
see no reason to recommend to Mr. j
Hdi*?on any changes or alterations in ;
the theory, coumruction, or method of j
Installation of the Kdison submatinej
t <'!>e slot a v, e battery. The battery in
the 1-.-2 docs aot appear to have been j
injured in the least.
A lan.'o nnnihfr of persons wen' to
the naty-yard this afternoon to view!
the wreck of the submarine, but nr.i
rines in guard prevented them front
goiii;.' closer than twelve or lifted) feat.
Ml Kl UTIII tlt A II \ ICKS
to ixoicaTi ( Ai si:
WAS! 11Nt'STOX. January I?i. > fur
ther advices to indicate wlifriiic/^uswl
the explosion on the submarine K-?
yesterday at New York were received
at the Navy Department to-day. and
Secretary Daniels issued a statement
saying the result of the olllcial in
vestigation would have to l?e awaited
before a llnal decision on the point
could be reached.
Observation Mrrpln* Cnr In Atlanta.
via SOt'TIIKllN ItAII.WAY. ?. P. M iliill>.
Tw.t other trains. 10:no A M ;in<l 11:15 P. St.
ivlth Pullman Cats, l'honu Mitdl&oti 2~>2.
TURKS HIT HARD
ON TWO FRONTS
BY ALLIED FORCES
Russians on Offensive in
Caucasus on Line of
100 Miles.
BRITISH STILL PRESSING
THEM IN MESOPOTAMIA
Ottoman Troops Along Both
Banks of Tigris River Are
Forced to Retire.
LITTLK FIGHTING KI.SKWIIKRK
Italy Planning to Give Adequate As
sistance to Montenegro
and Serbia.
The Turks' are now being attacked by
j both Russians :iml Itritlslii 1 n * 11
I Caucasus, the Russians. greatl> re
rnforced, arc on the offensive along
.i front of almost 100 miles, while In
! Mesopotamia the P.rltish have forces
j the retirement of the Ottoman troops
I alone both banks ??f tin- Tigris RP ot
to the south of Kut-el-Amara. am! still
are closely pressing them on the cast
and the north.
Constantinople reports that near
Karadich the Russians were defeated
with heavy casualties, while. Pctrograd
I assorts that at sonic unnamed place
largo number <>f Turkish utllccs and
men, war materials and provisions,
eight Runs and eight machine guns
were captured by the ltu-sians. Suc
cesses for the Russians in tlio llghtlm;
| in Persia are also claimed by Petro
| grail. In its ollioiaI r< pore I'etrogrnd
| makes the first announcement that the
i Germans are lighting with the Turks
i In this region.
| The Turks in retreat along the Ti.;ri.s
| are those who have held back t.Jcn
I eral Vylmer's column proceeding tip
i the river to tho r.lief of the British in
Kut-el- \mara.
NOT MI CH KlldlTIXti
OX OTItKIt FltOVIS
I On the other fronts, except in Mon
j tenegro, little fighting is in progress.
The offensive of the Russians in Kast
Gal Ida and along the Hessarahian front
has again r;ied down. On tho line In
France and Rolgium the operations have
consisted mainly of artillery duels and
mining and countermining work. The
big p.rltish guns have thrown shells
into 1,1 lie, but Merlin says only slight
damage was done.
A t-ench taken by t!ic Vustro-llun
; garian for.'cs from f!i?v Italians near
I the Toltr.lno bridgehead and an in
| crease in the Italian bon.'oardincitt of
this region and also of I'Jorl/.ia, Mrzli
v?r)i and Monte San Michelo form thrf
chief irterest on the Austro-i tnlian
front.
In Montenegro the Austro-German
forces continue therr pursuit of tho
; Montenegrins, capturing from them
I men and ammunition.
The Montenegrin government is now
at Scutari. Albania, according to an
I unofficial report from lierlln. Advices
fro:n Home say that the Italian Cabinet
has bemin plans for i-iving adequate
assistance to Montenegro and Serbia,
but the nature of this aid anil the
manner in which !t will be riven are
i not seated.
1'he semiofficial Overseas News
; Agency of rterlin discredits the att
, nouuebn-en: thai the French' submarine
j l-'oucanlt recently sank an Austro-llun
, garian cruiser of the Xovara fvpe in
i the Adriatic. "Since no \ustro-Hun?
garian ship is missing," says the news
: agency, "the Foueault must have sunk
a sitip of the entente powers by mls
! take." ?
i 1TAI.Y \V I I.I, <;<> TO \lt> or
SKIllllA AND llO.NTlOVKOftO
j fSpccial Cable to The Times-Dispatch.!
PARIS, January lfi. ? Italy has de
cided at last to give "active and ade
quate aid to Serbia and Montenegro,
according to a Rome dispatch.
Steps to this end. lite dispatch says,
have been taken as the result of long
j conferences between King Victor Eni
; ruaiiue! and his Ministers or' War, Ma-'
I rine and Foreign Affairs.
i Meanwhile, the Montenegrins aro re.
! ported to have evacuated the towns of
I Nisi and Podgoritzt, to the cast of
< ctinje. rho ofllcial statement issued
at Vienna to-day adds that the Aus
; tro-llungarians north of Grahovo. near
j the Albanian frontier, have captured
: -T.o Montenegrins, together with a
! fully Qc|tiippod ammunition depot.
"Tho pursuit of the Montenegrins
(continues,'' concludes the official note,
"and the number of prisoners captured
I near Iterane (in the interior of Monte
negro) has reached 500."
The Montenegrin government has ar
rived at Scutari, according to furthoi*
Vienna advices, and the Scrbiun gilvl
eminent is to k> removed to the Island
of Corfu. This isle, which belonpa to
(.?recce, was recently seized b'. tlie
I* rench, with the avowed purpose of
making It a. rallying point for the
?scattered remnants of the Serbian
army.
A Salonik i dispatch to the Paris
Temps, dated Saturday, tells of a tie la \
in the proposed offensive of tho Tell
tonic-ltutgarian-Turkish troops against
Salonik i. The dispatch sa\s no ad
vance probably will bo made for twj
weeks, because of the difficulties en
countered in the transport of artillery
and munitions. Daily aerial reconnois
sauces keep the allies informed of
the disposition of the troops gathering
for the attack.
l*KTHO(ill.ll> Itt:TOUTS
CAI'TI UK OK TI'ltKfi
PETItOClRAD, January 1?? (via I<on
don). An ofllcial communication given
out to-day by the Russian War Office
says:
"In the course of righting tr. thu
Caucasus January H, we raptured
twenty Turkish officers and more thun
400 mnn. a quantity of war fc-nd en
