Who Says Seattle Has No Winter? A Scene on Green LaKe Sunday Afternoon
.Q rf *" lu " u tle * c nJ*XJ£s g* rk <lgpart '»eX'S!urj;wa»ia kc nat Green Lake Mphotograpner
Merger Plaa D®«siiii B f[
L®o!k £rmd ft® S&aur
If it will interest you to know
what The Star think* of the pro
posed terms of consolidation for
the Commercial Club and the
chamber, turn to page 4 and read
the first editorial.
BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS LINE UP IN RAILROAD RATE FIGHT
Commercial Club, Transportation Club and Others Will Intervene in Case
GILL REPLIES
TO ERICKSON;
CANDIDATES
TALK IN STAR
YOU MUST READ STAR TO GET ALL
SIDES IN CAMPAIGN FOR MAYOR
OUvar T. IrlckMn, candidate far mayor, laauad a public letter
Friday, In which ha roundly rapped Mayor Gill.
Tha Star was tha anly dally newapaper In Seattle to print It.
Monday Mayor (Mil iaauad a lattar to THa Star, anawering Brick
-B#Cl*
Tha Star la tha laijr pa par In Seattle to print thla Ift tar, too.
Austin Qrtmtha Aleo dapanda Xh>.ls* for % tmlr jtraaaa
tation of hi* mayoralty alalma.
Tha Star la tha Opan Forum for tha mayoralty eandldatea. The
public muet road Tha Star to got a full and fair diacuaaion of tho
mayoralty fight. Tho Star la tha only papar In which all aapiranta
far tha moot Important poaitlon In tho city proaont thalr vlewa.
In hla lattar Friday, Ertckaon mada tha following pointa:
Mayor Gill la Hnad up "with tha Pugat Sound Traction
company, tho Chamber of Commoreo. and tho corporation
nawapapara in tha fight ifqainet municipal ownerahip."
Gill oppoaad avary affort to extend tha city car Una into
paying tarrttory, "puraulng thaaama policy aa whan ha waa
mayor baforo. whan ha blocked tha extenaion of tha light
ayatam Into Ballard."
Gill pralaad tha Renlck law, "which waa Intandad aoialy
to crippla city utilltiea."
Gill oppoaad tha extenaion of tha city light ayatam to tha
Duwamlah valley. altho It waa paying bualnaaa.
GUI voted to Increaaa reafc>nce lighting from 7 conta to
V/ t conta whan ha waa In the i ouncli.
Mayor Gill today issued a letter replying; to charts made
by Councilman Kriikwn, in a letter to the public, which ap
peared in this paper last Friday.
Gill ridicule* Krick son's claims to office. He defend*
his own attitude toward the city's public utilities, and de
clares he has "put in eight hours here at the city hall on
city work where Krickson has put in one." He also defends
his record in the council, which Krickson had attacked.
■ The mayor asserts the only issue of the campaign is tax
ation, and declares that Krickson, as the dominating influence
in the council, has done much to counteract Gill's own efforts
toward saving money for the taxpayer. Gill's letter follows:
Editor The Star: In your Issue
of the 14th Inst appears an open
letter from Mr Erlckson pertain
ing to my candidacy for the office
of mayor, and to what l l * concede*
to be my official shortcoming*,
much more than It appear* to con
cern his fltnes* to succeed me.
In discussing thla letter, It I*
hard for me to differential* be
tween Mr. Erlckson. ae an Individ
ual, and Mr. Erlckaon. convened by
himself and hla secretary's type
writer In his raparlty as the Public
> Srnershlp league.
However, I think It Is only due to
>ur many readers. It consistent
Ith your policy, that I lie allowed
put my candidacy In what I re
gard as the proper ll([ht before
Ifci In the first plsre, let me say that
Mr. Erlckson haa no more chance
of waging the coming campaign
with me on fake ls*ue*. such as ho
mentions (the so-called Ilenlck act.
the Referendum league or kindred
aubjectsi than he ha* to solve the
questions of who struck Hilly Pat
terson, or who abducted one
Charles Ross.
The Issue I* not municipal tit 111
ties or any other than what It was
two yesrs ago
The Issue Is TAXATION, high or
low?
I, as a member of the city coun
cil, helped Install Seattle * water
plant and probably wa* a* largely
ln»trnmental a* any other person
In Installing the light plant, at a
time when it wa* much harder to
favor Its Installation than It I*
now.
The public generally understands
that 1 have consistently upheld
and upbuilt those two ntllltle*.
1 might *ay in passing, (or th<
benefit of those who do not remem
ber. that In the winter of 1905-06
.I'idge William Iflckman Moore,
who hart always been a consistent
municipal ownership advocate a*
JUi our light and water plant*, *««
a candidate for major In the demo
cratic primaries.
Telia of Old Campaign
Thl* waa before the present non
partlasri syateni.
At that lime Mr Brlckson, hav
your readers.
lag b«cii duly • h> poderinlcked" by
a campaign fund of I 2. r >o put up bv
a couple of prominent antl Moore
democrats, head* of a large corpo
ration such as he now abhors, be
came a candidate upon the demo
cratic ticket, calling himself the
"btiKlnes* men's candidate "
To those who ire Interested In
the chameleonic chsng»s which po
lltlcal aspiration* may produce, the
reading of the flies of the newspa
per! of that time and the ascertain
ment of the political support
which Mr. Erlckson gladly accept
ed would be of much Interest.
Mr. Erickson'a criticism of my
position on the municipal owner
ship of street railways Is entirely
uncalled for, for the reason that I
have always maintained and did
maintain two years ago when your
pa|>er supported me. tbat Hny at
tempt at a competitive system of
street car lines In Seattle would be
ruinous to the city, and that If the
city wished to engage In that busi
ness It would have to wait until, by
a vote of the people, money suffl
clent to condemn the line of the
private company could be voted
under our debt limit, and then. If
deemed advisable, the city should
run all the lines
Thst is still my position
Helped Revoke Franchise
In 1910, I signed the ordinance
authorizing bond* to purrha*e the
Kenton line, and I procured the
revocation of the franchise of the
Seattle, Itenton and Southern for
non-compliance with It* provisions.
I frequently stated in the cam
paign two year* ago that after that
forfeiture, my successor* in thla
office and the city council had. liy
their acceptance of the iier'-entage*
earned and other recognition* of
the franchl*c forfeited, lo*t nil
rights under that forfeiture and
that when the ma*s of litigation
which for four years wa* allowed
to slumber n* Mr. Erlckson *t»t
ed In the council ui>on hi* order —
the city would be beaten.
1 stated two year* ago that
the diversion of the Kenton line
condemnation liond fund, for the
purpoae of building Ulvlsion A, wa*
a municipal crime nnd I still ad
(Continued on pags 8.1
The Seattle Star
: THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS :
"WHEN YOU STICK A MAN YOU CANT LOOK"
How It Feela to Kill a Soldier in a Bayonet Charge. TOLD BY ROBERT MINOR
Thle eketch waa drawn from a description and poae by an English soldier Juet returned from Oalllpoll. "The Turks are dreaaed In
rags," he told me. "We know that a bayonet charge la won ae aoon ae we gat paat their fire, for they don't underetand bayonete. They
are brave enough, but they are helpleea when we get up to them. Wa Juet etlck 'em. We have ordare to etrlke at the cheat, and that
alwaya geta 'am eomewhere."
"How doe* a man'e face look when he's stuck?" I asked.
"I don't know," ht replied. "You can't look I never kniw a man who could look. Whan you aaa you've got him, you juat turn your face
away; and when you feel your bayonet sort of ooilng back out of him, you take It out and etep around him with your face away. Then you
go for another. I don't want to talk about It." —Robert Minor.
Montenegro Asks Peace From Austria
KING FLEES TO
ITALY; TINY
COUNTRY
GIVES UP
BERLIN, Jan. 17.—Making
the first break in the ranks of
ths allies, Montenegro has
asked her enemy, Austria, for
peace.
Cruahed and broken and
threatened by complete de
struction before the Austrian!
overrunning her, the country
has surrendered completely.
Announcement of Montenegro'*
request for pes'e name today front
Count Tlaaa before the Hungarian
parliament.
Parliament hart Ju«t finished the
flrat order of business when Tlsra
asked permission to Interrupt, said
the dispatch, detailing the news
Me Informed parliament that the
Montenegrin king and parliament
had naked for Inauguration of
peace negotiations
Tlsaa said that Austria demand
ed that Montenegro lav down her
arms unconditionally and that
King Nicholas had acceded to this
proposal. Negotiations, he added,
will begin Immediately
Parliament burst forth In a Joy
ous demonstration at the tiding"
The rejoicing was reflected In
Itudapest ao*l Berlin
It la understood King Nicholas
ha* gone to Italy.
Probably an Austrian will alt on
the throne h« quit when the stress
of war became too serlou* for him
longer to bold out
The crisis In Montenegro came
with the culmination of the Teu
tonic campaign agslnat .Serbia Aus
trian forces turned their attention
to an Invasion of the little country
and had swept over the state and
Into the capital, Cettlnje.
VOLUME 11 SEATTLE. WASH., MONDAY. JANUARY 17. 1916. ONE CENT
THOUSANDS ENJOY SKATE
ON SEATTLE LAKES SUNDAY
Seattle skated Sunday.
We mean a regular innocent Ice
skate
It wa* a perfectly temperate
skate.
Cold -Ice. nndnr*tand? Stale's
dry.
The park board got busy during
the last of the week and acraped
the snow off 240 acres of Ice at
Qreen I«ake
Ten thousand people, according
to the park board estimate, skated
there Sunday.
Then the public utilities board
*et men to work at I<ake Hurlen
And 1,700 people akated there Sun
day.
Spaces were cleared of snow at
both iskes More snow Is being
cleared away at both lakes Mon-j
ORDER BOYS ARRESTED FOR
ARSENCE FROM N. 0. DRILL
Private Willis Jamison, 19, of Co.
D, Second Infantry. National Ouard
of Washington. Is In the county
jail Monday, serving out s fine of
»IS6O Imposed for being absent
from di 111 without leave on Dscem
ber 16.
Me (■ a Mallard high school boy.
son of II Jamison, a bricklayer,
of 6210 Huasell ave Me walked
Into the sheriff s office Saturday
evening and gave himself up.
A storm of protest hss gone up
from members of the sheriff's force
over the wholesale arrests of young
men,
"A fine way to stimulate prepar
edness'" was the comment of I'nder
Sheriff Stringer, who sent a letter
protesting to Ad.lt. Men Maurice
Thompson against serving nine
other warrants.
day. so that facilities for the real
Dark East sport will be sufficient
to meet the demand*.
Patrols, with life line*, have been
e*tabll*hed at Ureen hake by the
park board, to prevent accidents
The board Is running a checking
station, and keep* up fires
lantern* are lighted near the
danger tones at night.
Electric lights listc been pro
vided at flurten
Lunch vendors are making a
cleanup.
If the cold weather keeps up. the
city will make enough money out of
skaters who travel on the l,eke
Hurlen line to pay off the deficit
i»n Division A.
They were hanging onto the cars
Sunday by their eyebrows.
The letter stated that some of
tho*e whose arreat* were demand
ed by MaJ Fred W Llewellyn,
president of the *tnte delinquency
court, were 111 in bed.
Other* for whom warrants have
been Issued are: Carl Anderson.
2942 25th nve W.: Arnold Straune,
153fi W, Mth *t ; A ltre*heau, 319
Fifth a\e N ; I*. Anderson, filiK
Trinity place. Howard A. Conklln
(17 years oldi. 1918 Kir »t ; O. •'
H. C. Ilevden, 2931H* Euhrman
nve.; Edward T. Ilussey, 202 Nh
varre apts.. Seventh and I'lke: L.
W. Ferdinand, V. M ('. A., antl
Henry I*. (leorge, ill of pneumonia.
tioi-'.S AT memi.H
lllKh bow
4t42 m. in., in.4 ft. 1ii.%0 n. m . I» I ft.
ip. in., iix fi tina i» m.. i.:ti.
ALL RECORDS
SMASHED DY
THIS COLD
SPELL
Here (toe* your old weather rec
ord.
I>on't fomo around any morn with
that wheeiso about how. hack In
limply limp, they had a spell thai
makes the 1916 cold siege In Se
attle look like the tropic*.
Monday I* the 10th consecutive
crlap, cold day that Wrnther Miin
Salisbury has wished upon the
community.
He says that In 19(i9 there was
weather like this for IS days.
Hut If there has ever been a
longer cold spell tnan the ore we
are now shivering thru, Salisbury
won't admit It. 11* Bays It Is a rec
ord.
And It'a not over
Kact Is, snow will likely hit the
city acaln Tuesday.
"Fair tonlghr," sa.va Salisbury,
"snow tomorrow."
The wind I* still from the North
west and blowing strong That
means continued cold.
DOG SHOULD WORRY
THE HAGUE, Jan. 17.—A
year'a atudy may be nsceasary
before the Ford peace program
can be submitted to the belliger
ents, members of the party re
maining for eatabllahment of a
permanent tribunal admitted
today.
It was reported that Rev.
Dr. Aked will receive 125,000
for abandoning his pulpit while
he la engaged in the tribunal
work.
vrieHqr
lIEDITION I.
LEND HAND IN
CAMPAIGN TO
GET SEATTLE
SQDARE DEAL
Important legal de*oloimrnt» in the fight taken up by The Star
for equal pateenger rule* from Chicago to the Pacific coaat took form
Monday
.Several leading huafneaa men'a organliatlona are preparing to flit
complaint*, aa Inter Tenor*. In the public aervlce commlaalon'a ca«e be
fore the Interotate commerce romnitailon
Negotiation* to that end were beirun Saturday, between rounael
representing vaiioua big commercial bodlee and Chairman C. A. Reyn
old!. of the atate public aervire coromlaalon.
Hollowing a abort oonaultatlon with Re rno Ida. Secretary Otto Case.
t»f tlte txrmwerrtel amiemnced tt*t tbe-chJb'a coobm! wonrf *sft
the flrat lnter»enor'a ault.
Representatives of the Antomobfle dub. the Hotel MetT* saaocla
tlon »n.l the steamlioat men's organlzatlon hava taken the matter up
with Reynolds and Intend filing itmilar suits In behalf of their lntar^
Mtt. ,
Will Charge Unjust Discrimination
Each ault will net forth that the organisation bringing the action
'* being unjuwly discriminated against by the Southern Pacific, Cnion
Pacific and Oregon-Washington Railroad £ Navigation Co., In the raat
ler of passenger rate* from Chicago to California and return.
The fight for fair paa*«Miger ratee to the Northweat «ai taken up
Monday In Spokane, Tacoma and Portland. Action by commercial
hodlea wan urged toward getting from the Interatate commerce com
mission a npeedy hearing
Chairman Keloid* aald Monday he was confident the case would
get an early hearing and haa already begun preparation of brief* to
: reaent to the Interatate commerce commission when the hearing la
railed.
Saturday he wrote a letter to Chairman Ooldamlth. of the trana
portation bureau of the Chamber of Commerce, urging the bureau to
lie an Intervener's complaint In behalf of the chamber and the larg*
interests It represents.
lie pointed out that every member of the chamber wa« vitally in
tereated In having the differential of »17.50 in aummer and $21.15 in
winter over the Southern route* »iped out
He showed that, owing to the differential, the chamber's member*
were losing thousands of dollar* annually because tourists avoid tha
Northweat for the reason that the Southern lines will not i<tree on a
similar round-trip rate with the Northern lines.
Can Present Case More Forcefully
Revnolds artted the bureau to designate an attorney to take the
matter up with him at once.
"Ity bringing these Interveners' aulta." Reynolds explained. "we
can preaent our case to the Interstate commerce commission more
forcefully than by any other means
• Kach organization, and each Individual of that organization. Is in
terested In having tourists come here Every business hou- , *e in Seat
tle and the Northweat In Interested from the standpoint of its pock—"
book.
"With equal round-trip rates from Chicago to San Francisco rm
Seattle, the Northweat would get Its Juat share of the tourist business.
"With a preferential of $17.50 In aummer In favor of the Southern
lines, we don't get that business, and never will. The tourist will take
the Southern routes, because he can ride over those Hues $17 30 cheap
er, and will leave Seattle off his Itinerary altogether."
Several Northwest problems are to be heard soon by the Internal*
commerce commission. It la expivtcd an examiner will be sent hera
shortly to take testimony for the commission.
Not later than -May. Chairman Reynolds said. he believed the dif
ferential rate cane will be ready for hearing.
At that time the public service commission and the various com
mercial organizations will present the case, each from it? own angle.
The case then will be argued before the Interstate commerce com
mission In Washington. D. (\
Sever Business Connections With O-W.
"The main proposition Is simple," said Chairman Goldsmith of
the Chamber of Commerce transportation bureau. "Any man who buys
a ticket at Chicago Is capable of giving testimony that the round-trip
rates to the Coast are discriminatory against the Northweet."
it became known Monday one of the biggest steamboat trnnporta
t'on men In the Northwest has severed connection with the Oregon
'Vashlngton Railroad & Navigation Co. until officials of that road agree
•c do all In their power to prevail upon their allied lines, the I'nlon and
Southern Pacific, to compromise with the Northern lines In the matter
Of passenger rates.
Another chipper, who was about to sign an agreement with the
0.-W. for delivery of 60 carloads of merchandise, has held up the deal
until he has had a consultation with officials of the road on the rate
ase.
It may tike years to carry the case thru the commission and the
courts Huslness men believe they themselves can obtain quicker relief
by bringing pressure on the 0.-W. It. N Co.
HOLD BROTHERS IN MURDER PLOT
CHICAGO. .'an IT- Charged
with plotting to murder their par
ents. Irving and Herbert I'pdlke
wwe held h,v the police today.
.■wording to the story the police
wrung from them, they intended
the murder* because thev believed
the father. Kantian D I'pdlke, mil
liona'ke. was about to change Ills
will A their detriment.
Tlii elder sou, Irving, 38, »•«
l ; said to have forced his 31-year-old
brother to join In hie plan.
The murders. It Is said, were to
''have been committed last night.
The younger sou is said to have
• agreed to plans to poison the par-
I onte. but Intended to thwart the
I elder brother.
From the younger man, the ptv
II lice got wind of the alleged plot.
The younger von is understood to
I be held merely as a witness.
