THE BARKE DAILY
TIMES'
VOL. XIX NO. 259.
MAHRK, VERMONT, MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
TURKS RETREAT
AS CZAR DRIVES
IN CAUCASUS
By
Their Own Admission,
They Have Withdrawn
Several Miles at Some
Points Along Line of Of
fensive, Which Is Said to
Be 100 Miles Long
GREAT MOVEMENT
STRONGLY PRESSED
The Operations Are Sai to
Be Increasing in Magni
tude Along a Policy Which
Has Long Been Expected
by Military Observers of
That Situation
Berlin, via wireless, Jan. 17. After
delaying a week the advance of strong
Russian forces in Caucasus, the Turks
have withdrawn their advance posts sev
eral miles at some points, according to
the Turkish official statement received
to-day from Constantinople.
BERGEN, NORWAY,
ONE-THIRD BURNED;
LOSS $15,000,000
In Worst Fire That Country Has Ever
Known, 2,000 Persons Were Made
Homeless and Two Are
Known to Be Dead.
Christiania, Norway, via London, Jan.
17. A third of the' city of Bergen, a
thriving Norwegian seaport with a pop
ulation of !0,000, was destroyed Satur
day night by Arc.
Two liven aro reported to have bn
lout and 2,000 persona are homeless. The
property damage is estimated at $!,-
000.000.
The conflagration is said to have been
the worst ever recorded in Norway. The
business section, with its old wholesale
houses, several of the largest of the ho
tels, a number of schools, the electric
plant and banks and newspaper buildings
was the part burned.
The dillieulties of the 2,000 persons
now without homes were increased by
tho fact that the largest storage houses,
filled with provisions for supplying the
surrounding country, were burned down.
It is harder to obtain groceries than at
any time since tho outbreak of the war.
Bergen never was so flourishing as at
the beginning of the present year, these
conditions being due largely to the in
creased merchant marine.
BATTERY WAS
NOT FAULTY
One Cause for Explosion on
Submarine E-2 Eliminated
COURT OF INQUIRY
CONTINUES WORK
Expert Says He Has Formed
Tentative Opinion of
the Cause
Bergen is one of the oldest and most
picturesque town in Norway, and it
ranks first of the Norwegian ship owning
centers. Through it passes a large, part
of the foreign trade of Norway. Fleets
of vessels bring the produce of the
northern fisheries to the seaport.
Bergen has repeatedly suffered from
fire, as in 1702 and 1855, and the broad
open spaces which interrupt the streets
are intended as a safeguard against the
spread of flames. Many of the. houses
still are timber built and painted white.
The Russian operations in the Cauca
sus are growing in magnitude and im
portance, according to official reports.
Following the Constantinople announce
ment that the Russian offensive along a
100-mile front south of Arasa has been
inaugurated comes further news that the
attack is being pressed. Military observ
ers have long expected important de
velopments in this region.
Big developments on the other fronts
are not reported. There is no indication
yet that the Teutonic allies are ready
for the expected drive on Saloniki. Rus
sia has again slackened her activities in
Bessarabia, but the Austrian pursuit of
the Montenegrins is being continued,
with the Montenegrins falling back to
ward Scutari. The Serbian government
has established headquarters at Brindisi,
Italy.
SPANISH STEAMER
BELGICA IS LOST
CHICOPEE HIGH SCHOOL
WHOLLY DESTROYED
About 600 Children Are Temporarily De
prived of School Facilities and Loss
Is Upwards of $250,000.
Chicopee, Mass., Jan. 17. The Chieo-
pee high school building was burned to
day with a loss of upwards of $250,000,
and 600 children are temporarily with
out school facilities. The cause of tho
fire haa not been determined.
BENNINGTON SCHOOL DAMAGED.
Twenty-Three Members of Her Crew Are
Reported Saved The Ship Was at
Heysham, England, Dec. 12.
London, Jan. 17. The Spanish steam
er !!elgica has been sunk. 'Twenty-three
members of the crew were saved. The
last record of the Belgica sinved her
arrival. at Heysham, England, Dec. 12,
WESTFIELD FACTORY
REOPENED TO-DAY
Over 100 Policemen Were Present and
No Disorder Was Reported Only
150 of 1,100 Workmen Resumed
Their Places.
Westfiehl, Mass., Jan. 17 Over 100
policemen were on guard to-day at the
reopening of the .Smith company s foun
dry, which was closed several days ago
on account of a strike. No disorder was
reported, and the police stated that 150
ot the 1,101) employes returned to work
Efforts are being made to reach a settlement.
250 FACTORIES
;-v CLOSED BY STRIKE
Garment Workers in Philadelphia Go Out
for Higher Wages and Improved
Working Conditions.
Philadelphia, Jan. 17. Two hundred
and fifty factories were closed to-day as
the result of a strike of G.000 garment
workers for higher wages and Improved
woiking conditions. Nearly all the strik
ers were women and children. The fac
tories were picketed.
New High School Structure Damaged
$10,000.
Bennington, Jan. 17. Fire which orig
inated from combustion of chemicals in
the laboratory on the second story ot
the high school building on Main street
last night caused a damage which will
doubtless run above 10,000. There is
an insurance of $00,000 on the building.
The damage is largely from water as
the firerneu were obliged to, flood the
structure.
The flames were discovered about 9
o'clock and the firemen quickly respond
ed. The fire had worked its way into
the partitions and it was over an hour
before the blaze was extinguished. Fire I
vails prevented the destruction of the
building.
The laboratory on the second floor is
located near the center of the build
ing and when the blaze was discovered
the flames had made considerable head
way. The building, a two story brick struc
ture, cost $90,000. It wag opened for
use in November, 19J4, and is said to
be one of the best equipped and most
modern structures for educational pur
poses in New England.
The board of education is expected to
close the school at once that repairs may
be started. This will probably neces
sitate the pupils making up the lost
time by attending sessions for a few
conference of Older Boys of Vermon
came to an end last night at the Con
mesrational church in the presence of an
weeks next summer during what would , audience of nearly 1,000 people, which
ni.rtua I lr Tin Itn l" (i (! 1 1 in Tin T 1 ( w I 1 . M . . . I A.. I .
New York, Jan. 17. The cause of the
explosion within the hull of the subma
rine E-2 in the New York navy- yard
Saturday, resulting in the killing of
four and the injuring of ten, was still
undetermined to-day. Tho board of in
vestigution continued its inquiry. Their
findings will be sent to Washington
without being published here. Three of
the injured uieu are in a serious condi
tion.
l!ear Admiral Usher made the follow
ing statement last night:
"The board of inquiry met to-day and
went aboard the submarine, where they
conducted a thorough investigation. The
investigation was not finished and there
fore the board will meet again to-morrow.
No conclusion was reached."
Nothing approximating an official
theory as tor the cause of the explosion
which resulted in the death of four
workmen and tho injury of ten others
was obtainable. The only light shed
upon the disaster was contained in the
statement of Miller Keese Hutchinson ;
who absolved from blame the Edison
battery designed to minimize the dun
ger to submarine crews resulting from
accumulations of jias. the E-2 was the
only boat thus far equipped with these
batteries, the tests of winch were re
ported to be thoroughly satisfactory.
"1 have made as complete an inspec
tion of the interior of the submarine E-2
as conditions will at present admit,'
said Mr. Hutchinson. "This inspection
was made as Mr. Edison a chief engineer
and personal representative. I have found
a tentative opinion, Una I have trans
mitted to the commandent of the New
York navy yard, under whose jurisdic
tion this boat was on January 10, 1910.
It is subject to revision when all the
facts are brought forth by the board of
inquiry which Admiral caber has or
dered.
"Having been present at the prelimi
nary inspection, I consider I am bound
by the same rules and regulations as is
a naval officer in matters of a confiden
tial nature, and must refer you to Ad
miral Usher for such information as he
may lie in position and inclined to give.
"As to the Edison battery, with all the
facts and conditions before me, I see no
reason to recommend to Mr. Edison any
changes or alterations in the theory, con
struction or method of installation of
the Edison submarine type storage bat
tery. The battery in the E-2 does not
appear to have been injured in the least."
PROMINENT LABOR WORKER.
James McLean. Corresponding Secretary
of Montpelier Branch, G. C. I. A.
After an illness of two years with tu
bercular trouble, having been confined to
the bed for six months, James McLean
a vice-president of the Montpelier Cen
tral Labor unloii, corresponding sccre
tary 'of the Montpelier branch of the
granite cutters' union and withal one of
the most earnest labor workers In cm
tral Vermont, died at 4 o'clock yesterday
afternoon at his home, 1(1 Sihlcy avenue,
Montpelier. Mr. McTean was many
timea a delegate to labor conventions
and although ill in bed at the time of
the conference of the Central Labor un
ion at Burlington last summer he made
the trip.
Mr. McLean was born in Aberdeen,
Scotland, July 8, 1872, and came to this
country in the '00a and worked at hia
trade for a few years before returning
to Scotland to accompany his family
across the water. He resided with his
family in Montpelier for 15 years. As
a granite cutter he was employed by va
rious firms in Montpelier, but was forced
to retire two years ago because of ill
health. He held a number of offices in
the Montpelier granite cutters' union,
the position of secretary having been his
for several years, lie was also a mem
ber of the Montpelier aerie of Eagles and
of the Bonaecord club of Harre.
lie is survived by his mother, Mrs.
Jane McLean, who reside in Scotland,
together with a sister and a brother in
Aberdeen and by two brothers, fleorgo
McLean of Harre and John McLean of
Ontario, Canada, and one sister, Mrs.
John MeWilliams. Hia w-ifc died eight
years ago the coming May, five children
surviving, Millieent, Allen, Mollic, Harry
and George. The funeral arrangements
have not been completed.
WAS NATIVE OF BARRE.
527 BOYS LINKED HANDS.
At Closing Session of the Older Boys'
Conference at Rutland.
Rutland, Jan. 17. With 527 delegate
from 75 towns standing linked hand by
hand in a great circle the sixth annual
t
Mrs. Mary (Parker) Hill Died in Mont
pelier Saturday Evening.
Mrs. Mary Jane Hill, widow of Jud
son T. Hill, whose death occurred five
years ago, passed away Saturday even
ing at the home
niece and a
avenue, Montpelier. Mrs. Hill suffered a
shock a week ago and aince that time
had failed to recover full consciousness.
KILLED MAN
BUT GOES FREE ,
PROMINENT MAN
IN GRANITE CIRCLES
AND EX-ALDERMAN
ames Adie, Member of Adie & Milne,
Passed Away Yesterday Afternoon
After a Long Illness.
Janus Adie, a well-known Harre gran
ite manufacturer, a former alderman and
at ono time a member of the license
board in this city, passed away at his
home, 57 Franklin street, Sunday after
noon at 4:30 o clock, the end following a
lingering illness. Mr. Adie is survived by
his wife, two daughters, Miss Ena Adie
IN SELF-DEFENSE of thig rity 4,1(1 Jlis8 R".th Alli" ot n","
HJII, .llttFn., BIHi IIIIC Willi, l ilun , "'"I
is a student at the University of Michi
gan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Mr. Adie, wa horn in New Aberdour.
Sebastian Had Told Pratt Gotland, June 13, ism. h came to
America around 30 years ago and settled
Francis Pratt, Derry, N. H.,
Shot Jesse Sebastian,
His Employe
CLAIMS HE FIRED
J. J. MURPHY
ON WAY HOME
Rutland's Wandering Bank
Official Is Headed
North
He Was Robbed of
Latter's $42.50
at once in Banc, where operations in the
graniU? belt were at that time beginning
to assume largo proportions. As a young
man, Mr. Adie worked for Marr &. t.for-
don. In 1892 he formed a partnership
for the manufacture of liarre irranite
Derrv, N. II., Jan. 17. Francis Pratt, with the late George Mitchell. Eight
a retired Boston merchant, notified the years later he associated himself with
police to-day that he shot and killed jameg S. Milne in the manufacturing
Jesse Sebastian, a negro employe, last business. The firm has its plant in the
night, claiming that he fired in self -ie- south end of the city. Mr. Adie a mar
fense, and he w as allowed hia freedom, mire to Miss Mary Gall of liOndon, Ont.,
Pratt said that the trouble resulted took place in Montreal March 13, 1893.
when the negro claimed he had been During the many years of his residence
robbed of money that Pratt gave him to in Barre, Mr. Adie was held in high
pay some bills. Pratt declared he shot esteem by his business associates, as well
when the negro was advancing on him as by others with whom he came into
with a bottle. I contact in -various circles. Uwin the
Sebastian was foreman for Pratt. He death of Alderman Hugh Duffy in Au-
and Sam Johnson, also colored and an gust, 1904, Mayor Barclay appointed Mr.
employe of Dr. Harry A. Tuttle, were in I Adie to serve the unexpired term of the
Uerry Saturday evening, and they re- ward six representative in the city eoun-
ported that when they started for home cil. In the next spring, Mr. Adie was
they were held up by four men, one of I returned to his seat in the council by a
whom sprang from the roadside and I handsome maiontv, serving through
grabbed the horse bv the head, while the 1 190(1. For two years, while the city was
other three covered Sebastian and John-! under the license regime, he served with
son with guns. The victims claimed the I credit as a member of the license board.
robbers took $-12.50 from Sebastian and He was honored alike in fraternal and
whatever Johnson had, the amount not business circles. In 1S97 he was ele
being stated. The matter was reported vated to the leadership of Clan Gordon,
HE LEFT HIS HOME
ON NOVEMBER 26
He Says That He Remem
bers Little' Until He Ar
rived in New Orlea-
i ,- a.
7m nf v r M lfil I W to thp PoHce- but Sebastian and Johnson No. 12, O. S. C and some years later he
dopted daughter 29 First eou,d 8ive no de8cril,tion of the four WB elected president of the Barre Gran
r.oi; mr iini'...irni i men' I Manufacturers' association, an office
AIMED GUN AT POLICE.
which he held for three years. He was a
member of Granite lodge, No. 35, F. and
A. M.t and Ruth Chapter, O. E. S., and
Augusta, Ga Jan. 17 i J. Mur
phy, former treasurer Jie Marble
(Savings bank and the v .nd Hotel as
sociation, who disH ,d Nov. 28, is
on his way to Ver...s to-day. Ho ex
plained that he had suffered a nervous
breakdown and wandered south without
advising anybody. He had been under
treatment here for the past three weeks.
Murphy said ho remembered little till
he arrived in New Orleans in Deeemlier.
He wrote his Rutland friends that men
tal fatigue, resulting from overwork,
caused his sudden departure from home.
TENEMENT HOUSES
INCREASED BY 19
There Was a Slight Gain in This Class
of Building Operations in Barre
During 1915 Four Stonesheds
Also Were Built.
07 llir 1 lW,?ui? ,?f Mr Za i Charles Sargent of Rutland Was Then had long been a member of Clan Gordon.
27, 1835, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. p- ded to Put rt Down We was also a member of the Barre
enry Parker, and attended school n Persuaded to Put It Down. ConrPKatiomiI onun.h.
thw place. She was married to Mr. Hill
Kutland, Jan. li. Armed witn a mgu yunPri services will be held at the
in p-iim-re loot, ..u ...c.v ,.u- powered rifle Which he aimed at Umeers Jmnse WedncadnV afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Martin rvcnneay ami i nomas -u- RPV. J. W. Barnett, pastor of tl
d until a few years ago on a farm
Li,., -Hi,- ii;ii ...... ....i. f f ... . i. ... , , " -. r-""i v,i...K.v
::i ' worm, mreaiemng to mow tneir neaus ational church, officiating. Intcrmen
Elmore Methodist church. , I off if they entered the room over which fvill bo. made in Hope cemetery. It i
cm leaves uruue. y e auop e "ing - nic was standing guard. Charles Sargent, requested that flowers be omitted,
r, two other daughters, Mrs. H. B. son of the former proprifrtor of the 1
tcr,
Hancock of Randolph and Mrs. Mary I American house on Hales street, kent
.leronimie of Calais. A son died in in- the officers at bay for several minutes
luni-jr anu nuiiiw uiiijuht (mracu SitnrdT niaht while they were at
nine years ago. temptinir to arrest the man for threat
Mrs. Hill was the youngest of a family -nin th life of m. Xancv Uaird
in nine numr mm m.u iii 1 x0yes. Sargent finally put the gun in
away. A brother, Judson Parker, died in L gn(J ag he Btriightened up both
' . .:. p ' . . . . policemen iumned on his back, overpow
iiie iunerai win im; neia luesuay an- - : lim-i Bf,or hrA ,tn.le
ernoon at 2 o'clock at the house, with i0,.i i m;i
Hev. William Shaw officiating. Inter-1 H..t..,fri ;thm.t f r l.ml
ment will be in Green Mount cemetery. U t . WM removed to ft cp! in tllJ
police station where he remained all
MRS. WILLIAM M. SMITH.
WAS BORN IN SCOTLAND.
Norman McAuley, Resident of Williams-
town, Died To-day.
Norman McAulay, a prominent resi
dent of YTilliamstown, died at bis home
near that Village this morning at 7:30
o'clock, the end following an illness of
nearly tw-o years duration. He w sur
vived bv his wife and three sons, Daniel
McAulay of Websterville, Malcolm Mc
Aulay of Groton and Murdo McAulay of
night. YeBterday morning he asked tde YVjlliamBtown. There are also left three
otlieers what he had been doing. The daughters. Mrs. Norman McLeod of
Passed Away Sunday at the Age of 25 matter was reported to State's Attorney Graniteville, Mrs. I). J. Murray of Gran
Y.,. C v- Poulin Saturday night and he at itcville and Mrs. Annie MeLeod of Wil-
once went to work on the case, getting I Hamstow n. A sister, Mrs. William Me-
.urs. -Margaret muiid, za, wne oi vwi- la signed statement from sirs. oyes. Aula v. resides in Graniteville. and a
linm iL Smith of 1 First street, passed The officers removed, the erun from hrother. Anirii McAiilav is a resident
away at the City spitalSunday fore- Noyes' house, No. 2 Edson street, where of Bury, P. Q. Eight grandchildren also
noon at iiiiuociock. airs. jMimn leaves line anair toon place, to tne ponce st-1 survive
her husfcand and three children, Bella, tion where in the presence of several
aged 8, William, aged 4, and Viola, aged witnesses the gun was relieved of 10
years.
Misses
' r- - ' - i r - I ' - -
s. Five sisters surviving are: loaded, 25 special shells.
Mary, Viola, Rose, Elsie and I
Mr. McAulay was born in Lewis, Scot
land, 7U years ago and came to America
at the age of 10. For 26 vears he was a
Agnes Wood of Barre. There are also SPIRITUALISTS' OFFICERS.
four brothers, James Wood of Montpel
ler, ilham ood of Harre, Albert C. H. Ingalls of Montpelier Was Elected
OUT OF BASEBALL FOR GOOD.
. HAD TRIED SUICIDE.
But Police Came Before Gas Took AI
t leged Murderer.
Haverhill, Mass., Jan. 17. A man
found unconscious in a gas-tilled room
in a hotel yesterday w identified as
Jules Suitdus a griH-er of BrocktMi,
wanted by the Lawrence poIh on a
charge of murder. The man was sent
to a hospital under guard to await the
an-ival oi officer from Lawrence. His
condition is not considered serious.
Stiitdii is alleged to have shot and
killed hi year old baby and to haTe
m minded his wife seriously in Ijiwrence
Saturday night, after he had tried nn-eiiD-o-of
ully to induce the woman, who
had Ix-en separated from him. to return
lorn.-. After the shooting Suitdus fled
to tliis titv.
SECRET REPORT TO POPE.
Ray Collins of Red Sox Says He Is Defi
nitely Decided.
Rutland, Jan. 17. Bay W. Collins of
Colchester, for the last six years a first
string pitcher of the Boston Red Sox,
will never again don a uniform for Bos
ton or any other club. He made that
positive declaration here yesterday aft
ernoon. He said that this decision was
final and although he has not yet derid
ed on just what he will do in the future,
he intimated that he would devote his
entire time to the management of his
property in Colchester, which includes a
valuable farm.
Collins would not say just what con
sideration led him to this decision but
be declared that no specific dissatisfac
tion with his berth with the Boston club
was the cause. He said he had been
tendered a contract for 101(1 by IVesident
Lannin and that the terms named there
in were satisfactory.
The big southpaw returned to his home
last night after having been for three
days in attendance at the sessions of the
boys' conference, in which he is greatly
interested.
ft has been reported from Boston that
Collins was among the several hijh sal
aried Red Sox players who would have
to stand for a sizeable reduction in sal
ary this year in line w ith a general jiol-
ley of retrenchment following the con
clusion of the war twtween the Federal
league and organized base hull and that
the Vernionter did not relish a reduction
of wages.
The former University of Vermont
man had the poorest year of bis career
last seaton and rumors have rx-en rife
that Manager Carrigan intended to trade
him to anme other rlnh. believing that
be had outlived his ii-fulne in the Huh.
Some of hi local friends believe that
Collins' deciiin to retire is the result of
filled every seat and left numbers stand
ing
The following committee who will
serve lor tne ensuing year were named
Resolutions, Waldo A. Becker of Troy
Conference academy, Dean E. Logan of
Ludlow, Lorimer II. Brown of Burr and
Burton seminary); Elisha W. Culver of
Saxtons Kiver and Jesse H. Harrington
of Arlington; credentials, Walter A. Jef
fery of Chester, Merill D. Barret of the
ermont state school of agriculture.
Clarence E. Wright of Westminster, Ro
land F. Nye of Woodstock and William
H. Farwell of Montpelier.
The following oflicers were elected
George P. Pease of Rutland, president;
buell , JWaxlicld ot Jturlin&ton, vice
president; 1). Wiunifred Smith of l!arr'
secretary; Eugene F.- Royee of Middle-
burv, assistant secretary.
The address which was to have beea
delivered by Dr. John M. Thomas, pres
ident of Sliddlcbury college on Sunday,
was changed to one ly hraiiklm K. Mat
thewi of New York as Mr. Thomas was
conlined to his home by illness.
The boys attended the three sessions
Saturday with a regularity that showed
earnestness of purjnjse. The speakers
couched their remarks in language the
youths could understand. How-cry ora
tory was lacking. 1 lie men talked in ac
cordance with the big brother style and
this Bi-cmcd to make a decid-d hit with
the boys.
Lynn and Earle Colhy of Wilmington,
brothers, walked from their home to Rut
land to attend the conference, a dis
tance of tat miles hy the route they
took. Leaving Thursday morninij at 3
o'chx-k they walked until neven at niaht.
the first day out, reaching East lKirset,
This trip required a climb of the Green
mountains and put them 54 miles away
frra home. Friday they walked to Rut
land in the face of a biting north gale
and tero tern p.-rat lire.
ASSIGNED TO PARISHES.
a 1rtrm in t ion i f m4 a 11 t anir.
hv Carrisran to railroad him 5ni ,! Priests Who Were Ordained in December
other Ie congenial American
berth or into the minors.
Cardinal Merrier, Belgian Primate, Gives
No Inkling of Contents.
Hume, .ln. 17. Cardinal Merrier, the
IVlnian primate, maintain the tri"t
pl r-erve regarding the paper be de
! n'd t the fx-f-e at a private audience.
It i ri-j-rted that the d.-iiment enn-
ta'iie,) a careful survey ( tsi i.reer-t i iter
KAISER GOES TO FRONT.
i- !
!i?-"i-d irero'ac irbf rilie.
Rev. Thomas McCarthy to Montpelier.
BurlincUm. Jan. 17. The lit. Iv. J.
J. lin ha aind the priet w U. were
ordained Ilei-einlier IS ti the following
I. Said to Have Completely Recovered j Klrr. thir,, ..MM.n'i ,t t'hf
from Illness. 1 homa !.arthy, aM-tnt at St.
Berlin, via London. Jan. 17. The fol- I Anrutine" chnrth. "M.mtr- her: Rer.
jtnvinz official eommnnication was iuej j rUiarJ 1. !l..r l. M-tnt at U
iyeterdT: . Peter' church. Rutland. Rev. W.J. :r.
complete rw.err. Kmpernr , mnd. who a ti.e a-it.r.t at M
t i,ren -'t'iMM
Wood of Philadelphia, and John Wood I
of Charleston. S. C. Mrs. Smith's fa
ther, Adam Wood, is a resident Of Barre.
President.
The three days" conference of the Ver
The deceased was born Margaret Wood mont SPirit"8li,,t a880riation eml1 with.
in liarre iec. uu, ihuu, nut untcii ot tier , 1 r
earlier life ns in A'm-rhfieM evening in the hall of Brooks post, G.
f nt;,i .a ;n i A. R.. in Montpelier. The officers elected
received with sorrow bv a We number "roay aiternoon were aa louows
f ,,;.,,... ki, ... rresiuent, II. nivalis, .Moniiieiicr; vn-r
of the Conererational church. Her mar- presidents, I. W. Hatch, Burlington, H.
. IT XI..1Un.rl 1" k'n,.h orva
r aire to Mr. Sm th took p ace in 19(17. '. J """ ". "
I 1 I. Km Ih f A hanB
, mi. in. .. ,.. i.viu e ."CI. - ,c. .1
T. f., ii, ireasurer, iurs. i.nen ru, iwn-; au
Rev. J. W. Barnett of the Congregational fito,r'. ,L TV' iH,Bltoh;' fdT ,' ITTO
,.i, ,,h , :n u.. i.. ,.n;..ia;nn ..I..; ,in 1 1 reu ai. iiuiu, u hiihiiciii, o. u. oihihi, ot,
v"u"" " ' Albans, Mrs. Lettie Griffith, Barre. Frank
Karle, Cuttingsville, E. J. Fallon, Mont
MRS. MARTHA PARK pelier.
. .. i j I. me rriiiiiK o,-nini, ti. ti. vA'irim-
Died To-dav at the Home f Her Danch. and Mrs. Annie R. Chapman siioke and
---- o- I - -
ter in Montnclier. Eftve messages
SEEKS RELEASE FROM ASYLUM.
Mrs. Martha Park died at the home of
her daughter, Mrs. Gertrude M. Berry,
0 IxHJtnis street, Montpelier, at 5 o'clock Charles H. Thompson Brings Case into
hub iiiuriiinK iiT a long uiness. i ne i County Court
funeral will be held Wednesday after-1
noon at 2 o'clock from the home of Mrs.l A hearing was held at 2 this after
Berry, Rev. Stanley F. Riomticld offlciat- noon, when Washington county court re-
ing. It is requested that flowers be convened alter me weeK-etm recess, on
omitted. the matter of a petition brought to re-
Mrs. Park was born in Greensboro 'case Charles H. Thompson from the
Am.'. 3. 1842. the daughter of Samuel state hospital for the insane, where he
and Mannda Baker. She was married n" Defn connnea sine.? iWj. inompson,
on March I. lSC.i' to William Warren wnose Home is in MaterDury, was con
Baker of Montpelier, 'and they took up victed of an offense in county court but
t ieir resilience in that, r, nee Afr Tinker " naicinuir uniuw ui insan
conducting a grocery store until be died
in lH'.MI. Mr. Park leaves three daugh
ters, Mr. Berry, Mrs. C. F. Lowe and
Mrs. C E. Kingsbury, and one son, Harry
. 1'ark. all of .Montpelier; also eiirht
grandchildren.
afr. It is now claimed that he is men
tally sound. State'a Attorney Fred E.
Glcaon appeared for the state.
Following the heart, the divorce ease
of Israel Schwartz against Nellie
Schwarta was taken up, the case being
contested.
The contested divorce suit of Dr. A. C.
Foster vs.. Helen Foster was concluded
Saturday, after Rev. E. K. Treat of Pitta-
Louis Cote Violated Conditions of Hit ford had testified to the good character
Probation.
Che!ca. Jun. 17. Sheriff A. A. Reed
wa in town Saturday while on his way
TAKEN BACK TO PRISON.
horn.- from Boston, where be went
hursday to cocort Ixmia Cote from that
city to Windsor, where be committed
im to state prison. Cote was convicted
f the crime of larceny at the Decemlier
erin of (ranpc county court in H'14 and
sentenced to frtate prison for a term of
not ! than one year and not more
ban one year and six months, and in
Moher last, he was era u ted a condi
tional pardon by ov. Lutes and placed
in the hand of the probation officer
of Orange count r. He harms violated
of Mrs Foster.
.Joseph Canales of Montpelier waa ar
raigned this afternoon on an information
filed by the state's attorney and charg
ing him wjtn obtaining money tinder
fal- pretence. He pleaded not cuilty
and was placed under hail, diaries K.
Roger of labot pleaded guilty to an
information charging a statutory of
fense and will be sentenced later.
resident of Graniteville, where he was
employed as a quarryman and for the
past 15 years he had made his home in
Williamstown. His marriage to Mrs.
McAulay took place 50 years ago last
February. He was highly esteemed by a
large number of friends and his death,
although not unexpected, has brought
sorrow to many people in Williamstown
and Barre Town.
Funeral services will be held at the
house Tuesday afternoon at 1 o'clock
Rev. Fred McNeil, pastor of the Gran
iteville Presbyterian church, will be the
officiating clergyman and interment will
he. made in the Wilson cemetery at
South Barre.
WAS ILL ABOUT A WEES.
Mrs. Ermalinda Chioldi Died at 21 West
Street This Morning.
The death of Mrs. Ermalinda Chioldi.
wife of Antonio Chioldi, a member of
the granite manufacturing firm of Chiol
di Brothers, occurred at her home, 21
West street, this morning af 3:13 o'clock.
Mrs. Chioldi had been ill for nearly a
week, death being due to an intestinal
disorder. Besides her husband, she is
survived by two daughters, Misses Mary
and Reina Chioldi. and one son, Abranio
Chioldi. With her husband she had resid
ed for some years in the same house
with the former's brother, M. Chioldi and
wife.
Mrs. Chioldi was born Ermalinda Berte
in Casola, province of Parma, Italy, on
April 13, 1884. and her niarriage to Mr.
Chioldi took place in' Montpelier 11 year
ago. I w o protuers, josepn nerte ami
Ilino Berte, who accompanied their sis-
er to America several year ago. now
reside in Barre. The funeral arrange
ments have not been made, although it
s probable that obsequies will be held
in St. Monica's church Wednesday with
interment in the Catholic cemetery on
Berkley street. I
Building operations in Barre during
the twelve-month ending Dec. 31, 1915,
aggregated $lli,70fl, according to the an
nual report of Inspector George M. Rand,
which is to be presented to the city coun
cil to-morrow evening for printing in the
city report. The total for last year is
considerably less than the building outlay
in 1914, owing chiefly to the fact that
the new hotel, the hospital and the
Spaulding school annex, building projects
that represented an aggregate expendi
ture of nearly $250,000, were reckoned
in the previous year's report, although
not completed until 1015. Aside from
this budget, however, 1915 was a bigger
year in the building lino in liarre than
its predecessor.
Among the larger items, noted in the
inspector's rcjwirtare: New dwellings
one-tenement, 12; two-tenement, ft; four
tenement, 1; a total of- 19, which repre
sents a healthy increase over the 1914
record. Others among the 538 permits
granted were: Stonesheds 4, barns 10,
garage 9, storehouses 4, offices 2, piazzas
24, additions 64, grandstand 1, henhouses
4ti, stores 2, rollways 3. Sixty-six build
ings were reshingled and (i2 structures of
varying types were remodeled. Fourteen
buildings were razed and, one permit was
granted to raise a building. Two per
mits were refused and one was held over.
Ward five continues to hold its place as
a leader among the wards in building
enterprises, with 129 applications for
building permits. The other wards wero
as follows: Ward one 77, ward two 82,
ward three 79, ward four 95, ward six 76.
Appended to the inspector's report was
the following table of estimated valua
tions: Dwellings, 940,450; stonesheds,
$25,725; barns. $1,955; garages, $1,125;
storehouses, $285; coalsheds, $500; surface-cutting
sheds, $100; henhouses, $800;
piazzas, $3,371 ; wagon sheds, $590; wood
sheds, $000; additions, $11,435; remodel
ing, $22,450; tool-sharpening buildings,
$1,000; grandstand, $50; offices, $2,000;
repairs, $2,770; stores, $1,500; total,
$116,700.
CAYIA HENRY.
Wedding Took Place To-day at St. Mon
ica's Church.
Miss Nettie Mary Henry, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Willis Henry of South
Barfe, and Henry Arthur Cayia, son of
Mr. and Mrs. John Cavia of 111 Brook
lyn street, were married at St. Monica 'a
church this morning at, 7:30 o'clock. Rev.
P. M. McKenna. the parish priest, offi- '
ciated at the nuptial mass, the musical
accompaniments being contributed by the
regular choir of St. Monica's. The bride.
was attended hy Miss Gertrude (.a via, a
sister of the groom, and Mr. Cayia'a
brother, Albert Cavia, acted as best man.
The bride wore a green traveling suit.
(inly near relatives and intimate friends
of the bride and groom attended the wed
ding. After the ceremony the couple,
went immediately to the home of the
bride's parents, where a wedding break
fast was served, followed by an informal
reception.
Both the bride and groom are welli
and favorably known in Barre. Mr. Cayia
has been employed for several years m
the mechanical department of The Times.
They will be at home to their friends at
10 Spaulding .street after Jan. 24.
MORMON CONFERENCE HELD.
Two of tbe More Prominent Members of
the Church Were Present.
PNEUMONIA TOOK GIRL.
FATALITY IN CHURCH FIGHT.
Lucy CerasoU Was Only Daughter cf
Mr. and Mrs. Ercole Cerasola.
Mis Lucy Cera ola, aged 13. the only
aughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ercole Cera
sola. died at Iter nome. .12 roier street.
Sunday morning at 3 o'clmk. the end
following week's illness .f pneumonia.
The little (fir! i survived hy her par
ent and four hmflier. F.rroando. Erode.
John and Rinahlo (crawl. The de
ceased wa born in Barre Jan. 29, l'.X
She attended the public schiHils and ju-t
prior to her illne he wa enrolled a
student III me l.rrk. iri s. im.l.
i-on li.'.im 111 Be j.'i"m and of tfe al-vVi'!im r. turned iitw1t aiirmxin ia ter" church
fe w..r theatre."
itart t R. v. J. P. ILjoI tit I rtttleh..! . and tkn inta cuM'wIr
And &tate Troops Had to Be Called to
Quiet the Rioters.
Scranton, Pa.. Jaiv. 17. Kiotine which
the term of hi pnlti"n. complaint j liroke out between rival faction at the I she wa a cirl of very loiatde trait, and
w made to t.atr who tucd hi;tTiirch of the SarreJ Heart of Jeu in j er death ha brought sorrow- to many
warrant for hi arret and recommit-j I hipont. near here yesterday, resulted in acquaintance, old and young,
ment to Mate prison and through the , the death of one man, the prohahle fatal Kimeral servi.-e will he held in St.
vanoti avenue "f.r keeping an eye on (injury of two oth.-v and the terioii in- Monica's church Tuc.!ay aftirnom at
tie member of Cieir family" tht the 'jury of at eat a doren more. Knive. j 1 -.Tu o'clok. The i.rfh rn-t. Fc.
st. I'c j pronation o.T.cer he at their tipnal. ' revolver and cbih p Invert a prominent V. M. M Henna, will o'lxiate. and inter-
a-'Mr. t ..te run down on Snt 1 d ice j pe rt in t'e rk-t. II tat tr.wi.er b,-irg ment will l- made in the Catholic cni-
mong the itncd-
cterv oa H-cileT afreet.
Mormon of Vermont and New Hamp
shire met in Foresters' hall in the Worth
en bliK;k yesterday for one of their peri
odic conferences, interest to the gather
ing of the Ijttti-r Day Saint having been
augmented by the aninuni-:ncnt that
two of the more illustrious father of
the church would be prcoetit to apeak.
Afternoon and evening incrtiuj: served
to attract considerable gathci ins of
Mormon church member in Barre. a
well a thoe without the fold, who ar
known to the faithful a Gent ilea. Mm -
mon elder from other loan in Vermont
and the neighboring Mate aero- the
I onnoet icnt were .rccnt. and a very
Mic-ensf 11I conference i reported.
The print ipal speaker were I.ldcr
ia:ne H. Talmap" of Salt Ijike C ity,
I'tah. a member ,.t the council of twclie.
nd Elder Walter P. Munxon of
imk City, who i known a the pri
dent of the ea!km state Mormon nn
fon. l' tir:g c Si, -Id at 2 o' lock f
the afternoon and at o'c.k lal
ti'p'it. Iocal arranv-ernctt f.r tl-e t-n
fcrcnee were in !r .f IYei.jent Rob
ert Si-limni and I lier taillc lla.'iii ff
the Barre im-twn.
i
A.
