'
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
.. .
Sfc ic sjc
;
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
fty
TniRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS riv
WAT I II II ir . W 1 1 II It II .II II li . Brft &fi JilM M itin inHiTit'lII-Il II ' i It I II II 1 1 11 II ... II II 11.81. II
MANY .! LLISTA LEADERS
SHOT1 1Y CARR ANZISTAS
Several Generals Have Already Faced Firing Squad, Including
Rivas, Almeida, Rouriguez Valles and Cisneros Body
of Rouriguez Exhibited In Market Place at Juarez As
Evidence That Bandits Will Be Summarily Punished
Prompt Action of Carranza Tends to Allay Feeling
El Paso, Texas, Jan. 17 The Mexican de facto govern
ment today gave grim evidence of its intention to punish
all bandits, including the Santa Ysabel marauders who
last week slew 18 Americans.
The evidence was the distorted corpse of General
Rouriguez. The body of the Villista chieftain, shot down
by a Carranzista firing squad, was exhibited in the yard
of the Juarez customs house, across the border from here.
On it was a placard announcing that the enemies of the
de facto government would meet a like fate.
This fate has already been meted out to several of
Villa's leaders. Generals Rivas and Almeida were slain
at Madera, with Rouriguez, while at Casas Grandes
General Manuel Valles, Villa's official executioner, Gen
eral Enrigue Cisneros and eight followers were lined up
before a rifle squad and shot.
Three refugee trains are heading for the border to
day, heavily guarded by Carranza soldiers. British sub
jects are quitting northern Mexico, along with Americans,
as they have been warned so to do by British Ambassador
Sir Cecil Spring-Rice at Washington.
Bitterness over the Sana Ysabel massacre continues
here unabated. Thousands attended the funerals of Wat
son and McHatton, two of the victims. American soldiers
stood at salute as Watson's young son, dressed in the uni
form of a military school attended.
'American soldiers' sympathy with the agitation for in
tervention was shown in rioting Saturday night at Fort
Hancock. Afer a number of Mexicans were "cleaned
out," however, the trouble subsided.
Washington, .Tun. 17. Feeling over
llm Hiiura Yfnbi'l massacres of eighteen
Americans Inst week was allayed today
liv tiie tone of (loneral CnrranM's as
surances to Consul Hilliiwiu placing tlie
murderers "outside the pnlo or the
law." This decree, pronii.iiig sharp
action, practically authorizes anyone to
idioot down tho bandits at sight.
At the saino lime, C.irrnnzn's appeal
for consideration of the difficulty con
fronting him in controlling the bandit,
found sympathetic response In official
circles. ' T.iis plvn is expected to gain
wipport for the administration ia its
course of giving Currnnzn a chance to
demonstrate his power to pnnbh mar
fniders .uul to prevent future massa
cres. Neither the senate nor house foreign
committee will lake up Mexican reso
lutions, many of which, directly pro
pose intervention, until late this week.
I in Wednesday, the sennto hopes to
consider the nomination of Henry t
Fletcher as nmln?.-ndor to Mexico. Thisj
i:inv be the signal for some anti-admin-
i:.tr.ition speeches, but administration
Howlers look for speedy action never
tnelcss, The state department plain
then to reply to .Senator Tails re-wln-lions
asking for the .administration 's
rr-nsons for recognizing I'ariuira.
Refugee.! At Monteroy.
Washington, .Ian. I" .V special tr.iinj
riming (Hi Americans' mid foreigners,
connected with the l'onoiua Miningl
company at Mc.pini arrived nt Mentor
ev, Consul llniina today wired the state
department. A number of Americans
f rom Tnlhu:ilil hnve reached I.er.lo and
ll'orreon. At the latter place, the Car
ninzisln garrison has been re-enforced.
Doubt as to the safety of Vice Con-
K Abe Martin
ttev. Wiley Tnnger wtif struck by
ft light ear 0' pop'lar brand yister
day. Kothin' but ft big dinner'll git
a:nio families t get her.
sol Coon of PurnnRO was removed by
receipt of v message from him saying
that F. O. Kmorson,"for whom the de
partment was inquiring, is safe.
Consul Edward's Statement.
Washington, Jan. 17. Consul Ed
wards at Juarez sent a message to tin-
state department today saying ho ii.ul
asked tho Cnrrnnzista authorities for
nrntect.Inn nf Americans in the ''Cusi''
mining district. Secretary of State
Lansing domed Hint lie Imd given lui
wards .in order to tako this action.
iuhvnrds said he had told newspaper
men that ho hnd obtained Carranza
guarantees of protection for Ameiicnns
January II, after the Washington gov
ernment ordered him to.
Kramer Family Safe.
Kl I'nso, Texas, Jan, J". A party of
four has left Chihuahua City to rescue
the Kiainer family at Maderi, who are
now reported mile, though peisistent
rumors lust week said one or more of
them had been slain by bandits.
Consul Confirms Report,
Washington, Jan. 17. Collector of
Customs Znck Cobb, of Kl I'nso, wired
advices to the state department indi
cating that Bert Kramer, reported mas
sacred in iMndero, Mexico, is alive.
May Settle Question of
Interference With Trade
Washington, J .in. 17. Kngland ami
the I'nited States are prperiied to join
issue over British Interference with
American trade. Agitation in Loudon
for an actual "nir tight" blockade in
stead of tho "paper blockado" created
by the oider in comic il promises to
bring the dispute to n held. The state
department said tdony that nn actual
blockade would largely remove on.lee-
! Iium' ii i ,tn in llm lutit mid fill inl ni-l'iip-
PI '
euce, but the administration has con-
ui ill mil k' i-nf Hum) tn miilit dm nt-iliir III
council lis creating A legal blockade.
11 hnglitml lulled to enforce un ec
hini blfickhile with sufficient ship to
niuke it "nir tight" however, shippers
would still maintain their right to sell
to Germany.
Board to Investigate
Submarine Explosion
Washington, Jan. 17. Secretary of
the Xnvv Daniels announced tod.iy he
will appoint a board of the ablest na
val experts to Investigate the whole
submarine question after the probe In
to the K-tt disaster nt lirooklyn is com
pleted, lie declared the K-2 explosion
Is a "tremendous argument" in f.ivor
of the suggested nnvul laboratory for
which he lias asked Congress to ap
propriate 1)1,000,000.
Jmiii for general equipment of sub
marines with the new Kdison batteries
have been halted. Officials s.iid that
further experiments with them (will
be mado beforo actual trials on vessels,
Press and Public Alike Are
Not Satisfied With Results
Accomplished
(By United States.)
London, Jan. C (By mail.) llritish
press and Britis'i public are saying un
complimentary things iust now about
British diplomacy. F.icotious remarks
about American diplomacy, which from
the earliest days of the dollnr brand
down to those of the W. J. Bryan grape
Juice variety were won't to filter!
through the British press, have given
placo to others which strike closer
home. Kngland holds Knglish diplomacy
responsible for tho situation in the
Balk.ins. English diplomacy, it is
charged, should havo won the support
of both Turkey and Bulgaria, or at
least, kept them neutral; while Greece
should now bo an open ally. Having
failed in all this, British diplomacy is
in for a bitter scathing, (ierm.in di
plomacy is admitted by some to have
bested Knglish, notably in the case of
Tnrkey. 1'or years Kngland had weild
ed great influence at the Hublinio
Porte. Yet it permitted the Germans
to gradually gain the ascendency and
at the Inst moment, when n proper dip
lomatic effort on tho part of Kngland
could still havo prevented, allowed
Germany tho victory. This is only half
the chnrge. Then, .is a result of this
initial blunder, tiio question of a cam
paign against tho Dardanelles was
broached, it was again to tho Foreign
Office and its diplomatic service that
the nation turned for guidance. Down
ing street is said to have been little
informed on the subject. The Dar
danelles blunder was committed. Open
charges havo been made that at the
moment tho supremo struggle was on at
Constantinople to win or restrain the
Turk, Kngland had in its embassy
there .in ambassador and throe secre
taries not a ono of whom knew Turk
ish, Turk or Turkey. It is said tho em
bassy had had ft chief interpreter, who
did know Turkish and tho Turk. Mr.
Kitzmnurieo know so much that he ac
quired the sobriquet of "The Man Who
Knows." When ho was on vacation,
the Turkish .Minister., at London re
quested the Foreign Offico not to let
him returs. Tho foreign olf ico consent
ed. In Bulgari.i tho situation has been
considered even worse. October 1, the
day Bulgaria- mobilised, Sir Udward
tlrev nrosn in parliament to say that
while so far as he knew Bulgaria had
no hostile intentions, still if she did
have, Kngland would bo forced to Act.
During tho first 1-1 months Knglish
and (I cumin diplomats had labored at
Sofia to win the support of Bulgaria.
At the end of that tuna Knglnnd's for
eign ofl'ice did not show that it knew
Bulgaria was tied hind and foot to
Germany. Tho Knglish press has just
pointed out that whilo C.nr Ferdinand
was prosecuting supposedly sincere ne
gotiations with the J: n t t o lie must
have been laughing up his sleeve nt
Knglnnd's simplicity.
Two months before tho Bulgarian
mobilization Kngl.ind changed minis
ters nt Kofin. Tho ono recalled was
Sir Max Ironsides.
Also exasperating to English public
opinion just now is tho failure of its
diplomacy to secure more of Greece
than "benevolent neutrality."
The murder of Americans in Mexico
stirs some people's ire to the point of
wanting snmebodv else to iro down
there and inflict adequate puuishi.-.ent.
U. S. CHAMBER OF COMMERCE FORECASTS BUSINESS CONDITIONS; -FINDS
PROSPECT FOR 1916 AT LEAST FAIR THROUGHOUT NATION
V. S. Chamber .of
Tho U. S. Chamber of Commerce his
just sent out from its Washington
headquarters tins map, Riving fore
cast of business conditions la the Uni
ted States during the first four months
of 1910. The may was made after an
mere in 1 conditions by the eipertl of
the cbimbcr.
IT
asks an n
ME in IMS
, , ,! m
irusnea, croKen ana nope
less King Peter Surrenders
Unconditionally
LITTLE ARMY OF 50,000
FIGHTS DESPERATELY
With No Help In Sisht From
the Allies Resistance
Becomes Hopeless
Berlin, Jan. 17. Making tho first
break in tho ranks of the allies, Mon
tenegro has asked her enemy Austria
for pence.
Crushed and broken and threatened
by comploto destruction bofore the
hordes of Austria ns overrunning her,
tho country has surrendered completely.
Announcement of Montenegro's re
quest for peaeo came today from Coun?
Tis'za beforo the Hungarian parliament.
"Farlinmcnt had, just finished the
first order . of business when Count
Tiszn asked permission to interrupt,"
said the dispatch detailing the peace
news. "Ho informed parliament that
the Montenegrin king and parliament
had asked for Inauguration of peace
negotiations. '
Tisza said that Austria domanded
that Montenegro lay down her armB
unconditionally and that King Nicholas
had acceded to this proposal'. Negotia
tions, he added, will begin immediately.
rarliament burst forth in a joyous i
demonstration nt these tidings, and the
rejoicing was reflected in Budapest and
Berlin.
It is understood that King Nicholas
has pone to Italy, "and 'probably nn
Austrian will set on the throne that
ho quit when the stress of war boeaine
too serious for him longer to hold out.
Tho peace proposals did not come as
a surprise, for several dayB ago it was
reported unofficially that Montenegro
had asked for an nrmistic. At that
time, Anstrians had swept victoriously
into Oottinjo, capital of the little king
dom. Subsequent engagements nro be
lieved to have been fought between
Austrians and Montenegrins irregular.
Montenegro declared war on Austria
August 7, M-, and on Germany August
12. Fcaco terniB will includo both coun
tries. At the outset Montenegrins invaded
Bosnia and Horzeovinn. They co-operated,
too, with the Serbians. Despite
tho fact that tho Montenegrins were
poorly equipped and unable to make
much progress, they held the small
portion of invaded Austrian territory
mitil recently. All the time their
fighting was with tho ferocity of
fanatics.
Compared with the forces hurled
against them lit various times, tho
Montenegrins were scarcely more than a
handful, and it is reported tliat at no
time did they have an army of more
i 1 1, a. i r.n nnn
Tho crisis in Montenegro enme with
INT T
II VI
Commerce Map.ahnwinjr. .pwmpertjor United Statee lnJ91,
As will be seen, the localities having
"good" prospocts (those unmarked)
are the Atlantic and a large pirt of the
southeastern states), those between the
Mississippi and the Rockies and a part
of California. Those where the pros
pects are "fair" are marked with di
agonal lines and tho only soctiou where
MS.,?
I M UV MjUt MUM VMIJ (WVBW V
Completion
The Hague, Jan. 17. A year's study
may be necessary before the Ford
peace program can bo. submitted to the
belligerents, members of the party re
maining for establishment of a per
manent peace tribunal admitted today.
Their information leads them to be
lieve, that tho war will continue that
land. It was reported that Rev. Vt.
Aked, of San Francisco, will receive
$25,000 for abandoning his pulpit while
he is engaged in the tribunal work.
Lenders of the exposition tried to g"t
all delegates to sign the resolution at
tacking President Wilson's prepared
ness plan, bofore sailing, In the en
suing wrangle, Beveral women were in
tears, 1
Stock Market Halts;
Price Range Very Narrow
(Copyright 1916 by the New York
Evening Post.)
New York, Jan. 17. The stock
market seemc.l to come to a dead halt
today. Trading was reasonably active,
but prices moved within the narrowest
range, and the changes were mostly un
important. From ono viewpoint, this
is the natural and familiar sequel to s
prolonged break Biich as tho industrial
issues have sustained. In such a pro
cess of readjustment, the downward
movement reaches its speculative cul
mination; then stocks which have fol
lon the most violently recovered sharp
ly under "covering by bears;" then
even these recede again and the gen
eral markets become dull,
News that Montenegro had applied
for Bopnrato peace was not unexpected;
did not alter the general view toward
tho war, and was hardly 1 'roflccted" in
the market. Whether sentiment was
influenced by England's new plan for
a close blockade of Germany, and the
possibility of consequently irritnting
friction witn tne l nueu oiaies, it
-would not be so easy to say. . ,
THE JANITOR REFUSED
TO INTERFERE WITH JOB
Snn Jobo, Cnl., Jan. 17. Frank Hill,
a stranger, tired of life today. So, in
the privacy of his quarters in a room
ing house, he swung off for eternity at
the end of a rope. Death didn't come
calmly. Ho struggled. Tho janitor
heard him, but mado no attempt to cut
him down. Ho'd heard it. was illegal
for nnyono but tho coroner to cut down
n man who had hanged himself, ho to'.d
tho police. Hill succeeded, with tho
janitor's noninterference.
tho culmination of tho Teutonic cam
paign against Serbia. Austrian forces
turned their attention to an invasion
of tho littlo country, and within the
past few weelis had Bwept victoriously
over the entire state and into the
capital, f'ettinje, after surmounting tho
supposedly impregnuble difficulty
Mount Lnwcen, key to f'ettinje.
With this occupation, Monlenegro
found herself facing extermination so
decided not to continue the struggle.
She was able to nsk the peace inasmuch
as she hnd not signed the nliled trealy
binding Kngland, France, Uussift and
Italy not to conclude a separate pence.
tho outlook is declared "poor" is s
part of Washington nnd Oregon.
This bears a striking contrast with
the map showing com. litlons in ll'lfi,
which only showed "good" conditions
in a part of Iowa, Minnesota and in a
pirt of Iowa, Minnesota and Houth Da
kota of the southeast, and part of the
Hocky mountain section was "poor."
URKS ARE DEFEATED
BY ALLIED FORCES
London Advices Claim Successes In Important Struggles Ca
Two of Asiatic Fronts Constantinople Admits Retreat
-Venice Reports That Italy Will Not Enter Balkan Cam
paign, Leaving Montenegro and Serbia to Be Completely
Crushed-Snow Hold's Up, Operations of East Front r
London, Jan. 17. Turkish foemen have been swept
back in defeat by allied forces in important struggles on.
two of the three Asiatic fronts.
The Constantinople war office itself admitted today
that advanced posts in the Arras and ,Id valleys of the
Caucasus region had been forced to retire several miles;
at the same time Secretary for India Chamberlain an
nounced in the house of commons that General Aylmer'a
relief expedition had again defeated the.Turks, capturing
a Turkish position in. the. Kut-el-amara region.
Petrograd reported that the Turkish soldiers had been,
hurled back on a wide front, and Constantinople admitted
this. The Russians are getting closer to Kermansah
where a battle with a-Turko-Persian force is imminent.
. Chamberlain announced that the Turks continue their
retreat in the Kut-el-amara region. Rainy weather hind
ers the expedition in pursuit of the retreating Turks, but
it is believed that the siege of this town,, wjth the British,
hemmed in on all sides, will be lifted shortly, as the relief
forces are within a days march of Kut-el-amara's outer
defenses .
There is no news of the struggle on the third front in.
Persia around Hamadan. ' . , .
Word of the allied successes was received joyously
here, for it was taken as the beginning of the collapse of.
the Teutonic aims at a "place in the sun" in the east.
Interest in the triple campaign overshadowed the news
from other fronts, because of the vital possibilities there
in, and by reason of the fact that the struggle is more bit
ter than any other now progressing.
London, Jan. 17. Turks, frocd for
other service by tho British cbnndon
ment of the Gallipoll peninsula, aro be
ing rushed to Asia to meet onslaughts
on threo fronts, according to Athens
advices today. Tho operations in the
East eclipse those in Kuropc, and spoed
is essential as the British are gaining
tho upper hand, according to reports.
In MeBtopotamia, after varying for
tunes, the Turks aro retreating on both
n h. 'I'ltrriu anni ) I ivuirei-uiii
ara. Meantime, tlenernl Aylinnr appears
likely to Bccompnsn ins nniwiuu ui i
lleving the hard-pressed British force nt
Kut el nmnra. ,
nimiiltninniinlv. Grand Duko Nicholas
on tho Caucasus front is trying to ram
his wny through to Mesopotamia to join
the British forces, while in Persia tho
Germans, it is known, havo united with
tho Turks in n bitter struggle near
llamndnn,
T....b ...wl TTiiuuinn official claims nro
at odds in the matter of tho Caucasus
engagement, but the Huiisinns apparent
ly nro Having tne auvunuino in umi
offensive. Constantinople admitted to
day that the Turk ouviinco posis nuu
retreated several miles, though Inst
nit'lit 's statement claimed victories for
the Turks.
The London war offico announced
lust night that the Turks lire retreating
in the Kut-el-iimara vicinity.
Tim trinlo ktrnirtle is destined to 1)0
of importance, for Germany long has
lni.l ilrennis or nn empiro in mo eiiHi,
uud if the battling now progressing is
suceesstui lor tne nun's, mo iniiumt
ambitions may be crushed for nil time.
A subsequent official statement from
tho war office today said General Ayl
mer's forces had nicnln defeated tho
Turks, rapturing a Turkish position.
Italy Changes Flans.
Vienna, Jan. 17. ltnly has abandon
ed plans for participating in the llnlknn
struggle, ami to this end, is preparing
to evacuate Allmiiln, according to ad
vices reaching here today. Moreover,
the Herbs will be drinui from Albania,
leaving the Montenegrins to be crushed
between the Austriiins on the north and
the Bulgnrs on the south, if the Monte
negrins succeed in escaping from their
native bind into Albnnin.
Meantime General Koevess Is trying
to cut off King Nicholas entire Monte
negrin army. Beforo another month,
Albania as well as Montenegro may be
in Austrian hands.
The Austrians lire approaching Antl
vnrl, tho only seaport of Montenegro.
Another force hns occupied I'odgeritr.n
and is trying to close tho ring around
tlm Montenegrins.
The Italian decision to evacuate Al
bania is reported to have been rwirhod
after a lengthy conference among King
Ictnr Lmmannel nnd his army ehlers.
Tho king was said to have favored
throwing a lnrger army Into Albania in
an attempt to drive out the Austrians.
hut the genernls opposed scattering of
tho Italian forces, and Instead favored
coacentratlon of the campaign alowr
tlin Anstro-ltalian border.: The argued
that if thov wero victorious la thlsi.rnm
palgn, Italy could loose Austria's hold
on Montenegro and Albania through tli
ultimate peace conference.
Civilians Are Killed.
Berlin, by wireless to Hnyville, 1 1
Jan. 17. Sixteen civilians were fcineH
or wounded at Lens by British artillery,
according to official announcement to
day. "Snowstorms," said the statement,
"have impeded activity in Russia, and
for tho most part tne engagements inere
are only between patrols."
English Buy Grata
Bucharest, Jan. 17. An Knglish y
dicnto today pnid .r0,000,000 la gnhl
for 80,000 cars of grain It Is under
stood that tho allies Intend to purchaso
tho entire Rumanian grain surplus in
conformity with their plan to "starve
out Gormnny. "
Turks In Itotroat.
Constantinople, Jan. 17 The Turkish
advunro posts in the Caucasus retreated
sovornl miles before tho now Russian
offensive it was officially admitted to
day. Tho retirement of the Turks followed
a week of successfully holding off
Grand Puke Nicholas' superior forees.
"Tho Kusuinns repeatedly attacked
on both banks of the Arras river, suf
fering henvily," suid tho statement.
"In tho Arrns and Id valley districts,
Turkish advnnco posts retired several
miles."
Intermittent artillery firing was re
ported near Jvut-el nmnra.
Agree to Armistice.
Athens, dun. 17. Reports thnl Aus
tria and Montenegro had agreed to ia
armistice wero corroliorated today ia
advices to newspapers here, but they
wero unofficially ronhrincd.
Austria FUos Protest.
Viennn, Jan. 17. Austria protested
today to the allied seizure of the Greek
island of Corfu, in a note through Am
erican Ambnssador l'enfield.
Ask for Fence.
Berlin, by wireless to Hnyville, I. T.,
Jan. 17. Montenegro hns asked Amtr'ui
for peace, Count Tina Announced in
the Hungarian parliament today, ac
cording to dispatches.
THE WEATHER
.
(ME. FOR
JU ANT
,5ourH
Oregon! Tonight
and Tuesday ra
or snow west,
settled, prohahty
snow east portion
and wanner; ad
easterly w 1 d s,
reaching a gnl
force near to too
coast. . ' '
3
1
