The Famous Briggs
5 c His Immitabic Cartoon's on
The T.-D. Sporting Page
Sketches From Life
See Temple's Human Interest
T.-D. Pictures Daily
t " " '
PRICE. TWO CENTS.
^'ith YEAR Bigg k, RICHMOND, VA? MONDAY, JUNE 12,. 1916. ?TEN PAGES. "TiM'r" ?UNSETTLED
Curt Message From Trevino
Repudiates Agreemoiit
With Gavira.
WAS INTENDED TO PREVENT
UNAUTHORIZED ATTACKS
In View of Increasing Antag
onism, Impossible to Pro
tect U. S. Citizens.
SAFEGUARD OTHKU NATIONALS
Cavalry Pursues Bandits to Border
After Rnid on Texas
Bam-hcs.
SAX AXTOXTO. TKX.. June 11.?
What Is reparded by American army
?>MWre aw official repudfation of the
a frpfmfnt entered Into by Generals
Pershing and Gavira." was contained In
a curt message from General Jacinto
Trevino to General Pershing, Inform
in? htm that General Gavira ha? no
authority to discuss military subjects
with him. General I'er.'hhic sent a
? opy of Ocner.il Trevlno's message to
department headquarters h--re.
The ai?reernent between General
Pershing and General Gavira had to do
v 1th disposition of troop* in the ter
ritory controlled by the American puni
tive expedition, and was Intended as a
precaution that might orevn.it unau
thorized clashes. It <n n<> way affected
:he more Important phases of the sit
uation.
General Gavira was ordered to Mex
co City ahout the time General Tre
vmo f.ent his inest-ag* to General Per
.??hinc
'.\y IRA TO PltOTKC'T
OTIIKIt > ATIOSAI.S
Official advices have been received
hy General Funston that General Ga
vira has aslted officers at Chihuahua
to supply him a lint of their nationals,
?ther than Americans, explaining that
be wishes to know them, in order to
afford them protection, that he would
be glad to afford protection to Amer
icans as well, but in view of the in
creasing antagonism by Mexicans, he
regarded it as practically impossible to"
do so. *
It became known to-day that only
'lie withdrawal of Colonel Sibley's
f-irce that entered Mexico after the
vaid at Glenn Springs prevented its
ittack by Carranza troops Army of
flt ers here have learned that a force of
1.000 troops had been sent northward
with orders from the Governor of Coa
huila to tet In contact with the Ainer
ati troops and force them out of M<-\ I
Ico.
II -WHITS A?AM)O.N I.OOT
IIKPOIIK t'ROSSINfi IIOHDKIl
r.AREDO, TKX.. June 11.?American
troops sent from here early to-day to
pursue fifteen Mexicans who raided the
T. A. Coleman ranch near San Samuel,
forty miles notthwest of I.aredo, did
not cross the border, according to re
ports received here late to-night by '
f.eneral Mniin. The Mexicans: did not
ricceed in driving the eighty-odd
iiors.es stolen from the Coleman ranch
-.cross the Rio Grande, General Mnnn
wis informed, having abandoned the
nr.lmals within two miles of the border.
The bandits, or whoever they were,
evidently pot cold feet." General Mann
said, "and in view of the fact that
they abandoned their loot !t was not
thought necessary to pursue them be
yond boundary."
ALMOST IN COLLISION
f.lner Philadelphia Han Xnrrow KHciipe
From Itnniinlnc nrlflNh
Freighter.
[Special to The Times-Dispatch.)
NEW YORK, June 11.?The Ameri
can liner Philadelphia, which arrived
here to-day from Liverpool, had a nar
row escape from collision off Fire
island this morning. "While proceeding
at a moderate rate of speed in the
misty weather, the dull outline of the
British freighter Rochester suddenly
loomed up in front of the Philadel
phia's bows. Captain Candy, of the
latter vessel, was just able to maneu
ver his ship in time to avoid the col
lision. The two ships passed within a
few yards of each other.
During the voyage. T. Mnrhews, a
stoker, committed suicide after two
previous attempts.
In the steerage of the Philadelphia
25fi were Trish girls who are here to
enter domestic service. They are the
first to come here In the past five
months. Most of them were held in
Ireland owing to the revolution there.
M'MANUS NOT IN FUNNY M000
I nrtoonIM Advertlwew for i?2.0(>u Dia
mond nrooolt, Which Ills
Wife I.OMt.
f.Special to The Times-Dispatch.J
NEW YORK, Juno 11.?Georgo^Me
.Manus, the cartoonist, drew a funny
picture to-day because he couldn't help
it, but that's not the way he felt at
all, for he has an advertisement in tho
papers this morning, by which he hopes
to get back a $2,000 diamond brooch
his wife lost.
Mrs. McManus went to a restaurant
at Broadway and One Hundred and
Forty-seventh Street on Friday after
noon for luncheon. As It was raining,
she took a taxlcab home. Whon she
got to tho apartment she found her
brooch was gone. She recalled having
had it on whlli! In the" restaurant.
A reward Is oiYered for the return of
I ho brooch. ?
Senator Stone Arrives in St.
Louis With Partial
Draft.
EXPRESSES SENTIMENTS
OF PRESIDENT WILSON ;
Object of Framers Is to Present,
Concrete Record of Party
Achievements.
TO ACCEPT RKPrm.rCAX DKFI
| ? ,
Will Also Meet Indictments Con
tained in HuRlies's Letter
of Acceptance.
j FT LOUIS. MO., .tune 11? Senator,
; Stone. who will h<.> chairman of the j
; resolutions committee. which will draft
I the Democratic platform, arrived here
j to-night with drafts of a number of
i platform I'iaukF, some of whirh have
' been prepared by President Wilson
i himself. Mr. Stone laid the drafts be
; fore Chairman MoCombs and held con- 1
ferences \\ Ith other party 3eaders
Ail the planks as they now stand are !
subject to 'he action of the resolu-i
tlons rnmmHtee, but certain of them,
which express especially the senti
ments of President Wilson, are sure to
j he incorporated practically as they
I were brought b.v Senator Stone.
1 Generally the object of the platform
! builders !s to present a concrete re
I cord of party achievements, as a plat
j form in themselves, to accept the rhal
I lenses of the Republican platform, and
; meet the indictments contained in Mr. I
: Hughes's telegram of acceptance of j
j the Republican nomination. The prin
j clpal planks ay they stood to-night |
j when Senator Stone went Into confer- |
; ence with Chairman McCombs may be ?
authoritatively outlined as follows:
?STHICT AM) HOXESr
NKt'TRAMTY MAINTAINED
Foreign Relations?Pointing out the
I unprecedented world conditions before
I the war, it i.a contended that Presi
j dent Wilson, while keeping the United
States at peace, has maintained a neu
trality both "htrlct and honest." The
diplomatic achievements of the Presi
, dent In prevailing upon Germany to
] pledge herself to cease h?r submarine
' warfare methods wliLhi-pointed out as
j one of the potent reasons why the
. Democratic administration should be
' continued in power.
i Mexican?The Mexf?an situation, pre
sented frankly and fully from the J
viewpoint of the administration, will
be recited with claims of Justification
for the administration's course as best.
!shaped to conserve peace with the
' neighboring republic. Tne c(?ur?? of
I the administration will be held to be
| one in aid of a distracted and dis
I tressed people torn by internal strife
' The United States, as the next friend
of Mexico, it will be contended, has
been acting entirely disinterestedly in j
Mexico's aid, and with full respect and j
! consideration for her sovereignty.
TO TREAT PREl'ABRDXBSS
I'NDER TWO SEPARATE HEADS
Preparedness?This will bo treated
under two separate heads, one dealing
with what already has heeti accomplish- ?
; ed. and the other with that which is in J
, the making. Tt will be pointed out [
that th* party has met new world
conditions demanding preparedness for ?
national defense by pointing to the ad- !
van cod stage of preparedness of the
1 navy, both in ships and men; legisla
I tlon already enacted for the enlarge
I ment of the Naval Academy and admln
' lstration plans for rapid and balanced
(enlargement of the nation's forces for
defense at sea. It will be contended
that probably more will he. done dur
ing three years of Democratic adminis
tration than has been accomplished for j
many preceding years under Republi- !
! can rule. The enlargement of the rcgu- |
lnr army and the reorganization of the
National Guard, with provisions bring- j
ing it more thoroughly under Federal
control, will be cited among the meas
ures of achievements for national de
j fense already accomplished.
1 Financial?The Federal reserve act, 1
i reorganising the currency system of j
the country to a basis calculated to j
provide for the expansion and con- I
traction of currency to meet the flue- j
tuatlng courses of trade and to bulwark 1
the financial structure of the nation
against times of panic, will he pointed
out as one of the foremost achieve
ments of the party, and an act which
the Republicans unsuccessfully dealt
\vith for many years. Pending legisla
tion for a system of rural credits will
| be cited, also in that connection.
| WILL POINT OUT TARIFF
AS PARTY ACHIEVEMENT
Tariff?The reduction of tariff duties
on a scale which the Democratic, plat
form makers contend would be a nor
mal Income for the support of the gov
ernment in normal times will be point
ed out as a party achievement. The
enactment of an income tax will he
presented as one of the party measures
to bring income to the .support of the
government, while dividing the burden
according to the ability of the indi
vidual to bear it; the creation of a tariff
commission for scientific study and re
adjustment of duties to protect Ameri
can industry against the flood of
European products after the fighting
millions turn to the pursuits of peace:
the shipping bill now pending, to create
an American merchant marine to re
lieve the commerco of the country from
the lack of ocean transportation, and
still making provision to withdraw
operation from competition with pri
vate capital when the latter Is ready
to undertake the enterprise; also will be
(Continued on Second Page.)
Where Democratic National Convention Will Be Held
The Coliseum, St. l,ouls. >1o. (Insert), Martin H. (Jlynn, Who Will Be Temporary Chairman ami Make Keynote Address.
Adranre Guard Arrives. With Slogan
of ??Peace, Prosperity and
Preparedness."
NO CLOUDS APPEAR OX HORIZON
Kvery Delegate Instructed for or
Committed to Nomination of Wil
son, and Vast Majority Ready "to
Rename Vice-President Marshall.
ST. LOUIS. June 11.?Forerunners of
tho delegates who .'ire to nomi
nate President Wilson and Vice-Presl- |
dt r\t Marshall at the Democratic Na
tional Convention this week moved
in:o St. Louis to-day with the slogan
of "Peace, Prosperity and Prepared-;
ness."
The convention will hold its first ses- ;
slon at noon on Wednesday. A con
test of six seats from the District of
Columbia will be taken up at a meet
ing of the Democratic National Com
mittee to-morrow. The committee will
also decide two contested seats on the
national committee, one from Texas.
and one from the District of Colum
bia. Thomas Love is contesting the
seat of William Poindexter, of Texas,
and four Democratic clubs in Washing- I
ton. D. C., are contesting the selection
of John F. Costello as committeeman.
FEW PAVOHITK SO.V
VOTES AIIK RXl'KCTED j
Kvery delegate is either instructed ,
for or committed to the nomination
of President Wilson, and the vast ma
jority of them are said to be ready tc?
rename Vice-President Marshall. A
few favorite son votes are expected
to bo cast for Vice-President, but the
party leaders predict the other names
will be withdrawn and that Marshall's
renomination, like that of President
Wilson, will be made by acclamation.
"We are here to ratify the desire ot
the Democratic party," said National
Chairman McCotnbs to-night. "There
might be a fight if we could hold
the convention in Europe. It's a cer
tainty there will be no fight here. The
program Is all arranged and there!
should be no hitch."
Senator Stone, of Missouri, arrived
to-night, bringing what was said to I
bo a draft of the party platform, with
the main planks sketched in detail by!
President Wilson. Senator Stone is
slated to he chairman of the committee
on resolutions, which, it is understood, j
will put President Wilson's ideas on
certain planks in written form, and
adopt other planks bearing on pre
paredness and foreign policy. Just as
written by tho President. Woman suf
fragists. who led the fight for a suf
frage plank In the Republican plat
form, are ready to wage a similar cam
paign for a suffrage plank in tho Hem- j
ocratic platform. Members of tho coin- !
mltteo from the suffrage States are ex- i
pected to len.l thoir aid.
Mrs. Catt, president of the National j
Woman Suffrage Association, s here j
with other leaders to direct the tight, j
POSITION ON SUFFRAGE
SI MI T.Alt TO HE**!* II 1,1 CANS
Democratic leaders say there are In
dications that the party will take a
position on suffrage similar to that of
the Republicans?n declaration In prin
ciple for suffrage, but leaving It a
matter for tho States to determine.
Leaders now hero do not expect any
sustained flght for a prohibition plank.
There were unconfirmed reports to
night that William J. Bryan, though
not a delegate, would find some way
to precipitate a fight, on the prepared
ness plank, but none of his friends
hore could say how this might .he done.
Mr. Bryan will only be able to address
tho convention with the unanimous
consent of its 1,092 delegates, and he
may not occupy a seat on the floor
of tho convention .unless both ft dele
" (Continued on Hocond PagoT)
Conference Between
Hugh es and Colonel
Now Seems Probable
Elihu Root Said to Be In
dustriously Blazing Trail i
to Oyster Bay for Re
publican Candidate.
HV.W. A DAVE.M'OHT.
WASHINGTON", June 11.?Charles
Evans Hughes, the austere man of
law whom the Republican party hails
as its Moses, to-morrow will make his
first step upon the political path that j
he hopes may lead to the White House, j
He will leave Washington and his six
year sanctuary of Supreme Court si- '
lenoo for New York. This much, and
no more, he toM a reporter as he was j
leaving Calvary Baptist Church this
morning. To questions of why and
for how long, he replied with a most
becoming smile.
But over the many wires that stretch i
from Washington residential to Wash
ington political came the following
hints:
nroHics wu,i, confer
WITH PARTY LEADERS
While in New York the former Gov- '
ernor of New York?they do not call j
him former Justice Hughes, signifi- ;
eantly enough?will confer with sev- '
eral big Republicans who will figure
prominently in his campaign. One of
the men with whom he may talk is
none other than his party's "little old
man of the sea," Colonel Theodore
lioosevelt.. ,
He will settle upon a summer head
quarters. It will not be inaccessible
Rangeley Lake, Me.; it probably will
be I.ake Placid.
He will map out a tentative plan
of his part in the campaign.
It Is accepted as indisputable that
he will not do any prolonged nor ac
tive campaigning. But if present plans
are adopted, Mr. Hughes will make at
least two speeches in the State of New
York, one each in Indiana and Ohio
on propitious occasions and make one
trip to the Pacific Coast. However, it '
matters little Just now where lie will
speak or how much. The big thing is
the rumor that Mr. Hughes and Colonel j
Roosevelt are to talk it over amidst
the moose horns anil bearskins of Saga- J
more Hill.
Of course, these rumors are supple- i
jnented and correlated by rumors. They ?
say that Elihu Root is industriously
blazing the trail to Oyster Bay f>>r the j
Republican candidate, and they go on !
to say that such Is the present mood
of the sagacious Colonel that he will
take tho historic stump in behalf of
tlio man who defeated him in the Chi
cago convention.
One might go on to predict the com
plete restoration of the powerful He
publican machine of the halcyon days
of Hanna et al., because they are say
ing that the Colonel will share tho
stump circuit with .William H. Taft. j
These are a thousand and one such j
rumors, all vouched for by "men on j
tho inBide." There Is one healthy argu
ment against just such vouehlngs, how
ever. It is an argument that needs but
a few moments' contact with this man
who Is hailed as a Moses, a Gideon
and even il Jason.
THERE IS ONIiY ONI) MAX
REAIiLY "ON THE INSIDE"
The argument is that there is only
one man "on the inside." His name
is Charles Evans Hughes, and all the
Information that lie is vouchsafing to
the turbulent regiment of reporters !
now wearing out his door hell Is "1
am going to New York some time
to-morrow.'.'. . !
. He will not tell at what hour he
leaves Washington; nor will he tell
where he will st? .1 while In New York.
He will not even admit that he hud
anything further to say. Apparently
he has but a few "yeses" and "noes"
left. He. refused to release any to-day.
They are saying a lot of thine* about
Mr. Hughes just now. One of them,
they say, annoys him. It is that hot
is coldly literal; that he lacks sym- <
pathetic understanding; that his is a
nxarble heart, and that he has a Besse
mer steel personality.
It takes a deal of time to discover!
all about one man. .So lest it be noted
by the stranger looking for such
austerity that Mr. Hughes has a rather
vote-fearing smile, they add that ho,
has undergone a swift change within
the past forty-eight hours?since ho
was told of his nomination.
Well, if Mr. Hughes was clothed in
any heavier reserve while a justico
than now, a candidate, he was not only*
icebound, but absolutely invisible then, j
With Mrs. Hughes and his. daughter,,
Catherine, the hope of the Republican
party attended Calvary Baptist Church
to-day and heard Rev. Samuel H. Green,
J>. L>.. preach a sermon based upon the
twenty-fourth verse of the ninth chap- ?
ter of the First Kpistle to the Corinth- ;
lans, "So run that ye may obtain."
Everybody in the church gave phy-!
aical evidence of appreciation of the
aptness of the text, except Mr. Hughes.!
One eoubl spend a pleasant fortnight
concreting some sensation that would :
break through the mental defenses of!
this man's emotions and fail.
C.\ MI1UATK AltltlVKS
AS .SEUVICKS HHtil.N
The candidate arrived just as ser-'
vices were beginning. The Vaughn j
Bible School class of men occupied the
front pews. Mr. Hughes wore a rather
capacious morning coat and a panamaj
hat. Mrs. Hughes was clad in a very'
pliin green silk gown. Miss Catherine ,
Hughes wore blue, and seemed to l>a
the only member of the party conscious
of the. fact that there was a crowd of,
curious persons massed around the
church stoop.
Before launching upon his sermon, j
Dr. Oroen, gazing directly at Mr.
Hughes, declared that boforo the eyes j
of the young men of tho country there!
was evidorwo that the' highest honors, |
the most glorious laurels, were to he
won by hard work, straight living and
strict adherence to the laws ?>f (?od.
He did not mention the name of the
honored man seated halfway down the ;
aisle. Nor did he even intimate that he'
was holding Mr, Hughes, aloft as a
model. But the inference was plain, [
and after the service tho Republican
candidate was forced to hold a little
reception in the vestibule. He let them
shake his hand as much as they liked.
Then, with us small concern as he
would have accepted had he been en- !
tering the dining-room, he strode out I
of tho church through tho two crowds '
that hemmed in the sidewalks and
passed the motion-picture cameras that
were whirring in a breezy chorus. He I
ignored the waiting motor, after assist
ing Mrs. Hughes In. With Miss Cath- !
arlne, he walked to his home in Six- j
teenth Street, two miles distant.
In the afternoon to got out his little
electric, car and visited his erstwhile
colleagues on the Supreme Court bench, j
Ho denied himself to interviewers and i
declined to make any appointments.
Whatever may be his fortunes in tho !
(Continued on Third Page.)
$37.00-?Betrolt and Krlitrn?S27.00
fio with Hit mitt Grotto, Saturday. June lT(!i. ,
via N. & \V. lty.. specMl fa?t train: Hpcclul ;
iidvnniuKvri. I*hon? Mud'son IS? for Jur 1
ther particulars.?Adv.
SUFFRAGISTS WILL ASK
ACTION BY DEMOCRATS
Want Full-Fledged "Woman's Bights
IMank Inserted iu Party
Platform.
INTERESTING FIGHT PREDICTED
Goldon Lane Demonstration on Open
ing Day of. Convention Expected
to Be aw Colorful Display as Was
Ever Made in Behalf of Cause.
ST. LOUIS. MO., June 11.?Woman
suffragists began pouring into St. Louis
to-day, bringing the argument that
the Democratic National Convention
should take advantage of the Republi
cans' failure to Indorse suffrage by
constitutional amendment, and insert
a full-fledged woman's rights plank in
the Democratic platform, and thereby
capture the large woman vote in the
suffrage States.
Many politicians predict the most in
teresting tight of the convention will
center on the suffrage issue. Through
out the convention there will be street
parades and other demonstrations, and
twenty-one women will .sit in the Dem
ocratic convention. Thirteen will be
delegates and eight alternates.
In addition to the women delegates,
who will be in the spotlight, there is
an optimistic little army working out
other details of the campaign.
COI.OKFVL DISPLAY
IN 11KHALF OK CAUSE
The "golden lane" demonstration on
Wednesday, the opening day of the
convention, is expected to bo as color
ful display as ever has been made in
this country in behalf of the cause.
Thousands of women will be ranged
in two lines along twelve city blocks,
through which Democratic delegates
must pass from their headquarters to
the convention hall. The title "Golden
Lane" conies from the fact that they
will wear suffrage colors, yellow
sashes and carry yellow parasols,
livery woman on the lane will be for
bidden to utter a word for two hours.
The women will stand four feet
apart. One camp stool will be pro
vided for every two. The climax of
the demonstration will be a tableau
on the old Art Museum, sit Nineteenth
and Locust Streets. "Liberty," posed
011 a pedestal will be the center of a
pyramid formation. On one side of her.
dressed in gay gowns, will be figures
representing the eighteen States in
which women are partly enfranchised.
Another group of a similar number
dressed in mourning and with their
backs to the sun will represent States
in which women are wholly disfran
chised.
Their heads will bo bowed and their
faces shrouded in black veils. Figures
representing fully enfranchised States
will wear white gowns. Other women,
in gala costumes, will represent "vot
ing countries."
TO COMMISSION BIgTsHIP
r.xerelMe* on Siiper-Drruduntight I'enn
xvlviuiln Will Tnkc Place at
Norfolk Yard To-Day.
NORFOLK. VA., June 11.?The super
Preadnought Pennsylvania, the latest of
Uncle Sam's great lighting ships to be
completed for service, will be commis
sioned formally to-morroy at the Nor
folk Navy-Yard, with Interesting cere
monies. The Pennsylvania will leave
the shipyard at Newport News to-mor
row morning at i! o'clock, and is sched
uled to arrive at the navy-yard an
hour later. The commissioning of the
big ship will proceed at once.
Captain Wilson, designated as com
mander, Is expected to send his pen
nant to the topmast at 11 o'clock. Tho
ship will provision and coal for its
maiden voyage, tinder navy orders, to
Philadelphia, whore It will he thrown
open to th* inspection of visitors for
several days.
??
I CZAR'S FORCES
! CONTINUE DRIVE
! AGAINST ENEMY
In Saturday's Fighting, 409
Officers and 35,000 Men
Are Taken.
j GREAT QUANTITY OF BOOTY
FALLS INTO THEIR HANDS
i Austro-Hungarian Army Barring
Way to Czernowitz Is
Overwhelmed.
VERDUN" CLAIMS CONFLICTING
Paris Declares That. Further Assaults
of Goriiians Have Been
Repulsed.
From the wooded region of South
! west Russia t'> the Roumanian frontier,
the Russians are keeping tip their tre- ,
I rnendou? offensive against the Austro
? Hungarians, who have been re-en
forced oil several sect or s by Germans.
The advance of the Russians Is not
able for the large number of pris
oners taken and the enormous captures
of guns, machine guns, ammunition and
other war stores. In the week that has
elapsed since they first threw thelt
attacks against the Austrians, the Rus
sians report that they have captured ap
proximately 108.000 officers and men,
and forced back the organized lines
i of their antagonists from the region
, of the Volhynlan fortress triangle to
j Roumanla.
! Having previously captured .Lutsk,
the Russians now have retaken Dub
no. the second of the fortresses In the
Volhynlan triangle held by the Aus
trians, and are pressing the retreat
| tng Austrlans westward.
j PHOtiHBSS ALSO MADE
I.N G.VLICIA AND nUKOWINA
In Galicla and Bukowina progress
also has been made by the Russians.
The Au6trlans admit the withdrawal of
I their forces In Northeastern Bukowina.
The Austrlans all along the battle
front are putting up a stubborn re
sistance, especially east of Kolkl. ly
ing to the north of Lutsk, where they
have forced back Russian advanced
j elements across the Styr River, and In
I the region of Torgovltsky, on the Styr
! south of Lutsk, where a sanguinary
1 battle Is in progress.
Since Saturday night, when three
? German infantry attacks against tho ,
I French trenches on hill 301 and other
points in this sector were put down by
the French fire, bombardments alone
have been in progress in the fight
ing zone about Verdun. No changes
| In position have taken place here or
; an any point along the line In Franco
| and Belgium held by the French, Brit
ish and Belgian'troops.
The British around Ypres have again
I been heavily shelled by tho Germans.
ITALIANS CLAIM PROGRESS
AGAINST AUSTRIAN'S
1 The Italians claim progress for their
j troops against the Austrlans In the
| region between tho Adigo and Breuta
j Rivers southeast of Trent, and an
j nounce the repulse, with heavy losses
? to tho attackers of Austrlans endeavor
ing to capture Monte Lemercne, south
' west of Asiago.
The Italian Cabinet has resigned as a
result of the refusal of the Chamber of
Deputies to give a vote of confidence
to the government after it had failed
to pass the budget of the Ministry of
the Interior.
The British troops In German East i
Africa have, captured the town of
Mombo. in the Usambara district, and
j the town of Blsmnrckburg, on Lako,^
; Tanganyika.
An official British tabulation of Ger
' man losses up to the end of May gives
aggregate casualties of 2,024.5S6. of
! which 734,412 represents men killed.
! These losses are declared to be exclu
sive of those sustained In naval en
gagements and the fighting In tho
colonies.
TOTAL OK UlS.fWH) MEN
CAPTURED nv RUSSIAN'S
PETKOGR^D, June. 11.?Austro
j Hungarian prisoners taken by the Rus
j sians In their present offensive now
total 108,000 men. In the fighting yes
i terday on the Volhynlan and Gallclan
fronts 409 officers and 35,000 men were
taken by the Czar's forces, according
to the official statement issued here
I to-day.
An army of 1.9,000 Austro-Hun
garlans, opposing General Teechitskyn,
in the direction of Czernowitz, Buko
wina was overwhelmed, the statement
says, and was captured
Thirty guns and a great quantity of
booty were also taken.
The official announcement adds:
"Our offensive Iti Volhynla. Galicla
j and Bukowina obtained fresh successes
I yesterday. The armies of the enemy
; continue to suffer enormous losses In
prisoners alone.
I "The tierce attacks of our troops are
i throwing Into our hands thousands of
prisoners and booty of all kinds, tho
I exact estimate of which Is as yet Im
possible
"For instance, on a single scctor on
the enemy front wo captured twenty
one searchlights, two convoys, twen
ty-nine field kitchens. forty-6evftn
trains of machine guns, 12,000 poods
j of barbed wire fa pood la equivalent
! to thirty-six pounds). 1,000 concrete
1 planks, 7,000,000 cubes of concrete, 10,
| ooo poods of coal, enormous depots of
ammunition and quantities of arms and
other material.
"In another sector we captured *(>,
000 rifle cartridges, 300 boxes of ma
clilne-gun cartridges, 200 hoxes of hand j
| ?renad?s, 1,000 rifles, four aaachiue .j
