stepping" and the movies were hard- g N -a g-rsd --
ly kown-heydid ot iterere A SSo,ooo, in the afternoons and even
ly known--they did not interfere anaeaediy tedneo
with newspaper reading. Nowadays th' os of course. There s a plenty of
the only time one gets to read s time, however, for the careful read
newspaper carefully is in the morn- - nt of the morning paper.
in- mer
NO. 3524. WEATHER-CLOUDY, WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, JUNE 12, 1916. ONE CENT.
T. R.'S ATTITUDE
PROVES SHOCK
TO DEMOCRATS
Leaders in St. Louis Growling
Because Colonel Failed to
Head Moose Ticket.
SEE WORK MADE HARDER
Outlook for Tame Convention
Also Proves a Wee Bit
Bothersome.
WOULD LIKE GOOD, HOT BATTLE
Feared There Will Be Little Chance to
Do Mich Advertising for Party
at the Big Show.
By E. C. HILL.
(Sun News Service.)
St. Louis, June IL-Two emotions agi
tate the minds of Democratic leaders as
sembling here for their party's national
cInvention-anger over Col. Roosevelt's
apparent refusal to help them re-elect the
President, and fear that their conven
tion proceeding are going to be so tame
as to have a bad effect on the country.
Their attitude toward the Colonel is all
the more amusing in that it is so in
tensely serlous. Their present indlgna
t on on this failure to run. true to form
iu revelation of how much they had
co.nted on him. Harsher words have
never been hurled at the Colonel in all
of his combative career than are now
treounding in the lobby of the Hotel
Jefferson. the general headquarters. As
matters stand, he has distinctly disap
pointed the Democratic party.
Great Shock to Leaders.
It is entirely plain that the outcome of
the conventions at Chicago was a shock
to Senator Taggart, of Indiana; Norman
E. Mack, of New York. and Roger Sulli
van, of Illinois, the three national com
" mitteemen who are arranging the con
vention preliminaries, and who epitom
ize the sentiments of their colleagues.
They had hoped that somebody besides
Hughes would be selected to run against
Wilson. or, if it had to be Hughes, that
the Colonel would instantly.accept a Bull
Moose nomination and roll up a few mil
lion votes, enough. anyway, to insure
Wilson's re-election. They assert that
Wilson will be re-elected even if the
Colonel does return to the G. 0. P. at
the head of the Eastern Progressives.
but they admit that things at Chicago
couldn't have turned out worse from their
standpoint.
And now, contemplating their own big
show, which will open next Wednesday
at noon in the Coliseum, they are gen
uinely distressed because there doesn't
seem to be material anywhere for even
a lively argument, let alone a good old
fashioned shindy of the sort that Demo
cratic conventions have staged in the
past (at Baltimore four years ago, for
example) and that are supposed to put
fighting spirit in the workers when the
campaign starts.
The Democrats already here. lead
4ONTINUED ON PAGE TWO.
TWENTY MORE PLANES
ORDERED FOR ARMY
(fBy the International News Service.)
New York, June 11-Urders for tweny
aeroplanes have been placed during the
past week by the War Department, ac
cording to information made public to
day by the Aero Club of America. This
makes a total of thirty flying machines
ordered for the United States army dur
ing the month.
Eight Martin biplanes and twelve
Sloane-Day biplanes have been ordered
from the Curtiss Aeroplane Company.
The Martin machines are to go to the
Philippines while the Sloane-Day craft
will be sent to the Army Flying School
at San Diego, Cal.
Hughes May J
In Prepar
Unless Absent from Wa
Nominee Will Tramp
dent and Members<
aCharles Evans Hughes, Republican
nominee for President, will be a, marcher
in the preparedness parade Wednesday,
if he is in town. This was declared yes
terday by Lawrence H. Green. his pri
vate secretary. fr. Hughes leaves today
for New York. and probably will return
in time for the parade.
President Wilson, members of his Cabi
net, Senators. Representatives and somie
'70,00 others will be In the line-up. Invita
tions were extended to former PresIdent
Taft, who will be in Washington tomor
row, and to CoL. Theodore Roosevelt, to
'participate in the demonstration. Former
President Taft. however, will leave the
cIty before the parade begins. No an
ewer had been received fronm Col. Roose
velt .late yegerday.
The psrade cmnitteet haded he ll
Democrats Are Worried
By'Chin Chin' and'3P's'
Spial to Th. Wusinsate Hald.
St. Louis, June ii.-There
are two things that are worry
ing the Democratic leaders
here assembled not a little
bit.
The principal worry is what
has come to be known here
as the "chin chin" ticket nom
inated at Chicago.
The other worry is Bryan
and, his "three p's"-"peace,
prohibition and pacificism."
* -t
150,000 LOST
BY AUSTRIANS
Victorious Russ Tear Two Big
Holes in Lines of Op
posing Army.
THOUSANDS OF PRISONERS
ARE REPORTED CAPTURED
Whole Sections of Trenches in Volhynia
and Galicia Transformed Into Piles
of Debris and Crushed Bodies.
!(By the International News Service.)
Petrograd. June I1.-The Russians in
Volhynta and Galicia have torn two huge
rents in the Austrian front and inflicted;
a loss in men so heavy that it must be
counted a long step toward the victorious
termination of the war.
In some parts of the battle line the Aus
trians were driven back in such disorder
that they were compelled to abandon
large numbers of wounded men. Thous
ands of prisoners were rounded up by the
cavalry which had got into the Austrian
lines of communication. Whole regiments
are said to have surrendered en masse.
The number of slain probably reached)
very large proportions, in consequence of
the thoroughness of the Russian artillery
preparations.
Some sections of trenches are said to
have been transformed Into a mush of I
crumbled concrete, burst sand bags.
splintered beams, mixed with mutilated
corpses and fragments of flesh. At such
point not a defender was left who had
enough life to offer any resistance.
The Russians charged over heaps of
dead foes. The most moderate estimate
of the enemy's losses is 15,0.0w)o, and some
estimates make It two-thirds greater. At
the minimum computation the Austrians
have lost at least a quarter of the total
force they had on this front.
Mexicans Fire
On Picnic Party
Cross to U. S. Soil and Make
Threats-American
Ranch Raided.
iBy the Sun News Serviee.l
El Paso, Texas, June 11 -Five armed
and mounted Mexicans rode across the
Rio Grande in the suburbs of El Paso,
this afternoon, shoved pistols into the
faces of the members of a picnic party
on the American side, cursed them, and
after recrossing to the Mexican side fired
vollevs at the picnic party.
No one was hit. United States troops
are investigating tonight.
San Antonio, Texas, June 11.-Mexican
bandits raided the ranch of T. A. Cole
man, near Hidalgo, in Hidalgo County,
Saturday night, and drove off eighty
horses.
Capt. 0. A. Bell, with one troop of
the Fourteenth Cavalry, has crossed into
Mexico in pursuit.
Smuts Reports Victories.
London, June 1I.-Encounters of small
consequences which have resulted in fur
ther British conquests in German East
Africa are reported to the war office by
Gen. Smuts.
>in Marchers
'edness Pageant
shington, the Republican
Up Avenue with Presi
>f "Enemy" Cabinet.
lam F. Gude. held their offices open all
of yesterday, receiving scores of new
marchers' entries. The list of organiza
tion entries in the parade will be closed
today at noon.
One of the most important details in
connection with the demonstration,
which was completed yesterday was the
organization of the medical aid unit, di
rected by Dr. Lewis J. Battle. Sixteen
first-aid stations will be maintained along
the line of march. Two physicians will
be at each station.
Parade and preparedness enthusiasm is
spreading like wild-fire. Marchers of all
ages and classes are listed, but perhaps
the most touching spectacle of the mon
ster demonstration will be that of a
band of women who, fifty-five years ago,
EDNT1NUEDO PAGE gQURS
4k
'-'I
"In 1861 the Republican party stood for the Union * * * It now
stands for a united people, true to American ideals, loyal to American tra
ditions, knowing no allegiance except to the Constitution, to the govern
ment, and to the flag of the United States." -Fromh the Republican Platform.
3,000 Soldiers Bake for British Troops
In Monster Bakery on French Front;
Men Declared Best Fed in All Europe
By JOHN L. BALDERwTO . pose, are filled with mountains of the their agents But the beef companies do
-- - -~ ,standard army rations, beef, tea, jam not have to deal with spies, unless there
General Headquarters. British Armies in and tinned vegetables.s
France. May 12-The perfect system and How Food Is Loaded. age question complicates matters
order which reign behind the front today Railway spurs run to the doors; at in
must be a curious contrast to the con- credible speed, traveling platforms carry ho mh G ood wa t upr ths
fusion and waste of the early days of the boxes beside the cars, where men of the b h oud w ten gth1
war. It is the fixed position of the bat- army service corps seize them and stacktn rae t am
tle lines that makes possible the mira- them inside. Each day, the base corn- if they were able to find out where the
cles of organization and transport en- mandant and his assistants receive from food was going, and In what
countered in the rear. but they are none the commissariat chiefs of the army de- a rouc
the less miracles for all that, and are tails of just how much food is needed, more dangerous secret that might decide
conclusive proof that whatever muddling and the cars are loaded at the base and a campaign, for they could follow the
may have to answer for in the conduct the food sent to the railroads nearest movements of troops which always take
of the war, there is no muddling here. the troops, where it is transshipped to place before important operations. The
At a great port which is one of the motor lorries, and finishes its journey inThe
bases of the British armies, I was shown, them. influx of Belgian refugees has made it
with other neutral observers, the pro- This sounds fairly simple. quite like impossible for the British or French
cess of feeding a million, more or less, the task of the beef companies in Chi- authorities to get rid of them.
thei ages.ult the shpent copanfeodc
hungry mouths. Great warehouses, built cago who daily send out meat for a el th spe s
since the war, or taken over for the pur- millsons in response to the demands of a TU n PAGE THREE.
GERMAN LOSSES PLACED ITALY FACES PITTSBURGH MUSICIAN
AT ABOUT 2,924,576 GRAVE CRISIS MURDERED IN AUTO
London. June 11.-The Official Press (y Su News Serviee)
Bureau tonight Issued the following state- Resignation of Salandra Cabi- Pittsburgh, Pa.. June 11.-Crumpled
ment: in the bottom of an automobile. hi
The total German official casualties net May Be First Step pockets turned inside out, and privat
are 73412 killed, 14o,6w5 prisoners. 191,557 papers scattered about, the body oi
missing. 1,51b652 wounded.a in Upheaval. William H. McCreary s of the North
.This Is not the British estimate." con- Side. a well-known musician. wa
cfudes the press bureau. found this forenoon in a field on the
S_ the Newa Servime.) outskirts of the city. Detectives are
ayfowe RechesNewYor. (Cpyrght 191, b th SunNew ~a camaingno five unientified foenowthe
New ork.Jun 11-he overmen vic.)emsen ofithop hcha ealwys taky
yach. Myflwer.hasarrved nd n- omeJun 11-TheSalndr ca infux ofelgian reugehha made c ice0
choed n te ort Rier aiingforhaingfaied o btan avot o co- Cringosilafre m sh mor rneyi e
fidenc fromParliaent, esigne uto- iie to et berugfgtedm. te
Preint anduths. Greatn warhoss uil ar wodiysndotma o
Pinethe waortknrvrfoh pur-mmthlfnsntn respon din to th e an of ERMC NSE OAE TEEE.
London. Jutne 11-The Norweial tem Pre secIsiprtvaaksginthe rnhteces
Brea tronigh Issued,2 toe, aolwn ae- Threinto oftecbntiteHllN.34adhepsinsat
a"codin toa dispatc o cilocasualtees ihhv enbeigudrtesr-cmltl hce atngtb h
sunk 73441 milnes. There5 prisonlys on191, crflycoca85y7h oen-Fec ropsy teofcalsaee
mssivor 1f1,65 thwPonderd. Tece n oesadwih bu o eiae tte~ a eate
"fThes Par was the brogittothshufae.tiratnatheetisactrnon
plneutldeso hegrveher1 prieewssrmn etcheneaentrte
Maynoer eaches Nw Yorkp. teotra f- rnhavne rnhsi h
New York, June 11.-The goverinmentth ttmntadbt eelt
linrchiladelphia.,which arrived here to- "iiyL es uhrDaeetd
ch fome ivterporthaa R nverwtn esae Nwfor u. tMs enFr
President andeMrs. Llson. sho Rillwar
frivomoisonw niret Afterd this morn on ju.konbfr hrmrig s Blioe n ho ue1 o1
Lo n Jtne 11.-The,'. Mowganthes enWbtr uhrannlyrgt adfrrtunutl2t.Cnein
sunkr commitesThere was ol oe idtdy h a nw ieyfr.rle ~~a qim ;ae
lneghtladdp.a.Whih aried ereto
Eleg. DuringtevygT Mahes adm h oe DjaZeSZ . ."~~s
Passenger on Sussex
Unconscious 4 Weeks
(By International News Service.)
New York, June ti.-George
H. Crocker, jr., of Fitchburg,
Mass., a survivor of the Sussex
arrived here today after the
most remarkable recovery in
the annals of the war. He
came on the American liner
Philadelphia.
Mr. Crocker, who is 23
years old, said he was standing
upon the forepart of the
Sussex when the torpedo
struck the vessel. "I felt a
violent explosion," he said
yesterday. "I woke up four
weeks later in a hospital in
Dover.
"The surgeons told me I
had been unconscious all that
time."
NORMAN MACK
FLAYS HUGHES
Attacks Position of G. 0. P.
Nominee and Puts
Questions.
ASKS WHAT COULD BE DONE
THAT WILSON HAS NOT DONE
Democratic Leader Wants to Know if
"Ulterior Purposes" Are Charged
to President-Asks About War.
By JAMES E. McBRIDE
I International News Service.)
St. Louis, Mo., June IL-Norman E.
Mack, Democratic national committee
man for New York. today attacked the
position of Justice Hughes in his state
ment of acceptance and put several ques
tions to the Republican nominee.
Here are Mack's questions to Justice
Hughes
"What would you do differently"'
"How would -u run things better than
President Wlson has done'" "Mr.
Hughes." Mack continues, "says that he
'stands for an Americanism that knows
no ulterior purpose, for a patriotism that
Is single and complete.' but Mr. HIshes,
on the other hand, was the pet candidate
of those who put their nativity before
their Americanism."
"Were these elements mistaken when
they denounced President Wilson and ap
proved the candidacy of Justice Hughes.
"Which is his sincere attitude-his ai
lence when these elements were booming
him for the nomination or his avowal of
ccmplete patriotism now that the ncm:
nation has been achieved'
"What does he imply or charge when!
he says that he stands for 'an American
ism that knows no ulterior purpose"
"Whom does he accuse of u'terior pur
poses?
"Is he hitting at Presider '!sor or
at ex-President Roosevelt" W-at wo.'d
Mr. Hughes do to maintain the nghts o.
American citizens that the Presid"^.t has
not done"
"Would he declare war on Gerrany or
England or both?
"Would he intervene in Mexico"
Moose Leaders
Swing to Hughes
Henry Allen Makes Declara
tion-Victor Murdock
Off to China.
(By the Sun News Servile.)
Chicago, June 11 -Progressive party
leaders began swinging into line for J ts
tice Hughes today.
Henry Allen, of Kansas. one of the
strongest Roosevelt admirers in the Msid
die West, declared himself in without,
reservations tonight. H' was for H'xgh,-s.
he said, all over the iot.
"We Progressives simply got put out of
business, but we still have an opportu
nity for service in supporting Justice
Hughes. I believe the ;reat iajority oi
Progressive rank and ble of the country
will fall in now."
While Allen was declaring Kansas, it
was learned that Victor M r 0ock. the
re-elected national chairman of th- Moose
organization, had departed for China.
Col. Roosevelt 1
That He Is
(By the sun News Service.)
Oyster Bay, June 11.-Col. Roose
velt barred all interviewers from Sag
amore Hilt today,
"It's no use your coming to see me,"
he said. "I have nothing t' say. I
will answer no questions, so please
don't ask me to. I am out of politics."
He passed a quiet day in the seclu
sion of his ly house on the hilltop,
except for his motor trip down to the
village to atten'd church with Mrs.
Roosevelt.
When Col. Roosevelt said yesterday
that he was out of politics, he made
the remark to a photographer so
liciting a pose, but today he made it
deliberately and with studied empha
sis, It is accepted here as meaning
HUGHES LEAVES
FOR NEW YORK
PARLEYS TODAY
Vominee Makes a Brief Ar -
nouncement After Attend
ing Church Services.
WITHHOLDS ALL DETAIL:
rime of Departure Not Giver
Becoming Smile Answer
to All Queries.
HAY CONFER WITH ROOSEVEL~
robable Plans and Movements Sub
ject of Many Rumors-Likely to
Make Several Speeches.
By W. A. DAVEfP Mst
Char:es Evanr Hughes, the austere ma
,f law whom the Republican party hail
/a .lc Mes, today will take his firm
et.p upo:. the political path that ma.
ead to the White House
He leaves Washington and his six ye.
sanctuary of Supreme Court silence to
New York This much and nu more h
'old a reporter as he was leaving Calvar:
Baptist Churh yesterday morning. T.
luestions of why and' for how long be
replied with a most becoming amile.
But over the many wires that .tretet
!rom Washlngton residential to Washing
ton political came the following hints
While in New York the forr.aer gover
nor of New York-they do not call bin
ermer Justice Hughes, signifieants
enough-wi:l confer with several big Re-.t!
publicans who will figure prominently ir
:is campaign.
May Talk with T. t.
One of the men with whom he may talk
Is none other than his party's little old
man of the sea. Col. Theodore Roosevelt
He wIL settle upon a summer head
quarters. It wfll not be inaoasbie
Rangeley Lake. Maine, it will probably
be Lake Placid.
He will map out a tentative greranm
of his part in the amenpimh It Is ac
cepted as undisputabbe that be mottU at do
any prolonged nor active emeinge==tm.
Bit if present plane ae mem, M
Hughes will make at least two peeana
in the State of New York, one ah is
Indiana and Ohio. on proptnens oera
alons and make one trip to the Pagfa
coast
However, it matter. little Just w
where he wIll speak or bow much. The
big thing is the rumor that Mr. HBuhes
and CoL. Roosevelt are to talk it ovr
amidst Moosehorns and bear shins of
Sagamore Hill.
Colonel May Stump fe. Nim.
Of course these runor are supple
mented and co-related by rumors Thay
say that Elihu Root I. industrously
blazing the tra:l to Oyster Bay for the
Republican candidate. and they go on to
say that su-h Is the present mood of
the sagac:ous Colonel that he will take
the historic stump in behalf of the man
who defeated him In the Chicago con
vention
One might e- on to predict the ca
plete restoratotn of the powerful Repu'
lican machmne of the halcyon das of
Hanna et al. because they are aying
that the >.lonel wtil share the sturnp
-:rcutt with '"::am H Taft.
There are tho~gn -!~ nd one auch
rumors all touched for by "men on the
insde.' Thee c :.e heathy argument
aciz nst !u't .h you:h:ngs. however.
It :s an argumetnt that ne,-ds but a few
moments com.t: w:th this man who is
hai:ed as a Ma:s, a Gideon and even a
Jason
That argument :s that there is only
one man "on the inide ' His name is
Charles Evans HI rhes and all the in- -
f'r;at.on that he w t'as to. he fi-ig to
thetui~ir "'2:,:t .i rt- :, bear
i.u..... 2 y,stera' was 'I
c: oic to Now York some':me tonor
rot.
German Artillery Active.
London. June :1-The German art l:e:v
was very active yesterday in the Ypres
salient, bombarding the town of Ypr s
and the region behind it to the south and
:naintairunu a heavy shill tire for three
orcn a frort of li( yards of It
ish trenches from Hill Fn northwarr
1eiterates
Out of Politics
palgn actively to elect Justice Hughes.
although the declaration comes so
clorely upon the heels of Hughes'
nomination and Roosevelt's loss of it
that there is a great deal of specu
lation as to whether or not the
Colonel would change his mind about
po!itieal activity if Mr. Hughes should
come Out more definitely for prepared.
ness and more pointedly against the
h-yphenates.
There isni t the slightest doubt herec
that Col Roosevelt will stick to his
refusal to accept the Progressive
nomination. desptte all efforts that.
may be made during the next few
days ta get hinm to head a third ticket
More than 400 telegrams have corne to
him today from Repubilcanasand Pre
