NIGHT
EXTRA.
'FINANCIAL EDITION
itmmm
ffie&ner
NIGHT
EXTRA
U0.-HO. 233
lLIILADELPJUXA, mokday, jtj"e 12, ioig.
Cortitiont, ISIS, st in Fcttta Loaci Co mm si.
PKICE ONE CENT
MISS BJURSTEDT AND MISS SEARS WINNING IN DOUBLES
vs
r j' -" -
rss
mm
wrs. ir't
ferns,
nmmu
&&&Ssy&&y7ZuZnj.
s'j . r - -s ., jf r . ': -- ... .m,i i-u'i " ' . ... . jtsaggsBsa
g''v' . dv; jz&'7jmmmmmmm&gk
ililil
I'hotn by 1Ubmm Ukikifr Start Photographer.
Qn th6 semifinal match of the championship 'doubles at St. Martin's today Miss Molla Bjurstcdt and Miss Eleanora Scars defeated Miss Susnnno White
K and Miss Dorothy JJisston, G-2 and G-4. Tlio players appear in this order in the photograph.
iRNOWITZ OUTER FORTS
lUNDER RUSSIAN FIRE; NEW
'DRIVE STARTED BY ITALIAN
IkonS, Outflanked by Russians in Buk-
3wina, Surrender With Two Generals
land Guns to Escape Annihilation
by Artillery Fire
The Russian armies are again smashing the Austrian lines between the
Mi marshes and the Rumanian border in their tremendous offensive. More
riQO.QOO Austrian prisoners havq been captured by the Czar's forces in the
Eweek, and both Galicia and Bukowina are seriously threatened. The Austri-
em qultcunnble to stem the advance of the Russian "steam roller."
pight on the heel of the sweeping Russian victories comes the announcc
ittfrom Rome that the Italians, having successfully checked the Austrian
S&ive between ttie Adige nnd the Brenta, have taken the offensive all along-
fcTrcntino front and have made advances in the first day of their drive.
TWs seems the beginning of the much-heralded Allied offensive on all fronts
lispose of the Teuton allies. Compelled to withdraw nearly 16 divisions from
If JRussian front Jn order to nttack Italy, Austria apparently has been caught
Ming from Lutsk to Czernowitz Attacked by n powerful Slav army, she is
lIi.C,.Si.' A,1. 'to' i 1L- Tii! -iir--.!... Ti v ..,.,.,.
pwgah uvjy uwtiriiruiu xtuezuuu -uiiu uu iiuuuu uueusivu. -it is not, uniiKeiy
jjiittftq And her powerful ally, Germany, together with Bulgaria, will bo attacked
yrcxt lew wccks, pernaps aays, irom oaionica ana irom tne western
K$ta trip to Petrograd Undertaken by Lord Kitchener, upon which ho
He, was probably- intimately connected with this powerful effort of the
fetEntente to simultaneously, attack the Central Powers on all fronts.
pfcre; of the Germans to take Verdun when the reduction of the fortress
lave meant a moral defeat for the Allies, and thcir'failure to overthrow
ffns of the Entente Powers are better emphasized by the Russian and
pi olfensivcs.
Stile blockade of the Greek ports, the demands the Allies have mnde upon
e uu me ucmooiuzauon oi xne ureeK army urougnt aoout oy tne Allies
IfiTC. ipnd pnlnr in in Violinf flint: nnntno nnivnftil Afixm nnninnl U rinnnl
Kffjl "" "' "" """" "- ..-... 1.-..o.-. .,, utiuiiioi, tuu uuiinai
tisaoout to start from the iialkans.
PENNSYLVANIANS
AT ST. LOUIS WILL
PUSH HARMONY
Entire Party United Behind
Woodrow Wilson for a
Second Term
"HE WILL EAT THEM UP"
BANS ROUT AND PURSUE
TRIMS NEAR CZERNOWITZ
PETROCinAD. Juno 12.
MqwIMe rout of tho Austrian armies
QMntOwltz wnl nnnnilnnod hem tfvlnv
g.WM OfflC.
Kwr)r and ammunition, were cap-
RSusslans are In full pursuit, tlio Coa-
ftranning me territory at tlio rear
E,wi nrmiya.
ro-Hungarlan front In Bukowina
I CwUanKl on Vase Tour. Column Tour
CHE WEATHER
tlVentS In Plllnmrn ctrotnhlnn nil
jjfrora the Middle "West to Oyster
? rnu orougnt about a aym-
H, Condition In iha nlniwl. ...kll.
-v'Miy copioua tears since last
tuunl .f Psycholoeical lightning
?k '" u"OBPnera in tlio Western
Iuii..j ' """ Hiuuuany mi
SiIJm. .been enly cllmlnacil,
fl&nlnth n th? burst ot sunshine
y?Mtnel the entire East today.
tOAST FOR PENNSvt.va jta
W " ntu ("wvery Jn aolar physics
1P0BE ASfl TV, F, CARQTUEHa,
f'JlV. l!' Monday. June 19 and
;?" ."is pe
bMl, - " "'" coot move-
miUnJi " amJ Thundav. irune
'.?. warmer Wtdnrm.iA,. ...i
ZTJ!:1 ..
!( i. ,iT, 7. '"" "no si
R5"S"
rs&tt x jov.
tei?4foOP
? o7e ,:" tw .-. M ic
Shiver, "kJFSLV .
"T nlaht . -'tfinp iu ae
f ""' ftuJue, 0) (h9 vmted.
W'soa .nn., . .
LT. - -. "vy.
SSKW WMSP
k7i7ViJ."la ana vtcmitu d..i.
'Want and Tundku, t-'T-
mZ.tn & WU
MRS. WELSH BOUGHT 45
DRESSES IN 6 MONTHS,
HER HUSBAND ALLEGES
Charles N. Welsh, in Divorce
Suit Reply, Also Denies Im
proper Relations With .
Manicurist
ASSAILS WIFE'S LAWYER
Ht AND powro
fefuarja fS'SreiriS
mr w-jfer-RMi7i
Charles N. Welsh filed his formal answer
today In the divorce suit brought by his
wife, Mrs. Helen Gallatin Welsh. In which
suit she named Miss Kdna JlcCluro. who
was a manicurist In a Broad street hotel.
The action halted argument bofore
Judges McMIchael and Davis on the rule
taken by Mrs. Welsh for an allowance of
JCOOQ monthly alimony and a fee of $10,000
for her counsel, The argument will be re
sumed Monday. ,
Mr, Welsh Iq his answer claims that the
amount asked Is excessive and cites as "ex
travagance" on the, part of Mrs. Welsh tho
following;
"Between September 2B, 1915, nnd April
14, 1916, she purchased from one dress
maker alone' 4? dresses nncr suits nnd' had
12 others altered at a cost of more than
17200.
"I always provided for her liberally, but
never taught her extravagance. She had
been married and divorced before I met
her1 and had had years of experience In
learning tho value of inuney. She has
arbitrarily refused to let tho children visit
me oyon temporarily,"
In another part of Ills answer to his
wife's accusations, Mr, Welsh Btates that
his net yearly income s about $112,000.
Again MrrWelsh says;
"This action for divorce against me has
been brought through unfounded jealousy
and the name of an innocent young woman
has been naedlessly dragged Into It. "The
sworn answer filed denied any Improper re
latlons with her,
In his answer he accuses Thoma rtidg.
way, attorney for 'Mrs. Welsh, of "legal
blackmail," He says; '
"J was willing to paw Thomas R.idgway
110,000.- but Mr. JUdgway would not
wait a final determination of the suit, but
many times demanded an Immediate pay
ment of the 110,000, which was refused;
whereupon he threatened that unless the
S10.000 was forthcoming at once he would
glve the case to the newspapers. When his
repeated thrudts fauea to get uie jjo.uuu,
he did clve the case to the newspapers
both of Philadelphia and New York, and,
as I am Informed, instructed the llbellant
to give detailed interviews to newspaper
reporters. To obtain a fee by such methods
I believe to be nothlug less than legahblack
mall, Ife now demands n fee of 10,000 on
account, although the only ptofessional
gervlne rendertd by blm tn this case is to
By EDMUND C. TAYLOR
A'vciifiio J.cilaer Staff Correspondent
ST. LOUIS, June 12. Tho Pennsylvania
Democrats, Rounding tho lteynoto of har
mony that will prevail at tho convention
that will nomlnato Woodrow Wilson for a
second term ns President of tho United
States, will arrive In St. Louis at 1:35
o'clock this afternoon.
On board will bo former Old Guard lead
ers and sons of former pld Guard lenders,
who have fought the present Democratic
leadership In Pennsylvania to a standstill.
"Joo" Guftoy, son of Colonel Guffey, of
Pittsburgh, and William J. Urennen, of
Pittsburgh, will be among tho Old Guard
leaders who will step from the special train
at tho Union Station. On tho same train
will bo A. Mitchell Palmer, National Com
mitteeman from Pennsylvania, and other
rcorganlzers to whom Guffey and Drcnncn
have1 sworn allegiance In the presidential
flgh't this year.
The Pennsylvania delegation, according
to national Democratic leaders already
gathered hero, will sound and reflect the
harmony that will pervade tho convention.
The entire party will bo united behind
Woodrow Wilson for a second term, and
tho only flare-ups that aro oxpected will
como from tho contest for tho vice Presi
dential nomination and the Injection of tho
opposition of William Jennings Bryan Into
tho deliberations of the convention. "Tom"
Taggart, of Indiana, who Is engineering
the campaign of "Tim" Sullivan for tho
VIco Presidential nomination against Mar
shall, arrived hero last night and Imme
diately got busy among tho national leaders
and committeemen already on tho Job.
Tho Pennsylvania delegation will stop at
tho Delway and tho Plaza Hotels, uptown.
Tholr headnunrters will bo nt the Plaza,
which is tho only temperance hotel In St.
Louis.
The first Pennsylvania delegate arrived
last night. He arrived Just in time to con
fidently predict tho defeat of Hughes next
November. "Wilson will eat him up," he
taid,
Tho delegato was Colonel W. M. Falrman,
of Punxsutawney. He has attended national
conventions for the last 30 years, and wild
today that this convention looks more like
harmony than any ho had attended.
Word Is being whispered nroung among
the delegates that an organized effort
should bo niado.to bring about a union be
tween the Democrats und tho disgruntled
Progressives, as tho result of Colonel llooso
velt's message of last Friday.
Pennsylvania suffragists, flushed by their
victories nt Chicago, arrived hero last night,
ready to fight for a suffrago plank in tho
Democratic platform.
HUGHES, QUIZZED
' ON OUTLOOK, SAYS
"IT IS A FINE DAY"
Few Recognize Nominee as
He Arrives in New
York
MAY MEET THE COLONEL
Falls in Street, Dies in Hospital
Stricken with hemorrhages on the street(
near Frankford avenuo and Meadows street
yesterday, William Thompson, 30, of 4330
Frankford avenue, died In the Frankford
Hospital.
SnV YOntC, Juno 12. Unhernldcd,
Charles Evans Hughes, Republican presiden
tial nominee, arrived hero from Washington
this morning for Important political con
ferences. While here, Mr. Hushes will meet tho
Special Convention Committee, headed by
W. Murray Crane, which Is to fix tho time
nnd place of his ofllclal notification.
Gieat Interest was nroused by reports
that Mr. Hughes might hold n conference
with Colonel ltoosevclt before returning
to Washington.
The first plans for Mr. Hughes' campaign
aro now In tho making. They Include tho
selection of a campaign manager, who may
bo Frank Hitchcock, former postmaster
general.
Upon his arrival at tho Hotel Astor, Mr.
Hughes said he would remain in New Yorlt
until "certain matters" were- disposed of.
Ho declined to throw any light Upon tho
nature of theso "(.or! 'In matters." ' The
former Supremo Court Justice camo to
New York on the Baltimore and Ohio Kali
road, leaving Washington at midnight. Few
persons recognized him. On tho train Mr.
Hughes occupied nn ordinary Pullman
berth, while his companions, ex-Publlo
Service Commissioner William G. Wlllcox
and Lawrence Green, his private secretary,
occupied similar ones.
Mr. Hughej carried his own allse. He
woro a long gray overcont and a Panama
hat. IIo walked rapidly through tho station
to tho "3d street ferry.
Fifty detectives had been assigned to
conduct tho presidential nomlneo to his
hotel, but tho movements of Mr. Hughes
QUICK NEWS
MISS BJURSTEDT RETAINS TENNIS TITLE
Miss Molla Bjursteclt won the women's nntionnl tennis cham
pionship by defeating Mrs. Edward Raymond of the West Side Tennis
Club, of Long Island, at the Philadelphia Cricket Club this afternoon.
Miss Bjurstcdt completely outclassed Mrs. llaymond, winning by tho
scores of 0 to 0 nnd 0 to 1. It required only 20 minutes to complete
the match,
MONTREAL RACING RESULTS
First race, 2-year-olds, 4 1-2 furlongs aptnin B., 114, Warring
ton, $340, $2.30 and out, won; Britannia, 10 7, Ambrose, $2.40 and
out, second Bavarde, 104, Koblnson, out, third. lime, :5G 2-0.
BELMONT RACING RESULTS
First race, selling, 2-ycar-olds, $500, 5 furlongs straight IUver
dalc, 112, Kolscy, O to 10, 1 to 3 and out, won; Kathryn Gray, 108,
ball, 7 to 2, 0 to 5 and 1 to 2, second; Itebcl, 102, Warrschcr, 15 to 1,
0 to 1 and 0 to 2, third. Time, 1:1-5.
TURKS ANNIHILATE 1000 COSSACKS
CONSTANTINOPLE, Juno 12. One thousand cossaclcs were an
nihilated in an engagement near Schcndhian in Mesopotamia, the War
Ol'ticc aunouueed toduy.
ACTON DAVIES, DRAMATIC CRITIC, DEAD
CHICAGO, Juno 12. Acton Davles, for 20 years dramatic editor of the New
York Kvenlng Sun, nnd one of tlio loading critics of the country, died In Lakcvlew
Hospital hero today. Ho had been 111 for a week of rheumatism of tho heart. He
was a natlvo of St. Johns, Quebec. Ho had n country home at Athol, Mnlss.
BATTLESHIP PENNSYLVANIA IN COMMISSION
NORFOLK, Vn June 12.- While banners of tho Teutonic Allies and tho Stars
and' Stripes fluttered from tlio forepeaks of tho Interned German cruisers Eltel
Friodrlch und Kronprlnz Wilhelm, tho giant battleship Pennsylvania, Uncle Sam's
newest and biggest scaflBhtcr, was placed In commission at tho navy yard tdtlay.
Tho Pennsylvania will remain here Until hor nrmament la adjusted.
1
SUPREME COURT RULES AGAINST STATE OP VIRGINIA
WASHINGTON, June 12. Tho United. States Supremo Court today denied the
petition of the State of Virginia to levy execution for a $12,000,000 Judgment against
tho Stnto of West Virginia. The court held that Virginia must wait to enforce Its
collection until after tho Loglslnturo-'of West Virginia convenes and has sufficient
time to act on tho claim. Tho debt dates back to the separation of tho two States
at the time of the Civil War.
(EPT COUNTRY
AT PEACE, PLEA
OF DEMOCRATS
No Party Has Monopoly on
Patriotism, Also Cam-
paign Slogan
"NO NEED OP APOLOGIES"
Convention Will Lino Up Behind
Every Step President Wil
son Has Taken
Continued on lfnso Tno, Column Six
MRS. ROOSEVELT DEE-LIGHTED
THAT THE COLONEL HAS QUIT
Smiles Happily nnd Chats Like Girl, on
Morning Rido
OYSTER BAY, N. Yl, Juno 12 Mrs.
Theodore Itooseve.lt is d-e-e-e-o-e-llghted !
She hopes It's truo that her husband Is
"out of politics."
Sho looked llko tho happiest woman In
tho world by the Colonel's side ns they
started out for a horsebnek ride across
country from Sagamoro Hill today. She
was smiling nnd laughing and chatting
llko a schoolgirl.
It Is an open secret among her friends
that she has never reveled In tho lime
light, nor has sho always been reconciled
to dlvldo the Colonel so liberally with tho
publlo nB politics demanded.
Recently tho Colonel has ridden ahead
nnd Bho behind. Today they rode sldo by
side. Roosevelt did not appear very talk
ative. IIo declined to 'see reporters.
According to a story given out today, the
ex-Piesldent would have accepted tho Bull
Moose nomination but for an earnest ap
peal made to him by his wife.
HUGHES OUT, BRANDEIS
GETS NEW COURT SEAT
Arrangement Shifted in Tribunal
Following Resignation of
Candidate
A
WASHINGTON. Juno 12. When the Su
preme Court met today for its last decision
day, there was a general rearrangement of
tho seating of ihe Justices, due to the
'resignation of Charles' Evans Huglies.
Justice Vandevanter took the chair for
merly occupied by Hughes; Justice Bran
dels, who occupied the chair at the extreme
left of the Chief Justice for one brief day,
was moved to the extreme right of Chief
justice White Into tho scat formerly held
by Justice. Mclteynolds.
On the right of Chief Justtco White now
sit Justices McKonna, Day, Pitney and
Brandels in the order named. On his left
are Justices Holmes, Vandevanter, McRey
nolds, leaving a vacancy at the extreme left
for Hughes' successor.
The "moving up'' of Justice Brandels his
second day on the bench is said to bo a
court. The court assigned Justice Brandels
to preside over the second Judicial circuit.
MEXICANS SCARE PICNICKERS
Armed Bandits Make pash Across Line
Near El Paso
J3U PASO, Tex., June .18 five armed
and mounted Mexicans rode across tho Rio
Grande in the suburbs of El Paso yester
day afternoon, shoved pistols Intq ihe faces
of the members of a picnic party on thJ
American side, cursed them, nnd afti- re
leasing to the Mexican side, fired volleya
at the picnic party Nq one was bit.
United States troops are Investigating to
day. - -,-., .,,
MAN BURNS TO DEATH
IN PAINT PLANT FIRE
DR. MAX MINOR PEET TO QUIT U. OF P.
Dr. Max Minor Peet, of tho Department of Research Surgery, University of
Pennsylvania, today severed hl3 connection of five years in that work, to take effcect
July 1. Doctor Peet will return to Michigan, whero he has been tendered a posi
tion as instructor In surgery at the University of Michlgnn, his alma mater. Mrs.
Ij. V. Peet, of Ypsllantl, Michlgnn, mother of Doctor Peet, is visiting her son at
his home, 4108 Baltimore avenue.
BRITISH EMBASSY ANNOUNCES BLOCKADE OF GREECE
WASHINGTON, Juno 12. The British Embassy here today announced a tight
ening of tho Allies' blockade around Greece, which will force all goods from America
to pass the most careful jcrutlny before being admitted to Grecian ports. Tho
consuls aro instructed to Inform American exporters that their goods will not be
permitted to pass tho blockndo unless "genuinely for neutral consumption."
AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION MEETS IN DETROIT
DETROIT, Mich., June 12. Detiolt becamo the medical centre of tho country
today, when tho C7tli annual convention of the American Medical Association opened
with tlio first meeting of tho House of Delegates, the legislative branch of the
organization. Dr. Alexander It. Cralgh, of Chicago, secretary, reported an lncreaso
of 2300 In the membership of the association, bringing the total to 78,301.
Another Believed Dead in Spec
tacular Blaze at George D.
Wetherill Works
One man was burned to death, and It Is
believed that another lost his life In a
spectacular (Iro which early today destroyed
the whiting plant of the George O. Weth
erill Paint Works at Harold and Mojer
btreets.
Tho body taken from tho rulmi was
Identified as that of William Farren, 2319
Harold street. The eyeglasses of David
Gordon, of Tulip and Somerset streets,
were found, and the supposition Is that he
also perished In the flames. Both men,
according to the police, often slept In the
paint works.
Policeman McIIughes, of the Trenton
avenue and Dauphin street station, and
Captain John Clyde, of the Insurance Pa
trol, rescued, IB horses from the stable of
tjie paint works. Captain Clyde was palni
fully Injured when one of the horses step
ped -of Ills right foot,1 crushing it. He
was taken to the Episcopal Hospital.
One fireman was Injured last night when
names swept the three-story warehouse
and dwelling: of Morris Saffean, at Darlen
and Rltner streets, causing A loss estimated
at about flSOO.
The fireman injured was Robert Du3ne,
of the 10th and Wharton streets station.
His fce and hands were cut by glass; Jn
breaking his; way throukh a second-story
window Saffean was at dealer In paper,
bags, twin HBdpUiec (JoriniodtUe3,
SUPREME COURT RULES ON SAFETY BRAKE APPLIANCES
WASHINGTON, June 12. The tiupreme Court today decided tho Federal safety
uppliance regulations relating to brakes apply to electric as well as steam railroads
operating In Interstate commerce, In alllrmlng a verdict of $7500 In favor of Edgar
E. Campbell, Injured motorman of (he Spokane and Inland Railroad Company, who
figured In a collision between Spokane, AVnsh., and Cocur d'Alene, Ida., In which 18
persons were killed.
SEVEN LOST ON SHIP SUNK BY MINE
COPENHAGEN, June 12. Tho Swedish steamship Joy was sunk off Falsterbo
by a mine today. Two women and five men were drowned. The rest of tho crew
were saved,
RADICAL ELECTED ARGENTINA PRESIDENT
BUENOS AIRES, June 12. Hipollto Irlgoyen was chosen President of the
Argentine Republic today by the Electoral College, being the first radical who ever
reached the Argentine presidency. Pelagla Luna was chosen as Vice President.
The election of Irlgoyen follows the bitterest political struggle In the history of
the Argentine. Until this year, the Argentine radicals have never been a united
political force. Several of tho larger States have hod strong, radical governments,
but tn Federal affairs tho conservative element dominated. u
By JOHN EDWIN NEVIN
ST. LOUIS, Juno 12. "No party has a
monopoly on patriotism 1
"Tho Democracy has kept tho nation out
of war. It should bo retained In power I"
Theso nro the twin slogans for tho com
ing national campaign.
Tho vanguard of tho Democratic hosts
who plan to renominate President Wilson
was streaming Into St. Louis today,
Tho natlonnl committeemen from ths
East havo made It plain to their colleagues
from tho West and South that tho nomina
tion of Justice Hughes means that tho
party will have to keep a solid front and
bo ready for a much more carefully planned
lino ot nttack than w.ib confronted four
years ago. Theso committeemen continue
to express confidence that Colonel Rooso
volt will maintain his position of refusing
to run nt tho head of tho Progressive
ticket even though ho shall eventually do
cldo not to support tho candldncy of
Justice Hughes.
So far ns tho suffrago nnd prohibition
questions nro concerned tho Resolutions
Commltteo will permit lengthy hearings on
them, and will try to get tho unanimous
agreement from tho committee. About the
only ray of hope that tho Democratic lead
ers could see for something coming up
which would glvo them a fight was that
never before In tho past records of the
party havo so many Democrats gotten to
gether under one roof without starting
something.
SOME SUSPICIOUS OF BRYAN.
Somo o tho party leaders hero were In
clined to bellevo that Colonel William Jen
nings Bryan might nssumo tho rolo of
Jupiter. But they frankly hoped that he
would not. "The fact that Bryan will not
roach town until tomorrow, If 'his present
plans aro adhered to, makes most of thO
anti-Bryan leaders suspicious. They Inti
mated that they feared he "had a hen on,"
and that "something was going to be pulled
off," '
The Democratic leaders have comnletelr
mapped out their plans. Word has been
passed down tho lino to attack In every
way posslblo the attempt by tho Republi
cans to monopolize the preparedness and
America first Issues. Every speakor will
bo expected to follow this line. Tho slash
ing attack upon tho Administration will bo
repudiated. It will be, insisted that America
Is pledged to make every effort to adjust
all questions In dispute with other nations
by diplomacy. Tho Bryan peaco treaties
and tho records of tho country will bo
cited to show that this Is a truly American
policy. By negotiating with Germany In
stead of Immediately breaking off diplo
matic relations following the sinking ot tho
L,usltnnln tho President acted wisely, the
Canllnuril on race Two, Column Twn
WILSON, IN FIRM NOTE,
TO REFUSE CARRANZA'S
DEMANDS THIS WEEK
Message to Mexican Chief Will
Be Sent Before St. Louis Con
vention New Raids to
Be Cited
U. S. SOLDIER WOUNDED
JAPAN SENDS MORE TROOPS TO CHINA
TOKIO, Juno 12. The Japanese Government Is sending two more battalions
of troops to Ten-Tsln and PeUln, It was learned today,
NORWEGIAN SHIP SUNK BY MINE
ROTTERDAM, Juno 12. The Norwegian steamship Bure has been sunk by a
mine off Dogger Bank, with tho loss of one life.
BRITISH WARSHIP SEIZES DUTCH SHIP'S MAIL
BERLIN (via Sayville wireless), June 12. The Djrtch Bteamshlp Reljnat, bound
from Amsterdam to the Indies, has been held up by. a British warship and all her
mall seized, says a dispatch to tho Overseas News Agency today.
!
i
GERMANY'S LOSSES NEARLY 3,000,000, BRITISH SAY
I)NPON, Juno 12. Germany, up to tho end of May, had lost 2,924,688 soldiers,
of whom 734,412 were killed, according to a British official tabulation of the German
casualty lists Just given out here. The compilation does not Include German losses
in naval engagements or In the fighting tn tho German colonies. The British state-.
mnt quotes tho .German official casualty lists for May as placing the German losses
in killed, prisoners and wounded at JQ?,507. This number, (t Is pointed out, brings
tne German total losses, exclusive of naval and colonial casualties, to 2,924,589.
WASHINGTON, June 12. Evidence
of preparation for an extended cam
paign in .Mexico was seen today in
orders to the first battalion of engineers
to proceed from Washington barracks
here to the border. The battalion, con
sisting of Companies A, B, C and D,
commanded by .Major William P.
Wooten, will report to General Funs
ton at San Antonio immediately and be
assigned to duty.
SAN ANTONIoTtcx., June 12--Lieutenant
Colonel Waterman, of Ha
chita, N. M., today reported to Major
General Frederick Funston that Mexi
can bandits attacked a patrol of threo
men from Troop K, 12th United States
cavalry, on Saturday night and wounded
Private Lee W, Sanders.
SAN ANTONl67Tex., June 12. T.
A. Coleman at Corpus Christ! today
telegraphed to Major General Funston
that there was no truth in the report
that Mexicans had raided his Hidalgo
ranch.
WASHINGTON, ' June 12. The Prest
dent's answer to the latest Carranza not
demanding troop withdrawal or "explana
tion ot their presence In view of their pres
ent idleness" win go to the first Chief thJ4
ween oeioro ne is repommaiea at
Louis.
The note, which Is lengthy, will Dolltl
but tlatly refuse a withdrawal or even a
rearrangement of American troops, it was
virtually completed today.
Among reasons cited for not withdrawing
troops now. the President wljl emphasise
the fact that the murderers of Americans
at Santa Ysabel not only have not been
punished, but havo not been apprehended,
It will also recite recent rqtda on American
soil
Umphails also w(U be lata oa recentJjf
received consular reports thai the bitUiUf H,
In northern Mrxlco requires American
troops Uiero In view of the attitude ot tfce '
natives toward all foreigners as well ti.3
Americans. ,
t
' St
i.'a
ii.
"M
suimimwatMfoimB!.
mmt
