ALJBI QUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
THWTY-SEVENTII
17SAR.
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Monday, June 12, 1916.
Giurr CRUISER
Iall by Carrier or Mail, flrtt
Month. Hlngl C!op4e, U
LIFTED BODILY
OUT OF ITER
1 EXPLOSION
THE WEATHER
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Denver, Colo., .June 11. New Mex
ico: Monday mikI Tuesday generally
lair, except thunder showers north
east portion Monday ulternoon or
night. cooler east portion.
at
High Sea Officer
Thrilling Description
of Recent Naval Engage
merit Off Danish Coast,
German
Gives
local weather report.
For twenty-four hours, ending:
0 p. m. yesterday:
Maximum temperature, HI degrees;
minimum, 4S cii-icrt'cs; range, -l;i ile
grees; temperature a( (i p. in., iiS de
grees; southwest wind; lear.
ANOTHER SHIP BLASTED
IN FOUR MINUTES
Stricken
Runs
Enemy Vessels; Blows Up!,y 'I0 tome.io mtuc.
J ,. ,, il)S the night, that they were
upposue rounn,
era, a small navy of armored crullers,
scouts and destroyers, und paid a com
paratively low price fur our victory.
And then tin; childish excuse tlmt
the British main fleet wan not en-
I -gaged und that we ran to avoid meet
ing it, The fncts speak tor them
selves. Admiral Jclllcoe, with his
swifter dreadnaughts all ut least two
knots faster, und a number capable of
making twenty-five knots, could, If ho
wished, have overtaken our fleet, com
pelled to accommodate its pace to the
slowest squadron on that di,y or the
next morning, for our fleet returned
'I to it a bane, only during the course of
I the next forenoon. Our officers be-
licved the fact that he did not do so
British Man-o'-wanwu-s bt!caus th'- P'-iusn were ho
Uiiuaii man V vval sliaken (not demoralized, for the lint
Gantlet Of Three i,st'1 arC l,ruvc' tt00d sailors), by their
"""'T -1 uuu u.tlllUKf, iiliu IIU.1 UCUiai jy
cks dur-
unwlli-
ing to continue the action.
I "Cine of the aims ot naval strategy
' Is to inflict the heaviest loss possible
WTHoMiMjc.umtiinciALi.uinmm and ke' one is 'n lot to a tnini
Jicrlin, June 11 (From un Associated inum. We were successful In this
rrsii Correspondent, by WirclesR to .'iesplte the British attempts to magnl
Sayvllle.) A graphic! story of the na- Ify our losses. The German report of
Mil battle off the Jutland coast, re-'our losses is complete. I myself saw
piete with tributes to the bravery of all the battleships of the Kaiser c!a.-s,
England's sailors and to tho coolness !of which the. British pretended to
and devotion of the German blue-(have destroyed two, safe in harbor."
jackets In the memorable engagement, I
has been given to the Associated Press QAKITA rr pAMPAMV
correspondent by a high sea officer ;OMI1 I M I L OUIVimiil IO
of the German admiralty stuff
Intel access to all the reports.
To the correspondent's first ques
tion; "What are the facts about the
Warsplte-?" the big battleship whose
loss the Gorman officers affirm and
the British deny, the officer said
.says Warsplte Was lost.
"The Warspito certainly was lost, i
We have this on not only known ob
servations, but what is more import-
B it, tne testimony oi Jiritlsn sailors. , wtll continue through the next week
tne nrst connrmation came when a Marry T Horring, adlutant general of
destroyer of our third flotilla fiched , ttu K"Uiin, made a statement today in
out of the water a sailor from the;whi(;h nP denied published reports
British destroyer Turbuient, who said i mt Npw M(,xU. iM attempting to
hu himself had observed the sinking J tain recruits from citizens' training
of the Wursiiite. Later on two other ( camps in the southwest and olnted
eallors gave the same account, al-!olt that recruits are arriving t'ally
though nono of the three ivus together ! from throughout the state,
titter the rescue and each was iiues- j Reports today from Gen. J. J. Por
tioned separately. This .should beiahinii expeditionary commander at
RIO T RAIDERS
CHASED ACROSS
BORDER BY U. S.
CAVALRY T 00
Mexican Outlaws Drive Off
Eighty Horses From Texas
Ranch, but Do No Other
Damage,
tlonnls other Own Amerlemis, ex
pUiniot? that he uiflie-i to know them
In Older In afl'orif them protectinn:
t lint he would be Kind to jitfortl pro
u'l tUm to Americans :is well, but that
111 view of the inerensinsr untasoiiisin
by Mexicans, he regarded i' as prac
tically Impossible to do so.
It became known today tlmt only
the withdrawal of Colonel Sibley s
force that entered Mexico after the
raid at Ulenn NprinM, prevented It
from beiUK attacked by ('nrrunza.
troops. Army ot'lleei i hen- have
learned that a force of t .000 troops
bad been sent northward with orders
from the governor of Conhiilla to net
In contact with the American troops
and force thctn out of Mexico.
TKKVIXO IlKI'tlHATKS
CAVIIU'S PHOM1SKS
PURSUIT CONTINUED
ON FOREIGN SOIL
How far American Soldiers
Have Penetrated Into For
eign Territory Has Not Yet
Been Reported,
Kan Antonio, Tex., June It. What
Is regarded by American army offi
cers as otficlal repudiation of the
atrrtimcnt entered into by Generals
V'orshlnjf and tiavira, was contained
in a curt rnessaKo from General Ja
cinto Trcvlno to General 1'ersbiiiK. In
forming him that General Gavini had
no authority to discuss military Sub
jects with him. General Pershing
sent a copy of Gener il Trevlno's ines
vagc) to department headquarters.
Kl'SXTON STANDS lAT
OV XrIT 1-ntSllTS
-hoi MUSTERED INTO SERVICE
I rV UODNIM JOUftMAL SnCIAI. LIAtKB WtRCl
i Columbus, N. M June ll.Com
j pany K of the New Mexico national
! ciiarrt ft Kantn nriranizallon. was
! mustered into the Vnited States serv-
' ice today with a full peace comple
ment of sixty-five men and officers.
i Lieut. ). f. lirunzell, musteriiifr of-
; ficer, asserted mustering probably
Colonla Dublan, indicated quiet every-
onn in i icTftc
UUU V ILLIu I ru
OVERWHELMED
nil nr n n h nnn
j ti! btm. tiHiiu
ICarranza's Men Disperse Band j&.war
conclusive.
The 'orrespondent. asked how the i w here aloujj the American line of
Indiv idual ships were destroyed. j communication,
"it is difficult to Blve definite re- -
suits in all cases," the officer respond- !
el, "owlnjf to the rnnges, the thick I
weather, and tne fact that few offi
cers on a board a ship in 'action have
the tim or wool .o.iijty tor'stteh de
tails. Here, however, is the istory of
tho destruction, of one of the British
battle cruisers, probably the Queen
Mui'y or the IndcfutiKahlt, as told to
ine by an officer who witnessed ii:
The I .'ml of a Giant.
"It was during an early stage of the
action of the battle cruisers that my
friend saw the warship struck square
ly la quick succession by three full j
snivos or heavy shells. The way sil
houette, low on the water line, quiv
ered from the shock as the first two
salvos hit it. At the third, the cruiser
seemed literally to crumble up and
bend amidships. The bow and the
stern rose und the whole ship was
lifted bodily out of the water. A ter
rific explosion had blotted her out. iind
uhe sank, icuvingr no tract- behind.
"The destruction of several other
cruisers occurred .similarly. A shell
would reach the magazine. Then
would come a nilhty puff of smoke
und flame and the brief death agony
of the war craft would be over al
most before one beun to notiee.it.
Ik'HtroycU in I 'our MinuU-H.
"One of the most thrilling episodes
as the destruction of a big four-fun-fclea
armored cruiser, which ran
Kiuarely under the suns of our battle- i
'hips during the pit!ht and was an
nihilated within four minutes by our I
flreadnaughts steaming in column. In
Hiteny darkness, with lights out
cruiser approached at. right angles
under full speed, evidently unaware
of the presence of the squadron. She 1
was sighted at a distance of l.r.(it) i
V.'tra .....I 1 a ..it i...
iioiu the leading German ship, the jwth a ,,., it waa Biud, of attack
vwatialtiii sho ran on another 500 ; ming properties in I'arral. Gen
jards and Hien turned like a wound- j ,,ral R,.imos and Gen. Juelntu Hernan
f'J hare, Imt instead of nirikins away, !dt,z headinff strong constitutionalist
Peered i a course parallel to the col-1 ,.oluml)s were dispatched to break
'.i'1'" .varuH oisiani. leceivoiw
Todav s renorts said tnat me oun-
WashinKton, June 11, Secretary
Baker said tonight that there hail
been no change in General Kunslon's
ordero to pursue bandits into Mexico,
and he presumed the border com
Inlander was taklnit ubutever Mteos
i j f necessary to deal with the situation at
San Manuel. A the war department
ii,ulMwuNi.inoiLi.Moi WU!t cloying for the night the secre
ian Antonio, Tex., June 11. -Mexl- tary .j official dispatches dcalinn
can ouiuiua ramiHi uie i.uieman ranrn with the reported raid had been re
about twenty-five miles northwest of celved.
Laredo last nisht, and were driven I
back across the border todav by a1
troop of the Fourteenth cavalry under
('apt, Ola W. Bell. The bandits drove
off eighty horses, but did no damago
to the ranch property.
Tho raid was reported to headquar-
..... uj ... u i 4., ami t. l n iiv .
is In cbattre of the situation. It is i
expected he will sond reinforcements
to Captain Boll, who is without puck
train or supplies. How far into Mex
ico he has cone is not known at head
quarters. The raid was first reported
to General Funston by T. A. fob-man
of tit n Antonio, owner of the rsvh, !
who Is in I'ort Aransas on a fishing: '
trip. Verification came from Captain!
j American Refugees from Chi
.
two cowboys m:min'Fi
C'APTl Ki;i IN HMD
ALL IS READ!
ji'Mlie
be p
. I. lilies i
I'lnaiO'iil
TO RENOMINATE
WILSON ID RIS
.RUII MATE
tomorrow.
f Kentucky, who H to
chairman, arc expected
pki siii:t Ai'pian i s
DF.MOt It M IC PUTH)KM
Delegates Already Arriving in f 'personal representatives
. . i convention.
'bt. Louis to Put Through
Cut-and-dried Party Program,
SOME OPPOSITION
FOR VICE PRESIDENT
Favorite Sons' Names,
ever, Will Soon
drawn in Favor of Present
Incumbent,
BORDER CROWS
! ii iniurn nurn !
Hmn v lu uvtn
I HOSTILE SIGNS
Washington, June II. l'resldent
Wilson today put his final approval on
1 Inns for the democratic national con
vention at St. 1 ,011 Is. After attending
church with Mrs, Wilson In the inom
Iiik, be spent the afternoon and even
Ihk conferring with democratic lead
ers. Secretary Baker, who will be a del
eRale lo the convention, saw the presi
dent twice and hudley Field Mulone,
collector of customs at New York,
nl conferred with him. Secretary
Baker will leave for St. Imis tomor
row niyht and will be one of the pre
at the
(invention.
The Mexican plank In the demo
cratic platform Is Kivinfc administra
tion officials some concern, because
of the continued uncertainty of the
situation, and the possibility that it
will vanKe before the election. It
was understood today that the plunk
will emphasize the policy of the pres
ident of Interfering us little as possi
ble In the Internal affairs of Mexico.
Although the president planned to
select a chairman for the democratic
national convention before the con-
t'.mtl.in h l.rwl nr. n. W 1 11 In.l
HOW-1 toniKht. Homer CumminRS, national
D it(i,i , o i o 1 , 1 1 1. 1 . HI n 1 1 lli'iu VUlldvriH'ia aiiu
uC W ltn i Vit-r chairman of the committee, ap
peared to be the most likely choice.
The present Intention of the presi
dent Is not to make any speeches, In
addition to tho address he will deliver
Tuesday at West I'oint und here Wd
nesduv. Ho already has accepted In
vitations to speak in New York June
30 and here July 4, at the dedication
of the new headquarters of the Amer
ican Federation ot Labor. He prob
ably will also ko to Detroit early In
July and to l'hiladelphia June 2D, for
meetings of udvertislnp men.
RUSSIANS TAKE
35,000 CAPTIVES
IN OPERATIONS
lT MOSMIH iOUN4L iMr.ul LfOlO ,
Ht. Louis. June 11. 'Forerunners of
tho 1,092 delegates who are to noml
jnate President Wilson and Vice Presi
dent Marshall at the democratic na
tional convention this week, moved
into St. 1-ouls with the alofran of
Peace, Prosperity and Preparedness."
The convention holds it first session at
noon Wednesday.
A content over nix seats from the
District of Columbia, in the conven
tion, will be taken up at a meetlnir of
t.r. miuui l JUt KtLIJUIMI COITUIHIieO iO-l,,i ,
..w.i.rn. .. V..... l. ........I.. Ill ..I.... : MiailOW
ii.v'.ii.w, nurn , ur ijtii, 1 1 1 1 1.O"- W,i llinMI -.!...l..
t...,x ..,,......., .......... ... .... I
'"M-ir . yjt i mini r a i.T un oif ioj- ; r.A.-n
tlonal committee, one from Texas and ;GUUD ROADS CREW
one irom me instrici or Columbia.
Thomas Love is contestiiiK the seat or
j William Poindexter of Texas, and four
democratic clubs In Washington, D.
jC., are contesting the selection of!
;Johu F. Cost.-llo, as commilteeman.
OF SINGLE DAY
Among Austrian Prisoners
Bagged on Colhynian and
Galician Fronts, 409 Are
Officers,
108,000 MEN SEIZED
DURING PRESENT DRIVE
One of Czar's Armies Alone
Accounts for 18,000 in
Twenty-four Hours; Much
Booty Gathered in,
l.r M..NIH. u,Bu ,etM. tM. w,,
From the wooded recion of south
west Russia to th Rumanian frontlor
i tho KusHlann are keeplnir up their
j tremendous offensive asainst the Aus
I tro-lIuiiKarlnns who have been rein-
mi. w-iia.... nmhiiiiu .. in ,mnii.A el, i on several sectora bv (Jermnns.
official notification of his renomina- Tho advance of the Husslans la not
tlou at Shadow Lawn, the estate he ut,llV'"r lhe 1,ir number of prison
has taken for the summer in New ''J" "ken and the enormous Cupture
Jersey. Although he nlnns tn remain "f BlinH. machine guns, ammunition
In Washington until roiiKress Hd.1ourns "l,J 0,h,'r 'r Htres. In the week that
ho nrohablv will muke a brTef visit toi""'. P'apsed siuco they Tlrst threw
Lawn for the occasion.
iheir attacks HBaiiiBt the Austrian,
jthe Kussimis report that they have
j captured approxinintcly 10X.0OO offi
uers and men and forced back the or-
io mtiirrnnrn "n,H neir antagonists rrom
lb I KANbrhnntU 'be renlon of the Voihyntan fortr
i ' i triunule to ltumanla.
Iti'tako Pubno.
i
huahua City Report They'(
were Hooted at by Natives
Trcvino Is Pessimistic,
1CIAL COflniPOHDNCa TO MOBNIM JOURNAIj ,
ISanta Fe, June 11 The koo,1 roads i llavin? previously captured Lutsk
i crew- which was ut work nt Madrid. I "' ittissuuis now have retaken DuU-
l:ci-jthliiK oiled mid K'-wly, ' southern yanta Fe lounty, whs moved'"0. Oio second of the fortresses in the
Kvery one of thu delemites to the ,v esterday to Ihe Tesuinie-l'ojoaqiie "H'ynlan triant! e held by tho Aua
oiivention either is instructed for or 'stretch of the Simla Fo-Tao roud in I trlans and aro pressing the retreatlns
Laredo, Tex., June 11.- Two Anier
can cowboys, George Connover and
Arthur Myers, are said to have been
e:l ,it ii fe.l nnd enerieil riff In tin. rul.l
on the Johnson and Coleman ranch j ... , ., . ,
early today. IjHer the Americans! lA 1 "s"' 1 ,l "easiness as
were released and reached Palafox, to thf results of Hie anti-American
Tex., today. jnFitatlon in Chihuahua was manifest
Luis do la Hosa, notorious bandit jn most every quarter here and in
lender, is said to have been with the , ,,. ,,, . ,
party which raided this ranch. Tho J,M1,3! lomKht- n'ty was
Mexicans, said to have numbered flf-; expressed for the down Americans re
teen men, had rounded up a bunch ma iniiq; in Chihuahua City, where n
of horses when they were discovered mrtas me'.t2 of .Jl 1 h,,iivok wm
II... l'..-.n... .....1 lkl....U ..n.l .. MnVC
" '"' '-"." " scheduled to be held todav
lean employe of the ranch, who stam- . , , ......
nerled the animals. '"" I"-"test aK'ulnst the
GeoiKe K. Alexander, lorenmn of 'roops remaining hi Mexico
jthe T. A. Coleman ranch, with three
j men left the ranch at daybreak to-
! 'coinmilled to the reiionilnation of I Santa Fe county.
I day, taking the horses to a pasture at
Webb, Tex. At 7:3d o'clock when
twelve miles from the Bio Grande,
they were attacked from the rear by
Mexicans, who evidently had been fol-
I lowing them. The Mexican rifle fire
I was, too much for the rannchers ad
compelled to take to the the Interior
rrandoninff the horses, which jrrnph lines
ott
ostensl
inerican A niim
arriving K.iid thai.
her of American refugees
from Chihuahua City today
they were hooted by Mexicans at al
most every station on the way to the
border, but that no violence was at
tempt cd.
ensolisliii stricter.
Apparently communications from
over the Mexican tele
havn been more closely
than
(lis-
fit (limflWQ PrPlinrinf tflAt-l"-0 "ltnlus ",:,ao 011 wltn- censored In Ihe last few days
vi vuuixviro i iv,yinif- i Alexander hurriedly rode to Miner.i for
taCK Milling PrOPertieS! I?" r'',.,J,'t',' t;u" lm-"lent to army ot- patches and a few meaner obviously (plants in writt
Pursuit Continues,
President Wilson, and the vast major
ity of them, adoi'dlmr to many na
tional committeemen, are ready to re
name Vice President Marshall. A few
votes are expected to be cast f,,r some
jfavoritcs fur the vice presidential
place, but the party leaders ussem
blliiK here predict the other names
I may be withdrawn and that Marshall's
renoiiiination, like that, of President
Wilson, will be made by acclamation, 1
"We are here to ratify the desire
of the domoeratic party," said Na
tional Committeeman ' Mof.'bmh to
night. "There itiitrht lie a ft(?ht If we
could hold the convention in Kiirope.
it's a certainty there will be no Huht j
here. The prom-am Is all arranged
and thorn should be no hitch," j
Stone ltrliijts rial form,
Senator William J. Htone of Mi;-
ifoiiri arrived totiihl, brlniilnii what
jwas said lo be u draft of the parly
.platform, witli the main planks
Isketcheil In detail by President Wil
son. Senator Stone is slated to bo
chairman of the committee on resolu
tions and It is understood that he and
members of the committee will put
President Wilson's Ideas on certain
(1, MOONINO JOURNAL PKC,AL LiAMD WiM
Chihuahua Cily, June 11. A de
cisive victory over the. SOU Villistas
j who had concentrated in the Rio
p'lorido district, about fifty miles
south of Parral, was reported to mill-
! tary headquarters here today by Lien,
i Ignacio Kamos.
! Only meager details of tho enicage
i ment were contained in the reports,
which said that a battle was fought
i in Lomas do nuena vista yesieruay,
which lasted from daylight until dark
ness and finally resulted in the ban-
',,, '! dits fleeint; brokenly before the Car-
iltliiAinir, nuiuinn,
The outlaws, the remnants of sev-
jeral bands, members of which were
scattered i" the hills by the American
'expeditionary command, began con-
the vicinity of tcosario,
n form and adool olh-
re by telephone. Arrange- censored nross nn.iLn. i,..ioir i ... er ulanUs bearing on oreoai edness
ments for the. pursuit, immediately eclved in Juarez today. Xone of these i and foreign policy just 11.1 they have
were begun ,'made'any mention of the scheduled been written by the president.
demonstration
GrADALAJAH MTI'ATIOV
but persons familiar Senator Stone has had several con-
With pondilwtnki n 1Un ..I.. I .fcrnnrpij with Pri.Hiil..Ml U'llunn itti
IS KKIMHTKU CRIl ICAL a l -n t-f that u crisis would he reched 'as chairman of the senate foreign re-
i ,. . , at tho meeting.
today from Man-
Han
cans arriving here
zanillu, Mexico, reported that condi
tions In the Guadalajara district were
critical and declared Mexican authori
ties and others were fomenting antl-
A moei iii n fio I ill CT
The lack of purchasing power of . snorted that while he had the masses
the de facto currency was given as thftlfi tho Voplo well under control then,
o.-ii iT-uicr wan sucn rnai tne time
seemed approaching when he could
I bupporling thi belief was a story
brought to the border by Mrs. Au
gustine Labans.it, wife of the Carran
za. commander at San Luis Potosi, who
asserted that Gen. Jacinto Trcvlno,
1 commander at Chihuuhtia fit v. had
cause of the present conditions.
Fifteen American refugees arrived
from Mazatlan. Mexico, tonight on the
naval collier Mars. The refugees said
they left their homes in the state of
Sonora in obedience to American con
sular warnings and not because of
fear of antl-Ame.rkan demonstrations.
TAYKLVK K1I.I.KI IX
MKXICA.V WTUX K
oie oroatts rleu nf tore. oicees.elve
f'l'li. The cruiser, literally covered
itli shells, was unable to fire a sin
Kle shot, in reply, and blew up oppo
Ue the fourth ship.
IK'nies Itritlsh Claim.
'The British claim that the surviv
ln units of their battle fleet were
"oi materially damaged and were
rf;iuly to take to sea. again after coal
'"K is absurd. The greater part of
davliirht nptfrm ici:a f n t1- f with
Wp running1 alnns purallel U:iC8 ami j
wrier s0 many HhipH were destroyed j
l Is obvious that tho others did not j
lift Hilurei(h.1 '
uneentrnt.d on uny particular ship
't wan riessary to keep all the ships
'overed' 0 as to inteifere with Ue
"wration in aim.
We are perfectly sure that the
"aim fleet cannot, ns the Hritlsh as- I
L- ' Ko t0 sea virtually unimpaired in
rre"'h for a long time. It. has been
Wt in its iimtfrial and suffered
j'wal ldKscg jn ( personnel. We
"tirrmte conservatively that the firlt-
' " ion ,,1101) men ctrnw-neii or killed
ino.t diffl-
dits were being pursued south toward
the Durango border by General Ku
mon's command, while General Her
nandez, occupying Torreon de Canas
and the L'ibinas ranch at Los Nievea,
is cutting off their retreat westward
into the Sierra Madres,
SOLDIERS FOLLOW
POLITICAL NEWS
(r MOIHI JOURNAL FICIAL LIAStO
Field Headquarters, June 11 (by
Radio to Columbus, N. M'.). With
their present duty largely accom
plished and peace established as far
as their Influence reaches, the men
of the punitive expedition have turned
almost their entire attention of late
to national politics. During Ihe Cbl
cogo conventions a bulletin service
from the Associated Press kept them
In close touch with developments,
which were keenly watched, particu
larly the declarations in regard to Mex
ico." The .Mexican summer is Mister
ing and amusements are few for the
I expeditionary soldiers. Cut however
i k-PFii their ' Interest in convention
I news, army discipline ke.qi
Saltillo, Mexico, June 11. Twelve
persons were killed und seventeen
Carrsnza soldiers were injured seri
ously when a military train conveying
Gen. Luis Gutierrez to Saltillo was
wrecked near hero last Thursdday
night.
General Gutierrez suffered only
slight bruises.
Ten Cnrranza soldiers and the en
gine crew were killed. The train
left the track on a. curve, the locomo
tive and three coaches turning over.
A defective rail was blamed for the
' accident.
I The agreement between Oenenls
Pershing and Gavira had to do with
disposition of troopw in the territory
in mat miction or the city late this republicans that Is. a declaration in I hocIuhIoii at Sanramore Hill the rest
lust don, rfunei 12.) The following official
them
Winston Churchill repeats
we'' I rTTr fUflCT Mill I
fne. losses of the
sort to replace.
. J'omillshed It lnrH)s-.
icl tlritish admiralty representative
nt a,,rt J-uioon eorrespoou- )rJm pressing their opinions
th ., . viiurcniii n
ne declaration, that the Hritish
tinri V ,,trn,l"e they broke up our I
"''Waking. What undertaking? Is i
th St"'n 1 W"1'1'1 ''ke o nsk- J'" I
oUr l:n"s""' 'hat we went out with j
hin"nV,e r,jr0e of available battle-I
,..." h,,tl' '-misers, etc.. to shoot
a : '"at if we were planning will receive their last,
'oust' 'ru,w-r lfli1 " tb Knglish i arb-s this week, wlv-n
fn-...' W Pnt "p to the Norwegian I orer O. N". Mai run w ill
To niase
fund. To-
4 n was
daliipe county:
rnalillo county, ant
Giant county.
WALK THIS WEEK
CPICitL CORRMPONOlNCt TO MORNI JOURhAkl
Simla. Ke. .lone II. Mate oiuci.un
UAXDir LliXDUKS
AKK CAITIT.KI
Ijiredo, Tex.- June 11. Can-anai
troops and Mexican bandits engaged
In a battle today at Sanchez, Mexico,
twenty miles south of Xuevo I-nedo.
which resulted in the capture of the
bandit leaders- The outlaws were a
part of Luis De La Kosa's hand, ac
cording to accounts of the battle
which reached the border tonight.
Two armed Japanese were arrested
near l'tedras Negras todav by de faeto
no mnger guarantee udequate pro
tection to Americans. A Carraticlsta
guard of twelve men hart been thrown
about all foreign consulates In the city
as a jirotective measure, she said.
Mexicans Start llriiift.
Five Mexicans who crossed t.h Hlo
Grande to the American ld firing
their piKtols, caused some little alarm
la! Ions committee has intimate knowl
edge of President Wilson's viewa on.
party politic,".
.Suffragists Active,
Woman suffracists who led the
fight for a suffrage plank In the re
publican platform, are ready to wage
a similar campaign for a. suffroge
plank in the democratic platform.
Members of the committee from the
suffrage states me expected to lend
their aid.
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, presi
dent of the National American Wom
an Suffrage association, Is here with
other leaders of the movement to di
rect the fight. Democratic, national
committeemen say there are indica
tions that the party will take u posi
tion on suffrage similar to that of the
ll ..I T- ...!. .1- .....1
nunii mill, nrpinoiu, in Uilllt.lu aim
The- board of county commissioners MicKowtnn, progress also has been
todav declared the road from Huck-i made by the Russians. The Austrian.
man Into the Pajaiilo cliff dwelling admit the withdrawal of their forces
country a public road and approprl-:1" northeastern L'ukowlna.
a ted 150 to repair the liiickman Austrlnns all along the battle
bridge across the Km Grande, pro- front are putting up a stubborn re
sistance, especially east oi jaoiki, ly
ing to the north of Lutsk, where they
have forced back Uusslan advanced
elements across tho Styr river, and
in tho region of TorgoviUy at fityr,
south of Lutsk, where a naiiKulnary
battle Is in progress.
Thrii ;o,-,7i,(n Attack ClKt ked.
I inctf naiuruuy iiimu, worn iiirev
uermaii auiirns aguiust me rrenen
trenches on Hill 304 and other point
In this sector were put down by the
French fire, bombardments alone
have been in progress on the fighting
zone about Verdun. No changes In
position have taken place here or at
any other point on the line in France
and Ilelglum. held by the French,
Hritish and Ilelftian troops. The Hrlt.
Ish n round Ypres have again boon
heavily shelled by tho Germans.
Tho Italians claim progress for
IV...In t.,w...u ...itnui tk AMu,i.nu In
, . men ii.vjnKniMnLini7sMaiiifi.i.i
Newspaper Men I here s ",p r-Blo '"-tween tne AdiKe and
, ii r -ri ii ilireiila rivers gouthenst of Trent, und
NO USe I0r I liem tO Hailg announce the repulse, with heavy
iI,.ibo, n 1 1, a n ft i ulrnt-a AiiBfritmii
endeavoring to capture Monte Le
merla southwest of ASlago,
Ilallnq Cabinet Iteslgns.
Tlie Italian cabinet has resigned as
r result of the refusal of the chamber
of deputies to give a vote of confi
dence to the government, after it had
I failed to pass the budget of tho inla
I Istry of the Interior.
Tho Hritish troop lu German East
Africa, have captured the town of
Momob. In the Usambara district and
lllsmarckburK on Lake
I vlded $1511 Is contributed from pit
j vate sources1.
Inni nun nrnriTn
UIIIIMH HrFrtt S
.UULUIILL II Ul LIIIU
I nr in 1 1 n i nunrn
ul il mil 1 1 n 1 1 l u
iil id ru LuiyuLii I
PLAYING POLITICS'
Sage
of Oyster Bay Tells
Around,
! aoMira jnuRHAi (riciAi. lsamb wirri
Oyster Ray, June 11. Thoodore '
KooHcvelt reilerated toniifht that he '
Is "out of politics."
l w:mt to tell you newspaper men, :
he said, "that It's of no use for you
to come up here to see me, I will have'
nothing to say. I will answer no!
questions, ho please don't ask mo to. i the town of
1 am out of politic." If the former i Tanganyika.
president has any plans for tho Im- An official tabulation of Oornum
mediate future other than to continue ! losses up to the end of May gives nsr
hl literary work, ho has not inado ; gregato casualties of 2,24,588. of
them public. His secretary, John W. which 7.14,412 represent men killed.
McGrath, is expected to arrive herg' These losses are declared to bo cxclu
tomorrow from Chlc.igo, with a detail-1 sive of those sustained tn naval en
ed report of the happenings at both j gugemcnta and tho fltfht in the colo
the republican and progressive con- nles.
vontioitH. " 1
Mr. Itoosevelt attended church TXlUiS CLAIM TO
service in the vlllngo this afternoon
with Mrs. Roosevelt, hut remained in
ariernoon nut the Mexicans, apparent
ly intoxicated, recrossed the river al
most Immediately, none of their shots
having taken effect.
Andres Garcia, the local Mexican
consul, declared hiniaelf an optimist
tonight on his return from a visit to
the headquarters of General Gonzales
in Juarez.
Garcia Optimistic.
"I cannot see that there is any dan
gor of a break, despite alarmist re
ports," ho said.
His comment on tho report that
General Trevino had repudiated Gen
eral Guviras part in tho recent con
ference with General Pershing
t oon i khow: inai may te.
A train urrived at Juarez tonight
principle for suffrage, but leaving it
a matter for the atateg to determine.
The leaders now hero do not ex
pect any sustained fight for a prohi
bltlon plunk.
Hrynn llcotly to right?
There were unconfirmed rumors to
night, that VV. J. Hryan, though not
a delegate, would find some way to
precipitate a fij;bt on the prepared
ness plank, but none of his friends
here wi ro in a position to say how he
might touch on the Issue in a conven
tion in which ho iH not a delegate,
Mr. Hryan will only be able to ud-
'dress the convention with tho unani-
was: j m,,us consent of Its 1,092 delegatec.
and ho may not occupy a sent on the
I floor of the convention, unless both a
HAVE HErTLflED FOES
(oininntlnople. Juno 11 (via I'm-
I of the day. The telegraph wires
night und todav brought u flood of communication was Issued today:
messages to Colonel Hoosevelt. It "After a battle ut Khanlkln (on tho
was announced the, mot of them np- j Persian frontier, northeast of Bag
proved his action f it declining to bo--dad), which resulted In tho defeat and
come a candidate upou tho progres-Retreat of the Russian, cur forces
slve ticket. pursued the enemy, drove back strong
While Colonel Roosev It would not Cossack detachment and entered
discuss the question toduy, his Inti- Kasr-I-Shtrln.1
mates consider! it altogether unllke-
t ,"' . .' - "l l iirougut ! delegate and his alternate retire
jTuAii.au ,.iiniificia, wno '.riail
nothing to say of interest on tho sit
uation. Why the remaining Ameri
cans in the city did not avail them
selves of this opportunity to come out
is not known.
Cnrraiieistns at Jiimvz.
Several hundred Carranclstn. sol-
Hiai-.. I.i.v. I....-. ...I. r
.....i- .rllMlll ii jviut-c
Ifrom Chihuahua Cfty within tho mist
twenty-four hours. Hut this In Itself
Is not considered unusual here, ns
.fuare. is the military distributing
nfilnt fiii tl.lu u....ti., ..fl...l..l..
troops ebarged with being Identified , (,,)Wn ()f th), jjeJjt.() North'.
I western railway.
Incoming trains from Mexico today, (;l.1,(.,.H ( ;,.. lft f(ir Jlf,XM,o (.jly
V", no lli' d ii i, OIK niin'i ii.iirin timi
and
,,, "' 1,1 f'nd the enemy which we funds Inning been received
Ihe !," u,Pr'- We met him, met up the deficit in the salary f
4 K,.,, "f ,hi Hritish srand fleet in da- n remittance of l.,,71'-
hav. i '""'"'P "got, inflicted the I received irom ' .i
un, i " "f onH of hi! n,ost modern T7.M from He.
"'ureKdnaughtu, thrte battle cruis- izO.m.'H from
other foreigneis to the border The
refugees said they were leaving the
country owing to serious political conditions.
controlled by the American punitive
expedition and was Intended as a pre
caution that might prevent unauthoi
lKed clashes. It in no way affeettd
quarter's sal-,ne more important payees oi ine su
State Treas-j nation,
make the dis- General Gavira was ordered to M"x.
Hiifficient leo vny anout iro- time i.enerai ire-
vino sent his message to General t'er
shing. Official advices have been received
by General Funston that General Ga
vira lias asked officer at chihuahua
City to supply him a list of tlaeir uai
I early this morning in response to u
summons from War Minister obrcgon.
ADD lit i It I L I! GROWS
MEXICANS AKOI SFIl
OVKIt F.SP
:irrio
Columbus, V M., June Jl. Clrcu-
I 1.1 1 denoiinelim llie presence of
American soldiurs im Mexican soil
have made their appearance at Casus
Grandes and CiVnia Dublan. accord
ing to reports received here tonight
direct from Casus Grande. The man
ager of a ranch in the neighborhood
of thoe towns is snld to have com
plained to tSeneral l'ershing that men
dressed as .Mexican soldiers have been
ruuiiiuu off cattle from hi lands.
give him their proxy.
Work on preparation of tho conven
tion hall Is being rushed and the na
tional committee Is confident it will
be ready for the first session. Day
an,i night carpenters snd decorator
are ul work transforming the Coli
seum Into a convention hall.
12,000 Scat ProOdcil.
Nearly ll'.eOu seals have Ix-cn pro
vided for the delegate.-!, alternates,
press guests and spectator and tho
demand for tickets has far outrun the
supply. The national committee has
threatened to arrest anyone found
speculating In tickets to the conven
tion. A local committee that sub
Hcrihed heavily to the fund that
brought the convention to St. ljiuls
has ,et n price .,f $:.u for a tiiket, fnj
the week
Charles F. .Murphy, leader of Tam
many hall, with several members of
the Now York delegation, was expect
ed here lale tonight. The main body
of the dolegatloii and Tammany iuen,
numbering nearly a thousand, are ex
pected here mi special trains Tuesday.
Tammany is sending a larger conven
tion contingent than any state. The
Now York men are especially Interest
ed in the keynote speech to be delivered
by former Governor Martin .1. Glvnn
of New York, ns temporary chairman
of the convention. He and Senator
ly that he would reconsider his con
ditional refusal to head a third ticket,
lie has not yet made it cleur whether
or not he will support tho candidacy
of Mr, Hughes.
FIGHTING
AGAIV
ACTIVE NE.YH YPRES
ALBUQUERQUE LANDS
STATE CONVENTION OF
SUNDAY SCHOOL BODY
1OiHlon, .tun,, 12, Tho Hritish of
ficial statement Issued at midnight
reads;
"Plnco Inst night the Yprea salient
has again been the chief scene of ac
tivity. On the southern portion-
from flill 60 to a point about 1,600
yards north the enemy shelled our
I trenches heavily for about throe
hours this afternoon. In tho morn
jlng lie shelled the town of Ypros and
I the back area southward. North of
; the Meiiln road our trenches Were
shelled intermittently throughout the
idny.
"IjisI night lifter a heavy bombard
i ment of our trenches between Thiep
val, Illamont and Ilamel tho enemy,
(in the course of a raid In the Ancro
i valley, was able to cut off a few men
of a wiring party;
llflCIAL CORRISPONORNCR TO aluRNI N(l JOURNAL)
Last lis Vegas, N. JL, June 11.
A, the Saturday afternoon session of
the Stale Sunday School association
convention tho officers of the organ
ization were re-elected und Albuquer
que was selected as the next meeting
place. The officers are VV, II. Clirls
iiuin, Aztec, president; D. A. Porter
field, Albuquerque, vie, president;
Miss Mibtl A. Smllh, Olio, vice presi- who formed part
dent: II. S Lithgow, Albuquerque, five are missing.
treasurer. The departmental super-1 "On the remainder of the front.
Intetidenls are: Klcmontary. Miss Ha-; there was nothing except minor
zel lioyd Las Vegas; secondary, Mis. ; trench mortar and artillery action
W. 11. fievenney, Itytou; tea, her ' opposite Frieourt and south of Neu-
trainlug. .Mrs. W, ll. Long. Albuquer-1 vllle-St. Vaast.
que; adnll. Rev. Archie Toothaker, "Vest
Albuquerque; finance and steward-' crashed
ship, a new department, Rev. J. Clyde
Kt egan, Santa Rosa. The executive ' l'AICIS
.. J . . - - .1 .1. .. I ........ '
l oiotou iee ,,i rum i,i.ihi o, , ne ipiihm
i hid W. .. Ogle of lis egas; Dr.
erduy, a Fokker brought down
into a field near Habourdin."
Kl'.lDHTS IIEWV
FIRING NKK
Vl"JUlTN'
Charles Darling. Roswell; Frank C.
Keel'er. Albuquerque; Rev. Randolph
Cook. Albuquerque; George Robinson,
Deining, and I'rof. Roscoe Hill, Albu
querque. The resolution ndopte'd by the con
vention favor prohibition, condemn
cigarettes, and urge the proper cen
worship of tho movies. Libit) reading
in recommended.
Paris, June 11. The official com
munication Issued tonight reads:
"on the front north of Verdun no
Infantry action was raised during- the
course of the day. Our artillery ac.
tlvlty counter-shelled the Gorman bat.
terie which bombarded, particularly
in the region south of tho ThlaumouC
farm and west of Fort Vau.
"The. day was calm cn Uia redt of
