CAN
AXXJCj jESJmAXJJJA.- IAjHaJT XJ J3JUJL
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAIi
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MOHXING, JUNE 12, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 23
HlifHFS TO RFf IN HIS FIf HIT FOR PRFS
DENCi WAY
CANDIDATE WILL
lTH
FEHENGE
This Ation and His Aceop-
lance Construed as l?e
moving Any Doubts About
His Intention to Wage
Vigorous Campaign
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June 11. Charles
E. Hughes will begin his fight for the
presidency tomorrow, with a series of
political conferences in New York City.
His action in hastening to New York,
taken in connection with the telegram
of acceptance to Chairman Hardins,
construed as removing any doubts
about his Intention to wage u vigorous
campaign. The nominee plans to be
in New York in time to meet the re
publican leaders returning from the
Chicago convention. He will seize the
opportunity also, if time permits, to get
in touch once more with the situation
in New Y'ork state. The time of his
return to Washington has not been
fixed. In any event, he will return in
ample time to receive the official noti
fication of his nomination later in the
week.
The chief questions to be discussed
now concern the selection of a chair
man of the national committee, and
the nature of the presidential cam
jwiign, particularly the part to be
played by Mr. Hughes himself. Points
to be emphasized in the notification
will be read.
After six years of complete retire
ment from political activity Mr.
Hughes finds himself quite out of touch
wilh politics and he is turning to his
friends in New. York for Information
and guidance. No statement as to
whom he will see there was forthcom
ing from the Hughes residence tonight,
but it is expected he will meet former
Attorney Gen. Geo. W. Wiekersham,
long a close friend, Frederick C. Tan
ner, chairman of the New York City
Republican committee; . Frank H.
Russians Gaining In Offensive Against Austrians
ROOSEVELT INSISTS
IS OUT OF POLITICS
OYSTER BAY, N. Y., June 11.
Theodore Roosevelt reiterated to
day that he is "out of politics."
"I want to tell you newspaper
men," he said, "that it's of no use
for you to come up here to see me.
I will have nothing to say. I will
answer no questions, so please
den't ask me to. I am out of poli
tics." If the former president has any
plans for the immediate future
ether than to continuo his literary
v.'ork, he has not made thorn uo
lic. His secretary, John W. Mc
Grath, is expected to arrive here
temoriow from Chicago, with a de
tailed -eport of the happenings of
the republican and progressive
conventions-
Colonel
Roosevelt
attended
church service in the village this
afternoon with Mrs. Roosevelt, but
remained in seclusion at Sagamore .
HiM, tho est of the day. The tele
graph wires last ninht and today
brought a flood of messages to
Colsnel Roosevelt. It was an
nounced that most of "them ap
proved his action in declining to
become a candidate upon the pro
gressive tisket.
White Colonel Roosevelt would
not discuss the question today, his
int'mates considered it altogether
unlikely that he would reconsider
his conditional refusal to head a
third ticket. He has not yet made
it cleir whether or not he will sup
port the candidacy of Mr. Hughes.
GAPT. ACDSTA
KILLS KILLER
IT 91 PEDBO
Luis ( liavez, Ex-Mexican
, Executioner, Slain Near
Harden When He Opens
Fire on Former Villa Of
ficers Visiting Mother
HAVE TAKEN 118,000
A USTRIAN PRISONERS
BESIDES WAR STORES
ITS ID
DANCIIES: y. S.
TROOPSPURSUE
I i
! taking inventory MAdvauce of Russians
' ur fuuuoiurrs i i
FOUR ARK EST ED IN
THE HAYDEN JAIL
I I (.l)OX, June 12 The govern
, .r.er.t is taking an inventory of all
j the f icdslufi's in the United King- J
dom. Farmers are receiving a le- j
! quevt for a report to the board of
I Mi'i-k-i'ltrro on their stocks of I
I v.i-.eat, corn and barley, the extent j
of their growing crops and the j
c mount of their live stock. j
r
Is
Notable for Number of
Prisoners Taken and for
Enormous Captures of
(inns and Ammunition
DEMOCRATS GATHE
FOR PLIUITOil! C
R IN ST. LOUIS
IffiFITII:
Winer Bandit Leaders
Shoot in Self Defense;
(Wirt Room to Be (iuard
ed Against Partisans at
it. ....; mm,:., m :
(Special to The Republican)
HAYDKN, June 1 1. Francisco Acos
la, ex-Yillista captain yesterday shot
and killed Luis Chavez, quondam exe
cutioner of Sonora state in front of the
I
,o
nis in ii p mr
i mMM TO !
1 U U"W i. I k fa I w
I
it r g nil r-iniKi-.
! Hum Mn lb1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ( lutions and it is understood that he
ST. LOUIS, June 11. Forerunners anil the members of the committee
of the 1,092 delegates who are to . will put President Wilson's ideas on
nominate President Wilson and Vice certain planks in written form and hitter's Home in San Pedro, a Mexican
President Marshall at the democratic 1 udopt other planks bearing on pre- j suburb. General Jose Maria Acosta,
national convention tins weeK, moveu paredp.ess and loreign policy just as
into St. Louis w ith the slogan of j they have been written by the presi
"Peace, Prosperity and Preparedness." ! dent.
The convention holds its first section j senator Stone has had seveial ton
at noon Wednesday. ' Terences with Presidei-t Wilson and as
A contest over six seats from t!.e , pIl.lirnmn t the senate foreign rela- six-shooter.
District of Columbia in the convention I t,ona lommiure lias intimate knowl-! The fatal encounter took place one
will be taken up at a meeting of the j e&,e of iresiat lit Wilson's views on I hour after the release of the Acosta
democratic national convention t'J-j 1)arty plans. : brothers by Justice of the Peace Stud-
morrow, when the committee will de- i Women suffragists who led the fight ley, who had arrested .them, on sus
cide two contested seats on. the na- j ()r a MUffraBe plunk in the republican picion, centering around their bran new
uonai comniHiee, one irom texas ami ; ,atform are ready to wage a similar equipment ot turee wagons, sixteen
campaign for a suffrage plank in the , neau oi nraics ami uiree wagons.
returned Chavez's fire, when the Mex
ican, knowing the Aeoslas were seek
ing hi.-, death in r-.-veiB for the execu
tion of a nephew last year uncorked a
one from the District of Columbia
inomas Love is contesting the seat . ...-,,,... k. iatform. Members on She !
Hitchcock, the unauthorized Hushes I Wl"iilm 1'oindextcr of TexHs, 'anU . committce from the suffrage states!
Revenge Motive
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OTTAWA. Ont.. June 11. The des
perate fighting on the Canadian front
on June 2 which opened with a tremen
dous bombardment by the Germans and
which resulted in very heavy casual
ties for the Dominion forces is de
scribed in a communication received
today from the Canadian Corps head
quarters in France.
"The weight of fire," says the de
spatch, was greater than any hitherto
experienced by the Canadian troops
and in spite of the retaliation of our ar
tillery, continued in steadily increasing
volume for four hour-
"The front and special trenches were
severely damaged and in many places
f Republican A. P. Leased Wire
From the wooded region of south
west Russia to the Rumanian frontier
the Russians are keeping up their tre-
I mendous offensive against the Austro-
! Hungarians who have been reinforced
Ion several sectors fcy Germans.
The advance of the Russians is not
able for lhe large number of prisoners
taken and the enormous captures of
guns, machine guns, ammunition and
other war stores. In the week that
has .-in' sed since they first threw
their attacks against the Austrians,
I the Russians report that they have
j captured approximately 118,000 officers
and men and forced back the organized
lines of their antagonists from the re
gion of the Yolhynian fortress triangle
to Rumania.
Having previously captured Lutsk,
the Russians now have retaken Dubno,
the second of the fortresses in the Vo1
Mexicans Drive Off Eighty
Horses and Kidnap Two
Americans Horses Are
Recovered and the Pris
oners Are Released
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LAREDO, Tex., June 11. American
troops sent from here early today to
pursue Mexican bandits who raided
the T. A. Coleman ranch near San
Samuel, forty miles northeast of
Laredo, did not cross the border, ac
cording to reports received late to
night by Brigadier General Mann,
commanding the Fourteenth cavalry.
The Mexicans did not succeed in driv
ing the eighty odd horses stolen from
the Coleman ranch across the Rio
Grande, General Mann was informed,
having abandoned the animals when
Within two miles of the border.
"The bandits, or whoever they
were.'' said General Mann tonight,
"evidently got 'cold feet,' fearing the,
presence of American troops, and
abandoned the horses before they
could rush them across the border."
Besides Fheir foray on the T. A.
Coleman ranch, the bandits also vis
ited the Johnson and Coleman ranches
in the same vicinity, but their plan to
hyninn triangle held by the Austrians j steal horses there wa.s frustrated when
boomer at Chicago; Gov. Whitman and
others.
"He killed our nephew." was the I .,,.:,. ".,, KntanL-Iements were de-
only statement the Acosta brothers L,rvll T-h( m,.w fnmo nf
D. l., are contesting the selection or, Canie r'h.ipman Srottj ,,re!il. . walU maw wteiM,..iestimea i.y tne t!wUltttlld,, of i,UR,Ung utiells. highly ex.
four democratic clubs in Washington.
;are expected to lend their aid
:i, is here with
other leaders of the movement, to di-
Friends of the nominee !.v ho l Jonn F- 'ostello as committeeman. , , , f lh vtional American Woman
fired with enthusiasm to get into the tv"r-v. cne. " lne elueK to tne .s,,ffllle Assoc
contest now that the convention has
rmkoii I committed to tne renominauon or rcct
lomUra r.f Ota lt,,crh-a t rr, i 1 or. I If-H.LIIL V d Nil llltr WlOl 111.1-
peared in public today for the first
time since the nomination. He and
bis daughter. Miss Catherine, left home
at 10:30 this morning, to walk two
miles to the Calvary Baptist church.
Their way was blocked by a squad of
the fight. Democratic national
ininiiiithpni(-n ;i V tlli'l'o :ire inilioa-
jority of them, according to many,.. n th; tllp niirtv will tflke .,os;.
national committeemen, are ready to .()n (m sllffr.lKe similar to that of the
republicans that is, a declaration in
re-name Vice President Marshall. A
tew votes are expecieu icj oe casi lor . prillciule for suffrage, but leaving it
some favorites f,r the vice president - mHnf.T for the states to determine,
tial place, but the party leaders as-I ,, h,.r ,, uot ex.
moving picture men who kept pace i semunng nere predict tne inner names i an Hust.line(j fiKnl fur a ,,rohi
with them for two squares. At the m&y be withdrawn and that Marshall's ,,n ..,,,.
church entrance, they were met by Mrs. j renomination, like that of President I Tnere wtre -unconfirmed reports to
Hughes and little Miss Elizabeth who j Wilson, w ill be made by acclamation, i nint thlt w j i;rvan. though not j elnKl,'
V,n,1 Hrlfun Tho Yvi,.i-ir,rr T.t.oi "W- 11 m hefp to Tafifv tllft desire of . . ' ..'. ' . . Willlv
ficcrs. From this it is evident the
Yillistas pursued a revenge motive, al
though the details of the killing indi
cate thai t lie deed was committed in
self defense.
Luis Chavez is an employe in the
Hayd'-n mills. He lives here with a
number of relatives. Near his resi
dence in San Pedro is that of the moth
er nf the Acostas.
Together with the Cerecer brothers,
Pancho and Jose Maria Acosta came to
Haydcn several days ago. Their out
fit they left across the river at Wink-
elmun. They were encamped near
kelman, when arrested early yes-
- "' " I-"--"-- i - a delegate, win una some uy 10 im- , , ..,
men had made the family late for sef- the democratic party, said National I .. .... u preparedness ; , " ,
vices. 'As they lingered outside the Chairman McCombs tonight. , L but none of l is friends here ' .'utee Studley examined
,i.h ..,! ih a ,., .n. mil.h. l, fih if wo col,l t'U"k' bul n""e."r hls I"ena ne,re ; their well-told story, their
.,i,. twith vtV nnii kfrii Hiiifhfiu ' hold tho innvpntinn in Kiirone Tfsa wr? In y I-earance and other eviden
; 1 .' . " i , V . , ,r . . . ; might touch on tne same in a coneu- s,nndil,e caused him to rel
were renters of friends nressinir for- rertaintv there will be no fieht here.! . . ... . ........ .i.., si.inuii.s, launeu mm ivi
r - , - .j-- in Wnin no IS Villi H HflKLdlC.
ward to shake hands. : The program is all arranged and
During services, the family' wa.s ' there should be no hitch."
them, and
good ap-
ces of good
ease them.
They rode into San Pedro, bent upon
visiting their mother. Chavez, believ-
ere seeking him, stepped out
Mr. Bryan will only be able to address
L "' i V, nnrontifill "U" i I ll the liniUlimUU.S -
uontoH nino v,U'C from fho frr,nt f I L.'...,., ..... X-illi.m T tr,ni nf Miu. -'"r vw...v.. j, llley
...... v. ... ravi,l i. . ,...,,v. .w ,.,.uf ,,r lt 1 ll'l-' llo OlFllfOK. 3 11(1 IIP m r - J J J ; ...l.K
bringing what n r o.-m-u ,1:1 c n.i
... m.- ..f u v.. a..... f ,ul 1 m,1 "ol orx-uvy a mi ;a 3 calibre revolver, lie snot usnerai
civu.,uo nit i.-At mi; 7,, in ( ncllll iO IK L Uldll Ul Lite mi ij (
plosuve, gas ana lachrymatory, hung
heavily in the air and rendered obser
vation almost impossible.
"Major General M. S. Mercer and
Brigadier General V. A. S. Williams
hail arranged to inspect certain front
works this morning.
"The generals were caught in the
bombardment and unfortunately both
are missing, il is rep.:(ed that when
hist seen General Mercer had been
struck on the head by a flying sa,nd
bag and General Williams had been
wounded in the face.
"All along the line our troops clung
to the shattered trenches with the
greatest gallantry. When the bombard
ment ceased the enemy advanced and
(Continued on Page Two)
tho church in a comparatively incon- souri arrived tonight, bringing what i
I '
wax "So Run That ou May Obtain." platform, with the
I . t,, .,.ni'onlinn iniloss both St delegate! 4 I l.,,u.,.V, V, i m Cuii
main planks! . .... ,.. io him'. . . . . ..... ...
T. ,i,i . uvui , , . , , T, ., ; ana inw uuciiwic e.-- tain Acosia, w no nau not aLicniii.eu in
1 . r?T?. u' 'ht?ln! 8ketch?.d ,n de!alf ,'y.Ir?",P"t. i their proxy. . ; Join his brother in a return fusillade,
"' ... - ncil. loir 1 1 cl L ' J ntnvtu i . .
i chairman of the committee on reso-1 (Continued on Page iMgntj
After lunch Mr. and Mrs. Hughes
called at the homes of all the justices
of the Supreme Court to pay farewell
calls. No one was received at the
Hughes home. 1 Representative Mann,
republican leader in the house, was
among those who called during Mr.
Hughes' absence. Federal Justice Prit
chard of North Carolina, long a close
friend of Mr. Roosevelt, was another
caller.
Mr. Hughes promised tonight to
march in the preparedness parade to
be held here Wednesday, provided bus
iness does not take him out of town on
that day. President Wilson in response
to an invitation from the arrangements
committee, already has promised to
bead the parade to review it from a
utand In front of the White House and
later to deliver an address on "America
first."'
The demonstration, in which other
high officials are expected to take part.
will be the principal feature of the cap
SllFlIliBIS
- ST. LOUIS COH! PUS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON,' June, 1 1. President
Wilson today put his final approval
on plans' fir the democratic, national
convention at St. Louis. After attend
ing church with Mrs. Wilson in the
morning, he spent the afternoon and
evening conferring with democratic
leaders.
Secretary Baker, who will be a deie-
itol's celebration of Flag Day. It was (0 the convention, saw the presi-
(Continued on Page Two) dent twice, and Dudley Field Malone,
Five Possible Candidates
For G. 0. P. Chairman
Republican A. P. Leased Wire odcre Roosevelt. In 1908 he was chair
CHICAGO, June ll.-Five names man of the republican national com-
William H. Taft,
were mentioned as possible candidates
for chairman of the republican na
tional committee and manager of the
Hughes ar.d Fairbanks campaign in
the political discussion in subject Djr
republican leaders here today prior to
their leaving for their homes.
The names mentioned were: Frank
H. Hitchcock of New York, Ralph E.
V illiama of Oregon, Joseph B. Kealing
ot Indiana; Fred C. Tanner of New
York, and Charles B. Warren of Mich
igan. HitchcoclS managed the pre-conven-lion
campaign of Hughes in Chicago.
In 1104 he was vice chairman of the
collector of customs at New Yorw, also
conferred with him. Secretary Baker
will leave for St. Louis tomorrow night
and will be one ot the president's per
sonal representatives at the conven
tion. The Mexican plank in the democratic
platform is giving administration of
ficials some concern, because of the
continued uncertainty of the situation
and the possibility that it w ill thange
soon. It was understood today that
the plank will emphasize the policy of
the president of interfering as littlo
as possible in the internal affairs of
Mexico.
Although tie president planned to
sel"ct a chairman for thb democratic
national convention he h;d not made
up his mma tonigm. namci .
mings, national committeeman from
Connecticut and vice chairman of the
committee, appeared to be most likely
the choice.
The prestnt irlentioii of the presi
dent Is not to make any speeches in
addition to the address he. will, deliver
Tues'lay at West Point and here Wed
nesday, he already has accepted invi
tations to soeak m New York June 30,
ar.d here July 4. at the dedication of
the new headqnarters-of the American
Federation of Labor. He probably will
..i ... Iimi o'irlkr in Tlllv anil tn
i: ni' i' il. i..-t,iwi.. ... -
when he saw the horse fall, whipped
out a six shooter and sent two bullets
into the neck of Chavez. He died in
stantly. Deputy Sheriff V. K. Rinehart of
Gila county, who had accompanied
Studley to make the original arrest,
had learned of the shooting. He hast-
lened to San Pedro and arrested the
Acosta brothers. They made no re
sistance.
Chavez's Gun Missing
An odd twist to the story is found in
the fact that the six shooter of Luis
Chavez Is missing. No trace has been
found of it. The only' solution to the
mystery seems to be that friends or
relatives of the dead man, concealed the
GERMAN LOSSES HEAVY
Republican A. P. Ltssed Wire
I.CVDilX, June 11. Germany up to
the end of May has lost 2.924,586 sol
diers of whoir-. 7:14,472 were killed, ac
cording to a British official tabulation
of the German casualty list given out
here todiy The compilation did not
include German losses in naval en
gagements, or in the fighting in the
German colonies
the cowboys stampeded the animals.
Two Americans, George Conover and
Arthur Myers, were captured by the
Mexicans and held prisoners a short
while. They were released without
being maltreated.
It was reported that Luis de la
Rosa, fomenter of various disturb
ances, was with the raiders, but this
has not been confirmed.
The Mexicans, said to have num
bered fifteen men, had rounded up a
bunch of horses when they were dis
covered by Conover and Myers and a
Mexican employe of the ranch, who
stampeded the animals.
George R. Alexander, foreman of the
T. A. Coleman ranch, with three men,
left the ranch at daybreak today, tak
ing the horses to a pasture at Webb,
Texas. At 7:30 o'clock, when twelve
miles from the Rio Grande, they wero
attacked from the rear by Mexicans,
who evidently had been following
them. The Mexican rifle fire was too
much for the ranchers and they were
compelled to take to the brush, aban
doning the horses, which the bandits
drove off. Alexander hurriedly rodo
to Minera and reported the incident
to army officers here by telephone.
Arrangements for the pursuit immedi
ately were begun.
, Many Americans living in the dis
trict bordering the Rio Grande began
arriving here tonight with the inten
tion of remaining until rumors of new
danger from bandit raids had been
quieted. The women and children
from a number of outlying ranches
have been sent here as a measure of
precaution.
Carranza. trooos liml Mexican b:in-
pointed out, brings the German totafidits engaged in a battle today at San
losses, exclusive of naval and colonial cbez, Mexico, twenty miles south of
casualties to 2,924,5Sfi. I Nuevo Laredo, which resulted in tho
The German figures in the May list, capture of four bandit leaders. The
as enumerated in the British account, outlaws were a part of Luis de la
are as follows: ! Rosa's band, according to accounts
Dead, 22,471: wounded, 72,075; l ris- j of the battle which reached the border
oners and missing, 7,901. Totals, 102,- , tonight.
507. I Two armed Japanese were arrested
The German official lists of casual- j near Piedras Negras today by de
and a repressing the retreating Aus- j
trians westward. In Galicia, and Bu-j
kov. in, progress also has been made bv
the Russians. The Austrians admit
tl.e withdrawal of their forces in
northea tern Bukowina.
The Austrians all along the battle
front are petting up a stubborn resist
ance, especially east of Kolki, lying to
the north of Lutsk, where they have
forctd lack Russi.-iii advanced ele
ments airosK the Styr river and in the
region of Torgovitsv at Styr south oi
Lutsk, where a sanguinary battle is in
progress.
Since Satiuday night when three
German infantry attacks against the
French trenches on hill No. 3i"4 and
ot'er points in this sector were put
di.'.vn 'bv the French fire, bombard
ments along the line have been in
progress. No changes in position have
taken place here or at any other point,
on the line in France and Belgium
held by the French. British and Bel
gian troop-s. The British around
Yores have r'.qain been heavily shelled
by the Germans.
The Italians claim progress for their
trcops against the Austrians in the
region between the Adige and Brenta
rivers southeast of Trent and announce
tlM repulse, with heavy losses to the
alir"l:ers. of Austrians endeavoring to
capture Monte lemerle southwest of
(Continued on Page Two)
The Eritish official statement ties vp to the end of May give these
quotes the German casualty lists for! totals:
the month of May as placing the total Dead., 7:54,412 : wounded, 1,851,652.
German losses in killed, prisoners and Prisoners and missing, 3C8.522. Total,
wovnded at 102.507. This number, it is1 2,204,58(1.
(Continued on Page Eight)
o
Champ Guesses
Wilson Will Win
Race In Walk
Ralph K. Williams Is national com
mitteeman frcm Oregon, which was
one of the first states to declare for
Hughes. Fied C. Tt-nner is republican
state chairman of New York, and was
an active supporter of Hughes. Jos.
B. Kealing of Indiana is a life-long
fr'end and close personal associate of
C. W. Fairbanks. Charles tt. Warren j Philadelphia June 29. for meetings of
I VOTE OF CONFIDENCE SO
facto troops, charged with being iden
tified with bandits.
Incoming trains from Mexico today
continued to bring Americans and
other foreigners to the border. The
refugees said they were leaving tho
country owing to serious political
conditions.
Ill CABINET RESIGNS
is national committeeman from Mlcn-
igan.
Henry' Allen of Kansas, one of the
leaders at the progressive national
convention today declared he would
support Hughes. A number of Roose-
repul lican national committee, and v-U delegates to the republican na
was in charge of the New York head- tii nnl convention also called on Mr.
quarters, during the campaign of The- ! Hitchcock if pledge their support.
advertlsin? men.
Mr. Wilscn probably will receive of
ficial notification of his re-nomination
at Shadow Lawn, the estate he has
taken for the summer in New Jersey.
A'thoiigh he plans to remain in Wash
ington until congress adjourns, he
probably will make a brief visit to
Shadow I.awn for the occision.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON; June 11. Speaker
Champ Clark issued a statement today
blaming the republicans for selecting
a justice of the supreme court as
candidate for the presidency and the
prigresKives for nominating Colonel
Roosevelt, "in violation of the two
term rule.'' .
"If Colonel Roosevelt accepts the
nomination of the Bull Moosers, Wood
row Wilson will win in a walk," said
the speaker.
'If Cr.lonel Roosevelt declines the
nomination and supports Mr. Justice
Hughes, it will be wh-.it my Kentucky
friends call a 'boss race.' with the odds
very much in favor of Woodrow Wil
son.
'Some philosophers claim thare is
nothing in luck. President WilsujVs
career should convince them. The reg
ular republicans and the Buul Moos
ers might have agreed on some man
nf ability, who would not have been
confronted with the wise and whole
some precedents of more than a cen
tury." . ,
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, June 11. The Italian
cabinet headed by Premier Salandra
resigned today. This action of the
ministry resulted from the failure of
the Italian chamber of deputies yester
day to pass a vote of confidence in the
government following the presentation
of the budget of the ministry of the
interior.
A Rome dispatch reached here today
by wireless telegraph, saying the min
isterial crisis would soon be ended. All
political parties, it was contended,
favored a national ministry containing
Baron Sonnino, th minister of for
eign affairs, and the present military
aids. t
suiting Antonio Sr.landra, the resigning
premier; will seek the views of Baron.
Sonnino, the foreign minister, the
presidents of the -senate and chamber
of deputies, and the wearers of the
collar of the Order ot Annunziota, in
cluding ex-Premiers crioiitti and Luz-zatti.
Another Report
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., June 11.
Mexican bandits raided the. Coleman
ranch,' about 25 miles northwest of
Laredo last night, and were driven
back across the border today by a
troop of the Fourteenth cavalry under
Capt. Ola W. Bell. The bandits drove
off eighty horses, but did no damage
to the ranch property.
The raid was reported to head
quarters by General Mann at Laredo,
who was in charge of the situation.
Tt is expected he will send reinforce
ments to General Bell, who is without
(Continued on Page Two)
Of National Character
ROJ1K, June 11. (Via Paris) All
parties agree that the new Italian cab-
j inei must nave a national cnaracier. it
is suggested that it comprise all the
leading statesmen with a view to unit
ing in the supreme struggle all politi
cal opinions, except that of the intren
sigeant socialists, about forty of whom
oppose the war as a principle. From all
sides a rapid solution of the crisis is
urged owing to the gravity of the mo
ment. King Victc - Emmanuel, besides con-
New Mexican Company Of
Militia Is Mustered In
Republican A, P. Leased Wire
COLl'MBUS, N. M June 11. Com
pany E. of the New Mexico National
Guard, a Santa Fe organization, was
mustered into the United States ser
vice today with a full peace comple
ment of sixty-five men and officers.
Lieutenant O. L. lli-unzell, mustering
officer, asserted mustering probably
will continue through the next week.
Harry Herring, adjutant general of
the guard, made a statement today in
which he denied publiened reports that
New Mexkico is attempting to obtain
recruits from citizens' training camps
In the southwest and pointed out that
recruits are. arriving daily from
throughout the state.
j Reports today from General J. J.
Pershing, expeditionary commander at
Colonia Dublan, indicated quiet every
where along the American line of communication.
Circulars denouncing the presence of
American soldiers on Mexican soil
have made their appearance at Casas
Grandes and Colonia Dublan, accord
ing to reports received here tonight di
rect from Casas Grandes. The man
ager of a ranch in the neighborhood of
those towns is said to have complained
to General Pershing that men dressed
as Mexican soldiers have been running
off cattle from his lands.
I
(
