4 "W
VOLUME TWENTY-THREE
ARDMORE, OKLAHOMA, MONDAY, JUNE 12, 1916.
NUMBER 213.
H E ES IS OPENED E CI
PIN WITH CONFERENCE TODAY
TELLS PARTY LEADERS IN NEW YORK HE IS ANXIOUS
FOR THE FRAY AND WILL GET ACTIVELY INTO THE
FIGHT.
f
Having Been out of Touch with Politics for the Past Six Years,
His Visit to New York is to Get First-Hand Information
and Guidance from His Friends First Organized Po
litical Move in Hughes' Behalf Announced from New York
with Revival of the Hughes Alliance, an Organization
Made up of Republicans, Demo s and Independents,
Which Was Last Active in Nine.,, ight During Hughes
Second Campaign for the Gover 'n Hughes is Ex
pected to Meet Roosevelt while in Nfc -k Kansas fro
gressive says he will support Mugnes y
velt's Support of the Republican Nominee
'edicts Roose-
GUI SELECTED
FOB CII1
FORMER NEW YORK GOVERNOR
AGREED UPON BY DEMOCRATIC
COMMITTEE.
CHEERS FOR M'COMBS
Sub-Committee of Tom Taggart, Nor
man Mack and William Sapp of
Kansas Appointed to Hear Poindex-ter-Love
Contest.
St. Louis, Mo., June 12. The demo
cratic national committee today se
lected former Governor Glynn of New
Din s
SING TO EAST
GERMANS NOW CENTERING AT
TACKS ON FRENCH POSITIONS
NEAR SOUVILLE.
MAY WEAKEN LINES
If Fort Souville Falls to the Germans,
French May Be Forced to Abandon
Their Entire Line and Fall Back on
Inner Defenses.
London, June 12. The German at
tack has swung to the east of the
Meuse and the French postions near
New York, June 12.
Charles E. Hughes, the repub
lican nominee for president,
jumped into the race today
with his first campaign confer
ence with party leaders here.
His friends say that he is an
xious to get into, the fight ac
tively. He has been out of
touch with politics for the past
six years and that his visit here
was to get information and
guidance from close New York
friends.
The first organized political
move in furtherance of Hughes'
election, was announced today
in the revival of the Hugnes
alliance, an organization of re
publicans, democrats and inde
pendent voters, which was last
.active in 1908 during Hughes'
second campaign for governor
and which will co-operate with
the regular republican organi
zation. Hughes Will possibly meet
Roosevelt while in New York.
Murdock May Head Moosers.
St. Ixniis, Mo., June 12 Henry
Alien White, the Kansas progressiv
leader, who has announced that he
will support Hughes, predicted today
that Roosevelt will actively support
Hughes, and said "If Roosevelt ac
cepts the splendid Hughes statement
the majority of the progressives
the central and northern states will
do likewise. Allen said Governor
Johnson is going to Oyster Bay to
urge Roosevelt's acceptance of the
progressive nomination, and if he
fails, Victor Murdock might be made
the progressive standard bearer.
DEMOCRATS TURN FROM WATCHING FOES
TO THEIR OWN NATIONAL CONVENTION
WOMAN ANSWERS SUMMONS.
Through Mistake In Rolls, Woman
Appears for Jury Service.
riiKkntrP. Okla.. June 12.
Thrnntrh mistake in the jury rolls,
a woman, who answered to the name
of H. O. Duncan, appeared for Jury
service today in the trial of Corley
- r - . ,.lw,..l (annual1 wtlft tS
charged with the murder of one of
his pupils in the basement of a school
at Wagoner.
The court asked the woman if she
was II. O. Duncan of Oktaha, and
she replied: "Yes, I'm ready to serve
on the jury." She was Immediately
excused.
- GOLTRA-ONE OF
IStf.HEA ST.. LOUIS' 'V
tk H0STS L .
5tS 9 HAPGOOD SAYS, ' r JL , .
TO;-' ' T f "EVERYBODY t gyP X t
Vv-w V: '' -1 FOR WILSON!" NfSW K '
in I f-t M f Wy T-rt "ill ,
J W STAli Kansas lZf
' i ii, ,n ..ni- - r - i ' wr. i .1' i i. i innnri jiii " , ' W - ..'I
WASHINGTON DOES NOT CON-
-scttrv Eaaa' "'" " . -
CEflLWORRy ABOUT MEXICO
SITUATION AGGRAVATED TODAY BY REPORTS OF THE
SPREAD OF ANTI-AMERICAN FEELING THROUGH
NORTHERN MEXICO.
Carranza Authorities Seem to be Indifferent to What is Going
on, and the Anti-American Riots Continue Unchecked
Overnight Reports to Funston Added Nothing to the In
formation of Yesterday Regarding the Raids Near Laredo
and the Scouting Expeditions of Captain Bell, Who is Said
to Have Followed the Mexican Raiders to the Border De
partment Headquarters at San Antonio Without Details of
the Raid on the Coleman Ranch, Raiders Carrying Away
Horses from the American Ranches, also Two Americans
Who Were Later Released.
MOBS
HEBE THE MILE
HERE SUNDAY
GAS WAS SHUT OFF TO MAKE
CONNECTION WITH BIG GASSER
IN FIELD AND FIRES WENT
OUT AT NOON.
Washington, June 12. Of
ficials here are not attempting1
today to conceal their anxiety
over the Mexican situation,
which has been aggravated to
day by the reports of the
spread of the Anti-American
feeling in northern Mexico.
The Carranza authorities are
reported as being indifferent to
what is going on.
MILLING PLANT DESTROYED
"Lightning Causes Lost ofSixty Thou
sand Dollars to Property.
Celina, Collin County, Tex., June
11. Lightning struck the Celina Mill
and Elevator company this morning
about one o'clock, destroy-in? the
mill and two warehouses and damag
ing the surrounding buildings.
Estimate of loss is about $00,000,
with $33,000 insurance.
Dies at Fort Worth.
Fred Ray Conner, the Infant son
of Mr. and Mrs. J. Fred Conner of
this city, died at Fort Worth yester
day, where Mrs. Conner was visiting
friends. Mr. Conner, who is con-
aaaannattnaa
a a
a WEATHER FORECAST a
a a
a New Orleans, La., June 12. a
a The weather forecast for a
a Oklahoma for tonight and a
a Tuesday is generally fair; a
a slightly warmer Tuesday. a
a -a
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
St. Louis, June 12. Before the republican and the progressive conventions in Chicago had decided on their separate
and collective courses of action, the democrats began the final arrangements for their big meeting in St. Louis
to renominate President Wilson. National Democratic Committeeman Edward F. Goltra of St. Iouis returned to
St. Louis from Chicago and said that a comparison of arrangements at the Coliseum here with the arrangements
in Chicago convinces him that St. Louis is much better prepared to take charge of delegates and visitors. The
matter of the presidential nomination being settled, and Marshall virtually sure of renomination. the question of
the campaign manager btxomes important. Fred B. Lynch of Minnesota is mentioned prominently to succeed
McCombs. Norman E. Mack of New York, who managed the Uryan campaign in 1908, will not it is thought, be
chosen, but he will be conspicuous at the convention. Senator William II. ThoniDson. democrat, of Kansas rep
resents a neighboring state and feels quite at home here. Norman Hapgood. editor and head of the Wilson
Nonpartisan league, is among the busiest bees of the democratic party just now.
Yesterday while dinners were being
prepared for Ardmores' hungry, the
gas which up to the very noon hour
had been fairly good gave one de
spairing flicker and died completely
out.
Consternation captured the cooks,
what to do was the question. Dinners
were about half prepared, with the
best of it yet in the making, and no
fire to be had. Fires were hastily
improvised in many ways. Some
finished their dinner where the wash
pot is wont to boll in the back yards
while others ate what was in sight,
and let it go at that.
The reason for this was the fact
that the gas company was coupling
its mains with the big Gypsy well ia
the Fox field and in order to do this
it was nece isary to shut off the gas
completely until the workmen could
couple the pipes. The pressure was
resumed at two o'clock, and at pres
ent reminds one of the first days
when natural gas was a novelty in
the city. Officials of the gas com
pany stated this morning that they
believe the gas trouble in the city Is
over and they are going to do their
utmost to keep the pressure where
it ia today.
This work would have been com
pleted long ago had the company been
able to secure the pipe, but the steel
mills refused to ship as long as they
were supplying war orders, and the
company had to wait.
Rent that room with a want ad.
Funston Without Details.
San Antonio, Tex., June 12. Tho
overnight reports to General Funston
added nothing to the information re
garding the raids near Laredo and
tlie scouting expedition of General illell
who is said to have followed a num
ber of the Mexican bandits to tho
border, after the latter had raided
the Coleman ranch nt San Samuel,
near there. No detailed report has
been received at the department head
quarters here.
Two Americans Were Prisoners.
Laredo, Tex., Juno 12. Two bold
raids by Mexican bandits occurred
within forty miles of Laredo Saturday.
Saturday morning, a large party of
Mexican bandits, who are said to
have been led by Louis De Ia Rosa,
appeared on the Coleman ranch near
l'alafox, thirty-five miles northeast
of Laredo, and began rounding up a
large herd of horses, the bandits
driving them toward a corral. Two
American cowboys, George Conover
and Arthur Myers, who were on the
ranch, with a Mexican cowboy hur
ried to the scene of the roundup.
Seeing the Americans, the raiders
stampeded the horses and captured,
the two Americans, whom they held
hostage until Saturday night, when
they were released. Early Sunday
morning, George Alexander, foreman
of tho Coleman ranch at San Samuel
on the American side, started for
Webb with eighty horses. Twelve
miles from the border, Alexander
and his party were attacked by a
band of Mexicans, exandcr, real
ing he could not cope with the ban
dits, hurried to Minerva, where he
gave the alarm to the American cav
CONTINUED ON PAGE EIGHT
nected with the Coca Cola Bottling
Works, left today for Fort Worth to
attend the funeral.
Dies at Soldiers' Home.
W. G. Goodson, aged 78, an inmate
of the Confederate home, died at that
institution last night. The funeral
services will be conducted from the
home this afternoon, with interment
in the soldiers' plot at Rose Hill
Cemetery.
BRITISH PROVE DREADNAUGHT
WARSPRITE IS SAFE
London, June H. In proof of the
statement of the British admiralty
that the dreadnaught Warsprite ar
rived safely in port after the North
Sea battle, the commander of the
Warsprite himself received an Asso
ciated Press correspondent today and
described his vessel's "miraculous es
cape' from the concentrated German
fire.
York temporary chairman to deliver
the keynote speech at the democratic
national convention. Retiring Chair
man McCombs was loudly cheered.
In the contest between Thomas
Love and William Poindexter, from
Texas, for national committeeman,
McCombs appointed Thomas Taggart,
Norman E. Mack and William Sapp
of Kansas as a sub-committee to hear
both sides and report to the new na
tional committee immediately the con
vention is over.
Bryan is expected to appear at the
open' hearings of the resolutions com
mittee and urge planks on peace and
prohibition. Otherwise friends say
that although he will support the
president, he is not expected to take
part in the convention.
The vice-presidential possibilities
includ Roger Sullivan of Chicago,
Secretary of War Baker, Senator
(CONTINUED ON PAGE EIGHT!
Forts Souville and Tavannes, south
of Fort Vaux, are being heavily bom
barded. The fall of Fort Souville, if accom
plished, might compel the French to
abandon their entire line and fall
back on their inner defenses.
The Russian advance in Galicia and
Volhynia is apparently unchecked.
Russians Near Czernowltz.
Petrograd, June 12. The Russian
troops yesterday approached the out
skirts of Czernowitz, capital of Buko
wina, it is officially announced today.
Russian Were Repulsed.
Berlin, June 12. The war office
announced today that the Russians
were repulsed northeast of Buczacz,
Galicia, thirteen hundred being captured.
Read tn anl a as.
INCREASE OF LOCAL WEALTH
That Ardmore presents the most phenomenal situa
tion so far as its growth as a financial center is demon
strated by the consolidated report of all banks which has
just been compiled. One year ago the combined loans of
all institutions was $1,541,000. Today it is $1,796,000.
The deposits a year ago was $1,603,000, while today
the amount exceeds the three million dollar mark.
A year ago the indebtedness was $140,000, and today
not a cent.
Incorporated in the story of this year's growth are
points which must appeal to every man, woman and child
in Ardmore, for they signify to a large extent just what
is in store for Ardmore rather than the strength of the
institutions themselves. These figures represent "home
finances" very largely, as all know that foreign corpora
tions do not carry any more money in the banks here
than their local needs call for.
One banking institution alone has today but very lit
tle less in deposits than all four had one year ago, while
every one of them shows an increase which is almost in
credible. Can it be wondered that men of finance are
beginning to point with considerable emphasis to Ard
more's future. As one man pointedly put it, "Ardmore
today has more local capital, greater banking facilities,
ten times the natural resources. that Tulsa had six years
ago. Is it any wonder that the working man, the artisan
and clerk, as well as the banker and capitalist, is begin
ning to take an active interest in local affairs, and can it
be wondered at that some of slender means are offer
ing to contribute their share to the upbuilding of the city.
J
