THE BARRE DAI EY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 75.
BARRE, VERMONT, MONDAY, JUNE 12, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
ATTACK FAILED
COMPLETELY
German Infantry Made Ef-
. fort to Advance West,
of Fort Vaux
POSSIBLY A TORPEDO
SANK NORWAY $HIP
The Steamer Burr's Survivors Have Been
Taken to Port at Ymuiden, Nether
lands Swedish Steamer
Also Sunk.
Ymuiden, Netherlands, via London
June 12. Fifteen members of the crew
of the Norwegian steamer Burr have
landed here. Their ship wag aunk either
by a mine o torpedo.
ARE BOMBARDING
London, June 12. The Swedish steam
er Emmy has been destroyed by a mine
off . .t a Is tor, according to a Reuter dis
TOWARD NEW FORTS Zttwwu'mtd
explosion and four others were drowned,
Heavy Artillery Is Turned
on Souyille and Ta-
camies Forts
SALANDRA CABINET OUT.
National Ministry is Said to Be Favored
" Now.
London, June 12. The Italian cabinet,
headed by Premier Salandra, resigned
yesterday. This action of the ministry
resulted from the failure of the Italian
ithamka. ntf .1 . '. i-' .. - ......
Pans, June 12.-Grman infantry at- j . LrnJUt
tacked French' positions west of , Fprt f0lowinc the presentation of the budget
aux on the verdun front last night, ol the ministry of the interior.
The assault failed entirely, to-day's oiii- A Rome dispatch received here ytster-
rial report says. The Germans continued 21- T. . i j "t j ; ,
lisf,rifll criuia wr-mlrl snnn Hp onHiwI All
a heavy bombardment ot tne region political parties, it was-contended. fa-
north' of Souville .and Taeannes forts, jvored a national party containing Baron
West of the Meuse there was "heavy ar- fconnino, the minister of foreign affairs.
I J 1L. A. till ' A
tillery action in the vicinity of Chattau- "u m.ry .""
COUrt, Unm. via Pari. .Inn. t9. 411 ivariipa
The official statement issued last night agree that the new Italian cabinet must
Was as follows i pave a national character. It is suggest-
"On the front north of Verdun no in- ett that it comprise all the leading states-
fantry action was reported during the ulen " ' .
f jo rw artnw, .pfiv.lv preme struggle all political opinions ex
u.oc vr, ' J v' . ' J L n. ! i CS--S.
which bombarded particularly in the re- "hout'f0 ofwhom oppow the war as a
ginn south of the Thiaumont farm and principle. From all sides a rapid solu
west of Fort Vaux. tlon f th, "w 18 urel 8 t?. lh"
"The day was calm on the rest of the , . .
front, evnent in rflmnnm where, the ar. "utl uesiuea TOnaimiug
tiller action took on a character of Sandra, the resigning premier will seek
great intensity in the sector of Tahur- v ew8 or waron aonnino, rne foreign
"Situation from June 4 to June 10 a,m li,e "T " .
The action commenced June 1 on a front er or ,r oi vm ,
of five kilometers from Thiaumont farm mc.uu.ng ex-x renuer u.o.,v-
to the village of Damloup inclusive was tl antl Luzzattl.
continued with extreme violence during
the whole weeek from the 4th to the
10th. More than six divisions of Ger
mans were engaged, -two of which were
newly brought up one from the Balkans,
the other from the western front.
CZERNOWITZ
MAYSOON FALL
Russian Troops Reach Out-
. skirts of Bukowina
Capital
BOY SCOUTS ENTERTAINED.
V
OFFICIAL STATEMENT
BY WAR OFFICE
Splendid Time for Troop 2 Held Saturday
Evening.
Troop 2 of the Boy Scouts of, America.
got together in the vestry of the Congre
gational church Saturday evening for a
farewell banquet for the season; and
everyone present voted it the best time
they had had during the year, which is
saying a good deal, foe it has been a
year of good times." Most of the boys
were not aware of what was doing, and
were very much surprised when they
came into their usual meeting place to
find, the tables arranged in a ouadrangle
and loaded with eats They were not WOULD NOT DISCUSS
nny 'in iiiiuui llinu )lllceB, WUJVII wri
indicated by their membership cards for
next year, in lieu of place cards. After
a brief prayer by Pr. Barnctt, the chap
lain of the troop, the boys fell to and
HUGHES GETS
RIGHTTOWORK
The Republican Candidate
Reached New York Early
This Morning
POLITICAL OUTLOOK
rV,,,-; T oef MirrM oon ttle were cleared, but not be
vumaiuiiivauuii fore every boy was filled uo. ;
Tells of Great Amount
of Booty Taken
retrograd, June 12. Russian troops
There Is a Rumor That He
Will See Theodore
Roosevelt
New York, June 12 Charles E. Hughes
! NEGOTIATIONS CAME
TO A SUDDEN HALT
"In the night of June 34 and the When The Railroads Submitted Counter
day of June 4 the enemy sought to tiank
Fort vaux by the south. He was
stopped by our trenches south of the
fort and was driven back on two occa
sions bv counter-attacks on the battery
at Damloup where he had succeeded in
penetrating. He entered also the village
of Damloup which he held at the end.
Several attacks were stopped by our fire
north of Fort Vaux on the eastern out
skirts of Funtin wood.
On the 5th day of June we repulsed
two debouching attacks, one at Damloup,
the other northeast of Fort Vaux,
"On June 7 a violent offensive against
our trenches at the approaches to Fort
Vaux failed. The same day the fort it
self in which desperate fighting had been
carried on from June 2 fell into the
hands of the enemy.
"On June 8 the enemy renewed his
assaults throughout the day from north
Thiaumont farm to the Vaux ravine
and succeeded in occuping several of our
trenches in the neighborhood of the farm
and mar the Caillette wood. I
"On the left bank of the Meuse at
tacks on Hill' 304 were repulsed on
June 4, on the nights of June 8 and
9 and especially on the day of, the 9th
of which the. enemy made several at
tempts with the employment of bomb
throwers. ,
Proposition to Their '350,000 Em
ployes Who Want Increased
Wages.";"
New York, June 12.-The conference
between the representatives of, the rail
roads and their 350,000 employes, called
to avert the threatened strike, came to
a sudden halt shortly after resuming
its session to-day when the railroads sub
mitted a counter-proposition to the men's
demands for increased wtagas.
HILLEGAS WAS SPEAKER.
MEXICO CITY THREATENED.
Zapata with Well-Equipped Force is Only
35 Miles Away,
New York. June 12. Zapata, the Mex
; ican factional leader, is encamped with
a large body of well-equipped men with
in 30 miles of Mexico City, and an at
tack is expected any time, according to
Howard Francis, an engineer recently
nn(cted with the Mexico City Irani
way company, who arrived to-day. He
described the business conaiwons in -unit)
as chaotic. ' . -
TALK OF THE TOWN
Henry McKay of Marsonneuve, Can
ada, has tirrived in the city and will
spend a few days on business.
Miss Violet Grant has returned to
Hartford. Conn., after spending ft few
davs as guest of friends in the city.
Mrs. Lloyd Macneil of Maple Grove
went Saturday to Brattleboro. where she
will visit her people for a few weeks.
Miss Angelina Tierney of South Main
street went this ' morning to Hartford,
Conn., where she will spend two weeks
with friends and relatives.
Miss Gertrude Brady, a teacher in the
city schools, left this morning for her
home in Fairfield, where she will spend
a greater part of her vacation with her
people.
Walter Milne completed his duties at
the Montpelier & Wells River R. R.
freight depot Saturday night and will
bcc'in work for the firm of Adie A Milne
this week.
Mr. and Mrs. H. S. Parks and daughter,
F.ileen. went this mornimr by automo
bile to Boston. Mass.. where they will
spend a few days with relatives and
friends.
Mrs. D. C. JrU of Orange street re
turned to Barre yesterday after spending
a couple of weeks isitinjf relatives in
Burlineton. Mrs. .tarvis wa accompanied
home by Dr. D. C. .larvis' brother, D. M.
Jarvis, who returned last evening to his
home in Burlington.
Last Saturday evening Mis. Bertena
Ho'ker gave Mis Elizabeth Skinner a
mwirllaneous shower at her home on
prospect street in honor of her approach
ing marriage to C. JJirold Terry of
Plsmfield. The affair was piven in the
form of a surprise party. Miss Skinner
being entirely unaware of the f-t that
they n to meet her then. C. A.
Spre took the presents in one larje
bet to her home and left it as a special
lie'ivery. Painty refreshments of lee
rreaa and cake were serred, after whkh
t-e ptrty of about, thirty in number
broke tip at a rather late hour hairig
spent a very nj"jab!e evec:r.
Before Montpelier High School's Gradu
ating Class.
Montpelier high school's trraduatina
class was addressed last evening in the
nigti sonooi auditorium by Dr. Milu a,
liiilegas, state commissioner-elect of ed
ucation, the speaker having as hi sub
ject, "Making the Most of Life." Th
talk was substituted for the usual
class sermon.
Dr. Hillegaa called ' attention to the
direct financial expense involved in the
support and education, of youth until
they became wage earners. Even the
moet conservating estimate of this ex
pense would make it a sum larger by
far than the average family savings in
this country, he said. The amount would
purchase a high clasa automobile, or
make a substantial first payment upon
a home or a farm. Even the interest on
this investment would go a long way
toward paying the rent of the average
family.
The people who bear the greater part
of this burden of expense are the par
enta, but others furnish a material as
sistance. These others may be bankers,
merchants and successful professional
persons, who can spare the money in
volved without privation, but by far the
greater number of those who contribute
to this investment are bent with toil
and enjoy very few of the luxuries
of life. In other words, the high school
graduate finds himself indebted to every
person in the community.
t.ach person who is thus backed is ex
pected to make a return upon the invest
ment. No one expects to be paid in
kind, but such is the intimate relation
ship that exists between the individual
and the community in which he lives
that his true success is a benefit and his
failure is a direct loss to every other per
son.
The speaker mentioned three particu
lars in which persons who made the most
of life are required to judge relativs
values. The first was in the use of tune;
the second was the control of conduct,
and the third was in the kind of recrea
tion and enjoyments in which the indi
vidual indulges.
Then followed a program, consisting of
toasts by a number of the boys on "What
Meing a Scout Has Meant to Me. Me
Knight, Barclay and Smith responded,
and one would have thought they were
veterans in the art or atter-dlnner.speak-ing
to have heard them. These set the
, . ' .... . pace and others followed In Impromptu
yesterday approacnea tne outsorts or h Th t , ,,,.., w' then came here to-day for his first camnaio-n
Czernowitz, the war office announced to- called, on, and Lane, Watt and Shepard conference. He left Washington after
day. responded. These were followed with a mMmVht. . e-riu w
, . . ... . 3 talk bv cm A R. f ftvt-. whit, i.f A - o --. j 7
ineomcial communication issuea i " ""A " A Vl men. who planned to aecomnamr 'him.
nignt iow ot tremendous nooty iaKen m vkm metU dlrinJf t year Scou,tma- oke to find him gone. One of the chief
me rapid aavar.ee.: reaus as uuu. ter Hubbard then presented some awards questions before Hughes and his friends
wur onensive in voinynia, uaucia na nu insignia ana maae me appointments ito-aay waa the location of his summer
Bukowina obtained fresh success yester- ror1!,1B1'- headquarters.
day. The enemy armies'-continue to lne awards were as follows: Honors Ihe presidential candidate declined to
suffer enormous losses in prisoners alone, j "r excellence m scout work, J. Wendell discuss politics with the newspaper men
"Tlio fierce nttucks of our troons are Sm'tn. John Shepard: J. Cedric Snyder I who souirht to oueation him rsnnlinir
throwing into our hands thousands upon an(i Clifton More. Bonks on scouting and whether he. would see Roosevelt during
thousand of nrisonera and booty of all
first aid were presentd to these. First- his stay. Hughes' secretary suiil tbaf
kinds, the exact estimation ot which u "k wtn wwaea w onrnq, no appointments had been made for a
as vet impossible. , Watt. McKnight and Snyder, .the four conference with the party leaders for
"For instance, in a iintrle sector on the no nln successfully passed their exam- this afternoon.
enemy front, we captured 21 searchlights, "nations, and the second-class badge was The first organized political move fur
2 convoys, 29 field kitchens, 47 trains of tfw to Densmoi. wlio, after just one thering the Hughes campaign was an
machine guns, 12,000 poods of barbed month of scouting, had passed his tests nounced to-day bv Public Service Com
wire l nnnd is enni valent to 3fl rtounds) . I with credit. i , Imissioner Tra vis H. Whi.nev. irhn nlrt
1 lIO enneentre nlariL 7 IYV1 (W cllhen of I The officers for the OOminff 'veer are a about the revival nf fhm
concrete, 10,000 poods of coal, enormous 1 Wows: Scoutmaster, "John T. Hubbard; composed of Democratic and independent
depots of ammunition and quantities ot I ; " """r omnn j &a a. . voters who came into existence during
arms and other material. xtcrj cnapura, ur. the second Hughe campaign for gover-
"In another sector we captured 30,000 frn'w "ent,0J 1 " f.ine; jun- nor of New York in 1908. It was said
rifle rurtriiliTea 3(in Knven of msrhine mm lor L., John C. Watt and John B. I that the an me men irlontifi.l vit.h 4h
cartridges, 200 boxes of hand grenades, Shepard; Asst. P. L., J. Wendell Smith; Hughes Alliance have, decided to get to-
l,m usable rifles four machine guns, I """"H". renu uaumiec; igetner to work in Htw York state for
range finders, 'and a Norton portable Reid Barclay; treasurer, aif- Hughes.
pump for the extraction of drinking I , Hughes received the newspaper men
water. . iwr u.ese appointments had neen later at his hotel and said, replying to
The capture of such enormous war maa J-""- trnett ws called on, and U question how it felt to be drafted for
materials prepared by the" enemy for va- faB a tal 10 tne bo' bout the work the biggest job in the world: "1 can
of bow tlley "ad done, and urged them all to
opportune was our coup against the en- pITat,T efforts or the future. He then stances under which the matter of duty
emv. r" " K " 1 . "WKing me ls supremely clear and leaves no ground
"During yesterday's fighting, we took P8 rfcora during the vacation period ; fw hesitancy. There was no question
as prisoners 1 glenerai, 'Hi onicers ana -'-"" "'"""in tins situation as to what I should
35,100 soldiers; we also captured 30 guns, Pr,f- " " r it tie, 1st A. S. M. do. I did it and in my announcement to
3 machine guns and 5 bomb throwers. tht people I endeavored to make ray at-
This makes the total trophies in the re- l . ociock tne anair came to a titude clear."
cent operations, I general, 1.B49 officers, fTf,' "nd ftT hfari? "' boom Hughes spent the forenoon receiving
MAGNUS NICHOLS.
an1 mnrn than lftft OfHI inMiora nA ti OA tflft DOV Went flOttie, deterimned tO L,ll.r. CV,,.1 lg 11 -'I .U rM "
guns, ISO machine guns, and 58 bomb P troop 2 of Barre the best troop of Wickersham. former attorney general,
throwers. boy scouts m America. conferred with the candidate b.it declined
"Near Rojitehe, on the Styr near Lutsk, I , ..... . to state the object of . his visit or to
the Ormans attempted to render assist-1 MANY FROM kfiftt idisenss the Tumors that he waa acting
ance to me Ausrnans, mil oy our inran-1 - ' -r : las mediator in plans to obtain rrogres
try attack deUvered under cover of heavy . . Fon.r.tlf rT'v for the Republican candi
artuiorv tney were aisioogea irom tne -"lv"i "wuidat.
Pretty Wedding at St. Monica's Church
This Morninj,
A pretty June wedding waa celebrated
at St. Monicas church this morning a
8 o'clock when Miss Susan Loretta Nicb
ols, daughter of Mrs. M. B. Nichols of
Richardson street, was married to Ltf
gene W. Magnus of Waterbury, the par
lsh priest, Kev. Fr. P. M. McKenna, per
forming the ceremony in the presence o
a large gathering of friends, the double
ring service being used. The bride was
attended by Miss Madeline Williams, and
Joseph Smith of Waterbury acted as
groomsman. During the nuptial mass
airs. John Hartigan sang and the wed
ding march was played by Miss Ruth
nelson. Bride and groom, with their at
tendants, approached the altar from dif
ferent aisles, in conformance to. an old
custom.
The bride was gowned in grsy pussy
wuiow tatteta trimmed with gray chit
fon and rose silk. She wore a picture
nat and carried a bouquet of pink roses.
Her bridesmaid wore peach colored crepe
meteor trimmed with pink chiffon. She
carried pink roses. After the ceremony,
a wedding breakfast was served at the
home of the bride's mother, where the
dining room was attractively decorated
to carry out a color scheme of pink and
white. Misses Gertrude Geake and Mary
McCarthy served and Mrs. C. N. Benedict
catered. Jjiter in the morning Mr. and
Mrs. Magnus left by motor for Bethel
Conn., where they are to pass their hon
eymoon, ihey will be at home in Wat
erbury after July 1.
Mr. and Mrs. Magnus were the recipi
ents of many wedding gifts. The bride
is a well known Barre woman, who was
engaged until recently as an assistant to
the secretary of the Granite Manufac
turers' association. She was graduated
from Goddard seminary in the class of
1912. Mr. Magnus is a, graduate of Nor
wich university at Northfield and for
several -years h has been assistant su
perintendent of the Magnesic Talc Co. in
Waterbury.
Among those who were here from out
of town to attend the wedding were Mr.
and Mrs. Seanlon and Mr.' and Mrs. Jo
seph Smith of Waterbury
MORTIMER ROGERS.
Barre Girl and Montpelier Man Married
at Bride's Home.
BLEW SAFE
BUT COU'.O
WIM IT
V.
Yeggmen. .led at WiU
liamstr When Heavy
Safe Tipped Forward on
Its Face and Left Aper
ture Just Large : Enough
for Partial Insertion of an
Arm
CONTENTS INTACT; $3
IN CASH TILL STOLEN
A
Several Nearby Dwellers Re
call Hearing an Unusual
Sound Between 2 and 3
O'clock This Morning
Burglars Knocked Off the
Safe Door Handle and In
serted Explosive in the
Hole
FIVE CONTESTS ON
to Pass Upon Them and- to Make
Final Convention Arrangements,
j i. . i 1 1 -.1 r -: . t . I o
W,B Pifc o. ""PPO". There were many floral tributes, includ
forcing the enemy to surrender. Besides : . ,.,u.. : . ,
j- i j .v t v -i- m8 number of set pieces from or gam
dislodging the enemy from hisposition miong wjth .,,:.. tlf ,lp,.PJ1M, f,
thev were dislodged
town, losing over 2,000 prisoners, two I . T his Morning.
guns and some machine guns, our troops n,, funeral 0f O. N. Canton, a nmmi. nr"f APD A TG tl A iri?
nursued the retreat ng Germans. x , . r - iu.uuviwiiu axra mu
" . uiifiitc iminuiactiirer. wnns
... ii"u i neatJi ar. tun hnmo i i.,i
Dubno (one of the fortresses comprising Thursdav fnnlli . "i ni'
the Volhynian triangle) captured the nN,H. w,. hM in.ut nt-w.'
town and the fort and are on the enemy's thiM morning t a v'it d... A National Committee Gathers at St. Louis
c-, j...u.f..w Moore of Worcester, Mass., officiating
ing me w river nave ueveiopea meir Xhe fonrer were: James T. Marrion,
AfTanaii' A rvart nf th Knaaiana rwviu l i 1
' j .u 1 -.L nariey v. Mevens, A. II. Burke. A. J.
nied the reoion of the village of Damv- I i- r . . . .. .
.1- vfi A -"'"-. - "wens ana ,i. a. Heaiy. Kt rMl;. rn. i irelimin.r o the
opening of the Democratic national con
vention, members of the national corn-
north of Boutchatehie, we made many fliiat,i in, 'f A. .A .u .' mittee were here to-day to pass upon the
prisoners there and also took a great lf: th! UthollC arrangements. The committee also
ouantitv of arm a. , , J . , v p ' , I has before it five seat contests.
v i rv 1 1 1 1 ' 1 1 lt LMiNfl ironi our. nr rrj-vir uihri i - - , j.
"We overthrew the enemy on the attl,nA., nx, ' V, .. 1 nrst session ot tne convention win
Stripa. Near Ossovitzie, north of Bout- L"";".7. AuL " . ' . A l li P hed Wednesday . The platform will
chatchie, one of our regiments captured a L T:. V V : . be adopted Friday morning and the tick
complete battery of four ten-centimeter .. V, "' f A"cl"n'c,ra, n,s H Friy evening. Early trains
ors. rwl ; V V V "T"' i Jetn to-day brought scores of delegates and
"Despite the enemy's desperate resist- c, rTTAVA,'' p A u " visitors and there is every indication
ance, his violent flank and curtain fire, "ntn Z , I JlZl T"" .tftn' there will be a large attendaiK-e at-the
Hwrnin v, i.i, .11' ..liiwsnm VI Jllllim, if. I , ( ! 1 .. . , ., I v . . - ........
-i rr- uii i . . j I .unry ana .urE. rranK n yae Ot r-a-
Gen. Techltskyn s troops captured an en-1 1. X,A. . j A V, i
ii ., ! . . 1cm, Mass., Mr. and Mrs. D. M. Hurley
emv position south of Dobronovtre, 20 .un A t -, -j V , :
versts northeast of Czernowits (Buko- ,,,.. D , . . , ,
ian'.r. n i i7 m.r, ..j ll,m Kingston, 8muel Kingston and Two Men Drove Two-Horse Team Over
, ., v.,.v .c .... . I ...j, Kmralnn nf YnrthfleM Mr. Anna . . . n
18,000 men, and captured ten guns and at V 'Z ' x- a . , ' V Banlc x-vemnj.
me lime tus renon in aispatcnea pm i,. . r.,..i: w uvicrhf nA .Tm nf Wil
oners are srui coming in. n u-hoo. V. nf m.' Iiamstown. whose two-horse team met
There were many floral tributes, as w'tn a mienap on me mrre roaa near
follows: 47 roses, family; anchor, the traction company s carbarns last
brothers: cross, employes of Canton evening, pleaded guilty -in aiontpelier city
Bros.: mllowi Barre liranite and Ouarrv eourt this forenoon to first offenses of
BLOCKED RAILROAD TRACK.
KILLED BY SHOT.
Lawrence Man Was Slain During Quar
rel in Boardinghouse.
Lawrence. Mass.. June 12. Kost Bo-
darouk, a mill worker, was killed ves-
Southeast of Zale Swizyky, by an en
ergetic coup we overthrew the enemy
who retreated. The enemy blew up the
lourkoutr. railway station. Turkoman
cavalry charged the retreating cavalry
and turned his rear into a disorderly
rout.
"In attempts to save the situation, the
enemy at many places made furious
counter-attacka. Among others at dawn
Saturday in the region of Scmki, east
of Kolki, numerically superior forces at
tacked our advanced elements and under
over of a concentration of their fire
forced them back over the Stvr. But
the same day we arrested all ulterior
developments of this offense.
The enemy is resisting with special
desperation in the region of Trogovitsy
in the htvr, south of J.utzk. where he is
fighting with sanguinary fury.
"The total results of the violent at
tacks of onr troops carried out from the
4th to the 10th without giving the enemy
a moment's respite, place in strong relief
the fact that they have forced the en
emy's organized lines on the vast front
from the wooded region of southwest
Russia to the Rumanian frontier.
'Caucasus region The Turks made re
peated attacks on our positions in the
I'latana region, but were repulsed with
heavy losses, abandoning in front of our
terday when a revolver was discharged trenches hundreds of dad. In the direc-
during boardinghouse quarrel. The
police, on information of Mrs. Mary
(rtiralik, who condurted the house, are
seeking a young hoarder, who wa
present and disappeared after the
shooting. Lowe!!. Wakefield. Reading
and liarerhill officials were asked to
search for hire.
GRAKITEVILLE.
Meeting of branch No. li Q. W. I. U.
of X. A., will in be held in MJes' hall on
Wednesday evening, June 14, at 7:30
oVlo V. Nomination of officers and e!r-
tmn of delegate to the M-ste c"tient-on.
A poot attendance is desired. P. .1. Fin-
b ;, ee.
tion of fJumessan. we have occupied first
line enemy trenches. In the direction of
Dirberkr. we are advancing and have
made prisoners and captured boxes of
ammunition."
CLAIM RUSSIAN REPULSE
company; American Beauties, Boutwell, intoxication and each expressed a desire
Milne 4 Varnum Groses, Mr. and Mrs. A. P.v finB of ?5 nd o09 of 6-"5
H. Burke. Mrs. F. H. Huike. Mr. and Mrs. rather than serve the alternative sen
Fred Bird, Ed. McNulty, Harry Kelly, J. tpn" j"''- hif of VoV Connolly
Alfred Healv, Mr. and Mrs. Martin Riley, and Officer Frank Baldwin were called to
jr., Mr. and Mrs. II. I). Stevens. Mr. scene of the accident about 8 o'clock
and Mrs. F. A. Uh.ircn, Mr. and Mrs D. evening. It having been reported that
M. Hurley, Mrs. Anna Mahonev, Mrs. team had fallen over the bank near the
Frank Hyde, Mrs. Ellen Canton; car- tracks of th tentral ermont railroad,
nations, Mr. and Mrs. A. Cauthicr. Mr. The branch train was forced to stop on
and Mrs. Charles Emslie, Angie Rossi, " trip to Montpelier shortly after 8
Miss Helen Eva Rogers, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Rogers of uppe
Prospect street, and Charles H. Mortimer
of Montpelier were married at the home
of the bride s grandparents, Mr, and Mrs
C. H. Simonds of 6 Beckley court, batur
da-y evening at 8 o'clock. Rev. B. G.
Lipskv, proprietor of the Hedding Meth
odist church, officiated and the ceremony
wa witnessed by a large gathering of
friends and relatives of the bridal party
The bride was attended by Miss Edith
Dale of Montpelier and E. M. Simonds
n uncle of the bride, was the best man
The bride was becomingly gowned in
white silk voile and carried a bouquet of
white roses and carnations. The brides
maid wore old rose silk and carried white
carnations. The parlor, where the cere
mony took place, was prettily decorated
with white and purple lilacs and roses.
The single ring service was used and
after the ceremony the couple left by
automobile on a honeymoon trip through
the White mountains.
McCREADY MchCAITE.
Woman
Barre Man and Websterville
United in Marrige.
Miss Florence McKane, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Willmni McKane of Web
sterville, and William McCready of this
city were united in marriage at 0 o'clock
last Thursday morning at St, Sylvester'a
rectory in Graniteville, Fr. Turcot per
forming the ceremony. They were at
tended by George McKane, a brother of
the bride, and Mies Lena Dubie. The
bride was gowned in blue messaline and
wore a picture hat to match. After the
ceremonv, a wedding breakfast was
served at the bride's home. , Mr. and
Mrs.MeCreadv expect to reside in Web
sterville.
EPISCOPAL CONVENTION.
Will Be Held in Montpelier On June 21
and 22.
Mr. snd Mrs. A. J. Loranger, Mr. and
Mrs. J. Kovalskv. Mr. and Mrs. D. A.
Perry, Mr. and ".Mrs. C. 1). Wheelock,
Miss Beatrice Callaghan, Mr. and Mrs.
George Kand, Mr. and Mrs. William
Kelly. Mr. and Mis. James Fitzgerald.
Mr. and Mrs. John Cleary. Mr. and Mrs.
James Hastings, Mr. and Mrs. Louis De-
Blois, Mr. and Mrs. William Emslie;
carnations and roses. Mr. and Mrs. Meyer
Levin; cross of psnsios, Mrs. .1. Bernard;
wreath; Mr. and Mrs. Charles t hsrhon-
neau and family; pansies, Mr. and Mrs.
A. K. Tassier.
SUICIDE BY STRYCHNINE.
George Mclntyre cf Colchester Died in
Convulsions.
Ml Etti Burley went -terdiT to
Albany, where the will sfnd a few days
with riatirs.
When They Attempted to Advance
Northwest of Buciacx.
Berlin, via London. June 12. Russian
troops attempted to advance northeast of
Buciacx. Gahria. and were repulsed, the
war office announced to-day. and over
1.T.1 Russians were e&ptured-
Colrhester. June 12. George Melntvre
committed suiride Saturday at his home
at Malletts bay by taking strychnine.
He told members of th famjy that he
had taken the prison, which was in an
oince battle, and was used to put on
eorn to kill crows. The familv at fir.-t
o'clock, and Wright and OgR were found
to be ae helpless as the two horses, held
down by the tangled harness. They were
taken to the jail in a jitney.
James Cronin of Barre Town pleaded
guilty to a second offense of intoxication,
having been arrested Saturday night, and
hoped to pav a fine of $15 and costs of
$7.4".
Cecil Pierce, the high school student
who pleaded guilty last week to atealing
a hicjele from Merl Wheeler, was given
a sentence of three months in jail and
was placed on probation under the usual
conditions..
Programs for the 12fith snniial con-
ention of the Vermont Episcopal dio
cese have been issued by Secretary Wlal-
er C. Bernard of Newport, the gathering
to be held in Christ church, Montpelier,
June 21 and 22. There are 37 clergy
men eligible to seats in the convention
and from forty to sixty lay delegates.
The convention will meet for organi
sation Wednesday forenoon at 0 o'clock
nd the opening services will be at 0:30
'clock, the celebration of the Holy Com
munion. Hisnop a. v.. .a. mu, w-no win
preside over the convention, will deliver
a charge.
The business meeting will follow and
will include the election of officers of
the diocese, the reading of the reports
of the officers and the election of dele
gates to the convention to be held at St.
Louia in July. The diocese is entitled
to four delegates from the clergy and
four lavmen.
The evening sesnion of Wednesday will
An unsuccessful attempt was made to
rob the Williametown postoffice early
this morning, the burglars getting noth
ing for their efforts except three dollars
of Postmaster George. E. Wilber's private
account, which was left in the open cash
drawer. That the booty was not larger
was due to the fiact that the safe, on be
ing blown, tipped onto its face against
the partially open door so that there was
barely room for insertion of a man's arm
a little way, and the safe could not be
lifted back to its position Without the
combined aid of four men. So it is as
sumed tbMt the robber gang was com
posed of less than a quartet, probably
two men.
The break was discovered bv Postmas
ter Wilber when he opened the postoffice
in the south side of the Beckett block at
6 o'clock this morning, the room being
filled with a fine dust which came from
the inner lining of the safe, and the safe,
located in the back of the main room, be-'
Ing thrown forward, while minor damage
had been done to the interior of the
building. The chief damage to the build
ing was done to a door leading from the
main room to the rear and located just
at one side of the safe. It is supposed
that the explosive blew the safe door
back with such force as to smash this
door and then the safe door rebounded
pbrtially shut as the safe pitched for
ward. Some glass in a cupboard was
alo smashed as the safe fell forward and
struck against the cupboard, which then
partially held up the safe.
Postmaster ilber promptly o.illed as-'-
sistance and two men tried to lift the
safe in vain. Then he called two more
men, and bv considerable straining,
Messrs. Wilber, Leon McAllister, C. E.
Ingalls and Dean Griffiths were able to
set the massive thing upright. Postmas
ter Wilber's inventory of the contests
failed to reveal that anything had been
taken. There was between $300 and $400
in the safe, the amount consisting of
blank money order books, postal fundB,
money order funds and stamps. Not be
ing able to reach in far enough to get
hold of this and not being able to raise
the sufe, the burglars were forced to be
content with the three dollars which they
found in the open cash drawer. Thus the
force which they had expected to bring
them money was also the means of
thwarting them when success seemed at
hand; the safe, though open, could not
be robbed.
How the Safe Was Blown.
The safe itself was ruined. There are
no drill holes in the door; but the handle
which worked the tumbleis had been
broken off. probably with a sledge ham
mer or other heavy instrument, and the
explosive was placed iu. the hole thus
produced. The force of the explosive did
not blow the door off but swung it vio
lently open and then back again, besides
ripping the interior to some extent. The
fine dust from the cement filling was
still flying when the postmaster entered
thepuilding. The safe was one secured
from the Trow 4 Holilcn plant in Barre
and was not conidered burglar-proof by
any means.
The burglars probably got into the
postoffioe by means of a rear window.
There were no jimmy marks about the
front door, and the door was locked when
Postmaster Wilber arrived at 6 oYkvk.
be devoted chiefly to the consideration of .u the n.ws of ,u, hrrnk knoB;
AT WORK PENDING SETTLEMENT.
Barra Paving Cntters and Employers Re
sort to Arbitration.
Difference between the paving cut
ters on MilMone hill and the employ
ers hive bee -i referred to an arbitration
committee and the paving cutters are at
work again, pending the adjustment.
Two weeks ago the cutters refused it
continue work under terms submitted bv
dm not beliexe him. tie oon went into'the employe-s a week previous. Some
coniulsions. and Ir. X. H. Kenyon was 'of their mimVr went to the paving stone
called. He died at 7 o'clock. It is said. fields of New Hampshire, but a maiori-
that he had been despondent ani badjty of them have returned t- Barre, iticulty
He leaves a w i'e. tour step children, one
.l- ... 1
"e n nry wura oi iie Ucrnl persons residing in the immediate
the rubbers e.pe,;.aly invito,! to hear I Tirnjtr nhkh i(j Ul th, rpntT of th
ine louowing : spesKer.: nr.n-.p '" village and next to the hotel, remembered
JutTr(re.Bliaaof Biirlingtofi: Rev. j ( ., 3
A V. Wilson of Bellow. Falls; Pev. G. , . , )j , A
enough to awaken them and yet not loud
enough to give them any appreh--nitn of
eriou trouble. Glenn McAllister, who
lives in a h use at the rear of the l"ni
versalist church. Bert Rohin.on's people
just across the rsl and others in th
hotel are anions tiwe who recall th!
no!e.
W. Davenport of Burlington; Rev. R.
W. Magoun of Fair Haven.
Tuesday evening preceding the con
vention an informal reception for the
members w ill be held in the parish house
from 8:30 until 10 o'clock, to which all
are invited.
Engine number 322. shifter in the
Barre yards of the Central Vermont
R. R.. ran oft the track Saturday fore-
There are no clues to the burglars tin
to the prcent time. Whether the bur
glars cme by automobile or not t ts"t
noon about opposite the Marr A rdon 'known bc--ue the run which fei affer
stonesheds on one of the side t racks, Ira j w ard would ta.e oHt:tcrst-d all marks
ing a long tring of flat ears on the m p ;of the eliir'e. as well a tending to dea-t-line.
n telephoning to Montpelier June jet tie nsn.l of the esplnnon. It is aid
tion to get another shifter, engine 3or?. ls!o that no persors to whm suspicion
to come and help them out of th:r difV !m;g! t br attached hate Ken s--en b"'it
it was learned that the Junction ' Wilhamsfown lte.
is in a Lke prd x-a mnt . having ' IV
in'y jumped the track do n 'ratio
erunne was in a like pred x-a mnt . having ' tVs'r.:tn v. s :-r m je divm nof;t-
Sec. Fred W. Suitor of the Chiarrvwork-i iust prev?oii''v jumped the track donn'catior- So lnret-r . .1. Bi-k.ev of the
(daughter, one brother, Henry !. Intyre. er Intermtiopal association and Aes-' there. So they hbv-ked the man Lne r-." t'; art merit, who t ! 1 at
" land three sisters, Mrs. Arthur Newton, jaor O. J. L. Matthewa of this ity have mntil paerger ergine number .VI, under , Bert ! " r' t v t?e ch ef
Ijeon Abbott went yesterday to Bos-1 Mrs. Patrick Hanion and Mrs. Arthnr;been choen to arbitrate the d.fferenret. orders of Con-furtor renal!. .nh-d th- : ,r;-t-r of the ?-;srtmnt at VhTg-
ton. where be will spend a part of te ! ffme of Burbnglon. The funeral will It is stated that differences in quest vm tat cars off the ma;i hn. THer. m tn. H '" ( fro-npt l r""i. br
eek at thm rotnmenietnerit and ahimnilhe held TueedaT afternoon at 2 obk I affect priiK-irles and that the arbitrators no serious damage d?me to ih rn:ne. ' t i tr- uty Shrt Leo
exercise of the Maachustt Institute t tb house, with burial in Lake View'wll He asked to haw their verdict on and it was rut into actrntr aft-r ab,t
of Technology. cemetery. tie questioa of f riacipl. lhre hmtx. (Ccticuei on e fhth pg
