THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Rain and warmer to-day; fair and colder
to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, 27; lowest, 17.
I ictnllcd weather, mall .mil marine reports on page HI,
IT SHINES FOR ALL
nit.
i
VOL LXXXIII. NO. 189.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1916. '.wH,,lil.l9ie.6, Iftr Sm, l-il,,!!, ni,,l l-mUMnn .tlntin
PRICE TWO CENTS.
,;u,j,jjj,i,.,j.,i.,..iii
WILSON SURE
OF TRIUMPH IN
Sonit1 Leaders rear. How
ever, lie 3lay hose Con
trol of Chamber.
MAJORITY 3IKMHKKS
A UK BADLY SPLIT
Vailiainentary Stru1ery
)l.iy t'pset IMans of. Ad
ministration. Mi" UrLKPEinilTS
KXTKXDE1) DEBATE
Bi'.van Lunches With Con
jiiessman. hut Declines
to Meddle.
.xll!NUToN, March ti. The diuicul
tie tli.it beset the Admlnlstiatlon In the,
m.euttf nance of Its nolU-y regarding Mill)-'
m.itlnc warfare were accentuated to-j
night by .in uncertain domestic situation '
irtl nut altogether favorable unolllclal
epocs Jrom abroad,
Ill tin loue the stage was set fur
ftn.it action !) Congress In the way uf
.,viiig the Picsldetit a voto of conli
iltinc III the armed merchantmen contro
virsy. The test of strength between the
I'uHdcnt ami the opponents of his for
iicn policy in tile House will come to
rn 'MOW
.strong belief Is expressed by Admiuls-
atlon oltlclals that the President will
w in.
Democratic leaders, appear to be
panicky over the situation tuovoked by
tii armed iiierehantinen. To-Jilght of
Rii.il Washington wan stltied by the
.nuouueeinent that Itcpre's iitiittve Page.,
of North Carolina, bi other of the Am
bassador lo Hunt Britain, would not
again run for Congress because of his
opposition to PrctrfdcvM Wilson's, foreign
policy.
Amonc Southern members the state-
, ,,,i ni.ti.irenllv with all-
U 0 Vorth Cmdl i mayuK.
!. "i, 0 nab y Tvtil
i. nit because of hit mummy 10
in harmony with the Democratic Admin
tratlon. '
Announrement was made at thu atate
Department of the receipt by Sectetary ,
UAlisttiK of the appendices to the Cer- 1
man declaration tegardlng her now j
L' boat campaign. These appendk-es ton
ala copies of the "secret orders' of the
Urltlhh Admiralty upon which Ccrm.iny
,.!!, for Juftlflcatlon of her Intention
to tli K all arned enemy liners without
v.ar Ins, Before taking action on the
..... ,.f thn,. uonendices the State De-
jart.nent Is iwaltlnc the ouuotne of the
light in Cong! cos.
rrealilent and Mouse Coufrr.
I- n,n i'oi. I!. M- House, who Is a
jit at the White House, the I'riwnnu ,
ni ttaiid impression of condition '
a, billlSetent countries ot But ope.
A ic't Col House refil-ed to divulge
I it t ii,.. linprtsslons wele. It Is UIldM-
itoo.l I mi he is of the opinion that tho
abuiainc iue.-llt-n Is one of moment In ;
tnv tite i.f-itiue oi wnien ii-
vteiihion of the activities '
i Ht' oil til' i
o! t e I' boats,
William .1
tl... Will till.M !
Bryan also enteied Into,
i ii nasserby if nothing i
n Willie- the controversy over inc
.iimed merchantmen iiuestlon was at li
eight III the
llouu- .Mr. Bryan vvitli.ous llgure In the Baltimore convention
tweiitv ltenreseiitatlves and one Senator j
1 .1 -I ...... !. I
i .i Lin st a, a UllCllfOII given i
iiipreentntiM Watrcti W. Bailey of
1 iiiisiv'iu.. He kept clear of the
,at '. infeirar. predicament In which the
AJininlsf atlon leaders of the Houss
luvc involved themselves in an eiToil to
tonipl.v w th ihe President's teiUest for
m V"n' of confidence.
lie did take occasion, however, to ex
tte - Ins ''IITerence of opinion with the
Administration on the iTlicct issue In
volvtd In the House coiitiovetsy b say
lui: that Vineiicans should be warned
i.ot t take passage on arnieii ueiiig
t. t ships
Mu h doubt still exists over tile out-
Cl ue if 'lie stIUKSle Hi the House lo
a' iiigtlati tile aim of the President ill
la- negotiations with foreign Ooveru
....Ms bv tabling thu Mcl.emore resolu
tion Tin Vdiiiliilsti'atiim Uaders tie
i ued lo lo.ng the controversy to a test
of stiengiii 115 a special rule placing the
rtijluuon beforo the House.
ilopllon of Ilulr.
Tie i w.-. adopted 1 a strict pally
vote tn the Utiles Committee. The alti
tude of tne Bcnubilcaii members both
m 'I i
ttlng and on the lloor of the 1
111!
House afterward Indicated that they
i ,vra tliemselveM almost solidly
f.i -l-t hc Admlnlsttatlon.
Willi cntinient among the niajotlty
in. r ,.ts fni from uniform there Is a
p . ialit that at one stage or anothei
' tt.i p.vliamentary proceedings that
r -i e gone tluotigh the plans of the
i no. I. tratiun leaders will he upset and
..'I r. -an. Hons upon an open debate of
ii entire lontrovetsy removed,
e the lliiuso situation now Mauds
' " M l.imoie lesoliillon Ik on the calen
i ti whnh It wan transferrin! tn-oay
Hi 'nit niytlon of Itept ecntatlv' l'os
. ' ' ! ns. a Itepiibtican. The Ituhvi
' i" tfc Ii.ik agreed to teport n lule
t- ihe t k n-lderatioii of the motion
tii'.ie toe lemliitliui In older
' i a drafting of the rule the Ad
".ii,..n Icadeis letreated somewhat
' tie iigoious Maml tlie.v hud taken
i ' ! " Itset III the colltrovels . iilcj
s I I., an allowance of four hoitis
.'..rr on the tabling motion Klld
I' . ininuiie for each sliln nil the
t . -i If This was a sop to Demo
i nc I Itepublicatis who had egj
I usu a motility to "gag i ule '
Hep n III lean Opposition,
.in esslon did not iiicisiiimIiIj
' I c uppocltlon of tlie Itepiibll-
i. o me, nor win Ihe cooperation of
In' ins ralle nieiulieis who dlsagr ed
' lie prisent direct issue. Thcro l
Its n apprehension among the majority
t'onlinucil on Third Pag.
N. D. BAKER, PACIFIST,
TO BE WAR SECRETARY
Cleveland's Ex-Mnyor mid Tom
L. JoIiiikom'h Disciple
Aceepts Post.
FHIEXI, OF PRESIDENT
While Worker for Peace He
Relieved lo Favor Wilson's
Defence Plans.
Washington, Match r,. - Newton D.
Baker, nx-Mayor of Clevclutid, lias been
selected by President Wilson for Secre
tary of War. The nomination will be ,
sent to the Senate to-morrow. Me. i
Baker will nil the vacancy created by '
the icslgn.it.nu of I.lndley M. UarrUon
of New Jersey
.Mr. Baker Is a mrmbe- rf a number '
of peace societies. However, It I tfken 1
lor granted that he Is In harmon.v with
President Wilson's policy of prepared
ness. It Is the uiiiletetuiidliig that the Pres.
Ident decided to offer the War portfolio
to Mr. Ilaker after an early mottling
conference with Col. K. M. House. The
President signed the nomination te.-d.iy
Immediately upon Retting a telegram
from .Mr. Baker accepting the office.
Mr. Haker will come to Washington
Thursday for u conference with the
President to fix the time for the assump
tion of his new duties. As the thirty
day commission of ticti. Hugh I Scott
as Secretary ad Interim will expire
March 11, It Is believed that the Pres
ident will urge Mr, Baker to piepare to
take the oath of office as soon as pos
sible. r.itrller Portfolio Offer.
The President and Mr. Baker aie
warm personal friends. It Is recalled
that when Mr. Wilson was making up
his Cabinet In 1H13 he twice tendered
the Secretaryship of the Interior tu Mr.
Baker Mr. Baker's declination at that
time was ascribed to the fact that he
was serving as Mayor f Cleveland and
did nut wis'ti to resign in the midst of a
teim for which he had sought election.
When the President stopped In Cleve
land or. his recent speechmklng trip
lie had a long talk with Mr. Haker, who
was oini of the few leadeirs called Into
conference with Mr. Wilson In the cours
of the Journey.
Tho President tendered the Secretin y
shlp of War to Mr. Baker. In accordance
with his decision to choose a lawyer of
the . middle West for the post. Mr.
Baker was the tlrst man outside the
Cabinet whom the President considered
tor tne poi vacaien vy .'ir. itii!-"m
' ""I. " rerulle.l. ha1 It that either
Seore,..ry.of the Interior !.une or Secre-
for the pot vacated by Mr. Harrison,
tatv of Agriculture Houston mignt lie
chosen.
.Mr. Baker is regarded by friends of
the President a" nil astute polltlclsn.
lie hnx a good reputation as a public
speaker. For yeats lie has been Identi
fied with the reform movement tn Cleve
land ami has taken an actlc part In the
street railway controversy there. On
the death of Mayor Tom Johnon Mr.
Baker took up the Johnson tight for
traction reform and carried It to a sue
cessful culmination before the Supreme
Court of Ohio.
Mr, Baker is a Democrat. He Is a
graduate of Johns Hopkins t'nlverslty
and received the degree of I, I,. P. from
Washington and lt-e Pniverslty In
Wilson's Advisers firmed.
Advlseie of liesldeiil WINon to-night
expressed gratification with the Presl-
lent s selection of a Secretary of w sr.
Mr. Baker wa man led July '.(i2. to
Mis lllliabeth I.opold of Pottstown,
Pa. They have three children. Politi
cally Mr. Baker throughout his career
has been active In national, State iinil
local politics.
He Is chairman of the Cuyahoga
county Democratic executive committee
ami a memoer oi ine iiemocratic iaie
committee. Mr. Baker was a consplcu-
by reason of his light against the unit
...1.. ..r anl...,...u...u ...1.I..I.
rule of voting State delegations, which
had long been recognized as the cus
lomar.v proctdiiie of Democratic na
tional conventions.
.Mr HaUei, who was elected as a Wil
son delegate to tho Baltimore conven
tion, was lustriii ted by the Ohio Demo
cratic! State convention to vote for Jud
eon Harmon under th- unit rule. Car
tying the fight to the Moor of the
llaltlinoie convention Mr. Baker got a
rulin repudiating the action of tho
State convention and enabling hlmielf
with fourteen other memls-tK of the
t imo tleieglllioil io Mile iur tl lisou
ti
her than Harmon
Mr. Baker's views oil national defence
' have excited great Inteiesl heie. He has
j been classified hetetofotc as n pacifist.
As a mi lilber of peace societies he has
taken an active part against national
defence measiiiei Despite Ihls President
"Wilson picked Mr. Baker, being appal
ently s-ntlstled that the Secretary of War
will uphold his hand in t he tight for the
pending pel pa redness bills,
I'pon .Mr. Baker's iUalllieatlou as Sec
telary of War he will choose an assistant
for the ollhe or Assistant nectetary.
T)1(, flU(. ., vacated by Henry llieck.
Iniidgo coliuident with the retirement of
Mr. Harrison. Mr. Breckinridge resigned
because he wai In sympathy with the no-
sit Inn that piouipte.l Mi. Oarilson lo
lellnqulsh the war portfolio.
BAKER IS "FLATTERED."
He So negsrils tlie President's Ki-
I presslon of Conlldenee.
! Ci.i:vei..vnp, March C Newton D. Ba
I ker. ex-Mayor or Cleveland, who has
been npipolnted Secretary or War, paid
that he lias accepted the pist and will
I p.avc lu-ie fn- Washington within
' week 1 I
I "Tlie expression of ciinlldcnre winch ,
1 President Wilson has Implied In the up. !
' pnlntincnt Is nnt Mattel lug," lie said,
1 "nt oiiise I know nothing of Die duties
1 of tlie ofllcc, and shall have It all to
I barn. I have no statement to make as
1 to the lO'itse 1 shall take. I have always
I been a pence advocate. I believe in peace
I nnd 111 tho proper cnforc-emenl or peace
I by force If necessary."
1 Mr. Ilaker has always been known us
: a paclllsl. and lie was re ently men.
' Untied at a peece mans meeting here as
the man to In lug peace when tlie time
lu line.
In making .Mr Baker Hecietary of
War lieshlcnt Wilson gains as an ad
viser a mini considered by Ills friends
a dlphoiial of tlie llrst water. Mr.
Baker rose from tho practice of law to
tic a Isiftcr of bii party In Ohio and
1
J. vJH
Copjrlslil Ixinrence nlr
Newton D. Baker.
the direct successor of the late
Tom
I.. Johnson In Cleveland polltlis.
He made his way through dogged per
severance, Intellectuality and Indomi
table will. Among iHilltlelans he has been
termed u "high brow." He alwas has
called himself a "dreamer of dreams."
Mr Baker tlrst attracted ttentlon In
Cleveland through hl eloipienee as an
after dinner talker. Alwnys a Demo
crat, he took n minor part In min.e of
the city campaigns and came to the
notice of Mr. Johnwin, who. when first
eleeteil Mayor, gave thlm a place In the
law department.
Johnson's Until nc
Whcel.
He proved to be the
balance wheel
needed for the rough ami ready John
ion ami helped the Manr through many
tight place In the battle for a three
cent trolley fare Mr. Ilaker was ,rlven
charge of the law end of the "seven
years war" and. though npiMtsed by an
array of the bet legnl counsel jr the
Hr, generally came out with tllng col
ors. At the election in wh.ch Mr Johnson
was defeated Mi. BaW was . le tt d ill
lector of law. being the onl Dtmncr.it
to survive a Ifcpiibllc.m landslide Four
Jears latir he was t beted Major by the
largest majorltv a may m alty candidate
ever received in Cleveland He served
two terni a ad dei lined a third.
Slim of build and warmly sympathetic.
Mr. Baker has a knack of making and
keeping friend Although he obtained
most of his political s hoollng under the.
tutelage of Mr. Johnson be plays a radi
cally dllTfreiit sort of politic than the
late Mnyor. Where Mt. Johnson was
impatient and fritful In the face of de
termined opposition ami took defeat
haf' Mr. Baker Is suave ntid smiling
under all circumstance and. defeated
on one scntc. seeks a new mode of attack
and renews the battle.
Twice before he ,ia brer offered a
Cabinet position. Prelibnt Wilson
Miutnt mm as t-eeretitry of the Interior
on two occinintH, put he declined. He
was Mayor at the time and believed it
Ills duty ito n m.vln here
tlnsi't I Crreliiiiee.
In i till politics Mt. IUI.it Ikim made
no entangling nlliances. He was the
original Wilson man In his State, voting
the Cuvahoga delegation to the Balti
more convention for WINon Instead of
for Hatmoti.
Mr. Baker Is a llrin advocate of peaca
bt not peace at any price In m
addtews be recently advocated strength
ening tin- army ami navy, but liai not
Indicated In what m.innT thW should
be done. While lv believes that per
manetir ni.aei. i:iii l .qlfil,llsli.l r.nle
through lesort to the courts, lie savs
uini rorce suouiii ne uen ir Ilecessaiy
to nialnt iln peace. .
Since the war .Mr linker ha care
fully adhered to the leipiest of liesl
deiil WINou that American citizens re.
main neutral. So careful has lie been
that no one. except possllilv his wife.
knovs where his sympathies He In the
present world struggle, lie is a mem
ber of the Cleveland Peace Society and
of several other kindred organUa'lons,
but says that lie sees no Incongruity In
remaining a member nnd being Secre
tary of War.
"I will retain my membership in the
society," said Mr. Biker t.i-nUli' "I
am an advocate of peace, but alsi be
lieve in using force to cnfotee the laws
of peace."
Peace, prcpaicilne nnd silence will
mark Mr. Baker's regime as Seoritary
Lof War He Indicated to-dav Hint the
Secretar.v of War should peal
rullv
through the President
He is 4." years old and one of tlie
youngest War Secretatles evei ap
stinted 10 DIE IN EL PASO JAIL FIRE
ill Others Hurt When Mien Lights
Hatch In Acid Hath.
I"t. P.vso, March Ten men were
bullied to death, four ate iljllig and
tweiity-lwo olbeis alu seriously Injured
as a result of tile In tlie oil y Jail this
afternoon whet one of Hie number slrucls
a match to light 1. cigarette. The prls.
oliets, most of them .Mexicans, were be.
lug given 11 balh In gasolene ami vinegar
to kill vermin.
Follow lug tin holocaust 1 icport
spteail lu .Ionic that the men had been
huddled together and Inn ued lo dcalh.
Ill feeling has pieviilleil atioss the
border for sevetal davs as ,1 n-siill of
effoils by I lilted Slate's nlll.ials lo pre
vent typhus gel Ills Until being blllllglll
lulo the. counli.v Tlie niilhoi Hies In
.Ilia I er. slopped all 1 1 utile in'ioss Ihe In
tel linliomil Inlilgc to avoid tumble.
A car fiom tlie .luani racetrack
bringing a nuinln 1 of American: from
Hie races was Hied oil several times
bcfoie reaching III" bridge. The motor
man wiiH shot twice lu the head and
probably will die. Several passengers
were Injured In 11 rush for the doors
when the shooting started.
WILSON LEADERS
TO QUIT CONGRESS
aue's
nil
Ambassador Walter II. I
Rrotlier and Kilcliin Will
Not Run Ayain.
CAN'T IPIIOLI) PR ESI HENT
Woul.l Stain His Hands Willi
Rlood" if He Did. Says
North Carol inci n.
Wash imitoj:, March li. Itcpiesenta-
I live P.igv of Ninth Catollna, brother of
I Walter II. Pase. the American Ambas
sador to tlreat Ililtuln, announced to-
night that beciiue of his opposition toj
Presldrtit Wilson's foivlsn p-dlcy lie will i
, not be a candidate for renoniltiatlon to
Con m ess.
In stating his determination to retire
from public life Mr, Page declared It
to be his opinion that tile i iovel ninent's ;
absent to the 500,000,ono loan to the At-'
lies destroyed the lemblauce uf neu
trality of the fnlu-d States in the Kuro
pea n conlllit.
It is nlo said that Iteprcsentatlve ,
' Kltchln of North Carolltt.i, the Demo-
(ratlc Houe leader, will retire from
Congress on the ground that lie was
out of tune with the Administration on
Its foreign policy and practically every
other question of Importance pending
In Congress.
The announcement that Mr Page had
decided to ipilt Congress caued a sen
sation. He Is regarded n one of the
most conservative members of the
House.
In his statement Mr. Page, facing a
vote to-morrow on the armed merchant-
men Issue, said that by this vote he
ran the danger "of staining my hands
with the blood of my rountrv men."
Iteferrlng to the Anglo-I'tench loan
he declared :
"Jesus Chi 1st nrr lilteied a more
proround truth than when he iUcI.h.-I.
'Where your treasure Is. theie will your
heart
be alHo.
He Is
I'ru-
American.
"Tlie loan of .100,0"n.fi0fl to Kngland
by American capitalists, to say nothing
of the protlts of munition manufacturers,
has destroyed the semblance even of
neutrality In the United States and will
probably lead us Into war. I have no
pro-tlcrnian. nor pro-any thing sentiment
or Inclination other than pro-American.
1 realize very forcibly my obligation to
my Immediate constituency and to the
American people. 1 will nut stultify
my conoolence or stain my bands with
the blood of my countrymen, neither will
1 do violence to my conscientious con
victions of duty, thereby foi felting my
pelf-respect.
"And now. hlle so far as I am In
formed I would have no opposition for
renomlnatlon in the apprnat lilnz pri
mary, I desire to iinnoutue that I will
not be a candidate tor the iioinluitlon."
.Mr. Pt'ge thm mad,' public the follow
ing annoiuicenn nt
"To the lK-mocr.lic voters of the
Seventh Congressional district of North
Carolina :
"Mnn patriotic clti7cni of North
Carolina ate writing and vvltlng me to
support the President In hl diplomatic
rotitroveisles with lturupean cnuutile.
Manv Just as patriotic aie telling me lo
support a resolution warning A i.erlcan
rttU-ns against taking passage- on
armed vessels of belligerent countries,
"The e'onstltutlon vests In the Presi
dent all diplomatic tpiesttons, ami I,
as one member of Congress, am willing
that he should exercise this prerogative.
I do not think tliat Congress or any
other large body of men can siiivcs
fully negotiate matter- of dlplomaev
with other mutinies When the Presi
dent demanded that Congress pass nti a
resolution warning American .-Wrens
again! taking pas-age on armed venels
of belligerent nations I suggested th
following resolution:
Whereas the Constitution of tin
Culled States vest in tile Piesldent
all matter of diplomacy,
.'cWriiJ, That the .senate and
House of llepieeenlatlves. In Convress
assembled, hereby expiess coiitlilence
ill tlie President In the exercise of tns
preiogallve for tlie protection of tlie
lives and liberty of American citizens
anil the honor and peace of the h
pulillc. "The Piesldent is not satisfied with
an lltlleserv.il expression of coiitlilence
on the pan ot me i ongres, oui ue
j mauds a vote on the winning of Amerl
inn citizens to leiiaiu irom using arnieii
vessels of belligerent countries, asking
that It be voted down.
"This shifts to the consciences and
convictions of nicniheis of e'ongicss a
responsibility Hint tlie Constitution lm-
1... ......!... II....I..,. It...
. .V .. "Y,. .:v. .'. A:
.i.J.ii.1,. ... exr.i v ovc n "liiiieiiietit
Kii.l . -.invidious, mid not have them die.
tilted by some one else.
I tin not lielleve thai an American
citizen should Insist upon the exercise
of any abstract right that will Jeopardize
the peace of this country. To vote
against a resolution of warning places
upon me the responsibility for the
dentil of all Americans who 111 the ab
sence of such warning inn) Ins.- their I
lives by the destruction of an armed '
vessel of senile one of Hie warring I
Powers, and , pcrhau tlieieby plunge this
I '""""y l",u
1 I. Hided Ii) Ills Conscience,
"I cannot gain tlie consent of my con.
science, much as I would like to gratify 1
the President nnd meet what seems to
be the demands of my constituents, re
sardleps of my conscientious convic
tions, to n nvery matter votn as the
President requests, thereby assuming re
sponsibility for tho loss of a slngK
American life or even Indirectly stain
my hands with his hlnod, 1
"In this instance I am sure 1 am in
possession of fuels of which a partial
press has kept the people I represent
In Ignorant c."
The concluding paragraph of .Mr
Page's statement reads;
"I can never express the depth of niy
gratitude to Hie Deihocials of Hie Sev
enth illstiict for llielrsiippoil noil friend
ship, I would lnq be in ally degiee
worthy of this If I did not maintain uiv
nir-rispect and intellectual lutegrlly tiy
retiring Instead nf remaining your repre".
Hentative without either,"
Mr, Page Is serving his seventh term
In lb. House. As a member of the Com.
uiltli 11 Approprinllons he Is itgardcil
as one of Hie leaders or I'ongiess, Mr.
Page Ins repeatedly Insisted Hint nier
leans 'should keep olf armed ships en
leillig I lie tlaligei Z..11. s 1 in i:,,..
proposition lie lias he-cii n enliie
H)inpatlt.v with Leader Klttiilu. Kilter
tabling the views thai he does m oppo.
sltloti tn thv position or President Wil.
son, Ml. Page told Blends that lie could
not consistently make another race for
(,'ollgl CM.
THOMPSON MAY ASK
CURB ON P, S. BOARD
Early Report to tislaturo.
to siiest City Super-
vise Subways.
OPEN IIEARINWS SOIMUIT
I'.xlr.i
roiir Mouths for lnes
ration Is I'oruially
Voted.
Alaixsr. March '1. The Legislature
having given the Thompson committee
a lease or life until July I. It will bo the
pin pose of the committee, Senator
Thompson ald to-night, to begin work
on it- teport tills week so that a pre
liminary statement of the vvoik Hill" far
done bv his loiiimlttec can be submitted
to tlie Legislature.
Without opposition the Assembly to
night adopted the Senate resolution
giving the committee the additional four
months, The legislative leaders rather
strongly intimated that the committee
ought to llulsli b that time and mean
while to let the Legislature know what
th" committee proposed to do In regard
tu remedial legislation covering Impor
tant points brought out . 1 1 the New York
hearings.
Senator Thompson said the question
ot a puilmliiary report would be dis
cussed at an executive meeting of the
committee on Friday. There is a great
mass of detail to go over, he said, and
be hop. d lo get some pirt of It in shape.
Ii was made plain to Senator Thomp
son that a final adjournment of the
legislature wilt come on or about Apt II
j. and if Ins committee intended to
recommend iltanse In the publu service
, commission law the legislative leaders
ought ti. lw getting acquainted with I hem
before any further time ,s consumed.
Milium. It.illilliiK I lt's Work.
Senator Thompori said to-night that
Ins committee had not decided defi
nitely on an of Its proposed reconi-
mendallons. He believed til" most lin
IMirtiint problem coiifiontlng the com
mittee was the question of subway con
struction He believed, ami other mem
hers of the committee agreed with h!tn.
that the t spimibility and control of
subway construction ought to be taken
out of the hands of the Public Service
Commission and placed under the siiier
vMnu nf the New Vork cltv authori
ties "I think with this work under the
control. Inspection and supervision of
the municipal authorities the time for
completing the entire work could be
expedited. The Public Service Commis
sion undoubtedly Is capable enough to ,
do the work, but It does not do It In the
right w-.cv ; there seem to be tangle" I
heie and theio and lepeatetl delays
will. Ii should lie avoided "
Senator Thompson said also that he
believed New Vork city would w.-ii-onie 1
an opportunlt) to have a "silent putt
lier" on the inside of t'ie riillinads This
lould brought attain by having tlie
Mayor or the Board of Kstltnate dc!g
jatate an Individual, prcfe tnhly an In-1
I lliietitl.il city eniplovee, to serve as a,
dlrec.or of the railroads. This olhcial i
would then be tn a position to know
Just what was going mi at all tln.es, and
having old the Int. rests nf the city to
s.ive lie could keep N-w York city oill
clnls posted on business matter, nt
which they get carcily any information
no.vail.iv s
Wants I'nlille sessions.
In the ..pinion of Senator Tiompson.
the executive se. spins nf Ihe I'libl1 Ser
vice Commission should be ah-dlsh. d
"Let all the sesslo:. be open tu tlie
public and bt the public know what I"
going on That would be an Innovation
welcomed i.y all the people Th.-Puhl
Service Commission wen not created lo
cater to the railroads The people have
as much right to know what Is going on
as tlie railroads have, and the are going
to know what I going on if I can bring
it altout "
Senator Thomp'o.. laid "le question
of bringing th" water pover c imp'iules
under supervision of the commission
and also of putting all of the ,'e-v York
fciilcs under tlie control of the N'ew
York city commission would b consid
ered on'l'iiil.o The question of sal-
aties of the cominlslnners v 111 Mm be
taken up Senator Thompson thinks
II.. mm a e,ir I no', too much for New
Yolk eltv i onimis-loners as long as the
city pis the salaries, hut that the up
State members, ought to i"c for about
i half that sum ,
I "That s 'he opinion of icrt.iiii ii'eni
' Iters of tlie committee." said Senator
Thompon "Personalis 1 believe the
Public Serv leu CiimiiiisMiiticls have no
I greater ...sponslbillllcs or accminlalnll
, ties than members of the Legislature.
I w lio get mil H.SOiI a car
What we
ought to do is
iliictlou .11 the
cials wlio ate
lfiil,(10li and
to start to seciue a re.
salaries or railroad offl
getting triii.nOi), IT.'.inb),
still greater salatles a
jenr "
Senator Thompson said his committee
lias received man requests ftoni Influ
ential citizens to ask the Legislature to
ireate a "rapid transit commission"
made' up of pet haps 0110 tepicsciitatlve
fi 11111 each borough
"That inav be the solution of Ihe sub
way situation,'' said Senator Thompson.
To-nioiiow afternoon the Scmito
Finance Coinnilttee will listen to objec
tions of Senators to the umflrniatioli of
tlie Hnvcrnor's appointment of Travis H
Whittle ami Charles S. Herve.v to bo
member of the New York city Public
Set vice Commission and the th e State
Industrial Commissioners.
Senator Thompson said to-night that
he will oppose the confirmation of Mr.
Whitney, but that lie would wait and sco
' what was pindured before the commit
tee in re sanl to Mr. Ilervcy before tie
committed himself.
The general opinion Is tliat all of ihe
I nominations will be conllrniril
OPENS GILLESPIE HOOKS.
II li I Coiilriiclor's I oiine VYiiiil- to
Nil ine tecoiiiiliints,
Paul D. liavatli of Cr.ivatli lien.
. ivioti. a'torue.vs lor Thomas , n.lles
jut, sent a letter ,v eslenlii) to Finnic
Moe, . iiiin-'i loi Hie TIinuieon eg!ci.
lallve .Olllllllttee. suggesting Hial tho
coinillltlee seli'cl one of hair a iloreii
III ins ol accoiinlaiils. lo be uaiiie. by (he
liw.veis, i" examine tin books of T A
Hillcsple Compaiiv icgaidiin. the con
tract fin thud inn king Hie eleviiled
lines.
Ill clTcel Hie letlel Is a Hal denial
t'lnifluuei ou Fuuilk I'ayt.
GERMANS AIM A T VERDUN
TO CUT OFF FRENCH ARMY
Separate It From British and Then Make Peace With)
France Alone, Is Theory Advanced Teutons
Praise But Warn
lChll to'ilr HtHnltrli lit THE hl
I.onpon. .March i. An unexpected lx
pl.inatlo,. of the attack on Verdun l fur-
nlshed li the (Jerman papfcra. which con-
lain nuineious tributes to the courage of
the 1'iench, expnss legrct over the
ding
of IVen. l. blood and hint slr.il.gly
: that Gel many would be willing gladly to
conclude a separate peace- with France.
Major Moiaht, ni.lltaiy expert of the
, llnllvri' Tuyclittill, sttongly iicommends
i this course to the French, as does Maxl
; Inill.Ui Balden in hi .ukuiil. Thu lat
i tvrsays.
"Fiance has been cleaned by the war.
She can no longer be licensed of deca
dence' and degeneration. She needs a
strotg statesman who will not miss the.
oppoitunlty to save- Fiance- and lluropo,
and save France for Ktllope.
"liven If e.t rnialiy should, which I" most
I improbable, suflcr reverses, France could
not dictate a lasting peace. Theie I a
second sislblllty, if the tierman ad
vaii. e breaks through the stone walls
it ii. I th. wills or me- and presses fot
vvatd it will sep.irat. the British from
the French mid eflect an env eloping
movement of either the centte or one end
of tin long fiont and dlsatni a whole
arm.
The I t her Industrial districts
' and ot the Mower of her outh Is lslng
lime by France 'With a dignity and
'heroism which cannot help but win re
spect and admiration even among the
, despised in sin's.'
, "But lould Frame bear still harder
trials" Could she go on living without
her gltdle of fort, without her capital?
Yet the isisslblllt that the army es.
tabllshed a" No on and St IJiletitin
inav taeve1 Paris st.enus to the Impar
tial a greater possibility than such
niliacle .i the ilt Ivitiv: irom the Alsne
to tlie Bhine of wairlors a liundicd t ines I fellows had to retite, but with the en
proved and equipped with the mot mod-I terprlslng spltlt or our troons this a
en weais.ns r small British success quickly to be re-
"Cecrman vb toty alo would be dearly versed "
25 GERMAN SHIPS
SEEN IN NORTH SEA'
Fleet eriiMii"' Off Holland
May
Mean
a r.i
'irpitz Plans
Haiti.
MCCH ACTIVITY AT KIEL
;eel' n'.'- lit ,i.llf . ( Till: 5fx
Iinisis, March 7. Imll. ations that
Admli.it von Tlrpltz j;..ns
raid into
the North Sea on a l.rcer scale is sent
In a repot t rro.11 Itotterdam that twenty
tive ibrman warsMlps have been nt'ii
off tin- Island of VUelainl in tlie North
Sea. The ispoit follows close oil other
rumors of unusual activity and excite-1
merit at Kiel and Wllhelmshavcn.
The P.iitterilam report, 'vhlh .onus
ft in tlie correspondent of the Dull" 7'e I-e-iirnp;i.
sis the Vessels nine from the
northwest, proceeded westward for some
distance, nnd then clanged their course
and disappeared to the north.
BATTLE IN BALTIC EXPECTED.
I'lotllln o( tierionn lleslrojers
VlnUlou for HossIhii nler.
;i.vij Vilhlt llt'p ttr'- t,t Till l x
ST'H'Mlol.M, via Loiidnii. March C -
Tic tiioMin' r.port.- that a llotilla eif
liermau destro.v.-is war een olT Oxelo.'
Mind. Iieaillng north i:nsian torpedo
craft near Oiland are r gartb tl here as
liHrlniigers of Important naval opera
tions Tlie Ice In tlie northern waters
Is already breaking up
Oxeloesunil s a small Swedish town
111 the Norrko. pings Bav, south of
Stockholm. 1 'eland ' a Sw.illli island'
In tin Baltic not fat- off the southern I
inaat of Sweden. The Herman destroy-1
eis inav be engaged in 1 ecounslssauce
work near the c'.ulf nf lllga and m iy
loreshailovv a eierman naval attack on j
the great ltussian seaport
Til.' ltussian topeiio boats ate pion
sihlv patrolling tin Bait
with the vh"
to pieveiillng sin h an
action.
MAINE ELECTS 7 G.O.P. MAYORS.
Hcniocrecta flel Tlircrt Iti'initilleans
Win I'll line e-riiincnlx.
Poitri.vsii. Me. M.i'Ch r. Ten Maine
cities elected seven Itepubllcaii Maor
todav alM eight i:uilillcan city govern
iiieins Bepiibllean Ma as wele ele. ted In
Allien it. Ilitstport. l'.llswot Hi, llallow.il.
S.iis.i, South Portland and WnterviMe.
Batii. 1,1'Wislon and llockland elected
Democratic Ma)ote. or the cities named
P.eptiblic.ui gov l nincnts will have con
tiol in Auburn. Bath. Fastpoit, 1111s
W'.rth, n.illowoll. Saco. South Portland
ami Waterville. leaving to the Democrats
Lew Iston and ItocUland
I'.leitlon also were held in a number
or the smaller tnwn tliiotighoiit the
State. The KeptlbUoans were generally
succesru'
F. H. PRINCE HURT AT POLO.
Knockeil srll.e,r.. n,e
Cut t.ash III III lleitel.
AiKl'N. S. C, .Vlarch C--Fieiler ck II
Prince was hit over Hie righl eye anil
sei iniiily liiitt here Ibis arternoon In
the seml-tlnals or the annual .vtanii
loin iliiiiient at tin Aiken polo Club rur
the .Vil.cll cup Ml. li-iine. pla.vlui; No. 1
on Ihe Aiken lentil, appealed lo have
ralnteil lu Hie second pel lod. He fe
ft om Ills In. isc, but soon r"galneil con
si aeiHiiiss, when it was ills. iiveied Hint
a polo in, ill. '1 wielded by otic of Hi"
pin) cis had niiiile a iliep .lit fii'lr
iiieins long over Ins right eye
Mr Piltne was lifted lulu a inoior
car and can led lo Ills home, where he w
resting easily.
I Hon I Huve t'oiiceiilliix Device.
ttftlfltll ' ilhlr tliMlttltrt, Iti 'I'm , s
.oM.eiv. Match I. Tin I'iiIIii Mini;
Copenb igiui coriespoiiileiit sa)s thai ti
new Heilllall sllhlllll I Hie lire I'lil'iipi'd
Willi an apparatus for making waves for
some distance around tin- v.ssel, so dial
It Is Impossible in .leleriulue Hie exact
location or Hie vessel when It in only
I slightly below th lev! of the sea.
Historic Foe.
Ilmught lis Irreparable cost w oiil.l om
pel Uerman to hipieeite the enemy with
I nut pity. The tierman lieople'a will
,l(iltlrl li.il l.ll.tt-f.t;. id flw. Cl.... tit fill
,1(ul(. Kr:IVM lin. ,licr s.(,t(,i, than
'bleeding I'ranee white. Uhly thi'li would
slicd-'tlenuany demand a Julcj Mint of
""ll'.T.r ..V'1! "U"" V,.. " "
.in friMitlei mid
their oecupitlon."
a tribute secured by
GERM A NS COS FIDE NT.
erdiui Tusk ol Mo 1 1 H ret n to
Unit Oilier Drives, sm Critics.
Vermi" ( ii7.,- );i.ii7. In Tin: Sl
Br.ni.tN, via Atiistc.il.ini. March li.
The KoriilM ie tltim;) ile ribes the tak
ing or Douatimout village as gicallv
Improving the Herman position.
"Tliu village is now In ruins." says the
p.-II'r. "lively house Is demolished."
eiy liolls.. Is ieitnllnei. ,
eiAierle r ..Ifini- advl. s Hi" '
ot tn expect a speedy Herman t
The fri,
Oerrnaiis not
victory at Verdun, hut patiently to re!
on the sure methods or the liermau sys
tem. Tills paper continues :
"Notw itlistandiug the campaign
against Verdun we ate strong enough!
t make a great attack In the Cham-,
pagne. Verdun has kept so few of oiiri
forces busy t ti.vt wet ate able to break
through other parts on the front when-,
ever we like." ;
Iteferrlng lo the activity of the British
southeast of Vpres, another correspondent
of the paper declares.
"No anxiety need be felt In tlil quar
tet. Of course, the British desired to re
gain the trenches lost fourteen days ago
and show their allies that they are tllli
theie fter many fruitless attacks last
week they directed such heavy artillery
tire against the bastion that our brave
TEUTONS DESPERATE
NORTHCLIFFE SAYS
Experts
Violent Outbreaks
to Riu'ors Imposed
by Rloekade.
Due
"FK.HT AOAIXST
-e-i ttil.tr HrAi.it, -ft In ThC
P.vnts. Man-h (i.--The Te-miis, In an.
j Inlet view with Ixird NorthclltTe, quotes 1
tne rew-paper puiiiisner as saying: 1
"My i respondents In (lerniany vvlini
find means nearly every week to send j
to Intdon very precise and exact re-1
ports state that Herman- Is now lighting
against tune-.
As the Hermans ale now beginning
to f. el t!'e pinch of famine as a result
of the blockade I expect there will be
a violent explosion of Herman anger on
land and sea during the next six months.
"I am eonvin, ed that the Herman
fleet will bef ire long attempt Its sieat
effort Tlie British navy knows it and
Is expecting the great day with anxious 1
1 Impatience
"Not having rcen invaded l.ngl.'ind
has peen a long time Waking up to tlie
I reality of the war, hut theie is an Fa-t-ein
proverb which savs i'.ewaie of the
mas slow to anger.' The great majority
lot llllgllsh people, espcclallv tin women
I of Fnglaiiil. Scotland. Ireland, Camilla.
AiisttaPa. New .c 1l.1t, d and South Afilca.
at last rullv reilie that to preserve their
I own lile rt and that ot th" world tlie
teeth and claws of tile Prussian t.ger
I r.ii. .1
1 n,e Allies aie inast. is r the sea ami
I will i.ot permit a single Heinian ship to
I leave Hamburg ..1 Bremen b.foie Hu -
I mall hits p.itd the whole puce 01 nriio
shameful bestiality I lielleve 1 know
J Hermany well and I have not tin slight.
est doubt as to the final issue of the
1 war"
'Ocriiiiin I'leet to Come Out."
When Till' Si .'s cut respondent a-i'ied
Lord Noftln l.n'e in reasons for l.el'e v
itic lha Hie Herman lleet would soon
all out la- replied
"There are half a dozen r" isrins The
llrst I that It would be an attempt
to bleak the Anglo-French blockade,
which i going to become more severe.
The Hermans lire now getting through
tin blockade Icatlnt for boots, oils,
gteasc of all kinds for nuking nitio
gl. critic. Iron ore for Hie Ixrupp and
other vital necisslt'es
"Th.'te Is ii lot of noi.eiie talked
about starving Human liable No Hit
man babies at o being staived bv the
blockade, though many Ihulish babies
have b.cn killed b) '.'I'l'iUns anil manv
Aii'i'iaan babies elieev I mi the l.tis..
lama Theie is Plenty of milk in Hei
utiin . Herman babies would get mine
If less w.is used In making xpnlv cs
"We pioposi the eiifotclng of a block
ade siinllii to that'of the Note-, In )om
; . iv 11 vvat
i "Anothei l.a-oie b) Ihe Ibet w .1'
coin. out l to tn.ii.it an aviciutJi i"
fiigliten Ihigland b) the niunh-r of new
devices hey have .outlived.
"A third reason is the qll. slum of
am nil' propre The iTe.ntan shoit ser
vice sailor is no in ilch fol the long tetm
British seamen, but the Herman naval
f..,,.w. nol lll.taitdili
Hubniariiie inutile. lug or women and
v'lihlien. in which In- s incielv executing
I oi ui s
Vine lo Vindicate lisell,
I 'ii ets ..r th. Herman -ii.nv at
I tile In.n liv It) or the H. rilian li.ll V a'of
I old slauiluig and w..e nevei so pro
noun, ed as at pi esent
I "lieu,.' Hie ll.IV will I'lll.lje to Vllllll-
rile lis. If
i "Another li'lsoll i- till tl elliellilolis
pl'l'ssllle ol p'.lliti. oiltllou III Heiinriuv,
! vi lilili I asking. 'Whit tin is an expen
I kai' lie. I if It does i ... 1 1 1 . 1 1 " rxpeet a
vmli'iil i mt i .ii i s oi' Herman i.ue on h" l.
in aei. on iter nnd iiinb i vvalcr, ac. om.
paiiinl ) Hie inevitable pciie sqllealniu
I 'The Miles look lol'.V.lld lo Hies"
ni.ituti s'utiiiiis with the same . null-
ih tie . r.'ll .llll'lllg !!" lie. llllll Itti'llip'
to u.i ' ii Pans 1 1 I C.ili's. in, ii, , . .
Mut.h n tin ellile.ivoi t 1 1 a 'i I N io-
gr.lel .111.1 (Ill'iT Hi 1111.11! I, I, I, III- lol
manv oieiiple a good deal ..r the c in
1 al present Inn shn c:i nii.ii hold ,t S'n
j i eseinlil. n a man will a pocket lull if
I diamonds but with an empty stomach"
.GERMANS TAKE
jN
impnnw nniim
I DiiUll 1 III YD
rurr.v Villnyc ol" Koikes in
First liil'iiii(r. Attack
From Northwest.
FAIL IS KFFOli'T T(
ST0IJ3I III Lie ISMVOXl)
Frcncli. With .M tinleniiis
KiililiKlin-i' Fire. Check
Vigorous Assnnit.
..... ,., .
i l T. A I IJAITLK SOW
IX ITS Til I III) I'll ASK
Invaders Aim at Triangle
nl' Forts fhampa'ii.e
Sees Heavy Act inn.
ic.ijC lnhlt hetpntrlt In Tnr. si c
Paius. Match el. The Crown Prince
launched hi 4 tlrst Infantry attack against
Verdun from the northwest late thli af
ternoon, toward the clo-a of the four
teenth day of tlie battle.
On a front of two and ,1 half miles,
between Bithlncoiirt and Forges, on the
western bank of the Mi use, where tile
Flench advanced Jm.. MS .., ,,n.
tnered by the ib rmaii guns intermittently
ever since March 1, .. "drum lire" which
lasted throughout the tnonri.g vva.j sud
denly halted and th.- Infantry w.i si.nl
forth 111 a violent attack. It had two
main objectives; to take .the village of
Forges and to puli forvv ird and storm
a h.ll of vital strategical 111 .orlaiice
the Cote tie I'Ole, dtp s..-h of Forget
(mly one, the llrst. of these two go.lis
. was 1 cached, The Flench ciiniuiimlqu.
j Issued to-night announces that the., tier
j mans tisik Forges and are holding tt
I'l M F' ' A" l,,",,',Uk!,Us "" ",(- '-'"l" tie l'Ole, huw
' lever, broke down under t e niiirdetous
I enllladlng lire of Ihe deft I'dc .-
llnllle- .Vim It, I lilnl
With this attack Hie D.itt
I'hl.se.
e f VcMlU'l
s now
I'liteied Into i:s ililnl phase ,
led. the attack from the north
long c.xpe.
west It is iilmeil Immediately at the
triangle of forts guarding V. .dim on
that front and ill 1 1 111.1 1 1 1 v at thu whole
. a,.,..,,,,. ,,.. ,,. ,,.. ,,r lh
Meuse
Tile niglil coiuniuntqti. tines not in
dicati tlie viiili'iuc ot tills new iiifanlrv
attack beyond calling It "sttoug" and
sa.vlng that .1 "v.t lively battle" fol
lowed and result, d In Hie capture of
Foigea b.v the attack. 1 Two advantage-
wen 011 tin -Ide of tin. Hermans
in this case, tlrst. the ilisi'ii.c of a
fot titled position sin Ii ,1 Imuaumont,
and second, tlie fact Hint till' attack has
In en prepared by the Hcnnai. howitzers
I lor six .t.i h. falily .Idling tin; wo
for the infant!-.
Forges li.' on t.-e we.-i !n' of the
'Men., a lltt mm.- thin seven miles
Islightl. northwest of Verdu 1 Brabant,
i Sauiogneiix and t ti.itni.i.-u villi, on tlie
, casiern liank. are held Lv the Herman
ci'titl', and it-- line rur ita.lti with
tile Hi tlllll.'Olirt-l'.-ieje line
I'lllioiptiutle
The ;.i(irr
llllll tl-ueeiine. cllln-l..
i Tlie ;.i(ri-e' give- t ic l-l iwnu a
count of S111..I.1 s tU-litm.- n Vacherau
'ville. obtained irom an ..rfn.t tvoimde.
"The b ,1 1 i 1 ..1 1 ! Ill . 1 i t w'i. tne .dec
'the litt ick was one of 'lie most terrlb'e
Ijet. but our soldiers i oui nnd stead
under ovei, wa.tliu f' r the -ho k if
tile .'llelliv's Olllllsll Tin- 'l.tci, was
led b tlie Poincratiiaii r.'Ci'n.-iits -orii
pnseil niostlv ot vi rv voiiii" men In new
j tin I fill in am! see luinui) u ,'.l-l d to ba
' tie.
I 'Tlu-ie was a pint, amor,' t '"tn wlieti
'our liaiie'ries opciied (Ire The. tiatib
.ml) subsided when fie i troops ar
rived The Hciuiau u"t ,i tooling ?i
one poln:, but o,d) in i.ur (list Ipts
.They vete inimeilialcv .based nil bv
our coimi. r att.nl. The l,ean of Her
man lb id l'fore ..ill pos. Hon ,ir e
eral iiolnls leached the !,. ight of t:-
tiirlied wire. We nil to' tne . re
sum that tlie en.in.v l. a.. 1.- dc
tcriuiiiatlou than hull. rn. '
Tlie Hiitnatis also iiiiderlool, a . w
offensive' to-day in the Cnanicagiie ine
extent of which, liovvev.r, s. n.s to lia
been iimiusii tant The hes of a suiai
portion of ..ilv.iin . d trim'.. on the
ll'teti. h left, III the let- on of V 1 1 sons e
I Cliatlipaglie. is ailiintt.il Iv r. Tlie Hei
liian attack was ill. ule b.tw..n Mont
. Tctu and thai point It was ... ioiii
pained by Hie ll-e nf 11 I'elll.g I'qu el
Fighting, wdh all. riia'in . foiiu'.
took plicc in the Argoime masK.i
' clileltv by in. lung actlvitv
A new attaik ley the tirrcatis n Hm
i Woi'Vie ell-'flit Is tiirchadiwrd bv the
inglr liiitiniquf', wh.ii' savs t i
Crown Prime's rirtllleiv vva. inlcnse'.'.
, .hHm around I'td.'ie. Ti-dav Hic'le
wa. no Infantrv attieci. on Hi it iioiu.
J llo .wr
j l.erinan
Int.'
t'illn ,e of I'lirm'e,
..-s' . I 'n-n slit bv th
Th. coiiniHinlquc ,
Wai llllli e follows .
Ill I il HHP Iglle tile I iei 111 ills la 'III. tn .1
an mack a. i oinp. lined by streams oi
II. lining I. quids against .ms p .-itio.
betw't'il Monl Tclil and Maisnns (le
I'll inip iglie. nil our I gilt the . neiuv
iliiiketl by our hairier lb", was un
able to leave li s lu-iuln. on our lejft.
in the icgloti id Maisous i. Chain
plight, he vv is aldi , liowivei, to pi tie
trate into a suia i poitmn ot "in ad
vanced . cliches
In the Aiguille we cxi'lodi d l Millie
III t'. ev leg on of Coll'li C i njssi
lllcieb: ile-trov mi; the i ic rm in pot
it I etc. itln-' a I. nap enter t ie sontli-
I ti ..lue ol llh'ill we ol ll'ize.l I if
is .-. i. I.i II I. II" I ilev I'l. 1 . e rid Hill
.'. . . C I il itg exi'l's'e.l Ve' ,t
ii i ', '.I., iii ill) took adv ml igc of
.ii vol..- I ga .it. .lit .' "Old n
s. . .,1 io ' - .0 enir tllsl I, ie ,
e'lg.igt on .it Was tout: d. .ti ibe eouri-e
of wtli. i We llloVe tin ei. li i lievillld
mu Hiiicbcs and we u ill lined jn
rti-
il
A
"A
I
jJtri. ..'j .id. I..
