FINANCIAL EDITION
lEtmting
ijltittt
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
11
. c
vol. n.- O. 150
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1916.
CormonT, 1010, r ins roatio -icon Co-rirti.
PRIOE ONE CENT
wv H,tf$IJI8i!i'TSi3 W
I
PEOPLE CAN HAVE TAYLOR
TRANSIT PROGRAM IF THEY
' WANT IT, MAYOR ASSERTS
r
Executive Says He
5 -i . O
Xwming ouggfcjsuona anu inau
Will of Citizens in Matter
Must Prevail
DAY'S DEVELOPMENTS IN BATTLE
FOR TAYLOR RAPID TRANSIT PLAN
Mayor Smith announced that he has not officially or otherwise1 in
dorsed tho Twininj? plan and stated that the completion of the Taylor
olan in detail, as originally proposed, rests entirely with the people.
Senator Penrose issued statement indorsing original Taylor plan and
assailing Twining substitute for its failure to meet the needs of the
oeople of Philadelphia.
City Solicitor Connelly, in an informal opinion to the Mayor, stated
that city stands committed to construction of Broad street subway from
Leaeuo Island to Olney avenue and the -Frankford elevated from Front
and Arch streets to Khawn street, on account of the wording of the
S6 000,000 loan bill passed at the special election last April.
' State Senator Varo declared that so long ns Mayor Smith is the
Chief Magistrate of the city the citizens would suffer no injustice.
Holmcsburg business men lino up to fight proposed changes by Director
'L
Twining in tnc courts u necessary.
t
Following a city-wide revolt against the emasculation ol
the Taylor transit plan, Mayor Smith today announced that he
had never officially or otherwise approved the revised transit
plans of Director Twining.
The Mayor declared that it was his duty as Mayor of Phila
delphia to serve the people, and that if they wanted the Taylor
plan they should have it.
The heavy financial burden of maintenance and carrying
charges for a loan sufficient to build all the lines desired is the
one great consideration, the Mayor said, which the people should
not lose sight of in the planning. In political circles this was
interpreted as an intimation that an increase of the tax rate in
1917 may be proposed soon.
The Mayor, however, insisted that the changes of the sta
tion plans under City Hall did meet with his approval and that
these should be as Director Twining recommended.
vThe continuation of the Frankford elevated from Bridge
street to Rhawn street, the Mayor said, was inadvisable in hjs
opinion. The construction of this part of the line, he said, would
serve private interests more than it would the public.
The Mayor frankly stated that he was not committed to any
one plan nor to any section of any plan, and that it was his desire
f to serve the people of the city at large by seeing that they got
what thev needed and what thev wanted. He also made it nlain
that he had given up his trip south until the present crisis in tho
transit situation has been passed.
Even before the statement by the Mayor had been made pub
lic, Senator Vare in an interview declared that the people should
have full confidence in the .Mayor and that no injustice would be
done them in the matter of rapid
Simultaneously, City Solicitor Connelly gave an informal
opinion to the Mayor, holding that the city now stands committed
2J:Ao the construction of the Broad
.Island to Olney avenue and the Frankford line from Front and
Arch streets to Rhawn street, owing to the wording of the $6,000,-
000 loan ordinance passed at the special election last April.
k ue complete statement or ainyor mun
I will wait until I recolvo from
Director Twining a report of just
what changes ho contemplates. Tlien
I will make known my views of them.
When a meeting was called last Fri
day to discuss the proposed loan, the
, transit phase was not moro In mind
than any of the other Improvements
. Planned. The nrst I knew of them in
detail was when Mr. Twining placed
his sketch before all of us and told us
of what he had In mind. It was then
that the newspaper men present
asked If drafts of these plans could
le secured, and I nt once said that
there was no objection on my part.
Unfortunately, that was a little
premature, because It put the Tran
"It Department In the position of hav
ing made the drafts public, but not an
explanation of the came, except that
Which could be gotten up hastily.
I would like it known that I havo
no objection to the plans of former
Director Taylor and as far ns their
completion In detail as originally pro
Posed that Is a matter 'entirely up
to the people. I am not antagonistic
to the desires of the publio In connec
tion with the construction of these
transit lines, I do nqt pretend to say
Uwt the people shall, or shall not
have transit lines hero, there or wlier
ver they see lit. I am an admin
Htritlva officer and do not set my- '
K up as dictating how the lines
wall be built or how far they shall
" built. But there is one thing upon
' JJ.I l am Insistent, and that is
. mat I want the people to know Just
what will be the burden the publio
must assume in the maintenance and
SfPl"8 charges ol these lines. It
m be hundreds and hundreds of
wousands of dollars annually, aild I
nt the publio to know this before
we have proceeded too far,
wo, things I am familiar with In
.eSUm wlln tha transit plans and
w free to speak upon. These con
? ",!, 8tPPlne ol the subway work
' H CUy HaU nnd the conclusion of
" ? frankford elevated at Bridge
f , ,As yu know, the latter street
" "Poetically the end of that com
. S,Ji",r B?a ,0 bulld he road a mile
um,i? ha,f 'urtner jnt0 the country
t;!r ost a great amount or money.
Jrv ?oubt woula ba advisable. I
IV U Mfi -"" '" outii nil extension
f u ?"e? 'or at this time, Of course,
' H 1 Indorse the ntenslnn n fr an
fcSfP'ated In the original plans it
mr. . ciain interests that are
more private than public. Friends of
uine are an-loua that tho .,i ,
f-Vuti. 'J? termInus contemplated,
R"i H would serve certain landowners
tiMtlaocd on I'ase SU. Column One
THE WEATHER '
, FORECAST
.for
Ur-bJ.1 elou?V tonight with tern-
k,f muVH' fiove freettnii
fWa-atf fan Moderate variabU
IfyWtmmaeih
Never Approved
J-i i mi X.
transit.
street subway from League
CONGRESS MAY
PROBE TEUTON
LOBBY CHARGE
German-American Alliance
Inquiry Is Planned if
Wilson Wins Today
KITCHIN MAKES DENIAL
WASHINGTON. March 7. A sweeping
congressional Investigation or the charges
published by the New York World today
that the National German-American Alli
ance has conspired to force passage of
warning resolutions through Congress will
be ordered If the Administration forces In
Congress are able to control the situation.
This will be determined on after action
is had in the House today on the proposi
tion to table the McLemore resolution.
If the Administration forces are success
ful It Is expected that a resolution calling
for an Investigation of the entire matter
will be offered without delay.
According to tha charges printed by
the World In a copyrighted article to
day, the Alliance, the chief offices of which
are at 80 Maiden lane, Mew York city,
has a congressional program calling for
legislation that would force refusal by the
United States of passports to Americans
who travel on ships of the belligerents;
an embargo on exportation of all contra
band of war, and prohibiting Federal re
serve banks from subscribing for war
loans. In addition, It also Is alleged that
the Alliance planned to control the next
Republican national convention and
eventually defeating President Wilson for
re-election.
"Both tales are lies, plain lies." vehe
mently declared Speaker Clark today, dis
cussing charges emanating from "Jew
York that u. German-American lobby is
at work to defeat President Wilson in his
submarine light, and, Incidentally, trying
to control the Democratic National Con
vention for Clark.
"So far as I am concerned, I want to
say that the whole thing Is a lie; I want
it stated Just that way said the Speaker
with heat. -
"Do you know Marsallls?'' he was
asked. Marsallls is the alleged chief lob
byist. "Never heard of him," the Speaker
crisply answered. "The whole story Is a
lie."
Itepresentatie Stephens, of Nebraska,
a Bryan follower, freely admitted that he
ttaw MariallU.
JUfphMM flatly denied he knew Mar
! as an ugnt of any organization,
and eya he received him and listened to
his indorsement ol the proposals to keep
tJoiUauji ca l'ese i
TEUTONS TAKE
FRESNES; GAIN
ALONG MEUSE
Crown Prince Smashes
French Line Seven Miles
Southeast of Verdun
REGNEVILLE ALSO WON
Germans Hurl 20,000 Men at
Position Northeast of For
tress and Take It
LONDON, March 7. A dispatch
from Melbourne states that Austra
lian artillery forces have been sent lo
Verdun and arc flghtinR there with the
French to stem the German attacks.
The censor permitted the dispatch to
be published, though no ofllcinl an
nouncement has been mnde of the
transfer of British troops to the Ver
dun front.
Assaults northwest nnil southeast of
Verdun havo won two Important posi
tions for tho German. Tho capture of
Fresnes, In tho Wocvrc plain, seven
miles southeast of tho French fortiess,
Is olllcinlly reported this nfternoon by
Berlin. Tho Paris War Office admits the I
Germans liavo forced their way along
the west bank of the Meuso and taken
Hill 265 and the vlllago of Regnevllle.
The Crown Prince hurled 20,000 men.
ut the French lines along the Mouse,
and despite fearful losses carried tho
positions by storm. In tho Champagne
the Germans recaptured a position at
Mnisons de Champagno which was lost
on February 11.
BERLIN. March 7.
German troops have captured tho vil
lage of Fresnes In the Wocvro district. It
was announced today by the War Office.
South of La Bnssee tho Brltsh havo
been driven out of Vermellcs at tho point
of tho bayonet.
In Champagne a French position at
Malsons do Champagne has been taken,
the Germans capturing two officers and
150 men.
(Fresnes Is soven miles southeast of
Verdun and has been tho scene of violent
fighting.)
The official report follows. -
"Small English detachmetlts which
penetrated our trenches yesterday north
east of Vermellos, after a bombardment,
were driven out at the point of the bayo
net. "In the Champagne, a position which
the Fiench took from us at Malson de
Champagne, on February 11. waB recap
tured In a surprise attack. Two officers
and 150 men were made prisoners by us.
"Following tho explosion of mines wo
pushed our positions forward northeast of
Chalade, in the Argonne.
"In the Meuso district the artillery Are
on tho west bank was more lively.
"Kast of tho rlvor It maintained medium
violence.
"Apart from engagements between
reconnoitring parties, no ha,nd-to-hand
lighting with tho enemy took place.
"In the Woevre district tho vlllnge of
Fresnes was captured by storm early
Tuesday morning. However, the French
are still holding their own In a few houses
In the western outskirts. Tho French lost
moro than 300 men In prisoners.
"During tho night tho railway station
at Bar de Due was heavily bombarded by
one of our nlrbhlps."
PARIS, March 7.
Continuing their smash against Verdun
from the northwest the Germans have cap
tured Hill 205, near uagnevllle, on tho
west bank of the Mcuse, tho War Office
admitted this afternoon.
Tho Teutons advanced under cover of
an Intense bombardment, the War Office
stated.
Tho hill was stormed and taken by the
right wing of tho German force that yes
terday occupied the vlllago of Forges, Just
west of the Meuse, eight miles northwest
of Verdun.
The Gern.ans are bombarding French
positions on Goose Hill, a mile south of
tho newly won ground, preparatory to re
newed Infantry assaults,
The Germans are attacking with the
greatest violence, but the French still hold
the summit of Goose Hill, the -vlllago of
Bethincourt and the wooded regions in the
Continued on I'ase four. Column Tho
LA BATTAGLIA NAVALE
IMMINENTE NEL N0RD?
Venticinque Unita' della Flotta
Tedesca Sarebbero Dirette
all' Costa Inglese
Telegramnii da Iondra dlcono che cor
rono persistentl vocl secondo cul sarebbe
immlnente una grande battaglla navale
nel Mare del Nord. Secondo queste vocl
II prlncIpe Knrlco dl Prussia, fratello del
kaiser, avrebbe assunto II comando In
capo delle forzo dl mare tedesche, Un dls
pacclo da Amsterdam dlceva perslno che
Jo unlta' della llotta tedesca sono state
vlste Incroclare nel Mare del Nord lerl,
dlrlgendosl prima verso ovest e poi verso
nord. In quest! ultlml glorni parecchi
crltlcl navall espressero I'oplnlone che la
llotta tedesca sarebbe venuta fuorl del
suol rifugi per dare battaglla alio forze
navall Inglesl.
Anche in Svezla si dice che una batta
glla navale tra tedeschl e russl e' imml
nente. Farecchle sllurantl russe sono
state vlste nelle viclnanze dell'isola
svedese dl Oland, nel Baltlco, e parecchi
BOttomarlnl tedeschl sono statl pure vlstl
al largo dl Oxelsund. si dice che non
appena 11 ghlacclo, che gla e" rotto, com
Incla a squagllarst, navl da guerra Inglesl
e russe Intercetteranno t vapor! tedeschl
che fanno servlzlo tra la Germanla e la
Svezla, do' che provochera' la battaglla
navale.
(Leggere in da pagina lo ultima e plu'
dettagllate notlzie sulla guerra, In ital
lano.) Stetson Striker Reprimanded
George McCIearnan, of gllu North til
street. .striking hat nulsher of the JpUn
B. Stetson Company, was arraigned today
befor MsKhitrato Glenn, acQU4 of lolUf
In near the plant. McCIearnan was dla-
HOUSE, 256 TO
PRESIDENT IN
OF TEST VOTE
Progress of House Fight
on the Armed Ship Issue
One hour nnd n hnlf was agreed
on by the House today ns the time
limit under which the special rule
recommended by the Rules Com
mittee ,which Would permit the
tabling of the McLemore resolution
wnrninc; Americnns to keep off
armed belligerent merchantmen,
could be debated.
Acting Chairman Pou, of the
Rules Committee, opened the argu
ment, declaring that the tabling of
the resolution would "conclusively
show" that tho House was standing
squarely behind tho President in
his handling of tho submarine con
troversy with Gcrmnny.
Representative C n m p b e 1 1, of
Kansas, opened the debate for the
opponents of the rule, explaining
that he would, if the previous ques
tion was voted down, immediately
offer a substitute.
BACK UP WILSON
OR LOSE HONOR,
SENATE URGED
Sutherland, Republican,
Declares Crisis for
Nation Is Here
NO MATTER THE COST"
Intimates Further Dallying
Will Be Indication of
Cowardice
WASHINGTON'. March 7. Kenntor
Sutherland, Itepubllcan, of t'tnli. declared
on the Senato floor today that tho United
States must back up tho IMcsldent's posi
tion In Its relation to foreign nntlons at
whatever cost or consequence, "unless It
Is willing to forfeit the lespect of mankind
by becoming a craven thing."
"I, for one," he'saUh-l'mir becoming nick
nnd tired of the spineless policy of ictieat
and scuttle the policy that, among other
things, has ordered our p.iople to abandon
their rights In Mexico nnd that has mnde
us flee our own plnln duty In the Philip
pines "Instead of foiever telling our people to
run, I should like for onoe to hear Home
body bid them stand, with the assurance
thnt their Government will t-tnnd with
them. Instead of warning our own peoplo
to exercise their rights at their peril, I
would like to see Issued n warning to
other people to Interfere with these rights
at their peril.
"The danger is that by this policy of
always backing down Instead of backing
up wo shall encourage an Increased en
croachment upon our rights until we shall
Anally bo driven Into u crisis from which
nothing but war can extricate us."
Senator Sutherland declared that he
would fight over no wrongs which money
could compensate. Ho opposed n warning
resolution, he said, because it would not
minimize tho duty of the United States
lu tho least, but would only weaken and
embarrass the Government If It should be
called upon to demand reparation for the
lives of Americans.
Tho submarine Issue plainly stated, from
tho German viewpoint, Senator Suther
land said, waB simply that "when a new
engine of destruction Is Invented that can
not be used without violating the law, the
law Is automatically modified."
"Under tho circumstances my own view
Is that tho weapon must yield to the law
and not that the law must yield to the
weapon," he said.
"If the United States concedes the right
of n submarine to sink a defensively
armed merchantman without warning It
will be Inviting the sinking of wholly
unarmed ships without warning also be
cause submarine commanders will operate
on the presumption that all belllgeront
ships are armed.
"The United States has borne tho sink
ing of the Lusltanla and the Ancona and
the Mexican outrages with a patience
which begins to have a suspicious look of
pusillanimity.
"A nation that will not resent a flagrant
nnd Illegal ntack upon the lives of Its
own citizens is only less detestable than a
man who will not fight for his wife and
children."
DISEASE KILLS, NOT WOUNDS
Father Who Shot Son Weeps at Find
ing of Coroner's Inquest
Harry Walls, who shot his son to pro
tect his wife, wept In the corridor of City
Hall today outside the room where a
coroner's Inquest revealed the fact that
his son died of a disease and not as the
result of a revolver wound In the arm.
The son, Arthur Walls, 18 years old,
died In the Presbyterian Hospital follow
ing the shooting, which occurred at the
family's home, at 2940 Wharton street.
Young Walls waa shot while wrestling
with his father, who interfered when the
former attacked Mrs. Walls, It was testi
fied. He had been suffering with the dis
ease for two years, it was shown.
SEVEN HURT AS AUTO SKIDS
Baby Among Those Hurled From Car
at Ogontz
Seven persons, including an 8-week-old
baby, are recovering today from Injuries
received when the automobile in which
they were riding skidded on Ashbourne
road, Ogontz, and hurled them out yes
terday. Cuts or bruises were sustained by every
member of the party, which consisted of
Mrs. Robert Smith, , 6-year-old Lloyd
Smith, Mrs. Wesley Wyatt and 8-week-old
Elizabeth Wyatt, all of 113 West Indiana
avenue: Robert Smith, 1214 Myrtleavo.
nue; William Arnold, 1316 Fracker street,
and Philip Schultz, Old York road near
City Line, who drove the car.
Norwood to Have Two Flower Shows
A demonstration of planting seeds
mnrkMl thA mlln nf thft MftrWfUil TTor
Vsultural Society last night. Members
this year, (or there will be two, Instead
160, SUSTAINS
FIRST SKIRMISH
ON ARMED SHIPS
i Adoption of Motion to
i Limit Debate on Mc-
L em ore Resolution
Clinches Strength
Demand That tho Country
Stand Firm Behind the Ex
ecutive Brings Long Cheers
and Applause From the
Crowded Galleries
Warnings "That No Nation Divided
Against Itself Shall Stand" Are
Received With Solemn Silence.
Pou Opens Debate and Several
Pennsylvania Members Join In
WASHINGTON, March 7. The
motion to adopt the rule which lim
ited the debate in the House on the
McLemore resolution was carried by
! a vote of 271 ayes to 138 noes.
WASniNTiTO.V. Match 7. The House
of Itepresentntlves today capitulated to
President Wilson.
The 111 st test vote on pioposals to warn
Americans off belllgeient armed ship?
showed that the forces of the Admlnlstia
tlon were In complete contiol. Ily u oto
of 25G to 100 tho House carried n motion
to limit debate on the special rulo for the
consideration of the McLemoro warning
lesolutlou. The Administration program
called for four hours' debate on the Mc
Lemore measure, followed by a motion to
I lay It on tho table. The first vote Indi
I cited that the program would go through
easily.
I Tho vote enmo In tho midst of a day o
sensational debate such ns the House has
seldom seon. Pleas for support from the
President who has "carried the greatest
national responsibilities of any President
since Lincoln" aroused the House to wild
enthusiasm
"FOOMIAUDt.VKSS" ASSAILED.
Warnings that no nation "divided
against Itself shall stand," were received
In solemn silence. Kxcorlatlon of Amer
ican citizens whose "foolhnrdincss and
recklessness" In traveling on belligerent
i ships may "plungo the country Into war"
l was cheered.
1 The final aigument nnd appeal which
aroused tho House most was tho demand
i that this country stand firm behind ::io
! President In his fight to insuro respect
for the rights of American citizens on the
sen.
To this plea tho big membership on the
floor, and the crowd which oerflowcd
galleries and corridors, rose with cheers
and applauded. Tho gray-haired, stal
wart form of Speaker Clark stood at the
desk and wielded tho gael.
"Tho President Is for peace. Ho would
not sacrifice a singlo life to lnako himself
President for his lifetime' Pou declared.
"He has support on both sides uf this
chamber nnd distinguished support out
side." Another small flurry of applause from
both sides greeted a lemark that former
President Tnft Is standing with Wilson.
"Tho present President nnd two living
ex-Presidents aro all standing together for
upholding the honor ami glory of this
countrj," Pou concluded.
ItKPL'ULlCANS' PLHA.
Representative Campbell, of Kansas,
senior Itepubllcan on the llules Commit
tee, followed.
Ho said It the House would vote down
tho previous question and permit debate
ho would offer a substitute for the Mc
Lemore resolution to "give a square vote"
on the merits of tho warning Issue.
"If not, tho House will not bo ablo to
express Its views on the main Issue, by
tabling tho McLemore resolution," said
Campbell.
"Tho President Is asking Congress to
assume diplomatic functions and declaro
to the world that citizens not only have
the right, but may with impunity exercise
It to travel on nrmed ships these ships
armed for offense, not defense alone," the
Kansas Representative asserted.
"It is said the McLemore resolution
gavo paralysis to tho arm of tho Presi
dent The Administration's letter to the
Powers regarding the rights of merchant
men to arm really closed the Adminis
tration's power to Insist that this nation
would assert right of Americans to travel
on nrmed ships.
"The nations of Europe are fighting for
their very existence. Tho one thing for
us to do to avoid war Is to warn Ameri
can citizens to keep off nrmed merchant
men." Representative Harrison, of Mississippi,
Continued on l'axe Four, Column Three
GERMAN FLEET DASHES
FROM KIEL FOR BATTLE
London Credits Rumor Kaiser's
Bi'other Commands 25
Warships Sighted
LONDON, March 7.
Prince Honry of Prussia, the Kaiser's
brother, has been placed In command of
the German fleet for a dash into the North
Sea, according to rumors revived today
and jecelved with the greatest credence.
A Vlleland Holland dispatch reported
that 25 German warships were sighted
cruising In the North Sea yesterday. They
were moving westward when first ob
served, but later changed course and
steamed northward, it was stated.
Lord Derby and other well-Informed
persons recently predicted a great naval
battle will soon be fought In the North
Sea.
A heavy snowstorm was raging over the
North Sea, however, and no confirmation
was available of the reports that a big
German war fleet had sailed out from Wll
helshaven, presumably for the purpose of
giving battle to the British.
One Amsterdam report said that a num.
ber of German warships had slipped from
the Kiel canal and taken refuge In the
German naval base at gebrugge. Belgium,
where they are continuously held with
steam up.
There have been active communication
between the British and Russian Ad
miralties recently giving rise to the be
lief that English and Russian war squad
rons will oo-operata when the Ice goes
out of the Baltic and will prevent all Ger
man merchant ehtpa from leaving port.
At present there is lively maritime trad
ing between Qeruuny and Sweden
EXTRA
REPORTED MAYOR WILL ASK
DIRECTOR TWINING TO RESIGN
A I'-pint gained wide riirtilntiim In City Hall nnd in political
cutUh this nftcnioou that Mtiyot Smith would quietly lequest Tinn
sit Diiector Twining to picscnt his lestgnntlon because he was dis
satisfied with the manner in which the ttansit piublem has been
handled since Twining ns&uuictl office. A later report had it that A.
Mcnltt Tayloi, foimor director and originator of the comprehensive
Taylor tronssit plan, might succeed Twining. An cflort to ask Twi
nning If ho contemplated tcsigning was futile but an official of the
tiniuit depnitment said the Dhcctor would not tcslgn. These re
poits followed the statement of the Hayor that he hud never In
dorsed the Twining cmtibculiition of the Tayloi plan and would give
the people what they wanted.
J. V. W. REYNDERS, STEEL MANAGER, RESIGNS
HARilTSDURO, Mnrcli 7. -J. V. V. Rcyndcrs, who for many years has
been prominently Identified with the manaKcmcnt of tho bis: steel plants at
Steelton, nnuounccd today that ho had presented his resignation as vice presi
dent and diiector of the Pennsylvania Steel Company. It is reported that Qulncy
llcnl, nt present assistant to tho president at the Sparrow's Point plant will
lie appointed Kenernl manager of tho plants nt Steelton, but he will not bo a
successor to Mr. Iteynders, because tho executive olllccs of the Bethlehem Steol
Company nro nil located nt South Bethlehem. Tliero' will be no other changes o
Importance at Steelton.
BALFOUR REASSERTS BRITAIN'S SEA SUPREMACY
LONDON. March 7. "No German cruiser Is in a position to menace British
commerce on any ocean of the world at this moment."
This emphntli; announcement of British domination of the sea was mado
In the House of Commons tills nfternoon by Arthur .1. Balfour, First Lord of
tho Admiralty. He announced thnt since the war began the personnel of tho
navy has been doubled nnd Its actual strength hud been lncieased by moro
than 1,000,000 tons. In the same period the naval air scnlcc has been Increased
tenfold, he said.
"I'nder the guardianship of the British licet." continued Balfour, "4,000,000
combatants, 1,000,000 horses untl mules nnd L'.i'OO.OOO tons of stores and 22,000,000
gallons of oil havo been carried during tho war."
, CHAUFFEUR, PETROMORTIS VICTIM, CURED
Petromoitls, a newly discovered ailment caused b& gasoline fumes, was suc
cessfully treated today nt the Germnntown Hospital In whnt Is said to ho tho
first caso of its kind In the city. Tho victim, Frank Glfford, 25 years old, a
chauffeur, of fiOiiO McCullum street, wns overcome, nnd all tho drc"ad symptoms
of tho sickness, Including unconsciousness and bluc-tliiKed face nnd hands,
nppenied. Ho as rushed to the Gcrmantown Hospital, where ho wns rovlvea
by oxygen by means of a lung motor. He was said to be out of danger several
hours later.
ADMIRAL WALKER, OF MANILA BATTLE FAME, DEAD
BALTIMORE, SId March 7. Admiral Aha Walker, who commanded tho
Concord with Dewey In the Battle of Manila Bay, died at 1 o'clock this afternoon
at his home nt Annapolis. He was the Inst surviving captain of the memorable
battle.
BERLIN RESENTS
COPENHAGEN, Murch 7. Berlin
Teuton ships thnt have been seized,
begin warlike operations.
WAR RISK INSURANCE RATES INCREASED
Increase In war risk insurance rates by marine underwriters was announced
today as a result of tho increased activity in the German submarine warfare.
To French points in tho Mediterranean, as well as South African, Italian and
other specified points, tho rate hns Increased from 1U per cent, on every 5100
to 2 per cent.; to Sicilian ports, from 2 to 2Vi per tent.; to Far East points,
from a little more than 3 to 4 per cent.: by way of Cape of Good Hope, from 4
to 5 per cent., und for vessels goinc; through tho Suez Canal, from 5 to 6 per cent.
MPRET BACK
AMSTERDAM, March 7. Vienna dispntches nnnounco the arrival of Gen
eral Koevcss and Prince William of Weld, the Mpret of Albania, at Durazso,
stating also that an attack on the port of Vnlona is imminent.
INCREASED RATES ON ERIE HELD UP UNTIL JULY
WASHINGTON, Murch 7. Tarjffs of the Erlo Railroad which would havo
increased lako and rail rates from all lako points to Xew England nnd Eastern
terminals wero suspended today by the Interstate Commerce Commission until
July IS. Tho tariffs would cancel Joint rates between the Erie Railroad and
tho Detroit nnd Cleveland Transportation Company and the Erie Railroad and
the Cleveland and Buffalo Transportation Company.
EVANGELIST ARRESTED ON NON-SUPPORT CHARGE
The Rev. William J. Shlpwny, an evangelist, waB brought to the city today by
Municipal Court Officer Griffith on a bench warrant which accuses him of con
tempt of court for falling to pay his wife, Mrs. Emma Shlpwny, of 6112 G Irani
avenue, a weekly sum as ordered by tho court. The arrest was mado yesterday
in Bangor, Ta,, where he was conducting an evangelistic campaign.
WOMAN, 107 YEARS OLD, SAVED FROM FIRE; MAY DIE
A woman 107 years old, rescued from a fire, la in critical condition today
at the Hnhnemann Hospital as a result of tho burns sho received. She Is Mrs.
Rachel Ducket, of 1607 Carlton street. Because of her age nnd the seriousness of
her burns it is feared she will die. Sitting beside a table at her home Mrs.
Ducket fell asleep. A low-burning candle set fire to the table cloth, which in turn
ignited her clothing.
MAYOR SIGNS AERO SCHOOL BILL
Mayor Smith today signed tho bill leasing the Lazaretto at Esslngton to
the Philadelphia School of Aviation for a period of ten years nt a rental of II
a year. Work on the construction of a new pier and hangars for hydroaero
planes will bo started at once, and It Is expected that the school will ba in
operation by May.
13 KILLED IN ZEPPELIN RAID, BRITISH NOW REPORT
LONDON, March 7. -Thirteen persons were killed in the Sunday night
Zeppelin raid on England, according to revised figures given out today. Ninety
bombs were dropped. It was stated that absolutely no military damage was
done, despite German statements that the (lull naval base was damaged.
ELECTRIC RAILWAY EMPLOYES GET WAGE INCREASE
ALTOONA, Pa., March 7. Employes of the Altoona and Logan Valley Elec
trio Railway Company are to receive a voluntary 8 per cent. Increase in wages
April 1. They had made no demands. The new schedule follows: First-year
men, 21 cents an hour; second, 23; third, 21 i fourth, 25 ; fifth and over,
26H- They now receive 20, 21, 23, 21 and 25, respectively. Three hundred men
will be benefited. The local lines, which connect Altoona, IollIdaysburg, Bell
wood and Tyrone, are owned by the American Railways Company, of Philadelphia.
P. R. R. L1FIS EMBARGO AT 8 MORE STATIONS
The Pennsylvania railroad today removed the embargo on all domestic freight
consigned to the following stations In the city: Fifty-second street, 30th and
Market sheets, 31st and Chestnut streets, 30th and Arch streets, Oray'a Ferry
"Woodland avenue, 68th street, Millbourno Mills and to all private sidings under
the Jurisdiction of these agencies. The total number of cars now stalled in and
around Philadelphia is 9319.
GASOLINE BOOSTED ONE CENT IN INDIANA
CHICAGO, March 7. The StaRdardQU Company of Indta&a wdajr ndnce4
tbttpcsoJaygriAdpf gaafiUa t fit ft ella to M 9SJ
vltitfttf
"JV.
PORTUGUESE POLICY
advices state that If Portugal retains ho
Germany will Immediately be induced to
IN ALBANIA
LJL . -, . , T -In n -aWfdia T.-7;:Tr-ii- i ,.i ,.-,-h JL, 4 JT
