if
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
, Average price of cop
per for week ending
March 1, 26.64.
WEATHER
VNOZiaV 'XIN30Hd
Arizona Clearing,
Colder north
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 242.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, MARCH 7, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
mmatt
STAGE HOLD
UP HIPPED
BY LOGAL
Charles Bergon and B. F.
Smith Arrested on Divide
While Waiting for Tomb
Stone Stage to Pass. ,
ALL ACCOUTREMENTS !
OF ROBBERS FOUND 1
Upper Lowell Resident Fights
and Overcomes "Stick-up"
Man and Takes Him to
Lowell with His Own Gun. I
i
Armed with a double barreled shall
pun, a rifle ar.d all of the accoutre
ments of a successful hold-up, Charles
Bergan and B. F. Smith were arrested
yesterday morning near the top of the
divide by local county officers. In the
arrest the officers forestalled daringly
planned robbery or the Bisbee-Tomb-stone
stage.
Several days ago it came to the at
tention of local officers that there was
a plan afoot to rob the stage, yester
day morning. Why Monday morning
should be selected fon the affair and
why the Bisbee-Torobstone stage, is
not known. The officers, at first, were
inclined to scout the idea but precau
tionary steps in the matter were well
rewarded.
Deputy Sheriffs J. L. Gannon and
Brakefield, with Constables J. Bert
Polley and Joe Hodges, early yester
day morning went to the top of the di
vide and secreted themselves at diff
erent points. U was not long before
two men came walking up. They wera
near Gannon and Polley and werej
heprd talking. One of them said to J
the other that he had better go down
and get a suit case.
Accordingly, Bergan started for tho
case and the other two officers, think
ing that he had beconie frightened, ar
rested him. Smith, also was soon af
terward taken into custody.
The officers found, besides the guns
and masks, ropes with which then in
tended to tie the passengers' hands
rnd othe necessaries to an up-to-date
stage robbery. Both men were brought i
...1 1 i
, ..-.e .u-,
jail and are now awaiting arraignment ;
rnd examination on a charge of con
spiracy.
Bfrgan has been in the District a
matter of fifteen years. At one time
he was a shift boss at the Gardner
mine. Smith is said to be from Cali
fornia. The first inkling of the threatened
rottery came to Bisbee city officers
last week. They turned the matter ov
er to the county officers who, yester
day morning, saw the affair to a suc
cessful issue.
His Own Policeman.
While the county officers were on
the Divide yesterday morning, another j a now looks as though some sort or
hold-up man was busy in Jiggerville t an issue will be fixed so that an elec
but he counted without his host for, I tion can be called before lone
instead of relieving his prospective
victim of his light change and any jew-
elry be might possess the latter fought t
and finally brought his man into Low
c-11 in front of the former's own gun
The would-be hold-up man was Lee t
Craddock and the near-victim was
John Isoma. The former is badly beat
up as a result of the fight and the lat
ter has a flesh wound in his right leg,
a pocket with another bullet hole in it
and two lead punctures through his
hat, one cf which went through the
sweat band and grazed the scalp.
isoma. according to his story, was j
early hour and his assailant stepped j
out and demanded his money and val-1
uablcs. The victim had about $80 on
his person besides a watch and decid
ed he would flght for his possessions.
There ensued what must have been
one or the best rough and tumble
fights possible with the advantage all
with the man having the gun. In the
end. however, Isoma came out victori
ous and with a wound in his leg and
several scratches and bruises, march
ed Craddock to Lowell.
Bisbee
E. C. Barton and H. G. Ruff,
officers, were celled to the scene and, I
after some search, arrested Craddock !
in the Bonanza rooming house, where
he had taken refuee with another man
sifter he'ns marched to Lowell by Ij
oma. The la'ter had his wounds
dressed and was cble to be about the
Ditrirt yesterday afternoon.
According to the Biobee officers
Craddock was In an intoxicated con-
WORKING FOR TINY
SUFFERERS OF WAR
ki ? 77
Miss Caroline Dawrs Applttn.
Miss Caroline Dawes Appleton has
just come from Europe to WashiM-
( ton to start a campaign for the aid
ot thousands of children who have
beer. left orphans ant1 'nomeless Ly
the war. She is founder and presi
dent of the Friends of Childhood So
ciety. Through donations this or
ganization has acquired larjje tracts
of land where 'school's ar.d homes Ji'-e
being built for the reception of chil
dren from the war-ridden couniries.
Conflicting Desires of Two
Associations Withdrawn
Hunt Made County Phisi
cian. TOMBSTONE, March 6. (Special)
ine Doard of supervisors was in
session today attending to the usual
monthly business. The question of
the appointment of a superintendent
of the Board of Health was taken up
and Dr. J. W. Hunt, of Bisbee, was
uppuuuea 10 nn tne place made va
cant by the resignation of Dr. Patton
ur. r. w. wawiey, or Bisbee, was
eiven Iht onnlrant frir rQpn ini f- ,1...
i" l"C
indigent sick in the Warren District
at the rate of 750 00 per yw
Dr. Wilson, of Willcox. was given
the contract for that place.
The board checked over the month
ly accounts of ' the various officers
and they were approved.
The petitions for the road bond is
sued, filed by both the Taxpayers' As
sociation and the Road Bond Associa
tion, were both withdrawn and it Is
understood that a compromise plan
will be adopted by the two associa
tions and new petitions will be cir
culated. It was conceded by both Tac
tions that neither issue could carry
without the support of the other side.
The board, with the county attorney.
went to the county treasurer's office
and counted the cash as is required
by law. There was the sum of J346.
875.38 accounted for, divided as fol-
lows:
L
HEW PETITIONS
i hi pniun icciic
. Ull UUI1U lUUUL
PROBABLE
Cash in Banks $339,808X3
Jurors Certificates 448.90
Gold 30.00
Court Orders 2,669.65
Currency 1,350.00
Cash Papers 2,427.94
Silver 125.00
Checks 10.52
Pennies .14
Refund School and Road
Taxes 4.50
This covers the amount of cash
handled through the treasurer's office
for the months of January and Febru
ary. The board completed its work early
this evening and adjourned.
dition Sunday night in the restricted
j district and endeavoring to make trou
ble. When captured be bad taken off
Ibis coat and sweater and had also left
his shoes at home. A charge or high-
way robbery has
gainst him.
been preferred a-
General Petty Crime.
There is no end of general, petty
crime in the Warren District at the
present time. The officers are surfeit
ed with calls from every quarter. A
number of suspects have ben elimin
ated by either jail sentences or "float
ers" but others drift in as fast as the
UP A TREE.
WASHINGTON, March 1
Secretary Daniels is unable to
find an American contractor to
meet the speed requirements
of the two fleet submarines,
authorized last year and has
turned over to the House Naval
committee the whole question
of their construction. Chair
man Padgett told the committe
one contractor guaranteed a
speed of nineteen knots. I'n
less Congress changed the law
his bid would have to be re
jected. The specifications re
quire a speed of 25 knots on
the surface, if possible, and not
less than twenty-knots.
OF
Automobile and Pedestrian
Status Extremely Trouble
some to Officers and Others
in the District
Traffic conditions in the Warren
District continue to be the sourse of
continual annoyance to officers, pede
strians and to motorists themselves.
Though there was a decided improve
ment in Bisbee during the incumbency
or a special traffic officer the general
trend, at the present time, i? to over
ride the law and place the safety of
the general public in jeopardy.
This was noted particularly yester
day and Saturday, when the traffic on
the streets and roads of the District !
was particularly heavy. j
There is going the rounds an epi-j
demic of thefts of cars which the of-1
I fleers find it exceedingly difficult to j
cope with. Over the week two were
reported to the officers, both of which
were found and returned to their
rightful owners. (
One was a Ford which was taken I
by a soldier from Douglas and brought j
to Bisbee. Officers Ruff and Kempton j
found the nlan on Brewery Gulch i
with the machine and arrested him.
In bringing the car and the soldier
to the city jail the soldier jumped
from the machine and hurled over
the embankment along Naco road.
Later Officers "Tex" Barton and
Hill Ruff heard there was a suspicions
looking soldier . lurking about Dub-
acher Canyon. Upon going to the)
neighborhood they found their man
and place dhini under arrest.
.Another case of "joy riding" with
another man's machine occurred
Saturday night, when four or five Bis
bee youngsters helped themselves to
a Dodge car and used it for several
hours.
Another abuse of good traffic regu
lations was reported yes.erday from
Eakerville. .
Two cars were being dr ven towards
Lowell along the paved roadway. The
driver of the first car noticed a crowd
of small children on the edge of the
pavement. He sounded his horn sev-'
eral times and when very close thei
youngsters tied and a man fell in '
front of the car. !
The driver swerved sharply to onej
side. Had there been a culvert or
ditch along the road at that point i
the aiitAninhilo wnulri have hHn haillv !
jn,oMj Th mur, .mn hi.i in. I
vestigated. proved to be a well made
iiimitv VajhUdss trt g9 tiiA iirivprs I
' - ---- . . I
were greatly wrathy over the anair
CONDITIONS
I
but little recourse could be had fromi'"" o.u. ..r,c .........
the children who had decamped. This! Ashing, commanding the Cnited
ls merely another evidence of the States troops on the border,
prevailing conditions in the Warren The message says that Villa seeks
District. I t0 pxnerate himself from any blame
In behalf or the officers it can be,1" coiuienum uu i..-
justly said that they are doing every-
thing in their power to eliminate the I
evils. It has been urged that the j
Sheriff Dut a special man on the road !
k. n;K r,i ti-.rron The
nroan nffWr in attemlinc ot their
routine and ordinary work, have
their hands full and can not attend j
to the work of a traffic officer. It U j
thought that something will be done)
to alleviate the trouble in the near
future, in order to prevent more seri
ous accidents than are now occurring
on the District streets and highways.
PLEDGED TO WILSON.
TRENTON. N. J.. March 6 The
Democratic State committee endors
ed the national administration and
pledged support to President Wilson's
reelection.
known "bad ones" are sent out.
That the conditions are no worse is
attributed to the watchfulness of the
officers of the District und their tin
teasine work both night and day.
18 PRISONERS .
ARE BURNED
10 DEATH
! Gasoline Responsible for
Blaze in EI Paso Jail Which ,
Results Seriously for Six of .
the Inmates. , !
OTH ERS EFFECT THEIR
! ESCAPE DURING FIRE
! . ' " i
i Terrible Scenes Accompany :
the Holocaust Men's Hair '
Burned From Bodies; No!
Chance to Escape. j
EL PASO, March 8. Eighteen
victims of the jail txplosion are
dsad and more, expected, to die
before daylight. PHetps is in a
hospital and his condition is said
to be critical. j
EL PASO, March 6. Six. pri
soners were burned to death and
forty seriouEly injured in a fire
in the city jail bjth house started
by a blaze from a flash flame in
a tub of gasoline and kerosene
solution used to destroy a germ
carrying lice. The first reports of
the officials attributed the fire to
the edlibcrate action of a prison
er in throwing a match into the
tub. More than a score of prison
ers were thoroughly saturated and
enveloped by flames, t he exists
were opened and a number of
prisoners escaped, although burn
ed. Rows of cells surrounding
the bath were mostly filled. Here
most of the fatalities occurred.
The flames were extinguished be
fore the new part of the jail,
caught fire.
H. Cross, an American, died of
his injuries.. He named the man
who threw the match. On fire
from head to fooi, nude victims
dashed into the street, maddened
with pain. They outdistanced
their pursuers and disappeared.
Only one was found several hours
after the disaster. Every hair was
burned from the heads of the vic
tims and the flash of many was
crisped. One climbed through a
broken window to the roof of the
prison and died like a torch be
fore the firemen arrived. The doc
tor issued an order against mat
ches. Leader of the Rebels in the
North is Said to be On His
Way to Washington to In
terview Wilson.
I EL PASO. March 6. Francisco
i Villa is within six miles of the Cnited
' Ctaliia hfirHar on, I nn his wnv to Vsh-
Itlgton
where he will seek an inter-
view with President Wilson,
accord-
'I to a received by General
Gavira
commanding Juarez, who
, .:,,. ,, Ihrimol. V.
"-"""" " " " ":al
I massacre in which eighteen foreigners
,ast J nd to furth-
" endeavor to place before the Presi-
pnl ' position ... iur p.r.u ,u.
tion in Mexico. The
message said
a few miles
that Villa encamped
I south of Columbus.
New Mexico
BAKER FOR SECRETARY
WASHINGTON. March 6.
Newton D. Baker, former may-
or or Cleveland, was selected
by President Wilson as Secre-
tary or War. His nomination
will go to the Senate tomor-
row. The administration ex-
pects a quick conrirmatlon so
the new secretary can take ac-
live charge ror plans ror army
increases and reorganization.
Baker ls a lawyer and leader
among Ohio Democrats and
a warm supporter of President
AVilson's policies since the pre-
convention campaign or 1912.
He telegraphed thet he wtvild
be in Washington Thursday.
jVILLA REPORTED
i ON WAY TO
CAPITAL
'MAKE TEXAS DRY," ANTI-SALOON SLOGAN
IN LONE STAR STATE; BRYAN IN FIGHT
mzzzz
shaded. FjmY"Cer 22 r-y
L BLACK, "WET" J $ 1 ,
j Showing areas in Texas wrested from Demon Rum.
A campaign to make Texas dry is among the possibilities of the near
future in the Lone Star state. William Jenninps Bryan will address the
annual convention of the Texas Anti-Saloon League this month, and
it is believed he will urge a constitutional amendment banishing the saloon
from the state. At the Convention the question ol "submission" will be
decided. -,
LiilwslimicTs
ARE WIDER
APART
Trouble for the Administra
tion is Expected When Arm-;
ed Ship Resolution Comes j
Up for Vote.
WASHINGTON, March 6. On the
eve or what friends of the Administra
tion have planned as a final 1'ht to
end agitation
the House over the
question ot armed merchant ships a
debute broke on the floor or the House ;
e.nd continued hotly for an hour. When
it was over there seemed to exist a
more partisan alignment .than at any
time since the issue arose.
Representative Mann of Illinois, Re
publican leader, and Representative
Lenroot or the Republican Rules Com
mittee, gave notice that they would
oppose the mle tomorrow under which
it is proposed to table the McLenore
resolution, after the ninety minutes of
debate rule and four hours of discus
sion of the resolution. Chairman Flood
of the Foreign Affairs, is understood
personally if favor the warning reso
lution but was appealed to by patriot
ic congressmen to stand by the Presi
dent: Realizing the task ahead. Adminis
tration whips sent calls to all absent
Democrats within reach to hurry to
Washington in time to vate. The Pres
ident's supporters believe a large ma
jority of Democrats and many Repub
licans will stand together and pu
through a rule to kill th McLenore
resolution.
Formidable opposition is expected
both in and out of the party and the
influence of Bryan is taken into ac
count as a big factor to be dealt with.
I". n A,, Q, 1 &-A 1 T, lfl UAIV
ruu'lrru I W'"'
ators met at a lunch with Bryan in the
private dining room or a hotel near the
Capitol and discussed affairs. What
happened was kept secret, except that
no general agreement was reached con
cerning action on the armed ships
question.
"Several of tbe diners asked Bryan
what we should do." said Representa
tive Bailey, "but instructions were not
forthcoming."
Because of tbe necessity of trans
lating the German appendices, th
President and Secretary loosing have
not yet had opportunity to consider
them in their entirety. Probably they
will be ready tomorrow. Colonel House
who returned from Europe yesterday
is understood to have advised the
President that Germany feels justified
in her new policy and Is not bluffing.
Colonel House reported that Germany
has no desire ror war with the Cnited
States.
TheGerman Foreign Office claims
the appendices offer conclusive evi
dence that British merchantmen are
using defensive armament against Teu
tonic submarines. It is authoritatively
stated that the British will roatnd
I that tbe instructions to merchantmen
has not In any way violated th assure
antes given the United Stt. thst
(their merchant naeti will use tit armsy
ment only for defense.
FLETCHER Oil
THE IIAVf
i . ri . c ivances bv the Germans in the Verdun
Admiral of Atlantic Fleet Says,aml Cnampaisne rPRion ar told in lh
VY lth the Present Program ; latest French official communication.
Complete U. S. Could With-' which reports successes in repelling
Stand Two Nations. German attempt to debouche further
i from the captured positions, driving
WASHINGTON, Match 6.-Three t1"" Germans of the trench, and ham
dreadnaughts and four battle cruisers jmering with big guns the German line,
added to the American neet, built ; Having vigorously fhelled the region
and authorized, would make it the between Bethinrourt and Meuse. the
eu.ua! fighting strength or the present
German fleet. Admiral Fletcher, com-
! niander of the Atlantic fleet, declared
before the House Naval Committee. a debouche aeainst Cote d L'Oie. but
While Germany has seven battle French counter movement held them,
cmlseri the Inked States has none PKTROGRAD. March 6. The Rus
The admiral said that the thirty-live '8jan Rja(- Sea fleet is extending its
knot craft proposed by the Navy de-;sropB of op4,rations as far 'westward
department would be so much super- as Trt.bi7on,. jt bombarded the mourb
ior to anything afloat that or four of of ,ne Terma River wb,.rt, a flm of
them possibly three would more than KltjIini Wej is ,.,ving rPfll) tnir,r
onset uermany s seven.
With the present fleet of forty-two
battleships of all types and htree ad
ditional dreadnaughts and seven bat
tle cruisers. Fletcher thought we
"could reasonably expect to make a
good defense, although not absolute,"
on both coasts against any two enemy
powers, not including Great Britain.
TU admiral said he and a majority
or the higher officers disapproved of Those remaining ar falling victims,
the personal board proposal to suh- according to advices here, to the de
stitute promotion by selection for moralized T-irkish soldiers, who are
the seniority system. He thought said to be lootine stores and houses,
training and education of all navy otfi- anrt cresting a reien of terror,
cers was so nearly identical that there . PKTROGRAD. March 6 An official
was little to choose among ninety per ! s,at, ment SJtys: -On the western
cent of the men of any grade. front our artillery demolished a por-
; tion of the enemv's trenches south
MORE BRANDEIS OPPOSITION ! rd ot th. Lake Bubif and Riga sec
WASHINGTON, March 6-Rev.'tor Kastward from Freiddicbstadt
James Cannon, Jr., or Virginia, chair
man of the legislative committee of
the Anti-Saloon League, protested
against tbe confirmation of 1-ouis
Brandeis, whose nomination to the
Supreme Court Is before the Senate
Investigating committee, because or
statements made made by Mr. Bran-
dels In 1S91 m-hpn h sas rnunu.l fnr
the Protective Liquor Dealers Assu- ,roof,s '""d"'1 nnT an in,en !'u,"
ciatlon and New England Brewers' Putins fire from our fleet in the occu
Association before the : Massachu-; P'"1 ,own r A,in" in ,h" B,ark Se
setts legislature.
AGAINST CHIHUAHUA GAM BLING iat' P0"' consisted of two offi-
.cers. men. guns and ammunition.
WASHINGTON .March 6.-A vigor- Detachtrents are continuing in pursuit
oua campaign against gambling and occupied the vilage of Mapraka. mid
liquor traffic in the State of Chihuahua , w"v between Atina and Riza."
is forecasted In dispatches rrom the WASHINGTON. March 6. The A in
state government to the Mexican em- erican consulate at Trebizond. a Turk-
bassy. Details are not given and it isjish Black Sea port, was struck by a
uncertain whether an effort to pre- shell during the bombardment hy twe
vent racing at Juarez is contemplated, j Russian torpedo boats on March 1.
! One Persian subject was killed wit hie
RISING WATER THREATEN .twenty feet of the desk of Consul Hei-
zer. Another shell struck the resi-
HANFORD. Calif., March 6. Wheat dence of the vice-consul adjoining.
and Barley estimated at a value of
$1,500,000 are threatened hy unprece-
ilantKl tWffh ho ..ru n Tnl.H 1 all.
. i . . u infill " I - i 1 u i u I - Min.. i
The waters have caused the breaking! rio JAN1ERO, March . Four
of tbe levee in the Goldberg Recla-; hundred lives were lost in the sink
mstion district and swollen river; nK f the Spanish stesmshfp Prlneipe
and streams tributary to the Tule ami T a,, vvustriss. The vessel rwsjuH
Km river. Tulare Lake ls Ud Uif f)oet enly a shert tirje after steifcinjc
0 a.re et 80 t-1Usre mlls end lread.y j sheet'off San ?ehjen. and: tie
slj eeetieos of wheat and harley are sd hut little time te escape,
tnnodnted. Grain growers helieve tuel steamers are searrhing" fer survive. re.
Uke wUI continue to fill until the mid- r -horn 143 alresdv have been land-
die ot June.
SEA COMBAT
1,11111
IN NORTH
SEA
British, Russian and German
Fleets Believed Lining Up
for Decisive Battle; Lon
doners in Suspense.
GERMANS ADVANCE
BEFORE VERDUN
Russian Black Sea Fleet Ex
tends Operations; Czar's
Armies Succeed; Russian
Shell Hits. U. S. Consulate.
LONDOX. March 6 Persistent ru
mors here of a several days' naval bat-
jtie in the North Sea zone, created m
ipectancy among Londoner.' Interest
! was heightened by dispatches received
!from Scandinavia predicting that a bac
tie between Russian. Uritish and Ger
man fleets was near at band. Russian
j torpedo boats are reported near the
island of Oland. Sweden. In the Baltic
and six German submarines off Oxel
sund. sou'h of Stockholm. General
opinion evists in Scandinavia that Ger
'man sailings to Sweden will be. inter
cepted as soon as the ice has cleared.
1 Naval experts predict that big events
'are pending.
! LONDON'. March 6. Further ad-
German infantry captured the villag
of Varges. nine miles northwest of
Verdun. Several times they essayed
miles past of Terma. The warships
.destroyed the barritades. th depots
and many of the Turkish craft.
Along the coast between these two
points in the last few days the Rus
sians have sunk more than thirty sail
ing vessels laden with war supplies.
It is reported virtually all the civil
population of Trebizond has evacuated
we are ble to confirm the success ot
our artillery on the German working
parties. Scouting parties approaching
positions between the Oldevints and
Sussey rivers' were dispersed. Fight
ing for possession of the craters con
tinues in the Dvinsk position near 111-
:oukst. In the Caucasus front our
'east of Trebizond. Deploying souia-
tward they forced the Turks to evacn-
FOUR HUNDRED DROWN.
..A
