L Today's Metal Prices fwfX A ill iV A' SkT VViV V X- I 4 P. M, CITY EDITION I
R quoted; copper, firm; electrolytic, " L VX WEATHER Utah: Tonight and J'H
if nearby, $28.0O28.50; June and later, f ' Aa, 7 Wednesday Fair, Not Much Change Ml
$26.7627.50. W. ln Temperature. H
; HAS THE LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTY. " J 1
. . - ; . H
I Forty-sixth Year-No. 57. Price: Five Cent. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, MARCH 7, 1916. Entercd aa Sccond CTaa3 Matter at thePostomie. Cden. i. H
Fleet of Twenty-f ive German Dreadnoughts I
"are Reported Cruising in the North Sea I
. H
f HOUSE CASTS'TWO TEST VOTES
f ON M'LEMORE RESOLUTION
Rejects Proposals Made by Side Opposing Administration
Leaders by One Vote of 256 to 160 and Another of 271
to 138 -Forecast Is That Resolution Will Be Tabled
by a Big Majority When Acted on This Evening.
, ' Washington, "March 7. President
Wilson's stand, that congTess shall
not advise Americans to abandon
their rights to travel the seas on mer
chant ships armed for defense in ac
J cordance with international law, was
endorsed in the house today by two
heavy test votes on the McLemore
j resolution.
By substantial majorities the ad
ministration forces defeated attempts
( to amend the resolution to the liking
of the president's opponents and put
' It squarely before the house without
J amendmpnt for a vote under a special
rule at the end of four hours' debate.
' Will Vote on Resolution Tonight.
About six o'clock tills evening the
administration forces will move to
I table the McLemore resolution and
the heavy votes they polled in the
'. two preliminary tests indicate that
they will kill it by a substantial ma
ll jority.
Onco tabled the resolution will have
gone the way of the Gore resolution
in the senate and a majority of con
gress will have been placed on record
before the world as demonstrating
that It does not endorse the dissen
sions against the president's -foreign
policy.
Lansing to Resume Negotiations.
With the agitation finally disposed
of the president and Secretary Lan
sing will resume the submarine nego
I tia Lions with Germany.
In quick succession today the house
rejected the proposal to allow anti
administration amendment? to the
McLemore resolution and then adopt
ed the special rule for consideration
of the resolution itself routing the op
position by votes of 256 to 160 and
271 to 138, respectively.
Immediately after the adoption of
the rule, debate began on tho resolu
tion Itself, Chairman Flood of the for
eign affairs committee, moving to
table It.
tycLemore Resolution "Text.
The text of the McLemore resolu
tion following a lengthy preamble is
as follows:
"Resolved, that the house of repre
sentatives of the 64th congress of the
United States do and It hereby does
' request the president to warn all
American citizens within the borders
of the United States or Its possessions
or elsewhere to refrain from traveling
on any and all ships of any and all of
the powers nor or ln future at war,
which ship or ships shall mount guns,
whether such Bhip be frankly avowed
a part of the naval forces of the pow
er whose flag it flies or shall be call
ed a merchant ship or otherwise and
whether such gun or guns or other
armament be called "offensive or 'de
fensive'; and ln case American citi
zens do travel on such armed bellig
erent ships that they do bo at their
own risk;
"That whenever the president of the
United StateB or the secretary of state
shall come into possession of the act
ual memorandum of the German gov
ernment containing photographic fas
slmllies of secret instructions Issued
by the British government which al
leges secret instructions direct so-called
defensive armament for merchant
Bhips shall be manned and directed by
naval officers and men of the navy of
! Great Britain and that such so-callod
1 'defensive armament for merchant
shipB' and such naval offlcersand men
shall be af far as possible concealed
, and disguised when in neutral waters
and ports with the evident intention
to deceive, the president of the United
States or the secretary of state shall
at the earliest possible moment trans
V. mlt such actual memorandum of. the
JW German government with such fac
similleB of alleged secret InstructionB
of the British government and with
all appendices whatsoever, to the
speaker of the house that it and they
may be laid before the house for its
full Information and for its assist
ance in performing its duty and func
tion ot guarding Uie welfare- of the
country ana its citizens "and for its
f assistance in performing Its constitu-
tlonal duty of advising the president
1 f of the United States with regard to
t foreign relations
"That the house expresses the de-
termination of the people and gov
ernment of the United States both to
uphold all American rights and to ex
ercise care and wisdom in avoiding
: aotions which tend to bring American
i citizens and American Interests Into
the zone of conflict where the pas-
aions of war are raging."
Mann Makec Plea.
Republican Leader Mann in a ton
' minute speech pleaded that tho house
defeat the special rule in order that
the McLemore resolution might be
I amended and a vote on a straight
? warning resolution obtained.
a At 12:44 p. m. all tlmo for debate
1 oil the rule bad expired and Repre-
seutatlve Garrett of Tennessee moved
tho previous question.
When the speaker put it there was
i a tromendous chorus of "ayes" and
"noes."
Representative Oampboll of Ken-
tucky demanded a division and Repre
sentative Pou demanded a roll call.
Voting began at 12:46 p. m. The vote
on the previous question resulted 256
to 160.
Pou Makes Attack.
Mr. Pou attacked the McLemore re
solution at the outset:
"It means in effect that if an Amer
ican disregards a warning that the
United States government will fold
hands," he said "Is there a single
red blooded citizen in this country
who wants to do that? It is charged
that tho president wants a war. All
the imps of hell never devised a more
infamous charge. No man since Abra
ham Lincoln has gone through such a
test as the president has gone through
in tho last six months. He has tried
to preserve peace. He would not
sacrifice a single life to mako himself
president for a life time. He has sup
port ot both sides of this chamber
He has support on the Democratic
side and distinguished support on the
other side. Only the other day I read
a statement of Former President Taft
supporting him." (Applause on both
sides of the chamber followed his re
marks). Campbell Has Resolution.
When Representative Campbell, Re
publican, arose to speak he read a
substitute he said he would propose if
a motion to end debate on the rule did
not carry
It follows -
"Resolved, that in the opinion of
the house ot representatives, citizens
of the -United States under existing
conditions and irrespective of their
legal right, ought to refrain from tak
ing passage on armed vessels of bel
ligerent nations, except in case of im
perative necessity."
"There is no great question of na
tional rights Involved in this issue,"
declared Mr Campbell, "nor is there
any great crisis involving the honor
of the United States at this time. Does
anyone contend that an American
citizen has a right to travel on an
armed cruiser of a nation at war?
"The thing to do is to avoid war.
The question ought not to have beeu
brought hero" he continued. "Now it
is here. Vote squarely on a resolu
tion warning citizens of the Unlt
States that they must not get on arm
ed ships of belligerent nations."
Gardner Is Applauded.
Scattered applause on the Demo
cratic side greeted Representative
Gardner who spoke on the parliamen
tary status ot tho McLemore resolu
tion. "If you want to stand with the presi
dent and two ex-presidents you will
vote to sustain the rule and table the
McLemore resolution" he said.
Republican Upholds Preoldent.
"The thought farthest from Presi
dent Wilson's mind is a desire for
war," declared Representative Ben
nett Republican of New York. He at
tacked the resolution as "cowardly,
evasive and treacherous." He com
plained that tho house gave many
hours to routine business and would
give only four hours to consider a
resolution involving war.
Representative Graham of Pennsyl
vania, Republican, declared:
"Today I don't want to be pro-German.
pro-Austrian, or pro-anythlng. I
want to be only an American to stand
up and face the world -for Its rights."
The "rebel" yell rang out from the
Democratic side.
Mann For Resolution.
"If wo are informed correctly," Re
publican Leader Mann said, "the presi
dent desires our opinions on the sub
ject of American cltizenB traveling on
armed vessels of belligerent nations.
We express no opinion on the subject
by laying tho McLemoro resolution
on the table unless such an action be
construed as an invitation to travel.
I am not in favor of extending any
such invitation which might bring us
into international complication.
"I would not seek to offer my own
oplnidn In a caao HRe tnis, out Trntm
tho president asks for it It is our duty
to meet tho question if airly and square
ly. "We have not sought to annoy tho
president, but when he asks for our
opinion, let us toll him frankly we do
not desire complications which would
lead to war. If we meet the question
fairly, we must vote down the prev
ious question, and then vote on the
substitute which will be offered by
Mr. Campbell ot Kansas.
"Let us be fair enough to the presi
dent, to ourselves and to our country
to meet tho issue and exprcsB the
opinion that we have the power there-'
by to prevent the war which all hope
will not come."
The vote on the previous question
which was the crucial test follows:
For tho administration:
Democrats Abercrombie, Adam
son, Aiken, Alexander, Allen, Almon,
Ashbrook, Aswell, Ayers, Barkley,
Barnhart, Beakes, Bell, Blackmon,
Booher, Borland, Brumbaugh, Burgess,
Buruott, Byrnes (South Carolina).
Byrnes (Tennessee), Caldwell, Cand
ler, Cantrill, Caraway, Carow. Carlln,
Carter (Oklahoma),, Casey, Church,
Cli.ne, Coady, Collier, Connelly, Conry,
Cox, Crisp, Crosser, Davenport, Deck
er, Dent, De Walt, Dickinson, Dill,
Dixon, Dolittle, Doremus, Doughton,
Dupre, Eagan, Eaglo, .Edwards, Esto
pinal, Evans, Farley, Ferris, Fields,
' Flnley Fitzgerald, Flood, Foster, Gal
lagher, Gallivan, Gandy, Gard, Gard
ener, Garrett, Glass, Goodwin (North
Carolina), Goodwin (Arkansas), Gor
don, Gray (Alabama), Qray (Indiana),
Griffin, Hamlin, Hardy, Harrison,
Hrt, Hastings, Hay. Hayden, Heflin,
Helm, Helverlng, Hensley, Holland,
Hood, Houston, Howard-, Huddleston,
Hughes, Hulbert Hull (Tennessee),
Humphries (Mississippi), Igoe, Jaco
way, Jones, Kettnor, Key, Klncheloe,
Kitchin, LaSaro, Lee, Lesher, Lever,
Liob, Liobel, LInthincum, LIttlcpage,
Lloyd, McAndrews. McCllntic, McGil
llcuddy, McKellar, Maher, Mays, Mon
tague, Moon, Morgan (Louisiana),
Morrison, Moss (Indiana), Murray,
Neeley, Nichols (South Carolina),
Oglesby, Oldfield, Oliver, Olney,
O'Shaunessy, Overmyor, Padgett,
Page (North Carolina), Park. Patten,
Phelan, Pou, Price, Quin, Ragsdalo,
Rainey, Raker, Randall, Rauch, Ray
burn, Rellly, Riordan. Rouso, Rubey,
Ricker, Russell (Missouri), Saundere,
Scully, Sears, Shafckleford, Shallen
burger, Sherley, Sherwood, Sims. Sis
son, Small, Smith (Texas), Spark
man, Steagoll, Stedman, Steel (Iowa),
Stoe'le (Pennsylvania), Stephens
Mississippi), Stevens (Texas), Stone,
Stoat Summers, Taggart, Tague, Tal
bott, Taylor (Arkansas), Thomas,
Thompson, Tillman, Tribble, Venable,
Vinson. Walker, Watkins, Watson
(Virginia), Webb. Whaley. William E
Williams (Illinois), WllBon (Florida),
Wilson (Louisiana), Wingo. Wise,
Young (Texas)
Total Democrats. 192.
Republicans Bacharach, Beals,
Brltt, Carter (Massachusetts), Cooper
(Ohio), Cooper (West Virginia), Cra
go, Dale (Vermont), Dallingcr, Demp
scy, Dunn, Emerson, Fairchlld, Farr,
Fobs. Freeman, Gardner, Gillette,
Glvnn, Graham, Gray (New Jersey),
Green (Massachusetts), Green (Ver
mont), Grlest, Guernsey, Hamilton
(Nqw York), Hinds, Husted, James
Kelley, Kennedy (Rhode Island),
KIgsb, Krelder, Lafcan, McFaddeu,
McLaughlin, Magee, Maher, Miller
(Delaware), Morln, Mott Nichols
(Michigan), Paige (Massachusetts),
Parker (New Jersey), Parker (New
York), Peters, Piatt, Porter, Rogers,
Sanford. Scott (Michigan), Scott
(Pennsylvania), Sells, Snyder, Stl
liess. Temple, TInkham, Treadway,
Vare, Walsh, Ward, Wason, WInslow.
Total Republicans, 63.
Progressive Miartin.
Grand total 256.
Nays:
Democrats Bailey, Black, Bruck
ner, Buchanan (Illinois), Buchanan
(Texas), Burke, Callaway, Dale (Now
York), Davis (Texas), Flynn, Hamlll,
Johnson (Kentucky), Keating, Konop,
Lobeck, McLemore, Shouse, Slaydon,
Stephens (Nebraska), Tavenner, Van
dyke. Total Democrats 21
Republicans Anderson, Anthony,
Austin, Barchfield, Bennett, Britten,
Browne (Wisconsin), Browning, But
ler, Campbell, Cannon, Capstick,
Caroy, Chandler, Charles, Chiperfield,
Coleman, Cooper (Wisconsin), Costel
lo, Cramtpon, Curry, Danforth, Dar
row, Davis (Minnesota), Denison, Dil
lon, Dowell, Drukker, Dyer, Ellsworth,
Esch, Fess. Focht Fordney, Frear,
Suller, Garland. Good, Gould. Green
(Iowa), Hadley, Haskell, Haugen,
Hawlov, Hayes, Heaton, Helgesen,
Hernandez, Hicks, Hill, Hollings
worth, Hopewood, Howell, Hull
(Iowa), Humphrey (Washington),
Hutchinson, Johnson (South Dakota),
Johnson (Washington), Kahn, Kearns,
Kclster, Kennedy (Iowa), King, Kin
caid, LaFolletto, Langtry, Lehlbach,
Lenroot, Lindbergh, Longworth, Loud,
McArthur, McCracken, McCulloch, Mc
Kenzle McKinlcy, Maddon, Mann,
Matthews, Meeker, Miller (Minneso
ta), Miller, Miller (Pennsylvania),
Mondell, Moonoy, Moore (Pennsyl
vania), Moores (Indiana), Morgan
(Oklahoma), Moss (West Virginia),
Mudd, Nelson. North, Norton, Oakey,
Powers, Pratt, Ramsoyer, ReavlB,
Ricketts, Roberts (Massachusetts) ,
Roberts (Nevada), Rodenberg, Rowe,
Rowland, Russell (Ohio), Siegel, Sln
nott, Slerap, Sloan, Smith (Idaho),
Smith (Michigan), Smith (Minne
sota), Stafford, Steenerson, Sterling.
Sulloway, Sutherland, Sweet, Swift,
Switzer, Tilson, Timberlake, Towner,
Volstead, Watson (Pennsylvania),
Whoeler, Thomas S. WilllamB (Illi
nois), Williams (Ohio), Wilson(IlU
nols), vvoocr (xndrnxra), ,rwm
(Iowa), Yroung (North Dakota).
Total Republicans 132.
Progressives Copley, Elston, No
lan, Schall, Stephens (Iowa).
Total Progressives 5.
Independent Kent.
Total 1.
Socialists Long.
Total 1.
Grand total Nays: 160.
Submarine Campaign Defended.
Representative Ellsworth of Minne
sota, Republican, followed Chairman
Flood, supporting tho resolution and
defending the G-orman submarine cam
paign. Representative Heflin, Democrat, of
Alabama, congratulated some of the
Republicans for standing with Pres
ident Wilson in the fight
Wilson va. Kaiser.
"I am glad to see men big enough
to break away from their leader and
stand with the president and against
the kaiser," Mr. Heflin said. "It Is
Lansing and Wilson or Von Bernstorff'
and the Kaiser." '
Appealing to the south, Mr. Heflin
asked where she stood. His answer
came from Representative Candler of
Mississippi who shouted from the rear
of the chamber that the south stood
solidly with the president.
Shackleford Surprises ,House.
Representative Shackleford of Mis.
souri, one of the leaders ln the agl
tation for a warning, surprised every
body by urging that the McLemore
resolution bo tabled. Since the out
set of agitation he has urged the pass
age of a warning resolution.
Charging the Democrats with in
sincerity, Representative Meeker, Re
publican of Missouri, declared:
"You talk one way and then pro.
pose to table the resolution so aB to
prevent a show-down."
"Don't you suppose," ho asked,
"that this talk in the public will go
abroad at the same time your vote
does? I'm not pro-German nor pro-
. but i am pio-horsG z 2e."
-' oo
FRENCH OFFICER
REVIEWS BATTLE
Relates Experiences and Ob
servations in Great Verdun
Fight Decisive Struggle
Begins With Fury.
LOSSES ARE ENORMOUS
Cool Bravery of Men Under
Frightful Bombardment Is
Wonderful French Vie
With Each Other.
Paris, March 6. An artillery officer
who took part in the battle of Ver
dun has been authorized to make the
following statement of his experiences
and observations:
"After February 21, when tho Ger
mans began the preparation for the
attack with that fury which has al
ready been described, wo"inder3toda
that a decisive struggle was about to
be engaged. Our group was then In
position to the southeast of Haumont
wood A battery was divided up for
flanking purposes on three positions,
ono to the cast of the Haumont wood,
one to the south and a third to the
north of Samogneux. The two other
batteries were to the south of Hill No
312, which lies to the past of Hill 344.
I We wore supported by a battery of
six pieces of 90-mIUlmetre guns.
I French Curtain of Fire.
"We naturally replied" at once to
the German attack with a curtain fire
to prevent as far as possible the en
emy Infantry from opening a path Into
our lines. One ot our sections even
went forward Into the Caures ravine
and opened fire at 700 metres But
the Germane, despite enormouB losses
of men, commenced to overflow on
all sides. They arrived at the Caures
wood by tho tops of the hills which
run between the Haumont wood and
the Caures wood and they progressive
ly invaded these positions. The sec
tion which was trying to retiin them
kept shortening Its flro as they ad
vanced, mowing down entire ranks.
"Now waves replaced those of the
Germans who died and the section
kept on firing, exhausting its ammuni
tion. It was hard at work when
groups of the enemy who had succeed
ed In penetrating got behind the guns.
Although thoy had been turned, our
artillerymen did not lose their pres
ence of mind They blow up their
guns and rotrcatcd, carrying off a
sergeant who had been wounded.
Germans Heavy Guns.
"A battery of 90-rollllmetre guns es
tablished at Haumont, although it had
been reachod by an infernal fire, val
iantly carried out all Instructions giv
en to It Shells of 305-inllIimetre cali
ber from the Germany heavy guns
literally rained around this battery.
In less than a minute thirteen of them
fell around our guns and the battery
of 90's, after haying wiped out a large
number of the enemy, was obliged to
cease firing. At this moment a ser
geant major of a battery of field ar
tillery named Piorrard, approached
the commander of the group of bat
teries and said: 'Commander, my bat
tery of B8's no longer exists. Please
employ me elsewhere.' 'Very well,'
roplled the commander. 'Put yourself
at tho disposal of tho battery of 90's."
Gunner Serves 48 Hours.
had been working Vith him aud
brought them to the battery of 90's
and opened the fire again and with
admirable vigor. He served the pie
ces for forty-eight, hours and kept con
stantly In communication with the
commander, demanding ammunition
for his duel, a veritably epic duel with
the German guns. Unfortunately It
was Impossible at last to send him
supplies. 'Use up what you have In
tho way of ammunition' ordered the
commander, 'and then blow up your
guns.'
"The enemy was approaching. Their
first ranks came so noar the guns that
Plerrard and his companions had to
defond themselves with their carbines.
Blows Up Guna.
"Then they bognn to flro again with
the 90's until the moment when their
position became absolutely untenable
and he blew up the guns and with
drew. Probably during this movement
of falling back Plerrard, bravo among
multitudes of brave men. was killed.
I He disappeared from that moment
(Continued on Pago 7.)
SUTHERLAND FOR
WILSON POLICY
Utah Senator Stands Squarely
for President in Armed Ship
Issue With Germany.
NATION FACING DUTY
Must Yield to Law and Not
Law Yield to Submarine
Status of Ships.
Washington, March 7. Discussing
the armed ship issue in the senate to
day Senator Sutherland of Utah, a
Republican member of the foreign re
lations' committee, stood squarely be
hind President Wilson ln his policy in
dealing with Germany in the submar
ine negotiations.
"I do not want war at any time,"
said Senator Sutherland, "and I pray
God that It may not come now, but I
would rather have war with all Its
sacrifices and suffering than that this
nation, with its long history of hero
Ism and glory, should play the pol
troon when confronted by a supreme
national duty, because it places great
er value upon its ease than' upon Its
honor.
Must Resent Attack.
"I am one of those who desire
peace," the senator continued, "but a
nation, when all other means fall, that
will not resent a flagrant and Illegal
attack upon the lives of Its own citi
zens Is only less detestable than a
man who will not fight for his wife
and children. And, believing as I do
about that, if tho life of an American
citizen Is again taken by tho illegal
and deliberate sinking without warn
ing of a merchant vessel, armed only
for defense, that this government
should hold the offending nation to a
stern reckoning, I shall never give
ray consent to the issuance of a form
al and official notice such as has been
proposed, which, if not heeded, would
without minimizing our duty In the
least, have the effect of embarrassing
and weakening our moral standing It
we should once more be under the sad
necessity of seeking reparation for
the destruction of the lives of our
people."
Legal Status of Submarine.
Senator Sutherland, In discussing
the legal status of armed merchant
ships under international law and tho
relation thereto of the submarine, con
tended that the submarine must yield
to tho law and not the law to the sub
marine. If tho law yields to the sub
marine, he said, and allows the under
water boat to sink vessels, armed de
fensively only, without warning and
without giving passengers and crew a
chance to get to a place of safety, it
will bo inviting the sinking of unarm
ed ships as well, since, he said, it is
well nigh impossible for the officers
of a submarine to time in advance
whether a given vessel Is armed or
not The result will bo that unarmed
vessels, while possessing immunity In
theory, will have none in fact
"The question next arises and, in
deed it is really the crucial question
shall our citizens be officially advised
to forbear from traveling on belliger
ent merchant vessels, armed for de
fense only? Or, indeed shall we go
further and forbld their doing so un
der penalty for disobedience? If I
am correct In what I have already
said, namely, that these merchant
ships have the right to carry defensive
armament, It follows that such a ship
has the same status as though un
armed and the right of a neutral citi
zen to transport his goods or travel
upon either is the same and not a dif
ferent right and that. In fact, is the
decision of our own supreme court in
a great case decided many years ago
and never since overruled or modi
fled "If, therefore, a citizen take pass
age upon a ship so armed and lose his
life by the sinking of the ship with
out warning, what must be the con
tention and claim of this government?
To ray mind clearly this: That the
citizen ln the exorcise of a clear right
has been deprived of his life by this
deliberately Illegal aot of the belliger
ent government which sent the sub
marine on Its mission of death."
Senator Sutherland alBo opposed
change ln the rulo with respect to the
merchant ships for defense, assort
ing that any changes now would be
an unneutral act
oo
WASHINGTON LAW TO
BE BITTERLY FOUGHT
Tacoma Wash., Mar. 7. State offici
als said today they wore prepared, if
necessary, to carry to the United
States supreme court, a case on trial
in a justice court here, to determine
whether Washington minimum wage
law violates the constitutional right
of freedom from ImprlBonment for
debt. According to E. N. Olsen, state
labor commissioner, the entire ques
tion of minimum wage legislation Is
involved.
A. M. Anderson, head of a collection
Arm, the defendant, who is charged
with paying his stenographer less than
the minimum wago provided by the
law, bases his defenso on tho constitu
tional provision against imprisonment
for debt,
GERMAN GUNS POUNDING WAY TO I
VERDI FORTS FROM WEST SIDE I
Crown Prince Troops Take Town of Forges After Violent H
Bombardment Hill No. 625 Captured, the Germans
Suffering Heavy Losses French Hold Lines Fur- H
ther West Australian Brigade in the Verdun H
Fight British Big Guns Doing H
Great Execution. H
Rome, March 5, via London, March 5, 2:08 p. m., (de- H
layed). Twenty German dreadnoughts have left Kiel, ac- H
cording to information received here today. H
The foregoing dispatch was held up by the British cen- H
sor for two days. Another dispatch filed in London at 3:25 H
o'clock this morning said that a fleet of twenty-five German H
warships was observed Monday cruising in the North sea. This jH
message was received in London from Vlieland, near North H
Holland.
Paris, March 7, via London, 1 :20 p. m. Further progress H
has been made by the Germans in the Verdun region to the H
west of the Meuse. Announcement was made here semi-offi- H
cially today that they had succeeded by means of violent bom- jH
bardment in pushing along the railroad in the neighborhood v
of Regneville. H
Paris, March 7, via London, 2 p. m.
The war office announced today
that a division of German troops ad
vancing to the attack has captured
Hill No. 625.
The war office announcement fol
lows: "In the Argonne district endeavors
on tho part of the enemy at Haute
Chevauchee to occupy a mine crater
have been repulsed. Our artillery
has continued its bombardment of the
lines of communication of the enemy
west of the river Meuse.
Germans Capture Hill.
"Favored by an Intense bombard
ment, German troops have been able
to advance along the railroad line in
the neighborhood of Regneville. At
the samo moment tho Germans deliv
ered a very violent attack against
Hill No. 626. An entire division took
part ln this maneuver. They were
successful in taking possession of this
hill in spite of tho heavy losses In
flicted upon them by tho fire of our
artillery and our machine guns.
"We are possession of the village
of Bethiucourt and the groves east
of the wood des Corbeaux and the
wood, do Cumleres, and the heights of
Cote de L'Ole.
"Artillery fighting continued active
ly last night to the east of the Meuse
in tho vicinity of Bras and Hardemont
ns well as in the Woevre, in the sector
of Fresnes and in tho villages located
in tho 'foothills."
Berlin, March 7. Tho war office
announced today that the village of
Fresnes, ln the Woevre, southeast of
Verdun, was captured this morning by
Germans.
Tho text of the statement follows:
"Small British detachments which
penetrated yesterday our trench
northeast of Verneuules were driven
out with bayonets after strong artil
lery preparations.
"In tho Champagne our position
east ot Maisons-de-Champagne which
the French occupied February 11 was
recaptured in a surprise attack. Two
officers and 150 men were taken pris
oners. "Following up the effect of import
ant mining operations in the Argonne
we pushed our positions northeast of
LaChalade, a little forward.
"In the Mouse district the artillery
fire on the western bank of the rivor
again became more lively. East of
the river it was maintained at medi
um violence. Apart from engagements
of reconnolterlng parties, no hand to
hand fighting with the enemy occur
red. "In tho Woevre district the village
of Fresnes was captured by storm
early this morning. The French are
still holding their own in a few houses
on the western boundary of the vil
lage. They lost more than 300 prison-
ore
Cost of tlvlng
Washington, March 7. Tho cost of
living in Constantinople has increased
185 per cent since tho beginning of
tho war according to confidential
advices to the State department.
Constantinople, March 7, via Lon
don 1 P m. The following statement
was issued today by the Turkish army
headquarters:
"Tho situation in all the war thea
ters is unchanged."
Increase of Navy.
London, March 7, 4:27 p. m. A. J.
Balfour, first lord of the admiralty,
stated in the house of commons today
that the tonnage of the British navy
should have been increased by one
million since the outbreak of the war,
while tho strength of the air division
of the navy had grown ten fold.
Review of War Situation.
The attack on Verdun has shifted to
the west and 'the Germans are now
pounding their way toward the fort-
l
ress beyond the Meuse advancing H
along the railroad that parallels tho
westerly bank. M
Last night the crown prince's troops
assaulted and took the town of For- M
ges, nine miles northwest of Verdun,
but were prevented by tho French IH
from debouching against the Cote de M
L'Ole, a height about a mile to the M
south. M
Today cornea the admission from ' -JH
Paris that the Germans, after a violent 7 H
bombardment, succeeded in forcing vk
their way through Forges and along H
the railway in the vicinity of Regne- M
ville, a village a mile and a half south- M
Simultaneously an entire division H
violently attacked and captured Hill H
No. 625 seuthwest of Regneville. H
Heavy losses were sustained by tho H
G-ermans in taking this position, Paris H
declares. H
French lines further west have held
and they are in possession of Bethin-
court and nearby territory and still M
occupy Cote de L'Oie. M
There Is still notable artillery activ- M
ity along the Immediate -front of Ver- H
dun, east of the Meuse as well as in M
the Woevre district southeast of tho M
fortress. H
CROWDS RUSH TO I
THE HOUSE FIGHT I
Men, Women and Children H
Arrive Long Before Doors H
Are Opened Combat H
in the Air. H
Washington, March 7. Prospects of M
a sensational debate attracted a re- JM
corded crowd to the house side of M
the capitol long before the doors M
openend. Men, women and chil- M
dren came ready for a long stay. M
Lunch boxes, milk bottles, opera glass- H
es and books formed the principal M
part of their equipment. When the M
public galleries were thrown open H
there was a rush and the galleries H
were filled within five minutes. H
The spirit of combat seemed to be H
in the air. Two negro barbers in IH
the house barber shop wound up an H
argument by throwing toilet water jH
bottles at each other. Both had to M
be locked up. H
Promptly at 11 o'clock tho house as M
sembled for the all day fight of tho M
administration forces to kill the Mc- jH
Lemore resolution to warn Americans H
off armed ships of the European bel- jH
ligorents. Speaker Clark was in the jH
chair and Acting Chairman Pou of tho H
ruins fiommlt'na -cg-c. ta Uljg seat ready H
to submit the special rule under H
which the debate will proceed. VM
As soon as the journal had been H
read Mr. Pou offered the privileged H
resolution containing the special rulo. H
Mr. Pou asked unanimous consent JH
for ninety minuter, debate ou the rule. H
There -vvas no objection and the de- IH
bate began. IH
Pou Opens Fight H
Mr. Pou took the floor to open the H
H
The first outburst of applause from H
the house floor camo at the outset H
of Mr. Pou's speech when he said: H
Denounces Infamous Lie. H
"All the imps of hell never devised jH
a more infamous lie than tho declara- H
tlon that has been made that Presl- H
dent Wilson wants war." H
Representative Campbell of Kansas. H
Republican member of the rules com- H
mlttee, announced when Mr. Pou con- H
eluded that if tho motion to close de- H
bate on the rule were defeated he H
would offer a substitute for the Mc- jH
Lemore resolution whioh would be a, jH
direct warning to Americans to keep, H
off armed ships. J H
