bmbBbMMWMBBbwmmwbbbbbWbbbb1
Journal ' ' rj X al
I
j '...,..,... I, i - i ' 1
j f WE HAVE RECORDS TO SHOW Br ,1r'' tM ' ' tf V 'If l , jf fi "I """ '" ! ' 'V T " f
I ,a ""ANYTH'N WHICH u"Ik vJJMH V4llUVlv!uL swrvvooTui?2 I I
1 .EIGHT PAQE8 LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH TUESDAY MARCH 7 1916 " " " R '
' FOURTEENTH YEAR & 'fli
V QUARTERLY CONFERENCE
I WELL ATTENDED SUNDAY
f IN STAKE TABERNACLE
MB
I Apostle Whitney and Elder Andrew
I Jensen were the visiting Speakers.
I Pres. Ballif reports harmony in the
I stake presidency. Quinney goes
I to Europe.
I The Cache stake quarterly confer-
I cnce convened on Sunday in ho
stake Tabernacle with sessions at 10
I a. m. 2 p. m. and 7 p. m. At each
I session of the conference the large
B tabernacle was filled to its capacity.
I Apostle O. F. Whitney and Andrew
I Jensen, church historian, had been
I advertised as tho visiting speakers,
I hut Apostlo Whitney did not put in
I his appearance until the afternoon
I session. At the morning meeting,
I however, the time was well taken up
B by local speakers.
Bishop N. W. Merkley of tho Sc
I cond ward gave a report of the con
I dltion of his ward stating that thero
are 1135 persons in the Second ward.
Bishop John H. Kemp of North
B Logan stated in his report that ho
B had 45 per cent of the total enroll
BJ ment in attendance at his priesthood
BJ meetings.
BJ A. E. Bowen, stake superintendent
Bj of Sunday Schools gave a short talk
H on the efficiency of tho - Sunday
School work in Cache stake.
A Dr. B. Q. Peterson, president-
-fc elect of the Agricultural College,
fVr gave an interesting discourse on ob-
B ligation of one to this great orgahlz-f
atlon to which wo belong. Ho spoko
I of tho church as a great educational
I factor and stated that ho was not a
worshiper of intellectuality, stating
B that there is something broader and
B greater than pure Intellect. Follow-
B Ing Dr. Peterson's short talk, Androw
B Jensen spoke interestingly of tho
rights of every man to have a first-
B class passage through llfo and that it
B we do not get it, it Is usually our own
B fault. Elder Jensen attributed the
H main reason for persons not going
H through life on firs tj class passage to
the fact that they break the laws of
H the Word of Wisdom such as using
BJ tobacco, tampering with Btrong drink
BJ and otherwise being immoral.
AFTERNOON 8ESSI0N.
BJ The afternoon session was callnd
B to ordor at 2 P, M., by President S.
B F. Ballif. Prayer was offered by
B Orson Smith and tho choir under the .
fl direction of chorister S. B. Mltton
I sang two selections. President Bal-
I llf was tho first speaker. At tho be-
ginning of his romarks ho invoked
H God's choicest blcsslngu upon himself
P in ordor that he might mako a correct
report of tho Cacho Stako over which
he presides. He reported a united
stake presidency which is worked
harmoniously with High Counsol for
good of the people of this staket Ho
excused tho nbsenco from tho confer
ence of President Quinney from tho
fact that President Quinney had been
called to go to Europo and that tho
railing had been sanctioned by tho
Presldont of tho church. Ho asked
tho people to extend to President
Qulnnoy their faith and prayers In
order that ho might go In peaco and
return in safety. President Ballif re
ferred to tho Tabcrnaclo as a build
ing of tho people, erected by tho plo
I neers of this valley, but recently re-
I modeled to mako It comfortablo and
I while there had'boen an oxpondlluro
it of $22,000.00 to modornljo tho build-
ring, every dollar had boon Bpqnt with
the greatest of caro. Tho Hborallty
of tho people of the stako In contri
buting to this worthy causo was high
ly complimented by tho Stako Presid
ent. An appeal to tho Elders to got
l tho spirit of their calling was mado
by President Ballif. Ho said that his
heart grieved whon ho looked over
tho work of tho young Elders, and
said that It was tho duty of tho presi
dent of ovory quorum to become a
missionary with the Elders in hlJ
quorum. Ho also referred to tho fact
that there Is too much of a tendency
of Sabbath breaking' and he denounc
ed tho practlco of business houses In
Logan remaining open on the Sabbath
day.
Walter M. Everton, stako clork, fol
lowed President Ballif In tho present
I atlon of tho names of tho general
authorities of tho church.
Dr. Georgo Thomas was released
as stako superintendent of Sunday
Schools together with his aids and
Attorney A. E. Bowen was sustain
ed in tho vacancy, with F. A. Hinck
ley and Hay West as his assistants.
Mrs. Mamie Stark In a vocal solo
charmed the audience with her beau
tiful mezzo soprano volco.
Elder Orson F. Whitney then took
tho stand. He gavo an interesting
discussion on why tho saints assem
ble. He did not agree with ono of
tho speakers who had once said that
if wo have a good speaker wo havo
a good meeting, and on tho contrary
if wo havo a poor speaker wo have
a splendid discipline for patience. El
der Vhttnoy said that, itAwas , his
opinion that "it maffdoTfllTference
whether we havo a good or poor
speaker, wo should assemble togeth
er for tho renewing of our spirits, In
other words to feed our spirits, as it
Is Just as necessary that the spirit
bo fed as It Is that the body bn fed.
Ha said that the spirit comes from
heaven and needs heavenly or spirit
ual food while tho body comes out of
tho earth and, tho food that tho body
takes comes from tho earth. It is
therefore the spirit of God that
makes tho meeting and not the speak
er. Elder Whitney referred to a book
that is about to bo published In New
York City by a very able writer. Tho
text of the book Is to be called The
Real Mormonlsm. It takes up the
question of Mormonlsm in a scientif
ic way. Elder Whitney had the oc
casion to discuss the merits of the
book with tho writer recently, who
stated that Mormonlsm has a great
deal in it and wero It not for tho
fact that Mormonlsm is usually pre
sented by persons who aro crudoly
Informed as to Its real morlts, it
would bo destined to get Into tho
homes of learned and scholarly raon
of tho world. In other words If "wo
were to send scholars into tho world
to preach Mormonlsm wo would bo
suro to got a hearing. To this Flder
Whitney disagreed. Ho said that wo
wero only able to get tho real Mor'
monism through tho spirit of God
which comes to tho earnest seeker af
ter truth and it is only through this
samo spirit that tho souls of mon
will bo saved.
Mrs. Stark and A. J. Hanson
sang a duet.
It must bo stated that during tho
conferenco tho choir furnished vory
excellent music. Professor Mltton
and his llttlo band of slngors, to
gothor with tho organist, aro to be
congratulated on tho splendid music
furnished at tho threo meetings of
conferenco on Sunday.
To Remove Stains.
Almost every housewlfo has had to
spend a groat dent of tlmo in scour
ing and cleaning tho kitchen sink. Ono
housowlfo has usod tho various clean
sers and also kcrosono, but was novor
nblo to keop It entlroly whlto until
one day sho used tho half of a lemon
on dralnboards and tablo. It was found
it romovod ovory stain.
j '
BBBBBBBM
PBBBBBBBBB
BBBflBBBbr SflBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBl
BBBhbflBBBflBBBf
BBB
JOSEPH ODELL
Joseph Odell Turns Over
Keys and Joins Salesmen
At The Implement House
When Joseph Odell, poitmastor and
public official, closed the door of his
offlco last night, he handed the keys
of the office to his successor, and
walked out from the building a priv
ate citizen. Mr. Odell took chargo of
tho Logan post offlco on March 1,
1904, and up to last evonlnp has
served Logan City for twelvo. years
and six days.
Somo idea as to how tho office Ins
grown during his administration can
be 'gleaned from tho following:
- i-In190i, there wero two carrioreu
Now thero aro seven carriers. In
1904 thero wero threo clerks. Now
thero aro flvo clerks. Heccipts of tho
offlco for tho fiscal year ending
March, 1904, amounted to $12,054.21,
and tho receipts for tho present fiscal
year to dato (estimating tho month
of March same as last March) aro
$37,500. Leaving out tho odd hun
dreds tho present receipts of the of
flco aro $25,000 more per annum than
In 1904 when Mr. Odell took charge
of tho office That Is to say tho re
ceipts In 1904 In round numbers were
$12,000 and in 1916, $37,000, a gain of
$25,000 or, over 300 per cent gain.
Theso figures will also in a measure,
furnish us an lijdox to Logan's
growth and all good citizens will join
in the hopo that tho next twelve years
will record such a satisfactory Increase.
BLOSSOMS A
SIGN OF AN
EARLY SPRING
Ola Larson tho flower man, has not
been nsleop during tho winter months
but has been making preparations
for an early spring. A visit at his
nursory on Third South stroet gives
ono tho impression that spring is
almost hero. Ho has numerous beds
of potted plants in blossom and ivro
ready for commercial purposes
Many of his plants aro roady for
transplanting from tho beds Into pots,
Included In tho variety are hyaclnth3,
tulips, narcissus, and geraniums.
Mr. Larson says that thero never
was n, tlmo when ho had moro Wo'?
soms than the present tlmo. Along
with tho rest of his nursery stock
aro many largo and beautiful ferns
and hanging plants. 'His cut flowors
aro most beautiful this tlmo of tho
year and when It comes to funeral de
signs ho has mado a solectlon and
stocked up In a way that would do
credit to a nursery of far moro pro
portions than Ills, To mako tho house
moro beautiful, Mr. Larson has ar
ranged a special salo of all tho bios-'
somed flowers for next week. I
r
To-, be a public official is 0110 thing,
and.' to servo tho peoplo with satis
faction la another, and The Republi
can is gladto record the thought that
no public official in tho history of
Logan, Cache county, or tho State of
Utah, ever served with more genulno
satisfaction than has Joseph Odell,
Login's retiring postmaster. Careful,
consistent, always obliging, Mb geni
al faco has, save but a very fow days
whoa ho has been on vacations under
department regulations, been seen
at- UHTvarlouB' widows of tho post of
floe transacting tho business of tho
Office, nnd florvlng tho peoplo of tho
community. His administration of
tho affairs of tho post office Is anoth
er wholcsomo oxamplo of Republican
efficiency and servlco and ho leaves
the offico with, tho good will of all
tho peoplo whom he has served with
out favor. In private life ho can look
back with Joy and prldo upon his of
ficial service, for ho gavo to it tho
best ho had, and whon assailed by
the petty politician and thoso eaqer
to accomplish his retirement before
the expiration of ills term, his spot
less record and thorough manage
ment of tho affairs of tho offico read
ily convinced an adverse administra
tion that his accusers wero utterly
unworthy of notice and that he was
entitled to and. morltcd tho good will
(Continued on Pago Eight)
ENVIABLE
INSURANCE
RECORDS MADE
J. P. Baldwin, traveling Hold rep
resentative of tho Business Men's Ac.
cldcnt Association of Kansas City,
who has been working In Logan for
tho past threo weeks, has Just been
advised by his company that ho took
first prlzo In his class for business
Issued during tho month of February
for his company. This entitles Mr.
Baldwin to a prlzo of $40 In cash.
Mr. Baldwin turned into his company
during tho month of February, a to
tal of 125 applications for accident
Insurance
In making this onvlablo record Mr.
Baldwin does not take all tho credit.
Ho says that ho Iibb hud somo vory
ablo nsslstanco from Walter M
Jones, who will bo local representa
tive for this company. Both these
gentlemen havo been hustling dur
ing tho month nnd this record showa
what a llttlo extra effort will do.
9 mm
Plant That Coughs.
In Africa a Fronch botanist has dis
covered ai plant that literally coughs to
clear Its leaf pores of dust.
SECURING THE
COSTUMES FOR
VAUDEVILLE
Yesterday Mr (1. 11. Alexander,
director of tho colored minstrel show
of tho Boosters Vnudcvlllo went to
Salt Lnko city to secure somo cos
tumes. Dally rehearsals nro being
held bo that by March 15 ovory part
will be well prepared.
In tho olio, n cotton picking sceno
will bo tho setting This wll bo
mado as real us possible. Tho music
is nil new nnd popular and the best
talent In tho city Is taking part. Iho
lineup Is as follows: Tenors: James
McMurrln, Frank Dough Jr., Frank
Wooloy, and Victor ChrlBtenHen; sec
ond tenors: Lawrenco Bailey, C. W.
Hansen, Knrl Farnsworth, W. Ander
son; flmt baso, O. W. Hanson, Arth
ur Olson, Storm McDonald; second
bnse, E. B. Parkinson, Charles O.
Peterson, W. A. Ross, and Mr. Eg
bert. Messrs Hocpner and Duffy aro
tho end men. They havo playod on
tho Orpheum and Pantagos circuit
and aro excellent step dancers.
Tho comedy ontltlcd Stuffing, un
der tho direction of Prof. Arnold, is
a good ono. Those taking part aro
Messrs Jos. J. Blthell, Banty Green,
Miss Margaret Wilkinson nnd
Mrs. A. Atkinson t
A skit under the direction of
Messrs Lowis Edwnrds and E. B.
Parkinson is being kept very secret
About all that can be ascertained Is
as follows: "Canned Vaudevlllo," In
four spasms. Individual packages our
specialty, accompanied by a chorus
of beautiful girls and male voIccb.
Other specialties will tako piace
between acts.
March 15 at 2 p. m. a matlneo will
bo given to all tho school children.
ANOTHER CARD
IS ARRANGED
1
Two boxing contests of ten round3
each, will be tho offer pf tho Logan
Athletic Club on March 14. Tho
main event will bo a ten round go
between Charles Mldklff and Kid
Davis of Ogden, two of tho best
welter weights In tho state.
Mldklff haB fought and beaten prac
tically all of tho boys at his wolght
that havo come to Utah in tho past
three yeara and has only met with
ono set back and thut was with K.
O. Brown who was supposd to go
Into the ring at 145 pounds, and went
in weighing over 1C0 pounds.
Kid Davis has been coming to
the front rapidly. Lately ho has re
cently met and dofeated Mlckoy
O'Brien of California; Frenchoy Boyd
of Salt Lake City; Kid Slater also or
Salt Lako and boxed a draw with
Tom Crawford.
Mldklff and Davis will both weigh
In at 142 pounds rlngsldo tho winner
will meet Tom Crawford horo for tho
welter wolght championship of tho
stato Instead of tho regular short
preliminaries.
Von Hickman has been matched
with Alex Lees a 135 pound boy of
Bolso who has been boxing thero and
has dono somo good work. This will
also bo for ten rounds.
Tho Logan Athlotlo Club rooms
havo been changed to tho hall
ovor Wio Golden Rulo storo whoro
thero will bo plenty of room for nil
and as this will bo on tho second
floor and tho floor Is being strength
ened plenty of heavy beams being
put under the floor. It wilt he much
safer than tho former place.
Articles of Incorporation of tho Mo
tor Sales Coj, havo been filed with
tho county clork. It la a local corpor.
atlon and Is capitalized at $25,000,
shares being of tho valuo of $100
each. Tho Incorporators aro H, E
Hatch, who Is president of tho com
pany; Asa Bullon who Is vlco presi
dent; Bryant Bullon, who Is treasur
er; J. D. Hatch, who Is secretary,
and G. B. Alexnndor and 21. S.
Hatch who aro directors.
LIFE SKETCH I I
OF LABORS OF I J
MRS. ROBINSON , , I
Richmond, Mnrch C.-Sellna Ellen ' l'H
Griffin Robinson, oldest daughter of ' t ',B
Thomus and Amanda Perkins Grlllln BJ
was born In Salt Lnko City, July 2fi, I ,M
1857. In 1800 sho moved with her fll
parents to Richmond, Utah, whero I 'H
sho has since resided. Sho wn8 mar- J 'Bl
ried to Franklin G. Robinson, Febru- B
ary 1, 1873, nlno children being bora BJ
to thorn all of whom aro living. Tho M
children aro Frank G., Thomas Arn- ' BJ
old, Mrs. Anna R. Sharp, Nell, Earl, 1 H
Mrs. Lcono Mather, Julian Leroy, j H
Verna nnd Mai Ian, tho youngest chli'd j, M
being 21 years old tho day of his BJ
mothor's funeral. Mtb. Robinson's ', M
husband died, six years ago. !'' flj
Her maternal ancestors wero ) jjBl
among tho early settlers of America BJ
having sailed in tho ship Mayflower, k . M
and taking a prominent part in the B
Revolutionary War, also tho war of j " B
1812. Her father, Thomas Griffin j , jBJ
Joined tho Mormon Church in BIrm- 'l' ' ' Bl
Ingham, England, and was a.ploneor jj B
of Utah, having arrived in 1854, t'rav- ' flj
cling across tho plains by ox team. ' ' BJ
Mrs. Robinson was a truo mother, I, BJ
a loving, and devoted wife, a kind ! jB
and sympathetic neighbor, and a ' H
faithful Lattorday Saint, having, boon j BJ
treasurer of tho Richmond Relief ' ' BJ
Society for over seventeen years. I m .flj
Sho was a power of strength among- ' BJ
her friends and associates and to 1 H
know her was to love her. ") nflfl
Sho bad been in poor health fora j j Jfll
number of years, suffering from asth- ' fjH
ma and Brlght's disease. She waa I' fll
taken ,to the L. D. S. hospital 111 ' ,'BJ
Salt Lako City tor treatment, Decern- ' 'TVfBJ
bor 27, 1915, whoro buo romalncd for 1 , jjIBj
seven weeks, Her condition becoming ' "SiBj
moro serious, sho was removed to iBBj
tho homo of hor daughter Mrs, Anna 'BBI
Sharp, wbtefi- she passed peacefully j .iflH
away, two weeks later, Februnry 29, i BHJ
1916 surrounded by all of her'chll- ''SI
drcn whom sho know until tho last, l!Hl
Mrs. Robinson nlso leaves threo flj
brothers and two slaters, Mrs. JP. 1 BBJ
Griffin of Logan; Uto EJ( and Orrin . 'BJ
Griffin and Mrs. William H. Olsten, , "i
and Mrs. J. I. Sbopard of Rich- ' 'BBJ
mond. ?BBJ
Funorni services wero held in the f BBl
Richmond Tabcrnaclo, March 3, 1916, (i!BB1
which wero largely attended, many ifl'J
coming from surrounding towns. Tho j 1 1 ;BBJ
speakers wero Patriarch W. L, Skid- I '' SHI
moro, Magglo T. Merdll, James W. '1 H
Funk and Bishop T, H. Merrill of '
Richmond, and Elder James Blako of ffl'J
Sugar City, Idaho. "'"' j fAVJ
Mrs. Anna V. Merrill and Elmer ' lJH
Stoddard 'sang, Somo Sweet Day. 'ffl'B
Mrs, Fannlo Thomas Sang, 'Face 'to J IflBB
Face. Many beautiful flowers wero .( BBBBBJ
given by loving relatives and trlonds. I fiBBS
Interment was in the city cemetery. itfiBBB
Miss Inez Maughan entertained for '''k
tho faculty members of tho High i iH
flchool and a few of her friends at flfl
tho homo of Mrs. Elna Merrill on B
Tuesday evening. Tho tlmo was l9Bl
spent In games music, and a poclal , JIhI
chat was enjoyed. Dainty refresh- ' Tfl'J
ments wero served to about twenty iiBl
guests. AssoBtlng tho hostess serving , ThBJ
wero Misses Elvora Johnson and Miss . SH
Clarlnda Merrill. Tho following j jBl
guests wero present Mr, nnd Mrs. I ' 'fll
Henry Plant, Mr. and Mrs. J, H. fl rjBjB
Pondleton, Mr. nnd Mrs. Ed. Webb, rB
Mr. and Mrs. Ezra Johnson, Mr. U. ' t'!BJ
Hendricks, Mr. nnd Mrs. W. Z. ''(MB
Harris, Miss Metha Chrlstofforson, jjj; "JBh
Mr. Roscoo Merrill, Miss Clara Monk, H - IB
Mr, Ivan Rarnott, Miss Grace Andcr- f BB
Bon, Mr. C. II. Anderson, Miss Jes- j tJfll
slo Hendricks, Miss Anna Pondleton, I'-tdflH
Miss Kathcrlno Anderson, Miss Joco- 5 IflF
phlno Wnllaco, Miss Inez Maughan, , Bjli
Mr. C. I. Stoddard, Mr. Nathan ' '"
Morrill and Mr. J. II. Peterson of I'f'Mv
Smlthfield. j Mr
Tho North Cacho High School1 team 'tjm'i
playeu tho last league gaiao of tho ! 'J
season at Hyrum with tho South f'l B
Cncho team Friday ovenlng. About r B,
two hundred peoplo accompanied tho ; BW
team to Hyrum. Tho gamo was ono .' 'jfli
of tho best, both teams worked moro lKS
than hard for tho honors. Tho first li'lt
half ended with tho scoro at 10 to (HB
10 Tho boya played vory hard -im. lrS
tho last half, but it seemed that the ; V
timo was too short and tho North '' By
(Continued on Pago Eight) ' 1, B' -
MMAN FROM HOME SLIifi The amatic Treat of the Year
iiihh mum ituifiL Tonight and Wed. Night tickets - on sale-at morrelus - ssc, soc, tBc W
r jBZBBk 1
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
