THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX-NO. 302.
UAKKE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, MAHCII 7, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
HARD-PRESSED
FRENCH HELPED
BY BRITISH
Australian .ege Brigade
Was Dispatched to the De
fense of Verdun as Ger
mans Continue Their En
veloping Movement South
west of the Fortress
our adversary out of our trench nml we
occupy one aide of the crater. Our ar
tillery ha Ix-en very active in the whole
of thin sector.
"Went of the Mouse after a violent
bombardment which lasted tho whole
morning on tho front between Bet hill
court and the Meusc, the German
launched a strong attack against the
rorges Munition on our b chanced line.
In the course of a very lively struggle
they succeeded In taking possession of
tho village Several attempts to debouch
on Cot.i Do L'Oio were 'checked by our
counter-attacks which drovo the enemy
back into Forges.
"East of tho Mouse there has been
an intermittent artillery action.
"Jn the Woe v re an intense bombard
ment has occurred in the region of
Fresnes, but was not followed by any
infantry attack. West of Pontamousson
our artillery caused heavy damage to the
German organization in the Hois Du
Jury."
PARIS ADMITS LOSS
OF NEW POSITIONS
GERMAN WARSHIPS
HAVE LEFT KIEL
Twenty Dreadnoughts Left the German
Base, According to Information
Allowed to Pass by
British Censor.
London, March 5, via London, delayed,
Fallen Before theParon Twenty German dreadnought?
IIihvp left. Kiel nctordmn- to information
Determined Assaults O f received here to-day.
Forges and Hill No. 265, to
Southwest of Regneville,
Have
U. S. CONSUL
AMONG SAVED
Charles Tredek Was on
Board the Ill-Fated Steam
er Principe De Asturias
ALMOST 500 LOST
OFF BRAZIL COAST
Steamer Remained Afloat
Only a Short Time After
Striking a Rock
the Invaders, but French
Stop Another Movement
The attack on Verdun has shifted to
the west and the Germans now are en
gaged in pounding their way toward a
fortress from beyond the Meuse, advanc
ing along a railroad that parallels the
westerly bank. Last night the crown
prince's troops assaulted and took the
The foregoing dispatch was held up by
the Ilritish censor for two days. Another
dispatch, filed in London early to-day,
said a fleet of 25 German warships was
seen Monday cruising in the North sea.
This message was received in London
from lieland, North Holland. It was
added that the vessels' approached from
the northeast and disappeared north
ward.
GERMANY IS IN EARNEST
Rio Janeiro, March 7. According to
the latest information, the number of
leathg on the Spanish steamship Prin
cipe Ve Asturias, which struck a rocK
and sank off Santos Sunday, has reached
almost COt). Among those saved was the
new American consul to Santos, Charles
Tredek. More than GOO passengers were
aboard the ship.
The steamer remained afloat only a
short time after striking t lie shoal, and
there was little chance for the escape
of passengers and crew to the boats.
Steamers went out to aid in the rescue
work and 143 of the passengers and
crew were landed at Santos.
Santos. Brazil, March 7. The Spanish
steamer Principe de Austrias has been
sunk by striking a rock. She went to
the bottom in five minutes. Eighty-six
members of the crew and .'0 passengers
have been brought to Santos. The sur
vivors were brought in by the French
town of Forges, nine miles southwest of Reported Col. E. M. House to President
Verdun, but were prevented by the Wilson,
French from debauching against cote ue Washington, D. G, March 7
Lots, a height which lies a mile to the
south.
To-day comes the admission from Par
is that the Germans, after a violent bom
bardment, had succeeded in forcing their to determine the next move of the United
way through Forges and along the rail- states jn the negotiations with the cen
road In the vicinity of Regneville village, tral European powers. According to th
a mile and one-half to the southeast, present plans, diplomatic negotiations on
Simultaneously an entire division vio- the subject are to follow a settlement of
lently attacked and captured hill No. 265, the controversy in Congress.
southwest of Reeneville. Heavy losses Col. E. M. House, who returned from
..;a w w r,me,. i t, v. Europe Sunday, is understood to have
' . , told the president and Secretary Lansing
incr this nosition. Paris declares. u..i n... .1
o Mr 1 ijewteniiiv limb me lu-inimi jwvn 1010-10,
The first connrmation of the reports believed itself justified in its new subma
that the British were assisting the French nne policy and was not binning.
v... tnA. ) Col. House is believed to have strength
lened the view already held by both the
a statement tnat me aminuaa sirp p,.,,,,,,, nJ (ri,tlll7 jjji tllat th (enky jn the jiji,,,,, lalh in 4 ri)om j
ongaae is ngniing mere, crmsn uijj sunmarine negotiations mum oe nanoiea
guns are said to have been doing great with greatest care if a break with Ger
.. many is to be avoided, although he re-
REPUBLICANS GAIN
TWO MAINE CITIES
Elected Seven Mayon and Eight City
Tickets in the Tea Municipalities
i i;hat Voted Yesterday.
Portland, Me., March 7- Republicans
elected their candidates for mayoralty
humus hi tie veil and for city officials in
eight of the ten Maine cities in which
elections were held yesterday, a net gain
of two city governments over last year.
Thev retained control of municipal af
fairs at llallowell, where they eli-cted
John M. Robinson over Mayor Samuel (i
Otis, but lost out at Rockland, where
Frank C. Flint was chosen mayor with a
Democratic city government.
The closest contest was at Waterville,
in which eity Col. Frederick E. Boothby,
mayor of Portland for several years, was
deeiired elected mayor on the face of
the returns by two votes over lira A.
Meader, a Denim-rat. An examination of
the ballots will be made.
In re-electing Mayor Charles E. West,
South Portland Republicans gave him a
Republican city government in place of
one of Democratic complexion. Hath
Democrats retained Mayor John A. Small
in office, but lost their majority in the
board of adlermen and common council.
The mayors elected and complexion of
the municipal governments are as fol
lows: t City
City. Mayor. Govt.
Auburn. Henry R. Porter, R R
Hath, John A. Small, I)....' R
Eastport, Fred T. Eldridge, R R
Ellsworth, Alexander C. Hagerthy, R. R
llallowell. John M. Robinson, II".... R
Lewiston, Louis J. Brann, D 1)
Rockland, Frank C. Flint, D D
Saco. James H. Henderson, R R
South Portland, Charles E. West, R . R
Waterville, Col. Frederic E.Boothby.R R
WILSON FORCES
WIN IN HOUSE
Vote of 256 to 160 Against
Amending of Resolution
WARNING AMERICANS
OFF ARMED SHIPS
That Done, the House Set
tled Down to Debate
on Resolution
Re-elected.
"Present mayor defeated.
YOUNG MAN SERIOUSLY HURT.
-With the
I....1 lfIT
r- J....1 fl""
i HppciiuHcH iu werumiiy inTiHiaiiim ' Princine d
the new submarine campaign against steamer was wrecked Sundav off Sebas-
I armed merchant shins of her enemies be-1 tiano Point, the western extremity of
fore it tho administration is nrenarimr i the island of that name near the entrance
10 nanios uay. -
1
SHEET OF FLAME
STRUCK MEN
Most of Casualties Among Mexicans and
Their Countrymen Are
Enraged.
El Paso, Texas, March 7. Eighteen are
dead and a number are not expected to
live as the result of an explosion yes-
Romeo Scampini Was Drawn into Ma
chine by Wire Rope.
steamer Vig. A Spanish steamship is i). s,.-mi,;,,i aA irt mn of Mr
standing by. and Mrg Angelo Scampini of Borlin
London, March 7. A Lloyds dispatch , gtrctt( B1IS,tained very serious injuries in
from Santos says that 338 passengers j an a(...,(.nt at the m-anite manufacturing
Washington, D. C, March 7. In the
first test in the House to-day on the
question of warning Americans off armed
ships of belligerents, the administration
forces won, 25(1 to 100. The opportunity
for amending the McLemore resolution
wag removed and the House turned to a
debate on the resolution itself, with ev
ery indication that it would be tablad
as President Wilson desires as a demon
stration to foreign nations that dissen
sion against his foreign policy does not
represent a majority of Congress.
TO ESCAPE ASYLUM,
JUMPED TO DEATH
members of the crew .on tho j llallt of t0molli i. Co. in Bianch'i place
le Asturias arc missing. The , thig morn;ng, when his foot became
GERMANS NOW HOLD
I ported that Germany had no desire for
war with the United States, lie dis
cussed the issue frankly with Herr von
Jagow. the German foreign minister, and
FRESNES VILLAGE 1 von Bethmann-irolwegg, the imperial
cnanceuor.
Berlin War Office Announced Capture of thp colon(;, ,n eonf(,rpnC(witll pr(,si,)(.nt
the Position in the Woevre
District.
Berlin, March 7. The war office an
nounced to-day that the village of Fres
nes in Woevre, southeast of Verdun,
was captured this morning by the Ger
mans.
ITALIAN RAID
VERY DESTRUCTIVE
Aeroplane Attack on Austrian City of
Laibach is Said to Have Resulted
in Death or Wounding of
800 Soldiers.
Geneva, March 7. Eight hundred Aus
trian soldiers in barracks were killed or
wounded in the raid by Italian aero
planes February 1! on the city of Lai
bach, according to" information received
here yesterday.
Two high officers of the staff of Arch
duke Eugene, eommander-in-chief of tho
Austrian forces operating against Italy,
are said to have lecn killed. One of ttie
Italian aeroplanes was destroyed.
Wilson, Secretary Lansing, Assistant Sec
retary Phillip and other government offi
cials. He plans to remain here until to
night. Some of the information that
he brought back is expected to be laid
before the cabinet.
The appendices of the German memo
randum arrived at the state department
yesterday. The Berlin foreign office
claims they offer conclusive evidence that
British merchantmen armed ostensibly
for defense purpose have been ordered to
use their armament offensively.
' caught in a wire rope attached to the
derrick drum -in the yard. Before he
could be released, his right leg was frac
tured above the thigh, nd it is feared
that a fracture occurred in the right arm
above the elbow. Dr. J. A. Wark was
summoned and the young man was hur
ried to the City hospital in the Perry &
Noonan ambulance. At the hospital
Scampini was placed on the operating
table at once, Dr. ark being assisted
in the operation by Dra. J.-W. Jackson
and W. E. I-azell.
This afteroon it was too early to 'de
termine just what the issue of the aeci
dent may be. Bruises and lacerations
were caused, but it is thought that no
permanent results of in untoward nature
will follow unless it develops that there
are internal injuries. Immediately after
the accident, work at the Comolli plant
was abandoned, and the men were told
not to return until to-morrow.
Young Scampini had an escape from
much graver injury that is regarded as
miraculous. He was employed as a der
rickman, and it was when he was guid
ing the movements of the big boom that
REFUSES USE OF HIS NAME.
Ijiibaoli is about 45 miles east of Go
mia and has a population of about 30,
V 000. It has been stated that it is the
headquarters of the Austrian army oper
ating against the Italians. An official
report of the raid given out in Rome said
that it was in retaliation for numerous
violations of international laws by the
Austria ns. It is added that the raiding
squadron dropped several dozens of gren
ades and Itomhs on the city. An Austri
an ollicial statement, reierring lo tne
same raid, said that it was "a lamentablo
failure."
Charles E. Hughes Again Reads Himself
Out of Contest.
Boston. March 7i A further refusal to
sanction the use of his name as a presi
dential candidate wag made by Justice
Charles E. Hughes in a letter to diaries
H. Brown, a former state senator from
Medford, made public last night.
"As I understand it, you desire to
pledge yourself as a delegate, and you
find it will be necessary to have the
acceptance of the candidate in whose
support the pledge is made," the justice
wrote. In answer I must adhere to the
position I have taken. As I have repeat
edly said, I am not a candidate in any
sense, and in view of my obligations as
a member of the supreme court, I cannot
permit the use of my name."
in the city jail. More than 40 prisoners
were in the room when the explosion oc
curred, and nearly all were seriously
burned.
A lighted match ignited vapor arising
from a mixture of gasolene, kerosene and
vinegar, in which the prisoners, mostly
Mexicans, were lieiniz bathed to prevent
the spread of disease. Sheets of flames 1 his foot became caught in a piece of wire
flashed through the east wing of the pris- j roping. Ilie movement of the cable
on and almost immediately the street! drew him onto the derrick drum, and
fronting the jail was filled with naked there he was held fast for a fraction
shrieking men, enveloped in fire. of a moment. Armando tomolli, son of
While an investigation positively to i toe senior member i me coparinersmp,
determine the cause of the explosion is in I as in the yard at the tune, and it was
progress, civil and military authorities ; part due to his quick wit that the
at Juarez, Mexico, across the river, are young man's life ,as saved. Seeing
searching for an unidentified Mexican, Scampini's predicament, he promptly or
who last night boarded a street car and dered the machinery stopped and rushed
shot the motorman, after a report had to ttlp young fellow's assistance. Scam
spread that 200 Mexicans had been P'" ws carried into the office, where
thrown into the jail in EI Paso and de- j "rst ministrations were brought by Dr.
liberatclv burned to death. This reiort. j "k. The dernckman bled profusely
unread o ranidlv and caused such irrenr. ! at tile Hospital attaches toiind It im
excitement in the Mexican town that ! POHsibIp to remove his clothing before
Washington, D. C, March 7. Prompt
ly at 11 o'clock the House assembled for
an all-day fight of the administration
forces to kill tho McLemore resolution
to warn Americans off armed ships of
European belligerents
was in the chair. As soon as the jour
nal was read, Acting Chairman Pou of
fered the privileged resolution containing
the special rule under which the debate
will proceed. Mr. Pou asked unanimou
consent for a 90-minutes' debate on the
rule, and there beinir no objections, h
took the floor and opened the fight.
The first outburst of applause from
the floor came at the outset of the Pou
speech, when he said: "All the imps o
hell never devised a more infamous lie
than the declaration that has been made
that President Wilson wants war."
Ernest W. L'Heureux of Middlebury Was
Being Treated at Burlington
Sanatorium and Wat to Bo
Taken to Waterbury
To-day.
Tliirlington March 7. Ernect W. L'lleu-
reux of Mniuiebury, in an nour oi no
spondency brought on by tho knowledge
that to-day ho would bo taken to Cue
state asylum for the insnno at Water
bury, jumped from tho third story win
dow of the Green Mountain sanatorium,
conducted by Dr. Thomas E. Hays, be
tween 11 o'clock and noon yesterday,
meeting almost instantaneous death. Mr.
L'Huereux had been mentally unbalanced
and was brought to the sanatorium from
Middlebury a little over a week. ago.
Yesterday, after being examined by at
tending physicians, he was told that it
would bo necessary for him to go to Wit-
erbury. He had been suffering extreme
mental anguish jot weeks.
.Mr. L Houreux Iiad sunereil from nerv
ousness for ' many months and had be
come a user of drugs which gave relief)
from severe headaches He realiwd his i
condition and, while he was insane, them ;
were times when his mind was normal
At these times he made efforts to con
trol himself and this also wore upou
him
STORM KEEPS
- DOWN VOTING
Vermont's Annual Town
Meetings Interfered with
by the Weather
MIGHT SEEM TC'aVOR
LOCAL 0r.0NISTS
Because of,.e Fact That
Voters in Country Districts
Would Be Kept from Polls
A March blizzard interfered seriouslr
with tho prospects of a record-breaking
vote in Vermont to-dav on the occasion
of the annual town meetings when refer-
emiiims on prohibition and the direct pri
mary, together with lesser matters, were
before the voters for consideration. The
snow began to fall late last night and it
continued to fall at intervals through
ir:. . 4.. ti-.A (i t, l oay, Keeping many lair-w eatlier vot-
sanatorium and be was allowed to walk '" at, ,,0"ie- M'-iiilly in the country
alKut the corridors, which action seemed ll1,r";t '" the distance to the polls
to give an outlet to lus angnisii. lie
jumped from nJ window which opened off
from a hall, elir of the roof of the ver
anda, and struck on the hard walk lend
ing from the front steps to the sidewalk.
i, if., I were long and the traveling- difficult.
juit in spite ot the weather handicap,
there were prospects that the vote of
1!I0;, when prohibition was voted out and
local option was voted in, would bo
There was a compound fracture of both V ' T v"te raRl l,,Pn was
legs but death was due to a fracture of , S-":U' ,or rat,1Pr; wa the total rote
the skull I counted, some of the towns, notably Col-
Mr LUeureux was born in this cit v ; p,'i'ter. having failed to get their votes
and was 53 years of age. He is survived 'n " tl,".e- Jhe margin of victory for
by bis mother, Mrs. D. C. H'Heureux of'0' !,tlon, ,n, "-as only 7'20;
Speaker Clark this city, and by four brothers, George i" l" ".v ' V"? I'ropneta, outside
" . .... lilt til fUl in ill in csv a Jif 41m w m no! v a ...
II., ot .New York, G. K. of Aickerson, v w..sc w. iamp.igiiB,
Kan., Charles W. of Albuquerque. Xew lmr low, to maK0 predictions as to
Mexico, And J. II. of this city. The fu- . V : 1 . ur Ul,"l'nn wnwrepiu
HOLDING FIRMLY
FOR 4-YEAR BILL
heavy military patrols had to be put
out to prevent outbreaks against Americans.
BIG WAGE INCREASE.
GERMANS CAPTURE VILLAGE.
Struggle,
Forges
Taken After Lively
Says French Report.
Psris, March 7. The following oili
cial statement was issued by the war
otbee last niht:
"In Champagne the (Jvrmans deliver!
an attark accompanied by jets of liquid
llame on our position between Mont Tetii
and Maimns in the Champagne On our
WHOLE FAMILY SLAIN.
Seven People Murdered Near Lawton,
Okl.
Lawton, Okla., March 7. Seven mem
bers of the family of Daniel O'Kane. a
farmer, were found murdered in their
home. 12 miles southeast of lawful yes
terday. O'Kane himself lay beside the
body of his father, probably fatally shot.
A nejrro hired nuin disootered the bod
ies. The murderer bad used a razor, a
hammer and a small ca I litre rifle. These
were found on the floor. Xearby was a
twsin of water crimsoned with blood
from the bands of the murderer.
Tboe killed were O'Kane's wife, an in
fant, four children ranpinp from four to
10 years of age, anil O'Kane's asred father.
Will Be Granted to the Bituminous Coal
Operators.
New York, March 7. Wage increases
that may annually approximate eight
million dollars or more in the soft coal
fields of western Pennsylvania, Ohio, In
diana and Illinois, were Bgreed on late
yesterday by the sub-committee of the
bituminous operators and miners from
those states who are negotiating a new
wape scale to go into effect April 1. The
action of the sub-committee will lie re
ported for ratification to the full joint
conference of operators and miners.
In the meantime, the session of the
joint sub-committee of anthracite miners
and operators, fixed for to-day, has been
deferred until Wednesday afternoon to
permit the miners to complete their ne
gotiations with the bituminous employers.
The action yesterday by the bitumi
nous sub-committee will have an impor
tant effect, it is said, on the wage con
tracts to be negotiated in central Penn
sylvania. West Virginia, Michigan. Iowa,
and Kentuckvbv the I'nited Mine Work-
the introduction of anesthesia.
HOTEL MUST PAY
FOR MONEY LOST
INGAMBLING
Robert H. Kemp Won Verdict of $6,110
in Suit Against Hotel Essex in Bos
ton He Claimed to Have
Lost By Fake Betting on
Horse Races.
Boston. March 6. A jury in superior
court to-day returned a verdict of ffrt.llO
against the proprietors of the Hotel Es
i sex in this city for money -which Koliert
H. Kemp ot Brockton claimed to have
lost by betting on fake horse races at
the hotel in November, 1913, and inter
est. Kemp slleged that he wns persuad
ed by a gang of swindlers who had set
up a pool room in the hotel to bet on
horse races.
Kemp brought suit against the hotel
corporation under a statute which makes
property holders liable for mouey lost in
letting on their premises if it is proved
that they had knowledge of what was
taking place. The hotel management
contended that, it had no knowledge of
Quincy Manufacturers Took Secret Eal
lot Last Night at Regular Monthly
Meeting South Ryegate
Has Settled.
Quincy, Mass., March 7. The Quincy
Granite Manufacturers' association, at
the regular monthly meeting last night
took a secret ballot on one ot the chief
points at issue with the cutters, that be
ing over the length of the proposed new
agreement. After the ballot it was an
nounced that the vote was almost unani
mous for a four-year bill, the same to
expire on March 1, 1920,
The cutters branch will hold a meet
ing to-day, at wnicn arrangements will
be made for drawing strike pay.
South Ryegate, March '7. An agree
ment has been reached in the granite in
dustry here for a four-year bill, to ex
pire in 1920, and $4 a day wages.
COMING TO SEE WILSON.
For Dry Cleaning.
In cleaning any fabric with gasoline
right the enemy stopped by our harrier r imilar fluid it in-tim-s happen
lie was not aide t.i M-t out from Iim i that a ring is lett around the garment in
trenches. To th- ft in the region of process of cleaning. To prevent urh a
Maisnn in the Champagne lie succeeded ring it t reo.Mnmen.led that bv adding
ers of America. Nearly 2N,ono men will I fc--"6
benefit by the increases in western Penn
sylvania, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois.
Aside from the general increase of
three cents a ton granted by the coal
companies, the miners in western Penn
sylvania won the mine run system of
paying wages, something the officers of
the union say they bae Dcen striving
to obtain for thirty years. The mine
run svstem add 2..1!t cents a ton to the
miners wages and gives them almut (
GERMAN CAVALRY
MOVING AT YPRES
Dutch Report That Important Movements
of Troops Have Been Noted Oppo
site British. Lines.
Ixmilon. March C Important move-
Vijla Reported to Be on Way to Wash
ington. El Paso, Texas, March 7. Francisco
Villa is within six miles of the I'nited
States border and is on the way to
Washington, where lie will seek an in
terview with President V ilson, accord
ing to a message received last night by
General Gabriel Gavira, commandant at
Juarez, who transmitted the report
through Andreas Garcia, Mexican consul
here, to Gen. John Pershing, commanding
L'itited States troops along the border.
General Gavira's advices stated th.it
Villa would seek to exonerate himself
of blame in connection with the Santa
Ysabel massacre, in which 18 foreigners
were killed last January, and would fur
ther endeavor to place before President
Wilson his position with reference to
the present situation in Mexico. The mes
sage said that Villa was camped a few
miles south of Columbus, N. M.
remains will be placed in the vault at
Lake lew cemetery. .
DEATH OF F. J. BR0WNSC0MBE.
neral will be held from the home of hii",mtlon ,n Vermont, l lie swing of the.
mother at 173 North avenue and the : vote was mere conjecture. I l.e adverse
o'clock Wednesday afternoon and the . wither conditions, serving to keep down
tne vote in the country districts, might
seem to militate to the advantage of the
local optionists. albeit there was, admit
tedly, strong local option sentiment in
nuiny of the smaller communities. The
weather certainly promised to be a.
strong ally for tiie direct primary.
In J?nrre the voting was comparatively
light during the early part of the day,
except in those wards where there wero
vigorous contests for alderman, notably
in the fourth and sixth. In the larger
wards, the second and third, the polling
of votes was slow. Up to early after
noon there was little to indicate the
trend of the vote on the mayoralty and
other city offices.
Former Superintendent of Montpelier
Schools Died in New York.
A telegram received in Montpelier to
day by John Bartlett from bis son, Wil
liam D. Bartlett, in New York City, stat
ed that Frederick J. Brownseombc, for
merly superintendent of the Montpelier
schools, died this morning in New York
after a week's illness with pneumonia.
Ijast fall Mr. Brownscombe was in an
automobile accident and since that time
his health had not been good.
Mr. Brownscombe was born in Ontario
in June, 1808, and he came to Montpelier
in 1904 as superintendent of the public
schools. He held that position until 1911.
During his stay there he was a popular
official and was greatly interested in
boys' activities, forming the school fife
and drum corps which was the second
largest school organization of the sort
in the I'nited States.
After leaving Montpelier in 1911 Mr.
Brownscombe went to Baltimore and re
mained with his brother for a time, after
which he was at the head of the schools
in Pan bury. Conn. Later he went to
VW York, being retained bv the Na
tional Suit & Cloak company to organize Orange
a school for the 1,000 employes of that
concern. It is thought that the brother
in Baltimore is the only near relative.
THE 1903. REFERENDUM.
Majority in Favor of Local Option Was
Only 729.
The 1903 referendum vote when 50-
year-old prohibition was voted out of
Vermont and local option was voted in
was, by counties, as follows:
Addison
Bennington
Chittenden
Essex ....
DEATH OF YOUNG WOMAN.
Miss Eda Gerbetti Died Last Evening
After Six Months' Illness.
Miss Eda Gerbetti passed away at her
home, 565 North Main street, last even-
ng at 7:40 o'clock. She had been in
failing health for six months, although it
Grand Isle
Iximoille .,
Orleans
Rutland
Windsor
Total 29.711
Yes. No.
. 2.101 2.0K9
. 2.013 1 .07.-1
. 1.204 3.1 IS
. 3.7fiS 1.87S
. 37S 479
. 2.749 1.83U
. 273 29!)
. 765 1.059
. l.fMiO 2,272
. 707 2.S24
. 5.471 2.72S
. 3.744 2.890
. 2.350 2.547
. 2.517 3,294
.29.711 28.9S2
NO CONTESTS IN MONTPELIER.
Only One Ticket for Municipal Offices
Was Voted For.
Monfpelier's municipal election to-day
u-tia an nvtt'miiolt- .,,,inf ofTuit tuu.mieii
as not until three weeks ago that her Wa'01llv 0'tl null,icipal ticket be-
lvea oy ner mowier. .Mr, r.iizuoewi i.ei-
bctti, two sisters. Misses Olga and Em
ma Gerbetti, and two brothers, Alfred
Gerbetti and Paul Gerbetti, both of thi
city. The deceased was born in Hallo
well, Me., Nov. lfi, 1892, and was there
fore approaching her 24th birthday. She
came to Barre Hi years ago and attended:,.
tne city scuoois. ror a iiiiut sue re
sided ill Massachusetts, but latterly she
had returned to this city to resume her
residence. Miss Gerbetti was very well
known among the Italians of the younger . ,, ,. i
., . " i i - stable, (ieorge T). 1 it kin ; grand l
generat on in Barre and in her passing' , ,, . ,. t 1
. ' ;A. C IheriHiilt; lister for three yc
many of her acquaintances are mourning ! J : ,. , . ' , .
YARDMASTER JAMMED.
O. Smith Severely Injured at St. Al
bans.
St. Albans, March 7. J. O. Smith,
Central Vermont yardinaster. was se
verely injured last evening when he was
caught between a platform and a freight
car, one hip being jammed.
cents a ton general increase also won by
them.
in penetrating a small advanced section, j common table nil to the (ra-jm uved I Twenty-One Freight Cars Were St
In the Arjronne we exploded in the ' spots ran olten he trminod from d- li. ste j .
2.V.00 a year, not e.uiiitinjf the three nient of tierman troops in Belgium arc
reporten in a entri ew dispatch
from The Hague. It is said that infor
mation has rcaehed The Hague from
Maetriclit. Iloll.md. that 40.0ii Cerman
eatalrymen of the Ind.-irm are on their
way to the front near Yprcs.
DERAILMENT AT WATERBURY.
region cf Couite Chauseea a mine fbri in a iiBt Mtifetry manner,
which detroje,l a Cerman f-t and. If, however, a ring !mj l-en left, the
cand vt rrater, the south edge of j place cleaned should be wet again ant
which we organized. limmediat'ly covered while still damp
"Between Haute Chavawhee and hi'ljwsth fuller's erlH. extending jiit b"
i'It having exploded two m-neo, jyond t'e ring. Let this remain on for
ttie rnemr b- rroti of the explosions "me time, an-l when brulid oT t'ie
was at.b tc ;,- a f.w.tH.-1-l at mer! p t I
i.iin1 in ei-r f -rt line An engagement i ma v he e
-jimiH in the cnire of wirh w drove the fuller' rarth if I'lrferreii.
LIVING COMES HIGH.
SLIGHTLY HEAVIER VOTE,
Cast in St. Albans Than at Last Previous
Election.
St. Albans. March 7. Voting in thej
St. Albans municipal election to-day wasj
somewhat neavier man last year, a to
tal of 77 votes having been cast up to
one o'clock this afternoon, as compared
with 743 last year at the same time.
many of ner acq
the death of one whose genial disposi
tion was welcomed in every circle.
The funeral will be held at the house
Wednesday, afternoon at 2 o'clock and
interment will be made in Hope cemetery.
RE-ELECTED DESPITE WISH.
J. K. Fullerton, Seriously 111, Declined
Election as Waterbury Town Clerk.
Waterbury. March 7. Town meeting
to-day was preceded by the village meet
ing last night, when the following village
officers were elected: President, C. I).
Swasey; clerk, J. K. Fullerton; treasur
er. K. h. Joslvn; first trustee, rrank I..
Eaton; second trustee. (Jrant O. Kusell;
collector. (Jehrge S. Blaivlcll: auditors.
George H. Dale, M. I- Thilwult and Er
nest E. Brisbin; water commissioner.
C. (J. Moody; chief engineer, Koliert Lag
an; first assistant engineer. W. X. (Al
bert; second assistant engineer, IVwiol
(Juvette; fire wardens. Me-r. Kagan.
illxTt and Guvette and 11. S. WikkI
rs, and most ot the nom
inees on that ticket were present encum
bents of the oflices. The officers chosen
are as follows: Mayor, .Tames M. llout
well; alderman for the fourth ward,
James P. Galleher; alderman for - tho
fifth ward, Patrick H. Ryan; alderman
for sixth ward, W. X. Parker; alderman
or the third ward, llarrv C. ShiirtlefT,
the lust-named to succeed Henry T. Fren
ier, resigned; city clerk and treasurer,
T. R. Merrill: sheriff. L. II. Pollard; first
constable. Koliert Johnston; second eon-
iror,
ears.
Frank K. (Jrout; auditors, M. E. Smilie,
Levi If. Bixby and Frank R. Pitkin;
commissioner of Green Mount cemetery,
W. S. Smith, to succeed L. Bart Cross;
park commissioner. Robert BJisfl, to suc
ceed .Tesse S. Yiles; school commissioner
in first ward. Edward D. Field; school
commissioner for the second ward. II. J.
M. Jones; school commissioner for the,
third ward. Dr. P. L. Templeton.
The eity meeting opened at 0 o'clock
in the city hall, the meeting being called
to order by Iresident K. H. Standish of
the Ix'ard of alderman because of the ill
ness of Mayor J. M. Boutwell. At 6:30
o'clock 9l voters had east their liallots
ami at 7 oMock 1 14 had registered. The
voting during the morning was slow but
a record vote was exe-ted. Allxrt J
honnott. who two months sgo observed
his !K'th birthday anniversary, the oldest
voter in the city, made the trip to th
city ball and cast' his vote during th
forenoon.
The lIlot liovr on city matter rlned
at 3 o'.hs-k and the 22 articles in the
warning were tsken up. but vote on
the two referendum were cast until S
Uatefhury, March J. Twenty -one
tre:g,l ear. were Merwn over trr.!T. ,rr.,..A p r..i rv
trark of the Central Vermont radroad .
at station here early this morning j stantincpl.
by a detailment, and t ie northbound ! Washington. D. C Marrh 7. The cost
I-as-eiger train wa held nn lor bout; of I. ting in Cm-tntin't.h ha increased
bare d .;er-1. f '. yrtsiim 1 1 l-O'ir wl,i!e tie n.a.n line was l-ng j 1 ". -r rent, since the lginning of t'e president sent the name of Newton t.
I in I.ke manner instead of U leare-t. A wreckage errw was sent from war, a"cording t confidential adice t"ilkr. formrr mavor of t leieland. f
BAKER'S NAME PRESENTED.
Goes t Senate as President's Nominee
for War Secretary.
Washington. I). C March 7. The
ward. A tax of 7" cents i voted, the
article on permanent rwds was rwed -' I" k in the afternoon.
over anil it was voted to install uniform
accounting in the osfice of the trustee
anil treasurer.
At the town meeting to-day these.ofVi
rrr were elected: Clerk. .'. K. Fullerton:
treasurer, L. K. .lolyn; M-hs-tmsn. My
ron rres.-i.tt; lister. tT.afie Stevens;
school dire tor. Harvev Konnn.
Mr. Fullerton i aernisr ill and hi
relative informed the m.-tting t!it it
w Mr. Kiii'etton' w i.h f., retire fr-im
the ! .e. which be bad b l ! for a .,
HUNTLEY AGAIN HONORED.
Elected for 45th Time as Twn Clerk
and Treasurer at Duxbury.
Ihjxluiry. March 7. --The following off,.
rvrs were el.ite.i at t'.e I'uxoury town
meeting to-day: Mo-!, rator. It. I. IV
merritt -. rl.-k an! tr.-aurer. E. W. Hunt,
lev ibis l.-tli rlivtKim: t men. W.
. Tnrtor: s. M. iire,t-rs. U A. for-
and l''i! p s.;,,,,,,. ,.t.-r. Homer Kmn".
St. Altunal to clear the wrc kaje.
tlx tK djrtnieoU
sevrrtary of war to tlie Senate lo-dav.
it ers; tuit ttie voters refiisel to grant d : r-d eorrn..s.rer. t ret I nl
tlie reju.-st. fetii of the f-r, U. F. 111 t.
i
