HS th.IN agowinth~e N
dily eyents mvaa 10 f 9.0 d oft1
11not0 p d In oV de to I etII " U -
h it etonoo tieatme I LDryn
on making cbrctionsaon th. "umptY
~uinpthlrtr eition later. ___________________
TNO. 3629. WEATHE-FA, MOIDERAYL WASHINGTON, D. Q.. S9UNDAY. SEPTEMBER 24. 1916. ONE CENT.
25,000 WELCOME
go 0. P. NOMINEES
Hughes and Fairbanks Cheer
ed to Echo in Indianapolis.
By WILLIAM HOSTER.
(laternatiomal Newu service.)
Indianapolis. Ind.. Sept. 23.-Twenty-five
thousand people welcomed here tor*ght
the first appearance in the campaign of
Charles E. Hughes. Fepublicajn Presi
dential candidate, and Charles W. Fair
banks, his running mate, on thi same
platform.
By constant spraying and -applications
of Ice bags, Hughesrthroat was enabled
to stand the strain to the end, and.
though with husky voice, he wound up
the tour of Indiana In a whirl of devil
fire. bras, bands, and enthusiasm Six
thousand people heard the candidate
speak in Tomlinson Hall. where he was
Introduced by Mr. Fairbanks. Twice as
many more attended the overflow meet
Ings at which Hughes appeared and spoke
briefly.
At the big meeting Mr. Hughes return
ed to the Mexican attack, reading once
more the alleged instructions of Presi
dent Wilson to John Lind, that Huerta
must be driven out of Mexico. lie re
newed also his demand for the use of
reason instead of force in the settlement
of industrial disputes, driving home, amid
cheers from his audience, his denuncia
aon of the Adamson eight-hour law. He
got a flattering response to his plea for a
protective tariff, and a genuine ovation
followed his pledge, If elected to the
Presidency, to protect American com
snerce and uphold the national honor in
all parts of the world.
"I stand for the honor of the American
flag, for firm insistence on American
rights. I stand for the enforcement of
American rights on land and sea, without
fear and unftinchingly, with regard to all
niatione. and in respect to American lives.
Arneric n property and American com
nc ree. "he said.
The dominant note througiout the day,
as in hs speech tonight. was the demand
for a stalwart Americanism. It occurred
in every speech he made trom La Porte
to Indianapolis.
Indianapo:s provid-d the climax to
the series of meetings at which crowds
and enthusasm generally prevaled
through the 4v. From La Porte, where
h-- he-,,n th day's work. to Indiarapolie.
where he will res over Sunday. prior to
en t-:mn , hm he olrossd .<even meet
ing.
PRESIDENT TO INVADE
NEBRASKA OCTOBER 5
Western Speaking Campaign Will Start
at Omaha.
(By ths starnatiemal News Servie)!
New Tork. .ept. aL-President Wilset
will begin his Western speaking cam
paign at Omaha, Nebr., on October ', it
wAas announ:d at Dem-cratic national
headquarters tcday.
Chairman Va:u e McCocmnick stated this
probably wv .1 be the extreme Western
point of th. President's twing about the
-:rcle. Arrincements have been made
fru hi to speak at Indi-tnapoli., before
a god roa conventicn on Octiter 12.
Fol oing ths. the President will re
tirn to ShlowI- Lawn to receive a dele
gatior. of Aho ' -n.CA PennsylvaniAns on
Dctober 14
The NebrakK speaking ' date is the
&aentennial anniersary of that
Stat.'s admision to the Fninn. An in
,tation has ten extended to ex-Secre
try of State Bryan to be tresent.
MEXICAN ARMY OFFICER
CONFIRMS BELL REPORT
-ol. Chapa Describes Attack on Chi
huahua City.
IBY the Intersational News Servile.)
Brownsville. Tex., Sept. 23.-Confirma
:ion that Villa attacked Chihuahua City
in September 1I. and that a desperate
)attle was wkaged in the capital Itself
was brought here today by Col. Pedro
'hapa. a Carranzista officer.
Chapa said that Villa. with I,700 men,
is;;uised as farmers and cattlemen en
ered tho city while all the officers of
the rarrIson were at a siesta, following
in afternon of patriotiC exercises. Their
nen were asleep or celebrating and even
the guarde and sentries had been with
Irawn fi.ini the outskirts of the city that
ihev might partia. tn in the festivities.
The Villistas were heaten off, accord
ing t the officer, "ith a loss of 200
tilled. 29 wounded ar-l YO prisoners.
,hapa would give no estimate of Car
-ansista losses. b-it admitted they were
arge.
As a result of the bungle at Chihuahua,
Thapa said, it is probable that Gen.
rrevino will low his podt and Gen.
Vafarette will npplant him.
Villa's surprise and sarategy were com
olete. according to Chapa. He said the
Villistas entered the city froim various
lirections in small groups. They ap
sarently were unarmed. He declared they
nust have had assistance from the in
side, because they seized their arms
tnd attacked at a given time.
SINGS WELL AT 80.
Er,. Flora E. Barry Celebrates
Birthday with Recital.
Boston. Sept. 23.-Mrs. Flora E. Barry.
.me of Boston's old-time opera singers.
elebrated her w0th birthday by singing
br about 100 guests at her home. 1214
Thandler street. Mrm. Barry has hair
carcely gray and eyes that can see to
ead without glasses.
In a sweet contralto voice she rendered
.n aria from "Elijah. Then she gave a
Ocond with three of her former music
upis.
150,000 TO OWN HOTEL.
taty Ose Sare to Each Stoekholder
in New York Structure.
New York. Sept, 23-New York is soon
ave a hotel owned by 150.000n stockhold
rs. The coot will be S15,000.000, and to
me will be allowed to purchase mnore than
Saday Outiag to Philadel~t
t.5S; Chester. S2.25; Wilmington. *2.00;
ound trip. Baltimore and Ohio. 7:061
in., Oet. L. Returning same da-y.-l
GEII $6 FOX - RIUIT. 1
Postmast Also Eemovaby Men
tiese" by War Department.
Wnaam J. ODeley. postmaster at
Utica, Okla.. yesterday received bo
able mention. congratulations and 35 from
the War Department.
He was the first poetmsster to send In
the name of a recruit for the army under
the administration's plan to have every
postmaster in the United States act as
recruiting agent for the aMy.
LABOR PREPARES
FOR BIG STRIKE
Union Leaders Discuss Plans
for Monster Walkout.
(By the Internattoeal ews Servise.)
New York, Sept. .--Final plans
for Wednesday's general sympathetic
strike of all union labor organizations
were discussed at an important con
ference kt the Continental Hotel to
day. This followed a city-wide tour
by labor leaders, in which they sound- I
ed sentiment in the individual organi
zations over their action Friday in
ordering a general walk-out.
Estimates of the labor leaders
ranged from 60.000 to 400.000 as to
the number of men who will partici
pate in the general strike.
Hugh Frayne. chairman of the
Greater New York Labor Conference,
which decreed the strike. expressed
the belief that 350,000 of the 700.000
union men in New York City will go
out Wednesday morning.
Ernest Bohm, secretary of the Cen
tral Federated Union of New York,
gave the same estimates as Mr.
Frayne.
Timothy Healy. president of the In
ternational Brotherhood of Eccentric
Firemen. declared 400,000 men would
suspend work in the entire city before
next Saturday night.
Scores of local unions will hold meet
ings tomorrow to determine the questionj
of participation in the movement.
Mr. Bohm declared that the order for
a genera! suspension of work in sym
pathv with the striking carmen is de
signed to affcct all trades
Jisti~. (" ". of the Supreme Court. is
sul an injunction today restraining of
josrs of the 7arment Cutters Associa
tion from calling out on strike certain
members of the unicf who have Indi
vidual contacts with employer. The de
:ision ala' forbids acts of violence.
zhreats or intimidation.
The labor conference issued an ord,
placing tIe subways, elevated lines and
surface cars in Manhattan and the Bronx
on the "unfair" list. Plans were formed
to picket all lines and take the names
of such patrons as can be recognized.
Unon men patronizing the strike-bound
transit systems will be fined from 31 to
2 each offense.
WHEAT FAMINE NEAR,
SAYS U. S. OFFICIAL
Weights and Measures Chief Declares
Situation Is Serious.
That the United States is facing a
serious wheat famine Is the opinion of
Commissioner Hartigan. of the Bureau
of Woights and Measures, who baros the
statement on data gatnered from wheat
and flour exp"rts from all parts of the
couo try.
This fact s probably the cause of the'
petition being circulated in New York
City demanding that the Federal Trade
Commission lace an embargo on flour
Such an embargo would result in the
countrv's wheat supply being kezt here
and would in all protability lower the
price of br'ad through the country.
Commissioner Hartigah quotes from a
letter receivail from Jay Burns, of
Omaha, a member of the executive coom
mittee of the National Association of
Master Bakers, who sass '-Our wheat
crop is the smallest grown in the 'nited
States in tifty sears."
"It is probah!e that the cour.try will!
be forced to import wheat to meet our
demands. The only apparent remedy at
present seems to be action of the govern
ment toward placing restrictions rn ex
orts- qt
"An embargo placed on whest would
!nsure domestic needs and the price
would decne from 25 to 10 cents a bush
el. thereby yielding the farmer a fair
price and -it the same time saving con
sumers of the Cnited States about $20.
C00,N( a month."
GIRL, 17, INDICTED ON
A CHARGE OF MURDER
cial to The Washington Herld.
Sergeant, Ky., Sept. 23--Miss Mary
Crabtree. 17. was indicted jointly with
Arch and Otto Crabtree, brothers. by the
grand jury at Harlan, charged with the
murder of George Dean, a deputy sheriff
at Coxton, two weeks ago.
It Is charged that 'Dean was attempt
Ing to quell a disturbance at a ball game
when the shooting occurred. The broth
ers are accused of firing the first volley
at close range, and Miss Crabtree is said
to have grasped the revolver and fired
the fourth shot.
SLAVER WHO ESCAPED
FROM SINGSING KILLED
epecaul to The Washington Herald.
Rochester. N. Y., Sept. 23.-Chief of
PoliceQuigley has received word from
the police of the Canadian town of Sault
Ste. Marie that Rocco Scalia, of this
city, was killed there a week ago by
Charlie Bagnato.
Scalzo kept a den on St. Paul street.
He brought over three girls frorm Italy
and, kept them in slavery. He was con-'
victed and sentenced to . ten years in
prison. He escaped from Sing Sing on
June 28, 191S, and was not recaptured.
Baasad's inteetheart, a beautiful Ital
ian girl, was one of Scalso's victims.
When Soelso escaped from prison Hag
nato set out on a hunt for him.
Greekm and Italians Marc~h OE to
Join Alles.
Sajoniki, Sept. 23-Amnid scenes of great
enthusiasm a large force of Greeks and
Itaian. departed for the front today to'
join the allies. They were wildly cheered
by large crowds that gathered along the
streets to watch them march away. The
war spifit is flassIng high here now as
TEUTONS LAUNCH
DRIVE ON RUSSIA
Opw Offensive East of Wilna
with Gas Attacks.
(By the Interatiemal News Serviee.)
London, Sept. 23.-The new Gernan of
fensive In ussia., aimed at stopping thi
drive on Kovel *kmd Lemberg, appears to
have begocn.
What is telieved to cave been the
opening attack in the expected rew drive
was launened yesterday south of Narotch
Lake, east of Wilna. It was ushered i'n
by the emission of great quantitles of gas
and followed ); violent infantry assaults
in dense fomuaes.
The Russian war offica this afternoon
asserted that the Teutons were driven
back on the whole line of atta lk. Fur
ther to the south, near the railway luter
section Baroncvltchi, the Germans also
liberated ans, but no lnf'ntry attacks
were made.
Both offenrive operations are believed
to usher in q drive against Minx!,, the
Important railway city southwest of
Wilna which Hindenburg tried vainly top
reach In his drive last fall. Narotc:
l.ake lies !orth of the Wiln .Minsk
Railwav. 3arniovitchl is on th' Brest
Litovsk Railway. The distance from
Both points of attack to Minsk is about
seventy-live les. Berlin ls silent on
these operations.
The German war office reports the e
pulse of str-mng Russo attacks near
Korytnitza, souti-east of Vladimir-Volyn
ski. The fighting In the Carpathiane is
reported by Berlin to be slackening.
Vienna ' tonight announced :*fficially
that the Rournanians %cre driven back
south of Doina Vatra. In the wooded
Carpathians, a counter attack.
RUSS AND ROMANIANS
TURN ON MACKENSEN
German War Office Admits Attacks on
Invading Army.
tl the interasioal Neyes Service.)
London. Se pt -The R usso-Rou
manian army in the Dobrudja has
turned and re-umed the offensive
againit Field Marshal von Mackensen's
German. Buigarian and Turkish forces
south of the Czernaweda-Constanza
litl..
Th 4 German war offiee this after
nocen reported that the invading army
has been attacked both on the Danube
aI T:pro 'i. fourteen miles south
west of Constanza. The attacks were
repulsed, it added.
Soria oticially announced that about
25.000 Roumanlans attacked Bulgar
forces Thursday, but were repulsed.
Unofficial dispatches assert that the
Mackensen army is In retreat and that
the German commander has abandoned
the Danube forti as of pIhstr-.. These
reports are discredited here by military
experts as are rumors of Mackensen's
army being "encircled."
Critics point out that the strategic posi
tion of the Bulgar-Turco-German armies
precludes such a movement on the part
of the R'isso-ftoumsnians at this stage
of the Dubrudja battle. No doubt ia
entertained here, however, that the Rus
sians and Roumanians have successfully
checked the advance ,n the Crernawoda
ronstanza line.
VILLA ACTIVITY HALTS
NEW LONDON PARLEY
)espite Denials. Commissioners Ap
pear Greatly Worried.
By STUART GODWIN.
(Intermatioast News Service.)
New London. Conn.. Sept. 23.-In spite
of the repeated Mexican claims that'
Villa's activities in Chihuahua are of no
Importance, the American commissioners
took the reports of Villa's movements so
seriously that even unofficial conferences
were suspended today. Until Maj. Gen.
Bliss returns on Monday and can inter
pret the exact changes in the military
situation, brought about by the fresh
bandit movements. nothing will he at
tempted here in the way of further dis
cussions.
It was admitted today by a member
f the American commission that the
complete control of Northern Mexico
Plalped by the Carranza government ap
plies to only railroad and lImited terri
tory on each side of the lines in many
sections. The Mexicans claim the de facto
government troops in the northern rtates
are entirely capable of coping with the
bandit question and are able to guarantee
protection of the border, is not taken
with the faith formerly evinced by the
American conferees.
Reperts of preliminary negotiations
with American bankers n Boston and
New York. looking to a large loan to the
de facto government were revived today
in connection with the visit to Boston
of Senors Pant and Bonillas and the visit
to New York of Luis Cabrera.
DEMOCRATS DISCOUNT
T. R.'S THUNDERBOLTS
(By the Internatiemal Wews Service.)
New York. Sept. 23.-"Col. Theodore
Roosevelt's notice of the thunderbolts he
Is to discharge on his forthcoming Middle
Western taip haS not thrown any per'
:eptible scare into the Democratic or
ganization" Vance McCormick, Dem
ocratic national chairmaa said today.:
'We have learned not to fear the,
iolonel. He came out with a stirring en
lorsement for Robert Bacon for United
Btates Senator and William Calder won
the primary election hands down.
"It appears that Roosevelt wili devote
a lot of his ammunition ~.nst the'
Adamson S-hour bili. We art not at all
afraid of that. The Democrats plan to
place all the fact, connected with that
legialation before the public and when
he people understand, they will be grate
lul and not antagonistic. When the facts
are known. It is my opinion that both Mr.
hughes and the Colonel will steer clear
af that Issue."
Impaled on Fence; Will Die.
Utica, N. Y., Sept. 23.--Wlilam S. Mc
Jartney, until recently of Philadelphia, but
~or a few rnonths acting as an Inspector
~or the British government on war muni-:
Son contracts In this city, fell .fronm an'
ipper window of his Tesidence today,
sras Impaled on a Pichet tme and will
Uie
I elegraph Tips
Coehoagew Bspt. 3,--Eighty-five
British and French warships, with 70,0
tean are anchored off Athens, ac
cording the Berlin Tageblatt. Admiral
Tournet Is declared to be in comnmand of
the fleet.
New York, Sept. 23.-Twenty-mix new
cases of infantile paralysis and six
deaths were reported today. This is an
increase of six and a decrease of five,
respectively.
Little Falls, N. Y.. Sept. 23.-Gen. Will
iam F. Lansing, 60. prominent in business,
social and political affairs in Herkimer
County, died suddenly today. He was a
cousin of Secretary of State Lansing.
New York, Sept. 23.-Miss Dorothy Per-'
kins, daughter of George W. Perkins,
and Edward F. Freeman were married
this afternoon. The bride ts J years old.
The bridegroom is 1 and no* engaged In
the banking business.
Vienna, Sept. 23.-A new ambassador
to the United States. to take the place,
of Dr. Dumba, who was recalled be
cause of unneutral activities, will soon,
be named. Count Tissa, replying to a
question In Parliament today, said the;
ways and means to fill the vacancy
would be found immediately.
Be rIbi, Apt. u'. (Via Sayville).- Iiriin
newspars today are giving much spac'
to the feat of the commande of an Au -
tro-Hungarian seaplane whb yesterday
sunk a French submarine, and with the
aid of another seaplnanc saved the entire
crew.
New Yor%, Sept. 23.-Tie laigest fareign
order for copper, involving 448,000.i'
pounds .n- $125,O000,00 in money was
placed today. The material will be di
vided among the Uniti Metals Selling
Company and the American Smelting and
Refining Company.
Sparta, N. J.. Sept. 21.-Climbing ov'r -
stone wall atis home, Elmer Pecker 40
years old, a farmer. accidentally dis
charged a abotgun, the charge enterinrl
his body above the heart He died ir.
stantly. Decker had seen hawks in his
field a short distance and went to shoot
them.
Chicago, Sept. 3.-The private bank of'
Campbell, Dubis & Co., 'he tenth to fail
in Chicago within the last month, has
just closed its doors. Creditors fled a
petition of involuntary ban rrtuptcy
against .h, joatitution. which was oper
ated in th' foreign quarter under the
name of thte ndustrig Savings Bank.
Philadelphia. Sept. 21 -Phila.lelphia
was delnitesy chosen as the site for the
1919 triennial conclave of the Knights I
Templar at a meeting of the conclave
committee. Lee S. Smith. of Pittsburgh.
the grand master of the order, sail the
;919 -onchve will be the biggest in the
history cf the order, and that at least 50,
000 Knighti Templars will be in the pa
rade.
Richmond. Va.. Sept. .-Barton
Heights, a residential suburb, h2d a sesre
when a C-sea:-old child, Womh Boyd.
who had 'been going to the public school
for several days. died of Infantile par
alysis. The news spread rapidly and
others rushed to the school to remove
their children. The school was closed
and primary :upils placed in quarantine.
Carlisle. Pa . Sept. 23.-Mrs. Abigail Mc
Ginl-v Johnson of Shippensburg, Pa., who
has just passed her 80th birthday, is not
only the oldest choir singer in America
but has to her credit sixty-seven years
of continuous church choir singing. prac-|
tically without the missing of a Sunday.
She began singing in the Presbyterian
choir as an alto when 13 years old. Chang
ing soon to soprano voice, she has sung
at practically all Sunday and midweek
servires since.
Boston, Sept. 2.-Prof. Carl Siedhof, for
several years principal of the Copley
Square School of Languages. is dead at
Winchester. in his 87th year.
Boston, Sept. 23.-Fresh eggs will sell
at 75 cents a dozen retail in this State
within a short time, according to Wilfred
Wheeier, secretary of the State Board of
Agriculture.
Louisville. Ky.. Sept. 23.-As against a
nominal shortage of 50 or 600 cars at this
season, the Louisville and Nashville Rail
road Company report, a shortage of 1,5%
freight cars.
Parkesburg. W. Va-. Sept. 23.-The Rev.
George W. Peterkins. 75 years old, bishop!
of West Virginia, is dead here after an!
Illness of four years. He was for more
than fifty years a bishop of the Protest
ant Episcopal Church.
Linden, N. J., Sept. 23.-One boy was
killed, another was seriously injured and
a third escaped without injury when an
Atlantic City tralp on the Central Rail
road, of New J sey, struck a grocery
wagon in which the youths were riding.
Chicago, Sept. 23.-Owing to the cari
shortage the Illinois Public Utilities Com
mission has sent a telegram to the Inter
state Commerce Commission at Washing
ton insisting that grain cars of Illinois
roads held by Eastern roads he returned
Immediately.
Boston. Sept. 23.-An investigation
of the price of bread, with special
reference to an advance announced by:
wholesale dealers, has been begun by
State Commissioner Thure Hanson. of
the Department of Weights and Meas
ures. The master bakers, he said,
would be asked to defer general ac
tion toward advancing prices pending
the result of the State's inquiry.
Sayville, L. I., Sept. 23.-Alfred Johnson,
TS years old, for many years Republican
leader in the town of Islip, is dead at'
his home, North road. For two terms
he held the office of highway commis
sioner. He was born in Engiand and in
early life was a preacher.
TuckahoeN. Y., Sept. 23.-Annunziatto
Lingeria, who was known as "The Black
H-ander,"' and who, the polike say, served
from 19063 to 1911, In Sing Sing for black-:
mailing in Brooklyn, was shot and killed
Friday by a man who escaped.
Greenwich. Conn., Sept. 23.-Andrew:
Rose, of 22 East Fifty-seventh street,
New York City, who has been occupying
the home of T. M. Hodgens here, has re
ported to the police the Ioss of two
valuable bracelets belonging Mrs. Rose.
Mrs. Rose has offered a re hrd of $500
for the return of the jewels.
Cambridge. Mass., Sept. 23.-Harvard
University authorities have taken
steps to prevent the possible intro-I
duction of infantile paralysis 'when the'
institution opens September-25. Cards
have been prepared, asking the. stu
dents whether they have been exposed
to the disease. Those who have been
exposed will be barred from classes,
jt was stated.
WH4L NURBI WOURED.
Km. will=im lm c.y bee.n =
at. Paul for Paris.
New York, Sept. Z-Mrs. William Ellis
:orey, tormerty Miss Mabele Glnma. the
acetres, sailed for Paris today on the
American liner St. Paul.
She will resume her Red Cross work
with the Amercan ambulance and will
look after the wounded soldiers that have
been cared for in her chateau In the out
skirts of Paris.
BRITISH CHARGE
TAKES TRENCHES
Advance on Front of Half Mile
e Made Near Bapaume.
(By the laternational News Servie.)
London. Sept. 23.-The capture by the
British of a strongly fortified system of
trenches east of Couroelette, in the dl
rection of Bapaume, is the only out
standing event of the last twenty-four
hours on the Somme front. The advance
was- made on a front of half a mile.
ronight's headquarters report from Sir
Douglas Haig says that his troops during
lhe day "continued to improve their posi
tions" south of the Ancre. British de
tachments penetrating the German ad
vanced lines at several points.
On the Franco-German lines In the
Picardy there was no action of conse
juene. Violent artiliery due.. raged
throughout the day in the regions of
Bauchavesnes. Beloy and Berny villages.
In th' Vosges the French frustrated a
3erman attempt to penetrate the lines
south of Sainte Marie. The final re
pulse of the Teutons was preceded by
bitter hand-to-hand fighting.
The British artillery. according to the
afficial night report, did much effective
work in hampering German troop and
supply movements behind the lines Ten
3erman gunpits were completely shatter
ed by British shells and fourteen others
were badly damaged. Three German
aeroplenes were shot down and five
)thers forced to descend. Five British
machines are missing after the day's
numerous aerial combats, the statement
admits
The lierman war office this afternoon
reported the repulse of all French, and
British attacks on the Soome during the
last twenty-four houra.
A French aviator flew 100 miles beyond
the German frontier and threw bombs
m Ludwigehafen. where Count Zeppelin
ham his principal base for testing his air
ships. and on the city of Mannheim.
$1259,00,9 WORTH Of
coER BoUwi OF Us S.
British Government Makes Record Pur
chase for War Purposes.
sscw to The Wauhigt. nesal
New York, Sept. M.-The largest single
purchase of copper metal ever recorded
in this or any other country was con
trated for today nhen representatives
Df the British governmcnt. acting for the
entente allies, completed arrangemen's
with American producers for the sale by
the latter of 230,0W long tons, or approxi
mately 44Q.000.00( pounds of the red1 metal
The exact sum of money Involved m as
not stated, hut it was learned the' it
vas In the neighborhood of imW o
The British government stands en the
record as the buyer. 1-ut tie transactior
'as made for the joint aroennt of all
the allies
The sate is participated in Iy prac
<lle all of the leading Amercan pro
ducing companies. but the bulk o' it is
to be furnishcd by the ~nited Metals
Selling Company and the American
4ynlting and Refining Company. Delivery
af the copper is to be made over the first
lix months of next year. or at the rate
If about ,.00.0) pounds a month
This sale has been pending for some
ime. A month ago rumors of It were
nrst heard and since then there have been
many conferences between the British
icents and the American produceis. On
Thursday practically all details were
"mpleted and yesterday the participa
ion of the several American coripanie.
as arranged.
BOY BELIEVED SEALED
IN REFRIGERATOR CAR
(By the Internatioasl News Service.)
Chicago, Sept. -Roll-g arourd some
where in the Middle Wes: it a refrigera
or car, locked ar' sealed. which i b
ieved to contain :!n S-er-old boy He
1as been there '.n0 'it, :d- S .ors
of railroad detactives and - t '
have been w arned to be on the outlook
Mrs. Edward Ballou who lives tear
:he Pan Handle tracks. reported to the
police that she saw two boyv put another
3o y into the car. Seal it and then scamper
Iff, leaning their companotD* a prisoe- A
rew minutes after she horrif-d teo
zee the car being move of the yard,
She lost sizht of it . ce -he could
notify the yard officers.
ALLEGED BLACKMAIL
QUEEN BACK IN CELL
(By the International News Service.)
Chicago, Sept. 21.-Mrs Helen Evers.
3ne of the alleged 'Queers" of the al
eged black-mail syndi-ate, was out of
he government's toils ard into the State's
today. Shortly after Mis. Erers was
released on $2->.000 ball y Federal of
icials, she was arrmsted to- agents from
State's Attorney G'oyne's omfce and taken
back to a cell.
The State's attorney declined to give
toy reason for the arre-et other than he
wanted to question her. '' It Is believed.
however, that the arrest was made In
nonnection with some of the hard s al
eged operations int Chicago.
MRS. P. L SHEPARD DIES.
Was Known as "Sunlight'' of Hos
pital, Where She Died.
New Haven. Con'. , Sept. 23.-Mrs.
Peter L. Shepard. mother of Finley Shep
a~rd, who married Htelen Gould. died at
he New Haven Hostital tod's. She was
4 years old, and l ad been at. lhe hospital
nine yecrs.
Despite the fact. she was blind. Mrs.
Shepard -<as of a most cheerful disp'osi
tion. arw! her optistic advice to other
patier,t0 n ot' her t En i e of 'Sun'i;.;t .f
the hec al and an.'tei of the wa'.,l
Quick~eSt Sersi'e t, Uailhmere.
Every iiour on th hocur. Bai:more and
Ohio: 11.75 routi trio. bsturday'e and
kiays, $1.EO.-Mi
WILSON DEFENDS
EIGHT-HOUR LAW
Also Praises Federal Reserve!
Act in Shadow Lawn Speech.
(by the International Sews Serviee.)
Shadow Lawn, N. J. Sept. 28.-Presi
dent Wilson bpened his campaign here
this afternoon with a defense of the
Adamson 8-hour law and praise for the
Federal reserve act. The meeting was ar
ranged for the Business Men's League
of New Jersey. The attendance was ap
proximately 2,000 persons.
The President talked from the veranda;
of his summer home. He said the rail-I
road controversy. out of which the $
hour law developed, caused him much
distress.
"I never had franker conferences than
I did with both sides to this con
troversy," he declared. "When I saw
there was no chance for an agreemant I,
felt it my duty to the 100.000,000 people
of this country to interfere.
"I saw there was one side that was
arbitrable; another side that was not
arbitrable. I do not consider the principle
of the 8-hour day arbitrable.
"The railroad executivese wanted to'
know how they were to meet the extra
burden In wnges. When they asked for:
legislation that would protect them
through increased freight rates I was
willing to arbitr4te that point by ap
pointing a fair commission to observe
the law in operation and report."
The preamble to the speech was an
academic discussion of the relation be
tween capital and labor and was con
sidered by many to be a direct appeal for
the labor vote in November.
To give emphasis to the main points
CONrINUED ONt PAGE TWO.
DISTRICT PLANT SITE
LIKELY, SAYS MORAN
Chamber of Commerce Head Thinks
Local Claims Will Win.
In direct contradiction to those who
have tried to diecourage local activities,
toward bringing the 1U.000,000 governmentI
armor factory to this city, President P.
T. Moran, of the Chamber of Commerce.
Fald last night that the very fact of
Washington's beitng politically inert.
would legislate in its favor wh.n the
selection Is made.
"Washington." says President Moran,
"will receive the support of most all those 1
States that are not in the fight them-:
selves. and those who have put forth
their claims thus far have fallen so far
short of the advantages that would ac
crue from a Washington seleoon that
I believe thra ail be.wery little beidta
tion on the part of thee in authority to
award this city the plant.
"The Chamber of Commeros is putting
forth every possible effort toward this,
end. and enthusiasm Is growing to such
a pitch that even those who are not on
the committee are contributing their serv
ices toward the project. We all realize
that such a plant as has3 been proposed
will immeasurably benefit the city by
bringing thousands of high-class work
men here, and at the same time will tend
to beautify the section of the city in
which the plant would be built."
The Commerce body is conductirg an
epen forum of the subject, and has issued
invitatione to all ize' to send In an,
arguments w,11hcih thy think would
strengthen the rapitals claim as a con
tender.
Secretary Daniels. before leaving the
city for New York. said that October 10
was the date for the last hearing. and
that on this date Alexandria would be
heard. After this the work of eliminat
ing the contestants, accordirg to the
strength of their claims, would begin.
Previous to his departure. Secretary
Daniels stated that the selection of the
site for the proposed experimental labor
atory had been referred to the civilian
consulting board headed by Thomas A.
Edison. A report of the board is ex
pected as soon as the Naval Secretary
returns to the city.
BITTER FEELINfi BREWS
IN WAR DEPARTMENT
Sharp.Division Created on Bell's Mexi
can Report.
bitter feelig is develoring between the
civilian and nilitary elements In the War
Department ove' the Mexican aituatior..
The open dIsreliting of Gen. ;corgf.
Bell, Jr.'s report on the Chihuahua bat-'
tIe, in which he declared that Francisco
Villa was present in person and made r
speech to the natives from the t,alconv
of the govrnir's palace, by civilian of
ficials of the <'epartment. Is ch:cfly re
sponsible for this.
While no vai-mal report of how he se
cured his nformatlon yet has boen re
ceived from (-n. Bell, it was learne0;
yesterday that it came direct from secret.
agents when he sent south to Chihuahua:
City immedietely upon the word reaching;
him that 'iM had threatened an attack
upon that place. Thes. agents also have
reported that e same Land which at
tacked Chihuahua now plans an as
sault in the n ar future upon both Tor
reon and Durango. in order to demon
strate their poNer to prevent. if possible.
the Carranzista agents in this country
securing a loan from American financiers.
The Stat D'epartmnen'. still is without
definite .vordI rgarding V'illa from its
own agents. ernt to 'I ermine whether
he actually is leading the force operating
near Chihuahlaa City. It has received in
formation, howcver. that a number of~
Villa's personal followers led the attacle
and also ronfirmation that a section of
the Ca~rransisita c.arrison of the city de
serted and joined the 'M'ndits 'mined'
ately following the attack.
NENEZERCUFFRELSPEARE
JOINS D. C. GUARDSMEN
John Nenezercuffretapeare dropped into
the National Guard recruiting station at
Seventh street and Pennsylvania avenue.
yesterday, and signed up 'for three years.
John says he Is of French-Canadian-in-:
dlan. origin. He was assigned to the
Third Infantry.
Other recruits at the Pennsylvania aye
nue station yesterday w',ere Richard Gil
ley, who also joined the infantry, arad
Clarence E. Birch, who was sent to the
battery.
Recently, In order to secure a recruit,
Sergt. John W. Thompson, of the Cavalry
am.sGeema,..hi .~i
ZEPPEUNS RAID
ENGLISH COAST;
ONE SHOT DOWN
Lincolnshire and Outskirts of
London Bombed from Air
By Monster Fleet.
(my the I.teo........ . ss. s.
LAon, Sept 24 (SundayA
raid on Lnooiunhira, the easter-, Oountme
and the outskirts of London las nht
was beaten off with serious loes to the
Inva'ders.
An offcial report issued by Sir Jobn
French early this morning, ays:
"Airships attacked Lincolnahire. the
east-n countie. and the outskirts of
London last night, but wore beaten
off. One airship was brought down in
Southeastern Esse and another is re
ported to have been downed on the Me
coast, but this is unonfirnaned The
casualties and damage caused by the
raid have not been reported."
An earlier report said:
"A number of hostile airships vis
ited the east and southeast coast of
England. Bombs were dropped i
various places."
The reception accorded the air raid
ers during thia attack proves con
clusively that Londoners are at lest
prepared against whet heretofore has
proved one of the most vital methods
of destruction used by the Kaiser. The
example thus established will no
doubt prove an incentive to those
guardians of English strongholds who
have been terrorized at even the
thought of these invisible invaders.
AMERICAN FLIER SHOT
TO DEATH IN FRANCE
Kiffin Rockwefl Instantly Killed in Air
Battle.
sps Vo 7%. Wassngton RHeM
Paris. Sept 28.-Kiffin Rockwell. the
Atlanta aviator, attached to the Amer
ican squadron, was shot dead this
morning at 10 o'clock in the course of
an air battle on the Alsace front
Rockwell rose at a 30 alone. in an
armored machine, and fearlessly at
tacked a German taube He succeeded
in emptylog the magazice of him rapid
firing gun with accurate aim, but
while turning to encircle his oppo
nent he received a bullet in the head
and dropped like a stone. Death was
instantaneous.
1%e lGy was taken with all hoiss
to a Military hespitaL The fuaeral
will take plins Monday
Meanwhile, the aviator a brother.
Paul. was advised telegraphically of
Rockwell's death He will go to Al
sace tomorrow, accompanied by Will
tam Thaw, who is in Paris on fur
lough.
Rockwell's death is a great lose to
French military aviation It was stated
at the war ofice tonight that he was
one of the most brilliart aviators in
action since the outbreak of the war
Rockwe!l was twice mertioned in the
arm' dispatches and had been award
ed the War Cross and a military medal.
He was about to be promoted V- the
'ank of lieutenant
COAL MINES MAY FACE
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
Federal Trade Commission Threatens
Action to Curb Waste.
Governeirnt cortrol of coa. tr'np
is a posble -ecomrnmendatlon o! ite
Federa! T-ad C'4mmission AT Irv-e
tiglation of the anth-acite and hitu
mirous min: ani market operations
has jugt 1-en stard n pu'-Fuance of
C'ongressi'.n1a dii-cuss ins
The cni41ssior. w:l determ:ne if
unfair competition s practiced Iv
perator or a large scak. and re. -
mmnend measure- for s'cpPng iT It
hs all-d ' furlhe- that rv n if t be
rue t hat oniy one-half -f one p.
,ent rf the cal resources of the
country h-e been used up. the pre-a
t, tr ta kIg the pick of fle 'a'
,ialabr. waCtog more than tI -
ii. tons a y-ear, ar cord'ng to ''-n-c'' -
ains- stimate
1'rt p'r. W- thr'ayer h' r nr
about an uinwarrantsd mes'I ton'
price of 0al, and 'hr xmis-ior.
nrr ctigatier will ,, 1 ' d ; .allwu
larl with thi phase Of the prolerm
it will recommernd goverment ro'
of tie mmiers if r,- he ens 'ne'
a sisiutitr
Tie Ir est;iration 'et-e iu -
arly to priceCc IT has been <'i-ged
that present prices are rot iiisted
and that ,rmbinst i-n, I av b-n
formed to keep prices high
AND NOT ONE WORD WAS SAI,
Disorced Couple, Each to Remarry.
Meet in License Buresu.
Syracuse N. T., Sept. 23--Marred.
divorced and about to marry other
partners, Mrs. Grace Dudley Seaman. of
Alienhurst. N. J , met her former hus
band, Lloyd Seamnan. in the marriage
license bureau here
Mrs. Seaman was arranging for her
weddinc day. when she becomes the
wife of Dr. George Eliot Norton. of
New York. Mr. Seaman Sas inquir
ing how iong a woman had to lIs- in
Syracuse before she could obtain 5
license. He did not diactose t-he name
%f his proposed wife.
The couple did not speak as they
passed by.
5-TO-3 ODDS ON HUGE.
Republican Candidate Riles FaY
erite g* Chicag-o Bettlng.
Chicago. Ilit, Sept 28 -Charles E
Hughes rules as the betting favorite in
odds posted by Jim O'Leary. At other
places in the city even money is being
offered. t'p to date, howev-er, the ex
pents say, there has been comparatively
little betting.
Frank 0. Lowden is betting favorite
in the gubernatorial contest and Mac
Lay Hloyne for State's attorner.
'ly odds are. Wilsn 7 to 5. Hughes.
3 o2other candidates, i. to 1," mid
0' Leary tonight. "Tee gam wume M
own tiese in Damagt.
