THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow; moderate
temperature; moderate weat winds.
Hlihtit temperature yesterday, jshowttt, 61.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on pa, g.
tin.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by ffte Sun Prtnflrip and PubHthtng Atooctation.
60 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
8 HOUR UW IS A NATIONAL NECESSITY.
AEROPLANE FIGHTS
KIFFIN Y. ROCKWELL
SLAIN IN AIR BATTLE
UNION LEADERS' STRIKE BOAST WEAKENS;
WALKOUT ESTIMATE IS CUT TO 350,000;
B0YC0TTERS TO PICKET TRANSIT POINTS
ON WESTERN FRONT
NOT A SURRENDER TO LABOR ONIONS,
SAYS WILSON IN SPEECH OF DEFENCE
British Fell Throe Miiehinos
anil French Four and
Cripple Many.
j American Aviator With
I French Flylnir Corps DIch
( on Alsace Front.
T ?T T VWTTT XT-v . II
VUU UAAA1V. INU. JJ4,
rrinciplc Not Arbitrable,
the President' Tells Busi
ness Men.
KA1LROAD POSITION
MERELY CONJECTURE
Government Forced to Show
Tts Paramount Power
in Crisis.
BUSINESS MUST BE A
REAL PARTNERSHIP
Reconciliation of Capital
and Labor Is the Great
Problem.
Long Branch, X. J., Sept. 21. Presi
dent Wilson delivered a speech to-day
at Shadow Lawn vhlch dealt In detail
with hla method of averting the recent
ullroad strike. It waa a thins which
hid to be done, he aald, and done at
once. It woa not a final solution, but
It gave time to work out a solution.
Tin; chief cloud that la upon the
domestic horlron Is the unsatisfactory
trial Ions of capital and labor," the
President said. "It will be Intolerable
if at any time any croup of men by any
process should lie suffered to cut no
lle ty off from the necessary supplies
wnicn sustain life."
Employers and men In such cases talk
as It the only matters to be settled were
Mween theBi. he commented, while the
Interest of the public I paramount. Or
anlied society, another name for gov
ernment, must nsvsr permit any organi
sation to be stronger than Itself that
I' Its principal business but the ques
tion Ib how to keep this principle In
fleet, and he invited "all subscribers" to
I'Jbmlt a solution.
foaldn't Arbitrate Conertare.
The principle of the elgnt ho.ir lan Is
not arbitrable. Mr. Wilson asserted. The
railroad' demand that Congress give
them assurance of higher freight rates
to meet the Increasd cost he met with
'he statement that they did not know
n .ftntT It would cost them more, or how
much more, and that therefore they .
em asking for arbitration of a con-
.Veture. He compared this to the 80
" t (;as rate cane of New York, and
quoted the decision of the Supreme Court
10 me same ertect.
Hepuhllciins Iti the House and In the
P-hate supported the measure because It
n i right and reasonable, the President
" l.i red. He made the confident asser
t .m that his entire programme of ileai
ix uli the problem will be enacted by
C II).. Kf.
i .ic President was speaking to a dele.
Moii of business men from all parts of
'i iv Jersey, who weie reentered by
x ral hundreds of summer people from
i ,e rat resorts. The chairs on the
iiwm were filled. After the speech the
'i Idi-nt held an Infonnal reception,
.lis. Wilson by his side. Attorney-Oil---1
Gregory, Postmaster-General Bur
. tun, Col. K. M. House, Henry Morgen-
i.iii and Jacob Schlff also were on the
l i h.
.Mr. Wilson to-day accepted an Invl
itlon to speak In Omaha October 5.
lie goes to Indianapolis October 12 and
may visit Chicago meanwhile.
Flmla Mutual Dlstrast.
Of the railroad dispute, the President
snl In pint:
"I have recently been through an ex
perience which distressed me. I tried to
'commodate a difference between some
of the employees of the American rail
wn and the executives of the American
railways, and the distressing thing dls
vovered was that on the one hand there
was unlimited suspicion and distrust of
he oilier side, and that that suspicion
nd distrust was returned by the other
Ids In full measure. The executives dldJ,
not believe In the sincerity of the men, and
til men did not believe In the sincerity
and fairness of the executives, and while
arbitration was being discussed I had
this sad thought. 'Arbitration Is a word
associated with the dealings of hostile
Interests. It is an alternative of war.'
There ought to be no such thing as the
contemplation of hostility as between
men whose Interests are the same and
who should cooperate together. And,
herefore, it came upon me with a force
that It had never had before that the real
problem of capital and labor was to
bring the two sides to understand and
believe in one another: that the problem
of the next generation, If America were
r tally to release her energy, waa to be
'his real, genuine, fundamental, reconcil
iation between capital and labor.
Principle Is Not Arbitrable.
"Iieforc I consulted with them, I, of
course, made myself acquainted with the
I'o.nts. at controversy, and I learned that
they were very simple, indeed: that the
'"n demanded an eight hour day, nnd
'hat In order to make the eight hour day
work, they demanded that the railroads
nay l hem one-half more for overtime
him they paid them for the time In the
"sular day. the men alleging that that
the only way In which they could
obtain a genuine eight hour day, by mak-
I'K the railroads pay more for the time
tieyond the eight hours than they paid
'or the time within the, eight hours. I
aw at once that there was one part of
this that was arbitrable, but that in my
opinion there was another part that waa
iM arbitrable, 1 do not regard the ques
''on of the principle of the eight hour day
! arbitrable.
"The first thing I told both sides be
fo v I requested their opinion was that
I .''nod for the, eight hour day, I re-
e v. d no suggestion of any kind from
enlir side as to what the basis of set
Lenient was to be, except that the rail-
ComMmim en BUth Pott.
NEW AIR RAID ON ENGLAND;
TWO ZEPS FALL NEAR LONDON
Destruction of One of the Airships Is Not Officially Con
firmed No Report Is Made on English
, Damage and Casualties.
London. Bept. 24 (Sunday). 3:39 A.I
One German airship and probably i
another was brought down during a '
raid over the eastern counties of Eng
land and the outskirts of London last I
night
According to an official statement one
was brought down In the southern part
of Essex, and It Is teported nnotho
fell on the Essex coast.
The text jf the War Office statement
follows :
"An attack by hostile airships wan
made on Lincolnshire and the eastern
counties and on the outskirts of London.
Ths latter attack was made from the
northeast and the southeast about mid
night and was beaten oft by our anti
aircraft defences.
"One airship was brought down In
flames In the southern part of Essex and
a report has been received that another
fell on the Essex coast. The Utter r
port hitherto is unconfirmed.
CaaaalO airports l.acklas,.
"No reports of casualties or damage
have yet been received."
The raider. apparently did not come 1
so near to London as on the occasion of
the destruction of the L-21, on Septem
ber 3. The sound of gunltto was fainter.
Distant reports of anti-aircraft weapons
shortly after midnight heralded the ap
proach of the rafters.
The obervers on the toofs and
bridges of the city, however, were
treated to quite a pyrotechnic display of '
shrapnel bursting around n Xcppalln vis
ible In the sky seemingly somewhere In
the remote outskirts of London. This
spectacle was of short duration, an the
Zeppelin made off, finding the reception
too hot.
Distant flashes in Hie sky, nevcrthc ,
less. Indicated that the conflict was not
finished, and It waa an hour later .
shortly after I o'clock In the morning ,
that the Associated Press observer on a
city bridge saw u small cigarlike object
suddenly burst Into a glow on ths east
ern horlion. There was no vivid flame
lighting up the sky, as on September I,
but ths crowd of onlookers took It for
granttd that another Zeppelin had met
Its doom and cheered the city's defenders.
In the last raid by (ieiman all ships
over F.ugland three weeks ago a Zeppe
lin was brought down in the Loudon
district. The crew of the Zeppelin was
killed and later burled near the spot
where the all ship descended In tinmen.
Lieut. William L. Koblnson of the
Royal Flying Corps was responsible for
the destruction of the raider, and re
BOSTON LAWYER AND
WIFE LOST IN WOODS !
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Dennison
Missing From New Hamp
shire llesort Four Pays.
Cot.r.nnooK, N. H., Sept. 23. Four
hundred men uro beating the forest to
the .north and east of the ttalsafns, at
Dlxvllls Notch, In the effort to find some
trace of Joseph A. Dennison, formerly
District Attorney of Boston, and Mrs.
Dennison, who left the hotel for a walk
In the woods late Wednesday afternoon.
They were last seen a hundred yard
from the hotel on the trail leading
through the woods to Mud Pond, two
and one-half miles distant.
The absence of Mr. and Mrs. Dennison
was not noticed until Thursday even
ing, when, following repeated efforts to
deliver some telegrams, it was disclosed
that they had not occupied their room on
Wednesday nisht. Their chauffeur had
tried to locate them Thursday afternoon,
but was not concerned when told they
could not be found by the bellboy as
they often went out for the ufternoon,
and the maid, hiippoMug they had gone
Into Camp Minefield, fourteen miles dis
tant but connected with the hotel, had
failed to report their absence.
The first searching party went out on
Thursday evening, and Friday the em
ployees of Henry S. Hale's twenty farms
In East Colebrook and every one avail
able from the Halsams went out to beat
the woods In all directions. This force
was Increased by more than 200 men
from Colebrook later.
There Is a rumor that foul play Is feared
as Mr. Dennison had appeared worried
over a criminal case In which he was
to appear as counsel and some persons
believe that they have been abducted or
murdered. The lakes and ponds In the
vicinity have been dragged without suc
cess. Those familiar with the woods,
which are deep and afford little or no
aid to human subsistence, express fears
for their safety.
$1,000 REWARD POSTED.
Mov. Mi'fall llrsxra .tr Hampshire
Authorities to Spare Sa Effort.
Boston, ScpL 23. Gov. McCall and
District Attorney Pellltler have asked
the authorities of New Hampshire to
render all possible assistance in the ef
fort to locate Mr. and Mrs, Dennison.
Daniel H. Coakley, a brother of Mrs.
Dennison, announced before leaving
for Dlxvlllo Notch to-day that n reward
of 11,000 would be paid for the discovery
of the missing couple. Orders were sent
to the employees T the Connecticut Vnl
ley Lumber Company and tho Interna
tional Paper Company near Dlxvllle
Notch to abandon nil work nnd assist In
the search.
Dr. Park hurst Most !'.
Judgment for $2,(31.72 was given
against Dr. Charles II. Parkhurst, pas
tor of Madison Avenue Presbyterian
Church. In the Suprems Court yesterday
In favor of Edward Hsrrman.
ceived the Victoria Closa for his ex- I
plolt.
A tlrltlsh official statement said that
thirteen airships participated In the raid
over the eastern counties nnd the Lon
don district" on the night of September
2-.1. Outside of London two perilous
were killed and elceu Injured. There
was some property, but no military,
damage, it was announced ofllclully in
London.
Berlin announced the, loss of the air
ship and claimed tint the raid insulted
In the bombardment of the "Fortress of
London" and Yacriouth and Harwich, as
well as factories in the southeastern
counties. The statement adJed that
good effects were observed.
Saturday night upp. r.i to be the fa-,
vorlte time for the Hermans to laid
Ihigland, as moat of their attempt. In-.
eluding the last three, occurred on tli.it '
night.
RHINE TOWNS RAIDED.
French Aeroplane Drops Bombs and I
Itetnrne Safel).
Paws. Sept. 23. Plying nearly 100 1
miles beyond the Herman border Plight
Warrant Oltlcer Huron last night bom-1
barded the Important works at Lud-j
wlgshafen, In the Palatinate on the
Illilne, and at Mannheim, across the
river from Ludwlgshafen. The War Of-1
flee report says:
"Warrant Officer Ilaron, accompanied 1
by a bomb thrower, left his aviation
camp yesterday evening at 7.15 ami
headed for the Ithlne. They arrived
at Ludwlgshafen In due course and '
threw down three bombs on military es
tablishments In that city. Then con
tinuing their flight, they threw down
three more missiles upon n large factory
at Mannheim, on the right or east bank
uf the Ithlne. They observed the out
break of a large fire and heard several
explosions. The aviator leturned to
their camp this morning."
tierman Arradromri Bombed.
I.ONDON, Sept. 2. British naval aero
planes sucessfully bombarded German
aerodromes In Belgium. The Admiralty
announcement Hays:
"The enemy aerodrome at St. lynls
Westrem wan again attacked yesterday
by a suundrun of navnl aeroplanes'. The
results apie.ireil to be hlghl) satisfac
tory, ltell.ible reports now at hand show
that vuiy considerable iliiiiuae and man)
casu.iltlei had been I'atied by prvvloui
honilunlmeKH of this objeciiw. Thl
morning enemy nerodiomeM iiuiliNtelleM
and llaiidaemi- hiiv heavily lioinli.irdeil
1 y a naval aeroplane piiiadniit .Ml the'
nmrhlne returned safely."
HARTI6AN IN FEAR
OF FOOD SHORTAGE
Export Are AIiikuiiiiiI and Me
Asks Secretary Houston
Ke4ardiiif Substitutes.
Commissioner Hartlsun of lln- .Mayor's
Bureau of Welsh! njid Measure, nent a
letter to the Serretary of Agriculture In
Washington yesterday requesting Infor
mation on the public food supply next
year and the cost of foodstuffs based on
present Indications.
II" reminds .Mr. ltoiifton that Govern
"i report estimate a wheat crop t0".
noo.000 huhels smaller than last year
."id :i coin crop 3l.,finn,niiii Imshels
smaller. He states the belief that he.
tween C.OiP.oon and COnn.OftO bushels of
wheat nro being exported each week and
draws the conclusion that If this ratio
continues during the fiscal wheat year
only about 300,000,000 bushels will re
main to meet the home demand. Further,
he calls attention to the fact that the
yields of the three principal grains,
wheat, corn and oats, show a decrease of
a thousand million bushels, or 15 per
cent.
With this situation In mind. .Mr. Hard
Ban Inquires what will be tho total avail
able supply of wheat at tho disposal of
the Amerlean consumer next year: what
the container may expect lo pay for
whet, Hour and bread, and what surplus
of other food ctops will be available as
.ubstltutes for wheat early In 1917 If
wheat Is beyond the rcacli of the wage
earner.
Puultry and eges, Mr. Ilartlgan re
rltes. form about 12 per cent, of the aver
age consumer's normal diet : meats and
dairy products, 48 per cent.: vegetables,
11; fruits, nuts, sugar and flsh. II, and
other Items, 18, All these products, he
says, are being "exported In abnormal
quantities.
"You are assured," writes the Com
missioner, "that no partisan, political,
national or other ulterior or relative ob
ject prompts this Inquiry than a desire to
lnve the American eople authoritatively
Informed." V
NAVY AIRMEN BREAK RECORDS.
Score Hit Krnm Plylna Itonta at
J.OOO Foot Elevation.
Noiiroi.K, Vn., Sept. 23. Itepotts from
the, Atlantic fled on the Southern drill
grounds tated that naval airmen, de
spite unfavorable weather conditions,
made remarkable records yentciday with
bombs and aeroplane guns from flying
boats at an elevation of 1,000 feet.
Two airmen with gunners ascended
from the North Caiollna, rarcylug twelve
bomb", small seroplane ravlil ilrcix and
snnvjl nuns, Nino of l!-,c twelve bombs
were' successfully dropped on targets,
,lnl,, ,i.,nl .1 ii , u
j Paint marlu on a canvas taiRct, lejire-
srnting men, wero nit ny rapid tire
guns and sharpshooters, Tho tests are
declared excellent, although they are the
first of the kind aver held at sea by
the American navy,
! 5 KXUTilSH AKHOS MTSSINft'
Merman Claim to Have Shot
Down 11 Aircraft Hahr'a
Army Pushes Advance.
LosnoN, Sept. 23. Notable achieve
ments by the flylm corps of both Brit
ish nnd French atmlcs are set forth In
to-night's olllclil stntiments from the
two War Offlre;. British c.ipttir.i of
German trenches on a half mile front
..iMt of c,itirilette, reaching tlll healer
to Bipatime, and the teacli'ng of the
lOtith'ru boundaries of Combies by
l'l nch patrols are also reported.
A concerted and successful effort by
h itli allies to Interfere scuously with the
Conn. in communication behind the
'ionun front and in other places is re
vjaled by the official statements, llall
wiy stations, train', arodromi nnd
'lur military jKilnts wero bombed.
Many German machines were destroyed
r tlrlvtn down, evidently unable to pre
vent the allied attacks. On Friday
French aviators fought a total of fifty
six fights In the air.
Klft- Machines In tlaU.
The British statement tells of one of
the greatest u!r raids .yet reported, In
which fifty aeroplanes participated. It
follows :
"There was very great aerial activity
yesterday. A highly successful raid by
about fifty of our machines was carried
out on an Important railway Junction,
where much damage was done, two
trains containing ammunition being do
strojed and many violent explosions be
ing caused. A number of other raids on
enrmy railway works and sidings, nero
dromes and other points of military Im
portance were cqujly successful.
"In addition many fights occurred In
the air. In the course of which three hos
tile machines were destrocit ami five
others driven to earth damaged, besides
many others which broke off the fight
and were seen to descend steeply, but
could not be watched to the gtound as
our machines were too busily engaged.
Five of our machines ate missing."
I'lf(-lx ' Im Is for French.
The French statement f rll ex
ploits says:
"On the Homme front French aviators
delivered durlnc the day of September
22 a total of flfty-slx aerial combats. As
a result of this activity four enemy aero
planes were destroed, while four others
were keen falling disabled.
"We could not, however, follow the
fall of these machines to the ground, hut
It U kiin.Mi that two of them were com
pelled to make ,i lauding. In the course
of these tlht Adjt. l'ornte destroyed
his eleventh Herman aeroplane at a
point to the Miuth of Gojancotut. whin
Lieut. DeulU'i bmiight down his seventh
machine to the n,nth cf Doing'
"Adjt. Tiiiuscon destrird hi" sixth
emmy machine to th southwest of
llorsny, The fourth German machine
imported de"tio)ul crushed lo the ground
at a point southwest of Itoequlnny.
"In the m;lo,i of Verdun, Adjutant
Lenoir attacked ,c Herman aeroplane at
very r'oec qu.uteiH, and brought down
his opponent within the Herman Hues
at a point north of Dotiaumont. This
' makes ttii tentu enemy machine de.
' stroyed up to the present time by Adju
tant Lenoir
lloinbnrdlillt III lleliclnlll.
"Fiench aviators engaged In throwing
bombs also hive illsplneil great activity
'along the entire front. In Belgium one
of our tilers has thrown flown four lrinl
, on the barracks In the forest of Ilauth
ulot. In the region of the Somme a de
tachment of sixteen Flench aviators
have bombarded the railroad stations of
I Fins. Hpehy and Itoselet, and also the
aviation ground nt Hervllly,
"1'pon these four points eight shells
i of 120 millimeters were thrown down.
To the northeast of Holi-sons an nutomo-
! bllo station of the enemy received twenty
' shells.
"Al rturin the night of September
22-23, a French dirigible bombarded the
I railroad tracks In the region of Mar
coIiik, to the southeast of C.imhra',"
The nllled infantry gains, though not
large, wore valuable. The Brltleh push
forward east of Courcelette Is at the
point where the lliitlth line comes near
i est to llapaume, tho main nbjectlv The
I Herman trenches captured were strongly
' fortified. Some prisoners were taken.
About Combies, the French infantry
fiatrols that arc being sent forward to
get the luy of the Inlid before It la at
tempted to storm the town got into the
outskirts and cncJured one officer nnd
fifteen men. Lnt-t night both annlis
extended their positions n little, the
Britleh War Office announcing, "south
of the Anere wo continued to improve
our iiosltloiiH, pushing detachments for
ward at places Into the enemy'.! ad
vanced trenches."
Another Attack Indicated.
The French are preparing for another
nttack on their front f-outli of the
Somme. it Is Indicated. Their artillery
about louchavesnes and Belloy-en-San-terre
and Berny was very active. The
British artillery was unusually cffectlvo
yesterday. During the night It blew up
nn ammunition dump east of Bethnne,
nnd of later accomplishments the War
Office says:
"During a bombardment by our ar
tillery of ono section of the enemy's
front yesterday ten hostile gun pita were
seen to be destroyed, fourteen others
severely damaged and Ave ammunition
VlLs blown up."
The German statement follows:
"Western Theatie, Army Group of
Crown Prince Hupprecht of Bavaria
North of dm SOmmct the battle was re
sumed, After a continually Increasing
artillery fire tho French attacked our
Combles-Ilancourt line. They achieved
no success whatever. Neither did the
British, who attempted to advance near
Courcelette,
"A t-upplementnry report stateH that
during the night of Thursday "English
local nttacks near Mntiquet Farm and
Courcelette were repulsed.
"In aerial fighting north of the Sommo
we shot down eleven enemy machines."
FIRE SWEEPS PHCENIX, N. Y.
Indications Art- That l Will )t
alroy thn Village,
Htiuchhk, Sept. 21. The village, of
Phoenix, sixteen miles north of here, Is
being swept by a tire, which will prnb.
ably destroy tho entire place,
Telephone communication baa been cut
off, and fragmentary telegraph advices
say that the loss may reach $600,000.
SHOT DOWN BY A TAT HE
Winner of Medal and War
Cross Had Destroyed Four
Knemy Planes.
I
JMnta, Kept. 24. Klffln T. Rockwell,
one of the young American aviators In
the Fronch flying corps, was killed this
morning lna battle In the air with a
Herman machine on the Alsace front.
He camo from Atlanta, Oa.
Hockwell went up early In the morn
Ins nlone In a French armored battle
pki!i. Sighting a German Taube, he
went 'o attack It. He emptied his ma
chine gun magatlne apparently with
out effect. While turning to sweep
around the Taube, the German opponent
hot him In the head.
The shot killed the American Instantly
and hla aeroplane fell straight to earth.
The body was taken to a military hos
Pltsl with all honors, where It awaits
burial on Monday.
Paul Hockwell, the dead aviator's
brother, has been told to go to Alsace
on Sunday with Lieut. William Thaw,
also of the flying corps. Thaw Is here
on furlough.
Hockwell Is the second American
filer to be kilted In action, .lust three
months ago, nn June 24, Corporal Victor
Chapman of New York, also u member
of the Franoo-Amerlcan Corps, was
killed at Verdun In a battle with Her.
man aeroplanes. Soon after being ap
pointed Sergeant. Rockwell saved Chap
man during a fight with German airmen
near Verdun.
.Mother Informed of Ilia Ilea Hi.
WrNHTON-SAt.iu, N. i, Sept. 23.
News of the desth of Klflln Yates Rock
well was announced In a cablegram
from Purls received here late to-day bv
his mo'.her. Mrs. L. A. Hockwell.
Mrs, Hockwell had received a lijttet
from her son only a few hours before
the news of his death readied her. He
stated lie had a leave of absence nf
eight dsjs and had spent the time In
Puils with his brother. Paul Hockwell.
On Hie day he mailed the letler he was
lenclng for the front and said he hail
been transferred from Verdun lo a more
active sector ,-
Klflln and hit brother Paul went lo
Europe In August, IS14, soon after the
nil' began. Both volunteered for ser
vice in ttie French army. Paul was
wounded severely during the first winter
wMIe serving In the trenrhea. He later
obtained his discharge and Is now a war
corretindent for American newspapers.
He shot llnnn Kunr Aeroplanes.
Klffln V. Hockwell was a .srrgeaut at
tached to the American Kscadrllle of
the h'lein i llitig coips He had been
rvlng with the Fiench army since
September 30, 114. Only two Wfeks
ago he sucr, eded ill bringing down hi"
fourth Herman aeroplane over the Ver
dun front.
The French mlllt.iiy medal and war
cros with ii.ilni win awarded Buck
wrl l.i. e l,it June for bringing down a
Heiuiau aeroplane on May is and at
tacking -eveial Herman machines on
Ma) 2 when severely wounded In the
face, lie had been mentioned In official
reports as "a hold and courageous pilot."
Befote Joining the aviation rorps
ltisl.well for eight months In the
tletii'hes with the Foreign Legion. He
was wounded at Arras In May of last
ear and after rrcocery Joined the avia
tion Kirps. On .May lu, IMS. he brought
down the tli; Herman aeroplane lie ever
iiud s,.,.n killing gunner and idiot at
thirty yanls and narrowly missing a
collision,
llrro of ThrlllliiK Air Halite.
In Ju;y Hockwell and Not man Prince,
another of th American aviator,
foucht a thrilling .1 r battle with three
Herman aviators behind the Hermuii
lines.
Hockwell dived under one machine and
tried to ut off Its tall. His mitrail
leuse raked the German machine, but
after more manofiivrlng Hockwell found
himself suddenly facing the Herman ma
chine gun, over which the operator was
bent Hockwell looked again and saw
the operator was ilf.nl. whereupon he
brought down the aeroplane.
17 BELGIANS PUT TO DEATH.
'i'i Condemned aa Spies Include
Three Women and Two (ilrla,
Amsterpam, via London, Sept. 23.
Desiiatches from .Maastricht, Holland,
to-day say that seventeen persons have
been executed as a result of recent trials
at llasselt, Belgium, on the charge of
espionage,
In all twenty-two persons were con
demned to death, among them four
priests, three women and two young
girls.
A despatch on Tuesday said that of
sixty-two suspects tried at Maastricht
twenty-two had been condemned to
death. M. Golenvaux, Burgomaster of
Namur, was said to have been one of
them.
"HOLLAND'S HUMILIATION."
Agrrrmrnt to Investigate Tnbantla
Caa After War So Termed.
Tub Hauuk, Sept. 33 (via London).
It Is announced officially that the
Dutch Government has agreed to Ger
many's proposal to submit the rase of the
Dutch steamship Tubantla to an Inter
national committee of Investigation after
the war.
The .Vfeiiirc Coureist characterizes the
agreement ns a humiliation for Holland,
The Dutch Government has prohibited
the export of cattle. All preserves con
taining meat also will come under the
prohibition.
I BOMB SETTER FOUND GUILTY
Cunvlrtril of Murder of Woman In
Nan Francisco I'nrailr.
San Fhancihco, Sept. 23. Warren K.
Billings, tried here for the murder of
Mrs. Myrtle Van Loo, one of tho ten
persons killed by the explosion of n
bomb during Hie San Francisco pre
paredness parade July 22, was to-day
found guilty of murder In the llrst de
gree. The Jury recommended llfo Im
prisonment. Billings will be sentenced Tuesday.
The Jury was out Just four hours. Most
of that time was spent at luncheon at u
cafe. The Jury reported almost I
dlately after returning to the hall of
Justice,
GARMENT CUTTERS'
UNION IS ENJOINED
Justice uy Forbids Efforts to
Interfere With Employ
ees' Contracts.
Justice Guy handed down a decision
touching upon labor disorders yesterday
when ho granted a permanent Injunction
to Jesse Woolf nnd Otto H. Shulof to lu
strain the Amalgamated Ladles Har
ment Cutteis Association, Local No. 10,
from Interfering with the firm's em
ployees or the conduct of their business
"by threats, violence or other unlawful
methods."
Woolf nnd Shulof had asked the court
to make permanent an Injunction against
Alexander Block, president, nnd Samuel
Besser, Measurer of the union, to re
strain them from ttjlng to Interfere
with the contracts made between the em
ployers and twelve members of the
union, and from "endeavoring to coerce
union members to violate such contracts
by strikes, threats or otherwise."
"While there Is no dliect proof of
Illegal acts performed by members of the
union or with the sanction of Its offi
cers." said Justice Hity, "the proof CHtab
llshes that for a consider able period there
existed an organized and persistent In
terference with practically the entire
body of the plaintiff's employees, accom
panied by threats. Intimidation and vio
lence, and with the uppurcnl purpose of
making the strike ordered by the union
more eiTectlvc, This is u condition of
affairs which a e-ourt of equity will not
tolerate.
"The law regards as of special sanc
tity, as the very basis of our jfree Institu
tions, the rUtht of freedom of contract of
each citizen, nnd courts of equity will
exercise their fullest power to jirotcct
Individual cltlieus, whether employers or
employees, in the exercise nf this right."
In the decltlon Justice Guy points out
that the contracts In this case were en
tered Info by the plaintiffs In contraven
tion of the obligations of membership In
the unl"ii nj In rnntrnveiitlnn of a Joint
agreement entered Into by the union with
a mutiufiutiiiers' association, of which
Woolf and Shulof were members. Woolf
and Shulof later withdrew from this as
sociatloii of tnanufactiireis and paid cut
ters 125 a week Instead of t27.!0, hold
ing out iZ.ZO n week until the end of the
year, when they said they were going to
give the employees the amount held out
In s lump sum.
AMERICAN PRIEST IS
BARRED BY ENGLAND
rather KhiiIhi's (icrman Name
liaises Objection to His (So
iny to West Indies.
' The annotincemer.t In a Iflngston,
Jamalcj, newspaper of the transfer of
i the Hev. I'manuil k'ouh.i, S. ,t., to St.
Patrick's Cathedral, Kingston, for mis
sionary servhe eausul the British Gov
ernment to Mid a request to th pio
vliK'lal of die Jesuit order lure that
I Father Kouh.i's depititilie be postponed
pending Investigation.
Word has been terened that England
objects to Father Kouhn became he bears
a Herman name. Toe British Govern
ment refused to accept an ofllclal Wash
' n.gton document showing that Father
Koub.i was born In New York city.
, To avoid dlllh'Ultii'H the name of Father
I'rendergast of St Peter's College, Jersey
City, was substituted.
I There arc at ptesent several priests of
the Jesuit Order stationed In the Woi-t
Indies who bear Herman names. He
lens to have these priests reunited from
the islands h.ie been made by the Brit
ish Government.
Bishop Collins, who was nt one tlmo
picsldent of Foidhaui Fnlveislty, has. the
supervision ,,f the Joult mission In the
West lndlns.
POSTMASTERS WIN REWARDS.
Two llecrtvr g.l Hitch for Obtaining
Army Hermits.
Washinoton. Sept. 23. The first re
wards of 15 for regular army ircrultlng
secured by postmaster under the new
national defence net, the War Depart
ment announced tn-dny, have been paid
to Postmasters William J. O'Donley,
Utlcn, Okla., and Joseph M.i Sitmiin,
Hreensburg, La.
War Oepartnient officials frankly de
scribed the new recruiting system as
"the last gasp nf volunteer enlistments."
They pointed out that In giving a I.",
premium to postmnsteis for each recruit
the Government has made a supreme cf
fort to obtain Its soldiers without re
sorting to compulsory training.
They predicted that should the plan to
fill the enlarged regular army fall It wi'l
become necessary to adopt universal
training or some system of compulsory
Hervlce.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX .SECTIONS,
AS FOLLOWS:
Pages
Auto-
FIRST
General
New,
mobiles
SECOND Sporting. Kenneli . .
THIRD -News of Society,
School. Fashions, Gar
dens. Rn! F.itate, Drama
FOURTH Pictorial Magjiine . .
FIFTH SpecisI Festure Section .
SIXTH Editoriil. Foreign, Books,
Queries, Financial, Prob
lems, Chess ....
Total
60
Rtedtn or r.tutJtakrs uho Jo not rt.
(itte oil of thtst iittlont uiU conftr a
jttot an " The Sun" h rtotlfylnt tho Put
Utolhn Department ot onto y J phono
J200 Beekmon) enJ mtulnt teettont
UiU it promptly torwariei tj poutU.
CAR LINES EXTEND 1
SERYICE AT NIGHT,
Seventh Avenue and Broadway
Operate Lull in Strike
Violence.
Night service on the surface lines of
Manhattan waa extended last night to
Seventh avenue and Broadway. The
crosstown cars which were started on
Monday night wero sent out again In
larger numbers.
Along Seventh avenue eight cars were
run from Flfty-nfnth street to Greenwich
avenue. Broadway had fifteen cars from
Fifty-ninth lo Houston street. These
were on the green car system. On the
Third Avenue Hallway Company's lines
four cars were operated along upper
Broadway.
The two major traction companies
Increased their service at night without
having to cut down the number of cars
operated In the day. On the New York
and Queens and the Union systems the
volume of tratllc was us largo us on
previous days of tne strike. The sub
way and elevated operated as many
trains and on the same general sched
ule as Saturday a Wessk ago.
With (Tumors of Impenalng walkouts
in many trades the responsibilities of
the Police Department became greater,
although no more strikes were declared
Over In Brooklyn, for Instance, the B.
rt. T. called for additional protection
for its employees, fearing attempts
would be made by Manhattan strikers to
Influence them. Headquarters had to
send eighty extra patrolmen over the
river, although the alarm was without
foundation.
In Staten island too the Richmond
Light and Power Company became un
easy over the demands made by Us
motormen and conductors, and late In
the afternoon a large squad of automo
biles waa sent across the bay with
chauffeurs In case of an emergency.
Labor meetings scheduled for to-day
will call for many policemen. The union
teamsters will gather In 301 West Twenty-fifth
street, the .Socialists In Madison
Square Garden for a ratification meet
ing and also for the discussion of labor
topics the piano movers In 587 Third
avenue, the horse slioers in 214 Kast
Forty-first street, the drivers for prod
uce merchants In Washington Hall, "SI
Klghth avenue. ; the Pavers Union In
229 Kast Forty-seventh street. Other
meetings will be In 43 Broadway, Flush
ing; 1H9 Wllloughby avenue and at Irv
ing und Columbia streets, Brooklyn.
One hundred men on the eligible list
of tho civil service who might hava
waited for je.irs uefoir getting on the
police force, reported yesterday at Head
quartets and found they prnbibly will be
drafted as special policemen. Two hun
dred mor will show up to-morrow morn
ing. At the same time Police Commis
sioner Arthur Woods made, it plain that
he does not look for organised disorder
In this city. He said the dally reports
from the precincts confirm his belief that
the strikers "as a bod" are peaceful
anil w'sli to discourage disturbances.
BRITISH NEED 1,000,000 MORE.
I. I Curt In Saa Victor Depends
on I'nrllier Cnnacrlutlon.
J LovnoN, Sept. :.!. J L. Cirvln. wilt-
iu cue nB.seirrr, or wnicn ne Is
editor, asserts another million men are
essential for the army "if Great Britain
Is going to win the war, as It means to."
Special cnble despatches to TlIK Si'.v
In Thursday's Issue showed Hie strength
of the movement for further conscription
in Great Britain. Col. Hepington. mill
tury expert nf the Tlmrt, was quoted us
attacking the Government for permitting
It.ooo.noo to l.ooo.ooo men of military
age to find shelter In Government em
ploy and other occupations and t.ild that
compulsory seivlce should be extended to
Ireland. The pally Mnll suggested r.ils
Ing the age limit from 41 to 4.1 years nnd
said 1,2.10,000 physically fit men have
not ibeen diafted from exempted occu
pations. A Parliamentary committee headed
by Austin Chamberlain nnd numbering
several Labor M. P.'s his been appointed
to Investigate the situation and try to
find a remedy.
AUTOPED DECK SPINS BARRED.
Gerlle Mlllnr, fining lo Rnropr, Has
to Leave "Mnchlnrrr" Behind.
The Americnn liner St. Paul sailed for
Liverpool yesterday with Mrs. William
K Corey, fnrmerlv Mnhel Gllman. occu
pying one of the first cabins. Mrs. Corey
Intended to go to London, and from there
to her chateau near Paris, which has
ne-en turueu into a hospital for French
wounded.
Another passenger was Gertie Millar,
the London musical comedy star, who Is
returning to London to appear In a new
production. "Whoop-la." The actress ar
rived at the pier with two autopeds, on
which she expected to have pleasant
spins every day on the ship's deck, but
the steamship line officials classed them
ns machinery, and as the actress did not
huve the necessary permit, she was forced
to leave them behind.
Other pnssengers were Henry C, Em
ery of the Guaranty Trust Company, the
Right Hev, G. S. Cecil de Carteret,
Bishop of Jamaica, and F. C. Wellington,
connected with the Belgian Relief Com
mission. GERMANS TO PROTEST ''TANKS.",
Will Insist Their Par la Aarnlnaf
Civilised Mrthoda.
I.ONPON, Sept. 23. An Hxchange Tel
egraph despatch from Heunvu says It Is
understood there that the German Gov
ernment proposes to lodge n complaint
with the Intel national lied Cross ngulnst
the use of the so-called "tanks" or
armored caterpillar motor trucks.
The complaint will be on the ground
that the use of these new engines of
war. which made their first appearance
In the Somme fighting l ist week, Is con
trary to recognised methods of civilised
warfara.
Original Figure of 750,000
Idle Revised by Labor
Strategists.
FltlEXDLY CONCERNS
NOW TO BE EXEMPT
"Let People Go Hungry; It
Will Do Tliem Good," One
Chief Is Quoted.
STOPPAGE OP FOOD
AND DRINK POSSIBLE
Trade Fines of $1 to $10 to
1 He Imposed on Iliders'ou
' Non-union Cars.
How extensive and far reaching the
stoppago of work by trado unionists
will be next Wednesdiy In obedience to
the order of the Orcater New York.
Labor Conference seemed yesterday to
bo a matter of guesswork on the part
both of employers nnd union leaders.
.Members of the bourd of strategy of
thn Continental conference after nn all
afternoon session admitted lust night
that tliey did not expect to have a
walkout of more than 350,000 of the
750,000 union members In the city.
Those figures made a cut of exactly
one-half or more from their boasts of
the previouH evening.
It was learned that the tactical boatd,
or sub-committee of the labor conference,
is seeking to develop a policy in ordering
a suspension of work by which tho unions
may help friendly eniplovers and hit
enemies of organized latior.
Such a scheme was Indicated vesterday
by Timothy Healey, president of the In
ternntlnnal Rrnih.,i,..i ......
I llltmrl' W" M ,,,Mt '"'"II" to t ra
p ans .bout 2,500. or one-half, of The fl,".
T.VJ. ,h9 C"y wt,lllJ 1"' ordered
' leuvc their posts next Tuesday night.
Frlenellj, fencers., tn Re H.rmpl.
,i!!)Vr. nf not ""rchlstfl," said Presi
turn rl7' "an,'!.W0 n, ,"n "" o
i il w Te' y .V,""'10 ,Iown- Tl"' or,1r t"
.ow-ehn' wl" R0,, """ '"'Ployed In
power houses and the like, but we do not
beUrrr,S,r Wr'"1 ,n' ,'fr" t '
brew-,.,fu . Un,1'"1 ""I'luVO'l In hotels.
bre oi les, Ce plants and similar places
V- do not Intend to strike ut friendly
concerns owning storage houses l avlng
vast amount of perishable goods."
th.;, tatemenl nve ,nc Impression
1.1 s riu-T "i ""0H. wouW '""'
i strike leaders and strategists to hit
the distribution of foci ,, 3 drink
i.rnet Bohm. secretary of tho C v it
gw er'ai tliSr 7"n ,',uh Krnyne of' the"
steiclaj -at the Hotel Continental, was
s vlng out the daily announcement it
?nd 11 'ed 4Ue!,,'n" bearHis on this pol
lie had Just announced nn ofllelnl bov.
c.tt on all transit lines In the " ty and a
do,.e, i reporters were gathered uhmfhlnS
of work :.,. i "ir"J." r """Pcnutin
r.'.i7ant di run,un" nolcl8'
He
"Th.' AT ,Y,ltt"7' was asked.
The- order has gone out to them."
"Let the People Co llauarr."
th ii ,"ii you lnt'nd t0 'nrfre
swlth
'i iooa ;
bacLrhl.st"Idr0,Und Sm"ln''
"Lft thf tmnni v.... .. .
hi,, ,.. . ...V; " . ""Kr ne said
..... ..... ... ..mini, -u w j
digestion trnnd." u
their
In answer to questions he said
order for the suspension of work
the
had
he nuestlon of .'wffii VI
number of local unioB ,aM Kh, "
UnranK.J'tor
In fact. President GompeV ndmlHed
that himself the other day and from t hi
anxiety written on the f.,ce, of many
of the union men gathered at the Hotel
Continental it Is plain they are " "aJerlv
awaiting the decision of thi ocVs
Secretary Bohm asserted emphal-
ft"' .hn.rv,:r' that " ni.rln
trades (n the city. Including about 4,000
men, had voted solidly In favor of
strike; that 10.000 teamsters alio had
decided to Join In the walkout and that
IXnilP flltf f rt Aii.,
strong, had likewise assented to a sym
pathetic stoppage of work. lis said
that hns!nfM ,,.ni. .......
trades will meet on Tuesday morning
lTjd0 wh"hrr they will order out
100,000 or more men.
Strike Aspect Not Favorable.
While Hugh Frnyne. chairman of the
labor conferenceand Mr. nohm were
confident that they will bring about a
paralysis of Industrial conditions In the
city, they really have, only the vote of
the longshoremen's association to leavo
the matter entirely In the hands of
President T. V. O'Connor to use his own
Judgment.
It Is not likely that President O'Con
nor will order his men out If there Is
any weakening on the part of the other
locals In the city. Fiom another sourrs
It was learned that the teamsters' locals
will vote beginning to-morrow on ths
strike question nnd send their reports tn
their headquarters at 781 F.lghth avenue.
The strategic importance of having the
longshoremen and teamsters out, union
men admit, will be In requiring thn
Police Commissioner to do a great
amount of policing along the watet front
and thui compel him to remove patrol
men from the transit lines The tleup o'
the shipping also would bring preuur
on big interests who realise that the
