THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
24 PAGEb!? ypHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 24, 1916
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
24 PAGES
VOL. XXVIL, NO. 128
SRlHlIRSIFS BROUGHT WW I LONDON Mi
II ZEPPELIN FULLS IN FLIES
AND ANOTHER BELIEVED TO HAVE
DROPPED ON COAST OF ESSEX
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Another attempt by German airships to attack London has resulted in
the loss of at least one raider. A second airship is reported to have fallen
on the coast of Essex, but the official statement from London says the re
port is not confirmed.
The raider brought to grief fell in flames in the southern part of the
County of Essex and probably not far from London. This is the second at
tempted raid on London within three weeks. The official report mentions
no casualties or damages.
British forces in France continue their progress toward Bapaume.
Troops of General Haig have gained ground east of Courcelette. A strongly
fortified German trench system on a front of half a mile east of Cource- ,
lette was carried by the British. Troops of Crown Prince Rupprecht of Ba
varia attempted to penetrate the British line near the Mouquet farm be
tween Courcolette and Thiepval, but were beaten off, London says. Ber
lin denies the British were successful in the attack east of Courcelette.
Repulse of a French attack on the Combles-Rancourt line is recorded
by Berlin. The French, according to Paris, continue their tactics of harass
ing t!ie German salient around Combles.
The battle in Dobrudja has begun anew. Berlin reports Russians and
Rumanians failed to make headway. Ono attack was made on the rinht
wing of the central powers southwest of Toprai Sari and the other was on
the left wing near the C "lube. An unconfirmed report by way of Rome says
that Field Marshal von Mackensen continues to retreat and the fortress of
Sil. stria has been abandoned by his troops.
Rumanian attacks in Transylvania continue and Berlin reports the re
pulse of two Rumanian divisions on both sides of Hermannstadt. The Aus-tro-Germans
also have re-captured Vulcan pass. Petrograd records the re-'
pulse of infantry assaults, after gas attacks, southwest of Lako Narocz and
Berlin reports that Russian attacks near Korynitza, in Volhynia, failed.
Bulgarians have taken entente trenches between Fiorina and Lake Pres
ba in Macedonia and have repulsed attacks in the Vardar region. On the
Belasca planina the. entente forces, according to Berlin, have evacuated the
territory southward to Krusa-Balkan. .
Austrian attacks in the Carso reaion were checked by the Italians,
Tome reports. Italian trenches on Hill 208, south of Novastas, were pene
trated, but the attackers were driven out later. Austrian attempts against
Hill 144, northeast of Monfalcone also were repulsed.
Phoenix Visited By Two Hundred Mining Engineers
ON LAST PART
OF LONE IIP
SINCE SLAVERY, LIQUOR GREATEST EVIL
BAY STATE WRECKED
HER PASSENGERS SAFE
PORTLAND, Me., Sept. 23.
The Bay State, which today was
wrecked off Cape Elizabeth to
night was full of water and hard
on the rooks. It was thought it I
would be only a question of time
before she went to nieces. Her I
1 estimated value is $350,000. The
T ISC passengers on board were I
i taken off safely in small boats. I
. a
Probably Two Lost
in the sky, and 10 seconds later
flames were obesrved creeping along
'broui-.h't down during a raid over the the top of the airship until it became
eastern counties of England and the a mass of flames. - Before the final
outskirts of Umdon last night, nc-cras, the ajrsi,ip was seen to stand
25g StrVn WW then dash to the
voitheni pirt of Essex and it is re- j ground head foremost.
IM.rted another fell on the Essex ;
coast. I In the last raid by German airships
No report of casualties or damage , over England three weeks ago a
have been received. I Zeppelin was brought down 'in the
The text of the statement follows: I London district. The crew of the
.An attack by hostile airships was Zeppelin was killed and later buried
made on Lincolnshire and the eastern near the yot where the airship de
counties and on the outskirts of Lon- ; amended in flames.
dun. The latter attack was made!
from the northeast and the southeast; Switzerland Says Inopportune
about midnight and was beaten off, GENEVA (Via Paris) Sept. 24. The
by our ami-aircran aeitnse. sswiss government in replying to sev-
CROSS BORDER
SOLDIERS FACE
INVESTIGATION
"One airship was brought down in. p..,! nptitinns that it intprvenp. in fav-
f lames in southern part of Essex and or cf peace, officially states that it
reply has been received that another j considers the moment inopportune and
fell on the Essex coast. The latter that any intervention would have ho
re.M.rt hitherto is unconfirmed. chance of being taken into considcra-
"No reports of casualties or damage ti w ,h i n i to a a,tir,.,
have yet been received." j ln thi Kense it adds would even Pressed themselves as pleased with
risk being considered by the entente
:s an inimical gesture.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTON hi, Texas, Sept. 23
An investigation will be made of the
act of eight members of the Texas
cavalry who yesterday crossed the
Kio jrande into Mexico near Rio
Dosa and were fired upon by Mexi
cans. Colonel Malvern Hillbarnum
chief of staff to General Punston,
made this announcement tonight and
added that If the action of the guards
men was not justified, they would be
tried and punished
News of the crossing was trans
mitted to General Funston in a dis
patch from Colonel J. A. Gaston, at
Marfa, received after the general's
return from Austin. Colonel Gaston
said that Corporal Rogers of Troop
12 and seven men, forming the pxtrol
at Rio Dosa, crossed to Mexican
soil yesterday. He did not state the
reason. The Americans were fired
upon by ten Mexicans and one of the
troopers lost his horse.
Colonel Gaston did not mention any
return fire, but it ih believed here
that Corporal Rogers' men probably
shot at the Mexicans.
General Funston and his staff ex
The millers apparently did noil
come po near to London as on the
occasion of the destruction of the
L-21 on September 3. The sound of
gun, fire was fainter when the distant
reports of anti-aircraft weapons
shortly after midnight heralded the.
fiporoaeh of the raiders. Observers
on the roofs and bridges of the city,
hi -sever, were treated to quite a
pyrotechnic display of shrapnel burst
in? around a Zeppelin visible in the
sky. seemingl somewhere In the re
mote outskirts of London.
This specta "le was of short dura
tion, .is the Zeppelin made off. find
ing the reception too hot and the
sound of the cannonade quickly died
away.
Instant flash" in the cl;y never
theless indicated that the conflict
had not vet finished, and it was an
hour Inter shortly after 1 o'clock in
the morning that the Associated
Press observer on a city bridge, saw
n smell cirrar-like object suddenly
burst into glow on the eastern hori
zon. There w:is no vivid flame light
Ins I'n (he sky, as on September 3.
but th crowd of on-lookers, still
taking a sporting interest In the
visitation despite the lateness of the
hour, took it for granted that an
other Zeppelin had met its doom and
enthusiastically cheered the prowess
of the defenders.
Some waited to see if other raiders
would fan victims, but there was no
further disti'ibance of the now peace
ful star-lit sky, and Londoners quiet
ly returned to their beds, confident
that they would awaken in the morn
ing to find official confirmation that
the protend they had witnessed in
the heavens wns the destruction of
a Zeppelin.
According to a correspondent, a
minute before midnight information
was telephoned from the southeastern
distrW t that bombs had been dropped
by the riding airships. Another mes
sage shortly after 1 o'clock described
bembs drooping simultaneously by
two airships.
Almost the fame moment hearty
cheering was announced from an
eastern direction, which was repeated
by Ijondoners as the people clearly
sa,v an airship descending in flames
some miles to the eastward.
correspon deal in eastern district,
te'eplmning later. sa'd a profound
xilenco followed the gun fire after
midnight: then a red spark was seen
Executed for Espionaoe
AMSTERDAM. Sept. 23. (Via Lon
don) Press dispatches from Maast
richt, Holland, today s'iy that seven
tern persons already have leen exe
cuted as a result of recent trials at
Ilasselt, Belgium, on the charge of
espionage. In all twenty-two persons
vere condemned to death, among them
four priests,
young girls.
the conditions of the members of the
12ih provisional division, the arrival
of which at Austin, ftiey witnessed
today. The general and his party re
turned by automiiile from the state
capital late this afternoon
DRY NOMINEE
SMS RE RAS
HI ISSUES
CONFERENCES MA Y BE
CONCLUDED THIS WEEK
Showing the strain of his terrific
and almost nation-wide campaign, J,
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW LONDON. Conn.. Sept. 23.
Decision as to whether the American
Mexican joint commission shall con
tinue its conference after next week
has been left to Ambassador-designate
Arredondo, -epresenting Mexico
and William Phillips, third assistant
secretary of state, it was learned to
day. It will be necessary to move
because the hotel where the sessions
Frank Hanly, prohibition's nominee for I have been held here will close Octo
Arrest Villa Agents
EL PA.SO, Texas, Sept. 23. Ameri
can military authorities here say
that thev have been reliably informed
that Villa has agents in every Car
ranzista garrison in Chihuahua, and
tnree women anu two thn, ,,.. ...rh no.onf ,..-- ,rr-0,-rt
in Juarez today, although General
Gonzales, in Juarez, denies that any
Dutch Government Aqrees
THE HAGUE (Via London) Sept
such arrests took place.
A Mexican out of Santa Tsabel to-
ii m ".uu.ui, ,tiHMun. ru ; ,lay ,a!a tnat villa, en passing
Hutch government has r.greed to Ger- through there after his attack on
many's proposal to submit the case of . Chihuahua Citv, declared he would
the Dutch steamship Tubantia to an repeat the raid within two week.
international committee of investlga- j villa was also credited with saving
tion after the end of the war. The that he felt no animosity whatever
Niemve Couri-.nt characterizes the , towarl the American Deonle.
agreement as a humiliation for Holland.
The Tubantia was Riink off the
Hohler On Vacation?
MEXICO CITV. Sept. 23. Thomas
D. Holder, British charge de'affaires
Dutch coast on March 16 last, as the here, will leave for the United States
result of on explosion. A controversy . tomorrow ostensibly for a vacation,
over the responsibility for the disaster ( It is believed among the foreign
arose between the German and Dutch i residents here, however, that he will
governments, the Dutch claiming that ; Mnf.T with the state department at
the ship had been torpedoed by a wsnhingtnn on Mexican questions in
German submarine. This was denied which British and American interests
bv Germany. ore involved.
ssis mm
ST BRING ABOUT PEACE
the presidency, last night laid before
fully 1,200 persons ln the i . M. C. A.
stadium, the issues on which his party
is seeking the ballots of the American
voters in November. A fine, upstand
ing man, sincerely attached to his
ideal, Mr. Hanly strongly impressed
his hearers, and while he did not arouse
the wild enthusiasm with which the
same audience heard William Jennings
Bryan on the same plattorm, recetnly,
he gave them a much more reasonable
message, one that was pointed later,
by his big running mate, Dr. Ira Land-
rith.
Long considered a party of one idea.
the prohibition party has come into the
battle this year to convince the peo
ple it has the only progressive ele
ments, according to Mr. Hanly. "There
was another progressive party, he
said, "but it is now an orphan."
He plunged directly into his sub
ject, without any '1 am glad to be
here's.'
He said In part:
"It has been said that the prohibition
party is a party with a single issue
that it has but one idea. If that were
true it might well be that it is the
party in this campaign that ought to
receive your vote, for a single idea may
be so big, may so Involve the welfare
of the people that it alone would justi
fy the existence of a political party
and your support of that party.
"But I am here to disabuse your
minds concerning that. The prohibi
tion party stands for a broad, compre
hensive program in behalf of the social
walfare, the economic prosperity and
the civic happiness of the American
people.
"It stands for woman suffrage, not
as an expedient, not as a man accepts
his fate because it is inevitable, but
because It believes the ballot to be wo
man's just right and due. It stands
for her enfranchisement as it would
stand for the enfranchisement of men
it they were disinherited of their poli
tical rights. It believes in government
administered by the people, and it be
lieves women are people, clothed with
all the rights, natural and inherent.
with which men are clothed. The pro
hibition party stood for womvi suff
rage when it cost it votes to stand for
it, when it lost its prestige, when wo
men needed a champion.
"It fights your battle in another di
rection. It is -Irrevocably opposed to
and seeks the destruction of the great
est enemy women ever knew, an enemy
that for 6,000 years has entangled its
gnarled and knotted fingers in her
heart-strings.
"The prohibition party stands for
reasonable military preparedness. It
believes our shores should be protected
from foreign invasion. It believes in
a navy great enough to protect our
rights on land and on sea, but it does
not believe in militarism. It knows the
peril of that. It knows that militarism
and freedom are Incompatible, here.
abroad, and everywhere,
"The prohibition party stands for the
establishment of a world court. We of
fer the good offices of this republic to
the establishment of a world court
with power, with authority to adjudge
controversies between nations.
"We stand for a world police force
great enough to enforce the decree of
that great international court.
The prohibition party stands for a
national non-partisan tariff commis
sion. It' believes the people have a
right to know the basis of every tariff
schedule made. It stands for trade
reciprocity the reciprocity of James G.
Blaine and of William McKinley. It is
willing to accept anU put in force the
last message that fell from his own
great hps.
"The prohibition party believes In the
Monroe doctrine. This new world is
the heritage of free men and free wo-
ber 1. Atlantic City, Lakewood, White
Sulphur Springs and Garden City are
among the places suggested.
An early termination of the con
ference could be reached if the Amer
ican commissioners wore willing to
agree to the chief desire of General
'arranza's representatives, which is
the withdrawal from Chihuahua 'of
the American troops, but the Ameri
can commissioners have made it clear
that any agreement must be based
on the conviction that conditions
warranted the change.
The net results of the three week's
conference is that the Americans have
addeu greatly to their store of in
formation relative to Mexican affairs.
and that they have endeavored to
convince the Mexican representatives
that whatever the United States has
done with regard to Mexico was not
done because of selfish motives.
General Carranza's objection to
continued discussion of Mexico's in
ternal affairs has net prevented a
somewhat exhaustive study of Gen
eral conditions and it is not expect
ed the Mexican representatives will
object to their further discussion next I
week.
Both the Mexican and American
representatives are watching with in
terest threatened change in condi
tions in Chihuhua, as a result of re
newed activity by the Villa forces.
It was indicated today that con
tinued growth of the new bandit
movement might be made the basis
for the argument that instead of tak
ing the American troops out of Mex
ico they be used in co-operation with
Mexican troops to run down the raid
ing forces. It became known that
already there has been some discus
sion of such co-operation.
INDIA IS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
AMSTERDAM, Sept. 23 (via London)
The Berlin Tages Zeitung today ridi
cules Prince Alexander of Hohenlohe's
recent article in the Neue Zuricher
Zeitung in which he reported to have
crime to the conclusion that Pope Bene
dict and President Wilson must bring
about peace if general European bank
ruptcy is to be avoided, and also ex
pressed the belief that a cessation of
Western Federation Man ,
Whipped and Ordered Away
republican A. P. Leased Wire i bor, objected to the attempts of West
COPPEKIHLL, Tenn., Sept 23 Guy era Federation of Mines to gain con-
E. Miller, of Denver, organizer for'trol of the labor situation in the cop-
ti'e Western Federation of Miners,
vas seized by n mob as he returned
from meet'inr? near here today and
was taken to the outskirts of the town
whipped, and ordered to leave.
J. A. Jones. Miller's local assistant,
was taken from his room in a hotel,
marched through the streets at the
head of a crowd and forced to swear
that he would leave town on the next
train. He left.
The trouble trose when citizens and
members of trades nntons affiliated
with the American Federation of La-
per fields near here. Miller had led
the eflort to organize the mine work
ers in opposition to the United Mine
Workers of America, who have been
supported by what is said to be a
majority cf business men in the Ten
nessee copper fields. Miller was ad
dressing a meeting in Isabella, when a
mob of almost 200 men brought uo
the session and violently ejected him
from" the town.
The company later discharged all of
their employes" who were believed to
have joined the Western Federation.
American supplies of munitions to the
allies would be followed mechanically
by the cessation of the war.
The Tages Zeitung makes the article
a basis for a new attack upon Presi
dent Wilson and Ambassador Gerard.
pointing out what it declares to have
been the repeated declarations of the
president. Secretary of State Lansing
and the ambassador, that "the duty of
the United States is to interfere as a
mediator and participate in the peace
negotiations not as a mediator but ac
tively, just as one of the belligerents."
The newspaper declares that this at
titude menaces Germany, and con
tinues
Peace under American auspices
could never be a German peace, but
would contain in itself German depen
dence upon the united States and
therewith upon our enemies."
Major Moraht in the Berliner Tage
blatt speaks of the fighting on the
homme as raging to and fro. and con
tinues:
"Something in this may perhaps
cnange the course or things during th
autumn or winter but at present wc
must reckon with a continuation of the
struggle The enemy is still standing.
U America, the coolly calculating tiro
moter of all the resistance, does not
desist from this bloody business, then
only a victory of the central powers
can bring the enemy to a recognition
that the endless continuation of the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind.. SeDt. 23. In
ianapolis put on a red and yellow
reas of fire tonight to welcome
harles I-i Hughes. His special rolled
nto the station half an hour ahead of
cheduled time and the celebration
pon which republicans here have
spent days of preparation Was on
They met him with a bedlam of
cheers, yells, factory whistles End au
tomobile sirens. They lighted their
fire works and plastered a patch of
flaming red on the, Indiana sky. They
tood by the tens of thousands ln the
streets and cheered him along the
ay. Most of the time thev could not
see him for the smoke, but they knew
e was mere, with Charles V. Fair
banks, his running mate, in one of the
first nutomobiles and they shot up
more rockets and burned more red fire
nd made more smoke and cheered
some more.
Scores of flag-bedecked automobiles
wung Into line behind the nominee's
ar for the parade through the citv to
Tomlir.son hall. Behind the cars came
the men on foot, thousand of torch
hearing marchers. Republican leaders
wno staged the big demonstration
said that the line of marehors ex
tended for more than 2 miles.
The streets around the station and
along the line of march were choked
y throngs the like of which the
nominee has not met nnywhere since
he day he started on his presidential
campaign. Blue coats by the hun-
reds kept the way clear.
Mr. Hughes' voice was almost gone'
(Continued on Page Twelve)
o
Dutch Mailboat
"Taken by Germans
Is Soon Released
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Sept. 23. The Dutch
mail steamer Prinz Hendrik. which
let't Flushing this morning for London
having on board a number of Rus
sians, French, Belgians and British
Including some escaped war prisoners,
was captured 20 miles out from
Flushing by the Germans and taken
to Zeebrugge, where approximately
nair or ner sixty-four passengers
were taiien on.
Several Americans were aboard th
steamer, including Herbert C. Hoover,
chairman of the American commis
sion for Belgian relief, but these were
not molested in any way. The steam
er was later released and returned to
Flushing. It will proceed for Lon
uon eiunaay. Heavy mails were
aboard, among them much from
America. According to the latest ad
vices the American mail was not
touched.
One report saya a submarine made
struggle In Europe only serves to ben- ne capture, another says that the
eflt these laughing heirs to Europe." merman crarr. was a destroyer.
GREETS HUGHES
WITH F REDRESS
1
IN DEFENSE OF
E bHT HOUR LAW
(Continued on Page Five)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONG BRANCH, N. J., Sept 23.
Today President Wilson actively
opened his campaign for re-election
with a speech replying to republican
criticism of his settlement of the re
cently threatened railroad strike. With
emphatic gestures, before a large
crowd assembled at Shadow Lawn, he
defended the eight hour day and de
clared also that the nation must be
freed from the possibility of interfer
ence with its commerce. Business men
from various parts of New Jersey in
terrupted the president with hand
clapping and cheering.
"The chief cloud that is upon the
domestic horizon is the unsatisfactory
relations of capital and labor," the
president said, "adding that "so long
as labor and capital stand antagon
istic the interests of both are injured
and the prosperity of America is held
back from the triumphs which are
legitimately its own."
Mr. Wilson spoke of the bright fu
ture for American business and then
launched directly into a discussion of
the railroad situation. Without direct
ly mentioning Charles E. Hughes, the
republican nominee, the president
brought in the republican party by
saying that about seventy republicans
supported the eight hour law in the
house of representatives and senate re
publicans pit no obstacle in the way
oi me passage or the labor bill..
"This was because the proposal was
reasonaoie ana was based upon the
right," asserted Mr. Wilson.
The president met the arguments
(Continued on Page Three)
TRACTION
LI
N
IN
STRIKE ARE DECLARED UNFAIR
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Sept. 23. Traction
lines of New York, upon which a
strike has been in progress since
September 6, were officially placed
upon the unfair list today by the
conference of labor leaders which
yesterday called for a suspension of
work by approximately 600,000 work
ers to aid the striking carmen. Ar
rangements have been made to picket
tli subway, elevated and surface
lines, it was announced, for the pur
pose of "discovering the patrons."
Penalties lor ruling upon these
lines will be imposed on members of
unions by their respective organiza
tions, it was stated by Ernest Bohm.
secretary of the central federated
union.
The proposal to suspend . work Is
based by labor leaders upon the con
tention that union men have no right
to ride upon cars operated by strike
breakers, and protected by policemen.
They assert, in addition, that' by
using such means of transportation
they are menacing their personal
safety.
Members of the labor conference,
which is said to represent eighty
unions in Greater New York con
tinued their plans today to put the
sympathetic strike into effect at 8
o'clock next Wednesday morning.
Several of the leaders issued state
ments ir. which thej' said individual
unions were signifying their endorse
ment cf the conference acton and
predicting a wide spread tie up of the
city s Industries.
One faction of trade unionism,
however, is said to hold to the belief
that the proposed "suspension of
work" would constitute repudiation
and abrogation of satisfactory con
tracts which were signed in many
cases after long and difficult negotia
tions. Under existing contracts, a strike
would he impossible in the building
trades of the city, and in the allied
printing trades, and several others,
it was said.
An injunction was issued by the
supreme court here today restraining
local officers . of the Amalgamated
Garment Cutters Association from
calling out on strike members of the
union who have individual contracts
with employers. The court also for
bade acts of violence, threats or
intimidation.
About 200 of the most prominent
mining engineers In the world, mem'
bers of the American Institute of Min
ing Engineers, arrived In Phoenix last
evening, on the last end of their Ari
zona meeting.
The Hotel Adams, their headquar
ters during the short time they spent
here, was the center of one of the
most notable of the many notable
gatherings which it has been the pleas-
Iure of that hotel to house. The dis
tinguished guests, started to arrive in
auius, coming in over me Apai:rie irau
at about 6:30, from then on until g
o clock, machines rolled in on regular
scehdule.
Although the trip from Globe, was
one of dust punctuated only with desert
and mountain trails, it was perhaps en
joyed more by the engineers, than any
other leg of their 6,000 mile journey.
The long overland trip served to tell
the story of Arizona's untold wealth,
better than a hundred lectures or a mil
lion letters could possibly do. Every
one was dusty and dirty, when they ar
rived at the Adams, but tickets to the
Arizona club, and the Y. M. C. A. baths
son livened things up, and in a few
minutes streams of men converging at
the two institutions were to be seen.
The members of the party were wel
comed at the Adams, by a committee
appointed by the chamber of commerce,
Everything was done to make the vis
itora welcome, and to demonstrate that
there is such a thing as real Arizona
hospitality.
Many of the members of the party
expressed their surprise at the size
and apparent prosperity evidenced in
Phoenix, and congratulated the recep
tion committee to that effect.
To belong to the American Institute
of Mining Engineers, is a mark of dis
tinction. Membership is not easy to
obtain. Only after an engineer has
made his mark in the world, and has
shown his brother engineers, that he
is or large-sized caliber, is he invited
to become a member. Among the more
distinguished who were with the party
are L. D. Ricketts, consulting engineer,
who has served as president of the in
stitute since last February. He suc
ceeded William L. Saunders, chairman
of the board of Ingersoll and Rand Co.
and vice chairman of the naval con
sulting board. Mr. Saunders has in
vented appartus for drilling rock un
der water, pumping by compressed air.
tngersou track and bar channelers and
gadders for quarrying stone. Benja
min' B. Thayer, president of the Ana
conda Copper Mining Co., is a former
president of the institute. Mr. Thayer
is thoroughly familiar with mining
operations in many parts of the world.
and in addition to displaying great
technical skill has infused into his com
pany a loyalty and efficiency that are
exceptional.
Sidney J. Jennings, vice president of
the institute, is vice president of U.
S. Smelting, Refining and Mining Co.,
and has charge of their exploration de
partment. He has had long experience
in South African mining and was presi
dent of the South African association
of engineers. George C. Stone, the
institute's treasurer, is chief engineer
of the New Jersey Zino Co.
Bradley Stoughton, secretary of the
institute for the past three years, is a
consulting metallurgist in New York
City and is the inventor of a convenor
for making steel castings and a process
for oil melting in cupolas. He is the
author of the widely-known text book
"The Metallurgy of Iron and Steel."
Among the vice presidents of the in
stitute are H. C. Hoover, now known
throughout the world as chairman of
the commission for relief in Belgium,
and Karl Filers, metallurgist and spe
cialist in smelting lead and copper.
Among the directors of the institute
are Reginald W. Brock, director of the
Canadian Geological survey and lately
of the Canadian expeditionary force,
and D. C. Jackling, who is identified
with many of the country's leading
copper mining companies.
The first of the big party left New
York City on Thursday, September 14,
going through Boston and Springfield,
to Syracuse and Cleveland. At Chicago,
the party was joined by more mem
bers. In that city they were enter
tained by a ride around the city through
the parks, boulevards, etc. From Chi
cago they went to Kansas City via the
Rock Island, and then to El Paso. At
El Paso a number of the engineers
made a trip across the international
line to Juarez.
The next stop was Santa Rita, where
a visit was made to the mines of the
Chino Copper company and the mill of
the Empire Zinc company, . Leaving
(Continued on Page Twelve)
Frisco Bomb Man Guilty
Is Given Life Sentence
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAX FRANCISCO, Sept. 23. War
ren B. Killings, tried here for the
murder of Mrs. Myrtle Van Loo, one
of the ten persons killed by the ex
plosion of a bomb during the San
Francisco preparedness parade, July
2, was today found guilty in the first
degree. The- jury recommended life
imprisonment.
Billings will be sentenced Tuesday,
it was announced.
The jury was out three hours. Most
of that time was spent at lunch at a
cafe.
Assistant District Attorney James
Brennan, after the verdict stated he
hored to be able to use Billing's tes
timony in the prosecution of Thornes
J. Mor.ney. his wife Rem, Israel Wein
berg and Edward Nolan, on an indict
ment similar to that upon which Bil
lings was convicted. ,
Earlier in the day Brennan made
the statement that he considered Bil
lings only a tool in the hands of big
ger men and that if he were convicted
he (Brennan) would be the first to go
to the governor and ask for a pardon
or commutation of sentence if Bill
ings would consent to tell what he
knew of the bomb conspiracy.
Maxwell McNutt, chief counsel for
the defense, would make no statement
after the' verdict was returned.
