tvS'/v -v
4
The intelligent, common sense
workingmen prefer: to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to ileal
with a picture or a dream.—Gom
pers
vol.23. No.46.
mam
IE
Judicial Criminal Process Against
Workers In Pittsburgh Per­
version o" Justice.
,,
VICTIMS OF Di.
ARE PUT In ."VA1
N?: *»,„
Terrible Injustice Brings About
Combination of Both Organ­
ized and Unorganized Men.
WASHINGTON, D. C. June 24.—
•The Steel Trust is "Americanizin the
Foreigners" in the courts of Pitts­
burg-.
The judicial criminal process
against workers in the Pittsbui'g in­
dustrial district is so terribly a per­
version of justice that it is almost in­
credible. It saves itself from ex­
termination by being so bad that peo­
ple can hardly believe the true
stories told of it. Some day the peo­
ple generally are going to believe and
lenew the facts concerning the
politico-judicial process as directed
by the Steel Trust against the work­
ers in the district, and then—
On June 3 a jury in the quarter
sessions crinimal court of Pittsburg
convicted 11 men of "rioting and in­
citing to riot" on the day (May 1)
before the fight at the Edgar Thom­
son plant of the Steel Trust when
the guards behind a board fence fired
into the crowd of strikers and
lookers-on and killed three of them
outright, fatally wounded two or
•three others and seriously wounded
about three score more/
Victims of Dragnet.
The terrible perversion of justice
In this proceeding is that the men
and women convicted and put on
trial and thrown into jail to await
trial are simply the victims of the
Pittsburg dragnet process of break­
ing up any movement for the better
[ment of the workers by arresting and
prosecuting any and every person at
all prominent or influential in strike
[leadership. For nearly four weeks
after the slaughter and wounding of
I their associates by the gaurds, men
stayed in the Pittsburgh jail who
I were so absolutely innocent of any
connection with the fighting that
their names were not even mentioned
in that connection in the first trial.
When the case went to the jury at
that firsftrlal. the jury had to be re
minded that these men had been, on
trial and that they coutd not be
"turned loose" from jail until the
jury had formally acquitted them.
And just as soon as they and a few
others were acquited in that first
trial they were indicted by the grand
jury (which had been kept in con­
tinuous session) without a shred of
new evidence—possibly to protect the
sheriff who had thrown them in jail
and who presumably was liable in
damages on his bond for depriving
.them of liberty.
Liberty! Liberty in Pittsburg for
workers who wish their families to
ne fed and who demand decent work­
ing and living conditions!
Anna Bell, a young working woman
"who had been a strike leader, took
the liberty of stepping from the side­
walk to the street to get a better
view of the marching workers* She
•wag put in jail for that on the riot­
ing and inciting to riot charge and on
the charge of being accessory to the
murder of her friends, although she
was not near the fighting. She is
in jail yet, although acquitted at the
first trial.
About 5,000 to 6,000 workingmen
asserted and exescised the liberty of
marching from a Westinghouse plant
in East Pittsburg to a Steel Trust
plant in North Braddock and there
to call to the other workers to come
and join the strike. But that was
the "crime," in the Pittsburgh crim­
inal process, for which the active
men who were feared by the Steel
Trust and the other
empl03rers
were
arrested and jailed and prosecuted
and convicted and made subject now
to penitentiary sentence.
Bridget Kenney, a strike heroine of
1914, took the liberty of riding in a
friend's automobile to see the end­
ing of the parade to north Braddock.
She was arrested and tried but ac
(Continued on Pagfe 2.)
By DANTE BARTON.
WASHINGTON, June 24.—-Union
labor in Chicago, with an absolutely
just cause, iq fighting with its back
to the wall a really desperate com­
bination of employers grouped
around the International Harvester
company, and against the power of
the courts. The most sweeping in
juntions against labor have been is­
sued, in the form as yet, of tem­
porary restraining orders, on behalf
ol the Harvester company and the
Illinois Malleable Iron company and
on behalf of the big and little tan­
nery companies of Chicago, whose
workmen are also on strike to pro­
cure a respectable living and some
small share of the prosperity which
their labor is creating.
Courts Back Employers.
The unions are winning the strike
and would have it won except for
th*~ report of the courts to help them
save their big profits and starve the
strikers into submission to bosses who
are too arrogant even to confer with
committees of .the workers, or with
I ?V n.iJi
Public Investigation Shows Prac­
tice to Be Common All Over
New York.
TELEPHONE COMPANY
SUPPLIES TAP LIST
Police ten Go Ahead Without
Even Consulting Officials of
Phone Company.
NEW YORK, June 24.—The work­
ers of New York have been given a
chance to peep behind the scenes and
find out just how impartial is the po­
lice department in its handling of
strikes. To be certain, there never
was any doubt that the sympathies
of officialdom were on the side of the
employers, but undeniable confirma­
tion of this has been obtained in a
strange manner.
Subject of Investigation.
The "tapping" of telephone wires
by the police has been the subject of
investigation for some time by the
legislative committee headed by Sen
ator George F. Thompson. Labor had
little interest in the disclosures, how­
ever, except as they afforded new
proof of the power of the house of
Morgan, until Peter J. Brady, secret­
ary of the Allied Printing Trades
council, made the charge that the
wires of a number of labor unions
had been "trapped" by the police,
and the information gained in this
manner turned over to employers and
to private detective agencies.
One specific case was told of a
garment worker—one of the thou
sands now on strike—who called up
union headquarters to say that his
family was in want.
Within a few hours his former em­
ployer heard of this telephone mes­
sage, and hurried a basket of food
to his home, and followed it up by
sending his automobile to take the
family out riding. In every case of
this kind the effort has fceen made to
influence a striker's wife to persuade
her husband to go back to work—but
the bosses have had very little suc­
cess at this.
Later Brady followed up his first
charger with a letter that he read at
a hearing of the Thompson commit­
tee^ Besides Brady's signature, the
letter also bore those of Hugh Frayne,
general organizer o£ theAmerfean
Federation of E£h6Fr"James P. Hoi*
land, president of the New York" Fed­
eration of Labor John Sullivan, in­
ternational officer United Brewery
workers E. T. Jamfes, Brotherhood
of Painters Ernest Bohm, secretary
Central Federated union, and Henry
Wagman, United Garment workers.
The letter contained Brady's for­
mer charges with some hot shot for
the police officials who worked in
co-operation with the "moral lepers"
in private detective agencies.
He demanded th&t the police de­
partment be required to make public
the information that led it to believe
that the labor unions whose wires had
been tapped were concerned in the
commission of any crime, and he de­
manded, furthermore, that the whole
list of tapped wires be made public
to expose the methods pursued by
the police and show that no wires of
detective agencies nor of employers
had been "tapped."
Gets Copy of "Wires."
This brought forth much wrangling
with Senator Thompson and Frank
Moss, the committee's counsel, but in
the end it was decided to give Brady
& copy of the union wires that had
been tampered with, and to let him
and a committee of labor leaders look
through the whole list of "tapped"
wires, upon his promise that he would
not publish it. He was told that the
investigation he demanded was not
within the scope of the Thompson
committee, ahd that he should go to
District Attorney Swann with his
complaint. This Brady will do within
a few days, and some fireworks are
promised then, for labor will insist on
seeing the matter through to the end.
One more thing remains to be told.
The list of "taps" that the Thomp­
son committee has, was furnished by
the telephone company and contains
only a small percentage of the num­
bers of telephones that have been
tampered with.
national and state and locali
mediators.
The employers of labor in Chicago,
as elsewhere see that labor has its
opportunity, to get the directing con­
trol of its own life and to gain fair
wages. So they are desperately de­
termined to do fll in their pow«»rt
and to use every legal process their
lwwyer have devised, to prevent the
workens from organizing and helping
one another by labor union action.
The employes of the Deering plant
and the McCormick plant of the In­
ternational Harvester company and
the employes of the Illinois Malleable
Iron company presented demands on
May 1 for a shorter work day and
for increases in wages amounting to
an average of about 11 per cent for
both piece and day work. They
walked out when the demands were
refused. They have stayed out ever
since and the plants have been tied
up ever since, for the smolders,, core
makers and foundrymen on strike
were essential {o the operation.'of the
works. -The-companies could not get
•Strikebreakers to-4kke the places, of
the workers, and no trickery or in­
DULUTH AND SUPERIOR,
We- have not said anything about the old armory for
several months. We have been perfectly content to
await the decision of the supreme court on the legality
of the referendum petitions. It now looks as if there
will be no decision until early in November.
In the meantime the city has the armory, and there
it is a large vacant building as idle as a haunted barn,
which can be put to numerous city uses. During the
wet and dry campaign the big room could have been
rented every night to one side or the other, that is if we
had a director of public affairs who was on to his job.
Now that the people have voted out the saloons, the
need for such a building as the old armory becomes
more apparent. What has the city to offer as a substi­
tute to the thousands of men without homes here, who
can find a welcome in a saloon? If we are really inter­
ested in making men, now is the opportunity to do it.
The rich have their clubs, and they have homes too.
Even the men of ordinary means find it necessary to
maintain institutions where they can socially meet their
fellows of the same strata.' It is the age-old longing
for association that prompts us all to join lodges, unions,
clubs and other like institutions. Rich and poor, the
learned and the illiterate all have the same longings.
We have driven our workingmen to saloons because
there was no other place for them to go. The lumber­
jack, the sailor, the dockworker and all of their kind
found the saloon their only place for social recreation,
where democracy flowed freely from both bowl and soul.
It is not right to throw these men on the street or
force them to spend their idle hours in close and stuffy
lodging houses, such as they are wont to frequent during
their stay in the city. Better places must be provided
for them and these should be maintained by the city,
surrounded by no semblance of charity or so-called phil­
anthropy.
And then there are young boys too, the boys who
can't be coaxed right away into the Y. M. C. A. There
is probably no institution in the city so demoralizing to
young then as the public pool hall. It is far worse than
the saloon. It is rare indeed during later years when a
saloon man would take a chance at giving a drink of
intoxicating liquor to a minor. There are more young
men in correctional institutions who were given their
downward start in a public pool hall than in a saloon.
The latter has played but a secondary part. Vices far
more serious than drinking come out of the public pool
hall. Ask any veteran police officer and he will cqnfirm
this statement.
Is the Steel Trust looking for
another Youngstown?
The downright murder of John
Alar, &' striking miner in the
back yard of his home at Vir­
ginia yesterday, by Dave Foley
and his company of private po­
lice is an outrage.
Sheriff Mewing should lose no
time in revoking the police
authority of every steel trust
"policeman" on the range.
There is danger of more blood­
shed if these men are not removed
from the strike zone. They are
provokers of trouble. They have
learned nothing from the recent
strikes in the east. Sheriff Mein
ing seems able to handle the
situation. He will protect all
life, and all property. The Olliver
Mining company police are in­
terested only in saving the steel
trust's property. They have no
regard for the sacredness of
human life.
Coroner Mc Comb should not
permit the body of Alar to be
CHICAGO COURTS STRIKE BODY BLOW AT
timation could bring the men back
into the plants. Strong local unions,
the Malleable Casting Workers'
union and the Illinois Malleable Iron
Workers' union, were formed among
the workers and affiliated with the
Chicago Federation of Labor and the
American Federation of Labor.
Attacks Freedom of Press.
Trusting then to their hold on the
courts and the process'of injunction,
the employers (with the Interna­
tional Harvester company covering
up in the center). flung themselves
full against the .American Federation
of Labor and the Chicago Federation
and the local unions of. the srikers
and against the individual strikers
themselves.
The injunction they asked,' and
which a judge issued, actually de­
nies and sets aside the freedom of the
press. It forbids the use of any
kind of publicity by the workers to
ask, or to induce other workers not
to take places in the plant pir to come
out and join the union Specifically
the compianies .asked that the unions
be forbidden, to. repeatsuch notices
in tl^e Polish daily and weekly
FOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REFOEM AND POLITICAL PROGRESS.
PUTTING SALOONS OUliOF BUSINESS
CREATES NEED FOR BIG CIVIC CENTER
interred without holding a
searching inquiry. The truth
about this murder must be given
to the public, given straight, and
without corporation color.
It is bad enough when it is
read in the daily papers as fol­
lows:
In a pitched battle between striking
miners and between twenty and thirty
Oliver Iron Mining company police­
men on the North side of Virginia at
5:30 this morning, John Alar, a
striker, was killed. Vincent Elias, gro­
cery proprietor, was shot through the
thigh and an unknown miner was shot
through the left shoulder. Intense ex­
citement prevails over the city.
Stories of North side residents and
police officers of the Oliver Iron Min­
ing company are widely at variance
concerning the starting of the trouble.
Falls Dead On Vacant Lot.
John Alar, fightihg with a Winches­
ter rifle, fell dead on a vacant lot at
tha rear of his home. He was shot
through the wrist, the abdomen and
through the left jaw. When Alar fell
there was a general cessation of hos­
tilities. Who fired the shot that caused
"Zogda" as the following, which the
unions had inserted:
"We are asking all working men
not to go into the shops of the Illinois
Malleable Iron company as there is a
strike there. Be sure and keep away
from the plant. The conferences
with the company are sure to be suc­
cessful. The meetings take place at
Webster hall, Webster and Robey
streets. The committee: Jan Micha
lek, Stanislas Kazubski, Josef Duda."
What becomes of the freedom of
the press if a plain unthreatening
statement like that can b6 forbidden
publication both in a newspaper and
by circular?
That assault on the freedom of the
press and on free speech and on the
right of the workers to address their
fellow workers would seem to be as
far as corporation employers could
go in the use of. injunctions. But
these Chicago fighters against union
labor havetrled tou«ethfe power of
the. caurtsjlo^itarvstlhe yoriters and
their families." ......
Prohibits 'AM ^o Strikers.
--The. InjUncUm.ptohlbltB Jfe* Amer­
24,1916.
c*
But we can't blame the boys for visiting pool halls.
The street is the only other social place for them to go
where they can feel free, and can act without restraint.
Of course some of the boys can and do attend the Y. M.
A.—it would be bfetter if more of them did—but the
grefet majority have inclinations to go elsewhere, for
reason* too numerous to mention in this article.
A community that recognizes its duty to man, after
yot# Pit the salooos, should lose no time in establish­
ing &4>lace where men may congregate for social past
time^ Men have lounged about saloons more often for
associations than through hunger for drink. It Is strange
that moral reformers seldom recognize this fact.
Readers in search of the truth will not see in this
article an apology for the saloon, for it is nothing of the
kind. Neither will they see in it a claim that the saloon
has been the workingman's only club. We are not wor­
rying about the welfare of the men who have their homes
here,r but about the thousands who are homeless, whose
oportunities are limited and whose likes do not take
then} to the library, the church and other similar insti­
tution where they might or might not be made wel­
come!, Sometimes they may have the inclination to visit
such places, but they are forbidden by a feeling of caste.
The Labor World is yet hopeful that the armory will
be saved for the people, and that it soon will be used
for a great community center, with club and reading
rorns, a gymnasium and a number of other conveniences
for the recreation of the peqple.
Then there is the city market. The summer is well
on its way, and up to this the public has not been in­
formed, of the plans o^ Mayor Prince for the opening of
a market. What is going to be done about it? Shall
Michigan street continue to have its sweet way in dic­
tating the price the public shall pay for farm products,
as.jrell as their quality?
What a sad mistake the commissioners made when
they voted to dispose of the old armory? Now that the
people have learned of the numerous public uses to
whfch the building may be put, possibly it is not too late
to save it. If the supreme court will but rule that the
referendum petitions were valid the forces that put the
city, dry, if they are consistent, will vote to save the
property, and this vote will carry with it a mandate from
the people to the commissioners, directing them to turn
the gliding into a great civic center.
|t strikes us that the result of Monday's election
makes It mandatory on the part of the city to provide a
social institution lor the use of he men of the city who
nee^i it most, if not for all the people.
his death is not known. There was
general melee, in which a woman, said
to be Mrs. Nick Bosandich, armed
•with a rifle, Alar, and Oliver police­
men participated.
Alar is married and has a family of
three children. His body was removed
to the undertaking parlors of H. S.
Oillespie to be prepared for burial.
Sheriff Meining with a force of
deputies arrived at the scene of the
battle after the firing had ceased.
There were hot words between the
sheriff and David F. Foley, chief of
police.
"Foley, why didn't" you notify me of
this?" said the sheriff. "I couldn't
locate you," said Foley. "That is not
true," said Meining. "It's strange to
me that you can find this man King
and are unable to locate me."
Kirig is the special agent of Presi­
dent McGonagle of the Duluth, Mis
sabe & Northern railway, and the man
yesterday was involved in a fight with
strikers while they were parading at
Hittin~.
"I am through with you," was Mein
ing's parting words to Foley.
ican Federation .of Labor and the Chi­
cago Federation of Labor and all'
union men and all other people from
helping the strikers with money, or
with groceries, or with credit, or
with new jobs, or with any other kind
of assistance or reward.
If these underpaid foundry work­
ers and molders and other striking
workers are hungry or are out jOf
money, after six weeks of heroic
struggle and sacrifice for their fam­
ilies, they are to be branded as crim­
inals and put in jail for contempt of
court if they accept a ,loan or a gift
from their fellow unionists to help
them over into the day of better in­
dustrial justice.-.
If union labor,'national,, or state,
or local, helps these- (Chicago strikers
to win their particular battle in the
general fight of -the working people,
then all union labor is to be in con­
tempt of court and is to be punished.
Could anything be clearer than is
the- attempt.of theses Chicago em­
ployers to invent* ail cooperation
and organization by the workers for
the W*ual protection?
Their xhaltonge^iii thtffr Chicago, In­
Iftf&ATk
All Affiliated Bodies Receive
Draft of Model legislative
Measure*
WOULD PLACE CHECK BY
INJUNCTION BY COURT
Provide for Legislation of Organi­
zations Formed to Better Con­
ditions of Labor.
Recently the American Federation
of Labor sent to all affiliated bodies
a model for a law having for its pur­
pose the legal differentiation between
the voluntary organizations pf work­
ers and combinations, corporations
and trusts and also for the regulation
and limitation o"f the issuance of in­
junctions in labor disputes. Here is
the proposed law:
Section 1.—It shall not be unlaw­
ful for working men "and women to
organize themselves into or carry on
labor unions for the purpose of les­
sening the hours of labor or increas­
ing the wages or bettering the con­
ditions of the members of such or­
ganizations, or carrying out their
legitimate purposes as freely as they
could do if acting singly.
Sec. i.—No resrtraiing order or in­
junction shall be granted by any
court of this state or any judge or
judges thereof in any case involving
or,growing out of a. dispute concern­
ing terms, or conditions of employ­
ment, unless necessary to prevent ir­
reparable injury to property or to
a property right of the party making
the application, for which injury
there is no adequate remedy at law,
and such property right must be de­
scribed with particularly in the appli­
cation, which must he In writing and
sworn to by the applicant or by his
agent or attorney.
Sec. 3.—r-No restrainingorder or in­
junction shall prohibit ariy person or
persons, whether singly "or in concert,
from terminating any relation of em­
ployment or from ceasing to perforin
any work or labor, or from recom­
mending, advising or persuading oth­
ers so to do, or from attending at any
place where anyi person or persons
may lawfully be for the purpose of
obtaining or communicating informa­
tion,-:4r from *er8uading any .such
iMm.
Working, orfromTceiiilhi1 to-patronise
any party to such dispute, or from
recommending, advising or persuad­
ingothers so. to .'do or from paying
or giving to," or withholding from,
any person engaged in such dispute
any strike benefits or other niionieys
or things, of value or from as­
sembling in a lawful maimer and for
lawful purposes o^frohr 'doing any
act or thing which might lawfully
be done in the absence of such
dispute by a Single individual nor
shall any of the acts specified in this
section be considered or held to be
illegal or unlawful _in any court of
this state.
Sec. 4.—That the. labor of a human
being is not a commodity or article
of commerce and the right to enter
into the relation of employer and em­
ploye, or to change that relation or
to assume and create a new relation
for employer and employe: or to per­
form and carry on business with any
persoir in any place or to do work
and labor as an employe, shall be
held and construed to be.a personal
and not a property right. In all cases
involving the violation of the con­
tract of employement, either by the
employe or employer where no ir­
reparable damage is about to be com­
mitted upon the property or property
right of either, no injunction shall be
granted, but the parties shall be left
to their remedy at law.
Sec. 5.—No person shall be in­
dicted, prosecuted or tried in any
court of this state for entering into
or carrying on "any arrangement,
agreement or combination between
themselves made with a view of less­
ening the number of hours of labor
of increasing wages or bettering the
condition of workingmen, or for any
act done in pursuance thereof, unless
such act is in itself forbidden by law
if done by a single individual.
junctions is a challenge to the whole
labor movement.
Would Destroy Union Labor.
They make the attempt to destroy
union labor and this attempt to
starve their striking workmen into
submission with the bold and un­
varnished declaration that they want
the courts to guard their profits!
They boldly declare, -in asking for
the injunction, that the 'strike was
keeping them from making a, lot of
money. They said they had material
on hand which would be valueless
unless labor would giye it a value.
And yet, on that admission that their
Own profits deposed oaf the labor
of the workers, they aajced that the
workers, be starved* pr put in jail for
trying to get an eight or a nine hour
day and an increase .in wages less
than the increase in thexost of liv­
ing. .(
These same workers .ura told in the
same injunctiOnV thttt they must not
picket, that they .imist 'not congre­
gate in this' compa^
nles* plants, not try
to Indue*. leave-the
The working classmownei# tip
be moet effective mnst be cof^pctod
the
tb«QiMlvM in" tfe* in-
tofwrt of jthe worker*.. It .will not
bee dominated by the so-called to*
illectuals or bntters-ln.—Gompers.
TWO CENTS.
U. S. Statistics Give Knockout
Blow to Partisan Critics
On Tariff.
PROVE BOOMERANG TO
WILSON QPPOtfENTS
Vast Export Increase Js Shown
Imports Chiefly Crude
Articles..
Statistics just made public by the
United States department of com­
merce are regarded in Washington as
giving a complete knockout blow to
partisan Republican efforts to win
favor among bUsinecs men on the
tariff issue by pointing to the in­
crease of imports under the Under­
wood tariff law.
The figures shed hew light upon
the present export and import trade.
As they were collected by hundreds
of agents at the ports of entry of the
country, their accuracy is unim­
peachable.
The statistics show that the present
tariff has helped the United States to
take the maximum advantage of the
opportunities opened to American
commerce and industry by the Euro­
pean war. This fact, it is believed,
will go far toward determining the
the course of business men in the
coming campaign. Democrats say it.
sustains the contention that tariff
changes should not be made except
as circumstances may alter the exist­
ing satisfactory situation and then
only upon the advice of a commis­
sion of experts, as proposed by Presi­
dent Wilson.
Raw Material Imports Increase.
The point made emphatically clear
is this: That the increase of imports
of raw materials-r-These being es­
sential to enable American manu­
facturers to meet the enormous de­
mand from abroad tor manufactured
,*oods—r-absorb twice over the total
increase of imports. This arises
through the markd decrese in im­
ports of manufactured goods.
Imports and exports during the
nine months -of the current fiscal
year eliding March. 31, last, are con­
trasted with imports and exports
during the nine-month period from
July 1 to March 31, 1914, before the
European war began.
BlfBaUmeeor Trade.
'Th€K lfff?THa8e' of Imports
export* f*,4S8,95«,
557, showing a gain of sales of United
States goods abroad exceeding, by
nearly one billion dollars the gain of
purchases of foreign articles. That,
however, is the least significant fact.
The gain of imports of crude ma­
terials for use in American factories
is, by reason of the decreased im­
ports of manufacturers, nearly twice
as much as the increase of all im­
ports. That is, the increase of im­
ports of crudie materials amounts to
more than $193,500,000, whereas the
gain of all imports amounts to only
$106,200,000. Imports of food stuffs
and food animals have decreased im­
ports of manufactures for further use
in manufacturing have decreased
and the imports 'of manufactures
turned out by foreign labor and ready
for sale in the American market de­
creased $123,247,724.
This showing is certain to be borne
out even more startling contrast
when the complete figures for the
current fiscal year are in.
Comfirmed by Export Figures.
The export figures afford ample
corroboration. Exports of crude ma­
terials to be worked into finished
products by foreigners are way down,
whereas exports of foods and manu­
factures, especially completed manu­
factures, are way up.
Other figures giving more detail
are even more striking. In the first
nine months of the current fiscal
year, imports of Egyptian cotton
amounted to 174,860,043 pounds
worth $28,374,713. In the cor­
responding nine months of 1914, the
imports of Egyptian cotton amounted
to only' 62,326,244 pounds, worth
$10,734,564. Turning to exports of
cotton cloths, wearing apparel and
other cotton manufactures the rea­
son for the increase of imports of
(Cnttnei P«fe 2.)
plants. They.are told not to do these
and many other things that are
harmless or that they have not at­
tempted to do.
In Chicago at this period, in addi­
tion to minor industrial struggles,
there are the strikes of the Malleable
Iron company and two International
Harvester company plants, the Mc­
Cormick and the Deering, involving
2,500 to 3,000 workers 'the strike of
the tanneries where 2,300 men are
still out, six of the twenty-three em­
ployers having already given in to
the workers' demands the strike of
the twd to three thousand employes
of plumbing manufacturers and the
strike of from 1,500 to 1,?Q0 drivers
for the express companies. In every
case the workers have had the sup­
port of organized labor pnd. have
proved themselves masters pf the ait
uation,' able- to win their strike* It
remain* to be peen whether the rush
of the employers the $ovrts frith
theiir losing fight«r can rob the wOrk
kers of^their earne4 vlcloryjtndican
stamp^ fraternity and in^tual laid
among IwoMcejrii af. crlp|!ial ^ffeitses.
•J
-M
si
..s|
-ii
