BRING IN YOUR WANT
AD COPY BEFORE 6 P. M.
Early Delivery of Sunday Wanl Ads In
sures Correct Classification
iiirfttnotid STimcs ?
ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-Dispatch Wanl Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
66th YEAR
VOLUME ??
M.MIIKR 175
RICHMOND, VA., SATURDAY, JUNE 24, 1916.?TWELVE PAGES.
HAtjii ?,B,i ?CLOUDY.
PRICE. TWO CENTS.
BAKER FLASHES OUT CALL FOR HASTE
IN MOVEMENT OF GUARDSMEN TO BORDER
CAVALRY COMMAND
ALMOST WIPED OU1 j
IN CARRIZAL FIGHT
Seven Survivors in All
Reach Main Column,
Pershing Reports.
OBJECT OF TREACHEROUS
ATTACK BY CARRANZA MEN
Only Most Stupendous ^.uck
Could Have Extricated Amer
icans From Trap.
OTHKR8 MAY HAVK HKK.V SAVK1)
Many Grim Kvlilotircs in Washing
ton Tli 111 Ton-inn I
I nrr??asofl.
FAN ANT'?N|'i, TKX . .fu:ie 23?The
,wo troops of the Tenth ''rivalry, under
Capta i n Chailes T Boyd. practically
were wiped out by the attack of the
Mexican forces under Oen^ral Gomez at
("arrizal on June 21, according to indica
tions given in a fragmentary report re
ceived foy (ieneral Kuns ton from ? ??-n
c.-al Pershing to-night.
General Pershing's message stated
that seven survivors in all. including
those who arrived last night, have
r?arhed the main column. All were
*-Mi?ted men, hut the report did not
Fay whether th'-r" nonenmruis
fion?d officers among them
According to the stories of the silr
\ Ivors as outlined in General I'ershinc's
f-j-ort. a m>uiited fori'* of Mexicans
male a charge from the thank of the
American troops at the conclusion of
a par'ey between Captain Boy<| and
General Gomez at ti.-> same time that
n machine ciin opened tire from the
front as General Gome* reached his
lines. Captain Hoyd had ordered his
rr.en to dismount a.s the machine gun
opened Are, and tli* combined effect of
the Mexican machine fire and the rifle
fire from the Mexican garrison of Or
rizBl, -which had almost surrounded the
little American force under coyer of
the parley sought by General <*>ine7.
to discuss whMher Captain Boyd should
be allowed to pass through t!>< town,
s'ampeded the Ivrs- -
Ml IH0TA1I.N T?? < 111 *.? l\
ok ?i i: v i? in < 11 \ m.K
NT> details were made kit*to 'ien
eral Pershing as to whether the Mexi
can charge was >-hecketl
With their mount-! ironc, i.ii.i lit with
out means of escape, ringed ;.hout on
three sides with the fire of an over
whelming force, t'.i > fat-- ? t the little
detachment is believed by officers here
to have been scaled. It is feared that
only the mo>t stupendous luck, hacked
by desperate valor, could have extri
cated Captain Kovd's men from the
trap.
The reports from Mexican forces
place the number of killed, including
two officers, at from twelve to forty.
It Is reported seventeen were taken
captive Into Chihuahua City.
The report from (Ieneral Pershing
stated that the stories of the survivors
were confused. and did not conform in
all details ?with the report made by the
first arrivals from the battle field.
General Pershing reported that there
was a scene of wild confusion when
the Mexicans opened fire and their cav
alry charged. The stragglers, appar
ently, were cut off In an effort of Cap
tain Boyd to extricate his men from
the Jaws of the trap which was closing
on Ills command or fieri before the out
come of the battle could be learned.
The accepted percentage of wounded
to those killed in modern warfare
would place the wounded at from
thirty-five to forty at the lowest esti
mate. The strength of the two troops,
O and K. is not known here, but it is
estimated that they could not exceed
thirty-five men. allowing for those sick
and on detached service. With only
seven survivors reported as arriving
at the main column, the number of
those accounted for, at least specu
latively, Is pitifully small.
WASHINGTON IS STinitKD
WITH l)KEP AIM'ltKHKXSIOX
WASHINGTON, June 23. ? General
Pershing's report indicating that the
American cavalry command engaged at
Carrlzal was the object of a treacher
ous attack by Carranza soldiers, and
virtually was wiped out. stirred Wash
ington to-night with a deeper appre
hension than has been aroused by any
other development in the series which
have brought the country to the brink
of war with Mexico.
While no official would indicate the
probable course of the United States,
should the report prove true, there
were many grim evidences that ten
sion had been greatly increased. Pres
ident Wilson, who had retired before
the news reached Washington, was
awakened and talked with Secretary
Baker over the telephone. At the
War Department, officials apparently
credited for the first time the story
that the Mexican troops had been guil
ty of an act which could lead only to
the most serious consequences.
Late to-night the Pershing report
told of In news dispatches had not
re.ac.hed the War Department officially.
?A report was received from the com
mander In Mexico, however, saying
(Continued on Second Page.)
k nOTEL RUEGER ROOF TO-NIGHT.
Dlnner-aupper, muelo, dancing, 6:30 to 12.
wr -
Chilean Government
Works for Intervention I
SANTIAGO. <;illl,K. J?nc -.'I The
Chilean KOvrrnmrnt Join hern In nc
",r ''IfBniiililc <*o hi ni u ii I en t i o n with
the Kovrrnmrutn ?f \rKfn(lon, lira,
ell. hriimlor and the Inltrd Mtuten
reRiirdlnt; the |>o?hI hilitj of Inter
vention l?y nil the American niitlunn
to tiring nhout n peaceful Holutlon
of the ->le.\lc<iti Hltuuflon.
SECOND SUICIDE GROWS
OUT OF LAWLER MURDER
i SlitrifT of Madison County Shoots
and Kills Himself ?t
County .Jail.
ASSKRTS J.VN'OCKXCK IX NOTE
Many People Surprised That Official
Should Have Thought Himself Sus
ported?Worry Over Criticism lie
Hcved to Have I,ed to Act.
MI NTS\ IM,K, AI.A., June 23.
Sheriff Kobert Phillips, of Madison
''ounty. shot and killed himself the
county Jail here late to-day, ?he second
suicide, growing out of the recent
murder of Probate Judge I,av. l&r. The
sheriff left a note saying he had been
suspected of murder, asserting his
innocence and declaring he had been
"fooled" and could not "stand the
st ra in."
sheriff Phillips had been known as
a political friend to p. D. Overton, for
whom a warrant has been issued In
connection with the Lawler murder,
and it was said bv the sheriff's friends
to-nipht that worry over criticism be
cause he had not arrested Overton had
caused the suicide. That the sheriff
should have thought himself suspected
"f the I?awler murder, however, was
as treat a surprise to many as that
1 aused here on Wednesday, when
Sheiiiy s Pleasants. a local attorney,
was found shot to death In his own
"Hire, leaving h note saying he killed
himself because he was suspected of
murdering Judge r.awler. Acting So
licitor Tate, ii, charge of a special
erand .iurv Investigation, declared no
j suspicion had been directed toward
1'Ieasants.
Sheriff Phillips recently issued a
statement replying to criticism be
cause Overton had not been arrested.
?nd saying he was doing all in his
i power to apprehend him. Later, when
a Jl.non reward was offered for Over
fon. the sheriff asserted neither he nor
his- deputies would share in it if they
arrested ??verton. which he r-lterated
they were making every fffort to do
AI'PKAHS Tt) III-: t*.V11RIt
I i Kill Kit VOL'S ST It A IX
'he sheriff to-day appeared to he
under a high nervous strain. He went
into a cell in the rear of the jail late
to-day. and a few minutes later Walter
Craft, jailer, and a deputy sheriff hur
ried back on hearing a shot. They
found Phillips shot through the head,
they said, wirh a note and a pistol
lying near-by.
The note, which was addressed to
the dead man's wife, said he and his
son, Marcus, went to serve a summons
last week in the vicinity of the place
where Judge l.awler's body was found,
and that this had caused him to be
i suspected of ihe murder.
"It is more than I can stand to live
under." the note continued. "The
, man I thought a gentleman has fooled
i me. I don't want the name on my
children. I can't stand to be accused
, of such a crime."
The note did not name the man who
j "fooled" the sheriff
I The note then referred to business
? matters and to the rearing of the
| young children, and added: "I can't
j afford to live here and be looked upon
las a murderer when C.od knerws I am
j as innocent as the angels in heaven."
The note was unsigned, but accord
ing to Coroner Poole and others who
knew the sheriff, was in his own hand
| writing. It was accepted by the for
loner as having been written by the
j sheriff, who was fifty-two years old
J and who had been in oflice a year and
' a half.
Investigation of the Lawler murder
continued to-day, Charles M. N'alles,
also arrested in connection with the
case, being brought here again from
Birmingham to testify. He was start
ed back to Birmingham after a brief
.appearance before the grand jury.
FLEET OFFICERS ATTEND
, UlpIomaM Presented lo Seventeen (irnd
utile* of Xnvnl War
College.
NEWPORT, R. I.. June 23.?Many of
ficers from the Atlantic Kleot and from
I the Xarragansett Bay naval and army
I stations attended the graduation exer
cises of the Naval War College to-day.
Kear-Adniiral Austin M. Knight, presi
dent. presented diplomas to seventeen
ofiicers.
In his address on the work of the
college, Bear-Admiral Knight touched
on preparedness.
"Much of the sentiment on this sub
ject," he said, "is undoubtedly deep
seated and sincere, but much of it also,
1 am convinced, is superficial and more
or less hysterical. And some of it Is
distinctly selfish.
"A love of country which needs a
supremo crisis to bring it to the sur
face lacks the first elements of ef
ficient patriotism. What is needed in
this country, and what 1 think is sadly
lacking, is a spirit of devotion ready
to respond to every call for service,
without thought of where the service
may or may not lead."
PRESERVE HEALTH :
OF SIATE TROOPS
Civil and Military Officers Co
operating to Establish Perfect
Sanitation at Camp Stuart.
WILL JOIN, GRAYS TO-DAY
Petersburg Company Comes to
Aid in Perfecting Arrange
ments at Fair Grounds.
? 'ivil and military health ofTVers to
day will concent rate their unite'" efforts
upon removal of unsanitary conditions
obtainlng on Fair Grounds property ad
jacent to tlif" Site ^elected for the mobil
ization of Virginia troops, and. co
operating topether. fill see to it that
no wheel Is left unturned f>ir insuring
the health and comfort of the men from
this State who will assemble there in
preparation for possible duty on the
Mexican border.
Surgeon-General Junius F. I.yn< h.
of the Virginia Volunteers, yesterday
designated Major Giles B. Cook, chief
of the First Itegiment. Hospital Corps,
to take a.-{|ve charge of putting into
effect (.roper sanitation measures. Ma
jor Cook will go to the cnnip site early
this morning and \ Porously prosecute
the work until eve.y possible precau
tion shall have been taken.
The Administrative Board, acting on
th? advice of Dr. K <' Levy, Chief
Health Officer of Richmond, will issue
necessary orders to the Street-Cleaning
Department for the removal of waste
material accumulated from stables
maintained by the department at the
southern end of the grounds. Dr. Levy
will give directions also to the State
Fair Association for the correction of
any unsanitary condition existing under
authority.
PETERSn I n?; IN fa NTR V >1 F.N
Wll.il ARRIVE TO-DAV
To assist Major <"*ook in the clean-up
and correction work. Company G. of the
Second Infantry. Petersburg, will arrive
j in Richmond early this morning. pur
suant. tp_orders issued late yesterday
afternoon by Adjutant-General Sale.
The men will be assigned immediately
to duty, subject to orders from the
ofHcer in charge of the field hospital
work. Company G, generally known as
the 1'etersburg Grays, is commanded by
Captain \V. C. Davis.
Supplemented by a force of I0f? new
men. carpenters and ditch-diggers,
workmen will push forward to-day
with renewed vigor In putting the
finishing touches t-> the big camp
ground. The work of installing elec
tric lights was completed last night.
\\ :th the exception of proper drain
age arrangements, the camp will be
practically ready for occupancy before
the sun sets to-morrow. Two powerful
trench-digging machines were at work
yesterday, preparing for the laying of
sewerage pipes.
Company B, of the Richmond Grays.
! with its force of 102 men, was busily
engaged yesterday in assisting Major
Allen Potts, camp quartermaster, house
such supplies as have already reached
'the camp. Enough tentage to aceom
nodate over 3,700 nien Is on hand and
?.afelv stored away in the Administra
tion Building. Quarters for th^ sol
id Wvs will not be stretched until the
I nen reach the camp site.
?MIM.E WATER FACILITIES
AVAILABLE TO-MORROW ,
Rapid progress has been made in
preparations for an adequate camp
water supply. Work on the connecting
lines is almost complete. With suf
ficient speed to-day. water should be
readily accessible in ail parts of the
| camp by to-morrow. Every possible
> safeguard has been set up fo. its per
fect sanitation.
Connecting sewerage pipes seem toj
be the only stumbling block in the way
of a perfected camp within the limits
of a day or two. This work, however,
( will be pushed with all speed. Mayor
I Alnslie has indicated his purpose to
j allow uninterrupted labor throughout
the day to-morrow. More men will be
i on the job. Two shifts will be work
led?one in the day. the other at night.
Major Cook and his force of militia
men will make short work this morn
ling of correcting unsanitary conditions,
j Piles of refuse, dumped outside the
stables of the City Street-Cleaning
j Department, will be burned, and the
| ground thoroughly disinfected to guard
j against the possibility of disease-car
rying germs. Other sanitary work will
be supervised by Major Cook.
(iUARI) SANITATION
WITH ALL PRECAUTIONS
Surgeon-General Lynch's determina
tion to take a firm grip on the sani
tary situation, and begin immediately
preparations for making the site as
healthy and comfortable as possible,
resulted from an inspection trip made
yesterday afternoon with Dr. Levy.
Both physicians were unqualifiedly of
the opinion that immediate action is
necessary.
Dr. Levy, in a letter to the Adminis
trative Board, said:
"As you are well aware, the sanita
tion of such camps is a matter of prime
importance. Xot only do we owe It to
our Virginia troops that everything
should be done to safeguard them
against disense, which Invariably is a
serious mattor where the sanitary oon
ditirns are neglected, but the good
name of our city Is also here Involved.
I trust thai your board will
(Continued on Third J'age.) "
YORK RIVER LINE TO BALTIMORE.
IJ.50 on? way. It.50 round trip. A delight
fully refreshing trip.?Advertisement.
Officers of the Tenth Cavalry, which was attacked by Carranza soldiers at Carriznt. The officers shown in
the photo are. leit to right: Lieutenant II. Abbey, Jr., Captain S. I>. Smith, I lieutenant J. K. Richmond, Lieutenant
(), C. TroxeL Captain Mel', ltutherford.
VILLI) AROUSES I
OF Mil BUNKERS
Small Hint at Annual Banquet After
Kditor'n Disparagement of Pre
paredness I'cilicy.
SITL'ATK >X IS KM BAR BASKING
Demonstration Threatens to Precipi
tate General Disorder, When Cooler
Heads Prevail and Belligerent Out
burst Gradually Cools Down.
[.Special by Staff Correspondent. 1
OLD POINT. VA . June J3.?Within
the very shadows of Portress Monroe,
and in the presence of prominent mili
ary men. who were guests of the Vir
ginia Bankers' Association at the an
nual banquet to-nifrht, Oswald Garri
son Villard. editor of the New York
Evening Post, delivered a pacifist ad
dress bristling with so many uncom
plimentary allusians to the prepared
ness policy of the administration that
n young riot began immediately after
he took his seat.
Incensed by the speaker's disparage
' tnent of the country's present military
| program. Nelson (Iroomc, president of
the Batik of Hampton, broke tnto the
program with a peremptory demand
that the Virginia Bankers' Association,
on the spot, declare its allegiance to
the President's preparedness' policy.
The suggestion called out a storm of
ipplause. Toastmaster Tiffany looked
| w,th uneasiness on the growing dem
onstration. "You are mil of order. Mr.
Groome," he sai-' quietly, as the ap
plause died down. Instantly there arose
, at Mr. Ornome's table other bankers,
who demanded an immediate vote.
"And I am in favor of having this
association indorse a standing army of
500,000 instead of 200,000," shouted a
Hampton banker, encouraged by the
| support; "instead of two more battle
; ships, I am in favor of making it ten
more battleships." The demonstration
I grew and threatened to precipitate
general disorder. Cooler heads, feel
ing keenly the embarrassment of the
| whole situation, made personal ap
I peals for a return to order.
j SK1/.KS OPPORTUNITY
TO PUKSKXT HAPiaion
j Gradually the belligerent demonstra
i tion died flDwn, and Toastmaster Tif
i ffiny seized the opportunity to present
J the next speaker, Norman Hapgood, of
I New York, formerly editor of Harper's
| Weekly.
! "I don't know you, my friend." said
Mr. Hapgood, genially turning to Mr.
j Groome, "but you remind me of that
; Irishman who passed a saloon in front
; of which two men were engaged in a
rough-and-tumble r.ght. As he watched
the combat he grew more and more
belligerent himself. Finally he stopped
; up to the two and said: 'Say. you, is
1 this a private tight, or can anybody
that wants to enter?" "
The crowd laughed uproarously, in
cluding Mr. Villard and Mr. Uroome.
The storm had p.- sed. Mr. Villard's
i ultrapacifist utterance on the eve of
| ominous developments in Mexico ami
j in the heart of a garrison community
, furnished the crowded lobbies . : the
I Chamherlin Hotel with nil exciting
topic. The prevailing feeling was that
it was at least sadly ill-timed.
Among other utterances that fell on
the ears of the assemblage with <pies
(Coritinued on Third Page i
America and Japan
Aniorlon and .lii|iaii are (lulling
n hundred points of contact.
lOnch of them is ii young and
vigorous nation, ??%panilinn rapld
ly. 'I'hfy urr (lie two iloniiiiaiit
?Inure* In a region embracing
lialf tlie globe.
They Ntand for different filings
la principle and policy. They are
working toward different ideals.
One In the arch-type ?f the Re
public! the other is the iirch
type of tlie IOiii pi re. Head the
story of America and Japan in
the recent past?the story of
] I their relations in Korea, la Man
churia, and In China. Head how
the Japanese regard Japan, and
how they regnrd America. Then
draw your conclusions aw to
what tlie future holds.
A series of ten articles, "How
About Japan t" liy Frederic J.
Haskln, will he published In The
TlmcN-IHspafeh, beginning .Mon
day, June 2(1.
An Interesting ntory for lSvery
American.
MUST RAISE SG8.34G.
FOR HOSPITAL TO-DAY
Otherwise Memorial Campaign Will
Fall Short of Complete
Surf ess.
WO\fK CLOSKS AT MIDXICiHT
Only 1 Per Cent of Kiehmond's Popu
lation Has Contributed to Fund,
and Committees Face Hard Task
in Final Hours.
Memorial Hospital Fund
^ulixi'rilii'il yrxtrnlny. . . .$ 1 I.Oilll 40
Pre* iously kiiliscrilird . .. . 170.02(1 !M
Total KtiliKcrlbcti. .. $1 SI.(!,"?:{ 40
Amount ncctleil to com
iiIele fiim! $ os.:t4<> <io
'l'olnl to 1m* rnlxort . . !$'?!."?0,000 00
/
I rRi'iit appeal will lip mntic tn
ilny to the public of llit'linioui] to
complete tlic riiiid for tlic urciitcr !
Memorial Hospital. Especially is
tills ii |< |t o :i t it, lie ilircctcl to tlic
crcnt in ii Mil tin turltic plants of tlic
rlty. nuihl of which mil on tlic lins
pltiil for liclp for llicir employees In
time of slrl?!ici>* or ncclilcnl.
W. T. Oaliney. business iiiiimisciT
of the l Ii ii tn Iter of Commerce. on
tichiilf of the cnmptilRii committee*,
lust night issued ii strniiir appeal to
the city's iiiiiiiufiic turer.H to com
miinicnte with the cuiupnlKii licnd
ilunrtcrH licforc - o'clock t<i-?ln.v.
Only ii few lime con t r Ihu tcil. lie
tnlil. hut if nil will tin llicir part, the
crcnt lienrlit to tlic community will
i He iiskiiriil.
Only 1 l>?-r ????tit of the people of
Kichmoud. it was brought out at the
luncheon yesterday afternoon by Hor
ace F Smith, has contributed toward
tlic greater Memorial Hospital cam
paign fund. Me suggested that every
endeavor be made to bring the remain
ing 99 per cent into the subscribing
fold
"We can raise'the money," said Mr
Smith, "by standing on the merits of
the proposition." and he referred to
the succors achieved in the campaign
for the building of the. Y. M. C. A.
Building in 1907 and the building of
the V. \V C\ A. home in more recent
years, as incentive toward greater ef
fi>rt in the present movement.
Many people have communicated with
I the campaiifu headquarters at S21 East
Main Street to say that they had not
been solicited, but were, willing: to
cont ributc. All who are willing to
Hive may come to headquarters in per
son to make their donation, or may
communicate and ask that a solicitor
be sent.
WOMAN'S COM Ml TTKK
lilt 1 \(iS IV .V-MIir,
It was announced by General Chair
man Thomas L. Moore that the whole
city is now open to solicitors, and that
none of the workers need confine him
self to designated districts. They may,
and are expected to. solicit where they
pi ase. The committee appointed at
the meet inn at the Chamber of Com
merce on Thursday afternoon to solicit
manufacturers began its work yester
day morning, when twelve men, each
in his own car, appeared at the Mer
chants' National Bank to begin their
campaign among those of the 300
manufacturers who have not yet been
visited. This committee will make its
report to-day.
One of the most gratifying returns
given in yesterday was that from tho
Women's Auxiliary, of ^vhich Mrs. I).
A Kuyk is chairman. The auxiliary
procured in the day a total >f &Mf?fi..Nfi,
Mrs. Malvern C. Patterson leading with
$1,455. Mrs. J. St. tieorge Bryan,
working independently, has turned in
a total of $1,500.
Further cmphp ds on the fact that
Memorial Hospital is a public institu
tion was laid by l>r. Melinite Newton,
who presided at the luncheon. Added
significance to this statement was lent
by the fact that aii entire ward in Me
morial Hospital is to be turned over for
tho use of the State troops in case of
accident or illness, except that no con
tagious cases, for which the hospital
has no facilities, will lie received.
Superintendent Frederic II. Morlok yes
terday received appreciative acknowl
edgement of the tender from Surgcon
(Contlnued on Third Page.)
President tiiven Free Hand to Draft
as Federal Soldiers All C*uards
nien Willing to Take Oath.
HIS I'SK or MIIJTIA APPROVED
Only Two Votes Cast in House
Against Adoption of Hay Kesolu
ilo??Attack on Mexican Policy by
Republicans.
WASHINGTON. June 23.?Legislative
approval of President Wilsons use of
the National Guard in the Mexican
crisis was voted almost unanimously
by the House to-day in adopting a
resolution declaring the existence of
I an emergency, and giving the T res
dent a free hand to draft, as Federal
soldiers, all guardsmen willing to
I lake the r-quired oath The Senate
is expected to concur to-morrow.
A million dollar? would he appro
priated by the resolutian to aid de
pendent families of the guardsmen so
(drafted, with th- restriction that no
fa mil v should receive more than
:? month Only two Represent itives. a
Socialist and a Democrat, voted against
the resolution.
During the debate preceding its
idoption. several Republicans attack
ed .he administration's Mexican policy.
jand insisted that President Wilson
! shouid have informed Congress of the
i iiM-rseni y Instead of expecting it to
j a.-t on its own initiative No one
' attempted to deny, however, th..'
emergency had arisen, and Pcpuhllcan
I Leader Mann, former Speaker Cannon
land others declared that in reality a
! state of war existed.
MIS A.St: Hit IS SKC'KNNAItV
IN IMIKSKXT SITUATION
Chairman Hay. of the Military Com
mittee. author of the resolution, told
the House that it was presented by
the administration as a measure neces
sary in the present situation, and not
ns a declaration that a state of war
existed or was to be contemplated.
As introduced, the resolution merely
authorized the President to draft
guardsmen "whenever in bis opinion
an emergency exists which demands
the use of troops in addition to the
regular army."
The amendment making it declare
that in the opinion of Congress such
an emergency now has arisen was of
fered by Mr. Hay. and was adopted
unanimously. After consultation with
Mr Mann. Mr.-llay also .hanged the
"resolution so that the period of ser
vice for which guardsmen could be
drafted would he limited to three
vears.
As soon as the final vote on tl^ reso
lution had been taken it was sent over
to the Senate, \vherc it arrived jus as
adjournment was being taken. It was
referred to the Military Committee, with
the announcement that unanimous con
| sent would be asked to consider it to
mor row.
A proposal to authorize the President
t.. draft members of the naval militia
in time of emergency also was intro
duced In the House to-day. It was
attached to a naval militia pay bill, and
would give authority for enrollment of
I naval militiamen as "national naval
j volunteers" whenever the President
should see tit to call on them.
The refusal of more than 10ft mem
' hers of the National Guard of Texas,
Arizona and New Mexico to enter the
Federal service in response to the
President'*; call came up during the
jdebate to-day. and later Representa
tive Gardner Introduce*" a resolution tor
congressional investigation, which was
referred to the Military Committee.
B.MKHGICNCY I)KM A .N l)S
I SI'. (IK MORK TROOPS
The text of the lla.v resolution as
adopted is as follows:
"Resolved by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States
of America. In Congress assembled.
That, m lho opinion of the Congress of
the United States, ati emergency now
exists which demands the use of troops
in addition to the regular aitny ot the
United States, and that the President
be. and he hereby is. authorized to draft
into the military service of the United
States, under the provisions of section
111 of the national defense act. ap
proved June 3 1 '?? 1 ??. so far as the pro
visions of said section may be applica
ble. and not Inconsistent with the terms
hereof, any or all members of the Na
tional Guard and of tho organized ml
1 (Continued on Fifth Page.)
STATE SOLDIERS
WILL BE RUM
At ONCE TO LINE
Entire Army of 100,000 Meh
Is Placed at Funs ton's
Disposal.
CONGRESS DECLARES
EMERGENCY NOW EXISTS
Authorizes President to Draft
National Guardsmen Into
Federal Service.
CABINET CONSIDERS CRISIS
Curranzn to He Held Responsible for
Carrizal Clash and Mazatlan
Incident.
WASHINGTON. June 23.?National
titiard organizations throughout the
country were stralninc every nerve to
night to prepare for active service on
the Mexican border. New orders flash
ed over the wires by Secretary Baker
bore a call for haste. Red tape was
cast aside, and authorization given un
der which the State soldiers will he
r shed to re-enforce the border guards
at the earliest possible moment. The
entire army of 100,ooo men summoned
by President Wilson's call was placed
directly at General Funston's disposal.
Concress also took vigorous and far
reaching action. A resolution adopted
In the House, by a vote of 332 to 2, de
clares that an emergency calling for
the use of troops in addition to regu
I lars now exists, and authorizes the
President to draft immediately into
i the service of the United States 'all
! members of the National Guard who
.subscribe to ? new oath for that scr
i vice In effect, the measure gives leg.
Islativo approval of President Wilson's
jcall on Stnte Boldlers, and provides for
their use in or out of the United States,
j It also furnishes new machinery with
which to hasten the strengthening of
| the border guard.
The Senate probably will pass the
resoliit ion to-morrow.
! DII'I.IDIATIC ASPEt.'TS
V1KTUAI.I.Y UNCHANGED
Diplomatic aspects of the crisis vir
tually were unchanged. President Wil
j sou reached no final decision as to
j action resulting from the attack by
Mexican troops upon American caval
rymen at Carrizal, or ilpon American
bluejackets at Mazatlan. as only a pre
liminary and inconclusive report of the
i Carrizal clash came from General
Pershing during the day. it was based
i on the statements of stragglers, and
! nr> w?rd had come from_.the olTice of
the shattered detachment. The last
word on the Mazatlan incident will fol
: low a full report from Admiral Wlns
| low. commanding the Pacific Fleet, who
: has been ordered to the scene to make
a personal Investigation.
j As the situation stands at the State
, Department, only preliminary reports
on each Incident have been reported
| from war and navy officials transmit
ted as matters of information. When
the record is complete in each depart
ment. formal accounts will be submit
ted to Secretary Lansing, and the ac
tion of the>L'nlted States then will be
determined.
Evidence now in hand is believed to
be sufficient to show that Carranza
sympathizers or officials probably will
be held responsible In both cases In
dications are that the Washington gov
ernment will stand on the reports of
j its own officers, and refute the asser
I lions of the Mexican government, of
ficially presented here, that Americans
were the aggressors or that irrespon
sible individuals started the clash. It
was thought probable to-night that
the President would demand that Car
ranza repudiate the acts and punish
those responsible.
WII.SO.X AND t A III.MOT
DISCUSS SITUATION
| Mr. Wilson and his Cabinet discussed
; the Mexican crisis fully to-day. but.
pending the receipt of final reports on
the occurrences at Carrizal and Mazat
lan, no course could be mapped out.
The only announcement made after the
meeting was that the policy of the gov
eminent was unchanged.
Further reports from General Persh
ing were expected hourly, officers here
; believe that cavalry re-enforcements
sent out as soon as the first rumors
j of the fight were heard must have
Joined the survivors by this time, and
should reach some point along the
American lines In Mexico soon. Their
tn arch will necessarily bo slow, as
they are undoubtedly encumbered by
wounded.
. ^ New indications came to-day that
i ' urri,lua his advisers, impressed
. by the arguments of Kuropean diplo
mats. were .searching for a peaceful
solution of the dispute they have
raised. Kllseo Arredondo. Mexican am
bassador-designate, made the rounds of
the Latin-American embassies and lega
tions with assurances from his govern
I tnent that Mexican troops had no
aggressive purpose against the Ameri
can columns, and would attack only
if the Americans were on the offensive.
His advices, however, did not say what
would be regarded as offensive opera,
lions, it was noted that the State De
j perime- ?. has as yet obtained no
confirmation through Special Agent
| Rodgers of reports that Carranza him
Beir directed General Trevlno to notify
I.
