)Wfwypii!i! 'm'V lwwmM
f
' "imnmmn9
wnKyarf Mom ,w utKmmmlflif
KI6HT
EXTRA,
ueing
!.'
mrtrne
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, JUNE 24, 1910.
ydL. n.-yo 244
MST HANDSHAKES FROM THE CAR WINDOWS AS THIRD REGIMENT DEPARTS
Constant, 1D10. st ini Postta Ltixici Commrt.
WW
Sceno at Broad street and Washington avenue whero South Philadelphia gathered to watch the militiamen start for Mt. Gretna."
C1RAMZA FORCES ATTACK .
MJ. S. COLUMNS; SIXTEEN MORE
; CARRIZAL SURVIVORS FOUND
Pershing Shifts Forces to Guard Against
.Slaughter of Men in Mexico Wash
;;;gton.Msses Fighting Strength.
' ' for Vigorous Campaign
$nly Release of Prisoners and Disavowal of Massacre by
Carranza Can Avert War, Belief at Capital.
Border Hears Juarez Will Be Bombarded
and Taken by Americans
i;;KANSAS CITY, Mo., June 24. Lieutenant Benjamin Hoge, of
Mjloth .Cavalry, today wired his father that he was safe. The mes-
READYTO FIGHT,
TROOPS LEAVE
FOR MT. GRETNA
Men Say Farewells
Board Trains for
Camp
and
CHEERED BY, THRONGS
sap-read: "Captain and lieutenant killed. I am safe."
Bi$e did not mention the names of the slain officers.
The mes
SAN ANTONIO, Tex.. June 24. General Pershimr reported
today that one packer and eight enlisted men of Troop C and seven
enlistedmen of Troop K, 10th Cavalry, were picked up this morning
northwest, of Santa Maria.
They were found by Troop M, of the 10th, under Lieutenant
Henry 'Meyer. They brought back 25 horses. All of them were
included in'the group detailed to care for the horses at the Carrizal
htaid their stories, were substantially the same as those of other
stragglers. These were unanimous in asserting that the Mexicans
ambushed the American force.
Eighty-four men are still unaccounted for in General Pershing's
reports. All were members of Troops C and K. More than a
re are understood to be prisoners at Chihuahua City, leaving
&qut;GQ men still .listed as missing.
, According to information given General Pershing by civilian
ata, 12 American troopers and 2 officers were killed outright by
we Mexicans.
B ai?anza trops have made three separate attacks on General Pershing's
: L$ f comn"1nicatlon in. Mexico within the last few, days. While they have
j',. """mi ifio American commander is redistributing ms men to prevent
'miKoier or weaker detachments.
One soldier, wounded in the attacks, has been taken back to the border.
appears certain that the American casualties in the Carrizal battle were
y, althniiuli i ,,,.., i i m r a v - . ml
wajry was. reported todav.
kJ P,e.8o1dier.8 were tho horse-holders in the battle. They were picked up
ronuera of TroP M- olso f the 10th.
With ihn tl,4. t i-. . ... . . i-j T.-1.! i. o -.i !.-
, T v.6Mk onuijiera wno nave reacneu rerHimijj a oiuiin mm uw
Prisoners In n,!i,i,.... no... n. i . o i t t.ii
11 "unaccounted for.
1 Wiho Washington is that the Carrizal massacre leaves President
!,uqn no grounds, upon which to give Carranza another chance.
Continued on race Tiro. Column On
t -THE WEATHER
(
r ' FORECAST
J.??,pMhlelpMa and ,W,-,.. r,
."V IrahWhZ loderat.e,lV Warm tonight.
.taF9bfbM Ome light rain- .Cffi
"fe4 uaV! moderate southerlu
vL JtOST A Tin wtt4, "
r tS3r-- i Auuriii
I WiSJErT--rr .
feaiffiisFas
"X2r.2: ,?..
i w;.:". ?
Otd.. : ---iSK.,J2I.!Ii
--.. aM vP(U14 4WU on Va ,,
Political Worker Arrested
Charged with false registration, perjury
and Illegal voting. Alex M. Thompson, a
clerk In the City Treasurer's office and Re
publican division leader, -was arrested Joday
by the Committee of Seventy and held under
$500 ball for a further hearing on Monday
before Magistrate Imber. The Committee
of Seventy charges that Thompson does not
Hye In the jth division ofvthe 9th Ward,
from which he registered, but actually lives
In another division of the same ward.
Thompson has been a division leader for
several years.
Dinner Given for General Price
A farewell .dinner was tendered Brigadier
General Price, of the Jet Brigade, by a
number of his fellow members of the Union
T.nr.i at the clubhouse, last night prior to
his departure for Camp Brumbaugh today.
'1 -
THE OWL T'LEFT-BmilXD iin. -
Tho- hour was sad, I left the maid,
A llno'riifo farewell taking,
tTor aighs and tears my steps delayed,
1 thought her heart was breaking;
In hurried words her name 1 .litest,
1 breathed the vows that bind me,
And to my heart in anguish pressed
The girl I left behind me.
Then to the South we lore away,
To win a name in atorVi
And there, where dawns the sun of day.
There dawned our sun of glory;
Both biased in noon on Richmond's height,
Where in the post assigned me
I shared the glory of that fight,
Sweet girl I left behind me.
The hope of final victory
Within my bosom burning
Is mingling with sweet thoughts of thee
And of my fond returning;
But should I ne'er return again,
Still worth thy love thou'lt find me,
Dishonor's breath shall never stain
The name I'll leave behind me.
Full many a name our 6mtier bore
Of former deeds of daring.
But they wero of tho days of yore,
In which we had no sharing;
But now, our laurels freshly won,
With the old ones shall entwined be,
Still worthy of our sires each son,
Sweet girl I left behind me.
"Forward, march!"
Grimly but alertly, with rifles tilted
acrosa their right shoulders, more than 900
hhakl-clad men and officers of the 2d In
fantry, N. Q. P., swung In quick time out
of the armory doors, on Broad street below
Squsquelianna avenue, this morning. Wheel.
Ing northward Into Broad street In column
of platoons, the marching soldiers proceeded
to the Philadelphia and Beading Railway
yards at Broad and Huntingdon streets. A
special train of 30 passenger coaches was
watting on a siding. Company by com
pany the troopers passed Into the cars.
Their equipment was stowed away, their
guns stacked. Line and staff officers board,
cd the cars reserved for them. A few mln.
utes of watting, and then the start for Mt
Gretna In response to the Government's call
for defenders was on.
WOMEN WEEP ; MEN AFFECTED.
The departure of the 2d Regiment, while
deyotd of ceremony, was Imposing. An
enormous crowd, which' began to gather at
daybreak, stood about the armory doors
and extended on both sides of Broad street
.to the railway yards. Women were weep.
Ing 'and men were scarcely less visibly afi
fected. The old guard of the regiment, re
tired members, some who engaged In Civil
War service, and all with a record of at
least Ave years In he ranks of the National
Guard,, marched at the head of the line
as escort to the campbound regiment. Colo
nel Turner and his staff followed. The
newly recruited guardsmen were noticeable,
not because of any awkwardness of manner,
but by their lack pf complete uniform.
Hero .and there a straw hat or other non
military bit of clothing distinguished the
"rookie."
The band played "Auld Lang Syne" as the
column straightened out Into Broad street.
Hats were doffed by niale spectators as the
regimental colors passed by.
The start for camp was made In three
sections, the flrgt leaving Huntingdon street
shortly after 8:30 o'clqcki"
One hour later the 1st Regiment, with as
Continued on l'ate Fife, Column Two
FREE CAPTIVES
OR BE CRUSHED.
Washington Ultimatum
Means First Chief Must
Apologize and Soon
MONEY TO BE PROVIDED
" CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mex., June 24.
"Mexico is a civilized country and will
wage war in a civilized manner."
General Jacinto B. Trevino, Carranza
commander at Chihuahua City, made
this assertion todny in denying reports
spread broadcast in the United States
that American prisoners taken in the
battle at Carrizal had been hanged.
"The prisoners have not been hanged,
nor will they be," he said. "That is not
the custom of a civilized country."
By JOHN EDWIN NEVIN
WASHINGTON, Juno 24. The war
spirit ran high In the nation's cnpltnl to
day. News of tho ambushing nnd virtual
massacre of Troops C and K, of tho 10th
United States Cavalry, has aroused official
dom to a pitch unknown since tho battle
ship Maine was destroyed In Havana har
bor. On all sides a demand for Bpeedy re
prisals was voiced, and the Administration
has set moving the machinery that may
bring a completo break with Mexico by the
middle of next week.
The drat action was to demand through
Consul General Rodgers nt Mexico City tho
release forthwith of tho American troopers
taken prisoners in the fighting at Carrizal,
the exact number of whom is not officially
known.
Tho second was to decide that any ofTer
of mediation that may be made on behalf
of the Latin-American nations must be re
jected by the United States. The questions
at Issue now are questions of national honor,
affecting the lives of Americans, the Inva
slon of American territory and outrages
upon American property. None of these are
matters that can bo submitted to mediation
In tho opinion of President Wilson and his
advisers.
MOMENTOUS CONFERENCE.
These decisions were reached at a confer
ence that lasted more than an hour, partic
ipated In by President Wilson, Secretary of
atate wwslng and Secretary of War Baker,
At the same time a general plan to be fol
lowed was considered, but was not adopted
pending the receipt of additional reports
from General Pershing and officers who
actually participated In the Carrizal mas
sacre. It has been definitely determined to hold
General Carranza responsible for the at
tack upon the Americans at Carrizal. He
will be called sharply to account as soon
as the complete report of what transpired
at that place Is at hand, and will be
ordered to punish all responsible officials
Immediately.
No satisfaction la expected at the hands
of tho Frist Chief and his associates, and
the program for the further course of
action Is being worked out In the several
departments. But that the State Depart
ment is holding back on certain portions of
Its program developed when It was learned
that Secretary Lansing had been Inquiring
anxiously when the National Guard would
be ready for service. The answer came at
noon today, when Secretary of War Baker,
following a. conference with General Mills,
chief of the militia division, sent word to
Continued on Fa( Two. Column Fli.
EXTRA
BOSTON,.
PHILLIES.
ATHLETICS lst
BOSTON
0 0 0
0 0 1
0 0 0 2 0 0 0
100000
Nnbors nnd Muvphyj Leonard and Carrignn.
ATHLETICS 2J.
BOSTON
DISSOLUTION ORDER AGAINST GLUCOSE TRUST
NEW YORK, June 21. Uuitcd States District Judge Hand to
day sustained the Government's suit' against the so-called; glucoso
and slnrcli tvust the Corn Products Company and ordered dissolu-'
tion o the combine which it wa alleged controlled GO per cent, of the
business 'in starch and glucose.
FORD OFFERS AID TO U. S. IN CASE OF WAR
DETKOIT, Mich., Juno 24. Henry Tord will build blast furnaces
costing $8,000,000, he said in an interview today. He offered to do
any service asked by the President iu case of. war.
COURT REFUSES TO HALT ORPET TRIAL
WAUKEGAN, 111-, Juno 2. Judge Chavles H, Donnelly this
afternoon overruled a motion to dismiss the jury in Will Orpet'a trial
for Marlon. Lambert's murder and ordered the defense to proceed with
its case when court la resumed Monday,
4- Si
& h
liiifcML.
MEXICANS PROMISE TO RELEASE AMERICAN COLONISTS
WASHINGTON, Juno 24. Release of the B0 or more Americans in the Guana
juato colony from Carranzlsta detention was promised today by Mexico City author
Ulea, according to a telegram from Consul Itodgers to the State Department.
BRITISH LINER LOST IN WHITE SEA
LONDON, June 21. The Wilson liner Sapho has been lost in the White Sea,
It was announced today. Eighteen members of the crew perished. (The Sapho
displaced 1694 tons, was built in 1903 and hailed from Hull. It has recently been
plying between England and the Russian port of Archangel.)
NIGHT
EXTRA
PJRIOE ONE CENT
4
tr. S. CAVALRY ON RESCUE DASH
CLASHES WITH CARHANZISTAS
EL PASO, Tex., Juno 24 Troopers of the 11th Cavalry, riding
to the rescue of possible survivors of the Carranza treachery nt Car
rlznl, encountered n force of Carranzistaa near San Fcninildos and
wcto engaged in battle. This report was received in 131 Paso shortly
before Hobii today. No official confirmation could-bo obtained from
aencrnl Bell nt Tort Bliss.
HOST OF ADMEN
INVADES" CITY;
10,000 TO COME
Their Presence a Stimulus to
Community Which Wel
comes Them
MEANS A NEW EPOCH
Five Days of Activity That
Promises Beneficent
Results j
Poor Richard President
Welcomes Ad Delegates
"Philadelphia is ready for tho
convention. Tho Poor Richard Club
and the people of this city bid you
welcome. The doors of the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania nnd the
Commercial Museum nre wide open.
"Those, wc believe, arc the best ac
commodations you hnve ever had for
your general and departmental ses
sions. "We have provided well for your
comfort and entertainment. Wo
want to make this a memorable
business vacation for you. Some
worth-while diversion is planned for
you each day after school. You
needn't go to bed until you're real
tired and sleepy.
"RICHARD H. DURBIN,
"President Poor Ricltard Club."
Tho vanguard of an army of more than
10,000 nrtmen began arriving today for the
12th annual convention of tho Associated
Advertising Clubs ot tho World, which con
venes In this city tomorrow. Already the
city Is beginning to feci the Btlmulua of these
bright, resourceful men, who have como here
from all parts of tho world to blazo now
trails In advertising and business. Their
optimism Is brightening hotel lobbies nnd
their energy Is Injecting new life Into Phlla
dclphta. The fame of Philadelphia ns tho world's
workshop, a city of honesty and high Ideals
and a city of wonderful attainment, will be
spread to tho corners of tho earth following
tho convention. Tho great assemblage also
promises to bring homo ;to thousands of In
different merchants nnd manufacturers
throughout tho land tho valuo of advertis
ing as an cffcrtlvo Belling' force.
Tho convention will hold forth for flv
days and every mlnuto of tho total of 120
jhoura wU bo brimful, of 'action-which -will
forever blast tho unjust libel that Philadel
phia Is like tho proverbial mulo for slow
ness. Tho convention will servo ns a. mighty
dynamo of brain energy which will send
Contlnurd on Tare 4, Column 12, Amnseraeot
hrctlon.
MT. GRETNA CAMP
RINGS WITH CALL
'TO THE BORDER!'
Prospect of Moving to Rio
Grande Within Week
Stirs.Troops
4000 'GUARDSMEN ARRIVE
By a Staff Correspondent
HEADQUARTERS CAMP BRUMBAUGH.
MT. GRET-VA. Pa.. June 21. "To the
border!"
Lllio lightning strokes today came orders
that are Interpreted as constituting virtual
confirmation of rumors that the Pennsyl
vania division of tho National Guard will
bo hurried to the Mexican border within a.
week's time, while the regiments poured
Into tho encampment and pitched their yel
low tents.
Typhoid prophylaxis, enough for the first
Injection, nrrlved at the Mt. Gretna station,
and probably late this afternoon the work
of Inoculating the rapidly growing army
of guardsmen will be undertaken by the
medical officers. Only the first of the three
Injections la to be administered here, It Is
understood on good authority, leaving the
other two Injections to bo given "after the
troops leave." TJhe Interval' between Injec
tions Is 10 days.
Newspaper correspondents today wero In
structed at division headquarters to order
regulation khaki Held uniforms,
A denial of an Insistent rumor that the
Guard alrea'dy had been ordered to the
border was Issued today by Captain Kem
per, United States mustering officer.
"It la news to me," he said. He was busy
with the mustering blanks, which arrived
today from Washington.
4000 AT CAMP.
About 4000 Guardsmen have already ar
rived here, with the number growing. A
freight wreck tied up several of the troop
trains for hours, but tho routes north and
south nqw are open and the trains bearing
the units are coming In with regularity.
The 1st Brigade, ot Philadelphia, the first
Infantry contingent fo arrive this morning,
sent three companies to unload the brigade
stores, which were shipped to Colebrook.
Tho 2d Brigade la complete, with general
Logan In corhmand, The regiments com
prising this brigade are the 16th, Colonel
Rlckards; the 10th, Colonel Coulter, and
the 18th, Colonel Kearns. Scattered units
of the 4th Brigade also are detraining at
Mount Gretna.
Rumors of a, hurried removal to th
border added to the hustle of the camp.
Centlaud on Fate Wit, Column Twa
ppp and Bijsky Say the German and British Navies Need an Official Scorer; Read Their Discussion in the Amusement Section
,K
I
'.
I
is
411
"if!
ill
w
y
