&
&:. fcv
Republican
REPUBLICAN PLATFORM
It Calls For Preparedness and
Protection of American Rights.
Chicago, June 10.Following is the plat
form adopted by the Republican national
convention:
In 1861 the Republican party stood for
the Union. As it stood for the union of
Btates it now stands for a united people,
true to American ideals, -loyal to Ameri
can traditions, knowing no allegiance ex
cept to the constitution, to the govern
ment and to the flag of the United States.
We believe in American policies at home
and abroad.
Protection of American Rights.
We declare that we believe in and will
enforce the protection of every American
citizen in all the rights secured to him by
the constitution, treaties and the law of
nations, at home and abroad, by land and
sea. These rights, which, in violation of
the specific promise of their party, made
at Baltimore in 1912, the Democratic pres
ident and the Democratic congress have
failed to defend, we will unflinchingly
maintain.
We desire peace, the peace of justice
and right, and believe In maintaining a
straight and honest neutrality between
the belligerents in the great war in Eu
rope. We must perform all our duties and
insist upon all our rights as neutrals, with
out fear and without favor. We believe
that peace and neutrality as well as the
dignity and influence of the United States
cannot be preserved by shifty expedients,
by phrasemaklng, by performances in lan
guage or by attitudes ever changing In
an effort to secure groups of voters.
The present administration has destroy
ed our influence abroad and humiliated us
in our own eyea The Republican party
believes that a Arm, consistent and cour
ageous foreign policy, always maintained
by Republican presidents In accordance
with American traditions is the best, as
It Is the only true way to preserve our
peace and restore us to our rightful place
among the nations. We believe in the pa
cific settlement of international disputes
and favor the establishment of a world
court for that purpose.
Mexioo.
We deeply sympathize with the 15,000,000
people of Mexico who, for three years,
Have seen their country devastated, their
homes destroyed, their fellow citizens
murdered and- their women outraged by
armed bands of desperadoes led by self
seeking, conscienceless agitators.
We express our horror and indignation
at the outrages which have been and are
being perpetrated by these bandits upon
American men and women who were or
are in Mexico by invitation of the laws
and of the government of that country
and whose rights to security of person
and property are guaranteed by solemn
treaty obligations. We denounce the in
defensible methods of interference em
ployed .by this administration in the in
ternal affairs of Mexico and refer with
shame to its failure to discharge the duty
of this country .as next friend to Mexico,
its duty to other powers who have relied
upon us as such friend and its duty to our
citizens in Mexico in permitting the con
tinuance of such conditions, first, by fail
ure to act promptly and firmly, and, sec
ond, by lending its influence to the con
tinuation of such conditions through rec
ognition of one of the factions responsible
for these outrages.
We pledge our aid in restoring order and
maintaining peace in Mexico. We prom
ise to our citizens on and near our border
and to those in Mexico, wherever they
may be found, adequate and absolute pro
tection in their lives, liberty and property.
Monro* Doctrine.
We reaffirm our approval of the Mon
roe doctrine and declare its maintenance
to be a policy of this country essential
to its present and future peace and safety
and to the achievement of its manifest
destiny.
Latin Amerioa.
We favor the continuation of Republican
policies, which will result In drawing mora
and mora closely the commercial, finan
cial and social relations between this coun
try and the countries of Latin America.
^ii&teh&ZiikiiMf',, Ytfht 'A&N&.' tYfi'-^
FOR PRESIDENT
Charles Evans Hughes
OF NEW YORK
Philippines.
We renew our allegiance to the Philip
pine policy inaugurated Jijr Mckinley, ap
proved by congress and consistently car
ried out by Roosevelt and Taft Even in
this short time it has enormously improv
ed the material and social conditions of
the islands, given the Philippine people a
constantly increasing participation in their
government and, if persisted in, will bring
still greater benefits in the future.
We condemn the Democratic administra
tion for its attempt to abandon the Phil
ippines which was prevented only by the
vigorous opposition of Republican mem
bers of congress, aided by a few patriotic
Democrats
Treaty With Russia.
We reiterate our unqualified approval of
the action taken in December, 1911, by
the president and congress to secure with
Russia, as with other countries, a treatv
that will recognize the absolute right ot
expatriation and prevent all discrimina
tion of whatever kind between American
citizens, whether native born or alien,
and regardless of race, religion or pre
vious political allegiance. We renew the
pledge to observe this principle and to
maintain the right of asylum, which is
neither to be surrendered nor restricted,
and we unite in the cherished hope that
the war which is now desolating the world
may speedily end with a complete and
lasting restoration of brotherhood among
the nations of the earth and the assur
ance of full equal rights, civil and reli
gious, to all men in every land
Protection of the Country.
In order to maintain our peace and
make certain 'the security of our people
within our own borders, the country must
have not only adequate, but thorough and
complete national defense, ready for any
emergency. We must have a sufficient
nd effective regular army and a provi
sion for ample reserves, already drilled
and disciplined, who can be called at once
to the colors when danger comes.
We must have a navy so strong and so
well proportioned and equipped, ,so thor
oughly ready and prepared that no enemy
can gain eommand of the sea and effect a
landing in force on either our western or
our eastern coasts. To secure these re
sults we must have a coherent and con
tinuous policy of national defense, which
even in these perilous days the Democrat
ic party has utterly failed to develop, but
which we promise to give to the country.
Tariff.
The Republican party stands now, as
always, in the fullest sense for the policy
of tariff protection to American industries
and American labor and does not regard
an anti-dumping provision as an adequate
substitute. Such protection should be rea
sonable in amount, but sufficient to pro
tect adequately American industry and
American labor and be so adjusted as to
prevent undue exactions by monopolies or
trusts. It should, moreover, give special
attention to securing the Industrial Inde
pendence of the United States, as in the
case of dyestuffs.
Through wise tariff and industrial legis
lation our industries can be so organized
that they will become not only a commer
cial bulwark, but a powerful aid to na
tional defense.
The Underwood tariff act la a complete
ranure every respect. Under its admin
istration Imports have enormously in
creased in spite of the fact that the inter
course with foreign countries has been
largely cut off by reason of the war, while
the revenues, of which we stand in such
dire need, have been greatly reduced. Un
der the normal conditions which prevailed
prior to the war, it was clearly demon
strated that this act deprived the Amer
ican producer and the American wage
earner of that protection which entitled
them to, meet their foreign competitors,
and, but for the adventitious conditions
created by the war, would long since have
paralysed all forms of American indus
try and deprived American labor of its
just reward.
it has not in the least reduced the cost
of living, which has constantly advanced
from the data of its enactment The wel
fare of our people demands its repeal and
the substitution of a measure which, in
peace as well aa in war, will produce am
ple revenue and.give reasonable protec
tion to all forms of American production
In mine, forest, field and factory.
We faror the creation of a tariff com
mission, with complete power to gather
4 anmnO* lafamuiUa *m k* mmm
*^^^MM4Mir^2:m
congress in all matters relating to the
tariff.
Business.
The Republican party has long believed
in the rigid supervision and strict regula
tion of transportation and great cor
porations of the country It has put its
creed into its deeds, and all really effec
tive laws regulating the railroads and the
great industrial corporations are the work
of Republican congresses and presidents
For this policy of regulation and super
vision the Democrats, in a stumbling and
piecemeal way, are undertaking to involve
the government in business which should
be left within the sphere of private en
terprise and indirect competition with its
own citizens, a policy which is sure to re
sult in waste, great expense to the tax
payer and in an inferior product
The Republican party firmly believes
that all who violate the laws in regula
tion of business should be individually
punished But prosecution is very differ
ent from persecution, and business sue
cess, no matter how honestly attained, is
apparently regarded by the Democratic
party as in itself a crime. Such doctrines
and beliefs choke enterprise and stifle
prosperity. The Republican party believes
in encouraging American business as it
believes in and will seek to advance all
American interests.
Rural Credits.
We favor an effective system of rural
credits as opposed to the ineffective law
proposed by the present Democratic ad
ministration.
Rural Free Delivery.
We favor the extension of the rural free
delivery system and condemn the Demo
cratic administration for curtailing and
crippling it.
Merchant Marine.
In view of the policies adopted by all
the maritime nations to encourage their
shipping interests, and in order to enable
us to compete with them for the ocean
carrying trade, we favor the payment to
ships engaged in the foreign trade of lib
eral compensation for services actually
rendered in carrying the mails and such
further legislation as will build up an ade
quate American merchant marine and
give us ships which may be requisitioned
by the government in time of national
emergency. I
We are utterly opposed to the govern
ment ownership of vessels as proposed by
the Democratic party because government
owned ships, while effectively preventing
the development of the American mer
chant marine by private capital, will be
entirely unable to provide for the vast
volume of American freights and will
leave us more helpless than ever in the
hard grip of foreign syndicates.
Transportation.
Interstate and intrastate transportation
has become so interwoven that the at
tempt to apply two and often several sets
of laws to its regulation has produced
conflicts of authority, embarrassment in
operation and inconvenience and expense
to. the public.
The entire transportation system of the
country has become essentially national.
We, therefore, favor such action by legis
lation or, if. necessary, through an amend
ment to the constitution of the United
States as will result in placing it under
exclusive federal control.
Economy and a National Budget.
The increasing cost of the national gov
ernment and the need for the greatest
economy of Its resources, in nrder tn maat
cne growing demands ot the people for
government service, call for the severest
condemnation of the wasteful appropria
tions of this Democratic administration,
of its shameless raids on the treasury and
of its opposition to and rejection of Presi
dent Taft's oft repeated proposals and
earnest efforts to secure economy and ef
ficiency through the establishment of a
simple, businesslike budget system, to
which we pledge our support
Conservation.
We believe in a careful husbandry of
all the natural resources of the nationa
husbandry which means development
without waste, use without abuse.
Civil 8rviea Reform.
The dvfl service law has always been
sustained by the Republican party, and
wa renew our repeated declaration that
ft shall h* thnnma-hlv *n4 hmuMM* __
Defective Page
FOR VICE PRESIDENT
Charles ^P^Fairfeaiiks
OF INDIA NA
&&&-
lorced and extended' wherever practicable.
The Democratic party hat) created since
March 4, 1913, 80.000 officer outside of the
civil service law at an annual cost of $44,-
000.000 to the taxpayers of .Ihe country.
aniwia
of .Ihe
&2jjar T#r^oriajy^yjors.
Reaffirming the attitude long maintained
by the Republican party, we hold that offi
cials appointed to administer the govern
ment of any territory should be bona fide
residents of the territory in which their
duties are to be performed.
Labor Laws.
We pledge the Republican party to the
faithful enforcement of all federal laws
passed for the protection of labor. We
favor vocational education, the enactment
and rigid enforcement of a federal child
labor law, the enactment of a generous
and comprehensive workmen's compensa
tion law, within the commerce power of
congress, and an accident compensation
law covering all government employees.
We favor the collection and collation un
der the direction of the department of la
bor of complete data relating to industrial
hazards for the information of congress,
to the end that such legislation may be
adopted as may be calculated to secure
the safety, conservation and protection of
labor from the dangers incident to indus
try and transportation
Suffrage.
The Republican party, reaffirming its
faith of government of the people, by the
people, for the people, as a measure of
justice to one-half the adult people of
this country, favors the extension of the
suffrage to women, but recognizes the
right of each state to settle this question
for itself.
Such are our principles, such are our
purposes and policies. We close as we
began. The times are dangerous and the
future Is fraught with peril. We ap
peal to all Americans, whether natural
ised or native born, to prove to the world
that we are Americans in thought and in
deed, with one loyalty, one hope, one as
piration. We call on all Americans to be
true to the spirit of America, to the great
traditions of their common country and,
above all things, to keep the faith.
JAIL BETTER THAN HOWE.
Kruso Paid to Stay There Rather
Than With His Relatives.
Chicago. 7August Kruse, who for
five years has been a voluntary Inmate
of the Du Page county jail at Wheaton,
111., rather than live* with "relatives,
who doubted his sanity, told the sher
iff he was going west to live, on a
farm.
Kruse paid the county $1 a day for
the privilege of living in the jail. In
1906 a petition to have him declared
insane was heard in the county court
He was found to be sane, but would
not return to his home, and after five
years' absence returned to Wheaton
and arranged for quarters in the same
jail to which he had been taken years
before.
"I want to get back to the farm,"
said Kruse. "I sit here and think of
what I used to do, and I'm going to be
gin over again. I'm going away off,
though, not back to the old farm."
FALL CORRECTS HIS VISION.
Broker Hits His Head on Sidewalk and
Doesn't Need Glasses.
Pittsfield, Mass.Henry Travers, Jr.,
Insurance and real estate broker, fell
on an ley sidewalk recently, striking
on his head and neck.
For several years Mr. Travers had
worn glasses, but upon returning to
bis office after the fall he discovered
he could see better and could read
without them. Mr. Travers does not
urge this method of treatment for fail
ing eyesight
HOTEL FO GIRLS. IS,
Home Bequeathed to Workers by
New York Merchant.
EXPERIENCE SHOWED NEED.
Suggests That Hotel For Unmarried
Working Women Be Erected In
Business District, but Does Not Con
fine Executors to Any One Region.
New York.Charles Bertram Web
ster, a merchant who died March 16
last, bequeathed about one-third of his
large- estate for the foundation of a
corporation which is directed to erect
in the retail dry goods district ah
apartment house wherein unmarried
working women shall have apartments
at cost
The decedent, who for many years
lived at the Hotel Netherland, was a
native of Providence, R. I., a son of
Josiah L. Webster, a dry goods iner
chant there. He came to New York
i early in life. In 1896 he retired from
active business, but never lost his in
terest in it or in the people who work
ed for. the firm.
Before providing for the project
which had long been in his mind, Mr.
Webster bequeathed to five cousins
$5,000 each, set aside $25,000 to Thom
as W. Beckley, described as a "serv
ant" and gave $10,000 to his coach
man, Frank Falkner.
He bequeathed to Joseph L. Web
ster, his brother, all his horses, car
riages, harness, clothing, jewelry and
automobiles and two-thirds of Ms re
siduary estate. He then said:
"Having been engaged for many
years in the business known as a de
partment store in the city of New York
and having employed a large number
of unmarried women in that business.
I have realized that the domestic envi
ronihents of many of them are not con
ducive to their morals or health, and I
have concluded to endeavor to improve
the condition of some of them by giv
ing them the opportunity to live in
clean, well ventilated, comfortable and
attractive apartments, and for that
purpose I direct my executors to form,
or cause to be formed, as soon as prac
ticable after my death a corporation for
benevolent purposes under the mem
bership corporation law of the state of
New York or under such other law of
the state of New York as may be ap
plicable at the time.
"The particular objects for which
such corporation is to be formed are to
generally improve the conditions of un
married working women and particu
larly to establish, maintain and con
duct apartments in the borough of
Manhattan for occupation by unmar
ried working women regardless of their
religious belief or nationality and
wherein they may find comfortable and
attractive homes.
"The name of said corporation shall
be the Webster apartments, and the
territory in which the corporation shall
be principally conducted shall be the
borough of Manhattan."
The decedent suggests that the build
ing be erected in the vicinity of the re
tail stores, but does not confine the ex
ecutors to any particular district. He
says he thinks the sort of building he
desires can be erected and equipped for
about $400,000, but he does not confine
his agents to this sum. They can spend
more if they think necessary,
i "The building shall contain a library
and restaurant," directs the decedent,
"and such other appurtenances as will
tend to render the apartments com
fortable and attractive. Apartments
are to be let furnished and unfurnished.
"I direct that said apartments shall
not be conducted for profit, but solely
for the purpose of providing unmarried
working women with homes and whole
some food at a small cost to them and
in deserving cases without cost to them.
I direct that the directors of said cor
poration shall fix the rentals and the
prices of food with the view of carry
ing out that purpose. The cost of main
taining the apartment and restaurant
in excess of the receipts therefrom shall
be met from such income as the corpo
ration may have exclusive of the re
ceipts from said restaurant and rent-
als."
The decedent asks the executors to
serve as officers of the corporation until
the first annual meeting.
FED APRICOTS TO HOGS.
Fruit Market Was Glutted and In That
Way Francis Used His.
Pomona, Cal.Apricot ham is the
latest novelty in this community. C.
C. Francis, who has a ranch near here,
is the producer. Last summer his apri
cot crop was going to waste because
the market was glutted, so he fed the
apricots to his hogs.
He butchered two shoats the other
day. They each tipped the beam at
245 pounds. He got fifteen gallons of
lard, Seven pounds of sausage, four
splendid hams, some spareribs, a quan
tity of side meat, eight pigs' feet and
100 pounds of soap out of the kill.
The hogs were carried through the
summer and fall on waste fruit, and
this winter they were finished on or
anges and cornmeal slop. Mr. Francis
declares that the high cost of living
won't worry him for awhile it least
$100 A WEEK CANT PAY WIFE
Automobile Upkeep Takes Big Part of
Jersey Man's Wages.
Jersey City. Gordon J. Hague of
Paterson told Vice Chancellor Lewis
that he had not been able to pay his
wife alimony as directed because he
had only $6.72 left out of his weekly
salary of $100 after paying his board
and the upkeep of his automobile.
is*-
ON TRAIN SEES
SON'S BODY ON RIVER BANK
Cars Are Stopped In California, and
Father Identifies Corpse of the Lad.
Redding, Cal.While riding on the
train from Delta to Redding, Mrs.
Frank Brown, looking from a window,
saw a body on the bank of the Sacra
mento river. She screamed and said,
"There's my boy!"
The train was stopped, and Frank
Brown, the husband and father, step
ped to the rocks and identified the re
mains as those of his son Jesse, seven
teen years of age, who disappeared
from home Feb. 22.
Relatives hunted for two weeks and
then gave up the search. No surmise
can be made as to how he met his
death in the river, except that he fell
in while walking on the bank to avoid
being seen.
AFTER ICY BATH HE
WALKS IN UNDERWEAR
Fisherman Escapes Drowning,
but Goes Four Miles Bare
footed to Get Help.
Britton, S. D.Compelled to walk a
distance of four miles to the nearest
farmhouse barefooted and clad only in
his underclothing was the distressing
experience of John Knaak, a Marshall
county man, following a disaster which
overtook him while fishing on Roy lake,
some miles from here.
He was in a boat alone, and when he
attempted to make his way to shore
the boat, which it developed had been
overloaded with nets, sank to the bot
tom, throwing him into the icy waters
of the lake.
He managed to reach a nearby net
stake and, clinging to it, divested him
self of his rubber boots, oilskins and
all his wearing apparel but his under
clothes.
After resting for a time he started to
swim to shore, some distance away. He
reached shore in an exhausted condi
tion, and when he had somewhat re
covered himself he started on the pain
ful four mile journey to the farmhouse
for assistance.
MEN TALLER IN MORNING.
May Measure Half an Inch More After
Breakfast, Marine Examiners Say.
Washington.Men are taller in the
morning than in the evening, medical
examiners for the United States ma
rine corps declare, and the applicant
for enlistment who is of medium or
small stature has a better chance just
after breakfast to meet the height re
quirements than at any other time dur
ing the day.
The disks of cartilage between the
vertebrae of the backbone yield con
siderably to the pressure due to the
weight of the body when it is erect
and expand themselves while the body
is in a recumbent position.
This effect may amount to as much
as half an inch in the case of a heavy
many of, say, five feet ten inches in
height, according to the marine corps
medical examiners.
FINE DAY TO WED.
Girl Took Van Danacker After She Had
a Breath of Spring Air.
St. Paul, Minn.Wilfred Van Dan
acker of 459 Webster avenue strolled
downtown the other day to keep an en
gagement with a young woman.
"Wouldn't this be a fine day to get
married?" he queried to the young wo
man.
She took a deep breath of the warm
spring air and agreed.
So they were married twenty min
utes later by Harry Gallick, the court
commissioner.
"I'll bet I get mine when the folks
find out," the groom said. "Don't men
tion Missah, I mean Mrs. Van Dan
acker's name. She has got to give her
boss two weeks' notice."
HUNG HEAD DOWN 48 HOURS.
New York Farmer Was Caught by Feet
In Apple Tree.
Binghamton, N. Y.R. A. -Case of
Galena was trimming his apple trees
recently and slipped while up a tree.
His feet caught in a crooked limb, and
he hung head downward for forty
eight hours.
He was thought to be dead when dis
covered, but regained consciousness,
and the physicians hoped for his re
covery.
Angler Catches a Wildcat.
Lock Haven, Pa.Wildcats are fright
ening trout fishers in Wayne township,
Clinton county, and when they visit
the streams in that section they now
go armed. William H. Bierly of Wayne
started out recently for McElhattan
run, a short distance from his home.
He encountered three wildcats^ along
the stream. He made a hasty retreat
to his home and returned with his rifle.
Two of the cats bad disappeared, but
he killed the other one.
Wanted to Ba Fined.
Portland, Ore."I want to be fined.
That law ought to be enforced, and
rm willing to pay." B. A. Coe, post
master, at Svenson, -Ore., insisted be
fore Federal Judge Bean recently that
he ought to be fined. His son had op
erated a motorboat without having
sand aboard to extinguish fire. The
judge obliged him $5 worth.
OD TOWN INIOWA
Farmers Consolidate Interests,
Transact Business Profitably.
_J
FOUNDED AND RUN BY THEM.
Though Built Fourteen Years Ago,
When Railroad Was Constructed,
Fernald Has Population of Only 100,
but Air of Mutual Interest Would
Please Any One.
Des Moines, la.Out on the prairies
of Iowa is one of the most novel towns
of the country. There is no bickering
between townspeople and rural resi
dents, as is often the case. The farm
ers for miles around feel perfectly free
to go to town without wearing starch
ed shirts and collars. There is an air
of mutual interest between town and
country which would gladden the heart
of any rural life expert. The reason
for this is that the.town is owned by
the farmers themselves.
When he goes to town to buy a bar of
soap or a new plow the farmer buys of
himself, or rather he is a partner in the
store. When he goes to the elevator he
sells to his company the grain he has
brought in. Perhaps his next stop will
be at a bank owned and managed by
the farmers themselves.
The town is named Fernald. All of
its business enterprises are owned by
farmers living within a radius of three
or four miles. Though built fourteen
years ago, when the railroad was built,
Fernald has a population of only 100
and probably will not grow much
larger in the years to come, because of
the nearness of numerous other towns.
But this does not mean that Fernald
does not expect to grow and prosper,
for the farsighted farmers who own
the town do practically all of their
trading there instead of patronizing
mail order houses or buying in neigh
boring towns. In fact, the town is just
a big social center for the whole com
munity.
The town was founded by the farm
ers in order to avoid making long hauls
in delivering crops to the railroad. A
line elevator was built shortly after
the town was founded, but it was not
until about two years ago that it was
purchased by a group of farmers op
erating under the name of the Farm
ers' Grain company. H. S. Fleagle, the
farmer who put through the deal, was
made manager of the elevator. The in
vestment proved a wise one, for in the
first year under the new management
the elevator paid a profit of 95 per cent
on the $5,000 capital.
The Farmers' Lumber company was
organized by four farmers with a cap
italization of $6,400. Mr. Fleagle also
manages the affairs of this company
and its $10,000 stock. Another enter
prise founded by the farmers was the
Farmers' Co-operative Mercantile com
pany. After a brief period of competi
tion the rival mercantile store was
compelled to close its doors, leaving the
management of the town and its busi
ness affairs entirely in the hands of
the farmers themselves.
The town's founders then establish
ed the Farmers' Savings bank, with a
capital of $10,000. The deposits have
reached the $40,000 mark in three years.
Mr. Fleagle's ability for management
was recognized a third time when he
was made vice president of the bank.
Fernald is in Richland township, in
Storey county. Extensive use of tile
has converted the ordinary prairie land
into some of the most valuable farms
in the state.
CONVICTS FIND NEED OF SAFE.
Sing Sing Welfare League Locke Up
Its Treasures.
Ossining. Charles Gondorf, wire
tapper and secretary of the Mutual
Welfare league of Sing Sing prison,
has Installed a big safe in the league
quarters to hold the books and treas
ures safely from the fingers of league
members who might forget the honor
system and yield to temptation.
First Deputy Sergeant-at-Arms Lutz,
for several weeks assistant to Peter
Cullen, the sergeant and prison bride
groom, has resigned his post Ser
geant-at-Arms James Green, Cullen's
successor, will appoint an assistant to
succeed Lutz.
JOKE A SLOW BOOMERANG.
Recipient of Note Takes Up Matter
and Clerk Loses Job.
WInsted, Conn.Linus A. H11L for
seven years a clerk In the postoffice In
Wallingford, seven months ago sent a
letter to a town official calling atten
tion to the fact that the "town clock
was on strike."
Hill Inserted the joke In a franked
envelope. The recipient took up the
matter with the postoffice department
at Washington, with the result that
Hill has been dismissed.
Finds Oxsn Handy.
Flndlay, O.The twentieth century
rapid mode of traveling via the auto
mobile has nothing on Wlnfleld S. Ba
der of McComb. He owns a team of
oxen, and with them he does nearly all
his farm work. Within the past few
weeks the team has pulled eight auto
mobiles out of the mud near Rader'g
home.
Four Children In a Year.
Bristol, Tenn.Mrs. Rufus Jones of
Dante, a coal mining town in Russell
county, has the distinction of having
become the mother of four children
within twelve months. In March, 1915,
twins were born to her, and on Feb. 29,
this leap year, twins were again born
to her.
i, a
