WEATHER
MARKETS
mm .
ARIZONA Generally
fair.
MEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
June 21, 26.71.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 19, NO. 24.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, JUNE 24, 1916.
PRICE HVE CENTS.
MnfSQP IK1TF5:
IIUUUL IUILU;
RESOLUTION !
10 DRAFT i
GUARDS i
NEW MEXICO RAISING
COWBOY REGIMENT
Empowers President To Use
All Who Consent In Mexi
can Campaign. Senate To
Pass It Today
2 REPRESENTATIVES
ALONE OPPOSE IT
Republican Members Declare
State Of War Exists. Fi
nancial Aid Voted For
Guards' Families
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. June 23. legisla
tive Approval of President Wilson's
use of the national guard in the Mexi
co crisis was voted almost unani
mously, by the House today. In adopt
ing ,a resolution declaring the exist
ence of an emergency and giving the
President a free hand to draft as fed
eral so'diers all guardsmen willing to
take the oath. The Senate la expect
ed to concur tomorrow.
1, million dolors would be snpro
priated by the resolution to aid de
pendent families of the guardsmen so
drafted. Distribution of the fund will
be left to the war department with the
restriction that no family should re
ceive more than $r0 a month. Only
two representatives a Socialist and a
Democrat, voted against the resolu
tion. G. O. P. Sav War Is On.
Dunne the debate, preceding its
dootlon... several Republicans at
tacked the administration's Mexican
nalicy rr."-fnnistf fl " that President
Wilson should have informed Congress
of the emergency instead of expect
In? it to act. on its own intiative. No
one attempted to deny however, that
pn e-nereency bad arisen and Republi
can Leader Mann. Former Sneaker
Cannon and others declared that in
reality a state of war exists.
Chairman Hay of the military com
mittee, author of the resolution, told
the House that it was presented by
the administration as a measure ne
cessary in tbe present situation and
rot as a declaration that a state of
war exists or was to be contemplated.
Cm Draft Guard.
As Introduced the resolution mere
lv authorized the President to draft
guardsmen "whenever in his opinion
jin emergency exists which demands
the use of troops in addition to the
regular army.
The amendment making it declare
that. In the opinion of Congress, such
an emergency has arisen now. was
offered by Representative Hay him
self .and was adopted unanimously.
After consultation with. Mr. Mann. Mr.
Hev also chaneed the language of the
resolution so that the period of serv
ice for which guardsmen could be
drafted would be limited to three
years.
' A provision for relief of guards
men's families has been proposed by
Chairman Hay as a separate bill. Af
ter the resolution was under debate,
he decided to Incorporate a relief ap
propriation in it and when the amend
ment was offered it was adopted un
animously. Senate to Rush.
As soon as the final vote In the res
olution had been taken it was sent
over to the Sen?te where it arrived
mst as adjournment was being taken.
It was referred to the military com
mittee with the announcement that
unanimous consent would be asked to
consider it tomorrow.
A proposal to authorize the Presi
dent to draft trembers or the naval
mil'tia in time of emcrgeily also was
Introduce in the House today. It
was attached to a naval militia pay
bill submitted by Chairman Padgett
of the naval committee and would
Kive authority for enrollment of naval
militiamen, as "national naval volun
teers' whenever the President should
see fit to call on them.
Investigate Backsliders.
Tbe refusal or more than a hundred
members of the national guard of
Texas. Arizona and New. Mexico to
enter the rederal service in response
to the President's call, found an echo
during the debate today. Representa
tive Gardner announcing he may ofrer
a resolution for a Congressional in
vestigation and Chairman Hay an
nouncing that he would do every
thine possible to see that such a pro
posal if Introduced be promptly re
ported bv the militia committee. Later
Mr. Gardner decided to Introduce the
resolution and it went to the commit
tee. DROPS BOBS ON VENICE.
VENICE. June 23. Austrian aero
planes dropned bombs on Venice this
morning killing six persona. The
material damage was insignificant.
COLUMBUS. June 23. W.
C. McDonald, governor of
New Mexico, and Harry T. Her
ring, adjutant general of the
New Mexico national guard,
today inspected the state mili
tia here. Governor McDonald
announced that a regiment of
cowboy cavalrymen is being
raised in the state for volunteer
service. Truck trains which
left here loaded with supplies
for General Pershing's com
mand, carried double guards
and were accompanied by mot
orcycle scouts, who were arm
ed with machine guns mount
ed on tri-cycles;
mi TR00
I:
;
:i
;
i
Germans Gain 3
Miles in Fierce
Fight at Verdon
(By Review Leased Wire.)
PARIS, June 23. In fierce
ftehting in the region northeast
of Vermin, the Germans today
carried French first line trenches
between Hills 321 and 320, and
also the Thiaumont works, accord
ing to the French official com
munication issued tonight. The
Germans also drove their attack
to ss far ps the village of Fleury
about three and a half miles t
northeast of Verdun, but here
they were repulsed. In the other
sectors of this reeion heavy of
fensives by the Germans were
stopped by the French fire '
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., June
23. The two trooos of the Tenth
cavalry under Captain Charles
T. Boyd were practically wiped
out by the attacking Mexican
forces under General Gomez at
Carrizal June 21, according to in
dication alven In fragmentary
reoorts received by General Funs
ten from General Pershing to
' night. ,
General Pershine's mesaee stated
that seven survivors Jn all including
thos" who arrived last night, have
i reached the main column." All were
(By Review Leased Wire.) j enlisted men. buf the report did not
VERA CRUZ, June 23. Vera Cruz say whether there were non-commis-
is filled with refugee Americans, sioned officers among them.
n P f I CARRANZA'S DEADLINE FOR U. S. ARMY I
U W ! - I I
lU r .Sagr--J , r r - j ?-i j :
PERSHING j: pf)
REPORTS i fflSA- i
i
i t Buenaventura ;
U i . ' i
I ) c v 1
Qfafrro Vjsaniquipa J
A PERSHING'S I x I
J MAIN J
v W HtADQUARTERSv
i :.
ON "HOT TRAIL"
MAY CROSS BORDER
COLl'MBl'S. June 23. An
American cavalry patrol to
night was pursuing a small
band of Mexicans, who today
were reported to have raided
the Parker Ranch. 35 miles
southwest of Hachita. Reports
to Col. H. G. Sickle, command
ing the border patrol here in
dicated that the Mexicans
were making for the border.
It was assumed that if they
crossed the frontier, the cavalr
rynien following a "hot trail"
also crossed in pursuit.
The bandits escaped with
several bead of horses and
mules but no other damage
was reported here.
,
!
.Only Seven Survivors Reach
Expedition From Massacre
At Carrizal, Tell The
Tale
i TREACHERY DONE BY
j OVERWHELMING FORCE
'Surrounded On Three Sidles
Raked By Machine Guns j
And Charged By Cavalry, ! I
rorce Dies Game
SUPPORT GIVEN
I GUARDS
III COT OF
100,000 OF
S TO
SPEED 10
EH
In orderinr the LTnid Stat tn witMr. iAA..a r
General trranza drew a deadline below Namiquipa. below which Amer
lean soldiers could not go without danger of war with Mexico. The dotted
line shows the route of the troops south, and Carranza insists that the aoi
fliers return by the same route forthwith.
Refugees Pour
Into Vera Cruz
By the Hundreds
awaiting opportunity to sail for the
United States. Every train arriving
here brings from fifty to 100 men.
women and children. Many are
quartered on the battleship Nebraska
awaitintr transfer to the first available ,
steamship.
, Tonight a special train of ten box I
cars, carrying from 500 to 600 re-j
fugees is expected. All available!
I'joniing space now is occupied. Spe
cial launches are being run to the
Nebraska at intervals of two hours.
Consul Canada said today that It'
Accordina to the stories of the ,
survivors as outPned in General
Pershino's renort a mounted force
of Mexicans made a eharoe frem
the flank, at the conclu:on of a
narlev between Captain Boyd and
Ceneraf Gomez, at the same time
that Jt mashing oiin . ooenH Tre
from the front as Gomez reached
j his lines.
I Cantain Boyd had ordered his men
to dismount ps the machine, gun
onened fire, and the combined effect
of the Mexican charce. the machine
i
10 011 PllnDnC PADTnlM MflDCV
uumiuu uhi mm iiiuiili
l CHIP AT FEARED LOST !
IIW IN BATTLE i
; Meeting Held At Which Un-
qualified Support Is As-
! sured Those Who Have En f
j rolled For City's Protection;
unnr xtrmornc adf
WANTED BY SQUADS
Seventy Five Thousand
Rounds Of Ammunition
Available. Other Parts Of
District Are Protected
The Bisbe Home Guards con.
sist of three companies. A. B.
and C.
Company A covers the lower
' F.nlUrmenU C.nmnr In Rv' Sixfv Hours Pa With Nn Of. ! part of the city. The officials
! - , , J r . , . 'are: Captain O. G. Waoer, Lieot-
Thousands. Veteran Cani
adian Captain' Enlists As'
Private i
ficer Reporting: Only Few!
Soldiers Get Back. .Tell Of!
Trick
. . , .. I gun fire and the rifle fire
the arrivals there, are ma
have means trj pay for accomodations
but no accomodations are available,
Everywhere the order of General Car
ranza not to molest those Americans
who were seeking ft leave the coun
try has been scrupulously observed.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NEW YORK. June 23. National j
guardsmen in mobilization camps in
(By Review Leased Wire.)
FIELD HEADQUARTERS. Colon i a
Dublan, Chi.. June 23 (via wireless to
,.,iihe states included in the department . . " . . ' A , ,
from the, mlanH f vir Columbus). That Captain Lewis
ZJ 7? Slal Ird Wjd, now number Morey either dead or a Pr.smer
fi.M. ! American force under cover of the I?'21'- it was of f.cmlly announced at was the assumption reached here to-
VERA CRUZ, June 23. At 6:40 o'
clock tonight a special train of eight
box cars carrying Americans and their
baggage arrived here after being on
the road for nearly 36 hours.
United States consul W. W. Cana
da today advised the State Depart
ment of trouble at Del Carmen, a port
on the coast of Mexico, between Coat
zacoalcos (Puerto Mexico) and Fron
teras and in response to his call the
gunboat Wheeling was setn to Del
Carmen. The Wheeling took off be
tween 30 and 40 Americans. All Am
ericans at Puerto Mexico were order
ed to board ships in the harbor tonight.
parley sought by General Gomez to
discuss whether Canfain Boyd should
be allowed to pass through the town.
I stampeded the horses. ' No details
jwere made known to General Persh
ling as to whether the Mexican charge
j was checked.
I Were Surrounded.
With their mounts none, nnd
caught without means of escaping,
ringed about on thrcl' sides with
the fire of an overwhelming force,
the fate of the little detachment
is believed by officers here to
have been sealed. It is declared
that only the most stupenduous
luck, backed by desperate valor,
could have extricated Captain
Boyd's men from the trap.
Over 12 Dead; 17 Captured.
The reoorts from Mexican forces
Governor's Island tonight. The total ; nipnt when no reports h9d be1 re.
is 8103 larger than- it was last night.
cejved from any of the three officers!
The record for sneed In niohilizatinn
is shared by New Jersey, Massachu- j who accompanied the troops of the
setts and the District of Columbia. AlHTentn cavalry engaged nt Carrizal on
thre had had all the units called out j Wednesday. Mexican reports said
in camp three dnys after receiving the i that Captain Charles T. Boyd and
war department order.
enant W. J. White, Wm
-nd J. C. BarkweM. .
Company B covers Quality K.'ll
and Mason Hilt. The officials
are: Captain Fred Hurst
Company C covers Tombstone
Canyon. The officials are: Capt
ain Lorenzo Wright, Lieutenant
F. C. Bennett. Tom Hargis.
The three companies consist of
200 men and the majority of them
are ex-soldiers.
Any experienced man In Bisbee
who has a rifle is requested to
to enroll with the company near
est his home.
I'nder the direction "of members of
the Commercial Club and aided by
every good citizen in the c'ty of
Red Tape Cast Aside In Mus
tering State Troops, Now
Directly Under Funston's
Charge
CONGRESS TAKES
VIGOROUS ACTION
House Votes To Federalize
Guards Now; Senate To
Do Same. Rumors Carran
za Weakening
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, June 23. The
national guard organizations
throughout the country were,
straining every nerve tonight to
prepare for active service on the
Mexican border. New orders
flashed 'over the wire by Sec re-
tary Baker bore a call for haste.
Red tape was cast aside and
authorization given undr,- which
the state soldiers will be rushed
to reinforce the border guards
at the earliest possible moment.
Theentire army of 100,000 men
summoned by President Wilson's
call was placed directly at Gen
eral Funston's disposal.
Congress Acts.
Congress also took timorous and far
reaching action. A rVi.lntt,n
' in the Mouse by
declares that
Ballard ! fnr the, use of troops In addition to
department order. Massachusetts j Lieutenant Henry Adair were among ! Bisbee the home guard organization w-i)son rou,j reach
approximately 6000 men in camp, j the dead. Although 60 hours have was made the subject of a meeting ' Hg artion rpm,.
has
while the full war strength would be elansed since the fight the only Word
9000. New Jersey has 5000 men en-1 of it has been brought to General
a vote of 37.2 to 2
an emergency calling
.regulars now exists and authorizes
111 ? Pr . lent to Srsfv Inimilitf - in
; to the service of the United States
j all members or the national guard
j who subscribe to the new oath for
.that service. In effect the measure
gives legislative approval of PnVal
; dent Wilson's call on stt soldiers
land provides for their use In or out
; of the United States. It also fur
nishes new machinery with which to
: hasten the strengthening of the bor-
der guard.
j The Senate probably mill pass the
resolution tomorrow.
Still Await News of Clash.
IMploniPtic aspects of the crisis rir-
tj lly wr unchanged. President
no final decision
resulting from the attack
by Mexican troops upon American
camped at Sea Girt, and the tull wa:
strength would be only 6544. There
are 7912 District of Columbia guards
men in camp; Maine s Second lnran
who ,
yesterday aftermAm and the ungual
i Ifiail annmtwt nt th. hituinaea ni.n !
mining men and all others was pledg- !'alr,men f"zal or aoon Amer
ed to the organization. ie8n bhiejackels at Mazatlan. Only
tk nreMminArv anil immuA fannr nn
rr.i l , i f 1 T-. . .v 1 1- -II U r '
mm nn uininieii mai ururim nidi me uusuit-ns mrii aim an um-: ("arrizil clash came from General
Felix Gomez the Mexican commander. ers sufficiently interested will sub-' p.-ui., Hni-in h hv if ...
Pershing by nine enlisted men
straggled into camp yesterday.
try is In camp 421 strong, while 320 land Captain Boyd, parleyed apparent-; scribe funds to purchase ammunition (,a8etj on ,he statement of stranglers
additional guardsmen are held Injly reaching an amicable conclusion j was assured last evening with the ap- ani nn woj haj e,,,. tmm the offi
barracks awaiting blankets. ; and that immediately afterward the pointment jf a financial "ommillw- Cers of the shattered detachment The
FIELD HOSPITAL
REACHES DOUGLAS:
One hundred men of the regular ar-
i lie oniv Troons v onnerucui uh Americans wen- iru iiiiu a unu uum nuicii w hi inirv tin a vmuuaiKii aiuuk . . . : .
i : . .1 . ... . i . ., - ... i wiu iim i" ;inKHiinn inimeni
! mobilized are 78 men in a signal , which the Mexicans opened upon these lines. The committee will P" . w)l follow a full report from Xdmiral
j corps unit. A regiment of infantry. 1 them with concealed machine euns. . prn iate any donation from any : win!iow commanding the Pacific
the entire unit of WeBt Virginia is None of the stragglers who reached . source and of any amount. . . h rHwrt t ih
two office 7,B , 7; 40 It is -'''i but S00 string Tennes-: here were able to give any informa-; Tne suanIs of L.Jwell Warre and srene , make a personaI invw,,ics.
two ofr'Prs at trom i. to 4t. it is SP(l has no troops out Florida ha in tion as to the Tate of the remnant of other part!, of the District are equally
ronnrt oH 17 mere tnlrpn rnnMvp llltrt . .... i i i. I ! r .. . nun.
' rami) a recnneni 01 inianiry nuniDer-, tj. men coniposum me - nmiiu. .well organized and are acting in
Chihuahua City. jnK ,op7 an(, vPr.ont an jnfflntry reg- i Military authorities in El Paso last rlo8e harmony with those from the
Perhaps 30 Wounded. imet 9.ri0 strong. The rush of recruits night generally reached tne conciu-, riisbee end of the District
The accepted percentace of wound- to the armories of New York guards-1 shion that the officer referred to as ;
ea 10 muse kiucu hi inuueru wanair ,rHn continued today ana it was esu- i apiain aioore una rrpun iu nn- ; . attitU(je of those who attended
would place the wounded at from 35 mBted that 2100 men applied lor en-1 been wounded in the shoulder In Me' ! IIleetin., vesterdav Secretary
to 40. at the lowest estimate. The ijtmont. The total number of appli-! ican accounts of the Carrizal engage- )Hbr,de.8 rep0'rt is Pnii'ithtening It
strength of the two troops is not cants for admission to the guard since j ment was Cantaln Lewis S. Morey. , 7
my held hospital readied Douglas Known nere, oni n is eMinmieu umi the rail to tne colors was receivea wns oi iroop n., -mu uuj.
early thi3 morning, according to word i they could not exceed 130 en, ai-
received over the phone by the Re-1 lowing for those sick and on detach- j number accepted
.j . .v i-I - . ... ..... ..j I .o. r.nraf Tohin imnieni-' mining men of the District, the fol-
vura i fjiui ifu na aiiMint; o . tr iiiuui i AiHliii ill'" iiivrii " i T-nfi irg yyi .t v -
t ion at- i . j a i..uk. Tfinn Tho nnintu1 nut that it h W99 t hp nn 1 V
... . eHlIfMitlt'll (Willful ll mUl a in miru - . . .
rv tminn hna rtfkuri . eiirvivin f fiTTirttr ni ill' i'fiiiiiiifiiii u a .-.-...
II I VIJtltlT IKIO L' I r. i t n - -
Action to Follow Report.
A th nituation stands at the Mat
JunaM nun nnK' fkral I mini r (n-t a
As indicative of the seriousness jf ' 'K
lill ml 11 lll.lllIlL II " M i . .
from war and naval officers trans
mitted as matters of information.
When the record is complete In each
department formal accounts will be
submitted to Secretary Lansing and
the action of the United States then
At a meeting called by J. J. Bowen.
view at 2 o'clock. The soldiers cameiment service. With but seven survi- 137 1 wounds may have preventea nis re- ciiirr,.u.L... .i, be determine!.
directly from Monterey, California.
10,000 Sonora
Troops Assemble
Below Nogales
column the number of those account-1 to Ratterv C .Second Field Artillery, , ately.
"d for at least speculatively is pitifully jaB a private was Alexander C. C. Weel. j Press dispatches from
nmll The renort from General i who resigned his cantaincv In the ouarters that American
U. S. Version to Decide All.
lowing business was transacted. '
:i.i : Mr Tlnwen called the meeting to
stragglers '" order and stated that the object of to be sufficient o show that Carransa
Kvidence now in hand is believed
Pershing stated that the stories of 1 Royal Highlanders of Canada to an
the survivors were confused arid did swer the call to arms of his own
not conform In nil details with tboi r-onntrv He has been on furlough at
report made bv the first arrivals from !his home in Brooklyn recuperating can. He said the Americans were lured
the battlefield. i from a severe wound received in the 1 into a cleverly constructed pitfall con
(Continued on Pace ; Second battle of Ypres. Icealed in the underbmsh.
from the engagement asserted the com- i
mand had been led into a trap was ;
taken as supporting a story brought
Mrg ""r" 'Sudden Battle Practice of U. S. Army Brigade
Two Thousand En
There
Route I
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NOGALES. Ariz., June 23. Ap
proximately 10,000 Mexican troops
ire concentrated tonight at Magda
lena, 54 miles' south of Nogales. Ac
cording to authentic reports there are 1
assurances also that before tomorrow
night the command will be increased
to 12.000.
Railroad yards in Nogales, Sonora.
were stripped today of every piece of
rolling stock. The streets there were
deserted, except for a few soldiers and
the number of people, especially Mex
icans, on the streets on this side of
the line was noticeably diminished.
Extra passenger equipment was
brought here from Tucson and held In
the yards, awaiting developments in
the crisis.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EL PASO, June 23. Battle practice ti'jops cross."
by the bridge of American torops on
station here threw citizens of El Paso
and Juarez, already perturbed, into
great excitement late today.
Cavalry, infantry and artillery from
tlio Mthprlni? wns to talk iver mak-, sympathizers or omciais proDaDiy
Ing preparations for protecting the will be held responsible in b.th cases.
District If war is declared between Indications are that the Washington
Mexico and the United States. government will stand on the reports
Mr. Allison was called on by the of its own f'ficers and refute the as-
! Chairman for a report on our present sertions of the Mexican government,
'jrifanization. Report follows: officially presented here that Anieri-
I "We have at present 200 picked cans were the agaressors. or that lr-
i men. organized Into squads covering responsible individuals prec ipitated
' Tvnih.tsn I'mvnii OimMtv Hill ih rlsiKh. It was thought probable
Thrmnc Fl Pnen CI-nA llinrPT Intn FycitPmPnt 'School Hill. Upper Brewery" Gulch, 'that the President would demand that
I nWWS HI raSO ana JUaieZ iniU l-iACat;illrlU:N.a(.0 Roa(, aUl, a gpM,,al squad ,.ov- rnrranza repudiate the acts and pun-
... , , .1 u . i ering the business district F.ach isli those responsible,
international bridge "to watch the Juarez the wildest excitement I cnuad has a leader and thev meet Mr. Wilson and his cabinet dis-
tnwp movement on tne prafU(1 These nwn up fnssw , Mexican crisis fully today,
side ine remnant o ine present time have paid for all but pending the receipt of final re
fas thrown out for outpostl J. . , .... ,,-,.. rrHJal
...I J J TW .11 Ih. rlH,n'"""u"'11"" u"ru- '- I.- -
,.u o. u ";' ""-" I rifles and devoted their time to prac-;and M
remaining in the town, gathered Inj perfprtinK the orcanlzation. ; mapped
Rumors were current also that
troops already had crossed the line at
Ysleta, Texas, twelve miles east
at other border points. t
j Just "Practice".
the plaza.
I
I
"They feel that the time has ar-
azatlan no course could be
ped out. The only announcement
made after the meeting was that the
un-
F'jrt Bliss took part In the maneuvers T)je )a bo(, was d ,
and a number of motor trucks in t he thp Hvfr front iniraediat(,v
city were commandeered for the
practice. As the khaki clad line of
troops, ,n nevy mar ... -,.,.....-.,.. (;pneral George Rell. Jr.. commanding
swunC. shoulder to shoulder, through , thp pa80 mllitary district, said
the streets, rumors, spread through fhat fh nar!ldp ., ..n,erelv nrecau-
, tionary practice," and unexpected by
. the troops.
Citijena Agog. while the American soldiers were explain his remark further.
Citizens with field glasses black-j disnosed along the river front sev During the maneuvers William J.
ened the tops "of the higher buildings,' eral detachments tf Mexican cavalry . Scalon. an enlisted man of Battery
while hundreds of persons, in motor j watched them from , the opposit bank. A. Fifth Field Artillery, fell from a
cars and afoot made their way to the The Mexicans appeared calm, but in caisson and was killed.
Mexicans "Keaay . , : rived-to call upon the citizens of the ,w,iry of the government was
Andres Garcia, Mexican consul to , District to aid In purchasing am- , chanced.
their way to occupy Juarez.
However, none ei'jssed the frontier,
ed along!
south of; El Paso, who had been spending Dls ; munit.Mn. ana; make luruier prepara-
El Taso, went through a few nian-ltime in the Mexican town, said over tions to protect ige (pomniunuy 11 war
clivers and returned t Fort Bliss, j the telephone that military officials in is declared."
Juarez general believed that General; W. J. Brophy urgeti mat tne men
Bell was preparing t'j make a night; be given assistance by the business
altars upon me .Mexican umu. men. . i,-rA tn. h.v. nlnel
..ir .h- a .Hb - rea.lv firalH si.erm.n favored nrecautlon-! "e flht was heard must hae Jolnefl
for them." he said, but declined to
Think Aid Arrived. .
Further reports from General Persh
ing were expected hourly. Officers
here believe that cavalry reinforce
ments sent nut rf. soon as the humor of
jary steps, pledged active support from '" unrtw.r. br this tir;e and .should
the Copper Queen mpany" and reach om. point atoni tthe Amenran
urged a clear understanding with the. '"es " wo
arar in order that we may act itel- o,Hy J IL
Hcently.
(Continued on Page Four)
dnubtedly incumbered by wnunded.
(Continued on Page Four)
