SjH B3feffagaMrT1'n' , " 'in null inT n rm i iiiilihiiriiiiiiiiriiriii iifffiiirtMltfiiiiiAiTfli l BHHIHlllHiHII
ifWs Metal Prices I T iYA SI tW rfWvX 4 P. M. CITY EDfflON I I
,0. II IIP II fl LfLllIClIllJa,ril TWENTY-EIGHT PAGES I
$ j $27.00, $28.00 and $29.00. J - il3 " Tonight and Sunday; Warmer To-
i FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER, I j
; forty'" YearNo, 151. Price Five Cent.. OGDEN CITY UTAH SATURDAY EVENING JUNF 94 iQifi Tl Z T ' i
J . VJUtLl U1I, UlAfl, 3A1UKUAI C E,MMKi, JU1NE, 6 AHlb, Entered ao Second CIao8 Matter at th Postofflce, Ogden, Utfc jf
American Troops to Be Attacked
General Trevino Declares If U. S. Troops Do Not Immediately Retreat, His Command Will Repeat the Carrizal Affair-Determined to Carry Out Carranza Orders to the Letter
-Pershing Reports 57 Americans Unaccounted For-Funston Convinced Mexicans Entirely to Blame-Sends Message to Washington. f I
I . RELATIONS WITH MEXICO NOW
i AT THE BREAKING POINT
i
Deliberate Massacre of American Cavalrymen to Bring Drastic
II Action by United States Government President and
; Cabinet Considering Occupation of Most of North-
I , ern Mexico as Rapidly as Guards Can Be Placed ,
I at Disposal of General Funston Demand
I on Carranza to Be Made. i
NS Chihuahua, Mexico, June 24. American columns have
j been seen advancing from the American field base in the direc-
tion of San Antonio and Ojo Caliente and General Trevino has
j issued orders to attack them if they do not immediately retreat.
General Trevino said the Americans would get the same
;i treatment that the' received at Carrizal as he is determined to
J cany out his orders lo the letter.
j In this, he said, he had all his subordinates with him and
i they will stick with him in case of a rupture.
fj Washington, June 24. Representatives of the entente
a allies have signified to the United States government their
1 willingness to subordinate their munitions contracts in this
country to the needs of the United States in the present emer-
! gency.
I
1 Washington, June 24. Relations be
' nvcen the United States and the de
' facto government Qf Mexico are close
1 to the breaking point toda, as a re
j -ult of the belief that two troops of
j American eaalrynion were deliberale
! ly massacred Wednesday, at Carrizal,
lij , Carranza ' soldiers,
i Secretaries Lansing and Baker were
i t the "White House early conferring
with President Wilson. It is known
i that the possibility of drastic retalia-
lory action against the .Mexican forces
r In Chihuahua was given grave con-1
! tideration If the Carranza govern-
Ij mem accepts responsibility for the
attack at Carrizal, it Is considered vlr-j
q tnally certain by officials that occupa
i lion of most of northern Mexico will
i be ordered by President Wilson to
, take place as rapidly as the necessary
military forces can be placed at the I
disposal of General Funston. I
Action must wait further reports
,' form General Pershing.
i Demand to de Made.
It is believed the first act of the
Washington government, when fuller
information is at hand, will be to de
! mand repudiation of the Carrizal at
tack by the Carranza government.
Preliminary reports have convinced
officials here that the American
troops were deliberated led into a
trap.
Unqualified repudiation of the at
tack and immediate surrender of
prisoners probably would be de
manded. Do Not Want Warr.
"Washington, June 24. Robert V. Pe
squeira. former confidential agent in
Washington of the Carranza govern
ment, issued a statement today de
claring neither General Carranza nor
other "chiefs of the revolution" desir
ed armed conflict with the United
States
San Salvador, Republic of Salva
dor, June 24. The foreign office re
Scelved today a cablegram from the
government of Ecuador urging all
Latin-American governments to take
3 common action to avert war between
a the United States and Mexico It is
g understood the despatch did not com-
" ment on what Carranza's attitude
ould be.
3j Pope Appeals to America.
London, June 24, 2:20 p. m. A wire
less dispatch from Rome says that'
I Pope Benedict has appealed to Presi--.
dent Wilson and General Carranza to
t) uae their earnest endeavors to avert
&l Uar
2 El Paso, Texas, June 24. Whether
or not all factions In Mexico would be
I drawn together by American intervon-
tion. depends entirely on whether ac
Sl tion by the United States was direc-
Ited at the Carranza government alone,
or at conquering and acquiring Mexi
can territory, according to General
Felipe Angeles, a refugee from Mex
ico living in El Paso since the fall of
the Huorta government. General An
gles has been called the "real patriot
of the Mexican revolution "
"If the United States intervenes in
Mexico simply to put an end to Car
ranza's rule, then the thousands upon
M thousands of Mexicans in the United
E States will not be attracted by the
n ; flrst chief's call of a "united people
I against a common enemy," declared
General Angeles.
m "But," he continued, "if the United
1 States should intervene with a view
m lo conquest and fight the people of
. Mexico as a nation, all the refugees
in the United States federals, cienti
ficos. Villistas and members of othei
parties, would return to resist the in
vasion "
General Angeles declared that ever
Mexican refugee who had been driven
from his country by the percutfon of
the constitutionalists Would see with
pleasure the first chief "tumbled from
bis throne" by the United Stages gov
ernment ""
ou
111. S. PRISONERS
IN MEXICAN JAIL
I I
i
Mormon Scout's Alleged Story
of Capture of Soldiers in
Carrizal Battle,
AMERICANS BLAMED
Captain Boyd, Imbued With
Idea That Quick Action
Would Bring Promotion,
Forces Fight.
Chihuahua, Mexico, June 24. The
seventeen American negroes captured
in the Carrizal battle have been plac
ed in the penitentiary here. There
have been no arrangements made for
removing them to Juarez to be sur
rendered to the American authorities.
Lem Spillsbury; the Mormon scout,
captured at Carrizal, also is in pris
on. The prisoners were assaulted by
Mexican civilians as they were being
transferred from the train to the
penitentiary but were landed safely
behind the Walls of tne building and,
according to the autnonties, are oeing
well treated.
The troopers brought here are Pri
vates Page, Peterson, N. Lloyd, W.
Ward, Jones, Sockes, Marshall, Oliver,
M. Donald, Williams, Givans, Stone,
Harris Lee and Graham, of Troop H.,
and Hove and Alexander of Troop C.
The Mexican commander said today
that it seemed probable, innsjnuch as
General Pershing seemed ignorant of
the fate of the Boyd column, that out
side of five additional prisoners now
being brought here, the Americans
were annihilated, although It was
probable more had escaped. General
Pershing has wired here for the
names of the dead and the prisoners.
It was officially announced today
that none of the prisoners brought
here will bo hanged, that "not being
the custom of a Civilized country."
Spillubury's Statement,
In his statement Spillsbury says
that he never dreamed when he left
Casas Grandes in company with Cap
tain Boyd that there would be any
trouble, 'feeling confident that prev
ious friendly relations would continue.
Cnptaln Morey and his men joined
them en route and the statement
quotes Spillsbury as saying during the
conference with General Gomez he
was opposed to Captain Boyd's "ob
stinacv," arguing that it would be best
to return until General Trevino at
Chihuahua had passed on tholr re
quest to Gomez to be allowed to pass.
NEWEST PICTURES FROM THE FRONT IN MEXICO SHOW H
I UNCLE SAM'S MOTOR TRUCK TRANSPORTS IN DESERT HILLS
SET ,.svW&0'''z ' - -
i- teKV "'gq' "fi,
U. S. army motor truck transports en route for American camp in Mexico.
Scores of motor trucks are in service along the 280-mile American line south of Columbus, N." M., rush
I Ing rifles, ammunition and food supplies to General Pershing's army of 15,000 well seasoned men. There has
been some apprehension lest this long line of communication be cut off and the line is being constantly
trengthened as the Mexican menace grows mor engrave.
Gomez explained, it is said, that an
answer would come in tTiree hours.
The statement recounts a supposed
opinion by Spillsbury that Captain
Boyd was imbued with the idea that
an action would bring him quick pro
motion and also that the Mexicans
would baqk .down on a show of force
It credits the scout with having argu
ed with Lieutenant Adair on the e
ening before against moving into the
Carrizal territory in search of ban
dits and also says he admits having
importuned Captain Boyd at least to
try to get around by some other road.
It then gives Splllsbury's story as
follows
Troops 200 Yards Apart.
"The troops were about 200 yards
apart during the conference Captains
Boyd and Morey and I advanced half
way to meet Genernl Gomez
"It was twenty minutes after we
had returned to our. respective lines
and Boyd had given numerous, orders
to his men, and those of Captain Mor
ey, who were stationed some distance
away, in line, before Boyd gave the
order to advance.
"The opposing sides were within oqe
hundred and .fifty yards or each other
when the firing began Nejther the
negroes nor I knew who fired first.
I remained behind.
Fight in Deep Ditch.
"Troop C got as far as a deep ditch,
where the Mexicans were placed.
Practically all who lost their lives
were there, including Boyd and Adair
The Mexicans did heavy execution
with a machine gun and then, getting
around lo a deep ditch in the rear,
attacked , the Americans from that
point.
"The whole of Troop. C. was sur
rounded and not many seemed to get
away. The horseholders bolted with
a few of the mounts, but the remaind
er were bottled up and captured.
There wore two American pack mules
along, but they evidently got away at
the very start. Troop H, apparently,
fared better aa It was farther away.
"A bullet took off my hat and an
other grazed my arm. One of the ne
groes who was captured is wounded.
Negroes Are Bitter.
"In jail here the negroes are very
bitter about being led Into what they
call a deadfall They wore entirely In
the open with natural defenses all
around them such as brush" and ditch
es, which the Mexicans naturally took
advantage of.
"The Mexicans engaged were about
250 in number."
The statement concludes by credit
Ing Spillsbury with saying that in the
first conference he told Lieutenant
Colonel Rivas that If ho personally
.vere able to get word to General Per
shlng, he believed he could avert the
trouble that threatened, and that he
concluded, when he heard aftor the
fight that General Gomez was killed
that he certainly would be shot Immediately
uu-
SENATE PASSES
AMENDED ORDER
Drafting of Guards Made Un
animous, But Aid for De
pendent Families Is
Cut Out.
Washington, June 24. Stripped of
Its $1,000,000 relief provision for
families of militiamen, the senate mili
tary committee today favor
ably reported the Hay resolution,
adopted by the house yes'terday, to au
tuorlze drafting the national guard
Into the service of the United States.
A substitute for the relief provis
ion directs that militiamen having
families should be discharged at
once.
The senate committee also eliminat
ed the provision that the militiamen
to be drafted. Into the regular service
should serve "not exceeding three
years," thus providing that they shall
remain In service "for the period of
the emergency." As passed, the mea
sure stands virtually as it was first
introduced in the houBe.
Senator Chamberlain, chairman of
the committee, announced tnat he
would report Uie amended resolution
at a later day and would ask unani
mous consent for Its immediate con
sideration and adoption. I
The committee was practically I
unanimous in -voting to eliminate the
$1,000,000 section.
"It Is unnecessary to assume a
burden of this kind at the outset of
such a campaign," said Senator
Weeks. "If there are men in the mili
tia now who have families dependent
upon them they should be discharged.
They should remain at home and care
for their families. There are plenty
of able young men."
oo
GERMANS TAKE
BRITISH SHIP
Passenger Steamer Brussels
Captured by Destroyers and
Taken Into Zeebrugge.
London, June 24, 12:10 p. m. The
British steamship Brussels, with pas
sengers on board, has been captured
by German, destroyers and taken into
Zeebrugge. -It is stated there were no
Americans on the Brussels.
Announcement of the capture of the
Brussels, which belongs to the Great
Eastern Railway company, was made
today by an official of, the line here.
The vessel was on her way from Rot
terdam to Tilbury with passengers
and malls. She was carried yesterday.
Most of the passengers were. Belgian
refugees on their way to England.
Tho Brussels Is a 285 foot vessel,
1.3S0 tons gross and was built in
1902.
nn
PROBABLY' MARRIED.
"What has become of Flubdub? He
used to boast that he would never
wear any man's collar." v
"I've noticed him lately with some
ladj' leading him around.".
nn
JUST ASKED.
The fellow asked Jier tor a kiss,
The damsel acted shy.
He quite provoked the pretty Miss,
He asked, but didn't try.
FRENCH DRIVE GERMANS BACK f
OVER GROUND WON AT VERDUN
Battle Waged With Unexampled Ijury on Both Sides of Meuse 1 j
Ends French Regaining Positions Lost Northeast of li
Fortress Germans Attack With Six Divisions- ,i
Russ Forces Checked in Advance in Dvinsk Jf
Sector Is Berlin Report. ff
Hi
RUSSIANS CAPTURE TOWN IN . GALICIAj I
Petrograd, June 24, via London,
7:10 p. m. The capture by the Rus
sians .of the town of Kuty in Galicia,
across the Bukowlna border at the
foot of the Carpathian mountains, was
announced today by the war office.
Paris, June 24. 12:10 p m. The
battle of Verdun continued last night
with the utmost violence on both
sides of the Meuse. The war office
announced today that the French have
regained a large part of the ground
lost northeast of Verdun near Hills
Xo. 320 and No. 321
Undertaking a vigorous offensive,
the French drove back the Germans
over the ground which they Avon yes
terday. The battle was particularly
violent in the vicinity of Fleury. The
battle was particularly violent in the
vicinity of Fleury The French did
not succeed in regaining possession
of the Thiaumont work.
More than six German divisions par
ticipated in the offensive actions east
of the Meuse yesterday..
The text of the statement says:
"On tho left bank of the Meuse
there has been continued artillery ac
llvitv in the "Avocourt woods -at Hill
Xo. 3JM and at Dead Man Hill. A
German attack with hand grenades
upon our positions at Hill No 304
has been repulsed,
"On the right bank of the river the
last night on the west portion of this
front. Our counter offensive move
ments, conducted with vigor, made it
possible for us to recapture in the
vicinity or Hills No. 320 and No. 321
a large portion of the ground recently
lost there by' us and to drive the
enemy back as far as the outskirts of
the Thiaumount work. This the Ger
mans still hold.
"The fighting became particularly
violent in the outskirts of the village
of Fleury. .
"Between the woods of Fumin and
Chenois our counter attacks put us
again In complete possession of those
trenches which the enemy occupied
during the night of June 21 and 22.
"According to the latest information
as to the result of the German offen
sive actions yesterday evening on tho
right bank of the Meuse. these move,
ments were conducted by the enemy
in superior number, six divisions
taking part."
Russians Arc Checked.
Berlin. June 24, via London, 4:26
p m German troops yesterday re
pulsed attompts of the Russians to
advance south of Illoukst and north
of Wldzy in the Dvinsk sector, ac
cording to the official statement issu
ed todav at German headquarters.
"Eastern front: Partial advances
by the Russians south of Illoukst and
north of Widzy were repulsed. A Ger
man aeroplane squadron attacked the
railway station at Koloozany where
troops were observed entraining.
Bombs were also dropped on railway
establishments at Lunlniec.
"General von Linsingen's forces ad
vanced to and beyond Zubilno-Vatyn-Zwlnatcze
line. Fierce couter at
tacks were repulsed."
Italian Troops Advancing.
Rome, June 24, via London, 2:30 p.
in. An extension of the Italian ad
vance in the Pasubio sector in the
Trentino and the repulse of Austrian
advances at points along the Posina
Astico front are reported in today's
official statement
Captured Armored Fortress.
J3erliu, June 24, wireless to Sayvllle.
Capture of the armored fortress of
Thiaumont north of Verdun and the
larger part of the village of Fleury,
further south, was announced today
bv the war office. Ground also was
gained south of Vaux. The Germans
made 2,600 prisoners
oo
AMERICAN FLYER
KILLED AT VERDUN
Paris, June 24, 11 a. m Corporal
Victor Chapman of New York, a mem
ber of the Franco-American flying
1 v
corps, was killed yesterday at Verdun ;)
after bringing down three German g
aeroplanes. ft
Sergeant Norman Prince and the
captain of the Franco-American flying m
corps were engaged with a greatly m '
superior force when Corporal Chap- w,t
man went to their rescue. He flew w
into the midst of the German flotilla TH
which engaged him hotly from all w '
Sides. jj
By maneuvering quickly, Chapman $ '
succeeded in bringing down three of m
his antagonists. Then a bullet from j
one of the remaining German aircraft ?
killed him outright in the air. His m
aeroplane pitched to the ground with- 1'
in the French lines. y,
nn 1 1
FURY OF FIGHT f
IS UNEQUALLED
Germans With Enormous j j
Force Attack French Along !
Two -mile Front.
RUSH THIAUMONT FORT j ! I '
l '
French Counter-attack and En- 1 1
emy Is Unable to Make I , ,
Further Advance. L1
Paris, June 24, 5:45 a. m. Late de- '
velopments show that yesterday's 1
fighting near Verdun equaled in fury I1 '
anything yet experienced. The total j
German forces engaged on a two-mila
front are estimated at between four j '
and five divisions. It was only by j '
the last overwhelming rush when the j
defenders were worn out and thinned f '
by many hours of bombardment that
the enemy succeeded In rushing the i
Thiaumont work and the adjacent ad- j ,
vanced trenches. m '
The Thiaumont fortifications cover- !
ed the approaches to Fleury and the j
enemy hoped to continue the charge m j
and sweep away the defenders of tho H.(
latter place; but the French counter m i
attacked with such vigor that the jN
enemy was able only to cling to the Jj I
positions first gained which he was I
busily engaged In strengthening all 1 .
night in preparation for fresh at-
tempts to push his advantage.
The enemy's losses are placed at 1 I
from forty to fifty per cent of the ef- J
feclives engaged. j i
nn i : I
FOUR HUNDRED I
PEOPLE DROWN :
Russian Passenger Steamer J;
Sunk in Black Sea by Mine , j;
Vessels Sent to Rescue. f J B
Petrograd, June 21, via London, M
S:15 a. m. Four hundred persons j R
lost their lives, according to latest re. ijj $
ports, when the Russian passenger ; 'j
steamer Mercury was sunk In the $
Black sea by a mine. Tho total num- i
ber of persons aboard 4he steamship ' jf
was approximately 550. 'J
The disaster occurred about 10 i j J
o'clock in the morning off the vil- ' 1
lage of Grigorievka. The passengers y iij
ielt a tremendous shock in the for VA
ward part of the vessel which stag- ,!
gered ahead for three ship's lengths ' ,
and then went down, bow foremost, in i '
five minutes. I ,
All available steamers and tugs j
hastened from Odessa and rescued the 'V'S
survivors clinging to lifeboats and 1$
wreckage. $
- ."!
!Tfree concert tomorrowTfternoon TfiO -loiiriitlCTO MUSIC BY THATCHER'S (!;(
AND EVENING, SUNDAY JUNE 25TH, AT -I mMC 0.d 1 1 11 lClJ ( ORCHESTRA ji
""f m "i ifi
x , ' " " ' ' I
if ? 2 pit
