. 111 11 J "Hl" , m t t ■:' • .jvvmmm./* ■ rr-*V*fr-'*-'*r " r —nww'V-l." v » < : ■• '• _ , T , IIPr . -V
C/fy's Thousands Cheer Departing Troops as 7hey Match to Serve the Flag
s
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
LXXXV — No. 145
DRASTIC RETALIATORY ACTION AGAINST
MEXICO FOR MASSACRE CONSIDERED BY US.
HARRISBURG SAYS
A PROUD GOOD-BY
TO MEN IN KHAKI
Companies D and I With Headquarters' Staff Entrain For
Mt. Gretna Mobilization Camp Amid Shouts of 50,000
People; Great Throngs Thrill as Troops of Today and
Veterans of Other Wars Go Marching By; Celebra
tion Exceeds Farewell of Spanish War Days
TEARS AND CHEERS AS LAST
GODSPEEDS ARE SAID AT ARMORY
Little Gray-Haired Mother Kneels and Prays as Her Son
Answers to His Name at Rollcall; Senator Beidleman
Points Out Fatal Results of Unpreparedness; Sobs
Echo Strains of "Good-by, Little Girl, Good-by"
They're our hoys, OURS, who march so bravely hy,
Not regulars sent from the Posts with banners waving high;
But husbands, sons and brothers who a week ago were here,
Sharers of the home life, so unutterably dear.
'
It's our flag, OURS, that sends the clarion call
\cross a mighty nation and the tools of commerce fall.
\\ hile the fathers of our children take up their arms to-day.
Old Glory says she needs them, there is no other way!
It's our prayer, OURS, who stay at home and wait,
That God in loving mercy let not the end be late.
If war must be our portion, give us faith and strength and then,
Our honor undiminished, Lord, give us I—V1 —V rnr,i -re*-
ANNA H. WOOD,
Written For the Telegraph.
With all the might of its thousands of aching throats and eager
hands, clamoring church and tire bells, screaming fire sirens and
factory whistles, and crashing bands—Harri .burg to-day said
good-by to some of its sons and husbands and fathers who started
to carry The Flag to Mexico.
Companies D and I of the Eighth Regiment, together with the
headquarters staff, entrained this morning for mobilization at Mt.
Gretna.
1 he Governor's Troop, the city cavalry command, will move to
Gretna to-morrow morning.
In years and years the city has never turned out so thoroughly
to man, woman and child of its citizenry as it did to-day. Thous
ands of people lined the streets from the armory at Second and Fors
ter sticets, all the way to Union Station. And when every available
l.it of curbing, pavement, telegraph and telephone pole, abutting
brick or lumber pile, office window, roof, automobile, balcony could
hold no mor e of llarrisburg's folk, the thousands of visitors from
nearby towns who flocked in on early trains and trolley, got a toe
or tooth hold from other possible vantage points.
Where the Tears Were Hid
Harrisburg was more than ordinarily gav with <nasses of flags
and bunting as i( the old home town had tried its best to bury its
lace in the folds of the only colors in all the world—to hide its tears.
I hat's why the marching men in khaki saw only the smiles along
the way; the tears followed the final clang of departing locomotive
bells as the long trains pulled out of Union Station.
Harrisburg, incidentally, took a half holiday; stores closed*
businessmen left their desks; factories were shut down; business
generally was suspended, and many of the city's leading citizens in
business or civic life, marched along with the" "boys" to the depot.
Department stores and other business houses turned out with
great forces of clerks; the Chamber of Commerce, the Rotary Club
hre department, the Post Office force, the Boys* Brigade and then
older fighters of fifty and twenty years ago -'the Grand Army men
and the veterans of the Spanish-American— tramped along in tribute
to those who went away to-day.
\\ hile you watched the thousands in the civic vanguard tramo
n to u " ° { „ "America," "Stars and Stripes Forever." "Yankee
oodle, Dixie and that sort of quick-stepping martial stuff, and
>ou noted the type of Harrisburg s men who have served the Flac—
and the youngsters who can render equal help to the Flair— vou
And— CUnOUS IlUlc tinghn S ' wa >' down your toes didn't you?
Then Companies D and I and the officers of the Eighth's staff
came tramping, tramping past! ' M
Down Second street to Market and on out Market street the
soldiers marched Over that same street a little more than a year
ago rode a very famous cavalry command of the regular armv And
at the head of one of its troops was the officer who has taken his last
ride across the Lnknown Border—Captain Charles T. Boyd.
MANY A TEAR
AS WOMEN FOLK
SAY GOOD-BY
When that trig, grim-visaged young
ster In khaki has grown silvery-halr
efi a-d tottery, he'll still remember
with pleasing thrill, Saturday, June 24,
in the year of our Lord, 1916.
And thousands and thousands of
people of the city and the surround
ing towns will ever recall that dale as
one to be marked in red letters In
the calendar of Harrisburg's "big
deys."
For this is the day that Harrls
burg officially told the officers and
men of the Eighth regiment staff and
(Continued on Page 1]
BY CARRIERS 6 CENTS A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
50,000 CHEER
GUARDSMEN AS
THEY MARCH BY
Through a massed lane of 60,000
; cheering people irom this city and
fi, rr .°. Un ! li ? K towns. Harrishurg's
I khaki-clad troopers marched to the
f i Pennsylvania railroad station this
. t morning to entrain for Mount Gretna,
, where they will prepare for the bor
, der, Mexico —and whatever lies be
: | yond.
Tt was a parade the like of which
. Harrisburg has not seen since the
I ! stirring days of 1898 when th® sinking
II of the Maine sent a thrilling wave
] [Continued on Page 4]
HARRISBURG, PA., SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 24, 1915.
HOW THE THOUSANDS MASSED IN MARKET SQUARE TO
SEE HARRISBURG GUARDSMEN MARCH AWAY TO GRETNA
- att - <flß BK
The glimpse of Market Square above shows how patriotic Harrisburg crowded into Market Square to see the
troops off to Mt. Gretna and Mexico. Below 4s a group of the city's guardsmen coming to a halt in Second
street. Senator E. E. Beidleman is seen making the farewell address at the armory.
SIXTEENTH IS
FIRST TO REACH
CAMP BRUMBAUGH
Western Regiment Informally
Opens Mobilization; Hard
at Work
• By Associated Press ,
Camp Brumbaugh, Mount Gretna. 1
Pa., June 24. Pomp and circum
stances. once so much a part of the >
military life, were conspicuously ab- j
sen), and hard, manual labor by per
spiring. shirt-sleeved gangs of men
the most obvious thing in the world j
when, at (i a. in. to-day, Camp Brum- '
bangh was opened.
General orders providing for the j
[Continued on Page 1]
One Little Gray-Haired
Mother Kneels in Prayer
as Her Boy Falls in Line
When you say' "good-night" to that
best girl whose hair has turned to
silver you may think of this little inci
dent that occurred this morning on
the balcony of the City Grays armory.
It's not exactly a tale of cheers —nor
tears.
Half a dozen of the fairer spectators
watched the crowds and the troops.
from the balcony. Among them was a !
sweet-faced old lady of sixty-five or.
thereabouts. Now and then she smiled i
as she listened to catch the tramp,
tramp of marching feet on the street!
near by. Somehow you got the ideaj
that she smiled to hide the trembling!
lips; anyway, she smiled a very great
deal.
As the stacato commands of officers
and the steady plap-slap of many foot
steps announced the approach of the
marching companies 'round the
armory corner most of Ihe balcony
spectators turned to watch. Only one
had no eyes for (lie passing marchers.
"Why, look at that old ladv," sud
denly whispered a man from the street
as he pointed to the balcony.
Some boyish soldier's mother was
kneeling in prayer.
AM- VKTF.BANS, ATTENTION:
Captain l.nuhrnsteln requests (he
Trlmrnph to annotinre that nil vet
erans will at the Courthouse
at S nvlock, Sunday morning, to
art aa on escort for the Governor'*
Troop, whfch will leave for the
mobilisation ramp at Mt. I.retna an
honr later. Inasmuch n* the de
parting soldiers to-day were given
a splendid fnrewell demonstration.
It la hoped that a large number of
veterans nlll he present to escort
the troopers to-morrow morning.
WRECK ON MIDDLE
DIVISION HOLDS
UP TROOP TRAIN
Passenger Engineer Injured;
AH Steel Coaches Save
Lives of Passengers
Two men were injured and troop
trains from West ern Pennsylvania were
delayed for an hour when a fast west
bound passenger trair. crashed into the
rear end of a freight near Millers
town .on the Middle division of the
Pennsylvania railroad at 2.30 o'clock
this morning.
The injured men were Andrew J.
Gardner, 658 Emerald street, this city,
passenger engineer, lacerations about
the head and face, a sprained arm
and bruises," and E. E. Ford, fireman,
also of this city, bruises and lace
rations. That none of the passengers
was injured was due to the all-steel
construction of the train.
Wreckage was strewn over the east
bound tracks for hundreds of yards
and delayed the on-coming troop trains
until the debris could be removed.
Colored Citizens Form
Law and Order Society
Representative colored men of Har
risburg met at the office of Dr. Charles
H. Crampton last pight and formed a
Law and Order Society, the purpose of
which is to aid the authorities in their
efforts to prevent crime in this com
munity :ind to i un down criminals.
As soon as the society learns of the
arrival of a suspicious character in
town his presence will be reported to
the police and every effort will be
made to impress upon the public that
the colored people as a whole are de
voted to good citizenship.
Dr. Crampton, who was elected
president of the society, said to-day:
"Patrolman Hippie, who was killed by
a colored man yesterday, was a Rood
friend of the colored people. We were
very fond of him. He was a Rood
officer and we hope the law will deal
promptly and vigorously with his
slayer. Our society will send a floral
offering frim his colored friends to
grace his bier. We propose to Rive
our hest efforts to the authorities in
putting a stop lo crime in this com
munity."
Other officers of the society are:
Fred Darrow, %'ice-presldent; S. J.
Lewis, secretary; Frank Robinson,
treasurer, ,
FORT THIAUMONT
CAPTURED AFTER
HARD FIGHTING
Germans Take Outer Verdun
Defense; Claim Fort and
Village of Fleury
! The battle of Verdun continued last
: night with the utmost violence on
! both sides of the Meuse. The French
war office announced to-day that the
| French have regained a large part of
| the ground lost northeast of Verdun
inear hills 320 and 321.
Undertaking a vigorous offensive,
[Continued on Page 1]
Italian Shoots Negro;
Victim Likely to Die
i John Quawn, colored, aged 38 years,
IPS Cherry street, is in the Harris
| burg Hospital in a critical condition,
I with a bullet wound in his abdomen.
He was shot shortly before noon by
Joseph Pullatto, an Italian, residing in
Tenth street, near Paxton. Both men
are employed at McCreath Brother's
coalyard, Race street. Pullatto was
j arrested at his tiome this afternoon
and is in jail.
The shooting occurred at the coal
I vnrds when Pullatto accused Quawn
of trying to rob him. Without any
warning Pullatto pulled a 32 caliber
i revolver from his pocket, flred and
j made his escape.
[THE WEATHER,
1 For Hnrrlnhiii-K nml vicinity: Prob
ably Nhnueri to-nlsrhtt Sunday
linrtl.v cloudy; not much change In
temperature.
For Enntcrn Pennsylvania i I'rob
nlily loeal ahotvera to-ulKhti Sun
i day partly cloudyi moderate
■outherly wlndn.
River
The Suaquehannn river and prob
ably all Ita hranehea n-11l continue
to fall alowly. A atuße of about
fl.il feet IN Indicated for Harrla
burs Monday morning.
Tempernturei 8 a. m., OA,
Muni Rlaea. 4i4T a. m.| net*. TiST
p. m.
>loon i .\ew moon, June rn>, 5144
, a. ro.
j River Stage) 7.2 feet above low
water mark.
Yeaterday'a Weather
Hlarheat temperature. To.
I.oweil temperature, M.
Mean temperature, IIS.
Normal temperature, 72.
16 PAGES
DEALINGS WITH
CARRANZA NEAR
BREAKING POINT
Only Seven Men in Addition to Seventeen Captured Have
Survived Treachery of Gomez at Carrizal, According
to Fragmentary Reports; Decisive Move Will Not Be
Taken Until Gen. Pershing Sends Complete Accounts
Washington, June 24.—Relations between the United States and
the de factor government of Mexico are close to the breaking point
to-day as a result of the apparently well-founded belief that Ameri
can cavalrymen deliberately were massacred Wednesday at Carrizal
by Carranza soldiers.
Secretaries Lansing and Baker were early at the White House
to-day conferring with President Wilson. It is known that the pu -
sibilitv of drastic retaliatory action against the Mexican forces in
Chihuahua was given grave consideration. If the Carranza goven -
ment accepts responsibility for'the attack at Carrizal it is considered
virtually certain by ofticials that occupation of most of Northern
Mexico will be ordered by President Wilson to take place as rapidly
as the necessary military forces can be placed at the disposal of
General Funston.
Only Seven Survivors
Action must await further reports from General Pershing. Mis
message last night indicating that only seven men of the two troop
of cavalry had survived in addition to those taken prisoner, had not
been supplemented at an early hour.
Deliberately Led Into Trap
It is believed the first act of the Washington government
when fuller information is at hand will be to demand repudiation of
the Carrizal attack bv the Carranza government. Preliminary re
ports have convinced officials here that the American troops wer u
[Continued on Page S]
ATTENTTOTn!!
£
Harrisfcurg—Members c' the Chamber of Commerce. I
Rotary Club and all other civic orj arc requested I
to meet at 5 o'clock to-morrow morning at the courthouse) j
to escort the Governor's Troop to Union Station for entrain- f
i ing to Mt. Gretna. *
, CARRANZA PREPARING REPLY TO NOTE f
j I Washington, June 24.—An official dispatch from Mexico K
City to-day said it was reported there General Carranza was f
< t preparing a reply to the last American note and that it would
be published in Mexico City probably to-morrow, without J
i waiting for its delivery to the United States. JL
* STRIP RELIEF DIVISION FROM DRAFTING BILL T
' Washington, June ?A. —Stripped of its $1,000,000 relief I
provision for families of militiamen, the Senate Military J
I Committee to-day orde ably reported tl |
I ' lution adopted by e .tcrday to auth 5
)' in; Guard ir of the Ui '•s. f
j I A sub! tit ite for the relief provision directs that militiamen *
< having dependent families should be discharged at once. X
!, DEMOCRATS ORGANIZE
Ilarrisburg. Democratic county and city committees 1 >
1 met this afternoon, re-elected officers, adopted resolutions ! 1
i 9 boosting the administration, the tickets, etc., and heard '
I speeches by H. B. Saussaman, Congressional candidate; F.
& George D. Herbert, Senatorial candidate, and others. Fred C?
L. Morganthaler, this city, was re-elected chairman of the *£
J county committee; ex-County Commissioner John 11. Eby, §
| I Lykens, was made vice-chairman: J. Douglas M. Royal, son K
; of ex-Mayor Royal, was elected secretary, and Charles E. f
< I Dasher, was chosen treasurer. Morris Emerick, Charles D. £
I Stucker, and A. Wells Booser were all named in order for j (
j the treasury job, but all fought shy, of it. Howard W. Jones
was re-elected chairman of the city committee. 1
\ , ALLIES WILL SUBORDINATE ORDERS
* 9 Washington, June 24. Representatives of the entente ' *
i allies have signified to the United States government their
■ willingness to subordinate their munitions contracts in this 1
country to the needs of the United States in the present
< I emergency. I
MARRIAGE LICENSES
Hcary I,chimin Knauh and Mauri M. Brrimrranrr, city.
I.eroy Jolitmon. Ohrrlln, anil Kannlr Mink. city.
I'rfd Andrew* Sturm anil Kllaalirlh M. Kruner, cltj,
ira 1.. Shonlf anil tnna 11. (.unity, city.
' Millard Hay tumbler. Ilutlcr. anil lirarr F.dna Mtephcaa, Philadelphia
■ Mark H. Ilarnian, Kllr.nhcthilllc. and B. I. Marklr, Washington town.'
hip. 1
Qi V||--iii W. ii
CITY EDITION
