THE WEATHER. '
Tonight and Bandar , usMttlad
weather. ' .
' MR. MERCHANT.
An ad In The Ragle will bring buyer
and seller together. ; "v
mm
AND PILOT
VOL XXX, NO. 151.'
BRYAN, TEXAS, SATURDAY, JUNE 24, 1916.
PRICE 94.00 PER ANNUM
Eagle
6
a
i.
: May Order Occupa&n
Mesdat
II LL
An Ideal Summer Condiment
BATAVI A BRAND
TOMATO CATSUP
Only the whole ripe tomato.
No preservatives used. Delicious
flavor. 15c and 25c sizes.
Hardy Newton
RELATIONS AGAIH CLOSE
TO THE HOG HIT
HORSE THE I GREAT VIOLENCE
SU
IS
PLATFORM
ON VERDUN
FRONT
Washington Believes the Americans at Carrizal
Were Murdered and This May Cause a Break.
, Further Report From Pershing Will Be
Awaited Trevino Threatens More Trouble.
South American Republics May Offer to
Mediate.
State Chairman Waples Will Meet With Great Violence the Contending
With Tarrant County Demoerata
to indoree St. Louie Platform.
(Br Associated Prats.)
Fort Worth. Texai, June 24. A
meeting of demoerata of Fort Worth
Armlet Fought Throw on Night.
French Make Gain.
(Br Associated PrM.)
London. June 24. The battle of
TYi aai i n er nr v a rvrsr ai v at or unrr w rn n
and Tarrant Count called br Paul Verdun continued last night with the developments. If Carranxa aeoepta were made for removing them to - T.
Wale, chairman of the State Dfrno- uost violence on both eidee of the responsibility for the act. It la eon- Juarei .to be returned to the American! trial of prettr Mr. Katherine Harri-
mtlc Executive Comralttee will be 'UM- The war office announced to- ddered virtually certain that Preel- military authorities. son. the H-year-old wife who la
leld tere tonight on the court house day that the French have regained a ,,nt Wilson will order the occupation; ..... 7 . . I charged with the murder of W. L.
7 .1 .t" " ....J . .u- lr n.rt nf tha rrnnnd Inst north- . Mrtk.ra Maxlea a aoan as auf- All Back But Forty. . ... , ..
(By AHortat'd PmO. authorities at Juarez doubt the re-
ta--l...a- I,,... li DalatUaia laai. 'riArta JK a t (rA anrlra A m aWoa n rm.
WW ninywnf afunv t. rtjiejive ew- Mat. vmuo niuvui-eiu vva-
tween the United States and the de- mand at Carrizal waa wiped out, say-
breaking point aa a result of an ap- 'cated the Americans were able to re-
parently well founded belief that the tire.
American cavalry was massacred by
Carranxlatas at Carrizal. Secretary Imprison Captives.
Lansing and Secretary Baker held an (By Aiwociated prwa.)
early conference with President Wll- Chihuahua City, June 24. The 17
ton today and it la known that drastic American negroes captured In the
retaliation wae considered. Neither Carrizal battle will be placed in the
Lansing nor Bsker would discuss the penitentiary nere. no arrangement
HEADQUARTERS FOR
FIRST-CLASS GROCERIES
If you appreciate fresh groceries and prompt
service phone us. : ,
PHONE
54
DnnEi phone
DIRECT
BE
Fort Worth, Texaa, June 24. Both
the State and the defense rested to-
would discuss tha penitentiary here. No arrangomenta fc d, t eTldence , the
Carranza acoepta were made for removing them to j . .
IS
COMPLETED
State and Defense In Katherine Har
rison Case Rett Todsy Girl
Breaks Down.
lawn, ior me purpose oi iiiuur.iii um - ------ - - n
action of the Pt. Uuls convention in east of Verdun, near Hill 321 and 320.
re-nomlnatlng Woodrow Wilson and ' The German troops yesterday re
Thomaa Riley Marshall as stsndard puleed the attempts otr the Russians
bearers of the democratic party. The advance south of Illuskt and north of
party's platform, as adopted at St. Wldzy In the Dvlnsk sector .according
Louis, waa also to be ratified. The the German official statement to
meeting was called to express public- day.
ly the lovtlty of Fort Worth demo- The capture of the armored fortress
rata to President Wilson. , of Thlamount, north of Verdun, and
tne village or rieury. lurwrr mum,
waa announced by the German official
'statement. The Germans took 2600
prisoners.
Russian Steamer Sunk.
(By AMclated Pt.
P.lpAmJ tuna 1 Fntir hnndred
'persons lout their lives .according to
the latest reports, when the Russian
ateamer Merrurv ws sunk In the
Black Sea by a mine. There were an-
POPE BENEDICT
MAKES APPEAL
IH Aaanrlatnl Prmw )
, London. June 24. A Rome wireless o.
dispatch ys Pope Ponedlct has ap
pealed to President Wilson and Car- .17
proximately five hundd and fifty
American Aviator Killed
(Br Aaaorlated Preaa )
Parla. June 24. Corporal Victor
RETURNS FROM OKLAHOMA.
Judge V. B. Hudson returned laat rbtpiMBf New Yor. member of the
sight from Hugo. Okla, where he has !,,nr-.Am,r,n nrnt .rM.
been for the past several days visiting ..... ..d.. Verdun after bring-
his daughter. Mrs. W. V. Evans. The . d ,h oera,.. .eronlanea.
Judge made the trip up to that city
by auto with his son. Chas. B.. and
returned on the train, ('has. B. will
retvrn In a few days with the car. He
reporta a moat pleasant trip through
the country and says that he enjoyed
every bit of the trip, and. barring a
few punctures, they experienced no
trouble.
fieiant farces can be assembled. How-'
ever, further reporta from General
HIGHER
COURTS
OF
TEXAS ADuWj
Supreme Court and Criminal Appeala
Court Adjourn for Preeent Term.
In Station Again In October. (
(By Associated Press.)
Austin, Texaa, Jane 24. The higher
courts of Texas supreme court and
criminal appears court adjourned to
day for the present term, and until
the next term opens in October.
Tha rnurt nf erlmlnal annAala rlMAd
its odeket with the disposition of prac
tically every rata auomiuen, wdico
I K.r.ad with tha mnrilar nt W I. I
' Vjl.K. M'.U T.hU 'W wua ... I
..,. -. - I narren, a rooming uoubb aeepr hi-
. . 1 .U.H.nHi. kU.
ever, further reporta from General Columbus, N. M., June 21. AH the uiu.uu. e. UflI. eYery CM iubmuted. wh!
a- i .....It.J .m.im.m ftlmA tmAVinonal In tha Ptt fTl 0 1 ffff tlBVst ' Ifli that Wg TTATt VkBrl WfABrA tlAI TllA . J V .Ia.lai
cislon la made. J I returned to the field base except 40 young girl broke down today for the an excellent record. The aupreme
j lT0?,. ?S .7.n. . 0"t Inc" trial began. This wurt. however, closed tne term un
.E. and Lieutenant Adair, according to a CjmB hen the 8tate introduced teatl-1 mn' motions pending.
reiwn orougni loaay oy amvmia iroui mon ... ,h.Tmtt,T Drior That tribunal la about two and a Hair,
to the murder and her marriage to 7ar" hehlnd with lu docket. Many
.. Mmiuiriiiil k.u. In tha luhrMM enittT
I went Aver, tnelndtnir the Austin Coun-:
try uiud case, wnicn involves u law
of the bona fide social clubs In Texaa..
EXPECT MORE TROUBL
(By Aorlated PrM ) ( the Interior.
Chihuahua City. June 24, American
columnc were aeen advancing .from
their Mexican field base In the direc
tion of San Antonio, Mexico, and Gen
eral Trevino Issued orders to attacx ir
they did not immediately retreat.
They'll get the same treatment as at
Carrizal," he said and his subordinates
MI Slick with him. General Trevino
believes all the survivors from Carri
zal have returned.
REV. CHAS. T. TALLY
PRESIDENT
AH
Harrison.
. VISIT EXPERIMENTAL FARM.
The summer normal and cotton
rlaaalna atnitenta tt tha A aV l rVit
lege were treated to a trip to the ex-
TO THE LADIES.
perlmental farm this morning by the ! Big reduction In price On all anm-
CORN PR
OpUCEyp
Ing down three German aeroplanes.
AMUSEMENTS.
An excellent program will be aeen
Two Troops Annihilated.
(Br Ablated ! , M-,hndlt Church or thta city
San Antonio. Texaa. June h re,uned last night from Georgetown,
complete disorganization of the two wheM he hM bMn for the pMt few
troopa In the Carrizal fight and prae- , tending the summer theotog-
tlral annihilation or mose actually i.-.i aohool. While there at a meet
the fight, was Indicated in a report
from General Pershing today. Sixteen
men were picked op near 8anta Maria.
hAiu hnldera and their
stories are almost Identical with that
of other slragglera.
Bryan Minlstsr Is Honored With professors of the College. Thd trip mtr dresses In silks, voiles and or
Presidency of Southwestern uni- .was made In autos which bad been .. r.n K.fnr ih ai ara w
veraity Alumni Association. I provided and quite an Interesting time ' ,ndlM- C,U befoM lne are 100
1 waa had by this body. j badly broken. Webb Brothers,
Rev. Chaa. T. Tally, castor of the I
ing of the Alumni Association of thla
noted University of the Methodist de
nomination. Rev. Tally was eiectea to
the presidency of the Alumnus, an
honor that la always bestowed nn
some one who baa proven wormy ox
, l , 1 ..i.U.nl trtm tha
NOTHING TO MEDIATE. i-mi- ...r tha Alumni Association
,Br AviH Pm.1 'of thla achool made no mistake, as
U..lilnaAn- Juna 24. NtWS that .. nr4h v nf
B I . rri n mr 1111, uiil viiix w. . j w.
at the Dixie tonight then pretty, aome or the aoutn anq wanir.i m-r bnttWlu mu , desirable presi
Frltzl Brunaette and Jack Plckford can countries. Including Ecuador and
HI be seen at their beat In a grand San Salvador, are preparing w in-. nv0Tit the aummer
'OTATO.
IM he seen at their beat in a grand nan salvager. r ..' Rer -TiIjr reporta tne aummer
Rellg special featnre. The Reprisal "i Itlate off era of mediation between itne ifhoo, th JW Mt Georgetown the
a atory told ft five art, of a woman's United Statte and Mtxles, Tfom best In year, both from a standpoint
1 , V T..7 " of attendance aa wen as ws,excei-
i United Statei wae .cM ot ,he .course of study."
In defensive protection i , ,
Inva and venaeanre. Other liHiifH hlah Officials
Lu. .... v ..j'....rf aifw In dafanslve oretectio
Of the many different garden specif f)ne Enay drama. The Myaterv.-; and It wss considered there ";
men thsl have been brought to The, At h, qnN.n will be seen Mr. F.d- Ing to mediate so far as the policy or
Kagle office this spring and summer. munif riree.e In The Riwll of the Yu- thla government la concerned.
m I , . k . .Urn., .... . . . , i
air, t;, i- naaer rarin-u mo , icon, whlcn I anotner or mow arann
May Ms Carrizal Troop.
in Aaanrlaled Pre
FJ Paso. Texas. June 24. Army of-
yesterday afternoon when she brought , reature adapted from the poems of
In a small atalk of corn with a good,na Mma name by Robert W. Service.
Slina inn jHnaio """.The picture reproaurcs renin.. r.i ---. -- -
of the roots of the corn. This was not wld ,f of ,ha Alakan gnldflolda. the I fleer here believe the column bound
frown In the potato patch but was in .nlri, nf ,h . i,,u. ,nd (ambling , for San Antonio, wnirn i revinn .nr-a.
(he roasting ear row. The potato Is , AM ,nd ,h(,n , fou ,0 ,n ,h. - rned to attack Ja Probfiy mJrr
the culture and refinement or New o nne troop, u. ...
York's smart set. I As San Antonio la 50 "ille .outheaat
ti.i. ni . v.miniiiiia li la not known wnat
l ommenrin ,imni, mm wuii.-i .-- -- -
have a full week of Masterplere fe. the Column' mlaMon could be In t hat
... .a i i mkI... it la aearrinna ior
lure bealnning wun winirren t.reen-i nirtM-inm ". -
wood and Frank, Ritchie In the Mutual bandit.
aMMernlece. ' I.vlng Lips." a beautiful
pro-luctlon In five act. These fe.. . M",""JJ1U"
tures will be run at the regular Dixie (Br ..rmn
admllon. wl.l. h I always 10 renla. I FJ Pao. Texas. Jun.24.-Mexlcan
wail Hail tn the root of the corn Ju't
the same as If a product of the corn.
The specimen Is on display In The
Kagle office.
No wonder the fair sex Is clamor
ing for equal right. As It now stands.
. when a man dies his belter half Is en
titled to only a third of his estate.
'
A BIG DISCOUNT
Wc arc overstocked on high-grade porcelain-lined Refrigerators.
To dispose of our surplus Refrigerators wc will close them out at
20 Per Cent Off Regular Price
II You Want One Cornc Quick
Ho IFn
& l
Visit our Vlctrola Department
MODERN SHOE SHOP
FOR CITY OF BRYAN.
Joseph Tedaro Will Install Machinery
in Ntw Shop That Will Be
Second to None.
Announcement wa made this morn
In. h Jnaenh Tod a TO. successor to
Todnro Bros, that on the first of the ,
'coming month he woum nune an
i.na aiion from the rear ot tne Asiin
imii.iina nn Main Street to the rear1
Ilulldlna. A force
of workmen are busy today putting
the new quartera In first class condi
tion, the big double door at the rear
of the building Is being cloned up and
i.n-n rnirance will be made on the
Anderson Street side Just below the j
western t'nlon office. Todaro hs or-;
n.o analnnient fur hit DlacO and '
the machinery Is of the most modern ;gj
type and is expectca io imn
the next few days and be Installed In
time for his opening, mi gentle
man baa also purchased the snoe snop
of A. J. Wsgoner and will consolidate
the two In his new quarter. Another
step of progress In Bryan, a shoe re
.hnn r thA mniit modern kind.
MW V. "
I second to none In Texas. '
n
"The Question of
the Open Saloon"
Will be the theme at the First Christian
Church tomorrow at 11 a. m., June 25,
1916. Don't fail to hear the discussion of
this subject.
Text: "Woe unto him that giveth his
neighbor drink, that puttest thy bottle to
him and makcth him drunken also."
Habakkuk2:15.
COUNTRY CLUB ORGANIZERS
oo0poo0pooooioooo6oeoopopoo0paoooooooftooooaj
o ADD TO YOUR COMFORTS AT HOME
I USE ELECTRICITY
&
V CLUB Biiwimn j-
MEETING WITH SUCCESS, o
BRYAN POWER COMPANY
' It wa announced thla morning by
miiiaa who havs In charge the
organiiatlon ot a Country Club for the ,
City of nryan that they are meeting,
with much success. One ot the com
mine Informed an Eagle represent-,
live tha already between "0 and 80:
member had been secured and thatj
they were not more than half through
soliciting In the city. Kverv one who!
annmarhed on the subject I
has been heartily In favor of the pro-,
Ject and ino commme io.mb iu .
required number will be secured hv
the time of the meeting for permanent
ornlatloB next Monday. The com
mittee I composed of the following:
UULIIJ' f .I'll I'll'l "- JMM
Lei Us
Fit your homo with new and attractive furniture at reason-
ablo prices.
Call and Bee us In our new location at Ilcnsarllng Merchan
ts old stand.
E
I isil. uur iv;uuio in'iwwicuH . v line, it. u. u. dhu. i
O. B. 8aunderm T. H. uryan. it. ..
D Cllne. t)r. D. U. Blras, J. 8. I' -" ""
