UNEARTH MEXICAN PLOT HERI
Foreign Agents Try to Bay Arms in Seattle
FACE TO FACE
WHO'S THK OfY WHO GETS PRETTY CI.OSK
FACE TO FACE. WITH MAW OF OfR SKA TTI.E SO
TAMI.KS* THK lIARHBR CIIAI' WKI.UWKIIVVK
v RARRKR EDITOR TO KI'HMSII VS SOMK 1-AI'OHH
EVERY SATCRDAY. THK first botsion today,
ON PAGE S.
"AND CO PER CENT OF THEM HAVE NEVER IWED A MFLET'
QEATTLE is due, tomorrow morning, to look upon the opening scenes of what
may possibly go down in history as one of the greatest tragedies that this coun
try has ever witnessed.
It is the tragedy of a nation depending, for its defense, on a mushroom army.
It is not a tragedy reserved for Seattle alone..
What Seattle will see tomorrow morning is being viewed in every town and
hamlet from Maine to California.
The tragedy nill be on display at 10 a. tn., u hen Washington's citizen soldiery marches
front the Armory to the troop trains en route, via American Lake, to the Mexican border.
OUT OF EVERY 100 MEN WHO WILL MARCH AWAY FROM HIE ARM
ORY WITH THE SEATTLE CONTINGENT OE THE SECOND REGIMENT.
PRESUMABLY READY FOR THE TRENCHES, HI ERE ARE 60 CHAPS
WHO HAVE NEVER FIRED AN ARMY RIFLE IN THEIR LIVES.
They don't know how to take care of themselves in the field. I hey have never been
taught even the most rudimentary of the duties that all soldiers must perform.
The 40 per cent, or previously enlisted National Guardsmen, have a smattering knowl
edge of the work before them.
Thev have voluntarilv gone one night a week to drill halls and fried to learn the pri
mary lessons. BUT IT WILL TAKE THREE MONTHS TO Pt l EVEN THE EX
PERIENCED NATIONAL GUARDSMEN INTO ANY KIND OE SHAPE IOR
ACTUAL SERVICE, ACCORDING TO REGULAR ARMY OEEICERS HERE
ON THE GROUND. .
This is no criticism of what the National Guard officers have tried to do during their
years of preparation, or of the men in the ranks. I hey are a step nearer preparedness
than the rest of the community.
They have done their best, no doubt.
But the fact remains that, watchful waiting, patience, and honorable endeavor
<Jl proving powerless to stem the present need of mobilization, when the call came
the answer was pitiful.
After a week of scurrying for recruits, the National Guard forces have not yet
reached war strength.
NOT ENOUGH TRAINED MEN COULD BE FOUND IN THE WHOLE
STRIP CAPTIVES
OF 1)0) KHAKI
FT. PASO, Tune 24 —Subjected to in Milts and jeers, the
17 American prisoner- in Chihuahua City have been robbed
of their uniform*, according to passengers who arrived here
by rail from the Mexican city.
CarranziMa privates were said to be wearing the drab
colored khaki of the Tenth U. S. cavalry. j
The American soldiers, attired only in their under ]
clothing, are held in a *trong)y-guarded detention camp, the
arrivals stated.
The Mexican soldiers and officers have subjected thci
colored troopers to gross insults.
They were jeered at as they marched thru the street 1 -
on the way to their stockade prison.
DEMAND RELEASE OF
CAPTURED TROOPERS
WABHINGTON. Jun« 24 — I
This government has demanded
release of the negro troopers
captured in the Carriial fight
and now held by the Carranne
tas at Chihuahua City.
It became known today that
the demand now is on ita way
to Carranza. Whether it was
given to Arredondo to forward,
was sent to Consul Rodgers,
then to be given Carrania, or
whether It waa made direct
from the state department to the
Mexican minister of foreign af
fairs was not made public.
The question of an armed Inva
itoti of Mexico hang* upon the na
ture of the first rejiort of any com
missioned offlc-r who participated
In the Carrlzal fight. If any are
•live.
Kotowing a conference with f'res-
Ident Wilson, lading on* hour, Sec
retary Baker «ald:
"We are obliged to wait for fur
ther word from Oen Pershing be
fore we can determine our course of
action
"The only thing we have thu* fur.
as) 1e from that coming from Mexi
can source*. I* th#- report of a fev.
straggle, * who were considerably
In the rear of the point where the
Carrlzal attacl occurred," llaker
said.
Hop«• had practically vanished
today that tnor<' than a handful of
American** escape! th** Vlexlcan
machine gun fire, before Carrlzal.
Army men *ald that |ierhap* a
Mw §Uei} would arrive beCoru to
morrow Hut they feared the "up
porting forces will only bring proof
that the whole band, hemmed In,
died fighting—and without a
chance.
Officials close in touch with the
problem insist that whatever I* the
outcome of the Carrlzal *ltuatlon.
the evil day of war with Mexico I*
not to be delayed
The first militia troop* to move
to the border probably will go for
ward Monday.
Eighty-four member* of the Tenth
cavalry were with C and K troops
at Carrlzal
Kleven hive returned to fien
Pershing'* headquarters Sixteen
are reported to he with the rescue
<o!itmn from the Eleventh cavalry.
Thl*, said Secretary Baler today,
is the score of the Carrlzal fighting
now In hand. Official* <Jo not know
•lie fate of the remaining '<7, •»«
cept that 17 are reported captive*
at Chihuahua City.
Maker tal'l thl* "score" came In
a re|M»rt from (ien. I'ernhlng The
latter reported that stories of the
11 privates who reached his camp
are divergent and that, therefore, it
I* ImpONSible to get an accurate
story of the fight at Carrlzal from
them.
f!en. I'ershlng reported today that
one packer and eight enllated men
of Troop A, and seven enlisted men
of Troop K, Tenth cavalry, were
picked up thl* morning oorlhwaat
o! Santa Maria.
The Seattle Star
I THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS :
VOLUME 19.
ALL UNIONS ON
COAST MAY 60
OUT ON STRIKE
I San Francisco Building Trades
Indorse Sympathetic
Walkout
COUNCIL WILL VOTE
SAN FRANCISCO, June 24 —
A general strike of Pacific
coast organized labor, In aym
pathy with t*e longshoremen, la
being considered today. The
building trades council hers
patted resolutions Indorsing
auch a etep. The executive
committee of the San Francisco
labor council will vote on aim-
Mar meaiurei Monday.
A petition to the governor,
urging that strikebreakers along
the water front be disarmed will
be sent by the labor council to
day.
Hundreds of union longshore-
men on strike thronged the
water front Saturday morning
watching small aquada of Inde
pendent workmen file Into the
docks and begin work moving
congested freight.
There were no demonstra
tions.
Non union stevedores were
employed at the Grand Trunk
dock and at Piers B and 6.
They wer# few In number.
Under the direction of Capt.
J. 8. Gibson of the Water
Front Employers' union, fences
have been thrown up as barri
cades against possible inter
ference by the union men.
Forty apeclal policemen out. of
50 appointed by Mayor 011 l on F"rl
day were *worn In for water front
duty, and took their place* on the
dock* under pay fr lfc the shipping
(Continued on page 8)
THREE BANDS PLAY
SUNDAY IN PARKS
Three bawl concert* will be
given In Seattle parka .Sunday.
Wagner* hand will play *1
Woodland park from -: .'lO to f>:SO
In connection with the Oreen l.akc
how
Cavanaughs band will lie heard
at Alkl beach front 2:30 t6:30.
KYom 7 30 to !»:30. the Firemen *
band wIU play at Volunteer park.
SEATTLE. WASH.. SATURDAY. JUNE 24. 1916
TROOPS IK CARP
HARD AT WORK
AMERICAN I.AKK, Juno 24 It I* hard to reallfe that the cheerful
camp at American lake may he the flret ramp on the troops' way to an
enemy * country and the deadly reality of war
Everybody was busy K' ttlni; settled jeMerrlav afternoon
Beds had Just been luaned. and the men wandered around with 'he
limp, white tick* trailing emptily on the grass, or dragged them, awol
len with atraw. Into the low tent doors
A boy In khaki washed pots and pains awkwardly hehln>l the un
flnlahed cook houae. another blundered around wtth a mammoth coffee
pot. and a third fed a hungry little sheet-Iron cook Hove with freshly
chopped w-iod.
The "company street" basked peacefully In the sunshine
The tawny grass under foot, the khaki tents on either side find the
uniforms of the men were all the same color.
There was a pleasant smell of warm earth, new lumber and fir.
tree«
Officers Proud of Sanitation
But lt'» "Going" That the Men Talk About
Save for the fact that there are more men In the troop and
more tents this year, It might be Just the usual summer en
campment.
The laughter Is a little more frequent, and In a little higher
key, perhaps; snd some of the men have brown goggles tied
around their hats, "to protect our eyes when we get to the bor
der," but these are small things.
The officers iiolnt with pride to the sanitation of the camp; to the
pipes that bring «h> drinking water from ti deep well, and to the com
missar* arrangements.
HI T THK MKN TAI.K MOKK OF THK CIIANCK OF OOINC,
"1 wish 1 was us sure of a million dollars as 1 am of going." an
nounred Private Llewellyn, of Troop B, cavalry, of Taooma, challeng
There are a good many seasoned men In the ramp. Private I.lew
ellvn If* unmistakably one of them
He slands with the slouch of a man who belongs on a horse; and
he views the process of making a comfortable camp with the philosophic
detachment of a man who has camped In many and hard places.
He was In the Third cavalry, regular army, for si* years; on the
border three years; he was In a five-hour fight at llachlta; he was one
ol the guard that brought 40,0 m) Mexican refugees to American soil, and
he was In the relief party that drove the Vllll*tas out of Columbus after
Ihe raid lie held the rani, of sergeant, and was on Col. Scott's sluff
for a time Ills home was In San Antonio.
It's the Excitement That Calls,
And at That It's Not Always Exciting
Only a short time ago he came North and now he is going back as
a private, rather than stuy away.
Vee. I know the border pretty well all the way from Douglas, Arir...
to Brownsville. Tex he admitted "It's a hot old country.
Yes. I've seen a lot of Mexicans. Saw some of them when we chas
ed them out of Columbus.
"Oh, ye* I was scared to death the first time I was under fire
"Why I want to go back? Oh, I don't know—l guess it's the ex
citement And there isn't so much excitement about It, either. For a
good while down there I never saw a soul but the 12 men I was with,
y/e lived mostly on bscon and hardtack, and we couldn't even swim for
fear some Mexican would take a shot at us.
! "We pulled the body of ono fellow out as he came floating down the
! river He was cut up ' '""i' l 5" 1 "' ,|p W * M horribly.
I "Oh, well, 1 couldn't stay away If there » going to be something
| doing."
STATE OF WASHINGTON TO MAKE UP ONE LONE REGIMENT OF IN
FANTRY.
True, the basic appeal to patriotism is not present in this crisis. The safety of our
country and our homes is not at stake at least, not yet. We are at war with no nation.
And so, when the jingoistic press calls us cowards, and khaki-clad young men hold us up
on the streets and pin tags on us, we laugh good-naturedly and let it go at that.
Most of the recruits who are going to the Mexican border with the militia are going
because a spirit of adventure has called to them. BUI IHFRH IS NO! A MAN IN
ALL SEATTLE WHO DOUBTS BUT THAT, IF AN INVASION OF THE
UNITED STATES THREATENED OR IF THIS COUNTRY WERE FACING
A DEATH STRUGGLE WITH AN ALIEN FOE—RECRUITS WOULD COME,
NOT BY THE DOZEN, BUT BY THE THOUSANDS AND TENS OF THOU
SANDS.
We know that in time of real peril we would get an army. We know that—all of us.
But even if we did get this army, what sort of an army would it be? Even if a million
men -or ten million should offer themselves, we would have a mob of untrained citizens
—nothing more.
I hey could be trained and equipped while precious days, and weeks, and months
sped by.
They might be made ready, possibly, IN A YEAR.
And in the meantime, regiments of half trained National Guardsmen would be sent to
the front, just as the boys you will see tomorrow are to be sent, more than half of them
entirely unfamiliar with the work of a soldier.
A feature in the army reorganization bill, as it passed the senate, provided for com
pulsory military TRAINING —not service, but TRAINING. This part of the bill was
eliminated in the conference between the house and senate committees, which decided what
should go into the law as finally passed. The senate, it is understood, plans to make an
other attempt at the present session of congress to get it thru.
It is well worth further consideration.
Unless all men are taught what to do when the hour comes, the fate of the United
States and the freedom for which they stand are in the lap of the gods.
Think it over when you see the boys in khaki march away tomorrow.
.IV AM. ONF PFNT
m«< utMK >■ uiit. CLii i
3 COMPANIES UP
TO WAR FOOTING;
WILL 60 SUNDAY
Recruits Come Slowly Less
Than 24 Hours Before
• Departure
WORK HARD AT ARMORY
♦ ♦
TROOPS LEAVE SUNDAY
The Second Infantry com
panies from Seattle will march
out of the Armory at 10 •. m.
Sunday.
They will parade up Pike
place to Pike at., up Pike to
Second ave. and down Second
ave. to Cherry tt. They will
go down Cherry at, to Flrat ave.
and then up Flrat ave. to Unl
veraity at., and down Univer
sity to Railroad ave., where
troop trains will be waiting.
The men will entrain Imme
diately, without time tor leave
taking, and be rushed directly
to American lake.
Spanish war veterans and
Coast artillery militiamen will '
escort them.
Nine companies out of the
12 that make up the Second
Washington infantry were not
yet up to full war strength
Saturday.
Less than 24 hours remained
in which to assemble 229 re
cruits thruout the state, put
them thru medical examina
tions, administer the oath of
allegiance, and have them
ready to entrain for American
Lake Sunday.
Twent\ three cowpunchers from
the Ol onagon country, east ol the
mountains, arrived id Seattle Sat
urdav to Join the National (luard
troops which will go to American
Lake Sunday.
The Kiinltary corps of the Second
Infantiv will entrain for American
lake Saturday afternoon at 4:15
p. id The* have been sent ahead
rf the Infantry contingent to es
tablish a camp hospital and have
it ready when the troopß arrive
Sunday.
The Aberdeen companv reached
war strength <142 men I Friday, and
kept recruiting. An overflow of :
men there will be diverted to some
of the weaker companies
The only Seattle company up to
14" was \ company
Company K. Walla Walla, has
(Continued on pags 8j
NIGHT EDITION
wrist watch* yes hi t A STRAW HAT? NO.
AT I.EAST. NOT YET TRI E KNOI'GH IT S f.ET
TINCi VKRY NEAR JI'I.Y BUT OfR WEATHER MAN
DOESN'T SEEM TO KNOW IT HE SAYS TO
NIGHT AND fII'NDAY. SHOWERS '
DECLARES GUNS
ARE FOR JAPAN
Agent* pretending to t
represent the Japanese
government, but believed
to he attached to tlie Car
ratiza government, tried to
buy 15,000 rifles and 2,-
J 000,000 rounds of ammuni
tion from \V. Stokes Kirk,
army and navy supply
company, in Seattle Thurs
day.
I'nlted States secret service op
eratives are .searching for the
stuttering" niHn who tried to
make the purchase
Evident!} knowing that the Kirk
company ha* a large supply of
: arms and ammunition purchased
: from the f. S government, the
foreign agent went to J. K. Taylor.'
1 manager of the army and navy !
supply store. at 1209 First a\e
The agent appeared to lie an
Vmerlean. He talked with an lm
: pediment In his speech
He first told Taylor that he had
I been sent then by MaJ. I-emuel I.
j Holies assistant adjutant general
I of the Washington National Guard.
; Hater lie changed this part of his
\ story.
' I told him we had the giins and 1
I ammunition and would sell to him,"
Taylor explained to secret service J
men. "He then produced a card of
the Asiatic Exporting & Importing
company, with the name 'B. C.
Hoot, vice president.' typewritten
across the bottom.
•| askid him where the stuff
was to he sent.
• To Japan,' was his answer.
I asked him who tie represent
ied in Japan. He said that the
Asiatic Exporting * Importing
| company had been instructed to
I get statistics on the amount of
arms and ammunition in the t'nit-
States and to try to purchase 16.-
000 guns and 2,000,000 rounds of
ammunition.
"I asked him if the stuff wasn't
eventually going to Mexico instead
of to Japan.
"Ills answer was, 'Von can put a
: , , -
U. S. AVIATOR KILLED
PARIS, lime J4 Tilt* \UHM-Ii 1111
jmjator Chapman, attached lot
[French \merlcan Ihlnt < orpa. wan
killed In nit air battle Friday, after
bringing down two Herman ma
chines.
. man on Uiard the vessel and tend
him over to Japan with It If you
want to."
Secret service men are waiting to
arrest the man as soon as he closes
any deal with the army and navy
supply people for arms or ammuni
tion.
E. C. Root of the Asiatic Export
ing and Importing company, said
Saturday the man who tried to put
thru the deal did not represent W0
company, and is unknown to him.
Root faid he was working with
the secret service people.
POPE ASKS KING
OF SPAIN TO TRY
TO PREVENT WAR
BY JOHN H. HEARLEY
U P. Staff Correspondent
ROME. June 24.—Pop; Bene-
I diet held a lengthy conference
today with the Spanish ambas
sador. It la reliably reported
he discussed the advisability
I of asking King Alfonso of
' Spain to mediate between the
United States and Mexico.
WASHINGTON, June 24.—Neith
er mediation nor arbitration could
be considered In the present case,
high officials said today, when
shown l.ondon wireless reports that
Pope lienedlit was making offers
of mediation trf both President Wil
son aud Gen. Oarrsnia.
It was Indicated the two govern
ment h alone can now solve the
present problems.
f
DELAY OPENING OF
NEW NATATORIUM
i
I The bathing-suit fashion show
' and opening of the new salt water
i natatorium at Second a\e. and
> l.enora at., scheduled for Saturday
i night. have been |«>stponed until
■ Wednesday evening.
i The bis; pool and side equipment
1 will not be ready until tiicu.
