J: JUjcx. I
..;'
VOLUME XT;Y.
STE. GENEVTEVE, MISSOURI, SATURDAY. .JUNE 24. 1)H.
NUMBER f).
PRESIDENT W00DR0W WILSON
DEMOCRATS CHO
IS
Ticket Named a Few Minutes Before Midnight on Thursday,
Avoiding the Friday "Hoodoo" Delegates Evince Intense
Enthusiasm as the Result Is Announced Pres
ident at Once Notified.
St. Louis. Woodrow Wilson nnd
"Thomas Klley Marshall wore nominat
ed just before midnight June 15. lloth
nominations were mado by acclumu
tlon. President Wilson's nomination enrao
.nt 11:51 and that of Vice-President
inrshall at 11:53.
Fred n. Lynch of Mlnnesotn notl
fled tho White House by telephone at
the Instant of the nomination. A tele
.plione wire that extended Into the
speaker's stand was connected direct
'with the White Houso with a mega
phono attached to the receiver.
In n lightning sprint Mr. Mar
shall mado n record. Senator Kern
was duo for a nominating speech.
Sensing the' npproachlng midnight ho
threw his eulogy on the floor and sim
ply said: "I renomate Thomas ltlley
Marshall." Somebody seconded. Some
body moved to make It by acclamation.
And It was done, the whole Job of
nominating n vice presidential candi
date taking up Just ISO seconds.
Friday Superstition Averted.
Thus tho ancient superstition
against Friday nominations was avert
ed, although President Wilson had
made It known that ho regards Friday
as his "lucky day."
Dramatic scenes attended tho nam
ing of the ticket. Wllllnm Jennings
Bryan In nn Impassioned panygerlc
placed his O. K. upon the president nnd
his administration.
The Ncbraskan, who resigned from
the cabinet, was not a delegate to tho
convention, but ho was called to the
.platform by unanimous consent. He
lauded Wilson to the skies for keeping
the nation out of war, lauded tho Wil
son Mexican policy and extolled tho
economic legislation from tariff to cur
rency act.
Bryan at times spoko under the
strain of emotion. It was tho first
convention in 20 years In which ho has
not been an active figure, but tho ova
lion and tho outbursts that punctuated
his remarks Indicated that ho Is still
a powerful force behind tho scenes of
the party he once dominated.
Wescott Names Wilson.
The Is'ebrasknn through with his
speech, John W. Wescott of New Jer
sey placed Mr. Wilson In nomination.
As the time grew short Wescott, cut
ting short his peroration, shouted:
"I nominate Woodrow Wilson,"
Then followed a great demonstra
tion that lasted 40 minutes. Delegates
and galleries wcro roused to n high
.pitch of enthusiasm and emotionalism.
They yelled and shouted nnd paraded
and sang. Some of them wept in an
!Citncy of feeling.
Ilarmon Seconds Wilson.
Former Governor Judson Harmon of
Ohio, who was a candidate for tho
presidential nomination nt Baltimore
four years ago, mado tho first second
ing speech for President Wilson.
Tho next was by Gov. II. C. Stuart
of Virginia.
Senator Hughes of New Jetsey
moved that tho rules bo suspended
nnd tho nomination mado by ncclama-
Hald. Headed Man 'Protests.
St. Louis. National DemocraUc
Chairman McCombs Is tho most nerv
ous man In politics. When he Isn't
beating n tnttoo, rubbing his hands,
slapping his knee, walking around,
scratching his chin or twiddling his
thumbs, he's doliig something elso of
tho same sort. At the opening ses
sion of the convention hu sat nt the
edge of tho platform. A notch lower
down sat Col. Itohert Uwlng, nn ex
ceedingly rotund nnd egg-pated gentle
man from Louisiana, McCombs was
x
WILSON AND
THEIR LEADERS
Hon. The motion wan carried with a
trcmendqus roar.
Tho only objection came from Rob
ert K. Burke of Chicago, tho only anti
Wilson delogato In tho convention. Ho
shouted "No."
Senator James declared President
Wilson nominated at 11:52 p. m.
Kern Names Marshall.
Senator John W. Kern of Indiana
then was recognized. Ho' moved thut
tho nomination of Vice President Mar
shall be made by acclamation. No
nominating speech was made.
Vice President Marshall was de
clared nomlnnted four minutes after
tho nomination of President Wilson.
Numerous seconding speeches which
had been prepared were not made.
Lewis' Speech His Shortest.
Senator James Hamilton Lewis of
Illinois was Invited to the plntform to
make an nddess at 12:12 a. m. "I do
not like to Impose upon your time,"
said Senator LowIh. "I beg you will
excuse me and I express my sincere
thanks."
It was tho shortest speech of his
career.
Senator Hughes reported to the con
vention that the resolution committee
had failed to complete Its work on
tho platform. Tho convention then
adjourned at 12:32 a. m. until eleven
o'clock Friday morning.
Forty-six minutes of sheer enthu
siasm and emotion followed the nam
ing of President Wilson. The minuto I
Mr. Westcutt hod vlolderl tn tlin nil. !
Juratlnns of his audience and had spo
ken the name "Woodrow Wilson," the
galleries nud the delegates were on
their feet
An Immense oil painting of tho presl-;
dent was dropped from tho gallery ,
back of tho speakers' stand. It ex- j
cited the gathering almost to the point !
of frenzy. Georgln bore down tho
nlsle a banner "Wilson: Dixie's gift
to the nation." j
The band blared and thumped out i
"America" and "Dixie" while tho great
pit, u crater of eruptive humanity,
let out Its collective lungs and throat3
to capacity.
Bryan Lauds Wilson.
Bryan In his laudation of Wilson
nnd his policies dwelt on the possibili
ties of America as negotiator of peace
In Hurope.
"I stand with tho Democrats of tho
nation to give Woodrow Wilson a
chance to be that man," shouted
Bryan, In conclusion, und tho hall
echoed with cheering.
Details of the Night Session.
St. Louis. While the convention
was assembling for tho night session
to nominate President Wilson ft be
came knowu tho Nebraska delegation
planned to withdraw the vice presi
dency candidacy of Governor More
head. Before the convention was called to
order tho Coliseum wus so full that
tho fire department look charge of tho
entrances und permitted no more to
come In. William J. Bryan was
busily engaged listening to Governor
Glynn's keynote notes. As usual, ho
was expressing his nervousness with
his fingers. Colonel I2wlng leaped up
and stage-whispered, "If you don't quit
rattling your fingers on tho top of my
head I won't bo ublo to hear a word
that's said."
Not Dodging.
"I suppose you could manage the af
fairs of the nation In u wuy thut would
bo universally satisfactory."
"I don't say that," replied Senutor
stopped nt the door. Senator James
learned of the Nrbraskan's plight nnd
rescued him. Then tho Nebrnskan got
his usunl uproarious reception.
Chairman Jnmcs rapped tho conven
tion to order.
Itev. W. J. Hardesty, chaplain of
the Missouri senate, offered prayer.
Senator Thompson then moved a
suspension of the rides to permit Mr.
Bryan to speak. When the motion
was put there were wme "Noes," but
the chairman ruled two-thirds had
voted In favor.
Senator James Introduced Mr.
Bryan as "one of the leading citizens
of the world and America's greatest
Democrat."
In spite of tho distracting Influence
of the mob nt the doors and the laughs
that ro'to occasionally when a bedrag
gled leader finally forced his way Into
the convention .hall Mr. Bryan held
Ids audience.
Applause was frequent nnd thunder
ous. Ho spoko for forty-five minutes,
finishing at 10:07.
Glynn Is the Keynoter.
In a hnll gay with flags und bunting
nnd with pictures of party leaders,
past and present, looking down upon
them from medallions around the bal
cony, the delegute.s to tho Democratic
national convention assembled on
scheduled time Wednesday. Tho pro
ceedings were formally started when
William F. McCombs, chairman of tho
national committee, ascended the plat
form and rapped for order. He Incited
tho first burst of enthusiasm of the
convention when, In a short nddress In
troducing the temporary chairman, ho
predicted victory for the party In tho
fall.
Tho keynote speech was delivered
by former Gov. Martin H. Glynn of
New York, tho temporary chairman.
He was frequently Interrupted by np-
, plause when some point In his speech
stirred the enthusiasm of tho delo-
gates. His eulogy of President Wilson
I started tho biggest demonstration of
i the day. Following Governor Glynn's
speech, committees on credentials, per
manent organization, rules, nnd resolu
tions wero announced, and that day's
work was done.
James Permanent Chairman.
The delegates wero a little slow In
assembling for Thursday's session, and
It was almost noon when Temporary
Chairman Glynn called the convention
to order. Permanent Chnlrmnn Olllo
James was escorted to the chair and
Introduced. lie Immediately launched
Into his address. lie lauded the presi
dent and defended his policies, partic
ularly In regard to the controversy
with Germany over the submarine
warfnro und our relations with
Mexico. An enthusiastic demonstra
tion greeted his praise of President
Wilson, which lasted more than twenty
minutes. At tho close of Chairman
James' speech the convention took u
recess until ulno o'clock In the eve
ning. Before the nominating speeches be
gan at the evening session tho Demo
crats Indulged In a love feast In which
tho advent of harmony In their ranks
was celebrated.
Wilton Praised by Bryan.
Mr. Bryan was cheered enthusi
astically ns he entered tho press sec-
! Hon with Mrs. Bryan shortly after
i nine o'clock. A few minutes Inter,
I upon the motion of Senator Thompson
of Kansas, the convention suspended
the rules amid tumultuous gooil feeling
nnd Invited Mr. Bryan to the rostrum.
A committee conducted Mr. Bryan
amid wild cheering to the side of
Chairman James,
j Mr. Brynn launched Into n speech
' lauding the administration of thu pres
ident. Following Mr. Bryan's address the
convention got down to tli real busi
ness for which It had been convened
and the reuomluatlon of President
I Wilson and Vice President Marshall
I was quickly put through as related
I nbovo. Tho convention tool; a recess
I until eleven o'clock Friday morning,
I when the report of the committee on
I resolutions was presented and tho
. plntform wns adopted with little dls
cusslon nnd practically no opposition.
Sorghum. "I realize that everybody
who undertakes great responsibility
niusi expect censure from some source.
But we will not shirk. My friends and
I are determined to take our share o(
tho criticism."
Solicitude.
"Of course, you admire the dovo ot
peuco?"'
"Very much. But I don't Icikay
whether I enro to sco It flourlshlag un
der present perilous conditions nnd
running tho risk ot becoming extinct."
PLATFORM
D BY
PLANKS ON PREPAREDNESS AND
AMERICANISM ARE PRIN
CIPAL FEATURES.
CONSERVATION AND LABOR
LEGISLATION PROMISED
Philippine Independence Forecast and
Suffrage Question Is Left to States
Prison Reform Demanded Pen
sions for Families of Disabled Sol
diers Flood Control Also on the
Program Speedy Development of
Alaska in Prospect.
Following is tho text of the Demo
cratic platform as reported from com
mittee and adoptod by the conven
tion: The Democratic party In national con
vention assembled adopts the following
declaration, to the end thut tho lie oplo
Of the United States may both lealize
the achievements wrought by four years
of Democratic administration and be ap
prised of the policies to which tho parti
is committed for tho further conduct of
national affairs.
Record of Achievement.
We Indorse the administration of Wool
row Wilson. It seaks for Itself. It Is
the best exposition of sound Democratic
policy at home and abroad.
We challenge comparison on our rec
ord, our keeping of pledges and our con
structive legislation, with those of any
party of any time.
We found our country hampered by
special privileges, a vlolous tariff, obso
lete banking laws and an Inelastic cur
rency. Our foreign affairs wero domi
nated by commercial Interests for their
selfish ends. The Republican party, de
spite repeated pledges, was Impotent to
correct abuses which It had fostered. Un
der our administration, under a lender
ship which has never faltered, these
abuses have- been corrected and our peo
ple have been freed therefrom
Federal Reserve Act.
uOr archaic, banking and currency sys
tem, prolific of panlo and disaster under
Republican administrations long tho re
fuge of the Money Trust has been sup
planted by the federal reserve act. a true
democracy of credit under government
control, ulroady proved a financial bul
warlc In a woild crisis, mobilizing our
resources, placing abundant credit at tho
disposal of legitimate Industry and mak
ing a currency panic Impossible.
We have created a federal trade com
mission to accommodate tho perplexing
questions arising under tho anil-trust
laws.
We have effected an adjustment of the
tariff, adequato for revenue under peace
conditions, and fair to tho consumer and
to tho producer.
We liavo adjusted the burdens of taxa
tlon so that swollen Incomes bear their
equitable shares. Our revenues have been
sufficient In time of world stress and will
largely exceed tho expendltuies for the
current fiscal year.
Wo have lifted human labor from tho
category of commodities and havo se
curod to the worklngman the right of
voluntary association for Ids protection
and welfare.
Parcel Post System.
Wo havo ndvanced tho parcel post to
genulno efficiency, enlarged the postal
savings system, added 10,000 rural de
livery routes nnd extensions, thus reach
ing two and one-half millions oddltonal
people.
Economic Freedom,
The reforms which were most ohvl
ously needed to clear away privilege, pre
vent unfair dlscrmlnatlon and release tho
energies of men of nil ranks nnd advan
tages, have been effected by recent leg
islation. We must now remove, so far ns
possible, every remaining element of un
rest and uncertainty In tho path of tho
business men of America, and secure for
them a continued period of quiet assured
and confident prosperity.
Tariff.
Wo reaffirm our belief in the doctrine
of a tariff for the purpose, of providing
sufficient revenue for the operation of
the government economically adminis
tered, nnd untosrrvedly indorse the Un
derwood tariff law as truly exemplifying
that doctrine.
We recognize that tariff rates are nec
essarily subject to change to meet cer
tain changing conditions In tho world's
production and trade. The events of the
last two years havo brought about many
momentous changes. In soma respects
their effects are yet conjectural and wait
to bo disclosed, partleulaily in regard to
our foreign trade. Two yoars of a. war
which has directly Involved most of the
chief industrial nations of tho world, and
which has Indirectly affected the life and
Industry of all nations, are bringing
about economic changes more varied and
far leaching than tho world has ever be
foro experienced.
In order to ascertain Just what these
changes may be, tho Democratic con
gress Is providing for a nonpartisan tariff
commission, to make Impartial and thor
ough study of every economic fact that
may throw light either upon our past or
upon our future fiscal policy, with regard
to the Imposition of taxes on Imports, or
with regard to tho changed nnd changing
conditions under which our trade is enr
rled on. Wo cordially Indorse this timely
proposal, and declnro ourselves In sym
pathy with the prlnclplo and purpose of
shaping leglslstlon within that field In
nccordanco with clearly established facts,
rather than In acordnnco with tho de
mands of selfish Interests, or upon infor
mation provided largely, If not oxclu
slvely, by them,
Americanism.
That part that tho United States will
Play in the new day of international re
latlonshlps which Is now upon us will de.
pend upon our preparation and our char
acter. The Damocratla party therefore
recognize the nsserUol and triumphant
demonstration of tho indivisibility nnd
coherent strength of the nation, as tho
upreme issue of this day In which the
whole world facos the crisis of manifold
change. It summons all men of whatever
origin or creed, who would count them
elves Americans to Join In making clear
,h? V'orlJ. ,h0 """y consequent
power of America, '
iJ,in '"m" '".Uo of Patriotism. To
nu if 1 inU.MPa.r,lanhlp wouM 1)8 de
file It. In thur dy of test, America must
ABOPIE
democ:
fchnw Itself not a nation of partisans, but
n nation of p-url tts. Th,-ro Is gathered
here I'l AlnMler the bent of t'le blood,
the Industiy and the (genius of the whole
woild. the elements of a reat lace and
a magnificent society to bo melted Into
a mighty und splendid nation.
Whoever, actuated by the purpose to
promote the Interest of a fnrtlgn power
in dHregatd of our own country's wel
faro or to In lure this government In its
foreign rel.itlons or cilpplo or destroy
Its Industries at homo and whoever by
arousing prejudices of a racial, religions
or other nature, oroates discord and
strife nmong our people so as to obstruct
the wholesome process of unification, Is
falthte-s to the trust which the privileges
of citizenship repose In him and disloy
al to his country.
We thereforo condemn as subversive;
of this nation's unity and Integrity, nnd
ns destructive of Its welfare, the activi
ties nnd designs of eery group or organi
zation, political or otherwise, that has
for lis object me advancement or mo
Interest of a foreign power, whether such
object Is promoted by Intimidating the
government, a polltlcel party or repre
sentatives of the people, or which Is cal
culated and tends to divide our people
Into antagonistic groups, nnd thus to
destroy that complete agreement nnd sol
idarity of tho people and that unity of
sentiment and national purpose so essen
tial to the perpetuity ot the nation and
its frco institutions.
Conspirators Condemned.
Wo condemn nil nllUnces and combina
tions of Individuals In this country, of
whatever nationality or descent, who
agree and eonsplro together for the pur
pose of embarrassing or weakening our
government, or of Improperly Influencing
or coercing our public, representatives In
dealing or negotiating with any foreign
power. We charge that such conspiracies
among a limited numler exist, and have
been instigated for the purpose or ad
vancing the Interests of foreign countries
to the prejudice and detriment of our
country. Wo condemn any political party
which. In view of the activity or sucn
conspirators, surrenders Its Integrity or
modifies Its policy.
Preparedness.
Along with the pi oof of our character
i a nation must go tho proof of our
power to nlav tho part that legitimately
belongs to us. The people or mo L niteu
Stntes love peace. They respect tho
rights nnd covet the friendship of all
other nations. They desire neither any
additional territory nor any advantage
which will not be peacefully gained by
their skill, their Industry or their enter
prise; but they Insist upon having ab
solute freedom of national llfo and policy,
nnd feel that they owe it to themselves
and to the rolo of spirited Independence
which It is their sole ambition to play,
that they should render themselves se
curo against the haazrd of Interference
from any quarter and should bo ablo to
protect their rights upon the sens or In
any part of tho world. We, therefore,
favor the maintenance of an army fully
adequate to the requirements of order,
of safety nnd of the protection of the
nation's rights, the fullost development
of modern methods of sea-const defense
and tho maintenance of an ndequato re
serve of citizens trained to arm and
prepared to safeguard tho people and the
territory of the United States ngalnst nny
danger of hostile nctlon which may un
expectedly arise, and a fixed policy for
the continuous development of a navy
worthy to support the great naval tradi
tions of the United States.
Mexico.
The Monroe Doctrine Is reasserted as
a principle of Democratic faith. That
doctrine guarantees the independent re
publics of the two Amerlcns against ag
gression from another continent. It Im
plies as well the most scrupulous regard
upon our part for the sovereignty of
each of them. Tho want of a st.abl,
responsible government In Mexico, cap
able of repressing and punishing marau
ders and bandit bands, who have not
only taken the lives and seized and de
stroyed tho property of American citi
zens In that country, but have insolently
invaded our soil, made war upon nnd
murdered our people thereon, has ren
dered 11 necessary temporarily to occupy
by our armed forces a portion of the ter
ritory of that friendly state. Until, by
the restoration of law and order therein,
n repetition of such Incursions Is Im
probable, the necessity for their remain
ing will continue.
Merchant Marine.
Immediate provision should bo made for
tho development of the carrying trade of
the United Stntes. Our foreign com
merco has In the past loen subject to
many unnecessary and vexatious ob
stacles, In the way of legislation of Re
publican congresses. Until the recent
Democratic tariff legislation. It was
hampered by unreasonable burdens of
taxation. Until the lecent banking leg
islation, it had at its disposal few of tho
necessary Instrumentalities of Interna
tional credit and exchange. Until the
formulation of tho pending act to promote
the construction of a merchant marine. It
lacked even the prospect of ndoquato
.carriage by sea.
For the safeguarding nnd quickening
of the life of our own people we favor
the conservation and development of the
natural resources of tho country through
u policy which shall bo positive rather
than negative a policy which shall not
withhold such resources from develop
ment but which, while permitting and
encouraging their use, shall prevent both
rt'aste and monopoly in their exploitation
and we earnestly favor the passago of
acts which will accomplish these objects,
nnd we reaffirm the declaration of tho
platform of 1912 on this subject.
Good Roadi.
Tho happiness, comfort nnd prosperity
cf rural life and the development of the
city, ore nllke conserved by tho construc
tion of publln highways. We, therefore,
favor nntlonal aid in construction of post
roads and roads for military purposes.
Government Employment.
We hold that tho life, health nnd
strength of tho men, women and children
of this nntlon are Its greatest nsset, and
that In the conservation of these tho fed
ernl government, wherever It acts as tho
employer of labor, should both on Its own
acount and as nn example, put into ef
fect principles of Just cmpViymcnt.
1. A living waee for all employes.
2. A working day not to exceed eight
hours, with ono day of rest In seven.
3. Tho ndoptlon of safety nppllances
and tho establishment of thoroughly sant
tnry conditions of labor.
4. Adequate compensation for Indus
trial ncldents.
5. The standard of the "uniform child
labor law" wherever minors nre em
ployed. 6. Such provisions for decency, com
fort nnd health in the employment of wo
men ns should be nccorded the mothers
of tho race,
7. An equitable retirement law, pro
vldlng for the retirement of superannu
ated and disabled employes of tho civil
service, to the end that a higher stnnd
nrd of efficiency may te maintained.
We believe also that tho ndoptlon of
similar principles should bo urged and
applied tn the legislation of the stntes
with regard to labor within their bor.
ders, nnd that through every possible
agency the llfo and health of the people
ot the nation should ht conserved.
Concerning Labor.
We declare our faith In the seamen's
act, passed by the Democratic congress,
and wo promise our earnest continuance
of its enforcement.
We favor the speedy enactment of an
effective federal child labor law, nnd tho
regulation of the shipment of prlson-mado
goods In Interstate commerce.
Wo favor the creation of a federal bu
reau of safety in the deartment of labor,
to gather facts concerning industrial haz
ards nnd to recommend legislation to pre
vent the maiming and killing of human
beings.
Wc favor the extension of the powers
and functions of tha federal bureau of
mines.
We favor tho development upon n sys
tematic scale the means nlrcAdy begun
under tho present administration to assist
laborers throughout the nation to seek
and obtain emriovment, and the exten
sion by tho federal g-overnment of the
name asslstanco nnd encouragement ns U
now glten to agricultural training.
We demand Uai tho modern principles
of prison rcfo' u bo np,d!d Jn our federal
penal wteVw- ,
Wc favor Suffli woifk for" prltnncrs a
shall, atvo them training In remuneratlvo
occupations', so that they may,' mnko an
honest living when release,! from prison:
the setting opart of the net wages of tho
prisoner, to be paid to his dependent fam
ily or to I reserved for his own uso
upon his release: the llbernl extension
of tho principles of the federal parolo
law, with due regard loth to the welfare
of the prisoners nnd the Interests of so
clty: tho ndoptlon of tho probation sys
tem, especially in the rase of first of
fenders not convicted of serious crimes.
Wc renew the declarations of tho recent
Democratic platforms relating to gener
ous pensions for soldiers and their wid
ows, and call attention to our record of
performance In this particular.
Waterways and Flood Control.
Wo renew the declaration in our last
two platforms relating to the development
of our waterways We hold that the con
trol of the Mississippi River Is a national
problem. We favor the adoption of a
liberal and comprehensive plan for the
development and Improvement of our
harbors and Inland waterways with econo
my and efficiency so as to permit their
navigation by vessels of standard draft.
It Is the policy of tho Democratic party
to enact all laws necessary for tho speedy
development of Alaska ant its great nat
ural resources.
We favor granting to the people of
Alaska, Hawaii and Porto ltlco the tradi
tional territorial government accorded to
all territories of the United States since
the beginning of our government.
Philippine Islands,
We heartily Indorse the provisions of
the bill, recently passed by tho housfl of
representatives, further promoting self
government In the Philippine Islands as
being In fulfillment of the policy declared
by tho Democratic party tn Its last na
tional platform, nnd wo reiterate our in
dorsement of the purpose of ultimate In
dependence for tho Philippine Islands,
expressed In the preamblo of that meas
ure. ,
Woman Suffrage,
We recommend tho extension of fran
chise to the women of the country by tho
states upon tho same terms as men.
Conclusions.
This Is a critical hour In the history
of America; a critical hour in the history
of the world. Upon tho record nboo
set forth, which shows great construc
tive achievement In following out a. con
sistent policy for our domestic and In
ternal development: upon the record of
tho Democratic administration, which has
maintained tho honor, the dignity nnd
tho Interests of the United Htntes, nn-I
nt the same time retained the reppect nnd
friendship of nil the nations of the world
and upon tho great policies for the future
stiengthenlng of tho life of our country,
tho enlargement of our nntlonnl vision
and tho ennobling of our International le
lallons, as set forth above, wo appeal
with confidence to the voters of tho
country.
Wives Who Are to Be Pitied.
In tho Woman's Home Companion
a writer says: "I know plenty of wom
en In town who pad their bills and
connlvo wltji their dressmakers so as
to cheat their husbands and get spend
ing money. I also know some country
women who can't get their husbands
to put running water in tho house,
who cook on old-fashioned and
broken stoves, In Inconvenient, badly
arranged kitchens, who have neither
vacuum cleaner, tireless cooker, dish
washer, clothes wxsh or anything elso
to make work easy. They don't even
got the egg and butter money, or they
mlght buy these things themselves."
Wyoming's Mineral Wealth.
Among the undeveloped resources
of Wyoming nro bituminous shale, vol
canic ash, graphite, asphaltum, man
ganese ores, bentonlte, tin, salt, bis
muth and, perjiaps most important,
phosphate rock, on which the futuro
ot American agriculture may largely
depend. It is estimated that more
than 1,250,000,000 acres in Wyoming
arc underlain by workable phosphato
deposits, a phosphate area greater
than that of any other state.
Fighting the Cnestnut Blight.
The chestnut blight has already
done damage estimated as close to
$50,000,000. Tho disease attacks both
American nnd European specios, but
does llttlo damage to those from Ja
pan and China. Plant breeders by
crossing Japanese cliostnut and native
chinquapin bavo produced resistant
trees. Somo of tho Chinese chestnuts
are said to grow 100 feet high In their
homo forests.
Making Falling Pleasant.
An American Inventor has patented
a llte-savlng suit for neronauts involv
ing a cushioned cap nnd back and
front pads for the body, communicat
ing bo that Uicy can bo blown up by a
tubo extending to the mouth ot the
aviator, communicating pads being
provided on opposite sides of tho legs
and yielding, spring-supported shoes
being carried on the foot below Uio
waist, so that In falling te person
will fall feot foremost.
St. Ixmls Is said to rocelvo more
raw furs, 'direct from trappers and
traders than does any other fur mar
ket In the world,
Our measure of getting old Inside Is
the Inclination we have to go to the
window when a band Eoes by. Mil
waukee Journal.
WILSON NOT LONG
IN PUBLIC LIFE
Began as Governor of New Jersey
in 1910 Chosen Presi
dent in 1912.
Woodrow Wilson wns born nt Stnun
ton, Vn., December 28, 1S50. His fa
ther wns the Itev. John It. Wilson and
his mother was Jessie Woourow, a na
tive of Carlisle, England. They reared
their son carefully. He was given
every educational advantage that
ample means could afford him. The
foundations for his enrcer were laid In
private schools nt Augusta, Ga., ami
Columbia, S. R
IV-wj therfelijwent to Princeton
coIIi'ms! wheroJie took tbo full aca
demic course, graduating with high
honors In 18T0. He then entered tho
law school of the University of Vir
ginia, and on graduation was admitted
to the bnr of Georgia. He practiced
law In 18S2-S.X The net result of that
experiment wns the conviction that
for him nt lenst the way to n knowl
edge of the science of government nnd
tho opportunity to write about It did
not He through tho routine of law.
When he abandoned law practice In
I8S3 ho went to Johns Hopkins univer
sity. In 1SS0 he received the degree)
of Ph. D. from Johns Hopkins univer
sity for n thesis on congressional gov
ernment, which was afterward en
larged Into n book that met with much
success on both sides of the ocean.
Ho was married In 1S85. Ills wife was
Miss Ellen Axson, of Savannah, Ga.,
daughter of the Itev. Edward Axson.
She died In the White Houso August
G, 1014. December 18, 1015, tho presi
dent married Mrs. Boiling Gait of
Washington.
Mr. Wilson has three daughters.
Miss Margaret Woodrow Wilson, Mrs.
Trances Howes Sayre, nnd Mrs. Wil
liam Glbbs McAdoo.
Professorship at Princeton.
In 1SSS Mr. Wilson was made a
member of tho faculty of Wesloyan
university, Mlddletown, Conn. Ho re
mained there only two years, his repu
tation ns n writer and educator hay
ing nttrncted the attention of his alma
mnter, nnd he was Invited to the chair
of Jurisprudence and political economy
at Princeton.
He again Joined his fortunes with
Princeton when In the fall ot 1800 ho
took the chair of Jurisprudence nnd
politics nt that Institution. Ho held
this chair nt Princeton for twelvo
years, writing during this period his
famous work, "A History ot the Amer
ican People."
When President Francis Lnndey
Pntton In 1000 nnnounced his Intention
of retiring, Doctor Wilson wns nt once
looked upon ns his logical successor.
The fnct that ho was not an ordnlned,
minister nt first threatened to stand In
tho way, as some of the faculty and
board of trustees wero not In favor of
breaking the old precedent.
But the qualifications of Doctor Wil
son were so strong that this objection
was quickly overridden, and ho was
formally Installed ns president In 1002.
Mr. Wilson remained as the head or
Princeton for ten years. He had al
ready nttrncted great attention, nnd
even nt that time ho was pointed out
ns possible presidential timber. He
had taken a part In politics, nnd In
1010, when the Democratic organiza
tion discovered thut It must put up a
strong candidate to win the state, Wil
son was selected us the man.
Mr. Wilson was elected governor by
a plurality of about 50,000.
Within six months after nssumlng
the governorship he had Induced the
leglslaturu to pass a series of laws of
tho most ndvanced type, such as tho
primary election law, tho corrupt
practices net, tho employers liability
act, u public utilities net, a municipal
commission government law nnd
sterilization or antl-procreatlon net.
! Mentioned for Presidency,
j In tltc second year of his governor
' ship his boom for president wus start
; ed under the management of William
j r. McCombs, one of his former stu
j dents nt Princeton. During tho pre-
convention months no less thut half a
' dozen other entrants for presidential
honors made their appearance.
At the subsequent Democratic na
tional convention at Baltimore, June
27-July 2, Mr. Wilson bent out nil en
tries with a vote that Increased nt
each roll call till his vlcturv was re-
j corded ou the forty-sixth ballot. In
tho election that followed he was nn
easy victor over the Taft and ltooso
Mlt tickets, though his entire popular
vote did not reach that accorded Wil
liam Jennings llryati In 11)08.
The Wilhons in America date about
n century back when James Wilson,
grandfather of tho president, cnuio
over from Scotland and settled In
Philadelphia. From there he went to
Steubeuvllle, 0 which was then on
the frontier. Ho published a newspa
per und practiced a little common
law nnd was known as "Judge." The
president's father, Joseph It. Wilson,
wns born In Steubenvlllu and grow up
umld the hardy and manhood-making
surroundings of the pioneer country.
Leap Year Preference.
Him How would you like to tilki
va sail on my new yacht.
Her I'd rather go with you on a
ship.
Him What kind of a ship!
Her A court-ship.
Strict Restitution.
lie Do you reully believe that all -f.'-
stolen goods must be restored? t
She Of course, I do. fi
Do Then, since my conscience Htf jJ,
troubling we, will you let me return., v
trnil tb Iflft f Mt.tta Inul ntr,t
