The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV St. FRANCISVILLL, WEST FELICIANA PARISH, LOUISIANA, SATURDAY, JUNE 24, ISI NO. 21
FAT ING HOGS
IN LOUISANA
With the rapidly iLll.rcreusig nIns etr
of Pgom hogs b. tug raisetd in lAnI,i4ltaia
and a btwtter applrcy'ialctil o it Io he' psl
hlittl,, for profihctbl', I,rk Ipr~.uctiot,
ther Is beintig r.(od .a oseorasl pIlan
for both the grow ing and fattening of
hogs which ,ne.-ts the needs peculiar
Th. h ohld touethewl of letting the holl s
runi wild on the openl range, eking cots
a prec'arilts existence for the nuiost
part, and fattening on acoil rns, iech
mast. eta.. has beavn very largely abanH
doneld, and a systel of lclt ivattede crops
is plannetd in such a way as to piro ide,
grazing all through the grow ing pIritod
and an abutlndane of faillnti Ing ialterial
avaliable % hen needed Noni' have
attempted to foliow lthe plan lof tPlenllintU
the hogs and carrytngltheir fooId to
them This method aytil) result in very
early maturity and large gaii, but Ilhi'
eost of both food and labor is too great
for profitable returns.
The plan res.omllmend.ed by the Stat.e
lxpelriment Station, ansd which is being
qutlite gientrally adopted, is to grazse the
growing pll oan toats and clovers dur
ing the intter and spring, changing to
Blerinud grass as the summer ad.
vasnes. I)uring this timle only a smlall
amount of grann is given, the Id.ea
being to carry the pigs along as cheap
ly as possible, while at the same time
tmaking a fair rate of growth.
The fatltening period starts with early
corn and peas, which are ready to
grase about July 15 Ioth lthe fall and f
spring litters are turned into the fields,
the young pigs picking up most of the
grain which the larger hlgs would
otherwise waste. This crop a111 carry
the pigs until about tieptembr 1, w hen
the soy beens or peanuts are ready for
grif-ing. As before, the smaller pigs
will ptok up the sceattering grain aod
make rapid gains. As both soy beans
and peanuts are low In carbobydrates
and very rich in protein, corn is fed in
connection to balance the ration. The
pigs grase this crop until about No
vember 1, when sweet potatoes are
ready. The fali pigs, those born the
previous fall, will now be nearly ready
for market, and may be penned and
anlibed oa corn and cotton-seed meal.
or may be allowed to grase on the po
tatoes with the younger hogs. The
lar-est pins per acre are always made
with sweet potatoes, but the resulting
fat is soft and oily. To offset this, as
well as to secure better returns from
the sweet potatoes, one pound each of
corn and cottonseed meal per head is
fe daily. After graling the potatoes
for about six weeks, the pigs will
usually be nearly ready for market.
and are usually penned and finished
with corn and eattontaeed meal. If any
potatoes are left in the . eld, they are
ltherend by brood mows and young pis.
It will be noted that the hogs are
made to ptiher practliclly all of their
food. This not only saves a gIreat deal
of tabor, bet by actuall experlece,
proves to be an economical pranctiCe,.
the hoga makling from one-third to one
fourth greater ganls per arre when
allowed to grase the crops than they
would make were they confitned and
the food brought to thenm. This differ
elne is due to the fact that they eat a
large amount of the stems and leaves
of the peas, soy tweans and peranuts,.
whhob mare rich in prtlein, to say
notlhing of the gralln and the rowpeas.
- I. I Jordan, Ia. ltati University.
POLICE JURY MEETING.
lSt. Pranclsillhe, I . Jlune t, t19P1.
TbI Pol'le Jury met in aslejorlnle'
meetnllgl with the following membersr
presnt l. P'. IIloweli, lPr-'id'nt.; A. .
nrsa nux. II, ,. Kaufman. 14 I' ('obih,
J. I. Austen. T. II. Row. N. II. Itarrow.
J. F. Marymans, .. l~e averlne.
Thle uassessent of the Wllhelm iunr
her Company was raised fronm 936.ctO,'
to 3,000,000 feet of lumber.
The lerertary was instructed to
wrlte to the proper aulthorittis to ash
that r). Jargo e  left In ( hnrge of lr
eats until the close of the season
The Secretary was instructetd to
write to Dr. Flower, asking him to
authot'tIe the dipping vat Inspect.. ti
furnlish the assesor with a IHst of
rattle dippedl at each vat. prior tc, dlate
hereof, and the names of their owinernr
Seceretary insiructed to write to
president and memlers of the P'olicel
Jury of iCastl i'lleiana urginlg thHs to
take up the matter ol the repairs to
the Trhompson creek brltllges at th.lir
next ltttagl.
C. FP. Ih)WiClI.. Presldent.
S'. TTOORAEN. Clerk.
QUALITY OF BUTTER DEPENDS
UPON PROPER HANDLING
OF MILK.
When there are as many as four
I'ras on thet farm, a small cream
s.elurattor will prote' to tw a good in.
velstnelnt. but with fewer thaun that
nruther, or If a separator cannot be
ufforrd. hand skimming of the cream
% ill re'dcel' the' labor in butter-mtaklng,
and Itend to improve the quality of the
hutter. pro ilded the cream so obtained
la iSop.erly hantdled. When this method
Is pr'ratie'd, separate milkings are set
hi (CemIl. wesll.ventliated places anid aI
loIed to stand for from 12 to 18 hours'
for the 'reami to rise. when it Is
skiunmted off with a cup or larg'e spet
nced lplaced In a can which rnllt n i'
keth It asn cold a )plaee as petsible'
4kietntint fr(on dlfferent milkings ar'
aitcliced to thin sttock ran until a sullflienplt
qiaitlte is obtainied for ch('urning Wh'en
: cllhurnitntg is otbtlla ed it should t., so't
to ripen or ttsour. c'ream from setparaite
inlki itigs l lltl In c'olltedl to 1the same'l
telllpe.rature' before b~inl pnoured to
g-'lhe'r. then the mlixture cooled as lo0
as lImthlble 4 SO degrees P. or lower i.
Iand kept so in a well.ventilated place
until I' to 18 hours before churning.
whlen it should Ire thoroughly stirre'd.
and broruight to a temperature of to
degr,*es I" by placing the can In a
buckelt of hot water. f)uring the rise'
of temperature frequent stirring is
nellessary The temperature should
alway)-s he measured with a dairy ther
monmeter, which can be bought for
from 1 to 'O cents. RSet at 70t degrees
P. for 12 to 1t hours cream will take'
on; a velvety glossy appearance and
sacquire, a pleasant, clean mildly sour
Iaste. which indcates It is ready for
churning. The setting process is called
riwpening If there are lno means uof
ke'eping the milk and crealm cul,
churning l a ll have to be done mQre'
frewluently to prevent the milk and
creamr from getting too sour and de
e-eloping bad Savors.
DIST T ORAY
A district Sunday School convention
will be held at the M. . Church. St.
Pranetsrlvlle, Sunday, July 3. Wilhelm,
Star H111i. Chaney Creek and St. Pran
elsville are Included In this district.
All are cordially invited to attend this
meeting and take part In the following
program.
Afternoon Seston, 3:30 P. M.
Song.
Prayer.
Scripture Readlnlg,
Song.
Respondlin to Roll ('all with Scrip
tre V'eresa.
The MFemmentary Department - MiteA
fintnlle ionkter.
Teachler Training- W. S. 11lnm.
Primary Work-Mlss Sallte Raynham.
I~Cctin of Offltrcers.
Night Heslon, 8 P. M.
Sonlg.
Prayer.
sonl,
Adult Bible Plas --Mrs R. 5. Winn.
Hlome )epartment- A. . RogitlIto
Ihlw to Increase Sunday thclOOl At
tenldance (flo. W. Newmarn.
(Gruded Iessnms In the untday Schooi
.hmeph Pl'Iatt.
A. R. R(llIIIO. Prelsident
W . S i,IBI, Secretary.
SWEET POTATOES FOR HOGS.
"The sweet potato is probably the
Itest rmoot crop for fail and winter graIx
inlg or higs." says Professor W. R.
Ikdtedson. llrector.,xperiment Rtations.
I.. S. II. "and the cutover pine hill
ltnds of the State will likely develop
as a ro-ralllsing country for the reaon
that the soils are preominently suited
to the production of aweet potatoes.
peanutsl and cow peas, and alsoM pro
dure fairly Lgood oats for winter gramzing.
"Sweet potatoes planted in June and
eairly July w ill be ready for feeding
about the middle of October. tiols
lturned In them at that time a·ll prob
ably root out mtre potatoes than they
will oat. Ibt there will not be very
much isms from this. An acre of pots
aoes w ill feed eightlt to ten hogsl, one
)tar o,1d, for siaty da)'y, it supplement.
e,4d by such feeds as ricepolish and
bran "
The, aaMessors' bill has passed the
IHlolne ulnlanimously and the herllts'
hill Is on the say, having thus far
morne dowa all oppositlon.
The appropratlnas bill has been cut
to at the rcvmnu.
CmtOPS THAT MAY /E PLANTED IN
JUNE AND JULY.
tnpanlsh peanuts, soy beans. (ermnlan
millet. sorghum, and cow prea are
among the erops that may be' planted
and satisfactory returns expected,
Spanlsh peanuts may be planted up
to the lst of July and make a good
crop. They are espelally desirable
where hogs can be allowed to harvest
them.
Kay btans, preferably the Mammoth
Yellow, may be planted any time from
Jnne to the latter part of July and
ttillied for foraget or for a grain crop.
They should he planted In rows as
close together as cultivation will per
mit and cultivated two or three times.
Most soils are naturally Inoculated for
soy beWans. It may take' a little' more
if the rows are le.s than thre'e feet
apart, or a little least if the rows are
more than three feet apart. They
shaold be drtilled so that the stalks
will e ttwo to four inches apart in the
drill
Probably the eatch crop that re
qulires le'ss timne for maturity is ;e'ran
millet. Harvest may ei' made ordi
narily in sixty to sixty-fve days from
time of planting. The quality of hay
Is fairly good if cut tefore' the' seed
are fully mature, and the yield is good
on good land, but the draft on the soill
Is pretty heavy.
Almost any of the sorlthums may he'
planted up to the Iot of July. and vae
rleties such as the Kparly Amber. Early
Orange and (loleman may be planted
eonaliderably later. When planted Ln
mid-summer they will approilmately
matur Ia I satyp-ve to seveaty days.
erahtim can only be Itdus to advam
Staigc, however, for sliling or for miSk*
ing .iage.
I'rneticrally every one is familiar wLth
rotw pttea. The New lra is one of the
vert ti,et varieties for late planting:
it can hbe planited utp to the let of
AIIKugus and maker a pretty good crop
of tetIh seed and ha) W. Ht. Ikaloton.
l irce'toer, Ixlpriment $t#lltions. I, R. II
-- ..4- .......--
NOTICE.
'h. tt next examinationl for toachers'
c', erttfitteell will ihe htchll Jily 24, 2t. .
I V hil'~i. 27, tl, 29 (cI)olotreFfl.
f a;u, ti1ilel ibti l ctt Atpti nflo t for al dver
first gr:tile welhjets will be given ap
plit clts %ho nit nleot t ice f their inten
I( )or oa I tItkin t ung l, inatt i4o It srite'ali
Iirrt g rat' ialeject'is. Pt4ll'l Iuai e' mital
be its thltel hands cef the leriash usliperln
thlell'ntll July 1ot.
Ir aeddtl iten toi tih cuetlllins lupoa thbe
Tli .trs atln i .\rt of T'ea'hing for first
aRr del. etppllicantsl, t etl of questionel
cIalet lI'*· -halenlc. -Will h1w offered as an
,plit  ! i uhjt.jc t to first grade appll
With the et'(eI)tlions Il)td abolve. the
prs,ltiois foºr grmnitin tetrcherts c'r
litill'ts ar tlb s ,ame as in provinus
cunrnitusilaeions
I. V (t'RIMP'.
Parish caperintenadent.
S~.l l.gs tial tiotlil ry canl be cured
itt rullihinig the, f(e0t1 andt shatnke with
keritet.ne aned larel. IRepeat puce a weerk
for several times untli ecred. Where
the legs are very scaly the) should
be Atart wsaked in warm soapy wafter.
to sotee the scal.s.
Road Construction In Louisiana.
IIly i'. E Kerr. Assistant State Hligh- I
wa) Engieelr, in Modern I'armnirln
It Is not a quest i1on tocAy as to
whether or not you can afford to ie.
prove your highways arccording to
nntldern stantidards, but It is a lquelstionl
as to a hothelr or not you cali atffio rd
not to hiilprtru e them>, that confronts
you It it a i'l Ie'ncIgh to learn ai ow
and I'tnsI to mnore se(entifletr lly till
),our lands, so that you may Itherebyl
raiste .better, Iarger and moret di,,rni
tli'd crops; but of lhat tea,' doies this
knlow le'dge proseit if your couintr) rOtils
are ,eah tha. t yeou cannot eteeoonaih'iilty
get Ih tee' cropr s to tnarket? It it Ineli.e
all)thing to you toI hbe able' to have,
hiKhani travel open to you e' ry data
Of the' i)'alr, if It (llIl m n anytlllhing ItoI
you to 1)' taht' tet haul ).otr Ipretueic
froin onei-half ti one.'third of ahIt, It
Sc-tlea on upo, s Ia you~r nelin aroci ed ro;cdsd;
if it iiteais aInti )lhing to you to inlprct',
illr t4o tall i' M tild san tal comllltelttnles.
atld )optur nrural IthIl re lce'. Iludi 't e0.l
Jtassible effort to bring ablat s staell'
itO highway improtve'ne'lnt in this state
The passing of Act i9 of 1910,l, e're
ating the State' ilighaay Ie'partme'nllt
and "reqeuiring tIhe thurrd of Statte kEn
gineers to assume control of state hith
ways unde'r cerlltain contdlitlons; to al0et
ia State llighway lll ngineer; to deflne'
1hlets powers and dot lls; to auithorlnix
the' constructi'lo and mallite'anteele oft
highiays uinder ce'rtain rt'gulatloit;: to
authorize the acquisition by expropria
tion or olthe'rtwis, of rigllht-f ay- for
highwa ys. drainage, antnals, or ditches;
to pro idt a revenue for arr) lug outll
the objects aned purlsen es of ea this ne't.
anld to provide for the' dlihLtcurs'te'tlll
thllereof; anid to re'quire' thel paristte'
c to rltributeb a certalll proportlion af
thei ('HIt of conalrt-lling Iland nImainti'
lianae otit highways: defining a state.
highway. etc...' vested this Hoard with
authority and poler, which. If not
disturbed and interfered with iti its
present labors, and tuntramltelted by)
local self-interest and .gilllv il . r!A
tionatl prejudiceL, is destined to do more
.toward the developme.nt of our state
and Its agricultural resourrce thatn
any other factor.
This art, together with Article 201
of the (:Costitution, vests the HIoard of
State RInine'ers, through the Hlighway
Department, with authority and power
to give State aid. both monetary and
supervisory, to the various parishes
towards the construction of State high
ways throughout IA)uislana. under cer
tain conditions, and provides a revenue
for aiding in the carrying out of the
work so undertaken. This revenue,
which amounts to only ahbnet $140li,0tN
annially, at this time is derived from
a State tax of onefourth of onet mill
on the dollar for the purpose' of c.relat
ilg a highway frund with which to aid
the parshes In construcllting and main
taining State' highways, and. Is, hn mny
optinion. one important section of the
State highway law which ne'eds ameneci
inl to the extent lof providing a larger
reve'lnuel, since the amntecnt now at the
, . . .. .... . . - .-. -- l
coumitlnd of tlw deparitment is not ult
tieentll to appease, the, appe'tiltes of tihe
iumlwtr now applying for it.
T'he law provide' that the expense,
of all tork, both for 'onstruction and
ma iitenallllce', shall b' rotrne teuatllly by
the stacte' and perish. each respectively
piioK ii l e-half the h coatl. Considering
ith. frlt that there ifre- 64 parishes in
our Stele, ~all d that undeir the' law, 'each
piarilsh I's i litleiid to aid annually up to
the' IImt of $i9,Atll ll, onl" can oeaslly
tnuitne- the lc oilditio l of affairMl should
e'ch aei,,I ~eeri ) ltiarish a lply for and
Ie 11n idtl m ife tar alnt In tll. 'lortu
iatrelh ihe' Iae, ltheritie's e the I arietus
I,, lathe'. thaIt iarl being h ai'ddt realitse
Sill fi tiaincial cetnlititolsl of the depart
ile fit ;andie are' iIhati efed lto get whaitevei r
it Jlidr,. ate! the depart nernt filds lit
'weihtle. to e.tent,. fur mnest) of theism
:Ip'rttlei t4 that isII mIaI.IItteIr how Ituch
iners.-h the .llect ofl an propet is to the
elt.r tioiir t t' w 'gr'etI)e ollf tes by h th e
:ats'iinieng till rs'ponstlhility for the
iprJle'r _'4eu'ioitl4 of the wo mrk, and the
ftretishtih ofe triainet supilie'rvisiotnt As
a resullt of ithe broad tihaw taken by the
p,.itistfl' that have, ree''ived State aid,
the proportilon of. paliynent borne by
theS tate :andi the' pariesh on dtiferent
prljije-tsa, hocas rited from onehallf and
4l4t|e: half tIo onet-tnllt and Ilne-telnth,
r-s'1.11 ke'l I}, of the' total aost; the
l anullitel tulel I.!- thte SlWiate. depetelndlni
.ulles the sm llloihr of applicatllions sub.
:ic iic-dl .yh I. lie aalriouts parishe's and the
inaituide, of teach piroject tindel'rtaken
ilhiold the' artlite- of the' Co'tist i tulliltit ,
retl.lti'r to Ithe' talt' highway fund. be
an dd els asic toii prtr fidei' for it lIirger
rre rie-' for lthe snee's oft the' deepart*
rl' it of ifat liaist eetietlll on the' dollar.
tull .tas-te' \% iiled e' int IM ittleeli, through
lth- Itighai;tI l 'partmen'tet, to carry to
StIi-f i'.cltil oltlnplet ionl the' sstem of
Iriltesond Statle aid hilhhal, e'mbrae
Ing sone 4m.rit milles as planned by the
elpatrtlnin within the exat sil years.
wltn-' the. orgnial!ation of the High
4 fe rpaarietent in 1911, there have
lte'e-t' cistro'tel(d and inmproved. to
April +o, 419., a total of 591 44 miles
of siate' highways. and in addltloni to
thhl therre aTre' 54. miles now under
-eiinstllt'leion1, with the' prospect of about
120 mlilles more bthing contracted for in
the' vairious paritshes to be placed under
,ienictrullction within the year. which
whe-n e-cnmleted., will make, a grand
ittlal ef apiproximately 767 miles., makt
Ing nil ..ve'ragle of about 1150 miles of
hllgha;;ys placed uinder ronstnrction
pwr ).':Lr, on an averagel annual revenue
of $117t.itti,. l'remn these figllres and
at thits rate of progrenss, a highway
fltund, derlived from a one-millt tax,
which wouldt amllount ott the prelsent
asse#art:elnt to $l5'0.1Ith peer y.ear, the
ifireha aý I'jclartmecnt could, tunder
• 4hilMnteid tand this eitpe'rantion plan,
tniild tl tld improve oin ain average of
7iH1o itcl,- per ye.ar. at which rate it
S(ei11,i rleuirell' tly)' abnMt six years to
roiielete"le andl immprove the milePage of
mal;ite linel mnnrke't roads shown in the
ystr'ni of tpre poeed Slate-ald highways.
.... 1.... r 11 a......... ~ esggg
n-I In n I u n
PUNCTURED SQUARES OF COTTON
PLANT MUST SE GATHERED
UP AND DESTROYED.
- The suIecets of the fight against the
td bol weevil depe-nds upon the thorough
nemes with which the eggs1 nd nm
im atullrre stagess are destroyed. All punc
id tured yellsw squares from both the
stalk and the ground should be gather- t
y d land burnedl. The life of the over
wintered female weervil Is limited, and r
nio eggs hatched means ino second
,h ge-Ineration of the weevil or practically
io none it In not the over-wintered weevil
ly that ruins the crop but their grand- Ie
Id children If the children are destroyed I
id bhere can t rno grandehltren P
- If it were, pewalbles to snake a perfect I
rI fight the weevil could he wiped out it
s The fight can he madce effertlive -enough, u
w. Hwever, to allSw the cultural melthods I
.r to mature a profitable crop of cotton *'
t on wellsdrained oamm. or candy loams 14
I, which will mature the crop quickly I
h before the we.vill multiply suffciently
1e to take all the fruit formed. The squares "
e should be gatheredl up and destroyed
5 every seven or eight days from the l
e' time they begin to form until July 10
e to 25! By this time the over-wintered fi
a we-vil are practically all dead, and If to
le the fight has been made with thorough- p
1, ness few weevil will be hatched. o
sy The coat of the fight is variable, de a
It pending upon the kind and supply of a
,d labor used. Mason hlnowden, aten- ti
Sslon Diiviaion, L. 1. I, . II
THREE DANGIROUS DISEASE- fi
CARRIERSl .
The common house--ly carries the te
t germs of typhoid fever, tubercuttlsis, i
Sand other dlangerous diatases swat ii
, him! I
er The buzzard carries the infection of it
h. arbon. hsug cholera. etc. bang him! p
r. The cattle- tick carries the germs of
Texas fever and plays havow with our
o cattle ndustry kill him! The dippingl
vat and the standard arsenical solution
. will do it effectively. n
>e a
o CNEmGTATOES
rt it
Sfelrct firm red tomatoes of uniform o
r size, put into tray and lower into boil
h Inlg water for about one minute, to i
d make .akin come ofi easily. Plunge
Idnto cold water to make fruit firm and
I peel promptly. feie a slender pointed
n knife to cut out the core, being careful
inot to cut iato the ised cells.
d All cans and utensils should be thor.
y oughly sterilised by boiling for to
minutes. Pack tomatoes in can as
h c-losely as possible to within one-fourth f
inch of the top. Weigh cans, No. l's
should contain not lens than h 2 ounces
and No. 3's not less than 33 ounesa of
tomatoes,. a
S Mi sugar andi salt In the proportion
Sof one-third sall and two-thlirds suger.
dl lt two level teaspmoonfutls of this msl
t ltre In each No, .1 can of ttmfate*e and
a rone isaspxmnful in each No. 2 can. Put
p the cap ont the can, leavinl the vent
. hole, open, place cans In tray and lower
. Into bolIing water, almost Immerslnllg,
allowing cans to remain for 2 mlnutes
h to drive out the air. Tip Use ecna Im
Smediately after exhausatlng and corn
plets-ly immerse In boiling water. No. 2 t
ceasts require if to 24 mlnutes ct)ooking c
No. :I rlequire 2 to 3 t minutesl. ('ount
from the time the water first blsa, Y
after immersing the- rcas, and keep it
boitirlln constantly, ('cl as qtuickly as Ule
posaible. r
If alass jars are used put tops on i
kxlcely. set in water nearly to top and II
hOil. pint jarn t minutest and quart
Jars 359 minute-sP. The tOIps should be s
tightstne-ed as aon as the jars are- rs.
imnivel from thI wlater Ikt careful in -
Srsmnusving ll iot plalce jars Il a i draft Ii
itn calnnilng lth a steamt pr-smelre i
ii.s-anr, he- cant are 'rapped and tippe-l s'
t Imnlmedlialely after fillilg lsarc in tr
s'nlelll-r ansd prow#ln No . cean rlequire a
2t5 minutes- at 228 dlegrees. , lib pre IIt
surel; No 3 cransl. 2 milnltes at 23:12 to IN
'i; delsrees. Is. pressure Miss Alre !*
' Kceler. AMssistant in Canning. Junior II
n I tlfKtst isotnl tlepaltrtlse-et, isluisarsa ttate Ie
I tniv rait , r.
I1 htlehige-* in myself bieIlleve that
r ihhate-vr IstlIake-s I lmay or may sst al
l* lhAe madne h-re-tfifore. I am sendoesw-d
witliinele-tles pssliithlitica fr growlth. te
'-ruseel lr-mneuh, and devc-lspnnt is
t. akingll each today better than itsr a
YCsll-rday and each tenmoirrow Iletlr p
Sthasn td~ey I bslies in nmy work n
Ih b-lie-ie it ftrc's uppocrtuniti-s is an II
k Industry, requiring faithful laior; as i n
rea prnfe -seion. relutring sierletlier knowl- p
id dige; as a butines., requlringl com
r mer-ital ability each with its challeng t1
and it. reward."--mbaag. S
ONEIN CT LETIl
One cent letter postage is attracting
the attention of Congress, 5o bills caill
lag for the Inauguration of a onut cent
rate on local delivery letters having
bIten introduced.
Mlany newspapers throughout the
country are warmly advoratnll the
lower rate, and the inauguratior n of a
iecalled "'one" systeml for the trasis
portation of periodical literature of all
kinds At the present time the great
bulk of smail being carried distances
under econdelass rates is furnished
by the magaItlle publishers of the large
eastern cities. Train load after train
load of magasines are sent out to all
parts of the country at a cost of one
cent a pound, although it has btwe
estimated by postal experts that it
costs over eight cents a pound to de
liver such literature
This, it is claimed, Is manifestly un
fair to the publishers of newspapers In
local territories, who are required to
pay the same rate for transportation
of their products It in proposed, and
will become part of the readjustment
of postage rates when such are made,
that a sone system be established anso
that a certain rate shall be charged for
all rlassas of publication for the rst
fifty miles. another for f0 to 160 milesn.
another for 1IO to 300 miles, and so up
to a haul which would extend across
the continent. Ia this way the pub'
lishers of big magazines would be
resuire'd to pay the government what
it actually coats to transport their
prodict
Under the present rate the United
States mails transport such magaslnes
as lasIle's an average of 1000 miles at
the same rate they would charge a
newspaper for the average haul of fifty
milel. Thla means a large subsidy for
Leslle's Weekly, amounting to about
$400,000 per annum. Some of the other
magzliae., having a much larger cir
culatlon, benefit to a much greater
degree. When It Is considered that
Leslie's Weekly charges over $1300 per
page per slnlgle lssue for its advertis
Ing space, and that onehalf or more
of the periodical is taken up with ad
vertlling, It hardly seems fair to usera
of letter postage and to newspaper
publishers that they should pay the
government a profit of t00%, when
nons of is used to defray general
expenses of the department, but groes
instead to take care of the deficit
created by the lossm Incurred in dis
tributing these magasines at one cent
a pound. a rate which is almost a
franking privilege.
Newspapers which eshould properly
represent the territory in which they
are published, and carry the advertise
ments of the nationally advertised
productsl in their terlritories are seldom
_-nsidered nowadays in the diltribes
titn of big advertisang appropriations.
The money goes rather to hupe mans
sine corporations which are growlnlg
fabllously rich. and which pay only a
fraction of the cost to the government
for the servlce, furnlshed them.
The reason one large magalane Inal
ne is paylng proflta may be noted in
the case of three trade publications
contrlled by it. The acitual value of
these phublication isn about $2,noIHI.
yet, owingl to advaIntage given hlv the
seco- clias rate and the resultlant In
crease in their advertisingl they were
recently sold for $1,100.,000. It is de
clared that upon its latter valuation
they paid a stock divlidend of 6t'l
When it is realised that the publish
ers oi newIspapers in the smnaller towns
land cilt-es narrly more thatll rlreak
teen antd mnake a living fInml th.ir pub
lia(lionts, is it not fair that the' govern
mI.tit should rollect fromn th.ese hgll'
e.tporatilons t(he cost of sitriicr eln
tailed'" This remanrkable emndlitionl ofi
affairs has leii re,'aIed by)' inrstigal
tions which hate been made b) the'
Natlllnal IIn- t1ent lAttelr Polltagle As
socintioti with headquarters at t'le've
land. O)hio This associetiotn is seeking
to secure' a one centl letter raItel cild a
r-'.edjlstsmnent of charges mad.- oln the
carr inlg of mscl nd ilclass t whclhl is
ery Iargtl'ly furnished by the bll miall
salne publishers
It is pointed lout that if a row t a),
tetn werel to be applied the rulle on
letter postage coulld be lowredl the
advertising piaed in the hocral tie.w
papers where It elongs, and the hbli
magazlines required Ite share ione*. of
their Ifanlc'y prlit with the' oivtertl
nient. which is now carrying their
proluct at a lokw estimated at uver
l$7eletonOO perl year. fur at thel. prt'net
time the department is losing over
lih,e0e,0 per year on perodicall mall.
