OHIO ? i ATE
UNIVC-:." ,1 fY
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NONPARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 10
CINCINNATI, OHIO, JUNE 24, 1916
One Dollar a Year
v lt rl x. -v If yMfSl ,G - I.
4. rntu) m ib virtBair7iLdi r- jil
w - jfiv b aiavdiiuea ' m Mr!W n imw ltwtj
i 'l1 ll "Sffli r"" i Tffrf
1-mMI.v ..-MMH!t1Mii. nW
'
Herbert Doty Acquitted of Murder
Still the Persecution Will Continue. Elston, the Precocious Assistant Prosecutor, States that
He Intends to Try. Teeters, Perry and Vincent Doty Anyway Notwithstanding His Boss
John V. Stated That if One Case Fell, That They All Would Fall. Keep it Up the
Toboggan is Getting Closer, the County Can Afford it and the Young Man Needs Practice,
After less than three hours' delibera
tion, the jury in Judge Caldwell's (Crim
inal Division) Court Tuesday freed
Herbert Doty on the charge of first de
gree murder, in connection with the kill
ing of James Shall, non-union painter,
by Gabriel Sullivan, in Christ Hospital
annex, December 0 last.
lhe jury stood 10 for acquittal against
2 for conviction, until the final ballot,
when all voted not guilty. The trial was
the second one faced by Doty, the first
having resulted in a disagreement after
several hours' deliberation, the jury then
having stood 10 for acquittal against 2
for conviction.
After this trial, Prosecutor Campbell
took the case to the Supreme Court on
rulings and the charge delivered by
Judge Cosgrave, then on the Criminal
Division bench. Supreme Court upheld
Prosecutor Campbell's contentions on
nearly every point, and the second trial
was upon the lines laid down by the
higher tribunal, the result being that the
trial continued but a few days.
Shall was killed during the painters'
strike last winter, when a number of
uniqn .painters went to, tjie hospital annex
Ivnti
Herbert. Doty, Ed ward. Berry and Emory
Teeters were. arrested at Eaton, O., .and.
brought back to Cincinnati. Vincent
Doty was arrested in'this city." " '
, bullivan pleaded guilty to second-degree
murder, after all five men had been
indicted for first degree. -Doty was the
first of the othqrs tried for- complicity
in the murder, and at' the first trial Sul
livan testified for thq State against him.
When the second trial was on and Sulli
van was called to the stand, he demanded
the right to speak to Doty's counsel, and'
when denied that right refused to testify
for the St?te.
The defense did not call Sullivan to
the stand, as was expected, nor did Doty
take the stand in his own defense. Ar
gument was concluded last Tuesday
morning; shortly after;noon Judge Cald
well completed his charge, the jury at
once retiring-to deliberate.
Doty's wife and two young children
were in the courtroom with him contin
uously during both trials, and were witty
him when the verdict was returned. As
Doty is also under indictment on a
charge of assault to killlClarence Kroger,
another non-union painter, who was
breat'en severely at the hospital the same
day Shall was killed, Doty was ordered
remanded to the custody of Sheriff
Schott until bond was given on the
second charge. .Sidlivan was taken back
to the penitentiary, where he is serving a
life sentence for having killed Shall.
' Attorneys Thomas T. Cogan, Arthur C.
Fricke and Howard N. Ragland de
fended Doty, and Prosecuting Attorney
John V. Campbell and Assistant Prose
cutor Charles "H. Elston represented the
State. Prosecutor Campbell had left for
Columbus before the jury reported yes
terday, but Assistant Prosecutor Elston
stated that the State still expects to try
Perry, Teeters and Vincent Doty on the
first-degree charge, and so far as he
knows the acquittal of Herbert Doty will
make no difference in regard to their
cases,
Rev. Dudley Rhodes, who was an in
terested auditor 'during the, entire trial,
highly complimented Judge Caldwell
upon the f atr and legal charge which he
made to the jury.
Doty Out On Itoiul.
Late Tuesday afternoon Herbert Doty
was released on $1,000 bond for an "as
sault to kill" indictment still pending
against him.
Doty went straight home from the
Court House. He hpd been in jail over
six mdhths.
OUT OX IJOXI).
Late Friday evening, Teeters, Perry,
and Vincent ' Doty were released on
$2,000 bonds. The charge was changed
from first to second degree murder.
Crisis Reached
of Union
Kesley Schoepf Treats Them the Same as He Does
the Public All That the Employees Will Get, Is
What They Take Away From Him. And the
Only Way to Do It Is to Stand Pat.
The crisis in the wage dispute between the Cincinnati
Traction Company and its men, was reached Wednesday
the day on which the dispute was to be submitted to arbitra
tion, according to an agreement made three years ago.
But neither side made a move.
Carmen have intimated that they will wait until June 30,
when their contract expires. - '
' It is pointed out, however, that with the., contract there
wiH.alEO .exphrB-.the- &tViiiohts'eximtiicJv:afipiiC4'v''
the contract. , . " . i
There' is nothing in the contract to prevent the company
and men reaching an agreement without arbitration before
June 3C.
Union men stated, however, that they did not expect to
hold any more conferences with the Traction Company. .They
declined to discuss the arbitration clause of the contract.
The Traction Company also declined to make a statement,
but intimated it may have something to say later.
NEW WORKING CONTRACTS.
Which Teamsters Will Demand Call
For $2 ii Week Increase.
Members of Teamsters' Union last
night decided to have printed copies of
proposed working agreements to present
to the Team Owners' Association. In
the proposed contracts the men will re
quest an average increase in wages of $2
a week, union officials said. The con
tract the men now a're working under
expires July 20.
The union also decided to pay strike
benefits of $8 a week to striking omni
bus drivers and meat drivers.
A man who registered as Everett Mc
Donald, 310 Stone street, omnibus driver,
was arrested pt Ninth and Vine street
by '.Police Lieutenant Scebohm Wednes
day, after, it was charged, he had men
aced several drivers of the Cincinnati
Railroad Omnibus Company. McDonald
is charged with having created a disturb
I'liUMUERS' UXION ELECTS.
Plumbers' Union, Local No. S9, last
Thursday night elected the following of
ficers : President, Frank Tweedie ; vice
president, William Tjennison; recording
secretary, Geo. Perwinkle; financial sec
retary, Samuel Beresford ; treasurer,
Walter Stuhlfauth; corresponding secre
tary and business agent, Patrick Hor
gan ; executive board, Daniel Dardis,
Henry Swirtz, Edward O'Connor;
finance committee, Robert Lorimer and
Chas. Koppman ; inside sentry, George
Weghorst. Thomas Anderson, who had
been business agent for the union the
last seven years, refused to again be a
candidate.
PLUMBERS RAISE WAGES.
Fair Haven, N. J. Plumbers have se
cured the fortv-four hour work week
and raised wages from $4 to $4.40 per
day.
In Demands
Carmen
1'ARK WORKMEN IjAID OFF.
Lack of Funds Will Stop All Ini
provciiicnts For Summer.
The Board of Park Commissioners
yesterday laid off the greater number of
its employes, including foremen, cement
workers , and laborers. Improvement
work for the summer practically will be
halted owing to the lack of funds and
the uncertainty attached to the probable
decision of the Supreme Court in ref
erence to the park bond issue.
Installation of a suitable fire alarm
system for the protection of Mt. Airy
Forest was authorized.
Permission was granted the Camp
WashingtonBusiness Men's Club to use
Taft Field, and adjoining pIagrounds
for its first safe and sane Fourth of July
celebration. -
The board declined a request signed by
Daniel Bauer, Councilman from the Fif
teenth Ward, and several boys living in
the neighborhood of McKinley Park,
asking permission to play baseball in the
park on Sunday mornings.
PRESSMEN REPORT PROGRESS.
Pressnien's rlome, Tenn.-j-The twenty
seventh convention of the International
Printing Pressmen and Assistants' un
ion will convene next Monday at Print
ing Pressmen and Assistants' Union
Home.
In his report, just made public, Presi
dent Berry sa) s :
"The international union has pro
gressed during the past biennial period
in a manner favorable by comparison
with any other international trade union
in America or in the world. In this
progress we have been confronted with
our usual degree of difficulties, but it is
good to be able to advise this conven
tion that those difficulties have in the
end been adjusted to the honor and
credit of our movement and the organi
zation that sponsors it."
The Bruckmann Brewing Co.
Placed On the 'We Don't
ing Trades Council. All
Central Labor Council to
Bruckmann Brewery Erected
and After Promising the Pipe Work to Union Fitters,
Had It Done By Their Own Employees. Trouble
With the Gambrinus Stock Company as Well. Coun
cil Will Stand With Hod Carriers in Their Present Fight
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council w?s called to order last
Thursday night with President Joseph
Cullen in the chair. The minutes of the
previous meeting. wera,read and adopted.
Numerous communications were read
and referred to various committees. in
't -RifporY from" (nYvBoarcr"of Business
Agents stated thatThe Bruckmann Brew
ing Cottlpany.Jia been absolutely unfair
to union laljdr- 'j)hd have been placed
upon the "vVe Do Not Patronize" list,
which was concurred in by the Council
and all locals, affiliated were duly noti
fied and the matter wifl be presented to
next meeting of the Central Labor
Council for simitar action.
It was brought out, in the discussion
that the brewery erected a 20-ton ice
machine and the officers of the brewery
had promised that the work would be
done by union steam-fitters, but instead
of which it was put up by scabs, who
were cmplojed in other capacities in the
brewery.
If every craft of union labor had to
deal direct with these breweries as the
Building Trades do, there would not be
enough bartenders and saloonkeepers in
town to keep the labor movement on
friendly terms with the wets.
Eery saloonkeener who handles
Bruckmann's beer will naturally loose the
patronage of union labor, to say noth
BUILDING SUB-PERMITS
School A 2-story and basement brick
addition to be built to school building
at Portsmouth, O. Owner, the Holy
Redeemer Church ; architect, J. F. Sheb
lessy, 519 Main street, Cincinnati, O.
Contract awarded to Geo. Baker, of Cin
cinnati, O.
Factory Addition to the plant of the
Lunkenheimer Co., on Beekman street.
Bert L. Baldwin & Co., architects, Perin
Building, Cincinnati, O., awarded con
tract for rgofing to the H. W. Johns
Manville Co., and for galvanized iron
work to Witt & Brown.
Public Building A Y. M. C. A. Build
ing, to be erected on Canal and Elm
streets, to cost about $500,000. Elzner
& Anderson, architects, Ingalls Building,
Cincinnati, O., have awarded general
contract, except for power plant, to the
King Lumber Co., of Charlottesville, Va.
Residence A 2-story frame residence,
to be built at Wyoming, O. Owner, John
Dietz; architect, Max Kati, 2241 Strat
ford avenue, Cincinnati, O. Contracts
awarded as follows : Brick work, Brock
man & Webb; foundation, Ben Niehaus;
carpentry, Henry Wessel; roofing,
Fahnle & Dietrich.
MINE RULES ADOPTED.
Coshocton, Ohio, June 22. Having
spent Wednesday wrangling over rules,
Coshocton County miners and operators
here today turned to the consideration
of rules on which there was little dis
pute. Of 'these IS were adopted from
the old scale without change, and refer
red to duties of miners and operators
and mining conditions. The conference
'then recessed until June 2S.
Patronize. List' By the Build
Affiliated Locals and the
be Notified.
'a Twenty-Ton Ice Machine,
ing of their own wagons, who make a
practice of peddling beer to workmen
emplojed on the construction of build
ings. Business Agent Hock reported that
the Gambrinus Stock Company was
4 i.VJ uiiLiur lu succl racmiorKcrs nnaL ja i
thatfT'5t,'"'as impossible for him -to -
Straighten out the job. He said he had -made
repeated efforts and that Mr. r
Boss did. not or pretended not to un- '
derstand what he wanted.
All trades reported business good.
In relation to the argument between
the hod-carriers and the common labor
ers, it was decided to stand behind the
hod-carrier in his contention.
S. Kaufman of the Garment Workers'-
Union,- was granted the privilege
of the floor. He explained the condi
tion of the sixty-fie thousand garment
workers who are locked out in New
'York, and stated that the local union
will give a picnic at Coney Island an
July 23d, and he asks the support of
the Building Trades Council in this
matter.
Upon motion, the picnic was recom
mended to all locals affiliated to pur
chase tickets, and thereby help the cause.
There being no further business be
fore the meeting, the Council adjourned
until next Thursday night.
FEDEHAIi UXIOXS URGED.
Washington A. F. of "L. Secretary
Frank Morrison has issued a circular to
all organizers to take advantage to the
fullest extent of the increasing senti
ment for unionism among unorganized.
"In order that there shall be oppor
tunity," he sajs, "for persons employed
at unorganized crafts and callings to take
care of their interests pending the time
when the can join the separate union
of their trade, the laws of the American
Federation of Labor iiiake provision for
the formation of a federal labor union,
or union of mixed crafts and callings,
in which those who are not members of
a union already in existence or eligible
to membership in a trade union can
hold membership. When there is a suf
ficient number of members of any par.
ticular craft or calling in a federal labor
union the officers are required to form
a trade union and affiliate it to its na
tional or international body."
LOCOMOTIVE FIREMEX MEET.
Denver, Col. The triennial convention
of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Fire
men and Enginen;en convened in this
city recently. President Carter stated
that the organization is in almost flour
ishing condition and that its finances now
reach the high water mark, $4,085,938,07.
HIGHER WAGES IX XEWPORT.
Newport, R. Ii The Plumbers' Union
has ra'sed wages from $4 to $4.50 a day,
and upholsterers have increased their
rates from $3.50 to $4.
i
