r
REASON AND FREE INQUIRY
arc the only effectual 1 agents
azainst error. . . They ore the
This It Numbtr 270
MACE
natural enemies of error and of error only. It is error alone that needs the support of gov
ernment. Truth can stand by itself. Subject opinion to coercion, whom would you make
your inquisitors? Fallible men; men coverned by bad passions; by private as well as'public
reasons. Thomas Jtftnon, in "iVcfcs en Firpnu."
iMl4, ttl
6B
WW Bwiesm Meedl TDniSn w Oeum to MtiMevewk?
.MB
Richmond P. Hobson, ex-Congressman from Alabama, Asks Him to Investigate thi aud Exposed In The Menace of May
27 Who Helped the Editor of the "Catholic News Bulletin" to Government Envc les Bearing the ox-Congressman s
Frank? What Postal Employe, by Negligence or Conspiracy, Permitted Their Illegal Use?
ii
I UK readers will remember that in Tme MrACK of May z.
we showed how Roman C atholic political literature, calcu
lated to influence Ohio politic. had been mailed without
the payment of postage in Washington. P. C., and trans
mitted' to Cincinnati 1.1 a govcrnnivnt rnvrloj bearing the
frankinr aicnature of former tm::reman. R. 1. H"hoii. '
Thi abuse of what was formerly Mr. Hobum's legal privi-
I ...iMr.li. r.ico.1 111 miction as to whether it Wll tlolie Willi III!
knowledge and consent, and we rut the question anl alternative a fol
lows; M. Wa it done with Mr. Hobson' knowledge aul consent : '.'nd. Was
it done ith the connivance of someone having access to hi supplies?
3rd. Waa it a cae of enveloe stealing similar to that of tho St. Iniis
cnvclipe thieve who last winter stole thousand of Mfnai r. envelopes and
had them hidden away bv a Roman Catholic institution?
We never thought for a moment that Mr. Hobson had anvtlnng to
lo with it On the contrary, we were convince! that uneven Ionian
Catholic had stolen and lined these envelope with the probahle connivance
of other liftman Vttholict ih the implog of ih government. The litter
of Mr. llobson, and Mr. Morgan, his former secretary, printed eltewhcro
ou thi page, confirm that coneluion.
We would gladly print theae letters as a mere matter of justice to
all concerned; but we print them with the greater satisfaction because
thev point clearlv and directly to condition existing in the postoffice
department which that department has heretofore choen to ignore in
spite of all protests and petition. ...
There are too many Roman Catholics in the postal service for the
p.od of that service; and the sooner some effort is made by that depart
inent to correct the resulting evile. the better it will be for the present
administration. It is now hoped that the oontemptuou indifference with
which our requests for investigation have !oen treated mny cease, and
thiit ex-Congressman Ilobson's similar request may pet the desired re
mits. .....
Mr. Hobson shows a commendable spirit m hi deire to co-operate
w ith The Mksai-k to discover to what extent the pope' Washington lobby
ha practical this glaring fraud. If rwtmaster-Oencral Burleson will
hood the call and do hia part, some of the loyal subject of the papal sov
ereign will aoon be taking to tall timber where they will be les able to
annoy honest people with their peculiar schemes for making America Ro
man Catholic. ......
nt what Mr. Hobson mvs in rrgnrd to the promptness with which
he ws deprived of the right which the editor of a Roman Catholic sheet
use without ever having the right Is it not remarkable how vigilnnt
those eagle-eved employees were to stop the sending of genuine congres
sional matter; and how easy it was for Rome's political propaganda to be
similarly mailed without the shadow or a legal rigiu, ana 10 go mrougn
the mail across several states without a challenge?
DEPARTMENT WAS ONCE VERY VIGILANT?
Might Be So Again With Advantage to the Service-Evidence of Crooked
ness by Roman Catholic Postmasters and Employees Piles Up Without
Apparent Action by the Authorities Their Indifference of
Serious Consequence to Publishers and Postoffice Patrons
BSB3ESB9B8BSB8BaS
SOME INTERESTING CORRESPONDENCE
From ex-Congressman R. P. Hobson
Tuxedo Park, New York, June 7th, 1918.
Editor of The Menace, Aurora, Mo.
Dear Sir: I enclose herewith a copy of a letter I have just written to the postmaster
general, relating to the unlawful use of my name against my knowledge or consent for frank
ing material described in your issue, No. 2C8, of May 27th. May Z suggest that you publish
same and request the co-operation of your readers to find out how far this fraud has ex.
tended, and whether its practice has been general
It is hard for me to think that mere oversight could account for this matter getting
through the postoffice channels in my name; for, when my franking privilege expired the
first of last December, my secretary thinking it extended a few days longer until the sew
congress convened, mailed prohibition speeches under the frank, and these were instantly
stopped by the postoffice department and returned with the notice that my frank had ex
pired. It is almost incredible that my name could have been used in this way at this late
day.
I will advise you as to developments from my request to the postmaster-general for
Investigation and appropriate action. Please let me know if you obtain any further informa
tion at your end. I hope our co-operation may promptly break up this fraudulent practice.
faithfully yours,
(Signed) R. P. Hobson.
fspirary he serve. In fart, pro-Marly sent to frusta and papal
apnl politii i of a kiml to a- ageni mmngnnui nmo; ami mi
ii tt-1 rvi-n thin are familiar reasonable iippnnion i con;iniiii
jlli it. by the fa-t that the same H!lrtit
It i hard to form a mental pie- hare turned J
tore of the wnt.lt who would take rr' f oK"- flrr
tho niMnnurv i.i.h .f a cm-it.-! fr!Pc or nrrr had been
nutit employe, to iiMirt llm tf,n.rrniovel.
in it ut ion of the I'luteil Mt- audi It i llni that Mr. IlmWn he
ili lmre the diUH of lu .ition ! i-oim an interested party, and de
to the lnM of In knowhili' and in tin niine of hu name to be
ahilitv, and then i-on-pirt' with other invetii:atiil by the jtoMi.fliix? de-(tuhj.-iti
of the xi! to il. frnud the piirtiiu-nt. We are quite aure that
mirriiiiH iit of tx.t.t.ii:e. Who ran i ln rfiiiet i ino-t rensonnhle and
imagine the m 1 1 n.- ami titter
depravity of thco fanutiin ho lie
to our Mill rilier and writ' 'Irhlv
AEXBAMA. i
COVBBSMFNT OI T Or rOJUACB, AND TO JS.SD .T" iu oV WASHlil TON 1
AND OTHKB BOMAN CATHOLIC POLITIC AL I.ITLBATtRK BOl WAhHI.NGTO.
D. C. TO TUB MV. BECTOB AT CINCINNATI. OHIO.
We also print a photographic reproduction of the envelop whi li ;
waa miauoed by the papist lobby of Washington. Xotiec the jtmnrk
on that envelope. Does it not look like the month amt nay of tne monin
had been intentionally omitted from it? If so, this fraud Mas aerom
plishcd with the collusion and co-operation of persons within the ttl
service
If thia reasonable suppicion is not well grounded, it i up to someone
to show why, by discovering the guilty party; and we tan think of no
one more vitally interested in an investigation that will reveal the truth
than Mr. Burloson. The Menace has made similar request of Mr. Bur
leson, but without satisfsctory results.
I T . A- -1, .
wnv. invesiiCTiion mn m
Similar Cam of Orookedneu
In The Mesack f April 8 we
printed the letter we had mailed to
the pottmaster-gcneral in which we
aked him to investigate six specific
cases of what seemed to be delib
erately illegal discrimination against
this paper on the part of Koman
Catholic postmasters and employees.
The only reply we haTe had to
that request is a letter from Mr.
FnrWon transmitting counter
charges made by the postmaster at
New Haven, Conn. So far as we
are able to discover, nothing has
been done concerning the other five
rases submitted at the same time.
We immediatclv wrote Mr. Burle
son asking if thee offerings of the
New Haven postmaster were to close
the case, again asking that a post
office inspector, or some representa
tive of the department, be sent here
to examine the evidence we had to
offer in those cases and many' more.
To this we have reoeived no reply.
It is now more than two months
since the six cases were bronght to
Mr. Burleaon's attention. In the
meantime we have received com
plaint after complaint from sut
. ecribers whose paper hare failed to
reach Lb cm ana who wish to know
many instances, that puch subscrib
ers have been removed from our
mailing lists upon the absolutely j
false advice of some postmaster or '
assistant who declares that the sub- j
scriber had refused the paper, had ,
removed without leaving another f
address, or some similsr misrepre
sentation calculated to injure this
paper and defraud its subscriber: of ,
the paper they had paid for.
It is thus proved to our satisfae-1
tion that the posUl service f this
country is infested with a horde of .
Roman Catholics and near papists ,
who care no more for duty or the '
oath of ofhYe than the worst pirate
that ever scuttled a ship. Those (
tools of the papal system evidently '
regard public office as a papal cn-i
gine which they may use with im
munity to injure persons and pub
lishers not approved by pope and
priests.
We have pointed these things
out to Mr. Burleson in language as
gentle and respectful as we could
command, asking only that some
representative of the department
call at this office, examine the false
statements of postmasters, compare
them with the letters of complain
ing subscribers, and make whatever
jernto falsehoods to this cilice fur the
' sole purtose of keeping their
Copy of the Letter to the Postmaster General
Tuxedo Park, New York, June 7th, 1916.
Postmaster-General, Washington, D. 0.
Dear Sir: I enclose herewith a page of The Menace showing photograph of a franked
envelope bearing my name mailed at Washington this year.
Your department, of course, knows that I am not a member of congress, and am cot en.
titled to use the frank. The vigilance it displayed when I WAS a member of congress legiti
mately using my frank to send out my own speeches on prohibition, causes me to wonder how
it was possible for this fraud to be committed openly many months after my franking privi
lege had expired.
I hereby request that you have a thorough investigation made to identify the perpetra
tor of thia fraud and the employees of your department who, by gross neglect of duty or by
a conspiracy, have been parties to its perpetration, and that you take such action as may be
called for in the premises, and that you kindly advise me.
Faithfully yours,
(Signed) B. P. Hobson.
From Mr. Hobson's Former Secretary
WilliAm H. Morgan, Attorney and Oounselor-at-Law,
314-15-16-17, Alston Building, Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
Editor The Menace, Aurora, Mo.
Dear Sir: There has recently come to my attention a copy of your paper, The Menace,
dated May 27th, 1916, in which you carry a story under the headlines "Rome's Hidden
Hand In Ohio Political Campaign." There are certain parts of this story that involve the
integrity and fairaindedness of Hon. R. P. Hobson, with whom I was for a number of years
associated as secretary, and I believe that you will be very glad to make proper corrections
in your paper. At the top of the second column you ask these questions:
"Does Congressman Hobson give the editor of the Catholic News Bulletin the use of his
franking privilege; does someone in possession of Mr. Hobson's supply of government envel
opes sell them at a discount to the Romish Bureau of Misinformation ; or were these envelopes
stolen or spirited away?"
I think I can answer these questions for you, and throw additional light on this very
flagrant abuse of the postal laws of the United States government.
In the first place, Captain Hobson is not now a member of congress. His term expired
on March 4th, 1915. The law allows a retiring member of congress six months from the date
of the expiration of bis term the use of his frank in sending out government documents left
on hand; therefore the autograph of R. P. Hobson on any matter passing through the mails
under the franking privilege was as much a nullity as the use of my name or your name, or
the name of anyone else who was not in congress for the 64th congress, that is after the ex.
piration of the six months, or December 1st. I note from the reproduction of the envelope,
bearing Captain Hobson ' frank, THE DATE OF THE POSTMARK IS 1916, THE MONTH
NOT BEINO GIVEN.
As Captain Hobson's former secretary, I am familiar with the envelopes used by him in
handling his correspondence, and the cut used in your paper is a reproduction of a type of
envelope that we used in sending out speeches. Several thousand of these envelopes were on
band when we closed our offices at the expiration of his term, and they were thrown out to
be carted away by the janitor of the building. It is very probable that some one CON.
NECTED WITH THE CAPITOL FORCE AND AT THE SAME TIME INTERESTED IN
THE "CATHOLIC NEWS BULLETIN" picked out a number of these old envelopes and pre
served them for the purpose of defrauding ti e U. S. government of postage.
Yours very truly, , (Signed) W. H. Morgan.
N. B. Comment on what these letters reveal, also a photographic reproduction of the
envelope in question, appears elsewhere on this page.
report he found facte to justify to
the end that such unfair and illegal
practices be stopped.
But, so far aa we are aide to dis
cover, nothing has been done; and
the practice continues to the in
jury of the paper and its readers.
We are therefore pleased to secure
the helpful co-operation of Mr.
Hobson whose standing as a patriot
and public-minded citizen mar
make soma slight imgeoiion on of
ficials who seem afraid to do any
thing displeasing lo Rome.
Incredible Bat a Fact
What a difference there would be
in the postal service if these Roman
Catholic violators of their oath of
office had a postmaster-general of
the Hobson type lo deal with. We
imagine that if thi were under the
supervision of the man who steered
the old Merrimae into the mouth of
Santiago harbor, and eunk.it under
the shell-fire of the Spanish fort,
they would either perform their
duties honestly or get out
No wonder he regards it as al
most incredible that his name
should be so used and abused by the
Roman Catholic lobby at Washing
ton. Men of high ideals, prompted
by patriotic motives can scarcely
conceive of the depths to which the
average Roman Catholic politician
will go in behalf of the foul con-
neighbors from eettini what he-
i lonpi to themf Such contempt ihle
! sniallnes. such dureptrl f"r de-Ji-etny,
and such a treaonahle di
' Mtnii would indeed le hard t
, find oiitide of that monstrous thing
whi Ii calls itclf a church hut whose
: ft hies is well illustrated in the
: alxivc acts of its faithful members.
The imagination needs n micro
i M-ope to gaue the soul that would
incriminate itclf for the price of
a sstap' stamp; but someone ha
done it in t lie service of the ope,
which ninv iiiiike it altogether njlit
and moral in the estimation of the
v ffe niter.
Who Is the Thief?
Mr. Morgan's letter indeed
I throws additional liplit on this abuse
of the xstal laws. His shrewd and
rcasonnble guess flint these pivcrn
' inent envelope were taken by sotne
, one "connected with the Capitol
fonr nnt at the fame time inter
islrit in the titho!ir Xeu Hullf
't tin" points ut thoe papists who
work for the jmJ w!iih lieinjr paid
by I'ihIo Sam. Mr. Morgan's in
terpretation of the mystery shows
how tlHinriging it is to individuals
mid the common welfare to allow
such fanatics ax'css to public build
ingx and government supplies ccti
, s janitor or care takers.
Their extreme readings to do
'anything fur what they imagine is
religion, or which will further the
N)litical ambitions of Rome, and
; their lack of regard for other con
siderations, make them excellent
! servants of the papal system but
totally unfit to le trusted in public
oll'iiv or with public pncrty.
Tiricfly stated, the history of this
fraud, which Mr. Hobson joins
with ns in the desire to have in
vestigated, is as follows: In April
; the R. v. H. F. Rector, of 610? (Vn-
over St.. Cincinnati, O., received
, the envcloe pictured on this page.
Instead of its containing "part of
the i-ongressional ninrd"' it con-
' tained two copies of the Catholic
. .Vei. Bulletin, a Human Catholic
volitienl paper published in Wash
1 ington, P. C and a circular signed
! bv the editor of the llullctin, K. L.
: Scharf.
The Bulletin teemed with
most vicious attacks nin President
Wilson and his administration :
; and the circular urged the support
'of ex-Senator Charles Dick of Ohio
( for re-lci tion to that office on the
showing that when he was a United
States senator he had been friendly
to the political interest of the l!o-
man Catholic church.
The envelope loro no stamp, but
travelled nevertheless from Wash
ington to Cincinnati on the expire!
and obsolete frank of former Con
gressman Hobson. Though ad
dressed to "Rev. Rector. 104 Des
mond St.n it was delivered bv some
slip of the consciousness to the
Rev. It. F. Rector at a similar ntim
ber on another street. Here was i
mivup that resulted in the first ex
posure of the fraud in The Men
ace of Mav il.
Had this precious package of Ro
man Catholic political propaganda
material been delivered at 6104
Desmond St., it would have reached
the Roman Catholic priest who lives
at that address. He is a rector by
title, but the package went to the
Rev. Harry F. Rector who is a
rrotestaut clergyman and who
posaesiaes a proper disposit on to
protest against RVmish rascality
wherever found.
This fact indicate the probabil
ity that this same matter was aimi-
prr. ami Hint flic itcpanmeni
i.wes him the courtesy of compli
ant after permitting what it has
to happen.
Hope Long Deferred
In the meantime The Mcxim
is watchfully waiting for the postal
authorities to take similar action
in regard to offense against thia
paper Tictrated by Knight of
Columbus and other Roman Cath
olics or fropaiit in the govern-
nient employ. The evidence is here
in abundance; and we are hoping
thut the department may act as it
morally and legally should without
subjecting Thf Menace to the ex
ensive necessity of taking action
in the courts.
It is plain to every citizen of the
least intelligence that such fraudu
lent malfeasance should incase; or
the United States postal svstem.
the greatest business in the world,
will become a mere convenience for
Roman Catholic promoters. No
citiren is safe in person or business
if his mail is subject to meddling
by conscienceless eubjects of the
sovereign on the Tiber without "
i heck or redress. The least reflec
tion w ill remind each citizen of the
extent to which he most depend
upon the postal system, and of how
much he i at the mercy of those
who mar meddle with or destroy
his correspondence.
This is the place of all place
where all employees should
be inspired with ideals of
civic righteousness and regard fnt
he rights of every buma being,
t is the place of all place where
the tool of a hostile interest can do
the greatest damage when so in
clined. Like the man who carried
the menage to Garcia, postal em-
ploycea are needed whose loyalty is
beyond temptation and whose al-
eginnce is not livnieil between
their own country and the service
of a foreign monarch.
And that is the kind of service
that the American people must have
at whatever cost. I hev can t af
ford to Ih satisfied with less. To
get it. IT MAY KKN HKt OMR
X Kt ' KSSA RY TO KhECT
THEIR POSTAL SERVAXTS
FROM CARRIERS TO TOST
M A ST E R- E X E R A L ; hut ten
mi;iht a. rrll begin by insisting o,
honcstu in the system as it is. and
hi to voting as to defeat aU tcho
fail in iiMf.v or conspire to perpe
trale mch frauds as ire have do-
$cribed.
Tho time is ripe for a probe into
the postal system from top to bot-,
torn ; and, nnless the managers of
that svstem see fit to clean their !
ow n premises the people may under
take the job with the assistance oil
congress, an assistance tnat can do
relied upon after the coming elec-
tion when the people will have re
tired more papist politicians to pri
vate life and will have elected pa
triots in their places.
But the question i now up to
Mr. Burleson. We shall watch and
wait with growing interest to see
whether he has the courage to do
what duty demands at the risk of
Rome's sovereign displeasure. This
misuse of an ex-congressman's name
to defraud the government may be
a small offense as measured in dol
lars and cents but it is such an af
front a no self-respecting govern
ment can afford to ignore. To do
so after all that ha happened would
be equivalent to participation in
the offense; and we cant heliev
any member of tho present admin
istration to bo guilty of that.
Do mot fail to read tk (mt chapter
of "Tba Black Prophet" cm rolitioal
oa tce Utm of
