THE BARKE DAILY TO
EES
VOL. XX NO. 86.
.BARRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, JUNE 2 J, 1010.
THICK. ONE CEXT.
U. S. TROOPERS
WERE NEARLY
ANNIHILATED
War Department at Washington Gets
Reports Showing That Cavalry Com
' mand Which Met the Mexicans at
Carrizal Has Few Survivors Only
Seven Return
LEAGUE STARTS IN BARRE.
VERDUN
CARNAGE
FEARFUL
MEXICANS RESPONSIBLE
FOR THE ATTACK
United States May Demand That Mex-
ton I. lieiXTrvwr fh Aft and KliniRh thP from the organized baseball club at least
iW J-lOti v uh niv, v,v miv two wepkg prior to th
Opening Game of Vermont Baseball Asso
ciation on July 4.
The official opening; of the Vermont
Baseball association a four-team circuit,
including Burlington, Rutland, Barre and
Montpelier, successor to the Northern
league winch passed away many year
ago, will take place at Barre the after
noon of the fourth of July, whin Mont
pelier plava Harre at the Shrincrs cele
bration at the trotting park. The name
afternoon Burlington will play Hut land
at Rutland, unless a change is made. At
Burlington last evening there was a
meeting of representatives of the differ
ent tea ma to he included in the organ
ization and a set of by-laws was drafted,
LXmdexUikne Vigorous Of
Antonio Broggi and Angelo Bottiggi of
the Italian A. ('., and Montpelier by John
F. Dobbs. Rutland failed to eend a rep
resentative but gave Mr. Bottiggi au
thority to appear for that city.
Each club is to appoint a represent a
tive to eerve ai a league director, who
(hall have full power to act for his club,
The board of directors will meet in Barre
nevt Tuesday evening to organize and to
finish the drafting of the playing sched
ule. The board is to select the umpires
and have full power to settle all dis
putes, their decisions being final. The
exoense necessary to a meetinc of the
directors is to be shared equally by the FAILED TO REGAIN
four clubs.
It was also decided that it will not be
permissible to engage the services of any
man in organized baseball for any game
in the league unless the man was released
V.N. G. LACKS
WAR SUPPLIES
Regiment Will Not Leave
Till the War Department
Furnishes Requirement
SAYS TILLOTSON,
ADJUTANT-GENERAL
fensive, the French Drove
Back the Germans Over Regimental Officers Some-
Ground Which the Latter
Had Won in Most Furious
Attack of the Four Months'
Battle on Friday
what in Doubt Over
Baker's Orders
THIAUMONT WOOD
Offenders, Failing Which Washington
Government May Declare War.
prior to the Mid game.
The directors were also invested with
the power to increase the sire of the cir
cuit to six teams provided St. Albans
and Plattsburg signify a desir to join
with the other four.
All teams shall play on a basis of
50-50 percentage of the gate receipts
every game, the traveling team to pay
W.. ........... ... t U. 1 T.' .......
. , M w A J 11 1 1 , . J 1 I I " ' - ' -
Washington, U. U., June Z4. vvun reports ai nana mat neariy segson ticket pre8Pned at the gate a
the entire American cavalry command of about 100 soldiers may rain check shall be credited in checking
have been annihilated in the fight at Carrizal Wednesday, grave If a Kftme ehrmId be rBnot.ii0(1 by rain
fears were expressed in official circles to-day that not even diplo- the actual expense, carfare, lodging and
, . . , . , , , , I iii,n is Biinii uc uorne eijuKiiy ur u i teams
inane represemauuna nuin mwitu vijr v.au h'"c"" h-11 of the league, This money shall be paid
within seven davs after the
Pt. Albans, June 24. In an interview
with Adjt.Gen. Lee S. Tillotson regard'
ing the etTeet of the orders of Seeretarj
of War Xcwton D. Baker on the activi
ties of the Vermont troops, General Til
lotson said that the principal thing to
be gathered from the new orders to the
National Guard of the nation, to go to
the border immediately upon organiza
tion, is that it has been determined thu
the situation is serious enough to do
More Than SlX German III- mand all of the forces down there. The
v ermont regiment will move as soon a
Visions ParticiDated in the organized and equipped, the date of th
I departure, of course, being indefinite, de
liUCre UOeratlOnS .bast OI pending entirely upon how fast the we
Ideuartment moves an to ppffinir innnlie
ii w. -n 1 rt I . .. B "
me xieuse rrencn oun- to the regiment
i i new orders say nothing regarding
ler-illiaCK raniCUiariV recruiting to war strength. Th prcsi
dents call ordered the National Guam to
mobilize, it being a qualification that the
companies must be at peace strength
(no) and to begin recruiting to wai
strength of 150. Whether or not it w ill
be necessary to recruit to full war
strength was not told in news dispatches,
General lillotson, Judge Advocate b.
dishing and Captain Leroy A
eernlng the attempts of parents to ob
tun their sons discharge from the na
tioiial guard, when there was the firs'
prospect of the regiment, seeing service
J here have been, 1 am sorry to say,
said the commanding officer, "a few ino
lated. cases where parents of members o
the' regiment lacked sufficient patriotism
to face the situation. 1 have ordered re
cmiting officers to reject any married o
other applicants whose families are d
pendent upon them, but these are the
only men for whom I have any sympa
thy. There is no way by which a mem
ber of the guard may obtain his dis
charge unless rejected at the physical ex
animation, and I am happy to say tha
none has asked for it. The morale and
spirit of the Vermont national guard
could not be tietter.
NORWICH CADETS
JOIN STATE TROOPS
Entrained at Northfield, Occupying Four
Passenger Coaches, with One Bag
' gage Car Great Enthusiasm
Shown.
Violent in the Vicinity of
Fleury Last Night
Paris, June 24. The battle of Verdun
within seven davs alter the cance led continued last nurht wit h the. utmost v in-
hjilico. i , r. . ., , Wall lf :i., . ik., .v:i;
... . . , KHiiie ov evcrv ciuo. ii me name learn uence on notn s aes oi ine .Meuse. iaa " wi u , i, uivuw.
Only seven survivors Of the battle had returned T.0 iersningS notifle9 the Visitin teftra an lour before war office announced to-day that the "tion camp at the state reservation at
President Wilson Still awaited a final report J train time that a game is impossible, French regained a large part of th0 rort fcthan Allen, where thty will prob
base at last reports.
from Pershing, and army officers said it might be another day or
two before this arrived. Admiral Winslow, commander of the
Pacific fleet, ha3 also been ordered to make a full report soon on the
Mazatlan incident.
Evidence now available from American sources seems to show
that in both the Mazatlan and Carrizal clashes the Carranza au
thorities precipitated the fighting. When final reports arrive, a
demand will probably be made that the acts be disavowed and the
responsible Mexicans punished. Officials doubt whether the Car
ranza government would consent to a complete disavowal.
the league will not be holden for the ex- ground which they lost northeast of Vcr
pense incurred it the team departs. dun, near Hills .No. 320 and No. 31.
The home team shall be entitled to all Undertaking a vigorous offensive, the
the grandstand receipts. The general ad- French drove the Germans over the
mission throughout the circuit shall be ground whioh they won veterday. The
la cents, teams and automobiles to be battle was particularly violent in tho
admitted by each occupant ravinir the vicinity of Fleurr. The French did nit
regular admission price.
MONTPELIER
Strong Appeal for Enlistments Made By
Dean T. Wilton.
succeed in regaining possession of Thiau
mont wood
More than six German divisions parti
ipated in offensive actions east of th
Meuse yesterday. Late details show that
yesterday's fighting near Verdun equalled
in fury anything jet experienced.
Mr. Wilton called attention to the fact
that the company is far from having the
desired number, 150 men, and urged all
A Strom? anneal tin the vounir men f
Red tape has been cast aside, and authorization .has been given, the city to enHst in to. ri, and to par-
under which the state soldiers will be rushed to reinforce the bor- ?"? to euura?f tlieir on to offer
I the r aerVICA fnr Ihoir innnt,V was n.a.la
i i t n. . , - a i. m.. a p I -
aer guaras at me earnest possmie moment, ine enure army or iiast evening b jp.T. . WiUaauiiuriitK
Ifinnnn rtpn snmrnhnpr! hv Prpsidpnt. Wilsnn's pall was tXaovA A. tl,e 1Hn1 concert given on Main street
rectly at General Funston's disposal.
Congress also took vigorous and far-reaching action. A resolu
tion adopted in the House by a vote of 332 to 2 declares that an
emergency calling for the use of troops in addition to regulars now
exists, and authorizes the president to draft immediately into the
service of the United States all members of the National Guard,
who subscribe to the new oath for that service.
San Antonio, Teit., June 24. The two
troops, G and K, of the Tenth cavalry,
THE GERMAN ADVANCE.
The Attack Was Made Over a Three-Mile
Frost.
London, June 24. Fighting along a
front of over three niiies on the right
bank of the Meuse, the German forces
following the usual artillery bombard-
under Captain Charles T. Boyd, practical
ly were wiped out by the attack of Mex
ican forces under General Gomez at Car
rizal June21, according to indications
gh'en in a fragmentary report received
by General Funston from General Persh
ing last night,
General Pershing's message stated that
seven survivors in all, including those
who arrived Thursday night, have
reached the main column. All were cn
.listed men, but the report did not say
whether there were non-commissioned of
ficers among them.
The report from General Pershing
stated that the stories of the survivors
were confused and do not conform in .ill
details with the report made by the first
arrivals.'Gf neral Pershing reported that
there was a scene of wild confusion when
the Mexicans opened fire and their cava!
counteij for'at least speculatively, is pt
ingly small.
unmarried men to present themselves atl,11Pnt a"'l in the face of violent fire from
the armory for examination. Following
his appeal between forty and fifty rushed
to the armory and about a dozen filed
applications. Lieut. Paine is still in the
city and recruiting is being carried on
under his direction.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mr. and Mrs. A. P. Burnham of Perry
street went to their former home in Cab
ot yesterday for a week's visit with rela
tives.
Louis White has returned to the city
from t. Albans, where he has been pass
ing several daya as the guest of Louis
Legace.
Miss Emily Dodge of Averi'l reet
left the city this noon for Quincy, Mss.,
where she will spend a few weeks visit
ing with relatives and friend.
Mrs. Frank Gove and daughter. Lvdia,
of Eastern avenue have cone to Pots
dam, X. Y., .where Miss Hester M. Cove.
a graduate of Spaulding high school in
the class of '13, is to complete a thiee-
year course at the Crane Normal Insti
tute of Music. The exercises are to be
held June 27.
Tl - T A T. -.. . . . .
rv charged. The stratrcrler. annarentlvi. 1 . ""T "eai estate agency
nt ff i on .aw r.t . ,n M18 Just cioe deal with W Ilia tnstown
Boyd to extricate his men from the jaws
of the trap which was closing on his
command, or fled before the outcome of
the battle could be learned.
According to stories of the survivors
as outlined in General Pershing's report,
a mounted lorce ot Mexicans made a
charge from the flank at the conclusion
of a parley between Captain Boyd and
General Gomez, at the same time that
a machine gun opened tire from the front
as General Gomez reached his iines.
Captain Boyd had ordered hi men to
dismount as the machine gun onened dre
and the combined effect of the Mexican
iharge, the mai-hne gun fire and the
rifle tire from the Mexican garrison of
Carrizal. which had almost surround? 1
the little American force under cover of
the parley sought by General Gomez to
discuss whether Captain Hoyd should 1
allowed to pas through the town, stam
peded the horses. N"o details were made
known to General Pershing as to whether
the Mexican charge was checked
With their mounts gone, taught with
out means of escape, ringed about on
three sides with the fire of an overwhelm
ine force, the fate of the little detacu
nient is believed by officers hera to havqj
been sealed. It is feared that only the
roost stupendous luck, backed by desper
ate valor, could have extricated Captain
Boyd's men from the trap.
Reports from Mexican sources placed
th number of killed, including two ih,
cers, at from 12 to 4't. It i reported
IT were taken captive into hihuahua
City.
Tre accepted percentage of wounded to
fro ki'Jint in modern warfare would
place the wounded at frm 3A to 4 at
th lwet eMiniate. The strength of the
tw-o trvp. H and K. i not known her-,
bit it i eMimsted that they muld -t
exei lirt men allow-in? for tV-se wk
ant on d't ted M-rie. With only tvn
aurmors repr-rV-d a arrsvir at te
parties, selling the home farm of Mr.
and Mrs. Elmer Tracy to Walter Dcso of
Plattsburg, X. Y. The deal involves all
personal property and the firm of about
130 acres. Mr. Tracy has not announced
his plans as yet, but gives por.esiion to
Mr. Deso the first of July.
George If. Hollister of Fargo, X. T., is
passing several days with relatives in
Barre and vicinity. Mr. Hollister was
graduated from Goddard seminary back
in the late '80s and has been renewing
acquaintances with schoolmates of other
years during the commencement week at
Goddard seminary. Mrs. Mittie S. Peck
of Bristol. Conn., who was pi-adusted
rrom the seminary in the cliss of 1S7.
is making a stay of several days in Barre
as the guest of her sister. Mrs. A. W.
Allen of the East Montpelier road.
Meadow Brook golfers will evacuate
their own course on the Brook street ex
tension this afternoon and journey down
to Cherry vale park for the first of a se
ries of matches with the Barre Golf club.
Both tems are reported to be in fine fet
tle for the match and a closely contested
tournament is anticipated. Within a few
week the Barre Gnf club will play the
first of its series with the Montpelier
Kviinwj ciuo ana tncn comes the three-
cornered match with Barre, Montpelier
and the Greensboro rluh as the princi
pals. Sunny skies to-dy augur well for two
baseball games that are to have th'ir
lole in the two extremities of the itv
this afternoon. With the rteptin of a
midweek psme. neither the I. A. C. tinr
the B. A. C. has been able to stare a
contest ainee the Saturday before Memo
rial day. Fain has sprinklH tb bm-
ground schedules full of hole, but hr.th
managements feel that r!ief i in t--cht
Mrs. Henry Cushion was arrested
this morning on complaint of Grand Jur
or Jhenault, the warrant eharsni''
breach of peace on Mrs. Lillian Allen.
Mrs. Cushion formerly occupied a tene
ment owned by Mrs. Allen and was or
dered out, so it is said. When the wom
en met on the street, Mrs. Cushion is ul
leged to have started an offensive drhe
against the other woman.
Copies of the second annual directory
issued by the Vermont Sheriff associa
tion of which Frank H. Tracy of Mont
pelier is president, are being distributed
about the state. The directory contains
the names of all sheriffs, deputy sheriffs,
constables, police oflicers and town clerk
in every town and city in the state, tHe
list being arranged by counties. The di
rectory is of much value to attorneys
and others connected with court wont
and the names of practically all the at
torneys in the state are included in the
directory.
Judge Fred M. Butler, who has been
hearing chancery cases at the court house
since Tuesday, left this morning for his
home in Rutland. He will probably re
turn next week.
The Misses Xancy Puffer, Bernita
Roberts, Hilda Sheridan, Sarah Lawrence,
Kthel Brush and Laura Burkank left this
forenoon in automobiles for Post MilU.
where they will attend the marriage at 3
o'clock this afternoon of Miss Kenee
Raymond of that town to Robert Val-,
bridge of Teterboro, X. II. Miss Rav-J
mond has been a teacher in the publi?
schools in Montpelier for the past four
years. They will reside in Peterlioro.
Dr. G. . (owan and wife of ha:-t
Slate street left yetei.iy litcrnoon for
Groton. where they will f.pend several
days with relatives.
Mrs. George Xichols left this forenoon
for Wind.ior for a brief vii-it with rela
tives. Since Thursday Harold Howes, aged
IB, and Clifton Rivett, aged 14, have been
away from home and efforts are now be
ing mr.de to locate the boys. They have
been traced to Xorthfield, where thev
sH-nf the niht with the grandfather of
the Howes boy, and it is suspected that
they continued their itinerary to Fra
mingham, Mass., with the intention of
trying to enlist with the Massachusetts
troops. The Howe boy is large for his
age. He has run away from home sev
eral times previously and is now on pro
bation. F.ach time he takes a roungcr
boy with him, and it it thought that he
my he influenced the Rivett boy to
leave horn. Howe is the son of Mr. and
.Mrs. I'hil rtow-e. and tne mvett young
ster is th son of Mrs. Mary Kivtt.
French guns, carried French first line
trenches between hills 321 and 320 and
also the Thiaumont fort.
Fierce fighting marked the advance
toward Verdun, Paris declares in admit
ting the loss of the trenches and the
Thiaumont work. . Further along the
fighting line the Germans reached Fleury,
about 34 miles northeast of erdun, but
Paris says they were repulsed there by
a violent counter-attack. Paris states
the attacks on the woods of Vaux, Chap
itre, Fumin and Chenois and on the Dani
loup battery were broken and repulsed.
South of the Damloup battery, in the
sector of Moulainville, and on the left
bank of the Meuse in the region of hill
304 and Le Mort Homme, the French po
sitions are being heavily bombarded bv
the German guns.
TALK OF THE TOWN
in
W esley Cannirter of Brookt'eM w
the city last evening to ris.t Ih L ;.
prague, who extracted a piece of ste.
front his right eye. The ewl itew- from
t a parrel hoop Hi tse was driving rT
a barrel Testerdsy forenon. h ; C
.a i-c:i, the number of te at- atrett b-J j ajd.
v rn"irfiiwi,rfn .Mountain stel on 1HX nil tee pupil ot tf 8 eve
Athletic of Burlington at the Ayersjand probably will riot iium te of
treet park aad the ltlan ard St.Aljthe eve, if tio me,t.n set in. it w
Una iH ervfrve to crips in the Brrl:a Wired m a way that it Iti to I
lone M. Jackson of Burlington is
visiting her grandparents, Mr. and Mrs.
B. B. Jackson.
James S. Speare and Olin Edwards of
St. Johiinburv were among the visitors m
the city yesterday.
Andrew Olsen of Washington street
left the city this morning on a business
trip to Montreal, P. Q.
Frank 1-eclair went this morning to
Burlington to visit friends in the Ver
mont National Guard, who are encamped
at Lolchester.
John A. Cross of Xorthfield was in the
city yesterday to attend a meeting of the
directors of the Barre Granite "vlanufic
turers' association.
James Donahue, who gave his residence
as Pittsfield. Mass., pleaded guilty to a
subsequent offene when arraigned before
MagUtritc H. W. Scott in city court this,
morning and was sentenced to pay $15
and costs and to serve 30 days in the
county jail.
Mr. and Mr. Frank Freeborn, who
have been passing several days in the
city h the guests of Mr. and Mrs. George
1 Rates of th-anfie street, returned by
automobile to-dy to their home in Bos
ton. They were accompanied by Mrs.
Bates, who will visit in Boston and vi
cinity for a time.
An improvied trailer, Imded with
blink wood and attached to A. Tomasi's
touring car. came to grief at the corner
of Prospect and North Main streets Fri
day afternoon. When the trailer slewed
violently agiinst the curb near the fed
eral building. Mr. Tomais wood was de
posited forthwith in the highway. No
damage was done to th- car. which the
driver retoied to control with conspicu
ous promptne.
Among the visitors in the city yester
day and to day were the following peo
ple: Dr. Charles Fairbanks and Mrs.
Henry Fairbanks of St. .Tohnfbury. John
A. (Yo of Xorthfield. Contractor James
K. t ashman sn t R. M. Bngp of Bur!, rig-
ably remain while the First inlnntry is
in camp. Maj. . S. Watson ot Gen. til
lotson's staff has been in camp since
Monday, and all the officers left to-day
who did not yesterday afternoon.
first Lieutenant J. C. Waterman, in
spector for the state, has been delegate!
mustering officer to niuter tho Vermont
troops into the service of the nation. If
the Vermont troops are mustered into
the servica as militia it is understood
they will have to go through anotlu-r
medical examination as to their physical
condition at a matter, of record to the
government. It is thought this will not
mean the rejection of any men except
for some serious disability.
In view of the many questions nbout
the streets as to what officers would go
to the front and those that have duties
which would hold them at home, it may
be said that under the presidout's call.
the officers of the staff corps and depart
ments are not to lie taken inio the Unit
ed States service except for such time
as their services may be required in con
nection with the administration of the
mobilization camp. Later, or when brig
ades and divisions are organized, thesu
officers may be called to fill the nece
sary positions of the higher organua
tions. Thus in a tentative arrangement
of states such as Vermont, New Hamp
shire and Maine together to form a di
vision, each state having one regiment, a
brigadier-general and his staff to com
mand the division would be appointed by
the president who can appoint either
from the officers of these states or from
the army. The adjutant-general himself
is the only one who cannot enter the reg
ular service. The only way in which he
might do this would be to resign from
the service of the state and then enter
the federal service. This he could not do
at a time when he is busy with the re
sponsibility of looking after the many
interests of his department.
The duty of the state regarding the
supplying of the regiment lasts as long
as the troops are in camp. When the
troops break camp the responsibility
rests with the federal government
Xorthfield, June 24. The Norwich ca
dets entrained at 11:15 this forenoon and
pulled out of the station to the music of
the Xorthfield Cornet band for the state
camp ground, where they will join the
ermont .National Guard. The osdeta,
bout 170 in number with the additions
from outside towns, were addressed by
ex -Congress man Plumley and Capt. J. S.
Moseley, and the band played and the
Grand Army veterans added their en
couragement. The men went aboard their
special train consisting of four passenger
coaches and baggage car.
FORMER BARRE WOMAN.
Mrs. Carrie R. Bassett, Widow of George
W. Bassett, Died at Pleasantville. N. J.
A telegram received by Mrs. F. I).
Beck ley of thia city brought tidings of
the sudden death of Mrs. Carrie R. Bas
sett at her home in Pleasantville, X. J ,
Friday morning. Relatives of the, de
ceased were somewhat surprised by the
sad news as a letter received less than
week ago brought news to the effect
that Mrs. Basnet t was feeling unusual
ly well. She had been in failing health
lor several years.
Carrie Rachel Bassett was born in
Monkton, Kent county, England, May 16,
lb4J, the daughter of George and tlua-
beth Water) Tavlor. At the age of
eight, she set sail for America with her
larents on a sailing vessel, making t'ie
ourncy in a little over six weeks. The
family settled in Hammonton, X. J.
It was at Camden, X. J., on May 20,
863, that Mrs. Bassett was united in
marriage to George W. Bassett. They
mmediately came to ermont and set
tled on Bassett farm on upper Pros
pect street. Here' thev lived for 48 con
secutive years.
Mr. Bassett died May 23, 1908. and
soon after Mrs. Bassett went to Califor
nia, where she resided until last sum
mer, when she made a visit East. From
Barre she went to Pleasantville, where
lie resided at the time of her death.
She - leaves as survivors the fol
lowing children, Henry S. and Doan
Bassett and Flora L. Beckicy
f this' city, W infield S.. Bassett of Brat-
tleboro, L. Etta Blake of Burnett, Cal.,
and Milo E. Bassett of ricasantville. Be
sides these near relatives, there are Ii
grandchildren, three brothers and two
sister, all residing in this country.
Mrs. Bassett was a devoted wife and
mother, as well as a kind and helpful
neighbor and friend, and her demise will
be mourned by a large acquaintance us
well as by the surviving family. A hard
worker in early years, she earned the
rest and comfort which was hers in her
latter days. .
She was an attendant at the Congre
gational church and also a member of the
Ladies of the G. A. R. The remains will
arrive in Harre Sunday morning and the
funeral will be held from the home of
Mrs. Fred Beckley, tt Park street, Mon
day afternoon at 2 o'clock. Burial will
be in Elmwood cemetery beside the re
mains of her late husband.
A$10,0"1GIFT
WIPES n'JT DEBT
Again Ira ( ,'alef Comes to
the Ai J Goddard
Seminary
AND PUTS BALANCE
IN CURRENT FUND
Announcement of Gift Was
Made at Commence
- ment Dinner
MARY ELLEN COLE.
GOV. GATES REVIEWS
VERMONT TROOPS
Regimental Review Was Held Yesterday
Afternoon, and the Men Present
ed a Fine Appearance.
Fort Ethan Allen, .June 24. A regi
mental review, which was held at 2
o clock yesterday anernoon in nonor oi
Governor Charles V. Gates, was the prin
cipal feature of the second day at the
mobilization camp of the , ermont -Na
tional Guard. Governor 'f Jates, accompa
nied by his secretary, Major Benjamin
Gates, and Major George E. Carpenter,
chief of ordnance, was on his way home
from Rutland and stopped to "see the
boys," as he expressed it, and make sure
that the state was providing tor their
welfare in every possible way. Col. Ira
L. Reeves, who arrived early yesterday
morning to take command of the regi
ment, ordered the review to be held in
honor of the governor and afterwards
conducted the party of visitors on an in
spection tour of the ramp. Governor
Gates expressed himself as well pleased
w ith affairs at the ramp and compliment
ed Col. Reeve ujion the fine appearance
of the regiment and the excellence of the
review, which was indeed r'-markable for
the second day in camp.
While preparations are being made for
an indefinite stay at the tnohiliration
camp.' it i probable that the Vermont,
troops will leave for the border as soon
as t olonel Reeves considers the regiment
to lie in an efficient condition. Orders to
that effect are said to have twen received
Died at Her Home on Seminary Street
Friday Afternoon.
Mrs. Mary (Rich) Cole passed, away
at her home, 88 Seminary street, Friday
afternoon at 3:15 o clock, the end fol
lowing an illness of seven weeks. Mrs.
Cole is survived by three daughters. Mrs.
Icy Spence of Barre, Mrs. A. E. Cia-v-ford-of
Chattanooga, Tenn., and Mrs.
George A. Kelly of Barre; two sons, Wil
liam Cole and Arthur. Cole, of Barre; a
sister, Mrs. Lucy Blackler of Milford,
Mass.; and two brothers, Richard Rich
!of Gunnislake, Devonshire, Eng., and Ar
thur Rich of Milford, Mass.
The deceased was born in Rose Mellon.
.laricli txi 1 iivnulliun V.iitr Atareh 4.
lam ct..' ...... . ; lii-.i .,,,!this
if?,!', ilir CttllltT .Tlliri HA 4,1 .'. .HIV j
resided for a time in Rhode Island, re- j
moving to Barre 30 years ago. Mr. Cole's i
death occurred in 1011. Mrs. Cole t
a member of the Church of the Good
Shepherd. She was a woman of fine qual
ities, a; good neighbor and one w ho.
passinc has brnucht sorrow to a wile
circle of friends.
The funeral will be
nem at ine no'ie i , ,
. , Ln" if
Through an announcement made at tha
annual commencement dinner yesterday.
became known that someone had
donated $10,000 to Goddard seminary, an
amount which cancela notes held against
the school to the extent of $7,510 and
eaves a balance for the current fund -of
approximately $2,400, according to the
provisions of the gift. The announce
ment came in the form of a very brief
etter to Treasurer H. K. Averill of thu
school, who read the communication at
the after-dinner exercises. The letter
said:
To H. E. Averill, Treasurer of Goddard
Seminary, Barre, Vt.
Dear Sir:
"Enclosed please find check. I wish
you to pay all notes your school owes
and place the balance to the credit of
current funds of the school."
The letter contained a personal check
for $10,000, but the announcement of the
name of the donor was withheld until
to-day. The letter itself was unsigned,,
but the check bore Ira C. Calefs name.
Fresh evidence of Mr. Calefs. largess
solves a pressing problem that has con
fronted the school trustees for some time,
that of maintaining the institution with
out increasing the cost to the Btudent.
There will be no increase in boarding
rates now.
Just to what extent Goddard has been
the beneficiary of Mr. Calefs large heart-
edness would be hard to determine. Back
in the early 'SO's, an indebtedness accu
mulating from current expenses was
largely discharged by gifts from Mr. Ca
lef and the incentive he furnished ta
workers in behalf of the school. He has 1
been a large contributor to the perma- '
nent fund and for 34 years he has been j
chairman of the committee to invest the '
endowment fund, a fund which now
amounts to $130,(508.39. Xot a dollar has
been lost through poor investment in
that period, and not a dollar of interest
has lapsed. Mr. Calefs presence as one t
of the directors of the fund's investment,
has doubtless encouraged many others to
contribute to the endowment.
Whenever there has been a call for
assistance to the seminary, Mr. Calef,
seemingly, has acted on the theory that
he gives twice who gives quickly. He '
contributed liberally to the erection of'
the Thompson Memorial and to the new :
alumni hall. A permanent fund of $5,000 i
was established by him, the income to '
be used for the education of students
from the town of Washington.
The Alumni.
Prin. Holilster presided at the after
dinner exercise, and the speakers were:
Judge C. H. Darling, president of tha
board of trustees, Treas. H. E." Averill,
Mrs. Cora Richardson Brown, "70, of ,
Schenectady, X. Y., Dr. J. W. Jackson,
'8ti, of Burre. Mrs. Mittie Skinner Peck,
'87, of Brifctol, Conn., George If. Hollister,
"87, of Fargo, X. D., Mrs. Charlotte M.
Frenier, 'Ot, of Barre. Weston Cate. 13,
vice-president of the alumni association,
welcomed the 1916 class, and the re
sponse was made by Kenneth J. Tillotson
of Proctor, the 'class president. Re
sponses for the colleges were made by
Edward Loudon, '."). of Dartmouth, Paul
Pitkin. '15. of Middlehury, and Lyman
Whit comb, '15, of Tufts. '
According to the report of the Xew
England examining board, the members
of the 1915 class had a clean slate in
I college. There were nine w ho matricu
lated, and all passed their examinations '
month. Goddard is placed on the '
approved list for another three years.
Announcements were made of the fol
lowing awards: Foster prize scholarship. ,
to Harold O. Clark of East Montpelier ,
for attaining a mark pf more than 05 per
cent, in his senior year;. Laura Olds Tut
tle scholarship, to Kenneth J. Tillotson,
greatest improvement along general lines.
im-ome from ff."0 to tie expended
for
Monday alternoon at s o clock. .., K enjoyable function was the recep
Good Shepherd, ofliciating. Interment
will be made tn Hope cemetery.
OLD BURLINGTON RESIDENT.
!ra cut by a n-4i't,
by the eommandinc officer of the rec-i-
ton. M. ". Flanders of Tunbrid.-e. H. A.jnient. but this statement rouli not be
M. Intosh of Burl n-ton. Mr. an 1 Mr D. ; confirmed yesterday. It will take at least
. HeathheM ot rWt.in. tie tc" K. May, week's t:me to supply all the recruits
and A. N. Isrk of MarSfM, IV. and ' with equipment and to give thm some
Mr. H. N. I'st'ee of Mn. h-tr. V H-,!i1e of nvlitury life nm with the larg
R. B. H ooker and '. C. IW k of St. .!..! n- amount of hard work w hieh i being done,
bury. D. I.. M--len of UVterir. R. I.. ' H f ore leaving for a nm ttun. the
Thorns R'sHif! of C'li'ncv. M. Chari' troop till b utetd eto th fnWl
Tot,!! c-f Mi forl. -V M Kohrt P.
rr tl ef Ho t n . (". If. Hrn of Ro,k
?.. rt. Mi.. F. P- t ex of A"Hny. M-
MnnJT!te tiv of Mr. ite. X . V..
l 8. W ;;. ' P-ml-am. I. V . G. P.
John J. Kennedy Was Born in Ireland 79
Years Ago.
Burlington, .tune 24. John .?. Kennedy.
a resident ot tne city Tr ine pssi no
ver and a commiini-ent of St. Mary's
ratliedtal. during the same period, died
unexpectedly yesterday afternoon from a
combination of illm ses, due to old age.
He wss born in Limerick rounty. Ire
land, and was 70 rears old. At 14 year
of ace be .-sme to Burlington and bad
lived here sin.-e that time. IV ih took
pli-e at the home of his daughter, Mr.
William Ipre of 1 Reach street.
Mr. Kennedy lived in the south part of j low rfi
tion given at the home of Dr. and Mr.
(. K. Hollister. 34 Merchant street, Fri
day afternoon at 4:30 o'clock. In thu
receiving line were: Miss Jenkins, Mis
Morse. Miss Bridges and Mr. Barker of;
the faculty. Dainty refreshments wer
served.
The Closing Reception.
Alumni, students and friend to th
number of 240 attended the farewell re
c"pt ion and commencement ball given bv
the faculty and senior class at (ioddarvt
hall last evening. It was the largest
gathering that ha a'semMed at this an
nual affair in many years, and the affair
wa carried out very sunessfully from
the beginning of the reception to th
farewell waltx.
The reception befisn about R SO,
when Carr-'ll or. lietra bTn with a
and Dr. O. K. H.d!itT and
the ritv durine mt of hi rei'lnce in
town la l1 r ma tried Mis Mary
ponf'i. who died 14 year ago. Thej
urv iv ;ng ch:Hrn are two -,n. Cornel in i
F. Kenne.lv of New York and .torh .1. ;
tr. Hollister. tosthr with M;-s ATie
SafTord. the preoeptre of th - lio,. lr.
Parker, a t-wcher t the eminry. Ken
neth Tilitson. pres'dert of th nio
rl. and Mi F!'altH Hoar ftooel ,q
K'nrieir of Pare: and thre daughter, the receiving l:te. meeting the a!umt
rvH hy lj-'it. .-. t . Htfrmn, I . S.
A. tnpeTTor-irtru1or "f the md-.t.a.
ard th men will und-rg' a r. I ant
! Mr.
athrir G!"n aid Mr. Mpree r,d fnei present . ho wr u-r rd in
eU psv r rrf- enecd
of Prl-rctn. and M' Hen Kr.r,eiy .v roe-n'r of t!,e junior
of New- . ork. A twin l'i t!'. I'stri- l
tr.rr Kir, phve riarntnat H. K'tinedy. a brother. !rn",.. ml
I el, .Tie d piid tTdav ti .i-,tf. M-s, .fame Vj s. all if Bur
Ltcbtll anl L. L Ini- of V vodjt-yk. catj rurmrf ln-h t,at Ua ait UrJuc, alw survna,
r!a.
ift the srrar-4
ir-sfrh t ? wa f , l owed w t a r ,--rl-
jrfsti of f?-,r. rrniauT,s
ULtJ 12 oVtc-.k. I'm c-i.-ts u ujd
V
