mi w
AMERICANS ON BOARD TORPEDOED DUTCH LINER
WEATHER Fair lo-nlghti Friday claar and warmtr.
J JSTO-J
EDITION
) "Circulation Dooks Open to All."
" Circulation Books Open to A1I."
PRICE ONE CENT.
Copjrialil, HIKI. by Tltr I'rus I'utill.Mni
Co. (The Nrw VutU Worlil).
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1916. 18 PAGES
S PRICE ONE CENT.
r
mmmjl
U. S.
WIRELESS FROM TDBAN1 submarine fires
SAID LINER WAS TORPEDOED; SSSk
un uimMiMO io nnmi .
m mmm who bivm
Three Americans Were on Board the
Dutch Liner Which Left Amster
dam Yesterday Passengers
and Crew Reported Saved.
LONDON, March 16. Without tho slightest warning, the steamship
Vubantlfc of tho Royal Dutch Lloyd was torpedoed this morning In tho
forth Saaoff the North Hinder Lightship. Thcro -were three known Amcri
fcaaa aboard tho ship Richard Schilling, said to he an American consul;
fcma Schilling and Carmen Schilling.
tfitata Den&rtment officials at "i
WaaArintrtoa say there Is no Itlch
art BtiMlHnf In the consular eer
Tke. The records fail to show
anr nvan of similar name In any
other cn.ptilty. 1
The TubantU, a now vessel and
tie of the largest and 'astest In the
awrrlca between the Continent and
.Houth America, wu out want bound
rrom Amsterdam to Hunoes Ayros,
iailnr left the Holland port yester
lay afternoon with forty-two first
ejus, tblrty-thrre second, and eight
ieerate passengers.
According to some account tho
najaaftnrArji ampiirtnil from th sinking
raaael In lifeboats.
NEWS OF THE 8INKING IN WIRE-l
LESS MESSAGE. 1
A wireless mcssago signed "First
WirelRM Operator" ' and received ut
Sfmulden by way of Schevenlngen.
Gotland, rend:
"Tubantla torpedoed and lost.
Am now laavina ship with cap
tain. Don't worry."
Immediately after bemK Htruck Hip
TUbantla began fending out wireless
calls for assistance wnich were picki'd
Up by. a number of vessel!". The fact
that those calls wore, repeated from
time to tlmo Indicated that the Dutch
finer did not go to the bottom imme
diately. Among tho vessels respond
ing to the Tubantla's rnlls woro sev
eral Dutch ships, a large stuam life-
oat from tho Hook of Holland ana
awverul British torpedo boats cruising
In the vicinity of Flushing.
Early reports hnd it that tho liner
had struck a mine, but later do
patches from tho Amsterdam corre
spondent of the Centrnl News are
emphatic In ntntlng that the venae!
was torpedoed. Tho reports also say
that thero were "some Americans
and German women" on board,
it is pointed out that no large Hrlt
irh or French steamers travorso tho
North Hea and tho presonco of so
large a vessel as tho Tubantt.i should
to ire Indicated to a submarlno com
mander that it whs a neutral vessel
(Continued on Klghth I'age.)
BATTLESHIP KENTUCKY
ORDERED TO VERA CRUZ
Will Be Used lo Send Wireless
Messages About Mexico, Says
Secretary Daniels-
WASHINOTON. .March 1. Tho
battleship Kentucky, which has been
at Now Orleans, was to-day ordered
lo proceed to Vera Cnu as soon as
she en n coal and provision.
Secretary Daniels declared tho
reason for tho order was that the
jwvy should have available in .Mex
igan waters a vessel oqulppod with
JmeuXul Yvlrtjes apparatus. , .
ARMY NOW IN HOT PURSUIT
OF VILLA AND
TRAVIS WHITNEY
CONFIRMED AS NEW
P. S. COMMISSIONER
Whitman Appointee I las Only
One Vote to Spare in
Senate Contest.
ill to Tlw Ktrnlrc W rt
ALIIANY, N. ., .March lo
The
nomination of Travis II. Whitney, to
be Public Service Commissioner, was
confirmed in the Senate this after
noon by n voti' of 2" to 1'3. All the
Democrats were In opposition and
six llepulilii'.ins, Cromwell f Rich
mond. Hallldny or Ithnr.i, Lawson
and l.orkwood or llrooklyn, Sngn of
Albany .uid ThoniiH0n of Niagara.
Tho Ciovernor had only ono voto to
spare In tho contest, SB votes being
required to confirm.
For hours to-day tho Senate debuted
anil wrangled over confirmation of
(low Whitman's nominee for Public
Service Commissioners. Travis 11.
Whitney and Charles 8. Hcrvey and
for members of the Industrial Com
mlaslon, Jumes M. Lynch, John
Mitchell, Louis Wlard, Kdwnrd V.
Lyon and William H. H. Hogers.
A small group of old guard Itopub
llcnns, dowdy allied to tho llarnes
machine, led by Senator Henry M.
Sago of Albany, Joined forces with
tho two investigating Sonators,
Thompson and Lawson, for political
reasons, to oppose tho Governor.
Tho Democrats hold a stormy cau
cus during tho morning, but could not
ag.eo on any united plan. Three
fourths of them declared vigorous op
position to Whitney anil threatened
political vengeance on any Democrat
who supported him. Senator Wagner,
leader of the minority, counseled
against party opposition, but bowed
to tho view of tho majority of his
colleagues.
Senator Lawson read a long sp i
citing testimony taken lecently by
tho Thompson Committee alleging
Improper conduct on tho part of
Whitney In an involved case relating
to certain plans for construction of
II. It. T subways.
"1 am Informed that enough of
tho Senators to confirm the in.nlm'CM
hnvo agrred to do so liufc.. hearing
tho arguments, so I sb w uierviv
speak to ki'p tho reonnl straight. "
suld Senator Thompson i';i- t,i. ,-o
Senators who have tho- ,irejud;;i I a
ca.se bc'causo of fear of w'l.it tuiiilit
happen to some of their i.gislui k ii
or to some positions they hope t i oh.
tain for sonm of their constituent,
1 iiuve only pity,"
Torpedo Misses by 20 Feet
Ship Carrying 959 Persons
29 Americans.
U. S. CONSUL ON BOARD.
Eight Babies and 332 Women
on the French Liner Were
in Grave Peril.
The steamship Patrla of the Fabro
Lino and fl1ng tho French flag,
whloh arrived In this port to-day
from the Mediterranean, escaped bo-
In ir tnm.ilnoil h nnlv ltv.nli. r..t
while off tho African ccast on March!
I. Of the P53 persons on board the'
vessel at the tlmo of tho attack,
twenty-nliio wore American cltlicns
and onn of them. Olnov ArnnM. n'a.'
I nlted States Consul General at
Cairo. Kgypt. Tho attack on the liner
wa.s made without warning and
started a panic among tho passen
gers scores of whom Lighted the
periscope of tho submarine and
watched the missile of death pecd ;
toward them and flash past astern
'orsul General Arnold died in Lis
bon the day aftir landing from tho
Patrla. according to entile despatches
received by tho State Department. He
had been in ill health.
Tho Americans aboard the I'atria
aro expressing indignation at tho
submarine attacking thu liner with
out the slightest Intimation of its
Intent. Whether tho submarine was
German, Austrian or Turkish is not
known to the otllcers of tho vessel or
the pnssongors At tho tlmo of tho
attack thero were 320 men passen
gers, 33.' women and eight babies, j
ilesldes tills number tlicro wero 230
members of the crew. Tho vessel
later touched at Lisbon and Increased
its passenger list to about 2,000.
WARNING SENT BY WIRELESS
TO THE FRENCH LINER.
The I'atria, formerly ono of the
crack linors of tho Fabro service,
sailed from Naples March 2S and
reached Palormo tho following day.
Shortly aftor leaving tho Sicilian port
bohind Capt. Pierre DeschellM re
eclves a warning from Capo Degrardo
on tho Algerian const. Tho wireless in
formed the Patrlu's commander that a
submarino wus operating In the waters
nearby and warned them to keep a
sharp lookout. Capt. Dcschclles at
onco Increased his lookouts to fifteen
men, stationed In various pails of tho
vessel. Lifeboats, contnlnJng food and
water, were swung outboard from tho
davits and otllcers assigned to tho vu
rious boats.
Tho morning of March 1 found the
Patrla off tho Coast of Tunis. The
African shoreline, twelvo miles dis
tance, was barely discernible. The
vessel was travelling at hrr maxliim
sped toward Gibraltar.
Captain Dnschnlles was on th
bridge and was Issuing Instructions
to Ptitser Dealloln. Nino o'clock hnd
Just been struck on tho ship's Hells
when tho lookouts forward began
to sing out tho submarine warnings.
Tho porisoopo of tho undersea boat
had been sighted about a quarter
mile distant off the port how. The
Pntiia's rommnnder immediately
Mgnnlld to bis engineers for even
greater sped and ordered the quarter
master to throw the t.flm liurd-a-starboard
Tim i.ext uvinesit tho
captain saw the torpedo's eourtio
marked on tho watci ns it sped
Tho sud J n swinging of the vessel'
threw the ste.ru about Juit in Um
United States Army Lieutenant
Who Killed Self in Columbus, N. M.
t
it vi. i m mi
I Y Mi
LIE.UT Zeid.' S ini fuj iw,
RANK NEARLY LOSES
$479,520 RY ERROR
Three Ciphers AJJeil to S48i) OkU
I'y Mistake in .National Cu;
Hank's Cable CjiJe.
Adjustment has just been im i '
n curious error In a code cablegram
which almost cost th" National i'ity
Dank of Now York n sum of nvitn-
said to lio nearly Jt80,W. The bank
was cabling J4S0 to an American
at Horne, Switzerland, according to
report, and tho codn characters were
translated in Indon with thrn mora
ciphers added
Tho full amount was p.mi at the
othor end, but when the mistake whs
discovered tho hank managed to
straighten out. the matter without
loss to any ono concerned
At the olllce of tho b.inh, No. .'
Wall Street, tho exact sum of inones
involved was kept secret, as was also
the nan.e of tho American to whom
the mone was cattle. I.
AVIATION INQUIRY APPROVED.!
Itonar Military ronimlttrr Intra (nr
A no 7 Corps Iim rstlaiitlon.
WASHINGTON. March H lly '
unanimous vote the Huusn .Military
tjominmeo to-nn approveii 'oni;re.
slonal Investigation of the urmy tivln
tlon corps. 'Die committee favorably
reported Senator Jtohinson's resolu
tion ordering the Inquiry.
Chairman Hay plans to exjiedito
adoption of the resolution next ucek
by the Houf.0. Jf adopted -cu Trent,
dent Marshall and Speaker I'birk
will Immediately appoint I'ninmlttoe
men to In gin Inking the tctlmom
to avoid the misilo of ile.ith. The
torpedo hot h ihe strainer's ru'ld' r.
missing it by u bare twentj feet
Tho torpedo passed so close to tv
Patrla that scores of jiassengeis and
tCouUaued on auth l'mj
FLEEING
Hi
LIEUT. ZELL, U. S. A,
ENDS HIS LIFE IN
Memher of Gen.
Pershing's
Command a Suicide as Army
inters Mexico.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex.. Mnrc'i I
Word was received at Southern
parttnent Headquarters from Hous
ton. io-dny, of tho sulfide of First
Lieut Ldward .M. Moll, .L.eientn
I'av.ilrv, nt Columbus, .V M . early
to-da
(..in. y.oir.i regiment rt.is p.nt if
Mir Pershing's command .Mei.in-
holm is glten ns the 'Utile
Lieut, .ell was famous at Wmt
Point us a Htur member of tho base
li.ill and football teams, linvlng rn
tuned to tho school si verai Mnies
t i 1 1 ich lie in Htirvlvod by his
widow and two children at Port Ogio
thorp" IVnnl iitloiinl (iiinri! Mini n m.
Islunt Secrelnrr of Wnr.
WASHINGTON. March 10 - President
Wiloii practically promised tin- Kmc.
utlve Coinniltti f the Natlonsl Guard
Asvxritlon to-dny ho would appoint as
it i Secretary of Win - u man who
urn f.iniiluir with Nnllonnl Guard af
r.i . ' r- 'I'n ullillllttee f llgKedtecl f.n tiler
Id pi tit itu I'oiuiollj if Ion ii u
s, I. ,o'i tin liei Ii muile
ll.inl-li l.lnec llelil I i Uf llrlll.li.
I.i in I m in 'l.ir. h II (drlHjid) I'hr
Jiatll'ii ' ii' ' I'li'ilerlck VIII. from Vew
Voik Mum n I for Copenhagen, hna
iiein in, i. into Kirkwall for lunil
nU'jn !'j 'In llrlttth authontl-i
COLUMBUS IP
mSaoe PERSHING MS PISTON;
i nnnnrn in otii i in rnn
Neither Will 69ili Regiment
Turn Out for Annual
Irish Pageant.
HIiALYITI:S TO MARCH.
Kennedy Faction of A. O. II.
Not Represented at Cathe
dral Conference.
Cardinal Farley will not review tho
St. Patrick's Day parade to-morrow
if the Healy faction has a parade.
There will bo no reviewing stand in
front of St. Patrick's Cathedral, a
fixture of March 17 for many years. ;
Coroner Itealy said at 3 o'clock to
day that' he would have a parade,
notwithstanding tho odds against
him.
The Sixty-Ninth Regiment will not
turn out and several Irish and Csth
ollo organisations have also expressed
their determination not to get in-1
volvtd In the factional fight'
It was tho uuderstitdlng of Cor
oner Healy that there was to bo n '
conferenco at the Cathedral this,
morning, but he with several of his
followers appeared nnd met only j
Mgr. Mooney. Tho Kennedy faction
was not represented. Mgr. Mooney !
said:
"The Cardinal directed me to In-'
form the gentlemen who waited on mo
this morning that be would not re
view tho parade, and that tlicrn will
lie no stand In front of tho Cntho-1
dral."
Mgr. Mooney was asked if tho Car
dinars, action was caused by the
failure of tho factions to get together
and bo suld he presumed so
"Cardinal Farley doesn't wish i
discuss tho matter," ho said, "but I
presume that his action is duo to the
dissensions and the failure of the fac
tions to como together this day."
To-morrow will mark tho second
titiw In forty years that tho Sixty
ninth Keglment has not marched In
the St. Patrick's Day parade
.1. Power Dotinollnn, rounnnl for
Kogor Kennedy, lender of the faction
opposing tho Hnalyltes, said:
"No doubt tho Healy people were
holding out an olive branch when
they Invited us to parade, but n ,
corpse can't hold an ollvo branch, and l
thu Heaty faction Is us surely a
corpse ns If It were laid on a slab In
the morguo."
It makes no difference to us
whether the Cardinal or the Sixty
ninth Iteglmont remain away from
the celebration," s.tld Mi. Hcaley
la'e this afternoon. "We have pa-
railed venr after year without their I
aid and I guess we can go tluough
the ceremonies without them. We
will be reviewed by Mayor Mltrhel
and his staff of city oniclals, and I
gi.ess wo will have some recognition
nun from those who we outguessed."
Attaches of Coroner Heuly's nnice
prssenteil him with u sliver mounted
rldlntc crop to-day. Tho Coroner will
ride. Propnrodnesti, a horse presented
o him yesterday, in tho parade to
morrow, Mayor Mltchel and other olllclnls, It
was announred, will review the parade,
from the balcony of the Pavoy Hotel,
Fifth AM'tiue und Fifty-ninth Street
Orders In f'lrnr l.lnrr Vermin,
I nrr,rliiu linn.
AMIINOTON March 1H The liar
,iti , mi Veiotiv nt Vew Vork. hai
In i it oiile rd ilmreil hv 'hu rrraiurVj
I leim i uni lit , upon tiintru' tlotii of the
Slut" Department, which has been
amoiied hv lh Italian Amhaixidnr thn t i
the guns mounted at her morn will bo
utd foi didtnflY purpojM ooly. I
TROOPS
i dUKUtK 15 ol ILL In m
Expeditionary Forces in Two Col
umns, 5,000 Strong, Swing Further
Into Mexico Ten-Mile Advance
Before Halt for Camp Last Night.
PRESIDENT HEARS C ARR ANZA
IS SUPPORTING INVADERS
Jlrif,'. (icii. JV-rhliintf, coninmnding the expedi
tionary forces info Mexico, hus reported to Major
Gen. Fimston at .Snn Antonio thai all is going well
with the lT. S. troops.
A march of ten miles vas made before the hall
was called Inst night. Karly this morning the
soldiers were on their way again.
President Wilson was informed by Secretary
of War Haker that the troops were meeting hearty
co-operation from Carrnnzii forces.
Reports from along the border, however, tell
of grave fears there that I he Carranza military leaders
will not be able to suppress the growing ill feeling
against the invasion among Mexican civilians nnd
a considerable number of the soldiers.
Villa was reported in flight to-day to the south
of Casus (i ramies, one hundred miles due south
of where the forces entered Mexico.
MN ANTONIO, Tex., March 16. The find report from Brig. Gen.
I'ersliiiiK, comiiuiiJing the expeditionary forces into Mexico, to Major
Gen. l:unslon, stating that all was going well, was received at Fort
bam Houston early to-Jay.
The report dealt with (he disposition of the various units, the dis
tance of the first day's march and the movement of the Carranza troop.
All these facts come under the censorship, however, and were not
given out.
Gen. lum.ston stated tli.u the message contained no reports of en
gagement WASHINGTON, March lo. President Wilson was Informed by
.Secretary Maker early to-day that Kith columns of American troops now
in Mexico in pursuit of Villa and his bandits were meeting with hearty co
operation trom the Carrana soldiers.
CI. PASO. Tex. March 10. Vllln, slnco the pijrSim of the American
army started, apparently has passed beyond tho .merlcna Mormon colony
nt CaH.m Cirandea. Trustworthy despatches to-dny Indicated that BOO Amer
icans there mo snfo. Thesu despatches gave credit to Carrania rorc
alsiut Casus Urandes for puttlttK up n rront which Htopped Villa rrom mak
ing his proposed raid on the Americans.
To-dny's Information ntrormly Indicated that tho bandit leader, with hit
supply of swift horses, Is iikuiii on thu move. Information concerning ht
movements was closely guarded.
Cants (irandcH I about ion miles due Mouth ot tlio point whera u
column of (inn. Pershing entered Mexico yesterday.
COLU.MIIUH, N. M., .Mnrch 16. The advance guard of the eipedlttoa
Into Mexlro to enpturo Francisco Villa Is well out on tha Mfxlcan
desert to-day, bound south. The cavalry, machine gun und artlllory de
tachment, some J.'.'ui strung, which Irft Columbus yesterday, encamped
last night about ten miles south of the border anil Murtcd on a long hike
early lo-da
('ii. )ndd'H i xppdiiiuti. whuh has boen organiznl ht Haclilta, N. il
Is also ell over tlio line to-day. striking down in u southeasterly direc
tion tn join the main column, which is In direct charge of (Jen. i'orshlnf
It is assumed by persons familiar with tho country into which thn troops
am proceeding that the two columns will join as aooa aa possible and
