wWWPpWWIMfPWfly
"-B
FINANCIAL EDITION
A'
Cuettmn
NIGHT
EXTRA
SWiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
Y0li.n.-NO.lB8
PHILADELPHIA, TIIUllSDAY, iUAllCU U), 1010.
COFTAiailT. 1010. Bt TDK PCBUO X,IS0CB COUMttT.
PKIOH ON"JB OEITO
TROOPS PRESS
ON AFTER TILT
IN VILLA HUNT
Guerrillas Take Pot Shots
at Pershing's Jrorce on
Villa Hunt
MAYOR SMITH AND, OTHER PROMINENT PHILADELPHIANS ENJOYING GEORGIA'S AIR
I RAID ON TEXAS POST
iThlrd Expedition, Following
t First 5500 Advance, Planned
From El Paso
The "flying column" of American
troops, marching into Mexico to "get
Francisco Villa, (lend or nlivc," was
fired on by Mexican guerrillas shortly
after crossing tho border from Colum
bus, N. M. Tho troopers, suffering
bo casualties, easily dispersed the out
laws and continued their advanco
jouthward.
Approximately 5500 United States
soldiers are now well within Mexican
territory, n force of -1000, under com
mand of General John .1. Pershing,
having left Columbus, and n detail of
1600 having left the Hnchitn region,
under command of Colonel Dodd. A
third section is expected soon to leave
El Pnso.
The point of concentration of the
three converging columns is said to bo
Guzman, on tho Mexican Northwestern
Railroad, about sixty miles south of
v Columbus.
Following the burning of Colonia
Dublan, a Mormon colony, Villistas
are reported moving on the settle
ment of 500 of tho Mormons at Casas
Grandcs, vowing death to all. Word
ofthe menace was taken to El Paso
by a son of Bishop Hurst. Aid is said
r,to bo too far away to prevent the at
tack.
American troops guarding the rail
road bridgo at Kingston, Tex., in tho
Brownsvillo district, were attacked by
a small band of outlaws, who were re
pulsed, with no American losses. Tho
guards have been doubled.
' A band of armed Mexicans across
the border from San Benito, Tex., is
. laid to be threatening attack. Rangers
are on guard.
Border raids are feared at numcr-
' li. i ..t.- m j t
A'- v 3 punua-unu uiu xuxu: uiiu 11 cw
i Mexico State militas are expected to
be called out as a patrol.
The United States destroyer Stew-
m art went from San Diego to Enscnada,
Lower California, to quell possible
Villa riots and guard the Americans
there. Quiet was reported upon the
warship's arrlvnl.
American colonists, togethor with
k United States Consul Wilson, from
Torreon, havo fled tho district for
iafety across the border.
No confirmation has been received
of reports that Carranzistas are act
ively co-operating with tho United
K States troops in tho march against
Villa. In Washington the view is thnt
"non-interferenco" is tho only support
that will be given the campaign.
r 'P?WiiSSiti) SB,'t'.ilSIl'l a&'Jmamstmai WCwSflv.5'4
'mMw'wr I WmWR&mvB WW if iff If f f I I HBPPI m
" ' - -y V y .
... .
QUICK NEWS
STEAMSHIP IN DISTRESS OFF CAPE COD
. WASHINGTON, March 10. The Arlington wireless station to
day rcpoitcd the steamship William Bfsbee, of Rockland, Me., In dls
tiess ten miles off Cape Cod. Coast gtnud cutteis have gono to hot
assistance.
ITALIAN OFFENSIVE FOILS GERMAN PLANS AT VERDUN
PARIS, March 10. Plans of the Austiian War Office to send
150,000 tioop& to help the Germans of at Vcidun rc&ultcd lu tho Ital
ian oriciiiive which is now uudcr way, it was learned fiom n reliable
bourco today. In consequence the Austiian troops wcio not scut to
Trance, nioit of them feeing held ou tho Ibonzo fiout.
STRIKE CLOSES POTTERY PLANT
SEHKING, O., Mutcli IB. I'lvo pottery plants hero nro Idle because of a
strllto InvolvliiR 1S00 persons.
for
NEW HAVEN INQUIRES FOR 30 SWITCH ENGINES
NHW HAVEN', March 1C Tho New Haven today aent out a call for blda
30 motor BWltch ctiKlncs. to cost about $30,000 each.
GERMAN ATTACKS
ON VERDUN FRONT
BROUGHT TO HALT
Teuton Guns Continue to
Sweep Lines Northeast
of Fortress
FRENCH GAIN IN WOEVRE
Paris Reports Success of Bom
bardment of Foe's Positions
at Nieuport
VILLA BAND TAKES INITIAL
CBACK AT AMERICAN FORCE
"fl US D1AKW1 liMO 3IEXICO
U lih i'Aao, Tex., March 16.
rnnotsco Villa haa opened his warfare
ijilnst American troopa sent to hunt him
Sowrf. News reached here today that
mounted Mexicans fired upon the expedi
tion eent Into Mexico shortly after It
B-erased the border yesterday afternoon.
,inere were no casualties, and the march
of the American column was not halted
or the attack.
Thomas Davis, a ranchman living- two
Eil fro.ra Columbus, N. M.. whence the
i"ce? f Oeneral John J. Pershing set
vUt, Droueht In fha ,itn .i. .
:CJa8h bfitftrnnri Iho lM..iMM ..i .
gleans. " "'""- B -
u,?! Americans ,hkd Just started across
T. V. M,n(iar' 1,ne whe, the Mexicans fired
ci,T .,aL ,ne "oopers of the 13th
out 'Z,I.Thlch ,ed the Plition. With-
VUl aWBltlnir in nrilsi. (ho -..., I j
bwk S5flu,n.K ther chines and fired
- !Lr The Mexican then retreated.
't'h. , rmlsn waa over BO 'lulckly that
.IUO COlUInn wnn Mrt l.l.A.i . ..
Bitnrfn.7 7 " Jiaiiou. n Luuuiiueu
"ir.LaIoi,B.tha OW waeon trail that
-- nie ursi part of the course through
th. fJeacterU3 Sierra Madro foothills to
toLt ttn .over wnlch "thesa Americans
uSLPvmt0 fewnPllah their purpose of
nfr, VJ!Ia allve " Villa dead.
uavls thought that thesa attaeklnir M.
to th.Were ""nxlsta troops belonging
tinl h50!?J'an, ' Oeneral Pablo Her-
ltohilc;e. by onlclal rePort8 from Co
KS!:;atlns that Qneral Bertanl was
ikQri;r. " f .ntl ,ne Americana. It was
riSf1."y den1!'1 General Qavlra, Car-
Vhen ri , JtrJ""i. D0" exclaimed Oavlra.
wnea Informed of the report. "Why. I
W epeclal inntrnniinn. . '. AV.i
.. ....wiu, ,VU J7 14-( uuiei
PAIIIS, Jrarch 16.
wnother lull !n tho Oerman Infantry at
tack at Verdun Is nnnounced In today'a
French communique. It says, however,
that tho lolcnt bombardment to the cast
of the Meuso continues.
French eunncis have shollcd numerous
silpply train:) carrj'lng food and ammuni
tion to the German troops In tho Woovro
region French artillery activity Is also
reported in Belgium.
Tho text of tho communique follows:
Our patrnlH have reported that a
destructive flro from our artillery, di
rected against the Oerman organiza
tions in tho coastal region of Nieuport
yesterday evening, completely wrcckod
communicating trenches and killed n
number of tho enemy.
In the legion to tho north of Ver
dun no Infantry action was reported
during tho night. The bombardment
has continued rather feebly on the
loft bank of tho Mouse, but very vio
lently on tho right bank. In the re
gion of Uaudremont nnd Damloup.
Our artillery has violently bom
barded tho region west of Dotmumont,
where tho enemy was building earth
works. In tho Woovro wo havo bombarded
numerous supply trains.
Cast of Apremont forest a surprise
attack on a German trench enabled us
to Indict some losses on tho enemy
and to capturo somo prisoners.
In tho Vosges, south of tho Thur,
tho Germans launched an attack on
our positions near Burnhaupt.
Checked by our curtains of fire, the
enemy was unablo to reach our
trenches.
BERLIN, March 15. Attempts by the
- tt S --r
TRIUMVIRATE
HOLDS REINS
OF CITY POWER
Son-in-Law, as Chief of In
vestigation and Research,
Completes Coalition
BRITAIN MAY CALL OUT MORE MARRIED MEN
LONDON, Mnrch 16. An Important conference or iiillltnry authorities la
soon to bo held, It Is reported, nt which tho questions of calling moro married
groups to the colors nnd the raising of tho ugo limit nf slnglo men will ba
discussed. This Is another stop In tho Government's plan to get every available
single and married man Into tho army.
ASQUITII BROKE PLEDGES, 'MARRIED MEN SAY
, LONDON, March 1C. Premier Asqultli nnd Lord Derby wore hotly denounced
today nt a mass-meeting of married men. who have attested for military service
J under tho 'Derb recruiting Hclietne. "Premier AHqulth Is cither a liar or a
j fool for denying that Ills pledges havo been broken," shouted Chairman Vlncr,
j who had charge of the meeting. Those presont udopted n resolution that they
would not enlist until tho pledges of tho Premier and Lord Derby arc redeemed.
Tlieso pledges nro that single men shall bo called up for service beforo tho
I married men.
SMITH "FAMILY AFFAIR"
Mayor and Brother Joseph C.
Form Connecting Sides
of Official Triangle
In the upper picture, the figures, from right to loft, nro Frederick
Smith, 10 years old, son of tho Mayor; Thomas lloyle, president of
tho American Bank and member of the Board of Education; James
Hazlctt, Recorder of Deeds; W. Frccland Kendrlck, Receiver of
Taxes; Mayor Smith, Senator Varo and Harry Dolfingor, out for a
ride at Augusta. Below is the Mayor astride his favorite Georgia steed.
HAUPT, SECOND VICTIM
OF HOLD-UP, DIES WITH
MURDER STORY UNTOLD
MAYOR AND HIS I?ARTY
HAVING A MERRY TIME
IN THE SOUTHLAND
Assistant to Dead Paymaster
Succumbs to Wounds Mrs.
Kastening's Grief In
creased by Tragedy
LAW TO AID FAMILIES
Continued on l'uia Fire, Column Tour
ADMIRAL VON TIRPITZ,
'FATHER OF UNDERSEA
FRIGHTFULNESS QUITS
German Minister of Marine Re
signed His Post Because of
Illness, Reports From
Berlin Assert
SURPRISE FOR TEUTONS
Cantfnued oa Pate roar, Column One
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
iS?i& Philadelphia and vicinity
ihltt0Xgh with loweat temperature
iri g0Je?' Friday fait and
t f!rj diminishing northwest winds.
jt r details see page ifi.
10SX AND FOUND
ttwfca:i0,n?..'!m,?,l cltutor rlar. lot be.
iSteatSKsHE HSK&a
Loot carina
I?-J-se
t2"ra.
MH mnlilln.r nivalin
E. H. Lent, lit N nth II
tort aai ruo4 Ai bVi li"
I1KBLIN. March 16
Official announcement was made today
that Admiral Alfred von Tirpltz, German
Minister of Marine, has resigned because
of Illness.
Admiral von Capelle, DIreetor of the Ad
ministration Department of the Admiralty,
(-has been appointed successor to Admiral
von Tirpltz.
Rumors of Admiral von TIrplU's resig
nation had been In circulation for 34 hours
befoie the announcement was made, the
unofficial reports attributing the navy
chief's departure from, the Admiralty to
the Inactivity of the Meet. It Is believed
that the submarine policy of the Govern
ment will etand.
Admiral von Tirpltz has been accused
by his enemies of being the father of the
"policy of frlgptfulness." IIo waa tho
originator of submarine blockade, but is
understood to have consistently opposed
the departure of the German high seas
fleet from the Kiel Canal.
"In some quarters it la believed the res
ignation of Grand Admiral von Tirpltz
la connected with the Kaiser's decision
not to extend submarine warfare beyond
the limits announced to neutrals In the
recent memorandum, and not to direct it
against neutral ships," said the Bemlofll
clal news agency today.
It was also reported that Admiral von
Tirpltz had been compelled to resign by
the Kaiser to avoid dismissal, but this
was contrary to the information conveyed
In the official statement.
The resignation of the Minister of
Marine was a thunderbolt to Germany,
According to press reports, the Admiral
Is ill from overwork and anxiety, and
this has been aggravated by disappoint
ment Plana which Admiral von Tlrpitz
had worked out fulled of carriage, al-
iaS
ealllllllUMLIIS&illllllllfliiiaBflr
Enjoyment So Great That Holi
day May Be Prolonged
Until Middle of Next
Week
VARE AS AN "AFFINITY"
Ceotlantd oa face Xlro. Cehitnn Tw
WALTER S. HAUPT
Assistant paymaster, who was
shot by bandits at Germania
Mills, Kensington, who died today.
"Walter Ilaupt, second victim of the gun
men who killed Hennwn Hastening, pay
master of the Gerrnaida Worsted Mills,
Indiana avenue and A street, died today.
Ills death has added to the grlet of Kast
ening's widow, who prayed dally that
Ilaupt would be spared so that she might
hear from him the details of the crime
or the last words uttered by her husband.
The only streak of sunshine In the trouble
which has come to the families of the
murdered men Is provided by the work
men's compensation act.
Under the terms of the law, Kastening's
widow and daughter have a right of re
covery, while the parents, brothers or
sisters of Ilaupt, who waa unmarried, can
also bring an action. While no negligence
waa Bhown on the part or the company,
and It was not the fault of their employers
that the men were attacked, the fact that
they were Injured In the performance of
their duty Is enough ground to recover,
according to Keferea George C Klouder.
The death of Ilaupt, who lived at ITS
West Lipplncott street, Is a serious blow
to the detective tu their work of track
ing down the gunmen and completing the
cases against them. The police were
awaiting Kaupfs recovery In order to
AtMira a positive identification of Michael
Toorchuk and Joseph Kopulinskl, the
AUGUSTA, Qa., March 16. Mayor
Smith and his party are having a merry
time here ; such a merry one, In fact, that
Philadelphia's Chief Executive Is thinking
of extending his originally planned stay
a couple of days. He meant to leava Sun
day for home ; now he Is talking about re.
malnlng until the mlddlo of next week.
Golf In the morning, horseback riding In
the afternoon and dancing In the evening;
these are the diversions that mako up the
usual dally prog- am. Sometimes the golf
Is put off until the afternoon part of tho
day and tho horses are brought Into serv
ice In the forenoon, but the rule Is tho
other way about.
Senator Vara Is sticking close to the
Mayor, though the other members of the
party usually go their own way. Tho men
generally play alone and the ladles of the
Vlsting group And their own fun. They
aren't very keen about golf or horsebaci
riding either, and a carriage ride, which
by the way is much more popular down
here than motoring, seems to suit them.
Little Frederick Smith, about 10, is
nearly always with his father, and he, the
Mayor and the Senator make up an In
separable trio.
Kreeland Kendrlck has found so many
friends here that he hasn't much time to
spend with the folk he came with. Augusta
Shrlners say he la about the classiest
TRIUMVIRATi: (-vlrat). n. (r.. trlumvlra
tuiO. Umcrnmcnt hy thrco In coulttlnn or ub
soclntlon; the term of audi a irovotiiment.
A cnnlltloti or association of threo In ofMco
or authority, cap. either of two which Krnflpetl
tho Kov'rnmpnt of tho Itoman KnuiliM. l'om-
, py. Julius Caesar ntnl Crauuim formed tho
'. Klmt Trlumlrato (00 II. C): Mark Antony.
. tuvlus (Augustus) ami Luuldua the Ueconu
'iTimnviraio -j -ii. tj,f.
Any Krnup or usMoclatlnn of thrcp. WKIt-
sti:h's nkiv i.vri:itN.vrit).Ai, jmction-akv.
Tho appointment of William S. Robert
son, son-in-law of Mayor Smith, to tho
position of "chief of Investigation and
research" lu tho Civil Scrvlco Commission,
has placed absolute control of nil City
Hull appointments In the Smith family.
As a result, many of tho 4000 "faithful"
who woro promised city jobs during tho
campaign last fall, and who havo not
been loyal followers of tho Vars, nro
worried over their prospects.
"I don't know what a triumvirate is,"
said ono politician who lias been wntcli
fully waiting for a City Hall appointment
notwithstanding tho I'cnrose-McN'Ichol
colors ho displayed last year, "but If you
mean Mayor Thomas II Smith, his brother
and becretary, Joseph C. Smith, and Will
iam S. Itobcrtson, tho Mayor's son-in-law,
I guess It's powerful, all right."
GERMANY OFFICIALLY DENIES SINKING SILIUS
WASHINGTON, March 16. Count von Hcrnstorff, tho Gcrmnn Ambassador,
this Afternoon tiled with the Stnto Department un official disclaimer that a Ger
man submarine sunk tho Norwegian bark Slllus In llavro Roads. Tho Cis
olalmcr wnHmndo tinder direct Instructions from tho German Foreign Office,
which stated that no German submnrlnc was In that vicinity at tho tlmo the
bnik was sunk. '
GERMANY MAY PRESS NEUTRALS INTO WAR DUTY
LONDON, March 16. Tho Exclmngo Telegraph's Amsterdam correspondent
reported today that Germany is considering pressing Into scrvlco nil neutrals
who havo lived In Germany continuously for five years. A consus of theso
neutrals 13 being tnken, tho dispatch said, and they probably will bo forced to
do garrison duty, relieving landsturmera and others, who will, bo sent to tho
front. It Is estimated that 3O,O0"0 neutrals nro linble to service.
"A FAMILY AFFAIR.'
DR. J. W. WHITE'S CONDITION CAUSES APPREHENSION
Friends of Dr. J. William White, surgeon and educator, are npprohenslvo re
garding his condition. Ho has been III for several months and manifests virtually
no Improvement. At his home, 1810 Rlttcnhouse, squaro, ho was reported to bo
"Just tho Kirao as yesterday,"
NEW COALITION CABINET IN PORTUGAL
LISBON, March 16. A new coalition Cabinet, headed by Senor Almeida, has
been formed, It was nnnounced today, to prosecuto Portugal's wnr program,
rrcmler Almeida will nlso hold the portfolio of Minister of Colonics. Tho other
appointments are: Senor Cutlnho, Minister of Marino; Senor Costa, Finance;
Captain do Mattos, War; Senor Soares, Foreign Affairs; Senor Carvalho, Justice;
Professor Martin, Education; Doctor Rcls, Interior and Labor.
AMERICAN DOCTOR REPORTED EXECUTED BY BRITISH
SEATTLE. Wash., March 16. Friends of Dr. Walter Gellhorn. a nromlnent
The duties of tho Mayor'H son-in-law Seattle physician, will ask tho Stato Department to ascertain his fate, us tho
Includo a thorough Investigation of every . result of unconfirmed reports thnt ho had been taken from a steamshfn at
Kirkwall, Scotland, by the British naval auxiliaries anil put to death. Doctor
Gellhorn was on his way to Germany to Join tho German Itcd Cross. Efforts
to ascertain Doctor Gellhorn's whereabouts have been unavailing. Doctor Gell
horn has a brother in St. Louts.
applicant for a city Job wltoho namo up
pears on tne eligible lists He wns ap
pointed to tho place recently created by
Councils for tho expressed purpose of "In
mjlrlng Into tho history, autecemlents,
habits and qualifications" of all applicants.
The applicants aro recommended by tho
Mayor through his brother and secretary,
or aro recommended to the Mayor through
his brothor and secretary by one of tho
department heads, and then tho Mayor's
son-in-law passes upon their qualifications
for the place they aro after. That political
predilection will also count heavily when
the Mayor's son-in-law passes upon the
fitness of applicants to hold city Jobs Is
not doubted In political circles.
"A strange coincidence" led to the np-
Coiitliiutil on Toge Btwn, Column 'llirre
ARMOR PLATE WORKERS
SHIELDED BY WEEKS
Senator Says Government Plant
Would Be Disaster to
Industry
ATCHISON INCREASES WAGES 10 PER CENT.
CHICAGO, March 16. An advance In wages amounting to 10 per cent a
month has been granted by tho Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fo Railway Com
pany to Its station employes.
CZAR APPROVES TRIAL OF EX-WAR MINISTER
LONDON, March 16. Emperor Nicholas has approved the. decision of
the Commission of Inquiry to bring evidence of alleged illegal acts of former
Minister of War General Soukhomllnoff, before tho Judicial Department
of the Imperial Council, with a view to his arraignment on a charge of
being responsible for the shortage of munitions for tho Russian army, says
Reuter's Petrograd correspondent. General Soukhomllnoff resigned as Minister
of War on June 26, 1915, and was succeeded by General Pollvanoff.
Continued on Face Three, Column One
RUSSIA AND ENGLAND
FLIRT WITH SWEDEN
Allies Try to Win Nation
Their Side to Block Ger
many's Baltic Ports
to
BERLIN (via wireless), March 16.
Russia and England are now making ef
forts to win Sweden to the side of the
Allies, despite the Swedes' distrust of
Russia and their bitter feeling over the
English blockade.
The Russian Minister to Stockholm was
quoted in dispatches received here as de
claring that Sweden and Russia should
co-operate to control the Baltic
No fear Is felt by German officials that
the newest Allied diplomatic plan will be
successful. Popular feeling against Eng
land and Russia Is said" to be so deep
rooted In Sweden that the Government
would, not give serlpua consideration to
any move of this sort, it is said here.
The primary aim of the Anglo-Russian
diplomats, it U reported, la to obtain
Sweden's passive acquiescence la a. block-
ausDecta who havo been partially Identl- "Je of Germany's BaHlo ports. The Allies
fled as- the bandits who were seen runnln then would count upon, throwta, block-
W" - - - - aila Brnltn1 flannn itu lVnii HaWiAtli,..
4VUWWJ ltUVUWBVWtV
CeaUanrf a Un-w9. Cetewa w PWtet by the United States, p
WASHINGTON. March 16. Sharply
attacking the Tillman armor plate bill,
defending present private manufacturers,
and characterizing as unfounded the Sen
ate committee's claim that relations be
tween manufacturers and former admin
istrations have been "scandalous," Sen
ator Weeks today advocated Instead the
encouragement of the armor plate in
dustry. A policy of national encouragement, he
said, would lead to the upbuilding of a
profitable domestic and foreign business.
A course of Government competition, he
said, would be "foolish in the extreme"
and would lead only to national disaster
the losing by the manufacturers of the
home market and of the possibility of In
vading foreign markets.
If, he declared, they were "ghen as.
gurances of steady and profitable employ-
mem, uiner urmor manufactories in au
dition to the present ones would be built
up."
Denying certain Interests have been fa
vored In past Government contracts, he
asked. "Is it favoritism to Bpeclal Interests
for this Government to buy what it needs
of its own citizens?
"It is true," he said, "the Government
must purchase from three manufacturers
likely to agree on prices. The sensible
thing to do la for the Government to con
tract with the companies for a limited
time, agreeing to buy a certain minimum
tonnage, the companies to guarantee a
certain maximum If needed, and the Gov
ernment to guarantee a stated profit- x
"To attack the manufacturers, to de
stroy their business and for the Govern
ment to place Itself la competition with
them U without, precedent or excuse. Such
a peltoy will triajt aath'isg tat ";- f If "
RUMANIAN QUEEN, FRIEND OF ALLIES, ILL
LONDON, March 16. Zurich dispatches to the Exchange Telegraph Com.
pany repeat stories from German sources that Queen Marie of Rumania Is
seriously 111 and growing worse. Queen Marie was Princess Marie of Edinburgh,
and Is the granddaughter of Czar Alexander II and also of Queen Victoria. She
has been, consequently, throuEhout the war conslstepUy friendly to tho causa
of the Allies. There havo been many indications that Russia and England, to
whose royal families she Is related, have counted strongly upon net to neutralize)
the Influence which his German descent might have upon her royal husband.
PHILADELPHIA COTTON IN HOLLAND TO BE FREED
SCHIEDAM, Holland, March 16. Two thousand bales of American cotton,
which were forwarded by a Philadelphia company and destined for a Bremen
firm, are about to be released from the Netherlands Overseas Trust's embargo
under which they have been held here for months, owing to Great Britain's
stipulation that none but Dutch industries would be permitted to receive such
shipments. Dutch spinners, who are badly In peed of raw material, have bought
the consignment from the Bremen firm at a price $10 a bale In excess of the
quotation of tho day.
WOMEN BEREAVED BY WAR URGED TO JOIN MORMONS
IONDON, March 16. Mormon elders are actively proselytizing among women
bereaved by the war, and this has aroubed prominent members of the clergy a.u4
social workers In general throughout England. An official of the National Union
of Women Workers declared that the organization had a committee, make an
investigation because of the Increased efforts of the Mormon propagandists.
From other well-Informed sources It Is learned that missionaries from Salt Lako
City are urging their doctrines In households where the men are at the frpnt.
I( Is explained that these missionaries prosecute their duties tn such fashion 3
to make It difficult to prove they are preaching polygamy.
COMMUTERS LOSE FIGHT FOR LOW FARE
The fare reduction sought by commuters between Broad Street Station nnd
0th street has been refused by the Public Service, Commission on tha grounJ
that the present rates axe not excessive. The, straight fare between Brcd Stiwt
Station and 40th street Is 10 cents, pr a 10-trip ticket fojr 83 cents, the aasw
price that U charged for & 10-trlp ticket between Broad Street Station mu$
CMfctrec.
t
-wAwAAj
