Sun.
THE WEATHEHf F
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
Cloudy and colder,
and
warmer
Highest temperature yeste
ft lowest, 14.
rtu on page 13.
Detailed weather, mall und marl
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1916 . Copyright, lilt, by the Sun Printlrp and Publishing Aiiocintion,
PRICE TWO CENTS.
"' -
vim., uvvin. nw. mo.
.1
GERMANS FAIL
TO HOLD GAINS
WESTOFMEUSE
French Ketake Portion of
Treiirhes Lost Near
Lc Moil Homme.
ACTIVITY RENEWED
XOIITII OF YERDUX
Indications Tlint Offensive
in Mic: Battle Has Passed
Out of German Hands.
jie,( I'ibit Hetpatrh foTn Scs.
'.r.ie, March 15. The offensive In the
bet'lo around Verdun nppe.-us from the
enVltl War i idler communiques to-day
to Iiavo passed Into the hamls of ttie
French.
mutter attacks made last night
sgsiiist the tosltlons taken by the Her
yestenlny on the Hetlilncourt-Cu-micros
front recovered certain of three
Iff . ins. The height of Las Mort Homme
did not change hands; It Is still In
f-Mion of tho French.
It i. In tho region to the cast of tho
Mr ,? that the French seem to bo taking
tic offensive. Violent activity I re
ported from t!i Vaux-Damloup sector,
ro:t'ieat of Verdun, where French sklr-
r.ii,ung parties armed with hand gre.
nijes forced the fighting on the elopes!
! of Fort Vanx.
Tin- Hermans made no Infantry at
tacks to-day at uny point In the Verdun
region, .md even their artillery Isambard- !
n-.etit. which hud been of Kro.it vlulcnce
en ili.t U-thlnc-ourt-Cumleres front, de- I
rre.ifed appreciably In Intensity. No'
attempt has been made by the Hermans
is nuke further progress to tho west
ef the rtver since yesterday afternoon.
The positions (rallied by the Hermans
rrl,fU't)t p.iic 01 w men uuve oeen re
ec tipied. wore In the region of Hill 163, I
fon'.lgUmis 111 !. Mnrt llntitniu
The artillery activity on tho right hank
' th Mouse and In the Woevro Is now
Intermittent.
ill let Wet of Hrt.
The official communique Issued by the
r Office to-night follows:
In Helriuiti nn cfTectlve Urn waa
directed against tho enemy trenches
In the regiona of Het-Has and Lange
tiarolt. North of tho Alsne we bombarded
the uutsklrt of Vllle-uux-Bols.
In Champagne,' an attack launched
Yv us on the Herman positions south
tf St Souplet enabled us to occupy
it nieniy trench und to nulio some
frls oners.
Wtt of the Mouse tho bombardment
e Teased appreciably In the course of
t . dty on the front Hethlncourt-r-iimoios,
where no Infantry notion Is
t. fi-t..
i m the right bank (of tlio Meuse)
tl ei" was great activity In the region
e' mix ami Oaniloup. Some sklr
r. li'f with grenades were ninde by
" id' meed detat'hmentH on the
if to tlx; eat of Fort Vaux.
i' 'lio Woevro there was a bom
kprclnent of th vlllagis ut tho foot of
tl. liipen of tho Meuso heights. Our
i i '!er u very uctlvo on tho whole
(i r. imi.ibly lo tlw. east of tho Hols
j rille, whoro a convoy of artillery
n..- i.-porMl, and near the mill of
Dai niwtltpti, north of Fresnen-en-V
jrf, where our tire caused a heavy
txpluMnn In a Ucrnian battery.
French ItrKaln (troand,
Tiio afternoon communique said:
V-t of the Meue the enemy made
no 'u.ther endeavor to advance last
r.ici i
Mciiig our front between Hetliln
cieiri ,i ltd Ciinileres counter attacks
v''. the bayonet and hand grenades
n i le it pifMlble for us to reoccupy a
I'" ''on of the. trenches captured yes-t-rt.iy
by the enemy in the direction
ef I IMI :.-..
We hi. hi Hothlncourt, Li Mort
ll'i me, the southern boundary of tho
I of Cumlerea and the village of
C i l"res.
Iximbardment has continued
' i iiitetHlty In all this soctor and
tie tire i,f the enemy has boon an
tMerr.j t, energy by our artillery.
nern nus neon noining or Impor
ts e ,, report from the right bank I
n -lie veiiso nor in the woeTc dh
trt .shero the artillery exchunges
ht ,. ;ten Intermittent.
'I"1"; night iiassed quietly on tho re
nin ,o r of tho front.
I'efaln Son ConSdent.
f,er (vtain, tho commander at Verdun,
i cxterdits :
' I ktinw whorn I stand, t qra
of Una I success."
T
-'ateriKiit, It U renorted. was
".ne , 4 i.aurame atui M. Fate, mem-
- ..t tu.. ciiamlier of Deputies, who
- chimed to Paris after Inspecting'
-ii'l'iy airangements at Verduti.
w ' Rr"" satisfaction with
- arrangements for the defence.
;.Oa. U l.v which the nermann .
- their gains yesterday lasted for
an.) a half hours, anil viu nnw.Mis
' ' usual heavy artillery preparation.
' .'.ick was begun at 4 o'clock and
'I 'Her tho whole four mile line
llethlnoouit to tho Cumleres orest.
m.is of fjormans advanced frofti tho
iiu ,es rorheaux and 'smaller woods
'if ..,et against tv Mort Homme and
healeat lUhtlng occurred.
tdinnce Fuller Heavy Flrr.
T., re.1c., ,(,,, .lop,. of the n, the
'"inns had to cronx open ground In
t ie f.o e of Intense artlller-. mitrailleuse
""l "lie fire. Heavy losses were In-
1 " the attacking parties, hut they
fi'iKii on in splto of these and took
' positions.
TI.e VhU of Lo Mort Homme lies In
its rfectiveness as an artillery position.
Th ii'isltion Is on a high plateau, dom
"iiit iig on tho east tho present Herman
I'omimis, It occupies an Isolated pool
Hon, ii fart which makes It of value
Miely for aitlllory fire.
It i- presumed that the Crown Prlnco
r.oiiic.l to breHk through the French
Continued on TAIni I'agr.
"r- h at six flaw supper ksilU
TIRPITZ REPORTED OUT.
BUT U BOAT
German Chief $HUl lo uMV0
Itcslfrnod Hecnuse of "Diplo
niatic Illness."
' KAI8KK XOT SATISK1KD?
fprrnt Cablt ttpateh to Tn Stv.
J-oNtxiv, March 15. Upon tho heels,
of persistent
FOUrl ,hul rnn'1 -rtmlral von Tlrpltx ,
Is abollt to resign us Minister of Marine
"because of 111 health" ciimo a Jlerlln
despatch to-day quoting an olllcial an
nouncement IssueJ there to the effoct
that tho new V boat campaign against
armed merchantmen will be neither post
poned nor abandoned, but H In full
wing.
Simultaneously Herlln advices to-day
foreshadowed a debato In tho Itelchst.ig
on tho entire t' boat question. The Her
man parliamentary body convened to
day. The f)fiffj Mail's correspondent at
IWrti quotes tho Htmtgartvr Tancblntt
as saying:
"It li very probable that owing to his
111 health (Irand Admiral von Tirpltz
will bo obliged to rc.iign."
According to same corrospondent, the
Aeiir ZiirrAer y.ettung says that the res
Ignatlon of the Herman Minister of Ma
rine is widely bolleved to Iiavo connoc
tlon with tho modlllcatlon of the sub
marine warfare.
The Copeuhngen correspondent of the
Onllu Malt sayn It Is reported from ller
llp that Von Tlrpltx'a "Illness" Is contld
ertd "due to political dlsagreemonts."
Th correspondent adds that "the Kaiser
n4 I'rlnce Henry are both said to be
hlgftly dissatisfied with the fleet's In
activity." The consensus of opinion among close
observers of the developments In the
Herman undersea campaign Is that tho
Herlln announcement denying report of
a proposed abatement In the U boat war
faro Is aimed at forestalling the theory
that Von TlrpltJ!1 resignation. If It be
comes a fact, will menu a olackenlng or
rveii h aiscunmiuance or the new cam
paign. Admiral Fduard K. vun Capelle. Direc
tor of the Fifth Administration Pep.irt
ment of tho AdmlrHlty. l iiameil as tho
probable succetor to Hraml Admiral von
Tlrpltx. An Kxchuiuto Telegraph d.
patt'h from i'oponhaiieti quotes tlio i-onil-ofllclnl
Wolff Hureau of Herlln as an
nouncing Von Capello'x appointment.
Coupled with Herlln despatches that
the Herman Hovermnent has scored a
victory over tho antl-Anierlean party
that faction In Hermanv which urges
that no regard whatsoever be paid to tho
American protests on submarine, war-
SAYS TURKEY, HUNGRY,
MUST SUE FOR PEACE
Italy's Airent at (.'onstnnti-'
nople Believes Step Will He,
Taken Within Mouth.
Spreuil I'ablt TiftpateK to Till. Si's.
lUHt, .'lillCII Id. ,1 Hi UHOIieili ii'. .. , , ... .
was left at the Italian Kmbassy at Con- ,H r""1 " 'seu, on tho river Huhr,
tantlnoplo to look after the archlvox hit horn of the Krupp gun works. Is rv
now come to Home and has informed the , ported !n desnatches frmn AtiKlerdam.
Foreign Otllco In person that he Is con- , oflflciul statements to-night failed to
Vlnced Turkey will solicit a separate , coiirtrm the re,orl Sl shls lit lsvn
mace from the Allies within a month.
He reports that Turkey Is ierless to
continue the war on account of tnu lack
of foodstuffs, which the Austrian und
Germans positively cannot provide. On '
account of this shortage the army i
already been put on short ration., while
tm Inhabitants of tho country ut large,
are starving.
The correspondent of Tim SUN Is In
formed through diplomatic sources that
serious anti-Herman rioting Is continuing
In Constantinople. Numerous prominent
persons have been arrested, Including
Ahmed Hlxa, formi r President of Parlia
ment. The situation Is the most critical
since the pro-peace movement became
widespread In Turkey.
FOLLOWS ENVER PASHA?
Iteport of Appointment of lonmll
Ifakkl .Nut CiHiMrmril.
, , i,. ..,,i .. T.,,. i
p,clJl taile Dt.patch to Tin. fox.
IiNtON March 1.The Atheni, cor-
respondent cf tho Unity Jfoll describes
the report that Ismail llakkl Pasha has
replaced Knver Pasha as Turkish Minis-
ter of War as not confirmed. He sayr
It Ik believed In Athens that Ihfver Pasha
is dead.
The eorresnondont forwards a reiort
that Talaat Hey. the Minister of the In-
i terlor, lias gone to neneva.
Th,. continued arrival of great nuni-
' hers of refugees from the r.rxerum dlh-
trict at various cltlts III Asia Minor hi
Oenressina' ine no ouianun. n ie r,,.,.-..
that thousands have reached Smyrna
and that 80,000 have arrived at Angor.
.
TURKS BEATEN ON TIGRIS.
Vlctorlou. In
Karlv Morning Attnrk.
Sutnal CabH Df pitch to Tux St v.
a'Ni.os, March o. - no o 1
tlolal statement reKardlfi th e n.tlot s
In MesoiKdiimla was Issued b the War
laiNt'OS, March 15. -The following of-
Office to-day
Hen. Sir Percy l.ake reports that on
Friday the Tigris corps learned that
the Turks had occupied an advanced
position nn the Tigris. A column wus
sent before dawn on Saturday to expel
tho enemy. The Infantry assaulted tho
position and bnyonetted n considerable
number of Turks.
Tarka Drlvf Airmen Krnni Hnlllpoll I
,,., , . .
Sptcial Co6le)pac foTurf.s,
ConhtantInopi.b. via Amsterdum, i
March 15. Tho following official state-
Lment was Issued here to-day:
On Marcn iijniu i iwu i-ruisers
shelled Tekke Hurnu. Threo aero
planes which flew over aalllpoli were
driven oft,
NEW OUTBREAK IN HAYTI.
Aaarrleat Marines Dlsperae Hint
era " Mardl Uraa Fratlval.
WAHIN0T0t. March 15. lteKirts of
a fresh outbreak In Ilujtl, at Han
Mlhlel, reached the Navy Department
to-day. The disturbance arose Incident i
to a Mardl (Iran festival held In that
town recently.
Tho rioter wero dlaporsed by tho
American marines In control there. A
nttaator of rrtU wtri ma4.
WAR GOES ON
i"'-.F VB
.aaaW. Bk.'
a
t
H ill
ami. . t .t j s -.r.-n
Orand Admiral von Tirpttz.
fare the report of the resignation of the
Hertnvi navv .hlef may mean that the
httcr has at last choen to urretider
his ilaeo r.itlicr than bo beniined by
Uhiilltlcatlons impo.ed upon '.dm by the
Foreign Oltlro's eillcy.
Tho Von Tlrpltx theory throughout has
been that ) folding to W.tliliigton do
mainN for safety of Atiierlciii lives
mans Hi ulinoi't Insurniotintalilo liln-
ilraneo to thu I' boats. Tho aimed mer
cliantmeii d.vree, which uiiiloubtedly
' original! .1 with him, was to reinui this
jhlnilra. ee and place the xiibinarlne com
, mamieri in a initlon where they n.uld
sink nil inerchatit w-ssels, on the theory
that llrltam had otilercd that all of them
bo armed. American nou-acqulescence
In the dicteo. however, again put, all ob
, staelo In liN ny, and Ms resignation
j may be the re-mlt.
Tlrplts lint. Wnsliliiitn.ii It ears.
Washington. Mairh 15. The state
Deiiartmont has rcelvod imof ll.ial In
formation to the effect that Oram!
Admiral von Tlrplt, the Herman navy
chief, ha resigned or Is about tu do so.
Department oftlclals refused to specify
their authority fur this statement, or to
. IV tllltL r...tlt tlA ft .(...-, a ....... 4 ,I.a
Oerni.in Kmbafy It was said that noth
ing was known of the matter.
AIR RAIDERS REPORTED
AS SHELLING KRUPPS
six
Sheds at (ierinan Anns
Factory Said to Have
Heeu Dest roved.
IINPOV. March 1.1, -A xiicre-'ful at-
nre vihl ti hae been il.lnneil
Til- ton u of Hlailliach, anout 1.10 miles
southwest nf IM'ii. a l.uve aniiiiiinltlon
luld Ullll MtMklMLr eeef,.. fiu ..lkA .
tacked, ai curding to Amterdam iidvteox
It Is added that the raiders uImi vNtteii
"Munich." il.illi.ich Is comtnotilv known
as .Muenchen-iilailbach. Munich belnc
the I:iik1Mi for Miienchen. It is believed
thai liladhacli. not the capital of Ha
varla. Is the place In question.
lien lies about 17n miles north of
the French linos at Verdun. The laid.
If confirmed, i one of the longest r.enal
expeditions tiiidoitaken by the Allies
during the war.
CANAL TO BE OPEN APRIL 15.
' '' hie. f a..
I'eft Driliiulif Mn l'u I lien.
VvsmMiTnN-. Miiich 15,- The follow-.
InB annou Miient by Col, llanllng, act-
'"' HoNernoi' of the Panama Canal Zone.
W)N Inalfl ,,,,,. ,,,..
Ootidlllotut In !alllard cut Justirv
pHctlons that tho canal will lie avail,
for ,,!, ,)f lnrt). f(1,, ,,ri , , '
AirM smij,.,., , p,,,,!,-,. tf.irarv
,Mnyii thereafter t m.-et exigencies of
,lr,.(iK,,g ib-et In completing ca4ial
to full wldih and depth and In romov-
i ,h, .
' ' ' 1""p-
QUEEN OF RUMANLV ILL.
Her Condition f.ruvrliiK Worse. Nm
Ileapatflies I'rom lliichareat,
lrtlal niblf Hrtpatcb to Tim Stv,
Zrwrit, .March 15.- 4jueen Marie of
Humanla, nleco In- marriage of Cannon
Slva, the Dowager yueen who died
"ec'itly. Is f'HouMy III and growing
Queen Mario Is tho dauglitei nf th'
Duke of S.iM-Cobur. and liotha. .1
granddaughter of Q.ieen Victoria and n
, Kriglaml. She
, IVrdlnan, of I ( ,,' U.i I:
ISI'3 when he was ('town Prince.
$500,000 FOR N. Y. DEFECTIVES.
Cltlsens llemly to llullil Proposed
etv Ipxl Ittitl'in.
Albany, March 15. Individuals stand
ready to give New York State J50ii,ni)0
for tho election of buildings to be used
us ilearlng houses for mental deficients
f iRtKutui- passes the Whitney.
Wheeler bill providing for a commission
to establish such clearing houses. As
semblyman Frank Aranow, Democrat, of
New Yurie city, udlvsed the Finance and
Ways a.'.d Means committees of this fact
at a hearing on the bill to-day,
The measure would provide for a com
mission of seven to establish the clearing
nouses for the purposes of examining
persons suspected of being mentally defl
cleut and to provide proper medical
treatment and care.
No one opisised the bill, ,
.Not All KiMitHimy In KiiKlund.
Sptclal Cablt Httpatci to Tub Sr.
UiNpoN, MhtcIi 15. There seems to be
plenty of money, for Jewels In Knghtnd
us well as for shells. Four necklaces
of pearls und brilliants put up ut auction
at Christie's to-day brought a, total of I
110,110 tioi.oou).
SIMS DESCRIBES
SUBSEA BATTLESHIP!
1 lloiivily Vrinorpil, Firing Tor-
Im'iIocn a INiwci fiil FltM'j
Auxiliary.
ITS PLAN' OF ATTACK
Won I.I Lie Low in lint tic j
I'redict.o a (iei'iiiiin
Surprise.
WVsut.voToX. Murrh t5 Capt Will
iam W Slm. I'. t, .v., commander, of
tho new lnttlesMp Nevada, explained In
deta" P'e chief ch iracterlstUs of the
torpedo-battleship to which he referred
bofme the House Naval Committee yes
terday in an Interview with This Sun
to-ds.
In Ii.m testimony dipt, situs rc
mai'nv I "It is quite possible that such
ii vessel or a csvd unlike anything
now allo.it may ilail out of tho Kiel
Cai.a' and prove thu great naval surprise
of tho war.''
Ho tuid the committee lie had reason
o believe that both Hermuuy and Hreat
. tain ate building such csscls with
a sliced of 35 knots.
To-day Capt. Sims tald-
"The new Upo of eel would be a
sort of monster submarine that could
stay on the surface of the water on ac
count of Its hcay armament,
Some years ago Commander Scholleld
of the navy suggestrJ tint a battleship
bo built foi the cxcluslxc purpose of tir
ing torpedoes. Time were to be no guns
except li few torpedo defence guns, as
little upper wotks as iKct.il. lo, a speed
of approximate! Hurt) knots, a dis
placement In tin- neighhorliisul of uti.tion
tons. The wel's protection was to be
as iat as could be put In this dis
placement and so disposed as to maki
her watetllne piotcctlon practically as
sured. "While the above deta. Is limy not any
of them Is- cnt.rl coirevt. they, ex
press the getietal idea of the type of
esse. As I now remember the further
details she wa.s to luxe one miming
tower forw.ud iiu-.l one aft. both smill
in diameter, but wry thick In metal.
She was ,iUo to haw a heiiWIy armored
smoke pipe for !.er oil binning engines
and tho protective deck was to lie so
thick as pruvtlcally to injure protection
of her machinery.
i Sixteen Sunsra Torpedo Tnbrs,
"The defensive power of the ship was
to konslst solely of sixteen utuler water
toriedo tubes. The proKieed tactics of
the vessel was that she should operate,
not in the line of battle with the main
squadron, hut In such manner a to be
able to charge the enemy's line oil the
tifietiKaged side und fire her torpedoes
flolil a distance at which lilts would lie
practically nssuted. uf course the under
water body of the vessel was to have
been us well protected as possible
against the attack of torpedo' b nu
merous watertight ompartineiits.
"It may readily lie sen that If It is
practicable lo liiiil.l a wssol of this char
acter within a reasonable displacement,
that does not offer a vulnerable tat get
to gunfire, she would be a very danger
ous weapon to launch uxalnst an enemy.
"I assume the cot would be about tho
same as a battleship, or very likely con
siderably ls, as she carries no guns
with all of their equipment and ammuni
tion. Such a sltlp can lie built, but a
naval constructor would haw to be con
suited to tlnd out whether It Is mathemat
ically iHissllile to build a satisfactory
wssel on the displacement mentioned
This Is, however, purely a mathematical
problem. There can be no question that
if the qualities Indicated above can be
embodied tu a design the vessel would
, prove revolutionary in the tactics of
fleets."
.Not for llnrlinr Defence.
"Would the new tpe of ship serve for
harbor protection'."' Capt. Sims w-aa
asked.
"No, most emphatically no," he re-
plied. "The new type of ship would be
lor oeratlon with the main battle flc't
The phrase 'harlir defence' means
nothing. Money expended upon types of
vessels that have lo remain In or near
harbors until the latter .! attacked Is
money thrown awuv, wbther the shls
are monitors, submarines or any other
typo. The an all be drlvon In by a
battleship lleet adequately supplied with
sufficient cruising and torpedo wssol to
control the surface of the water within
that area.
"1 should I egret X' t-.-illiirty to see
any money cxi tided for typis of ves
sels with whb'h the commander In chief
cannot strike ut the enemy wherever he
may approach our coast ami at what
ever distance from the coast that stra
tegic considerations may dictate, There
Is only one adequate form of defence and
that In a prompt and energetic aggros,
slim against the enemy while lie Is at a
disadvantage in the op -n sea only In
this way can the torpedo strength of the
Meet be brought to bear on the enemy
upon siiccinslve nights while ho Is ap
proaching the coast
la H Fleet nxllliir.
"It would be absurd to build a great
number of destroyers If wo Intended to,
adopt purely defensive tactics In which
their great ower could not bo utilised.
"Ill rcfereme to the torpedo-battleship
suggested a hove, It should Uc.irl; be
borne in mind that this was recom
mended hy Comiiiauder Scholleld us a
tiow erf ul lleet auxiliary and nut as a
slibm.illno battleship type.
"ThN may U- made clear bj the state
ment that If Meets were composed en
tirely of such essels It Is not probihlo
that either of them could reach a de
cisive result, and this for thu simple rea
son that they could only entry a few
do7.en torpedoes apiece, while a battle
ship entries from t.non to l.sno or 1,400
powerful- pioJectlle.M, depending upon her
elro anil number of guns. Th.it is to
say that tho decision In a naval action
must ultimately be determined by tile,
gun pmief that can be bioiight to (.llr
on the enemy.
"It would bo a fundamental mistake
to sacrlllce tho battleship building pro
gramme for u particular typo cf vessel
which would be of great help us an aux
iliary to the fleet but In no sense des
tined to replace the battleship. The m
piesMoii that battleships might bo found
unnecessary on account of tin, cfllclency
of this new type would of courre I.e.
erroneous.
To Me l.ntv In Wilier.
"The toriedo-biittleslilp would be per
haps 600 feet In length and would lie so
low In the water thai with a heavy sea
running her armored decks would bo
uwauh, Tho two conning towers fore
Continued on f'ounrt Page.
PHONE CO. THREATS
IN LAWSON LETTERS
j State Senator (lives Choice of
' Free Kx (elision Service or
Coeivivc laws.
II K niEl) QVICK ACTION
'riant" to Helittlc Protests in
Albany To-day. Say herris
tutor's Friends.
! Frank II. Hethell, vloe-iircldent of the
New Votk Telephone Company, made
public without comment last nlrht n
letter written by Senator Itobert n. Law
son of Hrooklyn threatening to intro
duce coercive legislation unless the com
I paliy ag'coi! to furnlsa his home wltli
a telephone extension without nddltionnl
cost, a seemd letter Informs the com
' pany's timuiiorclul manager tlint the
1 Sen itor hH boon In touch with the com
' p.my's Albany representative and ex
' presses tho p'osumpUoii that the man-
ager win bear from "h'ndquarters be
fore long In reference to the desired
telephone extension.
Senator Luwsou Is a member of the
Thompson Joint legislative committee
which bus been Investigating tho Pub-
lie Set vice Commission and the dual
s stem subway contracts. During the
I last month 'ie Ins attracted attention
Iheeriu.so of lib, opposition to the appoint
ment of Travis II. Whitney and Charles
S. Hervey as members of the Public Set
' vice Commission for the First District.
He represents the Ninth Senatorial dis
trict and Is now serving his first term.
Huth letters, written on the official
stationery of tin; Senate, were addressed
to I!. F. Ituter local commercial man
ager of the telephone company, nt his
ofTlie, lo.tii ( lutes avenue, llrooklyn.
"rnstiir l.n vtson's First Letter.
In the tlrst letter, wiitten on Febru
ary 1 last. Senator La-vson says:
"I enclose, herewith, to be receipted,
telephone bills of October 1 and No
vember t. which I paid on December J
total amount K.M, This includes toll
charircs of 15 cents which apparently
go back to Juno It and Juno 25, I do
not understand whj these toll charges
should bo added to an October bill. In
fact. I think they must have been paid
on the July bill. Will vou Investigate
and oblige?
"1 also enclose herewith check for
$.i;7 to cover December and January
bills. 1 would ask thvt all these bills
be tecolpted and teturned to me ut 24
Woodbine street, llrooklyn.
"Now. with reference to un extension
at my home, which subject I took up
with ou during the conversation we had
on December 9. Is there no possible way
that you can arrange for an extension to
be. Installed, so as to obviate the neves- . states. It Is difficult, to tlnd any Mexl
slty of running up and down ftnlrs to ran ), or ,iewhoro In the country
answer me leiepncme at my nonie. vou
promised to take till- up and to let tne
Miow, uin up ie into ii, in' i onic ovaru
nothing from you,
"It Is a continuing nuisance to have to
run up and down stairs, day and night.
every tltno my telephone rings, and I
don't want to move It to the basement
for the reason that wo nre upstairs at
night and It Is tn"o convcnlen' to an
swer from that point, but In the day.
time U puts Mis Laws. in to a great
deal of lucotivenlems- to have to run
up and down stilrs, and at the same
time, while I desire this extension. I do
not feel as though I should have to piy
'. a year for it Neither do I want to
Introduce legislation which would com
pel vour company to supply without ad
ditional cost one extension at least to
everv subscriber deslilrg same. '
"l" will say this, however, that If you '
cannot atrange to give niu an extension
to the basement I shall bo compelled to I
throw out the service altogether and
for the beiietlt of those who come after
introduce legislation to remedy the
situation
Kindly take tills matter up wlth-th
powers that be mid see If you cannot
arrange an extension such as desired
during the current month and oblige.
"1 remain, with best wishes, cordially
and sincerely yours,
"ItoimriT It. I.vwsov."
second Letter, Sent Last Week.
The second of the btters was written
on March s last and says :
"Dkmi Mr, Itnt'TRHt I enclose here,
with check for lii. .'.' Ill payment for
February ami March accounts. Kindly
1.,.,... unit.. eH'.tlitoil anil return to too
at ;t Woodbine street. Ilrookljn. I ,,0'" " KelMntt tuy ow-n messages owr
"I spoke last evening here to one of h" wiT 1 h'1""'1 "f ,h" ,no,e
xour attorneys who r. presents your com- tlir..iirli the pr.ss reports long bo-
pany ll. Albany and I believe that he can I 1 w'w "-l"y mminco
..II...I ti... x.1lti-iltrin Im V..u V..rL- ...ttt. i til' f.U,t.
refeience to the extension that I re-'
,i..-,M.I of coo In any evei.l l, Is
going to take up tho matter and I pre-
si.n.e that vou will hear from head-
quarters before long with reference ,
same, If you do hear favorably I wish
vou would take immediate action so as
eliminate the troublesome situation
that now exists with running up and
down stairs to answer the nhone I rs- i
main, slnncerely yours.
"ItOllKItT It. I.AWSON,"
DENIAL HY LAWSON.
s,u Hi- Xlsile No ThrrHts x
Pliint," Ills Friends t'barur.
Ai.iiany, .Mardl 15 Itobert It, I.aw
son, State Senator, said lo-nlght that
the publication of private letters sent
to the New York Telephone Company on
Ilerv.'; ate to come up In i ti.e Se.mTe ,
Is a prcttv good Indlcattori of the reu
sons why they are given out."
Senator l,awson's friends Insisted Hint
publication of the i orrcspondcuce "was
a plant" laid by friends of Hov. Whit
man in an effort embarrass the
llrooklyn Senator and weaken his oppo.
sltloti to y made to-morrow to the
oonllrniutlon of the Hovernor's nominees.
' Senalor l.awsoii wus busy to-night
working on the speech he will make to
luol row uprising Whitney and Hervey,
He dictated a statement nnlch said In
pa It ;
"rite local agent of tile Vetc X',,rl
Telephone Compiuiy, II. F. Iteuter of !
I lino Hatrri avenue, Hrooklvn, In the Im-'
mediate vicinity of my borne in n vnun '
man whom I hiive known and been ,
f . tj.ti.llf ts-ltVx fell dlfillln tit.... ,
more ago he prevailed upon me to sign
a contract fur the Public Service Con" I
mission, giving me nn unlisted telephone l
that Is without publishing my name
111 (l)l' 1(M1(,
. '!'"!!!' ""u. 'w"'', "' ,"J"'.r
i.,ll ,fl in., ti,-.,..., , , iiiiniyn, in jaci, iii
tho sle'e-pltij apartmenis, und ufter a
while my number became known to a
large number of people- wno wero con-
C'OMlfiiufd on 6'ecoml Vag.
4,000 TROOPS IN MEXICO;
PERSHING LEADS FORCE;
CARRANZA DEAD, RUMOR
MEXICAN MASSES CRYING
FOR WAR WITH "GRINGOES
Inflamed by Agitators, Residents of Interior Are Ready
to Massacre Americans on Slightest Pretext
Invasion of U. S. Expected.
MoNTMicv. Mexico. March 15. 0tero nlH Torreon. all headed for the
llrmly do th masses; of the Mexican , north. Ut the total movement of troops
people believe that armed Intervention'."'' "'"'tit lO.fjuti were sent Into the
affairs' 'Tfu' IT ""Til" '
uflalrs of this country has actually oc- , Carruiu.i believes u.s much as anybody
curred that uti upheaval of reslstulies ",'"- hi Mexico that war with the Fulled
of the Invasion Is threatened to occur ' i,tu!7' 'V 1,"r"'' "e has said as tuticli
any moment. When 1, comes the mas- e fc?'-f Jfi u
sacre of most of tho comparatively I the American movement against Villa I.
few Americans remaining In Mexico I order to save himself fiom being do
and the destruction of much American i 'TM'' .';'', Iss.ll.y a worse fate. Hveti
property Is believed to be Inevitable, jnumberld ' h,H 'Uy' ' '"'."""'"l
The assurance of the Washington I
Hoviniment that tho expedition is OtirrBon Opposed Ills hlef,
purel.v punitive In Its nature means , It Is reported on high authority r.at
nothing to the average Mexican. Tho I Obregon, the new Secretary of War
mere tact mat American soldiers are
on Mexican soil Is suMlcleul to arouse
to white heat his latent hatred for the
white race that took from bis ooplo
Texas und what now comprises a rich
pun of the Southwest und Went.
Many Mexicans of the higher class
who know the temper of the Indian ele
ment of this country when aroused to
fury prefer to risk their lives In tho
Frilled States rather than in their own
laud In tills time of crisis. Hundreds
of them have crossed tbo Hlo Grands
Into Texas during the last few da.vs In
order to be out of danger when the
IK-rlod of rioting sets In hero and else
where throughout Mexico.
Notwithstanding the fact that many
people of the letter native element ex
pressed themselves as being hopeful that
the entry of ('tilted States troops will
eolvo the trotibbs of Mexico, they gay
that armed opposition to this Invading
force (.ertaln to occur.
tKlfatfiro Mir Peons.
Ambitious political ucltators arc al
ready busy spreading tho propaganda
of war against the I'nlted States anionic
the Ignorant peon clement. U roups of
excited men of the lower class are ha
rangued upon tho streets and aro urged
to take up arms against the United
States. , In tho Inflamed minds of many
people hero the bleu exists that tbo two
countries are already at war.
There Is now a temporary suspense
over what Is going to be tho final stand
nf the army of Carranxa In the face of
the armed Invasion from the. I'nlted
w)lo ll().p nol bellow that the purpose
of cHrranr.a rushing a fore of 50,000
soldiers toward tho frontier Is to make
u counter Invasion of that country.
For three days troor
train after troop
ng through Mon-
trnln has been passing
UIIM0TAM A UTPTTM
rUHlJllH n IlVJlllH
OF HIS OWN CENSOR
.
Did Not I.earn of I'eihinsr's
Move for Five Hour I'rc-
lared for Anythinir.
' Svs Antovio, T.X., March 15. H.n.
I Fortrtton btaines tile strb'l enforcement
.,r bt, Ai, .M-iu-irshlti or.lcrs for tho do.
uv i the message ami .tmcliig that the
, tn'sips bud dossed tho border reaching
him ut headquarters, It was i.eatly 5:30
nVl.ick this ufteinom vvneti rhc report
was Mashed to him nt headquarters Here
from Columbus that the
troops li.nl
i roHsi-d shortly after noon.
He said that troops at other points on
the border max have cro-sed l fore that
hour, but up to lot., to-night be s.tys he
has not la en advised
"As a matter of fat," said the Hen
cral, "1 am suffering from the strict ecu-
sorshlp I Imposed Um the newspaper
"After tho troops b.'iv.
the censol slllli w III not I
moved Inland
so strict, ex-
I V. 1,1 ' V '" ,lu' fUt""' 1 , !, 'TI.' nn;
! perylssly ''.' appreciate the value of
, Koc-fltiK -non Information secret for the
. I'V"-"'' "M'l',,l1,o,01hlV i" !u
"1,,' w" 1,r" on '' ""V 1,1 ,il
'"'"l''f our game, must not ,ct the gains
"""' h,,w " l,r"l'"' to
It Ih useb sss In ask w hat we expect
We must be prepared for anvthlug and
nothing Is certain In a movement of this
, kind.
I "My Information Is tint the C.uranza
i troops have Joined mil forces and arc
cooperating splendidly In the campaign
and we have been promised mure assist.
.nice by the Carranza troops," 1
Four troops of the Third Cavalry, I,
K, I. and M, left Fort S.mi Houston here
toolav for Fort Hlnggold, on the lower
Hlo Hratnle The Ttilrd Field Artillery
"""'' !'resu,,,aldfor Columbus. ,
VILLA BURNS ICO HOMES,
Ilestnon Properly nf xincrtcuns
In llnlil nt (' Hriimles,
111. Paso, Tex., Mardl 15 One liuu
dred homes of Americans, Including
many belonging to Mormons, weic
burned by Villa us lie rode thtmwh
Casus Hraudes en route lo the liiileuni
district, ncioidliig to Alevind.T S. Tram,
ii Mormon, w ho arrived at the Isinler to.
night with his wife.
He wild tlie Villa batnllls bullied eve. y ,
Ans'tlcan home they found altei loo'ln,
"""'V w" '" ,'a',,
Struut declared that live male mem
,",rl' " 'J1 ,'''!,!n?" fa".' ?' wv!' "v"
dered by Villa bandits while at the Cur-
I"''1 l"H r",u',,' "" ""'V1'0'' '',"! Xh" ,,"'"
P-hinro girls were taken prisoners.
, T1l" . HA "'! 'I1'.' !"LlH' ,nl'"
;;;;rni:;;,er After. ;:, i , esimgV. si'l
I 1. I. nielli rmimoil tti'.i .it t,t. Tle.l.i
men. killing some of them in the house
and others In the corral as they ran to
their horses,
After loot ng tho ranch house ami
seizing tho horses th bandits moved '
nn ... n ,., u ,w,wi .,uu,., Bviciv i
Rient, I
oe i.-icto t internment, stood out
stoutly against Carranxa grunting eon
dltlonul permission for American troop,
to entr Mexico and that the break be
,wr.'I' ' :lrr'",!ta- "' '''"I may lead to a
still further complication of the situation.
I rlriteil proclamations have been Is
sued calling upon Mil patrlotlu Mexicans
to unite In solid force lo drive the bated
grlngoes out of Mexico. So far us can
Ik lenrr.ed the documents wore iu.t
printed or circulated with the knowledge
or sanction of any Hovernment au
thority, but they nre bnvlug the ofT.vt of
Intensifying the war movement that 1
undoubtedly forming
Villa Is to-day a hero In the minds
of the Mexican people. The highest to
he lowest prulse blip f0r ),, ,i..,j ln rA,i.
Ing the American town of Columbus, N. M.
Tne fact that an American may I- within
hearing distance of the commendations
that are heaped uj"u tho head of the
bandit leader makes no difference to tho
Mexicans. Tho contempt which th aver
age Mexican now exhibits toward Ameri
cans in this country Is so open and
vicious that to rtwent It would Invite
death.
The general view Is taken here that
Villa will quietly gather around him an
army of several thousand Mghtlng men,
,rresi-rtlve of whether the Carranjia
troops Join him or not. That a move,
merit Is on foot to brine about . nnut.
I gamatlon of the Villa, Carranza and
tigming torces for tho purpose
of fighting the Invading sold lorn of tho
United States cannot bs doubted.
This plan Is living promoted without
the consent of Carranxa, although he
must have knowledge of what Is going
on In that direction. Villa and Zapata
tsith agree to It, Mid all thut now stands
In the wav of Its consummation Is tho
consent of Uen. Obregon. If be hctoos
; It means the end of Carranza and war
with the t nlted states.
WHIIin f ATI 4 0 (((
IIVUL1 UrtLL lA.UUU
'
i FROM PHILIPPINES
1
Sherman, in Senate. Frsres
( TransfeiTinjr Troops to
.Mexico.
Washinoton, March 15. A rcfolutlon
i directing Hie s!.,.-r..t,... ..oi-... ..i,i..
,,.,.. , , ' ' . '.
" "" "rn. ,n ine i aiuppines nn
rapidly as possible t1B regular tn'ipr i
now there and send them to Mexico w;-s
Introduced to-day by Senator Lawrence
. snerman of Illinois.
1 .ie resolution carries a tireamli',, r...
ollh.g that .'.ingress has pAss.-d an a "
for the Indep-ndenio of the Filipinos
within two years, and that there ate now
in service In the Islands 5,755 Philippine
Scouts Kxplalnlng his resolution Sena.
tor Sherman said ;
"I'll.' Senate recently has pass,.,! a bill
ricnsriUIng within a few .wars the ;.!,!!.
it nt the rhlllpplne pmp'e for self
government This Implies neiessarllv a
transfer of snwteignty now in the
i lilted Mates to the Philippine p. op-.
i am oppos-d to sucli a measure
however, has passed the Senate.
It,
"The Frilled States, whether wisvlj
or lltlwlselv, must mvept the coliso
qiiences resiiltlt.g from the bill. If we
rtr.ii ui steps a will product wldi-
spread discontent among the Filipinos..
If wc adhere to the declared pill pose we
must accept our lolltiqulsbiuent of pmccr
and consequently ought no longer to lie
i barged with full i esponsihllitj for tint
piotcctlon or control of tlio islands.
"The r..;r.'. Philippine Scouts remain.
lug In the Islands are natives, hut have
been trained In Fnlt.sl States nMicere-
There Is in .lddltlon a nat.ve enstabq-
laiv fur the preserv.itloi, of public order
and for local pu. poses incident to that
sirvlce. The li.l'nl enlisted men and
Uin oill.-ers of the rigttlar army of the
Fulted States an paid and maintained
by our itovenment The Philippine.
i-coins are msn inaiiiwiiiieu anil f tin in
in,, ., , , uni iiii in men
'If condltloris are nt all within bounds,
p rt,.(, ,. , nH1,11(M , ,'
ho
able, with tho scouts, the constabulary
named and such unlive forces as a pn.
teiitl.il n'lf.gciyernlng ieople cati sup
plv, to police the Islands, mulntaln order
and adequately protect life and prop,
erty without the further presence of the
otlloots and troops proposed to bo with,
drawn by this resolution,"
CARRANZA TROOPS REVOLT.
UnnBi,,,. .,r Fear. I rouble at
"
Cnliuliina May Spread.
oi'iii,as, Alls. March 15 A rem I-
lloii has broken out among I'arranra
trisipH at Cabuloiiu, eighteen miles south
of here, reports to the military authori
ties lute say.
Americans beio fear the tumps may
cio-s the border und make Irnuhic.
Hen. P Kilns I'alle,,, In coinmind of
the Cn.r.iu.i g.iiilsoi. nt Agiia l'rl"tu.
a i le ss 'he border, declared to-night that
his for.es probably would tes.n any at
letup of ("nlted States troop to enter
Mexico
Ho elair.p'M down a rigid consulship
on all messages from the I'nlted Slates
i..i.. iii,.., ii..u,,u., ,
erlck Sluiiilch, I'nlted States Consul at
ciogaies, ioxico, no lerused to exempt i
ven nenel.l miu.ii.iiri. I
First Command Kntcis at.
Columlins. Second at
Haehita.
ALL ARK KQI'IPPKl)
FOR LOXti CAMPAIGN
With .Mexican Army. Form
Is Hweepinir South to ,
(Jet Villa.
Morxf.ux (irxs to
iik rsF.nox iiaxmts
Col. Doihl Leads a Flying
Siiiail of Light
Artillery.
WAMIIMiTON. March 1.1 I nililuUlikl.
A report ha reurhed here that Urn.
t'arrama has been assassinated. Ihr re.
port rannnt be rontlrmrd In any nfnd.it
quarter.
l-:i. Pvso. Tex., March l3.--.liiiref
(larcla, Carranza (.'oiisul nn the border,
when told of the teport In Wnshington
that the First Chief had been ussaa
elmittd In Q'.ifretaro e tld:
"I have heard nothing of it and I
believe I would have been the tltut .o
have heard of such an unfortunate oc
currence. I uni Huro ".here Is notliin;
to tho report."
For a week or more seemingly sig
nificant rumors of furtln r upheavals
In Mexican politics have boon received
despite tin; rigors of the censorship
rumors which might possibly have
presaged the deposition or even ti.,
assassination of the First Chief Vcnu' -tlano
Curnmisi.
Five days ago It was announced tlic;
On. Pablo Gonzales, military govenn
of Mexico city, had gone hastily t
Quetvt.'iro, Carranxa's personal Ufr.n
quarters, for a conference with . ;
acting President. Subsequently i: vv ,
i announced Hint Hon. ( ibregnn who,.'
, M.lr ,)a(1 ,)(i,n fMnK M)m11Vi u,
i niu jo .Minister of War mid that '
!CJir?r'
"tith-Mi, -unsupported nlmr ,, ,.P.
I r:
ana iiciuaiiy n.ni iieen depused h.f
powerful chiefs, of whom ubriv. '.
rocognl7od in l. th,. !,,( forccf l
the tncsst ambitious,
Cicti. Hiitlenez. tomtnatalcr nf ' -
raru.i troop.s in northern Mexico, ram
to tin- Iwmler yestenlay mid cmfe t-
I with ' it H.ircla. in chaigo ;1, j .,
To-day 'io hnrrleil south ag.iPi.
. I-ts- night the c.irnmz.1 carrn -i
.Iiiari z wax iti-koil up for tip- nl
'PRRSHIXG LEADS HIS
F r f,n .......
. ' 'H'l J I ni hUUUi:t.
III rorce Mnkes Marl su.i.lml,
. .
1 ol.f.Mlii'S, N. M March 13 -!
, ,...,.' .... .
" " ",rM"" Aider car
troopi -pom to. night upon ,.-x!ca:i
s,, ,; ,,M tbelr way into the -Ut
, . , 1
"I""'!.'' n i c.irnp.ilgn to ovcttn ,e , .
cniiturc i ,r kin Fnuiclsco Viii.-. w
lusi Tliutsilay laldcd the town ..
'Ititnluis, N .M., where h" I.illen four
toon Aiuet leans and burned u ( . . r t c
the town.
t Tiio tn.i.n .i,hncc began :
. ...... i, .a-, mi. con, enirauiiti p,,,,, ,
tin- A tin'- t.-.i ti trieips .since s-u l ,
Ins- Sh..rl,v after no.ui the hit ir,.
ii.iiion.i: bnuiiilary line was crns-, .i ,
'he Cimiiiza fortes miller Can. Ph!..
liiitnii, ,lo:t. d ih Aiiierlcan tr('.,,.s
cooper.i:,. with them In tho cani'M -n
,. , ,,,,,i, .,,. , . . , ,'
' """"'Uly tind-t sto .,1 tin: i'.
I 1 lilted States comnilssai v trait' s .
siipplj . Ip. m., fr th i'"iin'n -u
unities ,m, t),,lt t,. milltjtv in ut ,, .
,..,;... ,;M .,,,,,...,,.,,,,. '
, 'l,,"m'" '" "" ' " 1
., "1"u"1,
, S'tnu.taiieijiislj with the crtvtuig of
fleti. Pi'lnhnirf a I'on'e of i roups iiihii'
Col. Henriie . ),N, ctossed trmn
point suitli of Haehita. N. M m
c ominous, sweeping soiun tti tbo ill.
cllrcitlon ,,s Hen. Pctshlng. lin.'i
forces .artleil a'filloiy, tien. p, i-.,..;i).
iiuiuiit.iln batteries mount, a on m.r.
C 1 I 'odd light field artillery di.iw.. .
horses. Iiotld's ttnops me nil tiiou:,to.
and will form a tl.ving seiu.iin m
Pershing Is aci niiip.inleii by inr.,ntr,
ami slower moving supply tr,
o Muus or Opposliliin,
I'l'oll. all points along the I ., t m
night report w,ro that t.:e tnuv. i.f tc.i
crossing nf Atnerii'.ii. troops li.ei i,-i-i
I ' lOiycd without llianifestatlniis o' f .
pleasure i tl the pill nf Die .Mc.X a
wlin had been 'ully infoiiued in i. ,
last few Innir.H of tho agfeeinciit .
paeon McnI. .1 anil the I'nlteil St.n,..
As i m tier of prcc .iiitlon irnop.. -n
c it riitr.'..i g.irrlsniis nt .Juap" i
Nog'l'fs w, to Inched in ihv'r bl'l i ' s
tn-lilght and all saloons vin , '.nse.s
Pine, nn, itaiiis troin (leu i'.irr;im.i
relative to th" agteiinotit be-wef,.
Mi xl md 'lie I'ti.t. I St.it .- fo:
.lol'itlv i .imp ..tiling against Vlj l
Ills Wlllil.t li.mil Were lead In ,
bol U r ailtrisons to fully Inform t, e
M',,"( I "' "ttitude uf the two Civv
eriinieiiie,
In ftl I'.
In El 1'aao by anunscmcsira bciwco
I
' I
V-eeeJy, x
