"II
rp
U ,1
o:
OTA
JUJU1CJ
Jo
" J12CELSI OR."
VOL, 84 Established 1832.
GREENVILLE, OHIO, THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1916
No 37.
? i tt'x ' n" m ""i t i
W
i - i .- .
COURT HOUStf NRVV5.
guardianship of Goldie Sheets,
MAKKIAQE L.ICEN8fcfe.
Ray Besecker, 19, farmer. Ar
canum, son of Ozro Besecker,
and Ruth McGriff , 18, Arcanum,
daughter of George McGriff.
Elmer R Beasley, 19, farmer.
PROBATE COURT.
Application filed for the ap
pointment of an administrator of
estate of Mrs. W. H. Minton.
Petition to sell real estate filed
in guardianship cf Carl Williams Twin township of &'
ana otners. . Beasley. and Ruth M, Miller, 18,
Isaac Loy was appointed guar- Monroe township, daughter of
dian of Michael Loy; bond $500. I Mar jn A. Miller.
Second and hnal account filed Solomon Miller, 61, farmer,
in estate of Wm. b. lurpen. Miami Cof 0hio and MrsMag-
A. L. Brown was appointed gie M. Bower, 43, Van Buren
guardian of Mary J. Weaver; I township.
bond $500. John P. Subler, 40. farmer, son
First account filed in guardian- of Jacob Subler, and Sarelda H.
ship of Elizabeth and Mary Sho- Brown, 31, Rossburg, daughter
. fer- of C. F. Brown.
Certificate in partition issued Wm. C. Swartz, 32, towerman,
in estate of Allen Neff. Greenville, son of Charley F.
Answer of R. D. Williams filed Swartz, and Cora M. Barker. 24,
in case of Charley Saylor, guar- Greenville, daughter of John W
dian.
Petition to sell real estate filed
in estate of Henry Stiles.
First and final account filed in
estate of Jacob Stocker.
Barker.
COMMON PLEAaG'OUKT.
NEW CASES.
20786 -Wilford Marshall by
Raymond Smith, his next friend.
Inventory and appraisement verSug Thomas McManus : on an-
, fikd in estate of Wm. Beisner. peal from docket of Squire C.
First and final account filed in Lammers.
guardianship ot Carl F. bpitler. 20787-RacheI Trager and M.
Account of final distribution R. Rex versus George and Marv
filed in estate of Lydia Bergman, j. DeCamp; to enjo'in'defendants
Joseph Ray was re-committed from entering tobacco shed, &c
ine mvton fctacs Hospital. 20788-Lulu M. Arnett versus
Second and final Pccount filed Jasper E; Fitzwater and others :
to declare a trust, quieting of ti-
mour. t ; : " ' . Ue, partition of personal property
John F. Maher was appointed and reai estate &c
... l
administrator or estate ot Mar- 26789-Joseph W. Penny ver
garet Armour; bond $2000. sus E1Ia B&ker administratrfac of
Petition for allowance of claim estate of Ezra Baker; to recover
filed by Anna Harper in estate of I $119.30.
ITT W TT I
wm. M.mrper. 20790-Lucy Masterson versus
First and final account and ac- Undrew Earharf fnr skim QO
1 ' - , w j v wvy v tJ
count of final distribution filed in damages for injuries sustained in
estate of John B. Martin. nn !l,lfnmnhl-a nwvw V
Application fiied for certificate KEUISTEK OF DEEDk
L. T. Payne to Samuel I. Smith. $2500.
53 acres in Butler township. I Minerva Richter and others to
$7500. Geortre B. Weimer. 18
Francis Baker to George R, Jackson township, $2650.
McClure, 6 acres in Greenville J. A. Shields to Herschel Jef-
township, $2000. feris, 72 acres in German town-
Peter Yount to Earl Yount, 70 ship, $11,000.
acres m Adcuns township, $1. Same to H. G. Monks, i acre
J. D. Speelman to A. L. Lee- in German townsfcip, $75.
dom, 6 acres in Patterson town- Wilbur Homan to Ethel Homan.
ship, $1250. lot 5 in Palestine, $1.
Sarah E. Hartle to Arthur Har- Lola Lipp and others to George
tie, lot 5 in Beamsville. $1. R.- McClure, 42 aJi-es in Wash-
C. F. Sheffier to S. Leighman, ington township, $7600,
40 acres in Allen township, $4500. John L. Wade to E. J. Fund-
Edward Brewer to Frances erburg, 80 acres in Adams town-
Ashman, 60 acres in Adams) ship, $11,000.
township, $5133.33. R . . - .
Henrietta Powell to Edward Chase. Ill acres in Jackson town
Brewer, 80 acres in Greenville shipf $2200.
townsnip, $auuu. Jnhn VnHa tn
I " ""VIIIH.I HOli-
Charles H.. Swartz to Amanda j cher, 1 acres in Washington
E. Simmons, part lots 31 and 32 township, $450.
in Greenville, $2250. D. W. Kreider to Lily Hecka-
Ida M. Lephart to John H. thorn, 35-100 of an acre in Frank-
Clawson, quit claim to 30 acres lin township, $1000.
in Brown township, $350. Katharine M. Vaughn to V. S.
James A. Lahey John Jones, Marker, part lots 6 and 7 in Green-
52 acres in Jackson township, ville, $3650.
$9000. Ed Trissel to H. W. Schafer.
John N. Pequignot to Josie A. 36 acres in Brown township,
Hughes, part lot 62 in Versailles, $5150. 1
$1450. Celinda Norris to Orval O. Ba-
Wm. R. Coons to Elmira Coons, ker, 80 acres in Monroe town-
three lots in Arcanum. $1. ship, $10,000.
Lester Schlechty to W. H. Shu- ;
ed the revival meeting held at
Horatio last night and report
good interest being manifested.
Our M. E. Sunday school had
an attendance yesterday of 121,'
of which number 80 were on
time. Our superintendent has
Savona.
As we have never seen any
news in the Journal from our lit
tle village we think it proper to
try and let the outside world
know that this burg is still on
the maD and as wideawake as
of transfer of property of Abra
ham Harless estate and certifi
cate issued.'
Mary L. Rush filed application
Lawrence Mauk to J. T. Buck.
ingham, lot 11 in Greenville,
$2800.
Daniel Burns to Howard S.
for certificate of transfer of real Kolp, lot 65 in Greenville, $6000.
estate in estate of W. D. Rush Warren K. Jones to Sylvinas
and certificate issued. Jones, quit claim to 59 acres in
Inventory and appraisement Monroe township, $8000.
filed in estate of Malinda Sebring. Harvey Martin tQ Ley. wd
Exceptions filed to account of acres fa
execut6r of t state of Conrad $5000
Stump - Frank M. Williams and others
Third and final account filed in to Dorsey qdt tQ
guardianship of George Battaille. m acres in Twin
Fifth account filed in guard- $4000
ianship of Mary L. C. Sheffbuch. 21am Lawrence to John B.
Order, of private sale of real es- Mitchell, 5 acres in Harrison
tate returned in trusteeship of township, $425.
Nellie Schricker. charles B Wnitley to EIam
First and final account filed in Lawrence, lot 17 in New Madi
estate of William Deubner. son, $2350.
Application filed for fho ap- SyIvina3.c. Jone3 to Harlev
pomtmert of a guardian for Lucy Ditmer, 60 acres in Monroe' town-
BeutIer' ship, $9000.
Petition for sale of real estate Juliu3 Boesd tQ HeIen
filed m guardianship of Clarence lot lm in Union
E- Dohme and others and order u- Tr a
uer Minerva Vanfleet to George W.
of sale issued. , . , , t .
Mannix, Jr.. a lot m Greenville,
Mary May.widow.of Isaac May, $500.
filedpetitionforincreaseofyears Elmira Coons" to George W.
allowance. u- OA - . .
Wanes, 30 acres m Twin town-
in: a. 1 1
nrst account meam guardian-'ohm $qw;
amy wx o u. oiuvco.
George A. Katzenberger was
George R. McClure to John H.
Michael, 50 acres- in German
appointed administrator of es- townshio. $7000.
tate of Wahelmina Requaxth : ' ni. . .
w , Margaret A. Stonerock to Cor-
$750, ' , da M. Rust, 82 acres in Jacks on
Motion filed to terminate th township, 8000. '
maker, 10 acres in Neave town
ship, $1200.
Ida M. WahltoAidrew C. Gir
ton, lot 371 in Union City, $1500.
J. A. Shumaker to Eli M. By
rum, 10 acres in Jackson town
ship, $1500.
Charles N. George and others
to Margaret Mueller, lot 23 and a
small tract in North Star, $1800.
Ora H. Bosserman and others
to Samuel McBride, 77 acres in
Adams township, $7500.
Harry E. Krick to Lina Baus-
man, part lot 977 in Greenville,
$4000.
Earl S. Myers to C. E. Trick.
60 acres in Adams township,
$7250.
J. L. Shaw to Jacob Martin,
part let 243 in Versailles. $800.
V. S. Marker to Martha Reiff.
20 acres in Butler township,
$3000.
P. G. Deubner to Norman Har
tle, 4J acres in Greenville town
ship, $1200. , '
Barshaba Carpenter to John S.
Carpenter, quit claim to 16 acres
in German township, $1.
Dinah Royer to -Noah B. Bol-
mger, 25 acres in Washington
township, $400C.
Sheriff to Cornelius Foureman,
118 and 5-10 acres in Franklin
township, $15,425.
Marguerite B. Althoff to Myr
tle Pierron, lot 35 in Yorkshire,
$1400.
J. E. Price to Catharine Robe
son, lot 975 in Greenville, $3500.
Reuben Hanna to James H.
Hannan, tot 8 in Yorkshire, $300.
Mary C. Steffeh to Jacob F.
Gephart, lot 222 in Versailles,
$1600.
H. H. Peschke to John N. Pe
quignot, lots 472 and 473 in Ver
sailles, $100.
Murray Teaford to Wallace
1
1
The Aches of House Clean
ing:.
The pain an? soreness caused
bv bruises, over-exertion and
straining during house cleaning
time are soothed away by Sloans
Liniment. No need to suffer this
agony. Just apply Sloan's Lini
ment to the sore spots, rub only
a little. In a short time the pain
leaves, you rest comfortably and
enjoy a refreshing sleep. One
grateful user writes: "Sloan's
Liniment is worth its weight in
gold." Keep a bottle on hand,
use it against all Sjoreness, Neu
ralgia and Bruises. Kills pain.
25c at your druggist. Adv
(Jetty 3 burg.
Our President has now the sup
port of Congress in his conten
tion with the German govern
ment. This will probably give
him a more rigid backbone and
also inform the Kaiser that Am
ericans are not fighting his bat
tles in his war against almost the
whole world.
We have not formulated any
program for the. celebration of
St. Patrick's Day, which cccurs
next Friday, but when the day
arrives I doubt not our people
w'll not fail to honor the day.
Many people think that day is
the proper tims tp sow cabbage
seed to insure a hardy crop of
that vegetable, and I suppose
considerable muscle will be em
ployed on that day committing
the seed to the ground as very
many people believe in getting
the most and best of everything.
P. B. Miller and wife partook
of a bounteous dinner yesterday
at the home of C. J. Miller. They
pronounced it good, and I think
it wis, as I believe they are both
good judges of things of that kind.
C. J. Miller and wife and sev
Plessinger, lot 14d2 in Greenville, er I of our young people attend-
planned a boom, and to give it others of larger size and greater
effect gave out the following mat- pretentions,
tenor consideration, viz: All pre- While the world at large is
sent on time every Sunday. G.ial, feeling the effects of the great
200 attendance on Easter Sun- war waves 3 they roll from the
day. Will this be accomplished? center of the strife, we are as
It is no impossibility, and the re- tranquil as though nothing of
cruits needed for the purpose can importance was transpiring to
easily be secured with the neces- mar the peace and happiness of
sary effort, and that there will this beautiful world
1 . I
be no failure goes without say- We noticed some signs of spring
ing. Our M. E. people have a a few days agc-the paperhang.
faculty to execute whatever is ers are getting busy, getting in
undertaken. This is now deter- supplies and otherwise making
mined upon, and it will be done, preparation for the season of the
Look and work for it and it will year when the men folks want to
be accomplished. take a vacation for a wppV m- twn
Mrs. P. B. Moul accompanied Sunday evening, March 5, we
her daughter Mildred to Coi urn- were treated to a vjry fine mis-
bus last week to locate her for a sionary program at our U. B
session at a school of oratory con- church. There were two addres
ducted there, and returned home es by visiting ladies that were of
last Friday. exceptional merit, both from an
Are we to have war with Mex- educational and instructive stand
1
ico b rom recent events it would point
seem the margin for escape is Joe Pierce is visiting relatives
very narrow and the dogs of war in Oklahoma for a fortnight
may be let loose almost any mo- J. R. Whitington moved to the
ment. But let us hope it may vicinity of Greenville on Tuesday
not , occur. The offense given of last week.
seems very grave ana calls t0r Orville Bilhimer has moved
redress, but whatever may be in-from the Simmons farm to the
flicted upon Mexico by our na- f vicinity of New Madison, and W.
tio.i, let it be punitive only, and A. Simmons, the owner, now oc-
when that is given th?m let a halt cupies the farm.
be called and there stop. But, Cliff Drew delivered his tobac-
gcod people may differ as to what co crop last week.
1
would be a r roper measure of John Weisenborn of near Celfna
punitive punishment or what has moved to a farm near New
wculd be deemed sufficient. An j Madison, which he recently pui
extreme measure would be tolchasod.
n.m'U i- i. i . 1 i
su,u emni as u uecer mem, or As we . . ,
any of them, from ever vertur- unloading. a car of household
ing again on a like expedition or goods whkh he . . 1
attempt anything similar to it. Mrs. Clara CrawW f.
I ..wv W
Let Villa be put hors de combat, southeast of town.
J A 1 .1 d Jl I J 11 11 I
ana tne ena 01 mat trouoie win Qnu0 Q amnf
ivn jl uui v,iwiicua were
SCIENCE INVENTION.
Machine For Testing Cloth.
A machine for testing the wearing
quality of cloth bus teen jiroduced in
Bradford. Kugland. It may be found
of interest to American lirnis which
niauufacture. nell or use textile fabrics.
Itelutlve weurii:ir qualities of different
pri-e of cloth may be determined by
placing tliem in tbe mac bine and iHv.
ins tliem u unlfortn uuiuIkt of ruba,
perhai 20() tacu. This makes it pos
sible to . ;ajiare o:i? kind of cloth with
its imitation or to compare ciotb sam
ples of the same character from dif
ferent mills. A piece of cloth H clamp
ed in a rlid Jaw and pusses over a
rubbing surfare former! by dull blades
set in a cylinder. This cylinder makes
one revoluiion do I; wise, then one In
the opposite direction, and this u ri.
corded by a counter us one rub. The
other end of tije cloth is clamped to a
roller on which Is i.lnced the
from which any number of weight a
can be suspended and thus put the
cloth in tension. The machine can be
driven by an electric motor. When th.
cloth is worn through the machine au
tomatically stops. Commerce Iteport.
Protection Aaainct Liahtn!
The bureau of standards, dennrfmpnr
of commi rt e. has Just i:s::ed n report
of a survey of statistical data relating
to life and nronertv hazanls fpi,.n
lightning and also of existing methods
of protection against lc.-hsning. The
field covered does not include electrical
power and signal system, but does In
clude buildings of various kinds, pre
cautions to be observed by persons in
tnunucrstonns and iuterestimr in for.
mation in regard to lightning. The
paper is. in the main, designed for the
layman, all hough some parts of it an.
of necessity rather technical. The not
resuit of the investigation ,is to show
by means of reliable statistics that the
lightning rod, when properly installed,
Is a trustworthy means of protecting
property against lightning. Copies of
the report, which is known ns wh.
nologic paper So. 00, may be procured
free from the bureau of standards,
ash ington.
Sprag For Automobila Truck.
Considerable trouble was encoun
tered by the owner of nn automohllo
delivery truck, iu an extremely hilly
country, in keeping the truck stopped
without locking the brakes, says Pop
ular Mechanics. This caused a great
deal of wear and expense, and some
' TO DRIVERS SEAT-' W
m"PlATE STEEL
gp- -Ar?
REAR riCaLt
SPRAO KtLlEVtS THE BRAKES.
person suggested that a sprag should
be insti'lled. The sketch shows the
manner in which it was attached. The
sprag rod was made of a pie -e of one
and one-quarter inch cold roiled steel,
and was hinged at its upper end ou
a C shaped bracket. The rise and fall
of the sprag was controlled' by the
driver at the front by means of a foot
button and cable. t
rest upon us.
Mar. 13.
XOB
Watch Child's Cough.
Colds, running of nose, con
tinued irritation of the mucous
membrane if neglected may mean
Catarrh later. Don't take the
Greenville shoppers last Satur
day. Among the number we no
ticed J, C. Cole, Harry Jenkin-
son, Herman Warner, Russell
Bussard, Frank Michael, and Or-
ville Viets.
Our Sunday school is progres-
StnO fm QnI txro C1A AntMirftr
cuancra-uo someining ior youri. A. ,
..... . . mg the time when it will become
Faulty Valve Cap Joints.
It would surprise many motorists to
find the great loss of compression due
to faulty valve cap Joints. To test
for leaks apply soapsuds as being
cleaner than oil, and the difficulty in
making them fairly gas tight must bo
experienced to be appreciated. After
following the usual course, thoroughly
cleaning the seating, etc., apply a fair
ly liberal dose of gold size on both
sides of the copper and asbestos wash- ,
er, but even this often fails to remedy I
the trouble. Perhaps some one can
give a better "tip." Automobile Deal-i
er and Reiirer. j
the leading school of the county.
Mar. 13. Bess.
child ! Children will not take ev
ery medicine, but they will take
Dr. King's New Discovery and
without bribing or teasing. It's, Eczema Cured or Money Re-
a sweet pleasant Tar Syrup and funded.
so elective. Just laxative enough Tnis guarantee c-oes with ev-
l -
to eliminate the waste poisons. Ury box of Dr. Hobson's Eczema
Almost the first dose helps. Al- Ointment. Makes no difference
ways prepared, no mixing or fuss- whether it's a baby, child or aged.
ing. J ust ask your druggist for No
Dr, King's New Discovery. It case the guarantee holds good.
will safeguard your child against Cut ouc this strip, go to your
serious ailments resulting from druggist, get a box of Dr. Hob-
COldS. Adv ann'e liWmo :i
"v.... kj jvwna viutiuciit, use II its
j.un..i. J 1 ;jf , ...
WANTED Families with .iris 18 u"cv"tcu anu " you are noc IUI,V
years of age or older, also young men satlshed, the druggist or maker
to learn the shoe trade. Best of wages will refund your money. Try it
paid while learning, steady work guar- iust onCGi you wiH be happilv sur
Automobile Saueaki.
One frequently hears a series of
squeaking noises when driving a car.
and upon careful examination the trou
ble cannot be found. Xeurlv alwavs
the squeaks are caused by the body
holts and nuts loosenins un a little.
The body, being an extremelv heavv
part of the car, has a natural tendency
to work loose from the chassis frame.
and for this reason secure locking
means should always be provided on
the various nuts. ropular Mechanics.
The Careful Driver.
The automatic spark advance not
only does the work accurately, but it
does not forget, says the Automobile
Dealer and Ilepairer. If a driver cives
proper attention to steering the car.
varying the throttle, applying the
brakes and watching the road ahead.
be will not have much time left tn inn.
nipulate the spark lever or talk to passengers.
anteed. Get in touch with us in re
gard to transportation charges. Ad
dress Employment Dept. , The Elbinger
Shoe Co., Lebanon, Ohio. 30m3
prised.
-Adv
Adiustina Vibrator Snrinaa. '
The owner who is using vibrator ,'
coils will find that any excessive cur- i
rent consumption is due to excessive i
tension of the vibrator springs. The (
spring adjustment shoulfj be loosened
until the motor begins to miss and
then slowly tightened airain nntU rear.
ulnr firing Is resumed.
"Folks say youngJSpendtr mar
ried money."
jw..w.uvuiiuSuii, wen, it win De a case ot a
who is running for office?" f00l and his monev soon narted '
He is coming on trippingly." His wife is suing for a separation."
Protecting Iron or Steel. ' i
Boiling an iron or steel article tn !
gallon or water to which have been add
ed four ounees of phosphoric acid and
an ounce of Iron filings will have tha
effect of giving it a blnck. noncorrod-
ln coating.
'
i
I
