Mf- .a-
Public
f.
Till: LEDGER is an adrerllalng
moillnm (hat bring! remit. Onr
rule' are consistent with clrco.
Inllnn. Hooks open to Inspection.
Til H WK.VTHKR. !
!
! Fair toflnj'j tomorrow fair t
! nnd warmer. !
.J. , .1
J."
remm KKpunr.tat.v-nn.
mil rruxuo j.eihikk-im
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 1910.
ONE COPY ONE CENT.
p
mill
In Mexico they're full of broils,
They're soothing day and night;
Tliey'ro either fighting for tho spoils,
Or spoiling for the fight.
STATE AITOIXT.UKNT.
Dr. Elizabeth Adamson of Maysvlllc,
Ky., who has been serving ns nn hr
tcrnc nt the general hospital, wns no
tified Monday of her nppolntmont ns
resident physician of tho State In
sano Asylum at Athens, O. Tlmos
Stnr. Mr. and Mrs. E. I Leo of Maysvlllc,
camo down Tuesday evening of last
week to attend tho meeting of Tan
nery Chapter. They wore guests of
Mrs. Flora Parker. Ripley Hoc.
Dr. J. A. DoJflon and wlfa of this
city, spent Sunday at Ripley with her
parents, Mr. nnd Mrs, A. 0. Scholter.
Mrs. Eva Knight of SharpBburg, Is
visiting her daughter, Mrs. AVoodson
Taulbee of East Second street.
Mrs. a. W. Walllngford of Orange
burg, was shopping In this city Wednesday.
FUNERAL OF W. (1. DARNELL.
The funeral of Mr. W. C. Marnoll,
hold Wednesday morning nt 10:30
o'clock, wob largely attonded, uulto n
numbor of out-of-town relatives and
friends being present. Tho sorvlcos
wore In charge of Dr. John Harbour of
tho First Presbyterian church, nsslst
cd by Rev. W. 11. Campbell of tho M.
H church, South. Tho Interment was
In tho family lot at Ellzavlllc.
WITHDRAWN FROM RACE.
Hazard, Ky., March 10. H. H. II.
Smith of Knott county, who somo time
ago announced ns a candidate for the
Republican nomination for Judge of
tho Court of Appeals, In n speech nt
tho courthouse In Illndman, withdrew
his name from tho raco. Judgo II. C.
Faulkner of this city, who Is also n
candidate, spoke at the samo time.
LLOYDS HETTINd O.V WAR.
Lloyds, the English Insurance firm,
la reported to bo betting two to one
that tho war will end In September,
according to a New York wire from
Miller & Company, to John L. Dunlnp
Sr Company, stock and bond brokers,
o! Louisville.
Mrs. Montgomery Hunter of Louis
ville, Ky., will arrive tonight. She
will have rooms at Mrs. Edwin Mat
thews' residence, where sho will be
pleased to see her friends.
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Spring
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
GOODYEAR
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rlm-Cuti by tho No-Nlm-Cut feature.
Slowouti liy the "On-Alt" cure.
Looie Tr.d liy many rubber tlvpti,
Ituccuritr by 1ZG braldcil pinna wire.
Punctures and Skidding by (ho double
thick AU-Wcather tread.
W an "gSgSmirt i n - - , - f
Ira i
SIMPLE, -YET ARTISTIC
arches can be hud to replaco tho
conventional doors for a surprisingly
small sum here. Or If you prefer
something more claborato you can find
It among our millwork specialties In
variety enough to suit any tasto and
nt prices which make oven tho most
oniuto quite inexpensive.
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone and Second Streets.
riione 519.
A A. McLaughlin. L. II. Bchan.
Ml
I Plowing Time j
5 Will Be Here, Just As Soon As
&
Al. f PL! 5
s ine aun dmnes not
FOUR THOUSAND MEN
PLUNGE INTO MEXICO
(JKNKRAL I'Klt.SltlXfl'S COMMAND
CROSSKS IIORDHR AT NOON
OX 1VKDNKSDAV.
No DpirlopnicnlM Are Kxpccted lTntll
After Frlilny, When Commander
Will 11m o Free Rein
San Antonio, Toxas, March 10.
Ilrlgadler aenernl John J. 1'crshlng,
with more than 4,000 troops, began the
pursuit In .Mexico yesterday of Fran
cisco Villa, whoso rtild across tho bor
der last week caused President Wil
son nnd his cabinet to decide to use
tho United States army to run him
down.
General Pershing's report that he
and his command had crossed tho In
ternational boundary line Just south of
Columbus renched General Frederick
Funston, In charge here of general
operations, lato yesterday.
Ills report served to dispel to a
great extent fenra that bad been en
tertained In some quarters that re
sistance would be offered by troops
of the do facto government. Colonel
Ucrtanl, tho commanding officer of tho
Carranza garrison nt I'alomas, on the
south side o fthc dividing line, prompt
ly Joined General 1'crshlng. Ills force
was only some 400 men, but they were
reported to have displayed willingness
and even eagerness to Join In the
chase. As a body the Mexican troops
will remain under their own com
mander, but a number of them are be
ing employed as scouts by General
Pershing.
Reports of progress in the country
wbero tho search has begun will be
made by General Pershing to General
Funston, but It Is not anticipated that
these will be frequent or deal with any
but the more Important developments.
How far Into Moxico the column has
reached was unknown here last night,
nor did General Funston appear great
ly concerned. General Pershing's
courso for the next two days Is known
at headquarters nnd not until after
Friday nrc Bharp developments ex
pected. Colonel George A. Dodd, beading n
smaller column that entered Mexico
rome distance west of Co'.umbus, was
moving In a southerly direction and
these two forces should bo within
touch of each other before the end of
tho week. Dy that time It Is expected
an Infantry support will bold tho lines
of communication along which motor
trucks for tho transportation of am
munition and supplies -i'l be oper
ated. Although tho " ship im
posed by General Kuns'r n as relaxed
last night, efforts still "i made to
keep secret tho details i-t the plan of
campaign, tho exact number of men
engaged and their actual locations.
"JIMMY" JONES, FORMER FRANK
FORT MANAGER, APPLIES
FOR RERTII HERE.
IMWNTY (OI'HT.
j Mr II, C. Cnrran filed bis commis
sion ns notary public, with J. O. Cab
illsh, Jr., na surety on bond. Oath
'taken nnd bond approved.
Tho Equitable Trust Company of
Dover, qualified ns administrator of
Carl Ward. Ilond approved nnd oath
taken.
Tho sohedulo of the nnsets and lia
bilities of G. J. Gross was produced
In court nnd filed. The assets arc
,$ft06.2fi, and liabilities $1,287.47. The
largest creditor Is .Mr. Drntuipn. Air.
13. V. Tanner Is secured by a mort
gage on $200 loan.
MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED.
For all grades of whiskies nnd
liquors. Our prices oro right. Order
t' 'lay. l'oynlz Tiro?., Ooxlngtdn. Ky i
Mrs. Urn K Pogue loft Tuesday
to visit the family of Mr. John F.
Pogue at Cincinnati.
SENTENCEJFFIRMED
And liurrj (.'nrrison, a MajNtlllo
Negro, Mill Die In the Electric
Clutlr At IMdyvllle.
(Cincinnati Tlmcs-Stur.)
The sentence of death Imposed upon
Hnrry Garrison, 20, n negro of Mays
vllle, Ky., by Circuit Court Judge
Vungblut of Newport, Ky., was afllrm
cd Wednesday by tho Court of Appeals
sitting nt Frankfort, Ky. Garrison
wos arrested Inst July on the charge
of attacking Mrs. Luella Crowder at
Oneontn, Ky. He wns captured while
attempting to cross the Ohio river.
Judgo Yungblut, nfter overruling n
motion for a new trial, sentenced Gar
rison to die in the electric chnlr In the
Eddyvllle prison, execution of the sen
tence to be mado February 11. How
ever tho case wos carried higher.
Garrison will be tho first man from
Campbell county to die in the Eddy
lllo death chnlr. Formerly, Campbell
county condemned prisoners were
hanged. The last to go to the scaf
fold In Campbell county wore Scott
Jackson and Alonzo Walling, who
were convicted of murdering Pearl
Ilryan or Grcencastle, 1ml., about
eighteen years ago. Tho headless
body of tho girl was found on a farm
near Ft. Thomn.i, Ky. Jackson and
Walling wero hanged In the Jallyard
at .Newport.
DATE OF RISIIOP ANDERSON'S
VISIT CHANGED.
Hov. J. M. I.ltoral Is Just In re
coplt of a long distance telephone mes
sage from Illshop Anderson,- snylng
that, on account of pressing engage
ments, ho would hnvo to change his
time for visiting the Third Street M
K. church, this city, from Thursdny.
March 23, to Tuesday, March 28. Those
who aro looking forward to hearing
this great sermon-lecture will note
tho change In date. Tho now date
will probably bo tho better, as It will
not Inlcrfero with the prayer meeting
services of tho other churches. Ev
ery ono can eomn to hear tho bishop
A number hnvo asked what would be
tho price of admission. Tho church
desires It to be known that tbcro will
positively bo no ehargo for admission
It Is the desire of the pastor and the
church for every one' to hear the
bishop. There will, however, bo the
usual free-will offering, to which nil
who enn nro nskod to contribute. Ho
member tho date, Tuesday, March 28
One week from next Tuesday.
WANTED.
f FRESH CANNED COCONUT I
In sanitary enns. Tho milk, tho Juicy meat and tho sniuo Identi
cal flavor used tho somo ns fresh coconut. Only 10c per can.
n
.11 'ST TAPPED Another barrel of that famous Xow Orleans Mo- W
S lasses. Gie per gallon.
To sell agency of the Cincinnati
Post for tho city of Maysvlllc. A
good business proposition, wide cir
culation. Apply to Charles A. Bramble
m
S Dinger Brns., 101 JSlSSl 3t a
SMART AND ATTRACTIVE NEW
WALLPAPER DESIGNS AT HEN-IIRICKSO.WS.
Hon. Mntt J Hennessey of Augusta,
was here Wednesday on legal busl-
ll( 3.
ST. PATRICK'S
POST CARDS
i 1 Cent Each
Jj Sec Our Racks of Dainty, New Cards. Buy and Q
Send Now.
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY S
"AT THE CORNER" 2
All tho latest patterns In wallpaper j Or. Charles W McClanahnn Is a
at CRANK & SHAFER'S. ' business visitor In Cincinnati.
-
THE HDME OF DUALITY CLOTHE 5
r
Jhe World J)s pull of People Jhat Can
Paint Pictures Real Jtrtists Jtre
pew and far etweenr
There are clothes makers galore luil I lie product of only a few stnnd out ns un
mistakably wonderful.
And if yon know anything about clothes at all, you know that Soeiely JJraud,
Stchi-Woch, Ilirsh-Wiekwiro, K. P. Fashion nnd Michaels, Stern & Co. Clothes are
the names that are looked up to.
The number of carefully dressed people who buy here and continue to buy here
season after season confirms this opinion, viz.. that the clothes we are selling are
I lie highest possible development in worth-while tailoring at tho prices.
The newest things in Shoes and Hats.
D HEBnOEaillSrGpEjIR &, CO.
i
m
m
m
M
so, be ready, Farmers, to take advantage
of the first pretty days. We are ready
for you, with a splendid line of Plows, both
Oliver and Sycrause, Points, Handles,
Shares, Mouldboards, etc. Just phone us
your wantp.
If you ueed a good Rake, Hoe, Mat
tock, Ax, Fork, or, in facf, any tool needed
on the farm, just tell it to us. We have
good ones in stock, at the right prices.
Just received, a shipment of the neat
est Wheelbarrows you ever saw. Need
one?
Yours, for good Plowing Weather,
soon.
I MIKE BROWN
"THf SQUAttf OEM lff1V" S
HimiimHHHKHHWt
Tho Maysvlllo Dasebal' tub seems
to havo all tho material tt.ey need tor
a successful season. T' i- latest re
cruit who wants to bo v lib our team
Is "Jimmy" Jones, former big leaguer
and manager of tho Frnnkfort club
Inat onnonn lMlmmuH btmiru n tmm
berth and whoro to look for one.
Maysvlllo has always treated her
players well and this year wo should
havo a winning team. Tho material
Is good and plenty to select from. We
feel suro that our team will bo n top
notchcr this season.
CHRISTIAN CHURCH SOCIAL.
On Friday evening tho young people
of the Christian church will bo given
a social by tho Endeavor Society. Be
sides tho usual onjoyablo games, there
will bo a program consisting of a
farco sermon on St. Patrick by ono of
the younger members. A dobato on
tho question. "Resolved, That Red Is
More Important Than Green," and
special music. Thoro will bo re
freshments. A god tlmo awaits all
who attend.
READING AT LIIIRARY.
CLAM CHOWDER
Hamtu Hiddoek, Hloutert, Herring, Codfish, Shrimp, Lobiten, Grabs,
Jkft YUkef, Tun Vkk, Ft Mackerel, Anckorluei lu OH, Cavslr, Oysters,
ftNFttw. &MeMU rfeki bow m4 the qnalMr flue. Send us your order.
Tonight at 8 o'clock Judgo D. W.
Gardner of Salyersvllle, Ky will give
a reading at the Public Library, Ev
ery ono Invited, no admission.
Tho friends of Mrs. D. Q. Qrlgsby
of Sardts, who Is at llayswood Hos
pital for trcntmont, will bo glad to
learn that sho Is getting along nicely
Mrs. Flora Hatfield I'ict with a
painful aceldont nt a restaurant whoro
sjio Is employed. In serving u table
her right foot twisted, spraining her
ankle.
At 6 o'clock Thursday morning the
government thermometer in Muysvlllu
showed 7 degree nbov toro, not bad
to bo ao near spring.
i in ..Mil I.. ii
Mr. and Mrs. Homer D. Hills lore
iu OloelanaU Wacidaft 1
Stylish Silks at Moderate Prices
? Silks arc Inellcr than ever and never In greater favor with Dame Fashion. Wo are told constantly that our stock of silks Is uu-
surpassed In Maysvlllo. They are right In every" sense quality, color, weave, pattern and price.
A 1 L'm (l,t. Susmn Chiffon cloth. 11m only cotton fabric that has gained entranco to our Silk Stock but Its delicate weave almost
us transparent as chiffon, its lovely colors nnd Its lustrous silk finish make it such close kin to silk wo are displaying It during this sale.
AT U!) I'KNTS Foulard In tan and white. Messallno in llesh, sand, gray.
AT ."t0 CENTS Striped, figured and brocaded silks, pongees, whlto tub silks. Challles In lovely shades and patterns havo also been
Included with silks at this price.
AT " CKNTS Whlto tub silks, pongees, figured silks In broad variety, mescaline.
AT $1,25 Taffeta, mcsgaline, cashmlro chnrmeuse. rnjah, striped shirtings, pongee, whlto Jap tub silk, whlto and flesh Italian
tub silk.
Other silks In great variety In black and colors, up to $2.23' yard
Children's Tub Frocks
Sizes 2 to C ycarB. Perhaps tho most notable fenturo Is tho diversity or styles. While you are charmed with tho daintiness of ono
little dress that has Just a hint of a skirt, so long-walsted Is It, thero beside It you see another Just tho opposlta and Just as charming
an Empire stylo. Gingham and Percales, 50c, 75c, $1.00.
They Speak For Themselves
What Is the uuo of a lot of 'words on paper when tho briefest glance at our stock of suits will Instuntly convluco you It Is unrivalled In
Maysvlllo for slzo and style. All prices from $15 to $35.
m
3 1916 I
Our prlco this week for buttcrfat,
36 cents, Maysvlllo.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
Mrs. M. 1). Strodo of Sutton street.
Is visiting her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
James II. Curtis of Lexington.
Our now Spring wallpapers nro Next Saturday will bo tho Xorty
ready for your Inspection. Como In. eighth anniversary of tho blowing up
CHANB & SHAFER. of the steamer .Magnolia,
: Cvcry Day Brings in ilew Goods j
? i? ii "i ij i l. i i it m. -I I - ni I i ni i
"uoiores Linen writing paper, inmaieu ana uomerea, in me newest snaaes, sneeis, w envelopes,
and only 25c.
"Kitty Bess" Silk Hose, the best $1 silk hose in America. When our present stock is exhausted the
price will be higher.
You will admire the new Spring Suits and Coats. $12.95 to $35.
j a pair or grey nign noois ai y 10 ucKie me reel.
1' I niindi lintn (rnm limn VnrL'o rrrnnforf tnnLaro pnlnnlnil fill Ann fif Uaiii Vni-b' mnpf nblfttiianr urn Man
Luvcijf nuio nuiii ncn luind gicaiwi inancio, ocicoicu uj uuc ui ncn iuino iiiuoi wmi unrig niniicn,
who has been considered a fashionanie society leaner.
Do your own dress making. - Buy one of the new "Acme" Adjustable Dress Forms-$5.95, $6.95, $
$12,95. f
piffle
t
-. 4"
f. .i
""Ml
I
