i i ...
L J
t:
: i ..-!
::
n a a
0TFa cTrl 'TP 'TP-
"""
9
WEATHER REPORT
OKLAHOMA Tlnirtehiy Mid Kri
eliey (nir. wiirmc-r.
TI'1-HA. Mnrrh IV Thi te-mpc-n-tare-:
Maximum AO, minimum 30.
North wintlie and eie-ier.
rROSI'Ett'TY TALK
Well, it W Indeed difficult to b ft
chronic jit ithifiitttt- That is, if you
II vp in Tuta A za in ) -fit ft iluy ml
wax butiiitt'd to $l.fift per every burrel.
VOL XI, NO. 155
THE TULSA DAILY WORLD,
t ir i' u s i) a v m " f " 1
i u l n ii J00 .(t)3Jo3 ii.ji.ij)''
19 1 G
T E N TAG K S l R I C E F I V E GENTS
n n xi n n
4,000 AMERICAN TROOPS
ARE ACROSS BORDER IN
PURSUIT OF BANDIT CHIEF
S AX ANTONIO, Texas, March l.V Gcucrul 3. PcrsMiig. with more
limn four thousand troops, licgnii the iiirull In Mexico unlay of li'iiii
tisc Villa, whose- raid anoss border lust week cause President Wilson and his
cabinet to decide to use the liiitcd States ain.y to run him down. General
Pershing's rcMirt that he and his eeiiiiiinnd hint cniKscd Hid
boundary lino. Just south of Columbus, reached General Frederick Illusion,
inohargo here of general operations, lute today. Hcpurls of progress in tin
..country where the search has horn begun will Im made by Goinrul Pi'rshiiig
lo General Illusion, hut It Is not anticipated that these will he licniicnUil oil
deal with any hut the more Important di-vcle.pnii'iils.
ANOTIIIJt fOl.l MX M IKISS.
How far Into Mexico the eolnnin had reaehed tonight wax utiUiioun here,
nor ilid (;enernl I'liiisUin appear greatly eoneerm tl. t.eueml lei shiuu s
course for the next two days Is known at headquarters and not iinlil alter
Friday are sharp developments cxccled. nl.ni' I ;como J. Ixxlil, heailiiiu
a smaller column that entered Mexico some illstaui e wet of ( (ihimhiis, alv
Is moilnit In a southerly direction and these two forces should he within
touch of each other licforc the end of the week. Ily that time it is eH-etrd
an Infantry siipKirt will hold the lilies of oiiiiniini.iillc.il alon which motor
trucks for the transportation or unimunitioii and siipi lies will he operated.
Although I lie censorship imposed liy tieneial I'ifiston was relaxed toniuhl,
efforts were still made to keep weeret the details of the plan of campaign p
the exact iiuiiiImt if men eiiKatted and their u'luil lomlions.
J(HM I) BY MI'U NS.
ticnerul I'ershlnR'fl report or his cntranee into M'Wico served to dispel,
to a (treat extent, fi ars that had hecn ciili ilniii"il in sonic ipiartcis that re
cislaiicc would lie offered hy the triHips or the de hieto i;overiim) nt. olon.-l
lieitanl. the comma ml inj( offlecr or the Carran.a garrison ut I'alomas. m the
south side or the divldiiiK line, promptly jolnnl ti. iicnil ll-rsliitic His rorcc
wus only some four hundred men, lull tin y were reported to have displayed
vtilliiicncss and even casernes to Join in Hie chase. As u hotly the Mexican,
troops will remain under their own commander, hut a nuiiiher of tinw
are heme employed as scouts hy (ieiieral l'i r-liinsc.
As t.riH-i-al rcrshiUK lias cone Into .Mexico will' onlers to overtake and
wipe out Villa and Ids oruaiiiatiitliui. unless orders (o the contiury are received
from those hlither in uuthority Hum (vncrnl Fuiision, the canipilKii that
was liesiin UmIuj will continue until Ilia W capuuetl or killed. Ihis, It was
said at (ieneral FimsturH headipKirlers tonlnht, is the Idea (.cneral Fci-sliina
ennied with him iutosm Hie line. Xo limits have tieen placed on the ficli
of operations. After the Kumpaicn Is well under way. It was pointed out,
' circumstances may 11110 restrictions, hut Ju.t notv tin- 11-iops are preparc.l
to (to any where to carry out the president orders,
yr. News that the expedition was nmler way reduced, to a marked ilcmee,
' teii'-ion that was evidential urmy headiiiarl rs during the curlier part of ihe
day, hut minor liiwip movements 11 nd other details or oritaniwitlou delayed,
the start. (;enerul l-'uiisloii reunrded the slluition opliinlsiicully. He ap
IMiired to have no doubts that the men ill the fle'd would render Rood ac
counts of themselves hi the work undertaken and he was hi. petal that Villi
. would lie forced Into a comer at an
2(1,(1110 In Iteservc,
- There are now available in this de
portment for operulioiiH In Mexico
more than twenty Hiuuxand troop
anil If the plans for recruiting tho
companion to full strength are carried
out this number will, it is expected,
be quickly Increased. Cavalry posts
have been relieved by Infantry in
juust cases in order to furnish a more
i uioiiile force for the pursuit of Villa
although In the expedition that went
in lodav there is a considerrble foreo
of artillery which can bo reinforced
at any time by severul more batteries
that now are' held on the American
side within easy distance of the bor
der If the exact whereabouts of Villa
ore known at army headquarters the
fact has net been disclosed. Generally
It is believed thiit he lias moved
southward towards the (Suerrero dis
trict in the foothills of tho Sierra
Madre, but reports from Mexican
sources indicate, that the de facto
coveniinent troops will do their best
to turn lilm northward towards the
ndvanclntf American columns. Hands
affiliated with Villa In other parts of
t northern Mexico have not indicated
"their intentions hut brisk activity on
their tnit will be no surprise to the
American nnnv officers. It Is antici
pated that in chasitiK Villa these
bunds will hnve to bo met from time
to time and enKaited.
1 so Wireless Outfit
There was nothing In the day"s re
ports that indicated that the defection
of the small Carranza garrison had
been followed by other covcrnment
troc ps and the action Colonel ller
tatii's troops In Joining tho American
colony supported the b. lief that most
of C'arrnnza'8 forces would support
1, t in In his promise of eo-operatlon.
Kor eomuiunicatlnx with Oeneral
Funston, Oeneral Pershing has taken
with him a wireless set. The field
radiograms. It Is expected, will bo re.
ctlvod nt the El I'aso station and for
warded here.
The aeroplane squadron that was
sent from here is yet on the Amer
ican side of the line but it is probable
a part of the cifc'ht machines will go
forward, perhaps tomorrow. It was
the intention of Oeneral Pershing to
use them extensively for scouting.
Pershing's Staff.
V'or military reasons the personnel
of Oeneral Pershing's organization
5lrus withheld hut the formation of
his staff was announced us follows:
Chief of stuff, Lieut. Con. De Rosey
Cabell, Tenth cavalry; adjutant, MaJ.
John I,. Hines, adjutant general of
Kin nth brigade; asistant chief of
staff, Capt. Wilson 11. llurtt, Twentieth
infantry; Intelligence officer, Col.
I.uclen O. Berry, Fourth field artil
lery; quartermaster, Maj. John V.
.Madden, quartermaster's corps; sur
geon at base. Lieut. Col. Kuclld K.
Frlck. medlcul corps; commander of
base, MaJ. William 11. Sample,
Twentieth Infantry: aides, Lieut.
James L. Collins, Kleventli cavalry;
and Lieut. Murtin C. Hhallenberger,
, Sixteenth infantry; surgeon MaJ. Jere
H rti.ctont pnirliieer. Mai. l.vtln
Brown; signal officer, Capt. Hanson
B, Black. (
early dale.
Wealthy Woman
Adopts Priest
to Be Her Son
NhW OKLKA.VS, March 15.
Announcement was niuce here
today that Mrs. Louise ('.
Thorn. is, prominent socially and
reputed to be one of the wealth
iest women in I lie south, hud
adopted as her s'n mid heir
l-'atlier Peter Scotti, lormerly
chancellor of the Catholic dio
cese of New Orleans. Mrs.
Thomas is 7S years old and had
no children. She is the widow of
Stanley O. Thomas, who was onti
of the south'! most pi eminent
cotton factors and left an estate
worth several million dollars,
l-'athcr Heotli is about 4u years
old und at one time was rector or
it. Louis Cuthcdr.il and St.
.Mary's church here.
Tho adoption papers were filed
with the recorder of deeds ill
St. Louis, Mo., August 23. 191r.
according to a dispatch fiom that
city, but the adoption was not
generally known here until di
vulged hv a relative today. Mrs.
Thomas "declined to discuss the
mutter. Sho lias given large sums
to local educational and charit
able institutions.
HEMORRHAGE KILLS
MARCUS C0RDEMUS
Marcus Cordcmus, uged 60, died
suddenly yesterday afternoon in his
room ut 316 Kast First street, follow
Iub a severe hemorrhage. He was
aeon to fall on tho otd in his room by
a domestic who Immediately sum
moned medical aid, but he died within
a few minutes and before a doctor
arrived.
An Inquest was held last night and
a verdict of death by hemorrhage was
returned by the coroners' Jusy. Cor
dcrmiH had made his home in this city
lor some time but little Is known of
him. He is survived by a brother,
Ted, who resides here. Arrangements
for thej funerul have not yet been
made.
lilcao Man Identified.
CHICAUO, March 15. James D.
Hunter, who as found with a frec
tured skull here yesterday and died
later nt the county hopsltal, wa
Identified today as a former member
of t lie general merchandise firm of
Hunter Brothers of Memphis. A son.
Hex Ollbert Hunter, who is employed
us checker In a theater here, was
found by the police und said he und
bis mother had become estranged
from th father. Mrs. Hunter is srow
"a hair dresser in Salt Lake City, 'the
son said. Hunter will be buried here.
United States Troops as They Will Appear in Mexico
.
While Chasing the Elusive Bandit Chief, Francisco Villa
I -'-'$jpr ' ' " ' ' ' I
111
, ,. ' " t
i3CY-z.l S ClV9Z,fiY., BCLOW: - VlL&tSTSi. TfZOOFtS JMonsjQ N ri-'crf saevcr.;
The tup picture shows Colonel Slocum's traopr, pursuing Villishi bandits followimt tiieir raul on Coliiinhiis,
X, M., a few days ago. It is country such us shown in tho picture which the American soldiers who went Into Mex
ico yesterday will have to traverse.
MAY REOPEN CANAL
MIDDLE NEXT MONTH
Official Predictit.ii That
Waterway Will He
Kendy by That Time.
G0ETHALS TO QUIT
JiCpairiiio; of JMtclr After
Slides Is Clreat Engi
neering Feat.
WASHINGTON, March 15. An
official prediction that the
r'anama canal will be reopened by
April 15 for the pasage of deep draft
vessels was announced tonight by the
war department.
Conditions in Oaillard cut, scene of
the principal eurth movement which
blocked the waterway last fall, are
regarded as Justifying the forecast.
Colonel Harding, uctlng governor of
the canul zone, telegraphed tho war
department today as follows:
"Conditions In Galllard cut justify
prediction that canal will be available
for ships of thirty-foot draft on April
15, Bubjcct to probablo temporary de
lays thereafter to meet exigencies of
dredging fleet In completing canal to
full width and depth and In removing
shoals that may possibly develop."
Major General Ooethals, governor
of the canal zone. Is expected to re
offer his resignation as soon as deep
water traffic is again moving through
the canal. He withdrew his recpiest
to be retired when the earth slides
set him a new task. General Ooethals
was In Washington today and Colonel
Hurdlng's telegram was so positive
that It was thought probable the
governor would not return to tho
canal zone at all. Colonel Harding
will succeed him.
(Jreut KnglnccrliiK Feat.
Reopening of the great waterway Is
regarded us an engineeflng feat sec
ond only to the construction of the
canal. Millions of tons of rock and
earth have been torn out of tho col
lapsed excavations. New dredges of
a size and capacity never before em
ployed have labored night and duy
for months. Bteum shovels have
driven their way into the obstructions
(Continued cn Page Two.)
MR, DOWNING GETS
BUSY ON SEWERS
Plans, at Tlis Direction, Al
ready Made for liell
view District.
STORM SEWERS, TOO
Tulsa Now Will Take Place
Among Best Drained
Cities of State.
Al.Tllortill the $100,000 bond is
sue for construction of uddlllonul
and long needed sewer systems in
Tulsu was approved only Inst Tuesday
by Attorney-General S. Prince l'ree
llng, plans already have been pre
pared by direction of C. M. Down
ing, commissioner of streets und pub
lic property, for the long contemplat
ed drainage; system for Belivlew.
Commissioner Downing also has di
rected that plana he prepared ut once
for the big storm sewer system ex
tending from t'rntral park through
Factory. Glass Factory, I lackathoine,
Abdo, Holmes and Wells additions,
and this energetic official likewise or
dered plans for the storm sewer to
connect the storm sewer at Fifteenth
street and Boston avenue to the end
of the storm sewer at Kleventh street
and the Midland Valley subway.
Plans of the Belivlew Improve
ment will be presented to the board
of commissioners tomorrow for ap
proval, utterw hich it is thought bids
will be udvertised for at once. If this
Is done, und there is no doubt that it
will lie, actual construction of the
system should l-i-kln in thirty days.
Have Waited lmpaitcntly.
Residents of Belivlew for tho
part four years have clamored and
petitioned for their sewer system, but
to no avail. They voted the neces
sary bonds and yet huve been en
dangered hy typhoid fever epidemic's
and other diseases, all because tiny
were unuhle to properly drain their
property. It was In consideration of
all this that Mr. Downing gave his
attention first to this long neglected
district, and through his personal di
rection in tho future it is confidently
thought a compurutlvely brief period
' "IX'I
(Continued on Page Two.)
ALL HARRIS LEADERS
ARE 'LEFT AT HOME'
Not One of Those Uehind
Him Named as a County
Delegate.
'TIS A GREAT VICTORY
With the Leadiiiv: Men
(lone Down in Defeat,
Rest Will Me Kasv.
ici:qi n:st'.T i
A. I.. Disney
Herb House
Tains I'.lxliy
Lawyer Kiinyiin
Alva McDonald
Frank Gillette
Jake Hamuli
Yiii!.i-. j. j. M'-tirnw won by an
T overwhelming vole in Ihe pre
cinct caucuses held throughout tho
state Tuesday there is much signifi
cance attached to the fact that every
one of the Harris cuinnalgn managers
was defeated In his own home pre
cincts. While this Is true in Tulsa
It ulso applies to every precinct
throughout the state.
A. 1.. Disney, llerh House. Tains.
Rlxbv and lawyer Itunyar, all of
Murkogee, bad chnrise of the Harris
campaign there. They were nil "left
at home" by the voters in the Tues
day caucuses. The defeat of liixby is
especially significant as he is editor
of the Muskogee Phoenix and tho
support of his paper was given to tin
Harris crew. ISIxby was defeated fur
delegate to the county convention hy
almost a three to one vote.
This quartet confined their mani
pulations to the east side of the slate
Those who delivered their energy
for Harris on the west side met siml
lar defeat. Alva McDouuld, a Harris
wheelhorse. W;is turned down by his
own people at l.l Iteno. They signified
by a big vole thai they did not want
McDonald to represent them in the
countv convection to be held next
Sul urday.
Frank Gillette, ulso of Fl Reno, was
(Continued on Pae Two.)
AMERICANS ARE OPENLY
INSULTED DY MEXICANS
ON STREETS OF JUAREZ
JI AIEI:., .March I.",. General (.a ilia t ai'rana commuudiT here, ' lid to
night that he hud received InM ructions from 41 ral Oluvg , Carraii.a's
minister of war, to order nil 1 roups in his district to co-operate In every way
with the American cvpc illilonai v force. .liuu'V is iiulet on Hie surface, but
Americans met with insults in some parts of the town and tie-re was cvii
deuce of a strong iimlcrciirrciil of ho-li'lly towards the l ulled States.
There arc about one thousand Hoops in this town and iciv.rlv ad vvim-c
con lined to luirracks today, ibcy have Is-cu forbidden by General ci'ivin-P
to frcepicnl saloons. Nothing stronger than beer Is m iiniilcii to lie sold ml
the- town.
GIM ltl. G WIIIVS STITIAIK.VI'.
Ill a statement Issued late today General Gavira slid:
".My .soldiers are absolutely lo.val and there is no ebinm 1 of any out
breaks in this section. .1 h.ive received reports that t'e leuie-l lo.as has hi m
murdered by the troops at tiinaa und am ftim; to 11. i In comoiiiiiie-atii. k
with that town, but so fur have tailed, i'lie-rc is no rca-ii vvlt.tie vir t 11 .11 1
hostility low aril Amciicaiis on the part of loyal Mi-tii-inis and 1 have- iissiir-;
anies that all tr.sips i i my district will ac t in full coiu-ord uitli the Aiuci
leans who arc pursuing ilia. I am In complete conlrol of tie- slliialiiiij
here."
CLOSING IN ON VII. l.l.
General Gutierrez, left here today for Chihuahua to lake command of 1.1117
of five columns ol I J, 00(1 men each
be closing In oil ViHii In the Casus Gi nudes region. General Itcvtam. vvlui
has Is e n in command of Ihe giii-risem ut I'alomas, has gone to Giimuii. ac I
cording to General Gavira, and will direct the oper.Hloos of another of the,
five columns from that Milnt. t
In spile of General Gav Ira's assurances their was pMinlt, visible lien1
today a fel ling of growing uiiciisincss among the- Vmcricaii residents. Most,
of those who are hi business he-re are spciiilin.; uUlils oil tin- Ann 1 lean sid.
Fxpie-ssiiiiis of hostility by Mexicans have thus far been confined ciilii-e .(
to tile civil population. Numerous iiisinnccs were- reported vihcre Americans,
sMfially in the outlying sections, noticed Mexicans -pitting on the pave
ment as they upproiichcd, a supreme Insult In this i-otuilr.
The street cars between Juarez nm 1)1 Paso arc running In spite of the
reports throiigliott the day that they were to he discontinue il.
RAW SUGAR GOES
TO HIGHEST PRICE
MOW VOItK, March 15. As a re
sult of heavy buying chiefly fur for
eign account, the price of raw sugar
was advanced today to tin; highest
level of the present upward move
ment. Cuban ceiitrlgiigal sold at
J 5.7 J '11 5.77 at which price about 4(10,.
000 barrels were sold to local lei iners
for April und May shipment. Kuro-pe-an
ope-rators purchased about six
thousand tons in fuhu to be ex-changi-d
for a similar amount of
granulated here.
Kx porters also bought about twelve
thousand tons of the raw product In
this market ut "..S'J '11 5.H0. It was
said that some sales were made; at
0 cents.
The strung tone of the market leel
local refiners to believe, judging from
the large advance business dime that
t here would be u further advance! in
granulated.
F.XPOHT I H.I Hi:s SHOW A GAIN.
Imports
Also lucre-use (ve-r
Period a Vcar Ago.
WASHINGTON. March 1 5, Janu
ary foreign trade figures assembled
today by the depurttni nl of commerce
put the month's exports at $;i::l.00O.
(100, exceeding hy $(12,000,000 the to
tal for the same inonllis a year ago.
Imports reached i 1 SI. 000, not) com
pared with $ 1 1!!', 000, 000 a year ago.
The- .se-ve-n months ending with
January saw exports valued at more
than two billion dollars leave the
country, while imports for the same
period tot. 1 lei considerably mure than
one billion.
January's exports were chiefly
manufactured proelui-ls. Foodstuffs
was second 011 Ihe list. Haw mate-rials
formed the chief items of Import.
Gnat Hritain in January took $127.
0(10,000 worth of American goods.
France- was see-olid with $1 1,000,000
and Italy third with $l'!.000.00a. All
of Sooth America took $13,000,000 of
American products. Asia took $11,
000.000. Imports from tile I'lUtcil Kingdom
were worth $24,000,000. South Ameri
ca shipped uoods to the I'nited States
worth $to, (Mill, 0110. Asia furnished
$;r.', eon. 000 and the whole of Kurope
sent $47,000,000 worth.
PHOM I V 10 NT PFOPl.i: MUtltlFD.
Mr. ami Mrs. (I. It. Tin r Will Make
Their I'liture Home In Omaha.
A very pretty wedding occurred
ye.sterilay morning, when o. It. Tan
ner of this city was married to Miss
Corinne I'.ryuti. also of Tulsu. The
ceremonv was performed by Kever
etiei Me-Connell of Tlgeft Memorial M.
10. church.
Mr. 11. It. Tanner the bridegroom,
eume he-re about a year ago from
Saskatoon. Canada, und established
the business known as the Tulsa
(Jas Mantle eonipHtiy. Kc'cently the
SHiue line of business was trans
ferred to (una ha. Neb,, from Saska
toon. Miss Iltyuti came here about two
years ago und has since held a re
sponsible position. She attended Ok
lahoma university at Norman and
later tia)k a business course at the
A. & M. roltege ut Slllwater before
coming here.
Mr. and Mrs. Tanner left this morn,
ing for their future home in Omaha,
traveling overland In their ear.
Officially Speaking,
WASH INci'loN, March 15. Sec re
tary Itaker offic ially announced 'ut 10
o'clolk tonight that American troops
hud crossed the border, lie said Car
ranza forces were co-operating in
the pursuit of Villa.
who are dee I ii'.-el by Gem-nil Gavira to
M'GRAW GIVEN 700
OF IHE DELEGATES
Majority Is Sufficient
Easily ( 'ontrol State
Convention.
to
Muskogee, Supposed Harris
Stronghold, Votes
Against Him.
OKLAHOMA CITV, March 15.
As reports come In from tho
various counties to McGtuw head
(Uiuters it is clearly certain that tho
next national eommiiteeimiii will b-
J. J. McGravv. Kepotts Inille.-ite that
each of the following counties will
have practn-nlly solid .M-i:n,v elclc
kn lions in the slate convention:
Noble, Kay. Garflelel, Alfalfa.
Wooilwatil, Weioils, Texas, Heavier,
Custer, Lincoln, I'ayne, Creek. Tulsa,
McCl.iln, Osage-, I'awiieo, Washington,
Nowata, Canadian, Comanche, e.'ot
ion, Oklahoma, Cimarron, Seminole,
Grunt, Major, Nowata, Oktuskee
Grady.
In udditlon to these counties the
latest re-port from I'olt -iwutondo
county shows a suostantial bad for
Me ( iravv with country precincts
which are giving him xtron sup
port to hear from. In Caddo county,
ciuimod by Harris, the tight is close,
there being fifty ib-legales each for
tlie contestants wi'h 24 nirnl dele
gates to hear lroui.
Itoports from MuskoKce show sixty
delegates In the city r Muskogee of
which 17 or.ly are contrnth-d bv Jtr,
Harris. The total delegutlon Is Ml.
This beat figures show MeGriw 77,
Harris Dei. L. M. Disney, Tunis ltl
by. Herb House, C. A. Co-dc, leading
supporters of Harris, failed to et
on the iliiealton.
It is pra.-tically assured
that t'uliv
si v e n hundred of the d.
egates to
the state convention will
be favor-
aide to McOriivv.
The icpoits from every coiner of
(he state are gratifying In that the
people of Oklahoma have shown a
firm disposition to rid tin- party of
the leade-rship e f a man who c-hoso
as his clo.si-si udvisors und Iravehn,
companions in this eunip.-tlgn men
of the character of Alva McDonald.
I.. G. Disney, John Clavpool ail I
Amos Kwtng
BRANDEIS HEARING
IS NOW ADJOURNED
WASHINGTON. March 15.-Th-
senate Judiciary subcommittee consid
ering tho nomination of Louis D.
tiraiidcis to the supreme court com
pleted its public hearing today and
adjourned until .March 24 when II
Is expected a vote on the recommen
dation to t lie full committee may bu
reached.
Departing from senate precedc-r,
the subcommittee's Inquiry has been
conducted publicly and since tho
hearings h-g.in I'ebriiurv s, many w it
nesses have been heard bold for und
against confirmation. A week ago
t lie committee closed the taking of
testimony, but the heatings were re
opened tit the request cf ptcU-YUnts
uvUnsi the uonitiuciiuu.
