VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXIL
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, MARCH 1G, 101 G.
'UMD10R 88.
MNIMOUS VOTE
BY SENATORS 10
INCREASE ARMY
Rei'miling Unices All Over the
Country Have Been Upcncd
and Indications Are That Men
Arc Flocking to Colors.
lELPFROM GARAfJZAASSURED
icn. I'unston's Instructions, It
Is Said, H'ovcr Possibility of
Hostile Demonstration by
Troops of tbe De Facto Gov
crnment. a hihclon, .Man li I.". Willi.- Hip war
lllid stale ilcpni- tni-ms welp busy with
l;ir matter loilav Congicss completed
lir work ,fc vrli'rclm. Oip Sennln
urn ii ilc- i I'm Iipii!-p pmiI m Inn prn-
iding fm ai' iii r,i.p uf tin' ip'."ilnr niiny
loptoxlnvitel. !J"i'm lighting Iroops
ll'lu i v.i " p ilp.nitp nml Hip i.'i sPiin-
)i m Hip rli.i iiiii r miIci! unanimously
I'' Ilic ic nl .fin
di ii. hi General M'fnln liiul acted
In i wnl Us for tinnl passage of the
" l Hun I inlii unlets wired lust nielli
p Miltiii.. ulli' i .i'I nvrr the country
'lirli liiiM- pi il.rpil for months were
oopcucd Hi ii en n:. Itcfnto. thn Sen-
lite vntpil r ct.n Imiiilrpil nirn already
tad lis-pii prrol'ed
T noflbia1 irputt: vhhI luospoi'tlvo te
mps wr -r PoiKn.i; 'n i nlors nil incp the
land lippiilnipn, oll'ninls wpip elated.
Pf IntP a ii rpi t .Ming li.i Inggpd, tho
Inp or pmspprli . ollli InK n, making
I d-fllocl' lu oH.no mpii for iIip regulars.
I! port"- from IIip border of Hip po
'iifitUin of the i iirntnst.i troops with
lr era! Fen-hing . foi-pp sprverl to re
rp nnxirtv of ilppat t iiipiiI nffiplnls
liwr thp nosildlltv 1 1 1 : 1 Hip troops of
etc facto government might oppose
111 movement apiosB Hip border, ro-
ardle.-s of what General Carranzn
lii'n.-rlf might sav Officers hero liavo
itii in tin movements of troops on
p Aniprk n side tin effort by Optipnil
I'onstou to guard lsulnst the jmssl-
mit of sin 1- n development. It Is
ml good militiiry judgment, it is
niilril out, to lake pvnry possible
" tautinn, irrespective of Hip dlpln-
In itii nio ps thul may ho in progress,
i Hied ntl situation.
Thpro l reason to IipIIpvp that Ccn
'I Funston r Instructions mrr thp
Imsstbility of hntilc ili-niim.'-liatiiiiiH
troops of the 1p fai-tii gn el nninnt
that iicnt there would I"" now amr
'eaihirg prohlcms brforp the
pA i huston gn prnniPiit.
U.SItOKNE AC(IUITTEI)
01" PERJURY CHARGE
mirt Olrcitn 'I'hnt Indictment nKninsI
M"ir Sue Wnrilen lie Not Mistnlnnl.
U 111 tr Plains, Mairh 1.'i.-Tlinina.i Mott
I'o-born, prison lcformcr. Harvard prtad-
lialp, twice inavor of Auburn, X. V., and
funnel' warden of Kins Slnff, was
quitted of Hip chnrRn of perjury by
Irlirection of .lunicc Arthur S. Tompkins
to a jury In the Westchester county
Bupreme eoutt hpre to-day.
Justice Tompkins, in a Ions opinion,
held that Dr. K,idolph Dlcdllns, a State
prison commissioner, was without au
thority under the Htate prisons law, when
lie Insestisated, slnsle-handcd, Osborno's
Rilmlni nation of Sins Sins. It was be-
lr Dlcdllns tbat Osbonip last
rii toner committed the allesed perjury
swim lis, as flint seil, that he was
"i o ' 1'iionledSp of ceitaln cases if
ii in aht
.1 ' e Tompkins held in his opinion
urn Hierr was no lawful perjury com-
uitpil 1 v Oshorne, innmiich ns Hm
wsidrn 'ad n rlsht to keep ln lolnlu
fhr Pledse whii-li he hnd clven lo tlio
juiltv Ponl' Is who had confessed to
mm 'heir immurn'lu
New Yoik, March 15. Thomas Mott
fiborne issued a statement hern to-tilcht
In which lie said tho nxUon of JusUce
Irompklns In diiulsslns tho perjury In-
-iKtuient asainst him proved what lie
li.nl contended all along, "Uiat it was a
prrtciutiun. not a prosecution." to
kvhlch he wns helns subjected.
Mr. Osborne i-ald also the decision con
firmed his view that "An essential part
if the foundation of a successful ad
ministration of prisons Is thn rcspoct of
llio inmates for H11 warden "
"islnlns N V, Mnnh 10. Tho ne.ws
i at Hie Indictment asainst formor 'War-
1 ii Thomas Mott OKhorno had been rtls-
ism-'I nil" srce.tert at Sins Sins by 0110
if the noisiest demonstrations In the hls-
ory of thn prison. "The Itullctln," a
cekly paper edited by convicts, sot out
liu "extra" edlllon In red ink and 1.CT0
if the. prison Inmates who iinscmblcd In
I ho mess hall loudly applauded speeches
iv Wnrdeu Klrthwny and Governor Spry
f I tab.
llANUARY FOREIGN
TRADE SHOWS INCREASE
Import i;eril Tlmur of .liinnnry, IP IT.,
by 9r.VUO,(MHI,
Washing!"" Match 13. -January for-
i i Kit traao lisurcs iicmiii lo-u.iy oy
I ho department of commerce put tho
iionth'a exports nt $S.J,),o99, exceeding
i JiB.'O.WU tlio tola! for tho same month
i year ago. Itnpoits aaehed $181,000,000
oinparwl with lfc!,W''.0 n year ago.
The seven months ending with January
nn exports valuod at inuru than two
"Inn dollars leave thn country, while
polls for the mine period totalled con-
n( i in niom tnnn one Pinion.
'Mr lenders "f tbe "ads" knnw wlioth-
to da Is thn pert or all days on
Ltd h tu make tlit pun.hui.c-.
GENERAL PERSHING
WITH 4,000 MEN NOW
ON MEXICAN SOIL
The Pursuit of Villa to His Capture or Death Has
Been Begun Carranza Forces at Once Join
American Command Col. Dock! Heads a
Smaller Invading- Column Which Crosses
International Boundary West of Columbus.
San Aiiioiiio, Tp.v , March lf,.lisa-dler-Gonern!
John .1. Feishlng. with mote
Hi. in four Ihoiisaiiil Hoops, 1o-;i n tlin
pursuit in .Mp.nIi-o to-il.iv of Kraiicl.spo
VIIU, whoso r.,1,1 at-ioss thp liorili r last
pp; rauspil Vrpsicloiit W'IIsiom ami hs
pahiiml to tlcplilo to iim; t lies Utiitei! Stall's
aniiv to 1-1 1 i him ilown
UptiPial I'lTshlnu's ri'pni t Hint ho ami
his ifiiiiin.inil hail ctispil Hi,. ,t,-i nation
al lioninl.iiy lino J u j c ninth of ( 'olnnihiis
r ii.-lir.J (ipucral I 'i pilprlck I'nnstoii, in
I'hniKo lu'io of kpir'I.iI oppratloiiM latp
to-day.
Ills ropoit .spi-piI to illnpp to n i;i-pal
rvtput fears Hint hinl l.ppn entei laltnil
In soino uiiartprs, lhat roslslanip Woulil
bo offered by the. troops nf Hip dp fneio
KoveniniPiit. Col. llerlanl. Hip i-omtii.iml-
mi. ouirer 01 tne 1 arrnuza nnrilMin al
I'alomns, 011 Hie south side of Hie illvid-
Iin; line, promptly .Kilned (lpnpr.il IVrsh-
In;.-. His forip was only mine fi men,
but tiiey weip rpported to havp display-
ed wllnKnes ami een eiiceruess to
.ioin In tlio chaf-e. As u body the Mexi-
can troops will remain under their own1
eommamler, but :i number of them are
beins employed as senilis by ileiierai
Pershlnc.
Keporls of progress In Hip lonnirv
where the spiire.h has been becun will
he made, by General Pershlntr to Ceneral
h'unslon. but it is not anticipated that
these will be frequent or ileal with an
hut the more important de elopmpiits.
llow far Into .fexlco the column has
reiiched was unknown here to-nlht, nor,
did General Kmi.stnii appear yreallv emi-
ceine.1. Gencial I'ershins cutse fo,-,a
U10 next two days is known at head.
(limrlcrs and not until iiflT t'ndav an;
sharp developments expected.
I'olonel Georce A. Hod,), headlnc .1
smaller. colunui Hint entered Mexico some
dlstanco west of "olumbus, also Is mov
Inu in a southerly direction and those two
forces should be within touch of each
other Ixifore the end of the week I'.y that
time It is expected nn infantry .support
" urn 1110 lines 01 commiinicntiun alonii
which motor trucks for tho transport;!-
tion of ammunition and supplies will belfjest to turn him northward toward the
operated. Although the censorship im
posod by General Kunstou was relaxed
to-idpht, efforts still were made to keep
secret tlio details of the plan of cam
paign, the exact number of men eueuRed,
and their actual locations.
Sonera! I'ershlus- has rouo Into Mexico
wiui oroers 10 overtAKn and wipe ont.be met with from time to tlmo and en
Villa and his organization. I'tiless ordeis cnRcd.
INVADING ARMY
ENTERS BARREN,
DESOLATE COUNTRY
Kl J'aso. Tex-., March 13. The point 1
chosen for the entrancu for the puni
tive expedition into Mexico is at the
verso of a drears', desolate plain in
habited principally by coyotes and
prairie (loss, swept by sand storms
and devoid of M'setation except the
cactus.
For at least ;t'J miles the United
States troops must make their way
across this desert. Tbev then i-enel,
thn lowest r.MiKc of the Sierra Madre
mountains, risins to a helsht of .tOOO
lo 11,500 feet, broken nnd twisted Into
ill manner of fantastic, shapes. Lone
ly, half civilized ranchmen are found
hero and there in tho valloys where
there aro Infrequent water holes and
subsisting almost entirely on beef.
Thero are no loads of fujy kind In
all this resion. An ancient path known
as the. "Smusfflcrs Trail," Is used by
such traffic as passes through. The
expeditionary force must carry all its
own provisions nnd water.
After tlshtlns Its way against nature,
B-sslsted by whatovor guerrilla troops
Villa way bo able to muster for about 123
miles through this country tho punitive
expedition will reach tho Sierra Madre
proper. Americans who liavo penetrated
these fastnesses claim that (ho region
is one of the wildest, most barren and
defcolate that It is possible to find any-:
whero in tho world. Tho mountains ore
split by canyons, some of which havo a
sheer depth of between 2,0nT and 3,000 foot,
nnd there Is not oven a recognized trail
through their solitudes.
ORIGINATED OSGOODRY
SHORTHAND SYSTEM
Itochoster, N. Y., March 13. William W.'nl his moment only with one resolntion-
Ossoodby, originator of Oscoodbv svs
tern of shorthand, died here to-day, aged
SJ years. Mr. Ossoodby began his career
as a stenosrapher about ma, working for
Michigan newspapers, nnd In 1M repoited
a speech of Abraham Lincoln nt Kala
mazoo. Slnco 15U2 )io hud bcn u court
reporter In this judicial district
GARRISON TO PRACTICE
LAW IN NEW YORK
New York, March 15,-i.lndlcy M. Gar
rlson, formor secretary of wnr, has be.
como a resident of Now York city and
as soon as admitted to tho New York
bar will practice law hero as a member
of Ibo dim of ITornblowcr, Millor, I'ol
Icr and Katie, It was announced by
lhat II nn lo duv Mr Garrison was
formerly a vlcc.r hn nccllor of ho nlaie, throusli the canal to-dio '('he miixi
of Nuw Jcis-v uium dtXi, of Uiu vessels was SI feot.
lo the continrv alp ler.elvpil from there
hlclier in anthotitj- HmI tlenetal l'linston
the eampalcn that Tas bpcuti tn-d.iy
i-ontlliiu- until Villa Is r.-iptin-pd or killed.
This, it was saiil at tleni-ial I'miston's
lie.idtpiat ters Ui-nlKht. Is Hie Idea of
(.Vneral I'pisliinc 1iIp1i Iip cariinl villi
lilm n'-ross Hip line. No limits hriV. been
plai-rd on the Held of oppratlons, Aftpf
thp p.'itnpaln is wpII under way, it was
polntpil out, elrpiimstaiipp-t max caii'-e
I estrlptions, but .lust now the troops arp
prpparrd lo 50 ativn here to rany mil
I lip I'lPsiilPiil'a oifli-is
"News that the oprdUion ns iinrler
way rediippd to a marKcd iIpeitp the ten
sion that was pvldent al army bc.idiiiar
Iprs Iipio duritii.' Hie eailler pat I of the
day. H wax e.peped Ilia' the troops
would eioss earlier In the da.v, 1ml minor
troop mn ptiients 1 1 1 other details u!
oruitliU.-itlun delaed the stint.
Hrncral Kunston ipSarilpd the situation
optlmiKtlcally. Hp appealed to have no
doubts that the m-n in Hie Held would
render pood aeeounis of themselves In the
worl. undertaUen and ho was hopeful that
Villa would he foiccd Into n toi ner at 1111
pailv date.
There are now available In this de-
partnient for operations In Mexleo
morp than jn.iion tionps and If the
pHn.s ror rocriiltlnc the eompaules to
u strength nre earrled out tills iiuin-
bet will, It Is oNpected. he iiuieldy In-
riv.isod. Cn.ilry posts have been ie-
li.ed by infantry In most ences In or-
,,.r t prnldp a rnoip mobile force In
the pursuit of Villa, altlioutjh In the
,.Xpr,it im, that went in to-dav there is
considerable force of artlllerv which
,. ,p reinforced at anvtlme bv sev-
onl more batteries Hint now ale held
UlP American side wltlini e.isv dis-
tance of the bolder,
if ,hr 0r, i,ere:.h,.i r.t vin., ,
known at ntmy headquarters the fact
has not been dlf-closert here. Generally It
is believed that he has moed southward
toward the Guerrero district In the foot
hills of the Sierra Madies hut reports
f,.f,m Mexican sources imllca'c that thn
h fneio criMrnmeni irnmn will ,ir, n,i..
advancing American colutnns.
llnnds afflllated with Villa In other parts
of northern .Mexico have not Indicated
their intentions but brisk activity on their
part will be no surprise lo Hie American
armv olllcers. It Is anticipated that in
ehnsintc Villa these bands will have to
NOW SIXTY MILES
WEST OF EL PASO
Kl I'aso, March 13. Ainci iiau Hoops
were on Mexican soil to-night W miles
west of herp, the vansuarrt of an expedi
tion sathcrcd in less than n week, but
nevertheless one of the most powerful
forces assembled by this country since
the Spanish-American war. They wepj
out on the Identical hills where one week
So to-nlsht Francisco Villa led l.'Jft) of
his bandits stealthily up lo the American
bolder, to make an early lumping rush
"", sieepuis ,iiy or comnimis, .-x
' nun IIIUMI1-r 11 .wnei ICitlltt, PIKIIL 01
them soldiers, and one a woman.
Tlio elements nf the armament of thH
foi-ep, its numbers and the directions in
which its various columns headed afler
they passed the International lino was a
secret held by the mllltarv censorship.
FRENCH ORDER SHIRKING
SOLDIERS SHOT DOWN !
According to Copy of Vsr Instructions
Olek-d 1'p In Verdun Hellion.
Rci-Iln, March 1"j, (via wireless to Say
vllle). An official communication mndo
public here to-day contains a French
army order issued by General Dn Hazo
lalre, commander nf tho sector on tho
left bank of Ihe Meuso river, concerri-
Ins U"" ciiRusemcnt of March 7. Thn
order, which was found in the Wood of
I'10 Clows (Hols Dps l nrbcaux) north
west of Verdun, follows -
"To the commander of subordinate
sectors east and west, order.
"Your forces did not offer the resistance
which was to be expected. Fntll futther
Information I infer Hint the commander
of that .section failed In his duty. There
fore he will be coutt martinled.
"It Is necessary to offer resistance In
Ihe utmost limits. We must be itisnlrpH
cltlier to victoriously hold up the enemy
or lo die. Artillery nnd machine guns
will lire on every Hoop which irtrents,
(Slsnedl "Dp HA'.HhAlTtF,
"(Wnd nilsailc) Mircli 7, lifi."
NKWFANC INN SOLD
lli.ittloboto, March 1,1. Tlie New fane
Inn wns sold to-dav bv llio Newfune
Hotel coiuinny to K. A Whitcnmb, a
hotel man of Hoston who will takn pos
session nt unco. I In will open Ibo
house for business April 1 nnd will
cater to automobile tourists especial
ly, llo will entirely refurnish It.
SHIP OOFS TliriOFGII CANAL.
Panama, March 1,V Tim Fulled
Stntes supply ship I 'rouirlbous Sr.iu
niee and Ihe collier Mars passed
AMERICAN TROOPS
0. S. WARSHIP IS
NOW ON WAY TLI
MEXICAN HERS
Destroyer Stewart Ordered toi
Enscnadii, Following Story of
Threatened Revolt of Car
ranza (Jarrison.
OTHER REBELLION Ii UMED
Report from Ojinajra Is That
Col. Riojas Has Ruen Murder
ed (ii-owing Keeling; of Un
easiness Is Manifested anions
American Residents of .Inure..
San Iheso, C.il, March Ki. -'Ihe tor
pedo boat destroMi- Stewart will icae
here al mlil-iiishl for h'npiiai)a, Mex.,
under orders fiom Admiral Catncion
Mci:. Wlnslow, Loiiimander in chief of
Hip I'acilic licet, follow ins instruction
received help to-day from the navy de
bailment. This action coinrldes with re
ports brutish! Iipip by fishermen of a
threatened revolt in the sarrisou there.
The piolected 1 rulscr Cleveland, now
off Hip f'piittal American const, has been
ordered lo San Dlcso nnd will arrhe.
about March "A
Masters of llsh vcsi-els afrlvins here
to-day declared lhat Kriscnoiln, capital
of lower California, was once a Villa hot
bed and that trouble was feared there
wlipp news of the movement of Ameri
can troops into Mexico beenmo known
It is not known how many Americans ate
at Knwennda
The Slpwnrt. whiPb is commanded bv
l.ipiit. Tlern.it rl O. Wills, hurriedly tool, on
fuel and supplies lo-nishl. A naval oin-
cer admitted the destroyer was heins Milt
to the lower California town to Imestl-
atc. but ho would not sav If leports
of any delinlio trouble had been received.
The sarrison at Ihlsepada so fur as
known lias never pledsed loyalty to either
of thn factions in Mexico, The troops are
under thn command of Kstaban Cantu,
mllltarv sovernor of lower California,
who was leceutly reported to Iihvp l-s-
housrd the cause of General' Carran.a.
Douglas, Ariz.. M'-reh 15 Numerous tc
porls hae reaeh'ei. the ty'nited States
military aiithoi-itles that open rebellion
has broken out anions the. Carranza
troops at Cabullona, S miles south of
bore.
Americans here are seriously disturbed
and precautions have been taken to guard
the town.
Juarez. March 15. There are about 1 fi
Carrair.a troops in this town and nearl
all were confined to barracks to-day. Thcj
have been forbidden by General Gavlta
to frequent saloons. Nothing s'l-onscr
than beer is permitted to be sold pi Hip
town. In a statement IsiipiI late to-tln
General Gavlta said:
"My soldiers nie absolutely loal and
theic is no danser of any outbreaks in
this section. I hnv. received leports thai
Colonel Itiojas has been murdeted by the
troops at Ojlnns.i and am trying lo set
in communication with the town but so
far havo failed. There is no teas-on what
ever for any hostility toward Americans
In spite of General On vim's assur
ances thero was plainly visible here to
day a feeling of srowins uneasiness
anions the American lesldents. Most
of those who am In business here are
spending the nlshts on the American
f ide Kxpresslons of hostility by Mexi
cans havo thus far been confined entire
ly to the civil population. Numerous In
stances were teported where Americans
especially in thp outlying section--, noted
Mexicans spilling on the pavements as
they approached, a supreme Insult in
this loiintry. The slieet cars between
.marc ami ci I'aso are running in spite
of tlie reports throughout the day that
they were to be discontinued.
CENTRAL POWER HEARING.
Public Service Coniiiilanlnii Hold Ad
jnurnril llt-nrlltg nl Mldillrhiiry.
Middlehiiry, March 15,-An adjourned
hearing was begun In the Addison county
court house this morning at 10 o'clock
on the petition of Charles II. Thompson,
Hcnjnmln A, Sumner, Dean K. Llllle
and II. .!. M, Jones of Montpeller, and
Alex-nnder Gordon of Ilarre and Frank
If, Stuart nnd Albert 'J'. Stuart of New
ton, Mass. incorporators of the Central
Power Corporation of Vermont. Tho fore,
noon session was taken up by Attorney
Holllster Jnckson for the Ilarre Mnuu.
factm-cis1 association, who Introduced
T. II, llinman, recrctarv nnd treasuter
of tlie Harre Mnnufiiutiirprs' .'isoclaton.
lie was followed bv Alexander Duncan,
president of Ihe association, who told of
the difficulty in obtaining sufficient pow.
er for mechanical purposes lu ITaiie. Sev.
etal other witnesses were presented, who
testified along (be same line. At the
commission took a short icce?
The corporation was represented bv
Fdwln M. Harvey, F. II, Thomas, of
Montpcller, nnd Itnbert T, Ityder of Lex
Inglou, Mass., nnd CUIredsn T. Ryder o(
Hoston and lla II- Uifieur of Middle
bury; Hie llnttcll estatn by Jatncs IT.
Doiioway, Robert V. McCueu of Mid
dlebury, nnd Hert 1.. Slnffotd of UuUnnd:
the Montpcller nnd Unrro Lisht and
Power company !'' '" H. Gleasou of
Montpcller nnd W. W. Stlckney nf Lud
luiv. OLD PP.ACT1CING DKNTIST.
ITrattlelKiio. Match IS.-Dr. Chulcs
Stanford Clark. years old, tho oldest
prnctlchiK dentist in southern Vormont,
died In Ills home lu West llrattli boto this
morning after an lllnipH of Fevcrnl weeks.
He had been In falling hcnlth more than
a year.
Dr Clark was hotii lu Wru lliaitlehoio
Jul Mtu n Mi "f Slanfonl and
(Atklnsl Chile, iiM'l Hlwui', !i p, M
native town,
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
mJlTUV ; f xemptcii ironi laxallon tor a icnn or tle
3lllJJlil'jl5Ull T . M'Hts bv thn lown. The ilrusslts licence
Usc.ii I'. Shpltlisot lllshsalc, who cailin voted down at tne town merlins! a
to lslt his brother, llirbctl Shcltus, a "I" "c '-"I nnd ISO os.-TIid remaltu.
few months ago, and was aftcrw.ud lak-uj"1" -'"1' Hlfltus were taken on the 7.W
111, died lat- Salurday nlsht. used M ,rH, -Monday niotnins lo llislisate. at
i-ats lirsldes Ills Wile, lie Ipjmh olio hp place IIip fnni-rnl lervbe wpi
brothir lie was a prmnlnrnl Odd Fellow. hoUl Tll(' icnialns wcie accompanied bv
The body was taken on the T;.Mi train 1H "lrp- t"""",r. llebuit Shcltn.-', and
Monday lo llislisate, wlicto (ho ""I'll"" 1 icorsc Shell us. Frank Slinckelt.
funcial was held Tuc.mIiiv. -Wnllci- ''' whoso pirn p or l)nlllP.i whs h.idlv
S. Ilamlltuu of New llaen has '"inRel ! Hie Salurdiiv nlslil. bus
moved onto the I.. (I. Allen faun, which !cne, temporary iUarlers at IiIh home
he will oprialo the cumins season.
Thomas !' I'.icnn.in lias lelunicd ficui MI"H Hrmnleve Hlmer of Foulinpy Is x U
Sl. Albins. where he was called bv the Hie boinn or her pai nils. Mr. am!
death of his slvtcr. Sinn isathcrlu.. 'Ws. Hoiace Kliner Willliini Dup:..lt
rirpntian.-Mr. and Ws. Chailes in"1 ri"nlh' hnvr ,,,"vctl I'1'"-'''.
favmenl. who lime IHp.1 on Ihe t l .
Mini farm for two ypiirs, huc iiiovcil in
l!look:- lib . I'ichIiIiiiI .lohti M. Tliuniasl
has Iptiirned I nun liostoii, where be at-
leiidid Hip annual nic-tlua of the Kostou
Alumni association, which was lir
i he Hotel Vcndoinc I'lblay cvcnlus.-
..Mis
ptl.,il, Rimini, lu 111 til tier liimi,. lltHl over
Chlpiiiuii hill mid her daushter. Mis. Hail !" 1"""n -'rnwall. died late Snn
t.e,,M. I, bur for linrCliurlen ''"V ,llsl" '" "K" "r .v,,0" "r ;1
.1. Scce., wlio has been III at
Ills home un High slieet, lnui mi far re
ioered that he Is able to be out again.
Mis. liny 1. Fisher has gone to xiicon,
Ga , wheie she will Join ner hiihntid,
Kay Fisher, who Is In tialnlns with Ibo
New York AhiPilcan baseball team.
Osiar Slicllu.-. or lllnhsato Is ill al tho
home of Ids brotbi r, llpi-beit Sheltus.
ieorsp I. Marshall, who has been 111 at
his home on North Fleasant street, is meiuners nine open mined lo tlio i oil or
slowlv tennerlns. -Frank A. Nlsuii and 11,0 '""si esatlonnl Churili mpiiibPishlp,
daushtpr, Miss Merecdps Nlsuu, of r"'"' t,r """' "" confession of faith and
rsildport. visited In town Siitur.lay.-Miss "" lr,lf,'-s fiom other churches.
Anna llalpln, who has Iippii vi.-itins at 1 " rc f mil thn Fiist Consresational
Hip home or hm- sister. Mrs. T. I'. ''llUrcli f Ibirlinstoii.- The boy scouts
llrciuian. for a week, has lelurneil to "";t 1,1 1,10 vc"y of the Congregational,
her home In nullum! -Miss Fioi cno 1 ''"'rdi at 1:1.1 nVlork Tuesday afternoon.
Smllh, who has been visiting at Hie home "U t!,n Previous meeting lu,l Corkran
ot li parents. Mr. and Mis. A. II. Smith. ,r!",n YrIUV Korr '''--t"! Pftrol lead
for two works, has returned to liellows "sand Hugh Atwood and Frank liullocl;
Falls Michael G. Oraily. who has Iippii il-s-slti'it Icadprs. The respective naiiips
eonlliied to Hip lions., for a week has .-o "r ""' P'H"N hip Ilpaver and Ixme Wolf,
far lecovpreil iw to be ablp to be nhout T,p -M''!rHr-lniiy entertaiiifn. 12 In num-iisnin.-.l.
V. IloM lias returned from w "rMl '" Jrpll by fam Tue..ljy
Whitlns, where be preached at both the afternoon and In the emlns gave an pii
nioniing nnd evening exercises al tho rtainmciit in tlie town hall for the
Consrcsatlonal Church in that village benefit ot St. F.ml's church. Tho micr
on Sunday. Walter I'.iown nnd Harry Inlnment tnnslsted of voal and Instru
lorcst or Mlddlchiiry arc teporte.l to mental music, readlncs and recitat ions.
have sailed on a borsn tKtiisport ship After a four weeks' stay in town I'cter
trom Montreal o some point in Fiirnpe, Lack has retutned to Ausabln l'orks,
lircsiimably in France. Daniel D Sullivan N. V., wheio he ha.s Iipph employed for
of Sborelinni, u foimcr lesldcnl, visited a year and where ho cpccin (n slav for
friends in town Saliiiday and wpnt from another seas.on. .Mis. George 1, Moore
here to l'.urllnston for a visit with rcla- and sister, Miss Anna Mooie, have goo"
live?. .Mr. and Mrs. Frank Guidon and (" Rutland, where they wero rolled by
daughter, lVnelope, lelurneil to Orange, H'e Illness of their sister, M.-s. Grimes.--N.
.1., after a week s visit in town. The annual meeting or the Addison
There is conFldcrable talk about town County Cow Testing association will be
over the possibility that Middlobury mnv held in the ofllco of County Agent ,T. K.
secure a $13,W library bulldim? from thi C.irrisan in the Tint loll block Monday
Camesio corporation, providing that a morning at ten o'clock. Reports will be
O'Ur per cent, tax for llbtary support was given and ofllccrs rlcetcd. Ci'iarles
voted. This was done nt the town meet- Vestal!, Sr., who li.n been sufrcrins
lng. I.arso quantities of hay are now bovcrely from an attack of thn grip and
beins drawn daily from the country towns complications, wan ablo to bo at Ills place
to this station for shipment to thn city of business Tuesday for tho first time in
markets. Hoston, Worcester and I'rovl- more than four weeks. J. A. Wilson of
dencn taking the larser share nt prlcei Amsbury, Mass, Is In town. A commit
running from M to $21 per ton. The
Jirynn manufacturing plant at Fast Mid- (Continued on rnge tmi.)
MEXICAN BANDITS
ATTACK TROOPS
kingSVllle, TeX., IVIarcll l.l.
Movie-in hinrli'ta in lvivn
.UCMCail DaiKlltS, bald 10 e
numbered about 80, fired upon
sixteen American soldiers guard
ing the Barreda bridge on the
St. Louis, Brownsville and Mex
ico railroad about 14 miles north
of Brownsville at 10 o'clock to
night. At least one hundred
shots were exchanged. None of
the Americans were injured. It
is not known it the bandits suf-
J'ered any casualties
While thn fight
was in jirogtess.
train approachlns from the south was
NEAR R 1 V LIE
nagged and siopjicil by an American of thn American Chemical society, said
soldier. A cuard of five soldiers on the one of thn most Important advantages of
train rushed forward and reinforced the a Initiatory would be that of supplying
men flchtlus at the bridge. With thn ar- adequate means for fixation of atmos
rival of these reinforcements thn linu-) pherlc nitrogen for use lu making cxplo
dlls (led and are. believed to have escaped ! slves.
Into Mexico, '
This is tlio first bandit trouble In tin; ! INTERN AL REVENUE
Mrownsvlllo reason slnco last October. I m.VnMMTvJ IVPIfl? I CI?
Troops guarding tho railway lino hn' ULILI lia 11 V. IU.AaL.
been ordered Increased.
SI LI US NOT SUNK RY
GERMAN SUBMARINE
According to Mnlcmcnt I'lilloii lug Of
llclnl lincNllmilliin.
Herlin, March 15, via wireless to Sax -llle.-
"All otllci.il linestigalion by the
German navy has established the fact
that no German submatinn was concern
ed in thn sinking of tlio Norwegian hark
Sllus," savs the Overseas News Agency.
The Norwegian bark Slllus was sunls
last Thursdnv night lu llavin roads,
wheie f.hn hnd am veil on n vuvngo from
New York with a cargo of wheat. Of
seven Americans, members of tlie crew
ill! escaped unlniuicd except John Halt
mnnn, whoso legs wcro injured by Myitis
ibJbrls. Captain Syverlsen of llio Slllus
and two of the sailors were reported to
have been iltowned.
SAID UK K1LLCD HIS M OT 1 1 K 11,
Cambridge, Mas., Match 15. ITichard
L. MeC'ormlck. a sou of John McConnlck,
one of (ho registrars of olcrs In (his
city, walked Into (ho Cast Cambridge
police station to-dav and declined lie hnd
kltlnl his mother. Tim woinnti was foiim!
hing on the Ib'or of her kitchen with a'
deep wound lu Hie he, nl She died on thp
wa to the hospital The oung mail -alii
ho had had a il'UicI Willi hei He Is .
cars old.
dlebut-v have their new mill well iindei
I way mid expert lo set It started anout
Hm first of tho month. Thpv,hao been
until after the Insiiiauic Is iidiusted.
- l .. w npi p i ncy win inn he i i.pir moiop
Mrs Mllo K Mooie who lias Iippii
.it
1 1 n r home on Court hiippI has t-n far te
coverpfl as lo be a-iie. to be abonL th
lioii.-e asaln. Moiidav, markei day, esss
bioiisbt -1 nnd butler 23 lo ni cent''
Alary limber St'MUis, widow of Koynl
I.. tcVPtis, who had Iippii (or i-oiiip nine
'implication of diseases. She Is sin vivid
bv a ilaushlcr, Mrs. William W Williams
of Whiting, and a son. Arthur SIpvpiis of
Cornwall, and two grandchildren, and a
sister, Mrs. Fhlra Stcveni of li'Uhuul.
The fumr.il was held al her Into home
In Cornwall pstprilav at one ' lock,
lb- l!rv. i:, i;. ityder of Salisbury
iirflciated ami thn burl il was in thn
"West Salisbury ccnieli rv.- Fight new
EDISON FAVORS
, CONSTRUCTION OF
J Washington. March I.'. -Construction of
a Bleat government laboratory for devcl-
I OI,ment ,,r .njmaHno;,, Wai shin .-uid othor
eiiulpmcnt was advocated Lcforo the
House naval committco to-day liy Thomas
A, Cdison and other members of the civil
ian advisory board. Mr. Kdisnp. s.iiil a
properly equipped establishment costing
to begin with $l,r.) would make possi
ble experiments for standardization of
submarine juris, for Instance which
inlslil icsult In enabling builders to turn
out a sul marine in a wci-k liis'cnd of tlie
many months now required.
The other mourners or the hoard who
apjienred were Howard C. Collin, W. L.
Saundeis, A. M. Hunt and Dr. I,. II,
IS.ickcl.ind. Dr. Haekeland, who was aji
1 pointed to the hoard on recomniendat Ion
I S Treasury OlllcltilH llopr Presrut
l ineal Yrnr III Ibid vtlth .Siirplim.
WashliiRton, Mnrcli 15.- Internal revenue
receipts of Hie government havo shown
such a muikrrl In 'rease durliis tho last
few months n er those of the hi mo months
last year that tieasiiry department offl-
nils now .lie hopeful that Ibo pieseut
tiscil year, whb h cuds June ", will find
tlie treasiuy with n siuplus. At tlie close
of tho llscal e,ir 101.1 Hierc was a detuit
of about ?i"..(ii).ii.
Oidlnary internal reveni.e leceiids up to
datn this )ear amount to about :Vj;,(iim,ii.)
comjMicd with nhout J.'-'x ".) for the
.ame period lu I'll.-,. With about thrcn
and one-half nionths Iclt befoic the llsi.il
year ends nlllclals cxpett to sen the lead
over last year In ordinary teccipts Jn.
creased bv jiosslhly $I..,0iH1,i1i mote.
IIACD TASK FOIt COL ITODD.
II.H-hltn. N. .M Mnrcli 13. Tlio commy
I which Col. Gcorso A. Dodd'H cominaiid
lis to traoio In oxttemely rugged. It s
a Miccesslou of hills and mountains, toi.
ped by Irtegul.ir, rocky peaks and crossed
by valleys and canons. Scattered throusu
this territory aro largo stock r.tnehes with
thousands of head of horses and entile.
Somo of it is desert, with hero and thero
skeletons of cattle which slrnved too far
I from water holes.
llnllfas, N S. .Match 13 - The Nov.i
Scull, i Leg Isl 1 1 Hi c ,ie to night passed
Hie p. nlilli'lhul lull b a vole or ?S to
NAVAL LABORATORY
iSM PRINPf'Q
ARMY PAUSES FOR
BREATH AT VERDUI
And Probably to Rrin Up Re
inrorccnicnls Meanwhile HU
(inns Roar from Medium tc
the Vosgcs i1ounlains.
GERMANS MAKE GftlMS
Win important Positions between
Rethincourt and Cumicrcs, hut
the Kronen Retake Part of
Them by lirillianl Counter
AttaeKs.
Loudon, Mnnh 13 The, German rriji
Jirime.'a ar.nv has apiiarentlv pa ised t
take breath or bring up relnforceuii-1 t s
for a rontlnuani n of the advance nsac t
tho Verdun fortress nnd lis outlying de
fences. Meanwhile tin- big gimi are ex
changing shells al various points alone
thn entire linn fiom llelgtum to the
Vosscs mountains.
Tho latest assault bv the German In
fantry between Hethlneonrt and Cumlere.i
resulted In tho wlnnlns of important posi
tions, but bv counter attneks tho J.'ren b
Mlei ceded In retaking a jiarl of tin!
ground, and, in-cording to Hi otT.li ial
."tntpiupiit or thn Freni h war olhce. hold
nethliicourt, tho hoisht of I,.- x:tt
llomuip, thn village ot Cimibres and the
southern boundary of Cumlens wood,
all jioltlonr, of sreat strnteglp im
jiortance. i:.ist of Verdun there has brpa con
slderabln activity around Vaux and Pmhi
loup !ind nshtlns at cloe raii:i c jti
in progress aroiinil the eastern slope of
Fori Vaux, which for days past ha3 been
tlio object or somo of tho liardc i light
ing. The rtcneh have taken a Gorman
trpiidi south of St. Souplel, whMi in
dicatos that in tho Chaiiijiagnp rcsion
tlio contending forces are still endeavor
ing to take advantage of ept"' ojipor
tunity to strengthen their lines.
Advices from Pctrosind dcsiribo !
niarkublo prostess in Persia, ot tho Rus
sian Hoops, who aro movins swiftly over
dirrlcult roads and in the faeo of onsid.
erablo opjjosltlon towards tho .Mc&opo
taml.in frontier, whero they expect soon
to bo In touch Willi the British forcei
at ICut-el-Amara and tho relievins co(.
umn under Generals Lake, and Aylmcr.
The Itussians are now said lo bo within
30 miles of tho last difficult pats which
will placo them in the rear of thn
Turkish l'.asd.id army, and their object
is to cut tlio railway to the north, there
by pieventlns tho TurkWh army fiom
re eivlng supplies, and co-operate with
Cm lirltlsli against .Uasdad.
In their advance asainst the Turku
nlong tlio lilapk sea llttotal toward Trohl
(onil the Itussians have capti.red addl
ional Turkish ofneofs and men and twi
in.i'-hlno suns. A Jfrilish column hn a'
a- ked an advanccil position of the Turi n
l.i Mcaopotainbi, bnyonettod a consider
able number of tho Turks and captured
others.
In tho Austro-ltalKn zono the Italians
aro visorously shelling Austrian jiosltloni
and here nnd thero throwins their infan
try into tlio fray. No marked changes in
thn line havo occurred, however.
Tho Ilrltlsh liavo captured the part of
Solium In West Ks.vpt from the Scnussl
tribesmen led by Turkish officers wit'i
only slight resistance. Afterwards they
pursued tho lleeins tribesmen and cap
tured officers, men nnd suns.
In Fast Africa tlio Hoer General
Smuts Is actively pressing tho Germans,
who aro reported to be retlrlns south
ward alons the Tnnsa lailwav.
A senil-ofricial despatch from Herlin
sas nn investigation by the German ad
miralty juis disclosed the fa I that nt
German submarine sank the Norwegian
bark Slllus on which there were a iiim
her ot Americans in tho Havrn rnad
During tho Illness of General Gallieni.
Ihe French minister of war, his post will
hn filled by p.car Admiral Leca.-.o. min
ister of marine.
BRITISH IN SOUTH
AFRICA PROGRESSING
lxindon, March 15. Further prosrejs fr
thn Ilrltlsh expcdlUonnry force in tin
campaign against German Fast Aft lea
wns oillcially announced this evening
The statoment said that General Jsn
Christian Smuts, In command of thn foroi,
hnd reported the occupation of Mushl,
nnd that Hm litltish were pushing on to
occupy Atusha, bellord to hav teen
evacuated.
Arthur H. Stecl-Maltlnnd. i"l inin' rdpr
s-eiretat y, at a meeting of th" Oveicns
l'orces club this evening ch.ii.ot- el
General Smuts' advance as aiiuthei- ti Ik
lug Miccei-s. lie fsnl the Germans,
demoralized, were retreating sm.l'iw.iid
WOMAN ASKS TO
ENLIST IN THE NAVY
.Minneapolis, Minn., Match U- A woma'i
applied at tho local recruiting station for
ciillitment In llio p.inw to-day She g.in
her n.iiiia ns Mrs Mamlo Johns-nn ot
Williston. N. D,
"Women at this time should do somo
thing for their countty." sho snld, "nml
I would llko to join the nnvy as a cook"
Sho was told the law ptohlblted enlist
ment of women.
Hoston, March 13. Orders a.tthonxing
tlio opening of army recruiting stations
lu Lynn nnd Uiwronce, Mass.. ami Man
chester, N. H., wero received to-das
NHW PIIFS1DKNT FOP. I'HK' '
Lima. Peru, March 13. -President P.i do
linn decided to resign next month In f.ncr
of Itlcardo HenUn. tlie Hist vlpc-pic I
dent, on .0 count of ill-lic.i'th lie v
go lo N'cw York at th" middle "f pn on
Uiu WiU' lo Utiiufu lo I'ocupoiate
