SENATE VOTES $2,065,000 FOR BREMERTON
\X/0 'I" TI T T\f\ " vmi werc a lu>sl ' ,l A party and suddenly, during a dmce, your host was mysteriously shot dead at your very
|iHK7 VV A J[ W \jJ I -.1 3 J Lf\J h a t would you do, it you were a woman, and a man madly in love with you proposed, saying: "You're • rattle
in <min if 0,, •» i- it brained, butterfly-minded and extremely conceited young person, but I hnve the misfortune to love you as I love life
will k, „rin»«i • ' ti. i c» SI " s make Ihe Maxwell Mystery" one of the most fascinating bits of fiction that ever came from the pen of Carolyn Wells. Beginning Monday, "The Maxwell My»-
y printed in Hie Star in six consecutive installments. IT TOWERS AS FAR ABOVE THE SO-CAI II I) MYSTHRV STORIES AS THE SMI 111 HUII DING ABOVE COON HOLLOW. READ IT.
Notice, Housewife
EO. W PERKINS, famous Wsll
street financier, has applied bus
iness principles to housekeeping. His
first article, telling you how to save
20 cents on every dollar, appears on
page 5 today.
Mutinous Carranza Army Plants
Batteries in Path of U. S. Soldiers
AMERICAN TROOPERS ON VILLA'S TRAIL IN THE DESERT COUNTRY OF NORTHERN MEXICO
BIG LINER
BLOWN UP;
ALL SAFE
Palatial Dutch Vessel Believed
to Have Struck
Mine.
TAKE PASSENGERS OFF
WASHINGTON, March 18.—
A atata department Inquiry
Into th# sinking of th* Dutch
' lln«r Tabantla, with the Amerl
can* reported aboard, will b«
Started, It waa announced to
-18l ♦
AMSTERDAM. March 18.—
Three hour* after a terrific *x
plosion amidships, the Royal
Dutch liner Tubantia aank In
the North aea, it waa reported
today.
She carried 87 passengsrs and
a crew of 300. All were aald to
have been saved.
Tho tha Tubantia's captain
aald she might have been tor
pedoed, rsports at the com
| pany's offices aald ehe hit a
mine.
The Tubantia's crew numbered
| 300 men. She carried malla and a
1 number of passengers.
The captain was taken off by a
rescue boat.
He said the Tubantia was wreck
ed by a terrific explosion amid
ships.
Hole Ripped In Stern
A huge hole was ripped In her
stern. Wireless messages calling
I for help Immediately flashed over
>» the sea.
Passengers and crew abandoned
the stricken liner at once, tumbling
Into lifeboats while still half asleep.
Some were terrified by the explo
sion. the darkness and horror of the
moment, but no panic was re
ported.
Several Dutch torpedo boats and
- life saving craft appeared on the
rrene at daybreak, picking up shlv
poring lifeboat cargoes.
Only the fact the explosion oc
curred while the Tubantia was near
lat»d prevented heavy casualties.
Lifeboate Reach Lightship
Two of the ship's heavily laden
lifeboats reached a lightship at
When the Battle Was O'er, and the Vote Was Read.'Twas Bill Grambs Who Smiled--"Ain't It Just Fine?" He Said
IT WAS the night of the city election. The city comptroller'* of
fice In the city halt hummed. t . .
Newspaper men, potltlclane of *11 *hade*, office holder*, lob
bylete end other "«vl»* one»" were there to digest the returns.
Clerk* ruehed hither and thither with precinct figure*.
Jim Agnew, chief clerk, posted bulletlne every once In ■ while.
Adding machine* end typewriter* clicked busily.
By 10 o'clock there w»» no doubt how the election h*d gone, from
mayor down to the port belt line proportion. But the crowd lingered.
It wa* a rare morsel for political appetite*, and they kept telling
each other "how It happened."
• • • • •
Hilly Oram be, *ale* manager of the Htone-Web*ter Internet* In
Seattle better and morn familiarly known thru hi* activities an a lob
by|*t In behalf of the clectrlc corporation, wa* there moat of the even
lu«.
NEW MEXICO GUARDS
MAY BE CULLED OUT
WASHINGTON, March IS.
—Official war dapartmant
advicaa today from tha ad
jutant ganaral of tha Naw
Mexico militia said hla cltl
tan eoldlere might be called
on for duty during tha hunt
for Villa.
11 a. m. today. Tho It Is possible
soma passengers or sailora may
have perished daring thn excite
ment. the company's adrlcea aald
all were saved.
The Tabantla departed from Am
sterdam yesterday, bound for
Buenos Ayres
She I* owned by the Royml Dutch
Uoyd llo»>. Is of 13.911 ton*. MO
feet loo* by 6">.K feet b«tni. and Is
loss than a year old She Is rom
manded by f'apt H. K. Wytsma
The liner ha* been In service
only a few months, and Is one of
the most elaborately outfitted
"ocean palaces" on the Atlantic.
LINER ESCAPES 'SUB'
NFTVV* YORK, March 18—After
having been attacked without warn
ing by a submarine, the K*abre liner
F'atrla. flying the French flag, with
20 Americana among tta 900 pas
sengers. docked safely here today.
Captain Dechelles declared the
submarine attempted to torpedo his
vessel Msrch 1, while he wa* off
the African coast. The torpedo,
he said. ml«sed his rudder by less
than 30 feet. Passengers were
thrown Into a panic.
BOY KILLS PUYMAYE
Cavan Poison, age 11, waa
Inetantiy killed when hi* 8 year
old playmate, Curtis Perry,
pointed a ehotgun In hi* face,
called out laughingly, "I'm go
ing to shoot you," and pulled
the trigger Wednesday after,
noon.
He thought the gun would
not go off, he said.
They were playing on »
ranch six mllea east of Kent.
f TODAY'* TIDKa AT KEATTI.K
liieh Um»
S:lfl a. m . IS.I ft, *:XI a m.. ? » "■
j 3 ZS p nt , II I ft. »:!» P 1 1 't.
The Seattle Star
t THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS
VOLUME 18
CALDWELL
DEPUTY IS
ATTACKED
John M. Osvls, a realty deal
er. of 822 Seventh ave. N . pre
sented a petition Thursday to
the Seattle Bar association,
asking that diabarment pro
ceedings be started against
Thomaa J. L. Kennedy, one of
Corporation Counsel-elect Hugh
M. Caldwell's appointees.
He charges that Kennedy, while
deputy prosecutor under John F
Murphy. In 1914. violated the law
providing that "no prosecuting at
torney shall be employed or allow
ed to conduct any action for a di
vorce on the part of the plaintiff
or applicant In the courts of this
state."
Davis cites his own rase as an
Inslanre In which Kennedy sppear
ed In an alleged Illegal capacity as
counsel for Mrs. Kffle M Davis,
his wife.
Judge Ronald dismissed the rase
on Ayrll 17. 1914, after boUl par
ties had agreed to an amicable set
tlement, and the pa pars In the suit
were withdrawn from the records
Another Instance mentioned by
Davis Is Kennedy's spiH-arance In
the case offasslus M. Page against
May belle Page, filed November 30,
1914.
Two days after. Judge John E
Humphries, now rtesd, gavn Page
a decree on the ground of Incorn
patlblllty. W. D. (Hills. Kennedy's
present law partner, was counsel
for Mrs. Page.
WEATHER FORECAST
Showers tonight; Friday,
| generally fair.
lie bubbled over with enthusiasm at the result*.
About II o'clock a well-known municipal ownership ndvocate
sauntered Into the comptroller'* office.
Notlclnx Oramb*. he approached him nnd *nl<l:
"Well, old man, you've won."
Oramb*, nil flushed with excitement of victory, scarcely noticed
who It was had addressed him.
Absent-mindedly, he replied:
"YES; ISN'T IT FINE? ISN'T IT FINE?"
• m • • •
The Ktone K Webster Interest* are In politics. Not passively,
not disinterestedly, hut actively, aggressively, continuously.
If once, the statement has been repeated by thousands In the past
week The Seattle Klectrlc Co. won out this time."
I'erhaps you have made the statement yourself
The Stone ft Webster activity was more noticeable In the last
election than In other campaign*.
SEATTLE, WASH._IHURSI)AY, MARCH 16, 1916. ONE CENT ,„V. V
I). S. Hopes Carranza
Will Gaptura Villa
■Y R. J. BENDER
U. P. Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON, March 1«.
—Preaident Wllaon hopea
Gen. Carranza will capture
Villa.
The admlnletratlon today
made no effort to conceal
the eatiafactlon It would
give to have Carrama bag
Villa before the Americana
can reach him.
Great danger la a«en in
the probable attitude of
peona who cannot be reach
ed thru ordinary channela,
and who will not aee the of
ficial etatement that the
expedition la not an "In
vaelon."
White Houee feeling to
day la that the crlala will
determine Carranta'a con
trol over his forcee.
MONDAY QUITS
THE PARK BOARD
Charle* F. Munday resigned
from the park board Thursday In
a letter addressed to Mayor 0111, he
said: "The demands of my own
business so fully occupy my time
that I am unable to give park mat
ters the time which lli'lr lm
portance requires, and cannot af
ford to neglect my own business."
Mayor 011 l said he would not
name a successor until he hail
plven the vuhjrct several days'
consideration
AMERICAN TROOPS RIDING THRU THE ROCKY DEFILES OF
NORTHERN MEXICO. NOTE THE BLEAK. ROCKY APPEARANCE
OF THE COUNTRY, IDEAL FOR AMBUSHES.
Pass Appropriation
for Puget Sound Yard
WASHINGTON, March 18.—
The acnate today paeeed Sen
ator Polndexter'a meaaura, ap
propriating |2£<J.OOO to equip
the Puget Sound navy yard for
battleahlp conatructlon.
This appropriation la merely the
beginning of the government ahlp
building program which la to go to
Bremerton.
The mm of |2,0fi5,000, It w«s i»s
tlmateil by Senator Polndoxter. aft
er taklnK the matter up with Sec
retnry of the Nuvy I>nnlela, will be
needed to put the navy yard at
Bremerton and Charleston. Wash ,
In auch condition that, the govern
merit can undertake Ita own ahlp-
building there.
Separate appropriations will then
be mad« for such new ships as
may be ordered hullt.
Since the preparedness campaign
has begun, naval experts have
unanimously testified that the navy
yard on I'uget sound Is the best In
the country.
It Is the most easily accessible
for first class battleships and Is
Ideally located for shipbuilding
A strong lobby from San Fran
clsco had attempted to get this
shipbuilding appropriation for the
Mare Island navy yard, and their
l*rlor to the close of the registration period, Norwood llrocUett,
one of the attorneys of the corporation, whose activities an a lobbyist
In the legislature were directed with old-time "hospitality" in a pri
vate mansion at Olympla. was busy drumming tip hotel registration
downtown.
Together with the Employers' association, the Seattle Klectrlc
Co. sent out over 100,000 circulars to point out what they considered
"maladministration" by the "Erlckson council."
Cards on which slates were fixed to get the easily convinced vot
er were scattered about I he city by the bushel.
• ♦ • • m
Ho much for the active signs of Stone & Webster political ac
tivity.
However, that Is but a small part of It.
t'nllke the average voter, the Stone-Webster Interests work at
politic* the year 'round. In season and out of Heason.
Occasionally, they show their hand. Oeuemlly, however, thoy
progress aided in a measure
by a bill Introduced by Congress
man Humphrey of Seattle to ap
propriate only $20,000 for Bremer
ton.
I.ater Humphrey rained his
amount to pfioo.ooo
Senntor t'olndexter. however,
was able to ahow the aenate that
Bremerton la the beat site, accord
In* to all unprcludiced vlewa, and
that the amount needed to fit It up
for shipbuilding purpoaea Is |2,06f.,.
000.
His victory In the oennte today
was complete
The bill will now go to the house I
RIGHT O, PROFESSOR
Prof. A Rerglnnd, of the mil
versttv, urged the teaching of
swimming In public schools nt a
meeting of tin- Central Council of
Social Agencies at (!ood Kats caf
eteria Wednesday.
—FISHERMEN—
Something For You!
See Tomorrow'* Star Sport
Page
taj^T
Mj EDITION J.
DOUGLAS, Ariz., March 16.—Concentration of 3,000
mutinous Carranzistas at Cabullona, 18 miles south of Doug
las, is causing United States army officers here grave con
cern today.
Plans are being worked out to move against this force
if developments necessitate such action.
Scouts report that the disaffected Carranza men are
en K a R e d in active defense operations, entrenching and plac
ing batteries facing in the direction from which the U. S.
troops from this section must come to start their hunt for
Villa.
Gen. Calles. at Agua Prieta, just across the line, has
been informed that the Cabullona forces believe he has sold
out to the United States and have forbidden him to come to
their camp, according to messengers from Cabullona today.
Calles denies this. ( but says if Sonora state is invaded by
the United States troops he will protest.
Troops Pierce Deep Into Bandit Country
EL PASO, March K>. —After having bivduacked over
night near Ptlnmas lake, nine miles from the border, the main
American detachment hunting Villa was reported marching
deeper into the bandit country today.
Cavalry is scouting ahead of the toiling infantry columns.
Bringing up the rear, comes a long train of army wagons, es
corted l>v horsemen.
Col. Sloctun's men were reported this afternoon crossing
the Chihuahua desert, following the line of Villa's retreat from
Columbus. The trail was marked by many wounded Villistai
who were unable to accompany their comrades. When they
weakened they were abandoned.
Col. Dodd Making Forced March
Col. Dodd's column, which crossed the border yesterday
or today southward from Culberson's ranch, Arizona, is said
to be proceeding along the Sierra Madre foothills.
Their march is forced, as they are endeavoring to relieve
the town of Dublen, where a colony of Mormons is believed
to be menaced bv outlaws. '
Americans at Guzman believe tlie Villistas there have not
heard of the I*. S. expedition, as outlaw hands were still lin
gering in the vicinity of Casas Grandes. They said a Carranza
censorship had been in effect since the Columbus raid, to pre
vent any new* of \merican plans filtering into the interior.
Mystery enshrouds Gen. Pershing's whereabouts. It was in
creased when he was reported personally commanding a
third column said to be crossing the border south of Hachita.
Censorship Strongest in History
Pershing accompanied the «oldiers from Columbus to the
border, and was then rumored to have gone back and started
for Hachita All movements of troops and commanders were
hidden, however, by the strongest censorship in America's Jiis
tory.
A base of operations fffobably will be established at Guz
man. as munitions and food arc easily sent to it by railroad
from HI Paso by way of Juarez.
Constitutionalists in Chihuahua state, acting under orders
from Carran/a, transmitted thru Gen. Obregon, are co
operating with the Americans. The report brought by trav
elers from Columbus yesterday that the vanguard met slight
opposition from do facto government troops at Palomas
proved to be unfounded.
Villa Planning to Destroy Property
Villa was last reported in the Galeana district, near Pear
son. headed toward a $1,000,000 lumber plant belonging to
the Pearson company, a British firm.
The outlaw had sworn to destroy all wells in the desert
country and to attack the American Mormon colonists at
Casas Grandes.
There is only a ■-mall Carranza garrison in Pearson, but
the Carranzistas have announced they have enough men at
.Casas Grandes to protect the Mormons from bandit attacks.
The 13th cavalry, Sixth and loth infantry, a battalion
of the 18th infantry, a battalion of the Sixth field artillery,
and a portion of the Fourth artillery arc following Villa's
trail from Columbus.
Army Aeroplanes Leave Columbus by Air
Several army aeroplanes, brought from Sail Antonio, are
scheduled to fly today from Columbus in tbe wake of tbe
column of Cpl. Slocum.
Col. Dodd's force is expected to cut across northwestern
Chihuahua and join Slocum. From Guzman the two com
mands .ire to spread out in a wide enveloping movement for
the purpose of surrounding Villa, ("arran/istas located south
of \ ilia's whereabouts are depended on to co-operate.
News of troop movements continues to come only by
automobile parties which traveled in tiic wake of the expedi
tion or arrived from Columbus.
work "Invisibly."
Much has been said about "Invisible government."
Kxposes of thl? nature have only scratched the surface.
The Stone A Webster corporation has a small army engaged in
"Invisible government" work.
It often takes the form of committees of one kind and another,
appearing before the legislature to protest against a bill or to advo
cate one.
Ill* delegations nre brought to council chambers to support soma
object (if the Stone \ Webster companj and often many In tbe del®-
nation do not know they are being used as the corporation's cattfpaw.
Thru Individuals, thru societies, thru secret combinations, lh«
big corporation Is diligently engrossed In politics.
JUBT NOW. WITH THE CITY ELECTION OVER, THE
STONE A WEBSTER CORPORATION HAS TURNED ITB
ATTENTION IN ANOTHER DIRECTION. THE STAR WILL
TELL YOU ABOUT IT TOMORROW.
