ytf'.tc HiGtcricil
Taney
EPUBLICAN
OUNTY
'V
VoL; 2l. No 18. FORSYTH, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1910. Four Page9
-: -.rrrr t : r. 7Ta 177 i our Faitn in onus I
Washington Letter
(From Our Ki-imlnr Corrpuiicl'nt.'i
A PERPLEXED DEMOCRACY: Ad
ministration supporters in the House of
Representatives are finding the task set
them by the President core difficult
than did the Senate, Mr. Wilson has
ordered the Democratic members to dis
regard .their own views and the petitions
of their constituents and to vote down
a resolution warning Americans off the
armed merchantmen ol belligerents
This they refuse to do, although they
are willing to vote to lay such a resolu
tion on the table. The leaders were
afraid to permit the vote to be taken
yesterday because they feared the ef
feet on the Indiana primaries held to
day, out they hope to get the vote re
corded before adjournment tonight
They are not hopeful, either, that the
President's position will be even thus
half heartedly sustained by any over
whelming majority. The argument
being used in the House is the same
as that employed in the Senate, name
ly. "No matter how gravely the Pres
ident has blundered, irrespective of
how often he has changed his mind,
regardless of the fact that you and your
constituents believe he is wrong, now,
when he is confronted by a foreign
nation disposed to violate American
rights, it is not the proper time to de
plore past mistakes or to exhibit a di
vergence cf opinion between the Pres
ident and the Congress." It is furth
er argued that Mr. Wilson has changed
his mind so often that he cannot do so
again without making the United States
ridiculous, but that as members of the
Hous2 have not publically expressed
their views they can vote to uphold the
President without r xposing themselves
to like criticism Democratic Repre
sentatives feel bitterly. They believe
that a majority of their constituents in
almost every district will disaprove of
even the half hearted support they are
urged to give the President. And on
the other hand, they feel that if they
vote against Mr. Wilson the split in
the party will afford conclusive evi
dence to the voters that the Democ
racy is incompetent to deal with large
problems. Many members have here
tofore written constituents who urged
them to act in opposition to the views
Mr. Wilson now holds and in support
of those he held a week ago that the
Constitution confines the conduct of
foreign relations to the President and
that it would be improper lor them to
"butt in." That was when Mr. Wil
son was demanding that Congress re
main silent on the subject of his nego
tiations with Germany. Now the Pres
ident demands that they speak, by
their votes, and in opposition to the
wishes of their constituents. One
Democrat who will vote against tabling
the McClemore resolution is replying
to his constitutents, ' I am supporting
the President in the position he took
yesterday. Am opposing the posititon
he takes today. But as I shall not
change and he doubtless will, I pro
bably will be supporting his position cf
tomorrow." v
in review their work ana re
form their practices. But he has sent
Colonel House twice to Europe and
thereby confessed his own lack of con
fidence in the Indiana Sharp who suc
ceeded the tried and experienced
Herrick at Paris, the blundering Mayre
at Petrograd, the fulsome Page who
represents the United States at London,
when he is not writing panegyrics of
Woodrow Wilson for World's Work, et
at. It is only the existence of the
secret fund" in the State Department
designed, of course, for wholly dif
ferent purpose which has enabled
the President to send his friend and
sponsor; Colonel House, on these de
lightful junkets, but as this misappro
priation of that fund is, only in spirit
and not in letter, no serious conse
quences are likely to follow until
November 7th.
Birds Of Feather: "The most
scathing arraignment of a President of
the United States ever delivered" is
the general verdict on the remarkably
able review of the Wilson Administra
Hon delivered by ex-Senator Elihu
Root at the opening of the New York
State Convention. And hardly had
the echo of Mr. Root's words died
away when Colonel Harvey, ;Mr. Wil
son's friend comes out with the an
nouncement that Elihu Root is "the
foremost statesman now living in this
country or in the world." But Presi
ident Wilson is not without his apolo
gists suchas they are. Samuel Uter
meyer, the New York lawyer who figur
ed so odoriferously in the Guggenheim
divorce case, and in certain financia
transactions, has come out with a re
ply to Mr. Root which is also a pane
gyric of Mr. Wilson. Were not Mf
Wilsoa so completely encysted in his
own self complacency, even his sever
est critic would be inclined to extend
sympathy to a human being so defend
ed. For, to the unitiated be it known,
in his concepts and his practices Sam
Utermeyer is the complete antithesis of
Elihu Root. They are as far apart as
Beelzebub and the Prince of Peace
Wilson's Joint debate: Im
mediately after his return from his
preparedness" stumping tour, one of
President Wilson's enthusiastic ad
mirers in the Senate procured the pas
sage ol a resolution providing for the
printing at public expense of many
hundred thousand copies Mr. Wilson'
speeches on the tour. The Govern
ment Printing Office put them in type
and sent the proofs to the Whie House
There they were found to contain so
many conflicting and contradictory
statement that they resembled a joint
debate, rather than the utterances of a
single politician. Weeks have passed
and there the proofs remain, while Mr.
Wilson burns the midnight oil trying
so to edit them as superficially at least,
to reconcile his conflicting statements.
. House Comes Back: "Col. Ed
ward M. House, maker of Cabinets,
confidential adviser, and Ambassador
at-large in full charge without respon
sibility" is the manner in which Col
George Harvey, "the original Wilson
man" refers in the "North American
Review," to Mr. Wils.n's peripatetic
plenipotentiary who arrived in Wash
ington yesterday. Colonel Harvey
might have added the adjective un
constitutional, for the appointment of
Colonel House without ' the advice
and consent of the Senate" is unques
tionably a violation of the spirit ol the
Constitution, as is a reflection on the
men appointed to the diplomatic corps
by Mr. Wilson and an open confession
ol Mr. Wilson's own distrust of
them. Had Mr. Wilson permitted the
competent Ambassadors and Ministers
whom he found in office to retain their
places until the clo-e of trip Eurnptan
War, or had he chosen their successors
with a view to their fitness and ability,
instead cf solely horn political expedi
ency, hir irould hivr b'rn no oc
Casion to ;cnd Col. Hsuse ; Europe
Patience Until November
Franklin K. 'Lane, Secretary of the
Interior, has taken to discussing for
eign affairs, using Harper's Weekly as
his medium of expression. He coun
sels the people to be patient and lik
ens President Wilson to an attorney
into whose hands the nation has com
mitted its cause. S.ch a man should
be trusted by his client, is Mr. Lane's
argument.
We imagine, however, that il Mr
Lane, in the days when he himself was
practising law, had permitted a client
td be non-suited at every point, h
would have regarded the client as
justified in voicing displeasure with
the manner in wich his case had been
eandled. So with Mr.' Wilson. The
people have trusted him to their dis
comforture.
Mr. Lane may be sure that this ad
vice will be followed. The people
will be patient with Mr. Wilson be
cause they have no present remedy.
Their, patience, however, will extend
only to the first opportunity to express
themselves potently. That opportun
ity will come in November on elec
tion day. We shall be patient until
Nm,mter.
Looking Forward
There is a tendency on the part of
some writers to belittle the importance
of economic questions in the coming
presidential campaign, and to empha
size the importance of foreign policies
as a campaign issue. It is probably
true that the foreign relations of this
Government will be in the spotlight
for many months to come, but unless
the voters of this country are afflicted
with economic astigamatism they will
weigh carefully the questions of our
future trade and industry before casting
their ballot. Humanity is still in the
bread and butter stage.
There are two factors of prime im
portance in the consideration of these
very practical questions: First, the
plans now being perfected abroad for
trade combinations; and, second ,the
fact that our greatest trade rival' Ger
many, willemerge from the European
struggle industrially unscathed, and
with an army of men clamoring for
work at any wage
England has jettisoned her free trade
policy. During the middle of the 19th
Century, when her mechanical inven
tions had made it possible to control
anr market which would give free ac
cess to her wares, it became highly
important that she operate under a
free trade policy, a condition precedent
to inducing other countries to do like
wise. The so-called school of Man
Chester, of which Cobden was the
chief exponent, inaugurated a free
trade propaganda which very nearly,
but not quite convinced Germany that
open ports spelled sound economics,
and which quite thoroughly convinced
a large number of people in this coun
try that free trade was the proper thing.
That was during the period when
the South was a purely agricultura'
section. The adherence of the South
to this free trade conviction has lei
sened in an inverse ratio as the de
velopment of agricultural industries
has progressed in Dixie. At that
time the South sold a large share ol
her products .'to England, where they
were made up and came back to us in
the farm of finished materials. It is a
true statement that in many cases the
agricultural industries of the South
were utilized by Gteat Britain to break
down the manufacturing industries of
the North. Whenever, for instance,
an attempt was made to build up our
cotton textile industries' England, with
cotton goods manufactured from South
ern raw material, would drive our cot
ton manufacturers into bankruptcy by
dumping her goods on our market at
prices ridiculously low. That is one
ol the reasons why the protective pol
icy took firm root in the North. But
England fears German competition
after the war. She was experienceing
it prior to the war. Today her return
to the protective policy needs but the
affirmative action of Parliament. The
country is well nigh unanimously
agreed on protection.
Every student of trade who has re
turned from Germany during the past
year declares that the cessation of war
wil! find Germany stripped to the loins
and ready f.r the biggest commercial
campaign ever staged on this planet.
And Austria is going to do teamwork
with Germany. The two nations are
perfecting trade combinations, and
the Governments themselves will enter
into active partnership in all industries.
State socialism is the plan.
And little Japan is sawing wood.
Her wage scale is one-twelfth that of
this country, and her industries are
are being imperalized. The end of
the war will find Japan the mistress of
the Pacific while we are still growling
about the seaman's act.
In the face of all these considerations,
what reasonable voter will fail to give
heed to future economic policies?
What sensible roan will cast his vote
for a near free trade, vacilliating, theor
izing, impractical Democracy? We
must sh'm men of affairs on our next
voyage, and they will be found in the
Republican party.
Our Faitn in Drugs
P. T. Barnum said, "The American
people like to be humbugged." In
no other way is this statement of the
great showman so well proved as by
the demand for medicines and the
blind faith the average person puts in
drugs.
We import into this country every
year more than 8100.000,000 worth of
drugs or chemicals used in making
drugs.
We consume more than $500,000,-
000 worth of drugs every single year.
Can any reasonable person believe
that there is any necessity for this, or
that it can do anything but harm?,
asks Dr. M. P. Ravenel of the depart
ment of preventive medicine of the
Univetsity of Missouri at Columbia.
When we consider patent medicines,
the increase in their manufacture and
use has been even more surprising.
in 1879, there were 620 factories
making patent medicines, and the
value of the output was $16,885,493.
n 1909, there were 3,642 establish
ments, and the value of the output
was $141,941,602. During this per
iod the population of the country had
incieased from 50,000,000 to 92,000.-
000. The population had increased
only 82.3 per cent, ahereas the out
put of patent medicines had increased
740 per cent.
It is known that most of these drugs
are taken by people without the ad
vice of a physician and without any
special knowledge as to their proper
use, either as to quantity or as to per
iod of time during which they are tak
en. It goes without saying that a
drug which is powerful enough to pro
duce effects in illness must produce
ill effects in health when taken over a
considerable period of lime or in large
doses. It has been well said that
when we give medicines, "we are put
ting drugs of which we know little, into
bodies of which we know less." The
blind faith which the majority of people
have in the efficacy of medicines is a
a great evil. It is worse where drugs
are taken in preparations the compo
sition of which we do not know. Many
people take large amounts of alcohol
and opiates without knowing it, and
drug habits are acquired in this way.
The Harrison Anti-Narcotic Law has
had good effect, but has not entirely
abolished this evil.
As an actual matter of fact, there
are not more than a dozen drugs which
have a marked and specific effect on
disease. Striking examples are:
Quinine, which is a specific poison for
the malarial germ; mercury and cer
tain preparations of arsenic, which
destroys the germ syphilis. Treatment
and diet are more efficacious in the
cure of most diseases than are drugs.
The great majority of diseases are self
limited, and get well themselves, and
the effort of a concientious physician
is to assist nature in bringing about
the cure. Drugs have little effect in
most diseases except for the relief
of symptoms. When used at all, they
should be given under the direction of
a competent physician. It is imper
ative that the composition of medi
cines and the dosage should be known
J. H. PARRISH. President. J. W. REESE, Vice-President.
S. W. BOSWELL, Cashiee.
TANEY COUNTY BANK,
Forsyth, Missouri.
Capital Stock
Surplus and Undivided Profits
$25,000.00.
$40,000.00.
A (it-noral Rankiug Business Transacted
Collections a Specialty Your Patronage Solicited
0SK59SBEESS33!
J. 13. MILLS, President
M. 13. SLUSHER, Cashier
Wilson's mind may still be "single
track," as he once bescrfbed it but
no one can say that it is not provided
with excellent switching facilities.
Producers of zinc and manufacturers
of zic products are among those very
numerous people who Save reaped
large profits from the demand for zinc
needed for the European war. In
1913 our exports of zinc and zinc
manufactures amounted to only a little
more than $1,000,000. In 1915 the
exports amounted to $33,500,000, or
an increase of more than 3200 per
cent. Laborers in zinc mines, in
smelters, and in factories have reaped
their share of profits. When they
read the statistics presented by the
Department of Commerce they can
have no doubt as to the cause of the
revival in their industry.
Chancellor Day ol Syracuse Univers
ity suggests if our coast cities were
succesfully attacked it would be prac
ticable for the whole population ol the
United States take to the woods.
"Where are those woods," Democrats
re asking.
Bank of Bradleyville
Bradleyville, Mo.
Capital Stock Paid In,
Surplus Earned,
$10,000.0?
2,OOO.oo
Collections a Specialty
WE SOLICIT YOUR BUSINESS
1. 1'. MELTON, K. G MILLS, J. 13. MILLS,
J. T- MlTHEKSON, M. 13. SLUSHliR, Directors
Home of the Big Black Bass
Fine Place to Fish Fine Place to Stop
Hotel Forsyth,
Forsyth, Mo.
Rates $2.00 per Day
S. E. MILLER,
Proprietor.
Agency Frank B. Smith Laundry
a esse
The Nelson Hotel
J. W. NELSON, Proprietor
One-Half Block South of the Court House.
Rates $1.00 per Day
First Class Accommodations.
A Good Feed Stable in Connection.
I3EGSESI
Room With Bath,
$1.25 to $1.50
Room Without Bath,
75c to $ J. 00
THE
METROPOLITAN
Springfield's Oldest First Class Hotel
Jesse Nance, Manager
"MEET ME AT THE MET."
Springfield,
- - Missouri
