PUTNAM COUNTY HEEAL
0,
VOLUME XIV.
COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE, THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1916,
NUMBEu 11
GOV. RYE ANNOUNCES
To the Democrats of Tennessee:
It has long been the custom In Ten
nessee for a governor to seek an en
dorsemet at the hands of the people.
Following this custom and humbly
trusting that my administration or
the affairs of state, in some measure
at least, merits such an endorsement
I hereby announce my candidacy to
succeed myself.
In making this aiinouncement I
am assuming that the party I have
the honor to represent will take no
backward step, but will adopt a plat
form declaring for needed progres
sive legislation and at the same time
strictly adhere to the principles of
the party, as announced by Its last
convention.
In entering the contest to succeed
myself, I appeal to the people who
believe that a platform pledge adopt
ed and advocated by a candidate on
the stump is a sacred covenant be
tween the candidate and the people,
ajnd who endorse the efforts I have
made to subserve the best interests
of the state by trying -to keep faith
with the people.
If a majority of my party believe I
am entitled to this consideration at
their hands, I shall greatly appreci
ate the honor and promise to make
the best fight I can to perpetuate the
principles of he party, as declared by
its last platform.
If some other policy antagonistic
to these principles must be the plat
form on which the fight is to be wag
ed for an endorsement at the hands
of the people, then I do not desire
nor would I accept a nomination if
tendered me.
With assurances of my profound
gratitude to the people of this state
for the honor they have done me, t
am, very respectfully,
TOM C. RYE.
COOKEVILLE THE BEAUTIFUL
Cookeville is naturally one of the
prettiest towns in Tennessee. Her
people are among the most progress
ive in Tennessee and are ever on the
alert to take advantage of every op
portunity to grow more beautiful and
be more progressive.
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Hargla of Wash
ington Ave. are the first citizens to
take advantage of the ordinance pass
ed recently by the wise fathers of the
city relegating the cow to pastures
green. The Hargis lawn has always
been one of the prettiest and best
ii c l in nit? ivffu auu luis 1 1 1 l tl n l im
provement (removing front fence)
Was the only thing lacking to com
plete lt3 beauty.
(Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Jenkins have
also had their front fence removed.
Editor.)
No town can hope to be beautiful
hearty co-operation of every man, wo
man and child in the town.
Cookeville people work together;
hence Its growth, prosperity and in
creasing civic pride.
The civic committee of the Parent
Teacher association, together with the
mayor and board of aldermen, will
have some interesting announcements
to make within a few days.
SECRETARY P.-T. A.
BUFFALO VALLEY ROUTE 1
Coualn8 Willie and Ida Jared 01
Silver Point come again
Uncle Bill Jared, was glad to read
your letter in the Herald.
Mrs. Mallie Bockman, who has
been confined to her room for some
time, is improving.
Misses Luclnda and Dora Burgess
visited tne writer this afternoon.
Born to Mr. and Mrs. Pasco Rob
inson, a six pound boy.
Cousin Maggie Jared of near .Bax
ter has been visiting friends ajid rel
atives In Gentry and Chestnut Mound
during the ptast week.
Miss Emma Fields' eyes are no
better.
I wonder If Arthur Robertson is
null praying BBiuaun.
ALICE ROBERTSON.
MUSCOGEE, OK LA.
farming Is the oreer of tho flay
now as it has been tmd weather so
long we could not work.
. Harvey Blankenshiphas been sick
but Is lots better. , v
Ova Lafever of R. 5 come on with
the news.
Delia Mills I hope you good tack
with your chickens.
Joe Blankenshlp is rejoicing over
an eight pound boy. The baby has
been named Rastus.
Raymond Burrows fills his regular
appointment at Miss Lambert's ev
ery Sunday afternoon.
John Brown and wife visited C. c
Johnson Sunday. - ,
There will be a quilting at Mrs.
Margaret Blankenshlp'a Saturday all
day and a prty at night.
Ollie Mills, come out to Oklahoma
Tight away if you don't you will oe
lerc - Mrs. Lizzie Blanxenshlp.
TELLS ABOUT HER WORK .
Following is an Interesting letter
from Gertrude Whitney, in which she
tells of her work in school at Chicago
My studies for classroom work ara
Pre-Exllic History and Prophecy,
which is self-explanatory, as are all
these below, Social Prqblems, Indi
vidual Evangelism, Ethics, the Social
Mission of the Church, Good Housing
and Club Management. Introduc
tion to Field Work is trips we "have
to make whereby we see others do
ing work and thereby acquainting
ourselves with the great problems
and needs the world is facing. For
instance, we visited Hull House, the
Union Stock Yards, United Charities
of Chicago, Registration Bureau, In
dustrial Churches, Playgrounds and
Parks, Community Centers, etc., etc.
Then we have Field Work, whicni
means doing the work ourselves, and
we have to go wherever our director
sends us. For Instance, I had charge
of a class of Bohemian children in a
community made up of twenty-five
nationalities, every Saturday before
Christmas. Thursday nights before
the holidays I played cornet at a
Rescue Mission for "down and out"
men. Besides doing some other lit
tle things, such as visiting at the
itefuge for Girls and helping with
them. This week I . have been help
ing in a revival at the Refuge. And
yesterday I was on the program at a
mothers' meeting in the Italian sec
tion. Again tomorrow night I am to
go to help at the Refuge. Next ween
I am on a program at a south Side
church and am also billed to go with
a sanitation officer on an inspection
trip. Tomorrow morning I go on an
inspection trip to a plumbing estab
lishment. These last trips are in
connection with Good Housing and
Social Problems.
In Social Mission of the Church I
have to write a 15 page paper on the
"Church Need of My Home Commu
nity." I. - Its Social Problems. II.
Assets of the Community. III. What
Constructive Forces are at Work.
IV. Make out a social program for the
church tending to make tne commu
nity good.
I am going to take dinner tonight
with my cousin, Mrs. Max Whitney,
whose husband died Dec. 8th. Many
cookevillians remember Max, as he
lived there with his father and moth
er for some time.
We have over 100 students training
for Foreign and Home Mission Work
and others training for Social Ser
vice, about 250 in all. All deeply
interested in training to give tho
best work possible to the Master by
understanding the neecs or His chil
dren according to the enlightenment
of the times. There is a spiritual at
mosphere here that is very uplifting
and one finds little time for anything
but Joy in service.
At seven o'clock a. m. we have
Morning Watch, which is gathering
in the corridors and singing for a
few minutes, followed by fifteen min
utes for prayer and meditation in our
rooms. Then breakfast. Following
this Is a delightful Chapel service
and then the lessons and library
work for the day, Saturday night
we have splendid prayer meetings in
the Chapel. Sunday afternoon at
four the most beautiful vesper ser
vice, where the school choir dress i
in white sing In the Processional,
with grand pipe organ accompani
ment. Some speaker gives a mes
sage and a short musical program is
given, after which the choir give the
Recessional, and as their "amen"'
dies away in the distance and the
night has lowered we go to the dining
room for our lunch. From there we
go to the student parlor for a half
hour of song before church time. We
are a'l allowed, to go to any church
we desire.
GERTRUDE WHITNEY.
PASTORS EXCHANGE PULPITS
Rev. R. J. Craig will exchange
pulpits with Rev. Fred B. Cox of Al
igod ' next Sunday, March 19. Mr.
Cox will preach at ; the Methodist
church at 11:00 o'clock and Mr. Craig
will preach at Algood at the same
hour. The public Invited.
: UNION REVIVAL 8ERVICES
A union evangelistic campaign will
commence at Algood Sunday night,
March 26. The congregations of the
Presbyterian and Methodist churcn
es will join In this meeting. Tho
preaching will be done. by. Revs.
Fount Smith and Fred B. Cox.
BAR ASSOCIATION
A number of the lawyers of Cooke
ville met last Thursday and organ
ised the Putnam County Bar Assocj
ation. xThos. Finley was elected as
president for one year and Ernest H.
Boyd secretary-treasurer. A com
mute was named to draft by-laws
for' the asssoclatlon. .
Let's not be trying to stop some
thing all the time; start something.
COMMITTEE MEETING
- The Democratic Executive Com
mittee of Putnam County is hereby
called to meet at the courthouse in
Coojkeville, Tenn., Saturday, March
18, 1916, at 1 p. m., for the transact
tion of such business as may properly
come before it. Important that you
be present
C. H. RICKMAN, Chairman.
JNO. H. CORNWELL, Sec.
SUNDAY SCHOOL SOCIAL
Last Friday night a congenial set
of people enjoyed themselves at the
First Presbytrian church with games
and refreshments. At 8:30 at the
Manse they, were highly entertained
by the farce "Dr. Cure All," which
was very successfully given by the
Prothean class, with the following
cast of characters:
Dr. Cure All Albert Smith
Maria Mrs. R. H. Harding
Mrs. Brown Verdte Ellis
Miss Jane Scrimpins, Gretchen Boyd
Mr. Alphonsso DeJones, Eugene Jared
Mrs. Rotchklns .... Marjorie Boyd
Miss Kate Rotchkin. .. Flossie West
Miss Seraphina Paddington
Willie DeRossett
Mrs. Scrawny Kennle Smartt
Mrs. Blooming,.... McGregor Smith
Manager, R. H Harding.
MISSIONARY SOCIETY
The Woman's Missionary Society
of the Methodist church met at the
home of Mrs. A. M. Gibbs Monday
afternoon at 2:30. After a devotion
al service of Bible reaaingy songs
and prayer, a short business meeting
was held. At this meeting the del
egates who attended the annual mis
sionary conference at Gallatin re
ported from their note books. Mem
bers and visitors listened interested
ly and attentively to these good ra
ports and caught much of the enthu
siasm and inspiration tnat Mrs.Craig
and Mrs. Dowell had gathered at the
conference. The next annual meet
ing goes to Pulaski
After the benediction by Bro.Cralg
Mrs. Gibbs and Miss Mary FranR
Huffmelster served delicious refresh
ments. Next meeting with Mrs. O.
t. Massa, March 20th.
EARLY CLOSING HOUR
Beginning April 1, 1916
The undersigned merchants or tho
city will close our doors at 6:30 each
evening except Saturdays, and wiU
sell no goods after that hour except
in cases of sickness or for burial
purposes.
JENKINS & DARWIN BROS.
COOKEVILLE MERCANTILE CO.
WILLIAMS, ELROD & MADDUX.
A. P. BARNES &SONS.
A PROCLAMATION
Whereas, serious charges have been made against those clothed with
the authority to administer Justice in the criminal courts of our Coun
ty of Shelby, which Involve the integrity, fidelity, character and the
commission of crimes in office by said officials; and much publicity
having bee given thereto by the press of the state and committees of
rcfttatle ettcttcje cf raid cemty hairg duly investigated raid:
charges and the commission of said crimes in office and find said
charges asustained by the proof and recommend that said officials be"
impeached by a court of competene Jurisdiction; and the charges be-,
tag of such a nature and character that in Justice to the Judiciary and
the splendid citizenship of the state on investigation by a court of
competent Jursdiction is absolutely imperative; and it appearing than
the General Assembly is clothed with constitutional authority to in
vestigate said charges to the end that the accused may be removed
from office if jguilty by the concurrent vote of both houses, or im
paeched by the House of Representatives and tried by the Senate as;
a court of impeachment after proper notice, etc., according to the
provisions of the constitution herein referred to. - . .
Now, therefore, I, Tom C. Rye, governor of Tennessee, by virtue of
the power in me invested by Section 9, Article III of the Constitution;
of .Tennessee, do, by this proclamation, hereby convene the General
Assembly of the State of Tennessee in extraordinary session, to bef
held in the capltol in the City of Nashville, on Tuesday, the 21st day'
of March, A. D. 1916, at 12 o'clock noon, for the purpose of consider-!
ing the following legislative business and duties, to-wit:
First To inquire into the official conduct and fidelity of circuit
and criminal court Judges and district attorneys for the state, charged
with the enforcement of the laws of this state, ad more especially thej
official conduct, fidelity of, and the commission of crimes in office by
Judge Jesse Edglngton, the regularly elected and qualified Judge of
division 1 of the criminal court of Shelby County, and of Z. Newton.
Estes, the regularly elected and qualified attorney-general for Shelby"
County, and if the facts warrant, to remove either or both of them in
accordance with Article VI, Section 6, of the Constitution of the State
of Tennessee, or to impeach either or both of them In accordance with
the 'provisions of Article V, Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the Constitution.
Second From sources apparently authentic I am advised that cer
tain influences have undertaken the task of organizing a lobby with ,
sufficient operating capital to aid the Legislature in reaching Just and '
proper conclusion with reference to the matters of this call. We may
concede for the time being that these gentlemen are actuated alone
by a patriotic desire to see equal and exact Justice done ( according to
their unselfish and unbiased minds) and that they feel it incumbent
upon them to manifest an interest in all public affairs because of the
e elf-imposed task they seem to have assumed of shaping the princi
ples and policies and dictating the personnel of national, state, county .
and city governments.
, However, it is my opinion that the Legislature can and will be glad
to dispense with the valuable services of these gentlemen, or their
.representatives, In the matters to be considered by them under this,
call, and the matter would not be here referred to but for the fact that
the powers and duties of the General Assembly, in extraordinary ses-
. Bion, are limited and circumscribed, and in order that the General As
T sembly may, if necessary, be clothed with power to pass laws, resolu
tions ana ruies ana to appoint sucu committees as may do neceHHury
to investigate, try and punish' any voluntary, unwarranted or illegal
efiortuporo the part of ay person or persons either, for -or against an
accused, or to in any way seek to Interfere with the deliberations of,
the Legislature, or the Senate, in dealing with the matters embraced
within this call, such authority is hereby given. 1
I think I mistake not the sentiment of a general public when f say
that the time for outside and unwarranted interference, or attempted
interference, with lawmakers and law enforcers shall cease in Ten
nessee. -
Third To provide by appropriation for the payment of the neces
sary expenses of this extra session and of the court if Impeachment.1
. In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and-caused the
great seal of the State of Tennessee to be affixed thereto, at the cap
ltol in the City of Nashville, this the 11th day of March, A. D. 1916.'
and of the American Independence the one hundred and fortieth.
;
' By the Governor: R. R. SNEED
LOWE-WHITSON WEDDING
In the marriage of Miss Mary Alice
Whitson and Mr. Robert Witherspoon
Lowo Tuesday is the uniting of two
of the largest and best known fami
lies in Middle Tennessee. Tho cere
mony was said at noon in tho Church
of Christ, in the presence or severat
hundred friendo. Elder W. L. Karnes
officiating. Lohengrin's bridal chor
us was sung by Mrs. Herbert Carlen,
Misses Annie Minor, Maria Smith,
Riary Jared, Frances Ford, Marie
Kerr, Jennie Lee Williams, Mrs. R.
L. Maddux and Messrs. S. H. Young,
Austin Smith, John Cummins, Sam
Pendergrass and B. Murphy, conclud
ing a musical program or unusual
beauty.
The ushers were Messrs. John S.
Denton, Garrett Maxwell, John H.
Whitson, H. T. WhiUon, Walter L.
Whitson, Jesse Elrod, T. D. Ford, R.
L Farley, Tom Lowe, James Quarles,
Jere B. Barnes, W. A. Hensley, D. C.
Wilhite, Ben Clark, O. E. Cameron
and J. N. Cox, andMr. Gideon Lowe,
brotner of the groom, was best man.
Miss Fanalou Whitson, sister of
the briae, was maid of honor, and
little Mary Frances Whitson as flow
er girl, preceded Miss Whitson and
ber fathT. The bride wore a tallow
ed suit of midnight blue, with trim
nJDgs of cloth of gold and hat to
match. After the ceremony Mr. and
Mrs. Lowe left for an extended east
ern trip. Many delightful prenuptlal
affairs have been given the bride.
Among those entertaining were Miss
j Frances Ford, with a miscellaneous
j shower, Misses 'Minor and Williams
with a kitchen shower, Mr. and Mrs.
j R. L. Maddux and Miss Jared with a
; reception, Mrs. H. T. Whitson with a
! luncheon, and Mr. and- Mrs. Jere
Whitson entertained the bridal party
: Monday evening after the rehearsal.
Upon the return of Mrs. Lowe Mrs.
C. A. Douglass and Mrs. Rutledge
( Smith will give a tea in her honor.
Mrs. Lowe is the oldest daughter
of Mr. and A-rs. Jere Whitson, and
since her young ladyhood has won
manytriends by her graciuos charm
and lovely disposition. She is a
graduate of Belmont College and a
young woman of rare ability. Mr.
Lowe is a son of Mrs. Gideon Lowe,
and is president of the Cookeville
Planing Mills Co.
Among the guests from a distance
were Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Denton, Miss
Mary Fair Denton of Franklin; Miss
es Marie Kerr and Sara Sudekum or
Nashville; Miss Mary Jared of Buf
falo Valley; Miss Ruth Nowlln of
Sparta, and Mrs. C. A. Douglass of
Aigood.-
1 1 TOM C. RYE, Governor.
Secretary of State. , ...
PARENT-TEACHERS
The Parent-Teachers Association
held its semi-monthly meeting in the
library of the city school Wednesday
afternoon, March 15. After the house
was called to order the president
called for a report from the Civic de
partment As Mrs. Wilson, chairman
of this department, was present she
read the resolutions to be presented
to the mayor and aldermen respect
tuny soliciting their cooperation.
There wore several suggestions madu
to aid the City Beautiful work. Ev
erybody is enthusiastic over this
work and hearty cooperation can ac
complish what is wanted and needed.
The report from the Music depart
ment was next in order, Rnd Miss
Mamie Morgan, chairman of that de
partment, reported that a Nashville
firm had already placed a piano in the
auditorium of the city school on trial,
and they wished to give it a thor
ough tiial. Miss Morgan appointed
as Finance committee Mrs.J.H. Car
len, Mrs.H.H.Haggard, Mrs. J. Rich
Thomas. She wants them to consult
with the Lyceum manager and flnfl
out what per cent, of proceeds will
go into their fund by taking charge
of the "Mock Wedding," which is
coming. She also appointed Miss
Bertha Ensor chairman of Musical
Programs, and she to select her help
ers, and any time the Parent-Teachers'
Association needed music to no
tify Miss Ensor.
The following committee was ap
pointed to drew up a constitution and
by-laws: Mrs. H. H. Haggard, Mrs.
W. M. Shanks, Mrs. Rutledge Smith,
A.rs. B. G.Adcock, Mrs. Alfred Al
good, with Mrs. Algood as chairman.
By suggestion of Mrs. Rutledge
Smith a departn ent or the Associa
tion is to ha known as the Centra
High School department, and Mrs.
Fred White chairman, with Mrs. Al
fred Gibbs assistEmt.
The delegates for the Mothers" Na
tional Congress, which is to meet In
iNashviilQ early in April, were the
president, Mrs. W. R. Carlen, and
Mrs. O. K. Holladay, with Mrs. Al
fred Algood as alternate. Delegates
to the State Federation or Women's
Clubs, which will meet In Chattanoo
ga in May, were Mrs. Rutledge Smith
and Miss Mamie Morgan, with Miss
Kate Williams and Mrs. Algood Car
len as alternates. Miss Laura Cope
land was appoitted chairman of the
Library committee. The following
ladies were placed on tne Extension
of Membership committeeMrs. B.G.
Adcock, Mrs. Alfred Algood, Mrs. T.
J. Gregory, Mrs. Rutledge Smith,
Mrs. A. M. Gibbs Mrs.. Thos. Finley.
The president suggested as the Lt
brary is to be the permanent meeting:
place that each member donate some
thing to beautify the room and make
it an attractive meeting place.
In order to raise some much need
ed money the sasociation is going to
give a spelling match. Adjourned to
meet March 29, 1916. All members
invited to be present.
MRS. ALGOOD CARLEN,
Secretary pro tern.
REPUBLICAN HARMONY
At a harmony caucus by Republi
can leaders, held in Nashville last
week, it appears that Hooper and
Sanders got Sam Ram and Alabama
Dick's goat. The compromise pro
vides that J. Willie Taylor succeed
Jay Simp Beasley as chairman of the
state committee, and that John 3.
Gore is to be national committeeman
Instead of Sam Ram. Claiborne Co.
Progress.
Above Is the expressed view of a
good Republican paper on the present
arrangements in that party.
8TRANGE AFFLICTION
A case of complete color blindness
was discovered at the naval recruit
ing station at Philadelphia recently
when Patrick McKenna, an applicant
for enlistment, called off each green
tinted yarn skein used for the test,
as orange or. yellow, when held up to
his view. McKenna was rejected for
color blindness and advised to keep
close to his room on March 17th. '.
RED BOILING SPRINGS
, A few months ago I had the pleas
ure of visiting relatives and friends
In and 'around CooXevllle. I beg to
state that I enjoyed my visit very
much and was also very much , im
pressed with the town o? Cookeville.
In the language of the street you cer
tainly have some town. In fact, you
have good churches, good schools and
good everything; but I observed a
few old Democrats around there who
are somewhat like Kentuckians are
by their whistey that Is they take
It straight Among the people I met
while there was Mr. Wire, the Junior
member of the . Herald force. He
seems to be a model young man. I
will venture to say when the smoke
of battle clears away and genuine
prosperity comes again there will be
a ' bright future for Cookeville.
. J. R. KINNAIRD.
ML View Lodge. No. 179. I. O. O. F.
held a splendid meeting on March
11 th, 1916. Jas. H. McCulley, N. G,
presiding, with a good attendance.
Quite a lot of routine business was 1
disposed o.
Bio. Chas.i Bradford is still Im
proving slowly.
Bro. J. H. York was reported to
be afflicted with something similar
to his pellagra of about three years
ago. By several it is tnougnt to be
caused by handling hot boards at the '
veneer factory a kind of steam poi
son. Nevertheless, he is reported
in a serious condition.
Om the 6th inst. Willard Clarence
Garrison, one of our wards at the
I. O. O. F. Home, 10 years of age,
was electrocuted while playing with
an abandoned telephone lino wirey
The matter seems mysterious anc?
inexplicable by tho Home manage
dnt. He was brought here for bur
ial on Tuesday, the 7th, and waa
buried on the 8th inst. beside hla"
father in the Pippin graveyard.
The initiatory was conferred upon
one applicant. Two petitions were
received and referred, one for initio-
tory and one for membership by
transfer. Several communication
were read and filed. Next meeting
is on Friday night. Let's have a
full meeting.
FAMILY REUNION
The children and grandchildren of
Robert Peek planned a surprise reun
ion at his homa in West Cookeville ox
March 6, which was quite a success.
All the children were present except
Mr3. A. L. Boatman, she being sick.
Those, present were Prof. V. D. Peek,
ol Brevard Institute, Brevard, N. C;
IV P. Peek of Florey, Texas; J. B.
Peek of Pleasant Hill; Mr. and Mrs.
S. M. II. Taylor and daughter, Jessie;
Mr. and Mrs John Pointer and little
sons; Mrs. Ollie Peek, and Misses
Cora and Alice Boatman of Algood. '
All enjoyed the social hours and tales .
of days gone by. v
FOR KILLING OF JOHN 3... WEST
Three Men Arrested for Alleged Mur
der of Revenue Officer
This (Friday) morning government
officials arrestod Everett Herd, Georg
Carr and Wash Carr, all llvllng near
Uoma, on charge of killing John S.
West, a revenue officer who was killed.
In a raid during February, 1915. The
arrests were made byDeputy Marshals
W. H. Tlyer and H. M. Hughes and
Deputy Collector C. N. Gracey. Tho
prisoners were brought to Cookeville
.and then taken to Nashville, and ,'
will have a preliminaryheartng before
Commissioner J. B. Barnes In Cooke
vil'e next week Saturday. f
TROUBLE WITH MEXICANS
A body of Mexican brigands sup
posed to belong to Villa's command
raided the town of Columbus, N. M,
Thursday and killed a number of citi
zens and soldiers. Over 100 of the
Mexicans were killed and the balance
escaped. United States troops have
followed them into Mexico and seri
ous trouble may result.
DEMOCRATIC MASS MEETING
A mass meeting of Putnam county
Democrats Is hereby called to meet
in the courthouse' In CookevUle,Tenn.;
on Monday, April 3, 1916, at one o
clock p. m. for the purpose of elect-
ins delegates to the state convention
to assemble In Nashville on May IT,
1916, and to transact any othr bust
ness that may properly come before
the meeting. .
March 8. 1916.
C. H. RICKMAN, Chairman.:
BURGLARS AT ALGOOD v
Last Tusday night burglars broke
Into the store of the Algood Drug Co.
and stole quite a lot of Jewelry and .
other goods. There have been n
arrests as ,yet, . , 'iteasCA'i tfT
BUFFALO VALLEY - ROUTE T vT'
I live oer mile 'north of OeritiV'anrP
........ ..Lf'C -i'.'I: '
nave oeen living nere- ure-munuM.
I like the? place and people' fine." "
MrJ and 'Hrr,' Oaridnfl Flekb ' hay ir"
gonf lo keeping hBe again 'arte ?
having-thelr Kom& destroyed' by' ffreC5' .
Born to Mr. and Mr. .Taylor
Thompson March' l?!s boy.Vnm ' ' 7 ,
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Brown and
little soil visited Mr. and Mrs. Early
Elrod : Saturday night. ; '
Garland Klnnair'd of Kearney, Mo,
I would like to hear from you; .
Mr. ChailHs B. Knsor 'and Miss '
Pearl ; Huddiestoa of Gentry war
married 8unday. ..:
Come again cousin Molllo Dahuff.'
we miss your letters. ' , - V
Papa we are still looking for yo
and mama to come.
I will ask for a shower of birthday '
cards March 23. I will be 19, and.
all cards will be appreciated.
MRS. MAUDE THOMPSON.
