. State Historical Society
7 Mexico
ssouri Message
; On your label Is a date;
Renew before it Is too late.
VOLUME 17
MEXICO, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1910.
NUMBER IT.
M
-
rrT TTKV- , . " . -i .'
JUDGE BARNETT
DIED FRIDAY
Hud Served In This Circuit 11 Years
Pause Away In Hb. IOuis
Audrain Attorneys Pay Respects
Judge J. D. Barnett, who had been
Judge of the Eleventh District 11
years, died in a hospital in St. Louis
Friday night where he had been for
treatment for several weeks. He
had throat trouble which Anally af
fected his heart.
Judge Barnett was a good man.
He was a bachelor and lived with bis
sister at Montgomery City. He was
68 years old, and was a devoted
Catholic. The body was brought to
Montgomery City for burial.
At a meeting of the Audrain coun
ty Bar in the Circuit Court room Sat
urday morning a motion prevailed
that the Bar and officers of the Court
attend Judge Barnett funeral in a
body. a
S. D. Stocks, E. A. Shannon and
W. W. Fry, Jr., were appointed as a
committee to purchase a suitable
floral offering for the funeral.
A committee to draft memorial res-
. olutlons to be spread upon the
records of the Circuit Court, the
County Court and the Probate Court
and to be presented to the Appellate
Courts and Supreme Court was nam
ed "as follows: A. C. Whitaon, R. D.
: Rodgers, Clarence A. Barnes, . S.
Gantt and W. W. Fry.
Upon motion Circuit Clerk E. F.
Elliott was .instructed -to . drape the
chair and bench in the 'court room
and Sheriff Barnett was asked to
have the Courthouse bell tolled dur
ing the hour of the funeral.
The following from Mexico were
among those who attended the funer
al: V. W. Fry, W. W. Fry, Jr., J. T.
Ricketts, E. A. Lawrence, Circuit
Clerk E. F. Elliott and wife, M. R.
jWise and wife, Prosecuting Attor
pew 'A. C. Whitson, E. S. Gant, S.
D. Stocks, Miss Lela TInsley, Deputy
Circuit Clerk, and H. H. Grafford,
County Treasurer. J. S. Gatson of
Vandalia, E. C. Kennen and W. H.
Logan of Laddonia also atteded from
this county.
Montgomery City.Mo., March 13.
The funeral of James D. Barnett, Cir
cuit Judge of this district, who died
in St. John's Hospital, St. Louis, Fri
day, was held at the Church of the
immaculate Conception today and was
one of the most largely attended in
the history of Montgomery county.
Father T. J. Ayiard, pastor of the
church here; Fathers J. J. Head, J.
J. Dillon, J. A. Gadell, Wm. Moran
and Father Adelbert, all of St. Louis,
and. Father J. T. Tuohy of Jonesburg,
took part in the services.
The funeral oration was delivered
b'y Father Head, who had been a per
sonal friend of Judge Barnett for 42
!years. Delegations from St, Louis,
Mexico, Wellsville, Jonesburg and
I other towns were present. The bar
of the 11th Judicial District and the
Cobs Club attended in a body.
- Rev. W. A.- Shulenberger, pastor of
the Christian Church of this city, has
resigned and will become pastor of a
church in Des Moines, Iowa. His Io
wa church has a membership of about
2,000, and he will get a salary of
$3,2000 per year.
Kiley Wllkerson, out Molino way,
one of the best fellows we know any
where, presented the Message with a
sack of apples Monday, the biggest
and best fruit in that line grown in
Missouri. Mr. Wllkerson knows how
to grow them and how to grow the
good 'kind, too.
DUNCAN WINS.
He Is Candidate for State Senator
From Tills District.
I
..Troy, Mo., March. 13. Jesse. J.
Duncan of Silex and Brevator J.
Creech of Troy, Democratic candi
dates for State Senator from the 11th
Senatorial District, two weeks ago
agreed to a mall primary, the one re
ceiving the highest vote to have the
nomination from Lincoln County,
which is equivalent to the nomina
tion for the district, which goes to
Lincoln County fhls time by rotation.
The time for the count expired Sat
urday, and the official count showed
757 votes for Duncan and 703 for
Creech, Duncan winning by 64 votes.
The district includes Lincoln,
Pike and Audrain.
DEMOCRATS IN CONVENTION.
Glad to see Henry Lee out again I
He has been under the weather and
we missed hearing his violin these 1 1"" Resolution and Elect Delegates
nice evenings. I to The Slate Convention.
Clyde Shoup, north of town, has
the measles. None in town as yet. The Audrain County Democratic'
The Underwood sale Saturday was Convention was called to order at the
well attended. Streets were dry ourt ue w Mexico Tuesday at
PROK. PRYOU WRITES.
Mexico's Superintendent of Schools
Down East, lb New York.
Mr. Duncan was in Mexico yester
day, mixing with the voters. The
Lincoln and Pike County Conventions
adopted resolutions last Monday en
dorsing his candidacy.
RUSH HILL LETTER
Streets Have Light, Hut Want "More
LiKht" The Cackle of HensT"
enougn Sunday lor autos. We no
ticed several and all kinds of fords.
A.S.Davis bought the jack sold at
Uuderwood's sale or $180.00.
Mr. Buckner shipped a car of cat
tle fro Rush Hill to Ortiz Tuesday,
ternoon. E. C. Waters of Vandalia
presided. The following delegates
and alternates wen elected' to at-
tend the Convention at St. Joseph:
Mexico W. W. Johnson, Dr. R,
W. Berrey. Dr. P. E. Coll. Dr. J. F.
L.F.Peery, second trick operator Harrlson; alternates: S. D. Byrns, W.
for the C.& A., also motor cycle ex
pert, nas nis cycle an steamed up
in waiting for the word go. Any
one who has a faint idea that he can
pass Peery, Just try it sometime and
he will show you what real going Is,
Lots of oats sown latter part of
last week. Some wheat fields have
been and will be sown In oats, wheat
damagd by the severe winter.
Jack Hall has the grippe.
No use trying to get us over the
phone any more, too many hens set
ting now days. We have some, first
S. Eller. A. C. Whitson and R
ltcflgers.
Saling Frank Canada. Alter
nate, Stanley Palmers.
Loutre C. T. Peyton. Alternate,
J. B. DeVault.
rrairie J. J. Johnston. Alter
nate, E. J. Shobe.
Wilson Judge E. J. Sims. Alter
nate, Dr. W. T. Todd.
Cuivre G. B. Moore and Judge
J- D. Sutton. Alternates, Fred B.
Detienne and J. F. Parker.
Salt River Taylor Berrey. Alter-
Rush Hill, Mo., March 14. We are
having real winter again. Glad we
planted our lettuce and radishes yes
terday.
. .C. L. Smallwood's baby is still
quite sick. We hope for Its speedy
recovery.
Rev. Robinson ot Vandalia preach
ed two splendid sermons at the Union
Churchunday.
Moving is the order of the day
now. j. a. Harper and wife moved to
the P. S. Underwood farm, north of
town. Mrs. Mary Neal and son have
moved to the country. Tuck Myers
and family moved to Uncle Billy
Sims' residence on Fourth Street.
Ote Bernard will shortly leave for
Laddonia, as he has third trick at
the C. & A. station at that place.
F. B. Howard and family moved here
from Vandalia. He is our new black
smith.
Howard, eldest son of H. G. Arm
strong has been quite sick. j
time we can get the line we are go- nate- John J- Wakefield.
to tell you how many. Delegates at large, Lute Diggs of
We have lights for our street Li:l" and Fred A. Morris of Mexico.
again; quite ahelp. Glad to receive as 1 ne reso'uons endorsed the ad-
much light as we have for our streets niinistration of Woddrow Wilson,
and In the near future we hope to commended Senators Stone and Reed
have more light. Also have the grav- and sPeake" Champ Clark for their
el for the new crossing; which will be efforts t0 further the President's
another help to our town, and some Pliciea and instructed for Gov. E. W.
still say our town Is not improving. MaJr for Vice-President and indors
ed Mr. Major's State administration.
Santa Fe has a new newspaper, " B' uanl 01 Mexico was also warm-
called The Progress. It's a fine little ly enaorsei r appointment to fill
sample, and we wish it abundant sue- the vacancy In the 11th Judicial Dis
cess. It's going to" help Santa Fe trlct' cauaed by the death of Judge
move to the front.
I J. D. Barnett.
The Democrats of Gant voting pre
cinct at their meeting Saturday
passed resolutions endorsing J. K.
Pool for Secretary of State. The del
egates to the county convention in
Mexico Tuesday were: Judge E. J.
Sims, Dr. W. T. Todd and Joseph
Berry.
Nelson Carter's horse fell with
him Monday and he suffered a badly
bruised shoulder and knee.
Lawrence Wlnas of Austin, Texas,
is here on a visit to his parents, Dr.
and Mrs. T. H. Winans.
"The University Girls" have some
new siums ior me unauiauqua.Marcn Santa Fe is working for school
21, at the Methodist church, and for consolidation. It would give the
10 and 20 cents, too.
Published Long Time Ago
At Kingston, January 4, 1800
good little town a high school to
combine a number of districts ad
joining her.
Mrs. J. G. Ford, who recently un
derwent a serious operation at the
Hospital, 'is now recovering nicely.
Little Miss Loraine Ford is spend
ing a fortnight with her aunt, Mrs.
Will Sullivan, of East Monroe street.
Master Philip Bell of this city re
ceived an announcement of Califor
nia Orange Day on March 18 from his
cousin, Miss Louise Fullen, who lives
in Azusa, California. On that day
everyone is invited to enjoy the fine
flavor of California's staple fruit.
See "Ross Crane" draw cartoons
at the Chautauqua Tuesday night if
you want to laugh till you weep.
THE ULSTER COUNTY GAZETTE, A NEWSPAPER 1 16 YEARS OLD,
NOW IN POSSESSION OF E. E. CANTRELL, MEXICO'S SOUTH
SIDE HARDWARE MAN. '
E. E. Cantrell, of the southside Hardware Store, who Is now con
ducting a "Booster. Club" campaign, shows the Message a copy of
the Ulster County Gazette, the original copy of a newspaper printed
at Kingston, N. Y., January 4. 1800, by Samuel Freer & Son. The
paper Is a four column folio replete with news.
Then, as now, there were wars and rumors ot war. An English ac
count of the battle of Zurich was given. A short summary gives:
"Auatro- Russians defeated with the loss of several thousand billed,
wounded and taken." The Ffench army of the Rhine defeated the
Ausrtlans with the loss' of 3000 killed their loss, 1000."
"The Spanish frigate, having on board upwards of three million
and a half dollars, besides merchandise, was taken by British frigates.
The British frigate Latlne, of 39 guns, was lost.' She had on
board halt a million. 200,0001 was insured. "She was bound tor
Hamburg to clear commercial failures in that city. Crew perished
with the exception of two. f
The paper gives a graphic account of the entombment of Washington,
the Great "The Father of his Country and the Friend of man" with
"sound ot artillery and band ot music which with mournful melody
melted the soul with all the t.endersess ot woe.
This well preserved sheet gives the speech of the presi
dent,, John Adams, on the opening of Congress together with the
Senate's reply. This paragraph sounds quite up-to-date-lsh: "When
we reflect upon the uncommon nature, extent, and aspect of the war
now raging In Europe; which affects materially our relations with the
powers at war, and which has changed the conditions ot those colonies
our neighborhood: we are of opinion with you, that it would be neither
wise or safe to relax our measures of defence or to lessen our
preparation to repel aggression.
This Interesting relic, preserved by bis father, Z. D. Cantrell, ot
Clinton, 111., is highly priced by its present owner.
n Bam inti a womaa at wrneo, nausas, possesses a similar copy. Tho careless sneezer is the great
made, thus giving reproductions of from which zink etchings have been grip spreaders,
is one of the very rart copies in ex-thls rare old print Mr.Cantrell's copy
istence. Open air is tha best iDrlnc tonic.
One Joy Night Chautauqua Tues
day night at the Methodist church,
20 cents tor big and 10 cents for lit
tle folks.
Wm. Peak and wife have moved
from Mexico to Molino to live with
their son-in-law, E. W. Vanlanding-
bam. Mexico loses two very fine citi
zens in Mr. and Mrs. Peak.
We call attention to the announce
ment of C. M. Fox as a candidate tor
County Assessor in this issue of the
Message. He's a very fine fellow and
will have a large following in the primary.
Livingston Hall, N.V., March 11,1916.
- Dear Mr. Beal:
It is a long step from the life of an
active superintendent of schools .at
Mexico to the life of a student in Co
lumbia University, New York. Life
in pigeon hole, no. 918,' on the ninth
floor of a New York sky scraper is
quite different from life with my
family in the comfortable cottage on
Woodlawn. I may also add that the
dining service in a Missouri 'home
presided over by a southern home
making expert is also somewhat dif
ferent from the cafaterias and auto
matic lunches in New York. However
I am becoming adjusted to the new
way of living and have time and en
ergy for a short message to the peo
ple at home.
I wish to endorse, most heartily
the action of the Board of Educa
tion in providing for the physical ex
amination of the children at school
I trust that this may mark the be
ginning of the movement at Mexico
to conserve the health and strength
of our children. There has been no
more important movement In educa
tion during the last two decades than
that of the conservation of the health
of school children by regular medical
inspection of schools. This move
ment has gained such headway that
there are over five hundred cities in
the United States today that are do
ing regular and definite work along
this line. It has passed the earlier
stage ot "medical Inspection" and has
entered the field of preventative med
icine.. Its kynote is the cultivation of
the health of all and the prevention
of defectiveness In any - by the hy
gienic supervision of all school ac
tivities.
A few quotations from a' new
book on Public School Administra
tion, published last month, by Prof.
E. P. Cubberly, of Leland Stanford
University, one of the foremost au
thorities in the United States on
school problems, will carry convic
tion as to the importance of the
movement. "Only about four per
cent of the school children, statistics
show, need to be excluded in any one
year on account of contagious dis
eases, while fifty or sixty per cent
of the children suffer from non
contagious physical defects, which in
terfere more or less with educational
procedure, and which need to be ta
ken into account by school authori
ties The problem is how best
to conserve the child's native phys
ical vigor and to overcome, as far as
possible, bis hereditary or acquired
physical deficiencies, not only that
his progress in school may be normal,
but that he may develop into a strong
and sound human being, knowing
how to care for himself 'Re
sults obtained in many American and
European cities have clearly demon
strated that a very small added cost
from ten to seventy five cents per pu
pil per year, varying Bomewhat with
the kind of health service provided:
for a room of forty pupils and addi
tional daily expense ot from two to
sixteen cents per room will provide
a health service which will increase
the value ot the instruction ottered
out ot all proportion to its ac
tual cost."
Mexico has one of the best school
systems in the middle West and has
now reached a point, when, in my
judgment, it would be wise to give
more attention to the health ot the
children by the employment of a reg
ular nurse tor either part or full
time as the size of the school may
require.
Later, I hope to write ot some ot
the modern movements to education
which are attracting nation wide
plete reorganization. ot the school sya-:
terns ot some of our leading cities.
Herbert Pryor.
LOCAL OPTION
VIOLATION
One Man Sold Bitters and Caught
Kino Dr. Wren Assessed SAOO
Other Court Notes.
A Jury In the Circuit Court last
week found J. T. Gentle of Vandalia
guilty on one court of selling "Black
Hawk Bitters" in violation of the
local option law. The "Bitters" la
said to contain 20 per cent ahcohol.
There were eight counts against
Gentle at the start. The Prosecut
ing Attorney dismissed four of them
and left the other four to the deci
sion of the Jury. The Jury found
a verdict on only one out of the four
as stated. A motion has been fltut
for appeal.
Dr. w. A. Wren of Mexico was
fined $500 on a charge of violating
the local option law. He also has
filed a motion for appeal.
State vs. Thod Boulware, charged
with disturbing the peace, fined $25.
State vs. J. T. Gentle.
W. A. Wren, fined for violations
of the local option law, motions filed
for appeal.
MEXICO MAN HELD.
John J. Crotty, of the J. B. Evans
Construction Co. ot this city, is under
a $500 bond to appear before s cor
oner's Jury to Investigate tas 4eth
of James Winters of Toled. .Ohio,
who died in Mr. Crotty 's room Jn a
hotel in Chicago last week. David
H. Robertson of Mexico is Mr. Crot--
ty's attorney.
According to statements it Is
thought Winters died from the ef
fects ot alcoholic drinks;
OWEN-WICKERSHAM
Married at the residence of Mr.
L. Talbert, Mr. William R. Owen
and Miss Ina M. Wickersham. both.
of Auxvasse, Callaway County, Iter.
J. Griffin officiating. They are
both worthy young people sTnd their
many friends wish them" a prosper
ous and happy life.
Senator Gore in a speech in the U.
S. Senate: Whenever the honor,
whenever the vital interests of the
United States, whenever the essen
tial rights ot any America, Ulao
are violated or outraged, I ahaU go
as far as who goes farthest to place
at the disposal of the Commander in
Chief of the Army and the Navy
every available man and every avail
able dollar, whether that power be
Germany or any other nation under
the sun. As an American standing
for Americans only I have no choice
of enemies.
The State primary election is y be
held August 1st The general elec
tion will be November 7th.
Anxious times now down on the
Mexican border. Looks like there is
impending danger of War.
The Democratic meeting scheduled
to have been held in Mexico March
24 has been called off. A speaker
from Washington City was wanted
but he could not be had Just at this
time.
Robs Martin of the Rock Springs
Dairy has closed an arrangement with
the Kansas City market to take all
the surplus milk and cream In Aud
rain county this summer.
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $
$ Mexico Savings Bank $
$ 44th Year in Business $
$ Capital Stock. $150,000 $
$ W. W. FRY. President $
$ J. R. JESSE, Cashier. $
$$$$$ $$$$
