THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX -NO. 1.
HAHKH, VKHMONT, THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1910.
PRICK, OXE CENT.
J
TWO COLUMNS
OF U.S. TROOPS
PURSUE VILLA
Soldiers Crossed the Line
Yesterday and Camped
'Last Night but a Short
Distance South of the In
ternational Boundary
Line, Says Brief Despatch
FRENCH EXPECT
A NEW ATTACK
ON SOUTHEAST
Comparative Inactivity by
German Forces North of
Verdun Leads to - Belief
That New Move Is Planned
to Be Made in the Woevre
District
war last nit; lit lued the following an
nounccmcilt.
"The form under Major-General l'ey
ton yesterday reoccupled Solium, . th
Egyptian frontier port on the Mediler
rmu'itn near tits Tripoli frontier which
was e vacnated by ' the British lank De
cembcr. The enemy on the 13th blew
up their ammunition stores and on the
14th only offered Blint resistance,
BIG STEAMER
GOING DOWN
i
I ROYAL SECRETARY ENTERTAINED. !
The retreating enemy wa. auceeasful- But All PaSSengerS On Dutch 1, 'v.
CUa Gordon Cava Rousing Reception to
R. P. Gibb of Boiton.
After the regular meeting of Clan
(.onion, o. 12. (). H C, last evening tnu
doors of their hall were thrown open to
la rue gathering of young men eligible
to become members. The one purioe
to booat the member'
CARRANZA TROOPS
ARE CO-OPERATING
X
President Wilson Informed
That the Soldiers of the
De Facto Government Are
Giving Hearty Support to
Pershing's Troops Strict
Censorship On
in a southerly direction and these two
force ahoiilil be within touch or eaen
other before the end of the week. By
that time it i expected an infantry sup-
mirt will hold the linos of communication
along which motor truck for the trans
portation of ammunition and supplies
will be operated. Although the censor-
amp imposed i.y i.enarai runaion rjTp r?Tt VrniJ ",TTTC!
relaxed last niirht. efforts still were made Jblur r K&INLll UUIND
to Keen secret me uciaus oi me iin oi Tin nAnnfTvrr mnnnn
mnioaicra. the exact number of men en- JDUU-LUliN Kj
gaged, and their actual locutions.
General Pershing ban gone into Mexi
co with orders to overtake and wipe out
Villa and his organisation. Unless orders yn Tirnitr TTn T?Pfn T)f.
to the contrary are received from those V U" AirpiW XldS
posed as Head of the Ger-
Columbus, N: M, via mail to El Paso,
Tex, March 16. The American expedl
tion which entered Mexico yesterday
spent an uneventful night, cimped but a
short distance across the American line.
Pershing accompanied the first depart
ment as far as the border and then re
turned and with another part of the
troops entered Mexico to flank the main
army. Despite the rigorous censorship,
it became known that the number enter
ing Mexico was about 5,000.
Aeroplanes are believed to have passed
in with the expedition. The flying condi
tions are ideal. '
Cowboys from the ranges were en
rolled as scouts and the cavalry led the
way, followed by two infantry regiments, j
field artillery and a wagon train. The J
column is thoroughly equipped for all
conditions that might arise and repre
sented all arms of the service.
higher in authority than General Funs
ton, the campaign that was begun yester
day will continue until ilia is captured
or killed. No limits have been placed
on the field of operations. After the
campaign is well under way, it was
pointed out, circumstances may cause re
striction, but just now the troops are
prepared to go anywhere to carry out
the president s orders.
News that the expedition was under
way has reduced to a marked degree
the tension that was evident at. army
headquarters here during the earlier part
man Marine Department,
but Berlin States Officially
That It Means No Change
in Submarine Policy
One of the frequent pauses which have
of the day. It was expected that the characterised the German campaign for
troops would cross earlier in the day, but Verdun is again in evidence. After hav-
minor troop movements and other dc , made TuewUy t0 the wwt of
tails of organization1 delayed the start. .. w 7 '
There are now available in this de- th Meuse In th action of Dead Man's
partment for operations in Mexico more hill, the crown prince's forces have not
than 20,000 troops and if the plans for aeain advanced to the attack and no
recruiting the companies to full strength speedy resumption U indicted in this
aiu cuiiu-u oul linn nuuiin-i nm, a is
expected, be Quickly increased. Cavalry eciur.
posts have been relieved by infantry in Apparently mere is anticipation on tne
most, cases in order to provide a more part of the French that the next German
momie lorce in me pursuit or v ilia, ai- move uy to the 80Uthet of
yesterday there is a considerable force tb fortreM. Frencn un h-v n
of artillery which can 1 reinforced at extremely active along the heights of
anytime by several more batteries that the Meuse overlooking Woevre plain.
Vessel Tubantia Were
Taken Off
lv pursued by armed motor cars and cav
airy and camel corps, with the result
that 2H prisoner, including three officers,
and three guns and nine machine guns
were captured. About fifty of the ene
my. including three officers, were killed.
Their camp is now in our hands.
A quantity of gun ammunition and TnPPT7"nr TJC A TC MAW
- ,..,,, million n I- ,.r AJJJA U
ammunition and nearly one hundred rides SEARCHING FOR THEM T.
till vw
hip of this elan and restore it to its for
hut honorable place at the head of all
the clans in this conutry. The constitu
tion has recently been amended ao that
young men of sixteen and over may now
become clansmen. Perhaps the most in
teresting and important feature of last
evening a gathering was the visit of Roy-
al Secretary Thomas R. P. Uibb of Bos-
who came hern on an ofhcial visit
hold out the advantages of the
VON TIRPITZ GOES OUT.
...... ,i.,.iii
nriD iiiniiujiiii I I t ... a ...
I Irian as a fratnrnul ami lun.Pif. nrr'AtllyA
twn ill preference to any other. The
large hall was completely filled with
a.. - ... Onp TJpnnrf. RnvfS Shin Hit a niemWa and prospective inemliers.
oucceeaeo as .a minister or me r. tr jIr. (.il(b was ivpn w,rm r)W,,tion
ami opened Jus remarks by saying that
he leit it a personal honor to see ao many
Navy By Von Capello.
London, March lft - A dispatch to the
Exchange Telegraph rompany from t'O'
penhagen says the Wolif bureau, the
(iernian semi-oniciat news agency, an
nounces that Admiral von llrpiti, Ger
man miniter of the navy, has retired,
Mine, Other That She
Was Torpedoed
out on such a stormy night and that he I
was completely at homo among the men
gathered who no longer seemed strangers
to him. He spoke of the exceptional ben-
London, March 16. A neuter despatch '"t" to bo derived from Clan Gordon,
and that Admiral von Capello, director from the Hook of Holland says a wire- V ' . . . , . ' . " " ':", done to the stock of the nlinfi(r ,.
:LVT. ,r.3.?J7L?!.. mMM reoived tller ,utM thBt reminiscences of the great convention atr"? byater which overflowed a year
numi-nit , a-.. -rl ...iv in 1 n....l. il., T.. II- t : i 1 . i alii IlilU LIlC CvllnT OI tile MOOKiT HtCtTC on
i inii:r xj iii.. u iiumrnL'i'r hi ph iiiki . nit? i u i .-. n pmnninrai ihht. iiiiiimfir. hh iirci'ii . "
.unf I n
BARRE SUIT '
PUT ON TRIAL
Jury Selected in B. W. Hook-
"er & Co. vs. City
of Barre
CASE GROWING OUT
OF WATER DOTAGE
Plaintiff Puts in 'aim for
. Loss to S' w of
a
Go
The case of Bi V. Hooker 4: Co.. vs
City of Barrc, growing out of damaga
ceaor.
BRITISH ARE ADVANCING.
steamer, the Tu- Sn Francisco last summer. He urged "f". ,nl U1 W11,r 01 tne uooker store on
ward bound from the young men present to enroll at Ia,n stre!'t' w" ' wnjnieneed at 10 o'clock
r.!rw j!!'ir with the men 'of their own blood .! morn,"f? in W"h"ijrton county court.
bantia, which was out
I imil.l.m tnv T? : ..... Ttmi l.naJww.n tr
IMniUdl ailU IB III a. BlIIKIIIlt TOIlUIHUn lirni 1 ,,, h ,,r,.a,-.,t .n. i i I. a ni,n
Have Occupied Town in German Colony the Noohinder lightship. . All the pas- try.
in east Ainca. I sengers have been taken off in small Others called upon for impromptu
T-,n,ln farh id v.irW nmrn I wks were, Mayor uoruon, a long time
for the llritish expeditionary force in the t.. ' , ....j memner oi me cian nere; iiry v ierK
-------- . ... i iwimuii nurnia wn recrmru a, intra-i i. m. ir,.i, c ,i, flf ,,l-
campaign against Oerman fcaat Africa Mjr)! ,..,,. th. vegM, tru(.k a miMASi "iA r
wa. olllcially announced last night. Another d iso.tch Mr. the vessel wa. 7. r "".I'Jl
The statement said that General Jan ,,rnviinc.A - - a.rry.,......
for long term. Mr. Elrick explained
,r:lia,",Tr;i Zn l" J!r h-eft the nook the fc,. receive-d -by -8ifk- -mbe
w ., " j IJ . xu. t,.7..l ' u 01 iionana in search of the vessel ana A protrrara of more than nassim? mention
.uuani, ana inni lae lnun wrro i.ubm- TW.h tnrn.l hnmtm I.e. n..f fmm .' S. ... .
hw on to occubv Arusha. believed to Thavo A" "1" Tl T "7 S. . .1. "Il """"""iiy cameo mrougn. i n e
w en rn imvcu
Arthur II. Steel-Maitland, colonial un-
Vr secretary, at a meeting of the Over- and
seas Forces club last evening character- r "
now are held on the American side with
in easy distance of the border.
AMERICAN GUARD
WAS FIRED ON
It is officially announced in Berlin that
the change in the head of the ministry
of the marine, involving the retirement
of Admiral Von Tirpltx, who is succeeded
by Admiral Von Capello, signifies no
jjUjjjjq NIGHT ranSe n we German submarine policy.
Soldiers Were Watching Railroad When trench south of St- SouPIet which iniU
caies mat in me vnampagne region me
Washington, D. C, March 16. Presi
dent Wilson was informed by Secretary
of War Baker to-day that both the col
umns of American troops are now in
Mexico in pursuit of Villa and his ban
dits are meeting with hearty co-operation
from Carranza soldiers.
The prospects to-day were that the
American public will have to content it
self with only meagre bulletins concern
ing the movement of the troops. What
is probably the most complete censorship
in the nation's history is in full force
and no news dispatches that would be of
value to the enemy will be allowed to be
transmitted nor will details be made
public here when the publication might
interfere with Funston's plans.
The campaign to enroll 20,000 recruits
was in full swing to-day. One hundred
and seventy auxiliary recruiting stations
were opened ' and groups of uniformed
soldiers are being sent through the small
towns to inspire interest. The reports
from some of the stations told of long
lines of men waiting to present their
applications yesterday. t .
Four or Five Shots Were Fired at
Them from Mexican Side 14
Miles East of Browns
ville.
contending forces are (till endeavoring to
take advantage of every opportunity to
I strengthen their lines.
Advices from Petrograd describe re-
Brownsville, Tex., March 16.-At Fort rkble progress in Tersia of the Rus-
Brown, to-day it was reported that suln trooPs wfi0 are movin wifuy
American soldiers truardimr a railroad olracul1 roaa - "ce oi consio
bridge 14 miles east of Brownsville were erMa opposition, towards the Mesopo-
flred upon at midnight from the Mexican tamian frontier, wBere they expect soon
side. Four or five shots were fired. The to be in touch with the British forces at
troops did not return the fire. Xo one Kutei Am4ra and the . relieving column
una lllluiril OIIIUM iltrmi illlll'Ilia
troops were sent from Benito by auto
mobile to reinforce the guard at the
bridge.
NATIONAL GUARD ORDER.
Kansas Militia Get Word To Be Prepared
at Moment's Notice.
San Antonio, Tex, March 16. The
first official report from Brigadier Gen
eral Pershing, commanding the expedi
tionary forces into Mexico,- to Major
General Funston, stating that all was
going well, was received from Sam Hous
ton early to-day. The report dealt with
the disposition of the various units, the
distance of the first day's march and the
movement of the Carranza troops. The
report was not made public.
under Generals Lake and Aylmer. The
Russians are now said to be within 50
miles of the last difficult pass which will
place them in the rear of the Turkish
Bagdad army and their object is to cut
the railway to the north, thereby pre
venting the Turkish army from receiving
supplies, and co-operate with the British
The against Bagdad.
In their advance against the Turks
ized General 'Smuts' advance as another!
striking success. He said the Germans,
demoralized, were retreating southward.
CANADIAN LOAN
TO BE FLOATED
BY U.S. BANKERS
called upon for solos were, John Wvlie
sengers. James Booth. Harrv Hark. James Gall
T1. TV t V 3 - f - I A. AAA I . '.
job luunniis nau a crew oi aoum oov and Karry Hendry. A short interims
sion in the midst of the ceremonies was
the occasion for a delightful luncheon
followed by cigars. Chief William Hurry
was a good master of ceremonies
At the close of the evening's enter
tainment the company formed in a circle
and sang Auld Lang Syne. A large num
ber remained with the royal secretary
NOT SUNK BY GERMAN.
Silius Responsibility Denied After Offi
cial Investigation.
Rnrlin via u' i rklnau it Qavvilla V V
- - km, , i .... . .. , .
March 18.-An. official investigation by nl" ",n time ana, accompanying mm
the German navy has established the the stat.on, they gave him a rousing
fact that no German submarine was eon- T , ""'""' """'"e"' l"
eerned in the shikino- of the Vorweirian C,PR1 '"monJT wnicn was, nei a jouy
Good Fellow."
IMPRESSIVE CEREMONY.
Statement Made That Group of Bankers bark Silius, ays the Overseas news
Headed Bv T. P. Morean ic Co. Is a8encv-
Arranrlne to Furnish J7S.-
000 000 last Thursday night in Havre Roads, More 200 PuPU of East Barre
The Norwegian bark Silius was sunk
where she had arrived on a voyage from
New York, March lrt. A group of New York with a cargo of wheat. Of
American bankers, headed by J. P. Mor- ven Americans, members of the crew, Couillard, the little soft of Mr. and Mrs.
I..I1 ...... i VM . t.i. tt.u I . ....... .
Schools Paid Respects to Comrade.
Funeral services for Raymond Jasper
gan 4 company, is negotiating with the " - i -P 7 i A J UMI,""rd of f'a8t J5arre- M l,osc
rv,iia L. f,L-ti . WM 'r were ,nJured b-v fl-vmf death Monday followed a brief illness,
Canadian government for floating a new (Iehri-. CaptjIin Sytsen of the SniU8 wen MA in'sti Svlvter's church at
loan, according to a statement issued, by and two of the sailors were reported to Graniteville this morning at 0 o'clock,
Mr. Morgan to-day. The amount is not v drowned.
finally determined, but it is estimated
that it is in the neighborhood of $75,
000,000.
AN OFFICIAL PREDICTION
Kansas City, Mo., March 16,
Kansas City, Kans., company of the
Kflnnflft "Vrttional fJnftrH rpKterrlav re-
ceived orders to be ready to entrain for lonK the Black sea the Russians have
Fort Riley upon an hour's notice. It is captured additional Turkish officers and
understood the guardsmen will be used men, and two machine guns. A British
on guard duty along the border.
The order came from Captain W. C.
Sweeney, U. S. A., Fort Leavenworth,
who supervises the drill and inspection
of the National Guard.
NO LIMIT TO ORDERS.
Pershing Simply Told to Kill or Capture
Villa.
For the Poultry Raiser.
The well-bred, healthy fowl, kept un
der proper and favorable conditions, i
not naturally inclined to disease. Hut to
secure such a desired condition we must
look baek-in other words, we must date
back to the grandparent stock in build
ing up a sound, healthy strain of fowls,
which do not show a oemblance of heredi
tary disease, and continue to discard
delicate specimens.
Such a condition is not always pos
sible, hut the idea may be carried out
as to the future.
- Treating fowls separately is not the
most pleasant task, neither is It neces
sary in most cases, if care is taken to
give prompt attention to colds, by simply
treating the entire flock by the follow
ing method, which cannot harm the fowls
whirh may not need treatment, but may
prevent colds or disease which might
otherwise shortly develop in the flock.
ror colds, roup, diphtheria or any
column has attacked an advanced posi
tion of the Turks in Mesopotamia, bay-
onetted a considerable number of the
Turks and captured others.
That Panama Canal Will Be Re-opened
April 15.
Washington, D. C, March 16. An offi
cial prediction that the Panama canal
will be re-opened bv April 15 for the
passace of deep draft vesseJs was an
nounced last night by the war' department.
Conditions in Gaillard cut, scene of
the parish priest, Rev. Joseph. Turcot,
officiating. The remains were brought
to Barre for interment in the Catholic
cemetery on Beckley street. The bear
ers were F.rnest and Richard Mayo, Ar
thnr McKane and Raymond Bedard. all
BOAT ESCAPED f Wcbstcrville, where the family for
merly resided before moving to f.ast
JIarre.
Leaving the home, about three miles
above East Barre, at 7:30 this morning,
the procession paused at the undertak
ing rooms of M. J. Whitcomb in that
place, the body being taken inside, where
from 8 until 8:15 a very impressive cere
mony took place. More than 200 pupils
NO WARNING GIVEN
TOFABRE LINER;
Torpedo Fired By a Submarine Passed
20 Feet Astern and the Patria
Steamed Away to Safety
Twenty Americans Were
Aboard.
New York. March 10. While carrvinelf the East Barre graded school, which
the principal earth movement, which 20 Americans among her 000 passengers, the boy had attended, with their teach
blocked the waterway last fall are re- the'Fabre liner Patria, a French steamer, era, took the opportunity to look once
garded as Justifying the forecast. Col. I was attacked without Varning by a sub- more upon the face of their comrade.
naruing, acting governor ot me canal marine off the coast of Tunis, according pngs or evergreen were uroppea ny
zone, telegraphed the war department to a story told by the captain upon the each pupil into the casket and the school
yesterday as follows: - - vessel's arrival to-day. The torpedo " hole also gave a wreath of pink
lonuiuong m i.amara cut jusiiiy pFe- fired by the submarine, he said, passed and wmte roses ana carnations, rouow
: .. . : . At. i :n i - mi.! e I . . ..... I . i . i . . . j . , : . :
There wrere no cases ready for trial vea-
ter"day end it was at first feared that the
Hooker case would not be ready until
this afternoon, owing to the absence of
several witnesses. John W. Gordon ap
pears for the plaintiff, and William Wish
art is assisted in the defense by S. Hoi-
lister Jackson.
The following jury was drawn to hear
the case: Fred E. Cram, Roxbury, Oa
car Ci. Eaton, Waitsfleld, T. J. FarrcJI,
Moretown, P. K. Carney, Cabot, M. M.
Goodell, Roxbur,v, Guy H. Howe, North
field, Lucius L. Knnpp, Plainfield, John 1.
Mack, Montpelier, Burt R, Nelson, Wood
bury, S. A. Nelson. Cabot, A. M. Snow,
Duxbury, Carroll Wheeler, Worcester.
License Commissioners Next Week.
The assistant judges of county court
stated to-day that the appointment of
license commissioners for Barre and Mid-S
dlesex probably would not be announced
before next week.
NUTE BEAT CHAMPION.
ing this, the cortege resumed its journey
to St. Svlvester s church, where the fit
neral service was held.
Paris, March 16.- Thef has been no
further infantry action in the region
north of Verdun, according to the French
official statement this afternoon. Artil
lery bombardment continued with vary
ing intensity.
San Antonio, Tex., March 16. Briga- throat or '"'lul troinne, caused irom
dier-G.neral John J. Pershing, with more,c"I,is or fr(m contamination with other
than four thousand troops, beiran the .fowls affected with above discuses, the
Berlin, via London, March 16. A num
ber of unsuccessful attacks have been
made by the French on the German lines
south' of St. Souplet, west uf Sommepy
road in the Champagne region, the Ger
man headquarters announced to-day.
The Germans took two officers and 100
men prisoners and captured two machine
guns.
dictions that canal will be available for 20 feet astern of the liner.
ships ot thirty feet draft on April 15,
subject to probable temporary delays
thereafter to meet exigencies dredging L W. W. MAN ARRESTED.
fleet in completing canal t full width
and depth and in removing shoals that Following a Disturbance at Nashua, N.I
may possibly develop." f , H., Last Night.
regarded as an engineering feat fcecond Nfth".tt: Mrch le.-Atter a
nl -A.iii V.f v,. .i ! street disturbance last night m front of
Millions of tons of rock and earth have Ifaml,n h. th headquarters of the WOman of wide acquaintance, died last
been torn out of the onllapsed excava-; triker of the Jackson and Nashua cot- jght at the home of her son, Herbert
tions. New dredges of a size and capa-i on J"'1"' the -police arrested Joseph Farnliam, in Orange Center, as the re
city never before employed have labored ; S,mlth of s,.rnt,on' a- an organizer of git 0f a general breaking down of her
night and day for months. Steam shov
els have driven their way into the ob
struction wherever there was ground
sufficiently firm to hold them.
In the meantime the construction work
at the terminals and about the locks lias
proceeded without pause. When the ca
nal is reopened it will have advanced in
equipment far beyond the point it bad
FRENCH OFFICER ARRESTED.
So Germans Say, Because His Troops Did
Not Resist Well Enough.
Berlin, March 16, via w ireless to Say
ville. An official communication mud
who has been here for the last three
weeks in connection with the strike.
The nature of the charge against Smith
was not announced.
The police used their night sticks free
ly in the midst of the strike sympathiz
ers and soon dispersed the crowd.
It was said that the disturbance start-
reached when the slides beean. Faclli- e(1 when men who "ad b0'n
ties for quick handling of ships will be11' meeting assaulted a man whom they
much better than they were at that time.i"vvu"u " l"""
and the great project closer to final com
pletion in all details.
LEAVES MANY DESCENDANTS.
Eight Children, 40 Grandchildren and 10
Great-Grandchildren.
Mrs. George W. Farnham, an estimable
the Industrial Sorters of the World, .vstem. The funeral will be held at the
BLINDED BY SNOW.
Railroad Crossing Tender Was Killed By
a Train.
Newburrport, Mass., March 16. Dan
iel Ryan, aged 73, tender at the High
fiel.l croftinjf of tho ftoston $l Maine
TWO NEW CORPORATIONS.
Springfield Brass Co., Inc., and Gardyne
Store Co., Inc., File Articles.
The Springfield Brass company. Inc.,
with capital stock of $Si).n0rt has filed ar
ticles of association with the secretary
of state, the purpose of the organization
being to manufacture all kinds of metal
imnlamanli ami nnli i ti.irv at KnriniT.
railroad for more than 25 years, was in- fiu Th. .nWril-r. .r. P...1 E I....
pursuit in Mexico yesterday of Francis-:"1" no "? " treated at night, army order issued by General I)e liaze- I shortly after 6 o clock last night. He
co Villa, whose raid acroHs the border when the tow Is are on the roost, without laire, commander of the sector on the was returning to his home along the
U ... . i J , T I - A it.. 1M1 I 1 A. 1 T a
l'uu,,c "V ""T7? ",",",n- r Cn;niT k neu oy me iwsion ex press , the, H h Mcpliee ,nd Freil n. Gill, all
of Springfield.
1 ;..!... vn. 4, l.l inAm-m f.n
List week caused lresident Wilson and handling a single fowl, by the use of a left bank of the Meuse river, concerning track and had stepped out for a snow- loardvne Store, company Inc inerror
liia cabinet to decide to use the United , vaPor n""1 fron pq"l Trts of gum the engagement of March 7. The order, plow, when the train, which he failed to j ,t, j A , prneral store and real es
States army to run him down. j camphor and carbonate of ammonia. le which was found in the Wood of the observe because of the blinding snow- i ut business at Montiromerv tenter The
General Pershing's retnjrt that he and ordinary vaporizer or one can be , Crows (Bi IVs Corbeaux) northwest of , storm, came alonir. He was lmrUI 90 ! . -i-i.- : ' "
house .Saturday forenoon at 10 o'clock,
rRev. Amos Lord officiating, and inter
ment will be at Waits River.
Mrs. Farnham was born in Topsham
73 years ago next April and had lived
the greater part of her life m that town,
removing to Orange 13 years ago and
residing on what is known as the Bowles
place. Her husband died eight years ago.
Mrs. Farnham leaves the following chil
dren: Mrs. C. A. Moulton of Barre. Mrs,
Theodore Wood of Adamant, Mrs. Henry
Paine of Barre Town. Mrs. F. A. Down
ing of Washington. Edward Farnham of
Topsham and Herbert. George and Ros
weil Farnliam. all of Orange. There are
also 40 grandchildren and 1ft great
grandchildren. Mrs. iarnham was a
member of the Methodist church at Tops
ham.
HIS DEATH ANNOUNCED.
Bu( Telegram from Rutland to Winooski
Was a Fake.
Winooski. March 1ft. The publication
Former Barre Man Kept the Candlepins!
Falling.
Manchester, N. H., March 16. Chester1
Martel of Lowell, candlepin champion of
Xew England, was defeated last night
by Harold Nute, city champion, in a '
match on the Calumet club alleys, which
was witnessed by as large a gallery as '
could be accommodated.
Nute's total showed 47 more pins than
that of the champion. The totals were: '
Nute, i,06O; Martel, 1,013.
Alike in many respects, the rollers !
dodged ahead of each other by close
margins through 10 strings that roused
great enthusiasm among the spectators.
Of about the same stature and weight,
and even resembling raeh other remark
ably in features, the two artists both
relied on a lightning ball, delivering it
in exactly the same manner.
The scoring was not high on either
ide of the sheet. Neither man appeared
to deliver his best performance, but they
were both in physical trim and showed
flashes of accuracy and skill that forced
the cheers loose.
The highest single of the 20 strings
was a ute s IiJl in the second string,
which he repeated for good measure in
the last column. Martel's highest single
was 117.
Martel but recently wrested the cham-,
pionship from Arthur Walsh of Boston in
10-stnng match. He is booked to
meet Paul Toehler. the Quiney, Mass.,
roller, whose name has been high among j
New England candlepine artists for sev
eral seasons.
Nute led a field of 75 rollers for the
championship of Manchester in a eensa
tional tournament last spring. As was ,
demonstrated last night, he is at his
best w-hen his opponent is especially dan
gerous. The scores: ,
Martell 108. 105, no, 02, 00, 103, 100,
117. 82, 107. Total 1,013.
Nute 117, 121, J02. 87, 110, 102, 100,
104, 06," 121. Total 1,060.
MARRIED IN ST. ALBANS.
Miss Alice Mariotti and Charles P. Gisn-
noni.
A quiet wedding took place Wednesday
afternoon. at 2:30 in St. Albans, when
Miss Alice R. Mariotti of Barre, later cf
SU Albans, daughter of Augusto Mariot
ti of this city, and Charles P. Giannoni
of Montpelier were united in marriage at
the home of Rev. George W. Smith of St.
Luke's Episcopal church. Mr. Smith ofll- '
ciating. Both bride and groom are well
known in. Barre and Montpelier.
After the ceremony, Mr. and Mrs. ;
Giannoni left St. Albans at 4 p. m. for '
their honeymoon. On their return they '
will make their borne In Karre, where
the groom is a granitecutter. j
HELD UP BY DERAILMENT. !
Central Vermont Trains Abo Hindered!
By Drifts. I
The derailment of two freight cars,!
one a caboose, near Middlesex thia mom-1
ing held up the Central Vermont pas- j
of one', obituary before one h, died islng" train from the north for nearly !
reel to me sine oi me tracks and died .11 ,.f Hfntmerir. are fliarlc.
bis command had crosed the interna- made by using an ordinary lamp, a met- I Verdun, follows
. : i 1 i: : . . . IL t r oi f him tmv hitmr, i.rnfnrn i.. .... I. m r 1 I t .a .rn mo n,l.r r f a..,....; ... - 1 . 1 r . . . - . .
1IIUIHI IMHITHlltrV Hilt" JUM EMMIIII l V"!" ............ i.r.l. ir, n a , ...... ...n ..... ... uikimuhkic HT Vlinill B IfW mUlUlCK. IliS DOd V WBS j
iiimnua reacnea irenerai runsion. in,"""1 w ikkt. ami rie-jvur rui-i ami win;. , brought here on the train,
charse Iwre of general operations lat ' vating a seamless pan or box abut one Your forces did not offer the resist-j Ryan has been employed on the road
yeiderdsy. , inch above the top of lamp chimney. If 'ance which was to lie enpected. I'ntil : for 40 years, and was "one of the best
Hi report served to dispel to a great this method is not po-sihle a small oil further information I infer that the com- ' known crossing tenders on the divisioo.
extent fears that had been entertained stove or aiconoi lamp may be used. 1'lace nian.ler oi mat seritna railed in his duty, j He resided at B Cherry utreet. and
, in some quarters, that res-istance would me equsi psrrs oi gum camphor and car- i nereiore ne win ne? cmn martialed.
v offered by the trvp of the de facto "nst of ammonia in the pan. liht the I It is necessary to offer resistance to
, government. Od. Bertani, the command-I lamp and placo in the rooxtiiig house I the utmost limits. We must be inspired
ing officer of the Carranza garrison at j when the fowls are at rot. Close doors :at this moment only with one resolution
Ia1omas, on the south side of the divid-jand windows and allow it to burn until eilher to victonmslr hold up the ene
ing lin.. promptly joined CrtTieral IVnsh- I the fowls show an indication to get down my or to die. Artillery and machine
ine. His force wa t-i!v some 4"0 men, 'from the root- For cd'ls. repeat three 'gun will fire on every troop whkh re
but they were reported to have displayed nights in succession. r r r develops! ; treats.
wiliinarness and even etfeniea to join , throat and head diaea. continue the
In the chaa. As a hndr the Mexkaa '. treatment for 10 nights,
troop will remain ondr their own torn- J When fo 1 have d. l-.-cd roup or
mini Mit a numher l them are being i diphtwria.
mploved a ar-mta hy General Perh-1 from the do.
ir.g.
t'td. Gforg A. lwi 1. Kexlnjf a imil.
er column thst ertered Mrtioo aojnerfia
tan w.t tf CUumbus. alo is asovirg
they should iwp,rst.l
k and trist-l in a wnarate
(Sinedi "IV Baz'laire.
"(52d Bripadei Msrrh 7, 1!M."
RE -OCCUPY SOLLUM.
survived by a widow and nine children.
BLOWN OUT OF CAB.
Gardvne. Charles T. Hall, Ralph M.
Buck and V. M. Smith.
something that doesn't happen to every
,one. Yesterday it happened to r-varu-te
Imbue, ir. A telcuram came to his par
ent. Mr. and Mrs. Kvariste Imbue of
River street, from Rutland stating that
the young man had died, the message
beina- rveorted as surned by hit widow.
A telegram of inquiry to get further in
fi'mation revealed that the supposed
Change in T. J. Deavitt's FnneraL
The funeral of the late T. J. IVavitt
of Montnelier will h held at the houa I dead man was bosv at his work and well
on Elm street in that citv im-tead of at i' Inquiries at to how such a telegram
the Congregational church as first ' reached the telegraph office in Rutland
r.lanne.l. The time of the funeral ia.?! shoved that a young man. whose name
orfco-k rtnrdav atteriKwm. (reorire T.lcould
ot be learned, wa the aender.
Three Men Were Injured; One is ia Crit- ! l-avitt, a aon, arrived in Montp-lier lat But another local rP"" ''d printed Mr.
leal Condition, inivht from New York C ity and William Public's obituary before the mistake was
rittafirld, M, March !. Julius
(and Henry are expected from FJ I'ao,
R.mi. brakem.1. .lohn WWW i nn ' Birm reapv.veiy, to im r-
sn.t r.alrh r. r.lw.r.L . 1 row morning.
Boston A Albany freight train nere in
jured yesterday hen they wer Mown
out of the rturin rah tT aa eti.h".i.n
of 1 T- rrowa mhert at Stt l.in. K -m liters
found out.
Speaal Meeting.
Special meeting of lumpers, boxers and
derrktmen will be held in Scampini
Meeting of Listers Postponed a Day.
The men ing of Washington cunty ! M.wk. rw.m S. Saturday. March H. for
house from tl.r-e n-t apparent! affect British Back ia Ai Old Poitia oa Egyp
eL Fhaat fol eoritaminate the -
drir.Ving water. oman World fori cr.o I t m All of the men resile nilwi poatfmrK-4 to Saturday aftenKa,
Marh. London. March 1. The tfrrUrj f AllEr, X. Y. March IS. " iate,l
ih-h arheHiiled t be beWiithe portM' of balloting on international
a laid'y v-al-li and r in a rrili-lat Montpelier city ball tomorrow. I at committed. Ballot cj"" fmm II
to S p. m. Ail BifTiibiTf are re-
an hour. A flagman halted the south
bound train on the Waterbury side of'
Middlesex station, the train prooeedin?
at slow sieed until it reached the aceiyr
of the derailments The northbound train
was aleo late, due to the snowdrifts be- i
tween Montpelier Junction and Wbitu '
River Junction. .
LOSS OVER 1100,000.
!
Troy, N. Y, Collar Factory Was Burned i
Last Night.
Troy. N. Y.. Marrh 1. The plant of,
the American Collar company In this ,
city burned last night. The blar start
ed in the boiler room and for two hours ,
threatened, a nearby hank and pom
station. The .s is betweea flii.',
and 12.Von.
aetks Notice.
There will he a regular metir.g of tlm
R. C. I. P. A, Vcl 241. i.!ay. Marrh
17. at 7:3' p- rn. Ion't forget ta regia-
to attend. 1'er order eacrftarv. ter. I'rT or jr Kec Sc
