THE G
ON GIT
VOLUME 12
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1916.
NO. 10.
LAYT
SUDDEN HALT OF
DISTRICT COURT
Failure of the Officers to Give Proper
Notice as Required by Law
for Drawing of Jurors.
On account of the failure of the
officers to give the proper notice as
required by law, for the drawing of
jurors; the jury work of this term
of the District Court came to a sud
den halt on Monday of this week.
Pleas in abatement having been filed
to Indictments, returned by the grand
jury against Carl Eklund and Judge
Toombs, raising the question of the
legality of the grand jury on account
of the manner in which they were
drawn. Court heard the argument on
the pleas Monday morning and at the
afternoon session rendered a decision
sustaining the same, quashing the in
dictments returned by the grand jury.
Charles A. Spiess of Las Vegas, and
Jack Harris of this city, represented
the defendants. Immediately after
making this ruling the court discharg
ed the petit jurors, and instructed the
jurors to apply to the clerk for their
fees and mileage; at this time a rather
..itW incident occurred, as the
eused petit jurors were leaving the
court room one of their number waved
his hand at the judge and shouted
"find .bless you!" For some reason
after the court had quashed the in-Ji-tments
in the cases above mention
ed on account of the illegality of the
grand jury, and had discharged the
etit iurv for the term, the grand
jury was held in Bession until the next
day, when that body, previously held
illegal by the court, returned several
, indictments against several other par
ties and one accusation against . i-
Maneker, which accusation was im
mediately dismissed by the court As
a matter of fact, under the ruling of
the court no act of the grand jury
could be held legal. . Pleas in abate
ment were sustained by the court to
the indictments returned by the grand
jury in the following cases:
J. J. H. Lovem, charged with ut
tering bad check; Sicilio Sandoval,
charred with forgery; W. B. Giles,
charged with assault.
Also pleas in abatement were sus
tained by the court to the indictment
against Attorney C. L. Collins, charg
ed with embezzlement; Benj. F. Brown
assault; Jefferson Kennedy, assault;
Geo. Kennedy, assault; Bruce Kenne
dy, assault; Wm. R. Giles, assault;
R. T. Mansker, accusation; L. C. Good,
Henry Kilburn, Samuel E. Warren
Daniel F. Brotcher, assault; James D.
Davis and Belty Davis, assault
Considerable complaint has been
heard among the people on account of
the expense to the taxpayers, but it is
said that "accidents will happen in the
best of regulated families."
No jury cases could be tried, but
the court remained in session until
Thursday, hearing motions and court
his display as to have the snake prom
inently in the foreground, terrifying
timid homeseekers from the open
gate.
It is his duty to present his town
to the passing stranger, the casual
visitor, the abiding guest, in its best
clothes, its clean-washed, shining
schoolday face, and its Sunday morn
ing behavior.
This does not imply that he should
lie about his town, ascribing to it only
absolute perfection and faultless at
tractions. But he Bhould display its
beauties, its graces and its excellences
with an honest heart and a clear con
science, even as a young mother bash
fully holds up to the admiring world
the amazing precocity of her first
baby, eleven weeks old.
Remember what the town was when
you came to live in it, then look upon
what it islnow, and paint the picture
with glowing colors and a bold brush
on expansive canvas. And if you as-
cribe much of the cause of its growth
and development to the fact that you
live in i, your fellow citizens, even
those who know you best, will forgive
you and testify their foregiveness by
their applause. It is the right and the
duty of the citizen to thus present his
own in its very best appearance.
CATHOLICS TO BUILD
SCIIOOLBIDII
"It is no time to indulge in idle the
ories about invasion. I give credit for
common sense to think they will not
I gladly accept our aid in eliminating an
international outlaw."
WAR WITH
Outrage
MEXICO SOON?
Everything Now Goes to Indicate that
We are to be Plunged Into
War with Mexico
The papers have been full of war
news for the past fe wdays and at
this time it is a little hard to tell
just "where we are at." Scary head-
A deal is well under headway which
if consummated will result in the add
ing of another building and enter
prise for the city of Clayton. The
Catholic folks are considering the mat
ter of the purchase of a block of
ground on which to build a school
building to be in charge of the Sisters,
the building itself to cost from $2500
to $3500. This is one of the im
provements for trw city that has been
under considerativa in a small way
for some litle time but it looks now
as though it is to terminate into real
ity, and we are to have this another
added enterprise. At the present time
the sisters are conducting a school
in the church building, which lacks
many conveniences for use as a school
building, and they are no doubt handi
capped in the work to no little extent
The Catholic people are quite strong
here and have many influential mem
bers throughout the county and who
no doubt will use both their influ
ence and money to bring about t
completion of the plans.
The facilities for an education in the
near future in Clayton promise to be
Al and there is no better recommend
ation for nor advertisement of the
town.
SITE ELECTED
Clayton Congratulated Upon Getting
f.ai-r. rVurtmnitioiia Kiiilriinff
7 " I . . . i a rr.i
fr rnnvMilimcS of Punila Washington, marcn . ino i
. ican question broke out in congress to
rn,,. awi Wrd. tlu, W of the da. Senator Fall of New Mexico an-
wp,. elected the slzht for the New nounced that he had prepared a res-
Central School building, the sight olution to authorize recruiting an ar
chosen, being blocks No. 1546 and 1547. V of 500,000 to intervene in Mexico
TVio Hool tina not been ermanentlv ana B1U vno aiwiiK
,n'nw w. it u t.h m,rfirtiiHiTir stamping out brigandage, while in the Unes have appeared in the papers that
ot. thu tim tn dl will cro throuph house, Representative Mondell, repub- W0U indicate that our troops are
at a cost of $1800.00 to the Board of "can, ol Wyoming, started aeDaie witn uin ViUa into his haunts in Mex.
... ... i t. .Un.LÍMn Ra orimimofra. 1 F
Education for the two blocks. It was p- . . b t rom the fact that we havo
hoped that tne matter oi tne Duuaing . . . .. .
Jm tw-rf t n,. . a AZ Late today the United States sent not heard anything about him hav-
i tj-j. urj a formal notification oi the Columbus ing been captured yet, we want to
BCb luí M1Q BIIQ VI MIO JVIIUO WaO TT CWt, I 1.1,1
March 15th.this week, but there ebine massacre to General Carranza through sk the assertion here that Gen. Fun-
a miss publication in the notice for sale American Consul Hinunan. 8ton has never turne(i a bunch of our
of bonds, the sale could not be held I v . ,oose BcroJ8 the Mexican border
and hence the bonds to this date are forwarded to tne war aepanment iaie .t.
unsold and the matter of further pro- today, through General Funston, was as yet or they would have come back
I. . n i xi r í J I I. L. T it mu mnnA than
cresa will ha delaved until after time W the eneci tnat tne Mexican muera wiui uio buuuo. " " "
for publication of the notices, which were commanded by General Villa a week since Villa started south, and
notice sets the day for the sale of personally. wth the faint prospect of American
the Bonds as Wednesday, April 12th. ' . pursuit, it would be our opinion that
The matter of the delay is to be some- Carranza Wants to Invade America lf he ,g being looked for ciose to the
what regretted, as the time is not too border he will not be found, and that
long at the best in which to have the Washington, Mar. 11. Carranza to-1 hen he ig found in the interior, locat.
building ready for the fall term. day Tema 10 tM Amencan ""Hed by the U. S. soldiery, he will be
KClayton is to be congratulated upon ment'8 announcement that American nnder the protection 0 his own and
her prospects of getting a fine new soldiers win enter mexicg w Carranza troops. Oh! NO. We are
large commodious building for the tne VUia DBnaiw W1U1 "" not in conjunction with Mr. Carranza
benefit and convenience of W nnnil Carranza soldiers be allowed the prjv- h t y t f - . campaign to
and teachers are already looking for- ile&e of cr098Ín8 into American terri- capture villa. - When once our troops
ward to its comnlption witli mn , tory m pursuit oi lawless Dnus. nave cro.8ed the border it is our 1m-
ordinary interest Clayton is forging Secretary of State Lansing said he pregson that we will then be in war
to the front and today is attracting had not made P hia m5nd KZTiinZ with Mexico. The probabilities are
more attention than nr eitv nf if. the request that there is nothing that could now
. . r-J - ...... i.j i ! ..Jin - .. .
size in the southwest . carranza suggeswu no wuiuiKuo i avoia tní8 ana u me Mexican peopie
This action of th hurA ,o that American troops should cross into ara to be brought together, they will
mac j wow . . . a a I
after we went to nresa last week Mexico in case that a raid nice mat u,e brought together with the feeling
at oiumuus wan uiuori.uui.cijf it-1 tnat they are protecting tneir country
peated at any other point on the bor-lagamBt a foreign foe, anoVthi seems
de.r. ' . ' 1 '.' (to us tó be about the firit real op-
Carranza did not definitely approve I portunity that they have M.
or disapprove or any iurther expen
cases.
Á MAN'S DEBT TO HIS TOWN
A man owes a great deal more to
the town he lives in than he does to
the town he was born in.
When the town he lives in has ac
cepted the man, sometimes at his own
valuation, which is largely above par,
and sometimes very quietly, merely
giving him the chance to show what
manner of man he is, and crowning
him with rewards when he has made
"good," it is his manly duty to re
ciprocate by accepting his chosen town
on the same terms. .
Tío should at least tnake a treaty
with her, containing the "most favor
ed nation clause," and loyally and
enthusiastically live up to itj It is
in his power to picture his town as
an Eden, with bowers of roses and
groves of luscious and lifesustaining
fruit, or, while not denying the roses.
and the orchards, he can so arrange' peace,
, In the old wdrld M,'"?ity is in the!
saddle and what is left of civilization
is wepping over its dead.
The average darky's notion of
labor-saving device is a wife who takes
in washing. i
tions across the border by Americans, j Telephone Man Returns from Mineral
Wells
Charles D. Miller Victim of Villa Raid
at Columbus, Thursday Morning
F. H. Clark, our telephone man, has
rpturned from Mineral Wells. Texas,
By means of a 32nd degree Masonic , . h b SDending the past
I u. ív- un niiT!(Hi . ... . ...
W. J. Bryan will be as strong for " few weeks for the oenent oi nis ncaun.
peace at St Loyis, as he is for peace vfon Z 7 ÍTIr n He enJoved the rest very mUch' CmeS
Those who expect harmony in the I
democratic party seem to doubt that!
in Europe.
the body of Charles DeWitt Miller,
former state engineer of New Mex-
.iu xt m i. oo.tu wo, and a brother or J. u. miner oi
first interstate intercollegiate "debate La8 Cruces, wm identified after being
home feeling relieved to some extent,
a part of which is due to the fact that
he is home.
Is there Mineral There?
Mr. J. G. Richards, of Higgins,
Texas, well known through this sec
tion of the country as an authority
in prospecting and locating mineral
deposits, passed through the city on
Monday of the week to do professional
work in the vicinity of Kenton, Okla
homa, in the interests of parties in
Texas and Oklahoma, who hold ex
tensive and it is hoped, valuable leases
there. It will be remembered that
the northwest corner of Cimarron
County, Oklahoma, is a segregated
district made so by the government,
by reason of its presumptive oil and
mineral deposit and ifsomething val
uable should be located here, which
s not improbable, it would add much
to the resources of this section of the
country and would be a boost for Clay
ton as well as this is the nearest rail
road point at this time.
ever held in New Mexico will take
place in this city next Saturday night
when the University of New Mexico
will meet the debaters from the Uni
versity of Redlands, California, on the
subject: "Resalved that the Federal
Government should own and operate
all interstate railways." A month
later, April 25th, the University of
Southern California sends its debaters
to Albuqerque to meet the New Mexico
University orators on the Bubject,
"Resolved that the federal trade corn-
mission be empowered to regulate
trusts and monopolies, as the inter
state commerce commission regulates
railroads." The debaters are regarded
of impprtance sufficient to insure their
complete reporting in "Intercollegiate
debates," a publication devoted to en
couraging college debating, (in the
United States.
Methodist Notes
Morning: Sunday School 10:00,
Preaching at 11:00, A. M. Subject
"What hast thou?"
Evening: Preaching 7:30, Subject,
"He sold his birthright."
Prayer Meeting, Wednesday even
ing, 7:30.
The day is not far distant when the
disturber's influence will be gone and
decent people will be allowed to live in
ial hotel in Columbus Friday morn
ing.
When the unidentified body was re
moved from the ruins of the hotel the
Masonic ring was recognized by a
Mason in the rescue party and it was
found to ie engraved on the inside
with Miller's name. He was master
of the Tularosa, N. M., lodge and a
member of the Santa Fe Scottish rite
lodge.
He graduated from the A. & M.
College at State College in 1906 while
his brother, J. O. Miller, was regis
trar. After graduation he became as
sistant territorial engineer and was
annointed fttate pno-inppr when Vnrnnn
Sullivan resigned and held this office ciation will hold its next meeting u
Funston in Charge of General
erations in Three Columns
Op
El Paso, Tex., Mar. 11. Pursuit
and capture of Villa is the sole pur
pose of the punitive expedition into
Mexico, declared General John J.
Pershing, commandant at Ft. Bliss
and one of the leaders of the exped
ition in a statement today.
The, statement, which will tend to
quiet an excitement on the part of
te Mexican people in this section is
as follows.
"It should be deeply impressed upon
everybody that the only purpose of
the entry of American troops into
Mexico at this time, is the pursuit
and capture of Villa and his band of
brigands.
"It is a most friendly act of assist
ance on our part This should be fully
recognized by all true friends of the
dé facto government on both sides of
the line.
Wade
Buys Spring Stock.
Dyestuff Scarce
Reports
Geo. H. Wade reports the same
sad cry around the eastern market
that has been reported by every buyer
from here. Dys stuff is almost out
of the question and the matter of get
ting what you want is not to be con
sidered, but what -you can get. Mr.
Wade bought a nice line of the best
available stock for his store here,
some of which is already arriving.
SCHOOL NOTES
The Union County Teachers' Asso-
until Governor McDonald was elected
when he retired from office and was
engaged in the land business with
headquarters at Tularosa.
Have Efficient National Guard
Governor McDonald's telegram to
Secretary Baker, in full, follows:
"The Secretary of War, War Dept.
Washington, D. C.
"We have efficient National Guard
of 61 officers and 877 enlisted men
ready for service on Bhort notice. No
annrnnrintinn hv Htate auffkient to eri-
able doing anything without assist- menus oi
ance. If federal government needs meeting.
force can act promptly. Columbus in
loTit Vina umnapH our nponle to hltrhlSO come,
1 1 T7.rnTTT.lT
nifMv TIia tnwna near border feel lie lnin
insecure
. . . . .i i
Amistad, New Mexico, April mn anu
15th, 1916.
A number of the leading educators
of the state will be present and ad
dress the teachers and people of the
county.
The county contests in spelling and
Arithmetic will be held during the
meeting. Encourage your boys and
girls to enter these contests. Liberal
prizes will be offered the winners.
A cordial invitation is exienacu w
each teacher of the county to be pres
ent It is the desire of the teachers
of the county to have parents nnd
to attend this
There will be something
worth while for each and every one,
GRADE PROMO-
ine owns near uurucr iceii - . mi v vA
and fear further attacks and HON ElAMINAT"A Í
outrages from Mexico. Since federal on Apr. oeven.a .u
force, our only protection, I ask that tions wi be sent to any teacher who
such disposition of same be made as has pupüs desiring : to tato he exam
people needed protection ination proviucu ... ... -------
is may be possible under by the teacher at east two weeks be-
will give our
so far as this may
existing conditions.
wm. c. Mcdonald,
"Governor of New Mexico."
fore the date of the examination.
H. H. ERKETT,
1 345 county cup.
v..
