1101 :7,.
PK SETN
____T~E__ __ ____
PUBLISHiD WEEKLY OFFICIAL PA"R OF PIOKENS COUNTY SUBSCRIPTION PRICE ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR
'Established 1871-Volune 45 PICKENS, S. C., MARlI 16, 1916 Number 45
Trammels music
Palace
IF you want to hear some of the world's greatest produc
I tione of music do not fail to visit Trammell's Music
Palace. Phonograph Records from four dollars each
down. Sheet Music of all kinds at half price-s6ngs,
,Pances, waltzes. Grapanola Needles, etc.
If you are in the market for a piano or organ and can't
make up your mind what kind to buy, just sten across the
street and ask your neighbor and you will perhaps find one,
and they will advise you to buy a "Kimball." If you live
in the country just go down the road a little piece and they
will tell you what to buy.
If you want some grand opera music, we have it; if
you want some cheaper nausic, we have it.
If you love music, visit Trammell's Graphanola Room.
If you do not love it, come on just the same and have your
soul renewed, and it will cause you to. go home with a
musical inspiration that will make you feel like you did in
your childhood days.
MR. -FURMAN WALDROP is authorized to
wait on the public during Ar. Ti'ammell's
absence, and he will gladly give anyone
any information desired.
--1-M-d - H-!-_+1 -111- .1410-1-++00-I+4+-M+-lH+l
Springtime Is Near!.
and. my Spring Goods are already arriving.
Come along aud get first choice. I shall
continue to sell winter weight goods at
reduced prices.
On .account' of limited space I can't give
many quotations on prices; so come, give us
a trial and be convinced.
I now have the largest line of Ladies' and
Men's Slippgrs that I live ever carried.
I will sell J. & P. Coats' Crochet Thread,
numbers up to 25, three balls'for 25 cents,
and higher numbers for to cents per ball.
Laidies' Shirtwaists at 50 cents each.
I am still paying i4c per pound cash and 15c
per pound in trade for .Hams inside 25
pounds in weight.
Bring me your Hens and Eggs and get ioc
per pound fur the Hens and the Greenville
market price for Eggs.
J. W. HENDRICKS M
PICKENS R4
S With almost 100 Chase City, WVeber, Buckeye, Gregory. Columbus
and SterlingWagons in stock wve can sell you one-horse wvagons for
$35 to $40; two-horse wvagons $55 to $65.
- The best buggies in the world for the money are the "HIGH
POINT" at $80 and the "PA RRY " at $50. Tr wo carloads now in stock.
We will give two years to pay for any buggy or wagon we sell,
and guarantee the priee of cotton to you. Remember, also, we guar
antee absolutely every buggy or wagon we sell.
SA fine lot of nice, cholcy young horses and mules on hand now,
weighing from 750 to 1300 pounds. One span of fine PERCHIERON
Sbrood mares, 6 years old, weighing 2500 pounds. S.ee our standard
bred road horse, He is fast, 2.50.
We will sell you gooda cheaper and give you longer terms than
an terfr wed of. Trade with us. We (1o not mind carry
e We hvjutadda line of tine Sewing Machines and ormgans
to our business.
~W. M. BROWN, Waihalla, S, C.
Horses Mules, Buggies,.Wagos Harness, Milch Cows. lleef CatLe,
SGasoline Engines, .Oliver Chilled Plows, McCor mick Mowing Ma
chines, geapers and Binders,-Disc Har rows, Sewinmg Machines,
rigans, Roofing,. Lime, Cement, Dynamite. etc
"Brown Has It-Or Brown Gets It"
umuununp~uunnunau Muum
Another Prominet Citizen Dead
James Keith Kirksey, one of the old
est, best known and most substantial
citizens of Pickens county, died at his
home five miles above Pickens Thurenay
morning, March 9. Paraylais was the
cause of his death. He had been In de
clining health for several years, but
had been seriously ill only one week.
Funeral services were conducted by his
pastor, Rev. L. E. Wiggins, after which
the body was laid to rest in the family
burying ground.
Mr. Kirksey was 76 years old and Is
survived by his wife, nee Mary Ander
son, and six children, as follows: Mrs.
J. E. Sadler of Starr, Mrs. Samuel
Sheriff of Easley, Dr. R. Kirksey and
Dr. James Kirksey and and Misses Nan
nie and Aurie Kirksey, of Crow Creek.
Mr. Kirksey was born in Pickens coun
ty, then Pendleton district, and served
throughout the civil war in.the Confed
erate army. During the latter part of
the war he was a courier for Hampton
and Butler. He was a member of Grace
M. E. Church at Pickens. The estab
lishment of the old Piedmont Institute,
which did so much good in Pickens, was
greatly due to his active interest and
financial support. He was a great be
liever in education. For five years, in
the early eighties, Mr. Kirksey was en
gaged in the mercantile business in
Pickens with the late Col. Hollingsworth
and J. E. Boggs. At that time there
were only three stores in Pickens.
During his lifetime Mr. Kirksey was
a good, quiet and unassuming citizen,
and tho often urged to offer for public
office and several times offered commis
sions he refused them all and chose to
help his country in other ways.
His death causes genuine grief thru
out the county.
The Sentinel joins with his numerous
other friends in extending sympathy to
the bereaved ones.
Still Another Old Soldier Gone
Major G. M. Lynch, Christian, soldier
and leader among hip people, died at his
home in the Oolenoy section of Pickens
county. Sunday, March 12, and his body
was laid to rest with Masonic honors in
the'family burying ground the follow
day, after funeral services conducted
by Rev. B. C. Atkinson and Rev. B. F.
Murphree. He was 80 years old at the
time of his death. His funeral was at
tended by one of the largest crowds of
friends that ever attended a funeral at
Oolenoy.
Mr. Lynch was one of the most profn
inent citizens of this county and had
served his county well as commissioner
and as supervisor. He fought thruout
the civil war in the Confederate army
and rose by merit from private to the
rank of major. At the time of his
death he was a deacon of Holly Springs
Baptist church and had been superin
tendent of the Sunday School there for
forty consecutive years.
Mr. Lynch was twice married, first
to Miss Nancy Price, sister-of W; R.
Price, and the second time to Miss Ann
Lyon of North Carolina. Seven chil
dren were born by the first union and
one by the last. His second wife and
the following children survive him: W.
Rt. and G. A. Lynch, of Oconee county,
Lee C. Lynch, of Pisgah Forest, N. C.,
Mrs. Nettle Lewis and Mrs. .John D.,
Edens, of Pickens county.
Many hearts are sad over the death
of this noble citizen, but'we have the
full assurance. that he did his life's work
well and will reap his just reward.
May the God of our departed friend
comfort the bereaved ones.
The Land Sale Saturday
T1he sale of the McDaniel propeCrty,
just on the edge of Pickens, Saturday
will be one of the most interesting
events to take place here in some time
and will doubtless be attended by a
large crowd. This is valuable property,
has been divided into 115 residence lots
and will he sold to highest bidders on
easy terms. A brass band wvill be on
hand and furnish music and make the
afternoon more pleasant for those who
attend. The sale will begin at 1 o'clock
Saturday. March 18.
,Miss Mauildin Busy
Mliss Elizabeth Mauldin, home demon
stration agent of Pickens county, has
begun her work and great interest is
being shown by the people. A number
canning clubs and women's clubs have
already been organized. M auldin,
Crosswell, D~acusvilleI, Peters Creek,
Oolenoy and Six Mile were among the
first schools to have the clubs organized.
The wvork has been presented at other
schools and the clubs wtil be organized
later. Mi.ss Mauldin will visit other
schools during the week.
Pickens Hoy Dies For Country
Fred Griffin, the first American killed
in the raid by Villa's bandit force on
Columbus, New Mexico, last Thursday,
was a native of Pickens. At the time
of his death he was a private in 'roop
K, Thirteenth U. S. cavalry, and had
been in the army about 18th months.
Young Griffin was a grandson of Capt.
James A. Griffin, one of the prominent
citizens of this county, and a son of
Mr. and Mrs. Ambrose Griffin, who
moved from Pickens to Alabama about
sixteen years ago. They live now at
Cottondale, Ala., where the body of the
deceased soldier was buried. Fred
Griffin was born in Pickens' about 21
years ago in the house across the street
and directly in front of The Sentinel
office. He came from a family of sol
diers. His grandfather was a Confed
erate soldier in the civil war and his
father was in the Spanish-American
war.
The deceased soldier had many rel
atives in this county. Messrs. Joel R.
and E. R. Griffin are his uncles and
Mesdames J. M. Welborn, Jesse J.
Lewis and B. C. Baker are aunts of his.
Fred Griffin was one of the first
Americans to feel the fire of the invad
ing Mexicans. He was on sentry duty
when Villa's bandits launched their
charge and he at once gave the alarm
by firing into the body of Mexicans.
His rifle spoke death for at least two
Mexicans before he was mortally
wounded.
From Marietta Route 2
We arc knocking for entrance at the
correspondent's door again, and-will say
everything seems to be lovely in this
burg just-now, except the cold, snowy,
disagreeable weather.
Mr. and Mrs. J. D. McConnell gave a
musicale at their residence last Satur
day night. Music was furnished by the
Williams string band.
Cecil Jones visited L. S. Edens lasi
week.
Miss Catherine Wilkes, one of the
teachers of the Peters - Creek grade(
school, was visiting among her pupil
last week-end.
Mr. and Mrs. Allen K. Edens o
Oolenoy was visiting with W. A. Eden
last week.
The Misses Christine and Florin
Edens visited Arthur Looper and fam
ily of Dacusville route 1 last Sunday.
The old board of trustees for Peteri
Creek school district No. 35 were re
elected, as follows: W. H. Williams,
.Joseph E. Foster and Thomas Sammons.
We believe the patrons did well In se
lecting these gentlemen to serve another
term, as they are all worthy and capa
ble men for the positions.
The writer had the pleasure of hear
ing the boys boasting about their lucky
escape Saturday night, February 19,
when they called on some girls in the
beautiful city of Dacusville. The gopd
lady of the house came in and callxd
9 <I'clock bedtime at 8.55. The boys
were tickled to death to think she, had
saved them a job they hated to perform.
Try them again, boys.
, PnoGRESSivE.
Deaths at Easley-Barn Burn'ed
From the Progress, Miarch 8.
Mrs. Emma Mauldin' Rogers, widow
of the late Dan Rogers, died quite sud
denly at her home in Easley Sunday
morning last. She and a sister, Mrs.
Nancy Roper, who lived with her, were
sitting talking when a neighbor, Mr.
Calvin Smith, drove up. She got up
and went to the door, making some r~e
mark, then ,suddenly exclaimed, "I am
gone!" and fell, expiring in a few mo
ments. She is survivedl by two sisters,
Mrs. plancy Roper of Easley arnd Mrs.
Jasper Crow of Transylvania county.
N. C. The funeral, conducted by Rlev.
J. D. Holler, was held Tuesday and the
body was laid to rest in West View
cemetery.
Mrs. Henry H-iott of Alice Mill died]
Monday morning,. the 6ith inst., after
two weeks' illness at her home. She
was a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. N. 1).
Satterfield of Easley. Interment took
Place at West View cemetery the day
following her death.
The barn and corn crib of Mr. Early
Holder, who resides on Mr. G. W. Gil.
strap's farm near' Enon church, was de
stroyedl by fire last Wednesday night.
A fine mule, a mule colt, new top buggy,
one-horse wagon, farming implements,
harness and plo0w gear, together with
all his corn and roughness, were burned.
His milk cow escaped by breaking ou1
of the building. The fire was discov
ered by Mr. Gilstrap about 10 o'clocl
p. M., but when he got there it was to<
late to save~ anything. Mr. Holder'
loss is said to be about $500. No insur
ance. TVhe1 bihdings helmori to ..
Oratorical and Athletic Contests
The principals of high schools in Pick
ens county met in the auditorium of the
Easley school building Saturday and
elected Prof. G. W. Coggins of Easley
president and Prof. J. W. Wallace of
Central secretary and treasurer of the
.Pickens County Oratorical and Athletic
association.
Dates for the different contests were
fixed as follows: Girls' declamation
contest to be held at Central, Friday,
April 7; boys' oratorical contest to be
held at Easliy, Friday, April 14, and
the county athletic contest to be held
at Easley, Saturday, April 15.
Representatives in the boys' orator
ical contest will speak in the following
order: Dacusville, Easley, Six Mile,
Liberty, Central, Pickens, Roanoke.
The girls will speak in the following
order: Dacusville, Six Mile, Liberty,
Pickens, Central, Easley, Roanoke.
The constitution of the association
was changed so as to make the age
limit of young men eligible to compete
in the contests 21 years instead of 20,
and two speakers may use the same
declamation if they wish. If a speaker
wishes to change his declamation he
must notify the secretary ten days be
fore the contest.
An effort is being made to secure
suitable medals for winners of second
places in boys' and girls' contests. W.
M. Hagood, Sr., gives a gold medal
each year to the winner in the boys'
oratorical contest, and I. M. Mauldin
gives.a similar medal to the winner In
tlie girls' contest.
Pickens County Items
Rev. J. C. Bailey, Dr. W. M. Long
and J. J. Gantt were elected trustees of
Liberty school district in the recent
election.
Messrs. R. T. Thornton, P. M. Tay
lor and J. R. Martin were elected trus
tees of Easley school District in the re
cent election.
In the recent election the following
gentlemen were elected trustees of
Vineland school district. Charles Davis,
f J. P. Parr and F. B. Ponder.
Commissioner Wash Bowen's road
- scraping crew are improving the roads
- in the Cedar Rock and Cross Roads
communities. The road has been in
bad shape at the bridge near Arthur
Jones'. It is hoped that this will be
made passable. The crew is camped in
front of Shady Grove school house, near
George H. Hendricks'.
Rev. H. C. Bedford, president of the
Wesleyan College at Central, states
that the attendance at that college has
grown so within the past two years
that a new building is almost a necces
sity. To that end, he is endeavoring to
raise a fund of $10,000 in North and
South Carolina and Georgia to erect a
new building. Already several thous
and dollars have been subscribed.
e au tiful home weddings took place
on e 1st inst., at the home of the
bride's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Irwin,
near Easley, when Miss Anna Irwin and
Mr. R. T. McCombs were happily mar
ried in the presence of near relatives
and friends. Rev. John D). Holler per
formed the eer'emony. These young
people are very popular and have num
erous friends who wish them a long
and useful life. The happy couple left
immediately for their future liome at
Knoxville, Tenn.
Cob. C. L,. Cureton, of Pickens, is the
p~ossessor of a relic of unusual interest,
the reiic being a hunting horn made
and formerly owned b~y Davy Crockett,
a hero of the Alamo. The horn was
recently presented to Mr. Cureton b~y
his brother, J1. P. Cureton, of Green
woodl. David Crockett was a native of
Tennsseeandserved several :terms in
the national congress from that state.
Hie and Old .H- ickory Ja uckson were warm
friends at one time, but owing to a dis
agreement Crockett left the state of
Tennessee and wvent to Texas, where
he lost his life in the Alamo fighting
against Mexico for Tlexas' indlepend
ence. It was while in Texas that Crock-a
ett sent to his friend a Mr. McRae in
Tennessee the horn now ownedI by Mr.
Cureton. U pon the death of Mr. McRae
his son, Judge McRae, came into pos5
session of the horn, andl he later gave
Iit to his sister, a Mrs. Roberts, whose
son, Robert Roberts, tradbed it to J., P.
Cureton, for* a mariner's telescope
which was used on a blockade runner at
Charleston during the civil war. The
> horn much resembles hunting horns of
today and is trimmed with copper. Da-.
- vy Crmockett wats one of the most fain
ous of A mericamn citizens and Mr. Cure
ton prizes the relic highly.
SPCIA NOTICES'
Foss Male-Few b ushels Texas red
oats at 75c bushel. Also 20 bushels
Vandiver's heavy fruiter cotton seed at
$1 per bushel. G.A. Ellis, Pickens. 46
I have naoved niy meat market
into the building next door to the Pick- -
ens Bank and am 'conducting a lunch
counter in connection with It. ,Will be
glad to have you call on me. R. T.
riffin, Pickens.
050.00 Reward for the arrest and
proof to convict of any so-called oculist,
optician or spectacle vender who claims
to be manager or agent for the Globe
Optical Company of Greenville, S. C.
The Globe Optical Company.
For Male orTrade-My jack and
one of of my Reg. eaddle horses. Terms
to suit purchaser. J. B. Robinson,
Easley. 45
Wasated - Teams, 2.50 >er (lay.
Steady work. See A. B. Taylor.
P'restol's Planats-Send for my
new catalogue. It's free. Fred M.
Preston, Pine Castle Florida. 51
Tiose Big BargaliM in Coffee.
A big peck for $1, and it's guaranteed
good and strong. Over-bought tobacco.
Will get rid of it fast at the cut prices.
In clothing, wonien's suits and children's
caps-price them in reason and take
them. 7 packages soda 25c; 10 bars of
good soap 25c. Genuine Muscavado
molasses. It's certainly paying now to
see T. D. Harris.
Announcements
(Candidatos' oarde inerted in thi. Column for
leive Dollarn each, invariably In advance.
For Congress
I announce myself a candidate for
Congress from the Third Congressional
District of South Carolina, subject to
the rules of the Democratic party.
JOHN A. HORTON.
For Solicitor
I announce my candidacy for Solicitor
of the Thirteenth Judicial Circuit, sub
ject to the rules and results of the Dem
ocratic Primary election.
J. ROUT. MAinN.
For Clerk of Court
0. S. STvEWART is hereby announced
as a candidate for the office of Clerk of
Court of Pickens county, subject to the
rules and regulations of the Democratic
party in the primary election of 1916.
Notice of Final Settlement and
Discharge, and Notice to Debt
ors and Creditors.
Notice is hereby given that on the
22d day of April, 1916, I will apply to
his honor, J. B. Newbery, Judge of the
Probate Court of Pickens county, S.C.,
for a final settlement and discharge as
executrix of the estate of H. L. Clay
ton, deceased.
All persons holding claims against the
estate of said deceased please present
them to the undersigned on or before
'aid date properly proven.
MARY F. OLAYTON, Executrix.
March 11, 1916. 48
YOu Can't Tell By the
Color or Size of a Frog
The number of feet he can jump.
That's a business he knows
Which he doesn't disclose,
F'or he isn't that Kind of a chump!
Weo can~f't .imp so ver'y far,
but by keepirng everlastingly at,
it we hope to get part of your'
Let us figure with you on
your Fertilizers, Hay,' Corn,
Flour, or any other supplies you
nweed. If weo ca'n we wvill savA
you some1 1)noney.
A young ('OW for sale.
Morris & Co , Pickens,s.c.
Knowledge of the
Functions of the Eye
is necessary to 'fit glasses as they
should be fitted..
Glasses that are fitted by simply
trying glass a'fter glass until one is
fudthat gives goodl vision are
sure to be wrong and aipt to prove
injurious.
There are no haphazard methods
used in our tests. Each test is of
vital Importance and is made for a -
reason. Your eyes are safe in our
care.
GLOBE
Masonic Temple, Greenville, S.C.
A.. OIoo., President.
A. H. SoAn), Sec. & Tfreas.
Consulting Optomeotrists
