TUB COUUIElt
It davolail to lha bait IiiUtmIj
of Bl'HAY and WIIKKLKIt
COUNTY. Tha liberal patron.
Met of Ui.eltli.na of thli mw
lion to rwpwtf ully aoll.llad.
PnbHahad rrry Thursday by
RUSSELL D. PRICB.
BubacrlpUoa Ratal
ParYaar 1.00
Six Month. , M
Thxaa Month. Jf
VOL. XIV.
SPRAY, WHEELED COUNTlV OBEGCW, TIIUItSDAY, MARCH Hi, 191 G.
NO. 5.
VILLA IN U. S.
Columbus, N. M., Attacked by
15(H) Mexican Bandits.
16 PERSONS KILLED
United States Troopers Have Brisk
Engagement few Miles South of
Border. Villa's losses Big
and Capture Imminent.
Columbui, 'N. M. Francisco Villa,
outlawed Mexican bad nit, raided Unit
ed State territory Thursday. With
1600 men ho attacked Columbus, killed
at leaat 16 Americana and fired many
buildings before he wu driven back
across the International border.
At leant 250 trooperi of the Thir
teenth United Statca cavalry followed
the Villa band Into Mexico. Report
to Colonel II. J. Slocum late In the day
said that Villa had mado a stand five
miles south of the border, where spir
ited fighting ensued. In this engage
ment an unnamed private was killed
and Captain-Adjutant George Williams
was wounded.
The small detachmont of troopers
under Majors Tompkins and Llndsley,
, fighting dismounted, made a deter
mined stand against the renewed Villa
attack and at last reports were holding
their ground.
The raid to American territory
proved costly to the bandit chieftain
The bodies of 18 Mexican bandits. In
cluding Pablo Iopex, second in com'
mand, bad been gathered and burled
before noon and troopers reported an
undetermined number of dead atill ly
ing In the brush.
It ia estimated that Villa has lost
100 in killed and more than twice
many wounded, including his losses in
the pursuit by the American troopers
Led to the attack under the slogan.
"Death to the Americans I" Villa's fol
lowers fought with desperation. Just
before dawn they crept along ditches
skirting the United States cavalry
camp and rushed the sleeping town,
firing heavily.
The first volley brought American
troopers into almost instant action,
While a portion of the raiders engaged
the cavalrymen, others, detailed by the
bandit chieftain, began applying the
torch and shooting American civilians
who ventured from the buildings,
Lights in homes and public buildings
immediately became targets for snip
ers posted at Villa's direction. Other
bandits, creeping close to American
homes, enticed several civilians into
the open with English-spoken invita
tions. Several fatalities are attributed
to this ruse.
VILLA f ORCES RAZE RAILROAD
TRACKS AND HEM IN MORMONS
Columbus. N. M. Villa made his
hiding place known Monday for the
first time since the Ores of looted Co
lumbus lighted his escape into the
gray Mexican hills south of town.
With S009 men at his back the bandl
chief tore up the track of the North
western of Mexico railroad at Corral-
Itos and swept toward the Mormon set
tlements in the San Miguel valley.
J his bold stroke has cut off from es
cape into the United States COO Mor
mons who had planned to make their
way to safety across the border. The
ruthless raider has announced that he
win put to death every man, woman
and child in the settlement.
The Mormons are all that revolution
has left in the fertile country around
Casas Grandea in the Guerrero district
of Chihuahua. There were formerly
20,000 Mormons from the United
States settled at a dozen colonies in
the San Miguel valley. They had es
tablished prosperous settlements at
Dublan, Casaa Grandos, Colonia Gar
cla, Colonia Guarez, Colonia Juarez,
Colonia Chulchupa and other garden
spots.
They have been planning since the
raid on Columbus to return to the
United States. Villa was informed,
After his raid Into New Mexico he
hurried to Guzman to await the Mor
mons on their passage to El Paso.
Learning he was lying in ambush for
their destruction, the Mormons delayed
their attempt to escape. Villa struck
outhward and cut the railroad at Cor-
ralitos.
CARRANZA DEMANDS MEWS ITEMS
nriinnnn 1 1 m'i i ixn I Of General Interest
IlLllrltUlAL 1(1 Oil I i
M . M a
turn rtt I rtvcctnrt Knennr
Sought by Mexico.
FORMAL MANIFESTO ISSUED TO PEOPLE
Mexicans Told He Will Fight Before
He Will Surrender Dignity and
Honor of Mexican Nation.
Washington, D. C. Washington
stands squarely behind Colonel Slocum
in sending his cavalrymen into Mexico
in pursuit of Francisco Villa and his
band of outlaws who raided Columbus,
N. M murdering American soldiers
and citizens and firing the town.
Secretary Lansing informed the de
M A I . 1 1.
ibcio government oi Mexico mrougn
Eliseo Arrodondo, its ambassador des
ignate here, that he trusted no objec-
tion would be made to the action of
the American troops, they having fol
lowed what Is known in military cir
cles as a "hot trail." No orders have
been issued for the return of the Bold
iers, and it is not probable any will be
Issued lor the present.
Reports that the American troopers
were in action probably 15 miles south
of the border against a much larger
force of bandits were heard with anx
ious interest in official circles.
Five troops of cavalry crossed the
boundary early in the day. At a late
hour It was not known officially just
where they were or just what account
they had given of themselves.
While no formal word of the policy
of the administration was given out, it
was reliably stated that free rein
would be given the army to catch the
bandits if possible. It was not consid
ered in administration circlea that
Colonel Slocum 's act in any sense con
stituted an invasion of Mexico, a pol
icy which the administration has op
posed in the past and will continue to
oppose.
The State department at first had
planned to ask permission of the Car
ranza government to send troops across
the border in pursuit of the outlaw
bandit. Then came official word that
the cavalry already had crossed. Later
Mr. Arredondo called ' on Secretary
Lansing, expressed regret for the Villa
raid, and was informed of the attitude
of the United States.
Mexico City General Carranza Sun
day night issued a manifesto to the
nation declaring that under no circum
stances would the Mexican government
grant to the United States a right to
violate her sovereignty by sending an
armed force In pursuit of Villa with
out the consent and reciprocal privil
ege being first obtained and admitted.
General Carranza said in his mani
festo:
I am sure that I interpret in this
matter the national sentiment and that
the Mexican people will comply in a
dignified manner with their duty, be
the sacrifices what they may, to sus
tain their rights and sovereignty, if
unfortunately thia drags us into war
which the United States can never
justify. We will not be responsible
TomwIfiWl NnrWPPtaa VKtfl or tne disasterous consequences. Up-
-o on the heads of the traitorous Mexi
About Oregon
Big Lumber Order Received
for Freight Car Building
Eugene The Booth-Kelly Lumber
company has just closed a contract
which is said to be the largest ob
tained by a Willamette valley mill in
several years, entering into an agree
ment to aupply the Ralston Steel Car
company with 9,000,000 feet of lum
ber to be used in the manufacture of
cars for the Southern Pacific railroad
company.
me order is the second or this na
ture booked by the Booth-Kelly com
pany within the past few weeks, ac
cording to A. C. Dixon, manager.
, Tbe lumber in the contract is to be
used in the manufacture of 2000
freight, flat and other cars.
. The contract was awarded at a
meeting held in Cincinnati, where a
large number of biddera representing
lumber companies in all parts of the
United States were present. The lum
ber will be Buppiled at intervals ex
tending throughout the summer.
As soon as weather conditions per-
Americans Rescued from
Washington, D. C. The State de
partment received Monday a cable
gram from Consul Osburn at Havre,
France, saying that the Norwegian
bark Stilus had been torpedoed in
Havre (roads, without warning, ac
cording to members of the crew, but
that seven Americana on board had
been rescued.
So far dispatches to the State de
partment aimply have aaid the vessel
was torpedoed without warning. No
mention waa made of the nationality
of the submarine.
The Americans on board were mem
bers of the crew. ,
Secretary Lansing has instructed
Consul Osborn to secure and forward
immediately aU available details of
the sinking of the bark SiUus.
If a torpedo did destroy the bark,
which was bound to Havre from New
York with grain, the government re
sponsible will be held to strict ac
countability. Such an act would be
contrary to all the assurances which
the United States has secured.
Officials seemed inclined, however.
to refrain from forming an opinion
until it was known positively that a
torpedo, and not a mine, sunk the ship,
Should Consul Osburn s investiga
tion establish trust a torpedo actually
was responsible, the United states
officials indicated they will view the
matter even more serious than if a
passenger carrying vessel was in
volved. The American seamen have
even a greater claim to protection
than passengers. A passenger travels
at his discretion, while a seaman is
compelled to do so by his occupation.
Serious Shortage in Paper Material.
Washington, D. C. The attention
of the department of Commerce is
called by the president of a large pa
per manufacturing company to the
fact that there is a serious shortage of
raw material for the manufacture of
paper, including rags and old papers,
He urges that the department should
make it known that the collecting and
saving of rags and old papers would
greatly better existing conditions for
American manufacturers.
Something like 15,000 tons of differ
ent kinds of paper and paperboard are
manufactured every day in the United
States and a large ' proportion of this
after it has served its purpose could
be used over again in some class of
paper. A large part of it, however, is
either burned or otherwise wasted,
This, of course, has to be replaced by
new materials. It the early history of
the paper industry publicity was given
to the importance of saving rags. It
is of scarcely less importance now. A
little attention to the saving of rags
and old papers will mean genuine re
lief to our industry and a diminished
drain upon our sources of supply for
new materials.
cans who, within and without this
country, have labored to produce this
result will fall the inexorabe justice of
the people.
"The cause of the assault which
Francisco Villa and the bandits who
accompanied him made on the town of
Columbua, in American territory,
burning houses and killing some of
the inhabitants, soldiers, as well as
citizens, the international situation in
these moments is very delicate, as the
North American press have incited
their people against Mexico and the
government of that country has dis
cussed the situation in the American
congress, members of which have ad'
vised intevention.
The constitutional government
which I have the honor to represent is
also occupied diligently in an effort to
solve this delicate situation, trying at
all costs to maintain the dignity and
sovereignty of Mexico, and we yet
hope that this lamentable incident may
be decorously arranged and that there
will be no reason for conflict.
I have addressed the government
of the United States, through the for
eign office, stating that the invasion
of Villa has historical precedents, as
in the years 1880 and 1886, two par
ties of Indians, coming from the Unit
ed States, invaded Sonora and Chi
huahua, committing crimes and depre
dations on the lives and properties of
Mexicans.
"It was agreed then between the
governments of the two countries to
permit the respective passage of
armed forces, resulting in the extern
ination of the Indians. I have asked
the American government to pursue a
like course, in order to solve future
difficulties, should they arise, noting
that Villa and his companions are a
group of bandits whose acta the Mexi
can government or people would not
be responsible for, and that his re
proachable conduct is due to instiga
tion of the reactionary element that,
lacking in patriotism and convinced of
its defeat, is trying by all means to
bring on armed intervention.
I have not yet received the answer
of the American government, 'and
from the reports of my chiefs along
the frontier learn that the American
forces are mobilizing to pursue and
capture and deliver him to the Mexi
can authortiies; that the expedition is
in the nature of a punitive campaign
and that the sovereignty of Mexico
will be respected.
"The constitutional government has
given instructions to its confidential
agent at Washington immediately to
make representations that under no
circumstances, with any motive, be
the reasons or explanations of the
United States what they may, will it
justify the armed invasion of Mexican
territory without reciprocal rights be
ing granted to the Mexicans and that
not for an instant will the invasion of
Mexican territory or an outrage to its
dignity to tolerated. "
rait the mills at Wendling and Spring
field will resume operations, with pros
pects of a good summer's business,
provided the car situation does not interfere.
Rodent Fighters Unite.
Klamath Falls The idea of the
farmers of a neighborhood banding to
gether for organized rodent extermina
tion work has proved popular in Kla
math county. Besides clubs at Bo
nanza, Langell Valley, Merrill, Malin
and Lorella, all of which were recently
organized, the Hildebrand Farmers'
club was organized at Hildebrand,
about 25 miles east of this city, and
the farmers of the Spring Lake sec- j
tion, in the basin east of the city, are !
effecting an organization there.
More than 40 farmers attended the
Hildebrand meeting and 25 joined the
club, selecting the following officers:
President, Charley Drew: vice presi
dent, J. G. Wight; ' secretary-treas
urer, W. F. Wilkerson, and poison
mixer, Charles Drew, Jr. Ground
squirrels and coyotes are the pests to
be fought. Poison mixtures are pre
pared according to government forma
las.
Big Wool Sale Reported.
Baker The largest amount of wool
contracted for in years is reported by
Berthold and Gerson Neuberger, who
announced they had contracted for
nearly 500,000 pounds for Portland and
Eastern concerns. From 20 to 21
cents was the average price stipulated,
making an outlay of more than $100,-
000.
The clips contracted for include
those of Orson Moody, between 80,000
and 90,000 pounds; M. F. Cundiff, 20,
000 pounds; A. H. Hampton, of Hunt
ington, 95,000 pounds; and E, John
son, 85,01)0 pounds. The names of
other sellers were not given out.
With the lambing season at an end,
shearing will commence within a short
time. Buyers believe that a large per
centage of the wool this year will be
contracted in advance.
PRESIDENT WINS IN HOUSE
McLemore Warning Resolution Laid
on Table, 276 to 142.
Tense Situation Is Ended When Session, Sway
ed for Seven Hours by Most Sensation
al Episode in Decade, Decides to
"Stand by President.'
Business Right Upheld.
Salem The retaliatory building and
loan association law passed by the
state of Washington does not give
Corporation Commissioner Schulder
man, of Oregon, the right to act like
wise and refuse the Pacific Building &
Loan association of the state of Wash
ington, the right to do business in this
state, the attorney general's office has
ruled.
If the Washington concern, .which a
short time ago withdrew from business
in Oregon, makes its annual report to
Commissioner Schulderman, and pays
up its annual license fees, the attorney
general holds it has the right to con
tinue in business in this state.
War in Albania Renewed.
Berlin, by wireless to Sayville, N.
Y. Fighting between Italian and
Austrian troops in Albania haa been
renewed. '
Austrian forces advancing along
the coast between Durazzo encoun
tered Italian soldiers who, after a few
skirmishes, fell back in the direction
of Avlona, their principal position
in Albania, according to an offi
cial statement received here from Vienna.
Employes Ordered Out.
Laredo, Tex. American concerns
operating in the Monterey district and
in the vicinity of Mapimi, state of
Durango, have ordered their employes
to leave Mexico at once, owing to un
rest among the lower classes of Mexi
cans, according to American passen
gers from that section, 250 of whom
reached the border here Monday. There
is no apparent ill-feeling against
Americans in Nuevo Laredo and the
order in this vicinity is normal.
Highway Route Inspected.
Roseburg For the purpose of ascer
taining the needs of Douglas county
with reference to state aid in road
construction, John H. Lewis, state
highway engineer, passed Saturday in
Roseburg conferring with the mem
bers of the County court and other
prominent citizens.
While Mr. Lewis refused to divulge
his plans regarding the construc
tion of the new state highway through
Douglas county, he said work on the
road would begin as soon as the neces
sary funds are available.
Washington, D. C. President Wil
son Tuesday completely and decisely
won hia long fight to compel congress
to acknowledge that it stands behind
him in the submarine negotiations
with Germany. .
To the rallying cries of "Stand by
the President 1" and "It is Lansing
and Wilson or Von Bernstorff and the
Kaiser!" a big Democratic majority
and nearly half the Republicans in the
house rolled up overwhelming votes
against the movement to warn Ameri
cans off armed ships of the European
belligerents.
The celebrated McLemore resolution.
around which the anti-administration
forces centered their fight, wss tabled
in other words, killed just as was
the Gore resolution for a similar pur
pose in the senate last week.
From the outset of the fight the
President's supporters, without regard
to party, swept over the opposition.
On the first vote, which was a par
liamentary proposition to prevent
opening the McLemore resolution to
amendment and unlimited debate, the
administration forces carried the day,
256 to 160. On that, 192 Democrats,
63 Republicans and 1 Progressive voted
to support the administration. Twenty
one Democrats, . 132 Republicans, 5
Progressives, one Independent and
Representative London, the lone So
cialist of the house, voted against it.
This waa the crucial vote of ., the fight,
the one on which administration lead
ers were uncertain. With victory in
band they moved on to the next prop
osition, the adoption of a special rule
for four hoars' discussion of the Mc
Lemore resolution.
Again they carried the day, this
time 271 to 138, and then pushed their
victory to a conclusion by tabling the
McLemore resolution, 276 to 142.
In seven hours of tense, turbulent
session, in which the administration
opponents charged that the President
was contending for a doubtful legal
right and was shifting the responsi
bility of diplomatic negotiation to con
gress, the house swayed back and forth
in the most sensational congressional
spectacle of a decade, probably un
equalled since the eve of the declara
tion of war on Spain.
President Wilson, calm and confi
dent, heard the early results of the
voting in the cabinet-room at the
White House with some of the cabinet
grouped about him. He told them he
was much gratified with the support of
congress.
Released from the bonds of embar
rassment forced upon him by the dis
sensions in congress, which have been
represented in foreign capitals as indi
cating that he was making his de
mands on Germany in direct opposition
to the sentiment of the elected repre
sentatives of the people, President
Wilson now stands prepared to go on
with the submarine negotiations .with
the central powers.
The next step probably win be an
answer to Germany's last proposal to
settle the Lusitania case, in which the
United States probably will ask
for such farther assurances as it con
aiders sufficiently broad and complete
to guarantee that the new submarine
campaign, which began on March 1
and in which notice has been given
that all ships carrying guns will be
sank without warning, will not endan
ger Amercians traveling the seaa on
merchant vessels.
The President and his advisers re
gard the action of the house as a suffi
cient answer to reports circulated in
Berlin, sent from Washington, . that
congress stood two to one against him
in the crisis.
Stand by the President and do not
embarrass him in his diplomatic ne
gotiations with foreign countries,"
was the whole burden of the argument
of the administration leaders. .
They paid little attention to the in
volved legal phases of the situation.
It was enough, they argued, that the
President had said the reported atti
tude of congress as opposed to his pol
icy was embarrassing him abroad, and
that they stuck.
Tributes were paid to the President
by almost all the Democratic speak
ers, from Acting 'Chairman Poo, of
the rules committee, who opened the
debate, to Chairman Flood, of the for
eign affairs committee, who closed it.
It is charged that the President
wants war," said Mr. Pou "All the
imps of hell never devised a more in
famous charge. No man since Abra
ham Lincoln has gone through such a
test as the President in the lsst six
months to avoid war. He has tried to
preserve peace. He would not sacri
fice a single life to make himself Pres
ident for his lifetime."
Text of McLemore Resolution, Which Brought Tight
Between President and House to a Decisive Issue
dobs Are Awaiting Men.
Marshfield There are more jobs
here than men, in most localities.- The
Willamette-Pacific construction work
between Coos Bay and Reedsport is
short of workmen and the crew has
been reduced from 65 to 12. It was
reported that the crew above the Ump-
qua river had dwindled from 125 to
less than 20. Work is delayed on ac
count of the men quitting. They are
leaving for the outside.
Washington, D. C The text of the
McLemore resolution, following
lengthy preamble, is as follows :
nesoived, That the house of repre
sentatives of the 64th congress of the
United States do and it hereby solemn
ly does, request the President to warn
all American citizens within the bor
ders pf the United states or its pos
sessions, or elsewhere, to refrain from
traveling on any and all ships of any
and all of the powers now or in future
at war, which ship or ships shall
mount guns, whether such ship by
frankly avowed a part of the naval
forces of the power whose flag it flies
or shall be called a merchant ship or
otherwise, and whether such gun or
guns or other armament be called of
fensive or 'defensive, and in case
American citizena do travel on such
armed belligerent ships that they do
so at their own risk.
'That whenever the President of
the United States or the Secretary of
State shall come into possession of the
actual memorandum of the German
government, containing photographic
facsimilies of alleged secret instruc
tions direct that so-called 'defensive
armament for merchant ships' shall be
used offensively and that so-called 'de
fensive armament for merchant ships'
shall be manned and directed by naval
officers and men of the navy of Great
Britain and that such so-called 'defen
sive armament for merchant ships'
and such naval officers and men shall
be as far as possible concealed and dis
guised when in neutral waters and
ports, with the evident intention to
deceive, the President of the United
States or the Secretary of State shall
at the earliest possible moment trans
mit such actual memorandum of the
German government; with such fac
similies of alleged secret instructions
of the British government and with all
appendices whatsoever to the Speaker
of the house, that it and they may be
laid before the house for its full in
formation and for its assistance in
performing its duty and function of
guarding the welfare of the country
and its citizens, and for its assistance
in performing its constitutional duty
of advising the President of the United
States with regard to foreign rela
tions.
"That the house expresses the de
termination of the people and govern
ment of the United States both to up
hold all American rights and to exer
cise care, consideration and wisdom in
avoiding actions which tend to bring
American citizens and American in
terests into the zone of conflict where
the passions of war are raging."
Four Die in Hot Water Vat.
Connellsville, Pa, Four men were
drowned and others injured here Wed
nesday when the roof covering a vat of
hot water in the Baltimore & Ohio
railroad shops collapsed in the course
of a religious meeting. ' The men had
assembled to hear a talk by an evan
gelist who is conducting services in
one of the churches, and several
climbed to the top of the vat, which
collapsed. Six men were saved by the
prompt action of persons nearby.
Senate Confirms Baker.
Washington, D. C. The nomination
of Newton D. Baker, ex-Mayor of
Cleveland, as Secretary of War waa
confirmed late Wednesday by the sen
ate. Unanimous commendation of Mr.
Baker's appointment was expressed by
the cabinet at the meeting here. Gen
eral Hugh L. Scott, secretary of War
ad interim, told the President that the
nomination had been favorably receiv
ed among army officers.
