WEATHER FORECAST:
Fair tonight and Monday.
(Full Report on Fafce Two.)
Sunday Evening I
Edition
n Wmt
-j : t i : r
NUMBEB6870.
ARMY STAYS IN
AFTER UNUSUAL
BUSINESS MEN HE
SIM FOND TO AID
HERO POLICEMAN
Traffic Officer Ippolito Hovering
Between Life and Death at
Emergency Hospital.
HIT SAVING CHILD'S LIFE
The Ippolito Fund
i
Contributions already received
for the Ippolito Fund:
The Washington Times, $25;
cash, $25; Sidbie, $25; John
Brosman, jr., $10; Simon
Wolf, $10.
Willi Crossing Policeman Frank T
Zppollto .hovers bctwen life and death
at Emergency Hospital as the. result
i'cf his herolms of yesterday, a move-
(tnent I afoot among; the business men
f "Washington to raise a fund for the
rhyaklan At .Emergency Hospital ba
iler today that he cannot recover.
partly conscious, the tfoHeeroan lies on
Ml hoeltl cot. babbling Incoherently
waUa elosfrilattvss steal In tq sit
Silently- beeMa .his -bed for a. few oi
meats anoeai. away again.
At the IjtooUto homo, 19 H street
i lOrtheaat, this morning, the children of
i ha mas who was' struck ycatnrday by
30uty Fire pMhlof Sullivan' a automo
Ue 'while he was trying to save the
! if ot a venturesome Utile boy, sat
about crying -softly,' fori nowthey know
that their fathre probably will die.
Abandon Hope.
The Uttle mother, Vlncenza, who apenl
part of (he moraine at the hospital,
has about abandoned hope, and added
to the possibility, of the greatest be
reavement which could befall her. has
come the knowledge that should her
husband die. there will bo no police
pension for him.
He was a crossing officer, and such
policemen are nto regarded as members
ofthe regular force. .
Therefore Ippolito had no pension.
Neither was he a member of tho Police
man's Relief Association which would
have given his family 11,000 In the event
of bis death.'
Learning these facts, scores of people
called up The Times this morning, and
urged that a fund for the wife and chil
dren bo started,
Simon Wolf was among the numbor.
He declared the city of Washington
owes It to Itself to see that thoso de
pendent upon. a. man .such. as Ippolito,
has Braved himself to be. do not face
destitution or privation as tho result of
sucn Heroism, ...... . . .
Mr. Wolfs attitude was echoed in the
sentiments of many more of those who
have Interested themselves In the move
ment, and ho and several others sent
their ..checks in this morning, as ac
knowledged in the accompanying box.
h Te Times, wishing to see the move
ment succeed, headed the list with IS.
A committee of business men to take
charge of the money .Is In the process of
formation, but until they ore organized,
The Times wjll receive any contribu
tions toward me am ot me injured po
liceman. The money will be held by
The Times and then turned over to the
committee UDon Its formation.
One of the first contributions to the
ilppollto fund came from John Brosnan,
Jr., who enclosed' in a Ieter a check for
In his leter, Mr. Brosnan wrote : "En
closed is S10 .fpr .the benefit of the wife
and children of Officer Ippolito, who
has in oil .likelihood, given his life to
save that of a child of another parent.
"While hla .act wan In the line of
duty., the loss will fall with no lesi
weight on .his . family because of this
fact I consider this in every way a
most 'worthy cause."
Hoveral other contributions were re
ceived about the time that ot Mr. liros
nan was reported, and they give evi
dence of the deep feeling which 1'otico
man Ippollto's act has aroused-among
the business men of Seventh stroct.
That the policeman has very little
chance of recovery was the opinion ot
Dr. Lewis, superintendent of the hos
pital, today.
'lAlthough Ippolito Is semi-conscious.
hi) words are incoherent, and I do not
regard the chango In his condition as
slight as It Is as being a particularly
favorable Indication. Thcro has been
nothing yet which I take as warrant
ing hope for his recovery."
The physician added that unless a
dednlto change for tho better was
manifested In Ippollto's condition, he
did not bel(eve an operaUon would be
performed.
ROOSEVELT SUFFERS
FROM SEVERE COLD
Throat Treatment Tomorrow To
Begin Tour on Friday.
OYSTER BAY. April ...-Colonel
Roosevelt received only a few callers
today. He Is still suffering from n se
vere cold, and will go to Now York to
morrow to have his throat treated.
The colonel had no comment to make
on the political situation. lie will prob
ably make a further announcement of
his Ideas In addresses In tho West be-
Snnlng a wek from tomorrow, He
avaa (or Chicago on Friday.
Battle Against Dope
A Dramatic Struggle
On Part of U. S. Agents
What Government Has Do ne in Last Year Makes De
Quincey's "Confessions of an Opium Eater"
Seem a Tame Tale.
Gaunt, unlovely, emaciated, weary from long soul-tortures', through
sleepless nights peopled with wrange phantoms from the mind's Un
real, a very young, yet tragically old girl of the Virginia mountains
sits today in a sanitorium. Her law, agonized nerves shriek in teirify
ing clamor, begging, plead'ne for "just one mofe shot of morphine."
Her eyes with' pin:point pupils, seem always to be gazing ahead
into Nothingness, from the brink of suicide on which she stood, when
her friends snatched her back from self-murder and placed her in he
hospital.
Beside the woman is a littlj iron crib. In it lies a sixteen-month-old
baby her daughter. There is something of the uncanny light of
the mother's eyes reflected in the weak pupils of. the infant. The
baby',8. tiny fingers knot themselves into scrawny fists, only to open
again and play uncertainly at the coverings, while the little mite tosses
about, whispering restlessly.
For the baby, all unconsciously, is, like the Voman, fighting that
battle which has proved too bitter for so many strong men the.soul
scathing battlo of -the dope fiend.
Impossible? No. Dr. B. R.;Rhees, of the division of narcotics,
Bureau of Internal Revtum tn. nriine iiinnilnn v.. ..... v.-,- u.
--.- , ..., .,, .... iivimiuii .iiib wwc lias uccil
called, declares that, he karned-'thefchild'a mother had hm tabi.
thirtv prains of mnrnhlnrtarrliu"' 'Thuc th infant ti......t, :.- .i -!
-j o -- r - --
oreast, since Dirtn ; nas teen assimilating at least one grain every
twenty-four hoursa quantity sufficient; if taken in a single dose, to
kill a normal adult.
And it is for this little mountain mother with her infant daughter,
and for a million other drug enslaved men and women in the United
States today, that the most dramatic warfare of all human history is
being waged.
When the Harrison anti-narcotic law went into effect a year ago,
officials of the Internal Revenue and the Customs, took the field
(Continued on Paga Four.)
Gerard Cables Report
Of Berlin Conference
Outlines Preliminary Views of German Government
, on Ultimatum Officials Here Refuse to Com
ment on Contents of Dispatches.
Important dispatches from Ambassa
dor Gerard outlining the preliminary
views ot the Ocrmna government on the
submarine Issue were received by tne
State Department today.
(Jfilclals absolutely refused to discuss
tho Ucrard dispatches. It was inti
mated, however, that they were not
sufllclcntly conclusive to give any Indi
cation ot the nature of Berlin's reply to
the American demand for abandonment
of illegal submarine warfare.
Ambassador Qernard has held several
conferences with Korelgn Minister von
Jagow since the American ultimatum
was delivered, it Is understood he ad
vised Washington that a reply might
be expected by the middle or latter part
of this week.
Count von Bernstorff, the German am
bassador, Is scheduled to confer with
Secretary Lansing tomorrow.
A number ot code messages havo been
received at the German emDassy since
the delivery of the American ultimatum.
Ambassador Von Bernstorlt 'Is expectsd
to conduct diplomatic negotiations here
of a nature similar to those In progress
between Foreign Minister Von Jagow
and Mr. Gerard In an effort to tlnd a
means for disposing of the submarine
Issue without a break In relations be
tween the two governments.
unofficial advices nave been received
In Waihlngton that a number ot German
newspapers which have been ardent ad
vocates of stringent suomanne methods
are now adopting a milder tone. This
is taken as a favorable Indication.
It Is known that Ambassador Von
Gernstorff has advised his government
to glvv tho most careful consideration to
the American demands. The ambassa
dor li working most vigorously to avoid
a rupture. He does not wish a break
between the two countries until the last
dlDlorr.at c step has failed.
senator stone, cnairman or tne senate
Foreign Relations Committee, has can
celled an engagement ho Had with Presi
dent Wilson on the submarine Issue at
the White House tomorrow night. It Is
understood Senator Stone anU tho Prest
dent Intended, to discuss means of pre
venting any congressional agitation ot
the submarine crisis while the German
reply Is awaited.
senator Stone is expected to see the
i'rcsldont later tn the week.
IIKIIMN, April H (Sunday).-Chan-cellar
von Uethmann-Hollwcg returned to
Berlin early today from army head
quarters, where he bad beta conferring
Washington,
.. - . ...v. liuaiiir llliuugli 113 :iiuiiici 3.
with Emperor William regarding the
muuiican suomanne note.
Ambassador Gerard conferred tonight
nun rureiln AllnlMftr vnn Jim. i.
gardlng tho American aubmarlno note
--- -w TTM. n UIIOl UHC.
,h "ene.ral. l!r of press comment
on the. note Is that tho situation be
tween Germany and the United states
1. ,lflf.l ho. I. .. .
x iin coni.r.nPA u. . ..!.. -..
blaft Bala- ' wrlt,nK ln the ''
"Th't government has not taken the
. I. v i:uuing unarmed me-
fJi'JJf1- "h,p8 i8 '.'Bal' We have not
wished to torpedo unarmed ships, dc-
atrovltlir nffmAflll n.nnl. ...Un ...
to sal. the perilous seas. No war aim
ll alAHA ftU.ma.L ..
. . cu "uan sucn ecie.
"ihe i tnieatening break with America
must be considered solemnly," said the
yosslsche ,eltung. "Only the cool
t must speak, and only as a result
..L' met iiivesiigauons.
"Tn. innfn,nnM. ... .....
quarters will determine the text and
tprm of our answer to Wilson. The
German people dare await that answer,
confident that It will maintain their
iiuunr, ana nope mat tne American
DennlA. in WnniA It.nrta ...III l. L 1 .
de.?Lal2n' win leat the German answer
" " '
Lloyd-George Replies
To Harsh Criticism
i.nvnnv Anrii Mn.niuin ,n t,...i.
criticism growing out of his fight for
Bcucrai conocripuon in me recent cabi
iiwv wu.it, niiniMcr 01 Aiunilions L,10VU
Georgo wired the following statement to
Reynold's Weekly from his country
u n' 'VB,es, iasi nigm:
anuii wuimnuij io oo wnat i conceive
to be my duty to the nation in Its hour
of soro trial, heedless of personal attack
or pcrouiini consequences,"
Lawyer Who Lost Case
Swallows Dose of Poison
TONOPAH. Nov., April M.-Rather
than faco a client whoso case ho had
lost btcause of an Inadvertant error, P.
M. Bowler, one of Nevada's most prim!
nent attorneys, committed suicide here
by drinking poison. Bowler left a note
ln which he explained that it was his
first error of that sort ln forty ears
of practice, and that he preferred death
to faciug tho man who rstalned, hun.
sunday KvuNiNa,
MEXICO, IS DECISION
SUNDAY CONFERENCE
POLITICIANS SHOW POLICEMAN IN WILD
ALARM QVER VOTE DASHNABSSPEEDER,
POLLED FOR FORD SOLVES ROBBERIES1
, . I
Michigan Primary Results Were
Considered Joke, But Ne
braska Is Different.
SHOWS PACIFIST STRENGTH
By JUDSON C. WELL1VER.
When Henry Ford carried Michigan
for fie Republican Presidential nomi
nation, the faces of the politicians
broadened.
When he came within an ace of car
rying Nebraska, their faces lengthen
ed.
Tho Michigan result was explainable
as, a (.loomy Joke on Senatpr William
Alder. Smith. It didn't necessarily have
any large political significance except
to hliu.
'Mr. Ford was a leading citizen of
Michigan, perhaps the best advertised
man In the Commonwealth: thero Is a
great wage-earning vote In Michigan,
with which Mr. Ford la exceedingly
popular. In fact, somebody pointed out
that If all Mr. Ford's own employes
had voted for him, they would have
provided a very liberal proportion of
the light vote In which he defeated
Senator Smith.
Nebraska Different.
But when. .Nebraska, which Is next
dpor neighbor to Senator Cummins, and
contains a big population of former
Iowans. came within a halr'a-breadth
of giving Its support to Ford in prefer
ence to Cummins, the situation became
verr different.
It was a good deal more than a Joke
on Renator Cummins.' It was an Indica
tion of a trend of sentiment among the
people of the middle West, with refer
ence to International matters. State
pride it State loyalty could not have
won Mr. Ford's vote ln Nebraska.
I asked four Nebraska men If thoy
knew whether Mr. Ford ha aver been
In their State, and all four Mid they
were not sure.
As compared to Michigan Nebraska
has no great labor vote that might be
cited In explanation of his strength.
Tet despite all this it looked for two
days after the primary as If h might
have carried the State. '
It seems unavoidable that the Ford
strength represented sympathy with
his vlewa on the question of war and
peace, because that la the only ques
tion on which he has any views that
have become generally known about.
Concerning the tariff, for Instance,
Mr. Ford's opinions are about as ac
curately understood as they are with
reference to the southern vehicle or
Buddhism. Maybe he believes In an
income tax, and then again maybe he
doesn't: a man of his preposterous
financial reliability might be excused
for entertaining a certain prejudice
against that mode of revenue produc
tion.
May Have Views.
So far as the public In general Is In
formed, there has been quite as much
significance In Mr. Ford's views about
the canals of Mars as with regard to
the regulation of carriers. He may
have Impressions about the banking
and currency system; but there Is a
feeling that he hasn't recently been
cumpwiica iu excite nimseir mucn
(Continued on Page Eighteen.)
Work Rushed at
Boston Navy Yard
Army and Navy Men Barred
From Leaving City by
Rigid Orders.
BOSTON. April H.-Every enlisted
man of the army and navy is being pre
vented from leaving Boston by the po
lice department at request from officers
of the Charlcatown navy yard.
Seventeen sailors from the battleship
New Jersey wero rounded up this morn
ing for having overstayed shore leave.
Every shop at the navy yard la to be
readv for sea by May 20. The order
which was given to the police forbid
ding enlisted men from lenvlng the city
was nUo transmitted to every railroad
ticket office requesting that no tickets
be sold to uniformed men.
This order nrcvented r.rnctlrnllv nil
whore leave men from making short
trips for Easter outside of Boston.
Colored Federal Workers
In City Organize Union
The colored unskilled laborer, em
ployed by the United States Govern
ment In Washington have been organ
ized Into a union by L. A, .Sterne,
volunteer organizer of the American
Federation of Labor.
Organizer Sterne, who took the first
steps to organize the Washington
street car men, says the unskilled la
borers hope to bring about many de
sirable changes In working conditions
by means of their wtloa,
apbil 28, 1010.
Warren Forced to Use Revolver
to End Thrilling Crosstown
Chase Into Maryland.
STOLEN JEWELRYRECOVERED
cmlainr unlit h nn Connecticut avenue
early this morning on the lookout for.
traffic law violators. Motorcycle Police
man Warren, o fthe Seventh precinct,
picked up the trail of what he believed
to be an ordinary midnight Joyrider.
Hit gave chaso, and the driver ot the
automobile, which Warren says, was
making too much speed, attempted to
draw away from hlra.
Warren, however, hung close behind
and the pursuit led across the Connec
ticut Avenue Bridge. On the bridge,
,lA nAlln.tr.aN .drift. nlv r.ntlv.ri thAt
,lig I'WI.W.;....,, DUUUH..I. wa..vw.a ...
the man he was pursuing was zig-zag-
ging irom Blue io ur, ana mm n- va
in danger ot running Into the rear of
the machine or of being crushed be
tween the car and the bridge ratling If
he attempted to drive up beside and
overhaul the car.
Long Chase Is On.
Pursuing his zlgzsag tactics, the mo
torist headed eastward, across town and
the policeman settled down to hold the
trail. The fleeing car finally turned
out Georgia avenue and on 'that thor-mi(t.f.f-.
tff,l Meh ned. tore, along
toward .the District line. I
Realizing then that he hatlf.no mere
w..4.. t. ri..l with. thA nnlloeman de
manded that the driver halt, HU
summons going unhoeded, Warren
K..tli.il 1Ih ..unlua, rfnri n.ri
fJUIIlt "" .WTV. . .. ... ww.. .
Tne nuiiCL, wnisuing uuuvo me -..,
did not serve to lessen the speed of the
fugitive, and with both machines going
at their utmost, the chsJUJ continued.
Tf.lf Klln.ri h.. tfn. lN4tr tt THUd
and dirt he waa taking1 from the car.
and narrowly escaping Doina -poco-..
.-. n.w.ri fntn th. riltch aAVr&1
times when he tried to overhaul his
quarry, the policeman continued shoot
ing. One of the bullets struck the hear
of tho car. . . . .
At last when ln the neighborhood of
Burn Mills, Md Warren managed. to
SI1D in oesiae ine car, nnu ni un;
point of his pistol, bring tbe driver to
(Continued on Eighth Page.)
Walkout of 24,000
Miners Is Ordered
Pittsburgh Coal Company's Men
Will Strike Tomorrow to
Get Increase.
PITTSBURGH, April a.-Twenty-four
thousand men employed In the seventy
mines of the Pittsburgh Coal Company
will strike tomorrow under orders is
sued by President Van Blttner and the
executive board ot district No. 6, Unit
ed Mine Workers of America. The
strike order came unexpectedly.
In an effort to apply to this district
the Interstate settlement reached In
New York, providing for a number
of reforms and granting a 5 per cent
wage increase, representatives of the
Pittsburgh Coal Operators' Associa
tion and the Pittsburgh district mine
workers have been ln conference here
for several days. The operators are
headed by W. K. Field, president of
the Pittsburgh Coal Company, and the
miners by District President Van
Blttner.
Some of the operators acceded to
the terms of the New York agreement,
It was announced. The fact that the
Pittsburgh Coal Company would not
grant the wage increase, said the
miners' representatives, was, on the
other hand, made evident yesterday,
which was the pay day at the mines.
The 5 per cent Increase for yardage,
day work, and dead work was not
paid. Thereupon the order to strike
followed.
Heaps of Gold for
Sunday Offering
BALTIMORE, April 23 -Gold and sil
ver coin, bank notes and checks, heaped
high on the big tin ile dishes used as
collection plates at the Tnbernacles tes
tified ln part this morning to Balti
more's love for the Rev Billy Sunday,
who Is concluding his elcht-week evan
gelistic campaign
The collection f the free-will offer
ing nt the first torvlre of the day net
ted two bushels of chcoks, gold certifi
cates and greenbacks and a heaping
half-bushel of gold and silver coin...
An cxiierlenced bank official, who saw
tho big plies of notes and cotln. rofusod
to harat-d a guess iib to tho amount rep
resented, tut It Is known that the ush
ers and donrkccpoM In a body gave
J3.00C. it Is a'so known that several
checks for 11.000 cuch were received
from' lndtldoals.
Tho tetond collection at Jhe 1:30
o'clock sen Ice for mon resulted In an
other big pile of cjln and 'lotce, and
then will be two more collections at
the 3:30 and 7 o'clock services.
Tho totlnl amount of the free-will of
fering will bo made public tomorrow.
Tho only person connecti-d with the
Sunday campaign who would make a
guess as to tho amount was a member
of tho executive commlttt e, who said:
"It will not be less than 1)6,000, and
it may be double that amouat."
American Army Leaders
Who Are in Conference
. i I. ii ..
BUI
IHB stasslasBBBBH
SBBBBBBBBBBBBBBsHtk-V " '?BBIHH
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbiWbsTsW. "V tHSsssl
BBSBSBSBSBSBSBSBSBSBSBBSgTfhw BBhIbSBBBSB
- ffivi JssHsKH
I BUjKi flsawBHsfii I
-SLO'-fjB'i-JIH
Copyright, by Cllnrilliuit.
Above Maj. Gen. HUGH L. SCOTT,
Chief of Staff.
Below Maj. Gen. FREDERICK
FUNSTON, commanding the
Southern department.
At 2:30 this morning newspaper men were told that there
would be no announcement until 10 o'clock today.
.The Secretary reached his office again this morning
about 9:30 and went immediately to the White House.
He took with him joint report by Generals Scott and
Fimston recommending.continuance of the campaign. This
recommendation was approved by the President.
Afte.r his return to the War Department, Secretary
Baker issued the following statement:
"General Funston recommends a redisposition of the
forces in Mexico for the purpose of recuperation and pend
ing opportunity for further co-operation with the force of
the de facto government of Mexico. His recommendation
has been approved and its execution left to his discretion.'
Secretary Baker refused to go further than this in dis
cussion of the recommendations of General Funston.
It was said on highest authority today, however, thnt
Maj. Gen. Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff, who went to San
Antonio to -onfer with General Funston, has not in any of
his telegrams to the War Department favored withdrawal
of troops.
Moreover it was authoritatively stated that the Admin
istration has no present intention of abandoning its cam
paign against Villa by ordering withdrawal of the American
forces.
A news dispatch from El Paso says that to avoid t.ie
danger of clashes with t::c American troops, General Her
rea and other Carranza en umanders are withdrawing their
troops front the Parral and Guererro districts and taking
them in the direction of Chihuahua City General Herrera
stated he wonted to give General Pershing a free hand in
the district where he was located, reports from the American
column said.
The statement made by Secretary Baker is interpreted
as meaning that further progress south into Mexico of the
American forces will be delayed while the State Department
resumes its diplomatic negotiations with Carranza for co
operation in the pursuit of Villa.
l ne further statement that
uenerai i-unston's recommendations for the "redisposition
of the forces" isinterpreted to mean that General Funston
Diirooses to shortdnhis 1 ne of communication
his'base from Columbus to Presidio, Tex., or some point
nearer the army base in the Santa Clara valley.
General Funston previously has recommended short
ening the line of communication by entering Mexico from
PBICB ONE CENT.
BAKER BACKS
T
Announces Both Generals Urged
That U. S. Refuse to Aban
don Villa Chase.
CAMPAIGN PLANS CHANGED
Army Leaders Urge That Base
o fCcmmunioation on Border
Be Shifted.
American troops will re
main in Mexico.
The Villa hunt will not be
abandoned, at present at
least, by the withdrawal of
troops.
This flat declaration was
made this morning by Secre
tary ef War Baker after a
brief conference with Presi-,
dent Wilson.
For the, time being the.
course of tne Administration
is clearly outlined.
The official announcement
this morning followed a stir
ring series of conferences.
From the time last night
when a long code message
began to arrive from General
5cott, an air of tense expec
tancy pervaded official circles.
Nearly all night Secretary
Baker remained at his office.
the President has approved
hv rhnnp-ino
FUNSTON
AND
0
REPORTS
i
i
k
