WEATHER
MARKETS
lf W YORK CITV
Average piyce of cop
per for week ending
April 22, 28.12.
ARIZONA Cjnrraly
fair.
r
VNOZIHV XIN30Hd
Associated Press Special Leas sd Wire Service.
VOL. 18, NO. 233.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, APRIL 23, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
y
I
1
:
X
PROV S ON IS
MADE ABROAD
FOR SAFETY
OF 0. S.
Numerous Dispatches Have
Been Received From Berlin
No Informative News, How
ever, Is Released
ANSWER IS EXPECTED
BY NEXT WEDNESDAY
German Papers Comment On
American Note. One De
clares Germany Cant Drop
Submarine War For U. S.
(By Review Leasee; Wire) i
WASHINGTON. April 22. The I'n
ited States government has made ten
tative plans to cope with every con- j
ceivable situation w!iich would rise
from tiie severance of diplomatic re- j
lalions with Germany. For reasons !
they indicated were obvious, officials j
tonight deemed it unwise to discuss J
the details.
There is reason for believing, how-,iMj
ever, that some of the plans have to
do with the safety of American ' cit"
zens In the German empire and the
S 0tatr. he,fif? f.thr ""l i"'h!i.
countries at war with Germany. " 'u'" r"L,u " !
Numerous dispatches on these sub-!"f. ".an one hundred. Indent
jects are understood to have been ! '-"on was unopposed for the Demo
sent to diplomatic representatives a-;erat!C nomination.
broad, particularly to Ambassador ! Keith Neville has beaten W.J. Simp
Gerard at Berlin. The dispatches are; son for Democratic governor, and Sen
regarded as being highly confidential .ator Hitchcock; was renominated Sor
and for that reason information con-i Senator on the Democratic ticket and
cerning them is unavailable here. Wm. J. Bryan has been beaten for
Among dispatches received from (delegate at large to the Democratic
Ambessador Gerard within the past i national convention.
two days was one describing the man- j
ner in which the American note, de-j -aoc uiruinu
daring the purpose of the United A,DS, MI.CH.'.GAN-
States to break relations unless Ger-j LANFING.Mich., April 2-'.-Henry
many modified her submarine meth- j
ods, was received bv German officials n ore Michigan voters for the republi
While this, too, was held as confiden-jean preferential nomination for pres
tial. it is understood the ambassador ident that was United States Senator
repressed Berlin officials as being William A.; Smith of Grand Rapids
greatly surprised at the demands of 'at the recent state wide primary. Offi
the Washington government. Mr. rial primary figures were made public
Gerard is said to have gathered at; here tonight by the slate canvassing
least an impression tnat tne ioreign ;
office had no idea that the communi
cation would be as drastic and final as
it was.
The general feeling Jiere tonight.
a nno rAnt ! .vna nnt all nntlmiufir ro-
fljl.lll. Ill , . . . - L ... ............... - - -
orHina- tha niilMimo In tha alittpnce
of further information from Ambassa-1
dor Gerard, the day's dispatches were j
read closely. !
Indications in them that there may ,
be delays or requests for additional
information- were regarded by officials
as significant. It is well understood,
however, that the United States, un
der no consideration, will permit de
lay and discussion unless it is preced
ed by a declaration from Germany
that she has so modified her submar
ine warfare as to bring it within t.'ie
scope of international law.
Dispatches of an important nature,
hourly are expected from Mr. Gerard.
It is eipected that before Monday, or
certainly soon thereafter, the ambas
sador will be in a position to forecast
with some degree of accuracy what
will be the views of the German gov
ernment. Officials are confident that before
this time next week, the issue will
have been settled: that the United
States will feel certain the safety of
innocent non-combatants on the high
seas Is assured, or steps for a diplo
matic break will have been taken.
Among the foreign diplomats here,
the question of a break between the
United States and Germany is a topic
of wide interest. The concensus of j
opinion seems to be that diplomatic j
and the allies of Germany need not I
relations oeiween me 1 imeu ,
necessarily be affected. In regard to I
Austria, however, much is considered'
to depend on the answer made by the
Vienna government to the American
inquiry regarding the attack unon the
Russian bark Imperator, carrying two'
American citizens, one of whom wasj The impression of tile note upon
injured by shrapnel fire. Ambassador j the readers was a mixed one. Many
l'pnnfield was directed to make the.fac.es wc-p e-ave as the readers per-
inquiry earlv this week. No reply had
been received today, and lie mar soon (
be instructed to renew the inquiry.
It is considered quite probable that'
Austria will be called to account
should it develop that her submarines
have not been acting with proper re
gard for the rights of non-combatants,
the Fnited States being determined
that illeeal submarine warfare where
ver and by whomever conducted, must
cease.
An appointment was arranged for
Senator Stone, chairman of the Senate
foreign relations committee, to gee
th. President Mondar nirht to discuss 1
some chases of the foreign relations. I tempting to meet the American de
(Continued on Page Four) mands but most of the writers evident
Scoff Concludes Object
CHOCTAW
,.; :
SHI? l.'VVIni?T Iji Anril 99
A federal jury today convict
ed Alexander It. Powell, who
claims to be a Choctaw chief,
of using the mails to defraud
in connection wit-h a movement
he initiated to have the Choc
taw rolls reopened and the
tribal funds redistributed. Sen
tence was deferred.
Powell is said to have operat
ed extensively in Lousiana,
Mississippi and Texas and to
have amassed a small fortune
from his operations. His vic
tims were promised a share of
the tribal funds if they would
pay him a small enrollment fee
and they responded liberally.
i
:i
i
i
!
;
i
:l
i
Ford Leads Senator Cum
mins of Iowa For Republi
can Nomination For Presi
dent In Nebraska and Mich.
OMAHA. Neb.. April 22. Henry
Ford of Detroit has again taken the
from Senator A. B. Cummins of
,owa in ,j,e raee for tne Republican
frtomlnat ion at the Nebraska primaries,
j srcordlne to roniplete returns from
r ora ueirou was uie cnoice oi o.oo
boanj.
The total Reepublican vole for presi
dent: Ford S3.8S8, Smith 77,S77. Wui; J.
Simpson .Detroit, 14,365: Theodore
j
KOSeveiT,
1,074; Justice Chas. E.
Hughes. .103. President Wilson, who
was not officially opposed got 84.S73
votes. William Jennings Bryan led a
scattering field of candidates whose
names were written in the ballots. He
was given 124 votes. Henry Ford re
ceived 55 and Theodore Roosevelt got
25B.
FORD AGAIN.
NEW YORK. April 22.- Henry Ford
announced here that if the discovery
(Continued on Page Five.)
GERMAN PUBLIC
(By Review Leasee Wire.)
BERLIN, April 22. The American
note occupies the first pages of the
afternoon papers and forced even the
Daily War Report to the inside col
umns. The impatience wit.'i which
the public waited the publication of
the note was illustrated by the street
scenes when the afternoon ad it ions
prised of the impending publication 1
upprareu. 1 ne people uau ueeu up
by a paper appearing at noon. Crowds
surrounded the first boys on the Lnter
den Linden. LeipRig. Freiderich and
other principal streets of the business
I quarter, fairly snatching the news-
papers from them.
usee" tlje long columns of the note. 1
i ne -ent also was grave,
ThfN-fll German Gazette, from
which TfT: authoritative reflection of
the government's views can alone be
expocteV, did not comment on the
note. Other papers commenting in
varying Vones and sentiment towards
the T'nltfd States, but generally with-
iMit riitttinrA ahnalvA I'lnenn cm
The newspapers apparently are taking i
the note tn a manner worthy or tier
many. Some of t.'ie newspapers in
cluding the Tageblatt. the Bourne Ga
zette and even the Tagea Zeitung con-
sider the possibility of Germany's at
FORD LEADING III
NEBRASKA
PRIMARY
- 4
nniyiMF t MN akan nhtf
UUIIIIIIL.II I Ull IIIIIL.IIIUIIII IIUIL
nri'iTr nrwmnniiTP nrnrnr rnnM
mmt uc uun a
i
REPEAL FREE
l!PB0FE3SI0NnL$5JiM
TRAIN ROBBER
CAUGHT NEAR
RAWS
Lone Bandit Apprehended By
Posse. Declares He Liked
TKa Smrt f HftMma I In
Trains." Strategy Got Him
fBv Review Leasee" Wire.)
RAWLYNS. Wyo.. April 22 Wil
liam L. Carlisle, professional Irain
robber, is in jail here tonight. Car-1
lisle, who says that is not his real)
name, was captured late today in the!
desert country 20 miles north of Wol-j
,eott, by a posse led by William .
Waynes, city marshal), of Wolcott,;
Wyo. He surrendered without a fight..
The bandit, who declared that he;
"liked the sport of holding u pi rains
and that he wanted to get the best
of the police and the railroads" boast-
ed that he robbed Union Pacific Over- j
and Limited near Rock Springs. Wyo.
February" 9 'and another train on the ;
same road noifr Corleit Junettion. on
April 14, in addition to the robbery
of Union Pacific lirited number 21,
near Hanna Wyo., last night. ,
"Yes. I'm the man" said the robber. .
confessing his guilt. "I robbed all I
three trains. I go under the name of .
Carlisle, but no one will know any
thing of me prior to my train robbery.
I held up the train last night because!
the sheriff and trainmen were making!
threats as to what was going to hap-:
pen to me. I got off at the wrong place '
and got lost." !
"1 always worked alone," continued duty of one cent a pound for' lour
Carlisle, who was eager to talk. "I years and which the House refused
could have killed two or three of ihe t0 arree to '.p. conl?r-nce. . -posse
before I was captured, bin ij Democratic senators cast all of the
would not kill any one. I like the : 10 votes' against supporting the House
sport of holding un the train but would i measure, which provides lor a flat re
have killed no one. peal, thus extending the present duty
"I. got $311 and a gold watch. I 'indefinitely. Tlu-y were Senators
could have gotten more. j Gore, riardwick. Hughos. Hustiug.
"A strategic move ty one of the ;,ohs" ' Sfl,h Ifta. 1-ane. Mar
posse proved the undoing of the ban-. nn',t" of t",rs a- 1Uo,"as a,,1
dit After the trail was taken up "The repeal sought by the admin
early today from Kdson. the posse led , istralion k revenues. : now
UJ iliri III Ifcfvvri. 111 i-m till. mill 1
City Marshal Hayes, started for Wot-1
cott. There they secured an auto-.
mobile and instinctively hit for the
Old Ferris ranch. 20 miles north. Af
ter a couple of hours search .the ban
dit was seen by one of the pose.
hiding behind a large sage brush. In
stead of opening fire the posse moved
away, pretending not to have noticed
(Continued on Page 5) !
ACCEPTS NEWS
!
ly consider this difficult.
The Tages Zeitung comments on
the note in a tone of expectancy, de-
daring that the present document Is I
a consistent sequence to tne suninar-
ine note of February. 1915. The Am
erican government, it says, regarded
a German victory as against American
interests, her.ee it was something to
combat opposition to the submarine
conflict, both In Washington and Ixm-
don is based on the realization t.'iat a
relentlessly conducted campaign of
the most dangerous and successful
weapon? against Great Britain. Count
von Reventlow who writes the article,
considers that a practicably conduct
ed submarine campaign is worth far
more than a maintenance of relations
i
. I... ,liI llnu Kulu-uiali 'i.rnn .1 - . 1 . . 1. -., ...v.i iMHUH lieeiMllll 1.1 IKlMni !., n nu ro 111 Wllien Ilie UilMllllS IIUi.Nl Mi- ir
on the previous lins between Genua- cently incorporated into the $;0.U00.-1 . .,,, ji 1,1. ,...,-
ny and America, and that this weapon
far nut ciphu the (lisill vantaL'CS that
ri.nl.l arise frcni a Gerninn-Ameriean
conflict. j
The Centrist organ. Germania. says: j
It Is understood that the situation!
created by the note is grave, but it is
not desperate. We are confident that t
the government will find a proper an-
swer tiereto ana tne governmen. n-
sen is anporennv as sure "i 11 i'
i. - .u-
proven n ine . ..m....-
Diintisnen immeaiaieiy. i
The Kreus Zeitung considers the!
note in contents and manner, proof of
new testimony of a one-sided and par
tisan handling of the submarine ques
tion on "which we have continually
of His Trip to San Antonio and Returns East
d ntucucrnu
SUGAR ITEM OF UNDFRW00D TARIFF;!
American
Revenues
I
j Measure Now Needs The Pres
ident's Signature, Only, To
! Become Law And Save Su-
gar From Free List May 1.
HOUSE BILL PASSED
AFTER ARGUMENT
-, ... nr-.i r
.' Repubhcans Vote With Dem
ocrats To Repeal Present
Statute And Congratulate
Opposition
(Sy Review Leased Wire)
DAY IN CCKCi'flcSS.
SENATL:
S.s.al monopoly ir.quiry. con
tituuii. Five 'sugar repeal debated with
agreement to vole before adjourn
ment. HOl'SE:
Consideration of agricultural ap
propriation bill continued.
SENATE:
Voted' to reduce from amend
ments to House 're? suear re
peal bili and approved the bill as
it passed the House. , ;
Adjourned at u.(;S p. :n. to noon
Monday.
HOi'SL:
Adjourned at 5:00 p. in. to 11 a.
m. Monday.
WASHINGTON. April 22 Late to
day the Senate appro. id the House
bill r.'pei.liug the tree sugar section
of the tai ifl lav, under which s:g?r
would have gone on. the free list
May 1.
By a vole or 59 to 10 the Senate j
receded from an amendment which it.
: had liaised exte:i(l"iig the existing
needs only the President's signature
to become effective. The one cent
duty yields about $5i).000,ii(0 annually.
Senate Democrats, finding the House
; unyielding in its stand for a Hat re
, peal decided at a caucus to yield and
, avert any possibility of stiar going
1 on the free list even for a liinileu
1 period.
j The Senate debated he motion to
recede all day. Senator I lard wick
! declared his democratic enllegues
'were forsaking their promise lor Ireej
1 sugar, without justification and Sen-j
I ator Thomas, another l)eniocrat, said!
; the proposal meant granting a premi-
um on the watered -stock of American
suga reoninames.
Senator Kenyon, Republican, quoted
free sugar speeches of Democratic
1 senators in 1913. said he welcomed
jthe Democrats into the protective tar-
iff fold.
MORE TROUBLE AT PARRAL.
pc-O prji message
b; rw.vt.d in Jua oni t ovor
the Mevicm linn. sIMim? !h:.l there..
was trouble at Parral. No details
U'ura vii hi 1 1 u a it -a hpun itrtvl-'
lo. slv n ..need 7 i t (eieral I-ersh-i
!ousl annouiHcd that General 1 ersti-
ine has with.lrnwn hi iroons as far
" I IOI1IO IIIHl ..lajor ti-neini l-iiuii, bi-iii
mirth u .itL-,i if i Tiruwiiiii.'il ih:iti. .... .- . . t
. . .. - -- ' i
American soldiers are not invelved.
MAMMOTH OIL DEAL.
TI'LSA, Okla., April 22 The Sin
clair )il Refining company today pur
chased the Heaver Oil ami Gas Com
pany for $7.ri0.0ini. It would be oper-
uuo company.
Ollll ....i.i.mnv
imtn niMi ion uriunu iiiiinnii m
accented from the American eovern-
meut since the beginning of the sub-
marine question." 1
The newspaper declares that It is!
its opinion that there is no doubt that
Germany's attitude toward t.'ie note
shows Washington wants more than
a n,enieni oi tiie Sussex case.
r.mn rauffMuu. n da.
K.....-I. .....
,.u ... a..
iiiuii. 11 n-i i in. iivi win lu.i.u i
general demands of America, it can
v be hope " 'ha, " the pret devee !
nents will give Germany a really
on I
opmen
unlimited freedom
submarine war."
mnn pt
ti n ii n
nun d anu ai
iCarranza Authorities at Juar
ez View With Misgivings !
Departure of Additional '
Troops From Columbus
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EL PASO. Texas. April 22. The
'to from Columbus today caused a
fleeting approaching dismay among
Mexican officials In Juarez, who were
previously convinced that General
Pershing's expedition was on the
point of withdrawing. General Ga
viia. the Juarez, commander, was
frank in his expressions of concern.
causes me some anxiety as I fear
will have an unfavorable effect on the!
Mexican people who will not be able to
lir.(leistrnd it anv Ki.llur ih,n I
iOMLlERS!!
PASS BORDER j
i me mrn '
LMIL 111 I U i
ftlEXiCQ
i no ii (H unnrrsiaiiii wnv mifiinnn:ii ' nu.i k.v- .lvi,u. i .mjrv tiu.1-1 11 .?
j troops rrebHng vent in." he said, "i' MeiU.0 havo bt.,,u Cilrvyed a : Wa.-hinuum. lie will make to fa-
jUBcerstood that rj.e American govern-) wuiuvxt here 'relary Personal repor. on whH
!n.ent was -seriony considering Hie u0, l"tr,s 11 Vwis l"ut,1 ft is b4,fiHved bv hisll cH.t,r- ,.1.
I withdrawal of iu forces and this i l"- , " ii I t
Aineiican army officers here. while'"ov" a"u -" u,'r' "P'-"'
nuiiiiinii til nijr u:?irris Ilfrr, Wllllf
rcfu.-ing to express a definite opinion'"' l'' tumo"-' c.-uamuumg ti.e r.r
on the troop movement, pointed mi.'Ae, siuauruii. aim ins tnme ton
that it did not necessarily mean that:""1"" 'e "ox " lu'lr wa
the idea of recalling the Pershing ex- i lro1" l"e la l"oU" l"r's lo "'can forceK but pr. j aiatio i for attacs
pedition had been abandoned. One!'18'' t"'iulp "d prepare planer lor i!1(i1(atml .) (t.rai ,
officer offered this as a possible eX-;he'wtl' "' ,tl,ut,'s -Uev j gain d at first huid .n idea of the de-
planation: :ico.. j tensive aititude the punitive cpvdi-
"We all realize' that if the Ameri-1 --'-erican troops in 1 he field are uti- ltIon ha a.siiine.l.
can troops began to withdraw ii may ; ''Zli'" l"elr uul'n ,ia" 111 General Fnnsiun and his staff placed
excite the various bands of Villislas u'"'ri"io"8, s"elSiue.iing t'.ieir po- befo e the chief of sta:T .-very cc.umu
who are still roaming about North- ; ,,,uo"si ueiacniuenit. it-:iig coiieeutivtt- ' niehlion received a.'id in U'I!ii;ni that
cm Mexico, and who will undoubtedly ! ,u il1 s"i,l"!"t' points. . 1 he line ot ; record prjk ide.i him v illi such other
conclude lhat the Americans are eaT. j couiiiiumcaiiua, exieiianig Ibialy ai- 'eidi-nce verb:l and inritlen tiia: b-.ire
ing because thev hnve hwn furataf j li.osi live nunuieU miles soum of tne on the ias. As to the eoiielusiun
This may easily " iiu ile them to at -
tack our lines of communication that'11"1 uei,I'uh "( auuuional torves from
is very poorly protected. The addi
tional troops sen! in may be merely
intended as a guard for our com
munications in the event of withdraw'
al." There is little ouesion' thai our offi
cers here generally belive that with-, sian have ci-ablished headquarter
(ii.-i-.val is probable. Some of them at Naniiquipa, that he may be in close
have privately expressed the opln-' communication wi'h General Hugh' L.
ion that General Pershing has already : Scott and Frederick Funston In sai
taken the preliminary steps in the Antonio. Messages from some of the
concentration of this troops at three advanced expeditionary columns suit
or four points, a movement which will J io General Pershing today over the
enable him to evacuate the more dan- i Mexican telegraph lines to Juarez be
grous points of occupation with a 'ing relayed from Ihere to Columbus,
minimum delay nfier he receives hisjand ftom here to Naniiquipa by army
ii HM.iiiKion.
ICeileWf! nnvmtv u- a 1, . .1
.......... ., umi.iv
Continued on Page Six.)
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. April 22. A decis-';
I lull H.s u w 1 1 -1 1 1 -1 lilt- uifif miii i'i ,
...... k .ok!
jeJ bv thl president and his Cabinet
m. i rt . ! .11 .1 : 1. .
' . X' 1 . lu.c.ru .u,us,
wh(n jt was reported from San An-
... .u... ..... ,- o..
rv stH-riTiirv liiiKer in invesuizaie tiie
military problems confronting General
Funston and his men. might lie back in
Washington in time for his report to
nrpipinu
ULUIUIUIl
1
be laid before the regular meeting plans never has been revealed, but it
of the cabinet today. j ir. generally understood lhat they con-
Scerelary Itrtker declined lo dis-1 template.! a virtual military occupa
cuss the probable meaning of General 'lion of all that part of northern Mexi-
.. ..... . . : ... I. ....... .... a - . I
r"1""'. . .
' General Funston and his officers .
at departmental peailquarters. timciais ;
have consistently refusea to say any- .
thing whatever about the problems
under consideration since tne rniiiw. J
-of the Mexican defacto government for
,he withdrawal of the American so: ,
diers.
It is known, howvver. from bordere.
; --.
dvi( .eSi ,(,, General Funston feels
that he cannot go farther with, th
P"" " u-s .heady
Kue unless be is heavily reiuforced. j
Of action in thetI'n,l ula I'eu m whuw CA.nii .
leHt ill desling with problems of sup-1
JOINS IN PERFORMANCE
WASHINGTON, April 22.
President Wilson joined in a
patriotic de mon-tr&;an on the
submarine issue during a vau
deville program at a :iieatre
' here tonight. Soon after the
President entered his box, the
moving pictures y.how.-ug him
going to the Capitol to deliver
his submarine message to Con
gress were thrown on the
screen. The entire audience
stood and cheered while the or
chestra played the Star Spau
gled Banner. The President
bowed his acknowledgement.
Later he joined in applauding
pictures showing the American
troops in Mexico.
yy9
SIX AEROPLANES
SCRAPPED AS
i o; ff TK
Eight
Military
Chihua-
Tractors Used In
hua Have Either Been Burn
ed or Thrown in Trash Pile
(By Review Leased Wire.)
COLUMBl'S, N. M.. April 22. Six
the eight aeroplanes wliic'u have
""" Ule "ela
H ul '-" "'"'-" '"e " '"
. iu.nr.-. iciikuuiu mi .nrAiiu vnuiu
"'
! ,"'ru,'r- a'-' " oemg sueiigiheneU uy
Culun.bus, a tletacu.'neiu ol negro in-
lauiry going tor ward today.
General reisniugs araiy continued
inactive liHlay anu quiel was report ;
cd all along the America:! line. The
expeditionaiy com. 1. under Willi hi.-.
wireless, thus traveling almost in a
! . . . ... i: .1.
:cin ie. i ne coiiieius ui uiese uisihicii-
es were not revealed here.
?of
UPON WITHDRAWAL OF
REACHED
plies and information beyond the bor-
der. General fccott decision to re
mill ni win- .i',,,J umril iu
...... .... u ...
conclusion and would so report lo
. . .
hecreiary t.aser
In this connection, it is recalled that
!.. ..
i reslllclll n U"ll SP.-. lncn. icjr-i 'ttti
. .....
.ti;mi rnr n mure eviinsive movement
in pursuit of Villa n.apped out by
the general slaff inri ediniely after the
Columbus raid. The scope of theso
. .. . - . .i. . . I:. . i.
.ui..-.
A um nrui. "mini nn.- urru ir-
quired and the whole territory would
have been swept thoroughly so ttialt,e de facto overnnient troops. In
po il la follower could possibly have
escaped.
VISALIA. Calif.. Aprii 22 ('has.
riossom. for 30 years chief forester
in the Sierm nntlonal forest and Ken-
rth Menefee,
tk Manofna un.k.l 1. n ... Inal.mllv
"- ..... -
kiied today when an automohil driv
en ty Blossom overturned Mrs.
Wossom. her months old bady.
Mrs. t- L. Menefec. mother of tlie
n-;ui uoy. auu .lir. n ..ihiii imiiiu-
er, were badly injured.
1 CONFERENCE
I
RESULTS Ifl
COMPLETE
!
Chief of Staff And Major Gen.
Funston Constantly Togeth
er Going Over Reports Of
Every Angle Of Problem
FORMER RETURNS TO
MAKE HIS REPORT
Troubles of Punitive Expedi
tion Are Placed Before
Scott and Complete Under
standing is Between Them
(By Review Leassd Wirs ;
SAN ANTONIO, Tex.. April 22.
Major General Hugh L. Sott hail prac
tically concluded. Lite todav. tLe hii
j sion on which he was sent here ly
th? secretary of war. It was caid he
w hi iiici 1 tir- .111t1 it an i:i,ir
1 remaiii in Mexico or to come out.
Since his airi'-al lure last uivht
Ci-iHTdl Scott ha-; becu i'.h Gercial
F;::!.-ton almost constantly. Tee:ler
tl:c; lijv, teaj such reports as came
( iiuiji un- ni iiai:UHt .UI I.'iiril
'tlcneial I'ershiiu. None nf these in-
ho . . I... K.. I
di. aled fresh activity bv the Ameri-
General Scott had reached and rhe
nature of report lie Rouhl make, he
was non-con: initai. lie was ini:. ir
I it had been decided to wishdr.iw the
troopj and reined. "We luve :mt
reaeiied a d" ci.-.ion." He nodded Uia
head toward General Funston when
he said "we". Gt-neral Funsion
placed before the thief of stall all Ihe
reports Iroui Genera! Prshipg al
ready sent 10 Va:'hingin:i in which
General Pershing is known t have
app.'ali-d for more troops and for
radical changes in operations. These
and other reports set forth with sp
ci.'ic clearness the eR.baria.-.-n nt
hi" h the troup- have met from Csr
ran.a minor orticia'.: and fro;n Crran
zu troops and the r.nmisiakable lack
i General Scott was also glen
op-
i portunity to learn just how the ex
. pedition was forced into a defensie
'position instead of uniinuiiw the
pursuit of Villa, who now appear t
j have escaped into the distant e beyond
'the furthered advance detachment of
; General Pershing's command. There
as at hand the evidence that the
; mayor of Parrnl had served on Col.
, W. C. Prown. at Santa Cnu. an ulti-
matuui after the tight at Panal that
he must not advance another soldier
t southward.
i Reviewing the transportation prob
lem. reports from General Pershing
, , ....
"fparen. i ne .mi.ii...
of maintainini; a 4i' mile winding
line of communication guarded bv
' 'housands of troops hen a mn. h
' . r. lievin-
'Hotter route roiini ne n- .1 rtimm-
, a,.iiv
tor more H(in
lut nt the front a
:rent part of the pnnitive fi.rees.
It "a resarded h'-re a possible
hat General Funston would concur
in a rennT stafiu:; the tapture of
Villa with present ori:ini7atMn op'r
tins plnns the same lines was im
probable.
In view of the protest ty Carranr.
and the evident antagonism encoiint
ered it lso bas become evident th-l
increased activity probably would
meet with forma! armed opposition hv
the,,, conclusions annv men here tak
it for ennted t!" chief of staff will
concii'. th'm n.akine it "ecearv for
th" nilminitrat ion to decide at an
rarlv date th nature of future oper
at'ons in Mico.
Th'-r,- :.-itab!c for ilene-til
Scott's roni.lcr:tf ir nti-h Inform-"
tion relati.e to te movements n'
Mexican troon in Northern Mexico.
unH rnort ofhrla! and unofficial, of
at-th ill of men and cronns of men.
(Continued on Te Four)
H
