I
i
i
UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, SUNDAY, APRIL 23, 1916
EIGHT PAGES.
NUMBER 202
VTS
ft
;
j
tr-oram 17m g vinirc
1 ILIinLILLU u inuuui
M.U. IHIRDINRELAY
Wisconsin Is First, Chicago
Second in Record- '
Breaking Event. I
K. U. DOESN'T PLACE
f river mm generally in must m
6,000 at Drake Games Sc&tUiVJtlgyktft! tf
r- r .. T t 1 ln"s 1'rI(1:1-v monilnR.
Tigers Heat Jayhawkers ; in r.,1,,,,,1,1., ,.tiy fair
St. Louis Time.
Ity Speilal Correspondence,
DES MOIXES, la., April 2:;. Be
fore C.000 spectators the Missouri
Tigers placed third in the mile relay
today at the seventh annual Drake He
lay Games, Wisconsin taking lirst
and Chicago second. Missouri was
penalized three yards at the start for
cutting in toward the pole within the
lirst fifty yards, but even then ran the
mile in ::.2t, live seconds faster than
Kansas' time at the M. A. A. meet in
St. l.ouis. where the Tigers were de
feated. Wisconsin's time was 3:22
2-3, a new record for the Drake
games. Kansas entered a team in the
relay, but failed to place.
Uaggy, who is rapidly developing
into the best quarter-miler Missouri
has had for some time, made the best
time of the Tiger quartet. Running
the third quarter, he negotiated the
distance in 30 2-5 seconds. Xiedorp
ran the lirst quarter in .11 1-.., Wyatt
the second in 31 Hat and I'ittam the j
fourth in 51 2-3.
Practically all the leading colleges
of the Middle West were entered in I
the meet and many Iowa high schools. I
Though the temperature was a little i
below the ideal for a track meet, I
nian'j records were broken. Hoyt of j
Grinnell set a new world's record for '
the . circular track in the 220-
yard dash, making it in 21
2-3 seconds. It was a special race be-
tween Hoyt. iiormaa of Illinois and
Shearer of Drake.
Wisconsin was the star of the
meet. The Badgers won the half-mile,
mile and four-mile relay races, setting
a world's record in the half-mile and
new records for the Drake games in
the other two events,
was made in 1:2S 4-3.
The half-mile
Thp old record
,......-. i .i, fn,.r.mii ovnf
the Wisconsin team ran the distance
in 18:03 2-3, breaking the record set
by the same school a year ago.
In the high school division the Web-
ster City (la.) team took seven sec
onds off the high school medley relay
record, and the Des Moines High
School team shattered the half-mile
record.
H. F. Schulte said after the meet
that he favors sending the relay team
to the Pennsylvania meet April 29.
TIGERS MIX THIRD STRAIGHT
Oklahoma A. & 31. Victim This Time,
Si-ore ' to !
Iiy Sped.il Correspondence.
STILLWATER, Okla., April 22.
k The Tigers won their third straight
game in Oklahoma yesteruay. nusjiast lew years, ieu neiier yesieruay
time it was not from the Sooners, but morning and walked around the house.
from their sister school, the A. &; M.
College at Stillwater. The score was
6 to 3
The offensive playing of the Tigers
was the best seen on tlie local diamond j
this season. Giltner struck out six- j
teen mui. Captain Woody, Owens and
Siusher played in the outfield. Bum-
garner was behind the bat. Siusher i
and Owens starred.
The score by innings:
Missouri 012110100
Oklahoma 100000200
Hook by F. C. Shoemaker U Out.
"Missouri's Struggle for Statehood,"
a new book by Floyd C. Shoemaker
of Columbia, secretary of the State
Histnrleni Cnrlntv n-ns received from
the publishers v'esterdav. The work 'by the Xational Republican Committee
traces the historv of Missouri from 'as temporary chairman of the Xation
the time it was recognized as a ter- al Republican Convention, to be held
ritorv until it was admitted into the I in Chicago. He will make the open
loion in 1S21. The book was publish- ; ing. or "keynote." address.
i by the Hugh Stephens Publish-'
Ing Company of Jeffierson City. Pentivjhania Crew Defeats Yale.
! . ' lly I'nlteii Pre.
Percy Klas Purchase Wool. PHIIADELPHIA, April 22. Penn-
Percy Klass has returned from Es- sylvania varsity crew defeated
Wl, Mo., where he purchased 1,000 ,yalc by a length in the annual boat
Pounds of wool. This is the first local race on the Schuylkill course this af-
Mrchase of wool this season. Thejternoon. Yale's junior crew defeated
shipment will arrive here within a few
cays.
C 0. Eliineer to Excelsior Sprint.
m C. n fMnrrn.. inft T-Pstprdnv after-
w. ...... r,w ,v-v j
.& noon for Excelsior Springs, Mo., where
"e wii visit his wife, who nas oeeu
ttere the last two weeks for her
halth. .Mr. Ehinger will return soon.
THE WEATHER
(I!i'Hirt issued Saturday morning.)
For (Vliiiiil.ia: I'artly clouily Sunday ;
imt niiirli change in temperature.
I'jir Missouri: I'artly elmnlv Similar,
prol.al.ly lK-eoming unsettled west iortluh.
Weather nlitlm.
Hie weather Saturday morning Is
Hear in the lower partn of the Missouri
ami Ohio valleys and theme south to the
.ulf of .Mexico, but in the remainder of
the country It Is more or less unsettled.
Kains liare eoiitinued In the Lake re
gion ami on eastward to the Atlantic
oast. Local showers aNo Inne occurred
In the southern state, on the North Pa
nne and there was lijrlit snow in Mon
tana, Wyoming and North Dakota.
Temperatures are somewhat tielow the
seasonal average north of the Missouri
river mid generally In most sections east
of the Mississippi, hut In the sontliwes-
rmer than it
nther will
prevail over Sunday, though probably be
coming unsettled Siindny afternoon or
night.
THE CALENDAR
April 2T S a. in.. Ulster holidays close.
April '-'."j!l. Shakcpeare Tercentenary
Celebration.
April 2(5 Itaseball. Oklahoma A. ic M. vs.
.Missouri, Itolllns Held.
April 2T.-27. Meeting of Missouri Congress
of Mothers anil Parent-Teachers'
Association.
April IX Itaseball, Ames vs. Missouri. Rol
lins field. Spring games (track).
April L1!). Song cycle, "Cupid In Aready,"
by University Chorus and Colum
bia Choral Society under direction
of Trof. YV. II. Pommer, University
Auditorium.
May in. Journalism Week.
ESTER-RAY'S BASEBALL RESULTS
Xational League
Chicago S, Cincinnati 7.
St. Louis-Pittsburgh, rain.
Philadelphia-New York, rain.
Brooklyn-Boston, rain.
American League.
St. Louis 1, Cleveland 1
lings).
(13 in-
Anierican Association.
Minneapolis 10, Indianapolis C.
Louisville 4, St. Paul 3.
Milwaukee-Columbus, rain.
Kansas City-Toledo, rain.
RIOTING IN MEXICO
i . a r, .
'American Returning From
; Torreon, Tells of Anti-
j American Outbreak.
I ,!-v u"lu',, Press.
. bu- -lex- ADm - "reaa
winun women were urusueu
' to death, anti-American demonstra-
n an" l arranzista negotiations
! wit" viIla' d" IookinK towaru
I,eace- disclosed by an American
citizen wh arrivod hcre i0 from
uranK cit" and Torreon'
Atliougn ins story was repeated 10
the State Department, it was not con
firmed. Xo news of the 13,000 troops in
Mexico has been received.
MRS. PARKER, ST. RRKAKS IIII
Imalid Sewrcly Injured in Full at Her
Daughter's Home.
Mrs. Rebecca Parker, S7 years old,
'mother of Mrs. G. A. Bradford. 801 Lo-
jcust street, fractured her left leg at
(the hip yesterday afternoon when she
'fell at the home of her daughter.
Mrs. Parker, who has been ill for the
Thc walk seemed to weaken her.
Doctors Bradford, F. G. Xifong, and
A. W. McAlester were called. Doctor
Bradford said that because of her age
there is only a slight chance for her
complete recovery. Mrs. Parker has
lived in Columbia for the last fifteen
years,
'SEXATOIt IIAKMXK OX PROGRAM
It H E I Ohio Editor Will Speak at Journalism
6 2 j Banquet Here May .".
3 Ti 3 i Among the speakers at the Jour
nalism Week banquet. May 3, will be
United States Senator W. G. Harding
of Ohio. Senator Harding is the own
er and editor of the Marion (Ohio)
Star.
Senator Harding has been chosen
Penn bv half a length.
F. E. Williams in Law Tracticr.
Francis Emmett Williams, LL. B.
03. has sent out cards stating that he
has resumed the general practice of
law with office in Room S22, Pierce
Building. St. Louis.
M, U. MEN WILL TELL
T
A. H. R. Fairchild, N. M.
Trenholme and R. L.
Ramsay to Speak.
SONG CYCLE FRIDAY
Tercentenary Celebration to
Include Shakespeariana
Exhibition.
Lectures on Shakespeare's life, his
work and his time by members of the
University faculty, a sons cycle and
an exhibit of Shakespeariana will be
the program of the Shakespeare Ter
centenary celebration in Columbia this
week.
Dr A. II. R Fairchild of the English
department will speak on "Shakes
peare, the Man," at 7:20 o'clock Tues
day night in the University Auditor
ium. At 7:30 o'clock Wednesday night
in the University Auditorium Prof. X.
M. Trenholme of the history depart
ment will speak on "Shakespeare and
English History." Prof. Robert L.
Ramsay of the English department
will speak on "The Elizabethan The
ater" at 7:30 o'clock Thursday night
in the University Auditorium. At 8:13
o'clock Friday night in the University
Auditorium the University Chorus and
the Columbia Choral Society will pre
sent a song cycle. "Cupid in Aready,"
under the direction of Prof. W. II.
Pommer.
The exhibit of Shakespeariana will
be in the faculty room of the Library
Building. It will open Tuesday and
will last until Saturday evening. In
formal lectures explaining the exhibit
will be given. On Tuesday, Wednes
day and Thursday the exhibit will he
open from 9:30 to 12 and 2:30 to 3;
on Friday from i):30 to 12, 2:30 to 3
and 7:30 to 9: on Saturday from 9 to
12 and 2 to 5:30. The exhibit will be
open to the public on all of these days.
Special invitations have ben sent toi
the Columbia and University high I
school students to attend Saturday.
The lectures and other matter re
lating to the celebration will be pub
lished later in a University bulletin.
HIS HOME WRECKED IX STORM
F. I". I.ajher 1. earns of Loss While on
Way to See Parents.
Franklin C. Iayher. a student in the
University, while on his way home for
the Easter holidays, learned that his
home had been destroyed by a cyclone.
Layher left Columbia AVednesday
night on a fast train which does not
stop at Rockville, near which plaoe
his-- parents live on a farm. He con
cluded to spend a day with his grand
parents in Clinton, and while there
learned that a cyclone Wednes.l&y
evening had devastated his home.
wrecking every building on the farm
His father and mothervwere sitting in
the house when the storm blew every
vestige of the dwelling away, but they
were inot injured.
Dr. C. P. Bowdin, an Appleton City
physician, who had taken refuge from
the storm in the barn on the Layher
place, was killed by falling timbers.
He was a student in the University in
the late 'SO's.
M. U. MAX TO GOVERXMEXT WORK
Dean W. W. Charters to Lecture in
Graduate School of Agriculture.
Dean W. W Charters of the Univer
sity of Missouri and Prof. W. C. Bag
ley of the University of Illinois have
been appointed to take charge of the
courses in education which will be
given July 3 to July 7 at the graduate
school of agriculture in Amherst,
.Mass,, beginning July ?. and lasting
four weeks. The graduate school In
agriculture is given at a different col
lege each year by the government.
Two years ago it was held in Mis
souri. Courses in education for the
first time are being givan with the
courses in agriculture. Dean Charters
will lecture on different phases of the
theory of teaching.
I.-I.000 .Summer Bulletins Mailed, j Reports of circle presidents, a con
Fifteen thousand Summer School i feience on county organizations, led
bulletins have been mailed out by the j by Mrs. A. L. Tingling of Independ
University to teachers in Arkansas, ! ence, and a conference on child hy
Kansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma andjgiene. together with talks by Mrs.
Missouri. Later, about 15,000 more '.McBride on "The Future of the Con-
will be sent out to high school sen
iors and normal and junior college
graduates throughout those states.
Rajmond Kistier. .". Die.
Raymona Kistier. the 3-year-old
son of Mr. and Mrs Ernest Kistier,
died t his home near Stephens' Store
Irii. - u aiteraoon.
MOTHERS' CONGRESS
TO BE HEMTUESDAY
j 350 Delegates Expected at
Convention of Parent- j
Teacher Clubs.
PROGRAM IS VARIED
Noted Speakers to Talk and
?vlany Conferences Will
Be Held.
More than 230 delegates are expect
ed at the fourth annual convention of
the Missouri Congress of Mothers and
Parent-Teacher Associations, which
begins here Tuesday night. The con
vention will meet in Columbia at the
invitation of the mothers clubs of
Lee, Benton and Grant schools.
The lirst parent-teacher association
jin Columbia was organized five jears
! ago at Uenton School. Lee School
(was next. Grant School's association
is only a year old, while yet another
Mrs. J. it. Mcltriiie of Springtielij,
president of the Missouri Congress
of Mothers and Parent-Teacher As.
sedations.
mothers' club was organized two
weeks ago at Jefferson School.
The idea of the parent-teacher as
sociation started in America. It has
spread to foreign countries, and in
ternational congresses are held. The
associations work for child welfare
and advocate such things as the "Bet
ter Babies" movement, child labor
laws and juvenile courts. The Co'uin-
bia convention is that of a 30-year-old
state organization. Mrs. J. B. Mc
Bride of Springfield is president. The
national association will be repre
sented here by the vice-president of
the Xational Congress, Mrs. E. R.
Weeks.
First Meeting at Christian College.
The first meeting will be Tuesday
night at Christian College. The Rev.
Madison A. Hart will open the meet
ing with an invocation. Mrs. Frank
Mr. Bernard C. limit of Columbia,
recording secretary of the congress.
G. Harris will welcome tho visitors.
after which Mrs. McBride and Mrs.
Weeks will speak. Dean W. W. Chart
ers will deliver tlie address. -Miss
Alberta Bragg will sing.
gress" and by Miss Ella V. Dobbs on
"Manual Arts," are on the program for
Wednesday morning. Miss Blanche
Praton of Stephens College Till play.
The invocation will be by the Rev. C.
C. Crimes.
The convention will eie't officers
'-ft?
Wednesday afternoon, ni.- whlcn (Apr i '." Mr l.'irkse? I? in a'.tcrne
thrfre will be a business ses.iico, acdh-i iat city.
SHAKESPEARE
EDITION
an address by Prof. J. I). Elliff of the
University.
Superintendent J. E. McPherson
will give an address on "The Co-Operation
of Mothers' Circles With
School Authorities in Preventing the
Spread of Contagious Diseases" Wed
nesday night. The University string
quartet will furnish the music.
Conferences Thursday.
Most of Thursday morning will be
taken up with conferences and reports
of various kinds. Miss Louise Stan
ley will lead a conference on home
economics; Miss Jennie Ihlderhrandt
of St. Louis, one on social centers;
Mrs. Weeks, one on programs. The
seventh grade girls from the public
schools will sing.
Speakers for Thursday afternoon i ,.,,,.
. , i I'y I nited Press,
are: Mrs. Xorinan Windsor of St. i
Louis. W. W. Thomas of Springfield.! "MIU.V. April 22.-With the text
Mrs. Charles M. McDaris, Mrs. J. W. j of tIle American note printed in the
Fifield, William Robertson, Charles II., newspapers this afternoon, the Ger
Williams, of the Uniersity, W. T. ; man public was brought face to face
Carrington, president of the state nor- ,, , , , nossibilitv of .. enrlv
Imnl srhnol nt Snrincfipld. and Miss!
t,,. t,ii , .i. : .!..- it, n.
Mrs. Ray-
utiu ut.it vi iiiv. tf"" cufcj
niond Xelson will sing.
The closing meeting will be Thurs- j A"Kr-v comments were heard In
day night at Stephens College. After ! some quarters, and anxiety was dis-
an invocation by the Rev. T. W. ! played in the American colony. The
Young, J. L. Wagner will speak on ( vast majority of the people of Berlin,
"The Work of the State Board of however, remained calm, awaiting
Charities." and Manley O. Hudson of J word from the army headquarters
the University will speak on "Tlie j where the Kaiser is.
Children's Code of Humanity." Mit-s j
Avis Stott of Christian College will' j. GRADUATES WED HERE
sing.
Meeting at Church. 1''ss l'ssie llroiui. Columbia. Mar-
.,, ... .. ... , . . . ried to Earl Thomas, .St. Joseph.
All of the meetings Wednesday and '
those of Thursday, except Thursday liss Bessie Idela Brown of Colum
night, will be held at the Christian hia- all1 Kar' Thomas of St. Joseph,
both graduates of the University, were
It 's vl
I II I ,
-Mrs. .ornian Windsor of St. Louis,
tirst lict'.pre.sident of the congress.
Church. Luncheon and dinner will be
served the visitors in the basement by
the women of tlie church during the
convention.
In addition to the regular program
of speakers and music, two receptions
will be given, one at Christian Col
lege Tuesday night and one at Ste
phens College Thursday night. All
Columbia teachers and members of j
the mothers' club are invited to the 'Several Hundred Thousand
receptions. The delegates will also j Qrfered 0Ut No Ex
be given automobile rides over Co- . .
lumbia Wednesday afternoon. I emption Permitted.
Mrs. J. A. Stewart is chairman of j .
the committee on general arrange-! ny t'nlteil I're.
ments for the convention. There are i ROME, April 22. Several hundred
local arrangements in Kansas City, (thousand Italian troops were called to
St. Louis. Independence, Springfield, the colors by a decree issued today, rc
Sedalia, Carthage and Nevada. Mrs. j viving the report that the Allies are
D. O. McGovney is chairman of the ' making ready to form the great offen
hospitality committee. Mrs. Bernard sive movement planned at the Paris
a Hunt is on the program committee, ! conference. The announcement at the
as well as recording secretary of the war office said that no plea of exemp-
Missouri Congress.
21,000 COAL MIXERS STRIKE
Emplojes of Pittsburgh Company
Claim Agreement Xot Kept.
I'.y t'nlteil rre.
PITTSBURGH. April 22. Twenty-
four thousand coal miners in the
bituminous fields of this section were ,
ordered to strike tonight by President against the fortress two months ago.
Van Bittner and other officials of dis- Critics here are looking for a re
trict Xo. 3. This action followed the sumption of the German offensive on
alleged refusal of the Pittsburgh Coal la
Company to abide by an agreement
made In Xew York.
Guy Kirksey to He Married.
Announcement of the approaching
marriage of Guy Kirksey. former Mis- I home because of the ''"lth of his nn
stirl track star, to Miss Helei ;lart 1". G A. Dinoc, Is working in
.'..Her of St. Lou 3, al'-o a forrai s '.- 'the Telegrap'.i-Press at Kalamazoo,
tent in the Uaivcrsitj. has ben iijaiei Mich Mm. Sonke, .Irs. Ditnoa and
fi wedding wiil be .n St. LouH o'.
DEPENDSON KAISER
German Public, Following
Publication of U. S. Note,
Looks to William.
PEOPLE ARE CALM
Some Angry Comments Are
Heard Americans i n
Berlin Uneasv.
"'I'ture between Germany and the
1 United States.
rmrried at 3:30 o'clock yesterday af
ternoon at the Presbyterian Church in
'Columbia in the presence of relatives
and a few near friends. The cereircny
was performed by the Rev. Hamiito
JTalcr Guthrie of Crocker. Mo. a
.cousin of the bride. Miss Eita Wood
played the wedding march. Robert
Brown, a brother of the bride, and
Miss Bertha Brandt sang, accompanied
by Miss Alice Barr.
The bride is the daughter of Dr .iiid
,Mrs. W. II. Brown. HOC Paquin street.
, She was one of the two women to rc-
: ceive a B. S. In Agr. degree from the
University last year. The bridegroom
is the son of Dr. and Mrs. R. W.
Thomas of St. Joseph. He was gradu
ated from the College of Agri-.u'ture,
last June.
Those present from out of town
were Mrs. Frank Wright of Mount
Vernon, Ind., a sister of the grocm,
and McCamey and Grace Guthrie, both
of Mexico, Mo., cousins of the bride.
The couple left yesterday afternoon
for St. Joseph. They will make their
home on Mr. Thomas' dairy farm near
that city.
ITALY CULLS FOR MEN
tion would be granted.
j 700.000 French in Verdun Defense.
r.y 1,'nlteil I"rei.
LOXDOX. April 22. Estimates from
the German war office this afternoon
say that more than 700.000 French
troops have been engaged in the de
fense of Verdun since the Crown
Prince
launched his great drive
very large scale next week,
It. II. Sonfcr Working In Kalamazoo.
Bernard B. Sonke, a student In
jthe School of Journalism at the bc-
ginning of this session, who was called
Ralp. Sonke. brother of Mr. Sonke.
.are now In Colurcbl-i. They .will
j'eave for Kalamazoo tomorrow. ,
i
