VOL. JO
ONTAIUO, M II. Ill I It COUNTY, OIIEGON, Till ItHDAY, KKII. Si, Mllfl.
No 5.
I
!&ttt
lie
LINER TAKEN BY GERMANS
54 KILLED BY ZEPPELINS
Newport New, Vs., Feb. 1. The llrltliih South African liner Appam,
Riven up for lout, wan brought bltO Hampton Roads today flying a
German roan o'war flag, with a German prize crew. She was captured
at aea Jan. 15, four daya after she left Dakar, British Went Africa
The Appam brought her original paesengers and 138 persons said to
have been taken from other veasels by the Germans. Four Injured pas
sengers were aboard, said to have been taken from an English ship
from Australia. About 425 persons, Including the passengers and crew,
were aboard the ship.
It Is reported that the submarine which took the Appam sunk van
other ships.
i."ininn, Feb. 1. Four persons were killed and 67 injured In a Zep
pelin raid. Bombs were dropped on several towns and rural districts
In Derbyshire, Leicestershire, Lincolnshire and Staffordshire. Some
property was damaged.
WILSON ASKS QUICK
ACTION ON DEFENSE
i i, m land. New circumstances
bave arisen. President Wilson declar
ed, which makes It absolutely neces
sary that this country should prepare
for adequate national defense
"We are In the midst of a world
that we did not make and cannot al
ter," the president said. "Its wholi
atmospheric and physical conditions
re the conditions of our own life,
also; and therefore as your respon
sible servant I must tell you that the
dangers are Infinite and constant."
The president spoke In ''leveland
with more gravity and force than he
has shown during any of his previous
addresses on preparedness.
"Let me tell you very solemnly you
cannot postpone this thing." he de
clared. "I do last know what s single
day may bring forth.
I do not wish to lesve you with tin
impression that I urn thluklu,- of some
particular danger. I nurd) wish to
tell you Unit we ate dally treading
umliist ailri.-.ii, danger! 'I ' Hunger
tlml we ar. .iiiii.i .-Mt are not
hi our own making ami not iindi r our
control I think no mail In Hie Pulled
Stales knows what a silicic
single day. a single hour muy bring
forth."
BEATS ALL HISTORY
FOR SEVERE STORMS
Oregon Short Line Officials report
this the worst year for snow and
storms they have ever experienced,
practically evory one of their
branches were out of commission at
one time.
While the snow at Ontario has not
been very deep at any oue time, this
will bo remembered as the hardest
winter in years, the cold and snow
having lasted much longer than us
ual. In sections where cattle were not
gathered they are losing heavily.
With the ground frozen ami In low
places covered with ice there is found
to be damage done to the alfalfa
fields.
There is a demand for all the hay
In this section from the Portland
market, where they are very short,
owlug to the unusual weather.
The local sheep and cattle meu are
well supplied, the. dry fall compelled
them to get onto the feeding grounds
early and large quantities of hay
were purchased ho they will be all
right if the winter breaks up this
mouth.
LUMKN's MJJbWIONAJJU
MOVEMENT CONVENTION.
All churches ami all granges of
the State are being notified of the
coming convention of the Laymen's
Missionary Movement, to h-- held at
the White Temple in Portland, Feb
ruary 13 to 16, and the executive
committee for the convention exteuds
the invitation to attend, to ail male
members ot every chuich organiz
ation of Oregou und Southwestern
Washington
The convention will he addressed
by twelve or filteeu of (he most prom
inent mil. connected w ith the
missionary movement of the world,
both at noli S am! abroad.
Mrs. J. I) Kairmau is visiting witli
i ' i. M. Morton of Ou-
laru. Mrs 'airman came dowu
from 'Lo up r country Saturday.
ONTARIO SCHOOL
TO PLANT GARDEN
Through the efforts of Senator
Chamberlsln, the High Schol Agri
culture class and eighth grade hsve
received a large sack of garden
seeds, to be plsnted In the form of a
school garden by the members of
those classes. This work Is under the
supervision of Mr Bailey and Is one
of the most recent and the most use
ful of benefits of the modern ncIiooIh
In order to graduate each member
of the Agriculture class must plant
and take care of a certain amount of
garden products The very best seed
has been sent from Washington l C
mid the school garden this year will
probably be the best In the history of
the school.
L. D. BRANDEIS.:?
Louis D. Brandsls, namsd by Presi
dent Wilson to succtsd ths Ists Jus
tics Lamar on ths Supreme Court
bench.
The receipts from all motor and
chauffeur registrations in Malheur
County for ths year 1 11 & amounted
to tlisi on Expenses Incurred
1195.08. Out of the funds received
$786.92 was remitted to the county
treasurer for benefit of county road
fund.
News Sn&pshote
Of the Week
The first
of .eace
I ' M" sbbbbbbbb!
JS Mr
V I
A ssi ESBsW
&i& j ksBHsflBBWssslBsaazssVRP HssHslBfik bsVh lAI iHhTi A SegiSSsl
as sa? HaMSSjsjJpfL. it Jj'sH I SMssrBBas-fi Pssttj RkVhw-s ' 'sl
J IbsW' lasaswBBB r "HsBHBaBWBBBBWsswsxBBrj jai aV a'SwsJTtlaflflppaeJJjjHS tS&ao P
I'ai'i-n cuiillsi a led by the. British twit- certain check stubs which may Indicate his timtiulul backing of German propaganda in this country before be
recalled. General lluerta, former provisional president of Mexico, died whiles prisoner of the United States. General Treviuo, Carrauza'a officer, continued
Lit search of Mexican bandits who killed HTssHaa.il Americans. An explosion on submarine. L- lu dry dock at Brooklyn re.-.ulled hi tin deaths.
BIG TRANSFER OF
LUMBER COMPANIES
A deal Is being closed up this week
whereby the lumber yards at Ontario,
Payette, Vale and Nyssa belonging
to the Empire Lumber Company, the
Adams Lumber Company at Parma
and the Piatt yard at Wilder all pass
to the ownership of the Boise-Payette
Lumber company, one of the Weyer
houser subsidiary companies, the
latter being the largest timber own
ers In America.
This is the concern that built a raP
road from Boise to Moores creek so
they could got their lumber to mar
ket and In consideration of this Im
provement the people of Boise made
them a very low price on a lot of state
timber adjoining their holdings.
With the local yards taken over this
week the company now owns over
HO lumber yards in western Idaho
and eastern Oregon.
While we have not been able to see
any of the officials of the company we
presume they will soon be here and
have an announcement to the com
munity of their policy.
L. Adam established the Kmplre
Lumber company here twenty yeari
ago, when the present city was but
a country village. On Main strest
there were three brick stores
the Wilson grocery store, the Odd
Fellows building and the M. M.
Companys store. Of the frame build
ings there are n"t many left, the
building Just north of the Argus of
flee, where the only murder ever cr i-.
in it t,-. i In Ontario occurred,
Stuart building, the harness shop d
ths old post office building next o
the M M. Company's store. A sum
ming up of the firms then doing busi
ness here would show Just as many
changes, few of the pioneer firms
remaining.
The other yards have all been es
tablished since 1900.
Mr Adam does not expect to leave
Ontario hut will devote his time to
his other In n-sinn-nts, he was the
owner of the com rolling taterrat in'
the group ot yards.
Mr. EiiiIhoii may move lo Mon
tana, where he has some bright pros
No announcement has been made
us to Ihe managers for the yards und
probably will not he until Ihe stocks
haie I, en checked over and the of
tidal transfer made.
There Is always a pang of regret
when a pioneer firm goes out of busi
ness, especially one that has served
the public so satisfactorily as the
Kmplre.
TO IMH BI.E-TH (k IMIAII.
The Oregon Short Line Hallway
Co. has a gang of engineers at this
place surveying the railroad's right -of-way
for the purpose of double
trnckiug their line through this
place. This will be the next improve
ment by this company, and will mean
the expenditure of some little money.
Caldwell News.
It will be several days before the
surveyors reach Ontario, because of
some heavy work eust of Parma.
Ten cars of baled hay have been
shipped out of Parma during the past
two weeks by the Cash Orain Co., ol
Outarlo, which has a crew of mei.
here baling and shipping. The hay is
billed to Vale and coast points.
Parma Heview.
decisive surrender of the wsr was bsrely averted when King Nicholas of Montenegro refused Austria's proffered terms
after ihe former's capital had been captured. Further Balkan dllticiillles manifested thcinselves when the allies laialeu
at Piraeus and l'hulerun. near Athens. On e. bile rumors of revolution lu tireece were heard. Working plans for a real block
ade of Germany by Admiral Jelllcoo lo satisfy neutrals were being considered by England Among the effects of Captain von
WEST TO HARNEY
Weather conditions do not put a
quietus on the work of extending the
Oregon and Eastern railroad west
ward Into Harney county. So says H.
C. French of Harrlman, who Is In On
tario on a business trip from the In
terior.
Notwithstanding the snappy weath
er that prevails In the section of rsll
rosd building, about 200 men are put
ting In the finishing touches on the
steel bridges, deep cuts and heavy
grades, preparatory to the final dash
for the level country In the vicinity
of Harrlman, from which point the
building of the line westward will
be clear sailing
The bridge on the McRsy ranch,
some four miles west of HIvoTslde, Is
completed, and workmen are now
finishing the Swamp creek bridge
near the Spurlock ranch to which
point rails have been laid. The last
Important bridge to be built over the
Malheur river will be near the Bla
lock ranch. Four camps are estab
lished between Hlverslde and Mile
Post 110, which point Is about three
miles east of Harrlman and the ter
minus of contract to be completed
n July. Camp 6 Is nesr whst Is term
ed the Cary Cut on the Cary ranch
and Is considered the heaviest work
slong the line. This will be the last
difficult excavation before going
l.r, .,,,.,, ,1... ....,, ,, ,,, u,. ,,
y
it
Is the consensus of opinion out
Iliirrlman ws that operations In rail
road building will cease at Mile Post
110, for at least a few months Itlght
of -way Agent Moore, for the Oregon
K Eastern, has recently filed right-of-way
from Mile Post no to l i.ik
Mountain, a distance of 35 miles
This Is thought to be only another
unit of the railroad to he built In the
future. Ihe date of completion helug
only guesswork
Tin- dcnlcns of Harney valley are
nptmiihdlc III the belief that the rail
road will leach Ihem hy July I, I !i 1 1.
The eniii will he an era of greut re
joicing in that land of promise for
those who hate waited patiently for
ears for the mhiihI ol loOMBOUvg
whistles and rumbling trains.
BIG I'KI NEOIU li.KI
DEAL CONMI MMATIII
A deal was consummated yestcnlav
whereby Miles Cannon sells his In
terest In the Nyssa prune orchard of
110 acres to lint partner, Joseph Con
celmo or Philadelphia. Knur thou
sand dollars was deposited with the
First National bank of Weiser to blud
the bargain, and If the parties mak
ng the purchase should back out they
forfslt this amount. The orchard is
the largest of Its kind In the north
west and It has an evaporating plant
that la the most complete and suc
cessful lu the country. The consider
ation Is not given,, but as the orchard
was a great money maker it goes
without saying that Mr. Cannon re
ceived a neat sum In fact he smil
ingly said he did not lose anything.
Weiser Signal.
HVITIsT i III M II.
Preaching services next Sunday at
both hours.
The probabilities are that Itev. I).
Lsrce will fill the pulpit both morn
ing and evening.
The public is invited to these ser
vices. O E. Baker, Pastor.
CASCADES
AND
The snow started falling here and over the most of the northwest on
Monday night nnd Is still at it. When this was written Wednesday noon.
All O. W. it A N. trains have been abandoned, Indicating the storm
Is more severe In the west. The line to the East Is still open, No. 17
coming through on time this morning end being held at Huntington.
There Is trouble west of the Dalles, near Pendleton and Baker.
On the Idaho Northern It will be several weeks before a train can get
through owing to the slides through-out the length of the csnyon.
The Pin is in lit!" better shape but they have only short stretches of
bad country.
About eighteen Inches of snow has fallen here.
Harrison Seawenrd says this winter Is almost a duplicate of 89 and
90, when It lasted until March IS.
Orriu Boyer did some good work sround town with his snow plow.
CRAZING PERMITS
IN MALHEUR FOREST
The Secretary of Agriculture has
authorised the grazing of 24,800
head of cattle and horses, 128,200
head of sheep anil gosts, snd 50 head
of swine on the Malheur Nations)
Forest during the sesson of 191(1
The rsnges of the Forest sre open
to use, under permit, hy sll settlers
and ranchers In or nesr the Forest. It
Is a trespass however to use the range
without permit. These permits are
now being prepared hy the office
force at John Day Any Information
relative to grazing, or the use of the
Forest In general, will be gladly fur
nished upon request to the Huperv ;
Of, Qf J- Hlnghain. at John Hay,
Oregon.
GOVERNOR BURNQUIST
J. A. A. Burnqulst, Republican, who
SUCCSSdsd ths Ists W. 8. Hammond,
Democrat, ss Governor of Minnesota.
I i i.i in .(. i
MINT
i.'i IT
I MUM. IT.
Stop! Look!' Listen!!!
The anil truck walking crusade
has hit the country. It Is a national
movement to reduce the number of
men, women and children killed or
mutilated each year because they
insist on wearing out their shoes on
railroad tracks and ties. The yearly
average number of accidents in the
lulled States is 10,000.
P .arJaSk.
TF A Lft
.sassf A
aftaaaaaai Lbbsbi .SSBBBB1
SOUND
HAVE PLENTY OF SNOW
60 LIVES LOST IN
CALIFORNIA FLOODS
Ssn Diego Sixty lives have been
lost, as nearly as any estlmste can
show, and charming little California
valleys for 60 miles north of the Mexi
can line lie desolste from floods and
cloudbursts.
The first intimation of the disaster
wss when bodies of animals, pieces of
furniture snd hits of houses were ob
served flosting in the bsy opposite the
Ban Diego waterfront.
Looting, described by Hear Admiral
William F. Eul'ijm. cnmmsndlng the
Psclflc reserve fleet, ss the "worst I
hsve i vci seen, broke out III the
stricken Ots) nUte) while sailors snd
marines I nun warships in San Diego
tolled to i, i,,i i tin- hoillcs of the 60
estimate.) victims of the Lower Otay
reservoir flood
it, i rts that Die cloudburst In Ran
Luis Id ami San Pasqual valleys
pmhublv i ost mi more than ten lives
rrilin i it Ihe prolijhli- tolal death list
In this region to about i.i1
TsWM thousand persons ore home
less, according to the estimate given
out late h the relict committee or
ganlzed I y tin- Sun Diego chamber ot
coiuiih n i i H lliesi '."" are shelter
ed on the hillsides at Palm station,
the highest point adjacent to Otay
City, where buildings of sll kinds
wire leveled ami washed Into the wa
ters of Ssti Diego bsy.
SELECT A GOOD BOOK
FOR THE LIBRARY
In progress at Lemon's Jewelry
store all this week and next, the
book sale for the benefit of the public
library promises to result in the plac
ing of a fine lot of books on the
shelves. The book social, which la
to take place Friday eve.i'.ng, Feb.
1 ltli, will be at the library, where the
members of the Women's Club will
keep open house for the occasion,
and serve refreshments to the guests.
The people of Outsrlo huve always
been so kind to the library, and have
responded so liberally to every call
for assistance, that It Is expected a
large number will attend the social
.Hoi m lug one of the books from the
counter at Letson's.
If you have examined the books,
you know they are Just the kind need
ed In a busy library. A large pre
centage are children's hooks, though
there are a number for grown people
too; both fiction and non-fiction.
There's some poetry, and some his
tory, a very few books of essays, some
of the popular novels, and also a
number ot the Boy Scout hooks, chos
en by their national orgauuation as
books boys should read. Then there
are also numbers of other books for
young people Altogether It's a
dandy list, and every Ontario resi
dent wants to do his part lo assist
the library to own the whoh lot.
APPLICATIONS EOll
l.HA.IM. PEKMITH
Notice is hereby given tiiat all vp
plicat ions for permits to graze cattiv
horses, and sheep within ihe Malheur
National Forest during the season of
Itlt, must he tiled in my office at
John Day, Oregon, on or belon
ruary 29, 1116. Full information
lu regard to the grazing fees to be
charged and blank lorius lo lie used
in making applications will be fur
nished upon request.
Of J Bingham, Supervisor. 5-9
i
