1L 1 0
1 V'r;. . if i i 1 1 ! 11 ! ;
PRICE.' two cent:
POPULATION 23,219
NORWICH, CCMrJ., THURSDAY, FECnUARY 3, 1916
TEN PAGES
Tha Bulletin's Circulation , in Norwich b Doubls That ,cf Any Other-Paper, end Its TctrX Circulation is th3 l';fst in Connecticut in Prcpcrtion to tha City's Pcpufation p
5
MiMv mm WiiW::
Between the Stcchcd and Styr Rivers Vienna An
nounces Capture of Trenches
ARTILLERY ENGAGEMENTS ONALL THE FRONTS
Heavy Bombardments Have , Taken Place in the Champagne
Region of France and in the Vosges Mountains Austri-
. ans Report the Repulse of Italian Infantry Attacks in the
Sagana Valley Largs Numbers of German, Bulgarians
and Turks Are Concentrating Along the Greek Frontier
A Rome Despatch Says That Greece and Rumania
f Have Signed a Dual Neutrality Pact. "
There is scarcely any fighting on any
c-f the battle frcnts except artillery en
gagements and in none of these has
any noteworthy. . achievement been
recorded. Heavy toom'bardments have
taken place in the Champagne region
of France near St. Die, in the Vosges
Mountains, -with the ' French the"rag
gTeRsora. . The Freneh guns also have
shelled the townof Lens. ' ,.,
' On the Russian front Berlin claims
the defeat of a strong- Russian force
between the Stochod and Styr rivers,
while Vienna reports the forced with
drawal of the Russians from their ad
- vanced trenches near- Usvieczko, - in
East : Galicia, during mining . opera-?
tions. -r;"7 ' ".;..t-. '. -:'
' In hand-to-hand fighting on- the Col
dl ana slope the Austrians report the
capture and. destruction of Italian saps
an dalso the repulse of Italian in
fantry attacks in the Sagana valley.
Rome; however, oredits the Italians
with the victory In the latter region.
The concentration of large numbers
of Germans, Bulgarians . and . Turks
WERNER HORN HABEAS , - -
CORPUS PROCEEDINGS
Agruments Mads in Federal Court of
r Appeals at Sosten. -
Boston, . Feb, 2-The federal circuit
court- of appeals today heard argu
ments on the appeal in the habeas cor
pus proceedings filed by Werner Horn,
who was Indicted for illegally trans
porting dynamite in his attempt A to
blow up the international bridge at
Vancebcro, Ms., on February 2, 1915.
Horn has been .in jail here since his
habeas corpus petition was denied,
Joseph F. - O'Connell, counsel -. . fo
Horn, declared that the attempt to
wreck the bridge was an act of war
lerformed by a German officer, and
that no - violation of the laws of the,
"United States - was involved. In his
plea, Horn asserted that "? ' h had
served 12 year in the :17th Prussian
regiment, and ajpo :in the Landwehr
division of the German jirmy since the
war was declared. His acts while in
this country ,-he claimed, were done un-
-ler his authority as an officer of the
German army. His commission was
taken from Ijim by the United States
officials after his arrest.
"The bridge . at Vanceboro; Horn
asserted, , "was 1 used by the . British
government for the transportation of
vast stores of. - ammunition, , .; imple
. merts of war, 'food stuffs and other
materials used entirely by -the British
eovernment in their effort to defeat the
German army, of which I am an of
ficer."?. : ' !.. v
STEAMER APPAM A
T - GERMAN PRIZE OF WAR.
.1 ... ii i ii.
Indications Are That AJnited .States
Will So Regard Her,
- Washington, Feb. 1. Indications that
the British passenger liner Appam,
broupht into Hampton Hoards by a
German prize crew, will be held b?
the United Stqrftes to be a German prize
of war and not an auxiliary cruiser,
were given out tonight to high official
juartersc .. : " .' - "
, The neutrality board, whicli advises
"he state department on such ques
tions, announced today that the hip
was a prize, but the announcement was
recalled later, presumably because the
Btate- department itself has not acted.
The real point to be declared is
whether the Appam shall remain in
possession of the prize crew under the
terms of the Prussian-American
treaty or shall be returned to her Brit
ish owners under The Hague conven
tion. Indications were given that the
state, department will hold that : the
prize belong to Germany.
Count Von Bernstorff. . the ; German
f abassador. in a formal note to Sec
retary Lansing, gave notice that the
Appam. came into Hampton Jrcoaas ni
ter the treat . which guarantees pos
- session to her captors. Captain Cecil
Bpring-Rice, the British ambassador.
a.sked that the.ship be returned to her
Britiolr own err aaa prize, recovered
under The Hague convention. '
EIJSHTEEN INCHES OF - 4
; SNOW AT SEATTLE
Street Car Traffic 8 topped and Bus
iness Crippled -
Seattle, Washington Feb. 2 Eight
len inches of enow on' the ground
flopped street car trafBo here today,
isoTRanized the public . schools ; and
(rippled bunlness and maaufacturitLg.'
it is still snowing. -; -
No overland ' trairf ha arrived here
lince 7 p. m. yesterday. The North
jrn Padflc is working with snow plows
lut Great Northern and ?Iicai?o, Mil
waukee and St. Paul trains are -laid
IP in division point yards or enow
Knnd in the mountaina ,; i:w
Advices from Juneau, Alaska, say
tlevea meii perished In the recent
Itorm. The fishing schooner Edfson,
(f Tacoma, was wrecked on Csspe De
li sion, and her crew of six perished,
two men were lost from the fishing
(chooner Eunice. The jras boat W. N.
' ras wrecked at Cape Bendel and two
pen lost. Herbert Allen was frozen
jp death near the Olympia mine.
along the Greek frontier is taken in
Athens to mean that an attack by the
Teutons and their allies is soon To be
made on Salonlki.
In i Albania the Austro-Hungarians
are reported to be continuing their
progress unopposed. A despatcn irom
Athcns-says a portion of the 'Montene
grin army has effected a junction with
the Serbian troops and fallen back on
Durazzo,. Albania's support, which is
now the main objective of the Austro-
Hunerarias.
Greece and Rumania have signed a
dual neutrality compact, according., to
a Rome despatch, r
The British in East and West Afrl
ca are keeping up their gains against
the Germans in , the capture of towns
and military positions according to Of
ficial - reports , from that region, ' In
West Africa; a - British column had
formed a junction with the - French
troops at Ambam, the crown prince
of Turkey is .reported in a Constan
tinople . despatch coming by way of
Uerlin to have committed (suicide -ow
ing to 1U health,
r
MYSTERIOUS EXPLOSION IN
BRIDGEPORT BILLIARD ROOM
Manager Holds, the Theory of a Com
' Bridgeport, Conn.,. Feb. 2. A mys
terious explosion in the front portion
of - lender's billiard parlors, on the
ground floor, on Broad street Just south
of the -post office, arly this evening,
gutted the billiard establishment: and
partly wrecked the Arco theater, next
door. - The total damage is estimat
ed at $10,000.
The "billiard room was well filled with
players when, without warning, a great
flash of flame shot up from the' front
part, close to a -stairway.' There was
no gas in the building.- Sorapidly did
the flames spread that the occupants
had reat difficulty in escaping.
Thefire marshal - expressed the
opinion that some one spread powder,
then dropped a match on it. The man
ager' holds the theory, of a combustible
bomb, but says no , warning I or threat
had been received. ' , , -f
; Henry Freeman of Holyoke, Mass., 22
years old. was noticed near the spot
where the fire started, a few minu
tes before .'the flash came.. A few min
utes later he was found wedged in an
tipper rear window, through which he
had tried to escape. His left -leg was
broken. He is in a hospital and will
be questioned by the police tomor
row. He is said - to have come to
Bridgeport only on Saturday last,
- 'The audience in the theatre filed but
quietly when it was announced that
there, was a fire next door and there
was no panic there.
..i. 1 '-
MAD DOG RAN THROUGH
' STREETS OF NEWTOWN
Biting Three Horses and a Cow Caua-
., , ed Much, Excitement. '
; Newtown, Conn., Feb. 2. A suppos
edly mad dog ran through the town
today,, biting three horses and a cow
and caused much .excitement until its
life wa sended by a rifle shot. . Its head
was cut off and sent to the state lab
oratory at Middletown, where an ex
amination will be made to determine
if it had rabies.- The animals bitten
have been placed in -quarantine. .
-I. r;;i-- ;
TWO MEN KILLED
BY BOILER EXPLOSION
In 'Plant of .Howe Rubber Co., New
. . ' ! Brunswick, N. J. ; ; s :
New Brunswick, N. J.,; Feb. 2. Two
men . were killed and several others
Injured by a boiler explosion . follow
ed my fine which ' destroy ed the plant
of the Howe Rubber company in
Northern New 'Brunswick township to
day., The men killed were said to have
been the company's engineer and . fire
man. ' The property loss was stimat
ed at between 175,000 and $100,000.
OBITUARY.
.. n . r John .J Haffenan.
Woonsocket, R. I., Feb. 2. John J.
Heffernon, a prominent local lawyer,
died this noon at his home 97 Wood
land road, after a few days' illness of
acute, indigestion, He was B5 years
old. - He - leaves a wife and one
daughter. At one time he was prom
inent in democratic city and . state
politics. - He had aerved as an alder
man and as a representative in the
general Bssemtoly , .,
- " Dr. Thomas H. Russell.
New Haven, Conn., Feb. . 2. Dr.
Thomas H. Ruesell, professor of clin
ical surf ery in the Yale Medical
school, died at his home here today of
pneumonia, aged 65, He was gradu
ated from the Sheffeld Scientific school
in 1872 and from the Tale Medical
school in 1375. . Dr. Russell was a
member of many medical and learned
societies. '- : v-
His father, the late General W. H.
Russell, organized the state militia;
was the. head of the famous RUsselj
Military school here and founded the
Yale Senior society of Skull - and
Bones.
Cabled Paragraphs
. - Morgenthau Sails For Home.'
Constantinople, Turkey. -Feb; 2. via
Amsterdam, and London 2.30 p. m.
Henry Morgenthau, American ambas
sador to Turkey, left today for the
United States. He will travel byNway
of the Balkans and Berlin. . - -
British, Aviator Dies of Injuria.'
London, Feb. 2, 11.27 a. m. Lieuten
ant J. S. Reed of the Royal Flying
corps, died today as a result of in
juries sustained at Aldershot by the
fall of a new aeroplane on which ' he
was acting as observer. Lieutenant
Browning, the pilot, was injured bad
ly. . -
JAPANESE STEAMSHIP
- ABANDONED OFF CAPE RACE
In a Sinking Condition After' Collision
with Steamer Silver Shell. -'
: New Tork. Feb. 2. The' new Jap
anese steamship Takata Maru, in col
lision - last night with the American
oil tank steamer Silver Shell about
200 miles southeast of. Cape Race, N.
F, was abandoned in a sinking con
dition after Jier crew was transferred
safely to the Silver Shell, according to
a wireless message received here to
night from Captain Moses -f of the
wrecked vesseL -; --. ,, (.' -.
Officials of the Anchor line, repre
senting the owners of the Japanese
vessel . at - this port, who received the
message from Captain Moses an
nounced that, their steamer. Califor
nia, which left here Monday for Glas
gow, had been directed by wireless
to overtake the Silver Shell and stand
by in case of emergency. .
The Silver ShelL although Mn no
Immediate danger, also was damaged.
but according to Captain Moses, was
proceeding to the Ji.hgiish channel.
Another vessel, the British - tramp
steamer Armonia. which sailed .from
New York for Bordeaux on January
28, Is now ' standing by the Silver
Shell. It is believed in shipping cirv
eles nere tnat the laitata Jiar proD-
ablysank soon after she was abon
doned as the last wireless message
flashed : from her -many hours before
her crew was taken offl said she was
then in immediate need of assistance.
Details of the collision are lacking.
The Japanese, vessel, whose toss ton
nage was B,719, was described by her
agents " there as - the last word in
steamship construction." She was built
a year ago and was on her second
voyaige to New York. She was owned
by the i Nippon! Ship "company, which
operates fleets on both the Atlantic
and Pacific and sailed from London
for New York on January 22 in balr
last. .- i ' - -
The steamer Armonia. which pro
ceeded to the scene of the collision as
soon as- she picked up the wireless
signals of distress, was herself badly
damaged in a heavy gale on her voy
age to this city, where she 'arrived
January 12. r- . , .
STATISTICS OF RECENT GERMAN
AEROPLANE. RAID IN ENGLAND
Total ef 59 Killed, of Whom 20 Ware
"; Women and Six Children.
' London, Feb. 2, 11.38- p..m. The war
office tonight issued the -. -: following
statement with reference to the Zep
pelin raid on England: : . - " , -
-"The-utterly inaccurate report in the
tierlin 'official teJegram of ebruary
which purported : to describe the ef
fect of the German air raid on the
night of Januaty 31.- affords further
proof of the fact that the raidert were
quite-Unable- to "ascertain their' posi
Hon or shape their course ; with any
degree of certainty. - - - - .
i' "A number of cases of iniurv. most
ly, slight, have been reported since the
previous figures were issued and there
have been two or three more deaths,
The figures now stand as follows:
... "Killed Men S3; women 20; children
"Injured Men 61; women 48s chil
dren 2. Total 101.. making the totals
of killed .and injured men 84; women
6S'; children 8 total of 160. .
"A church and Congregational chapel
we're toadly damaged and a parish room
was wrecked.. Fourteen houses were
demolished and a- great number dam
ager, less seriously, by 'doors, window
frames. eac,: being blown out. : - Some
damage, not very serious, was caused,
to railway property in two places.'
Only two factories, n neither being of
military importance and a ; brewery
were badly . damaged an dtwo or three
other factories were damaged slightly.
"The total number of bombs discov
ered up to the present exceeds 300.
Many of them fell in -' rural - places,
where no damage was caused."
MARINE INSURANCE
- RATES ARE INCREASED
A tha Result of the Exploit of Ger
man Sea Raiders. ' ?
New York, Feb. 2. The exploit of
the German sea raiders which sank
seven British steamers and captured
the Appam has demoralized certain
classes of marine . insurace ratee, it
was learned in shipping circles here
today. The insurance men felt, it was
said, that there was ho assurance that
the reported exploit of getting out of
Kiel and sinking ships on the high seas
might not be repeated by eome other
German commerce destroyers. Nor was
it known, it was pointed out, whether
the German . vessel that captured the
Appam was not still active. , '.;
"The rates to all ports ore the Atlan
tic ocean have been raised,'' , said a
member of one' insurance firm. "Rates
that were formerly from one-eighth to
onequarter have now been announced
as from one-half to one and one-half
per cent." . ; : - ,: ' - . :. - , - .. ;. .
A member of another firm saidVthat
while rates to the United Kingdom and
(France were not changed, those to Af
rica, and via the capes to Australia
were so - unsettled that he - could not
make definite quotations. They were
anywhere from two- to ten times higher
than the rates previous to the arrival
of the Appam, he said, adding that
some companies Were declining all Af
rican business.- :
MAN WANTED FOR KINGSTON
MURDERS 'GIVES HIMSELF UP.
James Morris Admits Murder of
- Rhodes in Self Defense.
Proidenc. R. I Fea.-. J-fjn
Morris, for wham the r-oiice had len J
der of Wiiliscs: Rhodes, 0-jsa";'
sen and Oscar Cigar . at EJftgsfrotv, on
January 29. gave biAtsaJf up a pollaa
headquarters tonight, r Aocordimr to
the police Morria told then? that he
had killed Rhodes, a': negro,' in self
defer.se, after.' Rhodes had killed and
robbed the Olsens. He was held as a
fugitive from justice. ' . .; , . ,v
Rotterdam, Feb. 1. Arrived: Steam
er Niew Amsierdam, New York.
Alibi Defense "in
LlohrLlurdcrCoso
' -': i )
BROWN, ONE OF ACCUSED NE-
- GROES, ON THE 8TAND v '
LACKS CORROBORATION
Claim He Rode Toward Rocky Point
the Night of the Murder Mrs. .Bes
sie Spellman - and Mrs. -Gertrude
Dailey Charged With Perjqrv.
Providence, R. -L, Feb. J. The final
appeal to the jury by-counsel for the
defense in the. trial of Mrs. Elizabeth
F. Mohr, accused with two negroes of
tha -murder of her husband. Dr. C,
Franklin Mohr, will be made tomor
row. When court adjourned today the
state had begun putting in its rebuttal
ana it was announced tnat ail or. trie
testimony would probably- be in some
time before the noon recess tomorrow
and that the closing arguments would
be made at once. The case will prob
ably go to tne jury on Saturday. ;
Only On, of Accused Negroes Testified
- umy one or the two negro defend-
ants Cecil . Victor Crown -and Henry
H. Spellman- was put on ' the stand.
Spellman was first called, but when
objection was made to his testifying
in the absence of Mr. Edwards, his
counsel. Brown was called and the de
fense closed with his testimony.
r Brown Denied All Allegations.
' Brown denied all - the incriminating
allegations made against him by the
state's witnesses.) He was asked
specifically about-the- most important
charges, and he denied each one cate
gorically and disclaimed all knowledge
of the murder of Dr. Mohr on the night
of Aug. 31, 1915. . He denied he shot
the doctor; denied that Mra. Mohr had
promised to give him $2,000 to do the
job; denied that Mrs. Mohr bought him
a motorcycle; denied that he said in
Mrs. Mohr's presence at police head
quarters that she hired him to slay
her husband.. . ; ". ! -: v
Defense Was an Alibi. " . '
: Brown's defense was an alibi. He
asserted : that 'on the night Dr. Mohr
was shot he rode his motorcycle down
toward Rocky Point and then to River
side. . The latter place is about half
way between this city and the scene of
the shooting. - . ' - -
Not at Mrs. Mohr's House With Healia
The witness in cross examination
was able to give no reason whybe
took the ride other than "just, riding,
nor could he name a single person he
talked to that evening except the three
or four state witnesses - who saw" him
at . Riverside. :- 'He denied he was at
Mrs. Mohr's house with George Heall
on the night of Aug. 27, when Healis
claims the . murcjler plot was hatched.
' : Made No Confession.-' ,..
,7, He characterized as untrue the rtory
of Healis that Brown said Mrs. Mohr
had given him poison to drop in the
doctor's cofiee, or that he ever threat
ened to "fix the doctor on his way to
Newport.". He asserted that he did not
make any - confession to the police or
newspaper reporters. : , .
Making Fun of Police. '
.' "We 'were making fun of Chief Rob
bins and laughing at him, although he
did not know it, while we were show
ing him where we threw our guns into
the lake," declared Brown in testifying
about this portion of his alleged con
fession to the police. v. ,-
Two Arrests for Perjury. ; V; ,
The announcement that Mrs. Bessie
Spellman and , Mrs. Gertrude Dailey,
wife and sister respectively of Henry
Spellman, . wire " arrested - this noon,
charged with perjury, in - connection
with their evidence in support of the
prisoner's alibi, reached . the Jury at
the 'afternoon session when Attorney
Lewis got Police Captain George H.
fMonahan to admit it , on the witness
stand. . . - , -
Captain Monahan and Court : Clerk
Robert Root were called in rebuttal by
the state after Brown left the stand.
The court will announce in the morning
a ruling on the question of permitting
Captain Monahan to say if Mrs. Mohr
made some - remarks when Brown, as
the state alleges, accused her at police
headquarters on the morning of Sept.
2 of hiring him to kill the doctor.
FAVORABLE REPORT TO
PAY COLOMBIA $25,000,000.
By Senate Foreign '.Relations Commit
teeWith Expressions of Regret.
tVaahlngton, Feb."-- 2. The long
fought treaty to pay Colombia $25,000,
000 and express regret for the parti
tion of Panama was ordered favorably
reported to - the senate today by for
eign relations committee, with amend
ments reducing the indemnity to $15,
000,030 and making the expression of
regret mutual to both - the United
States and Colombia. ,
;A bare majority of one vote put the
treaty out of committee and into the
senate, -where, with the full force of
the administration, it will be ; pressed
for ratification in line with the poli
cy -of harmonizing relations with all
Latin-America for the Pan-Americanism
proclaimed by President Wil
son at the recent Pan-American -, con
gress -V f V'-
By a vote of-10 to 8, tlfc committee
also ordered a favorable report on the
treaty to pay -Nicaragua $3,000,000. for
an inter-oceanic canal route and naval
base in the Bay of Fonseca. Action
on the treaty extending a financial pro
tectorate over Haiti was deferred.
; Ont the Colombian treaty the re
publicans lined up solidly against it
and the democrats,, lined up for it with
the single exception - of Senator
Clarke, who voted with the republi
cans. Senators Lodre. Smith of Mich
igan - and Borah -wero the only op
ponents of the Xic?.raguan convention.
Opponents of tne treaties announced
their Jntentiori to fight them to the
last extrimity.
CHARGED W!TH USING
MAIL8 TO DEFRAUD
Joseph L. Pierce, Said 'to ba a Boston
.. Lawyer, Held in New Haven -
New Haven, Conn., Feb. 2. Charged
with using the mails to defraud, Joseph-
L Fierce, j said to be a Boston
lawyer, .was arrested here today at the
request of the postal authorities in
New York. He is held without bonds
for a hearing .tomorrow It is ailea
ed that Pierce sold fraudulent stocks
and bonds throug.i t;,a rij..3.
President Van
GacivingQf People
IN DEFENDING AMERICAN LIVES
"AND COMMERCE ABROAD
AN AUDIENCE OF 16,000
Had Big Crowd of Kansas Cit With
Him From the Start Many in Audi
ence Leaped to Their ' Seats rand
- Cheered...
- KansasvCHy, Mo.. Feb. 2. President
Wilson demanded tonight that steps
be begun during the present month to
back him up' in defending American
lives and commerce abroad. -His de
mand met with shouta and applause
from an audience . of 16,000 persons.
who waved American flags, leaped to
their seats and cheered. - -
Whan .thp nrpsiidnnt r.f.&a.d' nnp..kinff
he leaned forward and asked'the great
throng -to join him in singing "Amer
ica.". The band played softly, the au
dience stood, and the words of Amer
ica's national anthem, came in a glori
ous burst of Bong.
Crowd With s Him from tha Start.;
The big crowd was for the president
from the start. It waited patiently an
hour to see : him, -and cheered itself
hoarse in a three-minute demonstra
tion when he appeared. Sixteen thou,
sand heard him: 20,000 were turned
away, and 10,000 more tried to glimpse
at him as he left his hotel for the
hall. - -
. "Why, some man in Washington are
questioning r we couia get tne ouo.uuu
men (for which the government is asking,".-
he 'said at one point of his ad
dress.' '. "Would they volunteer T'
I.
(Continued on . Pag Six)
ONLY MEMBERS OF CREW v -
- OF THE"APPAM DETAINED.
245 Persons Given Liberty to Land on
,' American Soil. . - . .
Old Point Comfort, Va.; Feb. 2.
Two-hundred and forty-five persons
held prisoner by a German prize crew
on the former British passenger liner
Appam. were informed tonight that
they were at liberty to land om Amer
ican soil. More than 200 others, .in
cluding the German captors, the cap
tain and crew of the Jiner and certain
passengers alleged to belong- to the
armed forces of Great Britain, will be
held on board until the United States
government definitelr determines their
status, and that of the ship itself. -
Thi. arrangement - was reached "oh
orders from Washington after a . con
ference between representatives of the
German and British governments with
the Norfolk collector of customs, Nor
man R. Hamilton, acting as intermedi.
aryy. -.. - - - - ,
The captured liner, at- anchor in
Hampton Roads off Fortress Monroe
since she put into the' Virginia capes
Tuesday morning, will move up to
Newport News early tomorrow to dis
embark her passengers. With the
others will land G. D. Tagliaf erria. a
naturalized American of Nevada, i
only . citizen of . the . United States
aboard. : -. : .' ,, -. .
PENSIONS PAID BY
METHODIST CHURCH
$1,200,000 to Retired Minsters" or De-
. ' - pendents During 1916. .
- , . N .i m
.Chicago, Feb. 2. The ' Methodist
church paid $1,200,000 in pensions to.
retired ministers and widows and or
phans of ministers during 1915, accord
ing' to the annual report of : Dr. Jo
seph B. Hingsley, secretary -of tha
uuaro - ui conference - ciaimams, suu-(
miicea ai ine annual rneeung oi tne
board here today Fifteen million dol
lars is needed for- the pension fund.
Dr. Hingslay's rpeort eaid, and of this
amount If,, 000,000 now is in the treas
ury of the conference. . -.
Wealeyari Ready for Military Training
Boston, Feb. 2.Presldent William A.
Shanklin of Wesleyan university said
tonight that the university waa ready
to. adopt a system of military- train
ing, with credits for undergraduate
preparation to count toward a degree.
Speaking at the annual dinner of the
New England Wesleyan Alumni asso
ciation he saig that only lack of an
army instructor stood in the way of
inaugurating the plan. ; .'
GERMANS RECOGNIZE
C ' VALUE OF "SKI MEN
;
A
As the German army authorities are
ready and eaer 10 adopt every meas
ure to add to the efficiency - of - the
kaiser's force3, they have not over
looked the Bitvar.'.'te- of having, , in
Wiinter warfare, sudiers "mounted "on
Fkis. The soldier in the picture is a
German with the elongated snow run
ners lie is clad in a white uniform
to ren;Ur him inconspicuous apamst a
background of snow.
Condensed Telegrams
-
Tha Austro-Swiss border was closed
Yesterday
Year's Day.
was tha
Chinese -New
Tha Bank of England bought 65,
000 bar gold. ' ' - '. . -
Six German deserters were executed
at Zeebrugge. ,' .-. . " ......
England's conscription law becomes
effective on- March 2.
New Madrid, Mo, is two feet-under
water, following a leve bre&K. - ,
Germany is constructing a large mu
nition factory at Vise, Belgium.
Turkey will compel ' youths of 18
years- of age to serve in tha army ,t-
Louis W. Hill, eon of James J. Hill,
was nominated as mayor of St. Paul.
Thirty-four perjont war killed in
the streets of New-York during Jan
uary.., i 'j- ': - ' y--. i .:,-';!
-. Tha annual convention of the New
York State Grange opened at James
town. '..-.'. '" -, ' :' - - ':-- .. -.. -
The American steamship Omega ar
rived at La Rocheile, France, badly
damaged. ' -, ". - . , '; . -.
More than $1,000 ia being expended
on new stille at Lima, Ohio, . by the
Solar Refining Co. , '
New York had its hottest February
1 in forty years, the thermometer reg
istering 61 degrees.-
- Judge Laeomba of the." United
States Circuit Court . of Appeals at-
New York, resigned. '. .
: Articles of 'incorporation' were. filed
at Albany, N. Y, Jy the Semet Sol
vay Co, capital $10,000,000. ; ;
. A four-track railway is being con
structed between Namur and ' Mau
beuge by German engineers. ; ' , . , '
' A new well , producing dally 1.200
barrels or high grade oil, has been
struck -at Stone Bluff, Okla . i .
Gasolene tank wagon basia, was ad
vanced 2 cents a. gallon at Philadel
phia by the Atlantic Refining Co. . ;
Headquarters for tha Ford Perma
nent Peace Tribunal have been estab
lished at the Grand Hotel, Stockholm.
, Tha Italian liner Caseria arrived at
New York from Genoa and - Naples.
Two .cannon were nfounted on , her
deck.-. : -;; ' -, .
The Reading Railroad raised its em
bargo on coal at Port Reading, N. J ,
its base for export and coastwise ship
ments. ' - - ; .
Air the mines of the Anaconda Co ,
resumed operations .after havinar been
compelled to shut down- because of the
extreme cold.- : v
To handle its large war orders, the
East -Lima, Ohio) . Iron Machine Co.
will build a branch at West Lima, to
cosi.ioo,uuu. . ... ..
Output of the mines in the Cripple
Creek,- Colo, district in January
amounted to 79,794 . tons of bullion.
vaiuea at xi,zo7,b43 , ... . . .
Mills at Brockton, Mass, ; are be-
being operated night and day to fill
an order for $.000,000 pairs of shoes
i or tne xtanan army. .- - . . -
' After 18 month' idleness, operations
were resumed at the .Emporium -Iron
Works at Kaine, Pa. Employment
was given to 600 men. - - -. ,f
Oak Bluffs on Martha'a Vinavard
went for license at the town meeting
by a vote of J08 to .80 Last year the
vote wasyes.in; no 77. . - j
Secretary of Stat Laming has re
ceived complete assurances from
Austria that none of its submarines
lorpeaoea tne steamship Persia.
Tha production of wool in- the Unit
ed States during 1915 is estimated at
$288,770,000 pounds by the Bureau of
Crop Estimates at Washington. -
', - - . - - ' ;.' :
Col. Joseph H. Goulding of Wilming
ton, Vt, known in Vermont as a bank
er and designer, died at the age of 73
years. ; He served in the civil war. -.;',
.- Louis Merrion, 24 years old, was ar
rested at Boston and held for the po
lice of : Montreal for the alleged lar
ceny of diamond .rings valued at
$7,500. , 7 -.. - : .
Tha New Bedford manufacturers re
fused the demands of the cotton work
ers" labor union for a second five per
cent, advance in wages for 32,000 op
eratives. . '. .'
Scvoli Mfg. Co of Watereury,
gave the employes of .the concern,
numbering over 8,000, another bonus,
five per centfl. of their wages since
Oct, 1 of last year.' .:
Tha Japanese 'cruisers Chitoes and
Tokiwa are reported to be en route to
San Francisco-from Vladivostok, car
rying a, gold shrpment, half of which
Is destined for the United States, and
the other half for'1 London.
The civil service commission at a
meeting in Hartford, voted to with
draw from its "annual . report the
statement signed byCharles G. Mor
ris the president, in which the amend
ment to the law set-at the session of
1915 was severely ' criticized --'
1 . ' - , ... - ' "
CONFIDENCE MAN
SENT TO SING SING.
"Dr." Jules Waterbury, Widely Known
-. ; as a Swindler. : '" r .
New York,' Feb. 1. "Dr." Julea Wa
terbury, widely- known as" a "con
dence man" was today sentenced to
Sing Sing prison for a term of from
one and a half to two and a ' half
years. He pleaded guilty a week ago
to swindling a local physician out of
$200 on the promise of procuring him
membership in the Gridiron club . at
Washington.' Wanted by the police of
sev. feral cities. .Wlterbury was recentlj
arrested in Montreal, Canada, and was
brought here- ,-'' -. - -
29 KILLED IN AIR v v ,
1 J RAID ON 8ALONIK1.
Two Soldiers Among .the ' Dead
" Fourteen Parsons Injursd. ' :
London, Fab. 2, 7.07 p. m. A des
patch to the Exchange Telegraph from
Athene says that 29 persons were
killed and 14 injured in the Zeppelin
raid on Saloniki. Two ecldiera were
among those klHed. '
SEEIATE AGTi0j,0l PI!iLIPPE CiL'
Vice President F.larshall Casts Deciding Vote in Frv:r
Clarke Amendment Veto Stood 41 to 41
GRANT INDEPENDENCE
Provision is Made for Extension of Time for Granting Inci-
pendence if the President Should Deem it Advisable Until
- Congress Shall Have Had an ; Opportunity to Fur&er
Consider the Subject- President May Reserve or Ac
f quire Lands for Naval Bases and Coaling Stations Within
? " the Territory of the Philippines Five Republicans Vct
ed for the Amendment -Measure fias; Not .Yet Passed
: the House'V "';'-:v -.-:.,'"-,.' ".
Washington. Feb. 2. A' definite nol-
icy contemplating Philippine indepen
dence within four year was approved
by the senate today. Vice President
Marshall cast the deciding vote in fa
vor or the Clarke amendment to the
Philippine bill, directing the president
to withdraw American sovereignty
within a four year period. The vote.
which" followed weeks of debate, was
41 to 41.- An effort to recommit the
bill .was defeated in final action on the
nnasure. which has not yet passed the
nouse, was deferred, until tomorrow.
-"; Administration senators in support
ing the Clarke amendment maintained
that some such definite provision was
necessary to square with the inde
pendence declaration in the' Baltimore
plattorm. '. , - .? ...... ,
, . " Wilson Not Opposed to It."
- President Wilson has made no pub
lic comment on the proposed amend
ment, but senators who had discussed
It with him let it be known he was
not opposed to it. ' Chairman" Hitch
cock, of , the -Philippine committee,
opposed the amendment and was sup
ported by eleven other, democrats.
Five republicans. Senators Borah,
Clapp, Kenyon, La Follette and Works
voted for the amendment. Besides
Senator Hitchcock, democrats who op
posed It were Beckham. Lea of Ten
nessee; Lewis, Myers. O'Gorman, Phei
lan, Pomerene.' Ransden," Reed,. Sauls
bury and Walsh. - - -
- - By the terms of the amendment as
perfected provision is tnaJo for ex
tension of time '.for Rrantinr inde
pendence if the -president should -deem
it-advisable, f until congress Ehall have
ha-4. an opportunity further to con
sider the subject v k;- v ' ,
. Tha - Amendment As Adopted. -
- The amendment as adopted follows:
"The (president is hereby authorized
and -directed to withdraw and sur
render all right of possession, super
vision, Jurisdiction, control or sov
ereignty now - existing and 'exercised
by -the United States 'over the territory-
and people of the Philippines
and he shall-on -behalf of the United
States fully recognize the indepen
dence of the said Philippines as a sep
arate and self-governing nation and
acknowledge the authority and con
trol over the same of the government
instituted, by the people thereof .This
transfer pf possession, sovereignty and
J. P. MORGAN HAS r, .... .
iVi SAILED FOR EUROPE
Caused Much Surprise and Interest in
' Financial Circles.
New York, Feb1. J.i P Morgan
sailed tonight for England aboard the
steamship Rotterdam. He Was ac
companied by Benjamin Strong, gov
ernor of . the New York federal re
serve bank. Announcement that the
two men were to; visit London canned
much surprise in financial circles
today. -.- - , .
At ' the Morgan banking house no
details regarding -Mr. Morgan' trip
were- obtainable beyond the statement
that business affairs would engross his
attention while abroad. It ia said Mr
Morgan will spend at least a month in
Londoir and his stay may be extended
b-yona that time. 1-"
This will be Mr. Morgan's second
trip to England since the war began.
The first was followed by the an
nouncement that J, P. Morgan -& Co.
had been appointed '.ommeicial agents
of the British government in this
country. Soon afterwards the firm
was selected 'to act in a similar ca
pacity for the French government -
-In their capacity as financial agents
to the -two governments, Morgan and
Company have purchased or supervised
the purchase of supplies costing hun
dreds of millions of dollars. -
. Intimations that Mr. Morgan's trip
might not be unrelated tc another ex
ternal loan by the allies met with de--loo'sss
es9Usnq sjq jo suo uiojj nui
atea. It is believed, nevertheless, that
the British and . French governments
are considering the advisability of
offering another external loin. Rumor
placed the amount of the undertaking
at $250,000,000 or half that, of the five
per cent issue floated here last year.
BOILER EXPLOSION BLOWS . -
; ' .' " TUG BOAT TO PIECES.
In tha Ohio River Opposite Hunting
V v-v- ton, W. Va. '".." ;
.Huntington, W. Va, Feb. 2. The
Ram Brown, a Pittsburgh tow boat,
sank withl na few minutes after her
boilers exploded in the Ohio river op
posite this cit ytoday. . It is believed
that the few of the crew were saved.
About six survivors from the boat
reached the Ohio side of the river fol
lowing the explosion. The boat was
blown to pieces and sank immediateiy.
Most of the crew, approximately thir
ty, are believed to have perished -
BAY STATE TO REMOVE
EMBARGO ON DAIRY CATTLE
From Naw York, Rhode
i . Connecticut. .
land
and
" Boston," Feb. The embargo cn
tha shipment of ' dairy cattie into
Massachusetts . from . New York, Con
necticut and Rhode Island will be
Jifted ,pn February 7 -under an order
issued today by Dr. Lestr H. How
ard, state commissioner of animal in
dustry The embargo waa imposed In
November, 1814 on account of n out
break of the foot and mouth dieeasa.
IN TV0 TO FOUR YEAr.G
governmental control shall be com
pleted and-become absolute not less
than two years nor more than four
years from the date of the approval
of this act, under the terms and in the
manner hereinafter prescribed:
Possible Extension of Time.
"Provided, that if the president,
prior to the expiration of the said
period of fdur years, shall find that the
condition of the internal or external
affairs of said Philippines in respect
fb the stability or efficiency of thfl
proposed government thereof is such
as to warrant him in so doing, he is
hereby -further -authorized, by proc
lamation, duly made and Dublished. tn
extend the time to and including tha
date of the final adjournment of the
session of congress which shall con
vene "next after the date of the ex
piration of the said period of four
years and thus afford the congress an
opportunity in its discretion to further
consider the situation in the said
Philippines, but any such extension of
Itme by the president shall not other
wise suspend or nullify the operative
force of this act. unless the congress
shall hereafter so direct, .
President Vested With Full Powers.
"For the purpose of a complete and
prompt compliance with this direction,
the president is hereby Invested with
full power and authority to make such
orders and regulations and to enter
into such . negotiations with the au
thorities of said Philippines or others
as may be necessary to finally settle
and adjust, all property .rights and
other relations as between the United
States and the said Philippines and
cause to be acknowledged, respected
and safeguarded all of the personal
and property rights of citizens or cor
porations of the United States and of
other countries, resident or engaged
1 business in said Philippines or hav
ing, property interests therein.
May ft eta in Naval Base.
"In any such settlement or adjust
ment so made in respect to the rights
and property of the United States as
against the said Philippines the pres
ident may reserve - or acquire such
lands and -rights and privileges ap
purtenant thereto as may. In his judg
ment, be required by the United States
for naval bases and coaling sftitions
within the territory of said: Philip
pines." "',,,
KEATING. CHILD LABOR
BILL PASSES HOUSE
Bars From Interstate Commerce Pro-
ducts of Child Labor.
Washington, Feb. 2. The Keating
bill barring from interstate commerce
the products of child labor was passed
by the house today, 837 to 46 and
no wgoes to the senate. It imposes
heavy penalties . for interstate ship
ment of any commodity in whole or in
part by children1 under 16 working in
mines or quarries, -or by children un
der 14 working in mills, canenries,
workshops or manufacturing establish
ments. Where children are .employed
at night or more than eight hours, a
day. in this latter class of industries,
the minimum age is 16 instead of 14.
Opposition to the bill came lareely
from the south. Representative Webb
of North Carolina, chairman of the
house judiciary committee, urged that
it was unconstitutional and sought un
successfully to exempt the children of
widows from its operation.
Former- Speaker Cannon offered an
amendment to exempt canneries be
cause of competition with canneries
across the Canadian line, where no
restrictions on child labor apply. The
only material change, made was by
adoption of an amendment to exempt
the boys and girls canning clubs.
LISBON RIOT IOUS OVER
'- ' INCREASED COST OF FOOD
One Parson Reported Killed and Sev
eral Wounded.
- Lisbon, Feb. - 1 via Paris, Feb. t,
5.15 a. m. The rioting which began
last Saturday, on account of the in
creased price of food articles, has not
yet .been quelled, and one person was
reported killed and several wounded
today by bombs thrown by the rioters
in their conflicts with the police and
the soldiers. " 1
The minister of the Interior stated
in the senate today that the govern
ment is determined to repress all at
tempts on the part of rioters to pre
vent men from returning to work. The
senate' passed a vote of confidence in
the government. The opposition party
announced that it had not intention of
raising any obstacles to the efforts of
the government to restore and preserva
order. . - . '.
ONCE OPPOSED ROOSEVELT .
WOULD "NOV WORK FOR HIM
John M. Harlan, Chicago, Candidate
Republican' Convention Delegate.
. Chicago Feb. 2. John Maynard Har
lan, a Chicago lawyer, who in 1912
toured ''the country with J. Adam Bedo
of Minnesota in oprofit'on to the can
didacy of Colonel ltocsveit, tou.iy is
sued an announcement to the voter-i
of in.noi duclnrir.g f. r f a ft-.
date for delegate to l're r ; . ' 1 1 a-t'-T.r.!
convention a--i e-. --.. -
if r.Hr-icdr "he wii. : v . c '
for the nomination of 1 f-ipii -..-ve'.t
kb the repur'.'can, c "'.-
J.-raidtnt. -
