r m-mr fr- , Y
FINANCIAL EDITION
4m
NIGHT
EXTRA
TOVOL. H.-NO. 122
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY" JJ, 1910.
CopTBtanr. into, st -rut Pcblio Lrmbi Counnr.
PRICE ONE OEN0?
FWAR WOULD TEAR AMERICA'S
HEARTSTRINGS'
CHEERING THRONG AT ST. LOUIS
B'Danger, However, Is
Not From Within,
but From Without,"
He Asserts
Ef Great Issues Were Involved,
Where It Was Necessary to
R Defend Ourselves, We Would
Not Be at Peace"
Micro Is No Politics in National De
fense, the President uccinres as
Ho Closes Trip With Powerful Ap
peal for Preparedness
COLISEUM. St. Louis, Mo., Fob. 3.-In
. .iirrinr ni dress lot nv I'resiueni wuson
told St. Louis tlmt ho Intends tlio record
- . .. -,-! Ia,n InH In 1,n n.n "nf hah.
Or HIS Atllllllliainiiiuii i" in; ui. w ....
nine neutrality and not pretended ncu-
"It would tenr tlio heartstrings of
America to be nt war with nny of the
H peat nations of the world," he said.
The auuionce, several iuuushiiu ui whuih
.were of German linenge, npplauded tlio
declaration until the Collhcum rang.
"I am ready to mnko allowances for
both sides," tho President said. "And I
have tried to think so far as la posslblo
tifrom the point of view of tho other side,
. "I know," he added solemnly, "how my
own heart would burn ana now my iicau
would whirl If I caw my country In
danger "
In speaking of tho navy, tho President
jald that to adequately protect this coun
try's coast lines "I think our navy should
fc unconquerable."
Tho President again pointed out tho
dangers to be encountered In maintaining
this country's trndc.
"There nro cargoes of wheat, flour and
manufactures." he said, "all of which
como Into contact with tho fires abroad
all combustibles Into which sparks from
those fires may fall."
When the President nnd Mrs. "Wilson
entered the hall at 10:37 o'clock tho great
crowd rose to Its feet and cheered them
for two minutes. Mrs. Wilson wore a
handsome blnck gown and violets took
the place of her usual bouquet of orchids.
Beforo tho President was Introduced a
chorus of 1500 voices Bang "Tho Star
Spangled Banner."
r "I came Into tho Mlddlo "West to find
lomethlng and I found It," tho President
began. "I had been told that the mld-
reit was not warm for national defense.
u I know that tho neorlo hero woro
ti'true to tho Bplrlt of the country as
yinere eiee.
'Tho facts nro very easily nnd briefly
itated. America Is at neaco with all tho
iiforld, and desires tp remain so. It Is
MM: a shallow v'&K&iieBr'a fundamental
Mpeaco. Sho Is nt peace "because sho enter
tains a real friendship for nil tlio nations
of the world.
"It TrouliI tear the IienrtufrlnKa of
America to lie nt nnr nltli nny of (lie
(rrat nntloiiN of tin- tiorlil.
'Iff trfi.t l.rilM. . ln.'nl...l n.v
: - ,-.- ...- ..-.w ....v. , i u. ..v..
fVfr. ivhere It xxnn iieoeNNtirr to defend
MOtiriflvpM. i trntllil nut lin 1 1 vmnnA.
p ------- --.r - . .... , .'-
COUNTRY'S HEART SOUND.
"Tho heart of this country Is sound.
j&made up of the fundamental principles of
wnumamty. it is not gulde-d by tlio im
pulses of any man or group of men.
"No mail run lend America anywhere
Inhere America (Ioi'h not ileilre to lie
ltd." he added nnd the crowd nppluiided.
m "fin mnn need preach pence ummiK us.
We are dlsclpleH of pence nlready. nut
i am nliio n illtii'lple of domestic pence.
'(The cronil InuRhedi Mm. WlUon
?m'-"il )
The ilnnRer, however, In not from
Continued on l'aice Sir, Column l'our
PHILADELPHIA COMMENDED
AS IDEAL POWDER STORES SITE
Admiral Strauss Urges This City as
Manufacturing Centre
WASHINGTON. Feb. 3. The nresent
United States navy la not adequate to
guarantee tho protection of powder mnga
llnes alone the coast. Admiral Htrauss.
chief of naval ordnance, told tho Naval
Affairs Commltteo of the Houso today.
'It la Impracticable to put them far Inland,
however, as they must bo near the navy
T yards.
Tho Phlladelnhla yard and the Indian
i Head naval reservation, a few miles be-
How Washington, he described as Ideal
manufacturing and storing places tor
powder on account of their distance from
1 the sea,
fFire Imperils $G,000,000 Paper Plant
l Cl- TrttTKTIO XT II- T?U 1 Willi in firtft
E..-S' "" " " ". "": "".,:.
E,wfu or wooo aireuuy ucnimyeu uhu mu
:, flames beyond control, a II ro which
E started yesterday at Grand Falls, threat
ened today to consumo the W.000,000 paper
manufacturing plant of the Anglo-New-jfoundland
Development Company, con-
l trolled by the Harmsworths (Lord North-
cllffe).
THE WEATHER
At last Rnmn real tangible weather! Wa
had begun to fear that all the weather
'hereabouts had been used up and that
Philadelphia waa doomed to continue Its
existence In a weatherless state. Hut
fngw there la real evidence; it fringes the
proofs, and decorates tree and field In tha
(suburbs, and clutters the sidewalks and
latre-et croHalncrn. At last something real to
Mck about, If It's only- slush. In this part
jm me world weatner is taKen sngntiy,
4 it It were pot connected with the
IJtrloua things of life, like moneyfmaklng.
lit la not that way elsewhere. Some years
ffO when Canada had a business slump,
(there was an outcry all over that dominion
l&hen they put up the ice palace ItivMon-
i"ti. -jjon t let em Hnow it a so com up
fte," cried the Boosters. "Don't let on
ve got weather up here; it'll hurt
:lness." But here we have no such
;ri. In this temperate clime, where after
u we have pretty line days nil the year
unQ
RWa like n little
,rweather," now and
lien, (or a change.
FORECAST
StFar Philriilelnhtn and vleitiihi
Kan- tonight and Friday: colder to
P'Ptt, with lowest about 20 degrees;
Kwdtrate westerly winds.
por details see page is.
LOST AND FOTJ1CD
ijiii. ijmi .uunit black chow dor. vbtv
ky fcuilt, stand ibogt 1 lathe bjfb,
m httt y bUik cMt. U Mfl 0(h and Jef.
U bora I re ward, HIP WM. fefla. tW,
t tHUer Loit ud rDuaA 4df l'o 19
WILSON TELLS
"Danger Comes With Evcru
Turn of Events," Says Wilson
"It would tear tho heartstrings
of Amcricn to bo nt war with any
of the great nntions of tho world.
"If great issues were involved,
however, where it wns necessary
to defend ourselves, we would not
be at pence."
"No war can lead America any
where where America docs not
desire to be led."
"No man can preach peace
among us. Wo are disciples of
peace already."
"The danger, however, is not
from within, but from without
nnd that danger is con
stant nnd imminent. The danger
comes with every turn of events."
"The commander of a submarine
might commit an act which would
set tho world on fire."
"Every nation will enjoy our re
spect of their rights as long ns
they respect our rights."
"I want tho record of this Ad
ministration to be one of genuine
neutrality and not pretended neu
trality." "Either we must sit still now or
else we shall prepare so that men
of this country can take care of
their 'own government."
"There is no politics in national
defense." v
LINER APPAM
GERMAN PRIZE,
LANSING RULES
Secretary of State Fixes
Status in Accordance
' With 1828 Treaty
BRITAIN WILL PROTEST
LONDON, Feb. 3. Official an
nouncement was made today at the
Foreign Office that tho British Gov
ernment will lodge a protest if the
United States Government gives an
adverse decision as to the status of
the Appam. '
"WASHINGTON. Feb. 3.
The Appam, brought Into Norfolk by a
German commerce raiding crew. Is a, war
prize. In the odlclal view of tho United
States, Secretary Lansing announced
today.
"There Is no doubt that tho Appam Is
a Gorman prize of war. Tho question for
this Government now to decldo is what to
do with her ns such prize."
Tho Secretary of State so summed up
the status of the former British liner to
day and at tho same time accepted tho
decision of the Department Neutrality
Board concerning the vessel's status. Ho
explained that tho fact thero was an
American citizen on board made no ma
terial difference. He wns woll trented
while a prisoner nnd all of his rights wero
preserved. Secretary Lansing said he
hopes a decision regarding the final dis
position of the Appam will be reached
within 48 hours. s
Although the department ordered nil
persons on board of the Appam roleased.
Secretary Lansing said that Lieutenant
Berge, In command, had precedent for his
refusal to discharge those persons who
hnve been In tho military or naval serv
ice ot Great Britain.
Sir Cecil Spring-nice, the British Am
bassador, visited the department and
urged Secretary Lansing to direct Lieu
tenant Berge to released Immediately all
of the British subjects held on board of
tho Appam. The Secretary said that this
was Impossible under existing conditions,
and explained that ho was looking up the
legal precedentH In the case. The Ambas
sador peemed disappointed, but accepted
the; statement that everything possible
would bo done to get tho release of the
British subjects.
Vigorous and formal protest against the
expected United States decision wns
being prepared nt tho British Embassy.
Ambassador Sprlng-Tllce will demand that
this Government observe The Hague con
vention rules In dealing with the Appam.
These require that a belligerent, upon
bringing a prize ship Into a neutral -port
and when unable to hold ,her at sea or
take her to a home port, must surrender
her to her original owners,
State Department officials today said
thus far they have seen no alternative
than to observe the treaty of 182S be-
Continued on Pace SIi, Column One
UNA TRINCEA NEMICA
ASSALITAEDISTRUTTA
Gli Austriaci Battuti in Piccoli
Scontri nella Val Sugana e
Respinti a Mori
II Mlnlatero delja querra Itallano ha
pubbllcata 11 seguenta rapporto del gener
ate Cadonia circa le operazlonl sulla
fronto Italo-austrlaca;
"In Val Lagarlna (valje. dell'Adlge)
lunedl' mattlnu II nemlco rinngvo', con
l'appogglo della sua artlgUerla. 1 vanl at
tacchl contro lo nostre poalzlonl a nord
est dl ilorl. poslzlonl che sono sempre
fennamente tenute dalle nostre truppe.
"VI fcono Btatl scontri d( piccoli repartr
nellu Val Sugana, in cul 11 nemlco e
Btato sorpreso e battuto dagll itallanl
e rloacoiato dappertutto.
"Nella, zona dl Gorlzla e sul Carso si
sono avutl 1 solltl duelll dl artlgUerla. Le
nostre batterle hanno bombardato ern
cacemente una, colonna nemica che marcl
ava jda Marcdttlnl a San Martina. Uno
del nostrl repartV ha .fatto un'audaca In
curslone )n una trincea nemlca a sud
nveit dl San Martlnu e vl ha lanclato
clnquanta, bombe che hanno dlstrutto la J
trincea.
(Lesser lp la pasina le ultima e plu'
4msgftaj v44JtJ Jll guwra,- 1 uH-
CREWS OF SUBMARINE AND BRITISH
SHIP IN BLOODY DECK BATTLE
,.i Li0Nr0If ' Fc,b- 3. Survivors of the British stenmship Woodfleld,
sunk by a submarine off tho Moroccan const, arrived here today with a
story of a bloody fight with tho U-boat's crew.
The submarine, one of the newest nnd speediest of the German under
sea boats, overhauled the Woodficld after a short chase and sent out n
boarding party. The Woodfield's crew attacked the submariners as they
clambered upon tho deck nnd engaged them in a knife and pistol duel.
Tho U-boat was unable to bring her guns into play for fear of killing
her own men.
i The hand-to-hand combat on tho Woodfiold's decks lasted for three
hours, lie steamship's crow, poorly armed, were finally overcome after
eight sailors had been killed nnd 14 wounded. They were put into small
boats and pulled for the Moroccan coast.
e t. TMf , Roubles did not end when they reached land, they said. A party
ot bandit Moors noticed their apnronch and made them prisoners. They
were released after tho Woodfleld Shipping Company, of London, tho
vessels owners, paid ransom. The survivors were landed nt Plymouth
yesterday and reported to tho company's office today.
SUN ECLIPSE
j'-- - ' rn ;J
This picture, taken by an Evening Ledoeu staff photographer,
shows tho sun, veiled by a fleecy cloud, as it appeared to tho
camera at noon whop tho shadow of the moon was beginning to
pass off.
DU PONTS ASK U. S.
TO PROBE AIRSHIP
VISITS TO PLANTS
Powder Company Officials
Take Action After Ap
pearance Monday
IDENTITY A MYSTERY
Bu a Staff Correspondent
WILMINGTON. Del., Fob. 3.-An aero
plane, believed to bo the same myste
rious nocturnal prowler that has been
reDorted (lying over vnrlous places with
in tlio last month, today caused a thor
ough Investigation to be begun by tho of
ficials of tho E. I. dtt Pont de Nemours
Powder Compnny. following nn olllclal
report made today by Captain Albert J.
Parsons, of tho du Pont guard at Deep
water Point, N. J., that he saw the ma
chine hovering over tho powder plant
at that place Monday night.
The Government will bo asked to make
an Investigation. It was stated authorita
tively. Heretofore reports of aeroplanes
have been regarded more or less as com
ing from Irresponsible sources, and It Is
regarded as significant that, after two
days" Investigation by the du Pont au
thorities the officials of the company
Bhould take the matter In hand to trace
the origin of the mysterious aircraft.
Captain Parsons, In his report made
personally here today, described In detnll
how he saw the aeroplane. He was on
guard at the, Deepwater plant, which Is
opposlto Newcastle, Del, on Monday night
when about 8:30 o'clock he heard the
whir of engines overhead,
He saw outlined against tho sky In
red the lurid reflection of the great fires
of the powder works an aeroplane, di
rectly overhead. The machine was flying
comparatively low over the plant, but
Continued on Paae Four, Column Three
HEAVY SNOW BLANKET
COVERS CITY STREETS
3500 Men to Work Hard
Clear Principal Thor
oughfares to
Deep snow, tho first heayy fall of the
new year, fell early today after the rain
and sleet of- last night changed their
mind.
The controversy between tho ground
hog and the weather man on the subject
of the weather during the next six weeks
began today with a large score chalked
up for the weather man. He predicted
wintry weather In the face of the ground
hog's assertion that an early spring
would begin today and four Inches of
snow carpeted the ground this morning,
the parting gift of the baby bllxxard
that came to town last night.
Traffic on the slippery streets pro
ceeded with difficulty this morning, for In
addition to the snow a treacherous film of
Ice, the result of fall in temperature,
coated the street surface. Not enough
snow fell to Impede railway movements,
the railroads reported, although in the
suburbs the drills were measured In feet
Instead of Inches.
The WJOW that covered the olty streats
TT
Continued en Po, Four, ColsuuiiTws
oil
PHOTOGRAPHED
9 LITTLE 'REBEL'
SCHOOL CHILDREN
SEE DR. GARBER
1
Visit Superintendent to
Plead for Retention of
Their Principal
BRAVE OFFICIAL POWER
Nine little schoolchildren, representing
tho striking pupils of Fitter School, faced
Dr. John P. Garber, Superintendent of
Public Schools, till! nfternonn nnd toM
him why they thought It was wrong to
transfer their principal, William 11. tow
den, to tho Sartam School.
The Juvenile delegates hastened to the
superintendent's office In the Stock Ex
change Building, after a demonstration
by a large numbor of the children out
side the school In Germantown. The
threat that they could ho arrested for
remaining away from school, and the
presence of a stenographer to take down
every word uttered by tho Juvenile nm
baasadors, failed to shake the determina
tion of the strikers.
Another Important Incident of the con
troversy was a statemont Issued by Prin
cipal William II. Sowden, whose tranfer
caused the uprising. He declared that
for three years he received a class 2
salary, while the Fltler School wns still
In claas 1, and that when It reached class
2 he was removed and assigned to a class
1 school.
After they had expressed their feelings
In front of the school In Germantown,
the children delegated nine of their num
ber to visit thn office of the superin
tendent. When Ihey rteiched his office
they werd Informed by Mils Ethel Jngrum,
Mr. Garber's secretary, that ho was out
but would return later,
Weber Kern, known as "Pud," and
Continued on Pace l'our, Column l'our
BOMB WRECKS STEPS
OF 'LITTLE ITALY' HOME
Residents Thrown From Beds
by Explosion Police
Without Clue
j
A bomb placed on a doorstep at 749
South Warnock street exploded shortly
after midnight today with a roar that
could be heard for squares, breaking win
dows, smashing the front door of the
house and ripping a hole In the stone
step.
No one was Injured. Tho police attribute
this to the fact that the bomb was not
charged heavily enough. The entire
neighborhood was aroused and the mem
bers of u faintly asleep on the first tloor
of the house were thrown from their beds
by the force ot the explosion.
Bomb explosions n "Little Italy" have
become quite frequent In recent years and
the police have determined to stamp them
out If possible. Lieutenant tyoon and the
police of the 2d and Christian streets sta
tion are conducting an Investigation Into
the occurrence today, but thus far have
no clue.
Alt of the occupants of the house say
that Uwyvpave no ertpmles who. would be
Uke.msejoJI a bornb in, an .attempt to
''.
HOUSE ACTING
IN PEACE MOVE,
LONDON HEAR
British Assert Berlin
Asked U. S. to Take
SJ,eps to End War
WILSON SENT ENVOY
President's Representative Has
Seen Ministers and Lead
ers of Belligerents
LONDON. Ieb. .1.
Colonel E. M. House, special diplomatic
nKcnt of Piesldcnt Wilson, whoso mis
sion nhroad, It Is now generally under
stood. Is ono of penrf, came In Europe
nt tho express Invltntlon of Germany.
This Information wns obtnlned hero to
day by tho International Nous Servlcp
from a very high source.
Tho suggestion that President Wilson
send n personal envoy to tho belligerent
capitals lo sound sentiment nnd secure,
If possible, views upon which peace pro
posals might be based wns made Informal
ly to Secretary of State Lansing by Count
von Bernstorff, the (lermnn Ambassador
to tho United States, according to tho In
formant. Thero Is no good reason to doubt that
tho German penco propaganda hns been
extended to tho United State", for It Is
nn open secret thnt penco emissaries of
Germany hnvo been uctlvo In several of
tho neutral countries of Europe duiing
tho Inst six months.
Count von Uernsturff's suggestion that
nn envoy be sent nhroad to look Into the
possibilities for peace wns conveyed to
President Wilson by Sfrcretnry Lansing.
Tho American President, seeing a possible
chance for n service to humanity, decided
to net. be the outcome what It might.
Accordingly, Colonol E. M. House, tho
c6nfldant for President Wilson, was sum
moned to tho Whlto House, nnd a long
conference wob held.
CONFERENCES ARRANGED.
Colonel House ncccptcd the mission nnd
immediately tho United Stntcs Embas
sies In London, Berlin niiil Paris woro In
trusted with the task of arranging con
ferences with the vnrlous foreign minis
ters nnd other Influential members of tho
Government.
It is believed that Colonel House did
not sco Ambassador von Bernstorff -before
his departure for Europe on Decem
ber 2S last, but that all arrangements
were inado through Secretary Lansing.
After President Wilson had npproved
tho suggestion of sending nn envoy to
Europe nnd Colonel House had ncccptcd
the mtsalon It was necessary for tho Ger
man Ambassador to -transmit private
messages to the German Foreign Office
announcing tho success of his undertak
ing. -This- "had to bo -done without the
knowledge of England, ns Germany did
not want to give tho Impression that sho
was tnklng nny Initiatory stp toward
peace, because this might be construed
as weakness. England held the cublcs
nnd was In position to intercept nny wire
less messages.
However, this problem wan solved In a
simple manner. Count von Bernstorff
wns given permission to use tho private
channels of tho United States State De
partment and tho Information was thus
transmitted to Doctor Von Jagow, tho
German Foreign Minister, nnd a reply was
received In the same manner. Immediately
aftorwards tho news was given out In
Washington that Colonel Houso was go
ing abroad on an "unofficial" mission con-
Contlntird on Page l'our. Column Two
MOON CASTS SHADOW
OVER HALF SUN'S FACE;
GAZERS SLIP AND SLIDE
Afternoon Murkiness Only No
ticeable Phenomenon Here
and People Observe Thrift
Day All the Same
ZONE OF TOTAL "NIGHT"
The eclipse of the sun today pnssed
without a great denl of excitement on tho
part of tho humnns below it. Thoy fig
ured that on Thrift Day they had no time
to be looking nt something which couldn't
do them nny good. Occasionally ono saw
an Interested gazer looking through a
pair of smoked glasses, and more than
ono fell on the slippery sldewalK under
neath, breaking both his Interest and his
glasses.
The eclipse made good all right. It ar
rived at 10:11 Bharp, n little black speck
on the lower left corner or the sun, and
got larger and larger. At 22 minutes past
U o'clock It had done Its worst, and
had shaded 43-100 of the sun, nearly all
the lower half. Then it began to move
away as gradually as it had grown, and
by 12:3 It had gone. All Its progress
was from east to west.
The phenomenon, which la the first
even partial eclipse of the sun since May
28. 1900, began, as viewed from other
planets (If that be possible), with a little
dark speck In the Pacific Ocean, south
west of Lower California. It immedi
ately formed a murky pathway 200 miles
v)lda and traveled across Mexico and
the upper portion of South America and
northeast across the Atlantlo Ocean, dis
appearing again Into space off the west
coast at England,
Within these bounds there was a
total eclipse, or actual night. Among
those who enjoyed this experience are
Mexican bandits, hldalgoes, fishes In the
West Indian waters and In the deep At
lantic and mariners and perhaps German
submarine crewa off England's shores.
Philadelphia, which Is north of the path
of the eclipse, saw It from an angle.
OFF AGAIN, ON AGAIN; JIORAN
TO BOX WILLAIU), NEW REPORT
Bob McCracken, Kickard's Partner,
Says Bout WiUJteHeld March, 17
NEW TQRK, Feb. 3.-"Bob'McCrack-en,
of the- syndicate of McCracken &
Rlckard, today stated that he had signed
up Jess Willard and Frank Moran to
tight here on March 17 Ho said he se
cured the champion's consent over the
long-distance telephone.
lie declined to state where he "would
1)014 the tight. teJt said It would, be an
open-air one.
QUICK
HEIR TO TURKISH THRONE ASSASSINATED, ITALY HEARS
KOMK, Feb. 3. The Mcssngeio nsserts thnt Prince Yus3Uff, heir
to tho 'Turkish tin one, wns nssnoslnnted ns n lcsult of a plot on the
part of Envcr Pnshn nnd German lenders. It wns leported thnt he
had committed suicide.
REV. J. D. KILLIAN DIES IN HOSPITAL
.'
The Rev. J. D. Klllinn, CS yenrs old, n retired clergymnn, who
made his home nt the Nugent Home, 221 West Johnson street, died
In the Germnntown Hospltnl of pneumonia. Mr. Klllinn wns injured
by nn automobile nt Wnyne nvenue nnd Queen streets on January 27,
and contracted pneumonia later.
CITY EXEMPT FROM COMPENSATION INSURANCE
The city of Philadelphia, the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, tho PhlUv
dolphin, "Wilmington nnd Unltlmoro and tho "West Jersey nnd Scnshoro ItalU
road Companies wore exempt from tnldiiR out lnsurnnco under tho new work
men's compensation law today by the Stuto Compensation Board now In ses
sion nt Ilarrlshurc;.
SWISS ISSUE PREPAREDNESS ORDER
BERNE, Feb. 3. The Swiss Government today ordered tho Immediate In
spection of all citizens between the ages of 1G nnd 60 cnpable of bearing arms
nnd advised nil over 60 thnt they might present themselves voluntarily. Ordofru
were also Issued thnt every resident, whether Swiss or foreign, possessing arms,
must present them for Inspection. No reason was given for tho Issuance of tho
order.
KING GEORGE SIGNS CONSCRIPTION BILL
LONDON, Feb, 3. KIiir George today slc;ned the Government's conscrip
tion bill. Tho measure becomes effective on February 10.
LOSS OF BRITISH SHIP LAID TO PLOT
LONDON, Fob. 3. A dispatch from Glhrnltar nnnuunccs that tho British
steamship Chasclitll foundered In the Atlantic while bound from New York to
lliuic. The crew wns rescued, lleeati.se of the fnrt that mnny British ships
Balling from New York hnve suffered from flro or explosions It Is believed In
English maritime circles that the loss of tho Chasehlll was duo to somo enemy
agency.
REPORT OF TURK PRINCE'S SUICIDE CONFIRMED
BERLIN (via wireless to Sayvllle). Feb. 3. Constantinople dispatches to
day confirmed tho news that Prlnco Yussuf Izzeddin, heir apparent to tho
Turkish thront-, c-nmmltteil suicide yesterday because ho had been ill for soma
time. The Prince severed the arteries of his left arm In tho Zlnslrlt Kuyu
palace. ,.
58 SHIPS SUNK BY U-BOATS IN MEDITERRANEAN
LONDON, Fob. 3. German submarines have sunk C8 allied ships of an
aggregate tonnage of 21D.1G9 in the Mediterranean since tho Balkan campaign
began, according to tho German newspaper AVcserzeltung of Bremen. Tho
Cunard liner Transylvania, a troop ship of 14,000 tons, was the largest vessel
on tho list. Reports reached shipping circles several months ago of tho sinking
of the Transylvania, though tho news was not confirmed at London.
BELGIAN "KU KLUX KLAN" TERRpRIZES FOE
THE HAGUE, Feb. 3. An official of tho Belgian Government who escaped
from Brussels nnd has arrived nt The Hafttle is authority for tho statement tha'
tho German officials In Belgium nro showing great concern over tho Increasing
activities of a Belgian secret organization which In Its operations greatly re
sembles the Kuklux Klan which camo Into existence In the United States
after the Civil War. This official also denied that Brussels was fined 500,000
marks lust month by General von BIssing because Oels Deroda was slain by
shots from an unlicensed revolver. Tho offense charged, ho said, was violation
of German Jurisdiction by a Belgian Coroner's court which seized Defode'a
papers, examined them, and received the police report beforo tho German author
ities had opportunity to tnko charge of the case.
BRITISH SHIP SUNK IN FIGHT WITH U-BOAT
LONDON, Feb.' 3. The British steamship Woodfleld fought a submarine
In the Mediterranean for three hours and was sunk. Eight members of the
crew wero killed nnd 14 were wounded. Survivors of the crew have landed at
Plymouth. Somo of tho Woodfleld's crew landed on the African coast and
were taken prisoners by the Moors. They wero released when ransoms were paid.
GERMAN CHILDREN CELEBRATE ZEPPELIN RAID
GENEVA. Feb. 3. Frledrlchshafen, tho site of tho chief Zeppelin factory,
1b beflagged and en fete nnd the children of tho town have been granted two
holidays In celebration of tho great raid on tho fortress of Paris. Scores of
congratulatory telegrams have reached Count Zeppelin at Stuttgart. The gen
eral cry In Frledrlchshafen Is "London next!" and the phrase Is even chalked
on the walls. A new and powerful Zeppelin Is nearly ready for launching.
KAISER IN GOOD HEALTH; VISITS ALL FRONTS
BERLIN, Feb. 3. Denying the report published In vnrlous quarters that
the German Emperor had been trented by an American physician for a can
cerous condition of the larynx, tho Overseas News Agency characterizes It as
"a malicious attempt to Influenco foreign public opinion falsely." "Tha Emperor,"
It adds, "is traveling from ono line of battle to another, as only a healthy man
can do,"
120,000 HOUSES WRECKED BY JAVA FLOODS
LONDON, Feb. 3. Cnblo dispatches from Batavla report that floods are
continuing In central Java. Thus far 120,000 native houses have been wrecked,
a great number of cattlo drowned nnd many miles of railway destroyed. ,
U. S. CONSUL ON SHIP THAT HITS MINE
LONDON, Feb. 3. Ernest IveB, United States Consul at Frankfort, Ger
many, who is on his way home for a month's vacation, had a narrow escape
when on board the Princes Juliana, the Dutch steamship which struck a mine,
on her wny to Tilbury. Mr. Ives was In the dining saloon with a number of
other passengers when the mine exploded. The deck under their feet "waa
torn to bits, and the tables and other furniture, mingled with the dishes and
toon or tne luncneon, new in nil airecuona.
CZAR'S NEW PREMIER AGAINST SEPARATE PEACE
LONDON, Feb, 3. M. Sturmcr, the new Premier of Russia, declared in an
Interview in the Novoe Vremya, quoted by Reuter's correspondent, that his
policy would be Inspired above all else with the one Idea of bringing: the war tq
a successful Issue. " Ho Bald no proposals for a separata peace would provide a
solution of the problems which confront the nations as a result of tha world
wide conflagration, and added; "Those who speak of financial or econorolq
exhaustion of Russia appear ludicrous to me, for the Russian people cannot be
exhausted or conquered."
BRITAIN'S. BLOCKADE
LONDON, Feb. 3. Great Britain's
blockade Is expected to go forward within 10 days. The note recently pre
sented to Ambassador Page by the Foreign Office, which explained that a reply
to the American note on the detention of malls would be delayed while thq
other allied Powers, especially France, were being consulted, Is equally applicable
to the British note on the blockade policy, which Is now in the hands of tho
French Government.
JUDGE'S WIFE SUES MERCHANT FOR AUTO INJURIES
Mrs. Minnie S. Rogers, wife qt Judge Joseph P. Rogers, has brought suit
to recover 125.000 damages for injuries received last October, when her iut
moblle was sldeswiped by a machine driven by M. M. Bernard, a promlusi
merchant of Columbia. Bernard Is accused of recklessly and carelessly opiiat
lug his machine at a high rate of speed, Tho accident pojpujred, on the P1UJ
delphla pike near Pjazer. Judge Rogers said today thai jga wife was coHtta4
to her bed f of 11, weeks after tha accident. -
NEWS
REPLY NEARLY READY
reply to the American note on the British
iRb$& r
u&d
S533
