-4T
* J
, ,. ^
WEATHER. ^ %. 4 L^T _ ^ ^t_ if "From Prets to Horn*
Fair tonight and tomorrow: colder I . K M M . i ^ ^ ^ a B 1
temperature M I litt I A\t
degree*: moderate westerly winds. B ^ B^^B ^B^^B I B^B I ^BT^ U^wT B ^l^BT 1 (A.1 VV ithltl tnB\fl OUT
Temperature for the | H H 0^M B B B B B B B B B fl B ^1 B B jjidBI ?????^?
day'"lowest* 24. noon today. IJ I I B^ . I I I .III III B ,/t I ^L. I | . JZTZZI^^rmiZII^ZZZZ^ZZrr^ZZrr^rrl
? | ^r | Sworn Net Clrenlatton. Month of December,
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 19, ,??S. Dolly At erase. 74,4011 Snnday. M.032.
No. 20,217. "" WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1916.-TWENTY-TWO PAGES. ~ " ONE CENT.
ENGLAND CRIES OUT
FOR VENGEANCE ON
. GERMANIC RAIDERS
System of Reprisals as Result
of Losses From Zeppelin
* Bombs Demanded.
CENSORSHIP IS LIFTED
ON NEWS OF DAMAGE I
,
Harrowing Circumstances Surround i
Bombardment of Staffordshire
Villages.
WOMEN AND BABES HILLED
Missionary Dies. Bible in Hand.
Whole Family Wiped Out.
Bride Also Victim?Tragic
Stories From Other Sections.
LONDON'.. February 3.?The
removal bv the government of
most of the restrictions on the
publication of news about the
most recent Zeppelin air raids
over England has released a flood
of accounts of the latest visit of 1
the raiders.
The total number of casualties ,
in the raids is officially fixed as 1
follows: <
Killed?Men, 33: women, 20; |
children, 6; total, 59. t*
Injured?Men, 51; women. 48: J
children, 2; total, 101; making
the totals of killed and injured: f
Men, 84: women, 68; children, 8; 1
a total of 160. '
The sentiment in favor* of re- J
prisals in kind is increasing J
rapidly. The belief is growing
that the air raids have no military
, objects and are not aimed at any
military bases, but are intended
to be indiscriminate attacks for
the purpose of terrorizing England.
Newspapers which heretofore
were opposed to reprisals as un- I
worthy of British methods declare
in favor of carrying the
same kind of wariare into the
enemy country, if necessary, to
* protect the women and children. |
Pitiful stories of mangled
women, children and old men.
which every one hears, are kindling
fierce anger and are com- ]
mented upon by the newspapers
as the strongest deterrent to any
peace talk which the entire war
has produced.
Conan Doyle Reflects Opinion.
In the last letter the late Cord Al<erst9ne.
for many years lord chief jus- *
tice of England, wrote an appeal from 1
hia sick bed to the British people "not j
to employ baibarious methods of warfare
because the Germans followed 1
vjc'n methods." But Sir Arthur Conan j
I?oyle's recent letter containing the
nnnouncemerft of a policy of reprisals I
as the surest deterrent appears to be j
more in accord with present public
fce'.init. I
"The residents of cities approached (
by the Zeppelins Monday night, although i
warned of their danger from splinters
| and shrapnel bullets, preferred to con- <
tinue in th*> streets to taking shelter.
When it was announced that railroad
traffic was suspended the people took ?
the matter philosophically. Worrven and 1
men were equally calm, while children
continued to play in the streets, occa- c
sionally looking skyward to see j
whether th?* air invaders were visible.
Damaire in t
A part of Staffordshire was the only 1
place in which much material damage
v.:<s done. The towns in this district
were fully lighted when the Zeppelins
t approached, and the light appears to
have been of considerable assistance to
the visitors before the electricity could
be shut ofT The deaths and injuries
In this district were in many cases attended
by harrowing circumstances, as,
for instance, the killing of the woman
missionary with a Bible in her hand;
of a baby in its mother's arms as she >
was nursing it: of a whole family as
it sat around the fireplace; as also the
decapitation of a workman and the cutting
ofT of a woman's l*gs in the street
while she stood watching the airship
W orkmen's house* were blown to
atom:-;, rhurehex were destroyed, buildings
were unroofed.
Killing of Missionary.
The story of the killng of the woman
missionary is thus given in detail by
a correspondent who 1s a member of the
ame parish:
"Not far from the center of the town
4 Is the church, separated by a short distance
from the chapel, in which a mission
for women and girls was in progress.
The woman misionary, wife of a
well known vh|ir, was standing, Bible
in hand. addressing an SLiidieno* nt ><?a i
women and girls, when a bomb dropped
between the church and the mission
chapel. It made a hole n the ground
four feet deep and twelve feet In diam- I
eter, witiiin twenty teat of the chape!.
There w as a blinding flash. then all was
darkness. The woman missionary was
" struck by a huge fragment of shell and
killed instantly. Another woman and a
>oung girl were also killed on the spot.
The screams of the injured arose in the i
darkness and many persons were
trampled in the confusion and panic '
whlcn prevailed for a few moments. I
"Two clergymen were present at the 1
meeting and both were injured. Many ?
worked heroically at the task of rescue
and as fast as the sufferers were
dragged out from under the debris
they were removed to the local hospitals.
where the doctors and nurses
worked untiringly in the very center of
the danger zone. The church and the
vicarage were partly wrecked by bomb
fragments, which bored holes several
inches deep in the solid masonry."
Bride a Victim of Bomb.
From a town in Leicestershire: The
noise of Zeppelin engines was heard
on the north side of the town shortly
after the warning was received and
three minutes later the first bomb
fell in the yard of a cafe, wrecking
all the outbuildings in the neighborhood
and smashing every window for
a radius of 300 feet. A second fell in
the center of the main street, killing
a bride walking with her husband and
injuring the latter so badly that he
died in a short time. A woman shopkeeper
was also killed in a doorway
and a young woman friend also was
wounded, dying on reaching the hospital.
A third bomb fell a few minutes later
>n the opposite side of the town, wreckng
two houses, blowing in shop fronts
md killing three members of one family
vho were watching the airship near their
tome. A shopkeeper and an employe
ivere Killed in front of their shop.
Ten Deaths in Town.
Altogether there were ten deaths in the
own and a considerable number of persons
injured. There were no fires, all
he bom^s dropped being of an explosive
jharacter. w~~
From a town in Lincolnshire: A raider
passed over the town at 11 p.m.. dropping
al>out fifty bombs, for the most part
>f an incendiary character. The material
lam age done was insignificant, being conIned
to buildings of no industrial importance.
Three pedestrians were killed
md seven slightly injured.
From a towr in Norfolk: News that
?eppei'.ns were approaching reached
the city at 4:30 o'clock in the afternoon
l>efore they had yet passed the coast (
line, and it was i> o'clock the following
morning before the last of the raiders ,
left England. Norfolk sustained only
slight damage. V single large estate
was the target for several bombs, but
the only result was the destruction of
i workman's little cottage.
Towns' Activities Halted. i
From a town in Derbyshire: The 1
town was warned of the approach of (
the Zeppelins at 7 o'clock. The street <
*ars immediately stopped running, factories
closed and the town soon was in
t state of comparative darkness. I
An airship passed over the town at 8 "
p'clock without dropping missiles, but J
it a neighboring town it let loose a
arge number of bombs, the explosions *
>f which were heard twelve miles .
iway. No factories were damaged, but
vorkmen's cottages, several offices and J
i church were damaged.
At 10 o'clock the sound of the anti- J
lircraft gunfire ceased, and the people 1
supposed the raid was over, but after }
nidnight one end of the town received
Ifteen bombs, which were released in
groups of from two to six. One bomb
tilled three men, and an old lady living
n a distant section of the town suc:umbed
to heart failure. The Zeppelin
vas distinctly seen by thousands of
persons.
bahCecodebook
of the navy lost
* |i
Department Alarmed Lest It \
Fall Into Hands of a For- \
eign Power. '
DOURTS-MARTIAL ORDERED <
FOR OFFICERS TO BLAME '
Hook Disappeared From the Torpedo \
Boat Destroyer Hull, on
Pacific Coast. <
SAN' I' KANCISCO, February *
5.?A book containing the secret <
:ode of the Uritea States navy
las been lost from the torpedo
joat destroyer Hull, and, accordng
to advices received today
from Washington, the Navy Delartincnt
ha; ordered the courtnartial
at the Mare Island navy
tard of Lieut. Herbert A. Jones,
rommander of the reserve torpedo
joat flotilla and of the Hull, and
if Ensign Robert D. Kiikpatrick,
:xecutive officer, in whose joint
possession the book was.
If the book cannot be found, or its
iestruction, unread by outsiders, absotitely
demonstrated, it may be necessary,
it is said by naval officers here,
.0 provide a complete new system of
secret communication for the navv.
Naval Oncers Alarmed.
Navy officials frankly admit they are
ilarmed at the mysterious disappearance
of the battle signal book from the
iestroyer Hull of the Pacific fleet.
Admiral Winslow today reported that
all efforts to find the highly confidential
code have been unavailing, and
r.avy officers said today that It probably
would at once be replaced by another
to make useless the one which
has disappeared and which they admit
thev fear may fill into the hands of
some foreign government.
Not Code Used Abroad.
The battle signal book contains the
secret code used in war and in battle
practice in times of peace. The copy
on the Hull was in possession of Lieut.
Herbert A. Jones, commander of the
Pacific reserve torpedo flotilla, and Ensign
Robert If. Kirspatrick.
Navy officers express some satisfaction
that the battle signal book and
not the secret code which is used
when ships in foreign waters are com
municatinft with noine is tne one whlcn
disappeared. This latter code is rec- .
ognized amoag nations as the best of
its kind in the world and would be difficult
to replace. i
GERMAN SUBMARINES
ARE ACTIVE IN NORTH SEA '
HOOK OF HOLLAND. February 3.
via London. 2:13 p.m.?Continued ac- J
livlty of German submarines in the ,
North sea is evidenced by the torpedoing
of the Dutch motor vessel Artemis
near the lightship Noordhlnder. The
Artemis arrived here today leaking.
PRESIDENT WANTS
BEST NAVYFOR U. S.
Tells St. Louis It Should Be
"Greatest in the
World."
SAYS A U-BOAT CAPTAIN
MAY SET WORLD ON FIRE
I
1
Tumult of Cheering by 15.000 People
Interrupts Speech by the
Chief Executive.
J
ST. LOUIS. Mo., February 3.
?President \\ ilson. who arrived
this morning from Kansas City,
told an audience of 15,000, which
swayed with a tumult of cheering,
today that the United States
should have the greatest navy in
the world.
'T believe the navy of the
United States should be unconquerable,''
he said. "The greatest
in the world.*'
Danger From Submarines.
The President declaped that submarine
commanders abroad have instructions
ivhich for the most part conform with
international law, but that the act of one
rommander might set the world afire, including
America.
"Upon the ocean there are hundreds of
cargoes of American goods," he said.
'Cotton, grain and all the bountiful supjlies
America is sending out to the world
?and any one of those cargoes, any one
>f those ships, may be the point of conact
that will bring America into the
var."
For the first time during the tour the
^resident told how 'one set of belligerents
vas cut off from the world. He said this
sept the United States from helping them
is it would like. He made the statement
rr trying to show that the United States
vas really neutral.
At Business Men's Breakfast.
He spoke at a breakfast of the St. I
Louis Business Men's League before I
?oing to the Coliseum for his main adIress.
Gov. Major of Missouri sat next to
he President. The room was decorat;d
with American fiags. Enthusiastic
ipplause greeted the President as he
ose to speak.
"It's just as well to shed speeches
is you go," he said. "There are many
hings I would like to apfak. out now
[ am talking of national dafanae. Not
>nly is it necessary to mobilize the
nilitary forces of the nation, but also
he economic forces of the nation.
f ani not" lodkftig forward td- ws?r|
>ut to times of peace. Peoples do not
late each other, and therefore they
gill do business again together."
The President spoke of the necessity
it representing the facts of business
is they really are. He said the facts
md the truth are mightier than any .
?ther force. I
"U. S. Must Help Heal."
"America has been shy at going out i
n competition," he said. "I am ready
0 match the business of America,
tgainst that of the rest of the world."
He explained that the United States
nust keep out of the war if possible
n order to help in the "healing processes."
The President declared that such a 1
war can never come again; that it will I
lever cQine again, and that the war i
vill put forward the time of universal <
>eaee better than anything else could. *
When he spoke of his conviction that *
1 toriff board should be created the ap- i
>lause was enthusiastic. He then spoke *
>f national defense. ,
Thousands Turned Away. t
An hour before the time set for the x
Resident to speak the hall was crowd- '
jd and the jam of those outside extend- 1
?d several blocks away. The crowd at 1
he door choked the streets. Many
housands were turned away. J
Five hundred policemen and 300 Are- <
nen kept tne crowd inside in order. '
Hie Coliseum was decked out with '
)unting and streamers of green vines, 1
vhich radiated in festoons from the 1
;enter of the roof. City employes had \
i half holiday and all the schools were '
lismissed for the day. A school chorus <
>f 1,500, tucked away in a corner, sang <
lational airs.
As the President entered, the crowd <
heered wildly. The band stilled the 1
ipplause with the strains of "The Star ?
Spangled Banner." The words of the *
JOng < ?"' ?.! *= VIA v-,lul o?u IUB *
ludience caught the air. The whole 1
gathering, with countless small flags
luttering, stood and sang, the PresiIent
joining in.
Middle West for Preparedness.
The President opened with the statenent
that he had "Come seeking somehing
i" t*lc middle west and found it."
-ie said he had been told the middle west
iras against prejmredness, but did not beieve
it I
knew the people of the middle west
vere just as patriotic as the rest of the
lation." he said.
"I did not < ome out to learn how you
hought, but to tell you what was going
,n. I came out that there may be absolute
ciariflcation of the issues we are
,uw confronting.
"What is the situation? The situation
s that America is at peace with all the
vorld and wishes to remain at peace. It
s not a shallow peace; it is a genuine
ie ace. based on some of the most fundamental
things of international law.
"America is at peaoe with all the
world because she is the friend of all
he world. The friendship is genuine. We
ire the friend of all the world because
s*e are made up of all the world and
inderstand all the world.
How America Shows Friendship.
"It would tear the heartstrings of
America to be at war with any other
nation.
"We believe we can show our friendihip
for the world better by keeping out '
of this struggle than by getting into it.
L do not misread the spirit cf America.
"I have no indictment of arty form of .
government. ]
"So man can lead America anywhere
that her people do not desire to be led. 1 ,
believe it to be my duty to subordinate my (
individual feelings to the conscientious at- ,
tempt to interpret and express in these
International affairs the genuine spirit of
my fellow citizens.
"So far as America is concerned no .
niHii need go amongst us preaching j
tc^tmued on Fifteenth Page.) i
i
4 T>'000 1
"N
COMING TO CONFER
ON FOREIGN TRADE
Commercial Secretaries of
Large Cities Meet Secretary
Redfield Tomorrow.
ELABORATE PLANS MADE
FOR THEIR ENTERTAINMENT
f!< .
Two-Day Conference Will Lnd Saturday
Night With Smoker
at University Club.
Secretaries of commercial organfza:ions
in cities of more than 100,OOd
lopulation will gather here tdaforrow
norntng xor a iwo-aay conierence with
Secretary Redfield and other officials of
:he Department of Commerce regardng
commercial matters in general and
foreign trade expansion in particular.
.The Secretaries will be the guests of
he Department of Commerce head and
he officials of the department, and an
elaborate program of entertainment
ind instruction has been arranged for
hese men.
Only an hour and a half has been astigned
for conferences. From 10
>'clock unt'.l 11:30 tomorrow morning
he secretaries will assemble in the
>fflce of Secretary Redfield in the Comnerce
building, where Secretary Redleld
will have some important arilouncements
to make to them regardug
the work of the Department of
Commerce and trade expansion work
>f this branch of the government.
Then the delegates will begin a tour
>f inspection and instruction, punctutted
with entertainment features, and
rnding Saturday night with a smoker
md supper at the University Club as
he guests of Secretary Redfield and
lis corps of bureau chiefs.
Will Study the Department.
The department will be thrown open
:o these secretaries to whom the va ious
associations look as their execu;ive
representatives in trade promotion
vork. Every opportunity will be given
;hem to learn how the department
vorks, so that when they go back to
.heir home cities they will know just
?ow to approach the department on any
rade problem in which they are inerested.
The conference, so far as can be recalled,
Is the first of Its kind where
he secretaries are the personal guests
>f the officials of the department who
hemselves are financing the affair.
Much good is expected to result to
he department and to the commercial
>rganizations in the way of creating a
setter understanding as to how they
can co-opcrate in developing the comnercial
preparedness propaganda
which is to be the big subject before
business men of the United States from
low on, in view of the fact that the
present large export trade is only temporary
and brought about by big war
lemands. The idea which will be uppermost
in the minds of all will be to
levelop plans for maintaining trade
ibroad and increasing it after the inflated
war demands cease.
The Committees in Charge.
The committees which have charge of
the entertainment and tours of the
department follow:
Reception committee ? Edwin F.
Sweet, assistant secretary, chairman;
A. L. Thurman, solicitor of the department;
Dr. E. E. Pratt, chief of the bureau
of foreign and domestic commerce;
Sam I... Rogers, director of the
census ; Dr. S. W. St rat ton. director of
the bureau of standards; Dr. Hugh M.
Smith, commissioner of fisheries;
George R. Putnam, commissioner of
lighthouses; Dr. E. Dester Jones, superintendent
of the coast^and geodetic
survey: B. T. Chamberlain, eommissioner
of navigation, and George Uhler,
How I Paid Mv Wav Into
English Society"
A remarkable series of articles recounting the
actual experiences pt an American woman in buying
her way into the society of English nobility. It is
fact, not fiction. Read the first article in The Sunday
Star.
, - ?
aaasif-ssnsrJts?1.,h; 1 DUll IDDIMr Dll I I ID
Bra?nrdmatS8eista?nnt ?hief"of'the bureau of | ||||L||||||L DILL Ul
foreign and domestic commerce, chair- |
man: automobiles and entertainment at apii a *> a
FOR SENATE ACTION
ing, Dan C. Vaughn* chief of the bu- !
reau of publications, and E. T. Quigley,
assistant solicitor; trip to Mount Ver?0On^Vre?a7;V d.panvdatoe""f7o3:
Clarke Amendment Providing
hannes. disbursing office of the department:
supper and smoker at the I m- fgp ndePendenCC A SO Be*
versitv Club. Robert H. Clancy, private " rt.au uo
secretary to the assistant secretary. . r>???; j
.Did Clifford Hastings, chief of the ap- IPIQ LOnSldCrCU.
pointment division; motion pictures.
Thomas J. Fitzgerald, assislant chief .
clerk of the department, and F. M.
Shore, chief of the division of supplies. SOVEREIGNTY GUARANTEE
ASSISTANCE ASKED FOR CLAUSEL,s^IMINATED
3,000 FLOOD SUFFERERS '"JZXZZZ?u
to This Country.
Appeals for assistance for 3,000 flood
sufferers in the Mississippi valley were . ..... .. . .
made to the War Department today by 1 he Philippine bill, together With
Senator onie James and Representa- t],e Clarke amendment directing
tive Barkley of Kentucky. The senator . . .
said the people were destitute and In the 1 resident to withdraw Ameriimmediate
need of rood, clothing and j can sovereignty over the islands
shelter. He asked that these he sup- . . . . before the
plied and that the expenses Incurred Wltlllll lour VCdl . \\J. Delorc tne
he taken from an einerirencv fund. Senate t.ulnv fnr action
Acting Secretary Breckinridtte told Th amf.mim'cnt was adonte.l l>v ihe
the senator the department had no . 1 ne adopted l>> the
rikht to extend government property Seriate late yesterday, 41 to 41, \ ice
or enter into local situations until the President Marshall casting the deciding
disaster had become a national affair. vo^e As finally perfected, however, the
He said, however, that such army en- . . , . t
gineer ifflcers as were in the vicinity amendment provides for extension of time
affected had been authorized to lend for granting independence, if the Presiwhat
assistance they might without in- dent should deem it advisable, until Conearring
any expense to the govern- Kregs gha? hAve had a? opportun^y fur.
Flood conditions throughout the south ther to consider the subject,
were described to the House today by President Wilson is not opposed to the
members when that body took up con- amendment, it is said.
sideration, under a special rule, the By the terms of the Clarke amendment
resolution by Speaker Clark to create the President would be authorized to sura
standing committee on flood control, render all rights to the Philippines and
recognize an independent government inBrighter
Outlook in Arkansas. stituted by the people in not less than
? two or more than four years after apDITTLE
ROCK, Ark., February 3.? proval of the pending measure.
The rescue today of 300 negro convicts .
marooned at the state convict farm at Time Extension Provided.
Cummins, and the hundred or more Provision is made, however, that the
citizens of Gould, Ark., who were in President may extend time for withperil
throughout the night, together drawing from the islands if conditions
with continued clear, cold weather, put of internal or external affairs with re?hr:i8rt;aSThr^of,o0d0der0e?.dit,ir8,re
fe proposed BovArkansas
river passed Pine Bluff, while ernment should warrant such action,
the White river is reported falling at He might extend it until the adjournseHouTi'n
the' southeast^-n^ar^o^the ? ? ?ion of Confess in
state. order to afford Congress another op
? portuniiy to further consider the submmmmxttmtmmmmxmtmmxmtm
ject. provision making it optional for
? | the United States to retain sites for
I Ninth Circle Was coaling stations and a naval base in
t I the bowest Depth in the event c? independence was in'
I Dante's Hell. Read eluded.
| I the story of a worn- | By a vote of 49 to 31 an amendment
| JL a" who for twenty : by Senator Kenyon of Iowa was adopt|
years lived inside ed to strike from the Clarke amend|
the Ninth Circle. : ment all plans for guaranteeing the
; sovereignty of the islands, either by
| She was a German. Her hus- the United States alone or by treaties
? band was an Englishman. ? or other international agreements.
2 Chairman Hitchcock of the Philip1
There you have the setting: pine committee opposed the amendment
| for one of the most powerful and was supported by eleven other
t stories of the war that has democrats. Five republicans. Senators
2 been written. Borah, Clapp, Kenyon, Ha Follette and
Z Works, voted for the amendment.
X To tell you about it would Besides Senator Hitchcock, democrats
J spoil it. Read this story?the j who opposed it were Beckham, Lea of
X story( of the woman in the J Tennessee. Lewis. Myers, O'Gorman,
J Ninth Circle?in the next Phelan. Pomerene. Randell, Reed,
t Saulsbury and Walsh.
1 CIWnAV MAT A7IXIC i Senator Lewis of Illinois today pro*
uUMJAI 111 An tt/, I Hr. X posed an amendment to provide that
X X before independence of the Philippines
X OF THE shall be proclaimed the government of
* mitf? . IT __ 4 _ the islands as constituted shall execute
* Nil Nil AY xTAR I H perpetual treaty with the United
22 UVllI/ill 01 Jill States guaranteeing freedom of trade
2 to this nation and exemption from al|
Import tariff duties upon merchandise
from the United States.
<*
U.S. Frees 245
Captured Iin<
APPAM WAR PRIZT
MR. LANSING SAYS
Disposition of Captured Brit- I
ich I inor Romainc tn Ro
?W? ? kiMUi l lvl IIUII iu IV b?v
Determined.
ANOTHER GERMAN RAIDER I
MAY BE IN THE ATLANTIC
1
Reported That the Roon, a Large and !
Heavily Armored Crniser.
Is Abroad.
Robert Lansing. Secretary of ]
State, said today that there is no!
question as to the status of the '
Appani, under detention at
Hampton roads, as a prize.
1 Ie added that the question of
the disposition of the ship involved
further consideration of
The Hague conventions and the
Prussian-American treaty, however,
and that the refusal of Lieut.
Berg, the German naval officer ]
who brought the ship into port, j
to land British seamen who were ,
c
gun pointers on British merchantmen
will also be the subject
of further consideration. <,
Crimean War Precedent.
Formal announcement that the Ap- 1
pain is to be held as a German prize is ]
expected soon. Other developments in j
the case today included the discovery (
of a decision of Attorney General
Cushing, during the Crimean war,
when he decided there were no legal
grounds for serving a process upon the
commander of a Russian vessel which &
entered San Francisco with British I
prisoners demanding the release of the 8
prisoners; as well as the possibility that ^
a still more formidable German sea e
i raider than has been reported?the fast e
German cruiser Roon?is at large, in
the Atlantic. j G
' Sir Cecil Spring-Rice, the British am- ! t
bassador, went again to the State De- j j
partment today to ask what disposition j j
is to be made of the British subjects ^
on the Appam, who, the German captors c
contend, are in the British military t
service because they were gun point- Q
i ers on merchantmen sunk by the German
sea raider which made the Appam c
a prize. t
Held Pending Conferences.
The British authorities here contend t
there is no warrant for holding the ^
seamen, and it was understood they
were to be released with the passengers
and crews. Lieut. Berg, the German
commander, objected, 'and they n
now are being held pending further jj
conferences of officials. b
The decision of Attorney General e
Cushing was in the case of the Sitka, /\
a Russian vessel that entered the har- r<
bor of San Francisco during the Cri- ?
mean war with British prisoners "
aboard, and it has been considered by J*
the department in connection with the <
detention of the passengers Lieut. Berg J *
insists are prisoners of war. Cushing A
decided that there was no legal ground ' c
for serving a process upon the com- ?
ntander of the Sitka demanding the b
release of the prisoners.
This decision was not regarded by the P
Department as binding in the present a
instance, however, because of later ac- 11
ceptations of the principle that prisoners
could not be held indefinitely in a e
neutral port. G
r<
Opposed as a Precedent. j tl
Ambassador Spring-Rice pointed out ir
to the State Department that the Sitka
case was an incident of a half century
ago, before The Hague conventions or
the declaration of Paris, and therefore t]
could not be held a precedent in the
present situation. The British consular ti
representative at Newport News has ti
been given permission to communicate
with the English aboard the Appam,
and the information he is expected to G
collect may have some part in solving s<
the problem. li
The report that the Roon?a more 0
formidable German sea raider than has jv
been reporied?is at large in the Atlantic,
and a report that the Roon. in fact, was m
nearby and directed the operations of the cy
raider called the Moewe which sunk six w
snips ana capiureu me wuum gi
miles of the coast of Spain, promises to m
add another chapter to the yet untold Ti
story of th?,daring of German sailors. H
Heavily Armored Cruiser. Bi
th
The Roon is a fast, heavily armored flj
cruiser of nearly 10,000 tons, with
more than 18.000 horsepower, 400 feet
i long, and with both oil and coal
cr
I boilers. She was built in Kiel, in 1902, ,,
I- - . 11*
lias four tunnels ana extra nign ^ ireless
masts. She carries a Krupp armor
belt: four torpedo tubes which Rive
discharges forward, astern and broadside,
and mounts twenty-eight guns in nn
all. four 8.2 inch, ten 5.9 inch and four- Gf
teen 3.4 inch.
TH,e British embassy denies it has in- fla
formation that the Boon is at large
and was reported off the Canary Is- ini
lands, but the story that she accom- lei
panied the Moewe is accredited to Brit- iiij
ish aboard the Appam. th
If the Roon is at large, the presence an
of other German warships on the seas he
is regarded as not improbable. 1
_ th
de
To Print President's Speeches. h>
The House voted today to print as a JJJ
public document all the speeches by wl
President Wilson on his present mid- wi
die-west trip.
"Better apportion the copies, if you
want democratic members to read
them," advised Representative Mann', T
minority leader. ov
1 -
FromAppam;
era War Prize
MI'S CAPTIVES
EAGERFOR SHORE
Rough Water May Force Them
to Stay Aboard Until
Tomorrow.
CAPTURED VESSEL MOVES v
TO MOUTH OF THE JAMES
Still in Command of German Officer,
Who It Chary About
Courtesies.
NEWPORT NEWS, Va?
February 3. ? Every one
aboard the Appam, except
the prize officer and members
of the crew, will be permitted
to land whenever he
desires, it was decided late
today.
NEWPORT NEWS, Va? February
3.?With her German prize
ronimander on the bridge, the
British liner Appam moved up
rom Old Point early today and.
inchored oft' this port to dis:harge
the 245 persons on board
jiven liberty to land in the United
states.
The ship's legal -status still is
indetermined. On board Lieut.
Berg, the German officer, comnands,
but he moves his craft
>nly on orders from Washington
hrough Collector Hamilton.
Explains United States Attitude.
"We are treating her as an English '
ihip which has put into an American
>ort flying the German naval ensign
:nd under charge of a man who liyt
le is an officer of the German navy," t?
lr. Hamilton's explanation of the preant
attitude of the United States govrnment.
Some of those who were passengers
n the Appam when she was captured
?y the German raider known as the
Cewport News, but most of them will
e transferred with the crews of other
sfptured British vessel to Norfolk,
here to board a steamer to New Tork
n their way to England.
Sir E. Merewether and other British
olonial officers who have large quanities
of baggage have arranged to
lace their property in customs bond
ere and proceed directly to New York
o take the first available ship for
iome. _
Doesn't Overdo Courtesy.
Kieut. Berg still maintains his determination
to permit no one on board the
iner except those who have official
usiness. Though studiously, polite, he
xtends no undue courtesies even to
kmerican officials, and insists upon
ecognition of his absolute authority
ver the ship and her company. He is
olding more than 200 people aboard.lcluding
his own prise crew of
.venty-two. some twenty Germans,
rho were prisoners of war on the
.ppam: Capt. Harrison and the entire
rew of 155 of the Appam. and twelve,
f her passengers whom he claimed"
elotig to the British army or navy.
I'ntil the Washington government
asses upon the Herman contentions,
11 these persons will remain on the
ner.
Prince von Hatzfeldt of the Germany
inbassy at Washington and Capt.
aunt, the British naval attache,
sached here from Old Point soon after
me ship anchored to look after the invests
of their respective governments.
Claimed as War Prize.
The prince is urging his claim that
he Appam is a fair prize of war, entied
under an old Prussian-American
reaty to remain in an American port
s long as tha orize crew desires. Capt.
aunt, assisted by the British, vice conuls.
is managing the removal of Engsh
subjects and awaiting the outcome
f his embassy's demand that all those
eici on me unci uc iieumucu ?.\/ icms.
It was shortly after 9 o'clock this
orning when the Appam grot up anlor
and steamed away from Old Point,
here she had been lying under the
ms of Fort Monroe since the Gerans
brought her into Virginia water*
Liesdav. She steamed slowly uo
ampton roads, passing several Brlth
merchantmen as she neared Point
reeze. famous as the point marking
e scene of the Merrimac and Monitor
fht.
Salutations Are Ignored.
Loud cheers were exchanged by the
ews of the freighters and the Engthmen
on the Appam. The freighters
luted with three resounding blasts
their whistles.
Lieut. Berg, on the bridge, disrerded
all these courtesies of the sea
id made no response with the whistle *
his prize.
"Listen to them saluting the German
g," he said, with a smile.
Rounding Point Breeze, he turned
to James river, and in a few minutes
; go anchor near the great shipbuilrig
plant and almost within stone's
row of the German trader Arcadia
d the Austrian Budapest, which have
en laid up here since the war beg&n.
mmigration Officer Williams boarded
e vessel to pass upon the persons
siring to land. He was accompanied
British Vice Consul Kenworthy, pi>red
to guarantee transportation and
bsistence for all the British subjects
lose financial troubles might other
se prevriu m??" *?wu. v....B.
Captains Plan a Lark.
Vhile padSenRrra jtmed and fretted 1
er their inability to get oft the
x '
