Try I ~D Want Ads
Wonderful Little Business
Getters?Randolph /
I hat Vacant House
Let 1 he 7 tmcs-Dispalch Find
You a Tenant?Now
VOIil'JIK ho
jvi'.miiKit :<:i
?CLOUDY
Constitutional Defects ii
Prohibition Hill Removed
by lis Kramers.
\ WANT COMMISSIONER
ELECTED BY ASSEMBLE
But Consent to Having Him Sub
ject to Removal by Gov
ernor for Cause.
Qt KSTION VOW O.NK OF l?OI,IC\
A n( i-Salonn l.eamio Lenders Maki
Concessions ti? Views of
H( uarl.
Anu-ndni' tilM to the X.tpiohibit!oi
bill ofW<-0 ye-tfitlny I. y liov. .Tame
<"a n?ion. .1 r . .1! <}." j? 1.11 ? discussion o
the measure leror.- the Senate ii n<
1 I m ??t ?? #.?. ,.n Mnr;( 1 ;i jvi Socia
Welfare will, if adopted. material!;
!?? R?n thr- fusion tii twccn the prohihi
linn maJority and Governor Ktunrl oi
t) e question of creating the new ollb.
of Slate commissioner of moral wel
far?
The amenf)*nerits place the proposci
?i?*w ?!o;?.-ir?:t? t uii'I<t the ?lliect von
tro! of the Governor, giving htin tin
power to Hir'peii'I the eomimtsior.ei fo
mijeonduct. luKluct of duty or act
performed without authorltv of law
In cum: of Mich Htispension, the Govi.-r
nor If plven authority to nil the vacant;
until the next meeting of tin* Genera
Afsoir.ld ? , which is to d'-ii-rniiin
wh ilier the . ornmi !< tier sus-ptiii'loi
shall !>?? reinstated or permanently re
moved
cjivks <;ovi:it\oit I'nucit
TO l-'l I.I. \ tl.AM.'lK?
Th" commissioner !x rt-qui.-eil by tin
amendments to give a satisfactory bor.<
j for the faithful performance of hi;
, duties, and ;i further required to sub'
suit annually to the Governor a detaile<
report of hi' operations. to l>e rr.portei
b;- tii" liovcrnor biennially to the Gen
eral Assembly. /;i I ito case of
\.in y In t?;*? commisslonershlp dur
ing the recess of tho General Assembl>
cause,] l>y death or i eslgnat ion. tin
Governor Is authorize)) to appoint :
KUceef,tii>r, w Iiojm- term of ofllcc is t<
expire thirty da> : after tht meeting o
tin lie I r.t :;isla lure
In ofi er!;. v Hi" amendments:. I>r Can
j nop as tired tlu- committee that it hui
i liner 1 ? < ti the int? nt.ioii of the framen
of itie Mapp '"1! to infringe upon the
fjovernors ? '"institutional prerogatives
While thesc, he said. .still held the be.
lief that the bill pave tho colnml.v?
^ 1 o n e r of mora! w> If.ire no greater In
dependence tli an is enjoyed by thr
Health Commissioner ami tho chairmar
of the Com'mushloncr of l'lshcro ;s. the\
are willing to render his status stil
more clear by the incorporation of-tht
new amendments
v\ wot rovsi:\T to
vri'oi\tmi:\t itv <;o\ r.it\oi<
"The crux of the matter is providing
inn? hi not \ foi enforcing the prohibi
tion law," staitf !>r Cannon. "The ex
pe.'iei rr of Kansas i;-- .utllcieiit to shon
that projier enforcement can be :-ecure?]
onlv throush the creation of .t specia!
tli^iiartment for this purpose.
"Tlio bill provides for the election ol
the eonunivvior.er bv the (Jeneral As
fiombly. 1' seemed to those who drew
the * 1 that thi- was the proper wa>
to elect him. the Legislature belns tlu
body nearest to t5;e people. If the
General Assembly should dccirle. thai
this officer shall be eleotetl by the peo
ple. all the better. Such a plan would
rielltrht me.
"The one tlilnp to which \v? cannot
ennsenf is that he be appointed by th?
liovcrnor. To make the ??oinmissioner
cif moral welfare an appointee of the
chief executive would be to keep thr
prohibition question forever in poli
tics. With several candidates In th?
gubernatorial race, perhaps one of
them 'wet.' the question of whom the
successful candidate would make morals
commissioner would arise as a cam
paign i:-stie. and Governors would be
elected accordinc: an they stood for or
aK.'iin.Mt a rigid enforcement of the pro
hibition laws.
SAYS r.KM'OH IXTKltr.STS Wll.l.
NOT KKIOI* Ot T OI<* I'OfilTK*S
"The liquor traffic is stealthy. It is
insidious In its methods and lawless,
lio not lull yourselves in the belief that
it has Riven up tlic light in Virginia.
Virginia is too larcre a State to lose.
Too much money has been made in this
State In the liquor business to cause,
it to be abandoned lightly. Tho liquor
interests will not keep out of Virginia
polities. They will be first to take a
hand in an election in which the en
forcement of the prohibition laws be
cont?s an Issue."
Obviously designed as an emergency
-rtneession to tho objections raised by
Governor Sluart, the amendments of
fered by Dr. Cannon meet fully and
adequately so much of his objection as
related to the violation of the Consti
?v tution contemplated by the original
provisions of the bill which created a
new police arm of the government vir
tually independent of executivo con
trol.
A >110 V n M nNTS i.vsrmrco
i?v ?ovi-:ii.\oit's r.KTrr.it
In legislative circles It was assumed
that the amendments were inspired by
the publication of Governor Stuart's
positive views on the commlssionership
feature, as outlined in his letter to
former Tresidduit Hough, of the Anti
Saloon T?caK"e of Virginia, in which ho
^ (Continued >n Third Page.)
NOItl'OI.K VIA <?. * o.
Three (ii.-t ?Inll.v trnliiM leave ftlchmoild
8;00 A. AIW liooa and 4;0u 1'. il.
Tax Corporations
in Aid of Defense
"Cyclone" Davis Wants Them to
Provide for Needed Sailors
and Soldiers.
[Special to Tho Times-Dispatch.]
WASHINGTON*, February 2.?A bill
to "make money light for its country
the same ai< moit" was introduced in
tlii House to-day by "Cyclone" Davis*.
Representative at largo from Texas.
Mr. Davis Is a foe of tho {'resident's
pi eparedness program
Tho hill provides that each corpora
tion shall he forced to pay tin* cost of
maintaining one sailor for each $."0,000
of capital or surplus in excess of
000. and in time of war for each ?2f>.ooo
iji excess of J7S.OOO.
On personal incomes and family in
comes or i he joint income of man and
wtf. . Mr. Davis would ass.-s.-5 '.he cot:'.
?>f the maintenance of one soldier or
-.11 lor for each $25,000 in excess of
S *?.000 a year in time of peace. In war ,
ti:r??? n. the possessors of inconv; must
inalniaiu the llrst soldier or sailor for
each $12,000 in excess of $12.0"0.
Inheritances, dowrys and Incomes by
foreign Investment in America must
likewise pay for a private in tins army
or navy for each $-5,000 received in
excess of Jr.0,000. and in war time for
? ?a' h ?'-Ti.000 in excess of $10,000.
j Violators of the law. if it becomes
' one, Mr. Davis would punish by tre.it
ing them as deserters. In war time 1
they would be shot.
KEATING BILL PASSES
i llnr* I'roin Interslatr Commerce the
Product* or ( lillti
l.nlxir.
\V A Sll I N* c, T O N KChruary 2 ?The '
Keating bill, barring from interstate,
[commerce the products of child labor.:
was p.i! sod by the- House to-day, 337
I to and now to tiio .Senate. It.
I imposes heavy penalties for Interstate!
t shipment of any ? ommodity made in!
j whole or in pait by children under!
: sixteen working in mines or quarries
, c-r by children under fourteen working
in mills, tanneries. workshop-* or mat.u-'
; fucturing establishments. Where chll-1
] dren are employed at night, or more,
! than eljrht hours a day. In this latter ;
class of industries, the minimum a?-e;
, is sixteen instead of fourteen.
The only maVrlal change made to ?
the measure was by the adoption of
the amendment to exclude the boys' andj
t-tris' canning clubs.
MARSHALL'BREAKS TIE
Clnrlir \ ma-ml men I ?l brlf-tiiivrrnmriit
Illll Pu!?*oh Srnatr lijr One
Vote. - s
WASHl.VGTON, February 2.? By the!
! hare majority of one vote?and that1
?cast by Vice-President Marshall ? the
Senate this afternoon passed the Clarke
'amendment to the Philippine self-gov
ernment bill, granting independence to
.tho Islands within nor less than two'
years nor more than four. The count
'on the first ballot stootf i! to 41. and'
the Vive-President c.ist his vote with!
; 'he affirmative. Before passage, how
ever, the proposal of Senator Kenyan !
; to strlko from tho bill all references;
j to any guarantee of the sovereignty!
of the islands on the part of the I'nitedj
State* was adopted.
EIGHT OF CREW KILLED
llrltl^li Steamer Slink. \tfter l-'iglitiiig
Submarine for Three Hours in
the Mediterranean.
!
' [Special fable to The Times-Dispatch.]
I.ONDON", February ?The I'.ritisli
', steamship Woodfleld fought a stlbma
- ? rlne in the Mediterra ru-nn f'?r three
' hours, ami was finally sunk. Kicht
i members of tho lighting crew were
? killed and fourteen were wounded.
? Survivors of the crew arrived to-day at
Plymouth.
Some of Hie crow who escaped from
|j the Woodfiold landed off the African
! coast, and were taken prisoner by the
Moors. They were not released by the
Moors- until ransoms had been paid for
' I t hem.
CREW QUITS SINKING SHIP
1 Men of the Ttilcntii llnrti ltescne?l lir
\ onmoI Willi \\ liieli Collision
Oeeurred.
' N'KW VOIJIC. I'ebruary 2.?The crew
! of the steamship Takata Maru has been
saved, but the ship has been abandoned
Jin a sinking condition, according to a
| wireless message from Captain Moses
received to-night by the Anchor Unc
officials here.
Captain Moses's message stated that
he and his men had been removed safe
j ly to tlio steamer Silver Shell, with
which the Takata Maru was in colli
sion yesterday. Tho Silver Shell, he
said, was proceeding to tho Knglish
Channel.
ACCUSES VON PAPEN
Allen lOiiemy Detained in I.ondon Snys
Itccnllctl Attache I'lodcil Dextriif
tiiin of Wellnnd Cnnnl.
IiONDON'. February 2.?According to
a statement made by the authorities
here to-day, Bridgman Taylor, detained
here on tho charge of having failed to
register as an aljen enemy, has made
a confession to the effect that Captain
Franz von Pa pen. recalled German
military attache at Washington, organ
ised the plan for blowing up the Wel
latid Canal.
TURKISH HEIR ENDS LIFE
Crown Prince YtiHHof ly./.edln Commit*
Suicide. Ill Ilenltli flclng
(iivrit ii* Itenson.
I.OXDOM, February 2.?The suicide
of Yussof Izzedin, heir apparent to the
Turkish throne, is reported in a dis
patch received by Pouter's from Con
stantinople by way of Berlin.
The message says the crown prince
ended his life by cutting arteries. In nia
jialace at 7 o'clock yesterday morning.
Ill health is given as tho reason.
.4 -A ... . LI /??- . . .v/.'.v
; Wants Steps Begun During Pres
ent Month to Back
Him Up.
EXCEEDS PREVIOUS EFFORTS
|
I Asserts Right of Americans to
Travel Abroad and to Sell
Their Products.
KANSAS CITY. MO.. February " ?
, President Wilson demanded to-night
that steps be bfcnii during the pte-ent
:n<iiitii to hack hint ut> in d- fondinir
Amerlcan lives iiml commerce ai>roa>l.
His demand met with shouts ;ir-1 ap
plausc from an audience <-f 1 ie-r
? .-oiis. who w.'ivci] American flairs, baped
; to their seats ami cheered.
When the President ceased speaking
| lie leaned forward and asked the great
| Muong lo join him in sinning
"America." The liaml played softly.
! the audience stdod, an'l the words of
the patriotic anthem came in a irlorious
1 hurst of fon};.
Tno lilti crowd was for the President
from th<- start. It waited patiently ait
j hour to soo him. and cheered its* If
jhoarse in a thrce-minut" demonstra
! Mon when he appeared. Sixteen thou
sand h'-artl him: "n,0'?o were turned
.iv.'av, and 1 000 :ri?>:?? ? tr:< il t>. :oe hint
as he 3eft his hotel for the hall.
"Why, some men in Washington are
questioning if we could g-??t the ."00.000
1 for which the povi'rnmei;t i-- asking.''
| h?* said at ono point of his address
"Would they volunteer
A man in the far end of the hail
shouted, "Vei." and others echoed f.li-J
word until the hall was in a turmoil.
Til mi.i,ion ijy k.y i* Kit 11-:\< i;s
OF THKSK I. A ST ri:\v I)US
"Why, F believe," the President said
as the tumult died, "you could raise the
r,oo.ooo men in almost any State. I be
lieve you could yet 5.000 men rishf
here in this audience. 1 have been
thrilled by the experiences of these
last few days, and f will ?o home to
Washington and smile at the gentlemen
who say the L'nited States is not
awa ke."
"Those gallant men who sit on the
bill in Washington and make our laws
are going to deliver the goods"?-the
crowd cheered?"don't misunderstand
me. they are going to deliver tlie goods
because you want the nood.s delivered.
"1 have come to ask you what ia
back of me in this task of preserving
at once peace and your honor," the
President said. "The Judge on the
bench has the law back of him with
its bailiffs, sheriffs, national guards
men and the l'nited States Army, but
if you ignore in some foreign capital
what the I'resident urges as the rights
of the people and government of the
l'nited States, what i= there back of it?
"It is necessary that 1 should come
and ask you this question, because 1
don't know how long the mere word
and insistence of your government will
prevail to maintain your honor and
the dignity and power of the nation.
"There may come a time--! pray God
it may never come, but it may, in spite
of everything we can do?upon us when
1 shall have to ask, '1 have said my say;
who stands back of it?' Where is that
force bv which the right and majesty
of the United States are to be vindi
cated and asserted?"
Vl TIO.Y Mini i.ii hi; iii. ( \
WITHIN I* It KM-: NT .MONTH
The President declared the need
was immediate, and that action should
he begun within the present month.
"1 assure you there is not a day to
be lost," he said. "Xot because there
is any special crisis, but because 1 do
not know twenty-four hours ahead
what will happen.
"The future does not depend upon
us. but upon commanders of ships and
of submarines and upon blockades and
upon many other men. big and little."
The President presented a warning
that most of the munition factories of
the Untied Slates were on the Atlantic
seaboard, and that, therefore, the na
tion must be ready to repel the first
attack in order to avoid disaster. The
present army, the President said, was
so small that ho did not even have
enough soldiers to station along the
Mexican border to prevent bandits from
crossing the line.
"f have even felt," he said, "like ask - j
ing Congress lo encourage the recruit-j
ing of Texas Hangers."
"We arc witnessing a cntacy'.stn, anil!
Hod only knows what the issue shall!
be." was the way he prefaced his eon-;
elusion, in which he asked his audience!
to keep cool, but to uphold ihis jtnlg- j
nient in his demands for an increased
national defense.
MAY IIAYK TO I Si: KOIK.'K
TO \ IMllt'ATK ItKiKTS
TOPEKA. KAN'S., February 2.?!
President Wilson to-day asserted tlvo j
right of Americans to travel aboard!
and their right to send food, manufac-j
tured goods and cotton to the popula
tions of noutrals "in open markets")
and "wherever the conditions of war'
make it possible to do so under the j
ordinary rules of international law."
"It may be necessary to use the force!
nf the United States to vindicate thej
rights of American citizens to enjoy!
the protection of international law," lie!
rleclared emphatically in a speech here, j
lie declared that the people of Kansas
lire preparing that force for use
When the President arrived in. Topeka '
the applause which greeted hint was!
scattering.
When he left Topeka thousands
?oared a friendly farewal 1;
"There is nothing you would be!
julckcr lo blame me for than neglect
ing to safeguard the rights of Ameri
?ans, no matter wherever they might
le in the world," said the President.
?They are perfectly, clearly marked
?ights, guaranteed by international law,
which every American is entitled to
>nJoy, and America is not going to
(Continued on Second Pago.)
: COUNCIL RETURNS
BILL TO ASSEMBLY
Accedes lo Request of Civic As
sociation Not to Change
Charter Measure.
TWO BRANCHES UNANIMOUS
Passage Through Legislature Is
; Expected in Few Days With
out Opposition.
r:% unanimous vote, both bran- ??|
; the City Council Inst night a-ti
the request of the Civic Asso.-iatior
. Thai ?};?? charter-commission bill tv<\v
pending- before the General A?semhl\
j he allowed to stand as it was Intro
?111<-<??? 1. Senators Cannon ;m>l Wenden
J bur;: will be so informed, ami the pass
! of the bill within the next few
'day.v is anticipated.
I'. provides. In bric-f. that when
per cent of the electorate petitions. at
order may be entered calling for th*
, '-lection by the people of a special com
mission to draw up a n"w charter f<-.;
? C.e i-ity. The charier, when s-o drawn
is t<> he submitted to a vote of the peo.
pl'\ ami if adopted by a majority ol
j Those voting, will be transmitted tr
i the next session of the General Assem
! Idy with a request for its adoption, tin
j proceeding be:rut independent of tin
| City Council.
veral days aco City Attorney Pol
i lard. in a letter lo the l'tchmond Sena
( tor." held that to be constitutional thf
l>il) should b?- aiin nded so us to require
' charter when drawn to be approve*;
( by a majotity of the qualified voters ol
> the city?not merely by a majority ni
I 1 ho voting in the election. On thi?
? point the Senators returned tti?? bill t<
the '"itj" Council for instructions.
ritoiuruTi\ i: im:<h iiikmkxt.
ASSOC l\TIOV l OXTKMIs
M ?-'! dhan; i:. Meredith. cotinsel for
? the ?*iv|i Asso< iation. disagreed with
?bo <"uy Attot ney as to the con?truc
- Tf>?rs of the State Constitution bearing
on this question, and on his advice the
Civi>? Association, which has stood back
of the movement for charter reform,
asked that the bill be passed as orig
inally introduced.
A requirement of a majority of the
electorate, it was pointed out. was pro
hibitive. as; with 14.000 qualified voters
1 in the city, not more than half of that
number usually go to the polls. It
? would be possible, therefore, it was
shown, for the new charter to receive
] every vote cast and still not have n
j majority of the qualified voters ol
the city.
The charter-commission bill which is
i now before the State Senate is on
: tirely independent of the charter
j amendments recommended by the City
Council, abolishing the Hoard of Pollco
Commissioners and placing that depart
! ment under the Mayor, and abolishing
l the Board of Health and placing that
department under t lie Administrative
Hoard. This bill has passed the Mouse
of Delegates. is now pending on the
, Senate calendar, and will go t?? the
Governor within a few days. It will
take effect ninety days after the ad
; journment of the General Assembly.
; IlKUl IKIOS FI-:\V MIVITKS
roll rorvcn. to act
j City Attorney I'ollard was present
! at the meeting of the two branches of
| the Council la; t night, which followed
?each other in < j i: i ? * U succession, but
j took no part In the proceedings. It. is
j understood that, while Mr. I'ollard does
. not recede from his position as a legal
! proposition, he accedes to the request
j of the Civic Association that the bill
be passed for what. !t may be. worth,
rather than delay the whole matter of
1 charter reform until the Constitution
| can be again amended, a process which
1 would require several years.
j The Board of Aldermen met at S
: o'clock and the Common Council at
j S:30. 1-Jacli body was in session only
j a few minutes, as there was no debate
j and no division.
I A resolution, offered ;:t. the instance
i of Councilmen Iladdon and Kngltsh.
t provides for an additional charter
! amendment giving life tenure to tnent
j hers of the l-'ite Department. The
. pending charter amendments give life
I tenure to policemen, who have hereto
! fore been elected each three years, and
it was stated that it was due to over
sight that the firemen were not in
cluded at that time.
WANTS HAMMOND INVENTION
Wnr Department A*k? Coiiarex* to .Ap
propriate .SI?ST,ll?0 for I'tirchnme of
\\ Irelc.sv Torpedo Control.
I Special to The Times-Dispatch.]
\VASH1NGTON.February ".?The War
Department has asked Congress to pur
chase the Invention of .lohn Mays Ham
mond, .Tr.. for wireless control of tor
pedoes for $?S7.00" Congress last year
failed to appropriate the money for
the same purpose, but Mr. Hammond
refused to negotiate with foreign gov
ernments.
A Joint board of the army and navy,
consisting of Generals Weaver and
Crozier, and Admirals Hensou and
Strauss, and Captain \\". II. G. Billiard,
held a meeting- to-day and considered
plans for putting the proposed torpedo
control iti service.
Confidence is felt that the appropria
tion will be provided. Itepresontative
Swager Shcrle.v, of the Committee on
Appropriations, is expected to make a
favorable report on the recommenda
tion to purchase the torpedo-wireless
direotor.
SHOCK AT SCHENECTADY
llKtinel earthquake Tremor Shakes
I foil Hex and Throws Many Per
sons Out of lleil.
SCI I F.N'teCTADY, X. V., February 2?
A distinct earthquake shock was felt
here at 11:25 to-night. Iteports from
all .sections of the county showed
houses were shaken, windows n4-.1l
dishes smashed and persons thrown
out of bed.
jLINER APPAM HF.lT)
TO BE PRIZE OF WAR
Little Fighting on Any Battle Front,
With No Noteworthy Achievements
Till'*. Iit'lirf prevail* in olllcial
circle* in Wnslilnutnii Unit the
MiiIp Department >>111 declare the
llriiisli *tcamcr A|i|Kl>ii ti t.ermun
prize. Pending; formal dcci*inti.
linui'\rr, tin- captiircd Mtctiiiier will
lie held hy tilt- American nil t hnrit ic?.
with tlie prize cruv ami captain timl
t-rew of tlic liiirr mill certain lit' the
p:iM.<irti|;erK nrr alleged to lie
Ioiik ti> tin* armcil force* of (-resit
Itritiiin on litttiril. IV rin l*.sli?ii Imn
been iciven lij" tin* Kiiveriiment for
tlie "15 other per*on* on hoard to
111 ml nt \enpurt \rw*.
There i* *earcely any IIu In hit on
liny of the hnttlc front*, except
artillery eUKUKementK, mid no note
worthy achievement* luive lieen re
eoriieil.
tin tin- Itu**inu front, lleriln
claim* the defeat of n hlroiiK Kmm
e*Iiiii foree between the Stoehnd mid
*i|ir Hlvcri, while \ iennn reports
tile lor <*ti Mil liilrtit* III of the Hii*
siiint Iroin their ad>iineed trenche*
near I M-lee/.ko. In ilait (.alb-ia. ilnr
iiiH milling operation*. In linnd-to
h ii ml liciitiiiK on tin* I ill ili I.ana
xlope the XiiHtrlan* report the enp
tnre and ilest met Ion of Italian Niip.H,
anil iiInii the i'cpul:ie of Itnlian in
fantry attack* in tlie Siieniin Valley.
Home. Iiimrter, credit* the ItalitlliH
with tlie \ ictory in tlie latter re
gion.
t oneenlrntiiiii of InrKe ntimiier.H of
tierimiiiM, Unitarian* and Turku
ii I on f; Hie (.reek frontier in taken In
\tiicii* to iiienn iiint nil attack by
the 'I'entoni and their nilleN i? noun
to lie mailt* on Saloniki.
tiri-eee mill lloiimiinia have Hifciied
a itnni neutrality pnet. nccoril iiif; to
a Home di.xpateh.
Prisoners on Appam
At Liberty to Leave
German Prize Vessel
c
A11 Except Liner'sCreu) and
"Enemy Forces" Will
Land To-Day on
American Soil.
Ol.D POINT COMFORT. V.V. Feb
ruary 2.?Two hundred and forty-five
persons, held prisoner by u German
prize crew on the former British pas
senger liner Appam, were informed to
night that they were at liberty to hind
on American soil. More than 200
| others aboard, including the German
1 raptors, the captain and crew of the
| liner and certain passengers aliened to
belong to the armed forces of Great
Britain. will be held on board until
! the United States government definitely
i determines their status and that of the
I ship itself.
; This arrangement was reached on
i orders from Washington at a confer
| end' hctweoii representatives of the
j German and Fnglish governments on
the Old Point Comfort wharf with the
American collector. Norman K. Hamil
ton. acting as intermediary.
1IOVK l"?? TO NKWPOBT XHWS
Tt? imskmmaiik I*ASSKXGKIIS
The captured liner, which has swung
at anchor in ilatnpton Boads off Fort
.Monroe since she put into the Virginia
rapes on Tuesday morning, will move
tip to Newport News early to-morrow
to disembark her passengers. With
I the others will land G. A. Tagllaferri,
j si naturalized American citizen, of
] Nevada, the only citizen of the United
j.States aboard. Tagliaferrt, who. al -
! though carrying his citizenship papers,
had not made Ills Identity known, was
discovered to-day by the immigration
ollloer.
Lieutenant Berg, the German re- j
servist. commanding the prize crew. I
j still asserts and maintains full nu- |
| thority on board the liner, but be i? i
'acting under orders from the United!
? States government through Collector I
1 Hamilton, lie has agreed to move ihe |
j ship to Newport News and hold her i
j there pending further developments. ;
After the conference on the wharf. ,
i the British naval attache told Collector!
Hamilton that those aboard who were
free to depart still had some uncer
tainty about their right to go He pre
vailed upon Mr. Hamilton to return tot
i the ship and make the same statement
Ihe had made at the conference.
The. passengers were assembled in |
the dining saloon, ami Sir lidward j
Merewether introduced Mr. Hamilton, j
The latter then explained that all those i
aboard were free to leave except the :
German prize crew, the crew of the;
Appam and -the twelve passengers!
whom the Germans contend have lJrit- 1
ish military connections.
HAMILTON OIVKS A NSW Tilt
TO I.IKt'TF.NA NT IIKitU '
A passenger, who spoke as the repre- j
(tentative of these twelve men, asked ,
Collector Hamilton whether they would j
hflvo the protection of the United j
States government while the ship was I
l within American territorial waters,
i Lieutenant Berg objected to the pas- i
j senger using the term "American pro- 1
j lection," reminding him that he was
j aboard a ship tlylng the German tla>;. i
> which was equivalent to being on Get-- ;
j man soil.
The. collector interceded for Hie j
' passenger. j
I "You have sought asylum in a port'
j of the United States," said Mr. liamll-1
ton, addressing Lieutenant Berg. "While!
you are in these waters you will bo J
j afforded protection, su'd all the others
will be given similar protection."
The passengers expressed their np-i
proval of tho collector's stand by loud,
applause.
"Very well," returned Lieutenant'
llerg.
Mr. Hamilton explained that his In-j
Rtrtictlons had been to release every-,
body aboard except members of the
prize crew, but slncV Lieutenant lierg
had raised the point that, the members
of the Appaui'u cruw should be detained[
I hecauso they hod resisted ?t*.i?tui-o. and
jalso the twelve nlli'^cd military mem
i here. they would be kept aboard until
| the State Department had passed on
I this question.
i:\<;i,isiimi:\ iiitot ?;iiT akiioiii:
TO AltltWliK I'OH I.AM)r\t;
Immediately after to-night's confer
| em-c <ni the wharf a selected group of
| Englishmen, including Sir Edward
j Merewether. Frederick Seton James,
Francis Charles Fuller, Dr. F. E. Rice
jand the masters of the six British ves
sels captured by the raider which took
I the Appain and the Appani's purser,
were brought ashore to aid in perfect
ing arrangements for the landing <if the
| others on board. .Mr. James remained
I at an Old Point hotel, hut the rest
of the party returned to spend one
more night aboard the Appam.
Iteports agree that all the prisoners
, ore accorded the best treatment pos
sible by the prize crew under the cir
cumstances. Food and water worn
(short during the last few days of the
i long voyage across the Atlantic from
j the Spanish const, bin the passengers
say they had the same faro as their
captors, and had no complaint to make.
Versions of the identity of the Ger
man raider which captured the Appam
| and the other craft still differ. Prince
, von Ilatzfeldt, of the Herman embassy
l at Washington, asserts that she is the
| derman cruiser Moewe. built in l!U3 or
!1!'H for the imperial navy, and com
manded by Captain Count Pohna. All
of the captured Hrltlsh skippers agree,
however, that the raider is the con
verted merchantman Ponga, of about
?'.MO tons, probably completed a few
months ago. mounting six masked guns
of near six-inch caliber, and having
two torpedo tubes. The Englishmen!
believe that she was fitted out recently
?0 a commerce destroyer and slipped
out. to the high seas from the German
naval base at tho Kiel Canal shortly
before she began her career off the]
coast of Spain by capturing the steamer
Farringfold on January It.
I \SISTS IT IS M>T <>I.I>
VWAI. SIIII' MOI'.W i:
"They may caii her what they please," j
said Mr. James to night, "hut I have
dined aboard the obi naval ship Moowe,
and she was only a tiOO-tnti ship. Maybe I
they are railing her the Moewe now." j
Captain David Unrton, of the steam
ship ''orbridge, the second prize taken :
by the raider, was a prisoner aboard
her before he was transferred with his.
crew to the Appam. He says the Ger
man is a brand-new ship built for the
fruit trade, with her decks strength-'
eneil to carry a battery that would do
credit to a tirst-class naval commerce;
destroyer.
"Some of her plates inside had not
even been placed when | saw her." Cap-'
tain liarton said. "She is a trim, fast '
boat, with a single funnel, ami has hor !
hold fitted for carrying fruit. Her guns, \
six of them, probably are ,Y7 inch.*
bore. Four of them are mounted for
ward. masked by a collapsible steel
forecastle, which fails away when the:
ship gets within range of her prey.!
Two others are aft, one on the poop, j
and both placed that they are not,
readily observed.
Although I was contlriod below decks
din ing most of my stay on board. I \
was given considerable liberty', and!
managed to make a rather complete!
Inspection. One plate bore tho name)
Ponga, engraved, and several of us
saw the .sitme name 011 papers In the
commander's cabin.
I'ltlMOMCKS SAW I.ittmo
OK WHAT IIAI'IMCM-:!)
1
1 was on the boat beg inning the!
night of January 11. my ship having i
been captured a few hours after the}
raider began her work by taking the I
Farrltigford. The ship was manned by
n crew of several hundred men, many
i>f whom had *S. M. S. Moewe' 011 their
bats: others had \S. M. s. Paw,' and.
in fact, there were half a dozen dif
ferent names. Whenever the German
iCoutiuucd on Socond i'age. X 1
o
I REAL ISSUE NOW
| IS DISPOSITION ?
OF BRITISH SHIP
i
State Department Inclined
to Belief That It Belongs
to Its German Captors.
THE HAGUE CONVENTION
DOES NOT GOVERN CASE
Terms of Ancient Prussian
American Treaty Likely
to Be Observed.
hki.i) nr;iiE pending decision
: If Vessel Is Awarded to Germany It
| Probably Will He Sequestered
in Amcricun Waters.
I W AsHl.VGTO.V February 2?Indica
tions that the British passenger liner
| Appam, brought into Hampton Koads
by a Germa 11 priz? crew, will be held
' I'V the United States to be a German
jui/.e of war. And not an auxiliary
? cruiser, were given to-night in bii;h
I otliolal quarters.
j The neutrality boar.l. which advises
the State Department on such ques
j lions, decided to-day that Hie ship was
ja Prize. An announcement to that
i cfrect was made, but was recalled, pre- 1
sumably because the State Department
lias not acted.
U"II,I, HOI.n THAT I'll 17.10
iu:i,?\(;s TO (JKitMA >'S
i The real point to be decided is
j whether the Appnm shall remain in
. possession of the prize crew under the
?terms of the Prussian-American treaty
or shall be returned to her Rritioh
owners under The. Hague convention.
, Indications were Riven that the State
j Department will hold that the prize
I belongs to Germany. ~ '""
J fount von HeriistorfT, the German
ambassador, in a formal note to Secre
tary Lansing, pave notice that tho
j Appnm cumc into Hampton Roads under
ftho treaty which guarantees her to her
! captors. sir Cecil Spring-Rice, tho
| Hrltlsh ambassador, asked that tho
>hlp be returned to her Hritlsh owners
;as a prize recovered under The Hague
1 convention.
| _( 1,10 "ague convention, tinder article
j-1. provides for the internment of the
crew and ihe surrender of the ship,
but thr Stato Department officials are
doubtful that It can be applied to the
case of the Appnm, first, because tho
Prussian-American treaty is believed to
binding, and, second, bccauao Great
, l!r,tai" ?siPtied. but never ratified, this
.particular Hague convention.
j Until the status of the ship Is decided
jit will remain in custody of the Nor
I folk customs authorities, and If turned
jovcr to Germany, may be kept in port
! or sent to sea, as the German govem
i mcnt chooses.
| CLAOIKT) nv VKlTHRn
I TO BK XAVAI, Arxn.IAnT
in?!LUaS, rf>,Prardprt as *?irnlflcant that
j n Ither the Hrltlsh nor tho German au
; thorities contended that tho Appam w?s
Stn^r.1 aUf|iHa,y- tho United
tin ureUoved of deciding' a ques
ch officials feared would be
come ono of tho most troublesome com
ple.xitics of tho war. As both govern
ments concede she is a prize, nothing
roma.ns to bo decided except her dis
|>osl! (on.
Ilio State Department to-dnv ro
qnested the customs authorities to land
'' . '''^engers and noncombatanta.
Iheir case now goes to the immigra
tion authorities. Foreign consuls will
rate for their own nationals who aro
indigent. Those who can afford to do
so are free to go on to Europe. Those
?ho wish to remain in the United States
must comply with tho usual immlgra
"on regulations. Any Germans who
elect to return to Germany and can
find ways to do so probablv will
ve to be cared for bv tho govern
ment at some immigrant station.
?\sr,n o.\ iM'omi.vnm
i-'iiom i.iki'Ti<:\a\t nr.rm
Count von "ernstorffs communication
Infrip "f' "> '-ansing was based upon
en.nTo "1 ' " t,,!?-ram fr?"> lieu
tenant Herg, commander of the Appam
It was also stated in the telegram that
">e Appnm had resisted before being
captured, and that she had aboard a
military transport" of enemy subjects.
t was believed here that lieutenant
!' referred to gun pointers removed
rrom Hritisb ships destroyed by the
captor of the Appam.
D was Indicated at the German em
l.i.sj that the question of whether the
intpd states should be asked to in
ten, the "military transport" until tho
id of the war was being considered.
L *-'Y ?? 81,111 ,l,su c?ynt vol> Bern
? ,ft ,,u>l advised the government of
toe circumstances surrounding the ar
rival of the Appnm, and was waiting
f?-i complete instructions before pro
ceeding further.
l ormal announcement of the State
untPn7,TnHS <ioci}Jff'n ma> withheld
until It Is finally determined what dis
position is to bo made of the vessel.
The present intention of tho State
Department, as announced semiofficially
to-night, is t0 disregard The Hague
treaties altogether in disposing of the
case, and to apply the existing Prun
sinn treaty. This will recognize tho
German owrnership-of the App??,.
, i
-v im
