THE iSIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
The Arizona
Republican,
Full
Leased Wire
A. P. Report
The Sun
Always Shinea
Finest
Winter Climate
in the World
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAH
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MOUSING, FEBRUARY 3, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVI. NO. 2G0
UWTULOT
TO i lit Fl 111
FOR REPAIRS
Plans Arc thit' Made bv
San Dicfro Officials to Se
cure Money Needed to Re
pair Damage Done by the
Recent Floods.
MAY AMEND
YEARLY BUDGET
This Amendment Will Be
Framed as Soon as Af
fected Dcnnrtnieiits lf;ivi
ime 10 i-repare r.su-
JiKin-a in illlimill. I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire j passenger liner Appam were in
SAN DIEGO, Feb. 2. Plans were folmed tonight that they were at lib
hting male today by city officials to ertv to ,and on American soil. .More
recure funds with which to repair thi1n 200 others, including the Ger
damage done by the floods. With mun captors, the raptain and crew ;
heavy expenditures imposed on al- t,le ,iner' illul certain passengers al
most every branch of the city govern-, to elong to the armed forces
incnl by the effects of the
recent
: tot-ms, the question of securing the
ij t , . , .
rtnirj iLinos was suuueu nom every
:!nsh' and it was finally decided that a
tax levy be made. City Attorney
osgrove has been asked to dr..v up
an amendment to the 1916 budget or- j
linance This amendment will be
framed as soon as the affected de- ,
liartments have prepared the estimates
of the amount they will require. The
heaviest burden will fail on the water,
street and sewer depa-tmcnts. No
estimate of tin. total amoni.t that will
I'C needed i-i ,vt possible. I
The .vater sittl.it im in Coronado is
being given seiio.is attention oy the
Sin Diego nfticii.L. ,',t the present
lime San Diego is frrn!: ;.:ng .''oroi.alo
wiih its wat-sr supply. City Manager
I.cckwooil this afternoon, however,
filed a communication with the city
council recommending that Coronado
b; requested to rely upon its own re
sources for i watts' supply until such
t me as a pipe li lt can be constructed'
from the I'ppe- Otay Dam and con
nected witii Coronado main. It is
suggested that Coronado pump water
lpm iho Ti:i Juan.i river bed.
Proposal;: for fiirniKhing pipe to con-
nect Upper OUv Dim with the Lower hpr lhere pending further develop
Otay outlet have ben Kske.l by the ments.
.pcrating departmor.t if S.-.n Diego.; After the conference on the wharf
This is tlie first step toward hookinT the British representatives told Col
t;p what is left of the impounding ays- lector Hamilton that those aboard
tern with the city mains. City Man- who were free to depart had some
agcr Lock wood reported to the city uncertainty about their right to go.
council this afternoon that water had He prevailed upon Mr. Hamilton to
ceased flowing over the top of Morena return to the ship and make the same
(Continued on Page Three)
MODERN MOSES
. THE IRAN BIICAE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
?AN DIEGO, Feb. 2. Little Moses
Vi'ilkts. yar old sou of a Sweetwater ,
rancher, had a far rougher time in the
leit'it flood than did his predecessor
of Biblical times in the olden days, I
according to a story received today.
When the flood waters began to rush j
down tlic Sweetwater river. the
mother of little Moses placed him on '
an improvised lift raft that had been
constructed. The raft was placed
near the eiige of the river and Mose.t
t'eposited on a mattress. While the
remaining members of the family re
turned to the house to gather more
food supplies the waters of the
Swectw&ter rose so swiftly that they
soon started the raft and Moses down
stream. The little sister of Moses
realized what had happened and, rac
ing down the river ' bank, kept the
raft in sight until it touched shore,
when she rescued Moses from his
perilous position. After effecting th"
rescue it was necassary for the girl
to walls miles with Moses in her arms
before the reached shelter. Believing
both children lost, Mrs. Wilkes col
lapsed and is now reported seriously
ill at ti e home of Mrs. G. D. Stead,
near Jamacha.
Twu unique rescues were reported
today by the navy expeditionary in
Otay valley. Rowing up to a barn
o 1 1 1 ie(i asnore mis pan7 lasi ,wo u.iys. i ne oamage was es-, Architects w ho examined the build
lound inside a'iv. and apparently ''mated at $75,000 by architects who jn;, aft(.r the coM.,I)!ie ot lhe dome
Fl
APPEAL IS. IfS
LIFE WI LL BE IQE TOMORROW
republican A. P. Leased Wire
I'ROVIDENCK, R. I., Feb. 2. The
final appeal to the jury by counsel for
the defense in the trial of Mrs. L'liza-
' beth F. Mohr, accused with two negroes
of the murder of her husband. Dr. V.
Franklin Mohr, will be made tomor-
row. When court adjourned today it man and Mrs. Clertrude Daily, wife and
was announced that all of the testi- ' sister, respectively, of Henry Spell
mony probably would he in before the j man, were arrested this afternoon
noon recess tomorrow charged with perjury in connection
Cecil Victor Hrown was the only one with their evidence in support of the
of the negroes put on the stand today, j prisoner's alibi reached the jury in
Henry H. Spellman, the second one, I the afternoon session when Attorney
was called, but objection was made to '. Iewis got Police Captain Monahan to
his testifying in the absence of his I admit it on the witness stand. Mona
counscl. ' han testified in rebuttal for the state.
MORE THAN
ABOARD APPAMARE AT
LIBERTY TO GO ASHORE
Two Hundred and Forty
five Persons Held by Ger
man Prize Crew Are In
formed Are at Liberty to
Land Here at' Once.
TWO HUNDRED
OTHERS DETAINED
This Arrangement Reached
on Orders from Washing
ton After Conference Be
tween Representatives of
Governments Concerned.
hi n invT r-iiM t.'i ipt -.,
,Two hund,.P, nm, fnrt,fil.f npr
sons held prisoners bv a German
prize crew on the former British
reat r,rnain will lie held on
Doard until the I nited States gnv-
ernmeni nerinire v i r crmm th rTnar ine rirmsn r.asseutei iim-i mi.hu
' ......
statlls and tlnit 'f the snin itse!f-
l lis arraniremenT w.is rpurhw .n '
orders from Washington after a con
ference between representatives of
the German and British governments
on the Old Point wharf wit!) the
Norfolk Collector of Customs, Nor
man R. Hamilton, acting as inter
mediary. The captured liner, at anchor in
Hampton P.oads off Fortress Monroe
since she put into the Virginia Capes
Tuesday morning, will move to New
port News tomorrow to disembark
her passengers. With the others will
land G. D. Tagliaferri. a naturalized
American of Nevada, the only citizen
of the I'nited Stales aboard. Tagli
aferri, who, although carrying hi:
citizenship papers, bad not made hi:',
identity known, was discovered today
by the immigration officers.
Lieutenant Berg, the German re
servist commanding the prize crew,
still maintains full authority on
hoard tllft linr lint he i online nn.
(ler nlels from thp , llite(1 st.lt
government. He has agreed to move
the shin to Newport News and hold
(Continued on Page Threet
IS ROUGHER
little tlie worse for their experience
a horse and a cow with a new born
calf. All three were removed safely
to shore. This same party also found
in a cove a horse with only its head
out of water. The animal had been
fastened by a hal'er to its manger
and had been drifting about in tlie
vaU'r f'"' npal,-v six di-vs- The horse
was said to be in a pitable condition
but every effort is being made to save
its life, a dog, drifting about on a
bed, was rescued today, contentedly
sleeping and none the worse for its
c-xperiem-e.
UNDER INTENSE
Republican A. P.
SEATTLE, Fe). 2
Leased Wire
-An eighty foot
Fection of the roof, including the hugo
copper covered dome of St. Jame,
Catholic Cathedral, collapsed late to-
, day under the enormous weight of
snow which had collected during the
The defense closed with Hrown's
testimony. Hrown disclaimed all
knowledge of the murder of Dr. Mohr.
He asserted that he did not make any
confession to the police or newspaper
reporters.
I The announcement that Mrs. Spell-
Bit
- . .
PivnoQn niwrDi
UflMILUIIflL UUI
HALF THOSE
-i
l
I DELIVERS ADDRESS
! OVER TELEPHONE
i !
LOS ANGELES, Feb. 2
I Knink A. Vanderlip president of
the National City Bank of New I
York, addressed fioo members of
Queens Chamber of Commerce at
I their annual banquet in New
York Cit over , the long distance
j telephone from here tonight. Mr.
Vanderlip heard distinctly an in-
I troduetory address made at the
New York end of the transconti-
I ncntal line. " t
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Feb. 2. Indications
- .
brought into Hampton Roads by a
I German prize crew w in be held by the
I'nited States to be a German prize of
war and no. an auxiliary cruiser,W ere
given tonight in igh official quarters.
The neutrality board, which advises
the state department on such ques
tions, announced today that tlie ship
was a prize, but the announcement was
recalled later presumably because the
state department itself has not acted.
The real point to be decided is
whether the Appam shall remain in
possession of ihe prize crew under the
terms of the Prussian1-American treaty,
or s.iall be returned to her British own
ers under The Hague convention. In
dications were given that the stale de
partment will hull that the prize be
longs to Germany.
Count von Hernstorff. the German
ambassador, in a formal mile to Secre
tary Lansing g-ive notice that the Ap
pam came into Hampton Roads under
the treaty which guarantees her to her
captors. Sir Cecil Spring-Riee, the
British ambassador, asked that the
ship be returned to her British own
ers as a prize recovered under The
Hague convention.
The Hague convention under article
2! provides for the internment of the
crew and the surrender of the ship, but
state department olficials are doubt
ful whether it can be applied to tlie
case of the Appam. first because the
Prusi-ian-Amcrican treaty is believed
to b-? binding, and second, because
Great Britain signed but never rati
fied this particular Hague convention.
I'niil the status of the ship is de
cided she will remain in the custody of
Norfolk customs authorities and if
turned over to Germany may be fcept
in port or sent to sea as the German
government chooses.
K was regarded as significant that
neither the British nor the German
authorities contended that the Appam
wa a naval auxiliary. Thus the
t'nited States is relieved from decid
ing a question which officials feared
would become one of the most trouble
some complexities of the war. As both
governments concede she is a prize
nothing remains to be decided as to her
disposition.
The state department today request
er me customs autnonties to land all
passengers and non-cimbatants. Their
case now goes to the immigration a-u-authorities.
Foreign consuls will care
for their own nationals who are indi
gent. Those who can afford to do so
cure nnimii
GERMANY SEEMS
LIKELY TO HOLD
fiPPAM AS PRIZE
(Continued on Page Three)
ijiluiihgiiliI uu nn
WEIGHT OF SNOW
inspected the building after the acci-
dent.
Whether any life was lost when
t,! great m steel terra cotto
I Whether
and eouner fell 1-'a feet to thp flnor
of .,. ,, .,..:, ,,:1S n.
determined As far as known no one
v.as in the Cuthedrai at the time.
j said the damage, except for broken
iuihiuhs uue 10 i uiieu.sioii, was con
fined 'o the space within the four
main pillars supporting the arches.
These pillars, the arches and the
main walls were not damaged, they
Said, but the curtain walls were
cracked and thrown out of plumb. The
collapse of the dome was caused by
the failure of one of the four 80
foot steel trusses supporting the roof
oer the cross of the arches, the
prchltects said.
Tlie bra?s and oynx pulpit was de
stroyed but the main altar and the
f 2.1.000 liipe oigan were not damaged.
The dome, octagonal in shape, was
44 feet in diameter. The roof of the
West Seattle Chirstian church also
tollap.seil. The building, a frame
structure, was completely wrecked,
vith the loss of $2,000.
A man shoveling snow from the roof
of a six story building in the down
town district was killed when he lost
I is footing and fell to the ground
early tonight.
WOULD DISBAR
ALLEGED BRIBER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LOS ANGELES. Feb. 2. A large
part of the answer filed by Bar
clay McCowan, district attorney of
Kern county, in the disbarment pro
ceedings brought against him in the
supreme court of California by the
Kern County Bar Association, was
ordered stricken out, and McCowan's
motion -for an order on the chairman
and secretary of the Kern county
grand jury to produce a certified
copy of the grand jury's proceed
ings was denied today by judges of
the district court of appeals.
The disbarment proceedings, which
will be heard by the district court
of appeals here on February 14, were
based on the alleged solicitation of
a bribe by McCowan. The court's or
der excludes from his answer prac
tically all reference to a grand jury
investigation which McCowan set out
exonerated him of the charge that he
solicited a bribe.
o
OAKLAND CROOKS
KILL POLICEMAN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire (
OAKLAND, Feb. 2. Police Ser
geant J. N. Thornbury was shot and
seriously wounded here' tonight by
one of a trio of robbers who drove
an automobile into the heart of the
downtown district and looted the
show window of a jewelry store of
goods valued at several thousand dol
lars. hie of the men smashed the
window with a brick and helped him
self to tlie display of jewelry and
diamonds while another stood guard
with a pistol and held back the
crowd. Sergeant Thornbury appeared
and seized the robber who was loot
ing the window. The other robber
fired andthe bullet entered the up
per part of the policeman's body.
Thornbury. in spite of his wuind.
held on to his arm and overpowered
him. The other robber seized the
loot, jumped into the waiting ma
chine and sped away. The prisoner
refused to give his name. It was
said that Thornbury probably would
recover.
BAN ON CHILD
LABOR PRODUCTS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Feb. i. Tlie Keat
ing lull oarring trom interstate com
merce the products of child labor was
passed by the house today. Z"l to 46
and now goes to the senate. It im
poses heavy penalties for interstate
shipment of any commodity in whole
or in part produced by children under
sixteen, working in mines or quar
ries, or by children under 14 work
ing in mills, canneries. Workshops
or manufacturing establishments.
Where children are employed at night
or more than eight hours a day in
this latter class of industries, the
minimum age is sixteen instead of I
fourteen.
Opposition to the bill came large
ly from the south. Representative
Webb, of North Carolina, chairman
of the bouse judiciary committee,
urged that it was unconstitutional,
and sought unsuccessfullv to exempt
the children of widows from its op
eration. o
S. P. OIL CASE
STILL IN COURT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 2. The last
of more than 200 photographs showing
alleged oil seepages and shale out
crnppings on California oil lands were
presented in evidence today by the
government in its suit against the
Southern Pacific company and other
defendants in the I'nited States dis
trict court. A. G. Nichols, a govern-1
ment witness, was put on the stand to
... . ... ,
testify as to tfie significance of the
photographs.
Objection to Nichols' qualifications
as an expert were entered by attor
neys for the defendants.
SECURE JURY IN
BEALE WILL CASE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SANTA BARBARA, Cal., Feb. 2
The jury was today secured in the
John K .Beale estate contest, involving
half a million dollars, brought by
eastern nephews and nieces against
the widow, Mrs. Lillian Beale. Follow
ing argument. Judge Merle J. Rogers
reduced the questions to be considered
to undue influence and fraud, with the
possibility that the alleged second will
may have some bearing on the .case.
Tlie taking of testimony will com
mence in the morning.
: ; o
MURDER CHARGE
NOT SUSTAISED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LOS ANGELES. Feb. 2. Following
the acquittal today of Samuel
Shammo, a policeman, on a charge of
manslaughter in connection with the.
shooting of Charles Chester Xoolen.
aged IT, October 19 last, Thomas Lee
Woolwine. district attorney of Los
Angeles county, offered a motion in
the superior court dismissing similar
charges
against
based on the same case
W illiam M. Cahill. police
sergeant.
o
FREIGHTER SEWARD PROCEEDS I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SEATTLE, Feb.
The Alaska
Steamship company received word to-
dav that the big freighter Seward, I 1 ne explosion is neneeu to nave
which put in at Latouche, Alaska, Jan- , , ec" due to ,he admission of cold wa
uary 27 in distress while enroute to tOT into the boilers. The boat was en
Vladivostok, from Seattle, with a cargo r?ute down river wlth a cargo of coal,
ot war munitions, bac repaired her !,ut had tied up here to take on addi
damaged steering gear and continued tional barges.
her voyage to Russia. The blast was terrific, bodies and
PRESIDENT DEMANDS
BACKING IN DEFENSE
OF AMERICAN LIVES
In Kansas City Speech Ex
ecutive Insists That Steps
Be Benn This Month to
Back Him Up in Defense
Plans for Country.
Republican A. P. Le.ased Wire
KANSAS CITY, Feb. 2. President
Wi'son tonight demanded that steps be
begun during the present month to
back him up in defending American
lives and commerce abroad. His de
mand met with shouts and applause
from an audience of 16,000 persons who
waved American flags, leaped to their
scats and cheered.
When the president ceased speaking
he leaned forward and asked the great
throng to join him in singing "Amer
ica." The band played softly, the au
dience stood and the words of Amer
ica's national anthem came in a glori
ouc burst of song from 16.000 throats.
The big crowd was for the president
from the start. It waited patiently an
hour to see him and cheered itself
hoarse in a three minute demonstration
when he appeared. Sixteen thousand
hcird him, twenty thousand were
turned away, and ten thousand more
tried to glimpse him as he left his ho
tel for the hall.
"Why, some men in Washington are
rpiestioning whether we could get the
100,000 men for which the government
is asking" he said at one point of his
address. "Would they volunteer?" he
asked.
A man in the far end of the hall
shouted answer: "Yes." In a moment
the crowd was in an uproar. Scores of
men. echoed the shout "yes, yes." Pres
ident Wilson smiled and held out his
hand.
"Why, I believe," he said as the tu
mult died, "you could raise the MiO.OOO
men in almost any state. I believe you
could gel 5,000 men right here in this
in lience. .
"I have been thrilled by fie X'"
rier;ce of these last few days," the
president said, "and I will go home ro
Washington and smile at the gemle
rnen who say the I'nited States is not
awake,"
"Those gallant men who sit on the
l"ill in Washington and make our laws
are going to deliver the goods " the
crowd cheered. "Don't misunderstand
me they are going to deliver the
goods because you want the goods de
livered." The president said the time had
come for him to ask his fellow citi
zens to "get up on your hind legs and
talk and tell the people who represent
you what the nation desires and de-
mands. The thing that everybody in
democracy is listening for is the
tramp, tramp, tramp of the facts. I
have come to ask you what is hack of
me in this task of preserving at once
the peace and honor of this country."
the president said. "The judge on the
bench has the I.itt behind him, with its
bailiffs, sheriffs, national guardsmen,
imi me i inieu oiaies army, oui, n you
ignore in some foreign capital what the
president urges as the rights of the
people and government of the I'nited
States, what is there back of it?
"It is necessary that 1 should come
and ask you this question, because I
don't know how long the mere word
and insistence of your government will
prevail to maintain your honor and. the
dignity and power of the nation.
"There may come a time, I pray Ood
it may never come, but it may come
in spite of everything we can do, when
I shall have to ask: 'I have said my
say; who stands back of it?' Where is
I,,' ' - . ... . , . . ' ,
;that force by which the right and ma
jesty of the I'nited States are to -b
vindicated and asserted.
The president declared the need was
immediate and that action should be
begun with the present moment.
"I assure you there is not a day to be j
lost," he exclaimed. "Not because
there is any special crisis but because
I do not know 24 hours ahead what will :
happen. . '
"The future does not .depend on us j
but upon commanders of ships and of !
submarines and upon blockades and j
upon many other men, big and little. I
"I have read editorials" he said, i
"sneering at the number of mites sent j
abroad by the government and asking :
why the government did not act; in
these same papers I have seen edi
torials against the preparation to do
anything whatever effective if these
notes are to be regarded
Is that the
lempei oi me l niteu states; It may
ue nie iemir oi some editorial of- !
flees but I know it is not the tern- !
(Continued on Page Two)
TEN KILLED, FOUR
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HCNTINGTOX. W. Va Feb. 2. Ten
persons were killed and four seriously
burned by the explosion of the boilers
on the towboat Sam Brown of Pitts
burg in the Ohio river here today. The
dead include: L. C. Blair, captain of
the boat; Sam Bojer, second engineer;
I Perry A. Wilson, engineer and William
5 x,ir' i,tew'arJ- The others were
members of the crew.
RIVER BOAT'S BOILERS
D-
SPEECH COSTS WILSON
PAIR OF NEW GLOVES
TOPEKA, Feb. 2. While Tresi-
dent Wilson was speaking, a pair
of new fur-lined gloves were taken
I from a pocket of his overcoat
which he had hung in an ante- j
room. It was supposed somebody j
wanted a souvenir of his visit to
I Kansas. He missed them when he
started for his train.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OPEKA. Kan., Feb. 2. President
T
Wilson today asserted the right of
Americans to travel abroad and their
right to send food, cotton and manu
f.ictureo oioduots to peaceful popula-
NEED FORCE
IN VINDICATION
OF 00R RIGHTS
tions "in neutral markets" and of France and near St. Die in the os-
whertver the conditions of war make ' ges mountains, with the French the
it possible to do so under the ordinary ' 3ggressors Tile French also have
rults of international law. I . ,, . .
I captured the town of Lens
"It may be necessary to use the i , . . ,.
force of the Cnitcd States to vindicate 1 0n the Russmn front BerIln cliun
the rights of American citizens to ; the defeat of a strong Russian force
enjoy the protection of international between the Stoohod and Styr rivers,
law," he declared emphatically in P. while Vienna reports the forced wifh
speech before 4,000 persons here. He fr.lxval of the 1!ussians from their ad
urged the support of the people of
Kansas in preparing that force fori
cse, if necessary.
When tlie president arrived in To-
peka the applause which greeted him
was scattering. In introducing him,
Covernor Arthur Capper said frankly
he thought manv persons in Kansas
, , . .
opposed to great armaments. During
l is speech the president declared that
if Kansas were opposed to preparation
tor national defense, it was because
some one had misrepresented the ad-
ministration's police and the audi-
ence jumped to its feet to cheer.
When he left Toj.eka thousands
roared a friendly farewell. . to be made on Saloniki.
"There is noting you would be A jn .Albania the Austro-Hungarian
quicker to blame me for than- for are ' reported to be continuing thei
i.eglecting to safeguard the rights of progress unopposed. A dispatch from
Americans, no matter where they
might be in the world," the president
said. "There are
rights guaranteed
clearly marked
by international
law which every American is entitled
to enjoy and America is not going to
abide tlie habitual or continued ne
glect of those rights.
"Perhaps not being as near the
port-i as some other Americans, you ' with the prenen troops at Ambam.
de not travel as much and do not The crown prinfe of Turkey is re
rea'ize the infinite number of legiti- .p,, in a Constantinople dispatch
mate errands upon which Americans
travel; errands of commerce, errands
! of rc'ief, errands of business for the
government, errands or every sort
which are making Americans useful
to the world. Americans do not travel mfri rl-fensive against Saloniki is im
to disturb the world. They travel to minf nt, aCCOrding to Saloniki advices
quicken the processes of the inter- I from a Gpnr,an sollrce to the Exchangs
change of life and of goods in the Telegraph's Athens correspondent who '
world, end their travel here and there savs the oievgeli-Stnimitsa railway
ought not to be impeded by a reckless . hePn re,,uireci an,i that Field Mar
disregard of international obligations. , von Ma,,Uensen now is at Monas-
"There is another thing we ought !
to safeguard, and that is our right to j A ,,,.(; of thp Montenegrin army,
sell what we produce in the open ,nia correspomient adds, has effected
neutral markets .if the world. "Where a 1uwtion ith the Serbian troops and
there is a blockade we resognize the f.,Uen hack on Durazz0.
blockade; where there are the ordi- A di!spatch to tne Exchange Tele
nary restraints created bj a state of : snl,,, from Zllric Kavs:
war we ought to recognize those re- is reported there was a heavy
stra.nts, out tne worm neeus tne
wheat off the Kansas fields and off
i f!o trine acres of the United States .
ana we .naie inerigni ui huopi me
(Continued on Page Three)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Feb. 2 Members of
the National Guard association con-
I tinned before the house military com-
: miUoe today their vigorous opposition
to any army increase plan that would
exclude the state .troops as soldiers of
the first line, while the naval commit-
INJURED WHEN
E
wreckage being hurled to the shore on
both sides of the river. A majority of
the bodies were so badly mangled that
they were unrecognizable. Charles
Shaffer.' a cook, who died later was in
sane when found on a floating piece of
wreckage. The work of listing the sur
vivors was made easier by the fact
that the big steel safe which held the
record of the boat's crew, was blown
ashore.
A lew minutes after the explosion
occurred, the ferryboat City of Hunt
ington, the towboat Katherine Davis
and many launches and skiffs put out
from various points along the river,
nicking up survivors and bringing them
here.
NATIONAL GUARD ASSOCIATION
STILL LIGHTING AM PLANS
EXPun
ONLY ARTILLERY
BOMBARDMENTS
ON WAR FRONTS
Scarcely Any Fighting on
Any Battle Fronts Ex
cept Artillery Engage
ments None with Any
Noteworthy Actions.
NEW OFFENSIVE
AGAINST SALONIKI
Portion of the Montenegrin
Army Reported to Have
Effected Junction with
Serbs and F'allen Back
on Durazzo.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
There is scarcely any fighting on any
of the battle fronts, except artillery
engagements, and in none of these has
any noteworthy achievement been re
rorded. Heavy bombardments have
taken place in the Champagne region
vanced trenches near I'scieczk in East
! Calicia.
1,1 hanl 1J 1)and fighting on the Col
Di Lara slope the Austrians report the
i capture and destruction of Italian saps
1 an,, aso the repulsc of ItaIian infan.
. , ,,
try attacks in the Sugna valley. Rome,
however, credits the Italians with the
victory in the latter region,
' The concentration of large numbers
f 0rrmans Bulgarians and Turks
, , , . . , ,
ia,on. thc r-rrek frnntler ls taken ,n
Athens to mean that an attack soon is
Athens fays a portion of the Monte
negro armv his effected a junction
j with the Serbian troops and fallen
; hlll on ourrazza. Albania's chief sea
port.
O-reece and Rumania have signed a
dual neutrality compact, according to
a Rome dispatch. In West Africa a
, British column has formed a junction
coming by way of Berlin to have com
mitted suicide.
i t. ah i. c-i;l:
LONDON, Feb. 2. An Auttro-Ger-
s,!jmp todar on tft Krankfort bourse.
owing to the belief of financiars that
. Gpvman American diplomatic relations
are approaching a crisis."
d bfrscL .xeElpaodexth kT ehield c tf
tee heard expert testimony as to guns,
torpedoes, mines and other ardnance
material from Rear Admiral Strauss,
chief of ordnance.
Adjutant Generals Sadler of New
Jersey, and Dickson of Illinois, and
former Adjutant General Critchfield of
Ohio, testified that there virtually was
no sentiment among the guardsmen in
favor of the continental army plan.
They contended that congress had full
power to so nationalize the militia and
that defects of the system pointed out
by regular army officers could be
cured.
Colonel Critchfield said four requi
sites were adequate compensation:
Greater field training, clarification of
the president's authority over the na
tional guard and administration of mi
litia affairs in the war department by
officers in sympathy with the needa
and wishes of the forces. General
Dickson insisted that in any event th
states, should retain the right to use
the militiamen in peace times. ,
Cclonel M. M. Foreman, commanding
the First Illinois cavalry, was the first
line officer of the guard to.be heard,
was emphatic in asserting that if the
continental army were organized, in
terest in the national guard would
wane.
"Only the promise that we would be
in the first line in any war to come."
he said, "has kept us true to the faith."
