ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
TH1KTY.SICVKXTH YEA II.
vol.. rvi.ix. so. at.
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO.THURSDAY, "FEBRUARY 3, 1916,
'ally by Carrier or Mail, Ot
Month, feliuile OoDletv. 6m
PI
IP TO
BE GIVEN FULL
INDEPENDENCE
Senate Adopts Definite Policy
by Vote of 41 to 41, Vice
President Marshall Deciding
the Tie.
PRESIDENT EMPOWERED
TO EXTEND THE TIME
Should Circumstances, Inter
nal or External, Warrant,
Matter May Be Put Up to
Congress Again,
IT MORNIN8 JOURNAL IriTKL LIASIO Wll
Washington, Feb. 2. A definite
policy contemplating Philippine Inde
peidence within four years, was ap
nrovcd by the senate today, Vice
president Marshall casting the decid
thoi congress an opportunity in its dis
cretion to further consider the situ
ation in tho said Philippines; but uny
such extension of time by tho presi
dent shall not otherwise suspend or
nullify the operative foive of this art,
unless the congress shall hereafter
so direct.
Full Tower ti I'rcsident.
'Fur tho purpose of a complete and
prompt compliance with this direc
tion,, the president is hereby invested
with full power and authority to make
such orders and regulations and to
enter Into such negotiations with the
authorities of said Philippines or oth.
ers as may bo necessary to finally
settle and adjust nil property rights
and other relations as between the
Fnited States and the said Philippines
and cause to be acknowledged, re
spected and safeguarded all of the
personal and property lights of citi
zens or corporations of the t'nited
I Slates and of other countries, resident
or engaged in business in said Phil
i ippines or having property interests
! therein.
ing vote in favor of the Clarke j "in any such settlement or adjust
amendment to tho Philippine bill di- ment so made In respect to tho rights
teeling the president to withdraw j and property of the United States as
Ame rican sovereignty within a four-J against the said Philippines the pres
year period. Tho vote, which follow- j ident may reserve or acquire such
ed weeks of debate, was 41 to 41. An j lands and rights and privileges up
effort to recommit the bill was de- j purtenant thereto as may, in his jtidg-1
feated nnd final senate action on tho 1 ment be required by the t'nited States
measure, which has not yet passed ' for naval bases and coaling stutions
the house, was deferred until to-j within the territory of said Philip
morrow. ; pines.
Administration senators in support-j
ing tho Clarko amendment maintain-:
ed that some such definite provision j
THE WEATHER
WEATHFIt FOniiOAST.
Denver, Feb, 2. New Mexico
Thursday fair, warmer northeast por
Hon; Friday probably fair.
GERMAN RAIDER'S
I.OC.Ui WKATHKIl lU.roRT.
For twenty-four hour, ending
6 p. m. yesterday:
Maximum temperature, 40
minimum, N degrees; range,
green; temperature at (i p,
degrees; north wind; clear.
at
degrees;
32 de
m 27
CITY BANK CI.KAHINGS.
Yesterday
$61,614. 9.
IDENTITY IS STILL
UNDETERMINED
WASHINGTON
Prince Hatzfeldt Says Com
merce Destroyer Is Cruiser,
Built in 1913 or 1914, Com
manded by Count Donna.
ENGLISH PRISONERS
SAY VESSEL IS NEW
Members of Mysterious Crew
Wear Caps With Many Dif
ferent Names on Them;
Probably Merchantman,
J. P. MORGAN STARTS j
, ON TRIP TO LONDON
IIV ! JOURNAL (MCIM. HUH Wt.nl
New York, Feb. ,. i. .Morgan
sailed tonight for F.nnl.iiid aboard
the steamship .Kotlrrd.i m. ,. was
neccmpiinled by Iteiijuinin Strung,
govi rtii r of the New York fcder.il
reserve batik. ' Aiiimuluvmcnt that
tho two men were to visit London
caused much surprise anil tntcicit in
financial circles unlaw
No details regarding Mr. .Morgan's
trip was obtainable beyond the state
ment that business affairs would en
gross his attention while abroad.
It is understood he will spend nt
least a month in London.
Intimations that Air. Morgan'
present trip mfchl be related to an
other external jV'.'in by the allies met
with denial frofi one of his business
assoelatcn. It Js believed neveit he
less, that the Hi'iiish and 1 ivncb gov
ernments are considering the advlsn-
bility or nlfcrijig another external
loan.
TO
DEFEND
1ST BEGIN NOW
I.
SAYS
HIT
was necessary to square, with the in
dependence, declaration in the Haiti
more, platform.
lYcslilont Approves.
President Wilson has made no pub
lic comment on the proposed amend
ment, but senators who had discuss
ed it with him let it be known he
was not opposed to It. Chairman
Hitchcock of tho Philippine commit
tee, opposed the, amendment and was
supported by eleven other democrats.
Five republicans, Senators Horah.
Hupp, Kcnyon, La Folletto and
Works, voted for the amendment. He
sides Senator Hitchcock, democrats
who opposed it were p.eckhnm, Lea
of Tennessee; Lewis, Myers, O'Gnr
liiii n, Phcl.in, Fomerene, Hansdoll,
Keed, Saiilsbury and Walsh.
lly the terms of the amendment as
perfected, provision is made for er
tensioii of time for granting indepen
dence, if the president should deem
it advisable, until congress shall have
had an opportunity to further con
sider the subject.
The amendment as adopted fol-i
'tomorrow.
i iw niciinirwni. i
"The president is hereby authorized
and directed to withdraw and stirren-
der nil right of possession, mtpervl- J
sion, jurisdiction, control or snvcr- j
eighty now existing and exercised by j
the t'nited States over the territory;
and people of the Philippines and ho j
shall on behalf of the United States ;
fully recognize the independence of
the said Philippines as a separate and
self-governing nation and acknowl
edge the authority nnd control over
the same of the government institut
ed by tho people thereof. This trans
fer of possession, sovereignty and
governmental eontrol shall be com-
Itletpd nnd l.penm. absolute nut lesfi 1
than two years nor more than four
years from the date of the approval
of this act, tinder the terms and in
the manner hereinafter prescribed;
Provision Attached.
"Provided, that if the president,
prior to the expiration of the said
period of four years, shall find that
the condition of the internal or. ex
ternal affairs of said Philippines in
respect to the stability or efficiency
L 1PPEH
FOR IS. II
EXPECTED TODAY
One of Accused Negroes De
nies All Knowledge of Doc
tor's Assassination; Cannot
Tell About Movements,
T MORNINS JOURNAL 4nC(L LUIO Willi
Providence, It. I., Feb. 2. The
final appeal to the jury by counsel for
the defense in the trial of Mrs. Eliza
beth F. Mohr accused, with two ne-
igroes, of the murder of her husband,
! Dr. C. Franklin Mohr, will be made
When court adjourned to-
jdny it was announced that an or tne
j testimony probably would be in before
Jtbo noon recess tomorrow,
j Cecii Victor urown whh the only
j onoe of the negroes put on the stand,
i Henry H. Spellnian, the sccor.d tine.
was called hut oojection was mane 10
his testifying in the absence of his
counsel.
Xcgro Denies Charge.
Tho defense closed with l'.rown's
testimony. Mrown disclaimed all
knowledge of the murder of r. Mohr.
He denied that he shot the doctor; de
nied that. Mrs. Mohr promise,! to give
him Si!. 000 to do the job; denied that
Mohr bought him a motorcycle
denied that, he said in Mrs. aionrs
nreuBnee ni linlice headquarters that
she hired him to slay her husband.
Tirntvn'a defense wns nil alibi. He
nsserted that on the night Dr. Mohr
was shot he rode his motorcycle down
toward Rockv Point and then to Itiv
irside. Tho latter place is about half
way between this city and the scene
of the shooting.
Could Not Answer Questions.
The witness in cross-examination
(RV UORNINS JOURNAL RRICIAL LCAICO WIRI)
Old Point Comfort, Va., Feb. 2.
Versions of the Identity of the German
raider which captured the Appnmundl
thu other craft still differ. Prince
Hatzfeldt, of the Gorman embassy at
Washington, asserts that she is the
Herman cruiser Moewe, built in 1913
or 1SI14, for the imperial navy and
commanded by Captan Count Donna.
All of the captured liritish skippers
agree, however, that the raider is a
converted merchantman of about 5,000
tons named Ponga, probably completed
a few months ago, mounting six mask
guns of near six-inch calibre and hav
ing two torpedo tubes. The English
men believe she was fitted nut re
cently as a commerce destroyer and
slipped out to the high seas from the
German naval base at the Kiel canal
shortly before she began her career
off the coast of Africa by capturing
tho steamer Farringford on Jitnu
uarv 11.
"They may call her what they
I please," said Mr. James tonight, "but
I have dined aboard the old Moewe
and she was only a 2,fi00-tons ship.
Maybe they are calling the raider thoj
Moewe now."
"Captain Davis Harton, of the;
steamship Corbrldge, the second prize)
taken by the raider, was a prisoner j
aboard her before he was transferred I
with his crew to the Appam. He ,nys:
the raider Is a brand new ship built j
for the-fruit trade with her decks
strengthened to carry a battery that;
would do credit to a first class naval '
commerce destroyer.
"Some of her plates inside hud not
even been painted when I saw her,"
Captain Harton said. "She is a fast
boat with a single funnel and has her
hold fitted for carrying fruit. Her
guns six. of them probably are five
and seven tenths Inches bore. Four
of them are mounted forward, masked
by a collapsable steel forecastle, which
falls away when the ship gets within
range of her prey. Two others are
mounted aft, one of them on the poop
and both so placed that they are not
readily observed
Saw the Name "Ponga." I
"Although I was coufined below
deck during most of my slay on board,
SENATE INTERVENES
FOR OIL INTERESTi
(V MORNIN9 JOURNAL SPKCIAL LIA4CD WIRI1
Washington, ten. 2. Further con
sideration of the question of lenses on
the Osage. Indian oil lands was turned
over today to a senate siihcommlltoe
with instructions to draft a resolu
tion requesting the secretary of the
interior not to make any disposition
of lands developed hy the Mnrnsdall
Oil company until further action by
congress and providing that after the
expiration ff leases next month the
company be permitted to continue
operations with the Interior depart
m nt impounding profit.
Fulled Suites ere on the Atlantic .".on
board nod Hint, therefore, ihe nation
must be ready to repel he fit -if attack
in order to avoid disaster.
"We all' w ititevilim n cs I in lysm and
Ood only knows what the issue shall
be," was the way he prefaced his cm
elusion In which he asked his nun :.,.
to keep cool but l.i uphold the ndiv
nielli of the goveriinn nt In lis de
mands, for a linger, more eftciiivr
t .eaiiK of national defeiu...
President Wilson's address was In
pan us follows;
Mutter of 4 'ohm I v,
"My natural duty Is in Washington,
I have a eitain scruple ,,f conscience
In being away from the capital for
. ., , 0, I many days at such n. tune, and I
01 MlSSOUI'l GlVCSjw"ld "ot have erne away had I not
believed that there was a stronger
compulsion of conscience to acipiaint
J w ith the state of affairs,
"Yon me counting upon me to do
no re than keep you mil of trouble.
on are 4-oiiiillng on in, ( sec to It
that the lights of the cltlciw of the
I illicit Kliitex, wlicrcxcr tin y might
be, are respected. You lime connuM
upon me to 'wvthui your energies
should be released along the hnnnols
of trnd In order thai you might
o j0 I tscne Ow win-Id us the only nuiloii
OUItllllliy , dlsciigugcil and ready to wcre It. Yon
llro-po Tint Not n Div's Dp- l,ttv, 'M"",tcd mo in see Hint the rext
lo ( xpirsj and exert 1st Imt buniime
anil legitimate energy.
"And I have come out t" ask you
what there was behind me In this
task. You know the Judge on bis
bench has the whole physical force
of the nation hack of him, And
when he utters a Judgment the man
ngulnst whom It is uttered knows he
dare no resist It,
Must Have Hacking.
'-Mill xlien I, as your sHikesman
Metropolis
Wilson Wild Demonstration
of Enthusiastic Approval at
Great Meeting.
116,000 THROATS JOIN
IN SINGING 'AMERICA'
MUSIS CROWD
CHANGES
COLD TO 11 AS
IN SPEAKS
I
Chief Executive
lay Should Occur in Prepar
ing for Defense,
imt MORNINS JOURNAL MCCIAL IffACfCI WIRt)
Kansas City, Feb. 2. President Wil
son tonight demanded that steps he'
begun during the present month In;
lack him up In defending American'
lives and commerce abroad. Hs de. j
niand met wth shouts it ml applause;
from an audience of lti.ono persons
Governor Capper, Introducing
President at Topcka, De
clares Against Increase of
Army and Navy,
CHIEF OF NATION QUICK
TO ENTHUSE THRONG
Asserts Rights of Americans
Under International Law
Must Be Protected by Arm
ed Force if Necessary,
Arthur Dunn nPrdoned,
Snnta Fe, Feb. 2. (iovernor Mc
Donald today pardoned Arthur Dunn
out of jail in Kiswell where be
serving seventy-five days.
NATIONAL GUARD
i
MUCH, AGAINST
GARRISON S PLAN
leaped to 'anil it prcwciuaiixc, uiicr a Judgment
with ngiii-il lo the rlgl Is of (he l ull .
eil MuK In lis relations (o oilier
nations, what in the sanction? Mtmt,
Is (be compulsion.' What lies back
of tliut? You will say 'the fom- and
majesty of tho Culled Slates.' Yes.
I lie force a ml nmjiMy of lie I'liitetl
(Cinllnttrd en I'ltiti I'tvi,.)
VILL EARING
Witli Proper Changes in Laws
Claim Is State Militia Can
Be Made Effective for First
Line in Time of War,
who waved American flags,
their seats and cheered.
When the president ceased speaking
he leaned forward and asked the great
was throng to Join hint In singing "Amer
ica." The band played softly, the au
dience stood, and the words of Amer
' lea's national anthem came In a glor
ious burst of song from IB, 000 throats, i
j The big crowd whs for the president I
from the start. It waited patiently an
hour to see him and cheered Itself
hoarse in a three-minute demonstra
tion when he appeared. Sixteen thou-(
rand heard hm; twenty thousand were,
turned away, and ten thousand more
tried to glimpse him as he left hls
hotel for the hall. j
(ids Kntliuslnstlc Answer.
"Why! Some men in Washington'
are iuestoning whether we could get
the Mm, not) men for which the gov
ernment is asking," he said at one
point of his address. "Would they, '
volunteer?" be asked. ' .
a man in the far end ot ihe hair Garianza Forces and United
shouted tile uiiKWi-r, ")iu j
In a moment the crowd whs In an'
uproar, .scores of men echoed the' .., nn RnnHit MWnnH Fy
Ht-VII V U ' I U 1 1 U-VV.VV.tvM Ui I W
BORDER LOADED
WITH
held I
shout, "Yes! Yes.',r
irt HoRNiNa journal rricial Lf aio wim President Wilson smiled and
I Washington, Feb. 2. Members of the 0Uf his hand,
i national guard association continued! "Why, I believe," he said, as the
before the house military committee tumult died, "you could raise the noo,.
today their vigorous opposition to any ouo ,,, almost any slate. I he
artily increase plan that would exclude ,.Ve you could get five thousand men
the stale troops as soldiers of the first
line, while the naval committee heard
expert testimony as to guns, torpedoes,
mines and other ordnance material
from Hear Admiral Strauss, chief of
ordnance.
Adjutant (ii lieritls Sadler, ,,f New
Jersey, and, lMckson, of Illinois, and
former Adjutiinl (lenernl CrllchfUld,
of Ohio, testified that there virtually
wan no sentiment among the guards
men in favor of the continental army
plan. They contended that congress Km,H hemusi!
had full power to so nationalize, the delivered."
right here In this audience,
"I have been thrilled by the exper
iences of these lasl few days," the
presidenl said, "and 1 will go home to
Washington ami smile at the gentle
men who say l be t'nited Slates Is not
awake.
"Those gallant men who sit on the
hill in Washington and make our laws
ate going to deliver the ftnod.t " the
crowd cheered. "Don't misunderstand
me they are going to deliver the
I managed to make a rather complete militia and that defects of the system
inspection. On a plate a name 'Ponga' pointed out by regular urmy officers
was engraved and several of vis saw could bo cured.
the same name on papers in the com-i Colonel Crltchfield said four rc'iuls
manders cabin. Ites were adetiate compensation,
"I was on the boat beginning the greater field training, clarification of
Inight of January 11, my ship having the president's authority over the nn-
of the proposed government thereof , wns n)),p (o RiV(, no r,.UHOtt why he
is such as to warrant him in so do-1 tool lne ri,ie ther than "Just riding"
ing, he Is hereby further authorized. ', j , hf! nllm(t a single person he
by proclamation duly made and pub- ...ip-i lri .,,. PVenlng- except the three
lished, to extend the said time to ! nr fmlr 8tat0 witnesses who saw him
and including the date of the final j at Riverside. He asserted that he did
adjournment of the session of con- not nlIlk,. any confession to the police
Kress which Khali convene next after , newspaper reporters,
the date of the expjration of the said I int. announcement that Mrs. Spell
period of four veu in and thus afford j ni,ln lin j,s. Gertrude Daily, wife
sister respectively of Henry Spell-
man, were nrresiea mis ""
charged with perjury in connection
with their evidence in support of the
nrlsoner's abili. reached the Jury in
the afternoon session when Attorney
in-! Lewis got Police Captain Oeorge Mon
ahttn to admit it on the witness stand.
jMonahan testified in rebuttal for the
I state.
I
The Day in Congress
skxatt:.
Itesumcd debate on Philippine
dependence bill.
Public lands committee began hear
ings on oil land leasing bill.
Foreign relations committee recom
mended ratification of Colombian
and N'iearaguan ' treaties, reducing
proposed Indemnity to Colombia from
$25,000,000 to $15,000,000. .
Senator Hobinson introduced a bill
t" appropriate $100,000 for Arkansas
flood relief.
Adjourned at 5 p. m. until noon
Thursday.
noisrc.
N'ew standing committee on flood
control comprising fifteen members
'hh proposed by rules committee.
Military nnd naval committees con
tinned hearings nn defense legisla
tion. Passed Keating bill to regulate
1'Hirs of child labor.
Pill reiic rted to create pension
lionor roll of war veterans over 65
ho .were distinguished for gallantry.
" Adjourned nt 5:05 p. m. until noon
Thursday.
TO ARBITRATE POSTAL
DISPUTE WITH HOLLAND
tmt MORNINS JOURNAL RPICIAL LIAilO WIRI1
H. rne, Switzerland (via. Paris, Feb.
o i viiki master General HtRcger. of
Switzerland, has been asked to offi
ciate as the arbitrator of Holland in
the postal question in dispute between
that country and the Fnitcd States.
The American arbitrator is the Span
ish postmaster general. The point in
question is article JV of the postal
union treaty concerning the tariff for
transit sending. Holland claiming
from America for the transport of
merican mail bags, etc.. on Dutch
pac ket bonis, about 500,000 francs
I more than tne i imeo .-v ki"-
In the Spanish and Swiss post mast
ers genersl are unsuccessful in reach
ing a settlement they will themselves
choose mii umpire.
Honal guard nnd administration of
militia affairs In the war department
by offecers in sympathy with
needs nnd wishes of the force,
era! Dickson insisted that in any event
the stales should retain the right to
tise the militiamen In peace times.
Col. M. J. Foreman, commanding
I been captured a few hours after the
raider began her work by taking the
Farringford. I'he ship was named
by a crew of several hundred men,
many of whom had 'it, M. S. Moewe'
on their huts. Others had 11. M. S.
Paw' and in fact, there were half a,
dozen different names. Whenever the
German was after a prize all of us tho First Illinois cavalry and the first
were kept below under guard and wo lino officer of the, guard to be heard,
saw virtually nothing of wluit hap- was emphatic in asserting that If the
pened. 'continental army were organized, In-
" were followed by the raider tercst in the national guard would
for nn hour or two during the after- wnne.
noon, but 1 paid little attention to her "Only the promise that we would
as she appeared to be steaming along be In the firsl line in any war to
easily and when within a few miles come,"' he f.-iid. "has kept us true to
ot us, X made out the British flag at the faith."
her stern. Just nt dusk she fired a : Tin; I'ultcd StaUv 1 1-inch (.mis.
warning' shot and unmasked her hut-J Admiral Strauss told the naval com-
tery and I hove to." ,mittec that the latest 14-Inch guns
Kxcept for minor details all the of the navy, having- a range of 24,000
stories of the captured Appam pas- yards us mounted, or fourteen land
scngers agreed that the liner was four miles, were the equal of the in-inch
days out from Dakar, French West weapons of foreign navies hecuuso of
Africa, for Liverpool, with passengers the greater muzzle velocity. He said
and 8,000 tons of general cargo, when that at target practice Inst year three
she sighted the German January 15. 12-Inch shells were driven through
Tho raider was moving lit a fair rate heavy armor plating at 12,000 yanks,
of speed, but seemingly making n"! The department had not yet decided,
attempt to make for the Appam. Al- the admiral said, whether tho two but
most immediately she began to gain tleships asked for this year would
speed and before Captain Harrison carry ten 16-Inch rifles nr twelve 14-,
was aware that danger impended, the incht. He said the Hammond radio!
German haul changed his course and controlled torpedo was not suitable
sent a. warning shot across the liner's for navy use.
how. Discussing submarine mines. Ad-
Cuptain Harrison immediately h ovo miral Strauss said the general board
'o. The raiders forecastle had fallen had recommended an increase of 5,000;
away, exposing her battery of guns over the number heretofore believed
trained upon the Appam. A small necessary. The Norfolk navy yard Is submarines
boat put out with a boarding party turning out those, of the newest Kng- upon many
and in a short time a prize crew was llsh design, he said, nt a rate of ten
in the possession of the ship. a day which soon will be Increased to
"There were twenty-two men in the twenty,
prize crew under Lieutenant Hergand Turning to n'-w devices being worked
some twenty Germans on board the out for the navy, Admiral Strauss .said
liner bound for prison camps in
land were pressed into service.
Asks People lo Talk Out.
The president said tho time had
come for him to ask his fellow citi
zens to "get up on your hind legs and
talk and tell the people who represent
you what the nation desire and de
mands. "The thing thai everybody in
a democracy is listening fur Is the
the mim',!
Cl en-
RV MORNINO JOURNAL RMCIAL IUII1 Wli
Topcka, Kns., Feb. 2, President
Wilson today asserted the right of
America tin to travel abroad, and their
I right to Ncnd food, cotton and tnanu
factured products lo peaceful popu
lations, "in open neutral markets,"
and "wherver the conditions n( war
make It possible to do ho under tho
; ordinary rules of International law."
"It maye benecessnry to Use tho
force of the United State to vindicate
the rights of American rltutoti to en
Joy h, protection of Intt'i-natlon it
law," he declared emphatically In a
speech before 4,000 person here. He
(urged the support of the people of
Kansas in preparing that force for
j use. If necessary.
Utile ApphniHO cm Arrival. -i
When tho president iirriVed In To
j peka, tho applause which (treeted him
was scattering. In Introducing him,
I Governor Arthur Capper ald frankly
'he thought many persons In Kansas
opposed great armaments. During his
I speech the president declared that if
' Kansas were opposed to preparation
for national defense It was because
some one had misrepresented the ad-
ministration's policy and the audience
Jumped to Its feet to cheer.
I When hn left Topekit thousands
roared a friendly farewell,' '
p, , , 0 it, p, . mere m noining you would. ie
OiateS OOlCliei'S Al'e UOSIIlg quicker bame me for than for neg
lecting u safeguard the rights of
: Americiins; no miittrr'wh'ere they nuiy
i bo In the world," tho president said.
J "There are clearly marked rights
guaranteed by International law which
j every American Is. entitled to enjoy
I and America is not jrolng to abide tho
babllua! or continued neglect of those
; rights.
Hlglil of American Trawl.
"Perhaps not being as near the
ports us some other Americans, you
do not travel ns much and do not real
ize the Infinite number of legitimate
errands upon which Amcricuns travel;
errands of commerce, errands, of re
lief, errands of business for the gov
ernment, errands of every sort which
are making Americana, useful to tho
world. Americans do not travel to
disturb the world. They travel to
quicken the processes of interchange
of life and of goods in the world, and
thf Ir travel here and there ought not
to be Impeded by a reckless disregard
of international obligations.
Have Ulgbt to Sell.
"There Is another thing that
poet to Get His Gold,
RV MORNINO JOURNAL RRICIAL LffAIIR WtRi)
j Kl Paso, Texas, Feb. 2. Patrols of
the Thirteenth cavalry stiilloned at
l Sierra. Illanca, Texas, were ordered
today by General John .1. Pershing,
commanding the Klghth infantry bri
gade at Fort Hliss, lo move closer to
the holder oppo-lte the Itosque I'onlto
country of Chihuahua slate about I
ninety miles east of here, In aiitii-lpa-'
lion of ihe possible flight of General!
Francisco Villa across the international
line al thai point.
j Villa, was reported today making hisl
you want the goods way with sixty puck mules laden Willi I
gold bullion, toward the Mosque Monltn
(country, ('losing in from the south,;
'were reported to be 200 men under j
General Luis Hern-ra, jeffo d'urnicHj
of Chihuahua City, from the east I.leu-j
tenant Colonel Kioja.s with the Karri-1
son from ojlnaga and from the west i
troops from Guadalupe find Juarez un-j
der Major Ortiz, are closing In.
Hecenl reports front western Chi-;
hu.ihiia, seem to confirm the existence
trump! tramp! of the facts.
"I have collie to ask you what is bark
of me in this task of preserving at
once the peace and hootif of this
country." the president said. "The
Judge on the bench has the law be
hind him, with Its bailiffs, sheriffs,
national guardsmen, nnd the I'nted
States army, but, if poy ignore in some
foreign capital what the presidenl
urges ns the rights of the people and
government of Ihe I'nltod States what
is there back of It?
"Il Is necessary that I should come
and ask you ibis question, bivnusc I
don't know liow long I be mere word
and iiisiHcncc of your goicrniiiciit will
pici"il to maintain your honor uml the
dignity and power of Ihe nation.
Tlicro may come a lime pray'
tied i may never come, but if may
come In spile of everything wo can do!
when I shall have lo usk, "I bave said
my say; who stands buck of It? Where
Is the force by which Ihe right and
majesty of Ihe I'nlted States uvr lo !o
vindicated ami asweriod?"
The pi-cslilcnt lbs hired the meil wns
Immediate mid that action should be
begun within the present mouth.
Not a Day lo Iose.
"I assure you there Is not a day
to he lost," he exclaimed. "Not be
cause there is any special crisis, hut
ought to safeguard -and that
right to sell what wn produce
open neutral markets of the
Where there Is a blockade we
of the pack train officially reported ,lu' ''iKht to blockade,
today by General Mertanl, commander
al Madera, to General Gaviia. Those
reports stated that when Villa 1,-fl
Ousihuirliiehlc, January 4, lie look a
train of sixty mules, all unburdened.,
General Hertuni reported to General;
fiavlra. that when he ww the liain a'
few days am, each mule I. ore a bur-i
den which his spies told him was gold'
bullion, t'siially well informed circles'
here dale thai i
executed al La.
we
is our
in tha
world,
there are tho ordinary restraints cre
ated by a slate of war Wo ought to
recognize those restraints, hut the
world needs the wheat off tho Kansas
fields and off the flowering acres of
Hie i'nlted States and w-e hove the
right, to supply the rest of the world
with the products of those fields.
"We have n right to send food to
peaceful populations wherever Con
ner;, I Toinas I ' ! hi nn , ' " 11 " "M l war miiKe It possllde lo u
Neiives by General under the ordinary rules of war.
Fieri .n Villa's ord.-is, bad burled We have a right to supply them with
a quantity of stolen gold bullion on "ur cotton to clothe them. We have
the Snnlii CI.ua n b. Villa until bis;" right to supply them with our man.
break across the Mexican Central rail-' Ufactnred products."
wuv made his headquarters on the1 Thinks Hotter of Kansas.
because I do not know twenty-four
clieail what will happen.
"The future does not depend on ns,
but upon coinanders of ship4 and of
and upon blockades and
other men, big and little.
"I have read editorials" ho said,
"sneering at the number of notes rut
abroad by Ibc gi vei-niiiciit uml uskiu-
why Ihe government .11,1 not act: in flrTrMQIVF AfiAINQT
Vyi I L.MW1VL. IIMIOU I
Santa. Clara ranch.
Track inspectors of the Mexican
,'oi't hwestern rnllrond returning today
on a handcar reported thai yesterday
near Guzman they had been slopped
by a party id twenty armed Mexicans
who claimed to be Carranza soldiers.
The leader of the party Inquired con
cerning the locution and strength of
the variloiiH Carranza garrisons. Gen
eral Gabriel Gaviia, at Juarez, believed
the men were Villa followers since no
Carranza soldiers are In the Guzman
district. Guzman Is ninety miles from
101 I'uso. An additional Indb at ion t hat
bandit forces were moving eastward
out of western chihuahua, was given
by a report in Juarez tonight, that a
croup was sighted at Sari Lorenzo, near
Villa Ahiimada, about thirty miles
south of Juarez ami thai small bridges
on the .Mexican Central bad been
burned today.
these same papers luivc seen editor-
Kng-;a system for salvo fire of torpedoes la Is against Ibc preparation in any-
'from destropers was to be tried, whic h
1 I would cnal le a destroyer lo hurl a
Ahronil. torpedo broadside nt an enemy ship.
-J. J. Morgan The torpedo net. now being manufae-
passage 'lured for the oiknhomn, he said, could
which! not be penetrated by a torpedo, even
It was one equipped with a wire cutting de-
Morgaii (iolng
New Vork, Fell. 2.
Is reported to have booKcd
on tho steamship P.olterdam
sails late today for England.
admitted ut Morgan's office that he, vice. He revealed also that Ihe de
was going abroad, but nothing was partment hud devised a system of un
made known as to the nature of hisjehnred entanglements for use against I
thing vvhutevor. Is that t lie temper i
of the I'nlted States'.' Jt may be Ihe'
leiuper of some editorial officials but' London,
I Know it Is not the temper or the Austro-G
people of the Cnitcd States." 'lonlki'is
A wave of applause swept over the
gathering. A voice In the gallery
cried, "No!" and the crowd yelled
again, "No! No!"
SALONIKI TO
mission.
The president warned his hearers
RV MORNINd JOURNAL RrrCIAL LSAVCO WIRt 1
Feb, 2 (10;0ii p. in.) An
rman offensive against Sa
immiueiit, according to Sa-
loniH iidvlces from a German source
to the HxehnliKc Te'ograph's Athens
correspondent, who says nt Gievgeli
j Struniitza railwuy has been repaired
submarines.
most of the munition factories of the
and that Held Marshal
sen no. Is nt Monastlr,
President Wilson declined frankly
he did not believe reports that Kan
sas was not in sypiputhy with any
policy of preparation for national de.
tense. He said nobody In authority,
nobody in a position lo lead the poli
cy of the country had proposed great
military armaments. There wii
nothing inconsistent with 'he' trad -tk'tis'of
Kansas or the traditions of
America, lie added, in the adminis
tration proposals for national dc-
te.-e.
The Monroe elect line was spoken
of as u handsome guarantee by tho
1'iiitcd Stales i f the rights of nation
al and popular sovereignty on this
side of tlio water In both continents
of the western hemisphere. Noth
ing sustains the honor of the United
Slates in respect to this long cherish
ed policy, the president said, but the
moral and physical force of tho
t'nited States.
Obligation lo Filipino.
He SDOke i,f the hlnril AhoU'n hv
BEGIN nation in freeing Cuba and added
thai, "the American people feel the
same way about ihe rnilippines.
though the rest of the world does not
.vet believe it. We are trustees for
Ihe. Filipino people and Just us soon
as we feel they can take cure of their
own affairs wl'hout our direct Inter
ference and protection, the flag of tht
1'nMed States will again be honored
by th fulfillment of. a. promise."
The president later spoke to an
von Macken-
