!0
I
"At
IK
. (1001) MOIIIX.
The lonilislone's nny we'd reconimrnd
Vty.ench who'd Irnly lie your friend.
tombstone joh will mrcly find
lVhlcJi says of one n tiling unkind.
In storm nml sunshine Just tlio name,
rnwiitr rlnR It holds up one's name.
Yea, though the world nbn e may
frown,
It sticks up for one when lie's down.
Hoston Transcript.
HEUK'S THK ANSWER.
Mr. Hermann Calvert of West Third
; street was tho only one 10 senu in n
correct answer to tlio following
enigma which appeared In Monday's
y papcrV having been contributed by a
-; subscriber:
I am composed of clRhtccn letters,
j, Y,, .My 1-6-4 Is a girl's name.
J2;"mv in-4-3 ta somothlnc costing
. V. lnla rtt mntinv.
" ?5l;r My 18-11-2 is a posltlvo answer.
4," My 17-8-7-4-9 Is a thing young
people do not wnnt.
"5. My 10-15-14-13 Is a musical In
strument. G. My 8-12-5 Is a clinging vine.
My whole Is a question.
The correct answer:
1. Isa.
2. Dam.
3. Yes.
4. Rival.
5. Lyre.
C. Ivy.
Is Maysville very dry?
3P-
KATTEIOIAN-SLATTKHY.
- Thursday morning at 9 o'clock at
St. George's Catholic church at Cin
cinnati, Miss Maria Ilatterman of Cin
cinnati, and Hon. Thomas D. Slattcry
of this city, were united in marriage
Tlio bride is one of Cincinnati's most
brilliant and fairest daughters, while
"the groom is recognized as one of the
leading members of tho Kentucky bar
Many friends and relatives of this city
attended tho wedding.
MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED.
For all grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices aro right. Order
today. Poyntz Bros., Covington, Ky.
Mr. E. n. Dodson of Augusta, was a
business visitor in this city Thursday
Tho following iiameo were omitted
by oversight from tho honor roll print
ed In Tuesday's paper. Wo desire,
especially, to call nttentlon to thorn,
ns any one doing honor roll work cer
tainly deserves having their name
mentioned:
Second drado Joscphliio Trlslor,
John llurwcll, Evans Drubaker, Ful
ton D. Manchester, Julian Lcsler.
Third Grade Joseph Simons, Flor
enco Nash, Ralph" Harover.
Fourth Grade Jean L. Merz, Clan
dyno Melton, Frank Dlcrley, Virgil
Meek, Albert Cobb, Elizabeth Drydcn.
VV. J. CAI'LINGEtt,
Superintendent City School.
Our price this week for butterfat,
31 cents Maysville. Urlng It In any
day, any time of tho day, and rccclvo
your check promptly.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
No. 7,520 won tho dishes at tho
Washington Theater Wednesday night.
If not called for by Friday another
drawing will bo held.
Mrs. Charles Walker died at 11
o'clock Wednesday morning at her
homo In Murphysvllle from dropsy
at tho ago of 59, hnvlng been born Oc
tober 5, 1857. Sho was born near Mur
physvllle. Sho Is survived by her hus
band, Mr. Charles Walker: ono sister,
Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson, and one
brother, Mr. Pat McCartney.
Funeral services at Shannon at 11
o'clock Friday morning, conducted by
Rev. Maurlco Walker. Interment in
tho Shannon ccmetory.
Tho Loulsvlllo Times' cartoonist had
a picture In Monday's paper labeled
"Rep. H. P. Purnoll, Mason county.'
If Harry will catch that cartoonist and
give him what he deserves for making
such a picture ho will look like some
thing the cat came dragging in.
Mr. Robert Adair, Miss Mao Llston
and Mr. and Mrs. W. II. Rces arc in
Cincinnati where they attended the
Ratterman-Slattcry nuptials.
:The Great
January Clearance Sale
AT
J. WESLEY LEE'S
Of Men's and Boys' Clothing,
Furnishings and Shoes
was a wonderful success, far beyond our expecta
tion, which proves to us that the public appreci
ates a real bargain event such as we have given
them.
In our Clothing Department ONLY the
same EXTREMELY LOW PRICES will con
tinue through the month of February.
We still have a lot of Men's $15 Suits at
$3.98 and Youths' Suits at fq9&, butwthey won't
last long. Come quick.
J. WESLEY LEE
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR (915
We wish to thank our many friends and customers for their liberal patronage for this,
our fourth year in business, which has proven to bo considerable beyond oar anticipate, for
which we are very thankful.
We are now looking forward to a greatly increased business the coming year ad wa
have installed the latest and roost improved equipment for handling your orders, which guar
antees high grade mill work and satisfaction to all, at the best possible prices.
We are leaders in our line.
THE MASON LUMBER COMPANY "WBftiT
TAFFY FULLING.
a. a. Mclaughlin.
l. n. rehax.
(HIIHIJ,
f HOBBIES
Jj A prominent physician tells us Hint "hobbies" are healthy Q
H tilings for us to have, and we feel that we must be blessed with
Jj unusually good health, as we have ALWAYS had a hobby g
and it's
I HARNESS! I
.
' Years ago, when leather sold for nineteen cents a pouud, 5
gg our boast was that we made the best harness that could bo
fl made of good leather, good thread and good workmanship,
Now, when that same kind of leather is selling for forty-nine
and fifty cents a pound, we still maintain that we have the
best harness that can he made. All you have to do to provo
that we are telling you facts is to go to tlio next "sale," and
hear Col. Kensley Hawkins sny in that musical drawl for which Jj
he is so famous, "This is n set, gentlemen, of Miko Brown's
Harness. What do you bid?" Then's when you can see tho
farmer ".set tip and ako notice," for ho knows there will bo
some bidding on that harness.
This is the time. (if tho year, when Harness is foremost in
every farmer's mind, and this is the timo of tlio year, also,
when we arc ready to sell him. All winter long our men havo
been making tip harness for Spring trade, and now w arc
ready. Of course, it's higher than when our grandfathers
used to buy it, but, considering tho price of leather, it's a
wonder how low in price and high in quality tho Square Deal
harness is.
Come in, gentlemen, we are ready to rig up those horses.
MIKE BROWN
An old-fashioned taffy-puling will
be enjoyed by those who attend the
social at the Christian church tonight
from 7 to 9. Tho good social times
that have been recently had at the so
cials given in this church by the va
rlous organizations bespeaks another
enjoyable time tonight. This social,
though given by the Endcavorors, Is
for the whole church and all the
friends of the church. Every ono will
be made to feel welcome. The meet
ing will bo in the junior department's
room, but tho taffy pulling will bo In
tho church basement, which Is an Ideal
place. Let all who come enter the
sldo door.
KEY. OEOItGE II. HARRIS' 3I0THEII
DEAD.
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN
EVERYONE LIKES THE FLAVOR OF WHEATINA
wuv iwu 1. 1 it- i . it im anivL'u vitv nuvlvultiv imAiirvu
..... T mi u.iii l AljHilUfci (1 pvuiiin im hubmoioi tnvnui.Ai
I JL'ST TAWED ANOTHKK BANKEL OF THE FINEST NEW OKLKANM
VWUML AOONXAD
Rev. George II. Harris, rector of St.
Peter's Episcopal church at Paris, and
for several years rector of tho Church
of the Nativity In this city, received o
telegram Monday announcing the
death of his mother, Mrs. Anne J. Har
ris, which occurred in Birmingham,
Mich. Mrs. Harris Is survived by
three sons, Rev. Qcorgo H. Harris of
Paris, Ky.; Mr. Charles Harris of Sac
ramenta, Cal., and Mr. Fred Harris of
Birmingham, Mich. Rev. Harris left
for Birmingham to attend the funeral
and during his absenco his pulpit at
St. Peter's Episcopal church at Paris
will bo filled by Bishop Burton of Lexington.
.MASKED DANCE IX XKAR Fl'TUBK.
Somo timo during Uie latter part of
this month the Maysvlllo Assembly
Dancing Club will glvo their annual
masked ball. This affair Is looked for
ward to with great pleasure by tho
younger set of the city. Tho commit
tee In charge of tho evening Is pre
paring many surprises and a large
crowd Is already promised. A noted
orchestra has been secured and a pro
fessional costumcr will be obtained.
Nowport, Ark., tho city to which Rov.
R L. Bcnn of this city, was called to a
pastorate, was almost depopulated last
Tuesday, Tho paper said over 6,000
of Its Inhabitants loft on the trains
just before tho Whlto river flooded tho
city Wator la from ten to fourteen
feet doop In tho houses In the city.
Ruv. Demi, however, knows what a
flood means, having been hero In the
1013 disaster.
Tho river continues to rite at tbli
point, havlug reached a ntase of 40.8 t
8 o'clock Thursday morning. From
Indication nbqvo about all the bit
water I' bera,
How the Wg Concerns Relieve "Ad
vertising Pars" In The
Pnlille Ledger i
In this Issue of The Public Ledger
you will find a doublo-pago advertise
ment of Tuxedo tobacco to which wo
Invite the attention of all Interested.
This Is tho largest slnglo advertise
ment that has over appeared In The
Ledger and we feel that It ia a com
pliment to ourselves when tho out-of-town
ndvortlscrs recognize the rhorit
of our columns ns nn advertising me
dium. "Big trees from little acorns grow,"
and thus It is with thoso who bollove
in advertising. Tho Tuxedo pcoplo be
lieve In advertising their product
Tuxedo tobacco nnd bring It before
tho eyes of thoso who uso tobacco.
This concern Is today enjoying the
largest business in Its history and ad
vertising did It.
Hero Is a moral that should apply jo
every business local as well ns other
wise. If you want to grow ADVER
TISE A-D-V-E-R-T-I-S-E nnd keep
on advertising.
What mado Uneeda BIbcuH? Ad
vertising. What made Castorla? Advertising.
What made the Waterman pen?
Advertising.
What made a hundred other well
known products of manufacture? Ad
vertising. Rut uiherlfolng Is not all. The ad
vertiser must havo the quality behind
the article advertised. And give the
people what they pay for good goods
with merit fo them.
Any merchant can do this and make
a success "if ho will but try. Start
with advertising In The Daily Public
Ledger now.
Wo thank tho American- Tobacco
Company for this business and com
mend their product to all as being a
worthy article with merit to It. Try
Tuxedo tobacco and you'll bo delighted
with its flavor.
Miss Llda Duko Woods has return
ed to Danville after a visit with her,
parents, Mr. nnd Mrs. James M
Woods of Forest avenue.
Mr. Robert Prathcrt Detroit, Mich.,
ts-visltlng relatives In fhls city. " "
Captnln Con Phlstcr is spending sev
eral days In Cincinnati.
warchouso at tho cor
ner of Poplnr and Front streets Is ns
woll known ns any tobacco houso In'
tho White Burloy section. Its man-j
agemcnt nnn always sought to treat
both the farmer and buyer with cour
tesy and kindness. It brings them
together upon a eommon, ground nnd
tho farmer feels that his Interests aro
the Interests of the warehouse; tho
buyer feels tho crops aro just as they
arc represented nnd when ho buys he
gets tho goods ho expects. Tho farm
er and buyer aro hero placed on a
platform of good will and each appre
ciates the tho position of tho other,
as a glanco at Its sales records for this
season will show. This year's man
agement is. ono of tho best of Its his
tory. JIAXY ATTEND Fl'XERAL.
HIHIHIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHII
fDILL PICKLESl
In Rill lr 1 C Pnntc rAnian 5
m
Just Tapped A Barrel of Extra Fancy e? rii.
NEW ORLEANS MOLASSES DOC LiallOIl
DINGER BROS.,
107 West Second Street,
Phone 20.
Mr. R. h. Hocfllch leaves for .Vow The Settlement Club will meet this
York Saturday. afternoon at 2:30 at 21G Court street.
Tho funeral of Mrs. Margaret ChlldB
who died at her homo on tho Maysville
nnd Mt. Sterling pike Monday morning,
wns held from tho latq residence on
Wednesday nftcrnoon, Rev. John Bar
bour of tlio First Presbyterian church,
being In charge. Interment In the
Maysville cemetery. A large number
of friends and relatives were In attendance.
1 LOOK HERE! 3
Q Why Go to the Trouble and Kxpense of Ordering From a City
When We Have a Complete Line of
Trusses, Crutches $ Abdominal Supports
2 At a Reasonable Price. See Us. 5
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY S
Mrs, Wood Owens entertained the
Whist Club Wednesday.
Mrs, A. O. Tnylor entertains with u
COO party Thursday
THE HOME DF QUALITY GLDTHEB
Overcoat Weather
I ..(II . .J WT - .1 . mm
is sun in strong evidence, we conunue selling mem at zo
to 60 less than they will be bought for next season. The
style of them is the same as next season's. You will pat your
self for having bought one this season when you see the price
they will sell for next fall and winter.
The same holds good in Mackinaws, Raincoats and Suits.
Our stock of Rubber Coats, Shoes and Arctics is yet in
good shape. We can fit you in any of them.
Embrace the opportunity and supply your wants.
3d: aicEioiiasroBR. &. co.
COMINGS IMPORTANT Hj"VE33STT
Hunfs Linen Sale February 3rd
Iu spite of war prices. In spite of scarcity of goods. In spite of almost insurmountable obstacles, next Thursday wo will present
a stock of linens that will challenge comparison In quality, quantity and prices with any store in a town three times the sizo of
Maysville. .
And n fact of greatest importance is that positively no advanco in prices has been made. In yardage linen and In scparato pieces
of linen, "before-the-war" prices havo been maintained.
Low Prices an All Mussed Underwear
From use in ledge and window display, we have somo nightgown?, princess slips, corset cover and drawer combinations that need a
trip to the laundry, bo wo havo repriced them very low.
$1.50 Mull or Lawn Slips, lavender or blue, now 75c. Not many.
Nightgowns handsomely trimmed reduced as follows: $1.25 gowns $1.00. $1.50 gowns $1.25. $3 gowns $1.50.
Corset Cover-and-Drawer Combinations trimmed In lace or embroidery. $2 Combinations $1.00. tl.25 Combinations 75c.
Ready-tn-Wear Bargains
This season's garments. $25 Suits for $12',i and $20 Sutts for $10. Not many for bargains like these sell fast.
A few silk and velvet and all-Bilk dresses reduced as follows: On.c $22 dress for $11.25. Ono $19.50 dress for $9.75, Two $17.50
dresses $8.75. Threo $15 dresses $7.50.
About a dozen plush coats. They aro all tho finest quality Salt's plush tho soft, lustrous toxturo that looks llko fur. They nro now
priced $10 to $19 which represents a saving of 33 to 50.
Smart wool coats In black and colors. $7, $3 and $9 for $10 to $15 Coats.
GARMENTS NOT THIS SEASON'S.
Black suits of high grade matorlal with coats lined throughout with best quality Skinner's satin, $5. A few colored suits for $3.9S.
Coats up to $25 for $5. Fino all-wool coatings skillfully tailored.
Separato skirts of strictly all-wool fabrics for $1, original prices $6 to $9.
WANTED.
Second-hand desk and cabinet.
Ledger Publishing Company.
See
.Mr. William Trouts, Jr., Is In Cin
cinnati attending tho opera, with
friends.
Mrs. A. C. Itespess has returned
home after a visit to Mrs. Feu and Miss
Rogers.
Col. J. L. Campbell of Ripley, was a
business visitor in Maysvlllo Wednesday.
jCome to the Big Sale
Don't Mind the Weather
You can buy a Ladies' Suit at half price, a Ladies' or Child's
S Coat at half price, a Dress at a ridiculous price.
J There are bargains all over the store so you had better come arill
2 buy while goods are low.
5 Remember, We repair Shoes while you wait.
u
3
J"
