r
February 3, 1018.
THR CITIZEN
Pag Tlr
The citizen
Devoted to th.e Interests of ttie HVCoxntLln IPeople
BKR.EA PUBLISHING CO.
(INCORPORATED!
wm. c. frost. twelCMl
C. M. WCRTENBUtGUl. Maaaataf Uttar
F. O. BOWMAN, Atot Mih(
Knowledge I power od the
way to keep up with modern
knowledge is to read a good
newspaper.
Mml ( IV fit nfirt i MfTM, A f , iiunW
Vol. XVII.
Five Cent a Copy.
HKMEA. MADISON COUNTY, KE.VN'CKV. FEWltWIlY X fOlrt.
One Dollar a Year.
No. rw.
: r
Bringing Up Children
This is something nearly every household has to do.
And parents bring up but one family in a life time,
and rarely have a chance to do it over again. We ought
to study about it a good deal when we first begin.
The master rule for bringing up children right is to
keep them busy.
It is a wise old proverb that says, "Satan finds some
mischief still for idle hands to do."
Is it just lovely to see how children love to do things.
The boy wants to hold the lines, drive the cows and
swing an axe long before he is able to do such things.
And the little girl is eager to cook and sew and be a
woman, h it not strange that we older people are not
wise enough to satisfy these desires of our children and
lead them on from one task to another so that they shall
enjoy their work and be glad of the pleasure it brings.
And the most interesting and important work is not
always with the hands. Children also love to solve prob
lems and guess riddles and use their minds. Somehow
this passion for learning gets starved out and disappoint
ed and the child that at ten is eager and interested at
twenty is stupid or erverse.
There are many olher things that a parent has to
study over but the master rule for bringing up children
right is to keep them happily busy.
REPORT OF THE CONGRESS ON) Commission V. Women's Work.
CHRISTIAN WORK IN LATIN Chairman. Miss Belle H. Dennett.
AMERICA President Women's Missionary Coun-
'oil. Methodist Episcopal Church,
A New Day for Latin America I South, Richmond, Kentucky.
Simultaneous with the political' Commission VI. The Church in the
and commercial development of La- Field. Chairman. The Rev. Homer
tin America, is coming a proportion-'C
tie .levciopmeui 01 ..mis,,..,, ..,...,... ;w,n r.,Mu,..
in Latin America. The gathering at Church. Duenos Aires : from now on on the Dixie Highway
Panama. February 10th to 20th til6. Commission VI L The ome Kase. Wav.-Winrhester Sun.
of several hundred representative Chairman. Harry Wade Hicks. Gen-,
men and women from various flel.ls eral Secretary. Missionary Educa- Major Relburn Acquitted
of Christian endeavor, interested in lion Movement. New York. j pornir faVor of Middleshoro.
the Christianiration of Latin Ameri-1 Commission VIII. Cooperation and Maj F s n,.nrn xvn, nrquitted on
fa, means new life, new teal, and the Promotion of Unity. Chairman, the charge of killing Alf Farmer on
new adjustment to the problems thatThe Rev. Charles L. Thompson, D. D..t,ip o,,,,,), fht hP was justified in
are already existent there, and those ; President Home Missions Council, (lkjn(f (m0 jife of parmer to save the
that are to come from new political j New York. ,,jf(, of j po Renneboum. The exam-
and commercial relationships. These Commissions have been car- jnjn(r frin wa, no before the tnw-
For many months eight different i rying on a correspondonce at great jpajp, of pjneville and Middles
Commissions have been studying the! length with people in various parts j(((ro Farmer ui, assaulted a wn
fl que t ions related to this part of the of the world having facts about La- n,an'jn rommissary of the Yellow
Western Continent, with a view totin America, to the end that their Cro,k 0(tl,anv nennebaum .an
securing exact information in order Reports might be complete. Sec- on ,ovp of , ompanv .endeavored
that the very best recommendations lions of these Reports have been to lnakp Farlll)ir rM, FarniPr (,..
might be made for future Christian written by men eminent in their p), M Mm BmJ flfw a gh()t whpn
work in Latin America. These Com-, particular fields, such as Professor .,,.,,. ,,, Fi,rmpr. Helburn is
missions, with their Chairmen, are Monroe of Columbia University, New 1 murh inpn,sfp, jn (np coal devel-MfH-:
, I York City; .r Josiah Strong of, n , ,hp Mi(WlMlhoro t(.rri.
Commission I Survey and Ocett- Washington; President Henry C. ,
r m 1 1
panon. i.uairniHii, r.. I . ioimii. wr-
retary International Committee of
Ynunir Men's Christian Association,
New York
Commission II. Message and Meth-!
od. Chairman. The Right Rev. Wil-1
liam Cabell Drown. D D.. Protestant
Fnisconnl nishon Coadiutor of Vir-'
ginia. Richmond.
Commission III -F.lncnf ion Clinir-
man. Professor Donald C. MacLaren.'them.
Former President of Mackensie Co-
lege. New York.
Commission IV. Literature. Chair-
man. Professor Andres Osuna. Di-!
rector of the Department of Public
Instruction of the Federal District,
Mexico.
CONTENTS
PAGE I. Fditorial: fringing I'p
Children. Report of the Congress
on Christ ian Work in Latin
America. Our Own Slate News.
United Stales New s.U. World
and War News.
PAGE 3. Derea College Department
al Page.
PAGE S. Serial. "Lai ia." Liter
ature for Rural Schools. Story:
A Clever Ruse.
PAGE 4. Locals.
PAGE S. Local Itemsj-IVath of Dr.
L. A. Davis.
PAGE 6. Mountain Agriculture:
Derea Farmers' Meeting. Our
Stale Experiment Station. Cin
cinnati Markets. Honor for New
British OfficiaU-Home Depart
ment. State Tuberculosis Con
ference and Exhibit. The Orow.
ing Use of Fruit in Diet. Tra-1
rhoma- Retouching
Made.
the Ready
PAGE 7
International Sunday
Schottl Lesson. Spread Sun-
shine. St. Valentine's Ray
Science. Invention.
PAGE I. East Kentucky News.
Lincoln's Rirthday.
You may talk about circulating
your ideas and plans by other means
but nothing has been found so suc
cessful as the newspaper that goes
into the homes and it read by every
member of the household. Our ad-1
i
StunU, D.D.. Itishon
of South
t-: M. I : . r ; . I n I f rvn.1f i
mug 01 i n ! 1 1 11 , i in-ui .
'las Mackensie of Hartford; and Pres.
ident C. T. Paul of Indianapolis.
The Reports of these eight Com-,
missions, together w ith the discus-1
sions and finding of the Panama
'Congress, will be printed in three
volumes of about SV) rages each,
oust as soon after the close of the
Cnnirress as it is possible to edit
These three volumes will be sold
at 12.50, carriage extra. For all sets
ordered in advance, the price is
2.00. carriage extra.
Send all orders to
Missionary Education Movement, i
irifi Fifth Avenue. New York City.
i-Artiuim nrkliimna 1PA rninminArii1.
ed by those who have tried them
and we invite you to make your
wants known through these columns.
" I
Have you read how the Texas
Senator "Cyclone" Davis made his
maiden speech against prepared-'
ness? Nothing would stop him till he
had made bis speech. So it is with
The Citizen; nothing will stop ft
from growing and becoming better .
till there is no more room. You
must not think just because you are I
not a subscriber or do not believe in
advertising that The Citizen is going
to cease to do good and be like you.
We are out to help the other fellow;
are you?
If you have never thought or
er cared to think about our State
r.xperimeui siuuou aim wiint a vai
iinhlA null if la in mil ft( nfn nlunaa '
read the article on the farm page
of this issue.
Why not celebrate Lincoln's birth-
lay this year in a way that you nev.
er did before. We cannot do toojgomo of tne ianie parties suffered
mucn nonor i inose wno nave:in8)ip.
meant so much to us all. Your re
minder of the occasion is on page
eight.
You will not forget about Valen
tino Dav if von read this issue
carefully. We shall be glu.l to
ceive your valentine In the form of1'u,'l'ar,, mUet of three genera
a subscription, on or before or even
alter that date.
IN OUR OWN STATE
I About 1,(1) io,(XiO feel of walnut luin
i Imt was destroyed by a lire near
Pikesville. It is supposed to lie Hie
' rnaulf rt t mn tm'f.ml inrv
1 .
The I,. A N. Railroad Company is
said to tie planning to furnish
; through fast train service between
I Louisville and Mcllolierts, in the fnr
Eastern Kentucky roal Ileitis near
the Virginia border, probably in the
next sixty flays.
That the killing of Fred I. Ewald
by letir Campbell, a labor leader, at
a meeting in Keek's Hall, where
F.wald attempted to quell a distur
bance, was in self-defense and the
beat of passion was the verdict on
the 27th of a Coroner's jury.
1
Contributions amounting to $5,000
were made in Louisville on the J7lh
to the Jew ish Relief Fund. The cam
paign in a modified form will be con
tinued. Election Valid
There is general rejoicing through-
I.
given by Judge Itethurum in the Cir
cuit Court here this morning declar
ing the road bond election held Inst
J April to be valid. Suit was filed
'shortly after the election by the
anti-road faction to declare the elec
tion illegal. This movement has de-
layed road construction more than
,,.,,,.-, Woik h ri.s,10)l
1
Shooting at Kettle Island
Jim Gilliam was shot and perhaps
mortally wounded by his father-in
law, John Gnylor. of Kettle Island
n Wednesday night or last week
Gilham came to the home of his wife
w ho had left him. It is said he had
been drinking, and ordered admis
sion to the house. This was ref us-
!"1 hy C.aylor who ordered him away.
He undertook to force his way in
when he was shot by Cay lor tear-
ing away a portion of his jaw bone
He was released on bond to await
the action of the grand jury which
will convene on the 7th of February.
Estill Gusher Struck
Recently the Wood Oil Company
"P0"0''
a well on the Jesse MeKen
nev tract that is turning out oil at
the rate of twenty-five barrels per
day. Resides the oil it Is said to be
giving out one half million cubic
feet of natural gas per day. A num-
her of transfers of leases in the land
tracts during the past week, and
many new leases are being taken
out. Everything indicates that there
will be a vast extension of the oil
interests as soon as the weather
settles in the spring,
PineritU Suffers a $20,000 Loss By
rire
Tuesday morning of last week at
about three o'clock the L. & N.
freight depot, the restaurant and
rooming place house of Frank Amos
n.t lb. Uillul I.I....L I. il,n
nev-1, llliriww1 i, .,u ih.
flre oriBina,P(1 jn tne res(allr.
ant and spr a I beyond control be
fire it ui diHcovered. The loss f
the railroad company is hard to es
timate. The building represents a
loss of 95,000 while it is not exactly
known how much freight was de
stroyed. In 1907 a similar flre oc-
cured on this same spot in which
Eligiblle for Carnegie Pension
B. F. Evans of Ciarrard County
bears an unusual record as a local
pedagogue. During his forty years
of service in this capacity he has
taught 302 mouths and enrolled un-
ro-i4,,'r '" 2643 f hi Wren, representing
lions. On account of this service M
comes under the class of teacher
l.o are el'ril'le fur a Carnegie funo
II, S, NEWS
The battleships Texas and Wyom
ing of the Atlantic lleet talked by
wireless telephone to one another.
It was the llrst lime this bad been
attempted between ships.
I
Committees of the House and Sen
ale are speeding up their work in
response to President Wilson's re
quest, and there is prospect that
Congress may adjourn before the
nntional conventions in June, as he
wishes.
Cien. Nelson A. Miles, before the
Military Committees on the 30) li.
suggested the federalization of the
militia as a basis of increase in the
army. The Post-office Appropria
tion Kill as reported to the House
provides a substantial increase for
the rural route service.
The United State has made prep
arations for immediate war so far as
the navy is concerned, but the army
as at present constituted is not large
enough for the duties of peace, Pres
ident Wilson declared in an address
at the Auditorium in Chicago on the
night of the 30th.
The United States Fuel Ship
"Mars" arrived in San Diego the
middle of January carrying 150 tons
of the government exhibit which
will be displayed at the Panama
California International Exposition
through the entire year 1916. The
government will participate in the
1916 Exposition to as great an ex
tent as in San Francisco. At least
a half-dozen government bands, and
artillery, cavalry, marine, and in
fantry troops will be on the Expo
sition grounds during the year.
The scope of the San Diego Expo
sition has been increased so great
ly for 1916 that the directors have
found it necessary to change the
name to read, "Panama-California
Intemationl Exposition'. Canada,
Russia, France, Italy, Germany.
Austria. Brazil, The Netherlands,
and Switzerland, are installing big
displays the greater part of them
brought from the San Francisco
Exposition. Other features of the
beautiful Exposition have been en
larged so that the dedication of the
new Exposition, March 15, is more
than a matter of form.
U. S. NAVY NOW
READY FOR WAR
Wilson Says No Time Must
Be Lost In Defense.
ARMY IS MUCH TOO SMALL
"We Mean Business," Declaree the
Preeldent In Speaking of the Pre
paredneee Plane of the Admlnletre
tlon Not Thinking of Any Invasion.
Chlcao. Feb. 1. The United BUtee
has made preparations for Immediate
war as far as the nary la concerned,
although the present naval force Is
Inadequate In size. President Wilson
declared In an address before several
thousand pereons In the Auditorium
here.
"We mean business," he Mild, la
speaking of the preparedness plans of
the administration.
"We have given to the preeent Beet
of the United Statee an organisation
such aa It never had before, I am
told by Admiral Fletcher," the preel
dent said. "And we have made pre
paration for Immediate war, eo far as
the navy la concerned."
The army, the preeldent said, aa at
present constituted, "Is not large
enough even for the ordinary duties
of peace."
The president repeated his warn
ings that no time must be loet In
strengthening the defenses of the na
tion. "We are not now thinking of In
vasion of the territory of the United
States," the president declared. "That
la not what Is making us think. We
are not asking ourselvee shall we be
prepared only to defend our own
homes and our own shoree.
"Is that all we stand for? To keep
the door shut securely against our
enemtee? What about the great trua
teeshlp set up for liberty of nation
government la the whole western
hemisphere T"
At Milwaukee the president was
greeted by the largest audience of his
gresejii trip. to. whom ha djc!tred.the
(Coiiuuund on Ptge rive)
NO ARBITRATION
WITH GERMANY
I). S. Rejectad Proposal In
Lusitania Case,
HOPEFUL OF SETTLEMENT
Nothing Official Received From Berlin
Controversy Situation le Not Re
garded ae Necessarily Dangerous.
Washington. Feb. 21. The United
States bas completely shut off any
hope of a settlement of the Lusltsnla
case with Germany through the ma
chinery of International arbitration.
The refusal to arbitrate, it Is under
stood from an official source. Is bssed
on the ground that the vital Interests
and national honor of the United
States being Involved, the matter waa
One which could not be submitted to
arbitration.
It was the second time each a pro
posal baa been turned down and It
was rejected Anally at the laat con
ference which the secretary of state
had with Ambassador Bernstorff.
The first proposition wss made soon
after the Lusltsnla waa sunk. At that
time It was rejected on the ground
that the United States had no assur
ances that pending an arbitral decision
by The Hague court to which Ger
many proposed to submit the dispute,
Germany would not continue sinking
merchant vessels without warning.
Subsequently, however, Germany In
formed the United Statee that she had
rescinded her former orders to sub
marine commanders and that hence
forth the rules of international law
requiring due warning and care for
the safety of passengers and crewa
would be strictly llvel up to.
At the last conference with M.
Lansing and in the light of the assur
ances Just referred to, it Is said Count
on rsernatorff renewed the proposi
tion, the sole question to be submit
ted to arbitration being that relating
to disavowal.
Germany, he said, greatly deplored
the loss of American lives on the
Lusitania and waa willing to demon
strate the extent of her regrets by
paying an indemnity. She could not,
the ambassador Insisted, admit that
the attack without warning on the
Lusitania waa Illegal
Tbla attack, he Is said to have In
sisted, was a reprisal against Great
Britain's Illegal blockade.
Secretary Lansing, It Is understood,
held that the right of Americana to
be on board the Lusitania could not
be questioned: and that their right to
protection under International law, ac
corded to neutrals on the high seas
and was too firmly established to ad
mit of debste. That thla principle
should be acknowledged by Germany
In any settlement of the Lusitania
case, the secretsry Insisted, waa a
matter of vital Interest to thla coun
try and that, therefore, the United
States could not. with self-respect,
eubmlt to arbitration.
While conflicting press reports con
tinue to come from Berlin as to the
reply which Germany will instruct
Count von Bernstorff to make to tba
final proposals of Mr. Lansing, neither
at the atate department nor the Ger
man embassy has any official forecast
been received.
In official circles the eituatlon was
described as "unchanged, still grave,"
hut not necessarily dangerous.
MARRIAGE BELLS ARE RINGING
Prosperity Given aa Cause Per Boom
In Marriagee.
New York, Feb. 1. Prosperity baa
set the marriage belle to ringing more
merrily than ever, at least In this
town. In the laat few months appli
cation a for licensee at the office of
City Clerk Scully In the Municipal
building have ahown the Influence of
the boom, and are going up.
Absolutely accurate figures for Jan
uary were not available at present,
but It waa estimated that 3.000 had
applied for the bit of paper that is
necessary to add two and two and
make one. In January, 1915, only
f,73 applied, but 115 waa the "off
set" year matrimonlarly since the
bureau started, largely because of
hard times.
10.000 GIRLS ON A STRIKE
Children's Dresemskers In New York
Walk Out
New York. Feb. 1. A general strike
of children's dressmakers, Involving
10,000 girla atarted In a walk-out ot
workera employed In three hundred
shops in Manhattaa and Brooklyn.
According to union leaders' eatl
mates, as many more bouse dress,
wrapper and kimono makers will join
the ranks of the strikers iu a few
days. The strike also affects COO cut
lers la the trades worked by the In
ternational Ladles' Garment Workers
union.
WORLD NEWS
London and Paris are again being
subjected to attacks Trotn Zeppelins
and aeroplanes. The Oermans are
said to he trying out some improved
kinds that they expect will he more
effective than those used before.
1
The German armies in Russia are
suffering from the heavy rains
which flood the low and marshy
lands lying on the border of Russia
to the west. I,nrge guns, supplies
for the army and many lives are re
ported lost.
England persists in her purpose to
stop American mails that go through
the English channel on the ground
that such mail often contains ma
terial which is contraband of war.
The only way to avoid the search is
to send the mails by the northerly
route around Scotland. During the
past week mails coming from Hol
land and even Switzerland have also
been stopped for the first time.
The cause of lemnerance is heing
greatly advanced by the European
j War. Russia has prohibited the
manufacture and sale of "vodka" her
favorite drink; France has prohibit
ed the manufacture and sale of "ab
sinthe"; the English King has ban
ished liquor from the royal palace as
an example to his nation; Germany,
Austria and Italy have limited the
use of liquor by early closing of
drinking places and by other means.
Vigorous lighting along the fron
tier between Germany and France
is reported. Germany is responsi
ble for the renewed activity. Some
gains have been made in places, but
nothing of a decisive nature has tak
en place.
There is much concern noticeable
in the week's reports in regard to
the attitude of Sweden in Europe. It
is thought her ruler is seeking to
force her into the aljiance with
Germany and Austria. This may be
possible because of her long stand
ing enmity for Russia and because
of her irritation at England's policy
of stopping the mails and commerce
to and from Sweden.
1
A revival of religion in some of the
European countries is one of the
features of the time. This is espec
ially true in England and France.
Lavedaro, a noted infidel and Jour
nalist of France, has recently come
out for Christianity and is using his
influence for its spread among his
peoples.
FRENCH HALT
GERMAN DRIVE
Make Unsuccessful Effort to
Gain Lost Ground.
ZEPPELINS IN NEW RAID
Another Defeat of the Turka In the
Caucaeue by the Rueeiana Is Re
portedFrench and British Claim
Minor Gains.
London. Feb. 1. Unceasing violent
attempt by ihe Germane to follow up
the auocessee they gained In the laat
two days in their new offensive on
the western front were beaten baok
by the French. The German war of
fice etatement claims no further galna.
The ground won by the Teutons in
their new onelaugbta on the four geo
graphically separated seotlons of the
front, remain, however, firmly In their
hands.
The French, during the laat twenty
four hours, launched determined
oounter attache on the German Unea
In an effort to wrest back from the
Teutons the lout ground, but In vain.
Tbua, the new German westers of
fensive appeara to have been, for the
Immediate present at leaat, halted.
The Germane, however, kept hammer
ing the French lines with unabated
violence, aad they seem bent upon
adding to their gains at all cost. Tbey
made two attacks on the French lines
la the Arras aector, southwest ot HUl
140, near the Vtmy heights, which
command the Important Arras-Lens
road.
The German official statement de
clares that "fighting activity has some
what decreased" and aaortbea ttla to
the misty weather. Thla la take to
Indicate that they will renew their
general offensive aa soon aa the
weather gemot - ...
(UMiuoued ea Pss Five)
