S3?8 TI,8tor2'7c'ety
m Second St
Ashland
'Ashland Grows While Lithia flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
IDINGS
Ashland, Oregon, LKhla Springs
"The Carlsbad of America"
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, FEIMUARY 3
VOL. XL
I91G
NUMBER 73
Poolroom Law Goes
Over Mayor's Veto
The city council by a vote of (our
to two passed the ordinance removing
the licenses from theatres and pool
halls over the mayor's veto at Tues
day evening's council meeting. Coun-j
China New Year
Banquet Lacks Kick
Firecrackers and the dull booming
of gongs announced th9 coming of
the China New Year In the local Chi
natown last night and the night be
fore, for despite adopting the "ways
cilmen Banta, Root, Nlninger and i of the white man" the yellow people
Lamb voted In favor of removing the ; have century old superstitions inocu
licenses, Councllmen Ashcraft and j lated In their natures which demand
Cornelius voting no. that they shall "drive tho devils
The ordinance removing the J away" wth noise and burning pow
licenses was passed at the last meet- der on tho China New Year.
Ing but was vetoed by the mayor and j The local celebration lacked some
came up again Tuesday. Recorder: of the features of those of bygone
Gillette read the mayor's reasons for years when the entire population of
his veto. This statement was pub- Ashland made a pilgrimage to Wah
lished in the Tidings of last Thurs
day. The mayor then stated that he
wished to lay especial emphasis upon
the fact that extra police work was
needed for the pool halls and stated
that he believed tho pool halls
should be required to bear this ex
pense by licensing instead of the tax
payers, lie stated that a part of the
reason for the third man on the po
lice force during the past year was
to give the pool halls needed atten
tion. Mr. Root stated that he had made
It a point to spend considerable time
In the pool halls since the last meet
ing, and outside of tobacco smoke,
found nothing to which anyone could
object. He stated that as the Ash
Chung's on China New Year and par
took of Chinese nuts and candies and
watched the fireworks. The great
difference was in the banquet, which
is the central feature of the New Year
celebration, and at which every man
ner of dish from the Flowery King
dom Is served.
What's the use of banqueting on
bird's nest soup, shark's fin and oth
er delicacies if the edibles can not be
washed down with good old wine Im
ported from Canton Alas, rice wine,
plum wine and other ancient drinks
which go down like water but biteth
like the serpent and kicketh like the
mule, can not be served at the
spreads.
"Gum sing," which means "hot-
Pompadour Mineral Springs Co.
Will Build Lithia Bottling Plant
Prof. Charles G. Anthony, consult-1 tling plant on the property of his
Ing engineer to the New York state company, iiml that when name are fin
reservation commission at Saratoga I lslled actlve construction work will
Springs, N. Y., who was brought to be"n--
the Rogue River valley by the Pom- . S J, a fireat deaI to Ash"
land. There is a great demand for
padour Mineral Springs Company to bottled wal un(, t0 th,
examine and report on their springs time no satisfactory bottling on a
near Ashland, returned to New York large sralo has been Indulged In
Tuesday. He. Is more than enthusias
tic over the wonderful possibilities of
resort and mineral water develop
ment here.
In an Interview given to the Grants
Pass Courier, George W. Soranson,
president of the Pompadour Mineral
Springs Company, states that Profes
sor Anthony has been commissioned
to prepare plans and specifications
for the building of gas plant and hot-
Much of ti.e water bottled with hand
machine is cloudy, a defect which
will be removed with proper apparatus.
The development of the gas means
even more to Ashland. The demand
for this !,-i.s la great and the Pacific
coast EiipMly small. Professor An
thony staled while here that Sara
toga Springs could not begin to sup
ply the demand In tho east.
Sidelights On
Official Doings
City Electrician Strickland wore
the "smile that won't come off" Tues
day evening.
land halls were now conducted he!,om' ls a toast that can nt e
i -
miM aaa tin ronenn fnr mnst nf the i uruilK,
wild charges brought against them.
He asked the mayor why, in the past,
the pool hall licenses had not been
collected as had the theatre licenses, i
and gave as his opinion that the may
or was the chief executive and should
attend to seeing the ordinances en
forced. The mayor replied to this
that the collection was in the hands
The white man's prohibition law
put a crimp in the celebration.
Will Campaign For
Railroad to Eureka
Council Burns the
Midnight Juice
Under the new rules of the council,
that deliberative body gave attention
to the raps of the mayor's mallet at
Locals Win Game
From Roseburg H. S.
Superiiii' La.iket shooting won out
over clever team play for tho Ash
land high .-.cliool basketball team last
cuu last luesuay evening instead of j night, and Hie Roseburg visitors were
at 7 o'clock as has heretofore been defeated by a score of 23 to 14 In one
the custom during the winter months, of the fastest and cleanest games
A fair-sized crowd was present when j ever staged in the local gymnasium
me meeting convenea, ana Delated The Roseimrg boys displayed a daz-
arrivals drifted in during the course j zii,,g team work and time after time
of the evening until the council room i worked the ball down the floor, but
were pursued by absolutely rotten
luck and could not locate the basket.
The formation of permanent coin-
of the recorder, who was an elective mittee for the purpose of securing a
officer, and that it was no more his ! railroad from the Rogue river valley
business than the collection of water 1 to Eureka. Cal.. will be taken at a
rents. meeting of renresentatives of Med-!I)roved
was comfortably filled.
The reading of the minutes was
followed by the jeading and approval
of the recorder's balance sheet for
December; the recorder's yearly re
port for 1915; the water superintend
ent s report! street commissioner;
annual report of the city library, and
repcrt of the caretaker of the city
dump for 1915, were read and ap-
Ashland, on the other hand, played
a fine defensive game and with un
canny skill converted basket after
basket from every angle. Grisez and
Harris each scored four spectacular
baskets from the center of the floor.
The Rore m;g bunch are a clean team
of real sportsmen and lived up to
their adwnce notices, that of being
Mr. Ashcraft dwelt upon the moral 'ford, Eureka, Fort Jones, Yreka, Cop-1 The usual monthly bills were read one ot the cleverest teams in the
effect of the theatres and pool rooms per, Weaverville and other northern and ordered paid. The bill for elec
and declared that It was the children ' California and southern Oregon cities trie current from the California-Ore-
of Ashland which formed the city's to be held at Yreka on February 18. 1 son company and matters relating to
assets, not the pool halls. He said This railroad which will give a vast ' synchronizing the plant were dis-
that all of the theatre men who had 'area in the southern part of Oregon . cussed as elsewhere reported
The electric . light committee re
ported that investigation has proved
been in Ashland recently had not j and northern California an outlet to
paid taxes and had skipped out or .the ocean will open tip rich mineral
gone bankrupt. He then produced and lumber districts, has been a proj- no Immediate need for automatic ap
Bome of the police records and an!ect long recognized as of great value ' paratus indicating water levels in the
affidavit of a minor. Upon demand, to this part of the country and has dams at the electric plant, and the
of the council the recorder read them. been the subject of discussion for . action taken regarding this at the
The police record was a list of the 1 years. The meeting at Yreka will re-; last meeting was rescinded,
The sanitary committee reported
visiting the city garbage grounds;
minors who had been found in the suit ln a definite plan for a campaign
pool halls during the past three yean to secure the road, being started
and of fines and reprimands. The af-1 Owners of timber interests in nor-1 recomniended retaining the same
fklavit was that or a young man wno , tnern California and owners or min-'faretaker at the ?ame gaiarV( a few
had been found playing pool on sev- j ing property in the Blue Ledge dis- J changes in the manner of burning
eral occasions and in which the lad trict and Siskiyou county are interest-1 carcasseSi an(i strict enforcement of
stated that he had bought tobacco ed in the plan. It is hoped also to re-j the ordinance governing disposal of
and cigarettes from every dealer in ceive federal aid as the road as pro- n,i)0ish. The report was approved
town except the grocerymen. The af- J posed would run through the Klam- and tne recor(ier given power to enr
fidavit was made two years ago. ath Indian reservation, and follow the ter nt0 a contract with the caretaker
Councilman Banta remarked that j Klamath river for some distance. All a8 heretofore.
this had no bearing on the present i the California towns tapped by the
question. The records stated that in , railroad are highly enthusiastic, and
order to avoid arrest the proprietors i are active in the futherance of the
had stopped the minors from playing.
Councilman Ashcraft stated that boys
perjured themselves, playing under
assumed names and misstating their
ages. The Eiayor stated that about
eleven boys were taken from the bil
liard halls on the night the ordinance
was first passed.
Mr. Banta compared the pool halls
to the clubs, stating that they were
the poor man's clubs, and advocated
going after the guilty party when the
law was broken, Instead of the busi
ness man. He told of conditions
which existed around a public dance
ln Ashland and showed that the
dance people were not tho ones to
blame. He made a plea for amuse
ments for Ashland, stating that "we
can not build a resort town on lithia
water alone," and that "you could not
build a resort town and drive out all
amusements."
Mr. Lamb stated that his position
was unchanged and that he believed
that the pool room should no more
be licensed than any other business
If legitimate, and if illegitimate
should be put out of buslnes.
Mr. Nlninger resented certain
sweeping assertions made against the
"pool room" class and won the only
burst of applause of the evening with
an appeal to "try to teach this class
to be bet'ter, rather than to drive
them out of the city."
When put to a vote the measure
passed over the mayor's veto. '
The Eugene Chamber of Commerce
has started a move to drain 70,000
acres of wet land ln Lane, Lincoln
and Benton counties. .'
plan.
School Luncheon Is
Bulletin Subject
The application of F. E. Wolters
for a permit to build a private garage
was granted,
Mr. Root and Mr. Ashcraft, who
audited the books of the city treas
urer and city recorder, in a very fa
vorable report compliment those of
ficials for the excellent system and
efficiency which they had found to
exist in their departments.
The Oregon Agricultural College A rpnlliRit,nn frnm th .AI,lrlr
has issued a bulletin which should be : gnt departnieilt f0P mate.rlal was al
in the hands of every mother of a iowed
child who is forced by circumstances The C0Uilc, finay disposed of the
to take a noon luncheon to school. fractlonal lot forn,erly the property
and every school teacher. The bulla- I of Mr Wh,t6i by authorlzlng tne Bale
tin, "The School Luncheon," is pre- 0f the fraction to D. Perozzl for $200,
pared by the domestic science depart- tne dty to pay the pavng flnd 8,de
ment of tne college wun tne co-opera'
tion of mothers and teachers through
out the state. It contains many reci
pes and much general Information
both as to the lunches put up at home
and the lunches served by the school.
The bulletins may be had free upon
request to the Oregon "Agricultural
College.
walk assessments against the strip
and lot No. 47.
The ordinance controlling the or
der of procedure of the councllmen
for the year 1916 was passed.
The pool hall and salary ordinance
were taken care of as elsewhere re
ported. The meeting then adjourned at
11:30 o'clock, after the longest ses
sion indulged in for many months.
Contract Let For
Valley Beet Plant
Word has been received in Grants
Pass from Alex Nibley in Salt Lake
uny mat tne contract nas uen lei tor Tne Becond annua, Jackson coun.
the erection of the beet sugar factory ty Lncoln day banquet wlll be held
near wants i-ass. ine utan men at the Medford Hotel in Medford un-
state. Had they made good even a
small proportion of their shots, the
scoreboard would have had a far dif
ferent tale to tell. On Saturday night
they played again here and the locals
anticipate a nerve-racking contest, as
the visitc -s will be accustomed to the
floor and recovered from the effects
of the long'trip down. To offset this,
Delsman will be back on the floor for
Ashland, he having been absent from
the lineup last night, and the game
promises to be a mix which will long
be remembered. A record-breaking
crowd is anticipated. Tonight and
Friday the Roseburgers play at Med
ford, and a big delegation will go
down from here to see how Coach
Klum's men come out with what is
surely a wonderful team.
Can Ashland win Saturday's con
test, Salem will be the only contender
left besides Medford for the state
championship, .
In an interesting preliminary the
A. ti. S. 6eeiMil team defeated Talent
H to 12. The second team will meet
the Phoenix team, to whom they have
twice dipped their colors, as a prelim
inary to Saturday's contest.
The lineups and points scored In
last night's events were: Fraley, 7;
Grisez, 8; Harris, 8; Plymate, Buck.
Roseburg: Willett, 2; Henderson,
Jewett, 10; Quiue, Black, 2.
It took S00 gallons of oil 16 bum
tho rubbish and carcasses carted from
year 1915.
Some kind personage has donated
a calendar to the city hall, the sanio
being hung In a prominent position
where everybody but the mayor can
see It.
Will Have But One
School Supervisor
Mr. Samuel R: Chase, for two and
ono-ha!lf years rural school super
visor ot supervisory district No. 3,
h;fe jiiBt tendered his resignation to
become county agriculturalist of Was
co county, a position which pays much
better salary than Mr. Chase has been i the city to the city dump din ing the
getting in Jackson county. Tho resig
nation has been accepted and Mr.
Chaso has already departed to take up
his new work.
In accordance with a general de
mand for a retrenchment In county
expenses tho county board had sev
eral months ago determined to d"is
I'Puko with tho services of one super
visor at the end of the present school
year, when the contracts with the
supervisors terminate.
Now that Mr. Chase has tendered
his resignation, the new plan will be
put Into effect at once, and from this
time on there will bo but ono super
visor, .Mr. K. R. Peterson, In tho
county. Tho schools formerly super
vised by Mr. Chase will In the future
be visited by tho county superinten
dent and Mr. Peterson. This will
mean, of course, that the county
schools will not be visited as fre
quently In tho ftituro as In the past.
However, with tiie hearty co-operation
of teachers, school officers, and
school patrons the board hopes to
keep the schools of the county up to
tho standard.
But two books from the city library
were lost by borrowers during tho
past year. The books loaned out
make a total which runs well into
five figures, going over 32,000.
Most of the fireworks were explod
ed at the tag end of the Tuesday ses
sion. The crowd, with the exception
of a few of tho "early to bed brig,
ndo," remained to tho final splutter.
Several city skeletons were dragged
out of the closet Tuesday and given
an airing. Some of the pollen rec
ords were read and, taken all togeth
er, there was some interesting vaudeville.
Ashland Real
Estate'Moves
Governor Will Be
At Medford Banquet
The Southern Pacific Company an
nounces it will build from Coos Bay
south to Eureka. ' -' !!'J-3"'
also send word that in order to flood
the first factory with beets and in
sure the early building of a second,
one-year beet contracts will be of
fered.
The court house at Hood River is
being Improved.
A cheese factory ls talked of for
Donald, Ore. .
der the auspices of the Jackson
county republican committee on Sat
urday, February 12. Governor
Wlthycombe will attend and will
speak. There will be several good
musical numbers and speeches and a
republican olub will be organized.
This is one of the big events of the
year in the Jackson county republican
committee's existence, and a big at
tendance ls assured.
Among the Ashland real estate
deals recently recorded at the county
seat were the following: James II.
Hershey sold lots in the Nickel addi
tion to W. E. Snyder the remunera
tion being $1500, A. C. Nlninger sold
out of town property to WHber
Holmes, Fred E. Jordan transferred
lots in Summit addition to J. W. Mc
Coy, Geneva W. Allen paid $1500 for
land in Boulevard Park addition to
Sheriff Singler who acted for admin
istratrix, Reglna A. Galinde sold a
lot on Nob Hill to John F. Gaines.
J. II. Hollingsworth sold a lot In the
R. R. addition to Mary E. Rolston.
All of these deals were reported
within the past week and give indica
tions of a growing movement in Ash
land real estate.
Eight Months Total
55,335 Pieces
The month of January was a busy
one for the publicity department. The
mail report shows that 83 pieces were
received and 604 pieces Bent out. The
outgoing mail consisted of 477 letters,
68 newspapers, 32 packages of book
lets, 1 photo album and 26 photo
graphs.
During the month 1550 copies of
the glass of water book and 2600
of the new book of analyses were
sent out from the office In various
ways, making a total ot 422 pieces
of advertising, etc., put out.
In addition to this work the man
ager spent a week In Portland and
Spokane working on some "proposi
tions that are of vital importance to
tho city.
The records of the department from
the first of June. 1915, to the first
of February, 1916, a period of eight
months, show that 55,335 pieces of
mail and advertising literature have
been put out. No other city in the
state, outside of Portland, can show
any such amount of work for a sim
ilar period of activity.
The fire chief reported the wood
shed of the city hall to be in a haz
ardous condition at Tuesday's coun
cil meeting, and as a result the chief
of police was ordered to clean It up.
The fire department is doing a good
work in removing- fire risks.
The White land matter, which has
been one of the council's worries for
the past several months, wns partial
ly cleared up Tuesday night with tho
transfer of one of the bothersome
fractions to D. Perozzl for a consid
eration of $200, the city to pay pave
ment and sidewalk assessments now
duo.
Tho Tuesday council meet lasted
from 7:30 until 11:30 owing to
lengthy monthly and yearly reports
and to rather lengthy discussion ot
the pool hall and palary problems.
Along about 9:30 the mayor stated
that he was going over to the city
fount and have a drink of aqua
purn, and the council paused and en-
Joyed a fifteen-minute recess.
A $200,000 steam schooner will be
built by the Hammond Lumber Com
pany at Humboldt Bay, Ore., for the
northwest trade.
Recently 3,000,000 feet of lumber
left Coos Bay in one day on three
ships. ;
Grants Pass will soon have a spray
manufacturing plant.
Boys' Glee Club
At Vining Friday
The Vining Theatre hns for Friday
evening a program of attractions
which should appeal to every resi
dent of Ashland.
Earl Rasor will present his boys'
glee club, composed of thirteen of the
best young male voices In Ashland,
in a program of popular selections.
Mr. Rasor is doing a fine work with
the musically Inclined boys of Ash
land and the glee club deserves the
backing of the peoplo of Ashland.
In conjunction with this the regu
lar Paramount feature will be shown.
This week's feature Is ono of the most
widely advertised Paramount releases
of recent months, Donald Brian' in
"The Voice In the Fog." Mr. Brian
is perhaps the most popular young
masculine star on the American
stage. Ho becamo famous several
years ago when he originated tho
role of Prince Dnnilo In "Tho Merry
Widow," and since then he has
toured the country several times at
the head of his own big musical com
edy productions. The plot of the piny
is woven around the lending of ai
title to a professional sharper, with
complicated results. The plot carries
the actors from England to the Unit
ed States and has thrills enough to
nleaso the most fastidious.
The regular price ot admission, 10
and 15 cents, will be charged for Fri
day's show.
The personnel of the boys' glee
club is as follows: Director, Earl L.
Rasor; first tenors, Frank Rush, Vlr
gll Rush, Merrill Throne; second ten
ors, Farman Swigart, Ora Delbert,
Winn Hays; first bass, 8. A. Peters,
Oscar Silver, Elwood Hedberg, Glen
Simpson; second bass, Reed Harrell,
Ward Hammond, Charles Freeman.
The sanitary committee from the
council report that the work of tho
caretaker at the city dumping
grounds Is greatly complicated by
parties dumping loads of garbage
when the caretaker Is not present.
The city ordinances require that a
permit he secured before rubbngo Is
hauled to the grounds. Councilman
Banta suggested that a couple of
fines judiciously applied would bring,
about the required results.
Councilman Root, one of the new
members of the council, ls an experi
enced bookkeeper. Ho and Council
man Ashcraft were employed to audit
the hooks and accounts of the city
recorder and city treasurer and paid
a high tribute to the efficiency of
these two officials when they turned
In their report. Mr. Root said that
the people do not realize the nmount
of work attached to these offices,
and complimented tho efficiency of
their conduct very highly. He stated
that the two clerks employed In Re
corder Gillette's office were doing ex
traordinarily good work and hand
ling an astonishingly large volume of
business In a thoroughly capablo
manner. The auditing committee
found only two mistakes and these
but minor items, which wero entered
under the wrong department head.
The council extended a rising voto ot
thanks to the recorder, his two
clerks, Miss Biede and Miss Blegel,.
nnd to City Trensuror Eubnnks.
Valley Poultry
Show Next Week
The first annual Rogue River Val
ley Poultry Show will be held next
week at Medford, commencing on
Wednesday, February 9. A number
of Ashland poultry racers will ex
hibit at the show and the poultrymen
of the valley are co-operating In mak
ing the event a notable one. Entrance
slips should be forwarded to the sec
retary of the association at Medford
as soon as possible.
The Booth-Kelly mill baa resumed
operations, at Springfield, Ore.
