V
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1916.
NUMBER 32.
REEH0U1N1
EUTRALITY PACT
EPORTED SIGNED
Several Days in Warring Eu
rope Scarcely Any Fighting
on Any of the Fronts.
REPORTED RUSSIAN VICTORY
ustro-Hunirarians Ucnort Kan-
id Progress in Albania Indi
cations Seem to He That Cen
tral Powers Will Soon Begin
Attack on Saloniki.
Ixmdon, FeY 2
i ..i ,i . ,
-Oicci c and Rmininnla
l liplltiullt ' ( illlip.iet.
Bin' despatch
any lighting mi uuv of
econllnir to :t lb
Thcto Is M-'-nreoh
lie bade front." except urhlloi.v cligogo
iicnts and ii mmr of. these has any note-
.... . 1 . . I , r leil
OI in .1 1 n ie v vn e.-i i ir ....ii
i-,,., i.i.tnl.'iriltiii.tif 1 lime . inn nlaee 11
Im cjimnnncno region of France and near
llr hi the iihio- ninniitiilns, with the
onrh lir nggics-ois. The French Kit lis
Ml nilM SIICO'II llir t'hilli'l i-j-itr..
On -ho U'lPslan front liprlin claims tho
rffii r.r fi uimi.i. rtiissi.'iit forrp bCtWCCH
hp Stnehoil and SU r rivets, while VlPtitia
onotts the forrpil withdrawal o thp Hns-
.nB rr.mi llielr ;i f 1 V it 1 1 PP. 1 tienohOS Ileal'
'scleezkn. Ill 1',iM Clallcl.i, during mining
In hand to hand lighting on Hip C hi
apturo and destruction of Italian caps
til inc. repulse oi lia.l.ill iiuaiurj in-
aeks In Hip Siicntm valley. Home. !m
The concentration of t.irgo numbers of
icrniHlls, miii;i i 1.1 lis mill I in is .iimii
lie .l- I ' iillliri ir ire 11 III ..uiVHr
inran that an attack by the Toiilnux
If IHCH illllfW I.S .Sllllll IO IM' III. Oil' Oil
In Albania thr A nut o-l lutigurlans arp
mimnoeil A desnati h fioiii Athens saK
part of Hip Moiitoiii grill nntiv has
roopi and laden li.i.'k on Dm, 17.0,
Insula s i hlcr soannrt. which is now
he main obJortLo of th Ausl I u- Iliin-
Tlie nrltlsh In F.ast and West Afrira aie
coping rp their hh lis against Hip Her
lans in the rapture nt towns and military
nsitlnns, acceding to otllolal report". In
rt frba ,1 Hellish rnlinnn has fornipil
mi Hon w th thp 1'iench troops at Am-
an
T r rrfiwn prime of Tur!o if reported
1 a t 'ons'nnt I11011I0 despatch by way of
liraitli
: . I'H 1111 I III. lM 'H 11
iOULUlM; OI- WILlMimiTUIN
t " n .... .nir ..r (:.... ttii.tiittlliirp
Department ( 'ninnifimlrr of rr
uioiil dcrmi.
nntlanil, Ken. - I'ol. Joseph II. Houiu-
oldlcr and ineinher of the Crand Army
9 il.n Trt..iil.ll.. .111.1 li... m.iiiv vi.fii'M trpus-
rcr of the lirattlelKiro SaUnss lanli, dloil
o-day at tho homo of his danKhter. Mrs.
,illls SI. ltosn, hcrr. nt-'ed 7:i years.
Colonel ;onldlni,' was born at Toti-daiii,
V.. .lime . 1S42, the son of JaniPfs '-Mar-
hall and Amanda S.mfoid lioiddliiK. I he
oloiu'l'h inrly ediiriitlMn was ohlalned at
t l.iiMienip and Williston Acinlemli"
ml while' Iip was n cadpt at Norwii'li 1 ni
pisity hp ns appointed nv I'.eMilcnt
.unolti as a ..eroiid llcu'eoaiii In the ''111
PSiniflil of eiiloti'il tlniis find ervrd with
hPtii in tlipfeninsiila i'aiiii.ilKiidtitlim ImK
lid IWI Later he heeatiie jittiirhed to the
mppltal rlivl'loti of the loth, ISIh and 'iith
orT's as amiiuianri! oiih-it. m- ti-r ..t
"air Odks. VotersbnrKh and many otlipr
nRacemptits ami was with Hliprman In
ih march on Italpich. His valiant -work
re. iMVprl nian n mlilier tlip aj:onV of
path on Hie Held. Colonel OouldlnK war.
iLriti iiitvl 111111 fii'i 11 L iriuiu iii-iiik in.i.-
prpd out In
Iln jolneil Huberts T'ist, c,, A. It., of
OIK rili aw Minn us me w:ir w.im omt
nd was department coinmander for Vpt-
lal national eneamtitnent.s ns delecatu
nd in ISM was adlutant-Keneral of thfl
mintry-wlde otKanlzation. Mr C.otililini;
kiis lo iirn nil mi" fu.iii 111 iio .loiio ..
larstnw in i.s3-i-.. aim was iiei'tvtaiy
.1..11 ..iili....t. ..rr.l.L. r....
11 I'lvii ill 1 1111111.11 nii'iu. 1111 1 1 ti i-i 1 iji
K. I'uller, lS'C-lSU Norwleh Tut.
i rs.ty eonfi'ired the M. A decree upon
dm In IK'S,
t"olonel OnuldlnR as a meinher of the
ower lodges of Preo Masons at WllmlnR'
on. of Itpausant Commandery, KnlKhta
emnlar. of urattiepoio ntifl 01 .Mount
- . tl(..n.n (JI.I.iai. ..f 1 ...l..,.lnM
I'rom 1MS to 1W! lie was loeated In
lit anil, lie hit lor a tune nssoeiatei w th
he frelcht dpp.irtment of tho Hntland
anroau huh a 1 u'i Minm tn-ini,. im piitin
eeretary to the president. lie became
reasiner of tho W'lltnitiKton HavliiKS
in Ml! In ISffi.
In 1!s63 .Mr. C.otildlns married Miss
'lances Pease of Norwich. ,Slio died In
!& Jli leaves two bons, .lames M, of
. T nklnn Pnl '.n.l TM.III.. O . .
'rbnna. 111., and two daiiKhtors, .Mm.
I I I I I n At TI...II Clt TTlllllllIll (Itlll Ktl..
WAT I. H H t' n Y U A,N KItl'I'TC'V.
Hutland, Keh, I. Walter Krlnonlty of
lieu a Tietllion ill imiOMiipn-y in 1110
ifflco of Cleik K. H. I'latt of the United
hero lielliK W crcilltors. I ll assets
inoiinr 10 . .iui..i . 01 w i' imi is
lalined exempt Thu credltots Include
ho HurlliiKton City laundry, whoso
w persons
PRISONERS ON APPAM
ARE GIVEN LIBERTY
About 200 More, Consisting of Officers and Crew
and People Who Are Thought to Be in Mili
tary Employ of Great Britain Are Kept
Aboard One American Was Among Ship's
Passengers Interesting Stories of the Ex
ploits of the Moewe Are Told.
Old Point Comfort, V.i., I'ph. Two
h. Mulled and t.-i persons held pilsoners bv
a lieiman prize new on the fotmei pa.
-etiKPr liner Appam pio Info-mod to
nlsht that they woio at llhcrtv to land 011
American soil. Moir than -jin, others, In
elinlltK; the (ici-man captor.-., the inptain
and dew of the liner ami certain pnsi'ti
Kcls alli'i;cii to belont; to Hie nrmcd foii'es
of (ireat Itrlliiln will be heht on lioard
until the Culted States kii ernmenl dell
nltely ileterntlnes their status 11111I that
of the ship Itself.
This arraucement was reached on or
ders from 'Wnslilnnton niter a confeiencp
' between repre-entatlve'4 of the flprman
lainl Ittltlsh Kovei ninents nn the Old I'olnt
wharr with the Norfolk collector of I'tH
tiuns. Nmui.in II. Hamilton, ac:lna as In
termedlary. A.MICItlCAN CITIZK.V A BOA II O
Thp captured liner, at anchor In
Hampton Ito.nls off I'm tress .Monroe
since she j hi t Into the Virginia capes
Tuesday mortilntr. will move up to
Newport News early to-morrow to ills
embark her ..isseiiKer. With the nth
ers will land c,. n. -'n-rltn Toi ri, n nut
urallzed American of Nevada, the on)'
citizen or the United States abo.iru
Tatillaferrl, who althnu-ih carrylnt,- his
cltizenshlti papprs luid not made his
Identity known, was di-covercd to-day
by the immigration officers
I.leuteiiiint Hern, the Oerniiin reserv
ist coiiinnindiiiir the prize ctew, still
maintains In full authority on board
the liner but ho is aptinu under ordet
Is ft 0111 the I 'tilted States covernment
through Collector Hamilton. Ho has
HKi-eed to move the ship to Newport
News and hold her there pcndlns: fur
ther developments.
I'KOTKi 'Til N KOI! PAHHI.NC.l'.US.
"Vim have niuslit asylum in a port
of the I'nlted States," said Mr. Hamil
ton, addtcsslnc: Lieutenant liers.
"Wliile you are in these waters oil
will be afforded protection and all the
others will be piven similar protiition."
The passenceis e.piessed their ap
proval bv applause.
"Ver oil." returiiPd Lieutenant rter.
.Mi. Hamilton oMllalneil that Ids In
st nictlons hail been to release o er -body
aboard exrppt nienibpis of Hie prize
crew, but sliue Lieutenant lier-r had
raised Hip point, that Hie members of
the Appain's etew should lip detalncil
becausp they had tesistcd cajiturp and
also thp vz allpsed military members,
thev Hoilld be kept ahiMtd until the
state depaitincnt had passpd 011 this
qupstioii.
ALLOWIin TO DIU'AKT.
After thn coufpiencp on the wharf tho
Itiitlsli rppresenlath'es told Collector
llaniiltnii that those aboard who weie
free to dep. in had sonic uncertaluly
about their richt to so. lie prevailed
on Mr Hamilton to ipiurn to the ship
ind make the same Mateincnt he had
made at the confereni e.
Tho paHsoni;ers weru assembleil in Hip
llnitur salon and Sir I'dward Merewpth
r inlrodiiceil Colleeioi' Hamilton. The
latter then opnhied that all those
lilmaid were free to have exi ept the
Cicrinan prize crew, tlio crew of the
Appam and 12 passengers who the Ciei-
matiK contend have Itrltlsh military con
tiectloiiR. A passencer who npoko as Hip rrpro-
sentative of those 1- men a.sked Collec
tor Hamilton whether they would have
the protection of Hip. United StatPS kov
eminent while the ship was within
American teirltorl.il wateis. Lieutenant
Hoik objected to thn passeiiKei' unhid
tho term "American protection," rcmlnd
luK him that he va aboard a ship fly
int; tlio Oerinnn llac which was rimha
lont to holnii on (Jermau soil. The col
lector Interceded for Hip passpiiRpr.
ImntPdiatPly after to-nlRht's ronfer-
rnm a seleoted Kioup or j'-nciisnmen,
includliic Sir Kdward Merowpthcr, KrPd
crick, Fcton, ..nines J'tHncis'. Charles
I'uller, Or, !". F Hicc, the Appam's pin-
.sor and tlio maMors 01 1110 six nriuso
vessels captured by thp raider which
took the Appani. were hrnuRht ashoie
to aid In porfectlnK arrangements foi
the landlntr of the others. Mr. Jntnes
remained at nn Old I'olnt hotel, but
tho rost of thn party returned to spend
one more nlnht aboard tho Appam.
r.ssi:Nonns avhm. tkkatkp.
I
Itoport.s asreo that all the passengers
were accordod the nest treaimeni. possi-,
bio by the prize crow under the elrcuni-.
statues. Food and water ran short dur-i
Inn the last few days or the lone vn'-1
age from the African coast, but the pns
sengors say they had the
tholr enptots and had no
make.
Fame fare fi 1
complaint to
MOI1W1-: I'NIOI'.NTU'IIU). I
Versions of tho Identity of the Ccrmnn !
raider wblei, rutitiiro.i ih Anmm nun
tlio oUirr nraft still differ. Prlnco llatz-!
feldt of the Herman einbasKv nt Wash.
Iligton asserts that she Is the iiermiin'
cruiser Moewe, built In 1913 or 1911 for)
the Imperial navy and commanded t.y
Captain Count Dohna. All the canture.fi
Hritlsh sklppets agree, however, that
tho raider Is a converted merchantman
of about 6,liUii tons, named Honga, prob
ably captured a fow months ago, mount
ing six masked suns of near alx-lnch
callbro and luvvliiK two torpedo tubes.
Tho Kngllshmen bellovo she was lilted
out recently ns
and slipped out
a commerce uesttoyer
to tho high sous from
the Hervan naval base at tho Kiel canal !
shortly before, uho began her naraer off j
tho coast of Africa by capturing the
steamer Forrlngford on January II, I
"They may call hor what they please,"
said Mr. James to-nlghl, "hut I have
dined ahoatd the old naval Moewe, nud J
she was only n W)-ton ship. May bo 1
they aro calling tho raider tho Movwc!
now." . ,
held
Captain O.ivld IJartoii of the steamship
Coibrldce, the second prize taken by the
raider, was a pilsoiiet aboard her be
fore he was tiaiisfi-ri-'d with his crew
to the Appam. He ,-,im t lie talder Is ,1
brand new ship built for the fruit trade,
wllh hi r decks .sttetmtheneil to ratty a
buttery that would do ciedlt to a llrst
class naval comiueice destroyer.
"Some of her plates In-Hdc had not ccn
been painted when I saw her." Captain
Hat ton said. "She Is .1 trim, fast boat
with a shiKle funnel and has her hold
lilted for carrying lrnlt. Her trims, six
of them. piMbablv are five and srven
lenths Inches bore. Four of them are
mounted forwatd, masked by a collapiliiie
steel forei astlc. which tails away when
the ship uets within lani-'e of her prey
Two oiheis arc aft, one of them on the
I P. and both so placed thai they arc
not readily obsoncd.
"Althoiich I was confined below' deck
dnrlmr most of my stay on board 1 was
clven conslderablo liberty and mauaced to
make a rather complete inspection. On u
ulate below the nanu; rntnja' was en
.raved and seveial of us saw the panic
lame on papers in the commander's cabin.
HAS I.AUGK CHEW.
"1 was on tho boat bealnnliiK the nlKlit
of .lantiaty 11. my ship hiivlim been cap
luted a few hours after the raldei becan
her woik by tnklnc the rarrinford. The
ship was manned by a ciew of several
hundred men, many nf whom had S. M.
S. Moewe' on their hats. Otheis had "If.
M. S. Pan' and In fact therp werp half a
do'.en ilirfptpnt nanips Wlipppvpr tho
Herinan was after a prize, all of un werfl
kppt IipIow undpr cuard. and wp saw vlr
tii'illy nothliur of what hatipptied.
"We were followed by the raider for
an hour or two diiririK- the afternoon,
but I paid little attention to her, as she
appeared to be steamlne: abmy; easily
and when within a few miles of us 1
made out the Hritlsh llttp: at her stern,
.lust at dusk she tired a warning: short,
unmasked her battery and I hove to."
THK Al'I'AM'S CAI'Tl'KK.
Kxoopt for minor detnllp, the stories
of the capture of the Appam atrrecd
that the liner was four days nut from
Oakur, French Went Africa, for Liver
pool with passengers and S.nno tons of
Ci'iiervil rnn;n, when she slRhted the
(.iernian .lanuar IS. The raider was
moliiK at a fair rate of speed but
seeniintily mnkiiip: 110 attempt to make
fnr the Appam. Almost imperceptibly
slic bewail to K.iin siieed and bpfore
Captain Harrison w.is aware that dan
Kcr iiupcuilcd, the Cermun had chanseii
Ills course and sent a warning shot
across the liner's bow.
Captain Harrison Inm.edlatelv hove to.
The raider's forecastle bad fallen away,
PMiosiliR her battery of Iiiiko aims tt allied
upon the Appani. A small boat put out
with .1 board party and in a short time
a prize crow was in possession of the
si. In.
There were DJ men in tho prize crew
under Lieutenant HerK and some L Her
mans on board the liner hound for pilson
en.ups in HnKland weie pressed Into
servh e.
WOVKNTH CAl'TUHK IN I'Ofll DAYS.
The Appam was the seventh HnKllsh
vessel taken In a peri id of four days,
all the operations oecuirlm; less than
two hundred miles off the coast of Spain.
On .limitary 11, the steamers Corbrldtre
and I'arrliiKford wire overhauled about
ISO miles northwest of Cape I'lnlsterte;
on .launarv n Hie Oionionby, Author.
Ti.ubr and Ariadne wio taken in the
Atlantic still further at sea and 1101 Ih-
waid.
THK MACTAV1SII SHOWKU FIUI1T.
It was about sunset on Sntuiday when
the Appam was captilied. Throtiuh the
iiIkIii and Into tho next day tlio raider
followed her closely and 011 tho evenltiK of
January hi she drew away to attack the
flrltish steamer Clan MacTnvlsh. Ac
counts differ as to the distance from the
Appam that the attack upon the line
Tavlsli took place. It Is variously o-tl-mnted
at from five to ten miles, but flashes
of lire were visible from the liner. Only
the prize crew, however, had a fair view
of Hie capture, for tho passengers' and
other prisoners weie kept below decks
and glimpses through porthole." hail to
satisfy them.
It appears that the MacTnvlsh, mount
( lt,p sx. pounder on her bow. at
,,.,, ,t0( ,Psltaiice and wan subjected to
n ,.lvy nr,. fn,m tho raider's big guns,
,..if,f. nf i10 lnon Were killed and many
wounded before the meichantman went
,irnvn, Tiipie weie two Inteilor explo-
j,,itiH as she sank. The fate of the master
(lf ,)f, .MacTavish Is unknown, but lie Is
believed to bo witli many of Ills crew on
hoard the raider. TIip Appani steered
''lose but was ordeied back. Later four
of the MacTavish crew, three of them so-
verely wounded, were
Uner In a small boat.
sent aboard the
Then the pil7e clew headed the Appani
westward and proceeded In company with
the raider until the next morning. .Just
when the i.ilder disappeared and what
direction she. took Is unknown to Hie
ICngllshtnen, nud tliero has been no wind
of her since that day, .January 17.
FlI'TKHN-DA Y VOYAOU,
The Appani, accordlni; to the nngllsh
liicn, appeared to bo stoerlnK u straight
westwnril course until sometime Monday
night, when she began to zlg-zat? near
the thrpe.mlln limit i.ff the I'lrclnln
capes. She took fifteen days for tho
Journey, steaming only about' nine knots
an hour most of the time, She carried
no Mag, following the habit of many
Hritlsh merchantman, bul Is said to have
displayed lliltlsli colors as she entered
the Vliglnla capes,
Dining tlio long cruise, many of thn
(.Cooliuucil ou puitc fourja
mwmmm
UIMIL UUI IIIIIIIIUIII I
AS GERMAN PRIZE
Neutrality Hoard Decides That
Way but Afterwards Recalls
Its Announcement Itecausc
Department Has Not Acted.
A CONFLICT OF OPINION
S. Officials Believe Liner Is
Prize under Prussian-American
Treaty of 1S28 England
Contends Ship Should He Sur
rendered. Washington, Feb. Indications that
tlio Itrltlsh passenger liner Appam,
brought Into Hampton Ho.uls by a Her
man prize crew, will lie held by the
United States lo lie a Herman prize of
war and not an auxiliary ciulser, weie
given to-night In high official quarters.
The neuitallty board, which ailvlscil
the state department on such questions,
announced to-day that tho ship was a
prize, but the announcement was le
railed later, ptosuniably because the
stale depaitmi'iit Itself has not acted.
The real point to lie decided Is whether
Hie Appani shall remain In possession
of the prize crew under the terms of
tho Prussia n-Ainerlcan treaty or shall
In- returned to her Hritlsh owners under
The Hague convention. Indications weie
given that tho state department will hold
that the luize belongs to Oermany.
Count von Hernstorff, the Herman am
bassador, in a formal note to Secretary
Lansing gave notice that the Appani
c.'iine into Hampton Hoads under the
treaty which guaiaiitres her lo her cap
tors. Sir Cecil Spring-Hire, the Hritlsh
ambassador, a.sked that the, ship lie to.
turned to her Hritlsh owners as a prize
record under article :i of The Hague,
convention.
Statp depirlmenl officials Indicated to.
day that if Hip App.im finally Is held
to be n prize, the I'rnsslan-Amprlcan
treaty of 12S is more likely n -nn ern the
case than Is The I lactic convention.
This would mean that the Appam would
be turned ner to her Herman captors
and In that case somo Herman officials
expressed the view that the prlzp crew
rather .than let her fall back Into the
hands of the Hritlsh. as would seem In
evitable If she left port, might tnke the
ship to the three-mile limit and sink Iter.
Tlio original treaty expired by limita
tion In 110. When it was lenewed .1
provision which icmnved Hritlsh vessels
from scope of the article was eliminated
and Hie ticaty of I'l'S. which now is In
force, gives Herman prizes tho right to
come and go.
The Hague convention under article 21
provides for the Internment of the crew
and the surrender nf thp ship, hut Hate
department officials are doubtful that it
can be applied to the case of the Appam,
til si, because the Prussian-American
treaty is believed to be binding, and,
second, because Hreat Hiltaln signed
but never ratified tills particular Hague
coin option.
Until the status of the ship Is derided
she will remain in tlio custody of Nor
folk customs authorities, and If turnert
npr to fiermnny may be kept In port or
sent to sea as the Herman government
choses.
Tire state department to-day requested
the PiiMorns authorities to land rill pas
sengers and non-roinhataiilr. Their c.i,e
now goes to Hip Immigration authorities.
Foreign connils will care for their own
nationals who aro Indigent. Those who
can afford to do so aro free to go on
to Lilinpe.
A London despatch savs:
"It Is understood here that tile Appam
carried J2.SoO,(K) In bullion, which prob
ably will bo claimed as 1 prize, as bti'llon
Is contraband "
The British Claim.
London, Feb. 2 The Hrltl-li
ment will hold that Hie Appam
releasul under clauses l and 2
govern
must bo
of The
llaguo convention of 1907 it
to-day. These provide that
rtas stated
merchant-
man cannot lie converted into an
auxiliary cruiser on the high seas and
that a merchantman pHzo can only be
taken Into a neutral port under certain
circumstances of distress, Injury or lack
of fool and If she does rot depart within
a stipulated time cannot be interned but
must be turned over to the 01 Initial
owners with all her carco.
According to the Hritlsh contention,
under these clauses the prize tew must
be Intel tied.
Since the news nf the Appam's ar
rival there has been some anxiety as
to whether the raider Moewe might
have attacked any other passencer
boats. It has been ascertained, how
ever, that all the South African liners
are accounted for. Two big liners
Walmer Castle and Kenllwnrtli C.istle,
are Kifp but neither of them hnd seen
anything of the Herman raider.
"Just what we would have i;,, t0
do had we been In tho Herman posi
tion." was the remark of a Hritlsh na
val officer, discussing I.leut Herge's
exploit.
Heller at tho safety of the m.r,
coupled with undisguised lulnilrutlon
for Hie exploit of her captors, marks the
British attitude toward the Appam In
cident. Hut the international aspect
of tlio case developed much criticism
of the German move as bplng dPllbpf.
ately with the purpose of further In.
volvlng the I'nlted States In a con
troversy with tin' Hritlsh government
The steamer Clan M.'icTavlsli, which
Is reported sunk by Hie Moewe, was nun
of tho most valuable of thn Clan lint-.
Klin carried a very rich cargo consist.
Innr mostly of wool and beef from aum.
tralhi and New Zealand. Utr t'l I! IV
numbered clfa-hty.
MAY HOLD APPAM
happenings in vt.; .
, -r t-ittt T T
JSti-WSS tSl
ADDISON COUNTY
MIDDLEBURY.
News was received Thursday of the
death at her homo In Uoldsboro, N. C,,
of Mis. Kate limit, a former well known
resident of Mlddlobury, who hud been III
for somo time. Mrs. Ilurtl was the daugh
ter of the late .larob lluwov of Middle
bury, who was, naif u iciitury ago,
sheriff of Addison counlv and kefper uf
the county Jail In Mlddlpbury. Her llrst
husband was Or. C H. Currier of VUddlo
bury, later of San 'mnclsco. Hho leaves
no children from either marriage Mrs.
Hunt since leaving Ibis town had flvod
In the South for about 20 ycais. The
funeral services and hut In! have been
held In Ooldsborn.
Hortoti W. Jones died at his homo on
South street Thursday .about midnight
of a complication of dlseasps, at tho
ago of S:; years. I to was bom In
ShofPhuiii May 1.1, IS.'in, and was the
son of Asa and Susan (llcnietiwny)
Jones, lie Ihed III that town until
about two ycais ago, when he moved
to Mlddlebtiry. He held various ITO'ii
offices and represented the town of
Shoreham In the Legislature In 172
Mr. Jones at one time was a noted
sheep breeder and made many trips to
the West. lip Is survived by a wife and
two daughters, Mrs. H. G. Farnhnm of
Sudbury and Mrs. William H Stokes
of this village, with whom he lived
and a sister, Mrs. Susan Wright, alsi
of this village. The funeial w.i
held at his late home on South street
at II o'clock Sunilav. The J!ev. Chariot
Wattle of itlclimond conducted t
scrvhes. The body was taken I
Troy on the noon train and the lint Ii
will he made later In the cemetrrs 1
Shorehiitn. Hajilpl lUiMiiond died a
his home on I'.irk 'treet at six o'cloe
Friday morning1 after a Ions Mines
with paralysis. For many years In
had been tut'illv helpless. Mr. I'.iiv
mond was born In Hast Hnchesti '
February 9. 127. and was consequent
ly nearly S9 years of age He server"
In Company I of the 1th Vermont vol
unteers Infantry In the Civil War and
later was hi Company H, 2nd recipient
of thp Vermont reserve corps, and wa
dually discharged at Indianapolis Jul
ISfiS. Mr. Hnymond leaves a wife
I!y a former wife lie had eight chll-
dton. all of whom have died. The
Hland Army Post of Middlebiirv hnc
taken a great Interest In Mr. Itaytnond.
but he was not a regular member "f
the post, being unable to attend to the
mpetlng". The remains were taken
Friday morniiiK to the undprtaklnc
rooms of A. .1. Hhiekmer and the fun
eral was held there Mondas, with Or
D. II. Coikroti officiating. Interment
was In the West cemetery
Th" nffleeis or the Addl ion fount
Agrlcuitutal soiletv have icelved word
from the animal husbandry division of
the rnlted States department ot agri
culture that their petition for a wlntet j
stock show at the government farm lhll
year has been appinvcd. The date agiccd
upon Is Frhla, Maioli All the e-
en-lso't this 'ear will be held at the arm
Instead of pn't'v at th" town hall as in
forniei jciis. In appiovlnp the project
the deparrnic nt of lirlculturc lias
deslKliatfil 'is the expert.! to attend this
show and as.-lst In tho bulging O -orse .
M. Hummed. 1 hlef of thp animal hus
bandry division, who will jlidgo the
hoisex. I". P.. Mirshnl'. pspcrt In sheep;
O. Arthur Hell, who will Judge the cattle;
and lliury M. Lamon, a poultry expert.
All these gentlemen are will and favor
ably known in Addison county and a
successful contest Is assured.
Miss Canie K. Oewey, who bad been
111 for several weeks, ilel at her home
on Seymour street at 1-' o'clock Sunday
night, the cause of death being heart
disease. She was 11 years of age. She
had made her home for quite a long
time with her sister. Mrs. lMlth Kobin
l.iin, at whose home she died. Miss
Dewey was the daughter of the lato
.loslali V,. Dewey of Mlddlobury. Tho
funeral was held at two o'clock
Wednesday afternoon nt St. Stephen's
Kplsropal Church and burial was in
the Foote Shed cemeteiy. The M.iyfalr
war relief held a well attended meeting
with Mis. John A. Fletcher Monday
afternoon. - At nbmji eight o'clock Sun
day ovenlng Deputy Sheriff Noble J,
Sanl'ord, Chief of Police (ieorgo II. Chaf
fee and Speilal officers H.-orge Moore
and Amos Wilson o.cuteil a search
'.variant In the l'gau House. After a
thorough search In all parts of the house
and the barns they were unable to tlnd
any Intoxicating liquor. Mrs. John II.
Sargent, who has been 111 at the Mlddlo
bury lull for a wppk, is much better.
Miss Pearl Lauber of Fair Haven came
to town Monday to make a visit with
her parents at Hast Mlddlebury. Miss
Anna H. llalpin. who has been here for
a week, has returned to nutland. W AV.
Fuller of London, Hnglund, Is visiting
friends In town.-- Miss IMna I'i Valley
and Loon LaValley of Hutland are in
town to visit lelatlvcs. -Mr. and Mrs.
Abraham W. Foote "have returned from
Walllngford. where they were' visiting
at the home of their son. Charles N.
Foote. Mr. and Mrs. Charles N. Fonto
have come here to sppiul a few days
nt his father's home. Miss Gladys Frost,
who has been spending two weeks with
her parents In Hutland, have returned
to town. William Turner was taken
suddenly ill Sunday while at chinch and
was lemovfil to his home on College
street. Patrick Hatpin of College
street Is ill. -J. P. lloyt has returned
fiom Whltins, where he has spent a
few days. Mr. and Mrs, Solatium Allies
have returned from Whiting, whem
they went to attend the funeral of Iouls
Allies. Dr. A. D Hurler Is able to bo
out after a short Illness. Monday,
market day. butter brought 2j to SO
cents and eggs 2.1c
A. Collier of Hlpton, who was arrested
by Deputy Sheriff N. J. S.itifor.1 Monday,
was municipal lourt Tuchdu, charged
with cruelty to animals, lie pleaded gull,
ty and waw fined $2.1 and costs amounting
to JSt.M, which he paid. Statii's Attorney
Sturtevant prosecuted and Ira II. Latleur
represented tlio respondent. John Dona
hue of Vergenues was brought befoij
Judge James H. Doiiuway In municipal
court Tuesday foi failure to exhibit a
hunter' license Ho was found in Hit
woods near Lake Dimmoro bv Hunio
Win den Chaffpe and wtntcd that he had
left his llcpnse at home. I lo was given
titno to send his license in by mull, but
latled lo do mi. It has been tho custom
jut tho local wanler.H Whoii a iicrsoii was
T -r v - m -w
UVUJNTIUS
found without a license, and w.is known
lo the warden, to give him tltno to send It
In. Ho was lined jr. nnd costs amounting
tr JlO.fiS, which ho pald.-Clllbert Dumus
loft yesterday for New York, where ho
wll visit his nephew, Aleck lide, and
will remain for some time. Tho
Hnv. John Evans Hold has ie
turned from Khoreham, when; he pcrfoim
ed 11 wedding ceremony nt the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Inn ird of that
vlllagp. their daughter. Miss Annie Leon
ard, being united In marriage to Soton La
pham, Miss Dora f.eouuid, a tdFtor of the
bride. wn bridesmaid and Hector loon
ard, a hrother of the brldo. was best man.
Mr. and Mrs I.nphnin left for a two
weeks' liomiyinnon, after which tlioy will
make thplr home In Shorcliam, After the
ceremony a wedding dinner w.i served.
Tho Ladles' Aid nnd Auxiliary of St. Ste
phen's Kpiseopal Church met Titeil.iv
with Mrs. J n. Unit!. Tho U.-wnv 1 lun
met yesterday with Mrs. I'. ''.
Mellon. Oscar Schoroder found a dead
deer tangled In a barb wlro feme In Lei
cester. I'lsh and O.ime Warden Hpoigi
Chaffee of this village was untitled and he
'cin ived it. - Humphrey Sullivan and
Mrs. Mary Hovlnn went Tue-diiy to Hur
1 melon, wheie they were called by Hip
MM-ions illness of Miss Uuth Wright. Mrs. 1
D. II. Corkran rntettalnpil Hip Woman's j
Foreign and Home Missionary soolpties
"f the Methodist chinch nt her homo on '
-'emlnarv street Tuesday afternoon. .
ieorgo Champagne is conliiied by lllnes. I
Word has been received from Mlsvs
'tlaneho Hurt lug-ton. who Is a pntlent nt
he Fnnny Allen ho-'pltal, that she Is slow
' recnvei Ing.-The nniiual Innspectlon of
It. Calvnry Commandery, K. T., will be
Id tills evriilng, beginning with
hi millet at six o'clock. Tho older nf
ie temple will be conferred in full form
inndiately following supper. Hruiid n-
color George Hoot will inspect the work
f the ennnnanderv 1: . expected that
Mwaid L. Hates, grand commander, will
e prpspiit. John A. Fletchpr. (leisure
f .MIdd!ouury College, has returned fiom
New York, where lie attended the annual
Ilriner of the alumni of Mlihllehniv Col
lege of New York a.nd vicinity. John
Reynolds ha gone to Hutland to spend a
few days.
The funeral of Miss Carrie K. Dewey
was held at St. Stephen's Church 'Wed
nesday afternoon nt two o'clo.-k. There
mis a large attendance and a pinfusslon
f tlowers. The Hcv. John IN .ins Hold
'ilficlatcd. Hurlal was In the family lot
m th" Central cemetery The beiinis
weie Harry Ilavden, George Mead. John
Hammond, Willis N. Cady, lMw.ird c.
Hrown and West lev Murdoch. Mrs.
Jeiome Nol.iud, who bad been 111 for
tome time at her hnpie on Wevhrldge
Mropt with a complication of dise'ies,
died about six o'clock Wpilnesdn nun 11
Ing at the age nf R7 e.irs. She Is nur
ivcd by a husband and two sisters. Mrs.
Margaret Tyler, who Is a patient at tin
Mary Fletcher hospital, ami Mi's. Anna
Win of Muskln, Iowa. The a.inual In
spection of Mt. Calvary Conmiandei y,
K. T., will lie held in Masonic Temple
tills ovenlng. The exercises will bccln
at six o'eoi-li with a banquet. The order
of Hip temple will be conterrrd In full
form immediately following the supper.
Grand Inspector Hporge Hoot will be
tuesi'iit and Inspect the work nf the i 0111
tnaiidcry. It Is p,-i ted that Hdwunl 1,.
Hates, grand commander, will be present.
- Mrs. I). II. Corkran entertained the
members of the Century rlub at her homo
on Semlnaty street Yclnesdav evening.
Mrs. It. L. Hrough, who has conducted
a millinery business here for a tow
years, has sold her business to G. .
and II. W. Stone, who hive taken posses
sion. The Hcv. Hoy i:. Wlilttitnore Is con.
tilled bv Illness. Joseph W. Calhoun Is
confined by Ulricas. Mis. Julius T. Wil
liamson of Washington street Is III. The
newly elected officers of An ow anna
Itebcknli Lodge. No. IS, I. O. (1. I, weie
Installed Tiiesda evening. Mrs. Spear,
district deputy, assisted by Miss Dandrew
of Hnrllngton, were installing officers.
A banquet was served. Mrs. Herbert
Peacock, one of the sisters, was presented
witlr a gift from tlio Hehekahn with ap
propriate remarks. The Kssay club held
a well attended mooting with M-s. P. H.
Melleu at her home Wednesday after
noon. VERGENNES.
John II. Donnelly, the ncwlv appointed
postmaster took con me of Hie pnst
olllco here Mondav. Mr. Donnelly will
have for assistant his brother, Daniel T.
Donnelly of Moutpelirr, who was one of
several candidates with a strong backing
for postmaster at '.Montpcller, wheio he
lias loslihil I'm 17 oars. Henry
Myers died Thursday night aftei
an Illness of four months at the homo of
his brother, Heorgo Myers, Sr.. aged tW
years. 1 In wius born and always Ihed lit
the houso where ho died, lie Is Mtrvlved
by a brother, Heorgo Myers of Vergeunes,
two sisters, Mrs. Oliver Danynu, Sr.. of
Ferrlsburg and Mrs. Alphonso Potvln of
Wlnooskl. The funeial wa& held Sat
urday morning at St Peter's Church
John A. Preston, son of Mr. and Mrs.
William Preston, died Saturday morning
from pleuro-pneunioula, aged IS j.rnrs.
Hesld s Ids parents, ho Is survived by oris
brother. Sedgwick Preston, and one sis
ter, Miss Freida Preston. The funeral
was held Tuesday morning at eleven
o'clock. Miss Lena Hawkins is visiting
Mrs. Kcich of Hurllugton. Lucius M.
Avety, who has been IU for several
w ci ks, Is ahlo to be out The condition
of William Potter Is n-'t Improved Dr.
William ltoss of Jacksonville, Fin., was
called heio Saturday bv Hie Illness of
his father. Frank A. Hoss. The funeral
of Henry Myers was held Saturday morn
ing at St. Peter's Chun h. the Hcv. I,. A.
Vezlna ofllciating. Th. bearel'H woto
George Mycin, Ji., Harry and Bail
Myeis and Oliver Danyow. Hurlal was In
Kt Peter's cemetery. Arnnng those piosent
fiom awav wcio Mis. Alplionse Potvln
of Wlnooskl and Mis. Matthew Mimogue
of Itiitliinil. Itobei t Kingman, a former
employe of the Stevens House, has taken
tho position of coachman at 'Woodbrldge,
Hall, Arthur Kvaitb has gone to Palm
Heach, Fla., to spend tho lemalnder of
tho winter. K. It. Wilcox Is critically
111 with pneumonia. H. F. O. Klmbali,
who has been 111 for a week, Is able to
be about the house. -Miss Kllzabelh
llendco Is 111 -Henry Pie.ston has so far
loioMMid from his tccont Illness as to
be able to tide out Miss .Mildred Hood
win of Haudolph Is teaching school In
the Lanow dish let, Wulthani. Wiildo
Powers Is 111 with grip -It, A. Alius of
West Addison has rented tho Henry
(Cuiitluuctl ou iUc two)
;uuu PEOPLE AT
IU
CHEER PRESIDENT
'Those Gallant Men Who Sit on
the Hill at Washington and
Make the Laws Arc Goinp; to
Deliver the Goods," He Says.
AUDIENCE SINGS "AMERICA'
The Future, Air. Wilson Declares,
Depends on Commanders of
Ships and of Submarines and
Upon Blockades and I'pon
Many Other Men.
Kansas city, Mo.. Fob. 2. -Pro'ldont
Wilson dpmandpd to. night that steps ty
begun during tho present month to bac
him up In defending American lhc am
commerce abroad. Ills demand mel with
shouts and applause from an audience, of
Kiwi persons, who waved Amrrican flag'
leaped to their seats and cheered
When the President censed spcaklnr
Iip leaned for wan! and akcil the great
throng to Join him In singing "niorlca "
The bind placd softie, the nudleuco stoi d
and the words or Amorlca's national an.
them c'ime in a glorious burst or song
The big crowd was for the Preside i
from the start. It waited patiently a
hour to sec him and cheered Itself boat e
In a tlnee-mlnutp demonstration when Iip
appeared. Sixteen thousand in ard hi 1
2ii.no were turned awav and Vi.non tme
tried to glimpse him a he left his ho e
for Hie h.ill
"Why, some men In Washington p
questioning if w could get the n
men for which tlio government Is a li
Ing." he said at one point of his i d
dress.
"Would they volunteer?"
A man In the far end of th Lab
shouted his answer over tho heads of
the crowd:
"Ye," he said.
A dor.en men a score &n pphoed Oie
word, and thp hall was In a tumid'
President Wilson smiled and held n-it ti -hand.
"Why, I believe," he said ns the
tumult died, "you could r.ilc the SO'ion
men In almost any State. I bellevo vnu
could get n.nna men right here In "Hi
audience. "
"I have been thrilled by the oxprrl
crices of thoie bit few flays." the Pi '
dent said, "and I will go lininp to W
Ington and smilo at tho gpiitleineu n
sav the I'nlted Stntes is not awak'
"Those gallant men who sit on "ip
hill In Washington and make nur l.' s
are going to deliver the goods- " ie
ciowd cheered. "Don't misunders i d
me: they are going tn deliver the gi ids
because you want the goods delivered"
The president said t.he time had i nie
for him to ask ills fellow citizen 'i
"get up on your hindless and talk
tell the people who represent vnu
the nation desires nnd demands
T'
thing that everybody In a demnrrai
listening for is the tramp tramp -tn
of the facts."
"1 have come to ask you what Is
of me In this task of preserving al
pcaoo and your honor." the Pros I
said. "The Judge on the l-nch ha: '
law hack of him with its bailiffs, she I1'
national guardsmen and the Ft lied
States army, but if you Ignore In . oiih
foreign capital what the President l rsi
as Hie rights of tho people and go- e -merit
of the I'nlted States what Is t -e
back of It?
"It Is necessary that I should i
and ask you this question, becaf -r I
don't know how long- the mere -v d
,'ind Insistence of your governmnt w ill
prevail to maintain your honor and the
dignity nnd pnwer of the HHtlon.
"There may eninn a time I pray Hod
It may never conic but it may In spite
of everything wo can do upon us
when 1 shnll have ti ask 'I have said
my say; who stands hack of It?' When
Is that force by which the right and
majesty of tho I'nlted States arc t i "ie
vindicated and asserted?"
, The President declared the need w.i"
Immediate and that action should be
begun within tho present month.
"I assure you there Is not a dav to
be lost," he said. "Not because thrv
is any special crisis, but becauso
I do
not know twenty-four hours
ahead
what will happen
"The future does not depend upo-.i
but upon commanders f tdiips
an 1 o
submarine.-! and upon blockades and
pon
many other men. big and little.
"I have icnd editorials." he said, "sure'
ins at the number of notes sent .ilmul
by the government and asking why d i) t
the government act, and In these s,i e
papers I have seen eqiionais a. una
meiiaratlon to do anything whateve
ef
fectlve. If these notes are tn be regarded
Is that the temper nt the I'nlted States'
It may be the temper of some edit om'
ntllecs,' but 1 know It is not the temper ''
the people of the United States."
A wave of applause swept ovet
gathetlnc A voice In the gallery
"No!" and the crowd yelled again
Tlio President presented a warning ' '
most !t the munition factories of
I'nlted States weie on the Atlantic
lib'
sea
board and that herefore the nation i.li.st
bo ready to teppl the llrst attack in order
to avoid disaster. Tlio present arm , Hi
President said, was so small that h1 i' i
not even have enough soldiers to st t in
along the Mexican border to pr vt
bandits from crossing the line.
"I have even felt," he said, "like
isl.
bur Congress to encourage the recr
il ok
of Texas rangers. We aie witneu
cataclysm and Hod onlv knows w'ic
Issue shall be." wan the w.o he pie
his conclusion In which ht iislted his
enco to keep cool, bul to upholc.
Judgment of the govrinmeti! In Iti
mauds for a litiwr, mo" effective n
of iiutloii.i! defense."
ll
JI I
KANSAS CITY, 1110.,
