s£
j/fe1'
mmmi
%#«}W
r,A
Mi '4% ^,
5S/^
(wM
/®A s'
rf1
^Vt:
VOL. XXXV—NO. 41.
*kti
ty The following comparison of weather
^reports for January of this year with
that of the same month in 1915 shows
that we have been having some weath
er this year. In 1915 the highest tem
perature of the month was 35, while
in 1919 it was 32 on Jan. 22. The max
jmum temperature for the 24 hour per
iods was below zero five days in 1915
and 11 deys in 1916. The lowest high
temperature of any date in 1915 was
10 below, while in 1916 it was 30 be
low. The longest period of tempera
ture below zero in 1915 was three
days in 1916 it was six days. The
lowest temperature for the month of
1
-t
&?.%*
gi
St I
wW
WJh:
SSTYJ jfV
mm
dL
tA&YIg
January, 1915, was 36 below in 1916.
42 below. Number of days that mini
mum temperature was below zero in
1915, 19 number of days in 1916, 29.
The only two days that the minimum
was above zero in 1916 was Jan. 21
and 22. The number of days the min
imum temperature was ore than 20 be
low in 1915 was seven days, while in
1916 it .was 12 days. The highest min
imum temperature was 15 in each year.
The snow fell in 1915 on five days
in 1916 on ten days. The total pre
cipitation in 1915 was .2 of an inch,
and 1.03 of an inch in 1916. The total
amount of snow fall in 1916 was about
13 inches.
Governor Hanna Will
Start for Home Feb. 5
The Hague, via London, Jan. 31.—
Governor L. B. Hanna of North Dako
ta, who went abroad with the Ford
peace party and was taken ill in Cop
enhagen, has arrived here. He will
sail on next Saturday for the United
States.
Fargo, Feb. 1.—E. G. Clapp, Gover
nor Hanna's son-in-law, received a ca
blegram Monday from the governor.
The message was from The Hague and
stated that he will sail on Feb. 5 on
the New Amsterdam for New York.
The cablegram stated that he has
entirely recovered his be&lth and it is
expected that he will come direct to
Fargo as soon as he lands in New
York.
Williston Has Visions
Williston, Jan. 31.—With oil wells
already pouring out their wealth in
southeastern Montana and natural gas
wells supplying Havre and other near
by Montana cities, while drilling is
in progress at Plentywood, Ante
lope, Glasgow and many other points
a comparative short distance from
Williston, discussion of the possibili
ties of oil and gas underlying the coal
deposits of western North Dakota is
again being revived. The first tangi
ble evidence that oil is thought .to be
present in western Norttf Dakota was
the order .of the president, issued a
few days ago withdrawing from entry
a considerable amount of land in Bow
man and Slope counties under the pe
troleum reserve act. This is the first
land ever reserved in this state under
this act.
Williston has a number of residents
who hare given some study of oil pos
sibilities in this section of the state,
and who believe that either oil or gas,
or both, will ultimately be found here,
Joseph Wegley believes that natural
gas is available for Williston and in
an interview with a Herald represen
tative this week, said that he would
willingly share in the expense or mak
ing a test. Should natural gas be dis
covered, it would prove a great asset
for the city and the community, while
the discovery of oil would naturally
mean a tremendous advance in la®d
values in the territory embraced by
.the oil fields.
Robert Anderson left Saturday night
for St. Paul to look after business mat
ters for a day or two. Mrs. Anderson
will leave Monday evening to join him
there and together they -will. take a
trip lasting several weeks, through
southern climes. Mr. and Mrs. Chas.
Peterson will occupy their residence
during their absence.
to
Frank Helmes left Saturday night
for the Twin Cities and other Minneso
ta points for a week or ten days.
w«^y
jj,1^
Weather Man Compares
1915-1916
The Neighborly Study club held its
regular meeting Monday afternoon
with Mrs. S. S. Tuttle and despite the
stormy weather there was a good at
tendance. The domestic science les
son consisted of a demonstration of
soups and how to make them. This
yas conducted by Miss Tillson in her
usual interesting manner. Two va
rieties of soup were made and gener
ous samples passed to those present.
The civics lesson was conducted by
Mrs. E. M. Harding and dealt with the
courts of our own state. It proved a
very interesting and instructive sub
ject and brought forth much discus
sion. Besides the regular members of
the club there were several visitors
present, including Mrs. Spurr, dean of
women of the Normal school, and a
group of Normal students.
The next meeting of the club will be
held at the home of Mrs. W. O. Bough
ton in the Sheyenne flats when they
will have as their guests the Sbeyenne
club. This meeting will occur Feb. 14.
Swedish Lutherans Agree on
Two North Dakota Districts
The North Dakota district of the
Minnesota conference held its conven
tion in this city last week. All the
Swedish Lutheran pastors of the
state were present except one, Rev
Gulleen, of Tolley. On Thursday Rov.
Solomonson, president of Northwest
ern college of Fergus Falls, Minn., was
also present. While we regret the in
clemency of the weather, preventing
many of our people from attending the
sessions, nothing but good can be said
,of the meeting. Important business
was transacted and edifying sermons
preached. By decision of the pastors
and delegates present the' North Da
kota district was divided into two dis
tricts. This change was made on ac
count 9f the great distance some have
to travel in coming to the annual meet
ings. It was also decided by the dis
trict that Rev. E. A Martell, the local
pastor, secure an assistant. He will
thus be enabled '.o spenl at least two
Sundays out of three in this city. Both
these business transactions are pend
ing the decision of the Minnesota con
ference of the Augustana Synod which
will hold its meeting in Minneapolis
Feb. 23-29. Final action will then be
taken and it is hoped the recommen
dations from the district will be fav
orably acted upon. The visitors were
all very much pleased with the new
church and congratulated the pastor
and congregation upon being able now
to worship in their own 'beautiful tem
ple. The convention adjourned last
Thursday evening. A hearty thanks to
all who entertained guests both in
church and in the. homes.
Veteran Senator Urges
Army of 200,000 Men
Washington, Jan. 31.—The status of
the national guard in any prepared
ness plan that may be worked out by
the present congress was discussed
in detail by witnesses today before
the senate and house military commit
tees.
Brigadier General Mills, chairman of
the militia division of the war depart
ment, declared a federalized militia
would be the best foundation on which
to build the proposed continental
army, and Brigadier General Crowder,
judge advocate general of the navy,
examined on legal aspects of federali
zation, said it involved Questions on
which the court had never passed.
National guardsmen will be given a
hearing tomorrow by both commit
tees. The executive committee of the
national guard association and numer
ous state olftcials have been invited
to present their views.
Other witnesses today included Gen
eral Nelson A. Miles, who told the
senate committee that the country
should have a standing army of 150,000
in peace times so organised as to form
the skeleton of an army that they
could be recruited to total 394,000 in
war times.
Senator Knute Nelson of Minnesota,
a civil war veteran, appeared before
the senate committee In advocacy of a
standing army of 200,000.
»«-.
Tuesday afternoon, at Leal, occurred
the marriage of George StiJea, Jr., to
Miss Gladys Oglesby, formerly of this
city. Details are lacking at the pres
ent writing, but further notice will ap
pear later.
Mr. and Mrs. Percy Persons return
ed Sunday night from Lethbridge, Al
berta, having been on the way since
Thursday morning. They were com
pelled to wait a couple of days in Med
icine Hat on account of delayed trains.
They report a scarcity of flour and
coal in that section of the country, but
an abundance of snow.
A. E. Highum, tonsorial artist at the
Risa parlors, went to Cooperstown
Tuesday morning, expecting to return
in the evening.
"Suffrage" Was Topic
for the Sheyenne Club
The Sheyenne club met Monday aft
ernoon at the home of Mrs. Harvey
Pray, with a good attendance. The
program for the afternoon -was along
suffrage lines, and Miss Candis Nelson
gave a talk on "Suffrage," while Mrs.
B. A. Wallace talked on the property
rights of women in North Dakota.
Both talks were followed by an ani
mated discussion. On Feb. 14 the
Sheyenne club will be the guests of
the Neighborly Study club at the home
of Mrs. W. O. Boughton in the Shey
enne flats.
Organize Gym Class
dially invited to come and join the
class. This Is not a denominational
affair at all and ladies of all the
churches,, or who have no church affili
ation are welcome to unite in this
recreation movement. A season ticket,
is procurable on the payment of a
small sum. The gym -work will be in
charge of Miss Ruth Cranz, of the phy
sical education department of the Nor*
mal school. Wednesday evening no
work was done in basket ball as a num-
"1"
W*r r»v A^
VALLEY CIT.Y, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 191«.
Were Married on
Tuesday at Leal
Illlllllllllllllllll llllllllilllllllllll
Thrift Day, February 3rd
February 3rd, 1916, wis named as Thrift
Day. This Bank, through its Savings De
partment, will assist and promote the com
mendable habit of swing.
In a time of so much destruction caused
by the war, saving becomes in this country
not only a virtue but a duty. In no other
way can we render the assistance needed or
become financially strong ourselves.
Start a Savings Account today and keep
adding to it—daily if possible. Every day is
Thrift Day at the Savings Department of the
Bank of Valley City
The Auxiliary Guild met Wednesday church in any convention thus far held,
evening in the parlors of the Congre- The program was all that it had
gational church and for the first time been advertised. There was not a
had the full benefit of the gymnasium, dull moment from the opening of the
About 40 ladies were present and en-!first session. The singing of Naftzger
joyed the supper and royal good fellow- was superb Dr. Herbert Johnson car
ship among the members there. The! ried the audience with him every step
gymnasium class is not yet fully or-las he told of the perils to Christianity
ganized, but enough have pledged their, in ease-loving America today James
support that the Brotherhood has McNaughton held the audience spell
turned the recreation rooms dver toj bound as he told of the horrors of the
the ladies for each Wednesday eve-J Armenian atrocities which have been
ning. That means that the ladies will. taking place since the war.
have the entire basement of the church The convention will close Sunday,
to themselves on these evenings. Any-The pulpits of the city will be sup^
lady in the city who would like to have plied morning and evening by speak
the benefit of the gymnasium is cor- era from the team and two rallies will
ber of tie girl, b* not yet procured J'17
gym suit., ,o folk fencing wu th.!^'?J™°g
time well benltbful exerclw
Little Friends Help
Celebrate Birthday
Saturday afternoon six or seven lit
tle folks gathered at the home of Mr
and Mrs. A. C. Smith, on North Fourth
avenue to help Robert, or "Bobbie,"
celebrate his eighth birthday. The
mothers came also, and while the little
folks played games and had a fine
time the mothers enjoyed a visit to
gether. The rooms were beautiful in
pink decorations, while pink carna
nations shed fragrance all around. The
birthday cake was decorated with
pink candles, and everything was done
to make the occasion a happy one.
Bobbie received some very nice gifts
from his little friends, and all enjoyed
the afternoon.
E. H. McFarland returned Saturday
from a trip to the western part of the
?tate where he went on business.
1
Many Teams Attended
Missionary Convention
Fargo, Jan. 28.—The greatest relig
ious gathering ever held in the North
west, the Laymen's Missionary con
vention, reached a great climax today.
The records of all previous conven
tions of this series of 75, which are be
ing held in all parts of the nation this
year, has been broken in several re
spects. When the convention closed
last night 126 cities outside of Fargo
and Moorhead'were represented. This
surpasses Boston, Mass., -which up to
this time held the record with 95 out
side towns in which, however, suburbs
outside the corporate limits of the
city were counted as outside towns.
At the same time the registration num
bered 1,257, which outstrips the rec
ords of convention cities several times
the size of Fargo. The First Metho
dist church now holds the record of
I having more men registered than any
be held in the afternoon, one in Moor
head and the other in Fargo.
Epworth League Gave
Most En joyable Party
main pteunre ot the erenlng. Some unique
erer, buket bill .nd other kind. We. were enjoyed, Inter
game, will be Indulged In.nd good!^™*"*
to be had,by all vho eal* to Join. »»t «Uoy»ble tlm..
Weather conditions do not daunt the
land man. North Dakota land is eag- arrange for a match with Bert Bruns
erly Inspected by people in spite of or others. He wrestled Persons in Far
snow and cold. The Valley City Land! go Monday night and reports a hard
company had Iowa parties oat looking fought match from beginning to end,
at land on the first day of February, in Person winning the match, but one tell
bob sled. (being accredited to Mo«.
mSiaE
The Epworth League of the M. E.
mcMa,'ullf,
«««t.ln.d
ITple n'ebt
a^te^^,,ICl,
We,eDt
Nels Moe, the wrestler, came in on
No. 7 Tuesday morning from Fargo to
,1
"Please Remit"
The Times-Record is sending out
subscription statements hoping for
immediate results. The amount for
each subscriber is only a few dollars,
but the aggregate means several
thousand dollars to us. We are oper
ating under a heavy expense and trust
that we will have the co-operation of
our patrons by prompt attention and
remittance.
Mrs. Geo. W. Hanna Is entertaining
her aunt. Mrs. Harriet Yackey, who Is
on her way from a visit with her son at
Washburn, from which place she ar
rived Saturday evening. On Monday
evening she will leave for Trent. S. D.,
to visit her daughter, Mrs. Louden
slager. whose husband was formerly
principal of the high school when the
school was held in the church base
ment.
C. Van Altvorst, of Minneota, Minn.,
is in the city this week. He is a dealer
in Percheron, Belgain and French draft
horses and has his weather eye out for
any possible purchases.
Domestic Club Enjoyed an
Interesting Demonstration
Friday evening the Domestic club
held an exceptionally interesting meet
ing at the home of Mrs. C. A. Olsen in
the Beeman block. There was a good
attendance in spite of the heavy snow
and they met promptly at 7:30. At 8
o'clock the club went in a body to the
Luessen meat. market, where C. F.
Luessen demonstrated the different
cuts of meats, cutting up a half of
beef, pork and veal for the benefit of
the ladies, showing which were the
choice cuts for the parious purposes
and in many ways giving them point
ers on choosing and knowing meats.
It was a most interesting and instruc
tive lesson and the ladies thoroughly
appreciated the kindness of Mr. Leus
sen in making the demonstration. The
club then, returned to the Olsen home,
where a business meeting was held,
after which the hostess served re
freshments. All the members felt
amply repaid for getting out in the
snow.
Basis of Assessment
Fixed by Committee
Bismarck, Jan. 29.—The special com
mittee appointed at the general meet-
F. E. Burton, auditor of Richland
county and president County Auditors'
association.
James A. Brown, auditor of Rolette
county.
F. E. Packard, chairman North Da
koto tax commission.
R. E. Wallace, member North Da
kota commission.
Carl O. Jorgenson, member of state
board of equalization, and,state audi
tor.
O. E. Loftus, commissioner Walsh
county.
1
jr
J,
Preparations Must Be Made for
War in Near Future, Says Wilson
ing of county auditors, the tax com- men to our shores. I know they come
mission, the county commissioners,! to be free.
and members of the state board of
equalization, and city assessors, met
at the Grand Pacific hotel, Wednes
day evening. All members appointed
were present.
F. F. Vaughan, auditor of Towner you out of war."
county. He went on to say the nation
State Auditor Jorgenson was elected' come. That is the reason I am urging
secretary. on the congress of the United States
.The question of fixing a percentage,that at least part of the people should
of the actual value to be used for as-
w\
'k^w.'v-v
',v,^tK§,
V^ ^'V"
\S"
,-*
sf t+
ESTABLISHED 1«79.
Chicago, Jan. 31. The United
States has made preparation for im
mediate war as far as the navy is con
cerned, although the present naval
force is inadequate In size, President
Wilson declared tonight in an addresa
before several thousand in the Audi
torium here.
"We mean business," he said in
speaking of the preparedness of the*
administration's program. "We have
given to the present fleet of the United
States an organization such as it haa
never had before, I am told by Admiral
Fletcher," the president said, "and we
have made preparations for immediate
war so far as the navy is concerned."
The army, the president said, as at
present constituted, "is not large
enough even for the ordinary duties of
peace."
The president repeated his warn
ing that no time must be lost In
strengthening the defenses of the na
tion. He declared the government
was doing everything it could for pre
paredness.
Milwaukee, Wis., Jan. 31.—President
Wilson, speaking before the largest
audience of the present trip, today de
clared that the men who say Amerir
cans will not stand together in time
of trouble have "shot their bolt."
"I have not supposed that the men
whose voices seemed to show a threat
against us, represented even the peo
ple they claimed to represent," he
said.
The president spoke to an audience,
many of whom were of foreign birth.
He declared that he knew the men
who came to America loved liberty
and would stand by the ideals of
America.
He appealed to all Americans to
stand by the government in the na
tional defense plan.
"I want at the outset to remove any
misapprehension in your minds," said
the president. "There is no crisis
nothing new has happened. I came to
confer with you on a matter which
we should confer on in any event.
"We should see that our house is
set in order. When all the world is
afire the sparks fly everywhere."
America has drawn her blood and
energy out of almost all nations of
the world," he said. "We know that
our roots and traditions run back into
other soils. We cannot forget our
forebears.
"At the outset of the war it did look,
as if there was a division of domestic
sentiment which might lead up into
some errors of judgment. I, for one,
believe that that danger is past."
The crowd applauded. "I never
doubted that the danger was exagv
gerated. I know the magic of Amer
ica. I know the impulses which draw
"I know that when the test comes
every man's heart will be first for
America," he declared amid applause.
"The trouble makers have shot their
bolts. They have been loud but inef
fectual. Their talk costs nothing."
"I pledge you," he continued sol
emnly, "that, God helping, I will keep
wanted him to preserve the honor of
the United States. The applause con
tinued. He told how difficult it was
to do both.
"This people is not going to choose
war," he went on, "but we are dealing
with governments rather than people,
and we do not know what an hour or
a day will bring forth.
"I want the people to Juiow some
thing of military life if the call should
{be
trained.
sessing was first taken up. During] "As I came along the line of the
the discussion it appeared there was a: railway today I was touched to observe
general feeling that property in North'that on every standard where a flag
Dakota was being assessed upon a 25-could be raised floated the Stars and
per cent basis. The tax commission Stripes.
had sent out such instructions during "Those lines of red are lines of blood
a previous year, and were in favor of .nobly and unselfishly shed by men
recommending that percentage this 'who loved the liberty of their fellw
year. There seemed to be no doubt! men more than their own lives and
but that an assessment of all property 'fortunes.
at 25 per cent would produce a total "God forbid that we should have to
assessment which would produce the use the blood of America to freshen
required state revenue. Jthe color of that flag but, if it should
Mr. Packard Moved that this com-'again be necessary to assert the mar
mittee recommend that 25 per cent ofjjesty and Integrity of those
the full and actual value be used inland honorable principles, tnat flag will
the assessment of all property, with be glorified and purified again."
the exception of moneys and credits.
The motion carried, all voting aye.
In the matter of assessment of C. H. Wunn, Sr., of Cogswell, is a
moneys and credits Mr. Packard said guest at the home of his son, J. W.
it was his opinion that If a reasonable Wunn, of the Normal school faculty,
assessment be on this class, a large Mr. Wunn is en route home from the
Portion of it would be returned for Laymen's Missionary convention
(Cootlnaed oo Page 8) JcMUy held at fergo.
v^ipssi
".'. 'v.'
"v
