E BAR
DAILY TIM
VOL. XIX NO. 274.
HAKHK, VERMONT. TIIUJLSDAV, FKUHUAUV 3, 1010.
THICK. ONK CKXT.
TH
RE
IMS
19 OF CREW
ARE MISSING
Following the Sinking of the
..British Steamship Belle
of France
EUROPEANS OF CREW
HAVE BEEN LANDED
In Addition, 22 Lascars Are
Known to Have Been
Saved
London, Feb. 3. The British steam
ship Belle of Franco has been sunk. The
Europeans of the crew and 22 Lascars
have been landed. Nineteen Lascars are
missing.
BRITISH EXPECT
A HARD SMASH
ON ALLIES' LEFT
Germans Are Believed to Be Preparing
a Tremendous Offensive to En
deavor to Crush Their Way
Through to English
Channel
London, Feb. 3. The newspapers this
morning express the conviction that the
Germans are planning a new offensive on
a large scale against the left wing of
the allies. It is expected they will at
tempt to blast their way to Calais and
Dunkirk by the use of strong bodies of
infantry, supported by enormous masses
of artillery.
MILITARY OPERATIONS
VIRTUALLY AT A HALT
Although military operations on
the western front, as well as in
most of the other theatres of war,
are virtually at a halt, Iiondon ap
parently is expecting a new move
by the Germans in the near future.
The hit"st report1, however, on the
situation along the front in north
ern France and Flanders show little
but artillery firing, grenade light
ing and -similar minor operations.
(ireat distress in Poland is re
ported by the representatives of
the American relief organizations
who have reached Berlin, The suf
fering among the population of
the war-ravaged lands is particu
larly from tin hick of shelter and
fuel", while typhus and other dis
eases are prevalent. It is din-lared
that HO per cent, of the people are
dependent upon relief.
Influential voices are being
raised in Kngland against the de
mand recently heard for reprisals
because of the Zeppelin raids. One
prominent newspaper declares that
the effect could only be for the
worse and that no military advan
tages would accrue.
TWO DISTINCT SHOCKS
LINER APPAM
MOVES UP RIVER
Passengers To Be Taken to New York,
But Lieutenant Berge Is Holding
Many Men, Some of Whom He
Says Are British Soldiers or
Naval Men.
Newport News, Va., Feb. 3. The cap
tured British liner Appam, in charge of
her German prize crew, anchored in the
.lames river off here this morning. The
passengers were to be removed to barges
and taken to Norfolk to board a boat for
New York.
Lieutenant Berge still refuses to per
mit anyone aboard the liner except on
official business. He is holding more
than 200 people, including his own prize
erew, some 20 Germans who were prison-
ers of war on the Appam, Captain Har
rison and 12 passengers, who, he claims
belong to the British army or navy.
Were Felt in Eastern New York State
Last Night.
Schenectady, N. Y., Feb. 3. Two dis
inct shocks of an earthquake were felt
hero at 11:25 o'clock last night. Houses
were shaken and window panes were
broken in various sections of the county.
The shock threw the residents into mo
mentary excitement, and instantly the
police precincts and newspaper offices
were besieged by telephone calls. The
shock was of such force as to shake the
mammoth plant of the General Electric
company, where, because of recent mys-
enous explosions in various sections of
the country, it was feared an explosion
had taken place.
Saratoga Springs on the north, Am
sterdam and all points within a radio
f 25 miles of tins city also felt the
lock.
Gloversvil'e, N. V., Feb. 3. A severe
earth tremor lasting several seconds was
felt here at 11 :2." r. m. last night. Re
ports from all sections of the city state
that the shock was plainly noticeabl
buildings being shaken and furniture an
other articles moved from their places.
TRAINS GIVE
UP RUNNING
Because of 2VL Feet of Snow
That Has Fallen in the
Pacific Northwest
NATIVE OF VERMONT.
PORTLAND, OREGON,
ALL BUT ISOLATED
In Seattle, Wash., City Life
Has Been Greatly
Disorganized
Seattle, Wash., Feb. 3. The Pacific
Northwest to-day again faced the task
of battling with an almost' unprecedent
ed snow storm, which has paralyzed rail
omuiunication, disorganized city life
and done thousands of dollars' worth of
damage to buildings not strong enough
to withstand the weight of the more
than two feet and a half of snow on
the roofs. In Portland sleet has fallen
or 48 hours, driven bv a fierce wind,
practically cutting the city off from all
methods of communication.
BOSTON WAS ALSO
HARD HIT BY STORM
Troy, N. Y., Feb. 3. Rensselaer eoun
ty last night experienced an earthquak
shock, the second within a month.
11:25 o'clock, windows in many house
in this city rattled for several second
and some structures vibrated so violent
ly that residents hurried into the streets
No material damage was done, however,
so far as known.
Albany, N. Y.f Feb. 3. An earthquak
shock was felt here at 11:25 o'clock lus
night. Reports from places west of Al
bany said two distinct shocks were felt
No reports of any damage being done
were received.
MORGAN GOES TO EUROPE.
SURELY PRIZE OF WAR
Declares Secretary of State Lansing
About the Appam.
Washington, D. C. Feb. 3. Secretary
of State Lansing said to-day there was
no question as to the status of the Brit
ish steamship Appam as a prize of war
but that the question of her disposition
still involved further consideration of
The Hague convention arftl the Prussian
American treaty. The refusal of Lieu
' tenant Berge, who brought the vessel
into Hampton lioada flying the German
flag, to land British seamen who were
gun pointers on the British merchant
man will be the subject of further consideration.
WAS ONCE IN VERMONT.
Harold L. Severy Escaped from Institu
tion, His Father Says..
Los Angeles, Cal., Feb. 3. "I think
there is no doubt that my son is de
ranged." This statement was made here
last night by M. L. Severy, father of
Harold L. Severy, who is under arrest
in Albany, N. Y., in connection with the
shooting of four persons in that city last
Friday night. , $
Mr. Severy Faid he had been unable to
communirate directly with his son dur
ing the last two or "three years, but had
beard from him through round about
sources. Ho said his son suffered an in
jury to his head several years ago when
he was made the victim of a hazing par
ty while an art student in Boston.
Harold was sent to a sanitarium at
Waverly, Mass., after he was injured,'
News of His Trip Caused Great Surprise
and Interest in New York.
New York, Feb. 3. J. P. Morgan
sailed last night for England aboard the
steamship Kottertlam. He was accompa
nied by Benjamin Strong, governor of
the New York federal reserve bank
Announcement that the two men were
to visit London caused much surprise
and interest in financial circles.
At the Morgan banking house, no dc
tails regarding Mr. Morgan's trip wen
obtainable beyond the statement that
business affairs would engross his atten
t'ion while, abroad. It is underwood that
Mr. Morgan will spend at least a month
in London, and his stay may extend be
yond that time.
This will be Mr. Morgan s second trip
to England since the war began, Ihc
first was followed bv the announcement
that J. P. Morgan & Co. had been ap
pointed commercial agents of the British
government in this country. Soon after
ward the hrm was selected to act in a
similar capacity for the French govern
ment. In their capacity as commercial
agents to the two governments, Morgan
S. company have purchased or supervised
the purchase of supplies costing hundreds
of millions of dollars.
Intimations that Mr. Morgan's coming
trip might not be unrelated to another
external loan by the allies met with de
nial from one of his business associates.
It is believed, nevertheless, that the
British and French governments are con
sidering the advisability of offering an
other external loan. Rumor places the
amount of the undertaking at $250,000,
000, or half that of the five per cent,
isue floated here last year.
BOAT EXPLOSION KILLED TEN.
Four Others Were Seriously Injured in
Ohio River. '
Huntington. W. Va., Feb. 3. Ten' per
sons were killed and four seriously
burned by the explosion of the boilers
on the towboat Sam Brown of Pittsburg
in the Ohio river here yesterday. The
dead include the captain, L. C. Blair, of
Pittsburg.
The explosion is believed to have been
due to the admission of cold water into
The Fall Was Heaviest Since 1909, and
Trains Were Somewhat DelayedA
Promise of Clearing Weather.
Boston, Feb. 3. A snow storm which
bgan yesterday in southeastern New
Englund had extended to the Cana
dian border to-day with the heaviest fall
in this city and moderate gales off the
coast. The government bureau reported J
John H. Ryan, St. Johnsbury Carriage
Manufacturer, Dead.
St. Johnsbury, Feb. 3. John II. Ryan
for runny year a member of the firm
of Miller & Ryan, carriage, manufac
hirers, nuJ a leading business man and
property owner of tho town, died yes
tenia v morning of Ilnght's disease. Ho
bad scrxed tho town as selectman, the
village as trustee and hud held oilier
town olhces.
He was one of the men who helped
found St. Aloysius' parish when it was
sepj rated from Notre Dame church. He
whs bo:n in .Moretown, July 29, 1844
attended Northlield academy and at SiO
began to learn the , carriage makers'
trail.j in Moretown.
He came to St. Johnsbury in 18(17 and
after -working for 12 years for the Mil
er Furnace company, became a mem
ber of the firm. "On Mr. Miller's death
he bought out tho Miller interests and
managed the factory alone until two
years fgo, when he sold it because of
poor health.
He was a mcmlier of Sheridan coun
oil, K. of C.,' an Holy Name society
In 1879 Mr. Ryan married Miss Mary
Fitzgerald, who died in 1SS4. He is
survived by one daughter, Miss Lillian
Ryan, a talented musician, and by seven
sisters. Mrs. Mary Corry of Middlesex,
Mrs. Daniel McCarty of Northlield, Mrs.
Joseph Perkins, Mrs. Katherinc Glynn,
Mrs. Nora Lynch and Miss Anlstie Kyan
of Montpclier, and Mrs. Ellen Dwycr of
Concord.
:!a fire "jinx"
PURSUES MILL
AN ALLEGED CONFESSION
that the storm would probably move
out to sea before night and be followed
by clearing weather.
The snowfall in Boston was the heavi
est since 1000, more than ten inches
having fallen by mid-forenoon, with no
signs of abating. Trains were slightly
delayed.
NOW LOCKED IN CELL.
I the Ixiilers. The bout was bound down
Mr. Severy said. "Later he was trans- the river with a cariro ofVnal. but had
ferred to sanitarium in Vermont, from aied up here to take on additional barges,
which be escaped. That was two or three 'The blast was terrific, bodies and wreek-
yesrs ago. Mnce then l nave been un
able to communicate with him directly."
SAYS HE'S MAN SLAYER.
James Mellow Surprises Providence Po
lice by Surrendering Himself.
Providence, K. I., Feb. 3. .lames Mel
low, alias James Morris, wanted in con
nection with the claying of three men
at the old railway station building in
Kingston on Saturday niht. walked into
police headquarters here last night and I
jrave himseit up.
I am Morriii, wanted for the Kings-
age being hurled to the shore on !oth
sides of the river, Charles Shaffer, who
died later, was insane when fnund on
a floating piece of wrckage. A big steel
safe was blown ashore.
The boat carried a erew of 23 per
sons, many of whom, however, were on
the coal tow at the time of the explo
sion
But John Edward Teiper Has Not Been
Formally Charged.
Buffalo, N. Y., Feb. 3. John Edward
Teiper was locked up in a cell at police
headquarters at four o'clock yesterday
afternoon at the request of Sheriff Sten
gel of Erie county. No charge was made
against him in connection with the mur
der of nis mother and brother, and the
probable fatal wounding of his sister,
the victims of the Orchard Park tragedy.
John Martin, superintendent ot police,
said Teiper was still the sheriff's prison
er and that he was held at headquarters
as a mat ter of courtesy to the Erie coun
ty officials, an agreement having been
reached between them and George A.
Lewis and Edward R. O'Malley, counsel
for Teiper, that Teiper s status should
remain the same as it had been for the
previous 24 hours. j
Asido from 1 vipers first incarceration
n a cell, the most important event of
the day was the announcement by Dis
trict Attorney Dudley, that the owner
ship of the revolver found near the mur
der automobile had been established and
hat Teiper had signed a statement ad
mitting that it was' his and also that it
was in his possession on the night of
the murders. Teiper said he Ixnigbt
the revolver about two weeks ago from
a dealer at Orchard Park. rp to yester
day. Mr. Dudley said, Teipet had denied
ownership of the revolver.
In addition to the bullet wound in the
face of Mrs. Teiper there were three
bullet holes in the body of the auto
mobile in which her body was found
iter the tragedy. All six chambers of
he revolver were empty when the weap
on was found. The medical examiner
aid after the post mortem examination
that the bullet had been fired into Mrs.
eiper's face after she had died from the
Meets of the wounds on tin head, in-
ictcd by a hammer or some other blunt
instrument.
Teiper attended the funeral of his
mother and brother yesterday morning.
lie services were held at Mrs. Teiper s
late home in Richmond avenue, and at
he convent of the Blessed Sacrament.
Teiper attended both services and went
to the cemetery where the bodies were
buried. He was accompanied bv the
heriff and a deputy. .
After dinner at the home of his fa
ther-in-law, Alton H. Newton, in Argyle
l ark, he was taken back to police head
quarters and locked up. Before leaving
the Newton home, he saw his wife and
three children. His oldest child is two
and a half years old, and the youngest
a baby of six weeks.
No improvement was noted in the con
dition of Miss Grace J. Teiper, who has
been lying at the point of death for three
days. She is unconscious most of the
time and during the brief moment of
consciousness that occur her words are
unintelligible.
Implicates George Parr on in Rutland
County Robbery.
Rutland, Feb. 3. -With the arrest yes
terday of George Parron of this city, for
merly of Orwell, and the subsequent re
covering of a considerable quantity of
goods stolen from the Burr store in the
town of Rutland on Tuesday night in
the Parron apartments over the La voice
store on Washington street, together
with a written confession signed by Mr.
Parron, Deputy Sheriff Pascal Ricci and
Chief of Police B. S. Hvlund believe that
they have solved the mvsterv surround
ing the recent breaks at the Byrnes store
in Center Rutland the robberies at the
Rutland Fire Clay company and the Burr
store and with a possible clue to the
The Busy North Montpelier
Plant Has Third Se
rious Fire Loss
PICKER HOUSE WAS
BURNED TO-DAY
Company Is Rushed with
Orders aid to Be
i for the Allies
breaks at the two places in Fair Haven
on Sunday night. Paron when arrested
was in the act of repeating his break at
the Byrne store when he was caught in
the act by Harry Shedd of West street,
captured and held until Deputy Sheriff
Ricci had arrived and placed him in the
county jail. His partner, Joseph Martin
was arrested last night
Parron has implicated others in the
burglaries, who the officers are trying
to connect with the breaks. When he
confessed to the break at the Burr store
Parron wus lead to believe that he was
writing to a friend to assist him in get
ting rid of the stolen goods which were
discovered in the rooms over the Lavoice
store
$3,ooo SUIT FOR A LIFE.
International Paper Company Defendant
in Action.
Rutland, Feb. 3. Deputy United
States Marshal K. S. Whittaker of this
city was in Bellows Falls yesterday,
where be served papers on the Interna
tional Paper company in connection with
a suit for SS.fMM) -which has been tnsti
tuted by Gilbert A. Davis of Windsor as
administrator of the estate of the late
George V. Olm'stead.-
The notion is based on a claim that on
Feb. 11, 1015, when the company was
building a pier on the New Hampshire
side of the Connecticut river, Olmstead
received injuries as the result of the ex
plosion of a big charge of dynamite,
which terminated in his death March 15.
The suit is brought in behalf of his
widow, and six childrer. under chapter
191 of the public statutes of New Hamp
shire. The International Paper company
being a New York state corporation, the
case will be tried in the United States
court. The Wit is returnable at the
sitting of the February term of the
court, which will be held at Burlington.
For the third time within a few years
fire this morning destroyed the picker
mill connected with the woolen mill as
North Montpclier. The blaze was discov
ered around 7 o'clock and a short time
afterward the building was practically
in ruins. The loss is $2,000 and is cov
ered in part by insurance of $1,000 car
ried in the McAllister & Kent agency of
this city. Adjusters from the Barre
agency were notified to come to North
Montpelier as soon as possible, aa the
manufacturers are anxious to restore the
mill at an early date.
It is thought probable that a nail or
possibly a pebble concealed in the wool
as it was passing through the picker ma
chine may liave struck a spark in coming
in contact with the picking knives.
Heavily saturated with oil, the wool is
easily ignited and once a spark is struck
n the machine, it is very difficult to ex
tinguish the fire befora, it has gained a
commanding headway. Jn the tall oi
1014 a lire started under similar circum
stances and the mill,' which was then lo
cated about 30 feet from the main fac
tor', was reduced to ashes.
When the proprietors of the business
came to rebuild, the mill was located on
a site 50 feet from the woolen factory.
A water supply connecting with the mill
pond was introduced and because there
was a pipe and pump in the basement
capable of supplying 500 gallons of water
per minute, it was thought that the mill
could not be destroyed again. In 1014
help was summoned from rlainheld and
it was with difficulty that the mam
building, erected only a short time be
fore, was saved from the flames.
This morning the pumping device
worked satisfactorily and at no time was
the woolen mill in danger. According to
reports, the mill hands have been en
gaged for several weeks on a heavy con
tract for supplies destined for the allied
nations. Quantities of woolen blankets
for use, at the front and stored near the
picker room to await shipment were de
stroyed, althohgh the bulk of the con
tract was stored in the main building
Day and night shifts have been working
at the mill for some time, r.very effort
will be made to restore the building in
order that work on the larger contracts
may not be delayed. - , ,
WILD FREIGHT CARS
BUCKED AN ENGINE
Considerable Junk Was Promptly Man
ufactured on Central Vermont
Siding on Ladd Street
To-day.
Two freight cars, running wild from
a siding near the main line of the Barre
branch on Ladd street, eriudied into
freight engine No. 322 near the Cerrard
Barclay plant on Smith street this morn
ing and caused so much damugn that
freight traffic, in that section was tied
up throughout the day. A wrecking crew
and outfit was hurried to Barre from the
Central Vermont yard at Montpclier
Junction and at noon to-day it was
stated that the siding might be cleared
by night.
Engineer William Chayer, Fireman
Charles Sanborn and Conductor Frank
Cassava, who were aboard the freight
shifter, escaped without any injuries, but
one of the freight cars, a Barre Hat, as
t is called, which was luden with rough
granite, was partially demolished and
GITY ACCOUNTS
IN GOOD SHAPE
Auditors Have Completed
Their Work and Have
Made Report
$253 IN RENT
FOUND r
BE DUE
- V
V
COURT COLLECTED $80649
NATIONAL GRANITE ASSOCIATION.
Barre Man Was Elected One of the Vice
- Presidents.
Barre granite manufacturers were rep
resented in Boston this week at the an
nual meeting of the National Association
of Granite Industries by Alexander Dun-
During November, December and Janu
ary, Indicating a Busy Time.
Eighty-five criminal cases, an almost
unprecedented number for a winter quar
terly period, were entered in Barre city
court in the three months ending dan. 31,
according to returns received to-day from
the report filed by Judge H. W. Scott
w ith the state auditor. U is a matter of
record in the Barre court that offenses of
Several kinds are committed with more
ferquencv in the months of wtarmer
weather, but an aggregate of 85 entries
n November, December and January is
uncommon in this citv.
Tn the period mentioned the magistrate
collected in fines and costs $796.85, which
sum was 'turned over to the state aud
tor. Included in this total is a sma
amount made up of court fees collected
m a lew civil cases. Added to the tota
is $9.54, an amount representing un
claimed witness fees, which makes th
aggregate of receipts $80(5.30. Costs re
verted by the auditor to the magistrate
for disbursement as officers' fees, witness
and jury fees amounted to $509.82.
Figured in the aggregate of fines are
two $50 assessments levied for alleged
violations of the automobile laws and
one $300 tine imposed for an alleged vio
the draw bar on the front of the loco
motive was so badly stove in that the
engine will be out of commission for a
time. It is estimated that 120,000 tons
of stone were aboard the two flat cars
when they came down the incline from
Ladd Btreet to the (ierrard-Barclay
plant.
Just how the accident occurred is a
matter for the railroad men to decide,
but the surmise is made that when the
brakes on the two "flats" were tightened,
no allowance was made for the snow be
tween the brake shoes and the Hat sur
face of the wheels. If such were the
case, the brakes were partially released
once the snow melted. At any rate peo
ple living along Ladd street saw the
freighters start down the slope, gather
ing speed as the incline became more
pronounced.
Engineer Chayer saw the cars coming
along just as he had applied the loco
motive brakes near Smith street. The
freighters gathered momentum as they
rolled along and A. S. Jones, who saw
the cars just after they had started,
agreed with other spectators that a very
serious collision seemed inevitable. En- j
gineer Chayer instantly released Ins
brakes and the locomotive took on
slow, backing movement. Undoubtedly
tho pilots precaution in letting the en
gine travel gently backward served to
soften considerably the crash, when it
tinally came,
One of the flanges on the fore freigh
car was ripped off at the Smith stree
crossing and a moment before the col
lision, the front car left the rails. Ton
of rough granite were.liurled from the
flat surfaces of the cars and the locomo
tive received a jolt severe enough to
drive it back to the siding at ioung
Bros.' plant. Neither the engineer nor
the fireman, nor yet the conductor, who
was aboard the tender escaped without
a severe shakmg-up,
The
As? ients Due tho
C; "Amount to
$3,000.13
MYRT0N MASON DEAD.
can. president of the local association.
II. P. Hinman. the secretary, and W. D. bU'on of the liquor laws. A second fine
.Maelionald ot hast Barre, one of the ul '"lu milieu iur summr oneme win
vice-presidents. The meeting opened on
Tuesday morning and adjourned yester
day with a noonday banquet. H. E.
Fletcher of West Chelmsford, Mass., for
merly state senator, representative and
member of the governor's council, was
elected president of the national associa
tion. Alexander Duncan of Barre was
elected one of tint vira.nrnii.nt.'
Robert D. Smith was re-elected secre
tary, with headquarters in Boston. E.
M. MarniK-k of Quincy, Mass., was elect
ed treasurer.
NASHUA STRIKE MAY END.
Conference Between Mills and Operatives
is Being Held.
Nashua, N. II.. Feb. 3. A conference
be paid in supreme court, it is said, al
though it was assessed in the Barre court
and does not appear in the total noted
above,
FUNERAL OF MRS. KELMAN
Was Held This Afternoon Interment in
Hop Cemetery.
Funeral services for Mrs. Mary Kel
Lman who passed away at the home of
Mrs. H . J. Rogers of Allen street Tues
day evening, were held at the house this
afternoon at 1:30 o'clock. Rev. W. J. M
Beat tie, rector of the Church of the Good
Shepherd, officiating. The bearers were
James Patergon, Hugh Christie, William
. Russell and James K. Anderson. In
terment was made in the family lot at
GUILTY OF SIMPLE ASSAULT.
William Nagel Convicted in Caledonia
County Court.
RAILROAD MEN DEMAND RAISE.
ii w.. ...... TV, t. t a.
between .epre.ent.t.ves of the mills and ; U J of Irs. Kelman's mother. Mrs,
- l ... , .... '-e
" '"'T' , ? . .Vlew.l '",,n! Eliza Mitchell of Waterbury, was omit-
ine r.Kc. ,mn Marieu Here IVt. 4, was .,, in th ,1Kt -f lirv:t nn. .,.
held vesterda afternoon in the office of
;cn. Charles J. Mamblett, counsel for
the Nashua Manufacturing company, and
lated three hours.
After the meeting of the strikers, Tres.
Ciolden said: "The only thing that Duir
wpa rates the ftrikers and employes is
printed in yesterday's Times. Mrs. Kel
man was a long-time and faithful mem
ber of the I jt dies' Auxiliary to Clan (Jor-don.
C0LLETTI INQUEST ADJOURHED
St. Johnt-bury, Feb. 3. William Nigel
,ol this place, on trial in (aled'mia
Ik hi. wffe w. w " Y- V r -i. """'I. "'"V""1 t,,e ,r'"-: After Seven Witnesses Had Been Heard
kill hi. wile, wa je-terdy found gmltv inj opemt ives. The t.thrr issue the n
of .irnple asault. His sentence has not ,wEe s,V, recognition of and non.di.- l v'ncy, Mass.
Brotherhood Seeks Eight-Hour Day M , i. i ' lenniinaimn agau.M union operatives and Vmney. .Mas... t el. 3. 1 he inque-t on
KM t- 1 , , r. . i . ,..,- ir-u .UJII-IOI Mll- UW Ileal, 1 Ul .ill .MIM- PlllUt lOlirill OI
ftew tntland Systems. I Ryegate. was fomid g.iilty i.f a.ault n fa.-t-.rilv-. Uvden -tree'.. Wet ciincy, who was
IWton, rob. 3. The Brotherhood of 'a he -year "Id Uy anj received a sen- i "Agent M lhk. n said h .,11 ..t r..f.,.ji ! .,.,' t.i d.nth on thr ninht At .I.n C in
Railroad Station Krnrdnte. rwiirifiv -tenet of nut le. t!ii mw t-r i,..r l ... ..... .. - ... .. . .cm . i -j: i
Ion murder, he announced to t hief . mde demands cm t!e IWt-.n A Maine mure than two.y.ar. in State, pn-von he ran mke room for. though be d.- rt.-rdv aftem.n after .even of 31
Inpeelor wiinam r. O.Neil. i railroad for an eight -J.uur workm? dav at WindM.r. ( v ..n Clark, who vlid..d rJard th.t t..
HI per w.t advance in wage. g.itHy to a statutory -ha'e. rented a tle 2.11 .p, rtio. t work in or- 'arfim.rned till Saturday. The inoueat was
at similar swen. at Wind.tr. Kl -ren der to take .n Mrik.r. ....1 h i. .h.r t.1 A...itant fW
Former Barre Granite Worker Died at
Home on East Montpelier Road
Myrton Mason passed awav at his
home on the Last Montpelier road this
morning at 3:10 o clock, death follow
ing a nve days illness ot pneumonia, air,
Mason is survived by his wife, who was
Miss Sadie Adeline Freeman and to
whom he was married Julv 7, 1894, and
one son, Gerald Mason. Ho was born
in Williamstown Aug. 24, 1866, and at
the age of 11 he moved to the hast
Montpelier neighborhood, where he re
mained for the rest of his life. As a boy
he lived in the house of (Jeorge Lawson.
Mr. Mason lived in the house where he
died, the Mallory ' place, so called, for
the past four years. Formerly, he was
employed here in the granite industry,
having been an employe of Brown A Car
roll, and for 12 years he worked in the
M. 4 W. R. freight depot in Barre. He
was a member of Granite City camp, M.
W." of A., and also belonged to the
Knights of Maccabees. For several years
he had held a card in the lumpers and
boxers' union.
Funeral services will be held at the
house Saturday afternoon at 1:30 o'clock
and interment will be made in Maple
wood cemetery. Rev. J. W. Burnett will
officiate.
The Barre municipal auditors have
completed their yearly examination of
various departmental acuounts. The re
port was presented to the city council at)
its regular meeting Tuesday night, but
yiinor changes were found to be neces
sary and the report was not completed
until yesterday afternoon. Below is the
report complete:
"We, the undersigned, auditors of tha
city of Barre, herewith submit our re
port for tho year ending December 31
191...
"We have carefully examined the
books and accounts of the city clerk and
treasurer, school treasurer, water super
intendent, cemetery commissioners, park
commissioners, trustee of cemetery trust
funds, library committee, overseer of
poor, school tuition account, and find
them correctly balanced and all expendi
tures properly vouched for; and havo
also verified the cash and securities held
by the treasurer, water superintendent,
overseer of poor, and park commission
ers. "We have also examined the books and
accounts of the Aldrich public library
and find the same correct.
"As required by the statutes, wo here
with subjoin a list of the obligations Qf
the city:
"City Bonds." -4
per cent refunding bonds, pay
able Julv 1, 1014, but optional
after July 1, 1914
4 per cent refunding bonds, pay
able May 1, 1916
4 per cent Lincoln school bonds,
payable $5,000 annually ..,.
4 per cent school bonds, payablo
April 1, 1934 (but optional
after April 1, 1924)
4 per cent school bonds, pavable
Oct. 1, 1934
$57,500
15.000
20,noo
49.000
63,500
$207,000
"City Notes."
4 per cent Elmwood cemetery
note dated Jan. 1, 1902, pay
able on demand
4 per cent Hope cemetery note
dated Jan. 1, 1902, .payable
on demand ". 2,315.99
4 per cent Hope cemetery note
dated Jan. 1, 190S, payable
on demand
4 per cent. Hope cemetery note
dated May 1, 1911, payable
on demand
4 per cent Elmwood cemetery
note dated May 1, 1911, pay
able on demand ,
$5,OS7.S5
5.337.81
500.00
800.00
$14,041.65
"Water Bonds."
4 per cent bonds payable $5,000
annually to 1918, balance June
1, 1919 $50,000
4 per cent bond-s due June 1,
1919, but optional after June
1, 1914
3's per cent bonds due Jan. 1,
1921. hut optional alter Jan.
1, 1910
per cent bonds due Jan. 1,
1922. but optional after Jan.
1, 101-S ,
per cent bonds payable S5.000
annually from Dec. 1, 1919, to
1927 inclusive
35,000
25,000
60,000
43.000
FOUND HORSE IN POOR SHAPE.
The police say Morris admitted know!- land
ige oi the murder, admitted having Brot herhood official, announced
l .ll.wt t nrrr.. Tl . 1 1 : f 1 I 1.... i . , ... ... .. ... .. . -
7 i i.i .""'" " nigi. inai mimr uemanis wiu M ma. Ap; ic!.. n. ia w,tl. I et ion lark. w. ro.,M t,,k, n.m for 2. of t'w .tr.ker. Fr-'I i. Ksttzmann. A warrant chargin
declared I that . it waa m aelf -defend an on the Doston A Albany road Satur lay , sent. -need to serve r. t ! Ih.a one ihw. and IS ...fmt,re m.W in order Co'Vtti with ti e murder of I... wife
aTirr i.ie latter BB4 slain ami rM-4 an-l on the .Maine lentral tif-xt Mondav. -rear nor noro than two at fir .,R. n .11... m. ... .... i ... . ... .w- .u.:- i:.. I
tiurtave od 0!en. the two S4- and that a imilar --- .ile w. hem? in-Ctutu.n. Sr,t n,t- a. i. . ...- .1 . 7 .- .. '. .1- . . 1 I-.l
It i iinJn-.tonii Cat Utwrvn H0 and wbe?e be continue, to ins prove, wall a rd. Vr mir Mi Thorns iaa Kc-Min
ia u ma UJi la work, WWt is - bead. Ed- Sac.
I
$215,000.
"Statement of Rents on City Property
and Bills Due."
Austin & Nelson, rent opera house
$1,435 yearly, pavable quarterly,
paid to" Dec. 1, 1015
Barre Citizens' band, rent $8 month,
due . . '.
Cu wings, E. W. rent $200, payable
quarterly, paid in full
Dunleavy, P. J., rent $11 month,
paid in full (property sold)
Pox & Eaton, due
Lambert, J. E.. due
Musicians' union, vacated, due ...
Painters' union, rent $10 month,
paid to date
Salvation Army, rent $13 month,
paid to date
Stacy. William, rent $9 month, paid
in full (property sold)
Officers Confiscated Animal and Con
signed It to Prompt Death.
An alleged cruelty case involving sev
eral unusual features was uncovered by
the authorities in a barn at 14 Charles
street yesterday, when a horse in the
last stages of a familiar equine disease
and three cows, suffering apparently
from hunger and thirst, were discovered.
The horse and cows belonged to Arthur
A. Stetson, who occupies a tenement at
that address.. Chief (Sinclair and Deputy
Sheriff Arthur A. Emery of Montpelier
the latter representing the Washington
County Humane society, were at the
barn in the forenoon and in the after
noon W. H. Mahoney, an agent of the
Burlington Rendering company, was au
thorized to put the horse out of its mis
erv. The cows were supplied with feed
and water ami two pigs, sadly 111 need
of liedding, were furnished the where
withal for a nighs's nap.
Officers of the law and humane society.
referring to the condition of the horse.
say they never have seen a more pitiful
peetacle. Apparently it. owner bad
tried to cure the animal after it had be
come too weak to stand, for a tackle out
fit had been used to keep the hore on
ts feet. When the officers arrived, the
horse, bereft of niot of it. hair and ly-
ng on the barn f.ooT. wemed ready to
xpire. The police got in touch with the
pr-idcnt of the county "ociety and by
tternoon the ncewiry authority for
dispatching the horse was wived, j
vteton'. wife sail to have td.I the
ofTWr. that her buh-nd had b-en gone j 1 007 1912 f?:i.Wt..'.3 f.V,2.44
$21
150
20
62
Total
C. V. R. R. Co. taxes 1913 (held
till decision of supreme court)
due Sept. 12, 1913, and interest
to date ,
"Assessments Due."
Street sprinkling account
Permanent street account .....
Sidewalk account
Sewer account .'
River Change account
$233
$183.3
$51S.7n
952.94
412.5S
S27.1 1
28.71
Total $3.000.1 3
"We have also examined the accounts
of (J. K Morris, delinquent tax collector,
and the following is a statement of
samei
2
2 6
threo day. She had not bn attending I
to the row. or the lior. Stt-on. it U
aid, i t-taying at bouse on Trow hill.
Tiie officer. etpe-H to bare a conference
with him in the rx-ar future.
i.n section nanls ot the .New Jlavm prepared for prewil-atim, t the New ber cat aaj U was la-d on j-roba-r04-!-
ork New Haven A llart.'urJ railroad.
Clerks' Notice.
Tlwe will 1-e a regular meeting of tV
R. I. P. A.. I .-si 41. Friday, r.h. 4.
at 1 :.' P. m. I.rg attn-lanr-e r ;- t
1913 7i.M lT7.4 ?14614
1914 l.f.42'W 1.701.42 1 42
If'li 2.24.V32 .V'4.79 194.7
$..V.4 95 4.7-'o-"9 $.142.35 $ 57
C9.57
Iie by CVlWfor Morns J272.71
'iU-t-e tl'u'iy mbmitted.
W. H. Varrien.
D. J . lna?t,
. William f-lrp n.
,aad I .My
