,1 '
'. ,-
t : i 1 1
PablUbol ovary Tnvadajr'k
i
It tfroted to tb bat InUrwU
of BPHAT and WHEELEK
COUNTY. Tlx lltwral patron
... KUB8ELL a man..,, 1 ,r t
Subaeriptloa Rata . , . ,
trr .....iloo
8I Month...,,,.,,,,,,, .to
Xhrw Months. .. ......... J
Mr oi th dtlMna of thU
Man U rwpwtfull olklud.
.VOL. XIII.
A n i SPItA IT, WTTEB LEIt , COVUVTt PEEPON THURSDAY tfEHItUARY 3, 1910.
NO. 61.
" aCv
PifffJ : " ' UJJIf: J M r H "
Il l Vl II " I II I II v IU7 f II I II I MA II III III III a, III
" ' ' " ' ' '
if
V
'J
, f
r-.'v
I
! ?
l
t. :'
ASKS QUICK ACTION
ON DEfENSE-PLANS
Daily Record
of Congress
SECRETARY Of WAR GARRISON'S V ; PIC HA If DIIDCTC
CONTINENTAL PUN FACES flCHT r 1 V vm VV",
HiTY LOSE LIVES
President Wilson Urges People jjsS
f.i"
Changed conditions are menacing
Saturday, )an. 20. ((...: fl4'J '
BenaU Senator Sherman, Republl-
introduced a reaolutlon of protest
reportea renewed demanda by
on ibina.
Senator Tillman praised Secretary
Daniels In a speech on the navy and
attacked former Secretary ; Meyer.
Military committee continued work on
the army bill.
.House Military and naval commit
tees continued hearings. ,
Social workers - and labor leaders
Thirty-foot Water Wall Carries
Destruction Near Saa Diego. .
Cleveland Speech Unusually Grave k1 r region of the workmen'
and Warning of Nation's lm-
pending' Danger is Given. '
. 4 Cleveland, 0. New circumatancea
have arisen, President Wilson declared
Saturday, which make It absolutely
necessary that this country should pre
pare for adequate national defense -"We
are in the midst of world
that we did not make and cannot al
ter," the President said. ; "Jte whole
atmospheric and ' pbyalcal conditions
are the conditions of our own life, al
so; and therefore as your reeponsblle
servant I must tell you that the dan
gers are Infinite and constant. v
."I should feel that I were guilty of
an unpardonable omission . If , 1 did not
go out and tell my fellow countrymen
that new , circumstance ' hare arisen
which ' make it absolutely necessary
that this country prepa.ro herself for
war, not for, anything that lemacka In
the leaat of aggression but for ade
quate national defense." ; "
"Whenever .the ordinaryfrales of
commerce at sea and of International
relationship are apt to be throat aalde
or Ignored," be continued,', "there is
danger of .the more critical kind of
controversy.. ..-.-
"America la not afraid of anybody.
I know 1 reflect your feeling when I
aay that the only thing I am afraid of
la not being ready to perform my
duty.' I am afraid of the danger of
bame. 1 am afraid of the danger of
Inadequacy; I am afraid of the danger
of not being able to express the cor
rect character of this country with
tremendous might and effectiveness
whenever we are called upon to act in
the field of the world's affairs.
He was applauded frequently and
when he spoke of defending the na
tion's honor the cheering waa tremen
dous. "I do not wish to leave you with the
Impression that I am thinking of some
particlar danger. I merely wiah to
tell you that we are dally treading
amidst Intricate dangers. The dan
gers mat we are treading amoung are
not of our own making and not under
our control. I think no man in the
United States knows what a alngle
week, a single day,- a alngle hour may
bring forth" ' " v , ;;
The President spoke of the navy and
the coast defenses, savincr: ? i i
'Take for example
compensation law.
Friday, Jan. 28. j '
Senate Petitiona bearing a million
namea protesting against war muni
tions shipment presented, resulting in
vigorous debate. ;
: Debate on Philippine Independence
bill resumed. ' -, - f . . . ,
Military committee continued bear
ing pn army bllfa. v. ' " ' '
: House - Admiral Griffin, .chief of
navy engineering bureau, testified be
fore naval committee.
1 Gen. Wood told military committee
army should be ; recruited to 'full
strength before a reserve Is " enrolled.
Postal committee favorably reported
postofUce appropriation bill providing
that railroads be paid for mall trans
portation by space.' ' v i ; .
Thursday, Jan. 27.
Senate Public lands "committee re
ported water' power bill recognizing
Jurisdiction of both state and federal
governments over water power sites.
Poetofllce committee recommended
deposits of postal savings funds in
federal reserve banks.
Military and naval committees con
tinued bearings. , ,
House Military and naval commit
tees continued hearings. v ' -
Rivers and harbors committee heard
Repreeentalve Sumnera on Trinity
Kiver project. vv. j
Republican Leader Mann made
speech advocating prepared noes.
Representative Bennett, of New
xork defended German-Americans ' in
a speech.
Paaaed the Shackleford $26,000,000
good roads bill.
Wednesday,. Jan. 20.
Senate Foreign relatione committee
discussed Colombian, Nlcaraguan and
Haitian treaties. ....,
Senator Hitchcock proposed amend
ment to Philippine bill granting inde
pendence in from two to four years.
Debated child labor bill without final
action.
Military committee" continued hear
ings on army reorganization.
House Military and naval commit
teea heard witnesses on the state of
national defense. T - . ' ' v
Secretary Garrison urged the "h6use
Interstate' commerce committee to re
vise the general dam act in the , inter
est of water power development.' " J
Washington, D. C While; President
Wilson la carrying to. the country his
appeal for adequate national, defense,
one of the vital elements of the pro
gram he has recommended to congress
the continental army faces serious
opposition in both the senate and house
military committees.
Such an army, . described by Secre
tary Garrison .as embodying the most
attractive scheme that could be de
vised to give a final teat of the prob
lem of training an adequate number of
VmA Asaei I wstltis-if avanwai In evAai frfmka1
would be expected to provide 400,000 Area Two Miles Wide Devastated
men of the total . of approximately
1,000,000 which the entire plan la cal
vs.
culated to make available' '
Present indications are that the con
tinental proposal in some form will be
written Into the army increase bill be
ing prepared by the senate military
committee, although that measure will
Bodies Washed to Sea -r- Many
Marooned Without Food.
Sir david beatty:
ft' ' v1' !
j f.)
V" liw.wv.,! jiart frj&i j4a IW-" an'-Jf
iiatliliaiMiaaMal illlliiliiaHlii in .1 III .llqLUJC '
COW PER ACRE IN WILLAMETTE
. ..,.. VALLEY?
(AMumlnr that a cow will produce 300 pound
oi rat pr year, what art M nqaind In mi
ommunltv Wlllmtl uiknr to rrow bal.
aixwl ration for br7 fapar by M. S. Shrodc. ba
ron tat LHUrymon a AMoctatlon Conforma.
January t, ivio.i
Some yeara ago In the Willamette
valley there waa a good deal of talk
about a cow to the acre. Dairymen
and farm papers conceded that the
Willamette valley ought some day to
support a cow per acre. I am not go
ing to talk on the minimum acreage
fliuirc rmuirrn ifri haa a a a I required, because I do not think that
vAmAUL UimMW Al ll.VUOUU is the problem. I am going to talk
arxiut me most economical and con
venient acreage, because there is such
a thing as extravagance' in over-inten
sity. I believe it is policy for the av
erage dairy man in the Willamette
valley to buy aome of his concentrates.
I doubt if it is the beat method to' at
tempt to produce all of hie feed on this
farm. This will be true ai long as
the big farmers in stern Oregon are
content t to continue robbing their
farms of soil fertility and transferring
that value to us. I believe it la policy
on tee average i&rm to grow aome
cash crops along with the dairy prod
ucts.
By investigation we find that the
better herds in the Willamette valley
we got records last year from six
herds scattered around through four or
five counties, comprising one hundred
and thirty cows--the average feed was
4761 pounds of , hay, ..267 pounds of
silage, 65S4 pounds ..pf green feed (or
9200 pounds of succulent feed), 1365
pounds of grain, and on the average
they were pastured a .little lees than
four months,. ,The average, price waa
$3.60 per month. These cows pro
duced the average 307 pounds of fat
If they fed hay for eight months, it
would amount to twenty pounds per
day, and green feed for ten months
would still amount to thirty pounds per
day; grain feed, .five and two thirds
pounds. , Granting that the average
farm in the Willamette valley that
haa been fairly well kept will yield
two and one half tons to the acre, of
green feed twelve tone per acre, and
fifty bushels .of oata, or its equal in
weight in any other grain, from those
yields it requires nearly two acres, or
1.92 acres, to grow the feed per cow,
provided .one-third of the concentrates
are bought, aa I. believe on the aver
age they , are.. , II all the grain is
bought, it only requires 1.87 acres.
My idea of the average dairy farm
DEMANDS ON CHINA
RENRVED BY JAPAN
Aid in Resisting Enaoacnments
., off Nipponese Unlikely. : r
AMERICA STANDS ALONE ON QUESTION
were
8ir David Beatty has been promoted
to be a vice-admiral 'Ifl the 'British
navy. He la only' forty-five years old),
the youngest, man ever to, reeph .that
rank. Lady ,Batty. was , Ethel Field,
daughter of the late Marshall Field of
Chicago.- "v
San Diego, Cal. At least 60 persons
were believed to have been killed late
Thursday when the lower dam M - the
San Diego -water system in the Otay
valley, aoutb of here, broke under the
heavy pressure of the flood waters.' A
wan or water -su reet nttrb waa re
leased. ' ' 1
Sweeping down the valley the great
flood of water carried people, live
stock and valuable farm property to de
struction, d cores or residents are
missing. Houses on 25 ranches
swept away. , :.:- .
The first .news of the disaster
reached here late Saturday.
There had been no communication with
the district since the disaster occurred.
as wires were oown and roads were
Impassable.
At least zd Japanese men, women
and children were reported to be
among those lost '
An area 16 miles loner and two miles
Wide; ia devastated. -,,.
Rescuer were unable, to reach the
scene of the disaster, aa ' all bridgea
were washed out and the swollen
streams were eo treacherous 4hat it
was impoesiDie to launch boats to 0
to tne rescue.
Several bodies have been aeen float
ing in the flood waters, -according to
report received here. ...: ,
The coroner confirms etimateas that
place the loss of life in the flood at 60,
He said that many of the bodies had
been washed out to aea. .
The breaking of the dam released
11,000,000,000 gallons of water. , which
rushed down through the thickly popu
lated and narrow Otay valley.
The property loss will amount to at
least $1,000,000. Because of the fact
that they were isolated by the break'
i . . . . ...
ing oi tne a am, wnicn anut oil any
means or reaching other communities.
hundreds of families in the vicinity
are facing a food famine.
Complete Control of China by Japan'
Would Result Open Door to '
U. S. Would Be Closed. '
' Washington, D. C Awaiting con
firmation from official 'sources as' a
necessary preliminary to any action by
the United States, Stat department
officials were interested Thursday in a
report from London that the Japanese
government baa revived all of the de
mands on China included In the famous
group five" of the list of ' proposals
submitted to the Pekin .government
more than a year ago for a permanent
settlement of outstanding issues be
tween Japan and China. 1 ' ; s
There ia a conviction in official cir
cles here that any action at this time
likely to have results to warding off
the new. Japanese demanda moat be
taken by the United States practically
alone.'
With every evidence of sympathetic
interest by the European entente alliea
in the attitude of opposition which the
United States took when the proposals
in the "group five" originally were
submitted, it is believed none of these
powers will be inclined to take issue
with Japan at a moment when they
are leaning heavily on their Oriental
ally, not only for munitions of war.
but for military and naval "protection
of their interests in the Orient.
The close study that has been made
fn "Wahf nirton - at" ttermnmratV
oodied in "group five"
be devoted ' mainly to a complete re
organization of the regular army-on a
basis of approximately; 235,000 , men
with the colors increasing .Secretary
Garrison's proposals in that, respect by
nearly luu.uuu men. ,-.: .;,:. . t
Senator Chamberlain, chairman of
Louis D. Brandeis, Boston Lawyer.
Named for Supreme Court Bench
has onlv con
firmed officials In their original belief
that if accepted' in full by China, with-:
in the Willamette valley would not. beLut 'Jert'rom otherv n?n.
to try to keep as many cowa aa poasi- STLi TP v 7 i-T iT i
tion of China by Japan.
Japanese advisers for the Chinese
government with resulting exclusion
of all other foreign advisers from
Pekin, itia felt,' would place China'
completely under the political control
of Japan.
While not prepared to make an issue
oh that point, however, the State de
partment is convinced the other pro
visions of "group five" finally would
close to American commerce and en-
LUSitania USe liraOted Dy DCTIIO the senate military, eommittee, said M
the er am a
aajv. uiebvv v i a a. a a
our coast defenses. It Is obvious to lAmeflCan Vmim 00 derma II V Id
. M- ,L., .1 ,L . A I
wtvij uian hibi. vuoy mrw u amn
vital Importance to the country. Such
coast defenses aa we have are strong
and admirable, but we have not got
coast defenses In enough places. Their
quality is admirable but their qunatity
ia insufficient.
"And the navy of the United States!
You have been told that it is the sec
ond in strength in the world. . I am
sorry to say that experts do not agree
witn those who tell you that Reck
oning by ita actual strength I believe
It to be one of the most efficient navies
in the world; but its strenght ranka
fourth, not second. You must reckon
with the fact that It is necessary that
that should be our first arm of defense.
no yuu ougni to insist mat everything excellent authority that Germany final- "it nats., ,wjui the; pelts , went Mr. freight rates before the Interstate
bllUlptt B .eaa measurement.' Ihe I commerce mmminainn. and rlnrino-the
manufacturer has written Mr, . Sinnott J same period he waa at the forefront of
acKnowieaging tne jura,., saying ney. those Who were demanding an investi
will De thoroughly tested and promls-. gation of the : financial affairs of the
mg mm toe nrst nat made irom -then. New Haven railroads.
Washington, D. . C Germany haa
submitted to the United States,
through Ambassador Von Bernetorff,
another written proposal designed to
bring about a settlement of the " con
troversy over the sinking of the steam
ship Lusitanla, with a losa ' of
than 100 American lives.
more
Washington, D. C President Wil
son-Saturday sent to the senate the
nomination of Louis D. Brandeia, law
yer, or Boston, .to be associate justice
nf t Vta Snnram. .wriv In .ii.M.nlnn ,a
waa confident his committee -would" tK tu,: nn,
de'f,y tion-was a complete surprise in official
rounded bill prtvld nrf for, all . the ciTCle4,., Mr. Brandeia' name had not
menu of a national imVWW , mentionod nublidv in connection
or more men. .. v tJLhr:Mbtth th-
-. : y -'f kULI !l X '1 M. Rranrlaia ti-a haan In fha nnKU
Washington, D. C; Within' mortth eve for aome vnara an nrnlifli- BTritnr-
Representatlve Sinnott, of .OWgori, iyt- on economic topics and for his connec
pecta to be .weajring a: . fine Velt, tlon with labor and trust . legislation,
made largely from the: fuxrortSron He attained some prominence six
. i$t,.:3A vtut'un as attorney for the interests
2.-1 V. i : .
IMI'HrNIIIII I M -
. . . '
i nrougn , representative . amonas .which aought the removal from office
There were indications here that
tne document might bring a aatlsfae- tne consignment oi urgon,.j&ckrabDjt l0f Secretary Ballinger in the noted
Pinchot Ballinger controversy. He
tory termination of negotiations.
Although the greatest secrecy but-
pelts received by"
been ' turned over
Mr. Sinnott have
to . Philadelphia
waa conusel later on for- the shippers
KffifeWa 7Vth -ble to increase your yields a the
ble per acre, but to get a fairly -good-
sized herd and grow aome cash crops.
Take an eighty-bere farm and divide it
into four divisions. .i One will grow
the hay for twenty cows, end probably
a- bull -and a few head of calves or
heifers one division of twenty acres.
Another twenty-acre division in .. m
second crop of clover will furnish pas
ture for most of the summer; Another
twenty acres will grow the green, feed,
and silage, and vegetables for the f am-
fin A ft si aiv . i n Aaa 4 nAtafAAa
jl eaiju dia va. ciKut tvwiva vi uvwaves , . ,
for market if the dairy farm is eo jM4VBnm w opgn QOOr ln nina-
uated that' he can. market potatoes
successfully.- If you are too far from
the market to ship potatoes, that -ad
ditional acreage can be put to corn.
It is well to put it to aome. cultivated
crop for the sake of the. . rotation.
Grow corft end feed it to the hogs,
which go well with cowa. Another
division can be put to grain, and will
supply grain to the 'herd and for the
horses on the farm and six or eight
acres for market. v
starting witn one cow for every
four acres, in the course of four or
five years there will be no trouble at
all m increasing the yield to twice
these' amounts keeping a cow for every
two acres, and still produce a cash
crop besides. ' We have asked the
dairy men this question : In your
timatioft, ho w-much have you .been
General Disapproves Government ' -!
' Manufacture of War Munitions
ahould be done that it Is possible for
us to do to bring the navy up to an
adequate standard of strength and effi
ciency. it f
ff'Wbere,, we are. lacking more per
haps is on land and In the number of
men who are ready to fight. The
characteristic desire of America ia not
that she should have a great body of
men whose chief buoiness ia to fight,
but a great body of men who know
how to fight and are ready to fight
when anything that la dear to the na
tion is threatened. You might' have
what we have, millions of men who
have- never handled 'arms of war, who
are mere material for shot and powder
if you put them in th field, and Amer
ica would fie aahemed of the ineffi
ciency of calling s'Bch men to defend
the Nation."' . , .
ly had argeed , to eliminate from the
text of the agreement. any mention of
the warning. Issued by the German
embassy the day the Lusitanla sailed
on her last trip from New York.
Mention of this warning is understod
to have been contained in the last pro
posal, which waa rejected after Pres
ident Wilson had considered it - - -
It Is understood also that Germany
had left out of her proposal general
reservation of admission of wrong
doing on the part of the submarine
commander, to which United States
objected.
Mention of the warning ia believed
to have been moat objectionable to the
administration. In effect, it waa re
garded as conveynlg the idea that
Drunkard List Stirs' City. ' '
Gateway, Or. Consternation ' has
been caused among several citizens of
this place by the appearance of their
names on "Habitual Drunkard" lists
that have been given the - railway
agents In Jefferson county by the
prosecuting attorney. .
Great dissatisfaction, too,' has been
expressed by many of the persons af
fected, who contend that it ia a ques
tion as to what coniititutea an habtuial
drunkard.
American lives would have been lost
had the warning been heeded.
. ' i i - . ' . i
Officials Like Torpedo..
Washington", D. C. Adoption of the
aerial-controlled torpedo' invented by
John Hays Hammond, Jr., waa urged
Wednesday by Secretary Garrison, Ma
jor General Scott and Brigadier Gen
eral Weaver at an executive session of
the house fortifications sub-committee.
Mr. Hammond also waa present and
explained the workings of the torpedo.
The War department estimates contain
a proposed appropriation of $945,000
for putting the torpedo into use.
Washington, D. C Representative
McCracken, of Idaho, has introducted
a bill providing for the appointment of
a board of engineers, three from the
army, one from the Reclamation serv
ice and one from civil life, to make a
survey and plan with regard to cost of
canalizing the Columbia river above
Celilo to the mouth, of the Snake river,
of Snake liver irom' its mouth to
Pittsburg landing, and of the Clear
water river from ita mouth to Orofino,
no The bill appropriate! $50,000 to: meet
expenses and fixes the salaries -of
members of the board at $6000 a year,
British Steamer Foundera at Sea. -
' 'New Totk X The? British' steamer
Chase Hill, which sailed from New
York for Havre on January 14, foun
dered at tea, according to officers of
the steamer Indralema, which arrived
here Friday. The captain of the . In
dralema said that on January 22 he
sighted the. Spanish steamer Mary
Adriatico, .which signalled that she
had on board the shipwrecked crew of
the Chase Hill. No details were given
concerning the losa of the vessel. '
Mr. Brandeis represented the Ore
gon. Industrial Welfare " Commission
last year In the' case of O'Bara vs.
Stettler, in the United States Supreme
court, giving the . oral argument and
preparing one of the briefs. . The case
ia still pending in the court, Several
yeara ago Judge Brandeia appeared be
fore the Supreme court in - the same
capacity in the interest of the Oregon
10-hour law. In this case he appeared
aa counsel for Illinois and Ohio as
well. He was, in 1910, chairman of
the board of arbitration which settled
the : New York garment workers'
atrike. , . .
'.. Jitanlc Claims 'Settled.
') New York Attorneys for the White
Star line announced Saturday - that
agreementa had been reached with
more than 200 claimants whereby
about $600,000 will be paid . ln claims
arising out Of the Titanic disaster.' The
largest amount to be paid as -a death
claim will be $50,000, which probably
will be received by Mrs. Irene W.
Harris, widow of Henry B. Harris,
the theatrical producer. Mrs. Harris'
claim waa originally for $1,000,000.
suit of the - growing of leguminous
crops and the application of - manure?
Out of the six who were asked this
question, two said they had increased
their yields fifty per cent, two said
they had increased their yields of hay
and grain fifty per cent, -and increased
their yield of green feed one hundred
per cent, and - one - had increased his
yields two hundred per. cent, and an
other four hundred per cent. - It . is a
fact there is no . place where the soil,
responds to the use of manure aa it
does in the Willamette valley, no place
where so much depends on the man.
Averaging up increases, these six .rec
ords would be an increase of one hun
dred and forty per cent, so I feel the
dairy men in the Willamette valley are
able to do what these six have done.
That fully agrees with my other state
ment that the yield can - be doubled.
I believe it is policy to try to runs
dairy to a little more full capacity
than we have been doing in the . past.
A great many men in the Willamette
valley are keeping six or seven cows
When they ought to keep twenty. It
takes almost as much time and equip
ment for six or seven as it does for
twenty. You have to have the equip
ment, do so much looking after the
cows, haul the cream to market. But
I also believe there is extravagance in
over-intensity, as when a man tries to
keep a cow per acre. j . i
Washington, D. C. Estimates were
given the senate military committee
Thursday by Brigadier General ' Cros
ier, chief of ordnance, showing that
a plant costing $400,000,000, operated
by a force of 750,000 workmen, would
be required to manufacture ammuni
tion and t war materials necessary to
keep an army of a million men in the
field and equip an additional million ,
recruits.
General Crozier strongly " diBap- '
proved any proposal for government .
monopoly of war supplies, insisting
that best results could be accomplished
by relying on private establishments
to' supplement the output of govern
ment plants in time, of war. , .
The committee received from Secre-'
tary Garrison a draft of ; a tentative -'
measure suggested by Senator Cham- t
berlain, chairman of the committee," '
which would provide for the authorise- .
tion for the proposed continental army
in general terms only, leaving the de
tails of .the proposed system to be .
worked out by War department regu
lations. The original draft of a bill
submitted by the War department con
tained an outline of the entire system.
Mr. Garrison pointed out to .the con
gressional committee, when he appear
ed before it, however, that aa the plan
largely was an experimental one, it
would be wise to give the President
wide discretionary powers to meet
problems which could be solved in the
light of experience yet to be gained.
Peace Is .Offeree! Serbia.
London Germany ia continuing, her
efforts to conclude a separate peace
with Serbia, according to the Ahtens
correspondent of the Daily Mail. ,
The correspondent says that Ger
many has offered to extend the Serbian :
boundaries in the direction of Bosnia
and Herzegotina, and re-establish the
kingdom under Austro-German suzer
sinty, with Prince Eitel Freidrich,
Emperor William's seeepd son, on the
throne.
I
f f
i i
I.
i i
s 9
t. .
