i
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
? 2
a
CIRCULATION IS
OYER 4000 DAILY
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
ON TRAINS AND NEW
STANDS FIVE CENTS
1 1 rt
rvhi la t ei a u r v '1:1 rv -ir t r it n -- t t w i p i 1 i t j i 4 kj ft i -1 i i i it a is
All Concerned Seem To Agree On This Point, But Wb
Prize Is She? Claimed By Germany and Great Bri
1 Secretary Lansing Inclined to Withhold Decision r
1 Time In Order to Make Sure Legality of His Positi -
Passengers Land at Norfolk Today and Are Happy uter
' Termination of Dangerous Cruise
Puzzle Who Gets
Washington, Feb. 3, "She's our prize" Ger
man Ambassador Von Bernstorff.
"She is ours." British Ambassador Sir Cecil
Spring-Rice.
"She should be regarded as a prize not as an
auxiliary naval vessel." the government neu-
trality board.
"She probably is a prize, but whose, remains to
be seen.'' Secretary of State Lansing.
"Look at the Prussian-American treaty." (pro-
viding Germany and America may land prizes at
ports of each nation) Von Bernstorff.
"Look at The Hague convention of 1907." (pro-
viding return of a prize to its owners, if it does
not put out to sea at once after heading into a
neutral port) Sir Cecil Spring-Rice.
. "You never ratified it." Von Bernstorff.
"We will hold her a while and see." Lansing.
$$$!::!::$:$$:((
Washington, Feb. ?. The German captive ship Ap
pam is a prize of war in the official view of the United
States, Secretary of State Lansing announced today.
Meantime, British Ambasador Sir Cecil Spring-Rice
prepared a strong protest, demanding that this govern
ment observe The Hague convention of 1907 in determ
ing the status of the Appam. This convention requires
that a belligerent must surrender a prize ship to the
original owners, if, upon bringing her into a neutral port,
the captor is unable to put to sea again with her or to
take her to a home port.
State department officials, however, said they see no
alternative other than to observe the Prussian-American
treaty, permitting docking of prizes in America or Ger
many mutually, inasmuch as both England and America
never finally ratified the convention provisions.
Interment of the prize crew apparently is required,
but it is more doubtful about the German citizens whom
the prize crew found aboard.
The British embassy has demanded release of the Ap
pam crew, and it is expected the state department will
acquiesce therein, though Lieutenant Berg contends that
because of their resistance,
ment. The disposition of
has not been decided.
Newport Xews, Va., Teb. 3. l-ike a
l:intom ship, covered with ice and!
sleet, the German captive vessel Ap-
.pa m moved in from the Itoids today to
ilii-U'orjje her lun.l of passengers and
prisoners. j
SAI of these were permitted to' setj
f'oot on American soil after days of ;
iiilventiire, with the exception of the
crew, 12 Hritish military men "0 Ger
rmins. whn were on tier when siie waq
Z Abs Oartia
g 1
'
i
Merit nllu wins unless you re
ruiinin' fer office. Next t' hen's teeth
ther hain't nothin' as scarce as corsets
i:i a gypsy, ramp.
PRIZE OF
the Appam?
::$$
they are subject to intern
British military men aboard
captured and t'le German prize crew
that seized the ship in a raid off the
Cinaries.
As she puffed into port most of her
passengers lined the rails, cheering the
prospect of landing after tho perils of
remnt days. The big liner nnchonl on-
ly a snort distance from the spot where
tlie iierman commerce raiders Kron
I'rinz Wilhelm and Prinz Kite Fried
rich were first interned. As her gang
planks were dropped, iie passengers
scurried nsnore and hurried to catch
waiting trains for New York and
Norfolk where Uritisli authorities are
prepared to send them to England.
licfore leaving the ship, the passen-
',T,n t.,; n,,n,i iioiono Ti !
nn f a it-iiiM-ii men iniiunn iu me iiui
and his crew for the eourtesv they had,
extended after making the ujring cap
ture on the high seas.
Meanwhile the identity of tne ship
that seized the Appam is a puzzle. The
Germans aboard insist- that it was the
Moewe, a naval survey ship, while the
Itritiwh subjects insist it was the Pon
ga. Captain Harrison, Appam com
mander before seizure, maintains that
the vessel was larger than the Moewe.
Adding to the mystery is the fact that
the members of the prize crew wear
different hat bands, some of them with!
Moewe." limited thereon; some Of
them with "Taubi.
Raider May Be Loose.
In some quarters, it is still held that
perhaps the daring cruiser Karlsruhe is
again loose on the seas, in her career ori
,,,'7or .. , ,
Among the rumors spread by passen-,
'r.! " rt0:!0.: ',"' '.h.a !
I III- f.'.MM, lull it-riimu I runiT inriill iiuii
aided the raider thjt baased the Ati'
l,i An
. I'r.,,1,,;,. Tln..n,, . I, 1 thai
Ti.it.'.u . wi.i.. ..w.t
,h i,i. w if .,...
firmed, 'lie believes that other Ger- Th "IM'ech w" "'n','?, U,-Ml
man ships were near when the Appiml"'"' 'he president and his party left.
(C'oBtio4 Page Tore.)
ON PUBLIC VIEW: BODIES OF VILLA LEADERS
1 - r?'
AC t it, 'i J
t
1 xxV
Todies of Mexicans who killed Americans on public exhibition at Juarez, Mexico.
Mexican justice is short ami swift. Almost before thq bodies of their seventeen American victims had grown cold,
the Villa leaders who were chiefly responsible, for the cold blooded murder in Santa Ysnbcl, Mexico, had been cap
tured and executed and their bodi s placed on exhibition in the public souare. The photo shows the "finish" of
General Rodriquez and Colonel Valles, prominent Villa leaders implicated in the wholesale murder.
TREMENDOUS CROWDS
GREET PRESIDENT AT
STLOUISEARL Y TODA Y
St. I.ouis, Mo., Feb. .!. In a stirtiiiR
address to thousands at the Coliseum
hero today, President Wilson declared
he intends tho administration record
shall be one of "genuine, not pretend
ed neutrality."
At this announcement, the immense
audience, partly composed of those of
German descent, made the big hall
ring.
"I am ready," he said, "to make al
lowances on both sides. I have tried to
think as far as possible from the view
point of the other side, for I know
how my own heart would burn and
my head whirl if I saw my country in
danger."
Speaking of the American navy, he
said that to protect adequately our
coasts, "I think it should be the great
est in the world. It should be uncon
querable." "There is not a better navy than
ours," he explained, "but it must have
ships enough, and we are going to give
them enough.
"It would tear tho heartstrings of
Americans to be at war with any other
nation. Yet, if great issues were in
volved, however, and we had to defend
ourselves, we would not be at peace.
But no man can lead America where
America does not desire to bo led.
and none need preach peace among us,
for we are disciples of peace already. I
"The danger to America, however, is
not within but without. That danger is
constant and immediate, and it comes
with every turn of events. For in
stance, the commander of a submarine.
choosing his own interpretation of in
ternational law, might commit an act
which would set the world afire.
" Kvery nation will enjoy our respect
of their rights, as long as they respect
ours. America is not selfish in claim
ing her rights; she is merely standing
for the rights of mankind while the
life of mankind is being extinguished
in one of the greatest eatastrophies ol
the world. America desires nothing but
a free field and no favor .and the min
ute we desire something that wo ought
not to. we will get into trouble and we
should."
The president closed with a powerful
appeal for all to unite in preparing the
country so that preservation of its hou-
or may be expected, and its full trade
rights demanded and enjoyed.
"There is no politics in national de-l
fense," he said. "Plans now before
congress make provisions for that
Am-
uc i"r"" nny.
Those plans will bo adopted. I know
that you will come if I call you, but
will you know what you ftro doing, or
how to do it T (Shouts of 'no, no'),
Either we must sit still now or pre -
pare so mat tne men oi tins country
can take care ot their own govern
ment." Hobo Opposes Preparedness.
In the gallery weTe some of the "un-
employed" followers of the millionaire
hobo" James Fades Howe, and Howe
himself was on the floor with a resolu-
tinn to the president, nrotestinir ntminst
preparedness. Previously, he had sent
copies hy special delivery and teln
eram to Wilson while he was en route
(,f,rP
w'hpn tlie prPsitl0nt and his wife ent-
ered the Coliseum shortly before 11
, wk fc wpre w,,,,om'0(, bv ehcfn
for t ully two minutes. As the din sub-
. . . . rin 1 1 l,'ll U
I'H'I, IH'I'U k.iiuui l.lllluivil uui.iv
into
I the strains of
the "Star Spangled
Dannie."
I Woman Crank Arrested.
lllim.'i hi I ci , lur iiir ninii'ju iu ijuiiiu inr
special for Washington at noon. At the
Si 4 6
fc'Vpot, A small ,dark haired woman
ruslied to the president a side and
thrust two letters into his hand. Detec
tives seized her and took her to jiolicc
headquarters, where she was searched,
but no weapons TVerc found. The let
ters proved to be exttortations to the
president to assist in simplifying relig
ious doctrines.
Earlier Events of the Day.
St. l.ouis, Mo., Feb. 3. On the last
leg of his "'swing around the circle"
in behalf of national preparedness,
President Vilsou reached here at 8:04
a. m. today.
The national salute of 21 guns roared
out from the Eighteenth street via
duct as the special pulled into the city,
and Wilson was greeted by a commit
tee from the Business Men's I.engue,
including Governor Major and ex-Governor
Uavid R. Francis.
The president and bis wife, in an
open automobile weiu escorted to the
Hotel Jefferson by mounted police and
Battery A ot tho state militia, while
secret service men and local detec
tives rode ahead and behind. The streets
were not crowded apparently due to
bitter cold weather, but factory win
dows were jammed en route with men
and women workers, who waved a hear
ty welcome.
Tho president at 9 o'clock reached
the dining room where a preliminary
address to the Business Men's league
occurred.
Enthusiasm Is Great,
The greeting accorded him through
out the middle west, curminating in the
grentest enthusiasm thus far when he
spoke at Kansas City last night, has
convinced him that the nation, far from
being indifferent to prcjiarcdness; is
behind him in his plans.
A thousand persons met him at the
train at Kansas City; 20,000 packed
the streets en route to his hotel; fiOO
jammed the hotel loony while 25,000
were about the placo while ho took
dinner. Eighteen thousand filled the
Auditorium to capacity for his address
while police had to fight to keep clamor-'
ing others from breaking thcif way in-
to tho building,
The crowd which heard tho executive
last night at Kansas City arose to
heights of patriotism not yet reached
on the journey,
"America" sounded out in a mighty
chorus and cheers greeted the ad-
dresH.
I "I have come to ask you to utand
back of me in this task of preserving
at once tho peace and honor of this
country," he declared, at the same time
j expressing the view that 600,000 for a
1 continental army could be raised in any
one state
Tn the course of his remarks, he
voiced the idea that the "mere word
of the government" may not alwaye
prevail to maintain the nation's honor.
For this reason, he counselled prepara
tion. He pointed out the need for
strengthening the coast lines, and for
having sufficient men with whom to
guard the borders in esse of need.
Sneaks to Businessmen.
White the pmblent made his short
preliminary speech to the business men.
crowds stormed the Coliseum wherfl he
jwns scheduled to tniK at mini), i.on-r
before that hour, however, every seal
was tiken .and the doors were clned.
While awaiting th president 's nr
rial. Inch school children entertained
be throne with patriotJn sones. y'
the Nationnl flccnritT League of H
T.ouis distributed preparedness pamph
lets, which said;
(Continued en Paae Six )
WHO SLEW U. S. MEN
.'V I
, s if-
1
L
BE
FOR 110 TERM
Formal Announcement To
That Effect Made Through
the Press Today
Sheriff William Each stated today
that ho would not bo a candidate for
re-election to the office which he has
hold for the last two terms and in
which ho has made an enviable record.
This definite announcement from Sher
iff Esch. sets at rest considerable spec
ulation that has been running rife durr
ing the last few months. Sheriff Esch
has made a host of friends during his
incumbency and at last election was
practically unanimous.
"There has been some speculation,"
said Shentr hsch, "amongst the people
of tnis county as to my candidacy for
a third term for the office of sheriff
of M.uion county. In order to set niado
tins speculation and to quiet rumors
afloat, I am making this statement. I
made statements that I would also step
out tne same as my two predecessors.
W. J. Culver and Harry P. Minto. both
of whom wero as good sheriffs is this
county ever iiad and both of whom
could have been re-elected a third term,
but retired at the end of their second
terms. I see no reason why I should
break the ruin of two terms which
seems to be the custom, at least in
this county, as to county officers.
"I want to thank the people and
voters of this county both for their
support during my two campaigns jnd
while I was filling tho office of coun
ty sheriff in the second largest county
in the state of Oregon.
"In the past three months my
friends have been trying to persuade
me to run for the office a third time
and after careful consideration I feel
that I must decline. I feel more than
proud to know of the numerous friends
I have ind want to thank them all for
their interest in me."
Recovery of Prices
In Wall Street Today
(Copyrighted 1016 by the New York
Evening Post.)
New York, Feb. 3. Recovery of pric
es on the stock exchange today con
tinned, with tho most noteworthy ad
vances in industrial! issues which late
ly had been hammered. Hallway!
stocks were relatively Inactivo and!
their prices were not changed material
ly. Foreign exchange was unaltered
except for a rather sharp movement
agiinst Paris.
Fractional overnight gains, which
later became substantial in some cases,
were common. The opening advance in
Studebaker was 1 1-4, while steel drew
attention on unintelligible reports that
the corporation hid booked "a large
war order." Crucible steel . gained
nearly three points. Among the rail
way issues, Hock Island was strong on
favorable reports of earnings.
3. P. Morgan s departure for Europe
was bound to arouse conjecture as to
the bearings of the trip, on munition
orders or further New York credits tor
the allies.
AEROPLANE OVER DUP0NT3
Wilmington, Del., Feb. 3. Kmployes
of the Dupont Powder company today
reported a r.ircumatantiul story that ao
"aeroplane" had been heard Monday
niaht over tho works at Carney's
Point. The captain of the private
guards claimed, indeed, to havo seen
the aircraft.
BEGIN NEW CAMPAIGN
IN AIR AND UNDERSEA
Capture of German Liner Appam Zeppelin Raids Against
' Capitals of England and France Are Evidence of Re
newed Aggressiveness Zeppelin Campaign Has For
Objective Attempt to Compel English to Give Up Plan
of Starving Germany-OScials Believe They Will Be
Able to Terrorize Their Enemies Into Concessions
-1
By Carl W. Ackerman
(United Press Staff Correspondent.) -
Berlin, Feb. 3. German capture of the British Afri
can liner Appam, Zeppelin raids against England and
Paris, and renewed activity of German undersea boats
mark the prelude of an aggressive new campaign in the
air and sea. Experts suggested today that feats more
startling even than the events of the past few days may
be on the books.
The audacity of the Appam capture has roused Ger
many to a high pitch of enthusiasm, while the prize crew
that guided the vessel into Norfolk are hailed on every
hand as heroes. Reports of the Appam case were more
prominently displayed in the newspapers than anything
except the successful Zeppelin attacks against English
cities and Paris. .
Plans for further prosecution of the Zeppelin raids
call for attacking everything of military or food value
in England as long as the British policy of starving Ger
many continues. At the same time, authorities have
mapped a strong submarine campaign, and they declare
that it will be impossible to consent to any new regula
tions for submarine warfare while the starvation block
ade persists.. ...... . , . . ,
In connection with the aenal program, it was pointed
out that the Monday night attack on big English cities
had accomplished one of its main objects, namely destruc
tion of grain elevators in Liverpool. .
Meantime, officials in charge of the new air and sea
moves are confident that they can strike such terror to
the heart of England and create such ruin as to cause a
relaxation of the English hunger warfare.
GERMANS WILL ATTACK
Amsterdam, Feb. 3. Travel
ers, reaching hero today report
ed the Germans preparing for
a great offensive on tho west
ern front, estimated that 3,000
new guns have been sent to
northern Franco.
Washington, Feb. 3. Geran Ambas
sador Von lternstorff was informed by
a Iterlin cable today that a memoran
dum concerning tho Etisitania case is
en route. Ho expects it hero Friday
or Hatur.lay and will then communicate
its contents to the state department.
Tho memorandum is undoubtedly
that to which Herlin semi-officially re
ferred yesterday iu announcing that
new proposals toward a positive under
standing hud been sent to Von Bern
storff. Have Sunk Many Bhips.
Xew York, Feb. X German subma
rines havo sunk fix allied ships of a
tonnage of 215,000, in the Mediterran
ean since the Ilulkan campaign started,
according to Herlin newspapers which
arrived here today. Tho largest victim
was the 11,000 ton Cunnrd Transport
Transylvania.
FREE
AFTER JANSOM PAID
Crew of Torpedoed Vessel
Fell Into Hands of Moroc
can Bandits On Shore
London, Feb. 3. Survivors of a ter
rible battle with submarine boarders
on the Hritish vessel Woodflold are
free todav under ransom after falling
into tho hands of Moroccan bandits,
and the escape of some of tho party
forms a story like a chapter iroin a
Htnvenfcnn ifllfl.
A submarine halted tho vessel off the
Moroccan coast. Members of tho crew tho ocean the remaining lines nava
boarded tho vessel, only to be met with been overburdened with great massea
Ltnivnu mid nistols. For three hours.!nf ntiimunii'&tioiis duilv.
th Teutons and Hritish fought a due!
on tho decks, until these ran with blood
and wfcurr tbe ed -caiiiey eiiihl-oi ti
Woodfield crow were dead and 14 wer
wounded. Survivors wero put into life
boats and landed in Morocco only to
fall into the hands ot the tribesman
of that land. These demanded a ran
rinanciers Reassured.
Zurich, "Feb. 8. German financiers
have been assured by their government
that German-American controversies
are about to be settled, said Frankfort
dispatches today. As a result, it was
said, prices on the German bourse ral-ried.
Crew of Ship Saved.
London, Feb. 3 The crew of the
4000-ton Hritish steamer Chase Hill,
New York lor Havre January 13, was
saved when the ship foundered, accord
ing to advices to tho ownora today.
Nineteen Lascar members of the 3200
ton Hritish steamor Itellc of France ar
missing since that vessel sank, thougtx
23 others wcro landed safely.
Germans Attack French.
Paris. Feb. 3. German forces
har
resumed heavy attacks on the western
battle line, the war office revealed to
day, but claimed these were summarily
repulsed north of the Aisne. The of
ficial statement tended to confirm re
ports that the Ocrman3 had brought
up reserves preparatory to starting
fresh offensive as they did a week ago.
Zeppelin Sinks In Sea,
London, Feb. 3. A Zeppelin, be
lieved to bo one of tho raiders engaged
against Knglnnd Monday night wa
sighted, sinking in the North sea, by a
trawler, said the war office today.
MOTOOSLYCUI
All Communication With Eu
rope and This Country
May Be Severed
(By Wilbur S. Forrest.) . '
(United Press t'taff Correspondent.)
London, Feb. 3. Kurope and Ameri
ca today face the danger of being cut
off from cable communicatioa with
each other.
Bevcn cables, linking the two con
tinents, have been put out of business
mviteriouxlv. it is learned. And, while
I they have lain useless at the bottom of
The possibility ot fcurope losing
eablea tu America is not remote, f at, it,
w ninroTeit -Ifcftt-- a new bmariit
eqnlppwt for cable- cutting may b
working off thn west const of Europe.
som, which was at Inst raid by the com
pany owning taa WoodXicld. ..,
