11 i rJ-f
Stttt.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Pair to-day and to-morrow; west and
southwest winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 83; lowest, 64.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on pa.ie IS
IT SHINES FOP ALL
VOL. LXXXI1I. NO. 306.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, JULY 2, 1916. Copyright, 1016. hy the Sun Prlnllnfl and Publishing Aitoctatton.
54 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
NEXT MOVE IN
MEXICO WAITS
ON CARRANZA
Xo Reply Yet to Demand
That Ho Explain Fu
ture Course.
TB00P MOVEMENT
TO BORDER GOES ON
Aguilnr's Statement Taken
as Food for "Home
Consumption."
Washington, July 1. With the ex
ception of tho steady moving ma
chinery of militia mobilization for ser
vice on the border, developments In
tho Mexican situation havo been
brought to a standstill by reason of the
fact that nothing official haa been
heard yet from Carranza.
Ho has not replied formally to the
note of last week, which, tn demanding
the release of tho American troopers
captured In the Carrlzal fight, also
asked for nn explicit staUmcnt of his
future course of action. Nor has he
cnt a rejoinder to the American reply
to his demand for a withdrawal of
the American expedition.
President Wilson returned thiB
morning from his trip to New York to
find the situation practically un
changed, except for tho receipt of a
brief despatch from Special Agent
nodgers nt Mexico city continuing
press reports concerning the statement
Issued yesterday by the Mexican For
rlgn Ofllce.
Apparently convinced that nothing
was likely to develop to-night, the
President spent the evening with Mrs.
Wilson nt the theatre.
The House, after pausing tlv Hay
resolution appropriating 32.OOU.uuO for
th relief of dependent wives, children
nd mothers of mllUlnniun called tn
the front, adjourned over the Fourth
f July until next Wednesday.
Tn Please Home folk.
Officials "f the Administration after
examining the text of the Foreign Office
tatement lsued m Melco city pre
ferred to view It In tho light ol .1 docu
ment Intended for "home consumption."
The fact that the statement I extremely
truculent In tune I not regarded as par
ticular serious In view of the fart that
It make's, no additional threats and closes
with 'chat might be Interpreted as an
Invitation to dl-cus anew proposals for
an agieement under which the American
fo-ees might operate in Mexico.
At the Mexican Kmbanty to-night It
wis -taled that no fresh advices had
.e lecelvcd concerning the next Mep
if ' I'arriinzn ("nn eminent. For the
ftvt t. tie In several days Mr. Arredondo
ail i.i new .oinplnluts to flic, with the
S'af le.,irtiiient regarding alleged out
r.c.t perpetrated by American soldiers
a .i.t . Illans against Mexicans along the
bo b;.
T i other I.atln American diplomats
j. mulling w"h keun lhteiet tho
fi ' il'Mjiuptueiit, In some of thes
c.j.o . i the suggestion was indorsed
. i (Sen, r.-irranr.a mav take ndvan
ijire of President Wilson's Mexican
eff'-ences In New York last night to
Hl'in i more stuhhoru nttltude
M ndful of Secretary Lansing's previ-tj-
unwillingness io discuss any media
t on "(Terr, the Latin American repre
sent 'ives are hiding tlieir time. lntend-
e io renew their offers only In the
fwnt that the situation gets to a point
nhere hostilities appear Imminent.
Tin re Is a disposition to believe, how
ever, that In view of the President's
New Vork speech Mr. Wilson Is prepared
to adopt an even more lenient attituda
in his efforts to avoid a clash.
The tmrrlrnn Mile,
The War Pepartment received to
right the following report from Oen.
Btll at Ul Paso regarding the complaint
ef the Mexican Government that Ameri
can troopers at Ysletta, Tex., had killed
a Mexican customs Inspector:
Fergt. J. K. Fair, Troop G. Eighth
Cavalry, while on outpost duty at 6 :45
Continued on foi.rfn ragr.
THE CONTROLOF
To the Readers of The Sun:
The control of The Sun and The Evening Sun has
passed into my hands through my Purchase from Mr.
William C. Roick of his interest n these ProP?.18- Sun
Coincident with the closing ot this transaction, The bun
bought The New York Press from me for the Pumwe ot
combining the two papers. The amalgamation will take
place with Monday's issue of The Sun Monday, .July 8
when The Fteus will be merged with it. The name of the
amalgamated paper will be The Sun. It will, course,
be necessary to carry the name of The Press in a conspic
uous place for a brief time. . . Th .
The tremendous advantage ot this merger to The Sun
can be appreciated only by newspaper men. Through it
The Sun secures a morning franchise in the Associated
Press, and there is no other possible way to secure such a
franchise except through the purchase of a newspaper
Through a mix-up that occurred some years ago, when
the Associated Press was reorganized, The Sun did not
wwociate itself with all the other morning papers of the
town in the reorganization. As a consequence, ever since
then it has been compelled to gather its news alone and at
THE PRICE OF THE MORNING SUN WILL BE ONE CENT BEGINNING
"DRIVING AMERICANS NORTH."
When Pershing; quit Mimlqulpa
I'oatrra Announce Ureal Victory.
Columbus, N. M July 1. Clone on
Hie heels of Namlqulpa's evacuation by
Hie American punlUve expedition J.500
Carramdsta cavalry iccupled the town.
rosters Immediately appeared stating
that the United States troops were being
driven north by the do facto Oovern-
inent forces.
Refugees tho brought their reports
north to the American lines to-day said
they fled from Namlqulpa. fearing harm
at the hands of the Carranilstas for hav
ing been friendly to the Americans dur
Ing their occupation of the territory.
Members of the Namlqulpa home
guard, who aided Oon. Pershing's men
In unearthing caches of Vllllsta arms,
were among those, who sought protec
tion In the American lines.
AMERICAN REFUGEES
RUSH TO VERA CRUZ
700 Arc Tut. Aboard the Sunv
nor Mnny Arrive nt
Havniin.
tt.iat Cable Pfpatchti to Tns So.
Vr.nA Cruz, July 1. All refugees were
transferred to the transport Sumner
yesterday, "00 being aboard.
The Pierce Oil Corporation's employees
arrived last night. Americans continue
to reach here from the Interior on every
train.
The gunboat Wheeling arrived to-day
with forty refugees for the Sumner
Vera Cruz IS very tranquil.
Havana, July 1. The steamship Mon
sarat arrived here ti-day crowded with
refugees who swarmed to the ship nt
Vera Cruz, many paying first elasi
fares to sleep on the deck.
Among the arrivals Is Alvnrez Al
varado, tho Consul from Panama. He
says that there Is tho must intense iU
Amerlcan feeling throughout nil of Mex
ico. 1-atln American foreigners are of
fering their services to light the United
(Stales.
When the news of the fight near Mata
moros reached the capital, he said, there,
w.iK a great popular demonstration,
crowds cheering .Mexico and shouting i
Death to grtngoes." Americans falling
to uncover when the national hymn was
plaed were assaulted.
President Carranza and Oen. Obregon
Mulcted the tuob by announcing that they
had ordered the Immediate retirement
of American troops In Mexico.
All accommodations on the next three
ships leaving Vera Cruz are said to be
engaged by peaceful Mexicans who are
ery eager to leave their country.
There Is the most acute poverty and
starvation throughout Mexico.
STRIKE THREATENS CANAL.
NOO Mechnnlca, Inrladln Lock
Operators, Mmy Dull.
fprcial Cahtt )ettr to The Si
Panama, July 1. Right hundred me
chanics, the entire force of tlu Panama
Canal, will decide to-morrow whither or
not to strike on account of a reduction In
wages, taking effect to-day
Includid among the mechanics are the
lock operators. If they should stilkc a
su-penslon of navigation would be threat-
tied. The reduction In wages takes the
foi m of a charge of rent for quarters oc.
cupled by the men. The wage scale on
the canal Is higher than In the navy
vnrds of the United Slates, but Is lesi
thnn the commercial ratt.
Acting Governor Harding Is powerless
because the scale Is nxel ny law mm tne
rent charge i set by the Preldent.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SEC
TIONS AS FOLLOWS:
Psge,
FIRST
SECOND
THIRD
General Ne j lO
Sporting. Kenneli, f'&
Automobiles . . 6J
News of the Resorts.
Drama, F i h i o n i .
Schooli
Pictori il Magitine
Speciil Featurei. Boob,
Quer.ei, Chew . .
Foreign, Real Estate,
Gardens. Poultry, Finan
cial, Pi oblemt . . .
FOURTH
FIFTH
SIXTH
Total
54
fuaJtrs or ntusdtaltrs uho Jo not ro
ttitt all oj Ihtst Mctfou telll tonjet a
Jater on " Tkt Sun" ty nottfyint On Pub
lication Dtparimtnt at one hy At phont
(2200 Bttman) and mlulnt ucthni
uill he promptly foruarJta' poutbl.
INCOME TAX RATE
MORE THAN DOUBLED
New Revenue Bill Introduced
Provides Taxation to Raise
$250,000,000.
BOOST TN THE SURTAXES
They Run Up to 10 Per Cent.
Levies on Inheritances
and Munitions.
Washington, July 1. The emergency
revenue act Intended to raise $2GO,000,000
to defray the expenses of the national
defence programme and a part of the
com of the troop movements Incident to
the troubles on the Mexican border was
Introduced In the Houc to-day in behalf
of. the Administration by Hejiresentatlo
Kltchln, the Democratic leader.
The bill Increases the normal rate of
tho Income tax law from one to two
per cent. It Impose a tax on Inheri
tances and on munitions of war, and
retains nil of the features of the war
emergency net passed by the last Con
gress, with the excoptlon of the stamp
taxes.
It proposes the enactment of an anti
dumping clause aimed nt the flooding
of the American market by foreign goods
and provides for the creation of a non
partisan tariff commission of five mem
bers. The bill levies protective rates on
dyestuffs and chemicals.
Mr. Kltchln and his associates esti
mate that the proposed revenuo law will
yield I2DO.000.uOO a year, apportioned as
follows :
Normal and surtax rates of the in
come tax law, 1 110. 000. 000 ; munitions
tax, $50,000,000 ; inheritance tax, $50,.
000,000: parts of war revenue emer
gency act of the last Congress to be
reenacted. $10,000,000. Grand total,
$250,000,000.
Republican Leaders Surprised,
Republican leaders nTe surprised at the
decision to Increase the normal or basic
late of the Income tax from 1 to 2 per cent.
Tills is applicable to all Incomes above
the exemptions of 83,000 and 14,000, up
to jzu.wuu. in otner words the married
man with an Income of 85.000 a year. ' Person Importing or assisting In Import
who injoys an exemption of 84,000, will j Ing any articles from any foreign coun-
pay jum twice as mucn as rormeny, or,
82u a year Instead of 810. The cxemp-
l.on of 83,000 a eur for single personal
and J4.HO0 for married is not changed. I
mere la also a substantial Increase In
the surtax rates effected through a re
ductlon In the tigures at which the sur
tax rates begin to uperatc. The present
law provides for surtax or additional
iites bejoud the tax of 1 per cent. ;u.
ioiiowh :
One per cent, on incomes that exceed
820,000 un.1 do not exceed 860.000, t
vr cent, on Incomes in excess of 8.'0,000
alia not tn excess of 876,00, 8 per cent,
on incomes in ix oss o. 876,000 and not
in excess of 8100.0UO, 4 per cent, on In
comes In excess of 8100,000 and not In
excess .of 8250,000, 5 per cent, on in
comes in excess of 8j6u.OOO and not In
excess of o0(i,0('0. and 6 wr cent, on
Incomes In ox ess of 8500,000.
Tho proposed law pi -vldes for sur
taxes or rate beyond tl.o propo-ed new
normal rate of 2 per cent, as follows:
One per cent on II conies that exceed
820,0oo and do not exceed 840,000, 2 per
cent, on Incomes In excess of 840,000 id
not in ex-oss of 810,000, 3 per cent, on
Incomes of 850.000 and not In excess of
8S0.0OH, 4 j.er cent, on Incomes in excess
of 8S0.0H0 and not in excess of 8100.HUS.
5 per cent, on Incomes In excess of 8100,
000 and not in exctss of 8150.000, 6 oer
cent, on Incomes In excise of 8150,000
and not In excess of 82oo.ooO, 7 per cent,
on Incomes In exces of 8200,000 and not
111 excess of 8250,000, 8 per cent, on In
dimes In excess of 8250,000 and not in
exiess of 83OO.O00. 0 per cent, on In
comes in excess of 8300,000 and not In
(jicos of 850o,ii0(i, 10 per cent, on In-
.oniesln JXcfHH of 8500,000.
Thus wealthy men with Incomes In
excess of 8500,000 will now have to pay
10 Instead of 6 per cent.
Tin on Inheritances.
The hill provides for n graduated tax
on Inheritances. All taxes will be as
sessed on the "net estate," to be deter
mined l deluding all funeral expenses,
and an exemption from levy is allowed
up to the gross amount of 800,000, The
rates are tlxed as follows:
One per cent, on the amount of net
e-tate less thnn 850,000.
Two per cent, of the amount by which
the net estate exceeds 850,000 and does
not exceed 8150,000.
Three p cent, of the amount be
tween 1150,000 and 8250,000.
Four per vent, of tho amount be
tween 8250,000 and 8450,000.
Five per cent, of the amount by
which the net estate exceeds 8450,000.
The tax will be collectible one year
Coitflnnril on Hcroiul Pagr.
THE SUN
a vast annual'expenditure in excess of the cost of receiving
it through the Associated Press.
Moreover, it is not possible for a ningle newspaper to
compete in news-gathering with the Associated Press,
which is the peerless news-gathering organization of all
the world. With the Associated Press franchise which The
Sun secures through this merger, it will be equipped for
better work so far as concerns its news service than at any
time in its history better than in the old days when it was
a member of a press association, because the Associated
Press of to-day is incomparably better and bigger than any
previous news-gathering organization.
But the gain of The Sun through this merger is by no
means confined to ita acquisition of an Associated Press
franchise. It gains ns well the good will and circulation
of The Press, which is now 135,000 net cash paid on week
day issues and 143,000 net cash paid on a Sunday, and the
best of it is that this circulation of The New York Press is
largely right here in the city itself.
Beginning to-morrow, the price of The Sun will be
reduced to one cent in the one-cent newspaper zone that
is, in Greater New York and its nearby communities,
where other important morning newspapers sell at one
cent. This move will put The Sun on an even footing with
HIGH PROTECTION IN
NEW REVENUE BILL
Measure Has Anti-Dumping
Clause and Big Duties
on Dyestuffs.
INDORSED BY PRESIDENT
Severe Penalties to Bo Im
posed on Persons Conspiring
Against Home Industries.
Wasiii.vo.ton, July 1, The Democratic
revenue bill, which was introduced tn the
House to-day with the Indorsement of
the Administration, contains two Im
portant protective features.
One Is nn nntl-dumplng clause, which
Is designed to protect the American mar
ket against a Hood of European goods
after the war, and the other Is a pro
tective duty on certain manufactured
dyestuffs.
The anti-dumping clause- represents
legislation which President Wilson It
supposed p have recommended for In-, vn Kmerson addressed a gathering of
elusion Ifl th Democratic platform , 100 physicians from the Infected Brook
adopted at St. Louis. A plank supposed district at tho Polhemus Memorial
to have had the President's Indorsement i
was presented to tho committee which
drafted the platform, but It stirred up
so much opposition that all reference to
anti-dumping legislation was finally
omitted and the Democrats reafllrmed
the principle of ttirifT for revenue only
n '!l-n.PrVl"!0n,eln f"WT ,hC
llshmcnt of a tariff comiiilion.
-Many Democrats contend that the pio-
posed antl-dumulng Itglsl.ttlon has a
distinct protective tinge and that this,
together with the duties encouraging the,
iiiaiiuuinviuin vi uitkiuiii', mains wu I
nnrt.ir. (mm .eai.in.i r ..o.. .i. I
riollcy '
. . .,
...,.-....mp,nK r-ntnre.
The anti-dumping clause of tho new
reenue bill follows:
'That when used In this title the term do moie damage and cause more slck
'person' Includes partnership?, corpora- ness than to continue them.
tlons aid associations.
"That it shall be unlawful for any
"J uu" timni oiaies io cuinmoniy
and systematically sell or cause to be
sold such articles within the United
States nt a prlc -uhstantially les than
ne actual marxet value or wholesale
price of such articles, at the time of
exportation to the United States, In the
Principal markets of the country of their
productl m, or of other foreign countries
to whlih they are commonly exported,
after adding to such market value or
wholesale price freight, duty and other
charges and expenses necessarily Inci
dent to the Importation and sale thereof
It. the United States.
"Provided that such act or acts be
done with the Intent of destroying or In
juring an Industry in the United States
or of preventing the establishment of an
Industry In the United States, or of re
straining or monopolising any part of
the trade or commerce In such articles
In th United States.
Pennltr for Violators.
"Any person who violates or combines
or conspires with any other person to
violate this section Is guilty of a mis
demeanor fnd on conviction there.if
shall tie punished by a fine not exceed
ing 85.000 or Imprlsonmen not exceed
ing one year, or both. In the discretion
ot the court.
"Any person Injured In his business
or property by leason of any violation
of or combination or conspiracy to vio
late this section may sue therefor In
the District Court of the United States
for the district In which the defendant
resides or Is found, or lias an agent,
without respect to tho amount In con
troversy anil shall recover threefold the
damages sustained, and the cost of the
suit, including a leasonable attorney's
fee.
"That If any article produced in a
foreign country Is Imported Into the
United States under any agreement, un
derstanding or condition that the Im
porter thereof or any person In the
United States shall not use, purchase
or deal In, or shall be restricted In his
using, purchasing or dealing In, the ar
ticles of any other person thero shall
ho levied, collected and paid thereon,
In addition to the duty otherwise Im
posed by law, a special duty equal
to double the amount of such Out v.
The Secretary of tho Treasury shall
make such rules and legulatlons as are
necessary to carry out this provision.
Dalles an Djeatnlfs.
A general reclassification of tho duties
on dvestuffa is proposed in tne new mil,
Haw products ure to be admitted free,
with rates running as high as .10 per
cent, nd valorem on finished dyes. The
Continued on Krrond Poor.
AND THE
(Reprinted from
INFANT PARALYSIS
KILLS 58 IN WEEK
Fifty-two New Cases He
ported, Bringing the To
tal Up to 379.
WANNING TO PARENTS
Dr. Simon Flexner Tells Phy
sicians Fly Is Not tho
Carrier of tho Disease.
Fifty-two new cases of Infantile paral
ysis were reported to the Healti De
partment yesterday, bringing the total
to 879. Forty-three of these were tn i
Brooklyn districts already affected, 8
were In Manhattan and 1 In The Bronx.
The death list reached 76, of which
S3 were recorded for the week ended
at noon yesterduy. Of the deaths for
the week, 61 occurred In Brooklyn.
The war against the epidemic became
more general yesterday when Dr. Simon i
Flexner and Health Commissioner He-
Clinic, to enlist them In a systematic,
concentrated tight. Dr. Flexner presented
the case from tho latest discoveries.
while Dr. L'merson told what his de
partment Is doing.
After this meeting the Health Com
mlssloner announced that It had been
'Uei to ,l8l Parents In the city, par-
...... ,,, ... ...
tlcularly thoe residing In the vicinity
of a placarded house, to keep their
children away from all public gatherings,
fron, churches am, Sunday schools, from
, , - . ,
picnics, from parties, from motion plc-
,ure onrt ",er theatres. The public
playgrounds nnd the recreation piers will
not oe ciosen yet. careful watch wl
k 0J tu,m ,mt ,t ,H , , tha,
to deprive the children of these oppor-
tunltles for excrelso unu fresh air would
l'lo Wateh nn Food Supply.
In broadening the scope of the work
esterday Inspectors began a syste
matic Investigation of every grocery
store, every Ice merchant, every milk
depot, every candy store or stand or
fruit stand in all Infected districts. The
object is to see that no person who
I- in contact with a sufferer handles
any such merchandise. If a fruit stand
man comes from a place Infected his
stand will be closed down.
The field forces In the live boroughs.
which are working twenty-four hours a
day to uncover cases and do what is
possible in the way of prevention, were
further Increased yesterday. .Ten addi
tional physicians, forty more nurses-and
a large aiuad of inspectors were put to
work. The arrangements now are such
that a physician In private practice may
obtain the services of a diagnostician by
using the telephone, while automatically
the Police Department, the Street Clean
ing Department and the tenement house
squads go to work to clean up the prem
ises and enforce the strictest of sanitary
laws.
The work now of the field force aftfr
the discovery of a case In a district Is
to persuade famllltw to permit the trans
fer of the little patient to a hospital.
special Care In Pavilion.
Tills point was made plain estenlay
the hospital pavilions provided are In no
sene pesthouses. Kvery appliance anl
convenience that science has discovered
Is being utilized. Kvery ward Is light,
cool, screened : the food is the liest dieti
cians can devise. The treatment will
be the very best that the Health De.
p.irtment and private Institutions lilt
the Rockefeller Institute, ns well as spe
cialists, can supply. Sending a patient
to the hospital, according to Dr. Kmer
son, means that in large families the ia:j
and isolation tteatmeiit the disease de
mands will be obviated.
Twenty new patients wtrn taken to
the Kingston Avenue Hospital, Brooklyn,
eslerday, making sixty cases in ail now
there, nnd It was said as t favorable
eiltlrlsm on phsicians In prlvtt praj
tUv that they are foregoing their fees ui
their deblre to help stamp out tho dis
ease. Dr. Flexner's address to the Brooklyn
physicians summed up all that science
anows of the disease and tho 100 or more
physicians In attendance listened atten
tively. Infantile paralysis, according to
tho scientist, is always prevalent In
northern Kuropc. While It attains Its
greatest virulence In the hot months It
continues tho year around. It Is epi
demic In waves and Is not confined to
any particular country. It was noticed
In 1907 that It not only prevailed In the
United States, but In Kuropc, South
America and Australasia. It proceed
Continued on Eighth l'apc,
EVENING
yesterday's Sun.)
I
its competitors, all of which, with the exception of The
Herald, sell at the one-cent price.
Summed up, the acquisition of an Associated Press fran
chise, and of the good will and circulation of The New 1 ork
Press, and the reduction in the selling price of the paper to
one cent, form an epoch of no mean importance in the history
of The Sun.
The Evening Sun, conceived and started in 1887 by as
brilliant a corps of newspaper men as any American news
paper has ever had, now occupies a very splendid place in
the journalistic world. It has come to be the vogue among
evening newspapers. In character and quality, and the es
teem in which it itt held by the substantial citizenship of the
community, it has no rival in its field to-day, save The Eve
ning Post alone. Its net paid daily circulation is now verging
on two hundred thousand, and it has won an advertising pat
ronage that places it in a very strong position.
Very great credit is due Mr. Reick for the fine develop
ment of The Evening Sun since it came under his control.
I know of no man who has done a better and sounder piece of
newspaper work at any time, in New York or elsewhere, than
Mr. Reick has done on The Evening Sun.
In taking over these two newspapers, I do so with full
appreciation of the responsibilities that come with them. I
ANGLO-FRENCH DRIVE HURLS
GERMANS BACK ON 25 MILE
FRONT ALONG RIVER SOMME
L JMSs&ZWer-WMVitf HK.eMCM.Wfc II
TMIE Gorman line on u front of about twenty-live miles north and
south of the Somme has been broken in a combined attack by
British and French troops. Several villages in the direction of
Bapaume nnd I'eronne have been captured nnd heavy ftKhtinp; con
tinues. The British, French nnd Belpinn lines are shown on the ac
companying map as well as the advance, which Is indicated by arrows.
CASEMENT TO ASK
DEATH LIKE EMMET'S
lias Xo Hope That Appeal
Will He Granted and
Arccpts Sentence.
tlifctal Cahtr Pffpntrh to Tnr. Srs
I.Nlio.v, July 2. According to a state
ment Issued to the newsisipers Sir Hoger
Casement nccepts the sentenco of death
ns final. He takes littlo Interest In nn
appeal, which ho considers useless, not
withstanding Ihe optimism of his law
yers. He Is preparing a statement which
he wishes to Issue when his appeal Is
rejected, as he expects It will be. He
will ask to be beheaded as was Hobeit
Kmmet.
The prisoner frequently declares his
willingness to die. He resents having to
wear the clothes of a convict.
U. S. TAKES STEP.
I.tiimlnir Instruct I'lmr In Open I n
foriniil .Vegotliit Ions.
Washington, July 1 Secretary of
State Lansing Is understood to have In
structed United States Amb.u-sador Pate
at London to bring Informally to the
attention of the British Foreign Olllee as
a matter of Information the widespnad
Interest in the United Stales in the fate
of Sir Hoger Casement, who lino been
sentenced to death as a traitor.
This action Is said to have been taken
as the result of a flood of telegrams,
petition nnd memorials which have
reached the White House urging the
President to Intervene and obtain clem
ejicv. It Is explained in Administration
quarters that the American Uovernment
hns no ground upon which to make any
request of the sort.
Senator Marline of New Jersey sought
yesterday to have passed In the Senate
a resolution directing the President to
protest againet the sentence passed on
Casement, but the resolution was re-
ferred to the Foreign Itelatlnns Pom -
mlttee, where It will probably remain.
SUN PASSES TO MR.
10 SHOT IN BERLIN
LIEBKNECHT RIOT
Fifty Persons Arrested in
Course of Demonstration in
Potsdammer Plata.
I.o.vno.v, July 1 A despatch 'mm
the Amsterdam correspondent of the
Cential News states that ten persons
were shot ami fifty arrested during the
riots following a demonstration in the
l'otsdimmer Platz, Ilcrlln, after the sen
tencing of Dr l.lcbkneclit to Jail for
treason.
The despatch says hat a guard Is tw
on duty around the Potsdammer Plat?
to prtvetit any similar actions
GERMAN TROOPS KILL POLICE,
defuse
to I'lrr (in Cologne Mnli In
I'oiid Hint.
..jifcml I'ahlt Dei'itr'i to Tnr. Sin
Amstfiipam, via London, July 1 A
stnry Is printed here but without cou
nt illation of a serious fond I lot In Uo
Icgne. Aivot'illng to the stor ttoops
were ordereil t.i fire on the crowd and
refused, whereupon the police tiled, kill
ing and wounding several persons.
The troops, indlctinnt. tired on the po
lice, the story continues, killing eighteen
p.illienien
$100,000,000,000 COST OF WAR.
.lean I'lnot ltlinilte mil for
Three Year Struggle,
Paris, July 1 The total cost of the
war to all betllgeiei.ts will leach from
J 100,000,000,000 to $120,000,01)0,000 If
the struggle continues for time years,
Jtun rinot, financial wilier, estimated
to-day.
The civil war in America, he pointed
I out, cost less than IS, 000, 000, 000, nnd
the Napoleonic wars, lasting over
twenty ears, and considered the most
i bloody in history of past tlnns. only
j I IS.oOO.OOO.noo.
have a keen realization of the great past of The Sun, and the
unique and incomparable position it achieved under the direc
tion of that master journalist, Mr. Charles A. Dana. His
work was an inspiration and an uplift to all journalists
throughout the length and breadth of the land.
But no man can make a worth-while imitation newspaper.
If Mr. Dana himself were alive and editing The Sun he would
not imitate any past performance. A newspaper must be of
the period, tho day, the hour, the minute. The man re
sponsible for Tho Sun in the present and in the future, while
holding to the best traditions of the past, must square it to
the conditions and requirements of to-day must put into it
his own thought, his own convictions, and his own analysis of
the times and everyday issues.
Mr. Reick will remain with the organization, and Mr. Ed
ward P. Mitchell, who served The Sun so long as its chief
editorial writer under the great Mr. Dana, will still be at tho
head of the editorial department. And many of the old Sun
men, who are steeped through and through with Sun tra
ditions, will remain with us, I hope, and continue to give you
that inimitable Sun llavor and finish that you find in The Sun
alone.
FranK A. Munsey
Lloint Offensive Launched
Teutons Lose lint ire
First Line.
FIVE MILE ADVANCE
XEAI MOXTAUBAN
3Iainet, Serre, Contulmai-
son, La Bobolle, Dotn
pierre. Fay Taken.
RlliTISH CLOSING
IN ON FRICOURT
fP.il--. ) Jinn lo.ic.inso
iiinv -.unu i iiounti.i
:?.50l) Are Captured by
tlie French.
'pi rial t.'nblf Hr'patrh to Tn Sc.
London, July 1. A great allied of
tensive wus Inaugurated this mornlntr
or both sides of tho Hlver Somme.
Urltlsh nnd French launched their
assaults simultaneously on a front of
about twenty-flvo miles nnd captured
tho first lino wf Utirman position on
the entire front attacked. At isont
Hiiban, cast of Albert, where the great-
1 est pt ogress was made, the British
puictratcd the German lines for a
( distance of ovt five miles. Several
1 villages havo been taken, including
Montauban, MutncU, Serre, Contal
I raalsoti. La ltol.scllu on tho northern
I part oi tho front attacked, and Dom-
Pierre, llecquiiuoutt, Huh.iu and Fay
: on tho southern part. The battle Is
still raging with great violence along
tho whole front.
The southern Hank of the front at
tacked by the allied forue.s is only sev
enty miles northeast of Purls.
Koughly, tho front of tvi offensive
extends from the region oft Fny, south
east of lltay, tuwaiil the northwest to
tho region of Commecourt, crossing
the Sumtne nnd the Ancre rivers. The
French are conducting the drive from
the southern cml of the line ua far
north as Curlti, on the northern side of
the Meii.-o, where lighting for posses
sion of the town is s,.lll In progress, the
Urltlsh taking up the task from that
point north.
The immediate objectives of the of
fensive ate the two unpoi tunt railway
and highway centres of IVrnnne, be
hind the southern pan uf the line, and
Kip.iunic, in the north.
In connection with preparation for
the opening of tho offensive French
aviators on the past two nights have
dropped numbers of heavy shells on
the railway stations at Nc-le, ltoyc and
I'onllan.s, behind the Herman front In
i this legion, and also 1 mbanled muni
tion factories ami otner mllit.irj establishments.
Attack .Wade MuiiillfineoiiHl.
Tho drive was hunched simultane
ously by the two armies at 7:30 o'clock
this morning, following six days ot
artillery bombardment desirllrfd an the x
most violent Mt known on the western
front. TIi.h bombardment had covered
the whole Herman fmnt facing tho
northern Flench ami the Urltlsh lines.
This morning at about t! o'clock It was
.suddenly concentrated with unparal
lelled fury nn the front north, east and
southeast of Albeit After an hour
and a half of terrific artillery work the
Infantry climbed from their trenches
nil along the line and drove nt the
Hermans through a i loud of smoke nnd
dust resulting from the luui of shells.
un the Urltlsh right the rush carried
the attacking troops through and over "
trench labyttnth on a ft out of sowi
milts tn a depth of 1.000 vnriN. In thl
same legion Mametz and M intauban tell
Into th" hands of the Hrillsh, who, tr
MUNSEY
MONDAY
1
