IZONA
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAE
21 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY .MORNING, JULY 2, 1916
24 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 13
nn
TTT7
RE
fTRT Tf! A TV
DRIVING
Dm i ion
Crisis Not Coming Until After July the Fourth
mm
FOB REPLY FROM
GEN. Hi
i
THOUSANDS OF MILITIA
ARE MOVING TOWARD
THE MEXICAN BORDER
OJINAGA GARRISON
IS BEING REDUCED
tRcpublican A. P. Leased Wire J
' WASHINGTON, July 1. With the
ndjournmcnt of the house tonight over
the Fourth of July, it became highly
improbable that the crisis between the
1'nited States and the de facto gov
ernment of Mexico would come to a
final issue before Wednesday at the
earliest.
Despite growing impatience over Gen
eral Carranza's delay in complying with
the demands that he state his inten
tions toward American troops in Mex
ico, President Wilson made no move
today toward laying the situation be
fore congress. Officials believe he will
wait some days at least, for a reply to
the note sent a week ago tomorrow,
provided there are no further attacks
upon General Pershing's men in the
meantime.
Before the de facto government had
nmplied with the first demand made
in that note by releasing the prisoners
taken at Carrizal, it was expected the
president would act within a time limit
fixed in his own mind, if there was no
reply or any unfavorable occurrence.
The effect of the release order appar
ently has been to lengthen this limit,
though how much only the president
himself knows.
Under the war department censor
chip, information General Funston or
the leneral staff may have as to the
movements of Mexican troops beyond
PRESIDIO, Tex., July 1. Lack
of food and forage is said to have
caused a reduction of the garrison
j in Ojinaga just opposite here.
Maximum estimates today placed
the garrison at six hundred. It is
j reported that several thousand
troops are concentrated at Larnutu,
j however, thirty miles from Ojinaga.
Army officers say the American
side is well protected.
GttJTRAL GUARD
IS IIIIS
IN GOOD SHAPE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. July 1 Readiness of na
tional guards in the central division
is progressing satisfactorily, accord
ing to army officers here tonight to
v hom reports frcm mobilization camps
the border was not available. Rumors throughout the district were sent. The
said Carraza forces were massing . fo,,ov i , js a sur-mal.y of thl,
around the strip of territory occupied
by General Pershing's men, leaving ! Mal"5 "l iroops 111 ula'"
open only the well guarded road back
to the border.
The rumored movements of Mexican
troops however appear to be In line
with the decision General Carranza. is
said by private advices to have adopt
ed. It was predicted that he would re
affirm his inttntion to allow no opera
tions cf the American forces on Mexi
can soil e.vfept toward the border.
It was the order to this effect of
!eneral Trevino, commanding in Chi
Republican A. P. Leasee! Wire
SAN" ANTONIO, Tex., July 1.
While the war department today was
moving to the frontier thousands of
national guardsmen, General Obregon,
Carranza's minister of war, was en
gaged in strengthening his border
forces.
Minor changes were directed by
him in his armies that now art
quartered in force in almost aU the
northern cities except a few that lie
under the American guns, according
to information that reached the in
telligence department at Fort Sam
Houston.
It was another day without newt
of any clashes between Mexican and
American troops that face each other
acros.i the line.
One of General Pershing's aviators
investigated reports that Mexican
troops had been concentrated at Guz
man and that they even had begun
a march toward the American lines
but his report showed the improb
ability of immediate action from that
quarter. He flew over Guzman, which
is east of the line General Pershing
has established and reporied that the
number of Mexican troops now there
appeared not more than 2,000 and
that apparently no preparations foi
an early move were being made.
Strong Mexican forces have been
distributed along lines paralleling
General Pershing's positions both on
the east and west, but General Fun
ston and his staff officers continued
to believe that he could take care of
himself if the Mexicans did begin to
close in.
Increased caution was displayed at
army headquarters today to keep
secret the movement towards the bor
der of the nutioiial guardsmen
Agents of the department of justice
were working In close touch with tht
military in efforts to learn of any
plot to interfere with the movement
n
TO FAGE
MICE C1GE
nave not l"ft vet for the border
lowi---Qi:o!n, or.e brigade, physical
examination h.is been completed in s!!
inits. exci! t cue l attery, one squad
ron of cavalry and brigade headquar
ters, one hundred and two men have
bee'i discharged because of physical
diabi'ity from the first regiment of of trains and soldier guards watched
infantry. the more important bridges along the
North D ikcta Seven companies of railroads that stretch through tht
Republican A. P Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, July 1. Norton Hand, an
American mining man, held for two
weeks in Sonora, on a charge of homi
cide, today was ordered brought from
Nacozari to Fronteras for trial, ac
cording to Ives G. Lelevier, Mexican
consul here. He said Hand probably
would be brought north tonight or to
morrow. John Watson, an American, reported
killed at Lacaridad mine near Nacozari
by Mexicans was at Nacozari early to
day, according to arrivals. He was
said to 'have refused to come to the
border, expressing the belief that he
would be safe in Sonora. Consul Lele
vier said the state militia is replacing
regular troops in garrisoning the towns
of Sonora, particularly in the Yaqui
Indian country, relieving the regulars
for duty anywhere they may be sent.
AID G1CM
VILLA HEADS NEW
BID OF 11 MEN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Kl. PASO, Tex., July 1. Francisco
Vii'a, with 1.200 followers, is in the
slate of Durango near tne Zacatecas
border, uncording to a report made to
General Bell by an American scout
who reached the border today after
a month's individual rcrsult of the
bandit chieftain. The scout, who for
merly was one of Villa's officers, un
dertook the quest in the hope of ob
taining the re.vn'ds offered for Villa's
capture. His report, however, conflict
ed with ptevi-ius reoorts that Villa
is at P.'jiiquilas 70 mibs west of Chi
huahua City.
IE THROWN
OFFENSIVE
VILLAGES II INI THIS
FORWARD STROflG
Til SEU
infantry have been mistered in. Phy
si al elimination beginning. Ord-
huahui state, which gave the present nance supply recehed todav.
southern part of Texas.
Uy the end of the week thus" in
charge oi the mobilization oeiieve
to that inquiry hangs whatever action , ed. One troop of cavalry and one bat
J resident Wilson has planned. I tery of artillery h ive ben examined
A few bulletins, written in abrupt physically. The entire first regiment
(Continued on Page Two) ! (Continued on Page Three)
PA TROL FIRED UPON
crisis its most ominous aspect. Secre- Missouri AH muster complete".!. I that it will be almost completed,
tary Lansing has defined the order as llngudier General M. Clarke mustered The First Illinois was the first
a hostile act and tersely asked the de ' in ioday as commanding officer of i regiment to go into camp here and it
facto government if it desired that it i M!sseur.i hrigade. ' ! was expected that by tomorrow the
should be so construed. On the answer ! Wisconsin Mastering in complet- Second and Seventh completing the
first brigade commanded by General
P. J. Foster, would be here. The
Seventh, Seventy-first and Four
teenth New York infantry passed
through San Antonio today on 'the
way to the Hrownsville district
Other New York regiments will pass
through tonight and armv officials
believe by Wednesday or Thursday
the New York movement will be com
pleted. The New York division headquar
ters will be at McAlee, where auxil
iary troops and the Second brigade
made up of the Seventh. Twelfth and
Seventy-first regiments will be sta
tioned. The First brigade eompris
ina: the First, Second and Fourteenth
infantry will he at Mission and the
Third brigade of the Third, Sixty-
ninth and Sevents -fourth infantry at
Phan.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, July 1. National guard
regiments of infantry, cavalry and ar
tillery have requested Major Genera!
Leonard Wood and the war department
to detail one and in some cases several
United States army officers to their
commands to aid in bringing the or
ganizations up to the regular army's
standard of efficiency, it was learned
at Governor's Island today.
More than twenty officers from this
department have been recommended
for promotion in the national guard as
a result of the petitions. The officers
in every case will have to be appointed
by the president with temporary rank,
their regular army rank not being in
terfered with during their service with
the guard.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS, July 1. American cav
alrymen patrolling the border three
miles south of here, were fired upon
tonight from the Mexican side of the
line and returned the- fire. None of
the Americans were injured. The per
sons who did the shooting escaped in
the darkness.
The shots were fired at a point
known as the "South Gate" where un
til recently thirty-five men of the Car
ranza customs guard were stationed on
the Mexican side of the imaginary line
which marks the frontier, while a small
detachment of cavalry has been on pa
trol on the American side. It was
through this gate that General Per
shing's command entered Mexico.
Officers investigating the shooting
believed it was done by several irre
sponsible Mexican civilians.
Recommendations by Scott
WASHINGTON. July 1. Designation
of army officers to national guard
commands will he made by General
Scott, chief of staff. Regular officers
will be eligible to command divisions or
brigades and those detailed for na
tional guard duty will be ranked as
colonels and lieutenant colonels.
LIEUTEilfiES
DP "HOT TRAIL"
cas by Mexicans he recognized as hav
ing formerly b-?ei in Villa's army. He
escaped them, he said, through the aid
of friendly natives.
The American's report supported ru
m rs current hi" e that Villa was in
Juarez a week ago yesterday. He said
that Mexicans in Chihuahua City told
him thai this was true. The scout
added tint he had discovered numer
ous evidences that the breach be
tween trie Villistas and I'.ie Carran-
cistas is rapidly being healed.
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
The British and French troops, thrown forward in a
grand offensive against the German lines on both sides ot
the River Somine, sixty miles north of Paris, have pene
trated at one point to a depth of five miles, taken several
villages and captured a labyrinth of trenches, extending
to a depth of 1,000 yards on a front of seven miles.
The drive, the most spectacular in this region since
the British captured Loos last September, began Saturday
morning after the German trenches had been bathed in a
2:;:t rir tlZ hail of shells from guns of every calibre for days. Pro-
he rrachod here he was suffering from j gTCSS lias IjCCU l'epOl'ted along tllG entire fl'Ont of about
wounds intiictu m tne city oi sweater f,,.rj,. f ,. miloe
ilt.VAAl. J t . Hill v .
The greatest success gained by the British was on the
right. In the center they captured, designated in the of
ficial report as "many strong points, along a front of four
miles." But north of the Ancre valley to Gominecourt
powerful counter attacks by the Germans have resulted in
forcing the British back from various sections of the
ground gained in their first onslaught.
The town ot Albert was the starting point of one of the
fiercest thrusts, the British advancing from east of the
town to Montauban, more than five miles away. Besides
Montauban and Serre, the villages of Hebuterne, La Bois
seillo and Mamtez have been captured. Two thousand
German prisoners have been captured through the British
collecting stations.
In cooperation, the 'British and French initiated a
strong offensive. South of the Somme they captured four
villages and north of that river they established them
selves in the neighborhood of Hardecourt and Curlu. The
number of unwounded German prisoners taken by the
rrench had reached 3.o00 up to the time of the sending of
the last official report.
The recapture of the famous Thiaumont work by the
French also has been effected. This important strategic
point has changed hands several times and around it prob
ably thousands of men have fallen. On the left bank of the
Meuse the fighting is most intense around Hill ;W4. Le
Mort Homme and Avoeourt.
In the Trentino. the Italians continue to advance along
the entire Possina line and in the Arsa valley. Artillerv
bombardments mark the action on the rest of the Austro
Italian front.
While the Russians report progress south of the
Dniester river, in Galicia, the Austro-Germans claim the
capture of Russian works west and northwest of Lutsk,
HUGHES ENJOYS
DIES III
HE CLASH
NKHI
in ens
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I'.RIDGEHAMPTON, N. T July 1
Charles K. Hughes, the republican
presidential nominee, here on his first
real vacation in ten years, today golfed
a little, motored a little and devoted
the remainder of the day just to walk
ing about.
The actual campaign probably will
begin the latter part of August.
MO OFFiST
EMffiSi
republican A. P. Leased Wire , altitude and hardships of lot) hours
EI, PAKO, Tex., July 1. General of traveling.
Pell, Jr., commanding the Kl Paso; All the men recuperated quickly
military district, denied persistent and resumed their duties. The com
r"mors that American ranchmen had ' tinny consists of 73 men and 5 of-
lushed with Mexican bandits in the ficers.
vicinity of Fort Hancock. Mexican j The ISO men and 150 horses of
iiuuioriues in Juarez also aenlea tne , li battery. New Jersey national en.irrt
rumors.
"I have sent troops to Fort Han
cock," General Eell said, "but there
another of the early arrivals, came
through in good shape. They also
were on the road- more than 100
have been no clashes in that vicinity ' hours.
u nd there has been no firing." j 11 was stated unofficially tonight
General Bell asserted that any ex- I
planation of the troop movement
must come from General Funston in
San Antonio.
The El Paso regular garrison of
4,0oo men had been augmented at
dusk tonight by the arrival of ap
proximately 10,000 guardsmen from
Massachusetts and New Jersey. In
cluded in the Massachusetts contin
gent were the Second, Fifth, Eighth
and Ninth regiments of infantry, the
first battalion of field artillery, a
field hospital and ambulance corps
a signal company and a cavalry
troop.
Two batteries of field artillery, a
regiment of infantry, two troops of
cavalry and a signal company com
prise the New Jersey organizations.
The first ambulance company of
the Massachusetts guardsmen had, as
its initial duty after detraining here
this afternoon the care of a dozen
of its members who collapsed while
making camp at Fort Bliss. They
were overcome as a result of heat,
that several scores of trains of na
tional guard organizations would ar
rive here tonight and tomorrow.
Ready for Gunrdcmen
NOGALES, Ari;., July 1. Numbers
of workmen today began construction
of new buildings, laid out by Major
Willard Newbill, as adjuncts of a
I quartermaster's djpot to be main
j taintd here. Work is also to be be
j gun immediately on a $16,000 hos
I pital building, it was announced.
It is learned tonight that under
present plans about 10,0b0 United
States troops are to be maintained
here, or, in the event of hostilities to
be supplied from this point. The
freight yards here tonight were filled
with cars of provisions and supplies.
After having been taken from a
train at Lomas, four miles south of
the border yesterday by Major Pelon
Palma, and held there over night,
Mrs. William Hamilton, Mexican wife
of an American connected with a
sugar company at Loj Mochis, was
brought into Nogales today by Jose
Estrada secretary to Igancio Bonil
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, July 1. Unwilling
ness of a lieutenant of the Kighth cav
alry today to assume responsibility
when in pursuit of raiders near Fort
Hancock served to avert the adding of
another complexity to the international
situation.
Ijate reports to General Funston told
cf the raid by eight Mexicans about G4
miles southeast of El Paso. Lieutenant
Kdwin N. Hardy of the Kighth cavalry
with a small detachment began the
pursuit. He did not come within range
of the raiders but followed their trail
to a point where it entered the river,
leading in the direction of the Mexican
side. The Mexicans had driven away a
few horses.
The lieutenant reported the incident,
adding that he did not feel like asum
ing the responsibility of following the
Mexicans across the Rio Grande. Cap
tain Klroy Kiting was ordered by Gen
eral Bell at Fabens to make an inves
tigation and if the trail was found
still "hot" it was expected he would
follow it across. He was cautioned,
however, to avoid if possible, a conflict
with any of Carranza's troops.
-o
Docker y Kept
On Going As
Per His Orders
I Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEXICO CITY, July 1. General
Candido Aguilar. minister of foreign
affairs of the de facto government,
declared today that the government
had authorized no commission what
ever to act for it regarding peace. The
declaration of the foreign minister re
fers to the commission
parted for the United States with a
view, it is said, to working for peace
in conjunction with American pacificists.
"Whatever work they engage in.
said General Aguilar, "will proceed
solely from individual work and can
never be considered as having an offi
cial character."
The government is endeavoring to i
protect and foster the fishing industry
by imposing restrictions on those wno
come from abroad to fish in Mexican
territorial waters. It is announced that
in order to fish in Mexican water it
will be necessary to obtain a license,
renewable each year from the finance
secretary.
The new street car tariff went into
force here today. The fare is now 20
cents Mexican.
;il minister re-i . i, . .... , , ,,
which has de- especially m the vicnntv of Sokul, Volhvnia.
.Maintaining their drive against the Austrians in Gali
cia. in the region of Kolomea, the Russians have captured
many villages. Northwest of Kimpolung, Bukowina, the
Russians already are in the mountains and they report the
seizure of several strong positions. Attacks of German
troops m the region ot the Lipa river were repulsed with
heavy losses Petrograd asserts.
The German troops under General Von Linsimren,
have taken Russian positions west of Kolkia and south
west of Sokul. Fighting is in progress southwest of Lutsk.
General von Linsingen's forces since June 16 have cap
tured 26 officers and 4165 men. Petrograd reports the
Iiiuiiiuti ui internets laivc'Ji ll'Oin J Ulie 4 to June .)() llK'lll-
I sive as 217,000 officers and men.
Mexicans Say Expedition
Being 'Driven' Northward
Republican A. P. Leased Wire I
COLUMBUS, X. M.. July 1 Circu-
lars distributed in the towns in the
Namiqulpa district, recently evacu-!
atod by the American expeditionary j
command, announce that the Ameri
cans are being driven north by "loyal
Carrancista troops" according to ref-'
ugees arriving here today. Mexican
recruiting agents, following in the
wake of the American command, are
urging also that "volunteers to con-
tinue the good work are absolutely j
ncessary to the Carrancista cause,"
they said. I
A general enlargement of the ex
peditionary base here has begun. Ex
tra railway spurs to handle troop and
supply trains are under construction
and numbers of buildings are spring
ing tip to house supplies. Military
censors have announced that all
movements of regular or militia
troops must be withheld.
Reports that armed iMexicans had
crossed the New Mexican frontier
west of here were denied tonight by
Colonel H. C. Sickles, commanding
the border patrol.
CNDUm ENDS FISCSL II
WITHftHEXCESS OF 578,737.81
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
McAdoo said, ainountcn to $211,Stifi,-
VAHINGTON, July 1. The gov- 222.TA as against $209, 268,107.4:; the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, July 1 William Dock
ery, a private in Company B, Arizona
organized militia, reported yesterday as
missing, returned to camp today after
walking nearly forty miles while on
outpost duty.
The private (a recent recruit, it was
said, at militia headquarters) was
placed on guard at the international
line yesterday with the instructions to
walk to the east until he met the sentry
he was to relieve.
In some manner Dockery missed the
sentry, officers stated today. He kept
walking until finally last night he met
a patrol on guard at Slaughter's ranch,
18 miles east of the camp.
"Dockery certainly obeyed instruc
tions," an officer remarked, "but it is
a good thing he met that patrol or he
probably would have walked to El
Paso.
eminent closed its fiscal year yester
day with ttrtl receipts of $S3S,403,9b:
and total disbursements of $759,666,15.
an excess of $78,737,810, compared
w'ith a deficit of $59,436,580 for the
year ending June 30 last. With the
Inccme tax and internal revenue -receipts
in 1916 showed up far above
the estimates made by Secretary lie
doo and swelled the balance. Income
tax receipts amounted to i 124,867,430,
compared with $79,828,075 last yean, an j
increase ot aiiout jts.iimu.uou over mo
amount expected by officials even rts j
late as a week ago. OL' the total $36,
309.941 came from corporations and
?67.857,47 from individuals.
The balance in the general fund at
the close of the year was $236,S59,5U0,
including amounts to the credit of
dshursing officers. The actual balance
was $174,965,231. the largest balance
in the general fund since 19118.
In -x statement analyzing V.ie figures
Secretary McAdco sail larger internal
revpr.uo rccei) ts of the year have been
due in . iTrert measure "to the un
precedented prosperity of the country
and the vigorous enforcement of the
internal revenue laws"
' Custom receipts for the yeur, Mr.
previous year, and exceeding the esti
mate by more than $16,000,000.
"Rtceipts from internal revenue,'
spid his statement, "reached a total
of $.")12.740.7G9.58, and exceeding all
Germans Are Eager
PARIS, July 1. The eagerness of
the Germans to finish their task at
Verdun is shown by the furious at
tacks delivered and the immense risk
taken by them during the past 48
hours. These attacks culminated in
the recapture of the Thiaumont work,
northeast of Verdun. It was, how
ever, only a momentary gain for the
Germans, as the French soon retook
the fortified work which has changed
hands several times, and it now is
in French hands.
French participation in the English
offensive elsewhere on the long line
was announced officially last night.
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Tlureei
Berlin Admits Long Awaited
British Offensive Has Begun
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN, July 1 (via London, July I
2). iPrivate advices from the front in- j
dicate that the long awaited British !
offensive on the west front finally haa
I begun. The earlier activity of the
I British had a more or less "feeling out"
I character and left it uncertain whether
j General Sir Douglas Haig was in ear-
nest or merely endeavoring to hold the
j German forces on his front. But today
I it is fairly apparent that the new
I movement is the beginning of a serious
j offensive.
j The headquarters' report today
speaks of heavy artillery fighting, gas
attacks and the explosion of mines as
preliminaries to the strong reconnais
sance in force along the the Anglo
Franch front. These, it is declared,
were everywhere repulsed.
There is no uneasiness manifest here
in military circles familiar with the
situation, though it is evidently realized
that this is only the beginning.
Coincidentally with the Anglo-French
offensive, the Turkish second army
ha? launched a general offensive
against the Russians in Persia on a
front extending from Kermanshah to
Urumiah lake.
