1916
VOL. LV1II. NO. 205
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 1916
TEN PAGES 70 COLS.
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its iotal Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
Cabled Paragraphs
Shortage of Tobacco.
Manila, Aug. 2D. 'Cigar manufac
turers cf this city, asserting: that a to
bacco corner is in operation, have ap
pealed to the government to intervene..
The price of tobacco is soaring. TTio
government officials say they believe
this is due to a world shortage.
Condensed Telegrams
Fourteen United States war vessels
are in San Diego harbor.
riven Ashore
A membership of the Chicago Board
of Trade was sold for $3,000.
The Windsor Hotel at Santa Clara,
N. Y., was destroyed by fire.
ON THE ROCKS OF THE OUTER
HARBOR OF SAN DOMINGO
NEW YORK WOMAN TRIED
IN VAIN TO SAVE BABY
1796 arsfa
u fifiAafl- flac; -era a. 3d. wi
Exports from New York in the week
of August 26, totalled $78,106,381.
The tenth annual national con
ference on t.'iYininn nnened .at fntiiiin-
New Haven Road to Refuse All Shipments Which Garv
not be Delivered Before 7 A. IVS. Sept. 4th
ACTION TAKEN BECAUSE
President Wilson Has Placed the Matter Before Congress for
Special Legislation He is Making Superhuman Efforts
to Have the Threatened Strike Averted Chief Executive
Still Hopeful That the Brotherhoods Will Rescind Their
Strike Order, Believing That if They Carry it Out Pub
lic Opinion Will Stand Against the Trainmen.
New York, Aug. 29. The Now York,
New Haven an,l Hartford Railroad
Company announced tonight that he
cause of the impending railroad strike
it will iv-riiy hereafter all shipments
of freight which cannot be delivered
Ufon , a. m. on September 4th.
An announcement by the railroad
tnys in part:
"In view of the strike omcr to stop
the commerce of the United States
it becomes necessary for the company
to refuse to receive any more freight
loaded after this notice from con
necting rail or steamship lines or at
local stations, with these exceptions:
"First, freight will be received at
point of interchange from connecting
rail or steamship lines or at local sta
tions when, witn the approval of the
superintendent, the time Tor trans
portation is such it can be delivered at
the destination not later than such an
hour or September 3rd as will .permit
placing before September 4th.
"Second, Shipments of fuel, material
end supplies for tno operation of the
railroad.
"All freights accepted after this no
tice will be subject to delay, loss and
damage because of the strike so ord
ered. Every effort will be mae to
move all freight now o.i the I'.ne or
at junction poVits to destination and
to place for unloading prior to Sep
tember 4, preference being given to
livestock, perishables and to food
stuffs for human consumption.-'
It was learned that similar action
is being considered by the other roads
en'erir this city.
Albeit T. Hardin, vice president of j
Tie. ao,v 1 nr t emra!, said t micrht
that A. II. Smith, the president, was
expected here from Washington to
morrow, when the question of estab
lishing an embargo probably would be
considered.
Southern Pacific Warns Passengers.
San Francisco. Oak, Aug. 23. The
folk. who." i-iKtriM'titxiH were telegraph
ed by ti!" lie.nhpiar'ers of th? South
ern Pacific Railroad 'ompany .tonisii
to all divi.-ion superintendents :
"Please instruct all pawms'-r and
ticket agents by wire at once to noti
fy .passengers unless thov can reach
their destination .by Sunday night,
September 'ird, they may be subject to
Ijerploxing delays."
M. K. & T. Announces Embargo.
Dallas, Tex., Au-T. 29. General of
fices of the Missouri, Kansas and
Texas Hailroad here announced today
nn embargo on all perishable, rrelght,
effective tomorrow morning. The or
der also states no livestock will be
(.o'ceptecl f r shipment unless it reach
es its di'Htinatinn by Sunday morning.
The railroad accepts all other classes
of freight subject to delay.
Atchison Not Responsible for Ship
ments. Topeka, Kas., Aug. 29. The Atchi
son, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway
today placed an embargo on all ship
ments of perishable goods and live
stock, effective at once, according to
H. statement issued from the o ce of
I. R. Koontz, general freight agent.
The order also states the company
will no; take the responsibility on
other shipments.
PRESIDENT LAYS RAILWAY
SITUATION BEFORE CONGRESS.
Submits Six Propositions That Would
Meet the Emergency.
Washington, Aug. 29 President
"Wilson, laying the railway strike su
uation before congress today, with
recommendations for iegislation, ad
vanced tho crisis to a staga where the
next developments depend on two
joints. They are:
Whether the legislation he proposes
can be passed ?
If enacted, will it bo effective to
prevent a strike already called for 7
a. m., Sept. 4?
Neither of these questions can be
p.nswered tonight.
The brotherhoods themselves, an
nouncing their intention to fight cer
tain parts of the president's pro
gramme, are at loggerheads over
whether its enactment would prevent
the strike.
The railway presidents, favorable to
President Wilson's plan in the main,
think it would make it difficult for the
strike to begin.
Wilson Making Superhuman Efforts.
Meanwhile, although negotiations be
tween the employers and men were
broken off today by the rejection of the
railway presidents' last proposal for
arbitration, President "Wilson is con
tinuing his efforts to bring the two
Bides together on some fori.i of agree
ment. Efforts which might well be
described as almost superhuman are
being exerted to that end tonight.
"When the brotherhood leaders this
morning rejected the latest proposal
to the railroads nad definitely set the
strike for Labor day, without further
notice, President Wilson decided to lay
the whole situation before congress.
Before a joint session of the house and
senate, and with a solemn recital of
the distress and disaster a strike
would bring to the country, tho presi
dent proposed a plan of legislation.
President Wilson's Proposal.
This Is the proposal in his own lan
guage: "First, immediate pnovislon. for, the
enlargement and administrative ' reor
ganization of the interstate commerce
OF IMPENDING STRIKE
commission a. long the lines embodied
in the biil recently passed by the house
of representatives and now awaiting
action by the senate; in ortler that the
commission be enabled io '.leal with
the many great and various dalles ii.av
devolving open it wit h a promptness
and a thoroughness which are wilh its
present eoastitution and means of ac
tion practically impossible
Eirjht Hour C-iy as Legal Basis.
Second, the establishment of an eight
hour day as tae lefi-vl 'oasis alike of
work and of wages in the employment
of ail railway onipioyc s who are actu
ally t".:gago.- in the work of operai.
trains i:: int'-r.-r.aie transportation.
Third, the authorization of the ap
pointment by the president of a. small
body of men to observe the a-ttml re
sults in experience of the adoption f
the eight hour day in raf.ro .-.d trans
portation alike for tb.1 men and for the
railroads; it; c-y-ct s in the matter of
operation casts, in the a pplica T ion of
the existing practices and agreements
to the new conditions, at1.! in ail oMu-r
practical aspeets, with the provisio
that the investiga.tors snail report their
conclusions to the criiress at the
earliest possible dat. bat without rec
ommendation as to lee'slaf ive action;
in order that the puolia may learn
from an unprejudiced source just what
actual developments ha.ve ensued.
Increase of Freight Rate.
Fourth, explicit a:.j-ov.'tl by the
congress of the eon:- idora ti .n by the
interstate commerce commission of an
increase of freight rates to meet sueli
additional expenditures by the rail
roa.ds .as may have been rend -red by
tbe adoption of tire eight hour dav
and which have not been offset by ad
ministrative readjustments and econ
omics. .:hoald the facts disci. -.sod jus
tify the increase.
Investigation Eeforc Strike.
Fiffh, an amendment of the existing
federal statute w'lii h provides for The
mediation, conciliation and arbiiratSm
of such controversies as the present,
by adding to it a prevision that in
case the methods of accommodation
now provide.! for should fail, a fj-.T;
public investigation of the merits cf
every such dispute shall l.e instituted
and completed before a strike or lock
out may lawfully be attempted.
Government to Take Control.
Sixth, a lodgment in the hauls of
the executive of the pawor, in case of
military necessity, to take control of
such portions and such rolling stock
of the. railways of the country as may
be required for military use and to
operate them for military purpose.'-,
with authority to draft into the mil
iary service of the United States si' oh
train crews and administrative officials
as the circumstances require for their
safe and efficient use.
President Wilson had a conference
tonight in Speaker Clark's room at tile
capitol with the speaker. Republican
Leader Mann, Democratic Leader
Kitchin, Representative Stirling of
Illinois, ranking republican of the
house interstate commerce commission,
and Representative Adamson, the
ciiairm an.
Hopinq for Recall of Strike Order.
Tho president confided to advisors
tonight his earnest hope that the
brotherhoods, recognizing the fairness
with which ho has treated them, would,
pending action by congress, rescind
their strike order. He asked the lead
ers to do so at their conference last
night, but they refused flatly, saying
thev had not the power. President
Wilson takes the position that in view
of his recommendations to congress
the brotherhoods have much to lose if
they carry out their strike order, be
cause he believes under such circum
stances public opinion will stand
against them
CHICAGO RAILWAYS SWAMPED
WITH TRANSFER TRAFFIC
Freight Handlers Have Called a
Strike for Road Today.
Chicago, Aug. 29. Chicago, the
great railway center in the world,
fought in the face of di culties today
to transfer thousands of cars of
freight in time for them to reach des
tinations ahead of Septemeer aecond,
the date declared by many western
roads tonight for an embargo on per
ishable freight.
A strike of freight handlers in the
yards of several railroads, which
threatened to become general within
twenty-four hours, hit Chicago just as
the time railway officials were swamp
ed with transfer traffic.
By vote of the International Bro
therhood of Freight Handlers, local
unions tonight it was determined to
call a general strike at noon tomorrow
of all f.-eight handlers in Chicago,
numbering about (5,001, unless con
cessions demanded from the employers
are granted before that hour.
Approximately 1500 men quit work
yesterday and today. The question at
issue is not higher wages, but the
right of the unions to collect dues
from, members at their places af
employment.
The twenty-seven railway lines en
tering Chicago have been preparing,
however, to handle an enormous
amount of freight east and west with
in the next week.
The embargo, railway officials said,
will principally affect HvestocK. Ex
ceptionally heavy receipts of hogs,
Struggled to Get Perambulator From
Under Wheels of Runaway Automobile.
New Tork. Aug. 29. In attempting
t osave her five-months' old daughter,
who was killed by a runaway auto
mobile on Riverside Drive, Mrs.
George Herman, of 15 Fort Washing
ton avenue, was seriously injured to
day. She seized the front of the ma
chine as it struck the baby carriage,
in which was her little daughter,
Edith, and was dragged thirty feet.
The automobile left unattended at
Broadway and laSth street, suddenly
started down the incline toward River
side drive. Mrs. Herman was pushing
the baby carriage near the river wail
when the runaway machine swerd
and ran directly toward her. She
attempted to clear the machine, but it
struck her and the baby carriage,
sweeping along with it and 'finally
the mother's efforts to save it.
Mrs. Herman was frantic with grief
and fright when taken to the Wash
ington Heights hospital in a passing
automobile. In her arms was clutch
ed the body of her baby; she did not
know the child was dead. "When doc
tors informed her that her daughter
had been killed she became hysterical.
Edward Jlighton, chauffeur of the
machine, was arrested and charged
with homicide. He said he left the
car, an electric vehicle, standing with
the' brakes set. ne could not account
for the accident.
RELIEF OF FOPULATION
OF VAR-STRICKEN LANDS.
Question as Affected by the Season's
Harvests.
London, Aug. 29. The arrival of the
harvest materially affects the whole
question of rel.ef to the civil pooula
tion of die territories occupied by the
central empires for the forthcoming
year, and tho position may now be
summarized as follows:
It is stated on good authority tftct
the population of Poland has dimin
ished by about 50 per cent, as the re
sult of migration into Russia and star
vation during the past winter. The
remaining population, however, to
gether with the German soldiers, hiss
produced a considerable harbest, and
it is considered by the German and
Austrian authorities that the local pro
duction will be ample not only to Sup
port the civil population, bit. to per
mit some export to Germany and
Austria.
Much the same situation exists in
Serbia, and, therefore, while there may
be some shortage in meats, fats anil
milk, tho papulation in Poland and
Serbia after the harvest can be suf
ficiently provided for out of their own.
production.
Belgium has a fair harvest, which,
by agreement between the relief com
mission and tiie German authorities, is
left entirely to tho civil population. On
the other hand, the T.elgian local pro
duction, (von in norr.ir.l times, amounts
to only about one-third of the require
ments of the nopula t ion, and therefore
Belgian relief as before must continue
or. u large scale.
SHIPPING BILL TAKEN
UP AGAIN IN THE HOUSE
All But Two of the Senate Amend
ments Were Concurred In.
Washington. Aug. 29. With a
rpiorum of representatives back in
Washington, the administration ship
pine: bill was again taken up in the
house today and all but two of the
senate amendments were concurred
in, 44 to 29. The remaining amend
ments which would admit foreign
built ships to the coastwise trade and
require rofusnl of clearance to any
vessel declining an American cargo
for any other reason than lack of
capacity, will be disposed of tomor
row. Republicans opposed the bill. The
amendments concurred in expressly
exclude tramp steamers from the pro
visions of the measure, eliminate the
secretaries of commerce and labor
from mcmbcrshi on the federal ship
ping board, reduce the salary of mem
bers of the board from Sin.OOO to $7,
500 and provide for investigation of
means of meeting discriminations
against vesseis flying the American
flag.
KING GEORGE CONGRATULATES
KING FERDlNAfiD OF RUMANIA
Expresses Great Satisfaction With En
try of Rumania Into the War.
London, Aug. 23, S.10 p. m. King
George has sent the following congrat
ulatory message to King Ferdinand of
Rumania:
"I desire to express to your majesty
the great satisfaction with which the
news of the entry of Rumania into the
war has been received by myself and
my government and the whole British
nation. I rejoice that the valiant Ru
manian army will now fight side by
Eide with the armies of the allies,
bringing still nearer the approach of
the triumph of our great cause and.
hastening thereby the fulfillment of
Rumanian national apirn; ions."
GERMAN SUBMARINE ATTACKED
A PORTUGUESE GUNBOAT
Submerged When Gunboat Opened
Fire On Her.
London, Aug. 29, 9:p5 p. m. The
German submarine U-20' attacked a
Portuguese gunboat off the entrance
to the harbor of Lisbon last night, ac
cording to an Exchange Telegraph
Company despatch from the Portu
guese capital. The torpedo fired by
the submarir.a missed its mark and
the submarine submerged when the
gunboat opened fire on it, the despatch
adds.
cattle and Bheep at the Chicago, Kan
sas City, East St. Louis and other
markets are anticipated before the
embargo becomes effective.
Railway officials laid plans to oper
ate trains with non-union men, or
none-strikers, within the railway
brotherhoods' memberships, In the
event of a strike. Some of the offi
cials said they would operate 23 per
cent of the regular traffic out of Chi
cago from the minute a strike was
declared and could build up this ser
vice until it was practically normal
within thirty days.
MANY LIVES WERE LOST
A Great Sudden Ground Swell Caused
an Inrush of Water That Extinguish
ed All the Fires Under the Boilers.
San Domingo, Aug. 29. The United
States armored cruiser Memphis was
driven ashore on the rocks of the outer
harbor today by a great sudden ground
swell. It is said that many lives were
lost as a result of the disaster. All
the fires under the boilers of the
Memphis were extinguished by the in
rush of water.
The T'nited States gunboat Castine
managed to escape by putting to sea.
Formerly the Tennessee.
The. United States cruiser Memphis
was formerly the armored cruiser
Tennessee. Recently the Memphis has
been doing duty in San Doiningo wa
ters in connection with tho revolution
in that country.
She is a vessel of 14,300 tons and
has a horse power of 2:;, 000. Her
complement is 990 men. She is the
t!n??hip of the cruiser force of the
t'nited States Atlantic fleet.
Capiat E. Ij. Beach was in com
mand Other officers on board includ
ed Lieutenant Commander Y. S. Wil
liams, Lieutenant T. Withers. Jr..
Lieutenant C A. Jones and Junior
Lieutenants H. G. Shonerd, W. J. Car
ver, F. L. Shea, J. L. Kerley and II
J. Peiree, Ensigns D. M. Siecce, J. II.
Rockwell, M. J. Walker, R. T. Harrow,
D. D Dupre and II. M. Meyers; Passed
Assistant Surgeon J. D. Mcars, Passed
Surgeon G. E. Robertson, Dental Sur
geon R. Barber. Passed Assistant Pay
master K. C. Mcintosh. Acting Chap
lain C. V. Ellis and First Lieutenant
of Marines R. L. Shepard.
U. S. ARMORED CRUISER
MEMPHIS A TOTAL LOS'3.
Twenty Men Returniny to Her in a
Motorboat Were Drowned.
Washington, Aug. 29. Rear Admiral
Pond at Santo Doming o City cabled
the navy department tonight that the
armored cruiser ilempbis. swept upon
the rooks by a heavy sea in the harbor
there today, would be a total loss and
although it was expected all on board
would be saved, twenty men returning
to the ship from shore leave in a mo
torboat had been drowned.
The message follows:
"Terrible wer tber in harbor. Mem
phis ashore. Crew being disembarked.
More than twenty men lost with mo
torboat. Castine safe at sea."
Admiral Ilenson explained that the
construction of the Memphis is such
that she probably would stand a great
amount (if pounding, allowing for res
cue of those aboard, lie said he was
puzzled over how the accident occur
red, since officers of the ship had been
warned early today of approach of a
tropical storm.
The admiral's despatch follows:
"Memphis driven ' ashore by heavy
sea. .San Domingo City, west of light
house at 4.20 p. m. She is lying close
under bluff; lines ashore and is get-tin2-
off crew. Heavy sea came up
suddenly and ship was unable to get
up sam in time to save herself.
Twenty men of liberty party drown
ed on way back to ship. Castine
(gunboat) dragged tdose in but did
not strike and got out to sea. No
other casualties known. Memphis
will be total loss. Expect to save
eave everybody on board."
MAKES CANVASS OF MEW YORK'S
FOOD AND FUEL SUPPLY
Police Gather information for Use in
Event cf Strike.
New York, Aug. 29. Because of the
talk of a general strine or railroad
employees throughout the United
States, Arthur Woods, Police, Com
missioner, began to-day a canvass of
the wholesale dealers in food supplies
and the various railway systems run
ning Vito New Yor. for the purpose of
finding out exactly what supplies of
food and fuel are necessary for this
city and how the city could be pro
visioned in the event of a strike. The
information obtained by Mr. Woods
will be turned over to the Statistical
Bureau of the Police Department for
tabulation.
A superficial investigation, Mr.
Woods said, had led him to the belief
that the food supplies held oy whole
salers normally would only suffice to
feed the city through one weex. This
was particularly true of the meat and
flour supplies. Surplus stocks of meat
were kept outside the city, he found
and while some surplus wheat stocks
were kept here, the absence of mills
would prevent quick conversion into
flour. Grocery supplies on hand could
be stretched over a period of two
weeks, he believed.
The city's milk supply, which comes
daily from territory within a radius of
400 miles of t ehcity, might be main
tained through the use of motor trucks
and steamboats, Mr. Woods said.
In the case of drugs, no fear was
entertained, as wholesalers reported
that their stocks are sufficient to last
from two to three months.
Mr. Woods sent a letter ro all
wholesale dealers asking their co
operation in the canvass.
SUSPENSION OF ORDERS
DISCHARGING STUDENTS
Who Are Scattared Through Guard
Organisations Now -on Border.
Washington, Aug. 29. Secretary
Baker today temporarily suspended a
recent war department order dis
charging students from the national
guard in time to resume their studies
this fall, pending an investigation.
The suspension upplies only to in
dividual students scattered throughout
the guard and not to the college or
ganizations composed entirely of stu
dents. Boy Drowned in New Haven Harbor.
Nw Haven, Conn., Aug. 29. Gordon,
the 11 year old son of Captaivi George
B. Keller, a well known waterfront
man, was drowned in the harbor late
today. The boy was .playing with a
toy sailboat off a dock when hla feet
became entangled in a rope and he
was drawn into the water. The body
was recovered.
apolis.
runs plans ia levy c lax ui o uei ,
cent on all restaurant bills over $1 a ,
person. j
I
Shipments of fresh and cured meats
from Chicago last week totaled 43,-
010,000 pounds.
Rev. Thomas I. B. Walker, of Rush-
ville, was killed when his automobile
plunged down a steep hill.
The Japanese Trade Comission ar
rived in Petrograd to investigate
trade conditions in Fussia.
Baron Burian wiil resign as Aus-tro-Hungarian
Premier. iiis succes
sor wiil be Count Apponyi.
Four German prisoners cf war who
escaped from imcrmnont at Amherst,
N. S., a few days ago were captured.
A reduction of five cants in the price
of light crude oil has been annuonc
ed by the Magnolia I'etruleum Co., at
Dallas.
Police Sergeant Charles O'Gara and
six men arrested nine opium and co
caine users and peddlers in a series of
raids at Kevvark.
The Battleships Ohio, Missouri and
the Wisconsin, composing the Xa.val
Academy practice cruise squadron, re
turned to Annapolis.
The American Red Cross announced
that fifty-live of its most expert nurs
es had been sent to the border for
duty with the troops.
Strike headquarters were opened in
the Grand Pacific Hotel at Chicago by
H. J. Carr, chairman of the Rock
Island Railroad employes.
Four hundred and sixty -three new
oil wells have been started in Cali
fornia since the first of the year ac
cording to the state bureau.
Tony Panzo, six years old of New
Haven, stepped on a rusty nail last
week. The wound became infected
and he died of tetanus yesterday.
Six additional cases of infantile pa
ralysis were reported to the state
board of health Tuesday, making a to
tal number of the state to date 442.
The New Jersey State Board of Ed
ucation decided to postpone until C'ct.
2 the reopening of the state normal
schools at Trenton, Newark and Mom
clair. Forty-two mounted members of fhe
New York police left on a ride for
Syracuse, where they will give exhi
bitions at the State Fair, which begins
Sept. 11.
One hundred Sing Sing convicts
employed in the wagon and tin shops
according to prison attaches went on
strike and refused to work until thew
! got better food.
s
The American fishing schooners
Maxine Elliott and Lizzie Criffin. which
jwere seized by a British patrol-bcat
while hshing oft the coast of Iceland,
were ordered released.
Over 16,000 anthracite miners, who
recently struck at the Philadelphia &
Reading and the Susquehanna Com
pany in the Shamokin district collieries
voted to return to work.
The Western Union Telegraph Com
pany's cable steamship Minia was bad
ly damaged and one of her crew suf
focated in a fire which burned for five
hours at Halifax, N. S.
More than $4,000,000 worth of silk,
the largest shipment from Japan this
year left Seattle in 6 special cars over
the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Railway, for New York.
Four hundred 'redheads' from Indi
ana, Ohio, Kentucky, Michigan and
Illinois held ther first reunion at In
dianapolis, and organized the Red
head League of America.
Rewards of $5,000 were offered by
the Colorado Fuel & Iron Co. in an
effort to punish those responsible for
the recent dynamiting outrages in the
Rockefeller mining district.
Lester Heebner, aged 17, who was
shot while shooting frogs at Bantsm,
Litchfield. Monday, died Tuesday even
ing at 10 o'clock in the Waterbury
hospital from internal hemorrhages.
J. Bruce Kremer, Democratic nation
al committeeman from Montana, was
appointed head of the speakers' bu
reau at Western Democratic national
campaign headquarters at Chicago.
A military mission consisting of of
ficers of the Swiss army wiil soon
leave Switzerland for Colombia to un
dertake the reorganization of tho
army of that South American Repub
lic. Famished and exhausted after be
ing lost on Green Mountain, near Bar
Harbor all night, the three Misses
Damrosch were found. They are
daughters of Walter Damrosch, the
New Y'ork orchestra director.
Lieut. Col. Sydney Grant ,of the
Thirteenth Coast Defence command, N.
G. N. Y., received a telegram from
Washington that participation of that
command in the coast defence ma
noevres had been cancelled.
The name of the New York Coffee
Exchange was changed to the New
Y'ork Coffee and Sugar Exchange. Su
gar transactions have assumed great
proportions on the floor of this mar
ket. BRITISH STEAMER ELEW UP
WHEN ABOUT TO CLEAR
It is Believed an Infernal Machine was
Placed Aboard Manchuria.
London, Aug. 30, 2:50 a. m. A des
patch to the Daily Mail from Copen
hagen says the British steamer Man
churia blew up and santc n Yxpile
harbor. In the Gulf of Bothnia, as she
was preparing to depart. The cor
respondent adds that it is Delieved
an infernal machine placed aboard
the steamer was the cause of the dis
in Athe
Greece Join the
WILLING TO FOLLOW FORMER PREMIER VENiZELOS
Rumanians ar?d Russians are Said to be Fighting Shoulder to
Shoulder in Furious Effort to Capture Passes in the EesI
ern Carpathians Leading Into Hungary The Serbians
Are Continuing Their Advance Toward Vetrenik and
Have Repulsed Strong Bulgarian Attacks Northwest of
Lake Ostrovo Field Marshal Von Hinednburg Has
Been Appointed Chief of the German General Staff, Vice
General Von Falkenburg, Dismissed by the Emperor.
To meet the exigencies of the situ
ation created by Rumania's entrance
into the war on the side of the en
tente a'lies. King Ferdinand has or
dered a general mobilization of his
forces and is reported to have pro
ceeded to the front personally to take
command of his army.
Unofficially advices from the Ru
manian front are to the effect that the
Rumanians are making ious ef
forts to capture passes in the eastern
Carpathians leading into Hungary and
alreadp they are declared to be fight
ing shoulder to shoulder with Rus
sian troops coming from Bukowina.
While Berlin says that Rumania's at
tempts to pierce the pass leading to
ilermannstadt and the Toerzburger
and Toemocs passes thus far have
been futile. Vienna admits that ow
ing to a "far reaching encircling move
ment by strong Rumanian forces,"
Austrian advanced detachments have
been forwd to withdraw.
What Greece's attitude will be as
a rr.Jt of Rumania joining the en
tente allies is still problematical, but
unofficial advices to London ex
press the belief that the Hellenic
kingdom will shortly throw in its lot
with the entente. A pro-entente dem
onstration in Athens passed a resolu
tion saying that if the people were
not heard in their demand that Greece
join the entente powers, "we must
take counsel as to what is to be done
to minimize the" ruin which awaits
us." The occupation by the Bul
garians of Kavajais declared to have
intensified the feelings of the Greeks,
who are said to be willing to follow
Former Premier Venizelos in any ac
tion he may advise. Venizelos i3
strongly pro-entente.
Again the official communications oi
the various belligerent powers fail to
TEMPORARY RECEIVER
FOR BOSTON & MAINE.
Judge Putnam Withdraws From the
Proceedings.
Boston, Aug. 29. After allowing an
order for atemporary receivership for
the Boston & Maine railroad, under
which he named President James H.
ITustis for the office, United States
Circut Judge William L. Putnam to
day withdrew from the case because
of a bill, which, he stated, attacked
the integrity of the court. This bill,
which was filed by Asa P. French,
counsel for .Francis V. Streeter, of
Medford. a minority stockholder, as
serted that Judge Putnam because of
his personal relations with directors of
the road, was unfit to sit in the re
ceivership proceedings. Judge Put
nam ordej-ed the bill sent to the Fed
eral District Attorney, with directions
that it be. placed before the grand
jury for investigation.
This unexpected development fol
lowed the court's ruling that the Bos
ton t Maine Minority Stockholders'
association was not entitled to in
tervene in the ease, which was based
on a petition of the Intercontinental
Rubber company of New Jersey, a
noteholder of the road, for a receiver
ship. FAY ESCAPES FROM
FEDERAL FRISON IN ATLANTA
Former German Army Officer Who
Vas Convicted of Conspiracy.
Atlanta. O., Aug. 29. Robert Fay,
said to have been a former German
army officer convicted of conspiracy
against the United r'tntes in connec
tion with munitions plots m New
York, escaped from the federal prison
here late today, with William Knob
loch, another prisoner.
Fay. who entered the prison June 23
to serve eight years and Knobloch.
sentenced at New York. May D, to
serve eighteen months for using the
mails to defraud, had been doing
electrical repair work at the prison.
Late today they walked by a guard at
one of the fites. saying they were go
ing outside to repair some arc lights.
COLLECTION ROBBED
OF 550,000 ART
Theft Becomes Known Through Warn
ing to Pawn Brokers and Art Deal
ers. New York, August 9. .V great art
collection somewhere in New Y'ork
City has been looted of objects valued
at nearly $50,000. The robbery took
place on July 29 and became general
ly known today through circulation
by the police of a circular warning
pawn brokers and dealers in antiques
and art objects to be on the lookout
for the stolen goods.
Most of the articles describeds in
the police circular are of jade and
crystal and of ancient Chinese manu
facture. , The list includes eight-three
articles, all of considerable value.
Berlin. Three prizes for tho best
boy judges of dairy cattle are offered
this year by the Berlin state fair,
amounting to $3, $3 and ?2.
Practically Dearsds That
Entente Powers
record any great battles. An attempt
by the Germans to approach British
trenches near Poziers, which was put
down by the British fire, was the only
move made by infantry on the British
lines Tuesday. There is still consid
erable artillery activity in this re
gion, however. Along the front held
by the French bad weather caused an
almost entire cessation in the opera
tions. Likewise on the eastern front from
the Riga region to the Carpathians in
Galicia the day passed without mo
mentous happenings. In the Caucaus
region near Lake Van the Russians
have gained additional successes over
the Turks.
The Serbians in the Macedian thea
tre are continuing their advance to
ward Vetrenik and also have repulsed
strong Bulgarian attacks northwest of
Lakes Ostrovo. Bombardments are
proceeding in the Lake Doiran region
and along the banks of the Vardar
river.
Tho Austrians are still shelling the
Italian positions in the lower Isonzo
region, tho upper Cordevole valley
and in the valleys of the But and Fel
la rivers. In the Posina valley, on
Monte Cimone and near Aviso the
Austrians have been forced to give
further ground before the attacks of
the Italians. Notable among the
gains of the Italians is the capture
of Monte Cauriol, at an altitute of
8,000 feet in the Aviso region.
Field Marshal von Hindenburg, who
recently was placed in command of
all the" German forces on the Russian
front, has now been appointed chief
of the German general staff in suc
cession to General Von Falkenburg,
who has been dismissed by the em
peror. THREE IRISH PAPERS
RAIDED BY MILITARY
Editors Charged With Publishing Ar
ticles to Cause Dissatisfaction.
Tralee, Ireland, Aug. 29. Police and
soldiers today seized the machinery
and plant where the newspapers Nubi
aner, Kerryman and Liberator were
published The authorities acted under
a warrant issued by General Sir John
Maxwell, commander of the forces in
Ireland, charging the newspapers with
publish on August 19, an article cal
culated to cause disaffection. The
managing director of the newspapers,
named Griffin, was arrested during the
Dublin rebellion last Easter, but later
i was released.
NANTUCKET CONNECTED WITH
MAINLAND BY TELEPHONE
New Cable of N. E. T. & T. Co.
Opened With Exercises in Boston.
New Bedford, Mass., Aug. 29. The
island of Nantucket, hitherto depend
ent on the telegraph for wire com
munication, was communicated with
the mainland by telephone tonight.
The new cable of the New England
Telephone and Telegraph Company,
which extends about 24 miles from
Nantucket to the island of Martha's
Vineyard and thence to the Buz
zard's Bay shore, was opened with
exercises in Boston, Nantucket, Med
ford and this city, all connected by
telephone.
KING CONSTANTINE CF
GREECE IS I N DISPOSED.
Still Suffering from Effects of Opera
tion to Relieve Pleurisy.
Paris, Aug. 25, 9. S3 a. m. A Havas
despatch from Athens says King Con
r.tantine was unatblc to receive yester
day a delegation or' the Greek liberal
party which had asked for an audience,
as tho king was still suffering from a
slight operation which he underwent
on Sunday
King Constantino is suffering the ef
fects of the removal in June last of a
portion of his tenth rib, made neces
sary by an attack of pleurisy.
ADMINISTRATION REVENUE
BILL IN THE SENATE.
Debate Was Chiefly on Corporation
Tax Features and Wine Tax.
Washington. Aug. 29. Debate in the
senate today on the administraton
revenr bill was devoted chiefly to the
corporation tax features and the wine
tax.
Many admendments were defeated,
including several designed to exempt
corporations from paying taxes on in
comes from subsicidiary concerns.
Movements of Steamships.
London, Aug. 28. Arrived, steamer
Ascania, 'Montreal.
London. Aug. 2 3. Arrived, steamer
Andania, New York.
Liverpool, Aug. 29. Arrived, steamer.
I Tuscania. New York. Sailed, steamer
Philadelphia, New York.
