sp -V ''' '
MAILS
From 6m Francisco
Tenyo Mam, Sept.
For San Francisco
Sonoma, Sept. S
From Vancouver:
Niagara, 8cpL .
Fof Vancouver
llaknra, Sept. 15.
rrV
F.veninr Bulletin. Eut 1SS2, No. CT.67
Hawaiian Star, Vol. XXIV, No. 7C03
12 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 1916. 12 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CEZT3
n r
1 1
o u uubuu
r f rrs 7 7
Ik-:
LC LA XJl V 1
1
a
0)0)
UUlJlj(Uu:ic,Lj
L liii.i.Jlu
ciics, is r.:;;nT
Paris Hears Latest of Allies Has
Forced Entrance Through
Mountains to Hungary
ALBANIAN CONTINGENT
DISEMBARKS AT SALON I Kl
Fresh Reinforcements for En
tente Armies Battling in
.Macedonia
f Aateclatti Prwd ty WrU VbIi)
PARIS, France, i Aug. 33 Dee
patches received here today, say that
Rumanian soldiers have successfully
. pierced the Carpathian mountains and
Transylvania Alps and, are pouring
into Hungary. ,
The Petit ParUIen'has a despatch
which declares that the Rumanians
have forced an entrance to Transyl
vania and occupied two : Important
cities," :;.'-.."
. The Bulgarians engaged In battle
with the Greeks . today In Grecian
Macedonia and . seized the town of
Drama. .'.
ALBANIANS BEADY TO
OIN BALKAN CAMPAIGN
SALON I Kl, Greece, Aug. 30 An Al
banian contingent' disembarked here
today and Is ready to Join the Allies
In Macedonia. '
RMflHARPST RFinifJPS AT
FIRST RUMANIAN VICTORY
PARIS, France, : Au 20. Des
patches - from Bucharest, tell of the
wild scenes as the men leave for the
. front, while their-fellows left behind
for the time being, cheering furiously
the departing soldiers, and the city, a
. mass of color in honor of. the fare
. wei. . . .i'
: . The news "that the- passes leading;
Inta nrrrtry fsi'bcen pierced by the
RumiiUa advance guards, and that
. the rates to the enemy 's country stood
- c;en when announced In the cafes and
puDUS V'-ccs q uucnaresi ana oiaer
Rumania;! citle3,-brought about scenes
of the greatest enthusiasm. ' People
wpnf wild m-ith tor- althoueh the
papers of the country warned them
C that the real fighting Is still to come,
and advised them to prepare for a long
hard struggle. ' ; r ,v4vv '
Greeks Grow Restive
Despatches froin: Athens,- declare
that the Greeks are becoming more
and more Incensed by the continued
1 invasion oi meir lermury oj uiv our
gars, uia wu iucj. wo uu
. ed to follow , any suggestions that
former premier Venlzelos may make.
They are particularly angered by the
occupation ot Kavala, a Greek city
near the Agean sea out of which "Greek
troops were xorcea a iew uaya ago.
PARIS.; France, Aug. 30. The
v French . today- launched a heavy at
tack on the German , positions of the
Fleury sector and made further pro
gress, ; ; ; . .-.v
RRITlH AUXILIARY '
DUKE OF ALBANY, MAY
BE SUNK BY SUBMARINE
- The followlag cablegram from offi
cial German sources was received to
'. day:;;' ; . ;- '
.-German admiralty, announces that
cn August 24 a German , submarine
tank an English auxiliary cruiser In
the northern part of the North Sea.
' vva. m A A f ss nnflftttlt 1 V
- A UC U&n o m -
this was the Duke of Albany, reported
". lost by the British." . . . ' ''".
I SB I '
JOHNSON AND BOOTH
IN CALIFORNIA RACt
(attocUt4 Pri r rdral WirlM)
SAN FRANCISCO, CaL, Aug. 30. ;
; The primary elections heia throughout i
California yesterday were close, and i
both Governor Johnson and Willis H. I
Booth of Los Angeles, tne two canai-j
dates for the Republican nomination, j
are'claimlng to have cs-ISd the state.
v i ne vote was iigui, uiu iuc iiiot j
precincts out of 6443 give Booth 21,-1
697 and Johnson 25,650 for the Re- j
publican . nomination, w ith Johnson j
leading in the north and' Booth in the
: SOUth. :- '.
Johnson is unopposed In his candi
dacy for the Progressive nomination
and Patton has no opponents for thej
Democratic nomination. l
sat ft i iii rs i i imrn
-TO BOOST SANTA CRUZ
4 -f
Santa Cruz is likely to have
-v "Hawaii Day" in Tne near future, -f
The plan is; being agitated, it
-f! includes getting Hawaiian sing- -f
, ers, organizing a ukulele club -f
- from Santa Cruz folk who play
the little Instrument, persuading
some. Hawaiian swimmers to en-
f ter a tournament and secure the
attendance of Hawaiians and Cal-
-f Ifornlans from all over the state.
7 . - . - - - k a a a a a
tttttntttttt tt rr t j
way is mm
ORHMOM
BOUROQK RANKS
uovernor s uomerence wun
McCandless Faction Com
mittee May Bring Fusiorv ;
"THROWN DOWN-TWICE,
; ; HE WATCHFULLY WAITS
Organization Now Anxious That
Chief Executive Shair Help
in Campaign . - .
M IIIML
' Harmony, plenty of it. In the ranks
cf the Democrats, and a possible fu
sion of the so-called Pinkham : and
McCandlesa-Wllson factions, is prom
ised if Governor Pinkham adheres to
his views on party Hatters as express
ed on Monday to a special committee
or Bourbons appointed to interview
him cn his attitude toward the local
organization."--'" - "-. j ,
The recent passage of a resolution
pointing out the needs of harmony in
the , Bourbon ranks as a vital asset
during the coming campaign, brought
a beat the apopintment oi a commit
tee1 consicting of M. H. Sanders, Solo
mon ,MeheuIa, Daniel Kamahu, Wil
liam "Ackerman.- William Kaal and
Samuel Hardesty to visit the chief
executive.; What transpired at the
cenference with , the governor was
made public at a Joint meeting of the
territorial central - Committee and
county.; committee in Phoenix hall
Tuesday evening.
Governor Pinkham, unable to be at
his offlcer received the committee at
his home, where he has been confined
with a slight illness. The governor
kept to his bed (luring the conference.
The governor told the committee,
according to the, report at the Tues
day meeting, that he had 'tried to
come into the local Democratic organ
ization and that, he ) had . made over
tures to the party leaders tending to
. .." . . - . . .r
" f '" f Continued on page twol
GERMAN OFFICIAL
'CABLEGRAMS
1
GERMAN .HEADQUARTERS, - Aug.
23. In Somme district. In evening and
night, strong enemy forces after copi
ous artillery preparation made fresh
attempts to break our lines north of
the river. . Several British storming
attacks ' against front of Thlepval,
Mouquet Fe, Delvllle wood, and Gef
fouy, and French against the fronts
of Maurepas and Clery. The attacks
failed after hand-to-hand combats and
by counter attacks.
Southwest of Moquet Fe and In Del
vllle wood, combats still going on In
small party v trenches. Lively ; artil
lery activity in evening hours on both
sides of canal and east Meuse. Else
where on the west front, no incidents
of importance. : t ; ' ; r
f Hindnburga front: Near Lenneau
den, a patrol brought in two officers
and 37 men. Northeast of Svinitschuy,
an Austro-HuAgary troop repulsed
Russian detachments.
Archduke Carl's front: North of
Dniester, Russian - forces attacked.
Enemy's success, at Beming complete
ly counterbalanced by nightly counter
attack. Further northward between
Tomstobaby and Seavalov, troops pre
pared for an attack were impeded by
curtain fire and forced to abandon
trenches. ' ' .
. ' In the Carpathians, 1 Russian at
tacks against a ridge northwest ' of
Kulul and Vlpczyna were repulsed. On
Soebenburgen frontier,- Rumanian
prisoners were brought in.
. 1 Balkans, Noglena front: Bulgarians
conquered heights south of Seborsko,
Ceganska and Planlna. Serbian coun
ter-attacks failed, v
Yesterday's Report
GERMAN H tfADQUARTERS, Aug.
29. Western war theater: In numer
ous sectors on the front, hostile fire
was more active. On Somme river,
artillery duels are very violent North
of Somme, English attacks were re
peated between Thlepval and Pozi
eres with conaiderable forces. - They
failed under sanguinary hostile losses.
Hand to hand fighting continues viol
ent north of Ovillers.
In Delville for-.
est southeast of Gulllemont several
hand grenade attacks were repulsed.
Right of Meuse, French attacked be
tween Thiaumont work and Fleury
and in the mountain forests. Attack
ing waves broke down in artillery and
Infantry machine gun fire.
Minor hostile advances south and
southeast of St Mlhiel were without
success. '' ; 1.-
Three hostile aeroplanes were shot
down In an air engagement one south
of Arras, two near Bapaume, a fourth
east of St , Quentln fell undamaged
into bur hands. ; " '
f Eastern war theater: Situation is
generally unchanged. In some places,
fire activity increased somewhat
West of Stochod near Rudkal Czer
vlczcze, infantry engagements going
on. North of Dniester, feeble Russian
attacks were repulsed,' more than 100
made prisoners. : '
In Carpathians, fighting takes place
with Russo-Rumanian vanguards
Near Burzson on Grilalipa, a Russian
aeroplane in an air engagement was
forced to land. . :
Rumania's Soldiers Go Singing Into War
Mi
-1
' Rumania's picturesque soldiers are now In the great war. The photograph above shows Rumanian infantry
men, said to be as fine-looking as any soldiers in' Europe. : They are dashing fighters and . during the past two
years have been drilled to a high state of efficiency;; f :' 1 ; ' L
s mmm
iiuii
aviation Make
Mainland " Water Champions
' i and Duke Present; Talk
on Aero Cluh;
Members of the Honolulu Ad Club
Fere "in the swim" and "up in the
air"; at the luncheon today. Swim
ming champions were the guests ;of
honor and the Aero Club project wa3
brought up by Lieut R. C. Holliday in
a brief talk.
There are two world's champions in
Hawaii at presents One of them at
tended the Ad Club banquet,, and this
Champion, .Duke Kahanamoku, lead
ihginatator1 of the globe, assisted in
welcoming 4 Ludy Langer, Tedf ord
Pann and Herbert Vollmer. The
three American champions thanked
the members of the Ad Club for the
feception and voted that Honolulu
to-aa an. ideal place to. visit .
President Farrington , in welcbmin g
the ' mermen said that the Ad Club
is always in favor of boosting good,
Clean athletics. He . remarked: that
any sport which brought out a type
of. mea with good minds and even
nerves, combined with strong muscles,
Is moref than worth while. "We are
In favor of them and want them to
go the limit but if there is only one
championship to go around we want
it1 to remain right here in Hawaii.
Perhaps Duke will attend to that, he
commented. ; ,v : :
TO NEW FREIGHT
RATES OF
Parker Ranch Trustee Requests
Utilities Commission For
: Hearing; First Protest
For the purpose of considering the
first protest filed against the propos
ed new schedulepf freight and pas
C3nger rates foririulated by the Inter-
Tci.) ctoam Vav1?At1nn fomnany.
ud Intended to go into effect Septem
ber.!, day after tomorrow, the public
utilities commission is holding a spe
cial meeting this afternoon. It be
gan, at 1 o'clock.
'Alfred W. Carter, manager and
trustee of the t Parker Ranch on Ha
waii, one of the most extensive ship
pers of cattle, sheep and horses in
the territory, is the protesfant His
letter of protest reached the commis
sion late Tuesday, a short time after
it had adjourned. The special meet
ing was called for this afternoon be
cause or the short time left In which
to consider the new tariffy
Carter, through his attorneys,
Holmes & Olson, requests the com
mission to give him time for consid
eration of the proposed new schedule
of freight rates. He asks the com
mission to defer the time of allowing
it to become effective, until he can
submit his case and state his objec
tions. The proposed rates would In
crease the cost of shipping the
ranch's livestock, beef and mutton to
Honolulu.
AD CLUB TOPICS
CARTER OBJECTS
IIOiiOLULU FORTOTELY SITUATED
III CASE STfiliiE BE NOT AVERTED
Sugar Has Mostly Been Shipped, Army Has Supplies for Six
Months and Freight Waiting Shipment From Sari Francisco
Piers Would Carry City Comfortably for Some Time to Come
; So far as its chief Industry, ' the
production of sugar, Is concerned, Ha
waii will find Itself fortunately placed
if a: railroad -strike shall occur. By
far the' majojpart of Its, crop .has
been already, marketed and a part of
the balance will go to San Francisco
and will not need railroad transporta
tion to reach its destination.
Secretary Allen SM. Nowell of the
Sugar Factors Company said this
morning that more than 418,000 tons
of sugar had already been shipped
and arrived at destination.' There was
14,000 tons which . arrived in San
Francisco the middle of the month and
should reach New York before Labor
Day. :
"So -far as the companies of the
Sugar Factors . Company are concern
ed," said Nowell, "there Is only about
29,000 tons that would be , affected
even if there be a strike and ; it last
as leng as two months. There are
other sugars in small amounts that
can well wait until in December or
until shipments from the new 'crop be
gin. JThere is , now on, the water
about 13,600 tons. Yes, the sugar in
dustry will be fortunate if a strike
Comes that it did not materialize
sooner." : . '
There was a report that the last
two sugar shipments by the American
Hawaiian boats will ' go through the
canal and if so the amount of sugar
affected will be still further reduced.
It could not be learned that ths has
been definitely determined but It is
known that it Is under consideration
and that if a strike . actually occurs,
this course is likely to be pursued. -Army
In Good Position '
Whether the railroad strike on the
mainla.id lasts a week or six months
is not bothering the regular, army on
Oahu. According to officials of the
' NEW YORK STOCK -
MARKET TODAY
-
Following are the closing prices of
stocks on the New York market to
day, sent by the Associated Press ove
the Federal Wireless:
Yester-
Today. day.
Al?ska Gold 12 13'
American Smelter 96 97
American Sugar Rfg.. 103'2 W9
American Tel. & Tel.... 130 130
Anaconda Copper . . 84 85
Atchison 102 102?
Baldwin Loco. 76'4 77lA
Baltimore & Ohio .. 84 85
Bethlehem Steel t 484v-2
Calif. Petroleum .. 184 17
Canadian Pacific 177 177
C, M, & St. P. (St. Paul) 93 93l2
Colo. Fuel Alron.... .. 4V2 7VZ
Crucible Steel 74 75'2
Erie Common 36'a 36'2
General Electric 169!2 169
General Motors 575 . . .
Great Northern Pfd.... 116'2 117
Inter. Harv N. J 114 114
Kennecott Copper 48 49
Lehigh R. R 78'4 79
New York Central. 102 1031.
Pennsylvania 55' 55
Ray Consol. 24'i 24
Southern Pacific 97 98
Studebaker 124'2 122
Tennessee Copper ..... 23' 24
Union Pacific 140 140
U. S. Steel , 96'8 96
U. S. Steel Pfd......... 117 118
Utah 81 82
Western Union 944 95
Westinghouse . .... 582 58! 'i
Bid. Ex-dividend. Unquoted.
depot quartermaster's office tday.
there are rations enough on band in
the army . storehouses. v to feed all
troops enr this island, under" ordinary
conditions, .foe 6 ..months, and Ja ftdd4
tlon, 3uificient . stores are kept for
sale to army post exchanges to last
for three month. ' ;
Among the ration articles : raised,
manufactured, or grown in the terri
tory, and purchased locally, .so that
the strike would have absolutely no
effect on them, are fresh beef and
mutton, fresh potatoes, coffee, gran
ulated sugar, fish and numerous other
Items. Enough flour Is also carried
to supply Oahi troops for 6 months
even If the supply were cut off.
However, a strike would materially
interfere with shipments of supplies
and materials from the. mainland to
the Hawaiian department . Shipments
to Honolulu :-fo... the army from .all
sources, transports and Matson steam
ers, range from 78,0000 212,000
pounds a month. In the fiscal year
from July 1, 1915, to June 30,' 191S,
the d3pot quartermaster's office re
ceived a grand total from the main
land, on all boats, including trans
ports, of 137,000,000 pounds. The lowest
monthly shipment arriving here from
th9 mainland was 78,000 pounds In
August 1915, and the highest 212,000
pounds in February, 1916. ;
Would Affect Canneries Seriously." :
Although hot greatly concerned
over the threatened mainland railway
strike, pineapple canners admitted to
day that the walkout if materially
prolonged, would be felt by their companies.-
'.' ';v
L. E. Arnold, superintendent of the
Hawaiian Pineapple Company, thinks
that tt( strike will last only a short
time, even if it comes, and be .hopes
it will not come; -
"If the strike continued indefinite
ly' 'he says, vthe movement of can
ned pineapple, especially to the east
ern states, would certainly lessen and
undoubtedly the coast receiving sta
tions and our storing space here would
become congested.
"Congestion would be about the
only bad effect it would have on us,
however. Our rush season is past and
we are only working half days now
or full days with half crews."
Will P. Thomas, president of the
Thomas Pineapple Company, says a
cessation of freight shipments In the
r.tates Would seriously affect his con
cern. The entire 19J 6 output of the
Thomas cannery is sold, he says, and
shipping Instructions, mostly from
eastern or interior states, have been
received. ' Especially noticeable would
the discontinuation of railway service
be felt now; since so many freight
steamers running between San Fran
cisco and New York have Been called
into the Atlantic for munitions. '
"Pineapples have been piling up on
us after canning more extensively
than ever before, due to shortage of
bottoms out of Honolulu," says
Thomas, "and if this strike should en
due for some time we'd be walled in
here with cases."
Thomas says the strike probably
would net advance the 'retail price of
canned pineapples in the states un
less it continued longer than the wild,
est predictions because a large am
ount of the 1916 crop has already been
sold and chipped to the states.
F. W. Macfarlane president of Lib
by. McNeill & Libby, was not in his
office when called iy the Star-Bulletin
relative to the effects of the
threatened. strike, nor was Willlain L.
(Continued on page two)
U. S. GOVERNMENT MAY TAKE
CONTRALTO PREVENT WANT
IN SOME OF LARCE CITES
Both Sides, Grim With Determina
tion, Prepare For Walkout on Mon-day---Wilson
May Appeal Direct to
Leaders-Court Injunctions Started
to Head Off Break
(AiaoAtid Fru Smiet by Fdril TTirtlm) - ' ;
WASHINGTON. I. (, Aug. 30. With both sides in the rail
road controversy pri ra with determination, the nation faces a short
age in'food sirpplieH if the strike ia called nextMonday morning.
Government control of food supplies ia possible if the roada are
unable to carry supplies and it becomes evident that in the large
cities or elsewhere the population 'is threatened with famine. Al
ready in many cities the situation is being canvassed by municipal
authoritlesr who are concerned over the outlook, a
Nation Faces Meat Shortage in
Event of Strilie, Say Chicago Ihn
CHICAGO, 111.; Aug. 30. The nation faces not only danger but
certainty of a meat shortage in the event that a railroad strike ia
tailed throughout the country. ..-.'.
A summary of statements by packers, jobbers, wholesalers and
retailers shows that if a strike were called, and the vast flow of
cattle, sheep and" swine from the grazing and .stock-raising, states
were stopped, the supply in this city would last but three days. . ..
The nackers keei little livestock on hand. The Tarda would be
emptied within a few hours and the nearby supplies soon exhausted.
Stockyards officials who have given' much thought to the situation
say, that in half & week, fresh meats would be entirely, gone and tha
refrigerated ami packed goods would be perilously near exhaustion,
reckoning at the present rate of consumption. ' 0 -1 ' . .
in ew i oni roi ce r repare to i ane . :
Control of Food Supply
NEW YOKK, X. Y.? Aug. 30. Alarmed at the possible short
age in food supplies which the metropolis is facingj the city authori
ties are taking steps for municipal , control "of the fod supply of
Greater New York; With Mayor Mitchel'g approval und under the
general supervision of 1'olice Commissioner Arthur . Woods, the
police are prepared to assume control the moment it becomes cer
tain that the railroad employes wilt quit.
A systematic canvass of dealers in food supplies is being made
and municipal administration of retail establishments planned.
piy is cut off, Fay the authorities.
The milk dealers declare that
iiirauriiiiig, infji win auiitrre tw
Wilson
May
Appeal
to Get Strike Order Rescinded
WASHINGTON, P. C., Aug. 30. Both the railroad executives
and the employes are preparing for the railroad strike ordered for
Monday, September 4, at 7 o'clock. The men are getting ready to
quit and the railroads to continue operations with strikebreakers, if
possible, ' .'
President Wilson is attempting - to persuade the , brotherhoods,
who have ordered the strike, to postpone the execution of the order
or rescind it altogether, until Congress can act. He points out that
Congress will enact such legislation as will safeguard the interests
of the men. v , ':" ' r . ".
The president may appeal to the workers themselves to direct
their leaders to postpone the actual execution of the strike order.
The leaders say that no power on earth except a satisfactory
settlement can avert the strike on Monday, and that they have no
power to rescind the order that has been given.
As an indication of possible methods for checking the strike, a
local court in Nebraska has enjoined the Order of Railway Conduct
(rs from calling a strike on the Union Pacific road.
This points the way to what may. be done elsewhere. It i
intimated that similar injunctions are possible in other states and
that the employes may be compelled to remain at their posts.
The senate committee on interstate commerce adopted a reso
lution this morning calling for hearings on the proposed railroad
legislation on Thursday. This follows the recommendations by thp
president in his message yesterday and the proposals of Senator
New lands. .:r .
Both sides are invited to appear at the hearings. ; -Many
railroads today declared embargoes on perishable freight.
so that they will have none in transit when the strike order takps
effect Thousands of tons, of shipments have been refused by the
railroads under orders from their traffic managers.. '.
The; roads are also warning passengers that 'there - may be
troublesome delays unless the passengers arrived at destination oa
or before Sunday night. Passengers buying tickets calling for trips
taking them into Monday are told
tion cannot be guaranteed. . . ,
! FREIGHT KATE INCREASE POSTPONED.
The Interstate Commerce Commission today approved an or
der postponing until September
transcontinental freight rates. - , ;
" Another precaution against possible delay and trouble in tt. c v
ing passengers was taken today' when 5 the war department 'ord :r.
to their home posts 28 Coast Artillery companies which hav? I
on duty at the "Mexican border. National guardsmen will : ; '
the artillerymen, who will be hurried.back to their posts i. . .
strike date arrives. .
. . ' : t
in the event of a shortage in milk
iiu? juiit-jf oi utiuira iiibi. ;
to
that speedy arrival at destina
30 the proposed increase in tl
