Dot Preparedness
A Times-Dispatch Daily Fea
ture for Both Old and Young
Sidjmonii 0TintcS ?
Do You Know Jiggs?
Get Acquainted With Him in
"Bringing Up Father"
6th YEAR
voll'mk its
M M iii .ii Z42
RICHMOND, VA., WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 1916. ? TWELVE PAGES.
wiiatiikil
pa?;k f>
-UNSETTLED
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
Together, They Are Striking
Furious Blows at Com
mon Enemy.
iuSTRIANS ARE DRIVEN BACK
irccce Expected Soon to Throw
In Iler Lot Witli
Entente.
l-OXUfi,V, -AuguM -J'.t. King IVrdi
lat.d ?f Hot!mani;i lias ordered a gen
eral mobilly.utlon of hi?- force.**, and Is
Imported to have eoni! to tho front
l>ersona I |v tn take command of iiis
? i ni y.
Tho Rouma nians already ar- reported
Jo be making furious efforts to capturo
|>ah*es in the Kastern Carpathians
leading into Hungary, and are declared
|o he fighting- shoulder to (shoulder with
Russian troops coming from Buko
|vlna.
irs'riiia.\ ? iu:ti?i:mknt
ADMirn:ii ??v vii:\>a
While Berlin says that lloumsnia's
littempts to piTi.'f t ? i o passes have
Ijooh futile, Vienna admit*- that, mvlni;
f-0 .1 far-reaching ci ? ircllng move
rnent by strong Roumanian forces,"
(Austrian advanced detachments have
[been forced to withdraw.
What Greece's attitude will he as a
?result of Roumanian Joining the en
tente allies |. still problematical, hut
InnotlU-lal advices express the belief
?that she soon will throw in her lot
I with the* pf?t onto.
A pro-entente demonstration in Athens
?passed a resolution saying that If the
Ipeople were not heard it, their demand
llhat Greece Join the entente, "we must
Italic counsel as to what is to ho done
[l?. minimize the ruin which aw.it* u?"
Occupation b> ,|? liulgarians of
IKavala Is declared to have intensified
the feelings or u,e. w.,1() ;irc
said to be willing to follow former
N'remler VenizeloK r) an> a.-tion he
I may advise. . Venlxelos is st-ronglv pro
| entente.
. Nom- ?!"? he 1 li g,.-rents Hums
great battles. An attempt by the Ger
mans to approach British trenchos
near Poz-leres, stopped by the British,
was the only move made by infantry
on the British line* to-day. There is
still considerable artillnrv aetivity |n
this region, however Along the front
held by the French, bad weather halted
! operations.
it t ssi a \s ?; \ i \ KI It-I ll i :it
si ( < i;ssi:,s ovi:h tliiks
On the eastern front, fro.,, ,he R|Ka
I region to the Carpathians. In Gallcla,
tie da> passed without momentous
happenings.
In the Caucasus region, near Bake
an. the Russians have gained addi
tional suet epses ovei the Turks.
rhe Serbians in the Macedonian
theater are continuing their advance
toward Vetrenlk. and also have rel
pulsed strong Bulgarian .marks north
west of Bake Ostrovo. Bombardments
are proceeding it. the I.ake Bolran re.
gion and along the hanks of the V.r
elm* River.
The Austria ns are still shelling the
Italian positions in the lower isonzo
region, the upper Cordevole Valley and
in the valley- of the nut and Fella
\r ."'o. ,h'' ''osi"a Valley, on
-lonte Clmotte and near the Aviso the
Austrlnns have b. on forced to K've
-urther ground. Rotable among the
gains of the Italians |? t))A Paplupe
? * Csiuriol, an altitude of
S.000 feet.
VO\ IIIMIKMM H?. >| \ |?|;
1 VI-: It A I. STAFF'
f A,,KUM "f' rvla linden).?
r-lcld Marshal von litndenbt.rg has been
>nppo,nted :Jy the Kaiser chief of the
[ German gt?eral staff. ,o succeed Von
| Falkenhayn. who has beet, dismissed
This announcement was made to-night.
appointment of Field Marshal
voi. Hindenbtircr as chief of the fior
man general staff i, ,he n.ost moment
| ous change made i? the Kaiser's mili
tary command since the outbreak of
the war. It comes at the most critical
moment the Teutonic empires have
seen since the great conflict iM.g?r,
yen military critics in tjie allied conn
tries have heet, frank to concede
throughout the two years of war t! a;
Von Illndenhurg was the ablest mili
f tary genius at the Kaiser's command.
In Germany he has been idealized as a
national hero since his victory over the
Russians in the Masurian swamps
earlv in the war. and with his victori
O"" weep through Western Russia last
r"1 ,f' won 'he admiration of tite world
There has been a strong movement
a fool in Germany for many months
with a view to prevailing upon the
Kaiser to place Illndenhurg at the
head of the general stair, and power
ful influences have been brought to
bear toward that end.
German newspapers, copies nf which
reached this country recently, indi
cated "between the lines" or the com
ment by military critics that I linden
burgs presence in Russia in actual
Uommand of the German armies in the
Vast was more essential than anything
else. It was pointed out that It was
chiefly his presence there and the fear
of his plans that kept Koumania from
siding with the allies, despite the vic
tories of General Rru#siloiY. Curious
ly enough, (he change is mad- a day
after Roumnula has entered the war.
General von Falkenhayn has been
chief of the general staff since n,e re
tirement early in the war of Count
Holmuth von Moltke, whoso "Illness"
was generally attributed to the out
come of the Marne battle. The ap-l
polntment of Tllndenhurg In Falken
J. hayn's place Is believed to he less as
??punishment" for the latter than a
reward of the former. Coupled with
*the necessity of having the ablest man
?at tho head of the stnff Is that ofl
^strengthening the morale of thol
firmies and tho public, a purpose bo-1
Ileved to ho well served by this change.
Does Politics Figure
in Impending Strike ?
' __
INpeelnl to ThcliineN-DlMpMtcli.l
I). AiiKiiNt 1!0.?
Ilp|irr?rnlli(lvr Cnrlrr tilnss. of Vlr
utiilii, commenting on the Presi
dent's ineMKHKr ??> t'oiiRress to-day.
Mild to-nl?;ht:
??II wn? n very clenr. pointed nnil
dispassionate ntnlfinrnl uf the slfiui
tlon. "Ithout prejudice to either side
lo tlie I'onlrovrrKjr, If there Is imy
nnnTter to tlic President** rcnNoiiln^;,
I Mould like to know what it I*
Since the rnIIron?l employee* pnsl
tlvely rejeet arbitration, noil nlnec
the President lias no coiiNtltatlonnl
or Inivlul nuthorlty to compel arlil
t rntlon. It ** on 1(1 seem n MitH'kerv
for the rnllronil mnnnKrm to rest
their entire propoatil for the nrijust
"lent of the dispute upon the single
I Issue of Immeillnte nrhi trillion, for
thnt Inevitably mean* n ntrike. in
j voiiseijiiciiccs of Hhlvli to this eoun
j. try nt thin time would he wor*e tliiin
?v'nr. What else eon Id the President
| do In the circumstance* hut to rec
1 minuend the legislation he litis rrv
ommenilcd.
"There Is n well-dcflncd Inipren
slou In Washington thnt certain
people ?lo not want nn> adjustment
of thin dlflleulty. hut prefer to linve
[ ? "trlke In order to furnlMli the ?e
pulillenn party vrltli nn Issue In the
preslilcn t iti I campaign."
RETALIATION MEASURE
I FOB BRITAIN PROPOSER
To He Knfnreetl If Discrimination
AKalnst American Tobacco
Interests Continue*.
! LA.VSI.Vfi SAXCTIOXS STKP
j Secretary Approve*. I'lan When It Is
l*ut 1 p to Him |?y Martin, Swnn
*nn, Flood, Wiit.scin mid Otiiers.
' James Preparing Amendment.
WASHINGTON, August 29 ?Follow
j lnik j confereiifc between Secretary of
State IiisIhk. a scijft; of lohjioi'o grow
ers from Murvlaiifl. Virginia and Ken
tucky and a group uf Senators and
Congressmen, the announcement was
authorized that an amendment to tlio
pending revenue 1>S 11 will bo offered
to-morrow providing for retaliatory
measures if Great Britain persists in
discriminating against American to- j
banco interest.*.
Senator James, of Kentucky, was au
thorized at a second conference this
afternoon to prepare the amendment
and to introduce it to-morrow morn
ing. The Kentuckian Is a member of
the Finance < 'oinmittec. The second
conference was participated in by
Senator James, Senator Martin, of Vir
ginia. and Representative Flood, of
Vire in in.
? The proposed amendment is in line
i with tlie declaration made by Senator
j Martin at the initial meeting of the
j tobacco interests in his oftlco yesterday
1 afternoon. At that time be came out
j vigorously in favor r.f action that
j would compel Great Britain to respect
the rights of American tobacco grow
ers. Before acting upon the Vir
ginian's suggestion, however. the
growers and their congressional friends
decided to cull upon Secretary Lansing
and ascertain his views. The secre
tary unhesitatingly approved the re
taliation plan.
John D. Oglesby, of Lynchburg, was
one of the spokesmen at the Lansing
j conference. The delegation which
visited the State Department was ac
companied by Senators Smith, of
Maryland; Martin and Swanson, of Vir
ginia. and Senators James and Beek>
ham. of Kentucky; Representative
David J Lewis, of Marvlnnd, and Rep
resentatives Flood and Watson, of
Virginia.
Senator .lames, as a member of the
Finance Committee, having in charge
the revenue hill, will try to have that
committee approve his tobacco amend
ment. in any event, it will be intro
duced to-morrow, and will be supported
by all the Senators from the tobacco
States and many others as well. Tlio
exact terms of the measure were not
given out to-day, but in a general way
it is known that it will authorize the
President to retaliate against Great
Britain unless discriminatory restric
tions against American tobacco are re
moved.
COLE L. BLEASE IN LEAD
Apparently I.sicks Necessary Msijority,
nml There Will lie Secoml
Primary.
COLUMBIA. S. C., August '.'ft.?With
about one-third of the expected vote
heard from uno flirt ally in Hie State
witie Democratic primary, indications
fin- to-night thai Cole I.. Rlease will
tiuike a second race for the guber
natorial nomination against Itichard 1
Manning, the incumbent, or Robert A.
Cooper.
Blease has a long lead over his op
ponents, but apparently lacks the ma- i
jorlty necessary for nomination. Cooper
is slightly ahead of Governor Manning,
and may get the place in the soeor.j
primary.
The vote at Oi.tO stood: Blease, 17,or>'i;
Cooper, 10,713; Manning, 10.fit2; J. II.
Deschamps. 170; .lohn T. Duncan, !?fi.
For other State ofllces the indications
were that A. .1. Bethea, lieutenant-gov
ernor, had been nominated over Dr. K.
C. L. Adams, his opponent; Sam T. Car
ter apparently was renominated for
State treasurer over 1>. W. McLaurin,
and William Banks Dove seemed to bo
certain of nomination for secretary o'
State over W. O. Wlghtman.
For railroad commissioner the indi
cations were that another primary
would be necessary, with James Cannier
and Albert S. Fant as contenders. G.
M. HamptKn, the incumbent, is nut o'
the pice. Other State officials wore un
opposed.
Returns from lite congressional con
tests, whero six of the Stato's Con
gressmen havo opposition, wcro measer
to-njght. # ?
DASHED ON ROCKS
Driven Ashore at San Domingo
by Ground Swell, Vessel
Is Total Loss.
TWENTY MEN ARE DROWNED
Members of Crew Were Return
ing to Ship From Shore
Leave in Motorboat.
SAN' I ?OMINCJO. Anttusl 29.?The
United States armored cruiser Memphis J
was driven ashore on th?- I'oi'ks of the
ouUr harbor to-day hv a pnal anil
sudden Rrniin'l swell. It is said that
many lives were lost as a result of
the disaster. AH tires under tl??;
boilers of the Memphis were extin
guished by the inrush of water. The
United States punboat Castlne managed
to escape by putting to sea.
ADMIII VI. I'OMI SAYS SHU*
WILL IIK TOT A I. LOSS
WASHINGTON*. August 23.?Rear
Ad m Ira I Pon<1. at Kan Dominpo City,
cabled tiie Navy Department to-night
that the armoreil cruiser. Memphis,
^wepl upon the rocks i>y a heavy sea
in tiie .harbor there, would be a total
loss, and that, although it was ex
pected all on board would be saved,
twenty men returning to the ship from
shore leave In a motorboat had been
drowned.
It was said that the crew of the
j Memphis is being disembarked.
i The admiral's dispatch follows:
"Memphis driven ashore by heavy
I sea. Sari Potningo f'lty, west of lipht
| house, at 4:3" P. M She is lying . lose
under bluff: lias lines ashore and is
petting crew off. Heavy sr.i came up
I suddenly and ship was unable to pet
up steam in tune to save herself.
Twenty men of liberty party drowned
on way back to ship. Castine (pun
boat) dragged close in. hut did not
strike, and cot out to sea. No other
casualties known. Memphis will be
total loss. Expcct to save everybody
on board."
The United States cruiser Memphis
formerly was the Tennessee. Her
name was changed on May 25 last.
Recently she has been rioinp duty In
San Domingo waters in connection with
the revolution.
j The Memphis is of 14,500 tons and
has a horse power of 23,000. Her com
j plement is 900 men. She is the llag
j ship of the cruiser force of the United
jPtates Atlantic Fleet.
Captain K. L. Reach commands the
Memphis. Other officers on board in
clude Lieutenant-Commander Y. S. Wil
liams. Lieutenant T. Withers, Jr.. Lieu
tenant C. A. Jones. Junior Lieutenants
H. J. Phonerd, W. J. Carver, F. L. Shea,
I J. L. Kerley and H. J. Pearce. lOnsigns
j D. M. Steece. .1. II. Hock well, M. J.
| Walker, Ft. L. Darrow, I). D. Dupre and
i 11. M. Meyers, Passed Assistant Sur
| peon J. D. Mears. Passed Assistant
j Surirenn (J. K. Robertson. Dental Sur
[ gc-on R Rarber, Passed Assistant l'ay
: tnas: K. C. Mcintosh, Acting Chaplain
C. V. Kills and First Lieutenant of
Marines R. L. Shepard.
The Memphis was launched in 1904
at the Cranip Shipbuilding Company
plant in Philadelphia.' She has a speed
of more than twenty-two knots an
hour. She is 502 feet long on the
water, seventy-five beam and has a
maximum draft of twenty-six and a
half feet.
FEWER PARALYSIS CASES
Increase in Xumlirr of Death*. How
ever, |m Noted In \f?
York.
NKW YORK. August :'9.?A further
decrease in the number of cases of
infantile paralysis in New York was
reported fo-dav, but the deaths have
taken a jump. To-day's new cases?
seventy-three?are the lowest Tuesday
figures since July 4. There were thir
ty-two deaths, however, an increase of
seven over last week.
The advisory board of the health
{department will meet to-morrow, and
I it is believed will sanction the open
ing of the local schools on September
25. the. date tentatively set by the
hoard of education. So confident are
Federal health authorities that the
plague is on Hie wane that the entire
corps in charge of eovcrnment work
in the paralysis epidemic expects to
leave by the middle of September.
CR0KER UNDER THE KNIFE j
? |
Operated On in Dublin for an A fVec- |
^ (ion of (lie Pacini
Hour.
PURLIN", August *J9.? Diehard ?"ro- }
ker, former head 'if the Tammany or
ganization in New York, went under
the knife here to-day for an affection
of Ihe facir.l hone, which injured his
eyesight.
It is stated to-night thai the opera
tion was successful. On nutlioritalive
information it also may be denied that
Mr. Croker will visit New York this
year, as had been reported.
The story cabled to America of the.
sale of the Croker stables is absolutely
untrue. lie is sending some of his
horses to F.ngland. Inn his establish
ment as a whole remains nnehaimed.
Mr. Croker intends to fulfill all his
racing cngngenients of the season.
I,Anon DAY THII* TO BA1.TIMOKK
f 4 rouml trip via YORK HIVRIt LINK.
I TleketH sold Friday nnii SatiirilHV. pood rn
I turninc arrivins Richmond Tucmlay. l'hono
MudUon 27-. 4 *
< >
E
All Shipments of Perishable
Goods and Live Stock
Refused.
STRIKE DANGER RESPONSIBLE:
Action Not Concerted, but All
Lines Expccted to Take
Similar Step.
]
NKW TOI'K, August 1".' The nn
j nouncement here tn-nieht l?v th?* New
Haven Railroad that. because of the
t inipeudlmr railroad strike, it would.te
fuse all shipments of freight whleh
j cannot lie delivered before 7 A. M. on
j .September -l brought out the fact that
similar action is being considered by
; the other road.- entotlng the city.
Albert T. Hardin, vice-president of
the New York t'eiitral, said to-niaht
that A. M. Smith, ihe president, was
expected from Washington to-morrow,
and that the <|U' lion of an embargo
probably would he yonc Into.
I?elaware. Lackawanna and Western
officials discussed the subject, but, ac
cording to P. .1 I'lynn. a vice-president,
reached no definite conclusion. Mr.
I'lynn said the road's position probably
would be atinouneei] by Thursday morn
ing.
The Ponnsylvai: a and other railroads
! here, it was said, also are undecided,
j hut probably will announce their posi
! tions in a day or two. ^
\(l HK.SI'ONSIHII.IT*
Knit A\\ SIIMMIKNTK
TOPKKA. KAN'S, August '.'9.?The
j Atchison. Topeka and Sante l*'e Kall
; road to-day placed an embargo on all
; shipments ?>f perishable goods and live
st??ck. effective at once, according to a
I statement issued from thotllce ??f
j .1 It. Koontz, general freight agent.
The order also states the company will
I rot take the responsibility on other
j shipments.
The embargo affe.'is the entire rail
' road system. Mr. Koontz said, and will
j remain in effect until further notice,
j The threatened nation-wide railroad
strike was said to be responsible for
1 t he order.
fnder tlv order the railroad will
? refuse to accept shipments of live
j stock, butter, eggs and similar com
, modities.
UACH ItO.VD WIL.il ADOPT
ITS OWN PRECAUTIONS
WASHINGTON, August 29.?Railroad
managers here said all lines probably
would take, action similar to that or
dered by the Sante j."e to protect them
selves in case of a strike, but that no
concerted action had been agreed upon,
and each road would adopt its own
| precautions.
i
i:>iiiah<;o is w\ot \c?:i? on
At.I. PK.IMSIt A Itl.K l-'ltKICIIT
DAM,AS, TUX.. August :.'P.?General
j ofllces of Missouri. Kansas and Texas
Railroad here announced to-day an em
; bargo on all perishable freight, effec
tive to-morrow morning. The order
1 also states no live stock will he ac
! cepted for shipment unless It reaches
its destination by Sunday morning,
j The railroad accepts all other classes
I of freight subject to delay.
i?assi:\<;i-:hs notiki k.i>
ok pitoiiA 111,10 dklavs
SAN KitAN< 'ISCO, August 29.?The
following instructions were tele
urn plied by the headquarters of the
Si uthern I'acitb- Kompany to-night to
j al! division superintendents:
"IMeusc instruct all passenger and
ti< ket agents by wire at once to notify
passengers unless they ran reach their
destination by Sunday night, Septem
ber :i, they must be subject to perplex
ing delays
(Signed) "C11AKL1CS l-'EK,
"Passenger Trallic Manager."
Similar instructions regarding freight
! were expected to follow.
| KltKKillT II VMM.I0HS STItlKK
i\ pack ok km it a iu;o
CIIIC.UP August ".'It.?Chicago, the
greatest railway center in the world,
i fought in the face of local difficulties
? to-day to transfer thousands of cars
j of freight in time for the cars to
I reach their destinations ahead of Sep
tember 2. the date declared by West
ern railroads to-night for an embargo
on perishable freight. I'.y vote of the
International Mrotherhood of Kreight
Handlers' local unions to-night, it was
determined to call a general strike sit
noon to-morrow of all freight handlers
in Chicago?numbering about tl.ftOa?
unless concessions demanded from the
employers are granted before that
hour.
Approximately 1..V>'? men < 111 it work
yesterday and to-day. Th?.? question
at Issue is not higher wages, but right
of unions to collect dues from the
members at their places of employ
ment. The twenty-seven railway lines
entering Chicago?this number being
exclusive of different divisions of the
same roads have been preparing, how
ever. to handle an enormous amount
of freight east and west within the
next week.
The embargo on perishable freight,
railway otlicials said, will principally
affect live stock. Kxceptionallv heavy
receipts of hogs, cattle and sheep at the
Chicago, Kansas City, Kast St. Louis
and other markets are anticipated be
fore the embargo becomes effective.
Some of the railwav ollicials said they
would operate -?> per cent of the regu
lar traffic out of Chicago from the
minute a strike was declared, and could
build up this service until it was prac
tically normal within thirty days. Po
lice Chief Ileal.* to-day issued orders
canceling all furloughs of members of
his forco and recalling all members who
are on furloughs.
OKKH'IM.S MK.K.T TO-l>\\
TO CONSIDCK KMIIMH.O
NORFOLK. August '2!t. -No embargo
orders on freight have been Issued by
heads of transportation companies
I here to-night, but the officials will
(Continued 011 Second Page.)
Wilson Urges Eight-Hour-Day Law
and Other Remedial Legislation
\\ \S11l.\liTO\. I>. C., AnmiMt ^f?.?
l-'nllowlnic tlx* IfKliliilliiii ?hii'li
I'renliletlt Wilson unveil upon t'on
Kri'HM in his N|irri'li tlij.s nf te rnixtn :
.A n rluht-hniir Inu for riillroatl
employee* riiKimril in Interstate
comiiirrcr. ?
\ measure ereatlnc; a cnminlxilou
for tlie in\ estiKiilion of llir ?nrk
ability of ilir cluhi-hour <ln y nml
urk<> <itir?flon* lnvol*e?l In the prpx
eut eon trover*}'.
\n net similar to the tiinnillnn in
ilustrliil disputes art for the invm
tlKiidon of disputes on rnilrnml.s he
Ineen cmpioyers ami employers nml
prohibiting Nirlkr.i or loekouts tlur
iiik Ihr in* estimation.
A resolution n n I Ii o r I / I n ? tlie In
terstate (omnieree I'lMiimUxInn to
tnUc ?nKr standard Into ennsldera
lloii in tlxInK frelnlit ratr*.
\ ii (liori/n t Ion for the President to
ilrnft men Into tlie I'Vderal ?fni/T
for the operation of the rnllroailH
in ense of n strike.
Increase in the Interstate ('om
nieree < 'oiiiiiiIsmIihi from seven to
nine member*.
FEII FOOD FAMINE HERE
IF BIO STRIKE COMES
C'ary Stiwl Dealers Dotliire Supply
mi Hand Would Lust Only
One Week.
PRICKS WOl'LI) IIK PROII1IIITIVE
Fruits, Vegetables, Diickons and
.Meats Would Fail Within Siv
Days After City Is Isolated by
Transport at i?ui Tie-Up.
Within j single week after the im
prtillns national railroad strike he
ca nio effective. Ilivlimotul's food stores,
particularly those of a perishable na
ture. would approach exhaustion, and
there would ensue a shortage which,
with respect to sonic of the most im
portant necessities, would amount to
a famine.
Iliis is the belief of leading Cary"
Street dealers, who discussed with
growing alarm yesterday the progress
of the (rreat transportation contro
versy. Richmond's fresh-food ilepot.
they pointed out. carries only enough
to provision the city for a few days.
Kxc.pt for the milk that is brought
here by wagon and electric car, and
the garden truck that comes by cart,
practically everything that goes on the
table Is shipped in by rail. River traf
| tic would do little towards relieving
the pressure, and auto trucks would
l>c totally inadequate.
.not i:noi (;ii provisions
TO I,AST t ITV A \vi:i:k
? "I don't believe there arc enough
j provisions in Richmond to last a week
| if a railroad strike should cut off the
supply," said (J ra ha in R. Currie, of
I Ctirrie X- Co., commission merchants,
j yesterday. "Xear-hy truck farms
| iiiIi;lit scnil in enough food by wagons
j to last two weeks longer, and then the
i city would face starvation. Meanwhile,
] the prices on ihe necessaries of life
j would go sky high. Only a very small
j part of Richmond's supplies are
brought by boat, ami most of that has
been shipped part of Ihe way on the
railroad."
Other produce dealers expressed
j practically the same belief. All con
I curred in the opinion that an enor
nious amount of loss and much suffer
j ing would inevitably result from a
(strike. Richmond lives from hand to
mouth, and one day s food has for the
j most part arrived but the day before,
i Few cities in the country could long
1 avoid famine if cut off from rail com
i munication with their sources of food
| supply, and Richmond Is no exception.
"Not a piece of fruit will be left
in Richmond a week after the rail
roads stop operations," declared W. C.
Crenshaw, "f W. <*. Crenshaw ,<? Co.
I-ruit has to be handled quickly, or
! it will spoil. It must be eaten a few
? days after it is picked. It is inipos
! si bio to accumulate a struck to prepara
I for a shortage. About SHO.OOO is spent
I every week in Richmond for fruit."
"Richmond consumes about two car
loads of potatoes a day." said Richard
. M. Mel 11 tire, of ,|. s. Melntire .*? Co.
j "The supply Is brought in at this sea
son of the year from outlying districts
: c.f Virginia, but it would be impossible
to obtain it if the railroads stopped
; iunniug. \\ e have iio supply ahead.
! 'f It were in wintertime, the merchants
i would have a quantity of potatoes on
I luind. but now they depend on tho I
j supply brought in dally."
i I'roducc merchants estimated that !
| most of the staple articles of food'
would be gone before the. first week
| of isolation I'.ii Iter, chickens, apples,!
potatoes, onions and all sorts of fruits
ami vegetables would be exhausted. I
l-:ggs. Hour and meats could hold out'
longer, but would fail after a fow
weeks of llie strike. The local milk;
supply is independent of the railroads
Most of it is brought m by electric j
car and by wagon.
It KAT s | \\ (it |,|?
IIOI.IJ III T Sl \ |>.\ i s j
There would be enough fresh meat'
Ml the city at the Mine the strike came
to last a week, thought < >. II. Landm en,
manager of the local hrnne.h of Armour I
At <\>. (?f oilie,r meat products, such asj
ham, bacon and lard, there would prob- :
ably be enough to supply the city f,,,
a month. Although some of the meat
is Shipped in on til.' hoof ami but e he red
here, (lie greater part of it conies from!
Western pack ing-houses.
The weekly shipments of meat of j
all kinds into Richmond, il is estimated,!
amount to between l,ii.1O,000 and l!,00n,
00n pounds. More than two-tbirds of
this is distributed to points outside the
city. Richmond alone consumes about
?tin.ntm u nrtli ,,r meat every week.
Healers hi bay. grain and feed would,
be better able to withstand the strain!
of a general railroad strike, thought
Secretary Y. K. Cooker, of the Rich
mond Cotton and Urain Kxchange. Al
though most of tbe products of that
nature consumed here are brought from
the West, there is a greater store on
t? 'outiniied on Second I'age.)
Knend Week-Knd nnil l.nltnr l>nv In Norfolk.
13.00 round trin via Norfolk and Western
Railway. Tickets .mi Id Vrltlny a f I i-rimmi
and for alt trains .Saturday. Limit Mouday
REFUSE TO SURRENDER
WITHOUT TOLL HEARING
Kailrn.nl President* Issue Statement
'I'ellins; Why Wilson's Su^nes
lions Are Rejected.
jPliK.-M) roil ARIHTKATION
l>o Not Assent to Assertion That
"Fight-Hour Dn.v Mas Sanction of
Judgment of Society in Its Favor."
Act as Trustees for I'uhllr.
WASH IXOTOX, [), C.. Adjust 2?.?
Tills statement to the public was
i Issued by the ronimittpe of railway
| presidents to-day following .their enn
ference with I'resident Wilson no the
j strike situation:
"We are unable after the most
earnest consideration to ugr^o with the
I roposal of tho President of the United
Statosi. w tii. h is that we accept with
out arbitration 'the substitution of an
eight-hour day for the present ten-hour
?lay in al! of the existing practices and
| agreements.' This is the main point
in controversy, and we cannot sur
render it without an opportunity to be
: heard in the form of fair arbitration.
"We do not assent to the statement
that 'the eight-haul' day now un
doubtedly has the sanction of the Judg
| ment of society in its favor.' Wo be
i lii ve that society litis not yet recorded
' its judgment upon the subject.
1 I.KNCiTH OK U.\t CONTHOI.I.KI)
IIV \ A It IA III.K CONDITIONS
"We are not in this controversy, how
I ever, dealing with the conditions re
lating to the eight-hour day in the in
dustrial world. The difference between
the eight-hour day in business and
manufacturing Interests ami in the
! railroad train service day has been
fully explained. The railroad day is
a basis for computing pay and over
; time, the length of daily service being
j controlled by variable conditions.
"The demands involved in this con
troversy have not been presented, in
i our Judgment, for the purpose of ilxing
ja definite daily period of labor nor a
1 reduction in the existing hours of labor
| or change in methods of operation, but
j for the real purpose of accomplishing
Jan increase in wages of approximately
I $100,000,00(1 per annum, or 35 per rent,
i for the men in railroad freight train
and yard service represented by the
! labor organizations in this matter,
i "After careful examination of th?
i facts and patient and continuous con
sultation with the conference commit
tee of managers and among ourselves,
we have reached a clear understanding
of the magnitude of the questions and
of the serious consequences to the rail
roads and t<> the public involved In a
decision of them.
CANNOT St. It It K\ DKIt
\MTIIOl T HKAKl.VG
"As trustees for the public served
, b> our lines and for the great mass of
j the less powerful employees (not less
j than SO per cent of the whole number)
i interested In the railroad wage fund
j ?as trustees also for the millions of
'people that have invested their savings
and capital in the bonds and stocks of
these properties, and who through the
savings banks, trust companies anil in
surance companies are vitally inter
ested to the extent of millions of
dollars, in the integrity and solvency
I of the Railroads of (he country, we
I cannot in conscience surrender without
a hearing, the principle involved nor
undertake to transfer the enormous
cost that Will result to the transporta
tion of the commerce of the country.
I he eight-hour day without punitive
overtime involves annual increase
approximating in the aggregate
oo.i.ooo and an increase of more than L'O
per cent In the pay of the men. already
the mostly highly paid in the trans
portation service. The ultimate cost to
the railroads of an admission in this
matter of tiie principle under conten
tion cannot now l?e estimated. The)
effect upon Hi,, industry and transpor
tation of the country, now already
under severe test under the tide of
business now moving, an^ at a time
when more instead of loss effort is
equired for the public welfare, would
be harmful beyond calculation.
KKKKCT I I'ON I MM STIC IKS
IIK1 ON I) \ I'l'll \ IS K M KNT
"The widespread effect upon the in- j
dnslrles ? >f the country as a whole is!
he> ond measure or appraisement at
litis time, ami we agree, with the in
sistent and widespread public concern
over the gravity of the situation and
the consequences of a sui-reuder by the
railroads in this emergence.
"In like manner, we are deeply im
pi essctl i\ ith till* sense of our responsi
bility *1 o p ta i nt <t in and keep open I lie
arteries of transportation which carry
the life blood of the commerce of the
country and of the consequences that
will follow from even a temporary iti-j
terruption of service over the railroads,!
but the issues presented have been
raised above and beyond the social and
monetary questions involved, and the
i cspons i hi I i I > for tin- consequences that
?nay arise will rest upon those that
provoke it.
"The questions Involved are, in ..our
respectful Judgment, eminently suitahlo
r (CoTTunucd on Third"*Pagtj.)
PRESIDENT LAYS
STRIKE SITUATION
Asks That Laws Be Passed
to Control Present and
Future Difficulties.
EIGHT-HOUR DAY PROPOSED
FOR RAILWAY EMPLOYEES
Strike Already Ha,s Been Called
for ? A. M. on Sep
tember 4.
OUTLOOK IS YKRY C.RAYK
Doubt rial if Congress Can Art Quickly
Knoug;h Jo Avert (Jrcat
Disaster.
WASHINGTON. August 1*.- Presl
ilojit Wilson, laying the railway strike
.situation before Congress to-day with
recommendations for legislation, ad
vanced the crisis to a stage where the
nest developments depend upon two
'points. They arc;
^Whether the legislation he proposes
can he passed.
If enacted, will it l>e effective to
prevent a strike already called for 7
A. M.. September 4?
Xeither of tliese questions can he
answered to-night.
The brotherhood heads themselves,
announcing their Intention to fight
certain portions nf the President's pro
cram. are at loggerheads over whether
its enactment would prevent the strike.
covriM i:s nis kkkokts
TO IITllNf; Til KM TO?KTIIKR
The railwav presidents, favorable to
President Wilson'"s plan in the main,
think it would make it ditTicull for the
strike to begin. Meanwhile, although
Tie" ot ill t bill's between the em nlo ve".i
i?m| joeti were broken off to-dav bv
th?* retection of Ihe raib*viv nr^sbteots*
la?o<-t "-oposiil for arbitration. Presi
dent WN-on is continuing his efforts
to brim: the two sides together on
some form of agreement Kfforts which
might well he described as almost
superhuman are being exerted to that
epil to-nisrht.
When the brotherhood leaders this
morning rejected the latest proposal
of the rallro(ids ami definitely sot tho
strike for T.nbor Pr??* without further
notice. President Wilson decided to
lav tho whole situation before Con
n-ess. Tiefore a Joint session of tho
Mouse and Senate, and with a solemn
recital of the distress and disaster a
strike would brine to the country, ho
proposed a plan 'if legislation.
WII.SON'S PHOI'OS A I.S
MA OK TO CO.\<JHI-:SS
This is the President's 'proposal hi
his own language;
First. Immediate provision for tho
enlargement and administrative re
organization of the Interstate Com
merce Commission along the lines em
bodied in the hill recently passed by
the House of Iteprcscntatives and now
awaiting action by the Senate, in order
that the commission may be enabled
to deal with the many great ami
various duties now devolving upon It
with a promptness and a thoroughness
which are. with its present constitu
tion and means of action, practically
impossible.
Second. The establishment, of an
eight-hour day as the legal basis alike
of work and of wages in the employ
ment of all railway employees who
are actually engaged in the work of
operating trains In interstate trans
portation.
Third. The autIonization of the ap
pointment by the President of a small
body of men to observe the actual re
sults in experience of adoption of the
eight-hour day in railway transports- -
tion alike for the men and for tho
railroads, its effects in the matter of
operating costs, in the application of
the existing practices and agreements
to the new conditions, and in all other
practical aspects, with the provision
that the investigators shall report their
conclusions to the Congress at the
earliest possible date: in order that
the public may learn from an un
prejudiced source ,ln^ what actual de
velopments have ensued.
I.MTUCASICI) KltKK.IIT It ATMS
TO MKICT K.VI'KXOITUnMS
Fourth. Kxplicit approval hy the
^Congress of t lie consideration by the
interstate Commerce Commission of an
increase ot freight rates to meet such
additional expenditures by the railroads
as may have been rendered necessary
j by tho adopting of the eight-hour day,
| and which have-not been offset by ad
ministration offsets and economics
| should tho facts disclosed justify tho
increase.
Fifth. An amendment of the exist
ing Federal statute which provides for
the mediation, conciliation and arbitra
j lion of such controversies as the prcs
, ent by adding to it a provision that. In
I case tho methods of accommodation now
j provided for should fail, a. full public
j investigation of the merits of every
such dispute shall he instituted and
'completed before a strike or lockout
may lawfully he attempted.
Sixth. The lodgment in the hands of
the executive of the power. In ease of
military necessity, to take control of
such portions and such roiling stock o{
tlie railways of the country as may he
11 OS
ate them for military purposes, with
authority to draft into the military
service of the t'uitcd States such train
crews and administrative oflicl.tlM as
the circumstances require for their
safe and elliclent use.
Immediately aftci the President had
delivered his recommendations Con
gress set About to see how they might,
he enacted into law. The Senate Inter
state Commerce Committee, which h*?
