WJl'iPfHiWP WIIWUM !
M - i
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT y
EXTRA
I
PRICE ONJG3 OJEHT
VOli.MI. tfO. 300
PlBCLADULPklA, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 191G.
COMKIOUT, 1916, at tuiPcbuo Leooii CoM'AMf,
HE,U
CLEAR SERBIA,
BULGARS TOLD
BY BUCHAREST
Rumania Sends Ultima
tum to Sofia Opens
Hostilities
IJROTHENTHURM PASS
LOST BY AUSTRIANS
IjHostile Troops on Hungar
ian Soil Meet Little
Resistance
GREECE NEARS CRISIS
5
pKindenburg and Mackensen
H Called to Save Dual
Monarchy
BUCHAREST, Aug. 30. Rumanian
; Clroops have marched without interrup
tion for twelve hours in enemy tcrri-
'tory, encountering only weak resistance,
;' Bald the first oflicial statement from the
Rumanian War Office today on the invn
, Blon of Transylvania.
' LONDON, Aug. 30. Virtual admis
sion that Russian troops arc now cross
ing Rumania for the invasion of Hun
gary or Bulgaria was contained in a
it Reuter dispatch trom i'ctrograd, passed
ti. oy me nussiun tuuaur mis uucrnuun.
The dispatch stated that "it may be as
Burned that Russian troops arc now
crossing Rumania."
LONDON, Aug. 30. A Rome wire
less dispatch states that Russian and
f$ .Rumanian troops have captured the
principal passes ii the Carpathian
mountains leading into Hungary.
LONDON, Aug. 30. All the members"
pof the Greek General Staff have resign-
Ijind arc being replaccd'by other ofli-
JmlUers, says a Central Nows dispatch
n Athens-
Is .', HV'--T '-
BERLINiAug. 30. Austro. German
troops .have captured, Mt. Kukul, in the
Carpathians, in a storm attack, the
War Office announced today. On the
: weat front all the German positions
have been maintained despite Anglo
French attacks.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 30. Ameri
can Ambassador Pcnfleld in Vienna to
day reported to the State Department
that he had been formally requested by
Rumania to take over Rumanian diplo-
matic affairs in Vienna and act as an
, Intermediary in diplomatic relations bc
vtw.een those to governments.
Ambassador Penfield asked for in
structions as to what he shall do. He
'- will, be authorized to dd.so.
Rumania has opened hostilities
against Bulgaria, according to a dis
patch from Paris. Rumanian artillery
is bombardincr the Bulgarian towns of
LRustchuk and Orsova, on tho Danube.
bimultancously with tho renort con
taining these facts comes the news that
Bucharest has dispatched an ultimatum
Concluded on Tore rive. Column tf wo
HIRAM JOHNSON WINS
OVER 'OLD GUARD' MAN
IN PRIMARY CONTEST
fNominated for Senate; Control
of California's Republican
Votes Passes to Governor,
Ardent Progressive
PARTY FIGHT ENDED
HIRAM JOHNSON
HAfcj -pniwrncp. a -no- 3ttv-ftantrol of
tfc mass pt Republlcaiuvoters in California
waay passed to Governor liiram w mo-
ffiOn ItiaAow, -.. 1. Tintrs-aaalvfft In thft StiltQ.
I Nearly complete returns today show that
' Johnson has won the Republican nomina
' tlott for united States Senator by a good
majority over. Willis R. Booth, the "old
ttt&rd-" candidate, Latest tabulations showed
the Governor leading by about seventeen
thousand vote and his friends assert bis
' ' ' -
k fi& Br' - " 'iiSK'iPjiiifceVV
ONLY 20 LOST
AS SEA HURLS
SHIP ON ROCKS
900 Rescued From U. S.
Cruiser Memphis in Santo
Domingo Harbor
EXPLOSION INJURES 77
Tidal Wave Bursts Steam Pipe.
Men Returning From Shore
in Launch Lost
SANTO DOMINGO, Aug. 30. Alt ofllceTS
and sailors on tho United Slates armored
cruiser Memphis, when It was driven ashore
near tho Santo Domingo lighthouse late
yesterday, numbering more than 900, have
been rescued, It was announced today. The
cruiser Itself wilt be a total loss.
Bodies of several members of the crew,
who wero returning trom shore In a launch
when a sudden tidal wave throw tho cruiser
on tho rocks and upset tho small boat, were
wnshetl ashore early today. It Is believed
20 wero drowned.
Tho Cavy Department today, by wire
less, ordered tho hospital ship Solace, at
tho. eastern end of tho Island of Haiti, to
Santo Domingo to xtalo caro of tho Injured
from tho cruiser Memphis.
Tho naval (transport Dixie, en route from
Vera Cruz to Koy "West, with American
Consul Itodgcrs and Mexican Commissioner
Cabrera on board, has been Intercepted
by radio and ordered to the scene to pick
up tho uninjured craw.
Tho nature of the place upon which tho
Memphis was tossed by tho terrific wave
precluded all hope that It would bo possible
to savo the vessel. It struck upon jagged
rocks, which pierced tho hull, tho water
rushing through several holes Into tho en
glno room and extinguishing tho Arcs. The
water was quiet today and It Is expected
that a largo part of tho Memphis' equipment
will be saved unless a sudden storm arises.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 30. More than
twenty men arc dead, 10 seriously Injured
and C7 slightly Injured of the crew of the
cruiser Memphis, driven on tho rocks In
Santo Domingo harbor late yesterday. Ad
miral Pond reported to tho Navy Depart
ment this forenoon.
EXPLOSION INJURES 77.
The Memphis was hit by a terrlflo swell
as she lay at anchor' In the harbor, Fond
reported. Effort was made to got up steam.
So great was tho swell a tremendous vol-i
umo of water was believed to have been
shipped that the main, steam lino of the
Memphis broke. One man was killed and
the Injuries to all, of the 77 men wero be
lieved to have been caused by the explosion.
Pond reiterated his statement that more
than twenty men returning from shoro In
a motorboat were drbwned.
Rear Admiral Pond later reported that
Chief Gunner's Mate G. W. Rudd was killed. ,
Lieutenant Claude A. Jones, of Charleston,
W. Vn., and another officer were seriously
burned, but aro expected to recover.
The list of others reported "very seriously
Injured" follows:
H. A. ANDERSON, fireman, second class.
C. II, WILLEV, machinist.
A. II. rORTER, water tender.
J. r. BLACKWEI.T,, coal passer,
Y. J. QUINN, water tonder.
J. II. THOMPSON, fireman, first class.
Those "seriously Injured" are:
M. T. McVEIOK, ordinary seaman.
W, S. PJjAUCK, water tender.
T. J, LEAKY, fireman, first class.
It. A. BRYAN, seaman.
J. KEEQAN, fireman, flrst class.
Records of the Navy Department here do
not contain the name of J, H. Thompson,
fireman, first class.
The tug Potomac, which left Santo Do
mingo City for Port Palenquo at 1:30
Continued on Paio Four, Column Tour
WALLACE F.J0HNS0N
DEFEATS R0SENBAUM
IN NATIONAL MATCH
Local Tennis Player Victorious
Over Metropolitan Opponent
in Straight Sets The Scores
Were, 6-1, 6-2, 7-5
NAT NILES WINNER
Bll a Btaff Corrt'vondcnt
mnEST HILLS. Is". Y Auk. 30. Wal
lace F. Johnson, playlntr with all the dash
and speed that took him through the na
tional tennlB championship at Newport In
1914 to the final, where he came within an
ace of beating the great McLoughlln. today
vanquished Dr. William Rosenbaum, of
New York, one of the holders of the na
tlonal indoor doubles championship, In the
second round of the thirty-sixth annual
championship In progress on the turf courts
at the West Side Tennis Club. Johnson,
playing well within himself, crushed the
Indoor expert in straight sets at 6-1,
6-2. 7-B.
The Phlladelphlan toyed with Rosenbaum
n the first two sets. In the opening games'
Rosenbaum played "neU" but Johnson
passed him with such ridiculous ease lhat
he soon abandoned these tactics and con
tented himself with baseline driving.
He found Johnson's famous, chop strokes
difficult to handle, and bis total of nets
was unusually nigh.
In ths third set. Johnson tried all his
strokes and Rosenbaum managed to pile
uo a lead. But at critical stages Johnson
managed to pull out of a hole by slipping
across clean service aces, at times scoring
two or three la a single gwos.
Early this afternoon R. Norrls Williams.
Zd Philadelphia, met Robert la Roy. New
CnUoiid Pa Tfclitmn.. CsJiTTni Six
wx.
C!
nA
a J'l
A
iXVTrl
i ?-tw
')&
?m
'.'
mi
m
-1
m
MRS.. LUOX L. W. 1VILSON
Tho principal ,o"tno South Phila
delphia High 'School for Girls is
shown in the costume worn by her
during her, cxploratioatrip through
New Mexico and the haunts of the
J'ueblo Indians from which she re
turned to frwr home in this city
today.
DOCTOR WILSON,
WOMAN EXPLORER,
SAFE AT HOME
South Phila. Girls High
School Principal Back
From New Mexico
BRINGS MANY TROPHIES
By M'LISS
To the average woman camping out In
the wilds of an unexplored country the
whole summer long with civilization 20
miles away and with' only male Pueblo
Indians as companions is suggestive of
hysteria and "fa'lntlng spells and terrors
unspeakable.
To Dr. Lucy Langdon W. Wilson, prin
cipal of the South Philadelphia High School
for Girls in the fall, winter and spring, and
noted archeologlst In the summer time, It
Is a glorious .vacation, rich in interest and
adventure and- wonderfully productive In
scientific results.
Doctor Wilson Is back from Otowl, New
Mexico. For a .whole week she has been
in hiding at her home at 610 North Thirty
second street. It was there that I found
her last night guarded closely by her hus
band. Dr. William V, Wilson, president ot
ths Commercial Museum. The terrors which
the mesa and mountain country of New
Mexico and their red skin inhabitants could
not Inspire rilled, her breast In Philadelphia.
Here are the reporters. Why fear the
unclllviUied Indians?
"Fear them?" Doctor Wilson laughed me
to scorn when I put the question. "A woman
could not, be safer than with the Pueblos.
They are remarkably tine Indians, gentle,
courteous, clean, respecting both themselves
and you. They are always quiet and mod
eat. When I satd this to a French lady who
visited me and expressed astonishment, she
said: ' 'Is It not nne to think that there are
really such Una gentlemen in the world!'
I replied, 'Yes, they can be matched in
this respect qnly by our finest type of
American young men!"'
SUCCESSFUL EXPEDITION.
Doctor Wilson's expedition, which, was
the continuation of one started last summer,
was highly successful, and notable eth
nological and archeologlcal contributions to
the museum's fine collection will be made
as ths result of her activities. Last year
only ti rooms of thq buried Indian villages
that she Is working on were excavated.
This year !00 were uncovered In the big
pueblc which contains about ISO rooms in
all
With no help but ths hired Indian labor
CooUfluti on Fas Rmr. Colurao Taa
CALL FOR ACTION
CITIZENS' ANSWER
TO MAYOR'S BOAST
If He Knows, Why Doesn't
He Stop Police Corrup
tion? Question Asked
CLEAN UP DEMANDED
Mayor Knows of Secret
Control of Policemen
"T HAVE been in politics for years,
- I know -what thlng9 are done,
nnd that knowledge is guiding me
now. But I never dreamed that
politics could lead men' to do such
things as I have discovered have
been done in Philadelphia. My mind
is made up, and I am going to teach
policemen that they cannot take or
ders from tho outside nnd expect to
get away with it.
"It is unfortunate that we cannot
dismiss n grent many policemen
from the force. There arc some I
would like to got rid of now, but tho
law lays down rules which must be
followed." Mayor Smith in Atlantic
City statement.
Cltlzons fighting for good government
today demanded that Mayor Smith net
Immediately upon his "knowledge" ot cor
rupt practices In Philadelphia politics In
connection with tho Bureau ot Police and
bring tho culprits to Justice.
It was the following portion of n state
ment Issued by the Mayor from his At
lantic City summer home that caused tho
demand:
I have been In politics for years. I
know that things nro done, and that
knowledge Is guiding me now. But I
never dreamed that politics could lead
men to do such things as I liavo dis
covered have been dono In Philadelphia.
Thero was much wonderment expressed
today why the Mayor haB not acted long
before If he had "knowledgo" of what was
going on. One reform leader asked this
question:
Why doesn't Mayor Smith uso tho
power vested in mm to stop this cor
rupt union of politicians and policemen,
of which ho confesses he has full
knowledge?
Superintendent of Police Robinson would
make no reply this morning to Mayor
Smith's statement, that the Mayor and
Director Wilson will sit shortly as n trial
board to hear tho superintendent's defenses
to charges of "dereliction of duty," preferred
by the- July Grand Jury. .
The triers will 'hear all the witnesses
who testified before tho Grand Jury against
Robinson. '
..The Mayor, while refraining from com
menting upon tho censure of Robinson
contained In the 'Grapd Jury report, said,
nevertheless, that he. felt compelled to place
Robinson on trial In order to establish the
Justice or Injustice, of 'the charges by an
open revlow of all tho available evidence.
" The Mayor Indicated that he was.devot
Ing much time to his private Investigation
of the police department, and made It plain
that he was by no means Inclined to let
Coftllnufd on rare Four, Column Six
FREIGHT EMBARGO
ON P. R. R. SYSTEM
BEGINS TOMORROW
Explosives and Inflam
mables First to Feel ,
Its Effect
PERISHABLES ON FRIDAY
How P. R. R. Embargo
on Freight Hits City
1 Embargo on explosives, and
inflammables effective at
close of business Thursday, Au
gust 31.
2 Embargo on perishable
freight, including live stock,
live and dressed beef, dressed
poultry and fresh fruits and vege
tables, effective at close of business
Friday, September 1,
3 Embargo on all freights of
all kinds effective at close
of business Saturday, September 2.
"Close, of business" means 5 p. m.
Embargoes apply to shipments
from all points for all destinations.
Three successive embargoes on freight,
ending with a complete embargo n freight
of all kinds from ali points for all destlna
tlons at the close of business Saturday, were
l&ued by the-Pennsylvania Railroad Com
pany this afternoon as Its answer to the
nation-wide strike order for railroad em
ployes. The first embargo on all shipments of ex
plosives and inflammables goes Into effect
at the close of bmlness tomorrow. The
second, on live stock, beef, poultry, fresh
fruits and vegetables and other perishable
freight takes effect at the close of business
Friday. Saturday's embargo completes the
paralysis of frdsht movements over the
PrSsylvar.(sytm- AU shipments to
rfflwVandireafter will be received sub
ject to delay or damage.
The object of the embargo, the com
pany said In a statement, Is to clear the
now-congested Unes so as to avoid con
fusion when the strikes comes, As soon
as poslble, It to added, the embargo win
be nodlned so to allow the shipment of
edibles and perishables, ThU cannot be
J'I-S"UI "II 111 II ILI
Cofitlawd en ? x Cehuzut TLre
QUICK
NATIONAL LEAGUE
BOSTON, 1st g....r.O OOOIOO
PITTSBURGH O O O O O O O
Budolph nud Oowdy; Cooper and Fischer.
WILLIAMS DEFEATS LEROY IN SECOND ROUND MATCH
rOREST HILLS, N. Y., Aug. 30. 11. Norria Williams, Sd, of
Philadelphia, defeated Robert Leroy, of New York, lu the second
round of the national tennis championship here today. Scores,
C4, 0-1, 7-D.
BELMONT RACING RESULTS '
First race, 3-year-olds and tip, selling, purse ?500 1 1-1G miles
Fuzzy Wuzzy, 116, Byrne, 4 to 1, 8 to 5, 4 to D, won; Long Fellow,
120, Louder, 10 to 1, 4 to 1, 2 to 1, second; Ahara, 120, Butwell,
8 to 5, 7 to 10, 1 to 3, third. Time, 1.48 2-0.
RELEASE OF FRIGAR ON BAIL REFUSED
Judge Monaghan refused to admit Ellis D. Friga, of Boothwyn,
Delaware County, to bail this afternoon after ho had heard testimony
in the habeas corpus proceedings. His action, Judge Monaghan said,
was prompted by the fact that there was lack of evidence to show that
Frigar shot Edward Bolaud in self-defense.
SHIPPING BILL PASSES HOUSE WITH AMENDMENTS
WASHINGTON, Aug. 30. Tho House this afternoon passed tho
Administration shipping bill. It creates a shipping board of flvo
mombers to develop a naval auxiliary aud reserve nud a merchant
' marine. ' "
DU PONTS DECLARE 25 PER CENT QUARTERLY DIVIDEND
WILMINGTON, Del., Aug. 30. A quarterly dividend 6f 25 por cent on the
common stock was declared today by tho directors of tho E. I. du Pont de Nemours
& Co.. munition manufacturers, with tho understanding that 19H,Por cent of tills
dividend is payable in bonds of thoi British and French Governments, to which
munitions have been sold. Thq remainder will be paid In cash;
U. S. OWNERSHIP OF ROADS HINTED IN SENATE
WASHINGTON, Aup. 30. Unless tho Interstate Commerce Commission Is en
larged In number nnd Invested with wide reKiilatlvo powers. Government owner
ship of railroads is inevitable, Senator Uardwlcfc, of George, declared In the Senate
today.
1500 SCRANTON I. W. W. MINERS Gp ON STRIKE AS PROTEST
SCRAN'TON, Pa., Aug. 30. Fifteen hundred mine workers at Old Forge, near
hero, are Idle today. 1. W. W. leaders got them to quit as a show of strength in
protest against the arrest of several I. W. W. leaders In Minnesota Sheriff Ben
Phillips, anticipating trouble, went to Old Forge this afternoon. I, W. wi agitators
say other mines will have to shut down tomorrow. Much picketing was done today.
FLOUR MILLS TO CLOSE IN EVENT OF STRIKE
MINNEAPOLIS, Aug. 30. Flour mills here, manufacturing one-third of tho
nation's flour supply, will close down within a week ufter a national railway strike
Is called, It was reliably reported today. Suspension would be forced by Inability to
get wheat.
A. T. DICE, HEAD OF READING, ILL AT SHORE
Agnew T. Dice, president of the Philadelphia nnd Reading Hallway Company,
is HI nt his cottage in Atlantic City. At his office In the Reading Terminal today It
was said his condition was not serlouB, but ho had been In the care of a physician
for several days. The hot weather In Washington, where he was attending the
conference of railroad officials and representatives of the union trainmen, in addi
tion to the constant work mado necessary by the crisis, caused his illness.
COAST ARTILLERY RECALLED FROM BORDER DUTY
WASHINGTON, Aug. 30. The 28 companies of coast artillery sent to the border
to act as Infantry before the National Guard was called out have been ordered to
return to their proper stations at the coast defense batteries of the Eastern nnd
Western Departments. ,
ITALY REMOVES TABLETS THAT HONORED KAISER
ROME. Aug. 30. All of the tablets commemorating the Kaiser's visit to Rome
were removed today by the Italian Government,
23 SLAIN IN UPRISING IN DUTCH EAST INDIES
LONDON, Aug. 30. A Reuter dispatch from The Hague sayB thero have been
riots in the Dutch East Indies at Moertembecl, in Jumbl. Twenty of the armed
police, the administrator, u natlvo doctor and the village chief were murdered, and
the postofllce and prison burned. Punitive expeditions have been dispatched from
Palembang,
DEUTSCHLAND'S CAPTAIN DINES WITH KAISER
BERLIN, Aug. 30. The Kaiser, says an official announcement, has received
Alfred Lohmann, president of the board of directors of the Ocean Navigation
Company, and Captain Paul Koenlg, commander of the merchant submarine
Deutschland, at main headquarters. Ills Majesty had them as his guests at dinner,
KING OF BAVARIA REPORTED DEAD FROM STROKE
.PARIS, Aug. 30. A rumor circulated by way of Spain says that King Ludwlg
of Bavaria Is dead. The Pope, It Is said, ordered the Bishop of Munich to offer
prayers. King Ludwlg, who was 71 yeara old last January, was reported recently
to be lp a serious condition following a stroke of apoplexy,
PLANS SECOND HUGHES TRIP TO MIDDLE WEST
CIIlCAGp, Aug. 30. Tentative plans for a second Middle West speaking trip
that will bring Charles E. Hughes to Illinois about September 17 are being con
sidered by Chairman A. T, Hart and Jjis aids at wate'n Republican campaign head
quarters. Mr. Hughes probably will tou. .. a, and Michigan before re
turning East.
1 " '
NINE TONS OF IRON CROSSES CONFERRED
COPENHAGEN. Aug. 30. The Kiel Steltung says that -130,000 Iron qrosses
have been 'conferred up to the present, of which 420,000 were of the second class,
each weighing IS grams and composed ot half cast iron and half silver, ' The
total weight of 430.Q0Q Iron Crosses would be about nine tops.
EX-GOVERNOR PENNYPACKER'S CONDITION UNCHANGED
Former Qovernor Pennypacker'a -condition Is unchanged today, according to
his physician. "De. fL Croskey Alien. The patient continues to hold h$ slight gain
he made Monday morning, but la very weak.
EARTHQUAKE DESTROYS 500 HOUSES IN JAPAN
TOKIO, Aug. 30. An earthquake In southern Formosa, near Mount Morrison,
baa destroyed 500 houses and resulted la 30 casualties.
NEWS
WILSON WANTS
TRAIN HEADS TO
RECALL STRIKE
Believes Congress Will
Pass 8-Hour Day
k Law
SNARL IN SENATE
OVER LEGISLATION
Trainmen's Ruling to Quifc
Affects Passenger and
Freight Traffic.
NO SIGNS OF BACKDOWN
"Nothing Except Settlement Can
Prevent Strike on- Monday,"
Brotherhood Chiefs Say
President Wilson began work today
to obtain a withdrawal of the railroad
J v
brotherhoods' strike order.
Judge W. L. Chambers took activo
charge, as the President's, representa
tive, to force the heads of the trainmen
to delay action.
Congress, in its first efTorts to xush
railroad legislation, got into a snarl.
Charges were made that certain Sena
tors were attempting, to make political
capital out of a dangerous- situation.
Chairman Nowlands, of the Senate
Interstate Commerce Committee, gave
out a tentative, draft of tho legislation
proposed by the President.
Senator Lewis introduced. an amend
ment to the interstate commerce act
providing for two additional members
of tho Interstate Commerce Commis
sion. "No power on earth except a satis
factory settlement, of our demands will
prevent the general strike next Mon
day," said President Lee, of the Broth
erhood of Tainra'en,-after an hour's
cqnfcronce Yt1 Secretary of Labpr
Wilson. .
'WASHINGlON, Aug, 30. FoHowin?
conferences with Speaker Clark and
Majority Leader Kitchin, Representa
tive Adamson, of Georgia, chairman of
the House Interstate Commerce Com
mittee; declared that President Wilson's
proposed laws permitting rate Increases
and providing for compulsory mediation
and arbitration cannot be forced through
Congress.
"The remainder of the President's
program can be enactc dinto law," he
said.
CHICAGO, Aug. 30. "A strike is
now inevitable," said Louis W. Hill,
head of the Hill lines and one of the
biggest railroad owners in the United
States, on his return from Washington
today. "The situation is extremely
grave. The matters at issue cannot
now be adjusted. All efforts to prevent
this situation have failed. The demands
of the men are out of reason."
ADMINISTRATION HOPES
STRIKE WILL BE DELAYED
By ROBERT J. BENDER
WASHINGTON, Aug. 30. President
Wilson today was exerting every effort
to procure from the railroad brotherhood
leaders a withdrawal of 'heir strike order
effective September 4,
Judge W. L. Chambers, as representative
of President Wilson, took active charge of
the efforts to force th- brotherhood chiefs
to defer action. He said he-was' hopeful
that he would secure a postponement of
the threatened tie-up.
He declared, following -a conference with
the union leaders, that he "felt confident
that the strike would not come off next
Monday according to schedule. But he ad
mitted that to get postponement some ac
tion by Congress would be necessary.
The action that must come, In the opinion
of the mediation chief, la passage im
mediately or assurances that it will be
passed, of the eight-hour law and the law
creating a commission to Investigate the
methods of making It effective. It this la
done then. Judge Chambers believes, the
brotherhoods will abandon their proposed
strike.
Believing that Congress' is certain to pass
legislation such as the brotherhoods ar
contending for, Administration ofNclals hay
pointed out that the trainmen. would hay
nothing to gain by striking and everything
r1 " I1 I iii
CuntUutJ to. fate Sis. Celman Oem
' THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For .Philadelphia- and vienityG$n
erally'fabr pd QdergeJv cool tmigh
jittH Thursday i bghirsmthw4$t to Wfii
ieinds ' ' '
I.EKCTJI OH DAY.
Sua rUs 8SS a-m.lMoon rba .. fstaju
Sua " JSu.m.Maon mam. lXiiv.isl
DEIAWAKK U1VEU fIDE CHA(jM,
CHESTN - T ITBBr
Hlrt water.. 32 s.m.lHUh water S:4f ajfc.
Pw waUr. .M.io.(Loie water l0Mf3
TZitrKMXtWi AT EACM MOV.
si; tu laiui :ni' x it at sn
irroTwww wrwrwrr
'4
1
I
ir- ' iinmrfmimmmmmiM
