f HE WEATHER FORECAST. '
Partly cloudy and somewhat wanner
to-day; to-morrow fair.
Highest temperature yestenUy, 71 ; lowaat,M.
petalled weather, mall' and marina report! on page I.
hje
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXm. NO. 365.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 1916. Conyrli., 1919, by the Sun Printing and PublUMng A$oetaUon.
ONE CENT
la Greater New York,
Jersey Cltr and Newark.
Elsewhere
TWO CENT.
WISER PLACES
I1NDENBURG IN
FULL COMMAND
r " s
Stm.
WILSON R. R. PLAN FUTILE, SAY DEMOCRATS;
ROADS TO HOLD UP FREIGHT AFTER SEPT. 4;
POLICE TO CONTROL N. Y. FUEL AND FOOD
W Tmiffl VkMMMtMM SB A
jje.ua. nuBtHi r'Aii who
aacaped from the Federal
prison at Atlanta yesterday, was
one of the chief German con
spirators against the American
munition trade with the Entente
Allies.
U. S. S. MEMPHIS
GOES ON ROCKS;
20 LOST IN BOAT
Armored Cruiser Caught in
Hurricane in Santo Do
mingo Harbor.
Jrismbst's Von Fnlkcnhayn;,
years Allies, With New
Aid. Will Crush Austria.
JM MAXIANS DRIVE
FOK BACK AT PASSES
Effort Junction With Rus
sian Forces; Czar Send
ing More Troops.
jrASSINH MEX FOR
HUNGARY INVASION
Fijrhtiiiff at, Brasso, Near
Kronstndt, Followed by
Fresh Skirmishes.
Coi'kn-haoek, via London. Auk. 29.
fiermany haa realised that the entry
if Rumania Into the war may prove a
death blow to Austria and that the
Ktlser's armlea may aoon have to fight
id prevent the allied forcea from mak
ing an onslaught on German soil.
Tills la the Interpretation placed here
oa the action of Emperor William to-
dy In dUmtsiIng- Gen. von Falksn-
iyn from hLs post as Chief of Staff
cf the German armlea and appointing
n his place srlcld Marshal von Hln
knburg, to whom the Emperor always
u turned when the future has looked
lack for the fatherland.
An official announcement of thia Im
rortant change In the leadership of the
Herman forces Is contained In a tele-
tram received from Berlin this evenlnsr
the Rltxaus News Agency. The 1
c'cipatch adds that Gen. von Luden-
I'orf, who has been Von Hlndenburg's
t'Ucf of Staff, haa been named Quar-
irnuster-ueneral.
)
'Mob of Masartaa Lakes.'
When the' new Ituulan drive was
ttrtrd In June and the Muscovite forces
'ran seriously to threaten the roads to
Umbers, driving before them the armlea
-adtr the command of Von LInalngen,
Von Woyraech and the Austrian com
aindera In the south, nobody In Ger
many was surprised when the Kalter
unounred that ne had appointed Von
Hirrirnburg, the "Lion of the Masurian
Uxee," the victor of Tannenburg, to
de surreme command of all the armlea
C3 the eaitern front.
As the Csar's legions oontlnued their
ilrance through Oallcla and began to
tim.er at the gates of Hungary the
sews was permitted to be given out that
more Important step had been taken
by the Kaiser, Field Marshal von HUi
djnburg was sent to the extreme ejuth
f the front In the eastern theatre wit
Isitructlons to take command alao of
tie Austrian armies. One of fate first
eti was to depose several Austrian
KEtralsand to have the Austrian Crown
Mace placed In ostensible command on
liie Russian front.
Aagered the Hungarian!.
This course of action on the veteran
(lerrnan commander's part was a source
f undisguised anger In the dual mon
Jrchy, especially in Hungary, where the
(Mrge was made openly In parliament
that the Hungarians had been forced to
wr the brunt of the fighting against
the Russians. An official announcement
i made at German army headquarters
I'm the aDnolntment or Von Hlnrlnn.
I'trg was decided upon "by the Emperor
In acreement with Emperor .Francis
ipn.
It haa been apparent In German clr
J.m for several weeks that the situation
.r Austria-Hungary was very precarious
"ii If Is believed here now that the
naiser. action In giving supreme com
TtH to Von lilndenburg Is prepsra
'ry to a new alignment of the Teuton
hrnr tn provide for a possible collapse
'fi the iiart of Austria.
Count Karolyl, head of the Hungarian
position party, has been making vig
orous efforts to bring about a separa
pn nf the Austrian and Hungarian
irmlen, ti 1th a view. It Is asserted, of
mibltna; Hungary to ask for a separate
(SM.
RUMANIANS DRIVE
AVSTRIANS BACK ON
MOUNTAIN FRONTIER
Caret .Innrtlon With RaHlsa
rarer Kin OS tn Tabs
Command.
lAxfinjj, Aug. 29. Rumanian troops
1 fenny have forced the Austrlans to re
nn the mountain frontier between
rii-ions This Is admitted by the
'"lead statement of the Austrian War
lut meived here to-night, which says:
At ill the passes ot the 600 kilo
rn.ler UuniHtilan mountain frontier
e"r fiontler guards engaged the enemy
'ueitMfuiiy, only a far roacmlng en
JMlin, movement of strong Rumanian
''tcis obliged our advanced detach
m'ni.j i withdraw, according to plan,
t', a pi oinn prepared In the rear,
""(".it ilns it Is apparent bejond dls
'"1 ' .it Hie Huinunlan invasion of
il'inmj tluough the mountain passes
eo uiiiier wuy uud progressing
ni'ldly
Thoi lughiy prepaicd, with a plan of
'''uralgij i ;i t f fully mapped out, the Ru
''inlr.1 have effected with remarkable
uildin i junction with the Russian
"ts derating In the Carpathians,
I'rl,-' ,i I Ki.lili.Li'fn.unm. wmIim hna
'm im i i:., wis way through the Jablo
t Hia KHicu.tv Into Hungary.
ii' tpmt of Uie Junction of nusslans
' I liiiHiiinuiiH reachm hers from
"'llitr-uiu, and Is conflrnied by the of
;, '" (iniiiili atlon from the Berlin
if " e wi.leh mentions fluhtlng with
J ''' in tiiii.it forces In Hie Caipa-
uioiilioiH and batteries have
C' Ihiunl cn Fsvrfft Par.
LlaaaaaaaaaiaaaBlaallS' i
aHPEfct'F ?
aiaaaaaW aW- Taiia i
PafaaaV '?'vaW
-99
(fiaastsi- .dV
if M i
I
I Kl BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
aHy-aiarrifcagagiiraE
LIEUT. FAY, GERMAN
PLOTTER. ESCAPES
Walks Out of the Federal
Prison at Atlanta With
Another Convict.
Atlanta, Ga., Aug. 29. Lieut. Robert
Pay, the former German army officer,
who was sentenced to eight years In
the Federal prison here for conspiring
against the United States In connection
with a long series of bomb plots In New
Tork, haa escaped. He got anay late
to-day In company with William Knob-
loch, another prisoner, and both are still
at iiDerty.
Fay and Knoblech, who have leen do-
.L i 1. ri'ir wora at me prison,
walked by a guard at one of tho gates,
I!?'?. v.hey ?inf U,,"Je ,0 "PT '
aro lights, vhen their escape was dls-1
covered Just before dark an alarm was
sent out and guards searched tho coun-
tryslde about the prison. Knobloch was
sentenced at New York, May J, to serve
eighteen months for using the malls to
defraud.
Lieut Fay was one of the chief work
ers In the Illegal Qerman activities di
rected against munition exports from
this country to the Entente Allies, which
were unearthed when, on October 24,
1915. secret service i men with detectives ,
from New York nnd New Jersey fwooped
down upon Fay and his compuilons
while they were experimenting with ex
plosives in the Palisades, near Wee
hawken. Fay, according to a confession lie
made to Chief Flynn of the secret sr
vtce, had been a lieutenant In tho Klf-
mill" iu.mu ..uu
laz-hMl from active terv re and sent i
to the United States by the German I Capt. K. U lleach commode, the Men,
Oovermnent exprcsslv to inaugnrnte a ?' Other offlrem on board Inci.ided
reign of terror In American shipping. In I Iutennnt-Comniatider iwccy s. 111
the Weehawken room that be and his Inms, I.leut. ThnmnH Wltheis. Jr Idem.
e.llnw n-r.rlfr npollole.l t.ninrl five C A. .lolies a III! JlllllOr l.lellts. II. (5.
powenul nomofl wnit'll wt'ri li nave
been tied to the rudder posts of muni-
. .,,- ... ... ,
tlon carrying ships. Kxploded at sea by
clockwork they -would have Inevitably
sunk the liners with all on board.
It was the contention of the Govern
ment prosecutors who conducted the
case against Fay that he was the right
hand man of Capt. Boy-Kd and Capt.
von Papen, the discredited German at
taches, who were recalled on the de
mand of this country. It was alto
charged that Fay was associated with
Fran i von RIntelen.
There were others Involved with Fay,
Including Walter Rcholi, his brother-in-law,
and Paul Daecne, n German re
servist, who got off with light sentence.
Other assistants of Fay were tried Sep
arately for their share In the plots.
court, and only last Saturday Judge
Hand In the Federal District Court
i si 1sw1srTil n atr rr fnurr
signed an order granting him nn exten
sion of time until September 30 to draw
up the papers In the aopea!. Fay en
tered the prison June 23.
KAISER GALLS WAR COUNCIL
nindenbarc and MacUensen Has
tily Called to Berlin, Is Itrport.
fsrelst Co; Df patch to Thi Sex.
Londow, Aug, ti. The Hague corre
spondent of the Expresi says It Is be
lieved that the Kaiser within the next
few days will hold a council In Berlin
to which Von Hlndenburg, Von Mackcn
sen and other leading generals have
been summoned hastily on the plea that
Germany ln her present necessity needs
the clearest military brains to devise
some scheme of Balvatlon.
It Is not known whether the Crown
nrinee will be summoned, although of
lite he has been seen more frequently
promenading ln Berlin with the Crown
Princess and their children titan at the
front.
BIRD TREATY RATIFIED.
Senate Pots O. K. on Compact With
rltala to Protect Them.
u'kiiinotok. Aug. 2!. The Senate to-
night ratified u. treaty between the United
States ana oreut iirimin to inum-i mi
gratory birds In tho United Stntes and
Canada. , , ,
The treaty, it pact oi wioa scope, sain
to be tho first of its kind ever negotiated,
,. .tirned bv Secretary Lansing ami th
British Ambassador here two weeks ago.
OPERATE ON RICHARD CHOKER.
Diseased Condition nf none of
Face Calla Sargeoa.
DfSLtN, Aug. 29. nirhard Croker,
former Tammany chief, whose Impending
return to New York on account of the
condition of his eyes was recently re
ported, wits operated on heie bt-dny for
a diseased condition of one of the bones
of the fare.
Th operation is said to have bean
successful, and the patient Is doing well
!
TOTAL LOSS, REPORTS
REAR ADMIRAL POND
Twenty Men Coming From
Shore in Motor Boat
Are Drowned.
CASTINE ESCAPES BY
PUTTING OUT TO SKA
Wrecked Warship Former
ly Tennessee, Which Did
Rescue Work in Levant.
Washington, Aug. 29. Rear Admiral
Pond at Santo Domingo city cabled the
Navv n.ruiMm.n, in.ni.k, .t,.. ,. ...
...
mored cruiser Memphis had been swept
upon the rocks by a heavy sea In the
harbor there to-day and would be a
total loss
Although It was expected all on board
the cruiser would be saved the Admiral
reported that twenty men returning to
the ship from ehore leave In a molorboat
had been drowned.
The Admiral's despatch follows:
"Memphis driven ashore by heavy sea,
Santo Domlngb city, wept of lighthouse,
at 4 :30 1". M. She Is lying clone under
bluff, him lines ashore and Is getting
crew off. Heavy sea canfe up suddenly
and ship was unable to get up steam In
time to save herself. Twenty men of
liberty party drowned on way back to
ship.
hln
"Castlne (EUnboat) draceeit fln. in
hut did not strike and got out to sea.
x oUier casualties known. Memphis
will be total loss. Expect to save every-
" on board-"
Admiral Itcnson said to-night that the
construction of the MeinpliU Is such that
,he probably ould withstand a great .
Hmount of jwundlng. He said he wus
puziled over how the accident occurred,
elnce officers of the ship had been
warned eurly to-day of the approach ol
a tropical storm.
Karmerly the Teuneer.
The United States armored cruiser
Mfmph waK formerly the Tennessee.
,. , l.... in -i,,i ,.. .r 1
Hecl.ntly M, Mt.IW,,iiH has been
dolng duty In (Santo Domingo waters In
connection with the revolution in that 1
country. Sho Is a vessel of 14,Cfl0 tons,
with twin screws, nnd has . i horse-power
of 23,000. Her complement Is 'J!Hi men. I
!ne ut tne nagsnip ot ine cruiser force or
. .. , ,. . Atlmtlr fleet
1 Mates Atlantic nt,Pti
W imi.n V" .1 Mrvei. I. 1. SOii.o I I
'
Kerley nnd II .1. Pelrce. Hnslgin l. M.
l ii it ijni..Au Kt i
slstanSiirn'l:
Meara, Passed Assistant tfurgeoti U. Z,
In Philadelphia. She hajl a speed of
more than 22 know an hour nnd Is
armed with four 10 Inch and sixteen 6 '
Inch guns, besides entailer guns. j
llellef Ship In Mediterranean.
Ill 190S the cruiser had u bolter ex-
.""V.' ,,"... ... i,m.i
""tv-M . " . ....sv..
At the outbreak of the present Euro
pean war the cruiser, then the Tennes
see, acted iiH a relief tdilp for Americans
stranded an a result of t lie war. She
carried $.r, 867,000 to Kurope for this pur
nose, and later acted ns a ferry for
Americans between Havre, France, and
trnffllHh jmitN. hrtnirlrtir thousands nf
them from the war sone.
Later tho cruiser sailed for the Medi
terranean, where she nlso vvae used for
relief work, again acting as a ferry for
Syrians and Armenians from Turkish
ports In Asia to Egypt.
While ensa-sed In this work nt Smyrna
tho forts of that city llrcd on n launch
from the cruiser, which was tho cause
of considerable diplomatic correspond
tt . ji,., VVn
ence between the United Stntes and Tur-
key. The launclt wa 'Ted on vvnilo It
wim ,iuiiM. "Jr"' . ' ! ' ' ' "
with Capt. 11. l . Deckar, the commander
of the cruiser, who Intended to make of -
flclal calls. Tlie Turkish commander of
the Smyrna port iilaced the responsibility
for the firing upon tho launch to the "In
difference of the helmsman of the
launch," who did not heed thn warning
of the presence of mines In Smvrna bar
Isor. The commander at Smyrna ex
pressed regret nt the necessity of firing
upon the launch, and the Incident was
closed.
SEEK TOWN TO TEST CURE.
Tnlieri'illoslx Prevention Mivlrty
ntta sir.o.nno to mim-iuI.
Boston, Aug. 29. Dt. H. S, Arm
sluing of New Volli. I cpicsentlng the
Nullonal Association for the Study of
Prevention of Tuberculosis, came to
Massachusetts to-day to seairh for n
town of about 1 no, 000 population on
which to expend 1150,0ml for a scientific
lest In stamping out tuberculosis. Va
rious communities in Massachusetts nnd
New York State will be visited before
the plaro Is selected.
Discussing his quest Dr, Armstrong
said: "We want a town that has some
ludlisliies, because liiberculoHls s a poor
mini's dlsea.c, We don't want u town
of commuters, ns we could not keep
Imrk of them, and yet the town must
not be too far removed from the large
Industrial osatrsa."
iiouensun, urm.ii nursinii it. iinrner, , - ui,u,.. ,,( tnuhniis in,l other ' yesteruav that t had nlaced tin euib irco '"J'ok pinns inr a waiitooi nexi
Passed Assistant Payma-ter K. C. Mcln- "f ", Vies Lned . eni w,", 1, recovered his senses, Von ' 0 tie Lhlv m-nt f ill .e. ls l aid- goods Monday morning at ti o'clock. They an-
tosh, acting Chaplain C V Kills and x"1 um. "resfor. toM tho detective i, was , uw Zftt nouiiced the, e w-ould be no respond to
First Lieutenant of Marines It. .. tihivp. feeding New York and to ''ark ami he was In a lone y iilnce. He Tnlf! wn f , im "calls' Monday and that only two things
urd. kseplng its mvrlad activities nllve with pawled to a house whce llg its be saw. ot .,. ,. Koontr. general fielght ngent ' vBll avert the strike. They are:
The Memphis was launched In 1504 at "1 T(I nasolene . ,llr honln ut A- '' EMol. at 245th street T(u, nnl,,r b1n rUlf ,hat ,hp rilllro.1(1 Meeting of the men's demands by the
the Cramp ShlpbulldltK Company plant , ' Livingston avenue. The Hronx, ami Wll not iiKume resnonslbllitv for the safe roads or Government nctlon such as
Dealers Who Raise Trices
Will Be Punished, Says
Commissioner.
TEN DAYS' RATIONS
ABE IN STORAGE HEBE
i
Dairies Within 400 .Miles
Pledged to Ship by Boats
and Motors.
5.(100.000 POPULACE
MUST STILL BE FED'"0"""' nmn,er M's J- nick-'
I son. general manager lines west, and H.
Roads and Men Are Expect
ed to Yield a Point to
Prevent Famine.
If the tnllroad strike Is called next
Monday lias been set as the tiny New
.. . . . .... i
iorK win nasH into a condition nn- i
proxmntp , martini Inw. Under plans '
. vp,.prdnv ... ,,ollcp Dpr,nrtment I
mne 5estrrdn the I ollce Uopartrnent
pxcrciss nimosi cnuro control ui
'tl,e f','1 a,,d furt f'- !"Plen"
tnt nxl"B of prices nnrt the punish-
ment of those who strive to lift prices
to heights unwarranted even by the
stringency that will follow the stop
page of railroad tmfllc.
A preliminary survey made by Po
lice Commissioner Arthur Woods
showed yesterday that New York's
5,600.000 Inhabitants arc within reach
nt the prcent time of only ten days
rations, commissioner v ooos, who
will nssmne practically a dictatorship,
1.1- .1 . ...n.l; ,n,lnr. .V
... .
to "" ' wa !' anu mva"' ,n B,,ve
host from Mmlne.
Ti,n Commissioner expects the roads
and the bVoMssrlioods will yield a point
on the grounds of humanity so th.tt
tralnloads of food may reach New
York to -allsfv Its vast appetite. I'n-
less1 the trainmen and the ruilroidt ur
rlo nt a truce In this respect the city's
millions will have to acquire the -se-tnrlin
h.iblt or else satisfy their meat
craving with cold storage stuff.
.No Mlllc ShnrBr Threatens.
This fact Is certain: There will b no
, ,ho 'ollre Pep.it ttnent and
'."I'l'iicu ."".''"',', , v..-
yllrk ,,. able to carry out the sclieme 1
vc.i vesteidav. Within this radius
there ure 40.IHI0 dairies, nil of which
i,avu pledged'tliemsolves to semi eveiy
available quart to New nrk It win
not be necessary to gain any concession
from the iiniioaci or me sum. ,- .w,
l.la uiililill.
Commissioner Woods has piomised
the dairymen to take tlielr product Into
town on motor ttucks and boats, At
Hist there vvns objection that the Jolting
tiiieVetitiCHH of the roads might sHill the
mlllv. but now routes have lieeii marked
..i.. H n.,lli t.n.Hnir, to
I out wb ch OIUIi. -u.ooth passage to
tut minor ituvk".
fU "JT" 2f
Also there Is a compilation oi tne num
Problem Is Unit f4nlril.
.
Twice before the Police Depai t.uent
-trained Itself for sn emergency of this
kind The lirst was at tho outbreak of
the war, when the po ke wolklng ror
XlV,l'nTXZ 2ti&ltoilti"lMZ
mlttee. ti ado whiilesjie Inqtilrj , I n o tne
malkets In i nnd lien n r
Woods sent out letters yestcrony to
' -u'hnWAle dealers nnd wholesale pro- I
ducers in every food and fuel commodity, j
The letter read:
"In view of the possibility of .a gen
eral railroad strike It Is of the greatest
Importance that we should bo able to
come to as accurate an estimate as pos
slble of the amount of (here the com-
m.,aitv n-a named) which It Is neces-
garv to bring Into New York weekly
ln order adequately to feed the people of
I the city.
nvit. m
)j)r)W to.)lorr(nv tf poSslhle:
"First, how many carloads or
i r cmnpiil,j. nepa to supply Its regular
1 ,n Npw x-ork?
"SiBrnni Mow munv nrebiought
tnin New X'ork bv rail weekly?
"Third How many weekly In
carloads would He required in our
Judgment to supply the people of the
city properly?"
(lurries Alsti to 14 Ilnllronds.
Ho uddressed letters to tho fourteen
rnllrnnds that bring freight Into New
York to get their statistics on supplies.
Alt the material Is expected to lie In
bund to-day. After It has been collated
the Commissioner tixjiects lo reduce New
York's need to a minimum of rnilonds,
Then he Intends to go to thu load man
agers and tho brotherhood ollkinls, both
of which organizations win establish
strike headquarters here, to plead with
them to let (li s number of cars pass
In operation dally,
The reason New York Is In such strain
Hint the meat und Hour supplies arn but
little over it week's need Is that tho
city has depended altogether upon the
railroads for Its dally food, Storage
rentals In town nre so exorbitant that
denlers hnve found It more ndvantngeous
tn get their supplies for their trade
from dny to day, Hence, save for the
cold stums'! stuff, there Is nothing plied
up ahead,
It Is anticipated that wnen the pinch
Costfnusd on Bteond fag.
...r.T, .7, 1 1 nVviislon arose' wlien the "a,r" n"(1 " diamond pin were gone. At day, This order save the road will not , ,, ...
ago the eeiond occasion arose, wnen ine ,..,., seemwl In a half eoma netvtti ariv live noeli ,.nl. lupI, en.,. V C. Turner, vice-president of the
ZlZlT tScome si iiuhhi"w drugs, which the physicians believe slgnment can reach Its destination by - l;" J' ".Corn, general chair
MM, all this b.fon n n "n hand the " administered after he had been September 4. The road niso says that '" "' same brotherhood, both of
Willi nil mis iiiiurniainin in "aim tue ... .. ,..,.- nr iu ,.n ,,iiu. ,(.i.i,. ti.in. , St, Louis, and K. P. Curt s reached th s
problem bus been hnir s.nve.1. head ind fai-e delay city from Washington. J. M. HrlcU'iouse,
For ts further solution Commissioner head and rare. iieiay. ,',i .,,,. ... .... , ,
TWO ROADS WARN
12,600 EMPLOYEES
j Erie and Susquehanna Issue
Letter Cautioning Against
a Strike.
In a circular letter sent out last night
to their 12,00 employees, the New Tork.
SuAquehantia and Western and the Krle
Railroad companies caution against al
strike and declare such action will nt '
once mean a severance of friendly rela- ,
I Hons between the two companies and
: ,he'r mr !
Thn laMtir waa frnw1 hi V Tt T lopnln '
O. Dunkle. general manager Chicago ril
vision, tloth letters outline the follow-1
Ing action which the companies purpose!
J to take In case., trlk. Is put Into opera- j
i First Employees who remain con
I tlnuously In the sen-Ice will be placed
at the head of the respective service
rotters In the order of their present
ii-i.m.r iiuniiKJii tnereun, unu win nere-
ar,or be considered the senior cm
pioyecs oi tne company.
ann,i rt.... t. .u.
strike do hy'such ne'.Ion leave the ner-
vlce of the tf""Pny. and In so doing
, rBh atI(I prlvllf(f mplovf
cease,
Third Employees who leave the
service may reenter same only at the
option of tho division superintendent,
mid then only ns new employees ; their
position on the roster dating from the
date they are permitted to rcsumo
duty. Ilefnre ngnln entering the ser
yloe they will be required to pass the
physical examination prescribed for
new employees, and will also be re
quired to pass the examination on rules
as prescribed for employees of the
class of service which they enter.
"You are again urged to give the mat
ter careful consideration." the lettor con
cludes. "Think before you strike of nil
that our act Involves. Are your pres
ent grletances so great as to Justify you
... . 1 1 I 1 . . L . . I
.1,11. in .v.. ..,!,.. . .i,. nmnl,n.."
" v
ROBBED OF $14,000 IN
TAXI, BUYER SAYS
SlllP-trpil AS Car SlICll Alollir
oniht ti ns
ilroiulway, Thrown Oin. In-
jurcd. in flroiix.
A toxical) robbery which Involved
blackjacking and drugging a passenger
nn crowded itroadway In mlddtty. carry
ing him to a lonely spot in Klnxs'orlJge
and leaving him there unconscious and
minus $ 14,000 and some v aluable Jewelry
w-as reported to th police of the Fifth
nnincn inter nmiiiiuni tins morning hj
Walter Von Heresford, a fcteel chemist
on a purchasing trip from Mexico to
C.innda, who claimed to have been the
victim of the nttaiit.
Von Heresford says he bosrded 11 taxi
cab at Fourteenth street early In the
afternoon to go to thn Pennsylvania
dluer"" we e m V arhe Z
senger Rllllngly agreed co let them stay.
On the way noith cm Hroadway. how-
ever, he suddenly felt a blow on the
Station. A couple of "ft lends of the
, "' against tue uoor. mr. j.iiioi neaiu
him, took him Inside nnd called an am-
, ,Jllla,0 from KnnHlftm Hospital.
, y Beresfoid. who speaks wilt, a
I n,,rlmln accfnU wnri. two valllaWe
jiHmond rlnirs. The flch of the lingers
"lc,:ra"'" "1",, th" thWv" ha" trl"1
(0 lfnf ht,m nfr bu foulu, thpn) t()l
tigl.t. Ills pockets were rilled und his
IIFT BREAKS LEGS OF NUN,
Mother Josepha llnrt In Mount St
Vincent Hospital.
Mother Josephs, Superior of the Sis
tors of Charity In the archdiocese of
, New York, Is in St. Vincent's Hospital
ss the result of nn elevator accident hist
Wednesday In which both her legs wero
i broken. sue narrowly missed being
raH,K.(1 n dCHtn
i As sho was stepping on tho small pas-
sengcr elevator In tho mother House or
the Sisters of Charity nt Mount St. Vlu-
cent on the Hudson, the tar. which wns
n charge of onu of tho s sters. started
nreinnturelv slid the Mother Superior
wns thrown to the floor. Before the elo-
valor could bo stopped her legs weie
caught between tho elevator and the
flooring. Tho tibia and fibula In boih
legs were broken. One bono protruded
through the flesh.
A prlvato ambulance conveyed Mother
Josephs to St, Vincent's Hospital, whern
she wns attended by Dr. S, J. Walsh,
PUT ON YOUR WRIST WATCH.
Popular fur Year nt I.enM,
Iruellera Assert.
Itetall
tlii'ttiiitviiiu Ami "l Tha U'l'lttr
I ,vatr 'will be more ill vogue than ever
i()efoie, lavnlllercs will remain popular for
nt least another year and ear acrevvn and
brooches will be worn more generally
than for several years, according to
speakers at the annual convention of the
American National Befall Jewelers As
sociation here to-day.
"The wrist wnteh not only Is orna
mental hut to iirnny haa become a ne
cessity," said J, It. THck of Newark,
N, ,l second Vice-president of the nsso
elation, "Bar screws are coming into
favor nipldly. The diamond solitaire, set
i lose to the ear, will lead In popularity.
There will be little chinge In the style of
lavsllleres."
Rush to Transfer Cargoes
in Chicago Prophesies
Big Blockade.
"PERPLEXING DELAY"
WARNING TO PUBLIC
Southern Pacific Says Pas
sengers Must Reach Des
tinations by Sept. 3.
NEW HAVEN ISSUES
EXEMPTION ORDERS
Hl .,. , . ,,,, . . . ,
All Shipments "SllbjeCt tO
.Jfe Ji0SS m( Dailgel'"
Due to Strike.
Railroad olllclals of mwio of tho
largest roads throughout tho United
StateH last nlcht began notifying their
freight deportments not to accept
freight for delivery nfter the night of
September 3. The.e orders were con
fined to the Western und Southern
roads, but It was evident last night .
from tho reports of tho Eastern opera-1
J tlon managers that their roads will j
! follow suit before tht. end of the week.
, . , . I
A great effort was begun yesterday
In Clilcago to transfer thousands of
tons of freight that reaches there dally I
for distribution and delivery to nil .
ports of the countrv. This prophesied 1
..... . .
r EenersI freight eml-nrgo cr. the rsart.-i '
entering that great tr.ifllc point.
The first big Kast.m road otllcl.Ulr '
to nnnouncn a freight embargo Inst
night was the New Haven. Hdwnrd
O. Rlggs, executive assistant to the which there were representatives from ment ln ,,mo to forestall the threatened
president, posted the following notice' many other States. Resolutions were In- walkout of tlm 400,000 railroad men.
"In view of Hits strike !,, .,, 'ft"11"-'''! uilng President Wilson to In-' Indications to-night polnttvl to tho d.
Ill le of the strike order to tV nrbratlo of i t f flcultlcss at i fat of all the President's proposals un-
the commerce of the United Stntes. It be. jBsUe. Chief of Pollen Henley to-day ,"s h" ngret-i to yield to tlm legislator'
""""'J " vunipany 10
refuse to rec. Ive any moie freight loaded
" this notice from connecting rail
or steamship lines, or nt local stations,
f0"'"vlng exceptions:
Mrst. 1-relKht will be received nt
point of Interchange from connecting
rail or steamship lines or at local sta-
tli.ns vvheii with the approval of the
hiiperlntendrnt. the time for transpoita-
tlou Is such It c.in be delivered at des-
tlnatlon not later than such an hour on
September 3 as will penult placing
befoie September .
ami supplies fur the operation of the
.-ennui, i,iipnieni. oi niei, mnieriui
railroad'.
uiijri-f to Delny, I.oss or DniiiMKe.
' All freight received after this notice
will be subject to doluy. loss and dam-
because of the strike so ot dried,
"Kvery effort will be made to move all
freight now on the line or at Junction
points to ilestinatloii and to place for
unloading inlor to September 4. niefer--
tXXn
I sllrn tl(11 ,r " n
T1(, AtPhl.0, Top,KIl m, SAnta ,v
,,,,,, , TripeKi; Kan., announced
, delivery of other shipments The nn-
1 noimcenieiit exsiinlnul Hint the th.em.
I ""j " rlke was ?hs ia usS r. the 1,
,, ,, thp on," .q ,,,
"i,1.""1 or'Ur n0,"" """'
In' Pallas Tex . nt the ceiiei.il offlces
of K'" "SS
o,i( flj embarc ,,a)1 d(.cliirw, nR(1nt
nil perlshnble freight to take effect to-
Passenger Are Warned.
The Southern Pacific Railroad In San
Francisco last night through Its pas
senger trnfllc mnnnger Issued a warning
tn Its passengers that after midnight of
September
'perplexin
throucli
to reach
night of September 3. It was expected
San Francisco last night that similar
instructions would be gtven i reining,
If.eight.
Albert T. lliirdin, vice-president of the
New York Central, said Inst night that,
A. II, Smith, jucsldent of the road, wiu 1
In Washington nnd would not return tin-1
11 to-dav. Tho oiiest on of n fre k it
embargo. Hardin said, would then be
'considered by the directors and manage-
ment of the road
Tho otiiriais of tne unaware, l.ncKa-
wanna it ml Western, through P. ,1.
Fljnn, one of the vlce pre'ldents, said
Inn night thnf the momentous question
'of the bundling of freight after Monday
was seriously discussed by the ofllclnls
of the road yesterday, Mr. Flynn snld
I no definite decision bad been reached,
but It was thought unlikely any definite
position on the pitit of the road would
be announced define Thursday.
It was thought at the executive of -
lllt-S HI lie- t-ir;iiiuit IISIIUMII mm
night that no announcement of tho off).
rials' decision In handling freight would
be given until to-night, That nn em
bargo order was expected within u few
days was apparent lJ.st night from the
atmosphere about thn ofllco of tho gen
eral superintendent, but no Instructions
had been officially received.
Lehigh Valley Undetermined.
John
hn A. Mldilleton, vice-president of
file Lehigh Valley Tlallrond, snld Inst
night that no emoargn oruer nan been
Issued ny tne roan, .ur .miuuicioh said
he vvns not In touch with the operation
of the road, 'Hid did not care to say
Continvtd on second Pogp.
SU.ey might be subjected to , " ,, IV' nl ,,V . " " ' " ""l wl 1 "nt
g delays." They were warned , 7".' "u"",:, .V u hneW aVCT ;,uV , .;,:nr .T. V 1.l.,'"lK' ","' '. for
nil n.issenger and ticket agents ,v " . .. ' 'it nour nay wpnout
lr.. Curtis assumes iharge at Houston, Tex. i the so-called comnulsnrv orhliri .,
CHICAGO LINES LAY
FREIGHT EMBARGO
Handlers Go on Strike Just as
Honda Trcpnrc to Avoid
Congestion.
CittCAOo, Aug. 29. This city, the
largest railroad centre In the world, to
nlht Is confronted with the difficult
task of arranging the transfer of
thousands of tons of perlshnble freight
to Its destination ahc.td of .September 2,
the ijato declared by many railroads to
day for an embargo on such shipments,
with the added handicap of a strike of
SZ !
and prospects of a tralninens' strike to
complote tho tangle.
Ily voto of the International Brother
hood of Freight Handlers' local unions
to-night It was determined to call a gen
eral strlko nt noon to-morrow of nil
freight handlers In Chicago, numbering
about fi.000. iinlcso concesolons demanded
from the employers are granted before
thi, tintl, I
Approximately l.fiOO men nlicndy have
't"lt work. The question al Iw is not
uglier wages uui rigiii ui me uiiiuii iu
i-iil It rt dues from tho members at their
placet of employment.
Th embargo on peilshable freight,
decided on to-day, will affect live stock
principally, Kxceptlonnlly heavy ship
ment of hog.-t, citttli" and sheep to tho
Chlraro and oth.r cities are anticipate,!
btftiu It becomes effective. Tho yards I
!"lnwpatirforha 1
consignments.
Thr "ru twenty-seven railway lines ,
entering Chicago. Plans are being tnailo i
to 0I,rato lralnH wlth non-union men. or'
non-stiikers within the railway brother-
r,?"'JH!fc"T.b.f.l.,.V,. 1 !:!at !.?:
regulnr trnftlc out of "Chicago from the
'"""t'1 the strike Is called, and hope to
build this up to a normal service within
11,1,1. dajs.
conjunction with the efforts of the
"!!.':?' l?"018' .Tai?.f,ur" ,f .111!
cjn1r.1l States gathered to-day In this iTcslderifs nrbltn.tlon plan was ''un
clty In an eleu-rith hour effort to avn d of,.titi,t'ni i... . j V.
a strike.. A conference was held. by the " nm
" 8 "l" L"7"..''i
cancclleil all furloughs of members of
his fore- nnd recalled all absent police-
men to duty.
Thp mnnufacturers' associations repre-1
'seining fourteen States determined to
send u commltlen f nlnete.n to Wash-
ingWn to present the resolution to Pies-
jjent Wilson. The re.olutlon Is a protest
against surrender of the prlndple of nr-
bi'ratlnn nnd a plna for u definite and
permanent urbltru'lou arr.iiiKeinent.
"Kven the temporary loss and suffer-
Ing caused by a strike Is preferable to the
ubandoutnent of the gt eit principle of nr-
imruunn. " t i rcso tition avs. "Unon
It retts the welfare of the neo'nfe
Commission houses, hotels and restnu-
rants to-day began to store up huge
quantities of food In the event of n trike.
Z,rT,n , m,U
llere r"r a
Knough butter and eggs are ill storage
PRFPAPfyn F(ih VTPA'.1 I
1 nP' U r UU IKM-I.
Hrnlherlioinl nfllrlnla .XI n lie IMnm
ST l.oris, Aug. 29. Ualltvav brother-
hood olllclals re.i.hud St. l.ouls to-nlglit
Wnshlngton and Immediately be-
ir";ure or in.) roans.
Among the tlrM to arrive was John
'"non. Mccpresldent of the 1J. of It.
T.. who with M. W. Cadle of Sednlln.
nsslstnnt grand chief of tho II. of L. F.
nnd 1!.. Is to have dlrntlon of the strllie
from S ,''ou,s "''-.arters .Hnnon
Immediately arianged for the opening of
'Vtrlko he.uli,uarlrs" at the American
and K., arrived earlier.
Under orders of the brothehoods' chief-
tains at Washington Turner, with C. 13.
McLaughlin, vice-president of the B. of
L. P. ami n., residing In Omaha, will
i ROADS BUY SUPPLIES.
I Pennsylvania and B, and O. Order
Illunketa and Sheets.
Baltimore, Aug, 29, It became
Known to-nay tnai tue r.iurnans paseing
through Baltimore "re placing largo
orders for supplies to be used by men
who villi Hike tho places of the probnhle
sinning trainmen, i nese supplies aro
being purchased on rush orders and aie
lo bo delivered nt once.
IMwnrt! II, Irwin of Philadelphia, who
1 represents the firm of Wilson ft Brad-
bury, dealers In woollens, was In confer-
cure with the Pennsylvania Ballrond of-
flclals here to-day. Tho railroad placed
OI,ier for 10,000 blankets to be do -
uvered as soon hh possible, A few days
atr) the Baltimore and Ohio Hallrond
1 piil(.t,,j an ordor for Hi.OOO blnnkots and
. IfiQ ilnifln ShdetH.
BLEASE LACKS A MAJORITY.
Indication! of Second Primary for
Gubernatorial .Nomination.
,1 ,.,.1 i, 4.t ,L,a ..rllrn .., V,,n.nu In ,
Coi.uMntA, S. C, Aug. 29. With nbout I recommendation will result In postpon-one-third
of the vote reported unofficial-1 tug thn effective data of tho r.illroid
1.V In the statewide Democratic nrlmary .lirntherhnods' strike order was uncertain
to-day Indications aro that Cole L.
Blenso will have to mako a second race
f,M- the Governorship nomination against
ltlchiird I, Manning, tho Incumbent, or
Hubert A. Cooper.
Please had a long lead over his op-
ponenti, but npparcrrtly lucked tho ma
Jorlty necessary for nomination.
President in Plea to Con
gress Asks Immediate En
actment of Six Bills.
SENATE AND TTOFRE
DIVIDE ON ISSUES
Railway Executives Favor
All and Men Only Part of
Bis Programme.
HOPE OF POSTPONING
STRIKE DATE
Senator J. Hamilton Lewis
Says One Tdea Is "Pn
constitutional." Wabmis-oton, Awe. 2!.- Provdi ut
Wilson after making n perwmiil uiipcnl
before tho Joint session of Congre-s
to-day for leglHlntlon to avert Hi
threatened railroad strike met with
a rebuff In conference! tn.n!,.M i,..
n,cml,fr ot tile Democratic party, a,
wc" M Republican members In both
"l"'
declaring his programme to b.i not
only visionary but revolutionary, a
,,... f .., ,
num,"p of Senators nnd Represents-
"greed that thu 1'rcsMcnt lind
mado a 1" suggesting meiuis
for !"tlllnB tho controversy instead of
nwaltlnu tho "first overt not," an du
rtevelnn.i i ten.
i-ieveinnu in 1S14.
I
!?ennior .lames Hamilton Lewis, the
pcmocratlc whip, asserted th.it the
legislation was in..,olhln . .
ensure aim narrows tlielr scope. Com
I'Ulsory iirbitrntlon arid other featui
. of th" President's plan could go ,vr.
"H urged, until the December session
urivi
it
T1" conferenco brok- up with Mr. Wll-
son standing alone against nil arguments
' Hcltliig bis parting declaration th.it
i1"' "w"ld think It over."
1 T,1 !niocratlr chairman of the tn-
'Tstate Conimercn irotnmltlen of tin-
House, Represeiita' ve V. C. Ailamsuu
"f ''''orgl.i. was emphatic In his deelara-
tlon that the President should limit his
efforts to the minimum of legislation
vvnicn vvouiu servo to nruvent thn striu
HIM of President' Prournmnis
Tho Piesldent's programmo In
cludes: 1. An eight hour day for railroad
employees engaged In Interstate com
merce. 2. Tho creation of n commission
for the Investigation of tho work
nthilty of the eight hour day and of
the wngo iniesilon.-i Involved In the
present tiintiovt ov.
3. The enai ttii.'i-t of ,t law provid
ing, as in the c.iso of Canadian In
dustrial dlsput.v, for an Investiga
tion of railroad controversies Und
prohibiting sttlke.s or lockouts ilur
Ing tho Invcstigntlon.
4. Approval by Congress of the
consideration by tho Interstate. Com-
' merre Commission of Increase In
freight niti-M to meet tlm additional
expenditures made necessiry by the
fight hour day.
5. Granting of power tn tho Presl.
dent In wiso nf military necessity to
seli-.o nnd opcrnto the nillroi.l.s,
6. Knlargrnient nn.l administrative
reorganlrjttlon of tho Interstate
Commerce Commission.
ofistncle. Seem Insuperable.
On the ability of Congien, ln cn-v
nto effect this nmbltlous nroirr.im,,,. h..
. likelihood of a strike now seems to d.
pen.l. Obstacles In the wny of thn ac
compllshment of the programme now
seem almost Insupeialile,
The railroad executives are rii.nnu.,,
thn favorable legislation in regard to ad
vanced rates.
Tho railroad brotherhoods are willing
to accept thn legislative eight hour dav
with sn Investigation of other n.,n.n'.
, by the commission, hut thev will flgh
the proposal to creatn a
method of Investigating labor dlsnules
in iniiim-iinR nn.i I'linoeratls in Con
gress are widely
llvided on the nro
grnmrno and thn Democrats tliemsrlvs-
have been unable thus far to ngrco m
ino i-resntent s recommendation". In
fact, the split In the Denineraii,- riit
Is ho serious that thn President vlsl.ei,
I tho Capitol to-night nnd passed nn hour
lor moro with tho Houso leaders In .
j effort to bring them Into line,
' Chairman Ad.inison of the Houso rnni
mitten on Interstate Commerce, wns on
. posed to the President's proposal r,
compulsory Investigation of labor dls
. putos, nnd he also raised serious ohj-c
tlon to tlm proposal to have Congress
commit Itself In favor of ndvniicrd ratei
Ailamson hns many followers among rh
Domocratls In the Hons ni.d Progress
Ive Hepubllcans havo milled to his sup
port. Strike Date May Be Postponed.
I Whether Presldmt Wilson's leL-lttlatWa
i to-night. Tho biotherhood leaden de
cllned to commit themwlvvs until they
had seen the draft nt t'vi blllt to i,e pre-
sented to Congress.
They Insisted that thev vvrn Mill
standing by tho order wluen called fur a
- 1 general strike nt 7 A M. on September
I 4, and they declared that unless soma
