IGAN
- AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, AUGUST 30, 191(5
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 104
Ativucniivxt r
Rumania King to Personally .Command
EN BREAK
THE ARIZONA REFD
Ml;
Mil
. . ... r. . -.1 t :"
EMPLOYERS AND M
FURIOUS EFFORTS
. PASSES III LAST
IKING
TO CAPTURE
CHINS
EXPECTED RUMANIA
WOULD DECLARE WAR
(By Republican A. P. Leased Wire) i
King Ferdinand of Rumania ha Ordered a general mobilization of his
forces and is reported to have flone to the front personally to take command
of his army. .... . . .
The Rumanians are reported to be making furious efforts to capture
passes in the eastern Carpathians leading into Hungary, and are declared to
be fighting shoulder to shoulder with Russian troops coming from Bukowina.
While Berlirv says that Rumania's attempts to pierce the passes have
been futile, Vienna admits that owing to a "far reaching encircling movement
by strong Rumanian forces, Austrian. advanced detachments have been forced
to withdraw." '
Greece's attitude is still problematical, but unofficial advices to London
express the belief that she soon will throw in her lot with the entente.
A pro-entente demonstration in Athens passed a resolution saying that
if the people were not heard in their demand that Greece join the entente, "we
must take counsel as to what is to be done to minimize he ruin which awaits
us."
Occupation by the Bulgarians of Kavala is declared to have intensified
the feeling of the Greeks, who are said to be willing to follow former Pre
mier Venizelos in any action he may advise. Venizelos is -strongly .pro-en-tente.
None of the belligerents claim any great battles. An attempt by Ger
mans to approach British trenches near Pozieres, stopped by the British, was
the only move made by the infantry on the British lines Tuesday. There still
is considerable artillery activity in this region. t
On the eastern front from the Riga region to the Carpathians in Galicia,
the day passed without momentous happenings. In the Caucasus region
near Lake Van, Russians have gained additional successes over Turks.
The Serbiam in the Macedonian theater are continuing their advance to
ward Vetrenik, and also have repulsed strong Bulgarian attacks northwest of
Lake Ostrovo. Bombardments are proceeding in Lake Doiran region and
along the Vardar river.
Austrians are still shelling Italian positions in the lower Isonzo region, the
upper Cordevole valley, and in the val of the But and Fella rivers. In the
Posina valley, on Monte Cimone, and near the Aviso the Austrians have been
forced to give further ground. Italians captured Monte Caunol, at an altitude
of 8,000 feet.
Field Marshal von Hindenburg, who recently was given the command of
all the German forces on the Russian front, has now been appointed chief of
the German general staff in succession of General von Falkenhayn, dismissed
by the emperor.
Final Victory for Allies.
PETROORAD. Aug. 29. (Via Lon
don). Rumania's entrance into the war
Is generally interpreted as an omen of
final victory for the allies by Russian
official circles and the press. The fact
that Rumania- entered the war only
after careful arnf mature calculations,
is, according to the petrograd news
papers, "a satisfactory ui-:cation of tike
growing belief among neutral nations
that Germany is a beaten nation, and
more particularly that Germany's in
fluence in the Balkans is waning."
The two most immediate effects of
Rumania's action will be a union of the
western Russian and Macedonian1
fronts, it is felt here, and a pronounced
improvement in General Sarrail's posi
tion, due to the Bulgarian necessity of
transfering a .large number of troops
from the Saloniki theater to meet an
attack on the northern boundary.
Among the more indirect results, ac
cording to press opinion, was its ef
fect on Greece, where, it is thought,
the atmosphere of doubt and vacillation
will be cleared "by Rumania's decision.
Colonel Shumsky, the military critic
of the Bourse Gazette, says:
Hnlpn rill will he comneltpfl tn altnn-
don active operations in Macedonia '
and will have to face the serious dan-
Republlcan A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, (Monday) August 28.
Entente diplomatic representatives
here expressed no surprise at Ru
mania's declaration of war on Austria
as its date had been known for some
time. Officials were unwilling to ad
mit this, however, because a day for
the action set early in the month pro
duced nothing. The failure then was
said to be due to withdrawal by Russia
of concessions promised to Rumania.
OFF NEGOTIATION
AFTER
JOINT SESSION OF CONGRESS
Later the British foreign office brought
about an understanding between Rus- tine
sia and Rumania. j have any difficulty in establishing an
1 The final declaration of war ends a j understanding as the diplomats believe
! long stubborn contest for Rumanian I the Greek king is not pro-German but
aid. Overtures were made from the 1 has been huntstly pursuing a course
beginning of the war by both sides, he thought best to keep his country
I but with Bulgaria's entrance into the out of the wa'r.
conflict Rumania s intentions were i
I eclipsed on her food products.
When the entente powers determined
! to embark on an extensive military en
terprise from Suloniki, Rumania bulked !
1 still larger on the diplomatic horizon.
I The central powers redoubled their ef-
' forts to persuade tier to remain neutral
; while the entente nations busied !
themselves in
! mak. III, confessions kninunui 1-0.
i quested. j 1 po-ic fi firm - fl d vn nrPi" th P crisis to n stno-p wViptp iha novf rlpvolrmYnont-c
It is not expected that King Constan- " ' V - w -, viV nwiu uviiuvuw
and ex-Premier Venizelos wiil
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, August 29. President Wilson, laying the rail-
SoRumnre" wa strike situation before congress today with recommendations for
COMMISSION
IS MAKING ITS
II EMI
ger of an allied advance into her ter
ritory from the north, rtumanla, on the
other hand, will have only one import
ant front to defend, since her strong
natural boundary prevents serious dan
ger from- the side of Austria."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, Aug., 29.
Alberto J. Pani and Ignacio Boni
llas. Mexican commissioners, passed
; through here tonight with their fam
i llieu on their way the Portsmouth
'; conference.
Senor Bonillas, speaking for Senor
Pani also reiterated that the question
I of troop withdrawal would oe the
j first to be considered at Portsmouth
i and said that a joint border patrol
' probably would be suggested. He
expressed optimism over the result
of the conference and said that the
three American commissioners were
, ery favorably regarded by the Mex
l ican government.
Dismisses Von Falkelhayn.. ulV?de-d
BERLIN, (Via Copenhagen to Lon-1 ,0CH"lUAllTA ,TT' Mexico Au..
don.) Aug. 30.-The emperor has dis- 29"7"A or"" " government troops
missed Gen. Erich von Falkenhavn and u'M,r tUQneT? I'"0 has surround
appointed Field Marshal von Hinden- ; ed Sat" i f', mile,s s?."th , of. hr?'
burg chief of the general staff. CW? by H a bandits last Fri-
The recent appointment of von Hin- 1 ,,ay- (;cn,t ral Jc,T;to Tr,ev""
denburg to the supreme command of- ""'"' toht. He said that the
the German armies on the Russht ! ');"a's- fwhoH n,um,'er three hundred
fr.mt came when Rumania was, MnSW. be forced to give battle withir
ered on the wnr. ii ,il'n next Jew hours. However, it I
EMGHES ARE
ORDERED 81 ALL
GOTHAM LINES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Aug. 29. The an
nouncement here tonight tiy the New
Haven railroad that, because of the im
pending raiiroad strike, it would refuse
all shipments of freight which can not
depend upon two points. They are:
Whether the legislation he proposes can be passed;
If enacted, will it be effective to prevent a strike already called for 7
a. m., September 4.
The brotherhoods, announcing their intention to fight certain por
tions of the president's program, are at loggerheads over whether its
enactment would prevent the strike.
The railway presidents favorable to President Wilson's plan in the
main, think it would make it difficult for the strike to begin.
Meanwhile, although negotiations between the employers and men
were broken off today by the rejection of the railway presidents' latest
proposal lor arbitration, President Wilson is continuing his efforts to
bring the two sides together on some form of agreement. Efforts which
might be described as almost superhuman are being exerted to that end
tonight. . . . '
When the brotherhood Iparlprci this moVnincr rpippfprl tViP Iupc nvn.
be delivered before 7 a. m. September 4, , , r , , , V . 7 , , -V v w
brought out the fact that similar aC- posal oi the railroads and definitely set the strike for Labor Day without
Hon is being considered by the other! j' t i , rtrn , . i i , i .1 , , .
r1Urt1far5in ViceVrident of the ! urther notice President Wilson decided to lay the whole situation before
Se t' pr".' waf expti I con.ress- Bef ore a joint session of house and senate, and with a solemn
""SnV'.n oi xne aistress tne strike would ormg to tne country, the president
proposed a pian or legislation.
verge ot decision, and
merman newspapers indicated that it
had a political bearing. Germany was
known that the bandits under Martin
! Lopez, have been strengthening their
credited with the belief th.nt ih. V.. position since capturing the town and
nge oi von Hindenburg wouic favor
ably impress Rumania.
As chief of staff von Hindenburg
doubtless will be withdrawn from the
east to Berlin.
ueneral von Ludendorf has heen
btlsk ens:agemtnt is expected
Reports from General Andres Ar
rieta, whr. recently engaged a Villa
force, numbeiing about one hundred
nenr Corraies on the Rio Florido in
southern Chihuahua, said that 25
credited with lending valuable aid to I1'? fha!(lits j1'" 7" unte. " the
,on Hindenburg in his successes over
the Russians.
Genera! von Falkenhavn earlv in the
(Continued on Page Two)
HUGHES IN DANGER?
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHEYENNE, Wyo., Aug. 29. The
police of northern Colorado have been
warned by the local authorities to
watch for a man believed to be A. L
Cans, of Chicago, whose actions here
in connection with the visit of Charles
E. Hughes has been the Subject of an
Investigation.
According to the police, GanS was
ejected from the Hughes special Friday
night and said that his presence was
due merelv to curiosity. The police
say Guns visited the hotel where Mr.
Hughes stopped over night.
According to the police, Gans, while
at another hotel yesterday, exhibited
several pioces of burned time fuse and
remarked, "You fellows did not search
my grip the other night."
According to I'ndersheriff Nelson
Perry, proprietor of the hotel, Gans left
here yesterday morning saying, "You'll
hear from me soon."
The police believe he departed for
Fort Collins. A search of his room,
according to the police, indicated ex
periments with time fuses and that
utensils had been used to mix chemicals.
nattletield and that in their flight hi
the river the outlaws are carrying a
number of wounded.
The bodv of the Villa leader, Fer
nlza, killed in an attack upon govern
ment troops at the Coyote ranch re
cently was taken to Torreon yester
day and placed on public exhibition.
More than six thousnd residents of
the town filed pass the bier, General
Samuel 8antos reported.
would be gone into.
Delaware, Lackawanna and Western
officials discussed the subject, but .
reached no definite decision. Mr. I 1 his is the proposal in his own lan-1
Flynn said the road's position probably sif?:
would be announced by Thursday I r irst. 'immediate provision for the
mornmp. enlargement and administrative reor-
The Pennsylvania and other roads JIlllBI ul miersiaie commerce
lere probably will announce their posi- i commission along the lines embodied
ions in a day or two. l,lc leuemiy passea oy tne nou.se
Inquiry among railr.jc.J electors and'01 representatives and now awaiting
important financial interests affiliatea ,"-""" oy me senate, in orner mat tne
ith railroads, indicated no change of i commission may oe enaoied to deal
Attitude in respect to the strike situa- j wlt" tne many great and various duties
ion. Although the negotiations at ! '"'w uevoiving upon u witn a prompt-
Washington have been in charge of ! ness and a thoroughness which are.
he railroad presidents it is understood ; with its present constitution and means
ere that the ultimate decisions in their oi action practically impossible.
dealings with the employes and the I -'Second, the establishment of an
(resident, have with few exceptions, eight-hour dav as the lesal basis
rested in the hands the executive alike of work and of wanes in the em-
rommittee, many of wi . are the most ployment of ail railway employes who
mportant financiers c the country, are actually entraeed in the work i,t
One of them said today that the last oueratniir tmins in intersrare transmir.
word on the railroad side had been ' tation.
said. I
Congress, it was pointed out, has not '
the power to prevent a strike by en
acting the president's legislation, but it
was strongly hinted that the railroads
might call into question the constitu
tion of the proposal to enforce an eight-
hour day.
Although it was given out in Vash-
Zapata Campaign Subdued
CCERNAVAC. Aug., L'ti, (via Mex
ico City. Aug., 2!(.) General Pablo
Gonzales, commanding the constitu
tlnnalist forces opposed to those of
Fmiliano Zapata in the state of
Morelos. the Zapata stronghold, today
authorized Thf) Associated Press to
nnnor.nce that the armed campaign in
.Morelos has been satisfactory sub
dued and henceforth there would be
no more bandit attacks.
Municipalities have been provided
v.ith the necessary authorities and
(Continued on Page Two)
U. S. Cruiser Driven Ashore
Twenty Are Believed Lost
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN DOMINGO, Aug., 29. The
United Slates armored cruiser Mem
phis was d.-lven ashore on the rocks
of the outer harbor today by a great n,
and sudden ground swell. It is said
that many lives were lost as a result
of the disaster. All fires under the
boilers of the Memphis were extin
guished bv the in-rush of water.
The T'nited States gunboat Castine
managed to escape by putting to sea.
house at 4: SO p. m. She is l'"ng
close under bluff; has lines ashore
and is getting crew off. Heavy sea
cHinc up Huoaemy and ship was un
to pel n; steam in time to save
The t'nited States cruiser Memphis
formerly was the armored cruiser
Tennessee. He name was changed
May last, recently she -has been
doing duty in San Domingo waters
in connection with the revolution.
The Memphis is of 14,000 tons and
has a horsepower of 2X000. Her
complement is 990 men. She is the
flagship of the cruiser force of the
United States Atlantic fleet.
Captain U. L. Reach commands the
Memphis.
herself. Twenty men of liberty party
oiowneo on wa back to ship. Cas
tine (gunboat) dragged close in but
did net strike and got out to sea. No
other casualty known. Memphis will
be total loss. Expect to save every
body on board."
y The navy department received word
tonight through unofficial sources
that the crew of the Memphis, was
bring rescued. Rear Admiral .Wil
"im P. Tnxon. chief of operations
and actimr secretary, Kf.id he was not
inclined to believe the report that
number of lives had been lost.
The message follows:
"Terrible weather in harbor. Mem
phis ashore. Crew being disembark
ed. More than 20 men lost with
motor boat. Castine safe at sea."
Admiral Benson explained that the
construction of the Memphis is such
that t:he practically would withstand
a large amount of pounding, allow
ing for rescue of those aboard. He
"aid he was puzzled over how the
ncci'lent occurred, since officers o
the ship hod been warned early to
itn of approach of a tropical storm.
Will Be Total Loss
WASHINGTON, Aug., . 29. Rear
Admiral Pond at Pan Domingo city
cabled the navy department tonittht
that the armored cruiser Memphis
sept upon the rocks bv a heavy sea
in the harbor there today, would be
a total loss, and although It was ex
pected all on board would be saved,
'M men -returning to the ship from
Hl'oie leeave in a motor boat had heen
drnwned.
The Admiral's dispatch follows:
Memphis driven ashore by heavy
Grand Army Veterans in
the Fiftieth Encampment
Republican A. P. Leased WireJ .
KANSAS CITY.'August 29. Veter
ans of the Grand Army of the Republ;,
crowding i:o Convention hall, to
night held the first public meeting of
their fiftieth annual encampment.
Speeches of welcome were made by
Governor Arthur Capper of Kansas
and Mayor George H. Edwards of Kan
sas City, to which replies were made
by Captain Elias R. Monfort, of Cin
cinnati, the cortimander-in-chief. and
sea, Sau Djhiingo City, west of light the presidents of the eight affiliated
organizations.
. The encampment was fully opened
today and with tonight's meeting the
way was cleared for the annual parade
tomorrow and the business meetings to
follow. Leaders predicted tonight that
at least 25,000 visitors a majority
whom were wearers of the bronze army
button, had arrived here tonight.
It was said the number of women
Visitors was larger than had been ex
nected. They1 are present in com
pany with the veterans.
"Third, the authorization of the ap
pointment by the president of a small
oody of men to observe the actual re
suits, in experience, of the adoption of
the eight-hour day in railway trans
portation alike for the men and for
the railroads; its effects in the matter
of operating costs, in the application of
in
calling the strike at this
ngton recently that the president might no existing practices ana agreements
all the controlling interests to the. "r , .
apitol for-discussion, such an invita- i practical aspects, with the provision
tion has yet to be received. Nor have '""6" "" i'"
these interests any present intention, it conclusions to tne congress at tne
wns learned, of publicly entering the 'earliest possible date, but without rec-
oiiiioeiiuiiLioiis iiasiu ie&iaiiiue action
jituation.
Santa Fe Declares Embargo.
TOPEICA, Aug. 29. At least one-
third of the freight business of the
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe railroad
will be cut off as the result of an em
bargo declared today against shipments
f perishable goods and live stock, ac
cording to J. R. Koontz, general
fretght agent, through whom the order
was issued.
The order became effective imme
diately. The order will eliminate the
use of all refrigerator cars and will di
rectly affect melon and fruit shippers,
who ane now in the midst of their
shipping season, as well as stock
raisers with fattened animals ready
for market.
Same From Other Roads.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 29. Railroad
managers here said that all lines prob
ably would take action similar to that
ordered by the Santa Fe to protect
themselves in case of &. trike. but that
no concerted action had been agreed
(Continued, on Page 1'hree)
-o
Believes Strike if
Galled Will Not
Bring Violence
Republican "A. P. Leased Wire
LOS ANGELES, August 29. D. W.
Campbell, assistant general manager
of the Southern Pacific, issued a state
ment here today in which he ex
pressed the belief that the railroad
strike if called next Monday will not
be marked by violence.
"This strike is not one in which we
may expect any property damage," Mr.
Campbell said. "The engineers, fire
men, conductors and other members of
the brotherhoods affected are a fine
body -of men. They have families, in
a large part own their homes and have
made savings.
"They expect that the roads will be
forced to accede to their demands
through the force of economic pre?
sure. We, on our side, do not believe so.
The issue will probably be joined
on this basis in case of strike, and fr
me instructions issueu to tne 'various
"Fourth, explicit approval by the
congress of tne consideration by the
interstate commerce commission of an
increase of freight rates to meet such
additional expenditures by the rail
roads as may have been rendered by
the adoption of the eighthour day and
which have not been offset by admin
istrative readjustments and economies,
should the tacts disclosed justify the
increase.
"Fifth, an amendment of the exist
ing federal statute which provides for
the mediation, conciliation and arbitra
tion of such controversy as the present
by adding to it a provision that in case
the methods of accommodation now
provided Sor should fail, a full public
investigation of the merits of every
such dispute shall be instituted and
completed before a strike or lockout
may lawfully be attempted.
" Sixth, the lodgement in the hands of
the executive of the power, in case of
military necessity, to take control ui
such portions and such rolling stock of
the railways of the country as may be
required for military use and to oper
ate them for military purposes, with
authority to draft into the military ser
vice of the United States such train
crews and administrative oiticiais as
the circumstances require for their
fe and efficient use."
Immediately alter the president had
delivered his s-ecommendatkms, con-!
gress set about to see how they might
be enacted into law. The senate inter
state commerce committee, which has
before it bills prepared td carry out
the plan, did not get a quorum and will
meet tomorrow morning. the house
leaders announced their intention of
waiting on the senate's action.
Tonight President uson had a con
ference in Speaker Clark's room at the
capital. Besides the president and the
speaker, the conferees included Re
publican Leader Mann, oemocraiic
Leader Kitchin, Representative Ster
ling, ofl Illinois, the ranking republican
of the house interstate commerce com
mittee, and Representative Adamson,
the chairman. No definite conclusions
were reached.
President Wilson takes the position
that in view of his recommendations to
congress the brotherhoods have noth
ing to gain and much to lose if they
carry out their strike order, because
he believes tinder such circumstances
public ooinion will stand against them.
The president intends to use all his
influence to hasten action In congress.
Jbut should there be delay he intends to
persist
time.
The president expects the public to
make known to the brotherhoods its
opposition to a strike regardless of the
merits of the controversy. ,
Meanwhile the railway heads pre
pared themselves for a stike. Orders
not to accept perishable freights for
shipment already have been issued by
many lines. No instructions were is
sued to prospective passengers that
unless they could complete their jour-
nevs before 7 a. m. Monday they would)
risk delays. Many of the railway pres
idents left for their headquarters, an
nouncing they wished to be near their
properties. The managers' committee
has full authority to deal with the
workmen, it was rumored here.
Both sides issued what appeared to
be their last statements to the public
in justification of their acts.
The railway presidents sumrrip.r;zed
the important points developed by ther
deliberations as follows:
"A renewed insistence upon the
principle of arbitration as the only
proper method of settling labor dis
putes. The railroads have given the
employes every possible consideration
in this respect by offering to arbitrate
their differences either through the
interstate commerce commission un
der the Newlands act or by a com
mission to be selected by the president
of the United States.
"An increased realization of the
responsibility of the railroads towards
their other employes, the shippers,
the industrial, commercial, and gen
eral public, which they have been
made to fuel by thousands of tele
grams insisting upon the maintain
ed e of their position."
The brotherhoods expresed their
unalterable opposition to President
Wilson's plan to compel public in
vestigation in a statement signed by
Messrs. Garretson, Stone, Carter and
Lee which sr.id:
FREIGHT HANDLERS
MAY STRIKE TODAY
P
CHICAGO, Aug. 29. By vote of
the International Brotherhood of
Freight Handlers local unions to-
I night it was determined to call a
I general strike at noon tomorrow
I of all freight handlers in Chicago, I
numbering about 6,000, unless con-
! cessions demanded from the em-
I plovers are granted before that
I hour.
n n
"Since the abolition of slavery no
more effectual means has been de
vised for inpuring the bondage pf the
working man than the passage of the
compulsorv investigation acts of the
character of the Canadian indutsrial
disputes act."
Th issue of these two statements
was the formal announcement of the
final positions of two great forces.
The day's developments fairly
tumbled over on? another. President
Wilson haing heard that the strike
had been definitely set for Labor dav
and anticipating that the brother
hood heads would reject the latest
proiKjsai of the railway presidents,
worked practically all night on his
address to congress.
At a. m. the railway presidents
asked for an audience at the White
House and the president received
them. Secretary Tumulty, meanwhile,
delivered to the brotherhood heads
the kit st propes:;! that the men ac
cede to an investigation, permit the
interstate commerce commission prac
tically to impound the pay the men
wouid receive if they won -their de
mands, and let the men decide at the
end of tho invesl'gation whether to
strike or arbitrate. It was promptly
refused by the leaders.
The railway presidents then revert
ed to the position they assumed at
the outset of the negotiations.
President Wilson, realizing thai their
latest proposal would not be accept
ed by tho workers, told the railway '
executives he was sorry it had been
presented and bade them goodbx, '
saying:
"God help you; I cannot."
The brotherhood heads having
knowledge of the president's propos
al for compulsory investigation an
nounced their intention to fight it in
congress and if possible to get separ
ate votes on that and the eight-hour
day proposal which they favor, hop
ing to beat the former and enact the
latter into law. Generally they - ex
pressed satisfaction with the presi
dent's address, feeling that it hit the
railroads harder than it did them.
Although the railway presidents
feel that in the face of President
ilijon's suggestions for legislation
the employes cannot afford to strike,
.hey have not overlooked any ele
ment of preparation for the strike
order.
Provision has been made to police
every mile of track and yards of all
the great eastern systems where the
brotherhoods are particularly strong.
(Continued on Page Two)
To Move Thousands of Cars
of Freight Before the Strike
ioages oy leaders themselves we are
assured that they view the situation appeal to the patriotism of the leaders
as I have outlined it'.,',' - and their duty to the public not to
Republican A.i P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, August 29 Chicago, the
greatest railway center in the world,
sought in the face of local difficulties
today to transfer thousands of cars of
freight in time for the cars to reach
their destinations before September 2,
the date declared by many western
railroads tonighl) for an embargo on
perishable freight.
A strike of freight handlers in the
local yards of Beveral roads, which
threatened to become general within
24 hours, hit Chicago just at the time
railway officials were swamped with
transfer traffic, shipped up before the
threatened trainmen's strike.
The railway lines entering Chicago
have been prepared, however, to handle
an enormous amount of freight east
and west within the next week.
The embargo on perishable freight,
railway officials said, will principally
affect livestock. Exceptionally heavy
receipts of hogs, cattle and sheep at
the Chicago, Kansas City, East St.
Louis and other markets are antici
pated before the embargo becomes ef
fective. While railroads were striving to pro
vide for the strike, manufacturers of
the middle west gathered in Chicago
in an eleventh hour attempt to find
some means of avoiding it. At a con
ference, called by the Illinois Manu
facturers' Association and attended by
representatives of similar organiza
tions from various states, resolutions
were adopted urging . that President
Wilson insist on the principle of ar
bitration. Some of the officials sajll they would
operate twenty-five per cent of tho
regular traffic out of Chicago from the
minute a strike was declared and could
make this service practically normal
within thirty days.
Police Chief Healey today issued or
ders cancelling all furloughs of mem
bers of his force and recalling all
members who are on furloughs.
