MARKETS
WEATHER
ARIZONA: Wednesday,
fair in south.
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Aug. 23, 26.354
VMOZIbV 'XiNSOMd i
Associated Press Special Lep.sed Wire Service.
VOL.19. NO. 81.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, AUGUST 30, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
Q16
DO
EALS
(E LEGISLATION
PRESIDENT APPEARS
PERISHABLE
FREIGHT IS
CUD
BY ROADS
Southern Pacific, Santa Fe!
and Eastern Roads Put An!
Embargo on Shipments of!
Goods Liable to Damage.
OTHER FREIGHT MAY
BE GREATLY DELAYED
Chicago Situation Is Further
Complicated By a Threat
ened Strike of the Freight
Handlers Ask Concessions
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NEW YORK, Aug. 29. The an
nouncement by the New York, New
Haven and Hartford R. R. that be
cause of the impending railroad strike
it would refuse all shipments which
cannot be delivered by 7 a. in. on Sep
tember 4, brought out the fact that
similar action is being considered by
the other roads entering the city.
Albert Hardine, vice-president of
the New York Central, said tonight
that V. H. Smith, the president, was
expected from Washington tomorrow
and the question of an embargo prob
ably would be gone into. '
Deleware. Lackawana and Western
officials discussed the subject but
made no definite decision. Mr. Glynn
said the road's position probably
would be reached Thursday morning.
The Pennsylvania and other roads
here probably will announce their po
sition tomorrow. Inquiry among rail
road managers and Important finan
cial concerns affiliated with railroads
indicated no change of attitude with
respect to the strike situation. Al
though the negotiations at Washing
ton have been in charge of the rail
road presidents the ultimate dealings
with the men rest with the executive
committee of the various roads, many
of whom are the most important finan
ciers of the country. One of them
said today that the last word on the
railroad side had been said.
Congress, it was pointed out, has
not the power to prevent a strike by
enacting the President's legislation,
but it was strongly hinted that the
railroads might question the constitu-'
tionality of the President to enforce
his plan.
Freight Handlers Threaten
CHICAGO. Aug. 29. Chicago, the
greatest railway center in the world,
sought in the face of local .difficul
ties today to transfer thousands of
cars of freight in time for the cars to
reach their destinations before Sep
tember 2 the date declared by many
western roads tonleht for an embargo
on perishable freight.
A strike of freight handlers in the
local yards of several roads which
threatened to become general within
24 hours, hit Chicago just at the time
railroad officials were swamped with
traffic, sped up because of the threat
ened trainmens' strike.
By vote of the International broth
erhood of fri-ht handlers' local un
ions tonicht it was determined to call
a general strike at. noon tomorrow of
nil freight handlers in Chicago, num
bering about 6.000. unless concessions
demanded from the employers are
granted before that hour.
The railroads entering Chicago have
been preparing, however, to handle
an enormous amount of freight east
and west within the next week.
The embargo on perishable freight,
railway officials sav. will principally
effect live stock. Exceptionally hea
vy receints or hoes, cattle and sheep
at the Chicago. Kansas City. East St.
Louis and other markets are being
rushed before the embargo takes ef
fect. Railway officials are making plans
to operate trains with non-union
men. or non-strikers in the railway
brotherhoods' membership. In even
of a strike. Porn" of the officials said
they would onrate twenty-five ner
cent of the regular traffic o'lt of Chi
cago fmm the minute a strike was
declare frd con'd r"nke this service
(Continued on Page Five.)
United States Cruiser Memphis Driven
Ashore In the Harbor of San Domingo
(By Review Leased Wire.)
! WASHINGTON, Auk. 29. Hoar Admiral Pond at San Domingo City
I rabled the Navy Department tonight that the armored cruiser Memphis.
which was cast on the rocks by a heavy sea in the harbor there today.
1 would be a total loss and, although it was expected all on board would
1m saved, twenty men returning to the ship from shore leave in a motor
boat had been drowned.
The 1'nited Slates Gunboat Castine managed to escape hy putting to
sea.
CREW BEING RESCUED.
WASHINGTON. Aug. 29. The Navy Department received word to
night through unofficial sources that the crew of the cruiser Memphis,
'driven asr.'iore at San Domingo today, was being rescued. Rear Admiral
William S. Benson, chief of operations and acting secretary, said he was
not inclined to believe the report that a number of lives had been lost.
The United States Cruiser Memphis formerly was the armored
cruiser Tennessee. Her name was changed May 25, last. Recently she
lias been doing duty in San Domingo waters in connection with the
revolution. The Memphis is of 14,500 tons and has a horsepower of
23,000. Her compliment is 990 men. She is the flagship of the cruiser
force of the 1'nited States Atlantic fleet. Captain K. I Beach commands
the Memphis.
GENERAL MOBILIZATION ORDER
ISSUED BY RUMANIAN KING, WHO
GOES TO FRONT WITH HIS FORGE
New Balkin Ally Wins Unimportant Success in the Passes
Which Lead to Hungary Greece Expected to Throw in
Her Lot With Entente Very Soon Berlin Minimizes the
Effect of Entrance Into War of Ferdinand's Country.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
King Ferdinand of Rumania has ordered a general mobilization of his
forces and is reported to have gone to the front personally to t-ik'j command
of hia army.
The Rumanians are reported to be making furious efforts to capture passes
in the eastern Carpathians leading into Hungary, and, are declared to be
fighting shoulder to shoulder with Russian troops coming from Bukowina.
While Berlin says that Rumania's attempts to pierce the passes have been
futile, Vienna admits that owing to a "far reaching encircling movement hy
strong Rumanian forces, Austrian advanced detachments have been forced
to withdraw."
Greece's attitude is still problematical, but unofficial advices to London
express the belief that she soon will throw in her lot with the entente.
A pro-Entente demonstration in Athens passed a resolution saying that if
the people were not strong in their demand to Greece to join the entente,
"we must take counsel as to what is to be done to minimize the ruin which
awaits us."
Occupation by the Bulgarians of Kavala is declared to have intensified
the feelings of the Greeks, who are said to be willing to follow Former Prem
ier Venizelos in any action he may advance. Venizelos is strongly pro
entente. None of Uhe belligerents claim anyl .
great battles. An attempt by Ger-
mans to approach British trenches! t,1Patre to mpot an attack on (he
near Pozieres, stopped by the British, nortllprn boundary. Among the more
was the only movement made by the' indirect resutIs. according to press
infantry on the British lines Tuesday. I ODinion- will be its efTect on Greece,
There still is considerable artillery j where- !t is thought, the atmosphere
activity in this region, however. of doubt and vacillation will be clear
On the eastern front from the Riga;ed bv Rumania's action. Colonel
region to the Carpathians in Galicia Shumsky. the military critic of the
the day passed without momentous) Bourse Gazette, says:
happenings. In the Caucasus region, j "BlKaria will he compelled to
near Lake Van. the Russians have! abandon active operations in Mace
gained additional successes over the' don,a and will have to face the ser
Turks. ions danger of an allied advpnee into
The Serbians, in the Macedonian I hpr territory. Rumania will hve but
theatre, are continuing their advance, one important fr-nf to defend."
toward Vetrenik, and also have re-!
pulsed strong Bulgarian attacks) 'FRISCO IS SOLD.
northwest of Lake Ostrovo. Bombard-'
ments are proceeding in Lake F. Dor- ST. I-OFIS. Ane. 29 The sale of
rian region and along the Vardar
River, i rf,ad to the renrtran lotion mnnifers
Atistr'nns are still shelling Italian was confirmed n the federal district
positions in the lower Isonzo region.! co,,rt nprP hv J"dre Sanborn,
the upper Cordevole vallev. and in I T',e 8a,p was approved over the
the valley of the But and Feila rivers. Protest of nine creditors who said
In the Posina vallev. on Monte Cimone that provision should be made for un
and near the Aviso the ' Austfans . "wred creditors.
have been forced to give further, J'"1 Sanborn sa'd that the sale
ground. Italians captured Monte ' ,nP"' onnortimitv to secure 5
Cauriole. at an altitude of R000 feet. I Percent of their collections and that
Field Marshal von Hindenhurg. who' 'f the road had not been reorganized
recentlv was given the command of '"v ro"''' p,r" ythine.
all the German forces on the Russian T,,p Ttco 'ill he turned over
front, has now been appointed chief to the new comnany. chartered a feu
of the German general stff in sue-, davR o at Jefferson City. Mo., and
cession of General von Falkenhayn.
dismissed by the Emperor.
OMEN OF FINAL VICTORY
IS RUMANIAN'S ACTION
PETROGRAD. Aug. 29 (2 p. m.) via ,
trance into the war is generally inter
preted as an omen of final victory for
the allies hv Russian official circles
and the press. The fact that Ru
mania entered the war onlv after care-
fill nf mntiifA consideration Is com-
. , . - ...
mented on 'n Petrograd papers as a
- . , ... . I
satisfatcory Indication of the growing I
belief among nations that Germany is I
a belligerent nation and the German
influence in the Balkan Is waning."
The two most immediate effects of
Rumania's action wMl he union of the
western Russian and Macedonia I
frontiers. If is felt here, and a pro-1
nounced improvement in General
Parrail's position, due to the Bulgar-j
ian necessity of transferring a large'
number of troops from the Saloniklj
"ie st- Louis and San Francisco Rail-
lllp receivership win enn
OFORGE TO FEROINANn
LONDON Atie. 29 Kinr Oorce
has sent this cnnprnl uhilnrv mesmiee
(o Kin yl of Rumania:
j "i destre to exnress to yonr ninics
! tv the crest satisfaction w'th which
the news of th" entrv of nimmnin in-
j'to the wtr his been received hv mv-
petf ap-l m lfVemment Jni the
whole British nrti'n. I reloien thnt
the vplient Rumanian ar"v will nVht
side bv side with the arniies of the
"i""'" " n-rer te n
prodchinc t'lim nh of onr irr-at muse
pnrt hn!tining Ihrehv tho fulfillment
of Ri'iimiinn na'lnnal psnirnf ions "
Ton M"V C'nSSc5
cnft-vn am-v vH l."-nn .A.,,
'",-T," Kiel -Hun. th-t 41ft.
00" iron crosses have been conferred
n to th present, of which 420.OO0
were of the second class.
BOOTLEGCERS SENTENCED.
TOMBSTONE. Alls. 29 (Spe
cial) (). S. French. C.us Wiltle
Frank lirady aud Otto Breuline,
all convicted in the superior
court of selling liquor, a ere
sentenced to spend fourteen
months in jail and pay a fine of
j:suo. ,
The residi nts "jf Douglas who
have been convicted on the same
cliire wlil be sentenced as soon
as their attorney, Frank Doun,
can appear in court. Tomorrow
John Williams and John Sawyer
will be tried on the a;ne charge.
4, t :l
LIEUTENANT
Robert Fay, Convicted of Con
spiracy in New York Fed
eral Court, Escapes From
Atlanta Prison With Friend
(By Review Leased Wire)
ATLANTA, Ga Aug. 29. Rob
ert Fay, said to have been a for
mer German army officer, con
victed conspiracy against the
United States in connection with
munition plots in New York, es
caped from the federal prison
here late tonight together with
Wm. Knoglochs, another prison
er. Fay, who entered the prison ,
June 23 to serve eight years, and
Knoblch, sentenced at New York
May 9 to serve 18 months for us
ing the mails to doiraud, hid been
doing electrical repair work at
the prison. Late today they
walked by a guard at one of the
gates, saying they were going out
side to repair some arc lights.
When their escape was discover
ed shortly before dark, an alarm
was sent out and guards searched
the o.iintryside about the prison
which is in the suburbs of Atlan
ta. Convicted May 8
NEW YORK, Aug. 29. Robert
Fay, self styled German army
lieutenant, Walter Schlotz, his
brother-in-law,, and Paul Daeche
were convicted here May 8 on a
charge of conspiring to sink
steamships carrying munitions cf
war to the Allies by attaching
bombs to them. Fay was sentenc
ed to eight years' imprisonment,
Scholtz to f. ur years and Daeche
to two years.
VON HINDEHBURG IS
NOW LEADER OF HIS
EMPEROR'S ARMIES
"Old Man of the Lakes'
Thought Daft By Younger
Men of German Army, In
Full Command of Military.
(By Review Leased Wire)
COPENHAGEN, Via L'jndon. Aug.
SO (2:32 a. in.) The Ritsaus News
Agency publishes a dispatch giving
the ollicial annonncenient of General
von Falkenhayn's dismissal by the
emperror as chief of the general staff
and the appointment of Field Marshal
von Hindenburg to the post. General
von Ludendorf, von Hindenburg's chief
'jf staff, the dispatch adds, has been
appointed first quartermaster general.
The recent appointment of von
Hindenburg to the suppreme command
of the German armies on the eastern
front when Rumania was considered
on the verge of defection was con
sidered lJ have political bearing.
It was thought that the prestige of
von Hindenburg would favorably im
press Rumania. Chief of Staff von
Hindenburg doubtless will be with
drawn from the east to Berlin.
General von Ludendorf has been
credited with lending valuable aid to
von Hindenburg In his successes over
the Russians.
General von Falkenhayn early in
the war was placed in charge of
Emperor William's headquarters in
place of the late Lieutenant General
Helmut!! von Moltke, then chief of
staff who was ill, and later succeeded
von Moltke at the same time remain
ing minister of war. 1-ater he re
signed as minister of war and was
succeeded by General Adolph von
Hoheiiborn.
mil CI NOT
HOLD GER11
Railroads Make Preparations for
Nation-wide Walkout on Various
Lines; Congress May Act Today
Strike Briefs
(By Review Leased Wire)
ESPEE WARNS PATRONS.
SAN FRANCISCO. Aug. 29.
The following Instructions were
telegraphed by the headquarters
of the t.'juthern Pacific company
tonight to all division superin
tendents: "Please instruct all passenr
and ticket agents by wire at
once to notify passengers utile. -s
they can reach their ik'flin.ilions
by Sunday niyht. September 3,
they may be subject to perplex
ing delays.
(Signed) "CHARLES S. FEE.
"Passenger Traffic Manager."
Similar Instructions regarding
freight were expected to follow.
EMBARGO ON FREIGHT.
TOPEKA. Kas.. Aug. 29. The
Atchison, I'jpeka and Santa Fe
Railroad today placed an emhkrRO
on all shipments of perishable
goods and live stock effective at
once, according to a state. n. nt
issued from the office t J. R.
Koontz, general freight at;ent.
The order also states that com
pany will not take responsibility
on other shipments..
The threatened nation-wide
strike was said to be responsible
tjr the order.
NEW HAVEN FOLLOWS SUIT.
NEW YORK. Aug. 2l. The
New York. New Haven and Hart
ford Railroad company announced
tonight that because of the im
pending railroad strike it will re
fuse hereafter all shipments of
freight which cannot be delivered
before 7 a. m. on September 4.
SIMILAR ACTION FOR ALL.
WASHINGTON. Aug. 29. Rail
road managers here said that all
Hues probably w'juld take action
similar to that ordered by the
Santa Fe to protect themselves in
case of a strike, but that no con
certed action had been agreed
upon and each road would adopt
its own precautions.
STOP PICKING FRUIT.
SACRAMENTO. Aug. 29. Pick
ing of California deciduous fruits
for eastern shipment was prac
tically discontinued today by. the
threatened railroad strike. Grow
ers have decided to quit packing
and to forward what is now iu the
packing houses.
JOHNSON LEADS BOOTH
IN CALIFORNIA FOR
SENATENOMINATION
Present Governor Appears To
Be in Lead In State Wide
Primary for Nomination on
Republican Ticket
,By Review Leased Wire)
SAN FRANCISCO. Aug. 29. Willis
H. Booth ahead in the south his
home country and central and north
ern California claimed by adherents
of Governor, Hiram- W. Johnson this
was the situation shown tonight by
first returns on today's primary elec
tion for 1'nited States senator.
Early returns from San FranciBco
showed the governor running well a
head. although perhaps not more so
than was Booth in Los Angeles. The
Johnson headquarters claimed the
San Francisco district four to one.
They also claimed majorities in Sac
ramento, Fresno and other populous
counties while not denying that
Booth had a heavy start In the south.
Adherents of both men. whose spec
tacular fight for the senatorship was
carried to the republican national
campaign committee and troubled the
progress of Governor Chas. E. Hughes
in his recent campaign, claimed vic
tory on the enrlv returns.
Late Count
SAN FRANCISCO. Aug. 292.759
nrecincts of a total of 6.44:t. gav
Booth 75,ef::; Johnson 92,502.
Terse Situation Develops When Brotherhood Heads Wire
Instructions to Home Lodges to Prepare for Strike on
September 4 President Tells Congress That Something,
Must Be Done He Outlines Needs in the Case.
Both Railway Executives and Heads of Employes Organiza
tions Issue Final Statements on the Question Senate
Committee Will Take Up the Consideration of Proposed
Laws, Sought by Wilson, Sometime Today.
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, Aug. 29. President Wilson, laying the railway strike
situation before Congress today with recommendations for legislation, ad
vanced the crisis to a stage where the next developments depend upon two
things. They are: Whether the legislation he proposes can be passed.
If enacted, will It be effective to prevent a strike already called for 7
a. m.. September 4.
The Brotherhoods, announcing their intention to fight certain portions
of the President's program, are at loggerheads over whether its enactment
would prevent the strike.
The railway presidents favorable to President Wilson's plan in the main,
think it would make It difficult for the strike to begin. Meanwhile, although
negotiations between the employes and men were broken off today by the
rejection of the railway presidents' latest proposal for arbitration. The
President is continuing his efforts to bring the two sides together on some
form of agreement. Efforts which might be described as almost superhuman
are being exerted to that end tonight.
When the Brotherhoods' leaders this morning rejected the latest proposal
of the railroads and deflnately set the strike for next Labor Day without fur
ther notice. President Wilson decided to lay the whole situation before Con
gress. Before a joint session of the House and Senate, and with a solemn
recital of the distress the strike would bring to the country, the President
proposed a plan of legislation. This is the proposal in his own language:
"First, immediate provision for the enlargement and administrative re
organization of the Interstate Commerce Commission along the line embraced
In the bill recently passed by the House of Representatives and now awaiting
action by the Senate, In order that the commission may be enabled to deal
with the many great and various duties now devolving upon it with a prompt
ntss and a thoroughness which are, with its present constitution and means
of action, practically impossible.
"Second, the establishment of an eight hour day as the legal basis alike
of work and of wages in the employment of all railway employes who are
actually engaged in the work of operating trains in interstate transportation.
"Third, the authorization of the appointment by the President of a small
body of men to observe the actual results, in experience, of the adoption of
the eight hour day in railway transportation alike for th men and for the
railroads; its effects in the matter of operating costs, in the application of
the existing practices and against the conditions, and in all other practical
aspects, with the provision that the investigators shall bring their results to
Congress at the earliest possible date, but without recommendation as to
exact legislative action, in order that the public may learn from an unpreju
diced source just what developments have ensued.
"Fourth, explicit approval by the congress of the consideration by the
Interstate Commerce Commission of an increase of freight rates to meet
such additional expenses by the railroads as may have been rendered by. the
adoption of the eight hour day and which have not been offset by adminis
trative readjustments and economies, should Xhe facts disclosed justify the
Increase.
"Fifth, an amendment of the existing statute which provides for the
mediation, concilation and arbitration of such controversies as the present
by adding to It a provision that In case the methods of accommodation now
provided for should fall, a full public investigation of the merits of every such
dispute shall be Instituted and completed before a strike or lockout may law
fully be attempted.
"Sixth, the lodgment in the hands of the executive of the power, in case
of military necessity, to take control of such portions and such rolling stock
of the railways of the country as may be required for military use and to
operate them for miiltary purposes, with authority to draft into the military
service of the 1'nited States such train crews and administrative officials as
the circumstances require for their nafe and efficient ue.
I Immediately after the President had
DEMOCRATS OF NEW
MEXICO MEET TODAY
TO NAME STATE MEN
r . . . c . e
Present Assistant Secretary of
, - . d
the Interior Certain to Ke -
Ceive Nomination for the
Senatorship in State.
(By Review Leased Wire)
SANTA FE. Aug. 29. A full state state commerce committee and Kepre-
ticket and candidates for the 1'nited sentative Adamson. the chairman.
States Senate and' House will be President Wilson expressed tonight
chosen by the Democratic state con-; his earnest hope that the brother
vention which meets here tomorrow. hViods would yield to his request that.
Governor W. C. McDonald was select- pending action by Congress, they res
ed emporary chairman and to deliver cind their strike order. He asked the
the "keynote speech" at a meeting of leaders to do so at their conference
the state central committee today. i last night, but they declined, savin
A. A. Jones of Las Vegas, present they had not the power,
assistant secretary of the interior, is I President Wilson takes the position
experted to be unanimously chosen as tha' in view of this the brotlierW.KKls
the senatorial nominee. W. B. Walton have nothing to gain and much to
of Silver Citv. E. C. De Baca and losp !' thp' rarry out their strike
Felix Garcia are mentioned as pos
sible nominees for the lower house.
Numerous candidates for governor
Include:
j J. J. Shular. Raton: Isaac Barth.
j Albueqtierniie: A It. McGaffy. Albu
oueroiie: Arthur Seijgnian. Santa Fe;
Col W. S Hopewell. Alhunuerotie: II.
L. Hall. Rio Arriha rountv. bestdp
Governor McDonald and E. C. De Baca
whose names may be presented.
A large list of candidates is offered
for the other state offices.
. delivered his recommendations. Con-
' gress set about to see how they might
be enacted into law. The Senate in
terstate commerce commission com
mittee which has before it bills pre-
I pared to carry 'jut the plan, did not
get a quorum and will meet tomorrow
i morning. The House leaders an-
j nounced their intention of waiting on
tne Senate's action.
I ... .., ,
Tonight President ilson had a
J conference in Speaker Clark's room
at the Capitol. Besides the President
i and the Speaker, the conferees in
cluded Republican Lender Mann.
Democratic Leader Kitchin. Repre-
sentative Sterling of Illinois, the rank
ing Republican of the House inter-
order. The President intends to use
I all his Influence to hasten action In
Congress but should there be a delay
he intends to appeal t. the patriotism
of the leaders and their duties to the
public not to persist in calling the
strike at this time.
The President expects the public
to make known to the hrothe;hoo
its opposition P a strike regardless
of the merits of the controversy. Mean
while the railroad heads prepared
(Continued oo rage Two.)
