Crossville Chronicle.
THi TINNEMU TIMHI
OH B8 VILLE OMftONIOLB I
CON80LIDATID
1895
CROSSVILLE, TENNESSEE. WEDNESDAY. AUGUST 30. 1916.
NO. 35
VOL. XXX.
I
1
i
m
r
BEST FERTILIZER YOU CAN BUY
At the Same Time it Costs Less Than
the Kind That Comes Out
of the Sack.
Far and away the cheapest and best
fertilizer we Know of is a crop of crim
son clover turned under in spring. The
seed for planting an acre in crimson
clover at present prices will cost from
$2 to $2.50 and the worn of seeding
and harrowing in will cost 50 cents an
acre more. For this investment of $3
we get on each acre, when we turn the.
clover under, nitrogen that came from
the air equivalent in fertilizing value
to 1.000 pounds of cottonseed meal or
400 pounds of nitrate of soda, worth
not less than (12 or $15.
Not only this, but Jwe get also an
abundance of humus that makes our
soils mellower, warmer, more drouth
resistant and at the same time unlocks
and makes more available the stores of
insoluable plant food in the soil.
Now when we invest $3 in an 8-2-2
fertilizer that sells for $20 a ton, what
do we get? We get 300 pounds of a
mixture containing 5 pounds of nitro
gen worth $1, 6 pounds of potash worth,
at prices prevailing before the great
war, 25 cents, and 24 pounds ot phos
phoric acid worth $1.20 or a total of
92.45.
Now we do not say that the clover
turned under is a complete fertilizer,
for it is not ; but it does supply humus
and nitrogen, two of the greatest needs
by far of most Southern soils, leaving
only phosphoric acid, and in a limited
territory some potash, to buy. More
over, once we have tilled our soils with
humus, we can cut our phosphoric acid
bill 60 to 70 per cept by using the
ground phosphate rock.
$3 for $12 to $16 worth of nitrogen
and humus, or $3 for an 8-2-2 mixture:
we leave it to any fair minded man as
to which is the better investment.
We ooubt if many farmers realize
the possibilities in the production of
crimson clover seed for the market.
Yields of from four to seven bushels
per acre are common, and prices now
are from $7 to $8 a bushel. When we
remember that it is easy to harvest a
crop of clover seed and make a good
earn crop on the land the same year,
it would seem that more of our farm
ers would engage in the production of
marketable clover seed. The Progres
sive Farmer.
3 FLASHES FROM HUGHES
I DETROIT TALKS.
WWW W
. AAAaaa4lMJiMMiiMM
AMERICAN RIGHTS-
"No one ould successfully present
to tin American rdlence that an Am
erican citizen's lOhts stopped with
fhe coast line."
1 "Therp Is not a particle of militar-
om in xnv coniDosltion, but there Is
koi.nn!sm fn its Dlace. and if elect
ed. I am going to see that American
fights are protected."
labor.
"The working man is not asking any
thing he should not have. All he
grants is u square deal.
"No such thing as prosperity exists
jtor just one class in America, unless
It exists for all."
' Th. Ronubllcan Darty does not
stand for the prosperity produced by
hA wnr. hut for a prosperity proauceu
5y sound American policies and these
re what we propose to nave.
REPAREDNES8.
Tin not let us tret this country Into
fe low patriotic plane so that we are
Content with disesteem, with the scoff
pt the world."
! "1 am an American cltlaen,' ought
to be the proudest title In the world."
CIVIL SERVICE.
"We had in the coast and geodetic
jrarvey an eminent scientist. Be was
Misplaced to make room for an excel
lent stock breeder."
' 'It Is the most unworthy thing an
ministration can do to take public
business and pay political debts with
At the Chronicle office you can get
pen tablets, examination tablets,
fountain pen ink in five and ten cent
bottles, pocket note books, stenog
rapher s note books, Oane's tine sta
tionery in two-quire ''oxes and other
stationery such as you do not find else
where in this county.
Til"
CHARLES
Republican candidate for president, who will speak
in Nashville, next Monday, September 4.
DETROIT'S IMPRESSIONS OF A MAN.
Governor Hushes' visit to Detroit
of 1918 and if we may forecast the
omens of Monday we would prognosticate an intensely warm, vivid and
humanly Interesting period In the next few months.
Setting aside the auspices of meteorological conditions In this pro
vision of the future although they are approved by numerous profes-
ui sionai augurs ana ay a nun 01 commgnnj w to . r--
jjj pheey on the characteristics of the candidate whose too brief stay with
fl us has been enjoyed by all with whom he came into contact.
( The misguided individuals who have been expecting Charles E.
Hughes would prove to be a cold proposition and therefore easy to
U ... . . . . i l UU I
beat are In for a shock tnat win maKe tnem mm wioy nave own an jr
an uninsulated trolley wire. There is nothing cold about Mr. Hughes,
Detroit has learned. He is about as intensely human a piece of hu
manity as ever captured the hearts of a crowd, and the more people In
the United States he meets between now and November the more
votes will be cast for him. As a campaigner he is a revelation. He
likes his fellow beings, and they like him because they see he likes
them.
And what his personality begins his remarkable powers of Intellect
and utterance finish. He drives nis points home with tremendous force.
What he says sticks. There are thousands of Americans today who
can retell every step in the arguments he made eight years ago on
the Bryan trust policy, yet in 1908 Mr. Hughes was not especially a
prominent figure and there was no particular reason why his address
more than others should have remained clearly in the memory except
the gift of the man to send his own thoughts so deep into the brains
of others. They awe clear in his own mind first, undoubtedly. He knows
precisely what he wants to say because he has reasoned it out before
he speaks It out. Probably that has something to do with the ease
with which he conveys his meaning. But it is a very rare quality
he possesses in his ability to master subjects so thoroughly as to make
the most abstruse simple to himself and his hearers. It Is a quality
eminently desirable in a political candidate; it Is infinitely more to be
desired in the president of a great country like the United States.
Detroit's Impression of Charles E. Hughes Is all favorable. The
thousands of people who have studied him at olose range are convinced
that If he is elected president next November he will be a great presi
dent, one of the greatest this nation has known, worthy to stand fn
history with George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, a custodian of
the republic's fate to whom that fate may confidently be intrusted.
If that conviction Is shared by the people of other states whom he Is
till to meet, the outcome of his swing around the great American
circle cannot fall to be propitious for him. Detroit Free Press.
jl ULUUU T rnvOrEni I T
"No one disputes a temporary prosperity In our land today. But
It la sectional In its factory aspect, abnormal In Its fevered rush, ficti
tious In Its essentials, and perverting In Its tendency. Worse, It Is
the ge'd sluiced from the river of blood, poured out by the horrifying
sacrifice of millions of our fellow men. God ferhld that we ehould
boast a prosperity wrought In such wests of human life. We had
rather rejoice In the prosperity of peace." United 8tates Senator
Warren G. Harding.
M. TO-B. WORK DEFERRED.
Owing to chancery court being in
session this week and that several per
sons would be unable to assist with the
proposed work on the Memphis-to-Bristol
highway between Crossville
anl Crab Orchard, it has been decided
to postpone the work until next week
Friday, September 8.
E. HUGHES
opened the presidential oam
events that are to follow by the
ft
Have your basket of lunch ready and
some good tool such as a spade, shovel,
msttock, hoe or almost anything that
can be used to move dirt, and come
eut. There promises to be a goodly
number from Crossville, Dotron and
Crab Orchard.
For Sale Four head of good work
mules, H. L. Spencer. 8-23-2t.
i253SBS2S
salon ffi
B W
DIXIE SHORT ROUTE
This Writer Thinks It Should Go via Big
lick and Tell Why.
Some reasons why the Dixie Short
Route should go via Biglick down
Browns Gap to the Bledsoe county line.
1st. Because it is the most direct
route from Crossville to the Bledsoe
county line. In fact it is almost a di
rect nortb and south line.
2nd. It is a much better grade than
can be had by going via Linaria down
Devil Step Hollow.
3ra. According to the act, if the
Dixie Short Route does not go via Big
lick there is $8,000 to be put on this
road, which would make two roads run
ning south almost parallel through over
one-half of tne county. These roads
woula not be over rive or six miles
apart at the farthest point and in some
places would be less than one mile. If
the Dixie Short Route should go via
Biglickthe $8,000 could be put on ether
roads and would benefit the greatest
number of tax payers.
4th. Most important of all is the
limestone on Browns Gap being so near
the top of the mountain. There is
enough limestone within 1000 feet of
the top of the mountain to gravel all
the roads theicounty can ever build.
By going via Linaria down Devil Step
the lime is not reached until well down
the mountain.
5th. If the road goes down through
the head ot the valley there will have
to be rights of way bought tnat will
greatly increase the cost of the road.
1 think it' the Highway Commission
will go over each route they will de
cide in favor of the Browns Gap route.
A Reader ot the Chronicle.
While it is not the purpose of the
Chronicle to take sides in an endeavor
to exert influence either tor or against
any special route tor the Dixie Short
Route highway, we do feel that when
the favorable features are presented
the unfavorable ones should be pre
sented at the same time.
"A Reader of the Chronicle" has
presented seme of the favorable lea
tures ot the Biglick route and we will
now present a few ot the unfavorable :
He did not mention the tact that it
would cost several thousand doll rs to
build the necessary bridges via the
Biglick route and that the bridges are
already built via the Linaria or Devil
Step hollow route.
The country is more rugged via Big
lick than the other way. For that rea
son the road would be longer. Via
Biglick would cause the road to reach
the Valley at least two miles below the
head and that would mean that some
people would be forced to go two miles
or more in the opposite direction to
which they wish to go to reach the
Dixie Highway. There are fewer peo
ple living on the Biglick route than are
living on the other route.
One of the worst difficulties that
would have to be faced in building via
the Devil Step hollow or Linaria route
would be the difficulty of getting down
the valley without either crossing the
Sequatchee river several times or the
expense of turning the stream out of
the way of the road.
The fact remains, however tnat, both
routes have some serious obstacles and
some favorable features and the only
way to arrive at a clear understanding
of which is the better will be by mak
ing a survey.
Many people think the cheapest and
best road can be built by going via the
Hales Chapel neighborhood for by that
means no bridges will be required for
all streams will De headed. The in
creased distance is slight and the ease
with wbieh the road could be built is
far ahead ot either of the other routes.
Ed. Chronicle.
COMMITTEE CALLED.
The republican committee of the
fourth congressional district has been
called to meet in Cookeville next Sat
urday to transact such business as may
properly come before it. All commit
teemen are requested to be present.
Plenty of Time Books at the Chron
icle office: two weeks' size and month
ly, only 10c. Stenographers' note
books also
DAILIES CEASE EXCHANGING.
Weekly Papers Must Pay for Dailies ami
Dailies Pay for Weeklies.
Several of the daily papers, notably
the Knoxviilo Journal and Tribune and
the Nashville Banner are complying
literally with the request of the Amer
ican Newspaper Association in that
they will require all weekly papers to
buy their paper, if they are to receive
it after Spetember 1. They propose to
pay the subscription price tor such
weekly papers as they wish to keep on
their exchange hot. This week the
Chronicle sent a check to the Banner
for one year. We expect all dailies to
follow tni course and in view of that
fact and the increased cost of produc
ing the Chronicle, we have cut off
quite a number ot exchanges that are
of no special benefit to us.
Hereafter we will have only one cor
respondent at any one postoffice in the
county, and when they grow neglectful
about sending in the news the paper
will be stopped without notifying the
correspondent. This course is not pur
sued in a spirit of ill feeling or brava
do, but is prompted by stern business.
In this connection we wish to remind
people who rotue to this office for
extra copies of the paper that they
will cost three cents each, whether you
are a subscriber or not. You may
think this is pretty hard on a rfgular
subscriber. But it you should go to a
store and buy three cents worth ot
candy and drop it into the mud before
you ate it, you would not think of go
ing back to the merchant for more
candy without paying for it. It is the
same way with this paper. It cost
more than three cents a copy to make
this pdper and we cannot give it away
and keep going.
For several months newspapers all
over the count-y have been suspending.
In some instances they have increased
the price of subscription to save them
from suspension and in other instanres
they have reduced tne size, especially
the dailies.
In this state many of the weeklies
have increased the subscription price
two did that in Middle Tennessee this
week. Nearly two years ago the
Chronicle found it necessary to increase
the subscription price to prevent sus
pension. Even now, with the increase
in subscription, every copy of the
Chronicle that goes out to subscribers
goes to them at a loss to this company.
It costs this company a little over three
cents a copy while we receive a little
less than three cents a copy, where a
subscriber pays. When they do not
pay, which frequently happens -well !
X-RAY MACHINE
Dr. W. A. Reed Has Installed One for the
Service of the Public
Monday Dr. W. A. Keed received an
X-Kay machine and a man will be here
in a short time to install it and in
struct him in its use. 1 his should and
doubtless will prove a source of great
convenience and benefit tn the people
of this county and section as it will
render trips to Nashville and other
cities unnecessary when X-Ray ser
vice? are necessary.
It is hardly probable that any other
town the size of Cossvill? in the state
is so fortunate as to have an X-Ray
machine. They are an expensive and
intricate machine and are found only
in the cities, hence Crr ssville has rea
son to feel much pride in the fact that
we have a physic an who l as the en
terprise and progressive".rss to put in
so costly an equipment w'th so small
hope of it proving a profitable Invest
ment. RAILROAD STRIKE
The railroads and employees have
been unable to come to terms and
President Wilson has tak n the matter
to members of congress and it is talk
ed there will be a bill pas?eed by con
gress that will permit the railroads to
increase freight rates sufficiently to
cover the incieased expenses incident
to the eight hour day.
A strike order has been issued for
Labor Day, September 4, in the event
the differences are not settled before
that time.
I I
H
II
J
