Congress Works Under Pressure as Both Sides Lay Plans For Great Railroad Strike
HARRISBURG tfjfgjli TELEGRAPH
LXXXV — No. 200
BOTH SIDES HURRY
PLANS FOR STRIKE;
ASK POSTPONEMENT
Every Effort Being Made to Have Brotherhoods Extend or
Rescind Their Walkout Order Until Congress Has Had
Opportunity to Act; Wilson May Make Appeal to Rail
way Workers Over Heads of Leaders
FEELING PERSISTS IN WASHINGTON THAT
WAY WILL BE FOUND TO AVERT GREAT TIEUP
Leaders Assert No Power on Earth Except Satisfactory
Settlement Can Prevent Trouble and That They Can
not Recall the Order; Union Pacific Conductors Re
strained From Quitting ; Railroads of Nation Placing
Embargo on Perishable Foodstuffs
Washington, Aug. 30.—With both sides making last-hour prep
arations for a great railway strike Monday morning, President
Wilson to-day turned all the influence of his administration toward
persuading the brotherhood leaders to postpone or rescind their
strike order until Congress has had opportunity to act.
There were intimations that should the labor leaders continue
adamant President Wilson even might make a public appeal to the
lailway workers themselves to direct their leaders to postpone it.
Despite denials of the labor leaders that President Wilson or
any one else had asked them to postpone the strike there were
abundant evidences that such was the case, and somehow there
was a feeling in Congress, in administration circles and in other
places that a way would be found to avert the walkout. No one
knew what it was, but the feeling prevailed.
"After a conference with Secretary Wilson at the Department
of Labor the brotherhood leaders reiterated that no power on earth
except a satisfactory settlement would avert the strike and that they
had no power to rescind the order.
Nevertheless efforts were continued to bring about a postpone
ment. y
It was not assured that, even if measures proposed by President
Wilson in his address to Congress yesterday can be passed in the
five days remaining, they will be effective in forestalling the walkout.
In general, brotherhood leaders intended to fight "the legislative
program and railway managements expected to support it, but both
sides laid plans for the strike quite as if its coming were beyond
all doubt.
Restrain Conductors
The first legal phase of the situation
developed with the temporary injunc
tion issued by a local court in Ne
braska restraining the conductors
from calling or enforcing a strike on
the Union Pacific. This brought up
for the first time the effect of the
much discussed Clayton anti-injunc
tion act passed by Congress at the
behest of labor. The brotherhood
leaders unreservedly expressed the
opinion that the injunction was in
contravention of the law and could not
stand. There were intimations that
similar injunctions might be sued out
in different parts of the country
where the sentiment of the men is
known to be against the strike.
Will Tic Passenger Traffic
With notices of freight embargoes
and prospective delays to passenger
traffic pouring in from all parts of
the country, Chairman Howard Elliott
of the New Haven, issued a statement
on behalf of the railway executives
pointing out that passenger train serv
ice as well as freight will be tied up.
While every effort was being made to
prevent the strike both sides continued
to make preparations to meet it.
Consider Old I jaw
The Senate Interstate Commerce
(Other Strike Xens on Pages 2, r>, 10.1
THE WEATHER
For Harrisburg and vicinity! Fair
to-nlitht and Thursday) not muck
change In tempemture,
For Knstern Pennsylvania! Gener
ally fair to-night nnd Thumlnyi
not much change In temperature;
light southwest to weat winds.
River
The Susquehanna river and Ita
tributaries will remnln nearly
stationary. A stage of about 3.3
feet Is Indicated for Harrisburic
Thursday morning.
General Conditions
Wo disturbance of Importance ap
pears on the map this morning.
Pressure Is somewhat above nor
mal over nearly all the country
east of the Itoeky Mountains, be
ing highest over the l.oner Ohio
Valley and West Tennessee.
Showers have fallen generally In
the South Atlantic and Golf
States and locally In Xehraska,
Arlaona nnd Utah and along the
southern border of the Ureal
Lakes, the amounts being light to
moderate, except on the Texas
coast, vrhere 2.20 Inches fell at
Corpus Chrlstl. There has been a
general though slight rise In
temperature over the greater part
of the country, except in the Up
per Mississippi Valley, the
greater part of the Lake Region
and over the Pacific slope, in
Sooth Carolina, Georgia ana
Florida, where It Is 2 to 16 de
grees cooler.
Temperature: 8 a. m., S6.
Son i Rises, Si3o a. m.s sets, <JI4I
p. m.
Moont First quarter, September
4, 11i26 p. m.
River Stagei 3.3 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 74.
Lowest temperature, ,%4.
Mean temperature, 64.
Normal temperature, 70.
BY CARRIERS <1 CENTS A WEEK*
SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
Committee also considered a law
passed by Congress in 1862 authoriz
ing the President to take possession of
railroad and telegraph lines when in
his judgment public safety might re
quire it. Senators remarked it was an
interesting statue in the face of the
existing emergency. The statue pass
ed in the early part of the Civil War
was designed to be in force only as
long as necessary to meet war condi
tions.
President Wilson still hoped the
brotherhood leaders now in Wash
ington would find means of rescinding
the strike order which they maintain
has gone beyond their jurisdiction.
There was no unanimity of opinion
among them as to whether the sug
gested measure to forbid a strike
pending investigation by a public
commission, if passed and made ef
fective before next Monday, could ap
ply validly to the present situation.
Railway executives believed, however,
that the legislation advocated would
force a suspension of action, possibly
only by the pressure of public opinion.
Railroads Placing Knilmrgoes
* While government machinery was
humming to-day with strike plahs
there poured from all sections of the
country reports that railroads were
declaring embargoes on perishable
stuff, refusing to accept freight with
guarantees of prompt delivery and
warning against passenger travel ex
tending past 1 a. m. Monday, the hour
set for the strike. These reports gave
a hint of the rigors which might be
expected from a general strike.
As a sequel to the conference in
Speaker Clark's office at the Capitol
last night between the President and
Congressional leaders of both parties,
these leaders planned another meet
ing for early to-day to map out a
course. Arrangements also were made
for a meeting of the Senate Interstate
Commerce Committee, for it was in
tne upper House that strike legislation
was to be threshed out first.
Not Agreed on Methods
Members of Congress were not fully
agreed on methods, but they were rep-
| * ["Continued on
President in Shore Garb Sets
Precedent Before Congress
Washington, AUK. 30. Fashion
note: When President Wilson ad
dressed Congress this afternoon he
wore a blue serge coat which lltted
closely about his lithe form, -white
flannel trousers with cuffs, white silk
socks and white canvas shoes. His
collar was of the turn-down variety
and his four-in-hand was of some
soft, shiny material which looked like
silk.
On all his nine public appearances
before Congress President Wilson was
attired in a ministerial frick coat,
white waistcoat, gray striped trous
ers and black shoes. Usuallv he wore
a gray four-in-hand cravat. His dress
to-day gave him a youthful appear
ance that was not materially modified
by the whitening hair and the thick
reading glassfes he wore. Old-timers
said that it was the first time any
President of the United States had ap
peared at the Capitol for a ceremonial
occasion wearing any other than a
formal black coat.
DOES FEMININE HARRISBURG WANT
A MUNICIPAL BATHING BEACH? OH, NO!
If you don't think that Harrisburg's youthful feminity wants a bath
ing beach, "oh, Just awfully," just slip over to the city bathhouses some
day when the girls are having their plunge—that is if you can manage to
get past the eagle-eyed guard long enough to take a peek. The accom
panying etching conveys an idea of what you'll see. Reading from left
to right the pretty bathers are: Alice Walker, Ruth Gise, Ruth Drake
Helen Drake, Kathryn Bradigan, Margaret Cohn, Mabel Bradigan and
Vera Walden.
TO SAVE HIMSELF
CYCLIST HITS TWO
WOMEN; KILLS ONE
Attempting to avoid being run down
by a Philadelphia, and Reading train
at a grade crossing near East Middle
town station this morning, Uriah
Sclirum, Middletown, drove his ma
chine against Mrs. Sara Hoerner, aged
77, and her daughter, Mrs. Elizabeth
Zorger, aged 59, instantly killing Mrs.
Tfoerner and seriously injuring her
daughter.
P. & R. READY
OFFICIALS SAY
Pennsy May Close Enola Side
and Handle Freight in
Harrisburg Yards
Philadelphia and Reading Railway
officials to-day announced that they
were ready for a strike. Plans were
completed at a conference of superin
tendents and heads of departments at
Reading yesterday. All employes not
affected by the strike order will be
mustered into the transportation serv
ice and assigned to special duty. Simi
lar plans are announced by the Cum
berland Valley Railroad and the
Northern Central Railway.
At Rutherford yards there is very
[Continued on Page 7]
Fay, Bombplotter,
Escapes From Prison
Atlanta, Ga., Aug. 30. —Robert Fay,
former German artny officer, con
victed of conspiracy against the United
States in connection with munitions
plots in New York, escaped from the
Federal prison here late yesterday
with William Knobloch, another pris
oner.
New York, Aug. 29. Robert Fay,
German army lieutenant; Walter
Scholz, his brother-in-law, and Paul
Daeche were convicted here May 8 on
charges of conspiring to sink steam
ships carrying munitions of war to the
allies by attaching bombs to them.
Fay was sentenced to eight years' im
prisonment, Scholz to four years and
Daeche to two years.
Fay came to this country under an
assumed name after the outbreak of
the war. He wrote to President Wil
son after his conviction admitting he
was a deserter from the German
army, but asked that he be deported
to Germany to'"rehabilitate" himself
and that he might give his life to his
country.
DAM MARKS END
OF BIG PROGRAM
Finish Expenditure of Nearly
Million and Half; Hard
scrabble Next Problem
With the completion yesterday of
the (treat dam across the Susquehanna
at Dock street, Harrisburg's vast pro
gram of public improvements involv
ing an expenditure of more than a
million and a quarter dollar*, was
practically concluded.
Hardscrabble is still the unsolved
Improvement problem although the
solution, insofar as the future elimina
tion of the section is concerned, is
{Continued on I'«go 2.]
HARRISBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 30, 1916.
Both women were waiting to board
the approaehing train, which was
slowing down to load passengers. The
motorcycle hurled both against the
trucks of the engine. The older woman
was dead when picked up and her
daueho»r was rushed to the ofllcc or a
MiddlMHn physician.
S< hrrtW"drove into Middletown and
surrendered to Chief or Police Cha-les
Houser, who notified Coroner Jacob
Eckinger, who is investigating.
RUMANIANS POUR
INTO HUNGARY
With Russians Meet Only
Light Resistance; Bombard
Danube Towns
By Associated Press
London, Aug. 30.—Dispatches from
Bucharest by way of Rome say Ru
manians. in conjunction with Rus
sians, have captured the principal
passes of the Carpathians. For twelve
hours tho Rumanians have marched
uninterruptedly on Hungarian terri
tory, meeting only weak resistance.
London, Aug. 30.—Hungarian war
correspondents as quoted in a Central
News dispatch from Amsterdam, re
port that the Rumanians have begun
a bombardment of the Danubo towns
[Continued on Page 5]
"Heart-to-Heart" Dancing
Frowned on by Masters
Special to the Telegraph
New York Aug. 30. The American
Society of Professors of Dancing will
hold its annual convention in the ball
room of the Hotel Majestic from Tues
day to Friday next week.
Advance information indicates that
"hi?art-to-hcart" dancing will he ta
booed by a vote of the convention It
I? b ,« attacked vigorously bv Louis
H. Chalif. formerly of the Russian im
perial ballet, who will deliver the ope"
ing address The "hippopotamus hob
ble and other zoological eccentricities
be 'aid on the Bhe, f- and the
tired businessmen will be invited to
kick his heels in the athletic polka.
P. & H. PRESIDENT ILL
Word was received In Harrisburg
to-day of the serious Illness of Presi
dent A. T. Dice of the Philadelphia
and Reading railroad at his summer
cottage at Chelsea, Atlantic City.
MANY FLOATS IN
KIPONA PARADE
Susquehanna Will Blaze With
Light Monday; State
Won't Interfere
Thousands of folks who will crowd
the river hank and the "city's front
steps" on the evening of Labor Day
will be treated to the spectacle of a
blaze of light that will make light out
of darkness, according to the plans of
the general committee In charge of
darkness, according to the plans of
the general committee in charge of the
Kipona. '
Now that all danger of the carnival
iContinued on Patfe 7]
NO SCHOOL FOR
PUPILS UNDER 16
UNTIL OCTOBER
But Schools May Be Opened as
Usual to Students Over That
Age, Says Dr. Dixon
ORDER IS MODIFIED
Commissioner Raps Critics;
Not Known What Action
Will Be Taken Here
No children under 16 years of age
may attend any school In Pennsylva
nia until after September 29.
Heads of all schools are to be per
mitted to decide whether or not they
will open as usual, providing that none
of them admit children under 16.
This in brief is the effect of a modi
fied infantile paralysis order made by
the State Board of Health and an
nounced by Dr. Samuel G. Dixon,
Health Commissioner, in a statement
to the public this afternoon. Dr. Dixon
also sharply raps cnilcs who have
found fault with the course of the
department in its fight against Infan
tile paralysis. The former order closed
all schools vintil September 18, but the
[Continued on Page 5]
Supposed Burglars Are
Really Plainclothesmen
Detectives and plain clothes men on
the police force who have been work
ing on Allison Hill in an effort to
catch the burglars who made a raid
in that section have been giving the
residents in the neighborhood quite a
scare.
The coppers have been mistaken for
robbers by the people In the vicinity of
Regina and Seventeenth streets and
reports have been received at the police
station that two white men and a col
ored man, seen frequently early in the
morning, are probably the ones who
have been causing the trouble for the
police.
The two white men and the colored
man were plain clothes men working
In the district.
Lost Fortune in Wheat;
Burns Home and Kills Self
Sfecial to the Telegraph
Warren, Pa., Aug. 80'.'—The an-,
trance of Rumania into the Kuropean
conflict indirectly claimed one victim
in this country yesterday afternoon,
when Charles Hill, 53 years old, a
wealthy miller, set fire to hi 3 home in
Lottsvllle and then shot himself
through the forehead with a 32-callber
revolver. Hill, it Is alleged, lost heavily
when wheat sold oft on the Chicago
market.
Neighbors rushed to the home when
they heard the shot. They found Hill's
body lying across the threshold with the
revolver clutched in his hand; life was
extinct. Dragging the body outside,
they entered the home and attempt
ed to save the furniture. The carpets
had been soaked with kerosene before
Hill set the house on fire and they
could do little.
Labor Parade Marshal
to Name Aids and Route
I Complete arrangoments for the big
I Labor Day parade are being made and
lat least 3,000 members of organiza
| tions of the city are expected to be in
I line.
j The joint committee of labor organ
i ization representatives met last night
jat 221 Market street. Frank C. Hoff
| man, chief marshal of the'parade will
announce his aids in a few days, to
gether with division assignments, plan
of formation and the entire route.
A number of bands will be In line,
and all of the men in line will be
uniformed. A number of organiza
tions have not reported, but union men
| of the city predict that the parade will
be one of the biggest of its kind ever
held in Harrisburg.
There will be three divisions and a
number of automobiles and carriages
: are expected to be included in the
I line.
Army and Navy Bills ,
Are Signed by President
Washington, Aug. 30. President
Wilson yesterday completed the Ad
ministration preparedness legislative
program by signing the army and navy
appropriation bills. At the same time
he signed the Philippine bill and the
j new uniform bill of lading law.
I He was surrounded by chairmen and
members of the House and Senate
committees and army and navy offl
i cers. oMtion picture cameras record
ed the event, and when he had signd
all the bills President Wilson spoke of
his feelings in putting the finishing
touches to the legislation.
Two Missing Highspire
Girls in Raleigh Jail
Mary May Conrad, aged 15, and
Ethel Lilly, aged 14, two Highspire
girls who disappeared from their
homes several weeks ago, are in jaij
at Raleigh. N. C., according to a let -
j ter received by the Harrisburg Police
Department, from J. R. Jordan, Jail
| keeper at that city. According to
1 Keeper Jordan the girls said that they
I had "hoboed' their way to Raleigh
from Norfolk with another woman who
1 gave her name as Mrs. Alma Smith.
: She is also being held at Raleigh.
EXEMPT PAYMENTS
New York, Aug. 30. Payments ag
gregating more than (600.000 from
the estute of the late Mrs. John D.
Rockefeller to the Rockefeller Foun
dation and the Bureau of Social Hy
giene. were exempted from the State
transfer tax yesterday by a surrogate's
decision. The State comptroller had
asked that a gift of $425,518 to the
Rockefeller Foundation be taxed, al
leging that the Institution was a cor
poration so organized that prtvate
business might be transacted under
its charter and that "it could be used
by the Rockefeller family as s. sub
terfuge tc evade the transfet tax
laws."
Y.M.C.A.HASNEW
GYM DIRECTOR
C. W. Miller, of Sharon, Will
Assume Duties of Physical
Director Next Week
C. W. MILLER
At a special session of the executive
committee of the Young Men's Chris
tian Association held this morning the
committee appointed for the purpose
of selecting a new physical director
for the association recommended C.
V/. Miller, of Sharon, Pa., for the
position. The recommendation was
favorably acted upon and Mr. Miller
will take up his duties shortly after
the first of the month.
Frank and Edward Roth, the former
a teacher in the Central high school
and the latter a prominent high school
anil Academy athlete, had been in
charge of the physical department of
[Continued on I'agc 4]
PENXYPACKER CoSIFORTABI.E
By Associated Press
Philadelphia. Aug. SO.—Although his
condition still is critical, former Gov
ernor Samuel \V. Pennypacker was re
ported to be resting comfortably to-day
at his home near Schwenkville. For
the first time since he suffered a sink
ing spell early Sunday morning, due to
uraemic poisoning. Ex-Governor
Pennypacker is able to take light nour
ishment.
I——
Rl. MOR O' . I>t;ATlt APPARENTLY UN OUNDED 3f
Hurrisburg. Newspaper offices were bombarded this W
afternoon, by telephone inquiries concerning a report that A
George W. Mcllhenn?, formerly treasurer of the school t
board, had died suddenly. While Mr. Mcllhenny could not A
be located, relatives and friends had heard nothing to con- X
firm the rumor-and it is apparently unfounded. 1
WILL WATCH FOR FOOD INCREASES ?
New York, Aug. 30.—1n event of a strike the police de- J
partment. it was announced, will set a close watch upon the *
retail grocers to prevent any unnecessary advance in prices f
j of food. Any dealer attempting to jump his prices will be *
•' conspiracy to injure the pul : he; Ith. f
* | >mpanies of «
T ° a t
I border duty provisional infantry unit Ito the Jk
'^ c #
j' an 1 western departments. More than 10,0P0 addi- L
* * '■ N • onal Guardsmen, ordered to the border recently, f
I v. ill take the places of the artillery troops. ?
J RAILROAD PRESIDENTS TO MEET J
i Chicago, Aug. 30.—A meeting of railroid presidents, J >
several of whom returner 1 from Washington this afternoon, !
■, will be held here to-morrow to lay plans based on the ,
* assumption that a strike will be called September 4.
1 WILL PASS 8-HOUR DAY
< 9 Washington, Aug. 30. Chairman Adamson, of the ' '
I House Interstate Commerce Committee, to-day told Sena
< i tor Newlands, chairman of the Senate Committee, that ® »
I legislation for the eight-hour day and for a commission ! '
| l would be enacted in all probability by both houses but that * |
. nothing was feaflil td those two propositions. Mr. 1
< I Adamson said h£ did not believe compulsory arbitration | |
and consideration of increase .in freight rates would pass i
! either house. .
Pittsburgh, Aug. 30.—Samuel Moody, passenger man- ' \
age of the Pennsylvania lines, to-day instructed all pas
senger and ticket agents to notify passengers that unless * I
they can rea !i their destinations by Sunday right, Sep
tember 3, thev mav he nnahV to comply inumw. * »
; ' MARRIAGI LICENSES
j I Anthony Jonrph <>llardr and Clali Rurkty. city.
Wtlann Clayton Stvarlz and Itutb Anna Atttck, Lower Paxton.
g
12 PAGES CITY EDITION
EXPLOSION ADDS
TO LIST OF DEAD
AND INJURED ON
WRECKED CRUISER
Steam Main on U. S. S. Mem
phis Cast on Domingan
Rocks Bursts Killing One,
Seriously Wounding Seven
and Slightly Hurting Sixty-
Seven
TWENTY ARE DROWNED;
VESSEL IS TOTAL LOSS
No Word From Naw Tug
Which Runs Ahead of
Storm; Gunboat Castine
Torn From Moorings, and
Steering Gear Disabled, Is
Also Unheard From
By Associated Prist
Washington, Aug. 30. One en
listed man was killed, two officers and
Ave men seriously injured and sixty
seven other men slightly hurt aboard
the armored cruiser Memphis, in ad
dition to those lost by drowning when
the ship was wrecked in a storm yes
terday at Son Domingo City. Rear
Admiral Pond's dispatch to-day said
a steam main burst causing the ad
ditional casualties.
Admiral Pond said all hands had
been removed from the ship which he
previously reported would be a total
loss. To-day's message did not sum
marize the total casualties, merely
adding "several men missing, believ
ed drowned," to the itemized casual
ties of the engineroom accident which
occurred while the cruiser was endea
voring to make her way to sea in the
face of a sudden storm. A report last
night said twenty men returning to
ties of the engineroom accident which
th e ship In a motorboat had been
lost.
AU Hands Taken Off
"All hands off the Memphis Cap
tain Beach was the last to leave
the ship. When the storm struck
steam was up and the main engines
working, but the main steam Una
[Continued on Page 5]
