i
I
i
Y
' MR. MERCHANT.
An ad In The Eagle wlU bring buyer
and teller together.
TKl Y.'ZATKXJt
Bryan eul Xlr.zL'.j: TonI.it- arl
Thursday, ptr'.'.y clpudy.
AND PILOT
VOL XXX. NO. 201.
BRYAN, TEXAS, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 1916.
PRICE $4.00 PER ANNUM.
Ma
m
ama
Will
avuTjmnAjLririni-ni-rri'i mm
1
Hi
Xtrv-.vir-r. - 1
Crisco
Is pore and wholesome
and keeps well in warm
weather. V
FRESH STOCK
Hardy Newton
' Send wkm&Mm
.
nniuc f v u ATI a n
0
mum
Ly.i.M..i " ""' "
BOTH SIDES PREPARE
FOR DEATH STRUGGLE
inn afiiiw wwbp w . -
OF SERBIAN TERRITORY
Rumania Has Placed the Evacuation of Serbia
Up to Bulgaria and if She Refuses, War Will
Be Declared The Albanians Are Ready to
Join the Allies Against the Teutonic Forces
Severe Fighting Is in Progress on the Mace
donian Front The Serbians Repulsed the
Bulgarians at one Point, While the Bulgars
Gained Ground at Others The City of Bu
charest Was Bombarded by Zeppelins Ger
mans Won Small Advantages on the French
Front Russians Took a Mountain at the Bor
der of Hungary.
Both Sides Are Making Last Hour Preparations
t for the Battle Royal to .follow lawng uneci
, , of Strike Order Some Employes Do Not
' Wish to Quit Places of Strikers
to Be Filled.
EVERY WOn AH WANTO
the best things for the table if the price be not
prohibitive. She can have them by trading
at this grocery. We have solved the problc . i
Of how to combine high quality with low pri-.
ces. Give us a trial next month and we will
show you.
Reid Bros.
' Washington. Aug. 30.-Wlth both;r.clc n. The , order was Issued
..... .... i..... i Ion the petition of Edwin A. Hamilton.
, for the great railway atrike Monday. ductor on the I nlon Pacific and
Present Wilson ha. turned all tbe n.br of the Order of Railway
. . ... .nini.iinn n. Conductors, who declares he ana
ward. persuading the. brotherhood other, are anxlou. to continue
strike order until Congress has an
opportunity to art.
4
tlons that ahould
There are lntima
the labor leaders
'jw.(Un. clamant PrMlrtant Wilson
.mi m.k. . nubile anneal to the throughout the country today placed , report that the Ruman.ane.. nav. mVVm w ""-"-
might make a public appeal to me, ,.fc.M- v.t.t.. an L ... ' -. Tr.n.vi.nl some time when bis body was found
,. . .l...Ia- a - J.--j mil trill l'al Ki Ull irr-i miianiTr s i v f OIXCQ intJir wy ' l
railway worker. themselves to direct ' Imoortant ! County ofnclals were called upon u
Embargo on Freight
Chicago. Aug. 30. Railroads
throughout the country today placed
London, Aug. 30. Rumania has de
cided to present an ultimatum to Bul
garia demanding the evacuation of
Serbian territory, says the Exchange
telearaoh's dispatch from Athens.
An Albanian contingent I. ready to
Join the five allied countries In Mace
donia. The Albanians are command
ed by Essad Pasha, chief of the Al
banian government who reached 8a
lonica yesterday.
The entente allies bombarded the
Bulgarian positions on the Struma
River and Lake Dolran. Violent ar-
tilery fighting continued In the re
gion of Ovrovo and Vetrenlk.
Severe fighting Is In progress on
the Macedonian front
The French official atatement today
says the French gained west of the
Vardaar river.
The Bulgarian attacks west of lake
Castrovo were repulaed by the Ser
The Paris Petit Parlalen publishes
NO IS KILLED
W FREIGHT T
110 GRID JURY
ICTili
TO I
McLennan County Grand ' Jury to
Start Investigation of Killing of
Bank Commissioner Patterson.
550.000.000 T.EXIC
III
LT DESTROYED
(Br Associated Pres
Waco. Te.. A uk. 30. To Invest!-
I eate the killing of Bank "Commls-
Reissuing ' of Mexican Currency
Makes Government Printing
Office Buay Place.
' (By AMOcUled Prens.)
Mexico City. Aug. 30. (Corre
spondence of The Associated Press.)
Rl
Unidentified Negro I. Found One Mile
Below Wellborn In Mangled Con
dition Yesterday Afternoon.
sloner Patterson the McLennan coun- The destruction of the so-called
ty grand Jury will be convened this ( Vera Cm. Issue of Mexican currency
afternoon. McLennan county will so- and the Issuance of the new paper
cure the Jurisdiction of the case If money known aa "infalslflcables
an Indictment Is returned here ahead hare made the government printing
of Freestone county where the ahoot-; of flee one of the busiest spot, in
Ins: occurred. Patterson died last Mexico. The Vera Crui bills, over
The body of an unidentified negro
1 was found yesterday afternoon on the
Houston and Texas Central track
ahoul a mile below Wellborn. Ho
was hit by a south bound freight
train aome time during the afternoon
and both of his legs were cut off
close to his body and his head badly
mangled. There wa. nothing In hi.
clothe, to .how who be was and hi.
Identity I. not yet known according
to officer.. Just what time the ac
cident occurred la also unknown and
ha anneared to have been dead for
night at seven five.
CO million dollar worth of which
ARTILLERY nil
have been destroyed, . are cut Into
'strlpa In a hydraulic, press, transform-'
'ed into pulp and made Into cardboard
4nd pasteboard," of which there i.
'great scarcity. This product find, a
ready aale and It la possible that the
government may also destroy old doc
uments to produce material for a
'government box factory In the near
Twenty-Eight Companlea Coa.t Ar- future,
tlllerv Ordered Back to Poets The department i. now working at
Replaced by National Guardamen. high preasure to turn out the new "In
ES ORDERED
BACK
(By Associated Prss.
r worsen loiinnun m uiicvi.
leader, to postpone it. The'"" k "
their
Senate Interstate commerce commit
tee adopted resolutions providing for
bearing, on the proposed legislation
Impending the crista, beginning at 9
o'clock Thursday. Railroad officials,
brotherhood officer, and repreaenta-
tlves of shipper, are Invited to ap
pear. Each aide will be given three
hour, to discus, their views).
destination by September 4th.
Strikers to Lose Jobs.
Chicago. Aug. 30. President Ripley
of the Santa Fe, in a statement, no
tified all employes that the positions
of those falling to report for work;
next Monday would be declared va
cant and the employment of new men
would be permanent
STATUE OF DA VINCI.
Work of Bronte Mads by the Great
Master Himself.
Budapest Hungsry. Aug. SO. The
Museum of Fine Arts hsa acquired
what la declared to be a treasure In
and have occupied two imporxann-ouiuj umv - troops, now on me corner qoiur um xne tremendous quanti
cities beyond the mounUlna. I take charge of the body and unless j were todajr or(jered back to their., nd postcards printed
, fasslflcsble" $2 bills, sorely needed
'because of the scarcity of small
Washington, Aug. 30. Twenty-eight hsnge. Not only the modern presses
companies of the National coast ar-'but even the old hand presses are
tlllery. approximately alx thousand being utilized to expedite the work.
troops, now on the border doing duty, Th0 tremendous quantity of stamps
tinder the
has been aeixed by the Bulgarians
after a battle with the Greek garriaon,
according to the Athen. correond
ent of Matin.
The French launched another at
tack on the Verdun front ea.t of
Fleury and made further progress, the
Parla war office announced today.
The German troop. In the region of
Un almost unknown bronie statue of tha Somma river repuieea eironB
Leonardo da Vlncl. executed by him- British attaeka along in. im ir
self. Tha Hungarian aculptor. Steph- Ovfllerea to PWres ano oeiws.n v
'en Fereneiy. bought the bronxe In lemont and Maurepaa leaf night, aays
Ilea oeyono ini inw.i... . - . - r ...... v mUUw -
n . r..w in nartheaatarn Greece' some relatives or friend, can be tne Eastern and Western do- Huerta reeime are betnr- revalidated
. . . I I La .111 w K.irlA Kv th. fWltintV I . v , 1 . '.I,.,,...,! .... . .....
iuuiiu u w.u panmenia. .-nure mu w oy tne impress or a eoectai die cnanr-
National Gnardsmen who were or- d-nomlnatlon.
dered to the border recently will re- yj,, .tamping ot of copper coin. '
ha. began and It Is announced this la
to be followed shortly by the coinage
of both gold and silver. ' ,
place the artillery troops
Strike la Enjoined.
Omaha, Neb Aug. SO. Judge Willis
Sears In the district court of Douglas
county leaned an order restraining the
general and local officials of the Or
der of Railway Conductors from rail
ing or enforcing a strike on the I'nlon
,n.i. in . iaih raninr with, tha German official atatement Tne
out knowing that Da Vlncl wa. IteWleh detachmenta were defeated In
kreator. It wa. not until after Feren- hand to hand Tignimg p.n
ciy". death that the authorship was 'of Ovlllerea and Plilrea.
eslahllshed. The Ruaalana hava captured ran--
-mountain In
Gill 3RD DEGREE
nnrn rnn win iinii 111111111 iiiiiimit'i in1 i
d kS HIK h III MINI l-HII-KM rniTlliirnn
UULU I til ulUiUUUII LULIlnL I IIIUUIILIIU I ll nVIIIAII
Miir onnn rcninr HUbb hllllt lllbll
lllflfL DUUU LOUHfL
Fort Worth Man Accused, of Theft of
Jewels Suea Accuser for Large
Sum of Money. ,
(By Associated frees.)
Fort Worth, Texaa, Aug. SO. R. F.
Dixon of Fort Worth la named defend
ant rn a 1 10.000 damage ault brought
br Robert Townaend. also of Fort
H Man. on h 'vvorth? because? It I. alleged. Dixon
tha Carpathlane on the, m,hnj,. ,n -
Robert Fay and William Kaobloch,
Serving Terms for Blowing Up of
Munition Ships, Escape.
line
UI..UL
LEVEL OF m
Prices Now Prevail I nfl In Hotiaton
I Hlgheat Since 1t10 In Line x
I With Other Market.
Our ouallly and aervlce enable oa Hungarian border,
to offer yon tha very best In the gro
cery line. Give us a trial during Sep
tember and w will do our utmost to
please yon. Jesse Ilensarllng.
Petrograd aaya.
Bucharest Bombarded.
Bucharest Aug. 30,-Thla city was
bombarded Monday night by Zeppe
llnea and aeroplanes .
(Br Associated Press.)
Atlanta. Ga.. Aug. 30. No trace
haa been found today of either Rob-, HoRt went np , Houaton Tuesday
- r.. . n-lllUm Knnhlnrh. who .v. ti.w i utiA ...
cauaed "third degree- methoda to be . ,fc... ... h.r(1 T-,terdav .v. vi.i .i.-
used upon hlra when arrested by the ... riion Tnf. wer, .,,,.,.. tnr
POll'- 'unln. Urmi for DlottlnC tO blOW UP .1. J.. .. IS knailwl.
Townsend Mid he wa. arreste I MM muntIon ihpt.
July charged with .te.llng $U00 . nnH ,t olner mikrkeU.
worth of Jewel, belonging to Wxon PRAYER MEETING. The price of hog. ha. been around
AllQ BM WHO, w lliv u w civ iuhhu,
sssaaasai ai sj i , aa r-B-M-MAnjAA
Housewife! How Do You Clean House?
Its so'taty and satisfactorily dons with a VACUM CLEANER Ws havs both the
ELECTRIC AND ROLLER operated Vacum Cleaner. If you wish ons w will deliver it
to your horns on trial. If you like it and wish to buy you can pay us $1.00 a week until paid
Prices are $18.50 for the Electric and $8.50 for the Bitsell Vacum Sweeper, $3.00 for
Bistelt Carpet Sweeper. Phone us No. 48 to send you out one.
fpr
the
Gzin
cording to tho petition, where Dixon
and bia wife bad misplaced them.
Townsend declared he waa held by
the police for two daya, and during
the custody of tho officers ba waa
subjected to "third degree" methods.
I which alleaed mistreatment la the
basts for hie damage suit
Retort Courteous.
Percy Why don't you aw put on
a clean collah, deah boy? I put on a
fwesh one evahwy morning, doncher
know.
Algernon Yaas. but evahwy fel
low'a aw mothsh rawn't ba a washwoman.
The rea-ular weekly prayer meeting the 10 cent mark for aome time In
will be held thla evening at 8:15. The Texaa markets. Fort Worth reported
laubject for discussion will be "Win- tops at $10.60 per hundredweight
nlng the Last to Christ." Everyone Tuesday, which waa also a few points
Is cordially Invited. ' 'below the high record reached la
M. B. WEAVER, Pastor. 1110.
i sai t I Light receipts and heavy demand
Instead of running away from your for pork in the Northern marketa are
work try to find a more efficient given aa reasons tor toe nign prices.
way of doing It That Is the secret of Cattle prices are on tha decline.
success. Houaton Post
WMWSWWSWSS
Efficiency In the Boudoir.
"My dear. It takea you too long to
dress." . . . . .
"There la much to attend to my
gown, mf hair, my complexion."
"Things are not orgsnUed. It
aome of your malda form an aem
Mix rimiaHmf.nl Others eaa nalnt
I you up as that work Is going on."
Kansas City Journal.
. j .i i i -1 i ui -ii-ii-irrrrn-i
WE DOM WANT YOUR BANK ACCOUNT
But We Do Want Ycur Attention !
We want to remind you that we sell every
thing for the home. .We would like to show
you our stock of Furniture and Convince
you that HERE is the logical point at which
to make your purchases.
W. T. JAr.lES, Furnlturo
