'3.
HOW RAIL STRIKE
WOULD AFFECT OS
WHAT IT WOULD MEAN TO NEW
ULM IF THE STRIKE WERE
ORDERED.
BIG INDUSTRIES WOULD BE COM
PELLED TO SHUT DOWN AT
ONCE.
With the railroad strike situation
reaching a more acute stage from day
to day, it behooves the citizens of New
Ulm to consider what it will do to us if
it comes. If there were to be a strike
and it should last for a whole month,
what effect would it have upon the busi
ness interests of the city and what
would the public at large be affected?
These and similar questions came to he
editor of the Review within the past
week and to satisfy his own curiosity on
the subject he called up different people
who are at the head of New Ulm's big
enterprises to find out how these men
view the situation.
When Chas. Vogtel, manager of the
Eagle Roller Mill Co. was questioned
as to what effect a strike of a month's
duration would have on the mill, he
very promptly stated that the mill would
shut down at once. This would throw
nearly 200 people out of employment,
because the mill employs about that
number of men including the traveling
salesmen. As practically all of the men
are on a salary basis, the Company
would continue the wages of all the men
and that with the loss of profits would
damage the mill plant to the extent of
about $50,000 to $60,000. The mill has
enough wheat to run 3 months and
enough coal to keep going, but without
shipping facilities to the outside it
would be useless to keep running.
August Dahl, manager of the New Ulm
Roller Mill Co. has a similar story to tell.
"We might run a couple of days and
store the output, but there would be no
sense in trying to run longer than that.
The chances are that we would shut
down at once." The New Ulm Roller
Mill Co. also has enuf wheat and coal
on hand to keep running some time,
but under the circumstances it would
be cf no use. The damage that the
Ne-fc Him Roller Mill Co. would sustain
is estimated by the manager to be be
tween $5000 and $6,000 if the strike
should last a month. There is no danger
of a flour famine here, altho the feed on
hand would hardly be sufficient to last
the month out.
August Stork of Stork Bros, said
"With no chance to ship out and withcno
chance to ship you can readily see
how long we would be able to continue
business on the scale we are doing it at
the present time. Unless there were
some chance to ship foodstuffs by ex
press or thru trains we could do nothing
else but buy from farmers locally and
store in our refrigerator what cannot
be consumed locally."
When Charles Stuebe, Jr. of Stuebe
Bros, was called up, he was under the
impression for a minute that the strike
was on and that we had inside infor
mation to that effect and he breathed a
sigh of relief when told that we were
simply looking for information as to
what our townsmen thought was going
to happen if the strike should become
a reality. "We would simply quit
buying" said he "except eggs locally
which could be placed cold storage.
As far as poultry and livestock is con
cerned, the farmers would have to keep
it, except such as is needed for local con
sumption."
Harry Bingham of Bingham Bros.
says that in case of a strike their entire
elevators would shut down at once, be
cause there would be no sense in buying
grain when there is no chance to market
it. The coal on hand would not be
sufficient to carry the town thru, but if
the strike did not last longer than a
month and people would not get excited
there would be absolutely no trouble
keeping everybody supplied with coal
even if the quantity of coal shipped by
water and stored on the Dukth docks
is not so great as it was last year at this
time.
If a strike should be declared now, the
Aufderheide Tile & Cement Works and
Brick "Xard would be able to continue
the brick plant indefinitely a most, altho
it would be impossible to make shipment^.
Their stuff would keep. With the cement
tile works proposition, the case is al
together different. At the outside, their
supply of cement would last only two
weeks and possibly before that they
would be forced to shut down. The
damage suffered by them would be
(Continued on last page.)
'•40,'iJJ^ i-^^mi$
Hi^H
SILVER WEDDING CELEBRATED.
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Stelljes celebrated
their silver wedding anniversary at the
Lutheran school house last Friday
evening in the presence of a large circle
of their friends and relatives. They
were married in New Ulm just 25 years
ago by Rev. Albrecht and have spent all
their married life here. Mr. Stelljes
was born in Germany in 1868 and his
wife was Miss Margareta Gareis, daugh
ter of Mrs. M. Gareis of this city. Mm.
Stelljes was born in Pennsylvania.
The Celebrants are the parents of eight
children, Lunita, Erich, Waldemar, Ed
win, Otis, Carl, Elvera and Harold, all
of them still at home with their parents.
ReV» Albrecht was the principal
speaker at the anniversary exercises
and there was a program of recitations
ahd music suitable to the happy occasion.
When the guests departed after a
delightful evening, one and all expressed
their hearty good wishes that they might
all help to celebrate the golden wedding
of this highly respected couple.
The guests from out of town who were
present were Mr. and Mrs. John Stelljes
of Minneapolis and Mrs. Peter Gareis
and daughter Esther.
FOUR YEAR OLD IS
CRIPPLED FOR LIFE
LITTLE CHILDREN MEET WITH
DREADFUL ACCIDENT ON
RAILROAD.
ONE LOSES LEG AND ANOTHER
HAS SCALP WOUNDS. STRUCK
BY CAR.
Another most regrettable accident
occurred last week which resulted in
making a cripple of a very young lad,
the son of Jos. Polta an employe of the
city light plant. The victim of the acci
dent, little, Johnny Polta, was run over
by a freight car and his~fight leg was so
badly crushed that it was necessary to
amputate the member above the knee and
the lad will have to go on crutches or
wear an artificial limb all his life. Two
brothers narrowly escaped injury at the
same time.
The Polta family lives on the east side
of the railroad tracks and the three little
boys ranging in age from four to seven
years had been sent uptown by their
mother. They had stopped at the light
station for a little while to see their
father and an employe of the M. & St
Rwy. Co. who was guarding the crossing
while the switch engine was working
cars near the depot had noticed the
little lads sitting on the steps at the light
station. His duties took his attention
from the little fellows as the string of
cars was making a flying switch and the
next thing he knew he saw the children
crawling out from under the moving cars
It is assumed that the boys wished to
cross the track and started around the
end of the car which was standing on
the crossing. Just as they were in the
middle of the track the switch engine
pushed up several cars to make a coupling
with the standing car and the youngsters
were in the way as the car was shot for
ward. All were knocked down and the
two older boys were fortunate enough
to get out of the way of the grinding
wheels but the littlest one who was
caught under the car had his right leg
crushed to a pulp. One of the other
boys received a scalp wound but it was
not serious.
The injured child was immediately
taken to the Loretto Hospital where it
was necessary to amputate immediately,
He is recovering nicely from the shock
and will no doubt survive.
The accident recalls to mind the one
sustained by the Amann boy a few years
ago. The action brought against the
M. & St. L. for damages in that case was
only this year finally settled when the
parents of the lad got a verdict against
the Company, after the case was taken
to the higher court.
ANOTHER BENEFIT PICNIC.
There will be a picnic given at Her
mann's Heights Sunday, September
10th for the benefit of the soldiers at
Llano Grande. The funds will be sent
to the commanding officers at the border
and there divided as they feel the situa
tion demands. It is supposed that a
part of the funds will be returned to
assist soldiers' families which are in need.
The committee having the matter in
charge met Monday evening and de
cided upon the date but little else has
yet been done.
BUSINESS HOUSES
TO CLOSE FRIDAY
EVERYBODY EXPECTED TO AT-
TEND BROWN COUNTY FAIR
THAT DAY.
MANY FAST HORSES ENTERED
ON RACE PROGRAM. MOTOR
CYCLE RACES.
Foolish question No. 1358960237:
"Going to the Brown Co. Fair?" Of
course everybody's going. There could
be only one answer to that question.
No loyal New Ulmer would dare to say
that he was not going to this greatest of
our County doings. It is the /luty as
well as the pleasure of every citizen to
patronize the institution and help it to
grow year by year bigger and better.
It is getting to be high time that people
appreciate the efforts of the Agricultural
Society and attend in such numbers
that the management may find it possible
to put up the buildings which are so
badly needed for the proper display of
the various products of the county. As
usual, the administration building will
be overflowing with exhibits and the
crowd will find it difficult to get a chance
to see half what there is to be seen but if
there is ever to be a change, the crowds
must come in ever increasing numbers to
provide the necessary funds for the much
desired buildings.
Nothing has been left undone by the
management to secure such attractions
as will appeal to the fair visitors. The
free acts will contain much that is new
and startling. The four Casters are
sensational aerial artists and the grand
stand crowd will have many a chance to
hold its breath as these lithe athletes
skim thru the air and make hair-breadth
catches of one another combined with
daring loop-the-loop stunts and trick
"summersets" as the kids say. Violet
and Charles will supply the comedy
stunts which will be hugely enjoyed by
all who can laugh at comic antic^ on the
trapfese bar and other similar apparatus.
The tented vaudeville will draw a
huge crowd with its five individual acts.
There is the usual singing and dancing
sister act, comedy black face act and the
trained Pomeranians besides two other
comedy and musical acts.
Never before have there been more
entries for the races and it looks as tho
this part of the program may prove
more interesting even than usual. The
paces are divided into the 2:35 and 2:15
classes. There will be a 2:23 trot and
a 2:40 trot. The horses entered for the
races are:
Horses Owners
"Rena Gano", G. E. Hanscom, St. Cloud
"Steadman L", C. Freund, St. Paul
"Lady Hedgewood", C. Freund, St. Paul
"Nugget McGregor", Schaleben & Hage,
New Ulm.
"Teckweli", F. Spoerhase, Winthrop
"Aronet", J. W. Golden, Redwood Falls
"Fay Finch", E. Ward, Redwood Falls
"Ruby L", C. Freund, St. Paul
'•Connosieur", G. H. Macbeth, Mankato
"Cora Bell", John Buoye, Madelia
"Prince R", T. M. Cullen, Minneapolis
"Bob White", B. Morrison, Faribault
"General Luth Baby", D. C. Langford,
Decorah, la.
"Happy Heart", J. H. McGowan, Morton
Only one New Ulm animal is entered
and that is one not well known to New
Ulm people, "Nugget McGregor" owned
by Schaleben & Hage. If this horse
makes a good showing it will restore the
local interest that was always keen when
"King Dillard" or "Edna Parker" was
entered.
Plans are afoot to pull off two motor
cycle races daily one a five mile race for
the Twin Cylinders and the other a three
mile race for the Singles.
As usual the first day, Thursday will
be given to the entering of exhibits and
the big day comes Friday which is New
Ulm day and the business houses will
close for a part of the afternoon so that
all employes may attend. With fair
weather, there is reason to believe that
the crowd will break all records. The
New Ulm Concert Band will furnish the
music.
REMEMBER THE DAY.
If you are not a citizen of this country
and wish to be, September 12th will be
an important date for you to remember
since that is the last day on which you
will be allowed to file your application
for citizenship papers which will be
granted at the December term of court.
Two witness are necessary when the ap
plication is made.
HONOR IS PAID TO
6RAYE DEFENDERS
FORT RIDGELY CELEBRATION
BRINGS TOGETHER FEW
SURVIVORS.
BUT FEW REMAIN TO RECALL
JOYS AND SORROWS OF
EARLY DAYS.
Tuesday, August 22nd, 1916, marked
the 54th Anniversary of the Sioux Indian
Massacre and attack on Fort Ridgely,
and also the 27th Anniversary of the
Fort Ridgely State Park Association,
an organization that has and will do
much toward keeping this spot, and the
event which transpired there, ever before
future generations.
More than 2,500 people autoed to this
historic spot, to attend the ceremonies
and to mingle with acquaintances and
enjoy a picnic dinner last Tuesday. After
several selections by the Citizens Band
of Fairfax, who ere seated near the new
cement platform in the amphitheatre,
the progiam uas commenced.
The president of the association, Hon.
D. S. Hall of Olivia, gave an address of
welcome which was fittingly responded
to by Hon. M. J. Dowling of Olivia.
Mr. Dowling fully realizes the suffering
and hardships the defenders were obliged
to go through in their battles with the
Indians in 1862, especially at Fort Ridge
ly, and he urged that a movement be
made whereby children of school age,
from all over this part of the state could
visit Fort Ridgely and learn of the
sacrifices made in their behalf. Also
that the Minnesota valley be made a
historic tourist spot.
Charles M. Andrist, Secretary to
Governor Buwiquist, was introduced as
the main speaker. He delivered a brief
but very interesting address and paid a
glowing tribute to the defenders present
and to custodian C. H. Hopkins. It
seemed to give him great satisfaction
^tc^have been given the opportunity of
being a distinguished guest on this
occasion and to be on the platform with
the defenders of Fort Ridgely and Civil
War veterans and widows. It is his
belief that where one person from afar
visits this historic spot now, ten would
do so if railroad connections were such
as to permit people to come to Fairfax,
make a visit to Fort Ridgely and return
home the same day.
Other speakers at the afternoon's
program were: Senator Potter of Spring
field Senator Holmberg, of Renville
Representative Swanson of Nicollet
C. H. Hopkins Chas. Vancampen, De
partment Commander of the G. A. R.
?nd Defenders George and Adam Rieke,
of Cairo, who manned the guns at Fort
Ridgely in the defense of the Fori
Garrison against the Sioux Indians.
They gave interesting and actual ac
counts of the stirring events, relating
many incidents that happened before
and after the massacre.
Practically all of the speakers empha
sized the fact that no spot in Minnesota
is of such historical importance as Fort
Ridgely and that Col. C. H. Hopkins,
of Fairfax, who had wonted hard to
perpetuate the spot should have the
support in the future of every patriotic
citizen in this section so that the coming
generations shall fully realize and ap
preciate what the defenders of 1862
did in defeating the murderous Sioux.
The program was interspersed by music
by the Citizens Band and selections by
Fort Ridgely Drum Corps of four pieces.
The day was ideal and though the
crowd was not as large as on former
anniversary celebrations held at Fort
Ridgely, all mingled together and had a
most enjoyable time. No accidents oc
curred to dampen the spirit of the day.
Custodian Hopkins is to be congratulated
upon the fine appearance of the State
Park at Ridgely it is his desire to have
the State make an appropriation for the
building of an artificial lake on the Park
grounds and in this movement every
citizen of the great state of Minnesota
should lend a helping hand.
The officers of the Fort Ridgely State
Park Association were elected to serve
continually.
ANOTHER BENEFIT DANCE
ARMORY.
AT
A good crowd attended the dance at
the Armory given last Saturday evening
for the benefit of the soldiers and their,
families, 138 tickets being sold. There
was plenty of room for comfort, however,
since the hall is a big one and it is hoped
that even more will turn out for the
Fair dance to be given Saturday night
for the sa~ purpose.
DR. DANIELS SAYS FAREWELL
Dr. Daniels whose early life was closely
linked with the early history of Southern
Minnesota was here Monday to pay what
is very likely hislast visit to New Ulm,
the scene of much that marked his life
as a young physician with interest. He
was stationed at St. Peter before the
Outbreak and often was called to attend
the early settlers when herbs and homely
remedies could not cure their ills. At
the time of the massacre he was one of
the party that came to the rescue of the
besieged settlers here and nearly every
one of the older residents is thoroughly
familiar with the man's name and fame,
tho there are few now living who knew
him personally then. He was, up to
the time of his retirement fifteen years
ago, the oldest practicing physician in
the state of Minnesota. He is 88 years
old at this time and-hardly expects ever
to see Minnesota again. He has been
spending the summer with St. Peter
friends and was in New Ulm earlier
in the season but said Monday he sim
ply could not leave without one more
visit here. His son, Harry Daniels,
County Surveyor of Nicollet, accom
panied him to New Ulm. He starts
on his return trip to California to day.
SIBLEY PRISONER IS
HELD FORASSAULT
YOUNG ANDERSON BOUND OVER
TO AWAIT ACTION OF GRAND
JURY.
CASE AGAINST HIM LOOKS BAD.
FATHER CLAIMS ROBBERY
WAS MOTIVE.
Adolph, the 15-year-old son of Gustat
Anderson of Severance, Sibley County,
was bound over to await the action of the
grand jury on the charge of assault in the
first degree.
Young Anderson is the Sibley County
prisoner who has been held at the Brown
County jail for the past two months
awaiting his hearing on the charge of
attempted patricide. Anderson claimed,
it will be remembered that his father had
attempted suicide and that when he
failed in his attempt, laid the blame on
him, Adolph.
On the seventh day of last June Gustaf
Anderson was found in his corn field
with two bullet wounds, the one an inch
to the right of his nose and an inch and a
half below his right eye and the other
an inch below his right temple. Some
time after the son was taken in custody
on suspicion and has since languished in
jail awaiting the recovery of his father
to appear in court. While the elderly
gentleman has made a miraculous re
covery his right side is still paralyzed
and he has difficulty in speaking.
The hearing was held in Winthrop
Monday afternoon in the Winthrop city
hall building and the room was packed
with people who had congregated to
hear the testimony.
Gustaf Anderson the plaintiff was the
first witness called. He gave testimony
to the effect that his son, Adolph, who
was at work with him in the corn field
at the time of the alleged crime deliber
ately walked toward him and when with
in a distance of 6 feet removed a concealed
weapon, a 22-calibre rifle and shot him,
then reloaded his rifle and shot him a
second time. He further stated that his
son then took from his person a pocket
book containing about $30 in cash.
Dr. Thauwald of Gibbon, was called
by the state and told of the character
of the bullet wounds on the person of
Mr. Anderson, he having been called to
the Anderson home to treat the wounded
man. Both bullets which entered Ander
son's body took a downward course and
the doctor stated on the witness stand
that it was possible for bullets of such
small calibre to take the course which
they did. Mr. Anderson gave testimony
that he was standing erect at the time
his son is alleged to have done the
shooting.
Other witness were called in behalf of
the state and gave testimony of remarks
they had heard the boy make after the
affair had taken place.
The hearing was held before Justice
Stresemann. The charge which has been
brought against the defendant is assault
in the first degree. The justice court
has no jurisdiction to grant bonds for a
charge of this character but it remains
discretionary with the district judge to
do so or not.
The boy was remanded to the county
jail at New Ulm.
CAMP CONDITIONS
PROYE WEARISOME
EVEN REVIEW CORRESPONDENT
LOSES A LITTLE OF HIS
OPTIMISM.
MESS HOUSES AND READING
ROOMS BUILT FOR MEN'S
COMFORT.
Llano Grande, Aug. 25, 1916-
Special to the Review:
"Taking everything that's coming,
From reveille to retreat
The dust and thirst and nagging,
And the workin' in the heat
No wonder you are cussin'
At the way you have to stand
Rain and Sunshine, Light and Darkness:
Make it Hell at Llano Grande."
The above is the last of four verses
written by a Battery boy and it just
about sums up the way things have been
going the last two weeks.
In spite of all that is being done to
better conditions at Llano Grande, the
men have had to go thru some hardships.
The hurricane which raged along the
Gulf Coast of Texas, struck Llano
Grande shortly after the men returned
from a long hike on whieh they had been,
soaked to the skin. A number of tents
blew down and many of the men were
unable to get into dry clothes for twenty
four hours. The Co. A boys had a bad
time of it. They had to go on guard
at Camp Headquarters in the driving:
rain and were unable to get into dry
clothes till Saturday night. It is hard
to understand that no body became
seriously sick.
Pay day, which had been delayed for
three weeks came Thursday afternoon
For once, everybody could be seen with
a smile. Friday morning August 25,
however, the smiles changed to frowns.
A hike in full marching order thru heavy
mud was not at all welcome, but orders
must be obeyed in the army. The whole
division at Llano Grande went on the Ja.
Friday "morning hike. There was no
breeze and the sun, already high in the- W
sky, made conditions almost unbearable.
At times, entire squads dropped out of
the ranks. On the whole, however, the
men are in good condition and once?
back in camp they soon become cheerful.
All the New Ulm boys were agreeably
surprised Wednesday evening when they
received a letter from Burgs Battery,
stating that a two dollar bill awaited
them at Major Pfaender's tent. Major
Pfaender, however, did not receive the
money until Friday forenoon. He hand
ed out the crisp bills as soon as the boys
had recovered from their long hike.
A number of things are being done to
better camp conditions. Probably the
most important of these in the building
of mess houses. It can easily be seen
that one of the most important features
in the well being of the boys is the mess.
There has been more or less unpleasant
ness in the cooking department during
spells of rain, with no adequate shelter
for the boys while eating their meals.
About ten days ago work was begun on
three buildings which were to serve as
kitchens and mess houses, one for each
battalion. They were to be erected
gradually for all the companies by men
drawn from the regiment at large. The
work progressed very slowly, however,
as the men had no interest in the build
ings of other companies, and some one
even raised the question of the 8 hour day
on government buildings.
Major Albert Pfaender of the 1st
battalion brought about a change in the
plan, to the effect that each company
should excuse from all other duty its
carpenters and men to work on its own
building. As soon as the men were
working for their own home, so to say,
the way they went at it was a sight to
behold. Now on the fourth day the
kitchens are all under cover and the
entire buildings will be completed in a
day- or two.
Floors are also being put into each tent
and the Government exchange, at which "i
many different articles can be bought Is
helps to make things more home like. --iS
Together with the unpleasant things 3
there are a lot of pleasant things con- t^
nected with camp life. Field and track
meets and base ball games do a lot to
keep the men in good spirits. Sergt- 2 1
Pfeiffer, Elmer Cordes, and Harry Bunrt 1
made the regimental base ball team. 3
Lieut. Alf. Puhlmann was chosen as *M
manager of the team and is also getting
his arm into pitching shape. In a game
between the 2nd Nebraska and the 2nd
Minnsota, "Big Bill" was put in as
a pinch hitter with two down and three
men on bases. Bill clouted out a two
~*J
