TIME
VOL. XX NO. 142.
BARRE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
THE BARRE
DAILY
GREEK
CITY IS
SEIZED
Drama in Northeastern Part
of the Nation Has Fallen
Before Bulgarian Attack,
and 120 Soldiers in the
Garrison Were Killed, Ac
cording to Despatch Re
ceived in Paris
KING FERDINAND IN COMMAND.
THREE FORTS TAKEN
IN THE OPERATIONS
Drama Is Located 70 Miles
from Saloniki and Lies in
the District East of the
Struma River, Which the
Bulgarians Have Been Oc
cupying for Fortnight
Talis, Aug. 30. The city of Drama in
northeastern Greece ha 3 been seized by
Bulgarians after a battle with the Greek
garrison, telegraphs the Athena corres
pondent of Matin. The dispatch says the
Bulgarians captured three forts and took
prisoner the Greek garrison of 120 and
that number of soldiers were killed. This
news is confined, the correspondent adds,
by refugees reaching Athens,
Drama is one of the principal towns
in northeastern Greece, located 70 miles
from .Saloniki in the district east of the
struma river, which the Bulgarians have
been occupying the past fortnight.
Is Said to Be Leading Rumanian Troops
in Hungary.
London, Autr. 30.-To meet the exigen
cies of the situation created by Ruma
nia's entrance into the war on the side of
the entente allies. King Ferdinand has or
dered a general mobilization of his forces
nnd is reported to have proceeded to the
front personally to take command of his
army.
Unofficial advices from the Rumanian
front Hre to the effect that the Ruma
nians are mnking furious efforts to cap
ture passes in the eastern t arpathians
hading into Hungary, and already they
are dcelnred to be fighting shoulder to
shoulder with Russian troops coming
from Uukowina. While Berlin says that
Rumaniii'a attempts to pierce the pass
leading to Hcrniannstadt and the Toerz
burger and Toemoes passes thus far have
been futile, Vienna admits that owing to
a '"far-reaching encircling movement by
strong Rumanian forces," Austrian ad
vanced detachments have been forced to
withdraw.
What Greece's attitude will be as a re
sult of Rumania's joining the entente al
lies is still problematical, but unofficial
advices to London express the belief tlmt
the Hellenic kingdom will shortly throw
in its lot with the entente. A pro-en
tente demonstration in Athens passed a
resolution fusing that if the people were
not heard in their demand that Greece
join the entente powers, "we must take
council as to what is to be done to mini
mize the ruin which awaits us." The
occupation by th" Bulgarians of Kavala
is declared to have intensified the feel
ings of the Greeks, who are said to be
villing to follow foimer Premier Venize
log in any action he may advise. Veni
zolos is strongly pro-entente.
92 CASUALTIES
ON U.S. CRUISER
THAT WAS LOST
Twenty-One Men Are Dead,
Seven Are Seriously In
jured, and 67 Were Hurt
on the Memphis When She
Was Blown Ashore at San
to Domingo City
VIGOROUS WORK
BY UNI V ERS ALISTS
MORE PROGRESS BY
FRENCH NEAR FLEURY
Paris Official Statement Also Reports the
French Gained Ground West of Var
dar River in the Eastern Thea
tre of War.
Pans, Aug. 30. Severe lighting is m
progress on the Macedonian front. The
war office report to-day says the, French
gained ground west of the Vardar river
Bulgarian attacks west of Lake Ostrovo
were repulsed bv Serbians; the entente
allies bombarded Bulgarian positions on
the Struma front near Lake Doiran; and
violent artillery fighting continued in the
region of Ostrovo and Y'etrenik.
On the western front the French
launched another afaek enst of Fleury
and made further progress, the an
nouncement says.
KAISER SWAPS WAR CHIEF
Von Hindenburg Succeeds Von Falken
hayn, Who Was Dismissed.
Berlin, via Copenhagen, to London,
Aug. 30, The emperor has dismissed
Gen. Arich Von Falkenhayn and ap
pointed Field Marshal Von Hindeburg
chief of the general staff.
Copenhagen, via London, Aug. 30.
The Ritzaus News agency publishes a
despatch from Berlin giving the, official
"announcement of Gen. Von Falkenhayn's
dismissal by the emperor as chief of the
general staff and the appointment of
Field Marshal Von Hindenburg to that
post. Gen. Von Ludendorff, Von Hinden
burg's chief of staff, the despatch adds,
has been appointed first quartermaster
general.
Reports Presented to Convention in St.
Johnsbury To-day Tell of Progress
Made By the Denomination.
St. .Tohnsburv, Aug. 30. The giving of
reports by officers and committees occu
pied this morning's session of the I'rii-
vcrsahst convention ot Vermont and the
Province of Quebec, Rev. George F. For-
tier pf St. Albans, the state superintend
ent, reported that during the vear he had
preached 134 times, officiated at five fu
nerals, christened 17 children, baptized
three adults, admitted 20 to church mem
bership, observed communion Hi times,
traveled 15,010 miles, supplied 1,"7 pul
pits, aided in settling pastors in 12 par
ishes, helped to place pastors in 10 sum
mer parishes, helped to revive, three dor
mant parishes and place them under pas
tors, assisted in newly establishing seven
summer parishes and started a new par-
h. J here are now 30 parishes and It
summer parishes in the convention do
main.
The executive board reported that one
church building at Mdes River, P. Q., has
been sold and five parishes have been
aided; the fund increased by $1,800 and
the permanent fund by ,$(iH). The con
vention has come in possession of the
historic Hosea Ballon church at Barnard
and established a nucleus for historic col- '
lection. The entire records of the con
vention have been copied and the original
records will be more carefully preserved.
The fellowship committee reported a. j
total or ,lti clergymen; one has died, one
is a chaplain in the United States army
and one is inactive because of illness.
The annual convention service was ad
dressed by Rev. If. If. Niles of Lyndon
ville, Supt. C. IL Smith of the Vermont
Anti-Saloon league, Rev. C. E. Bingham
of Xorthfield and Rev. George S. DeLano
of Chester. It was announced that the
Brattleboro church has given a commun
ion service to the church at Barnard.
This afternoon Dr. Frederick .1. Rus
sell, superintendent of the school for the
feeble-minded at Brandon, was the speak-
SCORE WERE DROWNED
FROM MOTORBOAT
Bursting of Steam Main on
the Cruiser Caused Most
of the Other Casualties
Gunboat Was Also Caught
in Wind but Managed to
Escape
er.
At the meeting of the Woman's Mis
sionary association yesterday officers
were elected as follows: Mrs. Alice ,T.
Allen, Waterloo, P. Q., president: Miss
Carrie M. Wheelock, Barre, vice-presi
dent; Mrs. Thomas Stratton, Richmond,
Q., secretary; Mrs. Alvin If. Smith,
Williamstown, treasurer; Mrs. Julia
Pierce, Rochester, Mrs. George F. Fortier,
St. Albans, and Miss Martha Jenness,
St. Johnsbury, trustees.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 30. One en
isted man was killed, two officers and
five men were seriously injured and 07
others were hurt aboard the cruiser
Memphis, in addition to those lost by
drowning, when the ship was wrecked
in a storm yesterday at Santo Domingo
City. Rear Admiral Pond's dispatch to
day said that a steam main burst, caus
ing the additional casualties. Last night's
report said that twenty men who were
returning to the ship in a motorboat
were drowned.
Admiral Pond's first report, received
last night, was as follows:
"Memphis driven ashore by heavy sea,
San Domingo City west of lighthouse, at
4:30 p, m. She is lying close under bluff,
has lines ashore and is getting crew off.
Heavy sea came up suddenly ami ship
was unable to get up steam in time to
save herself. Twenty men of liberty
party drowned on way back to ship.
( astine (gunboat) dragged close in but
did not strike and got out to sea. No
other casualties known. Memphis was
total loss.t Expect to save everybody on
board."
The United States cruiser Memphis
was formerly the armored cruiser Ien
nessee, her iiame having been changed
May 2," last. Recently the Memphis has
been doing duty in San Domingo waters
in connection with the revolution in that
country.
She is a vessel of 1 4.500 tons and has
a horsepower of 23,00. Her complement
is POO men. She is the flagship of the
cruiser force of the United States Atlan
tic fleet.
("apt. E. L. Beach commanded the
Memphis.
VERMONT TROOPS ARE
EXPECTED AT 1 P. 31.
AT MONTPELIER JCT
Special Train Carrying Remainder of
Soldiers to the Mexican Boundary Will
Leave Essex Junction Early This
Afternoon It is Thought
The special train carrying the Vermont
troops, six Ameer and 203 enlisted men
members of the National Guard, w
have bee in camp nt Essex Junction
since tlm departure of the first eon tin
gent over two months ago, is expected
to pass through Montpelier Junction
about 4 o clock this afternoon. Arrange
ments have been made by a large number
of Montpelier people to make the trip
to the junction and bid the boys good
bye, and two barrel of apples, a bar
rel of crackers and 300 doughnuts have
been purchased and will be given the
soldiers while the train stops. A suffi
ciently large amount of tobacco to insure
every member of the party being sup
plied for the present at least has also
wen purchased.
following is the liRt of Montpelier
boys who are in the companies which
join their comrades on the border: Ed
ward Parizo, Fred J. Getchell, George
A. Lawson, ilham Johnson, J. D. Ken
worthy, Lester 1). Morecroft, Herbert L
Craiio, Francis C. Miller, Donald C. Fel
lows, Harold Howes and Ray I'arrott of
Montpelier and Jack Mcliugo and -Mi
chael Cersoi of Bane. Tim last fjur
named are members of the machine gun
company winch is captained by Georgi
E. Carpenter and which has a member
Bhip of 53. '
THIRD CASE IN VERMONT.
ONE COLUMN BLANK
Infantile Paralysis Breaks Out in Wood
stock. Burlington, Aug. 30. There were, at
last reports last evening three positive
cases of poliomyelitis, or infantile paral
ysis, in the state of Vermont. This,
however, is as the members of the state
board of health and physicians who are
working at and understand much of the
disease had expected, and there is no rea
son for great alarm as an epidemic is
not expected. Because of the greatest
possible precautions which have been tak
en by the state board of health, the state
has been kept free from contagion by
carriers who have come into Vermont
from other states. However, it was ex
pected that there would be cases scat
tered over the state, this being an almost
inevitable outcome of the passage
through the state of so many from dis
tricts where the disease has been raging
for several weeks past.
The first two cases found were those
of Hopkins and Thurston Hulet, aged 12
and 14 years, sons of H. A. Hulet, who
runs the 1-ake Shaftsbury house at Ar
lington. These two cases were probably
caught by the boys from carriers o'f the
disease from New York state, the house
being a popular stopping place just off
the main road to Manchester. One of
the boys has both legs affected by the
paralysis and the other ha one side of
ll.io u.,,1 n u m nal-nlt,u1 TlkCta
at the state laboratory yesterday con
firmed the diagnosis made by the physi
cians in attendance. The third case to
be reported is that of a 20-month-old
baby girl in Woodstock. This infant was
not very ill. Following a slight intestin
al trouble it was discovered that one
arm was affected with paralysis. This is
also a positive case and was probably
taken of carriers from Massachusetts.
ASKS WORKERS
TO POSTPONE
STRIKE ORDER
President Wilson Directed
His Efforts Today to the
Leaders of the Brother
hoods to Avert the Strike,
Which Threatens to Be
come Effective Sept. 4
MAY PUBLICLY ASK
ORDER BE RESCINDED
Every Flour Mill in Minne
apolis Will Be Shut Down
30 Minutes After Strike
Order Becomes Effective,
Declares One of the Lead
ing Companies '
READY TO LEAVE
ALREADY IN TRANSYLVANIA
Rumanians Said to Have Occupied Two
Important Cities.
Paris. Aug. 30. Petit Parisien pub
lishes the report that the Rumanians,
having forced their way into Transylva
nia, have occupied two important cities
bevond the mountains.
RUMANIAN CAVALRY ADVANCES
Said to Have Crossed Rothenthurm Pass
on Way to Hennacnstadt.
London, Aug. 30. "It is persistently
rumored here, telegraphs the Central
News correspondent at Zurich, Switzer
land, ''that Rumanian cavalry has crossed
Rothenbtirm pass and is now approach
ing Hermannstadt, Hungary.'
Three Hundred Vermont Soldiers on the
Qui Vive.
Burlington, Aug. 30. Six officers and
203 enlisted men of the Vermont Nation
al Guard are ready to leave at any time
for the border. Equipment and rations
are complete. The following are the offi
cers: Adjt. Gen. Lee f. Tillotson of St. Al
bans; Capt. B. S. Hyland of Rutland, A
company; Capt. E. W. Gibson of Brattle
boro, I company; Capt. George E. Car
penter of Xorthfield, commanding the
machine gun company; First Lieut. H. P.
Sheldon of Fair Haven, batalion adjut
ant; Maj. Edmund J. Melville of St. Al
bans, camp physician.
The only complete unit is the machine
gun company of S3 men. The others
are: Headquarters detachment of 50 men
which, with eight on the border, compose
a company; tne supply detachment of 31
men with one on the border, and 158 un-
assigned recruits.
In the Orange County Official Ballot
That Is National Progressive.
Chelsea, Aug. 30. Nominating peti
tions for candidates for county office
have been filed with the county clerk
agreeable to the provisions of the new
primary law. The official ballot will
have three columns, as follows: One each
for the Republican, Democratic and na
tional Progressive parties. The candi
dates to be voted for on Sept. 12 are as
follows: In the Republican column will
appear the names of Charles H. Bigelow
of Rrookfield and George C. Flint of
Braintree, for senator; George L. Stow
of Chelsea, for judge of probate for the
Randolph district; Hammon T. Baldwin
of Newbury, for judge of probate for the
Bradford district; Clinton A. Adams of
Thetford and Benjamin H. Adams of
Chelsea, for assistant judges; A.ro A.
Reed of Williamstown. for sheriff; John
C. Sherburne of Randolph, for state's at
torney, and William E. Worthley of
Washington, for high bailiff. In the Dem
ocratic column, Victor A. Grant of Ran
dolph for senator is the onlv name that
will appear and the national Progressive
column will be blank.
Stanley C. Wilson, the present repre
sentative, has filed petitions as a candi
date to succeed himself and it is not ex
pected that there will be any opposition,
as no other candidate has filed papers for
that office.
DEATH OF PLAINFIELD GIRL
Miss Maud Townsend Died of Infantile
Paralysis at Jersey City.
Word was received in Bane and Plain
field to-day of the death at a hospital in
Jersey City, N. J., of Miss Maud Town
send, a well known Plainfield young
woman, from infantile paralysis. Death
occurred last evening, the young lady
having been taken sick a week or 10 days
ago while she was employed in a summer
hotel in Asbtiry Park, N. J. She "was
promptly removed to the hospital in Jer
sey City, where she continued to decline
rapidly. The remains are to be brought
to Plainfield early Thursday morning.
Miss Townsendwas the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Townsend, and she
also leaves a sister, Miss Minnie Town
send. Mrs. Frank Trow of Barre Town
is an aunt of the young woman. In
Plainfield, where the young woman was
born and received her education, she was
very popular. She went to Asbury Park
early in the summer to be employed in a
liotel.
Washington, D. C. Aug. 30. President
Wilson is making etforts to-day to have
the brotherhoods call off or postpone the
strike order, effective September 4. There
were indications that unless action is
aken by the brotherhood leaders in the
near future, the president may publicly
ask the railway workers that the strike
order be rescinded.
The continued efforts by all the agen-
ies of the administration to induce the
brotherhoods to recall the sir. order
were the outstanding features of the -
uation to-day. AH the influences that
could be brought to bear were being
utilized in an effort to convince the la
bor leaders that their action In calling a
strike while the negotiations were still
proceeding should be rescinded.
The brotherhood officials, after secur
ing copies of the proposed bill affecting
the situation, went into conference with
Secretary of Labor Wilson.
The Senate interstate commerce com
mit ten adopted a resolution providing
for hearings on the proposed legislation,
beginning at 9 o'clock to-morrow morn
ing. Railroad officials, brotherhood offi
cials and shippers' representatives were
invited to appear. The committee has
under consideration the tentative drafts
of three bills. One covers the proposed
eight-hour day and creating a wage com
mission. Another amends the Xewlands
act to make arbitration more effective.
The third provides for government oper
ation of railroads lor military neces
sities. The brotherhood heads insisted Mat
they had not been requested by the pres
ident of any other administration official
to postpone the strike and they said that
nothing but a satisfactory settlement of
their demands could prevent a walk-out.
rates from the east to inter-mountain
territory and from the Pacific coast to
tlm east, which it is estimated would
bring about, $20,000,000 additional an
nual revenue, were suspended to-day by
the interstate commerce commission. The
increases were to have become effective
at midnight.
CONDUCTORS' UNION
IS ENJOINED FROM
GOING ON STRIKE
Judge in Omaha Court Issued Order on
Petition of a Member of the Union
Who Declares He Wants
Continue at Work. -.
Omaha, Neb., Aug. 30. J Willis
E. Sears of the district cour 7" Douglas
county to-day issued an ord .straining
the local officials of the Or ' f Railway
Conductors from calling -nforcing a
strike on the lines of t' f inion Pacific
railroad. The order w.i. ssucd on the
petition of Edwin Hamilton, a conductor
on the Union Pacific line and a member
of thi'irder, who declares that he and
many ether employes of the road desire
to continue at work.
THEATRE LEASE
FOR JJLHOBAN
Aldermen Voted to Award
Contract for $800 for .
the Year
MR. HO BAN FORMERLY
.RESIDENT MANAGER
A RAILROAD EMBARGO
Will Be in Force on the New Haven Sys
tem in View of Strike Situation.
New York. Aug. 30. The New York,
New Haven & Hartford Railroad Co. an
nounced last night that because of the
tnpending railroad strike it will refuse
lereafter all shipments of freight which
cannot be delivered before 7 a. in. on
Sept. 4.
ith the announcement it was learned
that similar action is being considered bv
the other road entering the city.
Albert Hardin, vice-president of the
New York Central, said that A. IT.
Smith, the president, was expected here
from uashington to-day, when the ques
tion of establishing an embargo probably
would be considered.
The Delaware, I-acka wanna 4 Western
officials discussed the subject, but ac
cording to P. J. Flynn, one of the vice
presidents, reached no definite decision.
Mr. Flynrt asserted, however, that the
road's position probably would be an- j
nonnced by Ihursuay morning.
The Pennsylvania and other roads here
it was said also are undecided as yet,
but probably will announce their posi
tions with respect to embargoes in a day
or two.
The Erie Railroad Co. and its subsid
iary, the New York, Susquehanna i.
Western, have sent circular letters to
their 41.000 service employes, it was an
nounced here last night, asking them to
remain loval to their employers in the
event of a strike.
Several Other Matters At
tended to at Regular
Meeting of Board
FIVE PETITIONS DISMISSED
And 33 Applicants Were Granted Citizen
ship Papers.
EVERY FLOUR MILL
IN MINNEAPOLIS
WILL BE CLOSED
Within Half an Hour After Railroad
Strike Order Becomes Effective
All the Mills There are Filled
to Their Capacity.
Minneapolis, Aug. 30. Every flour
mill in the city will be closed 30 minutes
after the order for a nation-wide railroad
slrike becomes effective, according to the
announcement to-day by the Washburn
Crosby company. All the mills in the
city are tilled to their capacity with
no available storage space and no way
in which to move the output, says the
statement.
VOTERS APATHETIC.
BAPTIST OFFICERS CHOSEN
WHITMAN DECLARES IGNORANCE
Of Alleged Forged Signatures to His
Primary Petitions.
New York. Aug. 30. Governor Whit
man declared here last night that he had
no knowledge of alleged forged signa
ture to Progressive primary petitions
rircnlated in behalf of him-elf and other
Republican candidates as charged by
John J. O'ConnclI. chairman of the New
York centr.il Progressive committee.
ft otten occurs mat mistakes are
made bv notaries public, the governor
said. '"Men in the country districts oft
en authorize their names to be plaed
on a primary petition. Of course this
i against the law. If there are any
cuiltr parties I hope they will be rirose-
At Shaftsbury Association Meeting Held
in Brandon.
Brandon, Aug. 30. The second dav of
Few Appeared for the Revision of the
Checklist.
If the attendance at the first meeting
of the board of civil authority in Barre
for the revision of the checklist may be
taken as an earnest of the interest man
ifested in the forthcoming primary elec
tion, then there is reason for believing
that the electorate is rather apathetic.
Ten members of the board were present,
Frank G. Howland acting as chairman.
and only 19 changes were made. Few of
these were additions, as a majority of
COUNTESS BERNSTORFF ARRIVES.
Wife of German Ambassador Reached
New York on Dutch Steamer.
New York, Aug. 30. Countess von
Bernstorff, wife of the German ambassa
dor to the L'nited States, arrived here
yesterday on the Danish steamer Fred
erick VIII. She was met at quarantine
by the ambassador, who went down the
bay on a United States coast Cunard
cutter.
Before her marriage, the countess was
Jeanne Luckemeyer of this city. This is
her first visit to this ceuntrv since the
war began.
RAILROADS RUSH
EMBARGO ORDERS
HELD FIELD MEETING.
Vernon Grange and Windham County
Agricultural Association.
Brattleboro, Aug. 30. About 100 at
tended a field meeting of Vernon grange
the meetings of the Shaftshurv A.socia- the 19 appearances were, transfers from aml !h Umdha.n tounty Agricultural
tion of Baptist Churches was verv large
ly attended. Rev. A. R. Mills of the local
Baptist church, Rev. G. A. Kerr and Wal
ter Thorpe of the Methodist and Con
gregational churches welcomed the mem
bers and Rev. W. A. Iavison. D. I)., gave
an address. At 1:45 Rev. Thomas Adams
of Ira conducted devotional services.
There was a women's service at 3:30
o clock, addresses being given bv Mrs.
A. B. Upbam, Miss l iar A. Converse
and Miss Alice Rixhy of Japan. In the
evening lir. I . ll. J. ixmgo of Ilosfon
and Rev. lr. F. A. Agar of New York
City gave addresses.
1 he following oitieers ere elected at
the ministers' conferen.-e: President. Rev.
,T. S. Brown of Manchester; vice presi
dent, Rev. George W. Perk, jr.. of Rut
land; secretary. Rev. .1. H. Rluekbnrn of
Fair Haven. The officer ehvted for the
Shaftnitrv a -ia t ion were: Moderator,
Ker. E. J. Nye of Eat HiiLhcrdton;
cuted the him as I have prosecuted clerk. Rev. A. Aubert of Wallingford;
auch offender in the paet." treasurer, E. M. Biib of Twultnev,
1 . - 1 . I. ... T-u r 4-
Htr ntllll J Kliutliri, 1 IIC IIHIIlfl9 VI
voters who are believed to have moved
out of town since the last election were
stricken from the list, and the clerk was
instructed to advise the removals, of the
action taken. The second meeting and
probably the last session of the hoard for
the revision of the list will be held next
Tuesday evening in the courtroom at 8
o clock.
The follow ing names w ere entered last
night :
Ward 1 Alex. Burnett, Harry David
son. Raymond C. Cave.
Ward 2 Ewen McKenzie, J. N. Har
vey, James Somers, Janes T. Kenefick,
James M. Langley, A. E. Nichols.
Ward 3 Ira N. Houston, Harold J.
Morse, John Ine.
Ward 5 William Brown.
Ward 6 lohn J. Kenned v. Stanton
Wasntt, William It. Tarrv. 'Michael C.
Minrari, Charles T. Sibley, L. .?. Irish
There were no appearances from the
fourth ward.
association at A. A. lmnklees farm in
South Vernon yesterday. Addresses were
made by Mogens Toltrup, market agent
of the Vermont department of agricul
ture; Prof. George F. Story of the Ver
mont Agricultural college, and H. J.
Wilder, soil specialist of the United
States department of agriculture.
Some Have Already Refused to Take
Shipments of Livestock and Perish
ables Even Passengers are
Warned They May Be
Delayed.
Chicago, Aug. 30. The railroads of the
nations rushed preparations to-day to
enforce an embargo on perishable freight.
Shipments of livestock and perishables
were refused on some roads to-day. Oth
ers issued a warning that perishables
which cannot reach their destination by
Saturday cannot be accepted.
Associated Press dispatches from all
parts of the country indicated that with
in 48 hours, unless a delav in the strike
is order, embargo orders will be effective
on virtually every railroad. From Chica
go, the railroad center of the country, or
ders were flashed to ticket agents to in
form passengers that unless they reach
their destination by Sunday night they
may be subjected to perplexing delays.
GRAND TRUNK NOT AFFECTED.
Says President Chamberlin, If a Strike
is Called.
SMALL ATTENDANCE
Mason Sheldon Collapsed While at Work
in North End.
Mason Sheldon, a teamster's assistant
emnloved bv N. M. Nelson, was taken
Montreal, Aug. 30. The Grand Trunk ddenlv ill' while unloading shot at the
railway system will not be affected by jf. K. Lillie plant in Dlackwell street
the strike, according to a statement made !, hi, forenoon. Employes of Mr. Lillie
to-day by t. J. CflamDcrlin, president otgn,j driver of the team noticed his
the road.
Judge Harland B. Howe of St. Johns
bury, presiding at a session of L'nited
States district court held in Montpelier
yesterday for naturalization purposes,
granted citizenship papers to 33 appli
cants, 16 cases were continued, 14 by re
quest and two for study, and five were
dismissed, one by request, because of
lack of evidence that the applicants have
resided in this country for the necessary
length of time, i esterday s session was
the start of a three days' stay of the
court officials in Montpelier and it is ex
pected before Thursday night nearly 200
new citizens will have been made. Clerk
Fred S. IMatt is also granting the first
papers and taking applications for the
second. Other court officials arc I'nited
States Marshal Carpenter of Rutland,
Deputy Marshall George F. Lackey of
Montpelier and Examiner Allan F. Church
of Boston.
Following is the list of those granted
the final papers, together with their pres
ent residence and native country: Pas-
quale D'Julio, Barre, Italy: Efisio Mara
molo, Barre, Italy, John Robinson,
Barre, Canada; James Mcleod, Barre,
Scotland; George Silvesfro Sironi, Barre,
Italy; Luigi Miro, Barre, Italy; Giusep
pe Capra, Barre. Italy; Arthur Hibber
son Lund, Barre, England; Thomas Nicol,
Barre, Scotland; Vincenzo Lettini, Barre,
Italy; Jose Aeebo, Barre, Spain; Nicola
Cuzzone. Berlin, Italy; Nicola Sabine
D'Agostiiio, Barre, Italy; John McDon
ald, Barre. tSeotland; James McDonald,
Barre, Scotland; James Joseph McTigue,
Barre. Ireland; Carl Alfred Olson, Barre,
Sweden; James Vernon Laing, Barre,
Scotland; Arthur William I'irie, Barre,
Scotland; James Grant Murray, South
Barre, Scotland; William Admar Wright,
Barre, New Brunswick; James Ingram,
Barre, Scotland; James Andrew, Barre,
Scotland; Frank Grant Wilson, Barre,
Scotland; Anton Erickson, Barre, Fin
land; Ernesto I'asetto, Barre, Italy; Ca
lixe Simoneau. Barre, Canada; Angelo
Luigi Purioclli, Barre, Italy; Guido Fon
tana, Barre. Italy; John Lotti, Barre,
Italy; Antonio Bemasconi, Barre, Italy;
Alexander Jack Kirton, Barre, Scotland;
Carl Arvid Carlson, Berlin, Sweden.
Those who applied for the second pa
pers to Clerk Piatt vesterdav afternoon
and evening were Alfred Helie, North-
field, Canada; Olimpo Carderelli, North
Meld. Italy; John Kalizeem, Montpelier,
Russia; Erik Lvanas, Montpelier. Swed
en; Donato Coletti, Waterhury, Italy.
First papers were granted to Francisco
Rossi, Montpelier. Italy; Joseph Carr,
Montpelier. Russia.
TAKEN SUDDENLY ILL
For a year the board of aldermen set
tled the vexed question of the opera
house lease last evening by authorizing
the property committee to sign a con
tract with John K. Hoban, who is to pay
fSOO for the rental of the theatre from
Sept. 1, next, to Sept. 1, 1017. The de-
cision to award th lease to Mr. Hoban
followed) a summer of profitless negotia
tions which seemed to reach a climasc
some weeks ago when the city council
put an estoppel on the activity of ita
property committee by voting to ignore
all bids under $1,200. A report recom
mending that Mr. Mohan's offer of $800
be honored with acceptance was offered
by the committee last night and accepted
without a dissenting vote.
Theatre goers in UarYe will look with
expectancy upon the return of Mr. Ho
ban to the management of the opera,
house, as his experience in that capacity
while acting for Fox & Eaton during a
eriod of nearly 10 years was markedly
successful. Mr. Hoban is out of the cit'v
just now and it is not known whether he
will be connected with the Fox 4. Eaton
circuit in l!)lo-1917. The present lessees.
Nelson & Austin, are to relinquish their
Hold on the tneatre to-morrow night.
With a session of the board of civil
authority slated for 8 o'clock, the alder
men hurried through a budget of routino
business and reached adjournment in
time to participate in the revision of the
checklist in the courtroom. Copies of a
pamphlet containing the engineers' speci
fications for the proposed granite bridge
over South Main street were distributed
to each member of the board and there
was some talk of listening to a report
from the street committee on its confer
ence with the street railway officials, but
it wag finally decided to defer the hear
ing. A notice frorh the secretary of state
informed the city clerk that "the names
of all Barre residents serving with the
National Guard or elsewhere in the mili
tary service of the I'nited States be 'for
warded to him was read and referred
back to the clerk to comply with the re
quest. The names are to be used in con
nection with balloting in the September
primaries as a result of legislation
passed at the special session of the gen
eral assembly, when it was voted to
give the boys at the front a chance to
vote. The clerk also stated that Adjt.
Gen. L. S. Tillotson had furnished him
with a list of Barre Citv and Barre Town
residents who are enrolled in the Ver
mont National Guard at Eagle Pass. Tex.
On the recommendation of the building
inspector, permits were granted the fol
lowing applicants: Presbrey-Coykendall
Co., to erect a garage near their stone
shed; McDonnell A Sons and others to
erect a tool-sharpening shed on Circle
street. The inspector's monthly report,
referring to 34 minor permits granted,
was read and accepted. Walter Emery
of Elm street was given permission to
move a henhouse with the reservation
that the location be satisfactory to the
building inspector.
Wiring permits were granted as fol
lows: D. Ossola, to install a motor in a
spaghetti establishment; Montpelier &
P.arre Light & Power Co., to install three
meters in Barre residences; G. Aja, to
install electric lights in residence on
lierlin street; Homer Fitts, to install
lights in Cliff street house. J. B. Estea
of the state fair commission was given
permission to stretch a fair banner across
the main street with the usual restric
tions. Alderman Reynolds voiced a complaint
Jof Maple avenue people to the effect that
popiar irees in umi uisuirt are oecum
ing obnoxious through the mushroom
growth of long branches that overhang
the walk. It was set forth in the com
plaint that the boughs interfere with the
comfort of pedestrians, especially in
rainy weather, and the grievance was re
ferred to the chairman of the street com
mittee. The member from ward 4 also
called attention to the unsafe condition
of the Prospect avenue sidewalk and
asked for action. The matter was left
with the street committee to investigate.
Warrants were approved for payment
in the following order: Street depart
ment payroll, $432.40, sprinkling, sewers,
sidewalk and health accounts; water de
partment payroll, $HS.4!; fire department
psvroll. $79.30; police department pay
roll, $6.47; O. A. Bemis. $14, services as
janitor; Martin Riley. $4, services as as
sessor; R. D. Wood Co., 2.304.37, iron
pipe; C. Luis, S. Corey. A. Bottiggi, Mrs.
-Tames Booth and George Reid, $4.R0 each
for tax rebates; F. U. Tracy, $70.95, J.
Broggini's board bill at the county jail;
Washington County Farm bureau,
$274.S4. city's share of county tax.
HIGH FRICES FOR CATTLE
At Vermont State League of Postmas
ters at St, Albans.
St. Albans. Aug. SO.-There was but
small attendance at the annual meeting
of the Vermont State League of Post
masters of the third and fourth r!as
which opened here yesterday afternoon.
Among the officers present were Pres.
W. W. Wright of Montgomery Center
and Sec. Robert II. Rove of Johnson.
The postmasters went to Swanton and
inspected the postofln-e there. I hey were j
rntertained at lun- neon last evening at
the Taquabuiiga. club.
INCREASED RATE
TARIFF IS HELD UP
BY COMMISSIONERS
Changes Which It U Estimated Would
pfing $20,000,000 Additional Revenue x
to Railroads Were to Have Become
ESective To-night,
Sixty Head of Holsteins Sold at Brattle
boro for $9,000.
Brattleboro. Aug. 30. At an auetion
sale of Holstein cattle here yesterday, In
the new pavilion erected by the Pur
was taken to the City hospital in the : Bred Live Stock Sales t o. of Brattleboro,
rerrv A Noons n ambulance.
condition and hurry calls were wnt in
for a doctor and an ambulance. When
IV. O. . Stickney arrived the man was
unconscious and a few moments later he
j head were sold for a total of about
This afternoon it was stated that Shel- jnoO. Several of the animals will go t
don was suffering from spasms, to which I Chicago and several to Ariiona.
he has been subject at times for a week A two-year old heifer,. consigned by
past. He had net wholly recovered, it J. W. Irentis Son of Alstead. X. Y..
was said, alf hough bis condition indi.-at- brought tie highest rie of the day, F.
ed that be would be a!.!e to leave t!!c!H. M-tcalf of Holyok. Ma.. paying
ihofj iul within a few Javs. Mdn' i I20 f.w her. Mr. Meteahf bought five
j home is in the A. Tomai Wo. k and heib- ad for l.Ui. K. R. Sanders of Mesa.
Washington, ft C Aug. 31. Prop'eJ ha been in the crr.fdoy of Mr. Ne!sn but 1 Aril., was the heaviest purchaser, buy-
in reases in transcontinental fre gt a short time. ing eignt liea4 tvr fl.loj.
