7"
III
DAILY EDITION
"VOL.TI., So. 208.
GRANTS PASS, ioSEPHIlf B COUKTT, OREGON. WKDM28DA1T, AUGUST 80, 1910.
WHOLE NUMBER J.8ST.
No Other Ti".'' V ( Jhe World the Size of Grants Pass Has a Paper With Pull Leased Wi re Telegraph Service.
"0-
RAILROADS PLACE ElVtBARGO ON THE
SHIPMENT OF PERISHABLE FREIGHT
Impending Strike of 400,000 Trainmen Within the United
States Is First Felt When Roads Issue Orders Against
Carrying ol Perishables. Including Foodstuffs and Live
stock That Can Not Reach Destination Before Sept. 4
Nw York. Aug. 30. All Indica
tion! tbli afternoon are that the eoin
morcejf the United Btatea will be vir
tually at a standstill by Saturday, it
the order railing the 400,000 mem
bers of the trainmen'! brotherhoods
out on atrlke September 4 la not with
drawn. And the blow will tall first
on the food aupply of the nation.
The paralysing effect of turn a
trlke a now aeema Inevitable waa
borne home to railway head, union
offlclala and ahlppera alike aa ordera
vent out from rarloua railway head
quarters eatabllshlng embargoea on
all perishable goodswhich Include
foodstuffs.
The Pennsylvania railroad, repre
aentlng one of the biggest ayetema In
the country, Issued a statement an
nouncing an embargo which Includes
freight of every description. Thla
meani the Pennsylvania will attempt
to move no freight after Saturday.
The Ijtrkawanna followed the lead
of the New Haven road and other
Toada by announcing an embargo on
perishable gooda that can not be de
livered before September 4. ,
The Erie, one of the biggest freight
carrying lines, had reaheed no defin
ite dectalon thla afternoon, but a
statement waa expected from Prcsl
Jent Underwood tomorrow, In the
meantime, however, the road Issued
a warning to shippers that freight ac
cepted now waa with the understand
Ing that It would be available for de
livery before Monday.
The Now York Central offlclala wre
meeting thla afternoon to decide aa
to their action regarding an embargo.
The Atlantic Coait line nnd a score
of other roada were expected to an
nounce a ban on perishable freight
within the next 18 houra.
Moat of the roads In the middle
ret nave acted and food prices were
reported advancing rapidly.
In New York measures have been
taken to prevent unwarranted ad
-varices In foodstuffa prlcea.
Although moat of the ordera from
railroad headquartera provide that the
embargoea on perishable goods and
livestock shall become effective aa to
ahlpmenta for delivery after Septem
ber 4, It Is realised that owing to the
congestion under normal conditions,
all fresh ahlpmenta will virtually
cense after Saturday. From the per
Ishable gooda the embargo la expected
to be extended to other commodities
unless the railroads find some effec
tive way of keeping trains In opera
tion. The Pennsylvania has taken the
load In extending the embargo to all
lines of freight from the start.
St. Paul, Aug. 30. The Hill lines
today simultaneously placed an em
bargo on ahlpmenta of perlahablo
freight that will not reach their de
stination Saturday. These linos are
the Northern Pacific, the Great North
ern and the Burlington.
Kansas City, Aug. 80, Ato embar
yo on all kinds of freight waa placed
In effect on the Union Paclflo railroad
this morning. No freight that can
not be delivered by noon Saturday Is
being accepted.
Chlcngo, Aug. 30. An embargo on
perishable freight, explosives and
livestock was declared today by the
Chicago, Milwaukee A St, Paul rail
road, The embargo provided t hat no
freight of these classes will be re
ceived which wtll not reach lis destin
ation by September 3, nt 0 a, m,
.1, Z L L, , "
tTll1ni4lttli1fa aii.r Oft Tim LY.tiitt
. .....-, p.. ;- -
sylvanla railroad will carry "oo
freight" after Saturday, It waa an
nounced at the goneral offices here
thla afternpon.
New York. Aug. SO rirat etfecta
of the impending nation-wide atrlke
which will tie up the commerce of the
country, were being felt todayfour
daya before the walk-out of the 400,
000 members of the big four. brother
hooda la scheduled.
Probably never In the hlatory of
railroading hare the big lines of the
country fared auch a situation as Is
now presented. Many lines hare al
ready put an embargo on all freight
which can not be delivered before
September 4. Shippers and buyers
,are making frantic efforts to move
good or lay In an extraordinary sup
Ply. Thousands of persona, on vacations
or away from home on buslneaa, are
rutting their trips short.
The New York, New Haven ft Hart-
ford railroad was the first to declare
an embargo on freight in the eaatern
district: The New York Central.'
Pennsylvania, Erie, Uckawanna and
NeV York, Susquehanna ft Western
are expected to follow suit. No fft
tempt Is made by the roads to min
imise the probable effect of a atrlke
on the passenger traffic.
Not only are the railroads feeling
the effect of the Impending atrlke, but
banks are also being flooded with de
manda from big business houses, en
deavoring to purchase supplies In
"tralnload lota." Thla meana more
'than trebling their usual orders In
jmost cases, and consequent hurried
arrangements for financing the deals.
I Owing to the heary traffic and ear
i shortage under normal conditions, It
(la realised that the railroads may not
be able to handle any more freight
than Is now actually on hand. This
would mean business houses which
failed to get In their extra orders
prior to this week will probably be
caught short. '
All produce houses and other firms
dealing In perishable goods were
making frantic efforts to get ship
ments now en route delivered. Once
the strike Is In effect, the food aupply
In the large cities of the country I
probably will not hold out more than
a week, unless some way Is found of
getting foodstuffa to them.
In the meantime, all eastern roads flor cities or coos Day puii-
are making preparations for theled ofr ,at weeR a celebration which
strike, endeavoring to arrange forihas P,nced them In the front rank of
men to operate trains. All workers Progressive cltlee, a celebration see
not affiliated with the brotherhoods on to none In the state out
are called upon to stand by the com- i,de of the metropolis. The Jubl
ponles. The Erie has Issued a notice ,ee wai ,n celobratlon of the comple
that employes remaining "loyal" will "on of the railroad giving that see-
be regarded as senior employes of the uon ra" connection wun tne out
company. Warning la also given that Bldft wor'd- "Booet for Cooa" was
'men Joining the 'strike leave the eer- nt the alogan of one town only, but
rice of the company and lose all rlghta Marehfield, North Bend, Coqullle,
and privileges. Dandon, Myrtle Point, the beaches,
! Despite the orders of the four "d. all aectlona working together for
i brotherhoods that all employes must the one object of bringing Coos bay
! avoid trespass and Interference with to the notice of the world.
1 property In the strike, the New Haven North Bend had the celebration for
road haa asked sheriffs and police offl- the flrBt dT ad they entertained the
Hals In town along Its lines to be thouaanda of visitors In royal style,
prepared to protect the railroad prop- their business streets and many real
erty. donees being handsomely decorated.
; The second day was Cobs county day,'
OUST AltTILt.KllV COMPANIKS
ARK ORDKUKl HOMK
'
, Washington, Aug, 30. Tho 28
companies of coast artillery, which
were sent to the 1ordor to act aa In-
fantry before the calling out of the
national guard, have been ordered to
return to their proper stations at the
eohH dnatterles 0r the eastern
.....I ......... i a
' uHHim.MH,. .
ED
OF
COMING STRIKE
Chicago, Aug. 30. The traveling
public and shippers were warned by
western railroads today to prepare
far a strike, Monday. Sblppera were
notified today by a dozen roads run
ning out of Chicago that perishable
freight that would not arrive at Its
destination on or before (Saturday
would not be accepted. The Santa Fe
haa already Issued an order to IU
agents to refuse shipments of perish
ablea and livestock at once.
Other roads taking aa sweeping an
action, but putting their time limit
ahead of Saturday for freight deliv
eries. Include the Burlington, North
ern Pad Be, Rock Island, Southern
Pacific, Missouri, Kansas ft Texas, St
Louts ft San Francisco, Louisville ft
Nashville and the Mobile ft Ohio.
Remaining railroads are expected
to take similar action within 24
hours.
A atrlke of 6.000 freight handlers
In Chicago has been called for this
afternoon. The only way to avert it
Is by submission of the roads to the
men's demands the right of business
agents to collect dues from union
members during certain houra of em-
ployment at the freight houses,
More
than S00 are out on three roads now.
The Burlington plans to fight the
strike and has prepared to hire
strikebreakers, according to Thomas
Pratt, special agent of the road. If
a strike la called. It will tie uo all
Chicago freight shipments. There la
enough meat, eggs and canned vege
tables In cold storage here to keep
Chlcagoana ln food for a year In case
of a strike. The only danger Is an Ice
and coal shortage. Coal dealers say
the present coal aupply would be ex
hausted within five daya. With no
coal to generate cold air for refriger
ating houses, the food supplies stored
In these houses would quickly spoil.
Artificial Ice plants would be com
pelled to close. '
An order to quit work at 6 a. m.
Monday was given Rock Island em-
Continued on page i)
"Roost for Coos" Is the slogan un-
on which the smaller towns kept open
house as they Individually preferred,
receptions, fish dinners, concerts, plc-
nlcs and automobile and steamer rides
being Included,
The last rtav of'th cfilohrtttlon u
Marshflold day and that city showed
t0 wonderful effect the results of the
team work of enterprising and pro
irro.lv cltllon. mvarvnna hint a
g0od WOrd for his own city and the
neighboring city, and their whole de -
PUBLIC
WARN
COMING OF THE BI1D CK
FIF FOT RFIfllflC'Flfl PFIFK RAY
ui u111.11 1 111.ju1u1.iu: uii UUUV Ul 1 1 1
OFFICIAIDOWI
OEHAFJY
SHAKEN UP
Kaiser Makes Radical Changes
in m;i
ui luimiui sum ssijh vuuuu, Two trays of gold which were Uken
leadership After Rouna;L T5w
ian Declaration ef Warj"eJierro'"",r ''"" '
, The robbery occurred about. 1:10
London, Aug. 30. Radical changes'
i
In German military and diplomatic I
leadership were made by the kaiser,
following Roumanians appearance ln
the war drama as a new enemy.
Despatches from Berlin today not
only confirmed the dismissal of Gen
eral Falkenhayn as chief of the Ger
man general staff, but reported Field
Marshall von Mackenaen In all prob-
ability will succeed ron Hindenburg
In auoreme command of the Auatro-
German armies an the Russian and
Roumanian fronts.
Von Hindenburg has been appoint-
ed chief of the general ataff, sue -
ceeding Falkenhayn. " r0DDer Bloa P " ana,
i Despite his advanced age, General inning out of the side window, re
iron Kluck may be recalled to active ; tnrned ,the flre- Fifteen or sixteen
jserrlce and glvjn command of one ,ihots were "changed,
iof the Austro-German armlea that! ' -5urin the firing, pedestrians de
iwill attempt to stem the Rosso ! c,ared- the "mouslne "lowed np and
I Roumania invaalon of Hungary. itbe driTer attempted to flee, but that
There la no confirmation of a re-!tbeT saw the robber put his rerolver
'port from The Hague that hoth For-,to tt drlTe",' head wd order him to
ielgn Secretary ron Jagow and Under !dr,?e on- He dld PoUce In the
Secretary Zimmerman tendered their Golden Gate park district had been
ireslgnatlons after Roumania declared j110 "d they captured the bandit
.'war. It has been learned from Berlin!" b,s car entered the park. The
j however, that neither participated inj8to,en &o'd " found in his car.
the conference between Chancellor Tbe robber was rushed to detective
ron Bethmann-Hollwesr and -.-tain
nf hi- minister, that rntlnwaH h
few hours the news of Roumanla's
action.
! From Dntch sources It was reported
, today that the kaiser already had
ordered the dismissal of German dip
lomats responsible for falling to keep
Roumania out of the war.
A. E. Bailey left this morning for
Tucson, Ariaona, after spending sev
eral weeks at this place attending to
business matters.
sire seemed to be to help the rlsltor
have a good time. The Industrial par
ade at Marshfleld was a revelation to
all, the parade being one which would
hare done credit to a city of fifty
thousand. There were numerous
bands of muBlc. the Rosarlans of
Portland, the Cherrians of Salem, and
the Radlatos of Eugene each being
represented by bands and hundreds
of uniformed marchers. There were
floats, decorated automobiles, Juvenile
section, and a monBter train of 40
cars of mammoth loga from the
Smith-Powers forests, representing
one-third of a day's run of their mon
ster mill, which Is considered to be
the moat complete in the world. The
music of bands." the decorated stores
and streets, the throngs of people
which crowded the thoroughfares.and
the hundreds of automobiles, all
went to make the day a memorable
one to hoth residents and visitors.
One noticeable feature of the cele
j bratton was the great number of spe
cial trains, each filled to capacity, and
the number of automobile parties who
j traveled a hundred miles or more
over highways which will require vast
j sums of money to bring them up to
the dignity of the title of automobile
j roods. There were newspaper men,
aiso, representatives or 20 or more
'cf the prominent papers of the state,
POLICE CAPTURE
il l T 1
T
I
San Francisco, Aug. 30. A sensa
tional daylight robbery of the Six
teenth and Mission street branch of
the Anglo-California bank this after
noon ended after a running light be
tween the bandit and the police when
the bandit was captured In Golden
(Gate park.
. . M
dressed young man, drove up to the
Dank ln a 1Im0UBlne &nd uUng tne
driver to wait for him, entered the
hank. Covering Cashier Hugh Sutter
with a revolver, the bandit scooped
np two trays of gold lying on the
cashier's deak and fled out by the
door. . A moment later his llmonalne
started with a roar and was dashing
np the street before an alarm could
ibe k1-
bank watchman ran out of the
I bank and opened fire on the limousine
" U Bped UD Skteenth "treet, and
;nl - -aaniade was Joined In by aereral
"r Policemen. f
uuu"e na w" DBn examinea
.1 ...... ... a . . .
; 2 O'clock.
IN ALPS WRECKED
Rome, Aug. 30. The famous
Tomos Pass railway tunnel through
the Transylvania Alps haa been dyna
mited and completely wrecked by the
AuBtrlans to check the Roumanian ad
vance on the Important city of Kron
atadt. (The Tomos Pass tunnel is about
900 feet long and is situated on the
Bucharest-Buda Pest railway, Just In
side the Transylvania frontier, 11
miles south of Kronstadt.)
Sharp fighting occurred In the
- - -. O " " .iwuio Mill,
the Roumanian declaration of war.!
Roumanian detachments, advancing
from Predeal, crossed the frontier
and attacked an Austrian frontier
guard. Part of the Austrian force
was captured and the Roumanians
then withdrew to the border, where
they entrenched and repulsed
counter-attacks by reinforced Aus
trian troops. i
On the extreme wings the Rou
manians are pressing forward Into
Hungary with a plncer-Uke movement
that threatens to squeexe the Teutons
out of all southeastern Transylvania.
Unofficial reports from Bucharest to
day said that Roumanian vanguards
which formed a Junction with the
Russians In the north hare pushed
forward more than a mile Into Tran
sylvania territory. The Roumanians
have invaded Transylvania In force
on the southern border south of Her
mannstadt and were engaged near
the Red Towe,r pass when last reports
were received at Geneva-
bankers, four of them marching
abreast representing a total of $100,-
000,000, men of prominence in the
Btate, all attracted to Cooa bay by the
cordial Invitation extended and the
desire to visit a section which 'has
shown unusual enterprise.
RECOVER
0
RAILWAY
TUIIEL
U. S. CRUISER
fjiehphis
ON ROCKS
Warship Is Wrecked S23
Dcs&go Hartsr When a
Stem Drives Her Asicre,
ad 20 Ilea Lcse Lives
Washington, Aug. SO. More that
20 men are dead, 10 seriously injured
and 67 slightly Injured of the crew of
the cruiser Memphis, driven on the
rocks In Santo Domingo harbor lata)
yesterday. Admiral Pond reported to
the nary department this forenoon.
' The Memphis was hit by terrifla
swell as she lay at anchor ln the har
bor. Pond reported. Effort was made
to get np steam. So great was the
swell a great amonnt of water was
believed to hare been ahipped that
the main steam line of the Memphis
broke. . One man was killed and the
Injuries to all of the 77 were heliered
to hare been caused by the explosion
Pond reiterated his former state
ment that more than 20 men return
ing from shore ln a motor boat were
drowned. - '- ' ;:".. .
. Two officers were Included In the
list of injured, Pond said. . v
The gunboat Castlne, which narrow
ly escaped the fate of the Memphis,
In at sea with all her boats but one
lost, her steering gear disabled, Pond
reported. The ship, however, is un
der control. . t
The tug Potomac, which left San
Domingo City for Port Palenqne at
1:30 p. m. yesterday, is said to b
eafe, but there is no word from her.
Admiral Pond's report added ser
eral men to the missing list. Several?
additional men, he said, probably have
been drowned.
The text of Pond's latest dispatch,
follows: " '
"All hands off Memphis. Captain
Beach was the last to leave the ship.
When storm struck steam was np and
main , engines working, but main
steam line burst. Cause unknown.
Those near too seriously Injured to
be questioned. Two officers injured,
but will recover. One enlisted man
dead, five seriously injured, five very
seriously, sixty-seven slightly injured,
mostly ln engineer force. Several
men missing, probably drowned. Com
plete muster and report expected thla
morning. No other casualties among
officers."
The name of the only officer Injured
giren out today by the nary depart
ment is Lieut. Claude A. Jones,
Charleston, W. Va., seriously burned,
but will recover.
The machinist killed was G. W..
Rudd, and the department withheld
his address until his family had been,
notified. .
Seriously Injured: M. F. McVeigh.
ordinary seaman; W. S. Plauck, water
tender; T. J. Leary, foreman; H. A.
Bryan, seaman; J. J. Egan, fireman.
Slightly Injured number 87, un
named.
With reference to the men lost on
the motor boat, the message said
"several men missing, drowned. Mus
ter roll left on board and only Incom
plete muster has therefore been made.
Will hare exact muster made early "
tomorrow morning and report the
missing."
The hospital ship Solace, which
was at the east end of Haytl, Is en
route to San Domingo to take care of
the Injured. The naral transport
Dixie, en route from Vera Crui to Key
West with American Consul Rodgers
and Mexican Commissioner Cabreara
on board, has been intercepted by
radio and ordered to the scene to pick
up the uninjured crew. .
Milon. Jones went to Klamath Falls
this morning and will spend some
time at that place. , '
7
