THIRTY-FIRST YEAR.
NORTH PLATTE, NEB., MARCH 3, HJ16.
No. 14
CITY AND COUNTY NEWS.
Olivor Carroll, of tho Howo & Mn
lonoy Co., yas taken, 111 the first of
tho week wth measles.
Mrs, II. L. Pennington lias returned
from n visit with her sister, Mrs. II11
mor Thompson, In Chappell.
Twenty-five marriage licenses were
i-sucd at the county Judge's office dur
ing tho month of Fehrunry.
Miss Hanniih Koliher of Omaha, who
has been the guest of local friends for
a fortnight, expects to return homo
Wednesday evening.
Earl 15 Huffner and Miss Caroline
Anna Cooper, of Wollfleet, were mar
ried Wednesday afternoon by County
Judge French.
Mr. and Mrs. James John, of Cam
bridge, who were the guests of Mr.
and Mrs. Andy Yost this week, left
Wednesday by auto.
Miss Carrie" Aboe, iof Mankato, Kans.,
who spent several weeks with her
sster, Mrs, Andy Yost, returned home
the ilrst of this week.
Thomas Gilmartin, of Sterling, for
merly of this city, will arrive liore this
evening, being summoned by the death
of his uncle, the late J. B. Murphy.
Edward Brazleton, of Hastings, is
spending a few days in town with
friends. Mr. Brazleton is a brother of
Frank Hrazolton, formerly of this city.
An unusually pretty line of spring
hats is being displrvyec ai the Whlt
taker Parlors, and the ladles are re
quested to call and Inspect them. 14-1
Mr. and Mrs. Andy Yost loft a few
days ago for Cambridge to visit with
friends after which they will spend
sfveral weeks with relatives In Man
kato, Kansas.
Miss Villa Whitaker, who had been
purchasing her stock of spring milli
nery in eastern cities, was taken ill
while enroute here and is delayed at
tho home of her sister, Mrs. Edgar
Schiller in Central City. Until her re-
KCONO.MIC shout couiisi:
ATTKM)KI BY .MANY
Tho Home Economics short course of
tho extension norvTco of the State Uni
versty secured by the Twentieth Cen
tury Club opened in tne Masonic hall
Tuesday forenoon and will close this
evening with "Hotter Uablcs" films and
an address at the Keith. Morning and
evening sessions have been held each
of tho four days at the Masonic hall,
and tho attendance has averaged cbont
200 at each session.
Tile course 'is in charge of Miss
Mary Rokahr and Miss-Maude Wilson,
tho latter a teaehor in tho North Platte
schools a number of years ago. Tho
subjects treated covered about every
thing connected with the home foods,
and their preparations, garmont cut
ting and fitting, kitchen equipment and
labor-saving devices, the child wel
fare movement, and what Nebraska
womon aro doing along tho lines of
bettor living.
This afternoon a reception will bo
given In honor of Mrs. Davlsson, who
will make tho address at tho Keith this
evening.
::o::
Hillltini Tournament Supper.
Tho supper donated to the Henley
tram in the lately completed Elks' bil
liard tournament was served in tho
dining hall last evening by Steward
Smith and a half dozen assistants.
Saner kraut cooked with pig tails,
baked pork and beans, roast pork, rel
ishes and bread and coffee constituted
the menu and was greatly relished by
tho eighty men Who constituted the
two teams.
::6::
Tho Kendo, dancing club will hold
the first of a series of dances nert
week.
Theodoro Sandall Jr., has returned
from Denver where he visited last
week.
W. J. Tilcy, who has been working
in the eastern part of the state in the
interests of tho Yeomen, for some time,
will return tho first of tho week.
Mr. and Mrs. .Tosonh L. Murnhv and
turn the millinory parlors in the "Wil-iMr. and Mrs. II. I. Smith will accom
cox store will bo n charge of her as-,muy the remains of tho late John 13.
sistant, Miss Flo Johnston and her, Murphy to Creston, Iowa, Sunday
mother, Mrs. Whtttaker. I morning.
If you want the best results use
r
'.i
,rttf SACK Glj'Ai?ANTr 4
-
i.vjnf
- 3 l, ! '
ITS BETTBfl
HERROD GROCERY
PHONE 208.
HEALTH HINTS
A cold may como from poor digesilon and a laxative, a day in bed
and a hot water bottle may cure it. Do not wear damp shoos, or over
cover your throat. Lotion for nlargement and redness of aoso: Mur
iato of Ammonia 1 dram, tannic acid Ms dram, glycerine 2 o.: , rose
water 3 oz. Bind saturated cottton on tho nose ait night until eurou.
Let us make tho lotion for you.
"ch STOP THAT COLD!
swffia2Sj "aaaa ir n is sekiuus acts
.Model Store In the Schools
A model store was installed In the
fifth grado room of tho Lincoln school
this week. Tho shelving and counter
was mado by tho Janitor and the stock
ot goods was secured by Supt Tout
from an eastern publishing houso
which has Interested itself in tho in
stallation of theso model stores In a
number of picked schools. Packages,
cans, cartons, boxes and bottles, made
ip In dummies by manufacturers of
standard goods aro placed on the shelf
and the storo is opened. Sales are
mndo, bills figured, Invoices aro made,
change is computed and other opera
tions ,cf arithmetic are mado real by
actual business practice. Oifo liioni'
ber of tho Hoard after examining into
tho work of tills Innovation and In
specting it cnrefully declared that it
is the most practical thing he has soon
in schools. Miss Doran is working out
the plan llrst but other rooms will be
given a chance to have It later.
LOCAL AN1 PERSONAL.
Dr. Morrill, Dentist. McDonald Hank
Huilding.
In tho South Omaha market yostor
day tho bulk of the hogs sold at $8.55.
Miss Mand Hios, of the local teach
ing staff, Is confined to tho houso with
measles.
D. H. Gould, of Grand Island, arrived
hero Wednesday to accept a position
with Harkalow Hros. Co.
W. P. Snyder left last evening for
the custom part pf tho stato to spend
several days on business.
Miss Hollo Harper, of the Wilcox de
partment stxre. Is off duty this week
on account of Illness.
Attorney P. H. Ilnlllgan left last ev
ening for Omaha to spend sovoral days
on business.
.MK.MIIKHS OP Till: 1!)1(!
(JHAOIUTIXJ ('LASS
President. Harldo Hurke; vice-president,
Helen Alden; secretary, Alta
Derryberry; treasurer, Jack Husband;
advisor, Miss Duller.
Class Koll Helen Aldeo, Edwnrd
Hogue, Orvul Drenuenmn, Harold
Hurke, William Calhoun, Vera Carter,
Ilertha Clothier, Cecil (Vol, Ili-lcn
Cross, Alta Derryberry, Itoy Dial,
Fern Douglass, Gertrude Faulkner,
Madge Flyim, Sybil Gnntt, Helen C.lea
son, Effie Haddorf, John Hauler, Dor
othy I Unman, Jack Husband, Lewis
Kolly, Kuth Loan, John Lincoln, Mari
on Uiwaon, Clarence McCabe, Deulnh
McGraw, Mancel Overman, Earllng
Qualloy, Orley Heneau- Hazel Smith,
George Thompson, Sherwood Wood
hurst. John Weinberger, Kenneth
Weinberger, Lola Scott.
Figures compiled In tho superintend
ent's office, today show that Helen Al
den has the best record in the Senior
Class and she will bo the valedictorian
of tho class at tho graduation exorcis
es. Only thoBO members of tho class
who have earned all of their credits
In the N'orth Platte High School aro
eligible to this honor. Orvnl Dronne
man who took tho last two years of his
course In North Platte has a very fine
record also.
-::o::-
Dcalh of John It. Murphy.
Tho sudden death of John D. Mur
phy 'on Thursdny morning was a
shock to the entire community.
Dentil dame without warning, as he
left his homo in tho best of health and
cheerful spirits, shortly after seven
o'clock, to begin his duties for the day
In the Union Pacific round house where
he had been employed for soveral
! years as a machinist. While on his
way to work he mot and convers d
will several friends and hnd Just en
tered tho building when the summons
came, and ho fell unconscious before
ho had changed his street suit to his
working clothes, or placed his lunch
box In tho cupboard. His follow
workmcn quickly rendered their as-
Asa Summers, of Moore, and Miss, sstnneo, but tho spirit had taken Its
Alberta Conkright, of Tryon, will bo (light and ho was removed to his homo
married at Tryon today. Friends from on oast Third street.
town will attend. i Mr. Murphy was an Ideal husband
nnd father, an upright, honornblo cit
izen, and a faithful member of the
Catholic chinch and Knights of Col
umbus. Of a quiot, retiring disposl
Palm -Leo Cigar 10c.
14-tf
Mrs. Edward Harraclough is assist
ing as teacher in the local schools
during tho Illness of one of tho regu
lar teachers.
The ladies' auxiliary of the Spanish
War Veterans will meet Tuesday af
ternoon at : o'clock in the First Na
tional bank building.
state library board, who visited Miss
Annie Kramph, left this morning .for
western part of the stato.
The leap year dance hich was to
have, been hold in the Masonic hall
tills evening by Misses Mario Marfini,
Catherine Hall and Hazel Darber, has
been postponed until after lent.
For Rent 0 room hosse east I!rd
street. Inquiie Ilerrod store. 14-1
The Ivanhoo dancing club will give
a private masquerade dnmcc nt tho
Lloyd opera house Tuesday evening,
March 7th, to which all Yeomen are
invited.
Mrs. York Hlnnian informnlly enter
tained last evening complimentary to
Miss Maude Wilson, one of tho lectur
ers in the short course, and a former
teacher in tho high school.
Weather forecast furnished by the
local office of the U. S. weather bu
reau: Fair tonignt ami saiuniay, ris-
tion, ho was a valuable omployo nnd
Announcement
Mrs: Ora Sailor wishes to announce
that she Is not out of tho millinery
business this season, but has Jus( re
turned from the spring ninrkots.and
Is preparing to show a more complete
and up-to-date lino of hats than over
beft.To, and 'Invites the ladles to call
and look ovor the stock before buvtng.
At Hlock's.
: :o: !
T. F. Watts, of Grand Island, came
last evening to spend n few days here.
Mr. nnd Mrs. A. L. Hassett left Wed
nesday evening for Kansas City whore
they will make their home.
Mrs. Kdlor, of Cedar Itaphls, arrived
hero a few days ago to visit Mrs. Her
man Sodornmn and Mrs. Fred Westom
feld. Mrs. W. II. Hlalock roturned yester
day morning from Rochester, Minn.,
where she visited hor sister for sov
eral weeks at the hospital.
" Dr. W. T. Pritchard. slate stallion
inspector of North Platto, wan In Goth
enburg Monday inspecting a carload
of stallions imported by 11. W. Truman
from tho Pioneer Stock Farm, Hush
nell, 111. Gothenburg Independent.
LA I) IKS AHK KNTKKTAINK!)
HV KI'ISCOPAL CHirUCHMKN
The Eplscopnl church basement was
the scone of a very cnjoynblo gather
ing Wednesday evening when tho men
of tho church ontortalnod the Indies of
tho church at a supper. Fully one hun
dred ladles woro present and served
with a splendid suppor prepared by
Mrs. James Hart and served by thlrty
flvo nion. During and nrtor tno supper
BolccboiiB were rendered by a four
ploco orchestra and a number of
stunts were pulled off by sbmo of tho
comedlniis who assisted In tho serving
In fact the ladies woro kopt well
amused every mlnuto from seven to
hair past nine. Tho throwing of ribbon
streamers, tho blare ,ot horns ono of
which was placed nt each plate tho
frolicsome play with toy balloons and
selections by u company of male sing
ers furnished tho after-supper amuse
ment, and the crowd was about ns
Jolly as possible. The ladles unaml
mously requested the men to make the
supper an annual affair.
Such gatlierngs ns theso the ming
ling of the, people of tho parish; tho
"rubbing of shoulders" and tho hearty
greotings is certain to awaken Inter
est in church affairs and arouso en-
Tlio Tribune was wrongly Informed (IihhImriii ,,,,, n, ,., v.
as to the dato upon which nomination cmplMcuHon of the "gct-togother"
filings for county ofTlces could bo;6,lrt Illul lho nueuco for good which
made. The las day Is March 18th, comC8 from "mixing." Tho oommlttco
thirty days in advance of the primary . clmrK0 rocoiVed many compliments
election. for tnca 8accoas 0( evening.
C. II. Entplo reports tho burglary of! ::o::
his store room Monday night. . Sovoral lrnnm Sermon at the Hnptlst Church,
pairs of shoes, sonio canned goods and Sunday night another drnma ser
othor articles were carried away' by , mon will be given at the Baptist
the intruders, wlu gained admission church. This sermon will bo tho henv
by opening a door.oSutherland Free lest of Its kind which tho pastor has
Luncc. 1 undertaken. It requires nine charnc-
::o:: tors for tho drama. This sermon will
Trees, Shrubbery and lliilbs. bo historical and will irclnto In drama
I ropresont tho Falrbury -nuraorv, of form tho persecution which tho Chrls
Fairbury, Neb., nnd for tho next five tlnn church underwent during tho
weeks will sell all kinds of choice reign of Nero, A. D. C. The sermon,
nursery stock, shrubbery, bulbs, etc., will be given in the four following
at very reasonable prices Also willicones: I, A morning In the court of
soon have eggs for sotting from Wliito Nono; II, Tho despair of the church;
Wyandotts, R. I. Reds and Indian Run-! Ill, tho decroo, "Worship tho Cult of
nor Ducks. tho Emperor;" IV, Martyrdom and
Havo Grabb's Shoe Cleaner in stock Victory. A groat lesson, in church hls
at $1.00. R. M. McFARLAND, I tory will bo taught by th'is sermon.
Phono Red 732. Rosidonco 2003 cast All not worshiping elsowhoro are In
Fiourth street. 14-2 vltcd to hear this address.
Miss Charlotte Templcton, .of theXpado many friends. Of him nothing
but what is good could be said, 'me
remains will bo taken to Creston, la.,
Sunday morning and tho funeral held
the following day.
John Hemard Murphy was born in
Carbondalo, Pa.. Juno 30th, 1851, and
resided there for a number of years,
later locatinig In Aurora, 111., and thlr-ty-llvo
years ago became a resident of
tiis ciety. In October. lSSfi, ho was
married to Miss Faniy Kenneally, of
Creston, Iowa, who survives him. To
tills union were borni three children,
Miss Loretta. ql thin city, and twin
boys who died in infancy. Other rela
tives are his brothers Joseph L. Mur
phy, of ths city. Frank Murphy, of Ar
lingtoni, Washington, and sister. Mrs.
H. I. Smith who resides here.
::o::
: :o: :-
Presbyterian Church
11 a. m., children's service. Music
by Red Cross clior and children's ser
mon. t '
7:30 p. m.. good music; pastor's
ing temperature; highest temperature , theme "Damaged Goods;" some lesson
yesterday 11, a year ago 31; lowest; thoughts suggested ny mis motion pic
l:tsf nlirht 5. a venr aco 10. ture.
Gottinaii's Hand-Made Cigar. 5c. 14-tf
Tho McDonald State Hank has re
ceived a large supply of circulars toll
ing of the best methods of testing corn
for seed as recommended by the Inter
national Harvester Co. In view of the
large amount ot soft corn tho past sea
son, it Is sniggested by experts that all
seed corn be tested. Tho circulars are
to be had by calling nt tho bank.
J, I. Show purchased tho southeast
quarter of section 20-32-14 Monday. G.
L. Mudd purchased tho balance ol the
section. Tills is known as the old Pax
ton ranch and the deal was,mndo in
Omaha Monday. This is one of tho best
sections in the valley, lying as it does
immediately tributary to Hershoy town
and is quite ii valuablo acquisition.
Here's hoping the boys success. Her
hey Tlms.
-::o::
I OR I IK NT
The 2201) acre .Mrs. .liable . Turple
Ranch, all ImiIIoiii land, within four
miles of North I'lnttc. ('(insists of linj.
nlinlin and cultiuitcd laud. All leiiced
and suhdhldcd.. I.hlng water. A
money maker In the hands of flic right
pari). Address,
IM1ATT A: GOODMAN, Xnis.
6
4
THE DOCTOR
before it becomes uorso and
bring us the prescription. If
it is light or If you wish to pre
i out It altogether, come to us in
full Confidence; Our stock con.
fains tested preparations for ex
ternal and Infernal use.
In view of (ho bad lventhei we
liaic laid in a stock of Chamois
Vests and various Sundries that
may como In handy very soon.
Hotter look them oyer NOW!
J. H. STONE
DRUGGIST
Mrs. John Heal and Mrs. Alfred Wlll
hltri, of Doniphan, arrived hero yester
day to make thqir home. Messrs. Heal
and Willliite recently purchased t Ho
McMichael barber shop.
::o::
Ituugalow for Sale
G Rooms, 3 blocks from court hous'!.
As I have decided to move on a tract
of land adjoining the city, I am placing
on sale my now heme on south Vine
street. Tills is a six room houso, tho
living room being 2(i feet by 13 feet,
Largo brick fire placo in end of liv
ing room. Double floors, tho top Imn,;
maple throughout tho house, both up
stairs and down. Half basement, di
vided with cement block partitions for
collar and coal bins. Flushed in birch
wood down stairs and whito enamel
upstairs. Full equipped bath room up
stairs, and closets in each bed room
Toilet and lavatory on first lioor. The
lot is a southeast corner lot with sldo-
walks'on both sides. Curling in front.
Yard well filled and a good stand of
grass. Good size barn which can bo
used for two cars, or car and other
purposes. Price $4,000.00 on good
terms. Inquire of
C. F. TEMPLE, Owner
KeeTocK
NEWfc THE
PERFECT LENS
MOUNTING
Your Glasses Can't Work
loose with our now moim-
0LDtinK-
C. S. CLINTON,
Registered Opetomtrist.
1 Look for tho sign with tho Die Ring'.
Little Pigs Need Sunshine
'Daioapl Goods'
Some tliouglils suggesaod
ly this photo play.
7,30 I
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, SUNDAY, MARCH Sth.
Hats of Distinction
Hats that are Different
YOU WILL FIND THEM
ON DISPLAY AT
THE HUB.
U. S. Farmers' Bulletin No. 438 says, "The
piggery must have (1) direct sunshine on floor of
every pen at farrowing time, (2) fresh air, (3)
warmth, (4) freedom from drafts, (5) dryness, and
(6) enough space for exercise.
Building Hog Houses Right
makes hog raising inor$ profitable. The notion that
anything is ood enough for hogs; is out of date. There
is n animal on the faiyn which requires better pro
tection from the cold nor for which a good bed is
more necessary. '
Calves and colts have good fur coats to protect
them from the cold, but a pig- lias almost nothing- be
tween his skin and the weather.
Come in. We'll help you with your planning. Now
is the time to get busy, too.
W. W.
Dr. Hess Poultry Pan-a-ce-a
makes poultry healthy; makes hens
lay; not a stimulant, but a tonic,
that tones up the dormant egg or
gans, brings hack the scratch and'
cackle, and compels each hen to
put hor share of eggs in the market
hasket.
It also contains internal antisep
tics that counteract disease; insures
a healthy, singing poultry (lock.
Costs but a trifle a penny's worth
enough for 30 hens per day. lj lbs. 25c; 5 lbs. 60c; 12
lbs. $1.25; 25-lb. $2.bU. Guaranteed by
The Rexall Drug Store, Phono 4
t
