If you wish Prosperity
What is Best for Maui
is Best for the News
Advertise in the News ;
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1916.
NUMBER 2
Haleakala Included
In National Park
New Bill Before Congress Takes In
21,150 Acres Of Maui Mountain
Top Congressmen Favor to Plan,
A fact of much interest and import
ance to Maul, though not generally
known, is that in H. D. 9525, now be
fore congress, Haleafcala is included
in the boundaries of the proposed
Hawaii national park, for the estab
lishment of which the measure would
provide. On February " the House
committee on public lands held a
hearing on the bill, at which time
Prof. Thomas A. Jaggar, Delegate
Kalanianaole, Judge Iiallou, and Sec
retary Desha spoke on behalf of the
project at much length. So far as is
known, the committee has not report
ed. The original bill did not
in elude Hale aka la,
but only the area on the Dig Island
including the craters of Kilauea and
Mauna Loa. The present bill, intro
duced on January 20, takes in prac
tically all of the upper slopes of
Haleakala, and includes an area of
21,150 acres. According to the report
of the hearing, the committee appear
ed to be very favorably disposed to
the idea, and indicatedthat all it
wanted to be assured on was the
cost of upkeep to the federal govern
ment.
Lindsay and Collins
WinIL A. Baldwin Cups
By winning three sets out of four,
A. W. Collins and D. C. Lindsay, on
Tuesday won the championship for
the Pala Tennis Club over the Puu
nene Athletic Club, represented by
William Walsh andj. B. Thomson.
Incidentally they carried home the
two handsome trophy cups offered
two years ago by Col. H. A. Baldwin
as this was the second time in suc
cession that they won over the Puu-
nenes.
The game was witnessed by a
large crowd at the Tuunene courts,
and was full of exciement. The
score was 63, 26, 63, 97.
. DEATH OF W. G, SAFFERY.
William G. Saffery, a native of
Maui, but for a number of years a
resident of Honokaa.Hawaii, died at
his home on Monday, February 21, af
ter an illness of some weeks. He was
63 years o aSe and Is survived by a
The deceased was b0rn in Ulupala-
wife and two children.
akua, Maui, on February 14, 1853
Saffery was the son of Capt. Edmund
Teddy Saffery, a sturdy British mari
ner who settled in Maui in the early
davs and married Waiki, the mother
of he deceased.
Saffery began as a cowboy on the
Ulupalakua ranch. Later he became
manager of the Haleakala ranch. In
1897, with his family, he settled in
Hamakua. In his late life he spent
much of his time farming Qn his home
stead in Kapulena.
PLAINTIFF WINS EJECTMENT
SUIT IN CIRCUIT COURT.
cupied most of Thursday in the sec
ond circuit court and was decided in
favor of the plaintiff. It will probably
be appealed to the supreme court.
Fred W. Milverton, of Honolulu, rep
resened the plaintiff, E. It. Bevins ap
pearing for the defendant. The prop
erty iu question was sold on foreclos
ure of mortgage about two years ago,
but the defendant is trying to show
that the sale was not legally or equab
ly made.
The trial of an ejectment suit o L-
Weinzheimer vs. D. K. Kahaulelio, oc-
Joe Medeir0s, of Moura & Company,
had his right arm painfully crushed
while testing an automobile engine,
No bones were broken but he will be
incapacitated for some days.
E. A. DGuthitt and C. B. Hall, of
Honolulu were visitors on Maui for
several days this week.
Mr. and Mrs. L. Weinzheimer, of
Lahaina, spent Thursday in Wailuku.
They were regisered at the Maui Ho
tel.
Papa's Objections
Didn't Count Here
Russian Girl Is Backed By Mother
And Succeeds in Marrying Filipino
of Her Choice.
When a girl wants to marry a man,
paternal favor doesn't have very
much weight, and particularly so
when the girl is backed by her moth
er. At least this was so in the case of
16 year old Bessie Kozlk, acomely
Russian girl of Keahua, who was de
termined to marry Arsenio Abellana,
a less comely Filipino, of Hamakua-
poko. When the girl and her parents
and her fiance appeared before
Marriage License Agent Geo. Cum
mings, on Wednesday, it -vas cleai
that the father was not pleased with
the match. He protested vigorously,
and offered the Filipino $200 if he
would leave the country without
his (Ibughter. The feirl, however, was
backed by her mother, who gave
the necessary consent, and the li
cense was issued in spite of Tapa
Kozik. The couple were later wed by
the Rev. L. C. Kaumeheiwa.
St. Patricks Tea To
Be Given Bj High School
St Patrick
The pupils of the Maui High SchQol
are arranging to give their annual tea
on Saturday Mar. 18. It is to be a
St. Patrick's" Tea and the program
will cGntain a number of Irish se
lections. Members of the freshman
class will give for a part of the pro
gram, a one act farce called" The
Practical Joker". There will also be
music by the High Scho0l orchestra
and singing by the Glee Club.besides
solos.
On account of the fact that in pre
vious years the Schnol building has
proved too small to accomodate the
attendance it has been decided to
give the tea this year at the Paia
Community House.
The sch0ol is divided Into Commit
tees for the affair as follows; PrQ
gram.seniors and juniors; Decoration,
sophmores;; Refreshment, freshmen;
Finance, the entire school.
The proceeds from the tea are to
be used to help defray the graduating
expenses of the reception which is
tQ be given to the graduating class in
June.
Militarism To Be Avoided
Now, it is not desirable that the
whole population be formed into a per
manent militia. Such a policy of de
fense would invite militarism. How
ever, if every able-bodied man would
spend a small part of his time fami
liarizing himself with the rudiments
of the science of war and training
himself in the effective use of the
more common weapons of modern
warfare , the defense of the nation
would be assured. Every citizen
should find time for such training and
should consider it his duty to be pre
pared.
So, in reviewing the duties of
citizen of the United States, we find
that a man must be loyal, must have
a fair education and must take
part in the work, the government and
the defense of the nation. But the
person who merely performs his pre
scribed duties, is following the path
of least resistance, and is no true citi
zen, for he has no real concern for his
country's well-being. The true Amer
lean, on the other hand, is unselfish
and is willing to sacrifice personal
ambition in the performance of any
act that involves the welfare of the
State.
Herein lies the difference between
the ordinary man and the true citizen,
which is not one of wealth, power,
influence or learning, so much as of
patriotism and an unselfish devotion
to one's country.
Sealed tenders have been called for
by the public works department for
the construction of about a mile of
new road in the Kulaha district
crossing the east Kulaha gulch,
concrete bridge is also called for,
The bids will be opened oa March 20
Scarcity Of Fruit
May Cause Planting
Prospect of Better Prices For Pine
apples Likely to Stimulate Opera
tions in Haiku District.
The shortage of this season's pine
apple pack, which it is estimated will
be about one fourth less than last
vear, and the prospect next year
and the year following will sec even
a greater falling off, has renewed the
hope of Maui growers that prices will
be materially improved. This pros
pect wilt probably stimulate planting
in he Haiku district to a very consid
erable extent.
It is expected that a meeting of the
homesteaders with the management
of the Haiku Fruit and racking Com
pany will be held within a few days,
at which time it is believed that the
growers will be given some better as
surance than they have had in the
past that they will get a fair price for
their product. Some form of a guar
antee that they will receive not less
than $15 per ton, will probably be ask-
by the farmers. The cannery at
present is buying the larger part of
its fruit, and it is understood was able
to make a snuill profit on this, al
though the growers lost heavily. The
disinclination of the growers to
plant much in the past year, however,
has caused the Haiku company to in
crease its own acreage by several
hundred acres. A hui of homesteaders
however, has recently planted about
acres, being financed in part in
this by the cannery.
May Put Mauna Kea
On Once a Week Run
Company Claims Business Does Not
Justify Present Service Hilo
People Patronize Big Boats.
It is reported on authority from
Honolulu, that the Inter-Island steam-
Mauna Kea, will probably soon be
put on a weekly schedule to Hilo in
stead of the semi-weekly one which
she has maintained for several years.
If this is done, the Saturday sailing
up, and return past Lahaina Monday
night will be cut out. Hilo people
are making a big protest, but the com
pany claims that the run is not a pro
fitable one, and that Hilo people are
given to patronizing the big vessels
when opportunity offers, which is
still further cutting into the business,
, ? i . ...
GOOD GISOWING WEATHER. ..
Good, heavy rains this week
in the Lahaina district, as well as on
the windward side of the island.prov
ed very timely and welcome. Plant
ing in the Kuiaha and Makawao dis
tricts had been considerably interfer
ed with by the dry weaher of the past
three weeks. The season generally
has been favorable, however, and the
corn and other crops already planted
are in very promising condition.
TWO GAMES OF POOR BALL,
.Two loose and uninteresting games
of ball were those played at the Wai
luku park last Sunday. The Chinese
were so late in arriving that but six
innings of the first game were played,
but in this brief time the score stood
15 to 5 in favor Df the Chinese and a
gainst the Waikapus. In the second
game the St. Anthony's defeated the
Asahis by a score of 6 to 2.
Next Sunday's game will be 1.
tween the Chinese and Saints, for the
first event, and the Waikapus and
Asahis will play second. A better
brand of ball is expected.
Sending Filipinos Io Coast.
According to the Honolulu rapers,
O. A. Steven, who recently conducted
a campaign to sell laud in California
to local Portuguese, now has a
scheme to send 3000 Filipino laborers
from Hawaii to the Imperial Valley,
California. By the last Great North
ern, it is said, 35 Filipinos departed
for the coast, presumably to spy out
the promised land for their fellow-
countrymen.
3rd Regiment Track
Meet A Big Success
Some Good Individual Scores Made
Capt. George Cumming's Company
Wins Honors Of Day.
The first, annual athletic meet
of the 3rd regiment, national guard
of Hawaii, which was held at the
Wailuku baseball park last Satur
day, was a most encouraging success
and aroused not only much enthus
iasm among the men of thevarious
companies, but also a great deal of
Interest among Maul folk generally.
The attendance was good, and the
results were most satisfactory to
both men and officers. Capt. Geo.
Cummings' company, with 34 points
to its credit, won the contest, Comp
any M taking second place with
27 points. The other companies
that made p0inta were Company H,
21; Machine Gun Company 16; Com
pany I, 12; and the Tuukolii Com
pany, 3.
A. Robinson, of Company M. made
the best individual score, totaling
25 points in all for his contingent.
L. Sterling of Company H, made 20
points.
Much credit fQr the success of the
meet is due to Capt. Chillingworth
athletic officer, who had the arrange
ment of the details of the day's e
vents. New Wireless Orperator
For Lahaina Station
B. E. Fenn, who for the past year
has been wireless operator at the
Lahaina station, was relieved on Wed
nesday by Charles Mulleltner, who
has been in charge of the Mutual
Company.s station at Wahiawa, Oahu
Mr. Fenn has left the service of the
Inrttl rnmnnnv tr tnlrx a nnuHinn In
Honolulu with the Pacific Commercial
Cable Company, and has already de
pared with his family. Mr. Mulleltner,
who is one of the oldest employes of
the Mutual company.has brought his
wife and daughter with him and has
g0no to housekeeping in the cottage
connected with the station.
Violinist To Play On Maul.
Maui is promised a real musical
treat in the concerts to be given
this evening at Lahaina, and on Sat
urday evening at the Wailuku Orph
eum by Mr. George Caspar, the Hun
garian violinist, assisted by Mrs.J. C.
Villiers as accompanist and Mr. H.
Washburn Baldwin, as vocal soloist.
The war in Europe, which upset his
plans, is primarily responsible for the
presence of Mr. Caspar in the Isl
ands, and it is claimed by Honolulu
musical critics that he is one of the
very finest performers on the violin
that has ever been heard In Hawaii
Several persons in Maui who have
heard Mr. Caspar play are confident
that his talents have not been over
rated.
Many Visit Haleakala.
Sixteen persons in all spent the
night in the Haleakala rest house
last Sunday night. It is the largest
crowd that the new house has yet
been called upon to accomodate,
and was made up of several different
parties. Manager Field, of the Maui
Hotel, wh0 is also a member of the
rest house committee, states that
there has been a constant stream of
visitors to the mountain for the past
week 0r more, many of them being
tourists.
MARRIED.
KELIINOI- LYONS In Pearl City,
Oahu, Feb. 20, 1916,Samuel Keliinoi
and Mrs. Rosalie Enos Lyons, Rev
William Kamau, pastor of the C0u
gregational Church of Ewa, officia
ting; witnesses E. C. Watson and
Ella Foster Hardy.
Mr. Jump of Los Angeles, says Ha
waii has the best fishing in the world
In Kobala, you can put a dollar'
worth of fish Inside your purse in the
same space the dollar occupied.
f Kabila Midget
BIG VERDUN BATTLE?
IS STILL UNDECIDED
u
French Have Succeeded In Holding Teuton Tide Back
But Another Fierce Assault Has Begun.---Submarines
Again Active.
HONOLULU, March3 Circuit judges are between the devil and
deep sea. Declare mills of Odd cannot grind without money for ex
penses. No person knows where that is coming from. Legislative re
lief improbable and Governor is uncertain.
An amended bill for the establishment of national parks in territory
has been received. Report of house committee favorable to passage
of measure. Reserve proposed is to include volcanoes of Kilauea, Hale
akala, and Mauna Loa. Bill sets aside great acreage as a preserve.
Text of letter written by Secretary Lane endorsing project, accompan
ies act.
WASHINGTON, March 3 Opposition to policy of president
doomed. Solons pledged to support of Wilson's stand. Gore resolution
warning citizens off armed ships already beaten. Gore says ilson
saidwar between America and Germany might have a grateful effect
of ending European strife by midsummer.
LONDON, March 3 Merchantmen to use guns only when at
tacked. British admiralty makes public formal instructions to skippers.
Five vessels sunk by Teuton deep sea raiders.
NEW YORK March 3 German raider still at large. Rumor
that mystery ship had been captured proved to be unfounded.
PARIS March 3 Germans begin another fierce drive against
Argonne front. Massed artillery at many places covers advance of
Teutons around Verdun, which are repulsed easily by French.
Losses of crown prince said to be enormous. From Woevre district
and other points along battle line come reports of more futile attempts
of Kaiser to destroy enemy.
LONDON March 3 Lord
ped by exemptions which various
Tie is disappointed in his campaign.
NEW YORKMarch 3 Floating mine sank british torpedo boat
destroyer. All officers and 0 members of crew perished.
LONDON. March 3 Elizabeth, queen mother of Roumania
known as Carmen Sylva, is dead.
Wrote poetry which charmed world.
TOKIO, March 3 Announced that British minister to Peking
will soon transfer to another post.
sh minister to Japan will be recalled,
him in office.
HONOLULU. March 2 Bond
.. . t
layor splan. v..ity executive to lay nnanciai pjooicius oeiuit- suim ia
rs in important message. Publicity proposed to let voters know facts,
f special session of legislature is called, it will be preceded by public
lcciingi. Estimate of bond issue from $5011,000 to $7S0,O00.
All iurv trials and grand jury
aralvzed until July by exhaustion of
ace jail if they aid financially. Suix-rvisors cannot assist courts m
excess of $14,500, the appropriation to cover periou ending junc ou.
Only an act of the legislature can help, says Attorney Carden. Super
visors are powerless.
BUENOS AIRES. March 2
wireless message was intercepted here which says British cruisers have
captured German sea raider, either the Moevc or the Roon. Prize tak-
n to Trinidad.
PARIS, March 2 130,000
halted. Press and public mystified
LON DON.March 2 Fort
destroyed according to German reports. Germans concentrating force
of 90,000 men at Busy, 16 miles east of Verdun.
WASHINGTON, March 2
upon travel issue. Challenges vote.
ha 1 be satecuarded. President told
will not consent to any compromise
vel at sea. Would have foreigners
that the country is not divided on
LONDON, March 2 German submarines busy. s vessels re
port
ted sunk. Three British smacks
stoft. Italian steamer Lhz sunk.
sunk. 18 of crew drowned. 11 rescued.
ROME, March 2 Italian government notifies the United States
that Italian merchant vessels will continue defensively armed.
HONOLULU, March 2 Negotiations under way for the pur
chase of Palmyra, is rumor. Chicago Girls' Club, represented by Miss
Marie Holmes would buy island to make an Adamless Eden. Girls
would establish home there.
Breckons' politics arouse opposition. Desire of Honolulu attorney
to be a republican national committeeman stirs strife.
Recuiting plot fades into nothing.
WASHINGTON, March 2 President Wilson wins in fight for
travel right on high seas. Takes firm stand on question, refusing to go
onwith negotiations until solons vote on resolution now pending. Re
fuses to accept note of confidence proffered. Congressmen opposed
to his policy run to cover when they find he isgoing to carry his point
with nation. President tells congrcssmenthat unless they stop making
moves which embarrass him he will stop negotiations with Germany.
SAN FRANCISCO, March 2 Funeral of late James C. Mc
Candless will be held in Oakland today. Mr. and Mrs. John A. Mc
Candless with his brother James and wife left for coast to attend the
funeral.
SYRACUSE, March 2 New York state democrats give Wilson
their support. Chairman in keynote speech denounced republican fis
cal policy as disastrous.
LONDON. March 2 Verdun tells British economy only can
win conflict. Minister of empire inaugurates campaign to induce peo
ple to conserve resources for great economic crisis sure to come.
Situation along west front continues quiet while Germans and the
French are getting ready for another titanic struggle. British extend
line and big guns belch.
WASHINGTON, March2 Cruiser Tennessee will carry Amer
ican delegation of international high pan-American commission to
(Continued on Page Five.)
Derby declares recruiting handicap
classes of working men may secure.
She was loved all over the world.
Rumored Ambassador Green, Bru
and China minister will succeed
issue for city hall and roads is
- -1 II u...f..
forced to halt. Territorial courts
funds on hand. Court official
Reported from Montevideo that
Germans lost at Verdun. Battle now
at cessation of lighting there.
Zaux, on west front, bombarded and
President Wilson reiterates stand
Insists that American travel at ea
chairman ot 1 louse committee ne
on subject of armed ships and tra
understand, by vote ot congress,
this point.
wrecked. Crews landed at Lowe
Russian steamer Alexander ucntzer
