VOL. 11, No. 41, SEMI-WEEKLY.
t THIS COUNTRY UNITED't
V Washington,
\ 'T. ? -j . .? ,, f lis described as
The President (alls for "Show!-, ,
Down" in Congress on ROso-,1 ,ood Prevent
li?4 i/inu Worninir A mnri/totic nlished hv the
tee, asking him to provide par
liamentary means for bringing MAN TRIES T
tfie agitation out into the open THEN TAKE^
on the floor of the House for _
full discussion and a vote. La- R. Lee Johns
^N?*er he summoned Senator Stone County, Cor
and Representative Flood, chair- Fit of Desp<
men of the foreign affairs com- Camden, Ma
mittees, and Senator Kern, ma- Johnson, a wh
jority leader in the Senate, forty-five yeai
for a conference at the White thune, this cou
House to-morrow morning, at ent mood, kill
which he will request that one after having t
the various pending resolu- with an axe.
tions be acted upon in both hous- report, a neig
Ies. Johnson horde
Administration leaders, work- pressed his gra
ing steadily for the last week iy arrival, stat
strengthening their lines and that he had ii
counting.on the support of the ishing his sha
Republicans, now are so sure of but that he v
their position that they plan to time during tl
end all agitation with a vote of tion was paid
confidence in the President. the day the c
The President's letter to Mr. on various err
Pou, the signal that the Adminis- secured a she!
tration was ready to give Ger- barrel shotgui
Imany a demonstation of the uni-|rear of his hoi
tyy follows: ;an axe handle
The Pre*l<k?nt'H ii?tt?r. Johnson went
"My Dear Mr. Pou: Inasmuch us j the kitchen, w
I learn that Mr, Henry, the chairman | paring dinner,
of the committee on iules( is abseut head with the
in Texas, I take the liberty of call- turned the gur
Ing your attention, as ranking mem- jjig the back (
ber of the committee, to a matter off. dying alm<
of grave concern to the country ; When the 1)(
which can, I believe, be handled, one shoe had 1
under the ruleH of the House, only jt is supposed
by that committee. ed the gun by
"The report that there are dtvid- i ggr with his tc
ed counsels in Congress in regard I eye witnesses 1
to the foreign policy of the Govern- I
ment Is being made industrious use, TILLMAN (]
of in foreign Capitals, i believe tliatj ^
report to be false, but so long as it
Is anywhere credited it cannot fall I Washington
to do the greatest harm and expose j tor Tillman to
the country to the most serious risks. ,atc that it she
I, thorelore, feel justified in asking j ry in expediti
bat your committee will, permit n?< legislation and
to urge an early vote upon the reso- legislative pre
( hit ions with regard to travel on j be Completed a
farmed merchantmen which have re-jol progress, Ixi
Tvntiy hfft-n so much talked about,;gave notice th
in order ffrtrt?U^ere may be nfford-j to take up ail
ed an immediate opportunity fo? the bill to prot
full public discussion and action upon ment armor pi
them, and all doubts and conjectures Shields water-]
-i
may be gwept away and our loroi'-rn puseu i>i.
relations once more cleared of dam- "When the
uitiK misunderstandings. it can do busin
"The matter is of so grave impor-. with as much
tance, and lies so clearly within the legislative bofl
field of executive initiative, that I j he said, "but il
venture to hope that your committee the game of '
will not think that I ant taking tin- with more ski
warranted liberty in making this aug- J body in the w<
geatlon as to the business of the j I have known C
House, and I very earnestly com- i "The people
ntend it to their immediate consid-j pass laws and
eratiou. whole country
"Cordially ajpl sincerely yours, lieved faithful
"Woodrow Wilson." vice was the In
Sneaker Clark, Majority Lead-, tinued here."
er Kitchin, Representative Flood
and Representative Foster, of Order for (
Illinois, conferred at the <*api-| Spartanburg'
tol to-night and agreed to urge I'homas A. Sei
itiat the rules committee takajan order requi
no steps pending action by the tarings Coin pa
foreitm affairs committee. nnd;why receiver
that the foreign affairs commit pointed, the or
iable before Ji
(Continued "it Page Four.) March 1.
/gngy? I ,i m
* U UUUCi TT m nuivi ivunn * ~ %/
Off Armed Ships. "shallow, grad
canals" to conn
WRITES ACTING HE \D a river to alloi
OF RULES COMMITTEE flow of water a
: explained to th
Administration Leaders Confi- tee on flood cor
dent Each Body Will Give Vote inventor, John
of Confidence in Chief Execu- Springs, Ohio,
tive. ?f William Jen
The commitl
Washington, Feb. 29?Presi- turned from an
dent Wilson decided to-day that flood district ii
he cannot proceed with the Ger- v^!'ey* -T?~c
tha tiraf At 11 a
man submarine negotiations jject.* "with the
while dissension in Congress models, Mr. Br\
weakens his position before the his plans are <
V world, so he called for a "show river.
down" on the pending proposals Under Mr. I
to warn Americans off merchant nfa s !){ masoni
, . - . . . ?. structed across
snips of the American belhger- bends of river:
ents armed for defense. the canal woul
Making clear that he consid- with the norm
ers the President, and not Con- the river a
gress, charged with the conduct Waters
of foreign relations of the Uni- away nearly f
ted States, he wrote a letter to than through
Representative Pou, acting chair- nel. The natu
man of the House rules commit- channel would
\
LANCASTER, S. C. MARCH <
I GERMANS AGAIN MS
ta.^ for flTTfi?K VPRflllN
- . , .... niinui\ vi.nuuil
March 1.?What
a new method of _ /x,, ~ 7" .
. | Renew Offensive Against Strong Milita
n to bo accom- h((|(| wuh Severa| Kjerce ^ Una
construction of tracks. t Hill
luated diversion xsm
ect the bends in CHECKER WITH LOSS, HE A
iv a straightway ACCORDING TO PARIS __
it flood time was I Measi
e house commit- Teutonic Forces Said to Have Ne>
ltrol today by its Suffered Heavily in New Drive tee
Bryan of Yellow British Regain Lost Ground
a second cousin Ypres-Comines Canal. No _
inings Bryan. ' Changes Elsewhere. decisi<
Dee recently re- _ ; , House
inspection of the The Germans havc resumed to.daJ
i Misisssippi riv- their offensive around Verdun creas(
lay's hearing was with the French strongly oppos- foe re]
eries on the sub. ing it. While over most of the House
i use of maps and front, from the east of the Meuse figure
an explained that i to the Woevre region, the Ger-'thoriz
designed for any I man big guns have been active, I niy c,
around Dou Aumont the Xeu-1 tionul
Aryan's plans ca- tons launch'ei several very vio- i volun
ry would he con lent infi attacks. These strenj
peninsulas at the the French office eleclares, fyp m<
3 T'V.r, infoUo ,1^.,,., U.. U.? L'
a. int illume <n ?cic |>ut lumn vy tut: r teiicii Jt
d he on the level troops, whose fire decimated the strenj
tal surface water enemy ranks. Le Monte Horn- troop
nd at flood time me, the Cote du Poivre and Dou|a mii
d be diverted and Aumont sector particularly hdve|Natio
would be carried suffered heavy bombardments. | j.nci 1
ifty times faster Northeast of St. Mihiel uhe vo]Un
the natural chan- French guns have been working i()f th
iral crooked river effectively against the Germjan I idea,
be maintained, positions. In Alsace, in the he- ooo i
gion of Seppois, a heavy artjil- lattei
lery duel has been in progress.
'O KILL WIFE, | Dispatches from both Berlin Th<
1 HIS OWN LIFE J and Paris point to the difficul- reorg
ties of a farther advance in this techn
>on, of Kershaw region. The French positions, zes t
limits Suicide in Paris points out, stretch along offict
indent*v. the heights from which the mobil
ireh i.?R . Lee ground drops abruptly to the imrni
lite man of about Woevre plain with its moist clay vides
rs of age, of Be- soil, across which the transport mate
nty, in a despond- of the heaviest of the German prefe
ed himself to-day artillery, on ground away from in w
issaulted his wife the high roads, is held to be al- dangi
According to the most impossible, while attacking a!ty
hbor came to the troops would have to deploy in \V1
and Johnson ex- the open under the fire of the of tl
ititude at his time-, French guns on the heights. lrtt 14
;ing, it is claimed, Berlin commentators, howev- befoi
atended upon fin- er, advance the view that the maxi
ve to end his life, Teutons previously have shown 170,0
rould end it some that similar disadvantageous thori
le day. No atten- conditions could be successfully 1 force
to this. Later in met, the storming of the heights corps
hildren were sent just to the south by the Ger- troop
ands and Johnson mans in 1914 when St. Mihiel M;
1 from his single- was captured being pointed to All
i. Going to the in this connection. comn
lse, he cut part of I From Dutch sources come re-; do so
i off and as Mrs. 'ports that the German drive is|they
to the yard from!to be resumed from the north-iof tt
here she was pre- east, 90,000 men having beenjthey
struck her in the concentrated near Buzy, behind j Th
axe. He then Fort Vaux. which is said to have tee e
i on himself, blow- been destroyed by the German its a
if his head partly heavy mortars. is po
ist instantly. Estimates of the German loss, oarer
Miy was nicovereu tes in tne onensive are running Presi
been removed and!high in entente quarters, one befor
Johnson discharg- from Paris placing them at be- Satin
r pulling the trig-'tween 125,000 and 130,000. All pedit
>e. There were iK) I accounts from German sources, readj
to the affair. however, have declared that their Th
casualties were surprisingly only
IN PREPARED- small. emm
iKSS The British along the Ynre*- acid,
.Comines canal have reversed the out I
, March 1.?Sena-'German victory of February 1 1 meas
-day told the Sen-jby retaking the 800 yards of
mid be less dilato-(trenches which the Teutons cap- MBS
ng preparedness jtured at that time. The Gerdeclared
that the man mine galleries in the trench>gram
?ou!d not es were destroyed and four offi i;inci
,t the present /"ate jeers and 170 men were captured. \f
iiore October. He In addition French guns have de. pu
at he would move stroyed a German work in the
d press to a vote region of Beuvraignes, which ch
ride for a Govern- lies between the Somme and Oise Meal,
ant as soon as the rivers. ter c
power bill was dis- i ntl
Mapning Signs Anti-Compact mom
Senate wants to Bill. north
ess as rapidly and deatl
i celerity as any Columbia, March 2.?Govern- final*
ly in the world," or Manning this afternoon sign- #radi
t also can practice ed the "anti-compact" bill driv- ing a
how not to do it*; ing the Southeastern Associa- dred.
II than any other tion out of South Carolina in til M
3rld?at least any "the brokerage" measure assess ]02 >
>f or read about. ing a yearly license and percentsent
us here to age on alj premiums.on all non- Laur*
legislate for the resident insurance companies.
; and I always be- In a statement issued when he La
and efficient ser ' signed the bill Governor Man- Laur
hi way 10 no con n;ng sulci he considered it his has I
duty to approve the measures, a eh?
and that there was evidently the n
hick Springs. something the matter with in the <
, Feb. 26-r-Judg" auranee rates in the Stato and act o
use to-day signed that the ,fanti-compact" bill will 23, 1
ring the Chick j^ve open competition. At ajof I
my to show cause meeting recently held in New year*
should not be an- York certain insur'mv co ">a- genei
der being return- n'es decided to withdraw from . hldge
H. P. Rice the State should the anti-corn- j tie <11
pact bill become a law. the c
^ yC- > i ana
1916.
; REGULAR ARMY
LIMIT AT laOOOi^rr-W?
' Petrograd, via Londo
1.?The budget, present
r> Committee of House Duma yesterday, show*
tnimous in Agreeing on dinary estimated reven
for Increase. 022,049,318 rubles, an t
CE STRENGTH 700,000 rubles?11"the
ire Before House Early . exE*:"!\L!r?_?v CS,
;t Week?Senate Commit-> ? T ^ 1 ^ *u* ?
Acts To-day. ^eluded in the but
stitute only part of the
shington, March 2.?Final penses and the war
[>n was rendered by theI n?t included ir
.... ... , , | get, may exceed the ore
' mil'tary committee late *clK,iture tw0 or thre
r upon its bill for the in. The most important dc
i of the army, and it will the estimated revenue
ported unanimously to the from that of alcoholic
! early next week. In round which figured only 9,0(
:s, the measure would au- bles as compared with
;e the formation of an ar- 000 in 1914. With 1
:>mposed of regulars. Na ; classed as extraordina
I guardsmen and federal diture the budget sho\
teers with a total peace expenditure of 3,588,11
?th of approximately 700.- bles, the excess expend
in. revenue being 377,107,
provides for a maximum1 The extraordinary
gth of 170,000 fighting due to the war amoun
s for the regular army, for 000.000.000 rubles in
nimum of 425,000 for the i are expected to read
nal Guard within five years 000,000 in 1916 if the
'or organisation of federal the entire year. The
teers through an extension pense, together with t
e iiimmer training camp deficit, must t>e eo
It is estimated that 100,-! means of credit opevat
nen can be enrolled in the j
force. I "CARMEN SYLVA'
Industrial Reserves. > ;?
i bill retains provisions for Queen Mother Elizabet
;anization of industrial and | mania Passes at Adva
lical reserves and authori-1 London. March 2,?i
he creation of a board ot | est dispatch received b
;rs to control an industrial i via Amsterdam, says
lization in time of war cr Queen Mother Elizabel
nence of war. It also pro- mania (Carmen Sylva]
that manufacturers of war i morning,
rials must give immed'ate; The pen name "Ca
rence to Government orders va." bv which the Que
ar time, or when there is Elizabeth of Roumania
er of war, under heavy pen- widely known, was cho
for failure tj do so. in expression of her
lile the minimum strength song and the woods,
le regular army remained one of the most chai
10,000, a change was made ures in the courts o
e the final vote to fix the and practically the 01
mum of fighting troops at recent generations to
00, bringing the total au- as a poetess,
zed strength of the regular In her own words sh(
, including the hospital "far from a throne,"
, and other non-combatant she was a Princess of
is, to 190,000. of the many tiny pri
ay Support Amendments. with which Germany
:hough all members of the her youth was that o
littee will sign the bill, they nary robu,st country \
under the reservation that learned to cook and se>
may support upon the floor romped in the open
ie House any amendment companions at the villf
desire. She was born Decembe
e Senate military commit- and in her childhood s
xpects to vote finally upon predilection for the po
rmy bill to-morrow; and it I cies that had such an
ssible the first of the pre.! on her later life. She
Iness measures urged by innumerable fairy sto
dent Wilson will be placed with some of he r owr
e hoth houses of Congress t ion added, she elelig
relay. Arrangements to ex- playmates with her fa
e their consideration al- home she received Spa
j have been made. ing. and with a fathei
e House committee inserted an invalid for life, and
general provision for a Gov- who was incurably ill.
ent plant to make nitric rienced many sorrows
leaving details to be worked ships,
ater in an appropriation
lire. l)cs('HAMPS TO
JANE NEAL DIES Will Be One of the I
AT VERY GREAT AGE Contestants for Go
Columbia. March
(stock Woman Passes Away ha nips ot (oh
ter Century Mark is Passed, nounccd yesterday th
neral To-day. h<> n candidate for
the approaching Dome
ester, March 2.?Mrs. Jane rnaries.
, the oldest person in Ches- Mr. r>esC hamps is a
ounty and one of the oldest South Carolina, a lari
le State, passed away this 'ecturcr and author,
ling at her home on the extended acquaintance
lern outskirts of Blackstock, State, having resided
1 coining as the natural ent times in his life in
2 to length of years and Carolina counties. I c
nal breakdown and not be- few years he has beer
surprise to friends and kin- this city. Mr. DesChai
Had Mrs. Neal lived un- posed to factionalism
av 4 ^he would have been licves that Democrats
rears of gae. orcise the riirht of in
thinking, as his platfor
ens Is Now Without Charter ciples indicates.
urens. Mar. 2.?The city of Return True Bill Auaii
ens as a municipality, it Abbeville. March 1 ?
>een discovered, is without' now in the court of gc
irter. An investigation of sions here today retur
not i.rv ! /> i rnn 1 ti 4 f V* .. t l.?ll ?* *
' vtvt m\ i?ir i nti mm i in hi tut" I
harter granted by special Be: rd -harcinc: hirri >
f the legislature December in?d libel. The war
890. incorporating the city sworn out by J. P. Gos mens
or a period of 25.dent of the Williamsl
? has expired, and so far no nrlls, and yrew out of
ral act has been'found iv? cation of certain a
. x ? ha'o would automa- Beard's paper regei
y continue and keep in force Calhoun Fr:ls cottOT
barter of 1890. which Gossett is the ]
%
?:v
[M,
s
$1.50 A YEAR.
:vkn?,-SUPPORT WILSON
FOR_RE-ElECTION
*(\ !r or' ^ew Democrats Hold Harue
of '- inonious Convention at Syra,.
i cuse.
jstimated
>f 3,232,. FULL ENDORSEMENT
excess
revenue Administration Commended for
le expen- All Its Policy?Elihu Root
Iget, con- Sternly Rebuked.
total ex
expense. Syracuse, N. Y., March 1.?In
i the bud- a keynote speech Democrats of
linary ex-1 New York State assembled in
;e times, informal convention to-night,
screase in (ratified the administration of
occurred I President Wil sinn anr) fn/<L* <.+(mci
? , V ?? ItllU VWI\
: drinks, to bring about his re-election.
)0,000 ru . Harmony marked the conven(>89.000.-1
tions deliberations, every prodie
items iposal being adopted unanimousry
expen- ly.
vs a total The following delegates-at>(>,510
ru- large to the National Democraiture
over tic Convention at St. Louis were
192. recommended for the support of
expenses the party voters at the Spring
ited to 8,- primaries:
1915 and United States Senator James
i 11,000,- O'Gorman, William Church Os_
war lasts jborn, chairman of the Democralatter
ex- tic State Committee; George J.
he budget Meyer of Buffalo, a Germanvered
by j American supporter of the Presioiis.
ident, and Samuel Untermyer,
a New York attorney.
' DEAD The convention also adopter?
a resolution recommending th<|
h, ol Rou- re-election of Norman E. Maol<
need Age. 0f Buffalo, as Democratic Na*
\ Buchar- tional Committeeman,
y Reuter's The delegates to the National
that the Convention which will comprise
th of Rou- New York's "big four" were unI
died this pledged but were nominated with
the understanding that they are
rmen Syl- to work for a second term for
en Mother Mr. Wilson.
l was most The keynote speech delivered
sen by her by former Governor Martin H.
love for | Glynn as permanent chairman.
QUo \imis ' qvnnoorl ?v?t?oL 1 r * *
kJUC n Cl.l cuvu.-ltu HUH II CI11I1UH1HMII1, in "N- '-^r/
Tning fig-{addition to commending the ac- v
>f Europe, tions of Mr. Wilson during his:
ily one of administration, it replied directgain
fame ly to the criticisms of the President
and his foreign policies
e was born made by former Senator Elihu
for altho Root at the recent Republican
Wied, one State convention in New York,
ncipalities The Federal reserve act, the
abounded, Underwood tariff, foreign aff
an ordi- fairs and preparedness were all
girl, who dwelt upon by the former Govx
and who ernor.
with her True to Its Trust.
ige school. "Four years ago," he said*
?r 29, 1K43 "this Nation committed its card
he showed and welfare to the Democratic
etical fan- party and the Democratic oarty
influence Has been true to its trust. It has
; absorbed preserved peace, observed internes
and, national law and followed the
i imagina- traditions of the fathers of the
hted her country."
ncies. At After reviewing the legislartan
train- tion enacted during the Demo,
r who was cratic control of Congress Mr.
a brother Glynn replied to Mr. Root's refshe
expe- erence to the Federal reserve act,
and hard- and charged that Mr. Root a*
Senator opposed the passage of
me measure. me legislative
RUN. act. he said, saved the country
from a panic when the European
)emocratic war broke out, enabled the finanvernor.
rial officers to meet the demands
1.?James made upon American business
imbia, an- and financial interests, am!
at he will saved them from a repetition of
H'ernor in the panic of 1907. which the
?cratic pri- speaker characterized as a "painful
experience" that would all
native of ways be an "indictment of tho
mer and a Republican party,"
He has an Denying that Mr. Root was
? in the "the keeper of National honor,"
at differ- Glvhn added:
five South "For years Mr. Root has boert
>r the last the star performer at peace coni
living in t'erences, and yet he condemns
ups is op President Wilson for maintainand
be- jnpr peace,
should ex- "For years Mr. Root has been
dependent acclaimed an apostle of peace
m of prin an(j jn 1912 was awarded the Nobel
prize for the promotion of
? peace, but now he sallies forth
nd Beard. as a drum and trumpet statesThe
grand nian."
meral ses. jn his foreign policy the Presned
a true ident, Mr. Glynn said, was fol1st.
W. P. lowing the example ol Washingvith
erim- pon .|<,hn Adams, Jefferson, Linrant
was (lf)]n and Grant.
iett, presi- "fhe President," he declared,
-on cotton "ha* only shaken his finger,
the pul?l' when he has to shake his fist the
.tides in world will find it mailed,
xling the <.fhe efforts of politicians-.
1 mill tof ?
)resident. irontin?<-<l on Pare
