THE WEATHEjfc ORECAIT,
Partly cloudy to-dayfjPjorrowl
not much chMgUtftfljJpature.
Highest temperature wterdt-jK; lowest, a?.
tm.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
Detailed weather, mj'll and MMLMMrte on page 13.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 185.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1916. Co;iifntf, I0t. by the Bun PHMlno and PubUtMna Astoilallon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
GERMANS LOSE
HEAVILY IN NEW
VERDUN DRIVE
Troops Attack From North,
but Arc Cut to Pieces
by French (inns.
POINTARE BEAR Kit OF
THANKS TO THE ARMY
President Goes to Fortress
to Congratulate .1 off re.
on Cheek to Foe.
Specml Cable )tple In Tiir n
T.onpov. March 2. -Thr Herman at
tack on Vordiiu, In which tin rr li.nl been
a lull for two (In., was resumed last (
night .with n lively hut futile assault
pRnln.il Freshen, on thr Wocvro plain,
nntl tn-lay the Germans returned to
their lrivo against the fortress from
the iiortli.
Nrlthrr thr driving power nor thr
wide scope of thr Httacl(! of hist week
wan manifest In llir renewal of oiiern-
tlonn and thr Grrinan effort, to make , ,i ,0 h,'a ul. Hnould
further headway were without ellccenn. jir murder." l'olU-o Chlrf Craw ford told
new centre of activity In this reRlonlthr chlldV father.
hnn developed to thr wet of the Muie,
nnout l. Jlort Homme, on the Cote dr
I'Olr. N-tneeii Malancourt and the loop
of the Meunr. So far there lum liren no
Infantry attack In thin quarter, but the
bombardment has been exceedingly vio
lent. 1'olncarr at Verdun.
rrcildcnt Tolnrare haH.Junt returned
from tho French army headquarters nt
Wnliin. to which he went on February
'JO. Ilr presided over a meeting of the
CmMimI, which unnulinouhly voted to
iniuent tSen. Joffre to convey the Oov
erniiieiit's ronKratulatlona to the troops
for their heroic courage In repelling the
flrnt flinch of thr Verdun attack.
ri evident I'olncare while at headquar
ter tihkrd thr rnmmandera to convey
hi tho troopN thr unrmeiit thankn of
Framr I'arllament In very ontlmlntlc
ot ei thr outcome- of tlie MghtlnR in view .
nt In. 1 11 1 'i 1 1 .. ,1 Infnmial nn .nn.tm,,. I
" " "
i.icat.d to thr Deputies by the Premier.
Thr r-iioAal of the German assault
on the Kieiich lines about Douaumont
lo-n.iy a preceded by ii lavish use or i
i ur or' lurry, .-irverai inianiiy anacKS
urie made but all were thrown back
h Hie I'renrh Ore. wnich caused heavy
Io.e In the mnkn of the attacking
parlies. The bombardment by the Ger
man uitlllery, which extended over the
whole f i iint in this sector, whs of eiipe
rial violence on thr Cote du Polvre.
northeast of Ilras. Kverywhere the
Trench guns replied with energ., de
"
m'"i ,
voting special attention to the lines
communication behind the Germ
front.
Vluneullen Rombnrdrd.
Si'Uthe.ist of the Verdun sector. Irench
Ion,: raiisr guns bombarded the rail-
naj station at Vlcneulle.- In thr St 'could not have escaped Injury by th- tnr new submarine warraie nepenrtn on
Mlhlel salient. Mal ting to tlrw. netting I explosion. . wlmt thrso nrdrrn show, unless meantime
flro to ievcr.il trains and destroying ai The fire was discovered by thr night' a ship is Hunk without warning with
locomotive. Vlgueulleh-len-llattonrhatel editor and a moment later John It. Americans on boanl, the Impression Is
,s on the railway between Fresnes and Hnthnm, editor In chief, eamo through growing that the Department hoe about
Commerce and in a highway centre c the connecting door as thr bomb rx- reached a point where It In prepared to
Importance to the Germans. ' ploded. He was covered with dirt and ""M l't the orders do not Justify Oer-
The exact llgurun of the French losea i a muddy substance, but escaped Injury. 1 many's course in attacking armed mer
I'l the Verdun lighting up to date have The police decided the tlm was started i chantmen without warning,
been glwn bv Gen. Galtleiit to the Com-i by design and found there had been According to advance reports receh-ed
nltter of Military Affairs of the Cham- i ampin opportunity to plant an Incendiary '""re concerning these orders, the mer
Per of Deputies. Tho figure were not 'bomb, as thr corridor of tlio Journal chantmen are not directed to go out
made public, but the statement Is made '
hat they were not high.
ccordlng to estimates given bv the 1
Pellt 1'itrinlrn, the Germans have lont
between 123,00 and 130.(100 men In this
Ashling, roughly one-fourth of tho forces
ilsed
T' o latest word received In Paris re
udnllnfT the HrandenburR" troops at Dou-
.luiiium nan that on Wednesday thevl
them had been defeated.
Wounded Frenchmen rrcognlie the
valor of the i.erman Infantry, which
-iMie.i.d ,o wnnin thirty .yards of the
French trenches, although thc.v knew
certainly that they were marching to
d Mth, Then at the command they
i-haiged.
Descilblug such a charge a wounded
.Ulcer said :
Wo awaited their attack. Our ma
ililno guns mownl down the first ranks,
then rang out the order, 'Fix bayonets,
ehaige," nnd our men went out to meet
tCie,,,, Terrible, hand to hand fighting
followed In tho darkness, which w;ui
pierced only hero and there by search,
light or Hare, There were some tragic
nilMtiiilerHtandlngH. We found a Prus
sian non-commissioned officer with a
German bajonet In his chest. One com
pany of th enemy had c.hanred another
action, which was comlnff to Us sup
port '
The .lntit (oramnnliiae.
The French night communique says;
In Helglum a destructive fire was
directed by our artillery on the Oer
rnan organizations to the cast of
6leenstraete.
lletwcen the Somme and the Oiso
n enemy work was destroyed by our
batteries In tho region of Beau
Vialgnes. Ill Chanumgne n German aeroplane,
cannonaded by our batteries near
Sulpiies. fell n llatnes within the
enemy lines,
In the Argonne we carried out a
eoriocntmtfd lire to the north of La
Il.-ir.ure and on the Bols de Cheppy.
In the region north of Verdun nnd
In the Woevre the nrtlvlty of the
enemy nrtlTlery, which had decreased
a llttlo In tho pteeedlng days, re
vived considerably in the coutse of the
day on the whole front, directed es
pecially against 1, Mnrt Homme, the
Cole du Polvre and tho region of
Douaumont, At the Ian named point
tho bombardment was followed by
kevinil Infantry attacks of extreme
"jiilcnce. ThlH serleH of attacks was
tlnnwii back by our troops, whose (Ire
ilrclin.ilt-il tho enemy ranks. Our bat
Wrli't milled everywhere eucigf llcally
to tho boiiibardiiieiit anu munouaded
tn.i iiilvcrsary'n roads of communica
tion. Northeast of SI Mlhlel our long
riiiigo guns bomliaiiled the. railway
. atiuii at Vlgneiillea, According o tin;
CoiitliM'cd on 7 Mul I'nijr,
I
VON MACKENSEN AT VERDUN.
Ntnckhnltn llrara Ilnlkan Vlclnr
Command the German.
Special Valile lirimlrli In Tun St
Corr.MiAiiKN, via laiiidon, M.uch 2. - ,
Tin- tnllltary writer nf tlio fvrmlni
llnfiblnit of Stockholm san Hint Field
Marshal von Miirkcnt.ru, who Inl the r
Germans In thr nurrrsnlut Onlhiati cam
paign and commanded In tlio H.ilknn
campaign, planned thf attack mi Vcr
luii. Ilr lit now commanding thrir.
OEHMAN BANKS SHOW PROFITS.
Increased Dividend, Our of l Per
Cent.. Are Annnancrd.
fpeelnl Cnhle Pttpttch fo Tnr Sis '
13NPON. March 2, Thr Dull" .Mall I
slate that In view of thr Irrcspnnsl-'
Mr news rrrrlvril from ncntral conn-1
trie regarding tlio plight of thr tier-I
man ImnkiiiK world It In Intrrrstlng to
note that thr nnminl rrnortn of onr of
' the largest Hrtlln baiikn and onr of tho '
most Important proUnclal NinU an-;
The Iterlliicr llahdrlsgrsellsrhnfl w I
msirioute 11 I. per lent, dividend Instead ,
of ." per cent.. Its gross prollts having i
been correspondingly Inrgr. Tim liar-'
uici imiiKvrri'in m i iihticmi--Mill inr l
will dlMrlbutr a r.t,. prr rent. .IIM.
an coniparrd ulth ,' rr rrnt. oi.llnarlly. I
WANT DEFORMED BABY KILLED
t'otiplr Ilr I'ollrr In Put Infnnl
llnuahtrr tn Drnth.
Im;h .Moines. In.. March nnnt
you to kill my defm-unil h.ihy. Thr
dorlors won't, and It'n wnmi to let It
ll .......... ... T . , ..
live, wan thr rniiient .made of thr
city poller linliiy Uy Charlen rr
land. Dorothy, thr nubnormal child. In
2 llionthn old Itn Jawn do not con- .
mvt properly and the mouth callv In
unnaturally dlntriided.
mi-. 11.- .11 1...1
.Mm. Ircrland. thr mnthrr, ai;rrei
with Iter husband that thr child MmuM
tie put to death In a palnles-n way f'lty
I'hynlrlan ('lift will determltir what Is
to be done with thr baby.
BOMB FIRES OFFICE OF
PROVIDENCE 'JOURNAL
I
Explosion Follows Discovery '
of K1h.c in Mnniigiu?
Editor's Uoont.
T'RoWOENcr.. ft. I.. March 2. An ill-1
BUWl.fu attempt wan made shortly ,
. . . ... ... ........ ... .., . I . -
' nner ll eiocn lli-IIISIll- 1" univ , nip
Providence JoiiruoJ oilier. A l)ib of
j ,omf nature was made use of, but It wan
Ulthor not powerful enough or went
wrong before statrlng what liromlsed to
,. ...... II.....
l n irnuun iiu.t.-. i
The tire was started In n file nf new-1
paiiers In thr other of the inaniu-lng rdl-
u'i,.i, .iiw,...ver..,i ii unit ni.-iil,. but
Might headway, but in t ic net moment oontcntloiw.. . stlltonient of tllf I'roslili'lU'n li'inillki 1
there came a sharp expliMl.m. which Thr State Drpartment rxprcts to re- Wh ,mt ,, Sclllltur soi-mod tn run.
threw the bound files In every direction reive within the next day or so tlio ap. Provlilmn inl
and tilled the mom with a dense and peiidlces to the Gerncin submarine decla- I'" ' ,llf' I roslili'llt wit
ebokinir smoke. Thr fire stire.ui rapidly, ration which Ambassador Gerard for- becoming tM'lllgerotlt nnil whs Incllllt'il
but the Intensity of the ftnmes started
the automatic sprinkler service, holding
the blaze In check until the arrival of
tin. ilrr denartmeut. In half an hour.
the trouble wan over, and the damaKC men armed for defeme to tire on sub
i orobablv In not more than J2.0nn. i marlnrn on sight.
The managing editor's room had been
unoccupied for two hours, otherwise be
llulldlng are open to the public evenings.
While there have been numerous reports
that the newspaper office wan In danger
attack because of the Jon null's rr-
pealed exposes of alleged German In
trigue, they had not te-cn taken seri
ously. MANY WIVES, MANY RUBLES.
Allowance for Moslems.
1'ktboorad, .Mutch 2. The llusslan
oovermmcnt has decided to pay a
m'0nthly separation allowance, to each
of the wives of Mohammedan soldiers.
... .v. i.. . i ... j .
whether all the wives should receive
allowances or only the favorite The
final decision that an allowance shall be
paid to each wife will add considerably
to the army budget.
116 RIOTERS ARRESTED.
Ilaltliuorr Carmrnt Milkers
Bat-
tie Police.
Baltimork, March 2. In a strike riot
here thin afternoon, participated In by
more than 7,000 garment workers unci
their sympathizers, deputy marshals
were targets for bottles, bricks nnd other
missiles. The disturbance was cltywlde,
Tho principal trouble developed in the
northeastern section of the city, where
more than 6,000 persons engaged In
hand to hand hattln with tint, police, Our
hundred and sixteen men and women
were arrested. When the mob tried to
break through the police lines policemen
and strikers rolled about thn stteet, 1 111
lles, bricks nnd strips of Iron were used
freely. In the crowd was Miss Nattily
Ells, a social worker, who protested to
Marshal Carter several times about the
rough handling of women who were ar
rested. Several women fainted when placed In
cells. None of (he strikers were released
on ball and all had to remain over night.
The charge against the prisoners was
unlawful assembly.
HENRY FORD IS 24 HOURS LATE.
Fall to Withdraw From Presiden
tial Primary llnllut In 'I'line.
I.ANBINO, Mich,, March 2, Henry Fold
telephoned Secretary of State Vaughan
thin morning: "Please withdraw my
name from the Presidential primary."
Mr, Ford's iciiuest was about twenty
four hours late, Proofs of ttie official
ballot with bin name on for thu He.
publican nomination weie tend last night
by the chief of the compiling division and
the ballots went out to-day.
The law requires that withdrawal must
be made before noon on Match 1, so Mr,
Ford's mime Is apt to stay on the ballots
unless be can teach some ngieemeut with
the cleiks of every county and head off
the printing there, liven this method In
qijt'Htltinc-1 us tu It h Iffpilily.
Ann mi I I fl fim
urnvjiALooriEi
A TEUTON PLOT
TO SCARE U. S.
Thc.v Resent Rumors in
Berlin Tluit Congress Is
Against Wilson.
BKRXKTORFF DENIES
SENDING REPORTS
Vl5mN1.TONi Mlirc.,, ..mowing In-
dlgiiathui Is frit In SUtr Department,
cirrus our nn.ii is rcgaruru as orKiin- j
lcd propaganda, directed not only from
German centres In thin country tut
., .. . .... . i.. i..n
fr,M" ,,,,r,ls" l"n, ln to,CArf
,Ih' American CoiiKrcfH and tho people of
thin t'ountty Into thr lienor that l rfM
il.'iit Wlon' Kitittv In thr handling of
thr Mihm.irlnr Ifnur In leadline t war.
To thr n'ainr extent oltlclal" renrnt
UmiiKb reimrtn hcltiK Nprrad liroadcant
In II, rlln and heliiK printed In llerlln
m whi.iprm ai thoiiKh Ii.ikoiI on rcportn
......... ,. ... .... ....
ofliiK ni'M.n i nun .iriiiiiKiun .
(ieiui.iu I'oreicn om.r that t'onRrees la
llnnl in nnywhrrr from 2 to 1 to h to 1
nirnliirt thr rrcldrnt'n Itihlntr nrr on the
...... , , , , ,,
.mi-li'""--- in.'v.
merch.iiit iceneN ..rioed for d.fence.
iiifi.rinati.iu comeniing these iieriin
r. iKirin rout.iined in a long .able-
BCim received -it the Stat. Peparttuent
thin afternoon fro,,, Ambassador Oerard.
who ilrclared that the Imnrenslon ex-
'-'''d Miongly In thr uerman capital. "...,... ?..
omoi.it ciriien an wen as on me mirris, vnc ruicign rveiittiuun VUiiiiiuiiw, iinu oriiHiur ierii w ueny
neitherof ooigleilo"he, wunVrj-. that the President had, made the extraordinary remarks at
liernmn Knibn..)'. tienui. tributed to him'. Senator Stone entered a partial denial and
The Herman KmbaKsv denied to-night Senator Kern did not respond to the challenge.
.m'Ti 3-The fhitc Housc isf,ue(1 an unqualified denial of any
been sent to iieriin by .mbasador von utterance on the part of the President to which any such mean-
i ...V la ,.u .,,li(.lf...l In t 1 r-ii 1 n "
quartern ht'tt luwtviT, that the llerlln
newnp.,pem had doui.tienH received fun
r.n,,n. ,if ih vmentn nr tiled In thin
.-ountry concerning speaker oiark'n
nbservatlons to the rresldetil when ne
informed the chief Kxccutho that the
again"! hTm.U' M "' '
., Sfnrfl!! riwlt"PK'oln of an armed merchant vessel with a loss of Ameri-
the per
printed In certain American newspapers
. . .. .... . ..... . , 1 .. .
in.ll III' .ejiiu.n iutri,niiriit r vv..,-
vlticed that thr I'nlteU States In prepar-
lag to sever relations with Uermany Midi
that Germany Is preparing for such an
outcome of the negotiation.
be" "f8;1
. .... I .I,., 1 1 ... .1 ijlnR .a iim M n. In
i-.-i.ii-i. ,i,.. ..i.t-. .-. - - ...
spired with .the yolr.llr.ISn" UJ"l!M!l
the Amerlran ople Into forcln Presl-
dent Wl sun to iicnu esce In GermBtiv's
warded from Herlln by mall on Vebruary
11. These appendices contain copies ofi
thr alleged secret orders of the Ilrltlh .
Admiralty dircvtlng Ilritlsh merchant
While It Is said that the final derision
or tnr American l.ovcrnment respecting
I "'r'r " " "I,ac sunmarines. dui
to tire on them If they appear.
The American View.
It was stated authoritatively this af
ternoon that while the 1'nlted States Is
not contending for the right of Ameri
cans to travel on merchant vessels un
der orders to carry on offensive war
fare against submarines, the American
Government ln not Inclined to regard the
firing on a submarine thttt appears
within range of a merchant ship as
"offensive warfare."
Offensive, action by a merchantman
was defined by a high official of the
Department a-s "attacks made on sub-
' submarines." in oiner words. It
wa8 tilt(1 u niercliantman may resist
CH,,turfi ,houKh Hhf. ,OHe!1 hcr Inmllnty
. .hl, ,n ,h. '
slHtlng, but such resistance does not re
lieve the submarine, should the resist
ance cease, from taking measures for
the safety of passengors and other non
combatants on lioard the merchantman.
When tho tlnin comes for the Depart
ment to give Its ruling on the con
troversy, it wan explained at the De
partment, the decision would take
thu form of an acceptance or rejection
of the terms proposed by Germany for
a settlement of the husltaula case, as
one of the stipulations mnde by the
United States wan that Germany should
promise to conduct her submarine war
faro In accordance with the rules of
warfare laid down hy international law.
SAW TWO PRESIDENTS SHOT.
Col, Kosa Illrsi Witnessed Lincoln
and artlrld Assassinations.
DovEit. N. H.. March 2. Col. Uverett
O. Foss, a gel S5, formerly a newspaper
publisher hem, who claimed to hnve been
tho only man to witness tho Hssisslna
tlon of two Presidents, died yesterday,
He was nt Ford's Theatre when Lincoln
wan shot and was ulso present nt thi
shooting of flat-Held.
He received the title of Colonel by ap
pointment from Gov, Medary of Min
nesota while In newspaper work In St.
Paul. Col. Fos.s started thn publication
of the Courier at St, Peter, Minn. In 181
ho returned to Dover and founded the
Daily Union.
BRITISH FRIZES $30,000,000.
Nnlr of Co nt raise lid Seised by Fleet
Make II lab Total.
Upeeial Cable nenpalrh foTns Svs,
UiNDoN. March 2. Thr prtjse fund
resulting from the sales of contraband
materials so Iced by tho . navy now
amounts to more than 6,000,000 (f SO,
000,000), Wr.trrn North Carolina "The land f the
l." Keuehril 111 through drswlnr and niale
rnimi sleeninif eats. New York to A.herllle, tI
SOt rilHIlN UAll.WAY. Prllciitful climate,
Kleirmit hotiln. N. V. Office, SCI Fifth Ave.
.trfr,
GORE QUOTES WILSON AS NOT AVERSE TO
WAR WITH GERMANY; PRESIDENT DENIES IT;
STONE CALLS ARMED SHIP POLICY A MISTAKE
UKianoma benator
Executive's Statement Finds
Kern Silent Hint It Was
Von Bernstorff's View
WILSON SAID TO HAVE TOLD
MEMBERS OF
- rsi. i. a. ' e a. cil 1 "
uorc s statement in senate snocKs congress
and Helps to Turn Situation in
President's Favor
WASHINGTON, March 2.
developments in the submarine
1 Senator Gore of Oklahoma, one of the Democratic lead-
... ... i
vrs e ot-iiaie oy ciiarKiiiK mat. rresiuent VYiistin nau
'told Senators Stone and Kern that
t, o..km:n l. ....,IJ j:l...'.. wnlnllAMu .
DU""'Ql""- "c
iL. i 1.UI ..IJ r-ttf
"ul M""""' wuuiu lunuw nu mat nils llllKllt nut imeea-
sai'ily be nn evil to the United States, as it would bring the
Eur0pean struggle to a conclusion by midsummer, and render a
. , . ... ..
Rreat Service to ClVlllZatlOll.
O Conotnr Clnm otiuOnnrrnrl Snnntnr- ?fnnn nViuirmon nf
ltlg could be attached as was
Oklahoma.
WAlonuiiio.
4 From an authoritative source it was learned that the
,
President, in his conferences with members of Congress, had
said that a diplomatic break with Germany would follow the
can ljfe an(J that it had been
1.1.1 U 1 ll nil n , , .
that HUCh a break WOUlCl probably mean War. The President
1 pvnrptmpf! thp nnininn that iiifnrrprl nnrtirinnHnn nf tVin
8,80 expressed me Opinion inai Llliorcea participation 01 me
United States in the European
. A . . , ,
irrg IV W nii'TlIU II1U1IIIIP.
.p. n,,,!,,,, . Sonntor lioro'i'h
1,11 "J""n u iiumr mm
,( ,), .Pf fnilt niirttrlpiltlnn III tho
1 '
" r Would not Ih II linil tlllllC for (Ills
country.
On tlio contrary, the PrPsiuVnt In
ull Ills talks with monibors of t'uti
KTtss Insisted tlint wtir wits the Int
tiling; tlint lu wanted ami Hint -111
ami not Coiikh'ss's rnut-M' wn Hip
one tlint would Insure pence.
First Maid by vnn tlernttorff.
In referrltiB to repreventntlons tlint
the severing of diplomatic relntlons
with Germany would lend tn wnr
President Wilson apparently was re-
ferrlng to an opinion expressed hy
Count von liornstorff. the German
Amhassndor. to Secret nry I.tinslng.
It was reported to-ilny on sootl
authority that the stntenicnl wn
liintle to "-. Limning hy the German
Amhtissndnr Hint the breaking nlT of
relation" lietwecn the two Govern
ments would evenllially mean hos
tilities When Secretary Lansing vn ques.
Honed In regard to this report he
dts-'.lp.cd to make tiny comment on It,
nnd the German Ambassador uNo re
fused to say Anything one way or the
other. In reply to a question Count
vnn Bernslnrff did deny, however,
that he had intimated In any way
that Germany would declare war.
It Is believed that the Amlmssndor's
remark to Secretary Lansing was
merely the expression of his opinion
n to what the llltlmnte results nf ft
hreuk In the diplomatic reunions j The general belief in Washington is
would he 1,10 although at heart op-
As ,. result of the shock given to l'-.''l ';Ml.e President will finally fol
n " 1 lo" ,P"1 ,,f 'he Senate, and on
Congress hy Sennlnr Gores state- inpM,ni , u,,. patriotism of tho mem
mentK on the floor of the Senate the I bers stand behind tho ITesldent.
situation tn regard to the armed Gore statement In tho Senate
summon threw that body Into a fever of ex-
merchantmen Issue hits lmprmo.1 In ,.,.,,, ,,,, ,.n,n,1Pll prac,oa..
xtr Wilson's favor.
I fs0 serious were the Gore .date-
- . . . .. . .
ient that members or Until I lie rotl-
ate nnd Iho House begun to realize
more clearly than they have before
that something must lie done liuinedl
ntely to head off tho discussion of
foreign nffnlrs In Congress anil to set
tle the deplornhle Issue thnt has
arisen between the President nntl his
former supporters.
Gore nrsolatlon Doomed.
The Senate responded quickly to
the effects of tho afternoon debate,
and n poll hy the lenders this evening
showed that n mnjorlty was snfely In
hand for the tahllng of both the Core
nnd tho Jones resolutions warning
Americans from armed morchnnt ves
sels. Thl action will be satisfactory to
the President, as it will tletlnttely dis
pose of the two resolutions nnd will
amount to a rejection of them. Those
In control of the Hennto reached an
s Challenge on
IMPENDING BREAK
Tlu-so were the moat important
situation to-day:
. n .!J....l. lirlt 1 I
unless Germany backed down
mi,.wih..h iimuunn,
I 41.1 !Li 1
. 0 . T, . ,
set forth by the Senator from
represented to this Government
struggle might result in bring-
iigicemont to-night tn lirlnc the tnnt
tor tu n vole to-morrow. It l estl
ninti'il Hint the President will control
Hie slttintioti In Hie Senate by at least
sixteen vntfx. The Republicans nave
liven imlled and a majority of them
will support Mr. Wilson.
On the House side also to-day's
debate In fnngress hns had a soberlns
effect, but the sentiment in favor of
the .Mcl.eiiiore resolution warning
Americans off armed merchantmen Is
still tlangerotisly strong. In fact on
the merits of the Issue a majority of
Hie House still seems to he against
' the President, and it is hy no means
certain that the resolutions can bo
voted down In that body without some
compromise.
Tn Join Isane Squarely.
The House Foreign notations Com
mittee plans to reort out a resolution
tii-inori-ow that will Join the Issue
Mpiarely between the President and
the llnni' leaders. Administration
siipiiortor- claimed to-night that they
now- had a stifllcient number of votes
In the Foreign Affairs Committee to
rcpnti such a resolution out ad
v eri'lj .
Tho-c who are opposing the Admin
iHtnillou will seek to bring about a
cotniuomlsr on the hauls of a declara
tion that the President, in the event of
a criisln with Germany, Is to submit all
the facts to Cong reus before acting
nnnuy.
The President Is still standing firmly
fur u decisive, showdown on the Issue
ruined by the House resolutions, and
he seemed to-night as firmly deter
mined as ever against accepting: any
compromise.
the entire day. Not since the debate
in the Senate over the .aiullng of
1 M 111 I'l I If 4 (tl Vlrxi i VllT Iinu Iho Uanntn
:".,".," i ,"";
,,r()m ,, i,iioiltntlve source It wn
learned that this Is what occurred at
inr L-.ioiei ciices ueiween uie rresuimt
and the Congress leaders which guvo
rise to Senator Gore's startling; state
ments: The President told the Senate lend
ers that thr way to avoid wnr was to
convince the rest of the world that tho
people nf thr United Stntes were stand
ing solidly behind the Kxecutlve. He
lidded that the course which Congress
was seeking to purmir would lead
toward war nnd not away from It, be
cause a yielding In the present case
would rttmlt In further curtailment of
American rights.
The President told the members of
Congress that the only course that the
United States could safely pursue now
was to stand on and by International
law. Any other course would result
in making circumstances themselves
the sole guide, and under these condi
tions It would not be Ions before the
fubric of international law itself would
crumple nnd disappear.
A i-oiicenelon of this nature to Qer-
Senator Thomas P. Gore
.many wr.u'.d nceiltiito
a concession
to UtiBland. nml noon the rnlte.l Stuti-n
would be hopelessly at sea. The
lresldent Insisted that uch a course,
would lead toward war.
The President was asked what would
happen If u Oerrrmn submarine sank
nn armed merchantman with a loss of
American life.
lln intimated that tho only thing
which could happen In that event
would lie a break In diplomatic rcln
tionK. He was asked then what effect this
would have and he replied that it had
leen represented that this would lend
to war.
Flnully thr lYcsIdent was asked
what would be The effect of the par
U.B'"' , , ' V.C." i? i ,..'" President anthortifd an nnqialllled
ti.ii. ,i irivu .iii.k 1. iiintui i, it.tr
the effect rf bringing the weir to an
end probably ln six months.
The whole tenor of the President's
Interview with members' of Congress
waa that he was striving ordmtly for.
peace, that ho had In fact cmo to be'
known a a leader who would keep the
United States out of the war. and It ,
was to continue In this same course
Its mistake.
President la Anary Mood.
t the same time the President
showed Intense feeling In his talk with
numbers of CotiKrens, nnd It Is under
r i h'wpoVi as Senator Gore informed the
stood that at one time he cxclal ned . m r,elvc) , havo npftr(1
that he hail len Jeered, sneered at . rrPill1(.M nothltiff to indicate
.ana rioicuieu over nis euorts in main-
I tain peace. It was this strong feeling
and flash of resentment that, coupled ,1(rlrP(1 Wllr. on the contrary, the
with the President's frank statements .rotii(ient told us that he was work
nbout Uie situation. led many of the inR Ms.M and Any to keP,, ths nation
Congressmen tu leave the White I mlt 0f wnr. Several members of the
House greatly alarmed. It was these House asked me recently if the Presl
exprenslons also which brought on the dent had made any statement Justify
uprising In Congress. j ng the circulated reports and I told
Senator Gore talked calmly of the I them flatly that he had not."
GORE'S CHARGES AROUSE
WILSON MEN IN SENATE
Washington'. March 2. Senator log that be believed In any way, or In
Core. In the debate on the armed shlp,- J 'nt,.r,aln.",1. '" J"1'!' .th.a!
. . , . . , , ...
Issue In the senate to-day. made th.s
statement:
"I Introduced this resolution because 1
was apprehensive that we were speeding ' a w M".
headlong upon wur: perhaps 1 ought to PvM,,n,.p ,h.,t j was convinced that It
go further nnd say what I have hitherto t must lie founded upon fact, that the
avoided saying, that my action was baed ' Piesldent suggested to the Sehator that
on a report which seemed to come from J1"' u? n X
the hlKhet and most responsible !l '""v n middle of the summer,
authority! TlL cJrVoln "senatorH and ell Am I right in that may I ask the Sena
tain members of the House. In a run- mr from Missouri,
ferenco with the ITesldent of the 1'nlted , ...
States, retelved from the President the lone Denies it.
Information, if not the declaration, that Tnr President of the Cnlled States
If Germany Insisted upon her position thei n,n,ir no such statoment to me as quotrd
United Slates would Insist upon her ixisl-; by the Senator from Oklahoma." an-
tlon, nnd that It would result probably ' PB., Senator Stone. "Whatever the
In o. breach of diplomatic relations, and president said to me Is something that
that a breach of diplomatic relation- ,i !lllt j..!,, to repeat. When 1 go
would probably br followed by n state of to ,1P white House to hold a eonversa
war. nnd that a state of war might not I ,ion .. .i. Prestiteni. if I m nnvu-bere
be of Itself ami of necessity an evil to , luld a conversation with a Senator n" manlier of doubt th.i
tills republic, but that the United States, I ,. AUV r olllclal, what he says to , covering thnt qn. stlot.
by entering upon war now. might be able )e HVncrcd. I have not repeated con- doubt, and may well be
. l I A aI us Inn ! Iiililmini. 1 ...... .4 .1.1.. I I. ..11 .It.
to bring It to a conclusion by midstim
mer arul thu" render a great service to
civilization.
Mr. President, oildrd the Senator, "I
cannot say what the truth may be. 1
tell you thr tale an It was told to me.
This came to my ears In such n way,
with such a concurrence or testimon,
with such Internal and external tnnrks
of truth, that I feared It might b" the
truth, and If such a thing be conceivable
I did not feel that, discharging my duty
as a Senator, I could withhold whatever
feoble service I might render to nveit
the catastrophe of war.
,-.,. vnneli for Trnth.
Cant Dimti ror Trnin.
"Now. I do not know that this reiMiit Is
the truth, I simply suggest It as explain -
Ing my own conduct, I think the Senator
from Massachusetts (Lodge) and tho
Senator from Mississippi (Williams) are
right In saying that thr Piesldent has a
right to know whether Congress will
back hint In the opinion, If ho liar such
an opinion, that th sinking nf an armed
belligerent ship will br a sutllclent cause
for war, und I think, too, Mr. President,
that members of the Senate and that
members of the other house have a r'ght
to show whether the opinions and senti
ments Imputed to thr Piesldent were
given In their Interview with him.
"Mr, President, it ine Mmaior rrotn
Missouri (Mr. Stone) , will ' JV "K;
gestionn. or tnai sore in "'' '" '"'
mane, urn iihuiu ...iii.i en . no. .,
mane, n.s nr, a. ' '
with me. If the Senator from tidl.ina
t1v Wnrti will n:,v tn the Strnilti, linoil
(Mr. Kern) will say to the Senate upon
his responsibility as a Senator that the
President did not Indicate Vint war
might not be ungrateful nnd that this
repuhlln could render a gre-al service to
civilization his denial will be binding
upon me."
Senator Stone had arisen, seemingly
pale will, anger.
"Mr. President," he Interrupted, "I do
not know why the Senator from Okla
homa quotes me nn saying "
"I did not epjote the Senator as say
Ins It; not at all," said Senator Gore,
"Then I say," asserted Senator Stone,
"In all fairness to the President and to
the facts of tho case, so far as they
are within my knowledge, that the Pres
ident never stated to mo or In my hear-
Sentiment in the House Is Still
Sharply in Favor of a Ban on
Belligerent Ship Travel, but
Test Will Be Avoided
COMPROMISE MAY GIVE CONGRESS
LAST SAY IF CRISIS FINALLY COMES
Gore and Other Hostile Resolutions Are
Expected to Be Tabled To-day by
i the Upper Branch.
' rpNodo In the Rnmto after It wan
ovr.
"I don't cure what tiny ono may
my," ho observed. "1 know that what
1 f have mild Ik true. 1 know that the,
President said nulistiintlnlly tho things
attributed to him by me. I have reason
tu believe that he pointed out that
the participation of the United States
in the war might turn out to lie n
blessing because It would nave such
an Influence upon the result that It
would end the war before the sutn
mer'n end and be of service to human
ity." Thl Is the statement that the White
House Issued after reading what Sena'
tor Gore had said on the floor of tho
Semite:
When tha attention of the White
House wh. railed to certain statement!
In Senator (lore's npeerh this afternoon,
denial of any alterant to which any
snrh meaning eonld be attached."
Flood Heard No Word.
. ..,,. K, .
Hepreentatlve Kood. chairman of
"'f "mr omml"fi . M',
has partlcJpated In aeveral
White House conferences during the
jireoence Justifying the expressed ap
prehension of Senator Gore. Chairman
Flood said:
The lresldent has said nothing ln
my presence that would Justify such n
,Jut u.lr wlth Germany might not he
,ln ft,r Mn ntry or that he
mil uriHi-fii uie i. miit-u man j unit un-
,.cmril, ,.mven, wouM be desirable or
would result In rood to the 1'nlted
, States."
vernations I hnvo had with the President
1 have stated Impressions that the con
vei sat Ions I had with htm made upon
my mind, nnd I stated them In substance
in a letlrr I wrote to the President,
K rioi-pValed" the i.
which wan alven to the public, but I
them'-elves "
"I mnde no Intimation thnt thr Sena
tor h.ul lepe-ated the ITcsldetit'a convrr-
satlon with him,
irtorted thr Senator
from Oklahoma.
At this point Senator James of Ken
tuck.v . an Administration supporter, In
ter ruptrd.
! "T1"' s,'n-l,or trn w" haM h big
Kentucklan. "that the fear cieated by
I this rumor which came to his cars
' caused him to Introduce this resolution.
The Senator In on perfectly good terms
with the Piesldent. Is he not?''
"Hntlrely."
"Why did not the Senator go to the !
President himself ail. I uncertain ai first
hand the facts?"
"If I had received an Invitation to nc.
company the Senator from Indiana and'...i ,.. ..,i,..ru ,t,n tlm mli eif tbes.
others to thn Whltn House It was ovei -
looked," said Mr. Goto with a smile.
IsUa Why lie Didn't Go.
"Hut." Insisted James, "this matter i
was of such pressing Importance and so1
thr ores.
ent Chief Uxecutlve Is the President of
I his own party, and ho Is one of the p,es
,n,.. frlpnilslbe niiestl,.,. I
I Ident's clo-est frlends-thr questlo
I , , snator why ,,',m,.f
. .. .. . . . ' ...
did
1 not go thr President would have been
very glad to have seen the Senator and
asceitaln from tho President Just what
ho Mini and what he thought'."'
Senator eiore rrpllcil
In the tlrst place. 1 have no evidence
of any conlldentlal relationship th.it
might lead me to hope that I might re.
celvn the Piesldeut's Judgment In the
matter or his Impressions In the mat
ter. I acted, us I say, upon vvlrii seemed
to he a reliable retiort,
"Of course, I may have been in rrioi
about It. I realized that at the timi
Mr. President, I acted In the lurid light
of those Impressions, Certainly 1 do not
undertake to quote what the President
said to Senators, nor did I Intimate thai
nt.ii, ... rciiiiiiii.ii old itn, . ,,o, ill, .in ,,1,11
the Senator had repmlcd to mr re -
I petitnl tn in, ihr i miixmmiIioii iit i Hit
President, but I assume that other i-en.
atom received th,. same report, nml .f it
be untrue, of coiiric. evrr hod mil t be
gratllled.
"I possess only Unite wisdom, and I
wan doing my dutj I could nee It
under the evidence and under tin. light
available.
"Let tnr sa furthrr. in conclusion,
that I have no disposition tn Interfcrr
with diplomatic relations as far as those
negotiations do not Inipiugr unou the
constitutional power i,r Cii,gi..s to ilr
rlare war; but I .no not willing to be
Involved In war with Grim.iny, or any
other Power, on arcnum of thr partlcii
lar question heir Involved, although
whenever thr hoiim, whenever the
vital InterrftK of the I'lptcd Slt...
I whenever the essential rights nf any
American cimcn are vioiateii o out
raged I shall go as far a lie who go-s
runnent to place at the nlspo-al of ths
commander In chief of the nrniv mid tha
navy every available m. n, i, ,1 cvorv
available dollar, whetlnr that Power b
Germany or any other Power imdir the
sun. I have no choice of enrmle. "
Stone Ilrann Delinle.
i The debate began when Senator S r .;
chairman of the Foreign Relations Com
1 mlttee, nroe nnd r.-od n cniefult nit-
liaren naiemrni. in It he said:
"To my mind. In thin rxlgency, Ii
of the highest Importance that Sen
ators, Itf presentattves and the President
nil alike should stmik to each other
nnd to thr country with thr utmost
candor ind frankness, fre from ills
Ingenuousness. We should wear our
hearts, so to speak, upon our sleeve .
r.ot for daws to peck at, but thnt we
may know exactly how men In twisl
tlons of responsibility feel and think
"As I understand It, the lYen'dfrit's
nttltude Is this: that he has eon udel
to support the contention tint i!'l;.
rrent merchant ships hnve a r'gl,' m
der Intel national law to bear ,vim r
defensive purposes. What he m.iv .
gard n a defensive nrrn.mieut 1 do in'
know; In fort I doubt thai any ui'u
would venture authorltat iv, ' to' ileH-e
that kind of armament
"Furthermore, If Gi- ,.., .ir vi '
sel should, without warm ,g nir upon
und sink an armed men h.uitni n of 'e
enemy he would hold th at - u-u to
lawless act, and If Anter.nin r ens
should suffer therefrom ' w.ml oi.l
the German Government t, 'ir si
account.
"If, notwithstanding, thr Germ '-Jfc
ernment should persist 'n t ,. i . . i ,.
would sever diplomatic ! 1
submit the matter to ' IT' el's u i
under the Constitution i- fie w . i n.
Ing power
"I must herr s'ntr w i ,iu-il ' anti
r.ess my wn tiosltlon as I have atid
It to the President In th.s . mr ignncy
there should be nothing if h koii ci
tlr,cse, much less of pirttvu.-lilii. D!s
trrsslng as it Is tn mr to be obliged
to disagree with tin- President, as w-eu
is with many ot niv rolleagurs, tnv
opinions have bfen matured inter great
delibtTfitlon, nnd inj sniie .it d-i ?
Impel atlvc
loLi-n Oiiosttc VleiT.
"I cannot but be levi
h.lt a .
v itrinru
. iilt.l ib-fen-
erent inenhaut s lp. ..
no matter whethi r it i... ,
slve or offensive .irm.inie'it
eng-.igrd In
transporting contraband wai rn.itrr.al to
the nrmy or navy of Inr sovereign. '
In nil r.ssentl.il respects the niutviie-r
of a duly comml.slouiI war ve-el.
"To say the least, I think their can b
doubt th.it the taw in"
ilvr. l-
lie iondibirvi "is
debatable I shall not ill-uss thai qui t
tlon at this time; 1 nn, meielv st.n r;
my position and what I know to be t ie.
position of uumeiuiis others.
"I shall tcel obliged, as a dutv to -v ,
self, my constituency and the countrv. t ,
mediate future, with a view to elilmratj
ing the reasons upon wmcn my eonvic-
I lions .ire predicated.
"The Piesldent Is flrmlv eippnsr.1 ,
the Idea embodied In the Gore rrsolj' or
Ilr Is not only opposed tn Conn ess
passing a law lel.itlng tn this sui ie .
but he Is opposed to any form of of. .!
warning to American citizens to i
off so-1 ailed nrined merchantmen. If '
coulil Irive my way, which I know r c.i i
not. 1 would take. some, definite! strn -a
step ns far as the Constitution won t
permit to save this country from l
coining embroiled in this i:ur .peau w ir
thioufih the recklessness of foolh.u- v
men. I t' ml; this In a f-ilr staiemeni of
the situation as It Is to-day
The Pivsldent bus written to Hrni'.
sent'itlvn Pirn and ho has Mutrd, to n .
i ,nu , Conctess have liren. . d
-nil source of e-mharrassmenl !
him In coudu.-i'iig diplom.itlo tiecoi' .
tlons with the belligerent I'ow.is igim cA
rcspe ting this subject
"I '"ii M "'at l so nnd U 1 res
. grett.lbie. vmi wen miu, n-n u.
, l have diligently sought to prevent, '
iniroimciioii 'i i,, r--"iun"n" "i .
stibje t, and to allay my agitation wc
...i-i.c.l in il. but the efforts I Hindu w t
others in this behalf luvo been on.
Uii'tlalb successful.
"Now we .nn Informed bv the Piesl
dent that he in solicitous that these reo.
Itltlons should be disposed of In both
1 houses, :iii, th it the ittitudo of Consre-i
should be tnore cle.illv dellnrd. 1 ,i'ii
full sv nip.iilp' with lilm lis to that miw
I will i impel .it. to bring that matter t
a he. ol
'The d.ltlculi.v i- In air ing, nc i pi i
tll.lt would ne ilfectle all I of V.llllo.
,im in ir- t.. an willuct t ntrihuto n
till. iK w. thin lev pnwei n tirrangln 3
plan of i ii -u with 1 '"' s ireir punos
of bringing the ivcutivi ml legislative
ib pal t in' I - in'o a "oi o it ti.n.v be, s 'i'l
I ,,iufouiell.v none ' is ", tn.vt tm.
' . . , , , . . .,
1 I'lceldcn'. having bell ml him the su,
4
