' trrrfmv
- .
-, giwgwrrff-
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGhIT
EXTRA
VOL.II.-NO. 147
PHILADELPHIA, MUD AY", MAItOII 3, 191G
CoriRionr, 1910, Bi xttB Fublio I.EMitB CoiiMNt,
PRIOJ33 OITJB OJSin?
J!'3Pr-JrtSaV'.Hp:i-i f,
FINANCIAL EDITION
i'
U
TEUTONS TAKE
DOUAUMONT IN
VERDUN DRIVE
Furious Struggle Wins Vil
lage Four Miles North
east of Stronghold
-REPULSED "AT V A U X
tyhvc After Wave of Attack
Beaten Back at Strategic
' Position
PARIS, March 3. Gcrmnn troops
Jiavo reached the village of Douau
mont In a fierce struggle, the War
Office admitted this nftcrnoon.
BERLIN, Mnrch 3
German troops havo captured tho vil
li bo of Douaumont, four miles northeast
of Verdun, nnd Just outsldo Tort Dounu
mofit, after a furious struggle, taking
1000 -prisoners, tho "War Offleo reported
this nftcrnoon.
Renewing their offensive with heavy
blows, tho Germans are driving tnwnid
Verdun west nnd southwest of Douau
mont, It Is nnnuunccd. Oerman lllcrs liavo
bombarded tho city, and German Infnnlry
la attomptli'R to cut off the French hold
ing? Pepper Heights,
At the tamo time It Is admitted that tho
English broke through a German posi
tion south of Yprcs, In West Flanders.
Tho battle of Verdun la ngaln raging
with tho utmost Intensity, the Germans
delivering terrific blows against tho
French positions. ,
Tho report says:
"Southeast of Ypres, on the canal, the
English broko into the bastion we had
taken on February U. and penetrated a
small front Into what had previously
been our advanced trenches. They were
Immediately driven out of tho trench sec
tion, but still occupy somo parts of the
bastion. South o'f La Bassee cannl mines
wcro exploded. There was lively lighting
at close quarters. In Champagne tho
enemy artillery increased its activity. In
Bolanto wood, northeast of La Chalnde,
In tho Argonno region, a French attack
was repulsed
nrt fl, l,Mp4ia nn tlin pnsfc h.inlc nf the
Meuse River, after artillery preparation, )
we cleared tho village of Douaumont or
the enemy, extending our lines west and
south of tho village, and also extending
our lines at Fort Douaumont to a moro
favorable position. More than 1000 pris
oners were taken.
"Our airmen dropped bombs In the vlcln-
Ity of tho fortress of Verdun.
"East of DounI, Lieutenant Immelman,
", the famous German aviator, shot down an
English biplane. One St the occupants
- was killed and tho other wounded."
' ' ' PARIS. March 3.
Fighting with redoubled fury, the Oer
' mans have launched another drive
against the French liosltlons north of
Verdun. They havo penetrated tho ad
vanced line at Douaumont, It la admitted,
but failed to gain 'at Vaux.
The Fronch War Office, In nn official
communique today, reported that tho Ger-
man bombardment lasted all night and
that the "Germans assaulted tho Fronch
positions continuously.
Cruel losses were inflicted upon the
Germans, tho communique asserts.
Hugo masses of German troops, In close
formation, were hurled forward tlmo aftor
time into tho hurricane of fire which
swept their ranks from tho French forts
and trenches.
The adanced French lino at Douau-
, mont has been pierced, but fighting of tho
utmost vlolenca continues In that sector.
At Vaux, tho location of one of tho
forts In the Verdun girdle, tho Germans
drove forward persistently, in a series of
imashlng attacks. Despite tho machine
'runflre which wlthorcd their ranks and
left mounds of dead, the attacking forces
swept onward In assault after assault.
The text of the communique follows:
"To the north of Verdun the bombard
ment and the attacks of tho enemy havo
continued throughout the whole night. The
fighting is going on with redoubled vio
lence In the sector of the village of Douau
mont. v
" "After several attempts, which were re
pulsed with cruel losses, tho aermans
succeeded in penetrating our advanced
j
Continued on Page Four, Column One
GERMAN RAIDER STEAMS
THROUGH ENGLISH CHANNEL
Ehip, Believed Preying on Com
raerco, Chased by Cruisers
BOULOGNE. France, March 3 A ves
l believed to be, a German commerce
wider steamed through the English
Channel today, going westward at top
peed.
She refused to stop on signal and swift
French and British, cruisers started In
pursuit. "
THE WEATHER
We are assured of two fair days to
come by the weather man, which fills
us with Joy. If only the functions of
the weather man could be broadened; if
only he could predict the political weather
' Veil as the atmospheric ! It would be
nae to pick up the paper in the mo- ilng
to And that "Three days of clear and cool
conditions are expected In Congress, the
orm of yesterday having passed out to
We could sit back then and think
; jomethlng worth whilejrhey talk
of taking the tariff outTolItiC8- by
putting it into the hands-jof-ft- fcommts
won, why not take the politicians out
of politics? As a matter of fact7 that
is hat we are doing all the time, Every
section since elections begin has been
rpJne Purpose of removliiifrpQlltlclans
Worn public life and replacing7 them with
citizens. t r
wat process: were always 'successful
r9, ou'"1 predict thepoltlcal weather
oeiier than we can predict the smiles and
frowns of the skies.' 0
FORECAST
..ft?r,PIiilMPhia ad vicinity Un
"Med tonight, with probably snow;
frturday fair; not much change in
"np'rature; strong north and nortli
Vitst winds.
For details see page 17,
Y.fiftTt A"M"T IIAiTiTn
ft gj JMJU.U
P wn" mI f"Jaj( 'motions. Feb? n'SJ
BJffl Smo.,, brow! ol4-falatoni
UinS?y ,fewr-i return! t KM SS
f DlB,?a?iKl'faMS?iK..??'f-. . jwUhbor-
ut t thou Leant IMS J.
PRESIDENT POINCARE
Head of French Republic has re
turned from his visit to Verdun,
where he congratulated the troops
on their valiant defense against
the German onslaughts.
POINCARE PRAISES
VERDUN DEFENDERS;
BACK FROM FRONT
President Is Warm in Com
mendation of Courage and
Skill of French
Warriors
GIVES NATION'S THANKS
PARIS. March 3. President Polncare
returned to PnrH today from tho fortress
of Verdun, against which tho dermans
have been battering since February 21.
The following official communique was
given out today relative to President Poln
care's visit to the Verdun front:
"President Polncnro left Paris on Tues
day evening for Rcvlgny. whore a Zeppe
lin had been shot down. He congratulated
tho French gunners upon their work and
conferreda military medul upon Kcr
geant Malor Grametllng and war crosses
upon several gunners. The President also
presented tho men wtlh watches as a
personal gift. M. Polncare then pro
ceeded to Vordun nnd the fortifications
In that region. He was received at Ver
dun hendquarters by Genernls Joffre, the
French commander-in-chief, nnd Petaln.
Accompanied by tho commander-ln-chlof,
tho President visited the army corps oper
ating on both banks of tho Meuse River,
north of Verdun.
"President Polncare told the men he
had como especially to offer them his
deepest and most heartfelt congratula
tions and to notify them that they had
tho warmest encouragement of the whole
nation.
"The President returned to Paris this
morning.
"The return of M. Polncare was fol
lowed by an official notice to tho effect
that tho War Minister has ordered Gen
eral Joffre to congratulate the French sol
diers for their heroism In behalf of tho
country."
(Tho foregoing Is tho first official an
nouncement that General Joffre, the
French commander-in-chief. Is personally
directing the defense of Verdun.)
STORM HEADED THIS WAY
Probable Snow Tonight Will Precede
Blow Tomorrow
Warnings, telling of a violent storm
expected hero tomorrow, were displayed
today along the Atlantic coaBt from Jack
sonville to Now York. -
Tho storm Is now -cast-northeast, but
will shift to northwest late this after
noon and tonight. Unsettled weather to
night, with piobablo snow, will precede
the strong northwest winds which are to
reach the city tomorrow. It was cold this
morning, the result of a combination of
a 21-degree temperature and a 20-mlle
wind. Sprinkles of "snow early today were
soon succeeded by bright sunshine.
Bishop Hits at Richmond's Friend
Bishop Ithlnelander lias notified David
Witmer. of 2133 Arch street, who had
been serving as lay reader In Old St.
John's Protestant Episcopal Church, 3d
nnd Brown streets, since the suspension
of the rector, the Rev. George Chalmers
Richmond, that he must not act In that
capacity in St. John's or any other church
In the Diocese, of Pennsylvania. Witmer
had not received a license from tho
Bishop. Witmer warmly supported Mr.
Richmond in his controversy with tha
Bishop.
Wounded Policeman Out of Hospital
Acting Detective Charles B. Baker, of the
65th street and Woodland' avenue station,
who was shot by George dreen, a negro,
last Saturday night, when he was about
to place Green under arrest, was able to
leave the University hospital today, and
was removed to his homo at 4431 Ludlow
street. Green, who was arrested In Darby
after the shooting, will havo a further
hearing before Magistrate Beaton next
week, when Baker will appear against
him.
State Pays $23,000 to Teachers
City Treasurer McCoach today received
from the Department of Public Instruction
a warrant on the State Treasurer for
S23.000. This sum epresents 110.000
appropriated annually by the Common
wealth to the Teachers' Aid and Annuity
Association, 110.000 to the School of De
sign for Women and 13000 to the Teach
ers' Institute The money was due from
the State July 1, 191B
'fate Given Oath as Sleuths' Gaptain
Acting Captain of Detectives Jamea
Tata today was sworn in as captain of de
tecttvea by the Director of Public Safety.
The eirnony tMk J.Uce in Director Wil
son's office Director Wilson said that he
and t'aptain 'fate were planning t make
several changes to th DeUe Bureau
aa soon aa CjuncH jas4 the loan bilt
AUTO CONCERNS
HERE HARD HIT
BY EMBARGO
Face Losses Aggregating
Hundreds of Thousands
of Dollars
UNABLE TO DELIVER CARS
Freight Congestion Cripples
Filling of Orders Re
lief Promised
Automobile plants In this city, nnd Phil
adelphia brnnrhos of largo nutomobllo
concerns In Detroit nro faced with losses
totaling hundreds of thousands of dollars,
duo to tho crippling Influence of tho
freight embargo which hns been estab
lished by tho Pennsylvania Railroad. This
statement was nmdo today by malingers
of tho various firms.
Tho ombnigo has tied up hundred of
cars of stool nnd ther raw material en
route to plants here, nnd has held up hun
dreds of nutomoblles which have been
ordered by customers In the Philadelphia
district. Tho situation has become so
serious that tho Philadelphia Motor Truck
Association und tho Philadelphia Automo
bllo Ttado Association will hold meetings
nnd search for a remedy.
A ray of hope entcied the Philadelphia
situation today when N' H. Kelly, secre
tary of the Philadelphia Chamber nf
Commerce, received n dispatch from the
chairman of the Interstate Commcico
Commission nnoimclng that tho commis
sion will hold hearings In Washington
next Monday and Tuesday on tho question
of congestion In Kastcrn railroad termi
nals. ,A icpresentatlve will attend tho
hearings from the Chamber of! Commerce,
nnd there alo will bo a laigc delegation
of manufacturers from Philadelphia who
have been hard hit by tho embargo. Tho
Pennsylvania Railroad announced today
that It would1 also send representatives to
the hearings
Co-operation by more than 100 leading
manufacturing concerns In unloading
freight cars has reduced the number of
stalled cars to 0972, there having been
unloaded yesterday l"0.r cars, containing
75,000 tons of freight. W G. Grieves,
president of tho Commercial Traffic Man
agers' Association, which has been lead
ing the campaign to empty the cais, said
today:
"Wo are In the fight now In enrnest nnd
In another 18 hours ixpect to make a big
holo In tho freight blockade."
UNABLE TO DBLtVEU CARS fl
Philadelphia branches of large Detroit
automobile concerns aro unable to deliver
cars which were ordered weeks ago by
Philadelphia customers. It was stated to
day by managers of Philadelphia
branches that the shortage of cars will
run Into the thousands.
The Studebaker Company, the Packard
Motor Car Company, the Overland Motor
Company and other concerns havo been
able to get n few shipments of auto
mobiles through to Philadelphia by com
mandeering flatcnrs. and using covers
made of canvas or boards to protect the
machines from Ice and snow. In order
to hold the flatcars, tho Philadelphia
branch of tho Pnckard Company has
been shipping tho lumber used for covers
back to Detroit ns freight.
"It appears," said Lee J. Eastman, man
ager of tho Philadelphia branch of tho
Packard Company, "that most of the box
cars In the country are tied up In the
eastern freight jam We nro glad enough
to get hold of flat enrs, and, In order to
keep them In our service, wo nro billing
tho board covers back to Detroit ns lum
ber It is an expensive procedure, but wo
are glad to pay tho bill In order to keep
things moving At this minute we are
short five or six tralnloads of automobiles ;
all these cars havo been ordered by cus
tomers In the Philadelphia district, but
because of the congestion wo cannot get
them out of Detroit.
"Thov situation It 'serious from the
standpoint of tho automobile business In
Philadelphia. As president of the Phila
delphia Motor Truck Association, I am
going to call a meeting of the board of
governors this week to Investigate the
situation nnd devise a remedy."
M. F. Hewlett, traffic manager of the
Vim Company, said today that his com
pany was experiencing dllllculty In shlp-
Continurd on Puge Nine, Column Two
L'lTALIA NON MU0VERA'
LA GUERRA AL KAISER
II Giornale d'ltalia Dice Che gli
Interventisti Rimarranno
Disillusi per Questo
Un telegramma da Roma dice che 11
Giornale d'ltalia pubbllca un nrtlcolo dl
fondo evldentemente Isjilrato dalla Con
sulta e da I'alazzo Rraschl, urtleolo net
riuale dice che colore che aspettano una
dlchlarazlone dl guerra da parte dell'Italla
contro la Germanla rimarranno disillusi.
Nel clrcoll polltlcol si crede che questo
artlcolo bla una rlsposta del governo a
nuegll elementl nella Camera che domand
ano appunto la dlchlarazlone dl guerra
alM Germanla, e che su questo punto cer
cano magarl dl provocare la caduta del
Mlnlstero.
H giornale sonninlano dice: "Gil Inter
ventlstl dlmentlcano le orlglnl ed 1 inotivl
della guerra dell'Italla. La Francla ap
prezza plenairuente le raglont che cl hanno
Impedlto e prpbabllmente cl Impedlranno
In seguito dl dlchlarare la guerra alia
Germanla. Nella sltuazlone attuale le
rlsorse mllitarl ed economiche del paese
sono state portate al lore masslmo sforzo
dalla guerra con l'Austrla e dalla necesp
slta' d dlfendere Valona e 1'AIbanla
meridionals.
(Leggere In 7a paglna altre e plu' detta
gllate notlzie sulla guerra, In ltallano.)
Child Falls Into Tub of Hot WiTter
Johnttlartlno, 2 years old, of 1118 South
Bancroft street, was badly burned when
he fell Into a tub of hot water today while
climbing up a chair In the kitchen of his
home. He was removed to St. Agnes' Hos
pital, where physicians say his recovery
la hopeful.
WILSON AND BRANDEIS
Are defended by Zapp and Birsky.
MONTAGUE GLASS'
laugh-proVoklng character in,
TOMORROW'S
EVENING LEDGEB
SENATE, BY 63 TO 14, UPHOLDS
WILSON; ARMED SHIP WARNING
BILL DIES WITHOUT DEBATE
How Ihe Senate Voted
to Uphold President
The following is the vote in tho
Senate on n substitute resolution
offered by Senator Gore, declaring
that if an American is killed by a
German . submarine in an attack
upon an armed merchantman, such
action will be "cause for war with
Germnny":
l'BAS fi8
DIVUOUtATS 10
Ahiirt Otrrmnit
lliinklir.nl fhtpn
Hrckhnm l'helnn
Itrnn-tmiril rittmnn
Chilian . Cnmrrcne
Clnrki- (Ark,) Ittimilrll
CnlhrrHon Kcod
rictrhpr Mhnl rotli
lore, , ShPiMMiril
llnrilunrk hlrIN
IIHrhcnrk .Simmon
llollK Mmllli (Arlf.)
Iliiclic-i .smith ((In.)
MuMInc Mnltli (S. 0.)
Innirs .smith (Mil.)
Johnson (Me.) Stone
.lohnnon (S, I).) Hnnrmon
Krrn 1 honum
l.mip Thaminon
l.re 1 lllmun
l.pU t'litlfruooil
Mnrtln Vnrilmnun
Mnrtlnr WuNh
Msrrn Vt Milium
ptthiniN
Ki:rriii,i('.NN io
llrnnuVeeo lnn
Itiirlrteh Oilier
t'l.irk (U.kO I'nKP
ClirtN i I'olmlfllpr
Colt Smith (.Mlrl..)
Mllllnchiini sirrllne
lit! Pont MniNuorlli
Hording Warren
Loilco Pfk1
Mrl.oiui
NAYS 14
KKI't'llMCANS 13
Itoroli T.nl'ollptt
Clupp Mrt'nmhor
Cummins orrl
1'nll O'Oornuin
(Inlllnger .stirriniin
(rniin.1 Works
Jones
DHMOCHATM 3
Chnmlierlatn O'Rnrnmn
AKSKNTHICS
llrnih Penrose
llrAim Kolilnson
Cnlrnn MHilsliiirjr
Coir Milielv
Krioon .Sutherland
l.en loiwiseml
Mimltt
Smuol nils rirused from inline,
nnd announcement mis ninde that
l.lpi'itt, Penrose, Mihelr nml Suther
land unulcl lime loted nyc If piescnt.
SLUSH PROBERS HALT
TRIAL TO SCAN BOOKS
TESTIFIED DESTROYED
U. S. Attorney at Pittsburgh
Declares Secret Files of Brew
ers Are Now in Hands
of the Court
DEFER CONTEMPT CASES
PITTSDUROH, March 3. The Govern
ment's charge that a preliminary examin
ation of tho seized "confidential" files of
tho United States Urewein' Association
shows that they contain some subpoenaed
records, which It was sworn were destroy
ed, with a request by United States At
torney 13. Lowry Humes for tlmo to
examine tho contents of the eight pack
ing casc3 of documents today, caused a
sudden nnd unexpected pobtponement un
til next Thursday of the contempt pro
ceedings scheduled before Judgo W. H. S.
Thomson, In tho United States District
Court.
IlRtEP DESTrtOVED.
Another cause for postponement, tho
announcement of which caused consider
able merriment In tho courtroom, was the
fact that during tho night a Janlthr In the
Federal Building destroyed Attorney
Humes' brief which he had Intended sub
mitting to the Court this morning.
The four who faced contempt charges
were John P. Gardiner, Philadelphia, pres
ident Pennsylvania Brewers' Assoclatlbn;
Continued on l'nce Two, Column One
ARMED LINERS CALLED
"SNIPERS OF THE SEA"
Dr. Heckscher, Reichstag Lead
er, Protests Against British
"Franctireur" Tactics
BERLIN', March 3.
"Armed merchantmen are the snipers
of the seas," declared Doctor Heckscher,
Reichstag leader, "and the British Ad
miralty, by Instructing merchantmen to
fire on submarines began franctireur war
fare on the seas." ""
Doctor Heckscher. whohe position In the
Reichstag la similar to that held by Sen
ator Stone as chairman of the Senate For
eign Relations Committee, discussed the
German-American controersy over armed
merchantmen at some length today.
"If an officer and 10 men In a hostile
country saw a fc'ioyp of Chilians across
the street armed with, two or three rifles,
the officer couldn't wait until he had
warned the civilians before ordering his
soldiers to shoot," said Doctor Heckscher,
That Is an example of franctlreuring and
the same principle applies on the seas to
merchantmen who snipe at submarines.
"The submarine Is a legal sea weapon,
as Secretary Lansing himself has ad
mitted, and the submarine that attempts
to warn an armed merchantman puts lt
self In great danger, since it Is easily
damaged, ,
"It la said that the United States wants
to settle the submarine question with
Germany before taking up her trade rela
tions with England, holding that questions
affecting human lives should be first. Con
ceding this viewpoint, does Americans
realize how many thousands of women
and children In Germany and Poland lack
nourishment today because America
doesn't Insist on the right to send milk
and food to the German people? Isn't that
a question of lives, too?
"Germany has waited for months for
America o take steps against England's
Illegal blockade, but nothing has bgn ac
complished. Now Germany, finding the
English, Admiralty Instructions aboard, he
Steamship Woodfield ruit act Jierstlf.
Gonnaiiy'a olHclal declaration, is hut tuu
legitimate counterstep any belligerent
would take, against an enemy."
Gore, Author of the
Original Resolution,
Casts Vote With the
Majority
Oklahoman's Substitute De
claring Sinking of Armed
; "Vessel With Americans on
Board Would be "Cause of
War," Also Lost
Scvcrnl Senators, After Voto Is Taken,
Openly Discuss .the International
Situation Borah Attncks Presi
dent's Policy, and Lewis, Demo
cratic Whip, Defends tho Exccutivo
WASHINGTON. -March 3 When
the House Foreign Affairs Committee
Avent into schsion at 2: t5 this after
noon, Administration adherents claim
ed to have a majority favoring report
ing the McLemcrc resolution, wnrning
Americans off armed belligerent ships,
under a plan to have it tabled, as was
the Gore resolution.
This plan, according to House lead
ers who conferred with Secretary Mc
Adoo and Postmaster General Burle
son earlier in the day, will be accepta
ble to President Wilson.
WASHINGTON. March 3 Tho Senate
this afternoon voted non-1 uterfcrenco in
President Wilson's foiolgn negotiations. It
tabled a resolution by Senator Gore, of
Oklahoma, to warn Americans off aimed
merchantmen, by a oto of 08 to n.
Tho otc Itself camo with virtually no
debate, but pent-up Moods of oratory buist
forth a little later, when the Senate theo
leticnlly was discussing a water power
bill. Most of It was a reiteration of doubt
as to exactly wli.it the Senato had done In
Its ote. Republican Senators bitterly
commented on the fact that the Senate
had been "gagged," and no opportunity
given to lot eon the merits of Goie's
measure.
Senator .Tame1? of Kentucky, known as
the President's peisonal representative on
the Senato boor, led the attack on Gore's
resolution Last night tho Administra
tion leadeis fixed upoivtho tablfng of the
resolution n the best nay to force n vote
without a debate. The Senato rules le
qulio Immedlntu voto nnd no discussion
on such a motion Tho voto went through
ns per schedule, but the storm burst lntor,
nevertheless Borah termed the Senate's
action "degradation." Sherman termed it
"cowardice, evasion, cringing." in assert
ing tho United States was "approaching
peace or war."
VOTE COMES ON SUBSTITUTE.
Tho actual vote camo up on a substi
tute resolution by Goie declaring that If
an American Is killed by n German sub
marine In an attack upon an armed mer
chantman, such action will bo cause for
war with Germany.
President Wilson received word of the
Senate voto tabling tho Gore resolution
while tho Cabinet was In session All of
the nlflclnlH expicssed satisfaction over
tho result and believed that It Is a fore
cast of what the House will do when a
ote Is taken In that branch No formal
statement was Issued.
That today's voto was not final action
by tho Senato was strongly Intimated by
many Senatois. It seemed certain that In
case of a threatened break with Germany
Snators will agnln fight for Congressional
action.
Gore throw the Administration's plans
Into chaos by offering his substitute Just
bcfoie tho vote. He said this was done
so that Congress might declare whether
tho United States should go to war If
Amei leans are killed by Germany's new
campaign against armed ships. He de
clared this was the vital question before
Continued on I'nge Kour, Column Two
DEATH CLAMS GIRL WHO
SUFFERED FOR CAREER
Former Frankford Teacher Ex
pires in Buffalo Had Been
Near Starvation
Miss Laura Roeschen, who left a com
fortable home here for the lure of a ca
reer In the arts elsewhere. Is dead. Her
mother and sister, who had gone to
Buffalo, N. Y , when they learned two
montln ago that the young woman had
been found dying of starvation and ex
posure there, brought her body home last
night.
Miss Roeschen. who was 25 years old,
was formerly a teacher In the Henry W.
Lawton School, Benner and Dltman streets,
Frankford Her home was In Lawndale,
where, at G322 Woodtawn avenue, her
mother now lives. The girl had always
been dissatisfied with school teaching She
longed for a career In either music or
literature, and she came to believe that
to succeed ut either she must seek In
spiration away from home.
She thought she would be able to work
better alone in strange cities, away from
her family and old associations. She had
read much In the biographies of the fa
mous, and got the Impression, that they
all lived and dreamed their high thoughts
In attics, and advanced more rapidly In
bolltude and a measure of privation.
She disappeared last autumn. Her family
got no trace of her for four months. Then
a message came from the Buffalo police
on December 31, that Miss Roeschen was
found In a dying condition. She had too
little clothing to protect her from the cold
and she had had almost nothing to eat
for a week.
SLACKER AND SUPERMAN
England's great Contrasts, Ex
plained by
ELLEN ADAIR
lhr third special article in
' . iKAiinnnAino
lymunuu n a
SVENING LEDGER
QUICK
lmiiNCII MINISTRY DENIES SINKING OF CRUISERS
V
I'AIUS, Moich 8,-Tho Mlnistiy of Mai inc. today issued an offi
cial ttciilcl of tlio icpoit that Oeinmn submarines have sunk French
milsora off llnvie.
PATROL ENGAGEMENTS ON THE RIVER DVINA
BERLIN, Mnich 3. "On the Dueunbuig River (Dvlua), ca3t of
Frhiflriclistndt, natiol engagements occuned," the War Office re
ported. "Theie were siiullai engagements ou the Scicth-Sclilicuara
uoiil."
RED CROSS HERE SENDS SUPPLIES TO WAR VICTIMS
Announcement was made todny by the Philadelphia. Branch of the Amer
ican Red Cross, of which Mrs. Cliarlemagno Tower Is piesltlont, that 11 cases
of hospital supplies for wounded soldiers have been sent to tho warring1 coun
tries durlne; the last thico months. Throe havo been Hcnt lo Fiance, threo to
Germany and one each to England, Russia, Belgium, Serbia and Poland. At
RIic meeting- today nt Mrs. Tower house, 1313 Locust street, 100 society women
worked all morning counting, cuttlnc; nnd wrapping bandages.
BILL TO IMPROVE PUGET SOUND NAVY YARD FAVORED
WASHINGTON, Mnrch 3. The Senate Naval Affairs Committee today unani
mously leportcd a ?2,OG5.000 appropriation to equip tho Paget Sound Navy
Yard for battleship construction.
MAYOR SMITH PLANS TURN AT GOLF AT AIKEN, S. C.
Mayor Smith today completed arrangements for a short vacation from tha
cares of office. He will leave the city next Wednesday for Aiken, S. C, where
bo will spend a few das In open-air exercise. The golf course nt Aiken Is noted
for Its excellence, and the Mayor plans spending much of his tlmo golfing,
FRENCH AIR SQUADRON SHELLS SMYRNA FORTS
PARIS, March 3. A squadron of French aeroplanes from Salonlcn. has
bombarded tho Turkish forts and army camps aiound Smyrna, It was announced
today by tho "War Office. Tho following official communique was given out:
"It Is stated by the General Stnff that a squadron of French aeroplanes at
Salonica was taken on hoard tho transports Detsarmauce, Hot and Macronlsse
and afterward bombarded the cantonments nnd dofonslvo works of tho Turks
at Bournoba (Burna Had) nnd Bordcrio, In the ilclnlty of Smyrna. The aviators
travorscd a distance of 350 miles while In tho air."
MYSTERIOUS SHIP OFF COAST; MAY BE RAIDER
NEW YORK, Mnich 3. Nows of a mysterious ship, believed to be a German
raider,, encountered off the Virginia Capes, was brought to this poit'today by
Captain Munkovltz, of tho Bull Insular liner Grayson, from Porio Rico. Early
yesterday Munkovltz, ns he was off Hampton Roads.'saw two rnystcrfousvMte
lights. They apparently wore signaling, and every tlmo ho changed his course
the lights flashed. Tho captain saw no vessel, but on the previous voyage of
tho Grayson, ho Bald, a mysterious vessel crossed his hows and immediately
signaled with a Hashing light In Morse to another light.
PRESIDENT NAMES AMBASSADOR TO CHILI
WASHINGTON, March 2. Joseph H. Shea, of Seymour, lnd was nomi
nated today for" Ambassador to Chill, to succeed Henry P. Fletcher, who goes
to Mexico. He Is a member of the Supremo' Court of Indiana.
TWO ZEPPELINS REPORTED WRECKED
AMSTERDAM, March 3. Two German Zeppelins are reported to have been
wrecked whllo engaged on a military enterprise. "One of the Zeppelins, return
ing from the front, evidently was lilt by enemy artillery," said tho dispatch. "It
fell at Ezhezce, damaging a house and injuring IS children. Another fell at
MalsnauU. The debris was loaded on a train bound for Cologne."
$1,433,194.80 PAID TO CITY IN FEBRUARY
Tax receipts during February amounted to $1,433,194.80, according to tho
report of Receiver of Taxes W. Freeland Kendrlck. This Included $549,781.35
paid nn nccount of city taxes, $281,808.34 school taxes, $247,743.19 water rents
for the current year and $100,295.97 on delinquent city and $72,337.90 on
school taxes.
SCANDINAVIAN NATIONS TO UNITE FOR DEFENSE
COPENHAGEN, March 3. An Important conference, which will have a
far-reaching effect upon tho future policies of tho Scandinavian Governments,
will bo held here on March 9 and 10. Thoso taking part will be tho Prima
Ministers and Foreign Ministers of Norway, Sweden and Denmatk. The ques
tions of neutrality and Interference with Scandinavian trade and shipping by
the war will be dealt with exhaustively. It Is reported that the three Powers
will enter Into a ngreement by which they will act in concert if threatened In
the future.
DESTRUCTION OF BRITISH DESTROYER REVEALED
NEW YORK. March 3. Word has reached New York that the British de
stroyer Viking has been blown up. All of tho olllcers and crow are believed to
have been lost, and tho news of the vessel's loss came In a letter to relatives of
Commander Thomas Christopher Williams, who went down with his ship. Tho
Viking, according to the letter that the commander's relatives here received, was
blown up by a mine on January 29. No previous Intimation that disaster had
overtaken this destrojer has como from the war zone, and to tho rigid British
censorship is attributed the fact that this naval loss has not been made known
publicly.
NEW MINE FIELD ADRIFT OFF SWEDISH COAST
LONDON, March 3. A Stockholm dispatch to the Morning Post says that,
according to a message from Karlskiona, Sweden, a whole mine field of several
hundred mines Is drifting from the north, presumably having been set adrift by
the ice and wind. The message adds thut explosions nre occurring hourly, and
that navigation In the neighborhood of the Swedish Islands Is perilqus.
TAMMANY TO BOOM GERARD FOR GOVERNOR
SYRACUSE, March 3, As the result of informal conferences between Tam
many Leader Charles F. Murphy and Democratic leaders from up-State, while)
the unofficial State convention was In progress -here, James W. Gerard, wliopj,
President Wilson appointed Ambassador to Germany, is looming large on the
Democratic horizon as a possible prospective standard bearer In the gubernatorial
fight. According to reports received from abroad. Ambassador Gerards return)
to the country Is expected before long. It has also been reported that ho is to,
make speeches for President Wilson throughout the country in the national
campaign.
GERMAN TOBACCO TAX SHOWS DRASTIC INCREASES
BERLIN, March 3. Tho Government's, tobacco Jilll, published toda.. Is un
signed to raise about 160,000.000 marks new revenue. The' new schedules snow
heavy Increases In customs and excise taxes. The tariff on unworked leaves be
comes 130 mark? per metric hundredweight and 66 ipr cent, ad valorem, as
compared with 85 marks and 40 per cent, ad valorem. Th duty on chewing
tobacco and snuff is doubled. Worked leaves will pay 280 marks specific duty and
65 per cent- ad valorem, cigarettes. 1500 marks per metric hundredweight t'ignrtf
will pay tho same ad valorem duty as leaves. The tax on cigars, has been imfs4
to 700 marks per metric hundredweight.
FRENCH STEAMSHIP SUNIi BY SUBMARINE
BORDEAUX, Marofa 3. fl"hJ Iftreneh steamship laMmo t ?Mrta to lv
been sunk by a German submarine auUwei; of the island of Dj-eu, Six Bialp(
of the crew are' missing. Tho lAkme was a ve-jsel pt Jiff ton art haw J
from Dunkirk
NEWS
l
4 fl -r.'Sja&affiJl1l'lMhaiBliBMJBWHlHBB
T- ,-V -ftsgipraAillMllillliW "!MHHffiBBBBgMMIM'MaH'MMBHMaaMBWBMatfM''BH'BWaB ;--
