-
ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
THIHTV.SKVKNTK YEAR.
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO.FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1916,
Itolly by Otrrier or Mall, 8o
ft Month. Rliutlft Copte. 6a
CITY
EDITION
pnPMMT I
UUIIL iiviiiviniLu
THAT PRESIDENT
WANTS IRs HOT
DEBUTE FOLLOWS
THE WEATHER
AVKATIIEK I'OltFl'Asr.
Iichver, March 2. Xt'W .Mexico:
Friday generally fair, colder south
west port km; Saturday fair.
at
LOCAL WEAT1IEK Ill.TOIir.
For twenty-four .hours, ending
6 p. ni. yesterday.
.Maximum tempt fat u re, 51 de
fii'H; minimum, 34 degrees; lunge,
1" degrees; temperature at 6 p. m.,
II degrees; iiurtli west wind; purtly
cloudy.
CITY UAXK (TdKAJUXUS.
Yesterday
$ti3, 235.70.
Armed Ship Issue Blazes Up j;;.1;
n i I n i It i
II! uvnuiv v,,wv,.,.., . r.,,nt Interest
ired Senator Gore, "And
many traitors of that class In
1 think uny American plac-
above
Argument Likes r .ivfi Uver 0l"'s ls 11 mui(ir- iuH1 t(i,,r' ' ui
Mlbiuiiuii larvc-a i lavt, uvw n)any of ()iat Tu,w ,Wo tj.)Mig
Foreign Policy of Nation.
MINERS' AKUMENT IS
' FACING A DEADLOCK
IRY HOMNN JOURNAL RRtXlAl. LIARtD WIRi
New York, March A deadlock
exists In the negotiations between the
bituminous miners anil operators of
western Pennsylvania, Ohio,. Indiana
and Illinois, over the amount of the
! increase in wanes to he allowed the
soft coal miners of those state. The
situation stands where It did yesterday
when the operators refused to agree
upon a three cents a ton Increase and
the miners voted down a oposal of
a one cent a ton advance.
U was said that the Illinois' coal
companies were still opposed to grant
ing any increase in the tonnage rate
of miners so long as the differential of
2 1-2 cents exists between the Illinois
land Indiana cost of production.
President John P. White of
'miners' union said he felt that a
tlemeiit was mar at hand.
GERMANS AGI
ATTACK VERDUN
WITH GREATEST
POSSIBLE EUR!
the
set-
are equally offensive, disloyal and rep
rehensible. "J an not doubt thai American ship
owners whose ships uiv flyliiK the al
lies' flas would like o have the Tint
ed States police and protect their ves
sels plying to European ports. 1 do
not doubt that the buyers and brokers
of the $,".00,000,000 allies' bonds sold
in the country rejoice to have the
United Slates underwrite their invest
ment. I have no more sympathy with
Ued
ml.
Points lit h,1 af.lftS fit Un-ediand.
. -r i.,.i, Lt, ii.,...,i niu;
"I would like to ask a ituestion,"
said Senator llorah, republican, of
Idaho. "Suppose we pass the Oore
resolution as drawn, and suppose, asj
llmo proceeds, Bonn submarine de-j
stroys a ship and 100 lives, would the i
senator from Oklahoma be willing to
JOHN SHARP WILLIAMS
WARMLY DEFENDS WILSON
Mississippi Senator Makes
Speedl On Americanism and them than I have with any hyphena
' , American who Is disloyal to Ins udc
n i i r" - II 1 I ...
roinis uui ranacies u
position to Executive,
ar MOKNINa JOURNM CIL UUII WIRtt
Washington. March 2. The armed
ship Issues suddenly blared up In the
TVhe" "S,. Tnh S?..!1" L"
JUDGE WOULD PROTECT
FOOL AND HIS .MONEY
lir MORN INC JOURNAL SPECIAL LUIID Wll
San Francisco, March 2. Airs. Cut
rie Clirlstenscn of Melrose, four times
married, was sentenced today to one
year in the county jail fi r using tie
mails to defraud prospective hus
bands. It was aliened she obtained
about $.1,000. When sentenced she
fainted and was carried from court.
"I have no sympathy with these
long range courtships," Judge Maurice
T, Dnoling said, in passing sentence
in the federal district court, "but a
fool and his money must not bo
purled."
Infantry Assaults Are Repuls
ed With Fearful Losses, Ac- ,.,
cording to French Report
of New Battle,
ARTILLERY FIRE IS
GROWING IN INTENSITY
Teutons Claim to Have Taken ttH'lllH'
The Moewe Falls
Into Clutches of
British Cruiser
101 MORNIM4 JOURNAL, RRI.AL LIAftO WlRI
lluenys Aires. March !.'.-- Press dis
patches from .Montevideo say that a
steamer iirrlvlng from Europe Inter,
eepted near the coast of Ihazil a wire
lesM message stating that l'.ritlsh
cruisers had captured the German
auxiliary cruiser Moewe. The Mevc.
It In said, was taken to the Island of
Trinidad by lier raptors.
There Is some doubt, however, ns In
thi Identity of the (lermau vessel re
ported to have been captured. An
other version of the account is thai
the vessel in question Isflhe ticriuan
cruiser Hooti.
The news relative to the Moewe was
Mnniunicated to the Uruguayan
newspaper men by the commander of
the American steamer Santa liar ha ra
and the Swedish steamer Axel-John-son,
under a promise that the news
should not be published. The com
manders of the steamers dec lined also
that the French and I'.ritish warships
which were were exercising a surveil
lance In the Atlantic had been in
creased with the purpose of running
down suspected warships. The com-
i landers declined to give any turtlioi
PRESIDENT WILSON NOW
ASSURED OF VICTORY III
T
I
o
UPHOLD AMERICAN RIGHTS
Four Times as Much Ground; AER0PLANE ELOPEMENT
as was Lost During Joffres
Drive Last Year,
COMES TO SORRY END
Senator (lore, democrat, and author of
a resolution to warn Americans off
belligerent vessels, repeated what he
characterized as a report that Presi
dent Wilson had told certain congress,
leaders that war between the United
Slates and Germany "might not be
ungrateful and might result in ad
vancing civilization by bringing about
the end of the European war by mid
summer." Chairman Stone of the foreign rela
tions committee emphatically denied
that the president had cvor expressed
any such sentiment in his hearing and
Senator James, another administration
leader, demanded to know why Sena
tor 0 ore had not .sought lo confirm
the report from the president himself.
Williams Defends lYe.sidenl.
Senator John Sharp Williams demo
crat, staunchly uefended the president.
"The time has come for you
Mardl (.ras Carnival On.
New Orleans, March 2. New Or
leans' 1910 inardi uras carnival was
eminent to demand reparation for: opened tonight with an illuminated
their Ions." j pageant of the Knight of Momus, in
.uy jiuigmeui is, .-cnuior imir re- Wnirh the mytnicai story or ' I'luoo-; ejon the (lermau big guns have bee i
plied, "that the warning would serve; ebio, the tale of n Marine!!" was por-1 ,.iV,. around Douaunioni the Ten'
the purpose of inducing American clti-; trayed in elaborately decorated floats ;, ;', ,(.,! several Inlanlrv attacks
eiis ijoi 10 nuuiii K on urmeu snips , uearing cnaracters in costume. i in1 : exlri Ine violence These
ami that there would be no danger of I parade was followed by the Momus l l,. .... .,, . ffiet. l..el ir,.M u-..r.
IV UOIIHIU JOu,NAL irtCIAL LtACIO WIRI)
Ttie iiermans hae resumed their;
lieuvy' offensive in the region of Ver-1
dun, with the French everywhere
strongly opposing it. While over (
most or the front from
the Meuse down Into tin
IRV UORNtNO JOURNAL R'fCIA'. IIAIIO VVIRII
Han Francisco, March 2. The fir..t
recorded elopment lii an aeroplane
encountered its second smash today
"hen Arthur i"Art") Smith, aviator
filed suit for divorce from Ills wile
who was Aimee four of Fort Wayne,
tin4 east ot'i'nd. Ho charged cruelty and that
Woevre If - 1 his wife's affections were elsewhere.
trouble being thus eneountervd." i ball. The carnival
i President Wilson, at a conference j Tuesday nisht.
with congress leaders today, b under-!
stood to have said that following our
the notes of the United Slates govern
ment diplomatic relations might be'
broken off with u nation causing th
death of an American in disregard ot j
international law, and that he had i
been informed breaking off of diplo-j
niatic relations might precipitate war. i
While no official statement was'
given out an authoritative account was'
obtained of what has happened at the
will be concluded
the
put
fire
various conferences between tin' prcs-;
and i('''nt- iuul ""' members f ll'e senate,
me," said Senator Williams, "lo act on,""" """' ' . ,. ., .,. i
.... , , Prilnciit s Position. i
of anv action of the president, but he-! Tie president declared, it was si.jd,
cause of what he has been compelled ln '1 l" w'"'n Americans to keep olf; (
to cunfront because of constant nag- armed ships of belligerent nations' P-imQ w S,Ct
ir his- : -1
1 1 it n i ii ii ii rinnT
m umrr punirr
iu imniL uiiuiuL ,
0 CANDIDATES'
ging, constant querying and o
expression of opinion in favor
iii'gutiations of a foreign power
against our ov n.
" ev"'
it :Vit
if I lit-
insl.iot would ne in encci acKiiowieugiug .ins
of the tificatioii for attacks mi such ships.;
as J1e colli' liocu inai oill' fir war riie-
portcd by the nation and congress he;
Thni.. ti.if.U In tin. Iiitlirv of llllgllt I111U It IllipoSSIDll! BO 10 SI eel :
all peoples, all ndiiiinlstrntions, all the policies of the government that1
T-nPenliiCirVotrielo iht- partnlg i'"- 'n """ '"U ":
ways, when each much stand involved with other nations. j
Am held b.. nuiv for fllnl uhiell be In reply 10 questions 111 one r . I Hie
thinks to be brave, just and patriotic, conferences, the president is under-.
That time, I think, has conic, for you 'ood lo have said that following out
and for me concerning the proposition the notes of Die United Steles govern
that now faces us." ment diplomatic relations might be
"The time has come," continued broken off with a nation which caused
Senator Williams, "when the question the death ol American citizens In (US
Hales itself in this wav: 'Shall T ac- regard of international law and the,
claim America first or shall I acclaim stand of the fnted States,
lieiitschland Uber Alles'." i The president added, It was said,
"I have the highest contempt format he had been Informed from ccr-
one who would inject politics in this tain sources that the breaking off of j
.situation. Politicians lookimr for a diplomatic relations might precipitate
for Next Tues
day; Wilson and Marshal
Democratic Nominees; Fair
bnnks Republican .Choice,
racial vote of some kind to be gained
from thi.i are not only poor Ameri
cans, but poor politicians.
o Itoom for Factions.
"The moment a factional element
pfirth Ipating In the government of the
United States shall implant in them
selves the idea of pleasing a racial el
ement, that moment they will consoli
date against them every other radical
i lenient and all that great element of
citizens who are just Americans, with
out frill, without politics and without
hyphens or anything else.
"The initiative in foreign relations
lies with the executive and congress
ought not to attempt to assume the
Initiative.
"Through resolutions and in speech
es and whispeiH, the chief magistrate
has been prodded and nagged and
dared. To do what? to surrender the
initiative the constitution places with
hint and let congress take the lead in
foreign relations. He has picked up
Uie gauntlet and said:
"'If the patriotism of congress
behind me, let's find it out, and it it is
not behind, let's find that out.'
No New Doctrine- Offered. '
The president has offered no new
war. iMi- said that he could not cer
tainly predict what might follow, but
that despite ills earnest efforts to
keen the United States out of war, he
must uphold the rights of
citizens to the freedom of the seas.
Might, Shorten Win.
: The president was said to have been
asked at one of tin; conferences what
effect the entrance of the United
States into the war would have. He
is understood to hae replied that it
might shorten it.
It was denied in well-informed quar
tern that the president had any inten-j
tion of conveying the impression that!
he desired tile United States to enter
war in order lo shorten it, or lor anyj
other reason.
On the eonjrary, he Is said lo have,
urged in the most vigorous possible j
manner his desire and hope that thet
United Slates might keep out of the,
war.
Far from desiring war or threaten-i
Inir it. it was said, the president has!
. pointed out to congressional tenners ;
Rr MORNiNO JOURNAL RPECIA LEASED IRt
Indianapolis. Manh Indiana
w ill set the machinery of the presi
jdetuial campaign of II' 10 in motion
i when on March 7 the voters of the
, stale will express their preference for
i candidates for president and vice
, president. Wood row Wilson and
j Thomas li. Marshall are the candi-
fl.-ites: on tile tieiiiiierntie ticket and
Churles W. Falrhuiiku on the renub-! I"""i
iiejin 'o candidate filed for IllCt
'nomination of vice president on thclMU,,h vessels,
; republican ticket. The primary will
! not only be the first in the country
jthis year but ulso the first ever held
American!"1 ' . o ,,..,,..,. ....
i candidates the voters will have an op
portunity to vote for candidates for
j United States senator, governor and
'congress in the thirteen congression
al districts, candidate for the general
assembly, circuit and superior Judges,
prosecuting attorneys, county offic
ials, delegates to the state convention,
and precinct committeemen. If no
candidate for senator or governor re
ceives a majority of votes at th pri
mary the contest then goes to the
, down bv the French troops whose
'decimated the enemy ranks.'
I.e Mori Homme, the Cote du Poivi e
and the Uouaumont sector parti' u
, larly have suffered heavy lionilmrd
, incuts. Northeast of SI. Mihiel the
French guns have been worked el'--ifcelively
against the Herman posi
tions. In Aslace, in the region of
seppois a Heavy uriiiicry unci pas
been ill progress.
I'.rillsh lictakc Trenches.
Tin1 I'.ritish along the Ypies I'oin
Ines canal have reversed the victory
gained over them by the Hermans
February 1 I by retaking the M)0 yard;
, of trenches which the Hermans cap
1 tilled at that time. The (iermuiis
nunc galleries in tile trendies wen
! destroyed and four officers and 17iil
; men were taken prisoner. I
tion French guns have destroyed a!
; Herman work in the region of ileuv-j
raignes which lies between the Soinme,
j and l ise rivers. ;
i The sltt'ution rrP)aiiiN iinehniwrt i
i on the l;ussian tiVii A nsi ro-Italian I
! Ironls. In Asia the Russians ale
.keeping- up their strong ol'fcliHlv-'
against the Turks. j
, Nothing; di finite has transpired with I
j regard to the report that the (ierma i
Icommerc" raider Moewe had been
j captured and taken into Trinidad by
i I'.ritish cruisers. A dispatch from
; Trinidad says nothing is known there
j concerning- the Moewe,
I The liritish admiralty has mad--
its iiiHtruellons to armed mer
chantmen. Armament Is supplied to
the instructions say,
"solely for the purpose of resenting at
tack by an a,iiied enemy vessel and
must not be used for any other pur
pose whatsoever."
i Smith and Miss four's elopement
! Was nlaricil ,y the collapse ol his
! machine and both were badlj hurt,
The) were married at Hillsdale, Ind..
Illl October. I It 111,. The bride was ill .1
'hospital cot ami Smith sat In a wlo-el
(hair. He sailed today lor Japan.
GORE RESOLUTION TO BE CALLED
UP IN SENATE TODAY; DEFEAT OF
MEASURE FOREGONE CONCLUSION
Historic Debate Takes Place in Upper House; Oklahoma
Senator Makes Sensational Intimation That Chief Ex-''
ecutive Wants War With Germany; Prompt Denial Is
Issued From White House; Stone Repudiates Alleged
Conversation With President; John Sharp' Williams, Just
Up From Sick Bed, Makes One of the Greatest Speeches
of His Life in Defense of Administration Policy and in
Advocacy of Pure Americanism.
i
TYPHUS AGAIN
IS THREATENING
j (By Morning Journal Sjwcial Leaftd Wire.)
; vv aiungion, March 2 .--Out of uinbly the
-day's developments In President Wil
son's fight with congress, crowded to
the utmost with clement of the sen-!
linn
turn that
situation,
of drantatio
tile aiiminlstra-
EL PASO PEOPLE 5
"ad,"j Third Case Appears and lsV"rin.
most serious
el been given to the
llchlnd the curtain
events which showed the actual steps
In the president's fight for defeat of
the anli-iiitininlMti-iitl (ill fiiunliil Inttu
senate tonight .....I ,.,.. 1.illii ,1... ,,
I , ...,...,., , w, rt-n t iineiiL
pledges of enough votes-spread abroad that. 11 majority of con-
, Senator ( lore's gri ss Is opposi d to his federation pol
Americans otfi'cy t ho administration supporters took
j drastic steps today to carry out the
I president' demand for a record vote,
j Faced by the possibility of Indefln-
He delay in the house they transferred
the fight to the Donate. After hav
! Ing put the senate majority on record,
ithe fight will lie carried buck to the-
other side of Hie capltol, President
Wilson again today made it plain to
Chiilrman Flood of Hie foreign affairs
committee that he wauled one of the
warning resolutions brought out of
tho committee for a vote und defeat
1 .1,1,... tl,.. .....i-l I. u I... I I ill till bouse. Hot llttef tin. citmutllteA
Ul'IVe tO ClCcin UP CltV and uiP"'t to the president's determl- liad deliberated moat of tho day on
c J ,.. , a .1...1.. what fm-lti Mlieti II .r.uotiitlin mIiOiiI,!
iiii'iiiii i . it'll- in iiiciuttiin iiicii' - . ".-......., i,
(lights oil Vlie hUh seas, and Senator "Ve, If adjourned without notion ur,
JJohn Sharp II Hums, just from u sick j 1 tomorrow afternoon. The prem
bed, delivered a w ithering deuuuela-1 dent was Informed that on a canvas
lllcii of tho president's, opponents. The
n n, lie adjourned until tomorrow at II
o'clock, when the administration lead
ers plan lo bring up the Hore resolu
tion and table II, disposing of II final
ly, as an embarrassment to the presi
dent In his conduct of diplomatic ne
gotiations with (lei tniinv . They have
found that not more than jwcht.v
thrce votes can be mustered mgaliiHt
them, in the house, where the presi-
dent was faced with further delay, the
promise of administration victory in
ii... ........... ..i...... i i.i ....
here, said, however, that the prtmo ' ' ! 1 ... "i iinois "p
Rational and dr.iniatli
tioll fill-ecu ill lh,.
I
emerged wit
tn kill, once and lei- u
resolution to warn
tinned ships of the Kuioncan belliger
ents and demonstrate that congress
flands behind the president In Ills ne
gotiations with ticrniaiiy.
Action in the senate, It is believed.
(ill he followed promptly by stifling
sentiment in the house against Hie
'president's foreign policy.
In one of the greatest hoil-piil'lisaii
debates Hie senate lias seen ln years.
inian Stone, of the foreign rcla-
ii, ..... ..........ni..,. i i...
riUIIIUUV IbUlclltJU UUIieicll 111 '"'coin wnu ttie president, senator.
Juarez Likely,-
IRT WORIllNa JU,,RNAL RPIClAL LIAMD WIRI)
i;i Paso, Tex., March .--li ('. U.
Pearee, senior surgeon of the I lilted
Stales public health service, was ex
pected here tonight to Investigate con
ditions on the border which are said
to threaten an Invasion of typhus and
other diseases from Mexico.
A new case of typhus was discov
ered here today, making a total of
three now- isolated. All are Mexicans.
Dr. John W. Tappan. health officer
attached to the Immigration service
(iKILMAX .TT. kS AUK
UKNKWKD WITH VHI.KX F.
that war would be more likely to come
state convention which will be held
subsequently. '
kern Unopposed.
John W. Kern will have no opposi-!
tion aM the democratic candidate for'
senator in the primary. There arc
lhre,. candidates on the republican
ticket, viz: James E, Watson, former,
member of congress; Harry S. New,;
for manv years Indiana's member of
Paris, March 2 fl:3fi p. m.) Ger
man attacks of gi.-at violence, both
artillery and infantry, have been re
sumed to tlie north of Verdun. Tho
official statement issued by tin? French
war office tonight says that furious ),oalth
infantry assaults have been repulsed
by tin? French troops, "whose flro
decimated tho ranks of enemy."
lllUTISH
lli: AITt KF.
TIIKM JIi:s IN
ItKM.Il M
the republican nattonul
if the United States did not f o"ow t Jie , jimJ Artnur ,MnimI1
established rules of international law
and should begin attempting to changr
ator.
There
.1, I n.. ... J US rUieS-ilB 1L IOUIV Ol .ilj."h
doctrine The proposition of armed t,ons whi,,h ,,avp arisen Hilu;(. ,e out-1
its rules as a result of varying ''on(li-! democratic
an
two
committee, I
u state sen-
merchantmen Is a principle taken from ;k ()(. (ho wor,(1 ,var.
the war with Spain. ' i Minority Leader Mann
m-ntitwi i iiotiom uriiiin;u uiu fiien-
idi-nt's conduct of Mexican affairs as a
iaiin went 10 me
White House at 5 o'clock and con-
ik,. i,,i.u i i.i, inr an nour.
sirong man turning from the wrath of T ,.,,. ,, ,iii,wl , i u As h.- left.
an impotent child. In the present sit- mldi'M Wilson sent for Secretary
nation he said he was faced by tho j
menace of a treat self-reliant import-: b" .
"''senator-Gore defended his reHolu-! MURDER AND ROBBERY
mm.
"In my Judgment any American
Placing Hermany's interests above
those of the United States is a tral-
I.ondoti, March (1:44 p- m ) The
Hritish official stateini.-nt i.-ihuod to
day on the fighting in the western
zone says:
"We reeaptuicd the trenches at the
I Pluff of the Ypres (-'omines canal--1
which were lost February 14, und I
also captured a small salient in the
candidates on t he ; lierman line."
ticket, seeking the notui-, Herman mine gain-ries in the cap-
i nation for governor. John A. M.jT.ured trenches were oesirojeo. vie
i Adair. rcpr(;sentative In congress from have taken 180 prisoiiet s, Including
the Kighth district, and Leonard li. i four officers.
j dure are conducting an interesting)
j campaign. A lively fight is being: The capture of mju yards of P.ritisli
, waged for (lie republican nomination ! positions southeast of Ypres after
for governor by James P. Goodrich, j heavy artillery hombardinents, was
; Indiana's member of the republican j claimed in the Herman official slate,
'national committee; Warren T. Mc-iu.nt f February 1"' which adde.l
Cray, a farmer and stock raiser, nmti(niit H m.-i jorit v of the defenders of
danger was from smallpox. Four Mex
icans from the interior of t'hihiinhtia,
ione of them a baby eight weeks obi,
Svvas turned back at tho International
bridge today becaiihe they were suffer
ing from smallpox, one hundred and
eighty other Mexicans also were re
fused admittance, and the border was
guarded tonight to prevent thcin from
stealing Into this country.
Mayor Tom Lea, Andres Harcla,
Mexican consul here, and a number of
officers, met Mayor M. M.
Prleto, of Juarez, and oilier Mexican
officials here this afternoon, in a con
ference to provide for co-operation In
preventing the spread of the disease.
Consul Harcla proposed a detention
camp to be established below Juarez,
by Mexican authorities, who would
disinfect all persons from districts in
.Mexico where i onlaglous or infectious
diseases exist, but he made the condi
tion that such persons be admitte, to
this (iinnlrv alter such disinfection,
vi'hleh was not accepted.
f r. Pearee probably will pal ticipale
in another conference tomorrow at
which it is planned to propose that
American and Mexican off icin Is get to
gether anil clean up both this city and
Juarez at once.
THREE INDICTED
MERELY A MISTAKE
The Day in Congress
Amert-
armtd
SKNATK.
Lcbatcd proposals; to w arn
'ans from taking passage on
tneivhantmen.
liraiiib-ls investigation continued.
Agricultural committee continued
sisal investigation.
Rejected the Cummins amendment
to Hie Shields water power bill which
would have required the government
'" pay for water power projects taken
Vf,r at the expiration of leases.
Lbadcrx agreed in conference to
"ring to n vote tomorrow
table Senator Hore's resolution
winning Americans off armed ships.
Adjourned at 5:4ft p. m. to II a. in.
r ridav.
ICV HORNINV JOURNAL RMCIAL LRARID WIRII
F.I Paso. Man h -. The killing or
Charlie L. Chee, a well-known Chinese
hotel proprietor, by Carranza soldiers
at .limine.. Chihuahua, last Friday,
was the tesnlt of a raid by the Mexi-
afilrlfnl'H ..ii ('bee's horse corral, ac-ison
cording to Americans who readied the vice picioeoi
iu,i.iii. I.. Hue from the interior of M' X- : delegates are
Thm,' Americans. Heorge M. Charles W. Fairbanks
Henderson, of San Antonio. Tex.: John 'names are l"-f,
McClure and .1. K. Cpig.r. were at, Louis national
'hee s hotel at the lime. (Hie of them accounl .
i,... ..i ii,.,i.-.,, was beaten: vidtng that Hn
by some of the soldiers, and all three
were Imprisoned over night by the
Cananza soldiers, but were released
the following morning by
Hen. Luis Gutierrez, the n
chief of Cllihlilillllll. who
uiou",i - , , . , . ...
that III,' snooioiK 01 ' 11
Bi lilt on tin
mistake. C,
desire to attack A inerica lis, particu
larly, Hiilieri-z .-xplaincd.
Judge Qiiiuey Adams Myers, former
member of the supreme court.
The republican state convention
will be held April 5 and (i: tile deino-
cralic, April and the progressive,
Miiv 24. At these conventions ddc-i
....I..., I., ili. ...,((', in. I ,-oiit-,.nt Innu u-ill '
he selected and under the provision Sayvillc.i
of tlie primary law Hie democratic
delegates are lioniid to support WH-
ainl Marshall for president and
the P.ritlsh trenches were killed.
FOR ATTEMPTED
(FILM X . AIXS 14)1 It ,
timks .i!i:vti:h than hifncii;
While
hound
iioisi:.
r'f reign affairs committee called to.
mert to consider McLemore res'iln-'
""ii to warn Americans off armed
li I r. '
Naval eiill-itnittc.' i-iinlinni.il nationai
f'llse hejirlnL'-
, foreign affairs comniiH-'e aft.-r(
!J'S('i'S.slii-4 resolutions to warn Amer
icny ,.ff armed sliips adjourned with-;
' action. i
Artnv inereasf liill completed by ; th
il
Ilia Adlici-ciMs Caplnred.
San Antonio. Texas. .March Cap
ture of a party "f I'iaz adherents who
had been st-nt to Puerto Angel, i ax
aca. to await the arrival of (hit- chief,
was announced today In an official
consular dispatch which indi-ate-l
that Aaxaca (,,l!,.vvers of Felix I'ciz
expected him to begin his campaign
against the de facto government from
vve.-l c-'ii'-t. lll-iteail el ii-'mii inr
Berlin, March (by U'lrcless to1,
The iverseas News ageii-;
sjiid todfn-:
"Summarizing the present situation;
on tlie western front around Verdun,
,1,,, ,,i,iiiili.-,. i ortosponnonis in uie inmi oeeiaic
, t.. that bet ween February " and March
is long as their 1 a total of 170 s'lllare kilometers of
terrain was gatneii ov tnn in-rmans,
this being lour tinu as much as the
French won m their (titire offensive
In the Champagne last fall.
"The taking of this ground north
and east of Verdun has shortened the
Herman range radius of action from
the north to the southeast bv- several
kilometers.
"The German tin In s tire consistent
ly to evade the po.-dbilities of L,real
loss of human life, and therefore, to
avoid dii'-ct stormm:; and replace it
by the collaboration of all arms. The
(onseiiuenee Is that 1 tic entile advance
consisted of a series of tidal wav'S.
the past few
f gains.
of the supreme and appellat The correspondents again empha-
foui- delegates at large, two size the fad that all the gains were
ntial ( lectors at large, ynd two obtained by losses which were lompul-
coi'tnigeiit presidential Hectors at atlvely insignificant,''
large. The state conventions also.
adopt the party platforms. Manslaughter erdict Uel ui-ncd.
Cleveland. Ohio. March 1'. Louis
JURY
mm
confident tonight of similar action
there.
Ilcilln ScI.cm Advantage.
While the senate" delated there
canio news to the slate department
from Merlin which convinced officials
that the dissension in congress was be
ing lined deliberately (o weaken the
presliii-tit's hand In Germany,
Confidential advices state that re
ports circulated in the Herman capital
an having come from Washington, de
clared that congress stood five to one
against the president. Out of the
senate debate came a turn which for
tho moment, threatened to overshadow
the real features of the contest and
probably disclose the basis of Hie agi
tation at the capltol.
I Senator Hore, while the senate sat
I rapt In amazement, related a story
Mini! President Wilson in his confei
;,eliee Willi congressional leaders a
(week ago declared that Hcrmnnv's in-j
: slstence on her position in the sub-.
i marine controversy probably would
' result in a breach of diplomatic re
i latioiis; that a breach probably would
he followed by war; ami that "a state
I of war might not be of itself and of
necessity an ivil to this republic but
I that the United Slab s by
I upon wur now might he abb
i il to a conclusion by i ti i I .-1 1 1 ;
thus render a great, .service
zation."
i Senator Hore claimed he
j say the sloi'v wa
j came to him Willi
of testimony and .
1 1 hat he did ma l'
charge his duty as
, hold it.
Chairman Store
. latlons eonunlti'-i
i the pri-sid
nor in hi:
i or In n iiv
entering ,
to brine. '
niier and ;
to chlli-l
did not I
nil. hut that It
Niii-h a coiicu rrence I
neb marks of tru! h
I that, Ii old (lis-!
a senator ami vviin.
of the foreign re
it once replied that
nt never had stated to him
s hearing thai he believed,
wav entertained the thought
re t be ( 'hicago and SI.
conventions,
f the primary law pro
voters may vote for a
andidate as second choice it is- like
ly to be several days before the results
on many of the offices, are Known.
irib'r of 1 '"' primary law ice- away vviin
...iii, Ian conventions in the state except the
told them
and the as-
Amerlcans had been
rra tiv.ii partisans bad
sta te con ( n t ions.
vent!"ii candidates
, i United Stales s mil,
if tll"V 'He liol etios
The stall, cmiveiiti
do's
slat,
At I In- slate enn-j
tor governor and
il- Will b, selected
ii at the primary
nominate
- ; that war between the 1 United
IB UORNINd JOURNAL RftLIAL LAIO WRg !aHf H C ' 1 11 il 1 1 ,V VV,Hl,t le deSU''''
Chicago, .March ' -.'. The federal ' would result in food to tin-
i. l.lil. I Im-i t,,,l,,- ret il i'ii...i , twlii-1 iv, I. ill t ' Stil t es.
before Judge Carpenter nrains! three i Slatcmciil IVoin U Idli
i ha i ued with lieiiiL' liiinlle.ited In! Wlp'u the While House
men
the alleged attempt to bribe the jury ' enn li ir I
which tried A. C. Frost . principal ()- was Iksiii
fondant in the Hi.miu.aiirt Alaskaj When
coal laud frauds ease here April 4.!H"nsi vv
Cil.'l. The Indicted men are: liiiciis in
A. C. Frost, charged with hlm-ci ing ' at ii-rnoon
to pay o, VV. Ilurke, a juror, Jlfi.tiliu
in case of an acipiittal, und (i,iinii
for a disagreement.
Ii. W. Coin ke, former may
l;lue Island, i juror, ehargcl
agreeing to accept u bribe.
bulged wilh
States ;
hie or
United i
House.
heard what
re had said, t'lis statement
,r of
with
I a n
being
will
lieutenant gov ernor, secretary of slate
auditor of slat'-, 1 ri-iA.nl r of state, at
torney general, superintendent of pub- each of which during
lie instruction, state statistician, two davs was nroductive ,
udges
court
presid
There will be thirty delegates to the
national convention from each party
military committee.
A1 join ned at 5:16
rlday.
Indiana. Ian h
fs del, g.ite to
east Previous repons siiio nun n.m uon win w-n-i.i nui
n ui to noon 'sailed from New 01 leans and latide.1 dianapolis the night
' i in the state of .Vera O ua Acuvcutlou is held.
congressional dis-
the state conven-
of these at In
btfory tli" stale
licit Wb
go-I.et vv ecu.
Under the law. Mr. Frost. If found
guilty, may be fine Jiiu.Oun or impris
oned for fifteen years. The i barges
against the others are punishable bv
fines of $1(1.10111 or two years impris
on ment.
Mr. Frost in a statement denied tin
i barges.
tie- ii 1 1 ' ii t ! mi ..I' the bite
s c,-i:lei lo certain m ' n t . -Senator
Hole's speech this
th" president authorized
UlliplilMlled denial of .my III ti i-
ii, -e to which anv sin h . meaning
nuld I',, attached."
It w.iv i villained on bis behalf that
, nt h:cl l"ld I he congress
ml, I not predict what would
breaking off of diplomatic
and b.ol expressed in Hp
roil:' terms his hope that
dm
tion
ffor,
jl.le pICSI
! men In- i
I follow il
I relations
i most v ig
th, United Slates would not I
Into war and Ills deierniin
eiinlii'ii. In bend his every
of the -committee ten members were
in favor of Peprcsetitnllve Lemore's
resolution and nine were against it.
There were twenty-one members of
the committee,
Maim Confers With Wilson.
Outside of the democratic ranki
the principal development was Pier
Ident AVIIson's Inv itiitfort to Uepuhli
can leailer Mann to confer with him
at the White House. ,
Mr. Mann went to the White Hons
at 6 o'clock this aftmnuon and after
ti conference with the president wan
silent. It was understood the pres.
Ident, following his course of treat
ing the situation as u purely non-partisan
fiucHtlnn had sent for tho re
publican leader to acquaint htm with
all the details of the complex condi
tion of affairs and probably asked
for the support of the republicans in
l-tla determination to stand for th
right iif American dtizens to travel
the high sens under tn Rusrantees of
international law. Later Mr. Mann
would not Indicate what, he said t
the president or how he w ould vote on
a warning resolution hut It is under
i stood generally Unit a mnjorlty jot tho
republicans would vote ngalnst one.
Allot IteprcNenlatlvo Mann left, the
I president conferred for an hour with
Secretary 1-flns.ing over the event In
the senate ami their effect on the sit
uation. Conferences of admlnlstrat ion letnl
iim In the senate were held as soon as
the last word in the long pent up dis
cussion had been uttered on the floor.
Senator Stone chiseled himself lo work
out a plan foV a substitute resolution.
.Meanwhile other democrats, among
them Senators Kern, James, Martin,
Svvanson, Pomerene, Clarke, Williams,
Hughes, Simmons and overman, re
tired lo :i cominiHer room. Their first
impulse was to discuss the duclaraiiou
of Senator Horn regarding reports of
President Wilson's statements to Con
gressional leaders. Peep regret over
the utterances was voiced by nearly
every senator present.
Hut this was passed over quickly
end the conclusion was unanimous
l that decisive action be taken without
! tin her delay.
i Stone i:plains position,
j Senator Sknn submitted suggestions
for a substitute resolution which ho
thought might meet with general ap
proval of the senate. The republicans
who were seen slated frankly that
they would vole for no resolution
which in any way would servo to em
barrass Ihe president or smack - of
I opposition to his coni se In the conduct
of foreign affairs.
fjcmocrais argued Hint to submit a
Hiihsiii urc necessarily would open the.
foodsales of oratory again and Sena
itor Stone finally was prevailed on to
'five up 111 ( i ffort.
The administration senators agn-ei
Unit a million to table tho Gore rcso-
lotion la- made as soon as Senator
(!,,ir concluded whatever remarks he
might choose to make in calling It up.
I With this decision reached. Senators
f Lodge, Sinoot, Curtis and other repuh-
iliciiis wen- Informed of the plan.
;Tbiy nt once a'-ed to its wisdom, but
wn thought that some republicans might,
"(upon principles object to shutting olf
lliani heltl, act used of strangling to
death liolores Kvi-ns in a hotel here,
was coiivlitcd tonight of manslaugh
ter, the jury returning the verdict
after six hours deliberation. Tie was
chargl-d with first d.'g.ree murder.
Ultimatum lo Poi-tuvuil.
London. Manh I t.':i'!i p. m l A
number of dispatches from Llsboi to
Amsterdam today reiterate the refoi't
that Gel many has addressed an u,ti
malum to Portugal on account of the
seizure of German merchantmen i in
PoltiHUeSo Jiurts, , ,
prevent, II. It was denied that,
president sa'd anvlliing to colivev
Impression lh.it he desired Ihe Unit
ed States to enter the war to shorten
jit or for any other reason, but he re
iterated tip- necessity of upholding
the null. mill honor of the United
Stales it all costs.
No attempt was made to minimize
(he realization of the t ffect Senator
(Sort's declaration might have on the
foreign situation at this time, und on
all sides ij was admitted to be. prod-
debute by voting to table another i-en-
Ihc ntora proposnl. Whim l hey hud made
thel.. canvass of their eot li-a-' lies, however.
tin y reported that all but a few- had
consented to abide by the decision.
Then th,. senate w is adjourned un
til II o'clock tomorrow. When tho
usual morning business is concluded,
S.-nator Gore will call tip his resolu
tion and the motion to table will be
offciitd. Thin wilt bring; the Ifsue at
one In a voto. It wan agreed to
adopt the same, course with referencw
to tho pending resolution by iSeuator
