VOL. 52 NO. 54
TWENTY PAGES TODAY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1916
PAGES ONE TO TWELVE
PRICE TWO CENTS
."
3
1 P1ES11MT (DM MimW 'SHIPS ISSUE;
: : mm mmimim is tei, is to m
BrT7n nsrrs nnn 3nn n fnnrp!nCMTAI UVniCkJIQTL - ' .
Tmm
imm.
IJenfield Returns to Works Managership of the
News Arms Factories North of Boston Ave
nue -Major Phillips Leaves Bridgeport Enter
prise Military Regime Is Over.
After year's test at the Reming
, ton Arms & Ammunition Co. and the
Union Metalic Cartridge Co., the mil
itary system there has been aban-
con-ed. ' . .
Starting at . 6 o'clock on the evening
of March 1, C. C. Tyler, vice presi
dent of the new combination of the
' ' Remingtoa interests, became works
manager of the Union Metallic Cart
ridge Co. . -
Major Walter O, PenSeld. U. S. A.,
v. retired, who . has . been, general man
ager of the Remington interests here,
became works manager of the .Rem
ington Arms & Ammunition Co. shops
. north of Barn urn avenue only.. His
position there corresponds' to that of
."Works Manager Tyler in the -XT; -M. C.
'.. Co. ; - :
Major W. A- PiiUnps, who succeeded
Frank, p. HEoagland as jjvorks manager
of the ;tJ. M."C. Co. ' bast year, is tio
longer connected with the company. J
' Ending?, their 1 employment with the
" munitions plants her also, are .Major
.- Iickinson and Capt. D. C- Seagraves,
the latter of Fairfield.
Mr. Hoagland, an . expert on . press
work, and one of the most valuable
MM
; Grilling ' cross-examination that
caused the exhaustion of one witness,
and -fights over admission of evidence
as to Haines mental condition both
before -and after the crime, were fea
tures ot . the sixth day session of the
Jason S. -Haines murder trial. -
Dr. .Frederick J., Adams, the Bridge
port physician, who, subpoenaed as a
- state's witness, had testified materially
-for the defense, withstood a severe
grilling upon technicalities until his
exhaustion became so apparent that
the cotxt Ordered a recess whole the
witness stretched upon a couch in the
corridor . Dr. Adams declared that his
professional duties had required hiim
to lose ' many hours sleep during the
past hours.
What constitutes alcoholism, de
lirium and a plain "hang-over," in the
parlance of the street, were questions
which occupied pages of the record to
day. Whether a layman with -but less
than an hour's observance of a person
was qualified under the Connecticut
statutes to render an opinion as to his
appearing sane or insane . was a ques
tion that was decided in the affirma
ative toy Judge James H. Webb after
consultation of references. . -
Dr. Adams was . the first witness of
the morning, taking the stand for the
(jurpose of croes-examination by
Sntte's Attorney Homer S. Cummin gs.
At the opening he desired to change
a statement made by him yesterday
with -reference to having a telephone
call noted in his office records which
shows that he had been called on the i
telephone by Constable. Kmil Berger
on the Friday preceding the crime and
told not to come to' Trumbull because
Mrs. Haines had been taken to a
Bridgeport hospital. Haines, however,
had called upon him to go and he did.
. Taking lip his qualifications in med
icine Dr. Adams showed that he had
practiced in Bridgeport since 1895. He
had observed many alcoholic and de
lirium tremens cases in bis practicor
About 90 per .cent, of such cases are
found in hospitals, the remai-der in
private practice. He was as?ed to' de
fine Haines' actual condition today.
A gruelling cross-examination by
State's Attorney Cummingg Degan as
to -the premonitary symptoms of tre
mens under which the vpice of the
witness became fainter and fainter.
The physician stated that . the tend
encies -of the disease were often sui
cidal or homicidal, with sleeplessness,
restlessness, vomiting and other
symptoms sometimes showing. Hal
lucinations and the . Argyle-Robinson
- pupil were referred. to.
Dr. Adams at this point was show
ing fatigue but was asked to differ
entiate ' closely between the meanings
of delusion and hallucination. Upon
disclosing to the court his inability
toexplainreadily the medical differ
entiation without a rest, a recess was
granted. Dr. Adams retired to the
corridor -where be reclined upon a
OTSICIME
mm
DU
mi;: mtmm
OH mr fm fmfm
men in his line of endeavor in' the
country, is said to have returned to
the U. M. . c. Go. in an advisory ca
pacity. ' He iiaa been connected re
cently with the Pratt & Whitney Co.
Jerome Orcutt, under the new
regime, is works manager of the U. M.
C. Co. plant at Swankin, Vt.
The changes followed a conference
in New York when all the- military
men connected with the company in
officials capacities were before the of
ficers of -the concern. The military
system is said to have been a failure
and obnoxious.
Report says that $1,000,000-'worth
of brass and copper munitions sup
plied have ' been returned to the com
pany as scrap,-rejected by the inspec
tors from the foreign governments
with whom the . Remington interests
deal. - . - .,- "v-- :.
This is given a one reason, for thq
There is now no supreme head of
the two plants as Major Penneld was,
other . than the. officers 'of the com
pany and the owners, of which Mar
cel lus Hartley ' Dodge," is' the. largest
stockholder.. -'.'...'.
XHAUSTED
OSS BtAISMATIOH
HAINES TRIAL
couch until he had recovered suffi
ciently from his exhaustion to con
tinue. "
He said that when called to the
Haines homestead on the . Monday
morning of . the crime he found
Haines exhibiting ' extreme nervous
ness, he kept walking about picking
up things and putting them down
again, tried - to get some water and
spilled H. In an attempt to get some
apples in the orchard, Haines had
lost his balance in getting over a
fence and fallen backwards. ' Dr.
Adams had .felt It necessary to give
Haines twelve 7 1-2 grain triple bro
mide tablets, which contain 2 1-2
grains each ammonium, potassium
and sodium' bromide. "Haines imag
ined that they were going to hang
him in Trumbull -for the assault - up
on his wife and would take his prop
erty away . from him." Haines said
that everybody in Trumbull was
against him. Dr. Adams finally stat
ed that "Haines was bordering on de
lirium tremens; in other words in the
first stages of delirium tremens.
August F. Kuehii, .of Fairfield, liv
ing near the Trumbull line, . who has
known Haines for many years was the
next witness for the state. Haines
had visitecKhis farm on the Sunday
preceding the crime. He knew that
Haines supported his wife. Haines
always was addicted to intoxicating
liquor. . -
Haines was incapable of taking care
of himself and asked many foolish
questioned when . he visited Kuehn on
that Sunday. He wanted Kuehn to go
t riding' with him but did . not know j
! where they might go. Haines did not j
want to be alone. He looked wild 1
and his eyes were wandering.. He
could not stay still, was very restless.
Witness had often seen him nervous
but never In such bad condition, and
Kuehn would not ride with him.
Kuehn considered him "insane."
On cross examination the witness
admitted that the fact that Haines
wanting to take him for a ride with
out p.ny definite destination might not
be unusual except in connection with
other circumstances. Haines thought
he saw many things about the Kuehn
place that were changed but which
were the same as seen by Haines be
fore. Witness had known Haines
since 18 88 but never before thought
him insane.
He admitted that he had talked
with Sheriff Simeon Pease about
Haines but denied that he then told
the sheriff that he did not think
Haines crazy and merely a foolish fel
low. Witness thought the remark if
made related to some other act.
Kingston. Ont. March 3 The fast ;
train on the Grand Trunk Railway out
of Montreal, No. 13, was derailed near
Kingston Mills six miles from here
today. Eight passengers were- in-
jured. 1
DENTAL HYGIENIST
IS SERIOUSLY ILL
FROi INFECTION
Physicians . Now Confident
of Recovery of Public
School Attendant.
SUFFERED SLIGHT
CUT FROM PROBE
Is One of Corps Which Is
Making Bridgeport's
Schools Famous.
After having been in an-extremely
critical condition many days, Miss
Catherine Poland, a dental nurse em
ployed in the schools of Bridgeport, is
very much , improved at St. Vincent's
hospital, and is believed to be recov
ering. ,
Miss. Poland has been in the hos
pital a month, during part of which
she seemed likly to die. She is suf
fering from the effects of an infection
she received last -year when she was
treating one of the children in Bost
wick avenue school.
In the latter part of last year. Miss
Poland, one of the. nurses of the corps.
that is making Dr. AjjtnreOystem
here noted thjifgnout the country,
was bussEamining the teeth of the
cjtulireitin the Second , and .Third
grades of Bostwick avenue , school ',
Through . an inadvertence, a probe
cut the index finger on her right hand,
as she was cleaning a child's teeth.
The . injury was slight. She. put col
lodion, in a patented form, on the cut.
Whether from this or- from contact
with an ill child. Miss Poland's right
hand was infected. So severe did the
infection become that she was remov
ed to St. Vincent's hospital, where she
spent three weeks under the treat
ment of Dr. J. Murray Johnson. She
left the hospital and returned to her
home.
Early in January, a peculiar afflic
tion incapacitated Miss Poland. . She
was again taken to St. Vincent's hos
pital. A painful disorder had spread
throughout her body.
Dr. Johnson and Dr. G. W. Haw
ley puzzled over the case. Although
The Farmer received confirmation
this afternoon of the fact that Miss
Poland is suffering from a deep-rooted
infection, there had been discus
sion as to whether the - Ulness was
rheumatism or infection.
Fears felt for Miss Poland by her
friends, were allayed this afternoon
by the announcement that - she- is
much improved ani getting along
well.
Miss Poland is one of the dental
nurses - trained by Dr. Fones. Bridge
port has instituted a system that was
unique in the country, 'and which is
being copied in many cities. Through
care of school children's teeth by ex
perts from the .time they enter school
until they leave, it is believed that
much of disease that may be traced
to teeth affections, will be prevented
in Bridgeport. The children in the
first few grades of the schools here,
have noticeably superior teeth than
those of the children who preceded
them in the schools.
Miss Poland -presides at 185 Lewis
street.
GIRL STRIKERS
FIGHT SHELTON
POLICE 2 HELD
Riotous Scenes Mark Strike
of Employes of Corset
Supply Co.
Shelton, Conn., March 3. Rioting
and clashes between strikers and po
lif -w,fMYT-r-r! TiAra todav in connection
wit.h . .,rike of about 80 erirls and
women at the B M. Bassett Corset
Supply company. The strikers walked
but a day or two ago, demanding an
adjustment of wages.
Most of them gathered at the fac
tory gates today and attempted forci
bly to prevent other employes from
going to work. ..- '
When the latter persisted in enter
ing they were peTled with sticks, pa
per and other missiles. Half a dozen
police hastened to the scene and were
made targets by the strikers.
Later when Amy Kurozeurez. a
striker, of Derby, was arrested the
others attempted to rush the police
and rescue her.
officers had to carry their pris
oner by a back way and through al
leys to the lockup. As the crowd
pressed after them, yelling and still
pelting them with various objects, an
other striker, Josephine Osezecz, also
of Derby, was arrested. In the clash
one of the strikers had her head
gashed by a policeman's club.
Tn officer claimed that his club
struck her , accidentally as he whirled
i Continued en Page 2.)
EMMKKISS!
AS BIG
Washington, March 3 By a vote of 68 to 14, a greater majority
than they expected, administration forces in the Senate today tabled
Senator Gore's resolution to warn Americans off the armed ships of the
European belligerents and thereby finally quelled in the Senate any
agitation which has embarrassed President Wilson in the submarine
negotiations with Germany.
Senator Gore's resolution, a substitute by Senator McCumber, a
Republican, and an attempt by Senator Gore to strenghthen his original
proposal, all were defeated at one
Senator James, the administration
f TEXTOF-ORTSESUI70TO
BY 68 14 VOTE IN SENATE TODAY
Washington, March 3 The text of -.the Gore resolution follows :
"Whereas, a, number -of leading rowers of the world are now engag
ed in a. war of unexampled proportions, and
"Whereas, the United States is happily at peace with all of the bel
ligerent nations, and
"Whereas, it is equally the desire and 'the interest of the American
people to remain at peace with all nations and . .
"Whereas, the President has recently afforded fnrslj and signal
proofs of the superiority of diplomacy to butchery as a method of set
tling international disputes, and
"Whereas, the' right of American citizens to travel on unarmed bel
ligerent vessels has recently received renewed guarantees of respect and
and inviolability, and "''''-
"Whereas, the right of American citizens to travel on armed belli
gerent vessels rather than upon unarmed vessels is' essential neither to
their life, liberty or safety, nor to the independence, dignity or security
of the United States, and , ' '
"Whereas, Congress alone has been vested with the power to de
clare war, which involves the obligations to prevent war , by all proper
means consistent with the honor and vital interests of the nation; there
fore, be it "
v "RESOLVED, by the Senate, the House of Representatives concur
ring, that it is the sense o the Congress, vested as it is with the sole
power to declare war, that all persons owing allegiance to the United
States, should, in behalf of their own safety and the vital interests of the
United States, forebear to exercise the right to travel as passengers upon
any armed vessel of any belligerent power, whether such vessel be armed
for offensive or defensive purposes and it is the further sense of the
Congress that no passport slioulTl be issued or renewed by the Secretary
of State, or by anyone acting under him, to be used by any person owing
allegiance to the United States for purpose of travel on any such armed
vessel of a belligerent power."
GER1AMS B
VILLABEOJ
Berlin, March 3 German troops
cleared the village of Douaumont and
pushed their lines to the west and to
the south of the village of the armored
fort yesterday according to the official
announcement issued today by the
German army headquarters staff.
The statement adds that more than
1,000 prisoners were taken and also
that a number of heavy : guns were
captured. . .
FRENCH ADMIT liOSSES.
Paris, March 3 The Germans hate
resumed their violent attacks to the
north of Verdun. : The only point
where they attained any success, ac
cording to this afternoon's official
statement by the war' office, was In the
Douaumont region.
STUDENT NURSE
DIES A MARTYR
TO PROFESSION
G irl Completing Studies at
Bridgeport Hospital is Vic
tim of Typhoid Fever.
As the result of having contracted
typhoid fever while tending a child
who was recovering from that dis
ease, Miss Catherine Agnes Montague,
a charming and gifted young nurse
of this city, died last night at the
Bridgeport hospital. Miss Montague,
the daughter of James H. and Mary
W. Montague, of 115 Denver avenue,
had served a year's apprenticeship at
the Bridgeport hospital and had left
because of illness at home. She was
planning to resume ner studies there
MAJORITY
USE EXPECTE1
OUT FOES in
DOUMW:
Here they succeeded in reaching
Douaumont village where heavy fight
ing is continuing. Other attacks in
this vicinity were repulsed with heavy
losses to the Germans. " .
The village of Vaux also was at
tacked by the Germans but these ad
vances were checked by the French
fire and the Germans were compelled
to retire, leaving a great number of
dead.
The bombardment continued with
great intensity . yesterday evening and
last night in the Woevre district.
The French forces held the Germans
in check by their curtain of tire. The
artillery of the. Germans has been ac
tive in the vicinity of Malancourt and
near Haureourt
but in the interim - was doing some
private nursing.
She took a position in augatuck
nursing a child "who was recuperating
from an illness with typhoid and was
herself stricken while attending to her
duties about three weeks ago. The
young woman was taken to the hos
pital in . this city, where her former
classmates and officials of the institu
tion did everything in their power to
save her, but their efforts were un
availing. ,
Miss? Montague was born in Boston,
2.2 years ago, but had lived in Milford
the greater part of her life. She at
tended the public schools of that town.
Seven years ago, with her family, she
came to live in this city. She was
greatly beloved by all who knew her
and nurses and officials of the hospital
staff, as well as her other friends, are
grief stricken at her death.
Besides her parents, she is survived
by her two brothers, William J. and
Frank Montague.
THE WEATHER
Probably .snow and colder tonight;
Saturday fair; s:mg north winds.
VE Q
QUELLED
UP
LDS WILSORI;
TO ACT AT -
time on a roll call
whip, to table them.
Meets Wishes
The administration victory in the Senate transferred
the fight to the House. J
It was said at the White House that the result in the
Senate was satisfactory and met the wishes of President
Wilson.; It .wag added that attention would now be con
centrated on the situation in the House.
How the Senators Voted.
The roll call was as follows:
Ayes Ashhurt, Bankhead, Beckham, Brandegee,
Broussard, Burleigh, Chilton, Clark of Wyoming, Colt,
Culberson, Curtis, , Dillingham, DuPont, Fletcher, Gore,
Harding, Hardwick, Hitchcock, Hollis, Hughes, Husting,
J ames, Johnson of Maine, Johnson of South Dakota, Kern,
Lane, Xee of Maryland, Lewisr Lodge, McLean, Martin,
Martine, Myers, Nelson, Newlands, Oliver, Overman,
Arnnv, 1 I Jl , 1 TUi . T ,. " J X T
w cu, a. age, jxj.cj.aii, x it Lilian, ruiiiueALei, jroiiiex ene,
Ransdell, Reed, Shaf roth, ". Shephard, Shields, Simmons,
Smith of Arizona, Smith of Georgia, Smith of Maryland,
Smith of Michigan, Smith of South Carolina, Sterling,
Stone, Swanson, Thomas, Thompson, Tillman, Underwood,
Vardaman, Wadsworth, Walsh, Warren, Weeks, Wil
liams. Total 68-
. Noes Borah, Chamberlain, Clapp, Cummins, Fall,
Gallinger, Gronna, Jones, LaFollette, McCumber, Norris,
O 'Gorman, Sherman, Works. Total l4.
Gore Against Resolution
Senator Gore, himself, voted to table his" resolution. Sen-;
ators Chamberlain and O'Gorman were the only Democrats to;
vote against the administration. The other anti-administration :
votes were all Republicans. Forty-seven Democrats and twen-i
ty-one Republicans voted to table the resolution. ,
Senator Borah demanded the regular order. When Senator i
Stone's name was called he said:
"If present, Senator Saulzbury would have voted 'aye' on
the original resolution."
Senator Borah, misunderstanding that Senator Stone was,
explaining the vote of a colleague, objected.
"If this Senate is going to be gagged, the Senator from Mis-,
souri will be gagged with the rest of us," Senator Borah shout.-;
ed.
When drder was restored
this resolution I voted aye."
There was some uncertainty
tus of the various resolutions
James had moved to lay not only the
Gore warning resolution but also to
hold "the corrected resolution on tne
table. It was necessary then for sen
ators to express themselves in one
vote as to the warning and on the
question of the killing of an American
on an unarmed mer-uauuuau .-
cause for war.
For that reason Senator Gore voted
to table because he did not favor his
own substitute and had introduced it
merely to get an expression or tne
Senate on that issue. The text of Sen
ator Gore's addition to his original
resolution, and which was tabled with
the warning resolution was as fol
lows: "Resolved, by the Senate, the House
of Representatives concurring, that
the sinking by a German submarine
without notice or warning of an
armed merchant vessel of her public
enemy, resulting in the death of a cit
izen of the United States would con
stitute a Just and sufficient cause of
war between the United States and the
German empire."
Several senators explained that the
double form of the question was re
sponsible for the character of the vote,
as few senators wanted to vote on the
question regarding a cause for war.
Senator McCumber later re-introduced
substantially the same resolu
tion he had offered as a substitute to
the Gore resolution. The McCumber
resolution would go on the calendar.
To bury the proceedure the Senate
had dispensed with reading the jour
RICE
on a motion bv
of President.
Senator Stone explained that "on
among Senators as- to the sta-;
when the roll call had begun.
nal. The usual grist of memorials
and petitions was presented on the :
floor, crowded with Senators and Rep
resentatives and the galleries packed
by a throng which included the Pres
ident's wife fairly hummed with ex
pectation. While the Senate was voting. House
leaders were working. The adminis- '
tration victory in the Senate was ex
pected to solidify the sentiment in the
House and leaders looked for favora
ble developments during the day.
President Wilson had conferred
with Acting Chairman Pou, of the
rules committee, determined to have a. ;
vote in the House, even if a special .
rule containing a resolution were re
quired to get it.
As yet no resolution has been agreed
upon In the foreign affairs committee
which would command a majority
vote and there was no positive assur
ance today that any resolution would
be reported by it.
Chairman Flood expressed the hope
that a satisfactory resolution would
be drawn today and reported when
the committee meets this afternoon.
Administration leaders in the House
were hopeful that it would be un- ,
necessary to report a resolution in a
rule. It is taken for granted that .
Republicans .would fight such a rule
and with one exception, such action
is unprecedented.
Mr. Pou told members of the rules
committee that he regarded the pres
(Continued on Page 2.)
