'
1C 1F
f V. " , if1. " '
r
tM'W fsfWammWif
S i "- -f ' "W
Wxt Bmhm fan Wiratg
WEATHER FORECAST:
Snow Tonight
(Full Report on Page Two.)
HOME
EDITION
NTJMBEB 8828.
WASHINGTON, FRIDAY ETJflNINGr, MABOH 3, 01Q.
PBICEONJBgEOT.
' '.
V I
hi
VOTE OF CONFIDENCE GIVEN WILSON
BY SENATE ON ARMED LINER ISSUE
B
hi are
OF
CAPITAL'S CAH
nVessman Calls Situation
Grve and Intimates He
. Wa Demand Inquiry.
MORE DISMISSALS REPORTED
No Explanation Given by Com
paniesEspionage Charged
by Union Spokesmen.
Characterizing the situation brought
at out by the demands of Washington
motormen and conductors for Richer
pay. shorter hour, and changes In
working conditions as "very grave." n.
.member of Congress today proposed
' arbitration, and announced he Intended
taking the Inltlatlvo in other direc
tions. The legislator, who la eatd to favor the
ci mien's pUe. a understood to have con
ferred tntfay w.th hlgn officials of the
Waihlngton Railway and Elcctrlo Cum
panv and t ha Capital Traction Com
pany on the demands mado by the
organized motormen and conductors.
Tho Conge.n:an la "aid to have In
formed tho traction officials that the
unionists were determined, and, that a
conference with representatives of the
organized., employes was highly deslr
"fcbln. ir'not necessary.
, May Demand Investigation.
CharKei were made today' that thu
fifty-ope employes discharged by the
.faction cqmp&nUs since-the 'demands
were presented Wednesday were dis
missed because of their affiliation
With tho union.
The legislator who talked with tho
traction officials indicated that he
probably would offer a resolution in
the House, culling: for au investigation
of theso allegations by the union
officials.
Neither of the traction companies
frnve out statements today. Vlco
'resident Ham. of the Washington
Railway and Electric Company, said
President Clarence King was en
gaged at the Capitol in the hearing
on tho proposed consolldatoon of the
mllway company with the Potomac
Electric Power Company.
President Hamilton, of the Capital
Traction Company, said there was
nothing to be added to the statement
lisued by the company on Wednes
day. Both officials were informed that the
unionists charged that fifty-one 'men
had been dismissed for affiliating with
tho union, that alleged "spies" for the
traction headquarters had been sta-
(Continued on Third Page.)
Two Zeppelins Are
Reported Wrecked
Eighteen Children Injured When
One Falls in Belgian
Town.
LONDON, March 3. Two Zeppelins
were wrecked In Belgium February 21,
' according to Exchange Telegraph dis
patches from Amsterdam today.
"One of the Zeppelins, returning from
tho front; evidently was hit by enemy
artillery." said the dispatch. "It fell
at Eshezce, damaging a house and in
juring eighteen children.
"Another fell at Malsnault. The
debris was loaded on a train bound for
Cologne.'
"CITY MOTHER" CARES
FOR DEFORMED BABY
Operation To Be Performed to
Aid Des Moines Cripple.
DES MOINEfl, Iowa, March 3.-Baby
Dorotlty Cleveland, whoso parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Cleveland, asked to
have her killed because of a deformity
since birth, has new "mothor" today
who does not believe in tho Hilselden
idea or allowing -aerormea cnnaren to
die.
Bhe is Mrr. M. McMlchaeJ, recently
elected "city mother," by the city coun
cil, nnd she will tuoervlse the future
of tho child trid give It a chance for
health and lire If medical science can
do it.
At Methodist Hospital In a few days
nn operation will ho performed to re
pair the deformity which caused the
.parents to ask for the child' death.
From now on it will be fed tho most
nourishing food to build up its general
health. Severnl physicians have offered
their services to the "city mcthei."
warn
GOLDBERG
CONFIDENT
(IF DEFEAT OF BflFiLANLl
RIDER IS IN
Opposition to "Extra Hour"
Measure Growing Daily 'in
Strength.
MERCHANTS PRESS FIGHT
Mass Meeting of Government
Workers Arranged for To
night at Armory.
With oposltlon to the measure grow
ing dnlly and almost houly at the Cap
itol and In tho commeclal and civic o
ganlzatlons of Wsshlngton and the
country, friends of the Government
cleks In Washington today are more
confident that the Borland rider to tho
legislative hill will be defeated.
That this rider, requiring an extra
hour's labor without additional pay,
will bo stricken out In the House Is the
confident opinion of Congressman Mon
dell of Wyoming and other members
who oppose It.
Despite this confidence, opposlton to
this measure will be unremitting among
all the organizations and Individuals
that havo taken up the cudgels to defeat
th amendment on tho legislative bill
maw ViMtnm tlirk Tlmm.
Business men of the city; and labor'
organisation a well as those composed ,
of, Government workers, are prepared Wt
fight the lisuc.of'a mlqlmym eight J
nuur uay iu uia unioi.
A blcr" masv-meatlng of Government
workers will be held at the National
Rifle's Armory tonight under the aus
pices of the Office Workers' Union.
Through personal suasion, letters and
resolutions all Interested organizations
are pounding away at Congres.
Thi fight has been. made nation-wide
by the activities of the National League
of Civil Beryjco Employes,- with
branches In every city, through the
labor organisations and through the re
quests for aid sent broacast by Wash
ington commercial organizations, to
similar bodies in other cities.
The effect of this activity Is becom
ing apparent at the Capitol, with letters
and resolutions pouring in from every
Congressional district In the country.
On the cheering assurance of Con
gressman Mondcll, that opposition la
gaining strength with each day's delay
In action on the rider, local organiza
tions and local men aro pushing the
fight vigorously.
The Chamber of Commerce is sending
out to every Senator and every Con-
(81 and to pUlfir organizations
iroughout the city and the country, the
resolutions adopted yesterday opposing
the measure.
.Members of the committee that dratt
ed this resolution and report John O.
Capers, chairman; Isaac Gans, A. Left
wlch Sinclair, A. Uaner, and Ralph W.
Lee are making personal visits to tho
Capitol to enlist support against the
rider.
Thu board of governors of the Board
of Trade will meet on Monday after
noon to tako up tho subject of tho
Borland rider, to recommend a course
o action to tho full meeting of the
Board of Trade next Thursday.
While tho executive commlttoo of the
Board has gono on record as opposing
the measure, an active campaign will
depend upon tho action oT tho full
Hoard.
Members of the Retail Merchants'
Association aro so confldont that tho
rider will bo defeated tnat they nro
ijlMinln no new activities. .
The association will not let us in its
present plan of campaign, which la de
signed to reach every member of the
(Continued on Page Six.)
U. S. Holds Appam
Is Germany's Prize
State Department, However,
Wants Court Review of Treaty
to Make Terms Clear.
The German prlzo Appam Is Qormany's
to sequester until Germany sets ready
to- take her away from Newport News,
Va.
The Prussian treaty of 1KB, It was
said today, U held by the State De
partment to he the deciding factor In
the quarrel "between Great Britain and
Germany over tho prize taken by the
raider Moewe.
The department holds, however, tlmt
becauso the applicability of the treaty
Is not clear cut. It Is -desirable the mat
ter be submitted to court rev'ew, The
department, thereforo, has made no at
tempt to quash the court action us It
would have dono there been no doubt
In the chc
ifHBHHBK;Fi" 'LaHBHaHHialllllllllH
IsiiiiiiBliiiiiiHBgsiiiilsHisBSB' & IIibiiimiiiBBHIIiiiiiH
ssHHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIislHislH V -30' ?slllllllllHBis&',islllH
iHllllllllllllllllllillHisB3T v aisllilHisliKisH
-'i - -sHislMisH'aBslH
sKvvs' jislislllHHislH- alisfl
M HlHBSB&i.illi.(iiVP lKIIH
VisiBtsaiiiiiiiiiiBaHiisBiOBHisiiHisBlsiiiiiiiiiBiiiiiiiiiiiilsiw .' 'issiiiWlsBJsv? LIH
i ?. O.lsiiiiiiiiiBllissHnBsiiiBisiiiiiiilsiiiiiiiiiiiilsiiiiV .JV.hi -KtsKsV.IBiisiiiiMl
iHKssikilslllSallllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilHVV?' 'it??mmmit
isllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli Klslllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll A i.V' C? X"vTS!T7iT
Who
Allies Welcome New
Offensive
Commanders Believe Supreme Test Is Near With
Kaiser Striking With Maximum Strength-Hills
and Woods Strewn With Dead.
By WILLIAM
BERLIN. March 8. German
troops have captured the village
of DouBumont, northwest "of
Fort Douaumont, taking 1,000
prisoners, it is officially an
riounced. German aviators, it is
announced, haTe bombarded Ver
dun. PARIi3, March S Renewal of the
German offensive at Verdun finds the
Trench military authorities calm and
confldont.
It is believed here that the Kaiser
must strike now with his maximum
strength or German prestige and
Germun moralo must suffer.
The allied commandeis are said to
ask nothing better than this. Should
thu Get mans take Verdun it Is as
serted, the war will only be pro
longed, while if the offense falls, as
they feel It muot, the die will have
been cast and Germany will realize
that she Is beaten.
Poincaro At Verdun.
Tho flower of the German army Is
participating in tho Verdun struggle.
French commanders aro prepared to
rccolve the renewed attacks In a way
the enemy will never forget It is
stated.
President Polncare and staff 'have re
turned from a visit to grand head
quarters at Verdun, whoro they met
Genoral Joffre and complimented him
In the name of the French nation for
the valor of the French" troops.
French military experts are convinced
that the present German offenstvo Is
tho "real thing."
German dead are now strewn about
the Verdun woods and hills until the
fields, from a distance, seem to bo cov
ered with a strange, gray-green growth.
Not alone because the Germans havo
suffered enormous losses, but for other
reasons Paris critics do not bellcvo the
Verdun attack a feint.
French leaders certainly are not un
mindful of tho possibility of a sudden
German thrust In the Champagne, or
nearer Paris along the Alsno. The
massing of artillery and Infantry
around Verdun, howevor, leads the
critics to expect heavy onslaughts
against the French citadel from tho
east or the south,
Situation Is Serious.
The soft ground east of Verdun does
not favor tho great deployment of ar
tillery to blaze the way by a deluge of
shells. Consequently Infantry must
storm the heights with heavy sacrifices.
For this reason the heaviest German
blow mav fall south of the sectors.
wnere ugnting is now going on.
The situation on the
Verdun sector
SENATOR OLLIE JAMES. lCop right Amtrlean Ptms Aswlatton.)
Checked Long Debate on Gore Resolution?
at Verdun
PHILIP SIMMS.
was described by a competent authority
today as satisfactory, though no secret
Ismade of the fact that It Is still se
rious. It is considered certain tho Ger
mans have not launched such a vast
undertaking with the Intention of giv
ing up after only a partial check.
Kye-wltnesses all agree that the fight
ing around Verdun Is much the heaviest
of the war. not excepting even the
Yser, the Ypres, and tho Champagne
struggles.
Many times mom shells were used by
the Oermans In preparing the advance
than were utilized by the French In the
Champagne offensive. Tho German
dead. It Is estimated here, already ex
ceeds 40,000.
Vicious Attacks Mark .
Renewal of Fighting
LONDON, March 3.-Storms of artil
lery nre along the whole Verdun front
and vlcIoi:s infantrv actions around
Fort Douaumont, hnve marked th'e re
newal of the German offensive.
According to one unconfirmed report
from Stockholm today. Field Marshal
Mackcnspn, hero of the Gorman Oo
llclun and Dalk;an campaigns. Is now
directing the. Verdun operations.
Tho Germans aro using shells lav
ishly In a fierce cannonade The French
positions on Pepper Heights and west
ward Across tho Mcuse are under ter
rific bombardment. Infantry fighting
has tjegun southeast of Verdun, Indi
cating a renewal of the Attempt to ring
tho fortress from tho south.
At the same tlmo tho sudden thrust
by the Rrltlsh on the Ypros front has
uttracted tho attention of tho military
critics. After artillery preparation.
Urltlsh troops recaptured the 800 yards
of "international trenches" along the
Ypres-Comlnes canal, lost to tho Ger
mans on February U, nnd took another
small position.
The latest official dispatches from
Berlin report heavy bombardment uf
the German positions itrolnd Ypies by
the British. Itls thought possible that
tho British 'ittack on this Hector marks
tho beginning of a couiif.'.'-offeiinlve.
Providence Journal Fire
Is Believed Incendiary
PROVIDENCE, R. I , March 3.-1A-though
no heavy damage was done, ed
itors of tho Providence Journal believe
a tiro which swept the editorial rooms
laat night was of Incendiary origin.
John R. Rathoin, the edljr, discov
ered Uje blaze nnd rushed from his
of II co just as an explosion threw burn
ing papers In every direction about tho
office.
The Journal has made several cxi
poses of i.lleoed actlvtlcs of TeutonlO
agents In this count r.
The $50,000 Artist Appears Today and Every Day on
the Sport Page of The Times. Get the Goldberg Habit
GAG FAILS TO CHECK
DEBATE; SOLONS'ACT
BITTERLY ATTACKED
E
L
jo:
Appeal Made In The Times
Quickly Answered and Of
fers Still Come.
In a little home In the southeast.
where she has been left under tho care
of the Board of Children's Guardians,
Is tho happiest little girl In Washing
ton.
Bhe has never walked. An attack of
Infantile paralysis has prevented for
ever the use of her limbs. But she's
going to' school "like other children."
Miss Miriam Bchott. superintendent
of the Foundling Hospital, offered a
homo and an education. Only orie thing
was needed. She must have a wheeled
chair of the type that Is propelled by
hand.' Her story was told In the 6
o'clock edition of The Times yesterday.
Within an hour alter the papers were
off tho cress Miss Schott began to re
ceive Inquiries. Among the first to offer
assistance In obtaining a chair was the
Hebrew Charities. Before the Board of
Guardians' pfflcea closed last evening
five offers qf nsoney with which to pur
chase a chair- had been received. This
morning several additional ones were
received.
Today, this bright little girl, who has
never had a day's schooling In the short
years cf her life. Is assured or a good
home and the opportunity to learn.
The pleasure and benefits of associa
tion of children of her own age will be
hers.
"Please thank the kind ladles and gen
tlemen who have helped me," ts the
snesiage she conveys through Miss
Schott and J. Lawrence Solly, agent of
the Board of Children's Guardians.
Three Indicted in '
Picture Crusade
Sixteen Others Accused in City
' Wide Reform Move, Freed
by Grand Jury.
The crusade conducted early In Jan
uary by -the 'Metropolitan Police De
partment against Government clerks
and others suspected of possessing im
proper pictures, resulted today In In
dictments being returned against three
Qf the nineteen persons arrested.
John W. Bell, formerly employed In
the Interior Department, was Indicted
for "unlawfully exhibiting and giving
to John B. Elliott five obscene prints
and pictures."
Ueoigo A. Ager and Ernest D. I.ef
MngweU were indicted on the charge
nt HAtllnnr mirh nrintii nnri nlMnra
j Thorough Investigation by the grand
jury resuuea in mo cases against tne
others belntr Ignored.
The Information against the men was
procured by Policemen John B. Elliott
and Frank W. Hlncs. Tho latter came
to Washington from Culpeper, Va., and
was rpeclally deputized by Major Pull
man to carry on the Investigation.
i
Ml
a
OFFERED
CHILD
By Vote of 68 to 14
Tabled and at Once Solons Begin Fight
on Steam Roller Methods Used
By President's Friends.
MEMBERS IN DOUBT OVER EFFECT
Laslu'd by public opinidn to the point where itfelt
compelled to give open support to President Wilson, tfifc
United, States Senate today by a vote of 68 to 14agreed to
table the Gore resolution warning Americans off arrrjed
liners of belligerent nations.
But the Senate dodged a direct vote yes or no on
the proposition submitted by Senator Gore, which pro-,
posal the President has declared would tie his hands to sucti'
an extent that further negotiations wjth Germany would
be imposible. , ' , .
The motion to table the Gore resolution was the com
promise agreed upon with a very considerable number of.
Senators unwilling to go on record for or against the main
proposition that is the Gore resolution to warn Amen
icans off anned liners.
These lukewarm Senators were willing to give the
President a vote of confidence and they did so. The Sen
ate action in tabling the Gore resolution was generally so
considered that is merely a sa vote of confidence.
FAILS TO SATISFY MANY.
That the tabling of the resolution was not satisfac
tory to those members of the Senate who believe in the
Piesident's red blooded American policy and who want a
straight-from-the-shoulder notice served upon Germany
that this country proposed to stick by the President and
by the principles of international law upon which his policy
has been based was plain.
This feeling among Senators was evidenced only a few
minutes after the vote to table the Gore resolution when
debate agai nbroke out over the action taken by the Senate.
Senator Jones, in a straight talk declared the Senate
had been gagged, that the President had asked for specific
action on the armed liner resolution, but" that members of
the Senate had been afraid to come out in the open and
had contented themselves merely with going on record in a
'vote of confidence?"
JONES WITHDRAWS RESOLUTION.
That the controversy is not dead and that it will come'
up again in the Senate at once was Senator Jones' opinion.
Although" many conflicting views were expressed
about today's action by reason of the sudden change in the
character of the Gore proposal, yet the predominant feel
ing was that the Senate vote meant that the majority of
Senators did not desire to interfere with the conduct of
foreign affairs by the President.
On the other hand the President, so far as the Senate
is concerned, is lo be given a free hand. The vote was not'
a real test of sentiment 'on the direct question of warning,
although some Senators insisted that it was.
Moreover, it is clear that there may be recurrence of
disqussion at almost any time and especially if diplomatic
relations become more acute. .
The nction df the Gore resolution came only in the
morning session and it was tabled without debate by the
Gore Resolution Is
