WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER." )H
' LjlD
- . jB
VOLUME XXIII $1.50 PER YEAR CEDAR CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY, MAR. 3, 1916. 5 CTS. PER COPY. NUMBER 12. fH
- I ... f
, fHOUSAND DOLLARS
v FOR STRYCHNINE
This Sum Expended by Iron Co.
i During Past Few Weeks
to Kill Rabbits.
I BUNNIES GETTING LESS,
! BUT STILL PLENTIFUL.
I
I U. S. Assistant Biologist Gives Data
on Operations, and Valuable
Formulae for Farmers.
J. Ray Wilson, assistant U. S. Biol
ogist, was in Cedar City again last
. Wednesday, having spent some weeks
in this part of the state in the in
torests of the extermination of the
Isentativc of The Record, Mr. W son
stated that while there were still a
cood many survivors among the rab
bit family, at the same time they had
received enough of a check this win
ter so that a marked difference will
bo noticablo next summer. According
N to the figures furnished by Mr. Wil
son, when we include 250 ounces then
on the way for the county commis
sioners, Iron county will have used
i a total of not less than 935 ounces of
strychnine this season in an effort to
rid the range of the rabbits. This
I . has cost not less than one dollar an
I ' ounce in any instance, and in some
r ' few cases, considerably more. So we
'. - can safely estimate that more than n
I thousand dollars has been spent in
1 this work by the people of the coun-
ty. Of this amount the county com-
! . missioncrs have provided 400 ounscs;
" Lund and Nada, 200 ounces; Beryl,
M 100 ounces; Cedar City 100 ounces;
1 Parowan, 60 ounces; Summit 25 ounc
f es; Kanarra 25 or 50 ounces, (Mr.
Wilson was uncertain;) and Entcr
1 prise, just over the line, 35 ounces.
" In addition to these there have been
.' .a number of purchases by individuals
J . , of small quantities.
- ,IZ?XS6 -v&CoTfects-WronKlBiprefirien-. .
3 f While here the Biologist took oc-
J casion to refute the advice accredited
to him to feed the poisoned rabbits to
A , hogs. Ho states that he never ad-
3 vised this but has stated that it was
idono in many cases without any ap
parent injury to the animals. He did
not consider jack rabbits a very ap
' propriate diet for hogs, whether pois
oned or not.
We are indebted to Mr. Wilson for
tho following advice or plan for the
keeping of rabbits that cscapo the
winter poisoning from tho growing
crops next summer:
At regular distances of about fifty
yards, around the edge of the field,
plant small patches of oats or wheat
one foot square; protect these from
', the rabbits until they have attained
a height of a few inches, then mix
I ono ounce of strychnine (powdered)
i and one-tenth ounce sacharino; put in
' pepper shaker or similar vessel and
shake over tho blades of grain until
SJ they are coated. It may bo necessary
M to dampen tho grain slightly in order
m that tho preparation will adhere. In
W this way a great many rabbit3 can bo
M "' killed as well as taking their atten-
3B . tion from tho other crop.
IB How to Exterminate Prairie Dogs.
M . The government man also gave us
. a formula for tho destruction of prai-
M lie dogsmnd chislors, which are very
B " troublesome and destructive in cer-
m tain parts of this county:
Heat one quart of water to the
V boiling point Dissolve two heaping
'M . tablespoon fuls of dry gloss starch -in
m a little cold water, add this to the hot
water and cook until there is a thin
3 puste formed, stirring constantly to
' avoid lumps. Take from fire, add one
M ounco powdered strychnine, two tca-
'JM ' spoons soda, one-tenth ounce of sneh-
arinc, and a little Byrup, Mix this
paste over sixfeen quarts of clean
m oats and let dry for twelve hours with
'ys occasional mixings. Place very small
quantities of this poisoned grain in
.., tho burrows or scatter lightly about
1 J the holes. Whore there is danger of
"1 poisoning birds, the poison should be
" placed inside the holes.
M - . BAD ROADS CAUSE IR-
m , REGULAR MAIL SERVICE
M The past week or ten days has been
1 ' a most trying poriod for mail con-
m tractors, and it has been impossible
m to strike any whero near to the regu-
1 lar schedules. In places tho roads are
J practically impassible, particularly is
5 V this the case on the Bellcvue black-
M 4jM9w r'('G which at times has been so
ViJV dangerous that tho drivers employed
AjJ -" on this portion of tho route between
. Lund and St. Georgo have refused to
poss over tho road, and the contractor
has beon compelled on moro than one
occasion to take the mint) himself in
order to muke tho trips at all.
Auto service for tho time being on
fc ' . -tho southern portion of the route is
out of tho question, and even with
-,, 1 horses tho trip is hazzardoua.
I Wo had a short period of similar
i weather and road conditions last year,
Juut about tho time tho frost went out
; of the grbund in tho spring,' which
wa3 tho worst period of tho year,
A few days of fine weather will on-
. , I tlroly hlter" Uio situation.'
BABY WEEK IS !
MAR. 6 TO Hi
During Thin Period Baby is to be King
Throughout Country Dr. Mac-
farlano to Lecture.
The matter 18. the observance of
Baby Week in Cedar City has been
taken up by the Reloef Societies of
the two Wards, who are doing what
they can to mako tho icign of the
Baby a feature. ,
Among other things arranged for is
a locturo by Dr. M. J. Macfarlnno in
the tabernacle Tuesday evening, on
the Care of tho aby. Everybody is in
vited to attend.
With tho first breath of spring the
women's eyes turn to tho shop win
dows for peeps at the Easter bonnet.
Long will they debato whether a bunch
of yellow crocus on a saucy black tur
ban or a white tulle butterfly perched
on a green hat will be the most fetching-
For one week, however, the hat
must take a "back seat" in the win
dow display and instead of tulle and
turbans, nil things for "His Majesty,
King Baby," will be shown. In many
stores nurses will demonstrate tho
proper care and food for infants, a
large wax doll being used for the ba
by. Tho wonderful baby campaign
will be waged for one week, from
March fourth to March eleventh, and
many institutions, stores and compan
ies are co-operating with tho various
committees to make it a great suc
cess. All -bundles from tho laundries
of the larger cities will be tagged, all
milk bottles will haye special "baby
cans," and flags with tho uaby slogan,
will float from all delivery autos and
trucks.
The spirit of the week will be the
themes of sermons and addresses at
the churches for the two Sundays.
Tho Parent-Teachers' Association,
throughout the stafis? has done and is
doing excellent work.
Dr. Beatty of tho State Board of
Health has hundreds of pamphlets on
the care and feeding of babies, and
will be glad to furnish them to any
organization or person applying to
JUm,aUtho Capitol,. . r.o.rt.
The Women's Republican club, one
of the most prominent clubs in the
3tatc, has offered a prize of twenty
five dollars to be equally divided a
mong the five finest babies in the var
ious counties.
, The newspapers throughout the
United States are devoting space to
the Baby campaign, and excellent ed
itorials lauding tho movement have
been written. In some of the small
towns thte week's program will per
tain to "Little Mothters." Classes
for school girls, inspection of milk,
also instruction for prospective mo
thers will be subjects for discussion.
COMMERCIAL CLUB
WILL REORGANIZE
All Progressive Citizens Urged to At
tend Important Meeting Tuesday
Night at Library Auditorium
Every loyal, progressive, wide
awake citizen of Cedar City and ev
ery resident having the future and
progress of the community at heart,
are urged to bo at a meeting in the
library auditorium next Tuesday ev
eningj called for the purpose of reor
ganizing and resurrecting, in a sense,
the Cedar City Commercial club. The
club has never met the requirements
and filled the mission that it should
have done, and it is proposed this
year to place it on a footing with the
best commercial organizations of the
country, with a large and enthusias
tic membership, so that tho important
undertakings affecting the community
at tho present timo may bo fostered
and encouraged.
At this meeting a number of mat
tors of importance will bo considered,
including tho proposition from Paro
wan people that wo concede to them
the county fair as a regular annual
institution, waving our right to al
ternately hold it at Cedar City. It is
also understood that tho people will
be advised in relation to tho present
status of the projected branch of rail
road from Lund to this place.
These are matters in which every
live citizen should feel deeply inter
ested, and it is certain that Cedar
should have a wide-awake Commer
cial club in older to hnndle tho prob
lems that confront the community
from timo to time.
It is not the purpose to mako the
Commercial club an exclusive society
or any thing of this kind. It is de
signed solely ns an organization in
which all progressive, public-spirited
citizens may unite in order to deal
with matters which affect the public
welfare. It is as much your club as
anybody else's, and you are urged to
come out and tako part.
Remember the timo and place, and
remember that everybody is invited.
By order of Parley Dalloy, president.
Presbyterian Mission Services,
Tho subieet of Sunday ovonlng'n
sermon will bo "Christianity and Ju
deians." CLATON S, RICE, Minister.
EXPERIENCE IN
TIM ZONE
Elder Herbert P. Hnight of This
Place Writes Interesting
Letter from England.
DESCRIBES THE RAIDS
OF GERMAN ZEPPELINS
Is Much Interested in News From
Home, but is Enjoying Labors
in the Mission Field.
Birmingham, England, Feb. 2, 1910
Mr. C. S. Wilkinson, Cedar City.
Utah. Dear Mr. Wilkinson. I have
been receiving the past three weeks
vour most welcome paper, The Iron
County Record, and I look forward to
its coming ns I do a letter from home;
and it contains news that our letters
can't hope to supply us with. I prc
sumo I read it with more intense in
terest than any of your readers at
home. I am always anxious to know
the happenings in and nround Cedar.
I am wondering what the mayor and
pity council are doing to the town:
how the B. A. C. is getting along and
what schools they have beaten in bas
ket ball, and their chances for first in
tho state meet; I should like to know
the comments on the new county unit
3chool system, and how it is working
in Iron county; anxiously waiting to
hear of the "house warming" nt our
beautiful new school building, and
that the schools aro comfortably lo
cated in their new home: eager to
know what the good republicans arc
doing in politics and also our able
friends, the democrats; and a thous
and things you never think of when
you're home.
Relates Some Experiences.
If it will not be tiring to you, I will
relate some of my experiences since
I wrote you last. I labored seven
w.cckjl.r . jfegg. yr?':r.aPdMMM w
be in New York City prepared to sail
to Great Britain on the American
liner, St. Louis, on the 12th or 13th
of November. The word came at night
and tho next morning I was packed
and ready to go; for I had never giv
en up going to n foreign land.
Visits Joseph Smith's Early Home.
I had avery enjoyable train ride to
New York City, traveling only in the
day time so I could see tho country,
knowing that I may never go through
that particular country again. I
stopped off at South Koyalton and
visited the memorial farm, cottage
and monument purchased and erected
by the Church to our beloved prophet,
Joseph Smith. My companion and I
walked over some of tho old Smith
farm, the woods and pastures whore
the boy prophet roamed in his early
youth. It is ono of the most beauti
ful and picturesque spots in Vermont
small rolling hills, covered with
grass, birch trees, pines and hemlocks
make up the greater part of the farm
All is Hurry and Bustle in New York.
I arrived in New York City on the
night of tho 11th and everything was
hurry and bustle nt tho station; so
much so that ono felt dazed and be
wildered to know what to do and
where to go; and no ono appeared to
give time for you to think of your
next move, but it was got in and go
with tho crowd or get out of tho way.
However, the crowd did not seem to
know where they were going, as there
were as many coming back as there
appeared to be going; but I presume
I was tho one that didn't know whero
to go. But I was soon moved by the
onrushing crowd to the subway, where
I took a Brown Park car and reported
at the Eastern States Mission head
quarters. Great Confusion of Luggage.
Wo went down to the dock early so
that wo would bo suro to get our lug
gage inspected and our trunks tagged
for our cabins. Wo found the usual
rush and hurry at the docks as ap
peared at the stations in our large
cities. Everyone seemed to have lost
his trunk and was running to and fro
trying to find it. Tho trunks had been
sent to tho dock from various stations
and docks, and in that great stack of
trunks it was sometimes nnra to laen
tify yours, particularly if tho tag is
covered up or obscured. Wo had to
have our traveling bags and suit cases
inspected beforo going on board. I
presume they were looking for bombs,
for they were very careful to dig up
every wrapped up article or suspic
ious looking trinket that you may ac
cidentally havo placed in tho bottom
of your traveling bag. Wo were in
formed by some of the passengers
that a prospective passenger of tho
St. Louis nttempted, unconsciously or
on purpose to get aboard with somo
explosives and he suddenly found him
self to bo a vory popular man, sur
rounded by attendants and given a
special seat in the company's private
office, whero ho no doubt received
somo very pertinent ndvico on trav
eling etiquette
Ship Sets Sail for Liverpool. i
At 12 m. November 13, wo sot sail
from New York City. Tho Boa was
smooth and I wondered how peoplo
would over get seasick traveling, on
tlits taenii, Wlioii hardly' nf Wu trr Up
was pcrccptiblo or noticeable. I
thought that sea voyages had been
terribly misrepresented; but oh I what
a difference tho next morning. Tho
ship then seemed to be possessed of
evil spirits and was rolling and toss
ing continually; dipping and tipping
when she had no business to do so.
Of course there were big waves, but
why could not she plow through thorn
without rising and falling with each
ono? But I was not long condemning
the ship for its unnecessary actions
and misconduct, for I was taken with
a most peculiar feeling, nnd wanted,
through my modesty, to hide myself
in some remote corner of the ship nnd
give vent to my feelings in solitude;
but wherever I went I heard someone
of tho same mind nnd similarly afflict
ed an myself. Poor souls, I sympa
thized with them and thought that I
could best relieve them by leaving
them alone; for I noticed that I al
ways felt better when I was out of
sight of those poor people who wore
not used to the sea. i
Tho ocean grew moro rough each
day until the eighth day out when it
was again as quiet ns ono of our
small lakes. Everyone was feeling
fine nnd enmo out on deck, sang songs
and plnyed games, cheering those who
were depressed, and making them join
in tho frolics.
First Evidences of the War.
Wo saw very little on the trip to
indicate that a great European war
was on, but when wo got in Liver
pool we knew then there was some
thing of a discordant nature for there
were war ships and other ships pass
ing in and out and around us, and tho
dock was closely guarded by military
officers who were on tho watch for un
desirables and suspicious looking peo
ple. Wo were all sent to the dining sa
loon, where our passports were exam
ined and we were briefly questioned
as to our purpose in coming to this
country. We were surely plensed to
get our feet on land again nnd away
from the nauseating fumes of tho
ship. Everything was strange and wo
were somewhat bowilderod with tho
new customs und strange scenes. Tho
cities, the buildings, tho people, tho
langungc, all seemed different; and
wherever wo went wo wore looking
all the timo at the new sights, and
when anyone in the party saw some
thing new he would attract tho at-'
tention of the others for fear they
ij"jtfh,i M?V"'-S"TlMHl,ffiffil i mil r
Attracted Much Attention.
However, tho people seemed to bo
as much interested in us as wo were ,
in them, for wherever we went along
the street wo seemed to nttract a good '
deal of attention, the people not know
ing that wo were friendly Ameri
cans their brothers but feeling that
we may bo Germans in disguise. Yet
the people here havo vory little troub
le in telling that we are Americans,
and as soon ns they talk to us they
know that wo are.
The alien is well looked after hero
now, nnd tho efficient detective serv
ice tells them when an alien enters a
restricted area and when he leaves;
and he must register at tho police
station of that city whenever ho re
mains over night, and when ho leaves,
so you see my name was registered at
the police station beforo It was any
where else, when I came to this city.
People Too Occupied for Religion.
I am enjoying my labors fine and
appreciate the oxporienccs I am re
ceiving in a foreign land. Of course,
the work Is moving slowly now, due
to the disturbed condition of the coun
try, which is engaged in the greatest
struggle that has ever beon known
in history, and wo hope that will over
bo known in the future. People don't
want to talk religion very much; they
will talk war all day with you, but
when you get upon religion thoy have
work to do. However, they would
like to know which side the Lord is
fighting for; and why ho permits the
modes, such as zeppelin raids, poison
ous fumes, etc.; wnen tho end will be;
but their minds are so dl&turbed that
they don't want to discuss religion.
We have somo very active branches
in this conference, and tho good work
is going on. Wo havo a number of
our members nt the front fighting for
their country.
Dreaded Raids by Zeppelins.
The country has had another visit
from zeppellns nnd tho people arc
very much excited over such slaugh
tering tactics killing many poor, in
nocent women and children. Monday
night, January 31, my companion and
I wore on our way to call on a family
of investigators, at about 8 p. m.,
when wo heard the explosions of dis
tant guns. Wo stopped and listened,
thinking at first it must be the re
ports of blasting at tho coal mines or
rock quarries; but the repeated and
successive explosions and tho excite
ment of tho people informed us that
we wore being visited by an enemy,
nnd the explosions wore those of
bombs being dropped from a zeppelin
or aeroplane. Tho distant roar nnd
tho rapid, hushed speaking of tho ex
cited peoplo, made a peculiar sensa
tion or feeling como over ono. I re
alized for tho first timo since I camo
over here that I was in the war zone.
We walked down on ono of tho main
streets and found that all tho street
lights were off. Street cars wore
stopped everywhere ulong tho lino,
and were not allowed to move. Po
licemen went ulong tho street and
notified tho people to put out their
lights; all veliicles wore stopped and
traffic suspended. Not even a man
was allowed to ride a bicycle or drive
n team down tho street. Thousands
of peoplo were moving hurriedly to
ward homo to their wives, mothers,
'(CtmtirvuTrtl tm pngtf 8.)
STEAM LAUNDRY
FOR MR CITY
Money Obtained for Purpose and
Preliminaries Have Been
Accomplished.
TO BE IN ACTIVE OPER
ATION WITHIN 90 DAYS
Gronwny R. Parry, Instructor In B. A.
C, nnd County Demonstrator,
to Put Investment Through.
That Cedar City's long cherished
dream of a laundry is about to be re
nlizcd, is assured by Mr. Gronwny
Parry, an instructor in tho B. A. C,
County Farm Demonstrator, and au
tomobile salesman, who asserts posi
tively that nil arrangements have
been made for tho establishment of
an industry of this kind here. The
capital is provided, and an order will
be placed for tho machinery in tho
very near future.
The matter of location has not yet
been decided upon, but among other
sites the old Gem Thontro building is
being considered.
Initial Capacity for S00 Families.
Tho business will havo a moderate
beginning, but tho plant will bo lurgi
enough to take enro of tho laundry
work of GOO families each week n'
the outset, and can be increased ir
size nt any time if found necessary
The cost is estimated at ?3,000, bu
may vary considerable in accordance
with tho amount of money put intc
tho building, nnd Mr. Parry has ns
surance that tho business will start
out with a good patronage. It is ex
pected that n representative of ."the
manutactu rersfl of thct machinery To
bo installed will visit Cedar within r.
few days to look over tho require
ments. Will Handle All Classes of Work.
The laundry will be equipped to do
all classes of washing and Ironing,
from the plain wet wash to the ele
gantly finished collars and cuffs and
fancy shirts. It Is a pnrt of tho plan
of tho management to also put Into
operation wagon service to Parowan
and possibly other towns of tho coun
ty, at least onco each week.
Co-Opcratlvc Laundry Impracticable.
There were so many obstacles in
tho way of the success of tho co-operative
laundry, and tho matter hav
ing been delayed so long, Mr. Parry,
who has bcerr quietly investigating
the matter for somo months from ev
ery angle, decided to finance and put
tho business into operation himself.
This will be one moro added conven
ience for Cedar City, and one that will
be greatly appreciated.
Quarterly Conference.
Tho quarterly conference of the
Parowan Stake of Zion, will bo held
in the Parowan meeting house Satur
day and Sunday, March 11 and 12.
It Is desired that there bo a good
attendance of the saints.
It is expected that there will be
some of the general Church author
ities present, but just who tho visit
ors from the north will bo is not defi
nitely known at present.
By order of tho Stnko Presidency.
Y. L. M. I. A. LEAP YEAR
BALL WAS GREAT SUCCESS
The general verdict, so far as we
have heard It expressed, is that the
Leap-year ball given by tho Y. L. M. I.
Associations of the Cedar wards In
tho hall last Tuesday evening was an
unqualified success. If there was a
drawback at all it was that tho build
ing was a littlo overcrowded, a good
many of tho younger set being pres
ent, frintcu programs wero useu, oui
the unexpected number present ran
the supply of programs snort and in
a measure destroyed their usefulness,
there being insufficient to go around.
But there was a jolly crowd out, as
well as an orderly and well-behaved
one, and tho evening was u pleasant
ono for thtoso participating.
Tho young ladles arc to be congrat
ulated upon the way the affair was
managed, and for tho sportsmanlike
way in which nearly all of them in
sisted upon purchasing tho tickets,
They would not ovon accept pay from
"extra" gentlemen.
Tho County Commissioners havo or
dered 250 moro ounces of strychnino
which is duo to arrive now at any
time, and which will be allotted to the
various communities of tho county up
on Its arrival. It is proposed to give
tho rabbits ono moro strong doso this
season, beforo spring opens. Mako it
as thtfrtArgh' a' ptrealblo.
4
B. A. C. TEAM '
WINS DIVISION -H
Given Decision Over Murdoch Acad- : Hl
cmy by State Arbitrator, on aH
Account of Irregularity. rl
The truth of the old nddnge, "Hon-
csty is the best policy," was strikingly HfH
illustrated again this week in. conncc- (!i..
tion with high school athletics in the 'l)r
Southern Division of the state. 1 'Xl
Both the last two games of basket LH
ball played with tho Murdock Acad- iftH
cmy team for the championship of the Tk'l
Southern division, havo been under v 9H
protest, because it was claimed that tUjH
Murdock was playing a man in their yJH
team who was over 21 yean of ago, PaI
nnd consequently ineligible. This the -
Murdock coach and principal have u H
firmly denied, nnd havo persisted in t!, ,H
keeping Lamorcnux, the contested j JH
player in tho game. H
At the cost of considerable effort, t M
the B. A. C. succeeded in getting first tl M
hand data from the church records of M
Panguitch, where the young man was .H
born, proving conclusively that tho 1
player was ineligible. This data was IH
submitted to tho Stato Arbitrator, 1
who rendered a decision in favor of I;K
the local school, carrying with it tho fll
championship honors of the Southern
division. 'jtl
Murdock Was Insistent. kM
The conch and principal of the Mur-
dock school was most persistent in IH
their effort to retain the ineligible Ml
player, even nftcr the protest had
been started and what ought to have
been ample evidence to nrovo tho con- ; K
tention had been submitted. -"VH
On January 20, 1015, Principal E. H
E. Erickson of Murdock sent a letter ll
of eligibility to Principal Homer, giv- -SH
ing the dato of Orton Durham's birth tH
as Nov. 28, 1893, and that of Clarence jflH
Lamorcaux as Feb. 10, 1894. He also rvl
sent a letter to Dixio Academy giving .
the same dates. Last fall Coach J. 'Sl
S. Christcnsen of the B. A. C. wrote ,
a letter to Principal Homer, knowing $ rHl
that they intended using Durham on .u 'H
their team, calling Mr. Homer's at- A H
tention to tho fact that Durham was r $ '.jbI
ineligible according to Erickson's let- 'jti;, rTH
Jock, J. L. Home, who claimed that 'HH
Erickaon hnd made a mistake, and !
that Lamorcaux has eligible. Quite " 1
a little correspondence passed in this ll
matter, but only one of tho letters is VVI
ivailablo to The Record at this time, j.l
Mr. Homor being out of town. This ;ti
letter from Mr. Hornc follows: t M
"Beaver City, Utah, Feb. 21, 1910, ' tM
Nnme in full, Clarence Lamorcaux. '"Mt
Father's name, Andrew A. Lamor- BH
cnux. fl
Mother's maiden name, Elizabeth 'Mi
Jnno Baker. 'ill
Born at Circlevillc, Utah, Feb. 10, IH
1895. H
(Baptized, confirmed, etc., follows, iPH
but aro not essential hero.) Mi
"This certifies that the above is a flH
concct copy of tho record of Clarence iflH
Lamorcaux as received from the ward nl
"lork of Mt. Carmcl ward, Mrs. B. H. jBl
Sorcnson, Feb. 12, 1916. -Z
Signed: J. L. HORNE, i
Principal Murdock Academy. H
"Dear Mr. Christensen: Clarence
Lamorcaux claims that tho record as T
furnished by Principal E. E. Erickson ' fH
last year was incorrect, and accord- KH
ingly, wrote to tho ward clerk, Mrs. JH
Sorenson, of Mt. Carmel ward, and re- ' H
ceived the above record. il
"Very truly yours, -iH
"J. L. HORNE." i iH
It will be noted from the above that , C
'ne birth plnco of Lamorcaux was giv- J rfl
en as Circlevillc, doubtless for the VflH
ourpose of making it harder to obtain flH
correct data, and it was more an ac- I?H
"ident than anything else that it was iSH
learned that he was born in Pang- ili
ultch. When a copy of tho official i
fliurch records were produced, tho ri
Murdock principal and school had to iiH
rive in and the decision in favor of &fll
the B. A. C. was the result. B
Fast Game at Beaver. "l
Tho game played at Beaver last
Friday night was hotly contested on TH
both sides. It was first one side and vl
thon the other a point ahead until -$1
time was called on tho last half, with FHH
Murdock two points ahead. In the IJwS
game played In tho local gym a week &Rin8
before tho score was 31 to 24 in favor !)
of the B. A. C. At Beaver the local llMR
team wero at a disadvantage, because SrW; V
tho floor was smaller than tho rcgula- w&f'
tion sizo and smaller than they were M
accustomed to, and it was na much a '!'
foul-calling contest as anything else. ffiK1"-
On a neutral floor of regulation sizo vk
the B. A. C. boys feel that they would 3mkj
havo had a clncho on tho tie-off gamo j' ,
anyhow, nnd tried hard to arrange IsvlC- "
for it, but somehow Murdock was sul- fiji? '
len and would not accept any sort of '
a reasonable proposition. They wore ffV.
offered the gamo at Murdock If thoy 'ff
vould pay tho B. A. C. team $100. ,'iPj
Or they wore offered $1(50 to come to lliflrf
Cedar and play. They wero made the !$
offer to play tho gamo the week fol- ?
lowing, with a purse of $100 for tho tfl
visiting team, and toss up a coin to iHHI
seo whero tho game would be played, tfJH
Cedar or Beaver; thoy wero offered x9
tho proposition of flipping up to seo JH
whether the gamo should bo at Fill-
moro or St. George. They would not JMfl I
accept any of these propositions and jMMItK
tho B, A. C. was obliged to return IHIfl
homo without making any arrange- fMH
ments for tho deciding game. In the B
mean timo, the matter of the eligibil- 9H
ity of Lamorcaux .was submitted to , flH
tho state arbitrator and his dwiaton . 4fl
piitMiewJltfthtfhtsfcbtl&tWhs'. , 'flH
