Today for tomorrow -y
jT,
fcf
Dem®
'3:'IISPIP^:
1
tlffi
S
GORE RESOLUTION DEFEATED BY
1
1
Washington, March 3.—By a vote of
to 14, a greater majority than they
expected, administration forces in the
senate today tabled Senator Gore's
resolution to 'warn Americans oft the
armed ships of the European belliger
ents and thereby finally quelled in the
senate an agitation which has em
barrassed President Wilson in the sub
marine -negotiations with Germany.
Senator Gore's resolution, a sub
stitute by, Senator McCumber, an at
tempt by Senator Gore to strengthen
his original proposal, all were defeated
at one time on roll call on motion of
Scutftor James to table them.
pm' Now Goes to House.
rsjTtoe administration victory in the
senate traru'erred the fight to the
house*. It was'sald at the White House
that-the rerult ipet the wishes of
President Wilson. It was added that
attention would now be concentrated
on the situation in the house.
-Senator Gore himself voted to table
hi*- resolution, Senators Chamberlain
ahd ©"Gonna# were the only demo
crats" who voted against the adminis
tration. The other twelve anti-ad
ntiiilstratlon votes were republicans.
Forty-seven democrats and twenty
one republicans voted. to table
resolution. rJ'
roll c»n Senator Smoot,
«c«««s«4 -fr»#m
porta*.
voted t5 excuse him. I
'Boralt Creates Soene. ,|
fiuiitor Stone's name... was.
XJ. voto of'a. «wiea«ne Objected
.' "U this senate ik toing to be gagged
the.Mnator fragoa, Missoyri will be
eegged Sdth™ the %eat of us," Senator
Borah, shouted..
1
When order was restored Senator
^-7 dtooe .explained that "on this resolu
!. Uon.I vote -aye."
i', Considerable Confusion.
There was some uncertainty (among
senators-as
oui resolution* when the rol: call had
begun.'
#t WB Be History l#* '^/^K
VOLUME FORTY-TWO 'frtrMs^.-'i «©sL
'•1
s:
... «l ko/4 a ». a .t.
be tabled because he did
not favor W« own substitute and in
tvodueed it -merely to get an expres
sion at^senate on that issue.
Homt They Voted.
Pittnan. Poliidexter, Pomerehe, Rans
delL ReeA fhrfroth, Sheppard. Shields,
SintakoiA «W«tlu of Arizona Smith, of
Georiw, Health. of Maryland. Smith, of
Michigan. Smit|l, of South Carolina
SteiftiK 4ton«^ Swanson, Thomas,
Tlniijinn Tillman, Underwood,-Vard-
rrT
I(T Wad*tw^rth, Walsh, Warren.
Wo3m Wlllifunfr—'Total,' 68.
SNays-iaorsth. Chamberlain, Clapp,
^ett^alni, Gronna,
'holies,' £*VVf|l«tte,^WoCainber N«(ris,
nations^j^.^^^#-i-'-i
1*Whwsitai,
IS ff VICTOR
p: SWerman Works^-Total, 14. journal, and tile' astMt} irrist of mein
waa
wilh
'he
Dei"
ts Line Up Almost Solidly Back of President on Question
of Warning Americans Off Ships.
DECISIVE VOTE OE 68 T014
..:/•&
Only Two Democratic Senators Vote Against Wilson's De
mand That Resolution Be Voted Down—Gore Fails to
Support Own Plan—-Twenty-One Republicans Vote
Aye—-Effort to Strengthen Resolution by Adding
Amendment Declaring Loss of American Lives Would
V' Call For Declaration of War—Considerable-Confusion
During Roll Call—House Probably Will Follow Senate
LeadButby Close Vote.
dignity or security of the ynited
States and,
"Whereas, congress alone has
been vested with the power to de
clare war which Involves the obli
gations to.prevent war by all prop
er means consistent with the honor
and vital interest of the na'tion
"Therefore be it, resolved by the
SAMARA *UA It A««CA
tives concurring that it is, the
sense of the congress, vested-as it
is with sole power to declare war,
that all persons owing allegiance
to the United States, should in be
half of their own safety and the
vital Interest of the United States
forebear to exercise the right to
travel as, passengers upon any
armed vessel of any belligerent
power, whether. such vessel be
armed for offensive or defensive
purposes and it is the further sense
of the congress that no passport
should be Issued or renewed by the
secretary of war or by any one
acting under him to be lised by
any person owing allegiance to the
United States, for purpose of
travel upon any such armed vessel
of a Jielligerent power." •.
QSraT Amendment*
text of Senator Gore's' addition
to his orlgthg -resolution was as fol
lows:
he was opposed to. the Gore resolution.
House to Line Up.
The rot! call was as follows:
Ayes—Ashurat, Bankhead, Beckham,
Brandegee, Broussard, Burleigh, Chil
ton, Clark, of \yyomuiK Ciarke, o«.
Arkansas Colt, Culberson, Curtis,
DUllngham, DuPpnt, Jletcher, Gore,, (jrawn today and Reported when the
HCardwlc^, Hitchcock, Hollis, Hughes, I committee meets this afternoon.
Hustlng. j^meB, of Maine:. Johnson, or Mr. Pou told meiilbers of the rules
South IpsAota Kern, Iiane, Lee. of committee that he regarded the situ
Maryla«$ Lewis, Lodge, McLean,
While the senate was voting house
to the status of. the varl- leaders were working. There was no
It 'was explained then that Senator ment ih the house and the leaders
James had moved to lay not only the lookedxfor some favorable develop- i0' anything.
Qtin warning resolution but also the
so-called oorrected resolution on the
table. It was necessary then for sena
tor" to exprsss themselves as to warn
ing and the Question of the killing of
an American -on an unarmed mer
chantman Ml cause for war. For
that reipusbiii Senator Gtjre voted the
resolution
to
auoti
Martin. Y«arttii® Myerp Newlands,, reason there would be secret meetings
Oliver, ^hrarman, Owen, Page, Phelan,
0
some plan Of action.
Prooee^ings Hurried
When the senate *feembled prompt
ly- at ll o'clock to^ay, praotloally all
the administration senators, were in
their seats waiting lor die uaual round
of morning business to be paseed over
so Senator^ Stone could make the
agreed motion 4e tahlO^the Gore resolu
tion.
To- hurry thei^|Htteodir(i -tt was
agreed to dispense wltti reading the
absent. orUUrf and petitions. (lodr, crowd
ed with senators anff-'neftresentBtlves
he t^t tbepGlpr» resolution fol-| the galleries paefcod by a throng
-r. which" included th^i presidepit's wife.
the United States Is
ijapplW'^t"
fairly hummed with .expectation
1
UgerentnationS, 'and,
"Whertllk St *ffw«iually the desire
and ^e-Jpte*ast«'o the- American
Stenator Gore, aqtSjt^ resolu
tion which tlte admU£tstra,tlOh foitM
were ready to kill, SW|| #ltp yeatorday
made the sensation^ jEe&a-nifcton thdt
pjsople tfi-repa^ni^t peace with all, he had heard Pretode^rwiki^B. expebt-
American
I on nnaihmed bel»
has rtfeehtly re
guarantees of 're-.y
rigfat 4f Amwifea^i the riilea rf
favet'.
on,varme«
0^, ed wpV with to his
ijrosident has seat by his Hecretary.' Sfhe idmlnis-
cently •Aresh and algnal tratkm leaders, ccmfla^ achd preparod,
sat back awaiting the.pT^POi^^oment.
of nMlperlorlty of dip
it^btiry as a method of
attldatfi^liaputes, and,
Ofondlng U'u8iiies^7#ai
fflldfyclosed
and Senator Stqne asked Uat the Gore
I resolution be laiA befdro tho ^senate.
Sentutor jlqOymbgf, r^piuMtoui, of
Noith Dakou^-offered s^ftlturte to
r«iten
MAfiii
-If
't'^M
Italian Liner Sail* .'
Front New York With
American9 on
Board
NeW York, March 3.—The White
8tar liner Canopie, which sailed
today for Italian ports with three
Americana in her first oabin, will
take en armament when she arrives
at Gibraltar, it was announced by
the White Star line today. The
armament will be removed when
the ship again arrives at1 Gibraltar
on her return trip, it was stated.
The notification that the Canopie
would be thus armed was reoeived
by the White Star line early today
from the British admiralty, it waa
announced, and the order slso in
cludes the Cretie, plying between
Boston and Mediterranean ports,
and whioh was due at Gigraltap
yesterday.
The Cretie left Boston Feb. 2V
When the McCumber substitute had
been read. Senator Stone4 again called
for the Gore resolution and It waa laid
Senator Gore was on his feet asking
recognition.
Gore Seeks a Change.
Senator Gore than offered a correc
tion on his resolution to make it dei-'
clare the sense of the senatte that the
death of an American citizen on an
armed tnerchan-tshlp wopld be a just
cause for war.
bU9v AUt W QI
Senator Gatllnger "asked that .4h»
original resolution be react' That was
done and the vice presld»Ht'"Srderaff
a roll call oh a motion to fable Sena-'
tor-Gore's correction, whlrfh 4t jnraa~dB
clded had to be "considered separately.
The vote, was thereupon. t*kOn
Wtfsertfr Portion ftr^eafed.
President Wilson's, posjg^n jn
(nteriiational' sy|aatioa
susnMiriiie »itb- reBigrtafl&a of- Ozesttasy -Bryan, that
oUt iiotte^ ''6r warning of ari armed''the ,Unlted States could convi^cte Gec
meTcharit vessel of her public .onemy, many that it was earnest fen ,the quea
resulting in. the. death of a citizen of tion of submarine warfare.
krOM 'to explain that S^natOF»i tmltBcr States w^ouJM constitute a The president ^ntioned.. this fact. to
Mktilnburv democrat,' was absent oh
1
Just and sufficient cause of war be- show his belief that further action, by
m.M. He -oid tha.t if tween the United States and the Ger- congress would weaken the position of
SSt Ail^^?5puld have,man empire^ |the United States abroad.
vntla on. the original resolution. Several senators-claimed- -that the While both Secretory Lansing .and:
icraJi misunderstanding' double, form of the question, was re- Ambassador vOn-Bemstarff hi^e de-
w"^«~Vxplalning the sponsible for their voting against Jt.
I Immediately after, the-vote In the attributed to-'the presldent ^n tbe.pos
senate, Senator Reed, democrat, read a sibility of jwar, It was learned today
statement saying he felt it was highly that mention of the result,of a bre'$k
important that the- impression' Ger- in diplomatic relations had been dte
many has that the country and con- eussed lnfornially by the secretary
and
gress was not behind the president the ambassador late in January .-pi
should be removed and that therefore, this year.
attHhut ®a W?he:Sres«den?
afteitSa
The authority from whom this in
formation was obtained saict it should
be
und,erstood
ferred with Acting Chairman Pou, of *^e senate. Senator Reed assailed t{le
the rules committee, determined to sensational discussion In "the senile
have a vote-in the house even if a spe- yesterday. "I believe the effect of those
cial rule containing the resolution was utterances yesterday are tp. assert tlj$t
required to get It. •In
To Hold Secret Meeting.
Chalrman^Fiood expressed the hope /urtner toggea- rather than
that a satlslactory resolution would be
above party politios and for that
tHe democratic tqembers to arrive at
that the
was
only expressing his own POrsonai
Anltiinna nnH that fha rvinvatvstlAn
doubt that the administration victory opinions and that the conversation
in the senate would, solidify the senti-
wittl
Mr*.
L*anaing 'was infor^%l
wae
ments during the day. Deplores Sensationalism,
President Wilson, after he had con-
not to be regarded ap^sjgplfl^an
ln
connection with his statement in
this
Insistent that a vote be taken by the the interests of Germany, rather t)t»jt
rules committee if necessary came those of the ljnited States," he said
after various reports as to the .'Stand .-"There has been much talk of tralt
of the foreign affairs- oqmmlttee. As crs. I believe it wou'.d be. difficult, to
yet no rule4 has' ~be«i agreed' upon in And in the United States 1,000 men
the latter committee and there was no who could not assert the highest de
pdsltlve assurance, today that any res- gree of loyalty.'"
olution' would he reported by it.
nation are those considering
Senator Jones, republkjan, declared
the tabling of th» resolutions had
clarified
any lssue
Senator Borah upheld the right of
Americans to go on armed merchant
men. He said the senate, "the highest
legislative body in the World," had
been "Germanized" ap "if directed by.
the kaiser from the throne."
MERCHANTMEN NOT TO ATTACK.
Great Britain Defines Attitude of
Armed Merohant Ships.
London, March *.—The British ad
miralty last nigiit officially sha.de pub
lic the admiralty's ordeiv to anpfid
merchantmen given Oct. 30) 191£. 1?he
^orders say 'ttet» tfce anuaateht of such
vessels musti be tnsed 'for'TOslirtlng an
attack by artca^med vem^^uid fw tio
Other putposo: a 'if t- '$•
As British fetlbtoirlhes M& aircraft
are ordered cn«£t» approach teetv^afli
-men, the- ord*r« tttfr. "the ApJ^oach 'io
a -British merfcHantman of a subuai^he
Is to be regarded as^done irlth a hostile
Intention Th^ off!c!il stat^pisttt r^auS
.-"In view 'of" th#- recent lspi|p by the
German government of a tnemordii
dum on the treatment of armed mer
chant ships tho '«i4miralty has de^i^il
to make public! the instruotions acth«tl
3y governing the action^ of Brittth
merchant-vessels armta'.Asr self de
fense. ••••Jr-. i-
Hold Right AdmSfbd.
'Tnstruotlons dated S0&v of Oo^6er,
1916, re the status of armed me«8Am
ships: .' '-v
"1. The right of the enAr of a nti»
oMunt vessel to foroi^ inif
search and light ln se^f«d»tenaa ig
recognised In laternatii
expressly admitted by
safes rsgs!at!en tr. *h:
with sueid June. 1914. at a tiire
uest- that numerous me*
S
#•', ,t KRV-' J'
MARSHALLTOWN, IOWA* FRIDAY, MARCH 3* 1916
them to expand or set up on striking
a man. iSThse of explosive bullets
trovnr
TV
PORTUGUESE SEIZE
MORE TEUTON SHIPS
Flag Hoisted on All of Kaiser's Ves
sels in Harbor of Goa, India—Ger-'
mans on Board Interned Plan in.
Line With New Poliey.
London, March 3.—Lloyds agents at
Bombay report that the Portuguese
flag has been hoisted on all the Ger
man steamers lying at Morniugao and
that tbe Germans who were aboard
&ave been interned at Panjim.
[Panjim, or New Goa, is tjie capital
of the Portuguese colony of Goa, in
Itidla. It was recently reported that
the Portuguese g6vernment, after re-
Witt was 23.
Tex.
weakening.1
Many persons are taking temporary
refuge in the highlands.
TWO HANGED FOR MURDER.
Witt came from
vfel'Paso,
'"Tp^'flF^. 5KfWf7^ ram
GERMANS RENEW
tbe purpose of-resjstlng attack by an
armed enemy vessel and must not be
used for an other purpose whatso
ever.
"3. annad. merchant vessel,
therefortitanust "hot In any clrcum
stanoea-Jnterfere with or obstruct the
free passage at other merchant ves
sels or dtfhing Waft, whether these are
friendly, neutral, or hostile.
"4. The atatas of a British armed
merchant^vessel can not be changed
upon t)yf bich seas.
,a-.»eH-Defense Rules.
"Rulttf^to be ^observed in the exer
cise of the right of self-defense:
"i.. The master or officer In com
mand is responsible for opening and
ceaslngsiire.
"J. Participation In armed resist
ance must be confined to persons act
ing under the orders of the master or
the officer in ^command.
"8. Before opening Are the British
colon) must be hoisted.
•"4. Pfcre nt$6t not be opened or con
tinued from a vessel which has
stopped, haulW down its flag, or other
wise indicated Its .intention to sur
render.
"5. The expression 'armament' in
cludes not only cannon but aflso rifles
and. machine guns in cases where*these
have been supplied.
"ii. Thie ammunition used In rifles
and machine guns must conform to ar
ticle 23, Hague convention IV.. 1907—
that Is, bullets must be cased In nickel Paris, March 8.—Bombardments and
or other hard substances and must not1 attacks on the part of German troops
be split ot\®ut In such a way to cause
Fighting Being Conducted
With Redoubled Violence*
Says Paris Report.
TEUTONS CAPTURE
DOUAUMONT VILLAGE
Fighting Continues in Vicinity With
Ferocity and German Losses Are Re
ported Heavy—Effort to Tslfe Village
of Vaux Fails—German Artillery Ao
tiv« at Other Points Raider Re
ported Outside of Virginia Capes.
con
I
a®JjUjti!kNYYARDS:vlof"»-
\uSi'
before the aenate. Thereupon Senator OeljPone FiUlly Injured and
James, of Kentucky, moved that the
resolution and ail substitutes be laid on
the table.
Two Missing as Resdlt of Rear End
Collision on New York Central Rail
road,
Albany, K. Y., March 3.—Two men
are known to be dead, a third was
'probabty fatally injured and two oth
era.are Relieved to have been killed In
a rear end collision" in the North Al
bany yards of the New York Central
After a brief parliamentair^ljEu^nSIUoad'hVe this morning. The dead tnf
he. was permitted t^e subjmfthe cor
rection of hi# resolution but when he
sought to discuss it he w.is shut off
on objection by Senator James. The
correction was then read and Senator
James moved that it be included in the
motion to table the original resolution
and ..all substitutes.
and injured we^e express messengers,
loalded vttttt lleavy automobile parts.
A" tUd train, also '-«mat bound,
ondMi tnto' ^the wradc, throwing de
fi agadirttoHffaa. ..^onM^M'-^the
IMPIRH-V E^fTOR.
v'^cr -t'lJoa^rWorfc-aof Spies..
I^wvldencerB. 1.^ March S.-r^t Je
i4**6US JbUi|ie^'6nd explosion ofttyrred yl
^laiit. ntefft in the.-rooptf: p.t' imffi K.
fiathom, editor of the#rovidence Jour- b:
aal* Mr. Rathom-:Wa^ seated at his 1
desk and was tovered with debris. GERMAN RAIDER NEAR COAST.
„.The Providence Journal has been I
tlnued all yesterday evening In the
reelon to thB north of
la forMMee.^ ing to announcement made by the
PiTif
French war office this afternoon. This
riUAItr'TTlvJSI^Xk. ill fighting was conducted with redoubled
s'l I Near Douaumont several, fruitless
endeavors on the part of the Germans^
were repulsed with cruel losses for
them. Nevertheless the Germans suc
ceeded in reaching the village of Dou
aumont, where the fighting continues
I with ferocity.
I Leave Many Dead.
The village of Vaux also was at
tacked by the Germans but these ad
vances wero__chedfffid by the French
0re and' the Germans were compelled to
retire, leaving a great number of dead.
The bombardment continued with
last night in the Woevre district,, but
force4l held the
as was one of !he missing men. The check by their curtain of fire.
fifth is believedyto have been a tramp.: The artillery of the Germans has
A hoasfy eiast bound freight struck a, been active ln the vicinity of Malan
tnaln loaded with express waiting to court and neais Haucourt.
enter Alb^^ station, smashing a ateel —,—
coach in WfcTcti the massengers were Take Village of Douaumont.
ridinK a- iM%ig«ratoir car and a car Berlin, via London, March 3 —Ger
man troops cleared the village of IKvi
aomont and pushed their lines to the
west and to the south of the village
and.of the armored fort yesterday, ac
cordlng to the official announcement
todajr.-.
Washington evidence against Boy-Ed Grayson, arriving here from Porto "That evenln.T they rallied and drove
an4-."Von- Papen which resulted In their Rico. us from the worts. but next morning
dlsifalseal by order of the president. 'Captain iMunkewltz said that early we charged again and drove them out.
yesterday mysterious lights had been": We had shelled them during the night
-vk:': i'/kx &/-• -iy':^4,^'Vyy Ml:,™
oermans ln
The i»tatement adds that more than
S^^^vilsoners ^were t^en aid also a
number^^*»Vy %wM:wei*- gapfewed.
statement delates that
affmen'dropped-bombs in the
fity of the m&iu Vcrclnr. fort and ading
^German aviators
tish biplane.
Prominent since the outbreak of the Mysterious Ship Lurkina Outside Har
wa,r in exposing the operations of, bor a^ Norfolk.
(Supposed agents of the central powers^fcrew Y^Tk. March 3 A report that
lu- th© United nStatea who have beeii^st German5 commerce raider or prize
With Being responsible for at- Ws lurklhg off Cape Henry, Va..
munltlons
»waiting a favorable chance to make
plants and public buildings. a dash for Newport News or Norfolk.
v» JDditor Hathom was active in pre-' was brought her© today by Captain vacated.
.sending to.ithe government officials at Munkewltz of the Bull-Insular liner grand battle.
T.-R. BULLETIN.
NEWS OP~THE DAY
The Weather,
Sun rises ^laroh 4 at •:i*9. sets at S:$5.
Iowa Fair tonight and Saturday)
warmer Saturday and in west and cen
tral portions tonight.
PAGE ONE.
Telegraphic News:
Wilson "VMns First Round at Battle.
Senate Refuses to Warn Americans
Off Stilus.
Verdun, accord-
Gore Resolution Defeated by Ze
cislve Vote.
Defense Plans Come Up In Congress.
Attacks on Verdun Renewed.
Germans Capture Village at Enor
mous Cost.
PAGES TWO, THREE AND FOUR,
lows News
Groom-Elect Missing.
&t. & Sit. L. Wins Suit.
District Roads Meetings.
Iowa Holds Stallion Record.
Kenyon Favors Warning.
All Iowa -For Cummins.
seen from his ship apparently moving' and when we retook their trenches we
westward. He said heavy weather and
clouds prevailed off the Virginia coast
and that he was satisfied the vessels
whose lights he had seen were trying
to keep their movements secret. He
felt sure that the lights did not belong
to British cruisers, as these patrol
ships make no secret of their move
ments.
GBRMAN8 LOSING HOPE.
qulsltioning all the German and Aus- French military authorities have
trlan ships- lying fn Portuguese har- learned the importanee attached by the
bore, had given orders that all Teuton German officers-to tho battle.
vessels in Portuguese colonial ports French wOundOd brought Into Paris
should likewise be taken over and put, from the battle-front'declare that their
under the ^Portuguese flag.
LEVEES ARC WEAKENING.
Apprehension Felt For Safety of Torras can keqp the ,crown prince out of Paris,
and Bayou Sara Residents. If defeated, then Germany's chances of
New Orleans, March 3.:—Apprehen
sion was felt here today for inhabitants
forcing a satisfactory peace are slight,
Germans? Hopes Dwindling.
fbbut Torras and Bayou Sara, where Already, according to the captures. Representative Frank
levees last night were reported to he tho Germans' hopes for success have
Weakened by high water. At Torras a 'dwindled, ao.d..Pany admit that tno Buchanan, of Illinois, against United
private protection levee which guards kaiser'* plan, for penetrating" the states District Attorney Marshall may
the2 town was reported
Ox nam and Witt Executed. For Slay
ing William Afexande'r.
San Francisco, Match 3-^Charles E
jT. Oxnam was hanged' today at San "Most of- soldiers of my regl- will not~honor their demands.
Q»«?w?in penitentiary ais£ Glsnrt Wiii msnt arc*of ths-sarr.^ age as my own. it is contended that if the evidence
Was hanged at FoDsom penitentiary for Many of us were In. school together' which the government baa gathered
the murder of William Alexander, for- I when, the war began, but already we concerning labor plots of the Gerinan
mefiy of-Dallas, Tex at Los Angeles, have seen sufficient service to- class propagandists were revested at'Ahia
a year ago. Oxnam waa'l9 years pld us as veterans.- (time, serious impediment sroold. ba
''-1 "For mors than half a year I have' placed ln the way of furthw progress.
been in thV trenches. I was sent to jtr. Marshall's desiro to protect the
V.Russian Hold For Murder.
thristiania, Norway, v)a London, gaged therp. plat weeks ago came the
March SV—On the arrival of the steam- order of Onr transfer to the. French
shiik Oscar II. from New York, the'po- front. We were told by our officers that
'lle$ upon request of the American we were on our way to take part In the
legation, arrested a Russian passenger, fcr$afc7 flUfl Vfctory. of the war.
'Jof^r Holubowski. accused of murdar
ln*1»«ninsylvanla. Holubo#»iki who was
jbekitha for hi* homo In Russia main- we h»d the greatest confidence a«d the
i!t|A his Innocence but says he will not belief among *i-wa« that we would
•Mat extradition. |aad ho resistance worm -speairing of.
PAGE FIVE.
Farm Newn
Federal Control of Bgg Shipments.
Mark Large Litter Sows.
Uncle Sam, Esquire.
PAGE SIX.
Editorial:
Replacing .the Saloon Revenue.
Spring Shooting.
Speaking For Iowa.
Topics of the Times.
Iowa Opinion and Xotes.
PAGES SEVEN, EIGHT, NINE, TEN,
ELEVEN.
City News*.
•More March Farm Deals Swell Ag
gregate.
Bid Fair to Bound Million Mark.
Rock Island Goes to Three-I.
National Commission Makes Ruling
Board of Control Regrets Horton's
Resignation.
PAGE TWELVE.
Markets and General:
(Liverpool Gains Boost Wheat.
Corn Prices Lifted.,
Cattle Trade Sternly.
Hops Hold at Thursday's Levels.
IHobson Trying to "Come, Back."
ours were shelling the French lines.
It was stupefying.
"Under the most terrific cannonad
ing my regiment assaulted a hill a few
miles south of Beaumont. Almost ln
an instant, It seemed, half our men
were killed or wounded, and the other
half fled, with the exception of sixty.
"I was among the latter. We had
almost reached the French trenches
when their mitrailleuses stopped us.
Fortunately we were able to sur
render, or our stay on earth would not
have lasted ten minutes longer."
Soldier Describe* Attack.
French soldiers brought here to re
cuperate from wounds describe the
flghttng at Verdun^ as the fiercest ot
auW war. A soldier said todaxi
"We knew wh*a the Geignan* were
ready to attadk by the terrific cannon--I
tbat
It was the beginning of a
found them filled with dead. It was
a terrible picture in the cold, gray
dawn./
Fearful Cost to Teutons.
"The main flKhting seemed to be to
the left of our front, and we expected
we were about to receive a little well
earned rest, but suddenly there came
another attack from the woods to the
east.
Our,mitrailleuses
of
Soldiers Surprised at Resistance
FrOQeh at Verdun.
Paris,. March 3.— 'If the French are
Victorious It wil' be the end of Ger
many."
with that epigra^ ringing in their I
minds countless thousands of German
i-i'oops threw away their lives in the re
peated assaults upon Verdun. From
captives taken in the last week the
coun
Washington, March
gressional committee
cbar®es
mea
French front has heen completely up- decide today whether to force an issue
set. on the question whether it may inspect
Many of -the German prisoners taken the minutes of tlte grand jury which
at Verdun -'are exceedingly young indicted Mr. Buchanan, David.L«^nar
Which Indicates,. military critics de- and others connected with" Labors'
clare that Germany has called upon Peace Council.
every available soldier to aid in the as-j The 'committee has requested Mr.
sault upon Verdun. Onie of them, a, Marshall to submit the mihutes and
Serbia when my enlistment began, and minutes of the grand jury is because
fornix- month»rn»y regiment was en- there may be more hearings and new
gaged therp. plat weeks ago came the indictments.
Reaistanea^
:sn. tho %atfie of Verdun began
I v^-- ^w«P9tvf wanit wS. ready te be today by
Mbf George Ttoid, the Avi.trallaii h!*h ^ani *un» began covering dor u,Ohile. aaoceetthtt
isa crack efcei'irlthapdradvancewefound that the-French F^etohw. axvolnted anibau^do^
us harder thsn- M«xWa
w^H
/J ,0
1 1
wv
broke fro^. their lines and
shut down a we waited tranquilly. We were-ready
for them. "My regiment was ordered
to occupy a little hill in the Woods
which dominated Haumont The Ger
mans. with large artillery, were de
termined to take the. woods at what
ever CO.-'+.
"Directly before us was a force of
500 boches. We decided they were bad'
neighbors, so we chased them from
their position after a short bombard
ment and held the trenches they had
were ready,
however,'and once more the Germans
were betften back.
"In that last attack only two on our
side were wounded. The attack and
ter attack cost the Germans fear-
ful losses. Six times my regiment
moved back to give room for the 75s
to work and then moved forward again
when the Germans were driven off.
Each attack was a veritable hecatomb
for the Germans."
MARSHALL REFUSES
TO DELIVER MINUTES
captured fbtaneh'look upon the drive ..
upon Verdun as the probable turning Congressional Committee Investigating
point of thewar. If successful, accord-1
ing to the Germain viewpoint, nothing
Buchanan Charges Denied Right to
Record of Grand Jury—May ^Decide
to Force Issue.
3.—The con
investigating
"epreseniauve rra
Mr. Marshall has informed them that
It had developed today tltat i/lr. Mar
shall is declining to surrender tW min
utes, and was acting upon the instruc
tions of Attorney General Gregory in
Washington.
JJ{3R9?S'
Wilson Nominates 8hes.
Washington. March 5.—Joseph H.
Shea or-Seymour, ind., waa nominated
Ktir-'-i^fj
®8
•WM
ft
...dri
Weather liar Iaw«3
tee Pave Way Epr Im*
m^ate Action.
PEW STRENGTHS
The house bill calls for an tnoreasa
in the army to a total peace strength
of approximately 700,000 men. This
would include 170.000 4JS*on
national guardsncyen and about 100,000
federal volunteers.
In completing its bill the house com
mittee decided not to provide apeciii
cally for the construction of a plant to
manufacture nitric acid from tha air.
Fletcher Praises Navy.
An encouraging report on the con
dition and efficiency of the nation's
sea forces was given the house naval
committee by Admiral Frank Watch
er, commander-in-chief of the Atlan
tic lleet.
In individual lighting efficiency
Admiral Fletcher declared, tha dread
naughts of the United States led tha
world, while in the skill of its of
ficers and men the navy had no rea
son to fear comparison "with that of
any other power.
NORRIS ADDRESSES BANKERS*
Explains Bond Issue For Permanent
nu«di in ro!k County*
Des Moines, March 3.—In an address
to tho Des Moines Bankers' Club, D. W.
Xorris. editor of the Marshalltown
Times-Republican, said that a million
dollar bond issue would furnish every
road leading out at Des Moines for a
distance Of three miles with a bricic
pavement sixteen feet wide and that
for nine miles further the roads could
be paved wtih concrete nine feet wide,
wtlh gravel on each sldei. He said evory
road in Polk county could be graveled
without increasing the tax levy at alL
In closing he said:
"Build your roads now and
them as^ou pay for them."
Ml
Cotiti*m«dF«l^
^varf$?
r:-^
=ees#^,"x
NUMBER 54
House and Senate Coanmit*
OF 700,fl00 MEN
I
wtd Army lneludM 178^000
rs, 425j000 National Guardame*
^ind 10Q.OOO Federal Volunteers—Son*
ate Committee Ready ta Report
Measure to Upper House—Leader*
Plan to Push Bills Speedily*
1
Washington, March 3—Congress will
have before it within tho neat few
days, possibly tomorrow, the first of
the national defense meaaurea^'^'-j^S
This was forecast today as a result
of the rapid progress made oa the
army bills ln committee. The house
committee reported a flnai agreement
yesterday on its bill for an increase ln
the army and tha senate committee
planned to take a final vote on its bills
teda".
PEACE STRENGTH 700/XW. wt
I
House Committee Agrees en Bill to Be
Reported Next Week.
Washington, March 3.—Final agree
ment was reached the house mili
tary committee late 'yesterday on tta
bill for the increase of the army, and
it will be reported unanimously to the
house early next v.-eek.
In round figures the measure would
authorise the formation of an army
composed of regulars, national guards
men, and federal volunteers with a
total peace strength of approximately
700,000 men.
It provides for a maximum strength
of 170,000 fighting troop* for reg
ular army, for a minimum, of- 48&,<M0
for the national guard within
aad for organisation of fedeisajt
teers thru an extension .ag..' wunmfat...
ttainthr camp id«a. It ls'sibn^aii that
iOO.OOO men can ba enrolled in lfca iat»
toPC*-
Must Give U. S. Arms Piu\i.
The bill retains provlsioa far or
ganization of Industrial and techni
cal reserves behind the fighting lines
and authorizes the creation of a board
of officers to control an industrial
mobilisation in time of war or Im
minence of war. It also provides that
manufacturers of war materials must
give immediate preference to govern
ment orders in war time, 6r when there
is danger of war.
While the minimum stregnth of the
regular army remained at 140,OOO, a
change was made before tha Haal
vote to fix the maximum of fighting
troops at 170,000, bringing the total
authorized strength of the regular
force, including tho hospital corps and
other nonconibatants troops, to 190,000,
WATSON PAYS PENALTV.W.^ J:
Wife Murderer Is Eleotroeuted at Sing
8ing Prison.
Oseining, N. Y.. March 8.—Walter
Watson, of Brooklyn, was electrocuted
at Sing Sing this morning for th«
murder of his Wife a year ago. Wat
son protested his Innocence to th or last.
Watson was separated from his wife
at the time of the murder, which he
was supposed to have committed while
under the influence of drink. •'%.
MOUNET-ftULLY DEAD.
Noted French-Tragedian and Dean ef
Cetnadle Franosise Panes. .-.
Paris, March 3.—Jean Mounei%8ally
the celebrated French tragedian and
dean of the Coraedie Francois*?* 1* dsswt.
at the of 75. ..
Adopt Prohibitien RetelutiOfrSr
•, Fort Stadison. M&rch 3.—The Port
Madison Mbtistorial Association, todiir
forwarded to Washington wnnijiiiiia*
adopted at a meeting yesterday* The
muiwuuin Savored a federal- aitewad*'
ment providing for. the. »rdWhitw» «i.
to the manufacture abd sale of into£i3fe|",
"'lag Uqnora 'v...
1
wsa
"fa
