Hi hmIH
M m
ntlK-mtfoiiii'UtPl'rimlnjrnml 111 II 1 i-?iPftiljlP?tSS 3ill ill ll ill IBpl
Kumllnic wWlilWimwil n ll I I rT?0El?f3iHS5Sk I I I I c.,N, Int., tlm home of more Car- I ?"
u.kc III inl "il Junction. 5 yfc- AWIte'BlVP 2aS2L 1 I I II II II, Nm emt) n.i.l lj.il.ni I tali people J "(HPl
K (rtiimmW print i.g of ever, ST vN- jfgJ-MJ JHbSy aXSy 3nV P' limn mi mliir niPniHr iuMw!l , !,
Band description, llrlcfij, iwiu. ...,, n nt ,,i.n ll.o nulAtrlpUcm hooka ?
K,a.Mn.RHlorknl.lnnjr.lnr POLTICALLY REPUBLICAN rilic.SimiiivHiil.iUii. liiclon ' HPl
inldl.lMr.lcv. Mk for estimate. Hntcred a. 8e n i r-i ,. V-UU I , n C. rU DUIOMIN . of an) advertl r e.r pn..peellvc or. 1 ,jA
j, order ii MHflntiy. 7". . -- llna JMlter June I 1J15 nt the Poatoffl o nt Price. Utah. Under ttio Act of March J. 1879 'f '"' "" "f " "J- ""H f I JHPl
' JkUMh 1; NUMHKlt JO utrnTu- rTTTI inMiitem.i . V'HHl
mj . lvkk rniDAY march n, ioio ' , VH
ttle and hogs;
beepjmd wool
UUMIX ,N T,,i: KlfI"S
XT MUII IIIlHt I'lI'llA
Lrr m colcr Illtl Up Hitting
, (k Itccenl ilnli?ie Ijiuib
i IH-nutml nml niuinl Tm Cent
iilirrTImn I or Un' Prctlmu Week
Colorado Mm Mnrket Hlg loti,
j rjtT . The Sun
iHtlT Mo 1'cb 3J Cat
iline 1 lwcnt-rivc to thlrt-
,nli i t cek ill' ,,,c Improved
It n v n not full realized l
ir i nti' tlir legan to get re
. fr m their sale thl mornliiR
lpt t lav were thirteen thou
heal nnd tin market wan strong
rf the closing sale ten cent
fr The general feeling prevail
it I higher price arc hilled for
nrr f tiri lust rtuw here to-
Ir mlit HBO which doe not
ale the strength of the market.
f the rnnk and flic of the cattle
tOO t) IX "5 xer few teern lic-
i(9 and n Rood man) ihI
nd IS 50 Of coumc, prime
t ulri lie nlon 9 00 now A
nrr t l wan the arrival of tltlr
r l tti urn of Rood itcerii from
Njrtli 0 I rado field and from the
jHrpm atlrv Tlienn (teem mild
i ll .0 the I ulk or them brought
Ho t M - pniitlinllv noiu below
jBi .Khl.i riinnltik from USB to
KJb lu'a and a few roiiRh ktrem
Hi i I 03 l ii mln Ni-Mirn fed bulU
ft iht fc 10 and 10 16 In tnrload
Hj i n and helfem fold MroiiK
HJ hr.i n itru now worth 17 00
HJfttc hrirrm IS SO fair to K'l
HJk er nl 10 00, bent hen) bull
HJ-. nrl ml lahew up to III 00
HlKm m 1 frrilim held up firm at
Hint nl tut though tin re wire
HJf M nil fill" Inik of iiiallt)'
Hfic tit in' nniMi mi cxtolhlnK
H 1 1 1: t I f r a IiIkIi top Rome
Hlk irlliiR that went out lam
Hlu IT 10 whl Ii lime brill round
Hl t k fliur were nluriml and rold
HB In init UHlntd thirl) poumU
HBaI In the inuinllmr Mont of the
Swnt rt k ftcrrn now Hell nboc
HI ' n I fr il m ratiRi from I? Cu
HJ' C'1 a fc fliiiliv Ktrem IxIiir In
Hi t lcn ir a liult bitur
B K it 1 1 . 1 1 utre lirii thoUiutud
Hp in-irktt fiftt.n to twenD-flvc
HJ) hikhrr lli.in Ha'tirda), nnd leu
H c' the lint tlmu lnt wiek,
Hv ' ! mi at hlRhent nuiKc lme
m r k Ii t i) tober The fiatiirn
1 iv drnnnd from order bujrm
!l I me nt t KuKtern pulntK. thin
HP" Miik lllerall) Mwnmped with
HPri mtin of which tin) tould
HjH1'1 I'tiktrn Rot In ti ami
HV I P t the tup, thoilRll the lllln
Hff :r'l;r lunrn picked the cream
lie ir p oir at IS 2S to IN SO,
HJljt' r the top prlte A Rood mini)
Ht l udd at IS IS to 8 25. nnd
Hff- ' nil ilK wan 8 IS to IB 15
Hfr I In the runt, and decrcnilnR
HP1!!1 nt Wattrn marketN, with n
HV111'!1' "int. ilt inn ml for the
H1 ntikm the Iior proapict tcr
Hf"k'
HP't-rp nnd lumlm Hold utronR to tell
HJF' '"nl" r bt it nalen at the clone.
HBl'u nvr" fourteen thoummd
HP:, "even tarn of I nml n brought
l0 r:l'l' or the three ftedlnir tllif
HP' ,f C'lorado having In in I nt
Hf ' ' I In and tho Tort Colllnn
H ' ' mtrlbuted two caw of cwe
Pi) ulnri.nlne poundii average,
H lilglum price of the winter for
Hf" Medium to common lamtw
Hr'J "" I" 110 78, and feuding
PS ut 'luotablo up to 10 26, bent
FinRn around 110 00, wetlirrn at
Blll WK1I, tl.ll WOltTII
HJ USi: to IIM.l' , 'MILLION
Htlnlah IJrtHln vvoulkrowrra will ex
HXn n exieedlngly profitable
V ir tint price h continue to ad
f il- iar an they did lant, nujn
Him tree 1'rvn Iteportn come
H Mih e allc t. the effect that
ir the nlicitmicn nf that nectlon
Milling Orn ii (nlder, John Hack
Hj'""' lh" "(niilonn Imve noli) their
V at tweiuv fno ieu. ijmi )ear
Hf , "M"n t twintj-one centn,
K M"m "" 0Wr M,( tn,e ur
William t'tijemmr who return
HE,' ".'J ?U lj,k l P recentl) In
Ht i ' rce I'rucs-Oint name nalen
,,etn mnile In Northeantern Utah
jilRh an twentj-nlx centn, an In
'e of three ienU a pound over the
Hf Paid In Carbon count but a
''ct'ka ago
H In reanonuble to nuppone that the
H 111 ko to thlrt ienU before
Hj "'a0n lonen. Two jearn ago
Hr" i',en,l, wa connldered a big
V' There are two hundred tlious
Hneep In the 1'lntah itanln und
,,"' lwl'l In about 1,600,000
K .. At ,,,,rt' con Pound It
BMi'Mh 1480 000 juit double what
pmroiiglU two earn ago The ntat.
Hr"B" ""en mnde tha owing to the
Ktnat nearly all the nheepownera
H ta feed their nheei thin winter
Ht .1.,,ro,lu W0UIJ le cut down
Hri'tui
HfU Idea la refuted by a number
jomlnent heepmen In thU vUln
Wt . Malm ,hat fJlng give a
Hr leld of wool and a finer cmal
nuaually clipped from ranging
(Continued on page neven )
ANOTHER PEACE TREATY ABOUT TO BE SIGNED.
ik ' jap ' Ma
UTAH POWER AND LIGHT
TO BEGIN WORK AT ONCE
Utah I'ower and Light coiiihiii In goliiR to build to Carlton count) And
It In going m mart ronntriittloii right awii Unt TnetMla) i veiling M Cheevtr
chief ciiRlniir of that corporation with C ll Cudcrrr V I' J ronmn nml J
U Mw. civil cnglmern caint down from Halt Irfike Clt and were nt the
laviru ovtr night MicIiimmIu) morning tho In ctunpan) with J 11 Mbiiihui
went b) tiwm from lun to HprliiR (lien, and later returned to 'Ion The
purpiNH or the HprliiR (lien trip wan to lMik ovir tin holdlm, of the com
pan) llicrc where It be prMMitl to build a dbdrlhutlng nlallon for the power
line. AbMi to take a general look over tin etiunlr) between Trice- and Cantln
Hate
I'reint Information droipwl b) the mrt In the prewiuf of a Hun repre
sentative ll In wife to nlati that the m.nve fur the power line from Hprlng
vllle to Cidlon In alrennl) eleHlded upon In M nernl It will follow the line of
the) Di live r and lllo (lrande The route from Thlntle to Clear Creek b wa
of T Millo idle J and the old ciillto road' Into Heofleld nnd Clear Creek him
been abandoned At Collon the line will llkel) leeevc Hie railroad rlghl of
wa and cut off to the eant. coming down Willow Creek to Cantlo flate and
on to Hprlng (lien I'rom Hprlng tile n thin vn) to I'rlee no route In an tt
determined upon However, It In llkel) to nklrt the hllln to Ihe north of
I'rlee
Within the next thirl) day work In to ntnrt ut Pprlngvllle on the extm
nlon of the high te nnlun line of two wire eaHlward llh Ihe e tearing of the
weather u big ftrte- will be put on th Curlm tount) end and the two will
work In opponllo. dlrrttlonn until a connection In made Within ten dan a
corpn of mine) orn will be at work In Carbon count) The flprlngvllle line,
which ce.men from Oraee. Ida. In of two wlren carrlng a hundred and Ihree
Ihounand volln. The ceinnlructloii from Hprlngvllle to Curbon count) will lie
tho name Tlure will le Me el low era net In concrete banen nliut) fid high
and nix hundred feet apart. It In nevent.two mllen from I'rlee to Hprlngvllle
Thin conntructlon will eont around nlxttcn tliuunantl dollam a mile
hlle thin work In going on opcratlonn will alno be begun nt Hprlng Cllen
Hero man) thounandn of dollar are to be (pent on land acnulreel collie monthn
ago for a dlntrlbutlng plant What U known an ' backup' lines, will be run to
the several eoal eampn and townn aa the demand f.ir elwtrle power eomen
The Utah Power and Light In operating the Huntington lighting nnd power
n)ntem from u recentl) conntructed line out of Hiawatha One of the flrnt
decen of conntructlon will be the i.xle union of thin n)nlem from Hiawatha
Into Hprlng Olen The branch power linen are to be of two wlrejc and will
enrr) fort) -four thounand voltn The 'luikup' linen will eont around two
thotinand dollam a mile ....
Willi the leglnnlng or the work planned b Utah Power and Light com
pan) emplo)ment will be plentiful for all the men and team of Carbon and
Tiner) tonntlen at fcooel waken telle. i,hu eompan) han made no eli flnlle an
nouncement to thin effect. It In believed that It will enlabll.h office at Price;
and that thin til) In to become hcHiihiimrttr for all operatlonn In Hanteru
Utah which meann much for the elt) and Itn bunluc n Interentn ' With the
completion of t Diminution to Hprlng film and the 'backup" linen the main
Hue from Hprlngvllle will be. put through to Grand Jumtlon, Colo, where a
connection would le inueli with the Colorado n)ntem that extend on to Tel
lurlde and other Colorado mining tnmpn nnd cllle
Hucih In the&lan of construction that with tho completion of the Hprlng
Milt, line to a te milium nnwhtre In Carbon tount), the "Juice' ma) be nent
back went to help out Halt l.ake Clt). Ogden und eUewhcre that It ma) be
needed Offlclaln of Utah Power and Light are expected at Price, within the
next ten ela)a. when more of the plan of the eompan) nre expected to le
announced
READY HHIUIK
t'lali UnllmneU f.cltlnB Their Hoiich
III Order" For April
Preparation for the llfi wool crop
of Utah In being mado by the nhear
lug pena along the line of the Salt
l.ako Itouto and the Denver and lllo
Orande rallroadn At Waek Hock,
Clnto, Verde, Mounda and Mantl the
pena and )arda are being put In con
dition Wool buyeri expect the 116
irop of Utah to exceed the 115 crop
b) about 10 per cent A part of thoi
i
tollp alread) han been contracted for
In the aouthern part of tho ntate
In thin atntt (hearing la had before
the lumblng neanon, while In Idaho
anil Montana tho lambing neanon
comen before the nhearlng of the
ewen Thin la due to Utah having a
milder ullmate Owing to the earl)
clipping neanon In Utah man) of the
ewca nuffer If cold ralm tomo during
the nhearlng neanon
The greater part of Ihe nhearlng In
the nouth central and nouthweatern
part of tho ntate U being done Ly
electrlclt)
Pennaylvanta lant ear produced
2,000,000 long ton of anthracite coal
MINERS HOLDING
FIRM FB SGALE
(DM I lll'.M i: VI M.W OllK
1 1 NOW IN nUADHH K.
home or lhe 0n nileu-M WIIIIiik to
Make Comt'wloui On Quite I IIktiiI
leniin. Heel Ollicrn Will .Not .loin
I btm I-ooUm IIioiirIi NolbliU
Hut lll-imrttiiiint Will lb llciull.
MtW OHK, March 1 llltumln
nun coal mlnrr and operator from
llllnoln Imllnna, Ohio and Wcntrrn
Pennn)lvnnla npeut the da) bargain
ing In a lant effort to reach an agree
ment on a new wage ncale for the noft
coal field of the Middle Went The
coal companlca voted down the prop
onltli ll to liureant tho wage of the
minim three centn a ton above the
mine run banln and the union men. In
turn rejected an offer Incrcaalng the
rate one cent a ton
Hume of the opcrutorn, It wan nald,
were willing to nland for a two-cent
hurt nee, but the) could" not get
unanlmoun action among tho cm
plo)ern The union men Hill declare)
that three centn a ton iiImivo the mine
run Inning rate la their final rigure
If a new proposition In not forth
coming tomorrow, there, will be noth
ing left for the nuh-commlttrc to do
but report a dlnakrcemeut to the full
Joint conference
FIFTEEN MB KILLED
All the letlm Arc tru-bttl Vndir
I'all or hlalc.
KKMITON, W Vn, Tub 21 Ilf
teen men were killed and five nerloun
I) Injured by an explonlon of dint In
Mine No IS of the Davl Coal and
Coke eompan) hero toda) All the
victim were foreigner. I'lft) -one
in In urn who were nlno nt work at the
time were renuued The exploration
of the worklngn wan completed late
toda) and nil the bodlen recovered
The explosion occurred thin morn
ing nhortl) nfter the men hud tntered
the mint Tim blunt, however, did
not Interfere with the working of the.
ougm In the niuln nhaft und the men
not within range or the explosion bur
rlud to the root or tho nhaft and were
brought to the surface
According to General Huperintend
ent Malone), all victims were crushed
limit r a fall or slate
i ui:i: iol'u tow, mim:hs
or (iiwji: or Mritii:it
CVSTLi: ItOCIC Colo, Kelt if)
A verdict or not guilt) wo returned
b) a Jur) tonight In the cane or four
runner striking coal miner, cbargtd
a 1th murder In connection with the
killing, April , 10H, or Major J P
Lester during eoal strike disorder
near Walnenburg, Colo
Tho Jur) deliberated two and une
hafl hour The defcnlant. Knoch
Mulr Mlcklu Salvage, Arthur Qulnn
and l'red Oarela, received the verdict
without emotion Judge J II Dunl
son before tho verdict wan returneJ,
cautioned tho spectator to re f ruin
from an) demonstration The court
attendant and spectator Immediate
ly left the room, and outside a dem
onstration took place In which the de
fendant cheered
RANDOLPH, HAMILTON 1
AND SHARP MUST DIG j
hhhh!
Court Gives Carbon County Judgment In Ex- i jH
cess of Twelve Hundred Dollars j ;.jH
Ketchum Case Is Off. j ':
At mmn best I'rbla) Judge Mbtrt
II Chrlste nson having disposed or the
mtcnihir an for an net at that lime
adjourned dlstrle t court until Monda)
lant, the J8th However I'rbla) oven
lngH train broiiRht Allen T Hnuford
to Prlre from Halt lake Clt) and on
HAturda) morning court wan recon
vened In hear the cane of Cnrlnin
count) against J It Hhnrp, W T
Hamilton nnd llenton Itnmlolph
count) tmtmlssloner for the nlleged
mlnnppre,prlntlou of the publlt funds
The cose In the meantime three of
them had been set to null the con
venience of court nnd counsel The
action are utso against the American
Huret) eompan), Nell M Mndsen I)
V Mlckeljohn T II Thomas nnd the
llllnoln Hurcty compnn)
II) agreement or council the three
ennen were consolidated Into one nml
argued a a single case A goodl)
portion or the da) wa consumed In
the hearing Drrniilnntn b) their
counsel ntnted that the) desired to
stand on the nine tided answer with
out waiving lhc legal objection
urged Attorne) Hanford ror the dc
rendanl ndvlsed the court that he
had no objection to Judgment being
entered against the tlrft iiilnnln an
priDrd ror In the complaint on those
cause or action to which demurrer
to the amended uimwcrn were mis
mined II) consent or the attorne)
ror the plaintiff nnd upon motion or
theuttiirne) for ele re tubulin the latte r
(ibrrndniilM) were grunted n Ma) of
emotion or nlnrt) da) from the
time or entrj or JudRinrnt In the cane
pending appeal
Judge Chrlstc nnon'g ruling on Hai
tirda) Inst nml prevbiusl) In consid
ered u great vie tot) fol Carbon enllli
t) tnxpa)ern The three, cancn were
orlglnnll) Instituted b) C C McWhln
tie), nbout two )enr ago when he wa
count) attorne) Tim pre scut count)
uttormy fell heir to them, nn it were,
b) their being continued along from
one term to nnnther The funds al
leged to have been wrongfully appro
priated were spent with n bunch or
Hall l.akc Clt) law)er In the prose
cution or (lev II) m J tines, ex-count)
clerk, ex Hlit riff Tlioinn I' Keller
and C C MiUlilnno, ex-count) at
tome), while J W IMinund. an au
ditor of 'Inn, got some of ll In con
nection with the (lull) m June cane
llrleri) ntated, Ihe total Judgment
secured b) Carbon count) nmuuntn to
11210 111 Or thl amount f SCI 0J I
In the rirst cane In which there were
seven cause or uitlnn In Ihe second
case $333 31 I recovered with two
causes or action, and 1153 70 In the
third case, whloli had lour cause or
action embodied In the complaint
riled Whether or not nn appeal will
be taken to ihe supreme court At
torne) Hanford did not slate before
hi return to Halt Lako Clt)
Kitt hum l.lllgutloii DNiiiUmiI.
The ease or T A Ketchum. now u
resident or Portland, Ore, against the
Pleasunt Valle) Coal eompan) where
in title to the land where now the
(own nf Castle date stand or a
greater portion of It wan net for Inst
Monda) Home thing of u nurprlne
came, however, when a motion to din
mlsH wan miijju by the attorne) repre
Minting tho Ketchum Interentn nn
Halurda) lant Pleananl Ynllc) Coal
eompan) bought thl land uround
tw ent) -six )cnr ago, han beon pa)lng
taxm on It ever since and In addition
han mado around a half million dol
lam In ' Improvements, surface nml
otherwise Any title that Ketchum In
prcnumed to have) I b) reunon or a
.deed conve)lng lo him the old Mark
enlr) or a hundred und nlxt) ucrtn,
Markn being the original locator
Utah I'uol eompan) and tho Denver
and lllo Orande rallwa) were also
named a lUremlant In the' action
Ketchum wan not here In pctrttou nt
thin term or court It had oeeti un
llclpated that tho Ketchum cano
would connumo connlderablo time
However with Itn ellnmlnnal court wan
adjourned from Mondn) until enter
da) (Thurnda) ) morning Judge
Chrlstensnn and Court llepnrter Al
der went from Prlte to Mantl, return
ing here Wcdnenda) evening Court
wan again reconvened yenterday and
In ntlll In m union an The Hun goes to
press
Siilllvim Htilug XeDonnld.
The case of P. C Hulllvun v 11 It
McDonald and McDonald Heal Kstate
und Investment eompan) came on fori
trial late esterda) forenoon und I
still being heard u The Hun got to
prime nt noon today (rrlda)) Plain
tirr sue ror un accounting during the1
time himself nnd McDonald were as
sociated toKethcr In tho aaloom bual
nena at the Oak liar, south or the
Denver and I tin (lrande track at1
Price the old John 11 Mlllburnj
place In Ihe complaint plaintiff seta
forth that he and McDonald bought
the real estate and building and the
ueloon stock, furniture and fixtures
and were equal purtner The pur
chaso price waa 13750 00 During the
partnership Mtlhoiatd I alleged In
have wild off portion of the prop- '.HPfl
ert) and to have received a rent I i:IHjHJ
therefrom n total or thlrD-nlne bun- sVjH
dred ilnlliirn. of thl sum Hulllvnii iHHI
put sfvrn htiiiilred dollar In the orlg- IPI
Intel iiurihase prbe or the balanrev Pl
or the thlrD-nlne hundred dollnm, 4vHPl
Hulllvnii nlltgen tlwit MeDonald re- mBhI
celved a rent from Maxle" Mat- HHI
tltigly, $too oni from Jessie (Iregnry; hH
(itirehnse of ground llioonn Acker- RaViVi
man A Crnlu $C00 00 from nalo of ll
ground to some cNilored people', rVJI
$3(0 00 nnd from insurance when the i iHHl
place rinall) burned 100 00 Atlnr liHjHJ
lie) ror plaintiff e lielm that the tiook tHHfl
or MeDonald will nhow a pnrlnershl jH
arrange meut The re In n balance H
due the Mlllburnn Itlnnllrgid or rive ;SH
hundred dollar or the original pur- .HHPi
eluise prlie When the case camo up !HHPl
fm trial )eslerdn) a motion b) plain- HHPi
tiff for a continuance wan denied fljVI
Judgmiiil guliiit Wntnin. HP9
The I'lrst National Hank or Price HHH
wa jeslerdn) nwarded a Judgment or ' HjHH
I5M1C. I principal $10 3 Interest and . HHPj
$5k 06 altornei) fee and court eont PVjWJ
ngnlust l'red U Wntrou the principal t BH
being ror mom ndvnnied defendant HHJ
when the tatter wa running the. I HHPi
tlaslirn t lab Advocate Wntrou kHHPj
during Ihe time had given the lunik u ffVjVjfl
ntturlt) a rewtwilr nlle and nomc wa- IvVjVjl
ter lotatlonn up around Ihe liitul or BBPH
Willow Creek On Aptll 33, !!(, mVHHI
Wntrou asnlgiirel three wutir apill HHHI
cation (loentlons) to the; bunk to- IDjWjWJ
getlier with Ihe reservoir nlte to no- HtHHI
cure the pumeiil or a loan II It. IHHHI
McDouiild wan In with Uiitrtuia em VawHHl
the water und reservoir The wiilrr HHHJ
loiatloii were later irolrted b) Otto HHH
A risher nml Pre el Davidson, who jH
claim ii prior right The water and HHHJ
reservoir nVturltle are considered HjHj
worthltHiM b) those who huvt gone In- HHHI
to the matter at the slate e nglnrer' HHHl
office ut Halt Uike Clt) HHHJ
Niimrmun Oilier Cum lit HHH
Helper Hlnte bank Vn, Price Macs- HHHl
run I eompan) null on note Judg- HjHjHJ
ment for the plaintiff for 15301.9 1, HjHjHJ
costs or $11 30 and uttornrn fern of HHHJ
three hundred dollar JB
Hjrlliln Cook vn De llnle Cook) ell- HHHJ
vorce Interlocutor) decree granted HHHJ
and tho plaintiff maiden name of H
H)rllda Pierce restored HHHJ
i'lsk vn II A. Houthworlli HHHJ
and ollicrn, suit on foreclosure Judg- HHH
rnenl for principal of nolo and Inter- HHHJ
est and one hundred dollar attorney' HjHjHJ
fee The note arc for $300 00 ami HHHJ
$110 30, renpectlvel) HHHJ
Albert Dlmlck v Ulnh Fuel com- H
pan), damage. Motion ror new trial H
argued and matter taken under nd- HHHJ
le ment by the court. f HHHJ
U o Hoffmann vn. fl A Kings "lit HjHH
on note Judgment for plaintiff In H
the sum of $817 10 ami Interest. HHHJ
l M Hhlreman v Kuril King and HHHJ
W C llroekrr action In connection H
with a lease of real estate Compro- J
mist el out of court for $113 60 H
Nick Hrrlmo vn John Ne tnan and H
Htllo Klsmos suit on account Judg- H
ment for plaintiff In tho sum of H
$557 50 nnd attorne)' fee or seventy- BHHJ
rive dollar. H
Peter Jouriu and John Dlumenll HH
vn. Oust Pappan Angelo Thran and H
cithern, null on account Dismissed nf ll
plaintiffs aaVIH
Capital Kleclrlc compnn) v Harry H
O Cl)e, action on an account or PHH
$3335 40 In the flrnt eaiisti of action HHJ
and five hundred dollar In the seo HHJ
ond Dffeiuliiiit asked ror ten da) HHH
In which to file amended nnaivtr. nml HHH
twenty da) gralitcd HPJ
lleujamlu Iipex v Kufcmla Ipext HHHJ
divorce and custod) or minor child. HHH
arantcel a pra)ed ror and ten dollar HHH
u month ullnwcd ror upport or child, HHH
Murla aiullaccl v Habatlna Olul- HHHJ
Inccl. divorce on ground or donor- HHHJ
Hon (Irttnted HHH
Prlco Itlver I'rult eompan) vs J. H
C Jensen damage ror trenpatue by H
reason of defendant nheep herd H
running over land of plaintiff Con- H
tinned ror the term on application or B
plaintiff H
In the matter of the estate of Hllin. H
beth Ileaale Larnen dcresed K T. HftVH
ilorkenhagtn of Helper, appointed HBVH
administrator HBWBJ
I Judge Chrlstenson expects to ad- PSpBV
Jiiurn court tomorrow for tho term, PSpBV
The calendar for thl term should be PH
I prett) well cleaned up b) that time- R
Nlok Pappadnkla waa arrested one H
, day last week In the hills this aide of H
j Sunn) side by a deputy sheriff and HHHJ
brought to Price on a charge of au HHHJ
nault to commit murder It la alleged HHHJ
In tho complaint against the man that HHHJ
he shot at a little bo) or Charles C, HHHJ
'Clawson over near Ulaok Hawk. H
1 Pappadakla la an owner or goat and HHHJ
declare tho boy annt)ed him by HjHH
driving hln goats from where they HjHH
brought to Price on a charge of as. HflJ
were grating Puppadakla la to have 931
n hearing b fore a local Justice Jo- Hh9
