IWmg Water
M).C9 Pure
lloveriim't Tent
THE DEM1MG GRAPHIC
"A LIVK PAPER IN A LIVE TOWN "
Dealing Air
100 perct. Pure
Breathing Test
VOUMK XIV, KL'MHKR XXVII.
DKMINO, LUNA COPNTY. SKW MEXICO, FltlBAY, MAIil II :i. 1010
O OSES FOS
ES RiVER ROAD
iiniiii
State Hiuhway Commission Is to
Place the Structure Between
Spalding and Jacobsen's.
TEST HOLES BEING PUT DOWN
Luna County Road Board Has Chos
en Colson Crossing as Location
tor Bridge It Will Build.
Tin' New Mexien lliyhwuv Cnm-
lllissillll is II. IW pilllillK lloWII ll'sl
holes fur ii brid",e over I lie Miuihi'es
If i v midway lie! with SiiilliiiL' mnl
I III' .litenhsen rilllrll. Till' lornlin..
wns approved by Slnle Kniiineer
Fretieli ni his rei-enl visit Ihti-. A
wi ll ilrilliii)! mil t il is now on lilt
L'riiiinil tti 1 1 i 1 1 vr down test holes In
-it whether or not ii futiiiduiinn I'nr
piles run In- Ii hum). Tin1 I .mm n -
lv limiril litis seleeled I lie 'ul-.nn
imssini; I'nr llie new roiinly lii-hliie.
tt It sirnrntrrs will ln Imill in the
very ni'iir future.
Till' I till riinl-IUlllllll I'lVWS lll'l' in
work ithoiil twenty inili" from Hem
nit'. Tin1 inirtli mini will In l In
tir-l In In- finished nml will In- mi i-
nil. ili' il till' lir-l mint roii-i luiiinn.
Stale Kimbieer r'renrh litis tml yel I
nu.de n ili'i'isiuii in tlir niiilli-r nt' 1 1 1 ,
I'Hiiliiit! nl' I In' I'miil siiuili to Culiiui-'
litis. Nil In rt tier I'lilislrurliiin work
mil In- iluiii' mi l liis riuiil unlit l he ill--i'i-inil
is filed with I In- i'iiiiiiIv I'hiiiI
L.uird.
Wilson Wins Fight Willi Congress
Out nf ii ilny's ili'Vi'liiiini'iils in
I'lv-iili'M Wilson's I'i'lil ilh ron-
ITss, ll'owili'll III till' lllllllisl uilo
rlemi'iils of the sriisiiiioiinl nml 1 1 r 1 1 - '
unit the mliniuislriiliou forrrs ink
lln si'iinli' liisi uiulil I'luoruil willi 1
ilnlu'i's of I'lioii'.'h votrs In kill, oner
for till, Si'iuilnr (lore's ii-olnlion in
wi rn Aiiu'rii iiiis off nruieil ships of
the Klll'oM'illl lirlliuel'i'tlls, nml ileui
inislriili' llml eolii: less slmnls hr
lui'il the ii'i'siilenl in his iii't'otiiitioiis
itli lieniiunv.
Action in I hi . einite. it is lii'licvi'.l,
Mill lie Inllowi'll il'iIUitl ll.V I In' 'III
lili'i seiitiiiient in the hini-e iiuii in-l
I he iri iili iit's fiirriun ioliey.
In one nf the ureiilrsi iioii-iii'ti
mi ileliMtes the sriintr Inis seen in
i urs, rlmirmmi Sione, of I he foreiun
ri'lnt'olls eoiuiliitlee, ileehit'eil lie il-
not in i oM with I In- invsiileiit.
Si nut ir l.oiL'e, the rmikitii; rrpulili
i'iiu, iIi'iIl'i'iI his support In I lie presi
ili'iil in his ilrli'i'iniimlion to srriii'r
Aineririin rluhls mi I lie liiuli sens,
nml Semiinr )lii i Sluirp Willmnis.
jllsl liiiek from il -irk heil, ilrlivereil
it W il liel'ili!! ileliiineinlioll of the presi
ilenl's iippiini'iils. The seinite ml
jolirneil lllllil II n'elnek this lllol"ill'j.
ul.i ii the iiiliiiinislriitiiin leiuler- plmi
In liriii); up I he (lore ri'solutioii nun
I Mr it, ilisposinii nf il Iniiillv us
nil rinlniiriisiiirlit In the presiilr"! in
his eiinilllel nf lliplolllnlir ni'ifnliii
limiM with (leniimiy. They luive
loiinil I lull mil ninri' thmi '-'.'I votes
riiii lie iiiiislen'il iiL'iiinst them. In
tin Imiise, where I lie presiilenl wns
U'illt f'ii.lutr ili.lni' lit., ikrjm.i
" ' 1 ......... .... i "
nf liilllliuislriilinu Vlelnry III (lie sell
tito (fine siui.M nf i.reiikinir up Hie op- ;
Hisition, mid the lenders werf
fii'ent nf sitnilnr iielinn there.
I'OII-
Notice
M.'Xirn
Stntp nf NVw
I 'mint v (
.linn -
Tn limn il limy eniieern: nml i's-M'i-iully
In nil imtsimis wlui nre or
inny iH'i ome iiileri'sled in the i-slute
n' Ilwivhl It. Slrphriis, deeeiisi'd. lute
nf the County nf l.iimi in the tiforr
sllid Slllll' nf New Mexien.
Whereiis, mi in-lrilllirlil nil (M.rt
iim In lie Ihe Inle Will mul 'fr-l.-iiiiriil
nf Dwiuht B. Slephelis, .l. ri ilsril. hns
lieen tiled ill (lie nf'.' f Ihe Count
Clerk for pmlmte, vnu lire In-reliv
i lied In ApH"lir tH'fnre llir I'rolinti'
Court ii In held til the ol'liie nf the
Protinle Jinlui' in I lie VilhiL'e nf iMu
iiiif mi Ihe fir.1 dny f Muy. A. I.
It) Hi ul two ii'i'lnrk ill Ihe iiftei-iuioii
of siiid dny, the time set hv the sr.id
mn for the prolitiliuir nf siiid lit-l
Will nml Tilmiieiil of siiid Hwit'ln
It. Stephens, drreiised.
Wil nens niy liiiml nml sen I nf siiid
Cniirl this '.'Rlh diiv nf Kelininrv.
A. I). IttHI.
Seal
C. R. Iluplie,
CountyClerk.
N0R0HAUS SHOW WIN00WS
PRESENT SPRING STYLES
Tin Nordhmis window present
i. in- of tin brightest kmiIs mi busy
(III avenue. Dressed in tenia cot
u s, llii'v IiithIiI I In- nrrivnl of Ihe
pew spring styles in men's nml winn
er's fii rnlili's, ti'llinir mi n lit liurit ivr
slnry in n innsi ni'iisiii- way.
Tlir now sipis nml rmils nri' n ili.
lit. hi In iinv wniiinn tlmi knows kihhI
lot lies nml dikes pleasure in iiw-niii'r
Item. Tin- showing of fit rl v season
tii'llinery nml nl lii'i dress ni'i'i'sHories
nre iiltrni tivi lv .imiiipi'il nml, nil in
nil, ii lirii'l' iiisH'i'liini ol' tin iipeniiui
display should I'linvini'i' miy olii tlmt
tills IIVI' slnri' I'llll I like I'll II' III Ills or
Iht rlnlliini; need without iiieliiii
It is very seldom llml one rori-ivi1
soiiirlliHiir lor iioihinu, Inn il' vim will
v i i I I ho MiiIioiii'v -loir lor tlii'ii
IH'i'inl Miiji'stif ili'iiiniisi nil ion ilur-
nil: tin- wi'i'k iM'L'inniiii.' .Mnri'li I.I you
will In- shown how to nlihiin M worth
nt' fine kitl'lli'll Willi', illlsoliili'lv Ii
Jolly Five Hundred Cluli
Mrs. Arllmr Knithel ruin iiiinml tin
.lolly l''ivr lliinilriil Club Tliur.ilnv
iil'teiiiumi nl lirr lioini' on I'iiu' street.
Tin' lioiisi- wn, prdirily ili'i'uriiti'il
with violet nml liym-iui lis, mint'li'il
wild IVrns. Tin- l'Hi'sI of il luh
who siiiisiiuti'il I hi- mi mi nlisi'tii
iin nilirf mis Miss IHi.ultrlh Wmldill.
Mis. .1. I In rriiiuton Mi l.nutrliliu won
till' I If- I'l'l.l'. Follow inu I III' LTIHIIOS,
Mis. Ii'iiitlnl smell ii iliiiiily .
roiii'-i' I i hi'on, iiinl I hr nl'ti'i'iionii
iis .really enjoyed.
Cll MBERS OF COMMERCE OVER
COUNTRY FAVOR PREPAREDNESS
Otntiuy's Civic Body Adopts Resolu
.mil Advises Cltl?ins to Write
to Slate's Repipsmtalives in Cong
ress Urging Them to Preparedness.
The ( 'IiiiiuImTs of t'oiuiiierei' nt
llir l iiilril Si nil". Inn r iiimiiiiir:iti'il
il movement In nilliieuee eiinrresR In
nilopt n siroui; uiiiiliiry nml
iiiivnll
polirv. Ueemi.e New Mrsirn is 11 '
In liter sinte il hiii
i" t in treiiulht'iifii
i periiliur i r-1
the iiiitinnul ile-j
ti'ii-e-. Iii'iiiin.; . takint; the lend
fo llir olilllrl'li pnl't of I he -lull'
in in. n.' evi'iMiiii. o use his inl'lii-
etiee to till VI' u Inw
(jl'ess In lieller fit
iefeli-e.
riiin tcil liy i iili
llie eolllitrv for
liruiini: is llir mn-l inipoitmil rnil-j Tuesdiiy ut I'npitol lliiuui ihere wits
wn.v ilinrlion in New Mexieu mill, it nl lelulmiee nf fr rs, whu
In ina lorulrd nidy fni'ly niilrs I rum tin u.ii only interested, hut nre fiirni
llie interiiulioiml lioitmhiry, the eity j U-a mul -liulyinu llir hrs lurui uirlh-lin-
ii sti-iiimir loeutioit for the mo-1 on., Ii is ipijii rtaiti ihul severnl
liilinliou of Irnops, Anny ol'tirers . . ,1,,- will he enltsl rileled ill this see
ri eoiumeiiiliii'.' Hi'liiim.' lis the pniul I'l.u this sensnn.
I rmn wliii'h to in mli' Mrviro in rn-..
of intei'M'tition. The he-l wuv litis
i-.lll he linillu'lit lo the ullriilioii of llir
Uiliei'iil pulilir is lor lli nilli'j o l"l u
I li-niiii!
I- Voire forrihly mill lliu.-r of iillier
ril ie- throiiuhoiil the i'liiintry in urir
inv eonuress to uilopl u strotiu tinviil
iii.il iiiilil ii r.v polirv for edeiUule de
fi n-e.
Tin- i-hiiiiilier of i-oiiiiiirrir iiruvH
rM'iyone in sniillieru New Mexini In
ttrile In our ronrressioiiul rrpie-ru-tuliis
I., work mid vole fur -in h ii
polirv. Sninloi-s A. H. Knll mid T. M.
(niron
mid eiereseiiliilive II. I'.
I It'riiiiinler. tin nnw in WiisliiiiLrlon.
T, (Mnv,inu :.. lt,n
nilopli'.l hy Ihe rliiiinher nf i-otiiinerre
ulld eopies nre heiuir sent to the dif
ferent eivie orvAiiinlnins over I Iin
miry mul In en;iLrressmen.
CII.VMHKII UK COMMKIICK UK
I iK Ml Nil, NKW MKXlcu.
Wlirii-n, it tins lii-eii I'lem-ly showi.
llml the present nnvy nf Hie 1'uileil
Si. ilr- is iniidriiiille, nml
WlnTiMs, ihe pri's enl -Inndinir
mini of I lie I lill.'d Slnle. is in-ill
liiii-nl tn prnM-rlv L-uitrd Ihe iinlioti,
mul.
Whrrriis, nil llir uiiinit'oii mul Ihe
-tret plniil
i d w;lhii i
h. - nrd "ul
nf i In- euiiulry nte loi nt-
hoft di-luiiee of ihe -en- .
'ou--riueiil tl would he in
iiivr diiirjer of ilr-lriii'tioii in liiim
f nr. lie it llirrefoie.
Kesolveil, tlmt -I i i -hull In
ur.'i'd to mliipl a siroiiu mul sound
militnry mid niiiiil xln-y. hi ivhirh
l In I liilril Si. -llr- mily
miller ti Hi .tn'tt'.-l liened
-hull he -o
llml il will
'(,. us pou erf ill n- I tint
I uni other
mid llml llir slnioliii'x iinuy nf Ihe
l ii lril St. ilr- shnll In- mil Irs- limit
:;ui,iuiii iiii-n ; ..nil llml proisi,,u.
sluill immediiitly he miide In estnhlish
imitiiliiiii ii nd sleel plniils in the Mid-
die We-1 mid West, nwiiy from the
mlnerable reaboard points; and that
22,181 MEMO
SOLD LAST WM
Took Only Half an Hour to Dispose
of Vast Tract at Practically the
Uniform Price of $3 Acre.
MOSTLY ALL GRAZING RANGES
Open Ranges of Luna County Rapid
ly Being Brought Under Control
of Many Individual Owners.
1'iipl. I'liili'i ii k Mui'ller, ii uel ion
eel' fro llir slnle lllllil oflirr, sni 'J'J,
IKI.iiJ iirres of Imiil iii hull mi hour
ill n sjile enlleil nl l o'rlol k Snllir-
ilu.v ill ll iiuntv euiirt house. Only
two pieers of Imiil linniu'lil mole limn
.t'l mi nri'e, nml none for less ihnn
-i mi iieli', I'liirtirnllv nil of tllf
liiinl solil is siiitnlile for uriiinu pur
puses uiily,
KollnH iiif nre tlie inimi's of the
I'lirrhiisri's nml the iininitfi's sei'iirrd
liy eiirli: liiiiiimiiil A I.miil nml Cut-
lir ('n., L'NII lines mill IlL'tl urfes, nt
tII: Mike Hniilrnrl, H04 nrres, H
K. Uni -on, riilo iien-s, nt R. II.
I'll-.', 'J.'I'J lines nl .ft; Allied Lin-
lllllil', . I N I nrres mul .IL'II nrres,
il :); K. Knueinli'if, Kill nrres, tind
l..'l.'i!i uni'-, ut l.eniinoii mid
Ifi'iiiiirv, IKUm ri's, iit:i; K. W. Kree-
iii. ill, :!'JH uei't's, ut .f;i; Krnlik (Ivrr
iiiiiii, Hill urn's, ill ;l; H. V. Thump--on,
Hill lil ies, nl 11; Wuller Fowl-
I . .'t .'ii lin e., nt f.'l: Hull llml hers,
'.i.I.Vi iii-ii-, ut M. I'liflwiioil, HO
nrirs, ut .;i: ,1. . I ploii, I,1U0
to res, ut h'. W, lli'itsiiii, I tin
iieii's. nlM: I, I', I'l trrsnn, I Jtl iiriis.
nl '!. .1. II. Tilley. 1(1(1 nrres, ut 11;
VI Until, Hill m- ni :i: . p.
U nit ii mill .', ;UII nrres, n if A; . K.
Vtiiior, MJII niles, ill $;); Mat ft ill IIiih-
j kill. IUII iieies, nl .').a"i: lleiiruii K.
li'ooti, Hill in-res. nt ir'.i; Mrs. Willmm
I Lelilef, sr., inn m ri's, nl 'l; Hurry
'l liiimllei', 'Jill lines, ut l, K.
i iiit llorne. Nil in-res, nt litis-i
" "
Ikii iieies, nl T l: A. J. WiiilriiMs,
Iiei es, nl :); ,. .. I 'liiltjek, 1 III) !
l""
I'rniniiieiil visitors til the In ml nnlel
ttrie t hiit.'i'iiilori. r. K. Lcnimon,
I While, .1. (iiveiiwiiuil, .Illltvro 1
IVdi'Ii nml W. ,. Mumly nf t 'nluiiihiiN j
t ml Ii. I'!. Conn of I'i s, Trvn.
Farmers Hear Specialists
. lui'.'r 'jMllii'iiii'.' met the
spenkers .
ui M until- leslei'iliiy, likewise nl
I . 1 1 1 . 1 1 1 1 in the eveliiui;. j
Toiliii twop murmiis n n- heinu run.
ilni'lril nne nt Mid Town mid tin
ol lu r ut llomliile.
II. M. I '.ii i ', A. C. Coolrv, mul H.
S. Trimiliiill nre the vi-ilintr H-iik-j
el s ut 1 1 iinln It-. Mr. Triimhull join-i
en the lerliirel's lulu I 111- week, llr
hi mil liehil'tll I hill..- to tell the
I'miiiers. Note, on his tnlk w
Mie r.
Tl. '.-oiliu tn I Mil Town nre Miss :
(It-nee (h
Im I, I'rnf
hid, Miss Miimmitu (1
It W Iniiii I'rnf W M '
I llisoii, mid I'rnf. (irorve Kulile.
Tomorrniv's piovrmn is the rliinnx
mid nil the sH'iikers will git In Moitu
luiu View for the dny.
West End Club
Mrs. .1. C. Wnl si ui piitertiiiiiPi! I lie
Wr.l Knit Five Hundred Cluli Weil
M -ilny eveuiiiK nl her home mi Iron
uvenue. There were no nue-ts pres
int. The Indies of the Clirislimi elinreh
wil1 uive un enehilmlii supier at tile
eliiirrh ut 7:MH n'elnek Friday eve
ninn, Mnrrh '.'4.
ihe -Iniiilinv urniy Ik' rotirrnt ruled
nt -Ironu' militnry posts loruled at
lo"iriil inlervnls uloiiu the senhoiird
i d lioiiudiirv lines nf llie CuittM
Slules nml its mssessinus; mid he il
further
Idolied, tH'i-mise nf the slrnletir
liieuiioii of DetniiiK, New Mexien,
with its i-mliiitinn of railway lines,
its iiliuudiiuee nf llie purest witter in
Anierirn, its extremelv healthful
I'lilttiile, ils l.'ill.lllHI ni-res of fertile
nml pi'odtii-live land, ami proximity
In the honlrr nf Mexien, one of Ihe
nii:tiirv im.sIs be situnted at or In
th vi.iniiy of this city.
NURSERYMAN PAYS HIGH
TRIBUTE TO THE VALLEY
Tin- Miinhri's Vnlley is pniil n very
hit; It Irilnil,. by I,. C. St ink. viee-
lirisiiliMit of tin. St ink Krothi-rx"
Xiirsi-ry I'n., of liiiisimui, Mo.
"Willi pli'nly nf wiitiT nml with tin
rn.r pure mill i-nri'l'iil -Ii-i-i i.ui nf
vi'rii'lii-K lliiri' is no si'i'tion nf l hi
I'liiintry llml run iroilitrr nirrr ni-il-s
ihnn llir si'i'tion of tlir Mimliri's
Viillrv siirrouuiliu llriiiiiii:," wiik tlir
slronij wiiy in wliii'h lie nil it.
'Ami
iivi'l'lmiki
llieri' js our tliinif tlmt is
il
In ii ei rtniii extent, mid
I hut i. the I'm-r llml you luive mi
empire ri'.'hl o one side of you thnl
will Inkv every upple you euii irrow!
iiinl nl liiiod prirr-. If yon wniild!
enter itluiosl eiitir.lv to the Ti'Mlsj
Irmle you would find ii Irnily imir-i
kel nml In iulit rules would not he
tlx hiull, heemise the html would lie
shod '
We Are Twelve Club
Mi's. J. A. Mn honey wns I lie linsie-s!
roi the We An Twelve Chili Thnr-j
ilny nfteriionii. Tin irursls of the;
..Ink l. 11....,... wi .-.i i..- !
K. I'. York, Miss Siisje sliepiird, mm
Mis Tine-it I'lurk. Mr. Multnliev
served dii'iilv relri'sliineiits fulluuiiiu
the uiue.
J. A. Club
The .1. A. I lull did no mei-l litis
week, its some nf the nieinlieis nn
liltsilv eiiL'tiueil ill rehi'lirsiuti for the
Cnillie opetii In he uiveit for llir hene
f t of the iililii- lihintv.
6REA1 ENTHUSIASM IS SHOWN
AT MEETINGS OF FARM COURSE
Agricultural Specialists of the State,
College and Railroads Hold Meet-jlluy ,, ,,1,,,. , , IPilf' ,,.,., illlf .
ings in Various Coirmunitles Over! Tit.- ronveutioi, this vmr in Aiim.i
the Mlmbres Valley Farm Section. I 'im r-pie promises t.. develop m-vermi
j liielv se-sioiis, A movement wns put;
I in loot hv some nf the nirlt.hrr- nfi
The opriiim: pl'iicrmu of ihe ex-1 ll'i' I'mihiuulle iissneiiiliott to endenv.
trusion sliol I eiPllfsr for l.illui roiiiily
I'll- held Moiuhiy iillernnnll ill If cil
Moiinliiiii. There wns n fine turn
out nf funnel's tlmt were llmroiiuldy
i leresled ill the siihjerls iindrr dis-1
ru-sioii. .Mini roiilrilitileil prutil
i hie experieiii-C' c (iiirri-iiinit their site-
n mid t: il:in-.
A. C Cnnlel, heinl ol llie exleti--ioti
depiirlliielll nt the Slnle Colli-ue.
expliiineil snitie of the purposes of
..'.'tinill ninl exli ii-ion work, mul llie
.In I ion helweeii llir fiiriurr- unit llir
U, -tillllinll he i.pn-selits. The rt'
I'iii I s nre fur the hoinr liuililrr nil In r
Imiil the sHeuhilnrs in In tin hinds,
he siihtnilled. Ile i rutifidrtil thnl
iinv step tlmt is tukrii lor ii-.i-liinrr
ulld siiree.s i tin proplr lu-rr is one
in llie rhthl ilireelioii. Whrii Wr Iniii'.'
Imonle In ili-ril wil 11 tho-e llml nre
here mid I lit-v rrpoii -n s., mul
I -how enilleulmriil, lliey will i nn-iil-i
rl I Iii seelioii ii 'jo. nl mul ih'sjriililf
, uni In live in. There me roiiililiiuis
tn he met here ninl the simner they
jure llir I. jiis so -non we will heiir
less iilmiit tho-e wishiiiK to m-I out.
Il is Ihe duly nf Ihe ellrn-lnll ile-
l"l1,l,,',ll
he. -llid. In hilild. not In
rill hp!1'1"' ,',,'" There niv no hrtlrr np-
.IsMllUltlteil
I'lsrw Iin r llimi here.
ii I'liiisiiliulion with the
' - "mrnu.es
I' - rieiinurm rniii'e limy menu tl sin -
"f I'ffnrl nml umney In llmse un-
in ruiKlllU' new pin.ieris. III-, lll--tiliilioti
has iiihiiv rerul'ds nf site
eessi nd fnilures, mn) ilriuniislrut
iotis wltielt they tire ever lemly lo
in un In hose si'i kinu' inloi iniilion.
It. W. I.llttll lllinle dreidrilly
slronir Hppenl fur the diiiry row, its
will lis- livesloek fniniii).' in ueiterul.
lln nay wi ennnol n fiord to fun..
iiulesK the single rrops nre nitide
it to finished pnultiets. Shippinti mil
iinliire mnl shipping in fund mentis
n mnximimi irnnspoiiiiion eieiisi,
htsiiW sellinu sinule rrops is like
sellinir tin f n rut little hi hi llr. he di
elnred. A f""d win In stnrt, he snis,
is tn git enlves nml mise tlie best
liM' of entile possihle: nml some
puis. The frtrnt should hi full
nt
lin-stiM'k. Of eour-r. we emiiiol luive
a himi-li, he explni I. ninl tie indif
ferent lo the mi-luii of rrops fm.
fieil. This brmi.'hl U the situ siih
jiel. whieh will Im more fully .lis
rn rd Inler. Sanitation mid linus
iiii! should he studied somewhat mure
eitrefiilly ihnn al preseul. Ilena
i-Hr'aHH left oH'ii In wind and Iiinl.
ha eaiisi'd the spivnd nf epideinies
eiiliiiliiiir heavy los.es. A Imir ehol-
era epideniie in northern New Mexieo
Continued on page 8
DEC'G BOOSTERS TO
PAi;iiAr;oiE kg
Special Car Will Carry Big Denting
Delegation to Association Con
vention In the Duke City.
LEAVE HERE MONDAY EVENING
Efforts to Consolidate New Mexico
Association With the Larger Or
ganization Will be Opposed. ,
j ly iilloueil himself nil liour's slerp
Delnimr will lie repri-seiited nt the'"'' ,l"' U"uU' Hi'Kott. The trnil
! I'liiiliiiinllc uiul Sniithwesleiu Ciil-"' ,'"'-'.'1,;vi' ns ili-iovrrril nt the
Ill-men's Assiii iiitiiin enuveiilioii nt
A!huiiif npif nexl week with u liirpe
ileli".'iit'oii. A speeinl i nr hn- Ii i
ehurlereil, whii li will lenve here nt
7: I'i o'ehirk Moiiiltiv niuht
iiltiielie.i:'
in the re-'iilnr Snnlii Fe I mill
rirrullse the llotel Hrrolllllioillltiiill-
ii I Alhiioiienpie will he Inxnl
t th,.
enpurily, the -M'i tnl pulhumi will he
u.eil us the slri'iiiiiL' iiunrtri- of the
Hi mint! deletnitioii dnrinii the three
'Inys of the ponveiitinn, Mureh 7, H,
nml 0.
The New Mexieo Cuttle mid llorst
irovvers' Assneiutinti will estnhlish
Iter di un Iters in nue of the A lli. ikt
ntle hotels, mul tile Helmut; ilelecutinu
is iuviled til ioin with them. Twi-ntv.
n... iv Ii.....:.... .....i .;
I i'i iiilHK III"! " l j
eiliil.V will m. its the Inenl hnn,te ! ;" l,,r""""
deleuulimi. !""' 1,1 ,l"
I 'Millie Will ItlllKe II strnllu llHI Mr
llir 1HI 7 I'litiveuliou. Until A i ii ii i'i 1 1 .,
Ti xiis, nml Kl I'iis.i, Texiis, will ex-.
lend inventions o enterliiin the I'lin-
1. . . II. ; . ? .
' 7 ." , f I
or lo iih.orli llie New Mexirn I 'all lo I
nml o--e llrower' .--oiiniioti.
Sm li ii plmi is -iiii- to luive the I
nrni'st opposition of llemina's dele-!."""
'.'ill inn
mul nil thosi'
I hilt lu-lirve
hi
; II llll lil llsMII'illlinU.
j Tin follow inir nre those tlmt mm
i pr;-e the netnini: di leiiutinn :
Tho-r llml will iiMi inl nre: i. i.u
' Cullirfsoii, .1. '. Niinn, Kil Kilt lllllil.
I.'.n Itiirksilnlr, .1. M. Nitiin. Will )).
Hull. .Iiiinrs .1. Ilynll. John W. Ilvnll.
i .I in I'hillips, Ii. W. Ituthri foril. Kd
Hull. Arthur Itutithrl, Hurry Mm tin.
Ilul Kerr. ( Imrlir I'uiks. K. M. I'ridr.
I lurry bine, W. I.. Kerr. .1. (1.
I - "pi r. mul II. II. Kelly.
Highwayman Is Arrested
Joe Curiisrn wns iirri'sted Inle lust
i ii'iiiuu' ii mile eiis of Aden liy Slu-r-
i!' W. C. Simp. mi mul hroimlit before
-liul'je C. C, Knurrs ul 10 o'rlork
this inorniiiu elmrifi'd hr K. S. Milliiid
ivilh lirinir Ihe hiirliwnymiin thm
ii-. milled mid rnhtied him Wednesdny
iiil'IiI neiir the stork yurds. Cnrnsru
phtideil L'uilly tn thee luirce mul wu
hi Id to the crmiil jury. Ile did not
furnish the Imil of ."0l mid wns
phirrd in tlir eolilily jll'l. lie eliiillli'd
Ihul he hud hern in New Mexien hut
Ihrrr diiys miiis from Ch'htinhtin,
in nny ul Kl I'usn.
Week-End Club
The Week-Knd Club, whieb wns tn
luive met nt the home nf Mrs. M. B.
Anient this nftprnnon, will not hold
ii ini-ct I llir lllllil next week nil aeenttiit
of llie illness nf Mrs. Anient.
St. Luke's Guild
Tlte St. Luke's Guild met Moiulny
nfteriionii nt the home of Mrs. Thotu
iis Miirsluill on Xiekel avenue and
Spruee street. The truild sienl the
iiftrrimnu in the iisiuil pleasiint iniin
uer, Mrs. V. S .llillis' voenl solo and
Miss l.ui'ile Holt's iiislnimentnl solo
tM'intr ureiitly enjnyed by those pres-
lit. Mrs. Mnrslinl served iliunty
refri'shineiils lo the ruild menihers
mnl lo I heir friend.
Miss Fanny I.Htham, sister nd K.
W. I.nl hntii, and Harry Ijithnin of
iivemie, rellirned lo Cutter this week.
Ciller, who have been visit inn Mr.
m il Mr.. K. W. I-iithmn on Niekel
aienne, returned lo Cutler this lleek.
Mrs. Frank liiehnnlsou, who has A Herman fw-a plane has dropped
lni n visit inir her parents, Mr. and -"'n'" " aoutheast eoast of Kiir
Mrs. J. W. Phillips, returned to her I". X" military damaire wa done.
home near Lanark thia week.
Intention Notices and Proof of
Labor Blank at the Graphic. Office,
FIVE I'KNTS THfc COPY
HOW FRANCISCO ACOSTA WAS
CAPTtiRCO BV FELIPE LUCERO
t'lim-i-rii Aeosl.i, one of the lililn!
"I five oiillim. tlmt r.eiiH'il from
:lii' I. linn I'Diiniy j.iil in llrm-iij; Siin
d iM'fore lust Hi..! eticmted in a U
llr with ot'firrr. Inter in the ilny lit
Ifil ii. in whii-h Sheriff l. It. Stephen-
Mils killed, wns eitpliireil llllilllt
m oil the follow in-! SntHriliiy ,y Slter-
iti KeliM' l.nrero ol liiitui Am, tv
nml Adolplui Sirnz. eity mnr-linl ol
I. us Ci-iti es, mid i- now in jtiil ut l.ns
I tilers. Willi the I'll il nil' nf Aeoslil,
there reimiii's only one of the oiitlnws
t lni".'i', W. In-lilr, the foruer.
'I'I uplure nf Aro-lii due to
the tireh'-s mnl vit'iimus work of
Sheriff Keliie l.m-i rn, who tins luird-
! 1 "" 1 r.im-li nurlli 1 l.ns Cruees.
Inlweeti ! iii t i-r nml Kineoti, unit ten
' t'listwiird iierns. the Smi Atnlretis
iin'itiiluiiis into Mrr unity. IiAoiiI
I II llie.v emiie ill mil tin- tuiiilive
' "
' mi llir illll-ll ol
I. II. Hnird, iii I Hern
'iiiil.v, nml llir rupture wns iitmlr.
mmir m ri-sisinnre In tin
! "Hirer-. Ile wns -iillVrniu' from ev
: liniistioii nml huii'jer, mid seetued re
j ii-veil win ii liiken into ettstodr.
All i-ll'orts to lornte llushley liuve
fur fniled in (I :t i, f.-nrrd tlmt he.
'in liiiide it -! ii ii uitnwnv.
r.irry hoy mid airl enn ohtnin n
i ; d-oti r -oiiveiiir. free, hv visiting
Ihe Mnhotu-y .loir Tuesday. Mureh
1 ' '"'l"'
.'I mn! .1 oYlork in the
Wnleli our iidvertise
pnper tor purtieitlnrs.
NEW MEXICO IMPLEMENT CO.
BUYS DEMING MACHINE IRKS
Illness Causes the Retirement of B.
A .Knowles From Business: Pres
ent Equipment of Machine Shop to
be Augmented by New Owners.
Weilnesdiii the llriiiint; Murliilie
Work- on North linld inniiir pu-siu
' wm-r-lnp "t Ihe New .Mex-
ro iiiipiruii'til t oitipuliy. llie tinple.
ninl iiiiiipuiiy look over the ma -
luiir -Imp i in iiiii-i 1 1 liri'iiuse nf th
l.eri -ity for (i eoliipletrlv equipped
hop. llr. nlr. lln- present exeelleill
ripiipmriit, roii-idrinlilr new mm-hill-rry
will he itistiillrd nml the eipiip
un nt now housed in the eompnny's
wi'rehoii.-e iiorih of the rnilmuil
Mill III' lll-llllll'll.
Tlir Nrw Mrviro llliplrlllrllt Com.
pnlil will do ii L'riirrul iiinrhitie shop
liiiinrss in roiinrrlioii with the irri
mitinii work tlmt litis hern il sperinl
l.v up lo Iii- lime.
Cii pi. It. I'. Kiiowlrs.ihe former
owner of llir uiurhiiir shop, bus not
''rn in ' I hrulth for some time
nml it i
beem f litis fnrt tlmt
he
hits
-old III.'
nlwnls
proirriy. The Inisini's-a
hern stireessfiil.
Mrs. irior CiillitTsnn mid her sou
ill pniiril this tiiornins: tor I.os Anno I.
i- for it visit with her sou, Victor
Ciillirr-on, jr., who is nlteiiilinr tho
1 1 nun nl Militnry Srhool. She will
r main in l.ns Aii'.'elrs uhniit two
llli'lltll.. She ttll. Hi'eolliiinniA.l Kt-
m- i ij.....
Ladies' Social Circle
The Lmlirs' Aid Cirele of the Christ
in i- i liiin h n.el with Mrs. Frank
S.iiiiurls yesterdnv iifternnnn nn Iron
uvenue.
Twenty-nine were present.
There wns n rriiulur business session
r.t whieh it wns deeided that the Ves
per division should fi' u pirtnre
slinw on Mnrrh ll!. Following the
hiisiness the iiii'IiiIm Is enjoyed a sne
i.d hour. Uniiily n frrslinients were
-lived.
The nexl meet'tif! of the Indies'
Aid Sorinl Ciri-le of the Christian
Inirili will he held al the home of
Mrs. C. II. Suiuliptist. Thursday
Mureh 23.
W. II. Mixer, yiee-president of the
Syrneu.e Smelt im: Works of Xew
Vtrk City, was in the eity today.
It. Howard was with him. They ar
nil in the interest of the Phelp-
it-doe i-orporntinn.
Mux Frank of Toledo, Ohio, U in
Hit eity today.
Constable T. A. ITulsey and Jack
B reams of Columbus are in the eitv;
today.
