State Historical Society
THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on thc Flathead Indian iReservation
Entred as second-class matter May 12, 1?16. at the post
fifice at Ronan. Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1870.
VOL. VI. NO. 45. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, MARCH 3, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
FRENCH CHECK
CERMAN DRIVE
Paris, Feb. 29.-Attacks by the Ger
Tnans to the north of Verdun, where
the battle for the fortress is still rag.
ing fiercely, were driven back by the
Fiench fire and counter attacks, ac
cording to the official communication
issued by the war office.
Hand to hand encounters occurred
to the west of Fort Douaumont and the
Germans were driven from a small
redoubt which they had taken.
German attacks on Fresnes, in the
Woevre, the communication adds, com
pletely failed. The text reads:
"In the Argonne our heavy batteries
and field guns shelled the roads of
acc ess of the enemy, particularly in
the region of the Cheppy wood. At
1-111 283 we exploded a mine, the cra
ter of which we occupied.
"In the region to the north of Ver
d(cn artillery activity on both sides is
still very spirited, except in the sec
tor to the west of the Meuse, where
an abatement of the enemy bombard
ment is reported.
"The Germans attempted several
partial attacks, which were driven
back by our fire and counter attacks.
Tco the west of Fort Douaumont par
ticularly our troops have engaged in
hand to hand encounters with the ad
versary, who was ejected from a small
redoubt, where he had succeeded in
installing himself.
"In the Woevre two attacks against
Fresnes completely failed.
"In Lorraine our artillery has dis
played marked activity in the sectors
of Reillon, Domevre and Badonviller."
FROM LONG, SOUND SLEEP,
RIP VAN WINKLE AWAKES
While possibly not all of the people
of Missoula have awakened from a Rip
Van Winkle slumber, evidence is here
-with presented that goes to show that
at least some of them have. For some
time a progressive few living on the
retervation have been endeavoring to
arouse interest in a proposed electric
railway from Missoula to the foot of
Flathead lake, the line to take in all the
rich farming and timber country along
the route. Their labors have been hard
and at times discouraging, but they
went in to win and are confident that
success will eventually be the reward.
Little if any outside assistance has been
received, even from Missoula, which
would in the end be benefitted equally
with the reservation country. Some
satisfaction was felt, therefor, when
Wednesday's Missoulian came out with
a two-column editorial calling the at
tention of Missoula people to and en
dorsing the project. The article calls
attention to the efforts being made by
our people, also to the utter indiffer
ence shown by the transcontinental
railways skirting this territory, whose
plain duty it has been to provide trans
portation facilities for the 5,000 people
who have come here during the past
six years and reduced the land from a
raw barren waste to a state of cultiva
tion, built homes, established schools,
constructed roads and, last year raised
more than one million and a half bush
els of surplus wheat, in addition to
thousands of dollars worth of other
agricultureal products.
'Instead of being helped in their ef
forts," says the article, "these people
have been penalized to theextent of one
third of their energy by the total lack
of transportation, without which no
cormmunity can prosper." Attention
is also called to the fact that the bulk
of this immense crop had to be hauled
in wagons on an average of 15 miles,
anl much of it 25 miles, in order to find
a market, and that the directors of the
Northern Pacific railway have failed in
their duty when they allowed these
people to suffer from their neglect in
the expenditure of the amount of mon
ey necessary to build a 35 mile line
across a level prairie from the main line
to the foot of Flathead lake.
Of the proposed line, on which our
people are now bestowing every effort,
it says:
"Seventy miles of easy grade and a
supply of 60 pound rails will connect
PoIson, Ronan, St. Ignatius and the
fertile valleys that surround each of
these towns with an outside connection
at Missoula with two transcontinental
lines of railroad.
-The right of way for the line can
had for a nominal Tuh, The coun
lv"; CO~tfiss51foier of Xli. Du ~la.' &rrl Fla
~':ICountie-s viil o1 'C'.'ý,'¾'' t- '
ii'. ilege of 1 ii', a l 0n o
lie i'oad as Lo t Jlo i4
cost to the people along the proposed
line.
"If it seems too costly to install
electrical equipment at this time, even
with the half developed power at Po]
son ready for use at a nominal price,
on application to the secretary of the
interior, a few gasoline driven motor
cars will furnish cheap transportation
on the proposed line.
"Somewhere in the east there are
men, with plenty of money, who will
gladly undertake the work of construc
ting the proposed road, if the matter
can be presented to them in an intelli
gent manner. With the terminal at
Missoula, where reciprocal arrange
ments can be made with two competing
lines, there would be no danger of one
through line absorbing the entire
revenues of the shorter line.
"The future construction of proposed
steam road from Dixon to Poison,
which has been surveyed for more than
two years and then held in abeyance,
awaiting the pleasure of the financial
magnates in New York City, need not
veto the proposed electric line from
Poison, via Ronan, St. Ignatius, to
Missoula.
"The latter line will cut.through the
very center of the richest portion of the
valley, lying along the foothills of the
Mission range, tapping the great tim
ber belt that stretches from Poison to
St. Mary's lake, as well as the virgin
forests along the upper Jocko. The
proposed steam road can never take
this traffic from the proposed electric
line.
"The building of the road, now pro
posed by the people of the reservation
country will treble the value of every
dollar of real estate in the reservation
towns, will double the value of every
acre of farm lands tributary to the line
and will, the day it is finished, add
more to the value of Missoula property
than twice the cost of its construction
and equipmint.
"Lets stop discussing politics and
spring robins and take up in dead earn
est with our neighbors in the Flathead
country the question of, building the
electric line from Missoula to Poison.
It can be done."
DESCRIBE VERDUN BATTLE
German Prisoners Say French Fire
Was Murderous.
Paris, Feb. 29.-"A frightful mas
sacre" Is how the German soldiers
taken prisoners in the battle of Ver
dun describe the effect of the French
artillery, machine gun and rifle fire.
But the impetus of the assaulting
forces was not diminished thereby
during the first four days, because
fresh troops were thrown into the bat
tle unceasingly.
"Advance, no matter what the losses
may be," was the order given to the
German troops before the attack. This
is verified by documents found on one
of the captured officers.
SCOUTS MAKE DARING RAID
Petrograd Also Reports Lively Can
non and Rifle Firing.
Petrograd, Feb. 29.-The official
statement from general headquarters
follows:
"A lively artillery and rifle duel oc
curred in the Riga region. The ac
tivity of our artillery is reported to
have been successful.
"Our scouts carried out a daring
raid near Zade, southeast of Friel
richstadt. Without firing a shot they
attacked some German posts and bay
onetted numerous Germans."
SHARP NOTE TO PORTUGAL
Berlin Vigorously Protests Against
Seizude of Vessels.
Berlin, Feb. 29.-Germany has ad
dressed a sharp note to Portugal in
protest against seizure of German
merchant vessels by tht Portuguese
authorities. This measure is charac
terized as a violation of Germany's
treaty rights and the hope is express
ed that Portugal will rescind its ac
tion.
Duma Approves War Loan.
London, Feb. 29.-The finance com
inittee of the Russian duma, presided
over by Premier Sturmer, has apji ov
ed the new war loan for 2,000,000,000
rubles, says Reuter's Petrograd cor
respondent. The interest will be Gz
per cent. The loan will run for ten
years with privileges similar to thosu
of previous issues.
British Force Defeats Turks.
London, Feb. 29.-A Turkish col
umn was attacked and routed liv 'utl
African troops Saturday at Agaria,
Egypt, according to a British official
statement issued, which adds that the i
feeing Turks are being pursued.
German Commander Ends Life.
tnnon. Fnn . 29.-A Petrograd dis
lttch to to Icras says Count Kaniti,
tin- Gerlian conmmarnder. at Kerumau
*hah, coammitted 'suicide when the
Russians entered the Persian city.
HANDICAPPED.
-Fitzgerald in St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
BRIGHT FUTURE
FOR CATTLE MEN
What does the cattle promise during
the last"six months of 1916 and the
years 1917 and 1918? The question is
answered by a member of the live stock
commission firm of Rappal Bros. & Co.
of Chicago in a recent circular as fol
ows:
Increased production of the beef breed
of cattle in the United States which was
induced by the alarming shortage which
culminated in 1912, was checked since a
year ago last November by the out break
of hoof and mouth disease which restrict
ed the movement of breeding cattle as
well as feeding cattle. The partial failure
of the corn crop, or a billion bushels of
corn too soft to have even a fair feeding
value, caused liquidation of cattle from
the corn belt to an extent which offset
all the gains in productions which had
been made since 1912. The back set to
cattle production will cause a continu
ance of the high average of beef cattle
prices for the next five years or more.
This is in line with our advise of the past
five or six years and especially since
1912 when we foresaw the big advances
in values of stock cattle as well as beef
cattle.
Every indication points to a $10.00 top
on the Chicago fat cattle market in July
and August, and this will sta.rt the range
cattle market next fall on a very high
level of prices, so if you are offered any
stock cattle of any age, buy them if
they can be had onthe basis of an aver
age of stock cattle values on the range
during the past two years. The con
sumptive demand for meats due to the
splendid industrial conditions in the
east will last even beyond the end of the
European war, as our domestic needs
for manufactured goods are being dis
regarded by the great factories of the
east which are nearly all working 24
hours per day filling war contracts, and
when these war contracts are filled it
will take nearly another year to fill do
mestic orders which have accumulated.
Theerfore, we again urge you to stock up
with all the cattle you can possibly
handle-the profits of the coming range
cattlle season are more certain than any
year we have yet seen judging from
present indications.
The Chicago market is now free to
deal once more in stockers and feeders.
This will be a great help to market val
ues.
Round Butte Items
The Ladies' Aid will meet with Mrs.
J. J. Smith March 7th. All are wel
come.
On Friday evening March 10tn, the
Ladies' Aid will serve a chicken pie !
supper at the Mud creek school house.
Supper from 6 to 9 o'clock, A musical
program will also be given. Price
WRlut shall he done whir thL cet.
dr'.s- wort:. play spell, wnge or other
incevment this year?
SETTLERS PROTEST
ACTION BY LANE
Sixty-four entrymen who have each
filed upon land near the towns of Dixon
and Perma, have protested to congress
and the secretary of the interior against
the proposal of the interior department
to withold from homestead entry and
reserve for power site purposes a tract
of arid land 14 miles long and 7 miles
wide, extending along the Flathead
river between that stream and the lands
held by the entrymen.
The petitioners assert that they are
fearful that the government will throw
open the land for power sites, and offer
the sites for sale to the highest bidder.
They contend that such action on the
part of the government would mean
that control of 14 miles of the north
side of the Flathead river from Dixon to
Perma would fall into the hands of some
rich, powerful, and far-reaching cattle
king or sheep baron, and that the home
steaders' little herds of cattle would be
excluded from watering along the river
during the dry seasons.
They ask that the fovernment should
take no action whereby the cont.iol of
the north side of the river from Dixon
to Perma can or ever will fall into the
hands of some rich and powerful stock
interests. Should action be taken, they
assert, it would ruin their present and
future prospects, would mean the loss
of all the labor and pioneer hardships
they have endured, the loss of all the
money thus far expended on their home
steads, and the abandonment of their
present homes; and it would mean the
creation of a substantial monopoly of a
tract of land 14 miles long and seven
miles wide.
The signers of the petiiton are all res
idents of the country adjacent to Dixon
and Perma.
FEDERAL GRAND JURY
INDICTS CATTLE MAN
At the recent session of the federal
grand jury in Great Falls an indictment
was returned against John D. Larson, a
prominent cattle man of this valley, on
a charge of misbranding a calf. He is
accused of putting his own brand on a
calf belonging to an Indian who lives in
the Arlee country, the alleged act hav
ing been done some time last summer.
Armed with a warrant, Deputy U. S.
Marshal Andrew G. Sathre came over
from Helena last Friday to take Mr.
Larson in custody. Hle was not at his
home in Ronan and word was sent to
him on Post creek, where he is feeding
his cattle, that he was, auti. .ul an
sinring the ,urn i noe <(
',as iznmedIi:.t iv r.,; I. it i:,
stood his case will be heard in the fed
eral court in Missoula in May.
The simple fact that a grand jury
found an indictment against Mr. Larson
does not necessarily mean that he is
guilty for grand juries hearing only the
evidence on one side of the case, have
been known to find bill against persons
entirley innocent of the charge. Mr.
Larson is confident that he will have no
trouble in establishing his innocence of
any intentional wrong.
WARN SWEDES OFF
ARMED MERCHANTMEN
The Swedish government is taking
no chances on the possible outcome of
the controversy over the question of
warning Americans to keep off armed
merchantmen after the last day of this
month.
Sweden believes that such a warning
is the proper thing, for John Dahlgren,
local Swedish vice consul, received in
structions from the general consulate
as follows:
"Notify all Swedish snjbects who in
tend to travel on the Atlantic or Medit
terranean after February 29, not to
embark on armed merchant ships of
belligerents. owing to the declared in
tention of Germany and Austria-Hun
gary to torpedo such ships without
warning after that date.
Postoffice Moved
Patrons of the Ronan postoffice got
their mail at the new location for the
first time Wednesday, March 1st. The
fixtures and mail were moved Tuesday
night, Mr. Sterling turning the office
over to his successor at midnight. Mr.
Lemire is taking his first lessons and
promises to be an apt scholar. He has
retained Mrs. Smith as deputy and was
also assisted on Wednesday by Mr.
Sterling, the retiring officer. For a time
patrons of the office will start in the
wrong direction, but this , will soon
wear off and that a change has ever
occured will soon be forgotten. Mr.
Sterling retires after years of service
with the respect of all and with a good
record and it is confidently believed
that the new postmaster will fit in well
and finish his term, whatever that may
be, with the same good record.
JURY FINDS REISER GUILTY
St. Paul Man, Who Killed Companion
In Montana, Convicted.
"guilty of murder in the second de
gree," was the verdict returned by a
jury at Bozeman in the case against
Joe Reiser, charged with having
killed Joe Fink, his companion, Dec.
23, in a cabin near Saleeville.
"We leave his punishment to be
fixed by the court and recommend his
sentence to be as lenient as possible,"
continued the verdict.
The finding of Fink's body, the trac
ing of Relser, his arrest in Dickinson,
N. D., and his story of the light with
axe and shotgun as weapons has kept
interest at high pitch.
Reiser pleaded self defense.
RECORD PRICE FOR WOOL
Boston Buyers Take Quarter Million
Pounds in Montana.
A quarter of a million pounds of
wool have been contracted for at Dil
lon by Boston buyers at 30 cents or
better.
Thirty cents is the highest price
ever paid for wool In Fleaverhead
county, the biggest wool growing re
pion of the state.
Mantle May Seek Senatorship.
Former Senator Lee Mantle will be
a candidate for the United States sent
atorship at the coming primaries on
the Republican ticket, providing an ab
solute veto is not put on his present
plans by his physician. All of the
plans to launch his boom have been
made by his admirers and in answer
to their requests for him to enter the
race lie has told them that he will en
ter the lists unless the condition of
his health prevents.
TO GET DYES FOR STAMPS
Shipments From Germany Have Been
t aeged Through Embassy.
licrhn - l'eb. 27.--Through the com
bined eforts of the American embas
sy and consulate shipments of aniline
dyes tor tle use of the United States
government in the production of post
age stamps and greenbacks has been
arranuged.
One santall ship cmuti already hart
gine inld idecrs will follow shortl-.
Curncit ;' ,i ill 10Le Ihi, to !t d itI ,
tyred .UiIero wou:tl I::: ' . iitc'.l
of shedding teatrs 44 'i 1t i :e
atub.
CENTRAL POWERS
GIVE ASSURANCE
Washington, Feb. 29.-German sub.
marine commanders have been In
structed not to sink without warning
any enemy merchant vessels unless
the presence of armament on board
such vessels "is proved."
Such information, it was authorita
tively stated, was laid before Secre
tary of State Lansing by Count von
Bernstorff, the German ambassador. in
response to inquiries of the American
government concerning the new sub
marine campaign of the central pow.
ers.
Austria is prepared to stand by the
same assurance, Secretary Lansing
was informed by Baron Zwiedinek, the
Austrian charge d'affaires, who called
following the visit of Count von Bern.
etorff, to bring the response of his
government to the American inquiries.
According to authoritative sources.
Count von Ilernstorff was directed, in
lart, to say:
"No enemy merchantman is to be
torpedoed without warning, unless the
presence of armament on board such
vessel is proved."
How the proof is to be furnished in
individual cases is not made altogeth
er clear in the written memorandum.
It Is understood from reliable quar
ters, however, that the German am
bassador expressed the personal opin
ion that the submarine commanders
have been instructed to look for such
proof in the actual use of the arma
ament.
The memorandum, on the other
hend, is said merely to add in this con
nection that the German government
is convinced from examination of the
alleged "secret orders" of the British
admiralty that all British ships that
are armed are under specific directions
to attack hostile submarines on sight.
Secretary Lansing refused absolute
ly to make any comment as to the im
pression made on him by the memo
.randum.
Before announcing the attitude of
the United States the secretary will
confer with the president.
DYNAMITE EXPLODES
IN ST. LOUIS SUBURB
St. Louis, Feb. 29.-Two persons are
known to have been killed and 100 in
jured, twenty of them seriously, when
five cases of dynamite stored at Maple
wood, a suburb, for sewer construc
tion work, exploded.
Approximately thirty houses, most
of them frame, were demolished by
the explosion and many other houses
were damaged. Windows were broken
for fifteen blocks.
The explosion was caused by a fire
of undetermined origin. A workman
saw the blaze and shouted to his com
panions, but it was too late to com
bat the flames.
The damage is estimated at $200,
000.
....+. .++++ ++...+
+ +
+ CHARLIE CHAPLIN TO GET +
+ $670,000 A YEAR. +
+ -- +
*+ Yew York, Feb. 29.-For hit- +
+I" ting people on the head with +
+ sugar bowls and pointing his +
+I" toes east and west Charlie +
+ Chaplin will receive $670,000 +
+ real money in the coming year, +
+I according to his press agent. +
*I-+++++~+++l++-.+++ +++
ORPET WAIVES EXAMINATION
Lake Forest, Ill., Feb. 29.-Before
the calling of the preliminary hearing
for William II. Orpet, charged with
the murder of Marian Lambert, a Lake
Forest high school student, before
Justice of the Peace Henry Vicker
man, Attorney James H. Wilkerson,
representing the defendant, announc
ed that his client would waive ex
amination.
The case will be considered by the
March grand jury.
HOBSON SEEKING OFFICE
Tuscaloosa, Ala., Feb. 29.-Former
Representative Richmond P. Hobson
will be a candidate for congress from
the new Tenth district. He will op.
pose W. B. Bankhead, son of United
States Senator Bankhead. Mr. Hob.
eon was defeated for the senate in
1913 by Oscar W. Underwood.
Hill Not to Aid Belgians.
.i. Feb.:.. - The Belgian govern
' hleti aly denied the story in
printed here in the Eng
la -7nag, that Janies J. 11111 is to
- I lhe Belgian railroads.
