I
YOlLME LIU, NLUBUK iX. , JiEWBERRY, S. C? FRIDAY. MARCH 3. 1916. . TWICE A WEEK, $U0 A YEAS.
* A
Representative Wo
Probably Ri
At the Request of The Hero
11 Questions as to the Work of
of Leadership, Tax Qu
The Herald and News lias requested
the three representatives in the legislature
from Newberry if they would not
]>e willing to tell the people of Newberry
something of the work of the recent
^ legislature and the results of that work
and what thev thought about the vai
r:ous questions that were considered.
P Representative Mower said he never
submitted to newspaper interviews and
had nothing to say. Representative
Chapman has promised his ^icws for
The Herald and News and we hope to
(have them for the next issue. Representative
Workman in an interview
here printed talks very interestingly on |
; *hat his impressions are of the work
, proposed and the results accomplished.
The Herald and News has written the
senator a request for a similar interview 1
and will he* pleased to publish it if he
will answer our questions. The Herald
and News feels that the people who
read it as the constituents of these representatives
have a right to hear from
them and that they have a right to be
heard and for that reason this oppor*
tunitv is sriven them. If they do not
avail themselves of it we have done the
best we can for them.
iWHAiT MR. WORKMAN SAYS. 1
Mr. {Workman was asked to state
whether or not any of the issues discussed
by bim in the last campaign
were before the general assembly at
' either this or the last session arid made
the following response: i
"Yes. There were bills and resolutions
on the calendars embodying every
' i-J L-- ?
principle aavocaiea uy me m mc id&i.
campaign. The chief of these were tax
reform, rural credits and registration
of land titles."
^ "Did you regard the legislature as
constructive." Mr. Workman was asked.
"Yes and no." was bis reply. "In some
respects it was constructive, in others
it was quite the reverse. It might be
L said that in ideas it was constructive,
in acts destructive. JMost of these ideas.
f while intrinsically good, were ot a
i vague, hazy, ill-defined nature. The
trouble was not a lack of ideas, but of
constructive leadership to crystalize
t these ideas into constructive laws. I
<Jo not mean that there was a lack of
^ nirn who know how to do this, but
^^^rather a lack of experience and influHuence
on the part of those who did know.
There was a very perceptible lack of
ft ability and knowledge on the part of
Isevral who tried to assume the role of
leadership. Had the session lasted a
"while longer those self-important, self- 1
chosen leaders would have been thrust
linto the back ground and new leaders
[brought forward. iAs a result of this
[haphazard non-constructive leadership:
j^ittle of real good was accomplished, i
>To illustrate this botching business, take
the question of tax reform a subject by
the way in which I am very much interested.
That we need real tax reform ^
in this 'State at this time I take it that j
no one intelligently familiar with the j
subject will for a moent controvert. I (
gidvocated it in the iast campaign and j
Linn Q-ftpr r.npnmcr nt cpccmn in I
Hr;i5 I introduced a resolution to so
Mmend the constitution that the general
BBssemblv could classify property for .
^^oses of taxation. This resolution;
Wf^ referred to1 the ways and means J
rkmart Will
in for State Senate
dd and News He Answers
the Last Legislature, Lack
est ion, Liquor Matter
committee where it stayed for a considerable
length i>t time and at last was
unfavorably reported. In the meantime
this same committee introduced its
bill to create tile 'tax commission.' This
bill was promptly passed and heralded
abroad as 'tax reform.' T<> call this act
tax reform is a frank admission and
bold assertion of profound ignorance of
the subject of taxation.. This act only
made some changes in the machinery
designed to administer our tax system'
1
?it had absolutely nothing to do with
the system itself. It was a change in
the 'system' that was desired, and there ,
can be ns? real tax reform until this
change is made. And t<> make that
change the constitutional amendment I
tiered will have to be adopted. The ,
'tax commission' was appointed and set
to work. What happened? After a i
year's work they tiled their report in .
which they urge'' the general assembly ,
to adopt by constitutional amendment .
T1 is commission thoroughly appreciates .
the fact that their hands are tied?that
there can be no tax reform until this .
c institutional restriction is removed.
'he chairman of this commissiin in a
(
conversation with me about this matter .
] 't t tllp ni -
\ 1 \ sn<ll l?v v..^ v...
favorable report my resolution received."
: .
"What about the liquor question." Mr.
Workman was then asked. ; j
"Oh. it played a very prominent,
though I think a rather unfortunate, ;
part in the legislate e program at the t
last session. Certainly there was no dis- :
play of statesmanship in the acts on
this subject at this session. At the last i
session the 'gallon a month' act was
nassed. also the so-called 'prohibition' (
act submitting to the people* the ques- t
tion as to whether the manufacture and j
-ale of alcoholic liquors and beverages ]
^ball be prohibited or continued in this ,
State as now provided by law.' I think
this legislation should have sufficed for ]
the present. Liquor is not a question to ,
be solved according to philosophical
principles, but rather one to settle on .
practical grounds. Expediency, not (
logic, must determine the kind of, and
necessity, not fanaticism, should determine
the time for, legislation on this
suhieet. The leerislator, however,. much *
he might indulge a hope for the early
arrival of the day when the liquor traffic
shall find no protection beneath the '
folds of the national uag. or however '
much he may desire to free his people
from the baneful effects of its hurtful (
reign, should bear in mind that the '
liquor evil, like every other evil that in- 1
heres in the social organism, must be removed.
if at all. by the process of evo- 1
lution. The liquor laws must not go <"
*' ><* Viohifc ami cnnrtinn of the
'/V. J UI1VI HIV HCU'UvJ
majority, if they arc to be effectual. i 1
"Perhaps you may be in doubt as to
which class I belong?the prohibitionists
or ai orohibitionists. If so I shall
try to dispel that doubt by assuring you
that I belong to both classes. Theoretically
and abstractly I am an anti-prohibitionist,
for the reason that I very
strongly believe in the Democratic principle
that the State should make as few
inroads as possible upon the individual
rights of the citizens. Pratcically and
concretely I am a prohibitionist, for the
reason that I very strongly believe in
the paternalistic principle that the
State should do for the citizens that
which he can not do for himself. While
I thus belong to both classes, I presume
that my practical prohibition inclinations
out-weigh my philosophical anti-prohibition
predilections."
''Do you wish to make any statement
concerning the financial condition of ;
Newberry county?" i
!
"I will only say that the finances of j
this county are in a deplorable condi- j
tion. For years those in authority
have tried to make a levy of 3 1-2 mills
meet all the ordinary expenses. Almost
every year there was a deficit. To pay
oft all this back indebtedness a few
1
years ago the county was bonded for a |
considerable amount. The levy was not
increased. The annual appropriations including
that for roads and bridges have
for sevral years been around $54,000
(Continued on page four), J
THE NEW# OF PO MARIA
TOLD IN PARAGRAPHS
graded school t ogive
NEGRO MINSTREL FRIDAY
NIGHT FREE OF COST
Poinaria March 2.?The latter part of
? + lif.'f t\Mff r\ + tliic AtlP
IM V\ CVI\ #11111 LIU. |'(U l v_?i imo www
{. minded us of the fact that winter had
i<u yet disappeared. The snow and
-leet fell rapidly here for a short while
\tonday aiur;n :i w;... followed with
rain.
A great deal of early gardening has
!>een done around here. The fanners in
general took advantage of the sunshine
::nd did a good deal of farm work. T! \
,'erlilizer sale is slow in and around
I'omaria tliis spring.
A great deal of grain has been planted
n the community, all of which is looking
fine.
The Pomaria school will give a negro
minstrel at the school house Friday
light. March 3. to which the public is
In".- mv.ted A:i interesting provi
11 be rendered free of charge.
The teachers, patrons and pupils have
mdergone a great task since this school
/;i- e-eavl. g.vir.j, ni:.ny interesting
>lays from time to time. The people
;i\\ay> heart:':y < ooi.'-rat:.* with them and
liey have large crowds at their enterainments
each time. 'A large sum has
dways been realized and a large an
nonce wen pleased, aow to snow now
nuoii they appreciate your help they in.
ite you to be. prcstit ?.vl3. at 8
'clock. Leave your m< ney at home
:nd enjoy an u]> to civile minstrel.
r'.'ivf i f Polite '! i* Richardson and;
,vife of Prosperity, spent Sunday with!
Mr. Wilbur .1. Ringer.
Prof. G. H. Ligon. of Asheville. spent
he week end iti town.
Mrs. .i. i\V. Wessinger of Ballentin'e.
md Mrs. Jacob Shealy of Little Moun;ain
visited their brother. Mr. John 13.
Shealy. Monday of this week.
Mr. Geo. Amick of Columbia was in
/mimi \Tnn J'M*
*\ it +yi.\ ?11 \ i ci y .
Mr. Richard Ligon. who has been wiili
:oa>t artillery of Handcock. X. J., for
he Oil^t four y?.ars s?. cnt a few days)
:he present week with his mother, Mrs. i
R. C. Ligon. leaving for Iva where lie '
kvill visit other relative?.
i.. r. Hugh Epting of Newberry college.
spent the week end with his pa- j
-ents, Mr. and Mrs. T. A. Epting.
Mrs. W. T. Livingston and daughter,
Miss Beatrice, and Miss Bertha Crooks
>f Newberry, spent a few clays with j
Mrs. John F. Lyles.
Miss Edna Koon has gone to Prosperity
where she will visit relatives in
:he Zion section.
i
Rev. S. C. Ballentine will preach next
Sunday as follows: n a. m. iSt. Mat!;ews.
3:3o p. m. St. Paul, 8 p. m. Pomaria.
Mr. Ballentine is an able preach
;r and a tine singer and any one atending
these services may expect some:hing
intersting.
Mr. W. B. Counts, to the delight of
his many friends, is improving and is 1
ible to be on the street.
I have been requested to state that 1
the box party that was advertised for
Hunter-DeWalt for Friday night of this
week lias been postponed to a later day. j
\"otice of the time will be given in The ,
Herald ;fnd News.
l\lr. Wilbur J. Ringer, the newly ap- j
pointed carrier on Route i. is espe- j
cially impressed with the nice treat-,
ment accorded by his patrons, and
wishes to thank them for the many nice j
lunches he finds in the mail box marked j
for the-mail carrier. Though it seems ^
that Mr. Ringer doesn't understand just j
why they are so much interested in
giving him these good things to eat,
whether it is the good service rendered
or whether they want a larger mail carrier
as they have l>een used to. and
hope in this way to increase his size, is
quite a puzzle to him. Any way he says '
the warm lunches on a cold day go
mighty fine, and he will eat them for j
tuner purpose.
In the spring of last year some of the
people in Pomaria and on roads leading
(lit from Pomaria became very much
interested in the good roads movement.
In many places new road beds were given
by some of our big hearted citizens.
The road leading from her to Little
Mountain and the one leading to Newberry
via Jolly Street have been greatly
improved in this way. Though I believe
I am mistaken about saying in
the spring of last year for it was during
the close of Mr. J. H. Chappcll's
term of office, that these places that I
have in mind were greatly imoroved. Let
/
It he when it may we started out to
ixil that a i;rcat many of them did a
great deal of good work on the roads
>y filling up holes and dragging with- '
?ut pay. I decided to get the names of
all these citizens who did so much tor
.he roads without pay and place then,
on the honor roll and confer up??n them >
the degree of I'. S. C. This 1 did and j
the roll grew to be a Merge one. Of ,
late we have observed some work done
by some citizens who well deserve the j
degree of F. S. C conferred upon then1
for the work done on the road from
here to J. D. Shealy's and the work so
badly needed between Mr. Geo. B. Anil's
and Dr. :T. H. Wedaman's. Here are
some of the names: R. H. Hipp. A. H.
?healy. Robert Shcaly. W. L. Bedent.n?rli
IJ> A.,11 n?..
Uk ' 1*. -.Villi. ULW. IV 1 ^ I ICll VlO'-HIj
Dr. T. H. Wedaman.
i
The farmers in and around Pomaria
have taken advantage of the past few
weeks of sunshine and a great deal of
farm work has been done. The farmers
do not seem to lie very-much interested
in fertilizers this year much interlook
now is that a great deal less will
be used this year from this place than
was used last year, and not more than
one half the amount was used last year
that was used the previous year.
The Pomaria Graded school will give
'i play in the school auditorium Friday
;i'ght March 3. beginning at 7:30 o'clock.
The teachers, pupils and patrons most
earnestly request that, you come out
Friday night and enjoy an up-to-date
"negro minstrel.'' Xo admission will
he charged.
We are glad the people in and around
Pomaria have taken so great an interest
in the "good roads" movement, giving
new road beds where needed, tilling
mud holes and dragging roads. iThe
Folks hill shows the improvement that
'i little such work makes.
Mr. and*Mrs. M. C. Rivers of Columbia,
spent the week-end with Mrs. Rivers'
parents. IVIr. and Mrs. M. H. Folk.
Harold C. Jones of Ridge 'Spring,
spent the week end at the home of Mr. (
John Harman.
^ W >T 1 T 11 1 r
.Njrs. .vialine L,ance arid ciaugnter. after
spending a few weeks with her
brother. Dr. Z. T Pinner, have re-1
turned to their home in Asheville. I
Miss Edna Koon hr>s gone to Prosperity
to visit friends and relatives.
Misses Beatrice Livingstone and Ber- !
tha Crooks of Newberry are visiting
Mrs. .Tno. T. Lyles.
t
Juite a number went from Potr.aria to '
Columbia to see the "Birth of a Nation."
Everybody was pleased with the
show. J
The hour for preaching at St. Paul's
will be 3:30 o'clock instead of 3 o'clock
as heretofore. Sunday school at 2:30
o'clock. Rev. S. C. Ballentine will con
duct services at the above mentioned
hour every first Sunday,
AWAITING AX ANSWER. j
JThe Daily Mail has heretofore thought
that it was not constitutional for a
member of the legislature to hold the
office of trustee in a State college, but
after a discussion with The Columbia
Record, which paper quotes from the
constitution. The Daily Mail changes its
mind and says:
".'We cheerlully admit tins section 01
the constitution had escaped our attention.
It does appear to be against the
law for a trustee of a State college to
hold any other office." The Daily Mail
quotes this section as cited by The Record
: j
"No person shall hold two offices of
honor or profit at the same time." The
statute further provides:
"It shall be unlawful for any person
to assume the duties of any public office
until he has taken, the oath provided
by the constitution, and been regularly
commissioned by the governor. The
term public officers shall be construed
to mean all officers of the State that
have been heretofore commissioned, the ,
trustees of the various colleges of the (
'State, members of various State boards, J
and other persons whose duties are defined
by law."
We had asked our good brother Wal-1
lace of the Newberry Observer, who is
fond of the constitution to give us his
judgment on this clause of the consti-1
tution. But so far as we have been able
to see, Bro. Wallace has been too busy
to do so. But we are not without hope,
and we shall occasionally remind him of
the request, as we value his judgment
and we Jcnojv -some college trustees wiio
do so also.?A. R. Presbyterian. i
Wilson Will be Sat
Only Clear Exf.
T?#vi* J /%?%rrvi3ccm^n a i
X (llltu WH5ibaouivM
tration Men Among De
Avoic
Washington, March I.?President iWil?011
served notice on congress tonight
that he will consent to nothing less than
a record vote on the anti-a'dministration
resolutions to warn Americans of the
armed ships of European belligerents
before he goes on with the German submarine
negotiations. No compromise
proposition, such as a vote of confidence
in the president's foreign policy, will be
acceptable. Such action, it is held,
might be construed in Berlin as justifying
the opinion that the president
Licks tlie support of o tigress and his
own party in his demands for a full
observance of international law, while
its only purpose would be to afford mem
bers "t congress a way t<> avoid recording
their positions before the country
in tlu- straight out-and-out question.
President Wilson made his position
clear t<? congressional leaders tonight in
unequivocal terms, as the climax to a
day of confusion, uncertainty and political
manoeuvering that marked the
opening of 1 is first real light with congress.
NEW ASSl'RAXCES LIMITED.
'.As it' to emphasize that the president
absolutely refused to continue negotiations
w;th Germany until the attitude of
congress is settled it was made known
that ti e United States does not consider
the latest assurances from Count von
Dernstorff. the German amhassdor. as
broad or as stisfactory as those originally
given. Xo further action will be
taken, however, while the president
waits on congress. Meanwhile the
pending Lusitania agreement will not
he tlnaly accepted.
'P'-" '-. liolf .citnatiun in rr>n<rr(\^s con
fused by the president's call yesterday
for a vote, was thrown into a snarl today
wsJen at an early morning conference
the president outlined his position
to Chairmen Stone and Flood of the
foreign affairs committees. -Senate Leader
Kern. Speaker Clark, House Leader
Kitchin and Acting Chairman Pou of the
house rules committee.
As soon as the delegation returned to
the capitol with news of what the president
had said, it was apparent that
some of the .leaders who had secretly
supported the anti-administration forces
and inHer administration pressure had
poci.ete^ resolutions in committee when
there was danger of their being passed,
leaii/.ed that the president and his
fri'-nds had suddenly gained the whip
hand.
FEAR OF DEFEATS
It was plain that they at once devoted
their efforts to attempts to a defeat at
the hands of the administration forces
by side-tracking the main issue and making
the tight turn to a vote on a resolution
of confidence for the president in
which they could point without comprom
ising their position in support ot warning
Americans to avoid belligerent armed
ships.
Practically in control of the machinr
i 1 ? A 1,^1,1
fry OI tilt UOUSC. tucsc ivmitis iiciu ^ n.
situation in deadlock all day while they
conferred and sought tor some proposal
which would satisfy the president and
still save their positions.
Friends of the president, watching the
manoeuvering closely, saw the object
and tonight from the White House came
word that there should be no compromise.
Congress will meet tomorrow facing
a clear cut issue with the president.
The president's frier'ds openly charge
that resistance to his ; rogram is purely
political. They make li unmistakably
clear that he does not inteuj t let the
? ~ Kir cnnmr/irr tc(> iJflt\
qucauun i/c puaatu u_y a. vuiuj/iu?<^v ? ?
risk being erabarrassed later in his negotiations
with Germany by having the
agitation come up again to weaken his
hand.
A CARD OF THA>*KS.
I wish to thank my many friend? and
neighbors, who were so very kind
to me during my serious illness at
home and at the hospital. And espe
daily thank the ladies of West End
ESaptist church who sent me such nice
cheering cards and letters, and I wish
to be with them in their meetings in the
near future. I remain,
Very sincerely,
Mrs. J. T. WARD.
- - '
tisfied With
nession Main Point
Compromise?Anli-Adminismocrats
Now Anxious to
I Test
| NEWBERRY COLLEGE BASKETBALL
TEAM WINNERS
!
The Xewberry College basketball j
j team closed the most successful season
| it has ever had, last Tuesday night, by
j scoring a second victory over Clinton.
' Out of a schedule consisting of 13
j games. Xewberry won all of them, and
! in addition to this, has not lost a game
' on the home floor for two years and
: "lost hut one game in the State during
! that time. There is every reason for
! the student body, alumnae and-' support|
ers of the college to feel proud of the
tf;im A rnlleo'f tlif ci/f> r>t Wvvhprrv
able to turn out a team that will win
i two consecutive championships, plays
i against every college in the State and
! plays the hardest schedule in the State
I is a college to be proud of. There is
no possible chance for a dispute or for
a rival claim to the honor, as every
team was played and every team was
defeated, most of them twice.
The schedule had to be arranged from
an economical standpoint and was con- v
sequently about as Lard as could be.
On the trip to Charleston three games
were played in two days; on the trip to
Clemson. three srames were olaved in
three clays, all on strange floors with
unfamiliar officiating and a hostile
crowd who were aching for the blood
of the State champions. Another remarkable
feature of the season was that
in six of the seasons 'games, the Newberry
team was behind at the end of
the first half. In some cases the score
was doubled, but the team from the
hill came through with its well known
fighting spirit and won. A team that
never could be defeated and would
never acknowledge defeat is certainly
worthy of support. -V .
At the first of the season, the team
started out with but one finished player
on the st^uad, one other who had two
years' experience behind him and the
rest all green material. In the first
game the team showed but little promise,
but after that the rough spots were
smoothed out and a perfectly working
' machine developed, a machine that came"
through with the "bacon" upon every
occasion. Too much credit cannot be
given the college or the team for their
i wonderful season and for the fight
against odds in numbers and lack of
money to obtain suitable equipment. The
| boys have to furnish their own supplies
j but an effort is to be made among the
supporters of the college, who appreciate
the value of good athletics, to raise
money to supply this need. It should
I be successful for if ever a team or a
I college deserved support these do.
How the championship came to NewI
berry:
' i - . . a i
.\ewoerry ,34; moui?ru c/#
i Xewberry 58; Clemson .30.
| Xewberry 29; Erskine 21.
Xewberry -35; Carolina 25.
Xewberry 27: Charleston College 10.
i Xewberry 33; Citadel 20.
| Xewberry 52: Furman 21.
Xewberry 30; Carolina 13..,
Xewberry 37; Citadel 19. /
I Xewberry 26; P. C. of S. C -20.
Newberry'32; Wofford 20.
Newberry 30; Clemson 24.
Newberry 30: P. C. of S. 0. 28.
KING'S CREEK ROYAL.
A.. R. Presbyterian.
The pastor's family feasts when the
King's Creek people spend the day at
the parsonage. They heralded not their
coming by the blowing of trumphets,
but they came, old and young, and
spent the day together at the Newberry
parsonage on the 12th aay of February
1
Out of their own baskets they set forth
1 bountiful dinner of which all did
heartily partake, and when they had
departed twelve baskets remained of
heavy and fancy groceries with savor
and flavor?just the things that mortal
man needs and buys at a store when
lis credit is good, and they did not so
much as leave a hill.
These and the many oiner expressions
... f . V .V
}f >love and good will are highly appre*
:iated J. W. Carson.
