?rrr
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1916.
NUMBER 9.
x&be
tttellfaettca
YOUNG MAN KILLED j Piano-Forte Recital CITY MARSHAL KINKEAD Death of Mrs. Mary McCormack.j Song Rental
IN MAYVIEW j The second program in the AIDS KANSAS CITY POLICE i Mrs. Mary M. McCormack, wid- The cmdnitintr series nf .
Graduating Series by the Class; low of the late James J. McCor- ;ai recitals bv the senior diss
L. II. S. GIRLS LOSE
INITIAL GAME
urauuaung series uy me wass j uw oi me late james j. Mcuor- a recitals by the senior class,
Taken for Robber, Shot and In-'of 1916, Central College Conser-j Diamonds and Other Jewelry J mack, died Wednesday morning! Central College Conservatory of Made Great Rally in Second
stantly Killed. Jvatory, was given Monday even- Stolen in Kansas City Re- at 7:30 a. m. at the home of herf Music was inaugurated Thurs-: Half and Tied Score Then
Hugo Bruggenionann manager i ing by AHce Black' wh delihted u ceived IIere grandson, Owen Owen, 1813V1 1 day night with a song recital by : Lost 20 to 16
. p , ..... , , , ii aiicLiauYc auuicm-c. aiic cuiuaij m lu liii cc iiicii, iicuj , mam oil etl, ill mi iXIl Illness 01 8 Miss Unrnt h V TTrmntnn A Wo-p t l c n
of the Eagle Mills Elevator at . . , , i d. j r 1 j j1 i TT , , , uoiomy Houston, a laige In the initial game of the sea-
. b , . , . , concert-giver attested the value Peterson and Boone, slugged and ; week. Her death was due to o k i! audience manifested its infect r i v. u t
Mayview was shot and instantly e 1 i i j ,,, , , . ot , , , , ,auuienc.e manuesieu us mieresT . s-on 1-riday night, the Lexington
. of extended studv: and the frui- robbed Sterns, a DawnshoD keen-!aee and c-eneml dphi itv. : i j i i ... . f . .. . . fc. ..
i: , ' ' , . . J Tr r , , V i . A ( in uie ucubiua aim w as au-unu- nigh School girls basketball
- Z V V 'nnn , r "'I A T J ormacK, wnose ma.a- antiy repaid. The program in- team was defeated by Marshall
fest in a choice program artisti-itime ago Boone, one of the rob-
Mayview was shot and instantly
killed Monday morning about one
o'clock when taken for a rob
ber by Murrell Bland.
bers, was taken seriously ill in
born on the old Shewalter farm,
December 25, 1834, and was
t. w. lappmeyer conducts a cay executed
i. : : i i i i i . . i
t,wm m may view, wmta nau The Beethoven Sonata is just-.St. Louis. Thinking he was go-j eighty-one years of age. She is
been robbed so frequently that ly one of the most familiar of the 'ing to die, he confessed and im-; survived by one sister, Mrs.
,,c I,au "ttU ""'sk "H VV1"1 UU1- composer's works: tor t s re-'Piicated Kelly and i'eterson. Marv E. Owen.
glar alarms. Monday morning
about one o'clock the alarms
sunded and Mr. Tappmeyer gath-
cluded selections from the opera, by the close count of 20 to 16.
oratorio, and modern songs;, The locnl Hrls started in cmorl
which were attractively arranged1 form, taking the lead as soon as
ana deiigntluliy contrasted. j the game started, but the visit
Miss Houston's voice is of a'ors soon passed them and at the
quality and timbre that shows J close of the first half, with the
plete with intense feeling and.Last Thursday these two were The funeral services conduc-U i i . i ' m t , i m r. , ,
.... . , , Li-j ; rr at i. tt, i i- r. r. xt a,i to especial advantage in colora- score 12 to 4 and Marshall lead-
i- i i i- v, i . ture work, though the pure sus-' ing, things looked pretty dark
-cave the maiestif. lntrnfluctinn booty, however, was not rceov- held vesterdav nfternnnn nf o.p.ni, ... e .. . . i . 6 ' . . J
ered un snmp -I inrl 5nrrnnnrl u i Li 1 - i i i n. i. tained tones were very well hand-' 1 or Lexington.
treuupsonK. i ana suriound-jin a broad impressive manner, ered. o'clock at the home. T - , , ,, i i i . . ,
ed thp stnrp O i n-p siHp nf thp 1 j n. e n n I ir i, i y i it n lecl- ln tne former style, the i 1 he locals put in some subs at
eumesune. u.i o..e siae oi ine,an(j the following restless move- City Marshal Kinkead had been i ,, , , . f ' , I., , . . -, , ,
storp is an allov nhnnt twlvp i -iu i. i i- i';nfnm,n,i f tt,n . vu i 1 T , , , iwaltz song by Petne showed to the beginning of the second half,
Muie an din j auoui xweive ment with chnrnptpristic firo nnrl iinlormea ot the rohherv nnd rp- V. M f nofpnlnH I .. . . i . '
i . i . . ! Pvcrntinnn nflvnnrniTo tha ( ovi nnrl ntfor Mnrchn I hnfl 1 (; nnmlj
quested to keep a lookout for. The Young Men's Club of the , ;,V t-i it U V 7",""" iU "
tho m, On p10W mfv. 'n,,.;;,. rtwi, ,..-i .iblllty of the volce' whlle theito Lexington's 8, they seemed
i i!v iiivin Wll A - A UUi T 1UL11 11C , Ulill.Uiail VillUlL II III I IIIN I'llV l -n a ... .. 1 . ....
leet wide, leading to a door in energy. The second movement,
the rear of the Tannmever store. ' Q
Coneidorahlp vncket vn hpinty1 j i iu -i r -i , 1 f v. !i - i. w Ll , ! Chanson Trovencale with its to take new life. The L. II. S.
wm. Kiciaoie lachet .as oeing sed into the purity of spiritual1 got vise to two strangers who, lost a hard fought game of bas- V(r u. 1 1 r i n. i iv.
made his door r,l young conceptions, was-rendered with I were stopping in Lexington, and' ketball Tuesday night to the Con- ZZ IT w" 7 vf
Bland v.) was armed started a thoughtful tranouillitv and'soon afterward found that con- cordia Athletic Club at Connor. PrS!"gly w " subesld the .spurt that almost won them the
down t'np iIIpv to im-ootiVato ' i n i j , , , L,mui - I i. l- r,-,. . lntucate coiorature passages, a game, tney tied the visitors and
UOwn me alley lO lnveSllKaie. pnrnpctnoaa thnt -mvAa Via -fl SldprnhlP lPWPlrv wna hmnnr f ha Tho wnm it-no 9fl orr 1 r '
iJ vu.mv.1i,1H,DU U1UV lllflUU LIIC llll" ' ' ' . J l...ie v. l.V..7.UlV.HtI.Tfl(lllI I . P 1 II . . .. ' . ...
He worked his way to some bar-
lowing Rondo a happy contrast.
a
dia. The score was 36 to 27.. ., C a i 4 r i - i,
flL,i , i , , i rni i , . icatuic wuimy vl iiuLtj was meiJu me last nve muiuies oi me
flashed in unexpected quarters.! The game was played in a gar-L ,,, ,vA a uu u j u
rels and crouched down behind! tv, pid " .. - SnnHflv with t),o .i.t.n !,.;v,n ease wun wnicn me singer re- game, wun tne crowd breathless
them waiting a chance to pot binder of a Court ceremonial in C. E. Allen, a Pinkerton detec-1 basketball court. No one though .51 high C. The Aria hey ough desperately to win,
the robber. In the mean time;p0ii.sh national life was given iJtive of Kansas City, he made was hurt. 1T0 dhy Maraha 1 figh lng
four
Bniptro-pnionn had mario Vn'a i.., ..i .. iv, j j iu-.J rp. , ... , ,TT , , cieiea, and with the blumbe:
oo" j wv ...c mo , tt Spienuiu maruai spirit, wmie , tllc iuuuua uiiwveieu mree 1 auc uuys reiurnea Wednesday c :ni i 1 1 1 u e iv. i.- n
downthealWnnHithpiTiWn,-tpV,!i,wr j n...n. .....Lm ,1 1 j Song illustrated some very beau-more points before the whistle
dark nassed Bland unhpWvn1 1 Pnif. rovnw nn, " ,mL,i Am "t tfc ""mfc tiful legato work. blew, making the final count 20
of the noise. The men behind inn Atc fWm
Bland knowi-- that Brueggen-j The lovely Venetian Barca
john had entf.ed the alley, called Jrolle, and Lizt's Spinning Song,
to Bland to stop shooting. The! transcribed from the "FlvW
other men called to Brueggen-1 Dutchman." mndp n mm,inrr Betty Lauck at Nanolenn
T ...v.u v. 1. 1 1 K - X
to him. P.land hpnrintr a nn!oL. Vii-o i,,nn innnfn i ,,.;n k .;n ui.i.. i Ihe program as a whole was i 10 lb
e Kluulj. - --n iji.ii,cu auu vm uc ie- fcauic win yiuuciuiv SUUIl oe play-i i i. . TI i e 11
further on and not knowino- nfi iu ir, ... rovpvpri i0fOr 0ri t v;i t, ,T imost artistic and indicative of lne captain and one of the
- "iic tinea tne vaibe u y , .n-w i- j-ntuj ic- v. i,tAiiiSwii. inc i. ill. .i., , , . . ,, , 'fnm.ni.,1a r.f iu t tt c i
Brueggenjohn's presence fired aSchutt; and as often as it has covered had been sold here for a. lineup was as follows: McCor-1 , ,USUTal Ce?tral College stan" y If wu a u '
couple of shots in the direction been heard, Miss Black gave it'nominal amount. Imack, g.; Ristine, g., c; Gordon, idard- lt read as follows: Elizabeth Ashurst and the
. Howe, C, g.; Beisenherz, f .; On Mighty Pens (The Creation) u-0iv, ,n i
Died at Napoleon Hall, f. i W )VelcJ dld he feature P1
tt. t , i- iv.- -i i- i fr the local team.
Mrs. Lauck of this City died Come to the Garden - Salter , ,
at the home of her sister, Mrs. Dr. Payne's Son Injured in Ju,,e? ' Koenick was on the
, . rp , . , - - ctne jiigii otnuoi court in me old
late, Tuesday evening while V r- ,T t, ,
Monday afternoon. Mrs. ' gil Shelby was on his way to the : VifToS)te' d'Amo,e p - I w tnZ "ith tt
t iii ... v . i ii YN . (losca) - - Piirnia witnessed the game. The High
I.JMirM." hnH noon i'icifirrr Vioi. t-..-. -Tnrif fr. r.f rM XT Ty Ti TT l. ., i .i: ...i t. i i ol
uvv.ii vigiuug JiCl fia- av.JJVL tJ IIKCk 11. 1 . 13. lUVIie " " ucl ul VCUieillO .HiUlUin C.Vinl rr' 1 Ml 111 1
U.... (I..V n . 1 I I UIM VI t.t n I 1111111:11111' I V M
i return game at Marshall in the
jonn out receiving no answer
went forward to investigate and
i i ...
ciose to an excellent program
that represented adequate tech
found him lying on the ground nic, musical understanding, and ' ter and was taken ill just twenty'hrrttas returning from Kansas
with a bullet wound in tho W
with a bullet wound in the back j professional poise,
ot the head. Only one shot hac' The
, ....tivn.vwj t-lVKlUl 1 VX11"
hit the man but that was in a J braced the following
Grave-Allegro molto e con brio
Adagio cantabile
Allegro (Rondo)
most vital spot and death must . Sonate Pathetique
have been instantaneous.
After the discovery of the
tragedy all thought for the rob
ber was forgotten. He
his escape. Mr. Tappmeyer says
that he finds only two pairs o
shoes missing.
minutes before her death, which City, the Doctor's little son, who The Lover's Shallop -was
due to heart trouble. was in the car with Shelby feUiJsiuVbereo!iIgghroa.d
She was born in Lafavette out and was auite nainfnIlv'Ah! Love but a Dav
Beethoven County about fifty-nine years bruised. The door of the car on ! a
- - .nu.ir rc
ago. She is survived by one the little fellow's side came onon Love Me
daughter, two sisters, and four and in reaching for it, he lost j Wheremy Caravan has rested
Polonaise. C chnvn minni
madeiya.r"m
rruimngsrauscnen
Chopin
Schumann
brothers. Her sister, Mrs. P. his balance and fell out on the Chanson Provencals
;V. Ihompson of this city went pavement. While the boy wa:
- S" ;near future- and if th(?y disPla'
Gihhour the real basketball then, as thev
'''''""'''! did in the last half Friday night
Dennett they will easily even the scores
"""W'Vwith the Marshall Highs.
Dell'Aqua
! A la bien Aimee
I Air de Ballet
' Barcarolle-Venitienne
Das Spinnerlied
Last Game of Season j
The Wentworth basketball Mrs. J. B. Mitchell, and son, Wednesday afternoon
team win piay me lvansas uty .Jack, who has been visiting Mrs. o'clock. Rev. R. N. Allen con
veterinary toiiege, Saturday i W. Z. Mitchell left yesterday dnrteH thp QPrv,voa
B. C. Drummond went to St.
Louis, Thursday night to attend
a meeting of the State Demo-
The ferry boat which was cratic Committee, which met
badly damaged several weeks there Friday. Friday night he
binding to Napoleon Tuesday morning, bady shaken up and most pain- Kerry Resumed Service Tuesday
. .. T'U rt Iwl.. ... 1 1 ii-r l..ll 1. ? .... . J
Schutt me uuuy was uruugnt to L,ex- i uny uruisea, nis condition is
Chaminadc ington Wednesday morning and not considered serious.
j i takpn to iha Vinma rf Vim. .
Vaguer-Lizt Mrs. P. W. Thompson, from Programme for Babv Week ag0 by the lce' has been rePaired attended the banquet given by
which place the funeral was held March 4 to 11.
at 1:3( Saturday Fla or T)v
w - o
Sunday Appropriate Sermons
and luesday commenced crossing.
the State Committee to the
Democratic editors.
evening, March 3rd., at the Ac-; for a visit in Kansas City before
ademy gymnasium. This will be (returning to her home in St
the last game of the season. ' Louis. Mrs. Mitchell accomDan.
Game called at 8 o clock
at all the churches.
Monday Elk's Club at
p. m., Music; Reading,
2:30
Miss!
mission 25 cents.
Circuit Court Proceedings
Inp'r.nsp Tnna T;ir triorl hir n t:ui. t-. .
A(L ipfl tnpm na fr n. TTo .,!.... . , " " "J .ugiit; Auuress, ur. aiary
- 'tj-.jury at tne February term or Stephens, of Kansas City.
lO! a Visit. iu n: :i r i
jKr -i-.- Ft-'-'4
?l 1113! i:
it Hvn-
: mm
i -, ..'...
...
::! DC N'T
5
. , j I i' ... ..'
i.
1:UT YOUR FOOT IN IT
it
4
by h;;inr; th.it Mi! of I.iip.ibtT without fir, t getting ou"
prices.
s e ill- qiuility of cur stock and get ovr prices before
buying elsowhvre.
that's the only wav you can buy intelligently, because
there is absolutely no question about the superiority of our stock.
and when it comes ta prices, we allow nobody to under
sell us.
we lead; others follow.
if you want clear, bright Lumber, of uniform grade, make
it a point to buy at
"The Yard that Saves and SatifiCes."
LAMBERT LUMBER COMPANY
JOHN J. TRICE, Manager.
ft)
ku
s.....
- ft,
r r
31
the Circuit Court was concluded Wednesday p t h r A i t
Tuesday afternoon. The case Church. Sundav srhml mnm
Sallie II. 2:30 p. m., Music; Paper, Mrs'
damage- T. J. Greene: Talk to mothers-
was A. J. Huntley vs
Osborn, a suit for
brought here on a change of Miss Batson.
venue from Clinton County. Thr Thursday High School Audi
jury failed to agree on a verdict 'torium 8 p. m., Music by High
late mesciay aiternoon and wa
discharged.
Judge Davis adjourned cou'
until March 8, and returned tf
hi:? home in Marshall.
School Pupils; address, Dr. Mat
thews, President State Board of
Health; address, Dr. Ravenol,
Department o f Preventative
Medicine, Missouri University.
Friday South Side Chapel
2::.:0 p. m., Scripture Reading
Music; Talk to mothers, Mrs.
John Price.
Instructive slides and chart
timing with a horse and iunnshod by the Woman's Club
zy and on turning the corno will be shown at the Ornheim
and Cram! Theatres each evening.
Lce Ryan Breaks Ankle.
Sunday afternoon about foui
Spring Fashions
ARE CLEVERLY PORTRAYED IN THE NEW WOOLTEX
SUITS AND COATS
They are now on display in our Ready-to-Wear Department
and until you see them, you cannot realize how distinctively
now and charming thev really are.
WOOLTEX GARMENTS, embody Skillful variations of the
season's principle style features.
Then, too, their designers have added jVt the right ornamentation,
Embroidered Silk or linen col
lars, touches of braid and silk
trimmings, all so artistic and
harmoiii.nis.
HARMONY OF DESIGN
i-; but ONE of the many plowing
features o' these famous
r.unts.
o'clock, Lee Ryan, a young mai
en;i byed by Tilton Davis, Jr.
v. a
bu:
at Ki'Mh and Main Streets, the
.:y. t of the buggy came o!T
throwing him to the pavement
and breaking his right ankle.
.He was attended by Dr. McGil"
William Palmer Sells Saloon
i William Palmer Thursday sold
hi;, saloon on .Main street to
Gustav Haoile. Possession was
Mrs. J. W. Tadgett and chil
ren left yesterday for llar
lisonviile, Mo., from there they
will go to Deepwater, Mo to jo
her husband who is located there
r.Ir. Padgett formerily conduct
a second hand store on Frank!!
given immediately. The deal .Street.
;was made through the Wright; Mrs. S. D. Russell went to Kan
' Realty Company. s-as City Wednesday for a feu
days' visit.
M-"-. Flova Anderson went to' Miss Isabel Green went to
, Kansas City Sunday morning for Kansas City Wednesday for c
0)
i 1
1)1 W 1
fly' 58J0
rar-
WE IIAVi: A SPLENDID COL
LECTION OF D E S I R A B L E
MODELS, ALL OF WHICH
CORRECTLY rOUTRAY THE
NEW MODES.
REMEMBER
Only pure wool and pure Silk
Fabrics enter into the makiny of
Wooltex Garments in spite of
the scarcity of unadulterated
fi.brics.
OU
Be one of the t.rst to see these
Garments.
ijxifigtcii tjurcarilih
?-?? r
a visit.
visit.
..Mi. l 1.
