NtJUNERD QUITS N GILL
Ftreisr B®®gft(SiF Tsnra§ Aiiiaid IHlme Write S&iki Leftdssr
tunity to get rid of the strife, turmoil and petty quarrels that inevitably come with Hi Gill. Griffiths has been in the coun
cil. He has been chief of police. He headed the Playgrounds* association which gave Seattle Its playground system. He
is a member of the American Academy of Science. He is an experienced student of city affairs. He is a true friend of
municipal ownership. He is a man of high character, ability and courage. His work In the council has been praised on
every hand. His work as chief has been praised even by Gill. GRIFFITHS' ELECTION MEANS PROGRESS.
Ok Praia
tike Mask O® <SME
He did it in a speech at Green
Lake Thursday night. Read it on
page 8. Hanson will talk at
Dreamland rink Sunday night, at
the invitation of Dr. E. J. Brown.
Congress Stands Behind President in Armed Ship Dispute With Germany
LEADERS IN CONGRESS WHO HAVE OPPOSED WILSON'S SUBMARINE POUCY
TELLS WHY HE REPUDIATES GILL
STMMNC FOUNTS IN EEASTOS BEMNETO'S LETTEK f 0 HI GIX
If "You broke your fledged word with me. Xo man ran do that without protest. You
play fast and loose with your word.
ll'Tom say the city is clean. 1 say it is not. I notified your office last fall that things were
in a bad condition and the town.was getting too wide open."
fj "As to The Star, if what you say about it is true now, it was true when you went, hat
in hand, begged its aid, counselled with, and took the advice of, its editor. If here do
you get off on thatP"
Cj "You took Griffiths (as chief of police) to save yourself, and he certainly saved you.
\ow you repay him by abuse of him and his family."
C"ln more than 30 years familiarity with American politics, I never have read in print
such unwarranted, unfounded, untruthful and unjust slanders as you are uttering against
men and women. * * * Worst of all your attacks an Griffiths was your attempt to in
ject religion into politics by trying to raise the dead ghost of A.-P.-A.ism and attach it to
him. Austin E. Griffiths is no more an A. P. A. than I am."
CJ" Personally, / would feel ashamed to ren.ain a member of the park board by your ap
pointment."
ERASTL'S BRAINERD, a former editor of the Post-
Intelligencer, who tendered Wis resignation to Mayor
Gill Wednesday in a sharp note, explains the reasons for
his art in a letter to Gill Friday.
Brainerd was partly responsible for Gill's success two
years ago.
He was one of the men upon whose brains Gill de
pended in his campaign.
Now he has turned against the mayor.
His letter tells why. It reads as follows:
Seattle, March 2, 1916.
Iliram C. Gill:
Two years ago Seattle was threatened by riot and
bloodshed.
Election of the then strongest mayoralty candidate
would have, in my opinion, inevitably precipitated that di
grace and dishonor upon the city.
Knowing your political facility; abo that your rofn-a 1
to remove Wappenstein when you knew of hi- rvil doing,
had involved you in di-gracc, which you charged chiefly to
me—it occurred to me that, altho the newspapers were
practically closed to you, perhaps you might l»- the mo«t
available instrument for preventing an even greater dis
aster than your election might prove.
At the suggestion of a former «ity councilman you
called at my office. The first remark I made to you wii
(I took notes of questions and answer- at the time) :
"If I should write a letter favoring your candidacy,
would it hurt you or help you .'"
Your answer was: "Would you do that for in< ? If
you woulfj, I believe it would elert me."
As you usually speak in extremes of praise or abuse,
lack of self-control being your chief known weakness, 1
made due allowance for your extravagance
I then a-ked, "If and , representing the em
ployers, asked you to use force against the strikrrs, what
would you say;-"
"Tell them to go to hell," was your answer
"If and , representing the unions, were to
a«k you to use force against the nun union worker*-, wlnt
would you say ?"
"'I ell them to go to hell, too "
Other matters now immaterial were discussed.
Austin E. Griffiths'election as mayor will mean two years
of peace and progress for Seattle. It is Seattle's oppor-
The Seattle Star
: THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS l^)
VOLUME ia
Pledged His Word Not to Run Again
You pledged me your word of honor then that nil you
wanted was vindication, that under no circumstances and
under no influences would you run for office again.
I told you: "If you mean that and will stiik to it, I
will be for you; otherwise not."
Last year, when the mayoralty pot began to boil, I
went to your office, which I had avoided as much as pos
sible, and cautioned you that an attempt would be made
to ti«c you as the most convenient club to beat Krickson
with. You told me that "the hoys in the office," meaning
vour law firm, were making more money than there was
in the mayoralty, that you were determined to get back to
th»- practice of law, and you had no intention of being
forced into the fight.
Later you said you might get in if Erickson ran.
Then I knew you wanted the job again.
I told your best friend then that if you ran and
should happen to be elected, before your term ended you
would almost surely lie deep in the mire out of which you
had been pulled, and that if you ran I hoped you would be
beaten, for your own welfare.
You broke your pledged word with me
No man can do that without protest.
You play fast and loose with your word.
The I'ost Intelligencer was right in the last campaign,
when it nd \ < >11 were the virtuous reformer on the first
hill and winked the other eye "below the line.
You say the i ity is dean. I say it is not.
I notified your office last fall that things were in a
bad condition and that the town was getting too wide open.
Tells of Lang and Escapade at Tate's
When yon had your four-flushing row with Lang over
the Tate'' cab affair, you knew there were more incidents
behind that, particularly one involving a man now on your
campaign committee, who makes a fat thing out of the city.
He was sent to me from your office, squealing for shelter
from an exposure which he really deserved.
As to The Star, if what you say of it is true now, it
was true when you went, hat in hand, begged its aid, coun-
SEATTLE, WASH., ERIDAY, MARCH 3, 1916.
(Continued on pagt 8;
DR. BROWN CHALLENGES JILL
An o[x>n challenge has been extended to Mayor 0111 by Or E. J
Itrown to miwt him In debate on the tax lasue Sunday night at
l»re»mland rink
I>r llrown has secured the hall and will hold the Bimllu. wheth
er <5111 accept* or not.
At the InvHatlon of I> Urown, Ole Hanaon. one of the l>e*t ora
torn In the (tate. alsn wtll address the meeting on the subject. "HI
0111. the Man."
The meeting will begin at * o'clock
Meeting* Erlday night will l.e held aa follow*
OR!KEITHS Mark Wright hall. Elnley and Halnler ave . * p m :
Settlement house, lulnler and Atlantic. Ole Hanaon also
will apeak at these meeting*.
OM.U —Maaoolr ha:i. Eremont. t ntveralty. Hank building
OTTO A CASE Phalen'a hall, Columbia. to which all other candl
datea for the council alao are Invited.
DOUAMONT IS IN
TEUTONS' HANDS
Take Village Near Verdun
After Two Weeks'
Struggle
BATTLE IS ON AGAIN
BY CHAS P. STEWART
LONDON, March 3.—Doua
mont. four mllea northeast of
Verdun, around which a heavy
battle has raged for daya, is
now in German hands.
The Berlin official statement
today claimed capture of the
village, along with 1,000 pria
onera. while Paris officially ad
mitted that the enemy had
reached the town.
Berlin said its men were now
driving west and aouthwest
from the village.
The Pari* adnil**lon aald the
Teuton* had pierced the Itnuamonl
line* after suffering "cruel losses,"
but declared the struggle for |>os
session of the village Continues
Repulse »f attack* east of the vil
lage of Vaux wa* claimed by the
Erench.
The Oerman* now are bombard
ing the region southeast of Verdun,
while the French fire aero** the
Woevre plain ha* prevented the
Teuton* from advancing
Verdun Itself has been under fire
from Herman airmen.
Malnnconrt and 'Hmicourt, nine
miles northwest of Verdun, were
bombarded over night with n mid
den violent strength
An unconfirmed Stockholm re
port savs Field Marshal Von Mack
eii7.en, heretofore commanding the
Hermans In Serbia and Poland, has
taken direction of the Western of
tensive and has Joined the kaiser
and (rown prince.
Cote du Polvre the Pepper
Heights -Is under heavy fire, bs
are positions westward, across the
Meuso.
On the northern end of the We"!
ern front, the lirltlsb, by a sudden
thrust, recaptured Nflrt yards of
trenches, causing critics to believe
perhaps the English forces are en
deavorlng to draw the Herman fire
hv keeping the Teutons busy far
from Verdun.
♦ •
WEATHER FORECAST
Rain tonight and Saturday.
♦ ♦
ONE CENT
PARLIAMENT TO
RE DISSOLVED?
Canadians Are in State of Ex
citement Over Graft
Charges
PREMIER IS MISSING
REOINA. Sask.. March With
spectacular auddennesa. the Scott
government bn* yielded to united
demand* of oppoaltloti and the re
volting liberal* for a judicial In
quiry Into bribery charges that
have rocked the province from end
to end the past week.
The bolt wan shot at the open
Ing of the session yesterday even
Ing. The news of the cipture of
H. S. Devllne, one of the fugitive
member* In the Cnlted Slates, the
binding over In the police court of
two member* and ex member un
der $.">,o'>n bond* for accepting
bribe*, the report ttint road* graft
Investigation had n I ready disclosed
that $180,000 Is missing and prepa
rations of the liberal committee of
40 to circulate all over the prov
ince n petition, nskins; the lieuten
ant governor to demand a royal
commission were prelude* to the
real sensation of the day.
This morning It I" "aid tho gov
ernment will link for dissolution of
parliament when the work of ses
sion Is concluded Saturday or oar
ly next week, permitting the two
royal commissions to finish their
work and report to the lieutenant
governor. No word Ins been re
reived as to the whereabouts of
the missing premier.
GRIFFITHS AND
ARE OF SAME FAITH
Msnv Inquiries Imii' com>> Into
The Star office for Information as
to the religious affiliations of the
candidates for mayor.
Religion should have abso
lutely no placc In American
politics. Especially Is there no
plsce for It In this campaign,
where there are no religious
differences between H. C. GUI
and A. E. Griffiths. Both are
Protestants, neither is an
A. P. A.
0* A""
SENATE GIVES
APPROVAL BY
68 TO 14 VOTE
3. — President Wilson's
petition tn the intecoa
tional situation wu up
held today by the senate,
when that body voted to
table the Gore resolu
tion, which called for a
warning to American# not
to travel on armed ships.
It was just 10 minutes and 40
seconds from the opening of debate
until Vice President Marshall an
nounced the vote. Chairman Stone
of the foreign committee, who yes
terday confessed himself not In
agreement with all of President
Wilson's views, voted "Aye" on the
resolution, after Borah, objecting
to Stone's attempt to explain Sen
ator Salisbury's absence, had said
"I object to any remarks. If the
senate Is to be gagged, the whole
senate must bo gagged."
Poll) Sen. Jones and Sen. Poln
dexter of Washington voted "aye."
The senators opposing were:
liorah. Chamberlain. Clapp. Cum
mins. Fall, Galllnger. Gronna.
Jones, I.a Follelte, McCumber, Nor
rls, O'Gonnon, Sherman and
Works.
Senator Cumber opened the fight
unexpectedly by offering a substi
tute for the (iore resolution, de
daring that In view of questions
as to the validity of the submarine
situation. It was the duty of even
American to abstain from the right
to travel on armed ships until
President Wilson and other coun
tries had agreed on submarine mat
ters.
This resolution wag tabled.
Thereupon Senator .lames called
up the (lore resolution and demand
ed the ayes and nays on tabling it.
Virtual Ultimatum Offered
Gore countered with an amend
ment to his resolution, and asked
permission to discuss it.
Tl stated that death of an Amer
lean thru a submarine attack should
be deemed a cause of war.
This eleventh hour move came as
an unexplained surprise, as it
meant practically a new resolution
amounting to an ultimatum to the
central powers, and subsequent de
velopments showed It caused a
change of several votes.
Calls for a Roll Call
Vardaman favored the original
resolution, but voted to kill the
amendment
James again demanded a vote.
Galllnger demanded another read
ing of the original Gore resolution
with the amendment. This was
done.
Clark interposed with a point of
order thai the amended resolution
could not be considered today.
At ihis point Ashurst cried out:
|"I call for a roll call."
This began at 11:40.
lly the single record roll call, the
senate swept aside not only the
Gore resolution, but also tile amend
ments an 1 substitutes, and clinched
the whole question in favor of the
president.
House Expected to Follow
Following similar action, which
the house Is expected io take quick
ly. the way will be cleared for the
state department to resume Its no
iAIT'T
-L EDITION J.
WASHINGTON*. Mar
and to which Wilson was
opposed.
The vote was to 14
in favor of tabling.
The senate's action was
t..ken amid dramatic
scenes, unparalleled since
the declaration of war
upon Spain.
Substitute Resolution Tabled
gotlations In the I,usltanla caa*.
After the Gore vote, Stone tried
to call up the Jones revolution pro
viding that the president refrain
from any art that wottld get tt»«"
I t'nlted State* Into war. and to ad
viae the senate of hi* moves.
Jones. however, defeated this plan
by withdrawing the resolution.
Moreover, he said that he would
not introduce It again.
James. massive Kentucklan, led
the administration forces, roared
down the opi>ositlon, iind forced the
final vote
Believe Air la Clearer
The vote ratified President Wil
son'* free hand In the foreign ne
gotiation*
And since the president h»d
been freely quoted as saying '.hat
If congress tonto part In handling
the German 'Mtuatlon. war might
not be an Improbability "he vole
was regarded as clearing away the
war clouds, which administration
leader.' said had lowered last
i night.
Several congressmen, however,
took the view that. In turning over
to the president a full power In ne
gotiations. the senate had commit
ted itself to whatever course lie
might take, even If it led to war.
Bay> Senate Wat Gagged
Sen. Jones contended that th«
senate had been gagged and that a
vote on the merits of the resolu
tion had been prevented. He pre
dicted the issue would come up
again.
Sen. Olnrke declared:
"If President Wilson is wrong,
he ought to be stopped. We arc
not going around with a chip on
our shoulder, nor are we going to
war because of an academic ques
tion. upon which even college pro
fessors are not agreed."
May Come Up Again
"We have reached no con
clusion." said ('.allinner. "I should
have voted for the right* of Ameri
cans to travel on an armed ship,
but 1 would not do go under a gag
rule."
Borah termed the senate action
a "degradation," while Sherman
called it "cowardice and evasion.'
Many Intiniutcd that the vote is
not final, and it seemed certain
that if a break with Germmv
threatened, senators will renew
their fight for congressional ac
tion.
A Big Sale With
Big Opportunities
Carl Schernier finds
himself with entirely
too much stock on
hand. So with charac
teristic energy he has
decided to have a big
sale. He has cut prices
in a way to delight the
hearts of economical
folks. He has prepared
a regular bargain
feast, and he has a full
page ad on page { ) to
day which tells all
about it.
