BOOST AND HELP THE OTHER FELLOW
"A I
Volume 2
Houston, Miss., March 3, lOlG.
Number 1I
OUR MOTTO
1
1
NATIONAL RABY WEEK
' BEGINS MARCH 5TH.
-BOOST FOR BETTER BABIES-
Tlio great movement for better babies begins March
5th anJ lasts thru the following week. In every town and
city in the United States' meetings and discussions will be:
enthusiastically carried out and it is the desire of the;
boosters a id originators of the movement that everybody ;
help the best they can in the preseat and future education j
and development of the precious babies be ng born by the!
thousands all over America. The boosters also desire j
better training for motherhood, for therein lies the future:
stability of the great American republic. We gladly print j
the following articles prepared and sent to us by Mrs.!
.John Hill and Mrs. Eva Handle:
"Baby week should be a community campaign in'
which every one should. feel that he has a part. It was
inaugurated by the Department of Labor at Washington
to instruct many in the better care of her own baby and
to bring mothers more closely together in working for the
betterment of their common interest. It is a National
movement and the Department urges ALL to think dur
ing the entire week of ways and means of improving con
ditions in our community towards baby health.
The following clippings are some "Helps" along this
line:
Mow to Keep Baby Well. j
Don't forget to Jive baby wuter frequently. If it wakes at night, j
don't feed it; give it a drink of water Don't give the baby drills with- j
out the doctor's advice. Don't handle baby too much. The more you j
handle it, the more nervous you make it. The baby should have a tub ;
bath every day. Don't let the baby sleep with its Mother. This is bad
for both mother and baby. Dress your baby only in loose fitting clothes ;
so that it can move its arms and legs. It needs to kick for exercise.
Don't keep the baby in the house. Keep it out doors as much aspossi-;
ble. Keep the windows open all night and all day. Don't let flies,
loose safety pins or rubter pacifiers come near the baby. Screen your
windows and doors as flies are carriers of disease. If the baby has
diarrhoea, stop all food for 24 hours. Give only boiled wnter until you
seethe doctor.
Rubber Pacifiers.
The baby rubber pacifier, so popular with morhers is both filthy
and dangerous. In the first place, there is always danger of serious in
fection. In addition to this, the mouth arch is sometimes changed to
such an extent that the child acquires an idiotic look which never dis
appears. Care of Bottles.
After using bottles, wash with cold water, then clean with borax
and hot water, using brush. (One tenspoonful of borax to one pint of
water.) Keep clean bottles upside down upon clean shelf. Boil bottles
before using agnin.
Care of Nipples.
After using, rinse with cold water, then turn inside out and scrub
well with brush and hot water. Keep them in a cup of borax water be
tween feedings. Before using always rinse them in boiling water. The
Census Bureau estimatod in 1911 that a hundred and twenty-four deaths
of babies omired for every 1,000 live births. The same conditions which
cause the death of thirteen out of every Kit) babies born thruout the
world leave more or less permanent stamps on perhaps two or three
times as many .more babies who manage, to crawl over the infant dead
line, many of whom will be fathers and mothers of the next generations.
How To Prevent A High Infant Mortality Rate
1. Intelligent care by the mother.
2. Public health or visiting nurses
3. Improvement of milk supply.
4. Betterment of community conditions.
Overcrowding, insanitary houses and streets, bad water and bad
sewerage are potent factors in causing high infant mortality rate. The
communiry is responsible for the protection of its babies from these
dangers and remember YOU have a share in this work.
Nerviousness And Use of the Pacifier
The most important cause of exessive nervbnsness in infants and
young children is the delicate structure of the brain at this time, and its
rapid growth. It great as much during the first year as during all the
rest of the life. This require quiet and peaceful surroundings. Infants
who are naturally nervious should be left much alone, should see but
few people, should be played with very little and should never be
quieted with soothing syrups or the pacifier
Babies under six months old should never be played with; and the
less of it at any time the better for the infant.
Playing with young babies makes them nervioua and irritable, sleep
Wr.T--'iiVri" Yi"toiiil'i"nnTii H iBW'i 'in i
ave Money;
To Our Customers:--
Modern business requires modern methods, and this store is determin
ed to move forward with the most progressive.
We solicit a share of your patronage and promise you good goods, low
prices and courteous treatment.
We are pushing for business and we need your assistance.
YOU NEED THE GOODS; WE NEED YOUR TRADE. WHEN
WE BUY FOR CASH WE GET A DISCOUNT
- WHY NOT YOU? -
For each Cash Purchase at our store a receipt will be given.
All Cash Receipts are Valuable. SAVE THEM.
!
fj
I They can be redeemed any time for merchandise at 5 per cent, of the amount
w printed on the receipts.
i These receipts are issued by a mechanical cashier of the most approved de
ar; sign which was recently built to our express order by the National Cash Register
Company.
i
Banks pay you 4 per cent, interest on money you save.
We pay you 3 per cent, on money you spend.
THE DIXIE BARGAIN HOUSE
! Houston,
Kleban & Matz, Proprietors
Mississippi
Parent-Teacherf Assotiation
The special meeting of the Parent-Teacher
Asseciation, on the 25th
ult was marked by the evident
spirit of cooperation and truly
heart-to-heart talks which charact
erized it. Several ideas were
brought forward that should inter
est every parent in town and the
adjourning country district. We
would like to give you a pen review
of same but all present were en
joined to not generally discuss this
meeting. The next regular meet
ing, March 10th, holds the promise
of important discussions to be made
and a full attendance should be
speak the unanimous interest and
cooperation of the entire city und
countryside.
The writer openly confesses that
if she had no real interest in the
welfare ?f her own children and
the boyi and girls of our school
' she would still be interested to that
extent that would go to hear the
the fulfillment of the assertion: "I
' can tell them of some things that"
But why anticipate future interest:
l 1U rnv renort of our ast retfnlar
meeting I made the mistake of
writing down Miss Mary Thornton
as hostess when I should have said
, said Miss Mary Scott. I regret this
slip o'pen or memory and here and
: now I ask Miss Scott to excuse me
with thai same sweet graciousness
that charmed her guests on that, to
us, memorable evening.
Van Rish Dendy,
P,T. A. Reporter
BUNCH SWEET POTATO SEED
FOR SALE,
i I have several bushels of fine
bunch sweet potato seed for sale at
market price. Call, write or phone
nie at Houlka. Miss.
John I. Ingram.
Mr Earl Crum who has been
working in New Albany the past
year came home this week and he
w ill work here. Earl's many friend's
are glad to welcome him home "for
good."
badly, and suffer from indigestion and many other respects.
If they aie played with at all it should be in the morning or after
the midday nap, but never just before bedtime.
The necessity of system in the care and feeding of infants and
young children cannot be over estimated. They should be bathed, fed.
and put to sleep at regular hours each day.
On no account should the pacifier or the sucking of fingers be allow
ed. When persisted in it may produce a misshape mouth or fingers. It
constantly stimulates the flow of saliva and certainly aggrevatas distur
bances of digestion. It may lead to throat or other infections of the
mouth. ( From Holt's Care and Feeding of Children.
The Crying Baby.
In a goodly percentage of cases of crying babies the youngsters are
healthy, fairly well 0urished and may grow lustly. When tie baby
does not thrive and gain in weight, the untoward condition should be
sought out and remedied. In the majority of cases of this class the
trouble is due to wrong habits. These nearly always relate to i nprojer
feeding. Tne more common trouble is feeding too often, or "every time
he cries." The stomach of the new-born babe is a small and delicate
affair, and what goes into it, and when and hiw, are matters of vital im
portance. Nearly everything depends upon the way the babe is started
out. Improper methods of feeding can engender habits which cannot be
be broken up for weeks or months. It would be well to instruct every
mother as to the capacity of her infants stomach, which is as follows
At birth, one ounce; two weens, two ounces; three months, four and
one-half ounces; Six months, six ounces; one year, nine ounces.
"PERHAPS"
The foollowing poem clipped from The Chicago Ex
aminer tells volumes in just a few lines. In it is embodi
ed truths that are disgraceful to Democratic Government
and we believe a campaign incessant and unceasing should
be waged for the better care of babies, for better training
of father and mother and for a general uplift of family re
production. Now, of course, the fight is on, but NOT of
necessary backing by all the people. It means a campaign
of education larger than anything along popular eiuca
tive lines ever attempted and it means forever and forever
sticking to it for results.Just why the government does not
try to help mothers and children is beyond our reach.
Looking at it from every viewpoint, it seems to be one of
the FIRST attribute of good government, for upon the
coming manhood and womanhood is builded the perpetua
tion of the grandest Democracy ever conceived by La
mind of man. But selfishness, the thought that we MUST
live now for ourselves and let posterity go togeewhilhiveus,
and other lazy "ideals" go to make the machinery of
government inactive, unresponsive and disgustedly " tit
of order." Still we believe that the brains of the people
who want better babies to grow up will finally put forth
great educational victories for the rearing of childre.i. t .1 ".
time has long since come when children should be iv id
and truly "reared" and not merely "RAISED" on hi ,n.
bad environment, superstition, crazy notions and ge ie.d
unknown ways of diet, clothing, example and educ ui i i.
So The Hummer happily joins in with this movement and
we humbly offer the pages of the paper to further the
Godly cause of BETTER BABIES. Now read the poem.
When cows fall ill, the government proceeds to take alarm.
And sends a Veterinarian to sanitate the farm.
The cow herself is put to bad and plied with drugs an 1 pi I Is
And Uncle Sam comes forward, when she's cured, to p ty
the bills.
But when a baby falls in need of medicine and care,
The government contend that that is none of its affair.
When pigs and lambs are threatened with a deadly pestil
ence. Their tender lives are guided at the government's
expense.
They're coddled, nursed and dieted, until they are well and
fat.
And never reckon of the cost, for Uncle Sam pays that.
But when an epidemic marks the babies for its own.
The government, untroubled, lets them fight it out alone.
Some day, perhaps, when all the pork has lavishly been
passed,
When every scrap of patronage is handed out at last,
when all our noble Congressmen have got all they de
sire, And have attained whatever heights to which they may
aspire
Then to unknown heights of COMMON SENSE the govern
ment will leap,
AND DO AS MUCH FOR MOTHERS AS THEY DO FOR
COwS AND SHEEP!"
Y Houston Hotel Barber Shop
Solicits Your Patronage.
. . SANITARY BARBER SIIOP . .
0. C. Ehrlich, Proprietor
