oflfl TtTTTT zl <1 jX) ______
I.KVK.VI'H YEAR. No. :it
tVAKMMJ FOR THE FUTURE.
All towns In the chrysalis stage he
re developing into cities make gre
ets mistakes along the line of pub-
Improvements. That Is the record
every city in the land, and if the Ini
d mistakes lend to the exercise of
re, caution and better Judgment
bsequently the experience may be
otitablc in the end, although work
e; a hardship upon those who are
lied upon to pay for the original
rots. It will strike the observer
mehow and somewhere the grading
d macadamizing of certain streets
Orovllle last fall, of Which we
ire so proud at the time, was one
those mistakes, not but the improve
>nt was sadly needed, but in the
ithod and manner in which that
>rk was performed. The macadam
>d streets were pretty to look upon
ten first completed, now they are a
igusting sight to behold and creates
desire among those who are com
lled to travel them to indulge in
tguage that was not taught them at
»ir mother’s knee. The stranger
ising over them would hardly believe
at these streets were graded and
vered with rock only a few months
o.
However, there is no disposition at
is time to condemn the contractors
d raise a howl over the character of
e work. What’s done can’t be helped
w. and nothing is to be gained by
olonged kicking. We were all in
vor of the improvement, and thought
the time it was finished that it was
permanent and creditable job. No
otest was tiled at any time against
p contract as a whole. Those short
fetches that were found fault with
rned out to bp the best part of the
ark. As a justification to any refer
ee to the mistake it is not necessary
call attention to the present condi
m of the streets where generally
nveled, for it Is a condition that
nres everybody in the face. The one
lint that we wish to emphasize is that
the future those in authority take a
bsoii from the first civic improvement
I by contract and see to it that an
her such mistake is not made. We,
ho are called upon to pay for what
s already been done in that line will
eet the hill, more or less cheerfully,
eling that as pioneer payers for pub
e improvements we are possibly
aching the population a lesson that
ill prove of great value in the future.
I.ANII VALUATIONS FOR l»l«.
rst class grain lauds, rich
black soil 115 to S2O
icond class grain lands
heavy volcanic soil $lO. to sls
lird class grain lands,
light volcanic soil $8 to sl2
her dry taim lauds $5 to $lO
ry lands with prospective
water right ;.. .$lO to S2O
it,flatted li.uds, held for
townsite purposes SSO to SIOO
endow lands S2O to S3O
razing or pasture lands $3
sab or rocky lands $1
tuber land, good for farm
ing when cleared $5 to $lO
ruber lands, poor for farm
ing when cleared $2.50 to $5.0!)
umj lands $1.50 to $2.50
iw orchard lands, under
irrigation project S2O to S4O
rigated farm land, good
for three crops of alfalfa
and without water charges S6O
ub irrigated alfalfa an*
farm lauds S4O to S6O
rchard lands, Ist class, un
der irrigation project—
tees up to 3 years old S4O
rees up to 4 and 5 years old ....SSO
rees 6 years old S6O
rees 7 years old S7O
rees 8 years old SBO
'rees full bearing SIOO
Consideration will be given to loca
on of the land, distance from shipping
acuities, condition of roads, domes
ic water supply or any other condl
ions that might add to or detract
rum the above schedule.
A REMINISCENCE.
While at the depot last Sunday we
noticed the initial letters C. B. & Q..
spread out on one side of a passenger
car, and that car was a long ways
from its regular beat. It Is doubtful if
those letters were of any particular
significance to other eyes that may
have taken them in, and maybe few
who did observe them had any Idea as
to what railroad they stood for, as they
are not a common sight in this remote
part of the country. However, they
were a gentle shock to us, the first
time that we had seen them decorat
ing the side of a car for years, and
jerked our memory back over the
rocky road of time nearly 60 years,
forcefully reminding us of the first
time we saw a locomotive, recalling
the sensations of that experience, still
fresh in memory, although occurring
so long ago.
Those cabalistic letters, C. B. & Q.,
si unit for one of the oldest railroads
in the middle west, the Chicago, Burl
ington & Quincy. Of the dizzy ramifi
cation of railroads running in and out
ot that great metropolis, Chicago, the
C. B. & Q.. was one of the first to reach
out Hb tentacles to the Mississippi
river. The main road was built to
Galesburg, Ills., and from that point
one feeler branched off nearly due
west to Burlington, lowa, and the
other In a south-westerly direction,
terminating at that time at Quincy,
Illinois.
I.ate one evening in the summer of
185", when a very, very young lad, we
stood on the platform of a small sta
tion a few miles east of Burlington, in
company with our parents, awaiting
the train. A railroad train then was
ait enchanting mystery to us, the infan
tile mind not being able to grasp even
an imperfect idea of what it really
was. Directly a dull rumble could be
heard in the distance, growing in in
tensity as the cause came nearer, ar
rousing rather unpleasant apprehen
sions in our mind. Then the great,
glaring single eye burned a hole in the
darkness, and what to us seemed a
great monster, wheezing. groaning,
throbbing, sobbing, emitting an un
earthly shriek drew up at the station.
Pear made our heart Jump almost into
our throat. We clung tremblingly to
our father's hand and pressed close to
his person, feeling that under the pro
tection ot his strong arm alone was
safety to be found.
Certain incidents occurring in child
hood leave indelible impressions that
time can never erase. The sight of the
Arst locomotive made such an impres
sion upon our mind, and even to this
day we never see the letters C. B. & Q,,
without instantly recalling that Arst
sight of a locomotive, and the sensa
tions that followed can be felt again
almost as keenly as when Arst exper
ienced.
AH this may not be interesting to the
reader, and If not, he is at liberty to
skip It. But the narrative helps to All
up a large vacant space, and also gets
a story off our chest that was never
before repeated.
A HUNT LINO QUILL DRIVER.
Rufus Woods, business manager and
thief owner of the Wenatchee Dally
World, was an arrival Wednesday, to
remain over until Saturday. Mr. Woods
is at the head of one of the most am
bitious little dailies in the country,
and not so very little at that, and
largely through his untiring industry
the paper has grown to be a marvel of
Journalistic enterprise, taking into
consideration the size of the town
where it is printed. Wenatchee, proper,
giving it the benefit of liberal figures.
Is a city of some 5,000 or 6,000 people,
and yet the Dally World is a larger
paper, and enjoys a wider circulation
than the majority of dailies published
in cities of 25,000 or more. The World
frequently appears as a ten and twelve
page paper and never less than eight
pages. It carries the Associated Press
telegraph service, and covers a wide
field in its local department. The of
fice Is splendidly equipped with mod
ern machinery, including a fine twelve
page Webb perfecting press. It is a
newspaper that any city might well
feel proud of and is a factor in the
business circles of Wenatchee which
the people of that city hardly fully ap
preciate.
In mentioning the presence of Mr.
Woods, it may be mentioned that he
has been touted by several of the
weekly papers of the Fifth district as
an available candidate for congress
on the republican ticket. Mr. Woods
would certainly have a strong backing
In the cow counties of the district
should he stand for the office before
the primaries, and if nominated his
election would certainly follow. And,
moreover, he would make a very cred
itable record In that position. While
gratified with and appreciating the
kindly endorsements that he has re
ceived from his brethren of the press,
Mr. Woods hardly feels that the honors
of the office would compensate him
for the loss he might sustain by leav
ing his business at the present time,
and he is not taking the suggestion of
candidacy seriously. Yet he may be
induced to run, and should he be in
fluenced to do so he would make it
hard sledding for his competitors In
the race.
. AN IMPORTANT TRANSFER.
One of the most Important real es
tate transfers that has ever been made
in Oroville was the purchase Saturday
oi the vacant lot on Main street, situ
ated between the Crescent Cafe and
F"imk & Son’s building, by .1. H. Bas
sett, late one of the owners of the
Palm confectionary establishment,
from Dick Case, who has held the lot
for several years. The Importance of
the sale does not rest upon any pros
pective Improvement to be made, al
though Improvements will undoubted
ly follow In the course of time, but up-
OROVILLE, WASHINGTON. MARCH 3, 1916
on establishing a new value for Oro
ville lots. This lot 1s vacant. It is
25x120 feet, and the consideration was
$1550. If we are not very much mis
taken this is the highest price that has
e'er been paid for an unimproved in
side business lot in the town, and in
dicates that investors feel that Oro
ville real estate is worth owning and
holding ns a safe and sure investment.
And Mr. Bassett made no mistake.
It was an excellent investment at the
price paid. The lot is not only most
advantageously located in relation to
the business center of the town, but
will continue to hold that advantage
for all time to come. It is a safe buy,
for the lot will never be worth less,
and has every prospect of greatly in
creasing in value. Mr. Bassett is not In
a position at this time to build, but
that is his intention, and when he does
build he will put up a substantial
block, which will contribute to en
hance the general appearance of the
business center of the place.
COUNCIL PROCEED!MIS.
Minutes of the meeting of the town
council of the town of Oroville. Febru
ary 28, 1916.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councllmen
Beale, Frlls, Smith and Bartel).
Minutes of the previous meeting
read and approved as read.
The health committee reported that
they had looked into the sanitary con
dition of certain parts of the town and
recommended that the alley between
Main and Spokane streets from rail
road to Central Avenue be ordered
cleaned up as soon as the weather will
permit.
The clerk informed the council that
he had seen Mr. Sigrist in regard to
the dumping of refuse in a gulch di
rectly west of the high school build
ing and adjoining the property of the
Okanogan Fruit and Orchard com
pany and that Mr. Sigrist had given
his consent providing that the refuse
was dumped in the gulch and not scat
teied out all around it.
The clerk was instructed to have a
notice published notifying the people
of the establishing of a dumping
ground and cautioning all parties that
they were liable to prosecution for
dumping on other property than that
designated as a dumping ground.
Mr. McMahan then appeared before
♦he council 'representing the town
band and asked that permission be
given them to build a room in the low
er part of the town hall for the use of
the marshal, the band to furnish all
the material and labor and the town
to be at no expense. Motion was made
by Councilman Beale, seconded by
Councilman Smith that the permission
be granted.
Mr. Wheeler appeared before the
council asking that they refund him
certain money that he had paid for a
horse sold by the town marshal for
pound fees, the owner of said horse
having obtained possession of said
horse. After some discussion in the
matter Mr. Wheeler was informed that
the council had no authority to return
his money to him until the six months
required by ordinance had expired, at
least.
On motion council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk
OBITUARY.
Wm. M. Erwin was born in Menard
county, Illinois, June 4, 1850, and died
at the Sacred Heart Hospital, in Spo
kane, February 23, 1916. The deceased
went to Nebraska in 1872, and took
up a homestead in Harlon county. In
1876 he was married to Mary E. Payn
ter. From this union seven children
were born, of whom four are still liv
ing to mourn their father’s death. They
are Jason R. Erwin, of Oroville, Wash.,
Bertha E. Powell, of Oroville, Wash.,
Tom Frank Erwin, of Alma, Neb., and
Della I’pllnger, of Republican City,
Neb. Mr. Erwin was taken down with
paralysis December 28, 1913, in Neb
raska. Jason Erwin went to Nebraska
to nurse his father in February, 1914,
and brought him out to Oroville in
May, 1915. About that time a cancer
developed on the lower lip that evi
dently caused his death. The funeral
took place from the Presbyterian
church, Oroville, Sunday, Rev, A. W.
Bond officiating. The special music
was provided by Mrs. Ida Cutler. The
body was laid to rest in the Oroville
cemetery. * * •
-
One school director is to be elected
tomorrow. So far nothing is to be heard
on the street regarding the pending
election, which Is somewhat odd con
sidering the excitement and conten
tion that has been noticeable at the
school elections of the past. Of course
there Is plenty of time yet to stir up
interest, in the choice of a director,
for generally it is the last minute
that opposition develops and trouble
ensues, Mr. Collier is the retiring di
rector, and as he has filled the office
very satisfactory there is no good
reason why the position should not be
sawed off on him again.
ALMOST A FIRE.
Oroville had a very narrow escape
from a serious fire Wednesday, when a
well developed blaze was discovered in
the basement of Mayor J. P. Samson's
large and elegant residence. The Are
was discovered just after the noon
hour. Mr. and Mrs. P. Calvert, who
have been occupying the residence
during the winter, noticed smoke in
the room when they sat down to lunch
and supposed the smoke was from the
furnace. The maid went to the base
ment, found the furnace smoking
slightly and shut off the draft. After
luncheon the smoke became still more
dense. The maid again went to the
basement, which was then full of
smoke and discovered Are burning
briskly in a small storage room. For
tunately Mr. Samson has a Are extin
guisher immediately at hand at the
head of the basement stairs that is al
ways charged and ready for instant
use. Mr. Calvert seized the exting
uisher and soon had the Are under
control, although the Annies had se
cured such a start that the ceiling was
burning. In a few minutes more the
building would have been doomed.
The cause of the Are is unknown, as
there are no electric wires In that part
of the building, nor had there been
any one in the room for some days.
Mr. Samson believes the blaze started
from spontaneous combustion, as there
were a few oiled curtains rolled up
and stored in the room. The Are almost
destroyed an old walnut bedstead and
a few articles of minor value.
WORKINcTfOR A FAIR.
Thoa. O’Neill, who originally sug
gested the holding of a district fair at
Orovilie, next fall, is not the man to
make a suggestion and then leave It
for others to carry out. He was in
earnest in advocating an exposition of
the kind, and is now busy laying the
ground work, so that producers can
prepare to make exhibits. He sees in
the proposed fair a great opportunity
to get out a display of the products
of this vicinity, especially under the
irrigation system, that will be of great
advertising value as showing what the
country can be depended upon to pro
duce. He is broad minded enough to
realize that in the union of town and
country interests there is strength,
and that such a combination will be
mutually beneficial. The fair will suc
ceed if earnest and persistent effort
contributes to success. Mr. O'Neill is
making a personal canvass to arouse
interest in the proposition and where
ver he has advocated the fair in public
In has met with hearty response and a
wiring disposition to lend assistance
in carrying out the project. Last week
Mr. O'Neill spoke on the subject at the
Mountain Gem, the Cordell, the Circle
and the Mount Hull school houses.
This week he visited the Ellemeham,
Golden and Wanicut school houses on
the same mission, and closed a busy
week Saturday with the Farmers’
Union, at a meeting in Orovilie. Such
zeal and push knows no such word as
fail, and if the town people extend to
him aid in the campaign of education
the district fair will be one of the
largest and best ever held in the coun
ty.
CIVIC LEAGUE DANCE.
The ladles of the Civic League will
give a social dance in the Orpheum
this evening. This is short notice of a
very interesting affair, but the fact
has been given circulation and a good
ly crowd can be expected. The dance
will be a pleasant affair, as it could
not fail to be under the auspices of
the organization behind it. There will
be firstclass music which is an im
portant feature for dancers to take
into consideration. The proceeds will
go to the benefit of the library, and
that is a cause that should especially
induce people to turn out and patron
ize the function. Buy a ticket even if
you cannot attend.
WHERE TO PLANT POTATOES.
In selecting a field in which to plant
potatoes some very vital points should
be taken into consideration. Potatoes
do best in a rich, sandy loam, abund
antly supplied with humus, and an
even supply of moisture. Sandy or
leached soils should never be used for
this crop. In this mountainous coun
try where the question of water is the
Important factor, it should ever be
born in mind that there is no better
storage for water in the soil than de
cayed vegetable matter.
Wherever possible use land that has
been previously sown in alfalfa or
clover for several years. The soil
should be plowed in the fall ten inches
in depth. This will allow the free cir
culation of air and moisture and will
cause the plants turned under to de
cay. If it Is not possible to use alfalfa
or clover land, the next best soil is
that which has grown a summer fallow
crop such as corn and which was
heavily manured. If this combination
is not possible use grain land, plow it
deeply in the fall and immediately
cover with a heavy application of well
rotted barnyard manure. Never use
fresh manure or lime on potato land,
as this will facilitate the development
of fungus diseases.
Very early in the spring the land
should be disked and harrowed so
that it forms a Arm seed bed free from
clods, with a dust mulch on the sur
face. Harrow frequently to destroy
weeds and maintain the mulch.
It is not advisable to grow more
than two successive crops of potatoes
on a Aeld. If any diseases occur, only
one crop should be grown. Tomatoes,
egg plants, peppers and ground cher
ries are plants of a kindred nature to
potatoes and have many diseases in
common with them, hence it is not well
to plant potatoes on land previously
cropped with any of these plants.
Potatoes should be planted eight
inches apart in rows three feet apart
in irrigated lands. In non-irrigated
lands the hills should be from fourteen
inches to three feet apart, according to
the amount of water In the soil, and
the amount of rainfall to be expected.
The proper depth of planting la from
two and a half to three inches. By
planting the hills close together med
ium sized potatoes will be formed and
such sized potatoes are more easily
marketed than are the larger ones.
Write to your congressman for
Farmers’ Bulletin 386, “Potato Culture
on Irrigated Farms of the West."
J. A. HUGHES,
County Agriculturalist and Agent U.
S. Dept, of Agriculture.
PANCAKE SUPPER.
The ladles of Trinity Guild will
serve a pancake supper in the library
building Shrove Tuesday (March 8,)
evening at 6 o'clock. Besides pancakes
there will be that delectable mystery
that goes so pleasantly with pancakes,
sausage, besides coffee and other
trimmings. The pancake properly mix
ed, and that is the way it will be
mixed, and hot off the griddle Just
done to a turn, Is one of the most apr
pealing products in the art of cook<
ery. It Is a favorite with both the old
and the young. In this instance the
cake wll come from the pan perfect in
every detail of construction. The ladies
do not propose to limit the patron to a
single cake, or two or three of them,
the quantity that will be served to any
one person will be limited only to the
storage capacity of that person. Re
member the date, next Tuesday even
ing, 6 o’clock, and the place and be
sure and be there.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Good music and gospel preaching
morning and evening. Morning service
at 11 o’clock, subject of sermon, ‘‘Pow
er.’’ Evening service at 7:30, subject
of sermon, "One Eyed People.” Sunday
school at 10 o’clock. Our Sunday
school is growing in numbers and in
spirit. Our aim is to make red-blooded,
manly boys and men and strong heart
ed womanly girls and women. If this
appeals to you come and Join us. You
can help us and we can help you. We
are going to look for you on Sunday.
Everyone is invited to all of our ser
vices. Come and bring your friends.
A. W. BOND, Pastor.
METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
Services for Sunday, March sth, Sun
day school at 10 a. m. Preaching ser
vice at 11 a. m. Subject of sermon,
"Perfect Obedience,” or “Doing the
Father’s Will.” Epworth League at
6:30 p. m. Topic, "Others as a Watch
word for Christians.” Leader, Miss
Bair. Preaching service at 7:30 p. m.
Subject of sermon, “Where are You
Putting the Real Emphasis in Life?”
Revival meetings now going on every
night in the week at 7:30 p. m. Every
body welcome: everybody invited; ev
erybody come. The homelike church
and the stranger's friend.
W. W. STRITE, Pastor.
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
(Rev. G. H. Severance. Vicar.)
Services for March 5. Morning ser
vice and sermon at 11 a. m. Sunday
school at 12. Services will be held
every first and third Sundays at 11 a.
m. All are cordially Invited to attend
these services.
The funeral of the late Wm. M. Er
win took place from the Presbyterian
church Sunday, which was attended by
a large number of friends of the fam
ily Mr. Erwin suffered from a cancer
ous growth on the Up, and a short time
ago went to Spokane to submit to an
operation. The unfortunate man died
from heart failure resultant from the
operation. Those who knew the deceas
ed in life speak of him in the highest
terms for his sterling qualities, and
his death is sincerely deplored by all
who had the pleasure of his acquain
tance. He leaves four children to
mourn his death.
NOTICE.
Notice is hereby given that a con
ference will be held at Odd Fellows
Hall In Oroville on Saturday, March
11, at 1 o'clock p. m. to consider the
matter of holding a district (air some
time in the coming autumn. All organ
ized bodies that are interested in such
an enterprise are invited to send rep
resentatives to this conference, to the
end that immediate steps may be taken
in organizing a fair association. Citi
zens representing unorganized inter
ests are also invited to attend and take
part in the conference. Let us all get
together and work with a good will for
a rattling good fair.
THOMAS N. O'NEILL,
Chairman Welfare Committee, Oro
ville Farmer’s Union No. 180.
Riley O. Hurlbert, of Touasket, one
of the oldest and best known ranchers
and cattle men in the north part of the
county, is laid up at St. Joseph's hos
pital. Thursday be was operated
upon by Dr. D. H. Lewis for appendi
citis. That common ailment is no re
specter of person and it puts a crimp
in the strong as well as the weak. Mr.
Hurlbert is a powerful, rugged cow
man, but when old appendicitis gripp
ed him he was as a child and suffered
intensely. The operation was so suc
cessful, and Mr. Humbert's general
condition so excellent, that he rallied
at once and has no appearance of a
sick man. The carving did not prune
his good nature, he is in fine spirits
and will be up and around in a few
days.
K. McCammon was exhibiting a twig
of a fruit tree in this office Monday,
portions of which were covered with
what be declared to be the red spider
and San Jose scale. The scale did not
appear to be exactly like what we have
seen in California, but that was 35
yeais ago, and the beast may have
changed bis raiment to some extent,
although as voracious and destruct
ive as at any time in his existence.
Tiie infinitesimal insects, be they what
they may, are a menace to the fruit
trees of the valley, and every owner of
trees should spray thoroughly this
Spring. It will be criminal for any
tree grower to neglect this duty, for
the trees that are not sprayed will be
breeding places for the pests and
make the work of those who do spray
useless.
The uninitiated would be surprised
tv know the number of articles, letters,
pamphlets, circulars boosting this, that
and the other thing or individual, that
hud their way to the country print
shop. Each and every one of these com
munications, whether printed or writ
ten, is sent to the country press in
hopes that it may find space in the col
umns of the paper to which it is ad
dressed. Public men, promoters, com
munities, public and private institu
tions have press agents who earn their
salaries by flooding the mails with
these communications. All are seeking
publicity without cost. These people
cither consider the country newspaper
man incapable of filling his own col
umns, or that he is a philantbopist
ready and willing to give away his
space for the benefit of others. This
paper could readily be filled every
week with these solicitations for pub
licity, and then room could not be
found for all of them. Still there is
some compensation in this flood of lite
rature for the general public, as the
postage aids in reducing the annual
deficit in the postoffice department.
The chief annoyance about the receipt
of these documents is that they keep
the waste paper basket constantly
overflowing.
Some time ago the immigration de
partment of the Great Northern sent
out blanks to a numbtr of people In
this county requesting a report upon
the yield of grain in this county last
fall. Chas. Powell of the Orovllle Com
mercial company took the little trou
ble necessary for the purpose to collect
some of the data required. He has Just
received a letter from Fred Graham,
western immigration agent, who stated
that Mr. Powell was the only man to
whom the blanks had been sent that
had taken the trouble to answer, and
thanking him warmly for his zeal in
helping to advertise the country. It is
to be regretted that more Information
has not been sent into the Great Nor
thern Immigration office. Never has
there been a better opportunity to ad
vertise the fertility of the lands of
Okanogan county. Take it all around,
more wheat was produced to the acre
in this county last year than In any
other portion of the state. It was some
thing to be proud of. Any year 40 or
more bushels of wheat to the acre Is a
common yield in that favored territory
around Molson, Chesaw and Havlllah,
and last fall HO bushels to the acre was
so common as to cease to attract atten
tion, and some ranches yielded as high
ns TO bushels. Why not let the outside
world know that Okanogan Is one of
the best wheat producing counties in
the west. The publicity would do the
county a vast amount of good.
91.60 PER TEAR
