CHASITON
COURIER
Volume XLVII
KEYTESVTLLE, CHARITON COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1916
Number 5
V
Call County Committee
The County Democratic Cen
tral Committee is called to meet
SupremeCourt to Review Decision at Keytesville Friday, March 3,
LOCAL OPTION AGAIN
Court Appeals Not Final
More Delay
to determine the number of dele
gates each township will be en
titled to in a county convention
to be held at Keytesville Mch.14.
This county convention will
select twelve delegates to the
Attorney Roy W. Rucker, on a
writ of certiorari, had the case of
State vs. Jack Edwards certified
from the Kansas City Court of state convention to be held at St
AtJDeal8 to the State Supreme Joseph, Mo., March 21.
Court, Wednesday. The various township meetings
This means that the validity for the selection of delegates to
of the local oDtion election last the counts corfvention shall be
held in this county has not been held on Saturday, March 11
finally determined as was sup
posed by all who knew and had
heard of the decision of the court
of appeals, except the attorney
appealing the case. If the Su
preme Court finds that the last
M. W. Anderson,
Chairman County Democratic
Central Committee.
Home Talent Play
The play put on at the Ameri
local oDtion election was invalid, can Theatre Tuesday night by
then there will be no local ODtion weal talent under tne direction
law in force in this county ex- of H. K, bnedeker. and Mane
cent the law which has been in Fuller was favored with a packed
force for veara. rivinar the towns house and every one present was
and cities the right to determine well pleased with the play and
whether liauors shall be sold, the Performers, borne oi tne locals
county as a whole having noth- made a decided hit, among wnom
ing to do with the question until was Dr. Ned Carlstead. From
another majority vote establishes t"e way ne presented tne part
the county local ODtion law. i jusuce.oi uie peace it is bus
This county is the only one in
the state where the question in
volved in the case of Jack Ed
wards has been raised.
pected that at some time he had
filled such an office, or had as
pirations for the future.
The receipts were about $60
and the net to the U. D. C's for
park purposes was about $16.
If the roads had not been in
Champ Sanderson Dead
One of the quietest, most un
obtrusive men ever in the city or 8Uch bad conditon there is little
a native oi tne county oieo oi a i doubt but that the houae wouid
i i j! I
complication oi uiseases oatur- have been fcntirelv too gma n to
day. Nearly every one knew accomodate the playgoers. Every
Champ Sanderson, for the 63 one wa3 weii Batisfied with the
yeareof his life Were spent prac- Trai 0f the Lonesome Pine as
tically in or near this city, and presented and Director Snedeker
maunis long years oi simple a-Ymiiahel m thin with
labor, no one was ever heard to a lot of raw recruits in a very
utter a word reflecting on nis gnort
honesty or fidelity to bis friends.
He was married to Lennie Daniel Winston Bayne
Case and two sons were born to I The subject of this sketch who
them, one and the mother being died at his pretty country home
dead some years, Lon surviving, four miles west of town Febru
in addition to two sisters, Mrs. ary23 aged 67 years, 2 months
Charles and Richard Thrash and and 8 days, was born in Lunen
one brother, John. berg county Va.
Sunday the remains were laid With bis parents he came to
to rest in Varner cemetery east this county in 1850 and settled
of town, Rev. Meyers holding 0n the farm where he died.
' ii l
anon services at me residence Rno t mrioA
ot tne deceased sister, mrs. w; erai. u0;n tarv waite
Charles Thrash.
For several years Champ San
derson had been ailing and able
Moore who wedded him in 1875
and to this union six children
were born; Holland H.. Jaunita,
to perform only light duties, but Mapv AM anfl nan w.. aurviv.
as little complaint escaped him as niarence. the eldest havin
would be heard from a stoic. j; 17 ,, Mow.!
i uiu a I j vi a sv mat j f v utwvi
ROAD FONDS SWELL
Splendid Spirit of Progressive-
ness. Banish Nearby Bogs.
Committees Active. '. '
The necessary funds for the
improvement of the bottom road
leading west of town are being
subscribed at a speed that pro
mises success.
The township board has indi
cated that it will appropriate an
amount equal to the road and
township taxes that are paid to
the township, by way of town
ship and road tax, from the col
lections that are made for such
ourDOses from the citizens of
Keytesville.
The total contributed from
other public sources and by in
individual donations so far is
highly satisfactory but not all
that is needed has been realized.
The action of the township
board is highly praised by every
one and the fund they have set
aside for the benefit of the gen
eral public being paid wholly by
taxpayers of this city, could not
have been more acceptably ap
plied.
High School Notes
Some of the boy scouts and a
few of the girls who wanted a
short hike went out north of
town Saturday.
The senior class has ordered
the invitations for its graduating
exercises some time in the dis
tant future.
Bacon's essays are the heavy
studies of the senior class in
literature and what Mr. Bacon
had to say on all subjects before
the class is highly improving.
Fifteen dollars was raised last
week for improvement of the
track, merchants contributing
principally.
On account of striking the
Trail of the Lonesome Pine Tues
day night, thd seniors gave over
practice on their play, not to
take notes, however.
Two members of the American
history class recite at 8:15 in the
mornings and their progress is
highly satisfactory.
Seniors have been set to read
ing out of school "Fairy Queen"
by Spencer, getting in pretty
deep literary water.
THE EUROPEAN WAR
Germans Push Onward to Paris.
Surrounding Forts Taken.
Great German Loss.
Pee Dee Prattle
James Jackson came near hav
ing a serious accident last Sat
urday while driving from his
home to the Masonic meeting at
Pee Dee. He drove off of a cul
vert near the residence of Tom
Smith, and was fortunate enough The main battle front has mov
to escape serious injury. How- ed to Verdun in France and the
ever he broke his doubletree and Germans appear to be intent on
spilled the pies his wife had pre- driving their way to Paris,
pared for the Masonic feast. The great forts supposed to be
James M. Welsh sold his farm amPle Protection to the city have
of 157 acres, near the Park Sahool een destroyed as were those
house, this week to James L supposed to be impregnable in
fn on97 90 rJeiguim, out the Germans nave
and willi irive nossession March Paid for their advance with myr
ii.. mi. ry
1st 1917 iaas 01 soiaiers. ine rrencn
... have fought every inch of the
Omer Littler and Marion Weath- flnfi rptrpatpd nnlv when
e i -VT-i i. j
mora nave gone w i there wag n0 hope of holding
seeking their fortune. We trust 0.rniln Tho ,,npa thp nnrth
the boys will be fortunate enough of France cannot be depleted of
io una u. a u fVia nii; aa clan ViA da.
I lilt li LJ CUli V VlOb wi V
Logan Prather, whose birth- mans will break thru and reach
day comes on the 29th of Febru- the coast,
ary, was surprised Dy about Sinking of a large English
forty of his friends and relatives merchant ship near Dover and a
with a birthday party. Now the French war ship in the Mediter
poor boy cannot have another anian and starting U. boats on a
birthday for four long years, general raid are next in import
March came in not so much
like a lion, but more like mid
winter. It is to be hoped that it
will pass out quietly. .
The Masons had some big do
ings around here last Saturday,
and the way they did eat is said
to be a fright. We have not
heard whether any of them have
lost any toe nails or not, but the
chances are they will if overeat
ing causes such a thing. Satur
ance to the drive lor rans.
Russia is still accelerating the
trot of the Turk. The White
Star Steamship Line has declar
ed it will carry no more passen
gers from this country on its
armed merchant ships. Wheth
er the Germans will persist in
threat to sink all merchant ships
belonging to enemy nations
which carry guns regardless of
warning or who may be pass-
entrpra is not. known hv renorta
day night J. A. Bellon, Lawrence LinceMarchl( the day 8et for
beginning such elimination of
semi-war vessels.
His father, Morris Sanderson
was one of the old timers here
.1 xl . 1- V 1 t
ana oi mat mane up wnicn Knew T,nnie Haskina who. with
r J' I a J ... T
no tear nor aisnunesiy nor uis- . nnn h .u:, : Wilio n-..
Bayne died in 1898, and March
29, 1900 Dan Bayne was married
las, sirvive.
No truer, more genial, honest
and neighborly man ever lived in
the county than Dan Bayne. De
voted to his family and friends,
jovial and hospitable, punctual to
every engagement and as sym
pathetic as a home-loving moth
trust of a friend. Enough of
this worlds goods to live com
fortably on and enough money
to pay debts was the ambition of
the father as of the son. A
sturdy family is fast disappear
ing. .
Bought Boswoiih Hotel
Mr. and Mrs. William Willett, er, it can be truly said that he
who so successfully conducted was a good citizen and in every
the Brown House at this city for way worthy of the great respect
several years and left it for a in which he was held by alL
larger neid at Kansas uty, nave The U)uner deeply sympa
purchased the only first class ho-1 thizes with his family and the
tel at Bosworth and left this community in their great loss.
week tn tftka rhnrtrA.
O 1 ! Jl 1 1 . .
Cot Willett as he is familiarly ' i " Anniversary
known here, is an all rounder Mrs. Thos. J. Veatch of our city
and a most genial and accomo- was agreeably surprised Saturday
-dating hotel proprietor, and un- when a birthday and anniversary
derstands the needs of the trav- party assembled, at her home.
eling public especially and takes The day was the 42nd anniver
pride in supplying them, and 8arv ' Mrs. Veatch's marrigae,
Mrs. Leva Willett is a cook, also her birthday, and Mrs. Wil-
bousekeeper and diplomat second 1 1'am Dougherty and Mrs. Louis
to none. She knows exactlv Gesling, together with Mrs. Al-
Jiow food should be prepared and lea and Mrs. Dunn of Salisbury,
how to entertain truests of her appeared and served notice that
house, and we commend, the the day should be properly cele-
faraily to the good people of brated.
JBosworthas an addition to its A sumptuous dinner was served
society as well as Drosrressive at which Mr. and Mrs. Charles
business element , Hayes and children were guests.
The pleasure of the Veatch 1 ami-
George Hooper was in Tnplett ly in the occasion is still felt by
Saturday an j Sunday. , each of them.
Obituary
James Clinton, son of Mr. and
Mrs. E. 0. Johnson, was born in
Garfield Co., Kansas, January 21,
1890, departed this life February
14, 1916, aged 26 years and 24
days. He was married to Miss
Birdie Graham January 25, 1910,
to their union two daughters
were born, Leona and Jessie.
His wife died Dec 1, 1913. He
spent the greater part of his life
in Chariton county. He was an
employee for the Brown Shoe
Co. both in Moberly and St
Louis until hia health began to
fail When he went to Colorado
where he only stayed for four
months. He went to Spokane,
Washington Feb. 5, 1914, where
he remained until Oct 1915 when
he came home. . .'. X :,
in ail oi his suffering be was
never heard to complain.
He leaves to mourn his death
besides his children, a father,
mother, five brothers and five
sisters.
Rev. and Mrs. Haynes were
guests of church brothers and
sisters at Rothville week be
fore last and part of last week,
and Rev. Haynes preached ser
mons in the Baptist church at
that city Sunday before last It
is possible that Rev. Haynes
will accept the call made by the
Rothville Baptist Church for his
service as pastor but at any rate,
he will preach here and be here
for two weeks longer.;
Weatherford and some more of
the boys made it hard on the
goat.
Fred Hayes, county highway Salisbury Scribblings
engineer, announced that he Miss Cora Wanger fell while
-ould spend the night in our entering the home of her sister,
burg, last Tuesday night but Mrs. Al Rick and dislocated her
failed tn Rhow un. It was suff- left wrist causing intense suf-
gested that probably he had fall- f erring and a long rest from her
en into some bad crossing that duties as music teacher.
needed a bridge, which of course John A. Bozworth this week
would not be hard to find. aold hia residence oroDertv on
i -
Jess Scott and Miss Lillian East Fourth street to Charles
Barnes left here last Wednesday Schorge for $2525. This is a
mrtrninor headed for the Canital. nice property and Mr. S. and
and it looked like they might family will occupy it as a home,
have soma business with the The Winklemeyer Bros, have
marriage license man before purchased the Bruner stock of
they returned. furniture, on East Second street,
Mrs. Porter Shoemaker is very and will continue the business at
low and her friends have de- the same stand. These men are
SDaired of her recovery. pushers and we congratulate
James L. Moxley. who ieft a parties on the deal.
here about 12 years ago, is here Ihe sott roads make it dimcuit
on business and visiting rela- for those who have to move,
tives. He left here and went but they double teams and go
to Oklahoma with only enough any way
to take him to his destination, Benj. Hayes, Jr. went to Mo
probably very little left, and by berly Tuesday on business but
his energy and thrift has acquir- we did not get particulars.
1 1M 1MA f I
Ai o-m T" ninrr iiira -ti ihhi i - . . . . .
Wuiu1u5..TUv,vv. nn the sick list this week we
Ed Veirs and Will Drew who report Lee Chitty and daughter.
have been to Oklahoma, pros- Eleanor. Mrs. Fannie Hurt Joe
pecting, returned home last Phelps, Mrs. Frank Carter, Jas.
week, much pleased with that Henderson.
CTUniry' E. M. Hickerson who went to
Don't Shoot Ducks De Witt sometime ago and was
Th rf0inn hna heen mihliRh. taken sick there, at the home of
ed that it will not be lawful to 800 ia expected home
this week having recovered irom
his illness.
decease. Uncle "Dink," as he
was called, was a gentleman of -
the old school, an hone3t man, a
good neighbor, and his passing
is regreted. Funeral services
were conducted at the home by
Rev. J. P. Rice.
Spring repairs have begun in
several parts of our city and our
carpenters wear a broad smile.
Geo. W. Woodson has sold his
interest in the second hand fur
niture store to John Barnes, and
will devote his time to carperen-tering.
Sam Closserand Miss Elizabeth
Montgomery were married Wed
nesday by Rev. Ward Baker.
We congratulate this fine couple.
The Erbland family have
moved to Denver, Colo.
Mrs. John Street returned from
an extended visit to St. Louis
Monday, where she was the
guest of her daughter.
Miss Mary Weber of Bruns
wick was over Wednesday on
business.
Tom Richardson has opened up
his new store on East Broadway
and is now a full-fledged merchant.
We now have two "movies"
and our show going people have
some place to go.
Chas. W. Lamkin was over
this week on business.
W. S. Gallemore, Sr., and
family of Eccles have moved to
town and occupy their new
home purchased from C. C.
Mason. They are well pleased
with the new situation and we
welcome them.
Visitors this week Newton
Graves of Oklahoma, Al Tuder
of Hale, Mo., Chas. W. Lamkin
and Luther Wright of Keytes
ville.
Miss Sconal Schorge, a pretty
Miss aged 8, celebrated her sec
ond birthday Tuesday. She
only celebrates once each four
years, and need not fear age.
If the ground hog will let up,
all will be forgiven. Three solid
months of winter ought to satis
fy any kind of a hog.
Floyd Drew and J. C. Case
traded farms this week, and
both are smiling and happy over
the results. We congratulate
and hope neither will ever regret
the trade.
Mrs. Mary A. E. Henderson,
whose illness we mentioned last
week, died at the home of Bert
Prescott, Saturday night Feby.
26, 1916, aged 86, and after
funeral services by Elder Hollo
way remains were laid to rest in
city cemetery. This good old
mother who has gone to her re
ward left two sons and one
daughter surviving.
shoot ducks or any wild fowl un
der the Federal game law pro
visions until next fall. The fact
that a government game warden
can get an offender any time
within three years after he has
killed a duck or several ducks,
makes matters all the worse for
any one who would tinker with
a probable fine and jail sentence.
It is apparent to nearly every
one that the increase of wild
ducks has been great since the
prohibition of shooting promis
cuously has been taboo under
the action of the government
and it is confidently: predicted
that if the law is enforced, in
less than five years we will have ceased was
to Bet up scare crows or send for : both wives
scarce crows or send lor a con
stable to prevent our entire
premises being swallowed up.
Word comes from J. F. Pratt
formerly a well known citizen
here, but now loctaed at Paul's
Valley, Okla., writes that he and
his son Carl are engaged in the
insurance business and getting
along fine. This will be good
news to his many friends in this
county.
J. 0. Anderson, aged about
ninety, died at the home of
Freeman Patterson after a few
weeks illness, the result of
fall, and his remains were laid
to rest in our city cemetery on
the 27th of Feby., 1916. De-
twice married, but
proceeded him to
the grave, lie left two sons,
one by each wue, and some
grandchildren to mourn his
Burned Bonds
The school board burned two
$500 bond3 of the districts in
debtedness last week in the
presence of the board and a cou
ple of witnesses. The school
board hugely enjoys these fires
and the public rejoice to hear of
them. Salisbury Democrat
- Scott Barnes
Jess Scott and Miss Lillian
Barnes of near Pee Dee were
united in marriage Wednesday
morning at the Methodist parson
age, Rev. Meyers performing
the ceremony.
Card of Thanks
We desire to thank our dear
friends and neighbors, who so
kindly assisted us in the sickness
and death of our beloved son and
brother, J. C. Johnson.
Mr. and Mrs. E. 0. Johnson,
5 and family.
Three respectable snows this
week, yet the weather has been
generally fine, maintaining the
14th for ground hog day. ' .
!
