C
NAD
(T 1R? ATT
1 A I P In the HOME Is wort
i .irii. 1 W W th byway, and lust rai
CELINA
H
H
THE RESERVOIR CITY THE
BIGGEST LITTLE TOWN ON
EARTH THE HUB OF THE UNI
VERSE. In the HOME la worth a doian In
lha byway, and Jut rimsmbir THK
DEMOCRAT la lha homa paper of
Mercsr County. a a
K.Lbllihed Mai t. 115.
Volume 20, Number 47
Carlin & Carlin, Publisher
Celina, Ohio, March 3, 1916
III ;roTTtTro,irTxrraxinnr.i:i:g:o.T,.:3
-i
HP'
EM
HULL
Will Have Opposition at Pri
maryjor G.O.P. Delegate
HAS REASON TO BE PLEASED
With tho tiirift ruduccd, tho govern
ment's right to Ih4ik paper money vln-
I dil ated, Wall street's grip on business
ami politics broken, private monopolies
"In process of ultlinutu extinction," an
income tax o nthu statute hook, popular
election of senators In operation, and u
promise of i'lillllpplnu InUc pendonce pass
ed by tho senate with all these reforms
I seemed within three yeuis, Air. nryaii
I has reason to he pleased with the prog
ress made dii domestic questions Coin-
IB
Chickasaw Girl Found Working
i:gS"Daytcn"Hotelj "
DORF.MUS LEAVES IN CLASSY STYLE
To State Convention No Oppottl-I
tlon to Men Selected at Dtm
ocratlc Haas Meeting.
LOOKING BACKWARD
BROTHERHOOD SUPPER
Under head o( "looking buekwurd," the
St. .Marys Argus In prlntng news happen-
The closinir time for filing nominating '"8 of 34 yearn uo. One rcuda:
I Ul,. II 1........... nlwl I,,., l.'l.w.l, nt
i. .,.,., un uviibh. o..u u,.,Ui. ... celina, were In town Thursday ev
the HtutH convention!! to no noon the enlng. enjoying uie dunce.
a. .o i i ii ii .i. , ... i, i ivi I S'K v"t" runnltitf a clothing store then
" " " ' I In a room where tile Citizens hunk now
day night brought forth no new cuntll- Utamli. anil merchant Will Hrets wits his
dates on the Democratic Hide over thorn: handy man. Joe Kloeii with his lirother,
, , .i i .ui 'he late ex-allilltiir Charles Klncb were
selected by the mass convention In this ,lmriuiactiircrs of cigars. Some changes
eliv ..n vv,.l,l,iul,n'u Itirthduv. since in me old town.
On the Republican Hide an opposition
Kiiiiiim no in the drat district. Attorney
...... . . I l ne 1 1 roi lien loon Ol too t.oiuwiiier .u
H. K. Jackson, of Hockforu ,unu irwur- 1; church will give a supper In the vill-
iiiri.iu ,r f.. I age hall. Saturday evening, March ttli.
' I 'i'he price ol' tin .supper will be 10c per
both filing petitions us delegates, ihe I plate. Everybody la urged to attend.
fourth dlatrlct brought forth no candi
date for delegate while the only Repub
lican candidate for alternate to ill" a pe
tition wan Anthony Metering, of Chicka
saw, In the llfth district.
The Democrats did not divide the coun
ty Into districts other thun for the se
lection of candidates and the Democrats
will therefore to upon the ballot as can
didates at large from the county.
Mercer County lias the following can-
DELEGATES
Hepublicans First district, K. K. Jack
son and C. W. Hallhlll: second. D. b
illack; third, Win. Spieler; fourth, none;
lllth, J. H. ilartins.
Democrats Kmory lxiudenbeck, D. O
Kliuiei-. T. Williams. D. it. Smalley.
J'red Ciottemoeller, Kminett ManuU, and
(J .11. Jenkins.
ALTERNATES
Democrats J. K. Snyder. O. W. Kink
ley. James U. StaeKer. H. J. Stelzer, ir
vln lloel. H. C. MeinerdiiiK. Otto Som-
mers. The only Republican alternate la
Anthony .Metering. Horn district live
It costs real money to run for oltlce In
this State this year. In addition to the
cost of the campaign, cand:dates for coun
ty olllce must pay into the county treas
ury a fee of one-half of one per cent, for
Under Assumed Name -In Charge
of Officials Until Parent
Is Heard From.
COURT MATTERS
Judgment for $1730 Against lie-
Ford Estate Sought by
Mrs. Maud Spees.
.Maud Spees, throimh her attorney, F.
W. Uiree, last Saturday II led a suit
against J. M. and T. U. DcKord, us exe
cuter of the estate of John W. Del-'ord,
deceased, prayinK for Judgment in the
sum of $17:;il, with interest, which amount
plaintiff claims is due her for caring for
deceased, during his illness and In enter
tainlng friends und relutives of Mr. De- I
Kord, after his death.
An aitlelu In the IHiytoii Journal of
March 2 brings to light Ihe strange dlsa
peiirani e of Clara I leii hoizor, w hose
mother resides at Chickasaw. It will !e
recalled that the young girl camo up mis
sing about the time of her brother's death
willed occurred at the mother's dome In
Chickasaw on February 2. Since that
time the police of the Gem City have
been working on the case. Following
is the clipping from tho Dayton paper:
Hecuuse she said she was afraid her
parents would punish her. Clara llelr
hol.er has been working at the Algoimuin
hotel since her dlsapperance, January 24,
according to her story told to Inspec
tor Hughes at the i'olice I leadpuai let s
yesterday. The girl had been employed
by a family lis a domestic until she dis
appeared. Since men me police anu me
parents of the girl, who reside at Chick
asaw, ()., nae scan-lieu constantly ior
fearing Hint she met with foul play
During her time of employment at th
Algonquin, she said she went under tin
names of Clio Ulster and Kuth llisli
Yesterday the police located her at th
doted and she was taken to headquarter
Although the girl's brother died duiin
In r absence and the fact was given pub
she failed to make her present'
known. She told Inspector Hughes thut
l ulled States Marshal Hugh Hartley,
with eight federal prisoners and their
guards, will travel to Leavenworth, Kus.
In a private car. The trip probably will
be made Tuesday. The prisoners are:
I'iiiv Holilon. Horeimia Wells, I 'till Gen
tile, IMilie Itr.Mint, (Veil llosack, Charles
Atkinson, Jo. a pit Hyland anil Koliert
M;n ill. all convicted ol dope v olutions.
-Toloilo lllaiie.
BILL
There were four contestants in the so
lo content at the Neptune Grange last
Friday evening. The prices were music
offered by Ueo. Weber, the Jeweler, of
this city. .The first prisse was $1.00 value
and tile second $1.00 value. The tlrst
prize fell to Miss Neoina Hale and the
second the McClellun Flowers.
Their will lie a duet contest at the
Introduced; Congress to Con
struct War Highway
WHY NOT TRY WORK T
The Army and Navy experts Insist
that the people should spend part of each
year in military training; wdy not reverse
the rule and have the Army and Navy ex
perts spend part of each year working?
AIkiuI two month a ear of good hard
work mi the lurm would cure llicin of
their extniVBKciit ileas and give linn
mine svumat hv with the masses. Wm
Jennings Iiryan.
MEN ONLY MEETING
DITCii
TIim T4rot!it',-hfMMl of tha ColilwHter t.
lias Merit Ot frOVldlna UOOd K. Cliunh will conduct a men only meet
lug in ineir cniiicn. luesuay evening,
Roads at Least, and Beats Any-J
thing Proposed to Date.
March 7lh. Oral J. Myers, ot Celina, wi
be the speaker. A cordial Invitation I
extended to all men of the community.
A Hill to uciiulre, construct, and maln-
Giiing meeting to-night (Hie Urd) with tain a national defense highway; to pro-
iwo prizes uim, is. ihi worm oi mercnaii- , , . ,
disc, and second Jl.(M) worth, ottered by vide eiuplo mcnt for citizens of the Uil
'"'.-Lii ,.VV i. . n rn.Jfd 1 t Physically and mentally
Neptune Grange on Friday even'ng, Mar. I educate them for defense.
1 1I l,i whieh Hit, ttohllc is eoriiiiillv Invlt- I
ed. An oratorical contest, with a pro- He it dieted by the Senate and House
Kiam of music and songs will be given. , .,.,,.,.. ,. ,i. r..lt...l smies
J in. iirutiii li-ii I tiiltliti-tl llfU'a-l.'MI iM nlioM 1 '
THE GRIM REAPER
J. W. SHEWARD, AGED S3
The lifeless body of J. W. Sheword,
aged CJ years, Fast IJvlngston street
only to members of the Grange. ' We will Lf America in Congress assembled, That wa8 found Wednesday morning in the
print Ihe program In next Friday's issue,
WASH
Institute Again Cut Short
Scarlet Fever Scare
by
the President be, and he is hereby auth
or! ied to acquire establish, construct,
Improve, and maintain lor the defense of
the United States, a national defense
highway.
Sec. 2. That the national defense high
way shall commence ut Im Angeles, Cull
yard of one of the Crorr properties, at
the corner of Cherry and Fulton streets
after his daughter and friends had search
ed all night for him. Death was undoubt
edly due to heart failure
Mr. Sheward drove a Raleigh medicine
wagon and kept his horses In the barn on
I ii.. i.., i , r'..,,.
lornia, und go eastward by a practical ",u -,u" v' ' l'
mill residence, where he and his duugn
route through tho States of California,
Aiizoniu, Neva Alexico, Texas, Iiulsana,
Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida, thence
northward through Ueorgia, South Caro-
I .1. U...1 !,.. .l r l..,..r tn l,u
The claimant asks Ilf.SO for caring for ,",u ""' '
moiner, uiil uhi iioi nuve in
the deceased for SI weeks, and $.ri( for en
tertaining relatives and friends.
Sarah A. Watts, tlnoug her attorney,
J. W. Jxree, last Monday held a petition
against 'A. M. Watts, praying for Judg-
the annual salary of the office to which n1t.nt jn ti,e sum f)f if,-;o, with interest.
he aspires. The fee is to be paid at the I'ialntil'f says that in August 1911, she
time he llles his declaration of cand'dacy. conveyed to the defendnt Ihe following
Of course the more candidates the more described real estate: The east half of
will the county benefit, und this sum will the southeast quarter of .Section 23, Cn-
help defray the cost of the primary.
nerve
mail them. She was sent to the central
police station and placed In charge of
the matron until the arrival of her par
ents from Chickasaw.
SHOOTING SCRAPE AND
ARREST OVER LAND DEAL
While candidates are numerous in .tier
ion township:
As part consideration for such convey
ance tlie (lelcndiint agreed to lurmsli
Charles Mallowy of Rockford is unde
cer county the coat will still be much plaintill' with all the necessaries of life the doctor's care witli a dislocated shou
greater than the fees paid in
Congressional candidates must also pay
the fee, which amounts to $35, not near
ly so high in proportion as some of the
county olllces. The county coroner is not
a salaried official .therefore he will not
have to pay a fee. The salaries ol Mer
af every kind during her natural lilt
The defendant has failed and neglected
to furnish plaintiff with anything since
iid was made, a period ol lour years
and six momlis.
F. Henry FoHt, through his attorney,
I'. K. Kenney, last Friday illed a suit
cer county oltlciais und their assessment "gainst John Spangler ft al., praying for
are as as follows:
Office
der and a cruched chest and charged with
shooting witli intent to kill as a result
of a quarrel which occurred In the ofllee
of A. J. How k of Rockford eduesda,
afternoon.
Mallow waived examination and wa
bound over to court In the sum of S100U
When .Sherlll Humphrey went after the
man he lound mm under me care oi
an order quieting title to the following doctor and in no condition to be moved
Auditor
Treasurer
Probate Judge
Recorder
Clerk of Courts. . . .
Sheriff
Commissioner
Prosecuting Attorney.
Surveyor
The paying of the fees will likely dis
courage many of the Republicans and a
few democratic candidates irom enter
ing the race.
Salary flung I described real estate: The northwest
ami. I iiuitrter of the northeast onarter of Sec- I ulifwilim' unil it In verv likelv Ihe trutl
Hon 31, Liberty township, containing 40 will not be known until the case is up
J11U llCrfM Of l.-inil f.n I ri.i I
7.50
ney, P. K. Kenney, on Wednesday, tiled ith A. J. llowk, his two sons and a son
a suit in divorce niraiii.et his wile Mallei in law, Will. Heery, in the former S of-
..$2280
... 22S0
.. 2280
.. 1500
. ..19!)5
... 1636
.. 1107
.. 1500
. .. 2352
9.8
8.18
5.54
7.5(1
11.76
Various stories are afloat as to the
The most relahlo information Is to the
(Wm w i ,,,, ihmmiii Ma niinp. e cot mat -Mallow anil ma son i.uy, niei
Logan, charging her with wilful absence.
The coimle were married In this city on
May 2X, liiio. No children were Porn or
said marriage.
ice, for the purpose of closoing a land
deal. A dispute arose between Mallow
ind Hawk, and til clatter requested one
ol his boys to lock the door and not
have Mallow out until he had adjusted
the matter. Mallow became enraged and
drawing a revolver, fired a few shots
supposedly ut Heery. who was guard
ing tlie door. The olllce ot JtawK Is very
mall ana despite me tact mat iwauow
was no more than six or eight feet from
his target, no lul ots struck the mark.
Boosters, Of Evangelical Church, Hawk and his sons Jumped onto Mal
low anu uooreti mm resulting in tne in-
BETHANY
Reorganized Day's Inter
esting Program.
At the services at the Fvangellcal
Juries above stated.
Presidential Preference Primary time
is drawing near. April 25 is the date set
to choose the delegates and alternates to
the national conventions. The only ex
citement in the Fourth district will be on
the republican side of the ticket, the last
.minutes of filing time bringing: In some
petitions, that also brought competition.
W. W. Woods, of Plqua; Charles Herbst,
and Kdward Montr, of Greenville, are the
three candidates for delegates. It Is 'tip- church, last Sunday morning, the pastor,
ped that Mong is a dark noise, and mat i.-.i, u, , i, -Th, ui
tin avioir u in t li ,..i i irl, I, lit IharA u IllunlU , v . . i "i n ..mm.., ouui.'. a . . .
of support from the g. o. p. organizations lle of ,ml)its ln tl,e religious life and at Progressing Rapidly Sends Out
ior uie omer men. siting win nave toe
support of the antls to a man. Kditor B. night he took for his theme: 'Tne Su
H. Gilberg of the Observer is a candidate preme tu(!t of falUl . basing his remarks
for alternate. The democratic delegates
to the St. Douis convention wn. be 13. R. on the Bto' v of Abraham offering his son
Curtin, Lima; H. A. Amos, Sidney, with Isaac.
Va'"01: Jennings, West Milton, and Alva The Sumiay school session with Super
CELINA CHORUS
Call for New Members to Com-
With Chorus of Rival City
K. Bikley, Darke county, as alternates.
They will go through without opposition.
PORK SHOOT NEAR WABASH
Messrs. Fennig, Powell and LInlnger
will hold a pork shoot on the Phillip Fen
nig farm, one mile and a half south of
Wabash next Thursday, March 9, com
intendent Ed Hellwarth. in charge was in
teresting and helpful. The class known
as The Bethany Boosters reorganized on
Sunday with the following results:
Teacher Josepli Hat Held.
President Howard Dohrentz.
Vice-president Roy Groves.
Secretary 1 .eon Roet tger.
Treasurer Omer Hinton.
Various methods were discussed to in-
A very enthusiastic meeting was that
of the newly organized chorus held last
Monday night. The Chorus now numbers
30 members und to make it a decided sue
cess they are endeavoring to Increase tne
organization to at feast 50 members.
St. Marys singers are also working up
a line chorus In their city and the latter
mencing at one o'clock prompt. Four crease interest in the work of the class part of this month the Celina and St.
fine porkers will be shot for. AH sports
men are invited and welcome to partcl-
pate.
GLENDORA TAKES ANOTHER TRY
and it was decided to meet once a month
tor business and social purposes.
Perry Bowser conducted the Young
Peoples' Alliance service at ti:I5. The here. All singers are urged to get into
leader gave an interesting talrv on the .i,u .,,.,. ot ,nc r,,i An l.,ut iitHo
evils of intemperance. Alice Fust presid- moIH Ul!tn s-t Mlirvs Ciin n()W Those
ed at the piano. Papers were rend by the .ii,i., t ..n ,i v.,,i,i ,, ih. t,i,,w
John Bader and Mrs. Glendora Kelley following: James Morris, Roxie Wrigley, r ,i i n,i n ,. v.i
were secretly married at Covington, Ky., V. V , '"" , ,Y" j' "d,, ,J"K'C to be present next Monday night at th
ix .Tunu.rv is TVio nmrrlnm rild not 7 , .. .'', . ", '.. .V " IT' "r." ' regular meeting oi me cnorus hi in
v......w . ..DV i ijeiia. liimens, tuin oinnu, iit.m iroeiv,
become public until they started to house- Hazel Pumplirey, Leon Roettger. The
icaaer ior next Munuay evenin" is juisa
Treva Black.
Marys chorus will join In a recital ln the
latter city, later giving the same recital
regular meeting of the chorus at tne
High School Auditorium, 7:30 o clock.
keeping on Hoyng street, this week.
SESSON
FRANK FISHER BUYS
BIERSDORFER MEAT SHOP
SOCIAL GOSSIP
Of Rockford Extension School
Not Largely Attended
Mrs. Arthur Behringer and Miss Etha
Dcitsch very pleasantly entertained at the
former's home. East Fulton street, last
Friday evening, ln honor of the hitter's
aster, Miss Laura Deitsch, whose marri
age to Henry Ooslee. of Wanakoneta.
1., r i ,l mu liq en ccli ijr anu i;n cviiii. vi a. niii,i
ed the l rank Beiersdorfer meat market, ot progre8ve liearts favors fell to Miss
Frank Fischer, tho well known South
Main street butcher, last Friday purchas-
flraranlzatlon Goes On Record A charge of his new business. The Beiers
urganuauon uuc, un mecora as dol.fur Hhop ,s mted with the lnost up.to
f avoring experiment- r arm
Mayme Vordenfelde and Mrs. Bert Beam
n a lloral contest the honors went to
last Saturday night und on Monday took bln Mitis jjeitaeh wus showered with
next door to the Manhattan restaurant.
He closed his butcher shop at the curve
many useful and very pretty gfts.
and Centralized Schools.
date refrigerator and air cooling system
on the market und Is centrally located.
Mr. Fischer enjoys the distinction of be
ing one of the best butchers In the city.
A class of sixteen candidates was Ini
tiated by the local lodge Ladles' Auxil
iary, Knights ot si. John, last Monday
evening. The degree work was lollowed
The annual sessioln of the Rockford ex-
Main street shop, and the new move will
I nn rtollr nwiun ti l.i.r eihwiiu. tn 1. ni in
tension school closed Tuesday night with business1 way.
He has enjoyed a bin trade at his boutti bv a two coul.st) lunch. The candidates
who took the work were; Marie Hemmert,
Blanch Meyer, Alma Bruns, Olive Cron,
a one-sided debate on the single-tax
Frank Wenning, who for many years
Margaret Cron, Elizabeth Hagerman,
Monica Hettinger, Echo Behringer, Mary
McKlrnan, Matilda Kudholf, Helen EI
question by R. C. Skinner of Meigs county past has been employed as a trimmer in Wl)0d, Be'rnadina, Wenning.' ftlrs. Peter
, , . . , the upholstering department of the Cron iievne Alvina Heln Bertha Mevers and
tinit tho Rnriiihllcnn woman lobbvst of III,,,..,., vui, .V. . . t.-i.ii.... m. 'leyue, viviini. iieni, rei ma ivit-yeis uuu
- - i i, u won i to i-inuinj' i t.:ora cnapman
Columbus, sent out by the Columbus tlon wlth the Grant Automobile company,
Chamber of Commerce to combat the
theories of the followers of Henry
George. A crowded house turned out to
hear the famous single-tax orator Herbert
Bigelow, but were greatly disappointed.
Mr. Skinner sent there to take his pluce
fuiled to make a hit with his hearers.
The session proper came to a close on
BRUNO LEAVES FOR
TRAINING QUARTERS
Albeit "Bruno" Betzel left over the
Miss Mary Inngel pleasantly entertain
ed last Sunday at the home of her par
ents:, Dr. and Mrs. R. P. langel, in hon
or of her birthday anniversary. The
guest or nonor was Miss Lenore Hattery,
whose birthday ulso fell on Sunday, and
whose wedding will be an event of early
March.
The Ladies Aid Society In conjunction
with Willing Workers Class of the Evan
gelical Church agreeably surprised Mrs.
Tuesday afternoon with the passing of L B- & w yesterday evening for St. John Wagner, South Ash street, lust Sa-
-.,itm lnna .ha mnct 4 i,. . t film
of which was a favorable resolve for a Lollls' Mo" hmlle Miller niversary
County Experiment Farm; the election of Huggln's Cardinals on Jhelr way to their
olflcers 'or the ensuing year and selection soulhern training quarters at SanAntonio
wl Vu" . ... I rn Li...,..,ll,lnn I 1. 9 . , . ,
The sessions were very poorly attended ''""'""'"s gouq ior net
turduy evening, It being her birthday an
nul evening was spent In a
(Continued on Eighth Page)
If you want to buy any of Kelley Brol
book accounts und notes watch tliDailv
but much Interest was manifested by ml to fill Huggina shoes at second this Standard next week, lliey will he sold
those uresent and the sneakers G. C.
Housekeeper, Mrs. Luulla Barr McKee
and Emund Secrest were well received.
The Rockford High School Orchestra fur
nished music for the two evening ses
sions. The meeting was presided over by
president Call Smith, who appointed the
following nominating committee W. B.
(Continued from First Page)
year. Here shoplng and that his field
and stick work will out class the present
"Rabbit" second baseman and manager.
To remove soreness use Hanford's Bal-
applled thoroughly.
. Use applications of llanford'a Balaam Of
Myrrh (or sprains.
to the highest bidder.
SEED OATS AND CLOVER SEED FOR
SALE
1914 Colver Seed. Good seed oats. In
quire Albert Palmer, Route 6. Phone (
on K, 2 miles southwest of Celina.
It advertises itself Stanford's Balsam.
Meeting, However, An Excellent n,M- Virginia. District of Columbia. Mary-
One, Many Good Features
Characterizing Program
land, Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jer
sey, und New York; thence northward
through the State of New York, Massa-
ter mude their home, shortly before sup
per Tuesduy evnlng going to the barn to
feed his horses. He did not return for
supper, but his daughter thinking It nolh
lug unusuul, did not become alarmed.
When Dr. Gemnilll returned late Tuesday
night from a trip in the country Mr.
Sheward had not yet returned. He went
The seventh iinnual meeting of the
W.tba.-h Fanners' Institute came to
do e yesterday ufternoon, last night s
session being called off on account of con
ditions existing In the communty.
Owing to a couple of deaths in I. e
neighborhood and a little scare over a
new case of scarlet fever, which develop.
ed Wednesday ln the home of Dr. Flsh
baugh, the attendance at all sessions was
small, but the speakers were well receiv
ed and their talks enjoyed, with a possible
exception of .Mr. Skinner,' Herbert Bige
low 's substitute, who did not measure up
to tlie expectations of his audience.
The serum treatment lecture of
Veterinary R. W. Schlenker, of this city,
on Tuesday evening proved one of the
chusetts. New Hampshire and Maine, to to th(J burn ln a,.ttrt.h of him but could
Portland Alain. Commencing again at
New York, New York; thence westward
through tho States of New York, Penn
sylvania, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois, to
Chicugo, Illinois; thence northwestward
through Wisconsin and Minnesota, to St.
Paul and Minneapolis, -Minnesota; thence
westwrd through South Dukolu, N. Dako
ta, Montana, Idaho and Wushlugton, to
Seattle, Wellington; thence southward
through Wshlngton, Oregon, and Califor
nia, via San Francisco and Los Angeles
to San Diego. California.
find no trace. Wednesday morning Just
at daylight they found him lying near
the pump, where he hud gone the even-
ng before to get water for his horses.
The bucket half filled with water und
frozen over stood where he must have
dropped It, when he sustained tlie fatal
seizure.
Deceased wus born ln Jackson County.
this state. 63 yeurs ago and came to Mer
cer county with his parents wnen a ooy.
He had been a resident of Celina for the
ast six years und had driven Hie liuleigh
.Medical wagon for tlie past live years. He
is survived by two daughters, Mrs. W.
H. Eckenrod, of Muskogee, Oklununia, ana
lust attractions of the institute. Besides
.l... ........ ........ ii a i'..uunPH ri
i ne rial', e,-oin . j .1. u, v.. i iiic uiiutu viiiiy eiiKUieeiS, HHUI . ... ,. , ...,...
lmia,.kw.iu.r i.iul M MM Inez I'olner e- ii,.,-,ir,nn tr. tin,!. ill,,. I ,. ... j .. u llm CIllll ge. loe remains will lie 11 ne itin'-ii
cellenl talks were made ny local men, 111-
ehnling Dan Leininger, ura Rile, Jos
eph Turckes, John Stllloarger, and Prof,
Sec. 3. That rluhts of wuv for the na
tional defense highway shall be acquired Mary A. Sheward ol this city. His wile
, , .7. , , preceeded him in death some thirty years
u,i wmmiuiia a,0- ne is ai.so survived by mree sisters,
lsi'actorv to the President. Mrs. C. E. Terrv. Van Wert. A.rs. E. E.
Sec. 4. That construction, improvement. lun' Scott. Mrs. V . H. Bnstian, west oi
' 1 I'u imu un.i lU'u irrimiif iiii.i, -en
and maintenance of the national defense n,if s. rviees will lie held at the Gem
highway ihall be under the direction of I mil home Saturday morning with Rev,
the United States Army engineers, und Hartniun. of the Evangelical church In
according to such specifications as the I -"' . , ' i . ' ' .
i.-..i.i....V . 1 1.... 1..1.... to Washington chapel where services will
i 11...1U1.11L ,i,n.j ui.riii I'cni l", UUIIIIIIUUIICCI, I. . , . , -11 I,., .- . ,, ...III tt
11 1, il rue le kii.I i ,,r t (1 ,, tie nciu t "nc u i luvn. iinviiuvin ... v.
Sec. 5. That the use of the national de- mude !lt state Un cemetery,
l-Mwiii G. Knenner. superintendent of the fense hiirhwav shall lie under rules estah-
Washington township schools. lished by tlie I'resident. REBECCA JANE TRISSEL, AGED 79
flernoon the Wabash school children, ically or otherwise, in the maintenance of Mrs Rebecca Jane Irlssel. aged 7J
under the direction oi their teacher, Mr. said national defense highwuv shall be pears, uiec, suuueiuy last aium,i a -i.-
u..i.i ii. Uii.iiud in .. i.KnwiA iiA. 1 1 - , c . t nuoti at the home of her son. David, ln
Interesting dialogue, tlie membra of the physically and mentally fitted for mili- Liberty township, following a stroke of
ast doing themselves prouu, especially tary duty, who shall during said employ- .'" T , , - , ,71
hi Inh Mevers. as the nigger Steve, and incut be drilled and instructed for two She is survived by Ave children. Ihe
Kail Suriggs. as the doctor's son. The hours daily, except Sundays and national remains were taken to. rarmersvil e. ov-
childi-eii takinu Dart were: Ralph Mevers. holidays, bv United Stales Armv mHi ' the Cincinnati Northern, last -Monday
kii .siiriL'irs. -lonn i.eir n Lri-r. i-.d .niitn. I in Hccoroant-e wnn i mien s nia a rmu ...,,, t....w ,u...b. .v.
Harold Strabley, ixiuella Day and Vivian regulations. held and interment made.
I It,.,,, ..,f I 7 TtlMl In n,itr in unnnl.a ..l.h. I
The Institute sessions were presided I lish, construct, improve and maintain the JOHN STEDCKE, AGED 66
over liy Ice president James t: hpriggs, national detense highway, there be, and John Stcdcke 66 Years old died at the
who appinted the : following nominating hereby is created a fund, known as the home of his son, Edward, 620 Prospect
and Henry Fennig. The oltlcers chosen .Sec. 8. That for the purpose of pro- ' f .. ' miieation of diseases. He was
vid ng money lor the national defense born in Germany and is survived by four
,fcj iu iu, ,o . ,, u SIIJ Albert, Edward, Nelson, of Lima
urv is hereby authorized and d reeled to , ,-:,n .... i
Chas. Fennig; secretary, F. Af. Yaney; Issue and sell, on and alter July first. f"r, to lliiii'n Kann K.n" Tilv'
treasurer. H. E. Walters; executive com- nineteen hundred and sixteen, at par with .Mrs' 1 ytlia Fetters Merce'r county- -Mrs'
(Continued on Fifth Page ) accrued Interest, coupon or registered Kdna Howe, St. Marys; Mrs. Ollie VVest-
ttontinuea onririnrage.; boni!i of the tnited States m such form Kav. ..,. ' lvs Aita Hull. Texas: one
, ,'.,' ,:,,u . "'""'""""" brother. Fred, Celina; 2 a grandchliaren
tions of J.'O or multiples of that sum, und tour K,.vat tn-andchlldren. No funer-
saiu ponns to ne payable In coin fifty , arrangements have yet been made.
j; :;uT,"ivr.' ; -""a "iy ews
the rate of three per centum per annum
the total amount of said bonds not to
exceed J61O0.OU0.0U0. and the issue and Frank SanD. aged 83 years, well known
sale of same not to exceed such amounts resident of Blackcreek township, died
as may he necessary from time to time to last rriday evening, as the result ot a
enable tne 'measurer ot the United stroke ot paralysis, received a weeK pre
dates to make payments from the na- vious. He survived bv his wile und sev-
.ionul defense highway fund to meet tlie eral children. Funeral services were held
obligations incurred in accordance with at his late home last Monday afternoon
the provisloins of this Act. Bonds issued
under authority of this Act, or the in- MRS. SARAH HEDRICK, AGED 78
come therefrom, shall nof lirt HitltW.! In
taxation of imv kind far unv nnrnne Mrs. Sarah Hedrick, wife of George
Bonds authorized by this section shall at Hedrick, passed away at her home (
an w , aX an nil nwu I lirit K, r.ff.,-f.A n.-. .. j 1 !., HUU lUin SUCtJl. ill 1 .till UUfUHJU W IJUIIC
r or w.s.senaioraeen vnen sney morning, after a two week's illness
Matters Occupy Considered
Time of Commissioners
Petition for Mala Market So J 3,
Beginning at West Corpora
tion Line, Filed Friday.
Th Commissioners of Mercer und Aug
laize Counties met In Joint Mission but
week on tho hcaiinu" of the engineers re
port and appoiionmetit on the Blase joint
county ditch, between the two counties
The engineer not having his report ready
the further hearing was adjourned until
March 16.
Meeting on the matter of the Boroft
ditch the Board finding thut no appeal
had been taken to tlie action granting the
improvement ordered the work sold al I
a. in., March J. The work will be sold at
public outcry at the Commissioners office.
The Commlssolners went to Adams
County, Ind., last Friday where they met
the Drainage Connnisslolners of that
county and after forming themselves In
to a Joint board to consider the petition
of Joseph Hooks et al for a Joint Inter
state county ditch, gtartng ln and extend
ing through Adams county and Into Mer
cer county, selected Henry Behrens of
the lo ul lioard as president and Charles
-Morrison, ol the Adams County Drain
use Commission, as clerk. The Joint
board ordered thut tlie proposed ditch be
con.trucled of tile and that same be lo
cated und established upon the route
prayed for in the petition. The local
board, with members Behrens, Brunse-
wick and Evcrs present. County Auditor
Stuitibrunner and Sheriff Pumphrey met
al tlie head of tlie improvement last Fri
day as provided by law on Joint state
matters and selected Noah llinton, the
local county surveyor as engineer in
charge of the mutter for Mercer County.
The Hoard meeting last baturduy on
he hearing and report of the engineer on
lie 1'ieiigcr ditch, petitioned for by Henry
Preng:r, alter examining the report
mind same in all respects fair and Just
with the exception of the assessment of
'red Rutschlliug. which was changed
roin lo t!m. The assessments were
then confirmed.
the nominating committee, as follows,
were unanimously elected:
President, J .1. Wright, vice president
ANSWER
Of Whisky Trust to Candidacy i
of Indiana Man
FRANK SAPP, AGED 83
Meet and Raise 9150,000
for Campaign Fund.
Arthur Robinson, of Indlunapolls who
s one of the candidates for the United
States senatorshlp from Indiana, is a
Secretary of the Treasury, as will give " U1- was " , ,,n ,w "i1 1 13
opportunity to the citizens of the United known us the Heiijamine Clark farm.
States to participate in the subscription southwest of town, I- ebruary 21, 18.18, and
lor the lowest amounts shall be first al- Sl,the time oI hgr death was 78 years and
lote(i, 2 days of age. She was the eldest daugh
ter oi nir. anu itiis. neiijiiiimi v. lai iv. fu
neral services will be held at the Church
At a meeting of Uie Board last Friday
a petition was presented to them for th
mprovement of Main Market County
highway west of Celina. The lmprove-
lent is over and along the following
route: Commencing for the same on the
ne of said Main Market road No. 2, at
the west corporation line of Celina;
thence west through sections 1, 2, 3, 4,
and ti Jefferson township, terminating
t the west line of said township, in all
distance of B'.i miles. After viewing
the route of the proposed improvement
lie Board decided that said improvement
ouicl be lor the best Interest of tne puD
c. They thereupon granted the improve
ment und made application to the State
ighway Couimissioin to undertake the
(instruction of said improvement.
The following bills were allowed last
'riday and are now payable:
acob Boroff, assisting engineer.
arren Anderson, same
. B. Miller, same
nry Behrens, ditch fees
A. I;i unsewick, same
Bernard Evers, same
liayton Blank Book Co.. supplies .. 20 00
Hem) -Mueller, typewriter cabinet. 13 00
Burroughs Adding Macnine Co., rib
bon 75
Trustees Tuberculosis Hospital, the
County's portion of Appropria
tion 983 31
John Kramer, attorney for Frank
Meyers 35 00
S. S. Scranton, Mayor's cost bills.. 18 15
SI 00
1 00
1 00
34 00
23 00
34 00
The Bill, lf adopted, will provide the o1- Christ on Broadwav. Friday afternoon
following: . at 1 o'clock, conducted by the Elder Jack-
4 Mutinnoi Hidinov ir,.u .i, tti son. Ft. Recovery Tribune-Journal.
fearless assailant of the liquor traffic. He u-- .i,v,i i, i 1 j ,
ted States within Its borders and running URSUL SHAFFER, AGED 16
hits pledged himself to vote for nation- strategically near the Atlantic, Pacific ,T . . ... ,
w ide prohibition, if elected, and believes and Gulf Coasts, as well as our Northern I m ,-8 Jennie Peters, living on West Logan
Mini sniltni,i-n Hfiitml'irv llni.u . '- ........
that the liquor question is the paramount A National HTghwaV. to be used in f. ML? St'IT
He had been an inmate ol me in
sstie In American politics nt the time. ' " " )H "1 ,u"f.'
n an address ut Muncle a few days ago and healthful purposes.
s-ild Hinonii other things- ,aonai mgnway, extraordinarily
S.llQ among omer tilings. nsefll when war Ihresitenu , Ixo 0,0 ot.
"Some weeks ago I declared publicly tacked. Over it men in greatest numbers
ihnt I wnnld vote and fltrht for the ex- and munitions and supplies can be trans-
termination of the damnable liquor traf- ? West. ' '
lie, if you send me to the United States a National Highway. 10.000 miles lonir.
senate. Immediately I had the answer that win give work at good wages for
f,.,. tho ,i,iui,v ti'iint Tho Honor doai- "'""V years at at least 100,000 American
v...- ., I lll'ens in coon times unii tn govnra
rs of Indiana met in inuianapons oemna times mat number ln "hard t ines". Tin
losed doors and voted $150,000 as a cam- employment of new men perldocally, will
i.m c.nH tn h.. nid in Tnillimn 15Y,r aau greatly to our trained reserves,
algn fund to be used in Indiana. 1'or . N.,tj,lnal Hiirhuav providing nhiui
whom is this enormous sum to be used? cal and mental drill for all manual and
Whom will it udvance? How will It be clerical employees thus fitting hundreds
., wi,-, voteu win it imir? who 111 mousunus oi young men ior National
pent? W hose votes will it buy? Who (ift.naeunfJ to be better heads of 1am-
lii Handle tne money : rrom wnence lhes.
omes this gold? This contribution Is
vied on wives, mothers, sisters and
aughters who shiver with cold; who
remble wilh fear ut the approaching
footsteps ol' a drunken husband, son,
brother or father.
"This blood-dripping gold Is measured
. I. . ft. in tn-rin h.lapt thi-nlna
lasted hones, miserable homes, blighted
areers, broken hearts ana untimely
eat hs.
"But what about tho economic side?
TOWS' GIVEN SURPRISE
ON LEAVING FOR SOUTH
Ing.
stitution for the past five years. Besides
the mother, a sister and stepfather sur
vive. The remains were brought to this
city for burial which took place Wednesday.
Dr. J. T. Dlckes, a well known member
of the Medical fraternity of x-ortland
Intl., and a brother of Mrs. John Kurch,
living west of this city, ut the stone
crusher plant, died at his home in Port
land last Monday. He was born in this
county, January vj, ix:s. f uneral ser
vices were held yesterday morning.
DAN CUPID VICTIMS
A marriage license was Issued Wed
nesday afternoon to Andrew E. Flckert,
of Celina. Ohio, and Miss Cleo M. Houser.
The bridegroom is a farmer residing in
Mercer county while the bride is a resi
dent of Wabash township. They will
make their home on a farm in Mercer
county. Portland Commercial Review, ol
February 24.
Hay Harshman, of AVUlshire and Miss
Caroline Kern, of Rockford, were quietly
married by 'Squire Rice, at his office ln
tlie Odd Fellows Temple, Wednesday
morning. The groom Is a young farmer
of Van Wert county, and they will live
on a farm near Willshlre.
Quite a number of neighbors pleasantly
surprised Mr. und Mrs. Howard Tullls,
last
as oc
for
where
y
. . ...... rtAA i . - I.,,,, . I Jt tne Lime ui niiiviu ui me mei i y um -
he sum of loM OOO 000 (almost a billion) t Mr. Tu,li(J watl town atu.ndfn t0
: annually spent in this country for in- i,m ,i f,.i,i i,j
n. e ""'. at their home on west Logan street
Tlie liquor ilea ..rs say they pay into the suturnay evening. The surprise wa,
treasury JnO.oilO.oot) every year. So they ca.sloined by the" leave of the Tuliis
do, but at whut teurfu costs to the peo- Soutn (-arolina this cominir week.
n e in dollars und cents, to say nothing ,i ,n i, i..,: ii,ri.
uivi win uiuac iiiii iuiuic iiuuie.
f the intolerable evils by the wayside?
s annually spent in t Is rountry for in- some business, and his friends had tne
oxicants J pleasure of springing the second surprise
bread, W0OO 000 I or meat, and for edit- of tne evenln(f when he returned, a mes-
cation only $85,000,00. Think of it! We -.,.,, art hv hri wifo ntuiimr aho wna
thanlforb,,rmeaTanducatio immensely enjoy-
-Mr. and Airs. Tullls are Intending going
"Rut thlc tu n.it nil Wvorv von, linnnv I .
ii i ! i7i , . ,iti,. i ii V i . itil" tne notei business ln South Carolina
idiots to our population of unfortu- .i ' i., i ' ' , '
ine eueeesH (nvitiiittae tn tueir new unuei-
taking in a new land.
r new under-
ARRESTED ON A SERIOUS
CHARGE; PLEAD NOT GUILTY
1100
at es. And this same damnuble traffic
produces 76 per cent ot all tne criminuls
I his ull entails millions 01 dollars ot ex
pense on the taxpayers, to say nothing
f the large amounts contributed by or
ganized charity lor me relief ot the poor
nd unfortunate, made so by Uquor; o,-
10 to 100,0110 premature deaths result
i eh year from the same consclencless
mree, costing the nation huge sums of
noncy, to say nothing of the loss of
luuhood efficiency in tne country s econ
omy. For all these minions and hun- Clem Hardin, of Ft. Recovery was ar
eds of mil ions of expense tho Honor rested last Sunday bv Marshal Clark of
irees pay Into the treasury a paltry u0- that villagcon an alfidvlt Hied by Frances
OlMI.UOtl. and say in enect, 'Here Is the Hchuh. chifrging rape.
ice you charge us for the untold woe. He Dleaif not trdlllv when arraigned be
lserv. despair, heartaches. Insanity, ar- fore Alavfr Passman and was oruered
son, burglary, murder and deaths which bound over to the court in the sum of
e have caused. ( I SnOO. Unable to turnlsh bond he
was brouuht to this city and turned over
NOTICE TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN to Sheriff Pumphrey at the Hotel del
Mercer county.
Tllir Toto la trnlntr tn soil nvnpvllilni, ot I
st year's prices as Ion gas there Is any- The Cincinnati Dally Post and the
ing leu. it win pay you to come tor '-'""ncrai, uuiu im jour iur o.vv. ii
many miles. adv. rust is a great maricet paper,
Mrs. John Beam, aged 84 years, died
last Saturday everting at the home of her-
daughter, Mrs. W. L. Hay. southwest of
this city, just two weeks alter the death
of her only sister. Mrs. Ellen Barker.
Deceased was born in Pennsylvania on
January 28, 1832 and came with her par
ents to this county when nine years of
age. Besides the daughter above men
tioned, one brother, Enoch Golder, of
Ligomer, Mich., survives.
Funeral services were held nt tne Burnt
Wood church last Monday, with Rev. J.
P. Hlght, of this city in charge. Inter
ment was made at Swamp College cem
etery TOWN TOPICS
Lawrence Eichler and wife have moved
from the George Heffner farm to the Ruth
E. Mowry farm, east of this city.
The remains of the late Mrs. Rebecca
Jane Trlssel, of Liberty township, were
transferred Monday to Farmersville, O.,
for interment. Mrs. Trlssel died Satur
day from the effects of apoplexy.
The William Cron Sons Co., County
agents for the famous Overland automo
bile, received a consignment of eight car
loads of machines over the Cincinnati
Northern last Monday. All but one car
load was the new popular priced $615 car.
Hugh Stephenson, of Lima, underwent
an operation in that city lust Saturday
for the removal of his tonsils and ade
noids. A hemorrhage followed the oper
ation, which occasioned some alarm and
his father. Lumberman EI. E. Stephen
son, went to Lima and brought him home.
He is getting along nicely.
O. P. McAfee, residing on the St. Marys
road, Just across the county line, was ln
town Wednesday with several other
neighbors on their way to Rockford to
look over the cement roads running Into
that hustling village, in which they are
much interested since the improvement
of the St. Marys road is now under con
sideration. While their county has not
yet taken action in the mutter they are
out to find out the kind of road most desired.
If your horse is lame rub on thoroughly
Hanford's Balsam of Myrrh.
Miss Lillle, McDonal, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. George McDonal of this city,
and Hiram Miesse, of near Celina,
were united in marriage at 4 o'clock,
Sunday afternoon, February 17, 1916, at
Hie home of the bride's parents, by the
Rev. W. F. Martin, pastor of the M. B.
church. The bride was beautifully and
tastefully gowned in a creation of blue
silk-de-chine, with dainty lace trimming.
The groom was attired in a suit of blue
serge. After the marriage ceremony the
w edding dinner was served, with only the
in'incdin'.e fanilies. Mr. and Mrs. Miesse
left on the 9:45 a. m. C. H. & D.
train -Monday for a wedding trip to
points south. Upon their return they will
be at home to their many friends at the
groom's fine farm home west of Celina.
Wapakoneta Daily News.
MARRIAGE LICENSES
William Haldren Forwerck, 19, farmer,
Dublin township, son of Wm. Forwerck,
and Myrtle Graham, 18, housekeeper, of
Center township, daughter of Allen Gra
ham. Rev. A. H. Roebuck.
Ray Horshman, 2ti, and Caroline Kern,
19, housekeeper. Rockford, daughter Of
Chas. Kern. C. D. Rice, J. P.
Ralph C. Ilildbold. 21, farmer, Ft. Reco
very, son of Harmon Ilildbold. and Mar
garet Green, 21, housekeeper. Ft. Recov
ery, daughter of David Green.
REV. REITZ IN SMASH
UP AT WAPAKONETA
A Dodge motor car, driven by the Rev.
Frank J. Ruitz, pastor of the German
Luthern church of Celina, on the way
from Lima to Celina, was damaged near
noon Wednesday at the intersection of
Auglaize and Dearbaugh avenue, when it
struck a pole. Rev. Jieitz had the car
repaired in Lima and was driving it borne
when the accident occurred. When he
turned the steering wheel sharply to get
the wheels out of a rut, tiie car swerved
suddenly and engaged the pole before be
could stop It. The fender was somewhat
damaged, one lamp broken and the spring
damaged. The car was ta..en to the
Wahrer garge for repairs, which were
quickly taken care of, but not ln time to
prevent Rev. Reitz from missing an Im
portant appointment. Wapuktneoa Daily
New s.
DELICATE OPERATION
AT OTIS HOSPITAL
Very little hoDes of recover var en
tertained for Mrs. E. D. Cox, West An
thony street, who underwent an opera
tion at the Otis hospital last Monday.
She has been fulling in health for the
past several years from tulierculosls of
the abdomen, and the operation was an
dertaken with a possible hope oi pro
longing her life. The operation was suc
cessful, several organs show in r effects
of the disease being removed, but owing
to her frail condition her chances are
considered slight.
