Register Again!
Do It Now!
VOL. XXV.
Labor's Progress
MILLS TO WORK NIGHTS
ON BIG LUMBER ORDERS
ABERDEEN. -With foreign orders
p/iling up for Australian and South
American ports and demands of the
plant for lumber for the new Peter
son shipyards heavy, John Wilson,
manager of the Wilson Brothers lum
ber company, has announced that the
Wilson mill, beginning March 1, will
run a night shift as well as a day
shift. This will give work to 100 more
men. ,
New industries and extensions an
nounced in the past 10 days will in
crease the city's pay roll by 500 men
by March 1.
WOULD PROTECT WORKERS
BY LEGISLATION
ALBANY, N. V..—Senator Wagner
has introduced an amendment to the
state labor laws which will deny em
ployers the right of court review of
decisions of the state industrial com
mission, increasing the penalty for
locking doors ing factories and more
definitely fixing responsibility for en
forcement of laws upon the whole
commission. As the law now reads a
factory owner who has been ordered
to improve his property may go to the
courts and delay enforcement.
Another amendment, increases the
penalty for a violation of the law re
quiring factory exits to be unlocked.
Senator Wagner says that of all the
fires which have occurred during the
past few years where there has been
a loss of life, nothing has contributed
so much to the loss of life as locked
exits.
WHY CHILD LABOR BILL
IS OPPOSED IN SOUTH
GREENVILLE, S. C—According to
the Home Circle, published in this
city, here are the reasons why south
ern cotton mill owners oppose the
Keatin-Owen child labor bill, which is
intended to exclude from interstate
commerce child labor products:
"First —When children are excluded
from the mills, they have to go to
school, be educated and enlightened.
"Second —Ignorance is what pleases
the cotton mill authorities.
"Third —Education means light,
knowledge, power, emancipation and
freedom.
"Fourth —The cotton manufacturers
have been made vastly rich by work
ing children at half wages, doing
grown folks' work.
"Fiifth —When this bill is passed,
they well know they will have to pay
the grown folks enough to support
the children anyhow. If they don't,
the farms are inviting them.
"Sixth —As long as they can keep
the workers in ignorance, they can
cheat and rob them and control them
more.
"Seventh —When the textile work
ers are better educated, they can get
better employment, therefore demand
better wages—a decent living.
"The above are some facts and rea
sons why this bill is opposed by the
money powers.
"Didn't the mill owners circulate
and beg their employes to sign peti
tions, asking for this bill not to be
passed, because it would seriously In
terfere with the factory business?"
INCREASE FOR PRINTERS
Sacramento.—The Typographi
cal union and printing employers have
agreed to the following wage rates
for floormen: $24.75 per week until
March 31, 1916; $25 from April 1,
1916, to September 30, 1916; $26
thereafter until December 31, 1918.
The minimum rates for apprentices
are: Third year, one-third of a jour
neyman's scale; fourth year, one-half
of a journeyman's scale; fifth year,
two-thirds of a journeyman's scale. A
joint committee of employers and em
ployes shall be appointed to devise
educational methods for these appren
tices.
Under the agreement all differences
are to be adjusted by conciliation or
arbitation.
PASADENA. Calif. — The Typo
graphical union has negotiated a two
year agreement which provides for a
$1 increase Immediately and an addi
tional $1 during the second year.
The pacifists ought to be lucky—
they are always knocking Wood. —Co-
lumbia State.
CEMENT STRIKE STILL ON
TOWN NOT "UN-AMERICAN"
Mitchell, Ind—The Lehigh Port
land Cement Company has evidently
abandoned its policy ot intimidating
workmen who have been striking for
the right to organize. Low wages
and long hours at this plant forced
the workers to unite. This was fol
lowed by the most active members
being discharged, followed hy riots
instigated by gunmen, imported by
the company. The Tribunee, publish
ed in this city, indicated the condi
tions against which cement workers
struck when it boastfully declared:
"In Mitchell we have the cheapest la
bor this slide of China." The editor
gave this as a reason why other in
dustries should locate here.
The Lehigh Portland Company has
discovered its bludgeon policy has
not produced results and has an
nounced that hereafter the eight-hour
day and a minimum rate of 11.70 will
be the rule.
This company is still opposed to
organized labor, and unionists say the
latest move is an attempt to create
the impression among cement users
the company is fair to organized la
bor.
WAIST MAKERS WIN
BOSTON. —As a result of a strike,
several thousand waist makers, af
filiated to the International Indies'
Garment Workers' Union, have se
cured union recognition, wage in
creases of from 5 to 20 per cent., and
a reduction of working hours from
54 to 49 per week. The union has in
creased its membership by about
1000.
EASTLAND BUILT FOR FREIGHT
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. —At the
trial before Federal Judge Sessions
of the owners of the Eastland, excur
sion boat which sank in the Chicago
River last summer, the government
forced Sydney G. Jenks, builder of
the boat, to acknowledge that it was
never intended for excursion business
and that the vessel was originally de
signed to carry a maximum of 500
passengers and a small quantity of
freight, principally fruit. From this
original purpose, he said, the East
land was converted into an excursion
boat to carry from 1500 to 3000 pas
sengers without any mathematical
calculations of scientific stability
tests being made to determine its
safety.
Company officials will claim that
piling and rock obstructions on the
river bottom caused the boat to tip
over. The government contends that
outside agencies, such as piling and
motest connection with the disaster,
that the boat was of faulty construc
tion for excursion purposes, and that
the officials of the St. Joseph-Chicago
Steamship Company knew this and
conspired to send an unseaworthy
ship to sea for profit.
HUGE ]
•LABOR'S SHARE"—WILL DO THE
FIGHTING IN CASE OF WAR
NKW YORK.—The Winchester Re
peating Arms company has declared
a dividend of 465 per cent, and the
Atlas Powder Company a dividend of
35.80 per cent.
The report of the former concern
shows net earnings of $4,652,095 on a
capital of $1,000,000. The Atlas Pow
der Company shows net income of
$1,671,762 in 1915, compared with
$474,150 in 1914.
Of the Winchester company's total
business for the year, $11,500,000 rep
resented domestic orders and $8,500,
--000 foreign, chiefly European deliv
ery.. The gross increase was one
third hi excess or the preceding year.
The stock, par value $100, recently
sold as high as $3,000 a share.
BOSTON.— Representatives of the
Machinists' union have started a 10
--weeks' organizing campaign among
these workers In Rhode Island and
Connecticut.
BOARD OF CONTROL
TO MEET SUNDAY
The newly elected Labor Journal
Board of Control will meet Sunday
at 10 a.m., in the Labor Temple. Im
portant business will be transacted.
The Labor Journal
PRESIDENT OF EMPLOYERS ASSOCIATION SUGGESTS
LAWLESSNESS AND VIOLENCE TO CRIPPLE UNIONS
-WOULD BOYCOTT UNION LABELS AND BUTTONS
SKINNER SAYS EMPLOYING CLASS SHOULD
VOTE AS ONE IN COMMON INTERESTS
Capitalists Are Too Lenient With Unionists—Klu Klux Klan
Needed To Abolish Union "Bug" (Label)
The vicrious principle that working
people should not be permitted to
organize for mutual protection and
advancement Is gradually being
abandoned by the ruling class as an
open-and-above-board method of re
pression. Contemptuous defiance of
the so-called rights of man is no long
er regarded as good tactics. Certain
forms of co-operative effort on the
part of wage-slaves are all right, say
the bosses. Just as there are good
trusts and bad trusts, there are good
unions and bad unions. A bad union
is one that uses "coercive methods"
and employs business agents and
walking delegates. It insists upon the
practice of collective bargaining rela
tive to wages and working conditions.
A good union is, according to the em
ploying class, one in which the "gen
uine workers" confer directly with
their employers, and accept whatever
terms are vouchsafed by the kind
hearted bosses. In other words, a
good union is one whose members are
granted the great American "right"
to life, liberty and the PURSUIT of
happiness without adopting any ef
fective means of obtaining any of
these delectable ends excepting the
PURSUIT. It is entirely praisewor
thy to go to the bosses as individual
wage slaves and BEG FOR MERCY,
as a sort of charity, but it is im
moral, despotic, un-American, crimi
nal, to DEMAND justice and better
conditions. Only the "irresponsible
element" in the labor movement
would adopt such intolerable methods
against exploitation. Such sovereign
citizens of this great republic should
be disciplined, by force if need be.
Says Mr. Skinner (how appropriate
the name), President of the Employ
ers' Association of Washington:
"I firmly believe that there is no
other element, religious or secular, in
the community, that could for so long
and so persistently have continued
the outrageous conduct that labor
unions have permitted and encour
aged without its creating in each com
munity an organization similar to the
Klu Klux Klan."
Lest it be thought that we are over
emphasizing the brutal candor of the
had not the re-
labor-skinner element, we quote at
full length a speech made by Mr. G.
N. Skinner, president of the Employ
ers' Association of Washington, at
the annual meeting of this patriotic
organization held in Seattle last week
SAN FRANCISCO. — The Evening
Bulletin of this city is not impressed
with the stool trust's wage increase i
of 10 per cent or $1,500,000 to its 250,- j
000 employes. The Bulletin editor j
says:
"This indicates an average annual
wage of about $660 per man. The
same result is obtained hy multiply
ing the rate per hour —2 2 cents for
unskilled labor —first hy ten, as the J
average number of hours worked in
a day, and then by 300, which is prob
ably above the maximum number of
days worked in a year. It has been
a foresighted policy among steel man
ufacturers, blessed as they have been
with an unlimited supply of unskilled
labor from abroad, to attach to their
service a number of men considerably
In excess of those that they could
employ at one time, or at least for
any appreciable time.
"Besides this. It has to be remem- edge concerning the defectiveness of agreement signed by the Iron Mold
bered that the $660 rate is an aver- the victims. There are some rough-1 ers' Union and the Foundrymen's as
age, and that there must be wages and-ready criteria by which we can sociation. which took effect the first
which fall below $660. Seven hundred judge the appalling simplicity of aof the month Wages have been in
dollars a year, according to the care- , large portion of the public. One of creased 35 cents a day. which makes
ful computations of numerous inves- | these, Is childish amusements, like the present rate *3 75. Time and one
tigators, is the minimum amount on the Charlie Chaplin cult. The spec half will be paid for overtime and
which the average workingman canjtacle manifested by those who pay double time for Sundays, New Year's,
bring up a family in bare decency. continual devotion to this shrine, and Memorial day, Fourth of July, Labor
Bare decency' excludes nearly every- laj that, of the sentimental and wholly day and Christmas.
thing that we call luxuries. It signl- banal type of movie which is present
fles a condition under which a work-1 ed In most of the houses. Is one of The baßic trouble with international
ingman is practically, in brutal terms, j the moßt deplorable and depressing law is that it has never been inter
no better off than a breeding animal." lln the whole range of modern social national —New York Sun.
THE OFFICIAL PAPER OF THE fffflftfr EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL
DEVOTED TO THE INTEREST OF ORGANIZED LABOR.
Calls Conduct Outrageous
LOW WAGES A MENACE
EVERETT, WASH., FRIDAY, MARCH :(, 1916.
at the Hotel Washington It was giv
en in the Seattle Times as follows:
SAYS MR. SKINNER: HOW IT IS SHOWN
At this time there is before us, as I This is evidenced frequently by tlie
well as contemplated, some very rad- Willingness and apparent desire of ,i
ical legislation that will have a tre- j large proportion of officeholders to
mendous influence, either for good or Ido things they would naturally be re
for evil, upon our entire state. It luctant to perform for the purpose of
will, unquestionably, have more to do currying favor with that particular
with the progress of the affairs of element. The employers and allied
Washington than anything we could organizations all over the world have
anticipate as happening In the future. I cut out for them a distinct and well-
I mean, in particular, the referred ! defined duty, both as individuals and
measures and the proposed initiative as organizations. They must con
and referendum bills thai are to be tribute work and personal interest to
voted on in the fall election. Chief a degree that will offset the inces
among these is the anti-picketing law. aant and effective activity of the ir
enacted by the last legislature, but responsible minority,
suspended from operation through Very often we find men of large
referendum petitions. This law is of affairs who are not at all familiar with
incalculable importance to all employ- the efforts and purposes of organiza
ers and to the public generally, in tions such as ours. For this reason
that it would put an end to one of our principal efforts need to be di
the most vicious, brutal and un-Amer- rected along educational channels,
ican practices known to industrial The people must be made to know the
life. nature and consequences of these
harmful elements in society and be
sufficiently aroused so that they, too,
Wfill be ready to take part In this cam
paign of public education.
Often we are accused of trying to
destroy the unions. To those who
have been connected with our work
we do not have to explain that we
are not against unionism, but oppose
the manipulation of this unit of in
dustrial strength for personal gain
and political purposes. From time to
time we have to chide our people for
not being more firm in their devo
tion to principles in order to combat
such efforts.
I firmly believe that there is no
other element, religious or secular, in
the community, that could for so long
and so persistently have continued the
outrageous conduct that labor unions
have permitted and encouraged with
out its creating in each community an
organization similar to the Klu Klux
Klan.
Others Are Important
The other measures, with which
you are all familiar, are of equal im
portance and should finally become
the laws of the state. Although the
legislature passed those laws unani
mously, a small organized minority
of voters have been able to handcuff
and prevent them from becoming op
erative and may be able, eventually,
to defeat the laws b> a referendum
vote.
WILL FIGHT FOR ANTI-PICKET
LAWS
A strong, unrelenting fight must be
waged to retain these laws on our
statute books. That long battle must
be fought by trills a -ociation. As a
first step every member of this or
ganization should see to it that he
registers and votes; then he should
insist on his family, employes and
friends doing likewise. Money con
tributed for such a campaign cannot
alone win the day. Enthusiasm and
co-operation on the part of every busi
ness man are absolutely necessary to
accomplish the desired results.
Strikingly before us are many In
stances of where organised small mi
norities, such as thi labor unions,
whose membership includes not to
exceed 6 per cent of the industrial
population, have, through persistent
exerted a more powerful influence
among public officials and at election
time than that of all other political.
£ FC
What be calls •'.croup-imbecility" la
described and condemned by an cdi
itorial in The Medical Times (New,
j York, February). The sudden attacks)
lOf panic and hysteria to which crowds!
(are subject have often been studied!
by psychologists, but the foolishness
of the crowd, especially as exempli
fled by some popular fads, is quite as
noticeable. Says the writer:
"In all our considerations of social
and industrial exploitation we over
emphasize the greed and oppresshe
ness of the master class. But little
account is taken of a great factor that
enters into the problem, and that Is
group-feeblemindedness. The degree
to which people can be exploited must
often be a revelation to the exploiters
and the boldness of the latter in ac
tivltles unfortunately affecting great
numbers of the public is often best
accounted for on the basis of knowl
commercial and civic bodies put to
gether.
Notwithstanding our knowledge of
the existence of such outrages as
have been perpetrated, we have come
to assume that this conduct on the
part of the labor unions is a fixed
and necessary evil that we have to
abide by and allow to flourish. In
other countries, where these unions
have been in existence for greater
lengths of time and where they have
recently been called upon to demon
strate their patriotism—what do the
(Continued on page 41
phenomena. The apparent impossi
bility of inducing large portions of
the public to practice personal hy
ft'ene of the most elementary sort is
another index of the rough-and-ready
kind. The behavior of the masses in
time of war or of threatened war is
another significant thing. The ease
with Which they can be swayed by
'accelerators' employing factitious slo
gans, like specious appeals to alleged
patriotism, is astounding. The facil
ity with which they can be cajoled
by pensions, bonuses and compensa
tion deviseß, In lieu of proper wages
is Unbelievable, We need to study
more carefully the crowd's chronic
imbecility. The eugenic, the political,
and the industrial bearings of this
group-feeble-m'ndedness are most im
portant."
IRON MOLDERS RAISE WAGES
SYRACUSE, \ V Nearly 400 iron
molders are benefited by a one-year
Millions for Publicity
a ? mWU "" "" I " MrK " ,!Ha BIGGEST PART OF COAL COST
ADDED OUTSIDE OF MINE
By Basil M. Manly
WASHINGTON. - Th. anthracite j By Vernon R. Smith
nnnnnTTT inßtitUt<?d 3 $2> ' A ' on ot Bnthra <=»e, chestnut size
000,000 advertising campaign to tell (for which the Minneapolis consumer
the W lc a n people that they cannot pays a ,„„, Coßtß the p ~
afford to mcroase the wages of the | vania mine owner from 12 to 12 26 a
miners a single penny. The operators', ton on the cars ready for shipment
rtewa is "Millions for publicity, but! According to a report made by the
no one cent for wages." | Unitpd statpg government „„ an(nra .
Hy 1 Lee. now press-agent for J. cite prices in 1912, the miner gets 54
D Rockefeller, established the pub- cents of this amount for the actual
iclty bureau for the anthracite opera-1 digging and loading,
tors in 1903. In connection with the The reßt , 8 maintenance Inside and
ndnSrTa. C ° ffin,, » loß « OUt.ide the mines, other labor costs,
ndnstrial Relations, a statement by supplies, etc., and includes all items
'.y Lee was developed which reveals j that Thp minp tor „ cc , „
ht purposes and methods of the an- Jr., even to maintenance of New York
hracite operators' publicity bureau, offices. In other words, the $225 is
Mr. Le e | a padded figure.
"An experience in the anthracite WHERE PROFITS GO
ttrike., of 1908 will illustrate this On this ton of coal, the mine owner
Mea The miners asked for a stand- takes approximately $1.10 as his pro
ard rate of wages to apply at all col- , lt . The retaller getß „ for )hp ton
Merles. It seemed monstrous to the 0 f coal as his profit
operators. They therefore took the i The railroads get the rest
actual pay- sheets for certain mines, These figures, of course, do not
and applied the proposed rates to thej prptend to be exacti DUt th( . v are fair
actual rates then being paid. They approximations and they Illustrate the
found—and so stated specifically to j siluation
the public-that in some cases the Anthracite coal is controlled by as
mens demand called for wages three air . tight a monopo ,y as exists in the
tunes as great as were being paid., world . The mine owner, railroad and
That announcement was shown to a rptai , Pr havP bppn kpn of ag jf
railroad prestdent. and he said. 'What they were diff „ rPnt individuals .
is the use of putting out anything of t-i . • . , ,
»<..« »• , ttl, -> lu '"B Ul The fact is that m most instances
that sort? The peop c want to know ,v • , ~ j, ,
. . ~ . , * " " ■ Vlluw ,they are a single group of individuals
about the whole thing and not about I o-i, 1
, .. .. „ " ! The coal-carrying roads are the mine
a few petty detai s.' He had hardly : „,,. „ . , .
. * . mwuij owners They are the freight car
uttered that suggestion before the _,„„ .„,, „. ,
, riers. And they are the bisrgest re
evening papers were on the streets tailprs
with such headings as 'Miners Ask' r-v. „■
„ _ " . OR I They- fix the price of coal to the
100 Fer ( ent. Increase in Wages ' . . . .
.. . * consumer on the basts of this monop-
NOW if you give me the headings I . .
... B " neauings, 1 oly, and that price is "all the traffic
will give you the articles and edi-. wi]] bpar „
torials. Any man reading that head-! -,-„, ,
, , , . .. Yet the railroad mine owners, in an
ing would immediately jump to the . . . ,
„ , . .... .. / "' expensive advertising campa gn they
conclusion that the miners were a ... „
. , . „ are conductine all over the country,
set of hogs.
... . . . . i are representing that if they grant
Mr. Lee succeeded in his publicity . . .
. . ' • the demand of the nvners for a 20
campaign in 1903 in doing just what „ . ' , „.
~, ~_ „ . * ' per cent increase in wages they will
the anthracite operators press bureau , .. '
. H uuicou navp t0 add fin cents a ton to the
is trying to do now—make the public i •„,,-,
. , . v price of coal, making the cost to the
think the miners are a lot of hogs. 1 v ~, *
... . & household consumer of chestnut coal
Whether they succeed depends upon |g 0 - , ngtead of , 836 ,
the public. After a faker has told
them plainly just how he operates his
swindle, will they fall a second time
for the same game, in the same place,
with the same dealer, and the same' PUOF T ' N BOWMAN OF THE
pack of marked cards' UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
The anthracite operators evidently' BPEAK IN TIIK FORUM, 1612
believe the public will take the bait CALIFORNIA ST . SUNDAY AT 8
as readily as ever, for they are bet- PM " OX " THK ECONOMIC CAUSES
ting $2,000,000 on it " | OP THE EUROPEAN WAR." AD-
This belief is based on three car- FREE EVERYBODY
dinal principles of publicity as laidj^
down by Ivy Lee in an address be-
fore the Railway Guild, which he sent Washington. D. r. Is talking of go-
Mr. Rockefeller, before being put on ing dry That will be almost a rasus
the permanent pay-roll, in order that belli for some of the nations there
Mr. Rockefeller "might understand represented diplomatically -St. I^ouis
ome of the ideals by which I work." Globe Democrat
These are the three cardinal prin -
clples which set forth the attitude of ' The next time we have to send Ger-
Mr. Lee and the anthracite operators many a note, we favor letting Billy
award the American people:
"In the first place, crowds do not
reason; government, are yet the most progres
"Second, crowds are led by symbols »|ve and contented people in Europe,
and phrases; for thp reason that the Emperor of
"Third, success in dealing with Germany has got himself absolutely
crowds * • * rests upon the art of believed in by his people. So that
getting believed in We know that he may do anything he desires and
Henry the Eighth by his obsequious they are glad to have him do it "
deference to the forms of law was The anthracite operators are now
able to pet the English people to be- spending $1,000,000 to get themselves
lieve him so completely that he was •believed in," so that they may do
able to do almost anything with them, "anything they desire" and the Amor
At the present time, the German Em lean people will he - clad to have
pire, as I see it. the most despotic them do it "
Social Dance
The Label League
Monday, March 6
In Organization
Lies the Hope
of Labor
Sunday write it. —Columbia State.
GIVEN BY
AT
RENNIES HALL
f, 50 CENTS
IMPORTANT 1
LADIES FREE
No. 54
