•id
t.
it
f'#
•.'f
ifi
fc
kit
EVENING
EDITION
VOL. 11, NO. 53.
HEAVY LOSSES
SUSTAINS) IN
NEW ONSLAUGHT
Fighting with Re-doubled
Violence Took Place
Yesterday.
FRENCH REPULSE
SOME ADVANCES
Vaux Also Attacked, But the
Teutons Are Driven
Back.
Paris, March 3.—Fighting, with
redoubled violence by German
troops continued all day yesterday
and last evening in the region north
of Verdun. Bombardment* and at
tack succeeded each other In rapid
order.
Near Douaumont, several fruit
less endeavors on the part of the
Germans were repulsed with cruel
losses for them, says the war of
fice. Nevertheless, the Germans
succeeded in reaching the village
of Douaumont where fighting con
tinues today with ferocity. The
village of Vaux also was attacked
by the Germans, but these ad
vances were checked by French
Are. The Germans were compelled
to retire, leaving a great number
of dead. The bombardment In the
Woevre district continued hut
niglit with great Intensity, but the
French forces held the Germans In
check by their curtain of fire. Hie
artillery of the Germans has been
active in the fWBlty ot Miliniiju^Kiyi
and also near Hauoonrt.
CUBARED 'BOIJAtMONT ^MiaE
Berlin, March 3.—German troops
•yesterday cleared the village Of
Douauinont and pushed their lines
to the west and south of the vil
lage, and also of the armored fort,
according to the German army
headquarters announcement.
EXPECT DEFICIT
OF ABOUT $500,000
(Herald Special Service.)
Winnipeg, Man., March 3.—Hon.
Edward Brown, provincial treasurer,
states there will be a deficit of $500,
000 at the end of the current fiscal
year in the government finances. The
revenue fund receipts, even with the
new systems of taxation which are
now being considered by the legisla
ture, will not within a half million
dollars approximate the expenditures
which have been authorized.
MOTHERS PENSION
FOR MANITOBA
(Herald Special Service.)
Winnipeg, Man., March 3.—Premier
T. O. Norris in the legislature has in
troduced the bill to provide for al
lowances to mothers. The idea of the
measure is that widows who have to
work for a living and who have young
children, shall receive from the prov
ince such an allowance as will enable
her to keep them at home and false
them herself instead of sending them
to an institution. It is expected that
this social experiment will cost the
province about $16,000 for the first
year, which sum will be supplemented
by private charity.
TRANSFORMATION
STILL CONTINUES
Paris, March 3—The transforma
tions of old Paris are not to be ar
rested by war. The president of the
republic has Just decreed the widening
of the rue Valois and the rue Croix
des Petits Champs in the First Ar
rondissement, to give more air to the
Bank of France.
Part of the old rue des Bons En
fants and all of the rue Bailllf will
disappear under this decree to give
room for the extension of the bank.
A new street will unite the rue Valois
and the rue Croix des Petits Champs
beginning in the rue du Louvre at the
Bourse de Commerce, and running to
the east arcades of the Palais Royal
to give a better outlet to the circula
tion from the central markets toward
the Place de l'Opera.
The cutting of the new street at
that point involves the disappearance
of the Chancellory of Orleans, an im
portant artistic and historic relic of
old Paris, but the contract with the
Bank of France required the recon
stitution in the facade of Its new
extension of all the parts of the old
structure that have a historical or ar­
.JURY DISAGREES.
New Orleans, March 3.—The feder
al court Jury trying Felipe Dusart
Quintana, former ocer in Villas army,
on charges of conspiracy to violation
neutrality laws by shipment of arms
to Mexico disagreed yesterday. Aftte
Quintana had been released on Jl,
000 .bonds he was rearrested on a sim
ilar charge brought in Florida in con
necUon with the operation of
schooner Lucy H.
7 BL
minimum,
the
UNIVERSITY READING®,
#.v
maximum, 17
barometer, S0.SS.
I, WEATHER IOBW3A8T.
North Dakota: Fair tonight
and
probably Saturday wy«r
tonigmand
MM*
VtMTWturd»f.
a
%1
eenti*! por-
rV'.-^CV-.'/J'
TO PRESIDE OVER
INVESTIGATION
(Herald Special 8ervice.)
Moose Jaw, Sask., March 3.—-Judge
C. p. D. Wood of Weyburn has been
appointed by the attorney general to
preside over the investigation into
graft in the Moose Jaw police depart
ment which will open March 7.
GROSS PROFITS
ARE $800,000
(Herald Special Service.)
Regina, Sask., March 3.—Hon. J. A.
Calder, minister of transportation,
says the estimated gross profits after
paying the cost of operation of the
government's liquor dispensary sys
tem for the coming year, is placed at
$800,000.
(MRGffilTtl
ROBBING POST
0TFia0F$102
Money is Taken From Cash
Drawer at Several Differ
ent Times.
,f
Wahpeton. N. D., March 3.—Earl
Mewing, a olerk employed as night
man at the Soo depot in Tenney,
Minn., since the early part of Octo
ber, 1915, was arrested by federal
authorities charged with robbing the
postofflce at that place of the sum of
$102.
Went Several limes.
Sums of money had been missing
several times from the postofflce cash,
each time after the postmasteh and
his assistant returned from the sup
er hour,
Bills Marked. ...
marked bills were -placed in the post
offlce oash, and oh the same eveening,
Alley, wire-- 'Stolen- These bills were
turned in a few days later by Earl
Mewing.
Shown Kvidence.
When confronted with this evi
dence, he made a full confession, stat
ing that he had gained admission to
the building during the absence of
the postmaster and assistant, and
taken the money from the drawer.
He is now in the county Jail at Breck
enridge awaiting criminal proceed
ings.
Mewing is 21 years of age, and was
married to a South Dakota girl last
January, after two months acqualnt
ance. Her mother is a widow living
at Linton, N. D.
BOAT ON THE BLACK
LIST GETS NO COAL
St. Johns, N. F., March 3.—The
Norwegian steamer Ontaneda. which,
because of admiralty suspicions that
she was engaged in contraband traffic,
has been forced to lie at this port six
weeks without coal, has resumed her
voyage. This was made possible, it is
understood, through her. owners' com
pliance with an order that they give
security for the.gopd .cppduct of the
ship as a preliminary to obtaining the
coal required to. allpw her to reach
Wilmington, Del., her destination.
The Ontaneda sailed from Chris
Mania without cargo. In crossing the
Atlantic she burned all the coal
aboard, and her captain put in here
for a new supply only to learn that
it was not obtainable, as she was on
the admiralty's "blacklist."
PASSENGER TRAIN
RAMS SNOW PLOW
(Herald Special Service.)
Winnipeg, Man., March 3.—The
passenger train on the Great Northern
bound from Grand Forks to Brandon
ran into a snow plow near Bolssevain,
Man., this morning blocking the lines.
None of the trainmen received serious
injuries. A storm hid the snow plow.
A wrecking crew went out from Bran
don.
ARRESTED' ON
CHARGE OF THEFT
Houston, Tex., March 3.—Jack C.
Wilbur of Chloago who has been
known here as a promoter of oil pro
jects in Mexico was arrested here yes
terday on charges of burglary and
thefts in twenty-one Houston resi
dences within the last thirty days.
Jewelry worth several thousand dol
lars was stolen. Only part of which
has been recovered-. Wilbur denied
any knowledge of the thefts. He is
said to be a member of a wealthy
family.
IMITATION CIDER
IS CONFISCATED
Denver, March A lam quan
tity of "imitation fruit eider." confis
cated by state officials, was hauled to
Che state house yesterday. The con
fiscation was made when the state
chemist reported the "elder" contain
ed six to seven per. cent alcohol and
was more intoxicating than beer. Of
ficials said muoh of the- product was
shipped to Colorado by the Los An
geles Fruit Prodttots company of St
Louis.' •=&
lOSHEUtAN 1TNEBAL feELD.
Los Angeles, March I.—The funeral
of John it. Eshelman. lieutenant gov
ernor of California.' was held here
yesterday by the Masonic grand lodge
of CallfoiWa. A eulogy was deliv
ered by Gfovern'ot Hlram W. Johnson:
Mr. Eshelknan died suddenly Monday
at Indfo, Cal.-«-Hewaaknown nation
ally as an authority on regulation of
public liUUtfr cdtl^ttofls. SM.
,rjf I WpV&r $m
O^ ', -i ,V
4
In dissenting, President Tener's
minority report said:
"To find for the appellants in this
case is to say in effect that any lea
gue possessed of territorial rights un
der circumstances similar to those
presented in this case has a vested
right in perpetuity cannot by any
overt act, neither by its officially
pledged word so to do, nor anything
conceivable, vacate and abandon such
territory but at its caprice, will, and
pleasure, may or may not operate
such territory, even to the extreme
hardship, unfairness and injustice to
the citizens residing within the limits
of such territory."
TWO MEN TAKEN
AS GERMANS
New York, March 3.—After a year
of flight which took them on foot
across the South'American continent,
two brothers, P., and A. Maurer, who
claimed American cltlsenship and who
were said to have fled from a German
steamship Interned ih a Chlleen port,
were seised as Germans by the Brit
ish authorities at Kingston, Jamaica,
according to the story told by per
sona on board the United Fruit com
pany steamer Carrillo, which arrived
here yesterday from South and Cen
tral American ports.
The American consul at Puerto
Colombia, according to Captain Nick
erson of the Carrillo, requested him
to take the brothers to New York. At
Cristobel, Panama, the two tried to
land, but Captain Nickerson said he
forbade them to do so. At Kingston,
where all the passengers were exam
ined, the British port officers remov
ed the brothers to an internment
camp.
ROBERT CONLEY TO
FIGHT EXTRADITION
(Herald Special Service.)
Winnipeg, Man., March 3.—Robert
O. Conley, charged with enibenllng
16,000 from the Singer Sewing Ma
chine company in Huntingdon, W.
Va., has now decided to fight extra
dition. Lieutenant of Police John
Duverftett and Sergeant William Hill,
both "of the Huntingdon force, are in
the oity to take Conley into custody
but the prisoner engaged the service
of R. A. Bonnar, C., noted criminal
lawyer to light hie oase, which will be
heard before the court of king's bench
In few daym^ vt ,* 4
i. ..
u*&•V'
*9
JL
f-
LURNIi Off CAPE Ififflf HAY
BE GERMAN COMMEiS RAIOQt
New York, March 8.—The report that a German commerce raider
er a prize Is lurking off Cape Henry, Va„ awaitlnig a favorable chance
to make a dash for Newport News, or Norfolk, was brought here by
Captain Munkewitz of the Bull-Insular liner Grayson, which arrived
from Porto Rloo.
MYSTERIOUS LIGHTS. .V'f
Captain Munkewitz said that early yesterday the second officer re
ported a mysterious light to the east which he could not make out.
The light was moving eastward, and Captain MunketyUz allowed the
course of his ship to be changed In that direction, when a second light
appeared close to the port ride, apparently moving westward. Both
lights disappeared as suddenly as they appeared.
KEEP MOVEMENTS SECRET.
On January 14, the captain said, when he was.practically in the
same position several white lights were observed to the cast. It was a
few days after this that the Appam took refuge In Hampton Roads.
Captain Mnnkewltc said that heavy weather and clouds prevailed off
the Virginia coast, and that he is satisfied that the vessels whose lights
he had seen were trying to keep their movements secTfet. He felt sure
that the lights did not belong to British cruisers as .these patrol ships
make no secret of their movements.
CANNOT HAVE
ROQUSIAND
Central Association Ordered
Not to Operate with That
City in the League.
Cincinnati, Ohio, March 3:—The
Central association was ordered not to
operate with the city of Rock Island
in its circuit by the national baseball
commission in a finding promulgated
here yesterday. In making this de
cision the ruling of the national asso
ciation in this controversy, which was
between the Central association and
the Three-I league, was overruled
The commission likewise was partly
divided on the subject. President Ten
er of the National league dissenting
from the majority ruling signed by
Chairman Herrmann of the commis
sion and President Johnson of the
American league. The majority find
ing was based on the fact that Rock
Island was original Three-I league
territory and that in surrendering its
territorial rights even though it did
not operate a team in Rock Island
the Three-I league is being injured.
The majority finding in this regard
says:
"Moline and Davenport, which have
I. I. I. league franchises, are each less
than five miles from Rock Island and
hence their territorial prerogative
cannot be infringed upon without sub
jecting them to liability to serious
damage in their property rights.
"Injury to every club in the I. I. I.
league is possible If the Central aso
clation should be permitted to oper
ate within five miles of Davenport and
Moline because of the competition
that will result."
•ft? **A«"
wu */.
•jfig'"
•SL
RtftTfaT
PREPAREDNESS
MEETING TODAY
National Defense Conference
of Mayors 'Assemble in
St. Louis..
St. Louis. Mo., IfSarch 3.—-The Na
tional Defense Conference of Mayors,
composed of mayors and delegates
appointed by them, from many of the
large cities of the country, assembled
here today for a two days' session for
the discussion of preparedness for na
tional defense.
On the program for today were
George M. Brown of the St. Louis
branch of the National Security
league, who was to speak on "Gen
eral and Industrial Preparedness
Mayor Curley of Boston Kichard L.
Metcalfe of Omaha Mrs. Philip N.
Moore of St. Louis, president of the
National Council of Women and for
mer president of the General Federa
tion of Women's clubs Henry A. Wise
Wood: Henry L. West of New York,
executive secretary of the National
Security league Mayor George J.
Karb of Columbus, Ohio Prof.
Roland G. Usher of Washington uni
versity, St. Louis, who was to speak
on "The' European View of the Mon
roe Doctrine Mayor C. E. Sebastien
of Los Angeles, who was to speak on
"Protection of the Pacific Coast
Mayor Behrman of New Orleans:
Mayor O. H. Bentley of Wichita,
Kan. Mayor Jonas Fisher of Wil
liamsport, Pa., and Mayor Louis P.
Fuhrman of Buffalo.
Mayor William Hale Thompson of
Chicago has been asked to preside at
the first session Saturday. Addresses
are expected from Frederick L.
Huidekoper of Washington, D. C., who
will speak on "Military History and
Policy Owen Miller of St. Louis,
secretary of the American Federation
of Musicians, who will speak on "La
bor and Preparedness Mayor James
H. Woodward of Atlanta, Ga. Mrs.
Linden W. Bates of New York, chair
man of the woman's section of the
movement for national defense Cor
nelius VanderbiK, chairman of the
New York Defense Committee of One
Thousand T. L. Klrkpatrick. mayor
of Charlotte, N. C., and C. H. Kelly,
mayor of Toledo. Ohio.
Mayor Mitchell of New York will
preside at the session Saturday after
noon. Mayor Dahlman of Omaha will
speak at that meeting, as will also
George W. Wickersham, former at
torney general of the United States
and Robert Bacon of Boston, former
secretary of state.
A banquet Saturday night will close
the conference.
PACKING CASES
SHOWN TO JURY
Pittsburgh, March 3.—Eight pack
ing cases containing fifty-five drawers
of what the government contends are
confidential files of the United States
Brewers' association were taken into
the grand jury room yesterday to be
used in the investigation of the
charge that certain brewing interests
have been active in politics. They
were seised at the association's of
fices in New York last Tuesday on
orders from Washington.
Two young women from the asso
ciation's offices, Kathryn Tighe and
her eister, Bernadetta Tighe. entered
the grand Jury room at the same
time.
OIL TANK STEAMER
IS FOUND DRIFTING
St Johns, N. F., March 3.—The
British oil tank steamer San Onofre,
with cbal supply exhausted and drift
ing for two days toward the icefields
off this coast, was picked up yester
day by the AshtaMeau, also a British
oil tanker.
A
wireless
message from the San
Onofre added that the vessels were
proceeding to this port Their posi
tion Was given as ls$ miles off Cape
Rice.
The San Onofre bound for Mexico
from Great Britain, eent a wireless
call of distress Tueeday whieh w«
relayed to the Ashtftbleeu. bound
front Mbine, Texaa.
for
London.
GRAND FORKS, N. D„ PRlDAIjgfTONlfJG, MARCH 3, 1918. TEN PAGES—PRICE FIVE CENTS.
NEW COMET FOUND
BY PROF. BACKLUND
Cambridge, Mass., March 3.—The
discovery of a small comet by Neuj
min wae announced yesterday in a
cablegram to the Harvard observa
tory from Professor Backlund of the
imperial observatory at Pulkowa, Rus
sia. The message stated that the
comet, which was found in a photo
graph, had a slow motion south and
was of the eleventh magnitude.
Its position on February 24 was:
Right ascension, 8 hours, 58 minutes,
40 seconds and declination 16 degrees,
24 minutes, north.
SMALL DECREASE
IN COALOUTPUI
Output for 1915 was Only
14,800,000 Tons Less
Than in 1914.
Berlin, March 3.—(Correspondence
of the Associated Press).—The pro
duction of coal in Germany in 1115
made a very good showing in spite of
the shortage of labor caused by the
war. The year's output reached a to
tal of 146,712,000 tons, or only 14,
800,000 less than for the record year
1913. Of brown coal or lignite, the
production last year was the greateet
ever known, having reached 88,36*,
000 tons, or about 1,500,000 more than
for 1913. Coke production also kept
up remarkably well. It amounted to
26,359,000 tons, or about 6,700,000
tons less than for 1913. The produc
tion of briquettes from both coal
waste and lignite was the largest ever
known.
3|t-View of the fact th4£.M)ly one-
servle* upon the outbreak of the war,
and that further considerable with
drawals proceeded during the past
twelve months, the production of coal
is regarded as remarkable. The labor
supply has been kept up as far as
possible in several ways. Men who
had worked hitherto above ground or
as assistants to the regular miners
took the place of the latter when call
ed into service, so far as this could
be done and women and younger
boys were taken on to do the work
above ground. Prisoners of war have
also been employed in considerable
numbers, partly as full miners, but for
the most part as unskilled help above
and under ground.
The production of coal would have
been even greater than it was, but for
the fart that, during the December
quarter, a marked shortage of coal
cars prevented the full operation of
the mines. Owing to the scarcity of
labor and the increased cost of living
miners' wages have been advanced.
The latest figures available give 7.04
marks as the wage of the highest class
of miners for a shift of eight hours
in the great mining district around
Essen, which compares with about six
marks at the beginning of the war. In
the northern part of the coal district
wages run as high as 7.33 marks.
While nearly all commodities have
risen in price pretty sharply in Ger
many since July, 1914, the advance
in coal has been very moderate. There
have thus far been two changes in the
scale, amounting to 3 marks, or 72
cents a ton. This makeB a good show
ing oompared with England, where
Cardiff coal has risen $1.20 and Dur
ham bunker coal $2.50.
BANK OFFICIALS"
ARE ON BIG TRIP
Washington, March 8.—Officials of
the Royal Bank of Canada, the Amer
ican government was advised yester
day, are in the West Indies on a tour
which has for its purpose develop
ment of a plan to cover the islands
with branch banks.
The information which came
through official channels, said the
party assembled in Charleston, S. C.,
and sailed aboard the American yacht
Alvina. The bankers, it was said, are
trying to keep their mission secret.
The Canadian bank now has
branches throughout Porto Rico,
where it is held by the natives to-be
stronger than the national bank.
Plans have been made, it is said, to
extend branches to every important
commercial center in the Idles. The
information reaching here said the
Canadians hoped to establish their
houses firmly before American insti
tutions had a chance to enter the
field.
ORDERED RELEASED.
London, March 8.—Ulrlg Parker of
Brownsville, Texas, who has been In
terned since last June near Edinburgh
today was ordered released by the
British government.
Parker was mate of the schooner
Gypsum Empress, which called at
Greenock, where Parker went ashore,
was arrested as a German and sent to
the detention camp. The American
consul at Edinburgh satisfied himself
that Parker was an American citicen,
but eorts of the state department to
-fifffll
secure papers proving this were fruit
less.
The British authorities, however,
finally decided to release him without
documentary evidence.
DOCTOR IS DETAINED.
Seattle, Wash., March 3.—Dr. Carl
Qrelff of Everett, «fho lMt .tMs city
In December for Germany to enter
.the. Red Cross service, was taken from
the steamer United States at Kirkwall,
Scotland, January ll, and Is now de
tained in. Edinburgh castle, according
to letters Just received bjr his Mends
&
ht
^Tjpf7f*Hw*7
THEN IS TABLED M'CUMBER'S ATTEMPT
ACTION KILLED ON THE SAME VOTE
A
third of the miners w^e~«iHed into., democrats and 21 republicans-voted to table the resolution.
itnAn rtiiihnafl lr A# Mnn WQ TV
Gores effort to strengthen his resolution was orderea
in the form of a correction to make it declare the sense of
the senate to be that the death of an American on "an un
armed merchant ship" should be just cause for war.
.,• -W*«-v\
CHANGE INTERNATIONAL LAW 06IECT
Of N. D.MAN'S SUBSTITUTE HE AND
GRONNA VOTE AGAINST TABLING
Washington, March 3.—By a vote of 68 to 14, a great
er majority than they expected, the administration forces
in the senate tabled the resolution of Senator Gore, demo
crat, of Oklahoma, to warn Americans off armed ships of
the European belligerents, and thereby finally quelled in
the senate the agitation which has embarrassed President
Wilson in his submarine negotiations with Germany.
McCumber Substitute Defeated.
Gore's resolution, a substitute by Senator McCumber,
republican, of North Dakota, and also an attempt by Senar
tor Gore to strengthen his original proposal, were ail de
feated at one time on roll call on the motion of Senator
James of Kentucky, one of the administration whips, to
table them.
Administration Satisfied.
The administration victory in the senate transferred
the fight to the house. It is said at the White House that
the result in the senate is satisfactory and met with the
wishes of President Wilson. It was added that attention
now will be concentrated on the situation in the house.
Two Democrats Against It.
Gore himself voted to table his resolution. Senators
Chamberlain and O'Gorman were the only democrats to
vote against the administration. The other twelve anti
administration votes were all republicans. Forty-seven
Would Change International Law.
McCumber's proffered substitute expressed the sense
of the senate to be that the rules of international law should
be revised to meet the new conditions of war, and that
pending negotiations with foreign powers, all Americans
be requested to refrain from endangering their lives by
traveling on armed ships. After the Gore resolution cor
rection and the substitute had been tabled, McCumber
later re-introduced the same resolution, offered as a sub
stitute. This McCumber resolution would go to the cal
endar.
COULD NOT CONVINCE GERMANY OF EARNESTNESS.
President Wilson's position on the International situation, as re
vealed further today, is that he had told congressional leaders It was
months after the resignation of former Secretary Bryan before the
United States could convince Germany that this nation is In earnest In
its position on submarine warfare.
HOW THEY VOTED.
Hie roll call cm tabling follows:
Ayes—Ashurst. Bankhead, Beckham, Brandege. Brousaard. Bnr
leigh. Chilton, Clark of Wyoming. Clarke or Arkansas. Colt. Culbertsoo,
Curtis, Dillingham. Dupont, Fletcher, Gore. Harding. Hardwlck,
Hitchcock. Hollis, Hughes, Hustings, James. Johnson of Maine. John
son of South Dakota. Kern. Lane, Lee of Maryland, Lewis, Lodge, Mo
Lean. Martin. Martlne, Myers. Nelson, Newlands, Oliver. Overman,
Owen, Page, Phelan, Ptttman. Polndexter. Pomerene, Randsdell. Redd,
Shafrotli, Shcppard, Shields, Simmons. Smith of Arizona, Smith of
Georgia. Smith of Maryland, Smith of Michigan. Smith of South Caro
lina. Sterling, Stone. Swanson. Thomas. Thomason, Tillman, Under
wood, Vardaman, Wadswortli, Walsh, Warren. Weeks, Williams. Total
68*
Nays—Borah. Chamberlain. CI a pp. Cummins, Fall. GalUnger.
Gronna, Jones. LaFollette, McCumber, Norris, O'Gorman, Shermaa,
Works. Total 14.
SMOOT EXCUSED FROM VOTING.
During the roll call. Senator Smoot, republican, asked to be ex
cused from voting, because he was not able to vote direct on the res
olution. Borah, republican, objected, hut the senate voted to excuse
Smoot. When Stone's name was called he arose to explain that Sauls
bury, democrat, was absent on account of illness. Stone said If present.
Saulsbury would have voted on the original resolution.
"I demand the regular order." declared Borah. In the confusion.
Borah misunderstood Stone when he added, "very well, on this resolu
tion."
"If this senate is going to be gagged, the senator from Missouri will
be beggared with the rest of us," Borah shouted.
When order was restored, Stone explained that "on this resota»
tton, I vote aye."
UNCERTAINTY WHEN ROLL CALL BEGAN.
"Hiere was some uncertainty among the senators as to the status of
the various resolutions, when the roll call had begun. It was explained
that Senator Jones had moved to lay not only the Gore warning resolu
tion but also the so-called corrected resolution on the table. It was
necessary then for the senators to express themselves as to warning,
and also on the question of the killing of Americans on unwarned mer
chantmen as cause for war. In one vote. For that reason Gore voted to
table, because he did not favor his own correction, and had Intro
duced It merely to get the expression of the senate on that Issue.
GORE'S RESOLUTION.
Hie text of Gore's resolution to his original resolution, which was
tallied with the warning resolution, follows:
"Resolved, that It be the sense of the senate, the house of npie
sentatlvea concurring, that the sinking by a German submarine with
out notice- or warning of an armed merchant vessel of her
enemy, resulting In the death of a dttsen of the United States, would
constitute a just and suflident cause of war between the United gtttw
and the Cumin empire."
Several senators explained that doubt over the form of the
Hon was responsible for the character of the vote as few
ed to vote an the question regarding cause for
HOUSE LEADERS AT WORK.
While the senate was voting, house leadws were work
no doubt that the administration victory in the senate Is
solidify sentiment In the house, and liadtw look tor so
develo|MMats there.
Immediately after the vote In the sen
read a stal—Mwit mylng he felt It highly
slon In Germany Is that the country and
Prerident Wflson should be removed, and
the Gore isolation.
MUffF UNDERSTAND COUNTRY STANDS A8 A UNIT.
"It is of the lilgirwl Importance," said he, "that all
stand that on any question of the rights of the
EVENING
EDITION
SENATE
•H
til
IS
J,
QUMIO
