UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1916
NUMBER 157
k
J
m
lr
hr
MARTIN EXPELLED:
CALLEDjNEXCUSABLE
President Hill and Committee
&oi Deans Take Final Action
"in Case Jof, Lamar, Mo.,
Senior'in Arts.
EDITOR FAILED
TO GIVE PROOF
Dismissal Recommended by
Student Senate and Discip
line Committee, on Com
plaint of Persons Accused
Walter Clare Martin, editor of the
Research, was dismissed from the
University of Missouri jesterday af
rternoon by the Committee of Deans,
for "reckless and inexcusable publi
cation of defamatory charge, against
fellow students."
On this charge he was first sum
moned before the Student Senate, a
representative court elected by the
students of the various divisions of
the University from among their own
number, for the purpose of assisting
in the enforcement of University dis
cipline This court of first instance
found him guilty of the charges pre
ferred and called for a public retrac
tion on hi"? part or, failing in this, his
dismissal from the Universlty
Upon the recommendation of the
Discipline Commi'tee Mr Martin was
again given an opportunity to sub
stantiate his charge- before the Stu
dent Senate. His failure to meet tills
requirement again carried with it a
recommendation for his expulsion
from the University
President Hill and the Committee
of Deans then requested him to sub
mit ills evidence to that bod The
president and deans considered the
evidence offered by Mr Martin and
found that the oftense was clearly es
tablished of "reckless and inexcusa
ble publication of defamatorj
charge, against fellow students."
"Of ino'i of the charges no proor
whatever was oftertd, none of them
has been to unj extent establish! d " a
statement by the committee said
The verdict of each successive court
was unanimous.
Was Senior in Arts,
Walter C. Martin was until his dis
missal a senior in the College of Ans
and Science. His home is at Lamar,
Mo He is a debater, and twice won
the $100 Field prize for the best poem
by an undergraduate.
Last November when the Research
first appeared it vus generally un
derstood on the campus hat Martin
was the editor, al hough the paper
was published anonmously. In
the second (Januarj) issue Martin ac
knovvbdgtd editorship of the paper.
The first issue of the Research con
tained an attack on the system of inter-collegiate
athletics. The second
issue, publication of which led to Mar
tin's dismissal, dealt mainly vvitli col
lege fraternities, particularly the
chapters here.
Martin alleged immoral conduct on
the part of various individuals and or
ganized immorality in several fra
ternities. These charges by the editor
were made the basis of a complaint
filed with the Student Senate by those
accused. Since then the "Martin
case" has been the leading topic of
discussion on the camjms.
On Februarj 3 .Martin was summon
ed to appear before the Student Sen
ate and submit proof of the charges
he had published. The senate is a
body elected by the students "to rep
present the students in all cases of
discipline that may arise from the
violation of the rules and regulations
pertaining to student conduct, and.,
to try all cases referred to it by the
faculty or Discipline Committee and
all violations of the rules laid down
by the student body." These jiowers
are delegated to the senate by the
University faculty. Martin failed ito
answer the summons.
Declined (u Present Evidence.
Again on February 10 Martin was
summoned to appear before the sen
ate to answer further complaints. He
appeared, but declined to present his
evidence, saving that the Senai'e was
a prejudiced body, inasmucl as a
number of its members were fratern
ity men.
The senate made an investigation
and declared Martin guilty of having
Published false and calumnious state
ments, and asked that he be required
the issuance of the Research. If
he failed to do this, the senate recom
mended that lie be expelled from the
University.
Upon the recommendation of the
Discipline Committee, Martin was
again given an opportunity to sub
stantiate lils charges before the sen
ate. Again he failed to do so and
again the senate recommended his ex
pulsion, last, Martin was requested
to lay before ihe president and the
Committee of Deans the facts avail
able, since be had declared "that lie
had carefully investigated the sources
of information emplojed bj his paper
and that clear and substantial evi
ileiiie upon the validity of these
sounes could be brought forward up
on i'h proper occasion "
Deans Consider Cum-.
The president and deans coiisidt'i
it th. evidence offered bv Martin and
found that "the offense was dearlj
established of a re Mess and inex
disable publication of defam itor.v
GIVE JUDGES MORE
POWER,JAMESURGES
Dean of Law School Says
They Are Hampered by
Unyielding Rules.
CHANGES ARE SLOW
Halter ('. Martin.
charges against fellow students, in
proof of most of vvhiili no evideme
lias been submitted ana none of which
lias been established."
A complicating feature of the Mar
i in case, though It had nothing to do
with the matter of disciplining him,
was the attack made upon him on the
night of Febrnar.v in, when, accord
ing to his story, be was seized bj four
men and taken about a mile east of
town in an automobile.
No evidence of the identity of Mar
tin's assaiianis has been obtained
The fraternities recently passed res
olutions disclaiming any part in Ihe
attack and offering a leward of $"u
for proof of the guilt person:.
Improvements Come Only
as People Dictate Them
Through Legislators.
That Hid legislature .mil the people
should give more power to the judges
in the trial of court cases was one of
the points developed bj Dean J'ldou
It James of the S hool of Law in
his Itctureat the I'niversitj Assembly
last night on "The Changing Iiw."
"Procedure of law lias been chang
ed fiom trial by court and jury to
trial by counsel and jury with the
judgo looking on," he said "Judges
should have more power in passing
upon the evidence that is introduced.
We need more judges and fewer
courts
In 'I lie Hands of 'Ihe People.
"Law is not fossilized," said Dean
James "It is a changing, living
force Tiie same forces operate on
law and society alike. Today it is im
possible to think of society at a stand-
VAN GENT ACCEPTS
OFFER FROM TEXAS U.
Basketball Coach Will Have
Charge of the Longhorn
Athletic Teams.
A SALARY OF 52,500
Resignation Here Effective
September 1 Brewer Sorry
to Lose Him.
t" n Van (lent, coach of basketball
and freshman football at the Univer
sity of Missouri, le.sigmd his posi
(ion here today to accept a position
as head coach at Texas University
Ihe resignation is to take elfect Sep
tember 1.
"Mr Van Cent feels that he will
have a better opportunity to make
good a." Texas," said Director Ches
ter U Brewer this morning. "He
will be In full charge of football, track
and basketball there, and will natural
ly have better opportunities than he
has here at Missouri."
While the Texas offer carries vvitli
it a salary of $2,500, a considerable
advance over Van Gent's salary here,
it is the, general opinion thai he is
accepting more to advance his stand
ing as a coach than to get the in
THE WEATHER.
Tor Columbia and Mcinlty: Fair, con
tinued cold tonight, temperature S or 10
above zero. Saturday fair and somewhat
warmer.
For Missouri: Fair tonight, colder south,
east and eist central portions, not so ioId
northwest portion. Saturday filr and
warmir.
Weather Condition,
rhe low pressure wive that was In the
Itlo (.ramie yesterday has moved out to
the .Vtnntle. and nunpira tn iw. tiw. in..
t .i, i " . .! : ."v "- "
.. me series. . weii-iorinul high pressure
aie covers nil territory between the
..i-i.,--, ju .ippancmin range this morn-
ng, attended by dear skip, and unusually
low teiupenture for the time of the year
I-lst of the MIssUslrnit Ttirof tt.u .,.....
still Is unsettled with rain and snow; the
.!-1 suun- eienus irom Missouri eit
ward along the Ohio.
It I is moderited Roniewhit along the
northt m lionkr, bur the weither Is much
i older In .elinski and southward to Cen
tral r h, win re there N -i hard freeze
Zero conditions estuid Into Kmsas
In Columbia fiir weather will previll
onr Mturdav. It will be cold tonight
but tempi ritnre will rUe to ibove the
f reezlng point Siturday
I ocal ltatu.
Ihe highest temperature In ('..luuibla
testerilar w is .. and the l.rnist list night
Was H, precipit itlon. .n, nlitUe humldltv
- in vesierdaj, Tn jut ivnt A jear
I go vtMenliy the highest temperitiire was
U Mi. I Ihe lowest , IireUliitUioil. IM
The Vliuanar.
Mm rose lodn, i; :ri in sun sis
i; in p 111
Muoii rises ; 11 a tn
111.
SENATE.6B-14.STANDS
WITH PRESIDENT IN
ANTI-WARNING.POLICY
Gore Resolution Tabled Amid
Scenes Unequaled in Cham
ber Since Those of Spanish
American War.
STONE AND REED
ON WILSON'S SIDE
leiiiperaliires 'lodaj.
MARTIN TO STAY HERE
He's Preparing Another Re
search to Be Issued in
Two Weeks.
Walter C. Martin paused as he filled
his fountain pen In the basement of
Academic Hall. He had just been In
formed that he had been dismissed
from the University.
"Will I remain here?" he mused in
response to a question. "Well, jes, I
probably shall. Of course I shall be
free to go wherever I want to, but as
I am preparing another issue of the
Research I probably bhall stay here,
where I can have the advantages of
the library. The next issue of the Re
search will be ready for distribution
in about two weeks."
Martin was asked what would be
published in the next issue.
"The question of fraternities will be
further developed," he said. "Some of
the fellows (meaning his associates)
want to take up the question of haz
ing." When seen this morning Martin had
not been officially notified of his ex
pulsion. When a reporter told him
about the action of the Committee of
Deans, he said It was the first time he
had heard of it.
"I am going to stay here as long as
I can," he said, "for the longer they
delay notif) Ing me, the more classes I
can attend I especially enjoy Profes
sor Veblens lectures. One of my
greatest worries attendant upon my
kidnaping was the fact that some of
his lectures were in ainote-book which
I lost. I was afraid I would not find
the book."
Then Martin started to leave He
didn't want to hurry away, but it was
nearly ten minutes past 10 o'clock and
he had a class in Cultural Anthropology.
Fussiuir tf tuiiirt ui uviuij i niuuu- . o " - -- -
still, so must we think of law as con- crease in salary
stantly changing To our ancestors. U has been pretty generally be
law was unchangeable, it was a relig- jlieved hero for some time that Van
ous duty performed according to'CJent would accept the offer he re
the wishes of the Deity. To gojeeived soon after ChrisVmas, but, ac
against the Cods was unthought of. (cording to Director Brewer, he felt
"Today, law is in the hands of onr that it would be better for the basket
legislators and thej in turn are elect- i'II team if he waited until after the
ed by the people Therefore all the last game before announcing his de
difficulties are in the hands of thejeision.
people. To these legislators we turn The joung basketball coach has!
for the changing law, we turn for' been unusually popular with the bas-
quick changes, only to find that this I Kerball equad and his work lias Had
government of ours moves slowly , grcat deal to do vvitli the brilliant
"Too much stress is laid upon theTiger basketball season just complet
desire to protect individuals. Courts !
aro handicapped by ithe unj 'elding "Wp consider him a strong, likable
laws forced upon them bv the legisla- ' ''"" said Mr. Brewer," and we are
tors. The people are ultimatelj lo , '"'Khty sorry to lose him. He is
blame The legislators and the po- popular and has done a great deal to
pie should Rive the judges more pow- improve athletics at Missouri"
er Courts are bound too much by' Van Gent came to Columbia aftei
preceding decisions We must have I "Is graduation from Wisconsin two
some continuity of poliej, but .not to J'lr'' ago
such an extent as at present "
(lies Xovv Laws. ' I'lOXEER 3IISS0URIAN DIES HERE
Dean James called attention to the
constant changes and advancment of
our laws, as shown by the recently
. a. in . u 11 a. tn ... 14
8 a. m.. .11 12 m.. . .16
9 am. .12 1 p. m. .. j;
0 a. m 13 2 p. m 17
THE CALENDAR.
Mircli r "The Test of Lovalty." public
lecture by ISabbl Louis liernsteln of
St. Joseph, under auspices of the
Jewish Student Congregation, Y. M.
C. A. Auditorium, 7.30 p. m.
Vlaieh .7 Cloce of . XV. C A. Jubilee cele
britlon. Dr. J VV. Hudson will
speak on "The ISeligion of Todiy's
World," University Auditorium, 4
p. m.
Fight is All Over in Ten
Minutes and Forty Seconds;
Missouri Senior Senator
Center of Uproar.
Y. iv.
.u. u
t. A. 10 HIVE HAMU'ET
W. B. Bryant, 84 Years Old, Was
Father of Mrs. F. S. Lonsdale.
W.iltnr Tl ttrinnr fil ipnrs nld riled
passed criminal laws with their svs- , , , . .. . ., ,' .
, J .of paraljsis at the home of his daugh-
leiu ui jiiteiiui' ttuu paiuu cuuns. '
the labor and the public health and j
safety laws
I Fifth street, at 2 o'clock this morning.
IMr Tin ant hml lidpn n roairlont nf
uur legal (ysreiu is comparative! r, , , , , ,- . j .
. v Columbia since 1907. havinc come to
voting It is only a short time since i,., ... ... ,, , ,,
7 ..... this city from Ashley, Mo , to make his
our jury was merely a bo-c of wit-,' ' ., .,...
nesses. The changes brought in the ... . . . . " , ,
last fifty jears have all been for the ,., ,. . , , . . .
, . . . . ... , mi'. 1831, -Mr. Brjant went to Ashley
bost interests of the people. The... .. . . , T ,or, .
changes come slowly but surelv To, ....... , ,
establish the best legal svstem. inani.. ,. , ' . . ,,
. . ., . .,.,,. . .''-' as the father of six children,
must give up his Individual interests I,. , , . , . '
, .. , , ,, ,, .. . . three of whom. Mrs F. S. Lonsda e of
for the social welfaie When thi, ... ' . - ,, .
, , ... ... .' Columbia, and Mrs. O. H. Tiede and
is done, laws that are flexible andi. ' . ...
, . , , .. , . ... , J K Brjant of Kansas City, survive
changeable to the changing ideals of-.. "
the people will be established" ' , ,,,...,, ...
The funeral will beheld at the home
HOTEL .SUBSCniHEKS TO MEET 0t Mrs- ns-lale at 9:30 o'clock to-
morrow morning. Tiie services will
be conducted by the Rev. M. A. Hart
of the Christian Church. The body will
to
be taken to Ashley for burial.
A sister-in-law of Mr. Bryant, Mrs.
E. M. Brjant, died two weeks ago, at
the home of Mrs. Lonsdale. Mrs. Brj
ant was S7 j ears old.
Mill Choose Executive Comniillee
Take Charge of l'lans.
A mass meeting of the subscribers
to the bonus fund for the Daniel Boone
Tavern will be called promptly at 7:30
o'clock this evening byE W Stephens,
chairman
"We aro very anxious that every .....,.,...
subscriber should be present," said C. j
O. Hanes, secretary of the Commercial H'neincnt Hejrun at Ypres (.'ermniis
Club "The meeting will be earlj-, so Take Doiiiiiimont.
that those who have other engage- '? United Tress.
ments will be able to meet them." LONDON, March 3. The British
An executive committee will be rorcPS beSan an offensive movement
Stephens and Christian Mill
Join In Jubilee Toasts.
The V. W C. A. cabinets of the
University and S'ephens and Chris
tian colleges will celebrate the fiftieth
anniversary of the founding of the
national association by a dinner at
Harris' at G o'clock this evening. Miss
Kate Child will be toastmaster. The
tatsts will be as follows: "Miss Grace
Dodge," Miss Margaret Mumford:
"What the Jubilee Has Meant to Me,"
Miss Sarah Anderson: "After the Ju
Uilee What! ' Miss l.ucile Thatch
er. Between courses the represen
tatives of eacli school will sing their
school song.
The Tniversitj V. W. C. A. cabinet
Is composed of Misses Kate Child.
Elizabeth Whiteford, I.ucy Barnard,
Helen I.eaphart, Constance Latshaw,
Jewel Palmer, Bertha Daniel, Elta
Wood, Clara Pennington, Mary E.
McDaniel, Jessie Hill, Margaret Mum
ford, Ruth Flowerree and Dcra Du-lanev-,
Muriel Mattocks.. Pearl Rags
dale and Margaret Million and Mrs
H. T. New Ion.
The Christian College cabinet is
composed of Misses Reba Raines,
Maurine McDaniel, Iiura Owens,
Sarali Morris, Frances Drescher, Lu
cile Benhan and l.ucile Thatcher and
Mrs. Mabel O. Irwin.
The members of the Stephens Col
lege Y. W. C. A. are: Misses I.elia
Parkins, Ruby Lejburn, Bernice Al
len, Juliet Alirens, Marian (liesslng.
Hildred Williams, Ellis Deter, Oale
Kendrick, Pauline Reeves, Catherine
Campbell and Alva Marie Claj
liy Uulted I'resi
WASHINGTON, March 3. The Sen
ate formally gave notico : the world
todaj that it will stanl behind Presi
d"t,t Wilson and his i oIMet, when
it vrtnl CS to 14, to tabic the resolu
tion of .Senator Gore warniui; Ameri
cang not to travel on armed mer
chantmen. ,Amid cheers which have not been
equalled since the days of the Span
ish-American war, the Senate acted
as it had been requested hv the President,
Senators Stone and Reed of Mis
souri voted with the supporters of
the administration. It was just ten
minutes and forty seconds trom the
time the fight began on the floor uitil
the vote was taken ending the discus
sion of the affair
Senator Stone tried to explain the
absence "f Senator "aulsbury of D' le
ware. Senator H"raa jumped to his
feet, interrupting the Missourian, and
said that if one person was to be gag
ged all must After a great uproar,
the sena'or from Missouri surrender
ed by voti'ig aye.
MISS WIIAMEL HEnS Y. W. . A.
.11. lT. (!Irl Hear Dr. C. A. Ellwood
After Annual Election.
Miss Marj' McDaniel was elected
president of the University Y. W. C.
A. at its annual election jesterday af
ternoon The other officers are:
Vice-president, Miss Dera Dulaney:
treasurer, Miss Hazel Hoffman, re
cording secretarj'. Miss Mary Reese,
Commiitee chairmen will b appointed
by the president.
After the election Dr. Charles A.
Ellwood gave a talk on "Home Mis
sions from a Sociological Viewpoint."
Doctor Ellwood stressed the need of
home missions.
"It is ofion very easy to bo in
fluenced by the excitement and thrills
which attend missionarj- work in the
foreign field," ho said, "and it Isn't
so easy to work quietly at home with
out the praLse that goes vvitli Ihe for
eign missionary."
RICHARD ROM EX RCTRIED TODAY
TEACHERS' EXAMINATIONS HELD
IX EW 0FFESIVE
Ratcliii'e Lecture Cancelled.
S. K. Ratcliffe. secretarj of the
British Sociological Society, who was
scheduled to speak In the Y. M. C. A.
Auditorium at 7 o'clock this evening.
did not arrive in Columbia today,
having missed his railroad connec-
to make a public apologv in the I'nl- tions. The lecture has therefore been
vereity Missourian and to discontinue cancelled.
chosen to take charge of the plans and
specifications and to do whatever else
is necessarv to eel the enternrlse
started A treasurer will also beifensi;e aIonS u'e Verdun front
elected
at Ypres today, following a heavy
bombardment of the German lines.
The Germans have opened a new of-
Y. M. C. A. I Elect IHrcelors.
An election to name eight student
members for the board of directors of
the Y M C A. will be held Saturday,
March 11 Nominations for the officers
must be in the hands of Arthur Emig,
president of the Y M C. A , bj Mon-
daj March C All members of the Y
M C A. are eligible to vote.
I!y United I'resa
BERLIN, .March 3. The Geriinn
forces today captured the Trench vil
lage of Douaumont, which is located
southwest of the fort bearing that
name .taking 1,000 French soldiers in
the attack. Dispatches from Paris
admit the loss.
JiiIiii X. Taj lor Sues on Xnfe.
John N. Taj lor today filed suit
against Iawrence Bowser of the Bow-
,...,,, ... ser Taxicab Company for payment ol
hmlg to Address Alpha Zela PI. ,the alance alIeget0 be due on a
"Objective Socioiogj" Is the subject note of fCOO. on which S100 has been
of a paper to be read tonight by paid.
Arthur S. Emig before Alpha Zeta Pi, t
honorary social science society, which Daughter for F. L. Ilnrniss.
will meet at S o'clock at the Y. M. C.I A daughter. Cora Helen, was born
A building, a general discussion of to Mr and Mrs. Frank L. Burruss,
the subject will follow the reading of, of Garj-, Ind . Februarj' 29. Mr. Bur
the paper lruss ia an aiumnus of the University.
Eight From Columbia Amonir 33 Try
iiifr for Certificates.
The Boone County teachers' exami
nations are being held in the Circuit
Court room today and will continue to
morrow. Thirtj--five persons are tak
ing the examinations. Eight are from
Columbia. Hallsvilie, with six, has the
next largest representation. George T
Porter, county superintendent of
schools, has charge of the examina
tions. The joungest person applying for a
certificate is Herbert Rice, 15 j-ears
old, of Ashland. Herbert has been a
student in the Ashland High School
and is appljing for a third-grade cer
tificate. The oldest person competing
in the examinations Is Miss Annie
Marshall of Ciajton. She is 56 j-ears
old. Miss Marshall now holds a third
grade certificate but Is applying for a
second-grade this week.
Second-grade certificates are the
most sought for, seventeen of the thlr-tj'-five
appljing for this kind. Four
teen want third-grade certificates,
while only four are asking for first
grade. Three students In the University are
taking the examinations. They are:
II. R. Baker of Kennett. Dunklin
County; Misses Florence Chapman
and Grace L. Bell, both of Louisiana.
To Give Lecture Recital.
Prof.W. II. Pommer will give a lec
ture recital on the St Louis Sym
phony Orchestra program at 4 30
o'clock Monday afternoon In his class
room, third floor of Academic Hall.
He will be assisted by Miss Fanny
May Ross and Basil Gauntlett of
Stephens College.
Centralla Man, 21 Years Old, Was Vic
tint of Tuberculosis.
The funeral of Richard Bowen, 2t
j ears old, who died at his home at
Centralla Wednesday, was held at 3
o'clock this afternoon at the Methodist
church in Centralla.
Mr. Bowen had been ill of tubercu
losis for eighteen months, and for a
j ear had been confined In the state
sanitarium for tubercular patients at
Mount Vernon. He was a son of Mr.
and Mrs. J. D. Bowen. Two years ago
he married Miss Mary Dreps.
The pallbearers were Thomas,
Harry and Eiza Daniels, Jewell Price,
Joe Paxton and Austin Brown, all of
Columbia, former schoolmates of Mr.
Bowen.
Two other deaths occurred In Cen-
tralia Wednesday night and Thursdaj-,
making a total of three deaths In that
city within a space of twenty-four
hours. Drurj- Mayes, 78 years old.
died Wednesday night, and Ed Mc-
Bride, 40 jears old, died jesterday.
.1. R. Powell Hark From Iowa.
J. B. Powell, instructor of advertis
ing In the School of Journalism, re
turned from a three-day trip in Iowa
jesterday afternoon. Mr. Powell vis
ited Waterloo and Des Moines. He
spoke before the members off the
Iowa Retail Lumbermen's Association
on "Better Advertising" In Waterloo
Tuesday afternoon. While in Des
Moines he visited the staff of the Mer
chants' Trade Journal.
Menorah Society to Meet
There will o a meeting of the Men
orah Society tomorrow night In Room
220, Academic Hall. The topic will
be "The Zionlstlc Influences In the
Middle Ages."
It.
&.
n.
