WEEKLY TRIBUNE
THE TRIBUNE'S CIRCULA.
TION IS THE LARGEST LN
CAPE GIRARDEAU. : : :
THE TRIBUNE COVERS
SOUTHEAST MISSOURI
LIKE THE DEW. t t : :
NEWSPAPER THAT PRINTS ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT AND PRINTS IT FIRST
VOL. XV. AND THE CAPE COUNTY HERALD, CAPE GIRARDEAU, MISSOURI, MARCH 3, 1916.
NUMBER 8.
rrrv
TWO FRENCHMEN
LEAVES COLLEGE
TO JOIN COLORS
Auguste and Jean Masala,
Father and Son, to Board
Ship at New Orleans.
BOV ANXIOUS TO JOIN
2 BROTHERS IN ARMY
Both Worked Year at St. Vincent's
College Father Is Expert
Mechanic.
Auguste Masala arul his son, Jean
Masala, who for the last year have
been employed at St. Vincent's College,
yesterday afternoon departed for New
Orleans on their way to join the colors
of the French army.
Before their departure, the elder
Masala told Father Patrick Levm of
the college, that he and his r.on exact
ed to confer with the French consul vX
New Orleans before taking prFa?-
for France, the younger man's native
soil.
Jean Masala recently just turned 18
years and since his birthday, he has
been anxious to return to France to
join the army. Eighteen is the age
in France when the men are consider
ed of military age and are first called i
to the colors.
Several wncks ago, however, the
French government sent out the call
for boys of 17 years. Young Masala
when he had become of an age ready
for the army service under normal con
ditions, insisted to his father that they
return to their home in Marseilles.
The father is between 50 and 55
years old and past military son-ice
age. He is a skilled mechanic an.1
when a younger man, worked at boiler
muk
He told Father Leva", that h: in
tended to return to Marseilles to offer
his services as a mechanic. There is
a great demand in France for me
chanics, he declared, and he w ill work
where the government sends him. Ma
sala, himself is a native Italian. For
many years, however, he lived in Mar
seilles, in the southern part of France.
He married a French woman and his
wife together with several daughters
row live in Marseilles.
Masala has two sons in the French
army now. He and his youngest son,
Jean, came to thp United States more
than a year ago as pioneers of the
family.
Jean has been working as a janitor
at th? college, parochial school and
church on South Spanish street. He
likewise has been doing other odd
jobs about the place.
His father has acted as an all
around mechanic at the college
grounds and has been successful in
making repairs requiring expert
workmanship. This summer, he had
announced to the priests, before he
and his son determined to sail for
France, he wanted to try his hand at
gardening at the college grounds.
The older man, since his arrival in
the United States, was slow to learn
the English or American language,
and as a consequence, he became
known to but few people in the Cape.
The younger man, however, had a
large circle of friends here.
Yesterday before their departure,
the two men went around to several
of their mutual friends in the Cape to
say farewell. Among those they
greeted was Col. Matt Morrison, whom
both knew intimately.
J. J. HOBBS MARRIES.
News Stand Manager and Minnie
West over Are Wed at Jackson.
James J. Hobbs, manager of the
news and confectionery stand at the
Frisco depot, and Minnie Westover of
South Sprigg street, were married last
night at Jackson.
The couple motored to Jackson,
where they obtained their license from
Recorder Siemers and had Justice of
the Peace John Putz prform the cere
mony. INSURANCE ON A DEAD MAN.
Harrison, Ark., March 1. G. H.
Keefe, a veterinary surgeon of this
place, is carrying insurance on a dead
man.
Keefe is the owner of a petrified
man, which he has rented out in dif
ferent parts of the state for 50 per
month. He says the mummy was
found near Marquette, Wis., and has
been in the National Museum.
DEFECTIVE WIRE
BURNS TRUCK ON
JACKSON ROAD
A. H. Mueller's Car Is Re
duced to Ruins On Way to
County Seat.
OIL TANK IS SHOT
TO AVOID EXPLOSION
Clarence Pott Punctures Can On
Sixth Trial-Blaze Seen
Miles.
The big automobile truck, belonging
to the A. H. Mueller meat market,
in the Cap?, was burned on Four Mile
Hill, on its way to Jackson yesterday
morning. A defect in the wiring, it
i.? believed, caused the machine to ig-
I r.it- and a moment later it was en-
gulft?d in flames.
Hec;:u:-p of the fact that no water
was R-.ar. the machin? was soon reduc
ed to ruins. The blaze was spectacu
lar, due to it being elevated above the
surrounding territory.
Clarence Pott, who was demonstrat
ing a Ford car to August Krutzsch, of
the Dempsey Grocer Company, reach
ed the scene w hile the Mueller car was
in flames. Th" big gasoline tank of
the burning machine remained intact
while the flames climbed skyward be
side it.
Fearing an explosion, which might
prove disastrous to Pott and Krutzsch,
th-? former asked permission to shoot
a hole in the tank and liberate the oil.
Piiil Steck, who was in charge of the
Mueller car, granted the request, and
Pott gave a bird's eye view of an Ital
ian charge by Alpine climbers.
He drew his trusted six-shooter
from his right hip pocket and opened
fire. The bullet did not touch the tar
get. He fired again and again. The
sixth, or last cartridge, struck the gas
oline tank. The. oil. squirted high in
the air, but there was no explosion.
Steck was on his way to Jackson
for meat for the Cape Girardeau
shops. He said the car was working
until it caught fire. He was driving
at a moderate rate of speed and was
near the top of the hill when he de
tected the odor of burning wood. He
stopped the car to investigate. As he
climbed out, the flames broke through
the bottom of the car and began to
burn with fury. Within a few mo
ments the car was obscured by the
blaze.
Realizing that he was powerless to
combat the fire, he stepped a few
paces away so that he would not be in
jured in the event the tank exploded.
He returned to this city with Pott and
Krutzsch after his machine had been
lestroyed.
WILLIAM F. BERGMANS" IS
CHOSEN LEADER OF ELKS
Succ.eds J. W. Phillips as Exalted
Rluer at Annual Election Sec
retary Dempsey Makes
Report.
William F. Bergmann was elected
Exalted Ruler of the Eiks Club last
night to succeed J. W. Phillips, whose
term expired. T. M. Dempsey was
chosen secretary and Al H. Mueller,
treasurer.
The annual election was followed by
a feast, which was served in the club's
dining room.
Mr. Dempsey, who was chosen tem
porary secretary to succeed John F.
Lilly, who resigned a few weeks ago,
presented a report for the past year. It
showed a decided improvement over
the report made one year ago.
Secretary Dempsey, who is making
a campaign for new members, has
been remarkably successful in the few
weeks that he has been in charge. He
stated last night that plans were being
considered for a gymnasium which will
be installed in the club building with
in a short t:me.
It will be impossible to have a swim
ming pool in the club, because the
basement is now on the level with the
sewer, To excavate to a greater
depth, which would be necessary for a
pool, would take the tank below the
sewer, thus eliminating the drain.
KING FERDINAND
VISITING
TOMB
Amsterdam, March 1. A dispatch
' received here from Vienna says that
King Ferdinand of Bulgaria and his
two sons, Frince Boris and Prince
i Cyrille, have gone to Coburj? to visit
Ithe tomb of the King's parents.
United States Army Officer Instructing High
School Pupils In Matters Of The War
fi riff- -f imJ W-'- .. M-w' 4
r. tffltaf 4 " fJ.
flfr irVnriV ruTri-fi'irfrftrrnT-'mnul -iflf iriiif-.m f
Lieutenant Steever, U. S. A., assigned from Fort My er,
Washington. The boys are reeeivins object lessons from a
SALESMAN TO WED
CAPE GIRL TODAY
Sylvia Romine and Martin Nel
son Will Have Ceremony
This Afternoon.
That Miss Sylvia Romine, former
secretary at the Pr.rk Auto Company,
and Martin Xelson, well known travel
ing salesman for s. Kansas City medi
cine and drug concern, will be married
-oday, last night became known.
The couple will obtain their license?
at noon today and the marraige cere
.r.ony v. ill be performed at 4 o'clock
.his afternoon. Efforts were made to
keep the wedding a. secret and their
t'riewds well as themsehres-ertmd
to discui:s it.
Miss Romine resides with Miss Lau
ra Igle at BellcVue street. She
lias lived with Miss Igle nearly all her
iife. She formerly was an operator
for the telephone company.
Mr. Nelson has been making the
Cape his headquarters for more than a
year and while he is not on the road
he makes his home at the Idan-Ha ho-
tsl. lis arrived in the Cape from a
road trip yesterday morning and as
sisted in making the arrangements fcr
the nuptials today.
It is said the couple will make thir
home in the Capo after their marriage,
for Mr. Xelson spends most of his
time off the road here. Mr. Nelson i.
34 years old and Miss Romine is 22.
HOUCK GIBONEY IS SICK.
Is Recovering From Attack of Grip
and Threatened Pneumonia.
Houck Giboney, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Giboney of the Bloomfield road,
i.-? seriously ill at the home of his fath
er, threatened with pneumonia fever
and a severe attack of grip and a
cold.
For three days his condition has
been critical, according to the state
ments of members of the family, and
last night he began to improve slow
ly and regain his strength
Young Giboney, who is 23 years old
and well known in the Cape, contracted
a severe cold several days ago which
settled on his lungs and developed into
a severe case of grip. Two days ago,
the physicians began to fight a case of
pneumonia fever which they believed
was developing from the attack cf
grip and cold.
FAILED TO EQUAL TELL'S SHOT.
Fri.nd of Amateur Marksman ILu
Furrough Plowed in His Scalp.
Clabar, Cal., March 1. Frank Shaf
fer and Ben Bronscon attempted to
reproduce the historic William Tell
act here. The two had witnessed an
exhibition of target shooting by an
expert marksman. This fired the ima
gination of Shaffer to such an extent
that he asesrted his ability to outdo
the work of the expert.
Bronscon had such faith in the
prowess of his friend that he volun
teered to balance an acorn on his head,
giving Shaffer permission to shoot at
the object with his trusty rifle. But
the marksman aimed too low and the
leaden misslc plowed through the curly
locks of the human target bearer, leav
ing a crimson scar on the scalp.
- T - - iVrt. - aft.ii. Urn rfi in . , i
rueting
VANDIVER SPMS
IN CAPE MARCH 30
Will Open Carapaigi4'or Gover
nor In Courthouse To Be
at Jackson, Mar. 31.
Siumltaneous with the formal open
ing March 30 in the Common Pleas
Court room of his campaign for the
Democratic nomination for governor,
V. D. Vandiver will resign his govern
ment position as Assistant Secretary
cf the Treasury in charge of the sub
treasury at St. Louis.
Arrangements for a big meeting of
Democrats from all ever Southeast
Missouri are being made by Cape Gir
ardeau Democrats who wish to give
Vandiver a warm political reception at
the beginning of his capaign.
Mr. Vandiver announced his inten
tion to rcpign and the date of his form
al opening in Kansas City Tuesday,
lie first planned to open in the Cape on
March 18, Saturday, but a few days
ago, he sent word to his friends here
that the affair had to be postponed.
After making his opening campaign
address in the Cape, Vandiver's second
speech will be delivered at the court
house in Jackson on the following
night, Friday, March 31. The rest of
his itinerary has not been made known
in local Democratic circles.
When the Cape contingent of Demo
crats began planning for Vandiver':?
reception, it first was suggested that
al! other Democratic candidates for
nominations be allowed to deliver shcrr
addresses at the same gathering, but
the plan has crystallized now to in
clude a strictly Vandiver program.
The Democrats working up interest
in the meeting in this section of the
state are not working as an organiza
tion, it is said, but as a group of indi
viduals. The Southeast ' Missouri
Democratic Club, organized last fall,
will net take a hand in the affair,
President Harry E. Alexander, declar
ed, because it will be the policy of
that club to await the outcome of the
primaries before coming out strongly
for the candidates.
The Cape County Central Commit
tee, likewise is not sponsoring the ses
sion, it is said. Alexander, as head of
the Democratic Club, however, has
been asked to preside as chairman at
the meeting. He would not indicate
definitely yesterday whether or not he
will serve in the place.
Mr. Vandiver. virtually is considered
a native Cape Girardeauan, and it is
because of his intimate associations
and connections in this county, that he
has chosen the Cape as the location for
his opening speech.
He was born in Southeast Missouri
and years ago became a member of
the faculty of the Normal School. He
eventually became president of the
Normal.
Subsequently, in the face of great
odds, he entered the race for Congress
and was elected to that position. He
has held the office as Assistant Secre
tary of Treasury in charge of the St.
Louis subtreasury for several years.
Democrats in Cape County are pre
paring to hold a series of township
mass meetings when delegates to a
County Convention will be chosen who
shall meet March 14 to select delegates
to the Democratic State Convention to
be held at St, Joseph, March 21.
The call for the township meetings
---" .---f.--Y---T - "i"Jirr--viYiiTyri1irrniirrriiff(i'g'itrM
cadets of the Franklyn high Bchool of
2 WOMEN FLEE TO
ESCAPE FROM FIRE
Blaze of Unknown Origin Does
$500 Damage to Mrs.
Messmer's Home.
Two women and a 12-year old boy
last night were foived to line to escape
flames that burned the home of Mrs.
Louise Messmcr at 230 North Sprig?
street. The fire, which was of un
known origin, burned out the inside of
two rooms on the south side of the
Messmer place, which is a double cot
tage, and caused a lohs estimated at
$500.
The house is occupied by Mrs. Mess
mer on "the north side and by Mrs!
H. A. Bibb, a widow, and her son,
Ralph Bibb 12 years old, on the south
side.
The Bibbs have their bedroom in
the rear part of the houe and about
11:15 o'clock last night, the boy was
awakened by the crackling of the fire
in the front room.
lie awakened his mother and cried
that there was a firo. The mother ad
monished the child to return to his
bed, but the boy a second time gave
the warning and an investigation
showed the flames eating their way
around the walls of the front room.
The alarm was sounded for Mrs. Mess
emr and the occupants of the house
fled to the home of Al Brinkopf at 229
Xoith Sprigg street.
The fire department was summoned
and shortly after midnight the blaze
-as under control.
The flames and water together de
stroyed a piano in the front room on
the Bibb side of the house, as well as
a bed and a davenport. Mrs. Bibb de
clared she carried insurance on her
furnishings and the house was covered
by $1000 insurance.
The two women and child last night
remained at the Brinkopf home.
Files bankruptcy petition.
Percy H. Anders, Dunklin County
Farmer. Lists Assets at $3710.
Tercy H. Anders, a farmer living
near Campbell in Dunklin County, yes
terday filed a voluntary petition in
bankruptcy in the United States Dis
trict Court which was referred to Re
feree O. A. Knehans. Mr. Anders'
financial difficulties were caused by
failure to meet obligations created
when he signed several notes for a
brother and another relative.
In his schedule, he listed liabilities at
$3,928.54 of which $1200 was secured
b ya mortgage on a $3209 piece of real
estate. His assets are represented by
the real estate pledged and an insur-
J ance policy of $5000. His total assets
he lists at $o710.
MEETS LION ON CLIFF PATH.
San Angolo, Texas, March 1. Lee
Perry, a young ranchman r.ear here,
recently killed a monster lion on hi;;
father's ranch.
Perry met the lion on a narrow pas
sageway ar.d had to either fall down
into a canyon several hundred feet or
kill the lion. He shot as it sprang at
him, the bullet entering one of the
eyes of the lion, killing it instantly.
will be sent out by the chairman and
secretary of the Democratic Central
Committee.
CONGRESS SNU
WILSON
DEI
Stone, Clark And Kitchen, Demo
cratic Leaders, Angered at Presi
dent's Unusual Demand, May
Prevent Matter Coming To A
Vote.
HOUSE IS EXPECTED TO PASS
WARNING RESOLUTION BY 2 TO 1
Kitchen Sneers At Wilson's Policy
And Plans To Speak In Favor Of
Repudiating Nation's Chief Executive.
Washington, March 1. Congress today met President Wilson's demand
for an indorsement of his policy toward Germany with arrangements for de
lay. Leaders at the Capital tonight declared it would be .-everal days before
action on the demands of the President would be taken, if taken at all.
The day brought forth the following developments in the unparalleled
situation which confronts the governmnnt.
Hcurp leaders declared that the President's demand for a vote, whicli
will decide whether his attitude on th. submarine shall bo indorsed or repu
diated, had aggravated the situation and that opposition to his policy wa?
growing rapidly in the lower branch of Congress.
Senate leaders decided to await action by the House before precipitating
a struggle- in the upper body, although Senator Stor.e believes the Senate
would sustain the President.
Champ Clark and Senator Stone h?ld a conference this morning to go
over the situation. While neither woould discuss the President's reque.-t, it
was apparent that both leaders were displeased with his action.. Speaker
Clark has said that the resolution to warn Americans from belligerent ships
will pass in the Houe by a vote of two to or.e. He still holds to that view,
but he is using his influnece to line up new members against the President.
He win surrender the Speaker's gavel and take his place on the floor to urgt
the House to pass the v. araing it solu-tion.
Senator Stone has informed Speaker Clark and other leaders who op
pose the attitude of the President that he fears the Snat would uphold th
administration's submarine policy.
There has ben a coolness between the Pre?idt nt, S'T.ator Stone and
Champ Clark since Senator Stone wrote his famous letter to Mr. Wilson,
"expressing rrgret that he would be .-omnoiled to disagree with the Execu
tive," but the Missouri Senator is determined to stand pat on his announced
plans.
According to those who are in a position to understand the attitude of
Congress, the Houre will bring about the repudiation of the Wilson policy.
Tlie President requested immediate action by the House, but it is understood
that Senator Stone, Champ Clark and Floor Leader Kitchen mapped out
today's program before Congress convened.
Mr. Kitchen today referred ironically to President Wilson's power over
Congress, and then declared that the House was for the McLemore resolu
tion, which is the same as Senator Gore proposes to present to the Senate.
The resolutions warn Americans to stay off armed ships. Mr. Kitchen who
is the Democratic leader on the floor,indorses the attitude taken by Speaker
Clark. Both are bitterly against the Wilson policy and each has announced
that he will make a lengthy speech opposing an indorsement of the President
London, March 1. Two steamships
were sunk today, the first under the
German decree regarding the sinking
of armed merchantmen without warn
ing, which went into effect last mid
night. The British censorship has
been tightened and only the meager
details are available.
The Britsh steamship Thornaby was
the first reported sunk. Where she
met her fate has not been revealed.
The initial reports stated that all
members of the crew were either
drowned or killed, but the number of
the lost was suppressed. This wa
takn as conclusive proof that the ship
was torpeoed.
The British steamer Mulvina was
sunk off the coast of Kent, the War
Office announced, but the statement
contained no list of the dead. It is
not known whether other ships were
attacked or not.
London, March 1. A Central
News dispatch from Lisbon tonight
says: "It is reported here that the
German minister will leave tomorrow.
Many Germans are going to Spain."
London, March 1. Germany has
sent an ultimatum to Portugal, de
manding the restoration within 48
hours'of all the German ships recently
seized by that country. This an
nouncement was made in a telegram
from Madrid tonight.
Washington, March 1. Secretary of
the Navy Daniels tonight telegraphed
the officials of the Electric Boat Com
pany, demanding a eb'rect answer as to
when the two submarines, the company
contracted to build for the navy, would
be completed. The Secretary received
an indefinite answer this afternoon.
The inability to get steel is blamed for
the delay by the company. Secretary
Daniels said tonight he would refer the
REQUEST,
LAYS ACTION
matter to Congress.
London, March 1. With the ad
vanced lines hemming in Verdun in a
great semi-circle, the Germans tonight
are reported to be bringing up hun
dreds of their most powerful howit
zers for a terrifc smash at the power
ful fortress.
Exhausted by ten days and nights
of fighting, 1,500,000 infantry on botli
sides are resting tonight. During the
entire day no action took place, ac
cording to the French midnight state
ment. The lull is taken by both Paris and
London to herald a still greater battle.
While the Germans are rushing up'tho
newest Krupp guns, together with
huge store of ammunition, the French
are feverishly strengthening the de
fenses against the renewed drive.
Berlin, March 1. Artilehy so large
and powerful that it will be possible
to bombard England from the contin
ent is the certain proeiuce of the near
futur?, according to Prof. Fritz Rau
senberger, co-director of the Krupp
Woiks and inventor of the famous 42
centimeter gun in an interview with
the correspondent of the Tageblatt.
Modem artillery, nothwithstandinar
its tremendous strides, he says, has in
no wise reached the limits of its pos
sibilities, either in effectiveness or in
carrying power. The canon of the fu
ture, he believes, will be abel to able
to penetrate the strongest fortified
shelters.
The Krupp firm perfected the 42
centimeter gun several years ago, ac
cording to Prof. Rausenberger, but it
was only shortly before the outbreak
of the war that it was found possible
to make these giant cannon independ
ent of railroads and easily transportable.
L
