Columbia Ma'
Sentinel
S V
51ST YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1916.
NUMBER 44.
Circuit Court.
Owing to the temporary lllncs of
Judge Humes, Uic circuit court mill
wni not put In full operation Unit
week, but It I thought Judge Hurtles
health will be o Improved by Moti
ilny next ax to be able to be here,
and turn on a full hcntl of legal strain
and thing will be put to grinding in
the old and customary way.
This in the 7lith spring term of
the Holt Circuit Court, and while the
docket In somewhat larger for this
tcim than that of the nwt term,
which was held on March I, 1811, i:
In no larger when population li cou
riered. A little historical matter on
thin subject will be found elsewhere
In thin Issue.
Judge llurnc sticccrdcd In obtain
lni convent of Judge Thomn II. Al
len, of the llurhnnnn Circuit Court, to
come and take hi place nnd convene
court .Monday, which lie (lid, anil ins
im.nl ii f Ibe fnllowinir narole case:
Those against Lester Markt. Jelf
Shaher, Airily Iluer. Jolin woo-l,
(i rover Chosnoy and Thoninn Chcsnoy
were continued.
John Thompson wn dlschnrgrd
from hi nnrole.
Judge Allen, after disposing of
these cnse.t, took bin lenvo to liturn
to St. Joseph, with Instruct loim to
Clerk Dunham to adjourn court at
" 11. in. until Wednesday, when court
will ngnln convene for the purpose of
hearing the shcrlu" report of 111
Kale, ordered to be made at thl
term.
The Juror nnd witnesses had been
notlllcd bv the shcrilf that they weie
excused until Monday next. Mutch it.
On hearing the report of the idicriir
on hi sale, the court adjourned until
Monday next, and we hope Judge
Hume will be so Improved n to be
Willi u in the llosli.
VnnCump' Itepl),
M niionilnii una nwntK' called to
an nrtlcle that appealed In The Holt
County Sentinel, February 18, In
which the writer suggest the exis
tence of certain condition which wo
do not concede. . , ,
First. Wo quote rrom sahl article:
It upriii to u that limner investi
gation should be made to ascertain
the relationship of the old company
to the new. If any considerable num
ber of the old company nre intcri-sun
In the new, the natural Inference
would be that an attempt wa bcln;:
made to evade the obligation 01 mo
ld company.
Iln.l ll.i. writer followed II tl III SU.t-
plclon; had ho nvetlgnted the char
acter of the bond Issunl by the old
company, together Willi llie manner
THI'IK FINAL SI MMONS.
Donnn.
Fountnln Donnn, who came to 'thl
county before the civil war, and lo
cated In l.ioerty township, died at his
home In Mound City, February 'J.',
11)1(1, In the Mill year of Id age. Mr.
Donnn had been In feeble health r-cv-eial
)cnrs, retiring from nctive fnrr.t
life nnd living a retired life. He was
a splendid citizen, honorable nnd hlg'i
minded In hi dealing with hi fellow
man. lie served In the Confederate
nrniv of this stale, nnd participated
in the battles of lllue Mill and Lex
ington, as n member of Col. Slay
back' battalion.
Mr. Donan was born In llnrt Coun
ty, Kentucky, September 1, 1 8110,
where he siirnt hi wiling mnnhooi
dns, and when- he receded n good
t'OI NTY SlIIOOI. NOTKS. ilricl No. 1, n line a set of men a
IjisI Tuesday morning the superln- " can find iinywhere: Jlcssrs. Zach
.on.lcnt had tlie plcnsute of n1aki.1gnfy.7il. Painter, McJunkln, Lester
1 Tin, 11 i.iin uiiniua 41,111111-1..
M the sunenntendent get over thJ
county she is more nnd more Impress
ed with the rncl that they are n
plendid, Intelligent, hnspitnble, kind-
hit or people living in Unit l.outuv.
ALIIKUTA (iUKI.N-.MUItPIIY,
County Superintendent,
o
Mejer Po.t, C. A. II.
Met nt the home of Comrade D. I',
n.ilnns. Saturday. Feb. till. HMO. The
comrade present were: Commander
Cummins, Chaplin Itnnlman, 1). I'.
Dobyn. 11. F. Morgnn. T. C. Fuller,
dltCOO IMIlK. 1. III. minium, ... 1.1
I.ukcns, Itolit. .Montgomery, r.
.Mnrtrnn. Judire Van Cnmn.
Comiiinnder called Post to order
and prayer by chaplain. The regular
order of business wns transacted
Severn! comrade were reliortcd lrk:
iuurtcrinaster made hi repent for the
year nun.
Comrade T. C. Fuller, having been
appointed mustering olllcer for the
Post, proceeded to install tho follow
lug olllcer:
Commander, (!. W. Cummins; Keil
lor vice, 'Jacob King; quartermaster,
itobt. "Montgonlcry cliuplln, W. II,
Ilnnlman; oflleer of the day, T. C.
Fuller.
The olllcer appointed were F. S.
Morgan, adjutant; II. F. Morgnn,
quartermaster sergennt.
Commander Cumulus extended nn
Invltntlon to the Post to meet at hi
home the nest regular meeting, on
March LT, li'Ki; on motion the Invi
tation was accepted.
F. S. MORGAN. Adjt,
of securing payment of same. Me common school educntion. In 18o(l hi
could not have labored under the tie- went to (.nllfnmin, returning to Ken-
luslon Indicated in the ntiove quota- lucky in in-c in inoii lie enme '.o
Hon. The remaining outstanding Missouri, locating in Molt County in
bond of the old company will be paid the full of that year. Hole he re
by direct levy on the 1H.MM) acre of oinlned for two yeai. when he went
the old company and in no other way. to Colorado, but only irmnlned theii
Hence any land that mn no nuueii i-nr. ira no ramr nai-n 10 nun
In the old district will not be nliictc.l Inunty. 11 IM.II lie tried t olorndo
by nnv debt that ha been, or may again, ami also pro-peeled In Mn:i-
hereafter be incurred by the old com- tuna, but soon returned to Holt ( out,-
puny ii urir lie mis i-tri since ri-siiieu.
Again wo quote: "Wo would aim honored and respected by all. "Hi
..........i ii.i ........ 1......1 1... ..I1..1. i,v owned some Mill no res of nnd. on
those who are at the upper end of the will'" "no of the linost orchard
dltch to assure those at the lower end of Northern Ho t.
and nre Injured by the iitcrllow, that i" '" "; ' , ""' '
a proper Indemnity will In- given." Mn'?y,,,,,,v' wU" ,lv,' ch"
Unrortunnlciy lor 11 m uie lower 1 v . ,, ,.
end. tin- low of grntltallo.i is un- Mr. Donan. pjdltlrn ly. was a Detn
usual, and Immediate water from J? " " ' ,.uVi'' Krl' n ' wnH "f ""'
i gher evel will teeK lower level " " ..IT L .. 1
through poitentlal of this law, and . ' " ' ' T tt, n ,llllr "
so long a they lo not divert the llo.v ,la- 1 ''" -
from natural channels, we must take
cine of what come down upon u. Kneule.
Again we quote: "i was also in- Kindly, O00.I HenHeil "Tommi"
formiHl Hint when certain parties had Kneale has unswertd hi llnnl sum
attempted to obtain Indemnity, n innns nnd Joined tl,t great silent inn
Judgment wn round to he worthless. I jnrlty that hnve gone before. H.
owing to the llnnncial eniiilition of the pussesieil such n pleasant iiersonnlit)
company." a to ivmllly lenke fiicnil, and lit -
I he writer ha immmi n meinner 01 congeniality hrl.l them,
the ditch bonril sime its iiii'iiipoiatinn I'or the past few year he lu
ll ml If any Judgment hn eer been been sorely nClicteil. having been m
ivmlereil ngnlnst the eompaiiy he is a nou-eoinpus eondition 11 pint of the
Ignorant or Hie rnct. lime, lie wn only ill some thin
"Certainly It Is fair that the ex- iUy. and the summon mine at In-
penre ol the ditch be Inn tie by all home in thl city on Friday of la t
who nie benelited. and In pionoitlo:i week, Fehrnniy L'.'i. In lie -ll'il ear
to lienellt derived." An application hi age, having Ih-oii born In th
of this principle oiitit'.ile tue ilralii- county on hi fnthi rV farm, in Noi-
iil-c law of Missouri todav. away ton nil, in. January lh. IKT.I.
.Now whnt are the henehts ileilvoll lie wa mnrrlul to .Mis Stella ,M.
from ilrnliuiire? In n leientlv tried I Havhill. of New Point. I-Vlinmi v
case the court siistulneil the report 1 1!'1'. who, wltli ihnv sons, survlv-.
... . , . .1... . 1 lit.. 1 j . ....1 , 1 . ,i
01 ine roiiiiiiissioiiers nun gave 11 lien-1 ii" surivin nv 111s nge.l
cllt n"sesment of $,'1 per acre on all I mother, three sisters and four broth
the luiul In the district, for sanitary cr-
mid roiul Imnriiveinetit mil nnt.is. I rllheral service Wore lielil frnni
The justice or such u ileclrlon inU'H iniiiuy iioine, on Minuny last, ivii-
to the writer or the nr- rj -. eoniiucieii uy i-.hier II. II.
have nnnculfd 1
tide rrom wnicn we hnvo iM-en quo'.
Ing. when he made hi visit In Aug
ust to hi farms. We it conditions to
outlnue lis he then found them his
land would be Just about a valuable
ir the reimilnlng 1:111 1 ncie were with
the Imlunre or the tract.
Attorney K. J. Kellogg, of Craig,
wa attending to legal business In
Oregon, Monday or thl week,
K. O. Phillip and wife visited in
St. Joseph and Savannah for n couplo
or iluy, thl wceK, wun relative,
Paul Klllott. of Itlilgoway, Mo.,
wa In Oregon, Tuesday, on business.
lie wa only here lor a lew hours,
Fred Alkire, one of Forest Cltj'j
most progressive merchant, wn In
Oregon for a short time on business
Wednesday,
The Woman' Union will have It
next meeting on Tuesday afternoon
March T. The progiam will begin
promptly at .1 o clock.
A daughter, Marjory Jean, came
to gladden tho home or .Mr. ami .miv
Avon 11. Murray, l eh. uo. Dr. J. I
Hogan wa In attendance.
Miss dusta Uoncrmnn ha re
turned from ltulo, Neb., where she
ha spent the past two month with
jicr sister, .-vir. nine jone.
Mr. Mart Mcndenhall and Mis
Carrie McNulty, of Mound City, were
married in M. Joseph, Saturday, l eu
ruary l!tl. The Sentinel extend con
grntuiations.
Mrs. K. V. Headley I verv low
with pneumonia, and Mis Mary
Tcnev. a nroresslonnl nurse or ISew
Point, I with her. Mr. Headley, who
ha been fo pootly nil winter, I now
alilc To take hi "ration
Dawson: liiterment in
tiriie eeinelery.
tho Maple
Ohiluan.
Nancy Noiton was born In Puliiskn
County. Kentucky. Aniil (I. Ih.'ll: died
A continuance of present condition VvXt. ill, HUH, nt her home In Finest
lilrli niv constuiilly beromlng worse, '' having attained the age of SI
irough the elfort of Klmsey cieek ears, III months and L'll days.
1 L-a In 1111 outlet Into the .Vinson"! She wns married o (ilovner --
, by shoving her slit deposits ',' lh,1 Mic enmc to Molt H ltlH , wi, K,. M.,ll(Il t
until, Is certainly Indicative of it t'ounly In Im.i, and seiticu 111 ii,iii v,.ry coinfortable, homelike plan
when there will Ih-no road from h ity in IMiL'. but best of all, to my mind, is the fi
tin uu
to ga
ver,
westwanl
time
thl farm except the one leading . 'he htisliaml ami rather piicidid
ioith. i"'r to uie grave some ai) years, hav-
it una not fur the nniiiiise nf nr. lug given III life to hi eiilllltIN a II
guinent that I essaved to answer tills soldier, and was killed in the Civil
riiimiilinlrntliiii. fne iii-i-ii,nint I.miiI,, I III. July .1(1. IMi'l.
nowhere. I nch man nterested must l ive children were born to them:
study the situntlon for himself. 'ie I"')' died In childhood. The living
VYIIPthnr. IT Iff! nlnni. f-nnil t itnu ll-illlllll' .III. .Illiril I.IOIIS. Ol lilSlliej I. I IV.
Improvo or become worse then act Sci.i tiiles, lilchuid and .Samuel Nor-
in the way that he consider will ton. of l orest City,
best conserve the Interest of himself l ie deceased iirofessed faith In
and those dependent on him. Christ and united with the church
line more nuntnt on nm nr some -io year ngo.
done: "Some yeur ugo a ditch com- .'''lie funeral wa conducted from
pany wn organized und u ditch cut '"e ramlly home, nnd buriul was
to the Missouri river. It i possible made in the l orest City ccmoteiy.
that till ditch ha been of benefit to It. M. VV
some at the upper end of the ditch,
but it I certain thnt It hns lief,ii n
letr nient to the farm near tho n iinusuui inrlileiil.
mouth." Mr. Chandler, wife of Dr. J
f linri mil mi Sunei Inteiideiit Skel
ton, of the ltlgelow schools. Tues
day afternoon was spent In Mound
City school with Mis llertrnm in tho
r.th ginde; Mis llertrnm hn the
knack or getting her pupil in ini.
i he result being n very interesting
geogrnphy lesson.
At this time It Is Impossible to get
nver the county In a car, so ns the
.iiperlntendent wished to spend some
lime In some of the schools north of
Mound City, other nirangenient had
it K mnde. She was taken by .Mi
r.ti lle.ter. one of the Teacher-
1'ralnlng girls, to Miss Hester1
heme. In the Pleasant Hill district
Hero n very pleasant evening was
pent In the home of Mr. n"d Mr..
I . . ... 1I--.I ...n.trt 11, n a,i.
III'MI'r. . lllll, "SIIUJ llllll nulls ..nv: rn-
I'l'lntendelit Wlllked Willi lue teim.
, r. Mis France Potter, the shoit
hnlf mile to the Plensnnt Hill school,
Mis. Potter Inn done evcellent wolk;
-he is one of the teacher of the
iiunty who makes special pii parntlon
.in- each iinv work, ami nor scnom
.-erlnlnly show It. She ha" had .tit
pupil enrolled till yrnr.nlne of whom
liefong to the "A" class. Miss Poller
is making ariangements to attend
M'hool nt Kirksvllle next sear, where
her si der. Mr. Hymn Coby, reside.
Here' to hoping that later she will
ni'iio hark to Holt County to continue
her teaching work. At four o'clock
Mr. Hester drove up with hi line
team of bay and took the stiperin
teinleiit to Mr. .laiees Ivemilsh lesi
iletiee. in the lioss (!roe ilistlirt. Tht
.iitierintendent had Intended to walk
hi distance, bet us the mads wele
eeeeilinir1y inuddv. Mr. Hester erv
kindly Injl. led on not permitting her
to do so,
A most delightful evening wn
pent in the Kenmsh home, talking
over school matleis and other things.
Thursday morning Mr. Kenuish took
Mm. Miiinliv and Ids two bright chil
dren. l.ol and John, to the ichoul
house. The l!o.i (June teacher, Mis.
Sylvia I lies, bad luen sulloring the
greater pail hi the winter Willi n set
lous imuhii' in her Head; i en. 1 1, he
roudllioii beiame so alarming she
thought it ni ce seal) lo send In her
re gnalion: she s now in the .ns-
worlh hospltnl. a id we me all Implur,
nnd pra)ing for her speedy niover
Tlie relioul board engaged Miss 1'iie
ma Itadlev to llnish out the term
l hi wa .Mrs. .Murphy until visa
In till school; she round .Mis llndley
taking hold of thing like n veteinu
nnd school going on in line condition
In thl school there wn one puiill
l.ols Kennlsh, who hud oeeu lieithe
nli-ont nor tnidy ror the hair term.
At nhnllt fi ii'etiirk.. .Ml-. I.liiv
Thalrher drove to the school' house
to take the superintendent lo llie
home or .Mrs. Dora Keunish. lien
nuotlier enjoyuble evening wn spent
l-rhlny the superlnleudent wa at la-
able to realiite the pleasure she In.
long looked forward to--lliat i
spending n day in n real mini hlgl
school. The building contains two
rooms and n coat mom. Hie inborn
lory Is well iiiuipped with the neves
snry apparatus, while the main room
that here I found l.'i nunir iieonle. Coining
thiee sophomore and twelve fresh- I- I. i.ANSDOWN,
men, lecelvlng the advantages or a
higher education. Mem It not for -r,.s, c ,M(.l,o,ll,t Church Note
til in PMII llHTf II till MUIM- 1 I III I I f 1 ,1 , It
either have to he sent away rroni ,":" ' ,V,'. ' '"'
i...i i .i...i ...iT...... ... tendei Su nnv IS were In I hi. Kim.
ii ii iiiiini-s, iii iin-ir inuiiilli'll l I..., trti... . , i V . .,
i. ..i i. , .i... l.i. ilay srhnol, '.I wele received lulu t in
.ii'ukiii. in uu ,iiiiuTi, i.ni in mi- nui i I - l.i.. ,,u t . .i , ,
grade. The sunerlntenili'iit hu vis. ' '.,dl- 1 18 for tlie revival.
tied classes In all of the high school " , " .. ,' '""" .""'
V.
I'hl writer saw thl land in Alio I Chandler, nf till citv. like all those
ust, 111 lt. What were the condition who happened to Mist see tlie light
then almost everywhere? Unnrecc- of day on February :!!. oxiierience.l
dented floods. On ono of the formula birthday on Tuesday, of this week.
that he refer to, they were, Just one and thl only come to them once
rear previous, August ism, narvesi- every lour )cur nut huh even lull..
ng n tiu.uuu crop or wheat: this In I some tunes. .Mrs. chandler nm nil
snlte nf tho fact that this farm lien other who wero born on that dnv.
In the lnimeiliate vicinity of the Inuer I lapsed a birthday in lh'.lfl. nnd then
end of the ditch, and consequently did not hnvo n birthday for eight
Kuujeci io mo iicirimc mai conditions our inier, muKing a inpse 01 eight
complained of.
A. V. VAN CAMP.
at the
table.
Itohcrt Hatch, Mercer Hlnde, I)r
II. (i. Pierce, Harry lilts. Jesse and
Harold Kahn witnessed the bout be
tween 'lorres, of New Mexico, and
Alberts, or New Jersey. In St, .lose..
juesuay night, Torres winning in tno
15th round.
James Kmbrey, of the Mayflower
district, wo In St. Joseph, Mondnv
of this week, called thorn to seo hi
son, London, who Is In the Knsworth
hospital of thnt city, where ho recent
ly underwent nu operation. Wo nro
glad to report thnt ho Is getting nlontr
nicely.
Mr. J. A. Klopp I at her homo
nuito sick. Klio started for Colorado.
Tuesday, and a she wa buying her
ticket at Forest City, sho was at
tacked With a hemorrhage, of tho
nose nnd compelled to return to Ore
gon. Her many friends hope for n
speedy recovery.
A birthday surprlso was tendered
Mrs. Emma Grimes by Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Golden, but our correspondent
falls to tell us when or where It oc
curred, or whether It was a 20-year
or 70-year birthday, so that wo can
, only say thai some time recently, Airs,
Grimes had a birthday.
Knlerlulncd.
On Inst Saturday evening thu
young folk Literary and Musical club
was delightfully entertained nt 'ho
handsome new home of Dwlght Zrrh
man. A patriotic program had been
arranged, and although a few n-ein-
ner were indent, a very good pr
grain wa givrn.
Lloyd rl hatcher and Floyd Cofr-
n U'l, guest or the club, gnvo some
phuij nnd violin selections, which
wero greatly enloved.
M. n...l M - . ..-! l.l-.l i .....
.Ml. UIITI ..,J, f.lll IIIIIIUI llllllt'tl III wie
guests' pleasure by showing them nil
tliiough t'le'l li-nutiful house, which
Is modern In every ihtn'l.
After enjoying a delirious two
course luncheon ami various came,
the guests departed, declaring the
evening with Dwlght n most enjoy.
nuie one. .
Prch)trrl.in Church Notes.
All service a usual next Sunday.
The Ladies' Aid Society meet with
Mrs. Vanlluskilk, on Tuesday afternoon.
Ihe Missionary Society will hold It
last tegular meeting of the present
hurch year on next Wednesday nr-
teruoon, March 8, nt i!:.'IO, at tin
nine of Airs, (leoige l.ehmer. All
the member nre urged to be present
nnd to hi log their dues, so that the
trea.uter can close up her luniks for
the year. I he soeleli hail a special
meeting iistelday afternoon with
All. Alontgomeri. and tin shed three
chanter of the home study lmnk.
Home .Missions In Actions. Ihe
other thlii- chapter of the bonk Will
he eompletiil nt another special meet
Ing.
All Josephine .Murray i leader of
the i iiiisiinn l.tulcavnr, next Miiulai.
Ihe subject I "llie I onset ration of
Strength." I'snliu This .
the monthly eonsecrnt nil meet ng.
Ilring a verse to nnswer mil call and
your monthly olfering for mission.
A mission study class of Jll member
hn lieeu nrgnnlzeil among the l.n
envorer to meet Snttin av after,
noon, once a month. They will Use n
very Interesting book, "( omrade in
ervice."
Our church ienr clo.se with the
Inst ilnt of Miiirh. 'I here me four
mote Sundays; let us make them the
best of the )ear. (lather tip the loose
ends, sqiinte up nil nccount, moral
as well ns lliianeial, spiritual us weli
a Lempniiii, nml start the new e-ir
with a clean slate, u high purpose
and n determiiiatloii to make jour
ne count lor inni.
T. A. CI.AtiiriT, Pastor.
Illhle School Itepnrl of Hull t'ounl)
lihriiar 'JO. I'.lHi.
School, Atleiidniice Col
.Mound l ily Cliristlan I.M
.Mound City M. I; I I'J
.'lo'jud City Presbyterian. Ml
Forest City Christian Mil
l oivsl I lly Al. i: lJ
Finest City lluptlsl .l
iiiegon i hllstlnii ,2
Olegon Al. K
Olegon Pivsbyterian .
tiregon i.vnhgellcul...
Alultlnnd hristiun ...
Maltlnud M. K
Malt'iiinl Piesbyterlan
Craig Christian
Iligelotv Christian....
Iligelow Al. i:
New Point ChiiMian. ,
Ninth llethel
South L'nlon
Illnir
tto (iioye ,
Minn. Valley
Plensnnt Hill
lleuton
Hbenerer ...
Shllo l". It.
.117
.III
. fil
.1(18
.101
. Si I
. 78
. -IS
. -Ill
. HI
. mi
. it.'
. :::
. -in
. :w
. :n
. .TJ
, . ::i;
, . 17
hi
? l.rs
1 l.it.1
7.c:t
l.J
'J.l
M.illl
i.c,:i
Lis
I. Ill
ll.llll
.'.r.J
.'.17
l.J7
-'..M
.!!
.Mi
.Pli
I. Ill
.'.'li
,iiil
.HI
I
i.;7
Lie!
of the county, and till school com
pare favorably witli any of them
'l',... I I ..... !,!.. I-
i in inn wns especially mnunni'i
in their choice of an instructor, who
is not, only a graduate or the .Mis-
souri University, but who for mine,
than live year wa an instructor in
will be leceived the second Sunday In
.-Hill II.
Ihe Junior LenL-ue hml n i.,l
meeting J gave their name for
memhership. We hope to complete
their organliatlon next Sunduv nt ;i
I, in.
llie l.puotth League had an excel-
Measles, A Diflicull Problem.
Measles i nerhan the most wide
spread of epidemic disease known..
II t perhaps mo niosi reniiny com
munlcable of nil disease. It I Pres
ent more or les all of the tlmc In
the cltle In the temperate 7.one. Kpi
demic am likely to occur during tho
cool month of tlie yenr.
r.xperimenl hn proven that me
germ I contained In the blood, nnd
also secretion of the nose and mouth..
It I most contagious before the erup
tion come out. The germ disappear
from the blood sunn after the erup
tion appear. All person are liablu
to measles, but a it Is so widespread
the groat majority or people contract
it during childhood, conseiiuently it
I usually considered u childhood dis
ease. Adult havo It much les frc-
uiently than children, but tin l be
cause they have already had It.
I he popular Idea I that It I n
trivial disease and should not bo
ouiitenanrid, It is often fatal both
In mlult nnd In children, pneumonia
heltig Ihe usual cause or death. II
is particularly fatal in so-called scrof
ulous rhildieu. and it I lint uncom
mon for tulierrulosi to develop in
children who have recovered from
niensle. When it become prevalent
In n new population tlie death rate f
high. I'or oxmnplc. in the Snndwicli
island, out of I Ml.mio population, -Id,-lino
died in four months' time.
Slnre the vim i contained in the
secretion of the nose and mouth, it
I. evident that Infection Usually take
ploce through these sectetions. It
probably enters the body nlso through
the body und nose. Of nil contagious
disease known, measles is one which
apparently travels through the air.
Nevertheless, nt the Pasteur hospital,
III rnrls, when each patient I In n
separate nlcovo opening Into n com
mon hall without any physical barrier
wlialevi r.no rase of measles I spread
from one patient to another, conse
quent!) we an sine that contagion
take place ny niieci coniaci in u
gienl mnjoiity in caes. u seem
ceitaln that the spiny ptnduecil by
coughing and sneezing also enrrie
the Infection.
The prevention in mensle i one
of the most dilllcult problem which
face the health olllcer, according to
Dr. M. P. Ilnti'ticl. of the Deiinrment
of Pirventlve Miillciue of tlie Univer
sity of Missouri, at ( olumbin. The
disease i most rontngioii in the
-in Iv stnge before a diagnosis I
tiiade. consequently the harm I al
lendy dime. The early ymptom ate
very much like those of nn ordinary
cold, consequently they nttrnrt little
alteutioii, and other cne are so ex-
tiemely mild that the diagnosis is I lit -pn.sible
until the eruption appear.
Nevertheless, such enses can give a
virulent tvne of the illsene in other
person. The common habit of expos
lug children to measles so tnat luey
can hnvo them while they are young,
I entirely wrong. Of the deaths
which occur, nearly I'd per cent are In
children under " .tear of age. Isola
tion of the sick I the one measure
which I elllclent for preventing the
spread of the disease.
Visiting should not be allowed, but
It should be rememlieri-il that "no
amount of i-iiliitluii after the ill sea so
i. recognized rnn ntone for tin harm
done before the diagnosis I mnde."
Disinfection of the mom after a ruse
of mensle due not seem woith while.
It is best, how ever, to leave a room
ill which mensle tins occurred, empty,
und have it well sunned anil nlied
before re-occupying. Ileihling, towels,
nnniikcrrmcis, etc., should ne imiieil.
Aledlcnl inspection and Isolation of
all pupil showing a lise in tempera
ture doe much to nrevit " Tad
of the disease among school children, ,
out wnn uu oi our piecauuon measles
continue to be the most dilllcult nt' nil
disease to handle ns far a nreven
tlon goe. Furnished lit- the Depart
ment of I'leventive Aledirine of the
University of .Missouri, nt Columbia.
the University. HI broad experience ,',", ,.' . "Si"' ,.m,,.nn
hn helped greatly to make thl school Kaffi
nuicr. i ... , -. , , ' , ,
r , . ... . . . mim virr UTHiiirr i, i, ov linn.
of Consolidated I strlc (.ai Sumlay evening. ,The "ul.Jeet
in you to forget nil past (, "Tho Consecration Tof Strengtli"-
I'ntroiis
... , i
JiV.r. ..:.f. ; '" t.onsecrauon or ."Strength'
.uie .-. us, an., to tiii.ie. as i niy i-ig 's. "11:1.1 1; the time is (Iillll. It . ,-,w.
vok .f', e: ; - ir'" .. .. .''""'i'1' "- 'n -'"ke this
.. ,..... , ,,, .. Mieeu. n success.
tou vote a levy of (!,V you can easily .Sermon by the nastor nt T-.-in.
KI...W the county nt large that u . Worna
niite tue reai progressive spirit, that want a full meetliiL' of Its m m,
I,,.stf..r. nfte.- ,ii. ul, .1 ,. i... .. " " " ".iii-.i rnstor.
and lands worth if mir htlilrni, hi
the educntion making them the eiiunls HunlerH M'ou't lie Arresled.
of their fellowm'en '.' Jesse II. Jone, state guine ci.miiii.i
Mid ilon't woiry over the tax; b-j sinner of .Missouri, says: "Tell our
tuaui.iiii iiiui you own the vn un hh .nissoiir hunter to i-o nhem ..-,,1
IHoperty upon v. hlcli this school mon- hunt duck nccording to our stale
ey inn ne ini-e.i. i nu nave no city anil until n tleclsinn I relu cted
tax to pay. 'Ihlnk of your fellowmei as lo tho constitutionality of tho fed-
in Minimi lllv nnd Uregon: we hnvo ernl lutv. Alt- i emit e wl II ,mli-
not only voted n school tax levy of lifter the enforcement of the Missouri
M.iu nml l.:iii, respectively, hut we law, until we get a fedeial decision."
Went to Uochcsfcr. .Minnesota. . 1 ' ") ". '" "" " ' -v"oe-i-n,ocrai, M. i.oui. l eh. L'T.
iJuvhl Cintin wnn In Kt. .Iit.ii.1t. mi I i li I, ....... r. ... I '.
Wednesday of hu.t week, IVhruary t,t we are willing' to do this, nnd , , 1t'"r'1 "f, 'rbnU
I. Imv lg liccomnnn ed i s Kiel- ' mmvi i,. ir li I. .,.....,.... r l Me desire to thank t huso u hn
fiiiiii wn . ufiLn. i ,,1' ,.., 1 1 .,i r i Kiiniiv ussisieu us in me n ness tin.
nm- l,,.,i,lj ll.nl ll ' u I, I I (li u t ll of our heloveil hllslmnil. no, I
i.. ' . .. . . ' I ""l" f,l, l. r.. .I.- I us.. I n I
uie io luwn mai uie chllilien have .V V uiuumui norai
sunerioi eihicntlonnl ndvnntiu-i.M. ii.. oirering.
. . i ti ii , i.,t,i. .,t-i,. .... .....
town hn nothing to do with t: t's iu.uivr.u uiui,-
se tho.-e people arc willing to
year without a birtlulav. This Incl
dent In the evolution of tho calendar
only occurs once in 101) years. Mr.
Chandler I still a vouiil- tvnm.'in. In
the vury prime of life, mid we ran
omy wish lor ner thnt she may llvo
to experience the same incident in
mo yenr -iuiHi. Another peeuhar In
cident In her life is, Hint she wus a
iwin and she munied n twin. Lester
Painter, of New Point, i in Hie samp
class with Mi. Chandler, huving n
birthday every four years.
Married, nt the residence of Kill
er li. II. Dawson, pastor of the Chris
tlan church, of this citv. Sunday even
ing, rcurunry ituo, Air. t roil wo
land and Miss Minnie Marie, daugh
ter of Tom Kirk and wife, of Forest
City. Tho Sentinel Joins with their
many friends In wishing them a long,
useful and happy journey through Ufa
together.
.Miss .Numile, thiit far, enrouto to
HochcMor, .Minn., win re she goes to
consult tho Mnjos, and if necessary,
win no operateil upon. .-he was iilrt
nt St. Joseph by her sister, Mrs. C.
tt- r..i.. ... i.-.h: ,
,,. won-, ui 1-iniiioic, woo accompan
ied her Ihe remainder of llie journey.
in.- ti ust inui an operation win not
be necessary, and that idte will soon
uo noio to return homo in nn Im
proved condition.
Kvangellcal Church.
There will be preaching In Oregon.
Sunday, at 11 a. m.. and at Nlckell'.i
urove In the evening, everybody
liecaiise
pay tlie money.
Seem to me I have preached nuito
a sermon please pardon me; this
welcome.
I-ASTOIt.
Tho Junior of this ercat religious
nmtier In xn. v rhwo n .. i,. t 1 1 weekly and his dear, good wife, left
hnt-4. mlnntn.l n, ,ii m.-n nil ll.n nl.ll- I Wednesday for Excelsior Snrinirx.
ilPii nf Unit (fnnntv nciinln ii,. Missouri, whero Mr. Curry will tako
country children, and I want them to U course of baths and a rest, which ho
hnvo ihnir Huht. 1 1 Kreniiy in neeii oi ui mo nreseni
.... I 4 I T .1, 1 41.- 4 .1 ,1
Thn cnnArlnlinilnnl l.n.l IIia tnlA.i. I 11IIID. tfV I1UHO tllU real nnu inreo
urn of meeting the six members of wa8hjnKsa. ,weck wl" Provo cvcry
thu Kliool board or Consolidated Uls-i' ..
Mr. T. P. Fitzmnuilre tins n Si.
Joseph visitor, Wednesday.
Otto oltmer, of Coming, wn
here Wednesday, on probate business.
A. K. Sturges and Dr. T. O.
Davis, of Alaitland. were looking nf.
ter husincs In Oregon, Wednesday.
Air. .Mont Austin, of St. Joseph.
came up Wednesday, for a few day'
visit with her sister. Mesdames Guy
i.i......ia .i i, i, ..i.... '
..iiiuiiiii. ..mi ii, ii, iiuit-y.
Mr. Kva Grlnstrad and llttlo
daughter, who have been visiting her
parents, .Mr. and Mr. C. J, Hunt,
returned to their homo In Kansas
City, Wednesday,
Dr. F. K. Ilullock and A. J. Ly
on, of Forest City, weie in Knnsn
City, a few day thl week, visiting
Mr. Lyon' brother, who wa recently
operated upon, and who I reported
n Improving.
Wo understand that our fellow-,
townsman. Perry 11 rooks, uccomnan.
lid by hi wife nnd family, will take
ineir departure iroui uregon, tho llrst
of next week, for Huxtum, Col., wliero
they will nuike their future home. Wo
uro Indeed sorry to have them go, mid
can only congratulate the people of
iiiiMiiin on ineir acquisition, nnu join
with their ninny friend In wishing
them health und prosperity in their
new iiume.
The Y. P. S. C. H. of tho rhri.
tlan church gave a "leap yenr" social
In the I. 0. 0. F. hall Inst Friday
evening, which was a most successful
one. Tho boys brought boxes full of
"cntins" and nuctloncd them oh to
me gins, who did some lively bidding.
.. , KuesslnK contest, Airs, licit
Alanle received a pound of chocolates,
while Col. P. M. Ilabb had to bo sat
isfied with a sackful of stick candy.
Tho next social will be a "tacky" one,
to be held March 17. Tho word for
roll call next Sunday evening It
"Strength."
'-VHir "n ""i' .
wmmmmmmmmmimmmmmimmmmmmmmmmmmiuiimr -
JKi
