BAR!
TIMES
VOL. XIX-NO. 299.
HAHHK, 'VERMONT, FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1910.
TRICE, ONE, CENT.
THE
DAILY
CRUEL
LOSSES
By Germans After Several
Fruitless Endeavors on
Their Part Near Douau-
mont, According to the
French Official Statement
To-day
ATTACK ON VAUX
or continued from a vessel which lias
stopped, hauled down her Hug or other
wise indicated her intention to surren
der; the. expression 'armament' includes
not only cannon, hut also rilles und ma
chinu gun in cases where these have
been supplied. ,
"Circumstances under which urmanient
should bo employed:
".Thu armament is supplied for thfl pur-
pone of defense only. Tins object of tlio
master should be to avoid action when-
ever that hostile submarines and air
III craft have frequently attacked merchant
P" I I vessels without warning. It in impor
III tant, therefore, that craft of thin de
I seription should not lie allowed to ap
proach to short range, at which a tor
pedo launched without notice would al
imwt certainly be effective. British and
allied tuibinarineii and aircraft have or
der not to approach merchant vessels.
Consequently it may be preaumed that
any submarine or aircraft wliicli dcliber
ately approaches or pursues a merchant
vessel does ho with hostile intention. In
such cases lire may be opened in self-de
fense in ordeV to prevent the hostile craft
from closing to a range at which resist
ance, to a sudden attack with bomb or
torpedo would be impossible. An armed
merchant vessel proceeding to render as
sistance to the crew of a vessel in dis
tress must not seek action with any bos- j
tile craft though if she herself m at
tacked while doing so fire may be opened
itt B.ilf (Inf.itidA If ultool.t tiji mtiinnl.
WAS REPULSED bered that the flag is no guide to nation
ality, (icrman submarines and armed
merchant vessels have frequently em
ployed the British, allied or neutral col
ors to approach undetected. Though,
however, the use of disguise and false
colors to escape capture is a legitimate
ruse dc guerre, its adoption by defensive
ly armed merchant ships may easily lead
to misconception. .Such vessels, there
fore, are forbidden to adopt any form of
disguise which might cause them to lie
mistaken for neutral ships."
WILSON VICTORY
BY68T014V0TE
IN THE SENATE
Senator Gore's Resolution to
Warn Americans Off of
Armed Ships of the Bel
ligerent Powers Was Ta
bled by More Decisive Ma
jority Than Expected
SENATE REVOLT IS
FLATLY QUELLED
in my presence that could be construed
jas justifying the report heard by Sena
'tor (lore that war would not be unwel
'come to the. president. On the contrary,
the president has said he was working
night and day to keep the country out
of war. lteeently several member of
the House asked me if the president said
the same thing that Senator Gore attrib
,uted to him to-day, and 1 answered no,
flatly."
COMMERCE RAIDER
MAY RE WAITING
TO ENTER PORT
TRIPLE CRASH
NEAR ALBANY
HER MONEY MISSING.
And Body of Mrs. Karl Perry of Spring
field Found in Locked Room.
Springfield, March 3. Mrs. Karl Perry,
about !i." years old, was found dead from
gas asphyxiation in the bath room of her
apartments in the Dr. It. A. Chapman
residence on Summer street late venter-
Three Trains Were Piled in ;lav terno. Her body was discovered
by Mr. IVrry, who is employed bv the
66 NET GAIN "
IN CHECKLIST
Wreckage on New York
Central Railroad .
TWO KNOWN DEAD;
TWO ARE MISSING
,After Repulse of Their As
sault, the Germans Re
tired, Leaving Many Dead
Upon the Field Only Ad
vance Conceded by French
Was at Douaumont Village
Paris, March 3. Bombardments and
attacks on the part of the German troops
continued all yesterday evening in the re
gion north of Verdun, according to the
announcement by the French war office
this afternoon. The fighting was con
ducted with redoubled violence.
Near Douaumont several fruitless en
deavors on the part of the Germans were
repulsed with cruel losses for them. Nev
ertheless the Germans succeeded in reach
ing the village of Douaumont, where the I
GERMAN RANKS DECIMATED.
When They Attempted Charge Near
Douaumont.
Paris, March 3. German attacks of
great violence, both artillery and infan
try, have been resumed to the north of
Verdun. The official statement issued by
the French war oflice last night says
that furious infantry assaults have been
repulsed by the French troops, "whose
fire decimated the ranks of the enemy."
In Belgium destructive fires have been
directed by our artillery against the Ger
man organizations to the east of Steen
straete. "Between the Somme and the Oise a
German work was destroyed by our bat
teries in the region of Beuvraignes.
In Champagne, a German aeroplane.
Senator Owen Deserted His
Colleague After a Confer
ence with President Wil
son House Is Reported to
Be Standing Back of the
President
And Another Man Reported
to Be Dying All Ex
press Messengers
Washington, D. C, March 3. By a vote
of 68 to 14, a greater majority than ex
pected, the administration forces in the
Senate to-day tabled Senator Gore's reso
lution to warn Americans off armed ships
of the European belligerents and thereby
Anally quelled in the Senate any agita
tion which has emlmrrassed President
Incoming Ship Tells of Seeing Mysteri
ous Lights Off Newport News
It is Thought Vessel May
Bo German.
New York, March 3. The report that
a German commerce raider or prize was
off Cape Henry, Virginia, waiting a fa
vorable chance to make a dash for New
port News or Norfolk, was brought here
to-day by Captain Munkcwitr. of the
Bull-insular liner Grayson from Porto
Hico.
The captain said that early yesterday Albany, N. Y., March 3. Two men are
lu was called on deck by the second offi- known to be dead, a third man is dying
ccr, who reported a triou. light in d , , d beon
the east. Captain Munkewitz altered
his course when a second light appeared. killel a rear-end collision in the North
Both lights disappeared as suddenly as j Albany yards of the New York Central
they appeared. railroad to-day. The dead and injured
were express messengers.
A heavy eastbound freight struck a
train loaded with express, awaiting the
signal to pull into the Albany station.
A third train, also loaded with express,
crashed into the wreckage, adding to the
pile.
And 345 Changes, All Told,
Were Made for Barro
. Voters
ARMY BILL COMPLETED.
Will Be Reported Unanimously to the
House Next Week.
Washington, D. C, , March 3. Final
agreement was reached by the House
military committee late yesterday on
its bill for the increase of the army, and
it will be reported unanimously to the
House early iu.t week. In round fig
ures, the measure would authorize the
formation of an army composed of reg
ulars, national guardsmen and federal
volunteers with a total peace strength of
approximately 700,t)f)0 men.
It provides for a maximum strength
of 170,(KIO fighting troops for the regular
army, for a minimum of 425,000 for the
Wilson in his negotiations with Germany Nati()IW ,Jimrd wit!lin flve ytariJi anil for
over the submarine issue, organization of federal volunteers
Senator Gore s resolution, a substitute through an extension of a summer train-
u, .muniiw mm mi umii im, camp idea, jt is estimated that 1(H),
ROTH INSTANTLY
KILLED BY TRAIN
bv Senator (iore to strengthen the origi
rial proposal were all defeated at one
time on the rollcall on motion of Senator
Janic.4, one of the administration 'a whips,
to table them. Senator (fore's proposed
000 men can be euroiled in the latter
force.
The bill retains provision for organi
zation of industrial and technical re
serves behind the fighting line and au-
fighting continues with ferocity. The I
village of Vaux also was attacked by the sl'clled by our batteries in the vicinity
Germans but there the advances were ot 'PP-. w ' witmn tne ene-
checked by French fire and the Germans
were- compelled to retire, leaving a great
ji he
v-m
number of dead. The bombardment con
tinued with great intensity last night in
the Woevre district but'the French forces
held the Germans in check with a curtain
of fire.' The German artillery has been
active in the vicinity of Malancourt and
near Haucourt.
The German Report.
Berlin, March 3. German troops
cleared the village of Douaumont and
pushed their lines to the west and the
south of Villahe and of the armored fort
yesterday, according to official announce
ment issued to-day by the German army
headquarters. The statement adds that
.ore than a thousand prisoners were
taken and also that a number of heavy
guns were captured.
mv lines
"In the Argonnes we executed concen
trated fires to the north ofllarazeeand
on the Chappy wood.'
"In the region of the north of Verdun
and in the Woevre, the activity of the
enemy artillery, which had abated some
what during the preceding days, was con
siderably increased during the course of
the (lav along the entire front, and
principally on Le Mort Homme, the Cote
Du Poivre and in the region of Douau
mont. At the last named point the
bombardment was followed by several
attacks of infantry of extreme violence.
This series of attacks was repulsed by
our troops, whose fire decimated the en
emy ranks.
correction was to make tlie resolution thorizes the, creation of hoard of oHi
declare it to be the sense, of the Senate j,.erg to control an industrial mobiliza
that the death of American citizens on tion in time of war or imminence of war.
unarmed merchant ship would be justjit also provides the manufacturers of
cause for war. When Senator Core ! ar material must irive immediate nref-
sought to talk on the correction he was jerence to government orders in war time,
promptly shut off by the motion to table
by Senator Jnmw,
New England Nearly Solid Against
Resolution.
The vote of the New- England senators
on the rollcall was as follows: Ayes
Bramfegeo of Connecticut, Burlcign of
Maine, Colt of Rhode Island. Dillingham
of Vermont, Mollis of New Hampshire,
Johnson of Maine, Lodge of Massachu
setts, McLean of Connecticut, Page of
Vermont, Weeks of Massachusetts; nay
Gallinger of New Hampshire. Senator j
Lippett of Rhode Island was not record
ed.
Senator Gore himself voted to table his
resolution. Senators Chamberlain and
O'Gorman were the onlv Democrats to
or when there is danger of war, under
heavy penalty for failure to do so.
While the minimum strength of the
regular army remained at 140,000 a
change was made before the final vote to
fix the maximum of fighting troop at
170,000, bringing the total authorized
strength of tho regiila force, including ! occupants no chanc of ecape,
Mr. and Mrs. Bert A. Smalley Were De
scending Hill in Auto ear Rock
land, Me, and Probably Failed
to Note Approach of Train.
Rockland, Me., March 3. Mr. and Mrs.
Bert H. Smalley of Tenants Harbor were
instantly killed at Georges Kiver yester
day afternoon when their automobile
crashed into a Maine Central passenger
tram bound from Boston to this city.
The motor car was smashed to bits
and Mr. Smaller was terribly mangled.
The tragedy occurred within a short
distance of where Capt. N. Webb Thomp
son of Friendship was killed and four
others injured in a similar accident a few
months ago.
. Mr. Smalley. who carried the mail be
tween Port Clyde and Thomaston, ac
companied by big wife, had been in this
city on business during the day. They
were riding toward Warren, and in the
harp descent in the highway, just be
fore it crosses the railroad track, evi
dently failed to note the approaching
train. The automobile struck between
the baggaga car and tender, leaving its
Jones A Lainson Machine Co., on his re
turn home. Not finding his wife in the
living apartments, Mr. Perry investi
gated and found the door to the bath
room locked. The door was forced and
the woman was found upon' the floor,
where she had fallen, breaking her
glasses and cutting her face.
No cause can be assigned for the wom
an's act, if it was premediated as it is
generally believed, except that she had
been somewhat despondent because of ill
health. The burner on a gas range and1 ... ..
on a gns fixture used for lighting were. Many JNatUrallZf
open wnen tno woman was loutiu.
Mrs. Perry was tho daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. . U. Tupper of Bakersfleld. She
was graduated from Jirignam academy
in the class of 1900. Besides her parents,
she is survived by her husband, three
brothers, Charles E. Tupper of Barre,
Koyal, of Bakersfield and Herbert (J.
Tupper of Springfield, and two sisters,
Abbie E. and Hazel Tupper of Bakers
field .
Mrs. Terry on Wednesday drew $200
from the savings bank, but the money
has not been found, though a search has
been made for it.
LAST SESSION WAS
ATTENDED BY JTSH
Jitizens
to Vote for F 'c Time
NextT!day
QUINCY MFRS. ASS'N
VOTES CONFIDENCE
IN ITS COMMITTEE
the hospital corps ftnd other non-com
batant troops, to 190,000.
The Senate military committee ex
pects to vote finally upon its army bill
The victims were not identified for
some time after the accident.
Mr. Smaller was 49 and had been mail
carrier on the Port CI vde -Thomaston
BRITISH REGAIN
TRENCH AND
GERMAN SALIENT
Official Statement Tells of Victory at
' Bluff of the Ypres-Comines Canal,
Where Ground Was Lost
Feb. 14.
London, March 3. The British official
statement Issued last night on the fight-
ing in the western zone says:
"We recaptured the trench at the bluff
of the Ypres-Comines canal which we
lost Feb. 14 and also captured a small
salient in the German line."
The capture of 800 yards of British
positions southeast of Ypres, after heavy
artillery bombardments was claimed in
the German official statement of Feb. 15,
which added that a majority of the de
fenders of the British trenches were
killed.
everywhere to the bombardment and I vote against the administration. The
shelled the enemy's roads of eommutii- j other 12 anti-administration votes were
all Republicans. Forty-four Democrats
and 22 Republicans voted to table the
resolution.
It was said at the White House that
the result in the Senate was satisfactory
and met the w tabes of the president. It
was added that attention would now be
centered on the situation in the House.
Gore Deserted By His Colleague.
Senator Owen, the colleague of Senator
Gore, who amazed the Senate with the
SOLELY FOR RESISTING ATTACKS.
cation.
"To the northeast of St. Mihiel our
long range guns bombarded the railway
station at Vigneulles. Awording to our
observers two Are were started. Bevcral
trains were hit and a locomotive was
blown up.
"In upper Alsace there has been great
activity on the part of both artilleries
in the sector of Seppois.
"Last night one of our bombing squad
rons dronned 44 sheila of nil cnlilires on
tho station nt. Chamlilev. which anneared report that President Wilson had said
to have suffered serioun damage. Not-the entrance of the United States into
withstanding a, lively cannonade the aero- ll,e E uropean w ar might render a service
planes returned in safety to our lines, to civilization, conferred with the presi-
"Jo-day our aeroplanes likewise.1"1"' 111,8 saw later mat lie
iouiiu neiiaior itore a a ceo mil entirely
without foundation.
Senator Owen went to the White
House at the request of several other
senators to learn the exact status of the
international situation before the Senate
met at noon to vote on the Core resolu
tion. He said after the conference that
while the situation is grave it was not
nearly as bad as pictured by Gore in the
Senate yesterday.
Acting Chairman Pou of the House
rules committee also aw President Wil-
dropped 40 shells on the railway station
at BenBford and nine projectiles on the
enemy establishments at Avneourt.'
MINE FIELD AFLOAT.
to-day, and it is possible the first of the rot nearly three vears. Mrs. Smaller.
prepareoness measures urged oy i resi
dent Wilson will ba placed before both
houses of Congress Saturday.
BERNSTORFF GETS
APPAM DECISION
Contents Witheld at German Request
Pending Action of the
Courts.
Wushington, 1). C, March 3. -The state
department yesterday sent to Count Von
Hernstorff, the German ambassador, its
decision in the case of the British liner
Appam, which was captured by a Ger
man raider and brought into Hampton
rioads in charge of a prize crew. An
nouncement of the contents will fle with
held at the reauest of counsel for the
German government, pending a decision , P'gn of the national association tor tlie
in the libel action brought bv agents of jMisan u. Antnony amendment to me
the original British ownera in the federal
who was formerly Fletta Sartelle of
Clark Island, -was about 4ff. They are
survived by four children, Clarence, Ben
jamin, Bart and Lewis.
E. L. Risteen was conductor of the
passenger train and Joseph York the engineer.
The Committee Given Full Power to Act
for Association in Conference That
May Be Held with Cutters'
Committee.
Quincy, Mass., March 2. Members of
the Granite Manufacturers' association
of Quincy, last night gave the committee
which lias ben representing them in con
ference with the workers in the indus
try a vote of confidence, and also full
power to act for them in an effort to
settle the strike now on here. No con
ference has been held between the repre
sentatives of the manufacturers and the
strikers since the men quit work Wed
nesday, when the old wage agreement ex
pired. New wage agreements have been
drawn up for workers in all the branches
of the industry, but none of them can
go into effect until the question of how
long they shall run has been settled. The
strikers demand either a three-year or a
five-vear agreement Thn manufacturers
, Judge J. If. Watson's opinion, in which
Uther members of the supreme court conr
curred, doubtless quickened, activities
among the delinquent taxnavers here in
Barre for the influx of persons anxious
to get their names on the checklist was
unusually large for the last meeting of
the board of civil authority. F. G. How
land presided at the session last night,
which was heldtin the court room at city
hall, and in a total of 75 changes ordered,
there were 50 new names. Previously,
an aggregate of 163 names had been add
ed in two meetings of the board and that
that number should be augmented by as
many as 50 was a matter of remark, it
was thought.
In three meetings of the board, held
for the sole purpose of preparing the
checklist for use on election day, exactly
3 ik changes have been authorized. Addi
tions rather than transfers from ono
ward to another were predominant, as is
the case usually, although the proportion
of new names is seldom as large'. In the
main, this increased proportion is traced
to the naturalization courts, where many
aliens have been admitted to citizenship
since April 1, 1915. Then, too, the su
preme court decision, extending the fran
chise on state issues to delinquents,
brought out many t horn election day
had previously promised to affect but
little, inasmuch as they were thought to
be deprived by their delinquency from
jvoting on local issues. All told, there
are to be 215 names on the checklist this
vpar that were never there before. Apart
from that class of new citizens who have
qualified tinder the naturalization act,
want the new agreements to run four there ia 1prnap8( more than thfi muai
years, at the end of which time present
wage agreements at Barre, Vt., and other
places will expire. A meeting between
the two sides will probably be held in a
day or two.
ALL QUIET IN MILF0RD.
Mrs. Smalley was a sister of Frank P.
and Benjamin Sartelle of Barre, who
left this morning for Rockland on re
ceipt of the news of their sister's death
Stranget Entering Town Would Not
Know 300 Men Were Idle.
Milford, K. II., March 3. The second
lay of the CTanite workers' strike passed
off quietly. There were no developments
and none is expected at present. There
is a meeting every morning at the granite
cutters' hall of both the cutters' union
and the quarrymen.
A stranger coming Into town would
not know that over 300 men were idle.
WOMAN GETS $1,250.
MRS. CATT A SPEAKER.
At Vermont Equal Suffrage Convention
in Burlington.
Burlington, March 3. The first con
gressional campaign of . the Vermont
Equal Suffrage association, in connection
with the National Anrican Women's
Suffrage association, and the ninth cam
court at Norfolk
Consequently, the court will be allowed
to interpret the Prussian -American
federal constitution, were inaugurated
here yesterday.
The principal speakers were Mrs. Car
rie Chapman Catt and Mrs. Susan W,
Grave Menace to Steamship Traffic in
Atlantic Reported.
London, March 3. A Stockholm dis
patch to the Morning Post says that, ac
cording to a message from Karlskrona,
Sweden, a whole mine field of seventl
hundred mines is drifting from the north, son "1 told him that his position w-as
having presumably been set adrift by the
ice and wind.
The message adds that explosions are
occurring hourly and that navigation in
the neighborhood of the Swedish islands
i8 perilous.
Armament on British Merchant Ships So
Intended.
London, March 3. The British admir
alty last night officially made public the
-admiralty's orders to armed merchant
men, irivcn Octidier 20. 1!)15. The or
ders ,4iv that the armament of such ves- i '"T:
FLORIST'S SON ARRESTED.
sure in the House.
Senator Gore said yesterday afternoon
in support of his resolution:
"I introduced this resolution because I
was apprehensive that we were speeding
headlong uion war.
"Perhaps I ought to go further and
say what I have hitherto avoided, saying
that my action was based on a report,
which seemed to come from the highest
and most responsible authority, that cer
tain pcnutors and members of the House
in a conference with tlie president of tho
I'nited States received from the presi-
treatv, which is claimed by Germany to j Fitzgerald, president and vice president
nroi-idn that fiormnn nrii. i mmnin of the national association. Others who
in American waters indefinitely, "with im-lsPke Mrs. F. L. Rastall of Man-
munitv from legal proceedings instituted Chester Center, chairman of the state
by the original owners in an attempt to congressional committee; President
regain possession of the ship. In await- W Sherwood of St. Albans, of the
ing the interpretation of the treaty bv i v,'rmont association; Miss Emelie
the courts, the state department is act- j Houghton ot M. Albans, state secretary,
iug in accordance with precedent.
I he executive branch of the govern-
and Mrs. O. C. Anhton of Rutland
A resolution was adopted to the effect
Albert Roper Suspected in Death at Low
ell, Mass.
Lowell. Mass., March 3. Albert J. Ro-
aged 27 years, was arrested by the
, uK-ni, vi suni -.., . , . . - .i f .:.... :t i .1 .., - 1:
sels must be used solely for resisting at. i P nigni on cn.n o me mur- ......i ...., h., mrauon.
. , i.. n , i , i . ler of his father. Alltert Roper, the that, if Germany insisted upon her posi-
other purpose. As British submarines T kBhury florist, who was found deadM.on the I mted Sta tea .would insist upon
and aircraft are ordered not to approach '," " cf l" Krcenhoiises last ednes- . her pna.tnn and that it would result
merchantmen, the orders sav, the aP- da,,,":l't: , -. lrolbly in ab reach of diplomatic rela-
i. , n,:,- i, ... .",,., ' i lhe primmer states that he was m tions. and that a breach of diplomatic re-
lul.marine i- to he regarded as done with 1ut".n Rt the time of the murder and latinna would probably be followed by a
a hostile intention.
ment alwavs ha refrained frnn, infr. I that the state association asK me er-
fering w ith' the judiciary in such cases. I ,m,nt congressional delegation to vote
It is believed the cae of the Appam !for the 'lVPt,on of the Anthony amend-
ultimately will reach tlie supreme court, i
no matter what may be the division in
Verdict Awarded for Attack By Bull in
Pasture.
Burlington, March 4. The jury, which
has spent the letter part of two weeks'
time listening to the case of Hattie E.
Moses against James K. Howe in United
States court for the district of Vermont,
returned a verdict last night for the
plaintiff to recover $1,250 for damages
received when a bull belonging to the
defendant attacked her as she was cross
ing a field in which the animal was pas
tured.
Tho arguments were completed about
noon yesterday and the case was given
to the jury by Judge Howe with a brief
charge. The jurors came in for instruc
tions at about 5 o clock and returned
the verdict about nine anil one-half hours
after the case had been placed in their
hands. Final judgment was not given by
the court last evening, and it was inti
number of young men who have attained
their majority since April 1. 1015.
After a session no less busy, if not
quite so prolonged as the two previous
meetings, the board adjourned last night
until 5 o'clock Tuesday morning. The
following justices of the peace were ap
pointed to administer the oath to ward
officers in the various polling places on
the morning of election day: Vard I,
A. A. Sargent; ward 2. James F. Hig
gins; ward 3, W. D. Smith; ward 4. W.
J. Blackmore; ward 5, Stephen Rizr.i;
ward 8, James Mackay. Meanwhile, ths
revised checklists have been handed over
to the printer and practically the last
opportunity for registering has passed.
The total checklist is 2,062, a gain of
66 over last rear.
1016. 1915.
Ward 1 367 35
Ward 2 3S3 37
Ward 3 458. 433
Ward 4 334 322
Ward 5 279 281
Ward 6 241 224
2,062 1,00(1
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mrs. Lionel Mathewson of Montpelier
is spending a few days in this city as
the guest of her father, James Tassio
of West street.
Alexander Kesson of Maple avenue,
who is convalescing from a severe at
tack of pneumonia, was able to resumo
his duties in the I'nion Drv Goods storo
yesterday.
A class meeting of the Vermont chap
ter of the New England Telephone so
ciety was held Wednesday evening. Thn
evening was taken up with a study of
mated by the attorneys for the plaintiff , standard specifications, an open meet-
the district court. Should the court de
cide, however, that it has no jurisdiction
in the matter, the decision of the de
partment may be made public immediately.
EXPLOSION AIDED FIRE.
Office of Providence Journal Damaged
Last Night.
Providence, R. I., March 3. A fire of
uncertain origin, accompanied by a small
explosion, caused damage of 2.NMt in the
office of the Providence Journal last
niuht. The blae started in the office of
DIED IN WASHINGTON.
Annie
of Ar-
Scott Was Native
broath, Scotland.
Annie Scott died this morning at
2:45 o'clock at the home of her sister.
Mrs. Jennie Wilson, in Washington, after
that they might make a motion to set
the verdict aside.
Raymond Mangan, who broke into the
positoffice at Center Rutland on Christ
mas eve, was in court and pleaded guilty
to the charge filed against him in the in
dictment made out by the grand jury.
He obtained but a few pennies at the
time of the break. He Was sentenced to
serve three months at hard Ialor at the
house of correction at Rutland and was)
fined $1 without costs.
WOMAN LONG CONCEALED
Had Been Lying Under Bed in Her Brook
field Home for 20 Hours.
Aftnr twiner liiilden for 911 limira Afita
an illness of 18 months. She was born Marv K-nian, who resides in the Me-
in Arbroatn. rvotianu. snout z years rmtt neighborhood in Brookfield .whs
1 ... i.;.- : , uA.i,n. .- n,l - ,.e
, , . t . .1 1 , .. :. ,r i jthe nirttiHjfini! editor, inona me nrwa
Tl.- otlu ial ttfttenu-nt rends in part -""; - ?K "hih ' 7'" V V" m.ht tiW an.! nPmil to another of the
... know the rinsoner ml imateK- lino iilen- evil to this reniiblic. but that flip I n f,1 I . 1
of the rent issue by the '''ln !""r""" sa boarding States by entering upon war now might
memorandum 1 " " " i rr in lewkMiury, wen- im hihp in unrig n i' a conclusion lv
nigni anoni u:.j. o cluck, the mid-uinmer and thus render a great
as follows:
"In view
German government of a
,.i,;. ih. ..Imlr.lf. h.. t " ""' ''" K"I"T supposed service to civilization.
j , . , " !...- 1 . i i ti.. f..u : a
r l c i in til u I t'U. J lit1 ItillHW III'' MniHMD'lll
neln v
GUILTY OF MANSLAUGHTER.
public the instructions actually govern
ing the actions of British merchant ves-K-l
armed for self-defense:
"The riirlit of the. crew of a nien luint
vrel to forcibly retitt visit and search' Louis Bianchetti Strangled Woman in
and fiVht in wif-difense is well reoog
r.ied in international law and expre-sly
admitted by the Ct-rman prize regula-
Cleveland Hotel.
Hot-flan.! Mur.-li 1 I...,!.. lli....l...ti; I
1i.'n in an ao lfndum issued June, 1314.
at a time whrn it was known that num
T"ii merchant vessel, were being armed
for elf defenw
"ArTangeme: t is Hipphed aoiely for
tie piine -f resisting attack bv an
DENIES WILSON WANTS WAR.
....
rmed nemy ed and mint not W p
t s1 ffr any ' r rurpoM hf sorter.
"Rule to I V rtf-1 in f; e irrri-'
f the r-ght .f ,f f.t
such nv-anine could ! attached.'
icciis-.l of strangling to death Ifcdore I - -
Evens in a bi't-l lure January 1, was
convicted la-t niglit tf niMii-linu-l t.T. tlie
,jury returning the verdict ait.T i Chairman Flood Issues Statement Re
hour delibcrat ion. lie w charged
with first degree murder. He claimed tl.a
to r'b him.
editorial rooms
A statement given out by The Journal
said the explosion which occurred a few
minutes after the fire started, filled the
. i renin with flame which shot through the
-i-i... :.. r . ,
i,in in win, ii im- nre originates
av
the statement, "and there were no rlec-
itrin l I r .1 . f 1, . -I1 1 1 1 I w ...... V . T 1.-.. . , - .
'tl,eresidenta..thoried an unqualified j (v, h(. nUmttw
...-,.., ... ... ....-., - 10 .men ny.
.lute yesterday at the White Huc:
"When the attention of the White 11 i i . .
,. - , , . ; had leen unoccupied for two hours.
I fating Report Heard By Gore,
j Washington. 4. C, March 3. Chair
run Flood, who i one of the White tie ennclusion
j House cniferc- on the nigl.t the pre-i-i
dent was stumped to have nid- tf e
linn- will be a Li'iiUr m.-etiia of C ' Mt?mcnt attributed t" him bv ermt r
Clerks' Notice.
priiikli-rs isgun to oicrte the water
i si-emcd to add to the intensitv
I. vines.
"Tin- prompt arrival of the fire de-
i f mot: t and the tie of cl.etni, l encine
choked the fire, which tn subdued in
half an hour. Aftr invest n. the
ds. d. partmcrt last niglit arrived at
Cut t'.e fire could not
have hrrn of t S-i f jI origin."
ago and came to the United States 25
vears ago, residing for zO year with
Mrs. Wilson. She is also survived by a
brother, Alex Scott, and a sister. May
Svtt both of Washington. Although
a home body and devoted to its interests,
she also made many friends outside.
Funeral arrangements are not yet completed.
TALK OF THE TOWN
George N. Tihlen of the Tilden Shoe
company went to Burlington yesterday
on a brief tMisinrss visit.
(ieorge H. Col lamer of North Main
street left to-day for a brief visit at
his former home in Shelhurne.
Funeral services for little Mary Cano,
daughter of Mr. am! Mrs. Joseph Cano of
of the Granite street, whose death yesterday
was ilue to burns w Inch r-hf received aa a
result of falling into a pail of scalding
found yesterday afternoon under a bed
in an unused room in the house where
she and her brother, Oi in Freeman, live.
There was a rope around the woman's
neck and the rope was attached to tlie
bed, but the woman lay on the floor so
that the weight of her body did not come
on the rope. The woman's mouth, ears
and nose were stuffed with cotton. Miss
Freeman hail been in poor health for
some time. She is 4:1 years of age.
When Orin Freeman returned home
late Wednesday he eonld not find his sis
ter, and it was not until yesterday after
noon that the aeanhers thought to look
under the led in the unused room. Then
ing giving opportunity for question and
discussions.
Robert Gordon headquarters are to bo
opened in Scampini block Saturday aft
ernoon at 2 o'clock. Any voter living
anywhere he cannot conveniently get to
the polls w ill be cared for if he will leave
his name at the Robert Gordon head
quarters. Mr. and Mrs. Louis Philbrook will meet
! the full chorus of their new musical play
IU1 rrilcmsMi in iv. ui v. iimii nv I :o vio
evenirg. The play selected is "The lsln
of Smiles," and will review in song and
satire the leading events of the past
year. Mr. Philbrook made a trip to New
Vork last week and arranged with Tom.
Collins, stage director for the Frohman
enterprises, for the use of songs and
sketches from the reigning Broadway,
musical successes, among them the "Zieg
feld Follies," "Watch Your Step" and
"Hip! Hooray!" the big Hippodronio
siM-dacle. "The Isle of Smiles" will bn
presented at the Barre opera house under
the auspices of the Hibernian ladies on
March 16 and 17 and tickets are now in
the hands of members.
Barre people are in receipt of letter
advising them of the death of Charle
Ossola. formerly of this city, who died
at bis home in Viggiti, Italy. January 17.
Mr. Ossola was ti4 years of age and for
several years prior to bis return to th
land of his birtb four years ago, he wa
prominent in the Italian colony of thi
it)-. He was a kinsman'' of Joseph l.
thev found the woman. Dr. Cross of
Williamstown was called to attend Mi-s;os,,la t,f Xorth Main street and al'
Freeman and it is not thought that anyl(.avr a son. Vincent ss,,s, and A
seriou physical result will "follow the jilaughter. Mrs. V. Ihggio in this vicinity,
escapade. the former a resident of Barre, and th
'latter a resident of Berlin. Other near
Miss Both Humphrey entertained the ; relatives Mioiiing are his wii,. and a
were held at the house nirnilwrs f the teachers' training course -c-,.n I son. Antonio Ossola. now of Ray
mond. "!.. who resided in Barre until
water Sunday
this afternoon at S o,l k. Many mem-Jof SpauMing high n-hool at her home on
few vears ago. Mr. Ossola came to Ver
mont -I ypars and immediately s t -
b-rs of th Spanish colonies in Harre and ! Elmore street last evening. An enjoy.
Montrlir a well a several from Web-i able rrocTam bad Ws prepared, which!
terville and tipjr .raniteville. were in included instrumental and vocal solos, tied in I'mTr, where he was employed for
town to -day to attend the ob-onies. ' also recitations hy diiTerent menibera of 'a long time as a blacksmith in the plant
t . ' - .. , I . - . 'i . , 1 I....T.. I,,..t. I . i - , 11. w.. - TI... J - 1 .
I i Mrs s m 'i"!ii-s- i.orai oncrirtii ior.ii r?s-. . , on. o wrci avsoi ouioio a ..'u, i i-
the little fhild. The remains were taken I an early 'tour. a)tr win.h the parte held in bit'i e-ti-em ly Milan pep
ti.arl.s lii-.s of V it!i V..n .lr.t
lfnr pei.!n ir the IVi?-fc cd'wa B. . I. I. A local -'4 1. KnJav . Urch S, Gore, issti. d this statement last nipM : l. ?t ! !v for B' st 'B t.n a h..rt busi- to the t athd-- cemrtry on IWsklfy street brrkc up. all agreeirg to make t lie pleas- in Rarr and lew of Ins death h
uiut I toj-ted; i' murt not le eptnt4 t 7:30 p. m. Pit wJtr Rec, Ssc "Tii president Bw-vcr has said anvtUirj ties tr.p. lor ittrrnuut. ant afTair an annual one. brought sorrow t' man.
V
