rxTT-rourra teajl
CXSUtiAD, NEW MEXICO, sHUDAT. MAR& ft, 111.
NUMBBI It.
fl
KÜDT - COtXNTY DEMOCRATIC
Í COMMITTEE MEETS AND
:, CONSIDERS ALL QUESTIONS
PERTAINING TO THE PARTY.
Data for Primarte Set for JM 17, or
Within Tern Day of That Data or
. a Faw Day Later Tee Mattar
i of Data Beiag Uft With tha Com
mlttee Which Muat Daclda Bafora
March ISth.
RINGING RESOLUTIONS PASSED
ENDORSING THE COUNTY
ADMINISTRATION AS WELL
AS STATE AND NATIONAL.
Former Rule of Party Adopted and
"Entrañe Fea" Cut to . About
One Third of Former Yeara. Be
ing Baaed on Twenty Per Cant of
Amount Allowed by Lew to bo
' Bpaat by Candidate for Expense.
Minute of meeting of Democratic
Contra! committee of Eddy county,
New Mexico, held at Carlsbad, on Sat
urday, February 26th,. 1916, at 10
-L.iW A m . in itiatrirt ftntll-t room
- n - n m.9 4k. akalvwan
the Democratic Central Committee of
Eddy eounty, Neer Mexico, met in the
Mmi ,. M in rrlahaA. at 10
O'clock, a, m., en February Mtb, Ml. Upper Cottonwood achool house.
Mar the following nemed member Upon motion, duly made, seconded
resent In person or by proxy: nd carried, after amendment, it was
-Preelnetlie. It O. M. Cooke, by resolved that Jh EM eounty pri
8. IX ata, Jr. C. N. Jones; J. T. inary alertlon be held on June 17th,
Cooper, y .J. W. Armatrong. Pro- MMf, r?' n,d
.tlrNo.t! C. W. Beeman. Precinct Curry count iea bo asked to hold their
Hoc ti 3j W. Cunningham, by J. M. primaries on same date, and that the
Wood.' : Procloe No. 6 i . 8. T. Burit, halrmen uthortaed to change date
Ire S. 0. 8tennto, Jr. Precinct No. 6: of Eddy county primary ten days ear
BV W.vCftbertj J. H. Jackson; i J. J. Uer or few daya later, If, by so doing.
CJarko, by W. B. Pistole; and C E. the primaries for all counties in t he
Mann. Preeicnt No. It i M. B. Cul. district may be held oo the same date,
tower. Preohv No. S: Lee Middle provided I that such changed date be
Wa?by E. 8. Shattuck. Precinct No. fixed and dec ded upon not later than
Ui t . J. Fletcher. Precinct No. 12: March 16th, 1810; otherwise the data
j;R Hughe. Precinct No. IS: J. C of June 17th, 1910, to aland, ai i the
EatUck, by 8. D. Stonnla, Jr. Precinct "t primary election In Eddy
to. 14. a Rv.n. hv W. R. Owen, eounty; and the chairman instructed
Precinct No. 18: J. W.'Thoma. Pre-
n.-é m tñt N. C. Doerins?. bv G.
W. O'Bannon. Precinct No. 17: E. C,
. Withers. The chairman. D. G. Gran-
'thaia. The eecreUry. J. B. Harvey
lam. ine wmf:Tmvmij, m, u. ..
uln. -..I ,4 ta order bv tha chair-
all four counties of this district on
Committee on resolutions appointed: " aU, a Judicial primary be call
i. a Jackson, J. W. Armstrong and 'or aeparate daU from regular prl
B.C. Withers. mV- Loat for want of a second.
' Committee on credentials: T. J.
Fletcner, a. w. uiiDen ana Aioen
hlka.
Meeting adjourned until 1 o'clock,
P " AFTERNOON SESSION.
Meeting called to order by the chair
man, u. u. urantnam
The reals-nation of J. B. Harvey, as
secretary, waa presented and reaigna-,d to govern the holding of the prl
tion accepted. marv lectlon for the year 1910.
Upon motion, duly made, seconded By motion, duly carried, it was re
and carried. Wm. W. Dean was elected aolved, that the regular ballot used
secretary. Members of the Democrat- ft the coming primary shall carry
ic press elected aaaistant secretaries, blanks to be used for voting for com-
Kealimation OX tJ. JÜ. fllantl. irom
district number six, was presented and
accepted, an4 opon motion, duly made
seconded aVUiirtedlbert Blake was
elected tv-ñf iaeaaey,thus created.
It apftearina- that . vacancies havs
heretofore 'cedrrd. which vacancies
have been filled by appointment of the
chairman, by.motion duly carried, the!
action of the chairman in tilling such
vucancies was approved.
Report of commitee on resolutions
waa presented, .and after amendment,
upon motion duly made seconded and
carried, were adopted, being as fol
lows: "We, your committee on resolutions,
beg leave to submit the following for
your consideration:
"Whereas, Eddy county is In a happy
and prosperous condition, and,
"Whereas, ine county anairs navs
been administered elfeclently and ec-
onomically:
"Be it Resolved, Tht this commit -
tee endorse the eounty administra -
tion of affairs, and
"Whereas, the atate administration,
Insofar a the affair cam under the
control and supervision of the demo-
cratic oflldala, has been honestly and
.ftfoiuntlv aHnilnliitrefi. and.
"Whereas, such administration has 'candidate is allowed by law to expend
'practically stomped out the practices if0"" ' election, being ten per cent of
m of graft and dishonesty in the affairs his annual salary a fixed by law, ex
of the state: cePt that the salary of the county sur-
"Be It Resolved, That we hereby en- veyr h" based on amount of
dorse the democratic state admlnls- $100 annually. Report of this com
tration of affairs and particularly the ' mittee, was by moUon, duly carried,
effort and aeeomnllshments or our,uuHlea'
governor, the Honorable William C.
McDonald, and
"Wher, the national affair have
been so able and conscientiously ad
ministered nnder the most trying and
perilous circumstance within tha hi.
toryof the country, and
"VVihil ttin nrM.nt alfoiAtlnn In
national affair require tha guiding
band of a patriot and statesman:
"Therefore, tsc it Resolved. That wa,"1 eiecnon
most heartily endorse the administra
tion of our President, tha Honorable
Woodrow Wilson, and
"Whereas, Hon. John B. Harvey, of
Carlsbad, New Mexico, has made thU
committee an able and efficient secre
tary from timo Immemorial, and ha
recently boon called to other and more
responsible duties conflicting with hi
I i l.ing hla resignation i
-Ynerexerev oo is bswith, wav uus
committee tender Mr. Harvey tta most
tincara thanks for his past service
to tha coiaitttoo and tha Democrat!
nerty.
"Respectfully submit ted,
"1 n JlrrsoM
"R, C WITHERS,
JOHN W. ARMSTRONG,
"Committee."
' A committee, consisting of 8. D.
SUnnU, Jr., W. R. Bllbrey and C. W.
Baaman, waa appointad by tha chair
to aicort tha new secretary to hit
pout.
Tha report on finance, made by tha
chairman, In absence of tha treasurer,
showing balance on hand Dae. 1, 1914,
of $76.80, with diMburiementa of $24..
60, leaving now on hand $2.05, which
last paymenti were made out of tha
private funda of individual democrats,
waa read and approved, and thanka
of tha committee tendered to those
paying bills properly due by tha com
mittee out of private funda, and auth
orizing their re-imhursement, if their
namea can be ascertained.
Upon motion, duly carried, tha
chairman wai authorlied and Inatruct
ad to have a voting bos placad at
Jal for coming primary election.
Upon motion duly carried, tha chair
man wai Instructed to hava voting
bos for coming primary election plac
ad at Kino-'a ranch.
. MoUon duly carried authorlied and
Inatructed the chairman to have vot
In a box for the coming primary plac
to announce date of such primary by
proclamation, duly published in the
county press, immediately after Mar.
lotn,
Moved bv W. B. fistola, that in
- -- -j -- - . --
lato is not fixed for primary in
un """n, uuiy carnea me com
mitteemen from each district were in
structed to submit to the chairman,
not less than thirty days before date
of primary, a list of names of officers
for primary election at tha voting
boxes of their respective districts.
upon motion, duly made, seconded,
"d carried, the old rules were adopt
' umnn, hib num
ber to be voted for in each precinct
to do oased on allottment or one com
mitteemen for each 100 votes cast for
the Hon. H. B. Fergusson at the I ant
election, or each major fraction of 100
vote so cast, provided that each pre
cinct shall have not less than one coin-
mitteemen
Upon motion .duly carried, it vas
resolved that precinct primaries, or
conventions, be held the last Sul urdny
in March, for the purpose of selecting
delegates to a county convention, the
number of delegates to be based on
allottment of one dclgate for each
fifty votes cast for Iron. H. B. Fergus
son at the last election, provided that
each precinct be allowed not less than
one delegate.
Upon motion duly made, seconded and
carried, the chair appointad
íom"littee conalsting of C. W. lieeman
I Dr- M- B- Culpepper, and W. B. Pistole
1 to present to the meeting a plan of
1 assessment of candidates for holding
the coming primary.
The committee upon assessment of
candidates now reported, and recom-
j mended that each candidate be asses
sed on basis of twenty per cent (20
per rent) of the full amount that such
opted
Upon motion, duly carried it was
resolved that such assessments shall
be paid in to the treasurer of this
committee not less than ten days pre
vious to the date of the primary elec
tion, in order to have such candidates
name printed on ticket, and upon fail
ure or any candidate to so pay hi
aement, hi nam hall be omitted
I from the ballot to be used at said pri
The meeting then adjourned, sublect
to call by the chairman.
D. G. GRANTHAM,
Attest: Chairman.
Wm. W. DEAN, .
Secretary,
Mr. and Mr. Tom Creen, of Loving
ton, came in Sunday and visited Mr.
and Mrs. Robinson. Mr. Green is a
brother of Mr. Robinson. They re
turned to the plains Monday accom-
Eanied by Mr. and Mr. Snider, of
Ilnoral Wall, Texan, who came last
Thursday and ha visited the Robin
son family. Mr. Snider la a sister
of Mrs. Robinson and Mr. Green.
i
PROCCT DINGS OF JUDICIAL big.
' . TRiCT COMMIT! EE MEETING.
i-jfcwo!rNÓtrr! ' : "' " ''
Last Friday tha following chairmen
of the counties constituting the Fifth
Judicial district of New Mexico met
at tha oftVe of R. D. Bowers for the
purpose of organising a district Dem
ocratic committee. D. G. Grantham,
representing the eounty of Eddy; W.
11. Braley, representing the county of
Roosevelt) E. A. Robinson, represen
ting the county of Curry; and R. D.
Bowers, representing the county of
Chaves.
, Upon motion made, seconded and
rnrr'cd, D. G. Grantham was elected
chairman, and R. D. Bowers was
elected secretary; and ft was ordered
that the members be the chairmen of
tlie respective counties and their suc
cessors In office.
Thereupon the question was pre
sented to the committee as to the ad
visability of holding county primar
ies in all of said counties on the
same day. It appearing from the
discussion that the counties of Eddy
and Chaves desired an early pri
mary, and that the counties of Roose
velt and Curry were not in favor of
an early primary, it waa decided that
the chairmen of Eddy and Chaves
counties would recommend to their
committees that the primaries In the
counties be held on the 9th day of
May, 1916; and that the chairmen
of Roosevelt and Curry counties rec
ommend to their committees that prl
marlea be held in the counties on
June 17, 1916; and that in tha two
last- named counties, conventions be
held on March 18, 1916, for tha pur
pose of electing delegates to the
state convention ' to be held May 24.
It was moved, Oseconded and car
ried that the chairman and secretary
of each eounty committee b In
structed to certify to R. D. Bowers,
secretory of the district committee,
tha number of votes In each eounty
cast at said primaries for each candi
dato for district attorney, within ten
days after such primary, aid 'that
said district committee meet and can
vass said reutrns and certify back
to tha respective county chairmen
and county clerks the result of said
canvass in order that the name of
the successful candidate may be plac
ed on the ballots in tha general elec
tion. And in the event of a contest
over such nomination, such contest
KEEP THE CHAPS OFF WITH
SNOWATILLA
THE BEST EVER
All the others, of course, but we
recommend the above
EDDY DRUG STORE
-I'ENSLAR-
ahall be filed with the secretary of
said district organization within ten
day after the canvass of such re
turns, and said contest shall be pass
ed upon and decided by the said Dis
trict committee.
If miau mniDfl. ajtrntiflpfl nnd car
ried that all cundidates for the of-1
fice of District attorney shall tile ,
their names with the Secretary of said
district committee on or before April
17, 1916. And that each of said can
didates be required to deposit with
said secretary on or before said date
the sum of $70 which shall be in lieu
of any further assessment by the
county committees; said assessment
shall be apportioned as follows: $15
to Curry county; $Ü0 to Roosevelt
Kniiniv' 117 r0 to Chavea county:
$17.60 to Eddy county. And the name !
of any candidate shall not be certi
fied by said secretary to tn respec
tive county committees until said as
sessment Is paid.
Mrs. Will Shannon accompanied her
mother and the family to Roswell
Mondav morninsT. where they will re
main for the present Mrs. Cochran
expressed herself as wishing to make
her home in cansosa, as sne always
felt like this was home to her.
REBECCAS MEET.
Mondaya night the Rebeccas met at
the hall. Three new members being
Initiated Misa Ora White, Mr. and
Mrs. T. I. Day. After tha business
was finished a social hour was enjoy
ed. Fruit salad, wafers, coffee and
cake were served.
R. Ohnemus, this week, sold a five
passenger Franklin to Milton Smith
and one to 11. I. Braden. The pur
chaser left yesterday morning for El
Paso accompanied by Mr. Oliver and
Bill Ohnemus, who wilt drive the new
ears home and givo Messrs. Braden
and Smith lesson on how to operate
them. They will return by way of
Queen. '
EDDY COUUTT HOSPITAL NEWS.
Miss Francis and Master Henry Foo
ter were both operated on Teusday and
are getting Olong nicely.
Mrs. J. 8toke was taken to the
Metropolitan hotel where she will re
main for one week before) going to
Loving-ton.
Mrs. W. Snyder, of Lakewood, un
derwent a serious operation February
20th. Her friends will be pleased to
know she Is doing very well.
Mr. L. Eestwood eamo down from
Elida to Uke his wife home in a few
day.
Mr. Lowell Green, of the Blue
Springs ranch, was brought In suffer
ing with blood poison in the left
arm.
The little daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
E. V. Albritton was operated on Feb.
2tlth, and removed to her home this
same day.
Master Wm. Polk, of Queen, was
operated on for sppendicilis February
2th and was taken home today.
Mrs. F. Miser and daughter left the
institution Tuesday but will remain
in town several weeks.
ANDERSON SAN ATAKIl'M.
Mrs. H. R. tteslng, of Amarillo, Tex
as, submitted to a very critical oper
ation Monday, last, for the removal
of cancer and is convalescing very well
considering her advanced age.
Mrs. Basing Is Mr. John Cantrell's
mother and came here on a 'Visit one
month aro. .
George Pendleton ha been confined
at the Sanatorium for the past four
days threatened with pneumonia.
Mrs. George Brantley came uprf rora
Pecos on Monday night' trata bring
ing the baby for treatment. v
All other patient are doing nicely
and sitting up. t 1 ,
BISTERS HOSPITAL.
E. B. Ely, sufficiently recovered to
go to the ranch.
Claud Halo, of Amarillo, I improv
ing. Mrs. E. J. House, of Sulphur Springs
Texas, who has been very 111 was dis
missed the 20th of February and re
turned to her home in Pinon, N. M.
E. P. Marsh was treated for bron
chial trouble on the 18th and is do
ing well.
AT THE COTTAGE 8ANITRIUM.
Mr. and Mrs. Siffurd, rf Memphis,
Tenn., have one of Mrs. Dishman'
sanitary cottages. They are both
health seekers and are enjoying the
sunny days.
Mr. Horsha alho has one of the
cottaices. He came here some time
U)!u from Truverse City, Michigan,
and tried keeping bachelor quarters,
but found be was losing strength.
Since he has been with Mrs. Lliuhman
ho is feeling murh better.
Tracy & Simpson yesterday shipped
5.10 fat ewes to Kansas City, llillery
Boyd goiiiK with the sheep. These
ewes were fattened on kadlr corn,
ground alfalfa and will average close
to 1 1 pounds each. They will probab
ly bring about 7c.
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas from Mound
Valley, Kansas, came in yesterday and
are going to make thoir home in the
Valley. Mr. Thomas is here for the
climate. Mrs. Thomas Is a sister of
Mrs. G. B. MonUky, who lives near
Malaga. They have been driving a
service car for some time between here
and Malaga and are well known to
most all of the Malaga folk.
J. R. Plowman, wife and children,
also hi mother, Mr. Plowman, made
a trip to Hope Tuesday, going in Mr.
Montiyky's car. Mr.I'lowman and the
driver returned the tarn day, and the
ladle are making a week's visit in
Hope with Mrs. J. R. Means. Mr.
Plowman will drive his car to Hope
later and bring the folk home.
Miss Altha Harris returned from
a visit In Roswell Monday afternoon.
Her aunt, Mrs. Llge Merchant, did
not return and will bo there this week.
Dont kill y oar wife; let us do your
amy wore-.
CARLSBAD STEAM LAUNDR7.
Christian A Co, INSURANCE.
I . U DEAD
I'AKES home IN TALLEY.
Pat Morrison and wife, who have
k... I - . .1.1.
twii iivii bill, wiiiwi, IV( viiiii.v.i;.!
benefits for Mrs. Morrison, hava trad
ed their property in Coyle, Oklahoma,
for the old Pete Corn place near Lake
wood. They bought of Mr. McCarthy,
who owned the place, 100 hens, three
cows and calves, four horses, 250 bush
els of Indian corn, 100 bushels of kaffir
corn, 2.ri0 bales of hay, a well-filled silo
and seven head of hogs. Alt the farm
implements and household and kitchen
furniture were also purchased. They
went up on the early train Thursday
mominir to Uke up the routine of
work Mr. Morrison says he enjoys.
They have three diiuu'htrr who are
teachers who will join their 'parents
here In the near future, alao a son
In Denver, Colorado, who la coming
to see the wonder land of sunshine.
ONE OF PENDLETON BOYS
GOING FURTHER ON.
Tom Pendleton was In town this
week, coming from Mondment to
which place he is returning today to
gather his horses and get them ready
for the trail. We regret toeay that
Tom and his family are leaving Ah
country, going out 75 miles south-wpst
of Hachita, and 75 mile east of
Dick Baas. He is well pleased with
the country nnd has taken p land
near n post office called Walnut
Eprlnrs. Tom will gather hi horses
and drive thm here and meet his
wife, who Is now with kerparents and
sister In Dog Canyon. iTWsy will go
across the country and drive the hor
ses. They go with great hopes for
future prosperity and the Current will
follow to bring them good tidings of
the friends In Eddy county.
PARTY FOR J. RUYTS.
The young people of Otis gave John
Ruyts and his brother a party last
evening, assembling at his home and
spending the evening playing game
After the games delirious refresh
ments were served. John has traded
his property at Otis for Oklahoma pro
perty and he and his brother are go
ing away the first of next week.
John has been in the Valley a num
ber of years and has always proved
himself an industrious and congenial
youner man, and Me sneny friends wish
him prosperity in his new home.
CARD OF THANKS.
We wish to publicly thank all the
dear friends and people of Carlxhad
irenerally for the sympathy and as
sistance given us in the buriul of our
dear, departed husband and father.
MRS. W. F. COCHRAN.
AND FAMILY.
12 O'CLOCK DINNER.
Mrs. J. II. Hepler, pf Loving, en
tertained with a sumptuous 12 o'clock
chicken dinner Sunday, honoring her
two visiting dmiphter, Mrs, Curien,
of California, and Mrs. Walter Smith,
of Kl I'uxn, Texas, who are expected
to retm n to I huir homes In the netr
future. IteHule her family and the
two vintiup daughters, the other
Kuents were Mimet Klxie and N'ainma
Will Hh. Mesura. Charles I'ardue anil
Claud Jenkins.
LUNCHEON BRIDGE.
W. T. Reed and wife entertained
Tuesday eveninir at their home, eight
table playing bridge. The ladies'
prize for hiirh score was won by Mra.
Jackson a handsome cut kIbss vase
and the gentlemen's prir.e was curried
off by Mr. Scott Etter a lovely smok
Inor set. At the rinse of the games, a
delicious salad course was served at
the individual card tables. This was
one of the pleasant features of the
week and we regret we can not give
the guest list.
PARTY AT LOVING.
Tuesduy evening two cars motored
to Loving from Carlsbad to attend
the dunce given ut Mr. Muggridire's
bachelor quarters at thut pi am. Mr.
and Mrs. lledrick chaperoned. Mrs.
Joe Hunch accompanied the young peo
ple from town. Selected numbers on
the Vlctrola were river, and enjoyed
very much. Those present spent a
delightful evening and were served
delicious cake and Ice cream.
Mesdames R. L. Langford, L. II.
Langford and one other Mrs. Lanirford
whose Initial we failed to get, war
in Carlsbad Tuesday. They came up
from Otia to attend the funeral of
Mr. Crawford.
MARIAN CRAWFORD DEAD.
Marian Crawford died Sunday at
the home of hi son, Calvin Crawford,
near Otis, after a long illness. Ho
waa 78 years of age and died with par
alysis. Ha had been helpless for the
last f Ivo months and had three strokes
of paralysis fhs last on proving fatal.
He had four daughter and on aon, all
war with him, two daughters earning
from Arliona, tha Mesdames Beams.
Ho was buried In tho Carlsbad cem
etery Tuesday forenoon, Rev. George
E. Realty, officiating.
Tha Current extends sympathy to
tho sorrowing children and relative
of tho family.
Christian Co. INSITRANCB.
ANOTHER OLD TIMER GONE TO
JOIN THE "SILENT MAJOR
ITY." LARGE FUNERAL LAST
SUNDAY.
First Troaeurer of Eddy County and
Later County Assessor. Had
Many Friend and no Enemies.
W. F. Cochran, better known as
"Hoolle" died Saturday morning In
Roswell of pneumonia, after an illness
of fifteen or twenty days.
"iloolie' was practically a young
man, was born in Lincoln county, Mis
il our i. December 9th, 18i2, and died
iSaturdnv at 1 : :!0 a. m.. Kebruarv 2fl.
l'.ilti, making the deceased fifty four
years of aire. He was well known
throughout the I'ecos Valley, coming;
to New Mexico anon after his mar
Wage, which occurred in Missouri, to
his present wife, Miss Mary C. White,
in 1HH7.
Mr. Cochran had been in New Mexico
before his marraige, but returned to
the state and has made his horn hem
and reared hi family, living first
in Old Seven Rivers, from there ha)
moved to Carlsbad in 1800 and waa
the first county treasurer of - Eddr
county which office he held far four
years and was afterwards elected as
sessor in which office he served two
years, going out Jan. 1. 1900. I Ho
then moved to the mountain near
where Queen la now. This waa ahont
sixteen years ago. At that tune bo
had a good bunch of cattle and tho
ranch la on of the best' for cultiva-
.ion, for an orchard and Indian com
in that vicinity. From thera they
again came to Carlsbad for school
advantages. They lived In Malaga
El I'eao. Amarillo, and Roswell,: at
which place he died of pneumonia.
tie leave a faithful wife and nine
children to mourn hi loss, alao as
aged mother, who lives In Colorado.
Texas; a brother, Pliny Cochran, who
cuma up from Colorado to see hi
brother, being here for the funeraL
right of the children were here: The
oldest son, Pliny Cochran, of Fillmore,
California, being the only one absent.
Mr. Will Sherman, and little son of
Kl Paso, Mrs. Tom Middlelon and lit
tle duughter of Queen, Mrs. Clyde
Egbert and little duughter of Malaga,
with their husbands, were present and
the unmarried children who are with
their mother are Misses Ve, and FJixa
beth, and tho baby trirl, Nina, and two
boys, Champ and Shelby. When tho
train drew up at the station Sunday,
thirty or forty automobiles were wait
ing to assist the family in any way
possible. Mrs. Thayer's big Chulm
er car was there to carry the family
to any place they were going. Tho
hearse conveyed the liody to R. M.
Thome's undertaking parlors where
it wits looked after and those who'
hud known Mr. Cochran for so many
years had a glunce at the familiar
face. From there many old friends
joined the procession to the City cem
etery where he was. Inid to rest. Tho
nail beurers were: W. K. Owen, Y.
It. Allen, Johnie Stewart, L. G. Ry
an, I.. Anderson, Ned Shattuck. Many
beautiful (lowers covered the casket
"Iloolie" as he wns familiarly called
was known from Kl I 'a ho to Amarillo
und having lived in New Mexico for
thirty odd yvurs. and leuves many
friends und ucquuintances, with whom
the Curnpit joins in nliering con
dolences to the bereaved family. "
NOTES.
Kriil iy a wire came that Mr. Coch
ran was very 111, and there was one
chunco for his life the operation on
the lungs by the insertion of a tube.
A car was sent frjin the Ohnemus
Shops to meet the mail car. which it
did und brought the mail and pusxen
gurs to town, while Mr. (íieenlec went
back to Queen nnd on to Tom Mid
dleton's home to bring him to town.
He got here in time to get the train
that night for Roswell and returned
with the fumily ami his wife Sunday
afternoon. Mr. and Mm. Tom Mid
dleton returned to their homo Tuos
duy on the mail cur.
Mrs. Hyde Kirhort accompanied her
' Uncle Pliny Coehrun to ltocll Sut
l unlay niirht. Mr. Coehrun enme In on
the I'ecos train from Colorado, Texas,
where his mother Is in very feeble
health. As ho ca,.-,r through Miilae"
his niece, Mr. Clyde Kirliert, Joined
him. They came to f'nrlsbud and left
.that tilght on the 11:1ft train for Ros-
well, returning here the next day to
attend the funeral. Pliny returned
on the train Monday to Colorado, Tex
as, and Mr. Egbert and husband to
, their horn near Malaga.
J. D. Walker made a trip to Cooper,
going Monday and spent the night at
San Simon ranch and returned Tues
day. TRIP TO COOPER.
Whit Wright, and Joe Cunningham
left for Jal and Cooper last Monday
In Whit' Bulck. They found the sand
had drifted Into the road and the wind
blew such a gale one could hardly
stand to be out. However, they made
tho trip, getting home Tuesday.
Friday afternoon Ram Carder went
out to Queen to tell Buferd Polk about
hi little aon, Buster, being ill and
to bring him to town to bo hero when
he was operated on. Mr. Polk mum
down on tho ear that day, hearing
that Boater wm 111. H stood U
operation, nnd 1 doing fine.
I.
