rm Owosso Times
PAGES 1 TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. MARCH 3. 1916.
NO. 49
EASTER BALL AT ARMORY
Capt. Parkor Announces April 25 As
Data of Opening; New Building.
Capt. J. O. Parker of Co. H an
nounced Saturday that the military ball
ooening the new armory will be held
April 25. Morehouse's orchestra will
famish music and tickets will be sold
at f 1 for each person. .
Reo's Win.
The big indoor base ball game of the
season was played Monday evening at
the Odd Fellow temple when the Reo's
of Lansing defeated the American Mai
lables team of this city 6 to 5. The
Lansing crowd came on two special
interurban cars accompanied by their
band and almost every conceivable
kind of noise making instrument, and
they worked them to a finish except for
a few innings when their team seemed
hopelessly beaten.
Up to the eighth Inning the game
was all Owosso's way but the Owosso
pitcher Brown, gave out and in the
eighth and ninth the visitor's scored 5
runs winning 6 to 5.
The attendance was about 800.
Protection of Birds.
The Owosso Woman's club and the
Shiawassee Sportsmen's association
have arranged for an address on March
9. in Owosso by Mrs. Munger, state
secretary of the Michigan Audobon so
ciety, who will talk of the necessity for
measures of protection of insectivorous
birds.
Republican Caucus.
- The Republican electors of the town
ship of Shiawassee will meet in caucus
at Sherman's hall in the village of Ban
croft, on Monday, March 6th, 1916, at
3 0C1UCK BiauutMU time, iur mo pur
pose of , placing in nomination candi
dates for the several township offices
and such other business as may prop
erly come before the caucus "
By Order of Twp Committee. .
Dated. Twp of Shiawassee this 26th
day "Of February? 1916. ' ' ,
Circuit Court. '
Judge Sharpe in the circuit court has
granted a divorce to Mrs. Mabel Mnrner
from Almon Murner of Pontiac. No
alimony was asked. The couple were
married in Owosso eighteen years ago
and although her husband has earned
from f 15 to $20 a week he failed to sup
port her and had degenerated into a
hard drinker. Two children born to
tiem are dead. A decree was also
given Mrs. Stella Crampton of Owosso
on a cross bill from Marion Crampton.
They have one child eight years old.
He claimed his wife absented herself
from home without explanation and
failed to keep the home up. She re
plied that he had a sullen disposition
falling to speak to her or the child for
days at a time and they finally parted.
Judge Sharpe sitting forjudge Miner
last week granted Mrs. Leila A. Wea
ver of Detroit, a divorce from Charles
8. Weaver, both formerly of Owosso.
The decree included an award of $1395
alimony. The Weavers, including her
daughter by a former marriage, and his
son by a former marriage were well
known in Owosso for a short time when
he conducted a bucket sbcp here. Later
they left and his whereabouts are un
known and his wife says he became a
drunkard and a cigarette fiend. Mrs.
Weaver is working in Hudson's store
in Detroit.
Files in the case of C. B. Ensign vs.
Merlin F. Shepard of Owosso township,
were ordered sent to Celcago by Judge
Sharpe in the circuit court Friday. A
note given by Shepard for a cream
separator which proved unsatisfactory
is the cause of the suit and it is being
heard in the district court in Cook
county, Illinois.
Judge Sharpe has refused to grant
Absolom Hallowell aged 86, a divorce
from Jane Hallowell aged 72, deciding
that sufficient grounds were not proven.
Hallowell will start another suit, this
time for annulmeot on. the ground that
his wife was married in 1860 to a circu
performer, who soon disappeared, and
no divorce has ever been granted. She
was later married to Henry Eldridge
who died several years ago.
McCullough-McCullough.
Married, at the home of the bride'
parents in this city, Thursday after
noon, Mr. John McCullough of Detroit,
and Mr a. Zoe McCullough of this city,
Rev. B. O. Mattson officlatlog. They
will reside on the farm of the groom
near Detroit. Mm. McCulloujh has
been an employee of The Times for
several years and her departure is a
matter of regret, although all con
nected with the office unite in extjnd
Ing heartfelt congratulations and all
good wishes to iMr, and Mrs. McCul
lough. i
"DOTS" WIN THIRD VICTORY
NO LOCAL OPTION ELECTION
Mandamus Asked by "Wets" Denied
By Supreme Court Court
Unanimous In Opinion.
The supreme court has settled the
fact that there will be no election this
year upon the question of local option
for Shiawassee county and this may
mean for many years as state wide
prohibition may do away with county
elections on the liquor question. The
court was unanimous in denying the
mandamus asked by representatives
of the liquor interests to compel the
supervisors to meet and rescind the
action at the January session in
throwing out the two petitions from
New Haven township and the four
presented from the fifth ward of
Owosso, to count the names on one pe
tition from each, which would leave
a sufficient number of signers, and to
call the election. The court decision
sustains the opinion given the super
visors by Prosecuting Attorney Pulver
to the effect that but one petition can
he presented from a precinct and that
when more are filed all from the pre
cinct are void. Thus the action of the
special committee of the board of su
pervisors is proven to be in exact ac
cord with the law and the vote of the
board refusing to call the election is
approved.
The "dry" forces of the county are
greatly pleased with the decision of
the court and are warm in their ap
proval of the manner in which the
supervisors and Prosecuting Attorney
Pulver handled the matter. Credit is
also given R. D. Matthews, of this
city, who apepared as the attorney
of the Anti-Saloon League before the
board. It is the third victory of the
Anti-Saloon forces of the county with
in five. months.' .
v ENROLLMENT AT PRIMARY
Provided For In New Law Each
Voter Must Announoa Hie Party. .
The new election law enacted as an
amendment to the primary law of 1909
contains several important provisions.
Instead of a blanket sheet such as was
required In the old law, sometimes so
large and complex as to be exceedingly
awkward, and hard to vote because 1c
was hard to understand, the new law
provides for separate ballots for each
party. The registered elector asks for
a ballot of such party as he wishes.
His name and party and the number of
the ballot are thereupon recorded by
the election board. He takes his ballot
and goes into the booth and marks it in
the same manner as on- any primary
election ballot placing a cross before
the name of each candidate for whom
he desires to vote, or he may insert the
name of some other person not on the
ballot provided he does not insert the
name of any person on some other bal
lot, but such person so voted for shall
not be deemed . nominated unless he
shall receive at least five per cent of
the vote of his party at that election.
For illustration, suppose that the
Democratic party were thoroughly
satisfied with the probable nominee of
the Republican party for a county office
and should fall to put any one forward
at the primaries and that some one
voter cast a single vote for some person
that vote does not count unless enough
others vote in the same manner to make
one twentieth of the votes cast 1 1 that
election for that party.
The poll book of the voters for each
party seems to constitute -the enroll
ment. Peer-Cope.
The marriage of Claude Cope, of this
city, and Miss Lillian Peer of Chesan
ing, was solemnized in Saginaw, Sun
day. They have returned to this city
and are living at 423 N. Saginaw street.
The groom is the son of Mrs. M. Cope
of this city, and has been employed as
salesman in the Chase Boot Shop since
his return from Chesaniog several
weeks ago. Friends extend congratu
lations. The question of new quarters for the
fire department and the purchasing of
motor equipment for the dame will be
again considered at(the luncheon of the
Improvement Association on Tuesday
next. It is expected that an engineer
representing the Michigan Fire Insur
ance bureau will be present to give in
formation regarding fire insurance rates
in cane the proposed changes are made.
He will arrive in the city Monday
morning and will have opportunity to '
make a yery complete survey of the
same before the meeting. It is very
important that jast as many members
as possible should be present. 1
SAFETY FIRST MEETING
Instruction and Pleasure Combined
at Big Gathering Saturday.
The Odd Fellows' temple in this city
was crowded to its capacity Saturday
evening by Ann Arbor railroad men,
their families and others, who came
from towns and cities along the entire
line of the road and received practical
instrnction in the avoidance of acci
dents, and enjoyed the lectures, mov
ing pictures, stereopticon views, songs
and dancing.
Grenerajl Manager A. W. Towsley pre
sided, introducing George Bradshaw,
of Toronto, Ont., safety engineer of
the Qrand Trunk Railroad, who Illus
trated his lecture with stereopticon
slides, showing practices that should be
avoided, and impressed wonderfully on
(he minds of the men how earless ac
tions by the various employees result
in deaths, injuries and damage to prop
erty. Views showing railroad yards in
earlier years, littered with rubbish,
glass, boards, iron and other thing?,
not only unsightly but dangerous, were
shown in present conditions and ap
pealed to those present as ample re
ward for the safety first work and
expense. He said that the drinking
employe was fast being eliminated from
the service and the foolhardy and lazy
employe who jeopardizes the life of
himself and others would be next to go.
Saving time at the expense of safety
was also condemned.
"The Honee that Jack Built," a funny
moving picture, kept the crowd In
laughter as well as portrayed an inter
esting lesson. Miss Florence Mack sang
several songs and was warmly encored.
The audience joined in several chor
uses, the words being thrown on the
screen.
After the program dancing with or
chestra music was enjoyed until mid
night
A special train each way left at 12:30
carrying much pleased employes and
their families.
Death of a Real Pioneer.
Mrs. Agnes M. Van Wormer, aged 79
years, died Feb. 23d at her home in
Durand. She was born in Monroe
county, New York, and came to Ver
non township with her parents when
seyen years of age and had resided in
or near Durand from that time until
her death. She Is survived by a son
and daughter and a foster son.
Death of William Q. Bradley.
William G. Bradley, aged 66 years,
passed away Saturday at the . home of
Jacob Cramer on North Cedar , street.
Mr. Bradley had not been feeling well
but appeared in about his usual health
Friday morning when he went to work.
About 8:30 he was stricken with heart
trouble and was taken home.
The deceased was born in New York
City, and had resided in Michigan for
over 30 years. . About 21 years ago he
came to Owosso and had since made
his home here. He was employed for a
number of years as flagman for the
Grand Trunk and was working in this
capacity at the Washington street cross
ing when stricken. He was a life-Ions
member of St. Paul's Catholic church.
Surviving are a son, Byron R. Bradley
of Flint, a daughter, Mrs. Fred Stur
giss of Owosso, three grandchildren and
one great grandchild. .
The fnneral was held Monday morn
ing at 7:30 o'clock from St. Paul's Cath
olic church, Rev. Fr. P. J. Slone offici
ating. Jolly Fifteen Club.
The Jolly Fifteen club held their
first anniversary at the home of Mrs.
Paul Amos, February 25. All those
present enjoyed a bountiful dinner.
After dinner a few moments were
spent looking at fruits, vegetables,
meats, etc., which were, canned by a
new and practical method. Mrs. Amos
also gaye us an Interesting talk on the
same.
We then opened our meeting by
singing "Flow Gently, Sweet Afton "
Roll call found eleven members present
as well as several visitors. Election of
officers resulted a follows: Pesldent,
Mrs. Gassman; vice president, Mrs D.
G. Warner; secretary und treasurer,
Mrs. A. G. 8pitler; flower and sick
committee, Mesdarnes Pierce and Wil
son; program committee, Mrs Amos.
Mrs. A. B. Jones conducted a con
test, 'Washington Pie." Mrs. Hurst
won as a prize a large portrait of Wash
ington, and Mrs. Morse was presented
with the second prize which was the
emblem of the Implement by which
young George Washington cut down
his father's cherry tree. After a risii g
Vote of thanks we adjourned to meet
In two weeks with Mrs. Gassman.
Contributed.
Embezzler Caught.
After many weeks of watching and
waiting Sheriff Griffin had arrested in
Detroit, Saturday, Waiter A. Sadler,
who it is claimed, collected money
from Clark Shipman of Corunna, on
notes given the Michigan Hearse &
Motor Co. of Grand Rapids, and ap
propriated the proceeds. Sadler is also
said, to be a forger and has collected
money on worthless checks and is on
parole from Stillwater, Minn., prison
for a crime of the same variety.
Sadler claims to be a lawyer, is mar
riedand lived in G.Bnd Rapids and it
was by means of a decoy letter sent to
the Griswold house that he was finally
located. He stayed at the Oriental
hotel but had his mail sent to the Gris
wold. He was located in Grand Rapids
three weeks ago but disappeared before
an arrest could be made.
Sadler demanded an examination
which was set for March 14 and bail
was fixed at $1500. He Is in jail in de
fault of a bail bond.
SUPERVISORS ACTION LAWFUL
Says Supreme Court But One Local
, Option Petition in a Pre
cinct Legal.
Lansing, Mich., March 1. In re
fusing to mandamus the Shiawassee
county board of supervisors to recon
vene and submit the local option ques
tion at the April election, the supreme
court 'today in an opinion written by
Chief Justice Stone settled a much
mooted question that of how many
petitions may be filed from a given
precinct, township or ward.
For two years the construction of
the local option statute regarding
this feature, has been decided several
different ways and circuit courts have
divided on it. A year ago, Attorney
General Fellows decided that where
more than one petition is filed from a
given township or ward, the super
visors should throw them all out. This
happened in the Shiawassee county
case and the "wets" asked for a
mandamus alleging first Jth at such
procedure was illegal ; and second,
that if the law did not permit of more
than one petition from a township or
precinct, one of them must be recog
nized. By counting at least one of the two
petitions from New Haven township,
and one of the four from the Fifth
ward of Owosso, the "wets" had
enough to force a local option elec
tion. The supreme court, however, rules
that the holding of the attorney
general was the proper one, and that
all petitions should be thrown out.
."We cannot agree with counsel in
the contention that more than one
petition or list can be circulated and
a copy thereof posted in one township,
ward, or election district," says Chief
Justice Stone, "under any proper
construction of the statute.
"Let us not be misunderstood here:
We think that any number of head
ings may be circulated in a precinct,
and signed, and if all the headings
are alike and in proper form, and if
they are all attached together, and a
copy thereof posted, and filed as one
petition, t he statute is complied with.
The affidavit or affidavits of the genu
ineness of the signatures and that the
signers are qualified electors may be
attached to each heading, but the affi
davit or affidavits as to the posting
should be attached to the completed
petition after the headings have all
been attached together as one peti
tion, and should refer to it as such.
The difficulty and infirmity here in the
Shiawassee case is, that there was no
proof that the several petitions were
over attached together so as to form
one petition, and as such were ever
posted."
One of the arguments for the
"wets" was to the effect that with
the law really meaning that more
than one petition did not go, it would
he easy for the "drys" to spoil a
submission by circulating and filing
petitions themselves. The court, how
ever, refuses to go into a discussion
of this feature, saying:
"This is purely an academic ques
tion and one that dues not confront
us in this case. No claim is made
that the numerous petitions here
under consideration were the result of
persons hostile to the question of sub
mission, and no question of fraud is
here involved."
According to Superintendent Grant
M. Hudson, of the Michigan Anti
Saloon league, the derision is one of
the most important given' on the local
option question in years. Incidentally
he (inures I hat the decision settles
in favor of the "drys" the arguments
now on in Otsego and Jackson counties.
DISTRIBUTE PLANTS
Stat Normal at Mt. Pleasant Has
Furnished Over 25,000 Trees
In Seven Years.
The Department of Agriculture of
Central State Normal, Mt. Pleasant;
Michigan, is preparing for the annual
distribution of plants Seven years ago
there was planted a few hundred wal
nut seeds and the tree distributed to
the school children of Isabella county
the following year. The idea has iriown
until oyer 5000 trees are distributed
each season, a total of 25.000 trees hav
ing been sent out. These trees are one
year old and will do well when given
ordinary opportunity. There is no rea
son why each farm should not haye
several walnut trees growing on it and
it is only a question ot time when they
will bear abundantly.
The trees are sent by parcel post pre
paid about Arbor Day. They are fur
nished at cost of production and trans
portation, two cents each, no order ac
cepted for less than twenty-five cents.
Last year the distribution of two-year
old Concord Grapes was begun. A
great many plants were sent out and
again demonstrated that one of the
chief factors in planting is a cheap
source of reliable p'ants. These are
sent out a a cost of six cents each, In
cluding transportation, no order ac
cepted for less than thirty cents. Check,
money order, eto , will be appreciated
as a form of sending money as only a
certain amount of stamps can be used
conveniently.
Enters Government Service.
Irving L. Woodin, son of Mr. and
Mrs. L. M. Woodin, of this city, has
been tendered and accepted a position
in the division of markets of the U.
S. Department of Agriculture and
will enter upon his duties in about
two weeks. The apopintment is the
result of a civil service examination
several months ago, taken upon the
request of parties connected with the
government service who knew some
thing of Mr. Woodin 's work with the
North American Fruit Exchange and
his capabilities along several lines of
work which the Department is doing.
Mr. Woodin, who has been located in
New York City for some time past,
resigned his .position with the Fruit
Exchange and is now in Washington
in conference with the chief of the
market division. It has been inti
mated to him that he will probably be
stationed at Chicago. Mrs. Woodin
will be the guest part of next week of
Mr. and Mrs. L. M. Woodin and Irv
ing will probably spend a few days
at home before taking up active work.
The Times extends congratulations to
Mr. Woodin upon his good fortune and
has confidence that he will prove an
excellent official at least, lie made
good while a student in the Owosso
schools, as a rural carrier on one of
the Owosso routes, as student during
his four year course in the Michigan
Agricultural College and in each iosi
tion he has had since, resigning each
to go into something beter.
Death of Theron Taber.
Theron G. Taber, of Canton, Ohio,
who came to Owosso a few weeks ago
because of poor health, died at the
Swnyze hospital Wednesday morning
from an attack of peritonitis. He
had been employed as bookkeeper in
one of the large banks in Canton, but
was forced to retire to take a much
needed rest and with the hope that a
change of climate and out-door work
would soon restore him to health. An
attack of grippe with some other com
plications followed shortly after and
his death resulted as slated. Mr.
Taber was a borther of Mrs. Ellis F.
Wilson and a nephew of Mrs. E. (1.
Osborne, of this city. He was an ac
tive worker in the First Christian
church of his home city and was high
ly regarded by many warm friends.
The funeral services will be held at
the home of E. G. Osborne, East Oliv
er street, at 10 a. m. today, Rev. II.
A. Waite and Rev. J. F. Green officiat
ing. His father, E. A. Taber, of
I trad ford. Pa., had been here for a
week assisting in his care.
Miss Addie Crowe is home from a
month's visit with relatives in Chi
cago. March made its appearance in typi
cal lion-like manner and the weather
prognosticators are ha.ppy in the be
lief that an early spring is assured.
Supervisors Leslie Clark, of Perry,
Guy L. l'radcn, of Hums, and Geo. M.
Dewey, of Owosso, attended a meet
ing of the Michigan State Tax Asso
ciation held in Grand Rapids Wednes
day and Thursday, as representatives
of the board of supervisors. .
Chesaniog Telephone Co. Now Con
nected With the Union at Owosso.
Arrangements were completed Wed
nesday, whereby patrons of the Chesan
iog Telephone Company can now talk
with subscribers of the Union Tele
phone Co. in Shiawassee county by
simply, calling central" and ask to be
connected.
This will be a great convenience to
Chesaning subscribers and will do away
with a messenger service as was neces
sary heretofore. Chesaning Argus.
This connection which was ordered
by the State Railroad Commission is
indeed a great convenience and beside
providing an opportunity for Chesaning
subscribers to talk with people having
Independent phones In this county puts
them in connection with the indepen
dent lines all over the State. Why
should not the Commiasion order these
connections made throughout the state
so that the service would be universal
whether the subscriber had an indepen
dent or Bell phone instead of endeavor
ing to force one company out of busi
ness at competing points? . Order the
connection, give the people the service
as Is contemplated and provided for by
law and it will then be a question of
the survival of the company which
gives each individual community the
best service. The position of the Com
mission in endeavoring to force mergers
or division of territory is an unwar
ranted assumption of power and is a
direct disregard of the law of the State
Local Concern is Bought by Armours.
Announcement was made Wednes
day that the Owosso Storage & Pro
duce Co. made up of Chicago capital
had been taken over by the Armour
company of Chicago, 111. F. S. Smitt
of Louisville, Ky., who Is to be the
local manager, is in the city, and ha3
already taken charge of the com
pany's affairs.
The Armour company plans to
make some Improvements' in the
buildings and equipment it has ac
quired, and will make every effort to
njake Owosso one of its biggest ship
ping points. The company plans to
buy poultry extensively as well as
eggs and other produce.
As the business increases, the com
pany will increase its number of em
ployes and hopes within a short time
to have between forty and 'fifty per
sons at work.
Death of Mrs. Marie May.
After suffering ill health for the
past thirty years Mrs. Maria May
passed away quietly Tuesday evening
at 9:30 o'clock at her home, 212
South Washington street. The re
mains were removed to the home of
William May, 322 North Ball street,
son of the deceased Wednesday aft
ernoon from which place the funeral
will be held Friday afternoon at 2
o'clock. Rev. H. Cansfleld pastor of
the First M. E. church will officiate.
The remains will be placed in the
public vault at Oak Hill cemetery.
Maria Smith was horn in Seneca
county, N. Y., November 25, 1846,
and had spent practically all of her
life in Michigan. She was married to
Hiram S. May in Lenawee county in
1864. Twenty-seven years ago Mrs.
May came to this city from Bronson
and for several years prior to this
time made her home in Morencl, Le
nawee county.
Mrs. May was a true Christian lady
and was held in high regard by a
wide circle of friends. She was a
faithful member of the Methedist
church. Although she had been in
ill health for many years, she was
able to be out among friends until
recently when she contracted
Bright's Disease which was the Im
mediate cause of death.
Besides her husband and son, Wil
liam, deceased Is survived by two
other sons of this city, Sylvester and
Eugene May and the following broth
ers and sisters, Mrs. Malinda May of
Ovid; O. W. Smith of Elsie; Mrs. Ma
llssa Paul, of Morenci and Louis
Smith of Fayette, O.
Jury to Determine Nieessity of Drain.
Corunna, March 1. A Jury has
been drawn In the probate court to
determine the necessity of the pro
posed Augsbury drain In Vernon
township. Charles Van Alstine ob
Jectsslo having the drain put across
his farm and refuses to give the
county drain commissioner a right-of-way.
The jury will convene on
March 7, and in the custody of the
sheriff and circuit court commission
er will visit the drain.
Dr. and Mrs. .1. J. llaviland are
home from their southern trip.
Miss Anna Sea f red, who has for
several years been employed as a
stenographer in the offices of tho
Union Telephone Co.. has gone to De
troit to accept similar work in the
offices of the Maccabees. Several so
cial functions have been given during
the past week in her honor. .
