em's and Citizen EXTRA!
The prophet w. Vi't known in his
own country can Su ; lay the blame
at the door of poor advv fag Proof
IIYDE PAHK, VEKHONT, FRIDAY. HAUCII 3, 1!)10.
N
AN EXTRA !
In order to take care of the extra
amount of special advertising that bas
come to us this week we are obliged
to issue an extra edition. Besides tbe
otdirary reading matter, consider
able space is given to Local Option an
advertising. We commend the same to
our readers' perusal. " THE TIGHT IS
ON," the arguments ate being made and
the jury (the people) will decide the case
next Tuesday. "May the best man win."
ft Everybody ic
Reads ))
Our
Advertisements S
How to Mark Your Ballots?
For the convenience and informa
tion of our readers who desire to
vote quickly and just as they desire
and make no mistake, we have set
up and printed on page 10 a mina
ture set of all the referendum ballots,
showing just how to mark them to
vote as you wish to vote.
Cut this out and fold it up and
put it in your pocket marked as you
want to mark the official ballots
next Tuesday and you will be sure
to vote right. Yellow is the Refer
endumProhibition or Local- Option.
Green is the color of the Direct Pri
mary Ballot.
Regular
v Arlvrhcpmpnts In .
This Paper fi
Are S
Money Makers m
DELINQUENTS CAN VOTE ON REFERENDUM
Supreme Court So Decides In a Test Case from Brookfield.
A Legal Voter Had Not Paid Taxes Before Feb. 15.
The Supreme Court, in the case of
Thomas W.Martin of Brookfield.who
had not paid his taxes before Feb.15,
1916 as provided by Act of the last
legislature, handed down a decision
affirming his right to vote on the di
rect primary and prohibitory laws,
referred to "all the voters of Ver
mont," for approval.
This settles this vexed question for
all towns and cities in the State.
. Delinquent taxpayers can vote.
"Lei Well EoouiiA Aloe"
From every section of Vermont comes reports of an uprising against the adoption of "Perryism 99 by
the voters of the State. The history of the past will be used to GUIDE THE FUTURE. Prohibition has
been weighed in the balances AND FOUND WANTING. The effort to again fasten on the State, the
SHAME, HYPOCRISY and DECEIT of prohibition days WILL FAIL. No-license towns will vote al
most to a unit against an attempt to rob them of the Protection which local-option has Guaranteed. Cast
Your Vote for the Right of Home Rule. Cast your Vote for the Principle of Self Government. Cast Your
Vote for the Right of the Individual to obtain liquors for Medicinal Uses, and alcohol for Mechanical and
Scientific Purposes. Arrayed against the advocates of Perryism are Many of the Leading Newspapers of
the State, hundreds of the Best Known Business Firms and Thousands of the Respected and Honored Cit
izens, including clergymen, lawyers, doctors and laymen. The Protection of the Towns, the Welfare of the
State demand you "Leave Well Enough Alone" and
Vote on ttLO YELLOW Bctllot
Montpelier, Vt, Feb. 19, 1916.
"I am opposed to the 'Perry' bill because I believe the present law al
lows an adequate expression of public sentiment on the liquor question
and that the results under the present local option statute are more satis
factory than they were under the old prohibitory law. While I have al
ways voted against license in Montpelier, I believe the law Is working
very satisfactorily and should not be changed."
. Fred A. Howland.
Wallingford, Vt., Feb. 12, 1916.
"I am in favor of the local option law now in force and hope it will
be continued. It has worked well for Wallingford."
- Dr. 3. II. Miller. -
Swanton, Vt., Feb. 12, 1916.
"I am opposed to the 'Perry Law and very much hope it will not be
adopted by the people, as in my judgment it will not accomplish any good,
but produce much injury to the cause of temperance and tend to corrupt
the whole body politic of our state."
D. G. Furman.
Canaan, Vt, Feb. 19, 1916.
"I believe that the State is better now under the local option law
than it was under the former or will be if the 'Perry' law goes into efr
feet, as under that there will be more drunkness and law breaking than
there Is now."
Dr. W. W. Ker.
Bethel, Vt, Feb. 19, 1916.
"It is an effort for me to walk, but if possible shall be "taken to the
Town Hall and shall gladly vote to retain the present law."
W. T. King.
Milton, Vt., Feb. 28, 1916.
"I shall vote to retain the present law, as I think it is the best tem
perance law we have ever had."
W. G. Newton.
Cornwall. Vt., Feb. 26, 1916.
"I regard our present law as the best prohibitory law Vermont ever
enacted. I shall vote to retain the present law."
E. O. Porter.
Hyde Park, Vt, Feb. 24. 1916.
"I can hark back to the prohibition days and I am frank to say that
I would not care to return to conditions as they existed under that law."
. J. S. Leach.
Jonesville, Vt., Feb. 19, 1916.
"I do not understand how anybody with sound judgment can vote for
such a measure. We have had experience here both of prohibition and
Local Option, and anyone can very easily see the progress all through the
state since we have had Local Option, or since 1903."
Fred Barlow.
Morrisville, Vt, Feb. 12, 1916.
"In my judgment a great mistake will be made if the people vote to
carry this bill into effect."
M. P. Maurice.
Jonesville, Vt., Feb. 21, 1916.
"I am strong in favor of Local Option. It's the only safe and sane
way of handling the liquor question. It has done mere for the cause of
temperance than any prohibitory law could do, and I will do my best to
have all vote 'NO.' "
6. A. Champney.
Cambridge, Vt., Feb. 22, 1916.
"The law Is alright as it is at present."
W. N. Smith,
Deputy Sheriff.
Guildhall, Vt, Feb. 26, 1916.
"I think two-thirds of the voters of this town are against prohibition
and Local Option will prevail."
J. M. Pendrigh.
East Burke, Vt, Feb. 28, 1916
"I shall surely vote 'NO' on March 7th and at all times on this act,
while I never use alcohol nor any other stimulent only for medicinal pur
poses, I surely don't want the 'Perry' Act to pass."
B. W. Streeter.
Hardwick, Vt., Feb. 26, 1916.
"I believe the present law is better than the old Prohibition Law."
W. L. Dow.
East Burke, Vt., Feb. 22, 1916.
"The proposed change to my mind would be a twenty year set back.
Just home from 8,000 mile trip and saw the effect of Oregon nd Wash
ington dry law and it spells defeat to all who try it. Unless we can
make it better, I am in favor or letting well enough alone. And that seems
to be the sentiment in other no-license towns."
W. A. Humphrey.
--- - Lyndon rille, Vt, Feb. 25, 1916.
"I am unalterably opposed to the principle of prohibition. . It has
never prohibited and I do not think it ever can. I believe that the drink
evil will gradually succumb to sane education. I believe also that most,
if not all the evils of the liquor traffic can be lessened and eliminated by
strict enforcement of whatever laws are really intelligent and Just."
John C. Stephenson,
St. Peter's Church.
North Hyde Park, Vt, Feb. 24, 1916.
"I have no use for the 'Perry' Act."
P. A. Parnin.
Johnson, Vt, Feb. 25, 1916.
"I am satisfied that we have got the best liquor law in my remem
brance over 60 years. Let well enough alone is my motto. I shall sup
port local option and do what I can to have others help in my town."
B. T. Ober.
' Belvidere Ctr., Vt, Feb. 25, 1916.
"I am for Local Option, first, last and all the time."
H. A. Slayton.
Hyde Park, Vt., Feb. 25, 1916.
"I am with you in regard to the Local Option as it now stands, and
let us fight for it until the last ballot is cast."
C. H. Bliss.
Johnson, Vt, Feb. 25, 1916.
"I have come to the conclusion that I am living under the best
liquor law I ever did and shall let well enough alone."
W. H. Nye.
Cambridge, Vt, Feb. 23, 1916.
"I have received the 'Perry' bill and I think from our past experience
we would be in a much worse condition from a Prohibition standpoint
than we are now under the present local option law, which I favor."
W. L. Griswold.
Belvidere Corners, Vt., Feb. 25, 1916.
"I am in favor of the present law, and shall do all I can to retain it.
This town has never voted for a license but I think that the majority of
us will vote for the present law."
A. P. Brown.
Johnson, Vt., Feb. 26, 1916.
"I do not believe the 'Perry' Act, if passed, would improve temper
ance conditions in our state."
H. O. Stiles.
Morrisville, Vt., Feb. 26, 1916.
"I stand solid for Local Option, as the law is enforced now."
W. H. Towne.
Johnson, Vt., Feb. 26, 1916.
"What is the matter with the Local Option Law, I say it is alright."
E. M. Davis.
Fair Haven, Vt, Feb. 23, 1916. ,
"While we are strongly in favor of regulation of the liquor traffic, we
feel that the so-called 'Perry' bill Is an extremely vicious piece of legis
lation, and should fall. The present law, if properly enforced seems to
us the best means of such regulation, and we shall do all we can to keep
it on the statute books."
M. Patterson, Treas.,
Eureka Slate Quarries.
East Dorset Vt, Feb. 23, 1916.
"We consider the local option method of handling the liquor traffic
by far the best of any method which we know of, and consider prohibition
very detrimental to the state, as it would take from each and every town,
the fight to exercise their own opinion in the question as to whether
license should exist in that town. To that end, we trust the voters will
favor local option at the polls on March 7th."
G. F. Mooney & Son.
St. Johnsbury, Vt., Feb. 22, 1916.
"Will say Mr. M. M. Counsell, my son, and myself are in no way In
accord with the 'Perry' act, and consider the present law far in advance
of that"
A. E. Counsell & Son.
- ' "A- ; Chelsea, Vt, Feb. 22, 1916.
"To my mind the present Local Option Law is and has since It be
came a law been much more effective than was the so-called 'Prohibition
law' which proceeded it."
Wa H. Sprague.
Lowell, Vt, Feb. 28, 1916.
"I believe that local option is the better plan. While I always vote
'NO' I .believe it is best to let every town have what the majority wish,
and I know that the law is better and easier enforced in this county than
the old law was. I also believe that the majority of this town is in favor
of Local Option."
B. S. Hoadley.
Orleans, Vt, Feb. 19, 1916.
"We are for local option and I think that most of our men are, and
I, myself, think that the people of Orleans are."
E. E. Doe, Supt.
Putney, Vt, Feb. 19, 1916.
"Thanks for the reprint from the IJandolph Herald. For the past
five weeks I have discussed with many fellow citizens of Putney the so
called 'Perry' bill. I have not found one who favors it."
George D. Wheat, M. D.
Arlington, Vt, Feb. 22, 1916.
"I have lived here in town for forty-five years, and we have had pro
hibition and there were more drunks under that law than there is under
the present local option law, and I think it would be a big mistake to go
back to prohibition again."
M. D. Morehouse.
Enosburg Falls, Vt, Feb. 21, 1916.
"I am perfectly satisfied with the present local option law. It is the
only law in my day that has regulated the liquor traffic to any extent."
, Emmet M. McFeeters.
Windsor, Vt, Feb. 15, 1916.
"I could not vote for the drastic inconsistent so-called 'Perry' law.
Our liquor law as it stands to-day has to my mind been very satisfactory
and would regret very much to have it changed."
S. S. Martin, M. D.
Cambridge Jet, Vt, Feb. 22, 1916.
"I have talked with a lot of voters and they are against the 'Perry'
bill. They think it is well enough as- it Is. I shall go against the
'Perry' bill and do all I can to stop it"'
Edwin Manchester.
St Johnsbury, Vt, Feb. 20, 1916.
"I am heartily In sympathy with th present law and shall regard it
as a calamity If changed to prohibition. I saw the working of the old law
for 20 years and of the present one since its enaction and nothing could
make us want to see the old candidates re-established. I think that a
poll of the professional men, including many of the clergy, in this vicinity
would favor the present law. We have kept rum out of this section under
It, other sections can if they wish. The old law never kept it out of any
section and the new one will be equally in-effective in my opinion. I
sincerely wish that we will not go back to the blackmailing conditions of
20 years ago. Officers whose duty It was to enforce the old law, appeared
to suddenly become opulent after a year or two in office."
J. M. Allen.
Morrisville. Vt, Feb. 28, 1916.
"Until some one invents a more effective way to keep liqnor out of
those who drink it for the 'drunk It produces. I believe we had better
leave the present law alone. In the above, you have the unbiased opinion
of a man who can defy any one to deny that he is always strictly temper
ate and Is simply trying, with tbe help of past observations to see things
exactly as they are." F M. Ober.
Vermont has passed the experimental stage. Its citizens are not susceptible to the paid
pleadings of out-of-State orators. Its towns are not anxious to relinquish local control.
Vermonters are able and willing to run the affairs of State. North, South, East, West, join
in the protest,
"LET WELL ENOUGH ALONE" "VOTE NO ON YELLOW BALLOT"
The Hotel
Association of Vermont.
