mi i i
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
'A
nninT1 mnrrt Ti-vrrro ON TRAINS AM) NEW
PRICE TWO CENTS stands - five cents
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1916
1 f? fl
ii r" in ii t J i a it i .x. . a
PJ O 0 0 (11 FfS,
ESIDENTS
SUSTAINED, B8 T0 14
, a
. -
Dramatic Scenes Not Equaled In Se,p Since Declaration
v of War On Spain Witnessed Prece r Vote-Roll Call
J Began at 11:40 and Ten Minutes a& . 0 Seconds Later
It Was All Over-Some Lively Tilts ke Place But
L Debate Is Shut Off . .
Washington, March H. President Wilson's position
in the international situation was upheld today by the
senate when that body voted to table the Gore resolution,
which called for a warning to Americans not to travel on
armed ships, and to which Wilson was opposed.
Gore himself voted to table the resolution so that he
might have an opportunity to ask for reconsideration
thereof.
The vote was 68 to 14 in favor of tabling.
Amid dramatic scenes, unparalleled since the declara
tion of war uDon Spain, the
It was iust 10 minutes and
ing of the fight until Vice President Marshall announced
the vote.
Chairman Stone of the
terday confessed himself not in agreement with all of
President Wilson's views voted "aye" on the resolution
after Senator Borah, objecting to Stone's attempt to ex
ulain Senator Saulsburv's absence, had said:
"I obiect to anv remarks.
the whole senate must be gagged."
Senator McCumber opened the fight unexpectedly by
offering a substitute for the Gore resolution, declaring,
that in view of the question as to the validity of the sub
marine situation it was the duty of every American to
abstain from the right to travel on armed ships until
President Wilson and other countries had agreed on sub
marine matters.
This resolution was tabled.
Thereupon, -Senator James called up the Gore resolu
tion and demanded the ayes and nays on tabling it.
Gore countered with an amendment to his resolution
and asked permission to discuss it. It stated that death
of an American through a submarine attack should be
deemed a cause of war.
ti.: wwl. l.rmr move came as an I
unexpected surprise n it meant prae-
tically n new resolution amounting to!
' " .,
an ultimatum to tho central power.,
mid subsequent developments showed
caused a change of several votes.. Sen-
ator Vordnmnn favored the original
resolution, but voted to kill the amend-
meat. I
Senator James agnin demanded a j
vote. Senator flallinger demanded an-!,
other reading of the originul (ore reso-1
lution with the amendment. This was
done.
Senator Clark interposed with a point
of order that the amended resolution
could not be considered today.
At this point, Senator Ashurst cried ;
out: I
"I call for a roll call."
This began at 11:10. i
P.y the single record roll call. the
Hfnate swept aside not only the Gore
resolution, but also the amendments
and substitutes, and clinched the whole
question in favor of the administra-j
!
Following similar action, which the!
Iiou-se is expected to take quic kly. the
way will be cleared for the state do-;
partment to resume its negotiations in i
the l.nsitania case.
. -- t-'tj i -. -. -. -l -i. -. .
i
Aba flartin
Flesh an blood actors in "Hearts',,
Asunder" at Melodeou Hall t 'night. ; j,,1(ljfe, o( hoo,i Let no nelfish Ameri
Who remembers th' ole straight laced onili bv ex(.Triing the right of travel-
lays when it wtizn' respectable r go t
Kilmers?
POSITION
senate's action was taken.
40 seconds from the open
foreign committee, who yes
If the senate is to be gagged,
Stone and Borah Clash.
After the Core vote. Stone tried to
call up the Jones resolution, providing
that the pres dent refrain from any act
hat tue pr & state,Bto
r nmi t0 advise the senate of his
mov'pa jones, however, defeated this
,.... i. v withdrawing the resolution.
Moreover, he said that he would not
introduce it again.
Senator James, massive Kentuckian
j t) administration forces, ronrsd
down tiie omKMition and forced the
.:., votP Senators Jones, Yardaman,
Smoot and Clarke vainly tried to ex
ulnin their votes. James ruthlessly ob
iected. while Vice-President Marshall
sustained tue points ot oruer aim ruicn
uniformly for a preventing of debate,
After Borah was not allowed to ex
plain his vote he prewnted Stone from
explaining bv declaring that i'f a senate
waa be "iraitred" the whole bodv,
jlu?luling Stone, must be thus treated,
shaking his hand and glaring at
Borah, Stone retorted, "no Idnhoan nor
nny other senntor can prevent me from
speaking."
Borah cnlmly replied: "I will and
m preventing vou" and Vice-President
Marshall hiiMoined Borah's position
whereupon Stone surrendered and voted
ngninst Core's substitute.
Core later explained that he had of-
feied the r.meudnent in order to make
the- inlininisl riil ion express itself on
that issue, which, he claimed, is the real
one in the present international situa
tion. -
The vote ratified President Wilson's
free hand in the foreign negotiations.
And since the president had been freely
noted as saying if congress took part
in handling the delicate German situa
tion, was might not be an improbabil
ity, the vote was regarded as clearing
away the war clouds, which administra
tion lenders frankly said, had lowered
last night.
Several congressmen, however, took
the view, that, in turning ottt to the
president a full power in negotiations,
the senate committed itself to whatever
course be might take, even if it led to
war.
In ostensibly discussing the Shields
water power bill Senators Reed, Jones
and Clarke started the fight over again.
Clarke declared thai the senate had
stultified itself by declaring the Gore
question under "gag rule." He scored
munition exports, too, and said thn'
except for u h unneutral acts on Am
erica's part, the war would have closed
mouths ago.
Following Clarke, Senator Jones de
clared: j 'v Ani.ri... fmm .
: i,,,, on , nrm(Ml Mp ri,k plunging the
(CgnUoue oa Pao Three.)
SHE TRAVELED FAST
Cast Aside by Business Man
Beautiful Woman Commits
. Suicide
Portland, Ore, March .'). Awaiting
instructions from uu uuut, Mrs. C. K.
Pitts, of Oakland, Oil., the body of
Mrs. Nudine Nichols Velguth lies at the
public morgue today with a bullet from
her own revolver in her heart.
Heartbroken because a prominent
business man had trifled with her affec
tions and then cast her aside, Mrs. Vel
guth killed herself on the seventh floor
of a downtown office building yester
day. Ten years ago when Mrs. Velguth,
then known us -Mrs. Nadinc Grace IS'ich
ob, came to l'ortlanu from San Fran
cisco, she was known as the "California
beauty." (She had Deen married and
divorced in California, it was said. She
fell in with Portland's night life and
led a gay, butterfly existence. Her
striking beauty and manner of dress at
tracted attention everywhere.
Young Bernardo Velguth, a gas com
pany collector, was smitten. Together
they frequented cafes and grills, had
joy rides w hen an nutomobilo was n lux
ury!, and spent consideral f.e ,nuJtiey.
One day, in l!0li, Yergutli was arrested
for being short in his accounts approxi
mately $1(5,000.
Just before ho came to trial, Velguth
fled to Oregon City in an automobile
with "the California beauty" and mar
ried her. Then he pleaded guilty and
served one year in the penitentiary.
Three years ago the A'elguths were
divorced. Since then evidence shows
that Mrs. Velguth has heroically at
tempted to quit the "butterfly" life.
She believed the businessman with
whom she was infutuated would marrv
her.
Yesterday she gave up, went to the
ochce building and killed herself in the
venth floor corridor.
On the flv leaf of a little address
book in tho room of "the California
beauty," was the following inscrip
tion:
"Iniquity for breakfast,
Wickedness for lunch,
Crime for dinner and
Honors of all kiuds to sleep on.'
Replies From Governors Indi
cate People Want Congress
to Keep Hands Off
Washington, March 3. If the replies
of seven democratic and two republican
governors to a United Press query to
day are indicative of public sentiment
the American people do not believe con
gress should take a hand in the interna
tional situation.
Every reply to the following query
sent out by the United Press was in fa
vor of President Wilson:
"We are requesting all governors to
give their interpretation, of public sen
timent in their states as to tho course
congress should take on President Wil
son 's letter to Acting Chairman Pou
of the house rules committee, requesting
a vote on a resolution to warn Ameri
cans for armed ships. We would great
ly Appreciate your statement.
number obviously thought it un
wise to make any comment, but a sam
ple of t iio replies received was tho fol
lowing from Governor Withycombe of
Oregon:
"At this time of international crisis,
believe congress should uphold the
hands of President Wilson, who essen
tially must administer matters pertain-,
ing to foreign relations."
Governor Alexander, ot lualio,
answered:
"The issue should be forced and
congress should show the world tint
America stands united with President
Wilson in sustaining laws built up
through centuries, but tnrentened with
destruction in the, European chaos and
war passion."
r rom Governor htewart, or .Montana,
a mo the following:
"Montanans general! v ire in sym
pathy with President Wilson and sym
pathize with his efforts to prevent in
volving America in war. Trusting to
his wisdom, they are not disposed to
'rock the boat. "
Market Responds to
Action of Senate
(Copyrighted 101(1, by the New York
Kvening Post.)
Xcw York, Mar. 3. Apparently the
eirly strength of tne stock market to
day was in response to the senate action
on the (lore resolution. Later news of
parliamentary maneuvers designed to
rob the vote of its significance, how
ever, checked- tho impulse toward a
stronger market and left the mind of
the financial community uncertain and
peril ips disgusted.
That opening quotations were slight
ly higher than yesterday's close was
attributed to an over-extended short in
terest. After a brief period of activity
and firmness, dullness set in and con
tinued most of the time except for short
lived "pints in a fed special'.io.
GAR SHORTAGE DUE
TOICHITi
Oil P. MILLER
Public Service Commissioner
Says S. P. Favors Cali
fornia Shippers
PROSPERITY DELAYED
BY SCARCITY OF EMPTIES
Willamette Valley Mills Can
not Reopen-Laborers
Feel Handicap
"The present car shortage in Ore
gon cot only works a hardship on tho
shipper, but on the laborer, merchant,
and upon the general prosperity of the
state," said Public Service Commis
sioner Frank J. Miller, in in interview
today, "and the effects of the short
age are felt most severely in the Wil
lamette valley districts outside of
Portland."
Mr. Miller went on to sny that on the
lines of tiie O. W. li. & N. the shortage
has been relieved liv this conipanv se
curing emptv ears from its connecting
carriers in Washington ind the north
ern part of Oregon is fairly taken care
of. But in the lower part of the Wil
lamette valley and in Southern Oregon
the shortage of cars on the Southern
Pacific lines where this company lias
no competition has become not only a
problem but a serious handicap. Since
tne California shippers arc being sup
plied with emptv cars to handle their
business Mr. Miller considers that the
Southern Pacific is treating its patrons
unfairly wncre there is no competing
line.
The present actual ear shortage in
Oregon today is ?.000 Riid Mr. Miller
estimates th.it It 'there was any pos
sibility of cars being secured that this
siiortago would easily bo doubled.
However, the shippers have become ac
customed to the shortage and do not
order cars when thero is no possibility
of securing them.
Tho llooth-Kelly company recently
secured a large lumber order and rath,
er than lose the business the eompanv
transferred the order to a Washington
firm where cars could bo secured. Thus
Oregon lost the order and Oregon la
borers were deprived of the benefit,
Local Mills Not Opened.
Mr. Miller was recently informed by
Manager Hamilton, of the mill at Ulack
Kock, that the mill would be started to
morrow huu would snip out five ear
loads of lumber daily if the cars could
be secured but since it is impossible to
secure the cars the mill remains closed
down. The mill at Timber would be re
opened at once according to Manager
liarker and would ship out seven cars
daily if the cars could be secured but
since this cannot be promised tho mill
is idle. Mr. Miller states that if two
mills would open up and uso 12 cars
'lily that it is safo to say that the
100 idle mills in the valley could be re
opened and would uso a proportionate
u,,lullt" v.iis il iuc empties couiu DC
secured and 100 mills would employ sev
eral hundred laborers as the logging
camps would resume operations also.
r.ven tne large mils now in opera
tion are running short hamle.l nnrl slmrt
hours with x minimum output to keen
tho mill busy rather than running at a
maximum capacity since the lumber
companies cannot afford to pilo the
lumber in tneir ya'rds as this necessi
tates extra handling and increases tho
cost of production.
Klour mills and other mills ire daily
ref using orders and complaints aro daily
coming to the commission because tho
cars cannot be secured and the volume
of complaints comes frm the Willam
ette valley whero there is little rail com
petition and no water competition to
the Southern Pacific lines.
No Special Effort Mada.
The eommmion requested Suporin-
ii-Mnmi i. n. Liinpoeu of the South
ern Pacific to use his utmost efforts in
relieving tho shortage and in reply were
assured by Mr. Campbell timt "In the
general courso of business we have
closed and open equipment moving in
to Oregon, which territory we sunnlv
in the same manner and upon the same
general oasis as the rest of our terri
tory." This is taken bv Mr. Miller to moon
thit no special effort is being made to
suppiy wis territory with empty ears
while special efforts are being made in
other sections. The records also show
that all the cars that oome to Oregon
arc laden and when emptied are used
lor reshipping Oregon products but no
strings of empties are coming to this
state. The great amount of eastbound
freight his drained this territory of
empty cars and the small amount of
west bound shipments limits the Ore
gon shippers to this basis.
In reply to Mr. Campbell's letter Mr.
.Miller says in part as follows:
"When you were in Oregon the ship
pers had someone with authority to act
to whom they could appeal, and one
who ws acquainted with the det ills of
the situation. ow it is entirely dif
ferent. There is no executive officer
with power .to act nearer than San
Francisco, and bpenuse of this distance
explanations are necessarily meager, dc
(Continued on Page Two
Premier Skips and Many High
Officials Placed Under
Arrest
Ecgina, Sask., March 3. With spec
tacular suddenness the Scott govern
ment has yielded to the united demand
of the opposition, and tho revolting
liberals for a judicial inquiry into
bribery charges that have rocked the
province "from end to end the past
week.
The bolt was shot at the opening of
last night's session of parliament before
the excited galleries had settled down
awaiting tho usual sensations. It fol
lowed a da' replete with surprises for
hoth sides. The news of the arrest of
It. S. Devlinc, one of the fugitive mem
bers, in the stntes, tho binding over in
police court of two members and an
ex-member under $5,000 bonds for ac
cepting bribes, the report that roads
grnft had already diserosed that s)l'0,
000 is missing and preparations of a
lifiernl committee of lO to circulate
over the province a petition asking the
lieutenant governor to demnnd a royal
commission, were preludes to the real
sensation of the day.
This morning it is said the govern
ment will ask for dissolution of parlia
ment when tho work of the session is
concluded Saturday, or early next week,
permitting tho two royal commissions to
finish their work and report to the
lieutenant, governor.
No word has been received as to the
whereabouts of the missing premier.
It is also positively 'stated bv the
opposition that dissolution will be op
posed pending these judicial investiga
tions on the theory that they will re
veal such conditions ns to warrant dis
missal, of the government and wholesa1'
prosecutions. The cabinet had been in
session nil morning and had practical
ly decided to stand by their refusnl for
a commission.
The government announced this nft
emoon that all banks which cashed il
legal checks in the rond work grnft,
amounting to ;1S0,000 will bo forced to
reimburse the government.
The federal government lias been re
quested to bring all necessary pressure
on The Bank of Ottawa to require that
institution to assist in rapturing one
of its branch managers, who is a fugi
tive from justice, and whose books, it
is alleged are in good shape as far as
the bank accounts are concerned.
Tho government has offered a re
ward of $1,000 for his arrest. It is be
lieved the hank will be responsible for
all provincial funds paid out illegally
by the missing manager.
One Hanged at Folsom, Other
at San Quentin Witt
Asserts Innocence
Pol com, Cal., Mnr. H filenn Witt was
hanged here at 10 o'clock for the mur
der of William Alexander at Los An
geles. II o was dead in 11 minutes And nine
seconds after thn trap was sprung.
uentiemen, I nm Innocent; I am be
ing railroaded from life," he said as he
stood on the death trap. Just as the
Inst word was said tiie tr ip was sprung.
Witt slept well last night, lie em
braced the Catholic faith and repeated
the prayers with Father Cahir. He
showed no fear as ho walked to the
scat fold. Ho was p ile but walked
briskly and unsupported.
liis mother visited him late yester
lay afternoon. The scene was very af
fecting but neither broke down. The
warden refused to allow anyone to re
peat what was said, holding thnt the
list meeting between mother and son
was sacred to them.
A littlo while later a sister who has
been living here, visited Witt and bid
mm rarcwoii.
A second sister who arrived from Kl
Paso, Texns, wos so unstrung when
she reached Folsom that she refused to
go to the prison. The mother and her
daughters left for Texas this morning
before the execution took place.
Oxnam Pays Penalty.
Kan Quentin, Cal., Mar. 3. After
passing the night in receiving spiritual
consolation from the Itev. Perrin of
Son Prancisco, Charles K. T. Oxnam,
aged 19, went to the gallows of San
Cjuentin penitentiary shortly after 10
a. nt. oiiy. lie gave ins life for the
murder of William Alexander, of Las
Angeles, soon after his companion in
the crime, (ilenii Witt, had swung from
the Folsom penitentiary scaffold.
After praying with Hev. Arch Perrin,
of San Francisco, and Hev. A. C. Shep
pard, tho prison chaplain, Oxnim fell
into a peaceful sle Aiefore dawn.
Awakened by his jailor lu tho dark line
of death cells, the lud ate a nearty
breakfast, ind asked for pen nud ink
that he might write a letteer to his step
mother and tho prison officials.
The first letter, icrwled in large writ
ten words declared he was at "peace
with my tlod and ready to die." The
(Continued on Page Five.)
BATTLE STOI BURSTS
AGAIN AROUND VERDUN
Great Artillery Duel Begins This Morning Accompanied By
Fierce Infantry Charges-British Get Busy and Capture
809 Yards of Trenches-field Marshal Von Mackenssn
Reported to Have Taken Command-Germans Claim to
Have Captured Douaumont
London, March 3. Death reigns again at Verdun.
A veritable storm of artillery fire before the great
French fort and fierce infantry attacks before Fort
Douaumont mark the resumption of attacks after a 48
hours of quietude. During the lull, f oeman and defender
gathered their wounded and ministered to them, picked
up their dead and gave them decent burial.
An unconfirmed Stockholm report today said Field
Marshal Von Mackensen, heretofore commanding the
Germans in Serbia and Poland, has taken direct control
of the western offensive and has joined the kaiser and
crown prince.
Cote Du Poivre the Pepper Heights is under heavy
fire as are positions westward across the Meuse.
On the northern end of the western front, the British,
by a sudden thrust, re-captured 800 yards of trenches,
causing critics to believe perhaps the English forces are
endeavoring to draw some of the German fire by keeping
the Teutons busy far from Verdun.
Berlin admitted that operations and movement of can
non had been hampered by the soggy condition of the
Woevre plain and that the Germans had been unable to
-iake progress in their drive from the east and southeast
of Verdun.
"But we are going forward again," declared a delayed
Berlin report. -
- How deadly has been the battle was gleaned m part
today from a report of German correspondents who saw
the struggle around Hill 344.
"As our troops advanced," said one, "the heavy fire
of distant French flanking batteries laid a checkerboard
pattern of bursting shells upon the ground. We stormed
through to the top of the hill, defying death. The worst
was yet to come. The French now directed against the
hill a concentric fire, and cut off the Germans for two
days, leaving them without food supplies. Those heroes,
however, beat off violent counter attacks and held the
hill until a whole strip of the front was ours." z
By Charles P. Stewart.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
London, March 3. Tho villago of
Douaumont, four miles northeast of
Verdun, around which a heavy battle
iias raged for days is now in German
hands.
The llerlin official statement today
claimed capture of the village alone
with 1,000 prisoners, while Paris of
ficially admitted that the enemy and
reached the town. Berlin said its men.
were now driving west and southwest
from the village.
The Paris admission said the Teutons
bad pierced tho Douaumont lines after
suffering "cruel losses, but declared
the struggle for possession of the vil
lage continues.
Itepulsc of ntlacks east of the villago
of Vaux wus claimed by the French.
Tho Germans now are bombarding
the region southeast of Verdun, while
tho French fire across the Wonvro
plain has prevented the Teutons from
advancing.
Verdun itself lins been under fire
from German airmen. Mulencourt and
Hnucourt, nine miles northwest of Ver
dun, were bombarded over night with a
sudden violent strength.
Berlin admitted that the British had
made gains around Yprcs on tho north
ern end of the western battle line, but
diil not indicate to what extent.
CIo"io fighting has developed south
of the La Hnssee canal, while a French
attack in the Bolante wood, In tho Ar
gonne region, wos repulsed.
Germans Take Douaumont.
Berlin, Mir. .1. German forces after
nearly two weeks struggle have captur
ed the village of Doiiniimont, north of
the mighty Verdun fort, nt tho same
time taking 1,000 prisoners, said to
day s official statement.
They now are advancing westward
and southwestward from the villign.
German aviators Imvo bombarded
Verdun.
Zeppelin, Brought Down.
London, Mar. 3. A Zeppelin, evident
ly hit by artillery fire, fell at Kzhejice
on February 21, damaging a house and
injuring IS children, according to Am
sterdam report today. Another fell it
Maisnault.
Trench Admit It.
Taris, March ,1. That tho Germans
reached the village of Douaumont in a
fierce struggle was officially admitted
today.
Patrol Boat Sunk.
London, March 3. Though refusing
full confirmation, the admiralty today
indicated thnt a British patrol boat hnrl
sunk the German submarine U-27, tho
vessel that sank the liner Arabic.
By William Philip Simrna.
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
Paris, Mar. 3. Renewal of the Ger
man Attack against the Verdun forts
convinced military experts here today
that tho kaiser's offensive is tho "real
thing."
Its cost is ghastly.
German dead lie strewn in the woods
and on the hills, so that, from a dis
tance, tho fields seem covered with a,
strange gray-green growth.
Not alone because of such sacrifice
as this vision gives, but also because
of the Gorman prepurutions and shell
ing, critics believe the drive againsa
Verdun is not a feint. They are sot
unmindful, though, of tho possibility ot
a audden thrust, in tho Champagne o
nearer to Paris .ilong the Aisno.
Witnesses of the struggle agree that
the Verdun battle constitutes the heaT
iest fig'nting of tho entire war. Th
Germans are shooting many times more
shells than the French did in the Sep
tember offensive in the Champagne anil
the flower of the Gcrmun troops is par
ticipating. Despite his losses, the kaiser must
strike with his m ixiinilm strength, it ts
believed, or his prestige and morale
will suffer. If ho succeeds in cap
turing Verdun, the war will only bo pro
longed; if it fails, he must realize that
he i definitely beaten.
Par'm calmly and confidently awuita
tho outcome, believing that. in the fiaut
turn of the battle wheel, success will
rest with the tri color.
After all those graft allegations; it
is mifo to assume that Mayor Thomp
son of Chicago will not bo the republi
can "dark horse" wo are hcariag so
much liout - - - 1
THE WEATHER :
.
Oregon: To
night and Satur
day rain west,
rain or snow east
portion; cooler
interior south
west portion to
night; a oath
westerly wind
reaching gait
force near tu
const.
I
MM m
t
