The intelligent, common sense
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must spntend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—Gom
pers.
IS MIS' RENTED
(Ss-,
Not to Pledge Themselves.
LETTER CONTAINS MILD
AND INSIDUOUS THREAT
Candidate Denounces Insurance
Federation As Reactionary and
Opposed to Progress.
Enemies of the state insurance ad­
vocates are busy misrepresenting the
proposed measure and the purposes
of those working for this progressive
piece of legislation. The activities of
an organization known as the Insur­
ance Federation of Minnesota is tin
covered in a letter to The Labor
"World written by Hymen Mendow,
•non-partisan candidate for the legis­
lature in the Thirty-second district,
^Iinneapolis. George W. Lawson,
secretary of the Minnesota Federation
of Labor, hasj^een informed of the
.letters sei.t oulr by the insurance fed­
eration and denies the claims made
"by that organization. Mr. Mendow's
letter follows:
To the Editor: The Insurance Fed­
eration of Minnesota has sent out a
circular letter to candidates for the
legislature requesting them not to
commit themselves on the question of
etate insurance. Such enterprise on
the part of these people is proper and
legitimate if they would only stick to
jfacts and not seek to befuddle the
candidates and the issues.
Insidious Threat.
"The mild and insidiuos threat con­
tained in the letter is enough to make
any right-thinking man revolt against
it. They say, 'On the subject of so
called 'state insurance,' in any form,
the Insurance Federation of Minne­
sota speaks for more than 25,000 citi­
zens of the state who are identified
•with the insurance business in one or
another of its manifold branches."
Such threats to a candidate, for it is a
threat, is not only cowardly but worse
than the paternalism that they so
weakly decry. "Why does not the Fed­
eration present facts not suppositions
and why does it not face the issue on
the merits rather than clamor in a
.pittous wail for protection? The fed­
eration has never sounded the opin­
ion of the insurance men or of the
tpolicy holders or members of fraternal
organizations for whom it purports to
epea. And were it to do so, it could
not get an intelligent expression of
opinion because the general public has
tout the slightest idea of the import of
state insurance and its advantages and
disadvantages. I would wages that
the people who appear on the impos­
ing letter head of the Federation
l\now no more than their fears, about
this progressive proposition. The let­
ter tells us that the organization is
educational and it is our hope that it
if?, but the inevitable result is that if
It continues to use the logic and the
perverted arguments that it is now
using, the working people will wake
lip and learn the truth by self investi­
gation and then woe betide the Fed­
eration and its aims.
Serves to Amuse.
"An analysis of the printed circular
serves to amuse the most unthinking.
•The logic and the, facts presented are
the creations of the brain of an infan­
tile paradox or of one or more who
deliberately seek to becloud the truth
•with sentimentalities that have more
than half century ago lost their appeal
?to the voter. No longer can a petti­
fogging demagogue, be it an individ­
ual or federation, shout paternalism
©r socialism and thus divert the prog­
ress of the arts and age. If state in­
surance is the 'cornerstone of social­
ism' why has Belgium, imperial Ger­
many, monarchic England, democratic
France, Italy, and even ignorant abso­
lute Russia adopt state insurance in its
^various phases?
'Why has the great state of Minne­
sota enacted into »law the Lundeen
till for state fire insurance on its
own buildings and is hereby saving
the people of the state over a third of
a million dollars instead of paying it
out of taxes to over capitalized, wa­
tered, and extortion dividend paying
insurance companies? Is the Federa-
Continued on Page 2.
While British newspapers have
Soundly condemned "slackers" in in­
dustry, a committee appointed by the
(English government shows that it is
ilioth human and logical for men work­
ing long hours and under a 'speeding
•up" system to shirk and slack. The
committee Was appointed to consider
the health of war munitions workers,
and it reports that efficiency is im­
possible where working conditions
destroy the vigor and enthusiasm of
employes.
'Under wrong conditions of work,
with excessive overtime, it is to be ex
^pected, indeed," says the committee,
"jthat some deliberate slacking of the
iworkers might actually give an im
jprovement of output over a period of
(Some length by sparing wasteful fa­
tigue, just as the 'nursing' of a boat
srew over part of a long course may
improve their performance."
The Manchester Cotton Factory
_fTimes makes this comment on the
committee's findings:
Capacity of Body Limited.
"It all amounts to this, that the ca­
pacity of the body for labor is limited,
and it is useless to make drafts upon
energy: that is not there. A studs: of
E TEACHERS ASK 11
rOf
Federation of Insurance Organization Will Oppose
us irsi.tin Educational Sva.
Urges Legislative Candidates
xjratic Educational Sys
i^m By Reactionaries.
URGE CO OPERATION IN
MAKING SCHOOL CHANGES
Instructors Must Work In Atmos­
phere Of Freedom To Serve
Community Best.
CHICAGO, June 8.—The American
Federation of Teachers, recently
chartered bjr the American Federa­
tion of Labor, has issued an appeal
to all national and international un­
ions to assist the teachers in their
organizing campaign. The teachers
say:
"Thorough going changes in our
schools will and should come, but
they should be worked' out along
democratic lines to meet the needs of
the entire community. And labor can
well afford to watch closely the di­
rection and progress of the recon­
struction. For the powerful reaction­
ary interests opposed to real democ­
racy are seizing with all their vigor
this tempting opportunity to fasten
more securely upon tae children of
this country an autocratic educational
system, designed through an army of
subservient teachers, to turn out a
servile generation inviting exploita­
tion.
To Make Them Aggressive.
"We will appreciate your co-opera­
tion in our movement to develop an
aggressive citizenship in the ranks
of the teachers, to democratize the
schools, and thus guard against this
insidious danger threatening the fiber
of our children and the future of
every organized effort for democ­
racy."
The American Federation of Teach­
ers has also issued a "Message to
Teachers," in which it is stated: "The
teachers are the last line of defense
of popular government.
"A great fight is now going on for
the control of public opinion. The
majority of you read daily only what
the plutocracy wants you to read.
They have bought up the muckraking
magazines and long ago they gained
control of the public press. The plu­
tocracy is now attempting to gather
in. the «ontrol- of this nation by"con
trolling the public school system."
The following is the preamble of
the American Federation of Tieach
ers:
Where Schools Have Failed.
"We believe that the schools have
failed of their fullest attainment be­
cause of undemocratic administration
adherence to tradition and lack of re­
sponsiveness to the needs of the com­
munity and that the teachers must
find the remedy, if it is to be found.
"We believe that servility breeds
servility, and that if the schools are
to produce free, unafraid men and
women, American 'citizens of the
highest type, the teachers must live
and work in an atmosphere of free­
dom and self-respect.
"We believe that the teacher is one
of the most highly productive of
workers, and that the best interests
of the schools and of the people de­
mand an intimate contact and an ef­
fective co-operation between the
teachers and the other workers of
the community—upon which the fu­
ture of democracy must depend."
BIG FIRM DOES AWAY
WITH TAYLOR SYSTEM
BOSTON, June 8.—The Reece
Buttonhole Machine company has
reached an agreement with its 400
striking employes. A so-called "ef­
ficiency" system is abandoned, the
eight-hour day granted* and wages
are increased. Time and one-half
will be paid for overtime and double
time for Sundays and holidays.
Arbitration provisions are also agreed
to in the contract.
These workers are mostly machin­
ists. They were unorganized when
they struck, but returned to work as
members of Machinists' union No.
264.
this memorandum might drive it into
the craniums of those who toil not,
neither do they spin, that it is not
sheer caprice or cussedness that has
inspired those who toil with either
hand or brain, or both, to press in the
past for shorter hours of labor and ex­
tended holiday periods. It has been
an actual physical necessity, due to
the gradually increasing strain im­
posed by modern machinery and
methods.
"In various ways the committee em­
phasize that a failure to conserve the
maximum efficiency of the workers
must be wasteful and disadvantageous.
The sooner this fact is recognized and
acted upon all round the better it will
be for the race in general.'
"Labor Unions Real Friends of Im­
migrants."—Scharrenberg.
Promotes Americanism.
That the labor union is the most po­
tent factor in the Americanization of
immigrants was the position taken by
Paul Scharrenberg, member of the
State Housing and Immigration Com­
mission and secretary-treasurer of the
California State Federation* of Labor,
in an address the other day before the
convention
Of
Vol.23. No.44. iff DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, JUNE 10,1916.
California Social Agfen-
^liAnut
A
The tremendous interest being taken by the voters
in the proposed ordinance to wipe out the saloons has
practically sidetracked every other imprant measure to
be voted on at the special election to be held Monday,
June 19.
There are the proposed amendments to the city
charter, one of which provides for the method of hold­
ing elections for selecting city commissioners. It will
require a three-fifths vote of all the electors voting at
the election to pass this proposed amendment. If the
voters do not pass the amendment the city will be with­
out an election system. The matter is too important to
be neglected by the voters.
Then, there is the proposed ordinance to adopt the
two-platoon system for city firemen. It is of this ordin­
ance that we wish to make special appeal to the voters.
There is no question but that Duluth has the best
fire department of any city in the United States. Fire
losses are less here than they are in any other city of
our size in the country. We have the best fire fighting
equipment that money can buy, and it is very rare in­
deed for a ,fiye to make any headway in the central
portion of the city at least. Duluth has a clean, cap­
able and active bunch of firemen. They are employed
24 hours every day with 12 hours off twice a week
to spend with their families.
Civil service obtains in the fire department, and
every young man who enters the service does so with
the purpose of making fire fighting his life's vocation.
We know any number ot Duluth firemen who have been
in the service from 15 to 25 years, most of which time
these men have been denied the privilege of enjoying
any sort of home life.
Husbands and wives are denied the companionship
so necessary to mutual happiness. Children ,have been
deprived of the home influence of fathers, and the lives
of these men have been sacrificed for the public weal.
When the city was smaller and poorer it was not
to be expected that the two platoon system could then
be adopted. We have grown considerably in population
and wealth since the organization of our paid fire de­
partment. We have acquired valuable property, erected
fine fire buildings and procured expensive apparatus.
We have gone a long way—further than most cities—
to afford protection to property from fire, and the great­
est beneficiaries of our splendid fire department have
been the insurance companies, which are receiving large
returns through the money the people are expending to
maintain the department. Insurance companies da not
reduce the insurance rates when the people reduce fire
hazards by the maintenance of an efficient fire depart­
ment.
done everything within Its. power to"
comply with the wishes of the insurance underwriters
to minimize the fire risks in this community. But the
'Frisco Paper Says Present-Day
Strike Shows Independence
of Organized Labor.
SAN FRANCISCO, June 8.—The
Bulletin of this city is a consistent
advocate of immigration restriction
and believes that present-day strikes
indicate growing independence on the
part of workers and their refusal to
accept "industrial exploitation" which
can be only maintained by increasing
immigration. The Bulletin makes
this observation:
"Unless we are swamped with im­
migration the industrial exploitation
and absolutism of the pre-war period
can never be quite restored. When
the present wounds are scars and the
present anger has burned itself out,
the employing classes—or such mem­
bers of them as do not seek more
power than ought to be allowed them
in a democracy—will be the better
for living in a country where stand­
ards of living and of liberty have been
in some degree raised."
cies in Los Angeles.
Scharrenberg said that "it is the de­
sire for a better chance in life, for a
larger and more human share in the
bounty of nature" that impels the toil­
ers to migrate from Europe to Amer­
ica.
"To the extent that the promise of
this opportunity is realized in the lives
of the people they become American­
ized," said Scharrenberg. To the ex­
tent that the labor movement aids in
the" realization of this promise it be­
comes a factor in Americanization.
New Conditions Bad.
"The man who comes to our shores
seeking an opportunity to improve his
lot, if left to his own resources, may
find himself in a position no better
than that he left behind. In fact, he
may, and often does, find himself in a
worse positions than formerly, amid
strange surroundings and, as it were,
mocked by the memory tf those tales
of wealth by which he was lured from
home.
In such circumstances the hopes
of the newcomer fade and become as
'promises kept to the ear but broken
to the heart.' Unfortunately ft major­
ity djt: those who land! annually on our
FOE SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REIOEM AND POLITICAL PBOGRESS.
HOW YOU CAN BRING HAPPINESS AND
JOY INTO HOMES OF DULUTH FIREMEN
h°X*
Wages of Locomotive Engineers
Less Than Laborers In Build­
ing Trades.
Duluth is taking much interest in
the fight of the trainmen to secure an
eight-hour day. In addition to hav­
ing one of the most hazardous of all
occupations, the trainman has per­
haps the longest hours and his time
is not his own except for a few hours
during the day. His family suffers
because of his absence from home,
and nothing can be planned by the
family ahead because it is not certain
when the husband and father will be
home. The wives of the trainmen are
back of the movement.
Despite the hazard of employment,
the long days, the exposure in bad
weather, and the irregular hours, the
wages of locomotive engineers are
lower than that of b.uilding laborers
in Chicago, which compare favorably
with wages in other cities.
Want Shorter Hours.
Toledo, Ohio, June 8.—Waitresses'
union has prepared a new wage scale
which includes the nine-hour day, a
weekly increase of $1 and a minimum
rate of $8 a week.
LONG HOURS AND SPEEDING SYSTEM BLAMED FOR SHIRKERS AND SLACKERS
shores find themselves an just such a
position. Herded into the mills and
mines, living in slums, shacks and
bunkhouses, his last condition is worse
than his first. He leaves a land of
poverty and comes to a land of wealthf
But he finds himself unable to share
in that wealth. He comes to a land of
liberty, only to find himself denied ac­
cess to nature's gifts. He comes in­
spired by hope, and that hope turns to
'Dead Sea apples' on his lips.
Revolts Against Society.
"Because he is disappointed in his
hopes and ambitions the immigrant
turns from the spirit of Americanism
and surrenders to the spirit born of
the actual conditions of his life, a
spirit of revolt against society.
"The conditions created by the con­
gestion of immigrants in the indus­
trial centers Constitutes a serious men­
ace to the institutions of the country.
The peace of these institutions is con­
stantly threatened A.nd frequently vio­
lated.
"To meet this danger, numerous"
expedients have'been devised. These
methods have for their object the dis­
semination of patriotic sentiment
If
insurance underwriters are not interested in men they
are Interested in saving dollars for the companies they
represent. It is therefore up to the people to say
whether or not the fire department will be made more
efficient by granting better conditions of employment to
firemen, the only persons capable of making an efficient
department possible.
iEvery consideration of justice and humanity de­
mands that the city fireman be permitted to have twelve-
CaCh
day*
away from the
by
appeal t? natlpnai ^orjr and. tn&i?
service.
to Iheir families. If the two-platoon system is adopted
not mean that a fireman will be free from call in
case of a large conflagration during the time that he is
given to spend with his family. He will be subject to
call at any time when he is off duty.
Under the 24-hour system, which now obtains, the
fire department is organized for every emergency It
has more men than it needs for an ordinary call. Under
the two-platoon system it will be necessary to have
only a sufficient number of men on duty to take care
of ordinary calls, and in the event of a large con­
flagration the entire force could be summoned.
Firemen state that if the two-platoon system is
adopted the city will be obliged to employ one-third
more firemen than are now engaged. So at a time of
a large fire the city will have a fighting force one
third larger and full twice more efficient to meet any
kind of emergency.
The employment of one-third more- firemen will in­
crease the cost of operating the fire department ulti­
mately by about $25,000 a year. As the ordinance will
not be effective until January 1, 1916, the commis­
sioners are given ample time to make provisions to raise
the revenue to meet this additional expense.
When we take the expenditures of the city as a
whole and analyze closely how they are made it will
be found that it will not require very much economy
here and there to take from other funds sufficient to
increase the fire department appropriation by $35,000.
If the people pass ordinance "A," which is the or­
dinance to provide for the two-platoon system the com­
missioners will find a way to raise the revenue to pay
the wages of the additional fireman to be employed. Of
this there is no question.
TJie Labor World circulates largely among the work­
ing classes among the men who. believe in the eight
hourt workday. Surely these men will appreciate the
modest claims of the city firemen and will vote to
adorit this ordinance. Every workingman voter in Du­
luth jand every other voter who believes that the city
should be a model employer *BfK»l*J to and urged
to vote in favor of ordinance "A." By doing so it
will^ring more sunshine and happiness and joy into
th**sarts andHomes of Duluth fffemen arid their fami­
lies. Let every Duluth voter do his duty by the firemen
at the special election to be held Monday, June 19.
to be devoted
E1E
American Consul At Vancouver
Reports to U. S. Bureau of
Labor.
WASHINGTON, June 8.—The fed­
eral department of labor has pub­
lished a statement by the American
consul general at Vancouver, British
Columbia, who warns Americans that
there is no warrant for the call, em­
anating from Canadian sources, for
30,000 farm laborers in that country.
It is stated that there are more than
1,000 unemployed in Vancouver and
that "many able bodied men in this
province are dependent upon public
charity for the reason that they are
unable to obtain employment."
The consul continues:
"There is no demand for mechan­
ics or laborers in this part of Cafeada,
and I have to recommend that this
fact be made known through the press
in the United State^ as a means of
warning American Citizens against
coming to British Columbia with the
expectation of securing employment
of that kind."
tion, by teaching politics and civics,
and by various exercises calculated to
inspire reverence for 'the flag' and to
strengthen devotion to the things of
which that emblem is the symbol.
"The patroitic address, the flag
raising exercises, the 'welfare work,'
however well meant and however suc­
cessful their appeal to the emotions,
have untouched the real need of the
case, namely, the need to realize in
practical ways the promised opportun­
ity of liberty and full development
upon the highest plane of social jus­
tice and equality.
"The test to which the question of
Americanization must finally be sub­
jected consists in the comparison be
tweeii the conditions of labor in the
United States and.the countries from
which the immigrants come. To the
ektent that the comparison favors the
United States we recognize the process
of Americanization.
"The labor union is a vital factor
in Americanization by virtue of its in­
fluence in tfie regulation and control
of the conditions of labor. The influ­
ence of the labor movement is di­
rected toward protecting /the worker
in his riffht to that opportunity which
Massachusetts Votes Funds and
Credits of Commonwealth
Shall Help Buy Homes.
LABOR UNIONS SECURE
PASSAGE OF AMENDMENT
Homestead Commission Will Give
Invaluable Assistance to
Working Classes.
The commonwealth of Massachu­
setts is going into the home-buildijVg
business. By an overwhelming ma­
jority, perhaps'the largest ever given
to a successful referendum in that
state, the citizens have voted that the
funds and credit of the commonwealth
shall be advanced to those wanting
homes Of their own. With compul­
sory city planning on the one hand
and state housing on the other, Massa­
chusetts is now in a fair way to find
out Whether measures that have
shown their constructive usefulness
abroad will work in the individualistic
atmoshpere of this country.
The homestead amendment to the
Massachusetts constitution makes pos­
sible various forms of public assist­
ance to wefrking people seeking to ac­
quire wholesome suburban homes for
their families. Three years ag such
work was declared unconstitutional
in Massachusetts. By overwhelming
majorities the legislature approved the
amendment, which read as follows:
"The general court shall have power
to authorize cities and towns to take
lana and to hold, improve, subdivide,
build upon and sell the same, for the
purpose of relieving congestion of
population and providing hopnes for
citizens provided, hwever, that this
amendment shall not be deemed to
authorize the sale of such land or
buildings at less than the cost there­
of."
laabor Bodies Help.
Labor organizations were largely
instrumental in the approval of the
amendment.
The merits claimed for-the measure
are many. It has become-practically
impossible for the workingmen earn­
ing from $12 to $20 a week to own or
rent a suitable home for himself and
a growing family in the large cities
and towns. Homestead legislation
promises to provide a home, at a cost
and on terms which he can meet, with
sufficient light and. «Jr,. ,sanitation,,
good conditions Jfor.children and a
garden for both piay'&d&' prof ft." TPhe
state will provide these oh the theory
that they are essential to the health
and growth of its citizenship.
Coupled with the establishment of
good environment for as many citi­
zens as possible, homestead legislation
also proposes to promote agriculture
and seeks to provide an-opprtunity to
get back to the 4Mjil..r'
The plans of the homestead com­
mission, which will administer the
measure, are announced not to include
radical or Wholesale procedure. Al­
though state aid to housing has
proved very successful abroad, the
commission idealizes that it must move
slowly and carefully in inaugurating
the first undertaking of this kind in
the United States. The commission,
as such, took no stand for the amend­
ment because it felt that the powers
of a state-created body do not include
the offering of recommendations look­
ing toward the alteration of the fun­
damental law.
Promote Agriculture.
The commission is expected to" give
agricultural instruction to the families
Continued on Page 2.
T. R.'S SON TO EARN $6
A WEEK AS WOOL SORTER
BOSTON, June 8.—Archie Roose­
velt, son of Col. Roosevelt, will be­
come a wool sorter at $6 a week this
summer, following his graduation at
Harvard.
Archie has chosen a job similar to
the one held down by his elder
brother, Theodore jr. ,in which he
will learn all branches of the carpet
making trade.
After his graduation he will take a
short rest at Oyster Bay and then go
to Clinton, Mass., to take up his work
in the factory of the Bigelow Hart­
ford Carpet company.
is the distinguishing characteristic of
Americanism.
Movement For Workers.
"The labor movement is a move­
ment of, by and for the workers. Its
interests and objects are limited sole­
ly to the promotion of justice in the
relations between the worker and so­
ciety at large.
"The labor movement, by uniting
the workers in a bond of common in­
terest, endows each individual with
strength equal to that of the numbers
combined, thus enabling him to make
his bargain for emloympent upon the
basis of mutual interest instead of
upon the basis of individual necessi­
ties.
"The power thus brought to bear
upon conditlpns of labor extends to
every detail of the day's work.'Wages,
hours of labor, shop conditions are
determined by mutual agreement.
"The labor movement exerts a pow­
erful influence in the formulation of
public poUcy, as expressed in the laws
Of the country. It stands as a bul­
wark against the encroachment of
private interests upon public rights.
It to t|M»
working class movement to'
"'Be most effective most he conducted
fbj the workers themselves in the in­
terest of the workers. It will not
be dominated by the so-called in­
tellectuals or bntters-in.~-Gompers.
TWO CENTS.
E
Unfair Methods To Delay Eight
Hour Day Matter Charged By
Transportation Unions.
COMMITTEE NAMED ON
"RAILROAD SITUATION."
Referendum By Roads May Defer
Action For Two Or Three
Years.
CLEVELAND, Ohio, June 8.—That
the United States Chamber of Com­
merce is being used by the railroads
as a means of delaying action on the
demand for an eight-hour day made
by the freight train employes, is
charged in a statement issued by the
transportation brotherhoods.
Immediately after an address by
Howard Elliott, president of the
financially wrecked New Haven sys­
tem, made before the United States
Chamber of Commerce at Washing­
ton iu February, a "committee on the
railroad situation" was appointed by
the body.
This committee after deliberating
for three months, now proposes that
the local chambers of commerce
throughout the United States shqtll.
by vote on the resolutions prepared
by the committee, express their opin­
ion as to the introduction in congress
of a joint resolution directing the in­
terstate commerce commission to in­
vestigate and report "as soon as prac­
ticable," the minimum and maximum
average wage paid, with hours of
service, etc., to each class of railroad
employes in the United States and the
relation of railroad wages to railroad
revenue and various other compli­
cated and technical subjects.
The significant part of this trans­
parent scheme for delay is, that both
the railroads and the employes are
urged to postpone any action on the
hours and wage question until the
commission has made its report.
Anyone who- is familiar with the
amount. of unfinished work now be­
fore the commission and who knows
the necessarily slow procedure, must
admit that two ©r three years is the
lowest estimate, of the time required
for such aminyefetigatton.
The whole proposition ot the so
called referendum of the United
States Chamber of Commerce would
appear to be, to "jRPstpoagJgnjMj^Uoiy
tfcatwouldtendto improve .t&e^ljGqptff
working hours of railroad freight
train employes..
Why thcYe!eireuld-^^r-itiiyoccasion
for taking a- referendum 'vote on the
question is a mystery, as it is a fore­
gone conclusion that the local" cham­
bers of commerce will decide unani
mou^..Jark^p^ of the delay and at
the end 6i. the time, they will of
course ^fruit as joyfully vote for some
other delay for a succeeding period
of years.
It is significant to note that the
'committee off "the railroad situation**
arrived at its conclusion that congres­
sional *was needed without
hearing or asking for information
from anyone representing the em­
ployes. They formulated their report
from hearing only one side of the
proposition.
These tactics remind one of the
methods of railroad attorneys in the
courts when an injured workman is
bringing suit—any maneuver to delay
the case and wear out the patience
and capital of the workman, is so
much gained for the railroad.
The disastrous affects of hope de­
ferred are all too well known by the
railway wage earner to cause him to
sympathize with this movement to
postpone the receipt by him of his
just dues.
It is to be hoped that, the United
States Chamber of Commerce in its
investigation by its "committee on
the railroad situation" took cogniz­
ance of the increase in the salaries*
paid general officers as compared to
the increase in wages of other rail­
way employes.
Taking sixty-two western railroads
as a fair example, the salaries paid
general officers in 1900 were $4,537,
404 and in 1913 $9,444,528, which Is
increase of more than 100 per
mental reform in the conditions of
labor, the only movement that makes
for Americanization by making for
establishment in the daily lives of the
people of that condition frUch we re­
gard as the essence of Americanism,
the opportunity' of full development
upon the highest plane ot social Jus­
tice.
"To thousands and thousands of
immigrants in Our country the labor
unions have been schools, colleges and
universities. And while they have net
assimilated a knowledge of Latin and
Greek, they have learned much about
their inalienable right to live asfr^e
men and to share fully in all the ma­
terial things which have been so am­
ply provided but so unevenly distri­
buted.
"What a hollow mockery is all talk
of Americanization unless ithe *Amerl
canizers' see to it that sufficient leis­
ure is provided to enable the immi­
grant to take advantage of the edu­
cational opportunities offered! In
this particular field of endeavor—the
shortening of the workdaiy—:the lab6r
union has been the pioneer and has
maintained the leadership right up" to
