J r i' li-
.'.'"-U .;'.'J
'.4,,. -'V ' .' 'fH'v:
MAY NOT RUN ON 3RD TICKET!
Weather Showen Probable To-NIgM and Sunday. '.f'l
JH EDITION
EDITION
"Circulation nooks Open to All." I
"Circulation Books Open to All."
PRICE ONE CENT.
Copjrlfht, 1 II 1 U, br Tlie Vtm I'ubllthlof
Co. (The Nw York Motld).
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, JUNE 10, 1916.
12
PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
t
MOOSE NAMES T. R.;
v
j
l
I'
MMAL
WWML
mm
M
f
HU
GHES NAMED AND ACCEPTS;
SIGNS FROM SUPREME COURT
T. i
PUT IN NOMINATION
ON FLASH FROM COLISEUM
THAT G. 0. P. WAS BALLOTING
-
Progressives Anxious for Word From
Roosevelt Some of Them Believe
He Will Not Consent to Run on
a Third Ticket.
CHICAGO, June 10. Word from Roosevelt is anxiously
awaited by Perkins and his associates. If Hughes declines, the
Colonel will accept. If Hughes accepts there is serious doubt
whether the Colonel will consent to lead this second revolt.
By Samuel M. Williams
(Special Staff Correspondent of The Evening World.)
PROGRESSIVE CONVENTION HALL, CHICAGO. June 10.
The Progressive Convention (his afternoon voted unanimously to nomi
nate Theodore Roosevelt again as its candidate for President.
Soli Urn In Republican ranks continues and the campaign of (our years
tigo is to bo repeated.
Col. Roosevelt's proposition that Senator Henry Cabot Lodge of
Massachusetts bo substituted for himself as a harmony candidate- was re
i elved as coldly In the Progressive Convention as In the Republican Con
vention. Painbrldge Colby of Ncv York, in a spectacular speech, dramatic In
delivery and ringing in rhetoric, placed thii Colonel's name In nomination
simultaneously with the beginning of the third ballot In the Republican
i onvention.
Hiram Johnson, In a passionate, llery speech, seconded the nomination.
When news came that Hughes had been nominated In the Republican
Convention the Progressives went wild with frenzy. Gov. Johnson was
tpcaklng ns the private messago from the Colonel came over the wire.
"I don't know whether Roosevelt will accept or not," he cried. "There
Is but one thing to do in ihls time of crisis nominate him without loss of
another minute of time."
The convention was (iiilverlng, swaying with frenzied excitement.
Tut ji. up to hltn," shrieked Johnson. "Send him word what you have
i.one, and call on him to determine his ncceptanco of your nomination."
Chairman Robins swept aside all restraints. Raising his hand high In
air ho shouted; "A motion Is in order to suspend the rules to nominate by
Declamation. Theodoro Roosevelt, as candidate of tho National Progres
sive party for President of tho United States.
Tho motion was put and at ll'.lia, Chicago time, a mighty shout of
Approval filled the convention hall. Roosevelt again was a third party
rjllillll.ltc.
After Hie Prnmosivr Convention was called to order, Mgr. Fltzsim
mons of Chicago delivered a prayer. ,
Client t Row ell, or California, announced that the State Chairmen were
vailing at the Rlnckstone, at conference with Perkins, and had asked tho
convention to wait until he arrived at the Auditorium.
"I low soon will they be here?" tho delegates shouted impatiently.
"I-'nc or ten minutes," Unwell answered.
ROOSEVELT SUGGESTS LODGE.
When Perkins finallj appeared he said:
"Wu met the Republican conferees and remained in conference last
un'll M o'c'. el.. We were asuln asked to state our second choice for a
candidate fur Preside nt. We maintained our position that wo had pre
sented n eandidati and they had not. We advanced our arguments. The
Rcpubllcai' cunfi.reos returned and asked us what wo thought of Justice
Hughes.
"Wo replied that If each one of them desired to sign a statement on
Hughes, and they r plied 'No. Then we adjourned and met again this
morning. Ai .-oon as we entered the rontereiico to-day they told us they
bad all iie agre-d on Justice Hughes. We ook that Into consideration
and pul it beiore our State Chairmen.
"We deeidid to present their communication to this convention. Tho
question of a second choice on our part has been deoply discussed.
"We laid the wholo matter before Col. Roosevelt last night, and Col.
Jiooseveli .ent a teleitraiii. The telegram said In part:
"I uuilers'tand you nre to have your last conference to-day with
the Republican conferees, but that your comniltteo has not settled
un a -eiond choice, l-'or months I have thought of this matter,
and tiled to llnd a common stun ll.it; ground. Can wo not forget
our past illften uees and llud a common ground by which we can ex-pre.-
'Uir A jiu rleanlJiu?
"h far as toy soul I. known to me, I make my appeal to the
Associate Justice Charles E. Hughes
In His Robes of Office as Justice
mm
"MY DOTY TO ACCEPT CALL
L
!
N NA1NA
CRISIS'
HUGHES TELEGRAPHS HARDING
Copvriwlit by Cllnedlnit. W.iKhlnKtnn, D. O
How Justice Hughes Sent
His Resignation to Wilson
WASHING'! ON. June 10. Supreme Court Justice Unties this
afternoon .-ent his reMgnaiion io 'he President ly meenger. It
follow:
"To the President:
"I hereby resign the office of Associate Justice of the
Supreme Court of the United States.
'I am, Sir, respectfully yours,
"CHARLES EVANS HUGHES."
WllEllE HOUSE VELT
GOT II1S 18 1-2 VOTES
IS G.O. '. COWEM'ION
Votes for Roojevolt were cast as
follows:
1 New .Mexico. 1
:t Oklahoma .. . I
Pi mi a
1 Tennessee , , a
J I'tab 1
Maryland . .
Mass
Mississippi .
.Montana . . .
New Jersey
Total,
hi.
CHICAGO JUSTICE DEAD.
(Continued on Second Page,)
cilic,;0. liiim in Chief Justine
lilrll.llll K. Illlike of the foik ColllltJ
Criminal Cuutt tin (I liU buiiu' lien
to-iliy. llurko ww" one. of u .eii (. ni
victim i aile III it tin. MuielMi-ln ban
fill el. tii'lil li..ri- h vi'i 1 1 hi nit it - 'irii h r
arsmlc was placed In the koup In what
l o.iiivtti u oai ut. - n all Altai Will
plut tu klli all ll.c U,m.rJ.
SON CURIOUS TO KNOW
ISJJHER ACCEPTS
Knew as Little ol Father's Altitude
as Anybody, He Intimates
at Plattsburg.
-I '.'lal to Thi! hirlliiu U r 1 I
THAINlNl! CAMP, Pl.ATTSIlCltCi
N. V., June 10. -Clii'ines J. H tubes
Jr.. who Is in the trenches here, when
Informed of hi father's nomination,
said with u (i.irently genuine curios
ity, "II.imi you heaid whoiber lie n
cepteil or no'.'"
"Don't .ni know vhi.tlni ii
would?" lie w.is nskeil.
"Wb no," he .mswetiil. .v,
why I nskeil,"
(For nacinu Reiulti See Page 2.)
"I Stand for the Firm and Unflinch
ing Maintenance of All the Rights
of American Citizens on Land and
Sea," He Says.
WASHINGTON, June to. Justice Charles K. Hughes this after
noon sent a telegram to Chairman Harding of the Republiean Nation il
Convention formally accepting the Republican nomination for the Presi
dency. He sent the following message to Chairman Harding in Chicago:
"Mr. Chairman and Delegates:
"I have not desired the nomination. I have 'wished to
remain on the bench. Hut in this critical period of our national
history I recognize that it is your right to summon and that it
is my paramount duty to respond. You speak at a time of
natianal exigency transcending merely partkm consideration.
"You voice the demand for a dominant, thorough-going
Americanism, with firm, protective upbuilding policies essential
to our peace and security, and to that call, in this crisis, I cannot
fail to answer with the pledge of all that is in me to the service
ot our country. 'I'lierefore I accept the nomination.
"I stand for the firm and unflinching maintenance uf all the
rights of American citizens on land and sea.
"I neither impugn nor underestimate difficulties. Hut is is
must regretably true that in our foreign relations wc have sul
fered incalculably from the weak and vacillating course which
has been taken with regard to Mexico, a course lamentably
wrong with regard to both our rights and our duties.
"We interfered without consistency; and, while seeking to
dictate when we were not concerned, we utterly failed to appre
ciate and discharge our plain duty to own oun ciliens. At the
outset of the Administration the high responsibilities of our
diplomatic intercourse with foreign nations were Mibordinated to
a conception of partisan requirements, and presented to the
world a humiliating spectacle of inaptitude.
Related reports have not availed to recognize the Infliionco and
prestige so unfortunately sacrlllccd; nnd brave words have been
stripped of tholr force by Indecision. I desire to see our diplomacy
restored to Its best standards, and to have these advanced; to
hnvo no sncrlllces of national Interests to partisan expediency;
to have tho llrst ability to the country always at lis command,
here ami abroad, in diplomatic Intercourse; to maintain firmly our
rights under international law, Insisting steadfastly upon all our
rights ns neutrals, and fully perlonning our Interntlonal obliga
tions; and. by the clear correctness nnd Justlco of our position ami
our niaiilfust ability and disposition to sustain them, to dignify
our place among the nations.
"I stand fir an Amerl'iinlsin which knows no ulterior purpose,
for a patriotism which Is single and complete. Whether native or
naturalized, of whatewr race or creed, wo have but ono country and
wo do not for an liihtam tolerate any division of allegiance.
"We must have tho strength which bcR-respect demands, the
strength of an etlleient nation ready for every emergency.
"Our prparatlon must bo Industrial and economical as well.
Our severest test will come nfter the war Is out. We must make,
a fair and wine readjustment of the tariff, In accordance with
sound protective principle, to insuro our economic Independence
and to maintain American standards of living. Wo must eonserw
the best IteresU of labor, realizing that In democracy patriotism
and strength must be rooted in uou handed Justice, in prevent
ing, us we mtirti, unjust discrimination and monopolistic practices,
we must still be zealous to assure tho foundations of honest busi
ness. Particularly should wo seek the expansion of foreign trade.
Wo must not throttle enterprise, here or abroad, but rather pro
I molo It and take pride In honorable achievements,
"Rut I shall undertako to meet It, grateful for the confidence,
you express. I sincerely trust that all former differences may bo
forgotten, ami that wt may hao united effort In u patriotic realiza
tion of our national need ami opportunity.
"I live resigned my Judicial otllce ami I am ready to dovoto
myself unrescrvell to the campaign,
1 "CHARLKS H HUCJHKS."
E
ARBANKS CHOSEN
FOR 1
PR1NCY
E
ON THE HUGHES TICKET
Hughes Vote Came on the First Bal
lot To-Day Sufficient Strength
Shown When the Call of New
Jersey Was Reached.
Hy Mart in Green.
(Special Staff Correspondent of The Evening World.)
COMSHUM, CHICAGO, June H). Charles Evans Hughes of
New York was to-day nominated for President of the United States by
the Republican National Convention, and Charles Warren Fairbanks of
Indiana was named for N ice President.
Justice Hughes's nomination came on the third bjllot. When New
Jersey's vole was cast Hughes had sufficent votes to nominate.
One ballot was needed to select Fairbanks for Vice President.
After Congressman Weeks ol Massachusetts and Senator Sherman
of Illinois had withdrawn, and Medill McCormick of Chicago, one of the
original Hull Moosers, had declared tor Hughes, the roll call of States was
begun and it was all over. "
The actual vote placing Justice Hughes in nomination -was: Hughes,
y-19! Roosevelt, IS.'.; Weeks ; Lodge, 5.
Senator Lodge seconded the nomination of Hughe?.
Charles W. Fairbanks of Indiana was named for Vice President.
Alabama led off with her 1(5 votes for Hughes. Arkansas went solid
for Hughes. When Colorado was called. Mr. Stephenson of that State
("Hig Steve") moved that the roll call be dispensed with and the nomina
tion of I lughes be made unanimous. I le said he represented all the Roose
velt men in the convention and that Roosevelt was out of it.
It was decided to proceed with the roll call. Arizona, which had cast
one vote for Roosevelt, reconsidered and cast a solid vote of 0 for Hughes.
Delaware witlidiew du Pout and went solid for Hughes. Ohio with
drew Hurton, Indiana withdrew Fairbanks, Iowa withdrew Cummins, New
York withdrew Root. As the roll call proceeded other States withdrew
their favorite sons and voted solidly for Hughes.
Delegates anxious tu hurry things tried to get the rules suspended
and Hughes nominated by a rising vote ot the convention, but the Chiir
refused to entertain the suggestion.
The Chair asked if the nomination should be made unanimous and
recognized A. P. Moore of Pennsylvania, who moved it be so made.
At 1.06 John Wanamaker took the platform to nominate Fairbanks
for N ice President.
Massachusetts was the first State to break the solid Hushcn voto.
Three Roosevelt and one Weeks follower in that State refused tu oto for
Hughes.
Missouri, Nebraska, New Alevlco and other States also furnished dele
gates who wouldn't stand for Hughes, but the Instances were scattering.
Tho nomination of Mr. Hughes followed the receipt of a report from
the harmony conference committee that Col. Roosevelt had urged the
nomination of Senator Uidge by both the Republican and Progressive Con
ventions, and that the Progressive Convention had laid tho Colonel's sug
gestion on the table.
Then the Coliseum convention proceeded to tho third ballot, delegates
here and there showing that the Colonel still has a few followers in tho
li. O. P. '
Tho Convention was lato In getting down to business because of the
necesiity of wnlting for tho report of the harmony conference committee
which met tun Hull Moose harmony committee at 9.30 o'clock.
A proposition to name James A. (iurlleld for Vice President on tho
ticket with Hugh"s was regarded with fuvor, and was considered as tho one .
thing needful to cement an understanding with Col. Roosevelt.
' Jimmy" (iartleld was a protige of the Colonel In the Iiooievelt Cabi
net, and although he l a Republican he Is In s.vuipatny with the Roosevolt
policies. Another factor which made the suggestion that he would be u
good vice inchldcnti.it candidate wis that he would bring unto tho cam
paign at a time wueu It U needed a good old Republican name.
Senator Snicot presented the fv'i
lowlinf report from tnu Republican
Peace Committee:
"To the conferoes of the Republi
can National Convention)
"In accordance with the pre
cedence eet by yourielvei with
retpect to the communication re
ceived from ui, we shall take
pleasure in presenting your com
munication to the National Con
vention of the Progressive party,
which meets at 10.30 o'clock this
morning.
"Respectfully sumitted,
"George W. Perkins, Hiram
Johnson, Horace S, Winkinson,
Charles J. Bonaparte, John M,
Parker."
At 12.02 Mr Smoot begun to read
''ol Roosevelt's If Iter to tho ProgrM.
siv convention, exilulmn that It
had been brought to the Coliseum by
1
