'Buttm
WEATHER
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
June 7, 27.25.
i r i
ARIZONA Generally
fair.
;
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 19, NO. 12.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, JUNE 10, 1916.
'J' "ol&f JE FIVE CENTS.
run mm
BOUND TO ..
NAME T. R. s
TODAY ?!
i
Justice Charles E. Hughes Leads
Republican Field of Eleven In
. ' First Two Ballots for Nomination
Only Miracle Or Colonel's Re
fusal Can Prevent Progres
sives Tossing T. R. Hat In
to Third Party
CONFEREE AGREEMENT
MIGHT PREVENT IT
t
V 3
jtr s ' -, v' v
Slight Hope Held For Agree
ment, However. ' Bull
Moose Admit They Play
Clever Political Game
(By Review Leased Wire
AUDITORIUM. CHICAGO, June 8.
Theodore Roosevelt will be nominat
ed for president by the Progressive
national convention tomorrow unless
there is some political miracle an
agreement between its conferees and
those from the Republican organiza
tion, or direct, emphatic word from
Mr. Roosevelt himself that the Pro-
nccepted.
Four hours today the leaders of the
convention staved off a nomination
that they knew and every delegate in
the hall knew was crowding forward
with the hours themselves and could
no rrore be stopped than an avalanche
if once the convention was assured
that the last hope of peace with the
Republicans was gone and Mr. Roose
velt's nomination' at the Coliseum
could not be . accomplished.
After three sessions that ran
through the gamut of emotions from
hysteria for Mr. Roosevelt to a calm
dispassionate discussion of planks in
the platform the convention adjourn
ed at 9:58 p. in. tonight until 10:30
a. ni. tomorrow.
All day the delegates kept on guard
while the leaders watchced or listened
over the telephones to detect any un
exoected move on the part of the Re
publicans. As the ballots were taken
In the Coliseum they waited and lis
tened and kept their tempers. They
were told they must "keep the faith"
and allow two ballots to be taken by
the Republicans according to the
Agreement between the peace conf
fereea and approved by Colonel Roose
velt himself. The approval of the
Colonel was a trump card held up fie
sleeves of the leaders but never play
ed, for when the Coliseum quit for
the night the delcgates.tired out with
long sitting in the hot sticky theatre
were willing to wait for a nomination.
"Twenty-four hours more w6nt
make any difference," said Governor
Hiram Johnson. The crowd agreed
and accepted the motion to adjourn.
There was little routine business
during the day. The platform van
tentatively agreed upon with only a
few changes.
Demands for 'immediate nomination
of Colonel Roosevelt came from the
Maine delegation seated on the stage
and were ouickly picked up by others
in the Auditorium.
The demands, however, seemed to
be made in good humor.
"When we're ready, we'll take Ted
dy." was a retort shouted in unison
by the Ohio delegation.
Delegate Merle D. Vincent, of Colo
rado spoke during the day and insist
ed that the regular order of business
be proceeded with. He praised Geo.
W. Perkins, bitterly assailed, "the
Reed Smoots and Murry Cranes," who
le said had more experience but less
'principle in political convention
"The Repub'Jcan leaders know we
have a pat hand," he said, "and they're
trying to make us lay down, by rais
ing the ante." The crowd laughed at
his poker-political simile and he was
farced to mount the stage."
Mr. Vincent said the delegates
would defer to Governor Johnson's re
ntier! to further postpone Colonel
Roosevelt's nomination.
And then," he said, "we will pro
ceed to execute the commission for
which we came here."
Henry Allen said he also agreed
with Governor Johnson's wishes, and
did so without regret.
Mr. Allen announced that Governor
Rrufraiigh of Pennsylvania had just
withdrawn in favor of Colonel Roose
velt at the Coliseum another gale of
cheers swept the Auditorium.
Vm. Flynn of Pennsylvania praised
George W. Perkins and said he also
had "something in his system" he was
not going to let out. You needn't
have, for one moment, any apprehen
sion that this bunch down at the Co
liseum is going to put it over on us,"
he said. "You take it from me, we're
playing the game right.
"We know we may have to go to
the bat with a third party ticket and
we want to go in good shape.
"They accuse me of having 3ome
ttTe been a boss. I don't know about
that. I mav have done it inadvertently."
X V
y Avtf
5; ' i r .
1 T? 4 I
" I t
4U
i i
V
r
t . f r s
"It
" . J! "V
1
JUSTICE CHARLES E. HUGHES.
Justice Charles Evans
Hushes, "the Siieut One",
is loailing the fit-itl of
eleven in the race lor the
Republican nominatioa for
president. The ' secon.l
ballot khowed Huiies ex
cepijnally Ftrons. jump
ing fro:;i 2"..T,b ou the first
ballot to S2iA on the sec
ond. Four hundred and
ninety five votes are
necessary for nomination.
He was ap(.Vinted as
ociate justice of the
"nited states supreme
court by former President
Taft in 1910. previous to
which h had been gov
ernor o' he state of New
York.
. Hugr ... was nominated
-st night by Arizona del
egates, giving way to
New York and was the
first man to have his
name presented to the
convent'on. tjv. Whit
man of Mew York made
the naminating speech
and tlie justice was given
an ovation of upwards of
thirty minutes.
Hughes' only fracture of
his sUadfast silence was
on M'jnday when he de
livered a Hag address be
fore the girl students of
an eas'sru seminary from
which Ms daughter was
being graduated. In that
speech he intimated he
was for a greater military
and industrial prepared
ness, but avoided any oth
er political declarations.
However, if . nominated,
he will automatically
pledge himself lj carry
out the platform principles
proclaimed by the Repub
lican party, which in
cludes a more vigorous
policy toward Mexico, a
navy second to n'jne, a
stronger army, the reten
tion of the Philippines, a
higher tariff, fair treat
ment of transportation
lines and all industrial
and ccffrtrcial interests,
compensation laws t'jr la
borers, civil service for
federal employes and a
national budget system,
also a merchant marine.
BOTH
i
1 LE
y fiuiiii
i AUSTR1AMS
! CAPTURED
: BY RUSS
LEADS REPUBLICAN FIELD
BALLOTS.
ROOSEVELT IS
i STRENGTH
Kill NINTH
Supporters Of Justice Battle For Third Ballot, But Conven
tion Adjourns Until 11 O'clock This Morning When
Voting Starts Again. Hughes Vote Jumps From 253
1-2 To 328 1-2 With 495 Vo.es Necessary
EXPECTATIONS HIGH THAT NOMINATION
WILL BE REACHED IN EARLY BALLOT TODAY
Delegations Keep Faith By C asting First Ballots For "Fav
orite Sons," With Weeks ,Root, Cummins, Fairbanks
Leading, But 16 Michiga nders Flop To Hughes On
Second Ballot And Scatt ered Delegates do The Same
Great Russian Offensive Con
tinues To Grow Over 250 J
Everywhere
GERMANS RUSHED
TO AID AUSTRIANS
Vienna Admits Men In Big
Retreat. Verdun Map Is
Unchanged, But Italians
Still Losing
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LONDON. June 9. The Russians
are keeping up with success their of
fensive against the .Austiians from
the Prioet River to the Rumanian bor
der, along a front of s'Jine 250 miles.
The troons of Knmeror Nicholas hnve
crossed the Stripa River in GaLiciaJ
and reached the Ziota Una River.)
HUGHES LEADS G. O. P. BALLOTING
Republicans started balloting at 7:45 p. m.. took two ballot,
but failed to nominate anyone and adjourned until 11 o'clock this
morning, w.'ien balloting will be continued.
A plurality, or 495 votes out.of 9 ST, is essential to nomination.
Biggest surprise was strength of Hughes on second ballot, gain
ing 75 votes over first ballot, showing "favorite son" delegations
were flopping to his support. Roosevelt gained a little on second
ballot. Jumping from 65 to 81, wtale Fairbanks jumped rroiu 74 1-1 to
88 1-2.
The official ballots are as follows:
Second ballot Hughes 32S 1-2 .Root 89 1-2, Burton 76 1-2. Weeks
79, Uupont 13. Sherman 65. Fairbanks S8 1-2. Cummins 85, Roosevelt
81. Lafolette 25. Mct'all 1. Knox 36. Willis 1. Wood 1, Harding 1. Wan
amaker 5. Not voting 2. Total 9S7.
First ballot Hughes 253 1-2. Root 103. Burton 77 1-2. Weeks 105.
Dupont 12, Sherman 66. Fairbanks74 1-2. (ummin 85. Roosevelt 65.
Latolette 23. Brumbaugh 29, Ford 32. Knox 36, Borah 2. Willis 4.
McCall 1. Taft 14. Not voting 2 1-2. Total 9S7.
WILSON PEHSSTR ATEBi STSOEMONSTRATEOH
DEMOCRATIC
PLi.om.1
President However, Watches
Other Conventions Closely.
Will Name Party Chairman
On Monday
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, June 9. The re
sults of the balloting at Chicago were
received at the White House tonight
by special wire, but President Wilson
did not see the dispatches until late
at n'ght when he returned from the
theatre. Then he went over them
carefully, together with many person
al messages from Democratic leaders
on the ground watching the Republi
can and Progressive conventions.
Purine the day the president snent
several hours working on the draft of
. platform he is preparing for submis
sion to the Democratic convention in
Pt. Louis and various planks also
were discussed in detail at the cabinet,
meetine.
Senator Walsh of Montana, who will
he the Montana member of the resolu
tion committee at St. Louis also work
ed during (he dav on planks for the
nlatform. He said every effort would
be made to keep the nlatform as short
as possible. A debate on suffrage is
xnected in the resolutions committee
ond most of the Democratic leads
here believe "votes for WT"en" will
he rpnroved, but a declaration made
t"t the resolution was one- for the
states to decide. It is not expected
that the prohibition plank will be in
cluded. .
The president is expected to make
Vnown his selection for chairman of
the Democratic committee tomorrow
or Monday. Several committeemen
mvp been suggested for the place in
cluding Messrs. Cummings of Con
necticut and Marsh, of Iowa.
To dispose of widely circulated re
ports that he mieht be chosen chair
man. Secretary McAdoo issued this
statement tonight:
"I have repeatedly stated that under
no circumstances would I accept the
chairmanship of the Democratic na
tional committee.
"This Is final."
i Petrograd reports that 1.143 otticersj
I and more than 64,700 men have been)
'taken prisoners since the vresent'
great drive against the Austrians be-1
san.. . I
East of Lutsk, near the center of!
(the advancing Russian line, General:
; Brnsiloff's troops have made import-1
I ant advances along the Styr Riveri
and the Kovel L'Jvno railway. It is!
reported from I'etrograd that German
troops have been sent to aid the
Austrians. I
Vienna admits that the Austro-j CTII I DIDIVIIIP
Hungarian troops have reached newj I II I rAnLllFflU
positAins on the river Styr in Vol- wiifch I nun
hynia after fighting the Russians.
(By Review Leased Vvire-i
Chicago. June 9. On the two .mly ballots taken today in the fepnb
llcan national convention Justice Hughes led the field and gained stren-tn.
His supporters contidetn that another ballot w'Jiild give him a majority,
resisted adjournment, but the conven vention. tired and worn with a con
tinuous 10 hours' session, was determined to rest until tonian'.iw morning
at 11 o'clock and adjourned until that hour.
It was thft first time since 1S8S t'dat a Republican convention has taken
more than one ballot to choose a presidential nominee.
On the first ballot Justice Hughes polled 253 a votes. He got 42 from
his own state and aside from Orej.'n and Florida the ivinninder were
largely scattering. On the second ballot he increased to 32Si votes. It
required 495 votes to nominate.
Col. Roosevelt's fipiniwt strength
in the tir.t day's balloting was SI
CONFEREES ARE
PLOT 10
DEFEAT
IN MEXICO
ALARMING
Field Prepares To Combine
Against Justice, And Night
Is Filled With Frenzied Se
cret Politics
Five hundred Harvard ; men have
ined to go to Plaftsburg and 100;
others to aviation school and naval
cruise.
ROOT ALONE HAS
TEDDYS SUPPORT
They May Center On Hint
And Having a Majority Of
Delegates Behind Them,
Can Defeat Hughes
(By Review Leased Wire)
CHICAGO. June 10 The last stand
of the Allies against the Hughes forces
which threatens to sweep the Repub
lican convention today has been or
dered. With more than a majority of
the delegates stil Ipledged to their
night to guard against desertions.
The plans of the commission were
guarded with the utmost secrecy but
it was necessary for the leaders to
take so many persons into their con
fidence that it became known that the
allies looked to Sagamore Hill for the
reinforcement ceded to make victory
theirs.
A word from Colonel Roosevelt they
all seemed to think would end the
chance of a nomination of Hughes and
his approval of any ally would give
that candidate strength to go before
the convention today with at least a
show to get the nomination.
The leaders in the committees were
-sneaking of Fairbanks of Indiana,
Weeks of Massachusetts and Burton
of Ohio, but it was hoped to relieve
them of other allied candidates.
Former Senator Root of New York
figured prominently in th eplans of
the combination as many of the politi
cal leaders are opposed to the nomi
nation of Hushes argued that they
must consider the proposed determi
nation of Colonel Roosevelt to get the
Republican nomination in 1920.
The Hughes managers profess not
to be alarmed by reports that th fa-
vorite sons were organized for a flglif
iContinued on Page T"o.)
! Anti-American Violence Cov
j ers Three States, Worrying
I Washington. Many U. S.
' Citizens Are Leaving
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. June 9. Anti
American demonstrations In northern
Mexico continue according to official!
: despatches today particularly in the:
states of Chihuahua. San Luis Potosi
and Nuevo Leon, and although thej
, manifestations thus far hnve Deen
i confined mostly to speech making con
sular agents have reported that the
I temper of the people appears such
(that any eventuality might be pos-
sicie.
Americans are leaving for the bor
der in steadily increasing numbers.
Under previous instructions, state
iart "cut agents in Mexico are giv
ing every possible aid. In addition
border agents have been instructed to
urge those seeking to return to Mex
ico to stay, on the American side of
the border for the present.
Some report said the demonstra
tions were in part incited by agitators.
Mass meetings were delivered in San
tiago last night and many speeches
condemning the presence of American
troops in Mexico were made. Similar
meetings have been held or are con
templ.-iicd at other points. The only
violence against American property
reported was at Chihuahua City and
Monterey where there are no consu
lar agents. Statements from Ameri
cans reaching the border and also
from consular agents in Mexico have
indicated that while General Carran
za's forces were trying to overcome
Hie demonstrations, their control was
not to be depended on entirely In
some districts. The agitators some
officials say may arouse public opin
ion to a point where an attempt to ex
pel General Pershing's ment by force
nay be undertaken. There is nothing
to indocnte that Carranza regular
troops will jr.in in such a movement,
but should Carranza forces join the
rioters a situation might be created
from which there would be no peace
ful escape. Army officials, have no
fear for the safety of the American
expedition. It is so closely concen
trated as to be fully able to defend
itself in any emergency and to lend
(Continued on Page 8)
The Germans after their successful Friendliness. But No Apree-
thrust in the Thiamont farm have; C f
ceased for the moment their infantry! ment, reatUTeS .Meeting
attacks against this section of thej Of Two Committees
Verdun front, Paris reports their ar-
tillery bombardment, however, con-!
tinued fj be Heavy in ttte region ' an,i Progressive peace conferees be
south of the Thiamont farm, in the Ran their second conference shortly
Chapitre wood, in the Fumin wood after 11 o'clock tonight. There was no
and south of Damloup. On the left indication as to how long it might
bank of the Meuse several attacks by last.
German infantry against Hill 304 have The committee representing the
been repulsed by the French. Progressives presented the object of
Under the pressure jf infantry and the committee in asking the represen
artillery attacks, the Italian troops tatives of the Republican convention
have withdrawn to new positions in to indicate fully any objection they
the zone east of Asiafio and east or had to Colonel Roosevelt or to name
the Campomulo valley. This is ad- substitute and suggest reasons why
mitted by R'jme. and Vienna officially this alternate candidate would be
votes. Besides Justice Hughes, the
Colonel. Charles W. Fairbanks and
Coleman Du Pont of all the 17 men
vlfj had votes on the first ballot
alone made an increase in tue second.
The expected demonstration for Col.
Roosevelt when he was nominated br
Senator Fall of New Mexico lasted 41
minutes and broke the record for this
J convention. All observers agreed that
CHICAGO, June 9. The Republican.it was lergely a gallery denAmstration
claims further gains on the Asiago
highlands The Austro-Hungarians re
port the number of Italians taken
prisoners since the beginning of the
month as 12,400
King Contsantine has signed an
order demobilizing twelve classes tf
the Greek army amounting to 150,000
men. Paris considers this action as
being the result of pressure by the
Entente aliles. The demobilization
order, it is reported frbm Athens,
may bring about the downfall .of the
Skculeodis ministry.
DE FACTOS CO OPERATE"
TO THWART RESULTS.
SAN ANTONIO. June 9. General
Parker at Brownsville today reported
to Genera lFunston that General Al
fredo Riraut was moving with a force
of Carranza troops along the Mexisan
side of the Rio Grande in the direc
tion of Nuevo teredo to co-operate in
the effort to prevent a raid across the
horde rby Luis de la Rosa and his
army. De la Rosa was last reported
at Jarita south of Laredo.
more available.
The conferees on behalf of the Re
publicans replied that there were two
difficulties facing them, first tliey had
no authority to speak for their conven
and the participation was scattering
from the delegate section. The Fair
banks demonstration ran next with
35 minutes, the Burton demonstration
lasted 34 minutes and the Hushes
demonstration lasted 20 minutes.
Favorite Son.
On the first ballot the delegates
followed their instructions, voting for
favorite sons and primary choices.
Senator Weeks j..t JOS: Elihu Root
lort. Cummins Sr.; Fairbanks 74:
Sherman 66: Roosevelt S"i. and Knox
36. Henry Ford got Michigan's C
votes by instruction. Former Presi
dent Taft got It from Texas and the
i scattering included mpllnn-tnarv
e"- I v., taw tnr TVtruh Vt'Illi. .1 l..v,'t
tion and second appearing for the Ke-' , . 'A "
publicans that it was not within their
province to name any one of the ten
as even the probable choice of those
who had clothed them with the com
mission to meet.
There was a long and friendly i-on-versation
but it ended as it began.
The opinion of those participating was
decided.
and the instructed vote for other
candidates.
Michigan Flops.
On the second ballot Michigan
turned 28 over to Hughes and gave
K'wsevelt 2: McCaal. of Massachu
setts turned his vote to the Justice
amid great applause. Senator Idae.
who had nominated Senator Week..
snr,r.r Rnrh ... nnilmUtic and Turned his vote to Colonel RMsevclt:
thought that an agreement could ulti- - Murray Crane announced his vote
mately be reached. Others were far Hughes: Missouri gave the Juati-e
fcss confident and thought likely that ' her votes and New Jersey cav
tlie Progressives would go ahead with one. The New Vjrk vote oa the se
their work and nominate today. nl t as Hughes 43. Root 42.
! Roosevelt 2. Pennsylvania's second
i ballot as Knox 36. Rcjsevelt ?2.
JAPANESE SHIP SINKS. i John Wanamaker 5. Hushes S. 'Mi-
TOMO. June 10 Advices received pont Root j and on, no, voting.
here from Korea say that the coastal
steam Oyo Maru has been wrecked la
a fog.
Gen. Wood Geta Vete.
Before the second ballot was tsk- n
one of the favorite sons tiov. i;rum-
Fifteen of the crew and five pass.n- baugh withdrew and propose.! the
gers are missing.
TEDDY TICKLED, SAYS HUGHES
HIT IH POINT, AND FAILED
(By Review Leased Wire j well pleased with result of the second f0i)w(,.
OYSTER PAY. X. Y.. June 9 Im , ballot which left Hughes far short of ,n aU j,,,,!,,, nehes gained 75
mediately after the adjournment of enough delegates to win the nomina- votp(, on th,. gocond ballot He gained
name Vf Colonel Roosevelt. The oth
er favorite sons remained through the
balloting. On the second ballot one
vote was cast for Major General
Leonard YV'.tod and one Tor Chair. nan
' Harding.
! Tomorrow.' the Hughes supporters
predict, they will continue to draw
strength and name their candidate.
I Hughes' Gains.
I An analysis showing where the
gains of Justice Hughes came from
the Republican convention tonigni. tion.
one in Alabama, two in California.
Colonel Roosevelt assumed personal ; Hughes adherents will not be able to on tn Georgia, one in Kentucky. tn
direction of the Progressive conven-' gain turtner sirengtn on succeeding
tion through his lieutenants over the! ballots and he seemed to attach sig
long distance telephone. He expected j nlfieance to the fact that it was Sen
to be up most of the night making ; ator Penrose who moved for an ad
plans for tomorrow. j lourrunent. It is the belief of Mr.
Colonel Roosevelt was kept in close : Roosevelt that the maximum of
touch with the balloting in Chicago Hughes strength was reached on the Texas, one In Utah, three in Virginia,
by Progressive leaders over he tele-' second ballot and that his own three in West Virginia, one in Hawaii.
phone and by the newspaper corres- getting the nomination were thereby He lost one vote in Arkansas and one
pondents at Oyster Bay. He seemed increased. (Continued on Page Four!
in Louisiana, two in Maine, eight m
Massachusetts. 28 in Michigan, four
in Missouri, two In Nebraska, three
in New Hampshire, four in New Jer
sey, one in New York, six in Pennsyl
vania, t In South Carolina, two in
