IT TO pj
VOL. XXXVI. NO 29
HAYS, ELLIS COUNTY, KANSAS, JUNE 10, 1916.
SUBSCRIPTION $1.50 PER YEAR
Tt
n1
il Ik
H
The only
way to make
money is to
save part
of
what you earn
We extend the same services and the same courtesies alike to all
depositors, whether their accounts are large or small.
No one is any more privileged to keey a bank account with us than
you are.
We would like to have you call this bank your bank, and you can
open as small an account as you like. Interest paid on savings.
HAYS, KANSAS
f, look at our sjp i
'aHLOVeLV LACES
Jake Bissing went to Kansas City,
Wednesday night.
Phone your order for meat and grocer
ies to T. H. Reed & Son.
to
Florence Ruth Starr.
Florence Ruth Starr was born in
Liberty, Nebr.', April 8, 1893, and pass-
, ed away May 22, 1916, at the home of
her aunt Mrs. T. Trimmer, aged 23
year', 1 month and-14 days. Since the
Bring your furniture repair work
A. Havemann. Phone 50. , death -of her mother at Canon City,
H. J. Penney and family left Tues-! Colo., five years ago, she has made her
day'morning for Leavenworth.
Mrs. Goodall returned Tuesda- even
ing, from a visit to Pennsylvania.
Miss Allie Sutton of Hodgensville,
Ky., is visiting Miss Sutton and mother.
Mrs. Azel Cochran and children are
visiting friends at Plainville this week.
Alex F. Brungardt is' here from
Omaha, visiting friends and attending
court.
wnetner -you-need-"trimmings" to make
new clothes or to make over old ones
come in and see our lovely (aces and em
broideries and dainty useful little things of
every kind.
; Our buyers, with eyes ever open for the
beautiful, choose with artistic skill the trim
mings for your costume ribbons, laces,
cmbroideiries, buttons everything you
NEED and DESIRE to make your outfit one
harmonious whole; and then we sell them
and everything else at a LOW PRICE for the
higH quality.
H. A. NICKLES, Hays, Kansas
All mortgages are written- in our
-office at Hays, Kansas. We pay
out as soon as papers are signed.
Plenty money on hand for this pur
pose. No delay. J. M. Schaefer.
- v
Kindergarten.
Miss Boughton of LaCrosse, Wis.,
will open the kindergarten in the public
school building, Monday morning:, June
12. Send the little folks along. No
tuition is charged. -
The Playground.
Beginning Monday, June 12, the pub
lic playground will be open every even
ing. Mr. Harris and Miss Hussey will
be in charge,
O! Interest to Farmers.
As usual, we are the first in. the field
to pay hail losses to our farmers this
season. The fields of Mr. Jake Miller
and Mr. James Ross near Hyacinth,
were struck by hail on Saturday, May
20th. On Wednesday, May 24th, we
settled these losses to the entire satis
faction of both parties. Can you beat
this for prompt settlement? If you
have not insured yet, come in and do so
before it is too late. Remember we do
not haunt you to death, but neverthe
less appreciate your business. We will
write your hail business at cash rates,
without interest. You can always find
us at our office.
Prof. Shively delivered a commence
ment address at Quinter, last Saturday
evening. W. W, Bemis .of the Bemis Automo
bile Garage, had a mess of new pota
toes from his own garden Sunday. -
"Good Things to Eat" Buy your
meat and fancy groceries at T. H. Reed
& Son's; service and quality both.
Our old friend J. F. Burk, was down
from Ogallah, this week. He was a
pleasant caller at the Free Press office.
Miss Esther Baldwin who has been
teaching near Wichita is here for the
vacation.
Ira E. Loyd of Ellsworth, G. A.
Spencer of Salina, and G. W. Holland
of Russell, are attending court, here
this week.
An automobile speeder was fined' in
Justice Arnold's court the first of the
week. Speeding within tha corporate
limits is contray to law.
Bring your furniture repair work t
A. Havemann. Phone 50.
The County Sunday School Conven
tion will meet at the Methodist church
in this city, June 16, 1916. All who are
interested are invited to attend.
C. W. Miller has a nice seven room
dwelling in Kansas City well located,
modern, up-to-date to trade foi a
dwelling in Hays, or land not too far
west.
Mrs. C. E. Vallette of Glen Elder,
Kansas, accompanied by her small
daughter, is visiting Mr. and Mrs. C.
j A'. Shively of East Normal Avenue.
The members of the Lutheran So-
' ciety gave a party at the church Wed
nesday evening, in honor of Mrs. Wiest,
their pastor's wife. A pleasant time
was hacTby all present.
You will save money by placing
your farm loan with us. We pay
cash as soon as papers are signed.
J. M. Schaefer.
Mrs. Stella Bartholic has commenced
excavating for a residence on Juniata
Avenue, just west of the C. W. Reeder
home. The building will be 28x32 and
two stories high, and when completed
will be a substantial addition to west
Hays.
Louis Kraus, H. E. Pierce, and H.
A. Palmer, drove over to Hutchinson,
Wednesday, to meet the officers of the
Baldwin Standing Grain Thresher Co.,
and were pleased to learn the progress
the company is making in the manu
facturing of the machines.
Azel Cochran is erecting four neat
five room cottages in the Cochran addi
tion. The Warren Baker Construction
Company is doing the work. The build
ings were started May 10. Two of
them will be ready for occupancy the
last of next week and the others a week
later.
Bring your furniture repair work to
A. Havemann. Phone 50.
The continuation school conducted by
the Training Department of the Nor
mal School, has a splendid enrollment
and is doing fine work. Reading, lan
guaee, geograpny, antnmetic ana in
dustrial work are emphasized. Miss
j home with her uncle, George V. Starr,
J at Hays, Kan., and her aunt, Mrs.
i Trimmer, of Liberty. She leaves to
mourn her loss, ner ia.tner, Henry
Starr, two brothers, Harry C. and
Thomas S. , Uncle Thad, aunt Eda Trim
mer and other relatives. We cannot
mourn for Florence. She was a pure,
perfect child of God. She has for years
been a patient sufferer, a firm believer
in her Heavenly Father's love and
by her patient, cheerful life exemplified
her true faith, love and trust in Hirn
that He would do all things. All those
who knew and came in contact with her
could not but feel the force of her in
vincible faith and trust to her all
powerful, all loving Heavenly Father.
She is not dead, only sleeping. The
Pawnee Chief, Pawnee, Nebr.
Mrs. Geo. Starr, who had been at the
bedside of Florence several weeks be
fore her death, returned Tuesday.
Nee del 3 -Clark.
Married, at the residence of the
bride's parents, Mr. aad Mrs. A. B.
Needels, at their farm home south of
Walker, Wednesday afternoon at 3:15,
Miss Lois Needels and Mr. A. Vernon
Clark. The ceremony was performed
by Rev. Simpson, pastor of the M. E.
church of Galacia. Kansas.
The groom is the eldest son of the
Editor of the Free Press and partner
in the business, and the bride is a very
estimable young lady who has been at
tending the Fort Hays Normal School
the past two years, and setting type in
the Free Press effice afternoons and Sat
urdays. The yourg couple have com
menced housekeeping in the Stimits
residence in North Hays.
Ground has been broken for the new
Prasbyterian manse.
J. H. Lieker of Munjor, went to Sj.
lina, this Friday morning.
Roy Wentworth and Miss Katie Bur
gardt, were married Monday of this
week.
If you want first class milk, pure ani j - .
The United States Census Statistics
CONTAINS SOME INTERESTING FIGURES
These figures show that sixty-six, read it, (66) out
of -100 people dying in the United States have ab
solutely no estate. They die penniless.
Of the remaining thirty-four (34) persons, twenty-five
die with less thar $1300, and onlv nine (9)
persons in one hundred (100) have more than $5000
when they die.
The above figures are not estimates, idle guesses -or
fiction, they are the facts, arrived at by the U.
S. Government in its Census reports.
The remedy is simple. Just save your monev.
We will be glad to have you open an account
with us.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK
HAYS, KANSAS
Unveiling of Statue.
The Saturday Afternoon Club of Hays
has caught the spirit of community' ser.
vice. While following a course of study
for self -improvement, the organization I
has planned for and placed in the Public Creek, the first of the week, and as
unadulterated, phone Frank Howie. It
will be delivered at your residence.
Will Montgomery was thrown from
j a horse Monday. Two ribs were brok
en and he was otherwise quite serious
ly injured.
A fight occured among the rough
necks who infest the jungles on Big
a
result Sheriff Robinson has four cf
them in jail.
During the summer vacation Wilfred
Wann, who is a student at K. U., will
take a special course in . Journalism,
under Prof. P. Caspar Harvey, at the
Fort Hays Normal.
Miss Anna Kellar is adding a second
Library a beautixui castor marine
statue made by the celebrated sculptor,
Cyrus E. Dallin of Boston. The statue
is that of Sa-ca-ja-we-a, a Shoshone
Indian woman- who, though but sixteen
years of age, acted .s guide to th
Lewis and Clark Expedition to the Paci
fic. To this Tr.dinn o-irl is rhip mnrh of thf
success of the expedition. The author ry tU reJ,'uene "u
of "The Magnificent Adventure" in th? : Street- Harry Stock, Sr.. has the con
May number of Munsey's magazine, i tract for the penter work, which is a
says of her: "She should have a thou. ! grantee of good work well done,
sand memorials along the old trail! Her Dr. Meade and family left Thursday
name should be known familiarly by j night., for Chicago, where the doctor
every school child in America." ' will take a post graduate coursa in a
The Saturday Afternoon Club is plan- medical college and Mrs. Meade will
ning an exercise for the unveiling of j visit friends during their stay in Chi
this statue, possibly during this month, j cago.
j Prof. E. B. Matthew and family re
j turned the first of the weekf rom Madi
i son, Wisconsin, where Mr. Matthew
has been specializing in Agriculture
Akers and Davis, and helped along by
Charley Sessions and other State-House
fellows.
Frank Motz of Parsons Marries.
San
to which the public is cordially invited.
Watch for the date.
Court Items.
All the junior liens against the U. S.
Portland Cement Co., were settled this
week.
In the divorce case of Bryant vs.
Bryant a decree was. entered in favor
of Mrs. Bryant. '" -
Malcom vs. Malcom a divorce case
from Trego county, came up on an ap
plication for alimony. Mrs. Malcom
prayed for $100. The court allowed
her $25 and enjoined Mr. Malcom from
selling or disposing of any of the
property.
Nash vs. Nash divorce case, was
heard and taken under advisement.
J. M. Schaefer Loan & Insurance Co. ' Schoenhals i3 supervisor of instruction.
Hail I
nsurance
To
Whom it May Concern:
We, the undersigned, heartily recommend J. M. Schaefer of Hays, Kansas, to all those intend
ing to insure their growing wheat against Hail storms this season. Mr. Schaefer has demonstrated
to us last season that the business entrusted to his care will be honestly looked after. The compa
nies represented by him have treated their customers on the square in regard to adjustments and
prompt payment of losses. In making this statement voluntary, we feel that we sre not only giving
credit where credit is due, but also in justice to our brother farmers who are looking for a safe place
to do business.
John F. Weigel, loss paid $2800
JohnSeitz, " " 100
James Ross, " " 511
Henry Gottschalk " " 312
CarlWerth, " " 455
MR. FARMER:
D. F. McCarty,
Joe Bahl,
Peter J; Staab,
F. Schoendollar
and 48 others.
575
528
140
1856
I submit the above, statement for your consideration before placing your insurance this year.
The Alminac predicts severe hail storms in 1916. Are you prepared? In 1915 we paid more than
50 claims for losses. The smallest was for $100; the largest for $2800. and not one dissatisfied cus
tomer. We have established a record for prompt payment of losses in 1915, why not place your
business with us this year? Don't Jet the other fellow talk you into insuring with an Irresponsible
Company but see uis NOW. What is worth doing at all is worth doing quickly. -
Our Patrons are Our Best Recommendation
Yours for business,
T. M. SCHAEFER.
' P. S. We will write-your Hail business at cash rates, without interest Our losses" will be
adjusted again by our own men, payment being made in the field on day of adjustment. - Does this
sound right to you? .
Notice.
All subscribers for stock in the Gold
en Belt Fair Association are hereby
notified to meet at the New Opera
Iuse in Hays, Kansas, on June 15th
at 2:30 p. m, for the purpose of com
pleting the organization, electing a
Board of Directors, and making a!l
necessary arrangements for buildin
and improving the Fair Grounds.
All subscribers and parties interested
in a good Fair, are requested to be
present.
Do not forget the date, 2:30 p. m.,
Thursday, June 15, 1916-
Miss. Anna Kellar presented the
Free Press f?mily with a box of dell
cious strawoerries tne nrst ot tne
week, grown in her garden. The patch
is not a large one but she has already
harvested about 103 quarts and there
are sun unripe Domes tnai win ripen
later.
Mr. Lou Kraus, has just been noti
fied by the Baldwin Sales Company,
that one of those famous standing
grain threshers will be shipped to him
this week. It will be demonstrated
soon at the Experiment Station and
those interested should be present. A
later date wili be announced. H. A.
Palmer special representative and Mr.
R. J. Raymond, are here and can be
seen at the Hotel Brunswick.
The people of Hays have shown much
interest in the erection of the Marker
of Custer's headquarters on- Custer's
Island. A large number braved the
threatening storm to attend the un
veiling, rl. U. bhaffer, H. L. Pestana,
and Herbert Chittenden were among
the speakers. Mrs. A. D. Gilkeson,
and Mrs. J. H. Middlekauff, who had
visited Gen. Custer on that island, were
photographed beside the marker. A
Boston newspaper wrote for an account
and pictures of the event. Other big.
dailies have published articles about it.
Early Thursday morning, the Wind
sor hotel experienced rather a serious ,
fire. The fire occurred in the kitchen
Cafe anex which is being run by .Mrs.
Christoff erson. The blaze was caused .
by the careless handling of a can filled
with gasoline by a young man who is
in the employ of Mrs. ChristofTerson,
while building a fire to cook breakfast.
The inside walls were burned and
blackened. A fresh supply of sugar,
flour, and. other groceries were burned.
The los3 to the house and contents will
probably total $200. It is strange that
men and women, too, can't understand
that gasoline if inSamable, and there
fore dangerous.
I the past 3ear. He is now at the head
j of the Agriculture department of the
j Fort Hay3 Normal School.
Chas. Staab's new bungalow in north
west Hays is assuming proportion and
when finished will be one of the most
up-to-date bungalows in the city. It
will be modeled after the latest archi
tecture. Justus Bissing, contractor,
has charge of this structure.
The special train carrying the Kan
sas City Commercial Club arrived in
Ha3-s, Thursday afternoon on schedule
time and quite a crowd was at the depot
to welcome them. A number of them
were taken cut to the Experiment
Station in automobiles, others visited
the stores, hotels and printing office.
Among those that called at the Free
Press office were, J. T. Backus, Sales
manager of the Missouri Interstate
paper house; Fred Cornell, manager of
Keystone Type Foundry and Frank
Bartydt, of the American Type Foun
ders Co. They were a fine bunch cf
representative business men from the
big Missouri river city, the metropolis
of the middle west.
Editor and Iianager of Parsons
Marries Miss Leota McFarlin,
Teacher in Columbus.
Parsons, Kan., June 1. Miss Leota
McFarlin and Frank Motz, the latter
the editor of the Parsons Sun, were
married this afternoon at the home of
the bride's grandparents, Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Trago, the Rev. Alexander
Hawke, of the Episcopal church officiat
ing. Only immediate relatives of the
couple were present. They leave to
night for a short wedding trip in the
Ozarks. The bride is the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. T. E. McFarlin, of Belle
ville, and for the past two years has
been a teacher in the High school at
Columbus. Both are graduates of the
University of Kansas. Mr. Motz hav
ing graduated in 1911 and his bride a
year later. Mrs. McFarlin is a mem
ber of the Pi Beta Phi sorority. Mr.
Motz has been with the Sun for three
years, for the past two years editor
and manager. Special to the Capital.
Experiment Station Items.
Mis 3 Kathryn Morgan of Colorado
Springs, is a guest of Mrs. 'C. R.
Weeks.
The Experiment Station force has
been helping District Farm Demon
sfrator Boys on his Hessian fly cam
paign.
Supt. Weeks and several stockmen of
Ellis county, attended the Stockmen's
meeting at Manhattan, Friday.
The Station was represented at the
Farmers Union picnic at Rush Center,
Tuesday.
Many demonstrations are held on the
Station grounds ' from time to time.
Mike Unrein showed hi3 new tractor
header to a representative of Eastern
machine companies, last Saturday.
Don't Nejlect It.
One of the city ordinances requires
all persons who build a residence in any
part of the city, or a business house to
take out a building permit, failure to
do so will subject you to an arrest and
fine. Don't neglect it.
Frank King, Fire Chief.
Dissolution Notics
The partnership heretofore existing
between W. F. Banker and W.W. Bemis
has been dissolved. Bunker retiring.
Bemis will continue the business, take
charge of the accounts, and "settle the
bills. w. F. Bunker,
W. W. Bemis.
State House Officials Are Worried
Topeka, Kaxs., June 12 (Special to
the Free Press) There is nervousness
Lin several of the State offices in the
State House. It is caused by the rumors
of revolt that come from many counties
by Republicans who see a machine
operation in the State House hatching
out candidates for State offices a die
tation the out-State Republicans do net
relish.
" The little State-House machine has
picked all candidates for State offices
for thi3 year and two years hence," a
Seventh district man declared in the
Governor's ofnee a few days ago. ' The
little State-House crowd i3 strong on
' assistants.' The promotion of depu
ties or assistants is the plan, except
when they can put over one of the elect
with a third term." That was handed
to W. E. Davis two years ago, and it is
being worked now for W. D. Ros3 for a
third term for State Superintendent. I
understand that if Davis. can pull -"his
assistant throngh he will simply fall
back and take a second place. Ross is
pleading for ' two years more Jio work
cut his plans,' although he has been
connected with that office nine years.
and ought to have done something in
that time."
The complaint from out in the State
is, tiiat btate .treasurer Akers and
State Auditor Davis, both of whom re
tained fees and pulled through by a
narrow margin two years ago, ought to
be satisfied to permit the Republican
voters to select their successors. The
charge is made that assistants in both
offices are being pushed and urged by
Akers and Davis, and that State time.
State-paid stenographers, State sta
tionery and State stamps are being,
used to aid them, and thus keep intact
the State-House machine. The rumors
which reach Topeka from many sections
is that this will be an issue in the com
ing primary, and that the voters intend
to break up the State-House machine
and candidate hatchery engineered by
For Saie.
One Buick car model 16, in good
condition for sale cheap, alstf one good
Overland roadster. For information
call at the John O'Laughlin Garage.
Strayed cr Stolen.
White Spitz(male) dog, full grown.
Answers to name of Wee-Wee. Reward
for his return. Paul Oshant,
Hays, Kansas.
Harness, Harness, Harness.
I have double harness, single harness,
all kinds of collars; can fit any horse or
mule. Come and see- them at the
O'Laughlin Garage.
Do you want to save money on
your farm loan? See us this
month. We need your business
and will make a rate to get iL
J. M. Schaefer
Hail Hail-Hail.
An old line hail policy in the Connec
ticut is as safe a3 a? government bond.
Settlement immediate, no delay or red
tape. Your note for the premium.
H. W. Oshant
Notice to Contractors.
Sealed bids for painting the exterior
woodwork of the public school building
will be received by the Board of Educa
tion. Bids should be filed with the
Clerk on or before June 21. For sieci-
fications see the Clerk or Dr. Geo. B.
Snyder, Chairman of Buildings and I
Grounds. A. O. RnTvrr, '
Clerk. !
The Ca.se ol Max Anderson
Last Wednesday Attorney Max An
derson, the Beloit criminal lawyer who
is seeking the nomination for Congress
in this district at the hands of the Re
publican voters, while in our city look
ing after the interests of his candidacy,
made our effice a short call to put ua
rifht relative to his position in the con
test. Max carries with him a bundle
of letters and newspaper clippings bear
ing on hi3 standing and influence in hi3
home county, and his particular qualifi
cations for the office he seeks.
He is a young fellow, boyish in ap
pearance, and evidently isn't a very
good logician, for he spent most of his
time trying to convince us that all the
letters emanating from bis home county
derogatory to his reputation as t. man
among men were inspired by personal
enemies and unworthy of our thought
and consideration, and those which favor
him and his candidacy come solely out
of the fullness of the heart of the good
people of Mitchell county without any
regard to his moral or social alfgwaests.
Max may be a good lawyer, but we re
fuse as a juror in the court of public
opinion to believe that every citizen in
his home county who is supporting him
is doing it because of his superior quali
fications, and with no regard whatever
to any selfish or biased alignments, and
all those opposing him have a selfish
axe to grind.
It seems to be a pure case ef a young
man reaping what he has sown, and wo
are convinced by letters we have re
ceived from his home county, and by
conversations we have had with citizens
of hi3 county that it is his own fault
that he can't get the endorsement of
the W. C. T. U. of Mitchell connty, and
as far as we are concern edwe propose
to support a man whose record is as
clear as a bell so far as booze is con
cerned, and that man is Otis L. Ben
ton, who has the unequivocal endorse
ment of the W. C. T. U. of his home
county, and that because he ha never
in any way tampered with booze. Fred
E. Bear in Hoxie Sentinel, May 25, 1916.
For Sale.
A dwelling house, 3 lots, four rooms,
summer kitchen, cement cellar under
kitchen, fruit and shade trees. Pro-
fertv in good neighborhood. Prioe
1,6000.
' Farmers.
A-4iail policy in the Connecticut is a
guarantee of prompt and satisfactory
settlement in case of loss. Don't hesi
tate. Cash or note.
H. W. Oshaat.
MRS. FLORENCE HALE
Teacher of Expression
'and Dramatic Art...
Graduate of Valparaiso University Depart
ment or uratory under Hror. Bogarte
'05 Normal Ave.
Phoxe 190
nvestment...
HpHE BALDWIN STANDING GRAIN THRESHER
GETS THE GRAIN AT A LOT LESS EXPENSE
FOR PARTICULARS BEFORE THIS STOCK IS ALL
GONE. SEE
ij Palmer & Raymond
HOTEL ERUNSWICK
HAYS, KANSAS
!!
