Weeks and Sherman Withdraw Their Dele
HARRISBURG liBlS TELEGRAPH
r YYYW 1 7 7 BV CARRIER « CENTS A WEEK.
LaAA V i\o. 100 SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
HUGHES NOMINATED FOR
PRESIDENT; THIRD BALLOT
GIVES HIM 949V 2 VOTES
New Jersey Turns Trick With How the Candidates
c j»j \r . j n i Stood in the Bsllotins
ootid Vote and rennsylva-
First Second Tliird
nia Then Turns in With HllJrtl „ I »»& *•«&
Weeks 105 7» S
Seventy-two For Him *£* m j- ;;;;; IV* Z
Hurton "lis *H!i
_ . .. , Fairbanks ... .1 741* 88)4
FAIRBANKS NAMED Sherman 60 «5
Roosevelt <ls Hi 18*4
FOR SECOND PLACE'.OSS :::::::::S - z
1 Brumbaugh ... 211
l.a Follette .... 2."> 25 S
Nomination Is Followed by !,'h'pont l* is 1
_ .. , Willis 4 i
Demonstration; Mrs. Long- a h „ ;;;;;;; \ ~ Z
worth Present When Vote «™ nw . k . CT .;.'.' Z
'Harding —■ 1
Wn. Tahpn " j Lodge .
rr us i until | x ( ,t voting .... 2 1
Convention Hall. Chicago, 111., June 10.—The nomination of
Justice Charles E. Hughes to-dav is accepted upon all sides as the
logical and proper outcome of a remarkable convention. Until the
ballot was taken, however, there was great uncertainty and the mes
sage from Oyster Hay for a moment caused a wave of demoralization
to sweep over the immense throng that crowded every inch of the
Coliseum.
There is general satisfaction over the result. Every step in the
proceedings has been taken with infinite patience and regard for the
rights of all concerned. Only the most radical Progressive finds
reason for complaint. I lis only protest is that the Colonel was not
chosen to lead the reunited party. Substantial union has been
achieved and a winning campaign is assured. Justice Hughes is
believed to represent the highest ideals of the Republican party and
there appears to be 110 doubt here that he will have the support of
eighty per cent, of the Progressive vote.
Prominent leaders of the Roosevelt wing have told me to-day
that the radical and intolerant and irreconcilable section of their
organization have refused to listen to the counsel of the experienced
and level-headed and will go their own way, but that the nomination
of Justice Hughes means the coming together of all who subscribe
to the Republican doctrine and who are grounded in the faith
E. J. S. '
Coliseum. Chicago, June 10.—Charles Evans Hughes,
of New York, was to-day nominated for President of the
United States by the Republican national convention and
Charles Warren Fairbanks, of Indiana, was named for
\ ice-President.
Justice Hughes' nomination came 011 the third ballot
and but one ballot was needed to select for Vice-Presi
dent Fairbanks.
There was an enthusiastic demonstration after the
candidates were named.
The delegates considered the nomination of Fair
banks so certain that after giving their ballots to the
heads of delegations, they began piling out- of the hall
and almost drowned out the voting with the noise.
Fairbanks was nominated by a vote of 863: Burkett
polled 108: Johnson 1; Borah 8; Webster 2: Burton 1.
Three not voting and one absent. Pennsvlvania gave him
7 4 votes and Burkett 1. One of the Pennsylvania dele
gates was absent.
Charles Evans Hughes was nominated on the third
ballot. His vote was practically unanimous. He received
>49]/ 2 . Roosevelt received 18y 2 , DuPont, 5; Weeks 3-
3, and Lodge, 7. One was absent.
Before the rollcall had covered half the States
I THE WEATHER
For Harrlaburg and vicinityi Un
settled tveathrr to-night anil Sun
day) probably occasional light
»howor«i not much rhansre in
temperature.
For Eaatern l'ennx.i Ivaniai Partly
cloudy to-nlfelit anil Sunday, with
prohahly local showers: not much
change in temperature; light to
moderate varinhle winds.
. Rtor
The Susquehanna river and all lt«
branches will fall slowly or re
main nearly ntallonary. A stace
of about 7.fl feet in indicated for
HariishurK Sunday morning .
(General Condition*
The Ntnrni hns remained nenrly sta
tionary over l.ake Michigan and
a KM dually HIIIIIK up. It hnn cann
ed unsettled weather and ahow
crs from the Ippcr Mississippi
A alley eastward to the Atlantic
coast in th«» Inst twenty-four
hours.
Temperatures hate fallen 2 to 1(1
«lc»rr>es over the Pacific slope and
risen '* lo H deucee* ifcncrally be
tween the Kockv Mountains and
'he >1 IsnisMippl river. Fast of the
Mississippi tent pcrature cliniiKes
have been Nllcht, lielnsc from 2 to
0 decrees lower In the ttlantle
Mates from Maine to \orth Caro
lina.
Temperature: * a. m.. ft*.
Sum Rises, 4:3(1 a. m.; sets. 7iJI2
p. m.
Bloom Full moon, June 15, 4:42
p. m.
River Stage: 8.1 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Ilia best temperature, 04.
Lowest temperature. .10.
Menu temperature, 80.
\ormal temperature, 00.
mm
Vacation Season Is Here
Rest and recreation will not be
complete unless you have all the
news from home dally. The Har
risburg Telegraph will fill the gap.
Don't spend your precious vaca
tion time trying to "get used" to
strange newspapers.
Just drop a postal or call the
1 Circulation Department and the
next issue will meet you, no mat
t-r where you are.
Six cents a week.
[Continued on I'age 2]
CONVENTION
BY BU
Coliseum, 11 a. M.—The Republican
| convention was again late in assem
bling. At 11 o'clock the hall was fill
ing slowly and many gallery seats
were vacant.
11-12 The aisles were becoming
crowded and the police began to urge
the delegates to their seats.
11:29—California expects to lead off
balloting with her entire 26 votes for
j Hughes.
11:22—McGrath. Roosevelt's secre
tary, appeared on the platform. Chair-
I man Harding was asked what it
I meant. "We are going to get to-
I gether," he said.
11:29 The Republican convention
is neinK held up until the members of
the peace committee can prepare their
report of the morning's conference.
11:24 -The Xew York delegation
conferred on the floor on the way in
which they should withdraw Root's
name, and discussed vice-presidential
| preference. It is said the bulk of them
| will go to Hughes.
j 11:37—James Hemenway stated
I that If Fairbanks is nominated for sec-
I ond place he will accept.
11:39—1t is definitely stated Fair
j banks has released all his supporters,
I except the Indiana delegation which
will cast one more ballot for him.
| 11:40—The Ohio delegation has ap
i pointed a committee of their number
j to canvass the situation with the view
| that the 48 votes of the State should
be cast as a.unit.
11:42—-Ex-Secretary Stimson stated
the New \ork delegation, with pos
sibly a few exceptions, will RO to
Hughes, and to Fairbanks for Vice-
President.
11:45—Ohio delegation, with one
possible exception, will vote for
Hughes.
11:48—McGrath, Roosevelt's secre
tary, is on the platform to present a
' telegram from Roosevelt addressed
to the Republican convention in the
j interest of peace.
[Continued on I'ajje 2]
HARRISBURG, PA., SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 10, 1916
I JUSTICE HUGHES, REPUBLICAN NOMI
V. ; J
.v--.:
CHARI/ES EVANS J-iUGHEb", >IJSS HEX/EH HUGHES ; JIRS CHARJUES EVfcNS HUGHES.
JPsiaxvS <# *TSHWSA_E.WJ*f<S»
Justice Charles Kvans Hughes, of the Cnited States Stiorem© Court, and Republican nominee for President
Mrs. Hughes and their daughter, Mi ss Helen Hughes, who is now in chargo of the Y. W. C. A girls' camu at
Canton, Pa.
AMERICANS ARE
FLEEING MEXICO
Fear Iliots After Meetings Pro
testing Against Presence of
U. S. Troops
By Associated Press
Washington, June 10.—rAdministra
. tion officials were uneasy to-day over
I continued reports of anti-American
' demonstrations in Northern Mexico,
i Americans in Mexico, fearing serious
! riots, are making their way to the
i order in greater numbers and those
i seeking to return to Mexico are being
| advised against such action by border j
j agents acting under orders.
Most demonstrations have gone no
further than mass meetings and
I speeches by agitators who resent the:
presence of American troops on Mex
| lean soil. Carranza troops have;
sought usually to disperse such g&ih- j
i erir.gs. Officials fear Mexican public 1
opinion may Hare into open rioting
direct against American citizens, al
though no fear is felt for the safety of,
I General Pershing's forces.
In the States of Chihuahua, San!
! Luis Potosi and Duevlo Leon, anti-1
Americans, demonstrations have been
i particularly numerous and attacks on I
| American property were reported from
Chihuahua and Monterey, where
I there are no consular agents.
MORK TRUCKS NKKDKI)
By Associated Pros
Washington, June 10.—More motor
j trucks are needed by the American
lorces in Mexico and probably will be ]
j supplied. General Funston reported;
j to-day to the War Department that!
bad roads and continual use of trucks
j in hauling supplies had caused a num- |
' her to break down. The rainy season, !
now starting, make ample transporta-
I tion facilities urgent, he explained.
I More than 300 trucks and about 100
other motor vehicles arc now with
1 the American expeditionary force,
jarmy officials declared.
STREXGTHKX BORDER PATROL
By Associated Press
San Antonio, Texas, June 10. A
squadron of Texas militia cavalry en
trained for Laredo to-day to strength- ;
len the troops on patrol duty in the!
Laredo district, where the activities of;
jthe bandit Kosa. south of Laredo, has;
I caused alarm.
U. S. CASHIER IME 1 ?
By Associated Press
Washington, June 10 James A. !
Sample, cashier of the United States i
, treasury, died suddenly here last night I
at the age of 72 years. The end came'
jji'st as he had concluded a tribute toj
the na'ional emblem at the annual
j banquet of the National Rifles Veter-;
ans' Association. Mr. Sample was a
native of Indiana and a personal
friend of Abraham Lincoln and was'
appointed teller in the Treasury De-,
I partm it during: Mr. Lincoln's ad-1
[ministration, 1
GOVERNOR'S VOTE
i MAY HAVE ECHO
Going lo Have Effect 011 Capi
tol Hill When Party He
turns, Is Report
BRO W X DISAPPOINTED
Says He Knows "Bunco Men"
and Ttilks of "Documents"
as Evidence
(By staff Correspondent)
i Chicago, Ills., June 10. The ef
fect of the vote of Pennsylvania's
delegation on the first ballot for the
Presidential nomination in the Re
| publican national convention last night j
j is going to be felt on Capitol Hill at I
Harrisburg before many days, accord
ing to rumors which are current this
j morning about the Keystone head- j
j quarters. While no statement has |
| been made by the Governor it is j
; known that he and his friends are dis-1
appointed at the showing made and!
that they are displeased because some j
delegates whom it was understood |
would be with the Governor turned in j
for Knox. It is also intimated that I
the claim of forty-one delegates made
i by Attorney General Brown was based
, upon evidence documentary and
i Otherwise which may be published.
J The Governor spoke only in a gen
eral way of the convention this niorn
! ing.
"It is a wonderful gathering and I
am hoping that it will result in the!
party being reunited. lam doing all
I can to bring that about," he said.
Attorney General Brown made some
comments upon the action of the
Pennsylvania delegation in the course
of which he said:*
"Well, we know who our friends
are now. That first ballot enabled us
■to find out who are the bunco men
|and who are the bunco steerers."
j "What does that mean?" he was
atked.
"Oil, I'm going back to Harrisburg
before long and I have some very in
teresting exhibits I'm going to look
I o.ver. 1 know the bunco men now,"
leplied the Attorney General,
i Mr. Brown celebrated his flftv
eighth birthday yesterday and Gov
jernor Willis, of Ohio, who was in the
party with Governor Brumbaugh, said
; Mr. Brown did not look it.
The anti-Brumbaugh delegates held
conferences last nighl and several of
| the members will switch to Hughes >
( thlb morning. Others may give Knox
I another complimentary vote.
B. H.
; PLAN TO INSPECT
i DRIVE NEXT WEEK
Planning Coimnissin and Advi
sory Park Board to Visit
Encircling Road
With the official inspection next
1 week by the members of the advisory
j park board and the City Planning
Commission the story of the building
of the new parkway road from the
I Cameron terminus to Reservoir Park
j will have been told.
The Central Construction and Sup
ply Company, the contractor, has fin
ished the job and only a few odds and
[Continued on Page 16.]
Sleepwalker Hurt in Fall
From 3rd Story Window
J. K. Spohn. 1519 Wallace street,
walked in his sleep early this morning
; and, stepping out of the third-story
| window, fell to the pavement in front
lof his home. He sustained fractures
! of both arms and a probable fracture
;of the leg. People in the vicinity who
| were returning home hurried to his
j aid and rushed him to the Harrisburg
| Hospital. Spohn told the physicians
that he was dreaming that the house
was afire. He came here recently from
Newport. s
SEVENTH WARDERS ORGANIZE
Beidleman-Krcidcr Republican Club
Elects Officers
Forty or more enthusiastic colored
I voters of the Sixth precinct of the
Seventh ward last evening formally
organized the Beldleman-Kreider Re
publican Club by electing Noah Dock
ens president; William Banks, vice
president; Charles Johnson, secretary,
and Robert Waters, treasurer.
Plans were discussed for the coming
campaign and the now club decided to
hold a big benefit ball June 22 at Ver
beke and Monroe streets to raise funds
for the club treasury.
New Ten Per Cent. Wage
Increase at Hershey
Hershey, Pa., June 10.—The Her
shey Chocolate Company to-day an
nounced an additional advance of 10
per cent, in wages. This Is the second
increase of 10 per cent, in the present j
! year.
APPOINT n RICK Firs SUCCESSOR
Word was received here to-day that i
Internal Revenue Collector Davis, of j
Lancaster, has appointed A. B. Gard- I
ner. former Democratic select council
man from the Ninth ward, to succeed ,
William S. Bricker. {
BULL MOOSE WILD TRANSPORT SUNK;
OVER NOMINATION FRENCH LOSING;
OF COL ROOSEVELT RUSS TAKE 5,500
Arc Recessed Before Tliey Italian Boat With Big Number
Learn Action of Republi- of Soldiers Attacked by
can Convention Austrian U-Boat
JOHNSON SECOND CHOICE HAMPSHIHE HIT MINE
Will Be Nominated For Vice- D » . .
.. . , . Pctrograd Announces Contmu-
President I his Evening; .. „ .
„ ! ance ol Successes Against
Same Running Mates ( l )( jj
By Associated Press
Rome. June 0, via Paris, June 10.—
Auditorium. —.At the very mo-1 1Italian transport Principe Um
bc-rto has been torpedoed and sunk if
ment when it was flashed to the Pro- ,|ie lower Adriatic with a loss of r
gressive convention that Hughes had VIV
been nominated at the Coliseum as the ' by tw -
. - _ other transports, conveying troops ini'
standard bearer of the Republican wai materials and escorted h,v dc
stro.\crs, was attacked by two Austria
party, Chairman liobins of the Pro- submarines. The Principe Cnipcrp
! sank a few moments after being struct
gressive convention, was announcing
[Continued on Page 11]
that Colonel Roosevelt had been _ . ~ ~
unanimously nominated as the Pro- J®<«OUS Wife Kills
gressive leader. The convention went, Husband in City Stree'
wild and there was no way to inform' Frederick. Aid.. June 10.—After fol
| the delegates what had transpired at S^^i n^^^UX. b Mr" S X^
'the Coliseum. For several minutes Ue Hic , kma " yesterday morning drev
a revolver from her coat pocket am
Chairman Kobins vainly rapped for shot William Hickman. Standing be
, side her dying husband, Mrs. Hickma
order. called residents of the neighborhoo
' to send for a physician, shouting, "l'v v
Five minutes had passed before or- shot Will."
. The shooting occurred in front o*
der was restored and James A. Gar- , the saloon of John B. Hickmai .
~ .. , . ... . . . brother of the victim,
field, of Ohio, without telling the dele- Mrs. Hickman said that she shot her
i w..~i i j i . , husband following a quarrel,
gates that Hughes had been named at shot (o ? rlK JJ ten hlm/ . Bh .
the Coliseum, asked for a recess to ™ oaned - "I didn't, mean to kill him
, He was running with other women.
3 p. m. after singing one verse of sllp leaned over Hie body of he
husband until taken away forcibly
America. Screaming that she hadn't intended t>
kill him, she was taken to the count,
Johnson For Second Place jail.
„ According to th" wife. Hickman re
".No, no. yelled the delegates but turned home about midnight. An at
, gument began. Airs. Hickman accusing
nairm.in Robins said the time asked her husband of "rushing" other womei
for was necessary and finally the dele- Hickman left the house, declaring h
gates yielded and the delegates began | would never return. Pocketing a re
to file out at 12:42 to return again at volver. Airs. Hickman followed. Sh
3 p - m - I claims that, she begged him to go bac::
„ Ito her and their three children. Hi.
(Contiiuied on Page 18.) refusal led to the tragedy.
»w/ywsS
(
r Washington.—Hughes accepts nomination and resigns K
I fron Supreme Court. - 1 •
9 Washington, D. C.. June 10. Word that jr
I Hughes and Colonel Roosevelt had been nominate, V, u c I
two conventions in Chicago was communicated to President'®!
!| Wilson immediately on its receipt here. There was no for- # ,
| msl comment, but administration supporters were obviously fcj
delighted. 2 *
Indianapolis, Ind., June 10. Ex-Vice-President Fair: \
I banks may decline the nomination for Vice-President. To I 4
day he sent the following telegram to ex-Senator Hernet L
way: |
I "My name must not be considered for Vice-President I
P and ii is presented I wish it .withdrawn. Please V
I draw it."
Pennsylvania delegates to the Democratic national con-*
I ven'io ,i* F>;. Louis will'leave Philadelp: : to-morro • pi;: <- V |
people will join the special train here. ' ►
PENNSYLVANIA PROGRESSIVES DIVIDED fl J
a Convention Hall, Chicago, 111., June l&i—Pennsyl- t
ivania's Progressive delegation gives signs of being »
divided on the future of the party. William Flinn, who has ;
1 become one of the conservatives of the organization, was .
1 !
busy all morning counselling moderation but several of the 1
» radical element from the Keystone State were demanding !
the immediate nomination of Roosevelt so as to "put it up r
[ to hi n," as they said. Some of the radicals from Pennsyl-j
Ivania favor a third party no matter what Roosevelt doev , :
A. B. H. j, 1
P REPUBLICANS ADJOURN ' [
j COLISEUM, JUNE 10. AT 2.02 P. M„ REPUBLI- i L
* CAN CONVENTION ADJOURNED. ' J
I Washington, D. C., June 10.—Senator Walsh, of Mon- | fa
I tana, and Senator James, of Kentucky, were the first *
| cratic It ideris to see President Wilson after the nominations ;
I in Chicago. They discussed with the President the Dcmo-1 ' ,
• crat,ic platform. Both predicted victory for the President
> in November. • f
UARRUGE LICENSES ( ,
I William Franklin Keefcr anil Mary Anon Hoiujhtfn, rlty. < harlra
lloniiinil Huberts anil Aiila Koinalnr IVrry, fit). Harvey llonk llnvrlmrr, [
HuilinielNtoivu, anil Krla linthryn Martin, Kerry ( hurek. ( baric* \u£ua-
TIIN Ivelle.v MIIII Mildred Katclln \rnnld, HiKhiplrc, Maurice Shepherd
Hunt, WlliuliKlvn, Del., and l.ntuun Maude Urania, city. Bruce Morrla| '
iWlnter and Eaael Catherine Penny, Letuoyne. , *
20 PAGES CITY EDITION
