THE DONALDSONVILLE CIIEF.
C I A Wide-Awake Home Newspaper-Published Every Saturday-Subscription Price, $2 a Year.
VOLUME XLV. DONALDSONVILLE, LA., SATURDAY, JUNE 10, 191.6. _
--- --- , -~- . .... .. .<. ... .... ... . NUMBER 45,
NEWS OF THE PHOTOPLAYS [
Coming Attractions at the Local Movie Houses 4
• i$It~l il miB liinim D i i
"Betty of Graystone."
The Triangle feature at the Gem
tonight will tbe "Betty of Graystone,"
a five-reel Fine Arts production star
ring lDorothy Gish, one of the most
winstomne :nd popular screen artists in
America. The story of the play is as
follows:
Betty (lorothy Gish) is accustom
ed to vi.it Gr(aystone Gables, a man
sion near her New' England home.
Her fatht.r is caretaker of the place.
Her mother is somewhat of a scold
and make.- a drudge of the girl. Af
ter her father's death, her mother
marries Jim Weed (George Fawcett),
a widower with two sons. His brutal
behavior cowes both Betty and her
mother. Betty is discovered by I)avid
Chandler (Owen Moore), who owlns
Graystone Gables, while she is in the
house. She has togged herself up in
some fine clothes she has found there.
They become good friends. Weed's
sons attempt to rob the place. Betty
scares them away at first disguised in
a sheet. They come back with a
party, discovering Betty and David
together. Betty is drummed out of
town by the evil-minded villagers.
David discovers her by the roadside
and puts her in charge of a society
woman of New York. Mrs. Mildred
Lee, the chaperon, inducts her into
bohemian ways. Betty becomes dis
gusted and runs away. She finally re
turns to the town of Graystone. Her
cruel step-father and brothers refuse
to let her see her dying mother. She
goes to Graystone Gables. There
David appears on the scene and res
cues her from her step-brother, Si
Weed. The play ends with the wed
ding of Betty and David.
George Beban in "The Pawn of Fate."
George Beban, recognized as the
greatest impersonator of Italian and
French character roles on the present
day stage, will be seen at the Gem
tomorrow in the new World Film Cor
poration's feature entitled, " The
Pawn of Fate." Following is a syn
opsis of the story:
Pierre Dufrene and his wife Mar
cine live contentedly on their pic
turesque farm in Normandy, France.
With Pierre's old father to aid them,
they pursue their simple rural lives,
as wholesome and happy a young cou
pie as could be found in the province.
While romping through the mea
Sows, Mareine stwumbtles upon Lesar, a
young painter from Paris, who is
sketching at his easel. Pierre, in pur
suit of his wife, finds her and Lesar
picking up the scattered parapher
nalia with which she had collided.
This is the beginning of the ro
mance. Lesar, who is a wealthy
Parisian and dabbles in art on the
side, is attracted by Pierre's pretty}
wife. He returns to Paris for a few
days, leaving his painting materials
in Pierre's keeping.
Pierre, who has become deeply in
terested in watching Lesar at work,
conceives the idea that he too can
paint. With Marcine as his model he
daubs upon one of Lesar's canvasses
a crude portrait, which to the simple,
untrained ideas of Marcine and
Pierre's old father, appears as a mar
velous work of art.
Lesar returns to find thelittle fam
ily imbued with the idea that Pierre is
a potential genius. The unscrupulous
young Parisian sees the humor of the
thing and also a chance to make
Pierre's artistic ambition the means
to a successful culmination of his in
terest in Marcine. lie induces Pierre
and Marcine to come to the city as his
guests. They are established in
luxurious quarters and Pierre en
thusiastically begins what he hopes
will be a picture that will make him
famous. While Pierre labors at his
canvas, Lesar pays insidious suit to
Marcine, who slowly but surely finds
herself drifting under the spell of the
young Parisian's charms and the bril
liancy of the gay Parisian life, of
which Lesar is giving her her first
wonderful glimpse.
At last Pierre's great picture is
finished and Lesar arranges, as the
climax of his joke, to unveil the can
vas at a big party to which he invites
all of the wits and gay revellers of
his Parisian circle.
Lesar works the hoax to its climax
with malicious cruelty. Suspecting
nothing, Pierre is led to the veiled
painting and proudly draws aside the
draperies, disclosing his crude and
ridiculous attempt to paint a rural
landscape. The peals of laughter and
satirical comment come as a terrific
shock to the poor peasant-painter, and
he undergoes all the tortures of bitter
disillusionment.
To add to Pierre's fury, when he
discovers that he has been the butt of
a ghastly joke, comes a seemingly
well-founded suspicion that his wife
has been as unfaithful to him as his
suppsed friend. Lesar. With the
rage of a maddened bull, Pierre
springs upon Lesar and a terrific
fight ensues, ending with Pierre the
victor and Lesar apparently in a dy
ing condition.
Pierre rushes forth and staggers
through the streets of Paris in des
pair. He attempts to bolster up his
courage with absinthe and is about to
end it all by leaping into the Seine,
when arrested and taken back to
Lesar's apartment.
Although desperately wounded,
Lesar, conscience-strickcn by the re
sult of his scheme, confesses to Pierre
that his alone is the guilt, and forces
Pierre to believe in Marcine's inno
cence. In a scene of powerful pathos
and deep heart interest, comes the re
coneiliation between Pierre and Mar
Cine in their old homestead in the
heart of Normandy.
The New Orleans Elks are to spend
S200,000 in remodeling and enlarg
intheir home. The social hall in the
new structure is to have a seating c
CaPcity of 3000 and will be sup- f
Plsed with a modern stage fully t
M31iped for theatrical performances. t
Mme. Petrova in "Playing with Fire."
Mime. Petrova, the gifted emotional
star, will be seen in the stellar role of
"Playing with Fire," a five-part Me
tro wonderplay which will be present
ed at the Grand Theatre tomorrow.
In this production Mme. Petrova has
the role of a cameo cutter, who be
comes temporarily blind while making
.i cameo of the.daughter of a wealthy
man. He induces her to come to his
home until she recovers her eyesight,
and while there he falls in love with
her. Out of gratitude she marries
him.
4While visiting artist friends in the
city she becomes infatuated with the
ir.other of her deaest girl friend.
Sin a moment of weakness she suc
.cumbs to his ardent advances. He
soon discloses that he does not care
i'. her, and disheartened, she re
turns to her husband, whom she be
gins to love for his many sterling
qualities. Soon afterward she learns
that her step-daughter is in love with
this same man, and that they are
planning to marry. When she finds
that she cannot break off their rela
tions, in desperation she confesses
her affair with the man to her step
daughter. The girl turns against her,
but promptly forgives her sweetheart.
The man threatens to expose her
to her husband unless she leaves off
interfering with his marriage to the
girl. She writes to her husband, who
is away on a trip, and tells him of the
entire affair. In the meantime she
learns that the man is luring the girl
to his studio on a false pretext, and
she follows her. Her husband, who
has received her letter, returns and
sees her enter the studio. Indignant,
he enters after her, only to find that
:he has rescued his daughter from the
desperate attack of her false suit9r,
and that in the struggle the man has
been killed by his own pistol. The
trio are happily re-united.
Mary Pickford in "The Foundling."
As "The Foundling," in which she
will appear at the Grand Monday,
Mary Pickford portrays one of the
most sweetly pathetic characters she
has ever impersonated on the screen.
The foundling is the daughter of a
struggling artist, at whose birth her
mother dies. Because of his wonder
ful love for his wife, the artist hates
the child that caused her death, and
gives the, baby girl to a mothering
heart= who car o.r~if. T'lTi tra.'gdy
of his wife's death brings to the artist
the master-touch he has so long
sought, and in t'he years that follow
he wins fame and fortune; but in the
sunset of life he realizes its emptiness
and futility, and yearns for the re
turn of fhe child he had driven from
his heart. She, in the meantime, has
drifted through a strange and varying
life. How the threads of destiny
unite these parted souls, bringing to
each its first genuine happiness, is
absorbingly unfolded in this unique
photoplay.
Theda Bara in "The Galley Slave."
A cast of unusual excellence is
seen in support of the seductive The
da Bara, "destiny's dark archangel,"
in the notable William Fox success,
"The Galley Slave," which comes to
the Grand Tuesday. Headed by the
universal favorite, Stuart Holmes, the
brilliant young American leading
man, the players assembled are
among the best known in the country.
Dainty Claire Whitney has an im
portant role, Henry Leone is seen in
a part of striking power, and other
players of equal ability are in the
long cast of characters. Last, but
not least (except in point of size), is
little Jane Lee, the gifted child act
ress whose four-year-old talents have
brought audiences the nation-wide to
her feet.
"The Galley Slave" scored a
smashing success on the occasion of
its original stage production. The
screen version is a photodrama of
trenchant power and virility that
strikes home with an unforgettable
"punch."
"The Tongues of Men."
The Wednesday offering at the
Grand will he "The Tongues of Men,"
a sparkling drama of love versus duty
wherein Constance Collier, the inter
nationally famous London star, plays
the leading role. Following is a.brief
outline of the story:
In a sermon on the evil of the thea
tre the Rev. Dr. Penfield Sturgis, rec
tor of fashionable St. Martins-in-the
Lane, refers directly to Jane Bartlett
and the grand opera "Zaporah" of
which she is the star. Stung to the
quick she accepts the challenge he
has given and determines to make him
"eat his sermon, word for word."
On the strength of the rector's ser
mon the mayor closes the opera, but
the Rev. Dr. Penfield having had a
chance to study Miss Bartlett at close
range, realizes her bigness. He dis
covers that out of the goodness of her
heart she has been quietly educating
a number of poor girls, feeding hun
gry composers and lending a kindly
ear to the downhearted.
Repentant, he decides that he owes
her an apology, which he makes in an
open letter to the newspapers. At this
his congregation rises in arms and to
preserve his dignity the young rector
offers to marry the prima-donna. She
accepts, thus having carried out her
threat. At this point the story takes
an unexpected turn; why not see the
play and enjoy it yourself?
An Unusual Love Story.
When two love-sick young people
run off to be married-and aren't
caught-they usually get married.
It was different with Grace Vernon
and Hugh Ridgway, though. Worn
out by the social affairs given in hon
or of their approachjng marriage, they
elope in the wee sma' hours of a cer
tain summer morning, and, being mis
taken for house-breakers, are pur
- ' .
" sued. A couple of cops as added
,I starters make the chase even more in
f teresting, and they don't breathe eas
ily until, a couple of hours after
climbing a rope ladder up the side of
r an ocean liner, they come out from
s their hiding place and find themselves
at sea. Not nearly so much "at sea"
g then, however, as later, when Hugh
y finds that Grace is much smitten with
s Henry Veath, an old time friend of
his. Hugh cares nothing about the
fact that Lady Tenny, another passen
s -r', seems to care more for his society
than for anyone's else.
Comes a typhoon, the ship is dash
a ed on the rocks, and in the ensuing
darkness and panic Hugh makes brave
- attempt to save one who clings close
a ly to him-one he thinks to be Grace.
e Then blackness, and with returning
- consciousness and the light, the reali
zation that he is cast away on a
strange tropical isle-the isle of Ne
dra-with-Lady Tenny!
1 Add to this that they are found and
3 worshipped as two gods by the say
Sage natives of the isle-that their en
forced wedding is interrupted by the
landing of a U, S. ship-that Hugh
Sgoes home only to find Grace married
to Veath-that he finds he doesn't
care a particle-that he rushes back
to Lady Tenny-and you have just
a bare conception of the most roman
Stic love story ever filmed.
Its title is "Nedra;" author, Geo.
Barr McCutcheon; and it will be pre
sented as a Pathe Gold Rooster fea
ture at the Grand next Thursday,
June 15.
Sussue Hayakawa in "The Typhoon."
"The Typhoon," which will be the
attraction at the Grand next Friday,
depicts the unusual story of the love
and tragedy of a young Japanese and
Helene, a Parisian actress, interwoven
with the intrigues of the Japanese
government, its spy and its methods
of procedure. The crowning climax
is a heroic sacrifice of Hironari, show
ing the loyalty of the Japanese race
to their country, even to the giving
of life itself.
Tokoramo has been sent to Paris
by his country to secure the plans of
the French military forces. His work
is interfered with by the visits to his
office of Helene, a chorus girl with
whom he has fallen in love. Helene
has heartlessly thrown over her fiance
Bernisky for the new and interesting
Jap5 and meanwhile Toko's country
men in Paris have been informed by
their spy of Helene's visits.
Tokoramo endeavors to keep Hel
ene from coming, because he is work
ing day and night; but to no avail.
She continues to visit his apartments
against his wishes, and one day while
there her rejected sweetheart forces
his way past the servant into Toko's
room. Toko quickly hides Helene be
hind a curtain, where she listens to
her own denunciation and exposure
from the lips of the man she has so
lightly deserted. When Bernisky de
parts, Toko brings Helene from her
hiding-place and bids her go forever,
but she pleads passionately to re
main. Toko will not listen and de
nmands that she leave at once. Helene
starts, and Toko, realizing how much
he cares for her, calls her back. Then
she refuses to stay, and in vehement
denunciation tells him she will go
back to Bernisky and laughs at him
--calls him a "yellow rat" and bids
him return to his yellow country from
whence he came. This enrages Toko,
and he strangles Helene to death and
leaves her lying lifeless on his bed.
The remainder of the story shows
graphically how Toko's countrymen
rally for their country. Toko must do
his work-one of them must plead
guilty. This lot is chosen by Hiro
nari, a mere boy, who is finally
guillotined. In the end and as Toko
has completed his work, he too dies,
and the valuable papers are burned
to escape detection just as the police
are breaking into the apartment.
The scene shows the vain sacrifice
that has been made by the Japanese
for the "sake of Nippon."
The Object in Cattle Dipping.
There is a common, although erro
neous, impression that the dipping of
cattle is merely to get the ticks off
them; and while this is partly true,
the chief part the cattle play in the
process is to keep gathering ticks
from the pasture (tick-infested) until
the ticks have all been gathered up
and destroyed in the dipping vat. If
the dipping is kept up every 21 days,
without fail, that will be the result, as
the ticks .develop on the animal and
fall off on an average of 22 days.
From this it is seen that the 21-day
dipping catches the ticks before they;
have had time to drop off and produce
more ticks.
The ticks that are found on the
animals between dippings are those
that have been picked up since the
previous dipping and which would be'
destroyed at the next 21-day dipping
period.-W. H. Dalrymple, Louisiana
State University.
The pretty custom of rendering an
officer's salute to all veterans of the
civil war when they are recognized
on the street, started by enlisted men
of the United States Marine Corps,
may be made compulsory for all en
listed men of whatever service arm
if the joint resolution introduced into
the house by Representative L. C.
Dyer, of Missouri, passes. Sergeant
Edward A. Callan, of the Marine
Corps, is the author of the resolution
which will require enlisted men of
the army, navy, and Marine Corps to
salute the veterans of war from '61 to
'65.
Every able-bodied citizen of As
cension parish, the home of the big,
South Louisiana Fair, should wear a
key from now until October 5. It is
concrete, tangible evidence that you
believe in the fair and want to boost
it. In other words, it proves that you
are a patriotic, public-spirited citizen.
I I
THE BETTER THE HOPS
THE BETTER THE BEER FLAVOR .
HEUSER-BUSCH have by many the
' sands of pounds more Saazer Hops i~
Itheir giant storage houses than has a1ir
other brewery in Europe or America. Before th4
wa our President, while abroad on his annu~1
hop-buy!nm pilgrimage, bought 775,000 pounds (5t.
bas) of Bohemia s very finest Saazer Hops. T
this add the 500,000 pounds we had on handan%
you will see that w g ca uarantee gmi1lio
always, have the same exclusive Saazer Up
flavor which has help.d its sales to exceed ay
other beer by millions of bottles.
ANHEUSER-BUSCH ST.IOUIS, U.S.A.
Visitors to St. Louis are courteously mvited to inspect our plant--covers 142 acres.
Means Moderation
Donaldsonville Ice Co., Ltd.
Distributors, Donaldsonville, La.
!(.
Robert Lansing to be Next President.
It will surprise a good many people
no doubt, to learn that, barring acci
dents, fecretary of State Robert Lan
sing will be the next president of the
United States. His term of service
in the office is to be very brief, how
ever, for at the end of twenty-four
hours after assuming the presidential
rtoga he will doff it again in favor of
President Wilson or the nominee of
the Republican convention, accord
ing to the result of the November
ection. The explanation of this
statement is to be found in the fact
that the 4th of March, 1917, falls on
a Sunday, and from noon of that day,
when President Wilson's present
term expires, until such hour on the
following day as the oath of office is
administered to the newly-elected
president, the secretary of state must
fill the chief executiveship according
to the constitutional requirement.
The home merchants are prepared
to supply your needs. Buy from
them, and by keeping your money at
home help build up your own com
munity.
THE NICHOLLS
F. ROGGE, Prop.
Mississippi street, between Rail
road Ave. and Lessard street.
A POPULAR RESORT FOR
GENTLEMEN
A thorough and select line of
Wines, Liquors and Cigars at
the bar. Ice-cold Beer al
ways on draught.
POOL AND BILLIARD HALL
IN CONNECTION.
A private room for meetings and
social gatherings.
Courteous treatment to our
patrons.
FOR RENT.
AT AN EXTREMELY LOW RATE, two
small cottages in Nicholls avenue, be
tween Lessard and St. Patrick streets.
Apply to MRS. JAMES FORTIER, Donald
sonville, La.
LOUISIANA'S GOVERNOR.
One of New School of Political Lead
ers in the South.
The following interesting little
sketch of Louisiana's new governor is
copied from the Monroe News-Star of
the 2nd instant:
"Col. Ruffin Golson Pleasant, the
new governor of Louisiana, and a
member of the new school of politi
cal leaders in the south, is 45 years
old today. Along the Gulf every
body knows Col. Pleasant. He was
finishing his law studies in northern
colleges when the Spanish war broke
out. Hastening home, he organized
a voluhteer regiment, the First Lou
isiana Infantry, and equipped the or
ganization in record time. After dis
bandment of his regiment, Col. Pleas
ant began law practice at Shreveport.
Within a few years he was city attor
ney. In 1911 he was assistant attor
ney general of the state, and in the
following year was elected attorney
general. Col. Pleasant was born at
Shiloh, La., June 2, 1871. He at
tended various colleges in Louisiana,
including the State University, and
studied law at Harvard and Yale.
While he was city attorney at Shreve
port he married one of the belles of
that city, Miss Anne Ector, daughter
of a general in the Confederate army.
The executive mansion at Baton
Rouge is the scene of pleasant enter
tainment and the social center of
Louisiana. Col. Pleasant is extreme
ly popular not only in his own state
but throughout the entire south. He
is of the new school of political lead
ers that are eliminating the issues
of the past and focussing attention
qn the problems of the present day."
Robert L. Prophit, one of the best
known citizens of Monroe, La., died
there last Sunday night from the ef
,fects of an overdose of carbolic acid,
but whether the drug was taken with
suicidal intent or by mistake for a
medicine he had been using to induce
sleep is not known. Mr.Prophit was in
his sixty-sixth year, and was a suc
cessful and prosperous business man.
He is survived by his wife, four
daughters and four sons, all but one
of whom are residents of Monroe.
Keep in touch with local happenings
by investing $2 for one year's sub.
seription to The Chief, your home
paper.
LIVE STOCK MARKET.
Information of Interest for Breeders
and Shippers.
Today's receipts: Cattle, 5200;
hogs, 10,000.
The market is operding steady to
strong this week, and prospects are
good for the balance of the week.
Killing cattle: Choice to prime fed
steers, $8.65 to $9.25; good to choice,
$8.25 to $8.85; medium to good,
$7.75 to $8.25; common to medium,
$6.75 to .$7.75; canners, $4.50 to $5;
cutters, $6.25 to $7; light bulls, $5r25
to $5.75; heavy bulls, $6 to $7; year
lings, $4.75 to $5,25; heretics, $5.75
to $6.50; light veat calves, $6 to
$10.50.
Cattle from tick free territory:
Good to choice quality thin steers,
$6.75 to $7.25; medium to good, $6
to $6.75; common to medium, $5.25
to $6; light yearlings, $5.25 to $5.75;
young cows, $5 to $5.50; young
heifers, $5.75 to $6.25
The packers had 3060 hogs direct.
Pig market closed 25 cents lower, top
$9.50; bulk of the good hogs 160 lbs.
up, $9.15 to $9.40;; roughs, $8.75 to
$9.10; 120 to 140-1b. pigs, $8.50 to
$9; lighter pigs, $7.25 to $8.25.
NATIONAL LIVE STOCK COMMIS
SION COMPANY,
LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE.
The Chief is not responsible for
views expressed by eorrespondents.
Convert tpe Nono-Believers.
Paincourtville, La,; May 29, 1916,
Editor Chief:
With all the talk abodt the eradica
tion of the tick,`there are many doubt
ing Thomases who will have to be
shown how dipping i9 in any way ben
eficial to cattle. Suppose a booth
were given at the South Louisiana
Fair next October, in which to illus
trate to the people what is derived
from dipping? I think if the people
were shown what dipping will do,
many of those who are strongly
,against putting money in dipping vats,
and against the dipping of cattle, will
be just as strongly in favor of it.
P. F. V. LABARRE.
For results! Atvertise in The
Chief. Rates on application.
Show your coloi, Wear a fair key.
McCALL TO ENLARGE HERDS.
Stock Company Organized and Policy
of Expansion Formulated.
New Orleans Item, June 4.
If every sugar planter in Louisi
ana would start now in the pure-bred
live stock business, as did Evan J. Mc
Call two years ago, and all of them
should meet with the same success as
MdcCall did, it wouldn't make much
,itfereice in another year or two,
irom a farm prefit point ef view,
whether sugar goes on the free list or
riot, The sugar sections woFild pros
vper just the same; probably in larger
n.easure than heretofore.
About two years ago Mr. Mc{,all,
with a aimited' amount of ready cap
ital, engaged in the live stock busi
i e..ss on a small scale on the Evan Hall
sugar plantation near Donaldsonville.
Sthe talk of free sugar was: ringing in
ra, ears. te went to Kentucky and
bought 23 registered Duroc sows and
:e boar. Late, he journeyed to
e'ands a.d bought 1~ pure bred Short
not . cows with calves and a herd bull.
'ncday, two of the most famous ani
1mal s in the United States--Louisi
a~na Defender and Watson-are on
thei McCall place and were raised en
tur'ely by him. Defender has won
grand champion premiums wherever
showni, in the swine ring, and Watson
has captured two successive cham
pionships at the National Fat Stock
Show. He is insured for $1000.
Last fall, Mr. McCall's herd of
swine had been built up to 400 head.
I The demand for good hogs then be
gan to grow. As McCall was in the
breeding business and not selling for
pork, he sold to all comers, the ani
mals bringing good prices. While
supplying the demand for registered
hogs in Louisiana in order to boost
up the live stock in'~tstry in the state,
his herd diminished to such an extent
that it must be doubled. Mr. McCall
declares he has, at this tim.e, more or
ders for Duroc pigs for future deliv
ery than he can possibly expect to fill
unless he gets in more foundation
stock. This he will do within a few
weeks. He says he will go to the
north and buy the finest blooded stock
obtainable-better stock than 'ie ori
ginally bought in Kentucky. He
realizes- the hog business is growing
and paying in Louisiana, and that the
buyers want 'the best stock.
The McCall Blue Ribbon Live Stock
Farm has been incorporated with
$40,000 capital stock. Mr. McCall is
president and general manager; Jules
C.. Werner, a Well-known Orleanian,
is vice president; H. G. McCall, secre
tary and treasurer. C, B. Fox, also
of New Orileansn onie .of. thi ;eity's
principal Zrmqi(;e ters, is a s -toc
The new company will enter into
the live stock business on a big scale.
Besides doubling the cattle and swine
herds, the workiing force on the farn
will be enlarged. More feed crops
wiiU be grown and arrangements will
be made to carry a larger number of
aninals to the arious fairs this fall
than ever before.
When men like Mr. Fox and Mr.
Werner become actively interested in
a live stock farm, it is a safe bet that
it is a safe game to play. They be
lieve in Louisiana's future as to rais
ing hogs and cattle, and have invested
their money on the strength of this
belief and on the strength of Mr. Mc
Call's fine showing with stock in the
past two years. They are to be com
mended. There is still room and op
portunity for other city folks to in
vest in simiilar propositions. Live
stock raising is certainly a safe prop
nitinn in T.nLouisiana.
Mr. McCall, accompaned by R. W.
Kiser, beef cattle specialist of the L.
S U. extension service, will leave
next Tuesday for Texas, where he
will purchase a big lot of the finest
pure bred Shorthorns that can be
found. Three carloads will be
bought and shipped to Louisiana; Mc
Call will get most of these, but Mr.
Kiser will buy several head for other
patties who have caught the wise
idea of live stock farming. The cat
tle will be secured from ranchmen
near Fort Worth, and McCall says he
will endeavor to get the Watson
blood or even better.
It is the desire of the directors of
the company to build up the largest
and finest herd of hogs and cattle in
Louisiana. McCall says he does not
care as much about having the large
herd as he does about having fihe
stock. In this he is right. It is time
for Louisiana to get rid of the scrub
sires and dams and put in pure-bred
animals. And if the Blue Ribbon
Farm can raise enough of this fine
stock to supply the Louisiana demand,
so that home people can buy good
stock from home people, it will be a
big thing for Louisiana.
Mr. McCall knows all about the su
gar business. Probably no one in the
state could tell him anything about
the ups and downs of that one-crop
system, which should be discarded and
diversification practiced. He de
clares that the cattle and hog -indus
try has nept him on his feet. The
cattle have paid dividends as large,
in proportion to the first investment,
as the hogs. He considers a live stock
farm, even if.very small, a very vilu
able adjunct to any sugar plantation
-he proved it on his own place and
is now growing bigger and richer.
Corn, oats, alfalfa, soy and velvet
beans, lespedeza, peanuts and red clo
ver are growing in abundance on Mc
Call's place. He says you can't make
money out of hogs and cattle unless
you feed them-and that feed must
be grown at home and not bought
from stores.
Forethought.
People are learning that a little
forethought often saves them a big
expense. Here is an instance: "I do
not believe that our family has been
without Chamberlain's Colic, Cholera
and Diarrhoea Remedy since we com
menced keeping house years ago.
When we go on an extended visit we
take it with us." Obtainable every
where.- (Adv.)
Mrs. W. A. Poche, 211 Chetimaches
street, teaches piano, singing and
harmony. Beginners a specialty.
