CIRCULATIONi a ^ _ y
Dafly Average A vJ/A
for May, 1916 ilBgMBJ
A Quality Newspaper for th. Hem.
ADVERTISING IN
THE WEST VIRGINIAN
BRINGS TRADE I
Northern West Virginia's Greatest Newspaper
? "iTEM
ASSOCIATED PRESS.
ESTABLISHED 1868.
FAIRMONT, WEST VIRGINIA, SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 10,1916.
TODAY'S NEWS TODAV.
FAIRBANKS OF INDIANA AGAIN <
CANDIDATE FOR VICE PRESIDENT
COLISEUM, Chicago, June 10?Charles Evans Hughes of New York was nominat
ed for President today by the Republican National Convention on third ballot today.
His vote was practically unanimous. He received 949y2 votes. Roosevelt received
18Vo, Dupont 0, Weeks 3, and Lodge 7. One was absent.
Before the roll call had covered half the states Hughes had the necessary 494. New
Jersey touched the mark.
The chair asked if the nomination should be made unanimous and A. P. Moore made
the motion. The chair then recognized Senator Lodge who seconded the motion and
made an eloquent appeal for Hughes' election.
John Wanamaker then placed Fairbanks in nomination for vice president and Ne
braska presented the name of Former Senator Burkett. Ohio decided not to present
Theodore Burton and Gov. Willis seconded the Fairbanks nomination.
This practically assured Fairbank's nomination and the Convention cheered.
HUGHES HEARS THE NEWS.
WASHINGTON, Juno 10.?Justice Hughes was told of his nomination for Presidency by a newspaper man
at his home where he had been at work all during the Republican convention on decisions to bo handed down
Monday, probably his last day as an associate justice of the Supreme court.
He received the news without evident emotion, saying, "I havo nothing to say at this time but will mako
statement later in the day."
' PROGRESSIVES WANT STATEMENT.
AUDITORIUM, June 10.?At thevry moment where it was flashed to tin Progressive convention that Hughes
had been nominated al the Coliseum as the standard bearer to the Republica- party Chairman Robins of the Pro
gressive convention was announcing that Col. Roosevelt had been unanlmoualy nominated as the Progressive lead,
er, the Convention went wild and there was no way to inform the delegates wuat hud transpired at the CollBeum.
For severa minutes Chairman Robins vainly rapped for order.
Five minutes had passed before order was restored and Jas. A. Garfield of Ohio asked for a recess to three p. m.
after singing one verse of "America."
"Ko. no," yelled the delegates but chairman Robins said the time asked for was necessary and finally the delegate
syielded and began to file out at 12:45 to return again at 3 p. m. Before this action wis taken Mr. Robin had mention
ed the necessity of nominating a vice president. "Johnson is the man" was the shout that came from the floor
showing that the desire of the party was almost unanimousy for their 1912 standard bearers.
Gov. Johnson declared after the recess that he and other leaders would communicate with Roo3evolt during
the recess and insist upon a definite statement immediately as to whether he would accept
?
Justice c.e.hughes
I
PROGRESSIVE SUGGESTIDN
Delegates Cheered When Lodge's Name
Was Mentioned But Only Mass
achusetts Arose
HUGHE!! URGED UPON THE PROGRESSIVES
(By Associated Press)
COLISEUM, CHICAGO. June 10.?
The Republican National convention
?was late getting down to businoss to
day, its conference committee having
been in session with conferees of the
Progressive convention during the
greater part of tne morning with re
curring rumors that some agreement
would be reached before either con
vention began balloting.
The weary delegates enthusiastic
at the prospect that this would be the
i laat day of the convention put in the
time discussing possibilities down at
the Auditorium and reading new8 bul
letins. The overnight switch ot some
of the favorite sons delegates filled
the Hughes men with exultation and
they came in early confident of nomi
nating their men on the first ballot
today, the third of the convention and
sure they would do it on the next bal
lot, the fourth. Some of them said
a fourth ballot would not bo neces
sary
While the convention was assem
bling, John McGrath, Colonel Roose
velt's secretary, arrived on the plat
form and talked with some of the lead
ers. Not many of them had arrived
and McGrath waited.
Chairman Harding said this, of Mc
Grath's visit:f "Wo aro going to get
together."
At the same time it became known
tthat all who voted for Fairbanks for
President had been released except
Jtfae Indiana delegatioii which would
cast one more ballot for their favpr
ite son.
The New York delegation conferr
ed^ the floor on the way In which
they should withdraw Root's name and
discussed their vice presidential pos
sibilities. It ig said the bulk of them
will go to Justice Hughes.
The Ohio delegation with one possi
ble exception will vote for Harding.
Chairman Harding let the gavel fall
and the convention was in order at
uiwm r-$s' *.<.? ? v
Dr. Levi concluded his prayer and
le chair recognized Senator Smoot
present the peace conference re
I port. 1
He announced the Progressive mem- j
bers of the peace committee had pre
sented to the Progressive convention
for consideration the name of Hughes,
j Cheers followed.
| Mr. Smoot! then read Colonel Roose
velt's letter to the Progrossivo con
| vention explaining that it had heen
brought to the Coliseum by McGrath
j since the peace conference met.
The reading was followed with the
closest attention. When Mr. Roose
velt's suggestion of Lodge as a com
promise candidate was reached there
was applauso but only Massachusetts
rose.
Inter-Society
Contest Tonight
Much intorcst is being manifest
ed in the annual Inter-Society contest
of the Fairmont State Normal school
between. the Lyceum and Mozart so
cieties this evening in the Normal au
ditorium at eight o'clock. Penants are
being placed in conspicuous places
this afternoon by both societies and
one of-the best contests ever held at
the Normal is expected.
The following program has been ar
ranged: Mozart?Willlab B. Holden,
jdebato; Miss Florence Wagnor, read
ier; L. H. McKinley, oratory. Lyceum
?Lloyd Furbee, debate; Miss'Oeral
dine, reader; George Hune, oratory.
The best number of the program will
I be the debate between Lloyd Fudbee
| for the Lyceum and William Holden
for the Mozart. The qustlon for do- j
bate is: Resolved, That Immigration
I should be abolished for ton years after !
the close of the war. Both sides say
they have good points on the debate. |
NO INFANTRY FIGHTING
PARIS, June 10.?Violent artillery
fighting was In progress on the Ver
dun front last night ,ln .the vlcllnlty
of Avocourt, Thlaumont aad the
Chapltro p.nd Fumin woods There
were no Infantry attack*.
delegates NAMED
FOR STATE MEETING
Woof Trirginia Business
Mfctrn Association to
. Meet Next Week.
President H. J. Ross and Acting
[Secretary Trevy Nutter of the West
Virginia Business Men's Association
I together -with six other delegates will
jjeave Fairmont for Parkersburg Mon
day to take part in the Seventh An
nual Convention of the association be
, ing held a the Chancellor Hotel thore
I on June 13.
| The delegates to go with PrcBident
,Rdss and Secretary Nutter are M. B.
Cobun, H. Ernest Hawkins, George H.
Brobst, Bert S. Leopold, H. J. Hartley
and J. L. Hall, president of the Fair
| mont association. They will leave on
(the four o'clock interurban car for
k Clarksburg Monday afternoon.
' Tho convention really opens at 8
o'clock Monday evening when the
State Executive Committee gathers.
But the assemblage of delgates at
the Convention Hall, Chancellor Hotel
will not take place until Tuesday
morning. Tho convention will be call
ed to order by President H. J. Robs of
Fairmont, at 10 o'clock a. m. Tuesday.
(Following the call to order the invo-j
cation by Rev. E. M. Moreland, of j
Parkersburg will follow Rev. More-j
land with an address of welcome. T. |
M. Hays of Huntington has been chos-j
?en to make the response.
After ijhe ret|ionse, tho appoint
ment of committees wil tako place. |
During the morning reports of the!
Legislative Committee, Credit System
Committee, Collections and Delin
quent Accounts Committee, Fake Ad
vertising and Donations committee (
and Short Weight and Measures com
mittee will be heard. It is expeceedj
?this will take up the time until lunch1
is. served for which the convention
will adjourn until two o'clock in the|
afternoon. i
Promptly at two the convention will J
again be called to order and all unfln- j
ished business of the morning will bej
transacted. Report of the committees'
on President's address election of of-,
fleers by the retiring president will
take up the greater part of the after-1
noon until four o'clock when the con
vention adjourns. At four o'clock
there will be a meting of the State
Association of Secretaries.
Principal Exercises of the
Lodge Will Be Held at
Woodlawn.
Showalter Tent No. 7 Knights of the
Maccabees, will hold memorial serv
ices tomorrow afternoon over the
graves of the deceased mombers of.
their lodge. Twenty-seven names ap
pear on the roster "In Memorium."
Some of these have been buried in
places remote from Marion county, in
far off cities and in states along the
Pacific. The graves of these departed
members will be decorated in spirit
by the living members who will also
decorato the graves of those buried la
the various cemetaries in Marlon
county.
At 1:30 o'clock tomorrow afternoon
all members who will Join in the deco
ration will meet at the K. O. T. M.
hall in the Knights of Pythias building.
Prom tm lodge rooms they will march
in a body to Woodlawn where fitting
ceremony will be observed.
Delegations will be sent to other
grave yards hereabouts with instruc
tions to perform the same ceremon>
over the grave of each de
ceased member. There will be no
band to lead tho marching Maccabees,
the whole afternoon to be spent in
comparative quietness, broken at
times to eulogize over the remains of
a departed Maccabed of the Fairmont
tent The list of deceased members
and the date of each one's death is
given below:
James W. Cordray, Aug. 25, 1894;
Fred L. Pitzer, Feb. 19. 1897; Thos.
Page, March 20. 1899; L. J. Randall,
Nov. 21 1900; Wm. B. Murrell. Jan. 8,
1901; Wm. McNeely, May 14. 1902;
Staats Nuzum, Feb. 16, 1904; Chas. J.
Tyler. July 1, 1904; Mathlas C. Brant,
July 16 1904; Chas. L. Barnes, April 3,
1906; Andrew B. Hill, Aug. 3,190G; Al
bert W. Sterling. June 3, 1908; J. Ru
fus Swearingen, June 30. 1908; Wal
ter C. Decker, Sept. 3, 1908; Wm. E.
Dawson. Feb. 16, 1909; Joseph F.
Cordray, March 27, 1910; Jas. W. Up
ton, April 16, 1910; T. T. Hoult. July
14 1910; G. W. Malthaner, Oct 12,
1911; Jno. B. Lough. Oct. 29. 1912; F.
W. Cunningham, Nov. 11, 1912; M. A.
Morris, Aug. 24, 1913; R. F. Sharp.
Dec. 26, 1913; E. A. Wilson, March 23.
1914; Devid Ridgley Oct. 3,1915; C. T.
Jeffery, Oct 27. 1915; Louis Kneisle,
Jan. 28, 1916.
Everybody's Voting so Get Them
to Cast a Few Votes for You
Everybody is voting for something
or somebody these days. Primaries,
national conventions,' etc, have inter
ested e>ery ono in the subject And
not the least of the voting now going
on is the heavy vote that 1b piling up
for the membefrs of the West Virgin
ian's 7,000 Club, through Which prizes
and cash awards amounting to more
than $3,200 will bo distributed free to
the public. -
Besides the OverlandMSlxH there are
a long string of attractive prizes to be.
distributed among those who stand
second, third, fourth* fifth, etc. And
the beauty of the 7.000 Club Is the fact
that everyone will receive either an
award oi a cash Balary. And the cash
salary is equal to the most generous
commisEion that is paid to the star
salesman of the big manufacturing
houses. 'No one can lose.
Don't get the idea that the people
who enter the club are going to be
called upon to work, work, work, all
the time to secure one of these awards.
In the first place you will find, that
the work of the 7,000 Club is different
from anything you over tried before.
The public does not think of you as
a solicitor or canvasser. You are a
/nAutlouod on Pace Four.)
RESULT OF BALLOTS
TIEN ON FRIDAY
Hughes Was Leading When
the Convention Adjourned
Last Evening.
CHICAGO, June 10.?-Justice Charles
iSvans Hughes was 165%. votes short
of enough to make him the Republi
can Presidental nomine when the
convention adjourned last night. Two
ballots were taken. Hughes had
253% on the first ballot and 328% on
the second. It takes 494 to nominate, i
Theodore Roosevelt had 65 on the
first ballot and 80 on the second. {
Weeks had 105 on the first and droppea!
to 79 on the second, favorite sons gen
erally fell off after the first ballot.
Two ballots having been taken the
Roosevelt forces moved for an ad?
journment until tomorrow and were
supported by the favorite sons. The
Hughes managers opposed It, but the
adjournment was carried decisively.
The motion was looked upon as a test
of strength and it was generally con*
ceded that if the Hughes people could
have prevented an adjournment, the
convention would have remained in
session all night or until a nomination
was made, with the probability in fa
vor of Hughes.
The ballots last night resulted as
follows:
First Ballot.
Hughes 253%
Root 103
Burton 77%
Weeks 105
Dupont 12
Sherman 66
Fairbanks 74%
Cummins 85
Roosevelt 65
LaFollette .. 25
Brumbaugh .' 29 .
Ford 32
Knox 36
Borah 2
Willis 4
McCall 1
Taft 14
Not voting 2%
Total 987
Second Ballot
Hughes 328%
Root 98%
Burton 76%
Weeks 79
Dupont 13
Sherman 65
Fairbanks 88%
Cummins 85
Roosevelt 80
LaFollette 25
McCall .. 1
Knox 36
Willis 1
Wood , 1
Harding 1
Wanamaker 5
Not voting 2
Total 987
No nomination.
On these two votes the West Virgin
Ian delegation decided as follows:
Burton 7 7
Weeks 5. 3
Dupont .......' 2
Fairbanks 1 1
Hughes 1 4
Root .... 1
Total, 16 16
> i-eOL. JHEOfiORE R005EVCLT
"? V r ? I ft i
_. (By Associated Press)
CHICAGU, June 10.?At nine this
morning George W. ? Perkins, Hiram
Johnson and other Progressive leaders
; were in close conference with'Chair
man Robins and there were rumors
ins on? the:*Progressive delegates that
a coupe of some kind was in prepara
tion the word having gone round to
U&tu tUem in their seats early-so thai
the convention could'meet sharply at
10:30 .' \ 11 ? .
tteorge W. Perkins left the confer
ence to go to meeting .of the Republl
can and Progressive conferees. All
the state chairmen remained in the
conference. -It was said no word had
yet comc^ from Col. .Roosevelt as to
whether he would accept .a ,Progre?
Blve nomination if the Repub'liciurcon
vention nominated Justice Hughes.
Chairman Perkins," wps Recognized
at 11:11 a/m. to report the action of
conference committee.. The decision
of the convention,\Mr. Perkins added,
was of .vital import, to?the V.countiy.
A long telegram received this morning
from Roosevelt..to.. the .progressive
conferees was then read-by-Secretar}
Davis who_said;ajJopy had been sent
to the Republican conferees'. "?
Col. Roosevelt recited how the Re
publican* have asked for. ? a second
choice selection, from the Progressive.
"For months I 'have thought of 'this
matter," Col. Roosevelt said, declaring
it was imperative' to' sink all minor
differences and reach a common
ground if possible. He recited the tel
egram sent .'to: former 'Senator Jack
son. This telegram reiterated the
"appeal" to*.the Progressive and Re
publican convention. -
"I ask you, members of the Progres
sive convention "to' make^those words
good by deeds*!" Col.": Roosevelt said.
Chairman Perkins was. greeted with
a demonstration of approval when he
said "I,may have don? well or.may
have done .poorly!,'tin ..the conference.
His statement that Col. Roosevelt
may.'?be actios well 'of'unw^aely was
received in -life
Governor Johnson did not come to
wmammmmkmamunmmmammrnmBam
the platform with other conferees. Hi
occupied a seat in the extreme reaf
or the hall with the Caltfoiiil*' del*
gallon. Whqri Mr. Perkins conclude^
by urging the convendoiijfto' abide by
Col. Roosevelt's request and defer ao ;
lion u/Ml the other convention passed
on the suggestion of Senator .Lodgd ;
us a compromise candidate the deie*
gates ac'nuiesed with shouts of. "that'i |
right, that right."
Capt.' iJohn M.. Parker bu.
leans addressed the convent!
half of those who' "had' t
bridges behind ttiem jaKS?
joined the Progressive * 'jjiij
years ago. He opened any I
tnlse thai, would sidetrack' Col. Roose*
velt. His every sentence Wis cheered
"This is a permanent party" shouted
Parker. Similar sentiments "were ex.
pressed by him at the statechairman
conference and he did not attend thf ;
morning peace conferees m eeting. H? j
bad been talked of for-the .vtce pre*
iuential nomination. 28
?'When the demonstration ?
Capt. Parker's address
the platform was formally adopted
without'roll call. Chairman Robin#
said the orders was tp .proceed wltli
nominations for president 'and j vie?
preiiuent
?Chairman O. Connell of New Yorfc
was recognized for a motldn to to*
pend thu: rules and proceed .with ncrat
inatldns. Hamlltn Pish, Jr? challenge^
O. Connel right to speak for a maJ<?
ity of the delegation. A poll was op
dered.
The Weather.
Weat Vlrginl*?Partly cloudy to.
night and Sunday probl
LOCAL WEATHER
