DAILY EVENING EDITION
DAILY EVENING EDITION
Fair tonight and ir..in waaaaer
.Sunday.
YrrTEHIAT' WATintR AA
Uulraua terapemtare. II aakea
muta, 41. rainfall, a wlad 'a art,
blowing briak.
TO ADVERTISERS.
Me last Orcfcalu ass the luiReet Seas
Mc uul guaranteed paid eirealttlua 1 ur
nar la Ortgua. aut f Partitae and I)
tar the largest clreaUtlaa la ieatlstea at
OrflOAL PAPER
COUNTY OfVKlAL PAFfB
i-i-r
jol. at
DAILY AT ORBGONIAN, PENDLETON, OREGON, SATURDAY, JUNE 10, 1916.
east pnows I0S
NO. 88
i3fjomi uoS,
Hughes and Fairbanks Nominated
Republicans Make Selection Unanimous
ALL EFFORTS TO
END STRIFE ARE
WITHOUT RESULT
Pwce Conference Between Republi
cans and Progressives Conre to
Close Without Either Side Gain
ing Point.
OtflCAtiO. June 10. Perkins re
setted to the progressive convention
Ifce raauli of peace OOnfOfOnOi h.i fol-
'We met the republican conferees
a a remained in conference hist night
.am 1 o'clock. We were again ask
ad to state u second choice candidate
far arcsldent. We maintained the
utaatlou that te had presented our
oaadidatc and thc had not We ad-
-.; our arguments. The repub
lican conferees returned and lalnd
what we thoiiKhl of Hughes. We re
idead by asking If each desired to sign
abatement endorsing Hughes. They
H II Id no. Then wc adjourned to
aaet again thla mornlnx. When we
-akared the conference, they said the
ha4 all agreed on Hughes We took
M into consideration and put It
i the chairman. We decided to
ant their communication In this
nwavention. The question of second
on our part was deeply dls-
We laid the whole matter be-
, KooacTell last night and the col-
Bent a telegram."
eoaeveU'e telegram said "I under-
ou have a last conference to-
wlth the republicans, but your
eaalttte has not settled upon a sec
aa ahulce. For months I've thought
W this matter and tried to find a
aaaimon standing ground. Cant we
Tergal past differences and find a
uoaauion ground to express our Am--aiaanlsin
' 1 appreciate your loyal
ty to me and realize that this loyalty
a loyalty to principles for which we
bath atand. In view of the existing
oadllions I suggest the name of Henr)
'nfcot Lodge of Massachusetts. He's
a man of highest Integrity and broad
est aatlonul spirit and has a close
knowledge of naval affairs. He un
daswtands and supported prepared
aeaa, the upbuilding of the naw anl
araiy and the protection of the Pan,
ail canal He stood for progressive
legislation like the pure food law, the
labor bureau and other laws. If you
Hh me. lav this telegram be-
both conventions. It me again
.. j. my telegram of Thursday."
Mm here repeated part of the Jack-
telegram on nationalism.
"I believe the nomination of Lodge
w meet the vital needs of the nn
atna. I ask you to do what you can
a hrlng about hla nomination. In the
aaau of common Americanism."
Natatorium to be
Open Tomorrow to
All Who Will Go
UaTKRA OF OOLD PMJNGB WIUL
II A V 10 OPPORTUNITY WO
TAJtB ONH SUNDAY.
n-r-r-r!
fwe natatorium la going to be op
ened tomorrow for those who care
to take a cool plunge. Though the
weather so far ha not creatod any
great demand for a refuge from the
heat, there have been a number of
the younger "waterdogs." howling Tor
the opening of the pool and the coun
cil committee has decided to try them
Met
The pool will be filled tonight anil
emorrow afternoon at 2 o'clock the
gates will be thrown open to whom
soever wants to swim. Home member
ef the committee will be In charge
WHEAT MA1UU7I.
(Men Who Will Lead the G.O.P. 1
. -
- ;;;
I I
aaal
Charles Evan Hughes
MataaMaaBBtBH
J
r mm,
amCAGO, June 1 Range of prl
m today as follow:
Open. High. Cloee.
May 11.0714 110714 H.OA
Jaly ....11.08 V. 11.081, HOSVa
PORTLAND, Ore.. June 10 CIub
16 bid, 92 naked; blueatem, 98 bid.
I asked.
CHARLES W. IAJRBAHKS
Extra
T
TO?
ACCEPT THE
NOMINATION
MIICAGO, Jl"NK 10. IT WAS
XWOl NCKIl HJBRX3 THIS AFT
mUKXMI THAT ROOSEVEtr
II As REI'USFJ) TO ACCEPT
THE PROGRESSIVE NOMINA
TION". "AT THIS TIME."
RESIGNATION ACCEPTED.
WASHINGTON. June 10. At
4:10 o'clock tills afternoon Presi
dent Wllmn aoreptcd the resig
nation of Justice Hue-lie from
the supreme bench.
INDIAN AI"OLIS, June 10.
Falrbankx had not decided this
afternoon whether to accept the
republican vice-presidential nom
ination. He may make a state
ment tomorrow.
WASHINGTON. June 10.
Hushes tclfgTaphcd Harding this
(iftcrnoon his acceptance of the
nomination, endorsing the repub
lican platform and announcing
that he stands for preparedness.
He criticised the WiLxon administration.
America Urged to AcU
LONDON. June 10. The Dally
Graphic, discussing the alleged hard
ships of British prisoners in Cermany
suggests that the prisoners of all the
belligerent nations be transferred to
neutral countries and be paid for the
respective governments.
The Graphic urges the United States
to take up the matter to the extent
of making a special appeal to the
German government to agree to such
:;n arrangement.
The world's normal yield of the six
great cereals ranges from 16,000,000,-
000 to 119,000,000,000 bushels.
blended with perceptible vapors and
the diffused light Is mixed with a
large proportion of white.
Hughes Resigns From Supreme Court
Bench and Wires Acceptance of Nomi
nation; Roosevelt is Choice of Progress
ives; Hughes in Brief Statement Comes
Out For Preparedness; Criticises Wilson
Administration; Efforts to Find Compro
mise Candidate End in Failure.
East Oregonian is
First to Flash the
Mews of Convention
laidETl.N.S POSTED AS SOON AS
MESSAGE IS RECEIVED AT
NEWS ROOM.
News of the presidential nomina
tions made in Chicago this morning
was received with varying degrees ol
satisfaction and disappointment by
Pendleton people.
The republican leaders are highly
pleased at the nomination of Hughes
as the standard bearer of their party
though they do not like the prospects
of Roosevelt leading a third party
again. They declare that the only
chance that the colonel will hare of
ever aagaia securing' republican rec
ognition Is for him to refuse the pro
gressive nomination and fall In Une
for Hughes. The choice of Fair
banks as Hughes' running mate Is not
very pleasant to local republican
"They could hare picked a better rote
better,'' la the concensus of opinion-
Roosevelt admirers In this city are
not entirely pleased with the situa
tion. His most ardent local followers
are still for him, republican, progres
sive or nothing, but some of those who
were for him strong if he could get
a united support are inclined to stand
by the party choice.
As for the democratic warhorses,
they are smiling a smile of confidence.
With Hughes and
the running they
FIRST BALLOT (Unofficial)
Hughes, 253 Vi; Weeks, 105; Root, 103; Cummins, 85;
Burton, 77 Vi ; Fairbanks, 74! 2; Sherman, 66; Roosevelt,
65; Knox, 36; Ford, 32; La Follette, 25; Brumbaugh, 29;
DuPont 12; Willis, 4; Borah, 2; Taft 14; McCaU 1.. Ab
sent, 1 1 2 ; not voting, 1 .
SECOND BALLOT
Hughes, 328V2; Weeks, 79; Fairbanks, 88; Root, 98;
Roosevelt, 80; Burton, 76 Vi ; Sherman, 65; La Follette, 25;
Knox, 37; Du Pont, 13; Cummins, 85; Willis, McCaN,
Wood, Harding, 1 each; Wana maker, 5; not voting, 2.
THIRD BALLOT
Hughes, 949 V2; Roosevelt, l8Va; Weeks, 3; La Follette,
3, Du Pont, 5; Lodge, 7; absent 1.
CHICAGO, June 10,
unanimous.
BULLETINS
-The nominatdo of Hughes
is
iade
CHICAGO, June 10. Weeks, Burton, Du Pont and Cum
mins withdrew on the third rollcall in favor of Hughes.
CHICAGO, June 10. The progressives nominated Roosevelt
unanimously.
WASHINGTON,
court.
Juna 1. Hughes formally resUraed from the
CHICAGO, June 1. The republican convention aAfcmrned at .t p.
Chairman Harding announced that Hughes had accepted the nnmlnaUew.
COMSFTM. Chicago, Juno 10. Oiarle V. Hughe was rnoara the rramn
llcan standard-bearer of the republicans this afternoon on the third ballot.
Vote 949' , out of a possible 987 ballots. Ronsnrit. his nrauvet competitor,
polled only eighteen and a half. Soon after vmrri the ennvratlon ehnan PmJr.
Roosevelt both in as . Tlre presidential nominee.
declare Wilson's; niinnu tras the first int i,. uiiir,. i..- -..;. i , ., .
Hugh
.o-w.y m ouo. now.., otbers elambercd aboard the bandwagon in a regular scramble as soon as
they assert strongly that Wilson could tnc convention met. The selctlon of Hughes me after Roosevelt had made
defeat either one or both. iutit hollr MUmpt , nrtng Uxlge as a compromise candidate of the pro-
The first news of the nomination of presslves and republicans.
Brushes and Roosevelt was received AftoP the nproar roOowlnC the nomination had subsided. Alexander Moon)
in a flash to the East Oregon.an this of Pennsylvania moved to make the nomination unamlmous. It was carried
morning within a few momenta after Sherman. Week Fairbanks, linrton. Cimmin, itr..mh...-k ...h
acceaetrely withdrew In favor of Hughe. Stevenson of Colorado, annoanced
that all the Roosevelt deltgatcs were released from their obligation t vote
for the colonel.
Harding telegraphed Hughes as follows: "With deliberation and rathaal-a-m
and under nnnmancc which could not hare been more compliment
ary and with an unanimity never expected, you hare been nominated by the
lepnhttcans as candidate for president of the I'nlted States. Voicing the sen
tlment of the convention over which 1 presided. I congratulate you aad the
country usn the outcome of the convention. "
Wanamaker of Philadelphia, nominated Fairbanks; Baldridce of Nebraska,
nominated Klrncr Uurkett. These were tlie only viee-presidential a o ml ac
tions. Tlie official vote was: lairlmnks 8(13. Uurkett 108. Rorah 8. .loliasoa 1.
Burton I, ebstcr 2. The nomination of Fairbanks thereafter
unanimous.
The convention adjourned at 2:01 p. m. ITardiag announced
Hughes, accepting the nomination was coming.
It was perfectly anparent soon after convening that the republics
ixis.ti to run their own steamroller over Roosevelt's aspirations.
Itrief but roof-raising applause followed the announcement of the result
of the third ballot. California and Oregon led a parade with banners.
Massachusetts gave 32 of the M rotes for Hughes. Governor Mi-tWl ex
plained mat aiiniHign tne aelegates npprceintcd the fitness of Nslte aeter-
hele.s tliey felt that the spirit of the convention was for Hughes. Wills of
lllil.t i.iii -11 rn.l ullhilraiHo. ',...,..' -
........ .............. ......... tw ItlllKrn 1 II.MIIT-.
After Wanamaker nominated I'airlinnks. KentuekT. Maine and Okie -ended
It. Ilalloting startctl quickly alter Uurkett was nominated
The Oregon delegates spRl, oting as follows: Fairbanks 7. Rorah I. Web
ster 2. These were the only wuos that Welisxer reeeintl. Waahlngtofl nrd
! solidly for I'alrlionks.
the counting of the ballots. A bulle
tin was posted at once at the Welch
cis-ar store and soon the whole town
new of the choice of the two parties.
PARKER IS NAMED VICE
PRESIDENT BY PROGRESSIVES
CHICAGO, June 10. John M.
Parker of Ioulslana was nomi
nated vice president by accla
mation at the progressive convention.
a reply Orom
es Shows He Has a Smile
When Informed That He hast
Been Chosen By Republicans
Charles E. Hughes and Charles W.
Fairbanks Who Will Be the Standard
Bearers for the G. O. P.
WASHINGTON, June 10. Wash
ington realized for the first time to.
day that Hughes has a real smile.
When Informed of his nomination he
seemed to discard his judicial bear
ins: without losing a whit of his dig
nity. He beamed at the reporters and
c ailed them ' You boys" as he shook
hands cordially. He admitted he "had
not seen as much of the newspaper
bot as he wanted to since coming to
Washington."
Immediately after the result was
known, Hughes shut himself in his
sunly with his secretary. Lawrence
I'.reen. to dictate a reply to Harding's
notification telegram. Hughes dis
patched the following message:
"To the President: I hereby resign
the office of associate ejustlce of the
Mipreme court of the United States.
RospoettUllyi Charles Kvan Hughes"
The following reply went to Hard
ing: "Chairman and delegates: "1 have
not desired the nomination 1 have
wished to Remain on the bench. But
In this critical period of national his
tory. 1 realize your right to summon
and my paramount duty is to respond.
Vou speak at a time of national exi
gency, transcending merely partisan
c nsidcration. Your voice is a de
mand for dominant and thonuighgo
ing Americanism, with firm protec
tive upbuilding policies, essential
peace and security. To that call in
this crisis, I cannot fail to answer with
I pledge of all that Is In me to the
services of our country. Therefore 1
accept the nomination. I stand for a
firm and unflinching maintenance of
aU American citizens on land and sen.
1 neither Impugn the motives nor un
derestimate the difficulties, but it is
most regrettably true that our for-
jeign relations have suffered incalcu
lable from the vacillating course re
garding Mexico."
He fully endorsed the republican
platform. He advocated prepared
ness and severely criticized the Wil
son administration.
CHICAGO, .lune (0. The rouhllcan national committer win meet Mon
dav to elect n chairman to i-onduct Hughes' -ampalii. Tticre Is strong:
feeling that llllli-s will ho reelected, but it Is hellevnl that Hltehis..-k could
land the post of he launih.il a fight. Hitchcock said lie was not a csjidldaie.
Progressives Nominate T. R.
M IHTORll'M. Chlen-o. .lune 10. K.s s, rclt was nominated as prrrw.
slve candidate for president hv acclamation .it 12 33 o'clock, two inlaiilea
afier the republicans nominated Hnghea,
The nomination came in the facv of the colonel' own rei iminendatlon that
the progressive and republicans, unite on lsl-.i I'.cdbun broke bsise when
ttio chairman susoend.tl the ri:les. .cd for tlie nomination and aniioanml
I he resotl .ill within a minute.
luiiuhrldgv Colby of New York, made the nominating sis-b and JkfeV
son seconded it. Anxious to nominate ItnnajHlH before the n-siMlcans nomi
nated lluirhe, Johnson ami Colby urged IniMe. Thev jix-kci.tl about waiting
for word from the rcpithUcnns. Tlie Hull Mo.io wen aide to finish ilsl
nomination until two minute arter NaufcN was Okaeaa at the Collsrm
The M-niv lonfcronivs came to naught, although the com miller conferred
until earlv this mornlns and met again l-fore the convention (omened. The
republicans -.uggi-sled llughea and the pnnrresMlie dishlcd u lar hla naiue
before their couicntiou. hut It was too late to effeel a oomirinil'
I linmediutclv aft4-r Roosevelt's nomination. Johnson U'k-honed Win. argiafl
him Ui make a -tat. -mem accepting the progressive aooilnaUoa.
