INDEPENDENT
NONPARTISAN
rS9F
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, JUNE 10, 1916
Vol. IV. No. 8
One Dollar a, Year
Hon. Thomas M. Gregory Nominated for
County Prosecutor by the Democratic Party
Gregory is a Friend of Organized Labor, One of the Creators of the Workmen's Compen
sation and Mothers' Pension Acts. A Clean, Honest and Fair Young Man, and Should
Receive the Support of Every Union Man in Hamilton County.
Last Saturday the Democratic party
nominated its county ticket, but the one
office that union labor is more interested
in than any other, is that of county
prosecutor, and the Democrats have
nominated ex-Senator Thomas M, Gre
gory a joung man of marked ability
and inllucncc and one whose impress
was felt upon all important legislation
during the session of ll)J:t.
lie supported all legislation for the
benefit of Labor and was one of the
hard workers in the interests of the
workmen's compensation and the mo
ther's pension act.
Mr. Gregory is quiet and unobtrusive
in manner he is studious and indus
trious. In the legislature he was chair
man of the Committee on Municipal Af
fairs, also chairman of the Committee
on Constitution, Initiative and Referen
dum, and a member of the following
committees : Federal Relations, Finance,
Judiciary, Privilege and Election, Pub
lic Utilities, Rules and Taxation, where
he acquitted himself with great credit.
In the selection of Mr. Gregory, the
Democrats have given organized labor
an excellent candidate, being a man of
nign, prjncipie.anu,.iiQnor au,(Utlierejii.
'W!iieslioTtnlfa,tej MRfiviraecl riu7t"nT-
will give Union Labor a fair deal. It
is therefore the duty of every man who
carries a card and wants to sec Union
Labor preserved in Hamilton County,
whether he be Democrat or Republican,
to start right now and work for the
election of the Honorable Thomas M.
Gregory.
Following is the regular Democratic
ticket :
For Congress (First District) E. II.
Brink. - ,.
For Congress (Second District)
Stanley E. Bow die.
County Coroner Dr. E. II. Nelson.
County Auditor 1. X, Price.
Judge of Common Pleas Court Win.
Fox.
County Clerk Theodore A. Frcy.
Sheriff W. Stanley Bray.
Treasurer William A. Hopkins.
Recorder Charles Dcgenhart.
Surveyor Charles J. llosbrook.
County Commissioner Sherman Ap
plegate, Walter M. Comer, John B.
Mcibcrs.
Mate Senate 1 1. 1 1. Friedman, Thom
as J. O'Xcill, Allen C. Roudebush.
Member of Legislature A. 1. Murdock,
Joseph L. Ilollowcll, Robert E. Crowe,
L. R. 1 licks, Frederick J Wcndcln, Gro
ver C. Maxwell, George Ast, John C.
Rogers, Hiram A. Decamp and John II.
Carson.
PllKMIU.MS MICAXS I'KOKITS.
New York Wage increases by the
Western Union Telegraph Company have
served to call attention to the vast earn
ings of this corporation and its decreased
operating expenses, due to a premium
system. The last financial report of
Western Union shows total earnings in
lii 13 were $52,'I50,282 ; operating ex
penses, $I0,8(2,.'!17; net revenues, $11,
.j.Vl.Udy. The 101II report shows total earnings
were $4i,!)!),2f7 ; operating expenses,
.$42,:t27.121; net revenues, $4,583,1-10.
This means that in two years the busi
ness of the company increased neaily
.$5,4(1(1,000 and the operating expenses
were reduced $1..-24.S04.
In the liil.'i report President Carlton
expressed satisfaction over these figures,
which are the result of a premium sys
tem he terms "refinements in organiza
tion." This official and General Manager
Brooks testified before the recent com
mission on industrial relations that
telegraphers were underpaid. The lat
ter acknowledged that this condition
constitutes a "grave economic injustice."
In its report the commission said bJth
Western Union and Postal telegraphers
were not onlj underpaid, but that they
were subjected to manj abuses, including
the establishment of arbitrary speed
rates.
mmfBLBb&BmMS uiphjp JWPJwa.JLiJ
Democratic Candidate for County Prosecutor
One of the creators of the Workmen's Compensation Act. Fair to union labor An able Lawjer, and a gentleman with
too much' honor and principle to frame-up on anyone.
IIUM.1X Vli:V l'OIXT XKCKSiSAItV
Richmond, Va. In u sermon on the
labor question, Rev. Frank Pratt of this
city said :
"The labor question cannot be ade
quately studied except from a human
point of view. The stud of books and
the hearing of lectures are important,
but they should be supplemented by the
human touch with the laborer himself.
Unfortunately, the question has often
been studied merely from the theoretical
point of view. Students talk about 'the
labor market' and efficiency experts
write upon greater production, as if men
and women operatives were commodities
or mere machines. The better under
standing of the whole problem only
comes with the human touch as one is
brought into personal contact with la
boring people themselves."
BHw &f&MMMMMM $
K'iiHuUi .. w .. ... A&idzjg&ttfzr?:-'.
& -. Xv
V
HON. THOS. M. GREGORY
UXIQUK COMI'IOXSATIOX AWAltl).
Williamsport, Pa. Referee Champion
of the state compensation board has
ruled that a child, ct unborn, is entitled
to compensation benefits. The award
will begin at the birth of the child and
continue until it is hi years of age.
The father of the unborn child was
killed January 18 on the dock on the
Williamsport Coal Company. At the
time of his death he was receiving a
weekly wage of $18.70. Referee Cham
pion rules that from the birth of the
child and until '100 weeks afterward, the
widow and child are to receive $8.11, or
15 per cent of the dead father's wages.
At the end of the .'100th week, the child
itself is to receive $2.80 a week, or 15
per cent of its father's wages, until it
becomes 10 jears old.
The referee look the position that the
child is legall in being and entitled to
consideration the same as a born child.
I'KXSIOX THKOItV IMVOItKl).
Washington By a vote of 177 to 112
the House of Representatives has re
fused to permit the question of pensions,
retirement or annuities for civil service
emplojecs to be "buried" in what the
believe a hostile committee.
Recently the friends of this legislation
were caught napping at a time when few
members were in attendance and a mo
tion to refer two bills to the committee
on reform in the civil service carried.
The committee on the post office and
post roads presented a resolution to dis
charge the civil service committee from
further consideration of the Tague and
Griffin retirement bills. The resolution
was adopted, and the vote, 177 to 112, it
is declared, to be indication that the ma
jority of congressmen are favorable to
some sort of legislation on this subject.
MUTH IS SURPRISED BY
MYSTERIOUS STRIKE OF
BAKERY EMPLOYEES
Bakers and ovenmen employed at the
plant of the Muth Baking Companj went
on a strike.
Three-fifths of the employees are re
ported to have failed to report for dut,
and the night superintendent said he
would not be able to make half his de
liveries. A. E. Muth returned home from an
Eastern business trip and was surprised
to learn that there was dissatisfaction
among the employees at the companj 's
plant.
"Upon nn arrival I learned that the
men had failed to report for dutj." said
Mr. Muth. "There has been no com
plaint, as far as I know, and no de
mands have been made by the men. I
will meet the men and expect to settle
the matter satisfactorily. The superin
tendent reported to me that the men were
not on hand to work off the several hun
dred barrels of flour allotted for the
night's consumntion. and that's all I
ikmm'bmirh.'V'1! ?--'!''' '-'
"If the men are dissatisfied I will meet
them half way."
Mr. Muth said his information was
that practical! all of the employees re
mained awa from the plant.
WON'T RECOGNIZE UNION
Packing: House Owners Deride To
Deal Witli Individuals Only.
"The nine packing houes involved in
the strike of Cincinnati butcher work
men this afternoon decided to deal with
their cmplojecs as individuals, but to
have no dealings with am organiza
tion,' said Leo J. Blum, superintendent
and general manatier of the Butchers'
Packing Companv, last night.
"Not any of the firms affected will ar
bitrate demands made in proposed agree
ments," said Mr. Blum. "It va de
cided not to hold an more meetings. We
are getting from outside cities more
meat than we can use."
Michael Schuld, Business Agent for
the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and
Butcher Workmen. Local No. 22. said
earl esterday two concerns showed a
willingness to arbitrate the demands of
the men. Schuld said seven more men
joined the ranks of the strikers ester
dav. IMKLKV
Adjourned Till Monday To (Jive
Kailfiad Managers Time To For
mulate Answers To Questions
Propounded Ity Men.
- -,
New York. The conference of rep
resentatives of the railroad managers
of the countrj and of their employees
over a new wage scale adjourned until
Monday, to give the railroad managers
time to formulate answers to problems
raised h the emplojces.
These have to do with schedules of
wage and overtime pa, based on the
counter proposition of the railroads de
manding that certain principles be ob
served in methods of paing wages.
It is expected the railroads will come
forward Monday with compromise
schedules. Officialh the employes are
opposed to a compromise, but railroad
heads are confident that a middle
ground will be reached and a strike
averted.
OUM.S PUT OXIO OVHK.
There was a strike of 100 girls at the
plant of the San Telino Cigar Companj,
Third and Vine streets reccntlj, which
lasted for less than half an hour. Ac
cording to the girls, Otto Blank, fore
man of the plant, was dismissed and a
new man hired in his place. The girls
imniediatel notified the officials of the
companj that the) would refuse t" work
unless "Blank was re-engaged Blank
was re-engaged
1
