WIRE- YOUR SENATOR TODAY !
CScction seven of the postal appropriation bill a passed by the House would deal a deadly blow
to a free press bv civine autocratic power to the Postmaster General by which he could exclude
from mails and consign to freight routes such publications as he might arbitrarily designate.
From this decision there would be no appeal, this legislation would further Rome's persistent
effort to foster postal bureaucracy. TclegTanh your senator today to vote to kill section seven of
the postal appropriation bill. (For particulars sec page 4.)
ft
Number 268
imma 10. ltl V
3
IBEHHNACE
Ana-era, mimmn ""
OREGON PATR10TSJRIUMPH OVER ROME
Press Censorship, the Roman Catholic Boycott and Political Solidarity in
the Interest of the Papal Theory Again Rebuked by Red Blooded
Americans at the Polls The Spirit of 1776 in Evidence in
Portland,
m
(AIX the aona of democrarv
taken up the guage of
buttle thrown down by the
uhjecta of the pope when
tlic hierarchy entered the cam-
f'ign to auhstitule the p. pa!
ur the democratic rystcui of
government in it effort to make
America dotninaiitly Roman t'uth
olic, by the historic. Roman Catholic
ptclhad, lactic and practice.
Again have the true patriot and
upholder of our free institution
splendidly shown their loyalty to
tin- basic principles of our free dc
liHHraiv. On Slay 10th, the voters of Port
land. Oregon, nominated at the pri
maries trenty-teren candidate out
of thirtythrre who hart received the
endorsement of a special committee
appointed by the patriot forces of
Portland, to rigidly scrutinize Hie
list of candidates.
The Wild Wall of the Orefonian
The result abounded the aubscr
vint prcs and the machine poli
tician. The Portland Oregonian,
figuratively si-raking, pnt on ack
tldth and ashes, and its wild lamen
tations, which doubtle voiced the
feelings of Art-hhishop t'hristie
and his litical knight, remind
u of tlie di-nnolatc Hebrew cap
live in llabvlon, who hung their
harp upon the willows.
Heretofore the Republican mn
cliine and the Oregonian have oc
cupied "the seats of the mighty,"
while in the dim background ttood
the hicnirchv and "its props," its
Knights and Ancients, its feder
ated organization, and its Jesuits,
approvingly watching the political
machinations of both the great
ltrtir guided by unseen hand.
and which so well accorded with the
papal campaign to make America
domimintly Roman Catholic,
Daya of Roman Rale Threatened
Heretofore when through shrewd
manipulation, the Knights of
Columbus, had secured the nomina
tion of a faithful son of the Human
church to office, nil that remained
in order to effect his election was a
word t the faithful mcmliers of
the secret oath lound Roman Cath
olic societies and a further notifi
cation to the laity in the local Ro
man paper, which reached the rank
nnd file of Roman Catholics but
which wns rarely ever seen by the
I'rotestants. But alas! those happy
days when the papal hyphens alio
oned and houed their prut al
legiance In the pop?, found it easy
to ride into political power are
passing.
tad Case of a Bon of the Church
The very qualifications that so
long A the Roman Catholic polit
ical machine remained vnmaAed,
were the title deed to oil ice, nor
that democracy in awakening, are
serious handicaps to suceecs. A
very typical example illustrating
this fact was seen iu the ca.-e of
AiuIt Weiidierger, the present -on-stahie
of Portland who failed to
secure renomination. Andy was a
typical Roman Catholie office seek
er who eould not well fail to suc
ceed under the old regime when
Rome vote was solid for her sons,
while patriot voted unintelligently.
He was educated in the parochial
schools and was prominent in the
work of the Roman Catholic church.
lie was a Knight of Columbus, and
though he does not rejoice in a
name that is redolent of the "dear
auld sod," Mr. Weinberger is an
active member of the .4rt Order
of Hibernian. We know all these
things must be true, since they are
prominent features of laudatory
sketch of Afr. Weinberger which
accompanied his picture that ap
peared in a prominent place in the
lloman Cathotic Sentinel of Tort
land, just before the recent election.
In the good old days before the
vncorering of the plotting and the
planning of the hierarchy through
tts "Knight." it 'Ancients." and
its "Jesuits," Andy was able to read
his title clear, to office by having hi
papal qualifications so wisely set
forth as to insure the Roman Cath
olic vote. And now to find these
Terr qualifications so unsatisfactory
to patriotic Americans 'who believe
in the "HltU rod school imm," that
tkey ehooae a patriot in hit stead,
must be wormwood and grw.lL trot
Oregon The Story of
only to the faithful ton cf Rome.
but to bi fellow members of swret
oath found politico-religious so
cieties which have Uvn recently
happily tinned by a Masaihusctt
Romanist politician as "the prop
of the hierarchy."
Of course, tiie support of Andy
by the sccn-l papal i-Mietic and
the laity who mitcm circumstantial
ly informed by the Catholic pajer
of hi fealty to Home and her pa
rochial school, waa perfectly right
and proper and not an attempt to
bring the religious qtn-stion into
olities or secure a solid rote which
would tend to arou.e religion
prejudice or bigotry, thi seem to
le taken for granted not only by
the Roman Catholic political ma
chine, but by it handymen in the
censored pre, while on the other
hand, when the upholders of the
fundamental democracy of our con
stitution the democracy of Jeffer
son, Washington and Lincoln, imi
tate Rome by uniting and match
ing the Protestant vote against the
solid Roman vote that for year ha
been in evidence all over the land,
a wild uail is raised by the subject
of the pope, and their apologists,
because Protectant and democrats
dare to unite to uphold our magnifi
cent non-sectarian school system
and the constitutional guarantee
of absolute freedom of scoch, pre,
religious discussion and assembly.
.1 that the patriot hare done
in St. Louis, Kansa City, St. Paul.
Portland and elsewhere, of late,
has Urn to take a leaf out of THK
ROMAN' CATHOLIC ROOK OF
POLITICAL TACTICS, nnd imi
tate jiolitical Romanism by uniting
af the poll. They have not stootxil
to employ the un-American desjNitie
and contemptible weaNn of boycott,
and they have not violated the
spirit of our federal constitution by
seeking a censorship over the pre.
What they have done, aii'l all
that thev have done is to make a
united stand for the election of men
jdedged to suport the basic priu-i
ciplea of our great Protestant lib-'
i . i
erai tiemot racy in the present war
which Rome i waging in govern
ment nnd out of it, against free
press, free seoch, free assembly
and free schools, against her at
tempt to substitute mounrchial
bureaucratic power over the pre
instead of democratic trial by jury,
and against her determined at
tempt to siure public appropria
tions for sectarian institution in
open violation of the spirit of our
constitution that provides for ab
solute divorce Mwoen church and
state, necessarily implying equal
rights to all faiths and special priv
ilege to none.
All that the patriots seek to do,
or have sought to do is to protect
imperiled democracy from the jolit
ical aggressions of the Roman
Catholie hierarchy. TIIKV HAVK
NOT 1N.1KCTKD RKLKJION
INTO POLITICS RUT ARK
SIMPLY STRIVING TO tiKT
SKCTARIAN RKLIt.Io.V OCT
OF POLITICS and prevent the
aggressive attempt of ditico-e-clesiastical
Romanism to substitute
the" papal monarchial system of
government for our free democracy.
Before the Battle
While it is probable that the
archbishop and the most astute of
the Knights ami the Jesuits may
have sensed the disturbed condition
in the atmosphere and the keenest
watchers may have discerned a
cloud the size of a man's hand ris
ing on the political horizon, the
Oregonian and the rank and file of
"Knights" and "Ancients" were in
as blissful ignorance of the rising
tide of lofty patriotism in Oregon,
as was King George III, blind to
the temper of tlie colonists at the
time of the Boston Tea Party.
Oregonian and Harerhill Riot
Some weeks ago something hap
pened in Massachusetts which got
beyond the power of the well trained
papal censors in Boston and New
England.
The Roman Catholic Knights of
Columbus and other "props of the
hierarchy in Cardinal O'Connell's
archdiocese, relying on the past suc
cess of the papal censorship over the
dailj press in suppressing for the
most part, all news reports of the
the Victory
many evhibitions of criminal law
IcMne. tnohocracy, and murderous
assault by Knights of Columbus and
other Roman Catholic in the de
termined attempt of olitical Ro
manism to destroy our constitution
al right to frivibnn of rvliztou dis-
U"ion and asM-mbly, determined
oine and for all time. t nidi in
Massachusetts freedom of discus
sion on such question a public and
pans bin I school, and the projsised
institutional amendment to pro
hibit the appropriation of public
funds to sti tariaii institutions when
such discussion was in opposition
to Rome's desires or when the
spcLkcr tc obnoxious to the
hierarchy.
In furtherance of this campaign
against the organic law of our land.
oitial Romanism gave the moM
shameful exhibition of criminal
lawlessness and tnoliocracy that ha
stained the fair name of Massachu
setts sime the republic was founded.
The outrage was so giant-like,
and so utterly inexcusable, so nak
edly criminal and treasonable in
character, so suhverive and de
structive of law and order in its
effect that the Ilton pre. bad t
give the fact; bad to play them tip
a an aroused public demanded, but
beyond Massachusetts and especial
ly New Kuglaud, the Roman Cath
olie tensors were very successful in
minimizing the criminal outrage.
trhile poiMit editor fought to jutti
fit the crime in the way motion hy
and the pajxicy crrr errk to justify
irtmr again! the freedom vhuli
diumrnicu fouler and protect.
The Portland Oreqnn'an had an
editorial that must have met with
the heartv approval of Archbishop
Christie anl hi Knight, something
I which in turu must have been a
'source tif gratification to the Ore-
gntiian since its desire to meet with
the approval of the prelate ha been
n subject of much simulation
among the thousand of intelligent
citizens of Portland who are such
"bigots." that they actually dare to
defend the fundamental democracy
of .leffersoii and the Revolutionary
miner, mo const it ution i the
.I'nited Slates, and "the little red
school house."
Here is an extract from a letter
written us by a well known business
man of Portland, which Iwars upon
this point :
After the Iste attempt in Msss
Srlmsflt to moh our atrtotic apntknr,
Mr. Lrvdrn, an eHrtoriiil appeared ia
our Iramni; pnier, the OrtgonMx, con
1ninf the artinn of the apal muh anl
rrfrrrini? to Mr. Ivilrn aa a "ninunte
Imhir." 1 wrntr a lrief ansirrr to thi
nlitorial nn.l iwnt it to ths Oregnnian,
but the eilitor refused tn pulilish mv re
ply. ibiiff fy krlplrt re rmiM
be all orrr Ihe I nitrd State if Tlie
M:na k ten niimrd.
Menace Defeats R. C. Censorship
The daily press had so bowed to
the Roman Catholic political ma-
Save
WHAT TO DO
To prevent this DEMOCRACY becoming an AUTOCRACY every
lover of liberty
MUST VOTE SOLIDLY
et the primaries on the 19th of Mav, 1916, for FREE SPEECn, FREE
SCHOOLS and FREE PRESS.
To preserve these monuments of human progress iyou must forget
party polities and
VOTE SO THAT NO FORZION POTENTATE SHALL EVEB RULE
THIS NATION 1
HOW TO DO IT.
An executive committee of local confederated patriotic societies
is now searching the records of every candidate for public office and
will shortly issue a printed list of candidates
OWING NO ALLEGIANCE TO ANY FOREIGN POWER
and who are pledged to maintain under any and all circumstances
DEMOCRACY against AUTOCRACY.
Tbia means they will stand for FREE FPEECH, FREE
SCHOOLS and FREE PRESS. , -
PATRIOTS
WHAT TO DO
WATCH FOR AND VOTE THIS TICKET I
VOTE NO OTHER AND VICTORY IS OURS! f.
ra, s, en
rhiae that tlie por'' of Ongrm had
no adequate know.'; e,f tla lat
est papal crime, ti l Tiir MrAtr.
organ to pour it.t. Portland and
the state at larrr. Its thousands
of uhrihcrs in Portland then read
the full atory a g-tcn bv the staff
representatives in the 'dailies of
Boston and Haver!, ill. Here also
was reproduced tlie rditonala c-f
such great papers a The Tran
scnW, and The II fall, further de
scribing and denoii-'cmg the crime,
then the patriots Portland were
moved a were th patriots t.f Mas
sachusetts, and th ..Id spirit of ;t
wa stirred. I .at. i tbey learned
that Cardinal O'C. nm-lf remained
tongue lied, refuscx i, j,im M
law loving and nl . ling Protectant
t lergy and cIit..rs m ttiidemuing
this apalling exbibi'mii of criminal
lawlessness and ni..ls ra. v, and
worse than this siii.tcr sileiue, hi
nct friend, the pMi.,!,t of the
Catholie Federation of the archdio
cese t.f Boston, publicly through
the column of the Boston Herald
and other as'r. justified the crim
inal action of the mob which in
cluded trampling tion our consti
tutional guarantees, defiame t.f the
law of the state, destruction of pub
lie and private property and bodily
injury
citizens.
injury to ieateal.le
law abiding
All these fact were circumstan
tially set forth in the most authori
tative and evidenially convincing
manner by Thk M sack, it great
army of subscribers in Oregon, not
only read this thrilling present day
story of how Rome war tin dem.x--racy
and jmpular right, but the
copies were loaned to tens of thou
sand of other citien. then tame
the historic issue cf Tiif. M knack.
Hummer SH, containing the grent
story of Aotr American patriot
wretked Rome's p,Hti,al machine
in Kana Vitii. thi issue electrified
the true Americans In Portland, a
it hn heartened nnd enthused hun
dred of thousand of friend of
141 .11 V
r unnaineniai isemoeracy all over
thi great land. nn! the patriot of
the t.oM.n West, who Mong to the
splendid patriotic soejetie that in
Portland as elsewhere are doing
noble and effective work in free
dom' caue, got busy, Sf. Lmi
and Kansa City had given the cue.
"imitate Rome by uniting at the
polls," thi was the key to a success
that meant the restoration of de
mocracy from the thralld.un t.f
those who are striving to substitute
the papal for the democratic sys
tem of rule.
The patriot of Portland acted
with commendable promptness.
There was little time to organize an
Independent Voter's league, which
might bring into line the conscience
element of the Protestant electorate
that does not a jet Ixdong to the
patriotic societies, hut the locnl eon
federated patriotic organization in
stantly followed the general course
of the Independent Voter's Ieague
carefully selecting a committee
whose duty it was to rigidly scruti
nize the retards and affiliations of
nil candidates. Tlie following cir
cular or bulletin w.i then mailed
to pnt riots.
(Continued on Pace 2, Column 2)
Patriots
the Republic
MkUo
MAYOR MITCHEL ARRAIGNS DIGNITARIES
Circumstantial Evidence That Confirms The Menace Charges of Rome's
Pernicious Meddling in Public Affairs The Mayor Adds His Testimony
to the Evidence Laid Before the Investigators of Hew York
Charities
rj NE may readily understand
v why l;..nie obj.t to tiics.
H tion and investigation from
U the uproar that ban followed
the investigation of New Yoik
charitic. In desperation the
priestly promoter .f papal thurity
prafl are now fighting their ow u
Koman Catholic maor; and are
sjii.I to bae come within cue ot
of inuing his indi. tuicnt by the
King County grand jury.
This i n serious matter for the
papal party. Political 1,'oiiinuism
hn lii-en hi proscrou in the n
troolis that it has suffered the in
e liable break into fart ion: and
the f.utions are at war. When
thieve fall out. honest men g t
their due: when plunder come
cny, the fieht follows oxer it dis
tribution: and when the looter l
gin to quarrel oer their loot, hon
est' and nnauspevting people make
undreamed nf dioocric.
Mayor Mitehel ha found it de
sirable .to tell much that confirms
the damaging testimony given be
fore the Strong commission; and he
even threatens to tell more. Iloth
sides are wrought up and the pas
sive puhlir is getting an insight in
to charity graft and Koman' Cath
olie rascality suh as honest citizen
seldom dream of.
When Ihe "Strong Commission'
Iwgan its sittings Koine made mery
conceivable effort to ston Ihe hear
ing: for the manager, of Koinish
charity knew how it would likely
exjiose their iniquity and show how
'."..Olio HELPLESS C11ILDKEX
HAD BEEN" NEtJLECTEH
Tllon.Tl THE CITY II A l
BEEX PAYIN'ti FIVE MILLION
imLLAKS A YEAK FOIJ 'J UKI K
CAKE.
With arrogance i hnra. leristic of
his profession l'riet Farrell organ
ized an opsisition that included n
series of pamphlets attacking the
city administration. When sum
moned to apK'ar lie fore the Strong
commission. Farrell ignored the
summons and got out one pamph
let after another in huge quantities
distributed throughout the city by
various Koman Catholic organiza
tion. Mayor Mitehel ssn dicov
ered that he. and hi administra
tion, were to use the slang phrase
about to be made the goat.
A usual, the mayor had recourse
to his trusty police department,
with the result thnt the telephone
wire of hi enemies were tappi-d
and a hundred conversations trans
ferred to paper so they could lie
used at the oortuiie moment.
When tl ie roavor iff ered to introduce
these evidences of criminal plotting
nt the open sessions of the Thomp
son committee, pandemonium broke
loose. His enemies wished to go
into secret session so the disclosures
might le kept from the public.
But, to shorten the story, Mitehel
sun-ceded in finally reading between
thirty and forty of the alleged con
versations: which, if L'ciiuine. .
thai certain of Ihr.ir pioii priest
rrere actually amxjnring to defeat
justice by spiriting desired icihienx
e out of the city.
And now their fellow subject of
the pope is threatened with punish
ment too nunurou to mention;
but the public is more interested in
the revelation Mitehel has made
than they are in the frenzied op
jsisition. Whether Mitehel i right
or wrong, he is certainly on the
right side of this effort to have pri
vate charily graft probed to the
bottom. There is very little alxiut
the man to commend him; hut he
is just as likely to tell the truth as
the crowd that ia fighting him.
Therefore hi statements are en
titled to consideration at least.
Dramatic Scfnei
In what the Xew York Tribune
calls one of the tnot dramatic
rene ever ritneed in that city.
Mayor Mitehel testifying under
oath before the 'fhompson commit
tee on May tit, declared that the
prieet and their oxsociale had in
terfered trith the ritif government,
had attempted to ditcredit city offi
cials rko had blocked their graft,
had attempted to dominalt ths de
partment of charities, had conspired
tt pervert and obstruct fustics end
prevent ths dus administration of
Ut lav. Ui attsmpisd nn.
The Metropolis "Split
III ACCfiMn.lNHF.lt BKIB
EKY. II l CtiXsPIKEH To CT
I KK ( KIMTXAL L1BI.U HA1
COMMITTKH I.IItEU AX P II AH
COMMITTED PEK-H KY.
A he i said to have cVpn-oM
it. the papist mayr "ripst thine
wide open" a scrvi'i' for whnh ad
nar In' duly thankful wlmt.-u r tliev
may think of the tip r. From In
testimony, read fn.tii maim- ' H t
and plll'!lhi-d in the New otk
paper of Mav SI. we ipioie:
Well, gn.llwmsn i.f the o.ii.mittw,
.lui.iitf a i mh nf al.ii) i.n.r.- ' L iit.1 1
iiiin'ti-ci.tntHn on the ln.li.f t.f
I'fiii. h of the n.npinn.i nt, I have ti -iiiiiiihnI
silent Hitm; the .r..M-r op
itt.iinty ati'l r.rutn to tiiKke known th.
I.! nn.'niiiii; this matter of .iir
Tuion of ti'lcphiine line.
It i nivcmiry that mayor of the
rity I shmiht make thn fn-l kiionn.
It h tsvn neei'soary sinoe this que
t ...n was mm .t. It ha leeoiiie more
nernwary in xii-w of the lart that lh.
King County titaiul Jury lias faTii lit
to loilf this wholly unjust iHnl'lc .'hartf''
Ci'i"t tho 'omiiiisioner of Chnriti.1
an.l tho sj-ei-ial Anstnt l'orHiration
t'oiinarl.
I therefore take thia opportunity of
tatinii all the fa.-t roiirerniiiK tlie si
'rision of the thiw telephone wire
hi.h prinmrily or.-ione. lhi itisru
mm, an.l in ot ler to lo mi I mnt state
tn thi committee the iin.errrin facts;
am I, first, an.l a a c.h.ihI prop
osition, 1 with tn say t. thi roninnttce
that for the lt two jeat ami a half
l.irinu the entire life of the prewnt rity
a.lniinistrution there ha l-iu a well-
orcanir.e.1 ami purposeful conspiracy
con.lnctpil t.v a rertaiti niimtr of n
religionists of my own, acting with other
pcra.ui, to l.trurt tho ilue priM'.n of
tint povcriinieiit. In interfere with the
ptupcr an.l or.lcily ron lnct i.f tho ttiiv
crnmcut, an.l with the proper an. I or
.Icrly con.liiet or e.inful of the riale
. liiii.ti.l'le institution of the i i'y, nii'l
the orlerin of the care wh.' h these in
st.liitiiii.s ii to the "J.iMMi il. H n.leut
chiMicu C'.nuuitteJ l.y the rity to their
rare.
Monsignor Got $5,000
Iu. k t.f smce prei hides the print
ing of ni re than the cciitiuls of
the mayor' story on the stand, lie
went into considerable detail con
cerning how a former moderator of
It'. man Catholic charities, .m M..n
sicnor M.Mali. hi. had appropriated
!j.".iMMl drawn from a charitable in
stitution to his own use. Al ter re- j
luting other dctaiN, he continued: j
When thi administration took oflicc, '
it had a ilctinite program an.l piiri.o ;
with rcoar.t tn tbc institution which care
for the dependents committed to them '
hy the city. That purjiose was to secure
humane treatment an.l earn, proper
nourishment, prorr clulhing, proper
houtiinj, and pror recreation. iarticii
larly for the children cnmmitte.1 tn thnx
institution there arc aome "J.fMMl.
Accordingly, Coniniitnioiicr Kinpa
hury waa aelectct a t'ommissinner and
Mr. tlnherty wns selected aa Mepnty
t'ommiioncr, and they were definitely
instructcl bv me to conduct an cinmina-
lion of the condition, of private rhari -'j,,,,;,, ,UUnrl,K tl e admi.,,,-
talde institution, for my cMT,ono tn,llon , ,, ,,,
as a memlr ,.f the earlier mveat.atm ; Mar(,n j ai f Mf ,,,,.
cninm.ttec bad fully .puaintcl me with ir, ,
the fa.t that the conditions of n i.f: ,., e,.mn,ii.,n. j wa. railed t,n
th-s.- .list, ,t, ona were fur from enod p ,,,,,. , . ,.., , H
J.?T v !J '"jo'ilork l.y Mr. ll.cl,kiH. ,l,e s,H u'
nr.ler that all of the three princ,,! rc- ,jMn, ,r .n, , i,,,, rolt,lw. tJt
iM.mia deimmination of the rity "'P; , ,(U w , fcc e.,n,.nh.,,M r of chat it : in
...... o,. ..,,, niatpri ,n,j hl. ,,,, n,P th. , h
micht he reprc ntcl and m order tn(wishp, , 1W , V(.rv j,, , ..
Iliiatantee the fairne of the evam.nn- ,., , , nw11f;,WB- , ,,,,
turn, t omnnssioner KinKsl.nry ats-ured I tin , ,,, ,, .... ,,
my approv al of the appointment of men
representative 01 tnese .irnnminntmn.
There were appointed roproaeiitini; 4he
Catholn. llrothcr Kamals; represent-
ing the Jew. 1'r. liernslem, and rcpre
arming the Protentant, Mr. I!eid.
Tliese men, a a committee, under
took tn make a examination of these
instituliona. What tacr have found ha
..,
record made ls fnre t onim.ss.oiicr Strong
the governor a comm.ssuinrr sittinK " -
.ler the Mnreland art.
That in aome of the-e intitntiora of
all denomination children were found
with their hair knotted with lice, their
acalpa covered with itrhmC n.r... 1 heir
hodica covcre.1 with filthy cloth, that
had not heen change.1 for three weeks,
their tmlio underfed and nndemnur -
ished, deprived of any rcasnnaWe -
KrUinity fur nvreation, comprlhM to sit
on t'ackle wootien incne. some oi
them cmn -lled tn lthe, ten, fifteen, or
twenty five atajidiinjt ia a trough of x
inche of water, many of them r..mpclli
to use the same towel after lathing, and
other kindrct condition.
These condition are ant illustrative
of all the private rharitatde imrtituthw
ef the city, nnr ninst it ! nnderstoihi to
be intended to imply that they are. They
are illustrative onlr of a certain number.
but ther wvre found in that certain num
ber fntaa the time tbia innvtigatKMi gut
wader war dowa to ue present time ftal
culminating in tho indirtrucntt found
thia morning.
There baa teew a peralateat effort to
diacredit the ommiaaioar of eharitiea,
to poll bim C tte tevaaticaUast UmU k
Wide OpenT
wa making ef tl.es, private rhintatle
in. t , tut ....... t . inkl.cn him, to alanoV.
him, tn I atsMt l,uu at crcry oppoc
lui..t, tn mi... i lntc him and tn intimi
dnte the p in., iu or l. r that immuaiiy
fioin m estimation an I from cciure
sh.M.I.I ! ui.- l f..r i Im-c pre ale char1
I Ic net. tut ion.
The pl.n.f tii.iK'i in that effort kC
lvn n. u I ke Mr. Il. t.l-r.l. I n t her Kar
r'!l. thi nisn I'ottir-th' ri minitr
I, nd .l.-i rented rity rmplox an.l a rcr
lain Muni r of other Catholic clergy
men who -aw tit to a)'iate tbrmvT)
w.th ll... niea in this attempt.
Frightful Conditions
Mayor Mitehel t.. .f several
iiiian.i in win. h the usual effort"
o" he charity grafter, to discredit
the iclinmistriitn.il of the iharitie
lepaittucnt. had Im-cii exerteil from
tune to tune, lie sjn.kc of condi
tions existing last ear in the in
-titutioii for the f.s-ble minded on
loin. lull's Island. Said he:
The mu.litiont there were so
that they would l'i;aar lo.-r.pt ion. 1
a aome of them misrlf. I went over
there after the iicrititrndcfit waa re
mitted from ollicc, and I looked at tba
condition that even still prevailed, lo
calise there had not leen time to Correct
them.
1 aaw infant tunc on a inn tmked
icramla l'caue there wa no room to
put them elsewhere. vane there wera
ins.inieieiit mir-R to take them away,
Wit limit even n)o.iuto i.eitinrf to cover
them and with flic crawling in and out
of their mouth. The children in tho
institution had lieeti vermin covered;
they Ii Is. i Im.l l-n compelleil to go
without Minnie of rlothiiin.
A a part of the re..ri;aniat ion of
the IVparttncnt of tl.uritiea the coin
n.issioiier I'Miiyl.t chaij;e ajjainst the
incfliewmt iiperintcn..iit, a Mra. lhinphy.
No wMiner were thoe charea lrU(ht
than pssere conrentratrsl on the
rommissioiier of charitres and on me to
with.lmw the cl arye an.l let this woman
off.
It wna not the first time that similar
ihiutt had occurred. An attempt ha. I
lvti made a f.ir lick a Mayor Jxvtr'a
H-trinitist rntioii tn (..t rid nf her a an
nicllirietit an.l impri4r rity employe,
and thnt had Ikvii frustrated l.r tirrs-
ianre. And pressure nttempicl to
i exerted on ihe commissioner of eharitiea
and mvself faihM.
Cause of the Investigation
The mayor told how Mrs. Iiiin
phy had Im-cii r. in.oe.l after a at rug
.ie which attracted so much atten
tion that a legislative einpiiry was
the result. To continue :
There followed alnu.t immediately
the appointment nf Mr. sitron ,y the
ifovernor n roniinissinner under the
Mnrelnnd at to conduct an investl;a
tion of the H. toi'iei i.f the Mate Hoard
nf I'luiritie. ItcifiniiinK almost with tho
first .lay of the sul.misRiun of evidence,
taking the tetim mj N-fore the govern
or's roinniission, there lH-au what 1 will
l.lail to you in a moment, an attempt
to discredit the I N-partment of tTiaritie.
the governor's commissioner, oil con
cerned wild the inve-tijialioii, and t-i
eeit prtusmc on Loth the (jmcrnor him
wlf and his commissioner, and to in-
I i.ti i.lfi I . C,tr th.t t-.triuxA nt iiri '. ..
;.,.,, . , , r,( f )(, . '
h.h , ,,.,, ,,
,, ,,. , kt ,h, , ... ,, ,
i,r. .,., ,.w,ii...i .i j,,.. t..'. ...
bih h' specified, in hi jmlk'nie'.t,
committed the crime of -erjur. He
pointed out that Hcl.lierd Im.l lei
familiarity with Potter, had .!ei.ie.l fre
qu.nt eou.miinicationii wi'.h 1'nticr b.
leRpnnne aim oinerwiiH, anl ha. I frn-
1 rrM,v .n,.,! ,u w.11(.0 ol ro-opei-Mu.n.
1 w itl" Potter or close associate'!, w.i'i
lm
M'r Hotchkias ported out at th
' ,. ,iw4 i nl,,.a,v fuv lm.
, ,u n,r t,mu knewKsl-e. uaim-Iv. that
,,,,,. 'ytTmm or p,.r,t had ls-n g i.lt v
I of lbr ,.r,nio uf rllmi,ia uv j tm,
j uttering t,f the aeri. .f mphleta
, t rirculated all over ew
1 Yntk at the door of t atholie caur.-hca,
.,) wi,i4., w ai ,h ame cf tfce
a'Hhor that of Willwm It. Kunvll.
Mr. llul.hkis poiut.-d out to me that
be bad reason tn Is lwne that those l.U Is
had len pn-pan-d and uttered not oilr
l.y William 15. Kartell, l.ut by othc.-e
conspiring with him to utter and commit
!! criminal liU-l. He furths-r po.ntoj
out tn me that from all the circunvstaneew
aa level.. d upon the record, the con
duct of witness, and from eitrwneou
fact, some of which were also know to
me, that tnere w serious grounns tor
: tn,
N'lief that there existed a conspiracy
on the art of certain priest r the
rathotie church, rotter, Ilehbect. and
others, to pervert justice and ohstrwc.
(CoatMMM M r4 S, OolaaU 4)
