Bfc
Say, hve yoa a foraitbtd or un
furnished room for rent? Adver
tise it in The Son and let it be
briijing yoa ia something.
We want good reliable
Agents in every city and
town in the country. Write
us for terms.
VOLUME Tffl. NUMBER 41.
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, JUNK 10 lim.
PRICE, 5c.
Get the Best Values -For Your Money by Patronizing Our Advertisers
U. B. F.'S AND S. M. T.'S HOLD
ANNUAL SERMON.
One of the, most Imposing scenes
ever wltnc'ssed In Kansas City was(
seen at the Second Baptist church
and at.Allen chapel at Tenth and Char
lotte, streets last Sunday afternoon.
The occasion was .the annual thanks
giving sermon of the United Brotners
of Friendship and Sisters of the Mys
terious Ten. , The order has grown to
the extent that there la no colored
church In the city largo enough to
hold the entire body at one time, hence
the unprecedented happened and the
organization divided, part of them wor
shipping at Allen chapel and the other
part at tbe Second Baptist church.
Rev, J. W. Hurso preached at Allen
chapel and Rev. T. A. Wilson preached
at' the Baptist church. Mrs. Bertha
Hayes, Princess of J. W. Hurse Tenu
pie, was princess of the 'day, and A.
P. Brown,, master of Fred Dougluass
lodge, was master of the day at the
Second Baptist church Mrs. Mis
souri Ford, Princess of Queen Beat
rice Temple, and Paul V. Whltworth,
master of Justice lodge, were the mas-
ter and princess of the day at Allen
chapel.
Both churches were crowded to
their utmost capacity. I could-not be
in attendance at both churches, and
my Temple having been assigned to
Allen chapel, 1 worshipped there.
It was a magnificent sight to see
the many sisters with their smiling
facesand beautiful snowy white gar
ments; the brothers with their earn
est countenances and splendid lodge j
uniform, and the camp leader, Neal
Range, In their magnificent new full I
dress uniform, their chapeaus, with ,
the beautiful purple plumes and their!
shining silver swords. This was In-
deed' an Inspiring sight. !
After a few remarks from the mas- j
ter of the day, Bro. Paul Whltworth, I
the right worthy grand master of the
state of Missouri and its Jurisdiction,
rr f M -Williams, was introduced
and after having been given grand four and a half blockB In length. It
honors by the entire body, he ad-1 encircled a square, passing the an
dressed them in his own eloquent way. cient landmark, the A- M. E. Book
nv si W Hume, third member of (Concern, returning entered Mother
the board of management and min-! Bethel where rests the ashes of Rich-,
istor of the day, was introduced, and , ard Allen Its founder, and .where may .
preached an excellent sermon, "Ethi- j be seen the quaint old pulpit from
opi Shall Stretch Forth Her .Hands,', -which Jie prpached. the old chair In
to f&d." taking for his theme "The which he sat. the old clock that look
Progress of the Race," The sermon ed forward to the Centennial Gjmeral
was highly instructive as well as splr- j Conference. .
itual, showing that Rev. Hurso was- Bishop Tyree and the sub-commit-
j ..i .nnn.itoo nf mnnn?pmflllt linrf urovlded well I
wen up on me uuwga ui io mv,
their financial and moral condition all
over the United States, and the spirit
of the Almighty was with him thru
out his sermon. Truly it was a mas
terpiece.
Tbe music was furnished by the TJ.
B. F. and S. M. T.. choir under the i
direction of Miss Magnolia Lewis.
This young lady deservesmuch cred
it for untiring efforts with this choir. .
For the past six years she has kept
this choir intact and has them ready
at a moment's n6tice to do service
for the sister and brotherhood on any
occasion. And when it was known
that the organization was to be divid
ed on this becasion tho. question arose,
what'shall we do for music, but Miss
Lewis bade the general committee
.rest easy as their own U. B. F. and
S. M. T. choir was large enough to
divide- and a part of them would be
sent, to each church. "
All persons who were present at
Allen chapel will agree with me when
I say the 'music, was excellent and
that Miss XTewls "certainly knowsf her
business as a dlrectoress. We have
but to ask; MJss Lewi's for what we
want in her cholrand we get It. She
Is unassuming, sweet tempered and
good natured always, but a tireless
worker In every branch of tijjs grana
old order.- We are proud of her, proud
of her ability and we are .willing to
admit tha't.she Is pne'of the most valu
able memb'eTSnot only In tho city but
in tho jurisdiction.
Mrs. BJrdle Thurman, a member of
Miss Lewis' Temple as well as a mem
ber of the choir, covered herself with
glory In the singing of her solo, "God
Will Take v Care of You."' She has a
beautiful volcev and knows how to
handle it. '
The finance committee, consisting
of Mrs. Lizzie Moten,, chairman; Mrs.
Fllza Lynn, secretary, and MrJonoph
I'arron reported ?102.G0 as the col
lection for the afternoon.
Fifteen temples and six lodges were
In attendance at Allen chapel aiul
the master and paBt master.vprincess
and past princesses presented a beau,
tlfiil nicture as they sat around the
altar. Thus ended one of the mosj.
iram-esslve' sermons in the history oti
1
thfi order.
Besides having n number of grand
lodge, of tlpera present, we were fa
vored with the. nresence of the fol
- lqwlng grand temple officers: Mrs,
Sara. Lee Hammett, grana Jirsi mwu
or-honor of 'the Grand Hynl House;
- " Mrs. Alice Levis, a member of the
grand sic" committee; Mrs. Hattle
Williams, past 'grand Joshua; Mrs.
Lula M, Bates, -grand first attendant
' of Grand Royal House; Miss Magno
lla Lewis, .past graud treasurer, and
Mrs. Annie E. Floyd, second 'grand
trusteo of, the Grand Temple.
MRS. ANNIE E. FLOYD.
Nnvt week the publishing conmi it-
tee of tho Colored Federated Charities
will publish a full report of all dcjfia -
Ulous received since last report.
Centennial Geaeral Conference of
the A. M. E. Church, Held in
Bethel A. M. E. Church,
PhiladeIphia,Fcnii.,
May, 1916.
j By EI)W.n.VAUGHA,
Dean Shaffer Theological Seminary,
-Western University,
, Mr. Etiltor, with your permission I
wish to glye your many readers the.
benefltpf some Information about our
General Conference .which closed last
Week In Philadelphia.'
This Is a very .large as well as very,
representative b6dy of Colored people.
Classified, It Is composed of the fol
lowing: BIsIiods. General Officers,
Presidents of our Colleges, dean of
our- Theological Seminaries, and mem-'
ters elected by the various annual
conferences. The total membership
Is 034. As to the magnitude of the ;
work and territory covered, some idea
may ie gained by this statement: We
had delegates from South and West
Coast Africa, British America, Bert,
muda, the West Indies, South America
and the United States- Thus viewed,
it is seen that the sun never sets on
African Methodism in action. As to i
the personnel of this body, every pro-1
fesslon of gainful occupation was rep-1
.resented1 teacher, preacher, lawyer i
doctor, banker, insurer, farmer, artl-(
san and what not was there. Truly, a ,
cosmopolitan gathering of representa-1
tlve Negroes. -
Philadelphia, the city that enter-;
tatned the conference was founded
about 1G81 by the Quakers under Will
lam Penn, on a vast tract of land
along me ueiaware river, granieu we
Penn family In cancelling a great debt
which the English Crown owed the
Penn family. Every inch. of ground,
therefore', thereabouts Is historic and
most of the great fundamental prlnei-,
pies underlying our government had
their origin here.
But back to the subject: A centen-.
nlal procession was formed in accord
with the classification above and wa3
tee of management had provided well
for the conference's entertainment.
A post office, telegraph office, tele
phone office, spacious dining rooms,
automobile service and a banking sys
tem directed by very efficient finan
cial secretary. Professor John It.
HawKins. i ne uauy necuiuer, laigci ,
and more complete than ever before
at any of our General uonierences,
was well edited by Professor Wright,
JJr. McDonald and Dr. Allen. The
west will be pleased to know, because
of efficiency the most conspicuous
person on the staff of reporters was
Miss Jaunita Adam's, wfio graduated
from the Business Department of
Western University a. few years ago !
and who is now with the A. M. E. Sun-1
day-School Union. Bishop Lee pre-
sided over the opening session. i
Early in the second -week or con
ference a large delegation made an
official pilgrimage to Bethel A. M. E.
church, Baltimore, Md which enjoys
the honor and distinction of being
contemporaneous with Mother Bethel,
Philadelphia, in early labors. It Is,
therefore, an historical spot. Hence
the visit.
The fraternal messages from other
churches were very cordial and Indl
cated a healthy growth In them. At
one time 't seemed that all our semi
naries would be discontinued but two,
the Western Chrltslan Recorder dis
continued, the office of tho Manager
of Book Concern abolished and also i
that of educational secretary, but ma
turer deliberations loft them as they
were. The election of more bishops
was controverted for several days, fi
nally by a very decided majority vote
the doors were opened and an agree
ment entered Into to elect two more
bishops;
After a very spirited campaign all
the old general officers were re-elected.
By resolution all our schools, col
leges and universities are to be stan
dardized through the po-operation of
Educational Secretary. Committee to
standardize all-our Theological Semi-1
mntAa r rn Tin n rt fjpnrirfi I?. Wnnrlson. I
Wilborforce University; Dr. 6, E.
Jones, pastor Lexington, Ky,J Dean
Edward R. Vaughan, Western Unlver-
slty; President W. A. Fountain, Mor-
t n1lAni nni1 HP r Volenti
rls Brown College; Dead T. B. Nelson
of Allen University,
The pageant arranged 6y Prof. Du
Bols to counteract the "Birth of a Na
tion" was a great feature In Phila
delphia during the conference. Twelve
hundred persons took part. It lias
been played in New York, Boston and
Philadelphia' to mammoth audiences.
The episcopal committee on which
our own Dn Ransom,, Dr, Peck, Dr.
Crews atfd Dr. Craw are members,
made tho? assignment of bishops for
the ensuing quadrennlum.
Tims ended the lOQtU anniversary
of African Methodist growth.
Mrs. Cora, Cox, 2210 "Woodland ave
nue, "has Just returned from a visit
ko Eastern cities. Including New York
wasnineton ana aubuuc wu.
A CREED.
To llvo-as gently as I can
To be, no matter where, a man;
To take what comes of good or
,111 .
And cling to faith and honor
still;
To do my, best, and let that
stand"'
" The record of my brain and
hand,
And then, shall failure come
to me
To work and hope for victory.
To have no. secret place where
in I stoop unseen to shame or sin;
To bo the same when I'm alone
As when my every deed Is
known;
To live' undaunted, unafraid
Of any step that I hate made;
To be without pretense or sham
Exactly what men think 1 am.
To leave some simple mark be
hind That I have lived' for men to
find
If enmity to aught I show
To be an honest, generous foe;
To play my little part, nor
whine
That greater honors are not
mine.
This, I believe. Is all I need
For my philosophy and creed.
Detroit Free Press.
JOHN MITCHELL, JR. "
President of Mechanics' Saving Bank of Richmond, Mo., editor of the Richmond Planet, Grand Chancellor of
the K. of P.'s of that state, who will be one of the. speakers at the National Negro Business League to be
held in this cltyln August.
Buffalo, N. Y, The Masonic family
of Buffalo, N. Y., enjoyed a real treat
In the visit of Mrs. Alfonso Wilson of
Omaha, ' P. G. lecturer of Missouri,
who has been the guest of Mr. and
Mrs. O. H. Chase. Mrs. IWlson Il
lustrated the work both In a public
lecture and a private meeting with
Naomi chapter No. 10, In a manner
hitherto unqualled. Mrs. Wilson is
distinguished as being one of the most
enthusiastic lecturers and best in
formed members of female Masonry
Buffalo has eve'r beard.
The beautiful parlor of Mrs. G. H.
Chase was taxed to its capacity on
Monday evening.. The occasion being
the. Masonic reception tendered Mrs,
Wilson. Mrs. Chase was chairman.
The Masonic lecture given by Mrs.
Wilson enlisted the warmth of all
those interested in Masonry.
After the social side of Buffalo be
ing much enjoyed by the ' Western
visitor she left Saturday morning to
visit the Grand chapter at Now York
City. Mrs, Wilson on returning home'
will speak to Tyro and St John's
lodge, J. R. Slason, P. H. G, Patron,
Jurisdiction New York. v
Mrs. Mattie G. Wilson, 2451 Euclid
avenue,who has been quite 111, Is con-valcsclng.
RV. WILLIAM H. THOMAS
WILL PREACH THE BACCALUREATE SERMON
TO THE GRADUATING- CLASS
OF THE WHEATLEY PROVIDENT HOSPITAL
. .AND -NURSE TRAINING ASSOCIATION
SUNDAY EVENING, JUNE 11
j 8 P. MAT
'ALLEIPOHAPEL, 10TH AND CHARLOTTE STS. '
Special musip will be furnished by Professor R. G. Jack
sen. The graduating exercises will be held Thursday evening-,
June 15, at Centennial M. E. Church, 19th and Woodland ave
nue. You and your friends are cordially invited to be present.
I
BROTHERHOOD,
By B. V. LONODOX.
Turn from the glaring head lines
In the newspapers of the day, from the
accounts of carnage and suffering, and
Hilnlt hnw nnhlv th snlrlt of broth-
erhood Is fostered nnd adhered to In '
the nations. Yet In my emphatic opin-
ion real brotherhood Is Retting rusty
and corroded around the edges.
Whether banker or pauper, ruler or
ruled, white or black, under the skin
we are pretty much all alike, and to
accomplish the purposes of brother-
hooil we must Dossesa a real heart
Instead of a mere pumping machine
The concrete facta of sudden disaster
and dreadful loss Instantly quicken
the abstract sense of kinship and bring
sharply home to every one the lesson
GRAND OPENING.
Monday Evening, June 12, 1916,
Yourself and friends are invited to
attend our grand opening of the Acme
. B b.a .
P o clock. All new dances' will be
demonstrated.
Best orchestra. Frederick Conley,
floor manager. Regular nights. Mon -
day. Wednesday and Friday. Admis
sion 15 cents. Couple 25 cents. Acad
emy foe rent Select occasions. Chas,
Jackson, Manager.
ALLEN CHAPEL. I
An unusually large congregation as
sembled at Allen chapel last Sunday
PASTOR CHARLES T. RUSSELL
"The World's on Fire"
Garden Theatre, 13th and McGee Sts.
TUESDAY, JUNE 13th, 8:00 P. M.
Seats Free No Collections
of our Interdependence In all the vi
tal concerns of life of our constant
need as Individuals, of charity In
thought, of kindness In deed, and of
promptness In well doing. We see
crime on every hand; we see hideous
poverty; we see prostitution assum-1
lnB gigantic proportions; we read of
mobs and vast armies and navies
we Bee and read all of this in an age
enjoying tho greatest prosperity, in
" nes of activity, that the world
"as ever known. Is It not natural to
a3k is anything held so cheap as hu-
man life? Iu W equally emphatic
opinion we should all be Inspired to
Practice the spirit of brotherhood and
tn a greater or lesser degree, dedicate
our llves to the purpose of bettering
conditions and helping ou rfellows.
morning and the services were up to
, the usual high standard. Rev. W. H.
Thomas preached both morning and
evening.
June 1Q the choir will give
an entertainment.
ti,. nrn-rnm win
j ue lurnisneu oy rroi. jacKbon s muBlc
students. The proceeds will go to -
ward buying lockers for the choir
memhers. June 18 Rev. A. A. Oil-
! wt win n-nnh. . . ..innw RndPnvnr
at CtoO. Mrs. Radcllff ls supervisor.
Mr, A. W. Lloyd, grand chancellor
Knights of Pythias of Missouri, Is In
the city for about ten days visiting the
Kansas City lodges. Mr. Lloyd re-1
ports that he finds them In good work- j
lng order and is well pleased with the :
outlook.
MM E. CORA MERRITT EVANS.
Soprano soloist who, with Mme. Corrine Bettis Smith, reader, will give a
recital Monday, June 19, at the Sjmner High School, Kansas City, Kas.
for the benefit of the Y. W. C. A.
ON SOCIAL EQUALITY.
By CHAS. A. STARKS.
The things that make for a hlaher '
civilization naturally make for a bet-
ter society. Science, art and lltera-
ture forms the triple alliance which
has ever importantly promoted men :
to higher planes of experience. These
subjects occupy the minds of those
that make un our communitlns Thpse
subjects of discourse are represented , kindness, companionship, agrceable
and discussed In their multiform sub- "ess and other good qualities, its ex
dlvlsions. These make up the great emplification.
idea of human life. Here sociality be
comes a world thought.
To every individual of the world the
pertinent question could be asked:
How have you complied with the con
ditlons of human experience that you team, one of the classiest white teams
found here upon your arlval and your ; In Kansas City, in the second game
awakening to manhood? How much of a double header at Federal League
have you contributed to the stability of . park. The first game between the
social Institutions? The final ques- Tigers and the Wizards will be called
tlon appears to be: How far have you at 1:30. The Hornets are going to
raised the standard in your individual celebrate their opening game by mak
sphere, or have you really lowered it? ing It ladles day. All ladies escorted
Men act uponrcondltions either good by gentlemen will be admitted free,
or bad. This is the only real social If not they will be required to pay the
distinction. Mere wealth, power, race , general admission. Hon. Nelson C.
or color are fading nonenities. The , Crews will pitch the first ball across
great moral law of right, of purity of j the plate. The Troost avenue car will
motive is the only true line of demark-1 carry you to the gate. General ad
ation. It separates the wheat from mission 25 cents to grand stand. Box.
the chaff. Men may not always see I seats 10 cents extra,
this on account of its subtlety, but It
is eternally true.
Social equality is only proven by
' somebody's social proclivities. It Is
I necessary, in order to prove any de-
gree of social equality to standardize
those who would socialize, and there-
fore form what is correctly called so
I clety. But in the standardization Of
men let us have truth, value, merit,
I honesty and purity. Let these form
the basis, the sub-stratum of our ex
; istence.
' The true value of any knowledge
' Is Its Immediate application or deni
i onstration. Therefore a brief exam-
i ination of the applied term social
equality will reveal wonders. We j
have seen a reasonable definition of i
the phrase, now note the sophistries: I
Social equality means white su
premacy. It means pushing back one !
1 unit and holding up another; tt means i
Ignoring the merit sign and putting
.a premium on color and caste; it
means hate against love and preju-1
' dice against justice. All of which
' serves to prevent a free or compan
i lonable representation and discussion
I of social ethics among all qualified
units and naturally stays the wheels
1 of progress.
As for the Colored man who is un
I happy the butt of this illogical course,
i He Is still demanding some of his
primitive righto and asking a smat-
tcring of consideration. The Colored
' man knocks a.t the portal of social
1 equality call It social justice if you
want to, but I prefer the former.
I The white man forces the average
Colored man away from the very Idea
of "social equality." The Colored
thinker comes back with the claim
that he only wants "social Justice."
' But when was there ever justice with'
i out equality? The scales correctly
balanced spell either -justice'
either
or
four.
1 "equality,"
Two and two are
and th,s conclusIon ls reached either
1 by 'a Just or equal law of reasoning,
' Now, what Is the difference? Put
l-c-e after just and 1-t-y after equal-
' ana you naV6 respectively
'Justice"
on the one hand and "equality" on the
! other. Can you beat It?
I Tho constant and recurring assump
tion ot our white fellow Is his vaunted
superiority. He does this to reject
tbe equally constant knocking ot his
Colored brother who summons him to
accounr?by his own meritorious con
tcntions for recognition. Tho brother
in black says In substance; I conform
with what I find here already estab
lished; I accept It; I meet tho condi
tions of your common cause; I aid Ub
stability by my work; I contribute to
Its elevation by my genius and soul;'
Its solidarity by my loyalty to the
working principles; I give you pa
tient toll; I suffer for you; I give you
music to cheer you, . music from
Africa's muse from Ethiopia, the land
of the day sun; I give you heart and
service in the calling ot citizenship; I
am meeting the requirements of man
hood and a now day. The spirit ot a
nobler civilization Is upon me, I am
looking up, not selfishly, but for hu
manity. Now what ask, yes demand,
Is Co-operation, if you refuse me
this, then It is I who may claim su-
perlorlty! Co-operation is another
name for sociality. There is no real
co-operating without a like degree of
socializing. The peasant must ascend
to the height of the king or the king
must come down to the plain of the
peasant. There must be a level before
there can be an understanding. I un-
derstand truth to be that level, and
(To be continued.)
The K. C. Hornets, one of the fast
est colored teams In and around Kan
sas City, will meet the Missouri Dairy
Chicago, June 6. The entire Demo
cratic ticket was elected by a substan
tial majority in today's judicial elec
tion. The bridge bond issue of more
1 than a million dollars and the electric
light extension bond issue carried.
The bond Issue for a new county jail
failed to carry.
SPECIALS FOR TODAY
AND NEXT WEEK AT
V B IBB j
rua store
50c Caldwell's Syrup of Pep
sin 45c
$1 Wine Cardul 85c
$1 Alarm Clocks 75c
Uoc Black Draught 15c
$1 Tennis Rackets 85c
$1 Lydla Plnkham's Veget
able Compound 85c
25c Tooth Brushes 15c
$1 Beef Iron and Wine 75o
75c Alcohol Stoves 50c
FISHING TACKLES
STAGE MAKEUP
White's Specific Face Cream 25c
Madame Walker Grower. .. .50c
Madame Walker's Glosslne. ,35c
Madame Walker's Shampoo. 50c
Madame Walker's Temple
Grower 35c
Madame Walker's Tetter
Salve 50c
Aida Pomade 15c
Rozol 25c
Milson's Hair Grower 25c
Straightening Combs.
Pocket Knives.
Eye Glasses. .
Clocks.
Watches.
Manicuro Sets.
Specials at our Soda Fountain.
Pussy Foot sundaes.
Tango Sundae on a blazer.
All sodas 5 cents a glass.
Loose-Wiles Chocolates on Ice.
All Leading Negro Newspapers
for Sale at Smith's.
Kansas City Sun.
Freeman.
N. Y. Age. '
Chicago Defender.
Boston Guardian.
Dallas Express.
Topeka Plalnder.
Kansas Elevator.
The Crisis.
Special for restaurants and
boarding houses, 1,000 white
glazed Paper Napkins for COc
We carry the Penslar Line.
If you call on your best girl and
find her with tho blues, suggest
a Pussyfoot Sundae or a nice
box of fresh Ice cooled Choco
lates under our electric fan and
note the change.
Smith's Drug Store
Home Phone Main 5467,
Bell Phone Grand 4591.
Mall orders filled.
