THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 74.
BARRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, . JUNE 10, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT,
G.. 0. R' NOMINATES HUGHE
BULL MOOSE NAME TEDDY
New York Man Was Nominated On
the .Third Ballot by a Most Decisive
Vote, the Favorite Sons Having
Released Their Delegates After the
Second Ballot
ROOSEVELT WAS NOT
OPPOSED IN HIS PARTY
All Efforts to Reach a Compromise
Failed, the Name of Lodge Having
Been Coldly Received by the Re
publicans as Well as Progressives ,
Coliseum, Chicago, June 10. Justice Charles Evans Hughe3 of
the United States supreme court was, to-day nominated by the
Republicans as candidate for the president of the United btates.
The vote was: Hughes 94712, Roosevelt 18, Lodge .7, DuPont 5,
LaFollette 3, Weeks 3.
At the same time the Progressives nominated Theodore Roose
velt bv acclamation.
At the very moment when it was flashed to. the Progressive
convention that Hughes had beeji nominated oy tne ttepuDncans
at the Coliseum, Chairman Robins was announcing that Roosevelt
had been nominated. The Progressives recessed until 6
'. ', -
Chicago, June 10. A report inai me
Republican delegates instructed for vari
ous favorite son candidates would break
to Hughes when the balloting began to
day after the two indecisive ballots yes
terday was generally credited. It was
said that the Illnois delegation, which
had been instructed for Senator Sherman,
would go over in a body.
Senator Weeks of Massachusetts soon
followed with the announcement that he
released his delegates. On the first bal
lot yesterday Weeks had 105 votes. A
large part of the Massachusetts delega
tion insisted they would stay with Weeks
until the end, but it was understood that
his supporters from other states would
be generally for Hughes, rftrroanks sup
porters also gave indications of not press
ing their fight further, and the Hughes
leaders expected more additions to their
column from Indiana and other Btates.
The combination conferences of the Re
publicans and Progressives continued vir
tually all night without reaching an
agreement. '
The Republican convention was late in
assembling. At 11 o'clock, the hour for
Oklahoma Hughes 19, Roosevelt 1.
Oregon Hughes 10.
Pennsylvania Hughes 72,' Roosevelt 3,
Rhode Island Hughes 10.
ISouth Carolina Hughes fi, DuPont 5.
South -Dakota Hughes 10.
Tennessee Hughes 18, Roosevelt 3.
Texas Hughes 2fi.
Utah Hughes 7. Roosevelt 1.
Vermont Hughe 8.
Virginia Hughes 15.
AVashington Hughes 14.
West Virginia-Hughes 16.
Wisconsin Hughes 23, LaFollette 3.
Wyoming--Hughes 6. -
Alaska Hughes 2. .
Hawaii Hughes 2.
Philippines Hughes 2.
ill - Sss. JZAJX
i . ,ym
v - t l', m St
u : v
HELD CONFERENCE IN BARRE.
Officials of Central Vermont Passenger
Department H.ere.
Officials of the passenger department
of the Central Vermont railway held
their summer conference in Barre last
evening and went to the quarries thia
morning a the guests of J. M. Bout well
of Bout w ell, Milne &. Varnum and D. M.
Barclay of linn-lay Bros. The officials
left for St. Albans at llt.VI o'clock, after
a profitable visit in the granite city.
A desire on the part of the passenger
agents to get better acquainted with the
' : . : I . . . . i n i r
yisiinc, muiiiary in nwrre ann narrc
Town and the'eity's improved hotel fa
cilities is said to have prompted the deci
sion to hold the summer conference here.
Last evening at Hotel Harre, where the
railroad men were registered during their
stay in the city, a conference on summer
fares was held, with the following men
participating: J. W. Hanley of St. Al
bans, general passenger agent; A. The
rien of Holyoke, Mass. j M. Alexie of
Montreal. P." Q.; W. R. Eastman of St.
Albans, chief clerk; H. R. Bovce of St.
Albans, E. H. Boynton of Boston, A. M.
Lccleston of New lork.W. J. (rrant of
Boston and A. C. Wentworth of Spring
field. Annually, the men of the passert
gcr department get together to discuss
vacation fares, and for reasons already
stated the conference was held in Barre
this year.
The railroad men had nothing but
praise for the lodging accommodations
and cuisine
tions were made
in Barre, especially with reference to mo
torists, will greatly increase. A number
of the delegation mem?ers paid their first
... : t a i J ti; . ,
vwifc iu in quarries whs morning, wnen
two large autos were provided for their
transportation. The idea of a trip to
Millstone bill was a happv afterthought
of Station Master J. H. L. Carr, as the
gathering in the city was primarily for
the purpose of conferring on fares, heed
less to say, all felt amply repaid for the
time spent in going from quarrv. to quar
ry on tho hill with representatives of the
quarrying concerns along with them to
explain the magnitude of the industry.
. AGED LADY HONORED.
53 GRADUATES
BID FOND ADIEU
TO SPAULDING
First Honor Part Taken by
Miss Mary Bishop, Who
Gave an Essay on " The
Fashion of Poetry " Sec
ond Honor Awarded to
Miss Ida Carusi, Whose
Part Was Reading of "The
Sign of the Cross"
SPEAKER OF EVENING,
PROF. TINKER OF YALE
'
Was Filled
with Friends of the School
and of the Graduates, and
Exercises Were Held to
Be Among the Best Ever
Given at a Spaulding
Graduation
Certificates of graduation were distrib
uted to an out-going class of 53 young
men and young -women at the 23d annual
MARY BISHOP
(Spaulding- Firat Honor Graduate)
RUIK KLIZABKTH AKGELL
VIOLET BROWX
XLVA CLARA ASELLINI
HELKV MAY COXXOR
AOXKS ISA BELLE D0XALD
FRAXCKS MARY HXXIGAX'
CHRISTIXA AXXIE (VRAHAM
RUTH EVELYX HUMPHREY
GRACE McPHEE McDOXALD
.IESS1CA FLOREXCE MacIVER
,IXEZ EM ELI A MABER1XI
ELLEN MORX
IDA EMMA MORUZZI
EDITH AXXIE REII)
PHYLLIS ELLEX VERCOE , ,
'Madine Johnson Rogers, completes tha
course as a graduate student. .
Commercial course
WEXDELIX JOHX BECK '
CAR0LIXE MARY THERESA CAL-
V
CHARLES EVANS HUGHES
Republican Candidate for President
THE TWO BALLOTS.
ballot would give him a
which it was called, only a few delegates I sisted adjournment, but the convention
Hughes Jumped from 2534 to 3281
Votes Weeks Was Second.
Chicairo. June 10. On the two and
onlv ballots taken yesterdav in the Re
publican national convention, Justice
Hughes led the field and gained strength
His supporters, confident that anothe
majority, re
had arrived, and many gallfry seats were
vacant. A the delegates gathered, it was
etated that California was expected to
lead off in the ballotmg with her entire 26
votes for Hughes.
When John McGrath, Roosevelt's secre
tary, appeared on the platform, Chairman
Harding was asked what it meant. "We
are going to get together," he replied.
Hughes appeared to be gaining strength
as the hall filled and the time for con
vening approached. It was definitely stat
ed that Fairbanks had released all his
Supporters except the Indiana delegation,
which would cast one more ballot for him.
It was Said that the Ohio delegation, with
one possible exception, would vote for
Hughes, and ex-Secretary Simson stated
that the Xew York contingent with pos
sibly only a few exceptions would go for
Hughes, and to Fairbanks for vice-president.
Senator Penrose declared that the
sentiment seemed to be all for Fairbanks
for second place. - I
It was 11:40 when Chairman Harding
let his gavel fall, and the convention was
in order. Dr. (Jerson B. Levi offered the
opening prayer, after which Senator
Smooth presented the peace conference
report. When he announced that the name
of Justice Hughes had been presented to
the Progressive convention, the delegates
cheered loudly.
Following the. conference report, Sena
tor Smoot read the message from Roose
velt, suggesting Lodge. There was some
applause, hut only Massachusetts arose.
When Smoot concluded with the name
"Roosevelt,'' there were brief cheers.
When Colorado was reached. Delegate
Stevenson, speaking for the delegates in
the convention who have been supporting
Roosevelt, withdrew his name from fur
ther consideration.
The ballot follows:
Alabama Hughes 16.
Arizona Hughes 5, Roosevelt 1.
Arkansas Hughes 15.
California Hughes 2fi.
Colorado Hughes 9, Roosevelt 3.
Connecticut Hughes M-
Dclcwsre Hughes 8.
Florida Hughes 8.
(eorgia Hughes 17. ,
Idaho Hughes 8.
Illinois Hughes .tS.
Indiana Hughes 30.
Iowa Hughe 2(1.
Kansas Hughes 20,
Kentucky Hughes Cft.
lionisiana Hughes 12.
Maine Hufhes 12.
Man land Hughe IS. Roosevelt 1.
' Massachusetts Hughe 32, Roosevelt
3, Weeks 1.
Missouri Hughes 34, Weeks 2.
Mu-Miwippi
Montana Hughes 7. Roowelt 1.
Xrhrsska Hughes 16.
Nevada H.ighca 5.
New Hmphir Hug 8.
New Jrey Htighe 27, Rnravrelt I.
New Mnx-o Hughes S, Roosevelt 1.
V V L II.. V c
North t'aroJina Hushes 14, LoHg 7.
Norta Tfekota-Htighe 10,
Ofcio HcgSe 4S.
tired and worn with a continuous ten
hour session, was determined to rest till
this morning at 11 o'clock and adjourned
until that hour. It was the first time
since 1888 that a Republican convention
has taken more than one ballot to choose
a presidential nominee
On the first ballot, Justice Hughes
polled 25314 votes. He got 42 from his
own state and aside from Oregon and
Florida the remainder were largely scat
tering. On th second ballot, he in
creased to 328 votes. It required 494
votes to nominate.
Colonel Roosevelt's topmost strength in
the first day s balloting was 81 votes.
Beside Governor Hughes, the colonel and
Charles W. Fairbanks of all the 18 men
who had votes on the first ballot, alone
made an increase on the second.
The expected demonstration for Colo
nel Roosevelt when he was nominated bv
Senator Fall of Xew Mexico lasted 41
minutes and broke the record for this
convention. AH observers agreed that it
was largely a gallery demonstration and
that the participation was scattering
from the delegate section. The Fair
banks demonstration ran next with 35
minutes, the Burton demonstration last
ed 34 minutes, and the Hughes demon
stration lasted 20 minutes.
On the first ballot, the delegates fol
lowed their instructions, voting for favor
ite sons and primary choices. Senator
Weeks got 10S, Elihu"Root 103. Cummins
80, Fairbanks 74l. Sherman 6fl. Roose
velt 65 and Knox 3o. Henry Ford got
Michigan's 32 votes by instructions. For
mer President Taft got 14 from Texas
and the scattering included compliment
ary votes for Horah, vv illis and MeCall,
and the instructed vote for other candi
dates. On the second ballot, Michigan turned
30 over to Hughes and gave Colonel
Roosevelt 2; .McCall of Massachusetts
turned his vote to the justice amid great
applause; Senator Lodge, who had nomi
nated Senator Weeks, turned his vote
over to Colonel Roosevelt; W. Murray
Crane announced his vote for Hughes';
Missouri gave the justice 22 of her 3:
New Jersey gave him Irt. The New York
delegation vote on the second ballot
stood: Hughes 43. Root 42 and Roose
velt 2. Pennsylvania's second ballot was;
Knox 36, Roosevelt 22, John Wanamakcf
, Hughe 8, DuPont 2, Root I, and 1
not voting.
Vermont cast it entire eight for Jus
tice Hughes on both ballots.
Before the econd ballot was taken. one
of the favorite sons. Governor Brum
baugh, withdrew anil proposed the nomi
nation of Colonel Roosevelt. The other
favorite sons remained through the bal
loting. On the second ballot, one tote
was cast for Ma inr -General Ieonarl
Wood and one for Chairman Hardinp.
Missouri, 2 in Nebraska, 3 in Xew Hamp
shire, 4 in Xew Jersey, 1 In Xew York,
6 in Pennsylvania, 2 in South Carolina,
2 in Texas, 2 in Utah. 3 in Virginia, 3 in
West Virginia, 1 in Hawaii. He lost I
in Arkansas and 1 in Hawaii.
Roosevelt gained lrt votes on the sec
ond ballot. One of these came from
Maine,. 1 from Massachusetts, 2 from
Michigan, 15 from Pennsylvania, and 1
from Texas. He lost 1 vote in, Idaho, 1
in Sonth Carolina, 1 in Washington, and
1 in Georgia. ,
In ten continuous hours, the delegates
yesterday sat through 11 nominating
speeches, which presented JusticelluglMS,
Elihu Root, former Senator Burton, Sen
ator Weeks, T. Coleman DuPont, Sena
tor Sherman, former Senator Fairbanks,
Senator Cummins, Colonel Roosevelt,
Senator LaFollette and Govertior Brum
baugh. There were a various number of
seconding speeches. Ten had been planned
for Colonel Roosevelt, and although
Chairman Harding agreed to recognize
them all, they did not all appear. The
demonstrations, as candidates were nom
inated, were the usual cheering, roaring,
marching affairs.
During the uproar that greeted the
nomination of Colonel Roosevelt, the po
lice had to be sent to the galleries to
stop women tearing bunting from the
railings. Otherwise the demonstrations,
although noisy and prolonged, were good
natured and orderly.
The total vote of the convention fixed
by the credentials committee at PSP was
reduced to 0S7 because the two Porto
Rican delegates failed to qualify. This
reduced the number necessary for a nom
ination to 404, instead of 49,"i, as previ
ously had been announced.
her friends yesterday, and at her home,
13 Central street, the venerable woman
had the pleasure of greeting a number of
acquaintances who called to congratulate
ner on attaining such a ripe old age. The
years nave been kind to Mrs. Stewart and
time's lines are not written so heavily
....
on ner teatures that she cannot wear is
smile which the cares of a workaday
worm cannot erase. Nie is in excellent
1 . . . . . .
gressive convention suggested the name M"1 snd quite as active as many people
of Henry Cabot Lodge of Massachusetts a M 01 fan, Jmor.
Mrs. Jane Stewart of Central Street Was commencement exercises of Spaulding CAGXT
87 Years Old. "lgn 8C"00' m tne Pfr a house last even- iUKijAiifc L JUSfcl'lUX h l AKU
Mrs. Jane Stewart's 87th birthday wm graduation week of Unusual activity WILLIAM JOHN" DIXKEX
cry graciously rememoereq-ly many 01 I ELVIRA GIUPIC1
as a compromise candidate, upon whom
Doth parties could unite.
Roosevelt said that about 5 o'clock this
morning lie was notified by the Progrcs
Twice each Sunday Mrs. Stewart at
tends worship at the First Presbyterian
church and counts that Sabbath lost
when unpropitious weather prevents her
sive conferees that thev had iom to no fr0"i participating in the services. She
conclusion with the Republicans, and the ig a "tful'1'' attendant at the midweek
latter had aked again for any suggestion Pr,.vw meeting and is deeply interested
as a candidate from the Progressive con- l"B "i tne cnurcn.
ferees. He then wired, stating that he 5rrs' !5t's't is a native of Dalbeattie,
deeply appreciated their loyalty to Mm Swla''l. "t while she hd something of
and t Meir efforts to ffet him nominate. .oveniner in ner maneup, ner new
but he thought the time had come when, " loPIPS ln " t'WTSi. Jn
carrying out of the spirit of the state- otnr " " w devotee of the
ment of the national committee irt Janu- danre. but the spritely reels and minuets
ary and the statement made bv him in of ,onK alf' he says, measure more near-
Trinidad it w their dntw in nii a '.V up to her idea of what the dance
alternative name on which he hoped the ,n'uI1 thn the figures affected by
republicans and Progressives could unite. " l'" nancers ot io-aay. Mrs.
He suggested Lodge. Stewart was the recipient of numerous
poswaras yesterday and to-day.
STAVING OFF T. R. NOMINATION.
FUNERAL OF JOHN RILEY
,e" r'
- -. j
t
Progressive Leaders Were Hard Put to It Was Held at St
to Hold Torrent Back.
ROOSEVELT NAMED
BY ACCLAMATION
BY PROGRESSIVES
Convention Refused to Take Roosevelt's
Suggestion of Henry Cabot Lodge
as Compromise Candidate.
Auditorium, Chicago, June 10. Chair
man Kohins cilled the Progressive con
vention to order at 10:41, and the dele
gates cheered when Robins announced:
We are going to do just what we came
to Chicago to do."
George W. Perkins wa recognized to
report the action of the conference com
mittee. He announced that the Republi
can conferees last night offered the name
f Hughes as a compromise candidate, but
at that time the Republican committee
was not unanimous, standing three for
Hughes and two against; but at a furthT
conference this morning the Republicans
were unanimous for Hughes.
Instructions to the delegates how to
make a nomination unanimous without
a roll-call were given hy Secretary Davis,
and it waa apparent that the nomination
would so be made.
A telegram from Roosevelt suezestina
Henry Cabot Lodge as a second choice to
Auditorium Hall, Chicago, June 10.
For hours i-esterday the lesders of the
Progressive convention staved off the
nomination of Roosevelt, and aftx- three
sessions that ran through the gamut of
emotions from livsteria to a calm, dis
passionate discussion of planks in the
platform the convention adjourned at
9:5h last night until thw morning.
It was only after repeated assurances
from the leaders that Colonel Roosevelt
himself desired that the nomination be
postponed and oratorv that plaved upon
their good nature that the delegations
swallowed their own convictions that th
nomination was the real and onlv bus
iness to be considered and consented to
quit the lull for the night.
For the West thenlelegate s tuat cheered
and li.-tened. Realizing that an out
break might be averted only by keeping
them in good humor the leaders recog
nized man after man in the hall, called
them to the platform and allowed them
to play on the crowd s good nature and
its sense of humor.
Before adjournment the driers tes were
told of the results of the first two ballots
at the Coliseum. They look comfort from
the vote for Mr. Koosrvelt and the mo
tion to end the session was unopposed.
James K. Garfield of (,'hio made the ad
journment motion and the delegates left
the hall just 12 hours after they had en
tered it in the morning.
Sylvester's Church In
$raniteville.
The funeral of John Rilev. whose
death occurred Wednesday in Granitu-
vine, was held yesterday morning at t)
o clock at St. Svlvesler'a clmmh In
Graniteville, Rev. Fr. Turcot officiating.
A large number of relatives and friends
were present and the service was very
impressive. The members of the quar
ryworkers' union accompanied the ldy
irom the house to the church, and many
representatives of the Wetmore & Morse
company, where Mr. Riley was employed.
were in attendance at the service. A
solo, Schubert's "Farewell," was rendered
by Miss Yvonne Morin, and a duet,
"Xearer, My God, to Thee," was sung
by Miss Morin and Charles Fernier.
Burial was in the Catholic cemetery in
this citv and the bearers were Henry
Turcot, Fred Amedy, John mid Henry
Dubie. Edward Relation and Wilford
Trudell.
Among the flowers contributed were
the following: Anchor, Wetmore &
Morse Quarry company; wreath, quar
ry men of Wetmore 4. Morse company;
carnations. Fred Boissonncau and fam
ily; lilacs, Mrs. (Jus Pelkey, Mr. and Mrs.
Fred Relation. Mrs. McKane, Mr. and
Mrs. Michael Pruneau.
IDA M. J. CARUSI
(Snauldina Second Honor Graduate)
HORSE RACING MEN MEET
An analvsis showing h-re the r,n. ""'tee Colby.
of Justice Huphes came from on the sec
ond ballot follows:
In all. Justice Hughe gained 75 ot
on the ecod ballot. He gained I in Al
abama. 2 in California. 1 in Oorgui. 1 in
Kentucky, i ta Louisiana. 2 in Maine,
in Massachusetts, - in Michigan, 4 ia
candidate was greeted with shouts of
"No." "No."
When Perkins eonrluded his report by
urging the convention to abide by Roose
velt's request and defer action until th
other convention has ped on the sug
gestion of Lodge a a compromise, the
delegate houted: "That's right; that's
right."
Hi platform was adopted wilnil roll
call, and Chairman Robin announi-ed it
was in order to proceed with the nomi
nation. Roosevelt wa .nominated bv arclams-
jtion. hiving been presented br Rain-
And Make Tentative Plans for Races In
. Few Weeks.
Officers were elected and plans for the
J 01 fi season on the turf were discussed
at the annual meeting of the Granite
City Trotting club, which was held in
the office of the E. L. Smith Co. Iat
evening with a Urge attendance of men
who are interested in the revival of
horse racing in Barre. W. D. Quimby of
Rston, president of the yuimby Con
fectionery Co., and . formerly a promi
nent figure in Washington county racing
circles, was nonored wun an election as
moderator of the meeting. Mr. Quim
by presided in a very capable manner
and afterward joined with other in re
galing the company with interesting
reminiscence of the old days when Barre
was one of the best racing circuits in
New England.
Donald Smith was re elected president
of the club for ltl and the other of
ficer are: Vice-president. Fred A.
Mavton; secretary, H. C. Inard;
j treasurer. Harry W. Britton. Althouch
no definit arrinr-ment were made it
Miss Haiel Laura R.!in, daughter of ! is expected that tentative plans will so
Mr. and Mrs. C. M. Rollins of FrenWi !shi themselves as to permit the hold-
street, and hmery .1. New hall of Orange ling of a race meet over the Aver stre, t
street were un'ted in marriage at 6 ! course imetime within a few weeks,
AV t k .. M.rinw at II- I . . . "
ARTILLERY DUELS
AT FOUR POINTS
ON VERDUN LINE
Violent Exchanges at Avocourt, Thiau
mont, and the Woods of Capitre and
Fumin Indicate Infantry At
tacks Soon.
Paris, June 10. Violent artillery fight-
offer'the Republicans as a compromise ' in(r ws in ProC"'" " Verdun front
Isst night in the vicinity of Avocourt.
Thiaumont and the woods of Capitre and
Fumin. There were no infantrv attack.
NEWHALL ROLLINS.
Marriage Took Place This Morning
Bapti.-t Parsonage.
at
among the graduates and undergraduates
at Spaulding. Weather conditions that
would have been wholly unfavorable to
outdoor exercises prevailed, but the rain
did not inveigh appreciably against the
attendance, for every seat in the houi5e
waB taken when the program. began.
Stage decorations used in the class day
exercises Thursday were preserved for
the graduation program, the class colors,
purple and gold, predominating in a dec
orative scheme that was altogether pleas
ins to the eve. Much interest in the
closing exercises of commencement week
centered around the introduction of a
graduation speaker whose contribution to
the annual events of Sptulding week in
Barre will not he forgotten right away.
The address of Professor Cluuncy Brew
ster Tinker, professor of English litera
ture at Yale university. Xev Haven.
Conn., on "Work and Leisure, was one
of the fluent discourses of its kind in a
long list of Spaulding commencements.
Seated on the stage with the seaker
of the evening were members of the Barre
school commission. Superintendent t. II.
White, Principal H. H. Jackson of the
high school, who presided, and Rev. J. W.
Harnett of the Congregational church.
Under the proceniiim, across which was
suspended the 191 ti cIhss motto,. "To
Thine Own Self He True," two of three
honor students gave readings and essays.
There Professor Tinker delivered his a'de
address and there the senior singers gave
enjoyable musical number.
Fifty-three graduates of Spudding this
year are divided among the four courses
as follows: Academic course 13. commer
cial course 12. English coure 13. teacher j
training course 13. There was one post-
graduate student in the teacher training
class. The roster follows:
Academic course
BECLAH V.AI GHAX GRANT
BERTEXA HOOKER
HARRIET RUBY LEWIS
WTXOXA EUNICE OXEII.L
ARTHUR AT A MORRISON ROS.S
JEAXXIE McKEXZIE STEPHEN
ELLA GLADYS TURNER
Soon after 8 o'clock the graduates-to
be marched dow n the center aile to spe
cially reserved seats near the stage. Each,
senior wore a yellow rose, the class color.
Miss Josephine Hovev, director of mwsio
in the city schools, played the march, ac
companied by the orchestra, snd after
the seniors had been seated, praver was
offered by Rev. Mr. Barnett. The pro
gram opened w ith music, the senior semi
chorus, tinder the directorship of Miss
Hovey, singing. "Night in May" (Silver).
Miss Blanche Rus-ell. assistant to the di
rector, played the accompaniment. Then .
followed a spirited reading. "The Sign of
the Cross" (Barrett), bv Miss Ida, .Mar
garet Josephine Carusi,. who was award
ed the second honor for scholastic stand
ing. Miss Carusi uddrpiscd herself to
the interpretation with vigorous stvlei
and was at, her best in parts that de
manded intense dramatic action. She
was heartily applauded.
Professor Tinker's Addrers. .
Professor Tinker's address was givem
at this point, the Yale pedagogue heinz
introduced in a pleasing fashion by Prin
cipal Jackson. F'rom'the outset the' au
dience accorded the speaker its rapt at
tention and not for a moment did he fail
to impress his hearers, students and all,
with the sincerity of his message.
In an address unique for its very
thought. Professor Tinker occupied ' a,
good deal less time than has been allotted
to and used by-speakers in the past. His
topic. "Work and Leisure," may be said
to have had its surprising conclusions,
but that his words must have left a deep
impression cannot be gainsaid. In a,
gently sitirical tone, the sjieaker be
littled the perennial commencement cari- .
cature of the young graduate before and
after receiving his diploma. Instead of
the commonly accepted impression creat
ed by the June cartoon. Professor Tinker
said that the graduate must make his
own place in the world, there is a whole
truth that the world is waiting with a,
place for everyone. "Man works that ha
may rest." might have been the speak
er's text and the gosel he preached was
(he gospel of worth-while leisure.
He decried the present-day American
passion for work and dwelt, now humor-ou-sly
and then seriously on some of the)
tendencies of the time?. The American
disposition is to weigh and to measure.
Too often the dollar sign is the standi rd,
and after all. he went on. how many of
the best things there are that can't bs
measured by money. It may be said
that the uselesr things are the best, in
sofar as some of the forces that appar
ently lave no phee in a more sordid
scheme things cannot lie old for mon-
MAV1S ( LAKE BABNETT
MARY BISHOP
RACHAEL ADELINE DIX
WEI.THA RUTH GLYSNOX
JOHX I. F.HAN E JORDAN
LORAIN E HESTER ( LA IKE LORAN- .rs that he may
WALTER THOMAS MrllUGO
CYRIL CORNELIUS MARRloX
ELIZABETH M RILI.A sKIVNEK
ELIZABETH ANNE STEPHEN
DONALD W1NMFRKD MUTH
MILDRED MAE STOW K
STANLEY JOHN TAME.
English course ,
IMIDRrilHtZri. RITI S I
KATHLEEN ANN A !)?. iRA P.ROW N
Mother love, patriotism, regard for
I church and school cennot lie coined, can
mt l translated into dollais and lent.
Tlie real problem confront'ng the your?
men and women of to-day is how be'-t C
use t'eir leiure.
There is scholarship, the speaker wenfc
on. which can be attained in part only
through leisure. P-of. Tinker expla ined bv
lucid comparison the o'Vue of the scholar
and that of the stm'ent. Where tho
scholar laliors only tht be may in-re.e
i his store of knw!cdse. tie tudent piir-
R00SEVELT SUGGESTED LODGE. '
son? cn Franklin street, the cfTi, iating
'lergvman being L"cv. Brt J lehich.
psf..r of the Baptist church. Thev were
unattended. Alter
The Montpelier grand list for l!i is
.S.7I.!. as compared with ?7.7:N fil j
in 11 S. I he in-reae m i, . .on ,
wedding trip they I stni. ti'in of new busine blocks and U
TaJegrarbH ta ProcresKres ia Favor of '" r'tun,to ,?,,r"' ;H'; th rrom residence, while there also an ii-
. jMrrn-n & tllearv. rsotn
yier Bay. Jane 1" K"oeve:t in aL-rn,,,
tLccwim mr sr sn"" s ,'HirL'
UlegTaiB a,r.t thie morning to the Fro-J t he rit j and have nuny frcn .
the bride ndjt'ie report from the larre st's l
ie of t" vile. to nt Heatoti ettat-.
There were II more K'.!.
EYEtN M RT1 E Hit. BEE
FORREST FRANCIS fAKI'.OLL
PATRICK .losEPH HALE
LKKToN RAYMOND -tf'N KINS
l inn NO FRANCIS IjOKAVi.FR
ALEXANDER ntAIFf. vi mwoV
.'iHN I Fo ARD D I.!.A"
lO LAND ACsTlN" PARK'S
ADELBFRT M',1 Kl) riER-
(AMI PAP.MFNTM; s-i kvi.I E
WALTER i.KoRi.k TO.MUNSi'X
Tfavifcer trsming cour'e
attnai a desire I er!.
! For evanitle cite the d!lm to bi
di'trih'tted to "rradwstcs this June.
I With leisure i-oire n"t the opportunity
j f"r s ho!srliip alone, but the opportu
nity tk now- art. One niy know ri-'i
ps:nt!T. come ti arprerjate the l-et
rrisic xnd cultivate hitherto undevel-!oi-(i
oe for scu'ptur". Oiiotini Ism"
I ?!ie!l l.op s ii int:uct'r t Har
vard. Professor 1 ir.k.r "-aid thst the fi
rri u po t once ssj.i. - m proud t- -
: t -ow Ice tht I hse never taught rry
.;,isrps anvthins i:s;il." "Pie fTpt'1
ncnn; ot the t4fnint IwflmH p
rrcr. "Hen ore r-ts that Pro'e., r
(!. "!l rej-mei t'it hi r'wi could b
'turned to N-tter account thsn the mr
I i-r i'-re of knn !eji that ctiH b
!trm-lilH 'nto money.
j comt l-te thr tr n tv of aitntr
(tht miy i-ew itS fi"jre. the fr-Vr
(tctitinuel on -gvth rff.l
