ij ' r 0 -TiSi .TflBSMjteL ?Z1YY IT SHINES FOR ALL
mheit temperature yesterday, go; lowest, 67. B. HUU09BKlE9N&wHlin ..sagiW I
Detailed weather, malt and marine reports on page 10. B I ; MUWfcM'f5BSjSpBCjrr
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 357.
NEW .YORK, TUESDAY, AUGUST 22, 1916. Copyright, 1!1, by fne Aim i'rfnllr.y mid I'libftoMnj; Asjocfoffon
ONE CENT )
KUeishere
TWO CKNT.S.
i I I
TT
BULGARSDRIVEN
BACK IN GREAT
BALKAN ATTACK
Storm Heights of Kikuniz;
Xotv in Terrific Battle
Near Banitza.
FIGHTING F1EKCELY
FOR LOST POSITION
French anil British Cross
Struma on Bight "Wing
ami Attaek Teutons.
ITALIAN TROOPS ABE
LANDED AT SALON1CA
Will Face Germans for
First Time Declaration
of War Expected.
Paris, Aug. 21. Terrific pounding of
the main Bulgar positions by the big
suns of the Allies preparatory to nn
Infantry assault on the centre of the
150 mile Balkan front is announced by
the French War Office to-night.
The official report, which makes the
definite stntement that n general of
fensive has been launched In the Bal
kans, says fierce fighting Is going on
st both ends of the battle line.
The rtorganlied Serbian army
tormed the first line Bulgarian
trenches on the heights of Klkurus.
on the extreme left wing, und tho
Serbs arc now fighting tooth nnd nail
with Bulgarian troops near Banltra,
which the .Serbs abandoned.
French und British troops have
crossed the Struma on tho right wins
and arc attacking a strong Bulgarian
position lutween Demlrhiasar and
6trrs.
Violent Artillery Attacks.
T.ie ot!lcl.l statement of the War
Office to-titght says:
On Augutt 20 the allied forces at
$slonlra took the offensive on the en
tire front. On the right wins the
Anglo-French forces have crossed the
Struma and arc attacking tho enemy
on the Kavakll-Knlendra-Tnpal.iva
front (northwest of Sen). They are
In contact with a position strongly
held by the enemy at Barakll (flvo
miles southeast of Demli-Hlssar).
In tho centie violent artillery nc
tions are taking place on tiie southern
slopes of '.ho Veles Mountain and on
both bank of the Vardar. In the re
gion extending from Lake Dolran to
the Wirdir the Allies have consoli
dated posltlonu they cciuvled n the
preceding day.
Terrlflc Fight on llelht.
On the left wing. In the mountainous
region between the Herman and Slog
lenltsa elvers the Serbian troops have
t.Ufti the ttist line trenches of tho
llulgarlans on the heights of Klkurus
and have occupied tho fotts of Kal
nukrelar. (n the extreme left, after Inflicting
r.iavy losses on tho Bulgarians de
buu hlng from Fiorina and lUnltza,
the Serbians had to abandon this latter
jihe and hnvo established themselves
on heights situated to tho cast. The
battle Is continuing.
Italhn troops landed to-dny nt Salo
r..ci and arc to fight with the British,
Trench and Serbians against the Ger
mans, Austrian. Bulgarians nnd Turks.
This w.ll finally bring Italian troops face
U face with German troops on the bat
tlefield, and is likely to cause a declara
tion of war between Germany a nil Italy.
i ertalnly it will bring about a state or
ar.
The entry of the Italians Into the big
cffeniHe shows how Important It Is cou
ntered by the Allies. The forces al
iady at Salonlra were estimated nt 850,
M. anil the Italians, with their surplus
of men. can send probably 100,000 nt
l-ai, It had been believed that Italy
keeping out of the Balkans been use
liftman tioops are there, anil German
strategy (i running the campaign, and
she li not at war with Germany.
Rulgnra Threaten Kavala,
Kavala, ,aht of the allied line; is se.
rlously threatened by the column of
Il'Jlfarlan hoops that crossed the lllver
Mesta and Is advancing upon the city,
This column has occupied Herman)!,
only -vn tulles from Kavala, and Is en
"'JnterltiK nu opposition as there are no
all1"! troops there,
The city of Kavala, a seaport upon the
.laean and a station on the railroad to
vlrlarnil mid Constantinople, would
a valuable base for the Bulgarians.
" also probably Intend to use It as a
J"" for an attack upon the allied right
r.anK.
MuMi incitement has been caused In
reeee 1, the advance of the Bulgarians
into their territory In the direction of
vilii, nttd In other places. King
OMtarititif, the general staff and the
wiinet have been In hurriedly called
Wirreri. e.t despatches from Athens say.
ine t!re troops nt Kavala' and other
JWitH have withdrawn before the Bul
la", offering no resistance.
i-rench stHff officers say that the at
n,t of the llulgarlans to counter at
. , ;'"'Rle up the allied offensive
irore It not going has failed com
Wely Th. taking of Fiorina and
4n"sa from the Serbians was no feat
, "ula". they say, for these
wtams had not been consolidated and
JMnt" ""y t0 force a cer,a,n retlre-
1o Innnenrr rtamanlaf
.hTT P'"111""" 't of the Struma and
in, Ki"-al wero not held by the
V", Where the Bulgars attacked the
Aifu d,:f',"-s of Snlonlca, which the
k"v.' 'ww up after their retreat from
,Bt, they accomplished nothing. The
Continued on Second Pag.
I
ADMITS LEASE OF
PIER FOR BREMEN
Cnptnln of Doutschlitntl's Con
voy Calls Now London
Itoliort True.
Noiirot.K, Va Aug. 21. Capt. Culllson
of the tug Hansa, formerly the Thomas
V. Tlmmlns, said to-day It was true that
the Kastern Forwarding Company, to
which the cargo of the German subma
rlne merchantman Deutsehland was as
signed, has leased a pier at New London,
t-onn. Previous teports that such a step
had been taken In anticipation of the
arrival there of the Bremen, sister ship
of the Deutschland. have been denied.
It was reported In German circles
here to-day that the Hansa. which con
voyed the Deutsehland In American
waters, would go to New London before
the end of the month and that much of
the movable property of the Eastern
Forwarding Company would be taken
there from Baltimore. According to this
story the Bremen left a German port
August 14.
TORRID SPELL BACK,
SEVEN PROSTRATED
Mercury Up to 00 Dojrreos
With a Light Hrceze Xot
Much Humidity.
A torrid spell came drifting back Into
the city yesterday, causing the prostra
tion of six persons. This time the close
feeling In the nlr could not be blamed on
the humidity, for the degree of saturation
, never went higher than 77, and toward
midnight It began sliding downward
rapidly.
, The mercury In the thermometer began
to rise early and went up to 90 degrees
leforc It stopped. Little relief was
brought by breeies. Such wind as was
stirring early In the day had a velocity
of only three miles nn hoif, but by even
ing It had grown brisker. The forecaster
says that the same warm streak will be
continued to-day.
Some excitement was caused at the
Queensboro Bridge plasa when James
F. Grlswold, 27, a salesman, living at C 1 9
West Sixty-seventh street, collapsed from
the heat. Me was taken to St. John's
Hospital In an unconscious condition.
I Kdward Perry. iH West Thlrty-sev-enth
street, wa overcome In the subway.
' He was taken to the Knickerbocker Hos-
. pit&l.
MUNITIONS PLANT EXPLODES.
Hrltlsh I'ear Morions Loss of Life In
j Itlnat In Yorkshire Factory.
London, Aug. 51. Ssrlous loss of Ufa
1 Is feared as the result of an explosion
In a munition plan: tn Torkshlre this
! afternoon, says an official statement
Issued this evening.
i
Tho statement says:
"An explosion took place this after
noon at u munition factory In Yorkshire.
1'ull details are not at hand, but the loss
of life appears to be serious. Assistance
has been sent from neighboring towns.
"A further statement will be Issued as
soon as possible."
LIFE TERMER FLEES SING SENG.
r Urpnty Warden .Suspends
Several Keepers on Initial Bar.
OsstN'i.va, N. V., Aug. 21. Calvin Der
rick, newly appointed deputy warden at
Sing Sing, arrived at the prison nnd took
up his duties to-dny. Mr. Derrick was
associated with Thomas Mott Osborne
many years alio In the management of
the George Junior Republic, nnd since
then has achieved much In prison reform
work. He came here from the Preston
School of Correction In California.
On Mr. Derrick's first day one first
degree murderer escaped from a berry
plcklng party and several prison keepers
were suspended for having allowed other
men to escape recently. The murderer
Is Kmll Totteman, whose sentence was
commuted twelve years ago to life Im
prisonment. The suspensions were of the
keeper In chnrse of the two men who
escaped from the paint shop last
Wednesday and of the keepers In charge
I of the road gangs from which two es
caped. Another keeper was dismissed
for disobeying orders.
HUGHES'S LIFE THREATENED.
Letter Writer Warns II Im He Will
.Not Ilearh White House.
LoKO Beach Cal., Aug. 21. The
I.ong Beach police made public to-dny
a letter said to have bcn received by
the secretary of Charles U Hughes yes
terday In whldh the life of the Republi
can candidate for the Presidency Is
threatened. According to the postmark
the letter was mailed In Los Angeles
late Saturday. It rends:
"We warned you before you left the
Supreme bench thnt you neer would sit
In the Presidential chair. We will get
you. Watcli out ut Santa Ana."
,The letter Is unsigned. Mr. Hughes Is
to pass through Sutita Ana on his way
from San Diego to Los Angeles,
FOUNDLINGS IN HUERTA HOUSE.
C'arransn Also Begin Rehabilita
tion of Kdnrattonnl ftyatrm.
Wasiiinotos, Aug, 21. One of the
suburban residences built In Mexico city
by Gen. Iuerta with public funds has
been converted by Gen. Carranxa Into a
f nindllng hospital, the de facto Govern
' ment advised the Mexican Kmbassy to
dav. Information wns given also of the
steps being taken tn rehabilitate the re
public's educational system. Strict en
forcement of the compulsory education
law has been ordered and all students
called Into the army before completing
their professional studies have been
withdrawn so they might reenter colllege.
BRUSSELS FINE REMITTED.
novernor-Genrral Hlaslnar Calls OS
artO.oao Fete Day Levy.
Austchoam, via London, Aug. 21,
The Kcho Beige says It learns that Gen.
von Biasing, Governor-General of the
occupied portions of Belgium, has re
mitted the fine of 1260,000 Imposed on
the city of Brussels for celebrating the
Belgian national fete day July 21.
Tho municipality rsfussd to pay ths
fin on the ground-that It. was IllsfaL
DEATH RATE SAME,
DESPITE EPIDEMIC
Mortality Statistics for SU
Weeks Virtually U ne limited
From Lnst Year.
DIAGNOSES
SUSPECTED
This Is Indicated liy Marked
Decrease in Usual Chil
dren's Ailments.
In spite of the l,r,0 deaths for hlch
I Infantile paralysis hss been blamed the
death rate for the first thirty-four weeks
of this year has been almost precisely
' the same as that of the tame period last
I year.
The Increase has been at the rate of
four deaths to each 100.000 of popula
tion. This year so far tho rate from all
causes lias been 11.37 per thousand of'
population; last ear for this period
It was 14.33.
In every age group except that of chil
dren under 5 jearj there has been n
decrease In the death rate. Health om
mlssloncr Kmerson In commenting upon
the situation yesterday said that this
proves that the general sanitary condi
tion of the city Is better this ear than
last, but there are those who believe
that the fact that the death rate remain
practically stationary Is because many
deaths of children are ascribed to In
fantile paralysis, which In normal jears
would be otherwise diagnosed.
The fact that there Is a decrease In
the rate of deaths from dlarrlnr.il dis
eases lends strenath to the belief that i
some deaths which would nunnally be i
charged to these diseases have been
charged this jcar to Infantile paralysis.
Hlar Drop In vr Cases. , t
Not since July It has the numlwr of
esses reported to the Health Department
been so low n It was yesterday, when
ninety-two cases were reported from the
flvo boroughs. The decided drop yester
day Is attributed by Health Commis
sioner Emerson more to the continued
fall of the epidemic than to the failure of
physicians away on eek end trips to re
port cases.
Manhattan had the l-lghest tiumlier of1
new cases of all the boroughs, having
thirty-two In all. Brooklyn came next
with twenty. nine, then Ouevns with twenty-one,
The Bronx wltTi nine and ltlch
mond with one. Only In Queens did tk.e
.number of caaes exceed the number re
ported on tho previous day.
The number of deaths, however. In
creased from twenty on Sunday to thirty-
i three yesterday, the principal Jump be-
, Ing In Manhattan, where thero wero
seventeen yesterday as compared with
. nine the day before.
Cltlsvns Aid Serum fiathrrlnar.
A committee of cltlzins beaded bv
Lew-Is Delafleld, Jr., I being organised
to aid the Health Department In th;
work of obtainliii; Immune blood erum
from person who have had Infantile
paralysis. Mr. Delafleld said last night
that letters will be sent by the commit,
tec to persons who have had the disease
urrlng them to par', with a little of their
b.ood to save tho thousands of children
In the hospitals from death or perma
nent disability. The committee will
semi phyalcltttis provided by tho Board
of Health to the houes of those willing
to give blood. The Htalth Department
lsued an appeal yesterday to the hun
dreds who have had the disease to give
some of their blood. The blood Is col
lecteil from the vdn near the ilhnw by
a hollow needle attached to u syringe.
Thirty-eight ounces of blood were ob
tained ycaterday nt the Wlllard Parker
Hospital from persons who have had th--disease.
Among those who save b'.oo.i
were V. V. Vimdewater of 2r.;(! Ilroail.
way. who gae eleven ounces. Miss Win
ifred Carroll of Greenwich, Conn., yew n
ounces; AIIjh Sophie Jurist of 1903 six-ty-slxth
street, Brooklyn, six ounces, and
M. A. Stecher of 1410 Kastern Parkway,
eight ounces.
A ward for the treatment of children
recovering fiom Infantile paralysis hn
been opened nt the Montcflore Home nnd
Hopltnl.
The fund to buy braces nnd crutches
for convalescent paralysis victims yes
terday reached the sum of JH.iJt.tj.
Cornelius Illlss. Jr.. president of the
New York Association for Improving the
Condition of the Poor, yesterday Issued
an appeal for a special fund of JI0.000
wun wnicn io exienii me fresh air sea
son, a month longer than usual for the
benefit of mothers anil children who
have been quarantined In crowded tene
ments a a result of the epidemic. ,
Serum from the blood of David ilaynor, 1
a seventeen-year-old f.irm hand who hud
tho disease when a baby, speedily cured
William Kemp. J, the son of John Kemp,
a farmer of Rocky Hill road, Buyslde,
Queens, uccurdlng to the child mother,
The child was taken ill u week hko, i
but recovered rapidly after the Injcc-1
Hon of the scrum Into his ilnal column, i
He suffered no deformity. j
Disease Gains Up State,
Although In the city of .New Ycik the'
Tldemlc seems to be losing Its force, '
In the remainder of the Stale pew
records continue to be iniide. For the
twenty-four hours ending at 5 p, M .
yesterday, 101 cases were reported to
the State Health Department outside of I
New York city. Many of these, how-1
ever, should hnvo been leported on Sun
day, so the health officials are not seri
ously alarmed, although tho number Is
large, even for two days. Outside of I
the city 1.422 cases have been reported
and 1S7 deaths h.io resulted. Theie
were five deaths yesterday at Wuveriv. 1
White Plains, Mlnevllle, Oyster Bay and
Oneida.
I Tlin nw ivlinu it'Mr,. illu , 11..., a.i
follows! White Plains, 7; Oyster Bay,
Ci Bay Shore nnd Kreeport, 4 nch; Mn
mnroneck, Montgomery. Florida and
North Turrytown, 3 each; I'tlca, Yon
brM Ilemnatcad. Huutlncton West sin.
vllle, Pine Hollow, Lynbrook, Hnyvllle,
Iloslyn, Mnnhassct and llrookhuven, 2
each! Huevelton, Poichester, Gieen
burgh, Mlnavllle, Columbliivllle, Cannjo
harle, Ithaca, Oneida, Hudson, Croglinn,
live. Flshklll, llortons, Colonic. Kast.
wood, New Roclielle, Mount Vernon, New
Plats, Knllsburgh. Huffern, Blooming
Grove, Rochester (I'luter county), Mid
dletown, Liberty, Sands Point, Hock
vlllo Centre, in wood, Kust Hampton,
Rlveineail, sup, 'increase, vtctoiy, lis
I slnlng. New Haven, Coxsackle, YVInd
Ihom. Putnam Valley, South Huntington,
Itaiiyiuo. ,.tiMiri,,,Miri, ..i-nr ITKlsor.
Konda, Sayvllle, lllcksvllle, Kast Noi
wlch and South Hempstead, 1 each,
The Isolation hospital at New Roclielle,
a section of which was erected n week
before the first case of Infantllo paraly
se was reported In the city, will now
Continued on i-'ourfn Page.
TEUTONS THREATEN TO SEND
AN ULTIMATUM TO RUMANIA
Russian March Through "Neutral" Country Would Be
Cause for War, Is Hint From Berlin Crisis With
Germanic Alliance Thought Near.
Amstrrpam, via 1 Pinion, Aug. II. , (uence.s tn ltumanln of granting pcrtnls
The Utimanlan situation Is again taking I ?l"" to the Itussl.ms to march through
ihn u,.,n . i.. i.. ..,.. .. Ituinatilsn territory. Toward us Itti-
he leading placo In the war news. mnl(l m)i( ml (( . hff
Hespatches from Berlin and from lluch- fr t,.,t (HI0 ,y wtn irugglng
nrest, via Berlin, describe the relations shouldns sbo will place before us a fait
between Rumania and the Germanic Al
Ilea as extremely serious. Wolff's serl
official bureau In Berlin send" despatches
hinting that an Austru-Germati ulti
matum Is In preparation.
The Krcuztrit ng states thnt the nego
tiations which took place at Bucharest
at tho week end between the Husslnn
military ttarli4 and the Itumalilan Secre
tary of War must be considered as proof I
that Humanla has joined the Kntentc.
Wonld Be ( an Hrlll.
"It Is vurposcd." says this newspaper,
"that idans for a Russian march through
Itumimian territory were discussed. Of 1 -arnbl.i, the iMipulutlon of which Is
course. Germany woulil regard any such i largely Rumanian, In return for Itu
arrangement us n casus belli." i mania's cooperation In the war.
.Major Morabt savs In the Tnocblnlf : . Bessarabia m ls.nno square miles III
"German mid Austrian Ministers at
Bucharest have pointed out the consc-1
$220,000 ALLOWED
FOR ENO WILL FIGHTi
Estate Ordered to Pnv .S1S0,-1
I
1 J5 to Lawyers for Colum
bia and Executors.
An Idea of the cost of the recent con-1
teft over the estate of the late Amos F.
lino was furnished yesterday when Sur
rotate Cohal.in !gnel a ileciee directing
the estate to pay to tho attorneys for
one side 1 3o.l I .,. This sum goes to the
lawyers for the executors nnd for Colum
bia I'nlverslty, to which was willed the
residue of the $12,000,000 etate but
which lost this In the contest brought by
relatives of the decedent.
Surrogate Cohnlan abo allowed
112,000 to Columbia University and $20,
2Su to the successful relatives for alien
ists' fees and $25,000 tn each of the
special guardians appearing In the c.e
In bchntf of minor contestants. These
guardians nre J. Robert Rubin and
I i.mlel J. Mooney.
No allowances were made for the at
torneys of the sucesful contestants, but
the expenses of these contestants were
ordered paid. They aggregate about
IS.00O. Besides the expenses provl led
for yesterday, amounting In nil to more
than $220,000. the estate has already
Wen charged with the costs to both aides
of the stenographer's minutes, amount
ing to $19,000, and 1504 for each juror, i
which Is at the rate of $12 a day forj
lony-iwo any.
The fees allowed yesterday were:
To Austen G. Fox, trial counsel for
Columbia University. $12,500.
To Wallace MacFarlane. private coun
sel for Columbia, $7,500.
;io miner, m.iiut ana orum in ,-wa-i
ti.Kii. associated with the proponents,
$30,000.
To Henry De Forest H.iMwIu, attorney
nf record for Lucius II. Beers and Will
iam II. Mitchell, executors namid In the
will which was set aside, $50,000, and
n additional J30.11J.?3 for disburse
mints. The costs of the relatives were divided j
us follows: William P. lino, brothtr.
$1,."i33; Antoinette 11. Wood, sister, and
Florence l (Iraves and Mary P. lino,
nieces, $2,494 ; Prof. Henry Lane lino,
nephew, $1,3:2; Clifford and Amos R. II
linchot'. nephews, nnd their sister. Lady ,
Antoinette Johnstone. $2.31.
Ilmry De Forest Baldwin, who super-1
vised the preparation of the cafe of Co-
lumbla and tho executors, says In hi- 1
affidavit he paid a private detective .
ngency $531 for Investigating tho Jury
panel,
A gteat expense was gathering wit
nees. One of thim was brought from
the trenches In Uurope, where he was
serving France as a soldier, another
came from Venezuela; tieorg; Foster
Peabndy came from Lake tleorge and
refused to accept any fee, and Chauneey
Olco'.t got $1 for subpo'iia fees and $10
for travelling xpenses.
TWO KILLED AT DU PONT PLANT.
Kiplnalnti Occur at the llnninlte
Work nt llnrkstlalr, Del.
Asm. AND, Del., Aug. 21. Two men
weie killed and the dynamite plant of
the du Pont wniks nt Barksdale was
destroyed as the result nf an explosion
to-day, The Barksdale plant has been
In operation twelve years
fr.tlltli evnloslnn chiisIiik
Tnts is mo
loss of life
and the first In eight years. merit Is conceded, save by a faction
The plant has been heavily policed . beaded by Senator W. Murray Crane,
since the Kuropenu war began. K.ii-.'lov. Whitman has been urging Mr.
ployecs are admitted only by photo- Hitchcock lately.
mnph. About 1,5011 men are employed.' Mr. Hitchcock Is to have a place on
The loss Is ubout J2.000.
Mix More Du Pont Men llnrt.
New RnttNswicu, N. J Aug. 21 srw I'1" l'"l"rtant n part the members of
men were seriously and perhaps fatally,"".'' ''ommlttee will play In the cam
Injured this afternoon when nn explosion ' Vafn-
took place In the shaker room of the du Beports this committee when np-
l'oni iiowuer vvors.s ai vnneret.
... ' .... -
i lie cxptosiun n un preceueu oy- a file
In the small frame building In which the
men were working. The tire ipilckly
reached the powder and before the men
could rush out they werevery severely
burned. The plant Are corps extin
guished the blaze.
118 SUICIDES IN MUNICH.
yoo Children Reported Abandoned
In Rhine Province.
.v'peri'iif Vablt ln$inlch foTiis Sis.
LoNiiov, Aug. 21. Tho Otitlu .NVicj
col tesfiondent at Geneva says that ac
cording to a Munich despatch, during tho
Inst week US suicides, mostly of women,
have oecurtcil In Germany.
one niollier, accompanied by three
children, shot herself before the gales
of the palace at Munich, A placard
pinned to her breast read, "Voir.- Maj
esty, feed my children; I cannot,"
Two hundred chlldien have been aban
doned In tho Rhine provinces nnd thlity
two lu Berlin.
GERMANY CALLS BOYS OF 17.
tin of 1fll Itrporled to Have
Ileen Summoned,
Paris, Aug. 21, The Inlmntlgmnt
publishes under reserve a despatch from
Lausanne to the effect that Germany has
ordered all boys of seventeen to report
Immediately to recruiting bureaus.
This class' In normal years would be
called to the colors In 1919,
accompli for which wo have not been
nble to take proper counter measures."
(HlO.noo Troop Mobilised.
Humanla has had between 3.10.000 and
600,000 troops mobilized for nearly a
year and her army l reputed to be one
of tlm best equipped and trained In
Hit rope.
ltumanln would be In a position to
deal a iHiwerful blow nt Bulgaria frnm
the north In conjunction with the Allies') nil occasions, le.I to-day to nn Insurrec
drlve from the south. It has been gen- if0 .....i h,.,.. , . ,, , ,. .. .
cr.illy understood that Itussla has been , '" 1 " lx"-v f,imll ro"' ",c h'"-
willing to concede the province of Be
extent ami has
I.OOO.OOu.
population of Hourly
T.R. IS TO PUT HIS
PUNCH IN CAMPAIGN
Belief Prevails He Will Attack
. .. f iff
"11,1 pill'lHIICS III JUS
Maine Address.
With Charles li. Hughes about to '
snlng Kust tiK.iln from the Pacific coast!
two ImjKMtnnt matters continued yes-'
terday to absorb the attention of Bepub-
Ilcaris Intent Uon following the
palgn.
One of these Is the forthcoming speech I
of Col. Roosevelt at Lewlston, Me., on
August 31. The oilier Is the advisory -committee
to be appointed by Chairman
Wllleox. which apparently has revived
old fartlor.si illffeierccs. Roth matters
are to hato an Important Influence In
shaping the course of the campaign.
.Mr. Roosevelt's Lewlston speech is to
be his first utterance In the campaign
from the platform. His activity thus far
has been confined to a few lettc-s urging
Progressives to support Mr. Hughes, ami
he has been exceedingly chary of anv-
thlng like an Interview. This Is why his
speech Is being awaited with so much In
terest, ir not trepidation, by some Re
publicans. "Hyphenate" m. i,oe.
Col. Roosevelt Is said to feel that more
punch should be put Into the campaign.
Recently he has been reported a becoming
rather restless over what he Is said to le
gard as the lack of emphasis placed upon
some of his faor!te Issues, chief among
t ,em nr. nf ,n,.. n,, ,.r
CMled "by phennte," a term which, by
the way. .Mr. Hughes has not made us
of us yet.
What some Republicans are wondering
now is whether Mr. Itnosetelt Is to take
the opportunity nf the LcwiMon speech
"to break louse." us fhet' nut It I,
! he would have something vlenrnns in
say with respect to this Issue are met
with silence at Oyster Ray, where the
Colonel has been working on his Lewis
ton speech. Hut It would be hard to con-
ince
Mime of the politic ans that the
jampalsn will lack nny punch after this
"I'h "f "' Colonel's.
""' "eiieve mat the Colonel Is going
to talk on this occasion about foreign
"""i citizens unil their allegiance with
out mincing words and that this speeih.
by focussing attention on cettaln Ros
veltlan Issues, may effect n drastic
change In the campaign, regardless nf
whatever plans the managers have had
for It. i
Hitchcock Cause Trouble.
Chairman Wlllcos continued yesterday!
Ids efforts tn Iron out the situation which
has arisen over the new advisory com
mittee. This committee was to hao
been announced yesterday, but this was
again postponed. There were Indications
that Mr, Wllleox was still having ttouble
with Its makeup, the result of the pull
ing and hauling he lias been subjected to
1 by rival camtis.
I Much of this seems to centre around
Frank II, Hitchcock, The tatter's en
trance into the compalgn Is resented by
some and welcomed by others. This Is
largely a reflex from former campaigns.
i let on every nana .Mr. Hitchcock's ex-
j traordlnary ability In campaign manage-
. mc commmce. pome or trie other selei
giving trouble, also the ntiestlon of Just
i r,,..-..- Hn u), u i,,, ,,,,,
lint ttieet with ...oi ,1 e... 1 1 t
not meet with confirmation from Mr.
Wllleox, "We have completed our work
ing organization," he said, "ond do not
ixpect to make any additions."
Although refusing to go further than
this, the national chairman seemed
' anxious to give the Impression that the
committee would not be n "steering"
l committee, but would bo merely for the
, puriH.se of giving him advice when he
asked for it.
Ilert Sees Wllleox.
A, T. Ilert. the new Chicago manager.
spent a large part of the day with Mr,
Wllleox, It was said Mr. Hert's visit
had tu do with the advisory committee
situation, though neither Mr. Wllleox
nor Mr, Ilert would discuss It.
Mr. Ilert Is a man of few words
"Thn Republican situation In the West
looks encouraging." That .was all that I
was forthcoming from him on the gen.,
eral, situation. When told Democrats
were now claiming South Dakota he said,
"Wo think differently." RepublUMiis
about headquarters referred to Mr, Ilert
yesterday sm "a live wire."
After talking with Mr. Her!. Mr. Wlll
eox emphasised the fact again that the
committee would tako no part In the
California Senatorial contest, nnd the
same was true of this State, There was
undoubtedly, he slid, a bitter light In
Cullfnrnlu, but they went all for
Hughes, "In California, us In all other
States," said Mr. Wllleox, "wo "have
asked that the Progressives huvo reprc-,
scuiaiion on commmees
arranging
Continued on fourth
Page,
TEN SENATORS BOLT
DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS
Hefnsintr to He Hound They
Demand Action on Im
migration Dill.
STONE DAPPED AS SCOLD
Executive Session Fulls to Shut
Off Party llehels and Ie
hate (Joes On To-day.
Wasiii.viito.v. Aug. 21. Iteentment
felt by many Democratic Senators at
Senator Stone's attempts to be a little
Csar, admnnlxhlri? and scolding them on
nte. Ten Senators Ignored the nnrlv cnu
cus nnd the steering committee and
, voted with tho Republicans to take up
j the Immlgtiitlon bill,
III the delutn after the vote Senator
Stone attacked the ten Senators severely.
In reply Senator Hnrdwlcx said Senator
, Stone's lectures In the Satiate were no
longer regarded as "terrifying." but are
"becoming Jokes." Ho would not be
bound by the party caucus, he said, for
no caucus should bind n Senator against
his solemn promises to his constituents.
Senator Stone set himself up as the
Democratic part-, snld Senator Smith
(South Carolina), and uny Senator who
disagreed with him was subiect to disci-
' lltllm U.n.,.,. - 1 1 1 . 1 .....
ator Smith's stipport with a tart com-
1 mnut .in .,IA ,.fr , .1 1 i ...i...
t . .... ,,,, vi uirgirrniK will
I or questioning the steering committee.'
i ""Hue vi uimBi rruiK nun
! nnd this roused Senator Martin of Vlr
j glnla, a member of the steerlns commit
I tee, particularly nt being referred to as
i of the "little coterie" who told Senator.
! what to do.
Imperil rterenue It III.
Feeling among the
Democrats ran
were Intimations
i very high, nnd there
that the war revenue bill had stormy
sailing ahead and that the date of ad
journment was far In the future.
The vote to take up the Immigration
bill was 27 to 24. The ten Democratic
Senators who rebelled nnd oted with
seventeen Republic-atiM to take up the
bill were Ashuret. llcckham, Chamber
lain. Culberson. Hntdwlck, Lane, Myers,
Overman, Smith (South Carolina) and
Vnrdaman. Debate on the bill In the
morning session was choked off by a
motion to go Into executive session.
Senator Smith at the conclusion of
the executive session again moved to
proceed to the consideration of the Im
migration bill. Tho Senate Democratic
leaders, who were taken by surprise by
the audacious move of the Insurrectos
earlier In the day, were astounded by
the second proposal.
The effect of the motion made and
, adopted earlier In ths day affected the
I parliamentary situation only to the ex
I tent of the morning hour, but coming
after 2 o'clock Its adoption would have
displaced the war revenue bill for the
entire day. upjet party calculations, rif
fled the steering committee and nullified
the caucus action. The motion has not
et come to a vote. A debate started
which lasted until nearly 6 o'clock.
ItoonilliiK t'l the Inanrrecto.
The Smith motion may not carry to
morrow because the Democratic leaders
were fry active to-night whipping Into
line the Insurrectos.
In the debate to-d.iv Senator Stone
arraigned the Democratic Senators who
li.nl voted to take up the Immigration
bill, asertlng that they had "turned the
lontrol of legislation ocr to the Re
publicans," Senator Penrose told Mr. Stone the
bill could bo disposed of In a very brief
time If he would stop talking nnd con
sent to a vote. Mr. Stone retorted that
there would be no vote.
"Is the Senator fioin Missouri afraid
tho passage of the bill would embarrass
the President In the campaign;" de
manded Mr. Penrose.
",o," teplled Mr. Stone, "If the Sen
ator will possess his soul In penis, he
will learn why I am opposed to voting
upon It."
t'aueii la Klnii. the Ansvter.
The only explanation Mr. Penrose was
nblo to obtain was that the Democratic
party In the Senate In caucus had de
creed thnt the bit) should go over.
Tho whole trouble appears to be that
seveial Senators believe It Important po
litically that a vote be taken on the Im
migration bill this session, and another
anil larger group, acting on their own
Initiative or under direction nf tho White
House, hold to the view that there should
be no vote on the bill.
The bill could be disposed of In a very
short time If the Democratic leaders
would permit It to be tnkrn up. It Is
'(cly that It could have been disposed
of to-day In less time than It took to air
the Democratic family troubles had the
leaders so willed If It Is passed, though,
the President probably will veto It, as he
dlil last year, and that would mean an
effort to pass It over his objection.
ONE MOSQUITO IN CANAL ZONE.
Thnt' All Cunt, liana; San Valile
Won't Hrsre Mpldeintc Here.
Capt. Alex Bang It's a leal name
. .
'WHO
has been seeing service with the
Danish army ror two years In the Dan
ish West Indies, said on his arrival here
yesterday on the 1'nlted. Fruit Company
liner Tenadores, In from Havana, that he
saw only one mnsfpiltu lu the five days
he spent lu tho Panama Canal Zone. lie
wasn't certain whether this lone buzzer
was the canal mascot, The captain pre
ferred to praise the sanitation of the
zone rather than discuss the sale of the
Danish Islands.
Others on board were Dr. Harmodlo
Arias, a lawyer, of Panama, accompanied
on a honeymoon tllp by his bride. Dr,
Arias said Raymond M. Valdes, President-elect
of Panama, had said he would
not come to New York, contiary to a ie
cent report, because of the Infantile pa
ralysls. Cninlllo I'orras, son of the pres
ent head of the Republic of Panama, also
came on a pleasure trip.
DODOES SHARK; TAKES HIM.
Frrepnrt Visitor Savril by Rope
Women llnther Flee.
rRKKroRT, I l Aug. 21, Charles c,
Funk, who Is here for the summer, was
attacked by shark 111 Wood Cleft
Channel to-day nnd cscuped by aid of a
ropo which was thrown to him by Jay
llogari, a vaudeville actor. Hundreds
of bathers scattered to the bench und
several women be.-amo hysterical.
Bogurt halted a shark hook with a
fish and In a few minutes the shark
i si rues., no was orougnt close to the
dock und speared. He measured 7 feet
j 6 Inches and weighed 250 pounds.
CKNATOU STONE, whose effort
to enforce the ruling of the
Democratic caucus led to a bolt
yesterday in which ten Democrats
joined with the Republicans in a
motion to take up tho immigra
tion bill.
P mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmB
h asavavavavavavavavavK
'VI nmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmiBa
I nmmmV, 'rts
I'anmmmmV ' inT '
ft? .tB. "fT
nmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmtV IHnmB '
1" mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmVnmnSnml i ;'
BAKER TELLS WHY
GUARD MUST STAY
"Winiilnpr Woodless Victories
i Dully," Secretary Writes to
Families of Soldiers.
Wasiunoton .ug. 21. The National!
Ounrd will lie retained on the Mexican'
border until It can be withdrawn with-1
out endangering American lives and
property. Secn tary Baker so declared ,
the Administration's policy to-day In ,
answering a score of letters from many t Breat American Jury nnd let them as
parts of the country complaining that sess the responsibility,
the State troop wera lielu in service
after the emergency for which they Rejoinder of the llonil.
were called nut nppaiently had passed. "The responsibility 0f fallute" he
By Its presence on the border, Mr. ,M, I. .,, ,,,"ulc' n
Baker wrote to one. the Guard is "win-1 llc B(ldd denantl'. ' nut rest with
nlng bloodless victories dally."
"rue emergency, however." he added,
the safety nnd lives of citizens of the
t nlt'd States men. women and chll- rnan of the conference committee
dien. The presence of the mllltla on Referring to the President's pr ipnsal,
the Mexican bonier has restored order I they assert that "It is li neeivable In ,i
nnd given a higher degree of safety ond democracy like ours that til" lailroads
security to the lives of our people In should Brant, under threat of n nat.onal
that troubled ountry than they h ave strike, a $5o,ooo,u00 wage preferment to
for a long time bad. a small minority of their employees with-
"The mllltla Is therefore perfnrmlng out a hearing before a public tribunal "
n valuable service, and the fact thnt "The weight of public opinion." 'the
this service Is luing performed w Ithout 1 managers ndd, "must determine this is-
active military operations entailing os sue."
of life to our soldiers Is n caue of On the surface there was no Indication
congratulation and happiness." to-night that either side s viebllni and
Referring to the elaborate and e- the outcome nf the deadlock Is std'l no.
tensive training the militiamen are re- certain. It Is taken for granted tint the
celvlng under supervision of regular President has burned his brbUes behind
army oltlcers. the Se retnry expressed , him.
the opinion thnt It would fit them to act on the other hand, the arrival of the
In ime of war. furnlshliw nn asset to Western jallroad executive- brln-inc "e
national preparedness that could not total In Washington up to al , ,1 mtv
have been obtained otherwise. hllB not resulted in a, v .hang.' . I
of nr'nn 'Zr XX 1'
will be returned , their homes," ; ' , X '
he w roll. .... t. 1 before the Issue Is finally settled
To another coriespondent the Secre-1 ' nsnmi.
tary explained that the National (luard Door I still Open.
was malu'alueil for Jut such exigencies
as that vvhl. If now exists on the border, "ie ract that the dr.or Is still open p,
and that It had co-t the Government , continuation of negotiation ,inil ,hat
,manv millions to prepaie and keep It lnJ" railroad executives ate setting mem
, rea.lv for such emergencies. He pointed lr", 'he task of forniul itlng n
'out that National Guardsmen were fully ruriter proposal Indlcati. however, t,at
awnre of the duties they undertook , .'J'" ,H still hope nf averting the strike.
when they 'iil sted. . l,1ro"l",ct In this ies;,ect s brighter
than It has been fnr several days
EXPLOSION R0CKSJJ. R. T. TRAIN. rTl
.... .... , . nf ,hp problem, have appointed a
IWcnucr. In Pont. Window In snmller commltte.. to take chaige ,'f the
Neiirlty llousr Miinnlieit.
A mystetioiis explosion on the Bilgh
ton Reach line of the It. It. T., near Ave-
nue T, nt II o'clock last night lifted the
first car of a three car train several
Inches above the tricks and threw the
passengers Into n pan e.
ls.enscrH Into n pan c.
Motorman William C Stclnlnger
-ought the train, which seemed undam-
..ed. to the Coney Island terminal.
where he rei.or.ed that he had felt the
force of the explosion llf, the car. De- ' ' " r " " '"' " " ""-;t lln.m
lectlves of the Coney l-land precinct , . . ''"r1?.1". inse le, caution and
and several electricians of the H R. T.
bullied tn the scene nf the explosion.
but could tlnd no clues to the cause.
The
electricians could Und nothing to cm-
nect the ext.losMn with the third rail.
A theory was put forward by some of
the residents nf the nelghbo, hood that a
stick of dynamite had been exploded ....
the track, but this was regaided as
doubtful. The noise nf the explosion
awoke p. npl for half a inlle around
Avenue T. Windows In twenty nearby
houses wero smashed by the explosion.
SAVE $500,000 ON NAVY FOOD.
Metier Fed t Hediireil Cost,"
Say Pninnter-(.eiiert,
Wasiiin.iton, Aug. 21, Although the
co-t of living has gone up nppioxlmately
10 per 'tit. since the outbreak of the
Kurope.ni war the cost of subsistence In
the navy has decreased thiec-quarters of
a cent per man this year us compared
with the llsc.vl year 1!U4. A report
handed to Secretary Daniels to-day by
Paymaster Gcticial McGowau states that
a net saving of about $100, nno is Indl-
, cited compared with l!.4, or close to
$Sn0,000 on Hie lo per cent. Increase
basis.
The reduction has been effected, the condition or nnairs, however, u is lm
report rays, by the elimination of pro- Probable that Congress will give any con.
tirlniurv nulctcs. fond unlisti i nt ,,m,i slderatlotl lo iemedl.il legislation.
other supplies which could not be pur -
chased lu competition.
'!. fuel Ihnl Ihe men nr. h.l(- ,!
tn-dny than ever, even at the reluced
cost," says the Postmastei -General, "Is
fully attested by repot ts from all
sources."
' ' ,
llroivne.l In Park Pool.
,
William Richmond. !, nf 1st West
102d street, fell Into the Harlem pool,
opposite 1U2.I stieet. Ill Central Park,,
yesterday, and was drowned. Ills hodv
wns recovered by John Belafall of 2014
J Second avenue,
PRESIDENT AND
ROADS APPEAL
TO THE PUBLIC
Both Seek Verdict of Anicri-
can People to End
Deadlock.
WAY LEFT OPEN
TO NEGOTIATIONS
Carriers' Executives in Ton-
tinuous Session to Draft
Counter Plan.
LACK OP HAHMOXY
SEEN AMONG THK3E
Itailroads Expected to Yield
After Trying to Get
Concessions.
Washington, Aug. 21. I'-cxldcut
Wilson nnd tho board of managers
representing the railways of tho coun
try, without appreciably changing tho
positions they huvo taken, declared
to-day that tho Issue which has nrlscn
between them over tho Impending
strike must go to tho country for
Judgment.
The President mndo another appeal
to the fifty railroad executives with
whom ho conferred nt the Whlto
House to accept the eight hour day
and uvcrt tho threatened illsoNtcr.
"We nro both acting u.s trustees of
great Interests." he said. "I am will
ing to allow this mutter to go to the
I The rallread managers, no less de-
In a
8,u,cn"'nt Issued by Bllsha 1-e, chair-
kltltntlrttt f .- .i.. ....
....... s,.-.,, ... tuiiiiniuin WU Ml ro
prPRiMei.tj. iimi stflli'lnK nn.l m.in tho
linulu nf ttiAo.i t i
,,,,,,. , n - ' -Pi to the
mere wns wen itotined belief to.ilay
In spite of the apparent deadlotk, that
,, ,..,n.,..,.iu ' ,., "'".. iit.it
hln"r,.,,r,'5 I ,')'r.Ju',t,n''
'Jo? J",') ,'" "r "'
, "'J ,,5 ," . ','!.. "" I "!".
I t ra road nlllcials
"' . " """ " rHH elllgeient
' " C ,'","','ny ''!"
' "' '-''-"'' i n.'ie weie Hints
. "-' nil-is hi mtrinony oetvveen the
"'"' . ' " " ' ,, """"' y i' etweei, th
?"V "f "' -r and those nf th
i """T. me rnr.ner fearing that
" "r''' In r-ce verslilps or
. " ,ac,r"''e1' "if, .'" ,lful ''S ?M,r U""
'V ' ble to Heather the
,nc ",orm.
nuttonbollnu In Capitol.
Activity In regaid to the threatened
strike wns not conlliied to the White
House. leaders iilnorg the btotlierhood
delegates, after n meeting lu the morn
ing, went to the Capital to uri;e memhei.
"-' i" .i u'l ei inn ine passage of a
.. , 1111,1111111 ii,, it, nil-, limn
, Ttie President's declaration tn favor of
arbitration and his statement that such
a situation us this must never be per-
milled again had n disquieting , ffect
ai""g 'he railroad employees,
1'1'11'' 'luestlon of legislation was al.
discussed by meinbets of Congress .
formally some suggested that the ir,..
,,e"' should have authority to take over
""' operation of the roads in the event of
il ,'rl''1" M",, ,,l,,v cslsts, othei pro.
I""411 that the Intetstnte Commeire
Commission tecelve uuthurlly to fix
wages us well as rates li the present
. '!p otliclals of the Wester,,
loads, the last "to be summoned p, Wash-
ItlgtOtl, had III lived tills ltl.lt lltliir the
1 'resident was Informed of their coming,
arrangements were Immediately
m,,'!e 't'.L " c'I,!'ftMr",re f th' executives
, 1,1 ,l10 White House In the afternoon,
Some of the executives commented
!nat me niceung was ne;.i ramer to gve
the President an opportunity tn address
the railroad heads than to en.iblo him
to confer with them,
The President's talk wlih the rallioad
men was more comprehensive than that
of Saturday It wns more in'im.it,,
had sharper rcfvicucc to ilii. Ju.i ;,iuu
