( SEP 5 1916' J
XM,AV
' )
. .
YESTERb .'S WfcATUER
V. a WEATHEft fctJatttAtJ
Aug. .!, ml. LMt twailtJM
four- bsura rainfall, .03.
Tmrtnr,' Vila. 71 f Wax.
81. Wtatber, elrar. v
UTZST CABLED SUGAR QUOTATIONS
OeaU Dollavra
OMtrlfak If. T. pT lb pr Ur
Prtaaj, Bawaiiaa bad 6.60 1110.00
Laai prarloaa qnotav-
Uob 6.64 111180
v V
. VOL. IX, NO.; 68
;. v HONOLULU, HAWAII TERRITORY.'tWESDAY. AUGUST 22. 1'Jlo. SEMI-WEEKLY.
WHOLE NUMBER 4539
. . , - ' 1
RAILROAD HEADS
DECiiE AGAIiJST
TO AVERT BREAK
Presidents of Transportation
Systems Declare That They
Cannot Accept Eve Temporar
ily Eight-hour Oay Demand
WOULD INCREASE WAGES
FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS
Benefit Would Go Only To Pre
ferred Class of Labor and
Could Not Be Allowed Without
Appealing to Public Sentiment
(Associated Prni toy rederal Wlreleee)
tt WHINOTON, Augunt 22 The
yy pitanlcntu of the railroad
" HTHteim affected by the threat
ened it r ike of the member! of the four
railroud brotherhoods are practically
united in their stand againiit the pro
poned plan of President Wilson, to
waive arbitration for tha time beine;
and accept the eight-hour day proposal
of the men.
Following their protracted confer
ence with the President at the White
House, yesterday, the railroad heads
withdrew to confer among themselves,
before making any statement for the
public.
Conference Results Guarded
The nature and results of these
minor conferences were kept well con
rcnled, but it was learned that the
sentiment of the men present for tlie
most pnrt was against the suggestions
mude at the White House, at least in
their present form, although it was
hinted that with some alterations they
might pro acceptable a a basis upon
which the negotiation might be
brought to a satisfactory, collusion. ,
Indeed, ThPfa. ,wai"eowtiderabie talk
of a 'counter-proposal which might
solve the problem anil break the ap
parent . deadlock, and Id certain quar
ters there was hope expressed that such
a counter proposul might be made to
day. Getting Away From Wilson
Following the conferences held by
the milroud president, Ulewitt l.ee,
HpokeHinun nnd chairman of the con
ference, said that the trend of opin
ion wtiM away from the President '
plan.
"It is inconceivable," he declared,
"that the railroads should be culled
upon to grant demands which would
menn the payment of (tSO.OOO.OOO addi
tional wages to a preferred cluss of
their employes, nnd n class that is in
the minority, and that the demands
should be grauted under the threat of
a strike hiicIi us this, which would
paralyse the entire industrial and com
mercial activities of the nation. Cer
tainly it is impossible to conceive that
such action should be tuken by the
railroads without appealing to the last
court in this country, public opiniou."
Public Opinion Must Decide
In continuing his statement Mr. T.ee
intimated that the lines are prepared to
take whatever course the "country de
sires for we realize that public opiniou
must decide this controversy."
1'rcsidcnt Wilson put the railroad
crisis siiiurely up to the big gathering
of railroad presidents who met him at
the White House in conference yester
ilny. He reinforced his previous argu
ments for adjustment of the contro
versy, involving some concession now
In the employers, pointing out the im
portance of the railroads for military
preparedness, and declaring that the
rotids are the vitul industrial frame
work of the nation and thut it is abso
lutely necessary to keep them running
Eo&di Are Not Blamed
He mid he did not blume the roads
for lighting for the principle of urbi
tintion, but that he believed under
piesent ci rciinistnnces they should ac
cept the eight hour plan demanded by
tin- men. urbit rating Inter the working
out of harmonious ud.justuient.
SPAIN PLANNING BIG
INCREASE OF HER ARMY
(Associated Praaa by rederal Wtrelesa)
M.VPKID, August 22 Plans for in
creasing the Spanish standing army to
1MI.IHH) peace strength will be sub
mitted to parliament Within a short
time. The proposed increase is part
of a comprehensive plun for improv
ing the condition of the national de
fense, which lias been under discussion
for some time.
GERMANS REMIT BIG FINE
Associated Presa by federal Wireless )
A MSTI'.'HH A f, August 22. Accord
ing to the Kcho Helge, General von
hissing, the (ierninn governor of Bel
gium, has remitted the fine he imposed
upon Xrussels for celebrating a fete
without his permission. The city re
fused to pay the Hue.
S ' ' ii . ii " "'' " i." i." i ' i . . t i
Map of Theater of
9
1 gslotiika, From Which Base Kntenta Torcea Are Conducting Their Prevent Offeiulrev ft end 9 Mountain Pane of Btntmnltxa and Kostendi), Held
By Teutonic. 4 Ruaataa rieei Off Varna, BalgarU'i Chief Fort S and Concentration Joint For Teuton. 7 Brlndlsl, Where a Strong Italian
Ea petitionary Torre Ii Watching Ul Waiting. 8 Lemnot, Abandoned Allied Baa For QaUlpoll Campaign, Which Supplied French Troops At Salon
ika. and 8 Rhodes, Which I Occupied 'By Italian Troop and May Serve A Another Feeder For Present Campaign In Balkans, and Fiorina, Which
i . , Ha J art Been Captured By Bulgarian From Extreme Xtft Wing of Serbian Army
: " "., - :
. . . V
HUGHES ASSAILS mmChmeseCrmsNowIsSettleSME PAY HEAVILY
Republican Candidate For Presi
dency Decries Such Abuses
(Aaaoelated Frsai by Faderal Wlralaai.)
I.OM AN(5ELK8, August 22. Charles
K. Hughes, candidate of the Republican
party for the presidency, last night se
lected as the main theme of his address
here the abuses of community interests
for private advantage.
"I have not hauled down the flag
thut I raised in New York," said Mr.
Hughes.
"I stand now as then against the
abuse of community interest for the ml
vantage of private individuals or con
cents. ' '
.
MIKADO DECORATES THOSE
RESPONSIBLE FOR TREATY
(Bpsclal OablaiTam to Nlppo J1J1.)
TOKIO, August 22. The Jupunese
Kir.poror has awarded high oftieiuls of
the department of foreign affairs, ami
the members of the Jupaueae embassy
in Petrogrud, for their work in com
pleting the Kusso-.Tapnnese agreement.
Most of them received decoration uud
cash donations.
FORMER VILLISTA MURDERED
(Aasnclstad Praas by ysdaral Wlralaaa)
CITY OK CHIHUAHUA, August 22.
Federico Chavea, former general un
der Villa und purdnnded by the Cnr
riinza government, has beeu murileied
by n band of Villista (utlaws, Hceord
ing to a report which' reached Clem itil
Trevino yesterday.
NEW MINISTER IN PEKING
(Spesial Cablegram to Hippo J1J1 )
TOKIO, August 22 Baron (loiisuke
Huyushi, the newly appointed Jap
anese minister to China, paid his of
licial call upon the Chinese president,
l.i Yuen Hung, yesterduy, uud pre
seated his credentials.
War In Levant, Where Greece and Rumania Face Crisis
,4
JapanSends Terms To China
(Special Cablafram to The Hawaii H octal)
To Kit), August 2-'. The trouble be
teen the Jupunese and the Chinese
g eminent, over the outbreak of the
Chinese troops at Cheng Chin Tung, has
been peacefully settled, according to a
statement issued by the Japuneae for
eign ortico lust night.
The feeling in this country againat
the Chinese following the announce
ment that a number of Japanese sol
dier hud been tortured by the Chinese,
and others killed, grew to an alarming
height, and not a few of the papers
I here and elsewhere in the empire in
sisted that "China must be chastised."
Mercy Tempers Justice
"We have possibly many reason for
chastising China," said the statement
issued lust night by u high ottieial Of
the foreign office, "but the govern
ment authorities here have come to the
conclusion that the proper method of
dealing with the situation would be to
take into consideration the difficulties
the Chinese government is now eon
fronting and let mercy temper justice.
We have therefore decided, to deal len
iently with the country because of the
many extenuating circumstance con
nected with the affair.
"We have done this largely because
we realize thut the Chinese government
is cont' routing a situation that is still
serious, and one thut demands much
care in the handling, nnd we do not
wish to embarrass the authorities in
Peking further than is necessary.
SUBMARINE FREIGHTER
BREMEN IS EN ROUTE
(Associated Preaa br Federal Wlrelese.)
NOKKOI.K, Virginia, August 22. Ac
cording to reports current here last
night the German submarine Brenieu,
sister ship of the Uetit schlunil, left a
German port August 14, headed for
New London, Connecticut, where it is
asserted thut arrangements have been
made for her reception.
"We have then settled the questions
between the two countries under three
"conditions, as follows:
Term of Settlement
"First All persons who were re
sponsible for the violent oufbreak ot
the Chinese troops shall be punished
severely by the Chinese government-
"Second Proper compensation shall
be made by the Chinese government
for the lives of the Japanese soldiers
killed in the conflict with the Chinese
troops, and for the dnmago done to
Japanese property.
"Third If a Mongolian ( army or
scattered bands of Mongolians disturb
the peace of China in future, the gov
ernment of China shall ask the assist
ance of Japan in putting down the dis
order. ' '
JAPANEsFaND CHINESE
WITHDRAW THEIR TROOPS
H
WASHINGTON, August 22. Des
patches to the Chinese legation yester
day announced that the Chinese and
Japanese troops at Cheng Cbia Tung
hae been withdrawn some distance
from euch other to avoid further clash
es, pending the negotiation between
the two countries. The despatches udd
ed that the Japunese have seined a Chi
nese magistrate. A despatch from
Tokio, says that the Japanese govern
ment has sent 2001) additional troops
to the garrison at Cheng Chia Tung.
BORDER TOWNS HEAR ONCE
MORE THAT VILLA IS DEAD
(Aaaoelated Press by Federal Wireless)
Kl. I'ASO, August 22. Another re
port that General Villa is dead reached
this city Inst night from the City of
ChihuAhun. The statement says that
the bandit leader died of blood pois
oning July H, anil that he was buried
near I'urrul. The story is not believ
ed hefe.
-(ft
F
Casualties Among British Officers
Have Reached Large Total
(Associated Preaa by Federal Wireless)
LONDON, August 21 Anuounce
ment made by the British war office
today shons t lie tremendous toll of life
whicli the Allies' offensive on the west
is now taking.
The casualties of the British army
during the lust seven days are the
heaviest of the war. The toll 1 737
officers killed, 1088 wounded and 134
missing.
This brings the total casualties
among o flic its to 10.H42 killed, 22,978
wounded and 2590 missing.
CHINA ASKS JAPANESE TO
BE HER MILITARY ADVISOR
(Special Cablegram to The Hawaii Hoc hi)
TOKIO, August 22. Lieut. -den. No
Imtoslii Aoki, former commandant of
the fortress of Port Arthur, bus been
asked to be advisor in military affairs
of the Chinese government, by Presi
dent l.i Yuen Hung. General Aoki
probably will accept th( offer.
MILLION DOLLARS BURNED
IN BIG BLAZE AT KOBE
(Special Cable To The Hawaii Hochl)
TOKIO, August 22. Twelve store-lioiiM-s,
bcloupiiig to the Sumitomo
Warehouse ( ompany of Kobe, were
destroyed by lire yesterday. The dum
Hue is estimated ut approximately
f I.IMKI.OIHI.
MUNITION PLANT BLOWS UP
(Associated Press by Federal Wireless.)
LONDON, August 21. Heriou loss
of life is feared as the result of an ex
plosion in a munition plant in York
shire this afternoon, according to an
official statement just given out. No
detuils ure available.
DEVELOPMENTS INDICATE
BALKAN KINGDOM HAS CAST
LOt WITH ENTENTE POWERS
Berlia Practically Admits Reports From Lon
don and Paris That Little State Is Ready To
Strike At Czar Ferdinand From North and
Thus Open Way For the Russian Forces
LEVANT CRISISCRITICAL
(Associated Press By Federal Wireless)
PARIS, August 22 Rumania is about to join the Kntente and hurl
her vell-traiiul ami well-equipped army of between half a million
and three quarters of a million men, on the flanks of the Rulgars, now
attacking the Allies north of Salonika. Such is the reading of the of
fensive of the Teutons in the Balkans here, in London and in Berlin.
GERMAN EXPERT ADMITS DANGER
Indeed. Major Moraht, one of the best known of the German mili
tary experts and leader writer for the Berliner Tageblatt, intimated
yesterday Rumania has already joined the Allies, and that Germany
is on the point of sending an ultimatum to Bucharest, capital of Ru
mania, lie says that the allied plan is to have Rumania join the En
tente, open the road for Russia to march through and strike at Bulgaria, .
while at the same time the Allies at the Salonika front will strike from
the south, the aim lieing to cut the Belgrade-Constantinople railroad,
which is regarded as the line through which Turkey draws in the sup- '
plies which keep alive her resistence to the Russian and allied blows.
OFFENSIVE WITH POLITICAL AIM ,
With the outbreak of the military activity in the .Balkans" lata lat, i V
week the military authorities here, and elsewhere pointed- out. that the . 7;
attack 'of the Bulgarians and their .Teutonic allies could havconlv
minor military significance, but vrcrede$igaed. fa.fkSilUka'l
etfttrt upon .Rumania and Greece. , '...'.'' ':::''''
It was asserted then that Romething must be moving behind the; Veil
which the censors of the. warring
Over the doings of the nations. Yesterday the motive of the offensive
became apparent with the lifting of the veil regarding the movement
of Rumania.
INTRIGUE TO WIN OVER RUMANIA
That nation has been hovering on the verge of war for months.
Bucharest has been tfie scene of more intrigue than any other of the
minor capitals of 'Europe for years. Gentian and Austrian agents,
worked against French, Russian and British agents in. their efforts to
swing the decision of the Rumanian leaders for one side or the Other.
Now il is coiilidcntally asserted that Russia is willing to pay the price,
which all along it has been declared Rumania has demanded, and that
the die lias Veen cast. Rumania is to receive Bessarabia, which belongs
to Russia, but which the Czar is willing to cede in return for the active
co-nperation of the Rumanians in the war.
BERLIN CRITIC ADMITS GRAVE DANGER
Major Moraht, in an article yesterday, outlines the situation and
frankly admits the danger to the Bulgarian Hsitions, should Rumania
align herself with the Kntente allies and proceed to strike with the
army of half a million men she has under arms at the present moment,
lie points out that the Rumanians have been bending every effort to
get their forces into the best possible fighting trim, and that now the
Rumanian army is second to none in F.urope in training and equipment.
I'ari- ami London yesterday insisted that the Bulgarian offensive
in the Balkans is hut a political move, directed by the German gen
eral staii'. which is admittedly directing all the operations of the
war loi i l,c I "t-iit i il powers, in the hope of affecting public opinion
in Rumania and also with the hope of influencing the nearing Greek
elections.
Meantime the lighting on the actual battle fields of the great war con
tinued ye-terday without a pause. In the Balkans, along the line of the
Sonime. on the east bank of the Meuse, on both sides ot the Stokhod,
and in the Carpathians the struggle
BULGARS TAKE FLORINA
The Bulgarian offensive launched last week against the Serbs
who are holding the left w ing of the Allies' line in the Balkans, was
more successful. The important town of Fiorina, is a Greek town
southeast of Monastir. .This move may force the Greek ' govern
ment to abandon its present stand and take sides with one or the
others of the combatants in the great war.
The capture of the town, though unimportant in its military sig
nificance, caused consternation in the Greek capital, according to
reports received from Athens yesterday. The King summoned the
members of his general staff and members of his cabinet to discuss
the results of the Bulgarian move and the probable effect it will
have in ireece
KING CLOSELY GUARDED
There is apparently little doubt in Athens "as to the nature of the
move, for the Royalists, who are supporting King Constantine, have
taken extraordinary precautions fur the coming elections, and the
king is guarded by a full brigade of troops.
But while this politico-military movement was being made the Allies
were preparing one of their own and reports from Salonika yesterday
declared I hat a body of Italians have landed at port, prepared to take
the field against the Bulgarians and their German generals. This brings
Italy and Germany face to face in the war, and will undoubtedly be fol
lowed soon by a declaration of war either from Berlin or Rome, or from
both capitals. The Italians are prepared to participate in the fighting
against the Teutons and the Bulgars, it is reported.
(Continued
countries have drawn so carefully
went on bitterly.
on I'lio 3)
