.
M'T . ." . ?
-? ?..-r-yy ? v-A-. - )y. ^ " "T" ""
'
Fox's Comics
In The Times-Dispatch, Amuse
Young and Old Every Day
Richmond CitticS -Bispatrii
"Mr. Jiggs
The Irrepressible Ji$gs. Has His
I roubles This Morning
56th YEAR
VOLUME) ??
AT MIIK.Il 284
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, AUGUST 22, 1916. ? TWELVE PAGES.
SMnK FAIR
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
- ?w ? ^ 1 ? I I II ?? IUV
STIRRING APPEAL
10 RAILWAY HEADS
rges Them on Grounds of
Patriotism to Accept
His Plan.
'OINTS TO DISASTROUS
EFFECTS SURE TO RESULT
-ivcs and Fortunes of Millions of
Men, Women and Children
Depend on Decision.
kXKCITIVF.K IN CONFKKKNCR
to Turn Over to Committee
Task of Draft Inn Final
Keply to Proposal.
WASHINGTON, Aucust 21- As one
American citizen to another, Presl
lent Wilson to-day appea|ei| to each
? f the executive* of the country's prin
lp.il railroads on kr??uti?lg* of patriotism
accept hlf plan for averting the
fhreatened disaster <f a natlon-wldo
ttrlko Ho emphasized the necessity
'or keeping the railroads in service
is a part of the national defense, and
make possible preparations for
neetlnc- conditions that will exist after
i he European war.
? '?n leaving the White House the rail
toad presidents, auKtnentel
1av by arrivals from the West, held
|< conference at which sentiment waB
paid to he against agreeing to the
(President's proposal in its present
form Hope was expressed, however,
'hat sonic satisfactory counterpropo
'iltion might he advanced, and It was
flectded to turn over to a coitynlttee
'ho task of drafting a final reply to
?ho President. Wltli more than sixty
I'm on, most of them with their own
I'dea? about wl at fi?iphi to he done,
"ho executive foijii<l it dtfl;i- ij 11 to "pet
hown to brass tacks,' aa otic of them
rx [tressed it Tf'-ni'irrcn itiorniiiR
? nother meeting will ho held, and
very effort will be made t . roa> h a
lle<-lsion promptly.
fvil.MIN" ASKIM, MMIIIHT
"I' l'Hl\riIM,K ?>K AIIIUTItATlOV
Tin- railroad heads still insist that
iPresident Wilson is asking them to
tacrifice the principle of arbitration.
|Kltsha Lee, chairman of the National
'onfereni e fointnittce of Railways, is
sued a statement to-night in which
lti?* said:
"That the railroads should grant,
|iiruler threat of a national strike a
.otn? wace preferment to a small
::iinont> of their employees, without
?i hearlnc before a public tribunal, is
inconceivable in a democracy like ours
All questions- ni issue?wages, costs,
operating conditions- are submerged
b.v the creator issue arbitration
he abandoned n t ??, -et t ;..n <-tit oi
tndtist ria 1 dispute
The st a'em .-it . c, l t
I hn1 the railroads . ,
what ever action the people of the
?ountry destre it , lu-ie
"The weight of public opinion must
Jdetermine this is-u?- We cannot be
ove that it I- the calm Judgment of
the I'oiinirj that we should sacrifice
the principle .( ari tt.ilon in indus
trial disputes, under a threat to ue up
the commerce ..f the countrj*."
While the b we?, listening to
f'residoi.t Wilson and later conferring
it their hotel. ?! ? general committee
?f file represent.it \e- of the employees,
who already have an opted the Pre?i
lont s plan, held a perfunctory meet
up and marked time, awaiting the do
?ision of the employers. They ?aid
?hey would wait until President Wilson
[lismlssod them, but stood ready to call
ttrike should the negotiations fail.
lAltNKSTl.V i niiKS IIIS PI.AX
of sktti,i:mk\t iik ratified
Although a few of the railroad ex,
"cut Ives invited had not arrived this
[ifternoon. it was decided that those al
ready in Washington were representa
tive, and. therefore the President called
ihem to th** \\ hite II uise ai.o earnestly
|.irged that hiv plan of settlement bo
ratified.
I will not allow passion to come into
ny thoughts in this solemn matter," he
I Bald. "We are both acting as trustees
nf Rreat Interests. I am willing to al
low this matter to go to the great
American Jury nnd let them assume
!he responsibility. The responsibility
.f failure will not rest with me.
"I wish you to consider the conse
quences to people of the cities and
?onntry#?Ides of a. falluro to agree. The
?ountry cannot live If the means of
I keeping nllve U9 vitality art> Inter
fered with. Tito lives and fortunes of
lon.nno.ooo men, women nnd little ones
-many of whom may die?depend upon
I what may be done in this room. I
ippeal to you as one American citizen
io another to avert this disaster."
The President spolto In more intimate
(fashion than he has in any of the pro
vlons conferences, lie referred to tlit,
disastrous effect which a strike would
have "especially at (his ti?ie when
every ounce of American energy nnd
in native has to l.o mobilized to meet
i he extraordinary situation which
will tTncrgo out of the I'hiropenn war."
Reiterating that it was impossible
[for him to bring about arbitration un
let- "present conditions, the President
declared it was necessary to discuss
-iractlcal methods of avoiding a strike.
IThn war. h<- said, had taught this coun
try that 11 ran no longer remain iso
lated and provincial; that hy reason of
its position in the affairs of the world
"we must be ready to plajjr our role aa
me of the dominant influences in the
|world's affairs." and that in order to
leet the exigencies of new world con
ditions, the varied business and econ
Iwile Interests of the nation must be
brought - together Into n harmonious
whole.
"Our great national resources can
inot be made available or mobilized in
this emergency as a necessary part of
(Continued on ScconcTPagcT)
mc
Statement Issued on Behalf of Kail
roads Outlines Their Position on
Pending Controversy.
w.\c;ks, not hours, ixvolvkd
Willing for Public Tribunal, Ap
pointed by President, to Deter
mine .Justice of Demands?Oppose
Sacrifice of Arbitration Principle.'
WASH IN' IT* ?N. August -1.?Klisha
l,eo, chairman of tli?? national confor
med committee ol railways, Issued a
j statuniont to-night outlining tho posi
tion of the railroads in the present con
troversy. Mr. I.ee said:
"That the railroads should .rrnnt tii-!
.ier throat of a. national strike a
000.000 wage proferment to a small ml
I noi ity of their employees. without a
hcurlri; before a public tribunal, is
? inconceivable in a de-nocr:1' y like ours,
i All questions at issu<?wage, hours,
-osts. operating conditions?those are
! submerged by the greater issue: shall
! :i rbltration l>e abandoned in the settle
Mi'* it of industrial disputes.
?!f k ? are to throw arbitration into
the scrap heap what hopes can there
he it America for industrial peace
in the future'.'
nation-wide strike is unth;nkable
I when tho railroads are uririr.g that all
' the matters in dispute be placed before
any tribunal constituted bv public au
j thority.
j ".arbitration is urged by I'oncress ns
ja final method for settling ontroverrles
as to both hours and wages on tlie
| railroads. The New lands law of 1.513
was enacted by unanimous request of
the four railroa<: brotherhoods, and
th> repres'Ttat i v of the railroads,
and yet the leaders who urged this
law, 11o?w take tin- position that a ques
tion 'if hours is beyond arbitration.
1 i:k.ht-moi it i'.\ \ it \sis
iikma \ i?;i> iiv i:mi*i.')vi:ks
"Hut wages i"t hours, are involved
in these demands." No proposal has
been made to establish an elght-houj
workday. Th? demand ;s f'?r an eii'ht
tour b:??i:?. ati'l this i- ti,e inter
pret at ; iivpii h\ t? l'r<^:d<ii? if th
proitosil now bof'ie the i I road: Tlie
i ? rni'loyees :iav- emj.ha 11 -allv it
knoMi: that they do not wmt ???l*Iii
hours' work i or i-ii'lit hours' pav, a
rea' eight-hour da;.
simple Illustration will suffice I >
f-h- w how the eight-hour basis '>f pay
kvould work out T ike. f???- example,
i a freight employee paid ioi.'h a mile
with a ?!av's iruarati'eo o*' fnr !>>o
j miles, or ten hours or less- |? is pro
posed to make this guar.ii.tee the same
for eiaht ho irs or l.-ss. < ?n a freight
!iun of fav only sixty miles in ten
'i"';r? he earns $'? f >r his time. It
now proposed that r this work he in.
paid $' for the first ?? i?ht hours ,i:id
*1.3?> foi i'io oth* r hour-, .i total of
??? ?5. increasing his p'-i cent.
"lr. by reason of traffic delays, he
. is held idle i.n a side track, so that
he does not complete his trip until the
end of twelve h?urs, lie now is p/?ld
*6 for his 11me, no matter how little
v.< j - he iierf'.nvs The demand is to
. p; '.?!!? >7 foi this twelve-hour
Hi?rv i ??
" \ >11: lll'I'OIITI MTIF.S to
MAliK I, A IttiKH I'AV
".Meanwhile the employees would
continue to have the same opportuni
ties as now to make still larger pay
on the mileage basis. For example,
the n.at; oil a -cont-a-mile-rate, mak
ing. say 150 miles in only seven hours,
earns #7.50 for his day's work. If,
I after this, he is called for a short
p< riod of emergency work, say only
i two hours, he cots nnother full day's
guarantee of jr., making $12.50 In this
example for only nine hours' service.
"Many other schedule provisions In
crease the wages of tHe well-paid men
without increase in their hours of ser
vice It is because of these opportuni
ties to take pay under mileage or ar
j biture rule that their yearly earnings
I are so far beyond those.of other work
ers charged with no less responsible
duties.
"The proposal from the President
now before the railroads is:
, "I. To adopt the eight-hour days 'as
a basis for wages, even where the
actual work to he done cannot be com
pleted within eight hours,' to quote
| the President's words.
! "2. To increase the hourly rate ot
' pay 26 per cent.
"The result of the acceptance of this
proposal would be:
"1. Absolutely no change In the
length of the work day.
"2. An increase in wages of moro
than 350,000,000 a year to about four
fifths of the train employees, or less
than one-seventh of all railroad om
ployees In other words, an 'jtifait
wage, preferment would he granted,
without investigation and under threat
of a national strike, to one man in
seven In the railroad service.
"If these wage demands are just in
whole or in part, then a public
tribunal, appointed by the. President,
as wo have urged, would speedily so
determine.
"The weight of public opinion must
determine this issue. We cannot be
lieve that it Is the calm Judgtn -nt of
the country that we should sacrifice
the principle of arbitration lr. Indus
?rial disputes under a threat to tie
up the commerce of the country."
MEETS ALL REQUIREMENTS
New Convertible Klylngr Machine (liven
Initial Flights nt Newport
New*.
NEWPORT NICWS. August 21.?A
new convertible flying machine, which
can rise from land or water, piloted by
Victor Carlstrom, met all requirements
of the Navy Aeronautical Board In
throe initial flights at the Atlantic
Coast Aeronautical Station here to-day.
The big twin motor model ascended
6,000 feet In ten minutes, made a maxi
mum speed of nlnety-flvo miles an hour
and a minimum of forty-five miles an
hour, and rose from the water within
a distance of 150 yards. Naval Con
structor Richardson, Lieutenant W. G.
Child and Lieutenant C. K. Bronson, of
the inspection board, were passengers
during tho test.
DEMOCRATS III REVOLT
AGIST CUIUS ACTION
Ten ?>f Thcin Vote Willi Solid Re
publican Minority to Tnke 1"|?
Immigration Bill.
DKVKI.OI'M IvNT (' N K\ P KC'T M 1>
Opens Way for K (forts to Displuco
Kevenue Mill its I'nfinished Musi
ness. Course Which Might 1'rolonK
Indefinitely Session of Congress.
WASIIIN JT'/N. \u_ruc-l 21. An unex
pected Democratic revolt in the Senate *
to-day resulted in the immigration bill
being taken up In''If*fiance of tho D? m ?
ocratlc caucus and opened the- way for
efforts to displace the revenue l>ill as
unfinished business. an action which
mlkIu iii'l'-fli: :tel\ prolonc the sr slon
of Congress.
Ten Democrats voted with the solbl ;
Republican u .noritv t-> take up tho
immigration I? i 11 upon a motion of Sen
ator Smith, of South Carolina, chair
man of ?l? e Immigration Commliteo.
They were A'liimt, Hockh.iiTi, Chum
hei lam. <*uH.'-i yon. Hardwlck. l/uie.
Myrs, Overman. Smith, of South * 'aro
lina, and Vnrdarnan.
Debate 1 ^!i on Uk- measure imme
diately ami proceeded until 2 o'clock,
i when the revenue hill automatically
came before the Senate. Senator Smith
then moved to displace the revenue
bill, provokinsr an all-afternoon discus
sion. which will be resumed when the
[ Senate meets to-morrow.
8TOXK Allot SKI) OVKIt
t(TI((\ or IlKVal.'ITTHS
Senator Stone, chairman of the Kor
j eign Relations' Committee, was partle
! ularlv aroused over the action of the
i revolters. He charged them with
|treachery to the party in overturning
I the decision of the Democratic caucus
i to postpone action on the immigration
I bill until December. Senator Stone's
words aroused the if. of Senators
Hardwick and Smith, of South Caro
llna.
"I pioniise?| my constituei t - that I
would do all in my power to iccure
tite paso'.'tee of tnc immigration bill."
said Senator Hardw - k, "and I propose
t-i stand hy ti prom M ???ti
stituency is greater than the Demo
cratic caucus'
.<t'?r Smith insisted that tl ? im
: migration bill "never had been a parti
san issue "We should shut our floors."
he said, "until w. can Americanize the
crowd we now have, so that men on
this door might tight for the American
lag without fearlnir half-baked for
eigners. whose allegiance, in th?.-'r
hearts, is to another country."
To-day's development shut, off debate
on the revenue hill, but the administra
tion leaders hope to ^et it under way
to-morrow.
II \ \ w Il.i. ?l \ lx i: Ml
|ss( i; \\ i mi i>hi:mi>i:n t
\\ ASH IN< ;T< >N*. Auuu-t 21.?Chair
man Hay. of the House Militaty Com
; inittce. will interpose no obstacle to
j the elimination of the exemption of
I retired officer* from the articles of .var
I embodied in the army appropriation
1 bill V' toed I ', ('resident Wilson. Mr.
Hay announced to-day that iir pro
j posed to make no issue with the Pr--si
?dent He will ? ? ,11 i up the bill to-mor
row with the articles of wir elimi
nated, and if the articles are added by
the Senate with his amendment cut
out. he will not object.
j ACCI s|> st'KFII AlilSTS OF
i n i im. to 111:i.i> in (,iii s
WASHINGTON'. August 21. -The Con
I RTessional I'nion of Woman Siiffna>>
was charged with beinff inter- sted
chiefly in restoring the Republican
party to power hy Senator Thomas, of
Colorado, chairman of the Woman Suf
frage Committee, in a speech to-da>
on the floor of the Senate. H<? de.
clawed th.it the union was encased in
raising funds for the Hughes campaign
and had been instrumental in inducing
the nominee to declare in favor of the
amendment In opposition to the He
publican platform. Mr. finches, he
added, had seized upon suffrage as an
issue because the Republican party had
given him no Issue for his campaign.
Senator Borah, Republican, of Idaho,
who is opposed to the Federal amend
ment. declared that Mr. Huches's ac
jtion would not strengthen the Reptib
I limn partv "one particle."
! EIGHT KILLED IN EXPLOSION
Boilers In Plant of Iliirlnu Morris Com.
puny In .Incknnn, Tenn.,
Hurst.
JACKSON*. TRN'N*., August 21.?Kiglit
persons were killed and a number of
others are reported missing as the re
sult of an explosion here to-day at the
plant of the Harlan Morris Stave Manu
facturing Company. Three boilers govo
way and the shock was felt throughout
j the city. The known dead:
W. E. Freeman. Marion Haton. F'ope
! SmaIIwood, .1. Pinkston, Simon 1'ersky,
Rob Rogers, negro; J 15. Tot ten, negro,
and Henry Clora, negro.
1.ester Railey and C!. H. McAnnully,
two other employees, were among the
seriously injured The cause of the ac
cident has not been definitely ascer
tained. A larfje part of one of tho
boilers was blown 200 yards from the
plant.
More than seventy-five men were em
ployed hy the company, and it was said
If the explosion had occurred an hour
later the loss of life wntihl have been
heavier.
AMBASSADOR SHARP HERE
Accompanied hy llniiKhtcr. Arrive*
Front France on l.iner
l.nfnyctlo.
NKW YORK, August 21? William
Graves Sharp, American ambassador to
I? ranee, and Miss Margaret Sharp, his
daughter, were passengers on tho
French Mner Lafayette, which arrived
to-day from Bordeaux
Another passenger was I!.' Rautoul,
of the American ambu'.ince corps, w i?o
was decorated by tho French govern
ment lor carrying wounded from 'ho
first-line trenches to tho roar on tho
western battle field.
DEATH OF SOLDIERS
DUE TO CONFUSION
Military Board of Inquiry Exon
erates Troopers of Any Sus
picion of Insobriety.
HOLD BOTH FUNERALS TO-DAY
Will Bury Privates Gooch and
Meade With Full Mili
tary Honors.
That the accident yesterdax morn- ;
j lng at Acca Station, resulting in the
deaths of Privates Henry '? Gooch and
| W. F. Meade, of Troop I?. First Vlr
ginia Cavalry. wa- 11 u?> entirely to the
j confusion of the young men when they
.stopped in the path of southbound At
I lnntlc Coast Line train No t'.l. and not
| to any untoward personal condition.
| was the conclusion last night of a
j military hoard appointed by Lieut en -
I ant - Colonel S;t la tnon. k y. commanding
i otllcer at (.'amp Stuart to inve ligatn
(the tragedv.
Both young men were of exemplary
| habits, and had started from the Meade
i home in Alexandria in a perfectly
| sober condition, according to evidence
(adduced before the board That they
' reached Acca in this condition was the
; testimony of a number of persons who
'saw them before and ;?ft?-r arrival,
j The board, which is headed by First
lieutenant T'. BitL-f-r, will continue
. its investigat[ons to-d;iy. other mem
j bers of the board are First lieutenant
W. N. Mercer and Second Lieutenant
P. H. Hudgins.
cohovkics jrnv wii.i.
HOI.I) IXUI'KST TO-MO It HO \V
Coroner Taylor yesterday impan
j eled a Jury to investigate the deaths
| of the two soldiers. The Jury viewed
the bodies, and the inquest will be held
in Coroner Taylor's otlice at 10 o'clock
i to-morrow morning.
The mangled bodies of the victims
were found on either sid" of th?> south
bound main line by the. crew of a yard
ermine. Meade's handbag, the leather
sub of which had been npp-d open by
the !'?)?? e with which it had be.-n hurled
against the ground, was found somo
distance from his body, while Gooch's
hat was found about twenty feet from
bis body.
Meade and Gooch. with Privates Mc
Nabb and Carson, of I.i Troop, had been
: to Alexandria, where Meade's parents
! reside. They were due to return to
Camp Henry C. Stuart Sunday morning,
but did not arrive here until 12:20 yes
terday morning, coming on the Sea
board Air Line train which reaches
Acca at that time. When a stop waa
made to change onginaa the troopers
alighted and Btarted to walk, to the
camp, about a mile across country.
MIIXH OF TWO TWAINS
t O.M'I SKI) VOl. .\fi SOLDI Kit.S
< "arson and McNabb went into the
fields immediately, but Meade and
j Gooch evidently lingered on the tracks
a short time before starting. At this
time the train on which they had re
j turned to Richmond was just leaving
; Acca. and had started the heavy pull
? up the incline which leads to the Sea
board tracks. At 1 - -^ o'clock the At
| lantic Coast line train No. fil is due.
I This train evidently was on time, and.
gliding down the grade of the yards
; on the tracks of the Richmond, Fred
| ericksburg and Potomac Railroad, it
1 swept on the unsuspecting hoys before
they knew of its pjesence. The noise
made by the other train Is thought
to have drowned its approach.
Train No. <11 makes no stop in the
yards, and generally goes .through
them at high speed The engineer,
Tom Brown, did not see the boys, and
nothing was known of the accident
until the train arrived at Byrd Street
Station. There a railroad employee
found a portion of Meade's hat on the
pilot of the engine The yard ofYico
at Acca was notified, and the yard
engine sent bark with orders to pro
ceed until the victim was found.
RAILROAD OFFICIALS
rnojinri.v xotifikd police
Officials of the railroad notified the
police and military authorities at once.
Sergeant Allen was sent from tho camp
to take charge f?>r the government,
while Detective Sergeant Wily, acting
for Coroner Taylor, and Policeman
j Keid. of the Second Precinct, were hur
. ried to the scene in a patrol wagon,
j Sergeant Wily turned the bodies over
| to Undertaker Rennett, who removed
j them to his establishment.
Trooper Meade was the son of Rev.
Stasius Meade, rector of an Kpiscopal
church in Alexandria. Ills parents ar
rived In Richmond early yesterday
morning to take charge of the body.
Trooper Gooch. who was well known
In this cit*, was the son of T. R. Gooch,
superintendent of telegraph on the
(?Continued on St n?i Pace )
To Our Good Friends?
Our Readers
Owing <<i tlir unprecedented
famine In l lie supply of whit*
paper on which newspaper* are
printed. The Times-Dispatch has
eliminated a large waste of uhlte
paper by abolishing the return of
unsold copies by newsboys, news
dealers, carriers am! other news
paper distributors.
It would he nnfair in the hoy
wlin supplies your copy of The
Times-Dispatch lo r.xpect him to
run the risk (if lo?s in purchasing:
mill holding a copy for you unless
you give lilm u rrKiilar order for
It.
Will you not, therefore, help
I he newsboy, newsdealer or c-ar
rler liy Kiting n regular order for
(he delivery of The Tlines-Dis
patch at your olllcc or home, so
that you may he sure of hating n
copy saved for you every dayf
GUARD TO STAY ON BORDER
US LONE IS THERE 15 MEED
No <'hnn?o Cntll It Can lie With,
drawn Without KiidaiiKcriiig Amcr*
i?''?ti Lives mid Property.
pourv di;<'I.ahkd in iukkk
Answers Score of Letters Complain
ing Tlmt State Troops Are Heing
Held After Kmergeiiey for Which
'I hey Were Culled Out Has Passed.
WASHINGTON, August 21.?Tho Na
tional Guard will ho retained on the
Mexican border until it can he with
drawn without again endangering
American lives and property. Secre
tary linker so declared the mlmlnlK- |
t rat Ion s policy to-day, in answering
a score of letters from many parts of
tho country complaining that the State |
troops were hoi tig held in service after
the emergency for which they wore
called out apparently had passed.
In general, the complainants alleged!
that border service was entailing loss
financially ?.m militiamen and hard- j
ship on their families.
H.v Its presence on the. border, he j
\\ rote to one, the guard is "winning
bloodless victories daily." He do- j
clared that Americans resident along
the international line were enjoying a
peace and security they could not know
without the protection of military
forces
He added the presence >>f the militia
| on the Mexican border has restored
order ?:m) given a higher degree of
| safety and security to the lives of our
j people In that troubled country than
they have had for a long time.
\VII,I. KIT >!!.;>- TO A(T
I.\ TIME OK EMEHGENCY '
Referring to the elaborate and ex- j
tensive training the militiamen are '
receiving under supervision of regular
army officers, (he secretary expressed
the opinion that it would fit them to
[ act in time of war or other emergency
as a supporting arm. or second line,
for the regular army, furnishing an
asset to national preparedness that
I could not have been obtained other
wise.
'"'"learly so soon as a restored state
of order r?u the border justifies it.
these troops will be returned to their
homes," he wrote. "In the meantime, I
it is not possible for the department
to say how soon such a situation will
arise, although the Mexican situation
is one of Increasing hopefulness."
To another correspondent the secre
tary explained that the National Guard
was maintained for Just such exiBen
[ cles which now exist on the border.
; and that it had cost tho government
; 010">* millions to prepare and keep it
j ready for such emergencies. He polnt
1 ed nut that national guardsmen were
! fully aware nf the duties they und
tot.k when they enlisted.
CAKItAV/.A MIST PKO.MISE
ins h;i,i, co-okeiiation
f Special to The Times-Dispatch.">
WASHINGTON. August 21.?The cur
rent phase of the Mexican situation is
now believed to he near a solution.
The American delegates to the bor
der conference will be instructed to
comply With Carranza'* demand that
American troops he withdrawn from
Mexico, hut on three conditions.
farrnnza must first sign an agree
ment to maintain 20,0nn Mexican troops
along the frontier to co-operate with
20/ioo American troops In preserving i
order.
As an alternative. Carranza may ?
agree to the establishment of a neutral i
zone on the Mexican side r.f the border
in which American troops may operate
against bandits.
Finally, Carranza must sign an
Agreement guaranteeing protection to
Americans and their property in Mex
1 ico.
Following a conference to-day he
tween Secretary <.f state Lansing and
Secretary Tumulty, it was said that the
names of American members of the
commission probably would be an
nounced after to-morrow's Cabinet
meeting. Officials admitted to-day that
C.arranza was getting uneasy" over
this government's delay in naming its
delegates.
It was snid on high authority to-day
I that the administration expects Car- !
r.mza will meet the conditions exacted
bv the l nited States government, and
j that Pershing's, troops will soon be I
| withdrawn and sent Into camp near 101
[ Paso.
n.ANDITS DKF'K.tT t'OMM.V.VI)
OK <;<?\ EH.VME.VI' TIt OO I'M
101. PASO. TEX.. August 21 ?A force
of sixty Villa bandits engaged and de- |
fen ted a larger command of govern- !
nient troops in the vicinity of Santa
j Ysabel, Chihuahtm, last Friday, accord
ing to private dispatches here to-day. i
1 The de facto command approximated j
100 meu. and lost twenty, while the
outlaws under .1. Domingucz. lost but
I welve.
The government troops, commanded
by Colonel Carlos Carranza. a nephew
of i he first chief, had been pursuing
the bandits west along the line of the
Mexican Northwestern Railway. The.
out la ws reached a secluded canyon, and.
choosing their positions, gave battle,
routing tlie Carranza command
Reports received hero to-day said
a number of Mexican revolutionists
had crossed the frontier into Mexico j
near Presidio, Tex., and were concon- '
trating a force of several hundred men
near Nngal, south of OJlnaga.
MEXICAN ENVOY PI.E1><;KS
t 'O-OI'KII ATION OK I'A Itlt AV/.A
Al SPIN, I EN., August 21.?General
?luan Antonio Acosta. special envo\ of
tho tie facto .Mexican government to
day conforrrd with Governor Ferguson j
and assured him of the desiie of Gen
eral CarraiiKa for a continuance of the
good will and peace between the United ]
States and Mexico General A cost a'? >
mission was to discuss plans for co j
operation howl -en Texas ami M< \iian
authorilfc-s for iho protection of the
holder. Il<- was assured that Texas
officials would co-operate with Mexican
border officials.
General Acosta left to-night for
Nuovo Laredo, Mex.
Mil ABOUT TO JOIN
FORCES WITH ENTENTE
Itnicwcil Reports of Kntry Into War
on Si<l?* of Allies CJiven
Wide frcdrncp.
NlttjOTIATING WITH IttSSlA
Could Give Important Matciiltl Aid.
More Than 500,000 Troops Mobil
l/.ci]?Germany and Austria May
Scud I'ltiniatuin to liukliarest.
l.oNDON. August 2!.?The opening 01
i h< .-illioil offensive at Saloniki uns
been ?li o signal for renewed reports
that Koumania if at. last about to throw
in her lot with the entente. These re
port.; are more circumstantial than
before, and German press comment**
:ii>l <:i> that they are far from being
?I?j?I of foundation One Herlin news
paper declares that Roiimani.i already
hat Joined the allies, and that plans are
i being laid for the inarch of a Russian
army through Roumanian territory.
Major Moraht, the German military
critic, also believes that Roumania is
negotiating with Russia and hints at
an ultimatum to Rukharest from Gcr
inaii.v and Austria.
The entry of Itoumania into the .vat
Ion the side of the entente would mean
(the forcing of another link in the
chain of f<>< s surrounding the central
powers. The material aid which Uou
inania could niv?? would lie of an im
portant character. She has had be
tween 500.00M and fiOO.OOO troops mo
bilized for nearlv a year, and her army
is reputed to be one of the host
equipped and trained in l-'urope.
Apart from possible Russian re-en
forcenient Itoumania would be In a po
sition to deal a powerful blow in con
junction with the allies' drivo from the
south.
It has been generally undertsood P.os
sia has been willinc to concede the
Province of Ressarahia, the population
of which is largely Roumanian, in re
turn for Roumanian co-operation in
the war. Uessarabia is IS.OOfl miles
s'niare in extent and has a population
of 2.0( 0,000.
Siri ATIOX IV KOI MAMA
khon ?;i:itu\N soritcics
RKRI.IX, August 21 i via Rondon, Au
gust 22).?Bukharest dispatches to
German newspapers indicate that the
situation in Itoumania with regard to
that country's stand in the war con
tinues active, but with a crisis not
appreciably nearer. Kfforts of Take
Jotiescu. Minister of the Interior; M.
i Kilipesco and the Mille croup to have
Hull mania Join the entente powers are
being checked l>y M. Carp, leader of
the Conservative party; Alexander
Marghiloman and M. MaJoresco. who
want Roumanin to remain neutral
Seemingly, say the dispatches, ihe
conservatives are gaining slightly.
German public opinion apparently is
not alarmed at the prospect of Rou
manla's entering the war.
GREAT WAR GAME BEGINS
l.nrKi'H V umber of Ships lOvcr As
sembled on < mint for Strategic
Purposes Taking Part.
N'i:\V YORK. August 21.?Twenty
seven ships of the Atlantic Fleet, many
carrying civilian sailors, steamed out
of Narrangansett Ray to engage in a
war game that is expected to bring
Into operation the greatest number of
ships ever assembled off this coast for
strategic purposes. rt ear-Admiral
Knight, who will act as umpire, was
on board the Dreadnought Pennsyl
I van in.
The ships which sailed to-day will
Join fifteen battleships and other naval
units to form the attacking force under
Admiral Mayo. The entire reserve of
submarines and three divisions of de
stroyers, also carrying civilian sailors,
will try to keep the "enemy" from
effecting a landing somewhere between
Eastport and Capo llatteras. *The de
fenders will bo commanded by Rear
Admiral James M. llelni.
According to tho plans which were
made by tho Naval War College, the
maneuvers will end on August 28. un
less a decisive result i.? reached be
fore then. All ships are due In N'ar
ragansett Ray the 2Sth, and many will
i sail many days later for the Southern
drill i^roundi.
CUTS OFF EARS OF CAPTIVES
llniiilello I rllie. Vllln Chief, With (lun
llnndft, Commit* Atrocities
on Pr Isonrrs.
101. I 'ASO, TK.V. August 21.?The
story of a Villa chief, with his own
hands, cutting off the ears of twenty
prisoners, who later were shot, is told
by a rescued prisoner in 101 Deinocrata,
of Chihuahua City, copies of which ar
rived here to-day. The chief, who
committed the atrocity was Baudello
t'rlbe, commander during Villa's r<*
; cent raid on .limine*/.
Tribe captured a small body of de
facto government soldiers, according
to the witness, and called on them to
Join his band. Twenty failed to re
spond. Finding them stubborn, Urlbo
trimmed their cars and then ordered
a captain to shoot them. This order
was carried out just as a rescuing party
came up.
The bodies were, recovered by the
government troops.
CRUDE PETROLEUM OUTPUT
, Product ion in llll,*i, Amounting to
I -1211,*112.07.1 llurrclN, (irrntral In
History of Industry.
WASHINGTON*. August 21. The
world's production of crude petroleum
in Il42fi.S92.rt73 barrels?was the
greatest in the history of the industry.
Figures of the geological survey to
day show that the output was greater
by 2S,104,:io7 barrels than the previous
record in 1014.
i The hulk of the increase in output
in l!?l*? came from the I'nited States
land Mexico, though Russia, Argentine
and Japan recorded significant Rains.
The United States led in production
with 2S1.104.1 04 barrels; Russia came
second, with CS.u4S.06'.' barrels and
Mexico, third, with 32,910,50S barrels.
GREAT OFFENSIVE :
ON SALONIK! FRONT
STILL DEVELOPING
British and French Pushing
Towards Bulgarian
Frontier.
DRIVE FOR MONASTIR
OPENED BY SERBIANS
| Italian Troops to Take Part in
I Campaign Just Started
in Balkans.
?
FIGHTING IN VKItlH X IlKGION
Germans Making Determined KfTort.s
t?? Regain Village of
Fleury.
LONDON", August -1.?The creat of
fensive opened by the allies on Sun
flay on the Saloniki front is develop
ing. hut no decisive action has been
fought. The British and French, ad
vancing on tlie right, have crossed the
Struma, pushing northeastward to
i wards the Bulgarian frontier. At the
j same time the Serbians, who have
j opened a drive for Monastir, report the
capture of Bulgarian first-line trenches.
On the extreme left, however, imme
diately south of Monastir, they have
suffered a reverse, and have evacuated
, the Greek town of Banica.
in the center, at the mouth of the
great valley of the Vardar, th? main
highway through Serbia, violent ar
tillery action is in progress. Jt was
down this valley that the Teuton-Bul
garian force made their vigorous ad
vance, and, according to military ex
perts. its possession is vital to who
ever holds Serbia.
Reports from Saloniki say that
Italian troops have landed there, and
will Join in the general offensive.
This, if corroborated, means that Italy
has finally decided formally to declare
war on Germany, as the Germans are
admittedly directing the Bulgarian
campaign. At certain points on the
front Berlin reports tlie Bulgarians on
the offensive, but this is interpreted
as a move for political purposes, and
not. as a serious attack against Sa
loniki. A desire to affect public opin
ion in Roumania and influence the ap
proaching Greek elections is the mo
tive behind Bulgaria's aggressive ac
tion, in the opinion of the allied capi
tals.
Fierce fighting in the region of th?
Stokhod, where the Russian advance
menaces ICovel, continues. The battle
on the crest <>f the < *a rpa thia lis also
? rages, both sides claiming minor suc
cesses.
On the western front, there has been
n? material change in the situation
since the allies started their great at
tack on Friday. German counterat
tacks at several points along the Brit
! ish lines, the War office asserts, met
i with no ?ss The Germans also
; have made a powerful effort to reca.p
' ture Fleury, in the Verdun sector, but
I Paris reports a complete repulse.
I Tlie repeated unofficial reports that
I Portugal was about to take an active
{ share on the European battle field ap
parently are confirmed by an antioune#
Iment from Paris that a British-Freud.
! military committee lias been sent to
Lisbon. Dispatches from Portugal
have iles ribc?l military preparations ot
a very extensive character, but there
has been nothing to indicate the put
ting of men under arms.
OKKKNSIVIO I. A I N< IITll AI.ONf!
MNTIIll', SAI.OMKl FUOVt
PARIS, August 21.?A general of
; fenslve along tlie entire Saloniki front
was launched on Sunday by the allies,
according to a French War Office state
ment. Tlio Serbians have captured the
Bulgarian first line on the left of the
battle front, but have lost the town
of Banica, south of Fiorina.
On the center and right wing heavy
fighting is in progress. The Brllitdi
1 French forces have crossed the Struma
' and a>o attacking Bulgarian position
north west of Zcres. The statement fol
lows :
"On August the allied forces at
1 Saloniki took the offensive on flic en
tire front. On th<- righi wing the An
glo-French forces have crossed the
Struma, and are attacking the ? nemy
on She K .i vakli- Kaleiidru-TopaIsvii
front, northwest of Sere.-. The.v ar?
in contact w-lh a portion stvongl.v
held I?>? the enemy ;it IVirakli 'eight
I kilometers southwest of Oemir-11 iss.ir).
"In the center violent artillery ac
j tions are taking place on the south
em slope of the Behs .Mountain and
on both batiks ot the Vardar. In the,
region extending from t.ake Dniran to
the Vardar the allies have consolidated
positions tIn-\ occupied on the presid
ing day.
"Oil the left wing, in the moun
tainous region between the <'erra and
Moglenlca Rivers the Serbian troops
have taken the first-lino trenches of
the Bulgarians on the heights of
Kikiiruz, ami have occupied the forts
' of Kainiakealar. On the extreme left,
after iiifilclit.g heavy losses on the
I>ut^a i iau.s debouching from Florin;'
on Banica. they had to a*>amh u this
latter place, ami have estaMls'ied them
selves on heights situated to the east.
The battle is continuing."
ATT \l l\ It ^ (IKIItiANS
i >i a: t:i?i \ ri:i.>
1.1 ' \ i >< >\. Aug ?: " -1 -To-night's
War ??: 11 ? i mi'in ic.i tiou says:
"Near the .Mo>|iiet farm (near Thiep
\.?1*. the I'liemj attempted to niuke an
it la. t< up a small scale, whb'h was
Immeiliatelv repulsed. Otherwise there
<s little tn r. p.-: t except artillery ac
tivity by both sides, at times very
dmit
?< >ur arlillcrx lire was vcr. eiYec
11\ Southward <?f Thtepxal the
enemy's trenches wre severely dam
aged. and a conflagration was canned
in one of the enemy's batteries, which
burnecj flerctly for some tlm A hois
