TFfN ATNTC I A 1, ' E D 1 T I'O-N '
1
u
iErttner
NIGHT
EXTRA
tmtmg
NIGHT
EXTRA
i' I
1
!t '
IVOli. H. NO. 293
Iercury soars
10 97, PAST HIGH
MARK YESTERDAY
FJN) or 100 May Be Reached
jy JtJBiUlo BUJioou iii ivctuiu
Heat
f-Rr -HUMIDITY A RELIEF
Day's FicrctHcat Record
as Told by Thermometer
Today
Tetterday
71
71
71
70
70
70
70
72
75
78
82
86
89
91
92
95.
Midnight 83
1 n.
2 a.
8 a.
4 a.
82
82
81
81
81
82
83
85
87
90
92
93
94
96
97
5 a.
6 a.
7 a.
I
8 a. m
0 a. m
10 a. m
11 a. m
Noon ..
1 p. m
2 p. m
3 p. m
Jl ft. ra. 3 n. tn.
Humidity 70 42
Sensiblo temperature. 77 77
Ttii "nilble" temperature la known as
the
lit
for
,hi water-bulb temperature, and Indicate!
aeai one Kciuaur irai a .tier aiiawinK
traporatlon.
Tie mercury touched 97 at 3 o'clock today,
s'atceedlng the Buramor's highest mark, first
attained at 3:16 yesterday.
Forecaster Bliss eald early today that the
fcaperature might run up to 99 or 100
More the sun goes down.
f All day. hour by hour, the readings have
teen averaging several degrees more than
ykterday. The registration was 14 de-
"'trees above normal at 8 o'clock this morn-
Jo;, when It showod 86, and then It woo
10 degrees hotter than yesterday at tho
tame hour.
This average has not been maintained nl-
tofether. At 11 o'clock the comparison had
dropped to 6 degrees In favor of this day's
beat record; at noon with 93 It -was 4 de
grees above yesterday: at 1 o'clock with 94
If was t degrees more than at 1 o'clock yes-
;l,trdy, and at 2 with 96 It was 4 degrees
j wore than at 2 o'clock yesterday, and equal
- to'thit record-breaking day's highest mark.
1 The chances aro that the temperature
wm let; up soveral notches before evening.
i " "A.rellef-front-tho situation, however, Is
' Ok. lok humidity. At 8 a. m. It was nor-
It'tSil with a 70 degree malrk,tand at 3 p. m.
BX'bai dropped to 42 and reasonable com-
fert
B. Potter, 38 years old, 2E4K East
irrls street, was overcome by the heat
ill at work In the Falrmount Foundry
Cenplny. Second and Duncannon streets.
U was taken to the Jewish Hospital.
louls Pearl, 27 years old, C811 Webster
rtreet, was overcome while passing tho
Isirty-second street and Woodland avenue
tfee station. Ho was taken to the Unl-
Milty Hospital.
jrBessle Sculler, 23 years, colored, 1332
,0Ut street, was overcomo at Broad and
itaee streets while looking at the L B. P.
0. E. W. parade. She was taken to the
"fchnemann Hospital.
i leaterday was the hottest August 21 In
years, and all Indications point toward
Cantlnned on Tate Two, Column Twa
IMNNING TO REDUCE
IA,
COST OF INTERSTATE
PLAGUE QUARANTINE
gttinsyivania and Delaware
'Health Authorities at Work
on Method for Preventing
Duplication of Work
BY VOLUNTEERS BLOOD
hcord of Baby Plague
I From Midnight to 2 P. M.
Jfw eases in Philadelphia..., 2
'garths In Philadelphia 3
Jwr cases in New Jersey 121
W cases in New York 118
Jwths -In W,ir Vn1- no
" "" ""
VtnlH, r i i i
iSftthtr Burtinil inrnrnmt "SVitV nnA
iWmed warm tonight," U that the
F" agamat xnjanme paralysis vnii
tampered by the heat wave.
SA.ka whereby needless expense in the
IZOQ InfantllA nat-nlvaf trtmv h vrf hv
mania and Delaware Is being-
out today at Chester by Dr. J, M.
all. In charge of Quarantine Jn PhlU
la. snA lhp,M tn vmwtm .-
' i T -m ri ,!! .Ml, W V
Bt tin Delawar health department
Campbell represents Pr. Samuel O.
Health Commiaaioner nt Finiuvl.
i St tha Ayrffnim
Ku i1011011 ta ien Will be. effected
vMung up' tn the work pf enforcing
CaaUatwJ en Par Beren, Column t
THE WEATHER
KH PhOadtlpM and vtdnUvFair
'MWeA with coaler in the after-
mna at niaMl light, southerly
. txcominff westerly Wednesday
LSKoxa or day.
gy-n.. ilS a.m.rnoott rUi.. ........
I41 sivzs tidb calwoxa.
. . cH88Tmrr strbet,
.SttWUTOBJI AT SUCK HOT.
Ml hi is i i'i -il AV 4l 5
IVM Ml 64 1 Ai 071
RAILROAD HEADS CONSIDERING
FRANK TnUMBUM.
Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad.
ALTOBD 11. SMITH
New Tork Central Railroad.
Tho three-scoro railroad presidenta now In Washington nt President Wilson's request because of tho threat
ened railroad striko havo appointed theso eight men as n committee to consider in detail tho nation's chief
executive's plan to avert tho impending tie-up.
MAYO'S 'RED' FLEET ATTACKS
'BLUE' IN ANNUAL 8IIAM FIGHT
Rear Admiral Holm, With Superior
Force, Dofends Coast
WASHINGTON, Aug. 22-Ttear Admiral
Henry T. Mayo, with 16 capital ships, six
destroyers and six transports, this after
noon Is -approaching the north Atlantlo
coast with his fleet for nn "Invasion" of the
United Stntcs.
Tho Navy Department announced that
Admiral Mayo's fleet at 6 o'clock this
morning began tho nnnunl sham battle
against a defensive fleet consisting of 12
capital ships, 17 dostroyers, seven cruisers
and Ave submarines, under Rear Admiral
James M. Helm In the naval war game.
Bear Admiral Helm's fleet, the "blues," Is
expected to protect tho Atlantlo coast from
Eastport, Mo., to Capo Hattoras, N. C,
from the "red," the Invading fleet, which,
at 6 o'clock, was 600 miles out at sea.
CALL ASKS COURT
TO FORBID POLICE
WATCH ON CLUB
Magistrate Brings Injunc
tion Proceedings to Re
strain Quarantine
"RIGHTS VIOLATED," PLEA
Application for an Injunction to restrain
tha police from continuing a police quar
antine of the Twentieth Ward Republican
Club, 1627 North Broad street, was filed
this afternoon In Common Pleas Court
No. B.
The application was filed by "Mike"
Spatola, an attorney, at the Instigation
of Magistrate "Joe" Call, notorious "straw
ball Judge." The Twentieth Ward Repub
lican Club Is Call's pet gambling organiza
tion, and his "Judicial" dignity was con
siderably upset last Sunday when the police
Invaded the "sacred precincts" of the In
stitution and Blapped on a quarantine.
Members of the club are raising a fund
to fight tho quarantine.' This fund now
amounts to $1000.
Argument on the application for an ln
junction will probably be heard later In
the week. In the petition for tha Injunc
tion. It Is set forth that the charter rights
of members have been violated by Uw quar
antine.
There was an Immediate change in the
character of the quarantine when the salient
points In the petition became) known. The
policeman stationed at tho door was Instruct
ed by his superiors to admit all persons
having membership cards. Heretofore, no
one was allowed In the club except the
chef and the steward. Even "his honor."
the "Judge," was barred from the clubhouse
when he came down In a huff from Atlantic
City last Sunday to discover fwho dared to
put cops at the door of my club."
"Judge" Call returned today to his ofllco
at Twelfth street and Qlrard avenue from
his summer home In Atlantlo City. He
looked as though he had enjoyed but little
sleep; Tl?e rims of hl eyelids were reo,
he was very nervous and Irritable, and he
complained of the beat.
"Ana you going to resign as a result of
your Indictment? Call, was asked.
"I shall sttok by the old stand as before,"
snapped back the "Judge."
'As an Indicted Magistrate, are you go
ing to continue to hold bearings and pass
Judgment on defendants brought before
your
'l repeat." said Call, "I am going to
stick to the old stand."
"Then you are not going to resign?
"I have nothing to say. will have my
say later on, believe mo. No more now,
boyay do more. This Is the first Interview
I bare given out and be content with It"
He waved the reporter out of his office.
Word was passed through the "under
ground wrd heeler cable" today that
"Judge" Call had developed a It-horsepower
fighting- mood since he departed yesterday
for his ootuge-by-the-saa in Atlantlo City,
following his indictment by the August
Grand Jury for malfeasance In office. Call
told some of his friend at Atlantlo that
he dldnt 1t "tlnkerl toad" for the mid
summer Jolt which raa banded him by the
Grand Jury J but he mad It plain that he
was mad from his 1)U collar to his lltf
shoes at the nodlgnlty" of th police quar-
Coatiswhl on Vox KiS (y-JrfiM sTen
w. w. ATrannunT
Yennsrlraala nallroad.
DANIEL. WIItAJlD
Baltimore and Ohio nallroad.
IIALB HOLDEN R. B. LOVETT
Burlington Railroad, apokeatnan. Union Paelflo.
SLAV AND ITALIAN TROOPS
RUSHED TO SAL0NICA TO
JOIN IN BALKAN "PUSH"
Bulgars Continue Raid
Into Greece, Taking
Five More Places
A TEN-NATION FIGHT
Six Allied Powers Lined Up
Near Salonica Against Four
' of Teutonic Compact
SALONICA, Aug. 22.
A strong force of Russian troops was
landed here todykto Sght wltrutho All!
against tho Austro-Qerman and Bulgarian
armies In Macedonia.
There was a great demonstration, on the
part of the Trenoh, who marohod through
the streets singing the Marseillaise, the
Russian hymn, and shouting "Vivo Rusxle."
The reception accorded the Russian sol
diers was o most solemn one. General
Sarrall, commander-in-chief of the Allied
forces la the Balkans, reviewed the troops
as they marched through the city.
It la expected that tha Russians will be
moved forward Immediately to the battle
front, where violent fighting Is In progress
over a line 150 miles wide.
The Russian force landed here Is of an
Infantry brigade, 6000 men, but this Is
only an Initial contingent and others are
expected.
There are now troops of eight nationali
ties aligned against each other in the Mace
donian field of operations. On the Teutonic
side are the Germans, the Austro-Hun-garlans
and the Bulgarians. Opposing
them Is an army of more than 700,000 men
comprised of British. French. Serbians,
Italians. Russians and Montenegrins.
While the Bulgarians have continued to
gain steadily In their drive on Kavala they
have lost ground on their center, where the
Allied forces are pressing northward along
the Struma and Vardar valleys.
On their right wing, the Teuton Allies
aro exerting strong pressure against the
Entente forces In the district around Fior
ina. In that section tho Bulgarians ad
vanced along the railway leading toward
Salonica from Monastlr.
The reorganized Serbian army, under
command of the Serbian Crown Prince, has
been taking a leading part In the opera
tions and was successful in driving the
Bulgarians from trench elements on the
heights of Kllkuruz.
On the center where the Anglo-French
forces crossed the Demlrhlssar-Dedeagatch
Railway they are at grips with the Bulga
rians In the Kapakll Mountains, northeast
of Seres.
ATHENS, Aug. 22. A second contingent
of Italian troops has landed at Salonica,
according to dispatches received here to
day.
Earlier In the war landing parties of
Russian and Italian marines co-operated
Nrlth Anglo-French Infantry in. occupying a
small Greek fort near Salonica.
SOFIA VIA BERLIN, Aug. J J. Official
announcement ftha occupation of Demlr
htssar, In Greek Macedonia, was made to
day by the Bulgarian War Office.
The left wing of the Bulgarian forces
has begun a general offensive. On their
right wing the Bulgarian column which
captured Fiorina has pushed forward IS
miles, occupying ' Eicchlsou.
In the Vardar Valley, the statement says,
Anglo-Frenoh attacks lasting for lo' days
were all repulsed.
The official communication, which Is
dated August 20, follows;
On account of the activities or the
Entente forces In the Vardar Valley,
extending east of Struma and north
of Tachlno Lake, our left wing began
a general offensive on August IS. The
Bulgarian troops advanced along the
Struma Valley- and occupied Demirhls
sar. After an engagement near
Seres we repulsed the Anglo-French
forces on the right bank of the Struma
and occupied the left bank between
Bulkova and Tachlno Lake. Follow'
lng out our plana, detachments are ad
vancing between the Struma and the
Mesta, la tb Vardar Valley the Bng
ltsh and Stench have been attacking
CtfcUnwvl , na. Calmse Tbt
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, AUGrUST 22, 1910
WILSONS PLAN
rAmpAx HAnnisoM
Bouthern Railroad.
B. P. niPkET
Santa Fa.
Russia and Italy Join
Allies' Balkan Drive
rnHE Allies offensives In tho Bal-
knns has had n smashing start.
Events nro rapidly developing.
Whllo the Serbs and French are at
tacking tho ccntorof the Bulgarian
front north of Salonica, thuB
counterbalancing the Bulgarian of
fensive at the wing3, Italian and
Russian troops havo landed at
Salonica to Join tho Allies thero.
On tho Balkan front six allied
nations, Serbs, French, British,
Italians, Russians and Montenegrins,!
aro lined up against Bulgarians.
Germans, Austro-Hungarians and
possibly ffurks. for what may. provo
tho turning point in tho war situa
tion. The fact that even Italy and
Russian havo Joined tho Allies in tho
Balkans may lead to tho interven
tion of Rumania against the Central
Powers, thus bringing Into he con
flict a powerful, decisive factor,
which will further emphasize tho
plan of tho Allies to eliminate Austria-Hungary
from tho war, thus
leaving Germany virtually isolated,
nlono against tho rising military
power of tho Entento Allies.
DUMA TO RECEIVE
MEASURE LIFTING
YOKE FROM JEWS
Cadet Leader Promises Bill
After Visiting Three
Allied Nations
PREDICTS ITS VICTORY
By WILLIAM PHILIP SIMMS
PETROQRAD, Aug. 22. A bill to abol
ish tha pals and give to Jews the same
rights that other -Rusaian subjects enjoy
will be Introduced In the Imperial Duma
when that body convenes In November.
Prof. Paul Mlllukov, leader of the Ca
dets, said so today upon his return from
a visit to England, Franca and Italy with
other members of the Russian House.
"This bill has the support of the Progres
ses party In the Dumai therefore of the
majority," said Mlllukov. "It will contain
three essential parts. The first has for
Its objeot tha removal of the pale (within
which the Jews of Russia, wlh a few ex
ceptions, hava been compelled to make
their homes), thus enabling them to live
wherever they choose. The second will
remove some of the educational limitations
placed on the Jew, and the third will make
It possible for htm to choose any profes
sion or trade he cares to.
"While abroad I had long talks with the
Rothschilds, both In England and Franca;
with Professor Levy, of the Sorbonne, In
Parts, and with other representative Jews.
At the coming session I shall acquaint all
the members with what I was told. We
realize that Russia's dealing, and, Indeed,
the Allies' dealings, have been affected by
Russia's policy In the Jewish question."
The bill to remove the limitations placed
on Jews will not pass, however, without
considerable opposition. The opponents say
that the Jews, being keener businessmen,
would soon have the peasants at their
mercy.
Particularly do Russian leaders resent
outside Interference in settling the Jewish
problem. Count Kokovstow, exrPrlme Min
ister and Minister of Finance, expressed
this attitude, saying:
"In ths United States you force south
ern people to pay taxes -which you use In
huge sums to pay pensions to northern
people exclusively. But you wouldn't like
it If we refused to have any dealings with
you until you treated southerners Just as
you treat northernera"
Datesraan Awards Torresdala Job
Director Dalesman, pf the Department of
Publlo Works, today awarded a contract for
grading and- riprap work In the new sedi
mentation basin at the Torreedajb filtration
plant to ths Snare ft Trlest Company for
QUICK
PHILLIES 1st. G 0 0 10 11
PITTSBURGH. 2 0 0 0 0 0
Mayor and Killefcr Harmon and Schmidt.
SARATOGA RACING RESULTS
First race, for 3-yearolds and up, selling, purso $300, G furlonga
Port Light, 107, Schuttlnger, 10 to 1, 11 to 5, Tto 10, won; Silica,
113, Mink, 1 to 2, 1 to 8, out. second; Blanchitn, 00, Martin, SO to
1, 7 to 1, 7 to 2, thiid. Time, 1.12 3-5.
HOGS $11.30 PER 100 POUNDS' HIGHEST SINCE 18C3
CHICAGO, Aug. 22. Hog prices hit tho highest mark since 1803
today when choice hogs sold in tho local livestock market for SI 1.30
per 100 pounds. Heavy buying by Canadian put chasers for ship
ment to the soldiers in Europe, according to tho packers, is tho cause.
ARCHBISHOP SPALDING SERIOUSLY ILL
i v
PEORIA, 111., Aug. 22. Archbishop John Lnncastcr Spalding
Is in a serious condition today as the result of the heat and a gen
eral decline that began 10 days ago. Members of his family and tho
attending physician admit they have fears for the outcome. The
archbishop Is 84 years old and very feeble. Archbishop Spalding is
one of tho best-known Catholic prelates In the United States.
CABINET OPTIMISTIC O.N STRIKE CRISIS
t
WASHINGTON, Aug. 22. The sttike situation found its way
into tho Cabinet mooting tdday, the first tho President has had wltu
his advisors since ho took up his efforts ns-mediator. Strong con
viction prevailed in tho Cabinet that tho railroads would accept
tho President's proposition.
ONLY GUNS ACTIVE ALONG ISONZO FRONT
ROME, Aug. 22. Only artillery duels were reported .in tho
official statement Issued by tho Itnlian War Office today. Each side
dliectcd its fire with a view to preventing the enemy from consol
idating now positions. Austro-Hungarlan artillery directed violent
shell fire on Gorizia yesterday. Projectiles struck a hospital, wound
ing members of, the medical staff.
DELEGATES FROM HERE TO PRISON CONGRESS NAMED
The appointment of the following Philadelphia delegates to rep
resent Pennsylvania at tho American Prison Congresa at Buffalo,
N. Y., October 7, was announced by Governor Brumbaugh at Harris
burg today: Albert H. Love, Joseph P. Byers, Colonel R. E. Holtz,
'R. J. McKenty, Florence Bayard Kane, all of tho Pennsylvania Pub
lic Charities Association.
QUICK CONSIDERATION OF SHIPPING BILL ABANDONED
WASHINGTON, Aug. 22. Hope of Immediate consideration of the Administra
tion shipping bill by ths House was abandoned today when Representative Greene,
of Massachusetts, threatened to make a point of no quorum. The bill was brought
up by Representative Alexander, chairman of the House Committee on Merchant
Marine, who moved that the House concur In the Senate amendments. Represent
ative Greene immediately objected and declared that if further consideration of the
bill was pressed he would demand a quorum.
HOUSE ADOPTS NEW ARMY APPROPRIATION BILL
WASHINGTON, Aug. 22. The House this afternoon adopted without a roll
call the army appropriation bill as reintroduced by Chairman Hay. It Is the same
bill vetoed by President Wilson, save for the elimination of the section exempting'
retired army officers from the provisions
tion the President objected.
STOCKS TAKE JUMP; U. S. STEEL SELLS AT 962
NEW TORK, Aug. 22. The publlo Jumped Into the bull market on the Stock
Exchange today to on extent not noted' since the wild advances of the war brides
several months ago, and United States Steal again set a record, selling at 96H,
while advances of 1 to 12 points were made elsewhere. Commission houses were
swamped under orders and sales for the opening hour were nearly 400,000 shares.
Approximately, one-quarter of this trading was In' Steel common, the barometer
of (he market. Railroad stocks Joined tn the upward movement, though their gains
were not so marked as were the advances In steel and equipment stocks. Bethlehem
Steel again held attention, with a Jump of 12V4 to 410.
TWO ITALIAN, ONE NORSE SHIP SUNK BY U-BOATS
LONDON, Aug. 22. The Italian steamships EYir, $23 tons, and Tea, 6395 tons,
and the Norwegian steamship Rufus have been sunk by submarines, say dispatches
to Lloyd's today. The crew of the Rufus was saved and landed at Amsterdam.
The Erlx hailed from Traponl and the Tea from Genoa.
U. S. WILL PROBE CARTAGE CHARGES IN CITIES
WASHINGTON, Aug, 22. A new Investigation bearing on the Industrial situa
tion In tha UnlteM States Is about to be undertaken by the Census Bureau. The
Inquiry will be to determine the cost of cartage In American cities, and It declared
by experts to be of the utmost Importance In Its relation to the high cost of living;
and the wages of labor, Experts of the Census Bureau believe that the extreme
retail' prices of commodities In common use art due largely to the high cost of
city cartage.
KNIGHTS OP MOTOR WORLD AID WAR ON INCOMPETENTS
Director Wilson will be supported by the Knights of the Motor World, a new
secret organization of automobile men, in his crusade to rid the city of Incompetent
and careless motor drivers. Ninety per cent of motorcar accidents are due to the
Ignorance of the drivers and 10 per cent to drunkenness, according to Lee Wolf,
one of the officers of the organization. He would eliminate the first fault by pro
scribing a written examination and road test of all applicants for a driver's license,
and the drunkenness he would euro by imprisoning; any one found under the influ
ence of liquor while operating- a machine.
WILSON VETOES BILL AND PROTECTS FOREST RESERVES
WASHINGTON, Aur. 22. president Wilson today vetoed a bill providing that
land within five miles of a city or town may be purchased for parks, cemeteries and
sewerage, it being permissible to take this land from land reserved for forest pur
poses. The bill is an amendment to one passed In WO allowing: Incorporated cnio
and towns to boy from the Government publlo lands for parks or cemeteries within'
three miles of the town or city, The President objects to. any lnfrtogBftat snaa
-forest reserves.
Comsisht, 1918, r tbi Fraug Lxoen Coiiraire.
NEWS
f
of the articles of war. It was to this sec
' PRICE 0203 CENT
PLAN TO AVERT
STRIKE SOUGHT
IN NEW MOVES
Railroad Executives Seek
Further Compromise o .
Demands
ASK DIRECTORS' ADVICE
Eight Magnates to Grapple
With Great Railroad Crisis
,TTALE HOLDEN, president of
' tho Chlcngo, Burlington and
Quiticy; W. W. Attcrbury, Pennsyl
vania; Fairfax Harrison, Southern;
B. S. Lovctt, Union Pacific; E. P.
Ripley, Santa Fo; A. H. Smith, New
York Central; Frank Trumbull.
Chesapeako and Ohio, and Daniol
Wlllard, Baltimore and Ohio.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 22, Tho rail,
way presidenta' committee of eight re
ported to tho full membership of presi
dents at 1 o'clock this afternoon that It
had been unablo to reach a conclusion.
The committee agreed to have luncheon
at tho Metropolitan Club at 2 o'clock
and resume its session afterward.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 22. Compromise
and modification of demands and proposals
that will result In averting the threatened
strike of 400,000 railroad employes were
Indicated today, following tho tentative re
jection of President Wilson's plan by fifty
or more railroad executives.
There was a feeling of optimism In the
capital ns events showed not a positive
refusal to accept the President's scheme,
but a wish further to study the question
and reach some basis of settlement
That tho situation Is serious, however.
Is not disputed. This Is evidenced In the
step taken by the railroad heads to "sound'
tha railroad directors and financial Inter
ests on tha situation. Telegrams have been
sent to the big money Interests, which
means that now the country's captains of
finance have taken a hand In tho negotiant
tlons. t
The situation 1st - f
Ec.ht of the leading railroad xecu- '
tlves have been constituted a com- .
mlttee to formulate''r,!rtilUmWnti.-cf"
facta, upon which the railway heads ;
are 'to consider recommendations to
President Wilson.
This committee's findings are ex-
pected to suggest certain modifications ,
. that the President may accept and that '
he may enforce -upon the brother- "
hoods. ',
The President Is not expected to be r
' wholly deaf to suggestions of further .
compromise. j
Tha brotherhoods, gaining their main
contention, are not expected to refuse '
modifications that will assure the rail-- '
roads a fair deal. , '
It is believed that a test of the eight i
hour day scheme will be agreed to, j
carrying with It assurances that ths '
railroads may have fair chance to Ji
prove its Impracticability, pledges that '
the principle of arbitration be not de- ''
stroyed and even that compulsory '
mediation might be a guarantee for ths
future.
TO FORM STATEMENT.
On tha shoulders of eight of the biggest
railroad executives In the country waa
placed the responsibility for the considera
tion by the railroads of President Wilson's
proposal.
The railroad presidents today delegated
to a committee the formulation of the
statement of facts upon which they would
consider tha Impending crisis. Tha com
mittee received no authority to formulate
a counter-proposal to President Wilson or
to recommend definitely acceptance or re
jection of tha President's demands. Headed
by Hale Hold en, president of the C, B. and
Q., tha committee was named, It was' an
nounced, for "general consideration of tha
questions Involved."
The committee went to work at once,
and while the executives generally threshed
over various mooted points the eight men
sought to weed out of tha situation all'
Irrelevant and unimportant details. They,
proposed to confine the discussion of the
situation by the railroad presidents to the
bare essentials, and 'to this end they en
deavored to eliminate all collateral ques
tions. The committee will lay before the
railroad executives a statement of the con
ditions which must be met.
COMMITTEE NAMED.
In announcing the appointment of the
committee, ths railroad executives Issue!
the following statement:
Mr, Hale Hqlden. president of the
Burlington, as spokesman for the roll--road
executives who are conferring
with President Wilson on. the railroad
wage problem, announced this morning '
that a committee, from the threescore
executives now In Washington has been - '
named for the general consideration of
the questions involved.
The members of the committee, -are ,,
imilllllUHIIIIllllUlnim'i...
Make Sure of It
rnELL; your newsdealer, car-
rler or newsboy to reserve,
you copy of the Evening
Ledger every day. After Sep
tember 1 newspaper venders
win order Just the number of
copies they are likely to sou,
because all unsold copies can
not be returned after that
date. This order was -made
necessary by tha shortage of
newsprint paper. Setter sake
sure of. jour copy by leaving
a standing order todax. It's a
good thing to do. since whoa
you order your paper you are
sure of setting It and yon balp,
your newsdealer,, carrier oc
newsboy wi weu. C9nn nvw.
pl&e your rdert t4y,
imtwmwgmmvmwmtmuttufsym
T"1 mil rwjr. n in JIHI-.W.I ngin.ii..i.n. ,
