THE ARIZONA REFUBL
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TV KNIT-SEVENTH YEAE
8 PACES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, AUGUST 22, 191
8 PAGES
VOL. XXH.,.NO. ,W
mi
TRAM
7
7
7
SACK
ARB
DMA ft
Rumania About To Throw In Her Lot With the Entente AlliesWM HEADS'
SEE PRESIDENT
OPENING ALLIED 0FFEKS1VE
. ON 5AL0NIKI FRONT GIVES
RISE HI 11BI REPORTS
AGAINST A
(By Republican A. P. Leased Wire) i
The opening of the allied offensive at Saloniki has been the signal few, j
renewed reports that Rumania is at last about to throw in her lot with the , j
entente. These reports are more circumstantial than before and German press . j
comments indicate that they are far from being devoid of foundation. One ,
Berlin ntKnanf declare ha Rumania alraariv haa ioined the allies and that ! !
i 1 n
DENIES APPLICATION
TO CANCEL REGISTRATION j
.n-
(Special to The Republican) I
TOMBSTONE, Auk. 21 Judge I
Lockwed of the superior court 1
today denied the application of i
James Chaplin of Douglas for a !
writ of mandamus directed against ;
County Recorder Owen K. Murphy, i
to compel him to cancel the regis- 1
tratlon of the applicant an a nun- I
partisan, that he might register as
democrat. I
n
plans are being laid for the march of a Russian army through Rumanian ter
ritory. Major Moraht, the German military critic, also believes that Rumania t
is negotiating with Russia and hints at an ultimatum to Bucharest from Ger- ,
many and Austria.
The entry of Rumania into the war on the side of the entente would mean
the forging of another link in the chain of foes surrounding the central powers,
"the material aid which Rumania could give would be of an important character, i
She has had between 500,000 and 600,000 troops mobilized for nearly a year and I
her army is reputed to be one of the best equipped and trained in Europe. '
Apart from possible Russian reinforcement, Rumania would be in a position
to deal a powerful blow at Bulgaria from the north in conjunction with the
allies' drive from the south. i
it has been generally understood that Russia has been willing to concede
'the province of Bessarabia, the population of which is largely Rumanian, in
return for Rumanian co-operation in the war. Bessarabia is 18,000 miles
square in extent and has'a population of nearly 2,000,000.
The British and French advancing on the right have crossed the Struma,
pushing northeastward tow arris the Bulgarian frontier. At the same time the
Serbians who have opened a drive for Monastir report the capture of Bulgarian
first line trenches. On the extreme left, however, immediately south of Mon
astir, they have suffered a reverse and have evacuated the Greek town of
Banica. In the center, at the mouth of the great valley of the Vardar, the main
highway through Serbia, violent artillery action is in progress. It was down
this valley that the Teuton-Bulgarian forces made their victorious advance, and
according to military experts, its possession is vital to whoever holds Serbia.
Reports from Saloniki say that Italian troops have landed there and will
join in the general offensive. This, if confirmed, means that Italy has decided
formally to declare war on Germany, as the Germans are admittedly directing
the Bulgarian campaign. At certain points on the front Berlin reports the
Bulgarians on the offensive, but London and Paris interpret this as a move for j 0
protective purposes and not as a serious attack against Saloniki. A desire to CJJJXilD PLAGUE
"n peuu.lv up.ri'V.i II numflnii eeu w ere.iuene.a- ir.v piiui.niii)f vj ' j:tv civv
tions is the motive behind Bulgaria's aggressive action, in the opinion of the
allied capitals.
Fierce fighting continues in the region of the Stokhod, on the eastern front,
where the Russian advance menaces Kovel and the German salient at Pinsk.
The battle on the crest of Carpathians also rages, both sides claiming minor
successes.
On the western front there has been no material change in the situation
since the allies started their great attack Friday. German counter attacks
made at several points along the British lines, according to London, met with
no success. The Germans also have made a powerful effort to recapture Fleury,
in the Verdun sector, but Paris reports a complete repulse.
The repeated unofficial reports that Portugal was about to take an active
share on the European battlefield apparently are confirmed by an announce
ment from Paris that British-French military commission has been sent to
Lisbon. Dispatches from Portugal have described military preparations of a
very extensive character, but there has been nothing to indicate the number of
men under arms.
SAYS SUFFRAGE
UNION RAISING
FUNDS FOR HUGHES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 21. The con
gressieinal union for woman suffrage
was charged with Itelng intcr'-slcd
chiefly in restoring the republican
party to power by Senator Th.unav of
l dorado, chatrmun of. the woman suf
frage committee, in a speech today on
the floor of the senate.
The Colorado senator, who favors a
federal suffrage amendment, declared
that the union wax engaged In raising
fundi for the Hughes campaign, ami
had been instrumental In inducing the
nominees to declare in favor of the
amendment in opposition to the re
pu.ilican platform. Mr. Hughes, ne
added, had seized upon suffrage as an
issue because the republican party had
given him no issue for his campaign.
Senator Borah of Idaho, republican,
who is opposed to the federal amend
ment, declared that Mr. Hughes' ac
tion would not strengthen the repub
lican party "one particle."
BUSE OF
HUGHES SAVS
HAS NOT HAULED i
DOWN HIS FLAG
COMMUNITY MEREST
CALLES IN COMMAND
OF YAQUI CAMPAIGN
AT
ITS HEIGHT
IN NEW YORK
j Pepu'-ihean A. P. Leased Wire!
I NEW VOItK. Aug. 21-Dr. Haven
Emerson, health commissioner, tonight
was more hopeful of the infantile
paralysis munition than for weeks The
disease apparently reached its greal
e.it height about August K. the com
missioner said. It was pointed out
there were only 222 deaths In the wee
eii'lmg Spturday, whereus there were
3'tl the week previous.
Commissioner Emerson cited figures
to show the genera! health of the city
Bond, and the death rate low. despite
j the epidf mlc.
Certain Rumania
Has Joined Side
of Entente Allies
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
AM STKRDAM (via London), Au;
ust
The Rumanian situation again is
taking a leading pli.ee In the war news.
Dispatches from llerlin and Bucharest,
via iSerlin. describe the relations be
tween Rumania and the Germanic al
lies as extremely serious. Wolff
bureau dispatches hint that an Austro-lic-rman
ultimatum is in preparation.
The Kreusezeitung declares negotia
tions that took place at Bucharest at
the week-end between the Russian
military attache and the Rumanian
M-cretary of war must be considered
sis proof that Rumania has Joined the
entente. I
blatt:
'(icrman and Austrian ministers at
Uucharest have pointed out the conse- I
queiices to Rumania of granting per-
mission to the Russians to march ;
through Rumanian territory. Toward j
us Rumania must not play her sphinx
tricks so far that one clay with shrug- 1
ging shoulders she will place before us
'cm fait compli' for which we have not
been able to take proper counter
measures." i
SEATTLE IS NOT
i MINE EXPERIMENT
! STATION LOCATION
Crisis Not Near
ISKRLIN (via London). August 22.
Bucharest dispatches to German news
papers indicate that the situation in
Rumania with regard to that country's
stand in the war continues active but
with a crisis not appreciably nearer.
German public opinion apparently is
not alarmed at the riosect of Rum- j
ama's entering the war. Officials view !
the situation calmly and a similar at-1
titude is being maintained in Vienna.
According to reliable sources in Bui
garia the prospect of a war with Rum
ania remains popular, owing to the de
fRrpubllcar. A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Arg.. 21. -Secretary
Lane issued a statement tonight
explaining that through an inadvrrt
ence it had ln anno'. 'need erroneous
ly that Se-ittle. Washington. had
i been ected as the location for on
I of the thr"e new mining c-xiienmcr.t
jSt'i;tons to be - established by the ele
j part merit of th Innrior. Hp said
j Tccson, Arizona. and Fairbanks
1 MasTtn. had been chosen, but thcr
would l.e no dec isle n as to the third
place pending the return of Dirce lor
Mr. tilling, of the iiureau of mines,
w ho is making jierso-ial incitiirics on
the subject in the west.
Ii is i,,,r.i ki. sire or ine nuigarians to rega n uoii-
,.aplV".h:UtXCHn.r a s "n S st .th Iff T "ft
through Rumanian territory were di- S',!1,,OKt ,,y ,ho tm,,y of '"-harest In
.... .t .j. . miuiik uri eiiueiy wiiiiiu re-
gard such an arrangement as a casus
belli."
Major Moraht says in
SAFETY DEPOSIT
VAULT OF SILVER
. BANK IS INTACT
Meanwhile, the central powers Imve ' I
bought another 2.(l0 carloads of bmins Silver and
for which
the Tage. (Continued 'on Page Two)
micciim p a n i n a i p Ri in n m r
i ii u u i.u rui i ij n ur
iiiiiiiiiiun i iiiisii nil i ii iii i
liwwuillll UMIIIII IllUli U (JUL.
DF ALMOST CONTINUOUS NATURE t
I Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I'KTR GRAt, Aug. 21, (VU Lon
don) The feature of tne fighting in
the Russian campaign, which broko '
ou like a tempest on tre soi;thv ext
ern Ir itit more than two months and
a half .--go, m its iilin.; continuous ,
nature, '..xcept fbr brief interludes tor i
( onso'iibiting position or changing I
the ect inn of attack, it bus been
like one great sustained battle. I er
loli like -.he present, ('escribed :m
"lulls" usually have turned out to be
rowile, with Intense fighting, whose
details It has been the consistent pol
icy ot the Russian staff to hold sec
ret until the operations ure ended.
It Is impossible, to say vUu-her the
Russian attack on Kol from the
Stokhod l egion continues with Its orig
inal energy, but the belief seehis to
prevail here that the discovery of n
series of strong German fortifucatlons
protecting Kovel from tne east led the
rflisslun stuff to t-ase its hopes on
taking the cty by strong flank at
tacks, which n are developing.
This is considered to account for the
le.etute German attacks In the re
gion of Like Nobel, where the Teu
tons ere trying to prevent the Kns-oans
occupation of the marshy lund souMi
tit the SioMtcd. which would consti
tute a serious menu!' to the German
left flank whose base Is Kovel, and
would piove a Valuable amage point
to General Kaledines in the pressure
he is exerting from the somh.
Til1 strengthening ol the Austilau
Rennblican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. Aug., 21. Afler a da
riotous scenes about the Adolph
Company, private bank.
- receiver was appointed
b the federnl court tod iy !n lew oi
th disappcar'uice of Its director, .Max
Silver, hundreds of de ositors who
flocked about the closed bank were
I relieved toright bv the announce
ment tbat Max Silver did not have
access to the .''OH safety deposit boxe:i
ir the Institution.
.Lien;) Wilson, chief clerk at the
bunk, told the crowd the contents of
the boxes would be found intact.
At I hp direction if the receiver two
men today began drilling through
4Vi& tniiK ..f Ik. t...nlr ii. nPilnr t. tral
c.r-.es in ine . arpaiman nas checked! int() th vnllU. N1 member of the
mom-nt.iriiy tne r.ussian movement i silver fnrr.llv could be located in
in tnis direction, out the Russians i hicago todav and none of the bank
f , declared , nave hPn aol(. to ,n,lVl, ;new thp t.()miratlon
hold all the positions recently won. th vault
Republican A. P. Leasea Wire
LOS ANGKLK- Aug., 21. Charles
K. Hughes told an audience in the
Shriners' auditorium here tonight
that he had no; "hauled down the
Hag." he put up in New York.
'We have had periods when the
public interest l:i this country v.as
ignored; when it was derided and
not safeguarded by law.' he said.
.m glad tnse oenods are oast. 1
believe they have passed. I believe
there is a nw sentiment a.jroad ir..
this .laud which rre.ignizes the in
terests of .communities and that there'
a scut ment which demands pro
tection of the intcre.ils i f communi
ties against 'ill spoliation. :.g:i!iist
conspiracies am! againsl combination t.
f every soit. I am au'tint! every
abuse of community interests for
he sak.. f private ,-.d antage. I did
sonieihirg in New York along that
line tnd I haven't changed my mind
a 'lit in regard to it.
"I also belli ce that regulation and
stipcrvlHi. n by the government is u
mockery unless it is lust and s mure
with the Let. I put that flag up in
New York- also and 1 never have
hauled it down-and - never prt "-'"
to.
"There again it Is the oueMion o.'
tmlving tin' facts, of analyzing the
.'dual condition and coming to c r.-lu-nons
that p.;r fair, v.' hat nun
ir" afraid of in this cinm:r, on one
tde and the ot:cr of a .treat coii
'roverse, is that they will in some
va be tal.en into camp, and each
ide is inclined to push up i!s sid
a In tie ikhivp what is fair and rlulit.
Nw. let us have tin- tidenct
honcsf Msole liat il is itoi;.g to
pre tet t the pnuilc to ni nn'Min in-
'ivlduril il.Thts unci tan'.' it is giing
to hae Jostice reign In this ia.,uitr
not because it will help iuti as
ig.iinst this ir thn ore: not tecaus
il wil' criiible yu or flat but !
aiise ii is Justice and because on
sti-'p m-f. br found the lasting
prosperity of this nation.
"I Wi.iUl hive d onderKlood lhat
" have passi-d the day we had to
tra t what wan legitimn'f in order
i ciu.--'i out wnat was IIIigiLi.n.i'c i
d unfair an'' Hit g;-'. Wc in pro-i
it ourselves airalcst efry hirel of
nif.rc,Tolisiic praitices without rncd-
lllnv
"We ni'U-t cot scoff at tlia' which
lakes pr-o'lii. tion ;kis uble aad e-x-i.inda
tr nie. We rn'si cut w he"-e
lure s abuse, and cat in ord t lhat
we mav prepare the way for health-
ict Ion.
While we eHiniot live by faririrv
lbme. we rai live if ne have suraerv
le-an. skill'iil; s artery whe-re neees-
sarv n-d tb-i Is to build uu ami
nrid" tie patient health, to s-t him
n his feet, to clear the oath for hi
snce'ess.
Ir. Hugh's sistke before bis sec
ond ntidieprp of the night at the
Shriii'Ts a:;dilorium. The first was
n 'ive'fln'.y crowd that "trete-tie-I
rom cuib fe curb of the wide street
itside for nearl' a black.
In his brief iieliliess to the over
flow "ri'iul the nominee reiterate.;
his views on the tariff, meiiarednes.4.
ominant A merle enism and industrial
ei-op.raiion.
Insble the n i;d 'toridm. the nominee
faced an audirne-e eif a'stut one hall
ar women. Half of the three liun
bed members of the receptietn com-
miite-e. seali-d e.n the platform :'.
was officially annou.ie cd. were pro-
'"siye.:. ihe oth"r reiiublicans.
Russ verv. a f'irnier lirogressive.
introduced thf chairman of the mcet-
ng. Stoddard .less, banke-r and re
publican leader of this city.
In cloviiu: his aeldns the nomine'
.aid he claim.1 the sntport e.f "ai!
epublic'i'is and all in'ogressices.'
his campaign.
Mr. Hu;;hcs left here .at 10:1.".
Sicramejiito. where he will rprak
momw night.
o -
NEW REPORT OF
DEATH OF VILLA
FROM HIS WOUNDS
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
I'Ol'GLAS. An.., Aug. 21. General:
I. Kllas Calles assumed official com- i
ma ml of Hie Ya'iui Indian campaign
about the middle uf last week, reliev
ing General Riifael Kstrada, who left
immediately afterward tor Guadala
jara where lie will be stationed ac
cording to arrivals from Hermosillo.
With General Kstrada went five
thousand of ibregon's veteran troops
s'nt to Sonora early in the year to
fight the Yaiiuis and moved later to
the border district during the recent
crisis, in explanation of this move, a
high official eiuoted a Spanisn pro
verb. "It is easier to take cattle to
pasture than te move the pasture to
the cattle." He explained that the
Mexican government has been meeting
much difficulty in provisioning the
men in the betrder zone, while in the
interior and particularly around lluud
ala'.ara. food is more plentiful.
Few stores in seiuthern Sonora are
doing business at this time, owing to
being forced to take fiat money, it
was said today by arrivals. Those
which are operating have allowed their
stocks to run down to a very low
point. But for the municipal ware
house where foodstuffs are sulci to the
poor at bargain prices, suffering would
be intense. There are a number of
mch wareheeiises in the stale. '
Lumors reaching Cananea that the
trilling companies of that district
wouul be forced to continue paying
niplo.es in Mexican silver and pay
Carir-nza currency, has caused much
excUei.ient, arrivals say.
Meetings are said to nave been held
by Mexican employes, who are deter
mined they would go on strike before
accepting the currency, it is said.
There is now no garrison in Cananea.
all troops having been withdrawn for
the Yaejui campaign.
THEN 1
P. Leased Wire
Aug 21. As one
OANASI
DESIRES PEACE
UG BORDER!
i
Catholics Urge Minimum
Wage for All Workers
'
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire t ,,ad, partly fiom lack of familiar
.-.in.. i'.thv rtiuc.. zi. r.siauiisn-
memt of i minimum wage for all
woikcrs was discussed here tonight
T. a socb'l service meeting of the;
American Federation of Catholic
societies. I'rofesor James Haggerty,
of Ohio state; ITr.lverslty, presided!
and the speakers were Bishop. P. J.
Miileloori. of iloekfard, Illinois: Rev.
r.uvvMi . ilHara, chairman of the
Oregeni state commisnlcn on the
minimi-m wage and the Rev. Jedin A
Hvnn. of the Catholic Cniversity.
Washington. T. C.
Bishop .Muldoon asserted that the
problem of social uervlce was con
sidere.el Important that the fed
eration hail derided to hold a separate
meeting in future cunventiutis. Pio
resseit Ha-r.rerty de-elared that not
more than ir. pe-r cent e.f the e-oun-try's
wage enruers we-re organized.
The...., be sold, are skilled workers.
' Cnsl.llled laborers fail to organize,"
Republican A. P. Leased Wirt
ACST1N, August 21. General Juan
Antonio Acosta, of Mexico City, special
representative of the Carrauza gov
ernment, accompanied by his private
secretary. .!.' V. Trevino, reached here
this iifternoeu) arid bad a lengthy con-
,f forence- with Governor Ferguseen of
Texas.
General Acosta said he came as the
special envoy of Ge'ni'ral Carranza and
breniKht the ge.od wishes of Carranza
for the ce.ntiuueei food will and peace
between Mexico and the I'niteal States. '
lie assured Governor Ferguson that it
as :he de sire nf i he Mr xican gov ern- .
merit t) preserve the cordial relations
along the Texas be.rd'-r and sought to
know w hat steps should be taken to
preseTve such relations and also 'rsked
the co-operation or the Texas au-
thoritie-s.
Governor Ferguson assured General
.Tfosra in tne eiesiret or l exas ;or peace
anei harmony and that the state would
do its share to preserve these relations.
The Aco.sta party left tonight for
Nuevo Lareebi, Mcxicee.
Chavez Is Executed
CHIHI AIH A CITY. August 21.
I'ederico Chavez, feermerly a Villa gen
eral, who was amnestied several
meinths ago. has been executed by a
Villa baud operating in Southern Chi
huahua, acceirding to a report made to
General Jacinto Trevino today by the
commandant of the Jiminez garrison.
The rcnort said Chavez was put lo
death because Rosalie- Hernandez, his
former chieftain and with whe.m he re
cently had be-cn living, is holding a
Continued on I'aee Twoi
.. Republican A.
WASHINGTON,
American citizen to another, Presi
dent Wilson today appealed to eacli
of the exe-cutives of the country's
principal railroads on grounds of pa
triotism to accept his plan for avert
ing the threatened disaster of a nation-wide
strike. He emphasized the)
necessity for keping the railroads in
service as a part of the national de
fense and to make possible prepara
tion for meeting conditions thai will
exit after the European war.
On leaving the White House, the
railroad presidents, augmented during
the day by arrivals from the west,
held a ce nference at which sentimne't
was said to be against agreeing to
the president's proposal in its present
form. Hope was expressed, however,
that some satisfactory counter propo- -sition
might be advanced, and It
cie' ided to turn over to a committee '
the task of drafting a final reply to
the president. With more than sixty
men. most of them with their own
ideas about what ougrt to be done.
th executives found ir difficult !
"get down to brr tacks."1 as one of
them expressed it.. Tomorrow morn
ing aneither meeting will h held and
even- effort will be made to reach a
decision promptly.
The railroad heads still insist that
President Wilson is asking them to
sacrifice the principle of arbitratiem.
Klirha Lee. chairman of tb national
conference commi.tee(if railways. Is
sued a statement tonight in which he
sai.1:
"That the railroads should Srnnf,
under threat of a natbinal strike, a
$r.n,'K'i,uO(i wage preferment to a
small minority of theiv employes,
v.iihoit a rearinn Iefare a public
tribunal, is inconceivable in a demeic
racy 'ike ours. All etuestions at is
sue w aces, hours costs, otje.atins:
I Republican A. P. Leased Wire ! ..nditir.ns are submerged bv tv
ORANGK. N. .1. Aug. 21. Samuel ! greater Issue: shall jrbitrsMon he?
Gompers. president ,,f the American i abandoned in the settlement of Indl'S
Federation of Labor, speaking today I trial ilisr.utes "
GOMPERS SAYS
W LL CONTINUE
AS 'NUISANCE'
before the thirty-eighth annual con
vention of the New Jersey Federation
of Labor, answered the attack made
on him in the United States senate
recently by Senator Sherman. It was
Mr. (Jumpers' first public reply and he
concluded by promising lhat the sena
tor would have further reason to con
sider him a "public nuisance. "
Mr. Gompers said he was not "tem
porarily head of the labor federation"
as Sherman is reported to have called
him. bin that he had -jeen its president
for thirty-two years. Of funds raised
in behalf of the Iiidianapolis dyna
miters, the labor leader said:
"When they pleaded innocent we
went down in our pockets so that they
might have a fair trial. When they
pleaded guilty. we abandoned the
whole thin-;. That's the extent of our
wrong doing."
A resedution expressing confielence in
the integrity and purimse of rrevi::U
Gompers in his leadership of tlv rcd
eraiion was adopted by the convention.
NT:
ened
rar
the
an.l
ment
NEW STRIKE AVERTED
W YORK. Aug.. 21. A threa
renevval of New York's street
-trike was averteel to.iav when
V' ,y York Railways Company
its epioi'iyes reached an agree
throrgh the efforts of Mayor
Mitchell. Fourteen workers dismiss
ed a"'er e-einvi'tie.n of liserdcr!
conduit in the- recent strike will be
re'r.stale I and other differences will
be- S'tlie.l by arbitration.
The statement suegests. however,
that the railroais stand ready tc tflke
whatever action the ppt.oIp and the
country desire. It concludes:
"The weicht of public opinion mu.--t
determine hi issue. H'r cannot be
lieve trat it is the calm iudpmenr of
the ccontia that we should socrifi"'
tb principle of arbitration in indus
trial e'ii utes under thre.it to tie
lie. tb commerce of the country."
While the officials w"re listening'
President Wilscn and b'ter conferring
at tfjr hotel, the genera! committc
ar 540 ret resentat'ves tl1p m'.
oloves wl':i s'readv bnve aecentei th"
president's nlan. held perfuncforv
riectine and mf-Ved time awaiting'
h-' decision of the emnloi-e-s. Thev
-'V ihev would wai' until Pres.'den'
Wi'snn 'dismissre them, but stoerel
rcid.- to cl! a strike should the nP
2o':ations fail.
Altbnnrh a fe ef the railroH'l ex
ecutives in'ited had r-t arrived this
..finrroon. i was decided t'at thos"
alcar'.- in Wasr inCon were renrp-Kentpti'-o.
and thcrcO th- presiden'
called them to tb White Hons' and
e-arnctiy ureed that his plun of sp'--tlerne'rt
be ratified.
"I will not allow cassion to come
into mv thn igbts in this solemn mat
ter" he sn'd. "Wj are both acting as
ti-.stres of siCH interests. T ;tm
will'ng to alb.v this, matter to go to
the creat Ameriian .inr-' fnd 1t them
assume te responsibility. Thp re-
( Continued on Tag; Two) '
in
fo.-to-
National Guard on Border
So Long As Emergency Exists
ty with American customs, parti
from lack uf Intelligence and partly
from handicaps nlnccu in the way
jv organized capital.
Professor Haggerty asserted that
investigations show that a family ol
flvp reiniirea from $700 to Jl.OOi
vspnrly to live.
"Three fourths of the unskilled
workers uf the country earn less
hnn 70." he said. "It has been
lclPtmlnivl that a woman cannot
live on b'ss than JS a week but
fbrep-feiurtbs of the women wage
.'arners of the country get less"
Father Ryan said:
"LVoimnili'iilly tke state has us
nuch right to fix the minimum wage
is hfts the -labor union. The stub
ins as inuwh ris-'it to fix the minl
ru ni wngc as to 'unipel the use ol
infety etev ices on machinery :inc
-ailroads,"
(Renuhlicar. A. P. Leased Wire
Hi, RASO, Aug. jl. A new report
of tne death of Villa was received here
today by Andres Garcia, Mexican con
ul. The report, emanating from San
Gerpoimo. Chihuahua said that the
bandit chieftain died ef blood poison
ing, resulting from his wounds lit Tal
lamantes. near I'arral on .Inly H, and
was buried near there. While the re
tain was transmitted for what it was
worth to Mexico City, it was given lit
tle credence at the local consulate.
EIGHT ARE KILLED
IN EXPLOSION OF
THREE BOILERS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
' JACKSON. Tenn., Aug. 21. Kicht
workmen were killed and sixteen in
jured here todav when three' boilers
at the plant of the Marian. Morris
Slave Manufacturing company, ex
ploded, wrecking the building and
scattering debris Over a radius of sev
eral hundred yards. It is believed that
all of the injured will recover. The
cause of the explosion bad not been
determined tonight. Officials of the
company stated late today that all of
'he persons In the building at I lie lime
hail been accounted for,
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
.WASHINGTON. Aug. 21. The na
tional guard will be retained on the
Mexican border until it can be with
drawn without again endangering
American lives and prooperty. Secre
tary Raker so declareel the administra
tions policy today in answering a
score of letters from many parts of
the country complaining that the state
troops were be'ing held in service after
the emergency for which they were
called out apparently hnd passed.
In general, the complainants, whose
names were withheld, alleged that the
order for service was entailing loss
financially on militiamen and hard
ship ou their familie-s. The secretary
replied to all those seeming to merit
attention. By its presence on the
border, he wrote to one, the guard is
"winning bloodless victories daily." He
declared that Americans resident along
the international line were enjoying a
peace and security they could not
know without the military forces to
protect them.
The department appreciates, Mr.
Uaker said in another letter, the fact
that a call for military service upon
militia organizations must "lnevetably
present cases of hardship." He added:
. "The emergency, however, w hich re
quired this call was one uf a grave
character, affecting the safety and
lives of citizens of the Cnited States
men women and children. The pres
ence of the militia on the Mexican
border has restored order and given a
high degree of safety and security to
the lives of our people in that trou
bled country than they have for a
long time had. The militia is there
fore performing a valuable service;
and the fact that this service is being
performed without active military
operations entailing loss of life tti our
soldiers, is a ran so of congratulation
and happiness."
Referring to the elaborate and ex
tensive training the militiumen are re
ceiving under supervision of regular
army officers, the secretary expressed
the opinion that it would fit them to
act m time of war or other emergency
as a suppeirting arm, or seceend line
for the regular army, furnishing an
asset to national preparedness that
could not have been obtained etther
wise. '
"Clearly, so soon as a restored state
of order on the border justifies it, these j keep
this call." the secretary said, "atid with
which they are performing an import
ant and necessary service to their
country." -
To another correspondent, the secre
tary explained that the national guard
was maintained for just such exigen
cies as that which now exists on the
border, and that it had cost the gov
ernment many millions to prepare and
it ready tor sucn emergencies.
troops will be returned to their homes." I He pointed out that national guards
he wreite. "in the meantime, it is not ! men were fully aware of the duties
possible for the department to say heiw j they undertook when they enlisted
soon biicn a Kllli.ieion v in ill ise, Ul- I Jtee
tnougn tne Mexican situation is one oi
increasing hopefulness."
In another letter he called attention
to steps taken to relieve guardsmen
where there is unusual hardship re
sulting from their being called into
the service.
"I am filled with admiration for the
spirit with which the militia has met
of the letters emphasized the
scientific and highly successful man
ner in which the mobilization of the
national guard had been handled by
army officers. As evidence of this, at
tention was directed to the low sie:k
rate andto the adequate measures
taken to insure proper sanitary condi
tions and provide ample and varied
food supplies.
East Is Again Sweltering;
Several Deaths Reported
tepuhlican A.. P. Leased Wire I mum official
CHICAGO. Aug.. 21. One death I decrees
temperature was 94
Ire to the heat was reimrted to tile
police today. The maximum terrt
pert'tiire was 17.
( 'otih'r weather tomorrow with a
decided change in temperature will
uing relief from the heat wave
throughout the middle west, the
vveatler bureau announced.
Also In Detroit
f)i;TI;0T. Aug.. 21. Three deaths
ind nearlv a dozen ptoserations dl
ecllv elue to the intense heat, were
i'epoited in Detroit today. The maxi-
Warm In Pittsburo,
PITTSRCRG, Aug., 21. The gov
ernment termometer registered 9e
eu'grees here at p. m. today which
was a new heat record for the season.
Hiqhest In Twenty Yers
HITTING. W. Va., Aug.. 2L
A temperature of 1 04 degrees was
registered bv the governmen ther-
imometer here today. This is the
! hi:hest mark reached in twenty
I. oars with tne exception of July 5,
; 1111, when lti5 degree- was reconiad.
