1 I Todays Metal Prices 1 ffiifv QL" I 4 P. M. CITY EDITION H
I NEW YORlTauoTATlONS. ; M I P ll iM I P jl 1 il ll 1 I 41 l I TEN PAGES
I New York, Aug. 22.-SI.ver, 66 CLJUI 'V l JV f V f'WV 4 W'V "V WEATHER-Utah: Fair Tonight
IB 1-4c; lead, S6.606.75; spelter $9 25 r 7 and Wednesday; Warmer Wednesday , H
IK 9.75; copper, S26.5027.50 ' ' I J 1 and In Southern Portion Tonight; H
!? VT k--' Thursday Fair. 1 H
II 1 1 FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER,
l l Forty-slxth Year-No. 201. Price Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 22' 1916. Entered as Secondlass Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden. Utah. -I
I . . : , H
Railroads May Concede Eight-Hour Day;
Situation Turned Over to Eight Men II
. 2 ,
' j i i
Offensive in Balkans in Full Swing;
Rumania About to Enter the War
- . . ,
GENERAL FIGHT DEVELOPING ON
MACEDONIAN 150-MILE FRONT
Serbians Capture Two Forts Bulgarians Make Notable Ad-
vances Heavy Fighting Is in Progress North of Saloniki
ll French Make Gains North and South of the
! Somme and the British Advance Along
a Pozieres Line and on Leipsic Salient
I Russ Report Gains in Caucasus, Meet
a; Check in Carpathians.
s . '.
y Berlin, Aug. 22, by wireless to Sayville. The Russians
H are continunig their determined efforts to advance west of the
Stokhod in Volhynia near Rudka-Cherbische but have been
I repulsed by Bavarian cavalry and Austrian dragoons who in-
flicted heavy losses on the attacking forces, it was announced
I ; today by the war office.
v Paris, Aug. 22, 9:35 a. m. The fighting on the Saloniki
front is becoming more general, says a Havas dispatch mailed
yesterday at Saloniki. In the Doiran section Serbian troops
have captured Forts Kaimakadar and Cucurlu.
Paris, Aug. 22, 8:35 a. m. Heavy fighting is going on
3 north of Saloniki on the entire line of the entente allies from
1 Kavala to Barawli. On the western end of the line hostilities
I I are confined for the most part to artillery.
I Sofia, Monday, Aug. 21, via London, Aug. 22, 5:05 p.
j m. Furthedvances for the Bulgarians indie StrjmiayaUey.
I f on the Macedonian frwit are announced in today's official
1 !' statement by Bulgarian army headquarters. The Bulgarians
1 I have also penetrated further southward from Fiorina on the
I! western flank where they have reached the Malaria ridge. The
I capture of a strongly defended position by Bulgarians pushing
j from the east towards Fiorina on the Niezeblanina ridge is like-
i wise announced.
iThe offensive in the Balkans is in
full swing with Russian troops arriv
ing in Saloniki to fight with the en
tente forces and Rumania reported
about to enter the war on the side of
the allies. Landing o Italian troops
is continuing and an unofficial dis
patch reports Greek troops engaging
Bulgarians in the vicinity of Seres.
Bulgarian advices indicate that
Russian troops havo been in the
Balkans more than three weeks, the
. initial contingent having apparently
arrived at Saloniki some time previ
ous to July 31, the news having been
just released by the entente censor
It is only about 350 miles In an air
line from "Russia to Greece at the
nearest point, but Rumania and Bul
garia lie between, and to bridge the
distance the Russians were obliged to
travel thousands of miles. As the
Bosphorus is closed by the Turks,
they were deprived of the short sea
Today's dispatches regarding de
velopments on the Macedonian front
indicate that the engagement is be
1 coming general all along the 150
mile line. Serbian troops are re
1 ported to have captured two forts,
while on the western end of the lino
the Bulgarians claim notable ad
vances. ' For tho moment at least operations
on tho eastern and western fronts
r are overshadowed by those in the
I Balkans. The entente offensive, how
ever, is proceeding uninterruptedly
on both these fronts. The French
and British today both claim pro
gress on the Somme front.
Russ Gain in Caucasus.
Petrograd, Aug. 22, via London, 3
I p. m. The Russians army of the Cau
casus has gained further ground, the
I war office announced today.
The statement sayB:
"On the western front tho situation
; Is unchanged.
I "In the Caucasus we occupied a con
siderable portion of enemy territory
west of Lake Van whero an entire
' company of the Seventeenth regiment
fell into our honds.
"In Persia our detachments defeat
ed Turkish cavalry In the region of
. I Uchnu. Near Xalapasova we drove
a back tho enemy a considerable dls-
, lance westward."
.;3 ; Stout Resistances In Carpathians,
t Berlin, Aug. 22. By wireless tc
Sayville, The Russians arc continu
, ing efforts to force their way across
; tho Carpathians through tho pass
;vj south of Kolomea, but now meeting
i , with effective resistance, according
to the Austro-Hungarlan statement
of August 12.
The statement says:
igpi "West of the Moldova, Bukowina
2- and on the heights southwest ol
(f& Zabie, the enemy made vnln attempts
to regain lost ground. On both sides
$1 of Tartar pass the fighting is con
Tm tinulng with the situation unchanged
3ir "On the Bystritza-Howoverskn
I
(south of Sanlshlau) Gallcla, and
north of the Dniester the situation is
quiet.
"Near Ruska-Yzeriscocoe all Russian-attempts
to enlarge their posi
tions on the west bank of the Stok
hod broke down under heavy losses."
French Advance on Somme Front.
Paris, Aug. 22, 12:22 p. m Progress
was made by tho French last night
on the Somme front north of the
river In tho outskirts of Clery, the
war office announced today. South of
the river the French captured
trenches near Estrees and Soyecourt.
The announcement says:
"North of the Somme the artillery
continued active on a large portion
of the front. During the night we
made progress in the outskirts of
Clery. , . ,
"In the woods which our troops took
on August 20 south of Guillemont we
captured two more fiold guns, bring
ing up to eight the number of guns
which fell Into our hands In this en
gaments. "South of the Somme, minor opera
tions enabled as to occupy several
pjortlons of trenches southwest of
Estrees and east oT Soyecourt. We
took prisoners.
"Northwest of Solssons one of our
detachments succeeded in carrying out
a surprise attack on a trench at Vlm
gre plateau. The night was calm on
tho remainder of the front.
"Yesterday one of our pilots brought
down an Albatross aeroplane near
Languevolson, near Nesls. Further
more, four enemy biplanes which were
attacked at close quarters by our
aviators fled In a damaged condition.
"Last night one of aerial squadrons
dropped 79 bombs on the railway
stations and line of Tergnler and Noy
on, on tho water station of Pont-le-Vequo
and on the station at Appilly.
Our aviators report that severe fires
were caused. Our aeroplanes returned
undamaged."
British Gain Ground.
London, Aug. 22, 3:29 p. m. British
troops on the Somme front have ad
vanced along a lino a half mile long
In the region of P.ozleres, and have
also made an advance near tho Lclp
slc salient, it was officially announced
ndnv.
The official statement follows:
"In Guillemont the enemy's garrison
Is still maintaining an obstlnato re
sistance In Bpite of very heavy losses
from our bombardments.
"In tho vicinity of Pozieres we have
again made considerable progress.
We have advanced on a front of half
a mile and are established at a road
junction Just outside of Moquet farm
and havo pushed forward along the
right of the Pozleres-MIraumont road.
'In tho Leipsic salient (In the vi
cinity of Thlopval) we extended our
gains and advanced our positions to
within 1,000 yardB of Thlepval. Over
100 more prisoners were taken,"
British and French Repulsed.
Berlin, Aug, 22. By wireless to
Sayville Heavy attacks by both the
British and French on the Somme
front have been repulsed by tho Ger
man troops, the war office announced
today. The British attacked between
Thiepval and Pozieres and only suc
ceeded in capturing one advanced
salient.
South of the Somme, trenches lost
to the French in an attack, were re
captured by a German counter attack.
Berlin, Aug. 22, via London, 5:11
p. m. All the Serbian positions on
the Malka Nelzeplanina, east of Ban
aca, on the Macedonian front, have
been captured by troops of the cen
tral powers, the war office announced
today, i
The French, adds the announce
ment, have been driven out of Butn
kova and Tahimos.
Italian Ships Sunk.
London, Aug. 22, 2:03 p. m. The
sinking of the Italian steamer Erix
of SS5 tons gross and the Italian sail
ing vessel Dea of 176 tons gross Is
announced by Lloyd's Shipping
Agency.
uu
GREEK TROOPS
FIGHTJMGARS
Commander at Seres Calls All
Reservists Stubborn Bat
tle in Progress.
London Augr 22,-10T27-a, m. Greek
troops havo been fighting the Bulgar
ians in the vicinity of Seres since
Sunday morning, says an Athens des
patch to the Exchange Telegraph com
pany. The Greek commander at Seres has
called to arms all the reservists in
that locality, says the despatch. That
the fighting Is of a stubborn character
is Indicated by the fact that a large
number of Greek soldiers have been
killed.
It was stated in a Paris despatch
yesterday that the Fourth Greek Army
Corps had fallen back from Seres as
well as from Kavala and Drama
Seres Is an Important city of about
30,000 population, 45 miles northeast
of Saloniki.
A dispatch to the Evening News
from Athens, filed yesterday, says
the resistance of tho Greek troops at
Seres has created great excitement in
Athens and that the newspapers there
are referring to tho "heroic division
of Seres."
It Is understood at Athens, the dis
patch says, that Greek army head
quarters ordered the Seres division
to retire. Orders have been given
that all further hostilities must bo
avoided.
oo
CRITICAL BAY
INJMRES5
Ten Insurgent Democrats
Threaten to Cause Immed
iate Action on Immigra
tion Bill.
Washington, Aug. 22. This was a
critical day in determining the ad
ministration's legislative and adjourn
ment program. Ten Insurgent Dem
ocrats, voting,, with Republicans,
threatened to cause Immediate action
on the immigration bill which a Dem
ocratic caucus had agreed to put over
until the December session. Should
the attempt bo successful, It prob
ably would seriously disarrange plan6
for early adjournment.
The revolt among Democrats came
yesterday when Senator Smith of
South Carolina, Democrat, chairman
of the Immigration committee, moved
to take up the Immigration bill. The
motion was carried and debate on the
mensuro started. The revenue bill
took precedence, automatically, at a
certain hour, however, and Senator
Smith moved to replace it on the cal
endar with the immigration bill. This
motion will bo still pending today.
REVENUE BILL.
Washington, Aug. 22 Debase on
the revenue bill was opened In the
senate today with a statement by
Chairman Simmons oC the finance
committee that appropriations for
1917 would total 1,042,008,728 and
that It was necessary to raiso $1,116,
243,000 from all sources. Tho reve
nue bill is expected to produce ?205,-000,000.
RUSSIAN TROOPS
REACH SALONIKI
Arrival of Brigade to Join in
Balkan Fighting Stirs'
Greeks.
POOR FOREIGN POLICY
Interests of Nation Overlooked
Presence of Muscovites
Changes Bulgarian
' Attitude.
Athens, Monday, Aug. 21, 6 p. m.,
via London, Aug. 22, 1225 p. m. An
Initial brigade of Russian troops has
arrived at Saloniki lo join the entente
allies in the fighting in the Balkans.
The arrival of the Russians has
created a profound impression here.
Even the royalists, who have con
sistently opposed participation in tho
war by Greece on the side of the en
tente allies, seemed almost stunned by
the news that Russian troops had ar
rived to take part In the campaign
which, under other conditions, might
have been opposed by the Greek army.
General feeling here is that the
bringing in of Russian troops has dis
pelled definitely the dream of a great
er Greece which was conceived a.
year and a half ago by the then Pre
mier Venlzelos who carried Greece
well on the way toward entrance
Into the war with the entente allies.
It is regarded as possible that the
presence of' Russian soldiers in "Mace
donia will effect a change in the atti
tude of Bulgaria.
In some quarters irritation is dis
played at the receut foreign policy of
the Greek government which is saldj
to have overlooked the interests of i
this nation.
Large Italian Force Landing.
Paris, Aug. 22, 11:15 a. m The
Italian contingent of troops landing
at Saloniki Is in really important pro
portions, according to dispatches
here. The Temp3, In its review of the
military situation today alludes to
the presence of Russian troops along
the Vardar which, If confirmed, would
make five allied contingent engaged
in the entente line In the Balkans.
The announcement of the landing
of Italian troops at Saloniki Is regard
ed here as deeply significant, indi
cating an enlargement of the already
large army of the allied forces con
taining British, French and Serbian
troops. The Italian movement is con
strued as showing that comprehen
sive political agreements have been
arranged in alvance, as, hitherto, it
was understood Italy withheld from
participation in the Balkan campaign
out of consideration for Greek sensi
bilities over the predominance of
their influence in the eastern Medi
terranean. The participation of the Italians in
the Balkan cnmpalgn is also consid
ered another evidence of the Interna
tional spirit prevailing amon the al
lies and is compared to the sending
of the Russian contingents to France.
By this movement the allies are dis
tributing their effectives far beyond
their own borders.
nn ir
NEW PAGE I
BALKANHISTORY
Possibility of Rumania Joining
in War Discussed in All
Quarters.
RUSS TO JOIN SERBS
Over 800,000 Rumanian
Troops Ready Ammuni
tion Arriving From
France and Russia.
Paris, Aug. 22, G:4S a. m. All the
morning newspapers comment at
length on the possibility of Rumania
Joining in the war. The meetings
that are in progress In Bucharest are
taken to mean that all the various
developments in the situation axe be
ing seriously considered and the
general tone of tho comment is that
the decisive moment for Rumania's
action has arrived.
Operations of the Bulgarian army
in Macedonia are interpreted in
some quarters as having been un-
' dertaken solidly, with a view to in
fluencing the decision of Rumania. On
all sides it is admitted that a new
page in Balkan history is opening and
the discussion by the press of the
K various diplomatic phases" of the
Rumanian situation is followed by an
explanation of the strength of the
Rumanian army.
The statement is made on good au
thority that the number of Rumanian
troops that can be mobilized exceeds
800,000, and that the army is in the
best of condition after long prepara
tion. Russ Join Serbs.
Athens, Greece, via London, Aug.
22, 12:35 a. m. After a conference
of the French, British, Serbian and
Russian commanders at Saloniki to
day, it was decided that the newly
arrived Russian forces should take up
positions with the Serbian troops on
the southern frontier of Serbia. The
Serbo-Russlan force was placed under
a combined staff of which Crown
Prince Alexander of Serbia is the
nominal commander. The Russians'
general, Friederictsz, is In actual
command.
Rumanian Troops Mobilized.
Berlin, Aug. 21, via London, Aug.
22, 12:20 a. m. The Budapest Az
Est, which is usually well informed
oh the Rumanian situation,1 today
prints a dispatch from Its Bucharest
correspondent saying the agitation
for war which in the last few days
has been at fever heat, has suddenly
cooled down. It Is stated possibly
the end of mobilization is responsible
for the change", if not the serious
words uttered in the Hungarian par
liament (This is the first hint of a Ruman
ian mobilization that has been per
mitted to pass the allied censorship.
Almost nothing on the Rumanian
military situation from the entente
viewpoint has come through since tne
Balkan situation in its present phase
reached a critical stage).
The Bucharest dispatch adds that
there Is no doubt that Premier Bra
tlano has reached an understanding
with the entente so that further nego
tiations are unnecessary now for ac
tual .participation In the war. Mean
while, , the semi-official Rumanian
press is savagely attacking the con
servative organs which undertook to
discuss mobilization and related mea
sures. More ammunition from France and
Russia is asserted to be arriving.
The white heat discussion in. Bu
charest political circles is now de
clared to "be subsiding, despite the
efforts to keep it hot. This Is as
serted to be due to the failure of the
Russians to keep up their recent suc
cesses and the proximity of Field
(Marshal von Hindenburg to the Ru
manian border.
uu
BRITISH SINK A
GERMANWARSHIP
Submarine E-17 Said to Have
Sent Battleship of Nassau
Class to Bottom.
London, Aug. 22. 5 p. m. A British
official announcement this afternoon
says it is believed that a German bat
tleship of the Nassau class has been
sunk by British submarine E-22.
The announcement follows:
"The submarine E-22, Lieutenant
Commander Robert R. Turner, which
returned today from the North sea,
reports that on tho morning of Satur
day last she made a successful torpedo
attack upon a German battleship of
the Nassau class. The commanding
officer reports that while the ship
was being escorted by five destroyers
back to harbor in a damaged condi
tion, he attacked again and struck her
with a second torpedo and believes
she was sunk."
The Nassau classes of battlo cruis
ers comprises four vessels with dis
placements of 18.G02 tons each, a
length of 451 feet, beam 88 feet and
draft 2G feet. Their armaments con
sist of twelve 11-Inch guns in pairs
in turrets, twelve 5.9-inch guns in bat
tery and sixteen 4.4-Inch guns, togeth
er with six torpedo tubes. The other
battleships of the Nassau class are the
Posen, Rhelnland and Westfalen.
nn .
BULGARS BEGIN
GENERALATTACK
Left Wing Advances in
Struma Valley After Re
pulsing Anglo-French
Forces.
CAPTURE OF ROADS
Enemy Suffers Heavy Losses
From Bulgarian Infantry
and Artillery Fire.
Berlin, Aug. 22, by wireless to Say-
ville. Official announcement is made
by the Sofia war office that on Aug
ust 18 the Bulgarian left wing began
a general offensive, advancing in the
Struma valley, occupying Demi-His-Isar
and establishing Itself on the left
PRESIDENT AND CABINET CONFIDENT
THAT STRIKE WILL BE AVERTED
Railroad Executives Working on Counter Proposal to Presi
dent's Plan Operators Taking Their Time to Go Over
Many Things Carefully Presidents Communicat
ing With Their Boards of Directors Reply to
President Expected Tomorrow. fl
Washington, Aug. 22. "While the
railroad executives were working to
day on a counter proposal to Presi
dent Wilson's plan for averting tho
railway strike, the cabinet went ovei
the strike situation fully and confl
dence was expressed by members that
in the end the railroads would ac
cept the president's plan. What
assurances the president had to go
on for such a conclusion were not
disclosed. ?
Cabinet members agreed that it
was not feasible to hurry the railroad
executives into a decision as they had
many things to consider.
The counter proposal is expected to
be the next step, but there was no
outward indication today of when it
would be taken.
Brotherhood Men Meet.
At 10 o'clock this morning went
into a meeting which was attended by
the leaders of all four brotherhoods.
No special purpose was attached to
it and the leaders said It was just to
keep the men together. A statement
in reply to the arguments of the rail
road executives on the question of
arbitration was being proposed by the
leaders and probably will be issued
for publication tomorrow. The broth
erhood officials described the situa
tion as unchanged. The railroad ex
ecutives made a formal announce
ment that the situation had been turn
ed over to a committee of eight and
no conclusions had been reached.
The following were announced as
members of the committee which will
work on President Wilson's proposal
and makes report to the assembled
executives.
Hale Holden, Burlington; W. W.
Atterbury, Pennsylvania; Fairf ax
Harrison, Southern; Robert S. Lov
et.t, E. P. Ripley, Santa Fe; A. H.
Smith, New York Central; Frank
Trumbull, Chesapeake and Ohio; Dan
iel Wilard, Baltimore and Ohio.
Hope for Settlement.
While the sub-commitee was work
ing, the executives got in touch with
their boards of directors. It was un
derstood that a reply might be ready
for President. Wilson tonight or to
morrow morning. In administration
circles it was said there was hope for
a settlement. The exact nature of the
proposal to be submitted to President
Wilson was not revealed but from the
fact that the executives were in com
munication with their boards of dl-
bank of the Struma after repulsing
the British and French near Seres.
The capture of the road between
Fiorina and Koritza as well as that
between Koritza and Kastorla is alBO
announced in the statement, which
bears the date of August 20 and reads
as follows:
"On account of the military opera-,
tions of the Vardar valley, extending
east of the Struma northeast of Tachi
mo lake our left wing began on Aug
ust 18 a general offensive. Bulgar
ian troops advanced in the Struma
valley, occupied the town of Denil
Hlssar and after an engagement near
the town of Seres, repulsed the Brit
ish and French on the right bank
of the Struma and occupied the. left
bank between Butkova and Tachimo
lakes. Detachments following their
orders advanced between the Struma
and the Mesta.
"In the Vardar valley British and
French troops have been, during the
past ten days, unsuccessfully attack
ing our advance positions south and
southwest of the town of Doiran, suf
fering heavy losses from our infan
try and artillery fire.
"Our right wing, after a victory
over tho Serbians near Fiorina, suc
cessfully pursued our plans. Yester
day we occupied the railroad stations
of Banica and Ekshisu, on tho rail
road from Saloniki to Fiorina and re
established railroad conncctoin with
Monastlr. South of Presba lake we
occupied the villages of Zuesdablollth
sa and Bresnltza, thus establishing
definito connections between Koritza
and Fiorina as well between Koritza
and Kastoria."
Bulgarian Victory Confirmed.
Athens, via Paris, Aug. 22, 12:22
a mj The occupation of Kastoria
and Corytsa by the Bulgarian troops
Is confirmed. News from an official
source says that the German field
marshal, August von Mackensen, Is
with tho Bulgarians.
Tho military movements of the en
tente allies are hindered by the flight
of the civil population before the
Bulgarian advance.
Kastoria Is 25 miles south of Monas
tlr on the extreme left of the entente
front In Macedonia. It lies about 30
miles southwest of Fiorina and Its oc
cupation indicates that the Bulgarians
are pressing southward their move
ment on the allied left flank.
Field Marshal von Mackensen was
reported at Kovel in July to direct
operations against the Russia in
Volhynia.
rectors, the conclusion was drawn
that it concerned the concession of H
the eight-hour day. ;
An invitation from Vice President
Marshall to all of the representatives jH
to visit the senate today was ac- jH
May Concede Eight-hour Day. ', H
While outwardly the railroad offl- H
cials maintain their attitude of re- ' H
sisting the eight-hour day there was a H
feeling among administration offi-
cials that they finally would agree iH
to some proposal including six hun- 1
dred and forty representatives of men , H
met Vice President Marshall in the ' H
senate offices. , jH
Vice President Talks to Men. ; H
"You are here," said Vice President jH
Marshall, "at the invitation of the : jH
president of the United States to pro- ; H
vent what would be a disastrous j H
strike. I trust you have the same H
confidence in the president that I ' H
have. I shall not attempt to say any- ; jJ
thing that might interfere with his , IH
Brotherhoods Issue Statement. jH
Brotherhood officials issued a , jH
statement attacking the sincerity of : 1 H
the railroads in Insisting upon arbl- '
tratlon. They point out that about ; jH
75 small lines, which they declared i 1
are dominated by the larger systems, jH
the managers have refused to include ; 1
in the negotiations. The reason for IH
this, the statement said, Is the com- j jH
paratlvely small number of men em- ( H
ployed on these lines and that "de- j
mands on these properties- da not H
constitute a menace as they do on the jH
larger properties. . '
it is true, the statement said, that 1
the executives of the four brother- j jH
hoods advocated passage of the New-
lands' act but they did so "under the ; ,
mistaken belief which subsequently ;
has been shattered, that its terms j
would be carried out in good faith j
by the representatives of the compa-
J
Referring to the railroad managers
in behalf of the unorganized men on jH
their lines the statement said that on IH
a large number of these lines to join
a union was regarded as a discharge
able offense and this explained why
so many employes are not organized.
The brotherhood meeting this aft
ernoon was brief. No business was
transacted and adjournment was tak
en until tomorrow.
"erSrizia I
Crosses Bridge Under Relent-
less Fire of Austrian Guns ,
People Shout "Long l
Live Our King."
Udlne, Italy, Sunday, Aug. 20, via
Paris, Aug. 22, 12:22 a. m. King Vic
tor Emmanuel entered Gorlzla today
under tho fire of he Austrian artll- lH
lery. Lucinio bridge, which he crossed
to enter the city, continues to bo the j
object of relentless shelling by tho '
Austrian guns, but unmindful pt tho
danger, the king determined to make
a personal visit to the captured city.
The king wont to the city hall,
whero ho inquired regarding the mea
sures which have been taken to re
store the civil life of tho city. Girls
working in the vicinity learned of his
presence and improvised a manifesta- j,
tion which was interspersed with !
shouts of "Long live our king, long
live Italy!" ,
News of the royal visit spread j
throughout the city and there was a
demonstration as the king's automo- j
bllo passed through the streets.
DREAMY WALTZ TO " I
SUPPLANT TANGO
Chicago, Aug. 22. Tho old fash-'
loned, dreamy waltz Is to supplant . jH
the tango, according to Thomas Mc- . jH
Dongall, of Pittsburg, president of
the American National Association of j;
Masters of Dancing, which is In con- I
vention here today. 9 j
"The old-fashioned waltz always '
led up to the time the tango mndo
Its appearanco and we propose to re-
establish it," President McDongall as- i
serted. "I don't mean that the' tango ,
Is to ,be done away with entirely: !
we are going to doviso a new and (1(
conservative form for this dance, tho ; :)
feature of which will bo simplicity. i, ,
