'J
f - ' ' . ' I '
v - . . ",, . ' . ' i ' ''
tkx wrvr
Ton'.;ht and
cloadf. ,
MR. MERCHANT.
An ad In The Kogle will bring buyer
and teller together.
lite
AND PILOT (
VOL. XXX. NO. 194.
BRYAN, TEXAS, TUESDAY, AUGUST 22, 1916.
price $4.co per A:::;r:
feffe-
i
r
1
I
V
Emmai Troops Am Now
rail
Crisco
Is pare and wholesome
and keeps well In warm
weather.
FRESH STOCK
Hardy Newton
GREECE FULLY
DRAGGED INTO THE WAR
PREDICTED
T
EXAS
LADSLIDTOG
.O.P.
GUARDSMEN
STUDY
SPANISH
LANGUAGE
Firfhtinrf Continues on the Salnnica Front and
Greeks Are Fighting the Bulgarians Which)
Brings Greece Into the War on the aide of the
Allies Russian Troops Are Disembarking
Today at Salonica, Which is Further Proof of
a Gigantic Movement-in; the Balkans by the
Allies Rumania Is Again Hanging in the Bal
ance and Her Entry Into the War Siding With
the Allies Is Daily Expected British and
French Made Gains on the French Front-
No Change in Galicia.
Pat-A-Cahe
A Prepared CAKE FLOUR, nothing to add
water Phone us about it.
H. F. MacGregor 8 Id Hughe May
Carry Lone Star State, Due to
Mexican Policy.
(Br AssorluM rresa.)
Chicago, Aug. 22. H. F. Mac
Gregor, Republican National commit
teeman from Texas, told those In
Y. M. C. A. Inetlgate Work of Teach.
Ing 8oldlere How to Talk With
Mexicans on the Border.
London, Aug. 22. Fighting on the
Salonika front, where It ia becoming
apparent the Entente Alllea have
etarted an extensive offensive move
mint, le becoming more general. This
waa evidenced today by the landing
Roumania In Doubt,
Berlin, Aug. 22. The Budapest
Reid Bros.
REPASSED
THE ARMY BILL
Sections Which Caused the Presi
dents Veto Were Eliminated In
Revleed Form.
(Br Associated lTea.)
Washington, Aug. 22. Without the
revised articles ot war, to portions
nam diseis
TD BE KEPT GT
As a Preventive Dr. H. C. Hall hae a
Moet Rigid Examination and a
Very Thorough Fumigation.
(Br Associated Press.)
Laredo, Tex, Aug. 22. Aa
a pre-
Axest which 1. usually wel, Informed Z.Z JVS '"TmLIJT
n h. Rnnm.ni.n .itn.iinn tnrtav .. from Mexico, all passengers ana
" - ' i me House toaaj repassea un lurmer
nrlnta a ilitnatrh from Ita Rltrhnrftst 1 lmi wv.. o
(Br Associate Press.) waa evidenced today by the landing " " , " -".army appropriation u. tuc
Brownsville. Texas. Aug. 22.- 1o the first contingent of Russ an h V," "P" " w m .
Spanish baa become the troops at Salonika and the partlclpa- "" " . . 7 .. . 00IU nu'on TCloea lB"
" "oou """ i nr nortiona it contains not oeina ac-
Studylng
popular pastime of the day among the tlon In the fighting againat the Bulge-
- , National guardsmen stationea in me nana oy ureeita. i ne uresKs t nv , .
charge of the Western Republican , BrownivtlIo dutrlct of the betn ; ,n tn, vlelnlty of Serre. e"d of mobilization 1. re.pon-
-cooled down. It la stated that possi-
campalan headauarters that he be-- ...... , elble for the change.
lleved there waa a possibility of,, " . . .... .....u ".w. .. Note-Thl la the first hint of Ron-
I.U.UIQ W UIIUCI .Ullll W. Mv . I nillSll I www i ' , . . . , . .
censor
Hughes carrying Texas In .November 'n,.,. .BUI1clatlona of the eoalled don, while the offensive has bdln d.-i
"splgs" and other Mexicans with veloplng from an Entente Allies'
"There Is no question but that the
sentiment among the voters of Texas
la opposed to the administration of
President Wilson." said Mr. Mae-
tact, a number of guardsmen resolr-
whom they are dally coming in con- standpoint
The Bulgarians, said to be under
ed to master the difficulty. The command of German Field Marshal
tmanlan mobilization that has
permitted to paaa the allied
ship.
Gregor. "If thla sentiment were reg-
,"D ","r'' I""- Ynnn. Men's Christian
tlon but that Mr. Hughes would rry ',,.. on th. .a,,.
. ' Vteachera from iirownsvine ana sur near
.1.-1 . 1. 1 mi i j i
tuuiwi inn. iiiia win im uunn, bi y0umJjpy
though there Is a possibility of It. The teryrfg
people or Texas are especially dissat
isfied with the Democratic adminls-
cording to bis ideaa.
towns
Carman Battleship Sunk.
I-ondon, Aug. 22. The British offl-
freight entering te United SUtea
from the southern republic undergo
thorough Inspections at this border
point
I Passengers are examined rigidly,
and when any 'doubt exists aa to their
cleanliness, they are given a gaaollzt
bath and their heads are treated ti
kill Ilea. - A vinegar shampoo la ofUa
used.
All freight can from Mexico,
whether loaded or empty, are placed
' on the international railway bridge at
a. m. daily and are there fumigated
n.ii- r.inht a.rvie with hrdroclanlc acid gas. which la
""U,,U"" ' ' .. . .
la Announced by Management
DnniuccDVirriT
IILIDIII UUIIIUL I
III-
i
' THE B. 1 C. T.
To Begin This Week.
'Woman Spy Executed.
Paris, Aug. 22. The execution of a
woman any named Felice Pfaat at
Association -Stuma valley, occupying Demlr Hixar Mar.elei WM reported today in
Several after routing the Brmen ana rrtnen jj.tm digpstches.
na pur- nvar oerrs, ctgroing ia in ooiih
volunteered their official statement The Bulgarians
also occup'ed Kassotra and Corytsa.
Almost nightly, as a consequence, in the Doiran sector the Serbian -al announcement
classes are held in the T. M. C. A. troooa eaoturad Forts Kaimakalar it ! iit1 Rtrmin hattl- .'a T r. anent reaterdar in the city
fpfttlnn tiArana. nf Ita lat... n.1l ' ... .... - '
" y.,.j. bmirtings which are attended by rrom and Cucurlu. hlp of the Massau class haa bee a and made a trip on the Bryan i en-
Mr. Hughea' atatement of that policy 'm to flfty wIIIn. students In ! Progress waa made by the French lunk by the Britlah submarine E-22. ral Texaa Internrban road down aa
K-n-rum, w.nB rnunenur lair that UnmRe whlrh K myitined on the Somme front In the outskirts
...u rrr. u.a noroer as on lnelr trrtv. of Clary, Paria announces. South of
we do the people of Texas have had
an opportunity to observe the actual
working out of that policy.
"The sentiment among the Demo-
deadly to all forms of animal and veg
etable life. After undergoing fumi
gation for the period of one hoar.
Aelght is then ready for the attention
A party of railroad officials of the of na)mM Bipec0fli wn0 ,nTarUbly
this afternoon Southern Pacific system and the H
cratlc voters of the stale waa ex
pressed In the recent primary vote on
candidates for senator when former
Governor Colquitt who has vigorous
ly opposed Prealdent Wilson's policy,
was the hlgheat man on the ticket
The tote Is regarded as significant
when it la remembered that Texas
haa three members of Prealdent Wll
aon'a cabinet. Another significant
feature of the situation waa that only
about 40 per rent of the Democratic I
vote was registered In the primary.
Texaa, of course, haa always been a
rock-ribbed Democratic atate, and Its
possible Inclusion in the Republican
column seems almost Incredible, but
It will be well for political observers
to keep their eyes on Texas In this
campaign."
of Clary,
The "aplg" Is a term given to un- the river the French captured the
Americanized Mexicans by the early trenches near Eatress and Sovecourt
arrivals of soldiery some years ago. The British troops on the Somme
It grew out of the almost invariable front advanced along a line half a
Latin answer to American questions: mile long In the Pozleres region, and
'No 'splg' English."
WILSON
OBJECTS
TD LITERACY TEST
Let It Be Known He Would Veto
If It Came to Him With That
Prevlalon.
alao made an advance near Lelpaio,
said London today.
The Russian army of the Caucasus
has gained further ground from the
Turks, capturing considerable terri
tory weat of Lake Van, In Aremenla,
Petrograd announced today. On the
TO ACCEPT Win
The place makes the
mora bearable. Ovid.
banishment
appear at I o'clock.
Supervision of all health regula
tions Is In charge of Dr. H. C. bull,
atate Quarantine officer at thla ootot
far as Jobnpark. Tne pany consist wh( ukw preW)delIC, ow attact:j
of E. B. Cushlng. assistant general of ,h UnUed gute puMc
manager of the Southern Pacific Md marJne hogpu, MrTlcfc
alines; J. W. Creep, receiver for the
B. A C. T. I.; J. B. Barry, superinten
dent of the Austin branch
. o..k h. a p SKI II II nmihs
1. V.., rUICUIIM UIUIIU
.Bridge department and
,, . ,. . .. w . , C. roadmaster. These gentlemen, ac-
Rallroad Presidents Are Working on, , .
. , . T k.. s companled by Manager Levlnson or.
Counter Proposal Today, but Be- '
I mtj lut ai nan. uiauv in, i.m
'trip, and after a conference waa held '
jit was Announced that a freight aerv..H.avy- Rtnt n and Near the C!'
the in would be Inaugurated on the 25th CalM4M, Cammarelal Aaaeelatlen
PI IS THE BELIEF
lieved Will Accept Plan.
Bf Aaendata Press t
Waahlngton, Aug. 22. While
rrl ?: SECOu'D HES
IP fdstf:
main Caliclan battle front there is no railroad presidents are working today or 2fith of this month.
change.
on a counter proposal to President A large bridge crew will arrive this
Wilson's plan for averting the great afternoon and will at once start the
to Pool pone Tradea Trip.
After all the booetlag and p'.'.: ;
that the members of the CommercU
All Serbian poaitlona on Malka Nle- railroad strike, the Cabinet went over Work of reinforcing the bridges along
xen Planla, east of Banlca, en theUhe situation fully today. The an-'this Mne so as to permit heavy loco- . . ... .
. . - , Aaawiaiioa bh uon to luiviual J
msceaoma inn, nava saan capwraa nounrement was maae inai tne ociiei .moties to cross mom.
by the troops of the Central powers, of the Cabinet waa that In the end
Aug. 22. Prealdent says the Berlin announcement today. 'the railroads would accept the Presi
de known today he the French, the announcement adds, dent's plan aa already outlined.
(Br Associated Proas.)
Waahlngton,
Wilson let It
would veto the Immigration bill If It ftsvo been driven out of Buthkova and I
came before him again with the lit- Thamloe.
eracy teat and with that the 8enate a
defeated a motion to take up the Mrs. A. Goodman left this after
measure, and returned to the con- noon for Calvert where aha will visit
slderatlon of the rest of the bill. relatives and friends.
UGGIE
. Just Received
A CAR LOAD OF NEW AND SNAPPY STYLES OF MOON
BROS. HIGH GRADE BUGGIES -SPECIAL DISCOUNT
OF 10 PER CENT ON CASH SALES.
W. J. Ill WILL
SPEAK FOR WILS01I
This arrangement will be of great
benefit to the land holdVrs In the
Brazos Bottom and The Eagle con
gratulates Mr. Levlnson on getting
the service through.
MEXICAN COTTON PICKERS.
siillaftifstfSaiBjaavaiiA
Id Fd
Former Secretary of State Will Start
Tour for Democracy About Sep
tember 15th in Ohio.
fBv Associated Pras.)
Tew York. Aug. J2.-Wllllam Jen
ninga Bryan's speaking tour In behalf
of Woodrow Wilson and Democracy
will start about September 15th. prob
ably In Ohio, and will continue onto
election day la November. Thla an
'noaneemeB. waa made from the Na
I Clonal Democratic headquarters today.
trip advertising the regular bob'J.
tradea day. which will start on Cj
first Monday In next moath, tic?
were forced to call It oft thla morat
on account of the heavy rains In an
around tha city. In referring to sani
this morning Secretary McElroy mil:
"We regret very much not being al'-
, to make the trip, but e feel that til
A large colony of Mexicans arrived moMT w" nt "r tUM;
last night over tha H..T,C who u ot " '
are 'coming into this county to pick Pnoees. Wa have at least let U:
cotton. R. R. Bnila. the accommodat- W Inow 10,1 MB u
Ing baggaita man tor thla . road. In ' -
apeaktng ot tha crowd this morning. m' PorP"
said that from tha fuas they were rP 9 CM PwlWy ba ar
maklng around Ska platform yoa ,n" . J
woud think there were several hun.l
dred of them, when the' fact H there Alaat sorrow from happtnees la c:
were only about thlriy-flve. evolved. Goethe.
PRESBYTERIANS.
The Fcles Orphan Home la very
much In need ot funds to defray the
running expenaea of thla Institution,
and It waa decided at Jhe congrega
tional meeting held last Sunday to
take up a special collection Sunday
August 27th. for this most worthy
cause, and we nrge everyone to be
prepared to make a liberal contri
bution for the relief ot these little
ones. ELDERS.
AVE DOOT WART YOUR BARIC ACCCUI
But We Do Wnt Yea Attt:ti:a !
Wc want to remind you that we sell every
thing for the home. .Wc would like to
you our stock of Furniture and Convince
you that HERE is the logical point at which
to make your purchases.
17. T. JAL71EG, Furnlfturo
o
