3
BARBE BMLY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 135.
RARRE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, AUGUST 22, 191C.
PRICE, OXE CEXT.
Mil
GREAT DRIVE IN
BALKANS OPENS
IN BIG FORCE
Russian Troops Arrive to
Participate in an Effort to
Reclaim Serbia, Greeks
Are Fighting Bulgarians
and Rumania Is Said to Be
Ready to Enter War with
Entente
says a ITavas despatch filed at Saloniki
yesterday. In the Dolran section the
Serbian troop captured Forts Kaintaka
dnr and (hiourlu. The heaviest fiiihting
is on the front northeast of aloniki and
on the loft bank of the river Struma
from Kavjala to Barakli. On the west
em end of the line the hostilities were
confined mostly to the artillery. .
' -
FRENCH ADVANCED
ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE SOMME
HUGE GATHERING
OF TROOPS THERE
Since Sunday Morning, the
Greeks and Bulgarians
Have Been Fighting Vig
orouslyBerlin Reports
That Bulgarian Left Wing
Has Begun a General Of
fensive and Is Winning
North of the River Their Progress Was
on the Outskirts of Clery and South of
the River They Captured Trenches
Near Estees and Soyecourt.
Paris, Aug. 22. Progress was made by
thl French last night on the Somme
front, north of the river, in the outskirts
of Clery, the war office announced to
day. South of the river the French cap
tured trenches near Eetress and Soye
court.
CAPTURE BULGARIAN
FIRST LINE TRENCHES
The offensive in the Balkans is in full
swlsj with the Russian troops arriving
to fight with the entente forces and Ru
mania reported about ready to join in
the war on the side of the allies. The
landing of the Italian troops continues
and an unofficial despatch reports the
Greek troops as involved with the Bul
garians near Seres.
The arrival of the Russians and the
Italians at Saloniki is an indication that
the allies have decided to concentrate on
this front forces sufficient for an impor
tant campaign, although it is only about
350 miles in an air line from the Russian
to the Greek border. The nearest points
in Rumania and Bulgaria lie between and
the Russians were obliged to travel
thousands of miles, possibly over an At
lantic route, via Gibraltar and the Medt
terranean.
London, Aug. 22. Greek troops have
been fighting Bulgarians in tho vicinity
of Seres since Sunday morning says an
Athena despatch to the Exchange Tele-
rrraph company. The Greek commander
at Seres has called to arms all the re
servists in that locality. That the fight
ing is of a frtuliborn character is indicat
ed by the fact that a large number of
Greeks have been killed.
Seres City contains about 30.000 peo
pie and is about 45 miles northeast of
Saloniki.
HALF-MILE FRONT
TAKEN BY BRITISH
Advance Made in Pozicres Region and
Also in the Vicinity of the Leipsic
Salient, London Official
Report States
London, Aug. 22 British troops on the
Somme front advanced along a line half
a mile long in the region of Pozieres and
aiso made an advance near the Leipsic
salient,' the official announcement says.
RUSSIAN ARRIVAL
CAUSES SENSATION
AMONG GREEKS
Initial Brigade of Russian Troops Has
Reached Sloriki to Join the Al-
1- ir. the Balkan
righting.
Athens, JiTy 31, via London, Tuesday,
Aug. 22 (Htn-yed. by censor). The ini
tial brigade rf the Russian troops has
reached Saloniki to join the allies in
the Balkan fighting. The arrival of the
Russians caused a profound impression
here.
Entente Allies Have Begun Their Great
Offensive oa the Saloniki Front
British and French Have Crossed
Struma River.
Paris, Aug. 22. A general offensive
along the entire Saloniki front was
launched on Sunday by the allies, ac
cording to an oflicial statement issued
by the French war office. The Serbians
have captured the first line of the Bul
garians on the left of the battle front.
but have lost the town of ltaiuca, south
of Fiorina. On the center and right
wing heavy fighting is in progress. The
British-French forces have crossed tho
Struma and are attacking Bulgarian po
sitions northwest of Seres. The text
of the statement follows:
"On August 20 the allied forces at Sa
oniki took the offensive on the entire
front. On the right wing the Anglo-
French forces have crossed the Struma
and are attacking the enemy on the Ka-
vakli-Kalendra-Topalsva front (north
west of Seres.) They are, ' in contact
with a position strongly held by the en
emy at Barakli (eight kilometers south
west of Demir-Hissar.)
"In the center violent artillery actions
are taking place on the southern slope
of the Boles mountains and on both
banks of the Yardar, in the region ex
tending from Lake Doiran to the Vardar
the allies have consolidated positions
they occupied on the preceding day.
"On the left wing in the mountainous
legion between the Cerna and Moglenica
rivers the Serbian troops have taken the
first line trenches of the Bulgarians on
the heights of Kikuruz and have occu
pied the forts of Kaimakcalar. On the
extreme left after inflicting heavy losses
on the Bulgarians debouching from Hor-
ina on Banica they had to abandon this
latter place and have established them
selves on heights situated to the east.
The battle is continuing."
MORE. GAIN
BY PLAGUE
Every Borough in Greater
New York Reports
More Deaths
AND INCREASE
IN THE PATIENTS
Massachusetts Had 16 New
Cases Today, Making
159 in August
New York, Aug. 22. Every borough in
Greater New York reported a alight gain
n infantile paralysis to-day with 39
deaths and US new cases reported in 24
hours. There were 33 deaths yesterday
Boston, Aug. 22. Sixteen new cases of
infantile paralysis were reported in Mas
sachusetts to-day, making 159 this
month.
ITALIAN KING
VISITS GORITZIA
BULGARIAN ARMY
HAS OCCUPIED
DEMI HASSAR
Sofia Wir Office Reports That the Left
Wing of the Troops Has Begun Gen
eral Offensive in Stroma
Valley.
Heilir.. by wireless, Aug. 22. Official
announcement was made by the Sofia
war orf.ie that on Aug. 18 the Bulgarian
left wing bepan a general offensive, ad
vancing in the Strum -alley, occupying
Demi Hessar and establishing itself on
the left bank of the Struma, after re
pulsing British and French near Sere.
The seizure of the road between Fio
rina and Koritsa, as well aa that between
Koritsa and Kastoria, was also an
nounced in the statement which bear
the date of Aug. 20.
Victor Emmanuel Desired to See the
Austrian City Recently Captured By
His Troops and His Act was Greet
ed By a Great Demonstration.
Undine, Italy, Sunday, via Paris Tues
day, Aug. 22. King Victor Emmanuel
entered Goritzia to-day under fire of the
Austrian artillery. Lucinio Jaridge,
which he crossed to enter the city, con
tinues the objective of a relentness shell
ing by the Austrians. but unmindful of
the danger, the king determined to make
personal visit to the captured citv.
News of the royal visit spread through
out the city and there was a demonstra
tion as his automobile passed through
the streets.
RU3IANIA MAY
JOIN ALLIES
Opening of Allies Offensive on the Salon
iki Front Has Revived the Old Ru
mor That the Country Will
Depart from Neutrality.
London, Aug. 22. The opening of the
Hied offensive at Saloniki has been the
ignal for renewed reports that Rumania
is at last about to throw in her lot with
tho entente. These reports are more cir
cunv-ttantial than ever before and the
omments of the German pro's indicate
that they are lar from being devoid of
foundation. One Berlin newspaper goes
so far as to declare that Bumania has
1 ready joined the allies, and that plans
are being laid for the march of a Rus
sian army through Rumania territory.
Major Moraht, the famous German mili
tary critic, also believes that Rumania
is negotiating with .Russia and hints at
an ultimatum to Bucharest from Ger
many and Autsria.
The entry of Rumania into the war
on the side of the entente would mean
the forging of another link in the chain
of foes surrounding the central powers.
The material aid which Rumania could
give would be of a vet " important char
aeter. She has had In.. wen 500,000 and
600,000 troops mobilized for nearly
year and her army is reputed to be one
of the best equipped and trained m iu
rope. Apart from possible Russian rein
forcements, Rumania would be in a posi
tion to deal a powerful blow at Bulgaria
from the north in conjunction with the
allies' drive from the south. It has been
generally understood that Russia has
been willing to concede the province of
Bessarabia, the population of which is
largely Rumanian, in return for Ruma
naian in the war. Bessarabia is 18,000
square miles m extend and has a popula
tion of nearly 2,000,000.
BORDER GUARD
WILL BE KEPT
Until It Can Be Withdrawn Without En
dangering American Lives and
Property, Says Secretary '
Baker.
GERMANS NOT ALARMED.
-BRITISH WIN IN EAST AFRICA.
SERBIANS HAVE WON
TWO BULGAR FORTS
Henrieat Figttitg Is on Front Northeast
of Saloniki and oa the Left Bank of
tie Strum River, Says Re-
foTi to Pari.
Paris. Aug. 22. Fighting on the Sa
Jocii rest Is beconurg more genera
Have Forced Passage of Wami River in
March on Kilossa.
London, Aug. 22. British forces in
German East Africa have forced a pass
age of the Wami river and are approach
ing the important town of Kilossa, ac
cording to an official statement issued by
the war office last evening. Tie state
ment says:
"Lieutenant-General Smuts reports the
British, advancing from the Njruru moun
tains, encountered at nightfal of the lfith
a strong enemy force holding the pass
ages of the Wami river on the road to
Nrogoro. Fighting continued until the
night of the 17th. when the enemy re
treated. The British occupied the cross
ings at dawn and are now constructing
bridges. Meantime Lieutenant-Colonel
Vandeventer infiirted severe losses on
the enemy near Kidete station on the
Central railway and is approaching Ki
"Further east. British rolumns are
moving on Dares-Sslaam, supported by
naval operations on the roast."
A RIDICULOUS REPORT
That Japan Is After a Coal Station Near
Panama CanaL
Over Possibility That Rumania May Join
the Allies.
Berlin, via London, Aug. 22. Dis
patches from Bucharest published in the
German newspapers indicate that the
situation in Rumania with regard to that
country s stand m the war is still very
active but without a crisis being appre
ciably nearer. The efforts of Take Jon
escu, minister of the interior, M. Filipes
co, and the Mille group for precipitate
action by Rumania in joining the en
tente powers, are still being met by
moves on the part of M. Carp, leader of
the Conservative party. Alexander
Marghiloman and M. Majoresco in favor
of Rumania continuing neutral.
Seemingly, according to the despatches,
the conservatives are gaining slightly.
The conservative group is being accused
by M. Mille's organ, Adeverul, as aiming
at the downfall of the government of M.
Bratiano in favor of the Carp-Marghilo-
man coalition. The conservative organ,
Steagul, says the present situation of
uncertainty is increasing public opinion
to the danger point.
German public opinion apparently is
not alarmed at the prospect of Rumania
entering the war. In official circles the
situation is viewed calmly, and a simialr
attitude is being maintained in Vienna
According to reliable sources in Bulgaria
the prospect of a war with Rumania re
mains popular, owing to the desire of the
Bulgarians to regain Dobrndja, territory
Iving along the Black sea, which was lost
by the treaty of Bucharest in 1912.
Meanwhile the central powers have
bought another 2,000 carloads of beans
and peas of this year's Rumania crop,
and shipments from Germany to Ruma
nia of industrial products by means of
the Danube or through trains continue.
Wedding Bells.
Dinah, wilt thou take Erastus for
thy wedded husband, to have and to hold
from this sy forward, for better, for
worse, for" richer, for poorer, in sickness
and in health, to love, rherish and obey,
till death you do part!'
No, ssh, I takes him just as he is. Ef
he gets any better he'll go to heaven. Ef
he gets any worse 111 take him to the
police station. rack.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 22. The Na
tional Guard will be retained on the Mex
ican border until it can be withdrawn
without again endangering American
livea and property. Secretary Baker so
declared the administration's policy yes
terday in answering a score of letters
from many part of the country com
plaining that the state troops were be
ing held in service after the emergency
for which they were called out apparent
ly had passed.
In general the complainants whose
names wers withheld allege that border
service was entailing lots financially on
mintamen and hardship on their faim
lies. The secretary replied to all those
seeming to merit attention.
The department appreciates, Mr. Bak
er said in one letter, the fact that
call for military service upon militi
organizations must "inevitably present
cases for hardship. He added:
The emergency, however, which re
quired this call for the militia was one
of a crave character effecting the safe
y and lives of citizens of the United
States men, women and children. The
presence of the militia on the Mexican
border has restored order and given
higher degree of safety and securing to
the lives of our people in that troubled
country than they have for a long time
had. The militia is therefore performing
valuable service.
Referring to the elaborate and exten
sive training the militiamen are receiv
ing under supervision of regular army
officers the secretary expressed the opin
ion that it would enable them to act In
time of war or other emergency aa a sup
porting arm or second line for the reg
ular army, furnishing an asset to nation
1 preparedness that could not have been
obtained otherwise.
"Clearly, so soon as a restored state
f order on the border justifies it these
troops will be returned to their homes.
e wrote.
In the meantime, it is not possible
for the department to say how soon such
a situation will arise, although the Mex
ican situation is one of increasing hope
fulness."
To another correspondent, the secre
tary explained that the National Guard
as maintained for just such exigencies
as that which now exist on the border
nd that it had cost the government
many millions to prepare and keep it
ready for such emergencies. He pointed
out that national guardsmen were fully
aware of the duties thev undertook when
thev enlisted.
RAILROADS
DRAW UP REPLY
LABOR DAY AT INTERCITY PARK
Plans Made for Celebration of the Day
Along Usual Lines.
Intercity park has been selected as tlm
setting for the annual J.abor day ceic
bration of the Central labor union o:
Harre anil vicinity this year. The holi
day occurs on Sept. 4 and the program
td by the union committees indl
TV. A o. Tl- prepared by
vv;i tu i ica. (MiBoiiB jatM tIHt there will be plenty of enter
Proposal to Avert
Strike
WILSON HOPEFUL
WILSON WILL VETO
IMMIGRATION BILL
If It Is Passed By Congress with Liter
acy Test Attached Congress May
Desist from Trying to Pass
Measure.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 22. President
Wilson informed his callers to-day that
he will veto the immigration bill again
if it is passed by Congress with a liter
acy test. There had been reports that
ho might sign the bill, but the president
stated emphatically to-day that be is
still opposed to it because of the test.
It was said that he was indifferent
whether Congress passed the bill again,
as he was determined not to sigiv it.
Word that he would veto the bill went
to the capitol and it was expected to
stop the efforts to put the bill through
the Senate,
As the result of the president's state
ment, the Senate, defeated a motion to
take up the bill and tetumed to a con
sideration of the revenue bill.
That the Situation Is
Unchanged
tainment throughout the day. Rev. F.d
gar Oossland of the First Presbyterian
church is to speak on the subject, "The
Melting Pot of Labor," in front of the
grandstand at 1:30 o clock in the after
noon. The traction company has prom
ised to collect only five-cent fares be
tween Barre and the park and between
riTT CTTTTT T7MT?TT Montpelier and the park.
races and a baseball game. The Harre
Citizens' band will present a solid front
and do its level best to make good music
brotherhood Urhcials btate ?0' the i,tors- A fivr;:lde ..v10.1-
du inan'ii tor a purse oi win oe
played in the forenoon and in the after
noon St. Johnsbury and the liarre A. C.
will meet on the diamond for a purse of
$100. Prizes are to be awarded for boys'
and girls races and there will be awards
for a shooting competition. Other a mime
Washington, D. C. Aug. 22. The an- ment will be provided and in the even
swer of the more than 60 railroad nresi- ln8 w, De aMnc' "owiana tiau
...... ,, , . . under the auspices of the C. L. L.
uenw, inc.ua.ng wiose oi western roaa rrongide ., vretuent of the pn
newly arrived, to President Wilson's pro. Ural committee and Angus McDonald the
posed plan for averting the threatening secretary. Chairmen of the nub-commit
trike, is being formulated to-day by a r " Spt, Fred W.
uom.umee o, eignt magnates. freshments. Harrv Dale: dance. Edward
Brotherhood officials described the sit- Anderson; grounds and transportation,
uation as being unchanged. In adminis- Cyrus R. Hall. Trucks from Granite-
tration circles, it waa said that there vilIe. Websterville and East Barre will
, . .. operate continuously throughout the day.
" Rohert Mutch has been se eded to act as
The exact nature of the proposal to be referee of the championship football con-
submitted to the president was not re- test,
vftlrt lint, if UQ a K1iav1 that if Knn.
' I Dtr i nv pad tutt rurru Tnrro
I 1L. .! - I I VrtA A wV AUi. A A V V .
lay. One suggestion understood to be Barre Board of Trade Goes to East Ran-
under consideration was the submission dolDh Wednesday Evening.
of the issue to the interstate commerce
Members of the Barre Board of Trade
commission of the provision for making please remember the next better ac
a permanent commission of investigation, quaintance tour occurs Wednesday even
suggested by President Wilson. in?- AuK- 2i with ""PP"- nJ entertain-
IllVIlb MS JjH at XUtllUUjpil. V.HIIUIIP UI
WILSON'S APPEAL cneetra win lurnish music at the supper
and the isarre hand win give an outdoor
Was Made as from One Citizen to An- concert. Hie HoHrd ot trade wiu snow
aoout li views ot narre ana ner maus
tries. Owners of automobiles will please
other.
GETTING READY '
AT STATE HOUSEi
For Special Session of Leg
islature, Which Con
venes Thursday
SOME OFFICE' iRE
BEING f ACATED
The Officials 7 Not Exnect
More Th. fwo-Day
S Aon !
With the special session of the legisla
ture only two day's removed, everything
remains unchanged at the State House
and it is probable that none of the legis
lators will arrive in the city until to
morrow afternoon. The industrial acci
dent borfrd will vacate, during the ses
sion, one of its two rooms to allow the
secretary of the Senate to occupy his
regular quarters and the clerk and speak-'
er of the House may move into their
rooms at any time, the state purchesing
agent having removed to offices down
town over a month ago.
Officials at the State House are not in
clined to believe that the legislature will
be in session more than two days, Thurs
day and Friday.
DEMOCRATIC NAMES
FOR COUNTY OFFICE
Washington, I). C, Aug. 22. As one offer the use of their machines for this
merican citizen to another, President trlP to the automobile committee, ti. W
1 I Tipk-f.a for t hp snnnr. hft r.pnta pflrn. can
tivea of the uotuttry'B principal railroads, purohacd from the above committee
on grounds of patriotism, to accept his or from H. A. Phelps. Purchasers of
plan for averting ihe threatened dis- tickets will have free transportation to
t . tt ana irom rant xvnnaoipn
I TTin frtmmifrpw tpocmtti 1 tpj f.hrt PM1
phasized the necessity for keeping the Lroug guppt,rt they have received in mak
railroads in service as a part of the na-ing these get-'c'ther occasions the sue
tional defense and to make possible prep- cess they Iibv i d. These trips are
aration for meeting conditions that will cerTa""-v . rc "
iuC UiuF.-ii aneial and ccmin.m tv sr. rit. locally and
Un leaving the White House the rail- w-ith our neighbors. Automobiles will
road presidents, augmented durinsr the come for people in front of the city hall
day by arrivals from the West, held a ae o:w ociock.
Win faftirtfO of u'liisti) (2 ci n i rti onf tvas saiHI I
; , ; "-""-I TO RETURN TO NORWICH.
to oe against agreeing to tne presiaent s
proposal in its present form. Hope was Major Frank Tompkins Detailed as
1
xpreased, however, that some satisfae- Head of Military Department
vaied dit Northffeld, 22.-Orders have been
to a committee the task of drafting a ,8Slea Y lne war "".P"""'""-
KI rt.l.r rt 4 K a .A An I .UO l"l i luuiv '
11 11 a 1 ici'iy 1 1113 'i cfliui 111. 1 - , 1 -
The railroad heads still insist that 1 u'1 . """-
President Wilson is asking them to sac- -ric.. '"-J"1 "'"i-"-
-.J 11. . m.-.u. then Cknt. TomDkms. first came to Nor-
nnce trie principle oi arouraiion, r.nsim - , , 7 . , , ,,, , 1
.irL.r. ( ih r,rr.a nmmit. wich in the fall of 1010 and remained
: " . . 1 i-Aarui.it nf flia aftirlonTB far.
"It we are to throw arbitration into "f "t" y
the scrap heap what hope can there p"1; a , . K' neiai p" ' " . , '
Washington, D. C Aug. 2. At the Life.
Japanese embassy to-day it was said
that the published reports of alleged
Japanese aggressions in Panama for ac
quisition uf a coaling station were part
of propaganda to alarm the United
States and were so riiiniSous as to make
jhs. !'.Ua)-iit cj iraiai iaseoeeat.
Nth Degree.
Talk about torture!"
"Year
"Xothing is worse than sitting in a
barber's chair with your mouth full of
hither, watching the boy trying to give
another customer your Panama hat."
Patient Hut, doctor, you are not ask
ing ?, for merely taking cinder out of
my eye?
specialist Er no. My charge is for
reaiovicg a foreign substance from the
cornea. Eehobuth Sunday Herald.
RECEIVERSHIP INEVITABLE.
Declared President Hustis of Boston
Maine R. R.
Boston. "Aug. 22. The opinion that
receivership for the Boston & Maine
railroad was inevitable was expressed by
James II. Hustis, president of the roa
in a statement last night.
I see no hope of avoiding it, Mr.
Hustis said. "The reorganization com
mittee has no new plan to offer, the
leased lines have not submitted any new
proposition and we have received no as
surance that tho note holders would con
sent to another extension of the notes
nor that the banks -would recommend
it again."
Mr. Hustis said further:
"It is my personal opinion that the
notes will not be extended again. I see
no hope for anything but a receivership,
This is not threat nor bluff.
'"It is not merely a matter of extend
ing the notes. The Boston 4, Maine can
not go on forever with its present un
sound financial structure, nor with its
physical condition ss it is to-dav.
"The question of whether the road
shall go into the hands of a receiver
must be decided between now and the
last day of this month. It may be de
cided to-morrow. The directors may
vote not to extend the notes, or they
may leave the matter in the hands of
the executive committee."
KILLED BY FLYING PLANK.
MAYOR MITCHEL HELPS
TO AVERT STRIKE
New York Railways Co. Agrees to Rein
state Workers Dismissed for Disor
derly Conduct During
Recent Strike.
New York, Aug. 22. A threatened re
newal of the strike on the surface car
lines of the New York Railways com
pany was averted late yesteniav wh-n
. . i v- I.- AiA ..n
b in America for industrial nea,;e in Aiier B ur,ra u,u u ,7
... i 1,1 . 1 1 4 4- it- V ..mkiil
the future? 1 . J"exlcan "er. " v,'u'""
"A nation-wide strike is unthinkable r,cl . n was lno , 'r vl "T v ?
hen the railroads are urging that aH wnion nrst pursueo u.
the matters in dispute be placed before a.er- w ""' 8.
any tribunal constituted by public au- "'7 " .gureu ...
Arhifrotinn is itrnsw hir nrrrsca AH 111X3 lcftllvl v
" ,a w.vu ""Pi " It-. , ... it. - t J 4
B. to hnt.h hor. and wares on railroads. vish them; and it was only by his hue
ti,. v.i.a. u... mil leadership that they did not succeed.
x n T3 r;inntig inn vi acsw " an tuwvu-v. i , " , , , . -
,..f f f, r.il. While m Mexico he was wounded twice
road brotherhoods and the represents- last naa to r. vrn to u ,,.
tives of the railroads. And yet the lead-
3, who urged this law now takes the detailed to tne i irsi yr .u..b
... ..? .. . . . Vmt Ft;han Allen. If this remment
position tnat a question oi nonrs is oe- . . .. . ,
vond arbitration had 1en orR8nlzed 14 wa3 unde"00'1
" "TJut wages, riot hours, are involved that he was to have been its colonel. Nor-
in these demands. Xo proposal has been whmi is to oe s
. .... .... . mi Ui.nmi, hia mnit pfnripnr. leader.
made to establish an eight-hour uay. J ne "
demand is for an eight-hour pay basis,
and this is the interpretation given by
the president in the proposal now before m
the railroads. The employes have em- Victor L. Dumas of Burlington Was Hit
phatieally made it known that they do in the Chest,
not want eight-hours' work for eight- priington, Aug. 22. Victor L. Dumas
hours' pay, a real eight-hour day. f .g8 p. gtreet dip(1 at 12:i5 oVlock
Althouch a few of the railroad execu- l . . , , th Mrv Fleteh-
tives invited had not arrived this aft- - K0;;o1 i.. wa. taken Katur-
ernoon, it was decided that those already d afternoon, following an accident at
in Washington were representatives, and champiain ghop9) wnerc he was at
therefore, the president called them to work jle he wa8 running a sttW( it
the White House and earnestly urged kioked jn Mmc mannor throwing the
that his plan of settlement be affirmed. , . h Bawine against his chest
"I will not allow passion to come into nr, .,: intTn.i
my thoughts in this solemn matter," . : " Ho wa9 nlglied to the hospital
he said. "We are both as trustee oi . on vpste,dav morninir. but
great interests. L0 no avai)
"I am willinir to allow this matter to ,n w ;
go to the great American jury and let I " 3-' vrRrg old. H( ig aurvivj
them assume the responsibility ine by hifl w,f Anng; b two daufrhters,
responsibility of failure will not rest (;ladvg aped jnc yparg 8nd stpIlai aged
With me. f,,,r Kv hia mnlliM Atr .Trwipnll
"I wish you to consider the conse- , ' u,4i, VrnA onj ..
quences, as affecting the people of the . j,' this citr ,nd bv tw. gig.
cities and countrysides oi a lain re to . ch.rlP8 Hawkins of East Wal-
acrree. i ne coonirv nnmu iur
means of keeping alive its vitality are
interfered with. The lives and fortunes
of 100,000,000 men, women and little
children many of whom may die de
pend upon what may be done in this
room. 1 appeal to you as one American
citizen to another, to avert this dis-
ster."
The president spoke in more intimate
fashion than he has spoken iu any pre-
ious conference. He referred to the
isastrous effect which a strike would
have, "especially at this time when ev-1
err oume of American enerjry ana in-
itiative has been mobilized to meet the,
extraordinary situation which will J
emerge out of the European war
List of Nominations Filed on Last Day
of the Time Allowed Names of
Candidates for State Of
fice Filed.
Democratic candidates for county of
fices filed their primary papers to-day
with the county clerk, to-day being the
last allowed by the statutes for filing
their intentions and papers. The fol-'
lowing candidates will comprise the Dem
ocratic ballot: Sheriff, Dennis Donahue,
Barre Town; assistant judges, George L.
Pray and George A. Tilden; senators,
T. E. Callahan, Montpelier, Charles C.
1 .'binson, Waterbury, Arthur W. Hew
itt, Plainfield; state's attorney, Harry
C. Phurtleff, Montpelier.
All of the Republican candidates for'
state offices and for congressman and
senator, have filed their papers with the
secretary of state and practically all the
Democratic candidates have followed
suit, although the office force has not
yet had time to count the signatures on
the papers of the Democratic candidates,
they having been filed late yesterday
afternoon.
PETITIONER WAS ABSENT
When His Case for Accident Damages
Was Called To-day.
When the plaintiff in the case of C.
Compo vs. the Royal Indemnity Co. failed
to appear or send a representative, the
hearing before the state industrial acci
dent board at Hotel Barre this forenoon
was adjourned and the case dismissed.
Chairman Robert W. Simonds of St.
Johnsbury and Sanford A. Daniels of
Brattleboro were the two members of
the board in attendance and they were
accompanied by their clerk, Miss Laura
Burbank. Through the firm of McAllis
ter & Kent of Barre, the Royal Indem
nity Co. was represented by Atty. S.
Hollister Jackson.
Compo's case grew out of an accident
which he suffered at Jones Bros.' plant
nearly a year ago. It was alleged that
he was detained from work bv an in
ured finger and that after a settlement,
he signed a paper releasing -the indem
nity company from further liability.
Afterward, the company alleges, he ap
peared at the office of their representa
tives and asked for more compensation,
statintr that the finger had become weak
ened in such a manner as to prevent him
from doing manual labor.
SUES FOR $25,000.
lingford and Mrs. David Lavoie of this
city.
VICTIM OF HIS OWN TEAM.
HAY BILL REPASSED
he company and its employes reached ' withnnt tho Feature to Which Wilton
an agreement through the efforts of j Obirrfed
Mayor Mitrbel. Fourteen workers who
were dismissed because they had been
convicted of disorderly conduct in con
nection with the recent strike will be
Charles Rome of Burlington Was Run
Over Last Friday.
Burlington. Aug. 22. Charles Rome of
4S Bright street, a junk peddler, died
yeterday morning at the Fanny Allen
hospital.' as the result of injuries re
ceived in a runaway accident Friday aft
ernoon. n mat amy. nome wii nringing
a load of iron to F.ssex Junction and
when about a mile from the village his
horses bme frightened and ran awav.
Rome was thrown from hi seat and fell
in front of the wacon, which pas.-ed di
rrt!y over his chi-st.
The de-ea-,-d is survived, besides bis,
wif. by four chiMfn. Louis, Ida. Mver
and Anna; by four sisters, Sarah of this
city, two of Boston and one living in
Europe; and by two brothers, Parnt and
Muha.-I of this ritv. Funeral urtirT
Richford National Bank Plaintiff Against
St. Johnsbury Men. ,
St. Johnsbury. Aug. 22. Action was
taken recently by the Richford Xational
lank against Herbert A. Stanley and
Robert McKinnon, former members of!
the bankrupt firm of Griswold & McKin
non, in an endeavor to recover money to
the amount entered in the writ of $2,
OlIO. lent on notes sisrned by them. In
each case bail was set by the superior
court of Vermont at 125,000 and was fur
nished by both parties.
The writ was served on Herbert Stan
ley in St. Johnsbury bv Sheriff Worthen
and wag made returnable at the Septem
ber term of the superior court, sitting at
St. Albans. Bail was furnished for the
defendant by St. Johnsbury people.
Sheriff Hill of Newport served similar
papers on Robert McKinnon at Xewport,
This writ was made returnable at the
September term of superior court sitting
at St. Albans. The $25,000 bail was fur
nished by parties from Sherbrooke, P. Q.
AS CARS COLLIDED.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 22 Without
the revised articles of war, to portions
of which Wilson and the war depart- wt-re held restrrdav mominsr and burial
reinstated, and other differences will be ' ment objected, the Houw to-day re-wa mad- in the n-w Hebrew eemet-rry
settled by arbitrativn, it was announced, pa&sed the army appropriation bJL cn "orth avenue.
Two Occupants Were Hurt at Lancaster,
N. H.
Lancaster, X. H., Aug. 22. Mrs. Au
gusta Bustaraente, wile of a member of
the Cuban senate, ni'tained a fracture
of one arm and one Icjr. and her sun,
r.ti-tavo. had two tinkers broken when
their automobile crllided with another
car on a harp turn near here late yes
terday.
Mr. Bustamente. who was also rid
ing in the machine, escaped unhurt.
The U'Jiei' annual golf tournament at
the Barre CriAt club links will be held to
BiofTow afternoon. , -
