Nlppoa Mtrn. Jl J. V" ' l f rT7 VS 7 TT 7 l7 K7 V S.J Vv. I VA' " f I V S 7 1 ? CW
For San Fnnclwo I' 1 f I' I II I J Cy" ' ' Z1! I I J k ; : lV 11 1 '
S5ii: -li iJi JJ lJJ- iiiA AiVv vii liv l Edifiie
For Vancouver: K , v -. , v ' .
Makura. July 2L ' v V;.V... j) y:-:7 .-'.-. . v- ' ' 7 :7; : ;;v M ' J
ETenlng Bullets EL im. No. 6514 U PAQES-HONOL
Hawaiian SUf. Vol. XXin. No. 7555 - ,
. - ......... : . " ' . - -
I
v
i
;!
ft
s
1 1.
! I
LBS OF IDA
; ;-. -
Cyrus H. K. Curtis Also Decor
ated at Big Philadelphia
, - Convention .
HONOLULU ADCLUB WINS
; : "MOST MILEAGE" BANNER
'- : flews""'"" -
: Trophy Offered '" By Boston
Goes to Fifteen Delegates
- From This City
4 . t X
4 CONVENTION WILL .
. - - . -CLOSE TODAY
? v . . ; -
-v- PHILADELPHIA, Pa.; Jane 29. -f
v Philadelphia' bit Ad Club con-
vention will close : late today.
- Pregldent Wilson i scheduled to
speak this afternoon. ' ' '
Edward Hurley, one of the
i ? speakers this morning , and .. an
ex-chalnnan of the federal trade
commission; urged a better un-
-f demanding between- business
. and government advertisers.
' y V W r
Star-SuStUa tpcUl KreonlTl
. PHILADELPHIA, P, June' 29.
. Honolulu and the. Honolulu Ad Club
- won distinction today U the great eon.
vention of the Associated Advertising
Clubs of the Wcrld. . .
With 15 deleiatee present the Ho
nolulu Ad Club . was . awarded the
mtlea: tanner offered by Boston
for the club whlcfjtent IU ddejates
; the lonjest distance ( to, .attend the
..V convention,; ' . ' :'.: ' ,:
in the monster psgeant whfch was
one cf the festures of the convention
, Frczrzn, Htr.tl Ju :airt scored heav.
i . iiy, with six Hawaiian musicians play-
Ira characteristic music and. ItSv dele
Cites march!rj alon;slde. - The Ha
v3l!?i c"ir;ly created, greatenthu-
"t';j-;;;..-'i..v ? T."- '" ' rt T T ' '
With Charies Ft. Fjzler leading, the
' t!:-:ttcn frcrn tar Hawaii also fea
t, C I s with. the present.
' tlon cf l.:a to dlstlnculsh visitors at
the convention. President Wilson,
, John Wanamaker, the famous me r
chant,' and Cyms H. K. Curtis, the
Philadelphia publisher,, were given
lels. Mr. Curtis' Interest In the ls
s Unit and his consistent boosting. cf
Hawaii wss recognized by the Ad Club
' members from HonoMu in presenting
, him the token cf Hawaiian esteem.
. PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC LEDGER.
Through special arrangement with
.the Star-Bulletin the Public Ledger is
J publishing every day of the conven
tion news from Hawaii for the benefit
of Honolulans attending the big meet-
ing. This arrangement is the result
of the interest in Hawaii Mr. Curtis
has taken, the outgrowth of his recent
visit here, and is ia line with the Led.
gers effective policy of "serving Phil
: adelphia," ' ' ' , : . .
- ; . '1 - t i .
NEW YORK STOCK
-: ; MARKET TODAY
Faliawlna are the closing prices of
stocks Jcn the New York market to
day, aent by the Associated Press over
the Federal Wireless: :
-' - " 4 ' t Yeater-
' L ; . '. Today, day..
Alaska Cold il.i....... 19Vi ' 19?i
American Smelter 93 91 H
American Sugar Rfg. . . 109f 51082
American Tel. A Tel... 130 130
Anaconda Copper ...... 82 80
Atchison 105 104
Baldwin Loco. ......... 77 77J4
Baltimore A Ohio...... 882 87
Bethlehem Steel . . . . w
Calif. Petroleum ....... 152 16
Canadian Pacific ..?..V 1762 175
C, M.oV St P. (St Paul) 972 96'a
Colo. Fuel A Iron....... 41H Ws
Crucible Steel v. ....... 76'2 75
Erie Common 35 35 .
General Electric ....... 167 165
General Motora
Great, NortKern Pfd,... 120'2 120',;
Inter. Harv, N. J...... 113 112
Kennecott Copper 47 '. 47
Lehigh R. R... 78!4 ' 77'a
New YorkXentral..,.,. 104'4 .103',
Pennsylvania .......... . 57 57"4
Ray Consol. ........... ; 22, 212
Southern Pacific ........ 97 B96
V
Studebaker .i.....,... 12754 -1362
Tennessee Copper 34 34
L'nlon: Pacific .f 1372 1364
U. IS.' Steel............ 85 84
U. S, Steel Pfd......... 117ft 117V
Utah 1 T . . . ; . .' . . 77 .76 y
Western Union ........ 93 92
'Westlnghouse . ... .... 594 58
Bid. fEx-dlvldend. tUnquoted.
RUBBER.
v The Waterhouse " Company has re
iceived advices that rubber ia 52.58
cents per pound . on the Singapore
market and 61 cents per pound on
the New Yorlt market.
.";v. : ' SUGAR. '7-7
' .: . - '
SAN FRANCISCO, Calv June 29.
A Cuar: 6 ties, test, 6.08c. : Previous
6.40c.-
Late
News
' PRESIDENT OF CHINA RECALLS OLD PARLIAMENT.
(Special Marconigram to Liberty News).
SHANGHAI, June 29. Li Yuan Hung, president of China, has recalled
the old parliament and ordered the members to report at Shanghai for a
meeting. This announcement means that Shanghai or Nanking will be fav
ored as the new capital of China. . ' ,
SALOON KEEPERS DO NOT HURRY FOR LICENSES.
' Late this afternoon Carlos Long, secretary of the board of license com
missioners,' bad received semiannual payments for only about a dozen of
the 55 application for license recently approved by the board. Long; has
signed all the applications and aay a that any saloon or bar not . in, pos
session of a new cerUflcate on the first day of July or afterwards mky be
closed by the authorities. . ' . w--r C :
HELP JULY 4 CELEBRATION AT KAHULUI.
Arrangements announced by the Inter-Island company this afternoon
will help Maui's July Fourth celebration. It was first announced that the
steamer KlUuea would leave Kahulul at 10 o'clock Tuesday night, bat ar
rangements have been made o allow the local crowd to take, part In the
evening festivities, the launch servic e from the dock to the steamer be
ginning at 11 o'clock, and it Is expected that the Kllauea will get away
for Honolulu ahout midnighL An earlier hour would have cut short the
festivities for Honolulu visitors. Maul is making great preparations for
the event . r' : ' : ;'. ' " ; '.v.' ' ;'
PAT US WIN
i m we w
KP.7 VORK TILT
Quakers Jump to Second Place
in National League Cubs.
7 and Senators Climb:
Atoifted Prcii by F4rl Wireleei)
NEW YORK, N., June 29. The
PatmoranB jumped Into , second place
In the National Leagne race this after
r.oon when thev defeated the GlanU
In a double-header. ' Chicago In the j
fifth place by virtue of then wlnr over
the Cardinals. ; Washington "blanked
the ' world's "champion and climbed
from aixthV to, . f ourth; place " In thd
Johnson Jesgue.i The scores", of "the
games today .were as follows: , ; ;
Xt'-New York-PMIadelphia New
York 0; Philadelphia 5, New yotkz.
At Boston Brooklyn 2, Boston 0.
At St Louis Chicago 3, St Louis 2.
v ; " .
V : AMERICAN LEAGUE.. i
At Cleveland St Louis 5, Cleve
land 0. ' - ' i: r7
At Philadelphia New York 5, PhUa
delphla 0. . - :
At Chicago Chicago 8, Detroit 0.
At Washington Washington 3, Bos
ton 0. ' ' v ' r;-'-.
. NATIONAL LEAGUE. '
; . ; Won. Lost Pet
Brooklyn ...... i... 35 21 , .25
Philadelphia v. 32 27 542
Boston 29 25 537
New York 28 28 500
Chicago ............ 30 ; 33 476
Cincinnati .......... 29 32 475
PitUburg .......... 27 30 474
St Loula .... 26 39 400
AMERICAN LEAGUE.
. i - ' rwon. Lost Pet
New. York 77U 37 ,24 607
Cleveland ........... 34 28 543
Chicago ........... ; 33 28 641
Washington v. . 33 29 y $32
Boston i ... 33 ; 30 l 524
Detroit ...,. 34 31 523
St"! Loula 26 i . 35 , . 426
Philadelphia ........ 18 43 295
A cablegram received by the com
mander of the Hawaiian "Department
U. S. A today, copies of which have
been forwarded to the various post
commanders, contains the information
that the order detailing certain offi
cers in Hawaii to the citizens' train
ing camp In the Department of the
West has been revoked.
This rans that about 30 army offi
cers stationed on Oahu. who were in
cluded In the order, will not leave for
the mainland in the July transport as
they had planned to do.
W. A. RAMSAY IS NOW
MANAGER OF CATT0N-NE1LL
The board of directors of Catton,
Neill & Co. met today and named W.
A. Ramsay to fill the position of man
ager and : director, taking the place
of-Win. G. Hall, who recently resigned
to accept a position with the Honolulu
Iron Works Co. Other officers elected
were Alonzo G art ley as president, tak
ing the position vacated by Wm. G.
Hall, who held dual offices in the com
pany, and John Waterhouse, who now
is first vice-president in place of E. F.
Bishop, resigned.
Application for a passport has been
made, in federal court by Mrs. Pearl
Hadley, who will leave - Honolulu on
the Makura on July 21 for Seattle by
way of Canada. , ; ; ;
ALL DETAILS TO
' Wtl REVoitED
mm liiaice
VOLHlSl
News !- of - Check,.. Delivered to
Slavs Not Substantiated 7
; ; By Petrograd ; " s
LONDON, Eng June 29-Un-usuallly
heavy krtlllery fire today ac
companied trench , raids, continued
thla afternoon on the British front
where gat clouda are being used. .
' ' .' , ' . . . - f
C PETROGRAD, Russia, ' June .29
The Russians have Infllctetf a great
defeat on the German between the
DneUter and the Pruth rjvert, cap
tttring three llnea of tranchea. ;
PETROGRAD, Russia, 'June 29.
The Russian ' drive. In the .Volhynl
sector is unchecked. . . ; '' ' ;:
Yesterday on thla ' front : extending
down into Gallcia, the Slava .. took
11,000 of the enemy and are pressing
steadily forward. :- .i
FRENCH FIREEFFECT IV E
PARIS, France, June 29. Follow
ing violent bombardment of French
positions the Germans today made a
heavy ' Infantry attack northwest, of
Thlaumont on the Verdun front but
were repulsed. The French turned
loose a veritable curtain of machine
gun fire which devastated the ranks
of the attackers. ' 1
WEST FRONT IS ACTIVE
BERLIN, Germany, June 29. The
fighting on the west front was violent
today: The British and French at
tacks were repulsed everywhere.
J Jtaliansadvancing
ROME, Italy, June 29. The Italian
advance on the Trentlno front contin
ues, the Austrians being pushed
steadily back. The Italians stormed
Fort Mattasone in . the Arsa valley
and stormed and carried the ridge of
Monte. Trappola, V v ' -
LONDON, England, " June 29.
Lloyd's agency announced today the
sinking of the Italian steamers Mon
glbellow, Bona and Pino. '
GERMAN OFFICIAL
CABLEGRAMS
GERMAN HEADQUARTERS, June
28. The enemy in several places en
gaged strong artillery fire in connec
tion with mone blastings and under
protection of gas smoke-clouds car
ried ' out - advances which were re
pulsed without any exception on the
south Labassee canal front '
Northeast of . Limesnal enterprises
of feebler enemy's detachments failed.
West bf Meuse: French night hand
grenade attacks near Morthomme
were repulsed.
East of Meuse: After 12 hours of
violent Are preparation, the French
during the whole day attacked with
partly freshly-arrived forces, positions
conquered on June 23 by us, on the
Froideterre ridge, in village Fleury,
and eastward connecting lines. All
attacks without exception under quite
extraordinary losses broke down in
curtain fire of German artillery and
in combats with c-ur brave infantry.
An enemy's . flyer was shot: down
near Douaumont On June 25 Lieut
Hoehndcrf, near Raucourt, north of
Nomeny, disabled a French biplane,
which makes hU seventh aeroplane.
The German headquarters report of
June 23 erroneously stated that Brit
ish were among prisonered assailants
of Karlsruhe. All the prisoners are
French. .
Ltnilugen's army: The' village . of
Linlewki, west of Sokol, and Russian
positions to the southward, were tak
en by ttorm, otherwise there are no
important changes.
Balkzm front: Artillery duels be
tween Vardar and Dorianlake are tak
ing place.
Sir Refer Casement Sentenced
1o DiFor "HpTrcason"
Irish Leader; Who Returned
From Germany to Launch
Rebellion, to Die as Did His
Companions - Taken During
, Dublin Revolt y; ; V "
(Sttf-Brfetia SpeciaX 3farcoalfnal
LONDON,, Eng.; June 29.-Sir
Roger Casement, found guilty, of
high treason for; his part in foment
ing the Irish rebellion,. was found
guilty today after a '( trial; which,
with its preliminary stages; has oc
cuoied manv weeks. L Immediately
after the finding ;was v announced,
the court sentenced Casement to
death. "7 '' 7.. "' 77.7-
.: Sir Roger Casement captur
ed bv the British authorities before
the outbreak of j the revolt at Dub
lin but it was; known that his mis
sion to Ireland from Gerrnany was
to stir up rebellion. - Casement was
captured in KerryVA peasant walk
ing along the beach came on a strand
ed bct,; evidently j recently; used,
and reported the occurrence to the
police station at 'Ardfert.',. A ser
geant and twt) constables. went but
to investigate, learned of three men
who had been keen'hurrj'ing across
the: , sand-hiUsi and - iher - some
search" found Casement half hidden
in.: the underbrush in ah '' old I rish
circular fori. .He; was taken with
out . difilculty and shortly afterward
removed to iJohdon. ; Casement
reached Ireland in a. sniall steamer
said to be, the ".Flying Dutchman"
and "carrying armsi f or the Irish re
bels -The -vessel wai flying the
Dutch nag in Tralee Bayon the
KfiatiJfffQai. picked 4Jpvtyta
British trohbdaArcompahion
captured; with Casem'enCsaid -that
they had come from Germany in a
submarine but this story is general
ly, scouted. :;V : . . ' ' i''
STIMEMINTERFERR U.Si
VF.MF.L
' . . . -.- f:. 7-.
i V ; (Aiwol.Ud Prow 8rri hr TtintL W1m1m) ? .
SAN FRANCISCO, CaL, June 29. Th waterfront strike, situation took
a serious turn today when striking longshoremen interferedwith teamsters
loading the U. S. supply ship Mars. The commandant off the Mar island
yard Immediately Vlred the chief of police to request 'Governor Johnson to
sent out a, call for federal troops, If necessary. . . 77:77
- ' Chief White assigned a heavy guard of police and .said that this, would
be sufficient to restrain any disorder. The nnlon men declared that the
interference -with the loading of the Mars was a mistake anT- that there
la no Intention of Interfering with U- S. warships or ether naval Vessels.
COAST DEFER GOULDS (U WW
COMPANIES VILt IWPRIVATEHOtlE
DEREASSIGPlED lOfflOIEL
Company organizations of the regu
lat army Coast Artillery -Corps will
soon exist no longer, under an order
received today by cable from Wash
ington to the Hawaiian department
The order in brief directs that offi
cers and men of the corps be assigned
to tactical units, depending on the
needs ot the units. The order, based
on the p.ct of Jimo 3, breaks up all the
coast defense organizations.
Coast artillery officers . will be as
signed to duty with troops under the
requirements of the acta approved
August 24, 1912, and April 27, 1914,
better known as the "Manchu Law."
"The assignments will be made on the
basis of technical requirements and
administrative needs of coast defense
cdmmaad and fort command as' au
thorized under existing regulations,"
says the order inpart,
DR. SUN YAT SEN MAKES
SUGGESTIONS TO PRESIDENT
(Special Cable to Liberty Newt)
SHANGHAI, China, June 29. Dr.
Sun Yat Sen has wired to Li Yuan
Hung, President of China, asking that
Lung Chi Quan be. asked to resign
as governor of Kwantung province
Tong Tsao Yee, former Chinese pre
mier, also wired to the Chinese Presi
dent urging the Peking government
not to recognize the present Kwan
tung governor. Ching Pik Kwong has
been named as chief of the Chinese
navy.
In the chefa cases in ' police court
this morning Ah Sam waived hearing
and was committed to the circuit
court; Ah Kwai was fined 150; Tana
ka, who is the prosecution's star wit
ness, was given a suspended sen
tence and Ah Fong was sentenced to
two months. -
I
SIR ROGER CASEMENT
7 "Qt the Irish rebels1 concerned; in
the revolt which broke butimme,
diately after Casement's capture,
and wnich had. been pre-arranged,
ten were . sent enced J to, death a'nd
have been shot, according to there
pdrts which have reached hereand
at least 30 others Have i received; f
sentences, some, of ; them lortg te'ns
pf penal' semtude;Anut9xr of
death sentences were passed 'which
were.' afterward cornfttutecf to 'life
imprisonment, presumably; because
of the wide protest against the im
position of the "death sentences on
the leaders. " ,
Jay Gould Mrs. flould and family
who are expectedjffere on. the Wllhel
mlna next JTuesLy will' not reside at
any of thfHrfnoIuIu h6tels or beach
resorts butwlll take - comfortable
quarters In the studio of the' home of
Mrs. Gould's grandmother. Mrs.' Laura
A. Coney, on Rlchards'vstreet between
the University Club and the Central
Union church. , - '
The Goulds' two little daughters,
EHeanor and Anne, however, will stay
at the Moana. hotel with their maids
and nurses. .
Gould has never been in the islands
but Mrs. Gould has visited here often,
but not since her marriage in 1911.
The Gould party intends to stay in
the territory about two months.
GOVERNOR PLANS TO
GO TO LIHUE, KAUAI,
TO OBSERVE FOURTH
." :"
"1 am expecting to go to ' Lihue,
Kauai, to attend the Fourth of July
celebration there, if nothing happens,"
said Governor Lucius E. Pinkbam at
noon today. "I will represent the ter
ritory, and may visit other points if I
get time." He added that he is not
going on any official business and will
leave about Monday. ?
TWO ORGANIZATIONS NAME
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEE
Two organizations, the Promotion
Committee and the Ad Club, have res
ponded to an fnvttatlon of Raymond
C. Brown, secretary of the Chamber
of Commerce, to appoint a member of
a general committee to arrange for
Oahu's part in the Civic Convention
to be held in Hilo in September. L.
De Vis-Norton has been ' appointed by
the Ad Club and Emil Berndt by the
Promotion Committee. :
SAT
MISTAKE
VMM to-l!::p Persia's lfcj o!:Cc ,::,::n-
Lcrgo Fcrco of foroistas l!::r Gi2r.:n-lGl!i G:vi;
c pill Wtzi r.j Wcm C:1 V."::n Tan: j Lc::j -
(AseUt4 Prt 8rrte 1r FsderU Wirt)
- COLUMBU3, N, M, June 29. According to reports which have reach; i
here, 10,000 Carranza cavalry have mobiliztd at Bustlllo, 12.CCO Infz.-.tr
and cavalry at Villa Ahumada and 2CC0 at Guzmarv and other lir;
bodies of Mtxlcan troops are moving to the Sonora and Chihuahua bari:-.
If this la true. It Indicate that the Mexicans are carrying out an env:!:?
Ing movement around Gen. Pershing and his main command. PertMr j I;
readjusting his men to meet every move, making plans for a pett.il J
"battle. .'::;. . - .: '
: WASHINGTON, D. C June 29. Uncle Sam' demand that th?
idh cavalrymen captured by CarranzisUs at .Carrizal be released l.z
been complied with, but preparations for possible war. between the two
'countries have not been slackened by the war department
. No developments occurred today in the diplomatic situation, zr.
there was scant news of other developments on the border, but the sit
uation is such that a match might start a train of powder firing hostili
ties. ' : 7:'.'-7'-7 77 '777 7-" 7;7.--: ''r'' - -' :" -'
Preparations are unremitting for actual warfare along the border,
should eventualities result from the delicate situation admittedly txhl
ing. . K:7 ;!'VH--:; :.v ' ' '; " ' ' :- ?r ," ' r , - .
Troops are arriving from "many states and at all points of contact.
. One possible danger was learned bf today when U. S. Consul Sim
pich telegraphed that during an anti-American demonstration yestcr
in Nogales, Mex.t just across the street from Nogales, Ariz., the. con
sulate; was entered and looted. : v ; ; '
: The esident, ministers, from Bolivia and San Salvador have re
newed their offers, of mediation, on behalf of the Latin-American cc: .
tries But they have been again told that pending a def.nite reply frc
Carranza to the last U. S.' note of, demand, no offer of medlaticn c
even be considered. . . ' i ' ' -"-.- i ' ,' : ' 4-- .
1 C U Cavalry i:: Qcla: ::; Ac. r '
777- -Uu Jtcvhrl iny 1
- (AttoeUUd PrM 6rr!
"7 EL PASO, 'Tex.; June 29.
weekv most of the time, in jail at
10th Cavalry, together with W. SpilIabury; a scout, were brcu!.: t
the border, through Juarez, at noon today and turned over to thz A:
rican military authorities. 7"' 77:7:'t7 '7:,i''7'r
There was little formality in delivering the prisoners, whose srr
and accou'termenti were given to theni befor they were releassi.
The prisoners had evidently suffered hardships during their forci
ble detention.. Sorne of them had only trousers on . One had ncth!
but a shirt and a towel around his waist A Most of them had band-:::
handkerchiefs on their heads. All were half naked: -
:Spillabury,had a white duck suit, in marked contrast to his cc.-r -panions,
All of them were worn with fatigue and drawn with hardi!.'
and serious, .except one. He wore a smile and said, "VVe are sure .
to get back.. 7- " . -7 ; ; 7. .:,
20,COO GuardsmsD. on Vay to
; .'Dord2rr40,C0d .?,2ore Avails:
' . N h. W YORK, N; y,, June 29,
ed today that 20,000 national guardsmen fiC the Department of the Ea!
are en route to the border now and
iiiuiuiizcu at various camps.
: SAN FRANCISCO, Cal, June 2. The majority of the national
guardsmen of California, arid the entire national guard of Oregon, are
now en t route to, the Mexican border. : '?
New
Mexico
Troops to Bg Sent Over Border
-COLUMBUS, N. M., June 29. Three motor trucks o'f New Mex
ico guardsmen today shot across the line and went to the south. They
constitute the first state troops t cross the border and carry arms up
on Mexican soil. They were sent to help Gen. Pershing's troops guard
the line of communication. ' -; '. ,-
It is admitted that orders to send these troops across the line were
issued after advices had reached the military authorities that a large
force of Carranzistas was concentrating near Guzman, -;on the Mexican
Northwestern' railway. : . ; . : :7 .... -7
WASHINGTON, p. O, June t9. 1 flatly ref used to consider mediation
ui .ouicai uespaicnes lasi nigai uen.
rnnsion announcea mat ne w,
as sena
Ing the .Maryland jnilitia to.1 Eagle
Pass, Texas, and he wanted t&e Flori
da regiments at Del Rio, 'Texas, but
owing to the inability , of the state to
start its troops, some other arrange
ment will have to be made. The con
tingents from Maine and New Hamp
shire are ordered to Laredo.' .
The 2nd and 5th Infantry regiments
of the California guard, together with
a battalion of artillery and a com
mand of cavalry have been' ordered to
entrain and proceed with -all possible
despatch to Nogales, where the international-
quarrel , bids fair to break
into open rupture" at any moment. The
2lSt Infantry is stationed there on
patrol and has asked for reinforce
ments. It la possible that other mili
tia will be ordered there as well as
the California contingent, should It
prove that more men are needed. -Revive
Negotiation? , ; ' t '
v The question of mediation, dropped
for a time wnen the United .States
t'yFjAni Vi'ir.iil -
Freed after their cc:
Chihuahua,; 23 negro trccp:;
c:
i Geniral Leonard Wood announc
40,000 more are awaiting orders,
ililWFirst State
;on the matter of the release of tha
prisoners at Chihuahua, has been, re
vived with the news that those men
are to be released this morning. Sen
or Caldaron, Bolivian minister, an
nounced last night, that 'ha intended
to call on Secretary Lansing tilj
morning and renew the advancf-s el
his government toward, s-:urlr-American
permission to begin cu Jla
torial negotiations. , . .
. Reports have reached here that ex
tremely powerful foreign influence -have
been brought to bear upon Cc
ranza before he would consent to t:
liberation of the 'American prlicr:
Mexicans In tbeT United States t:
added their efforts ta thejs cf f ;r
bankers and business men It ? -They,
are said to have tal r
officials of tha de facto i
that the United States hal
temporumg,, ana now nezt t
and thtt the Mexicans
to -antagonize this co
own peril.
