Frank Carpenter
Look for His Alaska Letter in
the Sunday 7 imes-Dispat ch
iUdjtmmd STime^i
patcl]
Bringing Up Father
Never Loses Its Keen Wit and
Delightful Humor
MSth YEAR
VOLUIE
MMHEH 1M1
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 1916.?FOURTEEN PAGES.
u r. m iiku ir a rp
PACiK II -
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
RELEASE OF PRISONERS BY CARRANZA
AVERTS IMMEDIATE BREAK WITH MEXICO
Survive Rigid Physical Ex
amination Conducted by
Army Inspectors.
NEW RECRUITS ARE NEEDED
TO REPLACE REJECTED MEN
Acjutant-General Sends Telegra
phic Appeal for Increased Ac
tivity at Enlisting Stations.
MOVING DATK IS NOT FIXED
Impression Prevail:. Th;jf Orrterj. to
Proceed S;<!:iii Will N.?c
He l.wi)4 ?hI
**."rt r. r-'. 1 i.i v ? r'h n CVimp
}! Cart/-. I-? . .: ? ? ;r.s r ?: r: i rtr 2
r.\<-n wiil ? v.-.-,themseive.s
mustered :nio 11;? : \ \< of the I'nited
States and un*. :? ?'r .*??->! the Pres
ident to po .my : < ? 1 -j that
they may h< r.? .? . 1
All through th- '!. "?t. rail
until long aftei tap* ' h? army *- ti r -
?-? r.ns proceeded rh ? ?> ,ih their
work M'Ti al: <?:: ? ? ?:? .?? t ? ? ? J in th*
militia .'inrf raw rocruits. rushed fon
M.<.? f-r ? f i TO ? .? .rc.Vji; ? T
oTfice. there t" 1-Tirr. whether they were
Ii: to fight beneath the tl :t vr. which
f!''.;t? in fror.t of brigade headquarters.
Orders had come front Washington to
go ahead with examination and mus
t- i n-' :n with the utmost haste, so that
tiii* War Departni?.*nt might know how
i any Federalized military organiza
tion* could be pout to the border and
1 ? r!< r.ended upon for active duty.
.NO U)DIT1(I\U. (?lt|)i:ns
ki:ckivj:ij kiioji wamii\f.ruv
N'o ndditional orders have been re
r 'lived from Washington. l>nt Adjutant
Central Sale will lie ready by tc-mor
jow morning to move his troops. Trains
? ?ii rvery railroad entering Richmond
;>rc in readiness for the transporta
tion. The entire body in the camp
? ouJd be moved .it on e if it were prop
< rlv equipped. Supplies are needed.
Recruits who have been accepted are
still parading the grounds in civilian
dress and unarmed. .They may not be
rent away until they are equipped for
[he field.
Recruiting officers are still v.. ins
hampered by mothers. o?e traveled
from Staunton to a.-k that h. r son
be released, an I wept upon the com
manding officer's shoulder when she
was informed that he had heen mus
tered In. Other mothers have asked
Adjutant-General Sale and the Gover
nor tha-t their sons he discharged from
tlio service. Rut war's grim necessity
can pay no heed to a mother's team
or to a wife's request. -The women
have heen asked to hedp hy withdraw
ing tiieir appeals and by urging their
fons to answer the President's call.
Every effort is being made to keep
the men happy and serene. Ry the
Governor's order Kessnich's band will
play in tho grand stand every after
noon. from 4 to ti:30 o'clock. The Sec
ond Regiment has its own enlisted band I
on the grounds, and the hand of the i
First egiment will come in to-day.
J . \ \ MIX ATI O.N S DI II'I.ETK
COMMANDS i?0 IT.U CF.XT |
With the commands of the First and!
Second Regiments reduced by more
than per cent of their original ef- j
fectives. Adjutant-General W. W. Sale, i
General C. C. Vaughan, Colonel Jo!
I?ane Stern and brigade staff officers
bent every effort to urge en
listment of men physically tit for
duty in the. field. .More than 2,000
n on have been examined and mustered
in, but the State muster roll should
nunibo" S.tiOO.
The Adjutant-General telegraphed to
all recruiting offices in the State to
hurry their work, and recruiting of-!
flees were established In every com
(Continued on Second*-Page.")
? IfOTEr. KlTKORIt HOOF TO-XI/CJHT.
A1 'ilnner-supper, music, dancing, 6:30 to 13.
WW I
Formally Dissolved l?.v Mayor, Who
Accepts Resignations of Re
maining Members.
LOOKS FOR I'KRMANEXT GOOD
Tn Letter to Members, Mayor Ex*,
presses Hope That Conditions Have
lleen Improve<l by Enforcement of
New Policy.
After a career of little more than
two years. during which time St caused
a revolution of moral conditions in
Richmond and precipitated an inquiry
ir.'o affairs of the Police Department
p. >irri r.f P'-.'.ife Commissioners
?hi. h disclosed ofllclal conduct that
jhockrd the olty, the Vice Commission
war dissolved yesterday by Mayor
Ainslie The commission came ir.to
existence on Mur^h IT. 1914, when six
een members were nam?-d by Mayor
ViRSlie. and P is consequently abolished
bv ti:#- same power which created it.
Th- Mjvf.r wsted with ample au
?i-.'r.'v to atrai:; a similar body.
>. jf h .r- indi' .tted r.r> intention of
d(i::v so
The M ivor's art'.on .n flisb&ndlnp
?he member? *f 'he commission fol
lowed the receipt of a letter, signed
by Rev. J. J. Oravatt. P. D., president,
and Rev F. T McFaden, D. D.. secre
1 tary. inclosing a resolution adopted by
the commission, requesting' that the
f resignations o.* all members be ac
cepted and th body dissolved. Hav
ing caused the abolition of the segre
gated district and broucht about the
I organization of the public Morals and
Welfare Society, which was chartered
on Tuesday, members of the commis
sion felt that their duty had ended.
ministerial vniox
1>*A VOllKl? CONTINI*ANCE
Early in June, when Captain A. R
fJuigon and Rev. R. N. Caliseh resigned
from the commission, it was believed
that it would be abolished. However,
steps were taken by the Ministerial i
t'nion to have the body continued. To \
this end a resolution was adopted ask- I
ing the Mayor not to dissolve the com
mission, but to continue it and fill I
vacancies in the membership by the i
appointment of Individuals ' in sympa- ,
thy with its work l'o dissolve the j
commission at this time would be a '
calamity to the city," read the resolu- j
t ion. presented t<> Mayor Ainslie In
behalf <>f the Ministerial Union. by
Rev. Russell Cecil, D. D., Rev. W. L.
Campbell and Rev. Thomas Kemines. I
In dissolving the commission. Mayor j
Ainslie wrote the. following letter to ?
Or. Gravatt and Dr. McPaden: ,
"I beg acknowledge the receipt |
of the letter dated .lune 27, 1910, and
signed by yourselves, which, I am In- j
formed in a separate communication, .
was adopted by the Vice Commission I
at a meeting held on that date. In i
which the remaining members present!
to me their resignations as mmbeers of ;
the commission, with the. request that
they be accepted and the commission j
dissolved. I accept your resignations :
as requested, and hereby declare the
commission dissolved.
RECOMMENDATIONS WKHE
CARRIER OCT TO LETTER
"As you are well aware, the recom- j
mendations of the commission, in so far; j
as they bore upon the attitude of the j
city government concerning commer- :
cialized vice and were, directly respon- ;
slve to my letter of appointment, called i
for the reversal of a policy that had ;
been in existence here from time Im
memorial. Those recommendations, to j
wit: the abandonment of the policy of .
toleration and attempted regulation
and the substitution therefor of the I
policy of prohibition and strict and
vigilant law enforcement, were prompt
ly put Into effect by direct order from
this office, and have ever sinco been
carried out.
"I appreciated from tho first that the j
public service T asked you to perform :
was both undesirable and disagreeable, J
but I felt that neither of these ohjec- i
tions would prevent your members
from attempting a task designed for
the public welfare; and, whatever may
be said regarding the benefits of the
results of your labors. I share the hope
the most optimistic thatvtho condi
tions with which you dealt have been
Improved by tho enforcement of tho
policy recommended by you.
"In accepting your resignations. I
bog to return to each of your members
XContinuedTon Third Pa66.).
Tented city at Camp Ilenry Carter Stuart, where 2,500 Virginia guardsmen await orders to proreed to ihe. Mexican border
IS COMPLETE IN SOUTH
\pproximateIy 20,000 Soldiers Arc.
Under Canvas, Most of Tliem
Ready to Move to Border.
TRAINS BEING ASSEMBLED
Virginia and Florida Troops Expected
to Get Away Within Day or Two,
With Others to Follow as Soon
as Possible.
NEW YORK. June 2S.?Mobilization
of the National Cuard of 'he .Southern
States, called out for Mexican service,
virtually was complete to-night, ac
cording to information at headquarters
of the Department of the Last. United
States Army, here. All the units
called in Virginia. South Carolina, Ten- .
nessee. Alabama. Florida, Mississippi
and Louisiana were in camp, while the
last of the Georgia troops were ex
pected at Macon to-morrow, and of
the North Carolina troops at Morehead
City on Saturday.
Approximately 20,000 soldiers, includ
ing infantry, cavalry, field artillery
and signal and hospital corps, were un
der canvas at the nine State < amps,
and several thousand of these were
about ready to move to the border,
part of t:.e Virginia and Florida troops
being exp?ected to get away within
a day or two. Flans were for all the
others to move as soon as they were
ready, and troop trains were being as
setrMed at several f the camps.
Recruiting stations have been opene-i
in all of the States, and the work of
filling in the various units to u.tr
strength was proceeding rapidly In
several States the Governors have
issued calls for volunteers, and re
cruits were being moved to the mo
bilization camps almost daily. It was
expected that when the troops cot
away for the border, most units would
be near the maximum strength, in spite
of the number of guardsmen rejected
; for inability to pass the medical ex- j
j amination.
IlRIXfil.VO I XITS I 1' TO
Ft I.I, WAIt STHKXfiTn
COLUMBIA. S. C? June 2S.?Physical
examination of South Carolina's militia
called upon for border service began
to-day, and while no orders have been
received for the troops to go to the
border, efforts are being made to drill
and equip the large number of recruits,
as well as to bring the different units
up to full war strength. This State
was called upon for two regiments of
infantry and one troop of cavalry, all
of which is mobilized here, makinsr
some 2,300 men. It is not known here
when they will be ready to leave.
TF..V \ ESSF.F. Tit OOPS
SOON UK A DY TO MOVF.j
NASHVILLE, TF.NX., June 2.V?With
2.1 t0 men in camp here, the mobillza-j
tion of the Tennessee National Guard
is complete, and the troops probably
will be ready to entrain Saturday if a
shipment of shoes and clothing arrives
in time, as expected. Examination of
the guardsmen is proceeding rapidly.
In addition to the First and Third In-j
fantry, there are one. troop of cavalry,
one field hospital and one ambulance j
company here.
The first order issued by Colonel
Carey F. Spencer on taking command ;
of the camp was to name the campj
Tom C. Rye, in honor of the Governor.
CRAIG AVI It ES IMtESIOENT
t >" OHTII CAIIO I, I.N A IS HEADY
[Special to The. Times-Dispatch.]
RALEIGH, N. C.. June 2S.?"The Na
tional Guard of North Carolina Is
ready to obey the orilers of the Presi
dent of the United States, and volun
teers to go into Mexico or elsewhere,
as It may he ordered, regardless of the
technical provisions of the army re
organization bill."
Thus reads a telegraru sent to Presi
dent Wilson to-day by Governor Craig.
It was sent, the Governor says, for
the reason that some members of Con
gress are making the point that the
President has no right to send the sol
diers Into Mexico He says that every
man In the North Carolina Guard Is
ready to sign any enlistment papers
volunteering his services to the United
States anywhere any at any time.
TAKE A TRir TO BALTIMORE OVER
THE FOURTH.
ft round trip next Saturday, good returning
until WcdncuUay via YORK RIVER LINE.
?Adv,
V
IE
Force Austrians Back Along
Almost Entire Front in
Trentino Regions.
BRITISH OFFENSIVE NOT ON
French Recapture More Ground
From Germans North
east of Verdun.
'"Jains of additional ground by the
It.i'lnrs from the Austrians, by the
!? rench from the Germans, northeast of
\ eniun. ar.d by the Germans from the
Russians in Volhynia are chronicled in
the lares: official communications is
sued by the Italian. French and Ger
man War Offices.
It is nated in addition that the A us
tr:ir.s arc- rtill holding back the wing
or" the Russian army, which is endeav
oring to drive past Kuty Bokowina.
with IColomea as its objective.
In the Trentino regions, the Italians
continue to force back the Austrians
along almost the entire front, having
/nade progress at various points in the
region between the Adige and Rrenta
liivers, in the Lagrina and Arsa Val
leys. between the Posira and Astiro
Rivers, and along the upper But River.
M1CA> V ROMR.tRDMKVr
CAKItlKI) OX HV fiKRMA.VS
?Vortheast of Verdun the French have
!?? .ptured ivori ground from the Gar
s' s north of hill 321 and arouvd the
hi.iumont work. Northwest of Ver
min. th? Germans carried out a heavj
bombardment against the Avocourt and
Chattancourt sectors, but were pre
vented from launching r.n infantry at
tack from the east of hill 304 by the
effectiveness of the French atf'illerv
tiro. In Champagne, the Germans oc
cupier. French positions near Tahur.
nut Liter wore driven out.
On the British front, the expected big
offensive by King George's men ap
parently has not yet begun, hut they
are carrying out at various points suc
< . .<? Hi r.ilas on German positions, and
T aV'V fr<"" ""
I-a Rassee Canal to the south of the
.^mme. In th, ,atter rcRjon fmiii
British attacks were put down by the
? ermans according to Berlin. "
? ont Milling their eounteroffensive
ngainst the Russians i? Volhynl* the
? ermans have captured the village of
I.I new ka. to the vest of Sokul. and ?|=o
em'i hy Storm Positions to the
nr, ,h" village Vienna report
iR further Russian attacks near Kux'v
in Rukowina have been re;?,lsef| by ti?>
A Hytrin n forces.
'?'tween the Vardar River and T.ike
oirnn. on the Greek-Serbian bo/do-,
artillery duels are taking place.
fJKn.MAxs i)Kr,rvE? wotheh
attack X KA It KI.IOI IIV
-S?German troops last
night delivered another attack <?., the
h rench positions noa,. Klourv ^
?ec or of the Verdun front over win. b
violent lighting has been in pro,, .
f?r "ays. The assault was
cm J bV Kreno1' ,iro
< '"1" e announced to-day.
Thii\ere Wi,S sr,,rit,?f, lighting near
Thiaumont work, which the t;,n?;iI1s
captured several days ago. but no
' 'ook in the Situation
thoie W est of the Mouse there was
no infantry lighting of importance.
Artillery engagements occurred in the
sector between Avocourt and Chattun-!
court.
Tho statement follows:
Iii^ the region south of J.assigny'i
the Germans endeavored last night to j
deliver several surprise attacks upon
minor French posts. Ail their efforts
resulted in failure.
"in the Champagne district, a strong
reconnoitering party of the enemy!
which was trying to reach our lines j
"long the road from St. Hllaire-I,o '
Grand to St. Souplet was dispersed hy
our fire.
"On the left bank of the River
Meuso there has been artillery fight
ing in the vicinity of Avocourt and
Chattancourt. At hill 304 and at Dead
Man's Hill there have been minor en
gagements with hand grenades.
"On the right bank of the river thore
was a counterattack at 3 o'clock this
(Continued on Second Page.)
Am eric an Prisoners,
\ Under Heavy Guard, j
i Being Tafyen to Juarez
Liberation of Troopers Cap- j
tured at Carrizal Results
From Peremptory De
mand on Carranza.
! Eli PASO. TEX., .June 2S.?President
Wilson's peremptory demand on Gen ?
oral Carranza for the release of the
. ' l
American prisoners held in Chihuahua j
penitentiary to-day met with com
I pliance.
i Late this afternoon it was announced^
from the comniandnncla in Juarez thar i
a me??nge had been transmitted over
'the Mexican telegraph which stated
that the twenty-three negroes of the '
Teivh Cavalry captured at Carrizal
?wsth I.em H. Spsllsburg. Mormon fcout.
? had been removed from prison.
The niffsasf added that the men.
with their arms and accouterments.
under heavy guard. had been placed on
a train bound t<*? r Juarez. where they,
are experred ?? .irrjve to-morrow morn
ing.
The ? e lepra n* conveying this news
was addressed to General George Bell. _
Jr.. commander of the El Paso base. It ?
was signed by <";? :,eral Jacinto Trevino.
commander of t h?* Mexican military
DifMi.n of the Xorih-r.'ssi. whose. h<-.o;
("lunrters r-re n* I'lvhuahua City.
HEI.I. HEFl'SKS TO > IV
Awninfi Aiiorr message
General Bell, i si keeping with his
(custom of maintaining close secrecy
regarding ;.H military developments, ,
refused to say whether he had re
jceived the message. He said that, all j
' announcements must come from Gen
eral Funsion, it San Antonio.
On receipt of word that General Fun
ston had given out ttie contents of the
message. lie said 110 escort would l>e
sent to meet the prisoners in the murii- j
incr. but an officer would he delegated
to take command of them and lead
I them to Fort Bliss.
! Mexican officials to-niglit were happy
over the turn in events. They said this
j would mean a lessening of the tension
j of the last few days. General Fran-.
| ( isco Gonzales. Juarez commander, and
j Adres Garcia, Mexican consul at El 1
? Paso, each said he regarded the in
cident as reassuring.
i "This shows that we do not want war:
unless it is forced upon us," Mr. Garcia
said.
Adres Gar<*ia, Mexican consul to El
Paso, to-night issued a statement, in
which lie explained that his reason for
remaining in Juarez during the. crisis
was to remove every possible chance of
friction. lie admitted, however, that
he felt safer in the Mexican town.
Kl. MtS Ills I'll I0SKNCE
MIGHT <ai:ne thoi hi.f.
"Gi'iicriil "Bell." he said, "has offered
to put a guard about my house in El
Paso, ami I have full confidence in the
American authorities, but since I was
routed out of bod and insulted in my
own house not long ago by a squad of
police at 1 o'clock in the morning, I.
have feared that my presence in Eli
Paso might start trouble. Every effort |
of mine is bent on removing causes of.
friction at this point, with a view to
easing negotiations between the first
chief and the White House."
Reports from the field indicate that
small columns of Carranza soldiers are;
appearing to the south of General
Pershing's line, occupying communities!
evacuated by the Americans. However,
in Mexican circles it is explained that!
some of these troops are. recruiting
detachments. American reports indi
cate that at no point are they suffi
ciently close to Pershing's lines to rouse
alarm. '
XO EFFECT OV MOVEMENT
OF NATION A I, <U'AUTISM EN
SAN' ANTONIO. TEX.. June 28.?Gen
eral Fnnston received to-night a report
from Brigadier-General Bell, at El
(Continued on Second Page.) I
THROUGH SLEF.PKH TO ASITKV1M E
l.euves Htelimoml li ti p m. dally; arrive*
Ashevllle 2;40 1'. Al. SOUTHERN RAIL
WAY.-?Adv. i
i Officially Announced
in Mexican Capital
ISpptinl to The Tlinesi-Dli|int<<|i,]
MKXICO CITV, June IfS.?It in of
ficially Muted here to-nli;lit that the
I lilted Mute* Moltllern taken pris
oner* h.v Gcnernl Trpvlno'n forces
.'it < iirrly.nl will |?e, relented.
;C1JT SID FOR DEPENBEBTS"
: FB0IW W SIFT BILL
House and Senate Conferees Reach
Agreement on War Depart
ment Resolution.
QITC|\ ACTION" URGED BY BAKER
Relief Proposal Sacrificed Only After
Secretary of War Insists That
Passage Is Imperative?To Be In-'
troduceel as Separate Measure.
VASHIXOTOy. June 2S.?An agree- |
ment under which the army draft reso-!
lution will be put through without any!
provision for r>lt.?f of rl?pi>nd(nt fam
ilies .(f national gtiarrtsni^n drafted into
the Federal service was reported late!
to-day. A conference report eliminat
Inpr entirely the relief proposal on
which the conferees had split was ap-?
proved by the House without opposi-j
tion Just before adjournment, and isi
expected to he accepted by the Senate I
to-morrow.
In submitting the conference report'
to the House. Chairman Hay, of the
?Military Committee, said the House,
conferees had consented to sacrifice
their $1,000,000 relief proposal only
after Secretary Baker had telephoned
to the Capitol that immediate passage
of the resolution in some form was im
perative. Mr. Hay announced lie would
Introduce tHo appropriation section to
morrow as a separate bill, and Speaker
Clark said he would entertain a motion I
on Monday for passage, of the measure'
under a suspension of rules.
As finally agreed to. the resolution Is!
in virtually the same form as drafted'
at the War Department. It authorizes 1
the President to use as Federal soldiers!
all members of the N'ational On.ard will
ing take the required oath for Fed- '
eral service anil permits consolidation
of scattered and incomplete guard units.
SPANISH STEAMER HALTED
Compelled to tilve Pnrtlculiirx ot Ships '
In Cette llnrltor hy Austrian
Submarine.
MADRID. June 2S.?The owners of
the Spanish steamer Comerolo, which
recently arrived at Alicante from
<vtte. reported to the Foreign Otlice
to-day that the steamer had been
stopped at sea by a submarine flying
th>* Austrian colors.
The captain of the Comcrcio was
compelled to give full particulars of all I
the ships which were in the harbor at
Cette at the time he sailed.
WOMAN GETS FIVE YEARS
Mrs. Kntherine Hnrrlson. Ilride of
Nepheiv of Senator Culberson,
Convicted of .Murder.
FORT WORTH. TF..V, June 2S.?Mrs.
Katharine V. Harrison, bride of Charles!
Harrison, a nephew of United States'
Senator Charles Culberson, was con-'
victed of murder here to-day bv a!
Jury after a trial of a week, and sen-'
tenced to flve years' imprisonment. I
She was charged with the killing of r
\\. A. Warren, a hotel proprietor. Mrs
Harrison admitted the slaying, but said,
Warren had attacked her when she
was a mero child. She married Harri-!
son two days after the killing. i
RRDtTEll KARI1S ACC<?|'\t .HIV l
vln Southern Italhvur.
commencir.e Jul\ - to mini ?ni,,
return limit, July sf-Aclv. *
?Plioto by Fo9ter.
All-Important Question of
Attitude Toward U. S.
Expedition Unsettled.
PREPARATIONS FOR WAR
GO STEADILY FORWARD
Until Reply to Lansing's Note Is
Received, Administration's
Position Is Unchanged.
OFFICIALS GREATLY RELIEVED
Possibility of Latin-American Mcdi?
at ion in Crisis Again Widely
Discussed.
WASHINGTON', June 28.?An Immf
d'.ate break between the United States
and Mexico has been averted by com
pliance with the American demand for
release of the* twenty-three troops cap
tured in the tight at Carrizal.
Whether war has been prevented op
merely postponed no one here would
attempt to say to-night. OiTicJaJ in
formation as to the attitude of Gcn
oral C.vranza was lacking. Until his
response to Secretary Liansliig's note,
dispatched Sunday, making two per
emptory and distinct demands is re
ceived, there will be no decision on
whether President Wilson shall lay
the crisis before Congress.
News of the release of the prisoners,
received early to-night in press dis
patches, brought undisguised relief
among administration officials. It was
accepted as correct and assured that
Carranza. impressed with the urgency
of the situation, had ordered the cap
tured cavalrymen staged for the bor
der without waiting for his announce
ment of the action to reach Washing
ton.
A 1.1,-1 M PORTA NT QUESTION
Hli.MAl.VS UNSETTLED
While it generally is conceded that
this move lessens tension, no one con
veisant with the grave problem lo;.t
sight of the fact that the all-import
ant question of Carranza's attitude to
ward the American expedition across
the border to protect the territory and
citizens of the United States from
bandit outrages remains unsettled. If
the de facto government stands upon
the -orders to General Treviuo to at
tack l\ rsn tng's men when they move
otherwise than toward the border, the
situation actually is Just what it was
before, except that there, now is a pos
sibility of diplomatic negotiation that
did not exist while the Americana were
held prisoner tit Chihuahua.
The preparations of the United
States for war ,vill go steadily for
ward. There will be no interruption
of the rush of national guardsmen to
the border, and General Funston will
continue disposing of his forces as
though he expected an immediate at
tack.
RELIEVED TO UK STRIVING
TO I'REVE.NT BREAK
Carranza's compliance with one of
the demands is accepted by the raoro
optimistic officials here as an indica
tion that he is striving to prevent a
break Although should he again at
tempt to throw all blame for the Car
rizal tight upon the American otllc-ors
nnd insist Upon his riitht to forcibly
oppose any except northward move
ments of American troops, it is thought
possible that he will state his position
in such a way as to make further dis
cussion necessary. During any negotia
tions, however, the United States will
insist upon freedom or movement of. tho
troops in Mexico, and any attempt to
interfere with them will bo met by ruch
force as is necessary, Tho possibility
of Latin-American offers of mediation
in thn crisis again was widely dis
fussed. I^naclo < 'aldevon, minister from
I:olivia. will nutkc a second call upon
Secretary (/.tilling to-morrow to ascer
tain whether a tender of koou oflleeq
by iht {Swuth and Central Auioric*D
