i
WEATHER FORECAST. "
ay and to-morrow: variable
winds.
mperature yesterday, 83; lowest, 66.
eather, mull anil marine reports on prize I.'.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 303.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 1916.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
Copyright, 1916, fiy the Sun Printing anil Publishing Association.
''7,''. ' "'
IT SHINES FOB ALL
AUSTRIA TOLD
INSULT TO U.S.
IS DELIBERATE
WIm'H IViiiiiiids Apology
and Indemnity for Loss
of I'etrolite.
i
I
:
h:kks rrxisiiMKXT
OK 1' IMATnFFlTKK
'AH'M.roN, June 2? The
con-1 to
tnwrv between the Fulled Slates and !
. ..,,.itm,i..-irinM Government- over th- '
A4.- - . . -
i'.lUK upon me American steamer
J'ftrelne by an Austrian submarine In
t Mediterranean several months ago
I night to a sharp lsue by the
Sta t I'epurtment to-day In telegraphic
lr. . j to Ambassador 1'enfletd at
Vanr-i
"l,e r ' to the Ambassador, the con-Kii-
' whl.h h l directed to com
rrr.r r- to the Austto-Hungarinn Gov
r ' Titr haracterlzcs the attack upon
tl, i.r.l.'e and the coercing of the
rap ns "a deliberate Insult to the
fip .if He I'n.led States and an Invasion
c the rights of American citizens.''
Anbasjador Fenfleld Is Instructed to
tnjt.! that an apology be? made, that
the i immander of the submarine be
pim-hed and that reparation be made
f.-r iie mtunes sustained bv the navment I
it suitable Indemnity."
In s Instructions Secretary LAnsing
dl,..is a tinner attitude and makes
trio-t prremptory demands than were In
i rf' In any communication with the
Urn.ai c.overnmcnt when the submarine
ri'i. was most acute. The note con
tain the assertion that the Auslro
1 Hji sarian tJovirnment has an Incorrect
rtpnr- en the incident and formulates
-wit" e obtained from the captain and
rn if the l'etrollte Indicating the act)
- tie "f Bpcression anu mat ine mosi
: ijmeiital rules of seizure and search
un ng; observed.
Trt of lllr Xotr.
Vi text of the telegram to Ambassa
dor rentlcld follows:
t'WAHTMENT or State, Washlnifton,
Jur.e .1, 1916.
"Evidence obtained from the captain
tsi members of '.Tew nf th steamer
Ft'.roltte. and from examination made ot
Ui vessel under direction of the Navy
t)rartmcnt. convinces this Government
ir.it the Austro-UunRarlan Government
li obtained an Incorrect report of the
tUck on the steamer. With vartlcular
Mdtncc to the explanation made by the
Fcreicn Ofrlce the following Information,
briefly suited, lias been obtained from
morn tiaiements of the captain and
numbers of the crew:
"So shot was fired acrosji the bow of
i1 Reamer a a signal to stop. When
Hi first shot was fired the captain was
t.r.d?r the Impression that an explosion
fcJi taken place In the engine room.
.Vol unt.l the second shot was flreil did
tie aptaln and crew night the sub
mar' e, which was astern of the steamer,
sr.d Wierefore, they positively assert,
:ba- -ie ther the first nor the second shot
i Hred across the bow of the vessel.
"1 e steamer dH not.swlng around In
a c ue directed toward the submarine.
.ulesed In the report obtained by the
Aj r -Hungarian Government, but the
i,' at once stopped the engine and
: t ic vessel broadside to the sub
m f and at right angles to the course
o; ii ,. teel, in order to show Its neutrftl
h.j hrs. which was manifestly the
ft iy ,i hie and proper course to follow,
ti.d ' ceased to make any headway.
On steamer was painted lti name
o rs approximately six feet long
m i name of the hailing port and,
u i previously been made known
' ti Au.stro-Hungari.in Government,
n ' i amer carried two large rlags
"ir. distance above the water line,
t is positively stated by the oifl-
iil t rew were (lying before the first
f ' w s fired and were not hohited after
ie tl-st shot, aa stated by the sub
m.i ae i-iimmanvler.
Denies TrylnK tp Ham.
T i hubmarlno commander admits
that t steamer stopped her engines.
Th puin of the l'etrollte denies that
"h v --el was ever headed toward the
.hi.inre and the examination of the
ftm - made by an American naval
tont'ij tor corroborates this statement,
bi Jii'f. as he states, the shell which
twir. ffjc t on vessel, striking the deck
f u f n h surrounds the smokestack,
e fr fiom a point forty-five degrees
on t . nirbo.ird bow. This was one of
'hf i' shots fired and Indicates that
P .i not headed toward the sub
mi " vtn up to the time when the
jm a- no ceased firing.
"Trp jptain states that the submarine
rt i h to be manoeuvring so as to
d 'i ' ucr ehots from ahead of tUo
k'c, 1(.r
ti submarine fired approximately
tC. oots. The majority of the shots
n- fired after the ship had stopped
r.ri ad swung broadside and while, as
ven ih- commander of submarlns ad
m't , t ,e steamer was flying the Ameri
can fl-c The captain of the steamer
li",e t it he advised the commander of
he i,r iarlne that the damage to the
: cr wilH Inslgnlflcent. He states
' advised him that the steamer
r.a! - , damaged, hut that he had not
''"i id an opportunity to ascertain
the .ti .,t of the damage, The seaman
r u. , truck by a fragment of ahell
utrt severe llesh wounds.
sii liniarliie nt In Hanger.
ship had intended to ram the
she would not have stopped
it
r-f
s, and thin must nave neen
to the submarine commander,
o nuthoritlch heii! agree that there
1 .Lit been tin danger of the ship
Lot c ti, submarine until It was
I"' tralght for the submarine and
Vj di r power, and even then the
Jl" r ,,, rniild have so miuiouvied as
t ,iv , eoii sion. The l'etrollte was i
." away fiom the submarine,
Tv'' iikh and funnel of the l'etrollte
" the stern, .mil from the general
!' .i.itiiu of the ship no experienced
tl" officer could have believed that It
pp'irtunlly of sufficient speed to
u ' even if t hail been steaming dl
" .ward the submarine. The con
" f the siibmariue commander
" w. i.i, k of Judgment, self-control or
" nient amounting to utter dlsr;e.
( i ie rights of a iieuti.il
V inl ng to the sworn statements
' oiptuln of the steamer and it
who aciumpanled him to ths
"re, the comniiindcr of the latter
I ili-u he mistook the steamer for a
truln-r This statement Is at vsrlanca
"'Hi Hie statement In th Austro-Hun-
garlati Government's note that tlie cap.
Inln of the submarine asserted n false
matiivuvrc on the part of the steamer .
prompted the submarine to continue to
lire.
"The captain of the steamer swear"
that he Informed the commander nf the
submarine that he had only sulllclcht
provisions to reach the wrt of Alglcrx ,
."ill inai lie would deliver provisions only
under compulsion. He states positively
In his nflldavlt ntid In conversation with
oltlclitls uf Hie llctiartmont Ihnt lin .11,1
not Rive provisions readily nor did he)
ii was me auty or one seaman to
help another and that he refused iuv-
ment because he felt that he was being
compelled to deliver food In violation of
law. The statement of the captain of'MIDr.
the l'etrollte Is entirely at variance with ,
the report of the submarine commander. 1
Tito correctness of the captain's
opinion that the wounded seaman was
held ns a hostage to Kuarantee the de
livery of food seems clear. Obviously
the commander of the submarine had no
right to order the seaman to remain on
board. The fact that this order was
Klven showed that the commander In
sisted that food was to be delivered to
i him ; otherwise the seaman would natu
' rally have accompanied the captain back
his vessel. The outrageous conduct
f the submarine commander und all the
circumstances of the attack on the IVtro-
lite warranted the oaiitaln In regarding 1
himself as belnn compelled In order to I
uvold further violence to deliver food to
' I
the commander of the submarine.
Drniitiida for Hrpsrntlon.
In the absence of other and more sat
isfactory explanation of the attack on
the steamer than that contained In the
note addressed to you by the Foreign
Office the Government of the I'nlted
States Is compelled to rcK.ird the conduct ,
of the commander of the submarine In
alt.icUne Ih l'etrollte arid in coerclns I
tn captain n a iienoeraie insuu io me
nag or me (. illicit Mates anu an invasion ,
of the rights of American cltlrens for
w hlch this i lovernment requests that an
apV.oRy be made: that the commander
of the submarine he punished, and that
reparation be made for the Injuries sus
tained by the payment of a suitable in
demnity. "Please communicate to Foreign Office
the sense of the foresolnit,
"You may add that this Government
oeneves inai me Ausiro-iiungarian oov
ernment will promptly comply with these
requests In view of their manifest Just
ness and the high sense of honor of that
Government which would not. It Is he-i
plcved, permit an Indignity to be offered,
io me nag or a irienuiy l ower or wrongs
to Its nationals by an Austro-Hungarian
naval officer without making Immediate
land ample amend".
I.ansinu '
JESUIT-SOCIALIST
PEACE PLAN RUMORED
Prince von Bnolow to Confer
With "Blnck Pope,"
Home Hears.
Special Cablt DeifatcK (oTm Scv.
Home, via London, June 28. Prince
Bernhard von Huelow, the former Im
perial German Chancellor, whoso visit io
America was abandoned. It Is reported
here, because of I'resldent Wilson's re
fusal to collaborate with him on behalf
of peace. Is expected to go soon to
Switzerland from Berlin. There he will
meet, It Is said, Father Vladimir Lcdo
(howskl. the "Black Pope," head of the
Order of Jesuits, who was expelled from
Italy In May, 1915. because of alleged
political propaganda.
Father Ledochowskl, though n Russian
Pole, Is known to sympathize with Ger
many. His Influence toward peace Is
believed to be considerable In neutral
countries as well as In Italy, where h-i
organized a peace campaign.
Prince von Buelow's plan, It Is said,
consists of uniting the Italian Jesuits'
efforts in behalf of peace wjth those of
the official Socialists, who are casting
aside their antl-clerlcaltsm and pralslmc
the Pope's efforts for peace. The Social
ists have even advocated the Pope's par
ticipation In the prospective peace con
gress, considering It necessary, owing to
th. purifying Idealism the pontiff's pres
ence would Inject Into the conferences.
Austria and Germany are reported to
be organizing all elements and Influenced,
lest when they sue for peace the Allien
Insist upon continuing the war.
Prince Camporeale, Prince von Bu
low'a brother-in-law, alluding to peace,
said to-day:
"Even admitting that Autria and Ger
many provoked the war. their responsi
bility will be less than that of the Allies
if the latter Insist upon prolonging It.
All pacifists here are repeating the
same refrain, which Is said to be Inspired
by Prince von Buclow.
NO JAPANESE FLEET ON COAST.
Admiral Wlnsloxr Makes Search
and Then Denies lleporta.
Washington, June 25. Admiral Wins
low, commander In chief of the Pacific;
fleet, advised the Navy Department to
day that after a personal Inspection of
thi entire west coast line of Mexico nnd
of Lower Callforna he was in position to
deny reports that a Japanese fltet was
hovering In that vicinity.
This Is about the third or fourth tima
that the Navy Department has had occa
sion to deny sensational reports that
the Japanese navy was active off the
west coast of Mexico seeking to establish
a naval base.
TTEYTCANS CONFISCATE PLANT.
Jananeae Put In Charer and
Are
Xovr Maklnar Monitions.
San Antonio, Tex., June 28. Ameri
cans arriving at Laredo to-day from
Monterey report that the plant of the
Monterey Steel Works was confiscated
on Monday by the Mexican Government.
A force of Japanese was put In charge
and they are now manufacturing arms
and other supplies for the army there.
It Is also stated that on Monday morn
imr a sneclal train carrying nine coach-
0ads of Japanese, who had arrived
i .here a few days before, left for Chi
huahua to Join the Mexican soldiers In
that portion of Mexico. These Japanese
evidently were recent arrivals, ns they
MA not understand the Spanish language.
They were In command of six Japanese
Officers ana inree Mexican petty oinr.
VESUVIUS AGAIN ACTIVE.
('loads nf Iroakr Arise From tt
Crntora "Iroralioll llnsy,
tiomb. June 28. Mount Vesuvius Is
again active, according to despatches
from Naples. Heavy clouds of smoks
have been seen rising from several new
CrThI'l'inhshltants of towns around the
base of the mountain are alarmed t ths
nctivltv and. fearing an eruption, are
fleeing from their homes.
Large streams of lava are flowing
from the crater ol Htrornboll also, des
patches say.
nKRATiRAR sMINI! WATICII.
lor. th ess ol six glass topper.4 kstll.
Aiv.
BRITISH ATTACKS
INCREASE IN FURY!
(ti'i'iiinii Trenches Shattered
J.nids Continue More
Prisoners Taken.
KHOXT 1XV()LVKI'
Teuton Attacks In Champagne i
Fnil After Winning a
Foothold.
Special rbte netpalfh to Tut St v
Lo.vpo.v, June 2S. The series of raids
by Hrltlsh patrol detachments continues
against the Herman front In Flanders
and northern France, ot one point, near
,,,,,, , u , ,. ' ... ,
n"Mh "f "''. the Hrltlsh
headquarters report', that the patrol
found the (lermau trenches badlv bat-'
leied by the file ,.f the ltritlh artillery
It Is presumed that one of the ct'.lef ob
jects of thce raid" Is to determine the
effect of the bombaidment. which, ac-;
cordlni; to despatches from tin- corrr.
slnmilents on this front, is still koUir on.
In one of the raids described In the
Hrltlsh olliclal statement, made bv the.
mKiu.um i.iKni inianiry near ine roao
""T "immw ami na-e. ine
Hrltlsh detachment took fort -six nrl-
oners, captured two machine kuiis and Mr UK-hes acc uni. tilled Col. Itoce
destroyed two Herman mine shaft, with Vt.t (ri), ,llo eighth llcor down to the
.1 total loss f two men wounded. ,lr.,t ,oor corrlJor ad een follow.d
nit- itrriiiau nar i.mce announces
that these raidliiK operations undertaken
by the Hrltlsh extended from I.a Basse,-
Canal to the district south of the Somme
and were made In conjunction with an
Intense artillery file and mine explosions
and under cover of smoke and ga
clouds. According to the German report,!
ail the nttacks were repulsed easily.
Ilomhnrdiiirnt ("initllitirs.
Correspondents at the front say that
the British bombardment Is continuing
over a broad front, the guns pouring a
steady stream of shells Into the Germin
(osltlons. The region of the Somme ami
the Mmy ltldge were two points at
which the bombardment attained unusual
violence. The weather was found to be
unfavorable for -uas attacks lat night,
the correspondents say, and the British
discontinued this form of attack after
releasing gas at several points.
The British statement follows
Raiding patrols entered the enemy's
trenches at several points, tumblng the
enemy and Inflicting casualties. Near
Angres a raiding party found the
ellrlli's trrnlle b.tdl.v d.till,,,., by
shell lire and the enemy apparently
had suffered from the gas which we
successfully discharged from our
trenches.
A particularly successful raid was
carried out by the Highland Light In
fantry near the Vermelles-Ui Bnssee
road when forty-six prisoners and two
machine guns were captured and two
enemy mine shafts were destroyed
with the loss of only two men wounded.
To-day the enemy exploded a small
mine near Neuve Ohappelle and an
other near Hulluch. but. excepting
slight damage to one of our saps,
achieved no result. Wo successfully
exploded two mines south of the
Hethune-La Hassee Canal,
Bad weather yesterday prevented
much flying.
ATTACK IN CHAMPAGNE.
Germans Win Some Gronndl Driven
Ont In Counter Attnrk.
Sptcial Cable Vetpatrh mTiii St
Paris, June IK. An offensive which so
far has not reached anv large propor
tions was Instituted by the German" last
night In the Champagne region and was
..a .anv iiih n., inf.ntrv
continued to-da.v with an Infantry at-1
tack which succeeded In gaining tempo-
rnry possession of some French ad-'
j ....
,ui
The attack In this district, which Is In
the region of the French offensive of
laBt fall, w.ir begun on the St. Hilalre
de Grand-.St. Souplet road, a little west
of the salient with Tahure in Its nvex. i
This beginning was made by a recon-
noltring rarty of considerable size, which
Lw.ih dispersed by the French barrage
fire berorc 11 nail reacneu me i rtniii
lines.
To-dny the German nrtlllery in this
region Increased Its bombardment, nnd
following the cannonade Infantry wn
sent forward, gaining for the moment
a foothold In advanced posts. The Ger
mans were unable to hold this advant
age In face of the French counter at
tacks.
lAirther nroeres." was made by tho
French to-day In their operations north
of Hill 321, south or tne Tinaumoni
farm, nnd on the borders or tne ininu
mont field work, At 3 o'clock this
morning the Germans made two counter
nttacks on this, the east bank of the
Meuse, one on the French positions
imrthenst of Hill 321 nnd the other be
tween Flcury and the Hols de aux
Chapltre. Both atacks broke down.
There was heavy fighting last night In
the Thlavimont sector.
Ilnmbardmrnt on West Hank.
The French lines at Avocourt and
Chattancourt, on the west bank of the
Meuse, were under heavy bombardment
last night nnd all day to-day. Oennan
forces gathered for an itttnck on Hill
304 to-day were prevented from leaving
their trenches. Hand grenade actions
look place last night at Hill 304 nnd
Le Mort Homme.
Tho communique Isued by the War
Off lea to-night follows:
In Champagne, after a lively artil
lery preparation, tho Germans suc
ceeded In penetrating somo of our ad
vanced posts In the direction of the
Tahura salient. They were driven out
a little later by our counter attacks.
On tho left bank of tho Meuse tho
bombardment rontlnues with shells of
large calibre In the sectors of Avo
court and Chattancourt. Preparations
for an attack reported 1n the German
trenches east of Hill 304 were frus
trated by our urtlllery lire,
On ths right bank wo made somo
progress In the course of the day In
grenade fighting north of Hill 321 ar.d
on the borders of the Thlaumont work.
Nnrprls Attack Falls.
AttemptH mnde by the Germans last
lllght to surprise wiu rrencil lilies souui
of Lasslgny lanuii.
The iifternoon communique follows:
In the nglon aouth of Lasslgny the
Germans endeavored last night to de
liver several surprise nttneks upon
minor French posts. All their efforts
resulted In failure.
'In Champagne a strong reconnol-
Continued a amlh t9-
ROOSEVELT TO TAKE
STUMP FOR HUGHES
After Love Feast Lusting'
Nearly Three Honrs They 1
Announce Full Accord.
HOTII MUX A It K RADIANT
ro,,,"l,I .vs He Heartily Ap-
proves Nominee's Stand
on Leading lsiir:.
In a loc fiat In whlcli only the two
participated at the Hotel Astor lat.
nlg-ht Charles F. Hughes, Itepubll in
rtesldentl.il nominee, and Col. Thcojoie
ItooM-velt ,i.--iired each other Hint tbev
are at one on all the I sues of the present
i ramiMlmi. and dd. ltoosevelt pledged
himself to make tlinc or four speevhe
fo: the foim.-r Jutlce.
I'ollowiiiK the meeting the two sat
out their dlniivi In Mr. Hughes's nii.ut-
meiit for two houis and thiee-iiiartci-Mi
Ituuhes dictateil a statement to the
newspaper men in which he said "We are
ill complete accord " The candidate was
in excellent humo'. as w. evidenced by
n. ftlli (ia( ,H tu,,Ke eii-lom of
m.n Mars standint: b tjlkmc
l..'.. ft It fur mttiltf if tnn
it
automobile waltlnr In Kortytlfth street.
Just before enterinc his car the Colonel
Kiasped the candidate's hand and ex
claimed :
"Good-by nnd all to.lble good luck
Then as the machine drove away Col.
Itmievelt turned aruuml and waving a
Panama, which on thl tccalon re
' placed the familiar black sombrero.
fh.'UIeil 'Good lurk, good luck. BIkmI
luck '
Mntenient of VI r. Iliiulirs.
, Isn't the Colonel looking tine" said
Mr Hughes lie walked back to the
elevator l'pMalr In hl headquarters
a few minutes later he dictated thii
"tatemelit :
"I was very much pleased with Co:
' Kooi-evelrs ljtter nf indorsi mint and
, h has cxpicfej himself in a very
' kindly way with respect to my tele
i gram to the Progressive committee I
wanted to talk with Col. Itoo-evelt fully
vlth regard to the Imui of the cam
paign nnd nslied him to dine with me
iso that we might have that opportunity.
He dined with me to-night and we had
a very delightful interview
! "We talked very fully over all mat-
lees iin.l are In mtntilete urrnr.l The
evening has been a very pleasant one." O'Hyan that the regiment had to leave
At the Hotel l.anijdon, where he Its armory without a midday meal and '
stopped before '"'sthmng the long drive , , Hobokeu over the
KmS VhSl'""''WnK - ..lck lunch commlssao- ,
,i.i u.,.i h. L.r..tlv ie....,i He hat the regiment waited for was
. declared that he ogieed niol heartily
' with the attitude taken by Mr Hughe"!
I tow.it d the great questions at l.ue and
had assured : Hughes that he would
' support him with Hie utmost he.irtlnes.
Col. ltoosevelt added that the two had
j d'sciissed t' e Issues of the campaign
' which, lie asserted was another way
j of saying that they had conven-ed le
' gardlng the vital que."llon affecting na-
tloml Interests and n.itlon ii honor
I Tlie Colonel said Mr Hughes had
stated that he much deled l.ls aid In
the i.tmptiign and the Colonel had re
tionded that he certainly would Mve his
. help It was u cried that the three or
foil i speeches to he made by Co! Boo",
velt s iould be delivind In the autumn.
... ...
Wnn l)ellKhlfll, Informal.
Mr. Hughes had let It he known that
; he delred the meeting to be entirely In-
I formal and the hot wore a sack coat,
t))p Colonc, ,.am ,n ,.t;,ttllv
vVUKam U Willcox th.. new ilialrioau
of the Kepubllcan National Comm'ttee.
Iweit to the I.angdon nnd escorted the
. .,,., ......
IIUIOUO e 3 Mirji rmii (in,,
tho prodigal to tho Astor. Though the
pair entered thu latter hotel by the
Forty-tlftli street entrance Col. Boose
velt was recognized by several persons
and was greeted by handclapplug.
Let us go right upstairs. Colonel. '
( r Mp WlIcox, leading the
,rt
. ,' i ii,. ,ii.t.' Dinvninr
'..xvalt Just n minute," the Colom I
c.j,i,.d hack, us he recognlzcl it group ot
' lenorter.". "Here are some of the mem-
,,,.,, of m. fa!jnf t, I muet shake hand"
vvlth them first."
Itnbert H. Fuller accompanied the two
to thu door of Mr Hughes's room. Sol",
but he and Mr, Willcox retlji'il promptly
when the I'resuieniiai nominee appea'.,!.
"Why. Col, ltoosevelt ! exclaimed Mr.
i Hughes, grasping his visitor's hand
How are you, Gov. Hughes?' the
Colonel responded warmly
Then tlm fotmer President and the
present candidate seated themselves at a
table on iv men was a nuge bouquet or
American Beauties, the only decoration
which had beep provided for the occa
(don. A waiter who on past occasions
had proved his ability to hear or to talk
took charge nnd tho hlstroy making con
ference began.
The dinner Itself was dry, as the
menu shows:
California Melon
Iluence of Tomato (enldi en taue
White Itnck Water
Olives Celery lUillnhen jsltd Nuts
Ilronk Trout Saute, Dorlit
Potnioe" I'arislenn
. Hqusb Chicken, rot I
Cnld Aipsriigus. French Drmltif
lilacs Kmnia IMni'ji
Petlts Fouri
Corona Coronas
Cafe Nolr
Nnu Dellcloua
.o After Dinner smoke,
When It was all over the boxes
of
Corona Coronas and Noyo Delicious had
been untochued, for the Colonel never
smokes and Mr. Hughes has not touchej
a cigar for nearly two years.
Only once were the distinguished con
ferees disturbed. This was when a bul
letin was sent In the room to Inform
them of tho report that Carranza had
ordered the release of tho American sol
dlprs In Mexico, Whntever may have
been said behind the closed doors neither
man would comment on the despatch for
publication.
Both were smiling when they left the,
apartment nt 10:10. and accompanied by
Public ciervlco Commissioner Travis !.
Whitney, who had been waiting In tho
corridor for fifteen minutes, descendej
to the street floor
"Fine!" exclaimed the Colonel, Just
before grasping Mr. Hughes's hand to
wish him good luck
There will be three distinguished He
niihllcans on Ixmg Island this evening.
one rn-Freslrtrnt, ltoosevelt, Is nt Oyrter
Bav. Another, Tart, is at Garden city.
And Hughes, who may bo tho next Presl
dent, returns to Brtdgehampton this
afternoon.
Republican National Chairman Will
cox opened a temporary office at the
reufhiMfd on TArnt Ftig0.
PRISONERS FREE, SAYS CONSUL;
MEDICAL UNITS
OFF; TWELFTH
i BOARDS TRAIN
ff
Part
of First Artillery
Starts From Yonkers
Mules Delay Infantry.
('()( I'OOSKVKIr SFKS
' ' "
TUOOPS MAIICII AWAY
Morc New York Troops
on Way to the Border
Last night the in tual or expect d
movements of New- York troops we
a follows
The Twelfth It'glment In the Ho
boken yards of the Iickawanm was
entrained, but did not expect to get
under way until some time thl morn
ing. Batteries I). K anil P, forming the
second battalion of the Plrt Field
Artillery. f.Jrt men and J.'.O nnlmal-.
were in motion, having started late
at night.
Prom Peeksklll two medical units
tint had been at Camp Whitman, the
First Field Hospital and the Third
Ambulance Corp.-. were under way
The "terrible Twelfth" got as far as
Iff.boken last night on It" dah to
I'lownsvllle There In the Utckaw-ann.it
MMion the New York guardsmen were
catnapping at midnight, waiting for
ti'elr three special trains to start
Trains were ready at .1 o'clock in the
1 nfternoon. The men. alighting from a
ferrboat at C -fiS o'clock, were ready as
; soon as they finished devouring sand
I wiches, rolls, soup, coffee and cocoa '
Ktr.drd about by the women of the Bed '
vioss. nie inner, iniomien ny i.i'n.
mules. Seventv-nlne of these essential
Ihilpmeets. along with sixty hoises for
the Twelfth, reached the Sew ork
Central yards at Sixtieth street and the
H.ldaon Hlver In Manhattan so late that
they could not be ferried over to
Hoboken ahead of the regiment, as had
been planned. So the quartermaster's
outfit, after seeing that supplies were
j.acked on the trains, devoted their eve
ning to the mules and horses and
btbiided the animals by lamplight
Hope to Get Tourist Mrrprrs.
The regiment expected to get away
early this morning It Is tiavelllng
inure comfortably than was the Seventh
vi hen It left Jersey inty on Tuesday.
'The men are starting In day coaches,
, ,u, t)(1 pr0(,piH., , ,?hlft,ns ,
tourist sleeping curs at Buffalo or Chi-
tago. The officers have two Pullmans.
nnd each train has a cook stove set up
,,,, a baggage car so that ever) body will
( g, t hot rations regularlv
It was a weary but determined regl-
ment that marched through Manhattan
" ., ., ,v, f
ifpirruiL.. miiii."'ii muni ,- .. '
Col, ltoosevelt, who, unobserved by any
of tile marcher" except perhaps, hi"
cousin, dipt. George K. ltoosevelt of
Company A, stood In a window nf hi"
anartment on the sixth tl.ior of the
Hotel Lnngdon at Fifts -seventh street
.h.I IrtnL-A.I ,1rtU-n lltinil lllrt lltl.lu Mil tllSt'
........a tmn e-ifiv.seventli street into
Fifth avenue and hended downtown for
Twenty-third street and the ferry,
I Few of the guardsmen had known a
' full night's sleep In a week i Mi Tues-
( day night they got no "leep at all, for
so feverish was the rnh to get ready
for departure that the men were pi-kllig
equipment and supplies from dusk to
tiawn. excepi lor inn nnnnri i- moohi
o'clock vesterdnv morning when they
stopped to be niU'tered into the service
of the I'nlted States, l'p to the moment
they left the armory at Sixty-third street
and Columbus avenue at t o'clock
nnnv nf them were still tolling In the
stilling heat of the armory So when
r.il Wndsworth flnall.v ordered the
bugles to sound the last pssembly In the
armory the vision of even getting
chance to Jicknlfe nneeelf l-to the seat
of a day coach was auuiinp
Many t" IHd FnreMi-ll.
TotmciV) imoke and dust motes weie
dancing In sun rays slanting from the
skylight of the drill hall when the 1,036
nrivntes and forty-nine officers of the
Twelfth headed out of the armory to
ward Mexico. Streets or tne neignoor
hood were Impassable, save where
mounted nollcemen rode ahead and cleft
a path. The men of the Twelfth are
mostly mechanics and other hard work
ers. Their relatives anu irienus in
rinrtlnir many babies were all around
the armory. The police tried to keep tho
.Millers and their families separateii, but
through Sixty-third street und down to
Columbus Circle tne mass movea as one.
"Those people," said Col. Wadsworth,"
are going to get a chnnce to say good-by
to tho boys, Halt !
So the regiment halted while the kiss
ing went right on. After each ten blocks
or so there was another stop, tho men
grounding their rltte.", hitching their
packs to an easier position nnd wiping
their sweaty faces Of course the Fa
mous Players Film Company hated to
have the head of tho column stop right
In front of Its Btudli In West Fifty-seventh
street, so that Paudne Frederick
hsd to stand out In front In her red
automobile and grind a movie camera
which wan trained on a thousand des
perate guardsmen, while Marguerite
Clarke had to wave from a window an
American Hag that was almost, as tiny
us herself. But there the Twelfth did
slop, nnd the Famous Players had to
make the best of It,
Fifth avenue, Just In low Col. Hoo..
veil's private reviewing stand, was
crowded, but not particularly demon
stratlve. It seemed to have got used to
ih sight of New York's mllltla mnrch
ine to trains. In front of Ht, Patrick's
Continued on Third Pmf.
WASHINGTON
GEN. BELL IS TOLD MEXICO
WILL FREE PRISONERS TO-DA V
Carranza Consul at El Paso Tells Him Americans Cap
tured at Carrizal Will Be Delivered at Border
With Arms and Horses.
Kt. I'aso, June IS -The Amerb an
prisoners taken by the Catranzlstas In
the battle of Cairliat will be released.
Andres (larcla. Mexican Consul at VA
l'.in. Informed (Sen. Heorse Hell, com
mandlnc the forces at Kl 1'asii to thin
effi-et thU nflerniHin. They nre to be
iniivereii at ine norurr lo-mornm mini
with
all aim and equipment captured with
them Thl l expected to prevent a tidties between the two countlles and'
i.retich of relation between the t'Voibat It might lead to albltnitlon of the
government". , other iu sttons at Issue. Theie wa"
The decision to teleai-e the American .hagrln lather than satisfaction on the,
prisoner. was unexpected. The attitude border over the mil, nine as bordir
of the Carranza oillter" had been defiant Ameriuw.N generally believe that wnr'
and Americans did not expect the Car-i with Mexico mut mine sooner or latt
rfijizi Government to accede to the re- and they think the sooner It 1" tunugio
quest Therefore, a meeting between the .
American General and the Mexican Con- .
sul late this afternoon .came a n sur-j
prise.
Gen. Bell and Mr. Garcia at first de-I
dined to make a statement, but later '
they continued the fact that the release;
had been ordered njid that the men would
be brought to Kl Paso to be turned over.
"My Government, to show It" good
faith and to convince the American Gov
eminent that it wants to be fair. ' said
Mr. Garcia, "has decldtd to send the
prisoners to the border that they may .
be turned over to Gen. Bell. Utir Gov
ernment doe not believe that the Amer-
lean Government when it
Investigates I
fully, will approve the
action of the
American force which engaged the Car
ranra tro.-ips In action at Carrizal lat
Frlda. For that reason, we see no
fcood reason for holding the prisoners,
tnose nun of the American command
OUTRAGES CHARGED
TO U. S. SOLDIERS
Aniliiisador Arrodoinln Snysj
I'prshinsr's Mm AmMtl
300 M ox it'll li s.
WaMiiKflTON, June 2 -On top of tho
two communications which he rent to the
State Department last night demanding
the release of Mexican civilian" arrested
on the American side of the bonier and
protesting against the embargo being
Informally Imposed on foodstuff" and
other kind" nf shipment" Into Mexico
Lllseo Arredondo, Mexican Ambassador
designate, to-day sent a new note to
Sivretiuy Iirlng.
The new communication charges that
American troop" In Mexico have
been committing outrage" on Mexican
civilian" and demand" punishment for
those responsible.
Secretary Ijir.slng made It clear this
nfternoon that he Is regarding these
various communteatioi k from the Mexi
can embassy as "routine matters" to be
handled by subordinate olllcials of the
Department At a late hour to-ilav he
had not personally seen any of them
To-day's note was addressed to the
American Government on Instruction"
from the Mexican Foreign Olllce and
read .is follow
Please present tho following fail
to the State Di'partninet Part of
the punitive expedition moving north
esterdny arreted .ion resilient" of I.a
Cruz, State of Chlhuahui, subjecting
them to undue maltreatment beforg
they wero released
A column of the same force, 3,000
strong, leaving San Geronlmo for
Valle, State of chihuahua, I" com
mitting all kind" of outrages, those
extinguishing themselves by their ex
cesses helm; tho Aparhe, constitut
ing n part of the nhove forces
Bequest the State Departim nt to
give Instructions that Urn men guilt v
be punished and that ait. on tin taken
to prevent a lecurrence. of such acts
Neither the Stat" nor the Wnr De
partment had any information t oncom
ing the nlleged acts of the troops, and
the 'allegations were generally dis
credited. Secretary of War Hiker de
clared this nfternoon that at the time
the troops were sent Into Mexico they
were given specific and Incisive direc
tions to conduct themselves In a manner
calculated to Inspire the confidence and
good will of the peaceful Mexican" wlih
whom they canm In contact.
"And." said Secretary Bakei. "ihe re
ports all show that they have so enn
ducted themselvis About three weeks
ago there was a rumor to the effect that
three or four Mexicans had been badly
treated by some of our men This
matter was called to the attention of
Gen. Pershing, who ordered an Investl
gatlon. This Investigation showed the
report" to be entirely without founda
Hon," '
The Mexican llrnbassv susgestd the
possibility thnt the .100 reported ar
rested nt La Cruz had been confused In
press reports irom III Paso last night
with Carranzlstas reported to have been
arrested by sqiMdrnns of the I'.leventh
Cavalry nnd taken Into I'olnnla Dublan.
The War Department, however, has no
confirmation for tho latter report
CHINESE FORM COMPANY.
Offer Services to Tucson Mainr to
I'lght Mexican Itnlders.
Tucson, Ariz., Juno 2i - 'I in town
has a feeling of securltj now from Mex
lean raiders. Tim reason for this U that
thirty Chinese citizen here have formed
a company or noum guaru
Th little bund h.is srtnel end
equipped Itself and to-da). after set
eral weeks of (mining with American
military tactics, they offered their ser
vires to the Mayor.
They promised to obey his orders and
told him tnat iuu more oi ineir country
ten would. Join ths company soon.
LOOKS FOR PEACE
made prisoners by u". We will return
the prisoners .with their arms, horses and
"lUlpment to lift" American border. They
will be etatted from Chihuahua to-nlsht
and should arrive here som time Thurs
day." In effect, it was liellexed on the bordir
to-nlKht that this aitlon on the part of
mo l arranza Government would pre
tent an immediate declaration of hos-
about the bettei.
Gen. Bell dei lined to d!CUs" hi- ion- .
feieme with Mr. Gaiila and ttfeired In
Interviewers to Gen Funtoii, hi" chief I
at Sin Antonio.
Gen. Gonzales. . oniiuaiider of the
forces In Jtiarer, expressed great satis
lui (Inn to-night over the Carranza Gov-
rt nient " 1 1 .-. i -1. i i I.) ieleae the Ainer
Ic.n iirl-ontis, and he and Conul
larcla both expressed the opinion that
the entUal situation Is pat for the time
Idtig and that It will not be revived units-,
the I'nlted State- should fori e It
1 1., expressed the belief that the
American prisoners would arrive at the
bonli r to-morrow morning
The nt ws that the prisoners had been
ordered released relieved the tension on
the border noticeably, nnd thcie was not
fie very strict order among the American
ti.icc to-night that hi" prevailed for a
wtfk past
PLANS FOR CAMPAIGN
ALREADY WORKED OUT
W nr ('ullt'ire Outline .Met hods
Ii.v
Which Mexico Would
He I'm-ifieil.
WxjitiMjTtiN, June 2 -Convinced
that ah hostiae action which President
Wilson might have to undertake with
lectin! to Mexico would luad ultimately
to a general campaign fur the pacifica
tion of that rotiutty the army wnr col
lege, it was learned to-day, has pie.
pared a detailed plan of action to that
end
ll-t. mating that nt least 1SO.00O men
would be lequlred the plan Is under
stood to call for throwing Into Mexico
tlifce separata columns simultaneous!),
made up principally of Infantry.
mounted Infantry, cavalry and light field
artillery.
Preceded in the cavalry the infantry
of each column would proctcd to ,i
reasonable distance south of the bor-
r fiom which point the uivalry and
mounted Infantry would be fanned out
to clear the counti) of Mexicans This
accomplished, the liifantr), folio rd by
th National Guard, would proceed fur
ther south, establishing second tempo
rary bases from which the cavalry and
mounted Infantry, again fanned out In
the same fashion, would continue to
drive the Mexicans back toward Mex-
tltv T.ne National Guanl and the
volunteer forces to be called out In such
in undertaking would le kept alwas
hind the regulars, guarding the line
f communication nnd ovviipjltm Hie
tow ns
The puiisise of such plan Is to keep
the country luck ot the advance guards
alw.i.vs fiee from mined Mexicans, It
Is further jdanned. when the campaign
has progressed sulllclenlly far, to throw
luniii" In from vera Cruz in the same
manner, always with a view to folluwlng
a general way the plan nf the. first
Mexican war of forcing the Mexicans
Inti a corner, where a siilllclently largo
body of them could lie engaged to
bring about a decisive action.
The general impression In nnnv cir
cles i that, should a plan of this size
followed, the supremo command of
thn Anient an forces would be given to
Mlijor-lien Taslier H- Bliss, Assistant
Chief of Staff, who Is regarded as the
ablest strategist of the army
GEN. HILL KILLED BY
MERCHANT, REPORT
.Mexico City Coiiimaiuliiiit
Slain liy l-'rcneliinnn,
lififiiffecs Sny.
Kl. Paso, Tex,. June 25 Gen Benja
mm Hill, commander of the Federal ills
trlct of Mexico and ex-commander of
carranza troops In Sonora, wa killed
by a French merchant In Mexico city
when he refused to pay for a hat he had
bought, according to the stories told by
Spanish refugees arriving to-da.
An army officer with Hill then killed
the merchant
SITeIxiR NEW YORKERS.
Ilnow nsvii.I.f, Tex, June 2s The
grounds and tnilldlnus at Fort Brown
have been placed In shipshape for the
nrcomniodntton of the New York Na
ttoint Giiaid e
The camping spot is close to the Itlo
Grande and a good view of a valley
scope of Mexico, with Matiimoros In the
distance. Is to be had from where tlm
tents will be pitched Pontoon bridges
have arrived to be used for crossing Into
Mexico If necessary.
President Had Planned to
Address Congress on
Crisis To-day.
LATIN K.VVOYSTOTKY
MKDIATIOX AGAIN
Sending of Troops to llor
(h'r Will Xol Hp In
tcrruptod. (JKX. FFXSTOX SKNDS
PI. AX OF CAMPAIGN
General Slat'!' to Apprise It
Yilsiin Interested in
Prepai'iition.s.
WtsiiiMiTo.v, June l'i The tei.s.on
in Wuidiinetoti over the MeMiun situa
tion was notably lessened tn-n ght y
the news ii'celved through unoftlclal
sources fiom the border that tint Tre
vlno had onletid tin release of the
Amer.c.iri prisoner., taken at irr.l
and the leturn of their iiiii; me
While Washington oillcials up ti a
late hour wei,. without an i intlrina-
lloll of these reports, the tll.Npns.tlon
was to regard them ns authent. The
pc.-liiisni which had been app.ii eta at
the Willie Huns,. an, m other ollkial
quarter." earlier In tho day gave place
to .1 brighter outlook, and it vva.s ai
knovvledueil that If Cirra- z,i has
yielded In the demand" of the I mud
States to tins extent .in important ."tip
nad boon taken toward averting the
present crisis
The change uf f. cling In Washington
will all the more lniUi'dhle bcciuso
President Wilson uirtil w Til was
Hashed of Gen Trevinos action 'had
been making his plans on the assump
tion that further peaieful parle)s with
Carranza vvcte impossible
The President had In fait made pre
liminary arrangements to lay the
Mexican situation befui,. Congress at
1 o'clock to-morrow lie had xpected
a rejection of the American demands
and had prepared i tentativ e outl'iic of
his address to Congress
More I oiieessloni, lit pecleit.
If Cnrrana really has ordered the
release of the American prisoners, as
now seems certain, till" action Is proba
bly only Vi-.o forerunner of further con
Cfsions The I'niteil Suite." in its re
cent note to Gen, Carranza demanded
the immediate releaso of the prisoners,
together with tho property of the
I'lllted State", and nlsn called upon
Carranza to Inform this Government
ni to the course of action which the
Mexican Government has dctt rnilncd
upon for tho future.
The belle f here Is that Carransa
would not lave .vlelded on the first of
thtse demands unless he Intended to
adopt a conciliatory course toward ths
second
There is no doubt that Pr i!ent Wll
son will welcome the opportunity for a
peaceful understanding with Carranza,
and that he will go more than hilf way
In trilng to clear up the present situa
tion without a recourse to arm".
There Is no doubt though that Car
raura will l.ave to give satisfaction for
the attack on the American troops, and
that the President will not be content
with an) thing short of a definite under
standing in regard to the future. There
Ih no Intention on the part of the Ad
ministration of withdrawing the I'nlted
States troops from Mexico and any
peaceful solution of the present situation
will have to be based on thl" condition.
tikmiuIii it ii ii I ii nr.
Mam person" in Washington have
I i neptb il from tint first over th
Mexican war talk Tliev hive Insisted
tli.it Carranza had no iimne) and no
i mill and little iiminunltlon. and that
he was in no position to undertake a
war with the I'nlted States liven a
lowing for the f.o t that he is a bull
he nled old man. tln v could not on
vlnce themselves that lie would be fool
sh enough In folio Hie Fulled States
Into open hostilities
Latin Americans lieie said loiilglit
that I'arr.inza has ) !eidcd t. the m
tluence of Mexii.in iiitetcMs. uli,i have
been urging him to adopt a inure leasm
able course, etetl If It seemed illi'miSlS
tent with Mexti-au dlgn.t.v
Diplomats from the Smitii a I Central
American untunes were pi, .isc.1 t j
night over the tuiti affairs have taken
and It was Intimated Hint if I'.iirati.t
has released the A inc-t 1 -a n pi.sqier.s a
other effort might In" made to settle the
other differences Ihinugh mediatum
The surrender of tie tiierliin pr s
oners and the moie cmicliatoi v altitude
which Carian.a seems io have adopt, 1
will not change the Plesidelits pints fo
sending tlm militia lo the imder The
moving of the Hoops will IN
lapallv as possiiii,. The Presment
determined tlt.it he will l ave an i li
quate force on the bonier to prutei I It
ag.tim-t Mexican raids and to uuei an
oilier etnetgeni y lh.it nut niise
Impii'salse v id t-in .' of the deti r n i ed
f.ijdimn In vvhnh Hie il nun " r i Is
hurt) lug the piepiiiations t.i n .,
hostilities Willi Mexico w.i- ii.ved i
(he olllcial discliiMitc that Get Funs' m
already has mapped mil ,i 1 pt in
for a Mexican . .inipa nn
I'lnn lit Hi- xiloplcil
V ong message fi
ii i
I "'on
e-d .It
i ll,.l 1,1
! ,h he-
i wo' be
n hi II
transmitting be plan i
the Mate I icp.u t uien' ' d v
to. day Ii) the li. nei i Staff
listed Ih it Gen Pip si ,i, s p
ndopted lio it nnst in
it
lion
The si e.t e e
Kuntnn plan N i t '
Ihe
'1 b
