NIGHT
EXTRA
ftimtmn
ititntt
,
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOli. H.-NO. 248
PHILADELPHIA, THIT1ISDAY, J UKJ2 20, 3 91G.
cortiianr. 1018. sr mi Peitta Lnxitt Courixt.
DEMAND OF U.S.
iNOW, SAFETY OF
MEN IN MEXICO
IKelease of Captives by
i Carranza Is Partial
Compliance
WASHINGTON AWAITS
FORMAL JKJfiJfLiX TUJJAX
fBorder Has Little Faith in
i Expected Backdown on
Expedition
iPBRSHING MOVES CAMP
fcarranzistas Fortify Chihuahua
Cty Prisoners Jm ltouto .
to Juarez
I
irrcdondo Sure, All Along,
Captives Would Be Freed
k WASHINGTON, Juno 29. The
attitude of the Mexican Embnssy
was outlined by Ambassador Desig
nate Arrcdondo this afternoon as
follows:
"I have been Instructed by Min
ister of Foreign Affairs Aguilar of
ficially to inform, tho United States
that my Government has ordered
tho release of tho prisoners taken in
;thb battle of Carrizal and that they
wero'. started for tho border last
night
I have been confident that eventual
ly tho American spldicrs would bo
released. .
"The attitude of tho First Chief
has steadfastly been one of. friend
ship toward tho United States,
prompted alwaysliy a desire to avoid,
conflict and promote tho welfare of
hnh Governments. In the situa
tion now existing' it should bo borne
4n mind that it has not been brought
About bv nnv act that could be at-
'tritmted to the' do facto Government
Jjr.the Mexican people, but hns been
'OW entirely to tho premeditated in
'JtaBuonof' an 'Irresponsible criminal."
'?
' c$n Gen. Venustiano .Carranza's at-
; Jtttjtownrd the American cxpqditfpn
iiiSSfe'MbxIcb'-de'ncnds tho .settlement'
kjuitt issued which Brought that coun
.Wrind'&'o United 'Stales to tho brink
j '?' 7; " -,- - '
K Release; of tha prisoners taken at;
h uarrizai prevented Immcdlnto hoatlii
llities. tut a guarantee, of safety from at-
ptaefc. to, tho Pershing forces must fol-
fjfiow jq mini too 'aemanus oi- jrreaiacni
. Wilson's ultimatum.
f YTashington awaited tho. formal re
Sa'ply to thb ultimatum, which, it is un-
R''derstood, vril bo' received today.
f Officials vlowcd tho situation with
Ip optimism, holding that since Carranza
'& backed down on ono point, upon which
Lhe had been obdurate, ho would now
f -concede tho others-thai his "bluff had
been called:"
B Tt I,.1,.il.. ..-4i 11 i. ,ii.
United States will not withdraw its
forces at this time.
F4--. rr l- a. , i. .
I juuub as, mcaiauon wero renewea,-
SLaun-American diplomats being of the
pinion that, with tho question of cap
ites disposed of, tho future attitude
lot Carranza was open to arbitration.
PTheso diplomats raro recelviner credit
n fnr n mAni ..l....... J ifM... j:hu
ify " to-1'' i-wJf ill JJCfauuumi;
r. vurranza to yield to tho first of Wll-
ons demands.
Border reDOrts Bhow thnfc inn much
; fith is not Placed in tho Mexican First
IrWllef. find thf mnvmnnf. nf f.nnna "ham
bot been halted. General Pershing is
lined UD rendv tn fltrikn nnrl fhn Mn.
r tlonal Guard continue in their march
l w me irontier.
QO. B ENGINEERS, AWAITING ORDERS, SLEEP IN TRAIN SEATS
affigffiygBysgai1
QUICK NEWS
Photo by Sinn" Photographer.
A sceno at tho Mount Grotna station last night. This Philadelphia company is expected to pass through
Philadelphia this afternoon.
STATE TROOP
START TRIP TO
BORDER TODAY
First El Paso Train Stops
in Philadelphia This
Afternoon ,
MEN EAGER FOR JOURNEY
'
Company B,.Engiheer-Battalion,
' May Halt Here for
Haif an' Hour
JlELEASE OF U. S: CAPTIVES
DELAYS BUT DOES NOT END
CHISIS IN MEXICAN AFFAIR
WASHINGTON. Junn 41 TiriH, ,. ..
Mediate Crisis." cnuiuil hv th f.nlnn o.
tft n4. Q, or tho JOJh Cavalry removed by
release, uie United States waltqd today
IPrCarransn iM.-'Xt.lfiK 1.1- w.41... ' a j
1. ,7' " a mmuua lowara
raencan expedlUon still fan-. Mexican
Other National Onard rewB, pront noiei.
(olu und pliototrnpln on l'oye'0 and 8.
By CARL L. ZBISBERG
Evening. Ledgtr Stag CorrffioXd'mt
MEADQUAIlTEnS. CAMP BIIUM-
BAUail, MT. GRETNA, Pa., June 20.-r-Tho
departure of Company B, Philadelphia, and
Company A, Soranton, engineer battalion,
for 'El Paso, on tho first troop train to
leave the mobilization camp, will take place
this afternoon, "according to medical offl
cera who ara "vaccinating and Inooulatlng
the battalion.
This to ttje last formality which stands
between the cnglnoers and action. Five
days' rations are being loaded on the train.
Tho AVar Department has been notified
that the engineers are ready and Captain
Kemper, U, S. mustering odlcer, In charge
of entraining troops, momentarily expects
an order releasing tho companies.
Tho troops, which are tho engineer battal
ion, and Include crack Company B, of
Philadelphia, will pass through Philadel
phia this afternoon en route to El Paso,
Tex., where tho 1st Brlgado, also of Phila
delphia, wilt follow Bhortly. Supremo ef
forts are belhg made to entrain, tha threo
regiments of tho First Brigade today
The engineering troops will pass through.
Philadelphia In cars liberally and plainly
marked In wide chalk ''Company B,
Philadelphia Engineer Battalion Company
A Scranton." Their train will shift
from the Philadelphia, and Reading
tracks at Wyne Junction to the Balti
more and Ohio and will stop perhaps for
half an hour at the 8Uh and CheBtnut
streets station before going southwestward.
The two companies forming the battalion
slept In their passenger coaches last night,
after entraining at 9 o'clock and ate .break
fast on the train.
The final requirement before departure
DEATH PENALTY
FOR CASEMENT
IN IRISH PLOT
Irish Knight Found Guilty
of Treason in. High Court
oi Justice
HEARS SENTENCE BRAVELY
Jury
Out Only 50 Minutes After
Lord Chief Justice's
Charge
in
L Fak ffenara.1 IVfAvfoan ifit.ttAn - i
-,., ,,,,., Mh4t.Vlf T10 ICM
(Mute, BUt whether It will yield Itself to
tfplomatlo adjustment or -whether force of
rm yet must be resorted to depended en
ffUrsly oi) th developments of the next few
r "tcretary Tanftlntr bmU ha.j ..
ar mediation offers ion behalf of Spain
tm the Latln-Amerlcan republics. Jlo firmly
fJMfcted, jn discussing he outlook with a
;teommitea representing these diplomats.
t fl mW !a'i'actory reply was made
'K.I u",raa,um Bn' forward last Sunday,
ys Government could not nHmi h k.
?M anything Involved Jn the relations, be
$een the twn mmtt.B .h ,- . -..,.,...
mediation.
B? Tthe ultimatum the VnlWd States flrtt
I -r.mu wie immediate and unconditional
1 ' the Carrliar' prisoners of war.
l ft mis nas been ordered the State p
Baftment hai no nmcintiu iu.n in...,.j
K," tast W t it wa.by th? direct
pp-s. vi we preawent df th de facto gov.
IfWWt The RUtlrial AamanA in h ..HI.
p.ipthowtvw, WM contained in tha oB'
Vtsttarf a ft tfwe. C1wb fcw j
Continued on Tate Nlnt, Colnma Two
U-BOAfS ARRIVAL
NEWS TO NORFOLK
U. S. Port Officials Ignorant if
Superpubmarine Haa Really
Reached NewpbrFNews
NORFOLK, Va.. June 29, Reports thaj
a German' super-submarine had entered'
the Virginia Capes were-widely circulated
here today but were denied at the office of
Korroan Hamilton, collector of the port,
Hamilton's assistant said that he had
heard for the last three weeks that a.
German U-boat was coming here but that
up to 1 o'oclock this afternoon none had
been sighted, Tha Collector haa asked
xL. hp hureau observer at the Capes,
and the Virginia Pilots Association, which
would furnish "J Pw w puma "
vessel In after It reached tho three mile
limit, to report at once the coming in of
any vessel of this character,
m.... .,. crulslrur outside of the Capes
which are said to have been hired by the
German Embassy to wait for the undersea
graft M St comea to this port
The Collector"" "o8 baM ben flooded
ith inau!ris concerning the rumored pre-'
2ice ol the U-boat in American waters. Tha
moiit ci?esif -. ., 11)Vf
C iitUccJ sit S?f ww$ Colusa ja I
wBKjL)Wyr'.v A
in IB llHIi
FRENCH STRIKE
TN CHAMPAGNE;
FIRM ON MEUSE
P.enetrate First and Second
Line Trenches West of
Le Mesriil
PHILLIES 1st G. 0 2 0 10 '
NEW YORK.... 0 000 s
Klsty nntl Klllcfer; Andeison and RarJden.
WILLIS DAVIS AND JOHNS WIN
CLEVELAND, 0., Juuo 20. In the tipper "oraoket of tho aeml
flnnl round of tho tloubiea nntlonnl crny court tennis touruamolit
WHHs E. Bavlu,- San jITrftnclsco, nnu Ifnroid. V. D. Johns, Lelnnd
EtanforJ University, today uefcntcu Albert G. Spnuldlng; nnd T. W.
xTcndriclco, Buffalo, G-l, 0-1, 0-3.
RELEASED II. S. TROOPERS REACH JUAREZ
EL PASO, Tex., June 20. The American troopers taken piinoner
lit Cnrriznl by Mexicans arrived at Juarez this afternoon.
BRITISH CAPTURED 81 U-BOATS, REPORT SATfS
MONTEVIDEO, Juno 20. Up to May 1 the British navy ha3 de
stroyed' or captured 81 German submarines. This Inforau.tTon was
received hero" today from a source close to tho British Admlra'ly.
SLAVS CAPTURE 10.500 TEUTONS IN ONE DAY
PETHOORAD, June 20. Russian troops captured 221 Austro
German officers and 10,285 men In yesterday's fighting;, It was offi
cially announced this afternoon. The number of prisoners taken
Blnce the Russian ('offensive began now totals more than 200,000.
GERJVfAN,' DRIVES PAIL
SENTENCED TO DEATH t
Sir Roger Casement .was1 pro
nounced guilty of high treason by
tho British High Court today.
LONDON, June 20, Sir Roger Casement
today was found sutlty of high treason In
the High Court of Justice. 'The .Jury was
out only BO minutes.'
Immediately after the' verdict was re
turned. Casement was sentenced to' death
by Baron Reading, the Lord Chief Jus
tice. As. the verdict was announced, Sir Roger
Casement stood up bravely under the blow,
lie had evidently, .entertained little hope
from the beginning of the trial.
J E. 'Jones, of counsel for the defense,
who finished BUmmlptr up because of the
illness o Alexander Sullivan, chief counsel
for Casement, argued that Sir Roger was a
loyal, patriotic; Irishman. He contended that
he was recruiting an' Irish regiment among
prisoners In German because the Ulsterltes
threatened civil war (n Ireland.
The- Jury," IAterpo.sed the. Lord Chief
Justice, 'VIII be instructed that any act
tending t9 Weaken 'te, country's power of
resistance was 'aiding and comforting the
King's enemies."'
Casement was plainly dipressed by this
ruling. He ' turned an appealing loo
toward his counsel who hastily concluded
his argument
The Attorney General, Sir Frederick E.
Smith, began summing up at it MS a. m.
for tha prosecution. He 'said that the
argument Bet up by Casement's counsel
was that there was a home rule bill on
the statute books for the pprth of Ireland,
that forces were armlnff for resistance, and
that, as tha military was Inadequate for
the support o tnos wishing the bU to
becoma a-Uyw, It was necessary for all
Irishman to arm.
"Had the acta for which the prisoner
wan arraigned been committed before tha
war, and, a tha .tUng of ttje formation of
the Ultef volunteers these words might
. Cpsibmi e ,R 31, Cfhwaa, (gat;
British Bombard Fdc'k Lines
OnUnpreccdentetT Scate
By. Frederick palmer
BRITISH, HEADQUARTER'S IN
FRANCE, June 29. A cannonade
of unusual violence with numbers of
trench' raids has continued along
tho entire British front during tho
last 24 hours. Hero nnd there in
tense outbursts from concentrated
artillery have occurred on both
sides.
Tho British used both gas and
smoke to cover their trench raids on
tho Yprcs salient. Dead Germnns
were found gassed in their trenches
nnd tho Germans retaliated with a
bombardment of tho Canadian posi
tions on Observatory Ridgo and
Sorrel Hill.
Tho ease, with which raiding pnr
ties under the cover ofa bombard
ment can rush nn enemy'a trench,'
inflict losses and bring back pris
oners hns mado it a systematic
nightly business nlong tho whole
front during tho last few days. It
is bolng carried out on a scale not
attempted hitherto in tho course of
the war.
$2,000,000 FOR MILITIAMENJS FAMILIES
WASHINGTON, June 20. A new bill appropriating $2,000,000
for tho relief of married militiamen's families and providing Uiat the
Secretary of War may at hls discretion '.allow 'IfM a month, or as 'an
alteriiatlvo qrdor tho militiamen's dlachargcfrom, the.-anny, was. in
troduced .today by Chairman Hay of the House Mlllta'ry Committee.
Lj&i&mtfriqida' t,""M . - - - .--p -v
," BODY OF GIRL FOUND IN DELAWAREJRIVER
.. ". ' ' " ' '.'V' 'V;'"S ,' '. '. ,
, , With the finding of tho body of' oeven'-year-old- Bitdd SohIder,
, ot 222 Milton street, Camden, in the Delaware Stiver today, tKo.'.eory
of abduction advanced in the disappearance1 of a youtlran'd'two chil
dren, who -have been missing from their respective homes for tiie
past three days, is dispelled. ''.
PARIS, June 20.
French troppa took the offensive in the
"Champagne region last night, nnd after
cleaning- out the. German first line trenches
west .of' Le Mean 1 1, penetrated the enemy's
.second line, blowing up several shelters, the
War' Office announced' today. -
An attempt, "by the Germans' last night to
extend, their position In the region of Tlilau
mont wood, northeast of Verdun, resulted in
failure. k ,
' A strong German a.ttack was launched in
(hat sector, the, communlriua stated, but It
broke down under the grueling fire of the
French guns.
A heavy bombardment was under-way all
night on both'Bldea ot the Meuse.
The .text of tlie official communique fol
lows: ' , i
'.In' Champagne, in the direction of TahuVe
and west of the Butte bes Mconil, a sur
prise attack,. In which we were successful,
enabled us. io. drive the enemy. from the
trenches In 'the first line and to .penetrate
at, certain points as far as. the second line,
where we bt?w up many shelters.
. ''Op the' left-bank of the Meuse there was
an artillery duel In the sector' of Hill 304,
but no- infantry action. On the right bank,
Utter a violent bombardment which lasted
all the afternoon of yesterday, (he Ger
mans launched- about 8, p. m,. R Violent
attack against our positions northwest bf
Thtaumont wood. Checked by our curtain
of fire and our musketry, the enemy was
unable to reach our lines at a single point,
and it furthermore suffered .appreciable
losses. During; the night there was a very
sharp bombardment In the region of Ch'enola
woods."
The. Germans concentrated their Are
against the- French' positions at Hill 301
and In Chenols woods.'
At the northern end of the front, par
ticularly between the La Bassee canal -and
Artols, the British are continuing their
steady pressure-against the German post-
rtions. Trenches -are being destroyed, rail
ways wrecked and ammunition depots
blown Up by tha big gun Are of the English.
Few Infantry .attacks have been made,
tha English contenting themselves with
small ralJliiE parties after a German trench
'ii,J ia face IW, Colsoa T
-J"
AUSTRIAN TORPEDOBOATS SHELL ITALIAN COAST
VIENNA, Juno 29, Tho Admiralty announces that tho Italian coast near
Glulanova has been bombarded by n flotilla of Austro-Hungnrlan torpodoboat's. An
Italian seaplane that was on the way to! attack Trlesto wan shot down 'by an aviator
who arose from an Austrian warship. Tho Italian observer was accompanied by a
French pilot. Both wero wounded. 4
THREE MORE ITALIAN SHIPS SUNK BY SUBMARINES
MADRID, Juno 29, Threo more Italian steamships havo been sunk by sub
marines. They wore tho Monglbollo, 4069 tons; the Roma, -39B0 tons, and tho Pino,,
1706 tons. The crows wero landed today. '
ENGLAND TO FREE "CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTORS TQ WAR"
LONDON, Juno 29. AH Bonuine conscientious objectors to military service will
bo released frpm prison on tho condition that they promise to perform work of na
tional Importance, Premier Asqulth announcod-in Commons today. Recently a num
ber bf men havo been Imprisoned because they refused to servo in tho army on
the grounds of conscience. Some wero sentenced to death, but the sentence was
commuted.
ASQUITH DENIES GENERAL AMNESTY FOR IRISH
LONDON, Juno 29. Premier 'Asqiiith denied in the House of" Commons this
afternoon that the Government had decided to grant amnesty to all' Irish revolu
tionists participating in the Dublin outbreaks as n, condition pf settlement of the
Irish problem. His denial was mado during tho courso begun by 'Unionist opponents
of Lloyd-Qeorge's plan of settlement.
BILL TO PROTECT PANAMA CANAL AGAINST SPIES
WASHINGTON, Juno 29, Rigid regulations to protect the Panama Canal from
spies and bombs were provided in a bill paused by the Senate today, The bill was
introduced by Senator O'Gorman, of New York, chairman of the Interoceanlc Canals
Committee, at the request of the. War Department. Senator Brandegee, of Con
necticut, urging the measure, declared that tho disturbed condllons brought about
by the war made, drastlo restrictions necessary in the Canal Zone, '
KING ORDERS ERECTION OF KITCHENER MEMORIAL
LONDON, June 29. King George sent a message to Commons today giving
directions for the erection of a public memorial to the memory of Lord Kitchener.
$26,000,000 ARMY-NAVY BILL PASSED BY THE SENATE
WASHINGTON, June 29. In 6T seconds tho Senate today passed a 26,000,000
urgent 'deficiency bill for the army and na,vy establishments. The House pasaed the
measure yesterday after spending practically all day on it.
. i.n.i i ,...,.. ,
, 14 PERSONS KILLED IN RUMANIAN -FOOD RIOT'
AMSTERDAM, June 29. Dispatches received here from Bucharest say that 14
persons were killed and' 85 wounded at Galatz, Rumania, when the police repressed
a demonstration against the high prices of foodstuffs.
ELEVEN MUTUAL. INSURANCE COMPANIES FAIL
HARUISBUUG, Jun 29. Eleven mutual insurance companies, all of which
were Intermingled with the Aetna Fire and Marine Insurance. Company, Doyer,
Del., are defunct and unable Va pay a dollar of the 120,Q00 in riaks which are
chargeable against them, according to a. report roads by Samuel W. McCullough,
deputy State Insurance commissioner, as receiver for these concerns. The com
panies pro the Falrmount, Imperial, Metropolitan, Columbia, George Washington,
Loyal, people'. Mercantile, Colonial, Integrity and. Schuylkill Mutual Insurance
Companies Ninety per cent of th poUdf wert written, in vther. Slats than
Pennsylvania, -and there Li no way for the policy holders to rcaltea a caat.
PHIOJ3J OtfJE CENT
PRESIDENT TO
BE GUEST TODAY
OF THE AD MEN
Will Speak in Independence
Square This Afternoon
ARRIVES IN, CITY AT 3tB5
Tonight's Program for
Great Marine Pageant '
Just before 7:30 o'clock this eve
ning tho first event on tho program
of tho Marino Pageant, to bo hold
under tho auspices of' tho Poor
Richard Club in honor of tho ad
men, will take place. Erom that
tlmo until ll o'clock thcro will bo a
continuous performance, consisting
of nil kinds of boat races accom
panied by pyrotcchnical1 displays.
Tho pageant will bo held over tho
regular rowing course on tho Schuyl-f
kill River in Fnirmount Park;
Appended is tho program:
7:20 Canoe races.
7:55 Band bargo moves.
8:01 Canoes move.
8:16 Band barge anchors.
8:41 Canoes arc parked.
8:41 Four-oared gig race.
8:51 Eight-oarcd raco.
9:01 Octopedc raco.
9:11 Navy cutter race.
9:20 Advertising parade.
9iB3 Fireworks.
10:50 Good-night 1
Trosldent Woodrow "Wilson will arrive
In Philadelphia from Washington at 3:ES
o'clock this afternoon, and will proceed
directly to Independence Square, where he
will address .a great patriotic meeting of
10,000 dolcgatos to tha Associated Advcr
tlslng Clubs of 'the "World. ,
Announcement that the President was
coming for a certainty was made by Her
bert S. Houston, president of the Associated
Advertising Clubs ot the "World, this morn
ing at the opening of the fifth day's session
of the ad convention in tho Academy of
Music. The news was received with great
. enthusiasm by the delegates.
"WILL REMAIN AN. HOUR,
Tho President will spend exactly ona
hour and IE minutes In Philadelphia. He
left "Washington at 12; 40 p. m.
Accompanying tho President were Mrs.
Wtlsonr'BecrctarjrTumUlty, Dr: Gary T.
Grayson,- Vanco C. McCormlck, chairman of.
thd Democratlo .National Committee,; ilrs.
Howe, tho President's sister, and Mrs,
Cothran. Enrouto from "Washington to
Philadelphia, tho President and McCormlck
expect to complete tho work of choosing
tho Campaign Committee, according to dis
patches from Washington.. It Is understood
its membership will include Representative,
Glass, of Virginia, and Doremus, of Mich
igan, and Senator Stone. Others may be
V. W. Marsh, of Iowa; Fred R. Lynch,
Homer S. Cummlngs. Henry Morgentha
and' Senator; James.
Tho presidential party will be met at
Broad street station upon arrival of thei
special at 3:55, by Mayor Thomas B.
Smith. Herbert S. Houston, president of the
Associated Advertising Clubs of tho World,
and Robert, H. Durbln, president of th
Poor Richard Club. Four automobiles will
whirl tho President and his party to Inde
pendence Square.
, The President will speak from a platform
which has been ereoted at the south door'
of Independence Hall. A space large enough
to 'accommodate the ad men will be roped
oft Only persons wearing the official
badges of the Poor Richard Club will b
admitted to this Inclosuro. The publlo may
occupy tho remainder of tho Bquare.
RAPTCOtTARDINO TUB PIIESIDENT.
Probably the greatest care ever accorded
nnv individual will be given to the rresiuent
on his arrival here. Twenty-six picked de
tectives, with twice that numoer or piain
oir,th men. and at least EOO policemen will
be stationed along tho route of march. Usu
ally a visiting executive Is assigned only
fnnr detectives, but the magnlture of tha
reception to be Liven President Wilson
caused Captain Tate to proviae lor two aa-1
dltlonal men.
The men assigned by Captain Tate( of
th Detective Bureau, to serve as a body-
guard to the President are Alfred I. Souder,
James Sullivan. George Btlllman, Hugh
Ayres, aeorge Timlin ana uscar urown.
In addition to this guard 20 detectives
will Toltce Broad Street Station and then
ri,eti ,!num to Inderiendence Snuara to
handle the crowds, One hundred policemen
will be statlonea aiong v;nsinui sireer,
while 400 will be stationed at the squara
and at the station.
The trafflo arrangements, will bo Under
the direction of Captain Mills, noted trafflq
expert, who has gone to unusual care to
perfect tha President's tour. A new ar
rangement, never tried before In the city,
will be a complete clearing' ot Chestnut
street tq expedite the tourists, Traftlq will
be closed street by street, so that there will
Continued ea Pas Year, Column Vital
THE WEATHER
"- "H ' """"I"'
FORECAST
For Phttudflphta and vlcinityFatr
tonight awl probably Friday; not piuch
cnonfl? t Urnpbralwe; light, variabti
lEoS? JUraOFQTJNll
6IlVSBFECTACIjB C4SS. , , ,- '-M
t the aajjigu toUa the jrin, , -Rjj
iistinrii Lot xchur ft
o4 ChMUiM, vk, moa4
S4P$a cuaiseBa maa ?,
Ottor m &iU $-mum! Mas) m
tarn, mrwu w li
