Established By Wm. Need, 1870.
VOLUME XLVI.
FREDERICK RAILROAD
Tliurmimt Division
Schedule In Effect June 18, 1916.
All trains Daily unless specified
Leave Frederick Arrive Thurmont.
625a. m Ex-ept Sundry 7.12 a.m.
7. oa. m. Sunday Oily 757a. m.
820a. m. Except Sunday 9.07 a. m.
9.50 a 10..H7 p. m.
11.40 a. in ....: 1-27 p m.
2.10 p. m 257 p. m.
4.00 p. m 4.43 p. m.
4.42 p. m 5.29 p. m.
6.10 p. m 6 67 p. m.
820 p. m. Sunday Only 9.07 p. m.
10.10 p. 10.56 p. m.
Leave Thurmont. Arrive Frederick.
6 01 a. 6 46 a. m
7.21 a. m. Except Sunday 8.06 a. m.
811a. m Sunday Only 8.56 a. m.
923 a. m. Except Sunday 10 08 a. m.
10.45 a. 11.30 a. m.
12.34 p. Ll9 p m.
3.14 p. 3.59 p. m.
6.02 p. m. Sunday Only 547p in
6.22 p. in. Except Sunday 6.07 p. m
5 45 p. m 6 20 p. m.
72ip. m. Sunday Only 8.05 p. in.
735 p m Ex -ept Sund *y 820 p. m.
915 p. m Sunday Only 10.00 pm.
Note--All trains arriving and leaving
Thurmont scheduled from Western Mary
land station.
Note—All trains arriving and leaving
Frederick scheduled from Square.
Western Maryland Ry.
Schedule In Effect June 18, 19iG
GOING WEST.
<D C
4) S 4) § % S ‘5
>C>a>u > a .i a
J-3 <§ <5
0Q H s
•4 00am 6.00 am 7.20 am t10.25m
*B.OB 10.43 12 07pm
•10.40 12.32 ar1.35 4.00pm B.loam
+3 25pm 5 19pm 6.28
t4.04 6.21 ar7.40
f5.14 7 31 8 55
$6.68 9.13 10.36
GOING EAST.
T3 C -g g
4>Si 4)_f DO 4)0
> “ > H >£. >£ > g
ooc ccja u
SS 3 E % M % 3 5-
s-o J 3 4J £4
o 33 H W
t6.lsam 7.18 am 9.16 am
t8 00 9.19 11.39
f7.15 *l.sspm 3.13pm 5.41pm
•8.15pm 1.30pm 3.50 4.55 6.51
•4.20 5 42 8.10
•Daily. tDaily except Sunday. JSunday
Only.
An rone Handing u *ke' h n*ul doscrlpt lon dirt
qnlcklf ascertain our oi*ni‘on free whether an
Invention H prohiiMf patent Hfdo. Communion.
Ilonastrlotlf conildentiul. HANDBOOK on Patents
sent free. Oldest uroiiojt for ancurlng patents.
Patent* taken through ftlunn A Co. receive
tpecial notice , wit bout cbsruo, in the
Scientific American.
A handsomeljr Hlnstrsted wooldf. Largest cir
culation of any <-lcm>UO Journal. Terms, f3 a
year; four months, $L Bold by all newsdealers.
MUNN & Co. 36,B '°- New York
Branch Office. 625 F PU Waehlut’tou, D. C.
muiualTSTnce CO.
OF FREDERICK COUNTY.
Organized 1843.
Office—4(s North Market Street
Frederick, Md.
A. C. MiCardell, 0. C Warehime
President. Secretary.
SURPLUS, 335,000.00.
No Prumium Notea Required.
Save 25% and Insure with a Home
Company.
DIRECTORS
Josedh G. Miller, O. P. Bennett,
James Houck, R. S. J. Dutrow,
Milton G. Urncr, Casper E. Cline,
A. C. McCardell, Charles B. Trail,
Dr. D. F. McKinney, Clayton O. Keedy,
George A. Deau, P. N. Hammaker.
Rates furnished on application to our
resident director, P. N. Hammaker,
NOTICE!
I have moved my HARNESS
STORE to the Second Floor of
MASONIC BUILDING
where I will be prepared to fur
nih my patrons and the public
generally with all
HORSE EQUIPMENT.
Repairing neatly and promptly
done. Also
SHOE REPAIRING
in all branches. A full stock
of Robber Heels on hand at all
times.
Respectfully,
JOS. C. GERNAND.
nov 26tf
The catoctin clarion.
Federal Inquiry or
Railroad Strike?
Faced by demands from the conductors, engineers, firemen and brakemen
that would impose on the country an additional burden in transportation costs of
$100,000,000 a year, the railroads propose that this wage problem be settled by
reference to an impartial Federal tribunal.
With these employes, whose efficient service is acknowledged, the railroads
have no differences that could not be considered fairly and decided justly by such
a public body.
Railroads Urge Public Inquiry and Arbitration
The formal proposal of the railroads to the employes for the settlement of
the controversy is as follows:
"Oui conference* nf ilemoiufrated that we cannot harmorme out differences o( opinion and that eventually tha
matter* in comro.emy must be panned upon by oihei artd disinterested agencies Tlierdore we propose Mial yout
proposal* ami !he proposition ol iht railways bt disposed ot bv one oi the oihei ol ihr billowing methods
I Preferably by submission to the Interstate Commerce Commission the only tribunal which, By reason of ita
accumulated iniormation bearing on railway conditions and Us control ol the revenue ol the i ail wars, is in a poai
lion to consider and protect the rights and equine* ol all the interests affected and lu piuvide additional revenua
necessary lo meet the added cost ol opeiitiun in case yom proposals are round bt the ( uminission to bt lust and
reasonable, ot in the event iht Interstate Commerce Commission cannot, undo existing laws, act in the piennses,
that we jointly request Congress to take such action as may be necessary lo enable the Com in i lion to considci and
promptly dispose ol the questions involved, oi
I By arbitration in accordance with the provisions ol the Federal law" (The Newilands Act).
Leaders Refuse Offer and Take Strike Vote
Leaders of the train service brotherhoods, at the joint conference held in New
York, June 1-15, refused the offer of the railroads to submit the issue to arbitration
or Federal review, and the employes arc now voting on the question whether
authority shall be given these leaders to declare a nation-wide strike.
The Interstate Commerce Commission is proposed by the railroads as the
public body to which this issue ought to be referred for these reasons:
No othei body with such an intimate know.-dge ploye* as wages and the mone> to pay increased seagtt
of railroad conditions has tuch an unqucationcd puai can come Iron) an other source than the ratea paid
lion in the public confidence by the public
The rales the railroads may charge the public tot The Interstate Commerce Commiaaion. with ita coo
transportation are now largely fixed bv tbit Govern- lro | ov(l ratea. is in a position lo make a complelt
ment board investigation and render such decision aa would pro-
Oul ol every dollat received bv the railroad* Iron tyct the interest* ol the railroad employea. the owner*
the public nearly one-hall ta paid directly to the cm of the railroada. and the public.
A Question For the Public to Decide
The railroads feel thai they have no right tp grant a wage preferment qf
$100,000,000 a year to these employes, now highly paid apd constituting only
one-fifth of all the employes, without a clear qiapdatc from a public tribunal that
sjiall determine the merits of the case after a review of all the facts.
The single tssue before the country is whether this controversy it to bt settled by an
impartial Government inquiry or by industrial warfare.
National Conference Committee of the Railwaya
ELISHA LEE, Chairman
f R ALBRIGHT. Cn’lMiupr O H. EMERSON. CnV<•■*•*. N O MAHER, Pirn PrytldaM.
Atlantic Coast Lin* Railroad. Croat Nortkarn Railway Norfolk 1 Waslaro Railway.
1, W. BALDWIN. Caa‘<aM(ar C. H. BWINO, CanV Mtn.Hr. JAMBS RIISSGLL, Can't dfaaaaop.
Central at Gcor|ia Railway Philadelphia A Reading Railway Daavai A Rio Granda Railroad.
C. L. BARDO, Gen’/ Maeaf/r, B. W. GRICB. Caa'/Sajr. Pro nay.. A M. SGHOYER. daaidaat VUtfn a.,
Ntw York, New Haves A Hartlard Railroad Chaeapeaka A Ohio Railway Panaevlvania Liaee Waal.
B. H. COAPMAN. Uaa-PVyaSdaM A. S. GRBIG, deal. It Kmittn, W L SBDDON, Plea-PSaa..
Southern Railway 8l Lania A See Prancieca Railroad. Seaboard Air Lina Railway
• B. COTTER. Can’t Mt—gm C. W. ROUNS, Can 7 Mtntttr, A J. STONB VlatrmUti.
Wabtak Railway Atebiaou, Topaka A Santa Pr Railway Brie Railroad
P. B. CROWLEY, dial, rut-tntUm. H W McMASTBR. Ca7 Mtttitr O S. WAID STaa-Pra. • Can't Mm.
New York Caatral Railway. Wbaalial I Lake Brin Railroad. Saeser Centre) Liana
fiEO. W. STOCULE i
THURMONT, MD. '
Dealer In
Hardware, Groceries,
Cement, Plaster,
Wall Finish,
Galvanised Iron and
Felt Roofings,
Feed, Seeds, Phosphate,
I
Wire Fencing,and Gates.
Prompt Attention Given
All Orders.
oct 1 14
|
She Knew.
Olive, aged four years, went for s
walk with her father one June morn
ing. Hearing a llrd singing by the
roadside she stopped to admire his
beautiful black an 1 white coat.
’Oh, papa!” she exclaimed, “seethle
bobolink!"
“How do you kn.#w it’s a bobolink?*
asked her father.
“ ’Cause I ’stincily heard it bobble,"
was the reply.—Ladles’ Home Journal
Chestnuts.
Chestnut blight has already done
damage estimated at close to $50,£00,-
000. The disease attacks both Amerl- |
can and European species, but does
little damage to those from Japan and
China. Plant bneders by crossing
Japanese chestnut and native chinqua
pin have produced resistant trees.
Some of the Chinese chestnuts are
said to grow 100 feet high in
home forests.
■- -' wow
Nsvy Talent,
"Why do you insist on taking sum
mer boarders?”
"I like to have ’em around,” replied
Mrs. Corntossel. “It’s a comfort to
have somebody criticisin’ the table be
sides my own family."
K Family Newspaper—lndependent in Politics—Devoted to Literature. Local and General Naws.
THURMONT, FREDERICK COUNTY, MD., THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 1916.
[DUELS IN AIR
! ARE THRILLING
“Bulletin des Armees” Tells How
French Fliers Risk Their
Lives.
HAVE HQ BOLES TO FOLLOW
Success la Won by tha Fighter's Aer
|KI Virtuosity and tha Superiority
of tha Machine He Files—
Some Flights.
Paris. —The Bulletin des Armees
prints an article on aerial duels. As
this publication is official, being is
sued solely to the troops, the details
given may be accepted as literally
correct and free from the exaggera,
tion often lent to aviation stories.
"In April,” the writer begins, "our
aviators brought down thirty-one Ger
man aeroplanes, while we lost only
six. In March the numbers were thir
teen lost pn our side and thirty-five
by tbe Germans; seven, including
three Pokkers, in one day. Our bom
barding squadrons make attacks on
tha Qprman rear lines almost daily.
*Tt is often asked bow aeroplane
fighting is carried on, whether any
special tactics exist for attacking an
enemy or for defending oneself
against an adversary who suddenly
comes in sight. The answer is nega
i live. Aeroplane fighting Is impro
vised to suit the conditions. No do-
I fined method is employed, all being
left to tbe pilot's presence of mind,
coolness and decision.
“Success Is won by the fighter’s
j aerial virtuosity and the superiority
: of the machine he files. Individual
quaUties make the conqueror.
Drops on His Foe.
' "A German champion, like Immel
mann, the ‘super-hawk,’ over whom
German papers wax so enthusiastic,
has but one trick up his sleeve. He
mounts as high as possible* fund tarns
round above pla'sep{Qri Thun wWq
hi 1 patches' sight of ah adversary he
lets himself (all upon hint in a
I straight drop, and fires his machine
; gun as he passes. The fight is then
1 over for him. whatever the result map
have been. He makes oft to bis own
lines and begins the same maneuver
over again.
"Navarre’s wsy of fighting Is alto
gether different He harries his en
emy from every side. He envelops
mtn Ih unexpected evolutions. To pre
vent him from attacking, Navarre car
ries out the most fantastic leaps,
swerves, and twistings, and then at
the right minute pours in a stream
of bullets from bis machine gun. He
has no special tactics, but a marvel
ous variety of attacks and feints.
He never leaves an enemy until ha
has brought him down, unless some
unforeseen circumstance intervenes.
And Navarre is not alone, be has
many a competitor in the service
“ The fighting aeroplane In our
squadrons is one-seated. while the
Germans almost always have two men
in theirs
“ln an aeroplane the sense of bear
ing is useless, the din of the motor
deafening both pilot and observer.
Birds can detect an aeroplane by its
sound from afar and display fear, but
the human bird has to depend upon
sight, and woe to the man who Is
taken by surprise!
Fight at Close Range.
“Aeroplane fighting is at close
range, fifteen to twenty-five yards, if
one wishes to make sure of hitting
the mark with a quick flrer. Of course
there are exceptions. Navarre at Ver
dun, when at a height of feet,
saw a very fast German aeroplane es
caping and fired at 200 yards distance,
almost in scorn, not expecting to
touch bis enemy. But down came the
German machine.
“Generally, however, Navarre tries
to get as close as possible to fight-
One day the wind was blowing a
tempest from behind and a Fokker
was fleeing before him. A twenty-flve
mile chase took less than ten min
utes, Navarre keeping exactly in the
wake of his foe, repeating every un
forseen move that he made.
“All the time the fleeing Fokker
kept up a rearward fire from its mi
trailleuse. Bullets whizzed around
Navarre, but none touched him, his
motor alone received a scratch pr
two. Then, when near enough
varre, who had not fired, opened with
his machine gun and when twenty
five bullets had sped the G r W a h tW
“As fighting la carried on so close
ly it sometimes happens that adver
series get caught together. An enor
mous thfce-seated German machine
was recently out for its hundredth
filght- It came acrosq n French Vt
pl'nne—an observation, pot a fighting
machine —end determined to demolish
It; not a difficult Job. as the German
machine was heavily armed and more
rapid than the French,
“The Germans rained bullets on the
biplane, which soon took fire. The
two French aviators, recognizing that
they must soon fall to inevitable
death, threw their machine on the
big German machine and there were
five victims Instead of two.”
LIQUID FIRE IS
THE INVENTION
OF AUSTRALIAN
Eccentric John Macgarrigle Sold
War Device to German
Government.
KEPT COMPOSITION A SECRET
Zealous Inventor Wanted to Rid Land
of Noxious Bushes—Observers De
scribe Tests of Machine—Was
Man of Remarkable Talents.
Sydney, Australia. —The German
liquid fire-spraying device in use on
the war’s western front sprang not
from Teutonic brains, but from the
head of an eccentric Australian, John
Macgarrigle. This fact has just been
learned here, but it has ample corroba
ration. Macgarrigle is dead, but the
hideous engine he contrived still ex
ists, and it is being recalled by inti
mates of his that several years ago lie
went to Germany and there sold the
thing to the military powers of that
land.
He had previously tried the British
war olllce and the Commonwealth
government, but the former declined
to treat with him on the ground that
his Invention was la contravention to
the laws of humanity and the princi
ples of The Hague convention, while
the latter simply ignored his proffer
apparently as being that of a crank.
He also tried the French or the Italian
government —it is not certain which —
with equally fruitless results, but
when it came to the kaiser s country
he had a warm reception.
"The German government snapped it
up," he told several of his friends. "I
was over to Germany some time ago
and 1 got this off and several other
patents."
Macgarrigle, commonly called “Jim
my" Macgarrigle. was a genius, but,
like most of his stamp, erratic and un
businesslike, and he died poor and vir
tually unknown. One of his traits was
excessive secretiveness although
there can be no question that he was
a wonder in his way—which forbade
his committing any of his inchoate
Ideas to paper, with the result that
they went to the grave with him; and
he was so impracticable in Judging his
own works that the more humane of
them could not be commercialized for
his and the general good. So, beyond
the tire-squirt and the few other in
ventions which he “got off" in Ger
many. there is little to show for his
versatility and ingenuity.
His “Fire-Squirt Ship.”
Macgarrigle’s home was at Warn
beral, near Gosford, New South Wales,
where he maintained a laboratory.
George Z. Dupain. a friend, writing of
the old fellow to the Dally Telegraph,
says:
“After dwelling on the virtues of
nls quick-drying cement, anti-fouling
paint, patent boot polish, a street car
ticket system, explosives and other
things, be led me back to his house,
and showed me the plan of a peculiar
vessel which looked like a man-of-war
It was roughly drawn, for old Macgar
rigle was a bad penman, but as soon
as he began to explain matters 1 un
derstood. This was what he called
his patent flre-sqUlrt ship. It was built
to carry a certain liquid below the wa
terline, and in every portion of the
hull there were ball-shaped affairs,
which, he explained, could not be
pierced by any modern projectile. In
deed. the whole vessel seemed to be
made in such away that no portion
was other than round. He had cer
tain receptacles for enormous pumps
worked by hydraulic pressure, and
these pumps w'ould throw a liquid up
to three or four miles, and even more,
according to their size.
“He explained that a German had
Invented a pump to throw a liquid five
miles. Whether this was correct or
not 1 never took the trouble to find
out, but when old Macgarrigle had ex
plained more details, which I could
not quite follow, he told me about his
fire squirt- He pledged me to secrecy.
"He told me that he had found a
chemical compound which would take
fire when it came into contact with
the air. With further experimentation
he had resolved this into a liquid
form, preserving the same properties,
and then he hit upon applying it to
war purposes. This liquid, he ex
plained, would burn a certain time,
and when on fire its density was re
duced and it would run about any
where and burn everything it came in
contact with. A constant stream of
the stuff would bum incessantly. Its
temperature was high enough to pro
duce a dull red heat In either Iron or
steel, and If the pressure In the firing
apparatus was Increased It would
shrivel up everything it came Into con
tact with. He went on to explain that
It could be fired In a modern shell
which, when H had hurst, would
spread the liquid. He became so en
thusiastlc over this Invention that hla
eyes glittered and he paced hla labo
ratory. making convulsive gestures
and saying that the nation that bought
this invention would have the power
of controlling the world and, if neces
sary, of stopping war altogether.
“I began to think the man was n
maniac and looked around for a meth
od of escape in case he might go com
pletely off his head. However, he
calmed down and 1 took courage tc
question him about this ghastly ma
chine, even demanding that he should
give me proof that what he said was
true. He laughed and said that if 1
came up next evening at dusk ha
would prove the truth of his remarks.
First Exhibit of Liquid Fire.
“Well, I went. Furthermore, 1 took
some friends. Macgarrigle did not ob
ject In the least. He took us outside
on the slope of Mount Pleasant (the
Inventor lived on Mount Pleasant) and
made us all sit down at about ten
yards distant from him. He disap
peared for a while in the bush and
then came back with what I imagined
to be an old oil drum and an ordinary
large garden spray. I could not see
what he was doing because he turned
his back on us but presently he held
the spray up in the air.
“I saw him stand firmly as if to
make an effort, then he quickly
pressed the handle of the squirt and a
long stream of white fire shot out
from the muzzle of the spray and fell
to the ground, there burning brightly
for an instant.
“The thing was done so quickly and
all was over in such a short time that
we were nonplused. Then Macgarrigle
walked calmly toward us and handed
mo the spray, saying: ‘Well, what do
you think of my invention now?’ He
gave us then a lecture on the possibili
ties of the fire squirt. 1 examined the
spray carefully (it was just light
enough to distinguish objects at short
range), pulled out the plunger, smelled
it and tried to seek any clue as to the
nature of the stuff. When Macgarrigle
saw what 1 was doing he laughed
heartily and said 1 wouldn’t find any
thing there. However, I noted that lie
had evidently screwed off the top of
the spray when squirting the liquid,
because ho had failed to put it buck
properly, and also that the leather
plunger was slightly charred. 1 care
fully noted the place where the lire
had fallen and took the trouble to ex
amine it early next day, and, sure
enough, till the herbage was burned and
wherever the liquid had run only
charred vegetation remained. I was
astounded. 1 perceived immediately
that his words were true, and the pos
sibilities of his invention were so
mighty as to make me temporarily
shudder."
Mr. Dupain became much attached
to Macgarrigle and spent many hours
with him. Once when he meant to
pay the inventor a surprise visit he
learned that the old man had departed
for Europe; but as soon as he learned
of Macgarrigle’s return he sought his
home and heard from Macgarrigle
that he had sold his lire squirt to Ger
many.
It appears from an account of Mac
garrigle given to the Daily Telegraph
by another friend, a newspaper man,
that the lire machine was designed al
so for the destruction of prickly pear,
which is one of the curses of Australia
and has already ruined huge tracts of
good land in Queensland. This con
tributor says:
‘‘He told me that he had offered to
clear the whole of the pear in Queens
land under certain terms, but the gov
ernment had turned it down. This
seemed at first inexplicable, as nt the
lime the government was offering a re
ward of $50,000 tor any effective plan
for getting rid of the pest. When 1
told him this he scouted the idea of
anything so paltry and dealt with a
sum of that sort with the contempt ol
a multimillionaire.
“Ho said that the only condition un
der which he would show his hand was
that he should receive all expenses
and get the freehold of all the land
he cleared. As there were at the
time about 20,000,000 acres affected
one may understand the reason for
turning down the offer. The area now,
by the way, runs into 30,000,000 acres.
As I expressed doubt about the effec
tiveness of his plan, he invited me to
his place the following night to see
the squirt at work. But It was a con
dition that no one was to accompany
me. I kept the appointment.
Gives a Second Exhibition.
“Ho began operations by seating me
in a chair, from which I was not to
move. By this means he made it im
possible for me to get a close glimpse
of the machine, but the drum which
carried the oil seemed iu the darkness
to be similar in shape to the recepta
cle which appears In pictures of t’.iose
Germans at the front engaged In this
sort of warfare. He told mo he was
ready, after pumping up the mai bine,
and then let It go. It ejected a con
slant stream of liquid fire from a uhorl
hose length for some minutes, spurt
ing over a distance of about forty feet
With the same mysterious ma.mei
that he had begun operations, he bun
died the plant up and put it away in n
room and locked the door.
“Then ho sat down beside me and
yarned. After urging that this thing
would not only destroy prickly pear,
but noxious shrubbery and weeds ol
all sorts, he told me that what it was
originally Intended for was an instru
ment of warfare. ‘Man,’ he said with
great confidence, ‘this thing tyould de
stroy soldiers as if they were iats
What bayonet charge could stand up
against it? My idea is not a small
squirt like this, but as large as n big
fire-fighting hose sending out a stream
of fire with as much force and volume
as the biggest water hydrant In Syd
ney.’
“A character of this sort naturally
aroused Interest, especially as he be
gan to talk about synthetic rubber
which he could make for 25 cents a
pound (at a time when the genuine ar
tide was about $2.50); cements he
could make at absurdly low rates,
tiles, bricks, explosives, anti-fouling
paint, boot dressings and other things.
I began to think that I had struck, an
Edison.”
The Journalist believes that Maegar
rlglo sold the. explosive Just men
Terms SI.OO in Advance
NO. 16.
Honed to the Germans, and be adds'
“It vas terribly destructive, as an
equal quantity of It with gelignite tore
a hole in a piece of galvanized iron
four times its size.’’
Fred Wright of Sydney robs the ac
counts of Macgarrigle of something of
their romance by saying that the in
ventor, whom he knew well, “frequent
ly suggested ‘wildcat’ schemes for the
employment of chemicals for the de
struction of prickly pear and the ex
termination of rabbits.’’ And he goes
on: “Mr. Macgarrlgle’s spray consisted
of a solution of phosphorus in an in
flammable liquid. He tried bisulphide
of carbon as a solvent for his phos
phorus and then mixed this, with other
combustible liquids. There was noth
ing particularly original in the idea
and it was not at all safe to handle.
Wo afterward experimented with hy
drogen phosphide for fire sprays. His
explosive consisted of a grass-tree gum
compound.”
MRS. ELIHU ROOT, JR.
x^SSB
’wii
/ : t| *?■ "i^j
■I , .}
-• ,
Mrs. Elihu Root, Jr., is the daugh
ter-in law of Former Senator Root of
New York. She was Allga Stryker,
daughter of the president of Hamilton
college. The two families have been
intimately related ’for a number of
years.
GIRLS ENJOY CHICKEN FARM
They Were Stenographers In Chicago,
but Now Have Place of
Their Own.
Chicago.—Miss Gertrude Croxton
and Miss Rose May have discovered
the joy of life. Four years ago they
lived at Forty-fifth street and Indiana
avenue. They were stenographers and
they found life Just one sheet of paper
after another, without much else.
They dropped the whole tiresome
mess and went to a spot outside ol
Blue Island. They call it Woodslde.
And there they manipulate a chicken
farm that keeps them in zest from one
year’s end to the other.
"We have bought one hat apiece
since we came here,” said Miss Crox
ton. They cost thirty cents each.
Clothes? We never use them. We
wear overalls, and we never have oc
casion to dress. We work, and we
like it. We go to Chicago once a year
on business. Then we hurry back. We
sleep five hours a night in winter
and less in summer. We are busy all
the time —and healthy. We are only
sorry we delayed coming here.”
PARAGUAY TO LEARN ENGUSH
President Authorizes Study of Lan
guage In National Colleges Of
the Country. v
Asuncion, Paraguay.—Under date of
March 28 the president of Paraguay
issued a decree providing for the
study of English in the national col
leges, to be given the same impor
tance as the other prescribed studies
and the teachers to receive the same
salaries as those of other branches.
The president bases his action upon
the recognized value of learning Eng
lish and “in conformity with the rec
ommendation adopted by the recent
Pan-American Scientific congresa in
Washington.”
Years ago English was taught in the
colleges of Paraguay, but was super
seded by German.
CATCH FISH ON TREE LIMBS
Followers of Izaak Walton Hava
Great Sport at Winsted, Conn.,
Says Truthful Scribe.
Winsted, Conn. —They are catching
fish in trees at Highland lake this
spring.
More than 100 perch have been
taken from the limbs of trees by fish
ermen this week. The perch have
spawned on the boughs of hemlock
trees, and whenever worm-baited
hooks appear in their midst the perch
leap for the worms.
The hemlock trees were sunk in
the lake near the west shore of Sec
ond bay last winter by "preparedness
fishermen’’ after largo holes had been
cut la the ice.
