THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAE
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, JUNE 29, 191G
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 42
DIATE BBSffiAVHOE
1LS21
7
d, rnsQH
ELEASEP
11
1U I1VJ.
Commercial Hotel Partially Destroyed By Very Stubborn Blaze
TWO HOUR IE IN CHER
BUSINESS DISTRICT
THRILLING TRUE FOR
OF
I
ITALIANS GAIN FROM
A VSTRIANSAND FRENCH
FROM GERMAN FORCES
FIREMEN
Fire of undetermined cause, but" known to have originated in a court
near the street level, gutted the Commercial Hotel, one of the largest and
oldest establishments in the city last night. The hotel and a number of
other business institutions located i n the same building, lost in all prob
ably not less than $100,000.
The largest and certainly the most trying conflagration the downtown
district has had since it began to be called "built up," occurred the day be
fore Phoenix's modern fire fighting equipment was completed by the turning
over of its newest apparatus, which, however, was used in fighting the
blaze.
The alarm was turned in at 8:55. The blaze lasted two hours and five
minutes, during which time there was the most energetic fire fighting ever
witnessed in Phoenix and the largest crowd, easily 10,000, to witness it.
At 10:30. when the fire first showed :
signs of the effects of the water, the
entire front and south sections of the
building had been drenched.
At this time, the fire broke out with j
renewed vigor in the northeast corner
of the structure, having followed a
bend in a hall on the second floor.
Eating its way through the ceilings, it
reached the roof, where it gave itself
away by casting a brilliant light on
the entire surroundings. The water
was then concentrated on tbis part of
the building, and at precisely 11
o'clock, after it had been burning 2
hours and five minutes, the fire was
officially declared out.
There was not a casualty. Fortu
nately, it was not necessary to seek
anyone in the rooms, for the halls
soon became filled with noxious gases. I
No accidents, even of a slight nature,
were reported. Considering that in
the basement of the Talbot-Hubbard
warehouse, there was an entire carload
of cartridges, beside a great store of
linseed and other oils, this is little
short of amazing.
The fire was discovered by a party
of players In the card room back of
the Old Commercial bar. Guy Alsar,
who had rooms In the hotel for the
week, was the first to notice the
flames 'spreading in the court. He
dashed into the hotel office and
MURDERERS OF
MAN ID III
NOT CAPTURED
(Continued on l"age Four)
-
LUHRS SAYS HOTEL
IS WELL INSURED
George H. N.Luhrs, proprietor of
the hotel, stated to The Repub-
lican last night that he could not
estimate the damage, but that the
insurance on the building, ex-
elusive of that on the furniture,
would total $S0,00Q.
Most of the other stocks were
insured, the only one on which
there was a total loss, being that
of the barber shop. I
Conservatively figuring on state-
ments made by the proprietors of j
establishments suffering in the
fire, The Republican estimates the I
total or gross loss at not less than
$100,000.
-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS, X.-M., June 28. Mill
tary authorities here tonight an
nounced they were convinced that
earlier reports that six Mexicans, be
lieved to have been the murderers of
Wm. Parker and wife on. their ranch
southwest of Hachita, had been cap
tured and killed, were erroneous. In
vestigation indicated, it was stated,
that the report probably was an out
rowth of a fistic encounter between
Americans and Mexicans aboard
train between Douglas and Hachita.
Twenty-three Villistas, taken captive
by General Pershing's command since
it crossed the border, who. formerly
had been held at Namiquipa, have been
removed to a point nearer the border
Gains of additional ground by the'i
Italians from the Austrian, by the
French from the Germans northeast
of Venlnn and by the. Germans from
he 'Russians in Volhynia are chom-
iclcd ir. the latest official communica-
ion Issued by the Italian, French and
Austrian war officer In addition, it
stai"! that the Austrian are still
rolilin- back the vii- r of tie Russian
army wMch is eniieavorniK to urive
pas.t Kuty, Bukowina, wi'Ii Kolomea
as its objective.
In the Trent ino region, Italians con
tinue to force hack the Austnans
along almost the entire front, having
made progress at various points jn
the region between the Adige and
Brcnta rivers; in the Lagarina and
Arsa valleys tietween Posina and as-
tico rivers; and along the upper But
river. Northeast of Verdun, the Ger-mam-
carried out a heavy bombard
ment against the Avocourt and Chat-
tancourt sectors, but were prevented
from launching an infantry attack
from the east e,f Hill 301 by the
fierceness of 'he French artillery' fire.
Northeast of Verdun the Freru h have
recaptured more eround from he
Germans nr.rtli of Hill 321 and around
the Thiaumont works
On the British front the expected
big offensive by King Georges nun
apparently has not yet begun but
ther ore carrying out it various
points successful raids on German po
sitions and bombarding heavily from
the region of I.a Bassee canal to the
south of Uk" Somme. In the latter
regicn, -mall British attacks were put
down by the Germans according to
Berlin.
Continuing their counter offensive
against th Russians in Volhynia, the
Germans have captured the village
of l.inewka to the west of Sokul and
also hae tak?n positions to the south
of the village. Vienna reports that
further Russian attacks near Kuty
in Pukowir.a have been repulsed- by
the Austrian froces. Between the Var
iar rter and Lake Doirnu on the
Greek -Serbian border artillery luel;
arc taking place.
n n when Sergeant Sulbvan, Sir
Roger's leading attorney, collapsed in
the midst of an impassioned summing
up.
Mr. Sullivan, who is himself an
Irishman, was: painting a picture of
the wrongs he declared were suffered
ny Ireland and maintaining that the
prisoner had committed no treason
when he attempted, to raise an Irish
brigade in Germany for the -purpose
of protecting the rights of the peo
ple of Ireland against "unlawful ty
ranny." It was doring one of his most heat
ed outbursts that the speaker aud-
) Heiily paused, swayed heavily against
the bench and then collapsed into a
se::t.
The justices early in session today,
overruled the action of the defense to
quash the indictment on the ground
that the statute under which it was
drawn did not provide for the trial of
a man who committed treason outside
the realm. The effort to establish this
was admitedly the prisoner's main de
fense. It was announced that no wit
ness must be secured in Germany and
this was not permitted.
With the failure of this move, Sir
Roger himself was called upon to
make a statements to the jury. This
statement, which was not given under
oath, and consequently permitted of no
ross examination from flat denials that
Knight had worked in the interests of
Germany or that he had accepted Ger
man gold as bribe.
In Berlin It. Karl I.iebkneoht, the
Socialist leader, was sentenced today
to thirty months penal servitude and
dismiss;, 1 from the army for attomol
ed high treason, gross insubordination
and resistance to the authorities.
The court decided that Dr. Lleb-
knecht was, guided by political fa
lpthiism and not by unpatriotic feel
ing "jnd therefore, imposed the low
est penalty on him. Dr. Liebknechl
is entitled to appeal from the sen
tence. The charge against Dr. I.ieb
knecbt was attempted treason, during
war time and resistance of the authorities.
The trial was held liehlnd closed
FUNSTON re OF RELEASE OF
ran
IS
Republican A. P. -Leased Wire , There was no indication at headquar-
SAN ANTONIO, June 28. General ters here tnat Trevino's order for the
. . . . liberation of the prisoners would in
Funston received tonight a report from , r ,
Brigadier General Qeorge Bell, Jr., at
El Paso, which stated General Bell had
been notified by Mexican Consul Gar
cia that the American prisoners taken
at Carrizal, now are on their way north
to Juarez and probably would arrive
there tomorrow morning.
According to the report. Consul Gar
cia had received word from General
Jacinto Trevino ' that the American
prisoners with their arms and accoutre
ments, were to be delivered at once to
the American authorities.
The report was forwarded at once
to Washington by General Funston.
STILL WAITING
FOR REPLY FROM
GEN. CARRANZA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June 28. An im
mediate break between the United
States and the de facto government
of Mexico has been averted by compli-
any way effect the movement of na
tional guardsmen toward the border. anc with the American demand for
There was a feeling among army offi- , release of twenty-three troopers cap-
cers here that the basic demands ex
pressed in the note to Gen. Carranza
still remained to be answered.
General Funston has urged the war
department to expedite the transfer of
tured in the fight at Carrizal.
Whether a state of war has been
prevented or merely postponed no one
here would attempt to say tonight. Of
ficial information as to the attitude of
recruits for the regular army from j General Carranza was lacking. Until
eastern recruiting stations to the his response to Secretary Lansing's
border.
Word was received here through rail
road sources that the Missouri troops,
the destination of which has hereto
fore been simply "somwhere in Texas,"
were to be sent to Laredo.
U - , , ...;.U I I,. I I.,,.!' Tl U lm h.
from the field. It is possible they may , n " " ' , -
be brought here, where a large stockade , ,,nls l lrl!" ol "r "e- ,.....i ..i .,,
r.t uim V,ua 1,um ornntorl f,.r mpni lor treason was Drouglll to :i-iimi niqn me tuuici whuii nouiu
a, ,.f bidden and dramatic close this after- be made public.
Victims Are Buried
HACHITA, N. M, June 28. The
bodies of William Parker and his bride
of five months, murdered by bandits
in a raid ,upon their ranch, southwest
of here, yesterday, were buried in the
little cemetery here, today. The mourn
ers were largely women; practically
the entire male population of the town
being members of the posses searching
for trace of the marauders.
o '
SELLS GUNS TO MEXICO
FUNSTON FIXES DESTINATION
OF VARIOUS STATE TROOPS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Tex., June 28. The Ar
gentine republic has sold 180 machine '
guns to the Carrancista government, '
according to reports received today by
the local agent of a Mexico City bank.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, June 28. A telegram
from Major General Funston fixing
the destinations of troops from states
in the department of the east was
transmitted through the war depart
ment to Maj. Gen. Leonard Wood late
today. The message said:
"Request the following militia or
ganizations be sent to the points in
dicated: "All of Maryland, to Eagle Pass,
Texas; all of Florida to Del Rio,
Texas; all of Maine and all of New
Hampshire to Laredo, Texas. Informa
tion as to the destination of the Ver
mont National Guard will' be sent
later.'
General Wood announced, however.
that he would not be able immediately
The first test of the complete new But hose, laid from as far away as to carry out General Funston's direc-
T
1
'FIRE-TEST" OF
FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
fire equipment demonstrated its abil
ity to hurl immense quantities of wa
ter. Within two minutes after the
alarm had been sounded, water was
being directed into the building, which
to many, seemed doomed. Through
the crowds of spectators, who gathered
before the trucks from the outlying
stations had arrived, these mejnsters
came swinging into the fray.
Each of the four corners of the
block in which the Commercial is lo
cated, became a station. Three en
gines, including the new gasoline
driven pump, were used, each throw
ing two streams.
Not since Phoenix began to build
comparatively high buildings, has
there been a fire needing high water
pressure until that of last night. It
was early seen that it would be im
possible to make headway by directing
iose on the lower floors, and lines
were carried up the fire escapes and
fire ladders to the windows'giving into
$he second and third floor halls. From
the tops of the National Bank of Ari
zona and Ellison buildings, adjoining
the hotel on the other side of the alley,
streams were thrown 200 feet reach
ing the court, where the fire was hot
test.
First "Firs Lines"
Street car and automobile traffic was
halted all through the central part of
the city. For the first time in the his
tory of down-town fires, the police and
aids, established fire lines. Whenthe
building became well saturated, the
downpour made them unnecessary.
Adams street and guarded by police, I tions.
kept the vehicular traffic at a stand
still.
The Real Fire Test
Today, the American La France fire
General Wood expected to receive
word tonight that a brigade of Penn
sylvania infantry had started for the
border. With departure of the Penn
The first contingent of eastern slate
troops which have been mustered into
the federal service for Mexican duty.
arrived here tonight over the Nickel
plate line en route to the border.
The vanguard was composed of the
Fourteenth New York infantry regi
ment which arrived in three trains.
They are scheduled to arrive on the
border Saturday morning.
PRISONERS ARE
BEING ESCORTED
TO THE BORDER
AR1REDTRUGK
TINS TO MOVE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, June 28. President Wil
son's peremptory demand on General
Carranza for the release of the Amer
ican prisoners held in Chihuahua pen
itentiary today met with compliance.
Late this afternoon it was an
nounced from the commandancia in
Juarez . that a message had been
transmitted over the Mexican tele
graph wires which stated that the
twenty-three negToes of the Tenth
cavalry captured, at Carrizal, with
Urn H. Spillsbury. mormon scout, had
been removed from their prison.
The message added that the men,'
with their arms and accoutrements.
under heavy guard, had been placed
on a Mexican Central train bound for
Juarez, where they are expected to
arrive tomorrow morning.
The telegram conveying this news
was addressed to General George
Bell, Jr., commander of the El Paso
base. It was signed by General Ja
cinto Trevino, commander of the
TROOPS SOOTH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Juno 2S Coincident
with reports that Carmncista forces
have been concentrated wit'i a view
to holding the railroads of Chihua
hua !,i the event of hostilities with
the V'-i'tr.t ftnies, American military
authorities lire today were taking
steps :ui' would render them practi
at the office of the depot quflrtermas
tation .( 'loops.
A "rai'i (f twent'r-s?eT armored
mntoi tiucks. with f i:' I t tnk car:-, and
H1p.Hi' .rnoks. arrived tc,!iv an1 v.,i
assigned the loca":' r-:''ra.:e while
nt I ho cffk'e c the de t i ternns
ter it announced . '. ;wo k1 It -
lit. pal t:uck trains a;'3 ex e ',c,t tc ar
ivo from extern fa' ..ri.-s I ih.t:-.-..
Steps have been taken also looking
toward the commandeering of such
trucks as are available in Ei Paso
should occasion warrant.
Reports to military authorities on
the border indicate that General Persh
ing is retaining at each of his chair.
(Continued on Page Three)
(Continued on Page Four)
RELIEF CLAUSE OUT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June 28. An agree
ment under which the army draft reso
lution will be put through without any
provision for relief of dependent fami
lies of national guardsmen, drafted
into the federal service, was reached
late today by house and senate leaders.
A conference report eliminating en-
conferees had split was approved by
the house without opposition just be
fore adjournment tonight, and is ex
pected to be accepted by the senate to
morrow as a separate bill.
As finally agreed to, the resolution
authorizes the president to use as fed
eral soldfers, all members of the na
tional guard willing to take the re-
note, dispatched Sunday, making two
peremptory and distinct demands, is
received, there will be no decision on
whether President Wrilson shall lay the
crisis before congress.
News of the release of the pris
oners, received early tonight in press
dispatches, brought undisguised relief
to high officials. It was accepted as
correct, although no announcement
had come through official sources.
Moreover, it was assumed that Car
ranza impressed with the urgency of
the situation, had ordered the cap
tured cavalrymen started for the bor
der without waiting for his announce
ment of the action to reach Wash
ington. While it generally is conceded that
this move lessens tension and makes
the crisis less imminent, no one con
versant with the grave problem is los
ing sight of the fact that the all-important
question of Carranza's atti
tude toward the American expedition
across the border to protect the ter
ritory and citizens of the United
States from bandit outrages remains
unsettled. If the de facto govern
ment stands upon the orders to Gen.
Trevino to attack Pershing's men
when they move otherwise than to
ward the border, the situation actually
is just what it was before, except that
there is now a possibility of diplomatic
negotiation that did not exist while
the Americans were held prisoners in
Chihuahua.
The preparations of the L'nited
States for war will g6 steadily for
ward. There will be no interruption
of the rush of national guardsmen to
the border and General Funston will
continue disposition of the forces un
der his command as though he ex
pected an immediate attack from the
Mexicans.
The fact that Carranza has com
plied with one of the demands is ac
cepted by the more optimistic officials
here as an indication that he is striv
ing to prevent a break. Even though
he again should attempt to place all
blame for the Carrizal fight upon the
American officers and insist upon his
right to forcibly oppose any except
northward movements of American
troops, it is thought that possibly he
will state his position in such a man
ner as to make no further discussion
necessary.
During any negotiations, however,
the United States will insist upon,
freedom of movement of troops in
Mexico, and any attempt to interfere
with them will be met by such force as
tirely the relief provision on which the quired oath for federal service.
(Continued on Page Three)
Leave Camp Dunne
SPRING FI ELD, 111., June 28. The
first infantry regiment of the Illinois
National Guard, 1200 strong, and fairly
well equipped for field service, left
Camp Dunne tonight for service on the
Mexican border.
This contingent will be followed to
morrow by the second infantry and to
morrow night by the third and the
complete staff of the first brigade com
prised of these three regiments. The
first cavalry, the first battalion of
Hughes And Roosevelt Are
Now In Complete Accord
pump was to have been tested at the sylvania brigade the number of troops
Grand canal, before being turned over on their way to the border will be in
to the city. Instead, last night's per- j creased to approximately 20,000.
formunce will probably be considered I
its qualifying round. Established at
the corner of First street and WJash-
iiiB ion, mis motor, nanuiea by G. N.
Illinois Boys Start
CHICAGO, June 28. The quarter-
piaster's department, central depart-
(Continued on Page Three)
n
Moshier. the factory expert, began I ment said that the first Illinois infan
turning out its two 500-gallon-per- j try which entrained at Springfield for
minute streams within three minutes , San Antonio tonight was scheduled to
after the alarm had been sounded, and arrive at Its destination Saturday
kept it up without a hitch. I night.
Tribute Is Paid
Gomez When Body
Reaches Saltillo
History Of The Commercial
Hotel; An Old Institution
The Commercial hotel was built In and the Lemon, a rambling adobe
the middle eighties by the present ' structure with a central court, on the
owner, George H. N. Luhrs who for a 'site now occupied by the Gold hotel
long time before that had owned the at the corner of Washington and
ground on which the hotel stands and Third streets. In the early nineties
most of the rest of the real estate several lodging houses sprang up but
thereabouts. It was the first preten- there Was no other hotel of any size
tious hotel In Phoenix. Though It has until the Ford was built In 1895. A
since been improved and modernized, year, later the construction of the first
the last time ubout five years ago, its Hotel Adams which was burned some
Outward form has been changed only six years ago was begun. That was
by the eastern extension on the lower I replaced a year later by the present
floor of which is occupied by the ' steel and concrete structure. About a
ware rooms of Talbot & Hubbard. i year ago the handsome fire proof Ho
For many years there were only tel Jefferson across the street from ,the
two hotels in Phoenix, the Commercial j Commerccial was thrown open.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, June 28. Charles E.
Hughes, republican presidential nom
inee, announced tonight at the end of
an interview with Theodore Roosevelt,
which lasted for more than two hours
.After the interview, Mr. Hughes ; would support him with the utmost
emerged with Colonel Roosevelt, es- heartiness.
corting the former president to his ' Colonel Roosevelt said that Mr.
automobile and warmly shaking his ' Hughes states he much desired the
hand as he bade him good bye. "When Colonel to aid in the campaign and
the automobile moved away, Mr. I it was agreed that in the fall Mr.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEXICO CITY', June 28. The body
of General Felix Gomez, who was in
command' of the Mexicans in the battle
with the Americana, near Carrizal, was
received with honors at Saltillo, a pub
lic manifestation of regret being held.
Interment was at Gomez Faras, his
birthplace. (
El Centro Mexicano,' a self-styled
"Americanist International association"
commemorated today the ninetieth an
niversary of the constitution of the
Pan-Americanist congress convened by
Simon Bolivar in June, 1826.
A certain importance is attached to
this celebration in view of the present
Mexico-American crisis. Gen. Marcelo
Caraveo has arrived at Chihuahua
from the United States. Notwithstand
ing that he is antagonistic to the pres
ent government he has availed himself
of the law of amnesty recently pro
claimed by Carranza and has offered
his services to the country.
Railroad traffic between Mexico
City and Torreoh, it ia stated, will be
re-established at an early date.
and a half, "that he and the former
president were in complete accord."
Mr. Hughes issued the following
statement: "I was very much pleased
with Colonel Roosevelt's letter of in
dorsement and he has expressed, him
self in a very kindly way with re
spect to my telegram to the progres
sive committee. I wanted, to talk with
Colonel Roosevelt fully, and asked
him to dine with me so that we might
have that opportunity. He dined with
me tonight and we had a very de
lightful interview. He talked very
fully over all matters and are in com
plete accord." It is understood that
Colonel Roosevelt told Mr. Hughes he
would co-operate heartily with him any
of his plans even to the extent of
making a speaking tour if Mr. Hughes
so desired.-
Colonel Roosevelt called on Mr.
Hughes at the nominee's invitation
and they remained together for more
than two and a half hours. A crowd
had gathered in the lobby of the hotel
where Mr. Hughes is staying wjien
Colonel Roosevelt arrived. The former
president, lifted his hat and bowed
then hurried into an elevator which
took him to Mr. Hughes' appartment,
tho parlor of which had been fitted
up as a dining room.
The republican nominee and Colo
nel Roosevelt dined alone. The wai
ter who served them was barred from
the room except when summoned by
, a call button.
j Roosevelt looked around and, wav
ing his hand to Mr. Hughes, said:
"Good bye and the best possible
luck."
Colonel Roosevelt when seen later
before his departure for his home at
Oyster Bay, said that he and Mr.
Hughes had had a most satisfactory
talk and that ho was really greatly
pleased. The former president made
it plain that he agrees with the at
titude Mr. Hughes has taken toward
the questions at issue in the campaign
Roosevelt should make three or four
speeches for Mr. Hughes.
Former President William H. Taft
said tonight that he was willing to
work side by side with Mr. Roosevelt
to aid in the election of Mr. Hughes.
Asked if he would be willing to speak
from the same platform, as Roosevelt,
he said:
. "I am for Hughes. I would nbt let
my personal feelings interfere. If
such speaking arrangements were
made I would act as a private in the
and he assured the nominee that he ranks and obey orders.
Claim Tailscher Innocent
Tool of Franz von Papen
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i whose confession. Tauscher, Wolf Von
. NEW Y'ORK, June 28 That Captain j Igel and others were indicted, was de
Hans Tauscher, former German army 1 nounced by Tauscher"s lawyer as a
officer on tiral here, charged with com- "despicable scoundrel"
plicity in the alleged plot to blow up' A number .of character witnesses.
the Welland canal in September, 1914, 1 among them several persons of Eng
was made the innocent tool of Captain , lish birth, .testified in Tauscher's be
Franz Von Papen, recalled German half. Robert Dorman, a photographer
military attache in the later's foolish I of El Paso, Tex., told of meeting Von
desire to serve his country, was the j Der Goltz at the Mexican border,
gist of the defense outlined today by : where the latter was "acting as a spy
Tauscher's counsel, Herbert C. Smyth, j for the Villa forces and was sentenced
It is expected Tauscher will go on ! to be shot."
the witness stand in his own behalf! The witness added that Von. Der
when the trial is resumed tomorrow. Goltz "did not have a good reputation
Horst Von Der Goltz, the man Upon 1 for veracity."
