Bending Every Effort to Get Pennsylvania Tro
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 149
RELEASED PRISONERS ARRIVE IN U. S.;
DANGER OF IMMEDIATE BREAK AVERTED
SITU A 7VOA LESS
CRITICAL
NOTE AR
Special Agent Rodgers Sends Official Announcement of
Carranza's Order For Freeing 23 Captives; Expects
to Be Handed Reply Any Moment; U.S. Will Proceed
to Safeguard Border and Pursue BandHs, Regard
less of Any Action Mexican Commanders May Take
EASING OF CRISIS HAS NO EFFECT
ON MOBILIZATION OF GUARDSMEN
Will Go Ahead and Prepare For Any Emergency; Mexico
Must Establish Firm Military Control; While It Is
Lacking, President Is Determined by Force, if Neces
sary, to Employ Army to Insure Safety; Mexican Am
bassador-Designate Issues Statement
By Associated Press
El Paso, June 29.—Twenty-three negro troopers of the Tenth
cavalry and Lem Spillsburv, Mormon scout, captured by the Mexicans
at Carrizal, and confined in the Chihuahua penitentiary, were
brought to the border at noon today to be turned over to American
military authorities.
A shout of laughter rose from the thousands of Mexicans who
had gathered to witness the arrival as the negroes filed from the
special train. The prisoners were dressed in the scantiest and most
nondescript garb. Some had on only trousers. One wore a shirt
while a towel encircled his waist. Heads were decorated with
bandanas.
Glad to Get Back
All the troopers were worn and drawn from their experience,
and all were serious save one who wore a broad smile. This one
negro made himself the impromptu spokesman for his fellows.
"We sure arc glad to get back," he said.
The troopers refused to discuss the Carrizal fight, their im
prisonment or their return to the border.
"We are soldiers, not plain citizens," they said. "We will have
to report to our superior officers and receive their instructions."
Washington, June 29.—Official announcement of Carranza's
order for the release of the American troopers captured at Carrizal
reached the State Department early to-day from Special Agent
Rodgers at Mexico City. When he sent the message last night Mr.
Rodgers expected to be handed a reply to the American note at any
moment.
Danger of an immediate break with the de facto government
had been relieved last night by press dispatches saying the prisoners
had been started for the border from Chihuahua City. Until Car
ranza replies to the demand for a statement of his attitude toward the
American expedition in Mexico to protect the border, however, the
crisis is only less imminent than it was before.
Will Pursue Bandits, Regardless
High officials of the administration let it be known that the
United States would proceed with its military operations to ade
quately safeguard its citizens and territory and would continue to
pursue bandits in Mexico whenever there was hope of overtaking
them, regardless of any action Mexican military commanders may
take.
Secretary Baker carried to the White House early a copy of
Consul Garcia's message to General Bell at El Paso stating that the
men were enroute to the border last night. Soon afterward came
the dispatch from Mr. Rodgers. Eliseo Arredondo, the Mexican
ambassador-designate, was advised by Foreign Minister Aguilar in
Mexico City of his government's action.
No Effect on Guard Mobilization
It was apparent about the War and State Departments to-day
that release of the prisoners had made the situation less critical.
It had no effect, however, on efforts to speed up the mobilization of
the National Guard along the international line and to furnish an
adequate supply of war material to meet any emergency.
Even should the Mexican reply dis
[Othf? Mexican >fw« on Paicea 4, <I.J
THE WEATHER,
For HarrlsburK nnd vlelnltyi Fair
to-night and probnhly Friday)
niiulrratt temperature.
For Kastrrn Pennsylvania: Fair to
night and probably Friday) not
much change In temperature;
light, variable minds.
River
All streams of the Susquehanna
river system will fall slowly ex
cept (lie loner part of the North
Branch nnd the main river, which
ivlll rise slightly or remain near
ly stationary to-night nnd heicln
to fall Friday. A stage of shout
S.T feet Is indicated for Harris
burg Friday morning.
General Condition*
Pressure is relatively high over
nearly all the eastern half of the
country and low over the west
ern half, except along the coast
of Northern California, where
high pressure persists. The center
of the low pressure area In the
West Is still located near Great
Salt I.ake.
Temperatures are about the sea
sonable average over most of the
country, except In the Pacific and
Northwest States, where It con
tlDues cool.
Temperaturei 8 a. m.. M.
Sunt Rises, 4:30 a. M.i seta, 7>87
p. m.
Moon i New noon, to-morrow, Bilfl
a. m.
Rlvrr Stagei 5 Ji feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Hlrtmt temperature, £2.
I<owei«« temperature, 67.
Mean temperature, 74.
Normal temperature. 73.
BY CARRIERS 6 CENTS A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
I claim any hostile intention and with
draw orders to Carranza military com
j manders offensive to the United States
the border patrol would be maintained
at the strength now contemplated
while any danger from bandits con
tinued.
To free itself from the menace of an
army mobilized on its northern fron
[Continued on Page 1]
Telegraph Films of
Gretna Camp Today
at Victoria Theater
The 1 olograph's pictures of the
Mount Gretna camp, made by J. n.
Buchanan, of the Universal Animated
Weekly Service, are being shown to
day at the Victoria Theater and will
be repeated to-morrow. Ten per cent,
or the proceeds of Uie two days will
lie devoted to the Telegraph's fund for
the assistance ol the families of sol
diers. The Telegraph makes no money
whatsoever front these pictures. it
liad them made merely that the people
of Harrishurg might have an oppor
tunity to sec their friends on the field
at Gretna.
The films are clear and Interesting.
Nobody who wants a glimpse of Camp
Brumbaugh should miss them. They
are fully up to the best of the Univer
sal Animated Weeklj pictures and
there Is nearly 1,200 feet of them.
A look through the eyes of the
camera on the screen gives the be
holder a very good idea of Just what
Is happening at Gretna. The pictures
are historic and will be preserved.
Aside from the KlghUi Regiment, pic
tures arc also shown of the Tenth,
Sixteenth and Eighteenth BcglmenU.'
HARRISBURG, PA., THURSDAY EVENING, JUNE 29, 1916.
MACHINE GUN BATTERY SUCH AS MOWED DOWN V. S. TROOPS
MEXICAN JUACHIWfc GUN TROOP. ©//vj-A /«5*A» &£J<V'C£.
Here is a Mexican machine gun troop, with their spit fire guns set up for action. It was the effective work of these
machine guns used by the Mexicans when they ambushed the. American troops at Carrizal, that almost wiped out troops
K and C of the Tenth Cavalry.
HEAVY FIGHTING
RAGES ALONG ALL
EUROPEAN LINES
German Ranks Decimated by
Machine Guns in Attack
on Verdun
BRITISH ARE ACTIVE
Continue Artillery Fire and
Trench Raids; Teutons Claim
to Have Russians Stopped
Heavy fighting in other sectovs of
the front has not caused the intensity
of the struggle nt Verdun to diminish.
Another powerful attack was delivered
last night by the Germans near the
Thiaumont redoubt, north of the cita
del. Like the preceding assault, this
was checked, the Paris war office de
clares, by the French artillery and
[Continued on Page 11]
Sir Roger Casement Is
Found Guilty of High
Treason in Irish Revolt
By Associated Press
London, June 29.—Sir Roger Case
ment was found guilty to-day of high
treason. The ending of the historic
trial came shortly before 4 o'clock this
afternoon, when the jury, which had
been out less than an hour, brought in
its verdict against the Irish knight.
To-day's session of the court was
given over to the arguments of counsel
and the charge to the Jury. Sir Roger's
chief counsel, Alexander Sullivan, who
collapsed in jourt yesterday, was un
able to appear to-day and his argu
ment was taken up by Artemus Jones,
assistant counsel for the defense. The
attorney general, Sir Frederick Smith,
summed up the case for the prose
cution, after which the lord chief Jus
tice delivered his charge.
After Sir Roger had been sentenced,
Daniel J. Bailey, the private soldier
who had been held as his accomplice,
was placed in the dock. The chief Jus
tice directed the jury to return a ver
dict of not guilty and Bailey was dis
charged.
Sir Roger received the death sen
tence with the utmost composure,
smiling at friends in the court room.
His statement, which occupied a half
hour, was a plea for the right to be
tried by Irish and for Irish Nation
ality.
WIFEBEATERS TO BE CHAINED
Kansas City, Mo., June 29. Judge
J. H. Brady, police Judge of Kansas
City, Kan., was granted permission
yesterday to erect a post on a corner
of the main business district to which
men convicted of beating their wives
could be chained for any number of
days the court fixed.
SUBMARINE VICTIMS LAND
By Associated Press
Palma, Majorca. Juno 2 9.—Twenty
five men of tho crew of the steamer
Pino, of Genoa, which wai shelled and
sunk by a submarine on Tuesday, have
arrived at Port Hahon, Mlnoco, in the
ship's boats.
MAKE YOUR PATRIOTISM
PRACTICAL; GIVE TO THOSE
WHO ARE LEFT BEHIND
Harrisburg soldiers going to the
front will feel much more comfortable
when they know that those dependent
upon them—wives, children, aged
parents or others—will not suffer dur
ing >heir absence. The Telegraph has
already cajled attention to this im
portant matter and some steps have
been taken to create a sufficient fan 4
for this purpose, Philadelphia has al
ready raised thousands of dollars. Wil
liamsport reports $12,000 thus far;
Geneva, K. Y., has subscribed $20,000,
and other cities and towns are engaged
'in the good work. Harrisburg must
not fall short in this work. Subscrip
HUGHES-T. R. IN
COMPLETE ACCORD
Candidate Smiling, Colonel
Happy Following Two
Hours' Love Feast
New York, June 29.—The confiden
tial love feast exclusively partaken of
by Charles E. Hughes and Theodore
Roosevelt lasted two hours last even
ing and the walls of the Astor Hotel
never trembled.
What .momentous exchanges of con
fidence may have passed behnd the
closed doors of suite 802 of the hotel
between the Republican nominee and
the man who had hoped to win that
[Continued on Page 8]
SANE FOURTH IS
GOVERNOR'S PLEA
Urges That Day Be Spent in
Way Appropriate to the
Times
Governor Brumbaugh to-day issued
the following appeal for the observ
ance of the Fourth of July in a "safe
and sane" manner and In a way ap
propriate to the situation in which the
nation at tl\is time finding itself, add
inr a prayer for the soldiers in camp
and on the border that they may be
ktpl in safety and for an effective
pi cparedness that may Keep the
country in, "permanent peace and
prosperity:'*
"The Safety First Federation of
America and the Board of Recreation
of Philadelphia have Joined in the
suggestion that official recognition be
given to the movement for a safe and
sane Fourth of July throughout this
[Continued on Page 7]
Bird Flying Into Autoist's
Face Causes Accident
An early bird en route down Front
street for its morning worm swerved
a trifle too late as Alfred R. Shaffer,
auto dealer, of 606 North Eighteenth
street, swung out Muench street this
morning and the bird volplaned di
rectly Into Shaffer's face.
That is why Shaffer lost control of
his wheel for a second or two—Just
long enough to plunge into some newly :
chopped up asphalt upon which a city i
repair gang was working. Taylor How- :
ard, colored, was knocked down and I
severely bruised and John R. Scott, I
white, was knocked against the curb- .
ins, Neither were seriously injured. I
tions thus far received are as follows:
The Telefrraph SIOO.OO
J. W. Bowman 50.00
David Kaufman 100.00
Andrew Care 1-Jalsey 1.00
l*rcparuig for Work
The Harrisburg Chapter of the
Pennsylvania Women's Division for
Rational Preparedness this morning
sent to the printer cards which will
be forwarded to the captains of each
of the three local companies In the
field. Each card will be in blank and
every man in the company will be
[Continued on Pawe 4]
DEMAND APOLOGY
FROM AUSTRIA
U. S. Demands Punishment of
Petrolite Commander
and Indemnity
Washington, D. C., June 29.—The
American rejoinder to Austria regard
ing the Austrian submarine attack on
(he American si earner Petrolite, made
public late yesterday by the State De
partment, describes the act as "a de
liberate insult to the flag of the United
Stales and an invasion of the rights of
American citizens," and requests a
prompt apology, punishment of the
[Continued on Page 11]
READING READY
TO MOVE TROOPS
Some of Men at Gretna Will Go
to Border Over New York
Central
While most of the troops at Mt.
Gretna will be sent to the border over
the Pennsylvania railroad to Pitts
burgh, and from there to Cincinnati
and St Louis, a large number will
start south over the Philadelphia and
Reading railway Company. This route
will be from Mt. Gretna to Newberry
Junction near Willlamsport where
trains will be transferred to the New
fContinued on Page -I]
Motorcyclist, Impaled on
Wagon Tongue, Meets Death
Speeding up a steep hill three miles
south of Middletown, Harry Bates, of
Riverside, son of Robert Bates, a
trucker, was almost instantly killed
when th«i motorcycle which he was
riding crashed into a wagon driven by
Ferris Heisey, of Elizabethtown. Har
ry Baer. who was ric.ing with Bates,
was seriously injured, and brought to
this city, hut the city and county au
thorities are unable to locate him.
The tongue of the wagon passed
through Bates' abdomen, but the man,
according to Heisey, stood up in the
roail and spoke a few words before he
died. Coroner Ecklnger wITI-not hold
a postmortal or an inquest, and stated
at noon to-day that death was acci
dental. and that he believes Bates lost
control of the cycle. He is Investigat
ing to-day and endeavoring to learn
the whereabouts of Baer, whose in
juries are cot known.
16 PAGES
SECOND BRIGADE
WELL LEAVE ON
HEELS OF FIRST
Every Effort Being Made to Get
Another Detachment of
N. G. P. Ready
ENGINEERS ENTRAINED
Spend Weary Night in Cars;
Engine Has Steam Up,
Already For Word
By .Associated Press
Camp Brumbaugh. Mt. Gretna, Pa.,
June 29. Every effort is being bent
to get the Second Brigade of Pennsyl
vania infantry ready for departure for
the Mexican border within the nejtt
4 8 hours. This brigade is to follow
the First which expects to get away
to-day. The First Brigade is com
posed of Philadelphia regiments and
was delayed by medical examinations
and recruiting. The Fourth Brigade
will follow the Second. These bri
gades have been treated against ty
phoid and smaJlpox.
A weary group of youths composing
Company A of the engineer battalion
of Scranton and Company B of Phila
delphia, are lying in a completely
made-up troop train on the tracks
which flank the encampment site,
waiting through nerve-racking strain
their orders to depart for the front.
Sleep in Crowded Cars
A score of times they have been
told their train will leave within an
hour. So undetermined were the se
ries of orders which flew around the
camp last night that the entire battal
ion slept on the crowded trains ready
to depart the instant the directing
heads of the camp issue the long de
layed order. When the engineers do
leave, which is now promised officials
[Continued on Pa#e 4]
!r** "Tft'— " r^V "i 1 if^|V11 »fci
$
INCENDIARY FIRES IN EL PASO 1
El Paso, June 29.—Two fires in the downtown district
to-day causing a tot -1 lo i of $75,000, were attributed to in- £
I 1 cendiaries. Rumors spread of a plot by Mexicans were I
j i given no official basis. J
j MORMON SCOUT GIVES INTERVIEW f
< | El Paso, June 29. —In an interview with General Gon- iF
I zales, Lem Spillsbury declared he did not know who fired j?
i the first shot at Carrizal. He said that after the second \ »
conference between Captain Boyd and General Gome;:, when f
j I
j compandor r.nd it is for you to obey." Spillsbury '.eclared
Jji
! plained that when the expedition left camp it was coir: M
posed of 85 men but that at Santa Maria, ten wc:c sent br.c'
**
to the main force with a wagon train. '*
ITALIANS CONTINUE TO ADVANCE f
Rome, June 20.—The Italian advance continues on the
!Trentino fron t . The official report of the day says that in rjj
the Arsa Valley the Italians stormed Fort Mattassone and JL
carried the ridge of Monte Trappola, j
RUSS TAKE 11,000 MORE PRISONERS
Petrograd, June 29.—Russian troops fighting in Vol- £
hynia and Galicia yesterday took prisoner 221 officers and H
10,285 men, says the official statement issued to-day by the v»
Russian War Department. jp
VIOLENT FIGHTING ON WESTERN FRONT f •
Berlin, June 29, via London. The fighting on the
western front attained proportions of considerable violence f
, at various points yesterday and last night the war office an- m|
; nounced to-day but attacks of the British and ' ere »|
', repulsed everywhere. A
* 1 CARRANZA MOBILIZING CAVALRY j?
Columbus, N. M., June 29. According to reports re-
< ■ ceived here 10,000 Carranza cavalry have been mobilized T
I #■
I at Bustillo on the Mexican Northwestern Railroad. Twelve H
< I thousand men are at Villa Ahumada, 2,000 are at Guzman %
and General P. Elias Calles of Sonora is moving large .jf
i ( bodies of troops toward the Sonora-Chihuahua border.
' f
MARRIAGE LICENSES
< CSllnor George, Mteel ton, mid Merl Pelov, city. )■
Joorph Rovak. Steelton, anil Marie Plealtc, city. II
Jevfte Alfred l.ulxild, Nellii'Krove. aud Knima Rlanrh Paul, city, 1
Jnxepli 11. Ktaaenakl, Hrcanler, and Harriet K. Trle*t, Oberlln.
1 . M 4 Mary M. E. Stuck, M#vwllle.
Wlnllleld J. Hernehler and Kdlth V. F.namlnger, city. i>
CITY EDITION
STATE HIGHWAY
FORCES TO HELP*
ON GRETNA ROADS
Governor Orders Department
to Assist Military Authori
ties
GET BUSY AT ONCE
Big Force of Men and Machin
ery Ordered For Concen
tration at Camp
At the direction of Governor Brum
baugh the forces of the State Highway
Department have been ordered to
Mount Gretna to place the highways
in and about Camp Brumbaugh in
condition for the ad.iutant genera! s
department. While the Stale High
way Department has no highways in
the Mount Gretna camp, the Governor
determined that the State Highway
Department should come to the assist
ance of the military branch of the
government and repair the roads.
Chief Engineer W. D. Uhler and
Second Deputy State Highway Com
missioner George H. Biles went to
Mount Gretna to-day to prepare for
the starting Df the work, which is te
begin to-morrow morning. A force of
road machines, scrapers, rollers and
men has .been ordered to concentrate
at the camp and Friday and Saturday
will be spent in shaping the roads,
rolling them and placing them in the
best condition possible. Caretaker*
will be assigned to each section of
road in and about the camp and drags
will be furnished so that the roads caa
be taken care of immediately after
any rainstorms.
