VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 191(5.
NUMBER 53.
All-Important Question of First Chief's Attitude
i
Toward American Expedition Across the Bor
der Remains Unsettled, However United
States Will Continue Preparations for War j
Powerful Influences, It Is Said, Prompted;
Carranza to Give Up Prisoners Reply to
American Note Expected Soon.
"Washington, Juno 2. An Immediate
fcreak between tile, United Stales and
the de facto government of Mexico has
been .averted by compliance with the
.Amerlcnn demand for lo'oaso ot til
twenty-three troopers captured In tho
fight at Cnrrl7.nl.
Whether n state of war has been pre
vented or meiely postponed no one hero
would nttcmpt to pay to-night. OTicinl
Information as to the attitude of General
Carranza was Larking. I'ntll his 10
pponse to Secretary Lansing's note,
dlsnatched Sunday, making two peremp
tory and distinct demands, is received
theie will be 110 decision on whether
President Wilson shall lay Ibo crisp: be
fore Congress.
Nows of the release of the prisoners,
received early to-night in press de
ppatehes, brought undisguised letlef to
lilgh ofllclals. It was accepted as cor
rect, nlthough no announcement had
como through olllclal sources. More
over, it was assumed that Carranza,
Impressed with the urgency of tho sit
uation, had oidered the captured cav
alrymen started for tho border without
waiting for his announcement of the
pc'lon to reach Washington.
While it is generally conceded that
this move lessens tension and makes
the crisis less imminent, no one con
versant with tho grave problem is los
ing sight of the fact that the all-Important
question of Carranza's attitude
toward the American expedition across
the border to protect the territory and
rltlzens of the United States from ban
dit ouliagcs remains unsettled. If the
lie facto government stands upon the
riders to General Trevlno to nttnek
Pershing's men when they move other
wise than toward the. border, the situ
ation actually Is just what it was be
fore, except that there now Is a possi
bility of diplomatic negotiation that
did not exist while the American:) were
held prisoners at Chihuahua.
The preparations of tho United
fltates for war will go stendlly for
wnrd. There will be no Interruption of
the rush of natlonnl guardsmen to the
border and General Funston will con
tinue disposing the forces under his
c mmand as if he expected an immedi
ate attack from the Mexicans.
The fact that Carranza has complied
with one of the demands Is accepted
by the more optimistic ofllclnls here as
tin Indication that he Is striving to pre
vent a break. Even if he again should
nttcmpt to throw all blame for the I
Cnrrlz.al fight upon the American oil!- I
cers and Insist upon his right to oppose ,
forcibly any except northward move- I
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
MIDDLEBURY
The nnnunl rr port of school district
-No. 4, whi' li comprises MIddlebury vil
lage, was distributed Friday. From tho
treasurer's icport It Is seen that tho
receipts for the past your wore 122,518.27.
There Is a balance In tho treasury of
720 SS against a balam e of Jl.R2rt.43 tlv
previous year. Tho estimated receipts for
the coming year are: From tuitions H,l,
from Stnte school tax from sale cf
books tGfiO. Tho estimated expenses are:
Salaries, $12,2e0, genreal expenses, $l,M0;
Interest, J1.700; a total of ?18,700; leaving
I13,2.r.0 to bo raised by taxation. From
Principal Hnrilman's report It Is leurned
that the staff of teachers for tho next
Jriar will bo the same as for this year,
x"ppt In tho JSngllsh department, In
which a new teacher will have to be
obtained 111 pUee of Miss Agnew, ro
Flned Ono more teacher hns been added
to take tho pluco of some of the teachers
fjrnlshed by tho college nnd for this
jjosltion Helen Cnrrigan has been
engaged.
There was a half-day session of Ad
dison county court Saturday and tho
taking of testimony for tho defense
In tho case of Arthur C. Darnard vs
Itlchaid H. Leonard was continued
until noon. Tho testimony was not
completed before the recess, as had
been hoped, and nt 1 1 : f, 5 o clock a ro
ress was taken until two o'clock Mon
day. Prof. Avery K. Lambert went to
Proctor Saturday to conduct tho morn
Jng services In tho Unlon Church thoro
Hunduy. Robert II. Forbes of Hur
llngton, Alvnh II. Stevens of Lincoln
nnd John R. Smiley of Now London,
Conn., are visiting In town. Mrs. Wil
liam H. Jialdwln wns very III Saturday.
IJnnlo.1 Adams, who has been for sev
eral months employed In tho Register
olllco hore, has completed his engage
ment and left town Saturday with the
Intention of going to the Mexican bor
der. Theio Is a large number of ex
hibits on view In the Ilcnedlct store
In the Jlattell block, Merchants row,
of work dime, by tho pupils of tho high
pchool and grades soven and eight
of the graded school In tho manual
tialnlug course during the past year.
4ome of tho exhibits show especially
ments of American troops, It Is
thought that possibly he will state his
position In audi a way as to make, fur
ther discussion necessary.
During any negotiations, however, the
United States will Insist upon freedom
of movement of the troops In Mexico, and
any attempt to Intel fero with them will
bo met by mich fence as is necessary. Tills
will apply too, to any period of driav oc
casioned by attempts to arrange media
tion or arbitration.
The possibility of Latin-American ofcrs
of mediation In the crisis aaln was wide- j
ly discussed to-night. Ignaclo C.ilderon,
minister from Bolivia, will make .1 second
call upon Secretary Lansing to-morrow
;to discuss the subject. lie will ende-vor
to ascertain for the benefit of himself and
bis colleagues whether tender of good of
fices by the South and Central Ameil' an
republics would bo entertained at bis
time. Tho minister said after his first
conference witli Secretary Lansing on
Monday that lie understood the Uni'nl
States to be unwilling even to discuss the
subject of medlntlon or arbltrnll n while
the captured American troopeis remain
ed in custody.
It Is known that powerful influences
hnvo been brought to bear on Carranza
In the past few days to make him at
least turn over tho American prisoners.
Prominent Mexicans In the United States
as well as American bankers and bus)
ness Interests with Influence In Mexican
nffnirs have flooded the first chief with
messages. They all sent him the same
warnliig-llmt the United States govern
ment meant business and that to hold
tho prisoner" would mean war.
Secretary Baker wnlted at tho war de
partment until late to-night for a re
port from C.eneral Funston on General
Trevino's announcement that he had
sent the cavalrymen to .luaiez to be set
free. Ho finally went homo without the (
report. President Wilson nnd t-ecret.ary
Lansing also retired without hearing of
tho news except through newspaper
correspondents.
The President now expects to fllle an
engagement which he almost had decided
to cancel, to address the Associated Ad
vertising Clubs of the World In conven
tion at Philadelphia to-morrow afternoon.
Unless the note from Carranza which
should arrive early to-morrow is of such
a nature as to change his plans ho will
leave for Pliiladelphl at noon.
The last word from Special Agent Rod-
gers at .Mexico iuy, a message uami
yesternny and receive,! cany u-uhj . sum
he uxpeted to no handed the note to-day.
Ho gnve no intimation of what might be
Its contents.
lino workmnnshlp, considering the age
of tho artificers. All of them show
excellent work for those who have
attended tho course. George Wooster
has gone to Burlington. Miss Janettc
Graham, who has been trimmer at tho
Geo sisters' millinery store tho past
season, has gono to her home In Car
bondale, Pa., where she will
spend a few weeks. Mrs. Carrlo
lladlcy of Bridgeport, Conn., is nt
lier homo on South Pleasant street.
Mr. and Mrs. W. G, Pennimnn have
gone to Ticondorogn, N. Y to spend
week. Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Munroe,
who have been visiting nt the homo
of his mother, Mrs. M. A. Munroe, of
Seminary streot for a week, have re
turned to Lako Forest and Chicago,
111. O. II. Cushman has returned from
Ticondorogn, N. Y., whore ho has spent
tho past week with hiu daughter. Mrs.
Mortimer V. Drake. Mrs. M. L. Til-
den, who has spent tho winter nnd
spring in i.roou.y,,, .-
ed and opened her home. Mrs. Ber-
mini cavanaugn. who imt i--. ii r,.u..u-
lug the past month at the homo of her
purfiiiH, .nr. anil -urs. imiuii i-tuiuii,
has returned to Saratoga, N. Y. Mrs.
Joseph Cdrron has returned from Rut
land, whero she hns spent a week.
Mrs, A, L. Janes, who has spent a week
with her mother. Mrs. M. L. Tllden,
has returned to Brooklyn, N. Y. Miss
Thendora Ciane, who Is a teacher In
the public schools at Plalnvlllc, Ohio,
. iu speno ner vncauon wiiu
" V , 1 h , ' urn"0,
....... ....o mvvu irumvni ill IIIO HlUr-
riagu at Fort Orchaid, Wash.. Juno 7
of Herbert Smith, youngest son of Mr.
and Mrs. A. B. Smith of this vlllngo,
to Miss Inabold Hlllls of Seattle,
Wash. Mr. Smith Is on Die United
Stntes steamship Saratoga, and Is stn
tloned at Bicmcrton, Wash. Mrs.
Leon J. Vi'iiw has gone for a week's
visit to relatives and friends In Ben
nlngtoii and to Plttsrlold, Mass. Miss
Danycau, who hns been visiting nt the
homo of her pnrnnts, Mr, and Mis.
Haitwell Danyenu, In tho cast part of
tho town for a fow dnys, hns returned,
to camoriuge, r, l, is. h. ronton has
gono to Manchester, whoro ho will
visit lelatlvcs and friends for a fow
dnys. Miss Ida Dragon was taken tf
tho Fanny Allen hospital Friday evo-
(Coiitliiurd on Pnge two.)
PRISONERS REACH
JUAREZ TO-DAY
San Antonio, Tex., Juno 28.
General Funston received
to-night a report from Brigadier-General
George Bell, Jr.,
at El Paso, which stated Gen
eral Bell had heen notified by
Mexican Consul Garcia that
the American prisoners tal:en
at Carrizal now are on the
way north to Juarez and prob
ably would arrive there to
morrow morning.
According to the report
Consul Garcia had received
word from General Jaci)to
Trevino that the American
prisoners with their arms and
accoutrements, were to be de
livered at once to the Ameri
can authorities.
The report was forwarded
immediately to Washington
by General Funston.
CHARLES E. HUGHES
HAVE CONFERENCE
Ex-Moose Leader Tells Republi
can Candidate That He Will
Heartily Co-operate with Him
in Any of His Plans. '
TWO IN COMPLETE ACCORD
The Colonel Agrees That in the
Fall He Will Make Three or
Four Speeches in the Presi
dential Campaign Visit Last
ed Two and a Half Hours.
New York, Juno Charles V..
Hughes, lepubllcan presidential nom
inee, announced to-night at the end of
nn Interview with Theodore Roosevelt
which lasted for more than two hours
nnd a half, that he and the former
president wero In "complete accord."
Mr. Hughes issued the following state
ment: "I was very much pleased with Colonel
Roosevelt's letter of indorsement and
be has expressed himself In a very kind
ly way with respect to my telegram to
the progressive committee. I wanted to
tall: with Colonel Roosevelt fully with
respect to the Issues of the campaign
and asked him to dlno with me so that
we might have that opportunity. Ho
dined with me to-night and wo had a
very dollghtful Interview, Wo talked
very fully over all mutters and are In com
plete accord. The evening has been n
vory pleasant ono."
It Is understood tliot Colonel Roose
velt told Mr. Hughes he would co-op-
crato heartily with him in any of his
plans even to tho extent of making a
spoalting tour If Mr. Hughes so de
sired. Colonel Roosevelt called upon Mr.
Hughes nt the nominee's Invitation nnd
they remained together for more thnn
two nnd a half hours. A crowd had
gatheied In the lobby of the hotel
whe.ru Mr. Hughes Is stnying when
Colonel Roosevelt arrived.
Colonel Roosevelt, when seen Later
before his departure for his home at
Oyster Bay, said that he and Mr.
HuhXh had had a most satisfactory
, tn,i nnd t,mt ho wnH ,.,. y KrPntly
. . ,,.... ,.pS,ir.t lnn,i i,
pl(iln t)ml )(o n(?rp(,H wUh (in (lU1Ul(ln
Mr. Hughes has taken toward the
questions nt Issue In the campaign and
ho assuied the nominee that he would
support him with tho utmost heaitl
ness.
Colonel Roosevelt said that Ml
Hughes stated lie much desired the col
one to aid in tile campaign, and It was
j vclt Hlloll,, lnu,. t,iei, or four
'speeches for Mr. Hughes.
VERMONT RASEHALL
ASSO. SCHEDULE
Sennon OpeiiN July I ultli (inmiw nt
lltirllngloii nnd lliirre
Montpcller. June 'JS, The Vermont
State; Baseball League will open Tues
day, July I, with games nt Harro and
Burlington, Montpcller to play Burin
I, A. C, and Rutland to bo the oppon
ents of the Queen City aggregation.
The schedule, subject to a number of
changes to Insuio all four teams a sat
; IsfactorV share of Saliiiday games, wiih
drawn up at a meeting of the league
directors Tuesday evening at a meeting
In this city. H. S. Perkins of Burling
ton was elected president, W. F. Byrne
of Rutland vice-president. C. Do F.
COL ROOSEVELT AND
ilary
K'lt
and A. Broggl of Barro trensuier.
unlay, July K, Ilarre will play at
land and Montpcller at IStirllngton,
Each team will play 25 games and tho
season will end September 1(1, unless
postponed games necessitate a few
games later in that month. Tho cor
rected schedule will bo announced Sat
u rdny.
SENTENCED FOR THEFTS.
Henry Itejor (lets Tmii to Two nnd
llnlf Yenrn tit Itiillnad.
Morrlsvllle, Juno 2S. Henry neynr,
charged with a number of thefts,
pleaded guilty nnd was sentenced to
from two to two and a half years at
hard labor In the house of correction
at Rutland.
C. V. APPOINTMENT.
I'. It. Ultriintrlek Mode Cirneral Itoncl
llifiNtrr MiccecdH W. V. Klrnd.
St. Albans, Juno St. A circular Issued
this morning from the ofllco of Picsldent
K, C. Smith of the Central Vermont rail
way announces the appointment of P. D.
I'ltzpatrlck as general loadmnstor with
olilces nt St. Albans, In place of W. P.
Klrod resigned. Mr. Fltzpatriok assumes
bis dutes in ndltlon Hi those of valuation
engl liter.
WRITES MARCH SONG.
"Who Is My .soldier Hoy To-nlghtf" by
Cecil V.tiK nnd I), T. Wilton.
Montpeller, June 2S. A march song,
"Where Is My Soldier Boy To-night."
has been written by Prof. Cecil G. Egg
and D. T. Wilton of this city and has
been ent to a lioslon publishing firm.
The music was composed by Professor
Egg and 'he words furnbhed by Mr.
Wilton, who Is nlready the author of
a number of popular songs.
TRIAL OF BELLOWS
FALLS MURDER CASE
Peter I.nroek In C'hnrgeil mIIIi Stnjlng
niiner Washburn,
Woodstock, June SS. A Jury has been
i selected in the case of State vs. Peter La-i
lock in Windsor county court, tho re-
spot dent being charged with the murder i
of Ulmer Washburno April 2T. The de
fense has intimated by the examination
of jurymen will probablv bo epilepsy and
epileptic Insiinty of the respondent, lilond
stains found on Larock's clothing will hi
an Important pa-t of the State's evidence.
FUNERAL OfHTaTeT
CHAS. A. CALDERWOOD
IliiMlnpHM l'lncrt In St
.Jolitmhury
Cloned during 'eremnny.
St. Johnsbury, June 2S. The princi
pal business plne In town were
closed during the fu eral hour of the
late Charles A. C ild. rw.jod, here this
.afternoon. Tho funeral was In charge
of Passumpsle Lo.Jk ' of Mnsons and
was attended by m.r 10' members,
besides a largo gathering of relatives
and friends. Mr. Calderwnod, who had
boon In business here for over forty
years and was one of the lending Ma
sons of the State, died last Sunday
after a year of 111 health. Tho service
at his late homo was conducted by the
Itev. Paul Dwlght Moody, and at the
cemetery tho Masonic ritual service
was used.
BICYCLIST BREAKS LEG.
I.nurenee I'nlnier, 11. l.enrnlng to Hide,
( nllldcN Tilth Automobile.
Rlehford, June 30. Lawrence Pal-
mcr.tho 11 -year-old son of Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph Palmer of this town, had his
left leg broken in two places yester
day morning when he collided with a
large touring car driven by Mayhlon
Taylor, as he was riding his bicycle
down Church street hill. The boy was
attended by Doctors II, S. Herrlclc nnd
K. P. Lundervllle, who stated that his
injuries although serious and painful
were not likely to prove fatal. The
Palmer boy had recently received a
new bicycle, which he was Just learn
ing to ride, nnd could not guide with
any degree of certainty, so that Mr.
Taylor, who was driving Ills car slowly
up the hill, was unablo to avoid tho
collision.
All "Feeling Fine."
Blnghnmton, N. Y Juno 2S. Com
panics A, B, C, and D of tho First Regi
ment of I n fan 1 1 y, V. N. G In tho sec
tion which comprised tho fourth of
four trains carrying Vcrmontors to the
border, passed through here at 2:40
this afternoon. All the boys were
feeling fine.
$500,0110 MARBLK CONTRACT.
Rutland, June . The Vermont Mnrble
company of Itoctor lias been nwarded the
contract to furnish niarblo to the value ot
about JfjOO.Oirt for a municipal court build
lug nt Cincinnati, Ohio. IMmund O. Morsa
of this city, treasurer of the company
left Sunday for Ohio and wns present
thero when the bids wero opened.
The marble Is to lie used for Interior
decoration and various varieties and sizes
of pieces nre requited. Tho contract will
give ninny men work for mouths. Tim
building Is n Imenso ono and lias been
In the course of construction for months.
DR. LIEBKNECHT
DISMISSED FROM ARMY
Berlin, June IS, via Amsterdam to Lon
don Dr. Karl Liebknr.oht, inn hoclnilst
leader, was sentenced lo-dny to :W
mouths' penal servitude and dismissed
from Hie army for Utmpted high trea
son, grosr Insubordination and resistance
to tho authorities.
The court adopted the view that Dr.
I.lobkueclit was guided by political fa
naticism and not by unpatriotic feeling,
and theiefore imposed the lowest penalty
on him. Dr. Llebknetcht is entitled to ap
peal from tho sontence. Tho chnrgo
against Dr. Llobknccht wns nt tempted
treason during war tlmo nnd resistance
of tho authorities.
Mexico City, Juno 2S. Thirty-six
poisons hnvo been killed and more
than forty seriously Injured In a col
lision between two trains at the rall
load crossing of Tlulnnpaiitln, about
seven miles north of .Mexico City. Ono
of the trnlns was running north from
tho capital and the other was coining
south from Montelalto,
Hnneroft, Jr., of Montpcller sccrolnry
ftftnnragtlallrkE"HMpSX
I'll HJi Mil LSI I 'LilflLR' - .
AT THE UNIVERSITY
IE
Degrees Conferred on Class or
Ninety-Four Young Men and
Women in Presence of Large
Company.
ADDRESS BY D. P. KINGSLEY
Honorary Degrees Conferred on
Nine Corporation Dinner,
with an Attendance of 200,
Brings Exercises of Week to
a Close.
With the conferring of degrees on a
class of 51 young men and young
women, nnd the exorcises incident ami
subsequent thereto, the ll!th com
mencement of the University of Ver
mont and State Agricultural College
passed Into history. The commence
ment speaker was Unrwln P. Klngslcy,
LL. D of the class of 1SS1, president
of the New York Life Insurance com
pany, who handled his timely theme in
tho forceful and eloquent manner
characteristic of the man.
Following the exeiclses at the gym
nasium the corporation dinner was
served to 200 guests at the Van Ness
House, followed by brief speeches.
At fr.10 p. m. the senior boatrlde was
held on the steamer Vermont, the i
,r..t.-.n. lllt.O l,.l.t .,-1. ...... tlw.,.
was dancing from S:00 until
o'clock, after which tliele was a ban
quet at Hotel Cliamplaln. The Cliat
caugny brought tho merry-makers
home in the small hours of the mom-lug-
The academic procession formed In
front of the Hillings library shortly
before 11 o'clock .and marched across
the college green and around the
statue of Lafayette to the front of the
gymnasium. At the gymnasium ranks
were broken and President Benton nnd
Lieut. S. A. Howard, U. S. A., chief
marshal, led the line to the platform
and to seats reserved In the center of ,
the hall. The floor was filled to over
flowing and manv found seats in
the i tinning trnck above.
s befitted the times, many large
flags were suspended from the running
track and from the wall at the rear
of the speakers' platform, the State
Hag nlo having a plnce of honor. The
platform was banked with many palms.
On the speakers' platform were the
leans of the several colleges, members
of tho board of trustees, distinguished
guests and the chnplaln of the dny,
the Rt. Rev. A. C. A. Hall, bishop of
the diocese of Vermont, who was asked
by President Benton to open the exer
cises with prayer. The speaker of the
day was then introduced. Mr. Klngslcy
gave as his subject, "The United Kng-
llsli Nations." He said In part:
On tho 1st of March, 1791, George Wash
ington, then serving the first term of the
first presidency of this republic, by proc
lamation directed the Senate of the Uni
ted States to meet in special session at
Philadelphia on March 4th, and on that
date he presented for confirmation his
appointments to federal offlco In the new
State of Vermont.
Vermont had then heen an Independent
republic for fourteen years. Her Intre
pid sons had won the first Importnnt vie
tnry In tho struggle for Independence.
Three weeks after the fight on Lexington
Common and nt Concord, F.thnu Allen
had thundered at the gates of Tlcnnder
oga in the namo of tho Great Jehovah.
Paul Revere had scarrolv completed his
Immortal midnight ride before Lake
Chnmplnln had been cleared of tho Brit
ish by Allen nnd his associates.
These were great days; great ns a rec
ord of passing events, hut, greater as in
troducing a new nnd a noble era.
Tho founding of this university dates
from tho same year; but, ns nn expres
sion of purpose, It goos bark to 1777, to
tho remarkable fundamental law which
tho pioneers of the Now Hampshire grants
then wrote for tho Republic of Vermont
.a Law that as clearly called for ono uni
versity in tho Stnte ns It clearly Inveighed
ngnlnst the crime of bunion slavery.
Through the intervening years 1777 to
1791 when the easterly and westerly
boundaries of Vermont wero undetermin
ed, when a persistent effort wns made
to dismember tho republic, when its fine
service to the colonies during the revolu
tion were flouted nnd Ignored, when Dart
mouth College was one day within Ver
mont nnd tho next day within New Hamp
shire, tho educational Ideals and stan
dards of tho people wero never lowered.
Dartmouth so powerfully disturbed tho
politics of the republic that tho results of
the contest which proposed to make that
now venerahlo Institution tho educational
head of the State, remain to this dav.
Dartmouth's appeal wan temporarily ef
fective, because It satisfied tho fixed de
termination of our forebears to have an
educational institution of tho first rank
within their borders. With the admis
sion of Vermont to the Union, her easter
ly boundary was fixed at the Connecticut
liver and thereby the plnns of Kleazer
nnd John Wheelnck and their associates
were finally defeated,
Tho act of 1791 clearly Mates Its purpose
In tho title. It wns nn "act for tho pur
pose of founding n university nt Burling
ton." Mark the word "founding." Tho
act wns passed during the exlstnco of
the Constitution of 17H. That Constitu
tion h.v comparison with the Constitution
of 1777 had been educationally emasculat
ed, and there Is abundant evidence show
ing that this bad been accomplished by
tho Influence of Dartmouth College.
The language of the title and of the ivl
Itself makes It clear that the people after
the mlscarrlnge of Dartmouth's plnns
were as determined ns they mcic In 1777 to
hnvo n unlveisity of their own; they,
therefore, not only pnssod the act found
ing a unlveisity at Burlington, but they
COMES T
pinvlded a foundation for It by dedicating
tho use of tho Institution so founded
v - r :t
I ' il ui a co run
fnl i . ,. - , . ...
riielr belief that by this language the.-:,,
n' ' " ,v y Clt ,'1 ,",,lv1cr!,,Uy
had reUcd tho unequivocal declaration
. ...... I,l.vor,?1 n"
wiMi-ioii in khv runic, can immiy no
iUestlriried.
Tho doctrine that sovereignly lesls In
tho Individual lies at tho heart of what wo
may call the Anglo-Knxou tradition. It
le?nn to take form In Magna Charta, It
has como down to us In impeifoet nnd
minotlinew lloglcnl form through Oliver
Cromwell nnd John Hampden. It found
n volco In tho bill of rights and the dec
laration of Indopendence. It was Incar
nate In Ooorge Washington, and found Its
first perfect expression In Abraham Lin
coln. Under this doctrlno the people of
tlie world can have as now, n tnultlpllrltv
of Independent soveielgntles and war, or
nno supreme expression of their nuthorlty
and peace. They can create ntates anil de
stiny them. They can federate the world
whenever moy cany m,m w.. s, . c
hnvo apparently readied tho time when In
the slow moving process of political evolu
tlon men must either take a great step
lowaids world fcdcrntlr.ii, or o on fight
ing until some peo le or soma nation,
through force, beconio masters of the
world. The existing crisis will finally
compel a morn or less definite Indication world. Tills reunion must bo accompllsh
of what -.he people ically propose to do. ICCil not to over-awe nnv other people, not
they flinch and say thero aro too many
rlltllcutles in tho wav, that tho problem
Is too complex bo sure nutocrncy and
militarism will be quick to seize tho op
portunity and once the world Is read lust
ed on tho old basis, with civilization rest
ing on the doctrine of sovereign States
as now, the outlook for democracy nnd
for peace will not be hopeful.
This is America's Inur. This Is her time
to speak. Her Declaration ot Independ
ence demands that she speak. Kvery line
of her history makes tho same demand.
She should speak to end war. Hut how
may war be ended?
Any program which seeks to end war
must do romr.thlng beside plcti'ro Its hor
rors. Men can neer no induced to stop
lighting meiely because war Is illogical,
brutal and Inconclusive. They know that
now.
Man Is a fighting animal, but amongst
really civilized men the fighting lmpulso
demands conquest and not blood. With
civilization organized as It now Is, man's
fighting lmpulso means war; but the he-
"'e . ties which men exhibit In war
aro not, as some claim, tho product of
war. The led blood that leaps at the
bugle's note Is a reflex of the divinity that
dwells in man. War simply calls It Into
splendid but perverted action. The soldier
who bayonets n woman resisting his bes
tial demands, does not thereby nor In nnv
way create the virtue which makes tho
woman welcome death.
Can this fighting Impulse bo satisfied by
war only? Is that nature's law? Is there
no other way by which the moral as well
ns physical courage of the common man
can bo supremely nppealcd to? Is there
no way by which these qualities can bo
applied always to construction and never
to destruction?
Men have slain each other like beasts
and died liko heroes every day now for
two years; but their heroism has been of
a lower order than that exhibited at tho
same tlmo by others who unheralded have
nlso died not striving to slay but to save
their fellows. Those who have died to save
life nre more truly representative of tho
morally heroic qualities of humanity than
those who havo died at the from in the
frenzy of battle.
Has peaco no qualities which In a high
er and to a greater degree than war give
opportunity to the fighting Impulse? What
moral, what heroic appeal does peaco
mako?
For fifty years wo have had substan
tially continuous peace. Has tho heroic,
the fighting lmpulso been nppealcd to dur
ing that period, and, If so, what have been
tho results?
Following Appomattox came an outburst
of energy In which thero was somo of tho
fierceness and much of the ecstasy of bat
tle. Tho conquest of tho Wet and tho
unmatched Industrial development of tho
nation during that period give us our
answer and much more. The fighting im
pulse found here an appeal that has not
only conquered a continent but has car
ried It far Into other fields.
't has
Built the Panama canal:
Quixotically won freedom for the Cubans
and presented It to them, for which
now wo havo little thanks:
Conquered, or partially conquered the
air nnd mnde It a larger sea;
Conquered, or nt least subdued, the mys
teries under the sea;
Applied tho power of steam In locomotion
to nnextent not approached bynny other
people:
Developed tho telephone and bound It to
tho dolly uses of lifo until It hns become
nlmost ns necessary ns dally bread;
Made the Illimitable and Imponderable
ether a mesenger which takes the hu
man volco half way around the earth,
nnd may ultimately take It through tho
silent spaces of tho universe;
Dlado tho mysterious, elusive, subtle, and
still unknown force called electricity the
servant of servants.
In tho Intense physical nnd mental ac
tivities which havo produced these unpre
cedented results wo have been first or
amongst tho first. In all these conquests
thoro hns been the strain and shock of
real battle. The victories won in these
conflict! have not always been without
Injustlie, but they have been ns truly
victories though bloodless as any won
on land or se.i.
In earlier years man had not only to
fight, but ho had to kill. He still has to
fight and lie ought to light, AVhcii man
no longer seoks for something to over
come, somothlng to conquer, he will not
himself be worth killing.
Hut war to-day between civilized peo
ples is the product of nn otter mlsnppli
catlon of the fighting Impulse. War was
neccssarv nine; it Is necessary no longer.
It Is neccsary n longer because tho con
dltlons that earlier made it Inevitable can
now be controlled.
War has been inovltable because the
world was so large. Mon could no: under
stand each other. It la now unnecessary,
but perhaps more likely to occur, becauso
the world Is so small.
It was Inevitable once becauso of the
doctrine of sovereignty. Ill the American
Union we hnvo destroyed the evi: of Hint
doctrine.
It was necessary once because the mn
iorlty of civilized people believed In the
divine right of icitnlu families to rule.
It Is unnecessary now be ause Hie mn
jorltv of civilized people lellevo In tho
right of the people to rule Iheiuscli es.
Vnr nevertheless exists becauso tho
greatest sluglo force In the world cnlru-
lated to bnnlsh war, tho force, that In
stinctively hates war and all Its works, Is
mwLiiiuj mm iu)i yri uiircu leancssiy 10
it-
iivLiitnuiuii nt principles,
,H rnv,m.mI. lnU lts tenels now
kl'Llm ko vast a body of adherents that It
as only to rise above that provincialism
to do for tho civilized world what our
fathers did for the western world one
bundled and twenty-five years ago.
And what after all la tho great cause of
war? The great cause of war Is whatever
alarum tho elcmentnl Instinct of Relf-prcs-ervatlon,
men's Intuitive, determination to
defend thin natural right to lifo, liberty
and happiness; tho fear that othora plan
to tnko those rights away. This Instinct
first inado man's civic unit his family and
his home n cave; then It found a larger
safety in tho clan, then in the tribe, and
finally In tho nation. It Is Instantly
aroused whenever tho nation, a every
considerable nation now must, projects
Itself Into the unorganized, lawless nnd
primitive, portion of society cahed the
world of lnternatlonallty.
Boforo wo can havu peace wo must end
lho savagery of Internationally. Ws
,mlftt hunt ollt of no.mnn.s laml tn
serpents, of fear nnd jealousy; we must
slay the tigers of greed and ambition.
We must become truly democratic. How?
Ultimately through tho federation of the
democratic world, but, as a first step,
through the leunlon of tho Anglo-Saxon
to plio up force with which to meet force,
not to ellmliato small nationalities) or
mako great ones afraid, but primarily to
make the Anglo-Saxon world reall demo
cratic democratic Ir.er-stato as well as
Intra-state democratic ns rur 4S S'.v'es
aro Internally democratic. Such a fed
eration (not confo.I-ratloni would almost
certainly come to Inch. do porhaph beforo
Its completion France, Holland, Switz
erland, .and possthly some of the repub
lics of South America. "Tho r .rllament
of man" would then bo something more
substantial than .a dream.
Tho Anglo-Saxon world has had only
ono great division in its empire since tha
days of King Alfred. The people of the
13 colonies exercised tholr power a3 Indi
vidual sovereigns and revolted against the
purblind folly ot a king who was half-Insane
nnd ministers who were selfish and
stupid. That revolt broke the Anglo-Saxon
world In halves; but It nowhero changed
tho Anlo-Saxon faith nor tho Anglo
Saxcn theory of human rights.
Tho admission of Vermont confirmed
tho breach in tho Anglo-Saxon world.
That as a bald fact was a calamity, hut
It brought blessings too. By the admis
sion of Vermont the now nation shoved
Itself not only free hut self-sutllclcnt. This
reacted on the mother country. Tho folly
which alienated 13 colonies was not re
peated. The great Englishmen who had
denounced that folly came Into power.
Great Britain entered upon that unparal
leled period of colonization that ha3 put a
circlo of English-speaking nations round
tho world and trought English Law and
justice to the remotest comers of the
earth.
Canada, long flouted nnd neglected by
us, lias finally sprung Into national being,
as English ns tho English, as democratic
as we nre bone of our bone and flesh ot
our tlcsh. Tho commonwealth of Aus
tralia hnn been created under a constitu
tion largely copied from ours. The South
African Union Is rounding out another
great, If racially hetegencous people,
New oZaland, Newfoundland, Egypt, In
dia, all tho other dependencies of Greal
Britain, have found the great mother Just
and wiso. Tested suddenly by an assault
of unprecedented fury, tho loosely held
units of the British Empire have stood
fast and tho Anglo-Saxon world outside
of tho United States of America and all
that It controls has been hammered Into
a union which will become closer with
post-bellum readjustments. Tho English
States which may rightly clnlm the dig
nity of nations Canada, Australia, South
Africa, New Zealand have all drifted con
stantly townrds our standards and our
ideals rather than towards those of ear
lier England. Each has a written con
stitution; none has an aristocracy, and
while all cling to the nomenclature and
some of tho forms of monarchy, nil nre
thoroughly democratic. The mother
country herself has moved In tho same
direction. New nnd violent readjustments
will follow the close of this war. The
British Empire, so-called, Is certain then
to be reconstructed. The anomalous con
ditions under which Canada, for example,
Is nlmost a nation and vet Is not a sov
ereignty will not be continued. Canada
had no voice whatever in deciding that
thero should be a war. She had and hns
no control over the foreign relations of
Great Britnln. though she now realizes
that whatever Gient Britain does binds
her. Canada will havo no voire In mak
ing peace. In the realm where the supreme
questions of war and peace arc determined
Canada Is less sovereign than the States
of our Union. Through their representa
tives in Congress our States speak In the
decision of all these nupremo Issues. Let
us bring the nrgument home.
Suppose Great Britain had been as wise
in her attitude toward the 13 colonies In
1770 nnd carllor as she has been in her
relation' with Canada and Australia Pic
ture America to-day as a Dominion of tha
British empire. Is it thinkable that we
woid long consent to have the questlcns
of war and pence settled for us by a Pa -Unment
which repiesents the British Isles
only? Thoro can be but one answer 'o
that question put to Anglo-Saxons any
where. Therefore for Canadn, Aus rii'ln.
New Zealand, South Africa am. New
foundland, therecan be nohnlfwav n-e rsa
when peare conies. They must then r
come actually Independent as the V
nles did nn utterly unlikely proceel' g
or the whole structure of the British Em
pire must be changed. These Anaio-S.ix-
on States cannot otherwise fully appl 11
their own benefit the principles of l is
tice and of liberty for which thousands of
their sous have unselfishly nm- y
died. This reconstruction "111 vastiv ln
cieas? the homogeneity of the L' s' s'l
speaking world, but will still leave " split
In twain.
What nn opportunity! What a glorious
opportunity! After the hideous mm of
19H-1S-U'; after seeing Europe do what
our Slates would certainly have done but
for Alexander Hamilton and the great
federalists who drove the federal consti
tution through In 17S7-S; after seeing tho
southern States fenrfullv attenint .ts ruin
in 1StU-5; nftcr coming ourselves up out
of the world of littleness and .(ealmisv and
fear; after feeling the pride that citi
zenship In thli gient republic Justifies
can we not now see a nobler picture,
do we not get a wider vision? Wh. t
would an Analo-Snxon world, Joined ns
our 4S Stntes ale joined, mean''
Geographically whnt would It mean?
It would comprehend 16,500,000
(Continued nn pnge four).
