TODAY'S PRICES
Mfxiran bank notes (stale bills) U
IS", Mexican pesos 51 Mexican ROlU
45 ij Naclonales bills 17 Carranza
r (old) i, (new) 4 Bar silver
(Handy & Harmon) i Copper 28
Urain lower Livestock steady Stocks
h'f-her
HOME EDITION
, TTKATHKK FORECAST.
TH Im and w4t Texa. fair; 'nr
Mrstee, fair, warmer; Arizona, fair.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. THURSDAY EVENING. JUNE 29. 1916.
TELrVEREP AVYWHKRK 0 fENTS A KOSTH FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY,
NO MEDIATION: U. S. STILL EXPECTS WAR
Captive
Americans
Cross
T
i
Negroes Wear Paris of Uni
forms and Jeered At By
Mexicans in Juarez.
ALL PRISONERS
SHOW STRAIN
Mexicans Laugh, al Appear
ance Men Make As They
Leave Train at Border.
WEARING parts of uniforms, no
one of them with a complete out
cf clothing', 2S negro soldiers of
the Tenth U. & Cavalry asd Lem Spills
bury. the only white pnroner, were de
livered 'o Gen. George Bell Jr., at the
American end of the Sa.ta Fe bridge,
shortly after 3 oclock Thursday after
noon. The Americans, who had been made
prisoners by Mexican sold era at Carrl
zal. following the battle at that place
between a large body of Mexican troops
and two troops of the Tenth cavalry,
reached Juarez from Chihuahua, under
guard Thursday noon
No attempt was made. In Juarez to
Interfere with the proncrs or to pre- .
vent trc-m from betas delivered to the I
American military auiboritleK. bur I
Americans who wer ir Juarez when
the prisoners were taaei. through the
streets to the comandancla, say there
was mucn jeering ani hooting By Mex
icans on the streets.
Lent SpIUabury In White.
Lem Cpillsbury. the only white man
to be brought up with the prisoners,
wore a white duck salt which had evi
dently been furnished him in Chihuahua
rny in pidcp oi me KcaKi snirt ana
trouaers which he wore He looked
SinTinilC 9Hil all lnnlfoil -paww m ..., ..&..
faces wre drawn. One of the negroes,
acting as spokesman, made this cryp
tic statement. We sure are glad to
get back."
The Mexicans In Juirer sent up a
shout of laughter when the prisoners
emerged from the tram
Closely Guarded.
Gen Francisco Gonza'es, the Juarei
commander, ana Andres Garcia, Mexi
can consul In El Paso, met the train.
Gen. Gem-ales boai-ied the train and
a. minut later reappeared, fn'lowed by
mo guara mat naa escortea the pris
oners from Chlhuahja
The guard pushed back the (tto.1
forming a lare through which Spills
bury .nd the troopers marched down '
the railway tracks. j
Fumigate Prisoners. j
Before the negro prisoners were
brought to the American side they
were subjected to the fumigation pro
cess at the Juarez quarantine station
inrougn which all Immigrants must
pass before being admitted to the Unit
ed States This was done to prevent
them bringing any typhus lice or other
disease germs into this country in their,
clothing or bedding.
Homes and Rifles,
In addition to the transfer of the
prisoners it is expected that the horses,
rifles, ammunition, saddles and blan
kets which were taken at Carrlzal, will
also be sent to the border at once and
delivered to the American army offi
cers. Refuse to Talk.
At the comandancla the troopers re
fused to discuss the Carrlzal fight,
their imprisonment or their return to
the border.
'"We are soldiers, not plain citizens,"
they said "We will have to report to
our superior officers and receive their
instructions.'
Spillsbury Mokes Statement.
Lra Salisbury, the American scout,
made a statement at the comandancla
in Juerez in which he repeated state
ments he had been credited with mak- '
Ing al Chihuahua by Gen. Jacinto Tre-
Mno Ihese statements were to the ef- i
feet that Capt Boyd, commander of the j
Amer-cr.ns at Carrlzal. nersisted in .-
W vancins toward Villa Ahumada to re
E co er a negro deserter after Gen. Felix
un, naa warnea mm to turn back
and fter SpIUabury had urged him to ,
accert this advice I
Thi mterwew was arranged at the
aoliciution of the Mexican offiSats and '
before PpiIIsbury or am- of the Ama-i
cans had had a chance to see the Ameri
can oificials.
Fed bv Gen. RonulH.
While Spillsbury was talking. Gen.
GonzaeF sent out for food for the pris- j
oner, 'who had had nothing to eat since
leaving Chihuahua. He later announced
th.it it. would probably be three oclock
In tht afternoon hefnr th nw-,..n.
red tape could be gone through with !
and ft prisoners transferred.
In h t interview Spillsbury declared
that h did not know who fired the first
shot at Carrizal. He said that after thp.
Ej secord conference between Capt. Boyd
"4 and Gen Gomez, when he advised turn
ing ba-k. Capt. Boyd said:
"I am the commander and It Is for
you to obey "
76 V. S. Troops.
Spillsbury declared there were but 76
Ameri'ans in Capt. Boyd's force. He ex
plains that when the expedition left
Camp !' was composed of S men but
that at Santa Maria 10 were sent back
to to" mam force with a wagon train.
Spillsl ury said that, after he had
been told that it was his duty to obey,
he adi lsed Boyd that he at least should
(Continued on race S, col. 3.)
A Little Show of Force Quite
CONDEMNEDXASEMENT TO APPEAL
UflenlnliLsl uUiSlnun UUHHEUuil
ALPINE, Texas, June 29. Reports were received here this morning that Mexican troops of the Ojinaga gar
rison were firing on the American town of Presidio and on the United States troops stationed there.
Maj. Butler, in command of the American troops stationed at Alpine, received orders to send all avail
able troops to Presidio at once and the soldiers were rushed there immediately.
There is a strong Carranza garrison in Ojinaga, which formerly was part Villista. and several times the troops
of the garrison have threatened to make attacks on the American side.
It is more than 80 miles from Alpine to Presidio and it will be Friday before any reinforcements for the Amer
ican soldiers at Presidio can get there from Alpine.
1ST TROOPS
IB SOUTH
Three Thousand Califor-
niansGotoNogales; Others
to California Line.
San Francisco, CaL. June 29. Nation-
al guardsmen from almost every state '
in the western department were mov-
ing toward the Mexican border today.
Mobilization camps throughout the west
will be deserted within a few days, it
was expected, as orders Indicated that
all encamped militiamen would be sent
southward.
The first detachment of the Callfor-
I nia troops to entrain, consisting; of
I 369 men of the second and fifth regi-
tnents, the first battalion of fie'd ar-
tllvery and the first cavalry squadron,
left the camp at Sacramento today for
Nogales. Ariz.
Oregon Troops Moving.
Two of Oregon's infantry battalions
were moving southward today. The
third battalion, which left Camp With -combe
Tuesday, was to arrive at San
Diego tonight- The second battalion
left the mobilization camp Wednesday
night for Calexlco. The remaining
members of the Oregon militia expected
to receive orders to entrain before noon
today.
Montana's first battalion was expect
ed to leave for Douglas. Ariz, late to
day and the balance of the second reg
iment, as soon as rolling stock can be
secured.
One troop of the Washington cavalry
and a company of the signal corps have
been ordered to leave the Americas
Lake camp for Calexlco, CaL They ex
pected to entrain today. AH the remain
ing Washington guardsmen have bees.
sworn Into federal service,
20,009111
HIE ONTHE I!
New Tork, June 29 Twenty thou
sand rational guardsmen are now on
their way to the Meucar border from
the department of the east and 46,000
others are emcamped awaiting orders.
Ma. Gen Leonard Wood announced to
day. MILITIA REGIMENTS ARE
EXPECTED HERE TONIGHT
No national guard troops have yet
reached Fort Bliss or EI Paso, al
though the first trains carrying the
militia are expected to reach here to
night. Neither have the two batter
ies of the Fifth field artillery from
Fort Sill. Okla.. reached the fort. They
were expected Wednesday night.
The strictest censorship is being
raaitained as to the movements of the
militia and artillery and nothing is
known definitely as to the arrival of
the troop trains. It was reported
Thursday that the Santa Fe was hand
ling 28 troop t rr ins on its line and the
Southwestern is preparing to bring IS
trains from Tucumcari, N. M.. to EI
Paso, but none of these trains are said
to be on the El Paso divisions.
OFFICERS CONFER REGARDING I
ILLINOIS CAVALRY
, ............ t
6LALKhKb
Des Moines. Iowa. June 29. Adjt.
Gen. Logan, Brig. Gen. Allen, Mai.
Howell commanding the cavalry, and
CoL Morgan. U. S. A., chief mustering
officer, went into a conference today
to decide what to do with the First
cavalry, two thirds of which refused
to take the federal oath.
Mustering in of the second regiment
was completed this morning.
SnnnFSTS RIIRIAI OP rABRI7A? '
-aa-Aa
VICTIMS AT ARLINGTON
Washington. D. C. June 29. A res
olution to provide for military escort
for the bodies of the troopers of the
Tenth United States cavalry killed in
action at Carrizal, from El Paso to
Washington, and for burial with mili
tary honors at Arlington cemetery,
was introduced today by representa
tive Johnson, of Washington.
12TII XiflV YORK REGIMK.NT
START. FOR TIIC DORDKR
New York, June 29. The 12th regi
ment, about 1200 strong. left for the
j naiicau uviuci at j uciock mis morn-i
ing.
i.
WAS TREVINO'S PRISONER
3 . t
ABOVE is a photograpu of Lem Spulsoury and bndj, maue on tue occasion
of their wedding several years ago. Mr. Spillsbury was the Mormon scout
with the two troops of the Tenth TX. S. cavalry ambushed by Carrancistas
at Carrizal last Friday and was made prisoner with the troopers. He was re
leased with the other prisoners Wednesday evening and was brought to the border
Thursday with the others. Mrs. Spillsbury and four children are now at Colonia
Dublan.
ASK 11510,01
FOR A!R PATROLS
War Department Plans the ,
Creation of 12 Militia
Airplane Squadrons.
Washington, D. C. June 29. The
I war department submitted supplemen- '
I tat estimates to congress today, call- i
lng for an appropriation of. $15,000,009
for army and national guard air-ser
vice. It asked that the money be made
available immediately.
The estimates show an Increase of
$12,000,000 over senate figures and
$1 4,000,000 over tha house military
committee's plan. The increase Is due
to a signal corps plan to outfit at once
' twelve national guard airplane squad-
Each squadron would have 30 scout-
IU1ID. VIITJ .J COJ-II L4UJ ULStl Ulf IB1UI1.
Incr qnH Vsiart'la q S en wi f
ing and battle aircraft in addition to
its motor truck and motorcycle equip
ment.
AMERICAN CONSULATE IS
LOOTED AT NOGALES, SON.
Washington. TV r Juna 29. Con- I
sul Simpich advised the state depart- !
roent today that during an anti Araer- j
icon demonstration at Nogales. Sonora.
the American consulate was entered
and looted. The message did not give i
the extent of damage nor confirm bor- I
der reports that consul Simpich had I
fled before the mob and that tha
American shield had
been dragged j
'
luiuutsu. uie streets.
PEOH
BEIHEND
Carrancistas Have 10,000 at
Bustillos; 12,000 at Ahu
mada; 2000 at Guzman
Columbus, N. M., June 29. According
to reports received here. 10,000 Carran
clsta cavalry have been mobilized at
Bustillos, on the Mexico North Western:
12.000 men are at Villa Ahumada: 2000
at Guzman, and Gen. P. Ellas Calles.
of Sonora, Is moving large bodies of
troops toward the Sonora-Chihuahua
border.
If these reports are true, the envel
oping movement of the Mexicans
around Gen. Pershing's army is becom- ;
ing more ana more pronounced. Army
officers, say. however, that the Ameri
can commander is readjusting his men
to meet eevry move.
A company of New Mexico militia
will leave here late today for Demlng
to stand guard at the hanging of Jose
Rangel and Juan Castillo. Villista. raid
ers at Columbus, who are to be exe
cuted tomorrow.
Nogales. Ariz., June 29 Resorts re-
ceKed here today as to the mobilization
of Mexican troops in Sonora indicated
that the concentration at Magdalena
was not proceeding so rapidly as at
first and that the 8000 men north of
Hermosillo a week aero had nt Vr.o- .
teriallv increased. Thlrtv-nin. .-,
artillery have arrived at Magdalena I
within the nast few davs. ' '
Often Proves The Master of
IDEATH DECREED
TR EASG N
Lord Chief Justice, Black
Capped, Pronounces Sen
tence on Irish Knight.
HIS ACCOMPLICE
IS DISCHARGED
Court, Charging Jury, De
picts Horrors of Treason
While Nation Suffers.
LONDON, Eng., June 29. Viscount
Reading, lord chief Justice of
England, with black cloth by
tradition called a cap, spread over his
head, and his two assistants Is scarlet
gowns, likewise black capped, pro
nounced the sentence of death for high
treason on the Irishman. Sir Roger
Casement, shortly before S oclock this
afternoon, half an hour after the fore
man of the Jury in a shaking voice. '
gave the verdict of guilty. An appeal
will be taken by Sir Roger. I
Sir Roger addressed the court, read-
Ing his final statement with explana
tion that he wished It might reach a ,
much larger audience than the one
before him, and particularly the peo-
pie oi America irum wnom ana coma
many messages of sympathy to him
and whose own struggle for liberty, he j
said, always had been an -Inspiration I
to Irishmen. i
Audience Moved to Tears.
Sir Roger's auditors, among whom
were viscount Bryce and many other
iromlnent men and women listened
n deepest silence, some moved to
tears.
The prisoner declared he did not
regard trial by Englishmen in an Eng-
l.sn court as a ixi.ii oy nis peers xo
which he was entitled and he expressed '
s wish to be tried by Irishmen. He I
reviewed recent events in Ireland from
tre beginning of the formation of the J
I Ist-r volunteers, and said:
I "We have seen the constitutional
J array refuse to obey the constitutional
government and yet we were told the
first duty of Irishmen was to enter
that army.
I Chose, the "Dark Road.
I "If the Unionists chose the road they
thought would lead to the good side
I knew my road led to the dark side. '
S5& "'.".Ey1? J&.IL'K
dock than to fill the place of my ac
cusers. 'Self government is our right. It
is no more a thing to be withheld from
us or doled out to us than the right I
to life or light, to sunshine or spring
flowers."
Throwing aside his manuscript. Sir
Roger laid:
"My lords. I have done. Gentlemen
of the ju:y. I wish to thank yon for
your verdict. I meant no reflection
upon you when I said this was not a.
trial by my peers."
How Casement Was Caught.
Casement formerly rendered val
uable services to the emilre while In
the consular service. He was cap
tured in Ireland when he landed from
a ship loaded with arms for the Irish
uprising. The ship was accompanied
to Tralee. Ireland, by a German sub
marine. The ship was apprehended
shortly after Casement reached land.
and Its German commander blew If up. I
After Sir Roeer had been sentenced,
Daniel J. Bailey, the private soldier
who had been held as his accomplice,
was placed In the dock. The chief jus
tice directed the Jury to regard a ver
dict of not guilty and Bailey was dis
charged. Sullivan Unable to Speak.
Sergeant Sullivan, the Irish barrister
upon whom has rested the chief bur
den of the defence, was unable to ap
pear in court today and finish his ar
gument In behalf of the prisoner. Sul
livan collapsed under the strain of
excitement and emotion while deliver
ing an Impassioned speech In court
Wednesday night.
Artemus Jones, assistant counsel for
the defence, addressed the court.
Mr. Jones admitted that he first
thought it seemed an outrage for Sir
Roger to go to Germany, but he in- t
sisted that the defendant had attempt
ed merely to organize an Irish brigade I
for use against the Ulster volunteers
recruited by Sir Edward Carson. He
contended that the work Or Roger
did in Germany was precisely the same
sort of work he carried on in Ireland
before the war. While the importation i
of arms was a wrongful act. It did not
constitute treason but an offence
against the defence of the realm act. i
He reminded the Jury of the responsi- .
billty resting upon it- I
Brings In Germany. I
The attorney general. Sir Frederick I
Smith, summing up. argued that in days I
before the war Sir Roger's defence '
might have had some weight, but "one ,
circumstance not insignificant had In- ,
tervened the greatest military power
the world had ever seen was trying to
destroy the British empire."
The attorney general dwelt on the ;
turce oetween the man parties, tie
said the question he asked at the be
ginning why Sir Roger had gone to
Germany had never been answered
because no answer was possible. Sir
Roger had gone to make arrangements
to raise "the hideous specter of insur
ContJnued on page 12, column 3.)
DRPET THUGHT
GI IS DUD
Testifies He Was Not Sure
Until After Beading the
Newspapers in Madison.
Waukegan. HL. June 29 Resuming
today the cross examination of Will
R. Orpet, on trial charged with the
murder of Marian TJtmbert, attorney
David R. Joslyn asked questions con
cerning what happened following Or-
pet's return to Madison after he had
left Marian dead In the woods.
"Did you get up early to get the
newspapers to see If Maraln had lived.
or died T
"No."
"Ton testified that you hovered over
iisrlan s body 39 seconas or a minute.
How did you know she was dead unless
you had given her cyanide of potassium-""
"I said that I was at her body prob
ably less than three minutes."
"She lay on the ground and she
looked dead." the witness said.
"Did von. as a matter of fact know
that she was dead, until you read the
papers at Madison T"
"I thought I did. The newspapers
corroborated this.
Was Trapped Wednesday.
In his testimony Wednesday, Orpet
once or twice fell into traps laid for
trapped into saying Marian's hands
were gloved, when previously he had
lesimeu ne saw a jmc pm un ir
bare hand Again, he said the poison
seemed to be in crystal form when
previously the defence had contended
it was in the form of powder.
TEDDfliTlFT
10 AID HUGHES
Colonel and Candidate
Pledge Mutual Coopera
tion; Taft, Private.
New Tork. June 29 Charles E.
Hugtes today took up the burden of Ms
, .. u , r
campaign for the presidency, assured of
the a.-live assistance of CoL Theodore
Roosevelt and William Howard TafL The
two former presidents are willing to
do thbir utmost to secure Mr. Hughes's
election- they have informed him.
Col Roosevelt dined with Mr. Hughes
in .he parlor of his hotel Wednesday
night. No other person was present.
Both raid afterward their talk had been
most satisfactory: that they had cov-
" a" "ers pertaining to the cam-
Dalr-n and were in complete accord. CoL
Roosevelt will make several speeches
for Mr Hughes, and Mr. Taft has also
indicrtea his willingness to make a
speaking tour for the Republican can
didate. Mr. Taft described himself as a
"private In the ranks" and said be
would 'obey orders."
INDIANA BULLMOOSERS NOT
TERRIFIED BY T. R'S FLOP
Indianapolis, Ind., June 19. William
H. Dye, Progressive national commit
tee man from Indiana, has been in
structed by the state Progressive com
mittee of Indiana to communicate
with the central committees ot other
states and start a movement for call
ing another national convention of the
party to name a presidential candidate.
xDAHDC MAV rilADn THF
IKUUfd fllAI UUarUI inc
TEAMSTERS LOADING SHIPS
San Francisco, CaL. June 29. Com-
mandant F. M. Bennett, of the Mare
Island navy yard telegraphed chief of
police White here today that federal
troops would be called for, if neces
sary, to protect teamsters hauling sup
plies to the United States supply ship
Mars, loading cargo for Mexican waters.
The telegram stated that sympathiz
ers in the longshoremen strike had
driven several teamsters from the docks .
here where the Mars is loading.
25 SURVIVORS OF SHELLED
SHIP HAVE REACHED MINORCA.
Palma. Majorca, June 29 Twenty
five men of the crew of the steamer
Pine of Genoa which was shelled and
sunk by a submarine on Tuesday have
arrived at Port Mahon, Minorca, in the
ship's obats.
Ever Go to a Bean Feed?
Boys, Here's a Chance
BOYS, were you ever at a "Bean Feed!" In the "Y" are a number of
boys' dub, and in the winter time thee clubs meet once a week for a
-Bean Supper."
My! How they do eat hot chocolate, bread and beans, and oftentimes
ice cream and cake. too. Following the supper, someone whom they have se
cured for that purpose tells stories for a few minutes. These stories are from
life and some of tbem are real thrillers.
When the stories are finished, the boys (to to the gymnasium for exer
cise and games, then to the ihowers and swimming pool. The boys in the
dub all know each other and have lota of fun. Their games are fall of pep
and they all have a rousing good time. Would you like to be in ob these
good times? The Y. M. C. A. has a place for you.
A membership in the Y. M. C A. will be given to the boys absolutely
free for obtaining only a small number of new subscribers. Call to rice IL H.
i'ris, circulation manager of the El Paso Herald.
Demand For Plain State
ment of Carranza's Course,
Remains Unsatisfied.
ALL TROOPS TO
STAY ON BORDER
Militia and Supplies Are
Being Rushed Southward
As Rapidly As Before.
T -TASHINGTON, D. C June 23.
VV tFlneto " minister ot
Bolivia, and Rafael Zalvidar,
minister or Salvador, called at tha
state department today to renew their
efforts to learn whether the United
States would entertain an offer of me
diation In the Mexican difficulty.
Mr. Calderon talked with secretary
of state Lansing about five rahrates.
Afterward he said be had been told
that the United States nuilH mi i
' cuss mediation in the absence of infor
mation that the American prisoners
had aituil!' 'n rekad and as to
Car-anzaa recu to the -demand for a
statement of Intentions toward kite ex
pedition in Mexico
Diplomat Will Call Again.
The minister reminded Mr. Lansing
of the interest of the American repub
lics in preserving peace and said ha
would call again when Carranza's re
ply to the note of the United States
bad been received.
Official announcement of Carranza's
order for the release of the American
troopers captured at Carrlzal reached
the state department early today from
special agent Rodgers at Mexico City.
When he sent the message Wednesday
night. Mr. Rodgers expected to be
banded a reply to the American note)
at any moment.
Crisis Little Less Imminent.
Danger of an immediate break with
the de facto government has been re
lieved by press dispatches saying the
2J prisoners had been started for the
border from Chihuahua city. Until
Carranza replies to the demand for
statement of his attitude toward the
American expedition in Mexico to Dro-
tect the border, however, the crisis Is
only less imminent than it has been.
Military Operations Continue.
High officials of the administration
lot it be known that the United States
would proceed with its military oper
ations to safeguard adequately its cit
izens and territory and would continue
to pursue bandits in Mexico when there
was hope of overtaking them.
Secretary of war Baker carried to
' Andres Garria's message to Gen. George
. - nunc uwk enj t:upjr Ul consul
Bell. Jr., at El Paso, stating that the
men were en route to the border last
night. Soon afterward same th- dis
patch from Mr. Rodgers. Ellseo Arre
dondo, Mexican ambassador designate,
was advised by foreign minister Agui
lar. in Mexico City, of his government's
action.
Mllltfa Mobilization Continues.
Action regarding the prisoners had no
effect, however, on efforts to speed up
the mobilization of the national guard
along the international line and to fur
nish an adequate supply of -war mate
rial to meet any emergency.
Even should the Mexican reply dis
claim any hostile intention and with
draw orders to Carranza military com
manders offensive to the United States,
the border guard would be maintained
at the strength now contemplated
while any danger from bandits con
tinued. To free itself from the menace
of an army mobilized on Its northern
frontier, the Mexican government must
comply aleo with the demands that It
police adequately its border states and
establish such firm military control
that raiding in the United States is
improbable and the assembly of any
large group of bandits Impossible.
"Will Protest Against Resting.
Mr. Arredondo said Wednesday night
he would call attention of the state
(Continued on Page 5, Column 4.)
Diplomacy
