ERALD
FOLUME XIV.
O'WKEVILLE. TENNESSEE, THURSDAY, JUNE 29. 1916.
NUMBER 26
PUTNAM COm
TENNESSEE NEWS
CUT TO THE QUICK
FOR BUSY READERS
Morristo-n proposes to build a Mu
nicipal Auditorium.
The women of Sullivan County are
organizing a chapter of the Red Croaa.
Mount Pleasant will hare free mail
delivery after July 1.
Memphis proposes to build a f 1.600,
000 municipal electric light plant
Road improvement bonds to the ex
tent of $65,000 f arry by a majority of
100 in Polk County.
According to a physician, Rockwood
la in . the throes of an epidemic of
measles.
A new bag manufacturing company
has been established in Memphis
which will employ one hundred men.
The golden anniversary of the Ten
nessee State Dental Association will
be celebrated in Memphis next June.
The Jackson gun tournament held
their secont annual meet with a good
attendance.
Tennessee has a larger representa
tion than any other state at the Blue
Ridge Student Y. M. C. A. conference
held at Black Mountain, N. C.
The tomato growers and shippers
of Gibson County met recently in
Humboldt and formed an association
to market this year's crop. -
The appropriation of $35,000 made
last year for the state audit has been
exhausted, and it has become neces
sary to appropriate $1,500 more.
The twenty-fourth annual conven
tion of the Tennessee Christian En-,
deavor was held in Knoxville, with S00
Endeavorers present
A stream of hot tar from the burn
ing roof of a cottage in Bristol which
he had entered with a line of hoe
struck Fireman J. M. Jones in the face
and inflicted a very painful wound.
Ensign O. O. Kesslng, nephew of O.
N. Moffett, well-known lumberman of
Memphis, i held prisoner by Mex
loans, according to dispatches from
Washington.
The whistles of various factories In
Johnson City sounded the war alarm
when Company F of that city was
called Into service by the War Depart
ment.
The body of an unknown man was
found In the intake pipe of a suction
pump on a dredge boat at Memphis
He was well dressed and wore a tie
pin with the initials P. E. G.
'Through the assistanoe of Knoxville
business men by a subscription of
$5,000, the fifteenth session of the
Summer School of the South was
made possible.
- Houston Miller, aged 80 years and a
well-known veteran of the Civil War,
died at Murray after a protracted ill
ness. Mr. Miller was one of the last
of Davis' bodyguard.
Between fifty and seventy-five
young men, employee In the plant of
the Aluminum Company of America,
Maryville, have volunteered for army
service In the Mexican crisis.
The Preparedness League of Amer
ican Dentists, with headquarters in
Maryville, are endeavoring to register
20,000 dentists to agree to prepare the
teeth of an applicant each to pass the
army or navy examination.
Mrs. Leslie Warner, Nashville, re
ceived in a cablegram news of the
death of ber nephew, Martin Newell
Sen iff, of London, who was killed In
action. It is thought, near Verdun. No
particulars were given.
Chattanooga dentists are making ar- j
rangements to send a large delegation
to Louisville for the National Dental
Association, which meets July 25, with
a view of securing the next session for
Chattanooga.
J. M. Dickinson, son of ex-Secretary
of War Dickinson, of Tennessee, w?.s
married in Chicago, after which the
couple left on a quiet honeymoon, he
; in juiu ins uaiiery, wnicn was c&iiea
lor Mexican service.
Ninety-eight state . convicts, chained
together by tows," have been put to
work at Suck Creek, where they will
be employed building a link in the
Dixie Highway connecting Hamilton
and Marian Counties.
Fifteen' ; thousand persons' in ' the
Knoxville district, comprising Knox
nd iirrntintting' rntinMea will nav In.
.....-. , - Win t ..t- i .
LftA. . mo 19 tJUJVD till lllUlCCinV
over the number who paid last year,
and will average well with any other
section of the state. j
Come On, We're Ready
AT COOKEVILLE, JULY FOURTH
Those in charge of arranging for the
great celebration of the nation's birth
day in Cookevillt have been hard at
work and practically all the plans have
oeen perrected. Tne program is the
most varied and elaborate of any ever
undertaken Here, and all who come to
Cookeville on the Fourth are assured
of a great time. There will be some
thing doing all day long. Everything
will be clean, inspiring, patriotic. Be
here with your family and your friends
and enjoy yourself. You will be gladly
welcomed and pleasantly entertained.
QUEEN OF PAGEANT
The contest for election of Queen of
the Pageant is continuing at The Way
side with interest increasing. The
standing to date is as follows:
Mary Jared 500
Margaret Rickman 200
Mattie Lee Barnes 200
Ada White 150d
Mary Isbell 300
Mildred Cooper 100
STREET PAGEANT
The order of the parade is given
elsewhere in this paper. Any organ!
zation not hitherto mentioned may
take part and enter at any time by
seeing the general chairman, M. T.
Carlisle, All who own cars ar invit
ed to drive them in the parade, wheth
er or not they are decorate. This fea
ture begins at 2 o'clock.
Route of Parade The parade will
begin at corner of Dixie Avenue and
Main Street; proceed down Dixie Ave
nue to Hickory Street (by W. M.
Shanks' residence) to Washington Av
enue; thence to Courthouse Square;
around Square and down Main Street
to T. C Depot, where the parade will
halt and the prize winners announced.
All business houses have agreed to
close at 1 o'clock and stay closed until
after the parade.
ADDITIONAL PRIZES
In addition to the contributions and
prizes announced last week the fol
lowing are to be Included:
$10 for the best decorated Overland
automobile, given by Algood Motor
Car Co., of Algood. ' .
Hand Bag given by Neal Drug Co.
as second prize to largest family to
register at The Wayside.
$2.50 In cash by The Strand.
PATRIOTIC CONCERT
Mr. Jeff Wall will be In charge of
the patriotic concert to be given at the
City School Auditorium at 8 p. m. on
the evening of the Fourth. This will
be a free entertainment. It will con
sist of songs, band selections, read
ings, etc.
NOTABLE PERSONAGES PRESENT
Among the notables to be recog
nized in the great parade on the
Fourth will be President Wilson, who
will be a guest of the town Board;
Carranza; our kinsman, John Bull and
his arch enemy, the Kaiser; Uncle
Sam and his followers, Miss Liberty
and Madame Suffragette; the ever
popular Mutt and Jeff; the King and
Queen of Movies in Cookevllledom,
Charlie Chaplin and Mary Plckford.
All of these come in response to an
urgent invitation from the Committee
on Notables, Mrs. Rutledge Smith,
Mrs. Mcuearman and Dr. waiter mc
Clain. Any others who are to have
people of note to be their guests
should notify this Committee so that
arrangements can be made for their
entertainment.
- ' .
1)
SUCCESSFUL MEETING
The Tennessee Woman's Press and
Authors Club held Its annual meeting
in Morristown last week, having a
pleasant and successful session. Mrs,
John A. Epperson of Algood was presi
dent last year. The program for
Wednesday evening, June 21, was as
follows:
Invocation Dr. Spencer Tunnell,
Morristown.
Welcome Address Mr. F. Roger
Miller, Morristown.
Response Mrs. John A. Epperson,
Algood.
Instrumental Music Duet Mrs.
Topping and Mrs. Howell, Morristown.
Fiction of Today and the Yester
days Mrs. Annie Booth McKinney,
Knoxville.
Vocal Solo Miss Margaret Petty,
Morristown.
What Moving Pictures are Doing
for or against Literature Miss Kate
White, Knoxville.
Vocal Solo Miss Alice Whitson,
Nashville.
Experiences with Magazine Editors
Mrs. Helen Topping Miller, Morris
Piano Solo Mrs. Cora Cox Lucas,
Laurens, S. C. .
Conservation of Southern Life in
Song and Story Mrs. Rutledge Smith,
Cookeville.
Vocal Solo Mr. F. Roger , Miller,
Morristown.
Tendencies in Short Story Writing
of Today Miss Rosa Scott, Knoxville.
Vocal Solo Miss Petty, Morristown.
Toast to Tennessee Mrs. Emma
Look Scott, Nashville.
Everybody Cordially Invited to Attend the Series of
Gospel Meeting Conducted at the Church
of Christ, in Cookeville, Tenn. by
T. Q. MARTIN, Evangelist
Beginning Sunday Morning, July 2, 1916. Two sermons daily.
Sundays 11 a. m. 8 p. m. Week days 3:30 and 8 p. m.
Vhe following topics will te ditcuued during the first week of the meeting: .
Sunday, July 2, 11 a. m la the Bible God's Book?
Sunday, July 2, 8 p. m What the Word of God can do for Us.
Monday, '8 p. m .. . . Jabez and bis Praysr.
Tuesday, 8 p. m " Paul's Solemn Charge to Timothy.
Wednesday, 8 p. m Origin and Development of Sacrifice.
Thursday, 8 p. m God's Drawing Power.
Friday, 8 p. m..Who Will be Ready for the Coming of the Son of Msn?
Saturday, 8 p. m Vessels of Wrath and Vessels of Mercy.
A study in Roman .2, 111 be th feature of the waek day services at 3.30 p. m. every day.
"Che meeting aMit continue Indefinitely; other announcements vilt be made from time to time.
TO THE TENNESSEE TROOPS
The nxt annual meeting will be
Tennessee's willingness to fight fori held at the club house in Bloomlngton
the union has been demonstrated Springs.
throughout the state every day by the
Beloved sons of Tennessee,
Bravest of the brave; noblest of the
free;
To you we extend our hearts full of
love,
Our earnest so.icitations for help from
above.
The highest of praise we commend to
you,
Metiers' idols heroically true.
Our country has signaled;.
You've answered the call. '
God grant that none of you shall fall !
Tbo the journey is long and mystically
filled,
With thoughts of being treacherously
killed.
May your staunch hearts teem with
courage anew.
Till the last grim obstacle i8 removed
from view.
The eye that watches the sparrow's
fall
Will heed the molber's tender call
To guide her boy thru war's domain.
To ease him when he's racked with
pain;
To stay him in the hardest light
Boys, be brave; you'll come out right!
urady uugnes.
. ,(
WEED DAY
On Saturday, July! everyone is
urged to clean up their premises, and
to Invite his neighbor to do likewise.
There is a lot of civic virtue personi
fied in a good citizen engaged in putt
ing his prem'ses in an attractive con
dition.
Nothing mars the appearance of the
streets more than the unsightly weeds
DILLARD DENNY
a weaaing or interest to many
looiceviiie people occurred in Nash
vllle, June 28, 1916, when Miss Ger
trude Denny and Mr. Lavert Dillard
were made man and wife. The cere
mony was pronounced by Rev. W. E.
Doss at the Jared House at 8 o'clock
in the morning in the presence of
about 25 friends, mostly from Cooke
ville. Mr. and Mrs. Dillard left im
mediately by auto for their home
near Shelbyville, where Mr. Dillard
owns a fine farm.
The bride is the only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. S. D. Denny or Cooke
ville The groom has been in busi
ness in Nashville for several years
out returned to hi8 farm this spring.
BROTHcRTON NEW8
The people of this community are
very busy with their crops. Health
is very good at present with a few
exceptions. Business is good in this
section.
Vaden Cooper and his sister Alma,
were In Algood one day last week
ieo cooper or Monterey spent a
few days here last week, . and left
Friday for San Antonio, Texas.
Joe Hite of Seymour, Ind., has been
visiting his sister Mr... Lane of this
place.
Miss Rachael Neal of Algood spent
Tuesday at. Brotherion with her bro
ther Luclan Neal.
Miss Daisy. Hall of Monterey is
visiting Mies Annie Ledbetter of this
place.
Mr. P. L. Judd, postmaster, is In
Nashville this week.
Dr. Howard of Cookeville was here
Sunday In his automobile.
There will be a Children's Day here
the 3rd Sunday in July. We are ex-
come.
supper
many enlistments to the state guards
at the various stations. It is evident
that her reputation as the Volunteer
WEST KIRBY
A wedding is much interest to their
many Cookeville friends was that of
State will remain unsurpassed by any Mr. Lee Wright West and Mis8 Willie
in the Union , ' i ijutnei jviroy. me wt.uu.s wn uenu-
. .. . " . 'tifully solemnized Sunday afternooon
A "moonshine outfit has been cap-'at 430 o'clock at the home of the
tured in Campbell County, three miles pride's "parents; Mr. and Mr. T. L.
west of Habersham, by Captain W. M. Kirby at Hartsville, Tenn. Mr. West
Lefever, deputy revenue collector; is the son of Mr. Ira West of Difficult,
Sheriff James M. Davis and W. H. Nel- Tenn. and is a Bplendid young busi
son, division deputy . collector from ness man. He has for some time been
Chattanooga. No liquor was found at manager of the Cumberland Telephone
the rliatiiierv and Telegraph Co. of Difficult, Tenn.
- L . .. Mi88 KirDy i3 the oldest daughter of
The youngest high school principal' Mr. and. Mrs. T. L. Kirby and is ve-y
In attendance at the summer school beautiful and accomplished. Shi
now In progress at the University of graduated from the . Hartsville his:h
Tennessee is Prof. Harris Copenhaver, school at the age of sixteen and has
principal of the Edgefield High School : taken several training courses since,
near Chattanooga, for social sessions. Mr. and Mrs. West left immediately
of Edgefield, S. C. He is only 20 yeaw ,a,fteJ tb? t0T an e
f in Eastern trip. -
growing along the fences, sidewalkr,,
and street gutters. Now It the time pecting a nice time. Everybody
to cut them, so they won't go to seed. There will b an iee rrenm i
Rid your lawn of weedO Clean your at the church house Saturday evening
for benefit or Sunday School.
Miss Jesie Jones of Crab Orchard
has been visiting friends at thlg place,
Algood
walks and gutters? .Salt the cracks
In the sidewalks. -
Let us have our city looking spick
and snan for- the. Glorious Fourth.
That will be true patriotism.
Nothing give8 a visitor a better im
pression of a city or town than well
kept lawns, beautiful flowers, and
clean alleys and streets.
PARENT-TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION
The regular meeting of the Parent
Teachers Association was held Wed
nesday afternoon at 'Wayside'. Many
members were present and much busi
ness was disposed of, Mrs. Walter
Carlen, the President, presiding.
A report was heard from all the
Committees, Mrs. Wilson of the Civic
Department reporting that July the
first was to be "Weed Day In Cooke
ville' and all citizens are requested
to not only cut the weeds in their
premises but also in the streets sur
rounding their property.
The Committees .appointed for the
Fourth of July were most enthusias
tic in their reports and a full repre
sentation of the Association is expect
ted. Mrs. White reported eleven
prizes to be awarded in the Baby
Show and much interest manifested.
This will be one of the great features
of the day.
Mrs. Weaver and Mrs. Haile were
appointed as a Committee to get ma
terial for mottoe8 and banners, all of
which will be dispensed at the Rest
Room to the different Chairmen for
their floats. These are requested to
get them as soon as possible so tha
all will be in readiness for the great
Fourth.
Miss Margaret McKenzie was rec
ommended by the Association to Mrs.
Eugene Crutcher for Chairman of Put
nam County in Extension work or tho
Parent Teachers in lieu or Mrs. Wal
ter Carlen who resigned in order to
accept the State Chairmanship of
Home Economics. Miss McKenzie is
well fitted for the position, her work
as County Collaborator taking her
throughout the County where she will
have an opportunity to meet the moth
ers of her Canning Club Girls and
through them organize Community
Clubs who will co-operate with the
schools of their respective neighbor
hoods. The Government is now co
operating with the Parent Teachers
Associations, recognizing in them a
great factor in . Education.
At the next regular meeting which
is the second Wednesday in July, the
women of the County will be invited
to be present and a splendid program
relative to Community interest will
be given.
DECORATE FOR THE FOURTH
All the town should be a mass of
flying colors the Fourth, the glorious
red, white and blue should be flung
to the breezes in every home and yard
of the town. The decorating Com
mittee especially request this and also
ask that all the women of the town
and county wear white dresses with
red and blue streamers somewhere
about their costumes. The men and
boys are asked to come in their shirt
sleeves (wearing white shirts if pos
sible) and ties and belts or hat bands
of red and blue. This uniform will
decorate the town if nothing else were
used and insures coolness -of apparel.
The following compose the Commit
tee on Decoration: Mrs. J. P. Hamil
ton, Mrs. L. M. Bullington, Mrs. Rut
ledge Smith, A. A. Staley, Dr. J. Wyly
and Bob Lee Maddux.
Mt. View Lodtre No 1?9 t ft n p
held a good, fairly attended meeting
on June 24th, 1916, Jas. H. McCulley,
N. G. in the chair. The usual unit nt
routine business was disposed of.
Bro. Chas. Bradford is still improv
ing slowly. Bro. J H York is
worse this week. Bro. G. W. Steph
ens is now convalescent. Nothing
heard from Bro. F. E. Whitson this
week After transacting the general
business of the Lodtre Rnrl linrlor tu
head of new business, Bro. W. A.
Hensley extended an invitation from
the Managing Committee on celebra
tion of July 4th to the Lodce to nnr-
ticipate in the Department of Frater
nal Orders. The invitation was ac
cepted and a managing committee wa8
appointed and it is desired and expec
ted that all Odd Fellows will be pres
ent and participate in the proceedings
It is hoped we may do the order proud
on that occasion. The next meeting
is the first meeting of next term at
which time the reports will be read.
The new officers will be installed. All
should be in attendance and get the
new P. W.
TO MEMBERS OF TENNES8EE
TRAVELERS
FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
Sunday, July 2, the Pastor Rev. A.
J. Coile will preach at 11 o'clock on
"A Sound of Battle is in the Land." ,
The sacrament of the Lord's supper
will be observed at the morning service.
TRIBUTE OF RESPECT
We the committee on resolutions of
the death of Bro. W. T. Ensor res
pectfully submit the following; that,
Whereas, it hath pleased God in his
infinite wisdom to call in death our
worthy and highly esteemed Bro. W.
T. Ensor on June 20th, and realizing
that his work in Baxter Lodge No.
494 I O O F, of which he was a char
ter member, and held all the highest
offices, has been finished, therefore be
it resolved,
That In honor of his services, and
as a token of our esteem for him the
aforesaid lodge drape it's charter and
altar for a period of 30 days next suc
ceeding his death, and be it further
resolved.
That a copy of these resolutions be
spread upon the minutes of the lodge
and a copy be sent to the Putnam
County Herald and a copy be sent to
the Nashville Banner for publication,
and be It further resolved.
That for the high regard that we
hold for his widow and family that a
copy be sent to them, and as a word
of condolence we would add,
Lord giveth. and the Lord taketh,
Blessed be the name of the Lord."
June 28, 1916
K. L. Richardson,
J. A. Isbell,
W. E. Sypert.
Committee.
Doubtless you are a'l acquainted
with the fact by this time that we
will hold our Annual Convention In
Nashville, Tenn., instead of Memphis
as formerly planned latst year at our
convention in Knoxville. Tre con
vention will be in session Friday and
Saturday July, 7 and 8 and there will
be some very important matters to
Rome 11 n hpfnro trie cnnvenHnn .Ma
year that will necessitate your attend-
ance.
Nashville has promised to entertain
us royally this year and I am sure
that they will do it, for they have al
ready been informed of the splendid
treatment that we received at Knox
ville last year, and they will try to
go Knoxville one better. Tho.e of us
that failed to attend the convention
last year do not now realize Just how
much we missed, and I trust that ev-.
ery member from Cookeville will be
present at the convention at Nash
ville. It seems to me that every traveling
man on the road, after enjoying all
the benefits to be derived from this
association, could well afford to sac
rifice the two days' time and small
amount of money that it will cost to
attend this convention. Hoping to
see you all at the convention, I am,
Yours very truly,
Wm. A HENSLEY. '
, j
RtGISTRATION OF VOTERS
Notice is hereby given that the
Registration Books of the First Civil
District of Putnam County, Tennes
see, will be open for the registration
of voters or 8aid district in the Chan
cery Court room at the courthouse to
Cookeville, Tennessee, on Tuesday-.
Wednesday and Thursday, July lltb, ,
12th, and 13th, 1916.
The Registrars or said aistrici win
keep said Registration Books open on
said dates from 8 o'clock a. m. till 9
o'clock p. m. for the purpos of regis
tering voters and furnishing voters so
registered certificates or sucn regis
tration. This June 28, 1916.
L. F. Stockton, '
Beecner Phillips,
Algood Moore,
Board of Election Commissioners of
Putnam County. ,
" ' !
'WAY8IDE' NOTES , JZ 2
Enter your baby in the Baby show.
We now have twelve prizes. Only
three are to be given for beauty. Td
the list published last week we have
added one for the baby with the most
teeth 'or its age. For particulars in
quire at "The Wayside".
The Gainesboro Telephone Co, have
presented a handsome water cooler
to the 'wayside. There will always
be a supply or Ice water ready for the
thirsty passer-by.
Buy your decorations for the Fourth
at the 'Wayside'.
It has been decided by the T. P. I.
branch of the Parent Teachers Asso
ciation to conduct an intelligence bu
reau at 'The Wayside' for the benefit
of pupils wishing a chance to work for
their board and attend school, and
The families wishing to secure such help
SILVER POINT ROUTE S
On Tuesday morning, June 20, 1916,
If you want a place or want hels '
register at "The Wayside'.
Beauty prizes in the baby show will
be awarded by popular vote. Others
by Doctors' examination. Drs. How
ard, Shipley and Moore will be the
Judges.
WHIT80N CHAPEL
A revival will commence at Whitson
Subscribe for thm Herald. 26 eta-
place attended meeting at
Saturday night.
Mr. W. A. Beasley of this place
made a business trip to Carthage, re
cently. Mr. 'and 'Mr. Nathan Burroughs of
Nashville have moved to this plaee.
Program for July 4j 1916
Street Pageant.. 2 p., m.
Baseball, T. P. I, Field d...-.3:30 p. m.
Fiddlers' Contest, City School Auditorium .3:30 p.m.
Baby Show at 'Wa.vside".....--.--3:30 p. m.
Patriotic Concert, City School Buifding'-.--,18 p. m.
The Strand Theatre ..,jQpens at 10 a: m.
with a variety program of comedy and clean entertainment
Beauty Contests at J. W.Gillem's store.ll to 12 a.m.
the death angel visited the home of , Chapel, Wednesday night, July 5. The
Mr. B. Russell and claimed for its pastor, itev. tr. a. cox, will be assist-
victim his lovable daughter. She ed by Rev. J. R. Crawford, of Keltons-
was a good Christian and was a mem-: burg. A cordial invitation Is extended .
ber of the Methodist Church. She , to everyone to attend these services,
leave her father, four sisters and two Let the people get ready, pray and
brothers. We are In sympathy with . beseech the Lord for a great meeting
the bereaved father and children In ' at this time. Tell your friends about
their trouble. (the meeting. Write, phone or go and
Say, cousin Thomas Barnes, of see them. F. B. COX, Pastor
Bridgeport, Ala., I was glad to read -.lu...
a letter in the Herald from you. TEACHERS INSTITUTE
James W. Sutton is Improving some. The annual summer institute for
Mittie , Moss, was glad to read a feacherg of this county and any other
letter from you, so write again. I who may desire to attend will be held
Miss .Anna Thompson visited the at the City School building in Cooke
writer last night, and Misses Ida vllle, beginning July 3, and contlnu
Anderson, Clara Hyder, and Mable ing two weeks. Instruction illustrat-
i Medley visited Miss Norma Carr last ing methods of teaching will be given
Ivtlrrh. . . I in Oil &1 nm AT. . 1 1V iVl rrtl at..,.i ...
Hello, to all of uncle John Sutton's Agriculture and school management,
folks and all the rest of the Texas The faculty will be composed of
people. Would like to read a letter an Instructor to be sent by the State,
in the Herald, from you. I Mr. Thos. A. Early, President of the -
The writer visited Mr. and Mrs. Polytechnic Institute, Mr. Sisk and '
Ernest Leftwich last Thursday after- other local teachers,
noon, and is planning to be In Cooke-! We believe this Is to be the best
ville July 4th. j institute w have ever bad . In this
Say, Miss Grady Hughes, we would t county, and visiting teachers are cor- -like
for you to come down and stay dlally invited to attend. All who
awhile with us. Our protracted meet- j teach in this county who do. not at
ing will begin at Hopewell the third) tend a summer school, must attend
Sunday in July. - this institute. .
Miss Maggie Jared Is going to visit I The program will be announced
the writer this afternoon. later. Respectfully,
Vada Sutton. 1 J. M. HATFIELD, Co. Sunt
