.-r
UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
I
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 1916
NUMBER 259
Y.M.C.A. ORGANIZES
mi
Object Is to Keep in Contact
With Former Students of
the University.
WILL ALSO AID M. U.
Paul Super, A.B. '04, Is Put
in Charge Many Oth
ers Will Serve.
An alumni committee is being or
ganized by the Y. M. C. A. to keep in
touch with alumni who have changed
addresses and to get into contact with
the social, religious or civic work in
which they may be interested.
Paul Super of the international
committee of the Y. M. C. A., New
York, is chairman of the committee.
Mr. Super was graduated from the
University with an A. B. in 1904, after
which ho was for four years general
secretary of the Y. M. C. A. in Colum
bia. Later he was general secretary
of the Honolulu Association for ten
j cars. He recently was appointed
traveling secretary of the internation
al committee.
Other alumni on the committee are:
C. R. Innis, LL. r. 'io, St. Joseph;
Carl Hoffman, A. B. '11, LI,. B. '13, Sc
dalia; Walter C. Goodson. LL. B. '99.
Macon; W. R. Gentry, L. B. '91, LL. B.
'90, St. Louis; G. E. Huggins, B. S.
9S, New York; W. T. Cross, A. B. '08.
A. M. '09, Chicago; W. P. Jesse, SI.
E.. A. B. '13. Columbia; Henry El
liott. Jr., A. B. 'OS, LL. B. '10, Seattle;
P. SI. Brandt. B.S. in Agr. '10. A.M.'l'f.
Columbia; A. V. Bayley, A. B. '10,
Cape Girardeau; R: L. Kingsbury, A.
B. 'OS, Sloberly; Stockton Fountain,
B. S. in Agr. '11. Centralia; Odon
Guitar. C. C. '90, Columbia: E. S.
North. LL. B. '05, Kansas City; C. P.
Hoff. B. D. in C. E. '06, St Joseph
Homer T. Newlon. A. B. "13, Colum
bia, and G. D. Edwards. A. B. '97, Co
lumbia. Store names will be added
later.
Records will be kept of those who
are graduated, giving the name, class,
department, permanent address, inter
ests while in the University and
church membership or preference.
When a graduate is newly located, the
committee will notify the Y. SI. C. A.
secretary or some other social worker
where he locates and thus help him
to find his proper place in the com
munity in which he lives as well as
to keep in touch with him.
Questions will be sent to a select
ed group in alumni to find out what
they are doing. Sir. Super will call a
meeting next fall in Columbia. Alum
ni will be invited to attend. The day
will be spent in finding out the situ
ation in regard to the social and re
ligious life of the University.
0 W.IK HEXEFIT THE FOURTH j
Committee Finds Cost Too Great
Will Solicit Funds for Militia.
Columbia's Fourth of July celebra
tion is called off. This is the result
of the action taken last night at the
meeting at the Elks' lodge of repre
sentatives from the social, civic, fra
ternal and business organizations of
Columbia. "If you want to celebrate
go to Centralia," was the advice given
by those who attended.
The plan was abandoned because
the expense of the celebration would
not leave sufficient profit for the Red
Cross fund to justify the efforts put
forth. A motion was made that the
persons present at the meeting pledge
themselves to give $1 each to start a
fund for the care of the .Missouri sol
diers at the front, and that each mem
ber of the Red Cross Society would
try to get others to join. In a short
time $33 was raised.
The Columbia Red Cross Society
will not be affiliated with the national
organization because the members
want the funds raised here to be used
for the benefit of Slissouri soldiers
only. If the local organization were
connected with the national body, the
funds would be used for the whole ar
my and not limited to the Slissouri
soldiers.
Slayor Batterton presided at the
meeting and appointed -a permanent
committee of seven to make plans for
raising funds with power to appoint
subcommittees to assist in the work.
The members of the permanent com
mittee are: Sirs. A. H. Welch, Sirs.
C. W. Green, Sirs. C. B. Rollins, Sirs.
Walter SIcNab Miller. L. SI. Defoe, Dr.
. W. Elwang and Prof. B. F. Hoffman.
COLUMBIA GOLF PLAYERS
THE WEATHER
' Tor Coluilllli.l Mini Vf.-f..!-. i' -..i
RRAT F.FFRRSrW C.TTV MRKrr&Z
J-rjJ.- JL. JL-JL J. .-.. -s'vr j. , -y. j. j. J.'J.J1J. 1 l-.ir .Missouri :
Dr. I). W. Clark, T. L. Price. W. H.
Allen and C. H. Fisher, all of Jef
ferson City, are in Columbia today
playing practice golf matches with
some of the local golf stars, Price
played on the 1895 Tiger football
team.
Columbians won both the morning
matches. C. L. Brewer and O. W.
Burnett were matched against Doctor
Clark and Sir. Price. Dr. W. G. Slan
ly and Prof. W. D. A. Westfall were
matched against Sir. Allen and Sir.
Fisher.
At the end of the first round Sir.
Brewer and Sir. Barnctt were 4 down
he came back splendidly and played
a 39. Sir. Barnctt played his usual
40-41, Clark 42-42, Price 40-41. This
gave the match to Brewer and Bar
nett, 5-4. They won the match on
the seventh hole in the second round.
Slanly and Westfall won their match.
irinr.i 1 1 1- r.. I. ....i..i.
nn.l Krl,l.,.v: e.,ntlnued wafm. hl
WVatlirr Condition.
I'alr weather has prevailed south of the
.IIss,ir j,,,,! i ,,., f ,he tt.rritorv eJkt
V ti' '". -"I"1"""1''''1 I!lv,'r- Showers lmve
fallen In the Cult Mates from alone the
Jews e,.:,st t Ulc.rid.. n,l In the north
ern Braiii atw from Mielileaii westward
lo the I.oeky .Mountains, iiieluillns the
"iTlN'rt-i" '""'"""' "f -kiteum-aii ami
l!lrtn k'iu.iil..l.t At. ...
15-12. Slanly played a 41-41: West- In nnleVl-aMv V" t ,C , !, ' ","la'B.:
- - r i. - " - '
fail a 50-44; Allen 54-46; Fisher, 53-
4.. .Manly and Westfall won their a marked
match on the third hole of the sec- l!":-.mt" " nr" ' the .Middle .Mis!
i.i . o ll-ni 111-11 1 1 . II IV IITTIiUIllll
TAHBnNZISTnS FREE
23 0, S, PRISONERS:
on
ond round
This afternoon Slanly and J. D. EI
iff are matched against Clark and
Price; Allen and Fisher against Bar-
tton states
The eaMern hizh uressiire k-:iv.. stilt i
dominant fe-iture. and its in-
ippl
th it
mostly fair and emitlnued warm weather
..in prevail in .Missouri for another thirty
six hours or more.
Arrival of Negro Cavalrymen
at Juarez Is Taken to Mean
That Immediate Danger
of War Has Passed.
Loral Jlata.
and IS points to go. Sir. Brewer's University golf course. Later in the
game was off the first round and his season the Columbia Golf Club will
score was a 44, but the second round send a team to Jefferson City.
The highest temperature In Columbia
vesterd.ir w.is si: .it.l .1... i .. .
nctt and Brewer. The Jefferson City iiisht was s: precipitation on- ri,t'ir.
IIIIIIIIOIIV . I. III. Teslenlav !! ner i-enf
4 . .. .. ',... -.-.
. jrar ;iku yesieruny the
perature was T!, and the low
eipitatlou, irj.
FUNSTON PREPARES
TO HANDLE TROOPS
players are enthusiastic about the
TO MEET INST, LOOIS
AdCluhsWill Hold 1917Con-
vention in Missouri M.
U: Men Help.
MILE-COLT SHOW IS DISCl'SSEH
Commercial Club Members Hear of
Boone Conntj- Fair Event.
Plans for the mule-colt show to be
given in connection with the Boone
County Fair this summer were dis
cussed at the Commercial Club lunch
eon at Harris today.
D. A. Robnett said the show was to
boost Columbia and Boone County. Six
hundred dollars in prizes are to be
given to the owners of the five best
mule-colts exhibited. The exact
amount of each prize has not been
decided upon.
Dr. W. P. Dysart said it was the
intention of the Commercial Club and
the Retail Sferchants' Association to
make the show an annual event and
to make It attractive enough to ex
hibitors to induce them to bring colts
to the show from all sections of Slissouri.
ILLUSTRAJES HISTALK
Dr. R. L. Ramsay Shows
Elizabethan Stage in Lec
ture at Assembly.
Xegro HooUnrffor Fined $300.
O'Neal Turner, a negro, was arrest
ed this morning for bootlegging and
fined $300 and costs. He was unable
to pay the fine and is held In jail.
TJo . k.rui with kei'iilnir and
- ." V...I. f,-' ...... i .. i
sinrin ii,. m- sir hnttlcs of beer
were found in his possession.
-Miss. Stewart Rack From Porto Rico.
Miss Roy Ellen Stewart returned
yesterday from Porto Rico, where she
has been attending the University of
Porto Rico. Her sister, -Miss Slarv
Stewart, who taught on the Island
lat year, is studying in New York
this summer.
rtrentine Censors Telegram-..
fir 1'nlted I're.
BfENOS AIRES Argentine has in
stituted a censorship on telegrams the
sending of which might touch on the
neutrality of the republic.
A new idea was introduced into the
University Assembly lectures of the
Summer Session, when Dr. R. L. Ram
say of the English department illus
trated his lecture this morning on
"The Elizabethan Stage" by the use
of a miniature theater. This minia
ture theater, patterned after one in
Shakespeare's time, gives an example
of the characteristics of the stage.
"Today we are becoming more and
more interested in finding out what
Shakespeare meant to himself and to
his contemporaries," said Doctor
Ramsay. "The historical point of
view has changed the study of
Shakespeare as it has changed the
study of other branches of literature.
Slany new historical discoveries are
being made every day. One of these
is in regard to the merits of the
Shakespearean theater."
Doctor Ramsay then explained the
theater, taking up each part and
showing the differences from the
theater of the present day. In that
time there was a projecting platform
upon which many of the scenes were
acted. The inner stage corresponded
to our present stage, and here the !
interior scenes were played. The use
of the inner and outer stages brought
about the elimination of all waits
and made it possible to have a con
tinuous performance. Effects of al
ternation, which are impossible on the
modern stage, were also possible then.
Two contrasted actions could be tak
ing place at the same time, one on
the outer stage, the other on the in
ner.
After Doctor Ramsay had given a
complete description of the theater
and stage, he applied this to the trag
edy of "Slacbeth," showing how each
scene would be acted and the meth
ods of portraying symbolic scenes at
that time.
"The modern movies recall the
Elizabethan stage," he said in closing.
"The many changes of scenes, the use
of alternation, the leaders and in
serts which correspond to the title
cards in the old theater and the
wide range of appeal arc all similar.
If Shakespeare were living today, I'm
sure he would be one of the foremost
contributors to the movies."
The Associated Advertising Clubs of
the World, now in convention in
Philadelphia, will meet in St. Louis
next summer. About seven thousand
members attended the Philadelphia
meeting, and an even larger atten
dance is expected at St. Louis next
year.
The University of Slissouri Ad Club
is the only university ad club holding
membership in the association.
J. B. Powell, secretary of the Asso
ciated Advertising Clubs of Slissouri,
which are affiliated with the Asso
ciated Advertising Clubs of the World,
sent out letters recently to all the
ad clubs in the United States, urging
them to vote to hold the meeting in
St. Louis next year.
Sir. Powell said this morning that
the St. Louis Advertising Club had
made a strong effort to bring the
meeting to Slissouri next year.
"The ad club convention will be a
great thing for this state." he says.
Representatives of all the great busi
nesses of the country will attend. It
is important to get these people in
terested in Slissouri. No convention
would help St. Louis and Slissouri
more.
"This is the largest convention of
business men in the world. Five or
six hundred ad clubs are members.
.Most of these clubs arc in the United
States but there arc some in Canada,
a few in England and Germany, one
or two in Australia, one at Slanila and
DEATH FOR CASEMENT
Sim
:.-R ii
The
rose today,
. 111.
Almanac.
4:10 a. i
i a. m.
S a. m.
i 9 a. m.
1 10 a. m.,
The Temperatures Today
..73 11 a.m. ..
YesSt'e.Lt;tpe-IMexicans Deliver Over the
Border Also Bodies of Dead
Americans First Militia
Crosses the Line.
Sun sets. '
79
...S6
12 m S
1 p. m 89
2 p. m 90
Jury Returns Sentence in!:
One Hour Confederate
Bailey Is Freed.
Ily United Pre.
LONDON, June 29. Sir Roger Case
ment today was sentenced to death on
the charge of high treason and con
spiracy in the Irish rebellion.
Daniel Bailey, a soldier confeder
ate of Casement was discharged on
the same charge. The jury was out
one hour.
I CAMP HONORS COLIMIHA HOYS
DR. U. A. BRADFORD XOT (Jl'ILTY
Columbia Plijsiriun Charged With
Writing Illegal Prescriptions.
Dr. George A. Bradford was found
not guilty by a jury in the Boone
County Circuit Court this morning of
writing illegal prescriptions. Five
cases were filed against Doctor Brad
ford. The case this morning was the
retrial of the first case, which re
sulted in a hung jury in the last term
Of court.
In the second case last term Doc
tor Bradford was found guilty and
was fined $40. The third case was
tried this afternoon and went to the
jury at 4 o'clock. Doctor Bradford
was not in the court room today, wit
nesses for the defense testifying that
he was confined to his bed with .sick
ness and had been for six weeks. His
testimony and the cross-examination
was secured in advance of Uie trial,
taken down verbatum by Uie court
stenographer, and read to the jury to
day. In the. case of the state against
(Jims ami Uniforms Received Troop,
ers Anxious to (Jo to Border.
"Columbia's boys received honorable
mention yesterday for the general
neatness wf their camp at Nevada,"
said Sliss Slary Ford, 1117 University
avenue, who returned from the en
campment this morning. The officers
see everj- stray match or piece of pa
per, and everj' speck has to be picked
up. "The streets are spotlessly
clean." continued Sliss Ford. "Lime
is sprinkled over all places where wa
ter is thrown and, though there are
a few lues, tne boys say they are
'sanitary flies' which do net harm.
"The rations are substantial. Beef
roast, navy beans, potatoes and gravy
'hit the spot' after the boys have
drilled for several hours, twice a day.
Still, news of 'eats from home' spreads
like fire and the talk does not cease
when the 'eats' are gone. For tiros
not so fortunate as to receive a box
from home, there is a little shop in
the camp that sells ice cream cones,
candy, soda-pop, cookies, tobacco and
pickles, and the shop-keeper is kept
busy.
"The surprising thing about it all."
said Sliss Ford, "is the difference in
saying good-by there and here. In
camp they are in high spirits, busy
and anxious to go to the border. They
are not thinking so much of the hor
rors of war.
"The uniforms were
7 i Ity t'niteil Press.
EL PASO, June 29. Twenty-three
negro cavalrymen captured by Car
ranzistas at the Carrizal fight June
21, released from the Chihuahua City
penitentiary last night on the demand
of President Wilson, arrived at Juarez
this afternoon. Lem Spillsbury, the
white interpreter with the American
forces at Carrizal, was also released.
Ily t'niteil Press.
COLUSIBUS, N. SI., June 29. The
dead bodies of eight American sol
diers were brought here today from
the SIcxican lines. Sergeant Slegce
he of the Thirteenth Cavalry died of
wounds received at the Parral fight.
The other seven died cither from
fever or accidental shooting.
Ity United Press.
WASHINGTON, June 29. How ful
ly the Slexican crisis has been modi
fied is not known. The release of
the American prisoners at Chihuahua
City has averted immediate hostilities,
however.
Troop movements on this side Of
the border still continue. General
Funston this afternoon telegraphed
the War Department that he would
continue preparations.
yesterday, but were not the regulation
khaki. The new suits are woolen and
Ity United Press.
COLUSIBUS, N. .SI., June 29. De
tachments of the New .Mexico militia
were rushed across the border from
here today when reports were re
ceived that there Is a large concen
tration of Carranza men at Guzman,
threatening the American communi
cation lines. This is the first cross-
distributed ing of the guardsmen.
jone at Honolulu. All these clubs send George Arnold, the motion of Roxic j dark brown and are said to be cooler
Boone for order to modify the parole than the cotton suits. Rifles were Is
of the defendant, filed yesterday, was j sued today. Heretofore all drilling
delegates to every annual meeting.
Jacob L. Ellman, a student in the
School of Journalism last year, rep
resented the University Ad Club at
Philadelphia this year. The Univer
sity Ad Club has had delegates at ev
ery convention of the ad clubs for
he last five years.
Dean Walter Williams of the School
denied by the court this morning.
The case of Reid, Slurdoch and
Company against Fielding E. Jacob
and others, a bill in equity, was dis
missed as by the stipulation filed.
In the case of Elizabeth F. Wren
and others against Estelle Gillispic
the receiver's
j has been done without guns. The ar
tillery was loaded on flat cars.
"The only thing that Is worrying
the boys is just when and where they
are going. It all depends on the War
Department at Washington. The boys
are ready."
of Journalism has sent out letters to Sturgeon and others,
two or three hundred ad club presi-, report was approved and the receiver
dents, urging delegates to visit the was allowed $41 for his services. N.
University after the convention in : T. Gentry was allowed $10 as attor-
St. Louis. I1C" fr receiver, to be taxed as costs.
The court ordered the rest of the
BROWXS (JET LEAH OX 3IEXIC0 receiver's bonds distributed between
the plaintiffs and defendants in ac-
Vogt Knocks in Run in First Inninff cordancc with their interests.
(Jeorge Tnylor Pitching. Thc case of CIifford w. Martin
The Columbia and Slexico baseball ,against Mrs E!vira gtone was dccide(i
teams arc battling away in an cxhi-.in favor of the dcfendant iate yes.
bition game at thc fairgrounds this terday aftern0on. The plaintiff claim
afternoon. A large week-day crowd ;,, fha. th roiiimhi.T Thmtor pv.
watched the contest. Lancaster, the)tendcd approximately four feet over
Slexico pitching star, was unable to his ,ot! adjoining the theater on the
make thc trip, and Dobbins, a right
hander, is taking his turn on the
mound. Slanager George Taylor is
pitching for the Browns.
Here is thc way thc two teams are
lining up:
Slexico SIcGee, If; SIcDonald, c;
Willingham. ss; J. O. Roberts, cf; T.
G. Roberts. 2b; Slorrill. lb; Heibel.
3b; Hulen. rf; and Dobbins, p.
Columbia Leegan. S3; Vogt, If;
Foster. 2b; Dippold. rf; Taylor, p:
east.
M. T. (JETS Sri'PLY OF RADIUM
Three Milligrams Cost $200 Case
.Missing; Contents Safe.
The chemistry department received
a precious little package the other
day. It looked like a leather cigar
ette case, but is was not that; inside
was a close fitting silver case; inside
this a small lead case; inside the lead
EMEIMJKXCY KILL PAST SEXATE
Only Slxl)-Sccn Seconds Required
for Appropriation of $L'i;,M!0,()00.
I!y United Press.
WASHINGTON, June 29. Tiie Sen
ate today passed a resolution appro
priating $20,000,000 in an emergency
deficiency bill. It took only sixty
seven seconds for the bill to pass. It
passed the House yesterday.
Clinton, .Mo, I'ritale Kills HlniM-lf.
Ity United Press.
NEVADA, .Mo., June 29. Private
Bowers of Clinton, SIo., committed
III health was
the cause of the act. The Slissouri
militia is still being equipped.
Recehes Letter From Mexico Cily.
S. C. Hunt of the Boone County
Trust Company received a letter to- j sujcj,ie this morning.
day from D. F. Pipes of Slexico City.
Slexico. The letter was dated June
21. Sir. Pipes said there was lots of
excitement at the Slexican Capital, but JULIAS
little action hostile to Americans. All
ho Amorlrnnc: In the pltr were safe, ""lie
but many were preparing to leave the
country, the letter said.
Works on Ciiil Mar History.
W. L. Skaggs of Rector, Ark is
now doing work in the State Histor
ical Library in connection with the
history he is writing of the Slissouri
Civil War. Sir. Skaggs has been do-
inir work here for several summers.
He was graduated from the University
with a B. U in 1900 and is now sup
erintendent of schools in Rector.
COMPAXY
RE01UJAXI7.ES
L.
Duff, cf; Slason, lb; Davis, 3b; Lan-lease was fitted a little glass tube;
sing, c. inside this tube was found a smaller
The Browns started off by getting a 1 tube, and within the last glass tube
run in thc first inning. Foster op-' appeared nothing at all, at first i
ened with a single and went to third glance. But somebody knew better.
ion an error, vogi KnocKeu a lexas unu mm. snuic Mimeuuuy saw u specs
11. 1. Simon (Joes Io Make Bids. ( jgu and Foster scored. Slexico ' of brownish powder in the smaller
B. D. S'mon of the Simon Construe-' could do nothing in the first inning. ; glass tube just three milligrams to,
tion Company of this city has gone the men going out In order. Taylor , be exact and knew that the brown- j
to Norborne. where he will look over 'fanned the first two. ish s'tuff was radium, worth the tri-j
the specifications and requirements j ; fling sum of $200.
Work cm Boone Tavern to Slart Soon.
Construction work on the Daniel
Boone Tavern will begin in about ten
! days. The excavation is almost com
pleted. The architects said this morn-
Ih V.n l.n l.nnt t.tti Iil In rr amiinmanf
u.h iii.il m. ..L """" -'""'"""; ' effort to live up to its reputation of
?er seen in sniiimum win uk uiuummi
here. The material is expected to
(J. Clark Is President V.
Torl.il t to Rnild Hotel.
The Dumas Construction Company,
which holds the contract for the new
Daniel Boone Tavern, has reorganized
after the death of its president, I W.
Dumas, Jr.
Boyle G. Clark, at a recent meeting,
became president of the company. L.
W. Dumas, Sr was re-elected vice
president, and Sirs. I W. Dumas, Jr.,
was elected treasurer. C. L. Torbitt
was re-elected secretary and elected
general superintendent of the com
pany. He will have general super-
, vision of the building operations of
the company, including the hotel. A.
SI. Rhodes will remain in charge, on
the ground, of the work on the hotel.
"The company contemplates no
change in policy and will make everj
be delivered either today or tomorrow.
the past in handling the business cm
hand," said .Mr. Torbitt today. "We
will built a hotel that will be a credit
to tills community."
for a $25,000 school building and place
n. bid for its construction. From there
he will go to Webb City, where he
will take up the matter with the
county commission and place his bid
for the construction of the $100,000
tuberculosis hospital of Jasper County.
Geography Club Meets Tonight. , A few days after the precious ra
The Geography Club will meet at 7 i dium arrived, somebody saw the well
o'clock tonight in Room 20, Geology j known leather case lying on a tabl;.
Building. The subject for discussion ! The case disappeared. The radium,
will be "Home or Local Geography." I however, and its other cases were
All persons interested in geography! being used in an experiment in anoth
are invited. er room.
Y. .M. C. A. Hcfcats Kirks-llle, 2-1.
The first Summer Session baseball
game of the season was played yes
terday between Kirksville
Y. SI. C. A. The Y. SI. C. A
w Copy of Liibln Rill Here.
Jewell Slaves, secretary of thc
State Board of Agriculture, has re-
and the ceived the revised copy of the Lubln
won by a bill providing for a national chamber
score of 2 to 1. The batteries: for of agriculture, introduced by Senator
the Y. SI. C. A.: Phillips and Price; ,SIorris Sheppard In Congress. It Is
for Kirksville. Umstadt and SIcFad-( the marketing measure similar to that
den. A crowd of about 7n0 persons j advocated by Sir. Lubin at the 1916
attended thc game. j Farmers' Week.
i
i;
