THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 90.
BARRE, VERMONT, THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 1916.
PRICE, OXE CEXT.
23 PRISONERS,
RELEASED, GO
TO EL PASO
RANKS MOWED
BY FRENCH FIRE
And Germans Were Re
pulsed in Attack North
west of Thiaumont
300 TROOPS IN CAMP.
Carranza
United
Acceded to First Demand o
States and Freed the Ameri
can Soldiers Who Were Captured by
Mexicans at the Battle of Carrizal
HIS REPLY TO NOTE
NOT YET RECEIVED
There Was Less Tension in Washing
ton When Official Announcement of
This Order to Release the Soldiers
Was Received, But Efforts to Mobilize
the Militia Continue
" Washington, D. C, June 29. The Mexican ambassador desig
nate, Eliseo Arredondo, received a message from Foreign Minister
Aguilar to-day, confirming that First Chief Carranza had issued
orders to General Trevino to release the American troopers cap-
tured at Carrizal and since held at Chihuahua City.
Official announcement of Carranza's order to release the prison
ers reached the state department early to-day from Special Agent
Rodgers at Mexico City. When he sent the message Rodgers ex
pected to be handed a reply to the American note at any moment.
It was apparent to-day about the war and state departments that
the release of the prisoners had made the situation less critical but
had had no effect, however, on the efforts to speed the mobilization
of the National Guard along the border and to furnish an adequate
supply of war materials for any emergency.
Even should the Mexicans disclaim any hostile intention and
withdraw their orders to the Carranza commanders now offensive
to the United States, the border patrol would be maintained at the
strength now contemplated as long as any danger "of bandit raids
existed
El Paso, Texas, June 29.Pending the arrival of the prisoners
taken at Carrizal and their transfer to the American side, traffic
between Juarez and El Paso was stopped, and other steps were
taken to prevent disorders. Shortly before 8 o'clock an escort for
the prisoners, consisting of 28 motorcycles from the 20th infantry
and provost guard, arrived at the American end of the bridge. A
throng gathered on the American side, composed largely of Mexi
cans. Several hundred Mexicans also stationed themselves across
the Rio Grande.
Vn shinrrfniv TV C. .Tuno Q A n lm. " ... ....
BRITISH USE GAS
TO COVER RAIDS
Raiders Found Bodies
Germans Lying in
Trenches
of
Parils, June 2!). After a violent bom
bardment, which lasted an entire day,
the Germans attacked French positions
northwest of Thiaumont in the Verdun
sector but were repulsed with heavy
losses, according to to-day' official state
ment. The French machine guns and
curtain of fire are declared to have dev
astated the attackers.
"CONSIDERABLE VIOLENCE."
Berlin Officials Admit Allies Are Fight
ing in Western Front.
Berlin, via London, June 20. Fighting
on the western front attained propor
tions of considerable violence at vari
ous points ye&terdav and last night, ac
cording to the war office. The British
and French attacks everywhere were re
pulsed.
Constitute Cavalry and the Vermont In
fantry Recruits.
Burlington, June 29. There are still
300 nien camping on the state reserva
tion, but the compass of the camp has
been materially decreased since the de
parture of the First regiment of militia
The present camp is made up of the first
squadron of cavalry and the recruit.
About PO men who failed to pass the
final physical examination were did
charged yesterday.
Captain B. S. Hyland of Rutland, who
commands the recruiting and. equipping
camp for the first regtmnct of infantry
received yesterday a shipment of 1,900
rifles and a large number of army blank
ets and. other equipment His command
comprises four officers and 31 enlisted
men of the First regiment of infantry,
who were left at the camp for various
reasons, and 72 applicants for enlistment
in the regiment, who will undergo then'
physical examination to-day. The re
cruiting offices at the home stations of
infantry companies have been closed and
all would-be guardsmen must apply at
Camp (lovernor Gates. It is extreme
ly uncertain as to when the infantry
recruits will be ordered to join the regi
ment. ;
The cavalry camp, at which are stn-
tioned the First squadron of the First
cavalry, comprise 16 officers and 150 en
listed men, of whom about 30 nre re
cruits. The war strength of the squad
ron is 1H8 men and as this number is ex
pected to be reached within a few days,
the cavalry may leave f r the border Fri
day or Saturday. However, if recruits
appear in sufficient number to make the
project a feasible one, an entire regiment
of cavalry may be fecmited.
; The regimental hand is also being re
cruited at the camp and will proceed to
the destination of the regiment as soon
as it has attained its full strength of 2S
men. There are now 15 men in this or
ganization, although, others are needed in
all sections.
CASEMENT
CONVICTED
HUNTON MANN.
The IrisliKnight Was Found
Guilty of Treason Against
Great Britain
WAS SENTENCED
TO GO TO DEATH
Historic Trial Came to an
End in London This
Afternoon
UNUSUAL ACTIVITY
ON BRITISH FRONT
Raids Are Being Made at Many 'Points,
the British Inflicting Losses and
Bringing Back Prisoners.
BOYS IN GOOD SHAPE.
mediate break between the United States
and the de facto government of Mexico
was averted bv compliance with the
American demand for the release of the
23 troopers captured in the fight at Car
rizal. The preparations of the United States
for war will go steadily forward. There
will be no interruption of the rush of
National Guardsmen to the border and
General Funston will continue disposing
the forces under bis command as if he
expected an immediate attack from the
Mexicans.
The fact that Carranza has complied
with one of the demands is accepted by
the more, optimistic officials here as an
indication that he is striving to prevent
a break. Even if he again should at
tempt to throw all blame for the Carri
zal light upon the American officers and
insist upon his right to oppose forcibly
any except northward movements of
American troops, it is thought that pos
sihly he will state his position in such a
way as to make further discussion nec
essary. During any negotiations, however, the
I'nited States will insist upon freedom
of movement of the troops in Mexico.
and any attempt to interfere with them
will be met by force if necessary. This
will apply too, to any period of delay
occasioned hy attempts to arrange media
tion or arbitration. -
It is known that powerful influences
have been brought to bear on Carranza
in the past few days to make him at
least turn over the American prisoners.
Prominent Mexicans in the United States
as well as American bankers and bus
iness interest with influence in Mexican
affair have flooded the first chief with
tnes-age. They all sent him the name
warning that the United States gov
ernment meant business and that to hold
the prisoners would mean war.
ican republic in preserving peace and
said that he would call again when the
Carranza answer had been received.
ONE AMERICAN SLAIN.
And Another Was Wounded in Tuesday'a
Engagement.
Washington. D. C, June 29. One
American soldier waa killed and another
wounded in an engagement reported yes
terday by Rear Admiral Caperton be
tween LInitcd State marines and Santo
Domingo rebels. The rebel losses were
not given. .The name of the marine
killed was given as Private 4Fohn Acri
ment of the 27th company. Albert Vk-1-
daum of Aberdeen, Wash., a private of
V, O-AI. , J
whs wounnen.
Admiral Caperton 's report said the en
gagement was fought Tuesday morning.
i ne reneis were tound in force en
trenched in a stronsr natural position in:
British beadquartcrs in France, Wed
nesday, via London, June 20. There
has been unusually heavy artillery
firing with numerous raids all aloi'g
the British front for the past twenty-four
hours, with intens outbreaks
from artillery concentrations on both
sides. At various points the Brit
ish used both gas and smoke, io
cover the trench raids. In the Ypres
salient the bodies of Germans killed by
the gas in their own trenches were found.
The Germans retaliated by bombarding
the Canadian positions at Observatory
Ridge and Sorrel Hill.
The ease with which raiding parties
under cover of bombardment can rush
(renches. inflicting losnes and bringing
back prisoners, has become a nightly
business on a scale never attempted be
fore..
As Last Vermont Troop Train Passed
Through Binghamton, N. Y.
Binghamton, X. 1'., June 2!l. Compa
nies A. B, C. and D of the First regiment
of infantry, V. X. G., in the section which
comprised the fourtn of four trains car
rying Vermontera tf the border, passe.d
through here at '2.40 yesterday after
noon. All the boys were feeling fine.
IN "COMPLETE ACCORD.
10,506 PRISONERS
TAKEN IN ONE DAY
BY RUSSIANS
Petrognad Official Statement Tells of
New Triumphs in the Fighting in
VolhynU and Galicia.
Petrograd, June 20. Russian troops
fighting in Volhynia and Galicia yester
day took prisoner 221 officers and 10.283
men, says the official statement.
"DELIBERATE INSULT.".
And Austria is Asked to Punish Attack
ers of the Petrolite.
Washington. D. C, June 20. The
American rejoinder to Austria regard
ing the Austrian submarine attacks on
the American steamer Petrolite, made
public yesterday by the state depart
Hughes and Roosevelt Held a Long Con
ference. Xew York, June 20. Charles E.
Hughes, Republican presidential . nomi
nee, announced last night at the end of
an interview with Jheodore Koosevelt
which last ed for more than two hours and
a half, that he and the former president
were in "complete accord.
Mr. Hughes issued the following state
ment:
I was very much pleased with Colonel
Roosevelt's letter of indorsement and he
has expressed Jiimsejf, in a very kindly
way with respect to my telegram to the
Progressive committee.- I wanted to
talk with Colonel Roosevelt fully with
respect to the issues of the campaign
and asked him to dine with me so that
we might have that opportunity. He
dined with me to-night and we had
very delightful interview. We talked
very fully over all matters and are in
complete accord. The evening has been a
very pleasant one
It is understood that Colonel Roosevelt
told Mr. Hughes he would co-operate
heartily with him in anv of his plans
even to the extent of making a speaking
tour if .Mr. Hughes so desired
Colonel Koosevelt called upon Mr.
Hughes at the nominee's invitation and
they remained together for more than
two and a half hours. A crowd had
gathered in the lobby of the hotel wher,'
Mr. Hughes is staying when Colonel
Roosevelt arrived..
Col. Roosevelt, when seen later before
his departure fur his home at Oyster
Hav, said that he and Mr. Hughes had
had a most satisfactory talk, and that
he was really greatly pleased. The for
mer president made it plain that he
agrees with the attitude Mr. Hughes has
taken toward we questions at issue m
the campaign and be assured the nom
inees that he would support him with
the utmot heartiness.
Colonel Roosevelt said that Mr.
Hughes stated he much desired the col
London, June 29. Sir Roger Case
ment was found guilty to-day of trea.
son. The end of the historic trial tame
shortly before 4 o'clock this afternoon
when the jury, which had been out less
than an hour, returned with a' verdict
against the Irish knight. To-day's ses
sion was given up to an hour's arguments
by the counsel and the charge to the
jury.
Alexander Sullivan, chief counsel for
Casement, who collapsed yesterday, was
unable to appear to-day and his argu
ment was taken up bv Artemns Jones,
assistant counsel for teh defense. Sir
Frederick Smith summed up the case lor
the prosecution.
Soon after the verdict was returned,
Casement was sentenced to death.
After Sir Roger had been sentenced,
Daniel J. Bailey, a private soldier, held
as an accomplice, was placed in the dock,
and the chief justice directed the jury to
return a verdict of not guilty and Bailey
was discharged, it being announced later
that the crown had withdrawn the
charge.
Casement received the death sentence
with utmost compose, smiling at his
friends in the court room.
PRATT LOCKLIN.
Former East Barre Teacher Married to
Resident of West Chazy, N. Y,
Xorthlield Fulls, June 20. A pretty
two lines "jf trenches about 1H milesJand an invasion of the rights of Ameri
from Monte t'risti. They were dislodged 'can citizens" and requests a prompt apcl
ment, describes the act as "a deliberate
insult to the flag of the United States jonel to aid in the campaign, and it was
agreed mat in tne laii loionci linogrveii
home weddingsoceurred at the residence
of Mr. and Mrs. D. M. I.ocklin of North-
field Wednesday afternoon, when their
daughter. tlraee, txn-ame the wife of
James W. Pratt of West" Chazy, X Y.
At the appointed hour, the wedding
march was played and the bridal pro
cession entered the parlor, led by two
little flower girls, nieces of the bride.
The ceremony was performed in front of
a bank of ferns and beneath a wedding
bell of green and white,
The bride was gowned in white crepe
de chine and wore a veil, carrying a
bride's bouquet of sweet peaB. She was
attended by her sister, Miss Ruth Lock
lin, and the best man was Gordon Owen
of Fast Harre.
Over 10O friends and relatives -were
present. The gifts were many and in
cluded linen, china, cut glass, silverware
and a sum of money.
I'he bride has been a well known and
appreciated teacher in East Barre for
the past 10 years, and the groom is an
up-to-date farmer of West Chazv, where
tliev will make their home.
As the couple were not leaving imme
diately, they were given an automobile
ride and the customary shower of rice.
The bridal bouquet was later sent to
the bride's brother, who is confined to
the post hospital at Fort Ethan Allen
with an attack of appendicitis. Mr.
f.oeklin was to have left with the troops
from that place, had not his illness de
tained him.
Wedding Held at Bride's Home, 113
Orange Street, Last Evening.
Miss Beatrice Francena Mann, d.iugh
ter of Dr. and Mrs. W, F. Mann, and
J. Frank Hunton of this city were mar
ried at the home of the bride's parents
I lit Orange street, Wednesday evening at
8 o clock. Rev. J. W. Barnett, pastor oi
the Barre Concrecational church, per
formed the ceremony in the presence of
relatives and intimate friends of the
bride and groom. Seasonable flowers and
festoons of ferns were charmingly blend
ed in the decorations. Daisies and green
ferns arranged in panel effects were used
in the hall and in the living room, where
the ceremony took place, there was an
arch of green ferns and white peonies
Mrs. Albert K. Scott, a sister of the
bride, was the bridesmaid, and Mr. Scott
attended the groom. Miss F.thelyn Mcr
rill, a niece of the groom, acted as ring
bearer, the double ring service be in,
used. Four ribbon bearers were: Miss
Agnes McKay and Miss Florence Vereoe
of Barre, Miss Elizabeth Atkinson of
Brattleboro and Miss Lottie Merrill of
South Royalton. Miss Maud Coburn
plaved the wedding march from Lohen
grin and during the ceremony she ren-
Icred ( Promise Me ' and A rcrfeot
Day." The bride was given in marriage
bv her father. Guests were ushered by
Clarence J. Bishop, John Sector, Victor
Anderson and ray Mann, a brother of
the bride.
The bride was gowned in white chiffon
taffeta, trimmed with silk net and silver
lace. Her bridesmaid wore white satin
adorned with oyster lace. The ribbon
bearers wore gowns of pink chiffon taf
feta. A shower bouquet of white roses
was carried bv the bride; her brides
maid's bouquet was of pink and white
carnations, and the ribbon bearers car
ried pink roses.
After the ceremony dainty refresh
ments were served by the maids in wait
ing. Mr. and Mrs. Hunton left later on
their wedding trip and on their return
they will take up their residence in Barre.
rhey were the recipients of manv wed
ding tokens, including money, silver, cut
glass, linen, etc. Both the bride and
groom nre very popular among their
friends. Mr. Hunton is employed at the
Smith Sc. Cumings store.
Among those from out of town who
attended the nuptials were: I'.vim Rob
erts of Dunmore, Pa., Albert E. Scott of
Trenton, X. J., Mr. and Mr-. .1. E. Mann
and two children, Evelvu and John. Miss
Elizabeth Atkinson and Mr. and Mis.
F. R. Mann of Brnttleboro, Miss Eulalcc
Leonard of Springfield, and Misses Olive
and Lottie Merrill of South Fovalton.
DRAFT PLAN
GOES TO WILSON
Senate Accepted Conference
Report To-day; House
Did Last Night . :i
OF DEPENT
ELIMINATES F" .fURE
&Tfff Am
That Mat'
Will Be Taken
Caif by Special
Legislation ' i
Washington, D. C, June 20. The Sen-
at to-day approved and sent to the
White House the conference report on
the Hay resolution, authorizing tha
president to draft into the federal serv-
ice all Xational Guardsmen taking tha
prescribed oaths.
An agreement on the army draft reso
lution was put through without any pro
vision for relief of dependent families of
guardsmen drafted into federal service.
A conference report eliminating entire
ly the relief proposal was approved by
the House just before adjournment last)
night.
In submitting the conference report to
tie House, Chairman Hay of the mili
tary committee said the House conferees
had consented to sacrifice their $1,000,-
000 relief proposal only after Secretary
Baker had telephoned Jto the capitol thab
immediate passage of the resolution in
some form was imperative. Mr. Hay an
nounced he would introduce the appro
priation section as a separate bill anl
Speaker Clark said he would entertain a,
motion Monday for passage of the nioas
sure under a suspension of rules.
AYERS WHEELER.
LAING WALKER.
NATIVE OF T0PSHAM.
But Had Lived Most of her Life
in
by assault after an artillery lire.
DROWNED WHILE FISHING.
gv punishment of the submarine con.-
jtnander and payment of indemnity.
The attack on the Petrolite, a Stan 1
ard Oil tanker, occurred in the Mediter-
i,
NO MEDIATION
IS DESIRED
should make three or four speeches for
.Mr. Hughes.
CLAN SERVICE AT GRAVE.
Funeral of James J. McKemie Held Wed
nesday Afternoon.
The funeral of James J. McKenzie, who
James Gallagher, 18, of Bellows Fill, r,l",'",T"6", a protest sent soon
' n 1 1 nru'iarn r,n nrpliminjr- rpnorf a fmn
Missing a Day. ,an)er-g (.ptain and crew brought
Bellows Falls. .Time !! Tim h,lv f'the Austrian communication to whiih
James Gallagher, eighteen year-old son ,hp nfw American note replies. The text j pned away at the home of Mrs. Mary
of Dennis tiallachcr. w as found in Sa- - I of the rejoinder is in the form of a mem- A- Smith. :ifl Maple avenue. Monday, was
tons river vesterday. He was drowned orandum from Secretary Lansing to Am-iheld at the bouse Wednesday afternoon
Tuesday afternoon. jbasador Penneld at Vienna. jt 2 o'clock. Rev. Kdgar Croland. pi-
The "boy evidently went fishing, his In vigorous language the commtini-',,r d the First IVethyterian church, of
parents think. His" absence at slipper 'cation sent a week agi yesterday mak-s ; "Viating. Members of t Ian Gordon. th.
time did not excite alarm as it . it clear that the I niteil States govern- p1- 'iuo ni "" rangers sac
ment believes the facts of the case en-pr '"" VTrr ' aucwiance ami several
tirely different from what fhe Austri- I "ne floral piece included tributes from
an submarine commander reported themUhose organizations. The bearers weic-
.lohn (.phis and .Mr. i nainlier, repie-
senting tle Ranpers, .fowph D. Will and'
r.awarn rinnie oi .-i. .imrew s. aim
Washington.
The death of Mrs. William Curtis oc
curred at her home in Washington Wed
nesday morning at 0 o clock, after a very
brief illness with acute indigestion. She
had been in her usual health and the
day before her death worked about the
house as usual, the attack coming on
suddenly. She was 84 years old, but of
remarkable vitality for one of her veirs.
Miss Mary A. Walker the Bride of James
V. Laing, Both of Barre.
A pretty June wedding was solemnized
in t lie First Presbvterian church last
evening at tj o'clock when Miss Mary A.
Walker, oldet daughter of Mrs. Agnes
Walker of U Grant avenue, became the
wife of James V. Idling of this city. Rev.
Edgar" Crosnland. the pester, performed
the ceremony, which was witnessed by a
large assembly of friends of the bride
and groom. White daisies and ferns were
used effectively in fhe church decoration,
attractive festoons converging at an im
provised arch of evergreen, wild roses
and white daisies, directly in front of
the pulpit.
The brtue was attended by her sister,
Miss Lillian F. Wolker, and Alexander
C. Walker, a brother of the bride, acted
as groomsman. I he bride was given in
marriage bv her eldest brother, James C.
Walker of Vergennes, and the wedding
march. from Wagners opera. Ixihengrin
was plaved by her sister, Miss Alice
Walker. The ribbon bearers were James
Walker, jr., and Xelson Stuart. Miss
Aoaie Reliecca Walker acted as flower
girl and the ring bearer was Miss Eliz
abeth Christina Walker. Wedding guejsts
were ushered into the church bv George
Walker and Howard Walker, brothers of
the bride, and William Dobie. The single
ring servire was used
The bride's gown was of crepe meteor
with pearl trimmings and silk lace
She wore a white hat draped with a veil
of white tulle, w hich was caught up with
mock orange blossoms. Her bouquet was
of roses and white sweet peas. Her trav
eling suit was made of blue silk taffet-.i.
The bridesmaid wore robin's egg blue
taffeta and carried pink carnations.
After the ceremony a wedding dinner
was served at the home of the bride's
mother, where wild and cut flowers were
used to secure a charming color effect.
Favors consisting of dainty pansy nose-
says were pined at each cover. . .Mr.
and Mrs. Laing left later in the evening
on a honeymoon trip to Boston and vicin
ity. They will be at home, H Bolster
'avenue, after Aiitf. 1.
I Bride and groom are held in high re
II Li 1- . . i t . . . .
moiim ne was hi me railroad nation
waiting for the arrival of the troop train.
At 1 o'clock yesterday morninu the fa- ,
ther notified the police department of i to be arid that immediate amends are
tne hoy s disappearante. 1 he father went expeeiei.
to the river lnk at davliht ami t..,,..,i i The Austrian claim that the Tetro
a line and reel and footprint of a ban-! "'',''8 eaptain voluntarily gave up sup
SCli u-u lirn in Tnn,ham lit Kail lit-.. I
............ ii,. n i,. i;f i-.ai,;..,.. card bv a wide circle of friends in Biirre.
KrvivW l,er U l,,r hiuhon,! -hn -,li I Mrs. I.aing has been a uceessful music
be 8S years old July 27; also a daughter, j teacher and for the past 1., years she has
Mrs. Abbie Morse, w ho has lived w ith her I served faithfully as the orgsnist at the
narent. for the nast 20 vr.. mf a .on. M'lr!-t Presbyterian church. Mr. Laing is
Victor of Washington. '-Mrs. Curtis wasl", pra n it e cutter by trade and is em
an attendant of the I niversalist church. P'0;1 tTthp P1"".' Bros Mr
and was held in the highest respect in the V'" ,T""' w v". "nK fl"9
community.
The funeral will be held from the
house Friday afternoon at 2 o"clx.k. Rev.
. M. Smith. jastor of the Williamstown
I niversalist church, officiating, with bui
isl in the village cemetery.
GRANGE DISABILITY FUND.
AT PRESENT
! .Tames (.U- and James liia.k n Clan
foot bov. The noli.e rfra-oe.) (1,. i plies taken from the steamer bv the sub- i r.l.n. I he eri.vs of the clan were
iand found the body within a rod or two I marine commander is flatly denied, us!'1"' at the interment in Hope ceme-
from where he evidently fell off the rwU !r' claim that warning shots weie ,"r-
near the -Red bridge " on the Ba,.n farm. ! fir a' th' Petrolite'. bow before b-w.TTT" TTrZwnrr
she was shelled and that her appearame BENJAMIN BAIN BRIDGE.
Secretary of State Lansing Informed
South American Minister He Would
Not Discuss the Plan in the
Absence of Information.
Washington. D. C, June 23. lenacio
jTo Be Provided for By Corporation Just
Formed.
Artile of association of the Tatron.'
Co-operative Diability association, 1m
lit glass, linen, silver, furniture, money,
etc.
YOUNG EWEN.
of
Barre Young Woman Becomes Wife
Physician at Skowhegan, Me.
A quiet wedding took place at the
NO JAPANESE WARSHIPS.
(aldemn. the ltolitian minister, and Ra
fael Zaividar. the Salvador
railed at the state department
to rf-new their ff.rt to lesrn whether!
Were Found After Complete Survey of
Merico West Coast.
Washiugton. D. C. June 2!. Admiral
Winslow reported late yesterday that ins
j fleet had made a complete survev of thv
Mexican we-t i-nn.t mH l,..l .i ....
minister. ..it , .
iiiit i nw war-iiips. w hoe pre
L , - f n-- mcrr nai neen rumorM.
lwas such as to justify the submarine
i-ommander in mistaking her for a eruis
'er.
C. A. C ALDER WOOD'S FUNERAL.
j Marriage of Barre People Took Tlace at
Baptist Parsonage.
A marriage was solemnized at fl:,"?0
home of Mrs. .lames F.wen. 1 Orange
street, this forenoon at 10 o'clock, when
her daughter. Miss Clara M. Kwen. was
married to In-. George K. Young of Skow
hrcan. Me. Only rclatne of the couple
i witnessed me ceremonv. wnu n was per-
have been filed w ith the secretary of i formed bv Rev. .1. W. Kirnett of the
state, for the purpose of providing a si. k i Congregational ehunh. A wedding
and accident disability benefit tor the luncheon was sere. before the bride and
members of all subordinate grange un- !groom left the city on a bridal trip to
Marriage Ceremony Performed Under an
Arch of Evergreen.
Waterbury, June 20. At the home of
the bride's parents in Colbyville last
evening occurred the marriage ceremony
of Max Gleason Avers to Miss Amy
Wheeler. The ceremony was performed
by Rev. A. D. Page, pastor of the Chris
tian Advent church, the double ring serv
ice being used. The couple were unat
tended except by little Father Wheeler,
the younj sister of the bride, as ring
bearer.
As the party entered the room, Lohen
grin's wedditig march was played by MLss
Florence Hatch of Xorthampton. Mass.. a
cousin of the groom. The ceremony w-as
performed under an arch of evergreen
and mountain laurel, the latter having
been sent by triends in Connecticut. The
entire house was decorated in evergreen
and cut flowers, over 400 pansies being
used in the dining room, where refresh
ments were served by Mis Kdith Gate
of Franklin and Mrs. A. G. Wheeler of
this town.
The bride was gowned in white chiffon
over silk al wore a veil. She also car
ried lilies of the valley. Her going away
gown was of dark blue and they left itv
Mr. Ayers' automobile.
The bride graduated from the Water
hurv high school in 1911 and from the
domestic science course of the University
of Vermont in 1!1,1. Since then she has
been the successful teacher of domestic
science in the Kssex Junction schools.
She is also well trained in music, having
tudied in the Wheeler School of Music.
She is the daughter of S. C. Wheeler, ft
prominent lumber doaler here, and
granddaughter of Mr. and Mrs. Timothy
W heeler.
The groom is the son of Mr. and Mrs.
Orlo Ayers, graduated from the Wster-
burv high school in 1!10S and from Xor-
wieh university in 1P13, having taken a.
post graduate course there in addition tc
his regular course. He was then in Chi
cago for a year with the Western Elec
tric comiwnv and since coming back;
home has assisted his father in the hard
ware business.
Both are popular voting people ant
much pleasure is felt that they are to
remain in town and on their return from
their trip will live in the new bousn
which Mr. Ayers has erected on Randall
avenue, tine ot the pleasant facts con
nected with the wedding was the pres
ence of a grandmother of each party,
Mrs. Kllen Wheeler and Mrs. Betsey;
f Ilea on.
McCOURTIE NICHOLS.
ier the iuridi tion of the ermoi.t ' Maine. Thev wiil he at h"me in Skow
o'clock lat eening at the Kapfi-t par-j State grange or National giange. i h llieasn alter Sept. I.
ona!-e when Rev. liert .1. l-chiuh united ; headquarters of the association will be I The bride was graduated from the
Was Attended by Over 100 Masons and lames Hen is nun of 2 Pearl street and:' Ho,kingham and the articles are training school for nure at the Mary
Many Friends. ; Horem-e M. . ftunbridge. also of Pearl ' signed by F. L. IVU itt of Newfane. if Fletcher hospital in Burlington this year
street. The couple were unattended. I - rsrnnam ot ji'mi pein-r ami inr- ami nm manv iricmiv i r. toung i an
Ui tne stat. anirnnus or in
fork.
graduated in 1I.V F
prtir-ing hysiinn
t- .K-nnswiry. .nine I ne pnnnpal Brr.,niin m,,,-i . . lineman jt'ft other, of other town in the MaM. alumnus
1 ne ad- ' " " .-.- -.. ,,...-.1 . , i...iH Tlik..MmnIi,i-
miraltv forwarded an um onCrmed r- i 'be funeral hour of the late l harb- ' ' '
Marriage at 36 Highland Avenue, tha
Home of the Bride.
Miss Annie Nichols, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Thomas Nichols of .16 Highland;
avenue, and John MK'ourtie of Central
street were married at the bride's homn
this forenoon at 10 o'clock. Rev. B. G.
Lip.-ky. pastor of the Hedding Methodist
church, performing the ceremony. th
bridal party standing under n arch of
daisies, imlv relatie- of the bride ant
groom were present at the ceremony.
The bride was attended by Miss Mildret
K. lrk. and William M"ourtie. a,
brother of fhe groom, acted as best man.
A wedding luncheon was served after tho
ceremonv and then the couple departed)
on bridal t"iir. which will include parts
of Maine. New Hampshire and Massa
, huett. Thev will t-e at home in Barri
There i no capital
inv i n iri .iiii m m frtartsin ai - - .... . ,
.. a: .... ....' Z .IP"" '" leder named ilehaia. hete tes.er'iay afternoon. Rlf Vf LIST HftrtftFn I BIG MARBLE CONTRACT. he baa been
1 i' iV" I -(T vA-r j had Iwen granted amnesty- and lommis- jThe funeral was in ch-irge of Pasump.;t J - . sk began.
- ' 3 ' i ' . ..... ..I . . .n. ... ! u. , t ...'- . Mi.,,,. n,l . !tnrtA 1.' . . . ' A . . w . . t. . .. .
w,. ..... .... ,....., , lunn army. ; . Lee Broken Twice in collision nf An- rreanr ifinni i rnrnisn txni.aw i ,mwi mr fimn m mnif imm nut
" o,er 1") wemher.. b. -ides a lar-. th- ,-mA.,i, Werta ef Material : "f town were Tn and Mrs. T S Provsn
ITALIAN SEAMERS SUNK. '"in of relative .d trier-d.. Mr. t a!- temebUe. Uerth ef M.ten.L ' n1 rr. C. 1-Smart of B..r!.rglo
drrwood. r bad been in )iin.T bei Rtohford. June JT Law ren.-r Plmer. IVxtor. June ?9 The Vermont Mar-1
Three Shirs Destroyed, Reports Llnvi ' T over fortv year and wa one of S.!1 ier .-II op of Mr. and Mrs. .lM-pn hie o ha been awarded the contract to!
' r . . . .... . . . . 1 . . I h Kill fa Mlrir li4 Tj; t
ira.,;rig .viatnns ni ine sif, j;r.i !-t I ;,nr. siiTem! a rn.-tiire of hi b!t furnsn marme io ie value ot pMiti - -, v.
viniay after a year of ill health. "Jh-kj in t " pi yeteriT when t e "' for a rnunieipal irt biuMn'J All r oner gn on t'-e rim ti
"tii'f at h: la'e w was ren. iktr. I. . k ), r: 1 n.- nr. I fc i inirinali. t.Iminr K Morw vh'im 1 t,. -Vi k.
SeerMary
ing ibul live minute and afterward
Mi he wa toil that the I'nited States
iH ret r . u the situation in h?
aben o information that the Ameri
a B pr:ne actually were re'eakH and
a to t arranra rej !y to the demand tr
a Matement of bi intention toward the
er-i:tion in fri,.
Minis'T a! !-ron reminded Se-rrta r V
Ici.'.g c.f fhe !BtrU of all tLe Atnet-
Agenry.
London. June IJ.n d
a.-n v anno-.in e-i to-day I "-t t m
an t'iior. the Mr ib--;i I,'.
P.no, h l been ii:k.
'- per tee !,. Paul ! t JlWr. ard a! tret .i;dM with Val.l n Tay W ;
ar. I 1 Tietery te M !' ritual -eri e tom.--bie. The iir mi ri'-t rj im!
u-ej. raptd'r.
th it. trirer rf the company. fitpanner anl iix- t- : turn. Tv.e
s-im iav for lht and pr--rt ben no' oe r. ears be on hanl t th C ty
tie btii were ,'rk at 5 43 o'rl-k.
medi.-al deportment ofisfter Auc I. n HirMand avenue.
the t"nier.itv of Wrmi.nl l..r. v.. . . : Il,e hr,,!e' iscl-lin'- "o n wa of Co-
r some litt le t me I pennagen nine po--i mow n .in,
trimmed with ,hn"n. an'l her traveling
int of blue ii poplin, with whieh ahej
ore a wh'te .;e bat. Her bride,
maid' gown of pale yellow mesca
line. Mr. and Mr. f" onrtie hav a larg
number of friends in fiarre. Th groom
:s a jrrani'e ru'ter and hi bride, w ho wa
t era-mate of SpuH ; h gh vhon)
th -la of r.1. attrrd'd the Nfi-flowe'l
lire f. j j-
h-w.J o- frrraV rj
Is. ',l"ffi oprn.r;
irg pirl-'ri in Brte.
in WoTfete-f
up dresfaisk-
