pM " J. L '
1~I BOSTE CHUTAQUAJUL 8 9O1~~OUR BIG, D-AYS-4-FOU BIG I~U~~nU IX
TEPICKENS SENINE
-PVLS4b EKa OFFICIAL PAPER OF PICKENS COUNTY SBCITO RC N OLRP~Y4
ttbje41871-Volumei 46 PICKENS. So C., JUNE 29v 1916.ube
Blease vorite at .
Pickens Meeting
A RPRESENTATIVE audiehee of
pbout 600.people heard the candi:
dates for state offices speak in Pickens
on last Thursday. In the audience were
many w9men. The meeting was called
to order in the court house shortly be
fore 11 o'clock and opened with prayer
by Rev. D. W. Hiott. . County Chair
man G. F. Norris presided, Mr. Norris
makes a fine presiding officer and was
perfectly fair to all candidates.
John 13. Swearingen, superintendent
of education, was the first speaker. He
is unopposed for reelection but is going
over the state preaching the gospel of
education. He complimented the people
of Pickens county on the progress they
were making along educational lines
and urged them, to greater things.
W. B. Dove for secretary of state
was the next speaker and made a good
impression. He has been chief clerk in
this office for eight years. He was fol
lowed by Geo. W. Wightman for the
same offce. Mr. Wightman is state
senator from Saluda county. ' Sam T.
Carter and D. W. M'Laurin, candidates
for state treasurer spoke next. They
were followed by the candidates for
railroad commissioner. McDuffie Hamp
ton, W. H. Kelley, W. P. Thrower,-Jas.
Cansler and Albert Fant.
The crowd by .his time having be
come too large for the court house the
meeting was adjourned to the lawn, the
candidates for governor and lieutenant
governor speaking from the stand on
the court house lawn.
John M. DesChamps, "the biggest
man in the race," was the first for gov
ernor. He made a fine address and said
that he wanted t6 see South Carolina at
the top of the states of the Union and
tbht she possessed the natural resources
to be placed there. lie urged soil test
ing and said that wth Clemson college
at our back we can do anything. He
said that too many of us lived in South
Carolina and our pantries were in-Chi
cago. He iade a plea for unity among
the people And the doing away with
factionalism., He is a splendid orator
and made a good common sense speech.
John T. Duncan talked about the
"systein." He said that Blease was
opposed to prohibition and that Man
ning was in favor of local option, but
he said that it didn't make much difier
ence who was elected, it was simply a
ca..e of the "jumping-jack" dancing
when the bosses pulled the string.
Governor Manning w. then introdue
eJ. He began with a reference to the
crisis now at hand because of the Mex
ican situation and said that he was do
ing all that he-could to insure the safe
ty of the health of the National guards
men. Hjfspoke of the loyalty of South
Carolinians. He told of the money sav
ed by his administration and of having
cleaned up Charleston. He confined a
good part of his address to the state
hospital for the insane and the improve
ments that have been made during his
4 administration. He explained that he
had paid $2,375 out of his own pocket in
.order to plae the best man possible at
the head of this institution arid that he
would accept no re-imbursement for'
this payment. He spoke of the money
* saved by having patients do work that
they are abIp to do and that makes life
4 more pleasant for them. He receivdd
some applause as he concluded.
Former governor Blease was the next
speaker and was greeted with a round
~"of applause. He attacked the admin
istration of Manning and stressed tax
ation. He scored the administration for
their extravagance and said that they
were creating too many boards to give
jobs to the "pets." He cited the case
of W. W. Bradley, who is secretary to
Wyatt Aiken, and who was also ap
*pointed auditor to the state bank ex
aminer, a worthless office recently cre
ated to give a job to a- political pet who
is now drawing two salaries. He also
referred to the tax commission which is
costing the state several thousand dol
- lars and whose chairman" draws a big
salary and does not pay one cent of tax
es other than the poll on his head. He
says this board is doing nothing. The
state board of charities and corrections
also came in for their share of criticism.
He says all this board has done is to
show how to separate the blacks from
the whites on the chain gang. He says
that a little $1800 man was picked up
over'in Greenville and placed at the
head 'of this board with a salary larger
than thegovernor receives. He refer
red to his pardon record and was loudly
cheered when he scored a point, Hie
*deliver'ed his usual address along other
lines. He paid a high compliment to
-Capt. Ivy M. Mauldin and the way in
which-he Is discharging the duties of
'e state haik examiners office. He~
W# el rl34e~ fav6'rite with~the crow(l
Oolenoy News
Oolenoy, June 26. -A marriage whic
cane as a surprise. to all except the
mbst intimate friends of the contract
Ing parties, was that of Miss Cora Edem
and Mr. Joseph L. Looper of Dacugville
Wednesday afternoon. The bride is the
only daughter of. Mr. and Mrs. A. L.
Edensiand is a young lady of culture,
besuty and pleasing personality. She
is a graduate of Carson and Newman
College. The groom is one of Pickens
county's Most influential citizens. Both
have friends in abundance who are ex
tending congratulations and hopes for a
peaceful vpyage on the matrimonial
barque. (The Sentinel joins in extend
ing congratulations.)
Saturday evening Mrs. H. Z. Jones
was the charming hostess at the Oole
noy Inn to the members of the younger
set, complimenfary to her guests, Misses
Verner Smith of Greenville and Nannie
Jones of Dacusville. Games, musicand
refreshments were the features of the
evening. Those present were: Misses
Mary Roper, frances Jones, Jessie B.
Edens, Pearl Sutherland and Cleo Hen
drix; Messrs. Prue and B. F. Hendrix,
Ellerbe Keith, Hovey and Dewey Jones,
Sam Jones of Dacusville, Roper, and
'Thomas L. Hughes of Greenville..
Mrs. F. R. McClanahan of Liberty
has returned home after spending a
with her daughter, Mrs. W. E. Edens,
Jr., whose children have been quite ill,
but are now improved.
Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Batson of Mari
etta spent Sunday with the latter's
parents.
Hon. M. Hendricks returned from
Greenville Sunday, where he is having
his eyes treated.
Messrs. Prue Hendricks and Ellerbe
Jones and Misses Hallie and Pearl Jones
and brothers, Easton and Hovey, were
visitors at Holly Springs last Sunday.
A singing was enjoyed at the- homE
of Mr. -and Mrs. A. B. Chastain lasi
Sunday afternoon. Among those- pres
eiqt were- Messrs. Hovey Gravely, Pru4
Hendricks, Ellerbe Jones, Earle Chas
taip, Ray Lynch and B. F. Hendricks
Misses Hallie and Pearl 'Jones and Idi
Prince.
- John Chastain, Hovey Gravely and J.
L. Looper were visitors at Oolenoy lasi
Sunday.
McDuffie Cantrell Dead.
"Duff" Cantrell of near Brevard, N.
C., died at the Mission hospital in Ashe
ville Monday night after an operation.
He was a former resident of this coun
ty, but moved to North Carolina about
35 years ago. He leaves a wife and
five or six children. Mrs. Cantrell is a
sister of Mrs. J. M. Stephens and Mrs.
Richard Baker of this county. Mr.
Cantrell was about 70 years old. He
was a man of considerable wealth." He
owned 2000 acres of French Broad bot
tom lands and years ago raised immense
herds of cattle and'sheep. By economy,
thrift and good management he acquir
his wealth. He had many friends in
this county who will regret to learn of
his death.
Dr. R. J. Giltiland Dead
Dr. R. J. Gilliland of Easley, one of
the oldest and best-known practicing
physicians in the county, died at his
home in Esaley Sunday night at 9 o'clock.
He was stricken with paralysis a weekE
ago while attending a patient. He was
56 yer~rs of age and during his long
practice did much charity work. HE
was never married.
He lived and died in the home of his
mother, Mrs. J. R. Gilliland, who with
two sisters, Mrs. H. M. Nicholls of At.
lanta, and Miss Nina Gilliland and one
brotlaer, William Gilliland, survive him.
Funeral services were held Tuesday
aftegnoon.
and at the close of his address he was
given enthusiastic applause. He alst
stated that he was coming back to Pick.
ens sometime before the election anc
speak again.
Robert A. Cooper was the last cand
idate for governor to speak, and hE
spoke with difficulty as the crowd wai
growing restless and beginning to dis,
perse. He stressed education and equa
enforcement of the law and criticiseE
the way in which scholarships and tui,
tions are handled at the state colleges,
Hie said that he wore no nian's colla:
and promised no [man any favor an<
that if elected he would,. have no pre
election pledges to fill. His was one o
the beat speeches of the day and we re
gret that It was not listened to more at
tentively.
E C. L. Adams and A. J. Bethea foi
lieutenant govervaor were the las1
speakers.
Governor -Manning was called fron
iackens to ColumbIn on accouant of offl
LOCAL AND
Mrs. .J. L. Valley and children are on
an extended visit to Hendersonville.
J. W. Harper, a prominent citizen of
Seneca, died. at his home there Monday.
Our good friend S. H. Maddox of
Central was in Picken Saturday an'd
paid The Sentinel office a call.
Mr. and Mrs. George Appleby of Jef
ferson, Ga., spent last week with Dr
and Mrs. Lawrence Roper of Picken
J. L. Hughes, the blacksmith, has an
interesting advertisement in this issue.
He wants your work and will treat you
right.
Henry D. Lesley of the'Griffin sec
tion has the thanks of The Sentinel for
qome of the rosiest, reddest, sweetest
peaches we have seen this year.
There will be a children's day service
at Twelve Mile church on the second
Sunday in July. Services begin at 2.30.
Everybody invited.
Misses Edna and Hattie Earle are on
an extended visit to their sister, Mrs.
R. A. Allgood, in Fayetteville, N. C.
While away they will spend some time
at Wrightsville Beach.
W. L. Pickens of Easley is announced
this week as a candidate for the House
of Representatives. He was in the
second race two years ago and made a
good showing.
Mr. and Mrs. S. B. Craig, of Pickens,
S. C., who were recently married are
spending sometime in the city at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Valley
-French Broad (Hendersonville, N. C.)
Huster.
D. W. Smoak, a prominent young at
torn Greenville, announces in this
issue .a candidate for solicitor in this
circui It is said where there is smoak
there is fire. This makes five candi
dates for the solicitorship.
Hon. Wyatt Aiken of Abbeville again
announces as a candidate for re-election
to congress for the Third district. Mr.
Aiken is well knoWn in this county.
having served six terms as representa
tive in congress from this district.
John P. Smith of Liberty announces
his candidacy for the House of Repre
sentatives in this issue. Mr. Smith is
a miller and a farmer and was a contest
ant in the race two years ago, making
a creditable showing.
Bennett Hill Powers, the young man
from the Keowee side who was in the
second race for treasurer two years ago,
is announced again for that position.
Bennett says he will be in the first go
go round, at any rate.
William M. Traynham of Nine Forks
has been awarded the contract to carry
the mail six days a week between Easley
station and Dacuaville for four years
beginning July 1. The mail leaves
Easley at 7 a. m. and returning leaves
Dacusville at 3.45 p. n.
The Enti'e Nous club had a pleasant
meeting last Wednesday afternoon with
Mrs. J. McD. Bruce. After spending
an hour with their needle-work the
members and invited guests enjoyed
delicious re fresh~men ts, which consisted
of a salad course and iced tea.
Claude L. 1Hester has been awarded
the contract for a period of four years
to carry the mail between Pickens and
Easley on Sunday, beginning July 1.
The mail'is scheduled to leave Pickens
at 10.45 a. nm., and on return leaves
Easley station at 3.45 p. m.
We call your attention to the adver
tisement of The Citadel, the military
college of South Carolina, in this issue.
A scholarship worth $300 is vacant from
this county and a competitive examina
tion will he held at the county seat on
the 11th day of August, 1916, to fill the
vacancy. Read the ad.
The Antioch Baptist church will hold
a home-coming service July 9. A most
Icordial invitation is extended to all,
especially former pastors. This is one
-of the oldest churches in the country,
being organized October 5, 1826. Din
ner will be served on the ground and
Ieverybody is invited to come and bring
well-filled baskets.
- There will be an all-day singing at
Praters Creek Baptist church the see
ondi Sunday in July. All lovers of good
music and also all good singers have a
t. special invitation to come. Some good
ingers from Liberty and otlier parts
are expected to-be. present. 41.1 come,
and don't forget songbooks and well
filled baskets. -x
PERS')NAL
Miss Bessie Robertson is visiting
relatives in Charlotte.
Anderson county was well represent
ad at the campaign meeting here last
rhursday.
Born on Moday, June 19, to Dr. and
irs. W. A. Woodruff of Cateechee, a
;on.
Dr. R. Kirksey killed a rattlesnake
ast Monday with seven rattles and one
ruttom. He says he can prove it.
The first cotton blooms of the season
ire reported by Elisha Youngblood and
W. A. Edens on the 26th and 27th inst.
Mr. W. J. Ponder and son, James vis
ted at the home of Mr. E. 8. Mauldin
ast Saturday and Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. Gary Hiott are on a
risit to Mrs. Hiott's parents, Mr. and
drs. R. E. Biggerstaff, in Forest City,
4. C.
Mr. and Mrs. Sam B. Craig have re
urned from their bridal trip and are
iow at home to their friends at their
iome on Anne street.
Mr. and Mrs. Will Bruce, former
'esidents of Pickens but now of Val
losta, Ga., are on a visit to relatives
n the county.
Those who are interested in the An
tioch burying ground are requested to
mneet next Saturday, July 1, and bring
the necessary tools for work.
Mr. and Mrs. C. F. Brookshire who
were recently married arrived in Pick
ens Friday, after a wedding trip to
Wrightsville Beach, N. C.
Knights of Pythias of Pickens Lodge
123 will meet at Castle Hall next Mon
day evening at 8.30. Each member is
urged to attend.
The Sentinel is in receipt of several
communications that are crowded out
this week, but which will appear in the
next issue.
Miss Vesta Ashmore, who underwent
an operation for appendicitis at the
Baptist hospital in Atlanta last Wed
nesdily, is improving rapidly.
The Oolenoy Home Demonstration
Dlub will meet at the home of Mrs. J.
A. Hendrix Friday afternoon at -three
s'elock." All members are urged to be
present.
Prof., R. T. Hallum is announced this
week as a candidate for re-election as
muperintendent of education. He has
served the people for several years and
ias served them well.
Dr. F. S. Porter was called to West
minster Monday to the bedside of his
mother, who had the misfortune to fall
and break her leg. She is 87 years of
age and is in a critical condition.
Congressional candidates aplenty were
bere last Thursday "mixin' with the
boys." Messrs. Horton, Dagnall, Till
man and Dominick were all here and
it's a pity they didn't get to speak.
They're all such pretty boys.
Hobbs-Henderson Co. have a page ad
in this issue of The Sentinel. Their big
July clearance sale begins Saturday,
July 1. Many good values are being
offered and you will do well to read
every word of their ad.
Mrs. G. R. Hendricks entertained
Monday afternoon in honor of Mrs.
Chester Harvey of Atlanta. The home
was beautifully decoroted for the occa
sion and during the afternoon more than
fifty guests called.
A. J. Boggs is announcedi in this issue
as a candidate for re-election as clerk
of court. He is well known over the
county and has made anefficientofficer.
"Efficiency is my platform," says Mr.
Boggs.
Mr. Blurkett, a representative of the
national commission of education from
Washington, D. C., accompanied Miss
Elizabeth Mauldin sto Oolenoy, Holly
Springs and Eastatee last week for the
purpose of studying educational farm
ing conditions of the people in these
sections.
T[he Pickens mill company is building
a commodious school building at the
mill village so as to give the children
better advantages in school. Miss Vir
ginia Ligon is the teacher and she has
already done a, fine work at the mill,
and now with better facilities she will
do more and better work. The citizens
will doubtless appreciate such kindness
on the part of the manaement,
From the Ambler Section
Little Ruby Mildred, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. J. B. Jones, received a very
extensive burn, reaching from the knee
up its side and out its arm and -side.
Its clothing caught on fire at the wash
pot. Dr. Cannon is the physician in
charge and we hope will soon have his
little patient up and about again. The
burn is not thought to be of great
depth.
W. A. Connelly and wife and son
Jerome of Easley motored in their car
to the Ambler Sunday school the third
Sunday.
The following new visitors attended
Sunday school yesterday, which made
105 present: Mr. and Mrs. Wash Les
lie, Frank Chapman of Mt. Tabor, Ru
dolph Hendricks, Dean Stansell, Delonia
Fendley, and Henry Edens. Rev.D.W.
Hiott and Rev. W. C. Seaborn prom.
ised us a visit and a sermon a good
while ago, but they have surely forgot
ten it. The work is all missionary, no
work connected with it, and all that is
done is for "love and affection." The
success of this Sunday school is due,
largely, to the faithfulness of Messrs.
S. P. Freeman, J. R. Connelly and Miss
Susan Connelly, who furnish as good
music as the country affords.
Miss Olive Mason, who has been vis
iting her sister and famil.y, Mrs. A. A.
Jones, returned to her home in Coner,
Ga., last Saturday.
Mr. and Mrs. T. A. Simmons and
daughter are spending a few days at
the home of the latter's parents, Mr.
and Mrs. W. T. Day. Elford Clark and
family also visited Mr. Day yesterday.
T. Trotter and wife spent Sunday
with the family of A. C. Smith.
Elbert McJunkin and wife of near
T- -elve Mile camp ground have been
visiting relatives in this community.
Mrs. T. H. House and daughter
Clare of Calhoun, Ga., who have been
visiting the family of A. A. Jones,
have returned home.
Miss Annie Mae Smith spent Sunday
with Miss Eva Cantrell. XYZ
Wreck on P. R. R.
Two coal cars and the coach on the
Pickens train were derailed on the fill
near the Mauldin brick house two miles
this side of Easley on the first return
trip Saturday morning. The cars ran
some distance after being derailed, tear
ing up the track considerably. The en
gine broke loose from the train and ran
on 50 yards or more, while the two coal
cars turned over and the coach was
headed down the emlinkment. Among
the passengers were three traveling
men, H. H. Yates, H.. C. Bare and A.
C. Wallenstien, who arrived in Pickens
shortly after the accident with Mr. and
Mrs. Will Bruce who were coming along
near the fill in their auto and stopped
and picked up these passengers. A lady
with a young baby who was on board,
when she got off walked back to the
Alice Mill. A colored woman was said
to have turned pale as a sheet. Julian
Hiott was a passengei on board; he
succeeded in getting to Pickens and is
recuperating. None of the passengers
were hurt but they admitted that they
were pretty badly frightened. The en
gine made the trip to Pickens bringing
the passengers and mail. A transfer
was arranged for the other two trips
Saturday, the gasoline work car being
used on the Easley end. By Monday
morning the track had been cleared and
the train resumed the regular schedule.
Singing Contest
Tr. Hi. Stewart, chairman of the chau
tauqua committee on music, requests
us that on Sunday afternoon of chau
tauqua week a singing contest will be
held. Each township singing conven
tion in Pickens county is invited to have
a class present. These classes will sing
in a contest for a p)rize. Competent
judges will decide the winners and an
appropriate prize will be awvarded. All
classes will have an equal time in which
to sing. The contest will be held In the
tent. Township presidents are requested
to notify Mr. Stewart of their Inten
tion to come.
Littleton College
Littleton College for girls and young
women, an adlvertisement of which ap
pears elsewhere in The Sentinel, has
made, and for more than 25 years main
tained, a very fine record. Hundreds
of her graduates, scattered over a very
wide area In this country and some in
foreign lands, stand only for that which
is high and good. Such like schools are
a blessing to any country.
Notice the ehdoge In the advertise
ment of thto Blattry, Easley,
Supt. Swearin
'.4i
ICKENS county is to bg on etulavt,
ed on the 44uc~to, ,al sp r t 99
pie and the fo'rward-Iooking attitude of
its schools. The county boasts of the
largestpercentage ofwhite~populatipn int
the state.' 'he An ida on blood may
be clearly. seen In'thei'hoinds' of
bright, healthy, clear-eydd boyq and
girls filling the schools. In the largo
majority of the dis'trict's -paren1s-and
taxpayers have voteO. a locaL Iqvy tb
secure better school facilities. But
these taxes need to be supplemented by;
state aid. There are in Picken ,county
a number of communities wich cAnnot
iecure an adequate school with modest
3alaries for teachers, although the peo
ple are paying an eight-mill school tax;
Martin, Oolenoy, Dacueville, . Peters "
Creek, Gates, and perhaps others belong
to this group.
The state is interested in the welfare.
of these children. The tern,extension
fund, the rural graded school fund and
high school fund have brought, and will
continue to bring, better facilities. Dur
ing the scholastic year 1914-15, Pickens
county received $10,610 state aid for its
schools; and of this amount the contin
gent, or equalizing fund, supplied $4,470.
The total amount of state aid for 1915
16 was $12,041. Of this amount the
contingent fund supplied $2,400. 'These
figures seem large, but many urgent
demands could not be met. The pro
gress of Pickens county schools requires
continuation and extension of this pol
icy. There is nothing too good for
these children. The voters of the county
should insist on economy in government,
but I feel certain they do not want
cheap, inadequate, inefficient schools.
The communities at Martin and Oolenoy
show what can and ought to be done.
The state department of education
stands for this policy. I appeal confi
dently to the Pickens county Democrats
for their endorsement. The ideal
the county superintendent, the paiot
ism of the trustees and the patient work
of teachers have helped to secure notable
progress. I shall ask the legislature
for an equalizing fund of $60,000 and, a,
rural graded school fund of at least,
$175,000. These requests and recom
mendations are based on the hope that
South Carolina will fix firmly her policy
of liberal state appropriations to the
public schools. If the rnajority of the
boys and girls are educated at all; they
must be educated at home.
Register Now'
To the Voters of Dacusville Township::
The books of registration will be found
at Williams' store. . You will have td"'
register or you can't vote.
By order of the president.
J. R. LATHE i.
Local
There will be a big Fourth of Ju
celebration at the Pickens mill village.
All kinds of races from the hundred
yard (lash to the '"tater'' race and
prizes given to the winners. In 'the
afternoon the Pickens mill base ball
team will play Glenwood. The contests
are open only to residents of the ml I
village.
Miss Floride Davis and Mr. J. M.
Smith of Easley were married Wedness.
day, .June 21, at the home of the bride's
parents in Marion. Mrs. Smith, taught
in the high school at Easley several
years, where her charming personality
won for her many friends. They will
make their home in Easley wvhere Mr.
Smith is engaged in the automobile bus
mess.
The following ladies were appointed
to chaperone the young people at the
Ivy Park each afternoon for tihe week
beginning Monday, June 26, in the fol
lowing order: Mrs. L. *Burtnett, Mrs.
J. P. Carey, Mrs. R. L. Davis, Mrs. E.
M. Gillespie, Mrs. M. L. Hamilton, Mrs.'
Lula Hallum. Those for the week fol..
lowing are Mrs. J. N. Hallum, Mrs. Ib.
W. Hiott, Miss Elinor Knight, Mrs.
Guy McFall and Mrs. Wayne Mauldin.
CARD OF THANKS
(;>rix or than~iks published for one-haltcn
We wish to thank our friends and
neighbors, also Dr. Valley, for their
kindness shown ns during the sickness
and death of our dlarling baby.
Mn. AND) Miw. M. M. SIMMONS.
We wish to thank our friends and
neighbors for the kindneag shown us
during the sicknes amnd death of dur
dear husband arid fa~hil also Dts. Por..
ter and Bolt fck theirtin9jeal d.
Mgs. JOHN
