ERALD
VOLUME XXXII
ST. JOHNS, APACHE COUNTY, ARIZONA, JUNE 29, 1916
NO. 44
AND APACHE NE
Minutes of the Board of Supervisors
(Continued from last week)
E W Grimes, gas, oil, and etc., for county car..... 29 95
Warren &Smithers, blacksmith bill.,,.,.. '. ;.. . .. : 7 00
Jas E Porter, cable 16 '20
Vidal Sandoval, labor 8 60
Joseph Stradling, labor 18 37
Concho Merc Co, gas, oil and etc. for county car 30 50
" trans labor Al Riggs 29 00
Juan Candelaria & Sons, supplies . . . . , 8 25
St. Johns State Bank, transferred labor 919 84
Becker's Garage, supplies for May and April...... 41 35
Gustav Becker, services for May ... 40 00
Becker Merc Co, transfei red labor and supplies 604 07
W 1 Burk 5 45
Burr W Porter. " " and supplies............ 863 36
ACM I " " ' " 58169
The Board adjourned until June 8th, 1916.
Attest: Levi S. Udall, Clerk.
June 8th. The Board reconvened at 8 a. m. there were pres
ent all members, Clerk and County Attorney, G. E. Greer.
In the matter of the Truck brot into the county by the "White
Truck" people for a demonstration, Supervisor E P Howell mo
tioned that it be returned to the company without further expense
accruing to the county. The motion was lost for want of a second.
The following State Road Tax Fund claim was allowed:
M C Morgan, dragging roads M W & B D section $44.62
In the matter of the delinquent-taxes against Geo. Scott for
the past three years, the treasurer was instructed to correct the
description on the land, and to cancel the assessment on sheep,
and to give Mr. Scott a receipt in full for his taxes upon him pay
ing what is due on real estate.
In the matter of establishing voting places for the coming
General and Primary elections it was ordered by the Board that
theEl-Tule voting place of the St. Johns precinct should be abol
ished; and that the following new voting places should be estab
lished; Richville voting place of St. Johns Precinct, Houck. vot
ing placejf-the- Adamana precinct and the Ganado voting place"" of
the St. Michaels precinct Long-H voting place of the St. Johns
precinct
This being a day of the regular June meeting of the Board of
Supervisors, next proceeding a primary and general election the
Board in compliance with Par. 29L7 Title 12 of the Revised Stat
utes 1913, proceeded to appoint the election officers and to desig
nate the polling places. It was further ordered that the following
Boards of election officers should serve for both the primary and
general elections; said primary election to de held Sept. 12th and
the general election to be held Nov. 7th, 1916. List of election offi
cers and polling places following, namely:
St. Johns Precinct, in the town of St Johns, the polling place
shall be at the Court House, the officers of election shall be:
Inspector, W. H. Gibbons. !
Judges, John H. Heap and Monico Garcia.
Clerks, Maggie J. Overson and George E. Waite.
Marshall, J. A. Mineer. ; x
Richville Voting place of the St Johns precinct shall, be at tne
School House and the officers of election shall be: . jf
Inspector, J. B. Richey.
Judges, T. R. Irwin and John F Sherwood.
Clerks, Mary L. Richey and Forrest Richey.
Marshall, Fred Nielson.
Springerville Precinct, town of Springer ville, voting place shall be
at the School House and the officers of election shall be:
Inspector, Thomas Phelphs. '
Judges, Claud Murray and N. Gonzales.
Clerks, John Coleman and John P. Lesueur.
' Marshall, Joseph Burk. -Eagar,
Voting place of the Springerville precinct, shall be at the'
School House and the officers of election shall be:
Inspector, Charles Crosby.
Judges, E. W. Wiltbank and Joseph Udall.
Clerks, W. L. Robinson and Orson Eas
Marshall, Graham Hamblin.
Greer, Polling place of the Springerville precinct shall be at the
School House, and the officers of election shall be:
Inspector, John Butler.
Judges, Sylvester Hale and H. .Nelson.
Clerks, Cleve Wiltbank and Lucy Hale.
Marshall, Marion Lund.
Nutrioso Precinct, in the town of Nutrioso, the voting place shall
be at the School House, and the election officers shall be:
Inspector, Orson Wilkins.
Judges, J. W. Lee and Marcellus Hulsey.
Clerks, Mrs. Ida Hamblin and John Martin.
Marshall, Asahel Burk.
Alpine voting place of the Nutrioso precinct, shall be at the School
House, and the election officers shall be:
Inspector, Warren M. Tenney.
Judges, G. Oscar Hamblin and Oscar Jepsen. -
Clerks: Parley Burk and Erastus Skoueen. --
Marshall, Leslie Noble.
Concho Precinct, town of Concho, the polling place shall be at the
School House and the officers of election shall be:
Inspector, Henry Marble,
Judges, Almond Riggs and M. A. Candelaria,
Clerks, Amelia Riggs and Juan Padilla.
Marshall, J. D. McBride.
Hunt polling place in the Concho precinct, shall be at .the W. W.
Sherwood residence, and the officers shall be:
Inspector, W. W. Sherwood.
Judges, J. H. Greer and A.H. Smith.
Clerks, Lillian Greer and Matt Morgan.
Marshall, Sandford Hunt.
Vernon polling place in the Concho precinct, shall be at the School
House, and the officers of election shall be:
Inspector, C. C. White.
Judges, Dan Pulsipher and Chas Gillespie.
Clerk, David Despain and Jas. H. Bannon.
Marshall, Jesse Marble.
Adamana Precinct, in the town of Adamana, the voting place shall
be at the School House, and the officers of election shall be:
Inspector, Chester Campbell.
Judges. Emmett Wallace and Bud Howell.
Clerk, s Jack Martin and Mrs. C. Lasater.
Marshall, Orvil Martin.
Chambers voting place of the Adamana precinct shall be at the
School House, and the officers of election shall be:
Inspector, George A. Woods.
Judges. Mrs. B. W. Porter and Burr W. Porter.
Clerks, :Mrs. C. A. Clark and Leonard Oleson.
Marshall- Clifton Hill.
Houck voting, place of the Adamana precinct, the polling place
shall be at Bennet's Store, and the officers of election shall be:
Inspector, R. Small.
Judges, Mrs. A. Fry and J. W. Bennett.
Clerks, Mrs. C. A. Curtis and Monroe Ashley,
Marshall, C. A. Curtis.
Long H, polling place in St. Johns precinct, shall be at the Home
Ranch, and the officers of the election shall be:
Inspector J. W. Mow.
Judges, A. L. Bunger and H. M. Kemper.
Clerks, ,Mjs. J. W. Mow and Thomas Jones.
"Marshall, John Beasley.
Chin Lee polling place in the St. Michaels precinct, shall be at the
McAdams Trading Store and ,the officers of election shall be:
Inspector, Geo. W. McAdams.
Judges, M. E. Kirk; W. C. Barton.
Clerks, Mrs. B. Goodwin; E. S. Crumm.
Marshall, G. E. Kennedy.
St Michaels precinct in the town of St Michaels, the polling place
shall be at S E Day (residence) and the officers of election shall be:
Inspector, Anselem Weber.
Judges, J B Foley and S M Paquette, .
Clerks, Ralph S Hicks and L L Sabin.
Marshall, J E White. ' ',
The Ganado voting place of the St Michaels precinct shall be at
Hubbells Store and the officers of election shall be;
Inspector, J L Hubbell.
Judges, F M Parker; Ralph P Collins.
Clerks, James D Kennedy; Mrs Adela H Parker. t
Marshall, Edward Daniels.
. There being nothing further to come before the meeting up
on motion being duly put and carried the Board stood adjourned
until the next regular meeting July 3rd, 1916.
Attest: Levi S. Udall, L. R. Gibbons,
Clerk. Chairman.
by "Walt Mason.
Tuxedo is the gripping smoke, a boon to every buyer;
you take your pipe of English Oe.1:, of meerschaum,
clay or briar, and fill it with the fragrant weed, the
choicest man can gather; and then ycu have a smoke,
indeed; and are you glad? Well, rather. Tuxedo
has no kick or bite, suggests no "morning after;" its
mission is to bring delight, and
fill your heart with laughter.
It caught the sunshine of the
south, when it was green and
growing, and brings that sunshine-
to your mouth, when
out the smoke you're blowing.
"Tuxedo's in a class alone," its
smokers are declaring; "it has a
fragrance all its own, that baffles
11 t A 1 .1 .
ail comparing. nd tnus it
grips the men who smoke, and holds their true affec
tion; their trusty briar pipes they
stoke, and never know dejection. (Jj7aAr
"Gulliver" Will Be a Candidate.
Orville Martin one of the best
known residents of Apache
County, has decided to enter the
race for the nomination of super
visor from the North district sub
ject to the action of the democrat
ic party at the primary election,
September 12, 1916.
Mr. Martin has lived in Aapche
county the past 25 years. During
all these years, he has been a
successful business man. This is
a good recemmendation for a
condidate for supervisor, as it
assures the people that if Mr.
Martin is elected to the office of
supervisor, he will conduct the
affairs of the county in an econ
omical and businesslike manner
and give it the same close atten
tion as he would his own private
business.
Mr. Martin has always been a
consistent democrat and a firm
believer in the doctrines of demo
cracy. As a good democrat, he
will, if elected, conduct his office
at all times in the interest of the
people.
ANNOUNCEMENT
To The Voters of Apache County:
1 hereby announce myself as a
candidate for Election to the
office of County Supervisor from
the Northern District subject to
the approval of the democratic
voters at the coming Primary
Election.
"Gulliver" "Orville Martin
Adamana Ariz.
Apple Deliglets," containing
over 200 recipes and printed in
exquisite style, in both English
and French. Besides the recipes
the booklet contained adertise
ments," reason for eating ap
ples," quotations, humorous
sketches, etc. It was judicious
advertising. It .brought results
very satisfactory.
Any judicious advertising will
bring satisfactory results. The
Canadian advertising cost money.
Any advertising will cost money.
But judicious advertising makes
money tor tne advertiser it
never fails to do it.
Bowel Complaints in India.
In a lecture at one of the Des
Moines, Iowa, churches a mission
ary from India told of going into
the interior of India, where he
was taken sick, that he had a
bottle of Chamherlain's Colic,
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy
with him and he believed that it
saved his life. This Remedy is
used successfully in India both as
a preventive and cure for cholera.
You may know from this that it
can be depended upon for the
milder forms of bovel complaint
that occur in this country. Ob
tainable everywhere. Adv.
Maurice Rothlisberger son of Mr.
and Mrs. Jonh P. Rothlisberger
of Eagar arrived in the city last
Saturday from England. Maurice
left some two years ago to fill a
mission in France, but owing to
the breaking out of the present
war in Europe he was forced to
go to England about a year ago,
where he has continued h i s
mission work until he was releas
ed some few weeks ago.
