r
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and warmer to-day and to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, 28; lowest, 17.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on pngo 13.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 187.
64 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, MARCH 5, 1916 t7o"i'ri'''" 1918 b the Sun printlM0 an puumo Aoauon.
FRENCH BREAK
GERMAN HOLD
ON DOUAUMONT
Berlin Admits Attack on
Villas- Was Only "Par
tially Repulsed."
German Correspondent, Watching Gigantic Struggle
From Distant Hill, Wonders How Men Can
Live in the Fighting Area.
UflKAT JJATTLK IS
HKACJ11XU CLIMAX
Tcrril'io Bombardment
Hotlr Sides Kept Up
Unceasingly.
TAIMS CONFIDENT
VICTORY IS CERTAIN
Gi'ii. iVtaiii Following Tac
tics of Ho Castelnau, the
"Savior of Nancy."
r,ruf Cablr Dttpatc to The Sis.
'. .s;N. March 4. The- French have
Hi.it.en part of the village of Douau-
mnnt. north of Verdun, after a nea
and rrolonscd artillery lire, according
to tho Herman official statement Issued
to-d.v. The Herman version or tne en.
couMtr .-ays that the French were. ' re
nu'.ed rat lis" In hand to hand fighting
and that they lost l.noo prisoners.
Tie contest for the village continues
flc ch. both sides swaying back and
foittl m the struggle, accordin; to the
I'rcndi official communique Issued to
',. which sava that the Germans
nere driven from the village by
Kicnch counter attack last evening, but
succeeded this morning in regaining- a
foothold. The French command tho vll
lage from tho heights to the south. In
lie view of the Paris military experts,
the French retain the technical advan
use and the Herman occupation of part
at the village can be only temporary.
Genuaas Caeeked la West.
The Hermans launched an attack this
morning against the French positions in
the ilols llaudrtiumont, eatt of tho Cote
sn inlvr. nn the west bank of the
Meu. The attack was checked by the
French mitrailleuse and rltle fire. .
The only activity reported from the I
Woevre, when, the Germans nan unaer
Uken a drive against Verdun from the
t. was moderate artillery fire on both
Idts.
Nu infantry activity on the erduu
fiunt was trisyrted last night.
The Mailt CumiuunliaP.
! if olli.ial communique Issued by the
h War Olllce to-night follows:
i Artols un enemy attack for the
j rpuM! of driving us from a mlno
1'iur which wo occupied near the
ini'lc-La Fnlle road was repulsed.
I th Argunnc wc cannonaded In
t, iffion southeast of VailcUOis
f .my ore animations and demolished
s-verjl slit Iters.
I the region of Verdun the can
l '..nlr was very violent throughout
ti lay on the left bai.k of the Mr use,
' Cote I!"! and lit the Cote do I'Olc.
'i thr right bank (of the Mcuse)
t i ti'Miiy iifter an Intense bombard
r it directed against the Bols llau
ii .imnont, east of tho Cote du 1'olvre,
I'Uinlivd an attack against our posl
t oii. which was stopped by our ml
InJIciisc ami infantty tire.
VERDUN BATTLE SEEN AS
CLOUD OF FIRELIT SMOKEm BLOCKADE RELIEF
U. S. NOT IN PLAN
British Scheme to Aid Export
ers Without Simetioii
Here, Snys Polk.
MARSHALL, IN RAGE,
DEFIES CONGRESS
l S. Attorney Charges That
Committee Heard Rogues
to Discredit Him..
House Again Fails to Give ! PLOT IN HOUSE
Special Cable tiupatcK to Till Sox.
Amsterdam, via laindon. March 4.
The Herman war correspondents aro al
lowed to observe only from a distance
what has been going on at Verdun.
This Is what the l.okalamelgcr't cor
respondent mw as he stood on the Lor
raine heights:
'Wo could overlook the Woevre plain
and see far behind In the background
that hell of smoke and lire In which an
unprecedented artillery fight for the forts
anj lortllled positions of Verdun was
raging, Clearly visible on the horizon
rose a bare ridge of heights on the
right bank of the river towering above
tne .vicuso heights, and In the valley
behind lay Verdun.
"At tho northern point, of this -ridge,
which was also the highest tiolnt, a
faraway garland of white shrapnel
clouds looked like the silhouette of the
fortrres which wc had conquered. In
the Immediate neighborhood of this for
tress of Dou.iumont the battlo was rag
lug with particular fierceness. Kven
from our distant point of observation
we could recognize this from tho white
powdery clouds which were wafted
hither and thither.
"Hill how can we describe the hell on
the height of the ridge to the left of
Dou.iumont. upon which for miles the
French artillery positions extended?
Upon them the lire of our heavy und
heaviest guns was directed. As high
as a house columns of dust, earth and
smoke lose from our bursting shells, and
it was almost Incomprehensible to us
that men could live there and tight."
hostile mosses In the campaigns of for
mer times but also from the great mili
tary actions of the present war.
"A lightning advance at a storming
pace here Is Impossible. The assailant
can only proceed hern step by step, at
tacking ami capturing position lifter
position, one point d'sppul after another
In regular turn.
"Tho whole, area north of Verdun
which was In the hands of tho enemy
Is a bewildering maze of formication.
There can be no question here of a rapid
onslaught ar.l overthrow or of the brll
Unit sectaclo of overrrtmnlng the
enemy again and again. One has to re
movo obstacles, blow up critical posi
tions, shell away forests, conquer de
fended villages and plaster excellently
fortified fronts with artillery prepara
tory to capturing them by the bayonet."
BUT MIGHT BE OK CSB
HE SEES BASE PURPOSE
Held to Be in Conflict With I Admits Ho Inspired Xcwspa-
Oovcrnmcnt's Stand on
Free Senx.
per Attack, Alleging Fro
Oertnau Purpose.
MUST GO SLOWLY.
to
German Correspondent Points
Unique Frstarr of Battle.
Special Cable Vetpatch to Tub Si-v.
Ionihs. March I. After the first
burst of enthusiasm over the attack on
Verdun the Herman press is quieting,
apparently anxious not to Inspire too
great hopes.
Or. Mjx Os-born. war correspondent
of the Murptn I'ott of Berlin, says:
"It is a battle the form of which has
no parallel in the history of war. It Is
different not only from the collisions of
LOSSES 200,000.
Hntlrr Herman Ratlallons Wiped
(tut, Correspondent.
SprcM Cable Dttpaleh foTine Scv.
I.ONP0N, March . The political cor
respondent of the Haiti Mall says the
results of the fighting arnund Verdun
are regarded witli tin- creates! sutlsfuc-
tli.n I
The I'ontarlier correspondent of the General Skinner had expressed the opln
(ill lv .Willi learns that the Herman
losses at Verdun III dead and wounded
amount to I'OO.OOO. Whole battalions,
he says, have been wiped out. Not a
syllable about the tosses Is allowed to
appear in the Herman press.
Washington", March 4.--Gtcat Brit,
kin's new plan for the relief of Ameri
can exporters from blockade restrictions
on bona fide shipments Into the neutral
countries of northern Ftiropc Is without
any sanction or approval from the Amet
lean Government.
Counsellor Polk of the St.ito Dipnrt
meat so declared this afternoon vv'tun
his attention w as called to a London des
patch printed In Tim Si-n this morning
containing nn Interview obtained by litr
Hun's Ixndon correspondent from lrd
llobcrt Cecil. Minister of Blockade. lrd
llobett said that while the new plan
dlit not represent any formal acre'inent
between the two Governments' It embod
ied tho suggestions of I'nlted States Con-
uul.f !njpnt HUlllMer lit liOlldntl.
Mr. l'olk addid that although consul
BRITISH HOLD CRATERS.
Sharp Mine Fighting Continue on
Front Xrnr Vernirllrs.
Stieclat Cablt Dttpatch to Tun Scv.
Loniion, March 4. The following io
port from lirltisli headquarters In
Franco was Issued to-night by the
official pres bureau:
Last night and early this morning
there was sharp mine lighting In some
mine craters northeast of Vermelles.
The enemy bombarded our trendies
while trying to capture tho craters.
All the craters remain In our hands.
The situation elsewhere remains
normal.
i,. nun Ki.mi. kiii'Ii nliiti might relievo
American rxnorters from considerable
vexation he had
Ui n partlculaily !
warned by the Stale Department not to
discuss the scheme with the British au
thorities or In any other way to api'ar
to, subscribe to the plan. Ixird llobcrt. In
his statement to Till: Sun's correspond
ent, referred to tls new arrangement
as the "Skinner plan."
Conflict With r. . Maud.
Mr. folk explained that Inasmuch as I
the United States has' consistently uemeo
the right of Great Britain lo hold up
any kind of shipment betweethc United
States and neutral countries It has al
ways refused to lend luclt officially to
any plan for exceptional privilege.
In line with the announcement "f l"rd
rtobert the British Kmbassy on March 1
gave out n statement addrrf-ed to all
British consular officers In the United
Stated advising them of the establish
ment of a special bureau which would
Issue certificated to American exporters
After the Congressional sub-committee
Investigating tho olllco of United States
Attorney II. Snowden Marshall had ad
journed Its session here yesterday noon
Chairman t C. Carlln received a tetter
from Mr. Marshall In which the United
States Attorney accused the committee
of nttcmptlng to ruin him and his office
by hearing In public complaints made
by persons who had run "afoul of the
criminal law." Mr. Marshall also ac
cused the investigating body of Inviting
tho testimony of rogues and refusing to
listen to the truth or to examine public
reco'ds to which the committee's atten
tion was directed.
Mr. Marshall's avowed purposo In
writing the, letter, which was his first
communication with ftie committee, was
to take up the cudgels for Leonard It.
Holme, a reporter, who had been ad
judged In contempt by the committee for
refusing to till where he got the basis
for an article written by him and pub
lished In his naner. The article In ques-
lion ret forth the supposed opinion of
the prosecutor s olllce regarding the ob
Ject of the Investigation.
ilaille llr Inspired Attack.
.Mr. Marshall not only assumed re-
Wilson Vote of Confidence
Administration Leaders in a Muddle as Action on
Resolution to Stop Armed Ship Travel Is
Delayed by Parliamentary Tricks.
REPUBLICANS OPPOSED TO THE "GAG RULE"
BRYAN NOT WANTED
DEMAND U. S. COME
AS PEACE SPEAKER OUT AGAINST KAISER
Invitation to Lecture in Brook
lyn To-night llesented by
Art Institute Members.
ONE OF THEM RESIGNS
I'lKhtlnic In lllaue.
l Hi,, morning the Hermans sue
ti "ded in regaining a foothold in the
v I'.ise of iMiiaiimout. from which we
r il driven them last evening by a
c mti r attack. The lighting continues
I ny with alternating advances and
' tvments for the jiossaislon of the
.IIriBe.
'n t'ie Woevre there was moderate
a 'vity on the part of the artillery
0! hntll slileji.
' i Lorraine, in the region of the
P'i- of Tlilaviille, alter artillery
P jural Inn. we took Severn I dements
c' i I'-tny trenches nnd about sixty
I nii'i", of whom one was an otllcer,
Lin inllrallUuses and bomb throwers
r ,ii 1 1 n 1 1 in our hands.
The l.criiiun Iteporl.
T e 'lermati statement issued In Ucr
11 1 'j-liy was as follows:
T.ir lighting lu the MiutheaH of
il l.-, has for the time being come
t" i nanilstill. The position held by
u- prior to February 1 1 is firmly in
' r -i.uhI an, I tile bastion Is In the
b ds of the enemy.
. r'.v artillery engagements In the
ainpagnu continued throughout
nl.i.. . In the Argoiino an enemy
' k fa led.
'i. Iiith sides of the Meusc the
I 'M. h lnireatcd trio uctivity of their
i.Uiy and after a great Increase
" ' volume of their Urn they at
I it 'I the village of liouaumont and
( ir lairs adjoining It. They were
r (iii'miI partially In close range tight
I g and siiffeieil heavy loss. We took
in i i. in I, mid uiiwoundi'd prisoners,
" ir the work of clearing the
I' ' letield it bar. Iiii ii ascertained
' 'if booty niKin hlnre February
a- bleu liMTcihrd from 117 guns
i i inai'liiiio guns to 115 guns and
' ,o blue guns.
ir i ibei hi'jit, northwest of i'llrt,
' nny attruiliti d in vain to re
' ie the position taken by us on
1' i try ill, Ills first attack sue-
o'l paitly In reaching our trenches,
' whii-h, however, he whh ejected
l "-'liately by a counter attack.
i- i iirtalii of tiro prevented a
' 'inn of the nttiuk from develop-
i - -1 1 1 in home plaeis.
I it enemy, after suffering losses
e- .ling of n great number of killed
i .vouiiileil ninl rlghtv prisoners, was
peili d to ieiie.it to his former
I iion,
. " I'n-iii'h a flii i, oou communl(u6
is follows:
i lioiiiliaiilmeiit which was main-
il wllli coiiKlderaldu activity last
' it i mi tho il Iff until Hectors In the
II. jii of Verdun nan not been fol-
Biooklyn folks arc getting all fused
up over the appearance at the Brooklyn
Academy of Music to-night of William
Jennings Bryan under the nunplces of
the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sci
ences. Mr. Bryan will talk on "I're
IKiredness." Although many who never
voted for the distinguished Democrat
and do not believe as he does declare
m,i nr ihe opportunity to
hear what he has to say. there are others
who "insist that the Institute ought not
to have extended to Mr. Bryan the priv
ileges of Its forum. One of these Is Rob
ert Alfred SImw. n director of the Acad
emy of Munlc. the Polytechnic nltute
of Brooklyn, the New Church I'ubllca
tlon Boanl und several Industrial cor-
1,0Mr!Shaw has filed with A. Augustus
lleolv, president of the boaid of trustees
of the Institute, n formal protest against
the Institute's action In Inviting Mr.
Brvan to talk oeioro u on no- -e
v uv pernio.! In the public mind. In
Is letter Mr. Shaw said: "To accord
Mr. Bryan the Institute ''"
to foster and encourage nil that Is un
dermining the Integrity of our Interna-
"""'A1 ."".I'le, lo the lecture of
the ex-Secrctary of Stale under the
nuspl.es of the Institute have taken to
wrl Ing letters to their home paper about
U and at l one PiotehtlnR rook
lvnite. W. L- Conner of 10..U Bcrj,en
htrert. Informed the editor that he hml
'desiring to send through the blockade to
iihe neutral Scandinavian countries "un
objectionable" shipments, mo state
ment follow ss
It has been represented to his
Majesty's Government that It would be
of service to American exporters In
tending to ship goods to Scandinavian
countries (Norway. Sweden and Den
mark) If before shipment they could
ascertain through some British authority
In the United States whether their pros
pective shipments would be reported as
unobjectionable under the iiriiu-n mm
tary regulations.
Plane of the llnrran.
"Arrangements have accordingly Wu
made to furnish this Information
through an olllco established provision
ally at the embasy which will be au
thorized to Issue to applicants In sati-
' factory cases certificates designed to
I facilitate the passage of their shipments
Carnegie through the British naval patrol.
( II Will require av imn a vw-eiv "r i-n
i da vt time to provide the necessary
American Rights Committee
men Call Meeting to I'rjre
Entranee Into War.
PLEAS SENT TO WILSON
A meeting will be held In
Hall on Monday evening, March 13, at
which nplea will be made for the United 1 machinery In the British Kmbassy here
Contlnuf-d on Fifth ragt.
tendered his resignation io the Brook-
" Jn?! "!! e;hl. nrivllece to Mr. B.yan
.. ,..t "hhnuld have been
, ,V , ; XuiiiltV to'suppoit the integrity
ot the international prlnc I'h's f r wl.li l
the President oi no "'
ln'." ...... n.n. r the Brooklyn In
. r ";,,: ,r ic st all over the
protests when a Stis man asked him
llllOlll I""". f , , ,, Il IS
Viy ro besahh "Wt w.t ,.
e lllg O'eii ' '
..... n-..t, .. .,,1 iiiHisevelt. Now
ex-Piesi.ieni '"-."",- ,,Anr Mr.
we have nil 0iisiriui,.., . - - -
.. ,v, h.ime subject. All ai
leaders of thought 111 their parties.
i. siltute dis-sn't In any way stai d
sponsor for what Mr. Bryan or anybodj
.v, hjVlo h.iy. We don't ask peilo lo
come and hear Mr. Bryan. Indeed they
n..ve to Pay lo hear him. Tlicro Is no
SMi-iV musiohal. will be fi h-d
'lirtln-ouYelthelVfn
should l glad to have him here.
VRYAN'S PKAci: STEPS.
Mil I'. . Xhoolil Xrl lUnnip h
HopilnK Arms lnUlnr.
Wahmin.itos. Manh L Avoiding any
direct reference to the light In Congress
over the question of warning Americans
t keep off armed merchantmen, ex-Sec.
retary of Pltnte Bryan told IlOO inenihers
of the lI'Miuomlc Club of this city to
..ii 1'W'l.at delllllti' steis tho United
Slates can take toward Insuring perma
According p Mr. Bryan, the llrnl step
should be for ine i iiii.-.i r-.i.. n. .
if neace by ileiioiini-lng Jin
goism and btopplng the manufacture of
"' "The'uiihwer." he wild, "to the lie
mand that Is being made for greater ex
..niwiinire for war purposes In that tho
American people will not approve now,
while this war Is raging, live ear con
i hm will carry tho war con-
tinctom on pant the time when they know
the bubble n w mr.
Stales to abandon Its position of neu
trality In the war and, as tho official
announcement. ptiran'M It, "take a far ad
vanced position In opposition to the Teu
tonic allies.
The call is Issued over the name of
the American Bights Committee, which
occupies headquarters at 41 Cedar street
and whose executive committee com
prises Heorge Haven Putnam, Uverett
Atilintt, Lawrence p. Abbott, w. K
Brlce, Frederic It. Coudert. Kranklln II.
Hid. lings. Lawrence Hodkln. Charles P.
Howland. Itlihard M. llurd. U. W. John-
son, II. dc Itaasioff, .lames II. Townsend,
L. L. IVrinan and William Kmersoii. I
According to some of Its members the
American Itlghts Committee is tho first
organization of highly responsible men
which nas come out llatly In support of
oeuei mat tne united states should
enter the war as an active opponent of
tne teutonic allies. According to the
announcement made yesterday tho topic
oi tne mass meeting will tic:
"vp condemn the alms of the Teu
tonic Powers, and wc denounce as bar
barous their 'nethods of warfare."
The speakers announced are James
M. Beck, ex-Assistant Attorney-General
of the United States; Balnbrldge Coll.y.
Judgu William II, Wadhams, Heorge
Haven Putnam "and other vpcaketa of
national reputation."
It is announced that the meeting Is
the outgrowth of a movement started
by tho late Paul Puller, who In spite of
his coe personal relations with Presi
dent Wilson lielk'Ved that the United
States should enter the war. Mr. Puller
died on November 2!, 1915, and his hist
work was, to prepare a memorial ad
dressed to the President, This Is now
being circulated lu largo quantities, and
thousands of copies nre being signed
and sent In tlin Willie House.
The memorial entreats the President,
"in the name of humanity." to "take
such steps us It may bo necessary to
safeguard American lives and property"
and to break off diplomatic relations
with Germany.
for the handling of the large volume
of business which Is expected to follow
from the establishment of the new-
bureau, and It Is hoped that the prei-en
spohslhlilty for the statements made In
the article but declared that In his In
terview with Holme he had accused the
CLiiimittcu of a lark of faith in the ex
pedition to this city, which ho asserts
was undertaken for the purposo of In
timidating prosecutors w ho had the cour
age to Indict Congressmen. He aiso
told Holme, he said, that Ihe committee
had been 111 too close touch with counsel
for David Slade and counsel for Con
gressman Buchanan, and that he be
lli veil every word of evidence had been
turned over to them. To turn over
Grand Jury minutes to the committee,
therefore. Mr. Marshall said, would be
tantamount to giving them to a de
fendant. Congressman C.irlln. after receiving
the letter at the Blltmore, said that Mr.
Marshall knew when he sent the letter
that the members of the committee had
separated preparatory to returning to
Washington. He also pointed out the
high reputation of some of the witnesses
summoned und added that he declined to
!. his temper. Mr. Marshall's letter to
him read as follows'
"Sir: Yesterday afternoon, as I am in
formed, your honorable committee or
dered the arrest of Mr. L. It. Holme, a
repren-ntiitlve of a newspaper which had
published an nrtlclo at which you took
offence. Tio unfortunate gentleman of
the press was placed In custody under
jour orders, Ho was taken o the United
States Marsha! to be placed In confine
ment (I do not undiTstand whether his
sentence w.n to be one day or n dozen
vears). Tho Marshal very properly Je
i-llnrd to re.eive the prisoner. This left
you at a lo"s and I am advised that you
tried to work our way out of the awk
ward situation by having Mr. Holme
. , . - . ,.. .t l... i "vu. il i.ii n .nil. iriiuiK null lllttl J uu
tatlon of applications .f' r Ihforma, ,,n . I Prv. .Ilsposc-l to be "kind" to Mm find
then discharged him for the purpose of
WAMttNT0s March 4. Parliamen
tary entanglements and discord amonc
the Democratic members effectively
barred the way to-day to prompt com
pliance by tho House of Itepresentatlvea
with the President's request for o vote
of confidence In his International policy.
After a series of hurried conferences
the attainment ot the President's) pur
poso appeared to be further away than
over and the obstacle that confront the
Administration leader were multiplied.
Tho only definlto conclusion reucnen
was that no action will be taken until
Tuesday on the McLcmore resolution or
any other measure warning Americans
to keep off the armed unipH or uei
llgerent Powers. It Is possible that the
llouso will delay action beyond that time.
Among considerations which led to
this decielon were these:
The desire of the Democratic mem
bers of the Indiana delegation to post
pone a vote on the question until tho
Indiana primaries have been held. The
absence of a number of Democratic
members of the New York delegation.
The opposition of llcpubllcans gen
erally and a number of Democrats to
anything that might be construed as a
"gag rule."
The parliamentary entanglements
which brought the situation near tho
ludicrous and which left the Admin
istration leaders undecided as to what
measures to take next.
Leaden In a Muddle.
Ilapld developments only seemed to
lead to greater confusion and at the
n.i nt ih dnv the House leaders found
themselves In a more difficult pssltlon
than at the beginning.
To-night the McLemore resolution, on
hleh the President demanded action. Is
not only shelved from a parliamentary
pjlnt of view hut It nas oecn even uuuh
doned by Its author, who In a statement
ssued to-day sayl It nas reauy
Its purpose without being adopted.
The recommendation of the Foreign i
Affairs Committee that the resolution be
tabled, having the effect of an adverse
report, was carried into eneci auto
matically without any action by the
House. The resolution Is now on the
table. Tho only alternative left the
AdmlnUtratlon leaders Is either to bring
up tlie lesue In another form or to go
through the ceremony of taking the Mc
Lemore :tolutlon from the table and
putting It back again.
In either event the President's request
tor a voU of confidence cannot be com
plied w:tli until Tuesday at the earliest,
one week after It wan transmitted to
the membereof the House Foreign Affairs
Committee.
tinno rtulrs Committee met thus
afternoon to consider th question of
bringing In a special rule, but after more
than two hours ueiiDeration arrnni '
onn-tuslon and adjourned until Mon
day, when the discussion will be taken
up anew. Suggestions, that a rule be
....n.l nrovMlnn for a direct vote on
the issue whether or not Americans are
t h vnrned not to take passage on
armed belligerent ships were rejected by
the AdmlnUtratlon forces. Ilepresenta-tlv-e
Kltchln, who made the suggestion,
en.m.i rirraved against him the Demo.
cratlc members of the committee, who
would not accept sucn a proposition,
TO HUMILIATE
WILSON IS SEEN
President's Friends Bitter
When Vote of Confidence
Is Again Avoided.
tho more nrdent Administration mem
bers of the Itules Committee and ad
journment wns taken without adoption
of a deflnltn rrocr.nnme of action.
Tho only plan now contemplated is as
follows :
On Monday It is proposed that a
member of tho 'Foreign Affairs Com
mlttcn will demand that the. Mc
Lemore resolution, as reported from
the committee, be placed on tho llouso
calendar.
On Tuesday tho Itules Committee
will report a special rulo giving tho
resolution privileged status to enable
the llou.v with or without debate to
put the resolution back on tho table,
whero it Is now.
Call It Joke l.eulslnt Ion.
Members of the House, with due re
gard to the gravity ot tho situation,
wero disposed to look on this ns being
very near an opera bouffo bit of legis
lation. There It general misgiving lest
it lie Interpreted In this light.
"What grave lmort," said a distin
guished llepulillcan leader, "can bo at
tached to taking a resolution fiom tho
table and putting It back In tho same
place?"
Kven In carrying out this plan the
Administration supporters run the risk
of a defeat.
After the parllamentaty problems are
solved and tha Utiles Committee h.iH ex
tricated Itself from the entanglements
SENATE TOO RETURNS
TO U BOAT DEBATE
Br.van Comes to Washing
ton and Urges Rovolters
to Stand Fast.
3IEMBEKS AROUSED
BY UGLY CHARdEQ
Negotiations With Ger
many Held Up Until Con
gress Surrenders.
WAsmxnTo.w March 4 An a riwlilt
of the failure of tho llouso of Itoprc-
whlch now Impede Its progress there Is 1 sentntlvcs to como to a voto to-day
a possibility that a motion to table the on tho issuo raised lietween tho Preal
rr.-miuuii win not on uiiopie.i oj un
dent iund tho opponents of lilrt foreign
policy in Conunwrt intensely bitter feel,
lnr; has be-ii aroused urnontr tho mip-
porler of this Administration. Thev
ippear to be convinced that tho Demo.
House. If the previous question were
moved and the motion sustained the
rule Itself would bo oiien to debate, with I
the result that the whole controversy I
might be opened lo discussion, n con- 1
tlngcncy which thn Administration !
i i . ..... . .....a.i
Republican opposition to tha Prml.lot.t will
erally are oppos-ed to u spi-clal rule ( go to any extreme to humiliate him.
without regard to tho purpos- to be i Aft f ( , . .
achieved by It. Th-re are at the same """ ror ,l
time a sufficient number of possible vo,pl House on thfl McLemoro
Democratic Insurgent votes to make the resolution warning Americans niralnst
situation perilous. If the fight centres . . . . ' ,
upon a prevloui question motion a repe- j-iui'h oi ocingcr-
tltlon of th famous Cannon rules fight ' ents and urransements had been pr
mlght bo brought about In the House, ' f(ct , ,,,,
with the consequences more disastrous to , a , '" 1L UMt ,,i'u,e fl a mark
the Administration than that famous 1 of confidence In the Pre Idcnt'H ahlllty
parliamentary battle had on the llepub- to conduct tin- forelm relations of tho
American exporters will bo detnved until
that tlmo has elaped,"
Willie It was insisted nt the State
Department that the plan has not been
examined by this Government and will
not In any case receive lis nlTlcial en
dorsement It s .idmltted that as u mere
Information bureau scheme :t may prove
of some advantage to Individual ex-porters.
BRIDE IS KILLED IN BATHTUB.
avoiding unpleasant
youiM-lves.
consequences to
Vtliti-U. Mi)trra, llr Say.
1 Von an- exploiting charges against
.ut Scntlmeat ot House.
The majority leader took the attitude
that a motion to tnble the Mclmore
resolution would not reflect the sentiment
i.f the House. In which respect It would
hA nnen to the Mine criticism a the
Kleetrlc Lamp Falls as Mir Itrads
and Chnrars Water.
Tolkpo, Ohio. March I.--While Mr
Josephine Bellows. was sitting in a
bathtub in her apartment and reading
a magazine as the tub was tilling an
electric lamp toppled Into the tub, bloke
and charged tho water with electricity,
killing her Instantly.
Neighbors lientil her scream hut found
the apartment locked, They notified her
father, who found his daughter dead.
The husband, Bertram It. Bellows, to
whom she was married ten months ago,
was on a train en route home from a
business trip. Mrs. Bellows was Miss
Josephine Chipp, daughter of a retired
merchant, nnd wan popular socially.
ASKS WILSON TO DIVORCE HIM.
lieorula
VI nn Ki-tnU HO t'riil
Jet the Decree.
her of voiir honorable body who I?
charged with a violation of law nnd of
oppressive conduct on my part toward
-hsstcrs In the blackmailing and bank
niptcy business,
"I may lie able to lighten your labors
by offering to resign if you can Indicate
untitling I ever did that remotely up.
proxlmates the lawless tyranny of your
iider of arrest of Mr. Holme.
'The supposed Justification of your..
older that Mr. Holme no placed In cus
tody was hl ref ileal to answer the ques
tion ou asked ,ih to where he got the
Information on whlrh was bated the
tirtl.-le which ilNpieiihed ou.
"It Is not necessary for you to place
any one under arreit In order to git the
answer to the question which you asked
Mr. Holme, because I call and will an
swer it I gave Mr. Holme Information.
.part -it which he published and from
vvhicili tin made deductions, so that If
our honoiable committee has a griev
ance It Is against me, and not against
him.
"What I told him was about as fol
nw h :
"I said that your expedition o this
town wan not nu Investigation con
ducted In good fdt Hi. but was a dellb-
llcans,
llotli sides Claim Victor j.
The postponement of decisive action
until Tiita.lay Is In the nature of a com
promise. Administration leaders frankly
found their way so beset with difficulties
that they were willing to pause for a
time to take their bearing". The untl
Administration forces were appnently
as willing to accept the outcome as their
victory. In the face of a parliamentary
tang!" which screened the real Issue the
anomalous situation of both hides claim
ing victory was disclosed.
Mr. Md-n-morc, the author of the re-t-o-lutlott,
Issued a statement to-day, in
which he said :
"The President Is repotted to be satis
tied vvltll the dl-poeal made of the p solu
tion by the Committee on Foreign Af
falls, and Its friends have no hiecial
cause for tomplalnt, as the resolution
I Government, opposition Intervened
that prevented action.
In the meantime tfio Senate te turned
.to Hie delsite nn the Mibject In con-tiovet-sy
between tln I'nwldiiit and
Consrifs, A disposition was exhibited
by tnemhviM of that lualy to Insist on
I another vote In m-iK-r that the ,Senut
might be kIvui an opportunity to c.
ptcs.s its M-ntlineiils un tho merit of
tile question as to vvhctlnr Americans
should navel i n merchant Hilpa In
view of the certainly that such travel
might linpeli'. the peace of the country.
Senator Lodge iiiMj-ted Into thn
record a htntemeiu Hum tho British
F.iiiluhsy m which emphatic denial wns
made that Gre.it Britain had warned
really has served Its purpose without!
lur MibjectN against travel on bel
ligerent ships at the time of the Itusso-Japanc.se-
war.
being adopted, The main object of the
resolution was to prevent tills country
from being plunged Into war with one
or more of the belligerent nations, slm-1
nli- W.nun nf th heeilll.si Met nf slime
Indiscreet American citizens, and I feel I Making a bitter att.u-k upim the Ad
Mire that this object has now been at- tnjilstr.ittoii. S niitor .M.-i 'iiiiiIht of
talncd. North lukotn, a It. publican number
Won Is Merits IILc iis.cil.
r n,,...j,.. n,ii,Ai i -iriinn inlten hv the Senate vesterday
I'"' " ...v...-, -ijj .
Kurlner complications wen- uu,-u, n-
sald. by the fart that the .Mri.emore
resolution Is badly irameu ami inai
many members might be opposed to It
in Its present form for technical reason.
If opportunity were provided for nn
expression of opinion, be contended, the
vote on the resolution might be different.
Sir. Kltchln found himself opposed by
There Is a possibility that unless Ad-
ministration plans are revised final ac
tion ill the way of a vole of eontldi'iiie
In the President may not be taken until
late next wtck. If a right should be
precipitated on Tuesday a
of the Foreign llel.itioiu Committee.
duiared "that the Senate action oC
yesterday In no way met tin, views nf
thn President." .iddlng that on tlm
K-6 IN DISTRESS; U. S.
SHIPS SENT TO HER AID
Submarine, Disabled Off Flor
iila Const, to lie Towed to
Key West.
Washington, March (.--Ilxeciilive eiate. effort to intimidate any District
clemency was put lo a new test to-day. . Attorney who had the temerity to pre
Piesl.lent Wilson lecelvrd an appeal i suit charges aaalnsl one of your hon
from a. man In Georgia asking fur lin-1 ornbln body.
mediate termination of Ills inati Imnulal
$3,000,000 FARM FOR COLLEGE.
sentence, He enclosed a inone older for
Oi) cents to pay the expense of getting u
! decree,
"We did not fall out : she Just
out," he wrote,
might not he readied before ndjoiirn
ment for tho day, hi which event in ail
probability the controversy would go
over until Thursday because of the
Intervention of calendar Wtdnesday.
ISELIN AUTO IN CRASH
THAT KILLS A WOMAN
decision merits of the proposal the Scn.ito hud.
Much i lies in
Near Cit.v Island Mis-N-liii
Hint.
Ohio
llnrher Will Glvr
Wenlerii llrnervo.
II to
nlkcd
Cl.i-.VKi.vNli. March 4. Ohio C. Barber. .
the wealthy match manufacturer, con
firmed reports to-day that lie would 1
present his :i,non.uon model farm at i
Barhertou, imio, to western Hi-nerve
University for an agricultural college.
"I hud planned Unit tile Anna Denn
farm should go to Western Reserve after
my death," said Mr, Barber, "but 1 can't
wait, lieeause til convinced i m going
to live to bo ino years old."
Mr. Barber Is now "I and recently ie
married, lie Is active now lu Cleveland
In promoting the new Kast Flfty-llflh
street subway. Olllclal announcement of
tho gift publicly will not be made until
the June commencement exerclseu at the
university.
When definite confirmation came from
Mr. Barber to-day President Thwlng of
the university would not discuss the gilt,
Warn Suedes tu Khun Armed Whip
STOi'imni.M, via Indon, Manh I.
The Foreign ITIi stated to-day that
.Swedish cltlr.i-tis have lieen warned
against travelling on armed merchant
men. AllilhTA M'Kt'lAli III) ' K. DAILY.
Alkeii wild AugUHtu, VUHOIITIIKMN HAIL
WAV, Drawing ami sutrruom ninepins ears.
Compartment ewr .tally to Augu.u Dining
rr r'j. N, i. Ofltce, lit rllta Ave.
JsV.i y
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SEVEN SECTIONS
AS FOLLOWS!
I'.KCS.
-General News Mv
.5sfvirtinff k?nnlt ' 1
FIRST
SECOND
ng, Kennels,
Automobiles , ,
THIRD
FOURTH
FIFTH
SIXTH
Socictv
Schools, I'aihioni
6j
Urania, iVlunr,
10
Pictorial Magazine . 4
Litltoguvure Supplement,
Ait ... . 8
Special I'eaturei, Booki,
Queries, Chen , . 12
SEVENTH-Vottw, Real Estate.
Grrdens, Poultry, l"inan.
cial, Problems . . 10
Total
64
RtaJtts or ntwsJtaUrs uho Jo not it.
tl(t all of Iktse tttUons mill tonftr a
Jam on "The Sun" by nolijyln Ihe Pub.
liealion Dtpaitmtnt at ontt by the phone
(2200 Bttbjman) and mititni uetlons
will b promptly JoritarJeJ 1 pontile.
l ulls I'riieeeillnus Irregular.
i said that Jour wholo proceedings
heie was liiegular and extraordinary:
that I had never hf.ii.l of such conduct
of an iini'i-aehiiieiil proceeding; that
iiaiges of this sou wero not usually
heal. I ill public tiulll the House of Hep.
reseiitatlves had considered them and
weie willing to stand back of them.
i pointed out to him that you, con
tuny to usual practice, had come here
and' had held public bearings; thnt
among our witnesses sou ihad Invited
every iokiio that you could lay your
hands on to come before ou und black
Kiiard ami slander me and my assist
ants under tho full privilege of testifying
before n Congressional committee.
"I told him that .Mill had called one
of my Junior assistants before you and
had attempted to make it publicly ap
pear that bis refusal to answer your
questions as lo what occurred In the
Grand Jury loom In the Buchanan case
I wiih dun solely to my ordert.. I said
that at the llmo you attempted to con-
' vey this public Impression you knew
that It was misleading because I hud
bien asked by you to produie tho min
utes of the Grand Jury and had been
i Instructed b tho Attorney-General' not
I to comply wllli your request, us you
well knew; I showed him the telegram
I of tlie Attorney-General to me nnd
showed hlni a copy of my letter to you
dated February L'S, ISltS, In which T
i sent ,M)ii a copy of the telegram of the
Coiilliiiiril mi Klxth I'ngr.
FLORIDA ft CAROLINA REMORTft
Four steel train, via short Una lo best
rrsnrli. .Seaboard Air Use, 1114 Bra4war,
Aiv,
ui.iiie.-nta.il. March I Another
American rubinarlne la In trouble. The
K.6. lately laid up for battery trouble
at Charleston. S. C Is reported In dlf
nrulllts oft the Florida coast. Although
the report, which came In a despatch
"Lu.Ja he the Navy Department this
afternoon from Key West, did not give
the nature of the trouble, olllceis of Ihe
i,.,r..,,i nf construction aim repair i-
lleve that either the batteries have failed
.main or engine trouble has developed.
The despatch read :
"IT, H. M. reoria anu me i nasi .w
cutter Tampa have been sent from Key
West to tow the IJ. S. S. K-6 to Key
West. The II. S. S. Panther Is In t dull
ness to proceed from Key Wet In case
her services are required, which Is pot
contemplated. P. S. S. McDonough Is
standing by K-6. U. 8. S. K-'l Is In no
danger and will be towed lo Key West.1
According to officials of the Navy De.
partment there baa been trouble gen
erally with the oil ooolltig systems on
tho K boats, with the rrniilt that the
engines frequently have got too hot to
operate, safely It was believed, how
ever, recent alterations hud remedied the
dlfllculty on all the boats of this class,
A month ago when four of the K boats
started fur. Pclisacola the K-5 was lost
from the others In a fog, but turned up
safely at Pensiicola, while tho others
put Into Charleston. The K- was built
by the Klivtrlc Ho.it Company of Fore
Illver and was completed about eighteen
months ago. Site has a tonnage ot -ion.
COMMUTED 500,000 MILES.
Fnlrchllds Travelled llrlnern .'. 1 ,
and Tarmlown for fill Vears,
Tarhttown, N, Y March I, Kdgar
Fnlrchllds, "3 years old, died at his home
In F.lliabeth street to-day of apoplexy.
He was stricken In Grand Central depot
on Thursday. Mr. Falrehllds was the
oldest commuter from this station. It
la estimated that he travelled .'AO, 000
miles In thirty years. II leaves wife
and two krothsm
as yet failed to express Itself.
In the nietiiiwlillo Itifident Wilson
In liiarMn time. Ho will make no rv
u to Geriii.iiiyV; recent rmtlco that
she will tun upon iiieii-h.inlineii urtm-d
for offence until tlio House has voU-d
down the .Mcl.einoi-ii resolution ,-md ho
has given full I'oiisldet-.itl.iu io thn
British "secret onlcr.." which aro ejt
imied to be receive! at the Statu Dc
urtinrnt to-mnrrovv.
With this iiifoniintl.iii In hand and
'tile Issue closed III Cungte.ss, Preside!!'
, WINon limy be ready to linii.l n replc
Ni"'llt Collision 1 " Ambassador von lleriietotif the hit
icr p.fil oi iie.M i.-k.
Indications niu that tint lloiisn w U
not vote on tint Mcti'more resolution
until Tuesday of net week, and possi
bly tho Joining of tho Issue in Umt body
may bo still further delayed, Indlfna
turn Is expressed' by Administration
leaders over tho considerations, that have
brought about a delay by Iho J louse It,
deciding thn Issue.
One of tho things that inltueu'Wl thn
llouso leaders to put off a voto was a
desire to savo tho Indiana Democrats
lu Congress from recording themselves
on tlm question In advance of tho nom
inating primaries to bo held lu thnt
State. Tho prln .irlcs will bo held on
Tuesday.
A woman was killed and a man seri
ously Injured early this morning when
the aiitoiiKiblle In which they were riding
collided lien. Ion Willi the nutomohtlc of
Miss Georgine Isvlln of Davenport Ni ck.
New- llochelle, daughter of the latr
Adrian Iselln. Miss Iselln was hurled
from one side of the luaihlno to the
other, but was not seriously injured.
The iicii.lent occurred Just oft the
City Island road on City Ihland, The
dead woman, Mi.ss Margaiet llyl.tnil, 2S,
ot Tll.len and lledfotd avenues, Brook
lyn, was riding with T vviirtcu New
come of Pl.untiel.l, N. ,1. Thomas Mc
tlrath, Miss lselln's chauffeur, was up.
parentl' unaware of the approach of the
car until It was close upon him, and
Newconie also .Mil not see tho Isi lin car.
The two cars lilt head on, lint tils
Impact threw them somewhat apait, a
cil-ciinihtain-e to which Miss Isellli proli.
ahlv owes her Hie. Newcome's car was
overturned, however, and Miss Hyland
was cnislm I un.lei li and Instantly
killed.
The Isehn r.'i' lo-pl ine I Mil, and al
though badly shaken up ami I'liil-cil,
Miss Iselln dirciteil M.siratli to take
Miss llyiand's body a d Newcoini', who
was badly cut. bruised mid Internally
hurl, to l-'ordliam Hospital. It was said
there that Newconie probably would Hie.
Miss Isellli alter making sure Unit she
could do nothing further leturne.l to her
home lu New Itoehi'lle.
Britain lulls Yoiinu VI nr lied V,-n.
l.osiios, March I Married men be
tweeu the ages of nineteen and twenty
seven who attested under the Derby
l-ecrullliig plan are callr.l to the colors
In proclamation pubilslii d to.ilav The
men nre uotllleil to lepori on April 7.
Till; l.l.llllllll s mil N'I'AINs or U lr.
VMS MIKril I VIIIII IN A "I III; ..Mi
III' Till-'. SKI." lie ii bed via fill TIIIIIIS
It.MIAV.W l.v .Nn Vnrl.il.ilb I (is I' VI
Drawing und sl.Hereiilll .lerplliL- iars New
V.-rli In Ashevllle KUcint linn Is. ilnlf.
Ire slid nlher nut.lnnr spurts N V Orelr.
t Klflh Ave .lift
TVnr Iteprlsnli nt Polls,
The Indiana DemocraLs tirgei.tly Im
plored the leaders to-day to stave off
the h-siie in order that tlmv might votn
with tlie Administration without tho risk
of reprisals at thn primary polls.
Another consideration tliat tcsulted In
tlie decision to put nlf the vole was tho
absence from ihe city of many Con
gressmen, notably u large number from
New Yoik lb pi i-.sent.il ivo I'ltxgenild,
tlie dean of the Nt w Yon, delegation
who is oppo-isl to Hi.. .Vilmiui.st ration's
foreign pulley, save nottm Hint If th
Piesldcllt - spiil, esntou allenipted to force
ictloii to-day li" would il-i cv.rvlhlntr
In bis power to caii-e dcliv. As M -l-'ll.gi
raid is Ihe most i siieit pnrll.-i-iii'-niailan
In the House llri iliri.it h;i I
gieai welglil.
A.lnilu : ii-atiot Ifadii admitted
to-tilglit Hi.tl i it-ol Ct.-I t' rf
feet actum in tlm llmi-i1 to-d.iv for
the leason that the party li.nliishlp li
Unit body Is at hi-ait ill odd with tho
Atlniliilsti'lil Ion on the men h indt -.- Issin
Tlie House prnbablv will not vote on Ilia
Mcla-nioic iivoliillitn .Monday hpcailo
Speaker Clalk refuses to permit tin
"unanimous conseiit" i.tlemlai- to be se1
aside Thi re is no olnia. Ie in the w
of n vote hi Tii"ili nulls, the oppo
sition, win-h was all Inlliie illal to.ilav.
shiniltl Insist ui'iiii nioie Inn. Wednes
day Is sei asitli for spccil Imslne-s.
Should lilt House lad lo i. i'liesday
no in-iloi. could be t ken ". tin Mrl.n
tnoie lesolulton Wednesday
There Is a strong pnsmliii.iv li.it a
vole mnv be ilefrni.1 un'.l Thin-d.is
