Tha Sun
Always 8r.ina
Fineat
Winter Climate
In tha World
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTil YEAR
21 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, MARCH 5, 1916
21 PAGES
VOL. XXVI. NO. 291
Th Arlxona
Republican,
Full
Laaaed Wira
At P. Report
ARTILLERY STILL HAMMERING
AT THE GATES OF VERDUN
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The German armies lit the Kates of
Verdun are hammering them hard with
henvy artillery but at latest accounts
bud suspended infantry attacks. In the
last fighting reported the initiative was
on the side of the French, who des
perately drove back at the Germans in
a counter attack that sained them
ground. The German thrusts in the
new phase of the titantic struggle are
being delivered with heaviest force at
present on the salient to the northeast
of the fortress in which lies the Douau
mont plain. Here the French last week
were driven out of Fort Douaumont and
just now from Douaumont village, to
the west.
In and around the village the battle
has been raging with violence and with
heavy losses on both sides. I'nofficial
accounts assert that there has been
nothing on the western front to etial
the ferocity of the attacks delivered by
the Germans, while the French infan
try is declared to be 'disputing every
inch and in their latest effort to have
forced the Germans to rest on the
laurels so far won and leave the con
tinuation of the battle to their artillery.
Paris advices show that no doubt re
mains in the minds of the French that
there is nothing in the nature of a feint
in the German effort, the belief exist
ing that the crown prince has determ
ined to capture Verdun, and if possi
ble break through the French line and
open up the way to Paris.
There has been some fighting furth
er south on the line in the west, the
Germans reporting the repulse of a
French attack in Lorraine, in which the
French had some initial success, but
were forced to relinquish the ground
taken. Elsewhere there has been com
paratively quiet, while from none of
the other European war fronts is events
of moment reported.
The Russian occupation of Hitlis, in
Turkish Armenia is regarded in Petro
grad as a development of first rate im
portance, opening further the way to
P.agdad for the Russian armies. That
goal is a long distance away yet from
the Russians headed" southward toward
Mesopotamia, but the military observ
ers already have mapped out the prob
uble routes for Grand Duke Nicholas'
armies, in the 400 miles stretch to a
junction with the British on the Tigris.
In addition and of more immediate
interest is the bringing out of the point
That the Turks now will be greatly
hampered in bringing up reinforce
ments for their army that met defeat
at Krzerum. and is retreat'.. ig westward,
while the southward thrust by the Rus
sians has drisen a wedge between the
Turkish forces around lake Van in Ar
menia and those operating to the east
in Persia.
On the naval side of the conflict the
German admiralty has reported the
Kinking of two French auxiliary cruisers fess to see in the arrival in the capl-;went into the fight and a veritable
and a British patrol boat, while from tol of William Jennings ,'iryan, who slaughter of the enemy was their re
the Mediteranean comes the report of filled a speaking engagement here ward. There were stacks of the en
thc sinking of the Italian steamer Gia- tonight, a development whic h might jemy dead right up against our barb
va, a 2600 ton bout by an Austrian sub- further complex the situation con-jed wire entanglements. Fierce fight
marine. Unofficial denial of the Ger- fronting the president's supporters in ing at close ciuarters and in some
man claim to the sinking of two French , the house. Mr. Bryan conferred dur- . places hand to hand engagements
warships is madv in I'aris. j ing the afternoon with many of his gave us at some points the advan-
friends, including some members of tage. Nevertheless the Germans came
Reports Craft Sunk congress, and discussed the movement back to the charge again with fresh
BERLIN. March 4. (by wireless to
Tuckerton, N. J.) The (ierman ad-
miralty reports that on March 1 Get- j however, as did those with whom het 6 o'clock and it was as determin
man submarines sank off Havre two , talked, that he was on the ground to ed as the first, if not more so.
Flench auxiliary cruisers, each armed help organize opposition to the presi- "A little after this I was wounded
with four canon, and one British patrol dent's desires. in the hand by the explosion of a
boat at the mouth of the Thames. House leaders advanced many rea- .shell, but in spite of this injury and
The French man of war sunk on sons in support of their decision before being carried away from the
February 8 off the Syrian coast was against a vote today or Monday on ' field of battle, I was able to take
not the Suffren. jthe receommendation on the foreign note of the good work done by my
The loss of the Aimial Charner was affairs committee that the McLemore ' men. Their aggression throughout
armed cruiser Amiral Charner, as re- ! resolution be tabled. Prominent among. the day's fighting had been marvel
ported by the returned submarine.- them say the failure of the rules oils.
The loss of the Amiral Charner was committee to agree, after a long ses-j -n in a fact that we sustained
confirmed on February 14 by informa- ' sion. on what sort of rule should be losses during these actions, hut our
tion received by the French ministry'
of marine. A sailor picked up off the
coast of Syria reported that the war-
sl ip had been torpedoed. After it was
(Continued on Page Seven)
Monastir G reek ConsulTells
of Hardships of Ameri
cans in Bulgaria
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATHENS. Feb. 29 ( via Paris)
March 4. John Yushuf. the former
Greek consul at Monastir. confirmed
reports of the mistreatments of Dr.
Henry Forbes. Mrs. Walter Fnrwell
and Miss Mitchell by Bulgarian sol
diers, when he arrived here this
morning carrying a message to Gar
rett Droppers, United States minis
ter to Greece, from the three intern
ed Americans? in which they begged
that the state departmept make ef
forts to obtan their release. Ac
cording to Yushuf the three were or
dered to go to Sofia from Monastir
on February 9. He reported that Dr
SAYS WICA1S
1
Forbes was ill and that all three had j grants. economy In the strength o fthe de-
undergone so many hardships that According to reports the approach- . fending force, through sagicious re
they were most anxious to leave 'ng freight train, in violation of the coji, has counted heavily in the check
Bulgaria.
Dr. Henry Forbes is a resident of
Poston and is attached to the Ameri- !
can Red cross. airs, rarweu is a
war correspondent of Chicago. They
were reported to have been attacked
by Bulgarian soldiers, who forcibly
entered the American Red Cross hos-
pital at Monastir last December. They
were refused permission to leave for
TO MAKE DEMANDS' FOR
SINKING OF PETR0L1TE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, March 4. The,"" American nag; mat ne ureu
United States is preparing to make
formal demands upon Austria-Hungary
as a result of the attack by
an Austrian .submarine upon the
American tank steamer Petr'.lite. A
note on the subject will be dispatch
ed within the next few days.
It was authoritatively
stated to-:
night the United States would stand (They have declared In affidavits that
by its original contentions and ask j the Petrolite was stopped in the
an apology for the attack, punish- Mediteranean by an Austrian sub
ment of the submarine commanders, marine which fired a number of
and reparation for the damage done I shells at her; that the submarine
to the vessel and injuries inflicted j commander asked for food, which the
on a member of the crew, who was icommander of the Petrolite refused
hit by a piece of shell.
In reply to the first American.com- er of the submarine then held one s(,ni,urfr Colo., could not collect
munication on the subject, Austria j of the members of the tanker's crew 'compensation from their employers,
informed the state department that .as a hostage while his men went;umier tne newy created compensa
its version of the affair was that the aboard the ship and took such stores tion .lws.
submarine commander thought the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. March 4. The
house again today postponed action
on proposals to warn American citi
zens not to travel on armed mer
chant ships, defeat of which ha,s been
requested by President Wilson to
strengthen his hands in the negotia
tions with Germany. It was decided
that not before Tuesday would a
vote be taken and a wearing day of
conferences and maneuvering left
more doubt than ever as to Just
what form the house action, when
the time finally came, would take.
Supporters of the president in his
stand for the right of Ameiicans to
safety aboard merchantmen bearing
arms reiterated tonight that there I
Nil H SHIPS
WARNING VOTE
IN THE HOUSE
was no uncertainty that the house ijsts showed great bravery, but not
sooner or later would follow the lead withstanding the courage of the en-
of the senate in killing the warning
1 proposals. Some representatives pro -
for a congressional warning, which
i he is known to favor. He denied.
! brought into govern debates. Acting
Chairman Pou and Representative
Garrett of the committee, went to
the White House tonight to discuss
I'
(Continued on Page Eight)
Train Standing on Siding is
Struck by Another in
Minnesota
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MINNEAPOLIS. Minn., March
, Three men were killed and five other
. persons slightly injured when a
freight train, standing on a siding,
was struck by another -freight train
on the Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis
ana umana rauroaa near .viouniain
Lake, Minn., today.
The dead:
ALBERT I'TECH. James. Iowa.
M1CHP'I. WI'AVRR Flhworth '
Minn.
C. A. ROW, Sibley, Iowa.
All were occupying a caboose at
the end of a train, which carried a
shipment of household goods of immi -
TUBE DIE WHEN
FREIGHTS CRASH
rules, am not siacKen speea oeiore f the Germans after their 2 in
reaching' the siding, and crashed into fantry attacks. Forces so important
,the caboose filled with immigrants.
creece snoruy aiier uie aura, aim
on February lb it was reported they
I had been released by the Bulgarians
j and had gone to Sofia.
On January 17 it was reported thsji
j Miss Mitchell was being detained in
( Monastir by the Bulgarians.
Petiolite an enemy ship disguished
ion the vessel because he believed it
iwas about to run his ship and that
the commander of the Petrolite vol-
untarily furnished provisions when
j asked to do so.
The state department since has se
cured information from the captain
and crew of the Petrolite directly
contradictory to the Austrian version.
to give him, and that the command-i
as they desired
S
y
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS. March 4. A captain of
French chasseurs describing a Ger
man attack near Douamont, March
2, tells the following story:
"German forces on Thursday along
a front of three mil's delivered a
furious attack within the village of
Douamont as the principal objective.
Detachments of two German divis
ions brought into the zone of fight
ing threw themselves against our or
ganization. This movement began at
4 o'clock in the afternoon and had
been preceded by a bombardment of
indescribable intensity.
I want to say that our antagon-
emy. the Frenc h chasseurs once again
lived up to their reputation. They
companies of men.
"The second attack began precisely
I casualties were much under those of
the enemy.
The determination of he German
attacks on the village .of Douaumont4
are explained by the strategic ad
FRENCHMAN
T
GERMAN M
.... .i. j.FW
vantage of the height to the south
held by the French, barring the way
to the bastion and fort. The vil
lage itself, composed of about fifty
houses, now is only smoking ruins.
It is dominated, together with the
ravines at the foot, of the advanced
bastions of the fort bv the French
batteries massed on the plateau and
heights in the rear, so that the in
stant the Germans came to the clear
ing from the woods and ravines they
are immediately exposed to a galling
fire.
All reports reaching Paris represent
the French "troops in the highest
spirits, with ample reinforcements in
reserve for all eventualities. The
defense .lines around Verdun thus far
have been assured by the troops of
the Verdun sector without the in-
tervention of strong reserves, avail-
'a,le in case of need.
xhp apprehension ' caused in Paris
. )V the srollnu sjven up to the Ger-
mans In the first battle has disap -
peared under analysis, the public be-
ing reminded that field strategy
sometimes requires that forces retire
in order to advance, ns in the case
of the battle of the Maine. The
military critics hold that with a
heavy loss of men the original French
.iinp mjght have been maintained, and
as those launched against Verdun, it
is urged, must have lost spirit when
stopped after so many, courageous
after so
assaults.
The French public looks at the sit
uation in this way, attributes to that
fact the early interruption of the
second bnttlp nnd qhnwa mmnrlrnlitii
confidence in the eventual outcome.
BABY WEEK STARTS
ALL OVER COUNTRY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, March 4 Baby week
in the United States began today
under the auspices of public health,
civics and home economics commit
tees of the general federation of uo
mens clubs. The purpose of the
campaign is two fold to give parents
a chance to learn how to care for
their children properly, and to bring
home to everyone in each community
fails relating to the babies and the
need of ixrmanent work for their
welfare.
Throughout the country there are
to be child welfare exhibits and the
systematic distribution of informa-
tion al)out the lowering of the death
rate among children and about the
proper methods of feeding infants. In
New York a one day convention
next Thursday will be held by the
city federation of womens clubs, at
which child welfare will be discussed-.
o
PECULIAR RULING BY
COLORADO COMMIS.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENVER, Colo., March 4 The
state industrial commission today
held that relatives of Avelo Espinoza
and Joe Ramos, who we're found
murdered recently in a mine at Wal-
Fred C. I'artle, who, while attempt
ing to 'transfer a "billy" goat from a
delivery wagon to a barn, sustained
an injury', is entitled to compensa
tion therefor, the goat chased name
some distance. His injuries were
confined to a damaged instep
BANK BANDITS ARE
FOUND VERY GUILTY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, March 4. The four
bandits charged with robbing the
Washington Park National Bank of
firi.ono recently, were found guilty
tonight. Deliberations of the jury
were brief.
Conviction carries with it sentence
nnd"r the indeterminate law of from
one year to life imprisonment.
The convicted men are Charles
Kramer. Harry Kramer. Harry Fein
and Alex Brodie.
Ecldie Mack, the fifth bandit, turned
slate's evidence and was not prose
cuted. POLICEMAN KILLED
BY UNKNOWN BANDIT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OAKLAND, March 4. While walk
ing along a crowded street under ar
rest here tonight, an unidentified
m;in, believed to be a footpad, sur
reptitiously drew a revolver from his
hip pocket and by reaching around
behind him, shot in the back and
fatally wounded his captor. Robert
1-'. Gushe, a patrolman. The dying
officer exchanged several shots with
hi:i fleeing assailant, but the latter,
e.p; arently unhit, escaped.
FOR STATEWIDE PROHIBITION
Republican A. P. Leased Wlrej
RICHMOND. Va., March 4. The
lower branch of the Virginia general
assembly tonight passeel the state
wide prohibition bill ST to 3. The
bill had passed the senate. One
quart of whiskey a month a person
is the limit placed by the bill on im
portations of intoxicants from other
states. The law will go into opera
tion November 1, 11(16.
o
In Presence of Worshippers
Woman Slays Priest for
Alleged Wrong?
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. PAUL, March 4 In the pres
ence of several worshippers the Rev.
Henry Jajiski, aged 50, pastor of St.
Cassimir's Polish catholic church
here, was shot and instantly killed
at the church tonight by Agnes Dii
deke, years of age, who told the
police the priest had wronged her.
The woman entered the church
shortly before the evening service
was to begin. The priest sat near
the altar. Advancing rapidly down
the center aisle, the woman fired five
shots, two taking effet and result
ing in instant death.
Threats of violence against the wo.
man were made but an open ont-
( break uas not made and she was
taken to the police station, t'nder-
Ftaiiding nothing but Polish, the wo
man could not be questioned until an
Interpreter had been obtained.
Mrs. Dudeke lives in Minneapolis
and attended the church there that
Father Jajoaki served for 20 years
before coming to the local parish
about two years ago. A nephew of
the priest said tonight the woman
had annoyed his uncle for several
vears and that the latter had thought
her demented.
Tre woman speaks only Pcdish, but
through an interpreter told the police
that she had spent her "last cent for
a revolver" with which to kill Jajeskr,
and that she came here from Minne
apolis tonight to commit the act.
She is being held on a charge of
murder.
POLISH PRIEST
OORPSTEIN, YOUNG,
JONES, OISNEY ARE
NAMED; WOODS "IN
Peter Corpstein and George V. Young
were nominated lor the mayoralit;'
election, Franl: Woods was elected to
the commission and James Jones and
Claud W. Cisney were nominated for
commissioner in yesterday's primary.
About 75 per cent of the registration
was polled, the total vote for mayor
being 3.560, out of a roll of practically
4,9l voters.
The election was unusually quiet,
developing no thrills and few notable
features. The election at this ballot
ing of Frank Woods for commissioner
was not unexpected, nor was the po
sition of Mayor Young below Mr.
Corpi.tein a matter for great surprise. I
The Corpstein lead was predicted be
fore half a day had passed.
The ballots at the coming city elec
tion will carry the names of Corpstein
and Young for mayor and those of
Jones and Cisney for the remaining
urfilled commissionership. Jones and
Cisney ran very close together, there
being a dMference of only six votes.
Woods' total was On Ibe basis I
.u ...... i. 1 -vi I
votes to elect. His majority is 41S. I
Corpstein, on the other hand, needed
2X4 votes more to have been elected, (liana, aim nunois win m.iuc anouie.
Harry Kav developed his greatest ' attempt Monday to settle their dif
strength in the first precinct of the j Acuities. The miners made another
second ward, where Young ran third. proposition to the coal companies to
Day Passes Quietly. i ,1a' which was not accepted. In the
Election day passed very quietly. At j nTe that an agieement may be ar
no voting place was there any per- ' rived at Monday the anthracite con-
etptible clash. Voters were "got out'- !
in the usual manner, all candidates j
having their workers busy
automo
biles conveyed many to the polls. It
was evident quite early that the vote
would be extremely light, even in view
of the light registration.
For the coming election, there wi'I
be a supplementary registration, and
it has been piedicted that the various
elements will in the irtterim, so con-
du't thir campaigns that the final
popular decision will, indeed, be a pop
ular one, with a much heavier vote
o o
c c
o o
,S -oi T t! 7 -p
!;q: - j -
i-o 5 5
w- -m eg i- cj "C x Q
n n c c c . y
t- cj cm co Tt K
For Mayor
Ueo. C. Young. ..187 2:13 230 172 127 72 1021-
Peter Corj .stein.. 279 24(5 272 212 280 208 1497 '
K. .Johnson 1G 43 14 1( 29 17 135
Harry Kay 127 Kit 244 122 122 ifi (X31 !
For Commissioner
MI. Kcddington 95 1.55. 115 Hi 98 45 (i04
Frank Woods ....3(i8 387 417 320 43-3 271 2198
'. W. Cisnev 288 230 21 178 278 237 1472
I. C. (Jil)l.s 87 132 95 111 83 2b" 534
li. T. (HUett 93 104 189 (i9 39 23 517
Jas. A. Jones 2lil 308 411 244 172 82 1478
Ward Totals.... (i25 692 770 530 577 3GG 35G0
6A1S0N PUN IN NEW GUISE
IS BROUGHT BEFORE SENIT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Match 4. The first
of the national preparedness meas
ures to reach either house of congress
for consideration was introduced in
the senate today by Senator Cham
berlain, chairman of the military
committee which perfected it after
weeks of hearings and conferences.
It proposes an even more sweeping
change in military .policy than that
outlined by President Wilson in his
annual message, and was described
by Mr. Chamberlain as the most
comprehensive piece of military leg
islation offered in congress.
All the elementary administration
irmy plan prepared by Former Sec
retary Garrison are retained, although
in altered form.
The house oVimmittee's bill will be
intioduced Monday. There is no vi
tal difference between the two meas
ures. Aside from its plan virtually to
double the regular army and National
Guard, the senate bill has four strik
ing features. They are: Authoriza
tion of a purely federal volunteer
force in peace times: the object
sought by Secretary Garrison in urg-.
ing the continental army plan.
Authorization for a definitely en
listed reserve in peace times among
men of every profession of calling
whose training fits them for special
duty either with troops, on lines of
communication or supply, or in ma
chine shops and munition plants.
Federalization of the National
Guard under a pay provision designed
to bring this force immediately into
ruch relations with the federal gov
ernment that its training, equipment
and personnel will be under super
vision of the war department.
Authorization for an officers' re
serve and a reserve officers training:
corps which would take in graduates
from military schools and colleges
and provide for their further' develop
ment to command.
For the regular army the bill pro
LA FOLETTE WILL
BE A CANDIDATE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MADISON, Wis., March 4. Peti
tions for plac ing the name of Senator
Robert M. La Follette on the official
ballot as a candidate for the repub
lican nomination for president and for
placing Ibe name of 26 La Follettee
candidates for delegates to the re
publican national convention were
filed in the office of secretary of
state today. Nomination papers for
candidates for delegates to the demo-
crane
national convention also were
filed. The ticket is headed by Wood
row Wilson for president and
Thomas R. Marshall for vice presi
dent. o
TROUBLE BREWING
FOR MINE OWNERS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, March 4. Soft coal
aerators and union mine workers
from western Pennsylvania, Ohio, In-
ference fixed for that afternoon
been postponed until Tuesday.
has
rind much more interest in the pro
ceedings. Returns, justifying the hopes of the
Woods supporters and assuring no
election in the mayorality fight, were
available two hours after the close
of the polls, but the complete count
I was not made ip until 11:30. when
the first precinct of the second ward
was totalled. This chanced to be the
heaviest precinct in the city
vides a peace strength within five
years of 178.000 men of all arms, or
approximately 16.1.000 fighting tVoops.
The percentage of men in each com
pany, battery or troop at peace
sirengm would lie increased in the resentatives agreed to co-operate in
interests of efficiency and the full j preventing Mexicans from infected dis
war strength would be 22.-..0O0. I (Continued on Page Eight)
THE FRIENDS 0
F
New National Organization
Formed by Americans of
Irish Extraction
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YARK, March 4. A new na
tional organization to be known as the
"The Friends of Irish Freedom"
was formed here tonight by promin
ent Irishmen from all parts of the
country in attendance at a confer-
ence -anea to outline the attitude
they believe the Irish of the United
States should assume toward Great
Britain. "
The organization will be governed
by a
nacionai commnee of sixtv
s with ., J """!. OI .',
memher.s with an executive committee
of twelve. National conventions will I
be held twice a year or oftener It,
was announced.
Any person of Irish
extraction who "sympathize with the
country in her aspirations for inde
pendenee' is eligible to membership.
The objects of the organization
announced by Captain John T. Ry
an, chairman of the committee which
worked out the details, will be "to
encourage and assist any movement
for the national freedom of Ireland
and to aid in the industrial improve
ment of the country as well as in the
revival of the language, literature;
music and customs of the Gaels."
IRISH FREEDOM
EL TIH IS
MENACED Bt
VILLA TROOPS
Report Says- Two Hundred
Are Marching on Mining
Camp After Having Loot
ed Stores in San Pedro,
Chihuahua
TOWNSPEOPLE
CARRIED AWAY
Government Troops Are Be
ing Dispatched to Rein
force El Tigre Garrison,
But May Not Arrive There
in Time
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, March 4. Two hundred
Villa troops are advancing toward El
Tigre, Sonora, from San Pedro, Chi
huahua, where they looted stores and
carried away a numler of townspeople
as prisoners last night, according to an
official report received here today by
Ives Lelevier, consul for the de facto
Mexican government. Government
troops are being sent to El Tigre to
reinforce the garrison.
The Villa troops were supposed to be
passing through Ojitas Pass, near the
Chihuahua-Sonora state line. By forced
marches it was pointed out they could
occupy El Tigre before sufficient re
inforcements could arrive to block
their way.
Approximately twenty Americans are
at El Tigre and are employed in the
mines there.
Advices from El Tigre tonight re
ported that the Villa forces, said to bo
advancing on that town numbered but
70 men and officers. Carranza offi
cials at Agua Prieta said a special
train with 1,100 soldiers of the de facto
government would leave Hermosillo to
night for El Tigre by way of Naco and
Agua Prieta. 1'nited States officials
they said, probably would be asked
for permission for the special to cross
Arizona.
Fighting While Asking Peace
EL PASO, Tex., March 4. Canuto
Reyes and Calixto Contreras, insurgent
leaders south of Torreon, have been
carrying on active operations while
suing for peace terms with the Carran
I za government, according to informa
I tion received here tonight. Reyes, just
I before attacking Picardias sometime
j ago, entered Villesca and took as pris
j oners foreigners named Sturgean and
I Roq.uet. He threatened to execute both
I of them as "gringoes" or Amei icans,
j but they were saved w hen Germans
j claimed them as fellow countrymen and
j paid a ransom of $r00.
I This exploit was carried out while a
j messenger from Reyes was on his way
to Juarez to procure amnesty for the
j insurgent chief. This promise of am
1 nesty was given yesterday.
! Contrefas, who also has been seek-
ing amnesty, is said to have proposed
I to Carranza officials counter terms of
peace. He will lay down his arms, ac
cording to the information brought
here, only on condition that Carranza
names him as governor of the state of.
Durango, and gives him the million
acre ranch Santa Catalina. He also
stipulated that the villages of his Cuen
came Indian followers be restored, and
that the immense Negrete ranch be
turned over to them.
Carranza currency was offered here
today at 2 3-4 cents on the dollar, the
lowest quotation so far.
Mexican and American health offi
cials conferred here today with refer
ence to plans for preventing the spread
, of diseases of Mexico
Carranza rep-
SIX SEAMEN ARE
Explosion of Gasoline on
Torpedo Boat Dostrovtn-
May Result Fataliv
Republican A.
SAN DIEGO,
men working it
P. Leased Wire
March 4. Six sea
i the hold of the
I'nited States torpedo boat destroyer
Preble were badly burned today
through
the explosion of a can of
ga.ioline. One of the men was said
. ln a sl,nous condition. At tho
I time of the acci lent the Preble was
, tied up at the municipal wharf un-
i .
I ''''""going repairs. The explosion is
to have been caused he- m
leak
n a gasoline torch. Arthur A.
Gossert.
coxswain, is the most neri-
ousK- hurt.
- ! Two of the victim ,m i.
the explosion was due to ignition of
fumes from a pail of gasoline. John
son, the boatswain's mate, it was
said, lighted a cigarette, causing
combustion of the fumes which filled
the compartment in which the men
were working.
Lieutenant Commander p. N. Free
man, commanding the torpedo boat
destroyer flotilla here, has ordered an
investigation.
BURNED ON PREBLE
