AjLBB QUEKQUE MORNING J OURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
TIHKTV-SKVKNTH VKAIt.
VOL. t XI I-X. "
TWENTY-SIX PAGES-FOUR SECTIONS ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO, SUNDAY, MARCH 5, 1916, TWENTY-SIX PAGES-FOUR SECTIONS."
HTEllSE
MEASURE MUCH
STRONGER THAN
FIRST PROPOSED
THE WEATHER
Regular Army to Be More
Than Doubled and National
Guard to Be Federalized
Thoroughly by New Act,
WEATIIT.lt FOUEC'AST.
Denver, March 4. New Mexico:
Sunday and Monthly partly cloudy; not
much change In temperature.
LOCAL WKATlir.It ItEl'OItr.
Fur twonty-foup .hours, ending
0 . ni. yesterday.
Maximum temperature, 73 degrees;
inlniimiiii, 24 degrees; range, 4 9 de.
grcos; temperature at 6 p. in., til)
green, southwest wind; clear.
(tt
do.
ROUSE SIDESTEPS
VOTE URGED Bf
ADM I ST IT 01
C1TV
1JAXK tT.KAUIXGS.
YchI crdav
$55, 971.4 I.
CIoiiHiius for the Week
$360,606.0.
GARRISON CONTINENTAL
Special Inducements Are Made
to Secure Enlistment; Pay
of Soldiers and Officers
Provided For,
made provisional fur two years before
it eommist'lon Is Issued.
Fnlistment is fixed ut seven years,
four with the colors and three in re
serve. At the end of one year of ser
vice efficient men may tie discharged
Into the reserve on recommendation
PLAN INCORPORATED of two years at their own request, if
j ..veil. Keservists would receive
a year and the president would
have authority to mobilize the reservo
in time of actual or threatened hos
tilities. Inducement for Itccruilv
As an additional inducement for re
cruits, provision is made that men
who have completed six years' service
in the army may be examined by n
board of officers to determine the
civil occupations for which they are
of warning tcMdutioiiN i;eu -rally, Is
thai its preamble Is oiirdoiicil with le
tiie.sts for papers that do niil t xisl or
cannot lie product il. This is not
denied l lio-nibi is Irving to obtain a
vole upon it, Hint they even believe
that very fact will gain their cause
many votes.
Senate (alms Down.
So far at the senate was concerned,
agitation over the Issue calmed down
almosl completely tonight and the
genera) opinion on yo.Uciday's vole
tabling all icsululions relating lo the
subject was that the senate had shown
that Its attitude w,i.s .strongly against
any interference with the president in
diplomatic negotiations on the .-uhmu-i
Ine controversy.
Former Soercbiry lhjnn, as soon as
ho arrlvi-d In Washington, cotifci rod
with his closest friend in eonuress,
ii,i...u.vt,i . t it-A 1 in 1 ..r i. ........ i.. ., ..i..
ing to President's Interests who has been In constant communica
tion with him over the armed ship
controversy. Mr. Mailt y gave him a
full report on the latest developments
in the sltuo'ion.
PET1ITE CASE
TO BE TAKEN UP
I'lHIy by Carrier or Mall. BOO
i Month. KinRlo Copies, Ao
RESOLUTION
Bryan's Presence in Wash
ington Believed Embarrass
in Congress
GERMAN SUBMARINE
PROBLEM NOT SETTLED
Friends Hope That Chief Ex-
LOUISVILLF. TO ENFORCE
DRY SUNDAY ORDINANCE
to Resume Diplomatic Negotiations,
(V MORNlN JOURNAL tPRClAL liario wiRtl
AVashingtoii, March I. The house
(BIT UORNIN4 JOURNAL RRICIA'.. LRAMO WIN
Washington. March 4. The first of
the national preparedness measures to ,iutilifled and they would be eligible "Kain today postponed action on pro.
reach either house of congress for con- j'" appointment to civil service posi- posnls to warn American citizens not
federation was introduced in the senate ti'ms of that nature without u civil to travel on armed merchant ships,
today by Senator Chamberlain, chair- service examination. The president defeat of which has been requested by
man of the military committee which "'so would have power to appoint ono President Wilson to strengthen his
nerfected it after weeks of hearings 1"Hn from each regiment to the ndli- hands in the negotiations with Gcr-
and conferences. It proposes an even tary academy.
more sweeping change in military pol-j The reserve officers'
icy than that outlined by President would have senior and junior grades
Wilson in his annual message, and was established at civil educational insti
deseribed by Mr. Chamberlain as tho tutions where military courses fire
most comprehensive piece of military provided with all army officer itetnll"d
legislation ever offered to congress. as instructor. The senior grade units t'?.
All of the elementary administration would be placed at colleges and i'lii-j Supporters of the president in
i...... i... ... ....... '...,..!:.... .1,.. !..:.... ...... .....- ... 1.1..,. ,.-l!,ii.l f... il... .;..,.
m ot ,iitiun iHnu luiinci nil n-ieiniu'n t"liu on- juini'i Kinurs m mip.ii ......... mi m.; iioi 111 j 11 let u ,1 11.1 u, 1 . p. f 1 r A A (- t OTnilf"
tary Garrison are retained, although in schools. Five hours a week would be safely aboard merchantmen bearing j O I Rtt I CAR MLN olnlKt
altered iorni anu, wun aainuonui pro- required in uie senior grade ami inree .u ins icucruicu lonigni inai mere
posala for organization of industrial re- in the. junior, devoted to military was no uncertainty that the house
server In peace times, It goes even fur- training. Summer camps for field sooner or later would follow the lead j
tlier'.inn the administration had suit- traininir of the cadets would be oro-lof the senate in killing the warniiiL. i ir mornin journal rpioal hamr wir.i
, s - 1 ..." . - - 1
gesi i .vuieu oy me governmeni.
tl'l.t. ....... Tl... 1 S,
A irinni 11 1111 .urunuil, I III- IH-ai I Hi III I i,mii i.i i iiti 11 IIKttill. 1 th . II. I'
1Y MOIIMIN JOURNAL RPICiAL LIAtfO WIRI
1 ....I. ...111.. 1.-.. If .....1. . .....I
,1 p, lAf'll n All1 .t.ni. lie , i-v., ..1. Hill 1, I'lUfir
eCLItlVe OOOll Will DC Able looking to the complete suppression of
Sunday liquor selling in Louisville to
day Were Klven to the juillee by Chair
man Kdwanl T. Tlerney of the board
of public safety. The licenses of all
proprietors caught doing business to
morrow will bo confiscated.
As a result of alleged tippling last
timidity nfter tile order had gone out
to keep the lid on, three licenses to
day were cancelled and the number of
saloons in Louisville was reduced to
65S, 11 new low 'mark.
A few years ago a city ordinance
placed the number of saloons to be
permitted at 50n. At that time 1.H0O
were In existence and while none was
forced out of business, no new licenses
have been issued. It Is claimed that
at the present late of decrease the
number permitted by law will In
reached In four ye.Ms.
IMMEDIATELY
UNITED STATES
Formal Demands Will Be
Made on Austria-Hungary by, s""""' laU-
. el llors of fi
btatc Department browing
Out of Attack on Steamer.
MUST APOLOGIZE AND
INDEMNIFY SUFFERERS
Captain of American Vessel
Makes Affidavit Flatly Con
tradicting Version Given by
Submarine Officers,
j WORK OF DIAZ JUNTA
16 CUMING 10 LIGHT
V MORMINC JOURNAL RRAClAL LIARRO WIRI,
Santa Antonio, Tex., March i.
ActUnicn of the Felix lia:'. Junta here
huve been disclosed by Fnited Slates
officers who since the Junta was
formed last December have been
seeUIng lo forest. ill th,. latlnchhitr of
a new revolution against Mexico from
Fnited Slates territory.
Several plans were considered by
the Junta, it Is said. In .nldllion to the
one which has been carried out and
by which Felix Diaz in Vera Fruit toj
recruit an army in southern Mexico
for the uprising against t'.irratr.a. II
as planned to initiate exp.-dit ions in
the lower Klo tiraiide vallev and in
In the Milliliter. The gov -
itir stales, believed to have
been Lower California, Uoaaca, Ta
basco anil Yucatan, arc yaltl to have
agreed tentatively lo Join the move
ment, overtures to certain Villa gen
erals, notably Felipe Angeles, so fa'
as known, were without results.
Federal officers have obtained the
names of a score or nioiv .Mexicans
who attended the meetings of the
Junta. What use will be made of the
Information has not been made
known.
VERDUN BATTLE
BLOODIEST YET
IT
IN 1ST
FOR PARIS
French Claim to Have Checked
German Infantry Assaults;
Artillery Fire Continuous
and Heavy.
GRAND DUKE SPLITS
ARMIES OF TURKEY
OltFI
:t.ON I Al t. lis
TALK OF lilAOU TlOV
jmaiiy. It was decided that not before
training corps Tuesday would ti vote be taken and a
weuring day or conferences and ma
neuvering lelt more doubt than ever
as to just what form the house action,
when the time finally came, would
his i
toi ,
(RV MOAN! N A JOURNAL R'tCIAL IIACIO AMRI!
Washington. March 4.--The Fnited!
Stat "s is preparing to make formal
demands upon Austria-Hungary as a
result of the attack by an Austrian
submarine upon the American tank!
steamer l'elrolile. A note on the silli-j
Ject will be dispatched within tin' I
next few days. I
It was authoritatively stated tonight'
the Fulled Slates would stand by Its
original' contentions and ask for tin
apology fur the attack, punishment '
of the submarine commanders, itml ;
(reparation tor the damage done toj
;lhe vessel and injuries Inflicted on a
who was hit by i
l.'l I'aso, Tex., March 4. lion. Al
varo obrt gon arrived here toiilghl
from Douglas, Ariz., and laughed at
reports of the alleged new revolution,
lie saltl thai If (ieiieral DluB really
had entered the republic to begin a
revolt his end would collie soon, tien
ral obrcgon was accompanied by
several . staff officers, but IiIm . bride
of u few days was not with him. She
remained with frlendx at Nogales,
Aria., It is leported, antl will Join her
husband In a few days at Kaglo I'ass,
Tex. The Farranza general Is expect
ed to leave here tomorrow night for
Fasle i'ass for n conference with
tlcncial Jacinto Trevino.
Advance Upon Bagdad Has
Commenced and Russians
Are Expected to Rescue
British at Kut-el-Amara,
IN WASHINGTON CITY
' nronou.'i Iw
I Dr.ian in Washington.
Washington, Mart 1 1
hundred motoi'iiicn ami
bouse committee's bill will be j The regulations under which graiiu-.
ted Al outlay. There is no vital ates would be appointed to the reserve
le between the two measures. corps are left to the president. Such Ham Jennings F.ryan, who filled
ubers of both committees be- lapiudntees must lie at least "1 years speaking engagement, here tonight, a
It when the final bill which old and must obligate themselves to, development which might further
Some representative profess lo sec
in the arrival at the capital of Wlt-
i
complex the situation confronting the
president's supporters in the house.
Mr. Fryan conferred during the after-
greed upon in Joint confer--serve for ten years.
nmlttec bus passed both! Their maximum is fixed at "iti'iou.
ie president will be able to' The federal volunteer force is pro
JgnaUire to a measure, that vlded for hi general language, leaving noon with many of his friends, in
do Vjfo than he has asked to-!the whole question of enlistment. 'eluding nome members of congress.
ward builJljng up an adequate natloimljtrainiiig, reserve and the like to the'and discussed the movement for a
'i.- Fifteen
conductors
two street
, railway lines voted to strike tal ly to-
tlav for higher wages and shorter
j hours.
I The strike was th t lured officially
j begun at 2: II 0 a. m.
defense. .(
discretion of .the president. The only congressional vurning, w hich ho is
sitle from 'its plan virtually lo dou- restriction In numbers 1m that the force known to favor. Jle denied, however,
ble the regular army and national shall not exceed an average of 600 for as did those with whom he talked, that
guard, the senate bill has four strik'-eaeh congressional district, a pproxi-; lie was on the ground to help organ,
ing features. They fire: mutely 250, noo men in all. Regular ie opposition to the president's tit-
Authorization of a purelv federal army pay would be provided for both sires
volunteer force in peace times, the ob- j officers and men during the period of
Ject sought by Secretary Garrison
urging the continental army plan.
Authorization for a definitely en
BABY WEEK IS
SI
OENb OBSERVED
in .training.
i
listed reserve in peace times
int-ii of every profession or
whose training fits them
duly either with troops
communication or supply
chine shops and munition
National Guard Feature.
Federalization of the national guard
For
Lobby's' I'lan Modified.
federalization of the national
among Kuard, the bill adopts with numerous
calling modifications, tho plan proposed by
for special u,e atjonaI (iuard association.
on lines of rat(, 0f ,,.,y for officers, however, was
or in ma- ,,t !lt jr.ao a yclir f,,r all of the rank
plants. L,r Cuptain or above, $300 for first lieu
tenants and certain specified staff of
ficers and $1150 for .second lieutenants.
higher
House leaders advanced many rens-J
oils In support of their decision against i
a vole today or Monday on the recom
mendation of the foreign affairs com
mittee that the McLemore warning
resolution bo tabled. Prominent
The uni""ff them was the failure of mi
mics committee to agree, after a long;
session, on what sort of rule should i
be brought in to govern debate. Aet-j
ing Chairman Pou and Kcpicsentatlvei
IN MANY STATES
member of the crew
a piece of shell. '
Austrian Version.
Ill reply to the first American com-!
municntion on the subject, Austria j
Informed the state department that its I
version of the affair was. thai Ihej
submarine commander thought the i
l'elrolile an enemy ship disguised i
With the American flag; that be fired ,
on the vessel because lie believed It j
was n I unit to run his ship, ami Dial'
the commander of the l'elrollte vol-1
unlarily furnished provisions when,
usk (I to tlo so. j
The stale department since has se-j
cured Infornialiou from the captain
anil crew of the I'etrolile directly
contradictory to the Austrian version.
Tliec i,,iv declared In affidavits tluil I
llm l'elrolile was slopped In the MetNi
ilerranean by' an Austrian submarine j
j w hich fired a number of shells at her; j
that the submarine commander asked!
I for food, which the commander of'
IR. MORNIN JOURNAL (RICIAL LIAMP WlRI
Tin. tiettuan armies ut the gates of
Verdun are hammering them hard
wllh heavy artillery but at latest ac
counts had suspended Infantry at
tacks. In the last flghtimr reported,
the Initiative was. on the ship of tat
French, who desperately drove baclt
the (iermans in a counter-attack;
which gained them ground.
Tht, Merman thrusts in the nevr
phas,. of the titanic struggle ure be
ing delivered with heaviest force ut
present on the salient to tho north
east of the fortress in which Uom tho
Douaumont Plain,. Horn tho French
PENALTY FOR CRIME rr .,,rlwn "V of,Kort
, Douaumont nnd JilM now from Don.
jaiimont village, to tho went.
I MCRNINS JOU'OAL Rl-fCIAL LtARID WIRII ., ... , . , , ... .
I'.iHhart's. ,vla U.-rhn. March 3. toi 7'?,l,,nH i ""5,,, ,
London. March 4. p. m )-''tV,-1 ' ' " I
,,,i,. . -..i.i i i "o !'" been rnglntr with vloleneo and
would fight 'termaiiy will, regret ; h(lftvy n lJn.
Austria and Indifference ami Hi'"-1 .iffhlHl accounts assert tlmt there ha.-
gary with the keeii'-st satisfaction, ' ,.,, n,lln)? ,ho w,fstl,rn Iront to
suitl M. Flllpesco. leader of the It il- I ,,.,, ymrtv of , ..Mnekw ,le.
BANDITS MUST PAY
Child Welfare Exhibits and
Systematic Distribution of
Garrett, of the committee, went to the
Information
Campaign,
Features of
under a pay provision designed to rnc association plan proposed
bring this force immediately into such pUy for K,-neral officers.
nations with the federal government! 'Knlslvi . wollld ri.,.t.lvf
mat us, training, equipment and per
sonnel will be under supervision of
I he war denartment. i
Authorization for an officers' re
serve and a reserve officers' training
pay on
and organ I-
army is pro
made also for
examination of
authorities and for tho inclu-
,of the war department.
FREEDOM FOR
corps which would take in graduates
,to, iniiiiury scuoois ana coueges mtion of ,he ,,.gUur
iid provide for their further devel- (l.p)b(ld Provision is
opment to command.
For the regular army, the bill pro
vides a peace strength within five
yeais of 178,000 men of all arms, or
approximately 105,000 fighting troops.
The percentage of men in each com
pany, battery or troop at peace
strength, would be increase, in the
Interests of efficiency and the full war
strength would' be 225,000.
Kegular Army I'nitu.
The army would consist of:
sixty-five infantry, twenty-five cavul.
ry and twenty-one field artillery regi-j
nieiiis in addition to the staff and oth-
t special corps and tho coast artil-j
Ifiy. The mobile army in continen
tal Fnited States would consist of
four infantry divisions and two divi
sions of cavalry. Corresponding in-'
creases in tho number of general of-j
fleers would be made and the rank!
and pay of lieutenant general would
be given" to the chief of staff. j
The bill provides for complete re-!
organization of the army, legalizing the;
organization now under force in depart j
mental regiiiaiion. The appointment j
of Ri-cond lieutenants other than grad-;
nates of the military academy art-
White iltousc tonight to discuss
feature with President Wilson.
Kcumoiim for Delay.
Olli.-I i-,.!i4,,nu .,,., el Iml l.r
I I.. . r ...... .... ...I. ..r .u.. 1..-.1 ... mfc
nit, uamn tn uiit-iui i n m no- ohumi delay included"
army paj, anu wuum coutiait on en
listment, to serve the United States in
time of war.
fixed at six years, three with the col-
that
the
(V HORNtNV JOURNAL RPCCAL LfiACVD WIRI)
New York, March 1. Haby week in
the Fnited Stabs began today under
the auspices of public health, civics
and home economics committee of t lie
General Federation of Women's clubs.
The purpose of the campaign Is two-
f,,l,l f.lc. I,. ....... I. i
affairs committee's recommendation to ,,,.lrn ,,ww to (,,ro f(jr ',,,,, children
the F' trollte refused o give him, and
that ;ln- commander of the submarine
then held one of the members of the !
tanker's crew as n hostage while hist
men went aboard the ship und took i
such s'.orcs tin they desired.
iiiiinlan c nservalives and fonut
minister of war, to the correspondent
of The Associated I'icss today.
lie exnressed the opinion that I her,,
is no ill leellni; against Germany, and
that Austria is disliked rolely because
it Is linked with the Hungarians, who
are hated on account, of the allegej
Ill-treatment of the Uuinanlftiis living
Ui Transylvania and .l'.aliul..
According to the Itumunlan pres.
here arc several I'acois which make
for he continued ii'iitrlity of the
country. These are, first, I hat the
Teutonic sympathizers are belter or-
Insistence of some democrats, In-
ebidint. T"em,ier(, t i. f.nr.ilr.-- It'll. .1.1-.
The enlistment period Is fhflt inHt(iad of vo w
.. ... ...l,-,o,. -so-. propcrly, and lo bring home lo every
lutlon, there be rcpor od a substHute nc , eilt. ,,ninunit.v facts relating
fill II f t i inr n wtriiifTlil .1 u'v,-;n,, "
ill officers appointed rt.goutl(7n " i ,0 tno lj"bles and the need of perma-
by state authorities and for tho itidu- ,,,,, . ,,. ,,,.,,.,; , I"1'"1 tenure.
slon of officers of tho national guard ' frwm Wllfihil 'ion on iweek.rnrt .. . .'""fch"1 ,hf.V"n.,ry ". '
in the personnel of the militia division ,,,, i"o t mm welfare cxnnnis ana llie sys-
IRELAND AIM OE
ORGANIZATION
hers from Washington on
' .. , ., , , , jtemutic distribution of information
Lnwilhngness by Speaker Carl. Ulnbolt thu ,nW(.rllw f ,,. dwUh
enlerta n a tabling motion on Monday, jani0,w (.hilll,.n ,lb(,ut .
........ . .... ,.u tw.-,, .n methods of feeding infants.
i teas ui jiitiian.'i tiemocrais inat no
vote be taken before the Indiana pri
maries are held next Tuesday.
The desire of many members for the
In New
Vork a one-day convention next
Thursday w III he held by the city
(federation of women's cluls, at which
! eh 1 1,1 n-oiriii-.. will I... A iu, ,,..., I
longest possible delay in the hope that ' '
have to go on rvdird ! I. OC. t, ( ill i: ills; ti
OUM KVIO '11AIIV SI NDAV
temper of icpubli-j
i Following In the line of the national
! iihuftrtrr. nn ,,' "l!Kt- t,...l. l...
. ... ... .uv- ,. . .1. in,, i ie
RUMANIA GLAD TO
FIGHT HUNGARIANS
IRV WORNINa JOURNAL RRICIAL LRARBO WIRII
Chicago, March 4. The four ban
dits charged with robbing the Wash
ington Park National bank of $15,000
recently, were found guilty tonight.
Deliberations of the jury were brief.
Conviction carries with It sentence
under thu intedlermlnalo law of from
one year to life Imprisonment.
The convicted men are Charles
Kramer, Marry Kramer, Harry Fein
ami Alex Itrodle.
Ftldie Mack, the fifth bandit, turn
slate's evidence ami was not prose-eutcd.
Ilveit-d by tho Germans, while tho
French infantry Is declared to bit
disputing every Inch of ground and
in their latest effort to hnvo forced
tbe Germans to rest on the laureln
so far won and leave Hit, continuation
of the battle to their artillery.
Paris advices show that no doubt
remains in the minds of the French
lliut tUct'u is tio.thlnir Jn the ntur
of u feint in tilt? German effort, thu
belief existing that tho crown priiiiirt
hits determined to capture Vcrduu.
and, if possible, break through ; tho
French line nnd open up the way to
Paris.
Fronrli Attacks Kcpulscd.
Theru hus been some flghtiiq; fur
ther south on the line in the west, tho
Germaiis reporting the repulse of a
j French attack in Ixrritlne, In which
.the French had some initial success,
j hut were forced to relinquish tho
i ground taken, Flsewhere there has
j been comparative quiet, while from
, none of tho other European war
i
! ganlzed tlin.il the followers of the
entente ami, secondly, the long dura
tion of the war has created public
iipnthy. Another deterrent factor has
been Hie expense of mi hilizallon and
the later tlcmoblllzat ion of nearly the
entire army. The cost of loving also
lias iticreased, some articles havlm:
risen In price more than they have in
the central power countries.
froiitK a ro evenl.4 of mini, nut renm-li-il.
J Folleeninii Killed by I Wpud. . Tl, iu,snIii occupation of BltliH. In
j Oakland. Calif., Man h I.-- While j Turkish Armenia, Is regarded In Pet .
.walking along a crowded street under rilenid as a development of first Mt
arrest here tonight, an unidentified j importance, opening further the way
man, believed lo bo a fool pail, surrcp-j t0 n,-1;dad for the KuaHian armies,
titioiisly drew a revolver from hlsijlmt goal is a lonu distance away yot
lilp pot ket ami reaching around be-j from the niisslans headed south wart!
Iilnd him, shot In Hit- back and fatal-: toward Mesopotamia, hut the military
ly wounded his captor, Hubert F. I observers already have mapped out
Gushe, a patrolman. The dying offl-jthe probable routes for Grand Duke;
cer exchanged several shots with his! Nicholas' armies over thi 400-mllu
fleeing ussall.'.nt, but the latter appar- stretch to a Junction with the BrltliiH
ntly unhlt. escaped.
TWO FRENCH CRUISERS
SUNK BY GERMANS
POPE BENEDICT
Irish-Americans Launch So
ciety to Help Regain Politi
cal and Industrial Independ
ence for Land of Birth,
The Day in Congress
Th-andcis
Kcsumed
"cr bill.
' ttosscd
' ' lay.
hKN.VTK.
hearing continued,
debate on Shields
at 5:43 p. m. to
water
bi
ll ii
iioisi:.
'csiilered war claim bills and It -'
; appropriation bill.
- 'e leaders and rules committee
" rs conferred over plans to ta-itraetion
' dutions lo warn Americans offn ountry
'hios
- iltural appropriation bill tar
'V? approximately JL'4.500.000 favor
lr MDRIIINJ JOURNAL RMCPAL LtASlO WIR)
j New Vork, March 4. A new nation
al organization to be known as "The
Friends of Irish Freedom," was
formed here tonight by prominent
Irishmen from all parts of the eouu
'try in attendance at a conference
:talled to outline the atitude they be
jlleve the Irish of the Fnited States
Should assume toward Great Hritaln.
I The organization will he governed
jby a national committee of sixty mem
bers with an executive committee ofj
'twelve. National conventions will lie
iheld twice a year or oftener, it was
'announced. Any person of Irish ex-
who 'sympathizes with me
in her aspirations for inde-
nendence" is eligible to membership.
! The objects of the organization as
'announced by Capl. John T. Iiyun.
they never will
on the proposition.
Doubt as to the
can members.
.oakcr intervene. observance of "Muby Week,
soon arter the hnu.se convened to- rious women's organizations of Albu
day. Acting Chairman Pou announced 'querquc have laid out an elaborHle
that his committee had decided there program of erenioiiics w'itb a view to
soooiu oe no voie umii .tionauy. f lien educating the people on the necessity
speaker ' lark added to the perplexi- of the more scientific rearing of child
ties of those in charge of the presl- ren.
dents fight by announcing he would Todav
is
the
was .
not recognize it moiion to bring
proposal up Monday because it
unanimous consent day.
An informal meeting of democratic
members of the rules committee, Ma
jority Ix-ader Kitehln, Cnalnnun
Flood, of the foreign affairs commit
tee, and the speaker followed.
course of it lively two hours'
'Piitby Sunday," and from
every pulpit in the city sermons will
be preached emphasizing the ohiects
for which "Hnby week" was set a ;lde.
"First the blade then the eur. ami
after that the full corn in the ear," is
the motto that Hie workers for ibis
enterprise have adopted, liegin Willi
In tho the baby. Follow his growth through
session youth and then realize the full irui-
i
IRV MURNINR JOURNAL RRCClAL I RARCO WIRIJ
Merlin. March 4 thy Wireless to
Tuckerlon, N. J.) The German nd-i
mlralty reports that, on .March 1 Ger-
man submarine sank off Havre twni
French auxiliary cruisers, each armed I
wllh four cannon, and one I'.lltish pu-j
tro boat al the mouth of the Thames, i
The French man-of-war sunk on J
February X off the Syrian coast was1
not the Suffrell, the statement eon-1
llnues, but the armed cruiser
Charm r, as reported by the
submarine.
URGES PRAYERS
FOR WORLD PEACE
IRV MORNiNt, JOl.trtAL I-ICIAL LtASLP Willi;
Koine M irth I (Ma Paris, 7:40 p
Admiral m.) I'ope lleiictlict has addressed a
returned I pastoral letter to Cardinal I'.asillo
! Poiiiiill.i. t il i I vicar
. ! dealing Willi the lcnlell
The loss of Hie Admiral Charner j this letter the pope refers to the try
was confirmed on February I t by in- j tiiLf period through which the world Is
formation received by the French niln-! passing, the desirability of peace and
it-try of marine. A sailor picked up'lhe nee-ssiiy of imploring it from on
off the coast of Syria reported thai High with players, penance and good
the warship bad been torpedoed. I works, lie asks the cardinal lo urge
I .ator il was announced from Merlin ! the faithful ol the church t
thai llie report of the comander of: bis bcle-l.
the submarine would be n waited In-!
,'.. ,i, fi,,ii., vim ..I ..I-.. I.. ..; Itl'MOTiON OF ItliINT
ton Hit, Tigris.
I Turk Force Split Ojwn.
in addition and of more 1 ill media to
(Interest. Is the bringing out of the
'point that tho Turks now will bt
gnally hampered in bringing up re
, liiforce meiitn for their army that met.
defeat at Krzerum, and is retreating
1 westward, while the southward thrust
I by the Russians has driven a wedgo
between the Turkish forces west of
I.jik,. Van in Armenia nnd thost op
erating to the east In Persia.
On the naval side of the conflict
the German admiralty has reported
the sinking of two French auxiliary
cruisers una a Mrilish patrol boat,
while from the Mediterranean ccniei
the report of the sinking of the Ital
ian steamer Giava, a 2,(i00-ton bout,
by an Austrian submarine. I'nofflc-
of Homo. () ,,, ( h,, German claim to tlta
pcitson. In ! f nit 1 nt: of two French warhhins i.i
I made in Pai ls.
,i:il.MA ATI ( KK
KFI'l I.SKD IX IliAXDKIJH
ported.
committee discussed
i 'tdni rtuiericans oji
U tl
, i: ,!.
tie, ,
but adjourned
VurriHU at 4:45
' " ,y. when a nit
,l Hfltrefcentative
chuirtnan' of the
ri-solu-armed
without acting.
p, m. to noon.
ommlttee whlih
will be "to t-n-
on llie question or training a rule, Mr. Hon of splendid manhood or wnmnn
Kitchiu brought forth his proposal for hood.
a straight warning resolution. The! Kvery .la this week there will be
prt sident's backers refused to enter-special programs in line with the gen
tain the suggestion. The attitude of era I Idea of baby week, different ur
ine administration was plainly, they anizations having charge ofr the cer
saiti, for killing the M I.emore resolu- cmonles on different days. On Fri
tion on the floor and making an end 'day evening at the audito riiiin ihere
of the whole matter. 'him i. h ,,.iv sivi-n l,v ebil.b-en lo,-
Kepubli,7in Attitude. 'tin- benefit of the child welfare de-
lu uiliUtion to fearing the result of u pari ment of th- WomanV club. "The
demoerath: vole on a straight warning The ft of Thistledown," a children'
lesolution, administrutlon leaders drama especially prepared by Hie l.a
l'rankly admitted today they are un-Idles" Home Journal for use at Ibis
willing to take chances on what theitlme. and "The Fairy Picture Hook."
republicans would do with such aju playlet written by un Albuquerque
proposal. Republican leaders ure said .woman, will he Hindered by the best
to be willing to aid in tabling the Me-! Juvenile talent In the citv. Sin h wt II-
to w In
or the
I her the vessel Was the Sufl'n
Admiral Charner.
n
i
Ml
astppl will be held.
worked out the details, will be to en- wraorp resolution because they regard . known child actors its Virginia Let
t-oarage und assist any movement forjthut us more or I-ns of a. negative uc-,,VVilliamsoii, Kdwarrt I.udes, Olive Har
the national freedom of Ireland nnd.tioii. but their attitude on a cloarjden and William Krj-son will have
to aid in the industrial Improvement of warning proposition would be quite leading roles, and the success of the
t nterta lament from both an artistic
ieetion to the MoT m. n.f Tl
customs o( the Gaels. nnoro r'jiuiuuou, as tounueu oy iriencWoutj conclu'tion.
Wcck-eiitl I Set for Pifsltleiit,
Washington, .Ia'eh 1. Pres'tb-iii
ami Mrs. Wilson left tonight on lio j
Mat flower fi r a week end trip do" i I
the Potomac river and Chi aprnli -
bay. They planned to return toj
Washington Monday morning. The I
president decided to lake the trip lo
calise of his desire for reset after
a busy week in conference Willi eon.
gresslomil leaders over llie agilatio'i
to pass resolutions warning Americans
London. March t 1 10:30 p. m.)
follow The official statement from llrilish
'headquarters issued tonight, reads:
"During last night and early thia
niornlnrr Ibeie was Nhitro ert.,u,dtt
CAI Si: OF Gi:i;. T " Alt (il.1(n(? ln . sonm minc craters neu,'
Vi-rniellfs. The enemy bombarded
tur trenches while trying the orators.
All the crenters remain In our hands.
"The Niluiiiion elsewhere is nor-
off armed ships.
I don. Manll 4 (!i::12 P. m 'l
('.irdliuil Fratn'is Mourne, an hblshop
of West minuter, in a letiten pi, si oral
lelt, r, declared'
"The worM-wide war is the out
come, not of II, e failure, but of 111-'
it j.' tioii of Christianity. I
Tll.-re is. he said, no nation guilt-.
, li ;-s in ibis respect. i
i "Knglaml, iniji . il," the -at diiinl !
staled, "will be preserved for such
I forget fulness of the teachings of!
I Chi 1st as to i'i'"t laim that moral evil!
lis noii-t xistenl where the interests or.
nuil.
I l!IM II
M'l't'llsMS
IlKPGltTF.U
1JV PAKIS
! the slat.
mor'ial 'session for'jtbe country as well as in the revival Mfercnt.
tiv-e Witherspoon the language, literature, music und The chief obj
Hotel Pla.a Again.
Fust Las Vegas, N. M., March 4.--Tlie
Hotel Itomalne has changed II-
nitme back to that of Hotel Plaza, a
title which it enjoyed for many years
prior to lis being leased to Koinaiiit
Fit Iding. The motion picture man
named the hostelry for himself. After
his departure the nume lost Its signif
icance, ,
are concerned and that all
j means, right or w rong, honorable oi
j disboiioiuMe, may be employed when
the needs ot the country demand
them. Mot Hli-clubd has had her part
and a great und Itudiug part, In the
revolt ugulnst the fundamental tenets
of Christianity in the sixteenth cen
tury and the subsequent logical ra
tionaliT.dtion of religion which In so
many nations hus destroyed Chris
liunity altogether,"
Pails, March 1 (I0;"0 p. m.) The
official communication issued by tho
war office tonight reads as follows:
"In Arlois an attack by the enemy,
with Hi- object of driving us from th
crater which we occupy near the road
from Neuvlllc lo Lu folic, was re
pulsed. "In th- Argoniie we cannonaded In
the region to the southeast of Vuu
quois the ficrmnii organizations and
demolished several shelters."
HUAVI
:n am toi n.(;i".
SHOWN UX BOTH SIDKS
Purls.
French
March i. A cuptuin of
ehxsicui's Ucsalbmjj a Gtr-
1 f"
I
