UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
fl
n
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, SUNDAY, MARCH 5, 1916
EIGHT PACES.
NUMBER 158
V
I
fr
;
h
TEACHERS SEE NEED
OFNEWCONSTITUT
Committee of State Organiza
tion Presents Seven Rea
sons for Change.
CO-OPKRATION ASKED
Unequal Tax System and Ed-
ucational Needs Among
Items Emphasized.
committee of five members of the
Missouri state Teachers' Association,
appointed for that purpose, has pre
pared a pamphlet setting forth seven
reasciiis why the teachers belice Mis
souri should have a new constitution.
The committee, acting for the asso
ciation, desires "to enlist the co-operative
efforts of other organized
bodies in the state and the people gen
erally. I" urging upon the next Gen
eral Assembly the necessity of sub -
mining a call for a constitutional con- , state's institutions can adopt and carry of Chicago.
vention and for the election of dele- out consistently a constructive policy! Tn-' following resignations were ac
hates to a constitutional convention." of development extending over a pe-jcepted:
The members of the committee are: riod of years because of lack of con- i 1). H. Doane. state leader of farm
Walter Williams, dean of the School tinulty and certainty in financial sup- advisers; c. A. I.eCIair, assistant pro
of Journalism, chairman; W. S. Dear- port. Much more economical admin-1 lessor In soils; It. F. Goisert. assistant
mont, president of the State Normal istrations of all the institutions could ' in the agricultural extension service;
School at Cape Oirardeau; W. H. ( be secured even without added reve- j F. II. Ilrodie. chief clerk in the office
Black, president of .Missouri Valley nue if it were possible to know what of the business manager; Mrs. H. S.
College at Marshall; S. E. Davis, a ' available resources would probably be Varner, order clerk In the same office;
professor in the Normal School at at the command of the institutions J. D. Fehsenfcld. student assistant in
Jlaryville. and William P. Evans, for- during a term of years. Under such soils; Miss Jessie II. Hill, stenog
mer state superintendent of public in-1 circumstances an institution could J raphcr in the department of entomol
struction and now principal of the plan its building operations intelli-logy; I. F. Gilmor, county agent of
Blow School of St. Louis.
Kiluralion Is Hampered.
The reasons set forth are as fol-
lows:
'. We have reached the limit of
progress in the doelopment of educa
tion in Missouri under the old con
stitution. All efforts at further prog
ress are futile on account of limita
tions imposed by the constitution. Im-
portant educational movements under mounced at the Alpha Phi banquet last
way in other states, including the pro- night at the Virginia Grill. After the
posed development of vocational edit-(toasts had been given, each guest re
cation with the assistance of the na-. ccived a red rose with a card bearing
tional government, are impossible in the word "Betrothed" and the names
.Missouri on account of the limitations ' of .Miss Carter and Mr. Daily,
of the old constitution. .Missouri must Miss Carter received a B. S. in Home
stand stationary, or perhaps retro- Economics in lfiU' and an A. B. in
grade in education, until a new consti- 1913. She was an instructor in eco
tution is adopted. nomics for two years. She is a mem-
"2. The people of .Missouri are liv- ber of the Alpha Phi sorority,
ing under a taxing system that im- Mr. Daily was graduated from the
poses unequal burdens upon the ari- School of Law in 1910. He is a mem
ous communities of the state and upon ber of the Acacia fraternity. He prac
individual citizens Certain forms of ticed law here until recently, when
property, such as real estate of all
kinds, and farm property in general,
are readilv listed bv the assessors.
while other forms of property are in.
many cases not reported for assess
ment at all. Citizens of Missouri are
tempted to withhold their property
from assessments, contrary to law and
good morals, because some forms of
property, if reported for assessment
at all. would under the system of tax -
ation Imposed bv the old constitution I LO"ese team in me college gymna
bear burdens of taxation so heavy as sium" At the erul the score s,ood -
to amount almost to confiscation of the to 1:l
Income on this property. The old' The Kame was eIose at a11 times
constitution imnoses this uniust svs- I Time was caIled often l0 Eive lhe girls
'- tern of taxation upon the people of
Mlssonri on.! t. m,.c h wno ..niiiiK as ieu by gins dressed in the
the people adopt a new- constitution. scho)I colors
Would Change Court Procedure. -Misses IJ,a Green an'1 Martha
"X Provisions in the old constitu-ShockIe-v s,arre1 for tl,e hPh bciiooi-
tlon nvnmi,, .h r.,ni.i ,,i J,ls!cs Sarah Morris and Frances St.
r" .-..-P, ...v. ... .uia.bum.i unit
procedure of the courts largely defeat
the ends of justice, and impose need
less burdens of expense in all litiga
tion. On account of limitations in the
old constitution the supreme court is
three years behind In its business.
Under such conditions poor men are
practically denied relief in our high
est court because the long delay nec
essary in deciding their cases often
means their ruin. Corporations and First of Religious lteek Addresses to
other wealthy litigants can force Re Chen at 7:30 p. m.
poorer litigants to accept their terms rr. Hugh Black, professor of prac
rather than endure the long delay nee- tical theology in the Union Theologi
ssary in deciding a case if an appeal Cal Seminary of New York City, will
to the supreme court is taken. The 'arrive here tomorrow and will de
people of Missouri must suffer under ' liver the first of his Religious Week
an unjust and vicious system until , addresses at 7:30 o'clock that night
there is a new constitution. in the University Auditorium.
"4 Under limitations imposed by; Doctor Black is well known in Co
the old constitution, cities and towns lumbla. Last year he made the Wash
anil other local communities are de-' ington's birthday address. He w'ill
nled the right of managing their own give five lectures during Ifeligious
local affairs. They are unable to make Week. The hours are: Monday,
"eeaed public improvements and to 7:30 p. m.; Tuesday, 11 a. m.: Wed- .
provide for their welfare tinder mod- nesday, 2 p. m.: Thursday. 3 p. m.; Bradford to Run for Sheriff.
n conditions of life. Many rural Friday. 10 a. m. All will be civen in J Frank C. Bradford announced yes
communities are prohibited by the old the University Auditorium and will be ' terday that he is a candidate for slier- 1
constitution from maintaining a good
school for more than a few months in
a year Most of the small cities and' Two Couples Licensed to Wed.
towns of the state are unable to sup- Marriage licenses were issued yes
Port a public library on account of terday to Elmer R. Craighead. Centra
limitations Imposed by the old con-1 Ha. 22. and Miss Bessie Jones. Cen
stltution. Further progress and devel- tralla, 22: and to Clark Sapp. Easley,
opnient In the small cities and towns j 22. and Miss Lorena Wren, IS, Ash
ci Missouri is made difficult, if not Hand.
well nigh impossible, by the limita
tions of the constitution.
Good Roads Veiled.
"5. The need of Rood roads is felt
throughout the state, but it is very
difficult under our constitution to es
tablish and maintain pood roads A
new constitution is needed to enable
the state to do its part in making and
maintaining good roads that are of'
such Wtal importance to the develop- ;n St.LoiIlS. Prince's Attack,
xnent of rural life and to the pros-' "
arTJZTJ..TOCHlCAGO'TKlJTOKS TAKE :0,U0O?
social life hae made imperative many
reforms i social and industrial reia -
tians, our old constitution was
trained mure than forty years ago. at,
a time when these changes were not !
anticipated. In nio.-t instances these
reforms are blocked by provisions :n I
the old constintution which are inter- I the ratifjiiig of new appointments oc-!
preted by the courts in the light oflcupied most of the time of the Hoard!
mediaeval rather than modern condi
tions. A new constitutitkit is needed
to make certain the power of the legis
lature to make these reforms possi
ble. Educational Itoeiiiie I'liccrtaili.
"7. All the state institutional activ
ities are made uncertain and are ham -
.pcred by the fact that none of the
gently and carry them out with care
and economy, which policy is at pres -
ent impossible.'
MJSS NELLE CARTER WILL WED
. Former 31. I. Instructor to He Bride
1 of Herley S. Dailj, M It. Mil.
1 The engagement of Miss Nelle Car
, ter, daughter of Mr. and .Mrs. J. W.
' Carter, and Herlev S. Dailv was an-
he went to St. Ijinis to takp :. nnsitinn
with the Massachusetts Mutual Life
Insurance Cnmranv
'
C. II. S. GIRLS WHIP
CHRISTIAN !
High School Basketball Season Closes I
With 24-19 Victory.
The Columbia High School girls i
wounu up tneir oasKetball schedule
Iast night b-v l,efeating the Christian
a chance to fix their hair. The cheer-
Clair, for the college.
The high school line-up was: rf,
Vandiver; If, Green; c. Shockley; c,
McDonald; Ig, Barkwell: rg, Gilbert.
The line-up for the college was; rf,
St. Clair; If, Morris; c. Murphy; c.
Hickman; lg, Moore; rg. Brown, Hill
and Hadady.
IHt. BLACK HERE TOMORROW
open to the public.
CURATORS KEPTBUSY
BY FACULTY CHANGES.
Appointments and Resigna
tions Occuov Time of Meet-
;l)r. H. A. Watson of Vale Is
Named to Succeed Prof.
V. V. Stewart.
The accepting of resignations and .
of Curators of the University at the i" ""-' '" "'"- as orougii. me
meeting in St. Louis Kri.lav. The re- Crown '"'s drive to almost a com
port of President A. Ross Hill on the ' I'Ie,t' I,al, according to Paris dis
dismissal of Walter C. Martin from the) Patches tonight. French air scouts re
Universitv was presented to the board. IK,rt ,,,:iv-v "ssinK of German troops
Dr. H. A Watson of Yale was named ,
assistant professor of economics to i
1 succeed I'rof. Walter Stewart, who has i
' accepted a position in the University
i Marion County; Glen II. Johnson and
! Luther E. Davis, student assistants in
zoology; J. W. Palmer, student helper
in chemistry; Carl W. Betz. reader in
mathematics; Miss Cora Schultze, stu
dent assistant in botany; II. L. Dahm.
assistant in chemistry.
The following appointments were
made:
Mrs. Anne Karstetter, stenographer
in the office of the business manager; I
Lewis R. Long, stenographer to Dean jj.jja
W. W. Charters; A. K. G winn. student ' "
assistant in soils; .Miss Ruth Gans. j n-T United Pre.
stenographer in the department of VIENNA, March -1. The Austrian
entomology; U C. Yeager, reader in war office rejiorts that repeated at
Greek; Roy Hastings and Miss Mary ' ten,l,,s of tl,e Russians to cross the
Guinn, student assistants in zoology; I Ikwar River near the Dubno fortress
Wayne R. Fuller, student helper in ' llav bep" repulsed.
chemistry; Guy McDanlel. student as-
sistant in botany; Homer T. Newlon, !
assistant in chemistry; Miss Marv Per -
cival. student assistant in WMlen.s
gymnasium work; Thomas Capp. as-
sistant baseball coach; Jacob Speel-
man. student assistant in nhvsical
"cation, to take the place of Wilbur
Hutscll.
c- I- Brewer, J. D. Eiliff and C. II.
Williams were appointed as a com- i
(mittee to arrange for High School I
P;iv
( POST-SEASON FOOTR 11 I
Presents of M. V. Conference Schools 'taking the examination "to see how
Vote Tlnun Pr, .. W!,... i much he doesn't know."
That postseason football games
have no place in the Missouri Valley
was decided at St. Louis Friday when
at the meeting of the presidents of
the schools in the Missouri Valley
.f ., ,
Conference a motion was passed that
,.-,. . ' , I
.... ..... ...... i ocuauii miuuiu enu on or
t,r T,, , . , -
before Thanksgiving Day. .
,, , ....
,, ...j , ' , , .'
...mi nmuc uy uie tacuiiy memners or ,. . . , . , , .. .
,,, nr . .. ' . when he is graduated from high
the Conference at their meet ng last ,,,.-;.. ..,
,w,,, . ., . , h , ' school, but intends to complete his
December rescinding the rule which . ,,
prohibited the playing of football'0 "Ca "'
games on Thanksgiving Day. While
j there was hardly any doubt that the
.Turkey Day games would be allowed.
the vote of the conference presidents """" "!" '"? ,. V ""
ui ......oc.,.-. ti,- .- . Three Candidates Here.
was necessary. Their ac'ion insures .. , ., , , ,.
tho ,.i.i .1, ,,. , ,. Nearly 100 persons attended the
tne plajing of the Missouri-Kansas', ,
1 game on Thanksgiving Day.
HOUSE LEADERS OPPOSE WILSON
Second "Sliow-Dowir on Ship Warn-
inir Plan May Come Tuesday.
P.y United Pre
WASHINGTON, .March 4. Clark.
Kitchin and many of the Democratic
leaders in the House of Representa
tives are in revolt over President Wil
son's ship warning jilan. Action on
f A sfslT Xn l.nn 1. . a . 1
.'""'" " "vea Postponed, it
win probably be taken to a vote on
Tuesday. A fight Is on over the form I
of th resolution to be voted on.
iff of Boone County. Mr. Bradford is
a former sheriff of the county. He
has also served as collector.
Ad Club to Meet Tomorrow.
The University Ad Club will hold an
important business meeting at the Y.
M. C. A. Building at 7:30 o'clock Mon
day night.
FRENCH CLAIM HALT
OP DRIVE ON VERDUN
- Terrific Artillery Fire Forces
' Cessation of the Crow n
Berlin Reports Capture, and
Allies Admit Loss of Dou
iitimont Village.
It.v United 1'ress
LONDON, .March 4 Territic artil
lery fire, sweeping the noithern ap-
east, or i-ori uetaux and around
Frenes.
Th
lighting around Douaumont is
believed to be preliminary to a hard
! smash by the Germans from the north
east and the east.
The Teutons have resumed long
range bombardment of Verdun itself,
Berlin dispatches say. Tonight it was
claimed that 20,0(10 unwounded French
prisoners have been taken since the
Verdun fighting began.
By United l'res.
LONDON. March ). Minor fishting
northwest of Vermelles was reported
tonight by General Haip. British commander-in-chief.
An official statement
tonight said the Germans had bom
barded the mine craters held by the
British, attacking them with hand
grenades. All the attacks were re-
' pulsed
Itr United 1'ren.
PARIS, March -I. German troops
entered the village of Douaumont this
morning after a violent struggle, the
war office admitted in an official
jftatement tonight. Desperate fighting
f-nnttnilprl tnrtn fnr nnci;tfin nf tho
AT I."., TAKES TEACHERS' EXAM
1 .
' "bert Rue AVanN to Find Out H.n,
3Iucl1 "'' nes" ' h"""-
. Jt was a wise philosopher who said,
ed-i"He who knows and knows he knows.
' knows li,tlp: mit !u "ho knows
not
and Knows ije
i and knows
knows not.
knows
( much."
Herbert Rice, the youngest person
who took the Boone County teachers'
examination which was held in the
Circuit Court room Friday and yester
day, told a reported yesterday that he
does not intend to be a teacher, but is
I Herbert, who is a bright-faced boy
of is. was graduated from he eighth
grade when he was 13 years old. and
is now a sophomore in the Ashland
High School. His home is at Ashland.
lien .ipftcu It lie ujiiifiii uic c.-
... , ., . , . ., .
amination was hard, he remarked that
u , .. .
he never saw an easv one. and that
.... , , . , '
"t could be easier.
He has not decided what ne will do
11)11 ATTEND MASONIC BAXOJET
, .... .. ,....,., ,.
uanquci oi llie liufti .-rui ..iiou ai
'. o'clock last night in the Thilo Build
ing. The women of the Thilo Chapter.
Order of the Eastern Star, served the
banquet. The out-of-town guests
were: X. Horace Mann, Kansas City,
grand lecturer of the Royal Arch Ma
sons of Missouri; Olaf A. Lucas, Kan
sas City, grand high priest: Charles
C. Gardner, Kirksville, past high priest,
and Homer Pruett, Centralia. Several
informal talks were given. The Royal
,Arch degree was conferred on three
candidates.
'
.Tenlsh Services Are Postponed.
On account of the inability of Rabbi
Louis Bernstein of St. Joseph to reach
Columbia today, the services scheduled
for tonight bv the Jewish students
have been postponed. Announcement
i will be made later of the new plans.
Scott to Retain Post a Month.
Fir United Tre
WASHINGTON. March 4. President
I Wilson wants General Hugh Scott to
serve as Secietary of War thirty days
' more, it was reported tonight.
THK WEATHER.
.K.'pnrt in.-. S.itunlii.v iiitirnlns.t
I r iliimlii.i .in,! Vl.inltv: Mostly
.l.iii.l.v iin.l uiiM-ttl.il Smi.Iar: wiinii-r
I or lloiiri. MiuiLiy miM-ttl.il. u:irm-r
mtlieat irtln.
Vtrutlirr Coii.IHIc.ii-.
Hi.- .-..1.1 i.. u drifting sutl.:t:,r,i.
iirrjlus with it rnvzliu: temperatures i..
Hie ii.irtli.Tii l...nl.-r of I'l.iri.I.i. On the
tl.-r hMiiiI. tli weather In tlie 1'IiiIim iiml
l..-k Mountain state U in...li-nit.-. ..win
to tin- .-1 1 i . r . ; i . 1 1 ..f a .,iv ir iir- sim.-iii
tr..m the in.rtlin.--t.
lWi).it.lt!..ll of . ,.;,-, o, 1(lllrs w:1.
i.m.iI. N-Iiik 'ontiii.-.l t,. rel.itiv.-lr -ni. ill
-ilea-, hi the nhh. vnl.'.j jinl on the mlil.ll.-.-ml
-..iiitli Athinth- . ...im. an. I on the north
I .-i.itii- .o.i-t .i.l .i f.-w other ..-altered
I.Hilltlc.
The line of j.-ro Ims retreated to North
I'.ikot.i ami th- lint- ..f :!' .l.-.-r. ..-. ..r
tin- Jli i-i-Il.i.i. i- not r.irlli.-r xoiitl. ili...
Northern Ark.in.i.. hnt in the east. .is
n'reailv Ih.-ntlonei! it runs fliti-.r.l ...
ii.e norin.-rn i.orn.-r or I-lorl.l.i
In t'oltiiiil.l.i the ue.itli.-r ilnrniL- the n.-t
-Ui hours will l.e'iiui" llion- or less lln-et
tl.il. I. lit n .inner. Most ,,f the snow now
on the -.Toinol .r..l..il.ly will have disnp
It.ir.il l.j Sun. lay hil-Iii.
VKM'K CIIAM.'E FOR IMMMHIHiK!
lielieied That Case Will lie Tried in
MMitirmiH-r.1 ur ll.mard Count.
It is believed at Centraila that the
case against W. H. Baldridge. charged
with the murder of Dr. J. Q. Cooper,
will not lie tripd in the Boone County
Circuit Cour:, but will probably be
taken to Montgomery or Howard
county on change of venue. This
course is believed to be faiored by
Baldridge's attorneys on account of
the feeling against the former police
officer.
SHIP SINKS; 3,130 DIE
! UJI
Greatest Modern
Disaster
Loss of La Provence,
is Unexplained.
I!y United Pres.
PARIS, .March i. The cause or the
sinking of the French transport La
Provence, a converted liner, which
went to tiie bottom in the Mediter
ranean February 2rt, was still a mys
tery tonight. No submarines were
seen before or after the sinking.
It was officially announced that
3,130 lives were lost, mostly of sol
diers, making the disaster the great
est of modern times. Of the -1,000
men on board when the ship sank,
only S70 were saved.
The Titanic's death list was l..".9."i.
lll'SHAM) AS BIRTHDAY CI FT
Miss Ah is Cets License on Day She
Conies of Legal Age.
"I would like to get a ma rriage
license," bashfully said Ernest C. Lep-
per to County Recorder John L. Henry
Thursday.
"How old are you?" began the re
corder with his usual line of questions.
"I am 24," replied Mr. Lepper.
"What is your name and how- old
are you?" asked Mr. Henry, turning
to the blushing girl who stood at the
side of her husband-to-be.
".My name is Lillian Ruth Alvis, and
I will be 18 tomorrow," she replied.
"Nothing doing." replied the record
er to the surprised pair. "Nothing
doing, according to law. You are not
of age. Come around tomorrow, and
I will let you have your husband as a'Be,heI chrch today.
birthday present."
Sadly the couple walked out. Early
Friday morning, just after Mr. Henry-
opened his office, the pair peeked
through the door, and then bravely
walked in.
I am 18 today.'
said Miss Alvis. "I
have come to claim mv birthdav pres-
ent. Mav we get our 'license now?"
"Sure' thing! Congratulations:"
cried the recorder.
The couple announced that they
would be married today at the home
of the bride in Centralia. .Air. Lepper
lives at Madison.
RANKS AS COLONIAL DAME
Miss Mattie Rae Sebastian Has Right
to Rare D. A. R. Title.
Miss Mattie Rae Sebastian of Co
lumbia, a graduate of the University
of Missouri, A. B. '11. B. S. in II. E.
'12, who is now doing research work
for her A. M. degree, has compiled an
ancestral record which shows her to
be entitled to the very rare title of
Colonial Dame." which is conferred i
by the Daughters of the Revolution, i
Her genealogical history has been I
compiled and sent to Washington to
be placed on record. ' W"H1 hold a meeting in the Commercial
There is no .local chapter of the ' Club rooms Tuesday night and Colonel
Colonial Dames, and it is possible that j McNeely will make a short talk on the
her membership will be held either in ; purposes of the company and will sls
St. Louis or Kansas City. To enjoy j slst them in laying their plans for the
tills distinction, one must show con- ' future.
clusively that her ances'ors on both "The company is coming along fine,"
sides cf the family participated in the i said E. E. Major. "But I w:ant to im
Revolution. Press on its members the necessity of
every one being at the meeting Tu-
Sf. Pat's Ball to He Ciiei. .train. day nIphn ,t w, be the most ,rapor
The St. Pat's annual ball will be . tant meeting we have had, and I want
given at Columbia Hall Friday. March i every member to, be there to meet
17. The chaperons will be President colonel McNeely."'
and Mrs. A. Ros Hill, Dean and Mrs. "
E. J. McCaustland, Prof, and Mrs. L.
M. Defoe, Prof, and Mrs. Guy D. New
ton, and .Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Nieder-meyer.
STORM ON ATLANTIC!
SHIPS CALL FOR AID
Clyde Liner Apache, With
100
'assengers, Sends Out
O. S. Message.
S.
l S. SUBMARINE. TOO
K-6 Is in Distress, and Two
Rescuers Speed to Her
Assistance.
l!j United Pre-.
WASHINGTON-. March I--The Clyde
liner Apache is in diVrcs otf Norfolk,
Va.. with H'U passengers on board.
The revenue cutter Onondatia was sent
to her relief tonight.
The submarine K-t; is in distress
near Jupiter Inlet, north of Key West,
said a dispatch to the Nay Depart
ment tonight. The Peoria and :h-coast-guard
cutter Tampa have been
sent from Key Wcst to her assistance.
Rough seas are supposed to have en
dangered the submarine.
Other vessels are reported to be in
danger in this vicinity in a terrific
storm which has been raging alon
'he coast for twenty-four hours.
MIT A COMPETITION. THEY SIV
-,','n''"'rs " Home Economics Depart
ment hxpiain ifuii t oniorenro.
It doesn't do any good to want to
know- which of the seventy-elgnt,
babies examined and scored in the
Baby Welfare Conference last week
ranks the highest. No results will t
announced. The home economics de
partment declares that the confer
ence was no: a competition. The pur
pose was to aid the mothers in carinpr
for their babies.
It is the aim of rhe department to
hold two conferences a year. At th
next, which will probably be in No
vember, efforts will be made to inter
est more mothers.
The departmen expresses its ap
preciation to th physicians and den
tists who helped, including W. El
Muns c- M- Snep1- E- Smitn- E-
Thornton. H. E. Stephenson, R. L.
. Lockridge, A. W. Kamiischmidt. E. R.
Clark, Max W. Myer, M. P. Raven.I
and C. W. Digges. Thanks also to Dr.
W. II. Pyle of the psychology depart-
ment. who was asisted by Miss Erma
Waltner and II. B. Brnner. The negro
babies were attended by Dr. J. A.
Taylor and Dr. J. C. Tymany.
MRS. W. IV. KE.ULEY. f,9, DIES
Boone Comity Pioneer Was Sister of
Miss Eta Johnston.
Mrs. W. W. Beazley of Willow
Springs, a sister of Miss Eva Johnston,
adviser of women in the University,
died at 3 o'clock Friday aftrnoon ar
ter an illness of several years. Th.'
funeral services will be held at the
Mrs. Beazley, who was 69 years old.
was one of the pioneer? of Boone
County. She was born February 22.
1S47. on the old Taylor place in Cedar
Township and spent nearly all her
life in Boone County. She was' tin
granddaughter of Captain William
.Johnston, one of the early sellers,
I April .5. 1S71, she was married. She
!is srvived by her husband and five
I children: Mrs. Nat Dodd. Columbia:
Mrs. W. I). Hart. Sikeston; W. J.
Beazley, Neville, Canada; A. J. Beaz
ley, Toronto. Kan.; R. F. Beazley, Chi-
; cago.
Brothers and sisters are Mis
1 Eva Johnston, Columbia
Mrs. Pen-
ter and Mrs. W. O. Ellis. Ashland;
J. W. Johnston and J. S. Johnston. Po
mona. Calif.; Dr. J. T. M. Johnston.
St. Louis.
COL. Mc.NEELY HERE TL'KSD.U
Nutional Guard Officer Will Talk to
Machine Cun Company.
Colonel John D. McNeely of the
Fourth Infantry. National Guard of
- Missouri, will be in Columbia Tuesday
to look over the new- addition to his
regiment the Columbia machine gun
company. .Members of the company
T. J. Hattnn Out for Council.
T. J. Hatton yesterday announced
that he would enter the race for coun
cilman from the First Ward.
