The Alliance Herald
The Leading Paper
of Western
Nebraska
3,000 Copies
20 Pages
Thre Sections'
READ BY EVERY MEMBER NEBRASKA STOCK GROWERS ASSOCIATION. ALL THE NEWS OF ALLIANCE AND WESTERN NEBRASKA
OFFICIAL ORGAN NEBRASKA VOLUNTEER FIREMEN'S ASSO CIATION. IT REACHES HEADQUARTERS FOR 15,000 FIREMEN
VOLUME XXIII
ALLIANCE, BOX BUTTE COUNTY, NEBKASKA, THURSDAY, JUNK 22, 1916
NUMBKIl 2
WAR BUSINESS IS
A SMALL PORTION
Constitute Only About. 1.67 Percent
of (iniMt National Income
from All Source
FACTS AND I Kil'KKS THAT
MAKK INTFKKSTINO BKADIXG
Country I More lro!M'roim under
Democratic Administration titan
tinder Former Iteglnie
There is no question that Secretary
of Commerce Red field was ultra-conservative
in his statement of facts
when, in a letter to Assistant Secre
tary of the Treasury Malburn, he
paid the war businet-s of this coun!ry
is Wb than 5 per cent of the total.
The total domestic business of the
United States in 1916 easily will
reach 142,000.000.000.
The manufactured product alone
will reach a value of $30,000,003
C00. The agricultural product which
does not pass through process of
manufacture will approximate in val-
e $7,000,000,000.
The product of the mines, such as
b1. natural gas, building stone,
F&nd and gravel, which does not go
through the manufacturing process,
will approximate 12,500,000.000.
. There is fully J3.000.000. 000
worth of manufactures produced out
side of the industrial centers and the
large plants covered by the census of
manufacture! in small shops and
homes and in villages and hamlets
not Included in the above f 30,000,-
0.000 total.
There is $1,000,000,000 worth of (The plan is to conduct two cam
liamanufactured products exported. paigns, one in the southern and one
There is another $1,000,000,000 ' in the northern part or trie assoeta
worth of miscellaneous production, j tion. The first series begins August
including the unmanufactured por-,13, in the Platte valley district, and
tion of the forestry and fishery prod-'the second November 9. in the north
i:ct. !ern district. The goal set for these
Yenrly Income $80.0M,0MMMO campaigns is the conversion of 200
So we havp $42,000,000,000 to souls into the kingdom of Christ.
$45,000,000,000 worth of commodi-i Friday evening at 6:30 came the
ties altogether, not Including earn-, "Dry Federation banquet, at which
IngB of railways, banks, wholesale plates were limited to 100. Dr. fJ.
and retail mercantile houses, insur- V. Taft was the first speaker. He
snce, shipping and so on, which make gave three strong arguments for pro
& total annual income approximating hibition: First, prohibition and busi
in this year of record prosperity not ness; second, prohibition and poli
os than $60,000,000,000. tics; third, prohibition and God. Rev.
The above is a rou'h estimate of R. E. York gave some convincing
the total business of the country. facts, taken from Kansas and other
What is the volume of war busi- prohibition states. Rev. Cams, pas
ness? tor of the M. K. church, then spoke
There are two senses in which the on "What Shall We Do?" The peo
term "war business" may be taken. p, responded happily to nil of these
First, there is the munition business addresses .with decided approval,
exclusively. This, though large as At the evening service Rev. R. E.
compared with its former peace total, York of Lincoln cave the inspiration
is scarcely a drop in the bucket as al address on "The Five Years Pro
compared with the country's busi- pram." He was followed by Dr. G.
ness total. W. Tuft of Grand Island college, who
For the entire twenty months of pave an address on the powerful in
the war down to March 31. 1916, the fluence of Christian missions upon
total exports of explosives and fire- the people of Japan and other iia
arms amounted to $330,000,000. or tions.
per cent of the entire $5,500,000,- Saturday morning was given to the
00 of exports during that period. .Sunday school and young people's
For the single calendar year 1915 work, under the direction of Rev. J.
exports of explosives and firearms to- 1 D. Collins, and a sermon by Rev. C.
taled approximately $200,000.000. ! M. Strong of Kilgore. In the after
For the sake of argument, let us sup- noon Rev. F. M. Sturdevant gave an
jose that munition exports in 1916 other splendid address, on "The Per
reach $300,000,000. (feet Plan."
Than One Per Cenl j In the evening. Dr. Geo. W. Taft
This Is less than three-fourths of 1 pave a most excellent address on the
per cent of the country's total pro- "Need of Denominational Colleges."
daction of commodities aggregating Sunday morning Dr. Wilson Mills
$42,000,000,000. tgave an excellent gospel sermon.
However, the term "war business" i Sunday afternoon came the woir.
ismuch broader, In the sense used by en's session, at which Mrs. A. A. Lay
Seeretary Redneld. than "munition ton presided. Mrs. Weymoth of
business." It includes all supplies chadron t-poke on "Inspiration of
used for war purposes, including , Mission Study;" Mrs. A. H. Robbins.
leather and wool goods, chemicals. "Echoes from the Northern Baptist
horses, automobiles, gasoline, ana a '
large supply of agricultural produc
tions. Including breadstuffs, meat
and dairy products, and has been es
timated by some authorities at about
$1,000,000,000 for the calendar year.
The total "war business" In this
sense is about 2.4 per cent of the
country's total production.
If we take the total income of the
United States from all industrial
sources plus railway, banking, insur
ance, mercantile, shipping and other
earnings, which may be roughly esti
mated at $60,000,000,000, we find
that the war business is 167 per cent
of the total.
In any sense of the term, there
fore, the war business of the United
States is such a small percentage of
the total thar politicians who are de
pending upon the loss of war busi
ness as a bogy to scare the American
people are likely to g-'t disappointed.
l.3tMtt to All Countries
The fact is. the total volume of our
exports to all countries, belligerent
and neutral, and for all purposes, in
dustrial, commercial and war is on
ly 9 per cent of our total production.
Moreover, the present total pro
duction for domestic uses only, after
deducting exports, is far greater than
the total production both for domes
tie and export demand in 1913 and
former ears.
Finally, the present prospect is
that the end of the war. by restoring
to us a market for $500,000.00" of
exports to Germany, Belgium, Au--tria-Hungary,
and other belligerents
a business which now is almost a
complete loss will not materially
reduce even the total volume of our
exports.
It should be borne in mind that
the war now shuts out an export
trade which is nearly double the an
nual volun e of the munition exports.
By way of summary we find the
facts as regurds war business to be
these:
1. Munition products exported to
Europe constitute only three-fourths
of 1 per cent of the total annual production.
ANNUAL MEET1VC
BAPWKiJIATION
targe Alt al Kntliuslastlc
1'rop T .eetliiK Held in
lawt Week
The Northwestern Baptist Associ
ation of Nebraska met this year in
Alliance, June 15 to 18. Those who
have been In the association longest
say it was the best ever held in north
western Nebraska, there being the
largest attendance and the most en
thusiastic program.
The first meeting was Thursday,
2:30 p. m., which opened with a de
votional service lead by Itev. Hend
ricks of Bayard.
Hev. F. M. Sturdpvant of Chadron
wa-s the first speaker, taking for hia
subject "The Fundamental of Faith,
and the Rise of Denominatlonalism."
He used a large chart and Scripture
references, and from historical facts
he drew conclusions as to the rise of
denominationalism. A very inter
esting discussion followed.
Thursday evening Kev. E. Brown
of Scottsbluff preached the annual
sermon.
Frldav morning the church letters
were read by E. K. Philips. Rev. C.
M. Strong lead in the discussion. The
reports of the churches as shown by
the letters were very encouraging.
The "Five years program" was the
subject for the afternoon, goal one,
two and three being presented by
Rev. Ray E. York, goal four by Rev.
J. D. Collins, goal five by Dr. O. V.
Taft of Grand Island college. This
j five years program was the keynote
of the association, and provideB for a
(forward movement in evangelism.
Convention; Mrs. Newell of Chica
go. A Message irom jionie illu
sions." Mrs. Taft of Grand Island
spoke for the Woman's Foreign Mis
sions. Mrs. H. Wray gave report
from Bayard and McGrew. Mrs.
Phillips, of Chadron; Mrs. Strong, of
Kilgore; Mrs. Carpenter, of Alliance.
This was a meeting of real upllfe to
the work of the women.
The meetings closed Sunday even
ing with the evangelistic sermon by
Rev. Ray E. York. There were pres
ent thirty-seven delegates and seven
visitors. The women of the local
church served two meals each day to
all, In the church basement.
Mrs. E. G. Laing and Miss Kutn
Layton planned and furnished spec
ial music during the association, ine
committees did excellent work. The
entertainment committee especially.
in locating the delegates. People of
other denominations opened their
doors to the delegates. A real wel
come was extended to the association.
Rev. B. F. Farrar of Genng was
re-elected tis .moderator, and E. R.
Phillips of Chadron as clerk of the
association. The next meeting place
is at Calvary Baptist church, Morrill.
Nebr.
2. Total exports for war purposes
approximate 2.4 per cent of the total
product ion.
3. Total war business constitutes
about 1.67 per cent of the gross na
tional income from all sources.
Cessation of war will restore to
the l'nied States $500,000,000 of
exports, which is about double the
present annual munition exports.
Will Mar-Jige Alliance Xcw
F. R. Mayes, who has been engag
ed in newspaper work at Valentine,
Nebr., has arrived in Alliance and
will manage the News for F. M.
Broome, who is receiver of the al
entlne land office. Mr. MaycB is a
brother of C. L. Mayes, editor and
proprietor of the Rushville Standard.
Skinner's Macaroni Products, mad.
m Nebraska. Ask your grocer. Ad
j FATHER DOES SOME CENSORING
v . Tims? - ' ' '
M'CANNE ON PREPAR'DNE'S
New Mexico Subscriber of The Her
ald Write Ket;ardiiut Ads of
lletlileliem Steel Conipanj
Artesla. N. M., June 13, 1916.
Editor Alliance Herald,
Alliance, Nebraska.
Dear Sir: I was rather surprised to
find the advertisement "Bulletin
number one" in your paper over the
naine "Bethlehem Steel Company",
for I had been reading Hon. Clyde
.Tavenner's speeches showing how the
three big armor plate plants had been
charging the U. S. government more
Ithan double what they are charging
for armor plate to foreign govern
ments. I clipped out the bulletin number
one and sent it to Mr. Tavener with
a request that he verify his state
ments. In reply he sent me his
speec h of May 3, 1916, in which he
says his challenge not only to the
Navy League but to congress to deny
any statement he has made has nev
er been met, and t hat his resolution
calling for a full investigation which
he contends will verify all his state
ments has not- bti4h"u'luU upon.
I was pleased to tee in the last is
sue of The Herald your editorial re
ferring to Mr. Tuvener'B speeches on
this subject and urging your readers
to post themselves on preparedness.
It is really surprising how a few
capitalists can create public senti
ment in favor of militarism by such
exaggerated scare pictures as "The
Battle Cry of Peace" and the mon
ster parades of deluded people that
are being carried out through the
help of a subsidized press.
I hope to see your paper continue
to show up the motives of the Navy
League. .Militarism has been the
downfall of nations since civilization
began und it is the menace of our
government right now.
(Signed) D. J. McCANNE.
THE DRY BANQUET
FRIDAY EVENING
Well Kimiuii Speakers Were on Pro
gram at HUHjuet, Which Uw
Attended by tiood Crowd
Alliance's first "Nebraska Dry ban
quet" was held at the basement of
the Baptist church Friday evening.
The plates were all taken, and there
were over one hundred present. Rev.
A. A. Layton, pastor of the Baptist
church, filled the place of toastmas
ter in a very caiable manner.
Rer. Geo. W. Taft, president of
Grand Island college, was the first
speaker of the evening and at the
close of his speech was roundly ap
plauded. 'He predicted that Nebras
ka will go dry at the fall election by
from-20.000 to 45.000 votes.
Rev. Ray E. York of Lincoln, well
known over the state, was the sec
ond speaker. He stated that he was
originally from Kansas and quoted
Kansas statistics ad facts as argu
ments for prohibition.
Dr. J. B. Cams, pastor of the Al
liance Methodist church, was the last
speaker at the banquet and commun
icated from his stock of enthusiasm
to the crowd. . lie characterized Ne
braska as "the finest state in the l'n
ion" and told of his work in Box
Butte county in the dry caue. He
also called attention to candidate, on
the state tickets.
The benediction was pronounced
by Rev. H. J. Younn. pastor of the
Alliance Christian church, and the
crowd adjourned to the meeting
which was" held in the church audi
torium. Beautiful Bouquet of Peonies
The Herald office wishes to ac
knowledge receipt of a beautiful bou
quet of monster peonies from Mr.
and Mrs. George Davis. The flowers
were raised at Hastings by Robert
Graham, and are so large that they
attract instant attention. Mr. Gra
ham is a brother-in-law of Mrs. Da
vis and superintendent of the ceme
tery at Hastings. Mr. and Mrs. Da
vis are great lovers of flowers, having
one of the finest flower gardens in
Alliance.
MEMINGFORD DEPARTMENT
Mrs. Miller of Berea was shopping
in town Friday.
William Cary was on the sick list
for a few days last week.
K. L. Pierce and wife autoed to
Alliance Friday night.
Carl Spacht was down to Alliance
Friday p. m. on business matters.
Stanley Civish is enjoying a visit
from his uncle, Mr. Civish of Chica
go. Mi SB Gertrude Delslng Is visiting
friends at Ellsworth at the present
time.
Miss Sadie Hopkins is spending a
few days on the ranch with her par
ents near Dunlap.
Mrs. W. F. Walker returned Mem-
day ou 44 from a two months' visit
with relatives In Wyoming.
Miss Agnes Delsing relumed to
Omaha Friday after spending n few-
weeks with her parents here.
... .
Mr. and Mrs. Jay Hall and babies
are visiting in town this week guests
or Mr. and Mrs. Fred Melick.
A bright baby girl arrived at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Earl Ben net
on Friday. June 16. We extend con
gratulations.
Miss Agnes Moravek of Canton
was operated on at the St. Joseph
hospital in Alliance last Wednesday
for appendicitis. She Is gaining rap-
Idly.
! Born. Friday, June 16. to Mr. and
Mrs. Charlie Moser, a ten-pound ba
: by girl. Mother and toby doing fine.
and Charlie Is wearing a million dol-
i lar smile.
I
Quite a bunch of Marsland young
folks attended the dance at this
place Saturday eve. We extend a
cordial Invitation to our friends to
come again.
i
Miss Sadie Hopkins, who has been
head saleslady at the Lock wood
: store, has resigned her position, and
Miss Ella Brown has town chosen to
fill the vacancy.
Mrs. Gladys Woods and mother.
Mrs. Burleigh, came down from
Marsland Monday. Mr. Burleigh is
moving his family to this place to be
nearer his work.
The ball game last Friday on the
local diamond between the Alliance
Presbyterians and Heralngford Meth
odists was a rather one-sided affair,
the score being 25 to 5 in favor of
Hemlngford.
.
Several from this plaee were fish
ing at the river Sunday, some of
whom were Mr. and Mrs. I. R. Walk
er and Mr. and Mrs. Philip Michael.
They report a very pleasant time and
Rupert said the water was cold but
the fun of drying clothes by eampfire
was very exhileratlng.
Allow Claim for Itemovliig Dirt
At the council meeting held last
week the claim of J. A. Armour, re
nding at 822 Box Butte avenue,
n oniitinc to $59.75 for the remov
al of dirt and lowering of his side
wall's, caused by the cutting of the
street to grade, was allowed. Mr.
rtnour is one of those who did not
sue the city for damages on account
of the lowering of the street.
Mr. Curtis, proprietor of the Cur
tis Home Bakery, left Motiday for
Sterling on a business trip.
Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Brnon e. of W1
entlne. formerly of Alliance, are in
the city this week. Mr. Broome is
attending to business connected with
the Alliance News, and Mrs. Broome
Is visiting with friends.
Miss Nell Acheson and her si.ster,
Mrs. A. C. McDonald, returned to Al
liance Tuesday from Sheridan, Wyo.
Miss Nell went to Sheridan recently
for a visit. Mr. McDonald has been
transferred back to Alliance and they
will make their home in the city
"Scamp", the bulldog, accompanied
theiu back.
SECOND MEETING OF
PUBLISHERS ASSOCIATION
We tern Nebraska Publishers Meet
SNturday Kvening at IlrldgeiKH-t
fr Second Meeting
The second meeting of the West
ern Nebraska Publishers Association,
comprising the counties of Morrill,
Scott Bluff, and Box Butte, was held
at Bridgeport, Nebr., Saturday even
ing, June 17.
Those in attendance at the meet
ing were R. A. Wisuer, Bayard Tran
script; Bruce Wilcox and Max Wil
cox, Bridgeport News-Blade; R. O.
Chambers, Mlnatare Free Press; C.
D. Casper, Bridgeport Herald; H. .1.
WIsner and R. J. Dobell, ScottsbluiT
Star-Herald; E. T. Westervelt,
Scottsbluff Republican; Lloyd c.
Thomas. Alliance Herald; G. E.
Mark, Mitchell Index; Ben J. Sal-1
Iowa, Alliance Times; A. B. Wood,
Gerlng Courier.
Articles of association wore adopt
ed and the following officers elected i
for the year commencing with June:
E. T. Westervelt, president; Bruce
Wilcox, vice president; Lloyd C.
Thomas, secretary; O. E. Mark,
treasurer. The executive committee
consists of the officers.
A delicious banquet waB served in
courses at tue Wilcox nome, wiiu
Mrs. Bruce Wilcox as hostess. At
the close of the meeting resolutions
of thanks were extended to Messrs.
Wilcox and Casper for their hospital
ity and to Mrs. Wilcox for the ban
quet. Ben J. Sallows, In behalf of the
Alliance delegation, extended an In
vitation to the association to hold Its
next meeting In Alliance September
2. The Invitation was accepted.
President Westervelt waB voted the
champion story teller and will main
tain this title until the next meeting,
at which time others have signified
their intention of meeting him in
the "squared circle".
WILSON WILL SPEAK
Democratic Candidate for Slate Hall
way Commissioner to SH-ak
July Fourth
Victor Wilson of St roinslmrg,
Democratic candidate for state rail
way commissioner at the fall elec
tion, will be a speaker on the pro
gram in Alliance July 4. Mr. W II
son is known as a good talker and a
man who is posted on present 1st -ues.
Mr. Wilson will also speak at Ells
worth in the afternoon of the same
day.
A. G. Brlee of Alliance Is a broth
er-in-law of Mr. Wilson and will en
tertain him while in the city.
JOSEPH KIME WAS ROBBED
Former llov Itulte County Man, Now
MviiiK in Illinois. ItohlM'd ol
I'nqterty and Money
Joseph Klme of Streator, 111., a
former Box Butte county resident,
who still owns property here, was
robbed of $50 in cash and his suit
case on his way to Alliance last week.
Mr. Klme had no clue to the robbers,
although the railroad authorities aiv
making a strenuous search for the
culprits.
Mr. Kiiue will return to his home
this week, after looking after hi.
property interest here.
Currie With I'm Again
C. A. Currle, formerly manager of
the Alliance exchange of the Nebras
ka Telephone Company, now holding
an Important position with the com
pany at Grand Island, is in the city
on business this week and renewing
old acquaintances. Mr. Curtie was
accompanied as far as Broken Bow
by Mrs. Currle, who will visit her
parents there for a short time.
Mb McDonald to Sterling, Nebr.
Miss Phania McDonald, a former
Alliance girl, daughter of J. A. Mc
Donald of Havenna. left her home
Wednesday for a visit with Miss Fos
ter at Sterling, Nebr. She was ac
companied by Miss Louis Kinney on
the trip. Mr. McDonald waB in Alli
ance Monday and uesday, returning
home Tuesday night.
New ItaKclMtll Suit Here
The baseball suits for the Alliance
team have arrived and thoao who at
tend the game next Sunday will have
the opportunity of Beeing the boys
bedecked in the newest of the new.
The suits are of double strength and
tine quality cloth, as the team is
planning on some strenuous work
during the summer games.
Will llecnilt New f (etciitient
"General" Felton, a member ol
AlliatM't 's bpseball team, w 'II 'it
o'clock "next week" open a tvcruii
ing station for a new Alliance regi
ment, 'he volunteers to auroe lo
ypciui not li'.s than six months In
Mexico. Felton his spi-nt tome tim
in old Mexico and says that an Alli
ance baseball ga e is nearly as warm
as the climate down there. Shep
herd, of the nine, who Is suffering
severely from an injured hand, is be
ing used as the "veteran-soldier" for
the recruiting station.
itn-).t of .Mr. and Mr. Iii'iu
i:v. Geo. W. Taft. president of
Grand Inland college, who attended
the Baptist convention in Alliance
last week, was the guest of Mr. and
Mrs. K. G. Ixiing while in the city.
LIVESTOCK PRICES
AT SOUTH OMAHA
Cattla Market Steady to Low
er, Trada Rather Slow
HOBS FB0HJ0-15C LOWER
Sheep and Lambs Steady; Largest
Lamb Run For Monday For Twe
Months Ewes, Wethers and Year,
lings Go Fairly Readily at About
. Last Week's Prices.
Union block Yards, South Omaha,
Neb., June 20, 1916. The week oo
d with a very moderate run of cauls,
soma 144 loads, or about 3.500 head.
Owing to the limited offerings and tha
fair demand from boih local and shljh
per buyers, sellers started out to gut
at least steady prices, but were)
disappointed. Business was rath
er slow throughout, the food to
choice beeves veiling al $ 10.30 & 10.60
and the best yearlings around $U.760
10.25. The demand seemed strong for
the choice cattle, the fair to good
1,000 to 1,30 pound beeves going at
$9.50(10.00. The supply of she stock
was comparatively small and went at
about steady prices.
Quotations bo cattle: Good to choice
beeves, $10.30010.81; fair to goo4
beeves, $9.40010.20; common to fair
beeves, $8.350840; good to cholc
yearlings, $9.60010.40; fair to good
yaaxllngs, $8.76(3 .50; common to fair
yearlings, $7.2508.60; good to cholc
heifers, $8.008.76; good to cholc
cows, $7.008.60; fair to good cows,
$6.2607.25; canners and cuttsrs, $4.09
426.25; veal calves, $9.00011.75; grass
bulls, $6.0007.00; beef bulls, $7.35 'J.
825.
There was a good supply of hos
on Monday's market, 121 cars or 7,600
head. The packers started out m
good season and the sellers, seeing
that a break was inevitable, the of
ferings went on a 10t15c lower basis
than at the close of last week. A good
share of the sales were made at $9.3
69.40. end $9.35 being a popular
price for strings. Several bunches ot
good butchers and heavies reached
$9.45 and the toys landed $9.50.
The largest run of sheep and lambs
for a Monday since April was on hand
on Monday's market, arrivals amount
ing to 35 cars, or about 8,700 head.
Most of the offerings were rang
spring lambs, and with this generous
supply to pick from the packtrs mad
their selections in a leisurely manner,
early offerings being 25c below last
week's prices, and as the sellers weie
asking less than steady money aot
much of anything was done until tat
In the forenoon. Shorn Idaho year
lings bronchi $7.50 and wethers about
$.0't wl.ile decent to best ewes noli
al d Mi4 C..r.0.
Quotations on s'.eep and lnnb:
l.i. ml h. spring, $8..m4j 1 1.25; lamb,
fall to Iioi.e I andy, $J25$j!.75;
!. nibn, fai- to c'rvie havy,
P2.r.; ye:-1')ii,p, fn!" to chn'ce heavy,
?!-. fflr to choic
' $" ; : w : f.'n ii
r. sin,! -i
i ewes, ;ir to jol.
:..m. rt
Still Ma-pie !(' li
James Watnon .f Mari1 on Tues
day sold his 800 r-re rari'-h. oi which
the Marple postcrftce in located, for
the sum of $11 00. Th- sale wh
made through tl pfrrn, y of C; IT.
Cantield of Ifvmi'tgford.
Aiiiilel o Library It rd
Mayor Homig has appointed us
members of the city library board,
for terms of thr - years. K. G. Lain
and Prof. W. H. nae. There is still
another membfr !o be appointed,
which will be dene soon.
New 41t- Ordinance
The city counil has passed ordin
ance number 222, published In Th1.
Herald this week, establishing th
license fee foe fire insurance agen'4
and companies d.ing business in tb
city. The licens' fee has been set at
five dollars, in jicordance with th
state law, and Must be paid by a!l
who do business.
tlly Scale I,, te Sold
The city cound has recousidi re I
its decision to remove the city scales
from the city hall to the electric light
plant and has placed them on sale,
and is now advertisiriK for bids. Th-
cost of setting the scales at the plant
w tH ei tnnHted at $100. w I ich waa
OTiMi 'ered more than they would b
worth. The average Income from
'heir ne hs averueed about thirty
f-enis er month.
Will tirade ami Construct City Main
At the coiTiicil meeting hefd last
wn-k tils were received on street
.'rndiiig at Seventh and Missouri.
About one thousand yards of dirt are
to be moved. The bid of John Gar
rett for twenty-five cents per yard
being the lowest was accepted.
Bids were also received for th
laying of water maius for the exten
sion on Mistiasippi avenue. The bid
cf K. A. Jeffers for nineteen cents
per foot being the lowest was accepted.
