I
vcl. Lvni. r;o. 143
pciulatic:; 2?":,
PRICE TV.' 3 CENTS
Th3 Ou:!:ti.i'G Glrculatlcn n Kcrv.::.; b D;,:l- shut d
Ar.y I,
I ' " j
l;;ci:ii:icn .b fa.Lcrgsst ia:Ccr.n::t:t-b Frc;::rtion Jo' tha City's' Pcpufcticn.
1 -
, 1
i 3
Asa 1 J
mm. W
4 '
s II
U-dalVy
if
li'vliii.tJ
American Control in San Domingo.'
Santo Domingo. Dominican Renulio,
June 21. Rear Admiral Caperton,
commander 'of the American expedi
tionary forces, has decided to extend
Ins sphere of operations and take over
two of the principal towns In the in
Arncriccin bid Carranza Trccps in Llzzi C"Ub ca the
Santo Domingo Ranch
SCOHE OF 10TH CAVALRY , TROOPERS KILLED
Mexican Loss is Placed at Two Score -Seventeen Americans
" Are Said to Have Been Captured and Hurried to Chi-
but whether that means In a day or
two or more, I cannot Bay."
3r. .Baker would not discuss Gen
eral Funston's message saying how
many men he wanted as soon as
available and 'to what points he wish
ed the mrouted. Major General
Scott, chief of staff, indicated that the
organizations which are first "to-complete
musty into the service and
which are well placed geographically
will be sent forward promptly.
The general plan under which the
state allotment of troops to be call
ed out was made known as the twelve
division plan, prepared by the war de
partment in 1912. A later scheme of
organization has superseded this for
use in a great war, ,but the old plan
meets the present situation best. Un
der it th, units called out represent
twelve fun army divisions when prop
erly grouped. At peace strength they
would' total 100,000 men; pa, full war
W ri I 1 U i i Am fcl
1 li II 4j i I
Expected -Hourly
ENTENE ALLIES EXERTING A RE- I
STRAINING INFLUENCE.,
n
nrn
m ,m j IT If Mm
ttttllUulls Ul i
VILLAGE OF GRU1ZIATIN CHANG"
- EDj HANPS SEVERAL TIMES,
NO FORECAST GIVEN 1,000 1 RUSSIANS TAKEN
Diplomatic Representatives in Mexico i
Believe German Influences Are at
Work to Create a Situation - That
Might Embarrass Entente Power.
In Bukowina the Muscovites Continue
to Drive the Austrians; West and
Northwest No Changs in Positions
in the Verdun Sector.
summoned are to 'be expanded to as
near that maxlmus as possible by re
cruiting - in the states from which
they come. ..
huahua City -A Machine Gun Used by Mexicans is Re-1 strength, approximately ;25ofSoo. tm
'" - 1 ' 'J - -. r I organizations President -Wilson has
ported to Have Done Heavy Execution -Only Ofacial
Details Are From Mexican Source -Claim is Made That
the American Trocps Fired First General Gomez, Who ! general funston receives
. . - . . . ... REPORT FROM GENERAL BELL
Was fviiied in toe Action, relieving Americans Were
About to Attack, Signalled Machine Gun to Open Fire. .
"Washington, June 21. Some inti
mation as to what General Carranza's
next step will be was expected hourly
tonight at the state -department. Offi
cial advices reported that the Ameri
can rejection of the demand for . the
recall of General Pershing's troops'
from Mexico was under, consideration '
today by the first chief and his cab
inet -- -
Little News from" Mexico City. '
Special Agent Rodgers, who made I In the fighting the . town changed
tne report, was unaDie to forecast the I nanas several times but under a con
action of the de facta government I centra ted German artillerv- fire the
and threw little light on what was 1 Russians finally were driven back with
going on in uie'Mexican capital. From I the . loss of 1,000 men made prison'
Fierce fighting, with the Germans
generally the aggressors,- is In pro
gress between the Russians and the
Germans in Volhynia, along the Stok
hod and Styr rivers and In the region
jying Detween mtsk and Vladimir
Volynski. - The Russians who had
crossed the Styr and reached the vil
lage of Gruziatin, west of Kolki, en
tered tne town ana captured 11 of
ficers,- 40y men and six machine guns.
Wt4 Ul I W U III,
The London Stock Exchanas -will be
closed on July 1. ,
Fresh peace demonstrations- in Vi
enna are reported. ,
Mrs. Virell D. Parris. aoed 102. filed
at Paris Hill. Me.
Bread riots are- reported from sev
eral towns In Greece.
ADDRESSESVGRADUATING CLASS
AND ALUMNI OF BROWN.
Women have replaced men as forest
ers on some German estates.
The New York Coffee & Sugar Ex
change will remain closed on July Z.
' Abo.ut 650. American refugees arriv
ed at Douglas, Ariz, from Cananea.
Smith College, Northampton, Mass,
graduated a class of 331 young women.
Mexico's pre-revolutionary debt to
tals $200,000,000 United - States cur
rency. .
C The Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad 1b
reported in the market for 1,500 box
cars.
' An order for 2,000 horses was placed
at East St. Louis by the United States
Army.
A membership to the New York
Stock Exchange was purchased for
$65,000.
While His Speech Was Devoted Al
most Wholly to Brown Traditions,
Mr. Huge Deviated to . Give His
Views of True American Spirit.
Mexicans Boast They Decoyed
American Troop Into Action.
the
El Paso, Tex, . June 21,--American
and Carraoiza troops fought a bloody
battle today only a , few hours after
President Wilson's eix thousand word
rebuke yesterday to General Carranza
had crone . forward - to Mexico Ci:v.
With whit side Victory xested is not
(known. , . .. - s -.
Number of Dead Not ' Known, 'jy
' The engagement took place on the
j Santo Domingo ranch near the Mexl
; can town-of Carrizal, whkb is nine
'rallea southwest of Villa" Atoumada, the
Mexican field headquarters in north
ern CnihusJiua, The number of dead,
-Mexican or American, was not defi
nitely known here tonight, but nearly
a score of General Pershing's men are
eaid to have been killed and the -Mexicans
are said to have Host more "than
two score. Seventeen Americans are
declared by Mexican officials to have
been captured and to have been hur
Ttied to Cfiihuanua City under adequate
kuard. A machine gun used by the
Mexicans, is reported ,' to have done
Beavy execution. . ,
Probably Tenth Cavalry, s
The .Americans engaged axe thought
10 have been members of a troop from
-the Tenth, cavalry, a , negvo regiment,
returning from a" scouting trip to Guz
man. The size of the Mexican force,
whose commander, General ' Felix
Gomez, was killed, is not known.
. 8aw Number of , Mexicans Dead.
News of the battle was received in
Juarez early this afternoon by Gen
eral Francisco -Gonzales, r- Oarranza
Commander of the militalry zone along
the border. For some reason General
S.Gonzales Kept the etory secret until
late in the afternoon, vtien an Ameri
can. J. C. Huppel, returning to the
.border from the interior, brought to
.El Paso the news that he had seen
numbers of (Mexican dead along the
iJVIexican Central railroad " tracks at
Villa, Ahumada and had been tcld
, that there had been an encounter.
Charges American Troops Fired First.
( General Gonzales first step after
confirming the news was" to issue a
statement placing the blame on the
American commander... He. charged
rhat ilie American troops fired first on
J the Mexicans and that their ehota
were directed at a courier who had
Just presented to them a request that
iney retire.
i American army officers declared ab
solute disbelief tonight in General
Gonzales' assertions. The opinion was
expressed hat if the Americans fired
on the 'Mexicans- they did so because
!t was necessary In order to insure
i their own safety.
t General Trevino's recent warning to
General Pershing not to send his
troops south or west of tlieir positions
was recanea.
' . Excitement in EI Paso. .
, excitement spread in El Faso as
extras were Issued and the news be
vme- known. Quiet was maintained.
nowever, in view ol General Eell's fre
quent admonitions that . his soldiers
.could take care of any situation that
mignt arise. While awaiting instruc
( lions from headquarters at San An
J tonio, General Bell kept his entire
i xorce in readiness for instant action
: - In the meantime, word came from
Juarez that all was quiet, although
news of the battle was widespread
rnere.
Early tonight the only official de
tails of the engagement deceived here
came from tlie Mexican side of the
river. General Gonzales said that his
information was transmitted to him
from Villa Ahumada today by Colonel
Genovezo Rives, who commanded the
Mexicans after their leader, GeneraJ
wm5!, was elaln. General Gonzales
also gave the Mexican explanation of
now tne two Iorces came into contact.
Mexican Account of Battle.
According to General Gonzales, he
was informed by General Gomez at
villa Ahumada last night of. the pres
Bnce of the Americana westward be
tween Villa Ahumada and El Valle. He
says he immediately instructed Gen
eral Gomez to proceed to the Santo
j Domingo randh, wher? Hie Americans
; were reported In "unknown force." and
advise their commander to retire to
tnwr camp. :
4 This, he says, General Gomez did
ims morning. . The American . com-
mander, whose name was not given
f by General Gomez, is aid to' have re
plied that he was Instructed to proceed
iu vuia. juiumaaa ana must flo SO.
Whichever side began the emraere
. ment, the 'Mexicans had the advanta ge,
for they had provided themselves with
a machine gun, and this is supposed
to have done deadly execution in the
ranks of the Americans. That the lat
ter were not inefficient, however, was
proved by the number of Mexican
dead and wounded' removed to Villa
Ahumada and witnessed by Americans
coming north on a train bound for
Juarez,
Lasted About an Hour. .
Tne atue oegan aoout 10.30 a. m.,
and lasted not more than an hour. It
apparently er.aea witn otti siiies
withdrawing. The failure of General
Persian to report it indicated that
the . American ' survivors bad:' not yet
San Antonio. Texas. June 21. Gen
eral Funston received late tonight
from General Bell at El Paso the
returned to their base at an early bourl Mexican version of a fight today be-
tonight.
" Story Told by an American.
A story brought to El Paso by J. S.
Hubble, an American who has been
employed by the Compania Agricola at
Bouquillas, bears out several of the
tween a detachment of General Persh'
ing"s troops and troops of the de fac
to government at Carrizal, nine miles
southwest of Ahumada, -
A slightly different version waa
brought to Et Paso .by. an American
who passed through - A'humada and
other sources, however. It was learn
ed that European diplomats are ex
erting pressure on Carranza to pre
vent mm irom going to war with the
United States. - The entente allies are
particularly anxious, it is understood,
that nothing should occur at this time
to shut off the oil supplies for the
French and ; British navies from the
Tampico fields.
German Influences at Work.
AH diplomatic . representatives ' In
Mexico - believe, too, that German ln-
uences have nee nworking on Carran
za in an effort to create a situation
that might embarrass-the enemies of !
the central powers. - They have as-
ers.
Hand-to-Hand Fighting.
dptail nf tha oneflrcmptit nrwamtofl h .L """ . .s -".nuumua. o-nu me central powers. - xney nave as
G GoSnhwJatnwS : Mican . bating- that serted that German agencies hav
k.j v. t.. ir...., ...(i... iuy nau aecoyea me Americans into
corroborated by James Maxey. another
American, who also was on his way to
El Paso from the - interior. Hubble
and Maxey said that vitiile their jtrain
was stopping at Villa Ahumada they
noticed numbers of dead and wounded
being brought - in and were told by a
carranza captain -that a battle had
taken, place. The captain-informed
them, they said, that -a - number of
Americans, prisoners, had been locked
In a cattle car and were to be taken
to Chihuahua City to be hanged.
They mentioned Mexican soldiers
who told them that several hundred
Americans and 120 Mexicans had been
engaged,
, - ' Boasted of Ambush.
Hubble and Maxey said that' some
or the Mexicans openly -boasted, that
the Americans had ; been drawn into
an . am-bushv1' t-' -h .' y-y
"The Jtcxlcaa officers at Villa Ahu
mada, A. treated us with the : greatest
courtesy,", said Mr.- Hubble
" "They answered our auesttons trnleti
ly and with no shorwof antipahyor
excitement.
an action by the use of a ag of truce.
1 ne 1 casualties on either side were
not reported by General Bell, whose
information was received from An
dres Garcia. Mexican consul at EI
Paso, who give it at the request of
Along the Stokhod near the village
of Rajmiesto the Germans delivered
a Ijeavy attack which- resolved itself
later into hand-to-hand fighting In
which the Russians, according to Pe
trograd, forced the Germans to flee.
Near Kiselm another heavy on
slaught was stopped by the Russians
and the Germans put to' flight. Near
Lokatri-i, southeast , of Vladmlr-Voly-nsk.
Vienna reports the capture of 1,-
300 Russians. ' : . ' i
- Drive of Austrians . Continues. . '
North, west and northwest of Lutsk
vicious encounters are taking place.
Across the frontier in Galicia the
stalemate in the region of Buczacz
persists. In Bukowina tbe. Russians
continue to drive the Austrians west
and southwest. Petrograd announces
that the prisoners taken by the Rus-
to
Austrian income tax levies - now
amount to as much as 45 per cent, in
some cases. . .
been active in stirring up feeling
against the United States not only in
Mexico, but throughout South ; and
Central America. to " prevent ' this
country from securing trade former
ly controlled by German merchants.
" - . - 1 - . . . 1 1 1 v luiiy iLia. auu jiuiuiaui
"""-'u' wmuimuw ai ju- nae i;uimea out 10 renera.i warranza I June 15 aggregated 172 824.
' -,v,a.cfi ua i ccivcu i Liiait1 to Amenvui note only 'aecunes
X 42 i.Mrofi . Bta . i? co?safr unmeaiateiy any surges- their arms on the northern part of
f."0?1 i?!av that connects O on that its troops ;be withdrawn from the Russian front in the Dvinsk.
f T. hnMr ' . ana lnax a portion Smorgon and Duba towaka-sectors,
a-'Te wounded were Sf he ement . between General Uith the infliction of heavy losses on
u DL-Ult aiin trciiemi uureKOIt DrOVlQinZ I fh. D,i..tn. w Ka latt MHnn
RYnm tha imar-tnar, 1 .i M.I .i." j...,!"-"" . . &
luiousu. jiiiumaua at a.su o ciocK. tnis i wi.tnarawai or tne iorces
aiternoon wenerai ueu. learned that
lean rorce, to be a detachment of the rntsluli", JV6,,t,w "lanlk'1
rentb cayalry. - . , - I OF COLUMBIA NATIONAL GUARD
A large aniline 'dyes plant will be
erected at' Syracuse, N. Y, by the
Semet-Solvay Co. . s - -,
A petition for a holiday on- July S
was circulated on the noor or the cm
cago Board of Trade. "" '
About 3,000 employes at the Hope
well, Va, plant of the du Pont Powder
Co, have been laid off. ' - -
Speaking at Kelheim, King Louis of
Bavaria strongly urged the population
to persist In the war. - -
Mors than 7X00 citizens will re
ceive military training at tbe Platts
burg military camp in July.
Campaign for 20,000 additional men
for .the regular army has netted 10,-
ii v recruits in tne last aays. .
Police resrves wsrs called ' out in
Bayonne, N. J, to handle the crowds
of men eager to join the militia.
No Change of Positions at Verdun.
On both sides of the' Meuse river In
the region of Verdun the Germans
again launched strong attacks against
the French positions but were every
fttJEME, FORREORGANiZATIOjTroops Jnclud
FOR THE REGULAR-nARMY ' employes and yeuths. Just Cut jof Ibardrnents there were .comparatively
- I ' u:T c I 1 - - . r I nuif r-n t tqHo rr tbo ruTifh frftnt
niUn- I M ' - v... -'-' I ' - ...... . . .
. . - . ' : - ' I on Wednesday.
Wajshitifftnn: "Jiinn 51 firiAr. . Rome- reports the capture of ' an
Will .Give Generat . Funston i ' Twelve
':. ; New Regimental Units.
Mexican Command Was Concealed.
Washington. June 81. The scheme
of reorganization for the regular army
under the- new armv bill nlnn wajj n.
''According to the . storv thev told I nouneed todav. It 'nrovidea - for thn
usr; the Mexican command was "con- additionof seven regiments of (n-
cealed in the underbrush when it ji is- I fantrv. two of cavnlrv fhro nf
covered the American cavalrymen rid- I and heavy artillery anct two of en- I ?nen ol
i I government : emDloves from manv de- I sian and British- war offices record
m'l VcH-r -Ua-ri,.. U.j K. tK. i j .1 v " i partments and youngsters lust out of I further victories ror tneir iorces re
"'--' - J "ii i -u 'j i j'nni au&iuuhv.c;u Mic new l I, , ... : . . . . . . . .
manaer, immediately sent a courier, I regiments composing the first annual I "ipn Bcnou'- inwe was -mtie pomp i nuecuveiy 6"''' " u
as&ing lor a Dariev. linfler a. . flsf nri Inrrtmsnt nf hmuma will Tio -roola auum mo uui mo men iruug- ucimaiio,
truce, with the American commander I on that date, rivlns- Genml Tr,,ntnr, I ei along cheerfully, burdened with
i!
Wilson stood on the sidewalk in front l AuHtrian PsiOn In the Poslna val-i
nf tha Whita Rnnu taiisv ti rovicnr I lev southwest of Asiero, further pro-
tne 2,000 members of the District of I green, oy mo uauan nur-.u ui irea
Columbia National Guard ' a , tha I zela- valley -and the- stopping of -Aus-
passed up Pennsylvania avenue on i trian surprise attacks, southwest ; of
their way to the mobilization camp at I Asiago.
Fort Myer, Va. Among them were! . In, the fighting in Asiatic Turkey
all walks of life, including and in German Jast Arnca tne kus-
Hie parley was-arranged and. as . the 1 twelve new regimental units.
uexican leader and two aides started! - - . -
forward the Americans suddenly de- J PERSHING'rE-DISPOSING
vjevi iui a. Bcau-circuuu-., SKimusn i
li
HIS ENTIRE FORCE
Troops Being Concentrated at Nam!-
-. ; qui pa, 200 Miles From Border.
General Gornex Signalled Machine Gun
General Gomez, apparently believ
ing he was about to be attacked.
raised his arm and signalled a machine
gun m th erear to- onen-rfir ; on . th
Americans. The machine gun swept I Pershing, the American expeditionary
the cavalry ranks, causing heaw I commander. Is re-disposing his entire
rorce as a result or toaay s ciasn w.m
Carranza troops at Carrizal. accord'
i blanket roll and equipment.
aar.. Wilsons appearance, .accom
panied by Secretary Baker, was greet
ed witn cneers irom the-crowds gath
ered - along the avenue. . A moment
: later the troops ame in sight, march
ing m columns or tours. The presi
dent's eyes followed particularly the
i men in citizen's clothing, but carry-
GREECE SENDS VIGOROUS
PROTEST TO ENTENTE POWERS
Against Interference With Her Mari
time Trade.
Washington, June 21. An Identic
Columbus, N. M, June ai.-General ef ilH.?. who flSL VtiJSZ
losses.
American Troops Dashed Forward.
immediately, however, a detach
ment of American trooners KlathvT
lorwaro, under heavy fire, to the "cen
ter of the field, where General Gomez
and his staff were sitting . on . ..their
ing to reports fro the field today,
Heavy forces, ready for " immediate
action, are being concentrated at
Namiquipa, 200 miles south . of the
border, and at Colonia Dublan, 120
miles south. Uespatces also said
appeared at intervals among the unl-
tormed guardsmen. They were
cruits who rushed to offer themselves
since the call for the national guard
j went out.
quipa. :
? a.-I BU Sn?UIJer one that American scouting patrols have
Feade; ntT" k " Penetrated the Santa-. Clara canyon.
mainrior- nf hi V. " " aDout as miles directly east or JSiaml
- wuv I OU.a L V E3'
caped to their own lines." .
The two r Americana said tha thAir
information was that :- the American
dead numbered 17 and that the Mexl
cans had taken 40 prisoners.
Neither Maxey nor Hubble was able
to ; learn whether the Mexicans had
retreated, it -being pointed out that all
of the Mexicans with- whom thAv
5,200 SOLDIERS ENCAMPED
AT FRAM INGHAM, MASS.
Ready to Move to the Mexican Border
on Short Notice. -
terference. by the entente allies with
the maritime trade of Greece has been
presented by the Greek minister to
the state "department .and the diplO'
matic representatives here of the Lat
in-American governments. It asserts
that "traditional principles" have been
violated an dthat Greece aas been un
able to obtain any official explanation
in response to inquiries.
NEW LORD KITCHENER
COMING FROM AFRICA.
TROOPS AT EL PASO - "
' READY FOR ACTION
No Movement Pending Orders from
... ' General Funston. .
Framingham, Mass.." June 21.- -Mas
sachusetts citizen soldiers to the num
ber of 5,200 were on the state camp I Has Been Serving in Campaign There
rour reEimL'nia or in i anLrv arnvea t ; . . -
during the day by special trains and . CIl.- .rS
ro haMariai of fiolrl rtill pa-ma I x-l,-Vllcntri, . ciuci "x
the. late secretary or war, who was
' m ti sn y n,H y
tallron Ooi.. i .v 1 -ci u, imm, June ol. general
v uuumsjii.y 1CJ.L LliC 11C1U ITflTfirP I n.. . T-11 f t I jn . ...
th aooaant i.j v.M.. . ', ...i or,-wno, wnen nrsi in-
fiTt iSnlVin ' """fKwu. i formea of the fight by Mexican Con
.ni"..?.r!?aLtlons apparently Bul oarcia, said that. no. military ac
u"ucf tor tne peaceiui evac- tion wouM be taien in El Paso
, """" " V" . Dcverai . troops orders were awaited ;from - General
tarda r2S? JfiVS? the raUl,ad Funston. . In the meantime, he said,
yards ready fo immediate use. - I v.i j '
in S,! QIvMei. ?, nsul in stration from the other side of the that 7.3O0 militiamen win , be under
lowing the first reports of the en-1 General BbII aaifl than. : wan nr. I About the time that the organiza
gagement and remained with General 1 Question but that a fitrht liarl taken I tions reaxtied here a drizzling rain be.
ii JE5 the night. He kept place, but-was inclined to disbelieve Ban. Weary after a day of marching
in touch wrtti General Bell on the th renort that anv imariran. v,ari and excitement... the trops spent the
been taken prisoner.
three batteries of field artillery came
over the highways. No accident mar
red the transfer of the troops.
Because of shortage of mounts the
remainder of the state's quota ordered
to mobilize will not arrive until to-'
morrow. Several batteries of field ar
tillery, a squadron of cavalry anci . a
signal corps are the units yet to come. !
By nightfall tomorrow If is expected
Erection of a $1,000,000 grain ele
vator at Norfolk, is being planned by
the Norfolk & Western. Railroad. .
Terriffic rains have flosded many
mines in the Joplin; Mo, zinc district.
forcing many to suspend operations.
Valentine Hood, a' pugilist, died at
the National Sporting Club in -London
after being knocked out during a bout.
Cardinal Farley reviewed fJie 9th
Regiment, N. G, N.; Tv on their way
to camp at Peekskill, N. T, yesterday.
Ocean : freight rates have declined
front 20 to 25 per cent, during the past
few months, and they are expected to
go lower.
New orders by King Constantlne
require ' the- demobilization of. 100,000
troops and grant full furlough to 60,
000 men. .- - v , '
Governor Fielder designated Jrig
Gen. Edwin ' W. Hlne of Newark to
command New Jersey's brigade of the
National Guard.
Gold to the amount of $3,500,000 was
received from Canada and deopsited
at the New York Assay office by
P. Morgan & Co. -
United States Senator. James W.
Wadsworth, Jr, resigned from Troop
M- 1st Cavalry, N. Y, N. G, of which
he was lieutenant. -
Vance McCormick. new chairman of
the Democratic National Committee,
resigned as a director of the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.
Pennsylvania Railroad office em
ployes at Wilmington, Del, have prac
tically unanimously offered to run
trains in the event of a strike.
Experiments to determine the avail
ability of hydro-aeroplanes for scout
duty at sea will be undertaken during
summer manoevres of the Atlantis
fleet. "
American side ty telephone, however.
.Neither the consul nor -the Mexican
military authorities would discuss re- i
pons or tne proposed . evacuation -
a large numoer or the citizens of
the town were busy - loading their
household goods on vans and other
vemcies, ostensioiy to transport them
to the south. - . . . . .v
Numbers of TJersons- gathered about
the plaza immediately Khen news of
the : battle became public, but there
were no demonstrations. Heavy pa
trols were thrown into the streets'
with instructions to put down any
uiworuers. . .....
Mexicans Claiming Victory.
At General Gomez's headquarters -a'
victory - for Mexico . was claimed.
ine scene in - - rne iront room
of the corn-man dacia,. where tha'
younger officers were gathered, was"
nonaay-iine. evera.i or them, speak
ing oi tne name, eaia;
".We won!" , ,
SCORES OF REGIMENTS- .
" ARE NOW UNDER CANVAS
Marching Orders Will Come Before
the Week is Out. i
; wasnmgton, june:i. At the war
department telegrams came during the
day. from many states, reporting the
progress of the mobilization. . Scores
of regiments are under canvas to
night. As yet no -marching orders for
the border have been given, .but they
will go before tne weeK is out.
"It is quite- certain," .Secretary
linker said, . that some of the regi
ments will go to the border si:!-:.
night quietly , in their tents.
PERSHING HAS NOT
REPORTED TO FUNSTON
Latter '.- Not Surprised That News
Came From Mexican Sources. .
San Antonio, Texas. June 21.- Gen
eral Funston at 8 p.- m. had received
no report from General Pershing of
an encounter at carrizal, but he
showed no disposition to discredit the
report from El Paso, explaining that
a suhMiommander would have report-
H. SNOWDEN MARSHALL MAY
RESIST SERVICE OF WARRANT.
House Leaders Believe a -Long Contest
in the Courts May Result r..
Colonel H.' E. C. Kitchener, is reported
on his way home from Southwest Af
rica, where he has. been serving in the
campaign against te Germans. -
Although 69 years old, the new earl,
who was born October 5, 1846,. placed
himself at the -disposal of the govern
ment at the outbreak of the war, and
began active duty at once. He served
in Burma in 1891, being mentioned in
despatches, and in the Manipur expe
dition In the same year, being again
mentioned in despatches., "
He married In 1877 the only daugh
ter of the - late Lieut. CoL Franklin
Lushington. A son, Commander H. E.
F. C. Kitchener, R. N, served in Chi
na in 19 00 and is serving In the pres
ent war. There is also a daughter. .
IurIigs
iUU
HI III t"
UUHIU
His GoHoga Day
OUCHES ON POLITICS
Providence. R. I, June 21. Charles
iiugnes. republican -nreaM .n Hoi
nominee, told the graduatinc ri.
ad alumni of Brown university that
the American spirit was not to be fed
in the class room by such nice balanc
ing that conviction waa notorious by
i cucenve, dui was to oe expressed
'by men who have thoueht it oil nrn
and finally believe in something."
Hughes Realizes Responsibilities.
-'"And In ' that spirit
lies our manhood," he continued.
I his is not a nolitlcil ivmoinn h
it is only fair that I say this informal
word to you; I had never expected td
do in mis position. I dreaded the re-
sponsibilities, for I know full well the
problems that are tiefore us. I know
full well the problems that will con
front us in America after this war
snail end. I know all the construc
tive power we possess must be drawn
pic meet them ana I am here nrith
such powers as I possess, to be placed.
ii iney are aesired, at the disposal of
our country.".
Americans Not Losing Their Manhood
Before making his address the nom
inee had listened 'to a speech on "The
Spirit of America," by Secretary of
the Interior Lane. Mr. Lane said
that "sad lugubrious oeclarations in
New England newspapers that Amer
icans were losing their national sDirit
and becoming soft, self-satisfied ahd-
weeklings. had pained him: that the
American spirit of achievement was
as strong today as everjind that there
nad oeen no weakening in national
spirit or lowering of national ideal
since the birth, of the republic. The
nominee took tip the train of though.
Tells of His College Days.
"I am here." he said, "as a member
of the class of '81 a class once call
ed the smallest and sorriest in coK
lege. -We did not have in those days
the things you have now. - We did not
have a swimming pool, a gymnasium.
magnincent dormitories. l don't be
lieve we had ".whole pane of glass in
most of our dormitory windows. Whif,"
talk, about the American spirit that's
what kept us warm. That's what
Kept us alive. That's the reason we
are here. .- ' -
.Thinking of, Men, Not Buildings.,
"When T come - back to Brown. ' I
am not thinking of buildings as my
shrine. - I am thinking of men, col
lege men. warm blooded, true-hearted
American men, having freedom of
speech and freedom of discussion.
Lmen having the capacity of democra
cy to deal with .problems which our
democracy is now facing and must
settle." " . -
Speech Devoted to Traditions. '
Mr. Hughes' address, intended foi
the men of Brown University, was de
voted almost wholly to Brown tradi
tions and to recalling incidents of 3F
years ,ago when he attended the uni
versity. -
- T merely want to say this Informal
word to you," he said, "that as an old
graduate, for I am here only la that
character, I Wanted a draught from
the old spring before I plunged Into
the fiighL"
$1,700,000 IN GIFTS TO
YALE DURING PAST YEAR
Corporation Votes to Admit Women t
" . the School of Medicine.
Thomas Kelly, millionaire contractor
accused of defrauding Manitoba Pro
vince in the erection of Parliament
buildings at Winnipeg. was placed on
trial there.
Washington, June 2ll Service of a
warrant on District Attorney H. Snow
den Marshall of New York citing him
to appear before the house to be sen
tenced for contempt, wmcn is expected
to precipitate ;a figtit in tlhe federal
ed the incident tn General Parahin 1 courts, was delayed today. The war
. , .... ... - ' r-I . : l z -I ,1
who in turn wouia nave lorwarded 1 wl" uo 13i,u':u "J
tomorrow ana oespaicnea ixntiieaia.ee
ly. Failure ito determine its exact
form prevented its issue today. News
trom Mew YorK tnat tne aistnct at-
the , report to headquarters in code.
He expressed no surprise that the
news should come first from Mexican
sources.
A MEW YORK LAWYER :
KILLED IN AUTO ACCIDENT.
Machine Skidded and Turned Turtle
on the Southington-Plainvills Road.
" Southington Conn, June 21. -R. B.
Moffat, a New York lawyer, with of
fices at 61 Broadway, was instautJy
killed this afternoon when his auto
mobile skidded and turned turtle on
the Southington-Plainville road near
here. He was pinned -under the car
and crushed. His wife and daughter.
TROOPS SENT TO NOGALES
- ON SPECIAL TRAIN
Soldiers .Go . in Response to an Ap
peal From Citizens.
Douglas, ; Ariz, June 21. -One bat
talion or the Arizona militia and a
battalion of the ' Fourteenth United
States Infantry were sent to Nogales.
Ariz., tonight on a special tram. The
soldiers were sent in response to an
appeal from citizens at Nogales.
rrom .New . wt Miss Elizabeth, were tossed into the
torney woma rat roadway, but they escaped with minor
S" ZZZZZk'ZZA Juries. The party was on its way
to iNew Hampshire.
was not unexpected, and house lead
ers believe a long contest in the courts
will come before sentence is passei
AIsop to Support Hughes.
Avon, Conn, June 1. Ex-Senator
Joseph W. Aisop has resigned as state
chairman of the progressive tparty and
will support Charles E. Jrluglies for the i inclined to believe that it could oe
presidency. , readily overcome.
OFFICIALS' HAVE LITTLE
GROUND FOR HOPEFUL VIEW
Declare Carranza's Attitude -Has Been
One of Growing Hostility.
Washington, June 21. A study of
all General Carranza's communications
and actions during ' the -last few
months, however, has given little
ground, officials feel, for - a1 hopeful
view. His attitude has been one of
jrowms; hostility and onreials are "not
Besides his wife and- dangtrter, ' he
is survived by two sons, one a student
at - Harvard and the other ax Groton
school. .
FIVE WORKMEN KILLED IN -
CANADIAN EXPLOSIVES PLANT
Twenty Seriously 'Injured Explosion
I Followed Firs.
,; Parry Sound, Ont, June 2-1. At
least five - workmen were killed and
twenty seriously injured here today
In an explosion followed by fire in the
plant of the Canadian Explosive Ltd.
About "0 men were at work in the
building at the time.
'Officials of the du Pont -Powder Co,
and the Midvale Steel Co, declare
their companies able and ready to un
dertake all orders of the United States
Government. -. , .
Controller of the Currency Williams
announced that he had authorized one
of the largest national banks on the
Mexican border to remove Its gold re
serve to an Inland city - as a safety
measure. -
SUNDAY SCHOOLS IN MEXICO
HAVE BEEN DISCONTINUED.
Natives Displayed Hostile Attitude to
"Interdenominational Schools. .
Findlay. O, June 21. All interde
nominational Sunday schools in Mex
ico have been discontinued, according
to Marion Lawrence, secretary of the
international tsunday tscncoi associa
tion, who Is here attending the Ohio
Sunday school convention.
The national secretary for Mexico
has been obliged to withdraw, from the
country, owing to the hostile attitude
of the Mexican people, Mr. Lawrence
said. 'The cessation of" interdenorni
national Sunday school activities in
Mexico will be only for, ttie period '.of
actual hostiliteis, if such there should
develop to be. eaid Air. Lawrence.
New Haven, Conn, June 21. Totai
gifts to Yale during the past year will
increaee the funds of (lie university bj
over $1,700,000, it was announced ai
the commencement zneetm gef the Talc
corporation today. This include! .
alumni fund gifts to principal an
other gifts of lesser amounts. Th
largest fund for general purposes wa .
the Brayton Ives estate . bequest oi
$325,000.
Contributions received for princlpa
of the alumni fund amounted to ovei
$26,000 and over $46,000 was receive
for income. Counting pledges not yel
paid, the total of the fund is $144,.
6t68. The class of 1S76 gave $10,000;
making the aggregate gifts since grad.
uation .6,t)U0. The class oi isst gavi
$9,850, making the aggregate total o!
the class anniversary fund $50,000.
Otto T. Bannard, '76, of New Yorl
city, was re-elected alumni fellow for
a term of six years. '
It was voted that a limited numbei
of graduates of approved women't
colleges be hereafter admitted to thi
school of medicine.
A university -board of health wai -
authorized to have charge of the phy
sical and medical examination or al ,
students In the university. ,
Construction work of the new Al
bert A. Sprague -Memorial hall for thi ,
school of music and of the new armor;
for the Yale batteries will be begui
during the summer. . -
PLANS FOK WEDDING OF
MRS. JOHN JACOB ASTOI
GOVERNOR OFOHIO'WASj
, ISSUED CALL FOR VOLUNTEERS
'Don't B a Slacker, Your 6tate and
Your Country -Need You."
' i
Columbus. O, June 21, Gov. Frnk
B. Willias and Ada t. Gen. Hough to
day issued a call for volunteers for
the Ohio National guard. Enlistments
have taken a slump, it was stated.
"Don't be a slacker, your stat eand
your country need you" is the elogan
to be sounded over the state tturoug-h
chambers of commerce and civic and
military organizations.
No Attendants, Decorations or Musii
Few Intimate Friends to Attend.- -
Bar Haroor, "Maine, June 21. Plant
for the wedding of Mrc. John Jaool
Astor and William K. Dick of . Nel
York at Mrs. As tor's summer rest
dence are described as very simple
There will be no attendants, decora
tions or music and only immedlat
relatives and a few Intimate friend
will be present. The ceremony wil
bo performed by Rev. A. C. Lamed
pastor of St. - Saviour's Eplscopa
church. After, a short wedding tri)
Mr. . and Mrs. Dick will return -b
Kspend the summer here. :
Movements of Steamships.
Kirkwall, June IS. 'Arrived, steam
er Hellig Olav, New York for Chris
tiansand. ....
Cadiz, June 19. Arrived, steam a
Montevideo, New York.
Genoa, June , 9. Arrived, steams
Re-gina dl'taJia, New York. t ,
Liverpool, June 21. Arrived, steam
er-6a3Donia, New York. ' ...
