THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow; continued
cool.
Highest temperature yesterday, 64; lowest, 56.
Detailed weather, wall unit inm-liic n ports on wnv I.'.
west
tm.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 296.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, JUNE 22, 1910. Copyitoht, 1M8, by the Suit l'rinttng and VuhUshtng AtioclaUon.
PRICE TWO CCSNTS.
40 U. S. TROOPERS REPORTED KILLED BY MEXICANS;
TRAPPED BY WHITE FLAG, MACHINE GUNS RAKE THEM;
CARRANZA CHIEF KILLED 1 7 AMERICANS CAPTURED
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
i ... f- . .jp j 3 ? ? $ X,
pirluhl hy I iiUi-m-iiml X CntWuu'i.t
QKN I'KKSHlXti and his stuff at headquarters aid to Gen. Pershing; Gun. Periling, Lieut. G
"somewhere in Mexico." Left to right, Col. S. Patton. aid; Major J. L. Hincs. officii,! cc
L. G. Berry. Fourth Field Artillery:
Cabell, chief of staff; Lieut. M. C.
CAPITAL FEARS
WARIS CERTAIN
WITH MEXICO
.att.' I
Gen. Fiuistou Seinl
IIcjmuI Wilson Noti
fied of Clash.
Gl AI1 TO HI-: SENT
T ONCK TO 1JOKDKK
Ccn. Scott Intimates
That War la Imminent
i'I.I, I '.i., .lime 21.- Celt.
I. Seoti, Chief of Start uf the
States army, received the
' il' dear, e of military science
e llfty-foiirth annuil com-
l.li II' of tile PellllS) ll alliu
'. Colic-,, to-day. Kxplalu-
i
' - - inability to be present In
tu accept the linlior, which
i- il conferred only once before
' country, and then upon
.M i ir.iii-n I .i'i i l)H I'll Wiiod when he
u i fi.,f of Staff, Hen. Scott sent
- message to Col, Charles K
H (niiuniind.int :
Thi -.dilation Is such that the
.-' tetnty does nut wish me. to leave
i' i Any moment may reiiulre
m.. presence here to Initiate a war
Ui.ns' M"Ico. If a telegram should
nme in viyliiK Con. Pershing hud
."in attacked as threatened."
WiMiix-fjTo.s-, dune 21.- The report
fr ni n Paso that a force of t'nlted
Sta;t cavalry and Carrunzlstiis had
c'ashcil at Carrizal, ninety miles south
of Ij-ire with a loss of forty Amerl-
aris l,., led mid seventeen captured
"law il tlie most serious apprehensions
In novernnient clri les. i
The Pi-nient was no.llled of the
1'iesident was notllled of the
t'eip of unottlcliil reports of the tight
UtvMen tK. Amerlcnn and Carrnnza
forces and sent for a copy of the extra
Pp'rs the newsboys were calling on
the stteet.s In front of the White
Hon,!..
set ji ,r James, who was at (he
'hiie House ottlres wlien word was '
i'te,i,.ij t,a( ii jeport was i inning
1" lr 'in fjen. Funston. said: ,
It n..w looks as If t,-.iiiblu weie at
hsr.n ,
A Punish nlllcial.s lu ie ilecl.ue they 1
i nclved nnihinc n-cently to In-!
l:cate taut miv American force was 1
in i'ip vicinity of Carrlzil It was
T.fl.u,L , ., . . , '
'"" I'ersiiiiig nan sent
" "'onnnitrtng ,,:irt
ii that 'dliei'tliin, j
Just a - lie ias- been -endini?
scouts i
et towaid the muunlaln passes
tren Sunoni and Chlhuiiliiiii,
be-
Wiir Seems Mire,
ml 'he report piove true oiciil
".love nothing iniilil then tire.
Si
i.K e
Vm '. opening of genei.,1 hostilities
ttluin, t),e two cnuntties
"rltish and Kieruh reptesenlatives
'' Mex i) eity n direct reports lo the
Hate Department Indicate they- inn
J'flnjilriK the strongest kind of pressuro
i'i hear on Carranza to provent him
"urn inking steps that would preclpl-
late
ii nrcuit,
h information reuched the Vt
Col. He K. C.
Major J. B. Clayton and Capt. M. B. Burt.
Schellenlierger,
, partnicnt from sources that com
, ma tided attention, although It was de
i cli.it il that felted Stales .Special Agent
1 Itmluers hail not rej rted on this.
Almost simultaneously with the re
ceipt of this news the State Depart
ment was advised by (lodgers that the
, Amerlum reply rejecting Carrunza's
demand for u withdrawal of the
American force had been received
! there and was being considered at a
peelal meeting of the Mexican Cabi
net
otllcta.s of th" .Mexican division of
tli. Plate Department hurtled to the
'Department when extras appeared on
'the street here oarr)ing the reports
I fiotn V. Paso concerning the light at
Carrlz.il, bat found no confirmation
I flthnr fiom .Mexico city or any of the
' Department's sources of Information
alum; the bordtr.
! Itepnrt Mllltln Ordered In Ihirdrr.
It was rumen d to-night lh.it (!en.
F'...le ck l-'unsion's request fur the lin
ii en, ate di-p.itri to the .Mexican border
of .i contingent of the National Guards
ne mill men answered by the Issuance
.if ..riL-rs. from the War Department to
tli t roups of California. Mission and
Kan is to procicd at once to concentra
' in po tits nil the lin-.dcr designated b)
linn
Secretary Maker declined to admit tint
' lieu. Punstoti had aked for militia im
1 mediately or that order- had been
' Miit. but It was learned tha' die
' troops bad I n diieoted to move and
th.it plans fur their transportation and
conieiitratlim bail been made The''
troop", n as said, were ordered Mr-it
because of their readiness, eoupled with
the fact that they were neater th border
than the ttoopn of New York. 1'ennsyl
and '
vania, Ohio, Wisconsin, Illinois
Massn husetis Tlie reports to the War
Depirtmeiil showed that the Callfornli.
Missouri and K,itisas troops were al
lead molillbeed and had been ellllenllv
etilpied
AccMdlng to present plans of the
C.l lll l-.ll Stuff. If hntilltiH-begin.
(Im. Kunston, as soon as he Is re
eiiforeed by sulllelent of the National
fluard to guard the border, will throw
his entire force of regulars acrosr, the
border fit the iiurpose 0f occupyjig
i. zone 1011 miles wide south of the
biiiindajy from the cast to the
west I
ciust of .Mexico. The pin pose of tills
would be to safegimld the border Itself
fiom any counter attacks.
Work of mobilizing the National '
itJtiaid Is proceeding rapidly, but o.
eialH of the War Department on the
''i sis of iesirts received to-day fiom.
(In- various States eximr-sed tip' view I
" m '".. """"
o. (,-nutzatious would lie in shape to be
mustered In for four or live days at the I
eniilest. I
To-night, however, a was indicated
that If the Carrizal teport Is verlllid
the Department might not wait to
, muster m the mllltln In their home
1 cunps, but rush them to the border.
(be
Win Out i,r Titimle.
It was learned to-night that
Kliropeull diplomats lit Mexico iiv are .
culling to Ciiriiin.a's attention the
fact that wlille the American replv
i-efusiH lo entertain at this time a de
mand for a wltlultiiwal of the troops,
ii way out of the impasse might lie
found by u proposal from Catranza to
"Iscuss the iitiesou of a withdrawal at
l a
later date
i lltt lll kt illurt lllilitl I 1 I In tint. !
r,v . ( mm nt
n,,1( tio possibility of
having
the
up- '
matter disposed of through the
poliitmi-nt of an Intern, ill. ,n,il loinmls.
Hion uiwier me icrins or tne trealv or
The I louse suspended nil other busl
ncss to-day for an Immediate consid
eration of the army appropriation bill
under which thf regular army will re
lelve the money necessary for Its ex
pansion to 17!i,noil, and tho War Do.
partment, anticipating the early pas
sage of thn hill, Issued orders for the
Immediate organization of seven pew
regiments of Infantry, two of cavalry,
threo of field artillery and three of en
gineers, or u total of 16,000, of whlrh
lo.noo wll ho placed at tho tmmedluto
dlHposul of Gen. Funnton.
Secretary linker admitted thin after
noon that he nan under verloua could-
corfro
censor;
(ration a proposal to graduate the new
first class at West Point next month. '
or a year ahead of time.
In lepnrls from Mexico city Spcvlal
Agent Itodgers Informed the State De
partment that he had been given as
surances that In the event of hostilities
he would be clveli a safe conduct out
of the country. Mr, Itodgers stated
that the sjieclut train to carry Amer
icans from the capital to Vera Cruz
would leave Mexico city to-morrow.
Thirty refugees left the city yester
day. Mr. Ilodgrt stated that the
Carrnnza authorities wete giving him
every assistance In nrr.mglng for the
tram nud had promised to give the
Americans protection en route to the
coast.
The i .t it-elf, he said, was fairly
quiet Cairanza using oxtraoidlnary
measures to maintain order and pre
ent attacks on Americans.
Hetween III") and 101 Americans are
reported to have left Sonnra In the
lust few day and leached the Atneri
lan side In safety
MEXICO ON DEFENSIVE.
I.t-untlmi In Purl lllmiiea I
lllamea
t'rlsl".
I'reti4.it
Pauls. June 21 Mexican legations In
the various liro,'iean capitals are issu
ing long statenif tits for publication, set
ting forth what .s e.illi .1 Mexico's case"
In the control-. r.y with Ameilca. One
statement iippciied 111 the Madrid news.
piiirs Inst Monday and to-d.iy the
1'reneli press published ne Issiieil Jiy the
iatlon In Paris, asserting that charges
of Herman Intrigue In Mixlen and tlm
theorv tiiat war betweiii America anil
Mexico was Inevitable originated In til"
t'nlted States.
The statement
warranted" the
ants war with
i haracterUi s as "tin
theory that Mexico
the l'liited States. II
charges that
violation of Mexican
soverelgnt.i ," through the sending of an
vpeilltloiiai v corps. Interrupted the In
terchange of diplomatic communications
between the two eminent" regarding
permission for Ainerl-an troops to pur
sue Mexican bandits across the bonier
The statement sa.vs, ill p. lit:
"We are authorized to state that it
Is not Mexico which attacks In order- i
1 1 IL.F 11 ' . I I'lllMI If Ml, -..l' ..Ill' I II ..II
fr, ern, ..oivanciin.' south, east or.
west, the attitude of the Mexican fJov-
eeintnent Is purely defensive. Tills Is
established from documents In tills lesa- i
Hon, which will be published at an,
oppurtune time "
FORD EMPLOYEES TO LOSE JOBS.
Will I'orefell I'lliees If l'he till lllll '
Willi Vllllllll.
I Di.ri'.oiT. .lime 21.-- Ileni) I'm d, !
I p.ieillst, aiinoiinieil to-day tint any em- .
1 plo)ecs of the l-'onl Motor Company who
are iiiemlieis or the .Michigan National
Cu iril not onlv w HI not receive pay wlille
absent but will forfeit tli.lr Jobs. .Many
! i.. , i... ... 1. i t... ... ....Uu, .....
emits lii tlie guaid also will relluipiisli
(their places, II was snd At tile unices
of Mr. Kord liiloriiiatlon as to how many
' militiamen were included III his 20, null
elliplo)ees here was refused
VI'.. ....mill In, MOl'rv to see .nil of out'
i M leslgn lo enlist In the guard," on. -
, of Mr. Kurd's assistants said, "but both
'leciulls and Stale militiamen will be
I Heated allke--as IhoiiKh they null the
Plant to engage In oilier lines of busl-
ness "
. - .
EDWARD MORGAN DEAD.
llelmoiil'a llrolher-ln-l.ilT
.... ...... i
AnmiM
NuwI'oiit Nkws, Va , Juno 21 IM-,
ward Morgan, a letlred broker of New-1
Vork city and brother-in-law of Augusi '
lielmoiit, died frolil heart disease while j
tlslilng alone In a sailboat In Hamilton i
Itonds to-day. petsous at suinnier
homes along the bench olieerved the boat
drifting nhoiil with Us lone oceiiiant
apparently In a reclining position. His
failure to move after an hour or more
aroused suspicion and a boat put OIT to
Investigate. Physicians said Mr. Mor
gan had been dead two hours when
found.
Mr, Morgan, an ardent sportsman,
had been spending some time here for
his health. The body will be taken to
Omit Neck, I.. I for cremation ami
bulla). .Mr. llelinotit Is silt vl veil by hl
wife, formerly Mlaa Kallh W, Walooll,
und ona aon.
A TAP showing the location of Carrizal, where the tight occurred;
Villa Ahumada, the headquarters of the Carranza army in Chi
huahua and where the American prisoners were taken; the American
line from the border to Colonta Dulilan and Xamiquipa, Pershing's
headquarters, and the roads from Guzman to Carrizal, along which the
American cavalry were scouting.
SEES GERMAN GOLD
BEHIND CARRANZA
I. omldii Ik'licvt's Washington
llns Proof of Vn-t Con
sjiirac.v. RINTKI.KN THE N.oTTEH
ri"it l illtlr IrHHltc), tu Till. SI
l.o.M,ON, dune 21 It s leported llel"
lint I'n'sldont Wilson has received a
vast amount of Information showing the
iiitlvltles of Kranx Mm Itlntelen and
other (.ermaii agents In promoting
trouble between the l'liited Stati s and
Mexico. The full information, showing
tile development of tlie whole tierlll.lll
conspiracy In Mexico. Is said to be In
the hands of the Cabinet In Washington
Von Itlntelen, now In Jail here f icing
pris iedlrgs for extradition to the Cnlted
Slates. Is renrted to bale admitted i
I'i uie l.nglisn llilllioriues mat lie icni
a lentral oigatiizatlon In the l'liited e
Slates to carry on the work. It also is
said that payments made by him with
the aim of fomenting trouble In Mexico
June been check. d up and that the entire
Mexican propaganda Involved the pay
ment of more than J.'O.OOO.fwO Vim
Itlntelen hlm.-ef Is said to tiaie made
payments through the Traiis-Ailatiti.'
Trust Company In New York to banks
along the Mexican border, Including HI
I'aso, llrowiisvllle, Han Antonio, Doug
las and other places with the hbi of
llelo.ng Mey-an 1 evolutionists
He Ls said to have deposited money
ill a branch of the Deutsche ltank In
ll.uan.'i fur the benefit of Mexican revo.
liitlnnlsts. lie paid out ICOD.OOO to pur-!
chase rlttes and ships for Mexicans. In !
fact, so broad was Von Itlntelen s plot
tli.it lie iilnnneil In nuance elet-l revotli
, ,.,! i xi..vi,.i. ii.. ,. ,i,i
money to live f.ictiotiH within the Mexl-
can borders and money to two groups in
tli.. 1'iuieii htiite.
r.VVkV.V ..V.,M1
' lAJtttA4A Ui.ttKLAtt AUt-Wl.
Purls l'iiper Ser llnnd of Knlxer
In Mexican Trouble,
lmal latlr I)etintch tu Tiik Sis
Paiiis, .lime 21 III view of Fiaiuo'oi
gleiit tln.iuclal and comiiieiclal InterestH i
.a Mexico It Is not suivrlslng to Hud the
Mexican cilsls tho leading subject In the I
il storlais In tile tnornlllir newstr.ine
All the eilitoilal writers aiM-cn tlint ll.-i.
nan Intrigues aie lesponsllile for the
fi ll,
Some f (he writers hanteiiiigly con-
" "a i iesioi-m osun on lecciviiis,-
I the ultimatum fiom Cen. Carranza twoi
, nioiilhs after ho had made the Kaiser,
back down, but one adds the remark'
one
that Mr. Wilson Is n.it the man to be dis
concerted by that, his 1 o.ooii word notel
In i ply being the work of minutes for
him.
Stephen Plnchoii in the I 'it It Jiiiou(
SUV'S
; "W ailtington m past diplomacy Is not
I exempt from lepioadi and the results
hove not been detrimental to aslili.glon
, aU .s; mir liaders ami bom holdeis
l'iw inn. h they lost through W ashing-
' '"" H obstinacy In sustaining the Hi nil
who Is now going to war against those!
to whom he ones his position. Hut It Is
cot a moment for recrimination. Car-
iniiza Is only the Ceriii.ins' agent The
diversion is not skilful. It lesembles
'b It Mi Insiirrecilon."
NEW OFFENSIVE EXPECTED.
Hrlllsh Action Taken to Indlenle
ppronehliiK Move In Prunes-.
I.onpon, June 21. Announcement was
made to-day that after next Monday no
relatlviH of sick or wounded olllcers will
be permitted to visit France unless the
olTlier's condition Is dangerous, ami in
that case special permission must be ob
tained. Tlie necessities of the military
situation are given as the reason for
the new restriction.
, depot In have been current for some
time to the effect that the Allien were
planning simultaneous offensive, The
above despnteh srenii lo Infer that auine
) military action la planned.
',
TREVINO ORDERED
CARRIZAL ATTACK
Notifies lien. 0btoroii Tluit
I'. S. Troops Attnckt'd Town
anil Were liepiilseil.
ISLAM KS THK AM KIM CANS
,. m I ulitr r.'ilcA lo The -i '
Mkxioi Citv. dune 21 Minister of
War Obiigon gave out to-night the
following:
The Ministry under my i barge by
the ritst Chief's ot det s instructed (Jen.
I ,, mi,. It Tri.vliin on .tntie IS that If
c.i-ii. Pershing's forces forming tin
punitive .xpeiiuion which peiuiiaieu
mr national ferritin v ufier the Co
jl(1jM1H
incident moved southw-uid,
istward or westward from where
tine were thev should be attacked. I " '-'
hariy ihi- nrntning an American ' " "h"", " cla!"' thw "" "ing
fo,,... tried to occupy ,he -union of!"1 t,,rr'7:,, ",Mr v,n" Ahuma.ia. t -
Caiilxiil of tlie Mexican Central Hall
way. Cut Tieviiiu in deled It tu le
attacked " The light that resulted Is
described III nlflctal tepoits rendered
to this Ministry by Cell. Tlevlno us
follows
Mi nk :1 I 1 .
'IIkuhji uiTiiii, c'liiiit-Aiirv Cm., im
Ministi:ii
Wvk-Nvm, Cu.s. Ai.vii.o
I uiiicooN :
'Cen I'ranclsio Conz.il'
1-cporte I
In im- last night fiom Ciud.nl .lu.u
. lli.-it American forces wen
il riving .ii
Santo I suiilngo. Therefore. I ord. r d
the) lie attacked to-day, and 1 am It -
found that the light begun at xocloe
this morning in Kl C.iuizal. 1 hav
Just Den Informed that
the American i
tutoes Mere teplllsi'd
"'Cen Pellx Come Ma- -eriouslv
wounded. i Come-; was killed I lie
commanded our forces, We have
others killed and wounded
"'Seven Americans were taken pi is
oiui's and Just now I ricoiwd aiiollie.
message reporting the death of Cen
Con:." I inn giving the necessary
orders.
GKNinui. is Chut .Ihm.xto h.
I"iii:mmi
"'.luiii' 21
Another message ipihlUi followed
this w hich ri-iul
llcinoi iiiTiais. Cimii Aiii i. in Ci:-.-.
Al.v.ino ( iiiu;i;o, - I'rgent:
"I have just been Intoiiiieil tiom tiled on by inai'hlne guns mid tlu-i
Clii.l'i.l .luarez that when the fous-s I ,,,, , l t.tlrt.. A l.)N ,,,
wete reoiganleil it turned out tint!. ,, ,,
seventeen Americans wete ,,,.t.u e,l . """I,l,(''1 (""' ' '"rshlng.
not seven, as said lu the f uoing1
tnes-age. The Americans' Interpreter
was ruptured, lie ronirsscii that the
Amei lean Icaibr was responsible lo-
the conllict. I Imve orilcied that thei
prlsoiieis Is- brought here licspect
fullv. " 'Gunkiui, in Ciiii:.- ,i li, TimviNii " '
The .Irffnii Mlimlint publishes a let-I
tel from the Socialists of Oakland, ,
("ill., censuring the American Invasion
of Mexl demanding tho Immedlato i
departure of tho so-culled punitive ex. 1
I ! 1 1 Ii ill , saying:
"Vol one ilollor loo no., ni'iti f-.n. ,. i
war we . considered hie:!, trensoo
Secret iimchlnntlons of Wall Stteet ill-
reeled by Henri, (His and oilier inifi.
Arter invading .Mexico, they are now
iiiok ii' pi-no on iiiiny oi .iuc4li.ini
workmen to slaughter to protect their !
pioptTtles and Interests. All laborers,
' men and women sympathizing with
1 vvnrklngmen'H cause should net against
i the policy of President Wilson and
those behind him,"
IKK.T IIB.iR HrRIMI WATKH.
(Oc On- i-iM of ill flu tiipprd bolllrs,
.mi.
BRIEF FUNSTON
REPORT FAILS
TO TELL LOSS
(Jon. Hell Confirms Story
That Ir. S. ravalr.vinoii
Wt'iv AiiiImisIkmI.
DDI KDIATK ACTION
PIT OFF AT CAPITAL
, W.isiiimiton, dune 21 --The War
I Di pat tment at II o'clock to-night re
ceived from Gen. Funston a report
from fien. Hell stating that early to
day at Carrizal the Mexican com
mander sent a Captain with dltectlnns
to American troops to turn back.
The Americans refused to obey thi.1
injunction and a light ensued. Several
Mexicans were wounded, Including the
Captain.
The report states further that the
Tenth Cavalry, the troops of which
ngag. d III the light, were decoyed Into
A trap by a tlag of truce raised by the
Mexicans. The latter when tho Amer
ican troops approached opened fire
With machine guns and a number were
k.lled on both sides. How many has
not yet leen definitely ascertained, ac
cording to "!en. Kiinstnn'M report
A traveller returning by train after
the tight, tho report continued, says ho
saw seven dtad Mexicans, Including
one General, put aboard the train,
fien. Funston's report was imme
dlately transmitted to the President at
the White House
It was authoritatively stated that no
action would be taken to-night in the
way of despatching troops to the bor -
der to meet the .niergency that has
iv i .,f ,1... nepor..
i--.diow.ng is th. text f the despatch
from fien. iteii at r.i Paso forwarded
i, r.on. Funston and given out at the i
War Denarltneiit at llr.10 IV M
Mexican Consul Carcia telephoned
mo .t r. i i .... -.,tt....
inT-it u i i tiiii,,r4iii (11)11 4lllllvil(! 1 1 I'll I
m which den. comesc ami other Mexi-1
aiis weie killed Number unknown.
Number or Americans kiii-d or I
wounded unknown. That Co. Come j
sent a Captain with an older to thei
I American commander t back. .ti""-V nJ nnCr .
'the Americai- said h- was going to! 1 ne force which was attacked to-day left tlie main ex
was going to
Villa Aliumad.i, and opened tire on
j the Mexican c.iptaln, wounding him
, ,...,1 Mill,,. ., orlv.nl.i iilin unw Ill,
him That the Americans attacked
, 'en Come, ,ut were driven b.iclt, and
that sevei.il were taken prisoiiem
The
prlsoiieis were sent to 'h-
I huiililia.'
'(iitvla sas tins s telephoned nt
relIHht of Ccn Gonzales-
"'An American who was no u tra.n
to-day passim; Villa Ahumada about
2:30 P. M. states that lie siw several
dead Mexicans put in h.n train and
that among tin in was a dead Mexican
General Tin re were also several
.. n . I . I 1 ( ... 1 ...
" "' K-'inereu iroin
Hie talk of the Mexican that the light
was with Ann rlcan cavalry about nine
vs,.Ml .,,, ,. , An,ri(,11M
, . .
hNrn' 'b-coyed Into a trap by using a
Hag of truce, that they weie. Iheu i
"The report states that
lean troops engaged wen
the
the
Ainer-
Tenth
l 'avail y."
Shortly i.fter the icceipt of Ceil. I
i 'nuston's message senator .si,m.st i
.ii lived nt the War Dep.irimeiu with a i
telegram from acting M;.yor lalward-
of Nogiibs, Ariz, saving that S.iwij
Mexicans with thiriy-six machme gsi
ami well equipped eie in-iiiK a f..w ;
miles beyond the bonier. Th,. message ,
urgently asked immediate aid. There j
I ' ""'' L000 troops at
.1 ...
ui.ii poiiii in
oppose the Mexican forces.
The War Department late in. night
advised (ion, Funston of the nveipt of
the telegram by Senator Ashuisi and
directed tne iicner.ii to taue vvnali ver ,
steps ho deemed necessary In protect
the town and meet any emergency
which may arise. The Department
fiuillini. ,i nt liorlvel firm l.'o n ut , ... ,n 1
.1,1,11. II 1111... .... .. ..WH . HII"1II1
Pln.e the town muler martlui law If
thought beat tu do so.
V
Battle Fougftt at Carrizal, East of American
Base at Casas Grandes Pershing's Cavalry
Leader Refused to Withdraw at Com
mand and Ordered a Charge.
Mexicans Say.
HIDDEN TRENCHES THREW HORSES
AS THE AMERICANS ADVANCED
Wounded U. S. Troopers and 17 Prisoners Are Said to
Have Been Taken to Chihuahua City Mexicans
Relievtnl to Have Heavy Losses in the Conflict.
EL PASO. Tex., June 21. Soldiers of Cnrrunzu made
good to-day their threat that they would shoot if Gen.
Pershing, commander of the American punitive expedition,
moved any of his forces east, south or west.
An American scouting party, believed to be composed
of negro troopers of the Tenth Cavalry, which is commanded
by Col. William C. Brown, was- attacked near Carrizal, 130
miles southwest of Juarez, in the State of Chihuahua, at 10
o'clock this morning.
According to the first reports reaching El I'aso this af
ternoon forty Americans were killed and seventeen wounded.
This has not been confirmed. The only news thus far re
ceived is from Mexican military sources and from passengers
on a train from Chihuahua city that arrived at Juarez late
to-day. v
Gen. Gomez, Carranza Leader, Killed.
Gen. Gomez, leader of the Carranza forces that engaged
the Americans, and a number of his men were killed. The
body of Gomez is being taken to Chihuahua city.
One of the American passengers on the train that
reached Juarez this evening said that he saw wounded and
dead Mexicans at Ahumada station as the train passed through
at 2:80 o'clock this afternoon. He did not see any Americans,
wounded oV otherwise, and believed that the Mexicans had
been badly defeated. This passenger said that the Ameri
cans involved in the battle were all troopers of the Tenth
Cavalry.
According to the best obtainable renorts from MoviV.
1 sources the American column was led into an ambush bv a
! Mexican Hag of truce. As soon as the Americans discovered
jthe treachery of the Mexicans the charge 'was ordered and the
Mexicans opened fire with concealed machine guns. The Mexi-
j L'ans reported that seventeen Americans were captured as tliev
' w tre tiirown 1 rom their horses
American Wounded Held Prisoners.
i , 0t!lul' passengers on the .-anie refugee train said Unit some
! of th Amnrirvm wiittwlnl i.ni Ua1I t.. 41... Al : . t;i
,, "v,t
l Ahumada, which is eighty-three
jthe Mexican Central Railroad.
r t ' !
' (jen' I,"'-'. according to liiloi'iiiation from the front
am' froni division headtiuai'ters at San Antonio, sent mil several
parties of men to test the threat of the Carranza General
Trevino that they would not allow the Americans to move in
i ... , ,.
pedition at the same time as another command which reached
Ou .man
there.
yesterday and failed
Gen. Francisco Gonzales, commander of tlie Juarez, gar
rison, said to-night that there had been a clash at Carrizal.
The number of killed and wounded on either side was not
known to him. He said that Gen. Genevive llivas had von.
firmed the news of the battle in a message sent by courier to
Villa Ahumada and telegraphed to Juarez..
Says U. S. Troops Refused to Withdraw.
Gen. Gonzales's statement follow.-:
"Last night 1 received information that an Amei u-an force
of unknown strength had reached Santo Domingo ranch. I ad
vised Gen. Felix Gomez, stationed at Carrizal, to tell the UniUd
States commander to withdraw his forces. Tin- American com
mander did exactly the opposite, answering that he had to rep, h
Villa Ahuniada.
"Gen. Gomez then sent word again to the Aniei'iian com
mander to withdraw. The American troops tired upon the
Captain who arrived with the message, wounding him and kill
ing a Mexican soldier.
"The American force then advanced and attacked the com.
1 i ,c f. ........ ...i.
wv"' """- ' 'i'm.e.i infill, lie UClllg Killed a.S
well as a number of Mexican soldiers. The American fnrce
withdrew after that.
.y to()k M,vi,n , , r j s,olU- lllll'illg the engagement nicllidlll '
... . .1 1 . . , , , , , UKIUl
tl,' "terireter. all ol whom acknowledged that the blame shm.ld
li placed on the American commander for having ordered
attack. The prisoners were sent to Chihuahua cily with Hie
custoilliirv protection.
- -
..p,, n,voW .i.iiw,,,,,...i
Ill III I fl.lli n I. nil, , iv i
had been taken to Chihuahua
wounded Mexican soldiers had
capital."
Hears Forty Americans Were Killed.
In an earlier statement Gen. Gon.ales said :
"There was an engagement between American and Mex-
III , 1 .
helcal1 tro,)l1's at Cari'l.al
I II. i II. 4 !
We
(that the American casualties
by means of a covered ditch.
l"- ."f.McailS ill - Ilia
miles southeast of Juarez on
to find any Carranza troops
...i i .i i. i .
1 1... 1 1,.. i,...i..
Vlllll llll' llllliv
ol (it'll. Gonu
city for burial
also been sent
and that the
to the Slate
have no detaiK We underhland
were forty. A number o
1
