""e-.- &
7 i' " T ,-$
-- r- 'Hrt-jtr6'
NIGHT
EXTRA
FINANCIAL EDITION
icuentti
VOL. H.-NO. 242
. .. c
llefiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
i
PUITjADlSLPniA, TIIUKSDAY, JUNJI3 22, 191 G.
Cortnianr, 10)0, bt ins 1'cblio Limm CouriNt.
MEXICAN WAR IMPENDS;
J . S. COMMANDER SLAIN
MEMBERS OF 10TH CAVALRY, COLORED SOLDIERS, WHO CLASHED WITH MEXICANS
;&- " ' """ ' """' ' "' 7 , ""? v' "; , ,. , ; - 7- vr vy - . " - v s ; : ' f-0
Copyright, Underwood & Underwood. Tinned by Ceneor.
WAR CERTAIN,
FEAR OF HIGH
. U. S. OFFICIAL
Washington Awaits Full De
tail of Attack on Tenth
Cavalry
MAY CALL VOLUNTEERS
i
WASHINGTON", Juno 22. Announce-
tttnl from Jloxlco City that the Mexican
Government, In the perBon of General Obre-
jon. War Minister, accopted full responsi
bility for the attack upon the 10th Cavalry
jms received Jn official circles today with
f imaxement. It was everywhoro accepted as
ifon-lnr ft showdown bv the Administration.
f " Secretary of War Baiter professed to be,
f without .any official word of thq fighting.
Ht refused fo say wW.it action was planned
t tn view of the Obregon announcement.
If bract er, a declaration of war against Car
lWiau was considered certain should the of-
Ka reports bear out tno information at
treat available?. This Is duo to tho fact
ftSTcarranza has precipitated tho crisis
fatotcd In tlin American noto of Tuesday.
f5iThew'waa no effort to disguise tho serious
ifclinj both In tho administration and lcg-
IiUtlie branches of tho Government. It Is
Jietepted that a call for -olunteors, in auui-
(ttai to the National Guard now being mo-
hteeJ, cannot long be delayed.
V AWAIT INFORMATION.
K "We have fdrmulated no plans and will
BIttt no action In Mexico on the present
information (unliable here. All of the
iiu.cn avauauio to uaie regaruiug vne ciu
jjto it Carrlzal aro from Mexican sources.
e hate asked General Funston to mako
ery effort to get a full and complete le-
pori from General Pershing. Until It comc3
Wean do nothing.
Genetal Funston said that It would he
Mcessary to send tho complete report by
Joarler to the nearest point of communlca-
tta and that "It might notx be received be-
Momorrow," said Secretary Baker,
said that as fast as information was
ed.here it would bo public, "unless
patible with the nubile Interest."
Jt,TW President and Secretary Baiter took
' the question of rushing all of the Nn
gwM Guard to tho border and also debated
"t, the next step would bo. It Is ex.
Pefd that a snrrlnt nrl!nf MAattn ...in
IN called so soon ns complete details of the
wnzai fight aro received from General
jKfihlng.
fcnBJPonT from Mexico city.
SJVTiIW 'Secretary Baker was with tho
ywldent, Postmaster Rnnnsi n,,ri
figS4- n remained 10 minutes, and on
y? not yet know who Was responsible
Mm trouble. If our soldiers were we
ffll oaVo the honesty to say so. If they
St ot-well. that la another matter,
M must be considers! nn n. m... -..,.
-.J!r Uns uU nna complete official re-
Nary of state Lansing sent to the
IIOUSO n. Mnnrt AMt...i m M
S?i fi"8' at Mexlco Clty' the con-
BJ which were not rBvMi;f
,fnt only renort of i.. iii. A ... . .
lEii.j v "" warruai
rttoi ."."- " " "'- exican
puowsr y ral Punston'
m7"e fOllOWlnC VI9I .!! j T .. .
Ha (v.. . iiHeu to 4UexI-
S -rUUl O.lrnln .1 T vi
Sttuh m. 1 T """ 'inero was
flfc-7 ""? ",arn'ns at Carrlzal. near
and Ameri-
12 AMERICANS,-14 MEXICANS
KILLED 1 BATTLE;- OBREGON
ACCEPTS ALL RESPONSIBILITY
?
Clash at Carrizal Laid by Mexican War
Chief to Pershing's Defiance Gen
eral Gomez, Carranza Leader,
Also Dead
i
Funston's Hurry Call for National Guard Results in
Order for Details From Three Western States to
Move Today War Preparations Stir Border.
Juarez May Be Evacuated
EL PASO., Tex., June 22. According to an unconfinnetla'eport
received here this afternoon Brigadier General John J. Pershing,
with 3000 men, has arrived at- a point near Villa Ahumada and has
sent an ultimatum to General Jacinto Trevino, Mexican commander,
threatening to attack the Mexican army concentrated at Villa Ahu
mada unless the(troopers captured in the hattle near there yesterday-
are given up.
This information was contained in a dispatch received by the
Cusi Mining Company from its agent at Cusihuirachi, Chihuahua.
The agent reported he had been unable to obtain confirmation.
Villa Ahumada is the Carranzista base 80 miles south of Juarez.
Trevino is believed to be there.
KAISER STRIVES
T0SAVEK0VEL
AND LEMBERG
Battle in Progress Over 500
Mile Front Between Rus
sians and Teutons
KUROPATKIN ENGAGED
WWd, v.. wnxai, near Villa
- t-, ee uarranzlsta and Ai
UUOD9 In h.kl.L . -
,.. r,wu ueneral Gomez and
ijaa
foBUnued on I'aca M. ri. m..L
m CONGRESS PERMISSION
T( SE GUARD IN MEXICO
fc WHJ Introduce Resolution Given
to Dy uaker
Hm tyUXed ,JU?he h"'T-Secretary
i1iv""Wn for n-,.,,., ' J """""Oi
SS? W fttM
W7ASHTMnn.r - '
of Chair,
ommittee,
S?f,la President wnnu,' ,""??.?'
P ptifiS&
W alSl ,,?riL by RPrsentat(vo Hay
m hoped to ofcin .Uon omoJ-rovy
S WMiS,S?.taia.UD?n'"ous .Gnserft for
r obtain a i.," ? ' objection,
ir.. . " (uto wnicn iuiii t.4 x. -
towaer tomorrowr " ""
EL PASO, June 22 Twelve Americans and 11 Mexicans were
killed in the battle of Carrizal, according to an official statement
issued at the Carranzista consulate here today. It stated that the
commander of the American detachment was among those killed.
Seventeen American soldiers were made prisoners, the state
ment added, while 30 Mexicans were wounded.
A message from Columbus, N. M., says that it is reliably re
ported that Captain Lewis S. Morey was in command of the troops
engaged at Carrizal. Another report says that Major Ehvooil Evans
probably was in command of the detachment. Official report on this
point is lacking.
General Alvaro Obi-cgon, Mexican Wnr Minister, in -an official statement
accepts full responsibility in behalf of the Carranza Government for the attack
yesterday on the American forces at Carrizal.
Tho blame is placed on General Pershing by Obregon for ignoring the
warning issued Sunday by General Trevino that the United States troops must
not move in any direction except toward home, under threat of being attacked.
Tho casualties, as reported officially by the Mexicans were 12 American
dead, including the commander of the detachment, nnd 17 taken prisoners; 14
Mexican dead and 30 wounded. It is unofficially said that the captive Ameri
cans, taken to Chihuahua City, will bo hanged.
Unconfirmed reports "say that the United States troops were led into Car
rizal nnd ambushed, a flag of truce having been sent to tho commander asking
a conference.
General Pershing has rushed reinforcements to the 10th Cavalry and a
battle impends, if it has not occurred already.
Tho border bristles with big guns. War is believed inevitable. General
Dell, at El Paso, is ready to move at once. Juarez probably will be evacuated.
Strong Carranza forces aro massed just to tho south of the town. Heavy Mexican
detachments are gathering all along tho border facing American towns.
General Funston ha3 asked for the immediate dispatch of National Guard
forces. Units from the West will be on the move before nightfall. The first
National Guard called are from Missouri, California and Kansas. Others have
orders to complete mobilization immediately and bo ready for instant call.
ATTACK ON U. S. TROOPS AT CARRIZAL
WAS ORDERED, SAYS GENERAL OBREGON
rnTROGrtAT), June 22. Fighting; be
tween the Russian and German-Austrian
armies Is now In progress over a front of
COO miles.
Tho army rroups of both General Kuro
patlln and General Bruslloft are now en
Rnprcd. Desnlto the tremendous efforts of tho Ger
mans to save tho Austro-Hungarlan army,
tho Husslana continue to make steady prog.
less, but tho Teutonic defence has, been
Greatly stiffened.
JturderouH nrtlllery duels' are In progress
from Smorgonjo northward, while south
ward to (ho Roumanian border tho Infan
try Is cniMgcd at numerous points.
At tho extreme southern end of tho bat-
tie nno the Austro-IIungarlan army In
Bukonlna Is still In wild flight, pursued
by Russian cavalry.
Tho most lolent Infantry fighting Is tak
ing place In Volhynla on tho Styr and
Stochod Ricrs, where the German troops
nre striving desperately to save tho bases
of ICovel and Lemberg.
On tho Ussllan-Vladimlr-Volynskl lino,
the German troops have been heally rein
forced with both men 'and ammunitions In
nn effort to present the Russians from cut
ting through to the Cholm nallway, thus
Continued on True Ftvui, Column Two
"HEP, HEP, HEP,"
CRY AS TROOPS
DRILL FOR WAR
Men, All Eager for Fray,
Assemble at Their
Armories
TEARFUL LEAVE-TAKINGS
MEXICO CITY, June 32. Full respon
sibility for the attack upon .American sol
diers at Carrizal Is assume'd by Minister
of War Obregon in an official statement
issued at the War Department
This says that the Americans were trying
to occupy the railway station at Carrizal.
General Carranza has called a full meet
ing of the jCablnet for this afternoon, when
General Obregon will make a complete r
port on the situation. The statement Issued
by Genral Obregon follows;
'The Ministry under my charge, by the
First Chief's orders, instructed General Ja
cinto H. TreWno on June 18 that if General
Pershing's forces forming the punitive expe
dition which penetrated our national terrl
tory after the Columbus Incident moved
southward, eastward or westward 'rora
where they were they should bo attacked."
iSrly this morning (Wednesday) an
y i
American force tried to occupy the station
of Carrizal on the Mexican Central Rail
way. Oeneral Trevino ordered it to be at
tacked. The fight that resulted Is described
in official reports rendered to the mtnlst
by General Trevino as follows
"'June 21, J916.
" 'Headquarters, Chihuahua City, to Minis
ter of War and Navy, General Alvaro
Obregon
' 'General Francisco Gonzales reported to
me last night from Cludad -Juarex that
American forces were arriving at Santo
Domingo, therefore I ordered they be at
tacked today, and I am informed the fight
began at S o'clock this morning jn Car
rizal I have Just been Informed that the
American forces were repulsed,
'"General FelU Goraex was seriously
CeaaaMj so rate Two. pliaan Oa
"We are prepared to march out of here
for Mt. Gretna this Instant." Quoting
Colonel Hamilton D. Turner, commander of
tho Second Regnlment, the hieonlsm ex
presses conditions prevailing today at the
hcadQuarters of the three regiments In the
First Brigade, National Guard of Penn
sylvania, whose armories are In this city.
In quiet, buslness-liko orderliness the
various unlta of General Price's brigade as
sembled at 8:30 o'clock this morning In their
rebpectlvo headquarters. Only In cases of
serious Illness was exemption from duty
asked, nnd then reluctantly. The spirit of
the guardsmen" had been whetted overnight
by the late developments bejond the Mex'.
lean border, and while they maintained a
military reserve, their demeanor hid an
eagerness to get Into action.
At tho armories the regimental com
manders were early on the scene and held
conferences with their subordinate officers
a few minutes after the hour set for the
assembly. Immediately after these consul
tations the company commanders assembled
their men on the drill floors and read to
them tho articles of war. The rollcalls In
many companies revealed the presence of
every enlisted man, while the few absentees
were accounted for by serious illness or
equally valid excuse.
Preliminary details were told off for -the
duty of loading the company paraphernalia
neded for camp, and this work was virtually
completed by noon.
HIKES TO FAIRMOUNT PARK.
Drills In the armory and hikes to Fair
mount Park served to give the Guardmen
an appetite for mess, which was served in
the armories.
The soldiers this afternoon resumed the,
routine of drills and hikes which will be
maintained until evening. The command-
QUICK NEWS
vi?t
WASHINGT'N. 0 0 0 0 2 0 0
ATHLETICS 1 0 10 10 0
Kiee nntl Heniy; Myeva nml Sehnnu.
PHILLIES istG.. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
BROOKLYN. .. 00032000X 6
6 0
-j
PKICE ONE CENT
CITY DISGRACED
BY RECRUITING,
SAYS GEN. PRICE
At Mayor's Meeting of Rep
resentative Citizens He
Voices Complaint
'WANT MEN, NOT OFFICERS'
McQuillan and Klllefcr; 1'feffcr and Meyers.
PHILS LOPE FIHPT TO nPQnTfT,vT
PT'IU.TES r h o a c
Bancroft, ss 0 0 l A .1
Niehoff, 2b 0 i l 2 0
Stock, 3b 0 0 1 0 0
Cravath, rf 0 o 1 0 o
Whined, if 0 0 l 0 0
Ludcrus, lb o oil 1 o
Paskcit.cf o I -t o 0
Killcfcr.c 0 0 3 2 0
McQuillan, p 0 0 0 3 0
Chalmers, p 0 o 2 1 0
"TonKT YV - ' -
Myers, cf 1 " ?
Dnubcrt lb 1 C XZ
Stengel, rf '1 r o
Wheat. If 0 o r
T.Towrsy, b 1 1 0
Cutshaw, 2b 1 1 . 6
Olson, ss 0 1-1
Meyers, c 0 0 A
Pfcffcr, p 0 1 0
Many Employers Promise Full
Pay to Their Workers
Who Enlisted
Totals 0
21 13 3
Totals., 5 9 27 17
JAMAICA RACING RESULTS
Fivst nice, S-ycar-olds, 5 furlongs Arnold, 115, Kclsay, 0 to n
1 to 4 nnd out, won; Campfhc, 115, J. McTaggnit, 1 to 8 nnd out, sec
ond; Tommy Taggnvt. 115, Tnpliu, 50 to 1, 8 to 1 nnd 8 to 5, third
Time, 1:02. , i
OTTAWA RACING RESULTS
first rnee, purse $500, selling:, 3-year-olds nnd up,, foaled in Cn."
ado, mile Ktivcncouvt, 103, Obert, $5.00, $3.10 and $2.60, won; Con
broom, 117, McAtee, S3.G0 nnd $3 second; Puritan Lass, 101, Pit::.
?3.10, third. Time, 1 :41 4.-5.
MEXICAN KILLS U. S. SOLDIER; WOUNDS FIVE
DOUGLAS, Ari,, June 22, A hnlf-cnste Mexican watclunnn, em
ployed to guard the waterworks at Naco, Ari., opened file ou a Unite
States patiol when they appioached him this inoiuiug and killni
Private Powell, of the Pouiteeujh Infantry, and wouuded five otlici;,
according to a repot t that leached heie today.
FORD WILL HOLD PLACES FOR EMPLOYES WHO GO TO FROI
DETROIT, Mich., June 22 Two hundred employes of tho For '
Motor Company who quit woik to answer Uip call to nrms in V:
Michigan National Guard were assured by officials that theh job
would be open for them when they leturncd f jam service on the Me:: -can
border, it was stated at the fnctoiy today. Officials of the com
pany, however, knew nothing of any plan to continue pay to employe
during their service in tho guard or to piovido for their families
Tord declined to discuss the Mexican situation or to comment Jn an -way
regarding1 the policies of the company townul employes who'll'
members of tho guard.
ALLIED WARSHIPS OFF PIRAEUS! MAY LAND TRQ0P.-J
SALONICA, Juno 22, A squndion of Auglo.Freneli waiship
under oidejs to cruise" off rhaeus, the poit of Athens, Tioops -v
bo lauded theie.
Dtlgndlcr Genornl William G. Price said
today beforo 200 rcprcciitatlvo citizens of
the city that tlio s.-.tit amount of enlist
ments In tho National Guard from this
oily was ilixgraceful.
Following his stirring nppenl for co-operation
of the business men, fully two score
of prominent Phtlndclphlnns, representing
tho financial, Industrial nnd business life
of the city, announced that nil guardsmen
In their employ would receive full pay
u tills fighting for the welfare of the
country.
ThlB was yie spirit which dominated the
meeting of the citizens In the Mayor's re
ception room nt City Hall.
The mcotlng was called by the Mayor for
tho purpose of devising means of caring for
tho families and dependents of the men who
had rallied to tho colors of Uncle Sam, that
they may go to the front free of this great
burden.
There was spirit and grim determination
about tho ontlro proceedings, nnd definite,
practical steps were taken Immediately to
carry out the purpose for which the meet
ing was called.
SIATOR TO NAME COMMITTEE.
A resolution was adopted, which created
a Citizen Soldiers' Committee of 2B, whloh
shall have full power to appeal tothe publlo
for funds for soldiers' dependents and also
the authority for tho distribution of the
contributions. This committee will be ap
pointed by tho Mayor.
Hearty nnd sincere co-oporatlon wa
manifest throughout the meeting After
welcoming those who answered the call.
Mayor Smith reminded nil present of the
duty of those who remain at homeland told
them they should provide waysand means
of earing for tho dependents of those who
answered the call to arms.
Brigadier General Price explained condi
tions In the '1st Brigade.' At' -present.' "he
said, there were nearly sixty-five men t
a company, which figure represents tii
peaco strength. :
"Wo will bo called upon to recruit to tie
wnr strength of 1E0 men to a company," he
said, "and I regret to say that onllstmenU
uro slow. There Is somothlng wrong when
we cannot have more Uian 2500 men willing
Continued on Tate Four, Column Oh
0." G. I. PROPOSES
TO CUT GAS RATE
TO EIGHTY CENTS
Company Would Eeduce
Cost to Consumers
20 -Per Cent. '
NO LOSS TO OPERATORS
ConUautd ea Fact ritf. Column Tare
SENATE ORDERS ANTHRACITE RATE PROUE
WASHINGTON, June 22. An Investigation by tho Federal Trado Commission
into conditions In the anthracite coal industry was ordered by a resolution passed
by the Senate today. The resolution, presented by Senator Hitchcock, of Nebraska,
directs tho commission to "make a thorough probe of the conduct of the hard
coal industry with a view to determine the reasons for recent increases in the
price of coal."
CARRANZA DRAWS Sl.000,000 FROM N. Y. BANKS
NEW YORK, June 22, The Carranza Government has withdrawn virtually all
of the $4,000,000 which it has had on deposit here for financing of the ordinary
business of the de facto Government, it became known today.
U. S. ASKS FOR BIDS ON 12,000 WAR HORSES
WASHINGTON, June 23. The biggest single contract for horses ever glyen by
Uncle Sam will be let within the next week to supply the National Guard for service
along the Mexican border. Tho Quartermaster General has advertised for bids for the
delivery of 43,642 horses and 20,200 mules. The bids will be opened on June 26 at
Fort Sam Houston, San Francisco, Seattle, Fort Reno, Okla.; Kansas City, Fort Keogh,
Mont., and Frort Royal, Va. The cost of these animals will be more than 10,000,000.
CHICAGO, June 22. Possible needs of tho United States for cavalry and
artillery horses are being given first consideration by dealers in the Chicago stock
yards. Nearly 2000 horses v.hlch were to have been offered as fit for service Jn the
European war have already been examined by Inspectors of the army quarter
master's department.
JAPAN SENDS WARSHIPS TO MEXICAN JORT
MEXICO CITY, June 22. It Is officially reported that a Japanese cruiser arrived
off Mazatlon yesterday. Officials believe more Japanese warships will arrive in
Mexican ports shortly. The purpose of tho shipswaa not made public Officially
It is stated tho United States wyly to Carranza's note will be publ'shed here within
the next -18 hours.
The United Gas Improvement Company
has nnnounced that an effort will be mad
to rcduco the cost of gas to consumers of
Philadelphia. President Samuel T. Bodlne,
In making the announcement, admits that
the company will lose nothing through the
plan and that the cost of the reduction will
fall directly 'upon the city treasury, as the
cost will be deducted from the share of
profits the city now receives under the pro
visions of the lease of the gas works. Th
plan has not yet been whipped Into shape
to present to the Mayor and Councils.
Tho proposal of President Bodlne to give
SO-cent gaB to Philadelphia, If the city gives
up tho 20 cents royalty It receives per
thousand feet of gas "Bold, Is likely to meet
serious opposition, because It would deprive
the city of 92,000,000 a year Income at a
time when the necessity for an lncreaa
in the tax rato Is admitted, even without
disturbing the gas lease.
Philadelphia this autumn will face a
situation calling for radical revision of the
city reenues, and any scheme to curtail
Income will meet with opposition accord
lng to members of the Finance Committee
of Councils.
Mayor Smith bo far has given no con
sideration to the question of abandoning
city revenues for the benefit of the United
Gas Improvement Company or the con
sumers and until he has a conference with
President Bodlne will have nothing to 'say
about the plan. The scheme to give the
consumers 80-cent gas was proposed yeara
ago under former Mayor Blankenburg and
at that time was abandoned because of the
Continued oa Fa riftwn. Celaain Three
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
tonight and Frvia); slowly rising tt
perature Friday; moderate northwest
winds becoming variable.
LOST AND POUND
PACKAGE Lent Backus containing architect'
drawing- of bulldlnc Koine from l&lh and Arch
to 0th and Chcatnut Reward U returned to
Mr. Hamilton, car o( QatcbaU and aUonuur,
3 South tttn at,
GOLD OAR FIN. set vita aippblre and pearUT
loat In Independence, Su. or in Wanamakr1;
?une 21. Jleward If returned to LdJir Cco
ral Olflce. Broad and Cheatnnt eta.
COLLIE PUP loat. 2 mo old. anawera name at
Jack Uteral reward 7i33 Qermanlowo ave.
Other Clai.uItJ Ad Fuu 1 m It
JJwjeMita.J.
