WT?
f T
?. i-frVH
f .
WEATHER FORECAST:
Fair Today and Tomorrow
(Full Report on Pnfra Two.)
HOME
EDITION
NUMBEB 8909.
WASHINGTON, THURSDAY EVENING-, JUNE 22, 1916.
A.
PBIOE ONE CENT.
MEXICANS LOST 14 MEN AT CARRIZAL
TWELVE AMERICANS DIED
IN
FIGHT
KUWH
bmsimi
0.S.HMI
Asks Reason for "Unprovoked
Attack" on Mexican Troops
By Pershing's Men.
PfO CHANGE IN POLICY YET
President Wilson is awaiting an
official report from Brig. Gen.
John J. Pershing, commanding the
American forces in Mexico, con
cerning tho clash between Ameri
can and Carranzista forces at Car
rizal, before determining on the
course of action to be followed.
Upon the nature of this report
Japanese Cruiser Is Off
Mexican Port
MEXICO CITY, Juno 22. It is
officially reported that a
Japanese cruiser has arrived
off Mnaztlan.
Officials believe more Japanese
warships will arrive in Mexi
can ports shortly. Tho purposo
of the ships were not made
public.
Officially it Is stated the United
States reply to Carranza's note
will be published hero within
tho next forty-eight hours.
RIGHT
mm
DEMANDS
PON ON MEXICO
California Senator Wants to
Know Why His Intervention
Measure Is Buried.
Meyer London Asks
Troops' Withdrawal
Presents Petition in House Signed
by 1,180 Persons From
Anti-War League.
The Mexican situation came up In
the Senate today when Senator Works
in j jul t. !ot i-amornia caueu up a resolution
Will depend Whether the time IS at ..which he Introduced Ave months ago
UmmA k tt:.,4 ci.i.. -i,-!alrecl,nT intervention in Mexico.
nnd Tor tne United Otates to make j He demanded to know why the For
nJ :, .ni.mn n.nra;nra r-.. ilgn Relations Committee, to which It
gOOd Its Solemn Warning tO Oar- was referred, had not acted.
...... ihnt -n .-.i, t, a ,-.: Chairman Stone, of the committee,
ranza that an attack on the Amen-; was hurriedly sent for by Admlnlstra-
Can forces "would lead tO grave Stone told the Senate his committee
.,... ............. had thought It best to take no action.
Consequences. and that he could not say when It
The Mexjcan Version Of the af- "Then I may move to discharge the
fair was laid officially before Sec
retary of State Lansing today by
Eliseo Arredondo, who had been
directed by his government to call!
attention to "the imprudence" of
(he American commander in going
so far from his base at Namiquipa
In face of the warning of General
Trevino that any movement on the
part of the .American forces, south,
east, or west, would be resisted;
and also to ask an explanation of
the "unprovoked" attack on the
Mexican force.
SAME ACCOUNTS.
Arrendondo's Information as to the
Carrlzal trouble tallied with nowspaper
Accounts springing from Mexican
sources.
Arredondo held It was unnecessary
for the Americans to make this movo.
IUs Information, he said, was direct.
"Several dead" were left on both
Ides, according to tho Mexican envoy,
while seventeen Americans were cap
tured by Carranzistas. He had no exact
Information as to the number of the
dead.
The Hexlcan embassy later gave out
General Cananras's Instructions to Ar
redono, Including his statement on the
Carrizal battle. It fellows:
Carranza's Letter.
"Please bring to the attention od
the Department of State that an en
gagement occurred today (Wednes
day) at Carrlzal. near Villa Ahu
mada. Chlhulhua. between American
forces numbering about 200 men, and
a force 6f our government troops.
"During , this engogement Oen.
Gomes and several of our soldiers,
as well as several Americans, were
killed Our forcos captured seven
Wen prisoners, according to a state
(Contlnued, on Second Page.)
TO USE
GUARDSMEN IN
MEXICO ASKED
Hay Introduces Resolution In
House Drafting Militia Into
National Service.
BAKER SPENDS A BUSY DAY
Secretary of War Baker had the
busiest day of his life today.
With the burden on his shoul
ders of preparing to meet all even
tualities in Mexico, Secretary
Baker has been in constant com
munication throughout the day
with the White House, State, and
Navy departments, and the Capi
tol. After arriving at his office short
ly after 0 o'clock this morning,
Secretary Baker went to the White
House for an extensive confer
ence .withthe President.
Returning from the White
committee from consideration of tho .. M- n-t... a c. .......
bin." said works, "i have no desiro LHqusc, Mr, Baker and Secretary
to tore a debate tansy, i no thinK
that if thft executive departments con
tinue their Inaction, Congress should
step In."
COMMANDS 10TH CAVALRY
WHOSE MEN WERE KILLED
3
If LlBBBBBflLlBBSBBBBKSnTIHaiBBBBBBW
BBBBBHasBBHLaa. I
4sY?r!BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBVs4BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBzV H
lBllllllllllllllllllHsBlllllllllllllllll
0BREG0N ORDERED
ATTACK ON TROOPERS
OF TENTH CAVALRY
Juarez' Is Being Evacuated Today By Army of
Carranzistas Who Utilize Box Cars.
Re-enforcements Rushed By Pershing to
Aid Troops in Danger.
of State Lansing were in confer
ence. Secretary Baker then went
to the Capitol with a copy of the
drafting resolution permitting the
President to draft the national
Guard into the military service of
the United States.
RESOLUTION INTRODUCED.
Later In the day, follhvlng his con
ference with Secretary Baker, Chairman
James Hay, of the Military Affairs
Committee, Introduced the resolution In
Congressman Meyer London presented
In the House today petition signed tne nnUBC.
withdrawal of AmTrl troop. In Mexl- option of this resolution make, pos
co. Tho petition was forwarded by the 'ble the uflo of the national guard on
Greater New York division of the Anti
War League of America.
"The presence of our soldiers on the
soil of a sister republic," says the peti
tion, "carries with It the terrible
menace of an almost nevltable war be
tween the two nations.
"To avoid a repltion of the European
carnage and devastation on this conti
nent, we urge the Federal legislature
and the President to withdraw our
troops from Mexico. Such action alone
will, at this crlUcal period In our his
tory, be tho only preventve against a
horrible continental war."
Miss Reglna D. Elklns, of Brooklyn,
division secretary of the league, wrote
a supplementary letter uting the adop
tion In Congresg of a resolution calling
for the withdrawal of troops.
ARMY TRANSPORTS
HELD IN READINESS
Four Ships Ordered to Be Pre
pared for Instant Service.
' -Photo by Harris & Effing.
COL. WILLIAM C. BROWN.
m ci
B
MEXICO G1TY GETS
FUNSTON IS TOLD NEWS OF BATTLE
Women and Children of City in
Frenzy of Fright Mayor
Clagett Says.
Carranza Seeks Aid
In South America
Starts Anti-United States Propa
ganda Through an Informa
tion Bureau.
By CHARLES P. STUART.
BUENOS AIRES. June 21 The Mexi
can government today launched an ex
tensive antl-Unlted States propaganda
in South America.
Former Argentine Congressman Pa
Isclo has accepted an offer to make a
speaking tour against the United States.
Ho is working aireciiy unucr mo aus
pices of the Mexican Federation of La
bor. The Information bureau organized by
General Carranza Is circulating matter
throughout Argentina and other South
American states aiming to stir up hos
tility to the United States,
The newspaper La Prenza. this morn
ing prints a declaration of Carranxa's
Information agency that the United
States regards Mexico as the first ob-
stscie In her
NORFOLK, June 21 Orders to make
the army transports Kllpatrlck, Meade,
Burfort and Sumner ready for service
have been received at Newport News,
where the vessels have been held In re
serve for some time.
It is reported the transports will be
used to carry troops to Galveston, whence
thev can bo hurried to the Mexican
border by train.
citato troops rrom Virginia and Mary
land, It Is said, may be taken to Mexi
co by transport.
May Resort to Militia
Conscription in Minnesota
BT. PAUL, Minn., June .-.onscrip-tlon
may bo forced upon Minnesota men
capable of bearing arms, to recruit the
Minnesota National uuard to run war
strength.
Tne Minnesota military code pro
vides for enrollment of eligible arm
bearers, with the taking of each census.
High military authorities today said
they considered this clause, sufficient
ground for forcing Minnesota men to
enlistment, the matter may be brought
before the State supreme court for a
test.
foreign soil.
The resolution gives the President
general authority concerning the desig
nations of commands for tho forces thus
drafted and provides that where two
officers of the same grade are on duty
In tho samo field, department, or com
mand, the President may assign the
Chairman Hay said this afternoon
that he would ask unanimous consent
for the consideration of the resolution
tomorrow. No objection Ib expected, and
the resolution wUI e through both
houses quickly.
Natural Consequence.
Introduction of tho resolution today
Is regarded as the natural consequence
of the battle between Mexicans and
American troops In Mexico on yester
day. Two days ago It was decided by War
Department otflclans and Mr. Hay that
a resolution of this character would not
be Introduced for two weeks. It was
feared that Mexico might regard such
action as a virtual declaration of war.
The encounter between the Mexican
and American troops caused a change
In plan today and there will be no
'.elay In giving the President authority
to send the national guard to the
border and across the border If neces
sary. Under the law the President requires
tne specific authority of Congress to
lite the notional guard on foreign soil.
Department officials and Mr, Hay that
the guard to repel Invasion without
such specific authority.
Pessimism prevailed at tne capitoi
today over t e Mexican outlook. Many
members privately say that Intervention
(Continued on Second Page.)
Madeline Astor
Marries W. C. Dick
Nuptial Knot Is Tied at Bar Har
bor, Me., Today Before a
Few Friends.
At an early hour this morning the
War Department wired General Fun
ston to takq any steps deemed neces
sary for protection of Noralos, Ariz.
This net Ion wns takon nftnr midnight,
following rocelpt of a telegrm. from
Acting Mayor Clsgott. of .Nogales.
In his telegram Mr. Clagott said
women and children of the town were
In a ficnzled state of fright, because
p.OOu Mexican, equipped with thirty
six machlno nuns, were massing across
the barrier.
The acting mayor asked that tho town
be placed under marital law. un teie
sram wna directed to the War PcDart
ment. office if the Secretary. Earlier
In the evening Senator Henry F. Ash
urst went to the War Department with
n ttflerrnm for J. W. Edwards, on be
half of the Negates chamber of com
merce, aakiwf tnat protection ue given
cltlypnu.
Bflnator Ashurst tried to get In toucn
I.t. U aA.,..M. .. la Km. 1iI a
with the Secretary of War. but did not I "tried to occupy the station of Carrixal
succeed. Ho talked with Secretary to I of tho Mexican Central railroad." and
the President Tumulty, and latet placed I "General Trevtno ordered It to be at-
expanslon southward.
"The fate of Mexico Is decisive for
all Latin-America," the statement de
clared. , ,
Argentine students are organizing a
nass meeting to be held Monday to
mass roeeUng to be held Monday to Peking,
protest afainat American intervention. Jpplnea.
Body of Officer Killed
In Santo Domingo Here
NOHFOLK. June 21.-Wlth the body
of Capt. Herbert J. Hlrshlnger, U. 8.
M. C. on board, the collier Hector ar
rived In Hampton Roads last night from
Puerta Plata. Santo Domingo.
Captain Hlnmlngor was fatally
wounded by a sniper at Puerta Plata
May 31, whllo leading a party of Amer
ican marines which attempted a land
ing. Captain Hlrshlnger was a member of
the expedition which marched from
Taku, China, during the Uoxer uprising
tn rllv the beilesed legations In
Peking. He also saw service in the Phlll
BAH HARBOn. Me. June 22. Mrs.
Astor compltted her sacrifice of
money for love at the altar today.
Dressed In a simple blue serge travel
ing suit with a straw hat to match,
tho widow of Col. John Jacob Astor
was marrlod this ifternoon to Wit
J I am Carl Dick, of New York,
In doing so she automatical!1' 'or
felted sn lncomo from the $5,000,000
principal left her by the Tltanic's
wealthiest victim.
Tim officiating clergyman today was
the ltfv Albert C. I.arcned. The cere
mony took place In St. Saviours Prot
staut Church. Only a few Intimate
friends were present
The couple will spend their honey
tnoon at Santa Barbara. Cat
the Information he had with MaJ. Oen.
Tanker Bliss, U) the office of tho chief
of staff. M
The telegram from Mr. Edwards said,
In part" 'Thero arc about 6,800 people
here, which. In case of attack, will bo
bottled up and helpless, and loss of life
would bo very great. Tho American
town Is located In a cup-llko basin en
tirely communded by the hills on tho
Mexican side. It Is our belief that theso
hills should be occupied Immediately."
Senator Ashurst did not leave the War
Department until some time after mid
night. Ho conferred with officers In the
office ot the chief of staff.
Troops Hurry to Relief
Of Nogales, Arizona
DOUGLAS, Arlx., June 22. Respond
ing to appeala of residents at Nogales,
Arlr., a battalion of the Fourteenth In
fantry and a similar number of Art
rona national guardsmen aro en route
to that city today.
Military commanders were convinced
of tho truth ot reports that a largo
forco of Mexicans was concentrating a
few mlloa below Nogales and feared
another raid on the border. The Santa
Crux valley will bo strongly patrolled
and guaided.
Refugceo arriving here say thero la
n genoral movement now or uarranxa
troops northward to the border.
SJiarks Drive Fourteen
Whales to Sandy Death
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., June .
Fourteen monster whales were driven
ashore here last night by a school of
sharks.
They died after tho receding tldo lert
them In a hollow they had threshed
Into the sand high up on the beach.
It has been fifteen years since such
an Incident occurred near here, two
whales having been driven ashore tn
1ML
EL PASO, Tex., June 22. Twelve Americans, in
cluding their commander, whose name is unknown, were
killed in the battle at Carrlzal yesterday, Mexican Consul
Garcia announced today.
Seventeen Americans were captured and the Amer
icans retreated carrying off a number of wounded, consulate
advices said.
The Mexicans lost fourteen killed and a number
wounded.
Capt. Lewis S. Morey is reliably reported today to have
been in command of the Tenth Cavalry detachment which
figured in the Carrizal fight..
The Carranzista troops opened,, fire on the United
States cavalry at Carrizal on War Minister Obregonfs orders.
General Gonzales, commander in Juarez, announced he had
received Obregon's message to this effect
Juarez, the Mexican border town opposite El Paso, is
being evacuated today. Before dawn two troop trains left
Juarez for the south, together with Carranzista soldiers and
many civilians.
JUAREZ BEING EVACUATED.
They were riding atop cars and hanging on the sides.
It is expected that all soldiers excepting possibly a small
guard will leave Juare ztonight
All along the border army officers are hovering over
telegraph instruments every moment expecting a flash that
General Pershing's long awaited report on the Carrizal
battle is on the wires.
General Funston at San Antonio wired Pershing at 6
a. m. today for a report on the battle. He said any addi- ,
tional request for militia would depend on Pershing's report.
Up to 1 o'clock the American version of the clash that
caused the death of twelve United States cavalrymen had
not been received, though further confirmation of the battle
were pouring in from Mexican sources.
But every border man, civilian and soldier alike, be
lieves that when the real story comes through it will be an
account of American soldiers led into a trap by a subterfuge,
murdered in cold blood because they respected a flag of
truce.
Confirmation of the belief that the early accounts that
Americans were the aggressors were false is found in dis-
tu'rel0 SesrrheXmerin I patches from Mexico City given out by General 'Gonzales.
IGNORED THE "DEAD LINE."
The clash was due to failure of General Pershing to
obey Carranza's "dead line" edict is the statement attribut
ed officially to General Obregon, with never a word of the
version that an American officer fired on a messenger bear
ing a flag of truce.
Army officers are outspoken in their belief that the of
ficial report from General Pershing will bear out the state
ment of the two American passengers who told of how the
Mexicans boasted of leading the colored cavalrymen to their
death by a trick.
Unofficial reports from various sources tell of how the
expeditionary force is preparing for eventualities.
Re-enforcements were being rushed to the aid of the
victims of an ambush. General Pershing has sent a body of
additional troops to the Tenth general headquarters, accord
ing to word received here. Gen. Pershing is redisposing his
entire force as a result of yesterday's clash with Carranza
ing out their supplies and stores. . ' . .. - , - .,
these supplies are being sent to Em troops at Carrizal, according to reports from the held today.
Palme, a railroad center, .wr- '... . . .
atGnu,"cavy orces, reaay ror unmeawie acuon, r ucuig w-
War Office Announces Engage
ment Between U. S. Forces
and Trevino's Troops. .
MEXICO CITT, June 22. American
troops from General Pershing's com
mand wero engaged and driven back
by General Trevino's forces In a battle
at Carrlzal Station, o tho Mexican
Central railroad, 'the war office an
nounced today. Seventeen Americana
wero captured. Gen. Felix Gomez was
fatally wounded and died after the
battle.
The war office announced that the
clash was caused by General Persh
ing's defiance of the Instructions re
cently transmitted to him by General
Trevino that any further advance into
Mexico would be forcibly resisted.
An earlier announcement from tho
war office said that the American
troops attempted to occupy therall
road station at Carrlzal.
General Obresron'a version of tha Car
rlzal -clash was that the American force
tacked
Obregon quoted from a report made
by Trevino that ho (Trevino) had been
Informed the fight began early In tho
morning, the Carranzista troops attack
ing the Americans In response to orders.
"I have Just been Informed the Ameri
can forces wero repulsed," Trevino's
report declared. A second dispatch
from Trevino, Issued by Obregon, said:
leader was responsible for the conflict.
General Gomez, the Carranza com
mander killed In action, was born In
Vanegas, San Luis Potosl, and Joined
tho Carranza revolutionists three
years ago. He was on the staff of
General Gutierrez and accompanied
Gutierrez to the capital when the lat
ter was elected provisional President
by Mexican chiefs. When Outterrez
fled the capital Oomez followed him,
and took the Held against Villa. He
later surrendered to Gen, Jacinto Tre
vino. For several months he haa been
operating under General Trevino In
western Chihuahua.
Thousands Recruited
For the Mexican Army
GALVESTON, Juno 22.-Fevorlah mili
tary activity continued In Mexico today.
A cablegram received here today
atatea that 25,000 coluntcera have been
raited In the state of Pueblo alone, and
that corresponding numbers are being
recruited In all parts of the republic.
Carranzistas Are Moving
Supplies From Quaymas
Reports from tho cruiser Cleveland
are that conditions at Guaymas are un
settled and that Carranzistas are mov
The Cleveland expects
Mvsnty American refugees
