THE ARIZONA KEPHBL
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
CAN
TWENTY-SEVENTn YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, JUNE 22, 1916
Awvuan bj.vj.1
12 PAGES -
VOL. XXVII, NO. 35
rwEnnru
S. TROOP
AM 1 1
CAN GUSH
Washington. Realizes Situation Has Become
I
Grave
NEWS OF
CAUSES
FEARS
FIMIXICAN
OFFICERS MEWS
FOR THE FUTURE! OFMCIES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KL PASO, June 21. Consul Garcia
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON'. June 21 Reports I
that American and Carranza troupers announced over the telephone from Jua
Jiad clashed aroused trravest mmrehen- i rez late toniKht that he had received
nion here toniKht for future relations I official reports confirming the fact that j for the recall
CARRANZA 'S NEXT STEP iC
IS ANXIOUSLY A WAITED f
BYU. S. GOVERNMENT
between the Vnited States and the i American command engageu was a.
Mexican de facto government already j Part t,f tne Tenth cavalry, a negro regi
strained almost to the breaking point. me,1t- He had had no detalls- how-
Officials declined to make anv proph- I "'er, to the number of Americans or
rsy as to the next step of the Wash- I -Mexicans engaged, he said. -ington
government, saying that until ! Later General Francisco Gonzales,
details of the incident had been cleared ' Mexican commander at Juarez, gave
tip, it could not be determined whether j ut a statement in which he announced
crisis had been precipitated. They I officially that the Mexican command
made no effort to conceal their anxietv, ud taken seventeen American prison -but
were not ready to abandon hope ers- He alao Silid that General Gomez'
that an official account of what hap- I death nad lK,en confirmed, but said he
in-lied at Carrizal would remove the j had no official reports as to the num
more threatening elements of the situ- ; ber of casualties on either side. The
atjlin 1 wounded, both American and Mexican,
If it were a deliberate attempt to the exact number of whom is not known
back up the Carranza edict by force. here- were taken to Villa Ahumada.
there seems little doubt that President C.eneral Gonzales made the following
Wilson will accept it as an act of war (Statement:
and make good his word in the latest i "Immediately upon learning of the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON', June 21. Some in
timation as to what General Carran
za's next step would be was expected
hourly tonight at the state depart
ment. Official advices report that
the American rejection of the demand
of General Pershing's
! ONLY SIXTY MILES j
I FROM TUCSON CITY
LVFRE LOSSES
ON BOTH SIDES
ARE ADMITTED
troops from Mexico was under con
sideration today by the" first chief
and his cabinet.
Special Agent Rodgers who made
the report was unable to forecast the
action of the de facto government and
threw little light on what was going
on in the Mexican capital. From
other sources it was learned that Eu
ropean diplomats are exerting pres
snre on Carranza to prevent him from
going to war with the I'nlted States.
The entente allies are particularly
anxious, it is understood, that nothing
should occur at this time to shut off
the oil supplies for the French and
British navies from the Tampico
! fields.
' Allied, diplomatics in Mexico say
communication to tl:. ce facto govern- Presence oi tne American troops in u,e ...mns n.ne ueen u s
uie vicinity oi arnzai, ijenerai renxiou uiian.i to uraie a sii.uai.ioii mui
. Tl'CSON, Ariz., June 21. Ad-
I ices to the sheriffs office here i
I today reported the presence of 250 j ;
1 Carranza soldiers at Sasabe, on :
the Arizona -Sonora line, only six- t ,
ty miles from Tucson. Sasabe is I !
biit a small Mexican port of entry j
I and the presence of the force of
j soldiers there is unexplained.
Tucson is protected by a well- j
organized force A home guards, I
! which is on the alert tonight, and
tomorrow, there will be recruited
i company of mounted guards !
I and an automobile corps for the
I quick transportation of the home j
dofop.se ;'oroes to any part of the j
! country. j
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, June 111 Severe
1 losses on both sides is the result of
a fight between l"nited States troops
land Mexican soldiers today at Car
Irizal, nine miles south of Ahumada.
j The Americans in the
i were 'a detachment of the Tenth
AMERICAN SCOUTING PARTY
SURPRISED BY GOMEZ FORCE
SEVERAL MILES FROM BASE
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
EL PASO, Tex., June 21. American and Carranza
troops fought a bloody battle today only a few hours after
President Wilson's six thousand word rebuke yesterday
to General Carranza had gone forward to Mexico City.
With which side victory rested is not known.
The engagement took place on the Santo Domingo
ranch near the Mexican town of Carrizal, which is nine
ngagement j miios southwest of Villa Ahumada, the Mexican field
fenth cav-I , , . . . . . .n -n -i r ' m. i . . i-
neattquariers
to got to General Funston late to
night any report of the engagement,
but there appeared no reason to doubt
the report from 'Mexican sources that
a serious engagement had taken place.
ment in which he said that any such
attempt would be followed by
gravest consequences."
Whatever the outcome of the official
investigation, however, it was admitted
on every hand that the incident pre-
tne ' Gomez despatched a messenger with a
request that the American commander
i withdraw to his camp. When the
American troops remained motionless
he sent a second despatch bearer, who
friendly relations and brought the Mex- , after he had delivered his message. The
; Americans immeaiaieiy moveo. iorwara
' and attacked General Gomez' command.
ican situation to perhaps the most
Horious stage it has assumed in the
many months of uncertainty.
President Wilson remained at his
office until late tonight receiving such
meager information on the subject as
wan obtainable.
Secretary liaker was in close touch
with. -the' "war department and the
White House. There was every evi
j "All the prisoners admitted that the
' blame should be put upon the American
commander for having ordered the at
tack. The prisoners were sent to Chi
j huahua with the customary protec
; tion."
j Genera! Gonzales said that the report
j of the engagement was made to him
lcnoe that credence was given the re- I 1)5 lieutenant Colonel Genovezo Rivas.
lort, though the report came from
Mexican sources and there was full re- ,
ulization of what it might mean. The
Mexican story of the fight as given to 1
General Bell by Consul Garcia at Kl
Paso was forwarded to the war depart-' '
ment by General Funston without com- '
ment. The wording of the dispatch '
led to the announcement by depart-
ment officials that the reports had re- 1
ceived confirmation from American I
nourc.es. A complete copy, however, 1
revealed that General Bell had no in- '
formation except that given him by '
the Mexican consul. While it was not
accepted in that form as final con
firmation, officials indicated that they .
had no doubt some sort of clash had
occurred though they did not believe
the consul's report that American '
troops had violated their orders and
made an attack. I
who succeeded to the command of the
Carrancistas with the fall of General
Gomez.
General Hell received reports which
he was unable to confirm that the
American command engaged was a
might embarras the enemies of the
central powers. They have asserted
that Gorman agencies have been ac
tive in stirring op feeling against the
I'ni''d states not only in Mexico, but
throughout South and Central Ameri
ca, to prevent this country from se
curing trade formerly controlled by
German merchants.
It is understood that the diplomats
have pointed out to General Carranza
that the American note only declines
to consider immediately, any sugges
tion that its troops ! withdrawn
from Mexico, and that it quote a
portion of the 'agreement between
General Scott and General nbregon.
providing among other things, for the
-
(Continued on Page Three)
-
No Word from Pershing
COLI'MISUS, June 21. Military au- I
thorities here late tonight announced
that no reports from General Pershing
of the engagement at Carrizal had been
received over the army wireless. They
were inclined to place some credence
(Continued on Page Three)
ORDERS PRISONERS
TAKEN TO CHIHUAHUA
CHIHt'AHUA CITY, Mdx., I
I June 21. Orders were issued by
j (Jer.erul Jacinto Trevino, com-
I manding the Carranza army cf j
I the north, to bring the seventeen
I merieans captured today at Car- i
I ribal to Chihuahca City under a j
! heavy guard. Reports here place
! the entire blame for the encounter
J upon the American command, it j
being asserted that in the eight
1 hours preceding the engagement j
! several warnings were sent them i
I to withdraw.
The populace of the city, which
I remained quiet tonight, expressed
much sorrow of the death ofGen- I
eral Gomez, who was one of the
i youngest and most popular lead-
ers of the de facto armv.
:
:w . TV,,. ,.t, gl
airy, a negro organization, and a ' IK'auquai I CI S 111 II' Htilci II Vyiuuuaiiua. ijuc liuiiiuci ul
force of carranza troops under Gen- j dead, American or Mexican, was not definitely known to-
eial Felix Gomez, who was killed in , u n it"i-'
the fight. j night, but neawy a score or General Pershing s men are.
General Pershing has been unable 8aj(l ) )ave )(.en killed and tile MeXlCRllS are Said to hUVC
lost more than two score.
Seventeen Americans are declared by Mexican offi
cials to have been captured and to have been hurried to
instead of the tension being broken ; Chihuahua City under adequate guard. A machine gun
lonighVan by the Mexicans is reported to have done heavy ex-
ability that it would be lessened un- ; pent ioil.
til the official report from General ! mi i i i.i t i. i. l l
Pershing was received or until otfi- The Americans engaged are thought to have been
ciai news of undisputed aggression of, liipmhpvK of a ti'oori from the Tenth cavalrv. a iipyro refi-
mission under the treaty of 1848 be-I the same Mexican troops is received. . , i- . j. r, v rm
tween both countries. General Kunston said he would send merit, 1'etUming frOHl a SCOUtlllg trip to GllZmaU RSlZC
The state department haU no of-j no special orders to General Bell, J of tilt Mexican foi'Ce, W'hoSe COmmandei, General FellX
ii iai icpoiis on tne peace-iiiaiwiig L-ujimiaiiuiiig at r.i raait, or to uen
etforts in Mexico City, although it eral Pershing until he had received
hits been informed indirectly of what ' official news.
is transpiring. It is believed the as- The Mexican commander at Juarez,
surances contained in Secretary Lnn- i General Francisco Gonzales, insisted
sing's note that the United States ! that the American commander pre-
gradual withdrawal of the American
forces.
Another suggestion is that the dis
pute over the border conditions could
well be referred to an internal Tora-
would war on Mexico only if driven :
to it by attacks, h '.ve leen repeated ,
to diplomatic callers seeking informa- I
tioi. Those assurances may have;
paved the way for the representations :
being made to Carranza. urging him 1
int to fwrce the issue he has raised. I
A stndv of all Veneral C.T1-: unza's I
cipitated the fight by firing on the
bearers of a white flag who were
moving forward to parley. A report
brought to Kl Paso late today by an
American indicated that the Ameri
cans had been led into an ambuscade
by the use of a white flag.
The meagre details of the fight re-
communications and actions
ATTUHH
MILITIA SENT TO IGALES
ON APPEAL mi CITIZENS
DOUGLAS, Ariz., June 21. One batta'ion of the Arizona militia
and a battalion of the Fourteenth United State? infantry were
sent to Noqalei, Ariz., tomght on a special train. The militia consisted
of companies I., K., L., and M. The soldiers were sent in response to
an appeal from citizens at Nogales.
durin" ceived by General Funston included
i the facts that General Felix Gomez.
(Continue on Page Two) I commanding- the Mexicans, was among
j the killed, that the casualties on both
' sides were considerable and the In-
timation that the Americans had
i fallen back.
It was admitted at army head-
quarters that General Kunston's de-
termination not to send any special
I orders to General Pershing or General
j Bell did not mean that swift punitive
I action would not be undertaken.
I It was regarded as not at all im
j probable that even already General
j Pershing may have taken steps to
j even the score.. Many officers at de
! oartment headquarters believe that if
he had not already sent a heavy force
towards Ahumada he would do so on
receipt of the news and knowledge
of the number of men he has in a
state of preparedness.
From Brownsville to the Pacific,
Goinez, was killed, is not known.
News of the battle was received in Juarez early this
ifternoon by General Francisco Gonzales, Carranza com
mander of 'the military zone of the border. For some rea
son or other, General Gonzales kept the story secret until
iate in the afternoon, when an American, J. C. Iluppel. re
turning to the border from the interior, brought to El Paso
the news that he had seen numbers of Mexican dead along
the Mexican Central railroad track at Villa Ahumada, and
had been told that there had been an encounter with the
"gringos."
BELL TELLS FUNS
VERSION OF TIE EIGHT
rnepi.bllcan A. P. Leased Wire ) clash with Carranzistas at Carrizal
HAN ANTO.Mo, June 2. General according to reports from the field to
Funston received late tonight from j night. Heay forces, ready for imme
General Bell at El Paso, the Mexican diate action, are being concentrated at
version of a fight today between a j Xamiquipa, 2S milts south of the bor
detachmetit of General Pershing's' der, and at Colonia Dublan, 120 miles
M
tr ops and troops of the de facto gov
ernment at Carrizal, nine miles south
west of Ahumada.
A slightly different version was
brought to Kl Paso by an American,
who passed through Ahum:ula and
thorp heard Mexicans boasting that
they had decoyed the Americans into
an action by the use of a Hag of
truce.
The casualties on neither side wera
reported by General Bell, whose in
formation was received from Andres
Garcia, Mexican consul at Kl Paso,
who gave it at the request of General
Gonzales, commander at Juarez. Gen
eral Gonzales had received the report
from Ahumada, a station on the Mex
ican Central railway, that connecU
Chihuahua City, the capital of the
tnto. with the border. The wounded
were taken to Ahumada. ,
From the Americans who passed
through Ahumada at 2:30 ocioek this
nl'terpocn, General Hell learned that
the t.fexicans believed the American
force to havebeen a detachment of
the Teith cavalry. General Funston
said tonight no orders changing the sit
uation would be issued to General Per
suing or to General Bell until he had
received the official report from Gen
eral Pershing.
sooth. Dispatches said also that Amer
ican scouting patrols have penetrated
the Santa Clara canyon, about 3j
miles directly east of Xamiquipa.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NOGALES. Ariz.,
forcements for the
American troopres here have been
ordered and will arrive tomorrow, it
was stated on good authority tonight.
Trains have been ordered in readiness
to convey several detachments of reg
ulars and purt of the Arizona Na
tional Guard from Tucson.
Pablo Pontes, paymaster in General
Calles' army, was released here to
night and allowed to cross over to'
the Mexican side after he had been
lodged In jail on a charge of recruit
ing for the Carranza army. The re
lease was made after a conference
between Colonel W. II. Sage, ranking
officer here, and Mexican Consul
Delegade.
T. B. Kncinas, a Mexican who has
been in business on this cide of the
line for a number of years, and
charged with complicity in Pontes'
operations, was lodged jn the county
jail later and, was still held tonight.
Pontes is said to have had a large
sum in cash on his person, and to
have had a long list of Mexican resi
dents from whom he was to try
June 1. Rein-enlist with the amount suggested
fifteen hundred 'a bonus in each case.
General Gonzales' first step after confirming the news
was to issue a statement placing the blame on the Ameri
can commander. He charged that the American troops
fired first on the Mexicans and that their shots were di
rected at a courier who had just presented to them a re
quest that they retire.
American army officers declared absolute disbelief
tonight in General Gonzales' assertions. The opinion was
expressed that if the Americans fired on the Mexicans they
did so because it was necessary in order to insure their
own safety. General Trevino s recent warning to General
Pershing not to send his troops east, south or west of their
positions was recalled.
Excitement spread in El Paso as extras were issued
General Kunston's army of 40,000 and tne news became kilt iwu. Uuiet was maintained, how-
a" panrZt TXuarver, in view of General Bell's frequent admonitions that
ters were counting the hours it would
I take to bring south units of the na
j tional guardsmen.
General Funston Reports
On The Carrizal Clash
Republican A. P. Leased Wire , villa Ahumads and opened fire on the
WASHINGTON, June 21. General Mexican captain, wounding him.
Funston reported late tonight that he Americans attacked Geeral Gomez but
had received official notification of a and killing a private who was with
clash between Carranza and American I him. Americans attacked General Go
troops early today, near Carrizal, mez but were thrown back and seven
Mexico. He had no details of tha1 men. taken nriaonen. Prisoners wer
incident, however, except- those Pro
vic'.ed by Mexican officials at Juarez.
General Funston transmitted to the
sent to Chihuahua.
"Garcia says this was telephpned at
I reouest of General Gonzales.
Pershinn Redisposing Force
COLPMBKF, N. M.. June 21. Gen
eral Pershing, the American expedi
tional oommnnd"r, is redisposing his
entire force ns a result of today's
war department the following report) "An American, who was on the
from General Bell at E Paso: j train today passing Villa Ahumada,
' Mexican "Consul Garcia telephoned ' at 2:30, said re saw several dead
me ot 6 p. m. as follows: Mexicans put on his train, among
"There was a clash at CarrizaL near them a dead Mexican general. There
Villa Amuhada, between Carranza and i were also several Mexican wounded.
American troops in which General He gathered from .talk, there that the
Gomez and other Mexicans were killed fight was with American cavalry, fline
the number unknown. Number of, miles west and that the1 Americans
Americans killed or wounded un-1 were decoyed into a trap by the
known. . ) Mexican flag of truce and they were
"General Gomez sent a captain with' then fired upon by machine guns,
an order to the American comnianderj and they had to retire. Reports later
to go back, but the American com-: that our troops engaged was the Tenth
mander said he was going to the cavalry."
' Mexicans Concentrating
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOCGLAS, Ariz., June 21. Mexican
soldiers, in larger numbers than ever
noticed before, "are being concentrat
ed at points along the railroad lead
ing from the border here to Nacozari,
7fi miles south, according to the state
mints of American mining men ar
riving here today from El Tigre,
Moctezuma and other points in Sonora,
south of here.
The Mexican forces, according to
the arrivals, apparently were making
every preparation to resist a possible
advarce along the railroad by soldiers
of the t'nited States in the event of
hostilities Many of the score or-more.
of Americans who arrived from the
mining camps of Sonora were searched
three or four- times by Mexican offi
cers before reaching the border.
At Esnueda, where those en route
frcm Kl Tigre awaited today's train
for Agua Pricta, one mining man who
carried a revolver and three boxes of
cartridges, was placed under guard un
to 1 1 nP..;,.n nt Ua train it wo c
said. The Mexican officers the,n es
corted him to the train.
The Moxicp.n officials took especial
care to show courtesy toward the ref
ugees at several points along the route
to the border, where all baggage was
carefully inspcted, according to the
Americans arriving on the one train
to Agua Prieta today.
Sixteen American employes ' remain
ed a the El Tigre mines yesterday
when the majority of the employes de
parted, but they were to leave there
today in two automobiles, and were
expected to reach here tonight or to
morrow. A few citizens of the United
States remain at scattered camps
south of the railroad, but most of
them were expected to reach the bor
der within a day or two.
As the Americans were coming north
they stated they passed large num
bers of Mexican families making their
way toward the interior of Sonora.
Some were traveling in wagons, oth
ers on horses, burros and mules and
still others were walking, carrying
their bundles of bedding and followed
by a nrmedscript variety of dogs.
During the day a number of Mexican
URGES EL PASOANS
TO
1 U
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KL PASO. June 12. Tom Lea,
mayor of Bl Paso, issued a statement
tonight in which he urged the people
of the citv to remain calm in the
crisis. He said:
"Tlie military and civil authorities
have made every preparation to pro
lect Kl Paso in any eventuality and
no cause for alarm should be found
in the reported engagement between
American and Mexican forces at Car
rizal. "Business is progressing in the nor
mal way and there is absolutely no
cause for apprehension for the safety
of any person in this city."
Machine guns were placed on the
American side of the ty'o international
bridges here tonight and the military
guard was ''doubled. Few persons
crossed the river in either direction
during the night and there were no
disturbances.
o
NEWS IS SUPPRESSED
y (Continued on Page Thref)
his soldiers could take care of anv situation that would
arise. While awaiting instructions from headquarters at
San Antonio, General Bell kept his entire force in readi
ness for instant action. ' - - '
In the meantime, however, word came from Juarez
that all was quiet, although the news of the battle was wide
spread there.
At an early hour tonight the only details of the en
gagement received here came from Mexican side of' the
river. General Gonzales said that his information was
transmitted to him from Villa Ahumada by Colonel Geno
vezo Piivas, who commanded the Mexicans after their lead
er, General Gomez, was slain. General Gonzales also gave
the Mexican explannation of how the two forces came in
contact. N
According to General Gonzales, he was informed by
j General Gomez at Villa Ahumada last night of the pres
ence ot the Americans westward between Villa Ahumada
and El Valle. He savs he immediately instructed General
Gomez to proceed ot the Santo Domingo ranch, where the
Americans were reported "in unknown force," and ad
vise their commander to. retire to their camp.
This, he says, General Gomez did this morning. The
American commander, whose name was not given by Gen
eral Gomez, is said to have replied that he was instructed
to proceed to Villa Ahuma and must do so.
Whichever side began the engagement, the Mexicans
had the advantage for thev provided with a machine
un, and this is supposed to have done deadly 'execution
lhat the latter were not
inefficient, however, was proved, by the number of Mexi
can dead and wounded removed tcTVilla Ahumada and wit
nessed by Americans coming north on a train bound to
Juarez. '
The battle began about 10:30 a. m. and lasted not more
than an hour. It apparently ended by both sides with
drawing. The failure of General Pershing t,o report on it,
indicates that the American survivors had not yet return
ed to their base at an early hour tonight. "
A story brought to El Paso by J. C. Hubble an Amer
ican who has been employed by the Compania Agricola at
Boquillas, bears" out several of the details of the engage
ment presented by General Gomez. Hubble V story was
' Republican A. P. Leased .Wire
nooai.es. Ariz., June 2i.-Report8 1 jn the ranks of tlie Americans
or tne engagement oetween American
ami Mexican forces south of El Paso
were suppressed here tonight at the
reo,r?st of the militaryauthorities. It
was feared that publication of the re
ports might excite the Mexican resi
dents of the American town, who com
voe two-thirds of the population.
Mexican Vice Consul Sarabla here
sent a message to a citizens' mass
meeiin?", held in the Arizona town to
night protesting that Mexican troops
have no intention of attacking Nogales.
He offered to escort anv committee of
Americans twenty miles south of the
border to satisfy residents that no
troops were beinsr assembled.' The of
fer was accepted and a committee ot
fiVe appointed to make the trip early
in the morning.'
e
