5
MARKETS
WEATHER
?I20NA Generally
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
June 14, 27..04.
i l&M JQy
Associated Press Special Leas ed Wire Service.
VOL 19, NO. 22.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, JUNE 22, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
. 5. TROOPERS
WH9STAS
11
mm
fert Hi P3
!
REPORT DPOP ""EJ S URGE
mini yiv j R EPO RTEDJ D I N I N G CALLES numm
ULflljl I If III I i (By Review Leased Wire.) 'sources that General Calles will c'jn-. 0 ft I 1 I 1 . lu La it
START
WAR
Washington Withholds Act
ion Till Details Arrive. If
Carranza Did It, U. S. Ar-
- mies Go In
PRESIDENT STAYS
LATE AWAITING WORDJ
But Only Mexican Version Is
Yet Received. Mexican
Situation Today Worst In
History
(Bv Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, June 21.
Reports that American and Car
ranza troopers had clashed
aroused gravest apprehension
here tonight for future relations "
'between the United States and ,
Mexico already strained almost
to the breaking point. -"
Officials declined to make any .
prophecy as to the next step of
the Washington government, say
ing that until details of the inci
dent had been cleared up, it could
net be determined whether a
.crisis had been precipitated. They
made no effort to conceal their
anxiety, but were not ready to
abandon hone that an official ac
count of what happened at Carri
ral would remove the more threat
ening elements of the situation.
If it were a deliberate attempt
t oback ud the Carranza edict, it
seems little doubt that President
Wilson will acceot it as an act of
war and make good his word in
he latest communication to the .
de facto government in which he
said that any such attempt would
be followed "by the gravest con
sequences." Situation at Worst. - :
Y.Tiatever the outcome of the offi
cial version, it, was admitted on every
hnnd that the incident in itself pre
sented a srave menace to th econtin
uanoe of friendly relations and
brought tiie Mexican situation to per
haps the most serious stage it has
assumed in the many months of un
certainty. President Wilson remained at his
office until late tonight receiving
such meagre information on the sub
ject as was available. Secretary "alt
er was in close touch with the war
department and the White House by
telephone. There was every evidence
that credence was Riven the report
of the clash and there was full reali
zation of what it might mean. The
Mexican story o fthe fight as given
to General Bell by Consul Garcia at
El Paso was forwarded to the war
department by General Funston with
out comment. The wording of the
d'soatch led to the announcement by
department officials that the reports
had received confirmation from Amer
ican sources. A complete cony, how
ever, revealed that General Bell had ,
no information .except that given Mm
by the Mexican consul. While it was
not accepted in that form as final
confirmation, officials indicated that
thev had no doubt some sort of clash
had occurred though they did not be
lieve the consul's report that Ameri
can troops had violated their orders
a-d made an attack. '
259 DE FAGTOS
SEEN DN BORDER
BELOW TUCSON
University Tom Is Atarmed
By Sonora Troops At Sas
ae: Will Recruit Mounted
Police Force
(By Review Leased Wire.) !
TUCSON. Ariz.. June 21. Advices
to the sheriff's office here today re- i
ported the presence of 2.ln Carranza 1
soldiers at Sasabe. on the Arizona- i
Sonora line, only 0 miles from Tuc-1
son. Pnsabe is but a small port of
entry and the presence of th- force
of soldiers there is unexplained. Tuc-
son is orote'ted bv a well organized :
force of home guards, which is on the
aWt tonight and tomorrow there will
b recruited a company of mounted j
police. j
(By Review Leased Wire.)
DOl'GLAS, Ariz.. June 21. At least
five hundred Mexicans residing in
Douglas and vicinity have applied at
the local Mexican consulate within
the last two days to express their
willingness to "die for Mexk'j". ac
cording to a statement made at the
consulate today. They were informed
that if they remained on this side of
the line their best course would be
10 abide by, the laws and remain
quiet. Most' of them are reported to
have crossed into Mexico, however.
Arrivals from the south reported
that the I'jnr pieces of Mexican artil
lery which had been parked at Front
eras for several months had been
moved today, apparently northward.
A general infantry movement was
also gotten under way. The cavalry
advance at Cabullona, 22 miles s'juth
of here, was reported to have been
strengthened.
General F. Elias Calles and a small
guard of soldiers are in Agua Prieta.
It was reported today from credible.
10 BATTAL
Arizona Border City Fears
Raid From Strong Forces
Below Line. State Guards
Despatched
(By Review Leased Wire.)
DOUGLAS. June 21. One battalion
of the Arizona militia and a battalion
of the Fourteenth United States in
fantry were sent to Nogales. Arizona,
tonight on a special train. The militia
consisted of Companies I, K, L and M.
The soldiers were sent in response
to an appeal fron citizens at Nogales.;
NOGALES. Ariz., June 21. Alarmed
bv persistent reports of large bodies
of Mexican troops near here' and oth
r large bodies mobilizing at Magda
lena, the mayor and the Nogales '
Po"rd of Trade sent telegrams today
to General Funston. Secretary of State
Lansing, Representative Hayden. Sen
ator Mark Smith and, finally, when
no answers had been received late .
today, to President Wilson, demand- j
ing the immediate despatch of more ;
troops to this vicinity. i
A meeting was called tonight for ;
the organization of a citizen's guard"
and patrol. A delegation of citizens
also visited the local daily newspaper
and requested that war bulletins be
taken from the windows because of
fear of their inflammatory effect. The
population of Nogales. Arizona, Is 66
per cent Mexican. ,
1200 MEXICANS
GO TO DOUGLAS
i
Are Peaceful Employes Who
Worked Below Line. 20
Americans Come Out
(By Review Leased Wire.) '
DOUGLAS, June 21. More than a
score of American refugees arrived
from El Tigre, Moctezuma and other
mining camps of Nacozan. They said
they were molested in no way by the
Mexican officials or civilians and that
at Esqueda. the railroad junction
pomt tor those coming from El Tigre
Mexican officers made every effort
to f.'iow their courtesy. The arrivals
said, however, that large numbers of
Mexican troops were being concen-.
trated at points along the railroad be-,
tween here and Nacozari. Sixteen '
Americans remained at the El Tigre
mine when the refugees left there yes
terday. These remained to close the i
plant and were to leave there today j
in automobiles.
The train arriving today brought
about 1200 Mexicans who had been
employed in American mines and
smelters in Sonora. These crossed
immediately to Douglas.
MEXICO CITY GAY
OVER "CARRIZAL VICTORY"
(By Review Leased Wire.)
MEXICO CITY. June 21 Extra
editions of the newspapers and bulle
tins pos'ed about the city tonight tell
of the defeat of American troops at
what is stvled "the battle of Carri-
The Americans are declared to have
been dispersed and 17 prisoners captured.
ARE RUSHED
TO IGNIS MISSING
j i
sources that General Calles will I'jn-j
tinue his policy of protecting Ameri
can lives and property, even should
war occur. He is said to have as
sured representatives t of American
mining companies that there w'juld
be no destructions of property in any
event, as every resource is needed for
the support 'jf the people of the state.
Col . M. Tuthill. commanding the.
First Arizona Volunteers, was cere
moniously mustered into the regular
service, this jiiipletiug the regiment
al muster. The regiment formed a
hollow square and the regimental
band played patriotic selections dur
ing the ceremony. '
Night surprise drills are being taken
by the troops iu Camp Harry J. Jones.
Calls to arms are t'junded at unex
pected moments during the nignt in
order to give the men practice in
meeting night surprises. A regiment
oi javairy anu several naileries oi
artillery were ready for a long march
within thirty minutes after the first
call last night.
"A
nP ft I I! Ill I" 1
ML I'nMnMLfl
III llUllUial l
Wl UnilflltLlI
neaa omeiier Ana VllUe
Ranch Men Fail To Reach
Border. Many
Leave District
Mexicans
A general exodus of lle.ic: n . citi
zens and their families was on from
the Warren District yestetday and
particularly from the Mexican settle
ments in the city of Risbce proper.
located on Chihuahua Hill and at
Zacatecas, in Upper Brewery Gulch,
The Mexicans left on the reconimen
dation of Mexican Consul Sierra, of
Ntoco, Arizona, who received his or
ders from the Mexican Ambassador
at Washington. The action is said
to be precautionary on the part of the
Mexicans.
u . .
day with departing aliens. '
Mexicans Assured Protection. I
Mayor Adams and the common
council yesterday addressed a com
munication to the Mexicans, in Span-
ish and in English, assuring them of
the utmost protection in t';e city of
Bisbee. The officers of Lowell have
ntl' iir-.oui.oi.n... .,ave agserted that German agencies
may have been it has tirred tli? local nave )eell at.tive in stirring up feel
Mexican population to no small de-. ing againsl tle i nited States not on
gree. Many with their families sud- !y in Mexico, tut throughout South
denly left their employment and left ad Central America, to prevent this
Disbee. The outgoing trains to the i country from securing trade formerly
border points were crowded yester- controlled by German merchants.
also assured the Mexican residents of , eral Scott and General Ohregon. pro
their part of the District that no agi- j viding among other Clings, for the
tation will be tolerated on the part j gradual withdrawal of the forces,
of Americans or Mexicans and that . Another suggestion is that the dis
order shall prevail and no Mexican pute over horder conditions could
will be given the worst or the hes
of any argument.
Americans in Cananea.
Fourteen Americans yesterday
morning remained in Sonora. Their
arrival at the 'border, is anxiously
awaited by the members ot the refu-
gee contingent in the District at tne k.an bor(Ior
present time and though Herr Krause. The s(ate departn)ent ha( nQ ...
a German citizen, who arrived in . (.a, T ,rts ,, fl)e pPa.e-ni..king ef
Bisbee yesterday afternoon front c- forts jn Mexk.0 rityi aUhouRli it' had
anea told of absolutely peaceful con- b(ipn ,nformed indire,,iy of what Is
ditions there, the Americans feel that . ,ranspirK. h is believed the assur
the latest developments may precipi- contained in Secretary Lan-
tat trouble.
Amep'-an Consu' Simnich. ct No
gales, Sonora, has been importuned
to search for Charles Wiswall. super
(Continued on Page Five.)
j
;
:
CAPTURED TROOPS
SENT TO CHIHUAHUA i:
Mexicans Mourn For General
Gomez, Who Was Killed
In Clash; Was Popular
IPv Review Leas?' Wire.)
CHIHUAHUA. Mex.. June 21-Ord-ers
were issued by General Jacinto
Trevino. commanding the Carranza
army of the north, to bring the seven
teen Americans captured today at
Carrizal. to Chihuahua City under a
heavy guard. Reports here place the
entire blame fur the encounter upon
t.'-e American command, it b' ing as
serted that in the eight hours pre
ceding the engagement several warn
ings were sent them to withdraw.
The populace of the city. whi-li re
mained nuiet tonight, expressed much
sorrow for the death of General Go
mez, who was one of the youngest
and. most popular leaders of the de
facto army.
10 BACK
DOWN
Gretl Britain Would Soothe
Irate First Chief And Thus
Protect Allies Oil Fields In
Tampico
LITTLE HOPE OF
CARRANZA YIELDING
Ententes Also Insinuate Ger
man Agents Have Been
Inflaming Mexicans And
South Americans !
(Bv Ksvltw Leased Wire) .
WASHINGTON. June 21. Seme in- j
Uimation as to what General Carran-1
' J!a'8 nt"xt s,en would be was expected I
1 hourly at the state department. Of-1
filial advices report that the Ameri-j
'can rejection of the demand for the!
i recall of General Pershing's, troops'
! from Mexico was under consideration !
! today by the first chief and hjs cabi-
Special Agent Rodgers who made
lne. reP,n was unable to forecast the
action oi me aeiacto government ana
threw little light on what was going
on in the Mexican capital. From oth
er sources however, it was learned
that Europor.n diplomats ere ex?rting
pressure on Carranza to prevent him
from going to war with the United
States. The Entente allies are par
ticularly anxious that notiiing should
occur at this time to shut off the oil
supplies for the French and British
navies from the Tampico fields.
Malign Germans
All'sd
diplomatic representatives
in Mexico believe, -too. that Germau
influences have been working on
Carranza in an effort to create a sit
uation thai might embarrasj the ene
mies of the Central Powers. I hey
. .
Soothing Carranza
It is understood that the diplomats
have pointed out to General Carranza.
that the American note only declines
to consider immediately, any sugges-
tion that its troops be withdrawn
from Mexico, and thai it quotes a por
tion of the agreement between Gen
well he referred to an international
commission under the treaty of 1 i4S
commission unai r ine treaty oi i5
hetween the two countries. Diplo
matic officials here are known to be
lieve that President Wilson would cou
sider such a suggestion if he met
with no interference in the mean-
t 1 111 II in 111., nfffiptil 1. IT 1 1 1. ..I tin. A ul
sing's note thnt the United States
would make war on Mexico only if
driven to it by attacks, have been re
(Continued on page two)
PERSHING CHANCES
FIGHTING FORMATION
COLUMBUS, June 21. Gen
eral Pershing, the American
expeditionary commander, is
redisposing his entire force as
a result of today's clash with
Carranzistas at Carrizal. ac
cording to report j from the
field tonight. Heavy forces,
ready for immediate action,
are being concentrated at
NaiuiiU'ipa. 2SU miles south of
the border and at t'olonia Dub
lan. ll'll miles south. Dispatch
es said also that American
scouting parties have penetrat
ed the Sant-i Clara Canyon,
about ".ri miles directly east of
Namiiiiipa.
SAN ANTONIO. Tex.. June
"1. General Funstou said to
night no orders changing the
situation would be issued to
General Pershing or to Gener
al Bell until be had received,
the official report from Gener
al Perching
!:
1
1
'
:
Mexican Version Says 17 of
Pershing's Scout Patrol Are
Captured; 40 Mexicans Killed
CANON
THREATEN
i
i
.
U
( OLUMBUS. June 21. Cnr
ranzistas are mounting artill
ery on the hills above Cruces
Canyon, according to apparent
ly reliable reports Mere tonight
Command of this canyon,
which stretches .for about 12
miles between El Valle and
Namiquipu and through which
passes the, American motor
trail, would enable the Mexi
cans to menace General Persh
ing's supply, trains. It is be
lieved that it is at this point
that shiping. which a recent
message from Lieut. Colonel
D. C. Cabell said was possible,
is most greatly feared.
TRAINLGADS OH
SUPPLIES it
RUSHED TO
mm
Two Trains a Day And AutO
Trucks Now Storing Mill-
f.r p , f-j, p j
l0nT P Vf" 4 J II
StuflS For Men And Horses
EXPEDITION HAS ' EL PAS0 Tex- June 21- American and Carranza troops fought a bloody
FOOD FOR 60 DAYS battle ay only a few hours after President Wilson 6.000 word rebuke yes-
; terday to General Carranza had gone forward to Mexico City. With which
Thousands) Of CaiTanZlStaS side victory rested is not known.
Reported In Hills South Of i The engagement took place on the Santo Domingo Ranch near the Mexi
JuareZ. EI PaSO Is Heavily jean town of Carrizal, which is nine miles southwest of Villa Ahumada. the
Guarded
(Bv Review Leased Wire.)
EL PASO. June 21. Shipments of
supplies fi'jm Juarez to General Per-
ciiin. ot r'uuas f?r.-iniloa over thi Mex
ico Northwestern Railroad have been
given added impetus in the last few
davs without a suggestion of inter-
ference from the Carranza authorities.
Officials here see in this fact an indi-
cation that the Mexican attitude is
not 'j warlike as it has appeared to
be.
Each day has seen at least one
trainload of food and supplies des-
patched southward.
A train, which left here yesterday.
arrived safely at Casas Grandes this
morning, another was loaded and de-
parted for that fjint this afternoon.
As a result of these activities. Gen-
' ' """" ""e!-
, ... , t , ,.,;, ,, hu full tone for
I sixty days.
In the last two weeks the Quarter- au American. J. C. Huppel, returning- bound also in tiiat direction. At sun
master's Department here has gotten t0 the border from the interior, down the soldiers off duty were loit
2,r0t),0l0' pounds of oats and a large brought to El Paso the news that he vring about the streets, while the
supply 'jf hay to the Colunia Dublan had seen a number of Mexican 'dead civilians Hft behind sat on their diior
base by way of the Mexico North- along the Mexican Central railroad steps to enioy the cool of evening
western. A large portion of this has track at Villa Ahumada. and had been- . noticeable feature was the gaietr
gone forward since the situation be- told that there had been an encounter of SOme of the officers. Although
came critical. The oats supply will with the "gringoes." , WPr ttle onT a,.0,10jc d.'ink p""rr.
feed General Pershing's animals for Blame Americans mitte.l ., he sold in Juarez, there w?s
sixty ''"V8- u,... ) General Gonzales's first step af'er considerable drinking going oa. K.u
Hundreds More Horses. 'ronfirming the news was to Issue a ,",v " '" officers who h.d see-i
from the expeditionary base at Col- .,,,. ,., , i,M!h rt-nl amnaii-nlnc for rr...
umbus. N. M.. a steady stream of
motor truck trains has poured south
in the last few days carrying food,
forage, supplies, ammunition and
equipment. In addition several hun
dred remounts which have been con
centrated here for emergency purpos
es, have been sent to General Per
shing's cavalry troops in the last
seventy two hours.
Enemy Near Juarez.
On the ther hand, reports in El
Paso that several thousand Carranza
soldiers have been concentrated on
the hills south of Juarez, were given
color by the presence in the Mexican
town of a number .if strange officers
who came into Juarez on horseback.
Their troops are said to be living in ,., known. Quiet was maintained,
troop trains alMit ten miles south of ,wev.r, jn view of General Hell's
the town on the line of the Mexican frw,u,.nt admonitions that his soldiers
National Railway. Accompanying the (.ou tap rar( of any situation that
officers were two American nenros. WOuld arise. While awaiting inst rue
both wearing Carranzista nnilltrms. tions from headquarters at San An
They bore themselves as soldiers, but tonio. General Bell kept his entire
Milnmml nvuuivn iinuwom to mips- ...... I- .. 1 ; ...... Cn. in.'l.nl l.r
tlons as to the antecedents. . giving
rise to a belief that hev are desert-
ers from General Pershing's com-
mAnil i
El Paso continued calm tnirht.
General Geo. Bell. Jr . announcing that
everv militarv preparation had been
cnmnleteH and ureine Deonle to re-
main 'in their homes during any pos-
(Continued on page two) I
General Bell Admits Skirmish At Carrizal, 90 Miles South Of
El Paso, But Doubts If Americans Were Taken Prisoners
Casualties Not Yet Known. Mexicans Boast Machine
Gun Surprised Americans Who '"Started The Fight""
(By Review Leased Wire.) -SAN
ANTONIO. Tex.. June 21. Severe looses on both sides, is the r;--sult
of a tight bt.vcn I'vuC Sta'es troops ami MeCcuii soldi. -r lo.ia
at Carrizal, nine miles south "jf Ahumada. The Americans in the eugae
nient were a detachment of the Tenth Cavalry, a negro organization, and
a force of Carranza troops under command of General Felix (,'jnicz. w flu
was killed in the tight.
General Pershing had been unable to get to General Funston late to
night any report of the engagement but there appeared no reason to
doubt the report from Mexican sources that a serious ugageu:ent had
taken place. Instead of the tension being broken by the clash, it was
keyed still higher tonight and there appeared no probability that it
would be lessened until the official report li'jiu General Pershing was re-
eived or until official news of undisputted aggression by the same Mex
ican troops is received. General Funston said he would send to special
orders t'o General Bell, commanding
' until lie had received official news.
The Mexican commander at Juerez. General Francisco Gonzales, in
: sisted that the American command er precipitated the fight by tiring on
the bearers of a white flag whj were moving forward to parley. A re
', port brought to El Paso late today by an American indicated that the
Americans had been led into an ambus'-ade by the use of a white flag.
The meagre details ,r the tight rt reived by General Funston included
the facts that General Felix Gomez, commanding the Mexuaus, was
among the killed, that the casualties on both sides were cousiderabl
and the intimation that the Americans had fallen back.
It was regarded as not at all improbable that already General T:sh
j ing may have taken steps to even the sjre. Many officers at depart-
n,Pnt headquarters believed th.-it if he had ot already sent a heavy force
towan,s Ahumada. he would do so on receipt of the news and the know-
ledge of the mini her of men he has and their Conditions and state of pre-
naredness left little room to doubt the drastic punishment he would mere
out to General Trevino s troops unle ss ordered tt hold back.
Mexican field headquarters in northern Chihuahua. The number of dead.
American or Mexican, was not definitely known here tonight, but nearly a
core of General Pershing's troops are said to have been killed and the Mexi
cans are said to have lost more than two score. Seventeen American are
declared by Mexican official to have been captured and to have been hurried
to Chihuahua City under adequate guard. A machine gun used by the Mexi
.
can ' thought to have done heavy execution.
The Americans engaged are thought Geneveo Rivas. who commanded the
to have been members of a troop from 1 Mexicans after their leader.. General
the Tenth Cavalry, a negro regiment. Gomez, was slain. General Gonzalez
returning from a scouting trip to Gu- also gave the Mexican explanation of
man. The size of the Mexican f.irce. how the two forces came in contact,
whose commander. General Felix Go- Juarez Warlike,
mez. was killed, is not known. i Warlike activity was first noticed
News Of Clash D;'Jvrd at the railway yard, where a string
Xewa of the battle was received in ' f freight cars lay coupled to several
jarPZ Pary this afternoon hy Geiier- day coat-hen that bore the number of
, Kranciso Gonzales. Cprrai.r.i com- tin. arn v corps of the north, l-ate in
nir.nder of t lie military -.on of the the afternoon a rather large hody of
miner. r or some reas .n or oiner,
,..!.... i . .-.
(ret until late in the afternoon. vhn
'.., ' , ,
American commander. He charged
that the American troops fired first garrison routine, anpeared jubilant
on the Mexicans and that their shots ovt the prospei-t of war. The older
were directed at a courier who had officers, when the chance of a peace
just presented to them a request that able solution was mentioned, would
they retire. answer "oiata" (may it he so .
American army officers declared ah- Xo instance of any attempt to nio-
solute disbelief tonight in General lest anv American was reported dur-
Gonzales' assertions. The opinion ing day ti"'e. After dark no Ameri-
was expressed that if the Americans cn is believed .to have remained in
fired on the Mexicans thev did so he- Jnr'j!.
cause it was necessary. General Tre- Still Optimistic,
vino's recent warning to Genera) "This shows how dangerous it is
Pershing not to send his troops east. to brig American and Mexican
south, or west of their positions was r,M)ps jn ,-onti-t" s.U.I Mexican Con
recalled. ,, Harris tonight. "But it need not
Excitement spread in El Paso as to wsr mnv hf. trPRtPl :ls
extras were issued and the news be- ,.. ir,-iAont i Em n;i on-
in the meantime, however, word
came from Juarez that all was quiet,
although the news of the hattle was
vlHniiiiriinil tliftro
At an earlr hour tonight the only
details of the engagements received
here came from the Mexican side of
the river. General Gonzales said that
his information was transmitted to
him from Villa Ahumada br Colonel
at El Paso, or to General Pershing
.vixu an cavalry pass. fl tnroilgh the
. .u
filled with women and children wer-i
fart 'had wearied of the monoionv of
, i,.i ... , ..,
iinfstic."
Consul Garcia said he would spend
he nicht in Juarez, explaining that
n'icht do more good there than on
the American side.
"You can denv." he added, "that 1
ni coing to close the constitute in
K,,r"!':v f(r 1 hav rixo nn urh
orders."
Although the street car service
from Fi Paso to Juarez has been fr-
ourntiy stooped at night when trouble
'"" imminent, as two nights ae.
'h U-affte continued a usual thjs
evening At the international bridjes
there w-" no sign of excitement.
(Continued on Pate Twn )
