Troops Face Each Other Across? Rio Gtande Awaiting Battle Command
HARRISBURG t|l§il|l TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 143
WILSON AWAITS REPORT CONFIRMING
BATTLE IN WHICH 26 ARE KILLED BEFORE
ASKING CONGRESS TO DECLARE WAR
12 AMERICANS
AND FOURTEEN
MEXICANS DIE
Cert. Gomez, Carranza Commander Attacks Detachment of
Pershing's Force at Carrizal After It Is Lured Into
Trap by Flag of Truce; Helpless Men in Ditch Are
Sprayed With Bullets by Machine Gun; Seventeen
Captured; Reported They Will Be Hanged
HURRIEDLY QUERY STATES ON NUMBER OF
NATIONAL GUARD REGIMENTS MOBILIZED
Confirmation of Fight Nof Expected Until Late; Will Take
Survivors of Attacked Patrols Hours to Reach Persh
ing's Base; Presumed Reinforcements Have Been
Sent to Scene of Fighting; No Marching Orders Yet
For Guard; War Appears Close
F1 Paso. June 22. —The Americans lost 12 dead including their
commander, and 17 prisoners, while 14 Mexicans were killed and 30
wounded in the battle of Carriza! according to the official announce
ment to-day of the Mexican consulate.
The consulate announcement said complete details have been re
ceived from A ilia \huniada. I lie Americans removed their wound
ed with them. The name of the commander still is unknown. The
bodies of the American dead were counted as they lav on the field
of battle.
The Mexicans claimed they captured twenty horses and twenty
rifles at Larrizal.
Washington. June 22. —N0 reason for a change in policv toward
Mexico is seen by the \\ ashington government in Mexican accounts
of the clash at Carrizal between American and Carranza troops.
Until a report come> from General Pershing there will be no
decision but President \\ ilson is said to view the fight as an incident
lor which subordinate commanders probablv were responsible and
not as an act likely to precipitate general hostilities.
Claim Americans Responsible
An official communication from the Mexican foreign office, an
nouncing the fight and the capture of seventeen Americans and seek
ing an explanation of the presence of United States soldiers in that
part of Mexico far from their base was presented t ; Secretary Lan
ding to-day by Eliseo Arrcdondo. the Mexican amba-sador-des'ignatc.
It said an interpreter employed as a guide by the American force
declared the American commander was responsible for the en
counter.
l rom the tone as well as the contents of this communication
officials drew the impression that Carranza desired to disclaim re
sponsibility for the affair and make it plain that no attempt had been
made to cany out his threat to undertake expulsion of the Ameri
can expedition by force of arms.
Further information regarding the activities for peace of
foreign diplomats at Mexico City reached the State Department dur
ing the day. From the same sources it was learned that Carranza
was exerting every effort to a\oid a break with the United States
and at the same time to restrain belligerent demands of some of his
own advisers.
War Department officials believe
that if seventeen American soldiers
actually are in the hands of the Mexi
cans, they will be surrendered at the
first opportunity. A demand for their
immediate release would be one of the
THE WEATHER
Forecasts till 8 p. m.. Friday—For
Harrlsbarg and vicinity: Fair
to-nlght and Friday: aomevrhat
warmer Friday.
For Eastern Pennsylvania! Fair
to-night and Friday; slowly ris
ing temperature Friday; moder
ate northwest winds becoming
variable.
River
The >u«iuehnnna river and all Its
branches will fall or remain near
ly stationary. A stage of alMrut
KO feet Is Indicated for Harris
burg Friday morning.
General Conditions
The dlsturhnnee that was central
over the Ohio Valley. Wednesday
morning, moved rapidly eastward
and passed off the Middle Atlan
tic roast Wednesday afternoon. It
caused showers In the Ohio Val
ley and Tennessee In the Middle
Atlantic and «onthern >ew Eng
land states and along the east
ern border of the tireat I.akes In
the lost twenty-fonr hours.
The high pressure area from the
I Pper Mississippi Valley now cov
ers the Lake Region, the Ohio
Valley and the Middle Atlantic
Mates: It has eaused n general
fall of 2 to 12 degrees In tem
perature east of the Ohio river.
Temperatures have risen In the
Plains Mates and over the re
gion of the <-reat Lakesi else
where temperature changes have
been mostly small. Freeslng tem
perature occurred In Nevada and
frost In I tah this morning.
Tempera tore: R a. m.. 00.
*nn: Rise*. 4:37 a. sets, 7:37
p. m.
Moont Rises, II iM p. m.
River Mane: R.S feet above low
water mark.
V esterday's Weather
Highest temperatorr, <l3
Lsnnl temperature, sr.
Mean temperature. U I
Korail tenaperat ore, T3,
RV CARRIER* ft CEXTJ 1 WEEK.
SINGLE C OPIES 2 I E.\T9.
! first steps taken by the United States
government.
i! ar .. ,h " K° v ernment has no official
information of its own whatever re
i ~'l r , 5 the Carrlzal fight. As a courier
V- naws wo,, M have to ride some
■ Prnkin* ! nUe , s to ,cat "
I ershing s headquarters, the War De
partment may not have a report be
fore to-morrow.
Action \\ on Id Ik Prompt
a i le . rf iJ Vh , 0 sav ' the President to
da> sot the impression that he is de
w if- d ? s P' te a " efforts to
prevent it. war with Mexico should
, aC " On of " ,he rnl,Pd p,a <es
would be prompt und on a scale of
considerable magnitude. It would not
be a war of conquest, but Mr. Wilson
is said to be prepared, if necessarv to
use the maximum available military
strength of th- nation for a short Tle
';ampalKn to re-establish order
and a stable government in Mexico as
well as to permanently insure protec'-
1 a°v foravs American border from out-
Hakor In Conference
Secretary Baker conferred with
President Wilson on the basis of re
ports given out by Mexican enm
nia"d?re at 'he border and trans
mitted to the State Department.
with th r » vvf e? S ry Lans,n « wa * closeted
sr.;,:: ,h «
Seeking Giiardsmcti Available
No explanation for these confer
f !'• was learned, how.
with li «Jl ee * raph wlres wer e hot
with Inquiries sent to various gov
ernors seeking reports of the number
of national guard regiments mobilized
and available for Immediate service
i Officials said President Wilson would
av.alt a definite report on what has
happened from General Pershing It
was not expected until late to-dav as
ithe town of Carrlzal, where the fight
■ int was said lo have occurred, is sixtv
miles or more trom General Pershing's
advance base at Xamlquipa.
Wllmmi's Policy tnehanged
At the White House it was said the
I Presidents policy was unchanged for
(Continued on Pa*e 7)
HARRISBURG, PA., THURSDAY EVENING, 1 JUNE 22, 1916.
PUTTING THE "ROOKIES" THROUGH AT THE ARMORY
r w' "-*M A ,j g 1 tsff ?$k tarsia s
HUTCHISON AND
FINNEY GO UP
Captain Jerry J. HartmanMade
Commander Company
K, York
Colonel Joseph B. Hutchison, of
Ilarrlsburg. commander of the Eighth
Infantry and senior colonel of the line
in the National Guard, was to-day ap
pointed a brigadier general and as
signed to general headquarters. Col.
Hutchison is ill at Chambersburg and
will be unable to go to Mt. Gretna
with his command. He has a long
record of service in the Guard as an
officer of units of the Eighth regi
ment and has been a colonel since
1902, having been raised to that grade
while on strike duty with the regi
ment. He was a major in the Spanish
war service of the regiment.
Lieutenant Colonel Maurioe E. Fin
ney, of this city, also a veteran officer
of tho Guard, was appointed colonel
and assigned to command the Eighth.
Colonel Kinney was formerly com
mander of Company I, Eighth In
fant ry.
Captain Thomas R. Jones, com
manding Company K. Eighth In
fantry. York, resigned to-day and
Captain Jerrj J. Hartman, Harris
fcurg, formerh a commander of Cam
pany l>. Eighth Regiment, Harris
burg. was appointed to succeed him.
Other appointments of officers to
[Continued on I'ase 7]
TELEGRAPH HEADS
WAR RELIEF FUND
Chamber of Commerce and Ro
tary Club May Lead Move
ment For Soldiers' Families
Within the next 48 hours the mem- j
; bers of the National Guard of this city!
' will respond to the call of their coun
try and proceed to the mobilization
: camp at Mt. Gretna. These men are
.'enlisted in the Governor's Troop and
j Companies D and 1 of the Eighth reg
iment in addition to the engineer corps
and the quartermaster's department,
and the division brigade and regimen
i tal staffs. It will mean over 300 men
when the se\ eral commands shall
iiave been recruited to full war
! strength.
During the absence of these men.'
many of whom are husbands and
fathers and the support of aged moth
ers, it ought to be the business of Har- i
risburg olticially and through its in- j
dividual citizenry to provide ways and 1
means for the proper relief of any j
(Continued on Pago 7)
IIKKAK UP THEFTS
Thefts of iron and steel are being
; broken up at the Central Iron and Steel
Work£ by the vigilance of the com
pany's police. Five boys, living in the
lower end of the city, were sent to the
House of Detention to await trial at
f.ie Juvenile Court at a hearing before ,
Alderman Caveny last evening. Eleven
■ boys have been sent to the House of \
Detention on the same charge within
the nast two days. The following boys
were sent last night: Joseph Dunlap,
Lawrence Finne- George Carlile, John
Shearer and Joseph Eutty.
STOI.F. FI.OWKHSt. CHARGE
William Sheaffer, aged 21 years, who
' said he resides at 1204 Walnut street,
was arrested at noon to-day by Spe
clal Officer P. 1.. McPherson, of Reser
voir Park, on a charge of larceny of |
I flowers. Several workmen testified at
a hearing this afternoon that they
; caught Sheaffer cutting roses and oth
er blooms. He was held In default of
payment of a fine.
HIHHA.VDS AT FKOXT
Down in Steelton two women are
watching the dispatches from the bor
der with more than ordinary Interest.
They are llrs Henry Bouders. wife of .
Sergeant Rowderx of Troop H. First i
I'nlted States Cavalry, and Mrs. Charles s
.Souders, wife of First Sergeant Souders -
in Troop E, of the same regiment. Both ji
women are visiting Steelton relaUveu. j]
FREE MARRIAGE
SOLDIERS WHO
Recorder Lent: Goes to Front With Old Man Mars and Kid
Cupid; Here's Your Chance Mr. Guardsman!
If you, Mr. Soldier-Man. now can't
.; clinch for all time that much mooted
question between the Only Girl anil
yourself, it won't be because James E.
I.entz. Dauphin county's recorder of l
. deedr. and bo?s of the marriage license 1
i bureau, hasn't offered to do all he 1
. can to boost along the good work.
Here's the recorder's offer:
"To every enlisted man in the ser-1
vice of L'flcle Sam who takes out a,
j'marriage license between now and!
'noon Saturday with the expectation of
getting married before he leaves for
SOUNDS DEATH
KNELL OF MOOSE
Declining Nomination, Roose
velt Says Its Mission Is
Fulfilled
Special to the Telegraph
Oyster Bay, N. Y„ June 22.—When
Colonel Theodore Roosevelt last even
ing signed his letter to the Progres
sive national committee declining the j
nomination for the Presidency and';
urging the election of Justice Hughes,
he at the same time signed the death
warrant for the Progressive party, j
which he maintains has accomplished
the chief objects for which it was
formed.
To make the run for the Presidency '
and to keep up the party as a fighting
force, he says, can have but one re- >
I suit—insure re-election of President
Wilson and four years more of the |
spineless policies which have made '
American diplomacy a byword abroad
| and a thing of regret at home and j
brought the nation to the edge of war 1
1 while unprepared to even defend its I
j border against bandit raids.
Results Unequal to Risk
Some minor reforms, he admits, j
migl, be secured by continuing the!
party and making the fight, but these]
results could not warrant the party !
or its candidate taking the responsi
bility of returning President Wilson
to the White House with the conse
[Continued on Page 9]
HA.VD CAUGHT IJF PRESS
John Nye. aged 1G years, employed j
as a pressman at the Harrlsburg Bag
and Box Factory, 5-7 North Cameron
| street, was treated at the Harrlsburg
Hospital to-day for a lacerated and
fractured right band. While at work
this morning his hand was caught in
the press.
TO ST WD HI I*. R. R.
A poll of 10,000 Pennsylvania Rail- j j
| road shop employes In Altoona to-day, j
showed 95 per cent, volunteers, who j |
promised to stand by the company in [ •
the event of a strike. I i
OUT DKtiRKRS AT I'OR\KI,I.
Thomas Henry Anions, Jr.. 309 South '
Fourteenth street. Harrlsburg. and Iva ,
John Ston»», 205 Pinp street. Steelton. i
received their degrees of bachelor of j I
arts and mechanical engineer, respec- • '
lively. In the annual commencement ]
exercises of Cornell University. Ithaca,
[New York, held yesterday.
j the field of duty, I'll present gratul
| tously with a license."
j All the applicant needs to do, Re
| cordcr Lentz declared, is to bring his
i enlistment papers along to the record
er's office when he calls with his bride.
"Why do I make that offer?" smiled
| Recorder Lentz in reply to a natural
! question. "Why I think that might be
a little patriotic boost, that's all. And
i then, too." grinned the county official,
I "we'll be going in for future prepared
ness—even if it be a generation
hence!"
PENN HIGHWAY
ROUTE DECIDED
N\ ill Be Great Aid to Nation's
Preparedness; Select
Marker
As an aid to preparedness, govern- ;
ors of the William Penn Highway As
sociation, meeting in the William
Penn Hotel, Pittsburgh, yesterday, de
i elded upon a route for the Pennsyl
vania division of the ocean-to-ocean
highway, to be known In this State as
I the William Penn Highway.
The main highway will run from
Philadelphia through Pittsburgh to
I the Ohio state line, A meeting will be
j held in Philadelphia within thirty
days to determine details of the mat
, ter.
Leaving Philadelphia and reaching
j Berks county, the highway will pass
'through Pottstown, Heading and Wer-
I nersville. In Lebanon county It will j
pass through Lebanon and Annvllle to j
| Dauphin county, where it will touch
j Hershey, Harrlsburg and Clark Ferry,
I In Perry county it will have on its
\ route Amity Hall, Newport and Mil- |
lerstown.
Through Mifflin county, the route I
includes Lewistown, Mount Union, Mill !
Creek. Fater Street and Birmingham. I
Tyrone, Bellwood and Altoona are on |
the route in Blair county; Loretto, I
Ebensburg and Johnstown in Cambria
county; Armagh and Blairsville in In
rContinued on Page #]
Kolb Leaves Million to
Presbyterian Institutions
By Associated ! J ress
Philadelphia, June 22. One million '
dollars is bequeathed to Presbyterian
charitable and educational institu
tions In the will of Charles W. Kolb
probated to-day. Mr. Kolb was vice
president of the Kolb Baking Company
and a brother of Colonel Louis J. Kolb
The testator was a widower and left
no children.
The public beouests are as follows
Presbyterian Board of Home Missions
1200,000; Presbyterian Board of For
eign Mission*. $200,000; Presbvterian
Orphanage. $100,000: Presbvterian Home
for Aged Couples and Aged Men SIOO
- Christ Home for Homeless and
Destitute Children. SIOO,OOO Saniarlisn
Hospital. $100,000; Children's Country
Week Association, $100,000; Tnmnle Col'- !
]t , g :-i n Wk ooo v. n '" rt P, rlvate bequests I
Of $200,000 each are mads to Mr. Kolb's
two sisters, b*r* E. and y, w***.
16 PAGEcS
i TROOPS OF BOTH
SIDES AWAITING
BATTLE ORDERS
Belief Prevails on American
Soil That Troops Will
Take Juarez
MEXICANS SWAGGERING
Boast That They Whipped the
Hated Gringo in Carrizal
Fight
I (By International News Service)
Ei Paso. Texas, June 22. l
n-1 fantry, cavalry and artillery concen
-1 rated on both sides of the Rio Grande
j to-day awaited the order of their com
j manders that would send them into
| battle. On the American side the be-
I lief prevailed that if the report of
| Mexican treachery in yesterday's fisht-
I ii»K near Carrizal were confirmed
M'nited States troops would advance on
Jiiaiez before nightfall, take the his
toric Mexican town, and continue
; their march through the desert to
| Chihuahua City to rescue the Amer
i leans taker prisoners in the Carrizal
conflict.
According to unofficial advices re
ceived here the Mexicans have sent
enced to death by hanging the seven
teen American soldiers of the Tenth
Cavalry captured at Carrizal. The
| s<ime reports assert that the Mexicans.
' while carrying a flag of truce, opened
Are upon the United States soldiers,
causing heavy casualties.
From the yellow banks of the river,
[Continued on Page 6]
ipj" 1 ' '"Tfr w 'nfc"
£ KEPHART ON BULL MOOSE TICKET fy
Harrisburg. Harmon M. Kephart, Republican can- |
didate for State Treasurer, to-day won the Bull Moose nom- 1
ination by drawing off a tie with J. Verner Clark, the Wash- I
ington nominee. They had the same number of votes. Both \
were represented by proxy at the office of Deputy Secretaiy J
I of the Commonwealth Godcharles. Over forty ties were I
II also drawn. j
j CALL FOR WOMEN RELIEF VOLUNTEERS I
j l Harrisburg. Call was issued to-day by Mrs. Charles *
( j E. Snyder, chairman Women's Division for National Pre
< paredness for volunteers to help in eight lines of war relief <
work, including the relief of needy families of soldiers. '■
! Address Mrs. Snyder of Mrs. J. B. Mersereau, 1904 North i
Second street.'
Harrisburg. Dillsburg advices late this afternoon ( L
stated that J. Haldeman O Connor, 13 North Front street. |
was injured when his motorccr crashed through a !
■ wire fence near that town. Other members of Mr. O'Con-1
« I who were riding with him were uninjured. •
1 | PENNSYLVANIA STEEL TO PAY VOLUNTEERS < >
l Harrisburg. Over the signature of Quincy Bent, gen- ; [
! e...: manager, the Pennsylvania Steel Company to-day no- j
j • tified its employes that any who volunteer for war will con- 1
I tinue theii wages and give them their positions when they '
! return. ®
Field Headquarters, June 21, via Radio to Columbus,'
N. M., June 22.—Carran/a troops have been reported close
to the southern end of the American lines. General Pershing 1 ►
is maintaining strong outposts in every direction '
and taking every precaution to prevent trouble arising. • i
The American troops, after three months of camping arc in '
* H. E. Householder was slightly injured, and Martin »
! Hamilton, colored, both of Steelton, seriously hurt in an , >
4 • automobile accident in Steelton this afternoon, when the >
. former's auto collided headon with a motor truck,
j I two wounded in a fight here to-day between special police '
i horses for the United States government, moved eastward
( ' ° jfarrVaite I.Tceriaea laauV</ alnc«VatV ' yV«teriia j ineludei Harry Rhlne
■mlth Mnrph.v and l.rnn Ellaabctb Beck, crltyi Tbomaa F,l«i«od Hoffman
and Knima Hoac Moreland, cltyi Frank l.auiihrail. Fayette county, and
j tiertrude Hleka, Falrcbnncc! Arden Wfnlrl Kmerlck and Maude Rilltb
Watta. eltyi Albert Kdmr Fleck, ninilhrnn Centre, nnd Alt* Mac Jaeobv.e
i .sblppcnaburar; Perey Hartley Nell nnil Kuril Hell l..;ilntin. city) U niter \
C* AiMlernun and Kdna May Faanacht, city I Kllaa H. Finn em, Sterlln, and
• Ivy Klton HofTnirtn, I'oml'h \ nlleys Norman «. J. Ileiniticr .lulu l.*ltier
1 Wert*. \\ ornile> MIIIITB t Howard HI wood Kohlcr .mil ICiitli HOMII- Flair V
f l.ancaHier; Preaton «. I-rye ami Until I.coin Sltterley, Marvatlll...
It. H. Huaer and Margaret May «««fr, cltyi llohert W. l.andla and Alice I, JEP
C|Mnut, Lower ftwatara townablpi Kdgar ti. Keever and Sarah E. Baldorf ?
Cicltn C'krlotopber H. Ohelm and LJlllan Roeaael, city.
H' vV"" 'ii mGj
Cm EDITION
RECRUITS GET
FIRST TASTE OF
SOLDIER'S LIFE
Scores of "Rookies" Put
Through Paces in Park and
Yard About Armories
MEN REPORT FOR DUT*
Martial Scenes Help Boast En
listments; Details Completed
For March to Gretna
If you were in th 6 neighborhood o*
Second and Forster or Sixth and Stat !
streets to-day you couldn't havu
avoided hearing something like this:
"Keep yer head UP!"
"Aw, turn yer toes OUT—OUT. [
tell ye!"
"DON'T apologize for yer feet I •
gazin' at "em so much!"
"Now, keep yer eyes to the FHON
—them 'skirts' ain't lookin' at YOU!"
These formed the staccato notes t >|
the mirtinl chori's that. soundelj
throughout Harrisburg; the "rookies';
of Companies D and I of the Eight'ij
Regiment and the? Governor's 'l'roo >
got their initial tryouls all day. Th »
deeper note was struck l>y the stead/
tramp, tramp of marching men. tlia
click-click of the rifle breech-blocKa
and the grim music of cartridge flips.
Harrlsburg's State guardsmen re
ported to-day for service under Uncle
Sam.
