I Ploday's Metal Prices Tv a tf ivX'iV- SL"f W-VV -W-vX 1 4 P. M. OTY EDITION I III
i ., mi ri p uinnjn Sicl Jul ill U J5L
I NS?' BlXr2fe?iVer' 65C: V X- L W W C7 'WW T V WW WEATHER-Utah: Fair Tonight 11
M lead, $6 85c spelter, $12.25; copper, f - and Friday; Local Frost In West Por- 1 1
$27.5029.25. J tlon Tonight: Warmer Tonight. J ffl
1 IL ; FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. , : ' I 1 1
li Fyf Year-No. 149. Prce Fve Cent8 QGDEN CITY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, JUNE 22, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at tht Postofflce, Ogden, Utih.'
kj . . . - . . i BPfi
Confirmation of Killing of American Soldiers in a Fight by a Troop of the Tenth Cavalry With Carranza Soldiers 17 Colored Troopers Made Prisoners National Guard 1 1
i mv i
-. v of Three States Ordered to Entrain for Mexico Juarez Being Evacuated by Mexican Troops. v ', '', '"'. 1
. , ' .i ll' f
rERSHING MAINTAINING STRONG
OUTPOSTS JNJMY DIRECTION
Carranza Troops Reported Close to Southern End of Ameri
can Lines Clash May Occur at Any Moment U. S.
Troops Reported in Magnificent Condition and Fit
for Any Sort of Fight Depredations at Vari
ous Points Reported Orders Issued to
) Hasten Mobilization in All States
f Lansing Sends Message to
Latin Republics.
Washington, June 22. Orders to the national guards of
Missouri, Kansas and .California to be ready to entrain for the
Mexican border as soon as possible were dispatched today by
the war department.
These guardsmen will be the first to go in response to
General Funston's call for additional men to strengthen his
border patrol. Officials would not indicate when marching
orders might go to the contingents of other states.
Los Angeles, Cal., June 22 Brigadier-General Wan-
kowskic, commanding the first brigade, National Guard of
1 California, said today his troops were ready to entrain at any
time. He said he was awaiting orders to move. Recruiting is
being continued.
j San Antonio, Texas, June 22. General Funston has
sent a message to General Pershing urging him to expedite his
j report of the Carrizal fight.
Naco, Arizona, June 22.-. One American soldier was
killed and three others injured here early today when William
i Humphrey, a half breed Mexican employed as a guard at the
1 waterworks, opened fire upon members of Company E., Four
teenth United States infantry as the guard was being changed.
, Field Headquarters, June 21, via Radio to Columbus,
; N. M., June 22. Carranza troops have been reported close
;, to the southern end of the American lines. General Persh-
; ing is maintaining strong outposts in every direction and tak-
' ing every precaution to prevent trouble arising. The Ameri-
' can troops, after three months of campaigning, are in magni-
, cent form for any sort of work.
Washington, June 22. Secretary Lansing today sent a
memorandum to the diplomatic representatives of South and
: Central American nations, reviewing the situation existing be-
tween the United States and Mexico and announcing that, if
hostilities should eventuate, the purpose of the United States
would be to defend itself against further invasion and not to in
tervene in Mexican affairs.
Washington, June 22 No reason
or a change in policy toward Mexico
Is seen by the Washington govern
ment in Mexican accounts of the clash
at Carrizal yesterday between Ameri
can and Carranza troops. Until a re
port comes from General PerBhing
there will be no decision but President
i Wilson is said to view the fight as
an incident for which subordinate
commanders probably were respon
sible and not as likely to precipitate
: general hostilities.
An official communication from the
v Mexican foreign office, announcing
I) the fight and tho capture of seventeen
f Americans and seeking an explanation
of the presence of United States sol
I dlcrs In that part of Mexico, far from
their base, was presented to Secretary
Lansing today by Ellseo Arredondo,
the Mexican ambassador designate.
From tho tone, as well as tho con-
tents, of tills communication, officials
drew the impression that Carranza de
f sired to disclaim responsibility for the
affair and make It plain that no at
, tempt had been made to carry out his
, uiem lo uuueriajie cxijuisiuh w- "-
I : American expedition by force of arms.
' Carranza Trying to Avoid Break.
Further Information regarding the
' activities for peace of foreign diplo
mats at Mexico City reached the state
department during t,he day. From the
p same sources it was learned that Car
; fanza was exerting every effort to
avoid a break with the United States
:' and at the same time to restrain bel
.. Hgeront demandB of some of his own
-I advisers.
!lf War department officials believe
t that if seventeen American soldiers
., actually are in the hands of the Mexl
i tans thev will be surrendered at the
first opportunity. A demand for their
. 'mediate release would be one or
the first Hteps taken by the United
?! s. tates government.
VK' rl So far the government has no offl-
clal information of its own whatever
J :' Regarding the Carrizal fight.
1 ' President Is Determined.
Tf ; Callers who saw the president to
,4 i yT got the impression that ho is
: Jstermined that, if despite all efforts
4 , prevent it, -sear with Mexico Bhould
come, the action of the United States
would, be prompt and on a scale of
considerable magnitude. Mr. Wilson
is said to be prepared, if necessary,
to use the maximum available military
strength of the nation for a short de
cisive campaign to re-establish order
and a stable government In Mexico.
Washington, June' 22. While the
government, had no official confir
mation early today of Mexican reports
that American and Mexican troops
were In a battle yesteday with heavy
losses on the American side, there
was a stir and a grim purpose about
the war and state departments.
Secretary Baker conferred with
President Wilson and Secretary Lan
sing regarding reports given out by
Mexican commanders at the border.
Afterward Mr. Baker hastened to the
capitol for conferences with the con
gressional military committee chair
men. He submitted to Chairman Hay,
of the house committee, a resolution
authorizing the president to draft na
tional guardsmen willing to take the
federal oath into the regular array im-
.,i(niniv P.lialrman Tlav will call
IllUUIlll.tl," w..-
up the resolution tomorrow.
Officials said President Wilson
would await a definite report of what
has happened from General Pershing.
It was not expected until late today
as the town of Carrizal where the
fighting is said to have occurred, is
sixty miles or more from General Per
shing's advance base at Namlquipa.
President's Policy Unchanged.
At tho White House It was said the
president's policy was unchanged for
the present at least and that Mr. Wil
son had no intention of going beforo
congress immediately.
Stories of the fight conflict seem
to indicate that the Americans were
ambushed and suffered their chief
loss from machine gun fire.
It is presumed General Pershing
promptly dispatched reinforcements to
aid the cavalry detachment.
Secretary Baker said no marching
orders had gone to national guard
units. Nothing could be done, he de
clared, until a report rrom American
sources had been received.
There were no efforts to conceal the
anxiety with which the situation is
viewed. There is enough similarity
among the border reports to convince
them that a serious clash occurred,
whoever may have been the aggressor
and whatever the outcome Tt has
brought war with Mexico so close thai
officials say any hour may see the
conflict in full swing.
Douglas Hears News.
Douglas, Ariz., June 22. News of
the fighting between American and
Mexican troops at Carrizal yesterday
caused no alarm in this vicinity to
day, although details of the engage
ment were eagerly sought.
Several Mexican families living in
Douglas crossed the the Mexican side
during the night on advice of Ives G.
Lelevier, Mexican consul
Agitators Busy in Nogales.
At the headquarters of General T.
F. Davis, in command of the United
States troops In the district of Ariz
ona, it was stated that General Ellas
P. Calles in command of the Mexi
can iroops of Sonora, had sent word
he had reports that Generals Barron.
Torres and other former officers of
the Mexican federal army were at
tempting to arouse the Mexican popu
lation at Nogales, Ariz.
General Calles gave this informa
tion to the United States officers, he
said for their information m making
an Investigation The report was for
warded to Colonel William II Sage, in
command at Nogales
CAPTAIN MOREY IN
COMMAND OF TENTH
Columbus, N M . June 22. Captain
Lewis S. Morey of the Tenth cavalry
is reported to have been in command
of the detachment of American sol
diers which engaged the Mexicans at
Carrizal yesterday He" lefrujcTFell
erico with his troops, it Is believed,
some time during Monday
The de facto troops which for weeks
formed part of the placers formation
that threatened to close In on the puil
tive expedition in the event of any
movement south of Namlquipa, disap
peared last night It is presumed they
are heading for Chihuahua City to ef
fect a junction with Trevlno's main
body from information received here
today.
Coast Recruiting Increasing
San Francisco, June 22 Mobiliza
tion of the national guard of the Pa
cific coast states continued today in
response to President Wilson's call
for men. Oregon has already notified
the war department that its militia is
under canvass and awaiting marching
orders at the mobilization camps. Oth
er western states were moving their
troops toward their rendezvous today
Recruiting was on the increase in
California as a result of the order is
sued yesterday by Adjutant General
C W Thomas to company command
ers to recruit to the minimum war
strength without delay There are
now 3000 guardsmen in California, 34-
oi wnom emiBLuu una b.
Adjutant General C. W. White of
Oregon, while notifying the war de
partment yesterday that his command
was ready, asked for authority to re
cruit four new companies of coast ar
tillery and a new regiment of infan
try. t
One Seattle signal corps company
spent last night under canvas at the
Washington mobilization camp at
American Lake. Other companies
are expected to reach the camp today.
Two Iowa Regiments Ready.
Des Moines, la., June 22 Adjutant
General Guy E. Logan of the Iowa
National Guard, said today that be
fore night possibly two regiments of
the Iowa National Guard would be or
dered to concentrate immediately at
Camp Dodge here. The move, he
said, was decided upon because of re
cent serious developments in the
Mexican situation.
Arizona Taking Precautions.
Nogales, Ariz., June 22. Every pre
caution was being taken here today
by both military and civil authorities
to prevent possible difficulties be
tween American and Mexican resi
dents of tho American town. Some
fears had been expressed as to tho
effect of the news of the engagement
at Carrizal upon the Mexicans, who
compose two thirds of the population
of tho Arizona city.
A trip 20 miles south of the border,
which was to have been made today
by a committee of five, representing
tho business men of Nogales, under
escort of Mexican Consul Delgado,
was abandoned today by the consul.
The trip had been arranged as a
means of proving that no Mexican
troops are being assembled with the
intention of attacking Nogales. The
consul announced, however, that he
had received a telegram from General
P Bllas Calles, military governor of
Sonora, saying that 2,000 soldiers en
route to Cananea to prevent rioting
by 8,000 mining men there, would be
at Lomaa, a railroad Junction four
miles south of Nogales early today.
Augmenting Garrison.
A "battalion of tho Arizona national
guard and a battalion of the Four
teenth United States infantry waB ex
pected lo arrlv here today to aug-
V
r
ment the American garrison and it
was asserted that the town and citi
zens will be amply piotected in any
eventuality, despite the fact that only
a street separates the Arizona and
the Sonora towns.
Other reports received said that
Col. Aguirre, at the head of 800 men
equipped with quick (firing cannon and
35 machine guns, was marching north
along the Cananea-Nogales railroad
with orders to halt at either Naco or :
Del Rio, while General Gomez, with J
between 5,000 and G.000 troops, large
ly cavalry, with twelve field pice3
was at Fronteras approximately 35
miles souui of iDouglas. Most of
Aguirre's machine guns were said to
be in need of repair, while eight of
Gomez's pieces are in a machine shop.
Pershing Reports to Funston.
San Antonio, Tex , June 22 Gen
eral Pershing reported to General
Funston today that he had. not yet re
ceived a report on the fight at Carri
zal, but added, that on information
sent him, he had sent out two squad
rons of the Eleventh cavalry with in
structions to get Into touch with the
troop of the Tenth that was engaged
yesterday by the Mexican forces.
General Funston made it plain that
General Pershing's first report has not
altered the general situation and that
no special orders will be issued until
General Pershing has rendered a re
port in detail of the Carrizal fight and
the incidents that led up to it.
General Pershing said that all his
men had positive orders not to do
anything calculated to precipitate a
fight with troops of the do facto gov
ernment. Although unstated in General Persh
ing's report, officers at department
headquarters draw the inference that
Charlos T. Boyd was iu command of
Troop H., the troop believed to have
been the one engaged at Carrizal.
Special Troop Train Arrives.
Nogales, Arizona, June 22. A spec
ial tro"6p v train bearing a Dattalion
of the Arizona militia and 55 men
of the Fourteenth regular infantry
arrived here today under the com
mand of Major W. K. Jones to rein
force the 1,500 regular troops already
in Nogales. Their arrival greatly re
lieved the tension of the last eighteen
hours, because of persistent rumors
of a Mexican attack in force.
United States Consul Frederick
Simpich requested Mexican Consul
Delgado to wire General Calles to
make strenuous efforts to locate
Charles E. Wiswell, general manager
of the Cananea Copper company last
heard from Sunday.
Mexicans Leave for Cananea.
Nogales, Arizona, June 22. Anxiety
also was relieved on receipt of news
that 2,000 Mexicans at Lomas had de
parted eastward toward Cananea.
Joel Cannack, who came through
from Santa Ana, 12 miles west of Mag.
dalena, today by train, reported that
Mrs J. C. Underwood, wife of the
owner of a mine sixty miles west of
Santa Ana, is trying to make her way
to the border over a circuitous 140
mile mountain route in order to avoid
going through Magdalena. She Is
traveling in a carriage, accompanied
Dy Lr. ii. i. waue, htcu oihusuo
and Harvey Eller.
Underwood Is in Nogales, having
been refused permission to go to his
wife's aid by the Mexican authorities.
oo
AMERICAN IN
MEXMSON
Harloe H. Hamilton of San
Francisco Shot Down by
Bandits and Later Ac
cused of Murder.
San Francisco, June 22. Harloe II.
Hamilton, S3 years old, and well
known in San Francisco, is a prisoner
in tho Mexican military prison at
Oaxaca, south of Mexico City, charged
with murder of which, he says, in a
letter received here and made public
today, he Is innocent. He is accused
of killing two Mexican bandits in
April, 1912.
The letter written from prison June
2, said that he had been in prison
nine days; that the men ho was ac
cused of killing In 1912, had been shot
down by the native legal authorities
after an attack by the bandits on his
father's ranch and that the accusa
tion which brought about his arrest
was preferred by surviving members
of the bandit gang.
At Hamilton's request his case has
been called by telegraph to the at
tention of the California congressional
delegation and of the state department.
oo
Senator Works Excited.
Washington, June 22. Discussion
of the Mexican situation waB preclpi
tated in the senate today by Senator
Works of California who called up his
resolution to authorize intervention,
had it read and gave notice that, un
less Hie foreign relations committee
chairman acted soon, he would move
to take the matter out of his hands.
MEXICAN REPORT
OF ENGAGEMENT
Fourteen Carranzista's Killed
and Thirty Wounded
Twelve Dead Americans
and' Seventeen Cap
tured.. BOTH LOSE LEADERS
General Felix Gomex Killed
Captain Lewis S. Morey of
Tenth Cavalry Loses Life.
El Paso, Texas, June 22. The Amer
icans uho engaged the Carranza sol
diers in battle at Carrizal yesterday
were heavier losers than the Mexicans,
according to reports Issued by the
Mexican consulate in El Paso today.
The Mexican claim is that while
fourteen of their number were killed
and thirty wounded, the Americans
suffered an even dozen killed and lost
seventeen as prisoners. In addition,
they say the Americans had an un
known number of wounded which they
carried off with them.
They point out also that while the
Carranza commander. General Felix
Gomez, lost his life, the American
leader also was killed.
Captain Morey Killed.
Uncertainty regarding the identity
of the commander of the American
troops was believed today to have
been dispatched by a report received
through Columbus. N. M.. that ho was
Captain Lewis S. Morey of the Tenth
cavalry. Captain Morey apparently
started on his mission which has not
been officially explained, from Ojo
Fedcrico, but the exact time is not
known, although it may have been
Monday.
Following the receipt of news of the
Carrizal enoounter, the Juarez garri
son, just across the river from El
Paso, last night began evacuation of
the town. More than half of the gar
rison got out during the early morn
ing and at noon most of the remaind
er were loaded on trains ready to de
part. Juarez Fears Battery.
Evacuation of Juarez was deemed
advisable because a battery of 4.7
inch guns, capable of throwing a GO
pound explosive six miles pointed
their noses threateningly over El
Paso today in the direction of the
Mexican city The southernmost out
skirts of Juarez are not more than
three and a half miles from the bat
tery which could wipe the town off
tho map in an hour's time
SOLDIERS ARE
LEAVINGJUAREZ
City More Than Half Evacu
ated by Carranza Garrison
During Morning Hours.
El Paso, Texas, June 22. Juarez,
the Mexican town across the Rio
Grande from here, was more than half
evacuated at 10 o'clock today by the
Carranza garrison It was officially
reported on this side that three train
loads of soldiers had gone southward
during the early morning, and that
three more trains had been loaded in
preparation for departure.
American army officials expressed
the opinion that evacuation would be
completed during the day, until the
Mexicans were beyond the range of
the American artillery.
General Bell, Instead of going to
Fort Bliss today, remained down town
at the temporary headquarters at the
Toltec club where he lives.
Notwithstanding the preparations
for departure, soldiers remained on
guard at the customs' gate and Gen
eral Gonzales' headquarters, while a
few roamed the streets.
Wireless Station Dismantled,
Dismantling of the Mexican wire
less station was accomplished at noon
while the Carranza baracks, just
across the street from the famous old
Jaurez mission, was stripped of all
equipment. Another trainload of sol
diers left for the south this afternoon.
An American newspaper man, J. C.
Johnson, of Dallas, Texas, who came
here recently and is attached to one
of the local papers, was arrested in
Juarez this afternoon. General Bell
and other officials immediately com
municated with Mexican authorities
requesting his release.
JohnBon was released on receipt of
the requests from the American of
ficials. It was said ho had been
gathering Information of military
value.
SMASHING BLOW
GIVENJIKEY
Arabians Rise in Wrath
Against Executions of Mo
hammedan and Syrian
Notables.
CAPTURE HOLY CITY
Grand Sherif of Mecca Pro
claims Independence Turk
ish Prestige Shaken to
Foundation.
London, June 22, 6:41 a. m. Re
ports have been received here that a
serious uprising against the Turks Is
in progress in Arabia and that the
rebels have captured the holy city
of Mecca.
The London newspapers declare
that the rebellion is certain to have
an important bearing on the war es
pecially as regards the participation
of Turkey.
The Post says:
"The uprising is due to recent
wholesale executions of Mohamme
dan and Syrian notables and well
known religious leaders and also to
the spread In Arabia of a feeling that
the Turks had abdicated their position
as the protector of the Mohammedans
and have become the vassals of Ger
many." Smashing Blow at Turkey.
The Graphic says; ' ""
"The revolt is a smashing' blow at
Turkey and the capture of Mecca is
an event which will shake Turkish
prestige to its foundations."
A Reuter dispatch from Cairo says
the rebels in addition to taking Mecca,
have captured Jlddah, the chief sea
port of Arabia, and Taif, 65 miles,
southeast of Mecca, and have pro
claimed Independence of the Arab3
from Ottoman rule.
Grand Sherif Proclaims Independence
According to this dispatch, the
grand sherif of Mecca, the chief mag
istrate of the holy city, proclaimed his
independence and was supported by
the Arab tribes of tho west and cen
tral parts of the country. He began
operations about June ninth and won
signal success.
It is said the garrisons of Mecca,
Jiddah and Taif. surrendered with the
exception of two small forts at Taif
which aro still resisting. At Jiddah,
45 officers, 1,400 men and six guns
were captured. Medina 24S miles
northwest of Mecca which contains
the tomb of Mohammed is closely be
sieged and all communications to He
las are In tho hands of the grand sher
if. It was stated in London that the
rising in Mecca was preceded ty a
similar insurrection at Kerbela, about
55 miles southwest of Bagdad in Mes
opotamia, which is a sacred city be
cause it contains the tombs of Hus
sein, a grandson of Mohammed. All
the Turks were driven out of Kerbela
The revolt is the outcome of the
so-called Pan-Arab move which has
been gaining impetus since 1913. It
alms at the abolition of alleged Turk
ish misrule, oppression and mal-tax-ation.
at the ejection of the Turks
from the whole of the Arabian penin
sula and at the formation of a great
confederation of Arab tribesmen.
-uu
OLD PROSPECTOR
LOSES HIS LIFE
i
American Mining Man in
Danger of Being Executed
Military Authorities
Investigating.
Douglas, Arizona, June 22. Jim
Parks, an old prospector, was killed,
and Norton Hand, an American min
ing man was taken into custody and
was in danger of being executed by
the Mexican authorities, as the result
of a fight with a number of Mexicans
yesterday, 12 miles weBt of Cumpas,
according to Information brought here
today by American refugees from Na
cozari. 75 miles south.
United States military authorities
who are investigating the report, sent
representations to General P. Elias
Calles, urging immediate sieps 10 in
sure tho safety of Hand.
According to mining men, whose ln
formation apparently was authentic,
Parks and Hand had an encounter
with tho Mexicans yesterday. Two
Mexicans wero said to have been
killed and a number wounded.
Sixteen men from El Tigre mine
reached here early today In automobiles.
RUSSIANS TAKE 1
AUSTRIAN TOWN 1
Great Drive Against Austrians ! i 5
Continues Large Forces J h0 !
! I;
! if
Crown JPrince Army Gains R
! i iw
dun Front. Iillfci
Petrograd, June 22, via London, 7:45 j M , .'
p. m. The war office today announc- I .jw. j
ed the capture of the town of Radautz, la
In Bukowina, 30 miles south of Czerno- w;.
wltz. Kt j
Paris, June 22, 11:30 a. m. After I$i
violent attacks lasting all night the nil
Germans captured front line trenches Bft
between Fumin wood and Ghenols, In EI.
the Verdun sector, according to an of- iffi
ficial statement issued today by the y j
war office. ! Iu- J
The Germans attacked in force on ' Pv !
both banks of the Mouse after the ' n
usual heavy bombardment. An attack ji dn$J
on the south slope of Dead Man Hill S W&i
was checked by grenade detachments, I Et 5
according to the official statement. j jTO
Germans Capture Trenches. jj S 1
On the right bank of the river . i, J
there were violent engagements west i Ey
.and .spjrth of Fort Vaux during which K$ j
the Germans gained a footing in a cor- ! fo ;
ncr of Fumin wood, but were immo- HS j
dlately expelled. Later they returned E '
to the attack when, some trenches f M
were captured. A German grenade as- '; raj
sault north of Hill No. 321 was stop- , PH
pod by the fire of the French. ! ik '
The text of the statement says: J W&
"On both banks of the Meuse last j K
night was marked by a series of pro- j Kj
nounced attacks by the enemy which ml
followed bombardments of great se- i B a
verity. If, I
"On the left bank the Germans at- la
tacked our trenches upon the south- wCf
ern slopes of Dead Man Hill. During Wi
a spirited engagement with hand gre- ffigjj
nades our troops wore successful in mFm
completely repulsing the enemy and KfrjJ
in retaining all their positions. j Emu
Ferocious Fighting In Vaux Section. IjlnSj
"On the right bank the fighting r jggM
continued with ferocity in the region j Iran
west and south of Fort De Vaux. Tes- j 8m
terday evening a powerful German jj jpju
attack penetrated a wood southeast j (fwiH
of the Fumin wood. We delivered a , I.jJ8
counter attack and chased the enemy ( ia
out. At about midnight a further of- jj pjf
fensivo action was directed upon our 1 yn
positions reaching from the Fumin L Kfjjtj
wood to a point to the east of Che- f J1U
nois, and was repulsed with sanguin- , Bij&
ary losses. . kbjp
"At the Fumin wood and at Che- i
nois tho enemy secured lodgement in Hj
some of our advanced trenches be- jffij
tween these two positions. wi
"At about 2 o'clock In the morning Kfifl)
an attack with hand grenades against ' teJj-
our positions north of Hill No. 321 ( gg S
failed under our fire. i I?jjflj
"In the Champagne district artillery ifjjli
fighting was very spirited along the Stj
front from Maisons-de-Champagne to j KftjJ,
Mont Tetu. j ifr!'
French Bring Down Germans. j Iuu
"A French air squadron went out in ffl'l1
pursuit of a group of enemy aero- ,Jftj
planes which had come forward with aj
the intention of bombarding the vil- WAfc
lages of the valley of the Meuse. Dur- j ft ft
ing this pursuit one of 'the French fSL
pilots brought down two German ma- MR
chines. ' no WLw
"During the night of June 21-22 HTj
French aeroplanes threw down a nuni- j &!
ber of projectiles upon the railroad i mMl
stations and the tracks at Apremont, Kfl
Grande Pre, Soptsarges, Rotagne and Kl
Brieulles as well as on the barracks j ft; i
in the wood of Consenvoye and tho ( J
military establishments north of M J
Thlonvllle," K j
Belgians Whip Germans. i
Havre. June 22, 5.30 a. m. Further ;j j
successes for the Belgian columns In-
vading German East Africa are claim- S
ed in an oficial statement issued by ,
the Belgian war office today. The . j
statement follows: ; J
"General Tombeur telegraphs that j sMi
after beating the enemy on June 6 at -k
Klwltawe our advance guard again ? 'jm
caught up with the Germans on June m
12 and forced an engagement with .
them on the road from Kiwitawe to m
Kitega, east of the river Ngokoma. j.
The enemy was routed and retreated, , II,
abandoning the killed on the field. j
The pursuit continues." . i '
-u !
EFFICIENCY. :
(From the Washington Star.) J ; x
"Charley, dear," said young Mrs. j
Torkins, "I'm going to read poetry
after this.
"What for?" j I
"It saves so much time. There aro '
so many open spaces in poetry that ! i
the time required to read a pase is : M
materially shortened." , J
1 I I
- 1
;,oEL L
