4
"God be praised that to believing souls gives
ight in darkness, comfort in despair." K,nHenryv!
SILVER, 65 3-4 CENTS
THE WEATHER
Fair Tonight. Friday Fair and
Warmer
TONOPAH
Daily Bonanza
METAL QUOTATION
Silver ,.
Copper I..
Lead
Quicksilver ,
J 66
..... 27-28
.L $6.80
170480
i
VOL. XVI-NO. 7
TONOPAH, NEVADA, THURSDAY EVENING, JUNE 22, 1916
PRICE 10 CENTS
vvn n PtTi
0
0
0
0
0
E
El
El
El
El
El
El
El
HI
White Flags Lure Colored Troops to Place Where Enemy
Was Concealed With Machine Guns Ready to Turn
LooseTwelve Americans, Forty Mexicans Killed,
tBr AMoriaicd Prcaa.)
EL I'ASO, J mm 22. The entire Mexican bordi-r today is in n
stMte of preparedneNH, calmly awaiting the next move which either
means peace or war. Across the Rio Grande there i much activity
ia the movements of Mexican troops, while north of the river on
the American side there was a tendon of expectancy, but withal
a readiness for any contingency.
Mexicans Leaving Juarez
Knrly this inoriiing the citicim of Juarez, at the other end of
the bridge across the Hio (Irande, began evacuating the city,
although a large part of the garrison, customs and other officials
remained at their posts. The evacuation is believed to be an effort
to get out of range of the large guns of Americans stationed on
the highest point north of the river commanding Juarez. Street
ears continued operating across the international bridge.
No Additional Details
The Mexican consular agent received no additional details of the
Carrizal fight and it is intimated that the official Mexican attitude
will be that the clash was a detached incident not connected with
the general situation. It is stated that the Mexicans captured 20
horses and 20 rifles.
Reports from other border towns indicated the geenral move
ment of Mexican troops apparently was southward, while others
going in the direction of Pershing's camp.
It is reported that these troop movements cause no anxiety to
army officers. From Columbus it is reported that troops which
threatened to close in on Pershing in the event of a southern
movement had now disappeared and are believed to be heading
for Chihuahua City to effect a junction with Trevino's main body.
Pershing Taking Precautions I
It is learned that Carranza troops are close to the southern
end of the American lines, but that Pershing is maintaining strong
outposts and taking precautions to prevent trouble. Troop move
ments have emptied the towns of Casas Grandes, Colonia Dublan
and El Valle of Carranzistas.
The Mexican wireloss station at Jaurez has been dismantled,
while the Carranza barracks have been stripped of all equipment.
Several train loads of soldiers also departed southward.
conflict in full swing any hour. At the White House it Mas said
that Wilson '8 policy is unchanged and that, for the present, at least,
he had no intention of going before congress immediately.
Secretary Baker conferred with Wilson regarding the reported
battle and later talked with the chairman of the military affairs
committee.
A definite report from General Pershing is awaited to stir to
grim purpose the vicinity of the state and war departments. .
. . ..
Carranza Disclaims Liability
For the Acts of His Soldiers
Br Aa.oriatcl Prcaa.)
WASHINGTON, June 22. Eliseo ArredondoJ(JLhe, Mexican am
bassador, called on Secretary Lansing today and asked an explana
tion of the action of American . troops in approaching Carrizal.
Also on the reported action of General Pershing occupying Casas
Grandes and Nueva Cases Grandes, saying such action would be
one of open hostility. He said the dispatches indicated that the
.Mexicans thought the troops intended to take Carrizal.
UPRISING OF TURKS
FAVORS THE BRITISH
(By Associated Press).
LONDON, June 22. Reports
have been received that a sert-
ouh uprising against the Turks
is In progress In Arabia. The
rebels are said lo have captured
Mecca.
Oil CELERITY
UNLESS SENATE COMMITTEE
REPORTS AlAIN BODY WILL
DEMAND REDRESS
Mr AnMtniil Prcaa.)
WASHINGTON, June 22. Senator
Works of California precipitated a
diHCUBsion in the senate on the Mexi
an situation when he called up a
esolutlon authorizing Intervention,
declaring that unless the foreign re
lations committee acted the senate
would take the matter out of Its
hands. ... ...
WATER FRONT STRIKE
(Hr AaaorlaFl I'rm.)
WASHINGTON, June 22. An official communication was pre
sented by Ambassador Arredondo, seeking an explanation of the
fight, to Secretary Lansing as coming from the foreign office in
Mexico City. From the tone officials here concluded that Carranza
desires to disclaim responsibility and that no attempt had been
made to carry out the threat to undertake expulsion of the Pershing
expedition.
From a foreign source it is learned that Carranza is exerting an
effort to avoid a break with the United States coincident with an
effort to restrain belligerent advisors.
A demand for the release of the seventeen soldiers reported
prisoners in Mexico was made immediately.
iSi Aaaarlatcit Prcaa.)
WASHINGTON, June 22. There is no effort to conceal the
anxiety with which the Mexican situation is viewed by all officials.
Reports from the border indicate that a serious clash occurred and
whoever is the aggressor or whatever is the outcome has brought
war with Mexico so close Ihat officials say the country may see the
hqv; JIM
BUTLER PAID $12.75
FOR CLAIM WHICH BROUGHT $38,300
Pershing: Sends Out Scouts
To Find Facts About Fight
(III Aaaoclatcd Prcaa.)
SAN ANTONIO, June 22. General Pershing reported today to
General Funston that he had not yet received any report of the
fighting at Carrizal. He added he had sent out two squadrons of
the Eleventh Cavalry with orders to get in touch with the troop
of the Tenth Cavalry engaged with the Mexican force yesterday
General Funston made pluin that Pershing's report had not altered
the situation and that no special orders would be issued until
Pershing makes a detailed report.
Jim Bvillor, one of the owners Of
claims out east and I guess all it
the Tonopali Divide mine, at Gold
Mountain, Bix miles south of Tono-
lah, visited the property this morning
In company with Win. Taylor, who
' bus properly Interests adjoining.
1 Mr. lutler Is greatly pleased wllh
the showing In the leasehold of
I Crimes & IIhiihou, where anolher
shipment, richer than the last. Is
nearlv mlv to eo to the mill. He
I says that the leasers are doubtless
working In an entirely new lead, as
they struck the ore some distance
before the ledge showing In the upper
A workings could have been expected.
So promising Is this ledge and
"therss In this property that Mr.
I Butler stroncly favors resumption of
work on company account
"There sie belter opportunities
, right here In Tonopah than any
ft other place I know," suld "Father
. Jim" Butler to a group of old friends
this morning, "and they're Just as
good now as they ever were. See
McCarty. Perry and Moran sitting
ever there? They each pulled dowa
a hunch of cash the ether day let
c.ist them was their assessment work.
"It's funny how a man can make
money sometimes and not even try.
A fellow came up to me on the street
one day and" said: 'Jim, there's
tl2.75 against you on our books.'
I told him what I thought he was
because I didn't trade at his store
and I didn't owe anybody In Tono
pah a cent anyhow, but I paid him
anyhow and later I learned that it
was my share of expense for doing
assessment work on a claim that had
run out and was relocated by Henry
Cutting and this fellow that struck
me for the twelve six bits and they
hud put me In for a third.
"Well, I forgot all about it for a
year and then some fellow came and
gave me 138,300 for my Interest and
I forgot all about being sore at the
fellow that dunned me for the twelve
six bits 1 didn't think I owed.
"Then another time a fellow came
to me with a piece of smoke blue
silica sulphide and he said but If
you're going to put this In the Bon
ansa I wont tell yon about It. Coma
en, lei's take something, boys."
FRENCH LOSE
Oil Fill HUE
cmioiia LOSS CONCEDED BY
OFFICIAL ADVICES FROM
PARIS OFFICE
t Htv Aaasrlatcd Prcaa.)
"PARIS, June 22. After violent at-
truks lasting all night the Germans
ciiptured front line trenches between
r'uniln Wood and Ohenois. on the
Venlun sector, according to an offi-i
cial report.
I
VISITS SHU
OFFICERS LAND TO OELIVE
MESSAGE OF THANK8
TO ALFONSO
BREAKS OUT AGAIN
SHOREMEN ACCUSE EMPLOYERS
OF NOT STANDING BY
CONTRACT8
Mr AaaoHated Prcaa.)
SAN FRANCISCO, June 22. Fifty
additional policemen have been sta
tioned along the water front because
the Longshoremen's union resumed
the strike today, alleging the em
ployers had violated a temporary
agreement respecting the employ
ment of strikebreakers. The employ
ers deny the allegation.
NO-CHANGE Of POLICY omOALLY ANNOUNCED AS YET
TENTH GAVALY AMBUSHED BY MEXICANS
AND SHOT TO PIECES WITH MACHINES
SRTILLERY RCROY TO
WIPE OUT JUAREZ
Battery Commanding the Town
Capable of Hurling Shells Six
Miles Waits the Word
(Br Aaaaclatc Prcaa.)
EL PASO, June 22. A score of Americans were killed, accord
ing to Mexican reports, and seventeen captured, in a battle that
occurred yesterday at Carrizal. The captured have beeb ordered
taken to Chihuahua. A machine gun used by the Mexicans is
credited with doing heavy execution.
The Americans ware members of the Tenth Cavalry, colored,
and wore on scouting expedition. The Mexicans declare they
ordered the Americans to retire and the orders were ignored.
American passengers reaching the border declare the troops
were led into ambush by the use of a white flag. The only news
received came from Mexican officials at Juarez. General Funston
lias received no word from Pershing.
The encounter took place at least seventy miles from Casas
Grandes, the nearest Amrican base. It is believed at least 40
Mexicans were killed, including General Felix Gomez, the com
mander. -,
MUNITIONS
IT
iHr AuwUlcd Prcaa.) ' " "" ."".'.7 .. . "
EL PASO, June 22. The Americans lost twelve dead, including
their commander, and seventeen prisoners in the battle of Carrizal.
Fourteen Mexicans were killed and thirty wounded, according to
an official announcement of the Mexican consulate, which declared
it had received complete details from Villa Ahumada. The Ameri
cans removed their own wounded. The name of the American
commander was not learned.
EL PASO, June 22. A battery of 4.7 guns capabie of throwing
sixty pound projectiles six miles are pointed threateningly over
the city toward Juarez, while developments in the situation arising
from the battle of Carrizal are eagerly awaited. Along the river
machine 'guns companies stand ready to take up advantageous
positions. The hope is expressed that the tension might abate. 1
Pasd is calm and Juarez is quiet.
(Br AaaoclatcS Prase.)
WASHINGTON, June 22. A resolution authorizing the president
to draft guardsmen immediately for the regular army was submitted
today by the secretary of war. Senator Hay said he would call it
up tomorrow to press for immediate passage.
BORDER PUS
ARMY 13 WELL FIXED FOR
PRACTICAL CAMPAIGN IN
MEXICO
(Br Aaaorlatrd Prcaa.)
SAN ANTONIO, June 22. Vast
quantities of ammunition and sup
plies are stored In Mexico at points
along the border, a high officer says.
The factories, he declares, are in a
position to keep these supplies going
as fast as needed. The transporta
tion department Is well equipped
with motor trucks and other vehicles.
FIRST HEWS OF THE BUTTLE
IS CIRCULATED BY BONANZA
TODAY ANO A YEAR AGO
Hjr Au4'lalr4 Prcaa.
MAD1UD, June 22. A German sub
marine arrived today at Cartagena.
The officers disembarked and de
parted for Madrid with a confidential
I letter to King Alfonso, supposed to
express thanks from the emperor for
the reception given Interned prisoners.
.". m
a. m
12 noon
2 p. tu
mis 1915
.44 58
...54 "
.62 7H
. 6H 81
Relative humidity st 2 p. m.
today. 21 Dr cent.
WILSON LOOKS OUT FOR
MEMBER OFFICIAL FAMILY
l tlr aM-latcl lrra.l
WASHINGTON, June 22. The nnm
Inallnn of Attorney General Gregory
to succeed J. E. Hughes la virtually
GREECE JOINS ALLIES
SAYS ATHENS REPORT
FRENCH LEGATION ANNOUNCES
ACCEPTANCE OF TERM8
BY ATHENS
I Br Aaaorlatcd Prcaa. I
LONDON, June 22 Acceptance by
Greece of the demands of the entente
powers is reported from Athena.
The acceptance condition was not
communicated to the French legation
by M. Zaimls, who Is said to be
forming a new cabinet.
P. H. WHEELER and his brother.
Franklin Wheeler, the latter a former
resident of this city, stewards of the
hospital for the Insane at Reno, ar
rived this morning to escort Tbeo-
decided on. John W. Dave will prob-'dore Edrta and Marco del Barba to
ably succeed Gregory. the asylum.
The first news of the encounter
was furnlBhed Tonopah by the Bon-
anza bulletin service, aispmyeu iur
leading resorts, the MIzpah hotel and
the Elks club. The news was re
ceived with incredulity until it was
learned that the message was au
thentic direct from the Associated
Press, and there could not be any
doubt of the substance of the story.
Manager Jules Smith, on learning of
the importance of the news, stopped
the movies long enough to Inform
bis patrons of the portentous event,
which was received in profound sil
ence that found vent after the show
through groups on the sidewalk com
menting vigorously on the dilatory
policy that sacrificed the lives of
United States soldiers to the cowardice
and rapacity of the foe over the Rioj
Grande. Had a recruiting onicer oeen
In Tonopah last evening he would not
have had to wait for offers of serv
ices, as the expression on all sides
voiced a desire to visit summary
punishment on the enemy.
The first report, which has been
conflruied In almost every detail, was
on the street at :30 o'clock, and
reads as follows:
EL PASO, June 21. A detach
ment of American cavalry clashed
with Carranalsta forces at Car
rizal. ninety miles south of El
Paso, both suffering heavy casu
alties, according to Mexican un
official reports received by the
Mexican military authorities at
Jaerea. It te reported that forty
Americans were killed by machine-gun
fire in a surprise at
tack. The Mexican losa was not
so heavy. General Fella Gomes
Is named among the Mexican
dead.
Qeneral Francisco Gonzales,
commander at Ju&rei, announced,
officially that seventeen ' Ameri
cans were taken prisoners.
BUTLER
THEATRE
TODAY
"THE SOUL'S CYCLE"
A Drama of Today and Yesterday
Founded en the Them of
Reincarnation
Featuring the Beautiful Motion
Picture Star
MARGARET GIBSON
PATHS WEEKLY
TOMORROW
"THE GIRL AND THE CAME"
Railroad Film Drama
Featuring Fearless Helen Holmes
And
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG
The Beauty of the Screen
IV.
WILTON LACKAYE
Distinguished Stage Star
In
"TRILBY"
5
