VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, JUNE 22, 1916.
NUMBER 52.
r n ' riiQinTrtiUrt in naif '
Wlllb An MY i
GAHRIZAL ATTACK
MAY BE THREAT
WHICH STARTS WAR
Much Depends on Whether C'ush
Is Result of Carranza's At
tempt to Enforce Withdrawal
of U. S. Troops.
Score of Gen. Pershing's Men Killed and Nearly
Twice Thai Number of Mexicans Seventeen
U. S. Soldiers Taken Prisoners Gen. Gomez
Among the Mexicans Killed Available
Stories of Fight Relate That Mexicans Dur
ing Course of Parley with Cavalrymen Open
ed Fire with Machine Gun, Believing Amer
icans Were about to Attack Which Side
Won Not Known.
El Paso. Tex., Juno 21. American and Carranza troops
fought a bloody battle to-day only a few hours after Presi
dent Wilson's six thousand word rebuke yesterday to General
Carranza had gone forward to Mexico City. With which side
victory rested is not known.
The engagement took place on the Santo Domingo ranch
near the Mexican town of Carrizal, which is nine miles south
west of Villa Ahumada, the Mexican field headquarters in
northern Chihuahua. The number of dead, American or
Mexican, was not definitely known hei'e to-night, but nearly a
score of General Pershing's men are said to have been killed
and the Mexicans are said to have lost more than two score.
Seventeen Americans are declared by Mexican officials to
have been captured and to have been hurried to Chihuahua
city under adequate guard. A machine gun used by the Mex
icans is reported to have done heavy execution.
The Americans engaged are thought to
Jinr been members of a troop from the
JOtli aaliy, n nemo regiment, loturnlng
from a sco'itlng trip to Guzman. The size
of tile Mexican force, whoso commander,
General I'slix Gomez, wan killed Is not
known.
News of the hattlo was received in .lu
hrcz early this afternoon by licneral
Francisco Gonzales, Cuiinuza commander
of the n Hilary zone of the bonier. For
f-omc teasoti Go'ieral Gonzales kepi thu
f-ton t-eeict until late in the afternoon I
when an American, J. I,', llnbble. loturn- '
ing to the bonier from the interior,
trc 'Kilt t Ki I'aso the news that ho hail
an ii i) eis of Mexican dead along
the Mexican retinal rail! nail tracks at
VII 'i Ahumada. anil hail been told that 1
there had been .in encounter.
(ieneial i iii.i'ez' llrst step after con
tinuing tin news was to issue a stato
Wcn lacing the blame on the American
commander lie chained that the Amer
ican 'root's Hied llrst on the Mexicans,
nnil that their shots weie directed at a
courier who hail Just presented to them
p. request that they retire.
American army nllleers doclaied
absolutely disbelief to-night In General
Gonzalez's assertions. The opinion was
cxpicssed that If the Americans fired on
the Mexicans they did mi bocau.-e It was
iieicssarv in older to iiibitio their own
6afety.
General Trevino's recent warning to
General Pershing not to send his troops
e.T-t, south or west of their positions was
recalled.
EXCITEM ISN'T IN KI. I'ASO.
Ex itemont spread in KI l'aso as oxtrai
tvcii! Issued anil the news became known.
Quiet was maintained, howowr, In view'
of Geneial Holt's frequent admonitions
th t his soldiers could take earn of anv
situation that might arise. While await
Iiik Instru Hons fiom headquarters at
vutJnlo, General Hell kept his entile
hi readiness for Instant action.
i meantime, however, word came
Juarez that all was quiet, although
i.ews of the battle was widespread
PERSHING PREPARES
FOR QUICK ACTION
Columbus, N. M,
General Pershing,
ican expeditionary
er, is re-disposing
June 21.
the Amer-command-his
entire
force as a result of to-day s
clash with Carranza troop.- at
Carrizal, according to reprrts
from the field to-day. Heavy
forces, ready for immediate
action, are being concentrated
at Namiquipa, 200 miles so..th
of the border, and at Colonia
Dublan, 120 miles south. Des
patches also said that Amer
ican scouting patrols have
penetrated the Santa Calara
canyon, about .".5 miles direct
ly east of Namiquipa.
OF 40.000
WASHINGTON AWAITS DETAILS
READY FOR WORD
GONG. GREENE'S
AMENDMENT iS
FAVORED 81 HOUSE
Fa .
foi
I
f'
t
tl
i h to-night the only nfllelal details
1 i engagement received hero came
'he Mexican side of the river.
Gcnzalez said that this Informa
i transmitted to him from Villa
u'a by Colonel Gcnoveso Rlvas,
oiumnnded the Mexicans after their
t' General Gomez, was Main. General
'. alMi gave the Mexican ex
itlon of how the two forces came in
i t
"i dine to General Gonzalez ho
ii lorined by General Gomez at
i Miumada last night of the pres
of the Americans westwntd between
,i Ahiimana aim i;i vane, no says
Immediately Instructed General
,iez to proceed to Santo Domingo
ill where the Americans were
p rted In "unknown forco" and ndvlsn
their commander to retlro to their
ca m p.
This, he snys. General Gomez did this
morning. Tho American commander,
whoso unmo was not given by Genetal
Gomez, Ih said to have replied that ho
was Instructed to proceed to Villa
Aliumada and must do so.
GONZALEZ.
he
G
ti
STATEMENT OK
tho Juarez
Tho statement Issued by
commander read:
"Immediately upon learning of
jiresenco of the American troops In the
Vicinity of Carrizal, Gen. Felix Gomez
despatched a messenger with a request
that the Ameiican commander with
draw his camp. 'When tho American
troops icmalned motionless, ho sent a
prcond despatch bcaisr, who was llrod
upon by tho American troops after ho
had delivered Ids message. The Ameri
cans Immediately moved forward and
nttaeked General Gomez's command.
' Ml the prisoners admitted that the
hi imc should bo put op tho American
ronm nndcr for having ordered thu Ht-
tn k Tho prisoners woio sent to Chi-
hufilnm City with the cimtumaiy protcc- drcs or the peon,
MEXICANS HAD ADVANTAGE.
Whichever side henna the engage
ment, the Mexnans bad the advantage,
for they had piinidod theniscUes with
a machine gun and this Is supposed to
have done deadly execution In the ranks
of the Americans. That the latter weie
not inefficient, however, was proved by
the number of Mexican dead and
wounded lemoved to Villa Ahumada and
witnessed by Americans coming north
on a tiain bound for Juarez.
The battle began about 10:30 a. m
and lasted not more than an hour. It
apparently ended with both Mdcs with
drawing. The failure of General I'er- i "on
shing to report on It, Indicated that the
American survhois had not yet leturn
ed to their base at an eaily hour to
night. A story brought to El Paso by J. C.
Hubble, nn American, who has been em
ployed by the Compania Agrieola at Ho
oulllas. bears out several of the details
of the engagement presented by General i make one
Gomez. Ilubblo's story was corrobaitcd tion of :s
by Jnmes Maxey, another American, who
also was on his way to Ev I'aso fiom the
Interior. Hubble and Maxey said that
while their tialn was stopping at Villa
Ahmada they noticed numbers of dead
and wounded being brought in and were
told by a Carranza captain that a battle
had taken place. Tho captain Informed
them, they said, that a number of Amer
ican prisoners, had been locked in a cat
tle car and were to be taken to Chihuahua
City to be hanged.
They mentioned Mexican soldiers who
told them that several bundled American?
and VJ) Mexicans had been engaged.
"The Mexican olliceis at Villa Ahumada
treated us with tho greatest courtesy."
said Mr. Hubble "They answer our ques
tions quietly and with no show of antip
athy or excitement.
MEXICANS CONCEALED.
"According to the story they told us,
the Mexican command was concealed in
the underbills)! when It discovered the
American cavalrymen tiding toward them
over tho sand. General Felix Gomez, the
Mexican commander, Immediately sent
r. courier asking for a parley under a
flag of truce with the American com
mander. The parley was arranged and as
the Mexican leader nnd two aides staite.l
forwnrd the Americans suddenly deployed
In a seml-clrcular skirmish lino.
General Gomez, apparently believing
he was about to be attacked, raised his
arm and signaueu a mauiunu ku hi mo
rear to open tiro on tho Americans. I ho
machine gun swept tho cavalry ranks,
causing heavy losses."
Immediately, however, n detachment
of American troopers dashed forward
under heavy fire, to tho center of tho
Held where General Gomez and his staff
wero sitting on their horses. In the -Rultant
encountor one of the cavalrymen
killed tho Mexican leader with his pistol,
wlillu tho remainder of the Carranza party
escaped to their own lines."
The two Americans said their Informa
tion was that tho Ameiican dead num
bered 17 and that Mexicans had taken
forty prisoners.
llubblo nnd Maxey said that some of
the Mexicans openly boasted that the
Americana had been drawn into an
ambush.
At General Gomez's headquarters n
victory for Mexico was being claimed,
Tho sceno In the front rc,m ,,f tM,
I Commandancla, where the younger iVffl
tho
Provides for Complete Codifica
tion and Revision of Mili
tary Laws of the Uni
ted States.
Apparently the Only Question
Is How Soon National Guard
Will Start South.
of
tho
Washington, Juno 21 The House
Hcpiesentatlves in committee of
whole, considering the army npprnpria-
blll this afternoon, after a debate.
igieed to the amendment proposed by
Congressman 1'ianl; 1.. Greene of Ver
mont providing for a complete cndltlcn
llon and levlslon of the military laws of
Hie l'ldted States. There has be-n no such
levlslon am', codllleation of the mlll'nry
laws of the country since ISTs although
the war department has long desired to
The woik will cover leglsla
years to bring tho levlslon tu
date and Include the recent army icor
i:anlzatlon act. The limit for Its comple
tion Is fixed at two yeais. It Is estimated
by the judge advocate-general that If the
amendment becomes a law it will result
In gteat saing In tho burden of adminis
tration of the army.
San Antonio, Texas, June 21. From
Htownsville to the Pacific, General
I'unston's army of 40.ON) v.hp ready to
night for an emergency and ofllcers at
department headquarters were counting
the hours It would take to b! lug south
units of the national guardsmen.
Grncral Pershing has ben unable o
get to General Funston any refcm of the
engagement fought betwecnAmerican
soldiers and Carranza troo-is under
General I'ellx Gomez, but the,e appear vl
no teasoti to doubt the teport from Mexi
can sources that a serious i.igagemer.t
had taken place and there was little
doubt that the Americans, a detachment
of the Tenth cnvalrv, a negro organiza
tion had suffered heavily.
Instead of the tension belnir broken by
the clash It was keyed still higher to
night nnd there appeared no piob.iblll'v
that It would be lessened until the report
from General Pershing was received or
until official news of undisputed ag
gression by the same Mexican troops Is
received. General runston said he would
"end no special orders to General Hell,
commanding at El Paso, or to Geneml
Pershing until ho had received official
news.
The meagre details of the light received
by General Fnnston included tl fr.ct that
General I'ellx Gomez, enmm idlug the
Mexicans, was among the killed, that
the casualties on both sides were consid
erable, and the Intimation that the Amer
icans had fallen back.
It was admitted at army headquarters
that General I'unston's determination not
i to send any special orders to General
J'orshlng or General Hell did not mean
I that swift punitive action would not be
Admitted on Every Hand That
the Incident Presents Crave
Menace to Continuance of
Friendly Relations with Mexico.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NrV COUNTIES
Mulcahcy and two children of Hnrdwlclc
aro In town to visit her parents, Mr.
nnd .Mrs. James Slnon. Tho Rev. and
TUTTiriT 1?IUTT?V rf!- ' Rt """Rhton and children of
iUUJUljUliVnX. Walllngford aro In town for a few days
At a meeting of thu Congregational at the homo of her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Itullglous society It was decided to concur J Walter Hillings. Carl Mead and Percy
with tho Congregational Church In issu-1 W. Wilds of New York aro In town for
lug it call to tho Rev. Henry C. Newell I fw days. Tho Itcv. Martin Cady ol
of Homervllle, Conn., to become, the paw- M'hlcim'o Is In town to visit at the home
tor of tho Congregational Church at Mid-, "f ' .Jl."1'- Y ''"'"V-Tho
dlebury. Action in tho committee, the I '" "..nt !, !i Ittissrll Circle, No.
1 , , '5, Ladles of the Grand Armi, held a well
church and tho society was unanimous . ,,, w,rnwbrry Hhot
Mr. Newell Is a giaduato of Amherst , ,,,,,. roQms Haturrlliy ,, no,tC(, R
College In the class of l'JOl. Ho was a ' ROOI Buni. Miss Marlon Crosby and Miss
teacher In Piedmont College, Dcmarest, Meyers have gone to lioston, where they
Ga and later became president of the will spend a few weeks. Prof. P. N.
Institution. For three years he has been Swett has returned from Hoston, where
pastor of the Congregational Church in he went to represent Mlddlebury College
Komervllle, Conn. He Is a graduate oT nt the opening of the new buildings of
I'litford Theological Seminary and tas the Massachusetts Institute of Technol
an excellent record as a student ogv.
preacher, and admlnlstrator.-MrH James Mrs. Gardner Walnwrlght, who Is en
Manney was given a pleasnnt surptls- tortalnlng- a house party for her grand
."attlrday, the occasion being her 71th I daughter, Agnes Allen Warner, unvn
bllthday. About 4U of her friends took I al Informal iulnco at tho Masonic hall
possession of her home and had a merrv I Saturday evening-. After tho dance
social tlmo with games and muMc. it--. "ii-i was sci-ve.i at .Mrs. Waln
freshments were served. Mrs. Manney ! Wright's homo on Court street. The
received some beautiful cut glass nnd I ''ince was attended by tho young peo
ihlna gifts. Hake Dunmoro Hodge, No. I,Ip "r l'ie village, tho college students.
11. I. O. O. I. obf(ted their annual i""" memoers ni ino House
undertaken.
MONTPELIER ROYS READY.
nnd
tors weie gatheied, was holiday-like.
Several of them, speaking of tho battle,
said, "We won."
Juarez llrst learned of the fight In n
vaguo form In tho early aftornoon. The
civilian nonulatlon then beua II lit tinel.-
thelr household goods. Many already
had left for Interior points by a morn
ing train In anticipation of tho trouble,
Others crossed to El Paso later in tho
day.
'A curious sceno of the Into day was
a proccbslon of civilians carrying arms.
In ago they ranged from small boys,
not as tail as their guns, up to old
men. Most of them weio In ragged
hut bomo belonged tu
! Neither Maxey nor Hubble was
to learn whether the Mexicans had re
ti rated, it being pointed out that all of
! tho Mexicans with whom they talked
apparently left the Held before the en
I gagement had been completed, l.ate to
1 night preparations apparently were under
i way for the peaceful evacuation of
Juaiez. Several troop trains were pulled
into the lallroad yards for immediate
I use.
I Andreas Gaicla, Mexican consul In El
' Paso, crossed the P.lo Grande following
' the first reports of the engagement ami
remained with General Gonzales through
the night. He kept In touch with Gen
eral Hell on the American side by tele
phone, however. Neither tho consul nor
the Mexican military authorities would
discuss icports of tho proposed evacua
tion. A large number of tho citizens of the
town were busy loading their house
hold goods on vans find other vehicles,
ostensibly to transput t them to the
south.
Numbers of persons
tho plaza Immediately
tho battle became public
no demonstrations. Heavy patrol weie
tin own into the streets with instructions
to put down any disorders.
Wnr-liko activity was llrst noticed at the
railway yard wheie a string of freight,
cars lay coupled to several day coaches
that bote the name of the aimy of tho
north. A number of men were employed
there In slowing sacks of beans and Hour,
forago find other army supplies, l.ate, luj
the afternoon a rather large body of Mex
ican cavalry passed thiotigh the town to
ward the hills. Many wagons filled with
women and children wero bound also In
that direction.
No instance of any attempt to molest
Americans was reported during the day
time. After daik no American Is believed
to have lemalned III Juarez.
Consul Garcia said to-night that a mes
sage fiom Mexico bad been received
which stated that the icbels In the States
j of 'acateens and Coahulla had given up
their fight mid Joined the Carranza gov
1 ei nment.
Cotnpnli.v II Niiioliers lit-ttwcn It
711 Itecrilllii;; ( 'mill lined.
Mnntpeller, June Li. I'nder the direc
tion of Major George E. Carpenter a
detail of men fiom Company II to-day
loaded the trnnspoit wagons on seven
flat cars at the Central Vermont sta
tion, three wagons being loaded nn each
car. Major Carpenter has been busy
able 1 since Monday In assembling tho wagons
Washington, June 21. Reports that
Ameiican and Carranza t too urn bad
clashed aroused gravest ,'ippiebcusiou here
to-night for future lelatlons between the
I'nlted States and the Mexican dc facto
go eminent, nil cady attained nltnost to
the bieaklng point.
Olllclals declined to make anv prophecy
as to tho next step of the Washington
government, saving that until detal's of
the Incident had been cleared up it could
not be detei mined whether a crisis had
been precipitated. They made nn effort to
conceal their anxiety, but were not ready
to abandon hope that an oflliial account
of what happened at Carrizal would ie
move the mom threatening elements ol
the situation.
Much e'ependr. It was Indicated, on
whether the clash was a result of Gen
eral Cananza's determination to enforce
his demand for withdrawal of Ameri
can tioops from Mexico or merely a de
tached incident, arising out of a mis
understanding between commanders. II
It were a deliberate attempt to back
up the Carranza edlot by force, there
seems little doubt that President Wil
son will accept It as an art of war and
make good his word In the latest com
munication to the de facto government
In which, It was said, that any such
attempt would be followed by "the
gravest consequences."
Whatever the outcome of the official
Investigation, however, It was admitted
on ever;.- hand that the incident In It
self ptcyonted a grave menace to tho
leontlnuaii'c of friendly relations and
brought tho Mexican situation to per
haps the most reiious statjo It lias
assumed In the many months of uncer
tainty since It began to be a factor In
the country s foielgn airntrs.
President WINon, on whom the final
decision rots, remained at ms ouice
until late to-night ie-eivlng such meag r
Information on the sublect as wis aal'.-
ible Se rotary P.aker was In close
touch with the war detiartment ana ut
White House by telephone
WITH GONNEGTICUT GUARD
Itleluiril I.. Greene, ongri-Bsiniiii
Grrcnc'K Elder Mn, Is Mcinhrr
of the Ynlr llnttery.
at the State arsenal for shipment. Tho
cars were attached to a train this after
noon mid scut to Colchester.
Hecrultlng continued to-day at the
armory and new and old members weie
examined by physicians assigned for the
purpose. Tho company now numbers
between r,., and 7", providing no more
are dismissed after examination. The
company marched to the school campus
this afternoon and were put through
seveial hours' drilling, special attention
being paid to tho recruits. Tho band
will play at the armory to-morrow
morning and accompany the men to the
station.
CORTON LIGHTSHIP
SUNK BY MINE
llrok
gatherod about
when news of
, hut there were
Vcnnrl Ruined Oil) of Wnter nnd
en to I'leeen.
Yarmouth, June 22, l:0fl a. m. The Cor
ton lightship, which was stationed sev
oral miles off the English east coast, has
been sunk by a mine, according to the
survivors, who ar two In number They
say that Captain Ruild at tho bow sight
ed a mine and gave womlng. The explo
sion came nn Instant later and tho forco
was so torrUlo that the vesel war rallied
out of the water nnd eompletly broken up
She sank immediately.
The survivors weie picked up by a fish
lug boat after being ten minutes in the
water. There was no sign of tho captain
or tho cither members of tho ciew.
This is the lit lightship sunk din Iiik
tho war.
Memorial day Sunday. They met in their
ball at 5:30 o'clock and appropriate ex
i rclses were conducted, after which they
wetit to the West cemetery, whore the.'
decorated graves of depart! d biothers.
Judge Thomas II. Noomm of linffali.
X. Y., wife and sou arc In town for the
college commencement. He Is the secre
tary of the class of 'V., which celebrated
Its U'lth anniversary hum Saturday. The
class had a dinner at the Addison House
and every graduate but one was ptesent.
-Prof. I.uther I. ISouncy has returned
from Wilmington, wheie he delivered on
Friday the address to the graduating
elaj-s of the Wilmington high vhoo!.
Mrs. Ray Fisher Is visiting her parents.
Mr. and .Mrs. Charles J. Seeley. Mr. and
Mrs. Thomas Mitchell have returned to
Drummondsvllle, Can., after a two weeks'
visit at the home of her parents, .Mr.
and Mrs. John McNaughton. Mr. nnd
Mrs. Harold Kent and son of Somervlll'!,
'.Mass., are guests of Mr. and Mrs. Solomon
Alnes. Miss Corlntha I'erland has gone
to her home In Canada, wheie she will
visit her relatives for a few days, after
which she will leturn to Hurllngton to
undergo an operation. The Rev. ,lmeon
H. i!lunt, a former rector of St. Stephen's
Episcopal Church, who has been at the
Addison for a few days, has returned to
Somcrvllle, Mass. M sh Itelcno I-aPan
has returned from a week's visit to Mr.
and .Mrs. Clinton Tisdale at East Middle
bury and has gone to Harrc, w here she
will spend some time at the home of het
sMer, -Mrs. E. J. ISruva. Vinton W.
Mitchell has gene to Watertown, Conn.,
where he will spend a few months with
Ills parents. Mlsi Ylirjorle Saltus, who
has been visiting at the home of Mis;
Anna Abbey for a week, has returned to
her home In Hurllngton. Mrs. 11. J,
by tho members
party, who wero tho Misses Doris
Page, Springfield. Mass., Francis Top
ping, Ashland, Ohio, Francis Henckels,
Washington, D. C, Mtuion Noyes, Now
York city, the Messrs. Donald Pare,
Philadelphia, Frank Wycoff, Spring
field, Mass.. Samuel Sheldon, Jr.,
Hrooklyn, X. Y. ; Malcolm Hattou Al
bany, N. Y.. John Cheeseman, Provi
dence, R. I., Emerson Gray, Albany,
N. Y.
Another full day was put In Tuesday
in work on the taking of testimony in
the case of the Vermont Rox company
vs. liber E. Hanks. The plaintiffs
completed their testimony at 1') o'clock
and after a motion, made by them that
the Jury bo sent up to Huntington to
overlook the sceno of the disputed land.
had been overruled by tho court, they
rested their case. The introduction of
testimony by the defense was at one
begun, with Judgo Hanks, the defend
ant, as the first witness. Judge Hanks
denied that he had ever guaranteed to
the plaintiffs that there was a certain
number of acres in tho strip of land,
but claimed that he had himself under
stood that the amount of land In tin
strip was somowhero between l.BHO ami
l.firm acics, had fully Informed them to
that effect, and that tho 1,700 acre
written into tho deed was only Inserted
informally, tho deed reading 1,7"0 acres,
nioio or Icp. His testimony was com.
pletcd at noon and other witnesses fo
tho same side filled out the atternooc
session.
Judge and Mrs. WTUard R. Cray
Minneapolis, Minn., former residents
this town, are hero to stay througt
commencement. Both aro former resl
3
(Continued on I'nce tiro.)
UL
St. Albans, June 21. Richard I. Greene
of this city, elder son of congressman
Finnk I.. Gieene. and a student at ale
t'nlverslty, has been detained In New
Haven, Conn., being a member of the
Yale battery of the Connecticut National
Guard. Congressman Greene was captain
of Company It, 1st Infantry, Vermont
Volunteers from St. Albans In the war
with Spain.
WINS CORN CONTEST.
Iilllp V. llroiMi Aunnled Mute
( liiiiiiploiislili for Year J II 1,1.
St Albans, June 21 Philip W. Hrown
of High street has received notification
from E. I.. Ingalls. State leader of boys'
and girls' clubs, that he has been award
ed the State championship for corn grow
ing dm lug the season of lOl.'i. The eroi
was Tfl.ra bushels of shelled corn. Th
winning of tho championship entitles Mr.
Hrown to a free trip to the Chautauqiias
at five different points In the State dur
ing the month of August, all his expenses
to be paid by tho State.
DEMONSTRATION FOR CO. B
Tiiunmicniilr mid llmiil Will Give Send-
olT tu SI lbiiii IIin iiiln
.Morning.
ASKS WILSON TO
WITHDRAW TROOPS
000 AMERICANS COME RACK.
Naco, All.., Juno 21. -Six hundred
Americans have arrived here on a
special train from Cannncn, Sonora.
With but few exceptions members of
the party said they had not been
jecetil to nny Indignities from the
Mexicans. Tho plant of the Canaiiea
Copper company wim practically closed
It was stated.
lletter fatl to receive a rfgintorod let
ter than tall to find tho clarified ail
which means evcrytlilni; to you,
American t'nloii nuiiliiM .Mllltiirlum
(ids llino.
Now York, June 21. President Wilson
In urged to withdraw tho American
troops fi inn Mexico nt tho earliest pos
slhle moment, in a lesolutlon adopted
to-night by the American 1'nlon Against
.Militarism. The menioilal, which was
telephoned t" President Wilson, was
signed by Oswald Garrison Vlllatd,
Amos Plnchnt, Dr. Sidney Gnlick and a
number of others, Including several delo
gates from Philadelphia.
Tho confetenco also voted to send a
similar appeal to the representatives In
Washington of Argentine, Iliazll and
Chllo urging tlirni to oirer their hcrv-
Ices for tho mediation of the nirriciiltlcs,
The stotn that Is alio to protect
you, through wiso fore-pWnnlng, from
prlco Inflntlon Is a store that Ik earnlns
um- allegiance.
St. Albans, June 21. Escorted by the
St. Albans lltigade band, tho members
of A. R. Hurlhut Post, G. A. R., and
townspeople generally, tho members
of Company 11. 1st Infantry, V. N. (
will leave to-morrow morning on tho
train south at fi'.r.O o'clock for For
Ethan Allen, where tho regiment will
mobilize at tho State campground to
morrow. The company baggage was
loaded on the car this morning.
A big demonstration was given on
I'ajlnr park this ovenlnt? in honor
Company
NEY JERSEY MOBILIZES
ITS GUARD FIRST
Sea Girt. N. J . Juno 21. Now Jersi
to-night claims the distinction of hii
n,n tlrst State to have ItB troops com
nletely mobilized and awaiting furtlu
...iers fiom tho war denaittncnt. The
latest of the organizations called out ar
rlM il here to-ulght and Governor r lew
was untitled by Mijoi'-General l.eona
Wood, commander of the department
the East, that this was the Hist Stat
i ahvo lis national guard in icbpon.se
Id thu President a tall,
MAKING
DESPERATE STAND
AGAINST M
'COL IRA L BEEVES
INAUGURATED HEAD
SS
OF NORWICH Uif.
clitoris' Military
ning to Make
Again
Force Begin
Itself Felt
in Eastern War
Theatre.
Hon. Frank Plumley Gives
Charge Gen. Leonard A.
Wood Made a Trustee.
London, June 21. Fierce l.,:htlng with
the Germans L-enera lv the aggressors is
i in ogress between the Russians and
ci mnus In Volh.vnia. along the Slokhoi
mil Styr rivers and In the legion lying
between l.utsk and Iadlmlr- oiynsKi.
The Russians, who had crosed the Styr
mil reached the village of Gruzlatyn,
st of Kolkl, entered the town and cap-
tuied II ottlcers, men and six machine,
guns. In tho lighting the town changed
bauds several times, but under a con-
entmted German artillery tire the Rus
sians dually were driven back with the
loss of nun made prisoners.
Along the Stokliod near the village of
Rajmlesto tho Germans delivered n heavy
ittack which resolved itself later Into
hand to hand lighting In which the Rus
sians, according to Petrograd, forced the
Germans to llee. Near Klselln another
heavy onslaught was stoped by the Rus
sians and the Germans put to lllght. Near
l.okatchl, southeast of Vladimir-Vol nskl,
Vienna reports the capture f 1,3W Rus
sians.
North, west nnd northwest of l.utsk,
vicious encounters are ensuing. Across
the frontier In Gallcla tho stalemate
in the region of Ruczaiv. persists. In
Itukowlna the Russians continue to
drive the Austrlans west and south
west Petrograd announces that the
prisoners taken by the Riibslnns In
Volhynla and Gallcla up to Juno 15
aggregated 172, IS I.
I'he Germans claim successes for
their arms on the northern part of
the Russian front in the liwlnsk,
Smorgeu and I'ubatowka sectors with
tho intiution of heavy losses on the
Russians In the latter region.
(in both sides of the Mouse In the
region of Verdun tho Germans again
launched strong ottiuits tho French
positions, but were everywhere re
pulsed by the French aitlllery. Ex
cept for Intermittent bombardments,
monis, there was comparative quiet
on the other parts ot tho french ii out
V ednesday.
Rome reports tho capture of an Aus
trian position in the Poslna valley,
southwest of Aslero, further progress
by tho Italians north if Frenzela val
ley and the stopping of Austrian sur
prise nttacks southwest of Aslago.
In the lighting in Asiatic Turkey
and In German Eaht Africa the Rus
sian and lliitlsli war offices record
further victories for their forces re
spectively against tho Turks and the
Germans.
Northfleld, Juno 21, Colonel Ira U
Reeves was to-day Inaugurated president
of Norwich Fniverslty. Dewey hall,
where the ceremony took place, was
filled to Its capacity. Tho Hon. Frank
Plumley pieslded.
The program was opened with Scripture
nnd Invocation by the P.ev. James B
Sargent, chaplain. Mr. Plumley delivered
the charge and made the presentation of
the charter, with a response by Colonel
Reeves.
Governor Charles W. Gates made tha
address on behalf of tho Stato. He was
followed by an address on behalf of th
State board of education by Dr. Mllo B.
Hillega-s, commissioner-elect. Adjt -Gen.
!,co S. Tlllntsnn delivered an address on
behalf of the State mllltln.
President Guy Potter Ronton of the
Fniverslty of Vermont gave a most elo
quent and stirring address on behalf of
the Vermont colleges. Representing
President John M. Thomas of Middle-
buty, Prof. Arthur Wallace Peach gave
an address.
Col. Sebastian C. Jones, president of
New York Military Academy, gave fn
address In behalf of the military
schools of tho I'nlted States. Dean
II. R. Roberts spoke for Norwich
faculty anil Mont. DeWItt C. Webb.
F. S. N., president of the General
Alumni association, spoke on behalf of
the alumni. For the undergraduates
('apt. Eugene G. Adams of the class of
lflbl gave an address.
President Reeves' Inaugural address
closed tho program. Afterwards there
was an Informal reception to President
and Mrs. Reeves.
At the annual meeting of the trustees
held this morning Major-Gen. Leonard
A. Wood, of tho I'nlted States army
and commander of the department of
tho East, was elected a trustee to fill
tho vacancy caused by the death of
Gen. Grenvllle M. Dodge of Des Moines.
Melverd A. Howe was elected a trustee
In place of the Rov Homer White ol
Randolph, who declined to servo longer
because of his advancing years A vote
of thanks wns extended to the Rev Mr.
White for hti long service In behalf ot
tho university.
Militia Hurries South.
Douglas, Ariz., Juno 21.-Ono battallor
of the Arizona militia and a battallor
of the 11th l'nlto.1 States Infantry wen
sent to Nogalcs, Ariz., to-night on a
special train. Tho soldiers were sent
in i espouse to nn appeal from cltlzcm
at Nugalcv.
