it
•iV-f-
$
iy
N?|
VOLUME 86. No. 18
ft
Asks a Fair Hearing At The
Hands of The Voters
To the Voters of the Sixteenth Legislative District:
To visit, personally each voter in these two counties (allowing
only 15 minutes for travel and time spent, with each one) would take
nearly two months time. This is not possible before the Primaries,
so we are mailing you a eopy of this paper containing a brief review
of the record of the last Legislature, and the wriler's part therein.
Having served one term as Representative. I feel this is due the voters
of the Dist. Tn passing it niighl be noted that no Member has heeu
denied a second term in this District, so far as we can lonrn.
It liasjiecn stated publicly, and in the press, that 1 lie last Legis
lature turned down the fanner's interests in its legislative program.
It seems that this is hardly borne out by the records: in support of
this posilion we list some legislation passed for ihe benefit of the
farmer, during thi 1015 Session.
Passed a Constitutional Amendment
for Kural Credits.
Passed Constitutional Amendment to submit the proposition ot'
Mail insurance by taxation.
Reduced the interest rate from 12 per cent to 10 per cent and
nd M't! legal rate from 7c/ to 0"k
Passed law tn compel notification of health officers of contagious
diseases in animals.
Filling Railroads if tliev do not clean and disinfect stock cars
coming into state.
Compelling Railroads to build "hog-t.ight" fences where owner
is building similar fence.
Allowing county commissioners to aid by taxation County Agri
cultural Associations. County and District Fairs.
Increased by a large amount the School Land Funds that
MUST
be loaned on cultivated lands at 5 percent.
Levied funds to reimburse farmers for horses lost by glanders
and cattle from tuberculosis.
Reduced interest rate during foreclosure period of redemption
from 12 per cent to 9 per cent. (Bill introduced by lathrop)
{jaw- compelling Railroads to erect stock yards when so ordered
by Railroad Commission,
Authorized tax levy by counties for extermination of gophers,
yab)i1s, crows and prairie dogs,
Law requiring persons selling pure-bred cattle to proA'ide cer
tificates of health.
Appropriated money for "revolving fund" to secure depend
able gopher poison at reasonable price.
Allowing a petition of 10 per cent of voters, to submit to vote
of a county a proposition to tax entire county to support graded
rural and consolidated schools.
Passed Concurrent- resolution consenting to the provisions of
Federal legislation "To provide for Co-operative Agricultural Exten
sion work."
Occupation of Members
(Fanners
Retired Farmer
Farmers (and other occupation)
Insurance and Real Estate Men
Lawyers
Bankers
All others
Concurrent Wcsolution urging all Yiiemliers of Congress to sup
port liili :fot* uniform grain grading and proper inspection.
The one point of opposition seems to be. the fact that the bill
providing for a Terminal Elevator failed to pass. A little history
of fie.lefnvnal Constitutional Amendments may throw some light,
on litis matter, also an expbitialion of the exact terms of the bill
actually before us. A great many people felt that because so large
a per cent of the voters voted favorably on the Constitutional
Amendment, that it was an instruction to the Legislature 1o pass
the bill. This dees not seem to be warranted in theory, or in fact.
The Amendment first passed "Authorized and Empowered" the
erection of an Elevalor "in the states of Minnesota or "Wisconsin."
Then after this amendment passed its first reading it seemed to a
good many who favored the terminal proposition that if it was built
in another state that it would pass from our control, other crops
maturing first would fill it up, for it would have to be a nithiie eleva
tor,
Therefore: a second Amendment was introduced and passed
providing for elevators "within the State of North Dakota." Both
were passed and adopted by about the same vote, if one was "man
datory," both were. et nobody ever heard any accusation
,(gainst the Legislature because it did not pass a bill establishing ele
vators in North Dakota.
This Bill before us would have had funds available of something
like 5,000.00 instead of allowing the erection of same in any point
in either Minnesota or Wisconsin as the Amendment, authorized, the
bill wf^s limited to St. Paul, or Superior, neither point being the main
gtfiin markets ot the two states. Many felt if we were going into
this project, we should have it within our own state where we^could
control them, and further felt that going into it upon so small a
basis as the bill provided would be so ineffective as to destroy any
prospect of success if there was merit in the proposition that to go
into it on such a scale would make our state the laughing slock of the
country. This was the actual bill on which we had to vote "yes" or
"no." Now let us see how it appealed to the farmers of the House?
This table of occupations of the members is taken from their signed
statements as on file'with the Secretary of State, so that each one
should know what his own occupation is.
Total Vote 40 64
This table will give you the different occupations of the Members
a:
(tirst reading) to provide
For Bill Against Absent
22 27
1
2
fi
10
fi
13
Pol. Advertisement
HOPE, STEELE COUNTY, NORTH DAKOTA, JUNE 22ND,1916.
R. A. LATHROP
Hope, N. D.
There has been much said about the doings of the last
Legislature, especially, as regards to farmers'relation there
to much of this, it seems to me, has not. been fairly present
ed, and I feel that the voters desire both sides of the case in
order that they may estimate with accuracy jind vote with
fairness to all.
So far as I am personally concerned I am conscious of
having cast no vote against any interest of our state, much
less the farming interest, for, even from a selfish standpoint
1 could not afford to do so.
In this issue of the Pioneer I am giving my side of the
case and something of legislative doings in general,
for your
careful consideration, and know from my 25 years experience
in North Dakota, dealing with the farmers, that the vast
majority of them want to do, and aim to do, the right thing.
It is true that in a new state some abuses creep in, but let
us not, in an offort to correct these, go to the extreme to
which it seems we are in danger of going, of building up a
sentiment of antagonism between town and country, and
in effect say that unless a man is a farmer he should not be
a member of the Legislature.
Charles Reade, the novelist, entitles one of his books,"Put
Yourself in His Place", so I am going to ask you to imagine
that your name is Lathrop, that your friends urged you to
become a candidate for Representative, you did so, and tried
to serve to the best of your ability. Then after you consid
er the record carefully, see if you think it is such that if it
had been yourself that had made it, you would feel that it
warranted your friends and neighbors refusing to endorse
you for re-election. "Just fair play that's all.
Sincerely yours,
Read Press Comments, and Mr. Lathrop's Platforn on Page Two
of the House, and it. will be noted that half the entire body were
farmers, and also that the bill was defeated by the farmers vote and
in about the same proportion as the Bankers, Lawyers or others. It
seems to the writer that this is a pretty fair division of membership,
from a farmer's viewpoint, namely half the body. Even granting
that, a vote against this particular bill was wrong (from your new
point) should a Member's whole Legislative career be judged only
upon a bill over which there was so much difference of opinion?
Is it not a fact that the real trouble with our grain marketing
problem is due to the fact that we dump 7" per cent of our crop onto
the market, in about fiO days, and to the further fact of the unlimited
"selling of futures," or in more common terms "grain gambling."
If we can work out some plan of bonding our elevators so that a
warehouse receipt, is absolutely safe, it will be possible to borrow on
them at a reasonable rate, if it js desired to hold grain for future
sale. This seems to me to give greater promise of relief than the
terminal plan, for the terminal is simply a handling house and does
not, as it appears to me, touch the two main troubles. I am certainly
in favor of any "safe and sane" project to better our marketing
conditions, for I am dependent, directly, and indirectly upon grain
raising and could not afford to be against the farmer's interest, but
let us not think that we can accomplish too much through legislation,
because the main elements of business success cannot be legislated into
existence. The field of co-operation in marketing offers encourage
ment and will probably be more successful than state-owned business
operated upon a political basis.
County's Representative
Candidate for Re-Election
I
A Personal Wort to the Voter of the
Sixteenth Legislative District:
Bills Introduced by Mr. Lath*
rop which became Laws.
House Bill No. "9._ Changes the interest rate during the redemp
tion period from 12 per cent to J) per cent. The old rate was an im
position and was an inducement for a mortgagee to foreclose. This
bill passed the Mouse at per cent hut was turned down by western
Senators, and had to compromise at 9 per cent, but this is a 25 per
cent reduction and does not put such a premium
011
II. Ij. No. 00. Provides that an adult member of the family must
sign the railroad receipt for intoxicating liquor. The blanket signing
ol receipts for liquor was found to be the greatest agency for boot
legging and this law was aimed at this practice. It was urged by the
law enforcement, officials who stated that the old system made it
extremely hard 1o enforce the law.
11. No. 11!'. The Mothers' Pension Law. This takes away the
humiliation of charity fro mtlie unfortunate mother, and enables the
hiidren to be raised under a good mother's care, and is an agency for
making belter citizens than under the old hap-ha/.ard way of looking
fter this class ol dependents. The best part of it. is that it is more
economical as well. The annual report of the officer in charge of the
mothers' pension law of Washington, reports that in that state it
only costs about (i0 per cent as much as to place the children in in
stitutions, and surely much better. If this helps remove care from
unfortunate mothers and helps to raise better citizens than would
otherwise have come up in our state, 1 shall feel amply repaid for my
efforts in this direction.
Concurrent, Resolution: known as the "Lathrop Resolution."
This provided for an investigating committee comprised of members
1 both houses to investigate the financial situation and offer suggest
ions tor betterment. It passed both Houses, six being appointed from
the Appropriation Committees, and they put. in a lot of work, and as a
result offered a good many bills to affect reforms and savings in
many instances. They recommended the Board of Regents
measure which was enacted, replacing each individual board with one
having general oversight. The big thing that was accomplished was
the Budget Commission Law which was drawn by this committee and
was passed. This provides that all the appropriations shall be pre
sented to the Budget Commission in advance of the Legislature, care
fully investigated, and Hie proposed appropriations placed before
the Legislature by 1he tenth day of Hie Session, thus replacing what
might be termed the old "pork barrel" method where members from
diflerent districts where stale institutions are located introduce bills
for their particular institution, and then the best politician or
"trader" get his bill through, maybe at the expense of some other
institution. This is one of the greatest advances made along financial
administrative lines in the history of our state. The replacement of
the mill tax levies by definite appropriations seems to be another im
portant step toward better and more efficient financial administration.
There were some 4f old members in the House, yet Mr. Lathrop
was appointed Chairman of one of the important, committees, and was
called on twice during the session to preside over the "Committee of
the Whole," these two things being very fair recognition of a new
member, serving a first term.
General Legislation
Tt is not possible to catalog the legislation, but some good work
was done along educational lines taxation, and along moral and
law enforcement lines. T11 these things every citizens is interested re
gardless of his occupation. But one reform was adopted that little is
heard of and to me it seems 1o be of very great, importance. That
is Ihe reform of the rules of proeeedurc, limiting the time a committee
must report and the time that appropriation and other bills could be
introduced. This resulted in preventing a blockade at the close of
the session, and in the 191") session, there was not a single bill that
was not, reported out of the committees and acted on. People have
read of committees smothering legislation, or of a Chairman refusing'
to report out a bill. There was not a single instance of this, nor was
there any "steering committee" at the close, and every bill passed by
a bonafide roll call. Nor was there 800 bills passed in the closing
days without the members knowing upon what they were voting.
Surely this is a reform that the people approve of. There are some
further improvements in methods of proccedure that have come to mo
which if adopted think would still more effectively administer the
business of the body, if re-elected should try and present them for
consideration of the Legislature.
Conclusion
In drawing this article to a close, want, to add a personal word.
I tried to serve honorably and as well as my judgment would permit.
NcVer did any person approach me with an improper suggestion as
to how I ought to vote 011 any measure, even though you may hear of
"wicked lobbies" who tried to corrupt the Legislature.
We cannot hope for great efficiency when there is no stability
to the membership and from r0 to 70 per cent retire each year also,
there should be some further reform in the rules of proceedure. Along
this line my mind has been running for some time and think I could
offer some suggestions that would help in some degree.
We certainly think every interest in the state should be represent
ed in the Legislature, and do not think any broad-minded farmer will
contend that, the entire membership ought to be farmers, For in
stance, the business in which the writer is engaged represents a total
investment, in our state of several millions of dollars would it be un
fair if they had a slight representation? Surely, every interest should
be included to get the fairest results, so that our laws 'may grant
equal rights to all" and most assuredly, "special privileges to none."
The writer does not claim to have made no mistakes, for, as
Theodore Roosevelt so aptly puts it, "Theonly man who makes no
mistakes is the fellow who does nothing," but in this connection
what you might, think was a mistake, your neighbor might feel was
the right thing to do. But 1 did have a desire to be of service to the
State in which have spent a quarter of a century, and hope that dur
ing the last sessions, may have contributed by "mite" in this regard.
(Continued on Pa|e 2)
.•v»*fkV f.
Vf-7
Price 5 Cts.
foreclosures.
T'.i
Vihm
01
fm
if
hr
Sli
IP
ill
:Ul
n,
i:r
ii
1
ml
1
1
I s'i
'Vli
I
