This Issue
21 Pages
CAILS0UI1HE GUARD
One Hundred Thousand Fighting Men
Added—Co. Ready to Leave For
Concentration Camp
President Wilson Sunday afternoon
issued a call on the national guard in
connection with the Mexican trouble.
The order had been expected for some
time and within an hour every Arm­
ory in the United States was bust­
ling with activity. Men gathered to
inspect the accoutrements and many
of them "slept on their arms," ready
to leave on short notice.
The companies were order to re­
cruit to minimum strength, which is
65 men to the company, but they will
be permitted to recruit to double this
strength if they desire. For instance,
Capt. Wheelon of Co. D., Minot, has
received instructions to recruit to 150.
North Dakota's National Guard,
comprising about 1200 men, are al­
ready on their way to the concentra­
tion camp at Devils Lake. The Graf­
ton company reached the camp ground
Tuesday. At this writing (Tuesday)
Co. D. has not yet received orders to
proceed to the grounds, but the men
are all at the Armory and will go for­
ward within a day or two.
When the orders were received to bo
in readiness, Co. D. comprised 60 mem­
bers, but Capt. Wheelon is recruiting
his company to a strength of 130.
There is some excitement in the city
and the boys are looking forward to
their long journey with great interest.
They all declare they are willing to go
to the front to duty's call.
One of the new members of Co. D.
has had 12 years' experience in the
British army. Messages have been re­
ceived from five of the former com­
pany members of Co. D., saying they
are on their way to Minot to join.
John Schlaberg arrived from Sherwood
Tuesday morning with his son, Harry,
a member of the company, who has
been at work on his father's large
farm. Applicants appear at the Arm
ory every few minutes, where they are
being examined by Dr. Brugman
Everything is confusion at the Arm­
ory. Some of the members are drill­
ing in front of the Armory, others are
drilling on the floor, others are getting
their blankets and other equipment in
readiness, but within a day or two
everything will be straightened out in
good shape. Capt. Wheelon says he
could leave at a moment's notice if or­
dered, but according to general orders,
the Captain is to notify the Adjutant
General, Thos. Thoraldson, the mo­
ment they are in readiness to proceed
to Devils Lake.
The boys are all wondering what
they can find to take along with them
as a mascot. Sargt. Lantz spied a
mule belonging to the negro minstrels
who appeared here Monday, but as he
was leading the animal away, the own­
ers objected so strenuously to the con­
fiscation of their property that he had
to give up the idea of claiming the
long-eared quadruped for the com­
pany's mascot.
Dr. Brugman examined 22 young
men this afternoon and out of the lot
only two were rejected, they having
defective eyesight. There appears to
be all nationalities represented in the
company. One of the Greek barbers
was accepted Tuesday.
The North Dakota regiment will be
in charge of Col. J. H. Fraine, who did
valiant service in the Philippines. Col­
onel Fraine is a candidate for the
nomination for governor. Whether
this will have any bearing on the cam­
paign, whether he will remain in the
race or not, is not known at this time.
Colonel Fraine declares that the com­
panies are all in good shape. The or­
der will call several prominent state
officials. Colonel Fraine is lieutenant
governor of North Dakota and Frank
Henry, another prominent guard offi­
cer, is state land commissioner. North
Dakota companies are located at
Jamestown, Fargo, Valley City, Bis­
marck, Hillsboro, Wahpeton, Dickin­
son, Mandan, Minot, Williston, Graf­
ton and Grand Forks. Grand Forks
has the machine gun squad and Lisbon
the regimental band and hospital
corps.
Minot plans on getting out with the
band when Co. D. starts off and giv­
ing the boys a great ovation. If or­
ders are received to leave hurriedly,
the people will be notified by blowing
the fire whistle four times, when a
great crowd will assemble at the Great
Northern station.
Calling out the guardsmen will
bring into action something like a
hundred thousand soldiers. They will
first do police duty along the border,
allowing several thousand seasoned
men to go over into Mexico and later
will cross the border themselves.
It is reported that a call will be is­
sued for volunteers. This country will
have its hands full clearing up the
Mexican atmosphere, which may re­
quire several years.
Uncle Sam's infantry soldiers are
required to carry with them consider­
able more equipment than the soldiers
of former wars did. These extra bur­
dens are not only for his use as a sol­
dier, but for the preservation of his
health and to make him as comfort­
able as possible while in his country's
defense.
That the care of the teeth is consid­
ered of supreme importance by mil­
itary authorities and the head of the
army, is indicated by the fact that each
soldier is expected to carry a tooth­
brush, and some tooth paste or pow­
der. This is a part of his everyday
equipment, and is prescribed for in the
army regulations.
Heavy Equipment
The private soldier, while on field
duty, carries usually between forty and
and fifty pounds of equipment, person­
al and otherwise. Besides his rifle and
belt, which usually holds 120 rounds of
cartridges, and his bayonet, he has a
canteen, a haversack, in which he has
a meat ration can, a knife, fork and
spoon, a blanket roll in which there is
a shelter tent with pole and pins for
setting it up, a poncho and blanket,
toilet articles, soap, toothbrush and
paste or powder and towels.
About one man out of every squad
in the company, making six or eight
men in a company, carry additional
burdens.
Carries Intrenching Tools
These have with them entrenching
tools, consisting of an entrenching
shovel and carrier or pick, mattocks,
and carrier, while others have wire
cutters and carrier. These soldiers
are called into service quickly for in
trenchment work.
The Springfield rifle, with which the
troops are equipped, is in itself a hea­
vy piece of musketry. It fires a 30
caliber, steel-pointed bullet. The artil­
lery soldiers carry smaller burdens
than the infantrymen, but also carry
pistols. They have no enthrenching
tools, but have the shelter tents and
the personal equipment the same as
the infantry arm of the service.
The North Dakota troops are not in
possession of all the new equnpment,
as it has not been issued to them yet.
This includes entrenchment tools and
personal equipment mentioned, but
this will be issued to them as soon as
they are sworn into the service.
In case that Co. D. is not up to full
war strength of 150 men, by the time
it is ready to proceed to Devils Lake,
a recruiting officer will remain in Mi­
not to get the additional men. The In­
dependent learns that every one of the
twelve companies of the state will be
recruited to 150.
Adjutant Issues Orders
The following order set the wheels
in motion:
Bismarck, N. D., June 19, 1916.
Commanding Officer Co. D.,
Minot, N. D.
In compliance with the war depart­
ment's order calling on the governor
of North Dakota to mobilize the Na­
tional guard of this state, you will
assemble your organization at once
and recruit to minimum strength.
Steps will be taken to furnish trans­
portation to place of mobilization. Ad­
vise this office when accomplished.
THOMAS THARALDSON,
AdJutant General.
IIALV02 L. HALVOBSON
Democratic Candidate for Governors
A staunch progressive with an able
executive record. Four years Presi­
dent of Minot City Commission. A
well known Democrat, twice nominated
by his party for
Congress
and once for
State Treasurer. A forceful publio
speaker of recognized ability. If nom
latod will make a etate-wlde cam­
paign for election and command the
united support of his party.
A vote for Halvorson means party
unity and Democratic success in
November.
BIG STOCK SHOW
IN JULY ATTRACT­
ING ATTENTION
Minot Has Inaugaruted a Popular
Event—Entries Coming in From
Eastern Part of State
Evidence is piling up every day that
the Northwestern Stock Show is going
to be one of the most popular events
that Minot has ever inaugurated. The
mere announcement that the show
would be held has brought a large
number of inquiries from all over the
state, even as far east as Larimore,
and with the sending out of the premi­
um lists last Saturday it is expected
that the Secretary's mail will be quite
heavy from now on.
All advertising matter will be off the
press this week, and record time will
be made in getting this matter into the
hands of the stockraisers of the state.
Minot is ideally situated for the pur­
pose of holding an annual stock show,
being the center of a vast country that
has many stock raisers, and it is safe
to say that before the doors of the
Curling Rink open on the 3rd of July
that every pen and stall will be filled.
Already arrangements are being made
for a large tent so that there will be
no chance of not having room enough
for the exhibitors.
Newspapers all over the northwest­
ern part of the state are giving the
show wide publicity for they realize
that stock raising is here to stay and
that farmers who are engaging in it
are entitled to support and encourage­
ment.
At this time it is well to state that
the Secretary has a supply of entry
blanks on hand for all those who need
them. One blank was sent out with
each premium list, and an effort was
made to reach all the breeders of fine
stock in the state, but there may be
others that did not get the lists for the
reason that they have been in the busi­
ness only a short time. Address your
letters to the Secretary, Northwestern
Stock Show, Minot, N. D., and you will
receive a prompt reply with the need­
ed information.
FRAZIER SPECIAL
TRAIN WILL AR­
RIVE FRIDAY
Big Nonpartisan Meeting to be Held in
This City That Evening—Spe­
cial Touring the State
The Frazier special train, which is
making a tour of the state, will arrive
in Minot, according to schedule, Fri­
day, June 23, at 5:35 o'clock in the aft­
ernoon, to remain here for the night.
Plans are being made for a big meet­
ing here that evening. The probabili­
ties are that the speaking will take
place at a platform to be built at the
G. N. station. The train will come
from the east, stopping at Surrey,
Norwich, and other stations during the
day.
If the weather is favorable, it is es­
timated that three thousand people will
gather here to meet the train. A
large number of farmers from station-:
down the line will come to the city on
THE WARD COUNTY INDEPENDENT
THE INDEPENDENT HAS THE LARGEST CIRCULATION OF ANY WEEKLY PAPER IN THE STATE
Vol. 15: No. 9. Minot, Ward County, North Dakota, Thursday, June 22, 1916 Subscription $ 1 Per Annum
NO COUNTY CANDIDATES INDORSED.
In spite of the fact that the Leader has en­
deavored to make it plain that the League has
MADE NO INDORSEMENTS for any but state
and legislative offices, stories of misunderstanding
of this point keep coming in constantly. It may
be that some candidates are fostering this false
impression and doing it deliberately. Candidates
who do this run the risk of having it pointed out
that they are MISREPRESENTING the League
for selfish ends, conduct which may PREJUDICE
LEAGUE MEMBERS AGAINST THEM. The
League's fight has nothing to do with county poli­
tics—nor with national politics—and no indorse­
ments for county offices nor United States senate
or congress have been made, nor will any be made.
Nonpartisan Leader, June 15, 1916.
C. J. FISK
Chief Justice, Supreme Court, Candidate for Re-Election.
Ten years' experience on the District Bench now completing tenth
year on the Supreme Bench. His record Is a pledge for the continued ad­
ministration of justice In accordance witb law. Look for his name on the
"Judiciary Ballot," and mark an "X" after it.
the train as well. A band or two will
play at the stations and the visitors
will be given an auto ride about the
city.
Among the speakers will be Lynn J.
Frazier, Nonpartisan candidate for
governor, James Manahan, ex-con
gressman, and the various league can­
didates.
Members and friends are requested
to ride on the train and meet the can­
didates.
Young Lothario Got Into Trouble
A young Lothario, who hied himself
to the girls' dormitory of one of our
educational institutions, there to whis­
tle sentimental tunes to his lady love,
at the most unseasonable hour of
o'clock in the morning, was confront­
ed by the janitor who, taking him for
some dangerous prowler, dealt him a
vicious blow behind the ear.
Dr. Pence Wins State Shoot
Dr. J. R. Pence won the McCutcheon
cup at the state shooting tournament
at1 Lisbon last week. The doctor has
developed into one of the state's very
best shots.
KHIDICniSPECUL
MADE 0»EM!HT
VISIT IN MINOT
Candidate for Governor, With 150
Friends, Stopped Monday Night
in Minot on Five-Day Tour
The Eurdick special train which
started out from Williston Monday
morning, arrived in this city that aft­
ernoon at 4:50 o'clock, remaining here
for the night.
The train carried a hundred and fifty
prominent citizens of Williams and
McKenzie counties, a very large
pari
of them being prominent business and
professional men of Williston. The
train stopped at Tioga, Ray. White
Earth, Stanley and Berthold.
The famous Williston Concert Band
accompanied the train, playing
every stop. The cir'z"npaid for ihc
expense of the train. Tl citizens an
making a five-dav tour, making a
swing of the state.
On board the train is a printing
press, from which is issued a paper at
many of the stations. The paper is
known as "Burdick's Bronco Buster."
The editorial staff comprises L. J. Sil
jan, C. L. Marshall and Glen R. Town
send. The little publication is very
breezy, giving some good Burdick pol­
itical dope, as well as comments con­
cerning the towns through which the
train passes.
Burdick was given a flattering re­
ception at Minot. A crowd of several
hundreds gathered at the opera house
where E. R. Sinkler had charge of the
meeting. Attorney Wysong welcomed
the visitors to Minot. George Shafer,
states attorney of McKenzie county,
responded on behalf of the visitors.
Senator Davis of Sheridan county, who
met the train at Minot, was one of the
speakers.
U. L. Burdick, candidate for govern­
or, made the principal address. He
discussed the Nonpartisan league's
propaganda and explained why he is
opposed to building state-owned ele­
vators and packing plants. He would
keep business out of the hands of pol­
iticians. He urges the farmers to stick
to the original co-operative plans of
the American Society of Equity,
which he advocates. He declares that
those who voted for him two years
ago must have changed if they will not
vote for him now, for he is just the
same as he was then. He declared
that the Nonpartisan program, even
though it should reduce taxes ten per
cent, would make a difference of only
40 cents in the average man's state
taxes, and declared that those who
joined the league would still be out
SS.OO. Burdick spoke well personally
of both his opponents, Frazier and
Fraine. He stated that it looked like
the fight is between himself and Fraz­
ier. He made a good impression.
G. M. Hecht Weds Sharon Girl
G. M. Ilccht, son of Colonel and Mrs.
H. J. Ilecht, was united in marriage
.June 8 to Miss Mae Long, at the home
of the bride's parents at Sharon, N. 13.
The happy couple went on their honey­
moon to Jamestown and other points
in the southern part of the state, ar­
riving in Minot several days ago to re­
ceive the best wishes of a host of
friends. The groom expects to build
a home in this city.
RURAL CARRIER ARRESTED
John P. Snow, a Lakoti rural mail
carrier, was taken to Fargo by Dep­
uty U. S. Marshal Thorwald Mostad
last week. He was held to federal
court, charged with rifling the mails.
It is said that Snow would take money
from mail boxes left by farmers for
money orders, leaving them the re­
ceipts, but not sending in the orders.
JUDCE i£. V. BURKE
Of our Supreme Court
Deserves a seruiid term, liaised upon
a North Dakota farm. Kesident of the
Btate since childhood (45 year.?). Looks
to voters for support—not to politi­
cians. Has done his full share in keep­
ing the court work up to date. Of rip
experience—but not too old to do
work. Why change?
U. 8. TROOPS
Uncle Sam Told to Send no More Sol
diers Into Mexico and to Move
all There to the Border
It is believed that war with Mexico
is inevitable. This country does not
desire any trouble with our unruly
neighbor on the south, we merely wish
to be left alone and insist on putting
a stop to the brigandage which exists
along the border. Carranza, the Mex­
ican president, has notified this gov­
ernment to send no more troops into
Mexico, and to move out what troops
we already have there.
This country has flatly refused to
do this and it is expected momentari­
ly that Carranza will declare war. Per­
shing's columns, which are far in the
interior of Mexico are practically sur­
rounded by Carranza soldiers, but up'
to Tuesday no attacks had been made
on them. Pershing has paid no atten
tion to the Mexican orders and Tues-,
day started out after a band of ban­
dits.
FIRST
SECTION
LEAGUE CANDIDATES
ARE OPTIMISTIC
Headquarters at Fargo Claim Victory
for Most of the League
Candidates
The following communication sent
out from the Nonpartisan League
headquarters at Fargo makes claims
for the Nonpartisan League candi­
dates in many sections of the state:
Fargo, June 20.—Conservative esti­
mates of Nonpartisan league strength,
pared down heavily, and discounted in
all instances where generalities had
been indulged in by workers, indicat­
ed, according to announcement at
league headquarters today, that the
league expects a vote of from 09 to 75
per cent of the ballots cast June 28 in
all counties. In many cases the local
estimates greatly exceeded those ac­
cepted totals, and there were literally
scores of precincts in which a unani­
mous vote for league candidates was
predicted. These were cast aside in
making the estimate.
In Ransom county, figures indicate
a little better than 70 per cent of those
outside the league will vote for its
candidates, and the enthusiasm there
during the past week shows, it is thot,
that the membership will vote solid.
League buttons were to be seen every­
where, and were conspicuous in the
cities. In Nelson county 09 per cent
of the non-league vote is counted as
certain for the ticket. In McHenry
county 33 precincts showed 74 per cent
of the non-membership vote, while the
enthusiasm was boundless at several
gatherings in adjacent counties. Stuts­
man county showed 78 per cent with
figures from representative communi­
ties throughout the county.
Throughout the entire two northern
tiers of counties, including a repre­
sentative count in Williams and Di­
vide, league scouts this week have siz­
ed up the situation and concluded that
the McHenry county situation is a fair
average that will hold good from the
Red river to Montana in that latitude.
Southwest of the Missouri, where work
among the German speaking element
has been meeting with pronounced
success for several weeks, league can­
didates are regarded as safe. The oth­
er third of the state, where organiza­
tion has been most complete, is re­
garded as home territory for the
league, the enormous attendance at re­
cent picnics and tremendous enthusi­
asm for the speakers being taken as
conclusive.
Summer Session of the Model School
The Minot State Normal school will
again condict a Model School in con­
nection with its summer term. There
will be five teachers in charge, three
of them being the regular critic teach­
ers. Miss Kane, who assisted last year,
will assist again this year. The fifth
teacher is to be a Miss Agnes McDon­
ald, a well trained and experienced
teacher from Kansas.
The summer session of the Model
School will open Monday, June 26, and
continue for six weeks. The school
will be in session each school day from
8:30 until 12:30. No tuition is charg­
ed during the summer session and the
I school _is open to any and all children
I who wish instruction in the elementary
I school subjects. Only one limitation
is placed upon the attendance of pu­
pils and that is the limitation of ca­
pacity. Xo more pupils can be accept­
ed after the five rooms have been filled
up.
Books and other regular school sup­
plies will be furnished all pupils who
enroll. Opportunity will be given pu­
pils, both to review subjects in which
they are deficient and to take up the
work of the grade to which they have
been promoted.
This summer term is of distinct ad­
vantage to pupils who for any reason
have fallen behind in their studies.
Special attention will be given to pu­
pils of this sort by the formation of
special review classes. Practically all
the time of the school will be spent on
study of the fundamentals, reading,
writing, spelling, arithmetic, geogra­
phy and history.
In the past many children have at­
tended summer Model School who were
not behind in their subjects. They sim­
ply preferred to be in school. Such
pupils are desired. The six weeks ad­
ditional training will help them out
later.
Past experience has shown that
more pupils have besired to attend the
Summer School than could be accom­
modated. Therefore, parents who con­
template sending their children to the
summer term should see to it that the
children enter the first day. Parents
wishing to enroll in advance may do
so by communicating with the director.
Wm. F. Clarke.
Attend Republican Convention
Chas. A. Grow and A. M. Thompson
have returned from Chicago where
they were interested spectators at the
republican convention. They secured
good seats in the convention and saw
"Uncle Joe" Cannon with his large,
black cigar, and many other promi­
nent republicans who went to make up
the national show.
Mr. Grow states that it was the con­
census of opinion at the convention
that Hughes and Fairbanks look like
a winning ticket, especially since the
prospects are that Roosevelt and the
other Bull Moosers will come into line.
In New York, betting is 10 to 7 on
Hughes.
