VOL. XXII, NO. 1.
Washington, June 21.—Strong pres
sure is being brought to bear upon
Carranza by representatives of Euro
pean powers to prevent him from forc
ing a break with the United States.
Indirect reports reaching the state de
partment today told of these efforts,
and said there was a possibility that
they would be successful.
An overnight dispatch from Special
Agent Rodgers at Mexico City, re
ceived at the state department today,
said arrangements were concluded
satisfactory for a special train to car
rv out Americans and foreigners to
Vera Cruz. He reiterated the hope
that it start today, taikng manjr of
the 600 Americans still in the capital.
A number of dispatches were re
ceived from consular officers through
out Mexico. They agreed that ten
sion everywhere is keyed to a high
pitch. Another message from Rodg
ers said the train leaving Mexico City
yesterday carried a special car with
30 Americans, mostly women.
Agencies of the entente allies are
understood to be active for peace, par
ticularly as they believe German in
fluence sought to inflame the Mexican
government against the United States,
with a view of preventing this coun
try from gathering in the trade for
merly controlled by Germany in Mex
ico, South and Central America.
Officials were interested today in
General Pershing's report to General
Funston that a body of American
troops had been sent northward in the
direction where the Mexicans were
reported to be and in violation of the
warning by General Trevino against
such a movement. No Mexicans were
found, the body safely returning.
Marching orders for national guard
organizations are still held up at the
war department pending the comple
tion of mobilization of troops at the
state camps. Just as soon as a suffi
cient number of guardsmen have been
mustered into the federal service the
war department wil act on General
Funston's report of yesterday, stating
the number of units he desired, and
to what points he desired them for
warded.
Question of War or Peace Up To
Carranza
Washington, June 21.—Question of
war or peace today depended upon the
attitude of General Carranaz" toward
the American note refusing to with
draw the troops. Before the grist of
the day the reports began coming into
the various departments, high officials
admitted privately that they look for
war, although care was taken to avoid
any formal expressions or acts which
might appear forerunners of a dec
laration of war. Military authorities
looked for the defacto government's
attitude in Mexico threatening troop
movements near the border today, and
in preparation for these the war de
partment is getting ready to act on
Funston's request for the immediate
dispatch of a number of national
guard units to the border.
It was said that Secretary Baker
and the president probably would de
termine what organizations should be
sent. Several days may elapse be
fore any g-reat number of militia
units can be mustered into the fed
eral service. Reports of great en
thusiasm and rapid recruiting con
tinue coming in from many states
today.
Should the Mexicans attack the
American column, it is probable that
a general rapid advance will be or
dered from the border to the line, per
haps 100 or more miles south of bor
der. This line will be fortified and
held until volunteer reinforcements
become available. Thus the fighting
will be thrown into the enemy's terri
tory and the border protected against
further bandit attacks by a thorough
policing of the country behind the
main line.
INCREASED LOANS TO FARMERS
In his message to the legislative
assembly Governor Hanna recom
mended that an appropriation be made
for the purpose of studying the rural
credit problem, this recommendation
was not acted upon, but it undoubted
ly offered the best solution of the
problem of any state in the Union.
The original law permitting school
funds to be loaned upon farm lands
was passed in 1897, and the first bill
upon that subject ever submitted to
the state legislature was introduced
by Governor Hanna when a member
of the House in 1895, the law jroing
into effect in 1897. When he became
Governor in 1913 the law had been
in effect 16 years and the number of
farm loans was 999, the amount be
ing $1,654,957.00. Today there are
2609 loans and the amount loaned is
$4,188,740.00. In brief during the
three years of Governor Hanna's ad
ministration 1610 loans were made as
against 999 for 16 years previous—an
increase of 161 percent the amount of
loans being increased 153 percent.
These loans are well scattered over
the state, every county has received
its apportionate part of the money
and the farmers
benefit of this low rate of interest.
State
EUROPEAN POWERS WOULD
PREVENT WAR IF POSSIBLE
Question of War Directly up to Car
ranza—Officials Look for Break
Historical Sac Xft
Washington, June 17—General Fun
ston advised the war department to
day that he was informed by General
Bell at El Paso that General Pershing
had been warned by General Trevino,
the Carranza commander at Chihua
hua, that any movement of the Amer
ican expeditionary to the south, west
or east, would be the signal for an
attack by the Mexican forces.
Wait Developments
Administration officials today are
watching with interest developments
in the Mexican situation. The de
velopments of the past 12 hours have
caused some uneasiness. The chief
interest is centered in Carranza's
threat, reported from Chihuahua yes
terday as having been transmitted to
General Pershing through General
Trevino to start active warfare if the
American troops in Mexico are moved
to any direction except northward to
ward the border.
Reply Is Delayed
Meanwhile the dispatch of the Uni
ted States' reply to Carranza's latest
note, which is virtually completed, is
being withheld pending the receipt of
detailed information regarding the
Carranza report, and also regarding
the latest depredations of Mexican
bandits.
No word has come so far from Gen
eral Pershing himself, but even be
fore the arrival of General Funston's
message the department officials were
inclined to credit the newspaper dis
patches regarding the Trevina warn
ing.
Will Hold Position
Preparations are being made for
any eventuality. General Pershing
is ready to deal with any force sent
against him. It is probable, however,
that he will hold his present lines, and
make no move to precipitate hostili
ties.
Funston Waiting
San Antonio, Tex., June 17.—Gen
eral Funston and his staff gave care
ful attention to activities of the ban
dits along the border, but far greater
interepf, i" being displayed in the at
titude assumed by the defacto govern
ment troops. Threats apparently
coming from the defacto government
regarding the actions of the Ameri
can troops, which would be consider
ed an overt act failed to disturb Gen
eral Funston or his staff, who let it
be known that the same methods of
pursuit would be given regardless of
where the bandit trails lead. General
Funston's army of 50,000 has been so
disposed along the border that swift
punitive action could be taken if nec
essary.
The arrival at Daredo of Consul
General Hanna of Montgomery de
veloped the fact that the state depart
ment had ordered him and J. R. Silli
man, consul ta Saltillo to the Ameri
can side. Their withdrawal leaves no
consular representatives of the Uni
ted States at any intex-ior points ex
cept an agent at Mexico City.
Hanna Not Talkative
Laredo. Tex., June 17.—Phillip C.
Hanna, United States consul general
at Monterey, one of the two remain
ing- consuls in Mexico, accompanied by
a half dozen other Americans, arrived
here today. He was reticent as to'the
object of his visit. Asked in regard
to conditions in Mexico and the prob
able length of his stay, Consul Hanna
replied
"Everything is quiet down the line.
I may remain two or three days."
It has been known for some time
that Consul Hanna was instructed by
the state department that he could
leave the post anytime at his own
discretion.
Well informed Mexicans arriving
Troops Concentrated
here from the interior confirm re
ports that over 5,000 Carranza troops
passed Villaldama 110 miles south of
Laredo, going northward.
WINS TRIP AGAIN
Sam Scott has again qualified for
the $200,000 club with the Mutual Life
Insurance Company of New York and
will be one of the number getting a
free trip. The meeting of the suc
cessful insurance writers is to be held
in New York City on the 27th and
28th of this month and Mr. Scott ex
pects to leave the last of the week.
The last meeting was held in San
Francisco in August 1915 and Mr.
Scott was one of those attending that
meeting.
ODD FELLOWS AT RAY
About forty members of the Wil
liston I. O. O. F. lodge went to Ray
Monday evening on a visit to the Ray
lodge. They had a great time and
the Ray members proved themselves
royal entertainers. After the meet
ing a special show was put on for
them in the Movie house at twelve
o'clock.
LUMBER SHIPPED FOR BRIDGE
The lumber for the pontoon bridge
has been shipped and the hardware
ordered. Part of the lumber was
shipped on the 12th and the Bridge
have derived the I Company hope to have work started
1
by the first of July at the latest. next htye receiving $1904.45,
ENDORSED IN ALL QUARTERS
Williston and Williams county may
well be proud of the genuine and in
creasing sentiment for our citizen,
Usher L. Burdick, for governor. Edi
torial and personal endorsements of
the man and his stand on the vital
issues of the campaign have come
from all quarters of the state insuch
numbers that praise from home is al
most superfluous.
We know the man—a product of our
state and for six years a resident of
our community—we know the meas
ure of his ability and courage, his in
dependence of unwholesome influence
his sincerity in his sustained, consis
tent fight for the things North Da
kota and it's agricultural interests
needs.
Mr. Burdick is progressive enough
to satisfy all fairminded people and
conservative enough to suit all but
the ultra-conservative. He is the logi
cal man to nominate for governor on
the republican ticket, June 28, and
seems reasonably certain to receive
the honor. Williston and Williams
county may be depended on to con
tribute their part to this end.—Cava
lier County Republican.
BURDICK SENTIMENT
ING STATE
The voter who gives thought and
examination to it—and never before
have the voters thought more about
the qualifications and past records of
candidates—finds that the business of
the state under Governor Hanna has
been so carefully handled that TO
DAY THE STATE DEBT IS THE
SMALLEST SINCE STATEHOOD
and even smaller than it was for many
years before it was admitted as
state. The state debt today is about
one half as large as it was when Gov
ernor Hanna took office. Aud during
the past three years the tax levy for
state purposes has been the lowest in
our history. Mr. Hanna recommended
and secured the passage of numerous
good laws—laws to protect and pre
serve wild game— the Blue Sky
Law, which has saved the people of
the state large sums of money by pro
tecting them against wildcat and
stock jobbing schemes—the law to es
tablish a Budget system for state ap
propriations:—the Board of Repents
law which has been a long step toward
better and more economical adminis
tration of state educational institu
tions—The absent voters law—which
at this particular time with 1200 of
our best young men leaving the state
LARGE SCHOOL APPORTION
MENT
The state and county school appor
tionment for this county for the month
of May amounted to $23,675.28. This
is the largest for the year and is ap
portioned among the various school
districts of the county according to
the manner of school children in each
district. The amount allowed for each
pupil is $5.52 and Williston with its
890 pupils gets $4912.80. The Nesson
district which includes Ray comes
RECRUITS WANTED BY CO. E. REPORT AT THE ARMORY
VOTERS ARE SWINGING TO BURDICK
SWEEP-
As the days of the primary cam
paign draw to a close, the strength
of Usher L. Burdick, candidate for
governor, is becoming more and more
evident. Mr. Burdick is putting up
an aggressive campaign. He is in the
fight to win out, and he is gaining
votes every day.
Today, one week before the primary
election, the fight is between Burdick
and Frazier.
One of these two men will be the
next Republican candidate for gover­
Reports coming from all parts of
the state indicate that Governor L. B.
Hanna will be the nominee on the Re
publican ticket for United States Sen
ator. As the day of the primaries
draws near every voter is considering
the question of voting more seriously
and is looking over the work accom
plished in the past by the various
candidates. In doing this he finds a
splendid record of actual accomplish
ment made by Governor Hanna. As
Representative and Senator in our
State Legislature, as member of Com
gress and as Governor he was ever
and always doing things—getting re
sults—for North Dakota. Much of
the best legislation on the statue
books of our state—laws that are of
real benefit and help to all the peo
ple alike—were first introduced and
urged to passage by Senator Hanna
while he was in the State Legislature.
While serving the state as member of
Congress he took a leading and active
part in securing national legislation
that has aided greatly in building up
North Dakota. The homesteaders, es
pecially of the western half of the
state know and appreciate how much
he has done to help them—individual
ly and collectively—and they have al
ways been glad to support him. Al
though his service at Washington was
comparatively short Governor Hanna,
through his recognized ability, never
theless received appointments on the
committees of most importance to
North Dakota and was looked up to
as authority on all matters of interest
to this locality. He added greatly to
the prestage and good standing of
North Dakota at the National Capitol.
LOOKS GOOD FOR GOVERNOR B. HANNA
at their country's call, gives them the t0r, which he is so well qualified by
right to cast their ballot—was recom
mended by Governor Hanna. He was
also the first Governor to recommend
that the contract rate of interest be
reduced from 12 to 10 percent and this
law was passed. At all times has he
nor, and The Forum believes that man
will be Burdick.
Sentiment for the Williston farmer
is simply sweeping the state. Farm
ers, businessmen, laboring men—
every class and type of citizen—are
back of his candidacy. He stands for
clean government, for sane legisla
tion in favor of the people, and the
independent voters of North Dakota,
the sturdy clear-brained thinkers who
are always to be depended upon to
keep their heads and vote as they be
lieve right, are convinced that he is
the logical candidate in the present
political crisis.
It is the sentiment of the people
who have not been carried away by
factional feeling, that Burdick is the
one man on whom all the people may
unite. He is the man to harmonize
all elen-^nts and to save the state of
North Dakota from a setback from
which it would take years to recover.
The •eception he is receiving on his
trip through the state is one of the
most remarkable political demonstra
tions in the history of North Dakota.
Everywhere he goes he is met by
cheering crowds. The people are
simply flocking to his standard.
The cause is not hard to find. The
people believe in him. They know he
nas always been noted for his inde
pendence of political control. He
abhors, what every, right-thinking
North Dakota voter abhors in politics
—the political boss. The people know
that if he is elected he will wear no
man's collar. The rule of the people
will be supreme with Burdick as chief
executive.
Placed in the governor's chair he
will have "malice toward none, but
charity for all," and all the people will
get a square deal. That is why all
classes of citizens are swinging into
line back of the big, home-grown,
North Dakota farmer.—Fargo Forum.
had the interests of the tax payers
at heart and at al ltimes has he work
de for a better business administra
tion in the peoples public affairs.
During this and every other cam
paign he has been in^ Governor Hanna
has been more than fair to his op
ponents. Never has he uttered—or
allowed to be uttered—one word of
personal abuse. A clean, moral, up
right man himself, he has always per
sued and insisted upon honorable
means and methods only. The circular
which^r* sspeared recently und®r the
heading "Information to the Tax Pay
ers of North Dakota" and which pur
ports to have been written by the
notorious "Jim" Shea, Mr. McCum
ber's campaign manager, would go to
prove that Mr. McCumber or his man
agers are following a different policy.
The feeling over the state is that
this attack—being without foundation
in fact—is therefore entirely without
excuse and should be altogether be
neath the dignity of a United States
Senator who represents the people of
this state. It reminds one of petty
ward politics and goes far to con
vince the voter that a Senator who
would even sanction such an attack
should himself be retired once and
for all to private life.
To the people of Williston, Williams
and McKenzie counties, Governor
Hanna is such a familiar figure that
almost every one knows or feels he
knows him personally. And that
Fame feeling is strong over the entire
state. Instead of growing away from
the people—except at election time—
as some public officials are wont to do
—Governor Hanna has constantly
grown closer to them. Each and
every year—in season and out of
season—has he traveled over the
state, into every section of it, at the
invitation of the people living there,
and in that way familiarized himself
with the needs and problems of North
Dakota as few men have ever been
able to do. Governor Hanna is easy
to approach, easy to talk to, always
ready to listen and always glad to
help where help is needed. Owning
and operating two of the largest and
best farms in the state he knows all
the trials and hardships the farmer
has to contend with. And knowing
these trials and hardships he has
made it part of his earnest life work
to better farming conditions in North
Dakota.
Through twenty years of public ser
vice to his state Governor Hanna has
been tried by the people who have
elected him to represent them and the
best evidence of their satisfaction
with his service lies in the fact that
they have never once failed to sup
nort him for reelection. Each year
that he has come before them and
to a
voters of the state again endorsed
him. Now that he asks their support
for the office of United States Sena-
ability and experience to fill—there
is no reason to doubt—but every rea
son to believe—Governor Hanna will
once more receive an unqualified en
forcement from all classes of people
throughout all sections of the state.
RAY MAN DIES
Elmer Smith, chief of Police of Ray
died very suddenly in one of the Ray
hotels last Saturday morning about 9
o'clock of heart failure. Funeral ser
vices were held Monday and the re
mains buried in the Ray cemetery.
Elmer Smith, was an old resident
of the state being here since 1902. He
lived at Russell for some time and
was chief at Minot during the I. W.
W. trouble. He leaves four sons to
mourn his sudden death.
Graphic
WILLISTON, WILLIAMS COUNTY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, JUNE 22, 1916. $1.50 PER YEAR IN ADVANCE
Wiliston, N. D.
A meeting of the executive council
followed the adjournment of the con
vention at which W. C. McFadden,
Fargo, was re-elected secretary of the
association W. H. Hanks, Powers
Lake, was made treasurer, and W. C.
McClintock, Rugby, retiring president
was elected chairman of the council.
Fargo Gets Meeting
Fargo was awarded the 1917 con
vention. Wahpeton submitted an in
vitation but Fargo was the only city
which received a motion for the meet
ing. The Grand Forks delegation did
not present an invitation as the state
association has met there since Fargo
last had it.
Following the adjournment of the
convention L. S. Crawford, of Sentinel'
Butte, president of the state board of
regents, presented Mr. McClintock
with a beautiful pin as an apprecia
tion of the association for his work as
president.
Resolutions as adopted called for a
decision by the courts of law pertain
ing to bank examiners fees. The as
sociation went on record as favoring
the enactment of an adequate and
workable deposit guaranty law.
Addresses Today
At the opening session addresses
were given by Geo. E. Allen, educa­
WILLISTON MILITIA BOYS
ANSWER CALL OF PRESIDENT
War Clouds Over Mexican Border Re
sponsible for Call. Leave Saturday
SERGEANTS:
Harvey, G. G.
Wannagat, Otto
Theisen, J. L.
Wool ridge, W. M.
Anderson, E. O.
Erickson, Carl
Sjs sis
OFFICERS AND ENLISTED MEMBERS OF COMPANY E.
JUNE TWENTY-TWO, 1916.
Captain—II. R. Evans.
Jeffrey, E. W.—1st Lieutenant.
Jeffrey, VV. W.—2nd Lieutenant
CORPORALS:
Metzger, H. A.
Wilkinson, Geo.
Jeffrey, Lester
Halverson, H.
Craven, B.
Halverson, E.
COOK—Nehring, E.
PRIVATES:
Barnfather, R. R. Bell, C. Bradley Charnholm, Walter Collier,
Wm. Craven, T. Evans, C. E. Evans, F. W. Francis, E. Field,
Steve Grover, Ieslie Harvey, F. S. Holland, R. Hardaway, L. M.
Jaynes, L. Jaynes, R. Jackson, Cecil Koppang, H. K. Kingston,
Leo Monson, L. Mathews, J. C. McDonald, Howard Marston,
D. McWilliams, S. S. Personius, G. Puffer, H. Petty, L. W.
Randolph, B. Roed, G. Roed, C. M. Salseth, Axel Sheldall, G.
Shikany, S. Smith, C. E. Slater, E. Schitt, H. Taylor Uhlman,
E. Wilder, C. A. Shanks, L. Evans, H. P. Brook, Arthur E.
Gardner, A. C. Brawley, M. G.j Chambers, W. J. Carpentier, W.
J. Clark, Mike Carpentier, Phil Alexander, Jesse Ellis, L. R.
Hahm, Christie Warner, Leo Shue, J. M. Holloway, J. W.
He
In response to the Call of the President Governor Hanna ordered out the
members of the National Guard in this state Monday. When word reached
Williston it created a great deal of excitement and Capt. Evans and his offi
cers have been on the jump ever since getting ready to leave. A call has
been made for recruits as the companies have been asked to recruit up to full
war strength of 150 men. The minimum strength is sixty-five and there are
that many men in now with a number of applications out but not returned..
The names of the officers and men enrolled up to noon today are given above..
The officers are discouraging married men from joining and this has de
layed the recruiting to some extent. The company expects to leave here
Saturday morning for Fort Lincoln near Bismarck where other companies
from various parts of the state are being assembled. When the companies
are in camp at Fort Lincoln they will be given strenuous training. It will,
not be known for some time whether or not they will be called to the Mexican
Border but in case war is declared they will be liable to be moved in a short
time.
COMPANY WILL GIVE PLAY
The members of Company E have been working on their play for some
time and will stage it tomorrow night. There was some talk of dropping it
but the demand from the citizens was so great that the members decided to
go ahead with it. Williston should give tne boys a packed house tomorrow
nignt as it will be'in the nature of a fare
their countries call.
SUPPER AND DANCE FOR COMPANY E
The citizens of Williston are planning a supper for the members of Com
pany E and the ladies of the various churches are busy preparing the good
things that will be served tomorrow evening in the Odd Fellows nail. This
supper will be given before the Company play and after the play there will
be a dance with the members of the company as the guests of honor.
WIRE FROM SPECIAL TO MEMBERS OF CO. E
Capt. Henry R. Evans and Members
Williston National Guard,
ENDED AT MINOT
J. E. PHELAN OF BOWMAN IS
CHOSEN PRESIDENT FOR THE
COMING YEAR
Minot, N. D.j June 10.—At the clos
ing session this morning of the an
nual convention of the North Dakota
Bankers association the following of
ficers were elected:
President, J. E. Phelan, Bowman
vice president, C. R. Green, Cavalier.
Mehbershifl of executive council,
second district, E. Beissbarth Brins
made third, H. W. Garey, Farj
fourth, G. L. Strodeck, Cogswell fifth,
A. P. Hanson, Litchville southwest
ern, W. F. Hanks, Powers Lake
northwestern, M. C. Bacheller, Grand
Forks Missouri slope, B. B. Marks,
Brinsmade.
He
Well to the boys who are answering
Minot, N. D., June 19, 1916.
We sincerely regret that war seems inevitable. We would like to be
home to honor you and your departure. In this message we wish to re
new our allegiance to this great nation and feel proud that its honor is to
be defended by the best that Williston and North Dakota can give. We..
wish you God speed. Everyone on the special joins in this message.
USHER L. BURDICK
tional director of the American Insti
tute of Banking, J. E. Phelan, of Bow
man, N. D., and Gray Warren, transit
manager of the Minneapolis reserve
bank. Mr. Allen spoke on the value of."
banking education and described the
course offered by the institute. Mr.
Phelan gave an interesting account of
the American banking system, and
Mr. Warren explained the action of
the federal reserve bank in deciding
to pay all checks after July 17. The
Minneapolis and St. Paul contingents
left in special cars on the Soo line at
noon and the Grand Forks party
leaves on No. 30 later in the day.
The Fargo party which came up
with the Grand Forks men will re
turn on No. 2.
BURDICK ENDORSES SCACE
A. E. Scace, the farmer candidate
for the Legislature from Williams
county deserves the support of every
Republican in the county. He is a
farmer who lives on his own farm, is
well educated and in addition to that
is a real man. He has had experience
in the legislature and the pooplo of
the county are fortunate to have the
opportunity to vote for A. E. Scace.
Signed: Usher L. Burdick.
MANY COYOTES KILLED
Williams county is certainly mak
ing war on the coyotes this spring.
Pelts have been brought in to the
auditors office every week but last
week was the banner one as far as
numbers were concerned when 120'
pelts were brought in for the bounty.
One man brought in 42 and another
21. They get a bounty of $2.50 for
each one killed.
AFTERNOON PARTY
Little Mary Lukens was hostess at
a very pretty party at the Lukens
farm home east of town on Wednes
day of last week. The afternoon was
spent in outdoor frolics and a de
licious luncheon was served at five.
Those present were Jean and Berhl
Brodwick, Jennette Owens, Laura
Trowbridge, Marion Stenehjem, lola.
Robinson, Mary Stice.
CAR OF THANKS
We wish to thank all who so kindljr
gave us assistance on our great
trouble and sorrow, in the loss of our
husband and father.
Mrs. H. O. Rongstad and Children:
