State Historical Society
Taney County
EPUBLICAN
Vol. 'J I. No. .'5--'.
FOUSYTII, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, JUNK 22, 1910.
Four Pages.
When You Don't Advertise Nobody Knows That You are Doing Business, and it Won't be Long Before You'll Not Know it Yourself Newspaperdom
The Tariff Comission Record
"II the Republicans are in favor ola
permanent tarifl iolicy, an 1 an end to
the periodic Uriff agitatior, let them
give their platf r 1 approval to the Ad
ministrations tariff commission bill,
which has already been formally in
dorsed by the United States Chamber
of Commerce, representing the busi
ness men of the nation," siys a Dem
ocratic National Committee Bulietiu.
'"The pronounced feature of modern
industrial life is its enormous diversifi
cation. To apply tariff rates justly to
these changing conditions requires
closer study and more scientific meth
ods than ever b fore. The Republican
party has shown by its creation of a
tariff board its recognition of this situ
ation and its determination to be equal
to it. We condnn the Democratic
party for its failure either to provide
funds for the continuance of this board
or to make some other provision for se
curing the information requisite for in
telligent tariff legislation. We protest
against the Democratic method of
legislating on these vitally important
subjects without careful investigation,"
declared the Republican platform of
1912.
The Democratic platform of 1912
had nothing to say on the subject of a
tariff board or commission. President
Wilson, until a few weeks ago, was
bitterly opposed to the establishment
of a tariff commission. The tariff
commission indorsed by the United
States Chamber of Commerce was a
''non-partisan" body. Two men are
reported to have been already selected
for the proposed Democratic tariff com
mission. They are Dmiel C. R iper,
now First assistant Postmaster General,
and Dr. Ewing Pratt, a pronounced
freetrader, Chief o! the Bureau of Fore
ign and Domestic Commerce. Roper
was clerk of the Ways and Mans Com
mittee when the Underwood tariff bill
was framed. He is a South Corolina
politician and a product of the spoils
system. It is not believed that trie
U. S. Chamber of Commerce,' or'the
Permanent Tariff Commission League
ever had in mind the sort of tariff com
mission proposed by the Democratic
Administration.
How Stands Missouri?
Visiting Democrats who speak of
"holding Missouri inline" are evident
ly not familiarly with the line as de
fined by the official figures of presi
dential elections since the year 1900.
When the Republican party was form
ed its vote in Missouri was in the
scattering column. But the vitality of
Republican principles asserted itself
steadily, and by 1896 the vote of the
party in Missouri passed 300,000 for
the first time. In 1904 the Republi
cans took the lead in the state, held it
in 1908 and 1910, and the combined
vote for Taft and Roosevelt in 1912
was l?'ger than the Wilson vote. The
Missouri official figures for this period
ought to have a practical interest for
for Democrats, though it will not flat
ter their expectations. In 1904 the
v e of the state was Republican 321,
449, Democratic, 296,312; in 1908,
Republican 347,203, Democratic
346.574; in 1910, Republican 323,
074, Democratic 319.909; in 1912,
Til: and Roosevelt combined, 332,194,
Wiljoa 330,746. Democratic arith
rr.tiic men may shift the figures as they
please, but can find no comfort in them
regarding Missouri position and politi
cal tendencies. It has become a Re
publican state on the basis of normal
party strength.
Not many Democratic visitors are
Aare ibdi the Democra'ic party in
this I'ate cast its largest vole iu 1896,
ttrnt7 years ago. In the twenty years
preceding the last national census the
pnp'i!ati;in of Missouri increased 614,
150. Ti is would naturally imply some
growth in the Democratic vote also.
But there was a Democratic loss be-tre-n
1896 and 1912 of over 30.000.
TVre is no other state that nukts
such a poor Democratic showing. The
suggestion that the vice presidential
nomination be bestowed on Missouri
must be viewed as a tonic, not as a
reward. It will take a far more power
ful stimulant to arrest the long-continued
decadence of the Democratic
party here, a wasting malady of twenty
years' standing. A once rock-ribbed
Democratic state has changed its polit
ical point of view so emphatically that
it must be left to its own devices as a
Republican convert, and one ever
strengthening in its faith in Republi
can protective and constructive prin
ciples. A Republican lead in Missouri of
30.000 for Hughes and Fairbanks
would be no surprise to those familiar
with the drift of political opinion
in the state during the last fifteen
years. Globe-Democratic.
A Protective Tariff
Even its enemies admit that a pro
tective tariff is a constructive measure.
Their pretended criticism is that it
builds up large business enterprises at
the expense of the masses of the people.
Their pretended sympathy is for the
"ultimate consumer," who in their
view, pays the tariff duties. The fact
is, however, that no man can have
employment unless there be some one
to conduct an industry or buy the
product. We cannot have large torces
of employes unless we also have large
institutions engaged in production.
Neither can we have large manufactur
ing institutions unless we have a large
purchasing cemmunity to consume
the products. Unless we have a pro
tective tariff, the producers of other
countries, where lower standards of
living prevail, ship their cheaper pro
ducts here and sell them to our people
thus depriving our producers of their
home market. Every time of one our
manufacturing establishments closes
its doors or c its down its production,
it throws out of employment a certain
number of wae earners, who because
of loss o employment, cease to be
consumers. Diminished consumption
causes further cessation of production,
more unemployment, and, in turn,
still further diminution of consumption.
It is either an endless chain of iir
creaseed production or ?n endless chain
or decrease. Ths protective tariff is a
constructive measure because it in
evitably builds up our producing in
dustries. The- protective tariff is the
peculiar principle of the Republican
party. It is an "America First" prin
ciple. It ought not to be - a political
question, but by trying to tear down
this bulwark of American productive
industry, the Democrats have faced
the issue. Men who believe in
"America First" are not going to give
cp, so the tariff will be a party issue
until the Democrat concede the sound
ness of the protective principle.
Philosophy in Practice
"The strongest will is present will
the seat of soverignity. If the strong
est will is present in Congress, then
Congress will dominate the Govern
ment; if the strongest guiding will
is In the Presidency, the Fresident will
dominate the Government." Wood
row Wilson to the Economic Club,
New York, May 23, 1912.
Events which have transpired indi
cate that the strongest will is in the
Presidency. The subserviency of the
legislators has given a new phase to
our political lexicon "A rubber-stamp
Congress." Wilson named the party
that he would have no one but Marshall
to run as Vice-President. He wrote
the St. Louis platform. He will di
rect the campaign publicity work. If
it were not for the inferior caliber of
mentality 'which characterizes Demo
cratic flunkeys, we would have to ad
mire the Wilsonian control.
One of the hardest blows the demo
crats have received for a long time
was the declination of Col. Roosevelt
to accept the nomination of the pro
grestive party for president. They had
not figured on that.
Do it Now
By itsavocacy of a tariff commission,
the Democratic party has lost some of
the confidence ol the free traders, with
out gaining the confidence of any
protectionists. It is clear to every
body that if we need a protective tariff
at all, we shall need it most urgently
immediately after the close of the war
in Europe, which has served the pur
pose of a protective tariff to a very
large extent. But it is also clear that
if tariff revision must wait fur an in
vestigatioh by a tariff commission and
then pait a discussion of the tariff com
mission's report by Congress, we will
very likely be in the position ol the
man who shut the stable door after the
horse has escaped. In 1912 a great
majority of the people of the United
States voted tickets which represented
protective tariff principles, thus dem
onstrating their advocacy of a protect
ive tariff, and subsequent elections
have shown continued devotion to
protective pclicies. The Republicans
believe in immediate restoration of a
protective tariff, with expert investi
gations by a commission from time to
determine to what extent the duties
should be raised or lowered. By advo
cating delay until a commission can
report, the Democrats have estranged
thousands of business men who want
American industry protected before
the war has closed.
Self Condemned
Woodrow Wilson declared in his
Indianoplis speech January 5, 1915:
"I want to pay my tribute to respect
and affectionate admiration for the two
great Democratic Senators from the
State cf Indiana. I have never had to
lie awake at nights wondering what
they were going to do." Whatever
the President's freedom from concern
was for them, the distinguished Sena
tors undoutedlv had to spend many
restless nights trying to conjecture
where the leader of their team would
and in the morning and what distance
he had hopped during watches of the
night. The President, interpreting
his own position, continued: "And
the country is not going to trouble
itself to lie awake nights and wonder
waht men are going to do. Ilthey have
to do that, theywill choose other men."
No President since 1856 has been so un
stable, so uncertain ana so undepend
able as Woodrcw Wilson. Throughout
his term the country has been kept a
wake man nightsowingtothe flops of its
Chief Magistrate and it now seems as
certain as tomorrow's sun will rise, that
the people will chose other men next
November to whom to entrust the des
tinies of this nation during the mo
mentous years which are just ahead.
The Protectionist.
Red Ant Killer
Did you ever hear of a household
that didnt have an ant remedy? How
many of these same households are not
looking for a remedy that will really
work? L. Haseman of the Missouri
Agricultural Experiment Station has
been giving special attention to the
little red ant that usually causes more
trouble than any other and has been
able to kill it with the syrup made
from half a pound of sugar and a forti
eth of an ounce of sodium arsenite.
The syrup should be made in a double
boiler because If it is scorched the ants
will not eat it and the poison must be
carefully weighed by the druggist and
no more than this must be added for
two reasons. (1) it is a deadly poison
and will be more likely to be danger
ous to animals or persons who get it
by mistake if less diluted. (2) If any
more of it is used, the ants detect the
taste and will not eat it.
Professor Haseman says that the ant
has a very keen sense of taste and is a
most contrary creature refusing to eat
many of the things usually used in try
ing to get rid of him. In fact he finds
that the little red nuisance eats his
arsenic syrup better if it is put on
sponges, rags, or blotting paper so it
is seemingly harder to get than if in
an open dish. If the soaked sponges
or rags are put into tin cans or glass
jars closed up except for a little crack
as though put away to avoid the ants
they seem to make special search for
it and pass by open dishes of it in
favor of the closed vessel.
Proffssor ITasemaa recommends this
poison especially for the little re ants
and sivs that the real way to get rid
of auy kind of ants whose nest can be
found is to destroy the entire colony
with boiling water or by pouring on
carbon bisulphide which will choke or
suffocate them if place d so that its
poisoned gas can settle down iuto the
nest.
Bryan out but not Down
Mr. Bryan is out of the Democratic
National Convention, by action cf the
Nebraska primary, but let none of his
enemies lay the flattering unction to
their souls that he is down. Bryan
always rises again. It is true that
Democratic delegates may pass him by
as the Levite did the uufortunate trav
eler to Jericho. Democratic delegates
are stringing the Wilson censer. They
are fawning for purposes of thrift.
They heaped contumely on Bryan at
at thi last St. Louis convention. The
The steam roller tooted merrily over
him in the Sullivan contest from Illi
nois. His oratory in behalf of Cockrell
fell on deaf ears. His protest against
the telegraphic amendment to the plat
form proposed by the sage of Esopus
went unheeded. When the conven
tion adjourned the Democratic Sinbads
rejoiced that they had loosened the
clutches of the old man of the sea.
But the stayat home vote in November
disillusioned these optimists. They
discovered that when Achilles sulked
at faiivi:w there were sympathetic sul'
kers in enough precincts scattered
throughout the United States to make
the Parker campaign a tragedy. But
fcr the loyalty of Thomas Fortune Ry
an the Democrats would have been
Compelled to close headquarters, call
in their speakers, suspend the circu
lation of literature and abandon the
campaign six weeks before election.
Mr. Bryan has dominated every sub
sequent convention and eveiy cam
paign until now. He still has enough
admirers to make it impossible for Mr.
Wilson to cany a single state outside
the solid South without their active aid.
Belcre the campaign warms up he will
be the second Democratic figure in it.
Delegates may ignore him now, but
Democratic campaign managers will be
clamoring for his help in a little while.
They would fain be rid of Bryan if it
could be done without alienating Bry
anites. But their name is legion and
their devotion to Bryan is unswerving.
There is a reason. There is a right
and wrong side to every question and
there are citizens to take each. Mr.
Bryan has been so consistently wrong
for twenty years that he has been able
to hold his admirers against the en
ticements of all leaders who would for
sake of expediency forsake the funda
mental errors of the Democratic party.
GlobeDemocrat.
The greatest piece of physical con
struction work in the history of the
world was the building of the Panama
canal which tore away a barrier erected
by nature between two great oceans.
That undertaking was started by a Re
publican administration and practically
all the funds for its completion were
provided by Republican managment.
The work was conducted without even
a suspicion of graft or waste, under the
control of men placed in charge by
Republican Presidents. As a con
structive party, the Republican has
no equal.
You and I both can remember very
elearly how bitterly the democrats went
after the declarations of the old pop
ulist party, but Just the same their
platform adopted last week at St. Louis
reads veiy much like one of those old
time documents.
Let the Team Pull Together
The average farmer is ready to co
operate with his town brethern but he
wants to cooperate in his own way and
in something that he can clearly see is
to his interest. A study of what has
pecn termed cooperation as it has ex
isted between town and country people
generally shows that the town has de
veloped the plan and presented it to
the farmer full-formed. A better way
to cooperate would be for the town and
the country to get together. Let both
indicate what they want in the way of
cooperation; then work out the problem
not in any patronizing way but in a
substantial business like manner as be
tween partners with a common interest.
Full and free cooperation between
town and country to the mutual benefit
of both is not impossible but if it is
ever accomplished it may have to be
at the sacrafice of some of the artificial
machinery which thrivrs in towns un
necessary to the economic scheme yet
capable of gaining and keeping a foot
hold. The occasional "farmers' day"
in the city is a very desirable thing
and these events should be encouraged.
An occasional city men's day in the
country might not be a bad innovation
but the permanen t solution of the prob
lem ol cooperation between town and
country is not found in the occasional
special event which brings the two
groups of men together. Real cooper
ation must be continiousand must be of
a kind which directly affects the farm
er's prosperity and leaves more money
in his pocket at the end of the year.
When the farmers in any territory with
or without towncooperatiou are able to
put their business cn a basis which
earn 8 percent instead of 4 per cent the
prducing department will need a good
purchasing department and an even
more elaborate sales department, which
is another way of saying that the pros
perous farmer will make a prosperous
town.
Clover Bloat
Dr. D. F. Luckey, State Veternarian,
has issued a statement from the office
of the Missouri Board of Agriculture
in which he says the recent losses of
cattle from bloating, while on clover
pasture, have been quite extensive.
The weather has been favorable for
rank growth of all kinds of clover.
The white variety seems to be respon
sible for the most of the trouble.
The danger is particularly great on
damp, cool days when the clovers are
fresh and palatable. Cattle are very
apt to over eat. The rumen (cr
paunch) becomes over-loaded and the
fermenting mass causes a rapid gener
ation of gas.
The symptoms usually come on in
a very short time. A cow may be in
a dangerous condition within a half
hour after eating heartily of the white
or other clovers. Frequently, the
bloating is so intense as to produce
death before any treatment can be
given. The rumen becomes so dis
tended with gas as to press forward on
the lungs and make it impossible for
the beast to inhale air, literally smother
ing to death.
The principal thing to do by way
of prevention is to keep cattle of! of
rank clover pastures, especially early
in the morning, after showers, or dur
ing damp, cool days. Such pastures
must be used with great care at any
time. It has been claimed that feed
ing dry wheat straw, or cured hay of
any kind, will tend to prevent bloat
ing when cattle are turned on clover
pastures. There is no question but
what this will help some but it cannot
be counted on as a sure preventive of
bloating. Some dry feed should cer
tainly be given when cattle are pastur
es upon a rank growth cf clover. In
addition to this, a liberal quantity of
freshly burned charcoal should be kept
before the cattle. Burn a lot of char
coal every two or three days. Dowder
i -
! it and add a little salt and leave it
j where cattle may lick it at will. There
I is practically no danger of over feed
icg on charcoal, and this will help a
lot in preventing bloat. Bear in mind
that in some cases bloating will help a
lot in preventing bloat. Bear in mind
that in some cases bloating will occur
even when cattle are kept off the clo
ver until noon, and there is no abso
lute means of prevention of bloat when
cattle are permitted to graze on clover.
The curative treatment depends up
on the condition of the animal when
found. In many cases, the animal is
already dead. In other cases it is in a
condition to die in a few minutes, and
treatment must be administered prom
ptly. In acute cases, there is no time
for giving medicines by the mouth.
The only successful treatment is to
puncture the rumen and let the gas out.
Unless this is done promptly, death
may result. The trochar is the proper
thing to use. The trochar should be
cleaned and disinlected, as should the
hair and skin where his to be inserted.
Use the necessary force and drive the
trochar into the rumen on the left side
and at a place several inches forward
and downward from the point of the
hip where you find a drum-like con
dition. In many cases, the trochar
will not be available and there will be
no time for cleaning and disinfection.
If the animal's life is to be saved right
away. In such an emergency do not
hesitate to use a pocket knife, cr even
a butcher knife. Let the gas out or
the cow will die. If these crude in
struments are to be used, the opening
ing should be quite large. Use the
big blade of the pocket knife, and
then cut the hole just a liltle larger so
that the gas may escape freely. This
operation is not particularly dangerous
and should not be delayed when the
life ol the cow is in danger.
Grow High Qualty Apples
Quality commands price in all de
partments of trade. The higher the
quality the greater the price, regard
less of the condition of the market.
Recently the apple selling question
has been becoming more difficult each
year, and the past season has been
the most unsatisfactory one to growers
in many years.
During May there were practically
twice as many apples in cold storage as
for the same period the preceding year.
Consequently prices are low on all
apples of grades.
On the larger markets however,
high-grade western box apples, packek
according to known and established
standards are moving quite freely at
prices ranging from $1.75 to $2.25 a
box. The. choicest middle west stock
ia barrels is moving very slowly at
prices ranging half - to two-thirds that
of the western stock. There is almost
no sale for the ordinarly so-called
"standard" or "orchard-run" pack of
fruit, even at prices that yield no profit
to the producer.
Begin now to raise the standard of
the Missouri commercial apple-pack
for 1916. F. W. Faurot, Missouri
College of Agriculture.
Fancy and Fact
"Astonishing as it may seem to
appear to those who do not know the
facts, the increase in exports of mu
nitions has actually been less than
the increase in the ammount of secon
dary war supplies exported or the items
that, have no direct relation to the
war."-Dr.E. E. Pratt.Chiel of Bureau
of Foreign and Domestic Commerce.
Now let us see what the record really
shows. During the nine months end
ing March 1916, our exports of explos
ives totaled $280,000,000. During
the nine months ended March 1914,
before war was declared, our exports
of explosives totaled less than 25,000,
000. Here is an increase of over
5,500 per cent. No other article
mentioned in our entire export list
shows an equal percentage of increaae.
But perhaps Dr. Pratt classifies explos
ives as "secondary war supplies."
