rrn
le Hill Press.
HE 4
Temr OO a. "2Te.r
THIRTT-SIXTH YEAJi.
Circulation. 1,200
Vol. 36.
Marble Hill, Missouri, Thursday, June 22, 1916.
No. 8.
IARB
SOME
Infra Sageis
r 1
On Sale This Week
An opportunity to "Sim You" nn opportunity to 'Convince
you" that we can save you money on good, staple Merchandise U
ah that we ask. Ijiok these pri-e over Come in and see the
got!. Your visit will he appreciaied
Canned Kraut
I5c
15c
17c
!4c
("rcx4, rnnsl Wauor Kraut, parkfj in tnitary enn, ju.!ity
gu aranl!, 2 ratw lor only
Rolled Oat
The Vikinf (tt, park) (n full !, Mtnl, wtiI prwf cir-
t liM and rvfrmlunf and (uiv to tI'iv. 2 Cans f(.,r onl v ,
Dinner Bell Coffee
A thoic Kio Hnld fVe, trtornufitttjr aiftH and rn).
Vrry irm tkad grtr.. An ewfitnl ;u. tVr povrnl nn!y
Lawns Underpriced
Faiwjr, f.fMrd I jivna, light lr, . fialtm Th'
uauai tls,c and t.V rata. Vfj $ il. IVf yatd .-inly
Umbroldcry Flouncing
rin qiia.iljr Sia Carotvi" H(iw:n(, J7 ietia 4 tmy wk,
t pattern, utuM fv making tbMrn' drtw Th uuai "5 C
Vp ti uo, an unuMtat hargaut, r yarrt ooijt . XsJv
Ladic' Underwear
t-a.1M4 WhUa Muaiin goa, mad c.f gmt ir,Uty h.
caftboe, wills al !ar yo iMBmms, -rh or.Iy.
Straw Mattings
A fair laaluy ot t'nin XJaH.rg, rt j-a A irx-J
W-fv-t M)i'.fg thai go ftl - IVr yard tc!j
Men's Hutton Shoes
Mn" IfgM ".gM, g iw'.!, Sullon Mw. A .".hju
i stMuainl al anything lik th pne IVr fa r ..
Men's Pants
I m f M' tan, gstarantrid aU ftliiM, rd iuf
ad ! 4 . bflt and md !".irk.o IVf wif
SuiurUich Uiulerpriced
Man and YrntM miK. Strath r .w
Wlu!y fi watoea. A Jt mad and rrtr Sum Cl 2 7d
50c
V2c
$1.78
$1.08
icanin-
rarraaarl Sm ttenaaa. r w M on. Too U (m aurpr hi
Don't forget that w want to btty ymir Poultry. Fgg. Meat
Lard Etc. afid wJU pay you to full market pra for Skin . Ot
our pra-r Mow you sell It may mean a better market i r you.
The Peoples Supply Company
Lutesvllle, Missouri
lowecl exactly, for no one can tell
! how anon the work ran be done. It
may take less time but the tfeueral
( optnioo 1.1 that it will U more than
! fiur years l-efore nil the arrange
J merits can be mtide, plnns and uperi
; firationa drawn up and the riMitrarta
, let. Hut the fart remains that how
ever fast the work is done and the
I lnds dispose! of, the average rate
(of taxation will remnin the tame,
ot about 2?) cents
In a private letter from Win B,
j Kennedy, secretary ot" ti e good roads
committee of Wayne ounty. he
says: We have built by the old
crude methods some good roads, at
a cot of about $5X) per mile. With
improved machinery this cost will
lie materially reduced. Our grading
cost us $2a to tH0 per mile the I
old way, and investigations which
have lieen ilwtiugh warrant us in
believing that the grading will not
cost us to exceed $ti) per mile with
oil tnutor scarifiers and large
graders All roods must be built
by contra as you will note is pro
vided by the statute, and we propose
that the contractor hall use home
ANOTHER SHIPMENT
Of fa
incy Widl Papers rweived. Decorate y.,ur home at a
small cost, by using our heuutiful wall covi rings at the unusual
low price of only
5 & 10c
PER SINGLE ROLL
Kon't fail to see the many new and USI'KUL Bargains of every
deM-nption for only
5-10-25 & 50c
ON SALli NOW AT THE
Lutesville Variety Store
bptiii as administered by Rev timlr cut on the Schreiner place
Morris K Gilltert, our w,-thy leader and Mr. Sliukard will sK)n be in with '
ami director in this grand Sunday his mill to finish sawing the ties,
school move, which we appreciate Crader Brothers have a mill on'
and for which we are thankful. the Hider land.
We feel ihat this rally day has Dr. Sander is erecting a large barn
DUt Dew life info the .
. . i ' v.-'.i.j " -"' ' mini i m3 rtiirn is Lrriii ii
i -""" , worn here, and it is hoped that
fie I ct ve-l . The river overflowed
some of t'ie lowlands, but did very
littl'' damage to the crops,
j Farmers are tncsi nil getting la-
hind with their work. Some are
: cutting thiir vheat on account of
imperfect ripening,
i Chinch services were rained out
at Mil er o'n.pel Sunday.
Misses Thelma and Frieda Kinder
I visile I fit T. ,1. I'ridy'a Satuntav
Au it Dora Shed-y visited her
daughter. VI rv Kute W hitetier. over
Sunday
('. A Shelley has his new barn
aliin st completed.
Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Kinder visited
Mrs. Kiudei s parents Saturday nignt.
Come on with your items. Oluthe,
as we like to read them, but we
hardly knw what ali ut yourTojs
for your ide;nj seem to vary.
Johnny Riekm.m made a business
trip to Martjuand Friday.
Joe Burk was in tins section one
day last week.
Connie Beal visited at U. E. Hin
ders one day last week.
U. E Kinder made a trip to Mar
ble Hill Mondav.
4txf lae Hood Rosd ITccroa dollars per year In other words, if
The County coon was in sessum a man pays luxes on SllHH) worth
btst Tliursilay ami was perfectly will of property his share of the amount
tng to orxk-r the elccttoo for the pur- to pay the Utvts ami interest is
pse of voting on rood issue for fir one year It also shows
road imprxvetteut purpose. s the that it will take approximately $75.-
rummittee repjteil. for July Lit. Otto to pay the interest on the entire
kit owing to the shortness of the issue of Mids These are tiJl
time it was thought bet topoatpone mathematical calctilatioas and are
the election until abwut tlw last of evKiently correct. So tlie argument
August, which will give more time mat tne interest Mill amount to as
the roads are built the people will
have the money as well as the roods."
The plan Wayne county used will
be adopted in Bollinger county as
far as Hssible. and as we are neigh
bors and consequently alike in many
ways it kioks as if our people ought
to favor tlw bond issue when they
fully understand it
The committee has been in eom-
mtiDHHtjon with Mr A. C. McKibben.
who conducted the Wayne county
campaign, ami arrangements are
Wing made to have him come to!
BtUintfer coitutv to meet vaith th ;
cwnnmtee within the next week if I Hnl b9 li chM right and Allen
possible, ami it Is likely that ar-! . hm,rt sPent m the Sunday wh.Kl A M Barrett and B H
raugements will t mmie with him i 'th ther" Ntwsteiv snt Saturday night and
to lake charge of our campaign. He j " ith th,-,r families.
is an experiem-e.1 romi builder, has j ' Ali'11" !haugh made a
hiKl much experience in this line! H,'allh ' "'"i everything the Cape last week.
ami is Mid to he a very forceful : K's nne nne rains. Mead-
sr-nker If bis .rviTS ran la ot , "fSrowinjJ rapidly and it seems
tained there is no doubt that the ! th"r'' wiU a fair rr" "f nflv el
Mtaation will I presented in thei0'" look n,u, h ,"""'r
niihl manner ami that the reoole ! Sutton has lavn canvassing
will e fully informed stbout what i
they are voting on The idea is to
have speeches in every schooihouse
ifpwible hmjiTTY Committix.
Will U. .11. ....... 1 i I i w
we the lumber and Lincolns are doing c " 1 f wre-
... .i . : Susiin Bollinger and dau'ht-r vmt-
ed at Chas. BolliiigciV ( ne d; y this
week. Old Maii-.
may have a rally every Sunday, the carpenter work
May the g.d worn go right on and There was a large uumlier content- 1
gather strength, for it stands next to plating attending the basket dinner
the church in our lives at Gravel Hill Sunday but owing to MnvhVId
Fathers and mothers, let me np- the rain they were dissapointed. Health is very"g.iod
peal to ou to become more interest- Clover cutting is being greatly bin- Farmers are busy' between show
ed in the Sunday school, not only dercl by the rain. ers ,(lwin, (,,rn ., lt kfrps Umn
send the children, but g. with them, Mrs. E. A. Murry visits! her bus keeping don the
and show them you are really inter-. daughter, Mrs. Nola Huskey, recent- Some of the farmer- are cuttinfi
ested and thev will becane more ly. wheal. lult Ifl,.y r,Kjr( ,,,e T(ip
tntereste.1. Remember parents. "Tisj Joseph Trader was in these parts very ssr.
common education that trains the; Saturday soliciting hands to help in P J Seahnugh and family visited
miml. As the bush is bent so is the ' the harvest of his wheat He says ' at James Greens last Sunday
tree inclined. his wheat is good. : E R May field and brother have
You will never regret the time Homer Call is working for A M. len
Johnny May field. Johnny is going
Ramsey ; to build on his farm he recently pur-
Sunday chased from Jonas Barks
Mrs W. I) Mav field and Master
trip to Earl ami Mrs Bennett Williams and
Jesks
tbi part of the countv in the inter
est of a lightning rod concern
B.rn To Mr ami Mrs Harry
Reynolds June II, a 10 pound hoy.
Hit at tlsent lor Lone Grove
We are delighted to remrt the
sucvesof the Sunday school Rally-
day held at Ime Grove church on
Ihe stflrk left a tine hoy at Frank
SeaiMiighs recently
Mr Slinkard. our r overseer,
ha- !ren working a crew of men
Th repaired the small bridge across
for the pettl t pro(ai-
ten ami get a perfect utxkrstnml-
ing of the whole subject
J M Wn.M. Chairman
Good HojJ olf
There is naturally much argument
Advanced for and against the Nmd
protssitkn One that ha U-eti
lissl against it is that the intereM ;
on the NhhIs for the p-ril they
tun will amount to as much or more
than the principal, ami that the
countv will not get more than fifty
cents fr every dollar it spend
Sine time ago the -ointy highway
mmh as the prim ipal is ea-ily ex-'
pkts The laws regulating Isiml
issues are much different to what!
they usI to be Everything isj
guanieit by the statutes, and it is
easy to calculate just how kjig ai
Nmd issue will run ami just h
much tiMHicy it will take to retire it.
ami just what it will oust the tax-
jKiyers Any one interestol ran get
the law by reeling sections HCO'
to ItVsJI of the statutes of l!HK
Siimlay. June J. which wan a red 1 '"'"ne Thursiay morning
jletter day for the Sunday school in
j this pirt of the country
The seating I'ap.h'ity was more
than 8io and standing rHtnj was at
a premium The congregation was
poi;
e.1.
th.t
for
i estimated at between 8ih) and ItHKt. n :
After thirty minutes song service
Is by Rev B Yoiint. the program ; "!!
wa opened by prayer by Rev J M
Stratton. and Rev J N Stone deliver -
C1 the address of welcome, response
j by Rev Morris F Gilltert The pro
. gr im was most excellently rendered
; and is said to have leen the most
appropriate and test arranged ever
rendered in this part of the country.
'ording to the present law the
;ax must either be paid or work
t by the first of July It seems
most everyone in this part are
he "Bond Issue" and there is no
n why they should nt N IVo
ive Ix-en blaming the county
ils and romi overseers when
is no one to blame bat them
scix s In fact the funds and laUr
are inadequate to build na K no
macer who is at the helm This is
a great opportunity and I think the
ivopie should hasten to take adan
t.igc of it
re was ijuite an excitement
tl
ton aksl the blessings of td upon
The law Mate that no bonds can
W old till the contract for the work
thev are to pity for is let and the
board puUished a ta!4e showing the ivntractor gives a Nmd for twk-e
amount of taxes necessary to meet J e amount binding himself to do
the principal ami interest payments the work specified in the contract
on a $ltio,0(0 Uml isue at 4'. per The rxwxls ran ! divhlesl into rea-,,h,, Hirishment nnd people
cent interest This table w as eri- ( smiably slurt section, thus giving The afternoon ervice were op -a-fiesl
by several different men. and at j many home people the right to bid ,ri' n' an'' l-fver was of-nil
the time it wa pubhsheil a ropiest on the work The work is to e - ' R,'v Vount Rev Estell Tit
was niale for other to make the 1 done by home men as far as is povjl,,n "' '"r L'' Sunday
ik illations am! report any diss r-- sible. thus keeping the money at , 1 0",,l "",". (omjiievj a
rund table ssrxiiv on Cie subject
and which lasteil an hour and forty- Thms.lay evening when the little
five minutes s1 1 f B H Ramsey could not W
The table UK's" feet long and 4 ft ' f""11'' The family and nt u;hN-rs
wide was then spread by the good x,or' Mly alarnasl and Isan a
mother and sister ami it was laden
with delicious eats Rev. Esiell pat-
scar h The little fellow was found
in the barn taking a nice nap
His hi tie sister had looked m the
U -n tut overlooked turn
i i ... i. , .
n-sn i.iues iuiii wains were in
Lone 4 rove
Wheat cutting has begun. It is
very poor and much of it is not
worth anything
Mrs. I) I) Killiuri was called to
the bedside of her daughter. Mrs
Gruver Duckett, who is very ill at
Hoiley. Ark
Bryan Stone sHnt Friday and
Saturday ay the home of his brother.
Virgil, near Bessville.
A number of our people attended
church and the basket dinner at
Union Ridge Sunday. They report
a good time and an enjoyable day
Mr and Mrs. A L Dockms of
Buchanan visited at Scopus from
Saturday until Monday
Roln-rt 1. Teeters has limi assist
ing Prof Welker the last week
I. Clarence Allen went to Glen
Allen Saturday.
Mrs John Hartle. who has been
ill for alioiit two months, is rejorted
Ix-tter
Miss Tavi.i S'altauch visitevi
Mi-scs ln.i and Connie Munule Sat
urdav and Sunday
Misses U'ssie McMahan and Kate
lis !si;c.l Marvin Barks Saturday
and Siiudav
Rev Morris F. Gilbert, who has
Is-en condui ting a s-ncsof imvtiiKs
at Union Rulge. returned to 1VII
City Saturday
l,rn To Mr ami Mrs John
Bollinger, .'iinc lt. a son
Rev Bedc came up from Arkan
sas Saturday nd prcacbtsl at Cole
ha'1 spent last week visiting rela
tives at ( ape Girardeau and Benton.
They returned home last Sunday.
There is Sunday school at tins
place every Sunday at 11 a m
Every I sidy invited
Mr. and Mrs Johnny Mayfield and
babe visiied at W H M.-yhelds
Sit urdav night
Joe Shirley has been workinc for
the Modern Yeomen lodge He has
almost enough memliers to organize
the society
Most all the talk around here is
good mails Hurrah for the gixtd
roads proposuion'
There vill be nn ici cream si;p;er
gist'ii by the Ideal Cornet band at
the Mayfield po-ioiVicc Tuesday
night. June 27 EvervNxis inviiisi
Mr and Mr- ester Wooidri.lge
visiteij his mot tier near Sedgewi.-k-vii'ie
Saturday tncht and Sunday
The Ideal Cornet hand will play
for
ha
t!ie
r:h ,
picnK
,bii
the
M
e...
':Y i.
this ,..,rt Thnrsslax in the interest of cha'H'1 s;ir'i-, ght and Sunday
. . I. 1 IT. TV . t. . 1 - - - t
am ies o unr ihmhi i tm ipiitr. in- mnnp i uu iioi iiraw
tune no one who has rlgured the : any interest until they are actually
matter up ha come to any different sold It is not supposed that tin y
rotwlusion. far n is known by J aj flr thrr. f(H,r
tin n.mmitt.se in charge of the j w f ,k.ui,in, haxf Urn
matter Th table show el that on j . . tl., .
. ,k- v , nk i has. of $10,000 the
ii valuaiH of $...iHMH0 the aver-
ege rate for the term vf tlw UmmNi l eac h year f, four
aUait Jcentitw the one hundred , ears. This basis may uo be M-
'Better Sumlay S bl
C4nsiderable disciissi.m tai the
the Bollinger County Mutual Aid
so. icty
R. Satlhx has Nvn sntYcting
fr-un a wound in his f.vt inflicted
by N mg pierosl by a nail.
I nele Anderson Mitchell found a
llhlt I if llfVHTiItW'4lllill Kl f rv.wo ..I awl .11 f r
; ' ; - iWW ",M,,fe nHn u,,,r ,,'', tmst ii..men.iistbmgsitithes-pat;s.
of experience greater efficiency ,n kmg ,n hi, fiekl Tm-,la nung af- ulUm t.UItm ,hoM
temhing. and lam to rnthine okler ter the st,m the plank was imrly w m , , j C,K
people in Siimlay s b.al w.rk. puni.sl ami no doubt has come from
Ttie congrrgatkm tlien re airsl to mn,e of the storm swept eountrv t'atr
the creek where the in n ce of The Lutes company have all tla ir uc r- o mug quite a kst of r.i.i t ,.mmitte-.
and at Halm chapel Sunday mgi i
Miss Mary Tbomason returned m
W II He.,;hs Thnrv,lav
Sunday school at loue tinve .it
!.t0 Sunday mornings Come o :t
ami help us in the work
Rains and candidates are tne
4 pm in the Car
ith gasoline at l i cents a gal
lon "Come and take a spn, will; us
old man c re not going far. mst
100 miles or so. if the roads are good '
W ith gasnlme at Kv -enis "He
glad to have yon m t!:c . ar with us
Sundav v e re goiin. oat for a
h:i ie Tx1 mile tog "
Ui;h gasohac at J f I'eti's "Got
tunc to go down to ;!.c i-l.md with
mc in the machine'' t.lid to have
voa. if you ! isme '
W it h g -tsolme at .'0 ecu's "Like
to ritie around the hl.v K a couple of
times ii thi' car" Jaiap in e
won t Iv gone over ten nnautes"
W lib gasoline .it -iO ci ois nnd up
' W t're going to rll the c;ir out to
the curb and s.: in it for th- air a
wtule V i I you torn us" Brooklyn
Times
"Vnxttiing to Nat Wil-o i" i- m t
going ti ie'eat W iImp. They '11 have
to give tu'ictv g'Ol riaSti. ,uid
t'n can t do it Stat- IVniocnuc
