rTTMT
H H
THE TRIBUNE'S CIRCVL.
TION IS THE LARGEST IS
CAPE GIRARDEAU, t i t
THE TRIBUNE COVERS
SOUTHEAST MISSOURI
LIKE THE DEW. i i i
A NEWSPAPER THAT PRINTS ALL THE NEWS TATS FIT TO PRINT AND PRINTS IT FIRST
VOL. XV. THE CAPE COUNTY HERALD, CAPE GIRARDEAU, MISSOURI, JUNE 15. 1916. NUMBER 23.
13
HE
W
liLT
irirt ITTl TTT
MIL.
52
DIESES
34 MEN JOIN
VOLUNTEERS AT
MASS MEETING
Mayor Kage Urges Enlist
ment In SpeechAtCourt
House Park.
SKINNER SPEAK WAS
FIRST TO SIGN LIST
Bain Will Open Recruiting Of
fice In Com'J Club Rooms
Today.
In response to a call to arms to
form a company of volunteer soldiers
who will be trained and mustered into
the Federal service to go to Mexico
in the event of war, thirty-four men
last night stepped forward at a mass
meeting in the Courthouse park and
joined the colors.
Capt. Wilson C. Bain will open re
cruiting headquarters for the volun
teer company in the Commercial Club
rooms this morning and each of the
men who joined the organization last
night expect to bring additional men
to the colors as recruits.
The mass meeng was attended by
a crowd of about 600 young men, some
of them married and attended by their
wives, many of them single and at
tended by their sweethearts. They
stood in groups about the bandstand
and listened to the addresses urging
them to offer their services for war
most of them looking serious.
Eventually, as the series of speeches
closed, the knots of people broke up;
many departed to "think it over," and
several straightened their shoulders as
they presented themselves for war.
-The organization of the volunteer
company was inaugurated yesterday
by A. JL Tinsley, Captain Bain and
John M. Keys. The last two men have
had considerable experience in the
regular army in the Philippines.
The recruiting will continue each
day until enough men sixty-five
have been obtained to form a com
pany. The leaders in the formation
of the company desire to get 75 or 80
men for the initial organization, and
if the recruiting proceeds fast enough,
two volunteer companies will be or
ganized. The men who enlist in the volunteer
company go for three years of the
war, if one develops in Mexico. Under
the terms of. their enlistment they will
be mustered out of service imme
diately at the close of the fighting and
may return to their homes.
The movement to organize two com.
panies in the Cape and contiguous ter
ritory will become a part of a general
movement to form a battalion centered
here, or a regiment, the old Sixth Mis
souri, which if formed, probably will j
be led into action by Colonel Arthur
L. Oliver.
Immdeiately before the mass meet
ing last night, Schuchert'sb and par
aded through the downtown streets
playing, and stopped at the corner of
Main and Broadway, where several
national airs were played before the
march to the Courthouse park was
continued.
By the time the band was lined up
at the park, a large crowd had gath
ered and the mass meeting was open
ed by A. M. Tinsley, who introduced
Mayor Kage as the first speaker.
"I do not feel that it is right for me
to come here to urge you boys to join
the army and . go down there to get
shot at while I sit back and laugh,"
the Mayor said. "But it is time to
prepare, and this is a move for prep
aration. .
"We have come to the point where
we have to fight and I think that
everyone of you young fellows who
are not tied to your homes in any way,
ought to join this volunteer company.
You never will regret it in your lives.
"I was 16 years old when I joined
the first time. It was hard for me to
get in. I had to run away from home
in order to get into the company, be
cause my folks would not stand for it.
But not once in my life have I re
gretted what I did.
(Continued on page two.)
LAMM IS GIVEN
BIG RECEPTION
IN CAPE COUNTY
Republican Candidate For
Governor Speaks In Several
Villages and At Jackson.
TO ADDRESS VOTERS
IN CAPE TONIGHT
Jurist Will Talk In Three Towns
This Morning, Then
Comes Here.
Jucige Henry Lamm captivated big
crowds in Perry and Cape Counties
yesterday and addressed an apprecia
tive audience at the Courthouse in
Jackson last night. The building was
packed and he was tendered a rousing
reception.
Judge Lamm addressed a large
crowd in Perryville Tuesday night,
where he opened his campaign in
Southeast Missouri. Yesterday morn
ing he made short talks to crowds that
gathered in Longtown, Uniontown and
Frohna, Perry County, and then he
visited Altenburg, New Wells, Shaw
neetown and Pocahontas yesterday
afternoon.
He was met in Perryville yesterday
morning by Judge Wilson Cramer,
Conrad Schade, Ben Masters and Ed
ward Kerstner of Jackson, who motor
ed to Perry County. Robert J. Smith,
candidate for Congress; J. Henry Ca
ruthers, Prosecuting Attorney; Oscar
Knehans, Henry Brinkopf, and H. W.
Bridges made the trip to Jackson with
Judge Lamm. With the exception of
Captain Bridges, who came down to
Perryville from St. Louis with Judge
Lamm, the Cape delegation went to
perryville in automobiles.
; Judge Lamm will sneak at the
Courthouse in this city tonight. He j
will leave Jackson at 8 o'clock this i
morning and go to Tilsit, where he
will make a brief address at 9. From
Tilsit he will go to Gordonville, and
will address the voters of that city at
9:45. He will conclude his tour of the
county at 11 o'clock this morning,
when he will deliver a brief address
at Dutchtown.
He will take his noonday meal in
the Cape with a party of Republican
leaders. Judge Lamm will rest this
afternoon. Tomorrow he will go to
Scott County, where he will speak at
Kelso, New Hamburg and Oran, con
cluding with a talk at Sikeston in the
evening.
According to those who made the
trip with Judge Lamm from Perry
ville yesterday, he was received enthu
siastically by the voters. In every
town he visited there were large
crowds to meet him, and those who
heard him evidenced genuine interest.
Judge Lamm is delighted with his trip
and the large number of people that
have heard him. He is especially anx
ious to address a large audience at the
Courthouse this evening.
RUSSIANS CROSS SERETH.
Berlin (by wireless to Sayville),
June 21. With the Austrian rear
guard closely engaging them, the Rus
sians have crossed the River Sereth,
the Austro-Hungarian war office has
announced in its report of June 20.
In the district of Lokatchi, south
east of Vladimir-Volynski, the capture
of 1300 Russians, one cannon and
three machine guns is reported.
BASEBALL SCORES.
American League.
Chicago 1-6-S; St. Louis 11-13-0.
Chicago 1-5-1; St. Louis 2- 6-1.
Cleveland 0-3-2; Detroit 3-8-1.
New York 0-0-0; Boston 2-8-0.
Philadelphia rain.
National League.
Boston 5-11-0; New York 4-9-0.
Cincinnati 4-7-0; Chicago 3-5-2.
Cincinnati 3-3-2; Chicago 2-6-3.
Brooklyn rain.
Pittsburg rain.
Mexican Government Officials Burning 1
i Huge Stacks of Revolutionary Currency.
Ifc N fop
I - xtz friT vJfeo, I I xru III' j?tjs
Mexican governmeut commissioners witnessing the burning of millions
revolutionists, in the furnace room of the printing and engraving bureau at
D. A. NICHOLS IS
DANGEROUSLY ILL
Common Pleas Clerk Under Care
. of Physician at Home Family
Keeps Secret
D. A. Nichols, clerk of the Common
Pleas Court, former chief of police in
the Cape and well known Republican
politician, is critically ill at his home,
140 South Ellis street.
The veteran officer is suffering with
a reversion of the same malady with
which he suffered last winter when
he underwent an operation at St.
Francis hospital, and his condition is
considered grave. He was not able
to leave his home yesterday and mem
bers of his family endeavored to keep
the news of his illness a secret in
order that he might have more com
plete rest.
When he failed to report at the
Courthouse as had been his custom,
his friends there made inquiry and at
first were told he had gone to Jackson
on business.
Deputy Clerk Miss Zeba Chiles a
few days ago left the city for a short
viisit with her parents in Bloomfield,
the business of the court at that time
not being exacting. She was recalled
yesterday and on her arrival learned
for the first time that Mr. Nichols had
suffered what may develop to be a
severe relapse.
Last December Mr. Nichols was
seized with an attack while at work
in the Courthouse. , He was found in
a dazed condition and taken to his
home in an automobile. He began to
improve, but within a short time his
physicians announced that it would be
necessary to perform an operation to
save his life.
After the operation he remained in
the hospital for several weeks and had
recovered to such an extent that he
was able to return to his office.
Since resuming his work he has
gained in strength steadily and his
many friends believed that he was
entirely well. He has been under the
care of a physician since Tuesday.
6 OF HER 14 SONS ARE SOLDIERS
Baltimore, June 21 Of the 14 sons,
all living, of Mrs. Mary Wolfe of this
city, six are wearing the uniforms of
United States soldiers. Two are with
the Twelfth Cavalry in Mexico, one
is a member of the Twelfth Artillery,
stationed in Vermont, and three arc
members of the Fourth Regiment
Maryland National Guard.
Summer Is Here!
Mat Morrison
Sheds Flannels
Goosebone Weather Prophet!
Prepares For the Dog Days
and Tells How He Got a
Start in Cape Girardeau 48
Years Ago.
Col. Matt Morrison, the goose-bone
weather prophet, claims to be the old
est business man in Cape Girardeau.
While he emphatically refutes the
allegation that he is the oldest man
in the town, he claims to have been
in business the longest.
Col. Morrison moved into,, the Cape
from a farm near Jackson and became
a business man in 18G8. "I did not go
into business as soon as P reached
here," remarked the Colonel, "but I
did less than six months later. You
see, I took a job driving a hack for
the only livery man in the town at
that time. After I had been in his
employ six months, I owned the busi
ness and he was looking for a job."
The prophet could not keep from
laughing when he told how rapidly he I
rose from employe to employer, but
he did not explain the system he used.
He did intimate that there were tricks
in all trades, and the Colonel winked
his weather eye wisely, and then
chuckled.
"I am the only man in this here
burg," he said, "that ever made four
wheels and kept 'em. I've got enough
spondulix soaked away in one of them
St. Louis banks to finance this war
against Mexico, if I wanted to start
something. I sometimes think I'll get
spliced to some nice girl and begin
all over again. You know I'm nothing
but a springer, even if I am well, I
guess I better not let the cat out of
the bag. Some of these wimmen In
this here town would like to get a line
on my age, but this goose-bone weath
er man can't think of nothing but wind
and thunder when the girls go to talk
ing age to me. .
"Look out for hot weather novr.
Dog days will soon be here. I've done
shed my red flannels ! Purty hot right
now!
French Dog Taxes Yield $1,500,000.
Paris, June 21. Minister of Finance
Ribot expects to add $4,500,000 to the
nation's income by his new tax on
dogs. There are 00,000 dogs kept for
pleasure in France, and 2,700,000
watch dogs. The former must pay $2
each and the latter $1.
of dollars in the currency of the Mexican
Mexico City.
LUTHERAN SCHOOL
PICNIC ON SUNDAY
Large Crowd of Children Is Ex
pected; on Lawn at
. Trinity Hall
Following the close of .their school
year tomorrow, the pupils of Trinity
German Lutheran church school will
hold their annual school picnic on the
lawn of Trinity hall Sunday.
No closing entertainment will be
staged by the pupils tomorrow, but
their exercises Mill be held over till
the day of the picnic.
This year has been one of the
school's most successful, Prof. F. W.
Niermann, who has been in charge of
the .school, declared yesterday. The
total enrollment at this time is ap
proximately 125 pupils. The enroll
ment of the Lutheran school was ef
fected recently by the confirmation as
members of the church of sixteen pu
pila who left the school on their con
firmation. The school takes the pupils from
the primary grades through the sev
enth grade, whence they are gradu
ated into the public schools of the city
for higher training.
This spring there are but two mem
bers of the seventh grade left after
the removal of those who received
their first communion prior to Easter.
They are Leonora Ochs and Paul Ha
inan. The former is taking a summer
course.
At the picnic Sundav, all the chil
dren of the school will attend. The
entire Sunday school will take part in
the festivities and the grown-ups of
the church will aid in the entertain
ment. TWELVE BAPTIST PASTORS ARE
MEMBERS OF MILITIA COMPANY
Liberty, Mo., National Guardsmen
Have Detrained at Nevada; 12
of 65 Men Are Preachers.
Nevada, Mo., June 21. If Company
H, Third Infantry Regiment, Missouri
National Guard, ever reaches the Mex
ican border, it probably will be known
as the "preacher" company. Capt. W.
R. Hardin, who detrained his company
here today after the trip from Liberty,
reported that of his 65 men, 12 .were
ordained Baptist aninisters.
They are students of William Jewell
College, Liberty.
One of the enlisted men is M. A.
Urbina, a Mexican. He is a student
minister and is now "riding his cir
cuit.' ' He is expected in camp after
next Sunday, however.
CARRANZA ARMY
USE TRUCE FLAG
TO 'TRAP NEGROES
Black Cavalrymen With Pershing,
Tricked By Mexicans, Charge
Greasers' Line and Kills Gen.
Gomez, One of Carranza's Chiefs.
WILSON EXPECTED TO DECLARE
WAR ON CARRANZA GANG TODAY
Gen. Bells Report On Battle, Tells
President Mexicans Turned Ma
chine Gun On Americans After
Requesting Peace Meeting.
SPECIAL OISPATCHTO THE TRIBUNE
SAN ANTONIO, TEX., June 21. Forty members of the Tenth Cavalry,
a negro regiment, were killed and seventeen wounded captured, as the
result of the first clash between the Carranza forces and the Americans
in Pershing's expedition, according to the reports which were received here
tonight from Gen. Pershing.
The negroes distinguished themselves, after being attacked by the enemy .
bearing a flag of truce, and when the battle was over. Gen. Gomez, one of
Carranza's noted generals, was amongthe Mexican dead.
The Mexicans decoyed the American troops into ambush by a flag of
truce and then opened fire on the negroes with a machine gun.
Gomez, according to the reports, from the scene of batt'e, learned that
the Americans were out to engage the Mexicans. Gomez sent a small
detachment, under a flag of truce, to confer with the Americans. When
the American officer and his men approached for a parley, the Mexicans,
who had placed a machine gun in ambuscade, opened fire on the officers
and their party.
The Americans retreated, then rallied and charged the Mexicans, who
were forced to fall back on their supporting column. The Mexicans then
made another charge, and were again driven back by the Negro soldiers,
who then retired, taking a number of Mexican prisoners.
General Funston has received no official list of the dead and wounded
on either side, but one report from the Mexicans says that forty Ameri
cans were slain.
Americans who arrived on a train at Juarez tonight, gave this account
of the battle to General Bell: "The Mexicans lured the Americans into
a trap by the flag of truce and then opened fire. The Americans returned
the f re and there was a general engagement. The Americans were out
numbered almost ten to one.
"The Ameircans, who arrived from Villa Ahumada, saw General Gomez
being placed on a train with a number of other Mexican wounded. TTip
General was unconscious and there was a report current that he had been
killed."
El Paso, Tex., June 21. While the Mexicans are claiming forty Ameri
cans were killed and seventeen were taken prisoners, no official report had
come at midnight tonight through American channels. Late unofficial ad
vices say that when the Mexicans opened a machine gun fire, the Ameri
cans dismounted, deployed and charged the Mexicans, who were shielded
by a row of dobe houses. Gen. Gomez was killed during the first few
minutes of the fighting. A number of Mexican soldiers were also slain
and a large number wounded. It was declared that the Americans did not
know of the presence of the Mexicans until they opened fire.
Washington, June 21. Shortly before midnight tonight President Wilson
received a report from Gen. Funston, containing Gen. Bell's account of the
Mexican attack on the Tenth Cavalry detachment. Gen. Bell said the
Americans were decoyed into a trap by Mexicans bearing a flag of truce.
Gen. Bell's information came through Mexican Consul Garcia, who in
reporting the battle, said Gen. Gomez, the Mexican leader, was killed.
A number of either the Americans or Mexicans had been killed, but the
number could not bo ascertained by Consul Garcia. After receiving the
report, President Wilson retired for the night without seeing Secretary of
State Lansing or Secretary of War Baker.
It is believed that President Wilson wi!l go before Congress tomorrow
and ask the two Houses to authorize general invasion of Mexico. He will
also ask for 500,000 volunteers in addition to the various State militias
which are now preparing for duty along the border.
San Diego, Calif., June 21. America naval officers positively denied
tonight the Mexican claim that Japanese warships are now in the Gulf of
Claifornia.
Washington, June 21. The first
group of American militiamen detail
ed for border service will be enroute
this week. Officials today believe the
militia may see service on Mexican
soil.
Orders for entrainment were ex
pected at once. Execution of the
order depends upon readiness. What
States' militia will be first to go has
not yet been revealed, though the con
signment apparently will be beyond
50,000,. thus involving assignments
from many States.
The problem of calling volunteers is
not yet worked out. Such a step will
be taken only when developments
require it; it has been discussed, offi
cials admit. Reports, however, that
500,000 will be the call, if it come$,
are apparently exaggerated.
While the Navy Department has not
yet ordered a blockade of Mexican
ports, this step may be expected at
any moment.
In the meantime" every precaution
will be taken to guard against con
signment of ammunition from Amer
ican ports to Mexico.
Gov. Alvarado of the Mexican State
of Yucatan, announced Yucatan has
not declared war on the United States,
(Continued from Page 3)
t
