, ,)
ID"
UTOMf
VOLUME XI?.
O'K'KV! Ll.K. TKXNKSSEK. THURSDAY, JUNE 22. 1916.
NUMBER 25
0.
TEIWESSEE NEWS
CUT TO THE QUICK
.-'.TOR BUSY READERS
Ready For The 4th
r r U u l tt p p e a r r- i ai i tirs i
l win mi nrruimcu Anu i
, EVERYBODY PREPARING
The forty-fifth annual convention of
the Grand Lodge of Knights of Pythias
, of Tennessee will be held at Ovoca.
The six-months-old baby of Mr. and
Mrs. Thos. Lumpkin, who live two
miles and a half southwest of Mun
ford, was killed when the wind blew
the house down.
Forty-two diplomas were awarded
to graduates of Maryvllle College at
the ninety-eeventh annual commence
ment exercises.
z The Tennessee Women's Press and
Authors' Club will hold their eight
eenth annual convention in Morris
town, June 21-23. N
The fifth summer term of the East
Tennessee Normal school, at Johnson
City, opened with several hundred In
. attendance. Seven or eight hundred
are expected to enter. '
Silas-Little, son of a farmer near
Lexington,- accidentally shot and killed
his sweetheart. Miss Hester .Scott, at (following committees
her home in the same vicinity. He
was showing her a pistol which he
did not know was loaded, -Plana
for a $10,000 aviary at the
Overton Park Zoo, Memphis, are un
der way under supervision of the Park
Commission. When completed this
aviary will be the largest of its kind
In the counntry. It will be 120 feet
long, 50 feet, wide and 36 feet high.
An ordinance providing for the
. granting of permits or licenses to Jit
Bey cars on payment to the city of
Nashville of a special tax of $100 per
. car has been prepared and presented
to the Board of Commissioners with
- the approval of the city attorney.
Dr. Brown Ayres, President of the
University of, Tennessee, presented
diplomas to almost 100 graduates of
the medical, dental and pharmaceuti
cal departments at commencement, ex
ercises held in Memphis.
More than $400 has been Taised for
a monument to the late Dr. G. W. Per
ryman, former pastor of a leading Bap
tist church of Knoxvllle, more recently
.xff Winchester, Ky. Dr. Perryman led
the fight here which resulted in Knox
vllle voting dry by a majority of more
than two to one. This was in 1907.- ,
r Chief of. Police Alex Barthell won
la the law suit in first Circuit Court
at Nashville brought by pan Wilson,
one of the leading Socialists of Nash-,
ille, for $50,000 damages for Injured
llnnria fit thA KlAf during ft laali ha.
- tween the nolice and Socialists in
South Nashville about ja year agOj.
: 'Fifteen" "Crustles" from lhe State
penitentiary at Nashville have begun
work on the stockade at the . mouth
of Suck Creek, near .Chattanooga,
which will house the hundred or more
convicts who are to be employed on
the Dixie highway in Marion and Ham
ilton Counties. The full force are ex
pected within the next -week.
1 Hon. Jacob M. Dickinson, former
Secretary of War, and wife sent a
check for $5,000 to the Protestant Or'
phan Asylum of Nashville. -The money
Is to be invested and the interest ap-
' plied toward expenses of the infant
department It is to be known as. the
Overton Dickinson fund, in memory Of
their son. ' ; . .
At a meeting of the Nashville Com
mercial Club at Nashville, steps were
taaen w muncn an active campaign
to secure for the South the proposed
$20,000,000 hydro-electric plant propos
ed, to be established at Mussel Shoals
by the Government for, the manufac
ture of nitrogen from the air in peace
times and war munitions in time of
war. .'- . , ' .' " -
V The May crop report, which has been
issued by the State; Agricultural De
partment, of which -H,' K. Bryson is
Commissioner, shows that conditions
in . Tennessee from a crop standpoint
are excellent. There has been some
backwardness on account of adverse
conditions In the western, and eastern
portions of the State, but this has in
the main-been overcome. : 1
., Poll taxes are payable this year on
or before July 3, or 30 days before
the August election, according to ah
act of the last Legislature. Polls paid
in 1913 entitle voters to cast their bal
lots,, but those 'whose poll tax receipts
bear the date of 1914 of earlier will
be obliged to "fork over". in order to
register their desires in the summer
and fall elections. " '
Julius Morgan, colored, convicted in
Shelby County of the crime of aape
The Glorious Fourth Bids Fair to be a
Great Day for,Cookeville and
this Whole Section
"Preparedness" is the slogan of the
hour, and witn a number of busy com;
mittees all at -work, Cookeville is pre
paring for the big patriotic celebration
of the national holiday. Many inter-j
esting features have been worked out
and included in the attractive program
which has been planned to entertain
all who come, the old as well as the
young. A large crowd from the sur
rounding territory Is expected, espe
cially are big delegations looked for
from the neighboring towns, to com
pete lor a special prize for the best
town display.
The great street pageant will be a
very attractive feature, one that will
be a novelty to most of us. It will be
the most elaborate and spectacular
event, ever "pulled off" In this town.
The entertainment headquarters are
located at The Wayside and any infor
mation desired may bo obtained by
calling there or on Prof. M. T. Car
lisle, general chairman, at the Hotel
Richelieu.
COMMITTEES -
The celebration is in charge of the
General Committee-r-M. T. Carlisle,
Chairman; Jas. N. Cox, W. A. Hens
ley, Claude Darwin, W. M. Shanks
Jere Whitson.
Finance Mrs. W. R. Carlen, Mrs.
W. M. Shanks, Treasurer.
Judging Judge Sam Edwards, E.
L. Wirt, Joe W. Cooper.
Entertainment Jas. .N. Cox, Chair
man, R. L. Farley, Jno. B. Dow, C S
Jenkins, W R Carlen, Thurman Whitson.
Decoration Mrs. Rutledge Smith,
Mrs. J. P. Hamilton, Mrs. L. M, Bul
lington, Dr. J. A. Wyly Bob Lee Mad
dux, Fred Staley. -
Patriotic Concert Jeff Wall. " '
Baby Show Mrs. Fred White.
Pageant The following have been
appointed to manage sections in the i
parade: .,.'
. Band-F. E. Collier. " v '
Military Co, , of City School
Boy Scouts Alvln Wirt.
' .Rovi Corn dub -Prof. Harrison.
Girl's Canning Club Miss Marga
rett McKenzie. .
School Float Mrs. J. M. Hat
field.
High School Float T. K. Sisk. .
Polytechnic Float-President Earlv
and Supt. Hatfield.
Parent-Teachers' section Mrs: W.
R. Carlen. -
Story Tellers' Section Mrs. J. C.
McDearman. "
Decorated Automobiles Jere B.
Barnes, Miss Ada White.
Trade Display Dr- G. N.Guthrie.
' Old Soldiers Hon. Jackson Davis.
Hon. Frank Richmond and J. H.Davis.
Horseback Riders Benton Terry,
and Miss Mattie Lee Barnes. - '
Pony Section Jno. H. Whitson. "
Farmers' Float Blair Harrison.
Fraternities F. R. Pendergrass:
, R. F. D, Carriers Hartford Johnson
Present Day Notables Dr. W. S.
McClain, Mrs. J, C. McDearman, Mrs.
Rutledge Smith. - .
Marshals O. K. Holladay, C. N. El
rod, Ralph Wirt, Joe Cooper, L. M.
Bullington, Rutledge Smith, Dr. C. P.
Martin, Willis Dow, Algood Carlen, W.
S. Jared. t- '
III Hlfflli 7' 1 1 ill I M "' lui mil n hi w im.imn!, I
JriTir J
II 1 -5-1
11 I I!
i I
S t ,r.: jU I
B II .... ? . 4sl Bl
- T. Q. Martin, Evangelist
' , of Sellersburg, Indiana ;
, Who will conduct a series of Gospel Meetings in
Cookeville, Tenn., at the Church of Christ, commenc
ing Sunday, July 2 1916, at 11 a. m. Preaching twice
every day. Everybody cordially invited to, attend
all services. Congregational singing.
QUEEN OF PAGEANT
- A voting contest for queen ofthe
pageant is now on at the Wayside rest
room. . Following is the standing:
: Miss Mary Jared 200
Miss Margaret Rickman ......200
Miss Mattie Lee Barnes . . . . . 200
" Mlss Ada White . . . . w . ... .... 300 .
This contest is open to anyone. The
conditions of voting are, 10 cents per
100 votes. Proceeds go on expenses
of the celebration. A specially deco
rated pony, cart will be arranged for
the queen to drive in the parade, also
horseback escorts. - T
.. STREET PAGEANT
The order of the big' spectacular
street
TEACHER8 INSTITUTE
The annual summer institute for
teachers of this county and any other
who may desire to attend will be held
at the City School building in Cooke
ville, beginning July 3, and continu
ing two weeks. Instruction illustrat
ing methods of teaching will be given
I in all elementary school subjects and
I Agriculture and school management.
The faculty will be .composed of
an 'instructor be sent by the State,
Mr. Thos; A. Early, President of the
Polytechnic Institute, Mr. Sisk and
other local teachers. v
We believe this is to be the best
institute w have ever had In this
county, and visiting teachers are cor
dially Invited to attend. All who
teach in this county who do not at
tend a summer school, must attend
this institute.
The program will be announced
I later. ; Respectfully,
J, M. HATFIELD, Co. Supt.
W. T. ENSOR, DIES .
William T. Ensor died Tuesday
night at his home at Ensor, ten miles
west of Cookeville. His death was
due to heart trouble with which- he
had suffered for several months.
He was forty-five years old and was
one of the best known and most high
ly esteemed merchants and f armer8 of
this county. I
He had been an active member of
the Southern Methodist Church from
childhood and was also a prominent
Mason and Odd Fellow.
He ig survived by his wife and three
children a daughter and two sons.
He was the eldest son of former
County Court Clerk John L. Ensor
and is survived by several brothers
and sisters. Three of his brothers,
Dow A. Ensor, John O. Ensor and
Simon M. Ensor, all Methodist minis
ters and all three are members of the
Tennessee Conference. -
Funeral services were conducted at
the residence by Rev.. R. J. Craig In
the presence of atout five hundred
friends of the deceased. The Instru
ment took place at the family ceme
tery under the auspices of the Masonic
and . Odd Fellows Lodges. . " -
Mt. View Lodge No. 179, I O O F
met at the usual hour, S p. m. June
io, .isub, jas. xi. Mcculley, N. G. pre
siding with the usual Friday night at
tendance. The usual amount of rou
tine business was disposed of.
Bro. C. Bradford is about as last
week. Bro. York is not doing 8o well
this week. Bro. G. W.' Stephens was
reported Improving. Bro. A. N Bow
den is very much better this 'week
Bro. F. C. Whitson writes that he is
afflicted with a very sore hand thin
week. .
The list of delinquents' is now re
duced to 4. The Lodge would feel
proud to be able to report none drop
ped for non payment of dues.
This term ends on the 30th inst,
only one more meeting in this term
The installation of officers takes place
July 1st at which time it is hoped
there will be a full attendance, as the
semi-annual report of the Grand Lodge
will be read and it seems that a slight
gain will be shown in all departments
of the Lodge. , .. ;
JUDGE EDGINGTON GUILTY
The court of imneachmpnt fnnnrl
Judge Jesse Edgington of Memphis
sumy on eigni or t&e Z articles at
impeachment, three of them pertain
ing to the Monteverde and Coan
bribes, one to protecting violators of
the prohibition laws, one for violating
his own injunction, one for allowing
court records to be mutilated and
falsified, and two for allowing excess
sive fees in the Stadmiller case. , The
vote varied from unanimous on one
article to barely enough to convict on
others. Following is the verdict:-
State of Tennessee vs. Jesse .Edg
ington :
In this case, the defendant, Jesse
Edgington, Judge of the Criminal '
Court of Shelby , County, Tennessee,
Division No. 1, having been found
guilty of the crime of accepting bribes
to influence his 'Judicial conduct, so
charged in the articles of impeach
ment numbered one, two and five, by
a concurrence of two-thirds of all the
Prizes have been furnished by The
Wayside, Mrs.'Mackie Shanks, Mrs.
Garrett Maxwell, Mrs. R. L. Farley,
Mrs. Nina Douglass, Mrs. Fred White,
w. a, Loftis, Harding Studio, Tom D,
TO OLD GLORY
Grady Hughes
Bring your lunch, stay all day and
celebrate the glorious Fourth.
For further information inquire at
The Wayside,
Here's to our flag of red, white, and
blue : '
Ford, Herman Gentry, A. P. Barnes Red for. the blood shed by men most
true;
White for the purity of perfect peace;
And blue for courage that will never
cease.
Spectators will be charged 10 cents j Old Glory, your hues are as bright is
admission. A box of candy will be
given to the country person and one
to the town person getting the, most
enries. - -
John W. Gillem offers in addition to
above prizes a first and second prize
for the prettiest baby under two years
of yore;
Your presence still thrills as it did
before. - '
Commanders in chief - and generals
' of old,
Famed for their valor and-spirits so
UUIU,
old from the country. For these two Loved you no more than we do today:
prizes no entrance fee will be charged. A fact that we'll prove when the
DECORATIONS i Ak n06 COmeS ourway'
Every citizen of Cookeville is earn Above a11 .tner8 7 B?,!'
estly solicited to decorate his home oweel eim ror me true
and place of business on the Fourth. I ' AV iflf- 4J .
This is a direct appeal to individual 4 ' ' , f """s u
patriotism. In thi8 particular Cooke- TT . T i 1
ville "expects evehr man to do his ! chnged' unharmed by the enemy!
duty.1 Let's put the city in gala at--old G17 we lve you and 'Wilson'
WAR WITH MEXICO
In all nrobability the United States
will be at war with Mexico within a senators sworn to try the said articles,
few days. A small detachment &f our I an1 tne other articles filed against
negro troops had a fight with Mexi- j hlm ana tbe .aid defendant, - Jesse
cans wednesaay. President Wilson "biub, tusu ueen iouna
has ordered out all the militia, that gty by a like concurrence of two
f rom Tennessee now being assembled ' thirds of all the senators sworn to try
in Nashville. . mm, on tne rouowmg articles number-
ea six, seven, iz Z4 and 2b:
It is, therefore, the Judgment of this
court, the Senate of the State of Ten-:
nessee, sitting as a court of impeach
ment to try the said Jesse Edgington,
Judge, and which has tried him, pur
suant to the constitution and the laws'
of the State of Tennessee, that the
said Jesse Edgington,- judge of the
Criminal Court of Shelby County,
Division No.l, be removed and he Is
hereby removed from his said office,
and that he be and is hereby declared
and adjudged forever disqualified
from holding any office hereafter in
the State of Tennessee. -
And it is further adjudged that the
State of Tennessee recover of the said
Jes.se Edgington all of the costs of
this proceeding. -
COWAN-GENTRY
Mr. David Cowan of near Buffalo
Valley and Miss Daisy Gentry of this
city were married last Sunday, Esq.
John H. Dowell officiating. Both the
contracting parties are well known in
Cookeville, Mr. Cowan having been a
former resident and Miss Gentry has
for 8ome time been a popular operator
for the Gainesboro Telephone Co.
WELCH-BORDEN
Last Sunday Miss Zella Borden, and
Mr. Willie Welch were united in mar
riage .by Esq. John H. Dowell. Miss
Borden is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
M. H. Borden of this city and has for
the past few years been teaching in
the rural schools of the county. . Mr.
Welch Is a prominent young farmer of
the Fifth district. -
tire for this occasion,
PATRIOTIC CONCERT
Mr. Jeff Wall will be in charge of
the patriotic concert-to be given at the
City School Auditorium at 8 p. m. on
the evening of the Fourth. This will
beta free entertainment. It will con
sist of songs, band selections, read
ings, etc.
CONTRIBUTIONS
The Finance Committee wishes to
too; -, ,
Our lives- is the price we will pay
for you. -
...5.00
$5.00
pageant is given in another col-'."" ..EE! WJ"SELS
SaTand a fde from W3?&$. ' coseclpti
be many instructive and amusing sec- j r,;,, 1 SiJL a e iLj. c nn
tions. This feature will begin at about hKHSJPS? tt Maddux- -'
ah. nvwir . Arcade Orocery Cow...,.., $6.00
Route of P.rade-The parade wfll 1 Vfroa--1 ' '
begin at corner of Dixie Avenue and &
Main Street; proceed down Dixie Ave-, ..
nue to Hickory Street (by W. M. & . ""J11 ' '
Shanks'. residence) to Washington Av-."' Q ufi 2"n ' " ' ' ' "
.n,.,. Ili.nn. ( Cmir tTmioa Sniiooo' : S. MarglS ' KjO. ..........
around Square and down Main Street nfc '
to T, C. Depot. - iSffi1 :Bank"vV"
All business houses have agreed to X " ZzLWil
close at 1:00 P M and stav closed nn- u"la.-.l",u6
til after the parade. . .
FARMERS' UNION MEETING
The Putnam County Farmers' Union
will meet at Maple Shade, near Esq.
Willis Brown's, Saturday, July 1, 1916
at 10 o'clock. The forenoon will be
an open meeting and the public is in
vited to attend. Topics for discussion:
Welcome Address Willis Brown
How to Maintain and Build up our
Rural Schools D. C. Whiteaker.
The Farmers' Union as an Educa
tional Organization J. ..N. King:.
The Need - of Better Organization
and Closer Cooperation Among Farm
ers H. R. Shipley... ,
1X71ia' ttiA Porm of a' TTntflln la TVtinap
Hji'' and has Done for the Farmer1 B. C.
"YXIHuddleston.1 ' : ' ' '
H. Di mccullky, President.
B. C. HUDDLESTON, SeCv. .
HERBERT WHITTAKER CAUGHT
Sheriff R. L. Rash captured Herbert
Whittaker Tuesday and lodged him in
jail. Whittaker shot and killed Po
liceman' A. H. Countiss at Monterey
about three months ago and had been
in hiding since that time.
CARD OF THANKS
We wisn to express our sincere
thanks to our many friends and rela
tives for their kindness, shown us
during the sickness and death of our ! condition along various lines are cer
darling little boy. , tain to be rewarded.
Mr. and Mrs. E.M. DuBois and Family
IMPROVING THEIR STOCK '
Last Monday B. C. ' Huddleston re
ceived a registered Duroc boar three
months old and weighing about 150
pounds, the animal being shipped
from the state university experiment'
station at Knoxville. The boar was
bought by Mr. Huddleston and several
other farmers of the Salem communi
ty and will be used for improving their
breed of Durocs, The Salem fanners
are setting a fine example for the
other rural communities of the coun
ty, and their efforts to better their
J. M. Hatfield.,...
Dr. W. S. Farmer. . ... . . . .
Zeb Barnes v, . .....
Cash
A. T.. Matheney i ..... . . ,
Cookeville Mercantile Co.
BABY SHOW
Entries to the Fourth of July baby
show, which will be at 2 o'clock, or im
mediately after the parade," may be
made at The Wayside any time before R. E. L. Proffltt
2 o clock. ' It would help the managers ' Henry Algood
if Ihose planning to bring their babies i Dr. John Martin . .'.V
would let u" know as soon as possible Dr. Z. L. Shipley ...'..
so that we may have some idea of how Dr. W. A. Howard
vvldson County jail, and has been told
the status Of his case, bu refuses to
believe lt.:. '.'',-- ,
-The shareholders' of the new knit
I ting mills to 4e located on the north
(side of the river at Cfettanooga have ;Baby with smallest feet for age.
.obtained k charter and selected a site Handsomest boy under two...
Wit- the nlaat" The incornorators are! Fattest baby under two.
T ..T . ; ' Rait nnlr nf twins
committed In Dyer County, seems lg-,many to arrange for. The entrance O. K. Holladay
norant of the fact that he is to be fee of 26 cents will be paid at the Dr. L.' B, Brown .'.
electrocuted July 13.' sinco the death "opening. - - . .. Wyly 's Drug Store . .
sentence Was affirmed by the Supreme There wiH be twelve prizes, as fol- H. M.' Haile .. .'. . .
Court. . Morgan is confined in the Da- Iow:1 -ili -.'-,-; lllln'
Prettiest girl between one and two. Cash, ... . . ......
Best built boy under one year. Palms
Best built boy between one and two.'L. W. Wilimore v. . .
Best built boy or girl under two. . Gem JRestaurdnt
Baby with best eyes, under-two. : J5, 10 and 25c Store ".
,P. M. Smith . . . .
....$5.00
...$10.00
a., $6.00
....$5.00
,...$5.00
.:..$2.50
.....60c
.....50c
.....25c
....,25c
.....1.00
....$1.00
.....50c
$1.0.0
....,$1.00
.....25c
..;..50c
..'..$2.60
.. $1.00
....$1.00
f !JC Saturday
COOKEVILLE ROUTE 8 - '
-Mrs. Nannie and Grace- Holloway,"
Miss. Nellie Stults, .Messrs. 'Harley
Hawkins, - Clyde Loftis and Allen
Hawkins took dinner at J. P, BurriV
Sunday.
CARD OF THANKS
We wish ' to extend to our many
I friends and to all good people of
Bloomlngton our most sincere thanks
and appreciation for their kindness
and many favors shown Us at the
death of our dear little son, Lloyd.
A. J. and Josie Vaughan.
BOYS PIG CLUB
Twelve fine Duroo pigs were receiv
ed Monday by County Agent Blair
Harrison and distributed to members ' Mr. and Mrs. Louis Robins, and will
ROUTE NIN
Dear Herald Readers; Will you .
allow a little girl of ten to loin, your
happy circle. Farming is the" order
of the day at the present time. ,V
Garland C. Jackson is visiting the
writer this week. - - '
Miss - Maggie Hanes visited the '
writer one day last week, i , -
. Miss Amanda Johnson attended
church at Post Oak Saturday evening. -
fiian atoning is vis'ting nis parents
of the Putnam County Boys Pig Club.
The Cookeville banks kindly furnished
the money to buy the pigs. The boys
will see who can make the most profit
on their pig, (bus getting valuable
experienee. '
HARTSVILLE, ROUTE 2
Will you please give me space for a
few words of thanks to the ones who
kindly remembered me on my ; birth-;preclated and answered.
return to his home in Texas soon.
The death angel visited the home
of Mrs. Jan Julian and claimed for
its victim her dear and loving bus-'
band, Bird Julian. - . ,
Bill Johnson la filling his regular
appointments at Jess Daniels.
. Will close by asking for a shower .
of birthday cards-the tenth of July.,.
All cards received will be highly ap-
day. 1 - received 23 nice - birthday
cards, and all were highly appreci
ated. I thank each of you who sent
me a card,
Quite a crowd took dinner at Rus-J Mrs. Mary and Delia Vantrease, I
sellrLee'g Sunday. -i . was certainly giaa 10 get your carus.
Elder J. P. Watson preached at Dod-il don't remember you, but sister says
; Delia Johnson, Route 9
uookeville, Tenn.
". A TRIBUTE OF LOVE
On Tuesday, June 14th, 1916, the
death angel visited the home of Mr. '
son
for its victim their loving-little boy.
Mannon Young. We are in sympathy
with the bereaved family, who Jiave ;
been turned out in a cold-hearted '
world without the little . one. One
cannot realize the tender care of the
little one until It is taken away. It
Gainesboro , Telephone Co..
ID. W, Dow Lumber Co.
jP.'Y; Jared
Snnrinv nchnol wna held there in the-1 both. V
afternoon and Elder Ben A. Fox dellv-! Was certainly sorry to hear of the
ered a sermon at night. r : " ; death of cousin Bill Ensor. his tami
Master Hildon Stults spent Saturday jly has my sympathy, '
night with his grandparents, Mr. and Mr. and Mrs. Barnett Caruthers,
Mrs. w Ai-matronc . ' fMisa Emma Morgan and Mr. Dave
i - c3 i . ... - i iirria nnn nnrii ir l a roiriin a wan i
Miss Mattie Lundy returned home Stimson .a of Hartsvme visited .in, Witt onrwhomw? had' -!.hipHi
ift .nin. waoiro iaif vith 'writer Sunday afternoon i j. BBU .l" W,U1 oe wnom we naa
,..50c;v:r:ro:' ", r i a know anvthlna of inte-:iearned to wye. so, dearly. Words .
'rc:ulXW& iryearsWonfrest will give place to others, -.wMj cannot express r how they misshta.
f 2-00 jUne 30. He asks for a shower of tag our good little paper continued , V it f- hSS
2B0 card8 and presents on his birthday, success, and again thanking you aU.JJat can g '
:..$1.00 2S?is rn2 . SPARTAROUTET . . .Isenger totake. these little angel? to
. ...... 1.00 a e wiStaB, who ' cuttiBg. wheat; knd "ft ITstorm's Sife-K
!o........,$5.00 acltizeaof the TeBth district of Jack-, malttag hay. . ? . tbe s Bd tonB of life-for-
-.$2.50 , ,w r. . Armtrtm. Jame- Chatwell and family visited ever. . . ' ...
"JSY son county,
V tr 'm,. n ... c i..u n t i uesi pair oi . . f. x. jarea . .ouc
WTtodMunihv: i ' 5?y mo8 brotheT? nd W. Hensley .. .... ... . ' ..$2.50 ! ;: SALE OF' BUSINESS
--' - - ' - ' i- xne oeauty prizes win ne awaraea v.u. lyOiris wocery ,. Vntlr la horohv riven thm nnhllr ' 1 wl ciose uy aBui ior a enuwfi
llr. Murphy is one of the best known bv Mmarot. others by doctor's C TB Wilson ...$2.50 ' NotfC 19 "T611 tnf puD,lc!0f birthday cards. . I will be ten the
nftting mill men In the SUte and is examination.- All babies must wear Morgan Produce Co............. $1.00 that I have sold my grocery Business ! 5th of Jnly My addregn gparta,
se prime mover in ine new prganiza-. plainly -made white aresses. ah jonnW- Uiiiem in iraaej . . ...z&.uv , m uookvui w inri c roimer ros,,Tenn, Koute T
Vm. The company will engage in the mothers are especially invited to use , Dr. M. M. McDonald, Jr uiassesziiuw and have oo connection with i the
Lit under ear business and will em-. The. Wayside that day. There will, A P Barnes
ttv 360 operatives ' ' be extra beds and attendants lor tneir : RectorB fiace
business whatever.
V. R. WILLIAM 8
Mr. and Mrs. Joe Millrany Sunday.
Nannie Henry, your letters are fine.
' I will close by asking for a shower
' Modesta Jackson.
They shall be safely kept nntll some
glad day our. loving arms will draw
them to. our panting breast and then
without fear of separation we shall
walk, the streets of gold and dwell
forever and ever. - . , v
Wtf must say to the bereaved ones,
though your life be lonely and your
Do your trading In Cookeville where .home desolate, be faithful.
convenience.
X-L Garage (auto supplies) ,
,.$5.00j-W '
yon can get what yoa want . - , , Mrs. P. Y Jared
