c r-v . - 7 . j
West
VOLXX"1 NO 23
HENDERSONVILLE, N. C. THURSDAY JUNE 22, 1916
1.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE
visSl!?0i2
Interesting HL & M. Booster Campaign Spreading Like
Wild-FireMore Than 100 Already Nominated by
Sell, Friends and Relatives -Many Candidates Begin
Active Boosting-Race Promises to be lively From
First Amomg Both Country and Town Contestants.
All Indications are for a "Red Hot" Race-Names of
Nominees Below. J
Right Now Deal Tiae to Enter Race Nomination Elanli
on Another Pafje--MBc a Docstcr" Are You
vi wrttrm thjp jMirYnuruline-
niii8tion for the Big Booster Race have .poured in during the first' thr
Jaysmen and women, boys and girls people of all ages, sizes and descrip
tions have been nominated ly self; friend? or relatives and many of them
ire already "Boosting vith a jHSa Public confidence in the backers ol the
campaign has already been well demonstrated and interest seems to grow by
jeeps &nd bounds and business houses participating; begin to feel the good
results very keenly. All Booster Houses are now giving Cash Coupons for
Tot with all cash purchases and are ready to. honor Trade Books sold in
their respective lines just the game as cash and aside from the benefits that
are bound to accrue to the Booster Con tesUnU, -the buying public will also
benefit very materially during this campaign as the various houses will sell
at very low prices, offering extra specials from time to time, in order to
help the Contestants bring, them new business, more business and build for
them much new and permanent trade, hence those who do not enter as a
"Booster Contestant" will, find it to their advantage to investigate "Boos
ter House Prices" during this campaign. .
Full list of those who have already been nominated is . given below,
better look it over carefully as your Jiame or that of your friend may be
among them. Nominations will continue to come in and the Boosters are
funning another Nomination Blank in this issue of the Hustler for the U3e
of any one who desires to enter the race or nominate some one else a big
ed setting forth the rules and regulations governing the Booster campaign
also appears in this1 issue and it will be to the interest of all -nominees
whose names appear below to read the.BIG; BOOSTER carefully;as it has
to do what their race should wjsh-tobemactlve. Tie Manager . tor
Boosters is also anxious to meetaU. thepeeple-.whd hAveennomlhateJ "
and who are desirous of making the "race and urgently requests you to call ,
at his office or phone him immediately if your name appears in the list of,
nominees or should you care to enter the Booster Race whether you have
already been nominated or not. ' -
DISTRICT NUMBER 1 Hendersonville (within corporate limits.)
Names of those who have been nominated and credited with 10,000 votes or
more. Is jour name or that of your friend among them? If so. get buBy.
NOMINEES District No. 1.
(Names of Nominators not divulged under any circumstances.) IM
PORTANT NOTICE; Those who have been nominated and who have not
called at Manager's office for instructions and "Booster 'Equipment' are
requested to call or phone at once.
"Mrs. C. Few, City.
Mrs. M. A. Brown. Park Hill
Miss Denholm Reid, City.
Miss Mary Liverett, City.
Mrs. L. M. Dodamead, City.
J. C. Drake, City.
Dr. E. P. Mallett. City.
Miss Virginia Hodges, City.
Miss Hazel Russ Hazelhurst.
M. Lance Read, City.
Pete Ginakos, City.
Miss Catherine Brown, City.
Lawrence J. Pace. City.
R. J. Alderman. City.
Miss Charlotte Erson.'City.
R. P. Andrews. City.
Miss Ruth Cowart. "Ingleside"
"Miss Dessie Dixon.
(daughter Dr. Guy E. Dixon)
Mise Katherine Bacon. City.
NOMINEES
Miss Natalia Jones, Flat Rock.
Miss Ellie Pace, East Flat Rocki
Miss Sallie Patton. Flat Rock.
Miss Sue Justus, Edneyville.
Miss Jennie Garren. Shaws Creek Rd.
Miss Sallie Kate Edney, Dana.
Miss Sue Allen, Mills River Road.
Miss Sue Lanning, Fletcher.
0- B. Burroughs, Jr.. Route 5.
Claude Freeman. Bat Cave.
Miss Anna Hyder, Hendersonville, R-l
Mis8 Helen McKnight, Henderson
ville Route 1
Mrs. Vance Rhodes, Hendersonvillo
Route 2.
Miss Daisy Henderson, Route 2
Mrs. B. F. Pace, Route 2
Juss Daisy Justus, Route 2
A OTHER "BOOSTER HOUSE"
Tle Vista Theatre HendergonvlHe's
Pojmlor Movie House Enters
"Booster" Campaign.
Mi. g. P. Heilig, owner of the Vista
lloving Picture House, hag just arrived
and immediately arranged with the
usmess Boosting Association to en-
er his picture theatre in the campaign
yvI'ich is now under way. The Vista
is now giving Booster Votes with all
remissions also votes on ticket books
y ijich the Booster Contestants will
ktll. This makes twelve houses (all
different lines of business) who are
nv.' issuing votes in Business Boost
Qg Prize Campaign. This up-to-the-minute
amusement house entering as
a participant give3 the Booster an op
portunity to amuse their supporters
d benefit thru the votes thus sequiw
and the Management says that the
vista program for the season will be
THE BEST YET.
tfeit ftUtio "the. glorious tottrt."
AOimtrv ftnri from fi.11 OVr toWMI
Mrs. M. A. Govcr.
Miss Eva Rector.
Robert Gilreath, City.
Leon Staton, City.
Fred Justus.
Miss Mary Loee 'English
Jno. L. Orr, Jr. '
Miss Carrie Davis
William Penny..
Miss Elizabeth Elsom.
Quay Dotson.
Gaither. Rhodes.
Miss Mary Wilson.
Ben Few.
Miss Bessie Aiken.
Mis3 Mable Jackson.
Mrs. Thomas Shepherd.
Mrs. R. P. Freeze.
Chief Otis Powers.
Mrs. J. C. Waldrop.
Jess Shepherd.
District No. 2.
M'ss Belle Corrlher, Broad Oaks.
Miss Davenport, Horse Shoe.
(first name omitted in nomination.)
Jos. Brittain. Fletcher.
R H. Sumner, Indian Cave Park.
Miss Kate Shipman, Tuxedo.
Miss Delia Wade, Saluda.
Miss Delia Moffitt, Horse Shoe.
Miss Sue Emma Coston, Fruitland.
Mrs. Annie S. Martin, Highland Lake.
Mrs. A. E. Hudsins. Bat Cave.
Miss Jennie Freeeman, Route 2.
Mrs. James Duvall, Route 2.
Mrs. John Black we- uaua.
M;ss Hester Potillo, Route 2.
Mrs. W B Fetherstone, Route 5.
(Oother nominations coming in too
late to publish in this issue.)
THE 1915 COTTON CROP
THE SMALLEST SINCE 1909
ThP. statistics of the 1915 cotton crop
of the United States, issued by the
census bureau, presents the produc-
. - - A sv AiitirolOnT Tr flf 111
tion of ll,iyi.oy.
pound bales, -the smallest crop since
1909
in oovi state show a
decrease, classed proportionately out
. . ii. noc rn 1 r hair
in Okianoma uie ciuy "
as large as in 1914.Texas.. Georgja,
South Carolina and Alabama produc
tions were almost two-thirds of tne
total crop. '
XOTE HANDED HEX. AMBASSADOR.
The American note flatly rejecting
Generol Carranzas demand for the
withdrawal of United States troops
from Mexico and rebuking the Car
ranza government for the discourteous
ton?and temper of-its last note, was
hamlet to the - Mexican -ambassador
Tuesday."
BREVARD CITIZENS ARE
INTERESTED IN HIGHWAY
A party of Brevard citizens passed
through Hendersonville Tuesday night
on their way home from Greenville, S.
C. where they had been in the interr
est of a highway from Greenville to
Brevard. The Greenville Daily New3
of Tuesday had the following to say of
...... .
tneir visu:
"About sixty 1 citizens of Brevard-;
rolled Into the city yesterday morning
between nine and ten o'clock, coming
to bring an appeal for a good thor
oughfare from Greenville to the North
Carolina line on the Jones Gap road
The - delegates Wt Brevard about six
o clock in uie morning, and maae tne
trip here in alittle more than three
hours, covering distance of 47 miles;
They , reported the road to be good is
some places but the unworked portion !
of the mountain road to betas next: to.
miserable. -
"Upon their arrival, the visitors were
introduced at the Chamber of Com-
merce, and at twelve o'clocli, in
pany with a number of local citizens
assembled in' the committee room for
an hour or two of good roads talk.
The meeting was presided over by
Wilton H. Earle. and the Brevard citi
zens were very enthusiastic for hav
ing the Greenville people interested in
a highway between their city and ours.
William E. Breese. one of. the main
epeakers, ptated that their city was
anxious to have commercial relation?
with Greenville, and. that with a little i
mprovement, the highway to the North
Carolina -line of the road could be put
in .excellent , condition.. All of the
speakers boreupon the idea of the
advantages of this highway could af
ford in a commercial way.
"J. W. Norwood, chairman of the
Greenville road commission, stated that
it is the purpose of the commission to
put every main road in the county in
good condition, and the Jones Gap road
is one of our main thoroughfares. G.
Heyward Mahon and D. W. Ebaugh
also made short addresses.
"The Brevard delegation consisted
of many prominent men of the town,
ILSOi
HEAD THE DEfiflOCRATIG TICKET
Were Nominated Amid Scene of Wildest
Enthusiasm-Suffrage Plank
Arouses Debate
President Wood row Wilson and,
Vice President Thos. R. Marshall were
nominated for re-election to their re
spective offiegs by the Democratic na
tional convention in session at St.
Louis ' Thursday night. There was
never any doubt of President Wilsons
nomination but there was a possibility
that some vice presidential booms
might be brought in opposition to Vice
president Marshall. They melted away,
however, when the convention got in
session and as soon as President Wil
son's nomination had been made a
roaring shorus of acclamation. Senator
Kern, who re-nominated Mr. Marshall,
cast aside a long prepared speech and
simply declared: "I nominate Thomas
Riley Marshall of Indiana, for vice
president.
To President Wilson's nomination
there was only one dissenting vote,
Robert Emmett Burke of Illinois, who
came to the convention announcing
that be was opposed to. the president.
His vote technically made the presi
dent's nomination 1,091 to one.
Judge John W. Wescott of New Jer
sey, nominated Wilson, and as he clos
e hia sneech there was a great dem
onstration. Moving pitcure flashlights
Degan to maze auu uea pa.ia.ueu "
front of the stand. The band played
"The Star Spangled Banner" while a
huge banner bearing the president's
likeness was unfurled from the roof of
the coliseum.
Before the nominations were in or
der W. J. Bryan, who was attending
the convention a3 a press correspon
dent, was invited to make a speech
and this he did. At the close of his
address rh which he pledged his sup
port to the party, the ex-Secretary of
State was loudly cheered.
The Democratic national convention
finished its work Friday by adopting
the party platform exactly as approved
by- President Wilson and submitted by
the resolution ommittee including the
FLORIDA HAN LEASES
f BLUE RIDGE
, J. W. Sealey of St. Petersburg, Fla,
an experienced hotel man, has leased
the? Blue Ridge Inn at this place and
will "hereafter operate same under the
name of the Southern Hotel. He is
now engaged in making improvements
to Ithe property and putting everyv
thing in tip-top shape. Having had 15
years experience in the hotel business
and being well up on every detail of
the management of an up-to-date hols-i
tery, the new manager will, we feel
sure prove very popular with the trav
eling public and others who stop with
him. v The Hustler gladly welcomes
Mrj Sealey and family to our city.
ESCAPED FROM PRPISON
ANDt IS RECAPTURED
Pink Ward, who was 'sentenced last
fall' in Henderson superior court to
fifteen years in the State's prison for
attempted - criminal assault, escaped
frotn jthe prison-at Raleigh June 8 and
was taptnred in ? Asheville Sunday
night -at his home where he was found
in company with his wife and six
children H stated to the police that
he Sadr walked all the way from Ral
eigh hare-footed and would rather die
ip backto 'prtton. Ward is va
charmed man. ." . 1 -
Crawford of Waynes vllle, has
fceen aiajned by; ' Senator Overman , for
adzilssion to the West Point military
academy. ;
Including several members o the leg
islature and the chairman of the coun-
cota-l'tdoihml8iioiL ' The visitors were
euestsV of the Chamber of Commerce
for luncheon, and left about three for
the Sapphire country.
"Among those who made the trip
were:'-
"Mf and Mrs. C. C. KJrkpatrick, Mr.
and Mrs, G. C Klrkpatrick. Mrs.. A. H.
King, Mrs. L. E. Mull, Mr and Mrs.
Jos. J, Patton, Mrs. J. M. Kirkpatrickr
B. J. Rosamond, J. A. Miller, Lewis
R. Hamlin, Thos. H. Shipman, E. Al-
- lisoh, J;?W. Duckworth, W. H. Duck
wortl n S. English. J.' A. Miller. Jr.,
C. pi. : Doyiev-G.; H, raxton, it. a.
Zachrc.7, John R. HayHi Allison, I-em,
Brooks; W.7 H." AlllsohT R. IiGflgsed;
Geo. Morgan, J. L. Waldrop, M. M.
Chapman,-O. L. Jones, M. P. Brodie,
J. C. Clough, T. T. Patton, J." S. Pat
ton, S. A. Bryson, O Erwin, T. B.
Summey, J, L. Aiken, F. C. King.
Thos. S. Wood, C. C. Kilpatrick, Jas.
S. Silvestein, J. H H. Picklesimer, W.
Y. Thomas, A. H. . King, J. M. Klrk
patrick, J. O. Miller, Mrs. A. H. Kirk,
R. L. Gash, M. A. Mull, C. E. Orr. J.
W. McMInn, Noah M. Hollo well. Chas.
B. Deaver. L. B. Heard, W. S. Breese.
1 MARSHALL Ml
plank on Americanism and that favor,
ing woman suffrage, but not until the
harmony of its three days sessions
had been disturbed with a row over
the suffrage plank.
No voice was raised against the vig
orous declaration of the Americanism
plank, but at one time it loked a3 if
the suffrage plank had been lost. Af
ter Senator Walsh, of Montana, had
told the convention that President Wil
son himself considered it vital to
party success, however, it was voted
into the platform by a ballot of 888 1-2
to 181 1-2. The entire platform then
was adopted without roll call.
As it wett into the platform the suf
frage plank stands:
"We favor the extension of the fran
4afse to the women of this country
state by state, on the same terms as
to men." -
The women suffrage leaders consid
ered it a much more favorable declara
tion than they get from the Republi
can convention at Chicago; they threw
all their force behind it and won the
support of the administration leaders
who were found fighting for them when
danger threatened.
"The plank offered by the minority
was: N
"The Democratic party always has
stooLfor the sovereignty of the sev
eral states in the control and regula
tion of elections. We reaffirm the his
toric position of our party in this re
gard and favor the continuance or mat
wise provision of the federal constitu
tion which vests in the several states
of the union the power to prescribe the
qualification of their electors."
North Carolina cast 11 votes for the
minority report and 13 against it;
South Carolina against it; and Virginia
24 against it. '
At the close of the roll call the whole
platform as written was adopted and
after disposing of some formalities,
the convention adjourned sine die,, at
3:11 o'clock .Friday evenins. . -
B. 00 W HEADS
SOUTH CAROLINA BAMECERS
Days Successful Session Held at
Kanuga Lake Thfs Week.
Banquet Last Night
T
WO
Hendersonville and Kanuga Club
were hosts this week to the South
Carolina Bankers Association. The
sessions of this, convention, which was
the sixteenth annual meeting of that
body, were held at the -Kanuga club
and was attendee, by about 200 persons
Tnertaj aoniing session.
The mejlm onened Tuesday morn
ing- at 10 o'clock. - and was called to
order by the retiring president, Jnq.
W. bimvson of Spartanburg. . Jfpnov
in the roll call and reading I of the .
rainntft of the last session President
Simpson delivered the opening address.
He .was louoweo by M. w. Harrison,
aecretarj of the Savings Bank section
of the' American Bankers' Association,
New York- Ciy. .who spoke on rThrift
Economie Pi enarednessv Geo. J.
S'eay, governor Federal Reserve Bank,
Richmond, Va., also addresgea toe con
vention - at the morning session, , hit
subject being'Cpuntry Bank&and tna
Collection- System." The resxf tne
Tuesday morning session waaiven to
the reports, of oficers and committees
and other routine work, -i . - .
Taesday Afternoon Sesaiau
Tuesday afternoon an agricultural
symposiwn was conducted under the
management of Robt. I. Woodside;
chairman of the committee on agricul
tural development and education, of
Greenville, and the chairman read his
report. V: ;
A feature of the afternoon session
Tuesday .was the address by Mrs. G.
H Mathia of Gadsden. Ala., field, agent
of the Alabama Bankers' Association.
Mrs. Mathis is a woman lecturer of.
recognized ability and enjoys the dis-
HriHrtT . r Kpfrur ih onlv -.Wtftnan to
Ati rrtfk ftouthVaToliha- hank
ersl'Mrs. Mathfs told the bankers how
southern farmers could "increase their
income through diversified methods of
farming, and she was listened to 'tfith
rapt attention. During the afternoon
"The Banker and His community
waa the suhiect of an address by Rev.
W. W. Diehl of Hinckley, 111., his ad
dress following immediately after that
by Mrs. Mathis.
Wednesday Morning;
The convention was called, to order
by President Simpson, and an address
by Hon: C. S. Hamlin of Washington,
D. C. followed the invocation. Mr.
Hamlin, who is governor of the Fed
eral Reserve Board, spoke on "The
Federal Reserve Act." and his talk was
highly interesting The annual reports
U. 8. SOLDIERS GIVE
BATTLE TO MEX CAfIS
A battle between United States
troops and a body of Mexican soldiers
began yesterday morning at 10 o'clock
and lasted for more than an hour.
The casualties were not known but
bore than twenty American trooper3
were said to have been killed and the
Mexicans were reported to have lost
more than forty. The Mexicans took
seventeen American prisoners.
The troops engaged were thought to
have been members of a troop from
the 10th cavalry a negro regiment re.
turning from a scouting trip to Guz
man. The engagement occurred near
the town of CarrSzal. nine miles south
east of Nilla Ahumada, the Mexican
field hedaquarters in norcnern v,m
huahua. -
General Gonzales, commancer of the
Mexican troops, placed the blame on
the American commander, who he says
ordered his troopers to fire on one of
Gonzales' couriers. With which side
v.ctory restrf not been made
known. General Pershing not having
been heard from.
NEW RULE AT CHIMNEY ROCK,
All visitors at Chimney Rock thi3
summer who have their lunch with
them will he handed a card at the top
of the mounta'n reminding them to
collect and return to the shelter pro
vided for this purpose all papers, bot
tles, and articles of food. Persons
heretofore thoughtlessly left 'these
articles scattered around promiscuous
ly and therefore marred the beauty of
the grounds to no little extent. The
management of the Chimney Rock
Company welcomes all visitors and
picnic part1 es but they respectfully re
quest that their rules be complied
with. In other words, "Treat the
grounds as though you loved them."
NEW CLASS ROOM READY.
The Wesley Adult Bible Class of the
Hendersonville Methodist church, will
occupy their new class room for the
first tme Sunday morning. They now
have ample room to take care of the
members and. visitors and a cord
invitation is extended to all; men
whether young or old, to attend. -
of group chairman were then read and
Chas. H. Barron of Columbia made a
short address on "Farm Loans."
Officers Elected.
In the election of officers for the
coming year Ira B. Dunlap of Rock
Hill, was chosen president; Chas. D.
Joneg of Lancaster, vice president; - '
Julien C. Rogert Florence, re-elett-ed
acretary and treasurer. , . '-.
A. BU A, Ofaeers. ' '
, The following nffln.PT In h imarL
can Bankers Association Hvere elected:
C. J. Shannon, Jr., of Camden, member
of the executive' council ;v S. T. Reid of
Spartanburg, Tice president for South A
Carolina; J. Pope 'Mathews of Coium- V
Dia nemDer - nominatinjr comajttee
with John B." Cannon, of Spartanburg,
aa bJgalternate. J. s. W&rimAPiiAr
or St. -Matthew b, was elected vice presl-
aem oi we National Bank Section of
the American Bankers 'Association.
These officers will be installed at Kan-
sas City the last week in September."
Two Towns Want Next Iteetins.
Oemson College and Tybee Island
extended invitations for the next meet
ing of the association and this was left
or the decision of the executive com
mittee. .. . "
Bankers Delighted.
The bankers were delighted wftbUbe
Kanuga dub and enioved their stev
immensely. Many of them were not
strangers here, having visited the club i
ana iienaer3onvme before. The con- .
vention passed resolutions of thanka ;
to the bankers of Hendersonville for
tne courtesy shown them during their
stay here, and Henedsonvtlle folks t
are flattered with the fact that the,
bankerif -mr.s Beighbor statejjehose '
Kanjuga as their meeting place"lnstead
of sbme point .in their homVctater r '
Annnal Banquet.
; Dr. D. W. Daniel, hotel chautauqua
and lyceum' '' lecturer, was the chief
speaker at the annual banquet held at -the
club last night, and all business
having been finished the convention
adjourned sine die.
- This meeting wag one of the most
successful in the history of the asso
ciation. The reports covering the in
terium between the last convention ana
this showed the association to be a
very active body of workers, and were :
highly pleas ng to the members. Many
of the members left last .night for their
respective homes and most of the
others returned to their homes today.
S. G.' SUNDAY SCHOOL
TO PICNIC AT PAI
A Sunday school excursion will be
run from Grambling S. C, to Hender
sonville for a picnic at Laurel Barkpn
Thursday July 6, a letter from B. M.
Grambling of that place, bearing this
news having been received by W. A.
Smith ' of the Laurel Park estate.
Mr. Grambling stated in his letter that
they had been here twice before and
have decided that Laurel Park is the
best place they could go.
Mr. Smith says he is pleased to
know that a great many Sunday
schools, who have been to Laurel
Park with their picnics and then gone
ta other places have settled down to the
conclusion that Laurel Park is not
alone the best place, but that it is the
only place that furnishes all the re
quirements and facilities as an ideal
picnic ground.
MRS. HENRIETTA TUNRNER.
Mrs. Henrietta Turner, widow of the
late Colonel Turner, and mother of
Thomas F. Turner of Esmeralda Inn,
Chimney Rock, died at that place
Tuesday after an illness of several
weeks. Mrs. Turner was 76 years ofd.
Funeral services were conducted Wed
nesday afternoon at the Valley Creek
Presbyterian church at Chimney Rock
by Rev. T. A. White'ourn.
GOT TWO RECRUITS HERE.
Major Hunter and Seargent Robert
eon v Asheville ambulance com
pany, North Carolina national guard,
were in Hendersonville Wednesday
securing recruits for their company.
It is understood that two young men
whose names could not be learned ac
ccmbpanied the officers back to Ashe,
ville to enlist.
Cow Breaks Man's Lejr.
As W. L. Aiken went into the stable
last week a cow made a dash for the
door, ran against Mr. Aiken, knocked
him down, and as a result one of the
bones of his left leg was broken. He
has been confined to h's bed with con
siderable suffering and entertains no
hcrpe of being out for several days.-
$ylvan Valley News.-. ; . -; . ,
r't
' i
' .
i
- . s:
