THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 84.
HAH HE, VERMONT, THURSDAY. JUNE 22, 1910.
PRICK, ONE CENT.
12 AMERICANS
17 WERE
SLAIN;
CAPTURED
In the Battle of Carrizal Yesterday, Ac
cording to the Official Announcement
By the Mexican Consulate at El Paso,
While 14 Mexicans Were Killed and
30 Wounded American Commander
Was Slain
BAY STATE TROOPS
MUSTERED IN SOON
WOUNDED AMERICANS
TAKEN AWAY BY COMRADES
Doubt Exists As to Which Side Started
the Bloody Encounter, But General
Gonzales Claims That the Americans
. Were Responsible For the Clash by
Firing at a Courier N
But Lieut. Col. Buck Say. They Will Not
Be Ready for Several Day Will
Move Next Week.
Franiingham, Mux., June 22. Lieuten
ant Colonel Buck of the United Mates
army, on speciul detail here, announced
to-day that the work of mustering the
Massachusetts state militia into the fed
eral army - would not begin for several
day and it is now expected the troops
will not move until the first of next
week.
GREECE SIDES WITH
THE ENTENTE POWERS
TO DRAFT
MILITIA
IN ARMY
Is Plan of the Administra
tion Now and a Resolution
to That Effect Will Be Pre
Rented to the House To
morrow by Chairman Hay
of the Military Committee
El Paso, Texas, June 22.--The Americans lost 12 dead, including
their commander, and 17 prisoners, while 14 Mexicans were killed
and 30 were wounded in the battle of Carrizal yesterday, according
to official announcement by the Mexican consulate,which said that
complete details had been received from Villa Ahumada. The
Americans removed their wounded with them. The American
commander's name is not known. The bodies of the American
dead were counted as they lay on the battlefield.
The Americans engaged are thought to
She Agrees to a General Demobilization
and the Removal of Athens
Chief of Police.
Athens, via. 'London, June 22. Greece
has accepts! unconditionally the de
mands made by the entente iiowers, the
decision being communicated to the
French legation by Former Premier
Zaimis, to whom the formation of the
cabinet is reported to be entrusted. i
I he demands, according to the news
papers, called for a complete general de
mobilization, the removal of the Athens
chief of police, the popular pro-entente
sentiment not to be suppressed, and the
deportation of agents spreading the Ger
man propaganda.
Former Premier Zaimis agreed to-day
to attempt to form a cabinet to deal
with the situation arising from the pres
entation of the entente powers' demands.
NO NEW ORDERS SENT
TO GEN. FUNSTON
have been niemliers of a troop from the
10th cavalry,, a negro regiment, returning
from a scouting trip to Guzman, The
size of the Mexican force, whose com
mander, General Felix Gomez, was killed,
is not known.
News of the battle was received in
Juarez early yesterday afternoon by Gen
eral Francisco Gonzales, Carranza com
mander of the military zone of the bor
der. For some reason General Gonzales
kept the story secret until late in the
afternoon when an American, J. C. Hub
ble, returning to the border from the in
terior, brought to El Paso the news that
he had seen numbers Of . Mexican dead
along ' the Mexican Central railroad
tracks at Villa Ahumada, and had bpen
told that there had been an encounter.
General Gonzales' first step after con
firming the news was to issue a state
ment placing the blame on the American
commander. He charged that the Amer
ican troops tired first on the Mexicans,
and that their shots were directed at a
courier who had lust presented to them a
request that they retire.
. American army officers declared abso
lute disbelief in Generkl Gonzales' as
sertions. The opinion was expressed that
if the Americans fired on the Mexicans
they did so because it was necessary in
order to insure their own safety. Gen
eral Trevino'a recent warning to General
Tershing not to send his troops east,
south or west of their positions was re
tailed. Excitement spread in El Paso as extras
were issued and the new became, known.
Quiet was maintained, however, in view
of General Bell's frequent admonitions
that his soldiers could take care of any
situation that might arise. While await
ing instructions from headquarters at
San Antonio, General Bell kept his en
tire force in readiness for instant ac
tion. In the meantime, however, word came
from Juarez that all was quiet, although
the news of the battle was widespread
there.
According to General Gonzales he was
informed by General Gomez at Villa Ahu
mada Tuesday night of the presence of
. the. Americans westward between Villa
Ahumada and El Valle. He says he im
mediately instructed Oneral Gomez to
proceed to Santo Domingo ranch, where
the Americans were reported in "un
known force" and advise their comman
der to retire to their camp.
This, he says. General Gomez did yes
terday morning. The American com
mander, whose name was not given by
General Gomez, is said to have replied
that he was instructed to proceed to Villa
Ahumada and must do mo.
The statement issued by the Juarez
commander read: '
"Immediately upon learning of. the
presence of the American troops in the
vicinity of Carried, General Felix Gomez
dispatched a messenger with a request
quillas, bears out several of the details
of the engagement presented by General
Gomez. Hubble's story was corroborated
by James Maxey, another American, who
also was on his way to El Paso from the
interior. Hubble and Maxev said that
while their train was stopping at Villa
Ahumada they noticed numbers of dead
and wounded being brought in and were
told by a Carranza captain that a battle
had taken place. The captain informed
them, they said, that a number of Amer
ican prisoners had been locked in a cat
tle car and were to be taken to Chihua
hua City to be hanged.
Thev mentioned Mexican soldiers who
told them that several hundred Amer
icans and 120 Mexicans had Wen engaged.
"The Mexican officers at Villa Ahu
mada treated us with the greatest cour
tesy," said Mr. Hubble. "They answered
our questions quietly and with no show
of antipathy or excitement.
"According to the story. they told us,
the Mexican command was concealed in
the underbrush when it discovered the
American cavalrymen riding toward them
over the sand. General Felix Gomez-,' the
Mexican commander, immediately sent a
courier asking for a parley under a flag
ot truce with the American commander,
The parley was arranged and as the Mex
ican leader and two Hides started for
ward the Americans suddenly deployed in
a semi-circular skirmish line.
"General Gomez, apparently believing
he was about to be attacked, raised his
arm and signalled a machine gun in the
rear to open fire on the Americans. The
machine gun swept the cavalry ranks,
causing heavy losses.
Immediately, however, a detachment
of American troopers dashed forward un
der heavy tire, to the center of the. field,
where General Gomez and his staff were
sitting on their horses. In the resultant
encounter one of the cavalrymen killed
the Mexican leader with his pistol, while
the remainder of the Carranza party es
caped to their own lines."
Hubble and Maxey said that some of
the Mexicans openly boasted that the
Americans had been drawn into an am
bush. At General Gomez' headquarters a vic
tory for Mexico was being claimed. The
scene in the front room of the com
inandancia. where the younger officers
were gathered, was holida v-like. Sev
eral of them, speaking of the battle, said.
e won.
GERMANS CAPTURED
FRONT LINE TRENCHES
Secretary Baker Says It Is
Not Decided Whether An
other Punitive Expedition
Will Be Sent into Mexico
to Pursue the Mexicans
Concerned in the Clash at
Carrizal
Gained Success Between Fumin Wood
and Chenois in Verdun Sector At
tacks South of Dead Man's Hill
Put Down.
Paris, Jnue 22. After violent attacks
lasting all night, the Germans captured
the front line of trenches between Fumin
wood and Chenois in the Verdun sector.
The Germans attacked in force on both
banks of the Meuse. After a heavy
bombardment, an attack on the south
slope of Dead Mans hill was checked
by grenade attachments, according to
official statements.
VERMONT DIOCESE
ENDS CON VENTION
Votes in Favor of General Pension Fund
Instead .of Local Pension Funds
Women Are to Be Allowed to
Vote in Parish Meetings.
Sessions of the Vermont Episcopal dio
Washington, D. C June 22. Secre
tary of War Baker went to the White
House early to-day with dispatches from
General Funston, giving information
from Mexican sources regarding the fight
between Americans and Carranza troops
near Carrizal . yesterday in which 17
Americans were reported killed and 40
captured. Later Secretary Baker said
that no orders had been sent to Funston
and that no new orders would be sent
until an account from the American olll
cers had been received. He would not
say whether a punitive expedition- would
lie ordered to pursue the Mexicans who
attacked the Americans
A resolution authorizing the president
to draft the National Guardsmen willing
to take the lederal oath immediately
into the regular army under the terms
of the new army bill was submitted by
Secretary Baker to Chairman Hay of the
House military committee. Chairman
Hay said he would call it up lo-morrow
and press for immediate actiop.
The telegraph wires were kept hot
with inquiries to the various governors,
seeking reports about the number of
Guardsmen mobilized and available for
immediate service.
At the White House it was said that
thfr president's policy was unchanged for
VERMONTERS
MOBILIZED AT
STATEGROUND
Troops of National Guard
Were Mobilized Near Fort
Ethan Allen To-day, Many
of the Companies Having
Arrived by Special Trains
NORWICH CADETS WILL
ARRIVE SATURDAY
Company B of St. Albans
Was One of the First to
Arrive at the Grounds and
Was . Followed Soon by
Company A of Rutland
no intention of going before Congress
immediately, No clear view of the Car
rizal fight was obtainable but the stories
indicate that the Americans were trapped
or ambushed and suffered their chief
losses from machine gun tire. There were
no efforts to conceal the anxiety felt
over the situation which has brought war
wjtti .Mexico so close that officials say
any hour may see the conflict in full
swing.
A discussion of the Mexican situation
was precipitated in the Senate to-day by
Senator Works of California, who called
up a resolution to authorize intervention.
He had it read and gave notice that un
less the foreign relations committee act
ed soon he would move to take the mat
ter out of its hands.
JUAREZ WAS QUIET
THIS MORNING
There Waa No General Movement To
ward Evacuation and Cars Were
Running Over International
Line.
El Paso. Texas, June 22. At 8 o'clock
this morning large part of the Carran-
cese convention were concluded at noon the present at least and that Wilson has
lu-uhj Him ueieg,u,es ieiL .uoin pener - lor
their respective homes. The convention
labored from 1 o'clock Wednesday aft
ernoon until late in the evening, stopping
an hour for dinner and routine business.
The reading and accepting of committee
reports was transacted to-day.
Considerable time was consumed yes
terday in discussion of the question of
whether women should be allowed to
vote in parish meetings, the convention
finally deciding that they should have
equal rights and should be eligible to
hold parish offices, the -canon being
amended to that effect.
Bishop Coadjutor George Y. Bliss of
Burlington read the report of the special
committee appointed two years ago to
consider the matter of a general pension
tund tor retired clergy and much time
was devoted to the several questions in
volved in the report. Mr. Mason of tiie
New York office explained the proposed
plan which will do away with local pen
sion funds and establish a national fund.
The convention accepted the report and
voted in favor of the change. The mat
ter has been referred to all dioceses in
the country and none have rejected the
proposition.
Bishop Hall, in addition to his charge.
gave his annual address yesterday aft
ernoon, summing up briefly the changes
which have occurred during the year.
The following clergy and laymen were
elected deputies to the national conven
tion to be held at St. Louis in October:
Rev. Walter C. Bernard of Newport,
Rev. A. C. Wilson of Bellows Falls, S. W.
Hindes of Burlington, Marvelle C. Web
ber of Rutland, Rev. F. B. Leich of Mont
pelier, Rev. H. P. Scratchy of Poultney,
Frank G. How-land of Barre and Dr. E. L.
Wyman of Manchester.
Fort Ethan Allen, Colchester, June 22.
The Vermont National Guard mobilized
t the state camp ground to-day. Most
of the companies arrived by train early
n the morning. Company B of St. Al
bans was one of the first to report on the
ground. .Company A of Rutland was
transported in seven cars attached to the
regular train. Company D of St. Johns-
bury arrived in seven cars which also
ere attached to a regular tram. Com
names I of Urattleboro, fc, of Bellows
Fulls and K of Springfield came bv spe
lal train. Company L of Newport had
seven cars and came by regular train via
Montpelier. A special rain brought
Companies F of Northfield and H of
Montpelier,
The cadets from Norwich university
will reach the state camp ground Satur
day, ooming by specm! train.
once. It li especially desired that col
lege or high school graduates make ap
plication for enlistment. One troop of
mounted eadeta will leave to-morrow
morning for Fort Ethan Allen and th
remainder will start on Saturday,' it is
expected.
MILITIAMAN GETS THREAT.
Later He Geta Permit to Carry Revolver
in Bellows Falls.
Bellows Falls, June 22. Antona Mor
aski, a member of Co. E, First Vermon
infantry, yesterday received, two blacl
hand letters which have been turned over
to Postmaster D. H, Cray. Postal officials
will investigate the matter. The letters
which contained a sheet of, paper upon
which waa rudely drawn a skull and
cross-bones, were postmarked Webster,
Mass., and 'Bellows rails. Moraski be
lieves he knows who sent the letters.
I'pon receipt of the letters Private
Moraski sought the chief of police and
secured permission to carry a revolver
that he might be in position to defend
himself if occasion should arise.
CO. B HAD 84.
Left St. Albans with Eight More Men
Than in 1898.
St. Albans, June 22. Company B of
this city left this morning for the state
camp ground with 84 officers and men, a
number eight greater than when it left
n 1898 for the Spanish war.
SHOWED EXCELLENT TRAINING.
ROUSING SEND-OFF
GIVEN COMPANY II
Thousands of People Turned Out to Wit
nesa Departure of the Company for
the State Camp Ground.
MEXICANS BEGIN
THEIR EXCUSES
ond that all was quiet and that there was no
by general movement toward evacuation.
Street cars continued crowing the line to-dav.
PROBABLY CAPT. L. S. MOREY
Was in Commander of Americans in Car
rizal Fight.
Columbus. N. M.. .lime 22. Captain
that the Amen, an commander w ithdraw z irarri-on appeared still to be in Jnar
his camp. When the American troops jn, H na stated over the telephone
remained moimniess, ne sent a seron
despatch bearer, who wa tired upon
the American troop after he had deliv
ered his message. The American imme
diately moved forward and attacked Gen
eral Gomez "nmmand.
"All the prisoners admitted that the
Name should be put on the. American
commander for having ordered the at
tack. The prisoners were sent to Chi
huahua City with the customary protec
tion." Whichever side began the engagement,
the Mexicans had the advantage, for
they had provided themselves with a
machine gun and this is supposed to
have done dead'r execution jn the rank
rf the Americans. That the latter wire
not inefficient, however, was proved by
the p urcber of Mexican dead and wound,
rd removed to Villa Ahumada and wit-r-ed
by American com in? north on a
train bound for Juare.
Battle Lasted an Hoar.
T'fce tattle began about l:.jiv . m. and
U?eJ not merf than an hour. It ap
rarensly erlei with txth ide with
drawing IT' tf,e Pn"gTesite nomination f"r pre-
A torr bm-jgVt to El I'ao rr .. C. went IV. Ja-koa rave it a o.in
HuMi!'. an Ameruan. who fa rn em tVai OW Progrrs-ive .Tk ialiy
j'.-Trd fcj- tl toita Arr :U at Lo- rni-r; lf ji ivr jrra'l'tt.
TO HOLD LEAGUE MEETING.
With Proposal to Organize Baseball Cir
cuit in Vermont.
Rurlingt-on, June 22 A telegram
which came last night from the secretary
of the proposed Vermont Baseball league
announces that Montpelier and Barre
will send each two representatives to a
meeting to be held at the Hotel Ver
mont to-mrrow night for the purpose
of arranging a schedule, organizing the
league, and closing up other preparations
for summer baseball. The local commit
tee backing the plan hope that St. Al
bans, Middlehury, Rutland, Plattsburg
They Thought the American Detachment
Intended to Attack Tows, of Car
rizal Also Think American
Commander Was Im
pudent. Washington, D. C, June 22. Eliseo
Arredondo. the Mexican ambassador des
ignate, called on Secretary of State Ian
sing to-day ami asked for an e.vplana-'
tion of the action of the American troops
in approaching the town of Carrizal. Of
ficial Mexican despatches were described
to I-ansing, indicating that the Mexican
thought the Americans intended to take
the town.
Arredondo said he called Lansing's at
tention to the distance traversed by the
Americans from their base and what he
called the lack of prudence of the Amer
ican commander in approaching the Mex
ican railway. He said his report showed
17 Mexicans were captured bu. did not
give any casualties
Several thousand people assembled on
the streets in Montpelier to-day to wit
nes the departure of Company H for the
state camp ground. The company lined
up in front of the eitv hall and when
called to attention were addressed by
Fred A. How land, president of the Na
tional Life Insurance company. Mr
How land outlined briefly the record of
Vermont soldiers in the various wars in
which the country ha participated and
expressed the hope that the events will
so shape themselves that the Vermont
boys will not this time be asked to go
into actual conflict. He pledged to the
members of the company the support of
those left behind who are dependent upon
the soldiers.
Then the procession formed for the
march to the station. The Montpelier
Military band headed it and next to
them came. Brooks post, G. A, R., of
Montpelier, numbering about 20 veterans.
Several hundred citizens followed and at
the rear came Company II swinging along
at a healthy stride. On arrival at the sta
tion the band played and a chorus of a
score or more sang a song which had
been improvised for the occasion. The
song was entitled "On to Mexico." There
was cheering as the train pulled out
promptly at 12 o'clock.
Lieutenant Colonel F. B.' Thomas of the
Vermont - National Guard accompanied
the company and will take command of
the camp at Fort Ethan Allen until the
arrival of Colonel Reeves, who was de
tained at Northfield by' the Norwich
commencement. The Montpelier com
pany carried a full quota of fiS men, but
Lieutenant Paine wae left behind to con
tinue recruiting up to the full war
strength of 150 men.
Old Company E Boya Present.
A party of old Company E. Vermont
National Guard, which went to the Span
ish war in 1808, went from Barre to
Participants in Goddard Commencement
Concert Were Much Applauded.
One of the most anticipated events of
commencement week at Goddard is sl
ays the concert given by the music de
partments of the seminary, and never does
t fall short of the expectations of those
ttending. Lust night a event wa no ex
ception to the rule.
Under the instruction of Miss Lillian
Morse, the vocal teacher. Miss Alice Aver-
and Mrs. (1 K. Hollistcr, who took
Misa AvcriU's place as teacher of the
piano during the latter's enforced ab
sence because of illness, the participants
in last night's affair showed a rare mas
tery of difficult selections, which were
rendered by ne and all in a manner that
reflected great credit on themselves and
their instructor. There was a large at
tendance and well-merited applause wan
freely given. '
The first numbers on the program were
two selections by the girls' glee club,
"Swing Song" (Lohr) and 'Dreaming"
(Shelley), after which Miss Amy Camer
on rendered "Haymaking (.eeilhaml in
a pleasing manner. That much enjoyed
young pianist, Miss Marion Anker, gav
a brilliantly executed solo. "Barcarolle"
(Spross) and was heard again in the clos
ing number of the evening.
"In Mv Boat" (Allitsen) was the title
of a duet finely sung bv Misses Helen
Kingsland and Mildred Kent. A piano
solo, to which it was a real treat to list
en, was "Hark, Hark! the Lark (Schu
bert), bv Miss Edith Virtue, who also
rendered a "Folk Dance" (Gadel.
James McNabb. who has a voice pleas
ing in quality, range and power, gave
two selection, "Sing, Sing, Birds on the
ing" (Nutting) and "Good Bye ' (jos-
til, and the audience unavailingly plead
ed for one more.
In the overture, 'Midsummer Night's
Dream" (Mendelssohn), Misses Loraine
Ixiranger and Rachel Hollister were much
enjoyed, and they were followed by Miss
Helen Kingsland, whose sweet voice
seemed particularly adapted to the se
lections she gave, "The Nightingale and
the Rose" (Hawley) and "Norman Cradle
ong (De Koven). A double quartet
Ming voices ot tne wood (Kuoinstein
Litcher) and "The Little Dustman"
(Brahms) in a most excellent manner.
Mis Rachel Hollister, whose piano so
los are alwavs a rare treat, was at her
best in the difficult number, "La Belle
"apriecioa" (Hummel). After her came
Miss Marion Gove in three charming lit
tie vocal solos, "Four-Leaved (lover
(Brownell). "Cobwebs" (Gerrit Smith
and "Caution" (Paul Bliss).
A finely rendered and difficult number
was "Andante," concerto in O minor
(Mendelssohn), bv Miss Loraine Loran-
ger, and she was followed by Miss Mil
dred Kent, whose vocal solo, "Oh, Dry
Those Tears" (Del Riegol, proved one of
the most enjoyable numbers of the even
ing,
A fitting close to the program was the
duet for two pianos, "Overture to Zam
pi" (Harold) by Misses Loraine Loran-
ger, Rachel Hollister. Marion Anker and
Edith Virtue, which was finely rendered.
The vocal instructor, Miss Morse, was
the accompanist of the evening, and the
recital will be looked back upon as one
"SIX" CLASSES
- CONSPICUOUS
At - the Goddard Seminary
Alumni Exerr ?s.
Held To-d
PLACES 0 VitOGRAM
A' !uNED THEM
Lter the Graduates Went
to Hall for Their An
nual Dinner
Montpelier to-day to give a send-off to 'of the most successful ever held on the
the members of Company H who left for hill
the state camp ground. The '98 veterans
went in flag-decked automobiles. .
FLAG FELL AT NORTHFIELD.
BARRE GARAGE CORPORATION
Files Articles of Incorporation with $15,
000 Capital Stock.
The Barre Parage corporation. Inc., of
Barre. lias filed articles of aocistion
w-ith the vret.irv of state, having cap
ital to,k of Jl.i.iVHl. The ibcribers
are E. A. Drown. Morton H. MrAUiMer
and trf-orge Kent. Article have alo
Lewis S. Morey of the loth cav-lry i re- land possibly St. Johnsbury. which hssjhecn tiled by the St. Albans council,
ported to have been in command of the! been suggested by Montpelier, will a No knights of Columbus' Home aociatin.
uetacnmeni oi Americans in the Carrizal send representatives.
tight. I
I with capital stock of .".is). There are
WILL SUPPORT HUGHES
Saya Dr. H. Nelson Jackson, After At
tending Conference with R"evel?.
Dr. H. Nr!on Jckr,. Vermont com
mitteeman cf the Progressive psrtr. who
NEW ASST. SUPT., C V.
, G. W. Groom Promoted from Office
'nine subscribers and the corporation pur-
(poses t- purchase and hold real e.late.
But Fortunately No One Was Injured by
the Pole.
Northfield. June 22. Before entraining
for Fort Ethan Allen to-day Company F
was addressed from the band stand by
Capt. J. L. Moseley and ex-Congressman
Frank Plumley. At the close of Mr.
Plumley's talk the militia marched
around the common to music furnished
by the Northfield Cornet band. They
were escorted also by the Grand Army
veterans.
What came near being a serious acci
dent resulted as the company reached
the south corner of the park. A large
flagpole broke at its base Snd with no
warning toppled over, tailing tietween
the marcher and the crowd assembled to
give the bovs a royal send-off. No one
H injured.
CALISTA PRATT EASTMAN
JOINS YALE BATTERY.
Con-
of I HELD FOR ASSAULT.
Chief Dispatcher. I
... , , . , . 'Frank Larrow, Charged with Attacking
St. Albans, June 22. A circular isued i .. , , . ,
thia morning from the office of the ten- Hl Stepfather at Pittsfirt.
trsl Vermont railroad, announced that . Pittfi-dd. June 22 Frank Ijtrm.
returned yeterlT tr"in a rontmmflU'. (,r m has been appointed luiilinl run nlA i in ii't!v here fV- .1
with Poosevelt and o'her leader r.f the mperintendent w tt h an office at St. A I-licked assault with a rlub ye-trriay i
party, mm-i in rep x i i oi ko,. , h. to sm-ccd -I. I. Keete who reined, i m..rmr.z upon V alter h;te. XV oi, the Cf. Emphasised Need ef 140 New !
-1 -" --'.-.-- !.- -.T,u i, in- i i nf cm-mar m 7'iM.in--j i-fi r i irn!i i ,-f. tnn;ii two mil frrm
Frank Corry of Montpelier Is in
necticut National Guard.
Frank Corrv, son of Mr. and Mr.
Frank M. Corry of Montpelier. and a
student at Vale university, ha joined
the 'Vale bttervof the Connect icut Na
tional l.tiard. lie wired hi parent for
permi-in to join veterdsy and a al
lowed to do o.
Died This Morning of a General Breaking
Down.
Calista Pratt Eastman, wife of the late
Merrill Eastnwn of 14.3 Washington
street, died early this morning of old age
and general breakdown. Mrs. Eastman
was born in Huntington, March 12, 1 S2f,
last of a family of 10 born to Guilford
and Pollv Terrall Pratt.
She leaves several nephews and nieces
amonc whom jre .Marv hastman, with
whom she lived. C. L. Currier and wife
of this city. Jane Winchester of Eex
Junction, ami Guilford P. Heath of
Northboro. Mass. The funeral will be
held Saturday at 2 p. m.. from the house
on Washington street. Burial will take
place in Hope cemetery.
Six" classes were conspicuous in the
annual alumni eiercises at Goddard sem-
nary this forenoon, although there was a
erv representative gathering of gradu
ates from many of the classes that have
gone out from the school since the doors
first swung open in the early '70's.
lasses of 187(1, 18S6. 1806 and I0O6 were
out in numbers, and places on the pro
gram were plentifully assigned to their
representatives. The exercises began at
o clock, nut the noon hour was tar
pent before the alumni program was
through and the "old grads" repaired to
the hall below for their annual dinner.
Stanley C. Wilson, '06. a Chelsea attor-
ey, was the orator of the day, and con-
ributions to the program were made by
Miss Ethel May Hamilton, '00, of Way-
and, Mass., and Mrs. Minnie Skinner Al-
n, '80, of Barre. Weston A. tate, a
member of the class of 1913 and a stu
dent in the theological seminary at St.
Lawrence university, Canton, N. Y., who
is supplying the Universalist churches in
orth Montpelier and Last .Montpelier
his summer, presided at the exereises
nd in the absence of the clergyman as- '
gned to the exercises, Mr. Cate led the
udience in prayer.
Excellent music was rendered by
Cleaves' orchestra of Montpelier, and
whenever the musicians sat down to their
tasks they were liberally applauded.
The opening number was an orchestral
salute, "Bells of Normandy" (Wiegandi.
The invocation followed, and then Mrs.
Allen sang "When the Heart Is Young'
(Buck). "The Governor of Tennessee"
was the title of a reading delivered by
Miss Hamilton, who exhibited rare histri
onic jxiwers in the interpretation of a
difficult piece. Miss Hamilton, as' one of
the members of the 1900 class who have
been eminently successful in their chosen
professions, received a warm welcome.
The "sixes" did well to select Attorney
Wilson of Chelsea as their spokesman.
In his address, the speaker called up
some of the teuderest traditions of his
own class, that of 18!6, as well as some
of the other memories that still linger
in more mature graduates of the school
on the hill. There were 26 members in
IS9H, he said, and onlv two of them had
passed away. Two members of the ISMt
class have died, and those students who
were graduated in 1870, one of the earli
est of classes, have lost but one of their
number, an unusual record. In 1016 there
were 25 students who received diplomas,
and to-dav 24 are living. Mr. Wilsou ex
pressed the conviction that the 30 stu
dents who comprise the 1910 class are all
alive, alive to the value of their oppor
tunity and to the privilege that has been
theirs in making Goddard their school
home.
The real value of Goddard," tha
speaker continued, "becomes more and
more apparent to me as the years go on.
It grows upon me that the secret of the
school's success is its faculty for making
the students feel at home. It is homo
school in the best sense of the word and .
may the day never dawn when it be
comes so big that the home spirit is lost.'
The speaker paid tribute to the high
traditions of Goddard in the past, re
ferred to the various improvements to ba
noted by the alumnus who has not "re
turned tor several years, ana Bespoke
for the institution a continuance of tha
"preparedness" policy in educational
matters.
Much that Attorney Wilson had to say
was well calcinated to iii'Kie me risioui-
ties of the occasion, and when he turned
point in a particularly neat way he
TALK OF THE TOWN
never lacked tor a neaity response in
the shape of laughter. In closing, hu
addressed himself in a more serious fash
ion and said that he would like to see
more alumni teachers living in Hie school
building. The presence of graduates w ho
are in touch w it H tne. real scnooi spins
of Goddard would have a splendid influ
ence on the incoming students, ne oe-
ieved. At the close the speaker urged
upon his nearers tne necessity ror con-
nued lovaltv to the scnooi and asked
that the best traditions of the Goddard
of other days may be upheld by the stu
dents who are to leceive their diplomas
o-morrow.
Music by the orWiestra followed th
address, the musicians contributing a
piritcd wait j, "Badl'n Madl'n" (Kom-
zaki to the program at this juncture.
Mis Hamilton entertained again in a.
delightful characterization, entitled "Howr
Mr. Williams Painted Her House." Tho
program closed with the audience singing
the school song, "Goddard, AH Hail," in
unison.
WANTS TO INCREASE STOCK.
MORS RECRUITS WANTED.
at .;.- June 2rt i!
Mi Beatrice I-ance. a student at God
dsrd seminary, left this afternoon for
her home in Ohot.
Ilwtr Thompson of the East Barre
road wa taken to the Mate hospital at
Waterburv in Whitcomb' auto ambu
lance yesterday and will receive treat
ment there.
Ijt evening the undergraduate of the
Thompwn Memorial gave a uper in the
d ninp room in honor of the graduates of
thst building. The dining room w at
tractively decorated and the tib'e
formed a "T". Ihirinjr the supier
uet were entertained by a vittrola.
After supper toa-t weje given by l.y
rmn Wbiteomh. Mis Ina .ry and M:
jKsihleen LeBaron. the two latter giving I. company
People's. Gas Company Also Wishes to
Issue Mortgage Bonds.
The People's l ighting. Heating A Pow .
er company of Barre h. applied to tb
Vermont public service commission for
the right to mortgage it corpoiate prop
erty not to exceed J.i.is and that tha
ne' proceed of the Mle of lirt.i: there
of be uet to icfuicl it existing 6 per
cent tirt mortgage Isinds and also for
the right t" fuel a past of it- t! Mtinj
debt and mske etenion snd improxe
ment' to the proj-ettv. Tf.e company
the ial ak the rgbf to m reuse it p-
ital -to k bv iumg .vnrl rumulatnA
pteterred M'k aid in- idnta!!y. t
hrgc the -rpofte nsme to ' Brr
'I'
dclne f ac-! Buck l.a tie!i appointed fhief ,rjich.r ithi i!!re. alter a quarrel over tnmv. I T p !tler ei-ericn. in . King, and Mr
t St. Aihan. IHi;ng t'e vj.sn-y made The man mj;itie are nr.t fatal. White, ort shell. -lune .J tel. Feete. pre- J v hlmn;li gn ing hi eTf-crtcm-e at lu't
br the trom"tin ! G. W. Gr,m. Tie ' married larrow nh't. ( i-n.lihV H..i-Irt f Norwi-k ur. i" v. arriocn-e-l ? .; Vge. .h..:jt 24 peopl" were pre-ent.
nffU-e of awistarl t superiBt-odent has A. l-iheld mi A fake larrow t 4jj to Ibe today tSat tSe avaby did hnut at in, IhIit-j matron, teailers. stuvnls aBjjt-e hi-ar-ng to I Ini in the
t-n aV'li-b'd. cunt? ;tl in Kut'and. Nor h auut retwive 1 i') Bior rexTji.,! at fr -n;&. ... . ic-m ta F-arre.
The rul'-ic er' i
July next, at 1"
'r r-earir n ;
fo?r
" a. m..
ion h ft
' tle daf
4 char;"-.
Ci'J CUjII
I
