k'~~~~~~ nn I" Ii'%ANIA T,1EH
THE CANDIDATES WILL:E HERE THURSDAY JUNE 22-- MANNING, BLEASE, UOOPER AND
___ _PICKENS_SENTINEL_
PUBLISHEDWEEKLY OFFICIAL PAPER OF PIOKENS COUNTY SUBSCRIPTION PRICE ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR
Established 1871 Volume 40 PICKENS. 8. S ., JUNE 22, 1916 Number
IMARRIAGFS
Lewis-Craig
Miss Mary Elizabeth Lewis and Mr.
Samuel 'Bryan Craig were married at
the Presbyterian church here Wednes
day evening at nine o'clock, in the pres
ence of a gathering that filled the seat
ing capacity of the church.
The church was beautiful with its
decoration of green and white-the col
or scheme. Against a back-ground of
white, palms and ferns were artistical
ly arranged dotted here and there with
green and white candles. Magnolias
and cape jasemines in"profusion added
the finishing touch and the scene was
one of rare beauty.
Several beautiful selections with the
violin were rendered by Oliver Boggs
with piano accompaniment played by
Miss Ruth Parsons just prior to the en
trance .of the wedding party.
To the strains of Mendelsshon's wed
ding umarch played by Miss Parsons the
bridal party came down the aisles. The
bride with her maid of honor, Miss
Fredda Hughes, was met at the altar
by the groom with his brother, L. Court
ney ,Craig, the music then changed to
Shubert's serenade during the cere
mony, which was impressively read by
Rev. John C. Bailey.
The bride was daintily and exquisite
ly dressed in a gown of white crepe de
chine with pearl trimmings--the veil of
tulle gracefully arranged and held by
ropes of pearls. She carried a bouquet
of bride's roses and lillies of the valley.
The ushers for the occasion were
Messrs. A. C. Mann of Union, G.'G.
* Christopher of Greer, E. F. Alexander
and B. B. Porter of Pickens.
The bride and groom left immediate
ly after the ceremony and will visit
points of interest in North Carolina be
fore returning to Pickens, where they
make their home.
Mrs Craig is the daughter of Mrs.
4 Margaret G. Lewis and numbers her
friends by the score. Mr. Craig is a
member of the law firm of McSwain
and Craig and was graduated from the
University of South Carolina in the law
class of '14. It is a source of pleasure
to their friends for this popular young
couple to continue to make Pickens
their home.
Among the out of town guests attend
ing the wedding were, Hon. J. J. Mc
Swain and L. H. Craig of Greenville,
Dr. J., E. Algood. Miss Elizabeth Al
good ynd Mr. and Mrs. Joke Algood of
Liberty, Mrs. W. H. Hughes and daugh
ter, Miss Fredda Hughes, of Richland,
Mr. H. P. Sitton, Mr. and Mrs. B. H.
.Saddler of Pendleton, Mrs. Boyce Hop
kins of Seneca, Mr. and Mrs. G. W.
Cox, W. L. Sutherland, Frank Suther
land and Miss Edith Cox of Belton.
Hamilton-Sims
A wedding of interest to the friends
of the contracting parties was that of
Miss Jessie Hamilton and Mr.Johnson J.
Sims, which took place at the home of
the bride in Easley last Wednesday,
Rev. H. K. Williams performing the
~ceremony. Mrs. Sims is the second
daughter of Mrs. W. A. Hamilton and
is one of Easley's most popular young
* .~.. ladies. Mr. Sims holds a responsible
position in the office of the Glenwood
mills and is held in high esteem. They
will continue to make their home in
Easley.
Goddard-Hamilton
* Mr. E. L. Hamilton and Miss Mamie
Goddard were married last Wednesday
at the home of Miss Goddard, near
Coronaca, S. C., Rev. tE. V. Babb of
Newberry p~erformling the ceremony.
The wedding was a brilliant affair and
was attended by a number of people
- from Easley. Mr. Hamilton is one of
Easley's most prominent and popular
business men, while Mrs. Hamilton as
Miss Goddard wyas very popular in Eas
ley, having made her home there for
some time.
Cobb-Wyatt
Another wedding in which prominent
Easley people were the contracting par
ties was that of Mr. A. Frank Wyatt
and Miss Launa Cobb, which took place
at the home of the bride's parents, Mr.
and Mrs. D. B. Cobb, last Wednesday
* afternoon at 6 o'clock. Rev. C. D.
Waller performed the ceremony. Mrs.
Wyatt is the oldest daughter of Mr.
W ~ and Mrs. D. B. Cobb and is very popu.
lar in Easley. Mr. Wyatt is a promi
nent business man of Easley, being as
sistant cashier of the Easley Loan &
Trust Co., and is very popular bothi in
business pnd social life.
Holcomnbe-Clark
Mitled byJ, 3. Newbery at his office
Saturday June 17, HISS play. Ioloembe
sad4 1frVelmor Clarls. both of P'Ilk'en
From Marietta Route Two
We haven't any news of very much
importance, except the old, old story
grass, grass, grass, and still the rains
come and keep old green on the upgo.
The Rev. J. ,. F' terfilled his regu
lar appointment at Mt. Tabor church on
the fourth Sunday. -His subject on this
occasion was'"It Is Finished." Bro.
Foster, as usual, .handled his subject
well. The Lord's Supper was also ad
ministered at the service. I wish to
say just here that the singers deserve
much praise for the part they play in
the services at Tabor, as they average
up with most of the classes in the county
on good singing and attendance.
Oolenoy Camp W. 0. W., No. 577,
very fittingly decorated the grave of
Jesse A. Hendricks -at Mt. Tabor church
on the second Sunday at 4 o'clock p. in.
The address was very ably delivered by
Mr. D. W. Smoak of Greenville.
The writer had the pleasure of attend
ing the Dacusville township singing
convention at Nine Forks church on the
first Sunday evening and am proud to
tell you, Mr. Editor and Sentinel read
ers, they sure up on the singing busi
ness. This convention will meet with
Colenoy Baptist church the first Sun
day in July.
Mrs. Robert Nimmons, who has been
seriously ill, is reported as being some
what improved at this writing.
PROGRESSIVE.
Fourth of July Services
All day religious service will be held
at Mountain View Baptist church the
Fourth of July. Talks, songs andother
forms of religious entertainment will
occupy the time. This will be a unique
and appropriate way to celebrate the
one hundred and fortieth anniversary of
the independence of these glorious
United States. Tuesday, July 4, will
be the day and everybody is invited to
come "and bring song-books and well
filled baskets."
Great Meeting at Easley
The protracted meeting at Easley
conducted by Rev. Mr. Danner is
attracting large crowds and much in
terest is being manifested. Mr. Dan
ner is a born evarigelist. - The Lord
seems to have called him to that special
work. He is a bold, fearless preacher.
He believes in a heartfelt religion.
The meeting makes one think of an old
time Methodist camp meeting, before
people became too proud to kneel at the
altar and ask for the prayers of Chris
tians, and when people were not ashamed
to shout when the spirit of God moved
upon them with power. On last Sun
day afternoon 0. K. Mauldin, Esq., of
Greenville, a young lawyer who was
recently converted, made P great talk
to men and about forty men -ve their
hands to live a better life. lr. Mauldin
is a man of powerful intellect and if he
should decide to enter the ministry he
would doubtless be a great preacher
and accomplish much in the Master's
cause. May the Lord guide him. H.
Arnold-Rogers
Married, at the home of the bride on
Pendleton street in Greenville on the
14th :inst., Miss May Arnold to Mr.
Thaddeus E. Rogers, of Greenville.
Miss Arnold is the youngest daughter
of J. T. Arnold, whose home wvas in
Easley for many years. Mr. Rogers is
a prosperous young merchant of Green
ville. The home was beautifully deco
rated for the occasion and there wvere
many invited guests. Rev. D. W. Hiott,
an old time friend of the family. peCr
formed the ceremony. May success at
tend this young couple.
DuBose-Boykin
Invitations as follows hav'e been re
ceived in Pickens:
"Mrs. Edward Cassels Dtulose in~vites
you to be present at the Wedding re
ception of her daughter, Elizabeth
Shannon, and Mr. Elias Miller Boykin
on Wednesday evening, the ,twenty
eighth of June, from nine to eleven
o'clock, at home, Camden, South Caro
lina. Ceremony at half after eight
o'clock."
Miss Dulose is a former resident of
Pickens having taught in the high
school here. She is a sister of A. P.
DuBose of Easley. Both Mrs. DuBose
and Miss DuBose are pleasantly remem
bered here and she has a number of
friends who will read this announce
ment with interest.
Tollison-Brookshire
H. P. Brookshlre, proprietor of
Brookshire's garage here, left Friday
for Laurens, where on Saturday he was
married to Miss Annie Tollison. The
young couple went to Wrightsville
liecl, N. C., to spend a few days after
wihthey 4vill return to Pieicens where
Wil ae their home.
PICKENS TO :
BOOSTER C
Pickens is to have a chautauqua. A
representative of the Radcliffe bureau
was in Pickens last week and met a
committee of citizens and a contract
was signed. The dates set are: Satur
day, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, July
8, 9, 10 and 11. There will be three big
days, and on Sunday one of the noted
lecturers of the Radcliffe bureau will
deliver an address.
The first day attractions are the Co
lumbia Concert company and Dr. D. W.
Daniel. The first is a concert company
composed of young ladies. Dr. D. W.
Daniel of Clemson College, a man that
we all know and admire, will be on the
program the first day and we are fortu
uate in securing him.
The second day attractions are Durno
the Mysterious, and company, and Eu
gene Lockhart, entertainer, formerly
with the Kilties Band.
The third daj the Tryolean Alpine
Yodlers will be here. This is a unique
and delightful entertainment. The yodel
songs of these mggic singers has charmed
audiences all over the world. Dr. Frank
Sampson, William Rader or Albert Ma
rion Hyde will be our chautauqua direc
tor and will deliver addresses. These
men are all noted orators.
Pickens is fortunate in securing this
group of entertainments. If every good
citizen will respond promptly and buy
season tickets success will be assured.
LOCAL NEWS
N. A. Christopher is annoueced this
week as a candidate for re-election to
the office of auditor. He has served
the county for several years and has
made a good officer.
Dr. W. R. Craig of Walhalla, who
has been visiting relatives in Pickens,
left lastWednesday morning for Atlanta,
where he was married to a Miss Wal
lace of Atlanta Thursday evening.
Mr. and Mrs. M. F. Hester, Pearl
and Ralph Hester, A. J. Boggs, Jr.,
Harry Robinson, Miss Ruth Gravely
and Verner Christopher left Pickens
last Wednesday morning for Atlanta.
They made the trip by automobile.
Enough money has been raised to se
cure the military school at Chick Springs.
Dr. McCoy of the Riverside academy
will be the principal of the school, and
it is understood that the organization
will begin at once. It will be a prepar
atory school.
The date for the get-together meet
ing for the elders, deacons, Sunday
school superintendents and preachers of
Piedmont Presbytery to be held in An
derson has been changed from Tuesday,
June 27, to Thursday, June 29.
George Brock, 16-year-old son of John
Brock of Central, died at the home of
his father last Monday morning. He
had been sikk for some time and his
death was not unexpected. He wvas a
nephew of Dr. F. S. Porter of Pickens.
Dr. R. J. Gilliland, a prominent phy
sician of Easley, suffered a stroke of
paralysis last Sunday night. He was
attending a patient wvhen stricken. He
was completely paralyzed and is in a
critical condition. Tuesday morning his
condition was reported some better.
Rev. John C. Bailey, pastor of the
Presbyterian church, preached at Sunse t
last Sunday afternoon. He wvas ac
comipanied by J .T.Richey, J.DYongue
and others from Pickens. They were
the guests of W. W. Aiken at Sunset.
Clarence Mann has returned from the
University of Routhi Carolina and is
now busy in the interest of his candi
dacy for the House of Representatives.
He is a son of Mr. and Mrs. Aaron Mann
of the Six Mile section and is well
known throughout Pickens county.
Rev. Charles R. Bailey of Menlo,
Ga., a brother of Rev. John C. Bailey,
of Liberty, occupied the pulpit of the
Pickens Presbyterian church Sunday
afternoon and delivered a strong and
pleasing sermon. H~e will be married
June 21 to Miss Stella Sarratt of Gaff
ney.
John W. Whitmire died at his home
near Pickens last Sunday,. He was
about 60 years of age and leaves 'a wife
and several children. Just one month
previous to his Aeath the baby phild of
the famnily, about two years old; was
burled. The bereaved ones have the
sympathy of the community.
HAVE BIG
HAUTAUQUA
Two teams are now busy selling tickets,
the Reds and the Blues. N. B. Porter
is captain of the Blues and A. D. Atta
way is captain of the Reds. - Buy season
tickets now. The price is only $1.50.
Single admission tickets will be 50 cents.
The foillowing are the officers and the
chairmen of the committees. E. F. Alex
ander, president; Sam B. Craig, sec.
and treas.: T. A. Bowen, chm. adver
tising corn.; B. F. Parsons, chm. tent
com.; T. A. Bowen, chm. agricultural
com.; R. T. Hallum, chm. educational
corn.; J. T. Taylor, chm. health com.;
T. H. Stewart, chm. music com.
It will be seen from the above that
agriculture, education and health will
each have a part to play. In the morn
ing of each day will be held the free
entertainments. One morning will be
devoted to agriculture and an address
will be delivered and probably exhibits
will be had. The next morning to ed
ucation and the next morning to health.
These addresses will be made by noted
men and the morning entertainments
will be free. The other attractions will
be held in the afternoon and at night.
The entertainments will be held in a
big tent, probably on the court house
square.
Committees have been appointed to
look after the details. Let's make July
8, 9, 10 and 11 days long to be remem
berel in Pickens.
Are you going to do your part?
OF INTEREST
Mrs. Frank McFall was hostess at i
rook party Tuesday morning in honoi
of Mrs. James Hagood Bruce. Pro
gressive rook was the feature of th
morning, after which other contest,
were indulged in., During the mornin
delightful punch was served by Misse
Bernice Carey and Floy Herde.
We regret to see Mr. and Mrs. Davii
Stansell leave our town. They hav
been here in business for several yeari
and our people have become very mued
attached to them. We sincerely hope
that they will be happy and prosperom
in their new home in Greenville, where
Mr. Stansell has accepted a position
with the Piedmont Shoe Co.
There will be an all-day service at
Oolenoy church on the first Sunday in
July. Preaching by the pastor, Rev.
W. C. Seaborn, at 11 o'clock. In the
afternoon the Dacusville singing con.
vention will meet with the church.
Dinner will be served on the ground.
All lovers of music are invited to come
"and bring song-broks and well-filled
baskets."
Prof. James A. Robinson, the well
known singer of Dacusville, was in
Pickens a short while Saturday. He
stated that at the last convention of the
Dacusville singmng association good old
Golenoy church was admitted as a mem
ber and that the next convention would
be held there the first Sunday in July.
There will be preaching in the morning
and singing in the afternoon. Dinner
will be served on the ground.
The friends of D. E. Garrett have
persuaded him to make the race for the
legislature and his announcement ap
pears in today's papeJt. Mr. Garrett
is one of the best known men in the
county. He is a farmer living near Six
Mile and has for eighteen years been
clerk of the board of trustees of his
school district. He has also served as
magistrate and other oil. -s of trust.
Hlis friends who sent in his announce
ment are enthusiastic for him.
Colie Sea born, star athlete, has re
turned from the University of South
Carolina, and dropped into The Sentinel
office Thursday to let us know that he
expected to do his share of "pulling the
bell-cord over maude this Isummer."
He made a good record at school the
past term, both in scholarship and ath
letics. lie says that pulling the bell
cord will keep him in good shape for
the next football season. Bully for
Colie.
Miss Cleo Hallum of the Pickens can
ning club and Miss Ora Prince of Six
Mile, prize-winning girls of the county,
left Monday for Winthrop college. They
will be at Winthrop for two weeks and
will take up the regular work of the
short course provided for the club girls.
These scholarship~s were awarded to the
girls who made the best record up te
May 27. .Two scholarships will also be
awarded at'the end of the year to those
who make the best record for the entire
year
Mrs. T. J. Mauldin Entertains
An enjoyable social event of the week
was the reception given by Mrs. T. J.
Mauldin at her beautiful home "Home
stead Hall," Friday afternoon in
honor of Mrs. James Hagood Bruce, a
recent bride. More than a hundred
guests were present and enjoyed a de
lightful afternoon. Mrs. Frank McFall
and Mrs. Robert Hendricks greeted the
guests upon entering, while Mrs. MeD.
Bruce and Mrs. B. D. Lenhardt receiv
ed in the reception hall and presented
the guests .to the receiving line in the
sitting room, which was headed by Mrs.
T. J. Mauldin, the hostess, with Mrs.
Bruce, the honor guest. Quantities of
sweet peas with palms and ferns fur
nished the decorations in the living
room and sitting room, which were
beautiful. From the sitting room the
guests were invited by Mrs. C. B. Ha
good into the dining room, which was
lovely in pink and white. Here Mrs.
W. T. McFall and Mrs. W. F. Mauldin
presided. Block pink and white cream
and cake, followed by mints, were
served by Misses Alexander, West,
Kathrine Hagood and Ivy Mauldin.
Appriopriate souvenirs were given each
guest aqd the affair will long be
remembeied by those present as a most
delightful occasion.
Pickens Co. News 40 Years Age
Pickent Sentinel, June 22, 1876.
There is not a pound of meat for sal(
in this town. The merchants are all
out and are unable to get it shipped ov.
er the railroad. Those who depend or
them for a supply are in a grumbling
mood.
Elihu Griffin's mill on Rice's Crees
was washed away by the freshet.
C. L. Hollingsworth, Esq., informt
us that his crop on Twelve Mile river ii
totally ruined. His neighbors are no
better off.
Pickens prices current. Corrected b:
W. T. McFell. Cotton 11 1-2 to 11 3-4
Cotton seek, per pound, 4c. Eggs, pe
dozen, 10e. Corn 75c. Wheat $1.5(
Flour $8 and $10. Peas 90c.
We find the following announcement
I of: John J. Lewis for clerk of court
W. G. Field for probate judge, J. Rile;
Ferguson for sheriff, J. S. Carlisle an
M. IS. Hendricks for school commis
sioner.
We also find an account of "the mos1
destructive freshet that within the
memory of the oldest inhabitants ha
ever visited this section. Rain fell fron'
Sunday until . the following Saturda3
night, causing almost a total destrue
tion of the crop and washing away al
the bridges in the county except one oi
two."
A Suggestion
A custom that I believe we ought tc
change is that of opening the casket al
the church and allowing a great throng
of people, many or them from mere
curiosity or because it is a custom, tc
come up and gaze at the features of
our beloved dead. And especially the
custom of holding up little children te
look into the colln. It always exciteF
children and makes them nervous. A
casket should not be opened at the
church unless it he in the case ofta near'
relative wvho could not p~ossibly get to
the home before the burial, If anyone
should desire especially to see the (lead
let them go to the home and look be
fore the funeral procession starts to
the church or the cenmetery. I wvould
rather remember my friends as they
look while living. Children become so
excited or stirredl by idle curiosity that
frequently I have to get them to move
away so I can get to the grave to pro
nounce the benediction.
Let the people think about it and if
the suggestion is wvorth anything all
right, if not pas it on. In this case I
am trying to carry out the golden rule.
I am trying to do by you like I would
have you (d0 by me. Respectfully,
D). W. II10Tvr.
Park Ready For Play
The members of the W. C. TI. U. have
fixed up a park andi lalygrou~nd in the
grove in front of R. F. Herd's :resi
dlence. A tennis court has been made
and plenty of seats provided and the
place in other ways has been made at
tractive. They wish to invite the gen
eral public, and esp~ecially the children,
to visit the park at any and all times,
It has been made for their benefit an(
pleasure and it is the desire of th<
members that they enjoy it. The lan<
Is being used through the kindness 0:
the owner, Capt. I. M. Mauldin.
Sam J. Ashmore of Wichita Falls
Texas, Is vislting his parents, Mr. ani
Mrs. W. H. Ashmore, in Pickens. HI
many frienda hsre ae .Iad to -e hi
POLITICAL..
The candidates for state offices will
be here Thursday, the 22d, coming here
from Greenville, where they speak on
Wednesday. The campaign opened In
Spartanburg Tuesday of this week. The
speaking will take place on the court
house lawn, as has been the custom
heretofore. The speakingwill probably
begin about 10 o'clock. The candidates
will arrange the order 'of speaking
among themselves, so it is impossible
to tell who will "start the ball rolling
and who will stop it."
The greatest interest centers in the
race for governor. Five candidates
have filed their pledge for this office
and will be here Thursday: R. I. Man
ning, R. A. Cooper, Cole Blease, J M.
DesChamps and John T. Duncan. There
are two candidates for state treasurer
and five for railroad commissioner,
Cansler, of Tirzah, being one of the
number. All others are without oppo
sition.
The candidates for governor were all
given a patient hearing in Spartanburg
Tuesday. All were generously applaud
-d and there was no excitement.
W. C. Mann's Platform
Fellow Citizens of Pickens County:
I ask for your support not on the de
merits of my opponents, but on the fol
lowing grounds:
1. The state or county should allow
each thief so much per day until he has
reimbursed the property taken or de
stroyed by him; then he should serve
his given sentence with the state or
county.
2. 1 stand for an increased pension for
old soldiers.
3. Seeing that the present game law
is in reality merely a statute, I stand
for the repealing of said law, or to so
amend it that it will serve its purpose.
(My amendment will be explained on.
the stump.)
r 4. 1 stand for the amending of the
Jim Crow law, making it unlawful for
any white person'or persons'to teach in
any colored school, as it is toda'y MaqV -
ful for, any negro to teach in a white
school.
5. 1 stand for the adoption of the
"County system" school law in this
state.
6. 1 stand for better roads on a more
economical maintenance plan; the estab
lishment of a state highway commis
sioner's office, the duties of said com
missioner being similar to those of the
state superintendent of education.
There are numerous other needs that
I might mention, but space forbids my
doing so.
I have attended the legislature for the
last three years while in college at Co
lumbia and have studied closely the
needs of the people, and despite my
brevity in years (this, of course, I am
not responsible for, but am remedying
every day), I hope, if elected toa man's
position, to give you a man's service.
I assure you that your vote will not
be as seed cast by the wayside and that
it wvill be applreciated.
(adv) WV. CLARENCE MANN.
Program for Three Day Short
Course by County Agent
Miss Elizabeth Mauldin, county dem
onstration agent, is now very busy
making preparations for . the short
cou rse.
The followving is a program of the
work:
First Day -10 to 11 chapel. A ddress
of welcome. Address, Relation of5
schools and dlemonstrationi work. Or
ganization. 11 to 12:80, basket making.
2 to 4, canning tomatoes, making soup
mixtures and catsup). 4 to 4:30, gar
dlening. 8 to 10, some feature of enter
tainment.
Second Day-8:30 to 9, chapel. Ad
dress. 9 to 11, canning fruits. 11 to
11:30, address. 11:30 to 12, gardening.
Discussion of record books. 12:80 to 2,
dinner. 2 to 4, Pimento and peanut
butter (demonstration. 4 to 4:30, ad
dIress.
T1hird D)ay-8:30 to 9, chapel. 9 to
9:30, grading. 9:30 to 10, exhibits.
10 to 12:30, address. 12:30 to 2, picnte
dinner. 2 to 3, bread demonstration.
Demonstration of home conveniences.
3 to 5, entertainment for the visitors..
Miss L~ois C. Erwin of Spartanburg,
Miss Mary Parrott of Cherokee, and
Mrs. Marvin Willimon ot Greenville'
county, have been engaged to help Mis
IMauldin. Miss Edith L. Parrot t and
Miss Dora Dee Walker, state agents,
will also be present one day each. - b'b
In other counties this three-day course 9
has been of great benefit to the womnep '
and girls. It Is hoped that As many as
can will take advantage of .this work
and be present during the whole tinle.
i Meber ofthecanning, bread and
.urggd to attend.
