r v
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
GADSDEN
VOLUME XL VI. NUMBER 30
YUMA, ARIZONA, THURSDAY, JUNE 22, 1916.
It
SI JOHN" IS OUT
SUPERVISOR J03
ALL ATTENTION ON
MEXICAN SITUATION
(Associated Press)
WASHINGTON, June 23.
Hope persists that a war
may be averted. The Mexico
Everybody knows Col. John Shans
lc. "Always cu ihe iob." and alhe
to the interests of the comiupn peo- I City dispatches indicated the
pie. It has been said that since I same feeling there,
time immemorial, Col Shanssey wasj However, the Olltlook is
mayor of Yuma, and many old-timers j j i
still call him mayor and not without j , , , . ,
reason, for when a man is mayor of j Orders have been ISSUed
a city six times as was Col. Shanssy, ifor 10,000 guardsmen of the
it becomes a habit, and the Colonel j Central Or Western States
in his buggy driving his time-honored ! prenare to move to the bor
horse is even now a familiar figure j
uii oecuiiu avenue ueiween 111s nome
and the court house, where he serves
the people as county supervisor, an of
fice he has held two terms.
Col. Shanssy was always on duty,
SO days in a month, and was in fact
an efficient manager of the county's
business, day or night.
What more could the people want?
mo DiiEimiCD'o pnATi coo nave
i un duifii? eng o uuhillou uhiu
MEXICAN TROOPS IN
COLUMBUS VICINITY
(Special to the Yuma Daily Examiner) important role. Of course there never
NEW YORK, June 23 Just at this , js a closed season for them, but at
time nf the vear. when wr are all nf this time their real charm is best
us finding the coat very irksome in
deed, one-piece frocks play a most
fight
from
of the Carrizal
Pershing.
The navy's official report
showing an unprovoked at
tack on sailors at Mazatlan
Especially now that Yuma county has ! last Sunday did not help mat
grown to be a $li,000,000 .business ! terS.
concern.
Col. Shanssy isn't out for the
The administration is now
awaiting the official details
$85 (
Officials
ed in the
here are interest-
per month that the position of super- u 111 l"u UJJUluUdl icjjuii
yisor pays (the typist in the office i that Villa is at Escalon, Chi
gets more than that), but everyone I huahua, negotiating with the
who knows him realizes that he , Carranzistas for amnesty and
would not be happy unless attending commission jn the Mexican
to the people s business about the I
city and county of Yuma. And it's 'rmy.
a safe bet that if -Colonel Shanssy1 Baker published ' Persll
is ever to retire to private life which illg's report fl'Om the Strag
is a remote possibility his great in-gjers wh0 blame the Carran
terest in the public welfare would find ,L.-QtQ ror i. :u.
mm unviug iiuuui, uossing street worK
or building construction, just from a
"force of habit." '
And, since the people will always
find him on the 30b anyway, and no
better man can be found to manage
the people's affairs, the rank and file
of our citizens may decide to nominate
and elect Col. Shanssy to the office !
of supervisor by the largest majority
he has ever received.
MILITIA TO BE USED
SOON AS POSSIBLE
(Associated Press)
WASHINGTON, June 23'str
ARREDONDO SPEAKS
TO LATIN-AMERICA
appreciated.
McCALL
Russian Blouse of. Embroidered Ba
tiste with Plain Tussah Skirt
AIcCall . JX '
(Associated Press)
COLUMBUS, June 23.
! Scouting patrols today re
! ported small details of Car
ranzistas encamped about 20
miles south of the border.
The Mexican" customs of
ficials left the border for
Juarez. The sentries here
said they threatened to re
turn "with a Mexican army,
to clean up the gringoes."
It is unofficially reported
; this afternoon that Mexicans
crossed the border near Ha-
fenita and took some horses
land mules. And it is said
that U. S. troops pursued
jthem into Mexico.
NEWS FROM FRONT;
a mtm LIONS
Camp Harry J. Jones
Douglas, Ariz., June 21st,' 191G.
To the Citizens of Yuma. '
MEXICAN VERSION
OF CARRIZAL FIGHT
Embroidered Voile and Tinted Batiste
Flouncing
(Associated Fressl
WASHINGTON, June 23,
Ambassador Arredondo to
day personally informed the
STRAGGLERS TELL OF
THE CARRIZAL FIGHT
(Associated Press"!
SAN ANTONIO, June 23
ihe American trooos at
Central and South American , Carrizal were attacked with
diplomats that the Carranzis- out provocation, according to
tas had been ordered not to iff, p stnfv tnlH hv stmaaW
attack the American troops ;and transmitted b y Pershing.
LEGAL NOTICE
IN
THE SUPERIOR COURT
YUMA COUNTY, STATE
OF ARIZONA
Fidelity Title Guaranty Company,
plaintiff, vs. Arizona-Texas' Mining j questing arms,
He said he is obeying in- escaped during the fight'
ructions i rom his foreign !made their way t0 Rershing;
without awaiting
come of the battle
out meeting the
ments sent.
They said that the
the out
and with-reinforce-
Mexi-
and Milling Company, John C. Ott,
W. L. Baker, C. H. Wilkinson, T.
Collier, and William Murphy, and
Mel Greenleaf, sheriff, defendants.
Action brought in the Superior
Court of Yuma County, State of Ari
zona, and the complaint filed in said
County of Yuma, in the office of the
Clerk of the Superior Court.
CHIHUAHUA, June 23.
Gen. Trevino blamed the
American military for all the
trouble between the United
States and Mexico. Officers
in bringing thebooly'of Gen.
Felix Gomez Tomis city, said
that the Americans had evi
dently, been . instructed to
concentrate their fire on Go
mez, who was an easy target
because he was so large in
! body.
It is reported that the Na
0F miquipa base is - practically
abandoned, the Americans
giving captured bandit arms
to some ranchers.
Mexican towns are now re-
offering to
quip from 500 to 2,000 men
each.
YUMA THEATRE
secretarv ot War fcSaker ornce, wmcn aoes not men
today ordered all depatrmen- j tion Trevino's threat to at
tal commanders to send to I tack if Pershing moved any
the border all available mili-jway except in retirement,
tia without awaiting concen-! It is explained that the dis-
tration at the state camps, to 'crepancy between Arredon- cans attacked them after hav
such points as Funston desig-jdo's statement and Trevina's jng partly surrounded the
nates. remark is due to an interpre-iAmeircans under cover of a
Chairman Hay asked thejtation that ail troop niove-'parey between General Go
House to act immediately on ments are aggressive acts.. ;mez ancj Captain Boyd,
his resolution authorizing : Bovd dismounted his corn-
President Wilson to draft in- u. S. ARMY PREPARES i mand and returned the fire , nd plintiff' the s.T'lor Cou
to tne army ail guarosmen mrnrTTy AT r.nT AQ ionly after-the machine guns
willing to take the federal QUIkiLY AT jJOUulAS, , wftnf Airan
BA
THES DAY, JUNE 27
"PREPAREDNESS: OR, THE
TLE CRY OF FEACE"
A 9-reel Vitagraph feature war drama
In the name of the State of Arizona,
to Arizona-Texas Mining and Milling
Company, John C. Ott, W. L. Baker, ; PARTY DIFFERENCES
j. vi-i. vviiKiuson, i . uoiner, ana
William Murphy, and Mel Greenleaf,
defendants, .Greeting:
BURIED IN MEXICO
YOU ARE HEREBY SUMMONED
and required to appear in an action
brought against you by the above-
(Associated Press)
swent
t t . pr i . i . ' a-
oam. ne onerea an amena- . 4. ranks
, j i .i , , i n, fAssociated Press) lauiva.
ment declaring that the draft j Pershing reported that he
is required right now. DOUGLAS, June 23. , had warned Boyd not to pre-
The House unanimously jThe U. S. army, is quietly icipitate any trouble,
adopted the amendment. I preparing for developments. Officers here today feared
Later rnd arranginS warehouses to .that the American casualties
j supply a possible expedition iat Carrizal were heavy. They
The House adopted the , by collecting supplies. said that probably 40 were
uumpidte icbuiutiun. ir is reporrea mat toe Agua ivounded it 12 were killed.
Prieta customs officials are iThese with those captured
Born, to Mr and Mrs. Arthur Ver-j Q: tQ FronteraS. jconstitute half of Boyd's
dugo, a 9-pound girl yesterday after- -pi a r- i , i , ?
noon I Ihe American orfioials to-command; and they are not
j day forbade the Nacozari : certain that practically all of
Mrs. Harry l. Duty went to Los An-'railroad to send train's into the U. S. troops in that eng
geies yesterday. ' 'Mexico. gagement were wiped out.
NOGALES, June 23. Dr.
M. N. Wade and others, in
i. - - r O
of Yuma County, State of Arizona, and leiUllllllg 11U1I1 OUIIUia, bUlU
answer the Complaint therein filed today that all "country north
with the Clerk of this said Court, at .0f Magdalena is HOW alive
Yuma, in said county, within twenty wjth troops; we have never
days after the service upon you of this , jyrpx:cpn 9n hostile
Summons, if served in this said Coun- Sf eng rn.e 1'1.1Carla S0 n0Sy lQ
ty, or in all other cases within thirty ' aH Prty dltterences are DUr
days thereafter, the times above men- ied and all the people Spend
tioned being exclusive of the day of their nights in parading."
service, or judgment by default will be .
taken against you. jLOVE LETTERS ARE
Given under my hand and the seal
of the Superior Court of Yuma Coun-
of
ty, State of Arizona, this 29th day
April, 191G.
, H. B. FARMER,
(Seal) Clerk of said Superior Court
USED AGAINST ORPET
(Associated Press)
WAUKEGAN, June 23.
iThe state rested its prosecu-
Arizona Sentinel; first publication on'tion against Will Orpet after
June 8th; last publication, July g. reading his last love letters.
Dear Friend: ,
I will now take the pleasure to
answer the little piece of- news that
was published in the Parker Post
newspaper, that was. taken from a let
ter written by Private William E. Mil
:er, about tne conditions of the First
Arizona infantry,, and I wish to" say
in behalf o'f the outfit, that Mr. Miller
has stated a lie, and that he must
be one of those mama boys, that has
been used to having her comb his
hair, and wash his face for him every
morning.
I am one of the boys that Have had
service in the United States .army,
and I will say this much, that the
First Arizona infantry is just as good
a feeding military organization that
lias ever taken the field, and I will
also admit that the regiment is no ex
pert drilling outfit, and, under the
foregoing rules it could not be, but
just give it the time and let us get
rid of a few men like Private Miller.
so that we will not be handicapped.
We will take off our hats to no
one. Private Miller seems to be one
of those men that know more than his
officers. In regards to the grub, I
wish to say that we have eating at
our mess, the lieutenant colonel, two
staff officers and the company offi
cers, and that they eat the same as
do the men. I also wish to state, that
we have the best material in the state
for officers, and to my knowledge, wo
have the best officer that could be
had anywhere for a commanding of
ficer, namely, Col. Tuthill, and also
staff officers and line officers, many
of who have seen service in the army
serving through the Indian campaign,
the Spanish-American war, the Cuban
campaign, the China campaign, and
that they are as1 efficient men as we
could get to officer the regiment.
We have been paid once since we
have been here, and been -.issued all
new clothing throughout. The only
ones that did not get new clothing
were those that refused to muster in
to the federal service, because they
had a yellow streak down their backs.
j Those men, in my estimation, should
jnot be given a pleasant look. Maybe
that is what is bothering Mr. Miller.
Yuma county has furnished 114
men, excluding Mr. Miller, as we the
boys of Yuma. county do not consider
him as one of us.
From Allen R. Duncan, a witness of
preparedness, to William E. Miller, a
witness of unpreparedness.
H. H. DONKERSLEY,
Lieut. Col., 1st inf. A. O. M.
FRANK W. HALL, .
Capt. 1st Inf., A. O. M., Comd'g Co. L.
ALLEN R. DUNCAN,
1st. Sgt. Co. L, 1st. Inf. A. O. M.
LEE R. SMITH,
Sergt., Co. L, 1st. Inf., A. O. "M.
C. C. MAURER,
Co. Clerk, Co. L, 1st. Inf., A. O. M.
P. S Owing to the fact that the men
were called out last evening, it was
impossible to get their signatures.
Born, to Mr. and Mrs. Bloom, in the.
valley, a daughter, on Wednesday.
Acting Mayor Walter Moser went-.to
Los Angeles yesterday,
that he is ill:
It is reported
