Service for You
Let T-D Information Bureau
Answer Your Questions
Siclimond 0TitucSi9isnatcIj
Fix Your Own Car
Guerrlich, in the Sunday T.-D.
Will Tell You How
60th YEAR
voi.nir: ?o
m miiKit :?r.i
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1916.-FIFTY-TWO PAGES.
ti.A?KI,?KW ?CLEAR
PRICE, FIVE CENTS
PEACE PROPOSALS
SENI FORWARD TO
ENTENTE CAPITALS
Attitude of Allies Expected
to Find Expression
in London.
PREMIER WILL DISCUSS
SUBJECT ON TUESDAY
Central Powers' Notes Unaccom
panied by Any Expression
From United States.
IIKHXSTOISISKI-IS I. A X S I X (i
Declares Visit to 'secretary of State
Is Purely for (?eneral
Discussion.
WASH IN' ;T< >
ffirw;i rdI n g tit
pow.tM' prop- ? -
>1 official texts will probably be tor
waidcd later. in < t?J?? r to preclude anj
< lianc*' of i>ri Mi or mi*'nterpr*-t at ion.
\ .IT TO nil'AIII I s|:ri |.Miss
n\ \ti mi: in ion
Whether an;.- .??ivr? tion <>r offer to
mediate will 1m- made by tin* govern
ment until It is indicated immistakablv
that such action would Km- ?'??!? oincd
t?> both sides. remains undetermined,
but I't evident Wilson i.*-: known to be
anxious that the I'nited States shall
t. >t Impair its n.??* fulness as a mediator
by premature action.
The two-ilay delay a*. i 1?? a uniform
translation of the peace notes was
being prepured here may, in tin: belief
of some <1 iplomatls:.s, corstitute to it
.-elf <i hint to tic- belligerents of the
weight that is attached by American
otln lals t-> any peace proposal.
The unanimous declaration of the
Kussian I Mima against the peace pro
posal atotis'il irre.it Interest h?r>- par
ticularly in view of the many rumors
during 'lie last few tii->: tits hinting at
a possible separate peace for Kuss:;i.
The Itussian empire has b. ? ?: regarded
tn some quarters as the keystone in
the peace situation, and information as
to the i|ip;<>!n:tti< struggle In progress
there is meager. It is known, how
ever. tha*. a si'inirevolution has oe
t | red against the lierman elements ill
ihe court, ar.il the bu -au racy, and
the action of the (Council and the Duma
leiently in acting together for the
!lr>-t time m history is taken as an
indh atlot: "f the urea* strengthening
of the ;inti-t'n:nn:ii) party.
\ O \ Hi:M VSTOHIT t OMT.H?i
WITH s|:? |(i:'|'\lt\ I.WMMi
Count v?.n I't rnstorff. the Herman
ambassador, conferred with Secretary
I.arising to-da> seeking information of
t Ik attitude of the I'nited States to
ward the ? ? proposals of the central
powers: to discuss the g-ncral subject
of peace from this government'* view
point, and to give any information Mr.
Lansing might desire on the attitude of
the German government.
Ambassador Hernstorff said, after a
ten-minute \isit with Secretary Lan
sing:
"We did not discuss peace terms in
any way. f have not received any for
mal terms, and the American govern
ment knows officially that no formal
terms have been proposed. All Ger
many has suggested Is that the bel
ligerents get together and talk. If
that proposal is accepted, definite
terms naturally will be discussed, but
till then It will not be proper to men
tion them. My visit to the secretary
was purely for general discussion."
The ambassador Indicated that the
actual place for the holding of a con
ference. and the question of whether
it should be by direct negotiation or
through Intermediaries, were questions
entirely dependent on the willingness
of the entente allies to discuss the sit
uation at all. He indicated also that
he had not discussed the American ac
tion in sending on the Teutonic notes
without comment, as that was purely
a matter for this country to decide for
itself.
|ti:< I.Alt i: lilt ITA I \ CANNOT
K.NOIIi: 0\ KIlTITtKS
Mt.vnn.v, December D>.?The Foreign
i mice announced before closing to-day
that it had not yet received the peace
note, and prominent officials disclaimed
knowledge of its contents beyond what
the newspapers had published.
The French victory at Verdun is ao
claimed by all the London papers as
the French reply to the German 15m
peror's speech to his troops in Al
sace and Chancellor von Itethmann
llollweg's claim of the invincibility of
lierman arms.
The considered opinions in the ltHt
fsli press, as reflected in the latest
editorials, are almost unanimous that
'Continued on Tenth fa go.)
CHRISTMAS 1IOI.IDAY PARKS
via SOUTHBflN RAII.WAV to all points
South, Dercmber 20 to 2f>. Inclusive. Ilnnl
limit .Tnnuiiry 10, 11117. Phono Mfullsun 272
for information.
Celebrated German
Psychologist Dead
?? ? ? < i v
?. r, ?
U. S. MAY EMPHASIZE ?
DEPORTATION PROTEST
Olliriuls ('nri'fully Walrhin^ Attitude
of (icrmany in
Mainr.
MODI l-'M '.ATM).\ NOT rXI.IKKI.V
UlijtM'liuns to I'olicy .Mario hy Tills
Country. Spain, llollanil, SwU/it
lan<l anil tin* Vatican, It Is lt<>
liovt'd, Mi'.v Hnvi; Kffect.
f Ii ? A**" J
W A >" if {N? IT' ?N, I ?i-? J >V --\Vhil?
?li- diplomat! <utitrov?T?v with iter-I
matiy uv?r Belgian deportations tciii- 1
porurily Is Mi a beyatice, oJIIvIjiIh are
w :it??}?111?? carefully for any indication
? if ji .?<>ft?-iiin>r of tIt?? 'l-rinin attitude
a- a i ? suit < f th- protests ,,f the Coiled
StatSpain, Holland, SwiIzerlati? I and
? he Vatican. I' would occasion no cur
prise l.ere if t h?? poll.-v were
quietly modified. ?!?????! t ?? the govern
ment's (I'M-laiatint! that the measure?
tak- fi were i:??????->-ai y and i' ac-onl
ai.ee with Ir>t? Tnatton;.I law.
It lias 1.???-?? indicated that this i;ov
er::!ii'Tit's rniirs" w ould he determined
by public opinion ?> it crystallizes, l?ut
there iir" intimations that should the
?>raoti" ? s complained of lie discontinued,
the American protest would not bo
pressed further. Officials think that if
a discontinuance wore decided upon It
would not l.e accompanied by a public
announcement or nny diplomatic assur
ances that might s* em to represent h
r'-csfion fron^ the stand Germany al
ready has openly taken.
Should the .<t;<te Department's In
formation during the ne\t few weeks
indicate. w r. that the deportations
at.- continuing unchecked, some fur
ther- step may be dechP'd upon to em
phasize the Amerirati protest. In some
quart* ;s it has been sumrested that the
departtne:,t' information regardlnts
conditions in Belgium, said to be at
variance with state.nctits in the (p-r
man reply to the American protest, he
made public, although such a step may
bad to a fruitl'nml perhaps em
barrassing. situation.
LINER CHICAGO ARRIVES
Nearly l-'orl v-KI|rlit llour* Overdue He
cnusr of I limiKr nl" (nurse, line In
I'rrsi-nrf of lirritiau Itniilrr.
IHv \s-oilatf-i I'lf." 1
NKW VOHK, December DS.?The
1"re:ich I.l no steamship Chicago, which
arrived liere to-day nearly forty-eight
hours overdue from Bordeaux, passed
about 150 miles from tli? point which
a w ireless message posted on board in
dicated was the position of the rjer
1 man commerce raider reported in the
Atlantic, according to passengers.
The bulletin was put tip on December
C. and, to the surprise of the pas
sengers. was torn down five minutes
later. The Chicago then detotired, and
this chance of course, together with
the heavy snowstorm yesterday, ac
counted for the delay. The bulletin
gave the raider's position as approxi
mately 1.500 miles west of Bordeaux,
and in the Liverpool-New York steani
ship route.
ASHFORD DIES OF WOUNDS
tV rll-kiiin^li VI Innta ItiiKiness Man
Pound I ?icnn.Hclnus In h'nxlilonnble
Itesblenee District.
' Hy A.csool.'itoil }
ATLANTA. OA., Doeembor Itf.? T. P.
Ashford. a well-known business man of
Atlanta, was found unconscious in the
'street at the intersection of Penchtree
and Fourteenth Streets, in a fashion
able residence district, late last night,
, and died early to-day from injuries.
The only mark on the body is a small
| abrasion on the head, and police an
'thorities have been unable to deter
mine how he met death.
C. II. Ashford. president of the Ash
ford Trunk and Bag Company, his
father, said to-day that he believed his
son had been murdered, and offered
i $."<>0 reward for the arrest and eon
' vietion of the slayer.
Ashford was thirty-seven years old.
JOSEPH LEITER INJURED
Rill! of Heed Strikes One of Ityes While
He In Hunting Ducks In
laiulniniin.
f By Associated I'ress |
NKW ORIiEAXS, December 16.?
Joseph T.eiter, of Chicago, formerly
i noted wheat operator, suffered a se
j rious injury to one of Ills eyes, when
It was struck hy the end of a reed,
while he was hunting ducks at his
J."0,000 hunting lodge near the mouth
of the Mississippi early this week, ac
cording to reports brought here to-day.
A specialist from this city hastened
to the lodge on a tug, and ho reported
Mr. l.eiter would not lose the sight of
his eye. Mr. l.eltet* cxpected to re
turn hero Sunday, en route to Chicago.
DIES SUDDENLY
WHILE LECTURING
Hugo Muensterberg, Professor
of Psychology at Harvard,
Expires in Classroom.
CAME FROM GERMANY IN 1892
After War Began, Was Regarded
as Spokesman for Teutonic
Allies in This Country.
I M;. S .11 pi.. i ]
? am I:i:11>?;i-;. mass.. ij?,\e,.~
''"st'? Mueiisterb.rg, di.stingwished psy-j
cholog ist, author and [irofi'Mior of psy
chology iillil director of the psychologi
cal lahoratoi y of Harvard University,
died suddenly j|, ;l classroom at Rad
cliffe Coli?-i*u to-day.
PioTes-or Muensterberg had begun a'
!'?< tui>- on e 1 <*iii?? iitai v psychology be
fore sixty young women. He had
talked for about half an hour, when'
he fct his hand I ..ward the desk
as though to steady himself.
!.? lor- any oti?* couhl reach him he
had fa.Jen and was nr.conscious when
I ?r. Harob! Hurt, an instructor, sprang
to In ?; side. Death came In twenty
minutes. a- a result, it was believed, of
? i ebral hemot rhai;e.
l'rof<-v;.<,r .Muensterberg had ap
peared to be in his usual health, and
on |.?st .Monday nijjht delivered an
address. on "The 1'sychology of Husi
<ami: to H A it v a it ii in isf rj
I'MI IIOUUJV I'llOPKSSUK
Professor Muensterberg was born in
tiaiuiir, < ;.-rn::?ny, in 1 S?;a. and a'fter
dlst11!i:u:shed work as an educator In
'Jet-many, came to Harvard in ISOl' as
( professor of psychology. In HMO lie
returned to Germany as Harvard ex
c iai ue prof>->sor at the University o*
Herliti I he next year lie organized
ami became the head of the Amerika
Institute of the German government, i
At the expiration of his term as ex
' ban f i' prof. ssor, in l'.'ll', he resumed
his uork at Harvard. He was made '
president of the American Psyohologl- j
cal Association in isos. At the time of
his death he was president of the IJos- |
ton German Association/
Mrs. Muensterberg was formerly Miss
S-lma ? ?ppler. of St ra.'sburg. Germany,
rhey were married in 1SST. He also
loaves a daughter.
I* 01 twenty years Professor Muenst?*r
herg had written extensively on philo
sophical, psychological and scientific
subject ??.
j..,W*U kno?-ii in educational circles
for many years. Professor Muenster
; berg became prominent publicly soon
after the great war began. A Ger
ni.m by birth, ho presented in addresses
and written articles the attitude of the
Teutonic allies as he understood it.
j Gradually he came to be regarded as
a spokesman in New Kngland for many
Germans and others who favored Ger
many. As a result he was brought
into controversies with other members
1,1 The Harvard faculty, who were out
spoken in the defense of the allies.
The funeral will be held at the fam
ily residence on Monday afternoon.
Rev. Adolph A. Merle, a close friend Of
Professor Muensterberg, will officiate
at the services, which will bo in the
German language. Professor George P.
Moore, of Harvard, will deliver a
eulogy.
Mr. Rerle said the body would be
cremated In a 'oordance with the wish
of Professor Muensterberg, and that
eventually the ashes would be shipped
to Germany.
ill* i. \st mi:ss4<;i: i oxtains
\ IMIIV til-' I'KACK AMI t.OOl) WII.T,
N*i:\V YORK. December 10. ? The last
public message of Professor Muenster
berg. who died suddenly to-day in his
classroom in Cambridge, Mass.. con
tains a vision of peace and good will,
and in it the writer indicated that he
believed such a peace was near. The
messace was sent to a weekly maga
zine here, and made public to-day, on
receipt of the news of bis death.
"After the war," the message says, "no
tracy of it will remain. Those who
hated most hotly will forget most
quickly. Men will look one another
in the face with astonishment; the spell
will be broken. They simply will not
believe that they could misjudge and
maltreat their friends so grossly. The
subtle power of our mind to forget
will become mankind's Messina. As
soon as peace is secured we shall keep
the peace, not only by the harsh
method of enforcing it. but by the
hundred-times better method of mak
ing it natural. And it can become
natural because all the scorn of to
day will fall off like the scab of a
healing wound. Unless all psychologi
cal signs deceive us, after this war
ends, peace will really be lasting?and
I feel sure the end of the war is near.
The world Christmas tree will be
glistening to-morrow: the fabric of its
candles already pervades the world."
TO STIMULATE RECRUITING
I'M" Inoperative Mince tivll W'nr Will
lie Invoked hy A\nr lle
purtnient.
f Fly Associated Press. 1
W ASH I X (! T O N, [ >ecember 16.??
! A law passed more than half a century
I Ago, and inoperative since the Civil
War, is to lie invoked by the War
Department to stimulate army re
' cruiting.
i The old statute, unearthed by Ad
i jutnnt-Geiieral McCain, provides for
payment of $2 to any civilian for each
man he persuades to enlist ill the army.
I General McCain suggested to Secretary
; Raker that Congress be asked to ap
i propria te not more than $.ri0,U00 to pay
! the bonuses. His plan is to solicit re
j emits mainly through retired enlisted
men, and lie believes the payment
jwoull incite them to active canvass
: of men likely to join the army.
KI.ORIIIA AND CI BA KXCTUSION
December Li. llound trip farea $17.60 to
.Tncl<*onvlllo and $52.65 to Havana via At
lanta; return llinll January 7. 1917. 80UTH
12KM RAILWAY. 1'hono Madison 272.?Adv.
BAKER TO ORDER
VIRGINIANS HOWIE
Promises Congressman Glass
That Soldiers Will Quit Bor
der Before Christmas.
ABOUT 3,000 NOW AT FRONT
Not Certain That Independent
Commands Will Be Allowed
to Come at This Time.
WASHINGTON. I 'ember 10.?Orders
to return home will he the Christinas
gift which the W.u Department will
put in ili^ stockings of the Virginia
troops now on the Mexican border. .
?Secretary of W.u- Baker this after
noon told Kept ?'-M'fitative ("al ter Glass
that orders for the return of the Vir
ginia iriilitlanu-n will he shortly Issued,
and the Old Dominion trooper*; will
either he on th?*ir native soil or on
their way hv the time Christmas Day
rolls around.
There has hardly been a day during
the past month that some member of
the \ irginia delegation it) Congress
has not held a conference with Sec
retary linker, in which he was urged
to order home tli>? Virginia troops.
Senator Swanson called at the Secre
tary's ofliee this morning, ami this af
ternoon Representative Glass saw the
Secretary*, and the triad news for the
Virginia troopers was reported to Mr.
Glass.
Senator Swanson, In his conference
with Secretary Baker to-day, referred
to the complaints being made that the
Virginians are discriminated against
by being kept on the border, lie said
it has been generally understood that
the troops would be sent home In tlie
order in which they were **ent to the
border. This understanding which
prevails amonit the militiamen, pointed
out Senator Swanson. was not adhered
to so far as the Virginia troops are
concerned, as an Iowa regiment, which
went to the border late, vag ordered
home ahead of tho Vrlglnlans.
ASK SAM IS CONSIDERATION
SHOWN OTHER TROOPS
The Senator made It plain to Secre
tary Maker that the Virginians want to
do their duty, but they also expect to
be treated with the same consideraion
which is shown other troops.
There are about 3,000 Virginia sol
diers at tlie front. They consist of the
First and Second Regiments, and a
number of independent commands, such
as the Richmond Blues and Richmond
Howitzers, the Norfolk T-iight Artillery
Blues and the Grimes Battery, of
Portsmouth. It Is not known whether
all the. Virginians will be included in
the orders which Secretary Baker said
will be issued within the next few days
for their return home. The First and
Second Regiments went to the border
about three weeks after the mobiliza
tion. The independent commands did
not go until some time In September,
it is possible that these will be left
behind. The Virginia members of Con
gress. however, are confident that all
the men in the First and Second Regi
ments will be included in the home
coming orders.
IV SERVICE SIX
MONTHS TO-MORROW
Virginia guardsmen now on duty in
Texas will complete their sixth month
of service to-morrow, having respond
ed to the call of the President on June
If'. The two regiments of infantry
have spent more than live of the six
months in Texas, while the other units,
the cavalry, artillery, Signal Corps and
engineers have been away from home
for two months or more.
The Virginia troops r> c located in
two sections of Texas, the Brow'ns
ville and San Antonio districts. The
'ufantry and cavalry are at the former
and the artillery. Signal Corps and en
gineers at the latter. There tire ap
proximately 3,000 guardsmen from this
State in the Fedefal service. The two
regiments of infantry were among the
first in the country to be started south.
Richmond is represented by about
S.'."i young men among the Virginia con
tingent. The Otiehmond Blues, con
verted into a squadron of cavalry, and
the Richmond Grays' Battalion, are at
Brownsville, while the Richmond How
itzers. or Battery A, and the. Richmond
Signal Corps, are at San Antonio. The
Ktigineer Corps has a score or more of
local boys in its ranks, while two of
i its ofllccrs are Richmondcrs. The field
artillery battalion staff is also com
posed of Richmonders, the battalion
commander being from this city.
MOIHI.l7.EI> AT HH'IIMIIM)
ON NINETEENTH OF JI NK
The Virginia militiamen were mobi
lized oil June 10. the call of the Presi
, dent having been issued on the
previous night. The Richmond organ
izations, with the exception of the
Blues, mobilized in their armories that
day. The Blues were not included i
| the initial call, but were changed from
infantry to cavalry and included on
Juno The Virginia units mobilized
; in Richmond, being quartered at Camp
Stuart, in the State Fair Grounds. The
first contingent went south on July t'..
both contingents of infantry entraining
lie same day. The field artillery moved
| south early in October, while the cav
airy, signal company and engineerti
? were on their way two weeks later.
The Virginia troops have earned cn
j viable records in Texas. The. infantry
i men have seen the hardest service,
J taking part with great credit in the
j early maneuvers in the heat of the
summer. The artillery has already
finished its target practice, having
made good records. The signal com
pany has been credited with being the
second best militia outfit of its branch
In the National Guard, its operators
receiving the highest praise from ofll
ccrs high up in the regular service.
MAV HE ON WAY HOME
ON CHRISTMAS 1UY
Just when the Virginia troops will
be started home is a matter of con
(Continued on Tenth Page.)
Indescribable Daring
Marias Worfy of A irm en
in Fighting at Verdun
French Capture German
Positions of Formidable
Nature in Short,
Sharp Battle.
I Krom a .-tail i*orre>:pom'?"it of the As
sociated i'resf I
IMM'I'KR IIIIX. VKHKIN FRONT.
December 1- < via Cliantilly).?Snow
and sleet f-11 tin "UShout last ?-vei'in-.
reii iorlng dltlieult tuther operations.
The French .staff's examination of the
German positions eaptured demon
sttales their foii.iUlut.lt! nature ami
their high s-t.'t.- of preparedness
against assault.
Thirty Gorman deserters, who came
in before the battle began. testify that
crown pr;noe'> army had knowledge
that an attack was about to b^ made.
;ind were cuiitldcut that they could hoi.I
the ground, which, during their nine
months of occupation, they had strong
ly organized. They assert that more
Germans were desirous of ilosertiiiK*
I.tit that tlie strictest precautions which
had been taken and the nature of the
ground prevented them from doing so.
The difficulties opposed to the French
advance may be realized from the alti
tude of the hills which the troops were
ordered t<> take and succeeded in cap
turing. Pepper Hill, which Is double
crested, is 1.122 feet high. Louvemont
is 1.13S feet high, ami another hill,
unnamed, behind, is 1,180 feet.
WORK OK AVI VTOItS OP
gukat aio i.v advance
The work of the French aviators,
like that of the infantrymen and artil- j
leiymeti. was carried out everywhere
with almost indescribable daring.
Dozens of squadrillas of airmen tlitted
about, observing and correcting the
artillery tire, and accompanying the in
fantry formations in their advance,
after which they flew rapidly back to
headquarters with detailed reports,
thus keeping the commander-in-chief in
closest touch with events.
The clearness of the atmosphere as
sisted the inen greatly, while the at
tempts of the Oermo" artillery lire to
bring them down were generally
abortive, owing to the disorder a*mong
| the gunners brought about by the
i quickness of the French advances.
During the entire day not r French
airman vv\\n killed. On the other hand,
it is reported that they destroyed a
German observation balloon, which
probably accounts for a terrible burst
of flame just before noon facing Douau
inont. That fort was the objective of
tlie German heavy guns for hours, but
the. projectiles did only slight damage.
kvkrv on.ii'.CTivr: point
IH1TA1.MJ1) WITH ACCI RACV
I From a Staff Correspondent of the
Assoc..lien l'ress. J
i'EPPK R 1IILL,. VKRDL'N FRONT,
December 16 (via Chantllly, December
1 ?>.?A short, sharp haltlo brought to
the French to-day their third smashing
victory within a period of two months
In the vicinity of Verdun. Kvery ob
jective point of the French com
manders was obtained with chrotio
metric accuracy.
Although the Germans offered a des
perate defense, the attack was so
powerful there was no withstanding it.
with the result that the Germans were
pushed back along the line by the
I Fretiche, who only ceased on orders
when the objectives had been gained.
Thousands of Gorman prisoners
poured into the French lines during
the day, including "00 oflicers, and large
groups are still arriving. The total
count already is "..*<00. (The latest
French oflicial statement says the num
ber of prisoners exceeds !'."(u.)
One division alone captured more
than 1.200 Germans within an hour.
More than eighty large and small Ger
' nuni cannon were captured or de
1 stroyod. and many others are known
to be buried.
The villages of Vachcrauville. Louve
moiit and Hesonvatix and llardaumont
wood now are in French hands.
The front over which the offensive
was executed was ten kilometers lon?\
When the lighting ceased, owing to
darkness, the French advance had ex
tended an average of three kilometers
along the whole front, at various points
rushing further out and threatening
the German batteries, whose retreat
was hindered by the had condition of
the ground.
\\ A TCI IK* K.VUAfiRMHXT
Kit (Ml DOMINATING IIKIGHT
The battle began at 10 o'clock in the
morning, with the Ictt llank of the
French opposite Vaehorativille. and the
right flank on Fort Vaux. The corre
spondent of the Associated I'ross
watched the engagement from a domi
nating height.
As the church clock struck the hour
every French gun opened a storm of
steel, placing every shot immediately
behind the German front-line. Mean
while the French infantry made one
of its characteristic dashes and reached
the village of Vaclterauville, where,
utilizing the new method of infantry
attack, they drove the Germans from
i house to house, until the village was
I entirely in their hinds.
Advancing beyond the village, the
French attacked a German trench
known as "Rethmann's Howl." which
; was pierced after a hard flght. and its
| occupants made prisoners. Then, up
| the slopes of I'epper Mill the intantry
| men could be seen making methodical
progress until at exactly an hour from
' the start, the twin crests of this
j height had been swept clear of tier
j mans, and the rockets announced the
French wre established.
In the meantime the Germans on the
(Continued on Second' rage.)
Three tralna dally via Southorn Hallway.
? Adv.
Rising I emperatures
Predicted for To-day
WASHINGTON. Deeemlier 1*1.?
I'uld nrnthrr Iiiin rxteudeil iltriuicli
iiiit Hit* A Untitle *?tjit?"Si, and the lino
of frcc/.lnjj on *?nlnriluy morning
ri'iH'liril t eutrnl l-'loridii. nmllirr
reports nIiuw, In Ihr liulf Suite*.
ctm?lderiil>l y vinriiier nrallirr pre
vail*. 'l>mprr?liircH will rise Sun
tin v in the \ 1111 ii t if State*. lull w ill
change luit little rNcnlicrr enit i>f
the .11 lNkhiil|i|il Klver.
VILLA SSKS CONFERENCE
WITH GENERAL SCOTE
Secoml .Mysterious Knvoy From .Mov
ie an Ham! it Arrives at
K1 Paso.
COMPLKTK CHAX(il-; <)!?' HKAKT
Wants to Discuss With .American
Army Ofliccr Question of Policing:
Uortler ami Protection of Live*
ami Property of Americans.
PASO, 'I'R.VAS, December 1 >5.
\ ilia has asked for a conference with
.Major-General Hugh Scott relative to
policing the border and the protection
of the lives anil property of Americans
ami other foreigners, according to the
message of a second envoy from the
Imndit, who, concealing' his Identity,
arrived here to-day.
The .second mysterious envoy from
the bandit conferred with General Hell
and Stale Department special agents.
The courier quoted Villa as saying that
General Scott, unhampered, could have
settled the Mexican situation long ago
and could have prevented bloodshed and
revolution.
\ ilia and General Scott long have
been friends. They had several con
. ferences in 121 Paso before Villa lost the
friendship of the United States through
j his raids on Columbus and elsewhere.
Villa pent word that he had no ani
mosity towards any Americans except
"Dollar diplomats, who are truckling
and kowtowing to Carranza."
According to the envoy. Villa Is su
preme in the States of Chihuahua,
j Coaliuila and Durango, and Is ap
proaching supremacy in Sonora with
the complete overthrow of Carranza at
hand.
Villa's latest alleged proposals,
through the two envoys who have ap
peared h?re with branches in their
' hands, i- considered a con.; '., ic ch.in?c
of heart front the lurid manifesto which
was ostensibly issued by the bandit
chieftain while he occupied Chihuahua
City, and which reached El Paso a
. week ago to-night. The messages borne
i by the envoys are taken to mean that
? Villa has no intention of attacking
Pershing, and also seeks to disavow
j any complicity in the raids upon Co
| lumhus ami Santa Ysabel.
| MI CH CO.VFKHKXCK Will I.I)
I.MIM.Y ItKl'Ot; MTIO.Y
I Military men here have received an
unofttcial communication from Wash
ington that Ceueral Scott is willing to
'? confer with Villa, but officials on the
border arc inclined to minimize that
j possibility, in view of the fact that
j such a conference would imply recog
1 nit ion of the bandit.
j Villa's alleged attitude, as outlined
by his pacific envoys, docs not har
monize with the recent murders of
I Visiter, Gray and Sinmann.
It is reported that Villa has de
stroyed enough railroad track in the
I State of Chihuahua to prevent any
j Carranza troops from moving, and that
I the chieftain has enough men to nt
I tack Torreon and Chihuahua City si
multaneously. The cutting of the
Mexico-Northwestern Railroad and all
telegraph communication between
j .laure/. and Chihuahua City is laid to
some Carranza official*! who arc known
I lo be operating north of Chihuahua,
j Others declare that the t ?/.una factions
had cut the communications. A feeling
| of uneasiness is apparent, the majority
; believing that Villa is to attack the
j city.
j General < >bregon doclare* that the
[defenses of t'hthuahua City are the
\ weakest in the State of Chihuahua,
j owing to the Inner strife between the
i Carranza otlicials and the dissat isfac
; tion among the men. The cutting of
'communications also leaves the fate of
; Torreon in doubt, as It Is known here
j that Villa was planning to attack that
: po tit immediately. However, a courier
i to .Tuarez reports thai General Mucotte,
in charse of the garrison at Torreon.
commands a heavy force. which is loyal
lo hint been use lie is plentifully sup
plied with money.
The fact that General Trevlno is to
he executed for treason is not doubted
in Juarez. It is officially admitted that
General Trevlno is under arrest, and
en route for court-martial. The charges
against him are cowardice and high
treason for permitting Villa to take
Chihuahua City.
OI'rilH, II-' ACTtAI.I.Y MUM-:,
OXI.\ SAIIDOMC JUST
WASHINGTON. December III. Press
reports of Villa's "peace offer" said to
have been brought by his envoy to K1
I aso, were received with amusement
at the War and State Departments to
day. No oiliclal communication on the
subject has'been received at the War
Department front General Bell, nor has
any word come from State Department
agent? on the border.
It was Indicated In ofTlcial circles that
Villa may expect nothing but oppo* ]
sition from the present administration. |
Which of Combatants As
sumed Offensive Not Spe
cified by Berlin.
FOUR FRENCH DIVISIONS
JOIN IN FRIDAY'S DRIVE
Teutonic Armies Continue to
Gain Ground in Buzeu River
Region of Roumania.
mtlTISII advance on* tigkis
Ke vol lit imiary Outbreaks in Portu
gal. Accompanied '?.v Mutiny
of Troops, Quelled.
fBv As<odat'(l Pr?'f 1
Infantry fighting wis resumed to-day
uri lli.> past blink of th* Mouse, in the
Verdun s^olop. Wh!'%h of th^ rotnbot
ants assumed th<^ offensive is not specl
fl.ul by Hi'- fii-rnmn War Office state
ment that tells of the renewal of th?
fighting.
1 Miring' th?* previous night the Ger
man troops hail undertaken no counter
attacks'to regain the ground they lost
as the r?-stilt of the stroke inflicted
by th?* French on Friday. Details
concerning1 'he French drive indicate
the capture of 9.0i>0 Germans and about
eighty guns. Four French divisions
participated in the attack, and the
French War Office intimates that they
were opposed by live Oerniftn divisions.
The Teutonic armies In Roumania
continue to gain ground. A statement
by the German War Office that the
Uu/.eu Kiver sector has been forced
may mean that the Teutonic troops
actually have crossed the river, along
the line of which it had been expected
the Roumanians would make their next
stand.
After nn Intense artillery duel In the
vicinity of Ypres and Wytschaete. Ger
man troops delivered an assault south
east of Zillebeke, penetrating the
second British line.
A further advance of the British
army on the Tigris front. In Meso
potamia. to within three-quarters of a
mile of that river opposite Kut-el
Amara, Is recorded.
Revolutionary outbreaks In Portugal,
accompanied by mutiny of some troops,
? have been quelled.
It Is announced that the British gov
ernment has decided to take controJ
! of the Irish railways, and that the
' threatened strike on those lines haa
i been averted.
AI STltO-tiKltMAX FORCE
ItGITLSED 11V RUSSIANS
rBy Associated Presn.l
l'ETROORAD, December 16 (via Lon
don).?Kusslan troops have repulsed
an Austro-Ocrman force which was at
terrpt'n.n: *o advance in the Oltuz Val
on the Moldavian front of Rou
mania. tho Wur Office announced to
<lay.
A successful bombardment of the Bul
garian Black Sea coast by Russian
warships also Is reported. The state
ment reads:
"Roumanian front: On the Moldavian
frontier, the enemy's advance in tho
oituz Valley was repulsed.
"With a view to the destruction of
mills supplying the Bulgarian army
with flour, our vessels successfully
bombarded the port of Kaltchlk (Bai
chik. on ilic Bulgarian Black Sea
coast), on Wednesday. We were bom
barded by shore batteries and attacked
by seaplanes and a submarine without
result for the enemy."
nillTISII (JIH KllJillKXT TO
TAKK OVKIt I It 1 Mil HAI1.WAVS
LONDON*. December 1 fi.?The govern
ment has decided to take over tho
Irish railways, according to an an
nouncement to-day by James Henry
Thomas, l.abor member of Parliament
for Derby, and assistant general secre
tary of the Amalgamated Society oC
Railway Servants.
It is hoped, it was expl'.lncd, thua
to avert a threatened strike.
\o ((ivvi'KiiAmrK
t)i:i.ivi:itr.i> bv r;i:itMA.\s
I By Associated Press. 1
I 'A I! IS, December D>.?Although thero
has been a lively bombardment along1
the entire front north of Verdun, from
the Mouse to tho Woevre, over which
the French swept in their advance oC
yesterday, no counterattack was de
livered by the Germans during tins
night, says to-day's War Office state
ment.
Four French divisions engaged In
yesterday's attack took prisoner sol
diers belonging to every regiment of
live German divisions, tho statement
adds.
Till TONS CONTIM'K
\I1\ A Ml-: IN BO I M V MA
I H> Associated Press-1
r.KRlilN", December D5 (via Sayvllle).
The Teutonic forces in Uoumania aro
.continuing their advance all along tho
front, it is announced in to-day's War
Office statement. Two thousand inoro
prisoners have been brought In. Ill
Dobrudja the Russians have retired.
i.imen \ i. KAfTiox photkst*
At.VINST It I-: 14 It.STAU At TIOV
( By Associated Prep* !
P.F.RLIX, December !.*? (via London,
December 1K>.? The National Liberal
faction in tho Reichstag, which at
tempted unsuccessfully to debate tho
Chancellor's peace overtures, has ad
dressed a communication to him, pro
testing against what it terms "com
plete elimination of the people as rep
resented by the Reichstag in deciding
both Polish Independence and peace
matters." The communication com
plains that the Reichstag was only In
formed of th<- >: ? ps taken In both ca??*
after they had been completed acts, '
! without giving the people's represenla
] tlves an opportunity either to consult*
I co-operate or protest.
[ The protestants concludo that G*r
