Gfi jJkJSm.nt rv. r 1 m
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Increasing cloudiness and slightly
warmer to-day; snow at night.
Highest temperature yesterday, as; lowest, 15.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reporta on page 1 1.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. Np. 108.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, DECEMBER. 17, 1916. Copyright, 1916, bv the Bun Printing and PubUthtng Attociatlon,
60 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
inn p. wmir 1
BIG 4' CHIEFS
i
AND R.R. HEADS
DEVISE TRUGE
Settlement of Eight Hour
Controversy Possible
Within Two Weeks.
CONFEREES ARRIVING
AT TENTATIVE TERMS
Withdrawal of Case Now
Before U. S. Supreme Court
Is Main Point.
BEPEAL OF ADAMSON
LAW ALSO OBJECTIVE
Congress May Be Asked to
Annul Act Forced by
the President.
Fourfold are the means through which
ta big four brotherhoods and the rail
read operators are striving to adjust
tbclr differences so that working condi
tions acceptable to both may be deter
mined. Progress toward a compromise
already has been made; as W. G. Lee,
president of the Brotherhood of Railway
Trainman, disclosed In Evansvlllc, Ind.,
ea Friday. The steps may culminate In
a settlement within the next two weeks.
It was learned yesterday.
Here are the methods through which
Ike factions hope to attain their common
ftject:
1. Withdrawal of the case now be
fore the, United, states Supremo Court
to test the constitutionality of the
Adamson eight hour law.
I. Itcpeal by Congress of this meas
ure, which was forced through by di
rect command of President Wilson.
i. Elimination of the Federal Hoard
f Mediation and Conciliation In rail
lead controversies.
4. Establishment of a non-partisan
rallrosd board, composed equally of
brotherhood representatives and op
erators for the adjudication of all
ilfflcultles In wages, schedules and
hours.
Conferences Here This Week.
Conferences between the brotherhood
seta's and several members of the Na
tional Conference Committee of .Man
agers wilt be held, probably In New York,
this week. The fate of the entire nego
tiations hangs on there forthcoming
meetings. No certainty is felt by cither
side that n, settlement will be effected.
That the brotherhood men are optimistic
U made manifest by tho statement of V.
0. Lee, who eald:
"We hope to work It out. We know
that If we don't work It out for ourselves
the employee and the employers
somebody Is going to work It out for us
anil It will not bo acceplablo to either
fide."
Railroad managers are reticent on the
nibject. but It to evident they arc keenly
lmnt on some solution that will be
leached by experts. Neither side lias
any strong faith that the Supreme Court
decUlon or n superseding act of Congress
111 produce harmonious cooperation be
tween the employees and tho operators.
llUeord Over Right Hoar nlll.
It has been appreciated by both sides
that there has been Increasing discord
ever Mince the enactment of the Adam
son law. Hoth side contend tho meas
ure Is defective In that It does not define
tne methods of Its operation. There Is
unanimity of opinion too mat tne de
cision of the Supreme Court will not
cure this defect.
It wax these definite beliefs that led to
the conference betwecen the railroad men
asd the national committee. The brother
hoods have no wlit to icmain In pro
lursed conflict with tho employers and
the managers appreciate their corning
capacity Is reduced by disaffection
among the trainmen.
Whatever the court dcelBlon It would
five a tremendous advantage to tho vic
torious side. With the bltteniesw that
this would engender each element ex
pects reprisals would be begun.
Were tho railroads to win, for In
alancc. the decision would not prevent
the brotherhoods from Immediate decla
ration of a strike. Were the brother
hoods to gain the verdict they believe
th. operators would apply methods to
restrict so far as possible whatever ad
vantages would accrue with tho decision.
Meek Friendly Solution.
Therefore It was the consensus of
opinion at tho conference that already
have been held that neither Congress nor
courts can adjust matter so amicably
and with such mutual prottt as the con
tenders thomeelves on ft friendly basis.
Hr Lee of the trainmen has gono on
record several times as dissatisfied with
the Adamson law. It Is understood the
brotherhoods offered to glre up the law
If the railroads would guarantee to
withdraw court action and grant an
eight hour day. From what has been
larncd the roads are willing to concede
the eight hour day If a compromise on
wages is effected thereby.
Roth sides are doubtful whether the
consent of President Wilson or Congress
ran be gained to a repeal of the law.
The President and hit Democratic Con
gress on the stump In the last campaign
argued long and ardently on the Justice'
and equity, of the measure. To get their
content to' what amounts practically to
repudiation l contemplated as a diffi
cult proceeding. However, mutual rep
resentations to Con green of a better ad
Juitment will bring about this result, It
I hoped. Automatically the repeal of
w law would end Ut teat ease.
Coagress Mar At First.
The expectation obtains on both tides
"t the railroad controversy that the
present Congress may be Induced to act
hi advance of the decision of the 8u
preme Court, which. Is ax pact ed about
the mldde of January.
The factions have looked beyond the
'peal and he withdrawal of the suit
Conflmtatf m Ten (A fmg.
NO OLD ENGINE HOME
FOR ERIE'S VETERANS
Itiiilroml Hiring1 Out Locomo
tives to Mako Tower
for riant.
The trio Itallrond hag discovered a use
Tor Its locomotive. Residents of Arling
ton, N. J., rushing to cntch their trains
yesterday nt the station of the Green
wood La(0 division of the Eric, were
halted by the spocliirlo of two decrepit
engines belching smoke and cinder, but
never turning a wheel. Firemen stoked
away In desperation, as If the undent
locomotives were making elxty mile's an
hour Instead of standing stock still.
Explanation of the strange an
tics of the old locomotives, was ob
tained when It was learned that from
tho boiler of each of tho engines thcro
was a pipe leading -fo the steam main of
tho Arlington Company's plant,- only a
few rods awy. Tho Arlington Company.
which tn m" iiitiaMtnft .I. n.. n .
... ..u.,u(uiaal j yj xyi. i UIU
company; and Is engaged In tho ninnufac
u, j ui n suuaiunco rrscmnung celluloid,
inm short of power recently. One of tho
officials suggested renting Krlo locomo
lives. Tho proposal was put up to tho
Krlo with the result that tho two engine
wcro taken down to tlio Arlington Com
pany's plant and put to work.
HEALTH BOARD ACTS
TO CURB GAR JAMS
Order "Limits Passengers to
One nnrl One-half Times
Seating Capacity.
In an endeavor to remedy the over
crowding on all tho transit lines, subway,
elevated and surface, tho Health Depart-
( mcnt yesterday adopted an order provld
, Ing that no car slinlt bo permitted to
carry moro than one and one-half times
Its seating capacity. The order, how
ever, contains a qualifying clause which
exempts lines, on which tho Public Ser
vlco Commission has llxed the maximum
number. of cars to bo operated.
if tho company can show It Is giving
lls'maxlmum service, It can continue to
crowd as many passengers Into u car ns
can be Jammed In.
Haven Enietson, Health Commissioner,
announced the adoption of tho order fol
lowing a v.lslt yesterday to Mayor Mltchel
at City Hall.' When the Mayor was
asked nbout the new rule, he said :
"It must be distinctly understood that
, this order will not applv. should the Pub
lic Service Commission decide that a spec-
Ifled lino Is operating the maximum
; number of cars. In other words, it would
i be out of the question for tho Health De
ipartment to attempt to force u railway
company to put on more cars If experts
of the Public Service Commission have
decided that the company lo already run
' nlng a maximum number."
Thousands of persons In Brooklyn yen
1 terday experienced the disadvantages of
the new rule.
A Flatbush avenue car broke lift axle
I near the Prospect Park Plaza, forcing
I Its pasRen-jers and those In cars behind
to walk. They tramped through the
I snow to Flatbush nnd Seventh avenues
1 nnd there waited for a Seventh avenue
trolley car to take them down town.
Hut all these cars were operating un
der the new rule and tho conductors le-
fused to break It. An equally nngrypro-
cefslon came nloiifi Seventh avenue,
forced to walk becnimo of the overload
ing prohibition. So the Ilrooklynltes had
, to continue their tramp to tho Atlantic
avenue suuwny btation.
The Public Sorvleo Commission yester
day received a petition sls-ncd by tho
teachers of Public School 188, who use
the Sqfrond and Third avenue elevated
lines. The teachers complain of tho poor
service nnd the manner In which passen
gers are Jammed Into the enrs during
lush hours. Tho petition bears tho names
' of 397 persons, who eay they "havo be
I como disgusted with conditions."
WHEAT IN SENSATIONAL BISE.
Up m'.'j Cents a Ha. After Ilrop of
in 14 Cents Dny llefnre.
Cmc.vno, Pec. 10. Tho wheat market
hero somersaulted on a gigantic scale
to-day. An upward Jump of 10 4 ccnls
a bushel came as u violent contrast to a
setback of 13 i cents In tho trading of
tho day before.
Hlght from the outset tho fact was
apparent that sentiment In tho pit had
undergone a complete reversal from the
day befoio Wild rushes to buy started
the Instant the opening gong struck and
were wholly unchecked until the rise had
reached tho maximum of the day, 104
cents, seemingly the result of tho Rus
sian Duma's i ejection of the Gorman
pence proposal and the decision of the
White JJouse that the United States
would forward tho Teutonic peace pro
posnl without comment.
Final quotations were greatly unset
tled. May. tho leading option, finishing
at 162. to 163, tho latter an advance
of 9 cents net.
"DRY" Bai HAS ONEMAJORITY.
Mnrtlne Objects lo Agreement for
Vole In Nenalr,
Washington, Dec. 16. Tho Senate by
a hare majority of one took up the Shcp
pard "dry" bill for the District of
Columbia this nf tcrnoon. Friends of tho
bill were surprised and chagrined by the
narrow margin. Efforts to obtain an
axreemcnt for a vote Monday were de
feated by nn objection from Senator
Martlno of New Jersey.
Senator Marline mado an Impassioned
anneal for a "wet" capital, saying tho
saloon should not bo abolished until
some other form of club for tho poor
man could bo established. Maine, he
said, with a population of less than
3,000,000, has more drunkenness than
the whole of Italy, with a population of
30,000,000 and no prohibition laws.
CAR STRIKE TO CONTINUE,
Vote Taken by tho Members of
Seven Unions.
Members of the seven local unions af
filiated with the Amalgamated Associa
tion of Street and Electric iUllway Em
ployes voted yesterday to continue tho
strike against the traction companies.
Only Itfty-elght votes were cast In fa
vor of returning to work.
HAVANA KAC'HBII IN M HOUR
via AllaaHo Coast line R.R. UN H'way.-sv.
GEM THIEVES
STIR 5TH AVE.
r
Shopping Crowd 'Witness
Fights foivPossession
of Jewels.
91,600 KING WAS STOLEN
Two Men Frovido Few Min
utes of Thrills in Two
Stores.
Christmas shoppers In two crowded
I'lfth avenue Jewelry stores lost their
breath yesterday nf tcrnoon while wit
nessing tho theft, pr attempted theft, of
diamond rings and btacclcts by two
young men who posed us customers.
Thcro wcro rough and ttimblo fights In
each place and thrills enough for a movie
melodrama. Ono of tho robber escaped
with a $l,r00 ring from tho store of
Udall & Hallou, 174 Fifth avenue, by pre
tending ho was going to call a policeman.
His alleged pal was arrested. Tho other
store was that of William Itclman, at No.
328.
The prisoner, locked up at Police
Headquarters last night, eald ho was
Harry Osmondc, S3 years old, a pales
man, of 217 Grandy street, Detroit.
At 4 :30 1. M. n tall mull and a short
man, both well dicsscd, appeared In the
Itelman store, which Is near Thirty-third
street. The short man told Daniel ii.
Engelson, a clerk, that he wanted lo look
at bracelets set with diamonds. Engelson
laid on the counter several gold bands.
"The stones ore too small," tho cus
tomer objected. "Let's see some rings
something extra good, with big dia
monds." The Kind He Wnated.
The clerk got three rings from a show
window und set them on tho showoan-.
The short stranger lingered them, held
them up lo tho light and pushed them
back that is, ho pushed two of them
back and remarked :
"That's tho kind of stono I wnnt.
Now lixven't you a bracelet with dia
monds us largo as these'."'
Hut Eugclron had Ills rye on that
third ring. Tne customer bad his left
arm resting on tho showcase und tl.c
ring was under the arm.
"Yes. we have such bracelets but
how about that rlns'."' said the clerk.
And with that he pushed the customer's
arm and seised the ring It concealed.
Ulff ! The bracelet buyer poked his right
list against Engelsun's Jaw, other clerks
came running, bona fldo shoppers gasped
and shouted, und altogethcr's Itelman's
store never saw surh commotion bffoie.
Meanwhile the tall young man had
been standing at nn opposite counter try
ing on diamond rings which Harry
Horowitz, a clerk, was showing" him.
When tho inughhouse began he hud threu
lings on one linger nnd was appraising
them with the nlr of n ihap who knew
all about precious stones. As If startled
by the lighting and tho upioar hu began
cdslng towaid the street door.
Nrlsr the Tnll Mini.
"Hold on," called Horowitz. "Just
take off those rings first." Horowitz
raced around the tounter, clutched the
' tall man and pulled the three rings
from hlu linger. The tall man stormed
l at him. It was nn Insult, an outrage '.
What did they mean?
"M".!. Iilt.i lt...t L'ni.nUnii tmm
side of the store. "He's probably In
cahoots with tho 11. tie cuss that slugged
me. Somebody get a policeman."
'.'A policeman, get u policeman," chor
used tho other clerks and customers.
"Yes. Mr; there oui;ht to Ipo u police
man here," yelled tho i-hort man. "Walt,
I'll go get one." With that he shot out
Into the avenue. Everybody was too ex
cited to rcullze that It might bo well to
keep him.
'iho hhort man disappeared, but pres
ently a patrolman in uniform, called by
homebody else, did enter Itelman's. Tho
tall man was blazing with Indignation
and all ron ted citizenship. Ho wanted to
know what tho clerk meant by treating
him as If he could bo a thief. There be
ing no evidence ugalnst him, no com
plaint was made.
Half un hour later Detectives Mc
Kenna and Cassjssa, scouting for pick
pockets, happened along. They drank
in the story at Itelman's and hurried out
to warn other Jewellers. At 5:30 o'clock
they ran Into u crowd In front of Udall
Ilallou'a store, which Is near Forty
seventh street, nnd were told there was a
tight and a robbery going rui inside.
line
I'rlamirr,
The detectives wedged Into tho store
and ran against lloswell D, IMall, whoso
fingers wero entwined with another
man's coat collar.
"Two mn. one short, tho other
tall " began Mr. Udall.
"Uh-huh," commented Cassassa. "We've
heard of 'em before. (!o on."
Well, the tall man and the short ono
had como Into tho store ami tho short
ono had got Mr. Udall to show him dia
mond rings "pretty good stuff with
largo stones" was what ho wanted to see.
The Jewellep produced a cuso containing
twenty-four rings. Tho case had u
spring urrungement whereby the rings
could bo released one ut u time by the
pressuro of buttons.
"There's ono that makes a hit with
me," tho short man said, pointing to a
ring set with ' diamond weighing
knrats and two emeralds, vulucd at
$4,500, Mr. Udall pressed a button and
allowed the man to exiunlno tho ring.
The tall man nil this time had been
sauntering along beslda the show cases
as If waiting for something to strike his
fancy. Finally, he said to Mr. Udall.
"There's a rlng'thnt I like. Will you let
mo look nt It, pleuse?" The Jeweller,
keeping one hand on the tray that he
had got out for tho short man, bent
down to get his other hand Into the
show case. Just as he did so tho short
man with the $4,500 ring In his posses
sion ran out of the store. Mr. Udall In
stantly waded Into the tall stranger,
punched him, collared him and was ex
pressing his opinion of him when the de
tectives appeared.
Clerk Horowltx of the Relniun store
went to Police Headquarters last night
and Identified tho prisoner as tho chap
who had put three tings on one finger
In hln store.
"I don't know that short man who
got away with the ring." he told tho
police. "Ills nets are Incomprehensible
to me."
Osmonde Is charged with grand lar
ceny on the romplotntof Mr. Udall.
NI'KNIt TIIK IIOMItAYH
at White Sulphur eprlnii, West Virginia.
Ailv.
FIGHT ON MAIL
TUBES BITTER
Country Districts Line Up
Against Cities on
Deliveries.
SERIOUS IN NEW YORK
Traffic Conditions Make Oper
ation of -i-50 Motor Trucks
a Great Hnznrd.
Washington, Dec. 16. A stirring
fight, turning largely upon tho point
whether tlm United States Clovcrnment
Is to contribute to the tralllc congestion
In New York city, is Inevitable when tho
Houso Post Oltlcc Commllteo bill reduc
ing tho pneumatic tuba service In New
York city nnd authorizing tho Poslmas-ter-Clcncrnl
to discontinue it altogether
after six months comes up In Conguss.
Tho Postmaster-Ucneral has recom
mended that pneumatic scrvlco bo dis
continued In all other cities where It
has ben Installed, and tho ultimate dis
continuance of the New York system la
regarded as certain unless Congress In
tervenes. The contention of Mr. Burleson that
tho malls can be handled with greater
celerity by automobile Is disputed by
commercial organizations and Postmas
ter Morgan. Tho Pest Olllco Department
apparently Is actuated by ideas of econ
omy without regard to tho effect that
additions of motor trucks will have on
the congested tralllc of Manhattan.
Clllra Versos Country.
The question has become much
broader than a mere dispute over the
ndvantago of pneumatic tube service.
The delegations from the East and the
largo cities arc for the most part against
the abolition ef the tubes. The dele
gations from the South nnd the country
districts apparently arc for It. The sit
uation has developed Into u contest be
tween those who uro acnlnst tho big
cities, particularly the Eastern cities
nnd those who aro for them. The mem
bers of the Houso committee who otel
to abolish the tubes wero Moon (Ten
nessee), Cox (Indiana), lllack (Texas).
Rlackmon (Alabama). Ituse (Ken
tucky). Ayrcs (Kansas), Itnndall (Cali
fornia ). Hrltt (North Carolina), and
Holland (Virginia).
Tho disastrous effects of tho abandon
ment of the tube service wero set forth
by Postmaster Morgan, who said tho
New York ofllco would be obliged to have
three times the present numUr of motor
mail trucks, or 450. Inspector Thomas
Myers, head of tho New York Irallli
squad, told the committee that in roint
of danger to pedestrians n mall truck
compHnrted the tralllc situation ni much
as ten commercial trucks.
"Tralllc has Increased to such an ex
tent," he said. "In tho last few years
that we have lain awake nights thinking
nbout It. I want to ny now we are to
the last ounco In tho matter of regula
tion." "One human life Is crushed out In
New York every fourteen hours of the
365 days," the Inspector continued.
"Some person h maimed or Injured
every twenty-three minutes."
Speed l.nns Are Imiored.
Inspector Myers told tho committee
also that the drivers of tho mall trucks
Ignore the spied laws and tralllc regula
tions, rushing In the wrong direction up
the on" way street. "Commercial trucks,"
he said, "arc governed by a signal from
the tiaillc men nnd they nre ready to
obey because they know they will be
summoned If they don't. Hut not tho
mall truck driver."
The committee was told that In 1015
102 children under C years of ago and
170 between 6 and l'i were Killed In New
York by automobiles. This did not scein
to affect their decision.
Apart from tho disadvantages to busi
ness Institutions Postmaster Moigan ac
centuated the dltlleultlcs motor trucks
nlll encounter In winter.
"Tho tube rervlce Is not affected by
storms." he said. "The motor service be
comes badly nlpvlcd during n sleet or
Miowstorm, nnd In tho event of the dis
continuance of the pneumatic tubes there
would bo no adequate mbstltute service
Available."
Contention nf Commission. I
The commission of postal experts upon '
whoio report tho Postmnster-ileneral's
l (-commendation was based, admitted the
ndvantago the tubes possessed in being '
free from surface traffic congestion.
Some of the reasons they alleged for rec
ommending their nbolltlon wcro tho fact
that owing to their limited capacity of
containers, not nil clnssen of mall could
bo carried, tho necessity of relaying sta
tions nnd general Inllexlblllty of the ser
vice. On this point tho report said :
"For example, If 1,000 pounds of letter
mall Is received on ono train for the
main office, n sufficient number of clerks
may bo assigned to Its distribution to pre
pare It quickly for dispatch by pneumatic
lubes, hut the capacity of tho tube Is In
flexible and fifty minutes will elapse be
foro the container with tho Inst portion
of such quantity of mall la despatched.
"If tho distance to bo traversed l one
mllo an automobile truck travelling nt
the rate of twelve miles an hour will
carry all this mall and tho newspapers
and parcels ns well and reacli tho same
destination before more than one-tenth
of the attenuated column of tube con
tainers could get under way."
There Is nothing, however. In the find
ings of tho commission ns appears In
tho icport of tho Postmaster-General
which would Indicate thut tho committee
gave much consideration to the effect of
adding 300 fast motor trucks to tho nl
rcudy congested street tralllc of New
York and of the resultant delays.
The company owning the tubes In New
York Insists the estimate of fifty min
utes to transmit 1,000 pounds of mall Is
absolutely unwarranted, and that the
actual time Is less, than twenty minuter).
It has taken exception to many state
ments In tho report of the commission,
alleging thorn to be untrue und based
on prejudice.
Buffalo BUI Very III.
Dknvkr, Dec. 16. Col, William F.
Cody (lluffalo Bill) M seriously 111 at tho
homo of his Mstcr, Mr. May Cody
Det-ker, 2932 Ijifayetto street, according
to his physician, Dr. J, II. Kastol, Cody
spent it bad night last night and it Is
understood that members of his family
havo besn summoned from his ranch at
Cody, Wyo
RKAriOARII FI.A. l.tMITKI), fliio !. M.
Com. Jim. 3 or. 1'iilni Hestli, ti;30 a, ,v
Mleml 9:00 a. M.. M ninro. 3 lira, qulelir.t
In llrlleslr and HI, PrterstiuiR, fmi, m...
board Air Uno lly lilt Udway, Adt,
SAW BELGIANS
DRIVEN IN HERD
Eyewitness Tells of Nic
velles Haiti and the Use
of Force.
MEN PACKED IN TRAIN
Deported Without a Chance to
Oct Their Clothes No
Warning Given.
tvtclal Cable Dtupatch tn Tun Sli,
London, Dec. 16. Through Viscount
Davlgnon, son of the l.itc llclglan Min
ister of Foreign Affairs, This KL'N corrc
spondent has obtained the following eye
witness story of tho slnvo raid. Th
story was given out on the authority of
the llclglan Unvernment:
"Tho deportation of men from tho
Nlevcllcs district, southwest of llrusscls,
was fixed by tho German oftlclats for
S A. M. Tho whole male population
nbove, 17 years of age was ordered to
gather In ho Place St. Paul and at 8:15
tho Inspection by tho German otllclals
began. The men more thin 05 years old
wero dismissed after the call of their
names, but all men between IS nnd 55
were surrounded by soldiers and vvere
forced to march on, together with a
hundred railway otlielaK Including
members of the administrative staff,
"In ranks of three they went, fol
lowed by weeping women and children.
Soldiers lined the roads nnd t u every
doorstep wcie women and children, who.
filled with nngulsh and despair, looked
dazedly at the passing slaves. At tho
Delcrolx factory surgions examined the
men and the unfit were sent back to
their homer. No discrimination was
made lietwcen the rmplojcd and the un
employed. Men of Industry, traders,
masters of workshops, farmers, univer
sity students and landlords wcro taken
away together.
"Of all the victims of the raid the mot
downcast was M. Gobert, a painter, tho
father of eleven children, whom the Ger
mans deported with his eldest two sons.
When the examination was Unit bed
eight men weio pushed Into each trnln
compai Uncut nnd were locked In. Tbeic
was a rush of women, many of whom
succeeded In getting near the factory,
but the soldiers brutally disposed them.
"Many of tho men who had been
called up never imagined that they
would be deported at once. They had
como without food or suitable clothing
and sat In tho train shivering from tho
cold. This moved their moro fortunate
fellow citizens who had been exempted.
Those who hnd taken to the factory
handbags and warm clothes rushed to
tho train and bunded everything in their
possession to the deportees.
"Mennwhllii mme cars wero coming up
nnd group after Kroup dlsiippeaied, to
be locked In tho rnmp.it tnienls Immedi
ately. At noon the German oillcers left
for luncheon and many old men who
were yet i be examined wero left In
the streets for thico houis. Meanwhile
a torrential rain was falling.
"Ity 5:30 o'clock the train was full.
It consisted of thltly-lwo carriages. Into
which hail !!! clouded a thousand men
from Nlevcllcs Itself."
70,000 APPEALS BY WIRE.
I
H-jn.oon Spent for Mali I Letters by
('ordinal (Millions.
Hvi.timoix, Mn.. Dec. K.. More than
7ii;0U0 telegraph lilcht letters appealing
for contributions of "at least a dollar"
to defray tho cot of u new iccreatlon
building at St. Mary's Industrial School
for boj.s wcr- sent out by Cardinal Gib
bons to Halllniorcans In ten hours to-
1 day by tho local Western Union Tele-
i graph office.
This deluge of night letter appeals, a
unique sclume In Ilaltlmore. was worked
out on the suggestion of Cardinal Gib
bons nnd Hrothcr Paul, director of St.
Mary's, who arc In charge of tho novel
campaign. Cardinal Gibbons started tho
subscription with Jl.Ono. In nil H't "n
of theso night letters nrc to bo sent out.
The :r.,ouo or 30,000 which weic not
delivered to-day will bo sent out to.
morrow. Tho messages nre costing 2U
cents each or J20.000 for all.
WEALTHY TO FOIL BURGLARS.
Vincent Astor Heads l'roleetlvr
Society In Hudson llilntea,
rorciiKr.rrsii:, Pec. lfi. Wealthy res
idents of this district. In fear of bur
glars, havo organized tho Upper Hudson
Protective Society, which tiled articles of
Incorporation to-day,
Among the men in the organization
aro Vincent Astor, Itobert P. Hunting
ton. Fiederlck Vanderbllt, William U.
. Dlusmnre nnd John It. Itojsevelt The
' directors nrc Warren Delano of Tarry
town, Col. Archibald lingers of Hyde
Park. Tracy Dows nf Ithlnebeck. Her
man Livingston nf Gicendalo und
Thomas Hunt of Clermont,
Tho solo purpose of tho organization
Is to guard tho homes of Its members
from burglars. Arrangements hnvo
been made for two private detectives to
watch tho home of each member of tho
wclely, which also plans to offer re
wards for tho apprehension of burglars.
SOLVING IRISH PROBLEM.
Negotiations Are IIi-kiiii, Snys the
Liverpool "Post."
I.ONPON, Dec. 10. Tho Liverpool I'ait
siivn t lie i o Is no doubt that negotiation
are proceeding for a .eltlem-nt of the
Irish question nnd that the two principal
nitiotlatoiH are well known.
The iievvpfKipcr s.tn the critical atti
tude mlrjited by tho 'Nationalists toward
tho Government, for the creation of
which Sir lMward Carfon, First Lord of
the Admiralty In the new Cabinet nnd
leader of tho I'lsler Unionists, has had
some, reeponsllilllty, would make lilm
more eager to effect a genuine compro
mise nnd would Induce lilm to uimo ids
I'lsler trlciuts to adopt a nioru moilerato
attitude.
AIR-UNDERSEA MALL ROUTE.
Cnnl I'roin riilcnsfo Goes In llrriiirn
by Airplane nnd l -llont,
llimt.iN (by wireless), Dec, id. T,o
'.cUunti urn Mlttttji publishes u message
despatched on a poxlcard from Chicago
on November 2 and Just received In Mer
lin. The card was rallied from Chicago
tn New York by airplane and In llrenien
on the submarine Iknitschland.
gniilliem Kullnuy for All Piln -ninth
ii tralm dally finin New YVli ulieiauj and
itlnlnif ear service. N, Y Ofluc, li f"ith av.
.tiff.
NO PEACE, WILSON'S VIEW;
KAISER WILL OFFER TERMS;
FRENCH CLINCH VICTORY
Hold Gain of Seven Miles
and More Along Entire
Verdun Front.
CAPTURE 9,000 MEX
PI103I CKOWX PRINCE
Gen. Xivelle's Brilliant
Stroke Took Germans
by Surprise.
SEIZE 01? DESTHOY ttl
BTGGUXS 0PEXE31Y
Tricolor Xow Near Where
Teutons Began Drive
Last February.
Paws, Doc. 16. Tho great sains
mado by tho French troopj at Verdun
yesterday as n result of Gen. Xivelle's
funster stroke ngalnst tho German line
wcro moro than maintained to-day.
Tho newly formed front, stretching for
seven miles, held Intact In the face of
i violent attack by the Teutons and
to-night tho French nre moro firmly
Intrenched on the conquered ground
than ever. The trlcolar has been car
lied almost tn tho point from which It
waved before tho Germans began their
great drlvo for Verdun last February.
According to the ofllclal French re
ports the Crown Prince lot nearly j.floo
men In prl.-oncrs and eighty-one guns
ate known to have been captured or
destroyed, with the enumeration of the
war mateilal yet to ho completed. The
adjective "crushing." used In describing
the efTcct of the day's fighting on the
Kaiser's army, appears more nearly to
tell the story than any other which
could havo been chosen.
Paris Is wildly enthusiastic to-night.
The news of lie Verdun victory, com
ing iia a most welcome relief from the
gloomy tidings from Ilumanla, was re'
reived with the greatest demonstration
of enthusiasm In which the population
hero has indulged In many months.
Mv.-Ile the Jinn of the Honr."
livery where Gen, Nlvello Is acclaimed
ns tlm man of tho hour. If there had
lin-tered any doubt as to the wisdom of
his selection as commander In chief u
few days nco It has been dissipated ut
terly. Ills utmost unparalleled success
l accepted as u splendid uugury for the
lutuic. 1
In the activity which came Jut before'
sundown yesterday tho victory which
had been achieved earlier In tho day ap- j
penis to have been emphasized. Tho of
ficial I'arli H'lKirt asserts that a violent
German attack directed against tho
1'ieuch position on IVpper 1 1 III was
brought short by the lire of the defend- j
ers.
Since the great stroke when the blood
soaked ruins of Fort Vaux and Douau
mont fell onre more Into the hands of
the French Gen, NIvclle had been quiet
ly preparing to puh his advantage by
tin attack on n larger scale. As to how
well he prepared estet day's results are
In evidence. Men nnd guns had been
assembled, shells filled and everything
was in complete readiness for the com
mander when he should sec his oppor
tunity. IIIiivt 1'cll I.lUr Thunderbolt.
And Gen. NIvclle struck ut the psycho
logical moment. The blow- fell like a
t iunderbolt. Th terrlllc artillery piep.
niutlon flattened the ilerimn defences,
after which the guns, now elevated, threw t
a curtain nf steel as a shield for the In- ,
fantry. which dashed from every trench ,
from Ptvpir HI!! to beyond Damloup,
overwhelming an enemy which was still I
stunned by the unexpected bomburdmeut.
In rpots tho Germans made a gallant
effoit to hold their ground. In sojno
Instances the defence was worthy of a
more favorable outcome. Hut so r-Ml- .
fully had Gen. Nlvelle's dispositions been '
nwulo that tho Crown Prince's troops i
wero powerlebs to stem tho tldo even
momentarily.
The fall, in rapid succession, of Va
chcrauville and Louvemont villages, the
Cliambrettii fa: in mm t no tinrilaumont
and liezonvaux works was effected be-1
foro the defender. had tlmu to carry
away either guns or material, ami pris
oners in n steady stream pressed rear
ward to pens which had been prepared
for their recivtlon,
According lo all hitherto accepted no
tions tho weather wan all against tho of
fensive. Tho day was wet anil misty,
and this fact, tho French ofllcers believe,
led the Germans to miscalculate the
probability of an attack. Tho wretched
conditions did not prevent even tho avia
tion corps from rendering valuable aid
to tlio urmles on the ground. Tho ser
vlriM of tho airmen uro thought tn have
had nn Important bearing on tho fact
that tho French lomeu were ulmost
amazingly small.
Ollleliil French Bulletin.
The bulletin Issued by the War Ofllco
to-night follows:
oil the light hank of tho Meusn our
troops continued their tiuccees. They
juogressed in the Caurlere Wood ijnd
raptured the village of liezonvaux ye.
terdav. At tho close of the day a vio
lent German attack directed against
our position on Cote du Polvrc (Pen
per Hill) wus brought up short by our
lire,
We havo maintained in lt rniiroty
our new front. Prlsoncrw continue to
be brought back, tho number exceed
ing ti.uoo, of whom 250 uro olllceis.
Tho enumeration of tho material which
ban fallen into our hands lias not yet
been completed, but the computation
shows that ui to tlio present clght.v
ono ;ims havo been taken or dixtnijed
The vwual esnnonailn hutt ocetiried
on tho iet of the front.
The French War Ollkc'n Mntemcut, n,.
Continued on JVilrrt Vage.
-?
RUSSIA A UNIT
AGAINST PEACE
Foreign Office Declares the
Nation Ifcady for Greater
Sacrifices.
PirrnoGiiAP, via London, Dec. 16. A
further exposition of tho Russian Gov
ernment's attltudo toward the Column
peace proposal Is contained In the fol'ow
ing statement obtained by the Associated
Press from the Russlnn Foreign Office :
"A complcto and emphatic rejection by
Itussla of Germany's offer can baldly
have been necessary to convlnco Ainclca
nnd other neutrals of the attitude which
tho Allies' will take toward Germany's
Intlnccre and theatric peace proposal.
Germany's wish to Impress tho neutral
nations must have failed through the
very nature of Iho proposal and the
transparency of the motives which In
spired It.
"The nation honestly desirous of com
mencing peace negotiations uses moro
dignified and direct methods. She does
not advertise her Intentions throughout
the world bcfoie her proposals have even
been transmitted to the I'owers con
cerned. "A Dictated Peace."
"Tho German declaration has the
character of a sensational act of pub
licity calculated to prepossesi the licit
trai Powers, lieyond this It does not
merit serious consideration. What thu
enemy suggests In a peace dictated by
her and In accordance with tlm very
Ideas which tho Allies aro fighting to
destroy Ideas of German hegemony of
tho Prussian type.
"Itussla cannot speak of peace with an
opponent who lias proclaimed htmse'lf
the victor. The rejection of Germany's
proposal In no sense places Itussla In
tho position of n nation not desirous of
a durable peace or Insensible to tho
urgent necessity of rescuing Uuropo
from tho calamity which has cast Its
shadow over the entire world. Hut
Itussla will continue to suffer this ca
lamity and add Indefinitely to the sacri
fices which she has already made rather
than submit to the greater catastrophe
threatened by German imperial ambi
tions. "What Russia, In common with her
allies, desires is not a destroyed Ger
many but the final defeat of theso urn
bin. ms of German domination. When
Germany desires n fair and lasting
peace Itussla will bo disposed to con
sider the tlmo ripe for peaco negotia
tions." nlim Follow Dunin.
A resolution adopted by the Congress
of Nobles, containing, like tho earlier
formulas of the Duma and the Council
of tho Kmplre, a vigorous denunciation
of tho Influences which havo become
conveniently known ns "dark forces,"
and cannot nt. present lie moro (.peclflcal
ly defined. Is one of tho most Important
political developments of tho week.
This pronouncement by one of tho
oldest and most conservative elements
of tho empire, It Is pointed out, has def
initely biought tho whole country Into
complcto unanimity.
The German peace proposal, which has
given Itussla tho opportunity for em
phatic repudiation of rumors which had
been spread abroad without tho slightest
support In the tcntlment of tho nation
Itself, nnd the appointment of a new For
eign Minister who Is not uncongenial to
the Duma, havo combined to relievo the
political tension and has led to the belief
that tho Government has acquired new
stability.
Nobles' llraotutlnn.
The Congress of Nobles resolution said :
"The associations of nobility, faithful
from time Immemorial to their sover
eign, word with deep regret that at this
solemn and historic time, when tho prin
ciples of monarchies ate especially Im
portant for tho maintenance of cohesion
and unity, the Immemorial constitution
of the empire Is being shaken severely
by mysterious and Irresponsible influ
ences foielgn to legitimate power whhh
aro filtering Into tho administration of
tho state."
Tho resolution concludes: "It Is neces
sary to uproot these mysterious Intlu
ences and to create u strong government,
1'usalau to the core, possessing tho con
lidenco of tho poopio nnd able to work
In agreement with legislative Institu
tions, but i (.sponsible only to tho mon
arch." The resolution further says that
power should bo vested In tho Prlino
Minister und that "only such a govern
ment can assuro n final victory without
which tho conscience of tho country can
not ncccpt peace."
DUMA'S HEAD TALKS.
Iliidilnnko Tells Why Pence Offer
In L'nncceptnhlc,
Lonpo.v, Dec. Hi. Michael Rodzlnnko,
Ptchldeut of the Duma, according to
Iteillel's IVtro2!Mil -nrTnftml.n irut..
Iho tollowlng icas-ons why Uermany's
peace proposals should not be accepted:
"The enemy pioposes peace In circum
stances which are exceptionally advan
tageous to lilm. Ho claims to lie tho con.
queror. Wo cannot trust our adversary,
lie. Is a worn out felon who seeks not
lasting peaco but a temporary armlstlct
In order to recuperato before making a
fresh onslaught on tho Allies with
gi enter vlolcnco than ever,
"In the second placo, we nre united
to our allies by Indissoluble ties, bv com
mon sacrifice, by blood which has heen
shed, our object Is suppression of Ger
man militarism, Wo deslro that the
world shall bo able to live free from the
threat of the German fist on tho basis
of right, freedom nnd equity. Wo shall
iiRieo to negotiate only when tho enemy
It finally beiten. in concert with our
valiant allies wo shall sign a peace
which shall guarantee pence to the vihnln
world. This Is the solution of the hi,
torlo piohlems which will repay us for
what p' have MilTcred.
"We s-iv in nil nllon, 'The enenn in
tho midst n .latter of nnns v i,,..
lug an l.--iii-.i ..It Ismo from !! tinit,
foi li'J ' l hi Hi i near fii'.ur,-
We -IIV l Gil' l v "Voll oi!,'i tlio
wnr in, v it,ln o ,p,, ,,!,,
HIIHC 4 Wl 'I i I . , j ,j
have In t i "i n glu u ..our line vou
will be liclil ivfpenslble."
President Transmits Ger
man Proposal "Without
Any Indorsement.
BEKXSTOHFF HASTENS
TO LAXSIXUS OFFICE!
Ambassador Says His Gov
ernment Is Willing to Dis
cuss Disarmament.
SVISS AND SPANISH
FOLLOW U. S. LEAD
Ifcjcction of Berlin Over
turc Considered 31ore
Probable.
Wasiiinctov, Dee. 16. The pc.ic
proposal of Germany nnd the Central
Powers was despatched this afternoon
to tho Kntento belligerents by th
United States Government. Piesldeut
Wilson has added no endorsement of
supplemental comment.
It is only because the Prcsld-nt 'jj
lleves Great Urltaln Jind the K..tcn a
will not cntcrtnln the German propjaal
that the President Ii maintaining a i ol
Icy of nloofnefs which preserves th
role of spectator for the united Slate.
News that the President, for the prc3
cnt at least, would not be directly Itlcn.
tided with the German proposal wsj
followed this morning by n visit to tha
State Department by Count von l)rn
storff, the German AmhussMdor.
The Ambassador was naturally oii
cerned and desired nt once to obtain 'till
Information officially from Serctiiy
Lansing so that he could notify his Gov
ernment.
Ambassador's Ntntriurat,
After a ten minute conference with.
Mr. Lansing Count vou Iternstoiff au
thorized the following rlutemeut:
We did not dlscils peaie tein. i
any way. I have' not 'icetlved , .'
ofllclal terms, nnd the American Gc.
ernment knows ofllelally Hint no t
mal terms have been propoied ,
Germany has suggested i thai i,
belligerents get I ige'her .mil tall. If
that proposal s nccipli d ileilu.i.- ti i in i
naturally will lr dl'viinin I. Imt !
then It would not be prop-r l nietiti., i
them. My visit to t.ie Secrcuiy w..a
purely for general d.scut-sinii.
The Ambassador indie lied Hint tha
holding of n conference at The Hague or
elsewhere would depend on the willing-
nesi of tho L'nteme to d.scuss the sub
I Ject at all. If tho confereiiee Is h Id
Germany stands leady to give the Iln
tentc a full statement of terms, the At i-
bassador said. Al the Mime time Oct
many Is ready to discuss dlsaimanif it,
creation nf u league to guarantee perma
nent peace and k .ulred subjects that
might arise fnmi any peaii negotiations.
Any counter peine terms the Huteiit
might wish to piopufo would also ic
eclve consideration.
Wnltlnir on l,lil George.
Now that It has Heen mado clear tn.it
President W'l-on will not for the luc
ent bo likutltled with the Grimaii peaca
proposal the next move anxiously
awaited hi (b rmiu I'lieli Is tlm outline
of Great llilt.ilns altitude which Is im
peded to be made by Lloyd George in
Parliament next Tuesday Tlio vital
question Is: "Will Great Urltaln cb'ti
tho door to ctcii a general discussion o
peace and announce lu advance th .t thu
Kntento will reject the German offer t
'talk peace'."
So far tho epi.v-lou of nlllelals I l
Petrogrnd and Pails Indicated that t'a 4
will bo the case, but German diploma v
has not yet given up hope If tin
Kntento agrees to talk peace nt nit th
way will be paved for hi Inning the win
to an end, It Is felt In German circles.
It Is only a Hat i ejection to talk on any
basis that the Imperial Government
fears,
Tho belief that the Kuteiite Govei
ments will ll.itly teje t even the ugse
Hon of peace at the picscut time lint
been greatly strengthened within ih
last forty-eight hours In l.'niente diplo
mat ! Irclci here Time diplomats be
lieve that Piesldc' t WlWon'n "haniM
off" policy will be taken hi the Kntento
capitals as an Indication that the I micd
States has not been Improved b "ih
spectacular German move."
To Follow America' I. end.
It Ii learned to-day that the Span i
Ambassador aid tho Svls MinMn.s..
j ndilsed the l'mteil Star-., that the
. I .ry ...... li.o.it u ...III r..lA... . 1. . , .. ..
"in iviio-i inn lean oi ip, i
United States wlii rrg.i'd to the at! Mirt.i
neutral Governments will lake tmvaiil
the German offer. l!fore the l"tcldoiit
had decided on his i nurse of action oi i
of the neutial diplomats suggested l.
Secretniy I.aiifln.- the piuprlcty of neu
tral Governments viiliially going on re -onl
now us Indorsing la general toinn
the effort to end the war.
This diplomat Intimated that lu 'i ,
asked hl linn ruinent for uuthmi,v i,
make this suggestion ollli ,all ,
dent W llson. I In- the move was not c -cntirngrd
here The State Vp.i tip
made it clciir .ll.it l',eslile,il Wilton d i
not i i.'.ird the Mine opportune.
In ti.iiisml'.iniu' tiin Geimaii p .
proposal to Great Hrliatu Ihimigh v ,
bassador P.ign at London the I'm
States memorandum ueumipanv ,ng
slmplj seis forth tha1 Germany
asked the United States to take
fiction and tha' the note fiom Genua
Is Identic wi li notes addressed to i , .
Urltlsh Government by Austria-Urn.
gury. Sc. The text of all the notes .
In Knsllsh,
WIIkoh Willis for Chance.
j t nib Lilly nothing l expected In i
P" fi- mi the llrltlsh Foreign Office, h.
1 1 inssille that Mr, Page may Info
Minis if Im.-ii-s. the proposal with tho
Itrltl.di For, lun Secictary, and pcrhao i
i -id cu. Ildcmial Information a: to t'j
r
