SOPP ITN6 .
NO. 3709. VuAlmaa-.sbow. WASHINGTON, D. 2. SUNDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1916. * -ONE CIMT
GRIM BUSINESS
OF WAR AWES'.
SINOLE CONCERN
I Entente Powers Proceed to
Carry on Persistent Ham
mering at Teutons.
PEACE FEELER IGNOE
Verdun Success Followed Up-Britons
Fight on Meuse as Russia=
Make Gains.
. m.i Ca i n e Win BeaM.
Paris. Dec. 1S--Prance has answered
the Kaiser's peace proposals with her .1
centimeter guns. The Russian Dum has
given the answer of the Bear. A member
p of the British war council has asserted
th1i England wants no peace on the
termas offered by GermanY.
It Is beleved here tonight that the ac
tieS of the Duma. combined with the
suecemsful attack by French troops, al
Verdn, is an accurate forecast of the
answer of the entire entente.
While the French troops are continuing
to press their advance on the Verdur
front, the British troops on the Meuse
are locked in a desperate troops with
the Kaiser's soldiers, and similarly, on
the front In Mesopotamia, the British and
French have started a new offensive.
The Russian armied in the Carpathians
nare reported to have redoubled their ef
forts to strike a crushing blow at Von
Falkenhayn and Mackensen. and severa
minor succesmse have been recorded by
the war office in Petrograd.
Enaglish Ueistanee Crystaillised.
London advice. state that the British
nation Is preparing to setUe down to a
period of war life appronixating the
-onditions that have'existed for so long
in Germany. After the new year, the
people w1;1 be made acquainted with war
bread and sugar allowances. and travel
i will be restricted. From steps alreaf
,!.ken it is certain that the drastic
" -anges mean that Great Britain is pre
naring to back the sentiments of Earl
I rey and continue the war until Ger
many's power has been crushed.
A statement given out by the foreigs
ofMI.v at Petrograd tonight supplementa
the speech of the foreign minister in the
l'nma. unqualifiedly rejecting the peace
overtures of the central powers. It in
I stated that Russia is desirous of effect
lng a lasting peace. but declaree tha
Itussia cannot speak of peace wMt as
opunent who has proclaimed herself the
ih-to," The statement adds:
"The rejection of Germany's proposa
in no sense places Russia in the post of
- a nation not desirous of a durable passe
or insensible to the urgent necesity 01
rcscuing Europe from the calamity whici
has cast its shadow over the entire
world. But Russia will continue to suffer
this calamity and add indefinitely to
the sacrifices which she has already
made rather than submit to the greate
castrophe threatened by German Imperie
ambitions."
What the Preeh Did.
These results were achieved by the
French in their sudden blow strucl
against the crown prince's front before
Verdun. east of the Meuse. yesterday:
More than 9.000 prisoners were taken
including 250 officers.
Fighty-one guns were captured or de
stroyed. The villages of Vacherauvill<
and l.ouvemont. Chambrette Farm, and
the Pardamour t and Besonvaux works
.ere reco-iuered. The Positions thus re
-,rupled are clos- to those held by the
rench on the right bank of the Meuse
ofore the crown prince's great Verdun
i -iv -Ig-in bst February.
Th Prn-h attte was delivered by
* men and the front attacke<
I bau the .arm' number.
I2,O0.000 HOMEL
PLANNED IN OTHM
E. M. Statler Will Erect Hostelry Con
taining 2,200 Rooms.
fny the otiernattonsI News Service.
New York, Dec., 1.-Th' operation o
the Pennsylvania Hotel, at first planned
as the largest hotel in this city changed
hands today. U:nder the plans of the nei
operatori it will he the largest hotel i1
the world. Th's change followed th
a-sing of the orerating lease from F. J
Machette to E. M. Statler, president o
the Hotel Statler Comrany. Mr. Machett
had obtaineI the lease from the Penn
sylvania Reilrond.
Mr. Statler will construct a hotel wit!
.0" roorns at an approximate cost o
about 1 The first plans catle
for a L200-rooni structure. Excavation
for the mammoth hotel is already I
progress. 4t will occupy a tract in Se
enth avenue, facing the Pennsylvan
Station. having a frontage of 400 feet I:
Thirty-third street and 20M feet in Thirty
second street. The Pennsylvania will be
sixteen stories in height.
The Statler Hotel Company is no1
operating latge hotels in Buffalo. Cleve
land and Detroit. It is constructing an
other at St. Louis.
"UFAIO DILL" SERIOUSLY I
Denver. Col., Dgc. IL--Col. Cody (Buf
falo BillD Is seriously Ill at the home o
his sister here. According to his phay
alcian. Dr. 3. H. East. Col. Cody spen
a bad night last akht and it is under
-stood that members of his family hav,
been summqned fresa his ranch at Cody
"a Wyo. He is suffering from a genera
breakdown, according to the physician
who says the illness is grave because e
the age of the former painan. who t
70 years old.
om E, E~ . FARLEY R
Casanon Dec. Il-Hain Holden, presi
dent et the BDrhingtem Banlread, ani
chusran of the eonmnittse of raitreai
heads who coaferred with President Wil
semn, today condrmned statements rmade b;
Preddent Lee. of the Trainman's Broth
aerhood, at the Evaemvfle, Ind., tranepor
4. satan cot that esferemoes be
twee theWerkers and ese.u
tives are behug held with a viaw ta
he aetlin their differeness out of omrt.
Amesa. Chasiestea. 0mmm ei
Anamo .ea.Ln. 14f N. ... -w
Rep. BRlmd Pre21 e
DayEglt' Savig MI
Congress will be asked to Pass
on the "daylight saving" cheme at
the present session. Representative
Borland. of Missouri. began work
on eha mnesmre today.
It ad-n ed to put Into opera
"a a Federal law for the daylight
saving schesr a which practically all
of the nations of Europe adopted
at the begining of the war.
The plan contemplates putting
all locks ahead one hd~r dur
ing the sum months.
The Pederal governmqnt could
. put the plan In effect in the Dis
trict of Columbia. all agencies of
interstate commerce, and in the
mans.
ENVOY PAYS CALL
VonBernstorff DiscussesPeace
with Secretary Lansing.
Count Von Berpstorff. the German Am
bassador, visited the state Department
yesterday and informad Secretary Lan
sing the central powers are ready to give
the entente group a statement of the pre
liminary terms upon which they propose
to discuss peace.
The German diplomat added that as
soon an a conference had been organised
his government would prsent full terms
as a proposal for definite peace. It is
understood the formal proposal contem
plates an agreement for partial disarma
ment. At the conclusion of the confer
ence Ambassador Von Bernstorff said:
"I have not received any formal terms
and the American government knows of
ficially that no formal terms have been
proposed. All Germany ham suggested is
that the belligerents get together and
talk.
"If that proposal to accepted deinite
terms naturally will be discussed. but
until then it will not be proper to in
dulge in speculation. My visit to the
Secretary of State was purely for general
discussion."
The German Amba-ador was in a most
optimistic frame of mind over the wide
spread sentiment for peace expressed in
this country. He appeared entirely satt
fled with the course adopted by this coun
try.
The pecee notes were forwarded to
london. Paris and Petrograd before neon
yesterday. The text of each communica
tim was in English. but for purposes of
comparison the original text In French
will be forwarded an soon am the cables
are clear of the English text.
Hope was expressed at the State De
partment that a reply would be received
from the allies within ten daya In an
ticipation of this President Wilson and
Secretary Lanciny will spend Christmas
in Washington. Ambassador Von Bern
storff also has cancelled arrangements
for a Christmas vacation be had expected
to speind In Florida.
"RSON DENONS
"UNIVERSAL ALLMANE"
Former Secretary of War Warns U. S.
of Dangers Ahead.
(By the INterantiosal News Service.)
New York, Dec. 16-Lindley M. Garri
son, former Secretary of War in the
Wilson Cabinet sounded a warning today
against the U'nited States entering into
a universal alliance of nations, as hasl
been proposed. He' was the principal
speaker on the ".Nationalism" program
at the Lawyers' Club, 115 Broadway. It
was the first speech Mr. Garrison has
made since his resignation from the
I.abinet, in which he discussed state af
fairs and policies.
Mr. Garrison $aid: "If the United States
is engaged, as suegested, in a universal
alliance. she is perforce a party to every
quarrel the wide world over. It is not
inevitable. that instead of pursuing ner
natural development along lines expres
sive of her Innate genius and energy she
will surely be diverted therefrom and
plunged Into alien matters utterly for
eign to her real concern and her beat and
vital Interests."
Mr. Garrison warned against lack of
preparation for war, under guise of ab
hor'ence to war, saying: "It is little
short of treason to deny the importance
of preparedness." He added that the na~
tional government has flinched, faltered
and neglected Its duties in this one re
spect and has tried to pass its neglected
duties up to the States.
TRAMPORT SUMNER ARAMIRND
I New York. Dec. 1d.-Thq government
transport Sumner was abandoned shortly
before noon today. Capt. Webber &d
the remaining members of the crew sue
ceeded in getting a boat away from the
- slowly settling vessel after a hard battle
with the high seas which already hers
begun to wash her decks. They were
p taken aboard the coast guard cutter
Seneca and brought to New York.
MRS. DAVID LEE SUE.
Baltimore, Md., Dec. 16.-Mrs. Virginia
D. Lee, daughter of the late Charles
-Broadway Rouse,, a millionaire philantro
pist of New York, ha, entered suit in the
Circuit Court here for an absolute divorce
-from her husband, David Lee, of Belair,
hid. The suit was filed on October 18,
but beame known for the first time to
day. .In her bill she charges her husband
abandoned her.
TO SELL DIG STEE PLANTI.
Lea6.Pa., Dee, I.-The board of
directors of the American Iron and Steel
Company announced today that they had
voted unanlmousy tossrthe company's
two plants hare and at Ilsading to the
Bethlehem Steel Corporation fo' Itmm.
iNinety-nins per cent of the stockholder.
have agreed to accept It.M for each
hare of. stock.
WOOD AICOROL mILa C0UYrors,
Jollst. Ill.. Dee. 16.-Three convicts are
dead, three are believed to haea no
chance of reovery and three etbers are
in serious ondliten today as a resuft of
drinking wood aieshe1. #Mh they bed
etiim Sm the mes.~
CARABAO RECALL
"DAYS OF EMPIE"
Veteran Service Officers of
Piine Campaip Dine
at the Willard.
Me" cail corralled nearly 300 members
and guesta of the Washington Corral
Military Order of the Carabso a$ the
New Willard last night for the annual
dinner.
At this anniversary dinner memories
went back sixteen years to the Army and
Navy Club in Manila, where a smal1
group of ofoers organised the Military
Order of the Carabao. The name was
adopted in recognition of the servies.
rendered the American force. by the
faithful carabao. a water bufalo, the
beast of burden In the islands.
The founders of the order had no Idea
that the organization would attain Its
present proportions. Today its roll con
tains nearly 2.000 names, among which
may be found nearly all the army, navy
and Marine Corps officers who have
served in the Philippines.
Toast to President.
The festivities last night were opened
by Capt. J.,hn H. Gibbons, Paramount
Carabao, who proposed a toast to the
President of the United States, which wai
followed by the "Star Spangled Banner"
by the Marine Band.
A parade followed. A& their names
were called "notables'' entered in ni
form on "hobby horses" and ae
speeches in rhyme. Those called were:
Maj. Gen. George Barnett. Admiral Will
lam S. Benson. Rear Admiral Leigh C.
Palmer, Brig. Gen. Henry P. McCain and
Paymaster General Samuel McGowan.
Commander Noble E. Irwin was "be
binero" for the evening.
A feature Was the flight of an aero
plane over the heads of the diners. It
brought messages to the "Bombinero."
which he read aloud. One read: "Rumor
that dry wave is headed toward Wash
ington. To insure existence of refresh
ments at this dinner am forwarding sup
ply of select 'vino' for Immediate and
future use."
Shower Ameriean Flags.
The secend appearance of the aeroplane
introduced the novelty of an attack of
anti-aircraft guns, bombs exploding all
about the aeroplane showering confetti
and American Sagi.
A Filipino market day, showing a
Carabao cart, with natives and a realistic
cock-fight were well staged and during
OONTINUUD ON PAGE YOUR.
$220,OW,9 WIM SK
OT ilALS NEAR
Attorney General Says Government 1s
Preparing for Early Promectiions.
The United States government yester
day announced its readiness to make its
Dinal move to break up the whisky con
spiracy which Commissioner of the In
ternal Revenue Osborn estimates has de
frauded the government of $M,000,1O reve
nue in a decade.
Attorney General Gregory Issued a
statement that the government Is pro
paring to press to trial early in January
the came, against Guy Hartman, J. H.
Surber, and Thomas C. McCoy. All are
under Indictment and McCoy has just
been convicted at Jacksonville, PIla. An
other indictment in pending against him
at Fort Smith, Ark.
The frauds were engineered, it Is al
leged. through conspiracy with govern
ment revenue agents. McCoy and Surber
formerly were revenue agents.
Surber resigned the Asheville, N. C.,
jurisdiction in 1912 to become head of the
"university of whisky swindlers," the iie
partment of Justice says.
Government storekeepers and gaugers
already have been tried and convicted
for complicity.
Hartman last year jumped a MeN,
bond, fled to Mexico and there, in din
guise, did valuable scout duty for the
American expeditionary force. He ross.
,d Into the United States last summer
and started to return. When but twenty
feet from the International boundary an
officer arrested him and took him back
to Fort Smith. He han made a full con
fession.
G. E. HUGiHES IL HEAD
N. Y. BAR ASSOIIATION
Late Presidential Candidate Slated for
Place by Nobinating Body.
(fy the Internatieon News Se'vise,)
Albany, N. Y., Dec. IL-Charles 1.
Hughes will be the next president the
New York State Bar AssocIation. He
has been named for the office by the
nominating committee and this is equiva
lent to election.
The nomination was made several days
-ago, but the announcement is made in a
circular letter mailed today to the mem
bers of the ocation. The formal ele1
tion will take place at the annual meet
ing In Brooklyn January 12 and 13. Alton
B. Parker is chairman of the nominating
committee.
48 mv. U-BOAT PERIL
New York. Dec. 1i.-Braving the perils
of "war sone" wata' E passengers
sailed for England today on the Ameri.
can liner St. PauL. It wam the biggest
paengner liat carried en any liner since
the Lusitanla was sunk. There was a
big cargo of mail, as the St. Paul Is the
last of the "Christmaa ahipe" to leave
port. She is due to arrive es Christmas
EUGEgg AWAXUS GOIIU
Daltimore, Md., Dec. i&-RIvering from
the cold and saying that he was hungry.
Arthur Gumprecht, Is $4arm old, walked
Into detective theadqupartera and marrand
ered himself to Detective-ank, stating
that he was wanted in 3Msw Terk for
vteatene the parole. GuMretd~ that
after he wa.11aroled he esmniteS tan
eeny.
ResaoFse bu her3
to 56. Set omalt Agets,
M. rMGM Tri Out
New FOdsm Cabinet
Retarty aof mm e iRedoeld
is earning the tito at amea
taster for the peop. at the United
Stes,
Unde his sMe ryscm the 1n
rea of 'heries me given the
public several new kinds of Osh.
The Secretary never announces that
a fih In edible Untl he partakes of
It. He Usually serves newly dis.
00vered edible foods. prepared
from recipes Invented by Mrs. ed
Aid, at dinners given members of
the Cabnet before announcement
of the discovery is made.
OfT PAPER OFFER
Publishers Receive Proposal
From Manufacturers.
An offer by naafaeturers of amsb
print paper to sell thinr 117 output, now
contracted for, at the average contrac
price according to a pro rata distribution
to be agreed upon by the newepaper
ubteer was the only tangible pro
tion submitted toward a solution of
present _ unprecedented news print
paper shortage at the meeting of pub
lishe%- manufacturer. and jobbers yes
terday before the Federal Trade Commis
son at the New Willard Hotel.
Following brief discussion of this offer
by representatives of the manler pub
lishers, who did not suggest an alterna
tive proposition, the hearing was ad
journed until tomorrow.
Committees representing Us three
parties at interest will meet then with
the Federal Trade Commission to frame
a questionaire to be sent all publishers
in this country to ascertain their paper
requirements for the next year. what
paper supplies they have contracted for.
and to what extant they are willing to
relinquish a percentage of their con
tracts, so that smaller publishers may
be taken care of.
Put Up to Big Pubitabere.
In making this offer the manufacturers
said they believed all publishers' re
quirements could be taken cara of at
equitable prices if the larger publishers.
who now have practically the entire
supply for 19M7 under contract, would
agree to relinquish from 6 to 10 per cent
of the amount their contracts call for.
Representatives of the jobbers offered
to distribute the paper which might be
relinquished from existing contracts to
rmaller publishers at an Increase of I
cent per pound over prevailing contract
prices.
The committee which Is to prepare the
questionalre In conjunctioin with the Fed
CONTNUIED ON PAGE FOUR.
Telegraph Tips |
Berlin. Dec. 16.-Beginning tonight.
cafes, theaters and hotels In Berlin must
close at 11:30 and stores at 9 p. m. Rail
traffic In the city will be suspended at
11:3D to save fuel.
New Orleans. La.. Dec. 16.-Joseph
Letter. millionaire clubman, of Washing
ton, was recovering today from an ac
cident that nearly cost him the sight or
one eye. While hunting ducks, Letter
ran a reed into his eye.
Berlin, Dec. 16.-The first appeal for
volunteers to the civil army was posted
In Magdeburg yesterday.
Liverpool. Eng., Dec. 16.-The boiler
makers strike has ben settled. The men
will return to work Monday.
St. Paul. Minn.. Dec. 16.-A proposal
for the manufacture of print paper at the
State penitentiary on the same basis as
twine is now manufactured has been dis
cutsed by the legislative committee of
the Minnesota Editorial Association.
Buenos Ayres. Dec. i6.-The minister of
finance has accepted a short-term loar
of $16,800,000 at 6 pet cent, offered by
New York bankers. Senor Naon, Ar
gentine Ambassador at Washington,
has been authorised to sign the notes.
Winnipeg, Man., Dec. 16.-C. F. Doherty,
minister of Justice, has reft6ed to grant
a new trial to Thomas Kelly. wealthy
contractor, convicted and sentenced to
prl for conspiracy to defraud the
ment of Manitoba In connection
h the erection of parliament buildings
here.
Annapolis. Md., Dee. 16.-The midship
men of the first class held their annual
Christmas carnival. Traditionally the
celebration has taken place early Christ
mas morning, but since permission has
been given the midthipmen to leave the
city during the holidays the date has
been advanced.
Chisholm. Minn., Dec. .1-Oficial an
nouncement is made at the local head
quarters of the Great Northern ore prop
erties that beginning Friday a general 10
per cent increase In wages will be given
to all its employes.
Atlanta. Ga.. Dec. 1.-"Blarber pole"
signs have been painted on all Bouthern
Railway crossing gates in an effort to
attract the attention of reekless automo
bile drivers. Experience has shown that
many autormobile drivers dash across rail
way tracks without regarding the "Stop.
Look and IUsteni"\sgna, and some of
them have even crashed through the
gates at crssingfs.
Casnovia. Mich.. Dec. 16.-A breach of
promise action for 120.000 has beeg filed
by Leeiand .Hammnond, a Chicago aviator.
against Mrs. Virall Bgdell, of this village.
lie asserts Mrs. Bedeu, at that tims un
married. but now the wife of a proaperous
farmer. ;:.emlsed to marry him while
they were on a trip above the clouds, but
jilted him for the farmer.
Alton, IL., Dec. 16.-Two men were
killed and several injured in an explosi.n
whibh wrecked two stations of the Stand
ard Oil Company at Woodriver, IL., near
here, early today, and thraelsd the de.
ueration by fire of ten large tanks filed
with ci.
Lcodn. Dec. I.-The Siwedish staemmei
Vela and the Nor'wegie ship Brak have
been sunk. The Vala was deteyed by
a mine, Ied report the ew-et the
Vala saved. hut a Chzeta~inaq
VILLA REQUESTS
URDER PARLEY
Baniki'chie Asks Gen. Scott
to Dicuss Plan for
Policing Line.
By L. V. IL 3KmJ.
Paw. Dec. .-Villa hag asked far
a conference with Gs. ENgh Scott rola
tive to policdg the border and the pre
tection of the lives and property of
Americans and other foreigners, accord
Ing to the messmge of a secod nMoy
from the bandit, who. ooncamitng his
identity. arrived here today.
The second Wmterlous envoy from the
bandit conferred with G1. BOB and
State Departamnt special ageonta. The
courier quoted Villa a sayng that G..
Scott, unhampered could have setled
the Mexican situation long ino and
cculd have prevented bloodashed and revo
lution. Villa and Gen. Scott long have
been friends. They had several cfers
eneea in El Paso and elsewhere before
Villa lost the friendship of the United
States through his raids on Columbus
and elsewhere.
VIia sent word that he has no ani
mosity towards any Americana except
"dollar diplomats, who are truckling and
kowtowing to Carransa."
According to the envoy. Villa is so
preme In the state of tbma.ua.
Coahuila and Durango and i appreach
ing supremacy In Sonora with the coom
plete overthrow of Carransa at hand.
Vlla' latest alleged proposals. through
the two envoy@ who have appeared here
with olive branches in their hand&= is
considered a complete change of heart
from the lurid manifesto which esteni
bly was issued by the bandit chieftain
while he occupied Chihuahua City and
which reached El Paso a week ago to
night. The messages borne by the en
voys are taken to mean that Villa has
no intention of attacking Persing mod
also seeks to disavow any complicity in
the raids, upo6 Columbus and Santa
Yvabel.
Military men here have received an
unofflcal communication from Waehn.
ton that Gen. Scott is willing to confer
with Villa but officials on the border
ar Inclined to minimize that possihbity
in view of the fact that much a confer
ence would imply recognition of the
bandit.
WARNED BY WIRELESS
SIP EVADES OIOA1'
Passenne on French User Chicago
Nearly Panic Stricken.
41y the lnternat l News sriee.)
New York. Dec. 1.-Dodging through
the Atlantic, far off her course, to avoid
a German raider that was supposed to
be In the vicinity, the French liner Chi
cago arrived today from Bordeaux four
days overdue. The 23D passengers on
board did not breathe easily until the
friendly shores of the United States were
sighted.
When wireless warnings of the supposed
presence of the German raider were re
ceived on December 6 a panic among
the steerage passengers was narrowly
averted.
Aboard the Chicago were twenty sol
diers who have been fighting with the
allies and who cime here on furlough to
spend Christmas. Among them were two
American members of the French flying
corps, George Rockwell and William
Frey.
JISSINi liES FEND
IN CHINESE LAUNDRY
Anonymous Note Leads to Recovery
of $10,000 of Stolen Jewels.
SRcial to Tho Wasingtin BhlM.
New York, Dec. 1.-A mysterious let
ter which was received by the Lamport
and Holt Steamship Company led to the
recovery of gems valued at 310,000 which
were taken from the offce on the ooin
pany's pier, at the fool of Montague
street. Brooklyn. The jewels were found
I in a Chinese laundry. In Brooklyn, which
was mentioned in the letter as the place
where they had been left. The letter was
unsigned.
How the jewels found their way to the
laundry and the circumstances In which
they were stolen from the pier the police
have not revealed. A close watch Is
being kept at the home of a missing
clerk. formerly employed at the pier.
The jewels included Brasilian diamonds
valued at M. and pearls valued at
5000. They had been deposited at the
office of the steamship company to await
the action of the consignee.
GREEK ISLE REPORTED SEIm,
Berlin (via Sayville wireless), Dec. 16.
According to official reports received here,
says the Overseas News Agency, the Ger
man. Austro-Hungarians and Turkish
residents on the 'Greek island of Syra
were arrested by a detachment of the en.
tente which landed there. The Gerrman
consul died twenty-foujr hours later as
the result of abominable treatment re
ceived. He was 23 years old.
EBEAR S EEEP, ESCAPE T.KAD.
Bangor. Me., Dec. 16.--Only eighteen
bears have been brought here this sea
son compared with seventy-two last sea
son. There are as Emany bears as ever,
but on account of the failure of the beech
nut crop the animals have hibernated
earlier than usual.
Ten thousand deer are belIeved to have
been killed in this State in the shooting
season just cloped.
KAISER AGAIN GRANDJATHER.
IBerlin. via London, Dec. 16.-PrIncess
Joachiin, of Prussia, danahter-in-law of
the German Emperor, gave birth to a
sn today.
The child Ia the tenth grandchild of the
Lnperor and the forth to be berm since
~e beginnbing of the war.
, lse te C&e Oble Emway
-for your %~I~eheliday trip.
Three trains ~ teWest: S m.i..
4:8n ua . ts F
U.S.WORKER
IN. HOUSE I
ON HERALI
Dayes DygmsI
Tight fr Higher Pay
L Boome Rules Committee reports
privisgsd resolution that throws
spen legislative bill to general
Smemiments. and makes In order
all amendments for salary in
creases., including the Nolan bill.
2. Borland amendment adding an
extra hour to the time schedule of
government clerks and employee
deftated in committee.
3 Mass meeting arranged for to
morrow night. at Convention Hall.
for incre.ed .alarie.
4. District appropriation bill com
pleted by appropriations committee
with the exception of the rate ->f
salary incrases.
HERALD IS LAUDED
Paper's Fight for Higher Pay
Commended.
In appreciation of the work done by
The Washington Herald toward obtain
ing increased salaries for government
employes, the following statements were
made last night:
President II. M. McLarin. Federal Em
ployes Union: "I have always had an
abiding faith in the fairness of the House
of Representatives and of course it is
Increased by the vote today. I am ex
ceedingly grateful to The Washington
Herald and the press generally for the
interest they have taken in this move
ment for the government smploye. I am
fully confident that tihe tion of the
House ano Senate will be marked by a
disposition to dispense fairness and jus
tice to all."
Representatlve Nolan. of California:
-f course I am pleased in the knowi
edge that the bill for which I have long
striven will have the opportunity to be
passed upon by the House membership.
The necessity of helping the government
employe on a small salary was first im
pressed on Congress through the hearings
on the Nolan bill. Naturally I feel that
it,should be given the fullest eonidera
tion.
'I believe that The Washington Herald
In getting behind the poorer paid gov
ernnsment employe has done splendid work.
Certainly I have appreciated its co-opera
tion."
PREITY TEACHER AVERS
IRATE WIFE BEAT HER
Gets Warrant for Mrs. Brown. Whose
Husband Is Trustee.
speial to The Wa hieeton Heiraik.
Highland Falls. N. Y., Dec. 1.-At best
teaching is no sinecure. But Mrs. Helen
M. Rourke. the young- and attractive
woman who instructs the youth of
Moodna. a village near here, has found
out, according to her own story, that
there are worse things than the monotonY
of pedagogy. There was no monotony of
which to complain on the day she refers
to in the charge which she has roade in
obtaining a warrant for the arrest of
Mrs. Spencer Brown.
She asserts that Mrs. Brown, mistaken
ly believing that she ithe teacher) was
too friendly with Mr. Brown. who is a
school trustee. alled at the school roon.
Then. she said. after a brief but heated
collopuy. Mrs. Brown seized a porcelain
lined dipper. chased her and beat her
many times with the vessel, and wound
up the performance by shoving her head
through a pane of glass.
The minds of the pupils being more or
less diverted from their studies by the
proceedings. Mrs. Rourke found them
gone when a momentary pause occurred
In the proceedings.
MILOER,WITHSNOW,
PROSPECT FOR TODAY
Intense Cold Expected to Moderate,
but Change Will Be Gradual.
The man in charge of the weather has
decided to spread a few clouds over thq
roof of the earth today, according to re
ports from his headquarters, TowarA
evening he will gradually hide the bhu
behind a gray, laden curtain and a quan
tity of snow Is expected to fall over the
District in the night.
The Icy blasts of the pest iwo days are
not expected to repeat their unselcome
visIt, hut the aerial currents will yesl
from their present southerly course and
blow due northwest. The Intense 001c
that has chilled Washingtonians to the
bone during the last few days will nol
continue. but a gradual moderation tI
probable.
Those who have been threatening te
haul out the old red flannels and extr,
heavy clothe. can bide thelr tbne yet I
whIle.
Tomorrow Is expected to dawn fair, no
cold, but with enough tang to make Con
gressmen, 'gevernment employeg anc
others get about at a fast clip to keeg
the blood oirculating normally.
Berlin (via Seyville wirelessi. Dec. 16.
The Berliner Zeitung Ammitag todaj
publIshed an interesting measane sent on
November 2 from Chicago. The car,
traveled 1,0h miles on aeroplanes abovw
land to New York and then 3.000 mile:
Under water ons board the merchant su
matn Deutachland freom New York t
Br'emen.
aned eTa es ls -m mmmo..s
S TRIUMPH
rEST VOTE
) MOVEMENT
A&ocatem of Fedu lPy Is.
creses Outnumber Oppo.
nents 263 to 77 on Spe
cialRuleIswne
Advocates of higher sabries isr
government and District emplyee 1
won an overwhelming victory in the
first test vote in the House of Rep
resentatives yesterday and the ~
was set for the real bade, w& WK
begin when Congress coaewuse at
noon tomorrow. The victory yestew
day was a d ie recit af the tE"s.
ment inaugurated by The Wadim
too Herald several weeks ago.
The fight in the House centered
around Chairman Henry, of the Con
mittee on Rules, and Chairmaa Fits
gerald, of the Committee on Appro
priations. A roll-call on th os.--e"
at issue found a63 members voting to
sustain the rules chairman is open.
ing up the legislative, executive and
judicial bill to amendment. as against
77 members favoring the New York
Representative in his ight to limit
amendments to Section 6.
In substance the vote shows ondo
sively that the sentiment of the Remse
favors a larger increase for sareamm
employee than the 5 and 3 per ,t o
creases granted by the Committee on Aw.
propriations.
The vote leaves the measure apas fer
the admiadoon of the Nolan P-*da"
m--mmum wage bll and othe amed
mentp designed to grant larger tacremas
than those provided by the cnmsittee.
It permits a separate vote as eck
amendment and provides tere d a.
Special ale atedL
Action developed the mant seem 4
was reached in the reading of the hd
lative, executive and judicial bil. P.
lowing a series of conferences with lad
ers of the Eouse and supporters ef the
movement for higher wages, the Mam
Committee of the House had voted to
grant a spesial rule that womud mahe
amendments to section 6 not shect Is a
point of order.
Chairman Henry gained reaesuita t
one and offered the privaeged reads
tion. Representative PItassend wW on
his feet immediately to itaerpeen eb
jection. Hc declared his Oppe5 ft
the rule and said it w ot - es he
had requested tCom the ommiee.
The previous question being one et or
der, orty migetes was allowed for g.
curvion of the rule.
Ftteesmld as 3t5ts.
Representative Pitagerald being the only
member to rise in opposition, the rueS
was allotted the full time in opposition.
He expressed gratifcation that the Cem
-nittee on Rules would lose Its present
:chairman at the next session (Henry did
not run for re-election to Congresm, but
was deteated for Senator) and denoWDnce
the action of the Rules Committee s
the most remarkable spectacle he bad
ever witnessed in his long experience
in the House.
lie characterted the action as arreMnt
and as expressing complete contempt for
COleNIFrItw oi~ PAat sMnW
WOMAN FOUN BOU,
AUSES NM THIF
$200 Reported Stolen Discoveted is
Home-Police Face Puzzl.
Mrs. C. W. Berry was found yesterdaw
bound and gagged at her home. 1014 B
street northeast, by Mrs. Annie Jones.
a neighbor Mrs. Berry was on the
beeond floor, tied to a chair with stripS
of cloth. A bank book, 200 and jewelry
were !eported missing. Later the money'
uss found in a fern vase on the first
floor.
Mrs. Jones and Mrs. Berry's husband.
Charles W. Berry. Pension Ofe clerk.
t ld the police that while dressing Mrs.
herry heard a noise on the first floor.
- he went doan and wag acecsted by a
negro, who pursued and caught her. and
struck her several blows with a potol.
lHe then bound the woman. acoording
to the story reaching the police. Mrs.
Rerry refused to be interviewed by po
licemen. It was said she was excedsly
nervoup.
Neighbors told the pollee Mrs. Berry
ted been much Impressed bp stories of
recent robberies and holdups.
Urs. Berry, when told the money bad
been found. said she threw it into the
fern vase when pursued by the negro
The value of the jewelry was not
stated. Mr. B.rry told the police he was
sure he could find the bank boat.
A glass window in the kttehm dem
;was broken.
o10 o Worn W&OE.
Los Angeles, 'al. De . --enbewrig
two exploaions. the Ihsweflyn less
herk a practically destroyed by the
heeerytoday and the Lacy Ken
factluring Company was seriously dam
aged, a few hours after David Capia,.
Icharged with complicity t.o -nmam
with the TImes dyamithng six yeses age
Iwee found guilty of voluntary mand5~
ter. The Ioes is estimnated at ebemi
'00.880.
The police believe te3.y 3r. to ho
been of Incendiary orig.
so FANYTms' FIEE urFIRE.
Shamokin. Pa..De -ir, MA
destroyed a large part of the bea
section of tthsmokbn today. Beveral pe
sons were injured by falling wels, ad
scores are sugfering from exposmre. The
thmve upper Boors of one bidltg held
,ilxty famillet, all of wheen were drimm
alto the etreett in their night ceintg.
I OKARUR IAFMJJ M,
Chaplin is In a hospital today. The -
lion doljsr moe.e menedia Is abu
from lscerattons of 'the esmo a deep
cut in his fewehad, Is a5tu 3. a
shaking p. as a segem ~efge g
=mesh sseam ama eed -
