THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
T W KNTY-SEVENTII YEAR
28 PAGES
piioeni;
VTry
TZONA, SUNDAY MOHNINd, DKCKMHKli 17, 1910
28 PAGES
VOL XXVIT., NO. 212
n
SCOTT MI 11
ID CAN BRING
PEACE IK MEXICO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Tex.. Dec 16 If a con
ference could be irranged between
nntl General Hugh L. Scott of
the I ni led Suites army an agreement
t . , li I).' reached which would settle
all differences netwttn the I'nited
Sinew and Mexico according to u
statement made to the military au
thorities here tiy a Mexican who
ci.i mnl to have direct authority from
V illa to. make such a proposal.
'General Srott is a good man' Villa
is qi.ote.l pa telling his representative,
"and we almost settled the Mexican
qrestion at one time."
The envoy said he had beer, au
ticorixed to make clear that Villa holds
no enmitv towards the people of the
lited States, but only toward those
officials who accomplished fie recog
nition of Carranira and permuted t'a.-ran-vi
troops to pass through Ameri
can territory to Asua v'rietu. causing
ilia to loose a decisive battle theie
for the mastery of the ronublu'.
AmeriTtii outposts at Falcons, a
town on fie Riu Grande abo it thirtv
miles "iitheoM t.t here, reported to
dav seeing a larg- force of arinei'
Mexicans 'n the. opiMisite side of the
bo!in''.arv. Mexicans on this side sail
ihev wtre oapdits. The patrols said
the men roue up mi d down the bank:;
of the river but did not try to cross.
Ouevedo Makes Escape
!H)li;i,AS. Ariz, Dec. 16 .lose
Quevedoj allayed to hold the rank 01
major in the Villa forces, who win
known to be on this side ot" the border
ant' iw under surveilance by secret
service men. eluded bis trailers Thurs
day nierht by having the train on
which he was traveling from Kl Paso,
T.-yas, to Douglas. Arizona, by the
sim; de expedient of dropp'ng off at a
small town near the New Mexico
Ariyona bonier He then ma.ie his
way southward to the Chihuahua line
and joined an escort of Yillistas under
his l.i other. Col. Silvcstre yuevedo,
leavlr.;; with them for the south to
rcoort to Villa.
A report to this ef fe t was the sub
ject of general discussion here tndav.
Wit. Colonel (juevedo, according to
Mexitan rennets, were, three hundred
men who remained concealed in the
nioui. tains near San l.uis Pass a few
pii'es west of the American exiedi
tkunary forte for several days while
Villa's emi.snrv corr.oleted his mission
in Kl Peso, is stated
Members of the congress of work
men, recently established by de ree of
Adolfo ( li Huerta, governor if So
nora, will be chosen at an election to
be held in all part:, of "he state, Sun
day. Twelve are to lie chosen. The
congress will leal with all labor pro,
leiiis in the state, recommending law,
to the governor for passage by th
iu't conrress.
A.onlfo De I Hutrta. who left her?
tonight foe Mexico rif, declared he
had not retigT.ed his ffices that the
report reaching the border probyMv
emanated from his political enemies
Gi! icrto Vainzue la. sccretarv .if state
is aiin? governor d iring his ab
sence, which be expects to be for
about twenty days.
Me was sirmmon'Hl by first chief
VenusU.'.no Carranza. be said, and did
nc knovv the reason.
The governor said he can planning
to isoe a decree, in the near future
provirl'113 for the formation of o
f ii ties oa'.'ng in various commodities
Thse would "v hange their wares or
products without necessity of hand
ling mrr.ev. This Idea he said was a
basic one in socialsm and would serve
to relieve the monetary situation In
-Mexico if generally adopted.
Trevino to Mexico City
GK.N". Jacinto Trevino, late com-
(Continued on Page Two)
CALLES Tl DECIDE
(Special to The Republican) l
TFC.SON. Ike 16. Trinidad Duarte
and Manuel Garcia members of the,
bandit hand who held up the bank at
liuckeye near phoenix, December 5,
w ill either be in the hands of Sherif.' I
J D. Adams of Maricopa county or be;'
eeuid as Villistna and cattle'
thieves tomorrow morning. This u
tl.e information brought here today i
bv Deputv Sheriff J. T. Murphy of'
Phoenix, who has twice Intervened
ar d avJ. U;e epptives from being j
sh'.t by the rorrtmund of Captain Sa-
lazar, stationed at Sasal e. No les-
personace than Colonel Oamargo, in
command oi constitutionalists lorces
In the Altar district, will take up the
matter of the transfer of the prison
er with General P. Elian Calles at
Aaiia Prleta tomorrow.
When shown a dispatch from Pres
cott tonlirbt, containing the theory
that the two men who killed Nelson
end Join Simpson near Senator.
Thursday, were the other two mem-1
In rs of the Huckeve band. Murphy
said, "I do not think so. The other,
two are right down on the border.
Tli'y- were in Tucson several day '
psc. We have high hopes of getting'
the m through the cooperation of the
yoldiers of General Oamargo." I
Mu-pby told an Interesting tale of i
the pursuit of Duarte and Gun-la andi
their arrest by a compuny of Salazar s
men rear Sasabe.
"Sheriff Adams. George Sears and
I followed the two down from Casa
Grande, through Santa Posa. San
Miguel and Into Mexico. Thev went
fuiohs the line by way of the Paso le
Pr.'somido. end we trailed them by
automobile. We were about two houi t
behind thm when Salazar's men
pi hm io
We had notified the Carranza sol
diers and the Patatros who were
looking out for Doarto and Garcia all
along the border.
'1 went over last night and had a
talk with the men. They admitted
belni; e the bank robbTv and said
they still hBd some of the monev.
Thev wouldn't talk about which had
fi'ed the shot that killed Charles
MWf. (
"They were to have been executed
BAITS DUART
FRENCH ROUT ENEM1
I VERDUN SECTOR
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Infantry fighting was resumed today on the eastbank of the Mi-use in
the Verdun sector. Which of the combatants assumed the offensive is not
known. During the previous night the Gernvan troops had undertaken no
counter attack to regain the ground they lost as the result of the stroke
inflicted by the French on Friday. Details concerning the French drive
indicate the capture of 9030 Germa.nsand about eighty guns. Four French
divisions participated in the attack, and the French war effice intimates
that they were opposed by five German divisions.
The Teutonic armies in Rumania continue to gain. A statement by
the German war office that the Buzeu river sector has been forced may
mear that the Teutons actually have crossed that river, alonq which it
had been expected the Rumanians would make their next stand.
In the vicinity of Ypres and Wytschaote German troops delivered an
rssault southeast of Zillebeko. penetratinq the second line.
A further advance of the British arrrv on the Tigris front in Meso
potamia within three-quarters of a mile of that river opposite Kut-EI-Amara
is recorded.
Revolutionary outbreaks in Portugal, accompanied by mutiny of some
troops, have been quelled.
Snow and Sleet
Make Operations
More Difficult
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PKPFF.R HIM.. Verdun Kront. Sat
urday. Dec. lti. (Via Chantiily from a
staff correspondent of the Associated
Press I. Snow and sleet fell through
out last evening rendering difficult fur
ther operations. The French staff's ex
amination of the German positions
captured demonstrated their formidable
nature and their high state of prepar
edness against assault.
Thirty (ierman deserters, who came
in before the battle began, testify that
the crown prince's army had knowledge
that an attack was about to be made
and were confident that they could
hold the ground, which during thelr
ntne months of occupation they had
strongly organized. They assert that
more Germans w ere desirous of desert
ing but that the strictest precautions
which has been taken and the nature
of the ground prevented from doing so.
The difficulties of the French ad
vance may be realized from the alti
tude of the hills which the troops were
ordered to take and succeeded In cap
turing. Pepper Hill, which is double
crested, is 1,122 feet high; Ixiuvemont
is 1,13s feet high, and another hill, un
named, behind, is 1,8x0 feet. The work
of the French aviators, like that of the
infantry, and artillerymen, was carried
out everywhere with almost indescrib
able daring. Dozens of .U.idrilUis of
airmen flitted about observing and cor
e ting the artiliery fire and arcom-
I panyintr the Infantry formations in
their advance, after which they fw
.rapidly back to headquarters with Je
I tailed reports, thus keeping the tom-
mander-in-chief in closest touch with
I the events.
The clearness of the atmosphere as
! Kisted the men greatly while the at
; tempts of the German's artillery fire
' to bring them down w-ere generally
abortive owing to the disorder among
the gunners brought about by the
quickness of the French advances.
I Hiring the entire day not a French
airman was killed. On the other hand
it is reported that they destroyed a
German observation balloon, which
probably accounts for a terrific burst
of flame toward noon, facing I)ouau
mont. The fort was the objective of
the German guns for hours but the
projectile did only slight damage.
DR. FPEEMAN IS ELECTED
tPeruhocan A. P. Leased Wire
ST. -fAI'U Minn., Io. IK Dr
i lonard Freeman of Denver, was
'elected prei!dent of tho WestTn Bur
! ftical Aso.lat'on at tbe closing ses
, sii.n of the twenty-sixth annual con
ivcnti m htie today. Omaha was se
lected as h 1917 convention ritv.
FATE CF
E
last night, but we had taken It up
with the authorities and Captain 8a
'azar very kindly consented to stay
ihe execution tint II wr could com
municate with Colonel Oamargo. Mr
Adams took the matter up with Oa
margo at .ogal-s and lie said he
could not act without Calles- consent
Colonel Ci'margo left this morning
for Acui F'rleta to nee Calles. and we
expect him back tomorrow morning
At that time, the n.en will either be
turned over to the sheriff at N'o
gales, Arizona, or sent out with a
f.t ng sotted.
"The Merican officers hnve been
very good to us, and it will '. with
their help If we get the other two
members of the sanjr. Ho'h Duarte
tnd Garcia are badly wanted in Mex
Icc. They have b-en rurnKg off
horses and cattle In small bunches on
bMh sides of the lire, for over l
vrir They are members of a land
of Villistas that has been operating
all throcgh the Altur district lately."
Murphy and Sears leave for Phoe
nix li.nmriow. Sheriff Adams will
remain on the border to complete ar-rar-ffi
ments for taking ihe pri.'-oneis
over If the ( rder -f General Calles
Is favorable.
AND
Simpson Killers May Be
Tivo of Buckeye Bandits
(Special to The Republican)
PRESCOTT, Dec. 16 The sher
iff's posse in pursuit of the two
unknown men who shot and killed
the Simpson brothers near here
yesterday, have not communicated
with headquarters, and little is
known of their whereabouts at
present.
It is presumed that the posse it
hot on the trail of the men, and
too busy to tend back word of thtir
operations.
There wat a rumor about town
today that on of tht two men, if
Third Smashing
Victory For French
Within 2 Months
fRepuN.'can A. P. Leased Wire
PKPPFP. Hll-L, Verdun Front. Fri
day, Dec. Ii (Via Chuntillv. Dec. 16)
(From a staff correspondent of Tne
Associated Press) A short, sharp
battle bro.ig! t to the French today
their third smashing victory within
two months In the vicinity of Verdun.
Kviry objective of the French com
manders was obair.cd.
Altl.fl-. ?h Cie Germans offered a
desperate defense the attack was so
powerful t.ere was no withstanding
it, with tho result that the Germans
v.crc pushed ;,ack 'ilong the line by
tbe French, v ho only c eased on or
ders when objevlhei had been
u ned.
Tl.'Hisr.nds of German prisoners
pcurcd into the French lines during
the dav ii' biding Z'i'i officers and ar?
still arr'vinu. The total count already
is ",5'-r. one division alone captured
m.ue than l.JOu Germans within an
hour. More Cian eighty cannon were
captured or destroyed.
The vi'lares of acheraiiville, Iou
veeiont an 1 Pesonvuux and liardau
nvmt wood now are in French hands
The f"-onl whs ten kilometers Ions
When "he fighting ceased, owing to
tf.o darkneta. the French advance had
exceeded in avtraue of three kilo
meters alcnir the whole fr( nt, at
various po nls rshini: further out.
The lattle began m lu o'clock In
the morning with ti e left flank of tho
1 u-'K .upiiOKUe Vachrrauville, and the
rl'ht flenk on Fort Vaux.
As the church clink .struck the
hojr, every French gun ojtened a
storm c f s'.cel. placing every shot im
mediately )-hitid '.he (ierman front
lint-. Mcanwt-.'le the French Infantry
mi.de one of its characteristic dashet
nd rem l ed Vam hcrauvllle. where
they drove the Germans from house
to house unl.l the village was en
tirely in their hands.
Advanclne beyond the viliase th"
French attacked a German trench
kr.own i,i "Bethmann's Howl" which
wis pierced t'T a hard fight and
Its o--upants mcde prisoners. Then
up t',e slojies of Pepper Hill the ln
fantiy men could ,je seen makinct
me'hodical progress until at exactly
an hour from the start the twin crests
of th s height had been swept clear
of Germans and the rockets an
nounced the French were establishea
there. In the meantime the Germans
on the opposing slopes had been taken
In the rear by an extemporized French
flank movment. The surprise Wai
so gre-t thai both the infantry men
and the gunners attempted to flee,
and French aviators turned the flight
into a rout by descending to within a
bundled jai of the earth and emp
tying banc" after band of machine
gun cartridges Into tne disorderly
crowd, of which those remaining alive,
st' rreedered.
Making their way ulong the valley
behlnl Pepper Hill, the French ap
ncare and took Louvemont with slrr.
iliir and untiring brilbance. In which
thev were supported by another
French wave that had fought Its way
throurh the entanglements of strong
ly ' fortifier field works. In Caurleres
wood, J 1st aboi-t the center (if the
line.
In front of the loiiamoi:nt the nd
vunce was equally rapid, but on the
rifcht flunk the forward movement en
countered strong opposition In Har-
ilaumont wood, which was not over-
come until iale in the afternoor whert
Tiesonvaux re.lonbt, annul five kllo
niters In advance of the original
Frenc h front line, waa taken from
the German garrison.
General Margin was again the prin
cipal orsanlzer of the victory In
which be followed his own example
at Douamriinf anil Fort Vaux by
delivering Irresistible blows at th
chief point Ln the Gel man lines and
hammering until his opponents were
forced to give ground. -Generals Nl
vrlle ?nd Pelaip watched the en-
sragement, n which ot.ly four French
divisions ii.rti Ipated. although It Is
known the Germans had five divisions
eniraced from eveiy regment of
which prisoners wer taken.
It Is retiorteil uiihoiit confirmation
that several divlsiotm which too part
;n the fU'litln" v, ere buerled from Ku
ma nn to rejoin the crown prince's
army and that they were among
those suffering defeat.
fContlnued on Page Two!
not both of them, woro members of
the band of Mexicans who took
part in the Buckeye bank robbery
and murder on December S. This
rumor it based on the fact that on
of th murderers of the Simpsons
wore a red sweater. A member of
the Buckeye gang wat garbed in a
tweater of that hue.
There are thirty men on th trail
of th murderers, all headed for
, th Bradshaws.the direction ttken .
by th fugitives. Th last heard
from th posse it waa riding along
th western slope of that range.
MANY PROBLEMS
DUE TU AHIbt
fRepublican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. Deo. Id. Frank A. Van
derllp, president of the National Ciij
bank of New York, addressing the
Chicago Hankeis' club loninht, varned
his auditors that the I'nited States
would have to meet economic una
social I'l'oi'leii'S as n result of the win
that would lax the inseni.iiy iin,i
resourcefulness or' the nation, aim
ci'lled upon bankers to prepare u
aid in the solution of bese problems
The belief that the fluted States
could proceed along its way nuaf
fected by the war and seeking onlv
to keep out of 11, he declared, seemed
not only a lack of imagination, bin
poorness, of vision, and a complete
failure to understand the unity of
the industrial commercial mid finaa-
lal world.
"L'nless 1 utterly nib-judge affairs.'
he said, "there nie g.ung to develop
for this country problems of th
gravest Importance pro'ilc rns Ilia
win need for their correct solution
the attention of the most cnlibtenec
minds.
"State socialism In Kurope mav de
velop problems i be like of wblcl
never concerned oar minds. We mn;
have to meet colle tive buying, state-
llded Industries, forms of govern
mental co-operation with busbies
quite outside our ranpe 'i f tliouqli:
Governmental conuc.l ct ((.u.-born-comnifrce
and novel factor.- In in
ternational finance woahl be fabject
for national conider.-i'inn. Ther
may come out of the war change in
foims of povernmc nt that will bave
profouiiil and world-vide influence.
Mr. Vandcrllp reviewed tbe result.
of the war in the I'nited States U'
to tbe piesent. the Kerens- in gold
sumilles. the devebipments of credits.
H discussed national leislaiior
with fc-deral reserve net an' t'e '
eral trade commission. Mentioning
th fcMiernl fi'lll 1o',n e0r,i .(, M-, ,
'Toe8 not the objec tion to the prin
ciple involved when governmental re
lations are tnjeeteel into business life
ouite as much with bankers as with
the legislators" Will we not a!way
find the people groping to do tbrougl
governmental agencies thlt.es that arc
left undone or are badly done by indi
vidual Initiative'.' .Must we not safe
guard the future from an unwise par
ticipation of government in business by
seeing that business Is so well con
ducted, so fairly administered. as
completely respocsiV to legitimate
needs that there will be r,o sound rea
son for government participation?
"Within a week I heard the repre
sentatives of four 'reat railway union?
state his views before a New York
club. To ray mind they were vlewp
that contained the essence of anarchy
We were told that we must not pas
certain laws Itecause tney would P'i' h
obeyed; we were given clear intima
tions regarding the power of these or
ganization, but there was not a hint
of their duty or responsibility to so
ciety. "I am hopeful that such 'utterances
do not voice truly the attitude of the
people of America nor of any great part
of organized labor, but they certainly
emphasize the need for a national
awaJtening to the end for sound think
ing on economic problems.
"It is easy to see that the unsound,
unwise, the wrong solution of the
problems that are pressing upon us will
Cost an Immeasurable sum of potential
wealth, of Individual happiness, and
national progress."
Mr. Vanderlip declared he believed
the federal reserve board bad ruled
unwisely In advising against Invest
ment by member banks in short term
obligation of the belligerent govern
ments. "I believe such action by the banks
would be wise from a strictly banking
viewpoint." he said. "Such an invest
ment would tend to restrict further
gold Importations, which may lead to
dangerous domestic inflation and
would provide credits which would be
Jietter than gold when eventually
these exchanges turned against us."
F0R6RAZING AND
WITHOUT M COST
fRepublican A. -. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. 1... All the
disputed points ln the Ferris bill to
provide 64(-acre homesteads, prln
cipally for grazing purposes, were
smoothed out today In conferences be
tween house and senate and the meas
ure goes to the president now for sig
nature. Many millions of acres of non-agricultural,
non-mineral, non-irrigable
land would lie opened to stock raising
homestead settlement under the bill
and It is regnrded as one of the most
important affecting the public domain
passed In many years. It probably will
become a law next week according to
the conferees. I'nder It the lands will
be open to anyone upon entry and three
years residence and improvement,
without any money payment whatever,
except ordinary filing fees.
Representative Ferris, author of the
measure, predicted 10,000 persons are
likely to go from each of a number of
middle' western slates to take up
homesteads.
A section to which administration
officials objected, authorizing those
already holding homesteads to pur
chase not exceeding 31!0 acres of con
tiguous stock-raising land at (1.25 an
acre, was stricken out ln order to pre
vent speculation. It would have per
mitted homesteaders to hold the addi
tion allowed without improvement.
The agreement provides that where
an applicant for stock-raising home
stead entry applies for entry before
the character of the land has been
officially designated, he will acquire no
rights against the government, al
though his rights will be good against
water entrymen. The purpose of this
was to prevent tielng; up hinds by en
trymen uttempting to estop the gov
ernment from making another classi
fication and requiring It to Institute
dispossession proceedings.
AFTER THE WAR
ivKLLIDNS IF ACRES
PEACE NOTES DUE IN
r aditaicdviwamiuv
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
The notes of the German, Austrian and Turkish governments proposing
peace negotiations are expected to reach the capitals of the entente powers
before Monday night. They were forwarded from Washington late Saturday
afternoon by cable and were not accompanied by any expression from the
United States government, but it is stated that President Wilson has re
serve opportunity to add a word for peace in some way in the future.
The transmission of the notes waa preceded by a visit by Count von
Bernstortf, the German ambassador, to Secretary of State Lansing, at the
conclusion of which the ambassador said they did not discuss peace terms
and that the sending of the proposal without comment on the part of the
United States government was a matter for this country to decide.
The note to the British government probably will be received in London
in time to be read before next Tuesday, when the premier, David Lloyd
George, was to appear before the house of commons, but it now appears
unlikely that his physicians will allow him to speak on that day.
Peace Proposals
Are Forwarded to
Their Destination
Republican A P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Inc. 16 The for
warding today of the Central Powers'
proposals for peace removed the ten
ter of interest in the jieace move to
tbe allied capitals, particularly Ijon-
doii. where the final attitude of the
entente iM expected to find expression.
With the announcement that the
proiohals had gone- forward to the
allied countries without any accom
panying comment by this government,
speculation here turned for the time
being from what President Wilson
would do in initiating neutral media
;ion to what Premier L.ioyd George
will declare to be the attitude of the
allied nations when be speaks on the
siihteet. probably next week, in par
liament. The three versions of the proposals,
differing slightly because of the trans
lations made in lierlin. Vienna and
Constantinople, were harmonized into
one official American translation, a
single copy of which was sent to each
of tbe American ambassadors and
ministers in the several Iwdligerent
countries where the Fnlted States rep
resents German. Austrian or Turkish
diplomatic Interests. The actual offi
cial texts probably will h forwarded
later in order to preclude any chance
of error or misinterpretation.
Whether any miukcsiioii or offer to
mediate will be made by the govern
ment until It Is understood unrnlstal
ildy that such action will be welcomed
bv both sides, remains undetermined,
but President Wilson Is known to Ice
anxious that the I'nited States shall
not Impair its usefulness aa a medi
ator of premature action.
The two-day delay while a uniform
translation of the peace notes was
helng prepared here may. In the belief
f some diplomats, constitute in itself
a hint to the belligerents of tne weigi.i
thai, is attached by American officials
to any peace proposal. In the same
niarters It is is.inted out that the delay
lay may .have had the effect of pre
venting a hasty or premature expres
sion by the allied nations. There has
been no suggestion, however, that
either of these considerations were fac
tors ln delaying transmission of the
communications.
The unanimous declaration of the
Russian duma, against the peace pro-IH-sal
aroused great interest here, par
ticularly in view of the many rumors
during the last few months hinting at
i possible separate peace for Kussia.
The Russian empire has been regarded
in some quarters as the keystone in the
peace situation, and information as to
the diplomatic struggle In progress
there is meagre. It is known, however,
that a semi-revolution has occurred
against the German elements in the
court and the bureaucracy and the
action of the council and the diima re
cently In acting together for the first
time in history is taken as an indica
tion of the great strengthening of the
anil-German party.
'i
A.
Republican A. P
Leased Wire1
Ni;W YORK. Dec. 16 To question
the power and imperative necessity of
the national government to malA- prep
aration for defmse "is little short of
treason." it was declared here today by
former Secretary of War Mndley M.
Harrison. In an address on National-
am' before the Lawyers' Club. After ,
-eviewlng the passage of many powers
md duties from the state govern
ments to the national government. In
the matter of preparedness, the cen
tral government "flinehed and faltered, j
and sought to pass its neglected duty
to the states." the result being "a la
mentable failure."
"From the viewpoint of the national
entity," Mr. Garrison said. "National
ism is the possession of and the exer
cise by the national government of ev
ery power and function necessary to
perform properly the collective duties
and to fulfill completely the collective
obligations of the nation. From the
viewpoint of the citizens nationalism
Is tbe yielding, not in theory but in
practice, of his mind, his heart, ami
'-Is spirit to the yvelfare of the nation,
the contribution of his material means
and his physical force to Its preserva
tion and defense. It means service and
sacrifice, devotion and loyalty."
One of the most dnngeroua senti
ments threatening the Integrity of the
nation, he said. Is that which "utilizes
the natural and universal abhorrence of
war as a reason for not preparing for
its possibilities."
"Self defense Is the cardinal duty of
a nation," he said. "Tho national-government
Is the only agency that can
mnke proper preparation. To deny Its
power or to question the Imperative
necessity of its exerting that power Is
little short of treason.
"This is a duty which the national
government has neglerted. In this par
ticular the modern tendency has been
reversed. The national government
flinched and faltered and sought to
pass Its neglected duty to the states.
IS TREASON TO QUESTION NEED
BF PREPARATION FDR DEFENS
Verdun Victory
Is French Reply
To Kaiser's Talk
fPepuillcan A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Dec. 16. The foreign of
fice announced before cdosing today
that it bad not yet received the peace
note and that state officials disclaimed
knowledge of its contents beyond what
the newspapers had published.
The French victory at Verdun Is ac
claimed by London papers as tho
French reply to the German emperor's
.speech to bis troops ln Alsace and
Chancellor von I'.ethmann-Hollweg's
claim of the invincibility of German
arms.
The opinions in the British press as
reflected in the latest editorials are
almost unanimous that the least the
government can do is to make a state
ment on the allies' aims and objects
or ask for the presentation of the
German terms.
The weekly reviews, including the
financial organs, take the Bame line,
as do also the provincial papers. The
only notable exception has been the
Northeliffe group which immediately
urged that Great Britain should Ignore
the overtures .
There appears to be a consensus of
opinion that the allies should not con
sider entering into a conference until
they know approximately the central
powers' policy and unless they con
sider that, that policy contains the
seeds for agreement. The Russian re
jection of the overtures was published
too late for comment by the" morning
Papers. All the afternoon papers re
fijiin from expressing their opinion
thereon.
Premier Lloyd George's first ap
pearance in the house of commons in
his new capacity of prime minister may
be delayed until the government is in
,a position to pronounce a definite
statement of its policy toward the
negotiations.
Sir Medley Le Baa, who is a retired
soldier, writes to the papers urging
that the men in the trenches have the
highest right to speak on the question
and that their view should be obtained
before any measures are decided upon.
Dispatehes from Switzerland say that
Count Tis7.a. the Hungarian premier,
has gone to Berlin to use his Influence
for peace.
Lloyd's Weekly News publishes spec
ially written statements on the subject
of the German peace offer by four
representative labor leaders Stephen
Walsh. M. P.. representative of the
I .nmiuliira Minora- Jumes (VHrailv.
! chairman of the General Federation of
Trades 1'nlons; C. B. Stanton. M. P. for
I Merthyr Tydfil, and Lieutenant Colonel
I John Ward, commander of the Navies
I battalion. All declare that the war
! must continue until the conditions laid
down by Premiers Asquith and Lloyd
- George are achieved, but Walsh ln ad
dition contends that the entente allies
: should take the opportunity to make
; their position clear before the world.
(Continued on Page Two)
E
The result was and was bound to be
a lamentable failure"
Jlr. Garrison went on to speak for
the avoidance by the Fniled States of
European entanglements, saying that
any proposition which requires
country to enter an alliance with the
i other nations of the world "and to en
gage to Join with those who side with
i the belligerent forind to be righteous
against the belligerent found to be
, wrongful, should be tested in the fiery
i furnace of fierce debate and discussion
before It should be acted upon."
"If the I'nited States." lie said, "en
gaged as has been suggested in a uni
versal alliance, "she is perforce a par
tv to every quarrel the wide vvoHd
over no acceptable reason occurs to me
which warrants or Justifies the I'nited
Stales in becoming by Us own volun
tary act a party to ail the quarrels of
all the nations of the earth."
Germany May Modify v
Her Deportation Policy
Republican A. P. Leased Wire '
WASHINGTON. Dec. 16. While the
diplomatic controversy with Germany i
over Belrian deportations temporarily
is ln soeyanco, officials are watching '
carefnlly for any indication of a
softening of the German attitude as.
a result of the protests of the Cnitecl -Stetfca,
Spain, Midland. Switzerland
and the va'ican. It would occasion no
surprise hre if the German policy,
vvre quietly modified, despite the
government's declaration that the
measures taken were necessary and
in accordance with International law
It has been indicated that this gov- ;
ernment's course would be determined
by pubiic opinion as It crystulizes,
BIS AND.SIEL
PUBLISHERS IN
SEBIODS CLASH
4
nrubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
; WASHINGTON. Dec. 15. A con
j flict of interest between largo and
small newspaper publishers developed
i at conference today between the fed-
eral trade commission, the publishers
and news print paper manufacturers
and Jobbers, held to consider a pro
posal that the problem of an appar
ent news print shortage be solved t ;,
! distributien of the available supply mi
lder supervision of the commission ani
to work out some arrangement if pos
sible concerning prices and increase!
j production.
j A plan propcised and apparent!
favored by the trade commission, tin
manufacturers and the small publish
ers, under which large publishers would
relinquish five tier cent of their lie 1 7
quota to the smaller publishers met
oii iiiuiiuidii; uiijiuMinui. i ne iai pp
publisher declared they were betn.r
made the victims of manufacturers
. who by diverting machines now on wa''
iirmking new print could solve the
.shortage problem within a few davs
j Both large and small publishers in
sisted that the plan called for no con
cessions by the manufacturers.
The plan proposed would provicb
that the five per cent turned back I -the
large establishments would be aj.
portioned among the small publish'1
at the average contract price chnepe
the large publishers. This would b
between three and four cents a po-n :
The jobber would receive in a cl J j t ; c r
about one per cent for handling.
committees of the publishers, ma'
ufacturers and Jobbers were named to
continue conferences with the trade
commission next week in an effort
either to perfect the plan proposed o
'to work out some other acceptall
plan. The publishers' committee wi'
; begin Monday to send out question.!'
ies to the newspapers, ascertaining t
needs of the small publications a-
learning if the large, publishers wii'
agree to give up a part of their paper
In today's meeting the large publish -f-rs
argued that an increase in produc
tion wou'.d be a simple matter if the
manufacturers displayed a willingness
' to cooperate. In this they were sup
ported by the small publishers, poth
classes of publishers too, insisted that
prices were beyond reason, and ass ir
ance was given by the trade commis
sion that perfecting of any distribu
tion plan would not stop the onmmis
' sion's investigation of that subject.
cuiiiuii5iiiner uavies declared th'i
commission was of the opinion that
print pa tier was a public necessity and
that prices now charged for it were ex
tortionate. On the committee of publishers to
meet next week, with the trade com
mission. F. P. Glass and U 11. Palmer
were named to represent the large pub.
lishers. and A. W. Dunn and J. i;
Hoover to represent the small publish
ers. Manufacturers wiil be reorsepi
by J. B. Potter and A. T. Houck. The
jobbers will name a committee latei.
It was brought out today that al
though the cost of production as dis
closed by the trade commission's in
vestigationhas remained about sta
tionary, prices to the large publisher
have advanced from 2.15 cents a pound
on lslS contracts to an arerace of 3.M
Tor 1 fl 7 contracts, with an added item
In that mills next year quote price a'
the factories Instead of at the p'.a.f of
delivery-. A prospectus issued by on.
manufacturing concern was present
to show that the manufacturer endeav oring
to sell stock in his mill, cla.m
a profit of 115 a ton on paper manufac
tured this year in addition to a suipb
accumulated.
Manufacturers opposed every s-j.-gestion
today that production" be ii'
creased bv putting on news print wot ',
machines that now are turning out o:i.
er classes of paper.
Tho committee representing t
smaller publishers Issued a tiatenn
tonight saying its members were h
ful that the trade commission an
those concerned wc-e about to f n,1
solution of the situation.
HAVANA RAILROADERS STRIKE
fRenubticfn A. P. Leased Wir-'
HAVANA. Cuba. Dec. 16. A general
strike of the employes of the Havana
Central railway began today. Com
plete tying up of the line which cor.
nects most of the important towns of
Havana province with the capital was
effected. The railway company' also
furnishes electric current for power ami
iignung purposes ln a score of towns.
most Of 11rhi,h 11-ACA in W..KI,. ..
'night. The men employed in operatinc
,.,. r -
m rn . f orr ' earners across
i, .? 'J ,h. icei? asa"
VJ l1
. r,H ri "J.
also presented demands
wages.
FOR STATE OWNED MILLS
frer.isilron A P Leased Wlrel
ST. PAUL, Dec. lfi. Attorney Gen
eral Lyndon A. Smith began drafting
a bill for introduction in the next leg
islature providing establishment of
state owned paper mills on state timber
lands, following the couclusion that
the situation as to the 1917 supply of
print paper is so serious as to threaten
discontinuance of many ilinesota in
dustries. 'nt there are
the practices
continued, ite
not be pres
think flat if
decided upon
Indications that Rhou'u
complained of be dis
Amcrican protect would
ed further. Officials
a discontinuation were
the decision would lie
put Into effect quietly and probably
would not be accompanied by a public
announcement or any diplomatic as
surances that might seem to represent
a recession from the stand Germany
already has taken.
Should the state department's In
formation during the next few weeks
Indicate, however, that the deporta
tlcns nre continuing unchecked It is
not unlikely that some further ste i
might be decided upon to emphasize
the American protest.
