THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudy to-day; to-morrow fair:
moderate to fresh southwest winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 74; lowest, 61.
Detailed weather, mnll and marine reports on page 10
IT SHINES FOfc ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 292.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, JUNE 18, 1916 . Copyright, 1916, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
64 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
Jstm.
RUSSIANS ONLY
SIX MILES FROM
BRODY, GAL1CIA
Two German Armies Battle
In Effort to Snve Aus
trian Front.
3IUSCOVITES PUSH
OX TOWARD LEMBERG
E i 1 1 1 rhtm ft ........ X 0 . . ..
i ' ' ' " '.. . - . ......... . " .n. Jl ' .
London, June 1", The Russian rmy
which aavancwg aowii me railway
from Dubno In the direction of Lem
pers has occupied Hadzlwllow, close to
the Oillcian frontier, according to the
elflcUl statement Issued In Petrograd to
U. Radzlwllow Is only six miles from
Brod.v, the Important frontier town on
tU rljlli'luii side of the hnrtlee. anil In
sixty miles northeast of Lemberg. the I
objective or the Russians operating in
this legion.
two vierman armies wiucn nave none (
to the assistance or I lie Austruns. mat
of den. von Llnstngen In the region of.
the Stochod and Styr rivers, to the west .
ef Lutzk. and that c.' C.en. Count on
Bnthmer. to the north of Przewloka. are
engaged with the Russians, the Herlln ,
war Office announced. No information
regarding the results of this fighting
Is contained In the German statement
and It Is presumed that both battles
are still In progress.
The heaviest fighting In progress ap-,
rears to be In VolhynU, wnere tne uer
mans and Austrlans are cooperating.
Here the combined Teutonic armies are
making a stand about Lokatschl, thirty
miles west of Lutsk, and between thej
stochod and htyr.
Russians Cross the Str.
Russian advances are announced cm
the Styr and on the Stochod In Volhynla.
In the first of these, west of Kolkl. on
.1. .. ih. Hussions crossed the river
to thenorthcrn bank and took &00 prls- .
eners. This engagement was brought on .
by the Austrlans, who attacaeo in me
region of Gudomllche. They were re
pulsed, and the Russians made a suc
cessful counter attack.
The town of Swldnlk. on the Stochod,
noithwcst of ftoshlshtshe, has been oc
cupied, S00 German prisoner? being be
ing taken here. Two Austrian com
panies were sabred by Russian hussars.
& itatAnnlnil Auvfrtuii counter offen-
ive to save Litnberg Is announced hy
the Russian War Office to-night. For i
this offensive troops nave wen iiiougiu
from the other fronts.
Thf llnsalan Report.
The official statement Issued by the
Russian War Office to-night follows
In order to arrest our advance on
lmberg the Austrlans. strengthened
by elements brought from the other
battle f routs, an- furiously attacking
Gen. itruslloff's troops at many points.
West of Kolkl. on the Styr, on Fri
day evening the Austrlans under our
heavy artillery III e began an offensive
in the region of Gndomltche. Their
attack was tepulscd, our troops pene
trating to the northern bank of the
Styr and making prisoners fifteen offi
cers and eight hundred men.
On the Stochod, northwest of Kosh
Ishtshe. Siberians commanded by Col.
Klslylsc capturcil Swldnlk, making
prisoners four officers and eight hun
dred men. Hussars of White Russia,
Mipported by horse artillery, charged
through three extended enemy lines,
saining two Austrian companies.
our cavalry at noon yesterday oc.
ruplid Radzlwllow, after dislodging
the Austrlans, whom It continued to
drive luck upon Hrody (northeast of
lumber I.
The Austrlans were driven out of
FUiyi, Movi and I'otchaleff. as well
as fiotn the old convent of I'otchaleff,
and both places were occupied by our
troop- yesterday.
The Austrian Report.
The following official statement wan
bsued hy the Austrian War Office to
nlsht .
n the Pruth there were no Inci
dents of Importance.
North of Nlezwiska Russian at
tempts to cross the Dniester failed,
l'nemy attacks west of Wlsnlowczyk
continue.
In Volhynla there was bitter fight
ing on the Htrypa, about Lokatschl
stid In the Stochod-Styr sectors.
A wireless message received here to
day from Hern quotes despatches from
Austrian sources as saying that the
Jtusilan offensive has been renewed after
if temporary pause with Increased fury.
An Incessant rain of sheila is falling,
even thicker than In the early days of
the offensive, on the Austrian trenches,
an 'I the Russian ammunition supply ap
pears to be Inexhaustible. Heavy guns
have been brought up, the despatch say,
and huge Russian reenforcements have
appeared near Torchln, west of Lutzk, In
the .Stochod-Styr district, and near Horo
denka, between the Dniester and the
Pruth.
Cnoffirlal despatches from Petrograd
say that the Austrian army is retreating
In disorder from the region of Czerno
iti after losing heavily In violent en
gagements three miles from the city.
Ths RuflHinn cavalry, which has played
on important. part In the present drive
l mid to be harrying the Austrlans
ontlnually, turning the retreat Into a
mm i.'rernowltz Is still held by the
AiMrlans, according to these despatches.
The rapture of Lutzk appear to have
tim In the nature of a surprise, In
"ilte of rumors which reached the city
in Hie morning before the Russians ar
r'd It was not until evening, when
the sound of the arlillury was becoming
clearer to those n the city, that the
IwiKcr was realized. Then there, was
rush to evacuate the place. The
streets ere filled with transports, herds
of cutis and baggage wagons. Two
'"iipanies or Austrlans guarding a
transport column were captured by the
.man utivance guard us it entered
tn clly,
Ituaslnn (lam Powerful.
The power of the Russian artillery In
U.e present offensle I it indicated by
reports of the taking of Jaroslawlcz, be.
teen Dubno and I.utzk. Here the Aus
trlHi) batlerle sought to hold back the
us ans, but ft ere soon silenced by the
Ilimlan artillery. While the Ruislan
nMntry was taking the first Austrian
line the artillery behind It threw out'
- tmrrage tire which prevented the Aus
trian reserves from coming up In sup
port. Thin rlr.r u. ......
urge number of t loops, in contrast
Cenlpiued on fourth Pagt.
MRS. JOHN JACOB ASTOR TO
BECOME BRIDE OF W. K. DICK
Ceremony Will Be Performed in Bar Harbor Bride
groom Is a Banker, Member of an Old Sugar Re
fining Family and Girlhood Friend of Bride.
, . - l I
i w
IIIA 4IP ilLo : .-
wm I
msi- 'i m i asaBagaaMBg
iiliHW Ml II I i i I III l
I'noto by Hief!.
William K. Dick and Mrs. Madeleine Force Astor.
Mis. Madeleine Force Astor, widow of Company, the German Savings Hank, thrj
Col. John Jacob Astor. who lost his life, '-akc Charles Milling Company, the Cltl
i. .u , ., . . reti'a Water Supply Company and the
in the Titanic disaster four years ago. ( Comm,ri.la, si0 ulank of u,
Is soon to be married to William K. Dick, i uumi city His clubs are the Metro-vice-president
of the Manufacturers i polltan, Hankers, Piping Rock, Meadow-
I'noto by Hlefsn.
Trust Company and member of a family
long ldentltlel with the sugnr refining In
dustr It Is believed that the cere
mony will take place In Itar Harbor, Me
Mrs. Astor Is 2i J ears old and Mr.
Dick Is 2 They were boy and girl
'friends when the two families were liv
ing In Brookljn years ago. They are
ttalif to have beeu engaged for two
months, but so closelv did they guard
their secret that even Intimate friends
expressed surprise when thty learned of
the wedding plans last night.
Mrs. Astor, accompanied by her son.
John Jacob Aslor, no nearly 4 years
old, left for liar Harbor Thursday. Mr.
Dick had preceded her there. The bride,
It Ih understood, ll be unattended at
the marrliiKc ceremony, but her mother,
Mrs. William H. Force, and her younger
sitter, Miss Katherlne Force, will be
present. Mr. and Mrs. Force and Miss
Force left foV li.ir Harlor last night.
The ceienmny will be witnessed also
by the bridegroom's parents, Mr. and
Mis. J. Harry Dick, his sisters, Mrs.
Horace H.wemeyer ajid Mix. Klngsley
Macy, with their husbands: Seth Barton
Flench. Lyman N. Mine and W. Scott
I'yle. Mr Dick's brother. Adolph M.
Dick, ulll h best maii.
To-morrow. It Is reported, was orlgl
nally et as the wedding day, but
eit.i ted less than two years ago will 1
make a postpon-ment of at least five!
days neeess.iry. l.'nder this act residents
of another State who go to Maine to b
married mut wait live days after apply
ing for a license before receiving the
document. A despatch from Bar Harbor
last night said that Mrs. Astor, who la
at Islecote, her summer home, dec'lned
to discuss her plans.
The couple will go west on a honey,
moon trip, returning In a month to a
cottage at Allen Wlndcii, the Dick coun
try place at Isllp, L. 1. They will
open a city home In Manhattan later.
Ilrlde Make a Sacrlflcr.
Hy her marriage Mrs. Astor will re.
llnqulsh vovsesion of the Astor maimioii
at the northeast corner of Fifth avenu
and Sixty-fifth street, as well as thn
Income on lu.OOn.OOO which Col. Actor
set anlde for her In his w 111, to be
held as long a" she should remain
slnsle. These will revert to William
Vincent Actor, Col. Astor'H son by his
firt marrl.iM". to whom the bulk of the
$s7,on0,uoi) estate was left. William
Vincent Astor Is about two years younger
than his Mepmotlier. It Is assumed that
he and Mrs. Aslor, who was Helen Dins
more Huntington, will occupy the man
sion. Col, Astor ni.n cre.it.-d a trust fund
of 3,onn,non for any child who might
be born after his death. The present
John Jacob Astor was bom four months)
after his father was dronned. The
mother Is to be the cuardlan of the child
during his minority, but If ho dies be
fore reaching the age of 21 this fund
also Is to go to William Vincent Astor.
William K. Dick lives with his par
ents at 2D Kast Flfty-thlnl street. Ho
has a fortune of between 2,000,000 and
13,000,000, Inherited from his grand
father, William Dick, one of the pioneer
sugar refiners of the country. Facilities
which he built line the Williamsburg
waterfront. William Dick also organ
ized and was president of the Manu
facturers Bank, now the Manufacturers
Trust Company of which William K.
Dick Is vice-president and director.
William K. Dick lit also vice-president
of the Robert Chapman Company, the
McKee Refrigerator Company and Rlg
ney & Co., candy manufacturers. He la
a director of the Broadway Trust Com
pany, the Ill-Products Reclaiming Cor.
poratlon, the Cord Meyer Development
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF EIGHT SECTIONS, AS FOLLOWS:
FIRST
SECOND
THIRD
FOURTH
General Newi
Sporting. Kcnneli, Automobile!
Newi of the Reiorti, Drami,
Pictorial Magazine
Phototravure of Charlti Evani
FIFTH
SIXTH Pftparednen Supplement
SEVENTH Special Featurei, Booki. Queriei. Chen
EIGHTH Foreign. Real Eatate. Cardeni, Poultry. Financial, Problem!
Total
Rtaim or ntieiitolm uho it mt ttultt til ef that tuUtnt uill tonftr t ftfr
n "Th Sun" hi nttlfylni Ma Publication Dtpattmtnt at one ty tk phom
(2100 Bnkmtn) ani mluint Mcfoni ulll k promptly foruarM If poulilt.
Hropk. Raciitiet nnd Riding, and he Is
pany of Brooklyn.
Mr. Dick's mother was Miss Julia
Theodora Mollenhauer, a daughter of
John Mollenhauer, who also wua prom
inently Identified with the sugar Indus
try. Through the marriage of William
K. Diclfs sister, Doris, to Horace Have-
meer. son of the late Henry t. avc-
meyer. on January Sti, 1911, an alliance
wan formed with another great sugar
family. His other sister, Julia, was
married October 3, 1912, to William
Kingsland Macy, son of Mr. and Mrs.
George H. Macy of Manhattan.
Col. Astnr'a Romance.
Madeleine Force was In her twentieth
ear and Col. Antnr was 47 when their
engagement was announced by Miss
Force's parents. Mr. and Mrs. William
H. Force, on August 1911. Th an
nouncement created a decided Htlr In
social circles and Interest In the matrh
was Intensified by the fact that only
sixteen months previously the Colonel's
first wife. Mrs. Ava Willing Astor. had
obtalne.1 ' divorce.
An Inteiestlng story of the first meet
Ing of Col. Astor anil Miss Forte has
breii told. It was said that In August, '
t'.MO, Col. AMor and his sou went to
Newport on thn yacht Noma and when
thuy went nshoie they learned that the
' first Mrs. Ator was In town. Tncy de
a law ., j i . i . .n . i .. . i, i .. i
i i v. . 1 1 nui lu iriii.iiii tunc, ..nil n ,t-w o
later made a trip to Bar Harbor. While
strolling past a tennis court on the day
after their arrival they chanced to see
the Mlstes Midelelne nnd Katherlne
Foice at play, and Col, Astor, much Im
pressed with Mis Madeleine, lost no time
In seeking an Introduction, mint very
afternoon the father and son played
tennis, and Ml-s Madeleine was Col.
Astor's partner In the gume against .his
son and Miss Katherlne
At that time Miss Force had not long
been out of Miss Spence's School. Her
mother was .Miss Katherlne Arvllla Tal-'.Mr. Hughes. Tho New York Progres
mage, daughter of T. V. P, T.ilmage and nlves who met at the Manhattan Hotel
granddaughter of Thomas G, Talmage, on Thursday want the national commit
who was Mayor of Brooklj n In 1813, 'tee to leave the Presidential choice to
Both the Astor and Force families he- their own discretion as between Hughes
longed to the episcopal church, but when anil Wilson If no substitution Is made
clergymen of that denomination were mi the Progressive ticket for Col. Roose
.ikkeil to perform the marriage cere-1 velt,
mony there aiose an ecclesiastical storm. Political observers who saw beneath
Dr. George Chalmers Richmond In a the surface of the Whitman-Perkins
statement called on the church to tefusc meetings on Friday regarded the con
to sanction the contemplated marrlago ferences as an effort on the part of
because Col. Astor had been divorced. I Gov. Whitman to Insure Progressive
The Rev. Wii'lam Sheafe Chase, rector nupport for himself In the State cant
or O.nrLst Chuieh. Brooklyn. Indorsed palgn, as well as to bring to Mr. Hughes
this statement, and for the Catholics the support of .the Progressives through
Father F.vers declared that the alliance out the nation. Mr. Whitman expects to
was a cilme aalnst society. i he renominated, but he realizes that the
The Rev. .Lewis Ihooks, a Baptist,
and the Rev Kdward Johnson, a Metho
dist, each refused a fee of $1,000, It was
said, to perform the ceremony In Rhode
Island. I'ndeterred In his purpose, Col,
ARtor searched thiougliout New Kng
lund for a willing clergyman and on
September '9 the marriage took place at
Beechwood, the Astor villa at Newport,
the Rev, Joseph Lambert, pastor of the
Klmwood Temple Congregational Church
of Providence, performing the ceremony,
Hnlf an hour after the ceremony Col.
Astor and his bride went aboard the
yacht Noma In the harbor and started
for FcrncHff, the Astor estate at Rhine.
cUff-on-the-Hiidsoti, whetn they passed
their honeymoon.
The wedding wan solemnized at 10
o'clock In the morning !n the ballroom
at Beechwood, the scene of many a
brilliant fete In the daya when the Colo
nel's mother was the urblter of New York
society. Miss Katherlne Force was the
bridesmaid and William Vincent Astor
stood with his father. As the Colonel
was leaving with hiss bride he said:
"Now that we arc happily mairled I
Continued on Kleventh Page.
I'lin.
: : : '.
Fuhiont, Schooli, , .
12
...
Huchea .
8
8
6
8
64
!
. ...... . ...... '. ., ,..i, . .
PERKINS INDICATES
PEACE WITH G. 0. P.
Gives Out First Official Word
After Conference With
Col. Roosevelt.
SILENT ABOUT DETAILS
Onv. Johnson nnd Hayniond
Robins Discuss Situation
With Moose Chief.
George W Perkins, who has leen a !
sort of minister plenipotentiary for Col.
Theodore Roosevelt In the recent con
ferences with Gov. Whitman, represent
ing the Repubtlom Presidential nominee,
Charles E. Hughes, confirmed last night
the belief that peace between the Pro
gressives at least that part of the or- ,
sanlzatlon which the Colonel can con-1
trol and the Republican party will be i
arranged In the Immediate future. Mr? '
Perkins's brief statement uas the first 1
official word that emanated from his
negotiations with Gov, Whitman.
"You may say this," Mr. Perkins
told a reporter for The Pun. "The gen
eral efforts that have been made for
some time panj looking toward a getting
together of both parties for the common
cause are progressing satisfactorily."
He would not be pressed for further
details as to how. when or where the
peace terms will be formulated, but It
was obvious that Mr. Perkins's long'
cherished desire to get back In the Re
publican fold Is approaching realization.
He had Just returned from a long talk
with Col. Roosevelt, who, during the
day had seen Gov. Hiram Johnson of
California and Raymond Robins of Illi
nois, chairman of the recent Progressive
national convention. Gov. Johnson and
Mr. Robins do not represent the con
servative wing of the Bull Moose party.
Looks l.lkr "MovliiK l."
Mr. Perkins spent a large part of
the day at Progressive headquarters,
which, by the way, save every Indica
tion of "moving day." Letter filer books
and other office paraphernalia were
heaped high on desks and tables as
though ready to be carted away, and
general disorder adequately described
the scene. John W McGr.uh was there
with Mr. Perkins for several hours, but
at that time neither would say a word
aliout the peace negotiation
loiter no secret was made of the fact
that the Perkins-Whitman conferences
were held In the Interests of harmony
between the Progressives anil the Re-
publlcan. whm Mr. Prrkm was .. J
b t le .. conferences" he re-
piled that there had heen a good many
during the last week looking toward
that end. It Is understood, however,
that the word which Mr. Perkins brought
to the Colonel from Mr. Hughes through
Gov. Whitman after three meetings with
the Governor, one of them Jut before
midnight on Friday, aided materially In
easing the return of the Colonel and his
party.
It was stated positively on behalf of
tho Colonel that his expected statement
In support of Mr. Hughes's candidacy
would not be made before the meeting
of tho Progressive national committee
In Chicago a week from to-morrow.
Then his pronouncement will be In tho
form of a statement to thn committee.
Furthermore, a meeting between the
Colonel and Mr. Hughes Is not likely to
occur before that time. Mr. Perkins
would say nothing on that subject.
.. .... ....
rf rm .... . .. .. k
The Colonel and Mr. Perkins. It Is
believed, will make every effort to bring
the members of the Progressive national
committee to their way of thinking,
namely, that It Is fitting to swing tho
party's support to the Republican nom
inee. The Colonel's anticipated an
nouncement In support of Hughes will
probably antedate the notification
speech of the Republican nominee.
What the rank and file of the Pro
gressives will do is problematical. If
many of them take the view that the
New York county Progressives have
taken the Colonel will notbe able to
uu.lt, t Ih. .nllrn ll.n.Madi'a alrnr. irll. . f
campaign from every point of view will
probably be close and hard fought, and
he desires to muster all the strength
possible In his own cohorts.
RAIN BRINGS AUTO MISHAPS.
Three Overlurneili One Wrecked
and Fifth Crashes Into Tree.
Ckoar Grovb, N. J., June 17. Three
automobiles were overturned, another
was wrecked, a fifth left the roadway
and crashed Into a wood and one man
suffered a hroken arm In accidents on
the Pompton turnpike, In and near Cedar
Grove In the pnst twenty-four hours.
All the mishaps were caused, It was
alleged, hy the slippery condition of tho
pavement, made worse by the rainfall.
A furniture van, driven by W II. Knt
nor of Haskell, skidded and overturned.
Kentnor's left arm was fractured, He
was admitted to Mountainside Hospital,
Muntclalr.
LOSES HER $30,000 PENDANT.
Mrs. Williams Met! raw of it
York, the Owner. Appeals to Police.
Pmi.APKl.riiiA, June IS. An ailver
i linemen t appears In Philadelphia Sunday
morning papers for a pendant contain
ing 500 diamonds set III a field of em
eralds and pearls and valued at 130,000,
The loss waa reported to Police Head
, quarters, but no trace of the missing
I Jewelry had been discovered.
i Reports from Atlantic City said the
i owner of the pendant was Mrs. Williams
McOraw of New York, a cottager at
102 Houth Vassar Square, Chelsea. Mrs.
McOraw lmd the pendant with her when
she started for Atlantic City yester
day. It was missing when she slipped
from the train here on the way to
the resort, The pendant was bought
In Paris.
I-AIN'H FIRKWORK
for Ih fourth.
OKDEK KAHbV.
It Park Place. AH,
U. S. TROOPS CROSS BORDER,
BATTLE WITH THE MEXICANS;
PERSHING REPLIES TO TREVINO
BAKER CONFERS
ON CRISIS WITH
THE PRESIDENT
Discuss Now Trouble at
Brownsville and Per
shing Kepl.v.
WILSON WILL THY TO
AYOII) IXTKKYKXTIOX
Pershing Short and Sharp
in Hit Reply to Trevino
Kl Paho, Te.., June 17. A letter
received here to-night from Celum
bua Rives the following n.s the text
of Gen. Pershlns's reply to Gen.
Trevino:
"I have, not received orders to re
main stationary or to withdraw.
If I -ee tit to send troops In pursuit
of bandits to the south, east or west
in keeping with the object of this
expedition I will do so.
"If any attack Is made on any
part of my forces while performing
such duties the entire military
strength of tho expedition will Is;
used ngalnst the attacking force.
"Gen. Trevino. as commander In
chief of the de facto troops In the
north, will be held responsible for
Mexican forces within striking dls
t ince.M of American forces."
Washington-. June 17. While Sec
rwary of War Raker was in confer
ence with the President to-nlsht n re
port was received of serious fightlnir
between American nnd Mexican forces
on the Mexican side of the border near
Brownsville, Tex.
The official report stated that fol
lowing the clash earlier to-day be
tween Americans nnd Mexicans at
Sun Benito, Tex., Col. Bullurd, who
commanded the American force, sent (
Lieut. A. I). Newman with a small
force In pursuit with instructions to
pick up the trail of tho retiring Mexi
cans'. Tho trail wns found, and, acco'dlns
to the despatch from Gen. Funston, I
was being followed across the border
with every antlcliMtlnn of a tight.
Fifty bandits, according to the des
patch, comprised the Mexican force
when It crosxed, the river Into Mexico.
Secretary Baker had gone to see the
President for the purpose of layin.:
liefore him the official report of the ex
change of notes between Gen. Per
shing and Gen. Trevino, the Mexican
military commander In northern Mex
ico. Despite the Indications of Secretary
Baker that no order has Is'eli Issu'.il
for additional troops on the border It leans are s.Ud to have ,'iO.oort, or ap
was declared to-night In other Ad-' proximately the total strength of the
ministration quarters that the ITesI- Anierlenn forces both III .Mexico and
dent is prepared to despatch more aid prVi" Uoriliy nur rom,.? I'.-rsll UiKotv VlVr.'o
and to call out the rest of the .a- , , forl of u u.Pr v
tlonal uunrcl ir v..en. r uiision so rec -
ommends.
Gen. Pershing replied. It Is under
stood, that he did not recognize Tre
vino as one from whom he was to
take orders concerning the movement
of his troops, although Secretary Ba
ker has refused to make public the
text of the cominuiilcutlons exchanged.
Will 't Give Plain.
Secietary Baker denied that Gen.
Funston had reported that he expected
tioiible at all points alon the border to
right, but lie refused to say whether he
or Gen. Pershing had asked for rcen
forcc inents, or whether more troops were
to be Kent across at Brownsville to re
enforce the American troops sent out In
1 pursuit of the San Benito raiders.
i The Secretary said tie did not have
I "In Immediate contemplation" tho calling
' ... .. ...I.IHUnnl VT..l..n..l f . . P A - -
IOUl Ol llll) iuiiiiiiuu.ii ,ii,,iiiii,i wuaiun
. nr ih.. nrderlnz of anv more renu.
lars to the border.
( Regarding the exchanges between Gen.
Pershing and Gen, Trevino Secretary
I Baker said "I do nm anticipate any
I Immediate trouble from this situation."
I Officials of the War Department, lack-
Ing full details of to-night's develop.
ments near Brownsville, are unable to
' inilirn whether thev resulted fiom the
I threats contained In the Trevino com
munication. At the same time Secretary
! Baker Indicated rather positively that in
connequence of the Mexican commander s
threats theio has been no change what
ever In the orders to Gen. Funston, widen
are to ptotect the border and to pursue
liny force that Invades American ter
ritory. Ho further Indicated that Gen. Persh
ing's orders are unchanged, although It
Is leaarded as probable here that Persh
ing will do nothing to provoke a clash.
Officials here are inoio than ever con
vinced that the Mexicans engaged In the
recent raids are Carranza soldiers and
art operating with the deliberate pur
pose of Inviting trouble between the two
countries.
Reporting further details of the fight
between American tioops and Mexicans
at San Ignaclo on June If Major Gray,
who commanded the America ntioops
stated to-day that on the body of one
of the Mexicans killed wore papers bear
ing the stamp of the Carranza Govern
mint and Identifying the dead Mexican
as Major Cruz Ruiz of thf Carranza
at my.
A imper taken from the blouse of an
other Mexican victim showed him to
huve been a Lieutenant lu the Carranza
nimy a late us May, 1U. Major Oray
i
r
Copyright by rmjrwooil & L'nilerwoo.J,
l fJEN. JOHN J. PERSUING, "the
aMHatttBaatMa
MalMHaaaaHS
rC9aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaP9l7.
JJSa- -WiBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBMBBBBBBWBl ' B
. fcg: BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBm3C7 M V
'bbbbI0CbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbB9!M
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbPmbIbIbbMbb
,s'f' 3Rb1?LbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbmbbbbbK
aBBBt?aBBBBW BBBBBVBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBkBBBW :BIBBBBBBBb!
bbbbbbbBbbbbWTkIMbbbbbbbbbbbbbbV'''
IBSM&THZ.-L BBBBt!aBBBBBBRiliPilliliBBl
tEiEmKSRtr . "bbHHbbbbbbbb!
headquarters are at Colonia Dublan.
ftirth,.r i-uimrl...l (I,.. n,tt,ir. ,if .i jin.iTi.
tlty of soft nosed rlllu cartridges, all of
v hlch wi're of American manuf.u'tiiie
Apparently President Wilson, despite
to-day's developments as reported to
him by Secretary Baker to-night, W still
dt tenulued to take no action which will
provoke hostilities between the two Gov
ernments. Ills desire to avoid this Is
believed to be responsible for Ills failure
to-night to authorize the calling out of
aiiv more militia.
Gen. Pershing's force at the present
tlm Is flanked on
cither side by all
overwhelming number of Mexican ol
filers. To his force of lt.ooft the Mex
, ix iidlng develoimu-nts the American
reply to the Carrnnza mite Is again
being delayed and from present Indica
tions will not go forward before Mon
day. It Is probable that In view of the
happenings of the last few days the nolo
will be changed III regard to certain
minor features. Officials Htlll Insist that
It Is a II. it refusal of Carranza's demand
1 f,,r
withdrawal of the American
, forces.
Aimy "Ulcers here ale convinced that
I the question of general Intervention is
only a question of a very short time,
As tar as Its authority goes, the Gen-1
eral Staff Is taking all preliminary pie.
cautions to this end, To-day all the
mateilal for pontoon bridges at the
Washington barracks was shipped to llu 1
border, and all the engineers of the army
whose services would be required In
building bridges across the ltlo Gr.imle
have been placed under Funstoji's coin-
U 1 " " ' '
,, , .
' Several army transports at New Or
leans and Galveston are understood to
be under orders to hold themselves In
readiness to proceed to Tamplco and
Vera Cruz to serve ns refund ships for
Americans should hostilities between the
two countries commence. Although the
state oepartment denied to-d.iy tii.u it
has ordered all American Consuls In
leave Mexico It was stated that full dis
cretion lies with them to leave whenever
Hie situation becomes dangerous
Consul John R. Sllllman at Saltlllo Is
now the only American Consul left re
liialnliig In the Interior of Mexico. Con
sul llanna has ulrf-ndy left his post at
Monterey and Is now at Laredo, Tex.
Notices were sent tn-dav by the War
Oepartment to all National Guard or-
ganlzatlons throughout the country call-
lug their attention to the fact that the
new army icorganlratlon bill requires
the personnel of the organized militia to
take a new oath pledging themselves to
obey the orders of the President when-
t... ....... .,.,11 ,,n
in e ii, ,.r..n.,i.,.iiu ..in, ii, ....
ceptlon of the Kansas National Guard,
which Is already bound by such an oath,
must reenllst under this new junvislon
before July I If they nre to continue to
receive Federal aid. In view of tlu fact
thai the iinny reorganization nit ie-
pealed the old mllltla law and the new
Iippriqiriillioii oill nun noi jei passeo mil-
I'l.lin ilie ooni.-M it.. i ll'l riiu-iini. .ii IlieivvllUII w ones Pllllll III- pillll.
present status of the mllltla. ' "This Is exactly what the Government
The Mexican Kmbassy Issued to-night i )uis done, though It has i.t found It
the following statement I necessary to do so lu the case of the
The fart that a number of Americans
111 Tiimplen nail sent n protest to the
ntaie ijeiiii inu'iii 01 i.iiniiiimu'ii I'tiu
tabling complaluts as to alleged dls
criminatory and adverse treatment was
His present
J
f bt.n,. .. t.n....l. tl...
I patches som time ago, but not until
to-day was the text of that complaint)
received nnd the public enabled to le.iru
exactly what was the nature of the!
allegations ngalnst the Constitutionalist i
Government.
"The complaint Is a tentative one and ,
commences with the allegation that It j
has become practically impossible for I
an American to do business of any n.i-'
tore in this section of the country be
cause of the restrictions placed by the ,
, aothorltle.s th.it we believe to be directed
pi iinariiy tigiunsi .iiiericaii citizens, i
"The fact that American oil companlfw '
at - actively at work In the T.implco .
section and have been ever siuo
tho
revolution should be sufficient to dis
prove thl.s rnmplalnt, while the Insinua
tauy that the restilctlons placid hy the
authorities are directed against Ameri
can has no foundation In fact. What
ever restrictions have been placed of
any natuie have been directed against all
foiilgners and natives alike. There hnn
been no discrimination.
The principal restriction has been
man nt the front.
against the transfer of pioperty from on the bordei Gen l'ai ker - force i oi.
natives to foreigners and the unsettled sl,H ( ,,. I--,,!, , n,. Twenty . Mil and
currency conditions. Some time ago It 1 Twenty-eighth uvular .nfantiy lea.
was found that iinny foreigner were ments, the Second i Tli rd Texas
steklng to take advantage of the neces- f.,trv icglm-uts .In T nrd Cavalry
sltles of Mexican land owners and to si-: ., iia'ttl.,v 1 ,.f the Fourth Field Ar
cure from them at merely nominal prices' nlleiv
valuable oil. agricultural and mineral. (j,.-,,. Kunsion leiepm, I to ilep I'jr-
Ulll", 1.....U.I. iwi ill.- null,. Ill llll- lr.
picii.itcd wiper currency a fraction of
fair real worth. Tills was stopped by
di ere" which especially recited that It
was only temporary In its operation. If
Americans think themselves discrimi
nated against in this connection then it
was only because they were the worst
oflenders.
"At the s.mie time because many
traitors who expe.ted with reason thn
their propei ty might confiscated weie
seeking to prnlet themselves by sham
transfers to foreign, rs. Amerlcars 1 1-
liiidcd, all such transfeis were fotblddeiv
nnd no transaction Involving real prop
ortv can be carried out without he In
. ves'tlg.itlon and consent of the au
thoiitles
But legitimate transactions w here
the consideration Is adequate ml no been forwarded lroin Washington, t.eii
advantage Is sought to be taken of the ' Funston was Infoiined, to be used III
seller can le mid are being cured out. j hastily bridging tin- Bin Grande si t what
Pei sous seeking to take advantage of'i ver points II becoim s ne. essary to
the native land owneis natiiialy com-1 iross.
plain at these leMrictions lVona not ' Gen Funstou's Instructions will pel
so s,.,.ktig have no complaint to make , mil him to seize Mexican lallw.iys 'in
"These lestilctlons naturally ale nb- 'mediately. In case of n re il outbieak of
i Iiii..ik.. m Ho. Iionl., nf oil snei iilatois
f,m the Ami lican petmleum fields who
mVl, sought and are seeking to make a
frtlin,. from a 'hoestilng In Mexico
,la,i,,g on tlie Ignorance and the'neees.
I , ". , J
uilllin.-'to .in wlrit Is rlirhi bv ih.,1" enmv f""" situations
, v sl ' ,' , ', . , t . ?,.. The bandit laldlng is the teataie haul-
' people iinu me urn eriuueiu m me niun-
try to which tney long mr n mriune nave
"" complaint to make.
j "Beyond thin feature of the complaint
s'nt I" Washington the juinclpal ground
for di minuting Inteiventioii made Is that
they nie not allowed to piy their luboieis
In the dipieclnled Mitrepcy, They coin-
i p'nln that the Government has taken
l,ioii nseii in epeiuy nie llieiliuill in
Cnnffutirif on Nimiiif p,iu,
Ill'MiM.Ol: IK til IIIIU'IKD,
.Nuw tilur Itian noi Sic lb. .tY,
Got on "llol Tinir of
Texas Haiders Near'
Hrouusville.
FIGHT B KG INS JUST
OVER LINK. IS BKPORT
Ifeenforcemeiy.s Hushed
From Fori Brown
to Forces.
MAY BK BATTLING
WITH ('AHBAXZISTAS
(ton. IVi-sliing Tells Tro
vinri He Will Not Take
His Orders.
San Antonio, Tex-., June 17. Two
more detachments of l.'nlted Statu
troops have crossed the border Into
Mexico In the Brownsville district In
pursuit of Mexlcm raiders und are ie
ported to have been engaged In battle.
Army headquarters view the situa
tion tu-nlght as not only viltlc.il but
actually on the vergo of war with
Mexico. It was late this foienoou
when Lieut Newman of Troop II of
the Third Cavalry .struck a "hot trull"
of the bilidlls vv'ho attacked the troops
at San Benito last night, and with his
detachment started In pursuit of tl.e
Mexicans.
The trull led across the Rio Grande
nnd the American tioops crossed nnd
were soon engaged with the gniK,
which they overtook a few miles from
the river. The tight Listed but n few
minutes, for- the Mexicans scattered
nfter the sccund volley iiml were
chased several miles Into the Interim
No casualties have been reported so
far to-night. The troops are still on
Mexican soil, Troop 11 having I wen if
enforced by four more troop-i of the
Third Cavalry
Before leaving Brownsville lor
.Mutnnionis to-nlcht Mexican Consul
Garza delivered Gen Itlenilt's ultlliia
j turn to Gen. Parker. :n which the
former declared the Amei' .m tioopi
' In Mexico would be iittaeked iuil the
I punitive expedition which cro-f il to
day was withdrawn ut once
I Gen. Parker's answer was to rush
' the Twenty-eighth Infant! y and i-i-ven
' troops of the Third Cuvalry across the
j ltlo Grande to reenforce the tlv.- tronH
of the Third c.wilry Just oelow
, Mtitnmnnirv
Cry Iteiitli in viiierlciiii.
To-night he.idqiliuieie Is ndvise.l
that nearly 2.000 men. women mid
children mined with titles and shot
guns are parading the M reels of
Metamotos thteiiiemng denlh to
American.
The Amei ii-.in troops ntv a few mi.es
eoutll of Metalliotos, Mes.,ig,.s from
hiMdiiiarteis have been nt to all
i otntuaiiders along the border ti.-nlyht
telling them of conditions ai tos.s the
I "lie mid ordering them t ' hold their
I men In readiness for any evciitn.ultv
All the American troops ti.-iiiulu u."e
.11 lieadquarli'ts. are sleeping ill their
iiirnis, mid plans have been completed
for the quick tinnsm.sstou f sigtinis
and mossiiKi's fpm une end of the
j border to the other
1 Troops in the Bmw i.i-vilie district
have been s,.nt to leenfot.e tin . avalrv
, , ,, , , ,...,,1.-1,111! lloil lie Oil I IS
lhoiouKhl.v In the Brownsville section.
over Gen. Fiilisi in s ii.i,inc. a n'ti.e i
Texas and Mexn.iu '"'rn Viiieriiun- I i
accept the situation i.ilinly. to ii -na n
In their linines and not ende.ivm i i.ti.e
, p.ut ill ,ili trouble tin bandits iu.i
I cause.
, (leu Funston said Hut he would . on
' rnunlciile with Gov F. igiison as soon ih
the latter le.nhcs Texas f.om the S'
Louis loiiventloii and ,isl thai he taic
similar action, assiiliiig the Americans
who leiualn quiet and lea elul that toey
need have no fear
I'onlooiis sent lion li.
So .imeil is the situation considered
t ii.tt a huge number of pontoons have
hostilities, for the transportation of
troops and suppllis Southiiii Oepail
ment military oillcials are not alaiine.l
by the reports of .Mexican sotdieis lie iiu
hurtled borderward. as tln'ie "" "';'
quate forces to meet any that nie likely
est to cope with, ns so many nvei pails
, .. - .i i.n,, u,.,n i. k ...
! slip over.
.rh(, i,niH svhi.h tin Third Cavalry
,., followed into Mexuo ,.t Narar.
, 1 a mi(.M ,0. Biowiisvil,e
j,,,,!,!,,,) r a point known In be .
i ri,,',.7,wu for horse thieves This pull t
. j, 110t tnim .Melamoros Gen.
1 1 ... rKl-- lt l'i'llUl Mai .I know 111 IP1
Parker
eoiilvocai teiuis that ho .is aware
the Ijoisr thief teiidezvous. and pointed
out that complaint had been made of t
by him to the Mexican allthoiltles
'Thai the Cat I alizlstas and the bandits
in- woikirg ingctrar is evidenceij bv
a . i poll fi in 11 N'uevo l.iredo the
effect that the Hi.uudi'd Mctcui" III
.r,.f . . r T yrrtfl-,...,.... 1 ; ; .
BBBBBH 'IV. ' BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBTBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
