Vacaton Mone
For You-NS
TH II EL ALD I One Cent
NO. 3530. WEATHgR-PARnY CLOUDY. WASHINQTON. D. C., SUNDAY, JUNE 18. 1916. ONE CENT.
RUSSIANS TAKE
GALICIAN TOWN
NEAR LEMBERG
Radzviloff, Important Rail
way Center, Falls Before
Renewed Offensive.
AUSTRIANS RETREATING
Believed Franz Josef's Men
May Be Forced to Flee
to Carpathians.
RUSS SHEL FIRE WITHERING
Heavy Guns Brought Up and Incessant
Hail of Steel Is Being Hurled Into
Austro-German Ranks.
(By the Isternatienal News Service)
London. June 17.-The Russians in
their drive on Lemberg. the fortified
Galician position, have occupied Radsi
viloff, within eight miles of Brody. on
the Lemberg-Dubno-Rovno Railway.
This capture, aside from securing to
the Russians further undisputed com
mand of this important railway line
of communication. serves to straighten
the Russian front, which was advanced
considerably yesterday in the fighting
around Kremene.
The sharp Russian advanct indicated
came on the heels of reports tha't stub
born Austrian resistance had given a
temporary check to the Russians in
their great offensive. That there ac
tualiy had been a lull was indicated
by a wireless report from Berne.
Switzerland. which stated that Aus
trian sources gave news that the Rus
sian offensive had been renewed with
increased fury after a short pause. An
incessant hail of shells is pouring
thicker than ever into the Austro
German ranks from a supply which
appears inexhaustible.
Heavy Guns Brought Up.
More Russian heavy guns have been
brought up and huge re-enforcements
for the Czar's troops have appeared
near Torchin (Toresyn), west ofLutsk,
and at Horodenka. west of the Dniester
and north of Sniatyn.
The following report was received
from Vienna:
"On the Pruth there are no incidents
of importance to report.
"North of Niezwiska. Russian at
tenipt, t, cross the Dniester failed.
Russian attacks west of Wlsniowesyk
continue.
'In Volhvnia there has been bitter
tghting in the Strypa. Lokaczo and Stok
hud-Styr sectors."
lepo rt. froni Petrograd earlier in the
day indicated the Russians had reached
the Austrian Fecond line of defense, pene
tiratmc at some points fifty miles to the
rear of the frst line.
Thr .\it rians are retreating toward the
high I rpathun Mountains, and as a re
suit of tie d' in; force of Gen. BruF*
offs offensr e it is believed they may yet
r, compe:ied to seek refuge on the
plains of Hungary.
LonJon. June 17.-The terrific German
Lombardimeiit of French positions around
11i1i 3(A has been greatly intensified dur
ing the last twenty-four hours, accord
ing to reports from Paris.
The German statement simply says that
in the Meuse district "the artillery ac
tivity has increased to great violence."
But tonight's report from Paris says that
not only are the Germans hammering
stcadily against the French first line
around this important height, but the
French second line in the region of Chat
tancourt has been brought under the Ger
man fire.
PROBATE JUDGE MURDERED.
Body Fomd in River Wetiated
Downt Shot in Head.
Huntsville. Ala.. June 17.-The body
of Probate Judge W. T. Lawler, promi
nent prohibition worker, was found
today by searchers in a slough heavily
weighted down. Two bullet holes
were in his bead.
Lawler had just been re-elected in
an election wherein the liquor fight
was a bitter one. An investigation
into alleged frauds is now under way.
and the dead judge was to have been
a witness. He has been missing since
Wednesday.
Germans Bombard Dunkik.
Paris. June 17.-German aeroplane,
have again bombarded Dunkirk, the
French war office announced today. An
other squadron of machines shelled Bar
Le Duc. Four persons were killed and
fifteen wounded.
Britisk Destroyer Sunk.
London. June 17.-The British destroyer
Eden has been sunk in the English Chan
nel in collision with another vessel. the
adrairalty announced today' Thirty-one
members of the crew of seventy were
saved and three~ offlsers are missing.
German Criser Damaged.
London. June 17.-A Central News die.
namt from The Hague says that the
Grman cruiser Vooder Thanmn waes.beAdy
anged in the sea fight off Jutland and
bus just been towed Iato Wllhelmsabaved
tag resairs
FEAR INTERNAL STRIFE
IN KAISER'S DOMAIN
4 By the Sm News Service.)
London, June 17.-What seems to be an
indication of the German government's
growing alarm at internal conditions in
Germany and fear a internal strife is
contained in an article in Der
Tag. by Dr. HugBottger. conservative
member of the Rchstag, who declares
that the internal political life of Germany
is fast a'ppropriaching a crisis which may
be a misfortune if patriots are unwilling
to aid the government's task.
The writer deplores the lack of unity.
The article contains the first oflicial ad
mission that conditions are different from
the beginning of the war, when the
Kaiser declared there were no more
parties in Germany. every German being
united in the prosecution of the war.
PER S SEES PEACE
WITH G. 0. P. IN SIGHT
(By the Sun News service.)
Jfew York. June 17.-George W. Per
kins. who has been sort of a minister
plenipotentiary from Col. Theodore
Roosevelt in the recent conferences
with Gov. Whitman, representing the
Republican Presidential nominee. Charles
F. Hughes. confirmed tonight the be
lief that peace between the Progree
sives-at least that part of the or
ganization which the Colonel can con
trol-and the Republican party will
be arrranged in the immediate future.
Mr. Perkins' brief statement was the
first official word that emanated from
his negotiations with Gov. Whitman.
"You can say this," Mr. Perkins
said, "the general efforts that have
been made for some time past looking
toward a getting together of both
parties for the common cause are pro
gressing satisfactorily."
U. S. PREPARES TO BUILD
AUTO ROADS IN MEXICO
(By the Sm News Service.)
Chicago, June 17.-Because of the tense
ness of the Mexican situation, significance
%as attached in army quarters to the
action of the War Department today in
placing hurry-up orders with firms near
Chicago to supply road-building ma
chinery for immediate shipment to
Mexico.
According to Information received from
an authoritative source. Uncle Sam, in
stead of preparing to quit Xeico, in
tends to build 1V miles of military and
automobile road south of the Rio Grande
at once.
Four tractors, four graders, eighteen
dump wagons and road rollers were ex
pected. The requisition was placed by
Maj. K. J. Hampton, acting quarter
master of the central department.
The government's force of motor trucks
also is to be augmented by aixty-siz new
machines. Four hundred are now In serv
ice.
COLONEL RETURNS HOME
TO GET OVER ILLNESS
(By the Sum News Service.)
Oyster Bay, N. Y., June 17.-Col. Roose
velt came home this ev ening to seek the
rest which his physicians have ordered
him to take. It was feared that the mo
tor trip from New York would do the
Colonel no good on account of the loos
cned ligaments of his left side which
have caused him considerable pain, and
this evening it was given out at Saga
more Hill that the Colonel would not be
seen.
"He has nothing to say.' was the mes
sage, and in reply to a request for news
of his condition. another message was
given out that "Mr. Roosevelt says he is
feeling all right."
CLOUDBURST INMNATES
PENNSYLVANIA TOWN
4By the Sum News Service.)
Harrisburg, Pa., June 17.-LAwrence
ville, Tioga County. was inundated by
three feet of water when a "cloudburst"
broke over that place, according to a
telephone message received today by Dr.
Samuel G. Dixon, State health com
missioner, from H. B. Rusling. the
Lawrenceville burgess.
It is stated that no lives were lost
but that the sanitary conditions are
such that prompt action Is needed in
order to avert an epidemic.
RAE TANZER HYSTERICAL
AT TRIAL FOR PERJURY
(Dy the m New. Service.)
New York. June 17--Rae Tanzer be
came hysterical today for the second
time. in her trial on a charge of perjuiry.
In having identified Oliver Osborne as
James W. Osborne. former district attor
ney. It was just before 1 o'clock. Ben
jamin Blade, her counsel, had asked that
court adjourn a few miautee before 1 to
enable him to catch a train, and Judge
Wolverton had refused the request. Mfrs.
ilthel Brooks Nye, a eserted wife of
Oliver Osborne by her own story, was
under cross-examnination by Mr. Slade.
Suddenly Rae Tanser slumped forward
and began to moan. Two women who
have been in pretty constant attendance
on her sine her hysterical fit earlier in
the trial, had a deputy United States
maerthal pitk her up and carry her to a
couch along the, wall at the side of the
judge's bench. Mr. Slade refused to con
tine the'-cross-examinatiom because of
his ellent's endettaan
U. S. Troops On Border
Ordered to Sleep On Arms
(By sn News Service.)
San Antonio, Tex., June 17.-Tonight headquarters is advised
that nearly 2,000 men, women, and children, armed with rifles and
shotguns, are parading the streets of Matamoras threatening death
to Americans.
The American troops are a few miles south of Matamoras.
Messages from headquarters have been sent to all commanders
along the border tonight telling them of conditions across the line
and ordering them to hold their men in readiness for any event
uality.
All the American troops tonight are in headquarters, sleeping
on their arms, and plans have been completed for the quick trans
mission of signals and messages from one end of the border to
the other.
Third Cavalry Crosses Line
In Hot Chase After Bandits
By JOSEPH SIMMONS. prehension that this new invasion of
Slnternatioeal News Service.) Mexican soil would lead to a clash ith
San Antonio, Tex.. June 17.-A force of
310 troops of the Third Cavalry under Before the arrival of Maj. Newman'$
command of Maj. Edward Anderson, haves Troop H. under Uiut. A. D.
pursued Mexican bandits across the Rio Newman, overtook a part of the bandits
Grande at Naranjos and up the river to below the river and engaged them in a
a point near MIatamoras. running light. So far as is known either'
Maj. Anderson is sticking to the trail at Brownsville or here, no one was killed
of the bandits in spite of the Imminent on either ride and no American was
danger of attack by Carranista, soldler wonded.
from the Matanorap garrison. Gen. Aifredo Ricault. nephew of Car
Brig. ten. James Parker. in commandl ranza. and commander of a sone extend
of this section of the border guard, noti-I tg from atamoras to beyond Noevo
tied Mexican Consuil Garza of Brow6nsvillel La.redo. It 1. reported, has dispatched atI
B orce Of cavalry down the river to meet
the Americans and "drive them across
boundary had been crossed. Gara the river"no ee
plied ith expressions of regret and ap- confirm or h a e
Girl's Testimony For Orpet
Declared Prompted by Love
ro Y the Sun ews Sersne) .tatens Attorney Dad, toda put oitness
Waukegan. I., June rIn-Josephne after witness on the stand. He even call
Davis loved Will Orpet. She kept up a ed Marlon's Sunday school teacher. All
friendship with Marion Lambert partly who testitl d declared they never saw
so she could see him." Marion In a despondent moo d
This was the vengeance taken by For The only falling point in their testimony
oce Russell a member of the 'Eighteen was that no one of them could say she
Bunch, ,.wschool girl chums of Marion was as intimate with Marion as Josephine
Lambert, on Josephine Davisb who turn- had been.
od 'against her Wlend and gave testimony "Marion and r talked In general about
in favor of Will Orpetf the youth ac. things. he talked of going to colege
cused of Miss Lambert's murder, and of her plans for thLAuKKIIEJ. .TUML
In his reletless attaci 7on our tok drttd 'tOil Orpet She spoke
Davis' testimony that Mard cred at of his temp dr. 'e loses his temper-I
her birthday party the Sunday before like to see him In that mood.' she said
'JD Davis likes him, but I don't care
she disd, and threatened to take her own guess thats why Jo come to my house
lire if Will mrries Celeste ouker so often
Pennsylvania Road Pleads
With Employes Not to StrFioker
Philadelphia, Pa. June 1 .-An argu- *Shall they also be permitted to deprive!
nentative appeal to employes not to join others of the opportunity to earn wages.
the tike threatened by trainmen of the roducing suffering and distress not onl
Pennsylvania Railroad Company was is- among our employes and their families
rued tonight by the Philadelphia, Balti- but the public as welt?
more and Washington Railtroad Company. "The management, under the law, is re
The appeal, in part, follows: qired to operate the railrod In thein
"A strike ballot is being taken by the terest of the public, and I f atrike e en
train employ s of the Pennsylvania Rail- tuates, it will be incumbent upon all
road Company, loyal employes to be faithful to their d1uty
'ah total cessation of train movement and operate the railroad.
wlt result in stopping work In all de. "For aeventy years this company has,
partments. with consequent loss of earn- served the public. Many of its meu hav
Ings to all employes, served the company from twenty-iv to:
'We do not believe the contemplated forty years or more and are still in its
strike will be indoraed by any loyal em- employment Shalt they e thrown out
ployes. of work and deprived of a liverihood by
"This company employs 146,00 men. Of reason of a wage controversy among
this number only 25.OO are In the train trainmen not connected with their de
service. It is not reasonable to expect partmentn
that the wages of the remaining 121w000 "If this strike of trainmen Is carried
employes not in the train service shall on. our company will require engineers,
he Jeopardized or stopped by a strike of firemen, conductors, passenger and
less than one-sixth of all the employes, freight brakemenf
"Shalt these men, in defiance of right "Temng et alshetetino
and justice. be permitted to stop the a ll the o
operation of the raiiruad and deprive It all faithful employ s to the necessity that
of the ability to serve the public? may arise to meet such emergencies."
NEW YORK BABES mEACED. ONE THOUSAND IN PERMh
Outbreak of Inf nti PmarriessoI. Excursion Steamer Yokmmee by Tu
Reported, but Crew Prevents panic.
New York, June 17-The first outbreak New York, June 17.-The Hudson River
of Inantile paralysis that has been dis- teamboat Ben Franklin, of Yonkers, wa
covered In greater New York in the going up the East River this afternoon
past nine years that auss any concern carrying the excursion of the Congress
was made Public by the department of Club, of Williamsburg. Brooklyn, to Point
health today when Dr. Charles F. Bold- View Grove and College Point, when she
man, director of the bureau of health s rammed on the port side by the
education, announced that twenty-four steel oceangoing tug Elmer Teller,
cases were being cared for by the do- There were a thousand persons on
atmnt in the orough anf rIl
Accodin tota heto depatraent moemcaesn icth rs. h rwmse
aresuil an tonfined tor inat and he- Ccrinso tesabadsd
verytmalls cihdconeun oso eand ihtehl hu itdu u
"Wef thenwaterithe sheamboatmpadeea
striell Declndred Dey any loyalen
"Ticmany employs Te6,00 men.0,00SUT OfE
thismereea nd P5,ci0far unhrin ln
Specalwes boud, aSheenlrecedheyr Ag n permitestoepriv
ter Lofis Mohe oporunt I7t tor con-s
nearCiso, rex. ad tht telv peson btet the wuil of the lat amsCap
are dad an man n~u"del banagmtkner, h idi Geenaw, e
No detils hve ben reciveddon to opeae the114 asild In then
Phiadephi. Jne ,Ernst acy tenress fvth pb.le Jnes if atikeeen
widel knon aseductor, iterry mnso Mr t wieeal l ho incmbntup nal
dramaiopeitatend laywrghtdiedtoda
hse the ubcoMn ofuitst menthaet
Pro.Lcy as eadofthedeprtmnt tere Cahpel willn whrom dipesv o
of Eglih IntheCenral.Hig Schol, rta eae oral e and are stillin it
employment. ehallstheyBbetthrown.ou
En more ~ ~ ~ ~ f or and Oho"vr oro .' hdepvdo a liveshodrb
the Hor,' *.50 Stredasoandofn-aIwmae cotery amowng
svice.eI is not rea ond triepectI patmnt? d6l, udaJne2,
thatth waeoftermnng1,00 "ftistkef 5;5 m. , taineans arried
U. S. TRO(
NEAR BR
WILSON
HOUSE VOTES
WAGE PROBE
Adopts Keating Resolution for
Inquiry Into High Cost
of Living.
$6,000 APPROPRIATED FOR
SURVEY OF WASHINGTON
The House yesterday passed without
debate the Keating resolution appropri
ating SC.000 for an inveatigation by the
Department of Labor of "the wages paId
to wrage earners and the cost of living
o the same in the District of Columbia."
As originally propoued, the resolution
confined the investigation to the cost o
living here. The added scope was given
by amendments adopted by the District
committee of the House.
Royal Meeker, chief of the Bureau of
Labor Statistics, whose bureau will be
called upon to do the work if the Senate
accepts the resolution, said last night that
the investigation under his interpretation
,f the resolution would include all wage
earners. whether government employes
or not, in the District, providing the an
nual compensation of the subject was not
greater than $1,200.
The schedule of work outlined by Mr.
Meeker to the committee. and upon which
his estlimated cost of %%m was based.
did not include an investigation of the
wage question, and it is probable that
in order to do well one of the two jobs
directed, Mr. Meeker would be obliged
to slight the wage investigation unless
a larger appropriation should be allowed
bv the Senate.
The plan of action involves sepe -iting
each occulational class into 1 ;ds of
families and boarders of both sexes. it
is expected that by running down a list
of a thousand names and addresses. 6M
schedules would be obtained from which
to strike averages and reach conci s.
DECLARES MR. DANIELS
Secretary of Navy Tel1s of Need for
Better Defense at Sea and
Praises Senate.
Ily Sun News Service.)
Chicago. June 17.-Josephus Daniels.
Secretary of the Navy, reached Chicago
from St. Louis today exhibiting a
broad smile as the result of the Demo
cratic convention. and tickled over the
prospect as he saw it. of the re-elec
tion of Woodrow Wilson in Novem
ber.
Secretary Daniels sidestepped poli
tics, but he talked with emphasis on
the need of Dreadnoughts. "The coun
try," he said. "demands a bigger navy
and army. He had found that spirit
everywhere in his present Western
trip.
"A navy is always as big as the
public demands," said the Secretary,
"and right now there Is a movement
throughout the United States to make
it the strong arm of our national de
fense. I find that the sentiment for
preparedness is not limited to the
East Coast or the Pacific Coast. It
exists in the Middle West just as sure
ly as near the seas.
"I have been working hard for the
adoption of the new naval bill. which
will give us $245,000,000 to expend on
ships, and adds 16,000 men to the serv
ice. So far the House of Representa
tives has not been properly impressed
with the need for a strong navy, but
the Senate is to be depended upon to
back big fighting Dreadnoughts."
AGED "XAMMY" A MAN.
Elghty-six-Year-Old Negro Posed
as Female All His Life.
Wheeling, W. Va., June 17.-When
"Sarah" Hamilton, aged 86 years. col
ored, died in the Ohio County home
today, it was found that "she" was a
man. "She' had been in the home sev
eral years. and no suspicion was ever
sntertained as to "her" sex.
Before entering the county home
the pseudo "woman" had worked as a
domestic for a prominent family for
sixty years, In all that time no one
ever had cause to believe "she" was
of the male sex.
Seven Rdelifte Girls to Wed.
Cambridge, Mass., June 17.-Radcliffe
College commencement began here with
class day festivities. Before the exer
tises began, in accordance with the Rad
clIfe. custom, seven of the senior class
acknowledged that they are engaged to
be' married,
Loses $20,000 Heart Balm Suit.
Iston. June 17-Alfred L. Lowenstein.
aW Philadelphia clothing dealer lost
b ,Codamage suit against Howard
$. Drinkh'oure. of Philadelphia for aliena
tion of the affections of Mrs. Blanche
Ltwmntam
)PS IN BATTLE
,OWNSVILLE, TEX.;
AND BAKER CONFER
'350 CAVALRYMEN
PURSUE BANDITS
ACROSS BOUNDARY
Forces Near Matamoras Believed in
Danger as Result of Invasion of
Carranza Territory.
MILITIA MAY BE CALLED OUT
lWar Department Officials Believe Interven
tion Near and Bridge Equipment Is Ordered
Sent to the Border from Capital.
United States troops in Mexico were reported in a serious battle with
Mexicans last night near Brownsville, Tex.
Coincident with reports of this border battle messages were received at
the War Department that a force of 350 men of the Third Cavalry had
pursued Mexican bandits across the line and up the Rio Grande to a point
near Matamoras. This force was declared to be in imminent danger of
attack from Carranza soldiers.
CONFERENCE AT WHITE HOUSE.
The situation was considered so grave that President Wilson and Secre.
tary of War Baker held a long conference at the White House last night.
No information was given out, except a statement by Secretary Baker. vh
said:
"Gen Funston has ordets to protect the border from bandits and "
them back, and he has orders to" Tollow 'hot trails' into Meia&." s.
MAY CALL OUT MILITIA.
It was stated by War Department oficials that orders likely would bd
issued within the next few days for the mobilization of the National Guards
of the various States, and that in the event of intervention, considered la
night to be very near, a call immediately would be issued for volunteers.
All pontoon and bridge equipment at the Washington barracks was be
ing prepared for shipment to Mexico last night., and reports from Chicagq
stated that orders had been given for more motor trucks and road buinig
machinery.
Press Report. Omarme.
MEXICAN BULLETINS Partitai confir-aUon of prew rworte
from the border concerning the fightns
Nogale. Ariz.. June 17-The Carraniza near towthe Wa repeiten a det
military authorities commandered all roll- stot
Ing stock of the Southern Pacific Railway u
of xico toght. The garrison report statl that foowing
,olN1,icotonght Te grrion oin jthe clash ea~rlier In the day between
niander on the Mexican side issued arms
landarnni:Atin toth rwiianAmne:icans and Mexicans at San Benlt"
and amm:nition to the civilian popula- Tex.. Col BIlard who commanded the
tion. who began to parade the streets, Aincrcan force, sent Lieut A. 1 New
anticipating a clash with the Americans. I
Douglas. Ariz.. June 17.-a;en Arniulfor tietrurtlons t pik up the trail of the re
Gm: has begun to evaiute \uias fond
JGn.z a eeicn tow opposi.te A uga and ; --dirg t,. the despatch from Fun
'Prieta. the Mlexican town -;,posit, e ee.
Tonight he ordered seized the engines ton. t e' ien t f:icwed of t
and all rolling stoch of the railroad which
connects Douglas and 'Auga Prieta with
Nacozari, seventy-five niues scuth of the
forder cromsed the brder into Mexico.
nThe dispvtch was receIed hen See
IDouglas. Arrz, June 1Es-One hlitidred retary Laie- was in conferenis with
l aind twenty Americans have ~etimaroon- Preside t ioe. and a m rn edateiy
ed In the Sonora interior by the seizure of sei~t t, hin, The Secretary had gone to
the Nacozari Ralroad to facilltate thenT se7 The Preodert fer the tratie of la
evacuatton of Agua Prieta Fift he re ht the f :a r-ort f the
Inumiber are the Slvxer Mining' Camp. IxchAngsow notes etcen -r Parrtng.
sixty miles southi of the b,.iindarv. and comnmarding thT AnCoti Ba ti c e.dthe
seventy are at Nacozari. The agents or fore n M arco, and Get Ja rito w.i
the two companies are makiing ev-ery cf- 'in. the t picak phietara. commander in
fort to affod assistance. Nothord Mexico. This report Cetabll -
sd th fact that Treino hnacl t hreatned
XEXICANS ARREST RANERS, i attack Aing t the ds i ptchng
tomed his fie er aan port of farther
32anager and Fl~nofficials Are
outh, teas rr nt. or , an% more Amx r
Jailed n rdpital. .cn trops wer sent across the border.
exico City, June dispathF. Mwtcheal rei ev en
a Sc .tchman, nJauaier of t e London rear Eaerh i se t c n deren oodt
and Mexico Bank with Assistant Man- Pedn rid. it s undersately
ger W.liam tha t Serior by t en t he did not recognize Trvino ha one
rilr.a Germ. fa'dtenfrom tes oni he wast to take orders con
directorn of A hieta f th he the moement of his troops. al
arrested thes aftilnoor. M n Cap, exhngSecretarys Baker has refused to
'orrmider Hill utause the bank te- Mke publ c the text of the communir
fseento accet Naoi Thren agnts at fiorc n exic d Ge: .moT.
the atoritpies dcare aing evyatno the bankicancmetary Baerdeiemta'ne i
hadreceoaffod assisthne. NoithernaMexico.Thi reportedta eep e tolet alth
haere. dEeenOttl Are rfuetoaywehrhorG.
Or whetheranoreatroopr ofetto Lenden
Iraed. Me ankhl, wth Asban Ma n-le
adrer utn arsaled o ith thea n-k cros tBonvle or-noc
arrested h~sthftoant.BenitoerrofdPrs
RomanSpild Hner Hill Deas h ay. Omlte-th a ~prtut ak
Bortn, Juymeto 7-a to dahyc wspie due. ul ealso at ih d lp
the bigtelrition delained that the b41 ank ana eo-siie r nbet
anciversary of the atllista Bunke Zapa- dvwehe hyratdfrn h
The dpyinerhe prae t C ai btow ater nctotA h sm ~eStrt
rlase. Meanwhile. thefthebaeksanare closedr
andreats thereshasebeenlno changehehat
"Chmm Faden Dis. edvter inc that oresino han. reaene
Clevelnd. Oho. Jure 7-harle w hich a re o rtec at oiatheer nd
Hoperlon aresden ofClvelnd.psu.eany forc tat. orn:ianee Amler
many yearstaocomiceoperanstar.ossdtterritory.
famus s te oignt Cimme Fd- Othcat here notrecomieTrevmoa am one
mak. id oa nth eea g Iced tubli the texta. of the comni
pitapoantAaalonglthe hlrowinlaan oigrt- but
he, refuse toswehrh rGn
Pershingzv1 had ase orr-noreet
