THE ARIZONA REPTJ
TBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
24 PAGES
PHOENIX ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, JUNE 18, 1916
24 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 31
SWF
BATT
-7
A-UVHfcn 3J.V13
Anderson's Expedition i nreatened. With Attack by Mexicans
CLOSES OFFICE
IN BROWNSVILLE
Delivers General Ricaut's
Ultimatum to General
Parker and Then Closes
Consulate and Moves
Across to Matamoros
LITTLE SLACKENING
OF RUSSIAN DRIVE
AGAINST A USTRIANS
-
NO ANTI-AMERICAN
! DEMONSTRATIONS ALLOWED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BROWNSVILLE, Tex., June 17
Carranza's consul, J. Z. Garza,
stationed here, delivered early to
night General Alfredo Ricaut's ul
timatum to General James Par
ker, Brownsville commander, that
unless the Anderson punitive ex
pedition was withdrawn an at
tack would be made by Carranza
troops. Immediately afterwards
Consul Garza closed the consulate
ar.d r'Oved to Matamoros.
Additional United States troops
including a portion of the Twenty-eighth
infantry and the remain
der of the Third cavalry, under
"command of Colonel A. P. Block
soil were en route to Naranjos
tonight, the point of crossing of a
puadror of the Third cavalry in
to Mexico today to reinforce those
already sent in.
Mexicans operating from the
out(ien side of the river, de
stroyer! all ra(ro?d tracks on the
international bridge here late to
night, effectually blocking all
traff-c, except to pedestrians. Fear
that t-oop trains might be sent
over tho bridge from the United
States is said to have caused this
action.
F.L PASO, June 17. No anti-
American demonstrations will be
allowed in Juarez by General
Francisco Gonzales, acting com-
mander of Northern Chihuahua.
j This statement was made by him
today to a small delegation of
Mexicans who called to see him in
regard to holding a meeting of
protest against the presence of
American troops. General Gon-
zales later said that Juarez would j
remain quiet so long as he was in
control. Speech-making agitators
or others actuated by aggressive j
j purposes would be promptly ar-
I rested, he added.
PROBATE JUDGE
FOUND SLAIN IN
Forward Progress of Gen
eral Brusiloff's Armies is
Apparently Much Less
Rapid Than in the Early
Stages of Engagement
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The -drive of the Russian offen
sive in Vcliiymoa, Galicla and Buko
wir.a shows little slackening in
power, although the forward prog
ress of General Biusiloffs armies ap
parently is much Jess rapid than in
th early stage of the engagement.
From the Volyhynian triangle fort
resses, the Russians have thrust
sharply to the west and southwest.
In the former direction they are bat
tering on the Austrian defensive line
1 CHANGE IN
POLICY OF THE
I
General Tre vino's Warning
Does Not Cause Washing
ton Officials to Recede
from Determination to
Keep Troops in Mexico
Cavalry on "Hot Trail"
Dashes Across Border
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June 17. Confir
mation of General Trevino's warning
that any movement of American
troops in Mexico except toward the
border would be treated by the Car
ranza commanders as a hostile act,
reached the war department late to
day. Secretary Baker declined to
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BROWNSVILLE, June 17 Upwards
of four hundred United States cavalry
under command of Major Edward An
derson of the Third regiment, crossed
the international border in two sec
tions twelve miles up the Rio Grande
river from here today, and engaged in
combat with Mexicans of unknown af
filiations or organization. The occa
sion of the crossing was the pursuit of
a "hot trail" of Mexican bandis, who
attacked United States soldiers near
San Benito last night.
The first command to enter Mexico
was that of Lieutenant A, D. Newman,
with Troop H of the Third cavalry,
crossing the river at ten o'clock. A
second detachment left Fort Brown at
j 1:30 o'clock and joined the Newman
expedition, with Major Anderson com
manding, about 3 o'clock this after
noon. According to the meagre reports here
fighting began immediately, or shortly
after the entrance to Mexico. Tele
phone reports from Villanueva, an
other settlement on the river bank, said
that heavy firing was plainly audible.
Officers at Fort Brown declined early
tonight to make known the progress of
the expedition. This was believed to
have been due to lack of information
more than a desire for secrecy.
All soldiers and officers stationed at
Fort Brown were called in from out
side points at noon, and held in the
garrison. Activities at the post indi
cated that any eventuality might be
expected. In the meantime officials
waited for some word of Major Ander
son's flying column.
comment on or to make public Gen-
along the Styr and the Stokhod, notjeral Trevino's message or the reply j
more than 30 miles, from Kovel, the, of General Pershing refusing to rec-i
important railway junction essential
to close connection between the south
ern Teutonic armies and those to the
north. '
ognize authority of the Carranza gen- I
eral over the American expedition. I
While it was apparent that General
Pershing s reply would be backed up
SHOULD
TO CM
In the latter direction they have; by officials here it was not indicated j
scored new progress and are close what further action the Washington I
to the Galkian border, pushing dow n I government might take. Secretary-
the railway from Duhno. The current ' Eaker took the text of General Tre-!
Russian official statement reports the-vino's ultimatum to the White House , -
R1CAUT BE AUTHORIZED
RYOUT HISTHREATSEEMS
SQUADRON GOES
OVER PURSUING
RAIDING BAND
Are Within Ten Miles of
Matamoros, Where Mex
ican Population, Armed
With Pistols and Rifles,
Awaits Developments '
CiHTAIN WAR
Another Ranch Raided
F.L PASO. June 17. A band of Mex
icans raided the San Juan ranch near
Fort Hancock below here, and made
off with twenty-four horses and mules
according to news received at El Paso
tonight. No shots were fired and no
one was harmed.
Rumors credited by military patrol
ificers tonight had Consul Andres
Republican A. P. Leased Wire,
HUNTSV1LLE, Ala., June 17 Two
companies of the Alabama national
guard were sent here tonight from
neighboring towns to protect several j
persons arrested after the body or
Judge W. T. Lawler, of the Madison
county probate court, had been found
today in a pool of .water near here.
JudRe Lawler had Just been re
nominated on a "dry" ticket after a
bitter political fight. News of the
finding of his body with two bullet
holes In the heart and skull crushed,
caused' a crowd to gather about the
courthouse square and while most ofi
i
occupation of Radzilowo, less than; and conferred with the president to
ll) miles from Brody, across the! night, it was understood that after
studying the note the president would
await official information regarding
reported fighting today in the
ficnt'er line and approximately sixty
miles northeast of Ijemberg, the Ga
lician capital, the Russian objective in
this drive. Berlin records the partiei
imtion of German troops in the fight
ins against the Russians reporting
General von Linsingen's forces en-
FUNSTON TO PROTECT
ALL PASSIVE MEXICANS
SAN ANTONIO, June 17. Gen
Brownsville district before he deter-1 eral Funston tonight asked Gen
mined upon a course.
Tonight the war department hud re
ceived no report on the development
gaged in fhe Stokhod Styr sector and at Brownsville, officials said that if.
the people had gone to their homes
tonight, excitement was rtill high.
others under General Count von Both
raer taking part in the battles north
if Frzewolka.
On the western front the fighting
at Verdun has again been left to
the artillery -for the most part. The
Gevmans arc violently shelling
French positions in the Dead Man's
Hill section, and incidentally have
made hand grenade attacks in tins
vicinity which Paris declares were futile.
Garcia closing the local Mexican con- The three or four men arrested
snlate and crossing to Juarez.- The were described as men. prominent in
consul, at his residence in EI Paso the community. Other arrests, it wusi
tonight, declared that he had no In- said, would be made,
-ntir.n of closing the consulate, whcie j Judge Lawler. according to county
Ronle announces an important suc
cess northeast of Asiago in the Tien
tino where several positions at the
head nf the Frenzela Valley were cap-
I tured. Vienna reports the failure of
1Mb papers and records are still in their
usual places.
Calles Has No Order
DOUGLAS, June 17. "General Calles i
has received no orders from First !
(Continued on Page Two
Italian attacks in the Dolomites and
the
' . . t I1KPV lSe OI assaults lllioil iiir -rmn-
oiliciius, nau an t iiiiueiiieni vruues-
day night to meet a political oppo
nent at the courthouse. Search "was
begun today on theory that the pro
Koto inHrro l?iH Kcn lrif i n-i n rto. I Wi
bo,lv w found in fifteen feet of i My; German machines have drop
i hirf Carranza as to what" to do in water, weighted down with ircn.
the face of an American troon move- i. i.i n,.. !,.;
men into Sonera.- said Consul Ive J would incIude charges of election front Including Bar-le-Duc and
;. Lelevior tonight, "but the general ; fr3ud made after the recent primary Our.kirk and a French air sqnadr.'..
tnld me on several occasions that he I ln .,,.. JudKe Uwltr wa, a candi. hac bombarded various railroad sta-
' ' date.
Wa.lT.aa 1 iikpv lse ot assaults upon
trian lines on tne D.merto piateau.
Ail men have been unusually active
on the various fronts. Austrian avia
tors raided Paidui and Italian towns
learby; German machines have drop
ped bombs freely on several points of
that an investigation mlMtnrjr importance along the west
(Continued on Page Two)
Juarez Mexicans Drilling
to Prepare for an Invasion
Carranza troops had made any at
tack , on American detachments fol- j
lowing hot trails over the line the j
Americans 'undoubtedly would with- i
draw to the American side anden-1
trench to repel any attempt to follow '
them. They did not believe any coun- j
ter attack would be attempted without
special orders from Washington. i
Neither state nor war department '
officials seemed greatly agitated over i
General 'Trevino's. ultimatum. Secre
tary Lansing said the policy of the
administration was unchanged.
The reply tl the Carranz note de- I
manding the recall of the American ,
forces will leave by special messenger j
Monday for Mexico City, unless de
velopments upset present plans.
Whether General Trevino's ulti
matum, said to have been presented
on specific orders or carranza, woiuci
Influence President Wilson to in
terrupt the diplomatic exchange no
fficial would predict.
Should the reply refusing to with
raw General Pershing's expedition
go liy messenger, it win not oe oe-
livered for ten days or two weeks.
Its text would not be made public
until it had reached its destination
n any event.
So far as known the war depart
ment has taken no additional steps
toward mobilizing the natianal guard
V
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Fl. PASO, June 17. About three
score Mexicans reported in Juarez
plaza, it is believed in response to a
call t; citizens to receive military in
struction that they might be pre
pared to repel invasion in the event
there should be a break 'with the Unit
ed States. The Mexicans organized a
civil guard, went through an hour's
perfunctory military movements and
went to their homes withouL further
demonstration.
Numerous rumors were current in
Kl Paso todiv that secret organiza
tions are being formed in Juarez,
wlv-se members are pledged to take
arms in the event of American inter
venes, but these were not confirmed
by Mexican officials.
Excitement manifested in El Puso
lact night and early today apparently
had abated tonight with the realiza
tion that every precaution had been
made to protect the city in events of
the remotest . possibility. Persons
closely in touch with the situation ap
parently expect no overt acts against
the Americans from the Mexicans in
this vicinity. Even the arrival of
four hundred additional troops from
Villa Ahumada, eighty-three mile3
south to augment the Juarez garrison,
caused but passing comment.
Much interest centered In the num
ber of desitute Mexicans who are ar
riving in Juarez daily in the hope of
crossing into the United States to ob-
School Girls Tell of Party
at Marion Lambert's House
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i engagement ef Orpet to Miss Youker
WAUKEGAN. 111., June 17. Ten" and said she expected to fee him soon
school girls testified for the state to-j and ask about the rumor and that if
day In the case of William H. Orpet,
who is charged with the murder of
Marion Lambert. '
All were at Marion's birthday party
FehruaTy 6th. three d-iys before her
death and all testified that she was
cheerful and happy. Tears came to
her yes as they did to Anna Paulson
because the latter could not spend the
night with her, as had been a birth
day custom with tbem for years. '
The most interesting testimony,!
came from Florence R.issel, who rlept
th.it Light with Marion 'and they
talked much of Will Orpet, of his love
and of his temper, too.
Miss Rucsel testified that Marlon
ba'd discussed with her the reported
it were true she did not know what
she would do -
Be-direct examination brought put a
re'on-nce to Orpet's temper , and on
cross examination Attorney Potter,
for the defense asked what Marion
said about it. Witness replied.
"She said he used to get very ardent,
so much so that he lost his temper.
She said she liked to see him lose his
temper so r.he could get the better of
him." .
Keplying to a question from the
state's attorney, witness said:
"Marion said that she thought Jos
ephine Davis did like Orpet and that
was why Miss Davis came to visit her
some times"
tain work. Several hundred who ar
rived' today from the Torreor. and La-
guna. districts said Carranza officials
in those districts are giving free trans
portation to peon families who come
to the border. They pointed out that
in the districts there is a shortage of
food and little or no work and that the
officials feel t)at the problem can best
be solved ln this way.
General George Bell, Jr., command
ing the American border patrol, con
tinued tonight to keep all officers and
soldiers of Fort Bliss garrison in the
post awaiting "any developments" but
he reiterated the order was merely a
measure of preparedness. AVord was
received at military headquarters to
day that a train of twenty-seven mo
tor trucks has been shipped to El Paso
tT b? used in transportating troops and
supplies along the border when neces
scary.
The state department has authorized
employes here to spend government
money if necessary to get individual
Americans out of Mexico. Not so much
concern is felt over the old-timers who
cm ''s feU over the old timers who
have married Mexican wives and be
come more or less Mexicanized, .as the
mining men down in the Paral district
who are for the most part new to th3
country. ,
S'ewppapers from Mexico City re
print Carranza's decree calling for
muniiHpn! elections throughout the re
public on the first Sunday in Sep
tember. This decree states that no
person Is eligible for election who has
op;iosed the constitutionalist cause
either by f.rms or as an officeholder
under hostile factions.
An iviation school for civilians a
well as for army men will be set up
next week on the parade ground a
Fort Bliss by arrangement with the
military authorities. Harry Young
blood an aviator who holds a record
for bomb dropping, will be in charge
of the pchool. -
eral Parker at Brownsville to
have -published in the name of I
General Funston assurances to all
Mexicans on the American side
! whether of native or foreign birth,
i that an acceptance of Ihe situa- j
tion would guarantee to them the.
protection of the American army! j
! He asked General Parker to see to
it that this assurance reached all
I the more prominent Mexicans in i
i Brownsville up and, dow n the river, i i
General Funston will ask Governor
j Ferguson of Texas tomorrow to
! j endorse his action by similar as-
surances.
cots no
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, June 17. Eighteen hun
dred ' de facto Mexican cavalry men
who have been camped for two months
at Cuchuta, 35 miles south of here on
ncnnliur Kitmition hi arisen as i : UK .vraian loiuuau, mui
result of the fact that the new army i tay toward Carrietas pass, through
bill providing"- for federalization of the
militia will go into effect July 1 auto
matically repealing the present militia
law. 1 ne new act requires siaic
troops who participate in federal ap
propriations to take a dual oath of
allegiance. Only the Kansas guard is
required now to take such an oath,
and unless all the remaining units
(Continued on Page Two)
o
Mexicans Killed
by Yaqui Bands
on Sonora River
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
DOUGLAS- June 17. Four Mexi
cans were killed an tnree wuunueu
when Mina Riojo, a small village near
Baviacora on the Sonora river, was
captured late last week by a band of
Yaqui Indians under command of the
Mexican renegade Huerto, according
to Americans arriving here today Four
other Mexicans were killed the same
day at Puerto Tixnado, another nearby
settlement.
Baviacora, which is an important
town, was attacked early Friday morn
ing fjf last week, the Indians succeed
ing in gaining foothoid in the outskirts
of the town. Reports are conflicting as
to casualties, one report saying that
several Mexicans were killed and
wounded and another Yaquls merely
raided to obtain food.
Revised estimates of the number of
Yaquis engaged in raiding in Northern
Sonora place the number at approx
imately five hundred.
The Americans say that signal fires
are kept burning nightly on the high
mountains by the Indians.
The chief scene of the Indian activity
is from Ures to Huepac on the Sonora
border and on the eastern bank of the
Sonora river.
Although they have been reported
to be in the vicinity of Moctezuma no
raids have occurred in that vicinity
,as yet.
huahua. according to Americans ar
riving from the south, Colonel Gabriel
Jiminez is reported in command. j
It is claimed officially in Agua Prieta
that, these troops are going to Naco- i
zari, but men who say they met them
on the road say they were traveling i
away from Nacozari, riding southeast j
instead of south.
Excitement is at fever heat in Nor
thern Sonora, rumors concerning the
intentions of American troops to in
vade Mexican territory having gained
credence.
The civilian population is arming it
self, according to official statements of
Ives G. Lelevier, Mexican consul here,
preparatory to repelling any attempted
aggression.
Local feeling is high but well under
control of the officials. Added pre
cautions have been taken by the mili
tary authorities to prevent any out
breaks on this side of the line in the
event of hostilities.
It was currently rumored today and
believed by many people, including
United States army officers, that Gen
eral P. Elias Calles will endeavor to
hold Sonora in control, in the event of
a break. This is doubted by well in
formed Americans in Sonora, who say
that even though that were his inten
tion, feeling against Americans has
reached such a pitch In the state that
he-would find it .impossible to do so.
General Calles' entire force is es
timated at from sixteen to twenty
thousand men, mostly infantry. The
larger part of the army is in central
and southern Sonora engaged in the
Yaqui Indian campaign.
General Calles telegraphed General
Arneulfo Gomez, at Agua Prieta last
night, that he would leave Hermosillo
today for the border, expecting to ar
rive in Agua Prieta Monday, to take
personal command of the border situ
ation. . Apprehension is felt- here for the
safety of the several hundred Ameri
cans in mining camps of Sonora in the
event of hostilities, but Consul Lele
vier reiterated today that General
Calles has given his personal guaran-
Renublican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Tex.. June 1'
United States army officers at bead
quarters here tonight regarded the
Mexican situation as most serious.
Assuming that the de facto Mexican
government would authorize General
Alfredo Ritaut to carry out his threat
to attack any American force that
crossed tbe line into Mexico, some de-
I clared their belief that war was al
' most unavoidable.
The crisis was reached today when
moro tiian 3H0 men of the Third cav
' airy trossed the river below Browns
ville in pursuit of the bandits that
attacked a little detachment of the
Twenty-sixth infantry at San Benito
last night.
General James Parker, commanding
it .Brownsville, sent cavalry scouring
the country in the vicinity of San
Benito on a "hot trail" discovered by
Lieutenant Newman, commanding
trooji H. The trail led across the
river and Lieutenant Newman led his
troops across late in "the forenoon.
Major Anderson, with a squadron of
the same regiment and a machine
gun company, closed in on the same
trail and early in the afternoon fol
lowed the lieutenant and his troop
into Mexico. He was too late for the
fight and bloodless skirmish that had
taken place. Troop H engaged the
bandits almost immediately after get
ting on that side but General Parker
indicated none on either side was
injured. The bandits fled without
great resistance.
The pursuit was continued. Late
today Major Anderson had moved his
force up the river towards Mata
moros. the 'Mexican town opposite
Brownsville. He was still on the Mex
ican side tonight.
General Parker reported that he
had sent to Consul Garza in Browns
ville a note informing him that Amer
ican troops had crossed the interna
tional boundary in conformity with
the spirit of the agreement between
the two countries authorizing the
passage of troops when on a "hot
trail'' in pursuit of bandits. He also
called the attention cf the consul
to the fact that the bandits had been
run back to a district which Ameri
can authorities had long insisted was
a rendezvous cf the bandits and out
laws.
Consul Garza replied, acknowledging
receipt of General Parker's note, add
ing that he knew what it meant and
expressed his deep regret.
Army officers here regarded Con
sul Garza's note as a tacit admission
tbat he believed his government
would resent the entrance of this lat
est punitive expedition, perhaps even
to the point of attempting to force
it from the country.
General Parker reported to the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BROWNSVILLE, June 17. The sec
ond squadron of the Third United
States cavalry, upwards of 400 strong,
after a battle witlubandits, is sleeping
tonight on Mexican soil less than ten
miles from Matamoros, the Mexican
town opposite here, where the Mexican
population, fully armed with pistols
and rifles, is awaiting developments
with anxiety.
The soldiers' crossing was occasioned
by the pursuit of the cavalry under
command of Major Edward Anderson
and Lieutenant Newman on a "hot
trail" of Mexican bandits who attacked
detachments of the Twenty-sixth in
fantry near San Benito last night.
Crossing, which was started at 10
o'clock, had finished at sundown with
out a mishap of any kind, at a point
about ten miles from here. The point
of crossing is known as Naranjos, a
small Mexican river settlemenL
Writhin a half hour after the first
troops had crossed, volleys of shots
were heard from the brushy ambushes
on the Mexican side of the river, indi
cating that at least a part of the thirty
bandits had been encountered. They
were known to have been chased across
the river by Lieutenant A. D. Newman
and Troop II of the Third cavalry'. No
casualties on either side attended the
crossing.
A field wireless apparatus has been
established on the American aide of the
river tonight which will keep in clos
touch with the Fourth punitive expe
dition into Mexico. Troop H was tho
first body of soldiers to cross the river.
Most of the day these soldiers ex
changed shots with bandits after tht
small expedition had crossed the Rio
Gra.nde but the sole "casualty" waa
one Mexican bandit's horse. It was
brought to the bank of the Rio Grande
as a souvenir.
After an all-night chase. Lieutenant
Newman's troops ran the bandits win.
attacked the infantry detachment from
a point east of the sleeping town of
San Benito fifteen miles to the bank
of the Rio Grande, near the San Pedro
ranch. Here the band apparently
split in two sections, one crossing thw
river above the ranch and the other
below. The cavalry followed by the
northern ford.
At 11 o'clock this morning, after
spending one hour on Mexican soil.
Lieutenant Newman's command cami,
in contact with the marauders, and a
lively, though bloodless, skirmish en
sued, neither being able to see the other
on account of the dense brush.
After crossing the river, Newman
dispatched a messenger to inform head
quarters at Fort Brown of his cross-
ng. The messenger, a private of
Troop H. lost his horse in the middle
of the Rio Grande, and swam to the.
other side, almost losing his own life.
The trail of blood, followed last night
by the cavalry, led to the body of a
Mexican peon. 1 His only possessions
were two bullet holes, a rifle and some
ammunition. He carried no papers
which might have disclosed his name
or affiliations.
The situation iiv Matamoros tonight
was serious. Every business house in
the town was closed with the excep-
tion of one saloon. In this rendezvous
were gathered army officers who gave
out threats calculated to arouse the
already alarmed people Into a frenzy.
General Alfredo Ricaut, commander
of the Matamoros garrison, did not
learn of the crossing of American
troops into Mexico until early in tho
afternoon. He then called the popula
tion of the' town together at his head
quarters, where he distributed rifles,
pistols and ammunition to men, boys
and even girls. By mid-afternoon at
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Two)f
Trevinos Threat is Taken
Seriously by Gen. Pershing
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS, June 17. The Ameri
can punitive expedition in Mexico is
sleeping on its arms, prepared for any
eventuality. According to reports here
tonight, General Jacinto Trevino's
threat is taken seriously by the army
men here, more especially since he oc
cupied the better part of last week re
American troops are being redisposed
in sections where surprise attacks might
be possible. Outposts in every direc
tion have been withdrawn and de
tailed to vantage points for protective
purposes.
Wrhile no immediate attack is looked
for yet, General Pershing is taking ev
ery precaution to protect his command,
it is said. It is understood also that
(Continued on Pag Two;
forming bis entire line south of Nami-J General Pershings' instructions from
nis superiors give mm penect rreedom
of action in case of attack by the Mex
ican de facto troops.
Meantime, ammunition and supplies
were being rushed from Columbus to
Namiquipa ' in huge quantities today
and tonight.
quipa.
American scout patrols have been de
tailed to watch the Mexican Northwes
tern railway to prevent any surprise
troop movements from north or south.
Information leaking through from
the south today indicates that the
