,»
1W-«
EXTRA!
"ir
Clash With Bandits.
Mexican bandits and United States
troops fought on Mexican soil today,
after a long chase over the border
which started when Lieut.. Newman
crossed the international boundary on
a "hot trail" of the ibands which at­
tacked detachments of the 26th in­
fantry near San Benito last night. Re
p,or,ts Jiere indicate that there have
been no casualties and tonight the
second squadron of the United States
3rd iCttValry, upward of 400 strong,
under command of Major Anderson,
is sleeping on Mexican soil less than
10 miles from Matamoras, where the
Mexican population, fully armed with
piiitols and rifles, is awaiting develop­
ments with anxiety-
Crossing which was started at 10
o'clock, had finished at sundown with
out mishap of any kind, fit a point
about 10 miles from here. The point
of crossing is known as Naranjos, a
small Mcx'can river settlement.
Within a half hour after the first
troop had crossed, volleys of shots
were heard from the brushy ambush
Bide of the Mexican border indicating
at least a party of 30 bandits had been
encountered. TUey were known to
have been chased across the river by
Lieut. A. N. Newman and Troop "H"
of the 3rd Cavalry.
Wireless Established.
A Held wireless apparatus has been
established on the American side of
the river tonight, which will keep in
close touch with the fourth punitive
expedition into Mexico. Troop "H"
was the first body of soldiers to cross
the river. Most of the day these sol­
diers engaged shots with bandits, af­
ter a small expedition bad crossed
the Rio Grande, but the sole "casual­
ty" was one Mexican bandit horse.
The situation at Guaymas is criti­
cal, due to the inability of the de
facto government to redeem the last
issue of currency as was promised.
Merchants refused to increase their
stock, which can be done only from
the United States, and then only for
gold, because the de facto officials ar­
bitrarily place a valuation on the
goods upon their arrival in the city,
and then flx a selling ptice.
Situation Serious.
United States army officers at head­
quarters here tonight regarded the
Mexican situation as most serious.
Assuming that the Mexican de fa£to
government would authorize Gen. Hi
caut to carry out his threats to attack
any American force that crossed tjje
line into Mexico, some declared that
war was almost unavoidable.
That opportunity was presented to­
day, when more than 300 men of the
cavalry crossed the river below
Brownsville in pursuit of bandits that
attacked a little detachment of the
26th Infantry at San Benito last night.
Gen. James .Parker, commanding at
Brownsville, sent cavalry scouring
the country in the vicinity of San Ben­
ito and on the "hot trail" discovered
by Lieut. Newman, commanding troop
H, the Americans were sent toward
the border. They trailed across the
river, and Lieut. -Newman led his
troops across late in the forenoon.
Maj. Anderson, with a squad of
the same regiment and a machine gun
company, closed in on the same trail,
and early in the afternoon followed
the lieutenant and troops Into Mex­
ico. He was too late for the fight.
(Continued from Page Two.)
,rissig^"'vi~-vH•
THIRTY-SIXTH TEAS, NO. 146 (HEWS OF THE WORLD)
—0— —0 -0—
IITIVE
Mexican Consul Closes His Office at
Brownsville and Crosses Over to
Mexican Soil.
BELIEVED ADDITIONAL MILITIA
WILL BE CALLED TO COLORS
Brownsville, June 17.—Carranza Consul »J. Z. (Jar/a, stationed
here, delivered early- tonight General Alfredo Rieaut's ultimatum
to General James Parker, Brownsville commander, that unless the
Anderson punitive expeditions were withdrawn, an attack would
ihe made by Carranza troops. Immediately after, Consul Garza
closed the consulate and moved to ilatamoras
Additional United States troops, including a portion of the
28th infantry and the remainder of the Third cavalry under the
command of Colonel A. P. Blockson were en route to Saranzos to­
night, the point of crossing of a squadron of a Third cavalry in­
to Mexico today, to reinforce those alreadv sent in.
MEXICAN WOMAN ARMED
Fifteen hundred men, even \vomen and girls, were patroling
the streets of Matamqras, opposite here, under arms distributed to
tbem todayjby AlfredojKicaut, commanded of the Carranza garri­
son here- Intense excitement prevails wi$ni. the presence of the
American troops 10 miles south of the town.
Telegram to Governor Hanna In
dicates President May Act
Soon.
GUARD TO MEET
ACT REQUIREMENTS
Acting Secretary of War Urges
Prompt Action by North
Dakota.
North Dakota's militia may be call­
ed out. This is the interpretation
put upon the telegram received yes­
terday by Gov. Hanna, urging him to
see that the national guard meets a#
soon as possible the requirements o£
the Hay bill, or the military act ot
June 3, 1916.
Acting Secretary of War Ingrahatn
signed the message. He declares
that recognition must be deferred un
tii after receipt of the report that
the new contract of enlistment has
been made and the new oatfi of oflive
administered.
Will Get Federal Aid.
Conformation with these require­
ments will give the militia federal
aid.
"I have already taken steps," said
Gov. Hanna, "to assist the adjutant
general in bringing about the reorgan­
ization. Without exception the offi­
cers and men are in favor of meeting
the requirements.
"Not only this, but the boys are
willing and anxious to be called out.
Not a day goes by but that I get let:
ters from men asking that in case of
.trouble with Mexico or other coun
triees they may be permitted to help
raise companies or to serve as chap:
lains, doctors, officers or privates.
Women have also communicated with
me, expressing their desire to serve
in the Red Cross.
Long Waiting List
"I believe that I have a longer
waiting list of men and women ready
to respond to the call of their country
than any other governor. The people
of 'North 'Dakota are not lacking in
patriotism."
The National Guard of North Da­
kota is generally admitted to be sec­
ond to none and to be far superior to
that of most of the states. This will
greatly lessen the taskf of reorgan­
ization.
The adjutant general was in Min­
neapolis yesterday and could not be
reached.
VOLKSZEITUNG OUT FOR HUGHES
St Paul, Minn., June 17.—The Volk
szeitung, a leading German daily pa­
per, has come out for Hughes.
-y£-
pmatck
.^r'.y- w--^-/^f
L. B. HANNA
sijiif.
Sfl-JP*
»v
The Governor will order out the Commander of North Dakota's Regi
Troops ment called to the colors
SECRETARY OF WAR SENDS
MOBILIZATION ORDERS TO
GOVERNOR L. B. HANNA
HANNA ISSUES ORDERS.
Governor Hanna received first word of the mobilization or
dcrfirom the'Ttibtoneover the long1 diatomee ttl^hone tost even­
ing. .He said:
"I am wiring Adjutant General Tharaldso'n and Col. Fraine
tonight to send out the mobilization orders to all captains and
designate Fort Lincoln as the concentration point."
General Tharaldson is in Minneapolis, but will be summoned
by wire tonight. .Major R. Steedman, Retired, Governor Han­
na's military secretary, and Lieutenant Turner will assist in the
general mobilization.
Governor Hainna spoke at New Salem and Almont last even­
ing to enthusiastic crowds Moro than 1500 people attended a
meeting north of New Salem.
To Hon. Louis B. Manna, (jovemor of Norfli Dakota:
Having in view the possibility of
As organized militia by the war department, Circular li),
division.-of .militia affairs, 1914, proscribes the organizations de­
sired from each state as part of Ihe local laetical division, and
only th'ese organizations will be accepted into the service. It- is
requested, that all officers of the adjutant, general's department,
quartermaster corps and medical corps, duly recognized as per­
taining to state headquarters, under Table 1. Tallies of Organiza­
tion, organized militia and not e'sewhere required for duty in
state administration, be ordered to camp for duty as camp staff
officers.. Such number of these staff officers as the department
commander may determine may be mustered into the service of
the department commander of the United States for the purpose
of proper camp administration a?1(i will be mustered out when
their services are no /onger required. Where recognized brigades
or divisions are called into service from a state, the staff officers
pertaining to these units under Tables of Organization, United
States army, will be mustered in*0 service, and also the author­
ized inspectors of small arms practice pertaining thereto, except
for these two purposes of mobilisation camp service and of the
prescribed staff service with tact'011', unit, officers of state head­
quarters under Table 1, above mentioned. will not be mustered
nto servic at this time If tactical divisions are later organized,
the requisite additional number staff officers with rank as pr
escribed for divisions will, as far practicable be called into
service from those states which have furnished troops to such di­
vision.
V-
BISMARCK, NORTH DAKOTA, SUNDAY MORNING, JUNE 18, 1916.
STATE MILITIA CALLED OUT BY PRESIDENT
War Is Threatened "Between United States and Mexico
BE FACTO COVERNMENT IMS
ll
COLONEL FRAINE
I'iii'IIht iuucessioii
territory of the I'nitcd States from Mexico ami the necessity for
the proper protection of the frontier, the President lias thought
proper to exdreise the authority vested in liiiu by the constitu­
tion and the laws and call out the organized militia and the na­
tional guard necessary for that purpose 1 am, in consequence, in­
structed by the President to call into I lie service of the United
State forthwith, through you, the following units of the organ­
ized militia and the national guard of the si air of North Dakota,
which the president directs shall be assembled at the state mo­
bilization point, Fort Lincoln, .or at the places lo be designated
to you by the commanding general of the Central department,
for muster into the service of the United Slates: One regiment,
of infantry organizations, to be accepted into the fedvral service
should have the minimum peace strength at which organizations
will be accepted and to which they should be raised as soon as
possible, is prescribed in Section 2, Tables of Organization, Unit­
ed States army. In case any regiment, battalion or squadron now
recognized as such contains an insufficient number of organiza­
tions to. enable, it to conform at muster to the regular army or­
ganization tables, the organizations necessary lo complete such
units may be moved to mobilization camp and there inspected un­
der orders of the department commander to determine Jtheir fit­
ness for recognition
NEWTON" D. BAKER,
Secretary of .Wax.
r,.
—0— —0 —o —0-
upon the
Srtlmui.
IS RUDY TO
CO TO
STATE'S REGIMENT OF NATIONAL
GUARD IS FULLY EQUIPPED
FOR ACTION
11 .in
TROOPS WILL GATHER
AT FORT LINCOLN
ADJUTANT GENERAL OUT OF
CITY BUT MEN ANXIOUS TO
SERVE COUNTRY
North Dakota has one regiment of
Ihe national guard, with a total en­
rollment og 800. The men are fully
equipped and ready for service.
Mobilization of the troops will be at
Fort Lincoln. The troops can bo
mobilized within 4S hours.
Adg. -den. Tharalson has been out
of town for several days and couldn't
be reached tonight.
THE ANNUAL INSPECTION
OF COMPANY A,
From the Tribune, May. 1.
Company A stood its annual iospec
lion last niht at the Armory, under
Lieutenant K. H. Turner, U. S. A., and
Col. John Irl. Fraine, 1st reiment in
fantry, N. D. X. G. Captain Welcvh
i»WPU
niented by the inspection officer on the
fine physical appearance of the mem­
bers. The present war scare with
Mexico has stimulated interest and
Company A will have a waiting list
fr enlistment in a few days. There
are many old members of Co. A and
Philiuino veterans who will re-enlist,
at I lie first opportunity. The company
was put. through the usual close and
ovl.endcd other drills, manual of anna
and regular inspection ceremony.
Need Ten More Men
There aren now r»S members in the
company. Captain Welch informed
the Tribune that be has use for
about I en more good men for the
company. An informal dinner was
served in the. Armory after inspection
by Company A. Those present, at the
dinner were: Col. .John II. Fraine,
Major Mauley, Mandan Lieutenant
Turner. U. S. A. Cap). Solum, Man
dan: Lieut. Dr. McLaughlin. Bis­
marck, of Ihe S. Captain Wing,
former commanded of Co. A. Lieu­
tenants Graham and Preston and
Captain Welch of Co. A.
Pleasure was expressed by the
members of Co. A and the inspection
officers at the courtesy extended by
the Tribune in sending to the Armory
Ihe telegraphic reports of the war­
like conditions on the Mexican fron­
tier.
The officers and men of the com­
pany were highly gratified to see so
many citizens in the gallery and along
the sides during the inspection. A
cordial invitation is extended to the
public to have the citizens attend afy
of the meetings of the company.
In a conversation relative to the
readiness of the state militia for ser­
vice in the Mexican field should it be
called in to the national service. Col.
Fraine. First Regiment, N. D. N. G.,
said:
"We have a peace footing of 750
men. and this division can ve moved
within comparatively few hours.
There is also our big reserve list,
men who served in the Spanish war
and former members of the state
militia, who can be called upon anfl
who will eagerly respond to a call
for volunteers. We can furnish a
regiment of 1,800 men as soon as
the government furnishes us the nec­
essary equipment."
Bismarck Boys Want to Go
Company A, which underwent in-'
spection Friday night, is in excellent
condition and has 58 members who
were at the inspection. Captain
Welch and his boys feel fit for any­
thing that may arise and Bismarck
can be proud of its military organ­
ization.
Company Ready
Company of Mandan is also in
good shape. They are ready, it is re­
ported, for instantaneous response to
the call of the nation and all seem
most anxious to go to the aid of the
citizens of the United States in the
war-torn zones of Mexico.
Twelve Companies
The 12 militia companies in the
state are located at Bismarck. Man­
dan, Grafton, Wahpeton. Fargo. Val­
ley •City, Jamestown, Williston and
Minot.
In addition to this, there is a splen­
didly drilled hospital corps and hand
at Lisbon.
.vl
(BY ASSOCIATEb P2E8S)
While it was apparent that Gen.
Pershing's reply would be backed up
by officials here, it was not indicated
what further action the Washington
government might take. Secretary
Baker took the text of Gen. Trevino's
ultimatum to the Wlhite House and
conferred with the president tonight.
No Additional Troops.
After his conference with President
Wilson, Secretary Baker said he had
ordered no additional troops to the
border and that Gen. Pershing had
asked for no reinforcements.
"I look for no immediate trouble
there," said the secretary. "The sit­
uation seems to be not imminent."
Although the war department had
no reports tonight on developments
beyond the border at Brownsville,
dispatch came from Gen. Funston,
telling of a raid by 50 bandits near
San Benito, Texas, of their repulse by
a detachment of the 26th Infantry
under Col. Bullard, and of the cross­
ing of Lieut. Newman into Mexico
(Continued on Pas* Two)
-o- —0- *o—
PUNITIVE EXPEDITION
PAUSES AFTER SUCCESSFUL
OF
'Washington, June 18.—Announcing the president's decision!
late today, Secretary Baker said the militia would be sent to
the border wherever and as fully as General Fuuston determines
tlicni to be needed.
BAKER'S STATEMENT.
Secretary Baker issued the following statement: "In view of
1 lie* disturbed conditions on the Mexican border and in order to
assure complete protection for all Americans, tilie President has
called out substantially all tlie state militja and will send them
to the border, wherever General Fnnston determines them to be
needed, for the purpose stated:
"If all are not needed, an effort will be made to relieve those
on duty there from time to time, so as to distribute the duty.
This call for militia is wholly unrelated to General Pershing's
expedition and contemplates no additional entry into Mexico, ex­
cept as may be necessary to pursue bandits who atteippt outrages
on all American soil. The militia are being called out so as to
leave some troops in the several states. They will be mobilized
at their home stations where necessary recruiting can be done."
DISTRIBUTION NOT DETERMINED.
I'roportionmeut of militia which will actually be sent to the
border has not been determined upon by the war department. A
statement now is being prepared and wjll be issued later tonight,
showing just how many troops from each state will be taken into
the federal service.
Tucsotn, Ariz., Junc,: 18.—Sotyoru military authorities have
seized the Southern Pacific of Mexico system and cut all tele­
graph wires at the border, according to private advices here late
today.
MEXICANS CUT WIRES.
Advises from. Nogales, Ariz, state that all the telephone
Ay
ires between that
toAvn
and Nogales, Sonora, have been severed
ib.V tiio wires. All the state and federal of­
ficials have also left A'gua Priet'a and Naeo.
ENTIRE N. D. REGIMENT CALLED.
Among the organizations of militia and national guards call­
ed out by telegrams to various governors, with places of assombly
designated, are:
North Dakota—One regiment of infantry, at Fort Lincoln.
Minnesota—One brigade of three regiments of infantiy, one
regiment of field artillery, at Fort duelling.
South Dakota—One regiment of infantry, at Redfield.
Montana—One regiment of infantry, at. Fort William Ham-
IS
I
Secretary Baker LayB Mexican
General's Ultimatum Before
Wilson.
OTHER BORDER RAIDS
ARE REPORTED
Washington, June 17.—Confirmation
of Gen. Trevino's warning that any
movement of American troops in Mex­
ico, except toward the border, would
be treated by the Carranza command­
ers as a hostile act reached the war
department late today. Secretary Ba­
ker declined to comment or to make
public Gen. Trevino's message, or the
reply of Gen. Pershing, refusing to
recognize the .authority of the Car­
ranza general over the American ex­
pedition.
FOURTH EXPEDITION RETIRES
Hrownsville, Texas, June 18.—Hav.
ing accomplished its object, the dis­
persing of Mexican bandits who Fri­
day night raided Texas ranches and
attacked detachment of Twenty-sixth.
Infantry east of San Benito, Texas,
and upon promises of Caranza com­
mander at Matamorost that he would
run down and punish the outlaws.
The Fourth American punitive ex­
pedition to enter Mexico was with*
drawn today. There were no Ameri­
can casualties. Two bandits vere
Wiled and two wounded in a rear
guard action when the Americans be­
gan to withdraw.
Troops Await Developments
The troops are about twenty miles^
west of Brownsville, awaiting de­
velopments after having, according to
(•eneral James Parkers official report
and cleaned out a nest of bandits on
ranches opposite the San Pedro.
These ranchers included tabuachal
ranch, about ten miles west of Jifatt
inoros, which is noted as a bandit
haven.
Situation Believed Grave
Military authorities tonight
regard­
ed the situation as
fraught with
grave possibilities.
casioned by the
Although tht
John Read.
treat
were to
This was oc­
apparent fact that If
was a detachment of
soldiers of the
Americans as they
co.
tume was found
about sixteen
Mexican Defacto Gov­
ernment commanded by
who led the
a lieutenant
rear guard attack on
were leaving Mexi­
Wore Carranza Uniform
This officer was
killed, and his cos­
to be composed part­
ly of the uniform
ofa Caranza soldier.
official report of the
fight to the army
headquarters said
one was killed and two
was confirmed in
crossed to United
wounded. It
Matamoroq tonight
that two Mexicans
were killed in this
attack on the rear
guard was made
after two troops and
a machine gun
troop of the Third
Cavalry h»4 re-
States. Troop* E
and commanded by
Lieutenants.
Jr. and Pesbody,- were
back from the river,
to
covering the
the Rio
Grande.
Reports Appearance of land.
Outpost reported
appearance of a
small
band of munted men, wh# on
seeing
the Americans, opened life.
Troops
quickly
replied and Was Join­
ed by Troop F.
Firing continued for
ten minutes at
a range of approxi­
mately five hundred*
were seen to
yards. Two men
have fallen from' their
horses. It is
supposed liiwtemt
aid
of
one of thosfe wounded
and was struck by two bollets»' one to
the back of the neck.
Cavalry Charges KejUcwia
Cavalry then charged
Mexicans, wttt
(Continued oa Pa- TwfT
-ft
