11
DAILY EDITION
vol, vi., No. as i.
GIMXTJ PA88, JOSEPHINE COUNTS OREGOX,
SUNDAY, 41' UK tH, J10.
WHOLE NUMBER 1775.
1. r,
'v0 Other Town in the World tho Size of Grants Pass Has a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service.
J! J LL-'i1- ...
WOULD OPEN
SMELTER AT
Till
V lining Hen Interested ia
Prcpctiea fcr Petting bto
Ccnunhsioa Plant fcr Hacd-
I!-- ftJTIf Tl.i h.MJL.
Lf VIC VI v k.l.U y
if
.'. r r a.- Its capture baa not oeen aeniea
The mining men of the district are from Vienna. ' 'v.
Interesting themselves at present In J prom few miles north of Tarn
the proposition of placing the Takll-opol to Brody. the Austrlans have
ina amelter la commission again. The AM. duo. aayi
use of the smelter Is mad almost lm- Ptrograd, to the faA that the great
peratlva through the arbitrary action "0,enc 5"M," ve has
of the Tacoroa smelter, which baa In,"" norh, nd of
the past meived the most ot the this sector. - . -nlpmenu
of ore from this dl.trlot.1 ' d " f'
' Ta high price of copper baa caused ' f f'm 'k
e.11 the mines thai bava' patronised Aurtrlan pressure against the
ta Tacoma Institution In the past to the Trentlno front. King
Increase their output, and because of Victor Emmanuel of lUly has con
the heavy sbjpmenta of ore to, amel- gratulated .the csar on the auccesa of
ter a,uthorlUes have become moat In- th 8, offwalTo. .
t dependent In dealing with tbja dla-l ' , ... ...... . ., ,.y., .
trlct. They have recently adopted a
policy whereby the email shipper
Brietlcallv nut out of the market
. 'working a great narwnip on ue man
who la trying to develop a mine from
the returns on ore shipments.
The Takllma smelter has not been
In operation since 1IQ8, though It,
.....I 4k.l . Il k Ik.'
.""-''-w-rttd-.oB the entire Vol
owners of, the Queen of Bronsa and . - : , ,
allied claims. It Is of 100-ton daily byataa . eroat. according to todays
capacity, and can be made to handle report from the Austro-Hungarlan
ISO tons per day In case the ore la headquarters. Several attempts of
available by crowding It to Its limit, the Russians to cross the river Styr
Thle Is more than the present dally failed, the Russians suffering heavy
output of the mines In the Imme- losses. , ' i
dlate vicinity of the smelter, though The report was from headquarters
If It should be placed In commission yesterday, and waa received here to
the mines would at once Increase day. U reads: ,
their output as fully aa possible to On the south Dnelster our troops
keep the smelter running on full repulsed the enemy's cavalry. West
time. of Visvovcsyk no Russians are mak-
It la estimated that It would re- ln, macks njsinjt our posltlqn.
fjulre an expendltnre ot from M.900 Here we took two officers and 400
. to 15,000 to repair and Improve the men pirlaonera. There Is nothing to
amelter. The coke and ore bins report from near Taruopol. On the
would fcava to be rebuilt, aa would wnole volhynlaa front new combats
aJso the dust chamber, aaya A. 1L have started. - On the Styr several
Ounnell, who hae recently given tho eemy attempta to cross the river
matter much attention. The amelter failed, the enemy, as usual, suffer
la In an excellent location, aa It hae jng eaormoua losses.
at hand the lime, sulphur, Iron and 0n the Italian front the report
silica -needed. The coke would be cUlmi (j,, repulse of several Italian
a yftlpped la. going by rail through attacks and the suocess ot Austrian
Grants Pass, and would be an In. attacks at Takatop and Hindmost,
centlve for the rushing ot construe .. . - ,
tar would need about two. cars or
coke dally.
At h various mines tributary to
the smelter there are now .5.000 to
30.000 tone ot low grade ores on the
dump, thla not having been consider-
-d Rood enough to stand the long
haul by wagon to the ahlpping point.
Wh the smelter In operation, this
rould be worked along with the high-
. -..4.. n.a Kalni tnlnail.
PACIFIC COAST Al) MUX
HOW) WVKNTIOSjhM ftlg0 hftd the conrerenCe8 with
Spokane, June 17. President Wll
aon and Republican Candidate Char
les US. aiughes were urged to supitort
legislation for "truth In adverting"
In telegrams sent them by the Pacific
Coat Advertising Men's association,
ln convention here. The delegates
tonight will leave Spokane on a
special train for Glacier Pafk.
WIIKW OP TITANIC
. . VICTIM WUiL WKI
New York, June 17. Madeline
Force Aator, widow of John Jacob
Astoh who went down with the
' Titanic, Is to be married next week to
Wm. K. Dick, vice-president ot the
JJManufacturers Trust company ot New
York, according to a atory appearing
In the Brooklyn Times-Union today.
. Olck is a part owner and director
. of the company which publishes the
' Brooklyn Times-Union.
E
T
London, June 17. That the Aus
trlana, driven back from their first
Una ot trenches on the eastern front
have settled into new position! of
strength and are stubbornly resitting
the (Russian advance, la the conclu
sion gained here from tho fart that
the . Russian official report' does not
carry statements of tremendous Rains
dally, as Id the first few dare after
Jna Captur of Csernowlts la not
vet officially confirmed, though re
ported unofficially from several sour
... m a
91
BELIEVES
PISS
III II
u
'RIM'S MIL Id
CROSS fliER STYR
Vienna, June 17. New combats
Ill'OII AND ItOOHKVEIiT
- ,
; New York, June 17. -Progressive
lexers believe efforts are being made
through Intermediaries today to bring
bout an agreement between Colonel
Roosevelt and Judge Hughes, 'before
the meeting of the progressive
national committee In Chicago on
Jltne 20.
George VV. Fcrktns has been In
constant touch with the colonel since
ha hn hnon 111 tn hta hntat hark, and
aovornor Whitman, who, in turn,
conferred with Hughes. .
TAKE mm IN
OREGON LAND CASE
San Francisco, Jnne 17. Govern
ment prosecutors were surprised to
day at the testimony ot Franklin P.
Bull, attorney, on of the defendants
In the Oregon land trial.
' Bull declared oq the witness stand
that he Intended to refund money
collected from applicants for quarter-sections
It they did not get the
land.' v ".'
Bull Is accused - oft haying taken
money to place settlers on desirable
property andahau with, failure to ful
fil his edntract. '
General Trevb Seds Ultbatca to General Pcrsting,
Stafcg That 11 Aiy Here d Usxk Sdiiers
Enter Soalkero RepubHc They Will Be Meld, and
Warning Against Uovcg Fartler Scdi b His Gentry
June 17. General Funston re
ceived ' a telegram from General
Pershing this afternoon, giving the
text ot General Trevlno'a "ultima
tum" and Pershing's reply.
Funston transmitted both mes
sages to the war department He
declined to give out their contents,
but It Is known Pershing's reply was
emphatic. It la Inferred that Persh
ing told Trevlno to "pop hie whip."
Washington. ' June 17. Mexicans
will attack American troopa It any
more of the latter cross the border,
of "If there la any attempt to move
troopa," according to a message Gen
era! Trevlno iiaa telegraphed to Gen
eral Pershing, General Bell reported
to the war department today, through
General Funston. ,
"General Bell telephoned that Gen
era) Trevlno had telegraphed ' Gen
eral Pershing that If any more troops
crossed the border they would to at
tacked, or It any attempt to move
any more troopa is made they will
be attacked." said Funston's tele
gram,.' ' ,-
; Acting Secretary of War Scott la
announcing the message, emphasised
th fact that the word had not come
from Pershing himself. It was taken,
however, aa official confirmation of
Trevlno'a previously reported action,
Inasmuch aa Bell made his statement
flatly and did not quaWy It with any
suggestion that the Trevlno message
was merely rumored.
Another message revealed that
Major Gray had returned to San
Ignaclo, after having crossed Into
Mexico yesterday. The message ex
plained that the crossing - was be
cause ot reports of more bandit ac
tivities, but added that the Mexican
authorities had offered to cooperate
and that the bandit gang In that
vicinity was broken up.
After two daya ot reassuring re
ports of conditions In Mexico, there
were, reports today showing a re
birth of- civilian 'unrest and excite
ment, It was learned, at the state de
partment '
The atlte department admittedly
waa anxloua to learn whether General
Trevlpo actually was acting under or
ders from Carransa in sending the
note, as he stated to Pershing. They
hoped It would be shown that Tre
vlno exceeded his instructions, either
Intentionally or otherwise.
In any event, eorae officials be
lieved the communication to Pershing
could not be overlooked and coming ,
as It does on the heels of the last,
Carransa note was called "too
abrupt."
. Officials admitted that the "situa
tion carries a degree of extreme dan-,
ger." But they added that there will
be neither war nor Intervention ex
cept through some overt act, such as .
an attack on American forces 'by rec-'
ogntzed Carransa troops. Thta they
do not expect.
Border raids will not force this
government's position. f
Consul Gyant. of Progreso (east
coast) today reported 14 Americans,
have left there ln the last few days, '
while other reports show Americans
are steadily passing through Laredo
and Eagle Pass en route home.
One thousand Americans remain In
Mexico City.
Tamplco.
About 1,800 are ln
El Paso,' lune U.-Three thousand
troopa In the Juares garrison were
reinforced today by several hundred
fresh soldiers who arrived during the
nlKht and encamped II miles east ot
W Paso! '
, 'Wlth Juares civilians arming and
General Bell at Fort iBUss holding
every man in his command ready for
any emergency, the situation this af
ternoon waa admittedly dangerous.
. However, aeveral alarming reports
were discounted by official advices.
General Obegon, Carransa'a war
minister, telegraphed Consul Garcia
at CI Paso a denial that General
Gavlra had been executed, aa a morn
ing newspaper published. Gavlra has
not reached Mexico City yet. Obregon
stated.; ;
The atatement that 1,000 Juares
civilians had been armed by tbe Car
ransa commander, waa proved false.
also. Only 40 Juares residents an
swered tho call for military training
and they were armed.
All civilians who answered tbe call
have , been promised Carraaza
weapons. Anti-American demonstra
Uona plotted In secret meetings In
Juares are aaid to have been pre
vented by cooler heads.
Washington, June 17. Today's de
velopments In tbe Mexican situation
caused more uneasiness among ad
ministration officials than they have
admitted tor aome time. ' v
What some of these admitted ;aa
the most significant development was
the arrival of Consul Hanna, station
ed at Monterey, at Laredo, Texas, thla
morning. The state department some
time ago telegraphed all American
consuls In Interior Mexican cities that
they were" at liberty to leave Mexico
"at their discretion. ;
Report or Hanna s return was
made officially to the department this
afternoon. No. reason waa given for
his action.
It was said, at the department that
the order, to consuls to return when
they thought necessary waa given
ahortly before several consuls were
ordered to the border for a confer-
ence.
In connection with this explanation
the- state, department Insisted no ape-
clflo order was given for consuls to
laayo.
There are only two other consuls
remaining ip the, Interior of Mexico.
,They are Dickinson at San Luis Po-
tosi and. Sllllman at Saltlllo.
Consul Rodger? at Mexico City Is
engaged on diplomatic father than
consular duties, and is not affected
by the, order. -
State department officials anxiously
awaited a report from Hanna as to
h,ls reasons for leaving his post. While
they admitted the reason may have
deep significance, they said also that
conditions locally may have caused
him to leave.
Columbus, N. M., June 17. The
border waa excited by wild rumor
today, but authorities here at 8 a. m.
said there was no confirmation of
the report that Carransa had threat
ened hostilities If the American
troops In Mexico moved ln any direc
tion except back toward the border.
Laredo, Texas, June 17. Carransa
troopa In Neuvo Laredo are reported
to have received Instructions to re
sist any attempt by American forces
to cross into ' Mexico, regardless of
circumstances. The majority of the
bandits who escaped to the Mexican
side after the raid on San Ignaclo
are said to be concentrating near
Neuvo Laredo.
El Paso, June 17. Carransa la re
ported to have established the pre
sent location ot the American puni
tive expedition as a "dead Ine." Au
thorities,' pointed to growing evidences
of Carransa'a hostility to the expedi
tion's continued stay on Mexican soil.
(Continued on Page Six.)
THE DEMOCRATIC
E PLAN K
FAILS TO PLEASE
8t. Louis, June 17. Suffragists,
almost unanimously, don't like the
democratic platform's suffrage plank.
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, president
ot the National Woman's Suffrage as
sociation, today wired President Wil
son for his interpretation of it. Her
message read: '' ' .
"Inasmuch as Governor Ferguson
of Texas and Senator Walsh of Mon
tana made diametrically opposite
statements la the democratic conven
tion with regard to youir attitude to
ward the suffrage plank adopted by
tbe convention, we appeal to you
dlrectl yj to state your position on the
plank and give your Interpretation of
its meaning." , ; ; , . ,
Miss. Ann Martin, chairman of the
woman's party, said she' would return
to Washington Immediately to renew
the effort before congress took defin
ite action. v.-' .
"II congress does not sea fit to pass
the resolution for a constitutional
amendment," ahe said,."war will fol
low.
JOB fi FBIllffi
sip ran
Slsson, CaL, June 17. Three hut
jdred uea fought all. night and con
tinued fighting today against a forest
Are. which raced along the railroad
six miles south of hero and devas
tated a thousand acres of land. The
,ftre, which started In Big Canyon
yesterday afternoon, endangered the
Pioneer Box company plant and i big
Southern Pacific railroad trestle. A.
Southern Paclflo fir train eared the
trestle. Back-firing saved tho box
factory.
The California 4 . Oregon Power
company lost 8Q poles and Dunsmnir
was In darkness last night
Early today the fire ' Jumped the
state highway and swept northeast
It la expected that It will burn Us If
out when it reaches tbe Mcdoud
road. The land northeast ot tbe
highway is covered with second
growth forest trees.
WHERE IS GIAOOMO ITCCm?
San Francisco, June 17. Where is
Glacomo Puccini? Every effort was
made todsv bv the- rorasnlsa.tIoB
committee of the General Petroleum
company to get in touch wlthiPucclnl.
composer of "Madam Butterfly" and
other famous operas, who owns $10,-
000 worth ot the corporation's six
percent bonds, which are In a bank
here. Unless these securities are de
posited with the Mercantile Trust
company before June 28, tho date
of the foreclosure sale, Puccini will
not be able to participate ln the bene
fits ot that sale. All ' attempts to
find tolm have been In vain. '
BULL MOOSE AND
G. 0. P.
E
New York, June 17. Conferences
looking toward the reunton of tbe
progressives and G. O. P. are pro
gressing satisfactorily,. George W.
Perkins announced thla afternoon
after a two-hours' conference with
Colonel Roosevelt. ,
"There are a number ot confer
ences under way," Perkins said. "As
yet there Is nothing absolutely de
finite, but It appears that they are
progressing ln a friendly and satis-!
factory manner. Many things yet
hav to be fixed up." 11
The colonel .expected, to start tor J
COFEREIIC
Oyster Bay this afternoon.
CITIZENS
EiE
, V." : -
Send Trar;:rts b !eiic:n
Pcrts to Ghe Anicrkrs
Chsce ta Escs Fra
Ccrlry Esf;:e Trcdh
Washington, June 17. Army
transports are being ordered to Tam
plco, Vera Cms and other Mexican
ports to bring borne Americans, It
waa learned at tbe state department
this afternoon. The transport Sum
ner has already left for Tampico,
where there ia s largo Americas col
ony, principally ot oil man and their
employes. v'V-'-k
San Antonio, June 17. General
Parker reported to General Funston
from Brownsville thla afternoon that
Lieutenants Newman and Anderson,
commanding two troops of the Third
cavalry, had crossed tbe Rio Grande
at Jtanc,blta and were engaged In a
battle on Mexican soil.
The message failed to state wheth
er the enemy consisted df bandits or
Carrsnxa SoUUers. -. 'j . t : ;J. . ; ,: .
, , Brownsville, Tex., June ' 17.
Troop H. Third cavalry, Lieatenaat ,
Newman, crossed the Rio Grande at
Rancblta. '12 miles above here thla
morning la pursuit ot Mexican ban
dits who raided San Benito yesterday.
This, information waa received hero
by telephone thla afternoon. The re
port said fighting had been In pro
gress since shortly after Newman .
'crossed. '. . : " -'' V''.'
Four troopa of cavalry, with ma
chine, guns, left Fort Brown to sup
port the expedition. Several com
panies of tbe 28 th Infantry were also
sent to RanchHa from Mission. Tho
infantry at Fort Browa will remain.
to ' guard Brownsville. Geral
Jglcant. Carransa' commandant , at
Matamoras, Issued orders Thursday
to shoot all Americans crossing the-
river. ; '.; . -v;-
Washington, June 17. A war de
partment message this afternoon told
of a skirmish between Colonel Bal
lard's detachment and a group ot
Mexican bandits at a ranch eight
mllea east of San Benito.
The 'bandits scattered with no cas
ualties on either aide.
ROAR AT VERDU.'I
.Paris. June 17. Violent artillery
attacks are continuing on both banks
ot the Meuse, Verdun front, accord
ing to the official statement ot tho
French war office today.
The duel of big guns ln the Avo-
court Bector is particularly heavy.
Dead Man's hill last night was an
inferno of shell tire.
A German hand grenade attack at
Avocourt was easily repulsed.
In the Vosges east of Thann, a de
tachment of French infantry pene
trated two German lines, killing
many ot the defenders and taking
some prisoners. The attackers re
turned without suffering losses.
Denial that the French have teen
driven from their freshly-won
trenches on the southern slope of
Dead Man's hill, as claimed by the
Germans, Is made at the French, war
office. According to tho German of
ficial statement, the French, by count-er-atUcki
were hurled back, leaving
prisoners In the hands of the Ger
mans. , The French Insist that they
are still holding their gains, kilo
meter of trenches, and that ln the
attack more than 200 Germans js-ere
taken. .
