Sit
If you wish Prosperity
Advertise in the News
What is Best for Maui
is Best for the News
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., ERIDAY, MARCH 31. IQlii.
NUMBER 6
y M 111 SkV
Democrats To Fight
For Delegateship
Pinkham and McCandless Factions
Preparing For Fray Republicans
Harmo niousAnd Interest Lacking
A general npathy marks political
affairs in Maui, as far as the republi
cans are concerned. The coming con
vention in Honolulu lias failed to a
rouse more than faint interest, and
while delegates were elected in most
of the precincts, Inst Saturday, there
was no semblance of rivalry for the
positions. Maul will try to have a
representative to the national conven
tion, and will doubtless work to that
end in the convention in Honolulu
next Monday. The idea that Oahu has
already framed the slate for the big
show f not particularly pleasim? here,
and it is more than likely that the
Maui delegates will join forces with
Hawaii and Kauai if necessary to de
feat such a program.
Democrats Split.
Things are not so harmonious in the
ranks of the Maui democrats, and
when the party election is held on
April 13, it is certain that the Mc
Candless and Pinkham factions on
this Island will be sharply divided.
The fight at the party polls for dele
gate and alternate to the democratic
national convention, to be held in St.
Louis, on June 14, will be between
Morris Keohokale for delegate with
Eugene Murphy as alternate, repre
senting the McCandless wing; and Dr.
J. II. Raymond with T. Ii. Lyons, re
presenting the Pinkham faction. At
the present, time the strength on this
island seems to be with the I'inkham
ites, most of the prominen party work
ers seemingly being lined up on that
side.
Delegates Leave Tonight.
Most of the republican delegates to
Monday's convention will leave this
evening by the Mauna Kea. Some of
the Hana members went down on
Wednesday night's Claudine. Those
who go from the Wailuku precinct
are: Senator H. B. Penhallow, Charles
Wilcox, P. J. Goodness, and Moses
Kauhimahu.
Maui Scouts Are For
Real Preparedness
Wailuku Troops Doing Good Work-
Address By George Wilbur Com
petition Planned Soon
Thursday night which has become
known as "Scout Night" at the Alex
ander House GyMinsiuni, is a time
for great activity since the reorganiza
tion of Scouting in Wailuku. A feature
of the meeting last night was a talk
by George Wilbur, head luna of the
Wailuku Sugar Co., entitled "Cane
Fires." Mr Wilbur gave the boys
some interesting facts on cane fires
lind their origin and the best methods
of stopping them. This is one of a
series of talks to be given the boys to
prepare them to be more useful in this
community and to better follow the
Scout motto: "Be Prepared."
A part of the Scout Program all
over the world is the "Daily Good
Turn." Each boy promises to do a
good turn each day for which he re
ceives no money and often no thanks
A report was made of the good turns
for the past week and they ranged
all the way from helping Mother wash
the dishes to picking up nails and
horseshoes on the road and helping
older people carry bundles.
A new troop, which is known as
Troop 2, Herbert Young, Scout
master, and which is composed en
tirely of Chinese boys, is making a
particularly fine showing. At the last
meeting every hoy was present with
some kind and helpful act to report
The average attendance of this troop
for the month has been 98 per cent
On the next Scout Night in the
Gymnasium will begin a series of
inter-troop competitions in volley ball
doge ball, and indoor baseball. The
boys are looking forward to this with
keen interest. The work of the re
organized Maui Scout Council, in pro
moting these activities, is a real "pre
paredness" program; preparedness in
better citizenship and more respon.sibi
lity in the community on the pait of
the boys who are growing up.
MYO
ELECTRIC COMPANY GETS
NEW ENGINE
The Island Electric Company has
been engaged this week in installin
a new Diesel type engine in its plant
to supplement Its present power
equipment. The installation is in
charge of J. C. Iilair, who came here
from St. Louis for the purpose. It is
hoped to have the engine running
within another week, after which the
company will lie in position to furnish
a much more dependable service.
National Guard May
Enter Ball League
Matter Being Considered Athletic
Association Elects Officers Meet
ing Called For April 11
What the coming season holds for
tmschull on Maui, is the fiuestion that
is agitating the local tans at pnseiit.
There Is a strong move on foot to
make the coming series a military on".
In other words, that the three or four
tennis to form the lcaiMi" shall repre
sent the different militia divisions of
the local national guard. II is pro
posed that the 1st Batialion (Wailu
ku) enter on" team, the 2nd Battalion
(Lalu.itia), another, and the "id Bat
talion, (1'uunene and l'aia) still an
other. It is urges, thai inarmueh as
all of the best ball material is in the
guard, and as the athletic officers of
the regiment propose having baseball
as a part of the military program din
ing the summer, that the usual leautte
teams will find dilfieuliy in getting
players unless some kind of combina
tion can lie effected.
The annual meet inn of the Maui
Athletic Association was held last
Tuesday evening, and the old officers
all reelected as follows: B. A. Wads-
worth, president; E. B. t'arley, vice
president; J. Garcia, treasurer; W. V.
Coeltett, secretary; L. M. Baldwin,
auditor.
It was decided to hold a meeting on
Tuesday, April 11, for receiving and
passing upon applications of tenuis for
the 191( series. Iits understood that
Capt. dimming?:, of Company 11,
national guard, will enter a team from
his company, whether the guard is
otherwise represented or not.
Waikapus Win Again.
The Waikapus won for a second
time from the Saints in the champion
ship series of the Winter League, last
Sunday, by a score of 10 to 7. The
slimmest crowd on record witnessed
the game. If the Waikapus ran take
next Sunday's game it will finish the
series, but the Saints still have a
chance to tie the score.
-
Nothing Definite On
Makawao Homesteads
A request to the territorial land de
partment for information as to when
the Makawao homestead lots are to be
opened for settlement, has brought the
information from Land Commissioner
Rivenburgh that nothing definite can
bo said on the matter at the present
time, but that it is hoped to take the
matter up as soon as other pressing
matters are satisfied, at least tempor
arily. There has been much interest on
Maui concerning these lands, which
were subdivided six or eight, months
ago, and of which it is understood
maps have been prepared. A road
system was also laid out through the
tract by the department of public
about a year ago. H
Edings Holds McKay
May Demand Receipt
Judge Edings for the first time.
this morning, passed upon the merits
of the receipt controversy of Attorney
Eugene Murphy in his various suits
for small amounts of costs, against
Judge McKay, district magistrate. In
giving his decision, which was in a
suit for the recovery of 90 cents. Judge
Edings held that it is proper for the
district magistrate to require a receipt
for monies paid out. even though, as
Murphy contends, the territorial laws
do not mention the matter. The facts
in the case were not contradicted.
The money in question was tendered
to Murphy and a receipt demanded,
and when Murphy declined to give
such receipt, the payment was with
held. The case will bo carried to the
supreme court. Previous cases taken
to the higher tribunal were thrown
out on Irregularities, without the real
question at issue being settled. Case
and Vincent are representing Judge
im in i rie maner, .Murphy person
.. . -i . .
ally handling his side of the case.
O
MAUI BOY SCOUT COUNCIL.
mere win ne an important meeting
of the Maul Scout Council at Alexan
der House Gymnasium, Saturday af
ternoon at 5 o'clock.
Mr. James A. Wilder, Field Scout
Commissioner for Hawaii wil be
present.
L. R. Mathews. .
President.
HAWAIIAN COMMERCIAL
TO PAY SPECIAL DIVIDEND
Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar Co.
directors have announced a special
dividend of fifty cents a share, pav.i
ble April !. Willi the regular month
ly dividend of twenty-live cents a
share it will make a payment to the
stockholders of $300,000.
First Polo Match
To Be Held In May
Big Racing Association Dance Will Be
Held On Night Of Game A Big
Social Event
Plans are now on foot for the
annual fancy dress ball of the M:"tl
Racing Association, which will be
given probably early In May. T''e
affair is to be made coincident wi ii
the first, polo contest of the season,
which is to be played on the iv w
Keahua field, and will be one of the
most important society events of
the year.
The polo game will be between the
Oahu and Maui teams. The local
team is already practising bard, and
lias full confidence of being able to
carry off the honors, particularly with
the splendid new grounds to practice
upon. Experts who have seen th"
field claim that there Is nothing equal
to it in the way of polo field, east of
New York. The stables, which will ,.c
commodate -10 horses in 11x1!) foot box
stalls, are something like Uliese of Lie
Coronado Club.
Governor Pinkham Is
Coming to Maui Soon
According to a wireless received to-
dav from the Governor's office, by the
county clerk, Governor Pinkham will
be a visitor to Maui as soon as he
returns from a trip which he is to
make to Kauai next week. Although
the message did not so state, it is
believed that the chief executive's vi
sit has to do with the filling of the
vacancy in the board of supervisors;
ilthough national guard matters, loan
fund work, or another of other things
might be the occasion of his coming.
Haiku Farmers To
Hold Important Meeting
An important meeting of the Haiku
Farmers' Association has been called
for tomorrow evening at the Kuiaha
schoolhouse, for the purpose of hear
ing a report fro ma committee appoint
ed to investigate the outlook for the
pineapple market for th" future, and
thepossibility of making advantageous
contracts with the canning companies
for handling the fruit. E. O. Moore, of
the committee, returned on Wednes
day night from Honolulu where he
went to take the matter up with Pre
sident Dole, of the Haiku Fruit and
Packing Company. It is understood
that no agreement was arrived at, but
Unit there is a possibility that an ac
ceptable proposition may come from
the Maui Pineapple Company.
Vegetables Wonted.
It is probable also that the matter
of growing vegetables for the local
market will also receive attention.
Frank Stevens, manager of the l'aia
-Meat Market is expected to address
the meeting on this matter. The dif
ficulty of supplying, even in part, the
demand for fresh vegetables, insures,
Mr. Stevens believes, the best of in
ducement to the honiesteadrs to take"
up this class of farming.
It is expected also that a represent
ative of the association on the execu
tive commute of the Maui County
Fair, will also be named.
Believe Missing Man
Was Murdered
Mystery of Molokai Chinese Not Clear
ed Up Body Can Not Be Found
Death Seems Certain
Sheriff Crowell and several deputies,
who have been on Molokai for over
a week, searching for some trace of
the missing Chinaman, Wong Wai
Bound, returned home last niglu after
fruitless work. It is now believed
that the missing man is not only ! ad.
but that his death was due to foul
play. Otherwise there seems to be no
explanation for the disappearance of
his body.
Tim theory of the ollicer is that
when the missing man left his home
about 'J o'clock in the morning of the
lath inst. for the purpose of pat tilling
his fish pond, which he believed was
being plundered, that he was set upon
by the fish thieves, murdered, and his
hotly taken to sea in a boat and thrown
overboard. If the man had comiuii'ed
suic ide, it seems impossible that, the
body should not be found, inasmuch
as the water about the pond is shal
low. Sheriff Crowell will probably re
turn to Molokai to further investigate
the matter.
Much Court Work
Soon Disposed Of
(he Fa Cases Dismissed For Lack of
Evidence Saloon Man's Assail
ants Go To Jail
The trial jury of the March term
of circuii court was dismissed for the
term on Monday, by Judge Edings,
and by yesterday morning the calendar
had been about cleared of the term
wink. A large amount of business
has been put. through In I lie 10 days
the ourt was In session. A number
of cases has been set for hearing by
Judge ladings in vacation, and a few
have gone over till the next term.
Following are the cases disposed
of since last Friday:
('.. I'chida and E. Tagawa, assault
and battery, appeal from Wailuku
district court. Appeal dismissed and
defendants discharged.
Y. Takeuehi, selling liquor without
license, found guilty by Judge Edings
and fined $100 and costs.
Seno Imaiuura, selling lieucr with
out license, found guilty and sentenc
ed to pay a fine of Jlou and costs.
The case of Francisco Okilio and
Mrs. Mary Oh Fg Ha, on charge of
adultery, was nolle prosequed.
Manuel M. Calase, larseny 2nd de
gree. Case continued for term.
Mafsumoto, maintaining and assist
ing Che la game. Case tried before
Judge Edings and dismissed for lack
of evidence.
Miyano, same charge and same dis
posit ion.
Ah Clutch, opium in possession, on
appeal from Wailuku district court
for mitigation of sentence. Appeal
dismissed.
Shavial Peslana, non-support, appeal
from Wailuku district court. Case
dismissed.
Charles Delgado, having sexual in
tercourse with female under 15. con
victed by a jury last week, sentenc
ed by Judge Edings on Wednesday to
not. less than 3 years nor more than 10
years at hard labor.
Sakai Takayama, convicted of forge
ry by a jury, was sentencedcM mm
ry by a jury, was last Saturday sen
tenced to servo not less than 8
months nor more than 5 years, and to
pay a fine of $10 and costs.
Sam Likana and William Kaaimoku
were sentenced to C months Imprison
ment, John Lincoln to 3 months, and
William Ioana to 4 months, by Judge
Edings, last Saturday, for their re
spective parts in the assault committ
ed two weeks ago on W. G. Scott,
proprietor of the Kahului Saloon.
Nagahara, assisting and maintain
ing che fa. case nolle pros.
Ah Chuck, opium in possession,
pleaded guilty and fined $10 and costs.
Civil Calendar
Philip Pol in vs Antone S. Madeira,
damages; verdict by jury for defend
ant, Eugene Murphv attorney for
plaintiff, Doutlutt & Coke, for defend
ant. Mary Santos vs. Augusta F. Texeira.
assumpsit : verdict by jury for defend
ant. Eugene Murphy for plaintiff; E.
11. Bcvins, for defendant.
Eugene Murphy vs. Enos Vincent;
assumpsit; motion to dismiss appeal
overruled. Continued for term.
W. A. Clark vs. Joe Sylva, action
to quiet title; continued till April 1.
Most of the other cases on the ca
lendar have been passed for the term
or to be tried in vacation.
Think Raymond Will
Soon Be Appointed
Following Pr. Raymond's statement
to the Maui News, last Friday that he
would accept the appointment to the
place out hi' board of supervisors made
vacant by Philip Pali's resignation,
opinion on Maui is strong that the ap
pointment will soon be forthcoming
from the Governor's office. Senator
James L. Coke, who has been on
Maui on court business, and who is
wise in democratic councils is report
ed to have pr dieted this as a prarti
cal certainty. The fact that Pr. Ray
mond has not asked the governor for
the place, it is not believed will have
anv lienrinrr mi tlit neitter It is slut
ed that Senator Coke, who returned to
Honolulu on Wednesday night, will
probably make strong recommenda
tion to Governor Pinkham in the mat
ter. while the democratic country com
mite" has already sent in a resolution
urging the appointment.
MAY
PERSONALLY CONDUCT"
THE TOURIST
Hollis Hardy, of Makawao, who re
cently became a member of the pro
motion committee staff, returned to
Honolulu last Saturday after spendin
several days looking into the matter
of entertaining a personally conducted
parly of tourists, which the tourist or
ganization is planning to send to
Maui. If these plans work out, Mr
Hardy will probably be a trequent vis
itor lo his home island, in the capac ity
of conductor for theso tours.
FUNSTON SAYS VILLA
IS NOWJURROUNDED
Washington Informed Outlaw Must Soon Fight -German
Submarines Sinking Many Ships
Situation Again Serious
WASHINGTON, March 31 Villa caught hy cordon of soldiers
and faces battle, Eunston advises that h.v I t 1 adcr is surrounded in
vicinity of hcadwartcrs of the Santa i river. The Carranza
garrison was wantonly butchered. Gen. ' dalles is now .r.ict icrall y
dictator of Chihuahua. Provisional president has given authority lo
northern commander.
HONOLULU, March 31 P.aron Vatuchi. of the P.uddhist mis
sion in Japan, says Japanese should not surrender good national traits
when Americanized. Thinks his countrymen are bound to give best
to new nationality.
Republicans have rilit lo exclude votes from Hawaii. Lorrin
Andrews received call for delegates to national convention. Call says
territorial delegation has no ot'lieial status. Is entitled to 2 seats and
there rights cease. Organization, however, may give islanders privilege
to ballot if it elects.
Lorin Andrews made guardian
.Stuart. Piles cross bill and answers claiming his ward is not mentally
competent. Charges she was under influence in making trust deed.
Asks that Iaukea and Dominis,
Oueen alone.
Nobles of Aloha Temple plan
Stevens's party.
FT ELD HEADQUARTERS
MEXICO, March 31 Villa nearly
by victim while murdering a family,
lnlonnation from the family, and
Villa riddled bodies with bullets.
LEWIS, Delaware, March 31
away, who secreted himself on steamer Maloppo. when vessel left New
York for Vladivostok with munitions, came out ol hiding on Wednes
day night and locked up skipper.
ing destructiomst to other coast steamer, and the Alatoppo was brought
icre.
NEW YORK, March 31 Husband of Gadski arrested as plotter.
Said to be implicated in the Welland
WASHINGTON, March 31
tions lactory. Also urges upon congress armor plate plant.
CLEVELAND, O., March 31
lity for wrecking of three New
disaster not yet placed.
PARIS, March 31 Teutons
dun. Herald abortive attack at
Eretich trenches, but are driven back with loss.
Aviators of both sides growing
report that their airmen brought
force.
LOXDOX, March 31 Committee of Reichstag endorse German
submarine policy. Admiralty will
in success.
PEKING, March 31 Russia has secured control of northern
Manchuria. Will build railroad with sanction of Japanese govern
ment.
PERNE, Switzerland, March
and starvation. Reports are that
'.ere driven from their homes and
armies, and the laying waste of lands,
Greek border, but 8000 reached Salonikt and vicinity. All the rest
perished of hunger and cold by the way. Survivors were in pitiable
condition.
PARIS, March 30 Another raid attempted by German air fleet
upon Saloniki early today, according to reports reaching here, l'rench
airmen were able to disperse raiders.
ATHENS, March 30 High official of Greek court thinks Ger
many has a deep purpose in her repeated attacks on Saloniki.
LONDON, March 30 New phase in Sussex explosion appears to
be developing. Ambassador Page forwarded from London an un
official report that a liritish destroyer, when aiding in rescuing survivors
of crippled vessel, fired twice upon submarine believed to have launch
ed torpedo that struck steamer amidships.
PARIS, March 30 Very few developments today on west front.
Germans sent infantry against French in Avocourt wood, in endeavor
to retake their lost positions, but failed. East of Meuse there is heavy
artillery duelling.
HONOLULU, Marchr 30 Claim they paid Officer Gray to give
protection for che fa gamblers from Cashier and Waialua sign
affidavits. City attorney makes formal charge of misconduct. Says
policemen give warning about raids. Civil service commission will
conduct probe April 8. Mayor will try to aid prosecution if he thinks
men guilty.
To fan Japanese enthusiasm for American citizenship, a series of
meetings is planned for each class. First to be held tomorrow night.
Plan a united light to become naturalized. u
W. W. Thayer, Judge Dole, F'. C. Atherlon, and Dr. I. Mori, to
be Friday speakers.
NEW YORK, March 30 Demand from nearly -UX).000 locomotive
engineers, firemen, and other trainmen were formally presented today
to the general managers of 180 railroad systems, covering ilie whole
United Slates.
Members of the so-called "Pig 4 Union" ask for a 8 hour day
without reduction in pay. Roads are given one month in which to
answer.
HONOLULU, March 30 Whitehuuse not down all week, but has
drawn S(.50.
HONOLULU, March 30 Oueen is made respondent in test case
by Judge Stuart. Liliuokalani dropped as petitioner in suit to break
her trust deed. Cupid is allowed to amend his complaint. Says kins
woman is of unsound mind and unable to manage her affairs.
J'.mincnt buddhist assails nialigner of picture-bride practice. High
priest of the Ilongwanji mission of Japan bitterly scores Representative
(Continued on Page Five.)
of Oueen Liliuokalani by Judge
among others, be required to leave
huge welcome for Imperial Potentate
OE AMERICAN ARMY IN-
strangled to death. Was attacked
is report. P.andit tried to secure
when members relused to comply,
Ernest Schiller, German stow
Members of crew succeeded m gett
canal conspiracy.
Secretary of Navy asks for muni
Opinion divided as to responsibi
York trains yesterday. Liame for
use liquid fire in fighting near Ver
Douamount by flame sprayed against
active once more. French officially
no less than 8 machines of German
employ all means at its disjKisal to
30 Serbian refugees die of cold
of 30,000 refugees from Serbia who
country by the invasion of Teutonic
and who headed southward across
