9
HOLDS FIRST PRIZE OF KENTUCKY PRE88 A88QCIATION AS BEST EIOHT-PAGE WEEKLY IN KENTUCKY
After Sickness
or Operation
physician
usually praacriba
Scott's
Emulsion
lha blood-making,
strength-building
food-tonic
DON'T
, tukfora
Scott' Erauliion
the Origins.!
and tH 0nuin
without alcoboL
, Aut inveniam viam, aut faeiam.
L0UI8A," LAWRENCE COUNTY, KENTUCKY, MARCH 31, 1916.
M. F. CON LEY, Publisher.
Volume XXXI. Number 81.
SANDY
NEWS.
BIG
HRS. . F. FRIEL
DIES IN
WIFE OF FORMER ASHLAND
NEWSPAPER MAN PA88E8
!". .'.. ' AWAY.,
The many friend of Mm, 0. F. Frlel
were pained to learn of her death whlrh
' occurred Saturday nlKht at nine o'clock
at the Good Samaritan hospital, at Cln-
clnnafl, O, where she had liwn taken
several weeks ago and where she un
derwent a eerlnua operation.
Her critical illneu has extended over
a period of seventeen weeks and the
beet skilled physicians and the best
trained nurses, in fact, all that human
bands could do, was done, but the In
evitable must come and nothing could
star the hand of death.
(Several months a ten Mrs. Frlel
taken to the Mayo Brother at Roches
ter, Minn- and then her condition was
not counted serious. Though she hud
been frull for some time there arose
complications about two months ago
that baffled even the most learned phy-
. ale-Mum.
Mrs. Frlel, whose maiden name was
Ida Florence Whether, was the duugh
ter of William Henry Harrison and
Khoda Anne Taylor Wheeler, of Wheel
rsbunr, O. This town hnvliig been
named for her ancestors who settled In
and about there and have resided there
for nearly a century. She ' furty
aeven year of age the 20th of this
month, and was married twenty-seven
year ago to G. K. Frlel and since their
marriage have resided fW -most of the
time In Ashland and Catlntwburg ex
ceptlng two year they were In Ports
mouth. O.
Iter family came near being. -eligible
for about all patriotic societies. Mrs.
Frlel trace her 'ancestry to .Natnan
Wheeler, who baa her grwt-srest grand
father and who served In the Revolu
tionary waft' Her father was In the
Civil war and like the noted Nathaniel
Wheeler, waa a true a patriot a ever
lived.
Mrs. Frlel waa truly a home woman,
devoted to her husband and children,
; tnd she haa seen thee children grow
to manhood and womanhood respected
and honored by all who knew them.
Gaylord. the eldeat son. I employed at
Wheelershurg In the Wheelersburg
Mills a bookkeeper while "Wily" Kr.eJ
I now a student at Vanderhllt College.
The only daughter Mis Frances Frlel,
recenliy graduated from the Curry
School of Kxpreeslon at Boston. She
baa been with th mother at the home
at Chaffee Place since she finished
achool and haa been a great comfort to
ber. All during her Illness she has been
Constantly at her bedside, day and
night. She la truly a beautiful char
acter and no parent could have a more
' dutiful and loving daughter.
Th husband and Bona, too, were con
atantly with her and when her condi
tion rraw critical both boys were call
ed home and were constantly near her.
In fact the entire family stayed in Cin
cinnati o they could be near her and
watch any turn or change that might
e,m over her.
In Mr. Frlel's death, this family loses
It stay and comfort for they have
looked to her, counselled with her and
trusted her opinion In every thing,
Mrs. Frlel waa a member of the
Methodist Episcopal Churc h, South and
waa a heautlful christian character.
She respected all things aacred, and her
entire family followed In ber lontsieps
She will be missed and mourned, for It
l. aelrlom one finds a noble character.
Mr. Frlel and family arrived here
from Cincinnati at four o'clock this af
ternoon and the remains were taken to
her beautiful home at Chaffee l'lace
Whlrh haa Just been remodeled and
made one of the most attractive resi
dences on the Catlettsburg and Ash
land Tike. This home today Is a model
of neatness a she was one of the most
beautiful and pulnstaklng housekeeper
we have ever known.
Th funeral service will be held from
the late home Wednesday morning at
ten a. m, and will be In charge of He v.
w M. (liven, pastor of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, South of whlrh she
waa a member. He will be assisted by
Rev. W. M. Wakefield, who has been a
true friend of this family during their
venra of residence In Ashland. With
the bereaved husbrtnd. the devoted sons
and the loving daughter, and her two
latere and brother, the greatest sym
pathy la felt for truly she ho gone out
of the long Journey across the Silver
whose placid wave' never yet
"have borne the Image of a returning
souL" Ashland Independent.
STATE TAKES ACTION
IN CASE OF WINFREY
irrnnUfnrt. Kv.. March 23. First As
.iMiont Attorney General Charles H
Morris to-dav filed a writ of prohibition
'in the Court of Appeals asking that
Judge Davtv of Mlddlesboro. be pro
hibited from trying; the case of the
Commonwealth against M. O. Winfrey.
Winfrey married tho chief witness for
the commonwealth and the question to
be determined by the court la whether
the wife can testify for the common
wealth against her husband under such
oil ju instances.
WILL GO TO PIKEVILLE
FOR KESIDENCE.
Bv order of Commissioner Terrell, of
the State nonos iei.i. ........ ""
Warn McDyer will have charge of the
Ai.trM of the upper Rllt Sandy, This
will necessitate a residence somewhere
In the district, and Mr. ami mrs. c
tw.. win live in Pikevllle, at least un
til June 1st They will loave Louisa
A GOOD MAN GONE. ,
F. M. Moles peacefully passed nway
March 18, 11, ; after battling with
pneumonia for nearly one week. The
physicians made the moat skillful and I
heroic efforts ever made In this neigh- j
horhood to save their patient, but the'
disease waa too powerful and their pa
tient had to succumb to the ravage or
the dreadful malady. - Mr. Moles' : wife
died only one week previous to his
death. She was 71 years old arid had
been In very poor health for some
years. - Mr. Mole was 75 year old,
wa a member of the CI. A. It. He was
also a member of East Point Lodge No.
67, F. ft A. M. He waa postmaster at
this place for IS years. He received
Buch education as the schools of his
youth afforded, as he grew up he Im
proved every opportunity to extend his
education that he might fill his place
In life more perfectly. He was a mem
ber of the Methodist church and was
ever ready to respond to the call of
those who were in need. Mr. Moles
leave five children to mourn their loss,
three boys and two girls; Frank Mole,
of Kat Point, Jeff Moles, telegraph op
erator at Auxler and Ion Molea, tele
graph operator at ITestonsburg, Mrs.
Laura Music, of Lookout. Ky., and Mr.
Martha Johnson, of Huger Hill. The
aged couple will be greatly missed by
the entire community aa they were ever
ready to extend to all a helping hand.
The dear home once so happy and
where the children loved so to come la
now silent and lone, but we know the
dear ones are In glory and we can only
look to the dear Lord who doea all
things well.
Farewell, loved ones, for a season
tin earth we'll meet no more.
Hut In that celestial city
We'll meet on the other shore.
Bast Point, Ky. A FRIEND.
MRS. OTHA ROBERTS DIES
AT AGE OF 80 YEARS,
Mrs. Otha Roberts died Tuesday of
this week at the home of her daugh
ter-in-law. Mrs. Martha Holerts. nne
was about 0 years of ue and had en-
oyed excellent health until about three
months ago. Since that time ner
health ha been poor, but her condition
did not become alarming until a few
day previous to her death.
Deceased was a native oi i ise-oi.
tier maiden name wa Adklns. She was
the widow of Sinclair RoImmIs, one of
the best known citizens of our county
10 to 40 year ago. Hhe had Uvea ror
many year with her eon Willi V,
Roberts, who died two year ago.
The burial took place Thursday in
the graveyard where v tin i ouncu.
WIND AND HAIL.
A big torm of wind and hall swept
over (ilenhayea and vicinity last Mon
day. The tor building of W. D. Flta-
patrlck ft Co, wa damaged to me ex
tent of probably one thousand dollars,
and other property waa Injured.
In place the hall drifted to a deptn
of four Inches. A team belonging to
Ijifavetta Vinson became frightened by
the storm and ran away, tearing me
wagon to pieces.
HUSBAND AND WIFE
DIE AT SAME TIME
icrn COUPLE GRANTED WISH
THAT DEATH COME TO
BOTH AT ONCE.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Parker, each
aged about 75 year, died within two
hours of each other at their home on
Cherokee, thla county, last Saturday
A short time ago Mr. I-orker sustain
ed a fall and it Is supposed that was
the cause of her death. They had been
married a long time and it is thought
that her aged huslwuid died from grief
over the death of hla companion, tacn
had frequently been heard to express
wish that they would die together or
at the same time. It would seem, there
fore seem that lYovldence had granted
their des.re. '
Mrs. Parker was a alster of the late
Dr. Sparks, who for many years lived
at the mouth of Hood. All these par
ties were well known resident of the
Illalne country. , -
SEVEN CHILDREN DEAD
IN ONE FAMILY.
Cleyer Couch, the seventeen months
old child of Mr. and Mr. Geo. Couch,
of K. Front-st, died this morning, and
If the father can make the necessary
arrangement. Its little body will be
taken back to Lee-co. for Interment ie-
nl.lo the remains of her little brother,
Samuel Couch, who waa struck and
killed by a motorcycle on East urean
un-av. last Sunday a week ago.
The baby, the last surviving child of
the family, was a victim of paralysis
and was nractlcully helpless.
The Couch family moved to Ashland
a month ago. tne iainer nnvios '-
cented a position at the coke ovens.
The dire allllctlona which have be
fallen the family have deprived the pa
rent of their seven children, their
earnings, and practically all their house
hold goods and clothing. Ashland In
dependent.
FRAZIER ADMITTED TO BAIL.
In County Judge'Clayton'B court on
Monday last Sum Krnxler, charged with
shooting and wounding James Dob
bins with Intent to kill, was held to
the April grand Jury In the um of
$;00. Fraxler gave the ball and wa
released from custody.
The shooting grew out of a family
'quarrel near Uulltip March, 19th.
JAfVIES GUILDERS HAS
CLOSE MILL FOR LIFE
SKULL FRACTURED BY PIECE OF
GA8 PIPE IN HANDS OF
ANDY SEE. -
During a difficulty which occurred at
the chemical plunt at Torchlight, this
county, last Saturday morning about
nine o'clock, Jaa, Childer wa struck
on the head with a piece of gaa pipe In
the hands of Andy See thereby u
taining a fractured skull. The Injured
man wo rendered all possible aid im
mediately after the occurrence, and
seeing his condition and realizing the
extent of his Injuries he was as soon
aa possible placed upon a boat and
brought to the hospital In this city. Mr.
See assisted In the removal, coming to
the hospital with him and helping him
In every way in his power. The man
was placed on the operating table where
Dr. L. H. York, assisted by Dr. F. D.
Marcum, who had attended him before
his removal, removed a large piece of
bone from the skull. The man remain
ed unconscious for two or three days,
but at thla time has regained con
sciousness and according to the at-'
tending physician is doing a well a
could be expected.
A short time previous to the difficulty
Chllders, who Is an employe at the
chemical plant, came Into one of the
rooms of the plant where Fred See, a
brother of Andy See and likewise an
employe of the plant, was In company
with his brother Andy. It seem that
Fred See haa the custody of a quantity
of ulcohol which is used In the business
of the plant. Chllders, who all unite In
saying, was drinking at the time, asked
Fred See to let him have some alcohol
Buying that he had been sick and need
ed It. See told htm that he couio not
let him have It. that he was drinking
and that he had better go home and
ime back after he had become sober.
Chllders. so It is alleged, then began to
curse Fred See. calling him all manner
of vile name and threatening him. It
wa then that Andy See Interfered and
told him to let Fred alone. This seem
ed to enrage Chllders, who began to
curse Andy and to advance upon him.
callin him names and striking at mm.
Desiring to avoid any trouble Andy
tried to get out of hi way and went
the length of the room Childer follow
ing and striking at him. but not hitting
him. Andy retreated as far as he could
and got between two large tank In the
far Dart of the room, where mere wa
a niece of gaa pipe about four ieet long.
Thinking that Childer would oo mm
violence and all retreat being cut on
he seized the gaa pipe and struck Cbll
ilers as above stated. Before the al
tereatlon occurred between t hllders
and Fred See, Chllders had gone into
the room of which Fred had charge tag
ing with him another man, who, it is
said, was under the influence of liquor.
This was against the rule of the com
pany and Fred told the manager oi
what Childer had done. The manager
nf into th room and put the intruo
er out. Thla also. It is saio. cunirniui
to Chllders" auger, it la said thai -wr.
8. McConnell. one of the company,
hn.i nt-ired Childer to go home.
on Saiurdnv morning, a soon as ne
hnt seen f hi ders taken to tne nospn.
7 .
Andy See surrendered himself Into the
custody of Judge Clayton, t-oumy
Judge, lie held him in bond for his
anoearance on the following Tuesday.
He furnished the bond ar.o waa
i m Tneadnv morning tne case wa
culled and owing to the condition of
the wounded mnn.an examination was
waived and the defendant neld in a
bond of $2,000 to answer at the next
term of the Lawrence circuit ouri
He furnished ball.
Coiintv attorney. C. F. See. Jr., oe
ing a relative of the defendant, dld not
prosecute the case and attorney v. i--Mln
anoeared for the commonwealth.
Jas. Chllders, the injured man, is noi
.kin an far as is known, to any unc ...
this county, excepting to the relatives
of his wife who Is a daughter of wayne
f,.irn He came to this country about
eleven year ago and wa employed at
ih. Wk and dam at Chapman. He Is
" . . .
Innre muscular man and is saia to oe
quarrelsome when under the influence
of liquor. He ia an excellent mechanic
and when sober is a useful citizen.
n son of helix cee, ui
t.iek rreek. is a well known young man
f vnod habit and was never before, so
far as this paper knows, in any miuun
He Is a son-in-law of Miny "". "
this place.
GOLD IN ESTILL.
winrheater. Kv March 28. Simp
son Cox of EatlU-co, Just over the
Clark-co. line, discovered an old book
in his home last week wnicn nau um,
lost for many year. In It ia given the
location of a "gold mine" on Happy
Top. a ridge of that county. With a
number of men Cox ha been busy for
several days sinking a shaft. Mth
the oil boom now on in Estill and the
prosects for gold In her mountain re
gions, land has tnken another Jump In
to the little county to each train. Cox
claims that th book was handed down
through his family, pioneers in that
section, and they secured In from an
Indian chief whose tribe mined gold
In the early days of that section.
LICENSED TO WED.
Harry O'Bryan. 19, to Bessie Short,
is .f Wilbur. Ky. i
Willie Vinson. 40, to Anna Williams.
19 of West Vs. Married In office by
Grant Dooby, ZZ. to ena
Isaac Deboard. 19. to Laura Hays, 17,
of Georges creek. Ky..
William Thompson. 19, to Lucy Fer
guson, 19, of Cherokee.
HON. 8. 8. WILLI 3.-
Th announcement of Judge S. S.
Willis, of Boyd -co., . appears In the
NEWS this week. He wants the Re
publican nomination for Judge of the
Court of Appeals In this district, which
is equivalent to election. Mr. Willis is
a fine gentleman and an excellent law
yer. v
The following la a resolution adopt
ed by the lawyers of Boyd-co.:
Resolved by the members of the
Boyd County Bar Association assemb
led at the court house at Catlettsburg,
Ky., on January 11, 1816, that we here
with endorse, regardless of politics, Mr.
Willis as a candidate for Judge of the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky and com
mend him to the voters of the Seventh
Appellate District as a man of splen
did character, of scholarly attainments
and profound ability as a lawyer and
In whom the citizenship of the district
can repose the fullest confidence with
a firm conviction that no voter who
casta hi vote for Mr. Willis will eve.'
have cause for regret.
REV. CHRIS. THOMPSON
DIES IN CALIFORNIA.
Mrs. W. H. Sellbee, of this city, ha
received information of the death of
her brother. Rev. Chris. Thompson,
which occurred in San Diego, Cal., on
the eleventh of this month. His fu
neral wa held In the Methodist church
of that city, where he had been pastor
for many year. Burial wa made In
Los Angeles, -where his widow expects
to make her home. Mr. Thompson is
survived by one son, who woe born of
the union with his first wife who waa
daughter of Alley Artrlp, deceased, a
well known citizen of Wayne-co, West
Va. Mr. Thompson was a eon of the
late Greenville Thompson and waa born
near Fort Gay about fifty-five years
ago. He wa an able and well known
minister of the Methodist Church South
and has been heard in that church in
thla city. 1 He wa an uncle of Mrs. R.
U Vinson and leaves numerous rela
tive in this vicinity to mourn theueatn
of a good man and faithful minister of
the gospel. Mr. Thompson hod been
In poor health fr several years. Short
ly before he died he underwent an op
eration in the hope ofpernfiiiient re
lief. This would probably have been the
result but' the physician said that the
anesthetic caused inflamation of the
lungs which resulted In pneumonia and
death. Mr. and Mrs. Thompson had ex
pected to celebrate the 23rd anniver
sary of their wedding soon.
(OPERATION FOR HERNIA.
On Monday last David C. May. of
Whltehouse, waa brought to the Lou-
. hospital, suffering from strangu
lated lngriunal hernia. He waa operat
ed on by Dr. L. H. York and la doing
welL
DEATH NEAR FT. gXy.
Sam Bortram died near Fort Gay
last Saturday. He waa about 65 years
of age. and wa a brother of Capt. W .
C. Bartram, of Ft. Gay. Several chil
dren, all grown, aurvive him.
REV.OLUS HAMILTON
RESIGNS HIS PASTORATE
LEAVES LOUISA BAPTIST CHURCH
TO ACCEPT A CALL TO
WALTON, KY.
At the regular morning service held
in the Baptist church on Sunday last.
the pastor the Rev. Olus Mammon
tendered his resignation of his charge
and united that it be accepted at once.
He gave as his reason for offering his
resignation the fact that he had re
eelved and accepted a call from the
H.-intiKt church at Walton, Ky. Mr.
Hamilton's request waa reluctantly
granted. His resignation came as a
mutt surmise to the most of his con
gregation as before Saturday lost only
a few of them were aware of any In
tention on. his part to go to another
field of labor, Mr. Hamilton came to
this pastorate nearly three years and
a half ago. During his residence here
he haa been very successful In his work
In the ministry. The membership ho
largely Increased and he has built up
a Sunday school which is equal in Its
formation and conduct to almost any
other of this denomination In the state.
It Is a graded Sunday school, conform-
jtng in every particular to the require
ment for such a sunouy bciubji.
As a minister Mr. Hamilton is aDove
renroach in character, a good speaker.
earnest and sincere in manner and Is
a good pastor. It Is only trutn to say
that In this community he is regarded
as a christian gentleman and that our
people generally will part with mm
with regret He and his amiable and
helpful wife will take with them the
best wishes of those wno Know mem
for their success and happiness
their new fleld of labor. Walton, their
new home, is a thriving town in hen
ton -co- not far from Covington. Mr.
Hamilton becomes pastor of a 120.000
church and will have a comfortable
parsonage aa his residence. Mr. and
Mrs. Hamilton left Thursday for their
new home.
WEATHER PLAY8 TRICKS.
Pnlntsville. Ky., March 27. A heavy
rainstorm swept over l'alntsvtlle lust
night and was followed to-day by sun
hlne. rain, hall and snow In nearby
sections, accomiwinied by thunder and
lightning. Tho tide In all creek Is
high and thousands of logs are pasa
Ing by. The Big Sandy river Is rais
ing fast. The storm meant disaster to
farmers, plowed ground being most all
washed from the hillside. .
CLINTON FORMATION FOUND
IN KENTUCKY OIL FIELD
NEW POSSIBILITIES OF DEEP
-SAND DEVELOPMENT ARE ;
' OPENED.
Barbourville, Ky, March 26. The
discovery of the Clinton sand in East
ern Kentucky's petroleum Held opens
up possibilities of deep sand develop
ment on a larger scale. A teat well
in Boyd-co., drilled to a depth of 1,200
feet, showed twenty feet of the Clin
ton formation, with a showing of pe
troleum. This, the deepest test ever
drilled In Kentucky to show a petro
leum producing formation at that
depth, may be the forerunner of devel
opments which will open a productive
sand far below any now producing oil.
The search for production in the Be
rea grit, the deepest sand now show
ing a production in Kentucky, baa been
greatly stimulated by the constant ad
vance in the crude oil market Test
work" started early In the year la begin
ning to bear results. The most recent
wildcat completion was a well in Mar-,
tln-co, completed last week and show
ing a good yield below 1,200 feet. This
well came in dry and was so reported,
but when operators returned for an In
spection, after two days, the hole was
standing full of oil, the well having
drilled itself In.
Wolfe, Morgan and Lawrence coun
ties, developed fields In the deep sand
area, have been making a little bet
ter showing in new production than
formerly. In each of these fields late
strike are reported, small, however, in
capacity.
Late results In shallow fields show
decided gain. The largest number
of completions In the history of the
field Is credited to Estill-co. for the
week, nine completions being recorded
of which only one wa a failure. One
well started out at 100 barrel daily,
while a number of completion made
twenty-five barrels each.
WADDELL IS URGED. -
While Charles J. Howes, holding over
from the last administration until his
successor is appointed and approved by
the Governor, retalna the position of
Assistant Secretary of State, no as
sumption of permanency la accepted In
Republican ranks, and the selection oi
a successor to Mr. Howes continues to
be agitated.
It Is understood that William Dingus,
of Prestonsburg, first named by Secre
tary of State James P. Lewis, was off
ered another post, but has declined. He
was not acceptable to Gov. Stanley.
Now there is talk of A. J. SturgUI, who
resigned as County Clerk of Letcher
county to accept a desk In the Secre
tary of State's office, being offered for
assistant and Mr. Dingus being put on
hia desk If the appointment is approv
ed.
In the meantime Robert Waddell, of
Somerset, said to have been urged by
Edwin P. Morrow for the Board of
Control, is being pressed upon Secre
tary of State Lewis for the assistant's
place.
TWO SHOT ON ROAD IN BOYD.
Ashland, Ky, March 27.1. Collins
and his daughter, Mrs. John. Branhom.
were ambushed on a public road about
two miles from Catlettsburg about
o'clock this afternoon, and both are at
their home to-night, fatally wounded,
it is believed.
Mrs. Branham told who she believed
fired the shots, but no warrant has
been issued and no arrest has beer
made.
Only meager details of the shooting
were told by Mrs. Branham, who was
weak from her wound and the shock.
Iler father was unable to talk. Mrs.
Branham Bald a man Jumped from be
hind a coal bank, beside the road, where
he had been hiding, and fired at them
without warning or an opportunity to
defend themselves.
First aid was rendered Mr. Collins
and Mrs. Branham by neighbors into
whose house they were taken. Later
in the evening they were removed to
their home. At midnight both the vie
time were still alive, but very low.
It is said that a brother of Mrs. Bran
ham will swear out a warrant to-morrow.
In the meantime search is being
made for the alleged assailant in West
Virginia.
FIREMAN IS MISSING.
Ashland, Ky., March 27. No word
has been received from City Fireman
Nelson Jackson, who has been missing
from his home and the central Are sta
tion Blnce two weeks ago Friday, when
he secured a leave of absence for three
days to go to West Virginia to try and
secure the release of his brother-in-law,
Sherman Hood, from the Mounds
ville penitentiary.. After Jackson left
the fire department the papers he in
tended to take with him were found in
a drawer at the Are station. Jackson
also left his pay behind, and this has
been turned over to Mrs. Jackson.
TWENTY-THIRD CHILD.
Mr. and Mrs. Chas. A. Simpson, of
Cemetery Lane, are rejoicing over the
arrival of a 11 1-2 pound boy, whom
they have named Charles Fisher Simp
son. This Is the twenty-third child
born to this household. Ashland In
dependent. CORSET DEMONSTRATION.
Miss Edwlna M. Myers representing Judge Clayton's court Workman walv
the celebrated Gossard Corsets will give ed an examination and In default of
a demonstration of latest 1916 models 'ball was committed to Jail to answer
at Pierces store Frlduy, March 31. The the charge at the April term lf ths
ladles of Louisa and vicinity are must 1 Lawrence Circuit Court. The arrest
cordlully Invited to attend. was made by Marshul Smith.
BORDERLAND FIRE.
The fire which occurred at the Bor
derland Coal Co.'s No. 2 plant yester
day proved to be one of the most dis
astrous mining fires that this coal field
has ever witnessed. The fire broke out
in the tipple shortly afternoon and had
gotten under considerable headway be
fore being discovered. A large crowd
of men Boon assembled and the fight
to extinguish the flame began, but it
proved to be a losing fight. The flame
gradually extended and from the tip
ple they soon spread to the electrio
power house where the vast and costly ,
electrical machinery, together with the
building, was entirely destroyed.
When the flames once got into the
chute through which the conveyor runs
from the Kentucky to the West Vir
ginia side, a heavy draft drew the fire
furiously to the Kentucky side and for
wniie tnreaceneu Tne powuw num-
azlne located near the incline on the
Kentucky side. The fire destroyed the
Incline up as far a the first headhouae.
The commissary, located on the West
Virginia side, is some distance from
tne tipple and escaped.
While the loss la close to 175,000, It
is almost entirely covered by Insurance
which we understand waa placed thru -a
local agency.' It Is expected that the
Borderland people will begin the re
building of this plant at once, Will
iamson News.
THREE ARE DEAD IN
EXPLOSION AT KIMBALL.
Bluefleld, W. Vs., March 28. Three
men were killed and twenty injured by
an explosion today in the mine of the
King Coal and Coke company at Kim
ball, W. Va. A number of the Injured
were burned beyond recognition and
their condition Is critical. The dead
were W. C. Mann, white miner, and
Wm. Abbott, slate foreman, and James
Tucker, both colored. The explosion
which was believed to have been caus
ed by a shot from the solid was con-.
fined to a small area so that the mine
was not seriously damaged. The in
jured were taken to the Miners' state
hospital at Welch, eight miles from
Kimball. The mine was opened In
1895 and employs several hundred men.
A fire followed the explosion but this
has been extinguished and the mine
thoroughly explored.. When the ex
plosion occurred the general manager
was in Bluefleld attending a meeting of
mining men. He returned to the mine
on a special train, taking the necessary
men and supplies with him and pick
ing up the state mine inspector and
physicians.
PREACHING AT "
v CHRISTIAN CHURCH.
Rev. E. V. Cole, Supt. of the Pan
American Mission, will preach at the
Christian church Sabbath at 11 a. m.
Evening 7 p. m. Subject of the morn
ing sermon will be "Looking unto
Jesus." In the evening Mrs. Cole will
also give some account of her moun
tain mission work In various ports of
Went Vltirfnia and Eastern Kentucky.
Everybody invited.
YANSANT REPORTED
TO BUS THE RACE
FOR CHAIRMAN OF THE DEMO
CRATIC STATE CENTRAL
COMMITTEE.
Ashland, Ky, March 28. Rufus H.
Vansant will be a candidate before the
Democratic convention in Kentucky for
position bf chairman of the Democratic
State Central Committee, and If elect
ed, as his friends believe to be certain,
will devote the some energy to pulling
the party together and carrying ll to
success that he showed in 911, when
he took hold of a disorganVed party
and carried the p.eScratic Slate tick
et, headed by Gov. McCreary. to vic
tory by a majority of 31,000.
This announcement, which will eT-J
cite Interest In every part of Kentucky,
was given out by various of Mr. Var.
sant's friends, who called upon the
Eastern Kentucky capitalist and busi
ness man, Monday evening. Mr. Van
sant himself would make no statement
other than It had been .represented to
him so strongly that, by taking this
position, he could save the State elec
toral vote to President Wilson, thut It
would be hard for him to refuse. Mr.
Vansant's friends consider the natter
as settled and are already In corres
pondence with Democratic leaders in
every county In the State.
Mr. Vansant, It Is understood, will
enter the race determined not to ac
cept any political office himself and
equally anxious to rid the Democratic;
party of factional disputes and nut it
In shape to win by deserving party
success. The requests that he I;ake
tne race nave come iu mm in
many different elements Inside tho
Democratic party, that Mr. Vansant Is
satisfied conditions are such that a
hirge majority of Kentucky Democrats
believe he can lead the party to suc
cess and that success may not other
wise be possible
CHARGED WITH HOUSEBREAKING
Arthur "Fussy" Workman was ar
rested Wednesday night charged with
breaking Into a barn and taking there
from some harness, property of D. J.
'nurchctt. Jr. On Thursday In County
about April lit
