mmmmmmwiA. nw m
'll""J''WTf'H.'"i1!MHJl"'MimHW
uv nwi)iwi -'a'i"' fc"srw""mjyiii.
0"-
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. 1I.-NO. 171
Jbuetuna
NIGHT
T C
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, MAIIOII 31, 1916.
CcnmonT, 1010, st xna Pcsuo LEMta Coumni.
PRICE ONE OEN07
THIRTY VILLISTAS KILLED,
SEVEN AMERICANS WOUNDED,
IN BATTLE WITH OUTLAWS
first Clash With Rearguard South of
Guerrero Indicates Bandits Will
Be Forced to Stand and Fight
American Forces
IVilla Said to Have Been Wounded in Assault on Car
ranza Garrison at Guerrero Massacre There
Denied Funston Confident of His
Men's Success
Twining Report Fears for
City Hall Safety; Twining
Admits Work There 0. It.
One of Director Twining oh
jections to locntion of station nnil
four-trnck subway under City
Hall, given ns "Objection 1" in his
report presented to Councils'
Finance Committee on Wednesday,
in the wording of the report va3
(Page 64, paragraph 5) :
t. Liability of damage to the
City Hall.
Director Twining today, how
ever, said:
"I never knew that anybody had
questioned that the four'track sub
way and the station could be built
under City Hall."
EL PASO, March SI. Thirty Villistas were killed, among them one of
"their leaders, Fernandez, in a fight with a detachment of the 7th United
States Cavalry at San Gcrontmp, according to information given to Car-
ranzlsta Consul Garcia by Colonel Gavira, commander of the Juarez garrison,
today. Scvcrnl Americans were wounded.
JUAKEZ, Mcx., March 31 (By courier to El Paso). The Mayor of Tcmo
gachic today reported officially to Commander Gavira's headquarters that he
had seen Villa in Tcmosachic and that the bandit was wounded.
m
American troops have cnught up with Pancho Villa in his flight and
n clash with the rearguard nlrcady has occurred, according to reports re
ceived by General Funston. The fight was said to have taken place on the
Northwestern Railway south from Guerrero. Details and the result of the
fight were not told.
Efforts arc now being mndc to force the fleeing outlaws to make a
stand and fight. Troops arc converging from three directions, and it
appears that Villa will be cornered. His move now seems to have been to the
south following a raid on the Carranza garrison at Guerrero, in which, it
is said, the entire force of 172 Carranzistas had been massacred.
General Gavira, at Juarez, however, denied that the massacre had oc
, eurrcd, stating that advices from the Carranza commander at Guerrero
( laid the Villistas were routed and that Villa himself had been shot in the leg.
Forces from the north, with Madera as a base, are rapidly moving
southward to join details of Carranzistas from Chihuahua City, together
with Colonel Dodd's columns, which are supposed to be in the lead and which
are supposed to have had the brush with the Villa rearguard.
Transportation of supplies for Pershing's expedition wns delayed at El
Paso, because of lack of equipment on the Mexican Northwestern, and bc-
' cause General Gavira has not yet received official instruction to permit the
shipments.
MALANCOURT
LOST; FRENCH
QUIT VILLAGE
Retire Before Foe Rather
Than Incur Needless
Sacrifices of Men
MAYOR, ACCUSED BY TAYLOR,
NOW SAYS HE'LL GIVE PEOPLE
KIND OF TRANSIT THEY WANT
Smith Says He Will Go Before Finance
Committee Next Monday and
. Urge That the Demands of
the Public Be Granted
Executive Denies Corporation or Boss Control Twining
Refuses to Answer Charges, but Is Willing
to Tell Councilmen What Is Behind
Transportation Controversy
QUICK NEWS
VARE LOSES $200,000 CLAIM
Senator Edwin H. Vore's claim for 00,000 for work which lie
claimed to have done at League Island Tark was struck from tlio
loan bill at a meeting of the Finance Committee at the suggestion of
Chairman Gaffucy. Gaffney later announced that he would Introduce
a bill In Councils on Thursday to pay Vare's claim outside the loan.
RUSSIAN HOSPITAL SHIP TORPEDOED AND SUNK
PARIS, March 31. Tho Russian hospital ship Portugal has been
torpedoed and sunk. The destruction of the ship was officially an
nounced today.
GERMANS LOSE HEAVILY
i VILLA REAR GUARD CLASHES
WITH AJIEKIUAiN I'UHSUJSMS
.SAN ANTONIO. Tex., March 31.
American troops have caught up with
Francisco Villa, fired upon a portion -of
his forces nml are now maklnff a tremen-
tTdous effort to check his headlong flight
Send force hltn to fight.
".1 After a week of tho hard marching;
f Villa's main force has heen located work
' ing along tho Mexican Northwestern Itatl
l roall which extends south from Guerrero
I .and the rear guard fired upon the pur
, suing American troops, according to re
i ports reaching General Funston. He said
,' I they came from sources which he bejleves
thoroughly reliable, but refused to name
;' them.
HATiarfll TiiinDtAn fa rnrtfifn nrlltnl flirht-
f Jne has occurred between United States
' 'Midlers and VUIIsta bandits.
"Our reports declare Villa has received
ft BHUilti JCIIllUIUCUlVIlia. null. l.v.tv.u.
KlFunston. "But wo are confident our
fneapable men, under strong leadership.
H JVIll be able to take caro of themselves.
, Borne of our Isolated detachments are
Kj, bound to surfer, but if Villa's troops
KltnnWA a afnnrl arnlnKt nni" nf nlir hirer
Mforces he will discover their mettle."
K Funston's reports which were received
f,iast night and early today asserted mat.
LjCarranzfstas were co-operating fully with
me American troops in a supreme nwi
to make Villa abandon his Might and make
Kia stand. General Funston considers thin
we, only nope for the American punitive
expedition to accomplish Its purpose.
"Unless we' can bring Villa to decisive
flchtlnr." said Funston. "he can continue
"Ihls flight straight through to Central
y America, and 1' hate to consider the dif
ficulties of maintaining a line of com
munication from Columbus very much
farther south."
Forestalling the usual crot nf rumors,
B (General Funston said there undoubtedly
'iTAItM k. ,mn,lftl,an4n annu nf A inarlffl tl
'casualties.
ueneral Pershing, apparently warnea
,that Villa was about to make a stand,
, w at the front with" his men. According
Ho Funntnn th simnHnr IpmlArshlli nf the
Rt American general will more than offset
HI
SPY WHO SEIZED
SHIP HAD FOUR
ACCOMPLICES
German Confesses to Care
fully Laid Plot to Blow
Up Vessel
LIES BOUND -IN IRONS
Tho Crown Prlnco lins resumed Ills
great drive on A'erdun with furious at
tacks on both sides of tho Klvcr .Mouse.
The strongly fortified village of Malan
court, 10 miles northwest of Verdun,
was captured liy tho Germans last night,
Froutnl attacks liy massed German
legions drove tho Ficnch out of the vil
lage, an important highway combina
tion point, but the French still hold re
doubts commanding the highways.
Three heavy German Infantry attacks
wero preceded by a terrific bombard
ment from German batteries on tho
heights surrounding the town.
Tho French hold on the village of
Bothlncourt, two miles east of Malan
court, is seriously threatened by tho
capture of Malancourt. It appears cer
tain that the next great German attack
on tho west hank of thr .Meuso will bo
directed against tho Dethincourt forti
fied position.
PATHS. March .11. In a fierce night at
tack the Germans captured., Jlalancnurt
the French "War Olllce announced today.
The assault was delivered upon three
sides of the village.
The French retired, hut still hold a posi
tion on the outsWrts of Malancourt proper,
which Is now a mass of ruins.
Tho Infantry assault on Malancourt wns
preceded by a violent bombardment. He
ginning yesterday, the German artillery
Increased Its cannonnde up tn the thunder
ous roll of drum (Ire, and long Into tho
night the big guns continued to rain their
steel upon the French positions before tho
infantry was hurled forward.
As the troops advanced the range of
the German cannon was lengthened and
they opened a curtain of fire behind the
French ranks. The Teutons rolled for-
Mayor Smith announced this afternoon that he would ro heforc the!
Finance Committee of Councils at Its special meeting next Monday afternoon
and urge that the people of Philadelphia he given what they want in tho
rapid transit fight. If the people want the plana ns suggested by former1
Director Taylor, instead of those of Director Twining, then they should have
(hem, the Mayor declared.
The Mayor's announcement followed the accusation by former Transit
Director Taylor that the Mayor was responsible for the Twining emasculated
transit plan.
The Mayor asserted that he had never changed his position In regard'
to rapid transit, and reiterated his statement made several weeks ago that)
the people of the city would he given what they want. Mr. Twining, how
ever, the Mayor insisted, should be given nn opportunity to bring his views
before the people and they should be given intelligent consideration. "
While making no direct reply to the specific charges contained in thei
statement made public this morning by former Transit Director Taylor, tho
Mayor declared that he would defy any person to impugn to him improper
motives. He asserted emphatically that he was not owned by corporations
or political leaders.
Continued on Paae Seven, Column Two
THE WEATHER
The lntoxlcatlne effects of spring
(Weather are to be held responsible for
taany etraylnga from the normal at this
Mason, all almanacs agree. The lone Ger-
.man who captured a ship with a revolver
'undoubtedly had spring fever: ha didn't
know what to do with himself and so he
.decided to amuse himself and America at
Wge, and he evidently succeeded, The
pOnly thing wrong with the story Is that
.ttnd German rtlHn'f na, awnv dr it TIfllnvad
Vagabond like that deserves. It is easy
Bra horrify, and to scare and even to In
terest humanttv. but it Is mlehty hard to
wnake the whole world laugh. Mr. Schiller,
b"ie nero of this romance of the sea, would
IliAe given the greatest of Herman noets
tnd romancers who had the same name, a
IPlot aa good as that of his "William Tell."
P. As It Is. he ought to make his mark In
Rule world nf fll-tlnn himself. If he will
ranslate his actions Into prose.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
fair toninht' Rnlnrtinii inirreastna
fcloudineaa; not much change jn fern
INrfiture: gentle winds, mostly north-few.
For details see page 17.
XOST AND FOUND
pMNPUAO. of patent leather, on car. H
Wi bearing Mra. Richard Alim Mitchell,
jwturn 1108 Walnut tanJ rwtln reward.
T llreastpln, lover"' knot, with, diamond.
en illdvala aa. ear. No. 7J or 60. IWward
J returned 8100 N Front
ril&&
3IU
"w 11 suyjh t;
JW& " ' "e Rretnt Tneatro Tutaday
-wooon, a sialic lox lur iei wo"
I'WarJ. Addresa V 'I. Bo , Mrloa
HNfe IlfcUlft- Lt TnuriiUy v. ,
K.K1"! ut Octueen. UfKKDt and to"';
KJblba-jM lateral reward JUtura to fnaa.
OWw Vn aj,4 found Ad os yin M
liu a Staff Corresfotulrnt
LRWES. Del., March 31. Krnest Schil
ler, the young German .stowaway, who
held up the British steamship Mntoppo
slngled-handed outside New York harbor,
confessed today that he had plotted with
four other Germans to capture the 5000
ton vessel with her valuable cargo, run
her to sea and raid British ships.
The four were to hove stowed away
with him. but lost their ne.-ve a few hours
before the Matoppo sailed from Iloboken.
Schiller said he decided to carry out the
program alone, planning to make his es
cape to tho Delaware shore after looting
the captain's safe. IIo refused to tell the
names of the conspirators.
The cargo of the Mntpppo was unloaded
today In the search for the bombs on
"timo fuses," which Schiller said he had
hidden in the hold to blow up the vessel
If he and his companions could not suc
ceed In cowing the crew with revolvers.
As It waB, he alone kept the crew In sub
mission at the point of his revolver for 19
hours.
Schiller may be the master mind of the
wholesale dynamite explosions which have
occurred on wharves In different parts of
the country is the belief of Xew York de
tectives who Interrogated him today In
tha Lewes lockup. Present at the nuea-
tynlng was Agent Brlce, of the United
Jtates Immigration Service. Schiller is
paid to have admitted that he was an ex
"pert chemist, and also that he lived in
cities In the West where mysterious ex
plosions have occurred.
"Nine bombs and Infernal machines, to
Which clocks are attached with the time
fixed whet they should explode, are still
In the hold of the Matoppo," Schiller Is
said to have declared. According to the
reported confession the explosions were
to have occurred within nine days after
the vessel sailed from Iloboken.
Detectives refused to make public Just
what Schiller said, tie was to be taken
to Philadelphia or; ,'ew York on the 3:30
train this afternoon, it was said, but the
detectives refused to reveal where they
would take their prisoner.
It was said that If It was found that
Schiller 'had a criminal record In New
York he would be returned there; other
wise he would be taken to Wilmington for
trial on the charge of piracy. Schiller Is
reported to have declared he had been ar
rested as a spy In Hull, England, at the
outbreak of the war, but managed to
escape.
FKABS BRITISH WRATH,
"I never again expect to step on Ger
man solL It I am placed aboard- the
steamship Matoppo it means death by the
rope or being shot down in the Tower of
London. I realize that death faces me and
I will look upon America as being a kind
Continued en l'ai Two. Column On
Continued on I'nge Four, Column Tour
Transit Director Twining declined to
answer nny of the charges of hl3 predeces
sor In ofllce Carefully evndlng nny of the
(tuestlmiH inised by the Taylor stntcment,
the Director nnnounced that he would
nnswer nothing until he uont before the
Flnnnce Committee of Councils this nfter
noon, nt Its special meeting.
Mr. Tivlning at the same time Intimated
that ho would be willing. I ' authorized or
asked by tho members of the Flnanco
Committee, to tell what Is actually behind
tho transit controversy.
THE MAYOR'S STATEMENT.
The complete stntement handed nut In
typewritten form by Mayor Spilth fol
lows: "My position now Is, ns It always has
been, that Mr Twining should be given an
opportunity to present publicly his sug
gestions aB to rapid transit, so that they
.mlght.bo compared with lit Taylor sug
gestions, and that then the pcoplo, for
themselves, through their representatives
In Councils, might flnnlly determine which
of these plans best suited them.
"If the people nnt the plant slue
Kfiiteil by Mr. Tnjlur, then (hat U what
they Khntilil hate, nml It In my purpoae
nn Monday next to go before the l'lnance
Commllter, when Hie transit Hem la un
der dlNriiftMlnn, ami publicly urge that the
people be glirn what they want.
"The publication of wilful, deliberate
and malicious perversion of tho facts does
not represent public opinion. Mere in
nuendo is an Injustice to me, and an Im
position on the public.
"I defy any person to impute to mo
any Improper motives In any public acts
of mine. I nin not owned by nny cor
poration or political leader; nor am I to
JOHNSON ATTACK
DRIVES FACTIONS
INTO OPEN WAR
PENROSE AND VARE
LEADERS IN CLASH
ON TAX INCREASE
Charges Coercion of Office-, Trainer Urges Finance
holders in Favor
Brumbaugh
of
Committee to Consider
Need of Funds
OTHERS M A Y RESIGN
"Suffering for Truth a Blessing"
"Friday Is the day of sacrifice," said
the Rev. Dr,Floyd W. Tomklns today s,t
the Lenten services at Christ Church, 2d
street above Market "On this day Christ
died making the day forever sacred. Wa
must accept ilia sacrifice If we would
le.' said Doctor Tomklns. "We must
l follow Hts. example bp4 sacrifice ourselves
jfoi others . we must proclaim tbs news of
I salvation to alt the world and make the
Cross tn world ssntre : we mvat couas
nil guScrUMT tor M truth a, blessis"
The charge of Charles Johnson, of Nor
rlstown, that Governor Brumbaugh and
Attorney General Francis Shuiil; are
coercing State officeholders Into support
ing the Governor's presidential candidacy,
accompanied by Mr. Johnson'H resignation
as State Insurance Commissioner, was In.
terpreted today by politicians as tho sig
nal for open war between the Penrose and
the Rruinbaugh'Yare factions, and the
abandonment of all hope that may have
lingered in the Republican State Organ
ization that a truce might be patched up.
It was generally taxen tor granieu mat
Senator Penrose knew about the move of
Johnson beforehand, and It nas said that
Johnson and other State officeholders,
who are expected to resign their positions
to enter the factional war, would take an
active part in opposing the Governor In
the campaign for Presidential delegates.
Speaker Charles A. Ambler, reputed
Brumbaugh candidate for the Hepubltcun
nomination for Auditor General today de
clined to comment "at this time" upon
the resignation of Charles Johnson as
State Insurance Commissioner.
Johnson sponsored the Ambler can
didacy when the Speaker decided to enter
the contest ror tne nomination, ins posi
tion as treasurer of the Republican State
Committee and his former unquestioned
allegiance to Senator Penrose gave his
Indorsement of Ambler considerable Im
portance because of Jonnson'a apparent
desertion of Penrose for the Governor
"I do not care to discuss Mr. Johnson's
VARE BEFORE BODY
Continued on Vase EeTeutceu, Column Tho
"Joe" Glbbs Is Promoted
City Hall appointments made today In-)
elude the selection ot jospn v. uiuus,
1708 Arch street, for the position of first
assistant lu the engineering force of the
Bureau of Surveys. The appointment was
made by Director Datesroan. of the De
partment of Public Works and carries a
salary of 11300 a year. "Edward A. Mc
Nally. 6324 Woodland avenue, was named
by Director k'rusen, of the Department of
Health and Charities, as an overseer in
the Bureau of Charities, at a salary of
$1?00 a year.
Ridley Park Plana Flower Show
The Ridley Park Civic Association will
hold a flower show later In the season. It
U planned to hold a baby show tn con- 1
junction with Uie floral display. F-. J. '
Michel!, of Ridley Park, is at tho head of I
jive cijwmltWa In charge, I
Q mild clash between the Penrose-Mc-.N'ichol
and the Vara leaders In Councils
over the necessity for full publicity on
the question of an increase In the tax rate
In 1917 marked the opening if the meet
ing of the Finance Committee today, when
the revision of the items of the (86,800,000
loan bill was begun.
Select Councilman Trainer, leading the
Penrose-MoN'Icliol forces, at the opening
of the meeting asked Chairman Oaffney
to be allowed to put the tax-rate Increas
before Controller Walton, who had been
requested to be present at the meeting.
Chairman Gaffney expressed his will
ingness, but President l.ennon, of Select
Council and the leader of the Vara fac
tion, interposed with the suggestion that
the loan should be considered first, since
It was Imperative to htuethe bill framed
as soon as possible. Before any decision
was made Controller Walton asked to ba
excused until 3:30 o'clock on the grounds
that, this being the last day of the month,
his presence n his own office was needed
until the banks closed for the business
day.
Both sides agreed to the parley, arid the
real political clash, which will probably
follow last week's acrimonious verbal bat
tle, was postponed until later this after
noon. SEKATOP. VARE PBESENT,
Senator Vare entered the Finance Com
mittee room shortly before 3 o'clock. He
had earlier received permission to come
before the committee personally and ex
plain his claim for (210.000 for work done
at the League Island Park and on Gov
ernment avenue. When the Senator en
tered the room every place found was
filled and be was assorted to the clerk's
seat as a mater of courtesy
When the actual discussion of the loan
bill began. Select Councilman Seger asked
Chairman Gaffney If any new Itemswere
being considered for the loan.
"Ves," replied the chairman, "if by any
revision a surplus could be found. My
Idea of revision would be (500,000 for re
paying In West Philadelphia, provisions
for Cobb's Creek sewer, the art museum,
money for the construction, of the Henry
Hiiiuo bridge and u special Item for the
$jui. strott bridge.
Mr beger Immediately replied
Wea to my mind, you have left out
two important Items. Provision should
be deterred from doing what I believe to
bo my duty by misleading or untruthful
newspaper editorials. I havo rcpcntedly
stated as to transit that I stand for what
the people want"
Tho Twining emasculated substitute
plan wns riddled In n dozen plnces In tho
statement by the former transit director.
Mr. Taylor charged that tho adoption of
the plan would mean giving the Philadel
phia Rapid Transit Company the strangle
hold on Philadelphia and ilni-lnrp,! thnr
nny proper 'and cfflclont rapid transit de
vcloprnent for this city would be Impos
sible Under the Twining bohtnll system.
The responsibility for the changes wns
laid directly to Mayor Smith. Mr. Taylor
called upon the citizens of Philadelphia Ui
assert themselves. Director Tulning's ar
gument for nn Increased, fare until 1800 Is
fallacious, Mr. Taylor asserted. The orig
inal plan for a four-track subway undrr
City Hall and a great Islnnd station there,
It was shown. Is the key to the entire sjs
tern nml tho proposed changes thcro are
not being recommended In good faith, It Is
charged by tho former director.
The remnrnl nf the City ltnll Klntlnn
tn llriind and Areli streets, Mr. Taj lor di
rectly charged, will ilrtunlly present the
free trimmer of pMrnccri between the
Mnrket street suliwny nml the llroml
street siibwuy. The conitrnrtlim of the
fnur-triirk Milmay under City Hull, nnd
the locution of Hip Htntlnn nt thnt point.
nrrriorr, lie iirrlurrd, lire eonentlnl to
the city' entlro plan for transit develop
ment. The proposal to tax the outlying sec
tions for their local high-speed lines was
Ignored temporarily by the former Dl
rector, but City Solicitor Connelly, In
nn opinion Issued simultaneously with the
statement from Mr. Tnylor, held It uncon
Mltution.il nnd almost equivalent to con
fiscation to levy such a tax.
Horace V. Murl'ml) en, rlinlrmun of the
AII-l'IillHiIrlphlit Itiipld Transit I.riiRiie,
todny demanded Hie renlgnntlon nf III
ret lor Tnlnlntr, "III usefulness Is ended,"
he said. "He should resign nt once, livery
toller should unite In n demand that he
he 'fired' lit once unless ho Koes Into vol
untary retirement."
Although he would make no direct
reply to the charges of Mr. Taylor, Direc
tor Twining said:
"I have nothing to say. I do not in
tend to enter either u. political or a ner-
r-oiiui mscussion or tne matter. 1 have
done my work nnd the renort Is there.
That Is all there Is to It. I know Mr.
Taylor has his objects In view and I have
mine. My report Is there and my con
science Is clear."
When reminded of Mr. Taylor's charge
that he had admitted even nfter he had
prepared his report that the original plans
under City Hall weie possible, the Direc
tor said:
"I never knew that anybody had ques
tioned that the four-track subway and
the station could be built under City
Hall."
Director Twining has been requested to
appear before the Finance Committee of
Councils this afternoon at 2 o'clock, and"
It Is possible that the entire transit prob
lem will be threwn open to a general
discussion by the members of the Finance
Committee at that time. It is the in
tention of the committee leaders to de
termine definitely upon the amount of the
transit Item In the municipal loan today.
Whether It "111 be Increased to a figure
above tne (3S.0C0.000 requested by Di
rector Twining is causing widespread
speculation.
State Senator Kdwin H. Vare today
45 BRITISH SAILORS DROWNS CUTTER CAFSIZES
LONDON, March 31. Forty-five sailors of the British cruiser
Conquest wero drowned through tho capsizing of a cutter during n
gale, It was officially announced today.
BRITAIN CALLS MARRIED MEN TO COLORS
LONDON, March 31. -Married groups 33 to 41 wctc today called
lo the colors to report May 5.
BRITISH CASUALTIES IN MARCH 20,434
LONDON, March 31. Brlti&u cas.ua lticn in .March were 1107 of
ficers and 10,317 men, according to published lists. ' ' '
STATE TREASURY HAS $3,582,402.49 BALANCE
nAHHIsnUHG. Pa., March 31. The State Treasury at tho close of business
today. March 31, had a balance of $3,582,402.49 on hand, aa compared with
$-4,493,404.41 nt the close of business In February. Tho receipts for tho month
amounted to $2,302,318.70, and disbursements $3,213,410.68.
H. SNOWDEN MARSHALL FACES CONTEMPT CHARGE
WASHINGTON, March 31. Tho House of Representatives will be asked to
decide whether II. Snowdon Marshall, Federal District Attorney In Nqw York, city.
Is In contempt of that body. This was decided on today by tho House Judiciary
Committee. A resolution citing Marshall to appear before tho bar of tho House
nnd answer the contempt chnrRes Inter will bo presented to tho House for action.
The entire case irrow'H out f t10 indictment returned against Representativa
Frank Buchanan, of Illinois, for alleged pro-German activities.
BRITISH ADMIRALTY DENIES BRONZE TORPEDO CHARGE
LONDON, March 31. Tho Admiralty today Issued an official denial of the
semiofficial German accusation that tho British navy uses bronzo torpedoes.
COPS SEEK DOWNTOWN FIRE "BUG"
Tollce of tho 4th street and Snyder nvenuo station' aro looking for a mys
terious fire "bug" that wan abroad last night. Two alarms, ono from 11th and
Mifflin streets and tho others from 12th nnil Itltner streets, were sent In shortly
after midnight. Hundreds of persons In the sections rushed to the street at
each alarm, but careful search failed to reveal a Are In either Instance.
GOLD BEATERS OUT ON STRIKE
The gold beaters aro on strike. This strike is country wide and affects, all
told, about GOO men who make their living by pounding tho precious metal Into
dust preparatory to Its- being formed for sheeting purposes, Thero are 115 men
cut In this city. The strikers demand more money. They now make $16.50 to
$18,50 a week and wnnt nn average increase of $4.
GRAND DUKE'S ASSASSIN DIES OF TUBERCULOSIS
LONDON. JIarch 31. A Dally News dispatch fijom Milan says that Nedo
Korovltch, one of the convicted a'ssasslns of tho Archduke Franz Ferdinand of
Austrla-IIungnry rt Sarajevo, tho act that precipitated the European war, la
teported by Vienna papers to have died of tuberculosis In prison, Korovltch is
the third of tho band found sullty of the murder who Is alleged to have died in
prison of the same dlseabe. Ho was originally bentenced to death, but his
sentence' was commuted to 20 years' penal servitude.
ORCHESTRA TO GIVE "POP" CONCERTS IN MAY
The "pop" concerts of the Philadelphia Orchestra will be held again this year,
and for three weeks Instead of two. This announcement has been made definitely.
The concerts will bo held during the week of May 1 and again for two weeks
beginning May 15. Thaddeus Ilich. concertmaster of the orchestra, and Daniel
Maquarre, first flute, will conduct.
Continued on Par) fourteen, Column Que
STATE POLICE GUARD
WYOMING VALLEY
Entire Force Summoned to Pre
vent Lawlessness During
the Trolley Strike
2000 ARMS WORKERS ON STRIKE IN CLYDE DISTRICT
LONDON, March 31. Two thousand munition workers are now on strike Ii
the Government gun factories In tho Clyde district, and reports from Glasgow
today said the labor troubles threatened to spread. Fewer than 400 Btrikers hav
returned to work In spite of tho pressure of union leaders.
Tha, Government today directed serious attention to the situation at Liver
pool, where 10,000 dock workers rejected tho award of arbitrators and refuted
to return to work.
22,000 SERBS PERISHED IN FLIGHT TO SALONICA
BERN, March 31.- All but 8000 of the 30,000 Serbian refugees who flad
toward Salonlca when the German and Bulgarian army invaded Serbia perished
on the way from cold and hunger, according to a report received here from.
Mile. Comte, of Geneva, who is the Salonlca agent of the Swiss Red Cross,
CootUiurU ou l'i Two, Iqlqam IJlx
AVILKES-BAURE, March 31 Before
sundown every member of the State police
in Pennsylvania will be In tbo Wyoming
Valley to suppress lawlessness and main
tain peace and order while the trolley
strike Is over.
Sheriff George F. Buss announced today
that he bad appealed for aid of the State
troopers and he declared that the com
plete force was on ita way here. Troop
B is stationed here permanently. Troop
C. of Pottsvllle, baa been here for several
weeks. Troop A U on tta way from Greens
burg and Troop p la coining from Butter.
The troopers will be under the charge
of Sheriff Buss and Captain Pitcher, of
Troop U They will be scattered la
squads throughout the entire valley.
In addition to these forca the Sheriff
announces that he has rwora In spares J
deputies and that these deputies will '4
the trooper la matntalolog peace.
GERMAN SHIPS TO CARRY AID TO BELGIANS
LONDON, March 31. In a.oordance with the announcement by Lord Robert
Cecil, Minister of "War Trade, UyU the British Government had. decided to- permit
the American Commission for Relief of Belgium tp Bharter German steamships
In neutral ports, eight Interned German ships at New York will be bartered.
. Lord Robert added it was. the purpose of the Government to continue the
facilities hitherto afforded the commission bo long, ua it maintained proper
relations with the German Government.
PRUSSIAN LORDS WANT VOICE IN FOREIGN AFFA1HS
BERLIN. March 31. The Prussian House of Lords is unable ta share, the
Government's views, as expressed in the Norddeutsch AUgemflS.6, Zeitutis
February 13, that only the Reichstag' la competent to discuss tljS' empire's Jb
elgn affalrs3yThta declaration la set forth in a statement teeued la fcshalf of JmkU
factions 10 House. The House of Lord it is added, recognlws hat any uch'
dlsrusslonX take Into consideration the military situation and limit Itseif
according! Lords declare, however that while fully reccgaUg tn cgua t-
dlnary dlfflCsof thejgftpbiem ; resented, the y hold the view W "mistake
fcave feeou nSWTs. yart' twsfes in tht internal pvlicx," ."mM
i " ?
.
