THE WEATHER F01R
Fair to-day and tomtrrowj
IT SHINES FOP ALL
north
Highest temperatur yei
Uf tailed weainer, man. in
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 213.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1916. CoPrlffh.,t9ie.ej the Bun rrinUng and I'ubUsMng AuoclaUon.
PRIC
CAST.
moaerata
AWO CENTS.
M
VILLA KILLS 170
MEXICANS; DODD
STOPS FLIGHT
i
Bawl rapt urns Town of
(tiicrrero. Slaying En
tire Garrison.
C1IIKI' SHOT IX LKG,
SAYS WOK I) TO JUAREZ
YillMas Xow Pet ween Gen.
Pershing ami the Fly
ing Squad.
WJl.KS AM) RAIL TO
SOUTH CUT BY RAND
Army Will Not Ship Sup-
jilies From hi Paso Under
lies From EI Paso Under
Present Conditions.
known to Gen. Pershing, the American
V a .in-l In- band are between Gen. I '"mmnnder. lie s keeping the location
Petrhing on the north and Col. Dodd ' 11 found ""-ret. No news from the
ami his living squadron on the south. I oUvancv ba"p or from the scouts operat
t tiucrrero. according to advices to l,,s sou,h ,,f l"r-' w-" n""lc lullc -Cn
rum-ton. ! '' by ,he Cen"r'
The lo..itlon of VlllaV camp is given 1 Tlu' Arawlr!1 armv "'I" l,olnt
n despatches to Gen. Kuiutnn as at ! we" ""PPH "Ith food and transport
it.. r..rh.. s..n rioromlnn n,i H,. la ! ,rrt,lw "rfi "Tlvlnff regularly from the
1 aim-da on the Santa Maria Hiver
i...r ;i of Guerrero, ulniut 110 miles
, I
south of the border.
il.i attacked the town of Guerrero
tu .'ini followers. Gen. Funston has
been Informed. Gen. Gavlra and Con
u' Garcia got the same report.".
The garrison at Guerrero, 170 men.
rrc put to death by Villa, who was
hot in the leg, despatches to Juarez
to-niclit said. '
If Gen. Pershing knows where Villa !
I he is not telling anybody at his
ii.iHirandeH headquarters, a wireless
despatch from that point last night
njtol.
Tho xmrricm trooi.s ate usln- the i
J no American troops ate usm me
.-a.iro.id south of Casn.s Gratidcs. ac- 1
to-dlnir to this desn.itch.
Tills is the ilrst confirmation of the.
rumor that Gen. Pershing had been us
ln: the railroads to transport troops
d-i-pite the fuct that Carranza only al
lowed the I'nlted States army to send
J'iplies as "commercial business."
t e Carranza forces are entirely
fi.v to the Americans, giving
t- -rtv i-ooperatlon.
f in couts are said to have reported
i.. a clash between Vllllsttuj and
1 . ' l'l..'HH.
1 ' Hell, 1'nlted States comman
'1. i I 'I Huso, conferred to-day with
fi tlicra of .lu. ire, and Consul
(-1-1,1 over the use of tho Mexican
- a s'i rii Hallro.id.
Hell read M-voral telegrams
Washington and Gen. Gavlra !
.''Ti.-i- to take up tho question at
w th Gen. Obi-egon, Minister of
s ippdfs have gone to tho front
f in I. P.imi and probably will not go
'- -re Saluiday, f then.
T War Department has arranged
'i y iUht large aeroplanes for use
f I - o. They will each carry two
mm and the motors will develop 150 Lhlng reported that l.'nited States iroop-e-inwrr.
They will be delivered In ers were Injured lu a train wreck. Gen.
Gavlra at Juarez has declared that un-
dcr no circumstance would the l.'nited
fls'V f7 T 4 IIV-irrxmL'ri, ..States be allowed to use the railroads
ur.. I lldiiix II UUiUt,L, ! except for sending supplies as "com-
IS WORD IN JUAREZ '"rtlal
Biiiolll. Itc purled Jlnve Cap. I
Inreil Tim of Guerrero.
i.i. Tex., March 30. Gen. Villa ;
'- M-d a force of 1 o Curranzlsta
ois miller Gen. Gavozos In Guerrero-
I, , ,,. . ,. i
- ...v and captured the city, accord-
" i to dispatches received by Consul
lot ii tii-i-lglit.
I,.,, ,. , ,
" "i ui sanii:
"' ' 't In the engagement with the
C n iiu,,t.is Villa was shot in the leg, '
I,. . 1
ipcd.
.ia fnl foice was reported ' to
f tai.cn i.art In tin: captuto of
G ii rrern. Tin. small garrison soldiers
mo match for tho Vllllsta band.
VILLA IS CUT OFF
FROM OLD HAUNTS
r"l. IX.d.l will Pre.eiit lllin From
i. .lining Mountain!,
s VsTo.xio, Tux.. March 3D. Ad
vi ' ea-huig Gen, Funston late to-'-f't
repoit detachments of the Amerl
ti troops south of Villa and his band.
Ian It-foriiMtlon gives the location of
!' hui.lid I.h ml at tho ranches Han
'Hi'i.imr. ami De a Quenieda. These
"ii Urn headwaters of the Santa
urn liner soino distance north of
'trrero,
h hrfs been understood heie for sov
,' .' Hint Col. Dodd'H raivalry Is
-" oi ..ueriero. An ofllclal report Jn
fame mi-ssage to-night aays Villa
- - ...la.-hed ihe Carranza
es :il.!l..l.a.. . I
d r '""' Kl1"'" " "in soldiers, num
"nog Un, This tight Is supiiosed to
ii,..i. . '" ',"l " Monday night and
M In.lle.iiH that Villa has 200 or
In hi e-oii)iiW.d.
!""""y aiound Guerrero Is that
lis ' ' ,MH l"'en PW-'tl Villa 'would
it i . ''Hri' on a harassing warfare.
Csn. '. V'1 lo llHVe b"11 " Ject of
-'"- lonililiij and Dodd lo get south
Ouericro with the hone of comln up
ConiPtMed on TMr4 Pag.
NEU THAIS LOSE 203 SHITS.
Wahiiinuton, Muroh 30. Senator
Nelson of Minnesota submitted to
the. Senate to-day u memorandum
containltitf n list of all tho ships of
tho tieutrul North Hca, countries
that have been sunk "by Herman
submarines, mines or warships be
tween AuguM t. 191-1, and March 25,
IBlti." The name of tho nhlps,
their nationality, tonnage, date of
destruction and manner In which
they were destroyed, arc Riven. In
all 203 ship were sent to the bot
tom. They were of the follow
Ins nationalities Norwegian. 97 ;
Swedish, 50; Danish, 28; Dutch, 28.
Sunk by submarines, 13S; sunk
by mines, 66; sunk by warships, 1.
The tonnage of the ships was as
follows:
Norwegian, T..91 1; Swedish, 19,
261; Dutch. 37.720; Danish, 7,731.
Total. 140,623.
GEN. PERSHING USING
RAILWAYS IN MEXICO
No, Opposition From Carran
zistas on Transportation
of F. S. Troops.
Br liKoiir.K ii. ri.i:MKNT.
Special Correspondent of Tur Srx.
llCtflOtAIT'.sl (it viil. C ..p... ..-
AnMT ,N. Caas giunpks, Mexico. March
SO, by wireless to Columbus, N. M. If,
the whereabouts of Pancho Villa Is
border at Columbus with food and
other necessities.. Other trains are
carrying the supplies south to the
troops in the Held. Drivers of trans
ports report that there is no shortage
of rations anywhere among the men.
Little sickness Is reported among any
of the commands operating In the field,
i Hecently the weather has been ufiiwu-
I nllv colli In thn mountains iin.l there- La
,,, MltIlc f0mpluint from this source,
but on the whole the men are standing
the campaign exceedingly well.
The censorship Is so strict that even
American newspapers ar not tier-
mltted to be brought Into camp here
until tliov ,,r Mvr-.i .1...- .an
12 very body
nas learueii me return 01
' Mor,,,,-w ""ir" nuM- however, as
,, Wrc.I1IKt,,, Ul tl. ,u npre
Sjturday night and was sent south bv I
.-cous and teamsters this week.
'"'" TmiiR is receiving Hearty
cooperation from the Carranza otllcers.
- to all oiilwutd appearances. There has
been no opposition to the movement of
' troops over the railroad south of here
and Gon. Pershing has been extended
very courtesy he has requested so far
as known. The men of the Carranza
forces also appear friendly to the
American Hoops.
It has become known here that Villa
Iliad a cloe call for hl.s life as he
passed south across the Corralltosj
ranch, where he killed several of the
native employees. One of the men of
the ranch, enraged at Villa's bru
tality, leaped upon the bandit leader
with a big knife, but was lieaten off
by members of the Imud before ho
cnlll(' llarm V1"".'. ,.Tl,e . man was pcr"
sonalty shot by Villa, the story comes
from Mexicans who claim to have been
on the ranch ul the time.
This Is the first authentic Information
that Gen. Pershing has been using tho
.Mexican Northwestern Hallro.id for the
transportation of troops south of Casas
Grande?. Gen. Funston suspected as
,llt,M Kalu-.ll il.il'. l.rr,, tel.,... l-.nn !.
BURGLARS IN ST. PETER S.
Mcnl
Vnlunlilr I'n I lit I till
Itaitllli-a uf Church,
l-'eillll
Special lalilt Uespatch to Tits Sex
ii 'in ,.. 1 .. ... ...
rr.i.iiim, .iiimii iui ki.i. n en-
tcre(, , haw t sti ,.,,er.s Iast
night and stole four of Peruglno's
panels, a copy of Raphael's "Infant
Jesus and ht. John, ll.isi.ino s painting
rc,Csenth.g
a c.nonatlon. Guerclno s
"I'lngellallun" and another painting,
Monti-gnu's "Christ Hearing the Crosa."
The thieves failed l carry away two
Illuminated missals ftnin the sacristy
The vllce ate Investigating.
Slgnor Itlocl. Government Director of
Fine Arts, estimated the value of tho
paintings at 2.50ft,0fln.
The thieves smashed the door of the
saorlty and piobubly were frightened
nway before they could take the very
I valuable missals
ALL ON BLACK LIST "ENEJIY."
Ilnalanil Will Kflir Shipment!
Kvpii to .Neulrnl C'nniitrlpa.
Special Cable, litepalrli to Tins Sus,
London, March 30. The i?nteHe
states that a new order hi council de
clares that goods consigned to black
listed firms In neutral countries will
lie presumed to be destined for tho
enemy. The adoption of Article 19 of
the Declaration of London does not af
fect the Hritlsh right to capture condi
tional contraband, whether Us carriage
to Its destination be direct or entail
transshipment or subsequent land trans
port. YUAN TO QUIT, T0KI0 HEARS.
1,1 Yamn llunar to Hueeerd lllni,
rkln lemche Indicate.
Special Cable UeepatcJl lo Tint Svx,
London, March 30, A despatch
from Toklo asserts that Pekin advices
nay the resignation of President Yuan
Uhlh-k'al In believed to do Imminent,
VIoe-Presldent Id Yuan Hung will
probably auoceod the President, theie
deapateksM My.
BOY SETS BLAZE
IN ORPHANS' HOME
Only 51 Yearn Old. Vint
Posed ns Hero ofHrook
lyii Institution.
MANY PLACED IX DANEH
Hospitnl mid Home for Aged
of Cluirt'h Charity Foun
dation Menaced.
A nine-year-old boy who had been pos
lug as the hero of a fire that swept three
floors of the Orphan House of the Church
Charity Foundation, at Albany nenue
and Herkimer street, Ili.siklyn, late .Yes
terday afternoon, confessed lat night to
Fire Marshal Itrophy tint he started the
tire himself by throwing a lighted match
Into the linen room.
Thanks to a lire drill and to the fact
that all except one of the ninety-right
boys and girls In the orphanage were at
supper on the ground floor, there was
no suspicion vf a punle and nobody was
harmed. Two women teacher had to l'e
helped down the escapes from the fourth
floor, nlncty-llve patients In St. John's
Hospital, near the orphanage, were In
danger, nnit the old folks In the Home
for the Aged, which Is part of the same
quadrangle, weie, to ay the Ic.ut,
fidgety.
The boy, who, accoullng to the Klre
Marshal, owned up after three hours of
Vollte resistance, Is Cieorge Zutell, one of
the foity-elght bojs cued for by the
Protestant Kplscop.il Church In the Or
phan lloui-e. It was he who had raced
Into the dining room whete hli com
rades were at supper and announced
that the building nns on the.
.Mnrclied Out at Order.
At a won! from Sister Julia, a dea
coness In charge of the dining loom, the
ihlldreu arose from their bread and milk
and marched quietly Into the safely of
the open qu.ire which Is surrounded
by buildings of the Institution. Although
nil the bread hhiI milk wus ruined by
the Hood that the firemen turned Into
the Orphan House the children wvre glad
enough to get out with their lives, and
they agteed that Genrglo Zutell was a
pretty tlpe sort of a lal to dlscoxer the
(Ire and give the alarm so promptly.
When Marshal lirophy began his In
vestlgatlou In the sitting room of the
Home for the Aged, Georgia told his
,or' ,wl"' H '"""'tr "tlT of prlK H!
"'d that Sister Julia, before supper, sent
i lihti itntftiilru u Hi KMn ( Slllitniiphpr
.,, , .., i.i t.v..nu .i, i,elnr ,lis
dpllned foi violation of a rule by being t
nt , ,.arl.. t lls iierpie's Job,
to see that Frank actually did tindtcssj
to see that I-rank
anil get Into bed,
and get into lied, and then to place
Frank'- clothes In the linen room,
This mission performed ami Frank
Stuniacher tucked away In the sma' I
dormitory on the second floor. Oeorglc ,
Zutell was to go downstairs, gvt Frank's
supper ami take it up to him. for an eve-1
ulug without bread and milk was no part
of the culprit's punishment, Georgln
made good on this eecond errand too
and It was when he returned t the din-1
Ing room that he told Sister Julia that I
the second lloor was allic.
Sospeeled I'lllllslirll lln).
For a long time Marshal lirophy sus- (
pected that possibly the Stuniacher bnv
hail fired the building to avenge himself
for his punishment. Hut after an hour
of questioning lie made up his mind that i
he had tho wrong boy Turning again I
to the hei ii. George Xutell, he questioned
him patiently for three hours In the
presence of a Sister of St. John the
Kvangellst Finally, according to the
r .re ...... so..,. '- "' '' ' ' " ,"tl
U: VT. ',. .!' ,,.!." ,nl,h an'1'
told of setting the tire,
The slsteis and the superintendent,
Canon Paul F. Swett, said that Georgio
Zutell had a good record and had no
grudge against any one so far as thev
knew. The Fire Marshal made a fnrnul
complaint against the boy and left him
In the custody of the sister".
While the sutipetievs children were
marching out George Cox, engineer of
all the buildings, saw from Si. John's
Hospital, eighty feet away, smoke puff
ing fiom several windows on the sec
ond Hour of the Orphan Home.
' Hoy Iteseued liy Himlneer. '
1 Cox raced across the roail and up one
of the oiphanagi; tire escapes. On th
secoilil ouor lie oeii.t. n i-u eioiK inn. .
. . . .. ret .., ... . i.. . I
1 KasjllllK. . nrrti w.tn oeoi, in nit.....-
for It was ."i.l.'i o'clock, but the Interior
of the oti.hauage was darkened by
smoke. Cox Jumped through the open I
window and reached the dormitory, ,
I,u r.t.tti.l e-VuiiL- S-Illni!inhn. u-nii. 1
derlng- In his pajamas and trying to
feel his way out.
About that time Janitor Frank llls -
,hrn,...h Ihe l,ll,lli.
. u. rejel.ed the l.ov. Tocether Fox,
and Hlssert carried hint to the window- ur ueropaines nc-ie aiiucheu many
and down the fire escape, where he times, hut a'l our pilots leiutneil un
presently Joined his comrades none the Injured.
worse for his scare,
Two teachers, Mis. Mae Irving and
Miss Klleen Humes, were trapped lu
their looms on tho fouith floor. They
did not suffer from smoke, however, and
walked down the lire escape.
The second, third and fourth flouts of
the boys' end of the orphanage, the south
whig, were burned out, The girls' quar
ters lu the south wing were unharmed.
The nurses' homo and the sister'
home, which are lu the same block, weie
not In danger. The damage to the or
phan house was estimated at $15,00".
Some features In tho administration
of the orphan house wero harshly criti
cised In tho repoit made by William J.
Puberty In the Investigation of the State
Hoard of Charities. Yesterday afternoon
befme the tile olllcets of the Cliuixh
Charity Foundation met to consider fur
ther flic protection. Theie was no trou
ble with the Are encapes yesterday and
the children proved that they knew all
about the lire drill. The president of the
foundation Is Hlshop Frederick Purges.
ASQUITK CABINET UPHELD.
Coalition Government (MUilldnlr
Win Neat In Commons.
London, March 30, Owen Jucobson,
candldnle of the Coalition Government
for thn House of Commons scat for Hyde,
,e fen ted II. P. Davles, an Independent,
,y a voto of 4,089 to 3,215, The victory
Is regarded us a manifestation of confl
denco hi the aovernnic-nt'a management
of the war.
The election was caused by Ihe resig
nation of Francis Nellson, who recently
lectured agalnat the war in the United
Btatea.
NEW ONSLAUGHTS OF
GERMANS REPULSED
Itepeated Attacks North and
West of Verdun Fail and
Losses Are Heavy.
LOSE SOUTH OF SOMME
French Hring Down Seven
(ieiinini Aeroplanes in
Ono Day.
tlitiidl lalilt .'inpn'.'fi 'n Tin. Si
l'Aliis, March 3ft. After twelve day
of comparative quiet In the liouaumont
region the Ocnnan tenewml their In
fantry attack in this sector this ttiorn
Ing. Theie had been heavy artillery
bombardment of the l-'rinch tines here
for some days In prep.uatlon for thn at
tack. The asault was accompanied by
the throwing of burning liquid.
Tho attack was completely repulsed.
.Shortly afterward a second attack was
launched and again the iffoit resulted
In entire failure. Th German losses
In both attacks were high,
Last night the Germans luide tcveral
counter attacks against the French lo
sltlons In .Wocoiut wood. All the at
tacks ueic tcpulsid by the French fire,
curtain with heavy lnhte. 1'IUs of Ger
wan dead were left In fiont of the
Avocourt redoubt. To-day there was
only artillery activity on the western
bank.
tieriimii liulii Kliorlll-il.
X temporaiy success was gained by I afternoon coat an. I trousirs beyond re
the Germans last night In the region of proach. spats to the taMe of the King
Chaulnes. After a violent bombardment - his Majesty an.) placed a gentle hand
thev penetrated a French advanced point I "pon the shoulder of the owner of all
we't of Vermandovlllers. north of I this magnificence.
Chaulnes. but were promptly driven out
In- a counter attack. The French artil
lery bombarded German provision depots
In this region to-day
The French aviation corps has been
ciy active in the p.it twenty-four
hours. All told, seven German aeio
planes were brought down by French
aviators and anti-aircraft guns, while
all the French avlatots returned un
harmed. Five of the German machines
were brought down In the ngion of Ver
dun. In the region of Dontrlan. In
Champagne, a French aviator In ought
down a Fokker machine, the latter fall
ing hi flames. A seventh machine was
brought down by anti-aircraft gun near
Hie. Jlarle-a-Py. alo In the I'hampagne.
A French bombarding squadron dropped
fifteen large shells on l-s Sablons rait
way station at Men yesterday and rive
on tho station at l'aany-sur-Moselle.
Two French machines bombarded Mai-zleres-lc-Mctz
station, seven miles north
of Mela, last night.
Trench Aviators llnsj.
official tommunlqlle Issued
Th
the French War Office to-night follows.
South of th Komme. we homUirded
provision depots at Puzoaiix and
Hnllii, lu the region of Chaulnes.
West of Nouvioii an enemy aero
plane was brought down by our spe
cial guns. The machine fell live
tnelers in front of our trenches. The
passengers were killed. We brought
back to our lines the initi.illl'.ucj
from the aeroplane.
North of the AMie the the of our
Uitterles directed against enemy or
ganizations on the Vauclerc plateau
tauscd a heavy explosion.
In Champagne our special cannon
brought down a Herman nensplnne
which fell In t'ie enemy lines nenr
Saint Marle-a-l'.
lu the Argonne we bomhaiiled
Malaucoiirt wood eneigetlc.illy. At l.a
Fllle Murtc one of our mines dcstro)ed
German trenches oml .mother de
stroyed an enemy post at Hill "v..
West of the Meuse lu the ioure
",0 U' U" 1""1'i'r,n",
turned lu lb- legion of Malancoutt
without Infantry action.
(-minus Full nt lloiliiiiliiniil.
Hast of the Mc-uie l,.e Geiin.iiiS
directed u violent attack this morn
ing on our positions around Fort Don
iiumont, accompanied by the throwing
of burning liquids. The enemy was
completely rcvulscd. A little later a
second attack on the same point he -I
no more success and alio cost the
Germans vcty appi eclabU losses,
In the Woev.-e there was Intermit
tent aitllleiy activity.
lu the Vusgc a sluing enemy recon
naissance which attempted to reach
our trenches to the north of Whsem
Uicii was dispersed by urn lire cut
tain. Avi.tllou; In the cutir.-o of the day
our aviators wero very active. In
Champagne, In the region of Don
trlan, one of our pilots hiought down
Kukker. which fell lu Haines lu the
, enemy lines.
i ' "f cnhm live t.cr-
1 llKIU lie TO llil I ICS W er lllOUgllt lloVV II III
the lininedlate vicinity of the lines.
Peiielrnte French Line,
The afternoon eonmiunlqui was as
follows;
South of the Soiiimc, after a violent
artillery bombai.lmeut as preparation,
the enemy penetrated one of the ad
vanced points of our line at a point
west of Vetiuandovilli-is, north of
Chaulnes, A counter attack on our
part, however, iltove them out nt once.
West of the Meuse the Germans last
night delivered several counter at
tacks against our positions in the wood
of Avocourt. All these assaults, how
ever, wero driven back by our cur
talus of tire and thei firing of our ma
chine guns and Infantry detachments,
which caused heavy losres in the ranks
of the enemy, This was notably the
case before Ihe redoubt of Avoeoutt.
where the- Germans left piles of dead
M.'K
IdKSre
There has been no new
deavor In the legion
l-Iust of tile .Meuse and
district there have been Intermittent
bombardments. Tho Germans lime
thrown Into the Meuse, north of St
Mlhlcl, a great number of floating
mines, which, however, have caiiHcd no
damage.
In Lorraine theie has been activity
on the pint of our nillllery between
Domevre and Ihemeiill, Them has
been no other bapH.-ulng of Importance
to rejMiit from any other point on tho
front
During the day of March 2! one of
our uerlal attacking squadrons threw
down fifteen shells of large calibre on
the Metz-Kablons railway station and
five others on tho railroad station
ut Pagny-Bur-Moselle. Put lug tho
t'osllitui'd on Second I'uye,
LONDON TOWER 'SPY
PLEADS FOR TOMBS
A hie, Proud Fugitive. Appeals
to Detective Flood, Whom He
Snubbed in England.
IS i) HEADING EXECUTION
Flvd After Extortion Charge
Wants to He Safely in
Jail Here.
It whs Jnt six cars ago this coming
summer that Detective Harney Flood,
principal sartorial exhibit of the Folic
Department and confidential agent of
District Attorneys from before Jerome's
time, was strolling along tho etrand.
snlfllng the tblcklfh lindon air and
keeping a keen eye out for a celebrated
International crook.
As Detective Harney sauntered, Idly
twiddling his walking stick, he perceived
In the sidewalk throng ahead a back and
the back of a bead Ineradlcahly familiar.
Harney was teady then and there to
pledge his holies of preferment that he
knew- the owno of that back. Ills mind
went back to a livcty Mid laughable
blackmail prosecution of December, 1905,
and the early part of l!u6 the "Fads
and Fancies" case, when collectors and
agents for that Interesting array of biog
raphies managed to lay bands on home
M40.UU0 by playing on human vanity.
He iUlcken-d his pate, came along
side the stroller he had marked with his
camera eye noted alt of the details ot
his old acquaintance's smart attire
oppcr with not a silk thread ruffled,
I'nlls to It rm em her Detect Ur.
"Well, well "' said Harney mot affa
bly "If It Isn't my old friend Chatles
H. Able' The best little (ollcctor I'mli
find '(inr'rs iver had my old filend
Charley of null mnf Fonclrj, How are
you"
The per-on addtesed turned upon Mr.
i . . . jsj.ii. i
which no recognition dwelt, merely a,,.,
noyance at unwarrantable familial Uy. '
His drawl m..;t crushed any on,
except a . en ral Ol Ice runner. ..
' ou. sir. have the advantag. of me."
' reiurneii. i never saw you in m
'' I do not know you. ,
i'o, jr jou no, jieisi-ieu ii.umj, ., QU j ,iii endeavor to have u u
still afTably "Now think of all the pcr- .(ntj llpS(roJ. tw ship without loss of
sons In the woild you should remember. , jjfe"
No? Don't remember me pinching you rjnrlng the whole night the Ilritlh
the time you tried to extorjj I5"0 fiomrr.w obeved Schiller and headed the
Kdwin Mayne Post of Tuxe'do, the Stock I Vtwscl down the co.ist after the captor
Kxehange broker, and bow you told Mr I im,i ransacked the boat for papers.
. ... .... ..... t..rt..rtani,ai hmn
roi anil otners -mat .i oi. aiann vMtineu money nun guii o-- .
a very trenchant pen'? Don't rememUr i revolvers he found among the I.ng.lsn
that at all- .otllcers and also gathered In 10 in l.ng-
I "I repeat, sir,' leplnd Topper and Uh money and Jl-' m American uu
i Spats, "that you have me at an advan-' rem y. , iho
tage. Vou are tin victim of a delusion.
For the pie-eut you are annoying. If
you continue to delay my walk I -hall
sutnmon a bohbv "
summon a nooDy.
"oh. vtty well," said P.an.ey Flood,
knowing perfectly well ,h.,t orHon.
for which Aide ,.s ...dlc.e,, October
13. P.ih:,. is not an extraditable offence.
eve.n though Able had skipped his ball of
$."..000 put up by Martin Kugel, "havi It
your own wav, deah boy. Give my te--gard
to his Majesty, Ta ta."
AieHl Ciitues After hnllii.
other inattets Intetested Mr. Flood
In the years he tracked Kick and forth
acros.s the Atlantic crook catching In
all the nations of Kurope' and ho for
got all about ('Italics II. Able. Put
a few days ago theie reached him from
the Tower of London a plaintive appeal
for help, an appeal e.gnul most friend- i
llv by Toppi r .unl Si,its, Ch.illes II.
Able. !
It appeared that .Mr Able, sube
I quciii to Flood's lecogultloii of him
In the Strand, had continued to bloom,
' and thrive until the war came along
I and suspicion was illrect.il to many
liersons of Teutonic nomenclature, one
day Scotland Va:d was definitely
nv.r.. uf Ihe .vktiini.. uf Xlr. Alile
that day Mr. Able dlsappeaied Into
lie gioouiy recede oi ti.e lower, v nere
tt'ljll.lll rHf tllll lllt'T PUfJiPV ici tl
l.uli,ir l!urtn.t yi.i.m rt 1 afitill ti.ul A till
on that ti.iy Mr. Alile iociIIimI that fnv
persons Indeed could Identify him as a
tiuo American and no German agent
an American icfugee ftopi Justice, It Is
tine, but American tieveitheliss mnl
.1... ... ...,.-U,... t..t ..hla t.t I. lot. ,1ft.
liim was Detective Flood. Therefore
the letter to Flood,
"Oh, help me out ' wtole Ante. "You.
had me right that day on the Strand.
Hut what could 1 do" All I ask Is
that you let the Home Office here and
Scotland Yard know I'm no German -and
that I'm leally wanted in the old
f. S. A. (God love her) for extoitlon.
I'm willing to come back and stand,
til.il. la-ad me to the Tombs I" ,
Any one may guess how H.irnev
Flood laughed, hut he sat down and
wmte nut a ill i-o-lliim setting out all
of the facts about Allies career as
anew llie.... ...is tint, ui.tt'i- impels
prepared by the Police Department and
the District Attorney's office tue now
on their way to London,
WOULD END DEATH PENALTY.
tint. Met 'nil Wants II M.nnitone.t 1
In XlnsNiiehiisetts.
HosTON, March .In Gov. MiCall sent
a special message lo the Stale Legisla
ture this afternoon rri'omiiicmllug the
passage of .. special act to provide for
Ihe abolition of capital punishment, In
his message Gov Mcl all says .
As statistics do not prove that capital
punishment lessens the number of crimes
. ommltled, It would seem that tho time
has an I veil for doing away with that
nu-thod of punishment"
!G. H. CROCKERJTR., BADLY HURT !ZX
!t an t l7lln of x IH.J"'?' V" T M ""' '
ll'ler III erl.ill ( oiiillllon,
Special Cnlile llttpatrh ' Tin: Si x
I... Nl.oN. .March So. - Dr. W, . Clay.
tou-Gieene, the slligeon, visited lli-oige
II. Crocker, Jr of Fllchburg. .M,is
at Dover to-day ut the lequest of the
American Kinbassy. He found .Mr.
Ciock.-r, who was Injured lu the ex
plosion which il.im.'iged the channel
hleaiuer Sussex last Filday, hi a dan
gerous .'Ollllitll.il
Mr. Crocker has a bad fincluie at
the base of Ihe skull, his lualti is bleed
ing, and be has -a broken linen and a
broken thigh.
George II. Crocker, Sr., father of the
young man. sails for Knglund to-day to
take curu oi bin tvn,
ARREST GADSKI'S HUSBAND
FOR WELL AND CANAL PLOT;
FREED ON BAIL OF $25,000
GERMAN, ALONE, CAPTURES
BRITISH SHIP AND 56 MEN
Hoboken Stowaway With
Captain and Crew of Matoppa Off Sandy Hook
Pilot Boat Upsets His Plans He's in Jail.
I.evvks, Del.. March 3. A tall, blond
haired young German, giving nls name
as Krnest Schiller, la In Jail hero to
night charged with piracy for having
single handed raptured a Hrltl,h ship
with a crew of llfty-slx moil on the high
seas.
The blame for his own capture and the
frustration of his plans Schiller places
on "four puis In Hoboken. who backed
out and left me alone .o go ahead with
out them."
Schiller stowed hlmse-f away on the
British steamship Matoppa In Hoboken
and crawl, d out of the lifeboat at ?
o'clock last night after t v steamship
had denied Sandy Hook light '.il;. With
two revolveis he mudo his way to the
cabin of Capt. Itlchard II ic.ncr and
took charge of the vessel, whlcl vv.i
hound for Vladivostok. Siberia, with
barbed wire and railroad materials.
Schiller kept the llrltlsh "aptaln a
prisoner In hl- cabin while ne pi-oo. edcd
to the wiiebs sta'loii and rounded UP
the two vvireliss operators and smashed
the wlteless outtlt. lb- then marched tho
two operators to the captain's quarters
anil sent for the second engineer, to
whom he Issued Instructions to keep the
vessel on her course during the night.
Threatens Ml n Honrd.
lie also sent out wold to the other
otlkers and the crew not to attempt to
recue the captain under penalty of eel-
in. ,ii imp oil hands on boatd.
I u.i..n..e int.i steeond Knirincer Hirrls to
'iiotlfy the entire crew that their lives
rvn ma I .m'ii I c 31 iiu"1"'
because be bad ''''''' "''.V"'-'1
Phu'f ' " c:irZ V- 0l
-xphe a nny i, ''"nuTikp ale-
pcJs m absolute obedlen.e to my
J'"" chlllr tolj hs eaptlves. "See
thev arc Clirre,i out to the letter ir
va,U(J imr nP!(. if you do as I
I m 'e nio.ni.ig .":', ., . ,e
bridge w Ith the captain and c 1 '" '.
dip headed for t he I -U n k
water lie declared that he had satistli u
i,i,elf that the cirgo was not such bad
1,l,n ' ' 1 . , ' , ,,,,,.i,.,i ,.iu.n tin
, nlra mti.1 a- h
' , .I't about
J ''""'VJ " ... ... ' ,i,i-,. i i:n-jl:in.l bad
,". h,u.
i;i,;
a Plans for tiiilim Ailmre.
For the-e reasons, punier .iioiuiuhi
that he would .pare everylssly on l"ard
and give them a chance to take to the
boa's and land befme the vessel blew
up. No'wdy. however, was to leave the
... ..i i.nfnie siehiller was safely ashoro.
..... .m.-m :if..lv slelllller
u ,! .oinmanded
three membeis of the crew to man It
with two otllcer-.
"1 shall take two of your otllcer. with
me as hostages." said Schiller to dpt.
Ucrgner "If ou attempt to ram my
lKi.it the lives of your otllcers will b
forfeited "
team
ssehlller reekomd without the
pilot boat Philadelphia As soon as
Schiller started off In hw boat from the ,
steam-hip e'apt. Hergner hoisted signal
flags giving the name oi m ves-ei ..no
saying "'"'
I'oinvell of , lie pilot
' , ,RII.l!t.. ,. went straight
- . ... ( I, ...1
which S- hi. er was
1 lOr Wlf tllii-'.i .i
attempting to land. and. clasping the
, KlilS I...K UH"
sltti.it, on. called oui in
He wouiu iow- in.. ...M.-.t-
water. C.mwell iieciate. i ...i .-. ...
would diowu If he tried to Ml d '
beach. I He era was noun. .,.h
i Sclil'.b-
aCCepietl llie oneieu ii."
('apt
Itetgner at the same time s.g-
nailed ashoie what had h.ipp. n.d . no
the Lewes- and Heulopeii coast guaiii.
Immediately started out m in "
boats to captuie the i.c-niian pn.ue
, .
Tin- I'lriite I ii H ii re ii,
Scli. iter wa sitting in the stein of
the boat keeping Ills I'2iullsh boat clew
and hostages under cover with hie e.
volvets. when Ihe coast guards closed
In on ill in.
I'he German quicaiy le - ai -
Izrd that
lisistancn was uselcs". He
bei,i,u.w - Ills tevolvers overboard Ju't as
the .oast glial. Is Jumped on him and.,,,,.,,,, ., ,... ,...r .ii.i,,,,.,. .,rtei- we li.nl
pinned him down. ,pouie.l it out for lum. Th" complete
When he was landed heir, Sch.ller ,,, ,e showed U" of the ship and the
put up a t.-riillc fight, however, m an L.,ugo Inttinrdatul us tn than anything
attempt to escape, but was soon put l,M, ,t sll(1, weight to his story
in -linns and turned over to the J"- j uliout bombs and dynamite he e binned '
tlce of the peace. Napoleon Honaparte , )mV(, hmuggled into the .-.iigo. At 1
Iteglster, who ban four armed guards upollt j , j ip. askul me to g.ve lum ,
watching thn German prisoner lu thuln of honor not to move fiom the I
Jail lo-nlghl. I cabin until the inoining. I
Dr. W. It. Meeslck has examined S.-lul-;
"'If you Slav in nolioilv will be hull.
ler in the cell and Is of the opinion lf, h,(l,' -( .,- jou on deck 1 will
..... t .. ,lfit- ti.er in 1 men. ,. .Ill ... ..... It.K' Lsfnt..!
I mat nt I . Hie.-
' ...i t
l.lliv nuoaiai.t f".
If niv four puis In Hoboken had 11 .1
, backed out. got scared, 1
accomplish--.! my purw.e,
Sfhlller de -
,.i,,,,i "I would have sunk tin- vessel
1 , utters as well, even though I had no
' inbs. Then1 ale seveial othe- ways
f sinking a ship. I know, for I served
three sears on Ihe lliillsh training ship
Cniwny
III Liverpool ami aiso s.uoicu
wanted to go
"I spent three weeks in New oil,. or
lather lu Hoboken, ptepuiing for this.
1 went along the docks buying drinks
for the sall.us and learning fiom them
what ships we e sailing with iotitr,ili mil.
. ...
No I on.l for lxo Pays.
I itlsu g"t together a ciew -if four
men. very able men, but the sailors 1 e.l
to inc. They told me this ship was
going to sail on Thursday of last week,
but she did not sail until tin- pillowing
Wednesday night. There- I lay lu tint
lifeboat on the upper deck, waiting for
1 the ship to sail and cursing tlm sailors
who nail lieu to me. i-or two nays I
did not rat. I had only brought sumo
eaudwlchca with me.
"It sol very cold loo, only during the
Two Revolvers Overcomes
day when the sun was shining did I feel
anywhere near alive. The rainy days
ero terrible, but I stuck It out and If
1 had been under orders from th; higher
command I would bave'carrled out my
purpose regardless of the fact that my
rour pals, hacked out.
"Hut I did It all on my own account.
Vou needn't think my courage failed me.
If 1 had pluck enough to go as far as
I did don't you think I would have had
Pluck enough to go to hell with the
steamship If that had been my orders?
"I hair no bombs on board. That was
only a bluff to scare tho Kngllshmen,
and you must admit that It worked
beautifully. Last night I was captain
and there was no mistake about It. 1
am a textile engineer; that Is. I prefer
to bo known .'is such. Schiller Is my
name by preference. I may have sev
eral other names, but I am giving you
only the fragment of my story; the
foundation of It I will not reveal.
Will .Not tell All.
"1 will not tell everything, and no
power can make me. 1 was much Im
pressed by the poor captain's story
about his wife and children and what
would Imi'l-en to him If he lost his ship.
He claimed that he would never get
another vessel if I m.nlo him run It
right up on the rocks.
"I turned the matter over In my mind
and decided that they might take tire
barbed wire to Siberia. Where 1 came
from In Germany Is nobody's business.
1 did not serve In the Gcrmay navy
nor In the German army.
"I spent my years of service In Kng-
land and eanio to this country one year
ago. I know nobody ; nolimly knows me.
It was all very funny and enjoyable.
You ougi'.it to have seen those Knglish
men Jump for this lone German."
Schiller s a slender, dreamy eyed
fellow with the wavy curly hair of a
musician. lie takes himself seriously
and delights In speaking about his ex
ploit with dramatic emphasis on the
heroism of "a German with an Idea."
dpt. Hergner of the Urltlsh i-twam-ship
took less delight In telling Ills story
m.nlzht at the Hotel Hoilney. where
be was waiting fur the Fnltcd States
M.-irshiil. who will arrive tier" lo-mor
low morning, together with New York
detectives, Jb- still feats Schiller's
bomb stoty and has anchored hi- ship
for the night .n shallow water, so that
If anything explodes on boatd she can
not sink finitely.
i ii pi. Heruner's lor.
i ins fellow may a. t the fool now.
but he is lar from li"li. simple imnoeo
as VOU Villi see tiy
what happened,
Cant. Hergii.'r said
"We Ii ft New York
l,,.., .veiilmr and had passul tne r-anuy
Hook light at s o'clock when 1 was In
my cxinri.
I was Ooiind foi Vladivostok with
railroad mateilal toi thn Husol.in Gov
ernment and had a ciew- of tlfty-slx
men. of whom only fourteen were l.ng
llshnien. the rnmalnder of the crew being
Chinee.- coolies. Suddenly a ve.lce fiom
the dark shouted 'Hands up,' I turned
and fared Schiller w th two large re
volvers pointed at me. 'I have your
I V
ss.-l mined and planted wnu oomos.
Schiller said
You do a l tell you
or vou and oui whole crew and snip
will' go to hell lu bss than two minute.
Get your keys out and throw them to
nie. Ion move l lot-cr. .lusi mum
:Si 'want L
I ....I it -
. , ,, ,,. ,,,.. f,
'.. r'1 1 ''' ,1. " ' C. ' '
II.. ...... I t .1,1,. .1 rh! it lint
the cast! box he demanded field oul do
-"ji'; Uou. Ha" m-...,.1 .-ng.neer eame
, l,l,,ll.. ..,..,.,,.,1 It . .1 111,. Willi ll'F
mers and last, n me
, ,,. . vlrvl, ,,,.
loMllB n, my cabin he went to tile
,, ..,. ilMll eovere.l the two
wuelc-s station and covered tlie two
l...f.,i-.. II...V- rmtl.l ...ti.l .till miiv
. " i..fr -.,. leturned lo my
tl) ,,!,,,, per.itois he' prison and $3 "On tine, M been mid u
Hllhh),, , ,v,el,ss , aiatus. lie 'detail by Major Hiron llorst von .bo
, ,K.-tl the w nelee operators up with me io!t. -he young Gum. in who teeenth-
i .,tnl let the second engineer go out to1 was n ut to this country bv Kiigland
'tell the other otllcers and members of the. Iin inndltloii that In- would tell what Im
'new what had happen. -I and that he 1 knows ..l.oiit plots of destiuctioii tram. .1
was In charge by Germans tu America. It is said to lm
cl.Iy one of seVeial concerning will, Ii Von
Gives I i nine n HrlnL. der Colt, will tesiiry .mil which, ace. .id-
..yyell. what would you do will, uxo ' '"H K'Port. implicate other Ge-rm.i-is
, ,. ,. , ,i,.t...i i.i xon? 1 irnd to
humor the t.-llow and mf.-ie-.l him v
.i,.,,,)
He took the ill ink .ill light, but
SI 11 1 1 Sliooniil itii-i i-"i . ........ .......v
.. ..
;l plow tne snip un
-s,, t ...v,. mv wni-1 of honor I would
would MIX"!,.,., move
' Sfiilllei then started on .. lound of
,,, .i.,,,. ,ihM. l.etsiiiu: eieiAho.lv .it
distance un.I roveied with Ills gun.
i.ins.nkeil every cabin. He found
tw ,.M,H.-rs and one .iiitoniatlc. which
i took, together with all the aiiiiuuni -
tb.n lie could nisi. Vll tile money lie
I found he also stulf.-.l lu his pockets,
iuu-1 all the p-tprts lelatliu to tin' ship
I anil its c.n go
In the Morning he Jomed me again
in tlie cabin and oider.-.l lockfast sent
in. When thn coffee was seivnl hi!
pushed his cup oiei to me and took
mine
"'Safely (list ' Vol take my cup.',
1 he said.
. ..Tlm, ,n,in l ,,,1, so very foolish. e
I is . ute ctnin.'h. Afi.-r lueakl'asl he
nl ili-l'iil tne to go on un- i.n.ige witu
him, nod gave oul. -is wheie he Wtinte.l
ll.s to go lie wanted us to kelp down the
const ii. id clos ugh foi lum to
pl.-k n lauding pl.i .
When he had made up li.s imn.l
. whete to land hn ordered
Ihe . rew
brought up to launch a Ufiboat for
him and picked thiro men 'to man the
boat, Then he plcke-l out hla hostages
and Kct oft for llie beach."
('apt. Hans Tansclier Ac
cused of Directing Con
spiracy in J 91 1.
NAMKI) IX TALK TOLD
JJY VOX DEll G0LTZ
Defendant Has Great Quan
tities of Munitions
Stored Here.
1MGHT HAND MAX OF
CAPT. VOX PAPKX
Penalty, if Convicted. May,
lie Three Years in Cell
and :J,000 Fine.
Cap!. Hans Tauschei. husli.n.il of
Mine. Johnnm O.idskl. the grand opci-A
diva, nnd Atncrlctm agent of tho Krupiis
and several other big munition manu
facturers of Germany and Austria-Hungary,
was arrested at his olllce, "20
llloadnay, at " o'clock yestetday aftn
noon on the charge of having set on foot
a military euterpilse. to blow up thd
Weltand Canal, an ImiHirtanl avenue of
commerce lu Canada running around
Niagara Fall"
The Captain, much crestfallen despite
his natty attire and dignified demeanor,
was arraigned before Hnlted States Coin
mlasloner Houghton and held In i:3,00il
ball for a hearing one week from naxt
Thursday.
dpt. T.iuchcr, who Is accused of hav
ing financed and directed a plot to de
stroy the waterway in September. 1SI4,
Just o.-.e year prior to the time that Paul
Koenlg. the German secret service agent,
planned, accoidlttg to the Government
authorities, a similar undertaking. Is bv
far the most Important person nrieted
thus far In the Federal Investigation into
Germany's alleged secret undei takings
lu this country to hamper the Allies
n i;.erl on Ordnance,
lie has heeu, accoullng to Infonn.it. on
obtained fiom the Federal authorities, a
most Important cog In th Invisible ma
chinery built up by Germans In America
In ennmctinii with the neccs-ltlrs of wai-
fare, A man of wealth, a Heme In cr:in,l
, ois-ra cue es been if hi. wir.. nnd
distinguished In huslnc ss matters be.-aue
of Ills ability nnd the enterpils.s be iep.
lesetited. he has Peen a stanch suiqioiter
of the Teutonic cause, lie Is said to be
Germany's ixpert lure on all m.itteis
pertaining to ordnance, and as such
every matter of this natute was i.fciic.l
to him for his opinion and suggestion
Since the outbreak of the war he was
on,, of dpi. Von P.i-n's right hand
nun until the hitter's recall because i f
Improper activities in militaty in.ittfr
He was m Heiilii at the start of th
Kurnpean war. and as a reserve ariiu
Captain h" v olimteereil his s. rvices. but
according to Ids own statement to Fr-I-
-'r; .
ei.n investigiuots, ne was told to mini
......... .tun in rnni llisiro--
t"is win. n he lias lenised to divulge
''apt. Tatieher looms In still anotloe
....lieu it I iilliui-l
," ' ' .. , ,.-vV.'
rJUr.- ..V!'.' M
lie sold arms ami aiiiniue
ins and shipped
mill America an-1
Far Kast. One shipment which he
planned to make is reported to hava
' ' ' OI..IO- S ripniieil 11.
Fe-.l-
VI i.i Implicate Others,
ihe allegod pint for which Pint.
T in.. I,.... ..-,...1 1 .. t.i..t
. cotivlctioti m'.iv net him litre,. M-!ir ,,
, i iiiimeiion m tins countty.
i'he n.-iy behtnil the legal phrasing .-f
the complaint iiiado against lum by Will-
lam ,M offliy . local head of the bui.ui
iir-.e-sligati.m of the Department ,f
Justice, is tilled with dramatic touches.
'"apt. Tausc'.ier, a- the .Hi.-ctor a.nl
financier of the woik, is said to have ra
eel veil funds from Teutonic purses Li
this muuiy In fa. t the checks b ft
here bv I'.q.i vou Pa pen and the check
"tub book taken fioin the military i-
ta. he at Falmouth lu.- p.iym.nlH bv
Ihe latter to .'apt. Tansclier and to men
.u-'Us.-.l of being in the plot.
iitt. slltlw.tll liolislte.l I'ltttl.t.tt is ..i .1
, ,
I,. 111'.. in i. .. ,1 ... .11, I. If
e -
liiii'h.n-- of .. huge quantitv of dyn.i-
ml'" -'I111 "lllt-r l.lgll exploslv.s- etlollKl
1 to llll six mi. .use to have furnished
n-volvel" for the con.-i.ii.itor. fii. s and
elccuii.tl equipiiienl for silting oil' thn
xpn.s.v -. and .i-,.ns ,,f Hie Well.in-t
dual He i.. i-pirt.-d to l.iie ghen
I instructions i-. no;, who w-nt with tho
live or six ' I. i man re-en ,t. th ee n"
foui men at.- sun to be ,i nested -to lluf
f.ilo and tin lice to Nutga... l'..ll, wh.-u, ,
llu expedilioii was to , nut i i ', ii. -nl,,,
lull lit I. .....lie I'r.iin ship,
The .1 intuit,, m.is inn, has, , fiom
one of lue big iiuimuiilic-n i one. -na m
tills c-iuniiy an-1 arrange-, 'en's w,irt
made foi its th-livi-iv in Sep',"..!.,.) , l;H,
on bo. ml a strunohln i.ich.oe.i . ( ,,.
Statue df l.ll.c.v T!i..ii'i' ,,i,. i-legn
conspo ati'i -. exeiiiliiig Cm 'I'...) i.-hei ,
huriie.1 uie d.rk iimi-i i f.,. , mot .r
I t .i. iii a pin it In !l ii I -i ''i e
to. ob it the . i h-sives on i ,- -inat
aini si-ttl hat ! It, t!i, lb .'. I ,,. j
- urru'ii t'ie -nutcnol to a ' n -. 1 1 i b ,t..si
Thee p.. k.-d the expl ." v . s In ilpl - ,ep
armed t iim-lves with r .o'v.rs i.,,.l
then took train from the Grand Cen-
tral Station on September It
I Iluffalo. '-
P..1I, fur
One of the men "as liaion vun dcr
