-i "WOHW-x
Tire A TUB T -jbt . W
ILf'i 4
MARKETS
Arizona Thursday
fair and colder.
TV
cop
per Tor week ending
March 29, 26.50.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 18, NO. 263.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, MARCH 31, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
b
VILLA IVES IIID FROM
ERREflO AFTER K LL1HG 172
DHLS URGES PROJECTILE
PLANTFORTHEG
Secretary of Navy Urges Gov
ernment Plants for Con
struction of Armor Plate
and Shells.
LAST WITNESS BEFORE
BILL IS DRAFTED
Other Estimates, Formerly
Made, Are Raised Consid
erably. Appropriation for
Air Craft is Large.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. March 30. A final
review of the administration's prepar
edness plans for the navy was Riven
the House Naval Committee today by
Secretary Daniels who will be the
last witness heard before the commit
tee begins arranging its bill.
He urged the establishment of a
government plant to make navy pro
jectiles: raised the estimates for the
proposed research laboratory from
Sl.000.000 to $1,500,000: asked for
about 15,000 additional men instead
of 10,000 and proposed that civilian
educators be placed at the head of
the non-military departments cf the
npval academy to release line officers
lor executive service.
Requesting that all provisions for
air service be stricken out of the end
of the year building porgram, Mr.
Daniels urged an appropriation of
$2,700,000 for aircraft this year. He
explained that there was no way of
determining what expenditure would
be necessary in the future.
Criticism of Secretary Paniels' ad
ministration or the department prev
iously foreshadowed by the course of
certain comments on examining pro
vision witnesses brobably will mat
erialize tomorrow. The secretary jvas
allowed to proceed without interrup
tion today. He will issue his state
ment tomorrow and the question will
te made in the committee. Questions
of new construction of battleships
versus battlecruisers, of the size and
spsed of future submarines and oth
er subjects much debated during the
prolonged hearing were not reported.
Mr. Daniels' statements outside of
those relating to personnel r.nd to al
most wholly with industrial problems
' of the service.
An outline of the department's plan
for building up an adequate reserve
force for the navy was Drowsed by
Secretary , Daniels. It provides for
five classes of reserves. The first to
he known as the fleet reserve, would
be composed of former officers and
enlisted men: the second, or naval re
serve of officers and men of the sea
poing profession for service on fight
ing ships in war; the third, or naval
auxiliary reserve, of ship masters and
seamen, enrolled for war time duty or
the auxiliary fleets; the fourth, or
naval coast defense reserve
of resi-1
dents on or near the coast capable
cf serving aboard mining craft, patrol
vessels, torpedo boats, aircraft and
the like for duty on the coasts when
in their respective districts and the
firth, or volunteer naval reserve of
men who would have no duty in peace
times, but as owners of yachts, pow
erboats or other craft, could render
effective aid in war times.
Secretary Daniels urged the com
mittee to report favorably the armor
plate f?.f tory bill which recently
passed the Senate and which will be
t3ken up next Tuesday. He laid
stress on the necessity, in his opinion,
of providing means for establishing a
fair price for armor or other material
reeded by the navy through equipping
government plants to produce what
ever could bot be obtained at a satic
factory figure by contract.
A projectile plant. Mr. Daniels de
clared, was vitally important to the
navy. With commercial concerns
flooded ith war orders from Europe
lie said, prices were going up and it
h"d been very near impossible to get
what the navy must have. He added
that a government plant would make
i: possible to guard against navy in
ventions getting into the hands of
enemies as was now almost certain
to be the case. The secretary read
a long statement showing the fluctua
tion in the prices of projectiles asked
by bidders.
In spite of ail the firms now en
gaged in manufacturing projectiles,
for foreign governments, it is a fact
that last July the department advert
ized for six inch, three inch common
projectiles and was unable to obtain
satisfactory bids. And on this ac
count only the department undertook
to manufacture a large quentity of
these projectiles at navy yards.
When the 1914 bids for amor pier
ring projectiles were advertised. Mr.
Daniels said, an English firm. Had
fields. Ltd., announced its intention
to bid.
"The companies usually furnishin?
armor piercing projectiles." he added.
(Continued on page 7)
0
DARING GERMAN
HOLDS UPSHIP
ON ATLANTIC
COAST
British Steamer, Matoppo, is
Object of One Lone Teutpn
Officers and Crew "Stuck i
Up." Man is Arrested.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LEWIS, Deleware, March 30. How
one German stowaway held up the cap
tain and 5S members of the crew of
the British steamer Matoppo, compell
ing them at the point of a pistol to
change the course of the vessel and
land him at the Deleware Breakwater,
after he had rifled the chip's safes and
taken their valuables, was told here
tonight by Captain Bergner, master of
the Matoppo.
The stowaway, who said his name
is Ernest Schiller, and that he had
lived in Hoboken, N. J., for the last
eight months, is now locked up in the
jail here awaiting the arrival of the
U. S. District Attorney from. Wilming
ton. DeL The bold-up took place out
side the three mile limit and it is prob
able this government will have noth
ing to do with the matter. Schiller,
they say .will be returned to the Mat
oopo end turned ever to British offi
cio's pi St. Lucin, where the vessel
will ston for coal.
The Matoppo sailed from New York
yesterday for Vladivostok with a car
go consisting chiefly of barbed wire
and farm implements. She passed out
Sandy Hook at six o'clock in the even
ing and two hours later, upon entering
his cabin. Cantain Bergner says he
was confronted by a young man with
a revolver in each hand. Hands up,
and not a sound if you value your life"
was the command that greeted him.
The captain was then bound hand ad
foot and locked in his cabin, promis-
ing'under penalty of death not to raise
an alarm. Then, cautiously making
has way to the mate's cabin, the stow
away, who is about 26 years old, put
the instruments out Of commission
and threw the ship's guns, consisting
of six rifles, overboard. He then re
turned to the captain's cabin, rifled
the safe and destroyed many import
ant nnpers. He had expected, he told
Captain Bergner. to find at least $2000
I in English money aboard the Matoppo,
but in this case his hopes were shnt-
tercd. Later, however, Schiller com
nelled the captain and the first officer
to hand over their pocket books con
(Contmued on Page Two.
Governor Hunt Throws His Hat Into the
Arena. Will Contest for Nomination
Throwing the political sunbonnet , scientiously pursue,
into the ring, or gently picking it outi To the sovereign people of Arizona
of its many fellows, appears to be the ' in wbose service, I, as Governor, have
principal indoor sport this spring. The I exercised such loyalty, ability and in
latest entry into the qualifying round' dust ry as I possess. I now ;mnoi:me
is George W. P. Hunt, governor of Ar-jthat I will offer myself for renomina
izona since the admission of the com-,tion as Democracy's candidate for the
monwenlth as a state. governorship, subject to the primaries
Governor Hunt's announcement, re-1 of the coming fall,
ceived yesterday from the executive In making this decision, I hardly
office, anpesrs herewith in full: jneed disavow any merely personal de-
TO THE PEOPLE OF ARIZONA: sire to be retained in public office.
On iii--"rous occasions during the However profound my appreciation of
paot cpvera' months I have been inter--tbe honors and responsibilities already
rogated as to mv intentions relative to j conferred upon me by the people of
he nert cannirn. To all ncli inquir-1 Arizona, and notwithstanding any hon
i It was difficult, until recently, for;pst pride that I may have taken in
me to gie a direct and decisive an- striving to fulfill my official obligations
wr for the reason that I had not fill-; both faithfully and well. I discern no
Iv nVt'-min'd in my own mind wheth-1 appreciable personal element in the
er public exigencies would render it anproaching campaign. On the ccn
nepeoarv or even advisable for me to'trary, I conceive the coming contest
min snhirit my candidacy to the will for all State offices to be one in which
of the eleptf"f e. FrsnVlv. prl in all ; issues rather than personages will fig
inceritv. I did not court another gub-,Mrp- Condensed to a sentence or two,
erna'oriat contet at the polls, nor diditne rpa' predominant issue consists of
1. either hv word or deed, invite a sit- human righ's, disposition to progress,
iistton which leaves me scant choice' snd majority rule, on the one side,
i hr)jne "v fntnre ronrsp of action, 'fnd leactionaryism, predatory purpose
But even while I still -emafned i)nde-iand minority rule utKin the other. Not
elded. toninr. In fact, that no impera
tive crisis would Place m under ohli
oaHnns tn become a candidate for 'he
povornnrshio in the 1916 primaries,
that certain e'ment of Arizona's body
nnitUr whion Js nlafnlv retrospective,
wMrh is the antithesis of prirresa.
and which has sonsht with the. utmost .
rsotircef-itnass. sn,re the Yrit In-'
ccnHon of tatehool. tn pervert the
functions f tovemman personal ,
acrndimwnt. has 1ef ern to me
only a single course which I can con-
I ;
TROOPS FRlj
Tllin l bt ml P ,:. szxrsz??.
I I II I fti II I II I to investigate the c
I Mil I I IB n I I I I IB I I I ly G. W. Kyte, a
I IKU IIII I IUIIU . Parliament. that
SURROUND
Pancho Villa Wheels North'
After Murdering One Hun- J
dred and Seventy-two of the -
("Isi-rison t .Station. i
U. S. AND CARRANZA
SOLDIERS IN CIRCLE
Illusive "Fox" May be Forced
to a ShowVlown, According
io iiu uriiiaiiuu rveacuing
Funston.
SAN ANTONIO, March 30. Af
ter killing everyone of the one nun
drcd and seventy-two men in the
garrison at - Guerrero, . Francisco
Villa moved northward yesterday
and now is somewhere near the
headwaters of the Santa Maria riv
er, according to unofficial informa
tion secured by General Funston
tonight. At the head of a consid
erable force Villa was reported to
be on the San Geronimo ranch and
troops of both the United States
and Carranza were believed to be
closing in on him.
This information is regarded by
General Funston and his staff as
probably correct. If correct, it ao
pears probable that v?ry soon Vil
la either will have to face his pur
suers in fight or make another
break through the tightening line
of troops.
Whether his assault on the gar
rison at Guerrero was the same
engagement reported' by General
Pershing, was not known, but it
was considered likely since the
action reported by General Persh
ing occurred March 27, somewhere
in that region. General Pershing
has been advised of the report as
to Villa's location and it is known
that the disoosition of his troops
and those of the Mexican govern
ment, is such that Villa cannot
easily escape without a fight. Am
erican troops are converging in
columns from the north and it
was stated that a part of them had
gone so far south that they would
be able to join with the Carranza
forces in preventing his escape
in that direction.
FUNSTON IS CAUTIOUS
SAN ANTONIO. March 30. General
Funston delayed the using of the
Northwestern railroad todav for send
ing supplies to troops in Mexican ex
pedition pending a conference between
(Continued on Page Two.)
that I would needlessly array against
one another any of the so-called social
classes which are component parts of
the body politic. Such an allignment.
evn though a reality, must always be
regarded with deprecation and regret
by thoughtful citizens, but tbe issue.
In this instance, was neither shaped
nor determined hv the pe lpV of Aiiz
pa as a whole. Rither has it acquired
its present formidable proportions
through ill-advised and oft-repeated at
(Contlnued on Page Two.)
BAIT
TO INVESTIGATE PROFITS
OTTAWA, Out., March 30.
Announcement was made in
the House of Commons by the
the govern
ommission
harges ni;ii.
member of
middlemen's
profits amounting to $100,000
were gained through award
ing of contracts by the Cana
dian Shell Company.
i
s
ft a
NVESTJ GATfDN
j Memberi of Ohio Utilities'
r -j
xuiiumasiuii auu unci siaic
commerce commission on,
Ground to Start Probe.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
CLEVELAND. Slnrch 3ft Investiga
tion into the wreck of the New York
Central trains at Amherst, Ohio,
which took a toll of at least 2S lives
the exact number may never be
known and brought Injury to more
than forty others, several of whom
probably will not recover, got under
way today.
With a fierce controversy among
railroad employes as to who was re
sponsible, representatives of the state
of Ohio and of the. federal govern
ment were told by officials of the
New York Central lines that the rail
road officials would not conduct a
i separate formal inquiry on their
own part.
They gave assurance that the best
interest of all concerned would be best
served by one investigation on the
part of the repiesentatives of the
Ohio 1'tilities "Commission and tne
Interstate Commerce Commission. The)
oniciais wouui give evi
,-ery help to
complete and
lit Kv- ttia f 'i r wl -
make the investigation
the railroad would aoide by the IinU-'
:
iron
OH CENTRAL
STARTS
ings of those bodies, whatever they'to the heart of the Guerrero district,
are. Testing ot the signal "block1, knots of armed men gathered in the
uppartuus ai Ainucrsi s nic inaiu
woiK oi ine goveruuieiu r.xprris iu
day. Taking a special train the in
vestigators went to the scene of the
wreck and inspected it thoroughly.
SI. J. Heffern, chief inspector for
the state utilities commission, late
today said, "man-failure" not "ma
chine failure" caused the wreck.
Heffern's statement was made on
the scene of the wreck, one mile west
of Amherst, where he went with other
state, federal and railroad Investigat
ors today.
Engineer Herman Hess of the sec
ond section of flyer number 86 will
have to show why he ran past danger
signals and crashed into the rear end
of Engineer Leonard's first -section.
Heffern announced. Towerman Albert
Ernst will have to explain why he
stopped Leonard's section, thus per
mitting Ilea to run into it.
ISoth Ernst and He?s will be among
a large number of witnesses who will
be called to testify tomorrow morning
when the representatives of the Inter-
slate Commerce Commission and the
State Ctilities Commission open their
investigation.
The investigators returned to Cleve
land from Amherst tonight and it was
said a report fixing ihe blame for the
Amherst disaster will probably be ar
rived at Monday.
Meantime Coroner Carvin. .of Lor
ain County, has deferred his Inquest
upon the bodies of the wreck victims
and that, proceeding will probably
start next Tuesday.
MEXICAN MAYOR KILLED?
MARFA. Texas. .March 30. An ef
fort made tonight by telegraph to
learn the details of the reported as
sasination of Mayor Rodriguez of
Ojinaga. across the border from Pre
sidio, brought a reply from the latter
town that the story of the assassina
tion was untrue. The announcement
of the alleged murder was made earli
er in the day by General Gavira, the
Carranza commander at Juarez, who
said he had received information to
that effect. Edward Roberts, a ranch
man who was shot tix times by four
American-Mexicans on Tuesday, will
recover, il was stated by the doctors
attending him tonight. Roberts, who
is a deputy sheriff, was shot while
trying to arrest a drunken Mexican
who was healing his wife. Three of
his assailants made their escape
across the river. The fourth was ar
rested.
FIND SUBMARINE BASES.
LONDON. March 30. The discov
ery by Entente Allied patrol ships of
i four hostile submarine bases alon the
Greek islands is announced in a wire
less dispatch from Home.
TRAHSPORTATIOH PROBLEM
I
i
i.
Wild Tale Excites
CnlummhuR Ppntjlp
In Fear of Bandit.
, That Villa Was But a Few
Miles South of Borden1 and
Contemplated Another Raid
is Gist of Rumor.
(Bv Review Leased Wire) j
! COLUMPXS. X. si.. March 30. 4 f
! Mayor Hoover announced tonight that!
a Mexican named Juan Fayela lia,d in
'for red him that he believed Yillahad
doubled on his tracks ami tfiasvnow;
I in the vicinity of Santa Maria, sixty j
-live miles south or the uoraer. T.pe
mayor said that Fayela had refused;
to exnlnin the source. f bis belief.
COLl'MRrS. March 30. Two ntor-
h,. .-nih. ca.eH the cr.lln to
fear that Villa is about to make a sec -
or.d raid on the community.
One storv. which grew as it passed
tfrnm ninnth tn mouth was haserl nn a
, , . - ,
I suggestion made by Juan Fayela, a,
Mexican ranch hand employed by Stay-1
or H. C. Hoover. Fayela. who is said
to have predicted the raid upon this
town .March 9, in which seven I'nited
States soldiers and eight civilians
were killed, asserted that he believed
'that the bandit chieftain, with a small
part of his band had doubled on bis
trail and wa now in the vicinity of
Santa Maria in the Guzman district,
about G5 miles south of the border.
j Close questioning by the military and
1,1,,,,. ,,-nn1r,,Ut1e:lut na(j a trajn ready tjme
ieci inai ins ueiifi whs oasra on a wgg needed
newspaper story that villa had turned Jom tne litl,e that couW De ,earn.
to the north. Military authorities... Wl, oor ,ha, thtt Mtl
... A .V. . MJ
aiaiiicu me imuij no a iiu iiaiiui-iiiM-
tion.
On the heels of this suggestion, a
ranchman, whose name was not made
public, reported to Major W. IL Sam-
pie. commandant, that he believed that
the actions of Mexican families living
about two miles west of the town were
suspicious.
He said that the lights in windows
in the house blazed in a way that
might indicate they were signals.
However, 'despite repeated assur-
ances from military authorities that
Mast reports indicated that Villa wan
' . -1 v. r a ...... , .... t ..
flying before American cavalrymen in-
streets Here tonignt ana speculated as
to the possibility of a second raid on
the town.
DENTON'S COTHES FOUND.
PI EBLO. Colo.. March ' 30. The
coat. vest, hose, shoes and cap, de
clared to have been worn by William
B. Denton, iniBstn; from Pueblo since
March 19, when he left presumably
for a walk in the country, were found promptly natled by the police today Put the hundreds of new problems
15 miles east of Pueblo, on tbe bank when they arrested Kduardo Perez, i n ostlv Individual, which have been
of the Arkansas River this morning, the father of the yarn, as a vagrant, solved on sicht by the American flcht
The articles of an oared were identl- Perez had a marvelous storv of his in men and which are not forbidden
lied by friends of Denton later. At
the point where the clothing was
found, tie water in the river is deep.
The police' and detectives will drag
the river at the point where the cloth
ing ai found tomorrow.
Villa Kills, Practically, An Entire
Family, for Non-Political Activity
(By Review Leased Wire.)
FIELD HEADQCAHTERS, Ameri
can Expeditionary Forces, Colonia
Dublin. Chi.. March 2U. (By motor,
truck to Columbus, March 30.) It
has been learned here that Francisco '
Villa nearly lost his life a few days,
. i. . i .... w ..um
ao .... vrr-...u p... .uuui "'" ' , smudire was ovr and the sticks were
distance from this place, where he they were Jerked into the air, hut ; ..,i i, o
tortured and put to deal h live M.-'were not permitted to die. J: ,b '" , ,l h ' warmth eo tlT
cans. One of the vlctiuis leaped upon! when loss of consciousness approa-hed ' ,mh """J
him and was strangling him when the they were lowered to earth with de- " "1" "w ' '"'l" r "
Villista officers beat him senseless mands that they reveal the hidUv," v,?eJ " ,h rmp Wa
with the butts of their guns. j places of the horses said to b-; li ia-: Bn rr for " "ns-
Mucio Polanco was the name of the 'den about the ranch. There were no A snother camp the men had gone
Mexican who almost succeeded in end-: horses so far as investigation dls-,in with hacaage so lisht thai no one
ing Villa's career. The Polancos were j closed. The prisoners also were of-, hid anything larger than a shelter
slain as a warning to other Mexicans ferod their lives if they would tell ten, just larce enough for two nien
against having dealings with Amerl ' where money was hidden or pointjto lie under. Probably none except
cans. Investigation showed that the i valuable documeuts. The offers were nrcticel riilitary eye would have not
Polanco family was involved with no' made merely to torture them as it iced that the commanding officer's
political faction in Mexico, but that (was known the well looted ranch bad i tent, but a makeshift pieced together
they had a record of uniform honesty; no more money. After several mock j one of some discarded tarnaulins and
and realiability in dealing with Amerl- hangings. Villa ordered the five men r part of a smaller tent. This ofTicer
can managers of the Corralitos Ranch. ( taken Into the garden, wrere each Ihad what he asserted was his Morris
They had been born and raised on the 'one was shot five times. Chair, the sides some very roniforta-
raneh. They were known throughout I They were all buried in one g-jv?jDc hsrrels. The Morris Chair was
that section for their integrity. 'after Villa left. Before going Vitla . mainlr box. but it had a back and
When Villa, retreating from Colum-:led one male member of the family rooniT j, an a made of boards, re
bus, arrived at Corralitos Ranch. he'Oregorlo. Jr.. aged 21. whose life had ( inforced bv strns of galvanized iron,
had a list of all the Polancos. six men. been spared, back to the young man's jTh arms "and hack were beveled for
the mother and two daughters. He j mother, and to her he said. "Here.. f,lr,hr strength. The officer said he
seized the man and hunted for the I am going to leave you this one son Daij f,nm tn board
daughters, but the young women had. to support you- You ought to thank the hiker
been hidden so well that he never, me for leaving him to i you - Nextj a8 ake(1. ..Nohony.
found them.
To five of the men. Gregorio and t
bis two sons, and Mucio and his one
son. Villa said:
"I am eoine to kill Tdu because vou
are too Americanized. You are srifl-
go lovers." but instead of killing
them WJtrlKht, ViUa bad tbeuj partly
stripped and then bet with the flats
of heavy swords. Mucio Polanco, des-
No Movement of
YetBeenMade
Into American Troops9 Camps
Report from Two Sources Appears to Confirm Supposition
that Bandit Was Wounded. Officers at El Paso Refuse
to Discuss the Situation. Northwestern R. R. Official De
clares He Has Train Ready for Instant Use.
(By Review Leased Wire)
EL PASO, March 30. General Gabriel Gavira. Carranza commander at
Juarez, said tonight that he had received a message from Madera. Mex
ico, which' stated that Villa had not been allot in the leg. General Gavira
said tbe message was from what be considered a reliable source but that
be wired General Bertani at Madei'o for continuation.
" EL PASO, March 30. The problem
01 forwarding supplies to the Amen
ica" ba86 at Conoliua Dublan by way
! of tne Mexico Northwestern Railroad
; ha8 banged from the perplexing to
t ine mysterious tonignt. i.enera! ue.i,
apparently on receipt of instructions
from Washington similar to those sent
to General Funston, announced that
be could give no information to tbe
press regarding the situation and oth
er officers and officials were tquaily
uncommunicative.
Tbe one definite fact is that no sup
plies have been sent as no trains
have left Juarez in the last two days.
J. O. Crockett, vice president of tne
j Northwestern railroad, said tonight
j Mnilag ou( a ,oaU of BUppulS
mm uf Kiirw ui Iiu ai rMiiriiiriiis iur
- " "Kl- I'" "
of gasoline supplies is the one that
fa rAiininff the militarv authorities the
reate8t anxlety. The motor truck
traing are taxed , their capa(.ity t0
keep an adequate quantity of food and
forage moving forward. The amount
of E.soline reauired bv the trucks
themselves, and or the aeroplanes Is
very large and is constantly growing
in volume. The fluid is. of course.
iiic KCJ iu lilt" uuir nufij niiuoiivin.
, . -tn 1.
As far as the actual pursuit of ilia is
, . .
day, 0f any definite news has given
a new birth to the wild rumors and
. . . - . u i . i
lum riuru, I iir a w ' ' iui mi
fantastic stories which flooded KI
paso up to a week ago. The bandit
chief has been reported in every con-
ceivable place on the map and in a
number that are utterly inconceivable.
If all the stories that are current on
the border are to be b-'lieved he has
fnuoht In thn loct fun- ilavs mnra hat-
ties than Alexander tbe Great anil
has bad 'more hairbreadth"
escapes
l nan -lasuA .lames i
One of the weirdest tales peddled
among the newspaper men here was
adventures which included an account' K'lh'icaiion. are to som extent an
of how Villa himself was desperately illustration of the spirit in which the
wounded in the raid on Columbus and.lsreed miilitary questions hare been
was in hiding on a ranch three miles me.
from the border. He confessed the Today, for examnle. a snowstorm
fabrication when confronted with let- swent over field headquarters. The
'driving snow particles seemed all tho
!
perate at the sight of his son s torture.
orose away irom nis capiors ana gox .
one band locked about Villa's throat
before be was beaten off.
i
Viila then ordered the five stood
up beneath a high archway where he
told them he, would hang them. Ropes
v. .... . 1. . . ! ...... 1. ..
bandit impressed each of the work-
men on the ranch, placing them in
separate rooms. When he had tbem
Hocked up and all terrorized, he went
to each one til luro. warning bill) Iu
these words: "l am coming back snd !
if I don't return, some one els will;
come in ny place. Whoever cuses!
will kill any one bere whom he tlnlsi
working for Americans." 1
PERSISTING
Supplies Has
Through Juarez
ters received by biin at San Antonio
during the very period he claimed to
have been throwing dice with death
in Mexico.
The most reliable information about
Villa places him somewhere iu the
fastenesses of the great contiuental
divide many miles south of Naniiqui
pa, and fleeing in a westerly direc
tion with Parral as his objective.
Lieut. Joseph W. Allison. Jr.. who
died here yesterday from pneumonia
contracted at tbe front, was given a
military funeral preparatory to ship
ping his body to West Point where it
will be buried. The hearse, surrounded
by cavalry with drawn sabres and
preceded by the Eighth Cavalry baud,
wound slowly through the streets
which were lined by a great crowd of
spectators. Joseph W. Allison, of
Dallas. Texas, the father of the offi
cer, followed the cortege in an auto
mobile. It was the second funeral of
a son he has attended in the lat six
months.
FROM THE FRONT
HEADQUARTERS IN FIELD. tl!y
Wireless to Columbus) March 30.
In few campaigns has the American
army been called upon for successive
tests of endurance, pluck and ability
I of Its men to think quick in emergen
cies than in the present chase of ilia.
i , . . . .
1 From the dav when the troops went
r" "' . , x. " , .
lover he border of New Mexico anil
the officers, in the hard march across
the desert, began calculating how
nr.uch water out of their canteens to
pour down the back of a half fainting
man and how much to save for the
thirst of the final hours of the march.
'vfrr in" na occupied the inven-
tiveness of the men who are projeet-
ing this expedition more than 300 miles
mio MeXH O.
The la peer problems, such as the
fhp if Villa and the supply of means
are among the military secrets covered
iy ,he censorsnip.
! more
si ruck
uncomfortable because they
faces which during the previ
ous days had raised scorching sun
burns. One cavalry man in disgust,
exdaimed:
"The farther south we go th colder
jf ee(j)
... manv.hil , ifantrvmsn foun.l
an enntiir oil tin. rectangular in shaoe.
! In which he cut som slits near the
bottom for ventilation. He piled in
some wood, started a fire in the tin.
nails from some boxes of supplies
which were used up here."
"Who cairied a aawT" "SY)flr
wih our outfit. We hnrre-wed one
saw while I' otitflt
was halted in
front of our csntp."
"Wha did the wowd rarvin.:
"The cock's hatchet."
(Continued on Page 2)
