MMH PMBMIBpBBray5
m '
1 . I
O i ' I '
s
I ' . I
jjf Today's Metal Prices rtT tv A. lf ivX'iV-vi ."f W-VV A'W-vX' 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I !
I uotcd; .PJ?ir;-,,f,rm e'troytlc --- - "F L 7 ( J -r--T- -r -r 'X WEATHER-Utah: TonQht and , J
1 near.'JvJi 0; June and ,at" I 1 VX Saturday Fair With Frort Tonight: J I'l
1 CO S27.00$27.50. J J . Warmep Saturday. rj;i
2 ' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. , J 7-. m .
I F0rty8lXth YCar-N- 78 TCFive Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY EVENING, MARCH 31, 1916. Enters a. Second Cla Matt.r at the Po-tof-lce. oa, mo. - (I I
- " I -Hi
4 - . t 111
-1 y , it
(VILLA BANDITS SURPRISED BY COL DODD,
RETREAT TEN MILES, LOSING THIRTY KILLED
! 1 1
VILLA WOUNDED IN FIGHT
WITH SEVENTH AND TENTH CAVALRY
Colonel Dodd Makes Smashing Drive of Fifty-five Miles and
I Goes Into Action Immediately Villa Forces Soon Break
II for Cover, Break Up Into Small Bands and Disapear
' Along Mountain Trails Making Further Pursuit
I Impossible Saddles, Rifles and Other
I Equipment Left Behindc
f
Columbus, N. M., March 31. A message from Lieutenant-Colonel
D. B. Cabell, General Pershing's chief of staff,
said Villa was carried away in a carriage after the battle,
! wounded and with his hip permanently disabled.
El Paso, Texas, March 3 1 . The American expeditionary
force into Mexico in search of Francisco Villa has fought and
won its first battle and first blood lost by American troops has
been spilled at San Geronimo in the Guerrero district, accord
ing to official Mexican reports received here today.
El Paso, Texas, March 3 1 . Mexican Consul Garcia an
nnouced today that he had been informed by General Gavira,
Carranza commander at Juarez, that the latter had received
word that the American troops had been engaged in battle with
Villa's forces.
According to General Gavira's information, which was
supplied in a telegram from Lieutenant-Colonel Refugio Davila
at Casas Grandes, the fight took place on March 30, at San
Geronimo, between the Seventh cavalry and 500 Villistas, the
' latter losing their commander, Eladeo Fernandez, and thirty
men and the Americans suffering several wounded.
Colonel Davila also wired General Gavira, according to
a Consul Garcia, that confirmation had been received that Villa
had been wounded in the leg in the last fight with the Car
ranistas and now is hiding in the north of Guerrero.
a Colonel Davila's telegram to General Gavira said that he
9 had received his information through the chief of staff of the
B American expeditionary force at Tres Alamo camp, under
& instructions from General Pershing.
m Official Statement.
9 The announcement from Consul Gar-
m cla read:
J "Lieutenant-Colonel Refugio Davila
4 has wired from Casas Grandes to Gen
s eral Gavira at Juarez as folows:
" 'Chief of staff of American expedi-
tlon at Thes Alamo camp, Instructed
I by General Pershing, has Informed
S me that the Seventh cavalry on March
'k 30, at San Geronimo, fought a Vllllsta
5 column composed of 500 men under
1 Eliseo Fernandez. Villistas lost Fer
't rtandez and thirty men. American
J t forces had several -wounded.. Confor-
-f ' Jnatlon received that Villa was wound-
i ed at last fight with Constitutionalists
i Guerrero.' "
1 General Funston at San Antonio to
day said he had information that Villa
troops were reported to he on the
r- Ban Geronimo ranch or the "Que-
I taada" ranch, and that the American
II and Carranzista troops were closing
I In on them. This evidently is the San
I Geronimo referred to In Colonel Da-
, "Vila's dispatches.
II American reports received here this
II afternoon stated that General Luis
Herrera was advancing westward
from Chihuahua with 100 soldiers to
t oppose the Villistas.
Ill San Antonio, Texas, March 31.
j Villa's force, e'stlmated at five hun
I dred, was severely defeated at Guer
I rero on March 29 by Colonel Dodd, ac
cording to a report from General Per
shing to General Funston sent from
the San Geronimo ranch.
., The Villa loss was placed at thirty
! ! Wiled and the Americans at four
; ; "wounded. Among the Villa wounded
' "wan an officer named Lopez, who Gcn
1 eral Pershing thought might bo Pablo
Lopez, who led the band that murder
j . ed seventeen Americans at Santa Ysa-
Ibel. General Eliseo Fernandez was
among the Villa dead.
No Americans Seriously Hurt,
None of the American wounded was
seriously Injured. Villa was not pres
ent at the fight
General Pershing said that what
"Was regarded as confirmation of the
report that he was suffering from a
-g broken leg had been received. His
i xact whereabouts had not been learn
X ed.
1 Colonel Dodd led his Seventh and
t Tenth cavalry in a smashing ride
from the .north towards Guerrero
hen. he learned of the presence there
r of the Villa forces, covering the fifty-
J Jle miles In 17 hours. General Per-
Ik -hlng Bald ho arrived there at six
1 )'ciock, going into action immediately,
1 out whether It was six In the morning
-! r in the afternoon the report did not
M falcate.
fl It was a complete surprise to the
" V. L force8r which had entered Into
Hi
HW
H !
-ii-L-
a celebration of its -victory over the
Carranza garrison the day before.
Soon after the action began, the
Mexicans were breaking for cover and
beginning to disappear along the
trulls that lead to the mountains
northeast of the railway. For ten
miles the running fight that began at
Guerrero was continued and abandon
ed only when the division of the re
treating force into small bodies made
pursuit Impossible.
Two Machine Guns Captured.
Colonel Dodd reported that ho had
captured two machine guns nnd a
considerable number of saddles and
rifles. Tho fleeing bandits left be
hind several Carranza soldiers who
said they had been held by Villa for
execution. They were released by the
Americans.
General Pershing reported taht it
was probable that Villa would endeav
or to reassemble his forces somewhere
along tho head waters of the Santa
Maria river.
He Is moving his forces in such
manner as to prevent, if possible, new
concentration of Villistas or to re
engage any force that does not make
a stand.
He regarded as probable the elim
ination from active developments of
Villa for some time on account of his
San Antonio, Texas, March 31.
General Funston today awaited news
that fighting between American
troop? and a Villa force had begun
along the Mexico Northwestern rail
road between Madeira and Chihuahua,
Information, that he styled -unofficial
reached headquarters yesterday that
a considerable force of Villa's men
had concentrated in that region and
that the American cavalry was mov
ing forward In strength.
Carrnnza's troops also were report
ed nreparlng to resist Villa's men
who" were said to bo assuming the
offensive ..The exact position of none
of the three organizations was given
out, but Villa's outpost, farthest from
the American lines, was said to have
been within fifty miles of Chihuahua
yesterday.
The information that reached Gen
eral Funston indicated that Villa's
men and the de facto government
troops already woro in contact
Villa Visits Wrath on Foreigners.
Villa has been concentrating In that
part of Chihuahua within the past few
days and tho forces he has gathered
along the railroad not fnr from Min
aca where he was reported to have
visited his wrath on some of the rest
dents is to be greater than any heihoa
commanded since he began his flight
from the bordor almost a month ago.
Col. Dodd, with the Seventh and
Tenth cavalry has been moving stead
ily south and west since the division
of the forces at Galaena and it was
learned unofficially that the general
movement of the punitive force has
been towards the district where army
officers now are convinced Villa is
preparing to make a stand. The total
strength of the Americans is not so
?reat as that of Villa, but no appre
hension as to the outcome was mani
fest at General Funston's headquart
ers.
The Mexican consulate here receiv
ed a message today from the Mexican
Consul Garcia at El Paso saying that
General Gavira had received a tele
gram from Queretaro which said that
General Cavasos had engaged in a
skirmish with Villa forces at Guerrero.
Gavira, he said, had requested a more
detailed report of the skirmish.
Villa Recruits Forces.
El Paso, Texas, March 31 The
brigand Villa has recruited his forces
to normal numbers in his flight be
fore the pursuing columns of Amer
ican cavalry, it is reported, and if
cornered, will be in a position to give
stout resistance. Advices received
here today -by Mexican officials stat
ed that Villa and his men had sound
ly whipped the Carranza garrison nt
Guerrero, under the command of Gen
eral Cavasos, whose forces were said
to number only fifty soldiers. Villa,
according to the Information obtained
by Mexican Consul Garcia, still oc
cupied Guerrero.
Reports that Villa was headed
northward toward his old headquar
ters at San Andres were current to
day. If the bandit has turned east
or north, the American troops may be
nble to encircle him and cut off a
further retreat to the south while
General Gutierrez operating toward
the west with the Carranza troops
from Chihuahua would be in a posi
tion to confront Villa and force him
to give battle
Strengthening Motor Service.
"While final details of the shipment
of supplies to Casas Grandes are be
ing worked out every effort Is being
made by the army to strengthen the
motor truck service operating south
from Columbus, N. M.
Twenty-seven . additional trucks
passed through here today for Co
lumbus. The total number of troops
now in service on the Columbus-Casas
Grandes trail approximates 200.
Of these 174 have been purchased
sinco the expeditionary movement be
gan. In other words six new supply
companies, each with 27 freight carry
ing trucks, one repair car and one
tank car. have been organized.
Purchases of horses and mules in
crease the columns animals to ap
proximately 7,000 Most of these have
been assigned as remounts for the
bordor pitrol but a large proportion
have been sent to tho front to tako
tho place of disabled animals.
Troops Ready for Quick Dash.
Field Headquarters, American Ex
peditionary Force, Colonia Dublan,
Chihuahua, March 28, by motor to
Columbus, N. M, March 31. Troops,
munitions and supplies Intended for
use either in a quick dash for Villa
or for a long chase, are constantly
moving out of the headquarters' camp
When these movements are on foot,
all other military work gives way.
The officers refuse to talk of the
chances of overtaking Villa, but the
visible evidence is overwhelming that
the expeditionary force is piling up,
somewhere bouth of this base, a for
midable machine for trapping him.
Among the known elements of this
movement is a body of picked men
equipned to travel with all necessary
supplies for an indefinite length of
time.
Field Headquarters American Ex
pedition Column. Colonia Dublan, Chi
huahua, March 27, by motor to Colum
bus, N. M., March 31. A complete
chain of aviation relays from the
American border to the front where
the American forces are close on Vil
la's trail have been established. The
main base Is at field headquarters.
Tho main advantage of the relay is
that it enables the planes to travel
with fairly light loads from one sta
tion to the next It also serves in
part to overcome tho problem of alti
tude which the aviators have faced by
lightening the load of fuel. At pres
ent the machines perform Important
messenger sen-ice, carry malls and
occasionally a few emergency sup
plies. One of them took a small
hand mirror more than 100 miles
for important work. It was carried
along with a bushel basket full of
emergency supplies.
Prepare for Vital Work.
All this preparation by the aero
squadron is for vital work which may
cal tho men out to risk their lives at
any time. The aero squadron already
has done some of tho most important
work accomplished by the field divi
sions. All of tho men feel that they
have an opportunity to participate in
actual chase of Villa. Despite their
numerous adventures to date, the
airmen have not been sent aloft reck
lessly. There Is no good to bo ac
complished by the Iobb of an aviator's
life so long as the sacrifice gains no
real benefit for the expedition.
"But," the flying men say and al
ways with emphasis, "if the big
chance comes we will go up somehow,
no matter what it costs."
Aviators Want Big Machines.
One of the aviators today express
ed the wish for a special type of
mountain flying machine which could
bo driven to an altitude of 15,000
feet, carrying an observer and a mili
tary load.
"With such machines," he said, "the
circumstances might readily arise in
to which we could go into the moun
tains nnd locate Villa in a very few
hours. No aviators can beat our men
In skill, but it would require a special
type of machine for work at extremo
nit Itnrlps "
Numbed by Cold.
One of the aviators returning today
from a very cold flight lost all sense
of feeling in his fingers and hands.
However, he retained enough vitality
In his wrists that, by pressing them
againBt the steering wheel, he could
feel the touch of the wheel, and he
maintained control of the plane. This
aviator said that for two days after
his fingers tingled. The cold and oth
er endurance tests to which the aero
squadron have been put does not
seem to have impaired their vitality
or in the least affected their health.
So far as the aviators know none
of them have been shot at In any
of their flights.
One aviator reported a shot had
been fired at him while he was on a
hike doing topographical work after
landing with his machine some dis
tance away from tho Americans. This
man did not see where the shot came
from and it was not repeated.
Columbus, N. M., March 31. Colo
nel Cabell in his 'message confirmed
tiie report that American troops, un
der Colonel George A. Dodd, had de
qshely defeated 500 Villistas, killing
31, including General Eliseo Fernan
dez. Pablo Lopez, Villa's lieutenant
who was reported to have been kill
ed in the Columbus raid, is statedto
have been seriously wounded.
Colonel Dodd attacked the Villa
camp with 400 members of the Sev
enth and Tenth cavalry at dawn, com
pletely surprising the Mexicans and
forcing them immediately on the de
fensive. A" five-hour running fight
followed and last reports from Colo
nel Dodd were that the American
troopers were close behind the Vil
listas, who were fleeing further into
the mountains.
(Continued on Page 7.)
no
MORE AMERICANS
Pours Out Vials of Wrath on
Men at Minaca, Chihuahua
Report Is Authentic.
Message From Employe of
American Concern Turned
Over to Army Headquarters.
El Paso, Texas, March 31. A man
named Herman Blankenburg and two
other foreigners were murdered yes
terday at Minaca, Chihuahua, by Fran
cisco Villa and his followers, accord
ing to private but authentic sources
here. Details of the killing are lack
ing. Minaca Is situated on the Kansas
City, Mexico & Orient railway, which
joins with tho Mexico Northwestern
at La Junta, and is about ten miles
southeast of Guerrero, where Villa is
reported to have mas'sacred 172 Car
ranzlstas. Today's information sub
stantiates, therefore, previous state
ments of the bandit's whereabouts and
Indicates there I3 truth hi the re
ports that he has turned eastward and
may come in contact with American
cavalry along the Mexican Northwest
ern railroad line.
Although Blankenburg's name Indi
cates that he is of German birth, tho
meagre information obtainable hero is
to the effect that h(Tis an American
It is believed that the other -victims
of Villa's wrath also were Americans,
as the Dandlt's vengeance hnrdly
would -h turned against persons of
any other nationality.
The information regarding the re
ported assassinations was telephoned
from Minaca to Chihuahua last night,
over a private line, by an employe of
an American concern nnd telegraphed
from Chihuahua to El Paso. It has
been turned over to ormv headquart
ers here.
rr
MANY LIVES LOST.
London, March 31, 2:13 p. m- A
Reuter dispatch filed at Oldenzaal.
Holland, on Wednesday, says that
many persons lost their lives in a fire
and powder factory explosion at
Troyadon, near Cologne
GEN. PERSHING
REPORTS EIGHT
Thirty Mexicans Killed, Four
American Privates Wounded,
Guns, Horses and Much
Ammunition Captured.
MADE SURPRISE ATTACK
Colonel Dodd Strikes Villa
Command March 29 Band
it Chief Not With His
Men.
"Washington, March 31. General
Pershing, through General Funston,
reported today that he had found
General Villa with five hundred
troops near Guerrero.
General Pershing's report said thir
ty Mexicans were killed and four
American privates injured but none
seriously.
Two machine guns, many cavalry
horses and much ammunition were
captured by the Americans.
The attack was a surprise on the
Villa forces and culminated In a run
ning fight In which they were driven
for ten miles into the mountains
northeast of the railway where they
separated into small bands.
The fight occurred about 6 p. m.,
March 29, near Guerrero and the re
port came from the San Geronimo
ranch. Villa was not present during
the encounter and it Is reported to
be suffering from a broken leg and
a lame hip.
General Funston's dispatch from
Fort Sam Houston forwarded General
Pershing's dispatch as follows:
"San Geronimo ranch March 30.
Colonel Dodd struck Villa's command
consisting of 500 men at 6 o'clock
March 29, at Guerrero. Villa, who
is suffering from a broken leg and a
lame hip, was not present Number
of Villnis dead known to be thirty,
probably others carried away dead.
Dodd captured two machine guns, a
large number of horses, saddles and
arms. Our casualties four enlisted
men wounded, none seriously. The
attack was a surprise, the Villa
troops being driven in a ten-mile run
ning fight and retreated to the moun
tains northeast of the railroad where
they separated into small bands.
"A large number of Carranzista
prisoners, who were being held for
execution by the Villa troops, were
liberated during the fight.
"In order to reach Guerrero, Colo
nel Dodd marched fifty-five miles in
seventeen hours and carried on the
fight for five hours.
"Eliseo Fernandez, who command
ed Villa troops, was killed in the
fipht. With Villa permanently dis
abled, Lopez wounded and Fernandez
dead, the blow administered is a seri
ous one to Villa's baud."
The war department also had In
formation that the disorganized Villa
troops appeared to be assembling ia
the upper part of the San Maria val
ley and Colonel Dodd was evldentlj
planning immediate pursuit to preBt
the advantage of his initial victor)'.
Secretary Baker sent his congratu
lations to Generals Funston and
Pershing.
"Isn't thnt great," the secretary
said, upon reading tho news of the
small number of American casualties.
He at once advised tho White House
and Secretary Lansing of the first
victory for the American arms in tho
pursuit of Villa.
War department officials stated
late this afternoon that they believed
the American victory was accom
plished despite the fact that the Unit
ed States troops were outnumbered
two to one. Against the 500 Villistas
they believed Colonel Dodd's Imme
diate column consisted of about 250
men, or possibly 300. Colonel Dodd
commanded tho second cavalry brig
ade, but because of re-asslgnments of
troops since General Pershing's expe
dition departed, the war department
had no information as to what troops
participated in the fighting.
SPANISH COMPANY
AND WIFE MISSING
Paris, March 31, 5:04 a. m. The
Spanish embassy states that, although
Enrique Granados, the Spanish coin
poser, and his wife, are reported miss
ing, no positive confirmation of their
death was received. The era'- ssy has
juBt been Informed that a hospital
ship, which picked up some of the in
jured from the Sussex has on board a
man nnd a woman whoso Identity la
unknown and whose condition is Buch
that they are still unable "to speak.
Hopes are entertained at the embassy
that these persons may be the Spanish
composer and his wife.
CARRANZA MEN
IN A REVOLT
Villa Fight at Guerrero Result
of Mutiny Involving 300
Men at Garrison.
BANDIT KILLS 172 MEN
General Funston Satisfied
With Military Situation
Mexican Coast Towns
Remain Quiet.
Washington, March 31. The state
department today got an unofficial
and unconfirmed report that the Villa
fight at Guerrero in which the bandit
chieftain is reported to have killed
172 men of a Carranza garrison, had to
do with a revolt in the garrison in
which some 300 men were involved.
Some of them are reported to have
Joined Villa.
General Scott chief of staff, said
official dispatches from Major-General
Funston Indicated supplies would be
gin to move into Mexico by railroad
today, or as soon as General Gavira,
commanding the de facto government
troops at Juarez, had received instruc
tions from General Carranza. Gen
eral Scott added no obstacle had been
raised by Carranza officials against
the use of the roads and neither was"
there any urgent necessity for Immedi
ate transportation of supplies by rail
roads. Military Situation Satisfactory.
The military situation both along
the border and in the territory where
the American columns are operating
wns described by General Funston as
satisfactory In a personal letter to
General Scott. Published reports that
General Funston was dissatisfied with
the slow moving machinery of the
state and war departments, General
Scott said were clearly disproved by
General Funston's letter.
Stite department agents at El Paso
were reported in conference with Gen
eral Gavira and Consul Garcia to
agree upon beginning the railway
movement.
Coast Towns Quiet
Navy department dispatches today
reported Tamplco, Vera Cruz and
Guaymas quiet Tho gunboat Wheel
ing, patroling the southern coast, has
left El Carmen, Campeche, for Puer
to Mexico.
State department officials said they
had unofficial and unconfirmed Infor
mation that supplies had been sent
to Brigadier General Pershing over
the Mexico Northwestern railway but
the source of tho Information was not
disclosed.
mam. charges
iked mr
WHS
Due to the shortage of care caused
by congested freight conditions in tho
east, the railroads of the Intermoun
taJn country have docided to raise
their demurrage rates The new rates,
accordingg to an" announcement made
today by General Agent Frank Fouts,
of the Denver & Rio Grande, will be
effective beginning April 3:
Tho present allowance of 48 hours
free storage will continue to be made,
but Instead of a ?1 per day demurrage
charge for an ihdeflnito period there
after, the shippers will be charged $1
per day for tho first three days fol
lowing the first 48 hours and $2 per
day thereafter.
-qo
COLHD 1M1
IS FINED $25
Minnie French, anegress, and John
Barber were arrested last night by
Chief of Police T. E. Browning and
Detective Grant Syphers, on charges
of vagrancy. They wore arraigned
this morning In the police court on tho
charge and tho woman pleaded guilty.
She was sentenced to pay a fine of
525 or to servo 25 days in jail. Barber
pleaded not guilty, and hlB hearing
was set for tomorrow morning, ball,
being set at $10.
T. Cowllshaw pleaded guilty to a
charge of drunkenness and was fined
$5. Ho wns taken into custody yes
terday on Wall avenue, between
Twenty-second and Twenty-third
streets, by Detective Syphers.
GERMANS MAI
FIERCE AHACK j
Great Drive on Three Sides of III
French Village of Madam- jj
court a Success. till
1 lil
FIGHT ENTIRE NIGHT I I
! j I
i French Hold Outskirts atnd Re- J
pulse Enemy's Assault on j
Position in Avocourt ill !
Wood. I
I II!
- .ll
Pans, March 31, 12:15 p. m. Tne i
Germans delivered a fierce night at- ill1
tack on three sides of the village of lil; '
Malancourt, says the French official III,
statement issued this morning and II jj
the French retired from the village I
proper, which was in ruinB, but con- I j
tlnue to hold its outskirts. I
Fierce infantry fighting lasted for I
the entire night before tho French J I
withdrew from the untenable position 1 1
in the village of Malancourt, the of- j!
ficial statement adds. lj
The Germans again tried to carry l
by assault the position -which the lljjj
French had won back in the Avocqurt jjj .
wood, but they were repulsed. East j j
of the Meuse the night was calm. I j
Tho tex( of the communication fol- 'JJ
lows: Jj!
"In the Argonne we have repulsed; jljj '
two attacks with hand grenados di- III J I
rected against our positions north o JJ
Avocourt. Jj
"West of the Meuse the bombard- JJJ)
ment of Malancourt has gone on with JJJ'
redoubled violence. Last night the Jjj!
Germans delivered a series of attacks JJ
In massed formation. They advanced IJJ
from three sides at a time upon the JJJi
village which formed the advanced. J' j
salient of our line and which sheltered Jjjj
one of our battalions. After furious JJ
fighting all night long, which entailed Jt
considerable sacrifices on the part of J J .
the enemy, our troops evacuated the
ruined village but we still hold its out- JJJ1 i
skirts. Ji
"East of the Meuse the night passed j
quietly.
"In the Woevro, tho Germans en- JJ'
deavored on three separate pccaslons JJ
to capture from us the works east of ll It
Haudremont, but all advances were re- uj J1 1
pulsed. ijjjl I
"There has been no occurrence of J 1(1
Impoitanco on the remainder of the l!
front" ,
Berlin. March 31, via London, 3:30 jilji i
p. m. Capture of the village of Mai-
ancourt In tho Verdun region we3t II
of the Meuse was announced by the , jj
war office today. Tho Germans took U1 111 j
328 prisoners. j
The text of today's official state- JJI
ment says: jj
"Western theater: Artillery activ- I J
Ity on both sides in many frontal war i J
zones Increased in activity during the j '
clear portions of the day. Jjj
"West of the Meuse the village of iJJ ,
Malancourt and French defensive es- .JJ.,
tabllshments on both sides of tho vil- J .
lage were taken by storm. Six offl- J
cers and 322 unwounded men were ijjj '.
made prisoner. JJi '
"On the east bank of tho Meuse the t '
situation is unchanged. Encounters I Ml
at close range developed at French 'lit j r
trenches south of Fort Douaumont (JJ
"In an aerial fight in the region, of jl Jj
Arras and Bapaume tho British lost ijfc':
three biplanes. Two of their occu- jjj'
pants were dead. Lieutenant Immell- ijjjl
mann thus accounted for his thirteenth J
fnomy aeroplane. 'Jr
"Eastern theater: The Russians j
vesterday limited their activity to jfji
subjecting those parts of our fronts ,JJ
which they previously attacked to ijjj,
heavy artillery bombardments." Ill
German pressure on the Malan- Jjj
couri-jjemincouri sanen. norinwebt oi hi
Verdun has proved too much for tho IJJr
French on tho westerly end of the JJJ
position and they have been forced Jj.
out of Malancourt village. Jjj
After an all night struggle the I JJi
French evneuated the village which jlfj!
had been laid In ruins by tho bom.- ' l
bardment and the storm of battle rag- j
Ing In Its streetB after the infantry JJ
entered it
General Petnln's troops still hold J J?
tho outskirts, Paris asserts. jjj
NortheaBt of Verdun the Germans J jl
twice attacked at Douaumont with j
liquid fire but, according to the MJ
French war office, were both times HI
beaten off. Jjf.
Last night thoy developed renewed jj
activity against tho French right I JJ
flank, nine miles southeast of Verdun. j!J
This was remilspd P"r's declares. j Jjj
In a notable aerial battle near Ar- 4 j
ras between Gorman and British avia- jjj
tors three British biplanes were jji
brought down, Berlin announces. , J i
Attacks .by the Russians in the east- J j
ern waiv zone have ceased, but the J j
German lines along tho fronts of the j
railroads previously attacked, are be- ' '
ing subjected to violent bombardment, '
