THE BEMlKTGr GRAPHIC
Darning Air
100 per ot. Pur
Breathing Test
A LIVE PAPER IN A LIVE TOWN
VOLUME XIV, NUMBER XXXI,
DEMINQ, LUNA COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1916.
FIVE CENTS THE. COPY
t
Owning Water 4
MJ9 Pom
Ooverum't Teat
21 OS OF EE
FUTS HP III I,
I,
G
minn
Vietorit, Florida, Cook's Peak, and
Trot Hermanat Campi Shipping
Lots of High Grade Zinc.
SMALL CAPITAL IS HAMPERING
Mining Dealt Recently Made Indi
cate! That Luna County Pros
pecti for Mining are Good.
The high price of spelter has
caused n Htimll iKMim in nine minim,
in l.unii comity. The. industry if
irifiitly hiimMri'il liy lurk of xiiffi
cient cnpitiil, but the trnnxfcr of aev
erol proiertieK recently indicate
tlmt the soaring price of luetnlx wiU
n-incdy Huh situation. Most notable
among the milling deals rrrrutly con
summated ix the sule of tliri'f good
rnluriii)r pnerticx in the Yirtorio
moiiutnixx near Oagc to Joseph S.
ijiiiiloy of Kl Piiho, Texas. The
(junlcy iiUen-slx control large mining
holdings in the HiitnH Kiilulia dixtriel
ill Mexico. Till' 1 iciorin group 01
claims wiii the irinrinil one pur-i-lmscd.
Thin group ha been ii pay
ing iriMliircr for year. J. T. Ihir
ycn of New York City win the sel
ler. With thin group went the Knink
Wymiin mill John Corliitt claim and
tht W. E. Bradley uml W. I.. Ncliu.
rliiinm. Th two lust owner mention
nn residents of F.I Piiho. The
icouxiderntinii wiih not made public,
though it ix liolieved thut it involved
ii considerable hiiiii of nionry. The
new owners will ereet ii mill, it ix
understood, ll well ii x sink n deep
shaft to rilll nililitionill levels to ile
velop the roMrty. The wnter in the
lower level llllx lllwnyx Im-I'II trouble
Home nnil heiivy iuiiiii)r miiehiliery
ix lo he iiiHlulleil to in ere nine it.
The John Wiltfied interentx of
Reno, Neviiilu, Imve iic(iiire(l through
h drill reeeutly ronxiimniiitvd, the
tungsten rliiiuw loented liy Dr. M. M.
Crocker of Lordsbitrg. It ix under
stood that this denl involved $20,
000. The tungsten prospect in the
Victoria diHtriet hnx heel isider-
rd HomcthinK of n joke in loenl mill
ing eircleH mid the denl comex nx n
xnrpriHe.
There nre three other dixtrietx in
Luiir county tlmt are now xhipping
ore. The tine on carries vnliicx ii. j
silver, copiH-r, mid lend. The Chir.
mid Mnlioiiey inperty in the Tre,
llerniminx ix now employing iiliom !
xeventy-five men. A few duyx ngoj
very pen ore wux xirucK mm uie
development work ix being pushed
vigoronxly. Ahout the xmiie numb
er of men lire working on the Wade
nnd Swope mid the Big Four Kploni
tou Company minex. The Intter wax
leased by Al Kchultx.
The Mn honey zinc mine in the
Florida nioiiiitninx ix working with
fifty men. There are a number of
partly developed properties that nre
probably just ax good an the Ma
honey mine but their owners hick
sufficient capital to develop proper
ly. The ore from the Mnhoney mine
hnx to be scut on the hacks of bur
ros down from the head of a canyon
on the crest of the mountains.
There nre a number of tine mines
in the Cook's Peak district from
which shipments are being made reg.
ulurly. Harry Edwards, who leased
the Poe property, nnd John flrover.
nn the east side arc milking stendv
in-ogrex and regular shipments.
Chrix Raithel ix working one of bis!
gronM of claim on the west side
and another group ix leased to mid 1
being worked by dipt. II. A. Walker.!
Roth are good producers. j
The fine ore in the mountains of:
l.unii county in the mines being,
worked run on the average f rom 1
thirty to forty per cent, nnd the mine1
owner have no difficulty in aincll j
ing. I
Army Trucks Pass Through
Sunday and Monday the motor;
I nicks unloaded at El Paso for use
nf tbe expeditionary force in Mex-1
ico have passed through Dentin -over
the Borderland and the Dcm-
ing-Colnmbut road. From El Paso
here the drivers seemed to have very j
little difficulty with their machines,
though aome arrived behind the con
voy on account of losing their way.
BOOSTER ATTRACTION DUE
ON APRIL 28, AT PRINCESS
The big liooater attraction of the
Chamber of Commerce will be given
on Wednesday, April 211, nt the Prin
ces Theater. One of the biggest
II I in prodiietioiix in the world, Cnhir
ill, has been seen ml for this enter
tiiinmeiil. This film ix not onlv won-
derfiilly sHetHculiir but ix one ot
the grentext ediiciitiolinl (Hum thai
hnx ever been produced.
The II I in itself is nearly two mid i
iiuarler miles in length mid take u lit
lie more limn three hours to be run
through the machine. Arrangements
ati being made to give the schom
children of Dcming and of the conn
Iv a free xhow on the iifteriioon of
April 211.
Frank Wyiimn wax here from I 'I
iiox Alius 'ii rl v in the week to close
the deal for the mining projicrticx
ill the Vietorio iiioiinlaiiis recently
sold to Nevada intcrestx.
Mr. and .Mr. A. W. Hanson were
in ChIuiiiIhis enrlv this week. Mr.
Ilniisoii wits formerly a lieiiteiiniit
I he rciriilnr nriiiv and hits mini v
friends among the officer now nt
the t'oluiuliii nriiiv base.
T. F. I .nisi mi of Sniitii Itita is in I lu
ll v today.
SENATOR FAIL DOES NOT LIKE
ADGISTRATOIN MEXICAN POLICY
S lent Senator From New Mexico in
Dcminy Wednesday Evening Telis
Citizens That United States Ought
to Place Burr Under Carranza.
Senator Allien Ii. Fall, M. K. F.ver
hiirt, and John lliiteliiu uiotored in
liMin Kl Pmo Wednesday evening cn
loiile to Cohiuiliil. where SciiiiIo
Full will make n l'irt -hiiiid survey of
(he condition- nloog the border, Tin
dixiinuiiiHbed visitor wax met by a
number oi' Dcming citizen at which
inei linn an exchange of views on the
Mexican situation wn indulged. Tin
senator ns iissiind that Deiuin.
citizens felt perfectly safe, but made
it plain that they desired that thi
I xTiiiii iii'iil mi ft I v of the hordcrsidc
was iinieh to be desired.
To newspaper men Senator Full
discoursed in characteristic vein on
. i at he ha alwnvx miiiiilaiiicd is
the bungling policy of the ndminis
Iratioii in regard to Mexican affairs.
Ile is of I lie opinion that Washington
is failing to recogiiixe that this is
I lie pychologicnl moment for the
I'li'led Stales to commence it task
of restoring order below the border.
The senator strongly condemned
the failure to secure the Northwest
ern rn i In md out of F.I I'a so for Hi.
forwarding of supplies to the Amer
ican expeditionary force in Mexico.
lie i of the opinion that the co
operation of the de facto forces is
a great farce. Only by a lucky com
bination of circumstance will Yill.i
he captured, he thinks.
NEW BOOKS IN CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE: FOR FARMER
The Chamber of Commerce hnx
jut received three very interesting
booklet from the I'niled Stales De
partment of Agriculture. They are
of particular interest to the fuBiuerx
of I he Minilnes Valley section as they
deal upon irrigal'oii. Any one inter
ested limy cull at the Chamber of
Commerce nnd rend them. The titles
of the books arc ' Irrigation in Field
and (Inrdeti," and "Mow to Itnilu
Small Irrigation D'tches," nnd "Prac
tical Information for llcginncr in
Irrigation."
DIVERSIFIED FARMING BOOK.
LETS FOR LOCAL FARMERS
The Chamber of Commerce has re- j known. It has attracted to it eoun-1 Adjutant Oeiierul Harry T. Herring j lien. Fnnstoii and his ataff as prob
ccived ii Hiinplv of hooks dealing ! eil those men whose genius it has and Cant. A. W. Bnck are at Col-ably hein correct. If correct, it nn
iimiu diversified farming in the j
Sonthwc!. and Silns mid their t'ses. ,
I loth I ks an- written by II. M. ;
Itniner. Agricultural Heinonslrotor
for the Santa Fe Railway. Anybody 1
calling or writing may n'ccive a cop,
of each of these books. '
It. K. Pneh and sister of Clifton,
Arizona, were -icsts at the New
Hold Dines thi week.
It. K. Colcmiin, a Siinta Fe tele-
graph oM-rntor, retnnied to his home
in Yuma, Aril., yesterday.
ft. c. ay uksi
iinL Ci...? I
Yesterday Afternoon First Ely Club
was Organized at Meeting of
the Local Republican Party.
WOULD BEAT THE "OLD GUARD'
In Fight for Nomination for Govern
orship of New Mexico, Mr. Ely
Will go Into Every County.
Itiilph C. Klv launched his ciiin-
paign for the Humiliation for govern
or of New Mexico on the Republican
ticket Vfslcrdiiy afternoon when a
representative body of local repub
lieaiiH mel with him lo arrange fot
carrying the campaign into every
count v in the slate. An executive
oiuiiiiiiec wax formed that will have
nominal charge of the enterprise and
which will organize the first F.ly club
in the slnle. Mr. Kly will visit othe.
important cities and town to organ
ise other club lo lie affiliated with
I lie original one here.
The candidacy of Mr. F.ly is taken
.eiy seriously ill l.unii county be-
.'iiu-c nf the prevalent belief in I he
'liiuue" of the man for the joo
i.il I'liithei' heeuilse of the honor III
olvcil in liic opportunity of a Dent-
iug niaii to fill the gubernatorial of-
lice. In an address here, Mr.
!'ly -luted frankly that he had the
iposiliou of the Hiwerful so-called
midline candidate. lie admitted
'lint Seciiiidino Humeri) of Suit Mi
-ncl hud the most delegate to the
'invention nt hi command. He also
lated I tin I II. O. Ilnrsnin held slight
ly more than lie could muster. Rut
lie is oitomilii hccmiMC he believe
tlmt he can count on a staunch snp
i..rl in the conveiilioii and the hni-
imee oi power 111 a tnrcc-coruerea
liclil. The llui'siiiii mid Homero for-
i-i. would rather enmpromixe on him,
lie thinks than allow themselves to
'o down to defeat.
Mr. Fly' platform will contain three
prncipnl planks. lie stands for a
new gi iicrnl election law; be wants n
new tax law tlmt will more equally
listrihulc the burdens of govern
ment ; and he urges the need of a
. liiniiry law that ix not si ate-wide in
a'ipl:eatioii. Last night Mr. Fly re
leased a statement to the daily pa
pers of the stale seeling forth fully
his stand on these issues and in
ilnell lie iletails III men or goon
ovcrnmcnt in general. The state-;
melt! toiloWS; !
March 27, lOln. 1
To the Rcpiiblicnn Voter of New
Mexico:
llel:cving devoutly in the institu-'
lion of our connlry mid in the ad-
iiiinistrative principles of government
advocated by the Republican party, I
olTcr myself ns a i nndidate for nomi-
nal;on at its hnmls for the office of
tiovcrnor of New Mexico.
I do thi, not o much because of
the prompting of pernnnl nmhitioi.
a Ihrouah a eiwe of iM-rsonal n-
potisihilii v. Thronah the long period
of our territorial life, all parties have!
nion- or lex drawn away from the
people of our state and have yielded
themselves unduly to the influencei
of iiolitical lender the xo-called
iniiehine. With practically uo law
n'gulating primary elect mm, with the
crudest or laws governing the gencr- iconic necessary, i" onler to avoid ; w.rtl yextenlay and 'now is some
al elcetionx and with the dominance discrimination as to certain town where 'near the headwaters of thi
ol' men whose influence date back to nd citiex fnm a commercial stand- Sm,, Mali,, river. aecord;ng to nn
'he territorial days of irreswnxihility H"' to have a uniform iidjutmen ..rt'tcitil information secured hy Oen
lo the ivcople. It eemx to me vitally , f ""'I' n,", Hpplying locally mi plln,tllll nt njtr,t t the head of
important that something should be
I done to awaken the interest nf the
neonle lhcinelve in the conduct of
our government. ;
The Republican party is the great-
est nrgmi;zution for constructive leg-;
islation tlmt this eonntry has ever
been lo build rather than criticise. It
lm given New Mexico a great deal of
it bet legislation: but there remains
to lie done much that is esent;al in
the development of the resources of
our stale, in the realization of the in
dividual possibilities of onr people,
in the advancement of our community
life, in development of onr inntitn-
tionx for the general good, and in at-
I met ing within our bounds, others to
'oin with n 'n thi great work. I be-
i.e this will only be done through in.
fusion nf new blond into the council
nf our party and of our state.
About three months ago, I wrote a
I.. i..i.. i:.:
-ai nHiM'iuiex, axKiiiH- iiicir huvivo in i
ihix matter. More than ninety perl
cent of I he replies received advised;
the announcement of my candidacy I
and Hcnrex of letters have Im-cii xincc
received, reMinxive to these itiiiir -
iex, from political friends who had not
been addressed, urging the same step.
This nomination can only lie accom
plished if those who love New Mexico
mid believe in its future Hiihili(ie
mid in the imsxihilitics of it icoplc.
(urn out to the mucuses mid conveii
tionx nod participate actively mid ef
fectively in tin- work of the primaries
of our party. If through their netiv
ity, I should he liom'iiiitcd and elected,
I pledge myself to earnestly and hnn
estly pursue in New Mexico, the best
thing which have been achieved in
the mot prosNrous anil enlightened
stale of our country. I shall not at
tempt untried things, nor advise ven
turing into Ileitis of political experi
ment ; hut I shall seek to promote, n
every legitimate and honorable menus
the cstiiblihmeiit in New Mexico of
those condition which in other stale
have been proven good, sound and
workablbe. This ix not reform, it
i just common sense, protltiug by
the exiericnce mid wisdom of other.
I solicit the active nnd courageous
support of all those win. love New
(Continued on page 8. )
state mm CQSSION
Holds That Present Class Freight
Rates are not Uniform Within
Njw Mexico and Need Lining up
With Recent lnter-8tate Decision.
Notice has been received by the
hipiier of Dcming of a meeting cm
led at Santa Ke for April 21 for the
puqMie of reaching a decision on
the proMixal to establish a mileage
'.scale for class rales applicnble lo in
tra -xtale freight traffic. Informu.
hearing have been held here mid at
other important shipping points in
the Ktnte for the purpose of develop
ing idea and gathering such in for-
inatioii as is npccssnrv for the state
mrpot'iition commission to have in
order to issue an order. Delcuiite
will be iipMiinted by the local chamb
er of commerce to attend thi meet
ing which ix considered to he very
important to the cnmiiuiiiily inter
ests. The purpose i to e-tablisli from i
land lo jMiints within the slate n'the traffic that has passed over it
,,;e.,-, ,ii.,. ... i;..m
,.is nitef, .,,.,. i,., ,1.. uVxtern
rinuxifieation. ns lllinn 4v,iinin,ini, '
f the tariffs now in effect admitted
by enrrcrx, the present chis rale,
are in no wie iinifonn a now ap-
plied in the various part of the
stntc-, it npeiiriiig from such exnmi-Y,,.
nation of the tnrff from many of
the more important townx and cittcv
thror hn been in the iul so-called
"johlicrs' rates" which, it npix-nrs.
hud no iinifrom bui, while fnun the
varoiix other points and stations in
tne stale local ilwtniice scale apply,
which m many instance an- not inn-
form, distance considered.
rurther, on a unit ol certain mi
jiixtnient that have lieen mint i
"' by order of the inter-
stale commence cnminison upon
traffic to New Mexico fnni rtain
defined territories, such us Kansas J(1
' . ioiiis, mm i nicngo. n no-1
ontuoimil shipment Mm ucli towns
nl cit es, and also adjust on a r'as-
onahle basis rate applicable to
shipments originating at smaller and
important townx and cities,
Adj. Gen .Herring on Border
nmbnn and elesewhere along the bor-! iand pndiahle that very soon Vil-
der investigating conditions with a I hi will either have to face his pur.
new to determinng the amount ofjnrer and fight or make anothei
protection necessary in the southern ' bn-nk through the tightening lines of
part of the state. Gen. Herring is troops.
in favor of having the state troops Wheteher his assault on the gar-
placed along the border for patrol r'on at flueiTero was the same en
duty, relieving the federal troops for segemcnt reirted by Oen. Pershing
uxe in the pursuit of Villa. The cry was not known.
for protection is more or less born oi
imaginary dangers, hut the Hiiexpccl- It i reported thnt C. W. Copeland,'
ed has happened with dixaxlmiix re j formerly of La Crnces. has bought
suits and the stntc authorities nrei the Jitney Cnfe. Mr. and Mrs. Cope-
bent on makng the citizens of thi bind hnve been at the Dinea ITotel this
section safe from alarm. ' week.
nnHTrn Til" MUtM IP
Kl ini I II (fill l
10 HAVE GOOD BRIDGE
! Contract for Steel Structure to Cost!'" n'"rk'"g hard, laying out the init-
About $1,500 was let to El Paso
Bridge Building Company.
ARE TO BE TWO OTHER BRIDGES
it is working in tlr belief that every
effort ix being made to get together
Grading on North Road Carried to 'a dismay of products and resources;
Within a Short Distance of Col- , """ 'H' H, v,'rv lvertise-
I " ent ot hut I. una county linn to of-
son Crossing Over Mimbres. : i,.r.
An ettui't k Ix-ipg made to make
The contract for a xteel bridge over' i he premium li-t unicli Inrirer than
the Porter Tank draw on the north
road ha been Id lo un Kl Paso tirm
of bridge builder. The structure i
to co about ifliOO. This crushing
is near the l.indniier ranch. SM'ei-
fieation for two more bridge on .
thi road have been approved one
over the Mimlirex near the Jiu-ohsen
ranch and another over the Mimhre
at the Colson crossing. The former
is to lie of steel and the latter of
wood on wi md piles. With the eiil
verts and small bridges already hi
this will give the road to Silver City
w'thin l.una county safety from the
flood water lit all season of the
The grading of the north road ha-
approached to within a very short
distance of the Colson crossing over!
the Mimbres river, twentv-five miles
from Dcming. The road will be
worked to the Grunt county line.
where the road board of that county
is exieclcd to take up and com- j
plcte the work into Silver City. Sign I
hoards will he placed all along t In
road. The route to Columbus has not
I n definitely settled notwithstund-
iu
: notice to that effect two weeks, .. .. , ..... ,
lot President Wilson serious nlti-
ago. 1 Here is a distinct sentiment '
.. . .. .,
tor carrying the road over the rail
. i .i i.i n .
rmid grade through the flat country
1.. 41... LI..IJ.. I T II. .
oi'iiii'ii ini' r loriini nun ire iicr-i
mantis wntersheadx. It is clear,
however that the highway will not lie
nutted except for the benefit of the
through travel. Those off thi trunk
line miit grndp to it with the help of
I lie road hoard. Several member-
ol the i d lioiird n-scrl tlmt there
is a lout to the east that avoid t
ureal deal of the flood district wiheh
can he built nr.d mn'iitaincd mncn
cheaper than the old railroad grade.
Al the present time there i n
"patch" crew at work on the xont
road repairing the dnmngc done by
: . ..,,.. k.... l. i..
li.hed at Columbus.
NATIONAL GUARD OFFICERS
HERE TO INSPECT BORDER
Di-mimr. V M.. March Ml Lieut
W. C. Porlcrfleld of Silver City,
Mnjor Arthur Hail. dipt. Carl Iliutni..
1 .j,.,tt y, ri. MeSherry nnd Col. S.
Mi'liL,.,. nil nf Silver Citv. ner.-
j,, ivmiii" this ninmiii" with Pri-
i;,.ii II T llerrine nnd Cant V W
!io..k pn'pnriug to motor to Colum-
lm for an inspection of the border
.iiimiioii. All the of fleer named
an- of the Firt Infantry. N. M. N. 0.
With the party were J. P. Holland ot
Mogollou, and Dr. Mac Lake. They
will return this evening.
Sun Antonio, Texa After killinc
vcryone of the 172 men in the gur-
ri,, ,,( nneicn. Villn mnvrtl iicrth
a considerable fon-e. Villa wax re
ported to lie on the San Oeroninn.
riicnh or Hie "Qnemada" ranch, and
troop of both the I'nited States and
Mexico were believed to be closing
in on him.
Thi information was reanled b
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE WILL
BOOST FOR LUNA COUNTY FAIR
I There xecms to lie little doubt hut
thai a Liiiih county fair will be hub!
; tliis fall. The committee, of whiou
!'.. !. allaiilighain ix the chairman,
ilaiis lor the holding of Hie most
s: cecful fn:r the county has ever
li.id. It i generally believed among
the farmer uml liiinexH men thai
n county fair is on,, of the greatest
"il that n county can have, and
ha ever before been. Not only will
ciih
disc i
prize be given, but nierehan-
a well. The products on dis
may wn lie iiulgcil liy evberts (nun
.In
oill-idc of I lie eniinty, but by those
fully ipialifieil to uiidertand the to
eiil conditions. A tentative premiuiu
i has already been gotten up, but
many udd:tioii will probably he
made.
U'. k. Ifcilden of W;IIcim, Ariz., and
S. II. Piichman of Toynh, Texas,
lioih i-iittlcuien, have been guests nt
the Vew Hotel Ihnc thi week.
PRESIDENT'S SERIOUS ATTITUDE
TOWARD RUMORS IS A SURPRISE
Most of Wild Talk Comes From the
Weak Minded Reacting Under the
Influence of Excitement or Booze,
is Observation Along This Border.
Iteming c'tizens have been not n
lilll.. Ui,f.,.iMu.l ti.i.l .in.......! IA
. .
limn' u'wiirii rumor onir'nnuug along
:,. . . " , "
""' bonier. There l a pretty clear
, . .. . . :
m:w .,4 lilil'ir-l
American in Mexico against
wb'cb I lie executive issued hi wnro
ieg, but it is also common knowledge
thai the most of the wild rumors or
iiriuate in I he addled brains of irre.
poii.-lble vros.iis. Those having
iricriy in this seetioii nre not des
erting it. 'ml they have ll definite le
lief that its future value depends
invv largely on how thoroughly the
Mexican across the line are impres
sed by American troop with the idea
of the sanctity , of the international
hoiisdiirv. Meanwhile anyone can
go out on the stnct in a rcceptivo
in 1 and hear that which he is min
ded to hear. And the t nries lose
nothing in repetition.
Believe in Free County Fair
iN.v II. A. Lane)
No one factor doe more to stim
nlale effort in the improvement of
I'ii nn conditions limn tin nntv fiiir.
ll is there tlmt ii;,. t'tirmer has nn
opportuirtv to see nnd observe the
progre-s lie!iij iinide in the improve
mciit of farm crops m, unimnls and
lo in hi it In effort with the
work of other.
Hi siicecs in competing with hi
neighbor stimulate him to grentcr
effort, and hi failures teach him
wherein lc work ha been nt fault.
The greatly increase number of
county and neighborhood fairs are
producing results in the up-building
of the far condition of the country
NVglilx.rhood or township fai
lead to county fair and county fair
should be encouraged in friendly
c..tuHtition with the state fair. A
properly conducted fair should and
doe. n'nlt 'ii increased production,
a -. better and increased production
iin reuse Innd value. The more
made to hold a county fair this year
i- a step for improving onr farm
cond!t:on thnuighi.nt Lunn county.
Established Post Office at Columbus
William Collins, ns assistant in tho
local post office, was sent Mondnr to
Columbus by (he wt office depart-
,,M'nl to establish a post office nr
'he camp of the army base of the ex-
ix-ditionary force. The facilities at
th- ' ilhisre pot office at that point
proved inadequate to handle the
f personal nnd nffeial eor-
repondence due to the activity.
J. A. Club
The J. A. Club met with Mis Mar-
gnn-t Randolph Monday afternoon.
Mr. T. V. Ryan made the highest
score The next fleeting will be
with Miss Esther Bolich.
