THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post
.lfice at Ronan. Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1875.
VOL. VI. NO. 49. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, MARCH 31, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
$15O0O W0GIEN
THEFLATHEAD
The senate on Monday passed Sena
tor Myers' bill appropriating $750,000
for the purpose of continuing the work
on the Flathead reclamation project.
Senator Myers asked for an appropria
tion of an even million but this was cut
down to the amount stated above. A
million dollars would not have been too
much but under all the circumstances
the people of the Flathead, as well as
Senator Myers, will be content at this
time with $750,000, and we of the Flat
head feel that every dollar possible was
secured by the untiring efforts of our
good friend, Senator Myers.
The bill still has to pass the lower
house of congress and there is no tell
ing what may happen to it there. Had
the project as faithful a servant in the
house as it has in the senate we would
feel that the appropriation was assured.
However, we shall hope for the best
and patiently await word from Wash
ington that the senate bill has been con
curred in by the house.
CUTWORMS AND WEATHER
BAD ON WINTER WHEAT
A report issued a few days ago by
the agricultural experiment station at
Eazeman says:
Reports are already coming to the
experiment station from several see
tions of the state that the army cut
worm which caused serious loss of winter
wheat last year is again doing damage.
Reports of serious winter-killing of
wheat are also coming to us. Farmers
are urged, therefore, to examine their
winter wheat fields at once to see if the
crop has been killed out or is being de
stroyed.
Look very carefully in the grain fields
for plants that have been eaten by
worms and search for the small worms
from a half inch to an inch in length
with the usual cutworm appearance.
The are more easily found in the late
afternoon.
Plants that have died from winter in
jury lie shriveled and dead on the
ground and may be easily pulled up as
the roots are dead and broken.
Bear in mind that winter-killing has
already been done and that cutworm
injury is just beginning. Poisoned bran
mash is recommended for cutworms
while early seeding of Marquis spring
wheat is urged for winter-killed fields.
Repudiate the Primary
Leaders of the Progressive party
committed that party to the primary
election law and Roosevelt himself was
responsible for the action taken. In
spite of this fact, Roosevelt is a candi
date for president, but his name will
not appear on the primary ballot. True,
some of his friends will go before the
people as candidates for delegate to
the Chicago convention with the
avowed intention of forcing Roose
velt's nomination by the republican
convention.
"Four years ago," says the New
Republic, "Mr. Roosevelt was the
champion of the direct presidential
primary. At Carnegie hall, New York
City, March 20, 1912, he declared,
'The great fundamental issue now be
fore the republican party and before
the people can be stated briefly. It is:
Are the American people fit to govern
themselves, to rule themselves, to con
trol themselves? I believe they are.
My opponents do not.' In his ' Con
fe.-ion of faith' put forth as formal
acceptance of the progressive nom
ination, the following August, he said:
' I found if I could appeal to the rank
and file of the republican voters. I
could generally win, whereas, if I had
to appeal to the political caste-which
includes the most noisy defenders of
the old system-I generally lost. More
pver, I found as a matter of fact, not
as a matter of theory, that these poli
ticians habitually and unhesitatingly
resort to every species of mean swin
dling and cheating in order to carry
their point.' It is no reflection on Mr.
Roosevelt to say so, but he knows it
and everybody knows it. that his own
name and the names of other men to
day are being kept off the ballot in the
primary election states, and a deliber
ate plan has been formed to discredit
the primary election instruction to dele
gates of no significance." The fact
that Roosevelt's last public utterance
on the subject of his candidacy while
declaring that he is not and will not be
a candidate goes on to say that it would
be a mistake to nominate him unless
the majority of the people have a
"heroic" mind, because he is only a
suitable president for a nation of heroic
men. The self complacency of this
utterance is only matched by its cun
ning, for what delegate to a national
republican convention will admit that
he is not a hero, and therefore the sort
of a man who needs the colonel for his
president."
Commenting on the above, the Kal
ispell Bee says:
Ex-Senator Joe Dixon who was a can
didate for delegate, not to the party
convention which made him national
chairman for four years ago, but to the
convention whose nominee he worked
so hard to defeat at that time with the
wads of cash furnished by Harvester
Trust Magnate Perkins, and Ex-Boss
Flynn, has avoided the horns of the
dilemma which threatened to impale
him in his announcement that he fav
ored the nomination of Col. Roosevelt
by the stand pat republican party. He
has amended that announcement by
saying that while he still personally
favors such course he will be bound by
the expression of the republican voters
in the presidential primary. If they
cast a majority of their votes for Root
or the devil then he will vote for;Root
or the devil in the republican national
convention. This is good party doc
trine, of course, but we imagine that
Dixon would have a hard time with
himself before he voted for Root in
case the voters of Montana should give
him a majority on the presidential bal
lot. That is hardly likely, however.
The consensus of opinion is that Cum
mins has the best chance to capture the
presidential primary vote.
DEMOCRATS ELECT OFFICERS
SPEECHIFY, EAT AND DANCE
One of the most enjoyable entertain
ments held in Ronan for a long time
was the annual meeting of the Ronan
Democratic club held on the evening of
the 24th in the Scearce hall. 'A large
crowd was in attendance Iandjlthe pro
gram was carried out almost exactly as
as published.
Then a recess of half an hour was
taken and an opportunity was 'given
for new members to join, about sixty
availing themselves of the privilege,
after which an elegant lunch was
served. Then came the election ofj of
ficers. A. committee on', nominations
was appointed composed of the follow
ing ladies and gentlemen: Mrs. Brand
jord, Mrs. Stillman, Messrs. Scearce,
Hull and Covalt.
The committee reported the follow
ing nominations: John N. Bailey, past
grand president; Dwight N. ;Mason.
president; J. J. Maloney, secretary; G.
W. Covalt, treasurer; A. Sutherland,
first vice president; Mrs. Dennis Dell
wo, second; Mrs. I. M. Brandjord,
third; Mrs. J. N. Bailey, fourth, all of
whom were duly elected. The; presi
dent was authorized to appoint an ex
ecutive committee of seven, and the
meeting day was fixed on the last
Thursday of each month.
Pleasing addresses were made by
Mrs. I. M. Brandjord, Mrs. Anna K.
Denny, Messrs. Scearce, Sutherland,
Mason, Brandjord, Bailey and J. A.
Lemire.
Mrs. Stillman and Miss Rafferty pro
vided some excellent piano music and
Mrs. Maloney and Miss Geraldine
Harvey sang several appropriate songs.
The evening closed with dancing.
The movement in Montana for Sen
ator Cummins for the Republican nom
ination for president has received
added impetus during the past week.
The efforts to start a movement for
former President Roosevelt did not
meet with the encouragement expected
by the promoters.
Senator Myers, who has been a hard
worker and a faithful friend to the
Flathead Indian reservation settlers,
has succeeded in getting his bill in
shape to pass giving relief to those
settlers whose lands were appraised so
outrageously high. It is some satis
faction that justice is in sight at last
for those homesteaders. -Dayton Leader.
The victory of Senator Cummins in
carrying the Minnesota primaries, to
gether with the reports that hundreds
of republicans in nearly all of the
western states are flocking to his
standard, makes him the logical candi
date of the west. That he will enter
the Chicago convention with the largest
individual support of any candidate
now seems certain. He will also be
the second choice probably of more
delegates than any other one man.
NEW LEADER OF
ENGLAND'S FORCES
T rE appointment of General Sir
Douglas Haig to be command
er in chief of the British forces
in France and Belgium recalls
to mind a paragraph in a recent report
of Field Marshal Sir John French, in
which he paid this tribute to the man
who has succeeded him:
"I desire to express to the army un
der my command my deep appreciation
of the splendid work it has accom
plished and my heartfelt thanks for
the brilliant leadership displayed by
General Sir Douglas IHaig and the
corps and divisional comlanlders who
acted under his orders in the main at
tack."
Although the world has known little
about him, Sir Douglas Hlaig has, of
course, been very much in the eye of
the British army for a long time. Sir
John French knows hi1 well, for they
took their first big course of practical
military education together. Major
IHaig in the African war was chief of
staff to Colonel French in that bril
liant series of minor operations around
Colesberg which prepared the way for
Lord IRoberts' advance, and when that
advance began he was closely assoel
atted with the present commiander in
chief in the work of the cavalry divi
sion. tIe has hald experience at the
war oflice. whire lie lus leti director
of military training, and in India,
where he was chief of the general staff
to Lord Kitchener's successor. For the
last two years lefore the war he com
manded those divi)Uions colcenttated
at Alderslhot which, under Lord tIHI
dontc's sclheine, were known ts the
"striking force'-that is to say, a force
always mobilized and always roedy at
: few hours' notice to go abroad.
It w0:s not until the (ilttle of the
Aisne that General Ihlig's nale began
Photou by American Press Association,
S111 DOUGLAS HAIG.
specially to disengage itself from those
of other general oflicers mentioned In
dispatches. In his dispatch dated Oct.
8 Sir John French specially selected
Sir Douglas IIaig for particular men
tion. On Sept. 14, when the first foot
ing had been gained on the north hank
of the Aisne, Sir John French wrote as
follows:
"The action of the First corps ott this
day, under the direction and cootmand
of Sir Douglas Haig, was of so skill
ful, hold and decisie a character that
he gained positions which alone have
enabled me to maintain mly position
for more than three weeks of very se
vere fighting ott the north bank of the
river."
Geteral IIi ig hail proved Iimttsel c
told, skillful and resolute as the leader
of an advance. lie was to prose lieu
self a few weeks later to possess to
the full that tenacity it defense wxvicli
fte had already shown in repulsing the
German counterattacks on the Aisne.
In October the British forces were
moved from the neighborhood of Sois
sons to the line from Ypres to La
Bassee, and the center of what has
been described as the greatest battle
in English history-the three weeks'
battle for the defense of Ypres-was
In Sir Douglas [Haig's hands.
There comes a point in every gen
eral's career perhaps when he gets a
division, perhaps not until Ie gets his
corps, at which the problems with
which he has to deal alter not merely
in degree, but in kind. Sir John
French passed that point brilliantly it
South Africa; Lord Roberts passed it
also perhaps at the same time. On the
other hand, there have been generals
like Sir Redvers Buller who never
passed It at all and remained magnifl
cent brigadlers. but Ineffective In the
control of larger forces. The signifl
cance of Sir Douglas Haig's threefold
triumph in France and Flanders is
that lie has proved himself to have
made this fateful step with brilliant
success. Before the war he had never
commanded In action anything larger
than a regiment, in maneuvers never
anything larger than a division. At
the Aisne he commanded a cezIs, and
now he commands armies.
THE MAN AND THE JOB.
Uncle Sam's Efforts to Bring the Two
Together Without Cost.
In the Woman's Home Companion
Secretary of Labor William B. WVilson
says:
"If you want a job, ask Uncle Sam.
If you want an employee, ask Uncle
Sam. The service is free. Distance is
no object. Your postmaster will act
as employing agent, and the govern
inent will do the rest.
"The national employment bureau,
operated under the auspices of the de
partment of labor, will receive appli
cations for employment from any in
dividual In the United States. It is
ready to find help for employers. The
object is not only to bring the 'person
less job' and the jobless person' to
gether, but to put the right person in
the right pllce. It Is one of the big
gest things the government of the
United States has ever undertaken.
"I earnestly commuend the facilities
of this bureau not only to any and all
employers, but to all individuals seek
ing work. Wonmeut can tim ke use of it
as freely and as readily as men. The
success of the entire plan now depends
upon the willingness with which the
average wage earner seeking a posi
tion will make use of tihe government's
aid in getting the job.
"The deptartment of agi-tititure anti
the postallico departmtent are hot h Co
opetiting with the deplrttmeiti of itlor
t immake Ile pro.i et a suceess. Em
ploymettt blanks have been sentt to all
ltstilnisters of the country atd to ev
ery field agent of tIle deplrtient of ag
rieulture. 'Timeso Ilanks may be had
upon request. Employers will state
upon iitit tiei number and kind of ent
Iloyees they art in need of, and nu
plyeistt will specify, in toun, the kind
of work they want. It makes no dif
ftrence what kind of work it is; it may
Ie housework, stenography, farming.
bricklaying, cooking, domestic help.
The ilanks will upon their return he
assorted and classified, and Itiilen the
department of labor. through its divi
sion of information. will try to bring
the wage earner and I he job together."
How to Keep Warm.
The secret of keeping out the cold
worth kitowing just now-is not to
naarut oneself too much. A moderate
amount of clothing, plenty of heat giv
imtg food and exercise-these are IIte
three essentials for the avoidance of
shivers. According to artile explorers,
anything containing fat, such as choto
lain, butter or bUcon, is a fine hett pro
moter. Alcohol is a snure tild it delu
sion.-London Chronitle.
A Ghost In the Commons.
1Ir. T'1 '. )(O'Connor, ivlo recently cel
ebrated his sixty-eighth birthnay. is
the only 11. I'. whose ghost nlix bheei
Seca in the house of c(innions. II 1197
"T1'. 1'." was a wiy In Ireluid, but Mr.
Swift MacNeill. who knew no1ling of
his journey, looked 1 1-toss to see if his
friend wIts in his place and saw him
sitting theire. "1'. 1'." Was iien at the
same Imue from the press gallery.
Hot Rag as Motor Starter.
Motorists whose cars are diflicult to
start in cold weather should remember
that a rug dipped in hot water and
wrapped around the carburetor will
usually cause the motor to start
promptly, says the Scientific American.
The reason is found in the condensa
tlon of gasoline on hlie carburetor
walls. The hot rag helps vaporIze this
liquid fuel.
Our Sealskin Crop.
The American government not' har
vests and markets its own sealskiis,
and utiher the enreful policy of protIc
tion in force 3n1 inexhaustible supply is
predicted within the next few years.
Because the war has shifted the world's
fur center from London to St. Louis
Uncle Srin will get about 23 per cent
more than usual for his 1915 crop.
A Record In Gas Pipes.
There are gas pipes and gas pipes.
In a tunnel under the East river In
New York engineers have just laid
two of the largest gas pipes ever made.
They are of iron, six feet in diameter,
with walls two and a quarter inches
thick, and they are nearly a mile long.
If the automobile has put the old
fashioned carriage on the scrap pile
that Is no reason for putting the horse
on the meat market.-San Francisco
Chronicle.
Speaking of railroad prosperity, last
year was the first one in more than
half a century when the now mileage
measured less than 1,000 miles.-Bos
ton Herald.
Congress has subjects before it
which will call upon its members to
make distinctly clear the difference
between the politician and the states
man.-Washington Star.
A PICTURESQUE
MODERN BABEL
Saloniki, the base of the allies In the
Balkans, at present affords an interest
ing commercial spectacle. The prices
are abnormally high, the retail stocks
are of inferior and depleted variety.
Yet artificial prosperity reigns, and ev
ery shopkeeper knows that hle ias the
public at his mercy.
If the harbor of Saloniki Is a con
glomeration of strange flags and of
every class of ship, it is as nothing In
coinparison with the quays. No Port
hl nor Marseilles ever knew so poly
t'hot o b~y .1A urriic m i'rr:,; A,,:;ialatio
AIA1EiiT I H(L.i iN HAiLONiI.
glota hiicel or : ' sulhll Ii ilcol, sopt
of li-stumes. TIhere are hI renchI "poi
lus." in their sky b11le unlifonrm. Drenc'h
Alpine chuasseur5, 1:1 In '-;aaltnt'it o ilar
Iie side of the hcaIi ; i ''rench cioliial
Ii'iips-T'irkios. 8ien io niais, in I aigy
klhtihi bloo milrs aind short gIt pr,:
freich marines, with red pooullis oi
their rojud cups; french ldraigoons, l.wit h
horse tails in their Iheliiiet s; french of
licers of every description; french ilsoil
ors and--comoioiiest of all-coail reel
troiiusered French IelrriiottorIls.
Afoot, hands of British Tomniles
push their way down the crowded
streets. 1ritish ofllicers, canes in iantl,
sweep the sidewalks from side to side.
drivliig lhe eonniless itinernit venders
into the street. French salnte Greeks;
Creeks solute French. But the Brit
isih only salite the British.
Cosmopolitn its are the inhabitants
of Salonilki at any time, they are more
so than ever now, increased as the
population has been by refugees from
Servia. Macedonia and i Thrace. Among
ilie piermammelit I imhmabitants, to judge
from the streets, Turks seem to pre
domina te. In the market pilaces of
Salonikci a motley thlmrog moves along.
many of diem at loss to express their
wrishles.
BIG TREAT IN STORE
FOR PEOPLE OF RONAN
At the M. E. church choir entertain
ment, scheduled for Wednesday night,
April 5th, the people of Ronan and
vicinity will be given the privilege of
listening to one of the foremost dra
matic artists of the country, Miss
Kathleen Frances Keats. Of her first
appearance in Spokane, the Daily
Chronicle says:
Kathleen Frances Keats, tie Spo
kane girl who returned recently from
graduating at the Greely School of
Dramatic Art in New York, where she
studied for many months, made her
first professional debut before an en
thusiastic audience of 200 at the Ma
sonic temple last evening.
Miss Keats, in her interpretive re
cital covered a wide range of dramatic
art, which gave her an excellent oppor
tunity to demonstrate her skill. She
has a rich, pleasing, melodious voice
and appeared at her best in the scene
from "Brand," one of Ibsen's master
pieces.
At the close of her recital Miss Keats
was accorded an ovation and received
two large floral bouquets. She was as
sisted in her program by Miss Rebecca
Lynde, pianist, and Miss Lena Witt,
soloist.
Miss Keats is a niece of Mrs. E. J.
Davenport of Ronan, and visited here
two years ago, since which time she
has been attending the best schools of
elocution in the country. Only the
fact that she comes to visit her aunt
makes it possible to secure her appear
ance in Ronan and the opportunity to
hear her should not be overlooked by
lovers of art.
The choir will also give their pro
gram and the entertainment will be
well worth attending. Remember the
date, Wednesday night, April 5th, at
the M. E. church.
TO INCORPORATE RAILROAD
COMMITTEE IS NAMED
At a meeting of the executive com
mittee of the chamber of commerce
yesterday noon at the Shapard hotel,
President Woods announced the follow
ing committee to proceed with the in
corporation of the Missoula-Flathead
electric road: J. H. Klein of Poison,
Stanley Scearce of Ronan, George
Beckwith of St. Ignatius, and W. H.
Smead and Edward Donlan of Mis
soula.
The matter of the Missoula-Flathead
meeting and its results, the decision to
organize for the purpose of promoting
the Flathead railway was discussed at
some length, and the executive board
gave its approval to the plans to or
ganize the railroad company.
WINTER WHEAT KILLED
IN EAST PART OF STATE
The wheat growers of this section,
says the Laurel Outlook, find that con
siderable of the winter wheat is dead.
At first, when the snow disappeared,
the blades looked green and some signs
of life were visible, but as the weather
warmed up the green vanished and it
was discovered that the roots were
killed.
The cause of the loss is believed to
be due to the sudden change in the
temperature last winter when the
mercury dropped from above freezing
to below zero. The chinook had thawed
the snow so that the ground was cov
ered with water when the cold snap
came. This is the first time that any
winter wheat has been killed in this
part of the state. The weather con
ditions last year were different from
anything we have had here since farm
ing began on the dry land. From all
all reports there will have to be a large
portion of the winter wheat reseeded.
Throughout the Flathead country
winter wheat is reported in good con
dition. The acreage is not as large as
that of last year but from every part
of the valley comes the good news that
it came through the winter in fine
shape.
The School Election
Tomorrow's school election promises
to be the most exciting of any school
election ever held in the district. There
ere several issues dividing the voters,
causing interest, and in addition the
various candidates for trustees, or
some of them at least, are beating
their friends out of the brush for the
battle of votes tomorrow. So far as
we are informed, the candidates who
have filed petitions and who are legal
candidates are C. 11, Beckwith and A.
J. Newton of St. Ignatius, A. E.
Piedalue and C. F. Rathbone of Ronan,
and J. B. Bear of the Round Butte
neighborhood. Mr. Bear and Mr.
Beckwith appear to have the backing
of the old board of trustees, Superin
tendent Logan and the supporters of
the present school system adopted in
this district. A. J. Newton is sup
ported by those around St. Ignatius
and other parts of the district who are
opposed to Mr. Beckwith, and as his
running mate have chosen Mr. Piedalue.
Both, so it is said, have the backing
also of other elements in the district.
C. F. Rathbone was brought out by
friends from various sections and is a
candidate independent from either of
the two combinations stated above,
with a platform defining his stand on
school matters in the district. Some
are predicting a very close race, while
others are confident their candidates
will win by decisive majorities. Two
are to be elected. Our prediction will
be made after the vote is counted.
The bond question is also to be set
tled and the result of this issue is a
matter of doubt. Polls will be open
during the afternoon and we under
stand all persons over the age of 21
years, and otherwise qualified, may
vote whether registered or not.
Farewell Party
Friends of Mr. and Mrs. P. A. Flat
ten arranged a nice little party in
Scearce hall last Thursday night as a
farewell to this estimable couple, who
leave about the 1st for their new home
at Grand Forks N. D. Games, music,
a luncheon, followed by dancing, was in
dulged in. During the evening Stanley
Scearce, on behalf of those present,
and with a few appropriate remarks
presented Mr. and Mrs. Flatten, as a
token of friendship and esteem, with a
beautiful chafing dish, Mr Flatten re
sponding with a few well chosen words.
The party broke up in the small hours
of the morning all wishing the honored
guests prosperity and happiness in their
new home.
