it
FULTON
Auditor. County 1-1-14 1 i
OUNT
VOL XXXII NO 51
WAUSEON, OHIO, FRIDAY MARCH 31 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
Y
TRIBUNE
OH Tfl BALTIMORE
Th Editor Takes Advantage of Ex
citement Concerning Chase for Villa
and i At Large in Maryland Notes
By The Way For Inquiring- Friends.
The Editor had been sick and at
home for weeks and there is where
the trouble began: Pope said "A lit
tle learning is a dangerous thing" and
recent events in the Tribune's force
go to show that we don't need Alex
ander Pope to tell us that with some
people too much kindness is a danger
ous thing when applied to a mule or
an editor that ''has got sot in his
way." In the first place the doctor did
that Editor up in cotton batting, as
though he was something very deli
cate and precious; then the "force"
sent him flowers and came to see
him and when he got out to the office
they told him that he must take care
of himself and not try to work until
he was stronger; in fact everybody
seemed to conspire to overcome him
with kindness until at last the edi
tor's head was turned, he began to
think that he did amount to some
thing and became possessed with the
rather insane idea of skipping his
board bill and his job and going visit
ing. The object point was Baltimore,
Maryland and one bright Friday
morning he looked out of a sleeping
car window to find that the level
fields and fine farm buildings of
northwestern Ohio had given place
to hills so, steep that they required
goats to climb them and the belching
smoke stacks of the mills and fac
tories that grow in eastern Ohio and
western Pennsylvania in place of
farm buildings.
On through Pittsburgh. McKeesport
Homestead and all the rest of those
places that these tys are scenes of
i i ?i j I a.
Dusy activity uay anu nignt trans
forming the hills of iron into steel
rails, tubes, wire, sheet iron and ar
mor plates. Down in
.'there seems to be no division be
tween the towns but a sort of con-
tinuous performance of towns: Sort
of a just one d m town - after an
other effect and one travelling through
this country realizes why we in Ful
ton county have to keep straining
every nerve to make thirty-three and
on third kernels grow where only
one grew, before: These people are
.too busy with their coal and iron to
raise enough to feed themselves and
when they are not busy they aro-on
a strike, and anyway they have to
stand their land up on end in order
to take care of it, consequently they
could not raise anything more than
a disturbance at the best.
On through the southern spurs of
the Laurel mountains of Pennsylvania
and across the state line into Mary
land and through the northern spurs
of Blue Ridge mountains with scenery peace
every iwh u uia "i xacb uuwii
amosg these mountains tehre isn't
much else but scenery. Its rather
wonderful how- nature managed to
pile so much stone on so little space,
she had to stand lots of it up on edge
to do it, but she certainly has got
a lot of stone piled up in these moun
tains! 1
We kept getting up in the air more
and more until we reached Frostburg,
Maryland, 2200 feet above sea level
with a population of 8000 people.
Someway we gair.ed the impression
THE GIRL WE CALL "HELLO."
There's a certain kind of people, very
usetui, yet ooscure,
Who receive small approbation from
the public, I am sure,
Yet the service which they render
none of us could well forego,
Still 'tis rare we kindly speak or
think of the girl we call "Hello."
The public simply takes her as a ccjj
in one great wheel.
Placed tii'are for the convenience to
promote the commonweal,
And it's rare indeed a kindness to
these faithful girls we show.
But oftentimes we "cuss" aloud the
girl we call "Hello."
We grasp our phone, a number give,
ind should there be delay.
We frankly are ashamed to own the
nwful things we say.-
We seem to think that ours must be
the only call, you know.
When perhaps some other forty
others, quite insistent. call
"Hello."
But still though "kicked" and "cuss
ed about, you always find her
sweet.
We don't know how she does it, we
confess to give up. beat
But when our days on earth are done
should we to heaven go,
We sure will find a multitude of girls
we call, "Hello."
(Just a tribute to the "Hello" girls.)
By A. KICKEK, Cortland, N. Y.
In The Telephone Review, N. Y.
Profitable and Pleasant Meeting at
Plattston 125 Present Grangers
Oppose Merging of Common Pleas
and Probate Offices in Fulton County.
A Huge Family Quarrel History's
Most Important Match When Na
poleon Married Marie Louise Es
pecially Written for Tribune by
Earle M. Wood.
When one casts a glance at the
great European conflict, it will be
realized that after all it is merelv a
this section large family quarrel. Practically all
the crowned heads are closely related
and so they have been since the be
ginning of . monarchy but perhaps-
the most famous and most important
matrimonial alliance in history is that
of Napoleon, bmperor of France, King
of Italy and Protector of the Confeder.
ation of the Rhine, with Marie Louise
Archduchess of Austria.
As soon as the French had conquer.
ed Prussia and forced the King of
Prussia to become their ally, as well
as the Czar of Russia, there began to
be revolutions in Spain and Portugal.
Taking advantage of these disturb
ances, Austria, the arch-enemy of Na.
poleon, rose at his back and prepared
to invade France. Napoleon turned
on his assailant with the fury of
tiger and marching his troops into
Austria, he captured Vienna and forc
ed the Emperor Francis to sue for
With all Europe at his feet, the
French Emperor decided to divorce
his wife, the Empress Josephine, and
make a match with one of the great
est royal houses of the world, so that
he might leave an heir to inherit his
throne and at the same time enter the
Empire of France in a mighty bond
of alliance with some great power.
So Josephine was divorcedl No
woman ever made a greater sacrv
fice than did this Creole Empress of
the trench. But Napoleon realized
that this, population was made up of he must ch0ose a bride from one of
travelling theatre people, lecturers the ancient dvnasties of EuroDe. and
Fulton County Grangers held a
pleasant and profitable meeting
March 25th, at Plattston. There were
125 in attendance. A splendid din
ner was served by the good sisters of
Fulton Grange.
The County Grange voted to hold
Field meeting and celebration July
4th in Howard's grove near Winameg.
Every body invited. '
An interesting program and an
address by a speaker of national re
known and basket dinner. After a
fair discussion of the question, "Would
it be advisable to merge the offices of
probate and common pleas judge," ef
ficiency and economy being duly
considered the grange adopted a reso
lution opposing the merging believing
that efficiency should not be sacrificed
for the sake of uncertain economy.
A number of choice recitations and
songs were enjoyed by all. The fol
lowing subjects were ably discussed:
"How to teach a child to read and
what should be 'found in his library,"
by Mrs. Mary Ames. Some discus
sion arose as to "How." It was shown
that knowing the alphabet is no hand
icap Jn learning to read. Children
should learn the alphabet and be able
to read before going to school in rural
districts. The word method was ap
proved of by some. Such books as
Animal stories, Heroes and Bible
stories, "Yourself and your House
Wonderful, by Helen Guerber is a
splendid book. "Get the Best." It
does make some difference what a
child reads.
Pay as you go road policy, by H.
Gasche who strongly urged the "Pay
as you go" plan, was discussed, most
ly on the "pay as you go" side. It
was said that $250,000 will be spent
in road building in our county this
year. . You should have been there.
One who was there.
and unsuccessful candidates who have
become acclimated by the repeated
frosts they have experienced until
they really prefer a frosty climate
all the time and have located here to
avoid the possibility of sudden chang
es, said to be very detrimental to the
well being of any of the classes enum.
crated above. We might have stopped
off her had it hot been that we hated
to dissapoint the people of Baltimore:
but we could not help reflecting that
it would be an ideal place lor Mr. w
his choice fell upon the sister of the
Czar Alexander, the Grand Duchess
Anna of Russia. When the rumors
spread that the selection of the Grand
Duchess was under consideration, fear
spread throughout the civilized world
Already there was a Franco-Russian
treaty made at Tilsit only a short
time before, and with a matrimonial
alliance as well, these two nations
would be the strongest combination of
the times.
Austria was quick to see what ef-
J. Bryan, providing he could arrange fect the Emperor's marriage would
for an adequate supply of grape have j, the bride ghould be the Grand
juice and commutation on the railroad Duchess Anna. With France and
to Washington. I Russia practically surrounding her,
Wa did resolva that we would fur-1 Austria would never be strong enough
nish gratis, to any inquiring friends, to take back the territory just taken
after November seventh, all the in-lfrom her by France. So the diplo
formation we possess concerning I mats of Austria conceived a clever
Frostburg. and we pledge ourselves to plan they decided to ooenlv enter as
do our utmost to turn the tide of im-1 a candidate for the French throne, the
migration from "Salt River," which we I daughter of the Emperor Francis, the
consider a very unneaitniui place, to-1 Archduchess. Marie Louise
ward this delightful spot, "up in the
air" and away from the miasmas and
"will-o-the-wisp" of hopeless ambi
tions. Who knows, we may yet gain
The Czar was perfectly willing that
his sister should become the wife of
Napoleon, but his mother, the Dow
ager Czarina and the Grand Duchess
E
COURT NEWS
Court Orders
March 27, 1916. Daniel Welch vs
Harry E. Welch et al, on motion of
plaintiff sale confirmed and sheriff
ordered to make deed upon payment
of purchase. Passed for distribution
in an allowance of attorneys fees.
New cases filed
DeWitt Williams as executor of the
last will and testament of William F.
Williams vs Mary Bonnell, et al.
C. E. Frankfather vs Chas. H.
Baker, action for accounting and
equitable relief.
Court orders
March 29, 1916, William Valter vs
Wm. Lake and Christine Lake. Settled
and dismissed; cost paid.
Case No. 7608. Fetterman vs Fet
terman, Ham and Stahl attorneys for
plaintiff. Assigned for trial April 4,
1916.
Case No. 7609. Shambarger vs
Shambarger, Ham & Stahl attorneys
for! plaintiff; Ham & Baser, attorneys
for- defendant. Assigned for trial
April 10, 1916.
Case No. 7611. Free vs Herman,
Ham & Stahl attorneys for defendant
Assigned for trial April 11, 1916.
Case No. 7615. Koos vs Koos. Ham
& Ham attorneys for plaintiff. As
signed for tyial April 4, 1916.
Case No. 7616. Barnes vs Barnes,
Ham & Stahl attorneys for plaintiff.
Assigned for trial April 4, 1916.
Case No. 7622, Caddell vs Caddell,
Ham & Stahl, attorneys for plaintiff,
files & faxson attorneys for defend
ant. Assigned for trial April 4. 1916
Case No. 7623, Eberly vs Eberlvi
G. B. Heise , attorney for plaintiff;
Ham & Stahl attorneys for defendant.
Assigned for trial April 5, 1916.
Case No. 7624. Richard Hainan vs
The New York Central. Dovl &
Lewis, etc.. attorneys for plaintiff; G.
A. Everett attorney for defendant,
Assigned for trial April 12, 1916.
State vs Clark, Chas. T. Stahl. at
torney for plaintiff; F. B. Fowler, at
torney for defendant. Assigned for
trial April 13, 1916.
Cannot Praise Them Enough.
Many sick and tired women, with
aches and pains, sore muscles, and
stiff joints , do not know that their
kidneys are out of order. Mrs. A. G.
Wells, Box 90 Route 5 Rocky Mount
N. C. writes: . "1 am taking Foley
Kidney Pills and cannot praise them
enough for the wonderful benefit I de
rived in such a short while. Fink &
Haumesser.
I am prepared with a large stock of
hand made harness ready for the
Spring trade. Give me a call.
49-16 CHAS. F. STOTZER.
For deep cuts use Hanford's Bal
sam. Get it to tne bottom oi tne
wound.
HUGE SUCCESS
Large Crowd Witnessed Old Maid's
Convention Last Thursday and
Friday Nights at Pythian Hall A
Play That Doesn't Wear OujL
ANNOUNCEMENT.
I wish to announce td the people
of Wauseon and vicinity that I have
purchased the grocery, feed and seed
store of Geo. Schletz and expect to
conduct an up-to-date grocery at this
place, also handle bulk ( seeds, mill
feed and poultry supplies. It will be
my aim to give you good service.
quality and quantity at right prices.
Your patronage will be greatly ap
preciated. WM. HAMMONTREE.
51-1-c Phone 83.
CONCERT.
The Wauseon Methodist Orchestra
will give a concert at the Wauseon
M.' E. church Tuesday evening April
11th. ' The program will consist of
the following: Orchestra selections,
instrumental quartets, duets, trios,
solos, vocal numbers etc. One and
one half hours of good lively music,
Come and enjoy it. Admission 10 and
20 cents. Remember the date.
"Variety is the spice of life, a
change now and then is relished by
the best of men." The amusement
seeking patrons of Wauseon were
given an opportunity on last Thurs
day and Friday nights of seeing a home
talent play which was an entire
change from the ordinary.
The Old Maid's Convention, al
though, nearly as old as the hills, has
proven to be a play that is everlast
ing; everyone seemed anxious to see
it, and under the clever managing
artists F. C. Smallman and Walter
Caddell, everythig seemed brand new
except the title, even to those who
had witnessed it a number of times be
fore. The management seemed to have
taken the limit off and really splurged
in presenting it. The cast after trans,
formation was of unusual magnitude
and importanceincluding some of the
leading lights in dramatic Wauseon,
among them were: Adda Edelman,
Fern Disbrow, Ada Omlor, Ruth Hill,
Mary Reese, Minnie Gorsuch and
Laura Edelman.
The spinsters: Leah Clark, Nellie
Dill, Mary Lehman, Lola Knapp,
Melissa Rowe, Alice Hill, Nettie Burr.
Florence Cark, Clara McQuillin, Chloe
Robinson. Flossie Harper, Nellie Gor
such, Bertha Vollmer, Lydia Clark,
Cora and Ruby Upp, Rena Lowe, Anna
Harlton.MaymeHauenstein represent.
ed nearly every type of feminine loveli
ness where youthful and prepossessing
appearance were so essential. Dr.
Pmkerton, (Reas Campbell) with his
Y Z Kay transform-her caused such
whirlwind of amusement as to
discourage the doctors of our town,
for when mirth has sway, hypochon
dreacal ailments usually take wings.
It ,was not the intention of this
company to perform more than one
night, but as a large number could
not find standing room on Thursday
night, they again gave the entertain
ment on Friday night to a fair sized
house. ,
The proceeds from the play were
nearly one hundred dollars and the
Pythian Sisters are indeed grateful
for the very liberal patronage.
CANDIDATE FOR AUDITOR.
I desire, to announce that I shall be
a candidate for the nomination to the
office of Auditor of Fulton county,
at the Republican primary in August.
FRED PERRY,
Fayette, Ohio.
Your new rug is here all sizes
all prices. , Do not miss our store
when looking for your' new spring
rug.
51-1 IVES-PIKE CO.
GIFT TO LIBRARY.
A larg panoramic photograph
taken forty-five years ago of the 'west
side of Fulton street, between Depot
and Elm streets, has -been given to
the Wauseon public library by Mrs.
Will Sangston, Mrs. Harrison Biddle,
Mrs. Koscoe Heise and ' McKiriley
Bloomer as a memorial to their
father and mother, the late Mr. and
Mrs. Albert S. Bloomer.
The panorama was taken by
Dunckelberg, each building being
photographed separately and the
prints joined neatly together. At
the extreme left appears the old L.
& M. S. railroad wood shed, while
across on the present drug store
corner in a two story white frame
building is the drug store of F. L. S.
larby. Then comes the jewelry
store of L. Lyon and H. T. Brigham
in the present Lyon building and the
dry goods store of Springer & Co,, in
the building now occupied by Spencer
Edgar-Vollmer Company. . The gro
cery store of Livermore and . Moseley
is m the building still owned by H; L.
Moseley and now occupied ' by the
Gelzer grocery. In a small frame
structure where the Shoop building
now stands appears the sign "Dan
Grubb, Headquarters." Another
frame building contains the grocery
store of J. and M. Mattison and then
come several buildings still standing.
ihe hrst ot these, now the grocery
department of Brigham, Guilford &
Co., then contained the ' dry goods
store of Clement & Greenleaf. Then
in the order named, come the hard
ware store of Brigham, McCbnnell &
White, the dry goods store of Gi W.
Hull and Brother, and the hardware
store of J; Q. Riddle. Next, and last,
comes the' old three-story Cheadle
opera house building where are shown,
the grogery store of T. O. Williams
and the dry goods store jf Leu ,&
Fairbanks. Just discernible at the
extreme right is the white spire of
the old Methodist church . which was
situated on Elm street midway be
tween the school house and the pres
ent Sherwood printing office. In the
foreground are the old wooden . hitch
ing racks and outside of them plank
ing upon which teams could drive to
be free of mud.
The law office of Jud Shaffer and
a dental office, presumably that' of
Dr. Berry, are on the second floor of
the Cheadle building and the law of
fice of C. F. Greenough 'is' above the
Brigham, McConnell & White hard
ware store. ' " . '
DONATIONS TO HOSPITAL.
The Wauseon - Hospital received
donations as follows from the good
people of this community:
;M..,.L.:;T Club-yTowels. -
Ladies of the' Maccabees Towels,
table cloth, wash cloths, spreads. '
C. P. Glub, .through Mrs. Chas.
Rossman Towels, wash cloths, sheets
pillow cases, napkins. -
Tourits Club x of York township,
through Mrs. T. C Wardley Turkish
towels, wash cloths, pillow cases.
Woman's Relief Corps 10 mat
tress pads, one comfortable; one cot,
bath towels, sheets, wash' cloths, 4
linen towels.
It certainly is very kind in the
ladies of the above clubs, and they
are doing a very good work in assist
ing the hospital as they are doing. We
are pleased to say that the hospital
is now amply taken care of in all its
wants, with ihe exception of sheets
and. surgical gowns. If there are any
of the clubs that wish to make sur
gical gowns, they can secure one for
a pattern at the hospital.
We heartily extend many . thanks
to the above clubs for their good
work, and assure you the same is
greatly appreciated.
CHAS. P.'GRIESIEB; Secy.
BEAUTIFUL LIFE GONE OUT
Martha A. .Moore, Minister of Uni
versalis!' Church at Lyons and Stry-
ker Died at Lyons Last Saturday
Funeral at Congregational Church
in Wauseon Wednesday. - ;-
Fair Crowd Witnessed Benefit, Game
Monday -Evening "Some Game
by Court House vs Post Office
'Tedrow- Showed. Some Speed. -.-
H. & M. MEETING.
Fulton County Horticultural and
Floracultural Society will hold their
next meeting in Berry Grange Hall
at Ai Thursday April 6th. Subject for
discussion: "Which -' requires the
More Intelligence '.to Make' a Dollar
or to Save or Spend it." Sherman
McCullough.' "' '
"Do Something for our Fair." W.
L. Biddle. - .
"What Can We Take to the Fair?"
Suggestions. Mrs. J. E. Merrill.".
. Basket lunch as usual. '
Window shades. Ives-Pike Co. 51-1
a reputation as a public benefactor by I herself were very much against the
thia means. I plan, and in order to escape the mar-
The railroads follow the rivers "age, the Grand Duchess married the
through these mountains except when German Duke of Oldenburg. The
climbing over or going through some matchmakers at Vienna were over-
f th mmmtilni! nhortlv after cross- joyed when they learned what the
ing the line into Maryland we came Russian Grand Duchess had done, for
In dffhfc at th larce Marvland State they knew that Napoleon's alliance
Tuberculosis Sanitarium lolated on with the Czar could not now last for
a mountain aide some 1500 feet above long, and when that long expected
beautiful vallev. Tunnels are f re- moment came, Austria would be
quent but fortunately not very long, a position to recover the possessions
mnA th air and sunshine which act she had lost to France.
unon a neraon like an elixer were with Finding himself cheated out of
n Hurinir moat of thia ride. The first mating with a Romanoff, Napoleon'
good road that we saw" in Maryland second choice fell upon the Hapsburg
waa near Blue Ridge and made us Archduchess Marie Louise, and the
think of Ohio and the level stretches world was astonished when their be-
of atone road in Fulton county. Down throthal was announced. Plans were
here with stone in abundance the few hastened for the wedding, and al
roads that we saw seemed for the through the Roman Catholic Arch
most part to be mud. bishop of Vienna at first refused to
a ui j . v. -t perform the ceremony as the Em
thing, that caught our eyes as we peror was a divorced person, he con
came into the city was a large bill hen Napoleon assured him
board bearing the cities slogan, "Cum. at the marriage to Josephine had
i , j been annulled; and he performed the
membered that "Wauseon is Your m?aSe Vl.enn? b Proxy' fr
t a w w...nn wr which Mane Louise ascended the
nr-n, it it ji. oia I throne of France,
these facts in letter, a yard high to . S.hortlJ after. Napoleon in his wild
th. tr.v.linir nublic. Mavbe it would d.e8lre ?or more territory, annexed
be better if Wauseon advertised more.
. At Cumberland we found the His
toric Potomac river and except for a
brief excursion which our train took
up to Hagerstown, we followed this
river until we were near the city of
Baltimore.
We found that
the Potomac."
the Duchy of Oldenburg to the Em
pire, and the Duchess went back to
Russia where her brother, the Czar
took up her quarrel. When, as a re
sult. France and Russia went to war,
Napoleon received the blow in his re
treat from Moscow that undermined
his hones. History crives Russia
all wa. quiet along the credit for overthrowing the Em
peror of the- French, but shall we not
We were met in Baltimore, by kind say that the real plotters were those
friend, who tooK u. in charge ana at Vienna, who arranged the mar
kept us from falling into the hands riage of the Gorsican and the Arch-
of the police, hi lact mere was so duchess of the Hapsburgs 7
mnpi -rritAment in Baltimore over
Tciiw annlnv' Tnwtino- which are An Ideal Spring Laxative.
v f nil Klnat that not even the A good and time tried remedy is Dr.
f .,. f tVi eitv knew of our com- King's New Life Pills. The first dose
w a tfc ataM we reached will move the sluggish bowels, stimu
this fair citywe have lost much of our late the liver and clear the system of
"invalidism" and are getting down
to a perfectly normal condition, hop
ing soon to be able to return to our
familiar haunt, in Ohio.
V Buy your new outfit
home of Ives-Pike Co.
for the new
51-1
One remedy with many uses Han
ford'. Balaam of Myrrh.
waste and blood impurities. You owe
it to yourself to clear the system of
body poisons, accumulated during the
winter. Dr. King's New Life Pills
will do it. 25c at your Druggist.
Why not buy your daughter that
new White maple bed room suit this
spring? Very reasonable in price.
51-1 IVES-PIKE CO.
BASKET BULL
Madam, This Arrangement and These , Prices H?ve Been Made Especially To Please You
Our Pre-Easter Exhibit and Attractive Special Prices on Ladies' and
Misses Apparel is a Climaxing Accomplishment
of This Spring's Festival
Exceedingly Rare Price Quotations
on Ladies' and Misses' Suits
which means true ECOMOMY, STYLE, FIT and
SATISFACTION plus QUALITY.
Suit Values:
from $20.00 '.upwards to $35.00
In this Special Sale We Offer Them
,from $15.00 to $27.50
Further this Combination includes such reputed
and characterized Clothes as the Landesmann &
Hirschheimer and The Printzess. ' It suffices to say
since we have chosen these HIGH CLASS LINES of
TAILORING upon the strength of those above
named, most IMPELLING and DESIRABLE
MOTIVES:.
You can appreciate these splendid offerings.
And too, we talce pleasure in showing you our
CHARMINGLY STYLED SUITS and invite you to
avail yourself of this genuine opportunity.
The Ideal Millinery
Special Low Prices is a Note Worthy
Feature in This Department.
Diversity of Styles in Millinery is the Prime Characteristic
of the present mod as.
Small, Medium and Large Hats
with various trimmings are all the vogue; thus a shape be
coming everybody is very readily obtainable here.
Separate Skirts Sale
Onsalefrom - - - $2.50 to $8.00
Women's Tailored Walking Skirts in many styles and ex
ceptional values should " appeal to you most effectually at
these named Prices.
Sale on Ladies' and Misses'
Raincoats
i ....
1 Lot $8.00 Values Sale Price $4.40 '
1 Lot $5.00 Values Sale Price $2.50
These coats are air double texture with seems
all sewed and cemented, the styles consist of plain
or belted backs with regular or set in sleeves, and
the colors are dark and light oxford, navy tan and
fancy stripes and mixtures, in sizes from a Miss of
12 up to Ladies 46. . ,
This affords an excellent opportunity in the
point of QUALITY and VALUE at these attractive
SALE PRICES. Fill your needs.
Ladies' and Misses1 Coals Sale
Special Price from $7.00 to $18.00
Includes SEPERATE JACKETS and SPORT GOATS.
White and Fancy Colored Corduroys, Plain .White and
Fancy Checked Chinchillas, suitable for early spring and
summer wear. For the more conservative Ladies we have
black in silks, taffetas and poplin, and wool poplins fox.,
regular and stout figures in various colors.
House Dress
Sale
1 Lot of Dresses most
appropriately styled and
trimmed, ON SALE
HERE' Only - $.00
Lot 2 House Dress com
posed of Gingham and
Percale of unusually good
styles, On sale here only
65C 2 for - $.9
Lot 3 The Apex, as it's
name implies it actually
serves the purpose, of a
dress. On sale here
only - - 50c
Martha A. Mo6re,: daughter of
Amos Hosmer Jordan Rebecca Jor
dan, was born in 'Royalton township,
May 17th, : A. D. 1843, and died at
Lyohs; Ohio, March 25th, 1916, aged
seventyitwo years,' ten months and
eight 'days. ' ' '
She was married to Thomas H.
Moore. October 7thj 1869, and to this
union was born' three sons, Fred, Har
ry and Thomas, Who died twelve, thir-
ty and six years' 'ago, .respectively.
Her husband died September 7th,. 1907
after a lingering illness of many
years. '
The deceased leaves three sisters,
Mrs. Elmina- C Hough, Mrs.- Hattie
Cantleberry and Mrs. Elizabeth Holt,
and -numerous neices and nephews,
surviving. . , . -.
With the loss' of her loved ones
came other' reverses, all combining to
make sorrow s burdens weigh iupon
this woman beyond the power, of most
mortals to-bear.'-' But they but serv
ed as- beacons to make her intrinsic
worth- and sublime - fortitudes.- She
rose far above and beyond the dark
shadows of her own- great trials into
life's higher altitudes-, where the light
of her own ' 'gracious love and sacri
fice lit the path to. many a disparing
traveler. ' '
As a means of livilihbod at the ad-
advanced age of sixty-six years she
became, a minister in' the' Universa-
hst f aith, and despite the ravages
of time and ; disease, she kept.at .her
post of duty until a "short time before
her death. . ' .'
Such was the nobility of her char-
actet, that it is hard for one not m
close touch with her to realize it s
simple grandeur. Her's was a life of
love and devotion for others. She
smiled, the heart ached, that others
might catch the inspiration;' she
preached hope, though the steel of
affliction and adversity was in her
soul: she laid a comforting hand upon
the brow of the distressed, though, she
herself, had felt repeated blows by
the ruthless hand of death. She bur.
ried her own sorrows, she forgot her
own pain,-that . she might be free to
give a cheering smile and a warm
hand of love to ' the disappointment
hand of love to- the despondent. The
night was never too dark, the path
never too rough, nor the discomfort
of illness too great, that the 'call of
distress did not find her great heart
throbbing in unison with the call and
fired with the zeal to respond.
Her faith was as firm as the "Rock
of Ages." On her piano the writer
found a book opened to the last song
that had thrilled her -soul, one typical
of her faith "The Morning. Land."
She felt she was simply mothering
the needy here till the great day when
that motherhood should be transferred
to her own "boys", -whom she believed
were always with her. and whose ap
probation she sought in her every step
in life. She saw the star of hope
break through the rift in every cloud,
and confident it but foreshadowed the
morning's light. What needs more
to be said on that theme.
Just another rose fading neath
the appresive heat of. many acrid
days, though still fragrant with love's
(Continued on page ten)
A fair sized crowd turned out to
witness the benefit Basket Ball games
for the hospital. . The weather, was
bad and kept a good many away.
The first game between the eighth
grade and the Freshmen teams was
a fairly good game the Freshmen win
ning by a score of 18-4.
The second game between the Post
Office and Court House was a fast
e. Both teams roughed each other
considerable. These teams are about
equally matched, neither team hav
ing played very much in ' the past
tew jears. In the last few mmute3
of play the Court House by hard play
ing made a basket and at the same
time a foul was called on one of the
Post Office players; the final whistle
blowing just as the foul was being
thrown. . If the foul . had. been
made it would liave counted but was
missed, and the teams kept right' on
playing and the Court . House team
made . another basket; this one of
course ,didn't count, as near as- we can
learn, but if the Post Office were only
one' point ahead the first basket made
would put the Court House team one
point ahead, score. 15-14. In discussing
this -.we don't know-exactly how to
give the score. We advise both .teams
not to rough so much, next time and
listen more for the final whistle.
The last game between the High.
School and Tedrow was fast, the score
ending 41-13 in favor of High School.
T,he Tedrow team deserve much credit-
for .the . showing they made. A
few more games with fast teams like
Wauseon, and good coaching, should
make this team a. hard bunch to de
feat. . ':
The gross receipts of the game
were $51.55. .
WEEKLY WEATHER FORECAST
Issued by the U. S. Weather Bur
eau, Washington, JJ. U., for the week
beginning Sunday, March 26, J.916:
Comparatively mild weather will
prevail .throughout the coming week
generally' m' the Mississippi Valley
and in the districts east thereof, al-
though there will be a reaction Sun
day and Monday from the abnormal
ly high temperatures that now pre
vail in the' great central valleys and
the Gulf States. This change to
cooler weather will be of short dur
ation, however, and temperature will
again rise in these regions by Tues
day. West of Mississippi River low
temperatures at the beginning of the
week will be followed by a general
change to warmer Monday and Tues
day and moderate temperatures there.
after during the remainder of the
week. '-' A disturbance that is nan
over the Mississippi Valley will ad
vance northeastward and be attend
ed by general rains Sunday over
much of the country ,east of the Mis
sissippi River,' with thunderstorms ir
the Southeastern States and showers
on Monday in the - Atlantic States
and the lower Lake region. Another
storm will advance inland from the
Pacific Monday or Tuesday, pass
eastward to the middle Plains States
and-' the upper Mississippi Valley the
middle of the week; and to the East
ern States about Thursday. This
'disturbance,.. will be preceded by a
general change to warmer weather
over v western and . southwestern dis
tricts and be attended by general
rains in the north Pacific States and
the northern and middle States east
of the Rocky Moutains. It will be
followed by cooler weather over the
northern half , . of the country. The
weather during the week will be gen
erally fair in the -Gulf States, the
southern Plateau and southern Rocky
Mountain regions, and California.
. f
The Court of Last Resort.
Around the stove of the cross roads
grocery is the real court of last re
sort, for it finally over-rules all others.
Chamberlain's Couh Remedy has been
brought before. thii court in almost
every cross roads grocery in this
country, and has always received a
favorable verdict. It is in the coun
try where man expects to receive full
value for his money that this remedy
s most apprecated. For sale by all
dealers.
I now have in my ware rooms four
car loads of buggies for the spring
trade. These are up to date in style
and quality. Call and see me. I posi
tively will not be undersold on the
same cass of vehicles.
49-16 CHAS. F. STOTZER.
Try one of our Vac Sweepers in
your home thirty days free.
51-1 IVES-PIKE CO.
SAVE MONEY, Follow The Crowd That is Coming
THE SPENGER-EDGAR-VGLLMER COMPANY
Wauseon's Exclusive Dry Goods Store
PR EST I Q E
When a check is received bearing I III
llll the name, "First . National Bank", it I I
II II carries with it prestige and the re- jj I
llll . cipient knows the maker of the check ' 11 1
HI has sound banking connections. j
I II " In offering the services of this bank, .. I
I II . - we are placing. at your disposal bank-
I II ing relations that must reflect to your llll
HI advantage in ' all your business ' j
HI dealings, which is prestige.
First National Bank
'The BANK-BY-MAIL Ba"
Wauseon, - - - - Ohio II 1
