4
'fe
'I
|!-r
IL
OFFICIAL PAPER OF CITY AND COUNTY
VOL. LVII. NO. 32
•k
Miss Anna Grinhaug left yesterday I For Bargains in town dwelling, see
ffor Spring Valley, Minn. Andrew Smith, Cresco, Iowa. 29tf
GASOLINE
FACTS
ACCORDING TO GOVERNMENT REPORTS, more crude oil was pro
duced in the United States during the past year chan during the previous
year.
PRESENT HIGH PRICES cannot be honestly attributed to a shortage of
crude oil.
1,890,000,000 GALLONS of crude was PLACED IN STORAGE last year,
and not refinnd.
300,000,000 GALLONS OF GASOLINE were exported from the United
States to supply FOREIGN DEMANDS.
LAST REAR, when the consumption of Gasoline was about len times what
it is now, the price was LESS THAN HALF of the present price.
RIGHT NOW, certain interests are offering the Independent refiners 18J
cents per gallon for Gasoline in tank cars f. o. b. Oklahoma points, for
export. It costs between 11 and 2 cents freight from Oklahoma to Iowa,
which means that only the Independent Oil Companies who can now meet
the Standard prices are those fortunate enough to have on hand gasoline
purchased at a lower market.
THE STANDARD OIL CO. has the yower to CREATE A "SHORTAGE"
or a "SURPLUS" at its own sweet will.
If the Independent Oil Companies suffer, YOU bear the high price burden.
GASOLINE USERS, as well as gasoline dealers, ought to demand govern
ment regulation of the marketing of Gasoline, a commodity which has be
come an absolutp necessity to millions.
WHY NOT WRITE YOUR LEGISLATORS in Washington, NOW, asking
for their co-operation?
Yours truly,
THE HAWKEYE OIL CO.
*695
Roadster $675
/. o. b. alt da
Five-Passenger Touring
Order Now
—to Get Your Overland
This is the same Overland—with improvements—
that last season sold for $750. The price is $55 less.
It is the most popular Overland ever built.
Already there is an enormous demand for this car.
More than 60,000 of this model have been sold and
delivered.
The price will never be lower, for the cost of all
materials is rising.
So order your car now, to be sure of getting, it
Mm bloc 35 horsepower motor Demountable rims, with one extra
tlettric storting mnd lighting sgstem 106-inch wheelbese
Electric control buttons on steering column Deep diven upholsterg
Four inch tires One mm top top cover
Call, Tolophona or Writ* for Demonstration
Ahern Bros.. Cresco
Mrs. Frank Riehie went to Spillville
Friday to visit her son George.
President—Mrs. Kate Culbert.
yice-Pres.—Mrs. Anna fessenden.
Secretary—Mrs. L. E. Emmons.
Treasurer—Mrs. H. C. Salisbury.
Chairman Membership Committee
Mrs. I. J. Booth.
Chairman Finance Committee—Mrs.
J. Q. Rowlee.
Vice Chairman Finance Committee
Mrs. Lottie Kellow.
Chairman Literature Committee
Mrs. Lloyd Barker.
The new club, which already has more
than 70 members, let no grass grow un
der its feet but proceeded at once to
divide the city into districts and can
vass for members under the able su
pervision of Mrs. I. J. Booth.
The suffragists will a little later can
vass all the voters of Cresco on the
question of suffrage. This task was
already well begun by Mrs. J. Q. Row
lee. In a canvass which she made of
the leading business men and others
only two out of 150 failed to sign the
pledge to vote for suffrage June 5th.
The first meeting of the new club
will be held next Wednesday afternoon
at 2:30 o'clock at the library. All
members and those who desire to be
come members are invited to attend.
Important business will be transacted!
The women of every town and city
itriowa are organizing to work for the
ballot, and those of Cresco are deter
mined not to be behind in the big pro
cession. They have begun work with
great enthusiasm and will make many
votes for their cause by election day.
Suffrage clubs in all the other towns
in the county will be organized soon by
Mrs. Elsie Benedict, assisted by Mrs.
Amos Barker, the chairman for How
ard county. Nearly every man and
woman at Mrs. Benedict's meeting
Monday night, signed for suffrage.
School Principal Acquitted.
O. C. Luce, accused of assault and
buttery
liams, was given a legal acquittal da
Tuesday last at his trial before W. L.
Barker, justice of the peace, but it is a
verdict which does not meet the ap
proval of the majority of school pat
rons, and it is doubtful if a jury could
have been secured in Cresco which
would have acquitted Luce of the charge.
The Plain Dealer has been both criti
cized and complimented for the senti
ment in our brief item concerning the
affair in last week's issue. We do not
expect our views to always meet with
popular approval, but we believe that
in the past the Plain Dealer's stand on
local public affairs have been vindica
ted oftener than we have been proven
in the wrong, and when we state that
the usefulness of the present school
heads is over, we make a statement
we believe will prove to be correct.
Teachers' Association.
The Northeastern Iowa Teachers'
Association will hold its twenty-second
annual meet in Waterloo, Thursday,
Friday and Saturday, March 30, 31, and
April 1, 1916. Headquarter will be at
the Russell-Lamson hotel. An espec
ially strong program has been provided
for all departments of the educational
world. Men and women of state and
national reputation as educators and
statsmen will participate in the gen-:
eral programs. Every effort has been
made to make this a banner meeting,
both in attendance and in the character
of the program. Ex-president's day
will be on Thursday and on Friday a I
School Officer's Conference will be
organized. An unusually strong pro
gram has been arranged for this con
vention.
Finds lska Charge False.
Seeking vindication of the charge
that he is being paid $200 a month to
make his paper, the Weekly Vesmir,
pro-Austrian, Dr. Frank lska appealed
to Hinton G. Clabaugh, head of the
federal department of investigation.
George N. Murdock, special agent of
the bureau, after investigating, says
there is no truth in the report. This
has had the effect of calming many
Bohemians who threatened violence
agsinst lska. -Chicago Tribune.
Road Coaveabea Saturday April 15th.!
Pursuant to instruction a road con
vention is hereby called to be held at1
the court house Saturday, April 15th,
at 10 a. m. Road work by practical
road builders—the men behind the guns
—will take up the forenoon. Afternoon
such matters as the meeting may deem
proper. Chair .nan
FOR SALE Some used cars, bar
gains. Ahern Brr.«. 29-tf
Dealer.
PLUCK, PROGRESS, PERSEVERANCE AND PATRIOTISM IN POLITICS BY MEAD PUBLISHING COMPANY
CRESCO, HOWARD COUNTY, IOWA, FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1916 $1.00 PER YEAR
Woman Suffrage League Organized.
Over sixty of the leading women of
the city gathered at the Court House
Wednesday afternoon, and under the
direction of Mrs. Elsie V. Benedict or
ganized the Cresco Woman Suffrage
League. The officers of the club are:
ROYAL
BAKING POWDER
Absolutely Pure
No Alum—No Phosphate
"'My Home Town Girl" Please*.
"My Home Town Girl" drew a full
house at "The Cresco" Wednesday
evening in spite of the almost impas
sible roads, and Cresco is more firmly
fixed than before on the theatrical map,
and Mr. Kelley, the manager of the
show, who owns and controls three
other attractions equally as good as
"My Home Town Girl" tells the Cres
co opera house management that Cres
co will always be remembered by him
when booking his shows through this
territory.
"My Home Town Girl" gave prob
ably the best satisfaction of any com
pany since the appearance of "High
Jinks," the opening attraction, and
equalled that in every respect save that
the music was not quite so high class,
but even so it was so catchy and tune
ful that there is little room for criti
cism. The work of the principals, Mc
Intyre and Hyams, was superb, the
former is a dainty singer who found
favor with the audience as soon as she
appeared on the stage, while Hyams
with his finished comedy kept the audi
ence in a continual storm of laughter.
Edna Von Luke scored a hit as Madam
Marie, the modiste, with her eccentric
and rather acrobatic tendencies. Roy
Purvience was rather above the average
of musical comedy tenors, and Alma
Youlin, the prima donna, possessed a
voice of richness and power that met
with the hearty approval of the audi
dence. The others in the company
were up to the high standard set by the
principals, and the costuming and splen
did
.atag^ Mttipgs ^^ded.roucfe to the
general satisfaction giv
pany.
Third Lecture at LuthenuSChurch.
Friday, March 31, Prof. M. J. Hegland,
President of Waldorf college willjdeliv
er the third lecture in the lecture!
course
given in the Lutheran church. ({Prof.
Hegland comes highly recommended.
He will speak on the following topic,
"Some problems of a New Age." Lec
ture in First Lutheran church at 8 p.
m. In Orleans Lutheran church at 3
p. Prices as before.
City Election Quiet.
At the city election on Monday only
a few over 100 votes werejeast, there
being no opposition whatever to the
nominees of the citizens caucus.
Total assets
Total deposits
Surplus fund
Total liabilities
Baptist Church.
Services will be held as usual at the
Baptist church next Sunday. Morning
theme, "Showing Forth the Lords
Death until He Comes." Evening sub
ject, "The Greatest Sin a Man can
commit against Himself." This is the
first of a series of three sermons
the pastor expects to preach*
The next two will be "The Greatest
Sin a man can commit against his fel
lows, and against his God."
Our Sunday school is rapidly coming to
the front in number and in effective
ness. The Lord's supper will be ob
served after the morning service mem
bers are urged to attend.
We are expecting a treat on Friday
night when the Canadian Jubilee sing
ers are to be with us. Tickets are
going fast. Tickets 50 cents, children
under 12, 25 cents. We are glad to see
so many strangers coming among us.
The last preaching service of the con
ference year will be held in the Ridgo*
way Evangelical church, Sunday a. m.,
immediately following Sunday schooL
Everybody invited to attend this serv
ice. W. A. SCHOLER, Pastor.
Tailor made suits as low as $15.00 at
C. T. Brown's, the expert tailor.
CRESCO STATE BANK.
Statement of the condition of the Cresco State Bank, organized under the
laws of Iowa, located at Cresco, County of Howard, at the close of business on
the 28th day of March, 1916, made to the Auditor of State.
ASSETS.
Amount of bills, bonds and other evidence of debt discounted or pur
chased actually owned by this bank! $412,
Gold in vault $ 3,340.00
Silver in vault
679.50
Legal tender, national bank notes and subsidiary coin 14,670.76
Drafts, checks and other cash items not dishonored 197.75
Total gold, silver, legal tender, drafts and checks, etc., carried out 18,
Amount subject to be drawn at sight on deposit with solvent banks.. 101,
Overdrafts
Value of real estate..
7,
Value of personal property 1,
LIABILITIES.
Amount of capital stock $ 75,000.00
Amount of deposits subject to check $149,449.22
Amount of demand deposits 9,790.52
Amount of time deposits 198,559.32
Amount of savings deposits 93,769.98
Other profits after deducting expenses 6,040.73
STATE OF IOWA, HOWARD COUNTY—SS.
We, John Farnsworth, President, and Henry W. Young, Cashier of Bank
above named do solemnly swear that the foregoing statement is full, true and
correct, to the best of our knowledge and belief, and that the assets therein set
forth are bona fide the property of said bank in its corporate capacity, and that
no part of the same has been loaned or advanced to said bank for the purpose
of being exhibited as a portion of its assets.
'a
J. A. PETTIT, Pastor.
Methodist Notes. --I
"Ambassadors for Christ" will be
the theme of the sermon next Sabbath
morning at 10:30. The American Am
bassadors are very busy and important
personages throughout the world today,
why? Sunday evening at 7:30 we are
to spend an hour with some noted sac
red song writers, and the interesting
incidents connected with the writing of
their most popular song.
Sunday school will hold its session at
11:45, Junior League at 3 and Epworth
League at 6:45.
Adventiat Church Notes.
public is cordi»%in*it*dJfe
swr
The
attend a&rvieea as ft
Odd Feflowa hall, 2:35 p. m., a miaiion*
ary program will be given. Sabbath
School at 1:30 p. m.
There will be no service Sunday night*
as the pastor, Elder Wolfe, will hold
quarterly communion service in Rice
ville. The topic for a week from Sun
day night you will want to hear "Why
Sin Was Permitted."
Evangelical Church
I
Ji
736.02
888.01
245.31
240.41
000.
OOO.CO
$541,109.77
451,569.04
8,500.00
$541,109.77
JOHN FARNSWORTH, President
HENRY W. YOUNG. Cashier.
Sworn to before me and subscribed in my presence by John Farnsworth and
Henry W. Young, this 28th day of March, 1916.
[SEAL.] EDWIN A. CHURCH,
Notary Public in and for Howard County.
Attested by ASA A. FARNSWORTH and E. P. FARNSWORTH, Directors.
