Jnb 3 {iia &I4 t im mrnaI
l arnal of the Police Jury and School Board of Jefferson Davis Parish - : : Official Journal of the Board of Trustees of the Town of Welsh
XV. WELSH, JEFFERSON DAVIS PARISH, LOUISIANA, FRIDAY, MlAl[Cli 31, 191:. NIJMBER 4
PEOPLE INTERESTED
II EW GRAIN SEPARATOR
a t deal oft inter -t l,. t i lien
S . .broughout this c ti i a
dp.- separator, the -n tin : f
O " po.e a of Eul.d (klahdlmu a,
'ib the Journal puhieh.d a Il't'lE
Il a shot t time The
hi, which i, a (lirei't s tii ature ,
m the principles at tht - : u bItlh t
,0i present use emnot itn ,t '.·I ,
hb attract rice m e, il th, a n all
r clas. of grai prisuetr, oni
lount of its ability to rit iive the'
from the straw and seCOl ate it
r. the chaf without cracki hdn or
wg.Iig the grair', which ;il ii tithe
threshers do to a cditet'ir o0
renteDt.
fmachineb is very ighit o weight,
0ieted and r1eady fur Opl)tat!tol it
-ghs- but 2100 pound., .carcely t l e
ton the ordinary iarin wal , . It is
e of constructitn. emnlid i1 1( no
tpliated features, and i (, I iiore
fb ordinary durability. It emlhloys
acgtrilugal force in renioHviing the
vari,h baving neither c lindetr teeth.
aIre, riddle or scrteen,ll and no co
es. The niachine is ot aitto,liatic
tlion, pickili the li\'ve troulll the
omund.
At a public del:lnt:'atioll (ot this
Sine recently given at Enid over
thIee hundred farmers and I)iIinlss
awere in attendance and all were
.ggiastlc over the results of the
ttslmade. An ordinary tractor being
ployled to furnish the power, a load I
dbuef wheat which was of such poor
guilt that it would test the ability of
,y machine to handle it with only or.
~i results was threshed iii le.- than
eominutes. To flrther test the vir
tadthe machine a number of hIund
ldwht were placed head down in
rt*dwaterand thoroughly soaked.
,iN wet sheeves were fed int: the
aoft and an examination showed
lt not a grain of wheat was left on
iltraw. The machine al:;o ettects
ll dryng of the excess of oisltulre
kt the grain al well, this particular
eattir'e being ; great adIvantae itn
.ving wet grain.
Icaltl capititali`ts see great Io-ihili
;es in this lite invcution alid will make
I c(ncerted ellort to interest the in
ePltor in bringing his machine la re
o'r . (ldemonstrationi, while they allo(
-nteritain somie hopes of securingi its
 nnufacture here.
The manufacture of an article of this
in(l, havin a crying demand to fill in
Sfleld that is unlimited is a matter forl
eeriolus Lc nj, cture. Calital is w,:iting
or ain ollpporituiiity, mnaterial is a'w. se
Ible, skilled labor is plentiful here, and
:ao)dlitioiis all point the hand of favIor
to great lossibilities in such an enter
pr'ise.
EDUCATORS MEET IN
LAKE CHARLES APRIL 12
Lafayette, La., March 22. 1916.
To the Teachers of Louisiana:
Since some teachers are solicitous
about the meeting to be held in Lake
Charles, on account of the typhoid epi
demic which was prevalent there sever.
al months ago, I take this opportunity
of saying that the health authorities,
both state and local, are of the opinion
that there is absolutely no danger in
our meeting in Lake Charles. And, for
your information, the letters from
these health authorities are reproduced
therein.
The Council of Education will meet in
the Majestic Hotel on Wednesday
April 12, at 8 p. m.
Very truly yours,
L. J. ALLEMAN,
Secretary, La. Teachers' Ass'n.
Mrs. Lydia Taylor and son Warren of
Zachery, La., arrived Monday after
noon for a visit with Mrs. E. M. Stew
art.
Mr. and Mrs, Asa Verret are the
proud parents of a fine baby boy which
arrived Wednesday to gladden their
home. Both mother and son are doing
nicely. The Journal extends congratu*
lations.
Sch o o l - P la y of
S or
ec
X, Y. O. AFFAIR R
Good Acting and Music
31 Characters
AT AUDITORIUM, MONDAY, APRIL 3
M15
Family Ticket 50 c. .` ingle Admission 25 c.
1 I
NOTICE
To TI[E 1 PITB-LIC
I thank you for' your past business and solicit your
future busine, .
We are larger than before;
You have no trouble to get in at the door.
Potatoes, Onions. Black Eyed Peas,
Pepper, Spices. Glinger and T'eas.
Bluing, Washing Powder. Starch and Lye:
Currents, Raisins, Mince Meat for Pie.
Meal, Flour, Crisco and Meats;
Hominy, Corn, Tomatoes and Beets.
Pure Vinegar, Pickles and Jam;
Breakfast Bacon, Wrapped Meat and Ham.
Tubs, Buckets, Washboards and Pans;
Lamp Globes, Lamp Rurners and Oil Cans.
Cigars, Tobacco and Cigaretts;
Chewing Gum and Candy. Oh, you bet.
The best Baking Powder you ever seen,
The name is K. C.
Just as we have always said
It is best to use Kimball's Bread.
If want the goods delivered at your door,
Just phone us-number thirty-four.
Delivery wagon, yes we have one,
And it will run from sun to sun.
Yours for Biz, and do not wait.
Just come round and investigate.
*Welsh Bakery & Groceiy
E. E. Kimball, Prop.
CAMPAIGN IS VIGO'OUS '"
TH8RUcHOUT TJlE P"M k io '
Pai
t tw
The \i~oqrous (,:mpliin throulhlullt ,
Jeffer7s,n Davi. plarlih wlwi be'gr'an trio
Monday in Jcnnmlr-~s andl coMll pletely se
coverling the enltire lari 1h amllie t' a lea
sucr'es: l dclose lihere Tlueday night, thl
when Ia I r. rgepreslenta tive a11dl r try of
enthlisiait;c aur(ienrce ;ithtz,!d at the wh
Aliditiritlll I to hear' I(,l L. I, . o.l, ; a, aý, , t
Ja.me.s I. aliley aid L.. Aistrin lºF nten tt th,
defend tile (causes ro . J:'t: I) o'ci y. Ioifl 1o
little dii.appointn.nt! was a:;:nift oi tlt
the abeme of Mr. Fon terot who was 1)(,
comllllel to retirn to his homlie at th1
Opelousas early Tuesday, he having a st,a
great miany lieinds mind ardent sup- as
porters in this ;ecit on whoil were air- i I,
xioiis to he:ir hiii on this particular ,
occasioin. Mr. F:tteiniut having been pp
schedtllled to spea;k in Fren'ch in his fP
abtsence the lion. Ji .. J. Robirt of ii;i
,Jennings was in!id'ueld till his numnber hii
Son the progir am . of
B It is nreliedsi e to .ay thete were a so
- good ianiy Pa rker'ie ini tihe audierce, in
and lots of womien and children, because at
º' everybody came. (We especially rmen- ed
tion the women andil children becaruse ji
n the Journal has been accused, in its l( (
n niention of the Parker mneeting, some i ;
r time since, of reporting that the audi- at
n ence was mostly women and children. th
d While the Journal hopes that it ex. th
presses itself clearly enough for the !m
n most dense to understand that is sup- ti,
V porting the democratic nominees, we at
have no animosity. In fact we are im- ri
bued with a spirit of fairness.) of
The meeting was called to order by in
Jno. H. Cooper, president of the parish al
police jury. With the chairman, pre- p1
)f siding officer and the speakers on the st
'r rostrum were loyal democrats from tl
'" neighboring precincts; aniirg them: s(
Mayor Jno. Gamble and Hon. Chas S. ol
Miller, of Jennings; J. Sheldon Toomer,
candidate for the district attorneyship a
h from Lake Charles; J. L. Doiron and pl
Oscar Aguilla d of Thornwell; Messrs. i
F. A. Arcenealx and Alcide Hebert Sr., ci
of Ward seven; Dr. C. A. Martin, Dr. B a
J. LaCour and A. R. Arceneaux of Web h ti
Mayor Gablert, presiding introduced tl
James J. Bailey the unopposed nominee s,
of the Democratic primary for the office t
of secretary of state. a
Mr. Bailey expressed much pleasure .
on account of the loyal support accord- zI
ed the party on their tour of Jefferson
Davis parish. He was thoroughly con- T
vinced that the Bull Moose movement a
in this parish was not as strong as it k
was reported to be, its main support c'
coming from a newspaper published at d
Jennings which was about the size of a
cigarette paper, dubbed "the hand- i
chief" which was born with the pre- s
sent campaign and would die April 18th. i
They were thoroughly convinced that
Pleasant u ould carry Jefferson Davis r
parish by a handsome majority S
Mr. Bailey acknowledged acquaint.
ance with Jno. M. Parker, knowing him
to be a gentleman of high standing
personally, but politically he was rot
ten beyond contemplation. He devoted
the greater part of his allotted time to
setting forth the excellent record of
Col. Pleasant. both in private and public
life. His record as Attorney General,
as member of the school board and the
other public welfare institutions forl
which he had striven.
Bailey's history of the progressive
nrrtv from birth to death, brought a
chill to many of those of questionable
political affiliation, some of them per
cenably shrinking in stature, as he
sounded the death knell of this move
ment. Probably they were asking
themselves whether they could consci
entiously follow their leader Into the
republican ranks.
He doubted that the people of Louisi.
ona would repeal the primary law en.
acted in 1904, and return to the gover* i
nor the political patronage which fol*
lows the appointment of all the state
officers.
Hon. L. E. Thomas, speaker of the
house of representatives delivered one
of the most interesting political adt.
dresses ever listened to by a Welsh
audience. Mr. Thomas is a broad.mind*
ed business man from North Louisiana,
a public speaker of considerable note.
well posted on the issues of day, full of
pleasing wit, he is a staunch democrat
who has a mission for the voters of the
state and has no trouble in expressing
it. His ready wit kept the audience
in good humor throughout the evening.
He paid some very nice, and of course
deserved tributes, to his audience, to
the town of Welsh, and spoke highly of
the parish of Jefferson Davis as a
whole.
Not being a candidate for any office
himself he is working solely in bebalf
;i l'ht janut's c l1iipa m:. ;,::d tlh, i':,.
Ii) i is i ) i e Itl' d liOtl .ac).
lit ,:,,.id thent \\-., Ino Ld,,ulMt l. ,.
holw the hct'tion ] wouli O; that 1Mi.
Par'lre ' would nt cirly ilne ofi the
tWenly nine t;;wishes ill north LI 1 i - 1 i C
troii tlhei ti'rd di'trict, wvith a tew i
scatteringl disgrunteleds in New Or. o
leans. "Tiile delmocraltic canliidates iln
the recent primary pulled 0 per cent
of the total electoral vote of the st;lt(,
kut
whi'e (C )i. tPleasant alone polled 60 per
lon
et ll. I mall not y,.t i'ready to bh'lleve
nil
t'i.1 I.oui ianans have sunk so lo\: in aU
iolit -..i niorals that they will vio, li i
their IP:lior as participants in the I
l)enici(ratic primary, by repudiating
their ownvi selected nolinee aInd
stalndall;learer, especially when he is P]
as cle:an and respected a citizen as Col.
Rflnfli (. Pleasant'."
Mir. Thtlnlris has known Ruflin G.
Pleasant al his life they having bothli
grown t( :nianhood and comie into pro- .it
millenli!i 1t011 Ii Unioni parish, and says ol Mr
hiln: "(',hlonel Pleasant is a native son
ofiL iinil,!,ta , ornl and reariedil Oil her
soil, a'u idelenti lied with her in every
interi t. He is a distingiuished gradu- tin
ate of oiur State University and has her
educational interests close a;t heart. He
was lhentcolonel ot the First Loui lana
Regiment during the Spanish-American sty
war. lie has filled the office of Assist-do
ant Attorney General for four years, dM
then as head of that department during el
the present administration, and is a lbo
mender of the State Board Liqluida -ho
tion. He is a man of moral courage SC
and backbone and will dare to do the 01
right thing because it is right in spite TI
of all obstacles. He is a man of sterl- Dl
ing worth and integrity and has the',.(
ability to make good. He has made no TI
pledges, trades or dickers in order to W
teculre his nomination at the hands of N1
the people. There is absolutely no rea- H,
son why he should not receive the vote TI
of every democrat in this state." IEl
Mr. Thomas believes in and urgently
advises close adherence to the princi- pi
pals of true Jeffersonian Democracy. D
In discussing the record of the Demo
cratic party in this state he cited
among many accomplishments: "It is
the party that has always represented b,
the masses and not the classes; that has
stood for protecting all and granting
favors to none; the only party that can
and does guarantee white supremacy,
which it expects tohnaintain at all haz
zards."
A very "Pleasant" speaker, Mr.
Thomas resorted frequently to little
witticisms, some of them quite pointed,
keeping the audience jubilent and in a
constant expectancy through his ad*
dress.
In the absence of L. Austin Fontenot
Hon. Jno. Robira of Jennings made a
short address in French. He was in.
troduced by Dr. B. J. LaCour.
Visitors who were present from all
parts of the parish brought strong as
suran:ce of loyal sulpport.
Tie spirit of Parkerism is waning to
a great extent in this parish since the
lines of the issue are being drawn
close, and as the election nears the true
status is dawnmg on those democrats
Swho have felt it their duty to disregard
i the party nominee.
, Attention Democrats!
e ."Louisiana Expects Every:Democrat
'; to Do His Duty." Election Day, Tues
day, April 18th.
e Do not fail to go the polls and stamp
a the looster. The eye, of the nation
e are watching us right now. Will we
- endose President Wilson's splendid
e administration, or will we endorse
Roosevelt and republicanism?
R Col. R. G. Pleasant made an open and
- manly fight and every loyal democrat I
e go to the polls and vote the ticket.
To vote for straight democracy, stamp
i. the rooster.
- HAZEL OAWN IN
"ONE OF OUR GIRLS"
I. One of our girls," by Bronson
mh Howard the celebrated drama
d. which so closely interweaves the
a, interests of two mighty nations, pre.
e. sents Hazel Dawn, the artistic little
of star who recently achieved a great
at stage triumph in the title of "The Pink
ne Lady." In "One of Our Girls" Hazel
ig Dawn portrays the stellar role, other.
ce wise Kate Shipley. The subject teems
g. with patriotic interest, and the thrill.
se ing situations, combined with the in.
to spring sacrifice of the plucky and quick.
of witted American girl in behalf oh her
a little French cousin, furnish all the ele.
ments necessary to the successful
ce screen drama which will be at the
lf Auditorium, P'riday, April 7th.
THE PRIMMEY PLEDGE
'The total vot, t Lt1 u:- . evei.
ract'e almd det' liptl i I-. . PI'+t'.t
saIt. inl the 1rinl v . ie  ' . . , .l.
ii ileal' tll ~ 'iitV t,: t,: ,,' t' LI
voters of the st'1te.
To win, Mr. J,hl I. 'u: r imu:st
persuade Democ'rats to Ihlit ti1:vilt
of the Primlary .l'ctl on. iE :.y v t
knew; Mr. Parker wats to he at t: t't
lol helore tht' prlo ' :in.
tinder .uch rirtl'Ull.,,t e. +, al , I10
ably bolt the )e-niocrati ,!i...<. t
will do so it he will stop t1, ,,ii:!i,
In answer to Iri'Or1.is,:veti.l t )llhi tilln
ariguments, we quote M:'. .i!n I..
Parker and the Suprlemte C~tii1lI of
Louisiana; we cite Mr. E. B. !Duiauso n,
and I'resident \Vilson.
Mr. John M. Parker. t
In his speeches at IurtIo:. Ainite
City and Rnston hetfore the pri:na'y,
Mr. Pdrker saild:
"I do not want anyi Dleiuct't, :1tlw
participate in the primary tao "vte l(,r
-me. If I ain elected (Governr . 1 want
the election to come to "me cl an."
e Mr. Dubuisson.
Asked at Eunice it he had made these
statements, Mr. Parker ducked and
dodged, and passed the question on to
Mr. E. B. 1)ubuisson, who made a very
elaborate argument in justification of
a bolting the primary. One little tact,
however, SUBMARINED MR. DUBHUIS
e SON'S ARGUEMENT AND BLEW IT
e OFF THE FACE OF THE EARTH.
e THAT LITTLE FACT WAS THAT MR.
I- DUBUISSON WAS CAREFUL NOT TO
VOTE FOR GOVERNOR HIMSELF IN
' 'THE PRIMARY. KNOWING HIE
:o WOULD NOT SUPPORT THE NOMI,
A NEE, MR. DUBLISSON WAS TOO
7' HONORABLE TO PARTICIPATE IN
re THE ELECTION FOR STATE OFFIC
ERS. When Republican-Progressives
point to what Mr. Dubuisson said. WE
- POINT TO WHAT MR. DUBUISSON
1" DID.
xt The Supreme Court of Louisiana.
is The Supreme Court hai been quoted
'by the Republican-Progressive speak
M ISE' ttl 1)1)r 1""'
"IE, , HY\ AN EP .\SS lI'ltRMl'VIA.( If
Aie, ,T IIS I MPISSIII TL" I'O AIS A
ANI) It" " . N,)I.I',E, IN II)NO! TO
SUIIORT TIliE NE.MINLON TIlE MAN
\ I IO lAN NO)T lIE \lI') I.! A PRO
ISE W lPresident Wilson
lElI) 1 AN EXPRFSS PIRO)MLIISE. 11
Ihat hiue ion )is it 'il' ia n(d 1 (i ithe
in New J'I rseyA . Neith., P l . te illon or
"rie, IT I er IM1')SSIILt: TOi OITAIN A
Ree. T Phe . 1refused L to sup'ort a hand
NCISOLEL EO IIONDATION IN Til ETO
IIREPORT TIAT PN(UAIESIDENT .LSON
EVER HOLTED THE NOMINEE OF A
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY.
President Wilson.
Pubicity SubiCommitteie Democratic.
Campaigson Committe a may oemiee
JAM:ES A. WIIAMVS, ChairmanT
i Nessrs. John Jesey. Neobira, ChasMr. S. Mil-on or
Mr, MByan ever bolted aC P ittre, n. o.
nriee. ,hey Arnette, W. B. Clark, La Lnd
ichared , Od Cnvention noe Isaac F otenot,
tended the bigs delocratW is alln in
two ocasihons bolted a i.niht.
Mry. In a telegram of March 26th, Se.
retary Tumulty wied from busashinessg
ton:
AIBSOLUTELY NO FOUNDATION TO
REPORT THAT PRESIDENT WILSON
EVER BOLTED THE NOMINEE OF A
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY.
Publicity Sub.Committee Democratic
Campaign Committee,
JAM ES A. WILLIAMS, Chairman.
Messrs. John J. Robira, Chas. S. Mil
ler, Mayor John Gamble, C. Pittre, I. R.
Price, W. P. Arnette, W. B. Clark, L. L.
Richard, Od. Couner Isaac Fontenot,
and A. J. Bourgeois of Jennings at
tended the big democratic rally in
Welsh Tuesday night.
Mr. J. M. Booze of Roanoke was in
Welsh Wednesday on business.
SPECIAL
FEATURE
Take the Children with You
Auditorium, Friday, April 7th.
Hazel Dawn, in
"ONE OF OUR GIRLS"
Friday, April 14th.
"F E ) () IR A"
MMMMaMMxxxxxxxx E14'xxxK
Model Grocery,
Will soon be here and we are prepared to serve
you with the largest and best assortment qf
Eateir andies ad
ever offered in Welsh. We hope to make this
Easter one long to be remembered.
There will be a Special Prize Given
Away, and every Child will receive
some little Gift.
COME AND SEE OUR WINDOW EXT WEEK
j P.HJ2+LOODRE1 AU
PHONE 14
2IxaxxxxxxxPxMx XuaxxVI30Ixxx3Kxx
