CELINA
THE RESERVOIR CITY THE
BIGGEST LITTLE TOWN ON
EARTH TH E HUB OF THE UNI.
VER8E.
CURB
And Gutter Petition Presented
By FuStcn St. Residents
BOND ISSUE FOR WATER WORKS
EXTENSION REFERRED TO THE
FINANCE COMMITTEE
Council met In regular session lust
Tuesday nlKlit Willi all members present.
President protom Rerit.sch opened the
meeting. Toward thu close of the session
Mayor Bcranton arrived and took the
cbulr.
A petition wan presented by residents
of Kant Fulton street, asking to have a
cement curb und gutter placed on the
street from Main eust to Cory Avenuo In
Kim llorna addition. Tho petition wan
accepted and referred to tho street com
mittee. Chulrman Belcrsdoi fcr of the Sewer
committee stated that the motor at the
dlsposul plant had been put Into opera
tion, but that tho pump was not raising
the amount of Bewugu It should.
The mayor and clerk were authorized
to enter Into a contruct with Frank W.
Miller to sprinkle streets the coming sea
son for $75.
.Minus Fast complained of water con
ditions neur his home In the northwest
end of town. The matter was left with
the street committee for Investigation.
An ordance declaring it necessary to Is
sue bonds In tho sum of $25,000 to en
large and Improve thu water works plant
und extend wuter lines whs read. On a
motion to place the ordinance on a sec
ond reading a tie vote was recorded and
Mayor Scrunton tabled the matter by vot
ing no. He then referred the ordinance
to the finance committee for further in
vestigation. ... ,
lionds of J. F. Greek and John Mohr,
of this city, and the Jasperson Supply
Co., of St. .Marys, as plumbers to license
them tupping the new sanitary sewer
system were read and accepted. Council
did not take very anxiously to accepting
the bond of Jasperson, but after state
ments that they only Intended doing work
for the Alersmun Bros.-Brandts Co. which
they had already undertaken the bond
was accepted.
A communication was read from the
State Industrial commission relative to
necessary changes In the opera-house If
council Intended to use It for a motion
picture show house.
The council didn't seem very unani
mous on the proposition to lease the opera
house for such a purpose and despite fa
vorable comment on the subject by May
or Scranton. who very strongly favors the
project, no action was taken.
A communication was also read from
the factory and work-shop division of .the
commission ordering that employes or
the light and water plant he not worked
more than eight hours. The communi
cation was referred to the board of Pub
lic Affairs. ... ,,
Manager Raudabitugh, of the Celina
Hand, addressed council relative to tho
usual appropriation for weekly band con
certs the coming summer. The matter
was referred to the resolution committee.
Council then adjourned until 7 o'clock
this evening, when the water-works ex
tension bond tssue will again tie taken
up.
ANOTHER NOTION GONE WRONG
It has always been the notion of the
average citizen that the Courts were es
tablished for the administration of Jus
tice and that at each tribunal all men
were equal before the law. Old fashion
ed! Just listen. Only a few days ago
a husband and wife who had quarreled
in Darke county made up their differ
ences and agreed to withdraw a divorce
proceeding that was pending. They went
hand In hund to the Judge and told him
that they had kissed and made up and
wanted the case dismissed. Very well!
Hut along comes the lawyer in the pro
ceedings. Addressing the wise, learned
and fair-minded Court, he informed that
puragon of Jurisprudence that his fee was
n't paid and humbly asked that the de
cree of dismissal be suspended and not
entered until he got his money. And It
was done! Now the wonder Is whether,
the coin remaining unpaid, the barrister
would have gone forward and caused the
legal separation of the pulr. With some
Courts, yes! Hut the fee was paid, and
therefore the speculation will continue In
definitely. Falkner in Cincinnati Enquir
er. HURRAH OR BRUNO
Betzel kept spilling the Brown's beans.
His double In the second scored Cruise
and himself when Pratt threw Sisler's
brilliant relay wild to Hartley's head. Bet
zel made a dandy throw on Lavan's
grounder to the deep Held over second in
the fifth, and the crowd roared when he
stuck out Ills glove and held demon's
burning low liner in the eighth inning.
Two doubles and two runs attest thut
Betzel was some good at the bat and on
the bags. St. Louis Globe Democrat's
correspondent on Cardinal-Brown game
played on the 26th.
The Cardinals won the game 4 to 1.
Betzel secured two runs and two two
baggers out of three times at bat. lie
also got two put-outs and four assists,
errorless.
The Globe-Democrat featured him in
three separate headlines and pictured him
attempting to steal home in the sixth In
ning. COMPILING INFORMATION FOR NEW
DIRECTORY
The Wllmer Atkinson Company of Phil
adelphia, Pa., publishers of the Farm
Journal, are at present engaged In com
piling Information for a new uirectroy of
Mercer county. This directory, when com
pleted, should fill a long felt want as there
Is no complete directory of this county on
the market. The price is so reasonable
that every family in the county can own
a copy. Trained men are at present cov
ering the county taking the information
for it.
W. S .Taylor, the county manager, has
opened an olllce In the Odd Fellow Tem
uln and will be glad to talk to anyone In
regard to the directory. He is a hustling
young man and wen acquainted witn tne
worn wnicn is ueins unuui tumie.
CELINA HAD BETER WAKE UP
Three of the Drlnclpal streets of Cold
rlr..t Uupnmnrfi an' I'lrut
streets will in all probability be paved the
coming summer, t-emions ior uie pav
ing of these Improvements have been oil
ed with the village council and referred
to the stret committee.
Tim uiiiittirte- nronertv owners are al
most unanimous In the move to have the
streets paved. Every owner on Sycamore
street signed the petition, all but two on
First street signed and only six refused
to come across on Market. .
How about the Logan street road, In
Celina, Ohio, U. H. A. r
J. L. Wills, of Montezuma, who had
announced a sale of his household goods
for April 6, has called off the sale.
Last Tuesday he purchased the John
Moore property In that village and ex
pects to do some real estate business In
and arouna jviomezuma.
The following letter was received this
week from Weber & Miller, Center, ino.
. ftnnta 1: i
We were lucky during the electrical
storm which missed us about 15 miles.
Tt done considerable damaire in several
counties. We like our new home. So
please send us The Weekly Democrat
then we can read home news again.
An exchange that seems to know says:
It Is said that 1,000 gallons of castor
oil destined to Germany via Holland fail
ed to get through. It Is very seldom that
castor oil falls to make its journey when
once it starts on Its way.
min Inol .......111... II f fill. MAIttlina T llf.
,... will tin held Aurll 1. 191K at
the township hall, Dr. U. W. Kay, being
to loturer.
H
Volume 20, Number
A CONFESSION
1 am the greutest criminal In history.
I have killed mine men limn have (nih il
111 all the wins of thu world.
I have made millions of homes unhap
py. 1 have transformed ambitious youths In
to hopeless parasites.
1 destroy the weak und weaken the
strong. .
I make the wise man a fool and tramp
le tlie tool Into his lolly.
The abandoned wile knows me; the
hungry children know me; the parents,
whose child has bowed their heads in sor
row, know mu.
I live ijr 4 ho consent of thu Christian
(.') vote."
1 am ALCOHOL.
Ohio 1'nnltentlary News.
NOT TOO LATE TO PRUNE FRUIT
TREES
Trunin of fruit trees may bo continued
until Into In May If necessary, says Prof.
Wendell l'addock of tho Horticultural De
partment, Ohio State I'nlverslty. Even
after the leaves begin to show, remove
limbs, so that sunlight may filter into nil
parts of the trees. Trof. ruddock urges
all archaiillsts to apply a dormant spiny
at this time especially If the tries have
Just been pruned. The spray will aid In
destroying the scale which Is more preva
lent than usual und also retard the spread
of the apple scab.
SCHOOLlYS
OF MERCER COUNTY TO BE IN
STRUCTED ON STOCK JUDGING
AND HOG GROWING, 10-14.
The Ohio State I'nlverslty will send an
instructor to Mercer county to give les
sons on Stock Judging and Pig Crowing,
during the week of April 10 to II. His sub
jects on Stock Judging will he draft
horses, beef cuttle and lard hogs.
I'lnces and dales have been arranged
as follows:
Celina, April 10, afternoon.
Neptune, April 11, forenoon.
.Meudon, April 11, afternoon.
Kockford, April 12. forenoon.
Washington township II. S., April 12.
afternoon.
Ft. Recovery, April 1.1. lorenoon.
St. Henry, April 1.1, afternoon.
Coldwnter, April II, forenoon.
We hope to see every school hoy take
advantage of these lessons. The Univer
sity and the fair hoard are at quite an
expense hoping that by this method the
boys and girls will leave our schools, much
better prepared to meet the present and
future conditions of the times.
W. A. HAMILTON.
FORMER CELINA GIRL IN HAT
CONTEST
A design for black sailor hat of mllan
straw trimmed wth a band of black und
white polka dot ribbon und a porcupine
qull pompom Is featured by the Chicago
Herald on Its fashion page today, in con
nect ion u.' It h the hat contest announced In
the Sunday edition. The design Is by
Mrs. K. C. Iverson, of this city, and the
seventh design to be published by the pa
per. OI me aesigns siiimiiiieu, one w oi
lie CIIOSCU US Hie mwni. . . 1 1 be. , ......
designer will be given a hat made in ac
cordance, with her instructions. Elkhart,
Und.) Truui.
Mrs. Iverson, mentioned above as the
designer of one of tho hats featured In
the Chicago Herald contest was formerly
Miss Pearl Fanger, at one time a resident
of this city and well known here.
STILL DOING BUSINESS AT EIGHTY
THREE There Is one sturdy pioneer citizen of
St. Murvs who seems to hold his own In
spite of his advanced years und the hard
ships which encompass the pathway ot
mortal life. Reference Is had to D. Arms
trong, the oldest living native born citi
zen of this municipality and the oldest
citizen still engaged In active business.
On September 28 this year. Mr. Armstrong
will attain his 83rd birthday, andjstill,
when you see him moving about with such
alacrity, you would not take him to be
..-., II.. In I,, with tho Inrk In
ovei niAij. Jiv- i ' - - ---
the morning and at his place of business
long tielore many oi me younger men
have broken their slumbers. Such has
I.. tl... I.....-.I.I..1.IO nil., fn,l fill, Im Of Ills
business career extending through the ex
traordinary period of fifty-six years. He
went lnio ousmess iur iiimscii imi.r. in
lXOO, and for several years prior to that
.1 1... l,...r In tl... ilt'lT ITIUlHv
lime I1U W.13 U 111 II'" v.. j
store of the late Joseph ICelsey. St.
Marys Leader.
TOWN TOPICS
Atr nnd Mrs. Jos. Heckler are the par
ents of a baby girl born on the 22nd.
The Indies of the Lutheran church will
hold a market at the Luudahn & Mesar
vey grocery to-morrow (Saturday;.
a inint recltnl will be triven bv the Ce
lina and St. Marys Choral societies at the
Opera-house In this city on Thursday ev
ening, April b.
Hill, for commissioner; Baker, for
Treasurer, and Stubbs, for Prosecutor,
were among the candidates to make of-
llctal announcements in ino ueuwuiu
this week.
nllnn If,.! le -C, A M conferred the
tV.it.rl .lit.rr,. uniin thrf.fi CJ1 n il tilli t OK. B. G.
Gilberg, "Dr. Kulph Sehlenker and Romeo
Deitsch, Wednesday alternoon nnu even
ing. A substantial six o'clock dinner was
served.
Mr. and Mrs. Enoch Schlosser, former
residents of this city, have moved from
Coldwater to Phiua, where the former will
engage In the meat business. Mr. scn
losser for a number of years conducted a
meat market at Coldwater.
For the benefit of the church the La
dles Aid of the Tabor church will give
a bake sale at Deltsch's grocery to-morrow
(Saturday), at 10 o'clock, consisting
of bread, pies, cakes, crulls, ciiiamon rolls,
buns, cookies, cneese saiau.
Misses Lola und Mabel Brandon, Enst
Livingston street, were hostesses to the
i i.' ij li.l. I.,ut Mimtlnv pvuninrr Af
ter the sewing hour progressive dominoes
were enjoyea, wnn iuvur laiuui, iu juiob
es Ruth Estry, Nina Cowan, Lulu Orr and
Mrs. Wm. Brown.
Mesdames W. W. Entice, S. L. Evans
nnd E. E. Stephenson were at Lima last
Monday as delegates from the Celina so
ciety attending the district meeting of the
Women's Foreign Missionary Society.
Bishop Warren, a missionary from India,
was the principle speaker at the assem
bly. Lou Wourms, an employee of the furn
iture factory, lost the thumb of his left
hand Inst Sntiirdiiv mornintr. when he ac
cidentally caught the hund in a band saw.
His presence of mind probably saved the
loss of the entire hand. He was taken to
the Otis hospital where the wound was
dressed.
Frank Gross, for several years an em
ployee at the local furniture factory, has
gone to Shelby, where he has accepted
a position with a furniture factory In that
city. He last week sold his residence
property, on West Anthony street to Ru
dolph Simon, who will move into It, just
as soon as Mr. Gross can get moved out.
COLDWATER LAD BREAKS LEG
Raphael Bernard, the nine year old son
of Mrs. Elizabeth Bernard, of Coldwater,
broke his left leg Just above the ankle
last Monday noon. He was attempting
to catch a chicken which had escaped
from a coup. The foul flew onto a bun
dle of wire and the lad in attempting to
reach the chicken slipped and the bund
le of wire rolled onto his leg.
Dr. E. Baldwin, of the Grant hospital,
Columbus, was called here Tuesday to
look after the conditioln of Mrs. Wm.
Cron, who is very ill. Dr; Baldwin re
cently operated on Mrs. Cron. Nurse
Miss Myrtle Loughrldge was placed in
charge of the case Wednesday morning.
Use Hanford'8 Balsam for all flesh
wound.
XT XT
(LJtiJbl
KtUbllihxi M V 115.
51
WELL
Drilled
in By Celina Oil
Gas Company
SAID TO BE COOO FOR 30 OR 40 BAR.
RELS IF IT REACHES EXPECTA
TIONS, OTHERS 00 DOWN
The oil well on the John Pax farm, two
miles southwest of this city, drilled by
Kelley Bros., the well known drillers of
this city, on a lease of a new company
of local business men, known as the Ce
lina Oil At Gas Co., came In lust Friday
and made a good showing of oil. The
well was shot at 12:10 last Saturday noon.
Tne well lies between the old and new
channels of Heaver, a half mile west ot
Coldwatur road, and because of the wet
condition of thu ground the company has
been uniiblu to gi t their oil tank ami pipe
lilies on to the lease to begin pumping,
and consequently It Is hard to say what
the new well will develop, but the drillers
eel it Is good lor 3D ol HO barrels.
If thu hole ields any returns Ht all af
ti r being pumped a while, the company
will dull several more wells on the lease.
BERT AN
OLD HAND
BUSINESS
AT THE
It. Bert Morrison, East Fulton street,
civil engineer nnd road contractor, hit
with us last Monday a photogrupu, Uken
lust Suturduy at the shooting of tho oil
well on thu John Fax farm, two miles
south we.-t of town. Bert was formerly
in the photograph business In Rluckcrcck
township, and leurncd the ml ol snaping
the wells as lliey were being shot during
thu big oil boom mar Chattanooga, a
number of years ago. lie secured an ex
cellent picture of the shot on tho 1'ax
farm
PREPARE PROGRAM
FOR CHAUTAUQUA
A part of the program given out by the
Chautauqua company which they decided
to purchased for the coming year, at
their meeting last Tuseday alternoon, Is
as follows:
Brewer Musical Entertainers.
For first Sunday Chicago Quartette
anil Father Collins.
Chicago operatic Company.
Dixie Jubilee Singers.
Stanley Krebs.
.Swiss Alpine Voddlers.
P. .Marlon Slmms.
While Hussars Band.
Cap's Orchestra,
William Spurguun.
English Opera Company.
Play-baU Clark and Florentine Com
pany. PASTOR STRICKEN
WITH PARALYSIS
Rev. Eisnagle, pastor of the M. E.
csurch at Coldwater, sustained a stroke
of paralysis at the close of services at his
church last Sunday morning. Carl Plum
inur, student of Ohio Weslyan University,
delivered the sermon and Just as he was
ready to close the services, Rev. Eisna
gle sustained the stroke, which affected
his right side and rendered him uncon
scious. He rallied Monday morning and
was able to move his arm.
He has been slowly recovering and it la
believed will fully reguin his strength.
Rev. Lance ol the M. E. church, ol this
city, went to Eiasius Inst Sunday utter
noon where he expected to assist Rev.
Eisnagle in the afternoon services. As
he was ready to satrt he received word
telling of the condition of Rev. Eisnagle,
so lie took charge of th esei vices alone.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF
BOARDS EDUCATION
The time Is at hand when boards of
education are thinking of selecting their
corps of teachers for 1D10-I7k An enor
mous responsibility rests in this one act
and members of boards of education
should look well to their duties and vote
for the good of posterity. The best
teaching talent obtainable is none too
good, no fault of the teacher in many
instances however and a few dollars
should not be allowed to stand between
a community and a good teacher, such as
one who has had the proper training or
one who lias proven his worth. It is a
ucplorable fact that this is too often the
case, being doubly deplorable as it worns
both against thu community hiieing the
toucher and the teacher himself. The
it u suffers hccaiise a -ood teach
,.r this u.nni should he capitalized is
,h., mi uf nnv tirice. It might also here
be stated that a poor teacher is dear at
any price, in some instances possible ev
en worse than none at all. The teacher
suffers because if tie Is of the right sort
he needs those extra dollars to help keep
up his efficiency und if possible, to in
crease it. Boards of education have not
been doing their part in making teaching
the profession that should be, In thut in
...,in inutiineex thev have been holding
down teachers salaries thus making
teaching an unreinuneratlve occupation
f,.r ni .it uhn would have made teach
ing a profession and life work. At this
juncture we hear the cry, "lack of funds.
This Is too thin, as in many instances
public money is being carelessly and
nowtlvmlv wasted bv boards of education
snd other public olllcials to an amount
that would more than make up this defi
ciency, if the people would see to it that
some of this waste were turned into i..e
chunnuls of education, tney would soon
see a class of men und women brought
up that would be able and would cope
with this evil. In other words the natur
al sequence of affairs is, education, agi
tation, then legislation Why go on mak
ing our common schools a training school
for the beginner in teaching? Better't'll
the salary and give these pedagogical as
pirants a goal to work for financially as
well as the time to be of some good to
humanity in services, and not give them
the Job until they are qualified. Yes,
there are some drawbacks to this plan,
but the advantages would soon totally
eclipse the disadvantages. Are you satis
fled to send your child to a boy or girl
who has been fortunate or unfortunate
enough to make passing grades in the
teachers' examination and take the chan
ces of him or her knowing how to in
struct? Mnnv brilliant scholars never
could make teachers. It Is encouraging
to know that our school laws are being
adjusted in a way directed to eliminate
the non-trained teacher, and may the
time soon be at hand when the elimina
tion will be more complete.
Contributed by EX-TEACHER
The Jefferson township Board of Edu
cation met In the township room last Fri
day evening, with County Superintendent
Cotterman, District Superintendent Pogue
and the following board members present:
Springer, Wolfe, Lincoln, Dock and Slus-
StIt was decided to pay all the teachers
$55 per month, excepting Albert Maliek,
who in to receive S50.
The following teachers were hired for
the ensuing school term of 1916 and 1917:
Albert Malick District No. 1.
Golda Enyart District No. 5.
Emma Karr District No. 6.
Ralph Jordan District No. 7.
Edna Kerns District No. 8.
Floss Buck District No. 10.
William Freeman was hired for Dis
trict No. 9 providing they have school.
TAKES THE SORENESS OUT
For bruises and reducing lnfiamatlon
Hanford's Balsam of Mvrrh is uneuuall
ed. It first takes the soreness out and
then heals. -
NA D
Kuwi lh-Cliin. i 'i.,.po.t.rhc. ttoa-lMi mil mWm
Car tin & Carlin, Publiihen
WASHINGTON TP. LECTURE COURSE
The fourth number of the Washington
town hip ledum course will be U in. O.
Winkler, ilu in a cliiiiucler arllnl und a
led liter. ,
.Mr. Winkler enters In to a sympathetic
umli istuinling with tlm characters he por
trays In u wonderful way and for the tune
he Is Hie character he represents.
Mr. Winkler Is an artist all the time.
Ills woik does not savor ol the cheap
slime, but nlwus Is subtle and refined.
lie Is a young man of marked ability
and will please any audience lieioru which
ne appears. His piogium Is ruro III Its
beauty and power and is willmul un ex
ception the best of Its kind.
l oioe and spend a pleasant n Well as
prolltable evening with him at Washing
ton tp. High school, Wednesday evening,
April Oth.
STILLBARGERS DISPOSE OF SOME
HIGH-CLASS PERCHERONS
Veteran horseman, John Stlllbarger and
son, last week disposed of four Percher
on mures, two of them yearling, coming
two eiir olds; om- Iwo-yvur-old, coming
three', und one three-ear-olil, coming
four, to a foreign horse buver lor the neat
sum of c 1 1 Mi John snvs thev were worth
more than that, but he had no need of
tllein
holse
Looks like It pays to lulsu ood
yet.
GUESSER FOSTER
ON APRIL WEATHER
Foster announces thut the next dis
turbance will reach the Pacific coast on
about March 31 slope by close of April 1,
central vulleys April 2 and 4. Eastern sec
tions 6. Warm wave will cross Pacific
slope about March 111, central valleys on
Apill 2, Eastern sec., Apr. 4. Cool wave
will cross Puclllc slope about April 3, cen
tral valleys C, Eastern sections 7. This
storm will probably pass through the
Southern status and then Noitheastward
so that It will afTect neurly the whole of
this continent. It Is expected to bo the
greatest storm of April und very import
ant In the way of crop weather. Gener
al and heavy rains are expected from .
The rain fall for the coining montti win
be much heavier In the South tlmn In tho
North. The disturbance the first week
of April will be the biggest storm of tho
week und very dangerous in many parts
of the country. The cold wave follow
ing will produce frosts in many states of
the North.
MADE THEM THINK OF
CYCLONE BACK IN 1886
Many Portland and Jay county residents
the older ones especially on Wednesday
morning recalled, vividly, the cyclone of
the night of May 14. lUbS. nearly thirty
years ago .that like the one of Tuesday
night narrowly missed the c'ty of Port
land proper, but swept down to the north
east of Portland and laid bare fields and
fim-sts. razing buildings in Its path, to
a point as fur east as the Great I.akes,
lieing worse however, from a couple of
miles northwest of Portland to Celina.
Ohio. A number of farm residences, most
of them being log structures, were com
pletely demolished by the hurricane, all
of the territory northeast of Portions
swept by the Tuesday night storm was
damaged by the cyclone of thirty years
g.io. Portland. Ind. Sun.
WILL OPEN BIDS
ON TPRIL 7 FOR FORTY-TWO STATE
ROAD CONTRACTS, INVOLVING
MILLION AND HALF
State Highway Commissioner Cowan
will open bids April 7 on 42 state roud
contracts, contemplating the construction
of more than 94 miles of various types of
roads in 30 counties of Ohio, at an esti
mated cost of l, lt;ti.7f4. one of the larg
est lettings in the history of the highway
department. ,
Commissioner Cowan says that the size
of this contract letting und Its early date
attests the interest and co-operation of
the counties of the state in highway con
struction. . .
"We expect to let contracts at close In
tervals until our entire program for 1.116
is under way," he said. 'With reasonably
good weather this year, we hope to com
plete GU miles of new road construction
in addition to at leust l.Oou miles of flrst
class road repairing. With poor weuther
conditions last year, we built 36U miles
of new roads and repaired UOu miles.
TELEPHONE CASE UNDER ADVISE
MENT The Case of the Celina & Mercer county
Telephone Co. vs. The Union-Center
Telephone Co., an action to enjoin the
latter from operating a telephone plant
in Mention and Union and Center town
ship, which has been In progress before
Commo 1'leas Judge luylon for almost
two weeks was concluded Wednesday ut
ternoon, the tinul arguments being finish
ed about hull past two o'clock. Sixty
five witnesses were heard. The court
took tlie case under advisement.
ARBOR AND BIRD
DAY BOOK INTERESTING
A publication put forth at this season of
the year of very great Interest is the Ohio
Arbor and Bird Duy Annual, for 1916 a
copy of which has been supplied by Coun
ty Superintendent S. Cotterman to every
teacher In Mercer county.
Most fascinatinir are the contents, com
piled this year by Anna s. winters loge
Si.1. ,.IH. PViinU W. Miller and J. L. Cllf
ton, former Superintendents of Public In
struction, tho iuttor a lew years ago su
perintendent of the Mendon schools.
minder that tiisi prolific rose should be
planted und used to adorn every rural
scliool in Mercer county, uwauso
tinted Dorothy riotously grows and bios
u,nu whether or not vou give her con
..t..it utirl ennmnnfonshin
Then the story ol Mercer county s in m
patron saint, 'Johnny Appleseed.' is re
...i.i in rvti,m nn.i there are Ohio birds
and Ohio trees and Ohio flowers sufBicent
to convert every omo ooy ana gin hilu
bird and flower lovers, und tree worship
pers as we all should be, for were not the
groves God's first temples?
But the Annuul is in the hunds of the
teachers and It is presumed that every
progressive teacher In old Merccr.wherein
grow so many grand trees, lovely shrubs
and native vines in every woodland haunt,
is enough of disciple of Pan to use the
Annuals to whet tne lmeresi ana curios
ity of every boy and girl in nature's out
put ,
ILL AT INFIRMARY WITH DIPTH
ERIA Mary Shaller, a young girl whose home
was formerly near Tamah, is ill with rilp
therla a tt lie County Infirmary. Matron
Mrs ndrew Schunck went to Lima last
Saturday and took the child from the
Children's Home there, bringing her to
this city, with the intention of transferr
ing her to the Delaware home. The tot
took eck Monday morning, and Wednes
day a serious case of diptlieria developed.
She has been placed in strict quarantine
and all due precautions are being taken
at the Institution to prevent the spread
of the disease. Mr. and Mrs. Schunck's
three children Mary, Magdalena and
Bernadina who are attending school in
this city, were not exposed and they are
staying in town during the quarantine.
Fred Miller, South Ash street, has re
signed his position as efficiency man at
the furniture factory, and, with his fam
ily, Is preparing to move to Saginaw,
Mich., where he has accepted a more lu
crative position. Mr. Miller has made
manv friends during his stay in this city,
I who will regret to learn bis leavng.
EM
OCRA
Celina,
D E ATI
Lays Heavy Hand on Many
Well Known Families
EX-COMMISSIONER ISAAC KISER IS
SUDDENLY CALLED ANTHONY
SCHUERMAN AMONG LIST
Ex-County Commissioner I. N. Klsor
died at four o'clock yseterday morning at
his home on West Livingston street, fol
lowing an lllneiis of only a few days.
IJeuth was duo to pneumonia, which fol
lowed hastily upon an attack of tho gripe.
He was up and around until last Satur
day. Heceased was horn In Center township,
Juno 8, 1NIJ, where he lived until he
moved to this city after assuming thu of
fice of County Conimlssloiner In l'JHli.
He was married to Jennie Welch, Doc
ember 3, 1 ST 1 und she with their five
children, as follows, survive: Mrs. Eva
Sniivi My, of Center township, Mrs. Myr
tle Stanberry. of Struthers, Ohio; Mrs.
Kintz Roebuck, of this city; Elza, at
home, and Mrs. Bonnie Dick, of Lima.
Deceased was an active Democrat nnd
before serving two terms as Commiss
ioner was township trustee for fifteen
veurs, a member of the township school
board for eighteen years, and for six years
whs u member of the Board ol Innrmiiry
Directors. Mr. Kiser held the second
deed ever recorded for the Kiser farm in
Center township. The first deed for the
land was granted his maternal grandfa
ther Eli Vest, and bears the signature of
('resident Martin Van Buren,, uaied In th
year 1M7.
He was a member of the Celina I. O. O.
F. lodge, who will have charge of the
funeral.
i'uiire.il services will be held Sunday,
but the place und dellnlte hour hud not
beell llxed last night.
MRS. EMMA DEITRICH, AGED 64
Mrs. Emma Deltrlch, aged 64 years, died
it her homu on Hoyng street. Citizens
addition, at 8 o'clock last Saturday night,
following a lingering illness of cancer of
the stomach. ,
lieceused was born at Mercer In 152.
t?6 she was united in marriage to Char
les Deitrich, who preceeded her in death
a year ago. They moved to this city sev
eral years ago. She is survived by one
son, Glenn, au employe of the furniture
fuctroy.
Funeral services were held lust Tues
day afternoon at the Bethany Evangeli
cal church, interment ut North Grove
cemetery.
MRS. WILLIAM J. HOEL, AGED 66
Mrs. William J. Hoel, aged 66 years,
died at her home. Just west of this city,
lust Suturduy morning following a linger
ing illness. . .
Deceased was uorn in lum cuumj,
Pennsylvania, Decembre 28. lM'J. one
was united in marriage to William J.
Hole in October. ISCIj.
She is survived by her nusoaiiu. two
sons and two uuugniers. oixieen gumu-
children, two sisters and tt brother also
survive. ...
Funeral services were neiu at owainp
College last Tuesday morning.
BERNICE MAURER, AGED 17
Bernice. age seventeen, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. J. B. Maurer, of Mendon, uieu
at 11 o'clock last Friday night at the
home of her parents, following a week's
illness of scarlet fever, liesiues ner par
ents, one brother una one sister survive
Funeral services were Held at tne aiaur
r home lust Sunday morning.
HENRY DOWN HOWERi AGED 78
Henry Downhower, aged 78 years, re
siding on the Neptune pike a mile and a
quarter northeast of this city, died at his
home at eight o'clock Wednesday even
ing. Deceased was born in Perry County,
this slate, In October, ISM. He came to
lb is county from Argus, lnd., four years
ago and purchased part of the old Ship
ley farm, near tlie Jefferson and Center
township line.
He was twice married and Is survived
bv his second wife and three children
John, lving on the Stringtown pike, near
Tamah, Charles, oi i.uiuyeue, ins bihiu,
und Mrs. Jennie Kreilich, of Fremont.
Funeral services will be held at St.
John's Lutheran church in this city, at
9:30 this morning with the pastor. Rev.
Ueitz in charge. The remains will be
shipped to his former home at Lafayette
for Interment.
MRS. OTTO SOMMERS, AGED 45
Mrs. Henrietta Sommers died Sunday
night, having suffered for the past sev
eral months with cancer. The deceased
was born at Peru, lnd., July 16, 1870, and
was a daughter of Joseph and Lucy Mow
bray In 1S92 she was married to Otto
Summers adn for the next two years they
lived at Peru. In 1S94 they moved to tins
place where they have since resided. At
the time of her deuth Mrs. Sommers was
aged 45 years, 6 months adn 10 days. She
leaves the husband, four children, George.
Lucy, Marie and Robert; her mother and
one sister, Mrs.l. E. Binkert, ot Peru,
she was a member of the Altar Socie
ty of the Catholic church at this place
nil was a meinour oi uie . m
h 1 1 villa rv
The funeral services were held at the
Catholic church, Wednesday morning:.
Ft. Recovery Tribune-Journal.
ANTHONY SCHUERMAN, AGED 52
Anthony Schuerman, aged 52 years, one
of the well known business men of St.
Henry, died very suddenly at half past
three last Monday afternoon.
He had been in apparent health, but
became ill while at work In his store. He
went into the house and had Just luid
down on the couch when ho was stricken
w ith nppoplexy, death ensuing uimosi im
mediately. l e.. user! ic.-is horn nnd raised near fat.
Anthony, but for the past ten years he
has conducted a hardware store at fet.
Anthony and was one of the principal
iiiiuiness men of that Village. Fourteen
years ago he was united In marriage to
Frances Feldhake, and she and one son,
Clarence, und three step-children, Lava-
na. Alva and Eleanor Feldhake survive.
Knnerai services were neia ai uie tt
thollc church at St. Henry yesterday
in jrnlnir and was attended tiy a large
concourse of friends.
MRS. ANNA REBECCA WILES, Aged 93
Mrs. Anna Rebecca Wiles, an aged lady
living south of town, died Monday morn
ing her death being due to grippe and
old age. She was 93 years of age and
leaves four sons Isaac and Harvey of nera
this olaco. Will of Muncle and Joe, of
Tintnn. and one daughter. Susan, at home.
Her husband "receded her in death
about nine years ago. Funeral services
and burial took place at Rose Hill, Wed
nesday. Ft. Recovery Tribune-Journal.
JOHN NOLAN
John Nolan, an aged and retired farm
er, who made his home with Chas. Kiser
and family, one mile west of Skeels X
Roads, died Wednesday night having en
failimr in health for some time.
The deceased whs wel lknown here as
he lived for several years one and one
half miles south of town. The remains
will be brought here Friday for burial in
trie i'lsgan cemetery. Ft. recovery xn-
bune-Journoi.
DORSTEN SELLS BUSINESS
John Dorsten, who for many yq,irs past
has conducted a grain and feed store op
posite the City Hull, on North Main street
last Friday disposed of his business to
Henry Diener and Jesse Redman. The
new firm wll be known as Diener & Red
man. Henry Diener, the Junior member
of the firm, and a hustling young man,
will be the manager ot tho business.
Ohio, March 31, 1916
LECTURE AT NEPTUNE
'i'h. In! ,, in,, l,r of the Neptune Leo
lure I',,., is,- will l,,i il lecture by Dr. U. W.
Hu, Saturday night. April 1, 1916. at the
Nintiiiie Hull. Dr. liuv is called "Iho
Livingston, of S. A." ho spent 15 yrs.
.., .I,., i,ii, ni,i.,tiiu.iri oiirtM of liiut country.
While on onu of Iheso exploring trips he
discovered a b.itid of Indians never im-
foru visited by white nu n. Ill his lecture
ho will tell of his experience while with
them.
buigi Admission i.'io
CLEAN UP AND PAINT UP
If you want to make sure of healthful
surroundings for your family this sum
mer, you should Clean I p and Pulnt I'p
the place throughly befuie warm weather
anives. Read uhout the necessity of do
iiiK so, In this Issue of The Democrat.
SOMETHING TO WORRY ABOUT
Triplets were born Suturday to Mr. nnd
Mrs. Henry Ontrop, five miles northeast
of town. The youngsters are healthy
children and consist of two boys and a
girl. Their names are Cantus Henry
Frederick. Martha Ida Mario and Philip
Sylvester Frances. Their weights were
respectively & and fii, pounds. Mrs.
Ontrop wns formerly Miss Sopnlu Wcbel.
Ft. Tribune-Journul.
GERMAN EMPIRE
45 YEARS OLD
PLEDGE OF THE GERMAN
PEROR, IN 1871
EM-
"To aid at all times the Em
pire's growth; not by the conquests
of the sword, but by the good gifts
of peace In national Prosperity,
Freedom mid Culture."
it Is Just forty-five years ago that the
present German Empire was formed. The
scene of Its birth was cleverly arranged
by Bismurk as the culmination of his
hopes and ambitions. The pact that un
ited the many German states Into the
present Empire was sprung at the psycho
logical moment,, Just as France had fall
en before the armies of Prussia and her
allied states. The guns were booming
near Paris, then In the state of siege,
when Bismark brought together the vic
torious leaders that had swept through
France; und in the flush of victory they
wove the threads prepared for them by
the great Bismarck Into the binding cords
of an Empire.
No more dramatic place for such an
event could have been selected than the
famous "Hall of Mirrors" that hud been
built at Versailles by Louis XIV, King of
I'runee, as a memoriul of France's
riuuiphs. Two centuries alter tne iamous
luls Had Hunt ins irimpnai nun, n us
the scene of Bismarck s tnumpn. uer-
man kings, princes and noblemen garner
ed on January 18, 1S71. to celebrate the
downfall of France .their rival through
the ages, nnd to attest the view of the
master mind of Bismarck.
Much has nccn written aooui mis
t range scene, which was the birth of tae
present German Empire. The climax of
the war brought forth strong speeches of
triumph and exultation, rivalling the
boom or tne siege guns rnai were oaner
Ing the defences of Paris. The only em-
h.-tiuiiment this scene needed was tne an
tithesis suutilied by the misfortunes of
France s ruler. Napoleon ill, wno was a
soner of the invaders, and or tne
French armies which had surrendered.
The ironies of fate, held sway that histor
ic morning. France has never forgotten;
r triumph came forty vears later, wnen
she stopped the greatest army that was
ever sent to battle and crushed the plsns
of conquest made by the grandson of the
Empon r who was crowned in tne nan
of Mirrors.
The German Empire esiaousnea in ion
was a restoration or uie earner r.iiiiure
which hud fallen Into decay. William,
k'ini? nf Prussia, was the hero of the war.
The other German states had rallied to
his support, and the tragedy in ranee
was the ocasslon of the rebinding of the
ties. Bismarck had forseen the result.
ind he planned the moves wnicn wouia
place his master at the head of the new
Knipire, The Reichstag had approved the
new Empire in December, 1M0, and Bis
marck paved the way and set the stage
frir th rlrnmntlc moment.
William, tlie King or l'russin, ana neuu
of the North German Federation, became
the head or twenty-nve states, mere
were four kingdoms included, also eigh
teen grund duchies and three "free cit
ies." Bismarck wrote the speecn wnicn tne
new-made Emperor delivered as the
pledge of his dynasty. His avow;ed pur
pose, ne slated, would lie 10 am m un
times the Empire's growth; not by the
conquests of the sword, but by tne good
girts or peace in nation t-rosperuy, free
dom and Culture."
And the civilized world is now asKing:
How "has he kept the faith?"
POLITICAL DOPE
Faulkner, In Cincinnati Enquirer
Fearful of the outcome in the Fourth
Congressional District if the battle be
tween J. Henry Goeke, of Auglaize, and
N. W. or "Dick" Cunningham, of Allen,
Is renewed, J. O. Amos, of Sidney, this
week boldly proposed a compromise
through the selection of tt dark horse.
Two years ago, after a nerce primary
scrap, Goeke was Ueteaiea, and ai me
election Cunningham, who overcame him,
went down Pefore J. E. itusseu. or oiu
ney, Republican, although the district is
one of those bailiwicks called a Demo
cratic "Jibberalter." in order to bring
about this mlllenial condition it will be
necessary to secure the approval of both
Goeke and Cunningham. For the present,
it is said, this Is regarded as mgniy im
probable, us both are seeking vindication.
Republicans In the district worked
against the Sprague congressional gerry
mander last year necause uie new appor
tionment added more Democrats to it.
They feel that they can re-elect Russell
under the present arrangement.
MARRIAGE LICENSES ISSUED
.7,.sse I. Risher. 39. engineer. Rockford.
son of Hiram Risher, and Florence Little,
40, cook. Rockford, daughter of Georffe
Sllor. Rev. Roebuck.
PERSONAL
Vr. T.M Heff ner. of Wanak. is the truest
of her mother, Mrs. F. S. Colllni, East
Livingston street.
Superintendent of Schools J. W Pogue
goes to Sidney to-night to act as one of
the Judges in a contest between the Sid
nev nnd ltellefonta jne hinh schools.
Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Weitz have moved
from this city to Bryan, where Air. Weitz
will have charge of that territory for the
New Idea Snreuder Works, ot uoiawaier.
Misses Anna and Ida Short, of Cleve
land, are Guests of their mother. Mrs.
Mary Short. East Market street, and their
brother. Attorney Frank v. snort ana ta-
mily, West Logan street.
Mrs. Verna Kline, of Cleveland, Is a
guest this weke of her parents. Fire
Chief and Mrs. Jacob Weber, East Liv
inirston street.
Mrs. August Spieler, East Wayne street
entertained last Sunday evening in honor
of Miss Dorothy Pummell. who Is to be
wedded in April to Thomus Hart, Jr., fo
Gibson township.
Our teacher friend Otto Doenges, of
New Bremen, a former tried and true De
mocrat of Franklin township, was a Celi
na visitor last Saturday.
Miss Katherine Rowe, of Sandusky, was
tno last Sunday guest or Mr. and Jars. ,
N. McNare.
Mrs. Dell Roebuck, of Lima, is the guest
of her parents. Mr. and Mrs. I. N. Kiser.
Miss Onllee Wyckoff, of Delaware, visit
ed her aunt, Mrs. R. R. Wyckoff, this
week.
Mrs. David Crouch, of the Lake View
audition, shooed and roll last f nuay ev-
enimr discolatinir her left shoulder.
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Roesner have
moved Into the Harry Llninger property.
eorner Buckeye ana Aiitnony au-eeuk
ONE PAPER
In th HOME li worth a doxan In
th byway, and Just nnnmbtrTHI
DEMOCRAT It th hom ppr ef
Mrcr County.
AFTER
State Highway Commission
for Survey of Another Road
SALARIES FOR ASSESSERS FIXED
BIG BUNCH OF BIDS ON SEVEN
TEEN BRIDGES
Owing to the unfavorable weather con
ditions the hearing on the Flshur Joint
ditch, between Mercer and Augluise coun
ties was adjourned to April 4, at 10 a.
in.
Tho Board lust week granted the Hel
by road, petitioned for by W. Heckman
et al.. in Recovery township, and fixed
April 3 at 1 p. ni. us the time for hear
ing of objections to tho assessment.
Tin y also provided that assessments may
bo puld In cash until April 7 at 1 p. m.
The Commissioners of Mercer and of
Darke counties met In Joint session last
week on tlie Everman joini roaa impruv--
inent. After viewing the proposed Im
provement the Joint board, because of a
request appended to said petition pecl
fjlng "home gravel or no pike," dismiss
ed the petition. ,
The fionid renuested the State High
way Coinmlssiolii to cause survey, plana
etc. to be mude on part of iiiier-coumy
highway No. 2M. (Tlie ti. Keeovery aiiu
illsiiint pine over ine ioiiowiiik mm.-.
Beginning at tlie county line between
Van Wert and Mercer counties; thence
south following said lnter-county high
way across Bluckcreek township to the
Liberty township line and there termnl-
aee. a distance oi aooui ii'm nines.
The Board ordered that the per diem
salaries ol the assessors be fixed at $4 for
the time actually employed.
The Board determined the route and
ordered the improvements of the Siebert
and Fast roads, both in Hopewell town
ship. , ,
yulte a bunch of bids were received
lust Friday on the seventeen bridges ot
tered by the commissioiners. The bids
received and awards maue are as iuuows.
kohl hriilee to J. H. Gels. Bids Flfer
iillilleary. fliO.W; August Kothman, 190;
Andy Weigle ;is; Euri i-resion, n.o,
Harry Hight i-M.SO; J. E. Hard 44.IU;
J. H. Gels $244.00. fj ,T
Highley to Harry L. tiignt. eias mu
ry Hight liTll.SO; Eurl Preston VM2; Andy
Weigle lill; J. A. Ward Jjas.25; lifer 6c
Hilleary J;!74.bl. .
Dine to Earl Preston. Bids Wolf Bros.
1 4 S ; ; Filer At Hilleary $4i4.0; J. A. Ward
J4S3; Earl Preston $427.60; Harry Hight
J450.7O; J. E. Ward 1488.35. . ,
Metzer to J. H. GuU. Bids J. H. GeU
J. E. Ward $3j3.12; Harry Hight
$308. f5; Earl Preston $ot0; August Koth
man $400; Filer 6t Hilleary $81; J. B.
Walls $315.
Custer to Harry Hight. Bids Harry
Higlit $538.25; J. E. Ward $581; J. A.
Ward $5ul; H. T. Burnett, $500; Flfer &
Hilleary $545. ,,.
Fullenkamp to Harry Hight. Bids Fl
fer 6c Hilleary $341.00; J. A, Ward $369.
75; Andv Weigle $350; Eurl Preston $360;
Hurry Hight $334. lib; J. E. Ward $35d.05;
J. H. Gels $318.
Creamery to J. H. Gels. Bids Flfer &
Hilleary $170.60; August Kothman fuOO.35
Eurl Preston $150; Hurry Hlgm $o66.7o;
J. E. Ward $502.10; J. H. Gels $431
Vondenbosch to J. 11. Gels. Bids Fl
fer it Hilleary $088.50; August Kothman
$70'J.25; J. A. Wurd $723.25; Harry Hight
$710; J. E. Ward $710; Frank. Woeatu
$705; J. 11. Gels $074.
Deitsch to Andy Weigle. Bids Flfer
& Hilleary $3'J0; J. A. Ward $388.75; An
dy Weigle $343; Earl Preston $S68; Har
ry Might $380.50.
Now to Harry Hight. Bids Flfer &
Hilleary $113.10; J. A. Ward $443; Andy
Weigle $407; Earl Preston $158; Horry
Hight $410; J. E. Ward $478.30.
Gertz to Filer & Hilleary. Bids Flfer
& Hilleary, $70u; J. A. Ward $70.70; An
dy Weigle $iisl; Harry Hight $710; J. K.
Ward $784.65. a
Si llior.st to Earl Preston. Bids Flfer
& Hilleary $461; J. A. Ward $462; Andy
Weigle $15:); Earl Preston $435; Harry
Hight $460.75; J. H. Gels $468.
Zenz to Earl Preston. Bids Flfer &
Hilleary $5!i5; August Kothman $507.25;
J. A. Ward $5'.iii; Eearl Preston $681.25;
Harry Hight $5JO.D0; J. E. Ward $003; J.
H. Gels $589. ,
R. W. and B. C. to Earl Preston. Blds
Filer Sc Hilleary $405; J. A. Ward $018;
Earl Preston $487.50; Harry Hight $512.40;
J. E. Wurd $508.65; J. H. Gels -493.
Oakland to J. H. Gels. Bids Fifer &
Hilleary $337; J. A. Ward $328; Adny Wei
gle $322; Earl Preston $301.60; Harry
Hight $325.91; J. E. Ward $344.40; J. H.
Gels $21)8. . . . ,
Wourms to J. H. ueis. bios J. a.
Walls $310; Fifer Ai Hilleary $348; August
Kothman $375; Andy Weigle 339; Earl
Preston $141; Hurry Hight $342; J. B.
V urd $320.2; J. n. ueis ij.
.Moorman to J. 11. Gels, uios flier
Hilleary $427.60; August Kothman $435.-
25; J. A. Ward $459.25; liarry Hight $44
38; J. E. Ward $4us.6; i H. Gels $422
A resolution was passed last fridajr
providing for a levy of taxes to pay in
terest und establish sinking fund on the
following roud improvements: Addy No.
2. Sloan. Rutschilling. Cummins, Kommel
joint east and west.
The joint boards of Darke and Mercer
counties last Suturduy accepted the fol-
uwiiK bids on thu Rommel joint road east
und west of Burkettsville;
.Material Rommel joint road west oi
Burkettsville: Greenville Gravel Co., 12,
800; E. E. Studebaker, $2,820.84; Labor
bids on same J. H. Fink $2,185.30; J. H.
Guls $1,973; Burkettsville Grain Co. $1,906;
idara Ritenour, $3,431; joiin . nemmei-
g.irn $2,0Su; u. n. spanr i,ziB; rreu
Manning $1734; E. &. G. Alexander $2
484; Studebaker 4t Son $2,217.91.
Material Kommel joint road easi oi
Burkettsville Greenville Gravel Co.,
stone, $2,495; same, gravel, $2,240; Inter
state stone co., stone, tz.ouu; i.ewisuu.rtt
Stone Co.. stone. $2,600: E. E. Studebak
er, gravel $2,254.05. Labor bids on soma
J. H. Gels, stone $1374; gravel $1344;
Burkettsville Grain Co., gravel $1343,
stone $1JUU; Adam Ritenour, gravel $18U,
lone $1719; G. H. spatir, gravel nuu.
stone $1203; 1'red Manning, gravel $13(t;
E. & G. Alexander, gravel $1695, stone.
tone $1800; Studebaker fc Son, gravel
$1595.
ine laoor on tno ttommei joini roaa
west ot Burkettsville awarded to Frea
Manning ut his bid of $1734, and the ma
terial to tlie Greenville Gravel Co. at their
bid ol $2,800.
Tlie lauor on tne uommei joint roaa
list of Burkettsville awarded to G. F.
Spahr at his bid of $1,263, und the mater
ial (crushed boulders, as decided by tho
joint board to the Greenville Gravel Co.,
ut tneir dki oi fz.4:i.
The following Dills were ajiowea laai
Fridav and are now Davable:
City of Dayton, board county priso
ners J vu
S. S. Scranton, fees states vs. Sel
lers Z4 78
H. Behrens, ditch fees 36 00
B. Evers, same 36 00
A. Brunsewick, same 30 Ot)
J. J. Fast, ref under on Springer
ditch 81
J. A. Roemer, rent surveyor's office 26 00
it. D . puinoti, supplies iid
Dayton B. B. Co., supplies 60
Geo. F. Pulskamp, same 36 60
E. W. Price Co., same 11 ill
McManus-Troupe Co., same 16 00
W. E. Reynolds, asst. eng 2 00
Geo. Flore, soma 1 00
J. E, Harner, same 1 00
The real estate and personal property,
belonging to A. A. Metzner were sold at
auction, Tuesday. George Arbaugh pur
chased the lot and building for $610 and
John Long, of Coldwater purchased the
plumbing material for $313. The New 20
Century Buggy Co. purchased the office
tlx trues for $30. Ft. Recovery Tribune
Journal. TO ALL AUTOMOBILE OWNERS
When in need of help call at the Dix
on Garage, as I do all kinds of repair
work, also welding and brazing. I can
save you money, by welding that broken
part on your machine. Am prepared to
charge storage batteries. Can burn the
carbon out of the cylinders, simply by re
moving spark-plugs. Having no high rent
to pay, will do your work cheaper than
elsewhere. All work guaranteed to give
satisfaction. Come and be convlnced.
Also do all kinds of blacksmlthing. Asa
located ten miles west of Celina, ).. and
1'.2 miles north of Wabaah, O. DIXON
UAJ.tk.UE, Celina, Ohio, ILR. 7,
