T\TT7rj <1 <1 /FS mu
J ® Wmm KT
V/ -■ - AGi/A A /\SJ«vC«iLW wiZrSu* LIL
1 i; nfess
■ ELEVENTH YEAR. No. 31 |
■ WHEAT SILAGE.
(l’,y .1. I! Shinn, Agriculturalist,
county.)
Oroville, Wash. March 21, 1916.
Oroville Gazette, —
Dear Sir: —Your editorial, *‘A Sug-
in last weeks issue of the Ga-
will no doubt awaken our mer-
IHchants and fanners to the fact that an
endeavor must be made to
IHdevelop the dairy industry in this part
the county in tt systematic manner.
BHno one can doubt the wisdom of mak-
IHing a study of the possibilities, and
to active work at once.
the minds of I he-people must
together on this matter, and
the process of concentrating
BHpublic opinion goes on. there are a few
we may do to increase our store
Hm knowledge in regard to the com-
of dairying.
I do not intend to write a long article
r |Hl.i:t wish to point out that the prime
jHiepuisites to successful dairying here
RHnre bet ter cows, better stables and bet-
He, feed. All these are matters of study
|Hiind reunite concentration of effort. No
can keep cows and have success
llte average equipment that pre
|H\ails here. There must be a general
all along the line.
There is no need to keep cows if
hey cannot be comfortably stabled
IHhml properly fed. for milk and butter
Conversely it is useless to put a
■r, rul< cow, or one that is built express-
IHlt for beef, and hope to get a full flow
JHd' rich milk, The first class dairy anl-
IHiiial demands first class care and they
[Htvill yield a return in proportion.
■j The question of feed is always rais
|Hc>l when the dairy question is broach
jHcd and this is especially interesting
Htn the man on the highlands who may
be able to grow hay or other suc-
IHculent forage, and feels that dairying
■j entirely out of his reach. He knows
i/Hthat all good dairymen have silos and
IHthat they grow corn to till them; and
corn is beyond him, he shies at the
■] But there is no need to be discourag
[Hcd. for silage can be grown by the “hill
iHbillies” as well as by the valley folks.
Wheat silage presents a aoJlUlop jpf
the problem and 1 am sending you
herewith a copy of Popular Bulletin
No. 88 isued by the Washington Agri
cultural experiment station at Pull
man, Washington. Mr. Shinn, the
author is county agriculturalist of
Ipokane county and has done an im
nense amount for the development of
luirying in that county. He is a thor
ough and patient, investigator and his
conclusions are well worthy of our
■r refill study.
You will notice that this bulletin
covers investigations for the year of
1914, so that results may be regarded
YIELD OF WINTER WHEi
Location | Kind of Land H'oinlltlon of wheat kernel I Lbs, per acre
J-ittie Spokane* . .(Sub-lrrlgated I Milk 40,610
Foothills (Upland Milk 24,176
Peone Prairie iLevel Prairie I Milk and soft dough 26,261
Spangle jliow swale I Milk and soft dough 40,610
Spangle (Upland I Milk and soft dough 17,424
Spangle (Upland i Milk and soft dough 22.176
Sunset Prairie ....(Thin land I Soft dough 11,326
Deep Creek** (Very thin land ....I Soft dough 6,316
Deep Creek iThln land swale ..I Soft dough 19,384
West Deep Creek..(Low land I Milk and soft dough 38,786
West Deep Creek.. Low land I Milk and soft dough 27,226
West Deep Creek** Low land I Soft dough 11.766
Bspanola Level land ! Milk and soft dough 42,688
Cheney (Crest of hill Hard dough 18,392
Pleasant Prairie ~(Crest of hill I Hard dough 14,810
selntr (Low swale Soft dough 20,908
Freeman (Upland I Hard dough 18,730
•This yield consists of wheat and vetch Brown together.
••These fields were used to grow corn for silage In 1913.
From these figures it will be seen
:hat there is considerable variation in
[he yields secured in various parts of
[he county. The yields secured depends
i great deal upon the character of the
soil and the ripeness of the wheat.
When wheat has reached the hard
dough stage much moisture is lost.
Tliis accounts for the low yield in
such cases as shown above.
Jones' Fife wheat has been used most
for silage purposes, because it is one
of the llnest stemmed and sweetest
wheats grown in the country. In the
low places this wheat often attains a
height of six feet, and if cut at the
proper time, averages 20 tons to the
acre. If allowed to mature on such
ground it usually lodges before the
grain is ripe. For this reason the cut
ting of these rank grown patches of
wheat prior to the harvesting of the
remainder of the field would be econ
omical farm practice. Furthermore,
where tlie wheat grows so rank com
paratively low yields of grain are usu
ally found.
In a great many instances farmers,
on whose places the above mentioned
estimates of yields of wheat silage
were secured, were asked to estimate
the yield of hay. Quite uniformly their
estimates of hay were one-fourth the
yield of green forage. To further test
out this factor a bundle of green wheat
and vetch was taken from the Glen
Tana farm and cured. When green it
weighed 20 pounds and when cured
as hay it weighed five pounds. In other
words winter wheat will make four
times as much silage as hay.
According to our present knowledge
wheat should be cut for silage while
the entire plant is green and the ker
us (airly average, 1915 being an unusual
year. Thcaverage yield per acre of the
17 plots is 11.77 tons, while for the hill
and upland plots, of which there were
six, the average yield per acre is 9.65
tons. The lowest yield of “hill top”
land was 7.4 tons.
It is my imprssion that any of our
upland ranches will average 7 1-2 tons
of “green wheat silage” per acre. Now
presuming that the average cow would
need to be fed 40 pounds of silage per
day for eight months, or 240 days, six
and one half acres would provide the
roughage for ten cows, which would
require a silo 10 feet in diamater and
JO feet high.
Here is a basis for the study of the
forage question, which can profitably
be extended to the “legumes," includ
ing vetch and Bangalia peas. There is
no need to say that we cant produce
forage—we can produce it. and when
we get headed towards dairying, we
w ill produce it. I ask the people to con
sider what the cream check every 30
days will mean to them.
THOMAS NEILL O’NEILL, A. E.
• Cheat silage Is a prime essential for
i profitable feeding of dairy cows, beef
■ cattle or sheep. This Is especially true
1 during the winter months. When the
pastme dries up, as it does in Spokane
’ county, silage is even more essential
1 for rummer feeding. To obtain this
■ kind of feed the middle west farmers
i heve learned to rely upon corn. Natur
al iy ..tost of the dairymen and stock
men of Spokane county have also con
■ sidered corn as the best and cheapest
silage crop in this section. An investi
gation made by the author during the
■ winter of 1913 showed that the yield
■ of corn silage on Spokane county
; farms, not having irrigation, was very
■ low compared to the middle west yield.
■ Incidentally a visit to the Glen Tana
: dairy farm revealed the fact that very
i satisfactory yields of excellent silage
i were being secured from wheat and
I vetch. These crops are seeded together
> in the fall and harvested for silage
while green the following year. The
- foreman of this farm claimed a yield
of 19 tons on a measured acre of
, ground and an average yield of 13
1 tons to. the jacre for a 12-acre held,
i Furthermore’ it is claimed that’ this
i silage gives better results than corn
- silage when fed to dairy cows and that
■ its keeping quality is very satisfactory.
During the ealy summer of 1914 an
’ investigation was undertaken in var
• ions parts of Spokane county to ascer
' tain what yields could be expected
• from winter wheat when cut for silage
i purposes. Small areas of wheat are ac
-1 curately measured, harvested and
weighed. The following figures show
i the results of this investgation which
’ oegan June 23rd and continued until
I July 10th:
AT FOR SILAGE PURPOSES.
nal is in the milk.
When winter wheat is grown alone
for silage, it may be cut and bound
the same as when grown for grain. If
wheat is grown with vetch a mower
must be employed since the vetch
tangles the crop. In this latter com
bination, extra men also are necessary
to open the mower swath to allow of
the free passage of the team and mo
wer. Wheat should be cut in 1-2 inch
lengths or less before being placed in
the silo. It should be pressed evenly
in the silo and tramped thoroughly.
As an extra precaution to exclude the
air, parties using wheat silage have
resorted to the wetting down of the
ensilage with water during the time of
filling or soon afterwards.
The distinct advantages of wheat
silage over corn silage in Spokane
county are:
Wheat in Spokane county has given
much larger silage yields on non-irri
gated lands than corn.
Dairymen who have tried wheat si
lage claim better results in keeping
up the milk flow and producing flesh
than were secured with corn silage.
Every wheat farmer is provided with
his own machine for harvesting wheat
silage—the grain binder.
The harvest season for wheat silage
comes at a time when labor is easily
obtained and at about half the wage
asked during the corn silage harvest.
The services of engines used for
threshing, can readily be secured
for the cutting of wheat silage, while
at the time for corn silage cutting
the engines are busy threshing grain.
If wheat is cut for silage when the
kernels are In the milk, the wild oats
in the crop are removed from the field
OROVILLE. WASHINGTON 6 _
before sufficient ripe to shatter their
seed. This assists materially In keeping
the land clean.
Winter wheat in Spokane county is
ready for silage late In dune or early
in July, the season when the natural
pastures dry up. When put into the
silo, wheat furnishes succulent feed
during the dry summer months. Corn,
on the other hand, is not ready (or sil
age until the middle of September.
The filling of stave silos (the most
common of all silos in Spokane county)
with wheat silage at the beginning of
the summer drought prevents them
from drying out and falling to pieces.
When corn silage is used and the silos
stand empty all summer they are gen
erally badly warped and in poor condi
tion at siloing time in he fall.
DIED.
Tuesday morning. March 28, 1916,
after a very brief illness. Venerable
Mother Mary Scholastics, of the Order
of St. Benedict, superioress of St. Jo
seph’s hospital. Oroville, aged 62
years, 8 months and 3 days.
The deceased was born Ellen Phil
omene Murphy, at Covington, Ky.,
July 25, 1853. She gave up the pomps
and vanities of this world and entered
upon her religious life twenty-seven
years ago. Besides her consecration
to the order of which she was a shin
ing light prior to taking her vows,
Mother Scholastica took a thorough
course as a trained nurse at the
Sacred Heart Hospital of Orange
N. J., thus perfecting herself in the
duties that would fall to her lot as a
Sister of St. Benedict. She has follow
ed the work to which her life was de
voted in Europe, Canada and the Unit
ed States, carrying cheer and com
fort to the unfortunate and all those
requiring her ministrations.
The death of Mother Superior Scho
lastica was sudden and unexpected,
She was taken Sunday morning with
paralysis of the respiratory organs.
Everything known to medical science
was employed for her relief and she
was tenderly cared for by loving
hands. She rallied for a time, but ow
ing to her exhausted condition.
bronghir-about by sleepless vigils and
constant attendance upon the sick for
a long period, she did not have the
vitality necessary to regain strength,
passing away at an early hour Tues
day morning. No death has occurred
in Orovllle that created such univer
sal sorrow', and ns the unexpected an
nouncement was circulated among the
people on every hand was expressed
keen and genuine words of regret.
Mother Superior Scholastics took
charge of St. Joseph's hospital, in this
place on the first day of June, 1915,
and speedily won the 'ove and respect
of ail clases and ail denominations
by her Christian charity, her self
sacrificing devotion to the care of the
afflicted, by her kind, amiable, cheer
ful and charming personality. She was
an angel of mercy in the sick room,
her very smile was like a ray of sun
shine, her beniflcent ministrations
were as soothing as a benediction and
her pure, gentle, benign life worthy of
emulation. The closing of this unsel
fish life is a serious loss to the Order
with which she was so long connected,
and to those associated with her in
that sisterhood.
The remains were taken to Spokane
Friday morning In charge of Father
M. J. Kasper, 0. M. J., and Miss Min
nie Schulte, head nurse at St. Joseph’s
hospital. The funeral will take place
from Sacred Heart hospital Saturday.
M. K. riIIIIU*irSERVICES.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Preaching
service at 11 a. m. Subject of sermon,
“The Great Commission.” Epworth
League at 7 p. m. Miss May Potter,
leader. Preaching service at 8 p. m.
Subject of sermon, “Courageous Opti
mism.” Everybody welcome; every
body come. The homelike church and
the stranger's friend.
W. W. STRITE, Pastor.
PRESBYTERIAN (HUGH,
Good music and gospel preaching
both morning and evening. Morning
service at 11 o’clock, subject of com
munion service, ‘Remembering Christ.’
Evening service at 8 o’clock, "The
Death of Abel, or the First Religious
Quarrel.’
Sunday school at 10. Our Sunday
school continues to grow in numbers,
in spirit and in efficiency. We invite
you to come and Join in all our ser
vices. A. W. BOND, Pastor.
Minutes of th meeting of the town
council of the town of Oroville, March
27th, 1916.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councilmen
Beale, Frlis, Peterson and Smith.
Minutes of the previous meeting
Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Hubert have been read and approved as read,
in Oroville since their son. Leonard, The light committee reported that a
was brought to the hospital so ser- light was needed in the center of the
lously injured. The sympathy of block on Fourth street between Young
friends and neighbors go out to the and Sutton streets and the clerk was
stricken parents. Young Rupert is the Instructed to have the light installed,
eldest of a large family, a steady, in- Ordinance No. 72 entitled “An ordin
dustrious young man, an aid and com- ance Amending Section 6 of Ordinance
fort to his parents and a favorite with No. 29 of the town of Oroville” the
his associates. His terrible condition same being an ordinance amending
as a result of the accident is deeply section 1, section 8, section 4 and sec
deplored by all who know the family, tion 10 of ordinance No. 2 of the town
£ SHOCKING ACCIDENT.
1 ,
Last, Wednesday Leonard Hubert,
the l} year-old son of Mr. and Mrs.
Qeo. Hubert, living In Aeneas valley,
met with a shocking accident in which
he suffered the fracture of the vertebra
near the Juncture of the last riba. Just
how tile accident occurred is not
knowji, and as the victim was rendered
tempotarily unconscious he is unable
to gidfc a clear account, of how It
happtjfied. Mr. Rupert senior owns a
small saw mill and Leonard was haul
ing logs on a bob sled to a skid way at
the mill. From the victim's statement
It appears that he had unloaded all the
logs except one. The end of the last
log had rolled from the rear bobs when
young Rupert was standing on the
running gear of the sled. The weight
ot the.log tipped the bobs over, throw
ing the driver off toward the logs al
ready unloaded, and the log on the
sled becoming loosened rolled down,
catching the unfortunate youth in
such a manner that he was doubled up
until his face and feet came together.
He was found Jammed between the
logs by his father and younger brother
about fifteen minutes after the accident
occurred. Dr. Clough, of Tonasket, was
summoned, and the sufferer was
brought to St. Joseph’s hospital as soon
as poslsble. Young Rupert Is paralyzed
from his waist down and is in a very
precarious condition. He has been
placed in a plaster cast and his physic
ians expresses hope that if the spinal
chord is not too greatly injured that
the young man may regain his normal
health.
PERMANENT LOCATION.
The directors of the irrigation dis
trict have for some time been looking
for a site for the location of a per
manent office. Lots In different sec
tions of the town'liitve beetr'ronsider-'
ed, but the offer made to the board
at its session Wednesday was accept
ed and the office of the board and the
official headquarters of the district
will be located on Spokane street, fac
ing east. Mr. A. P. Murray on the part
of the First National Bank and Mr.
J. for the Orovllle town
'slte cobipatfy donated lefts 18 and 19 -
ol block 24, a fifty foot front, in a
very desirable location, and there an
office will be built for the district.
Not a bit behind In generosity, and
in their characteristic liberal spirit
the business men of the town through
the Commercial club made a liberal
donation toward the erection of the
office building, and S2OO was appro
priated for that purpose. The subject
of the erection of a suitable office
building for the headquarters of the
district has been before the board but
a short time, and the very liberal as
sistance given by the business men,
and the quick response and the liberal
co-operative spirit shown is exceed
ingly gratifying. The officers of the
district and the people of the entire
project certainly appreciate the gene
rous spirit of the business men of
Oroville.
PLEASING ENTERTAINMENT.
it was probably owing to the threat
ening condition of the weather last
Friday evening that there was not as
many in attendance at the entertain
mnt given In the Orpheum, under the
auspices of the Commercial Club as
were expected, but those present were
glad they braved the elements as they
were treated to one of the best musical
programs that has been presented in
Oroville for many a day. Owing to ill
ness neither Mrs. Lewis nor Mrs.
Major could take part and other num
bers were substituted. The orchestra
music was of a high order, and the
members were generous in responding
to recalls. The trombone solo by Mr.
Mallory, the violin solo by Mr. Steiner
and the xylophone solo by Mr. Ingram
were rare musical treats. Mrs,
C. C. Hedger and Mrs. E. S. Taylor
gave two delightful piano duets, and
vocal solos by Miss Eliza Grathwohl
and Mr. Starrett wr admirably render
ed. After the entertainment a number
of the audience remained and took
part in a social dance. The receipts
did not set the club exchequer very
far forward.
COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
of Oroville, the same being an ordin
ance establishing the offices of town
cltrk, town marshal, street commis
sioner and town attorney, providing
for the manner of their election and
prescribing their duties and fixing
their compensation, was read and mo
tion was made tha tho ordinance pass
Its third and final reading. Yeas, Beale,
Friis, Smith and Peterson. Noes, none.
Ordinance No. 23, entitled “an ordin
ance amending section 3 or ordinance
No. 59 of the town of Oroville, the
same being an ordinance creating the
office of health officer for tho town
of Oroville, prescribing his duties and
fixing his compensation, was read and
motion was made that it pass its third
and final reading. Yeas, Beale, Prlls,
Smith and Peterson. Noes, none.
The water committee report that the
town pump needed overhauling and
recommended that the town clerk be
Instructed to write Fairbanks, Morse
& Co., asking that a man be sent to
do this work. The clerk was so in
structed.
The mailer of amending the water
ordinance was then discussed and the
committee were instructed to have an
amendment drafted as soon as possible.
Council adjourned.
E. R. IIOOSR. Clerk
GETTING EXPERIENCE.
The domestic cience girls at the high
school are getting actual training in
their line. Every Friday one of them
tills the place of hostess and another
that of host at a dinner party of ten.
Recently Lorraine Bartell was hostess
and Bernice Harding host at a lunch
eon given for tho basket ball boys. The
guests were: Prof. Nance, Aubrey Me
Mahan, Charlie Cole, Frank Ford,
Winfred Bair, Harlan Fuller, Lawrence
Dallam, Theodore Johnson, Joe Ashby,
Warren Mallory and Steve Nagy. The
'menu was af follows: Celery soup;
steak and gravy; mashed potatoes,
creamed cauliflower, Parker house
rolls; tea; fruit salad; frozen sustard
and cake. The cost was slightly under
25 cents per plate.
MINERAL FLOTATION PRICES.
At the (tuning ctinVentton - recently*
held at Spokane a test of this process
was made on the ores of the Gold King
Mining company which is located
about six miles west of Oroville. While
the ore was undoubtedly not the aver
age of the 10 foot vein, the results
were very encouraging and show that
the flotation method of recovery of
values of this sort of ore Is the cor
rect one. The following values are
shown by an assay certificate from
Richard Marsh, on the concentiates re
covered from the ore. Gold, $1.65, sil
ver. $7.03, copper, $ll.BB, lead, $52.12,
total $82.68, Tailings, $8.07.
HARD TIMES DANCE.
The band will give a hard times
dance in the Orpheum next Friday
evening, April 7, to which the public
is cordially invited. This is going to
be another of those joy producers that
can always be expected when the local
band has charge of a social event of
this character, and a crowded house
can be promised in advance. A hard
times dance is appropriate Just at this
time, and there will be much emula
tion among participants outvying
each other in rigging up raiment in
dicative of a condition of dead broken
ness.
ATTENTION**DEMOCRATS.
This paper has been requested to
announce that there will be a meet
ing of the democrats at Ed. Davis’
office next Tuesday evening for the
purpose of organizing a democratic
club. All members of the party in the
precinct are requested to be present.
Geo. Bartell lias purchased two va
cant lots on the west side of Main
street, between A. J. Wickersham’s
building and C. Schassbrger’s tailor
shop. It is Mr. Hartells intention to
put up a modern brick moving picture
house on this property this summer.
The property embraces two of the
most desirable inside lots on Main
street, and a better location for an
opera house could not very well be
selected. The new building, on the
plans that he proposes to follow, will
be a great improvement to the business
,center of the town. The lots were pur
chased from W. .1. Frank & Son.
J. A. Criswell, of Monson, who has
had much experience on an irrigation
project on Lake Chelan, has been en
gaged by the board of directors to take
charge of the West Okanogan Valley
Irrigation flumes and ditches as man
ager after completion of construction.
It will be necessary when the system
is completed and ready for use to have
a force of men employed to constantly
watch and care for the flumes and
ditches, with one man of experience in
charge as manager, and Mr. Criswell
was the gentleman selected for that
purpose.
91.60 PER TEAR
INDIAN LANDS TO PAT.
Through the Okanogan valley, with
in the boundaries of the West Oka
nogan Valley Irrigation district, are
a number of Indian allotments, em
bracing quite a large acreage and in
cluding some of the best tracts that
come under the Irrigation system.
When the district was organized and
bonded these lands had to be elimin
ated in the calculation of the acreage
to be assessed to meet the payment
for construction, as no provisions in
the Indian department existed for In
dian lands paying their pro rata to
meet the expense of such public im
provement. This was unfair and un
just, because the installation of an
irrigation system adds value to the
Indian lands in the same proportion
that it does to adjacent lands, and
that enhanced value was coming with
out the land contributing its propor
tional share toward the heavy expense
of securing water. An appeal was
made to the Washington congression
al delegation for aid in securing gov
ernment assistance to such extent as
would result in the Indian lands pay
ing an equal amount to that assessed
against adjoining property.
Senator Poindexter Introduced a bill
in the senate appropriating |98,000 for
this purpose. The bill was reported
upon favorably by the committee to
which it was assigned and Wednesday
it passed the senate. This large sum
is a very material and timely aid to
the district, as It will help to meet the
cost of construction, besides relieving,
private ownership from considerable'
burden. The news of the passage of
the bill was received here by wire and
was a cause of happy congratulations
among the citizens.
The library was crowded last Thurs
day afternoon on the occasion of the
musical recital given by Mrs. C. C.
Hedger’s young pupils, and the audi
ence was delighted with the excellent
performance of the young people. All
of those taking part did remarkably
well, considering their age and the
time they have been taking lessons,
showing the effect of thorough instruc
:ion and careful training, but Miss
Pauline Schassbergw- excelled at the
instrument. This little miss is really a
remarkable performer for one of her
age, and it she continues to Improve
she will make her mark as a pianist.
Harry R. Shafer, who proved up on
his homestead before U. S. Commis
sioner Fred Neal, Monday, is much in
terested in the progress of the expedi
tion that has broken Into Mexico on
the trail of Villa. Mr. Shafer spent
twelve years on the Mexican border,
about the country that is the center of
trouble, and he says the American
people have no idea of the antagonism
felt by Mexicans toward the United
States, and In what contempt they
look upon the people of the states. He
feels that it will be little short of a
miracle if war between the United
States and Mexico does not grow out
of the present situation.
E. N. Grubb is to lay a sewer line
from the hotel to the river. Some op
position has developed to running the
sewerage into the river below the
swimming hole, it the discharge is
placed in the river below the cream
ery where there is swift water, prob
ably there would be no protest. The
fact is Mr. Grubb must have a means
of securing drainage for the hotel, as
the present method of hauling sewer
age is both expensive and very much
a public nuisance, and the people who
are beuelltted by having such a large
and popular hotel in the town should
not place any unnecessary impediment
in the way of the owner securing an
outlet for drainage. The time cannot
be postponed much longer, by the way,
when some provision must be made to
care for the sewage of the town. The
necessity for a sewerage system will
become more pronounced as the town
grows, and the sooner our citizens
lake some action the better it will be.
Harry Russell, of lowa, who has had
much and succesful experience in the
colonization game, and who Is work
ing to bring settlers to northern Oka
nogan county, was in town Tuesday
making arrangements for the first
contingent of home seekers that Is
expected here in April. After his visit
to Oroville last fall Mr. Russell was
elected to serve a term in the hospital
and his illness greatly disarranged his
plans. However he is himself again
and very optimistic as to the future
of this country. He feels satisfied that
a large number of people will come
into the valley to locate this summer.
Personally, he is very favorably Im
pressed with the lands under the
West Okanogan Valley Irrigation pro
ject, and considers that the climatic
conditions are a great asset In con
junction with the incomparable lands.
Mr. Russell is a hustler with a big H,
and he is enlisted for the war in the
campaign inaugurated to people the
lands under the ditch.
