LACLEDE
BLABEo
; .' 4 - . .
Volume 26, Number 47
LACLEDE, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 191(5
$1.C3 Per Year in Advance
TOWN AND COUNTRY
Reading Circle Meeting
Tuesday night the Reading Circle
heldits regular meeting with Miss
Aknt 1 PaI- JnJ P. J Grace Sissons, The members and
ON LOCAL SUBJECTS
Other Matters of Interest
Lettuce this week at Patrick'8.
guests responded to roll call with
interesting current events. Mrs.
P. W. Burke gave a very interest
ing lesson from book, "Changing
Moving pictures Saturday night. America,'' chapter 8 and 9. Mrs.
Old Trusty incubators; Patrick's. Patrick gave the lesson in the In
Wagon and harness for .sale, dependent. At the close of the
Call phone 84. ' ' lesson Miss Sissons, in her usual
Red onion sets 10c qt. or 3 for f manner, informed the
25c at Patrick's. Circle she had something to say
wnicn was to . the effect that the
on
read
Sympathetic Orchestra
Last week it was announced
this page that the musical enter
Local Items and Interesting Bits of taiDment b7 th nieh school was to
N.w Af All rf. ? uo lven Anarsaay nignt or cms
wees, wnen it. snouia nave
Friday night. March 31.
miss Mane uooawine, a former The Drot-ram ia fa nt
sinaeni in me ideae scnoois ana large attendance. T It certainly wil
. -uVffU .. n tuarncu ivpe enjoyable to all who hear it
wee to uienn ureen or iioopeston, The program is being worked out by
in., me cermony pemg perrormea Mjss B. Enid All-n of Brookfield
at Wheeling. They will reside on with Prof. H. Griffen Standly
me onua a iarm norm oi wneei- nnnln. tu v:u i :i
w
I have 25 shoats, weigh 75 to 80
ponnds, for sale. H. H. Hawes.
.s' have made a splendid showing un
American Ambulance hospital of The little son of Mr. and Mrs. der Miss Allen's excellent training
iraris nad sent an anDeal to thelRAlnh F.nhmn wm nmt ' hndlv innA nnrlnnKfiT tv, :n a
- , , - , I I 1 V 1 . uv. .uavuvnuij uoj nmuu H1CIU
w.u.wujr U, .uB1u American people. The Ambulance scalded last Monday when he ac- selves justice Friday night.
iui .!. xu4uu0UCuUu lu. Hospital, established in Paris in cidently sat down in a kettle of hot
R. C. Reds eggs, $3.00 per hun- 1870, is a national institution sup- watert the 'home of his grand
dred. Phone 705. Mrs. G. W. ported by the American people as a parents, Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Eich-
Syms. , token of their love and sympathy man. Promot aDolication of reme-
Another reason why the people of
Laclede should respond to this pro
gram's that they may assist the
Parent-Teachers' Association
Harry Landree took a car of fat with France, in recognition of her dies relieved him and it is thought their endeavor to put a course of
sheep to the St. Louis market last neipruiness and loyality in revolu- there will be no bad results. music in the high school. This is
Monday night. tionary times. Instead of serving The Brown Antomobi'e Com- an experiment that should be made
About twenty bushels of apples reiresnments at tnis meeting Miss pany, representing the Saxon Six a successful one. You can do your
bissons stated she was giving a m this county, have started their part by coming out to hear this
check to the hospital in the name spring campaigh with an advertise- entertaining program. Tickets
of the American Reading Circle, "ment in Thr Blade today. Mr. may be obtained from the chorus
for sale at 50 cents per bushel at
my home. Henry Kraft.
For rent House and about 15
w .. .1 livinc nn tn thm namft nf r.ha fiirnlo I
acres lor corn, 67 miles sontnwest : F oruwu wu uavvvuv oi me asio i ""uwois.
of Laclede. Call phone 607. . Une members and gtfests thanked models of this popular car here The program begins promptly at
The residence of Mr. and Mrs.
Geo. Denbo was wired and placed
on the electric light service , this
week.
I her and added a bit so that through within a few days and will be. glad 8 o'clock, at the opera house. It
nurse or patient may be supported
at the hospital a few days, while
the A. R. C.'e. Quite hanDV. en-
Forsale Two cows, one a Jersey in nnfpaa faniinnt. onA
at Laclede, some horses; quality were glad to bave been at the
hedge posts east of Forker. Annajmeetjng
Ransom.
miss wrace s Kina tnougnttuiness a to demonstrate to those who are in
the market for a moderate priced
family car.
D. L. Patten, the livest sales
manager in this part of the state,
Poland China male
months old, weight 150
Mrs. Elizabeth Reid does hair
work of the hfghest quality.
Switches made from your own hair.
All hand work.
A full blood
-hog, 5
pounds, for sale by G. W. Syms,
Laclede, phone 705.
Regular meeting of the Grand
Army post Saturday afternoon of
this week and as many members as ticket
possible should attend. voters
uses a page in The Blade today to
exDloit the J. B. Patrick stnnk
City Ticket which has been placed in his hands
A bnsiness men's meeting was for an immediate conversion into
held at the Lomax & Standly bank cash. This is a large, clean stock
last Monday night at which several and includes everything in hard
subjects of importance to the town ware, furniture and groceries and
and community were discussed, there ought to be a large amount
The subject of street oiling, a lec- of buying done in the next thirteen
ture from an expert on commercial (days.
fertilizers for farm nse and other
subjects were taken up. As a re
sult of the meeting the following
will be presented to the
at the city election next
- Don't forget the movies at the Tuesday: H.L.Allen, mayor; F.
opera house Saturday night. A fine
five reel feature is the program.
Admission 10 and 20 cents.
The W. F. M. S. will meet with
Mrs. J. E. Welsh next Wednes
day, April 5, at 2:30. Mrs. H. E.
GarBide, leader; Mrs. M. F. Clay,)
mystery box.
The JJeLaval separator agency
R. Power, marshal; H. C. Lomax,
police judge; J. H. Nichols, alder
man for east ward and Geo. O.
Plowman, alderman in west ward.
All good men and will probably be
elected without opposition.
Methodist Church Notes
H. 3. Dueker. Pastor.
Preaching on Sunday at 11 a. m.
has been transferred from J. Paul and 7:30 p. m.
Jones to Plowman & Jones who Epworth League at 6:30 p. m.
will carry machines and repairs on Topic: "The Nation's Bulwark
hand at all times. Christian Homes." X. Y. Z.
We are selling our present stock te' Prf idP'-
vi Auiciiuau icuuu uoivn iuauu-
The road drag shonld be nsed
I now and as often as conditions are
right for it. The ground has been
settled by the late rains and ruts
should now be kept so full they
will have no chance to get deep. A
well dragged road will shed the
spring rains so well and save so
much later that early dragging Davs and Urant WeIsh wenfc to Chariton
better than old "stitch in time" countv Wednesday to visit Wilmer
methods. It saves much of dis- Welah and famj,y
comfort of travel over muddy and Mr. and Mrs. J. Knight bave
rough roads and is a saving in spent the first of the week with
many ways. Get busy with the their daughter, Mrs. S. C. Kuhn
road drag at every opportunity is and Mr. Enhn on route two.
is announced as a sympathetic"
orchestra. Give them - your sym
pathy by being there. Children.
15 cents; adults, 25 cents.
Local and Personal
Ross Glenn spent Tuesday after
noon in Chillicothe.
Mrs. F. F. Pratt and Mrs. J. E.
Welsh spent Tuesday afternoon in
Chillicothe
Mrs. Abe Wise of Clinton, Mo.,
visited her niece, Mrs. A. J. Harter
and family here this week.
Mr. and Mrs. Ira Duckworth
have been over from Hale this
week for a visit with relatives and
friends.
Cbas. E. Hart of Brookfield, re
publican candidate for prosecuting
attended the Mrs. Hurlbnt funeral
here Monday.
Mrs. M. A. Tracy, Miss Marietta
PASSING OF S. CKUIIIJ
Other Deaths and Funerals
The Past Week
Here
facture prices, and when this is
gone we will have no more this
season. J. n. ratnctc.
next
for last two weeks of Lent.
week
thing.
The meeting of Chapter R, P.
E. O. held at the home of Mrs.
Ella Standly last Friday afternoon
was of special interest. Mrs. Edith
Bradley, state organizer of Joplin,
was a gnest and was here in an
official capacity, inspecting the
a T r- a m
mrs. d. j. reatnerston and
daughter were called to Meadville
last Monday on account of the
serious sickness of the former's
father, A. K. Bailey.
After spending the winter in the
south, John C. Brown spent a few
days at his home here and left
Notice of Annual School Election
Notice is hereby given to the books and the giving of the work. Tuesday night to attend a gas con
Those who attended the moving? t-uaaueu voiera OI lQe 8cno a" In her talk she told of the helpful vention at Tampa, Fla.
pictures last Saturday night saw a I - cwunty, deeds or the P. iS. U. everywhere. Mrs. Frank Ricketts and Mrs.
finfi five reel featnre that was worth Missouri, tnat tne Annual bchooW Other enests of the afternoon were Nettte Ricketts of Chilliftothi. -iit
the money. Another good program E-ect-on will be held at the M. W.lMrs. Mamie Threlkeld of Alliance, ed relatives here this week, guests
Nebr., Mrs. Vina Bowden and of the family of J. B. Patrick and
Mrs. Kate Brownlee of Brookfield. Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Tracv.
m -
A. hall in said district on
Tuesday, Aprej 4, 1916
The polls will be opened at
seven (7) o'clock a. m. and closed
for Saturday night of this week.
Don't fail to read J. B. Patrick's
ad on page 5. The entire stock at
the Model will be on tbe bargain
counter at the mercy of the D. L.
Patten slaughter sales people.
Are you insured against property nation at said election, to-wit
loss shonld a storm like that of The election of two members of
Great Bend, Kans., Nov. 10, 1915, the Board of Directors for a term
visit yonr locality? This would be of three years.
i-Anl "nrpnurftdnflss" at low coat to For a nine months term
atsix (6) o'clock p. m., and the
following will be submitted to the
qualified voters for their , deter mi-
a
.ueiiciouB tour courw, mncneon john Carmichael came np from
D. R. Rowland was in Tuesdav the first part of the week here
and had bills printed for his visiting his mother, Mrs. D. Car-
Percheron horse and fine jack that michael and other relatives and
will make this season at his farm friends
school.
of
two miles west of town. He has
bought Kieffer 40002 (53011), a
fine imported stallion formerly
owned by Geo. Lloyd and a big
(- rln- f, Tn-.n-
... A proposition for a levy of a tax yonng jack raised by By. Lamme.
There are more cadets receiving of one hundred cents on each This is one of the finest eombina-
military training at the University $100.00 of the assessed valuation tions of breeding stock yon will
of Missouri at Columbia than,-at of the district for the purpose of find anywhere and farmers will do
West Point, the school where tbe maintaining the schools of the dis
united States government trains trict during the ensuing year.
oQcers for iti army. This year Done by order of tbe Boaid this
there are 647 men tn the university 17th day of Il&rch, 19 IS.
cadet corps.
W. S. Savage, 8ecrttary.
well to visit his stables if they
want to . raise tometLinir worth
while. The jack i four years
old, it&ndr fifteen lands high
and weighs 1000 poands.
To The PcMic
Notice is hereby given that I will
not be responsible for any debts
contracted by my wife, Sarah Cor
nett aftei March 11, 1916.
' J. C. COBXETT.
Spechls For Sstcriij
We have ordered for Saturday's
trade, strawberries, pie plant, to
matoes, tweet potatoes, raduhes.
green ontoss and lettnce. Come
earl. J. B. Pateick.
It was a shock to the community
last Wednesday morning when it
was learned that S. C. Kuhn had
passed away suddenly that morning
at his home three miles north of
Laclede. He had been complaining
some but was up, had breaskfast
and bad gone out to look after
some chores. He returned to the
house and informed Mrs. Kuhn that
he was feeling badly and directed
her to phone the doctor. Before
she finished the message he was
dead sitting in his chair.
Samuel Clifton Kuhn was born
in Hardin county, Ohio, May 19,
1867; came to Linn county in 1883,
and in 1892 was united ij marriage
with Miss Maggie Goslin who de
parted this life ten years later. He
was married the -second time De
cember 27, 1905, to Mrs. Nora
Dail, who, together with his
mother, three brothers and three
sisters, survive. Funeral services
will be held at the home Friday,
March 31, at 2 p. m., conducted by
Rev. Dueker, the deceased being a
member of the Laclede M. E.
church. Interment will be made in
the Linneus cemetery with I. O.
O. F. honors.
Cliff Kuhn was a good citizen,
honest and upright in dealing with
nis iellowmen. an industrious
armer and an honor to the com
munity where he had resided so
ong. The bereaved widow and
other relatives have the sympathy
of their many friends.
Mrs. Susan M. Hurlbut. for
many years a citizen of Laclede,
died at the home of her son, Oren,
at Barry, 111., last Saturday, March
25. The remains were brought to
Laclede Monday afternoon, the
funeral being held at the Methodist
church, the services being con
ducted by Rev. Geyer of Brookfield.
She was born in Illinois March 7,
1843, and came to Laclede with her
parents when a child and remained
here until ten years ago. In 1865
she was united in marriage with
Enos H. Hurlbut, who, together
with the two sons, Byron of Denver,
Colo., and Oren of Barry, 111., sur
vives her. She also leaves one
sister, Mrs. Sarah Mize of St.
Louis, and one brother, John A.
Crowder of Milan. A number of
relatives and friends from out of
town were in attendance at the
funeial, among them Mr. and Mrs.
Crowder from Milan, Mr. and Mrs.
J. D, Boyles, Mrs. Kate Brownlee,
Mrs. Flora Arnold and Mrs. Cora
Frakes.
Anna L., wife of J. A. Havens,
died at the family home a mile
southeast of Laclede last Tuesday
night after an illness of some
duration. She was 47 years of age
and is survived by tbe husband
and four daughters. The remains
were placed in charge of Director
Nichols and shipped to Browning
Thursday noon for burial.
John Preston Sharp died at his
home four miles soothfast of La
clede on Friday of last week. He
was born April 10, 1817, and was'
therefore 98 years, 11 months and
4 days old at the time of death.
and perhaps the oldest citizen of
the county. He had lived in this
county siccg 18 1.
Special for -Mar&ay, bananas 10c
doz. at 3. B. Tatrkk's.
