iti fatal
51ST YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY,
lie
Sentinel
0
3
MARCH 31, 1916. NIJMRER ,1S.
ait tii iiii-n t i
The New Point Post Office Safe it
Blown-.$15 is the
Booty.
t Postmaster George Lcntz, of the
cw i-oini posiwiico, ik !$h ilinrt in
M tifiwtnl fun.! mill ti l.tln t.n ...... -..
.u,....., iiimi 'i.ll.V IIV UII HC-
count for the shortage, he cannot give
HIV inline 111' MUNICH Ul mono WHO tOOK
It, but lie Ik fully satisclld an to their
last week, March 21, n terrific ex
tant week, .MiiitIi 2.", ii terrific ex
plosion wns licnnl In New IVInt by
many of the cltlr.cn.", who weie awaK
enrcl liy the noise, liul none ventuieil
not Inilti'MlMnllf ..r 1
'-" ft jnwmj iiiii'i, now
iV,'l tiuitfi n ,ii,ilm- ,,... I...
"iiit ipui uii lie,
street to investigate. Among tliee
m ucorgc i.eniz, general iiicrclmiit
mill tlOMtlilli.tnr. lit, will. ....... I .
. . ... ,,,,,, rl ,-, ,-ni
to his Kline, nnil lie fouml the rau-e
in inc expioMoti.
The fne In the Kline, which mik
nlo nfil in liin, r.n -..r.. i
...... ,v ni't'ii-
Ing or the postal funds, wbn foiiml to
nut- nccii iiiouii aim me inie iioor
tenn fiom Hk liltiKci. ami lay before
tut-Ill 1,14 mo nonr.
Only Sl.'i of postal funds wan In the
nf nt tin, ll,,i Tl.lu l., .... j. i
lor by the fact that .Mr. I.entr. makes
prompt remittance to Uncle Sam,
ami checks ami drafts he raicly keeps
in IiIk safe. No postage stamps or
other valuable pontal pioiierty wan In
the mi re.
An Noon a poKKible, .Mr. Lentr. p't
Shorlir (ielvln by telephone, ami lie
ami liU deputy. Kml Conk, vrn
mkiii on the kiiiuiiiI, mid an InveKtiKU
tlon n Ktaiteil, and all pnrtlrN weie
preventiil fnm i uterine or tramplnc
ni-otihil .the lueinlKOK. The llrlilce
man. Ilicelow bloiNl hound were call,
ii for and they wele kooii on the
fcene. beitiK brouKht over by auto.
, I he iloifi. not on the 1 1 nil Immed
iately, whlrh folloMed a lllit vehicle
track im fiir'iiK the i.encli .Mill, on the
.NiKlauny. the ilor colnc imo
iiiIIi-k, heie and theie, follow iriK the
trail; but, on account of the lain, the
trail win. llnnll) let.
1'iwtnl oIllclaN front the St. Jorepli
dlvlidiiii me niakini; lnvitlk'alion. It
In doubtful If the thief In ever rnunlil.
(in no definite clew exlMN, and the
amount taken In mi very Kinall.
The New Point iioMolllco wan rob
li once lii foiei UiIn wax on the nlxlit
of Sept. -JK, ibhs; .March L'l. liilti.
HlKclinv mti,ll,e wun iubbeil Oct.
lit. IlillSi $!.', wiin Krciiieil; April 27,
ISKIj $l"i In cauli and $100 in Munm
wan MCUIlll.
The Crnlif totolllce wbn robb.-d
Nov. 8, IHT.'i. Kinall amount of nihil
wiin taken. .March Kith, ItiOl; $:i(Hl In
eali mid KtnnipK taken. Homer Heed
win Riven - yeaiN for the lobbi'ry.
Jan. Hi. IPIIS. the poNtuuiKter wiin
eonlldciK'cd out of (CM) of poMal
funilN. Jan. T, IPOli, $JJi! wiin taken
from the oillce.
The I'oii'Nt City oillce wiin ioIiIkmI
on Sent. L'll, Ih'.il: the loot wbk II'
eentN In nihil mid SILT, in MampN.
April L'n. Ih'i.'l, a miuiII amount wiin
taken. A mail pouch was Ktolen rnnn
the ilepnt platform July IK!i:i.
The I'orbeN oillce was robbed Dec. I,
ISIMIj loot WBN Kliiall. Sept. 1H. JWW,
the cancellation KtampN belontjlni; to
the oillce were Ktolen.
1), II. S. NOTKS.
The laid Rnine of the basket ba',1
kcbmiii wiin played on the home court
with IliKclmv. The rcult wnN a vic
tory for the lllselow team. The Iio n
were well pleaded both from a tlnan.
cial Ktandiiolnt and number of KameN
won,.conNlderlnr that thin won the
llrKt year' playlntf for nearly all the
boyK. KnouKli prollt was made to pay
the rent on the baseball Held for the
comlnc Kcason to the end of kcIiooI.
It In honed that the patronaite will ho
as kooiI for base bull as It wbh for
basket ball.
On I'riday evcnlnir, March III,
at i:45, the literary Koclety will felve
mi entertainment, consisting of a pro
Kiam of music by the II. S. and one of
reading by Mm. Calkins, of St. Jo
Kcph. Mr. Calkins la the wife of Itev.
Calkins, who In known personally by
many of the. people of Oregon.
A letter was received by the II, 5.
from Kev. J. II, Thompson, former
pastor of the Oregon M. K. church,
i',ut, now.ut ltll(ccwnv, Jlcsoylng that
Helen IlarkncsH Calkins gavo a pro
gram In hU town which was one of
the best they had over had. She ha'N
given several programs In neighbor
ing towns and all were highly pleased.
Let every one who possibly can
came out Friday night. If we are to
have these cntortainments we must
hnvo tho patronage of the people. So
far tho support has been good. Let
u keep It going.
The Senior class had their second
meeting for tho consideration of a
class play on Tuesday of this week,
.Miss Inn llotkin Is to be tho director
this year. The members of this
year'N class are: Jay I'ctrec, Her
man Schulte, lister llallcy, llussell
lochtermnn, Henry fieil, I'rancia
DawKon, Kred Knnble, Ilyron Murray,
Mildred Koock, Mildred King, Oladvn
Moore, I.ucy Kllen llrown, Mary
I.acey, Margery Kitzmauricc, Kdlth
Hinde, ilnllio lluntz, Huth Dlssingcr,
llertha lieynolds.
Tho faculty and pupils wish to ex
tend their thanks to tho V, K, O.'s anil
tliu Woman's Union for tho aid In
furnishings for the new high school
building.
o 1
George V, I tinkle and Miss Hor
tense It. Simpson, of the Forest City
neighborhood, wcro married in Kan
sas City, Monday, March 20. Tho
Sentinel joins with their many friends
in congratulations.
PB & :&5f. WBW
NeWS SlMDshotS rmntei. Cetiernl IVrldim'H pnni..- r.iilll.ni Into .Mexl.n iiuiiIikI MIIii piend out Into three llnt to eni
AC At. nt t on" the biilidll. Trm on of the enemy were met wit Ii but mi kIiiiuI wu luiole iilmiIikI llie .luerlinli. ultl uli ('i.l.iiiiiM tloop.
Of ihe' Week, "rklntf lioriliwnnl. piu Unlit to VIlln nml Arnuiii.ii.i. mi-,. ml In iiiiiuiii.l of the IminllK. In i:iimK' the llutitlnif iimuml Venliin
loiillniuM.wllli le e el ll, while tieriiintiy'M elien let met In I'urlt In futm u ilo.er elilelile. Iiemletl bv I'leinler Itiliinl of
I nmce. I ollowpis the plnclui! of Admiral mhi CuN'lle ut the head of the lleri, .,n mivy. Inill..,,. ml-en w'd.li nre wotklna Io'mihI fh.iini llor tun
Itettnuiimidlollweg Int. rellreiuciit mid restore Von Tlrplu (imeinor lliiMou r tiidlnmi iiniiinl 'riiouin Tiisitnil l kiiitciiI the hue .eii.inr Sl Uely In
the prepatedneM llclil In iiuiitrmx Hie bill Intlien-d liy ltcnteuliillte Mat of Nilnlu f,.i the eiiliiruelneiit of Hie iirmy wn k
ciitciir t'ontT.
Vhe Citriilt Cotirl In now In seNNloi.
In ncconlmiee with adjournment two
weeks ago. nnd Judge Humes is liy
inir to do what he can to clear the
docket as far as posi-ible. Hut few
ciisck have been tiled,
The following ran'N havo been dls-
poMil of up to the time of going to
press:
laylor J. l.innlcn vs. Allen Louden.
et nl; partition. Motion of rnnn'o
Orr and Win. Orr t.i lie imule nnrtles
defemlnntN and Kubrogated to the in
teres t or l-.loe-sie I racey,and her Iiik
baud; sustained.
It. W. Jessun vn. t. . Mr lona i !
d.iinaget. I'laintlir hits leave to llle
amended petition.
Kllimn Stcnlii'llum vs. Jesre Cor-
drey; ituiingc. Contlnueil to Mu
term.
tileene & dieene vn. .In. Ii. Hlow.i!
KUlt on routrart. Continued to Mnv
term.
All the raves of the naitles blink
ing KUit against the ('.. II. A- (. rail
load for ilaiiuiLTH alleired to have
been rauseil to cron bv the overt ov
of r.H.'i were roiitlmiel to the .May
term.
A. W. aiiCamn vs. IIul-Ii Can:
suit on note. Continued for want of
M-i-vlce.
Jno . I-. Iden and JmiieN Hunker vs.
ilns. I'. IthodcN: ejectment. tUintinucd
to May term.
In tlie ease of petition for incorpor
ation of Squaw Creek Dialnnge l'i-
trirt .No. . oliJectorN llle plea to Jul I
diction. This motion was aigued at
b ngth TiieMlny afternnon and even
ing by W. II. ItlclmrdN for the tieti-
tioneiN and Judge O'l'allon for the
objectors. The couit has It under ad
visement. William (i. Andes vn. John II. Shin-
ley; there were two nuIIs, mid on a
note. I lie Jury gave a verdict for
plalntlir in both rases one for $1001).
and the second for $'J.'0(l.
.ilnrtln tiiaham vs. Kdwrad Fostei :
contract. Motion for cost bond sus
tained: plalntlir hns :)() ilavs In widen
to tile bond.
Die suit or Jnmes (',. Trncv vs.
Mnthlas Thomas In a suit for ilam-
ageN alleged to have occurred to the
plalntlir by reason of the defendant'.!
having Insecurely, as the plalntlir al
leges, repaired a certain place in the
puinic roan, Known as tun "lllull
road," between Mound City and For
est City. I'lnlntlll is a doctor, and
uses an automobile in attending his
patients at dilTcrcnt places. The de
fendant, it Is alleged, In a member of
the County Highway Hoard of Holt
County, and that he, himself, with the
aid of his agents, servants and em
ployes, "unlawfully, carelessly and
negligently attempted to repair"
said road aad widen the same, so that
travelers could avoid a mudhole ad
jacent thereto, and that, in doing so,
they cut down certain Osage orange
hedge trees on the slilo of tho road,
so that the stumps thereof protruded
and extended several Inches above the
surface of the ground, nnd piled
hedge brush and lonso dirt in and
around nnd upon said stumps, in an
unlawful and careless and negligent
manner, so that said stumps were par
tially obscured from tho view of
passersby, and so that said portion
of the road bad tho appearance of
being safe and suitable for the public
to travel, but that, In truth ami fact
was unlit, unsafe and dangerous fur
travel by reason of the paid Muinni;
hedge brush nnd loose dirt so care
lessly placed nnd left there, I'laln-
HIT says that on the day of July,
1!)15. lie was drivinir his automobile
along said portion of said highway,
and that said loose dirt and brush col
lapsed and gavo wav. and that his
automobile ran into and collided with,
said stumps, badly damaging nml,
wrecking his said automobile, so that
ho could not uso the same for severul
weeks; and Hint Jie was compelled to
cxpeml tho sum of $27.47 for repairs
thereto and installing the same, etc.,
and that ho was deprived of the use
of his said automobile so long because
thereof, that ho paid out $05 for other
means of conveyance, making a total
of $292.47, for which ho 'asks judg
ment. Caso was beard by a Jury,
which gave a verdict for tho defend
ant. Tho jury was discharged Wennes-'
lay. but the court was in session at
the time of our going to press.
I!iink Are Thiiiuliig.
After a long Illness Willlnm ('.
Opel, a veteian of the civil war, for
oer 1(1 .Mil l a resident of Holt
count), and in all these jears hu
grown to bo lecogulriil lis one of out
Very Ik-sI eillxens, giently e.tcemH
Ii) nil who Knew liiin, iliiil nl his home
in this city, Sntuidii). Minrli 'J.'. HUH.
He wiin for enrs, since Ih.'iS, Identi
fied with the Cerinnii M.. '.. rhuieli,
and until ovii taken by tho-lnllriuitii h
of uge, was ever active In this wolk.
lining Ms pint to iiilvnuce the cause
of his MnMcr.
Mr. Opel wn bom in I'nvariii. !e.--mnny.
November II. IS.".7. mid wiin
tlierefoio in his 7itli eur at his
denlh. He eanie to his adopted coun
try, hunting in New Yolk, in IK.M,
after n Vox age of p.", days. He lo
cated in I i nit n i' county, Indiana,
wheie lie eiiguged In farming, nnd vi
the curling on of the Civil Win, lie
enlisted in the 7th Indlmin lndintl .
mid paitlripntrd in many of the lie
poitant battles in which the army of
the I'otomar was engaged, being
wounded at the battle id the "Wilder
lies." '
lie wiin innriied to Catherine
Triiiitmiin, October I, IMit, in hull
nun, and ill the fall of IM'.M, he nnd
wife lemoved to Woodfoid county,
Illinois, where they resided until IS7I,
when the family lemoved to Morris
county, Kansas. In the full of 1K7I
they cnine tn Holt county, locnting In
Nodaway township, in the lilchville
district. In IMH Mr. Opel nml wife
retlied from nrtlve farm life, and pur
chased a cozy little home In Oregon,
where they alone with the coinpanliei
ship of their little grnndsou, tieoige
I'olly, liuve spent their rapidly declin
ing years. Mr. Opel is survived uy
his wHe, mid three children Lewis
W id High Itlver, Caunda; George
W in Ciillfninlii, and Mrs. Anna C.
Lewis, or Sndorus, Illinois. A daugh
ter, Mrs. John I'olly, died in St. Jo
seph, April r,, liHKi. Father Opel h
also survived by six grandchildren,
one brother and one sister.
Funeral services were held rrom the
Methodist Church, on Tuesday 2Kth
Inst., conducted by his pastor, Hev. W.
L. Meyer, of the (iermnn M. K. church,
who wiin assisted by Itev, T. I). Hub
erts. Mr. Opel was a member of Meyer
Post, (!. A. It,, which sent a beauti
ful tloral token, nnd he was buried In
Maple Grove cemetery, with the
honors of the Grand Army of the Ite
public. A detail from the Sons of Veterans
acted as the poll bearers.
Sure, They Are Married.
Dr. Henry Minton, Jr., son of the
late Dr. J, It. Minton, is a married
man, but it was not generally known
that he had become a benedict but
he has.
On September 4,, last, 11115, the
Doctor and. Miss Kdna Dunn, of St.
Joseph, were married in Kansas City,
and in a day or two tho Doctor left
his young bride, kissing her a fond
good-bye, leaving her with her pa
rents at St. Joseph, and took his de
parture for Cortland, Oregon, wheie
tho Doctor entered a medical college
and began his studies. The marriage
all this time has been kept a secret
from the more interested parties un
til the past week, when It was made
known by tho young wife, by inform
ing her parents she was going to
Portland to join her husband.
The husband is a nephew of Mrs.
W. II. Alkire, of this city, nnd Mrs.
Minton came up last week for a visl
with her aunt, and remained until
Tuesduy of this week, when she took
her departure for Portland to Join her
husband.
o
NEW IMI'ltOVKMKNTS.
Kennedy & I'ullen, contractors an. I
builders, report contracts closed for
the following new residences, addi
tions ami other Improvements:
A second story to be added to the
Will Schulte home, nnd the houso to
bo made modern and up-to-date In
eevry respect,
John Nocllsch, a new residence, 2
stories, 34x34, 8 rooms, with all mod
ern improvements.
Mrs, Flora Hinde, a handsome new
porch.'
Mrs. John Hibbard, bath room,
kitchen, etc.
lil'.MI'.MIIHtt Till: IIIG SNOW.
I 'Hi) Year AunTml.t) a Great Slorin
Sitepl liter Alt 'I lib. I'.irl of
the Coiinlri.
i I'mty jenrs ngo today Mimh 27.
I - ii -ii it heavy miou and win I
t' 'im. a storm so iiiiusii:iI that it i
sill vividly lemembeied nnd ofton
s "iki'ii of by persons old enough to
i" nil it. swept iioitliwestein .Mis-
, ' "Hi nnd iioitlieusteiu Kansas. Thcro
'!! only two or three wiulher rn'
" l kept in this pint of the country
n' Hint lli"i'. I'll m the one kept Ii
"vitun, Mo., by William Kiuulier.
! Hier of Livn iH'i' Kauclier, of St.
t" eph. Mo., the following eutiy Tor
II nt date is taken:
'Intermittent lulu nnd sleet on li e
'.'ih, turned to snow nt " u. in. of the
th. The snow continued to Tall all
t nt dav and night until 2 a. in. of
' ie 2Mb. (In the iiiorniug id the
-Mil, the nveinge depth id snow u.i
'lie ground on the level wns llfteei
inches. Their wele drifts Ihiee to
four feet dtcp."
Geoige Texlor. of P2:i North Fifth
-tiiit, kiiin that on nccoiint of the
IiIl'Ii wind, fnllin tires, deep ililll...
mid bffluliug snow, he win tumble to
go from his stme downtown to his
home on Noilli Fifth stieet the ulglit
of Mulch 27. After making seveud
unsuccessful utteinpls to llnd his wuv.
he I etui iti-il to t In- stole and leimilned
there all night.
During the storm the temperatui
wns only a few degrees below flee
Ing. Much or the snow incited within
a few tlajH, but the ill in two Teel
deep weie noted nt Oiegon April K
and Hie drift did not all disappear
until Ihe middle of April. News
I'less, St. Joseph, .Mo.,Mnicli 27, l'.Hil.
From an Old Friend.
Mrs. .Mary l McKnight, a form
er resident of this city, writes u a
follows from Sioux City, Iowa, her
present home, under dnte or March
2.'): "We aie having a little snow this
morning. We nre all well. Sioux
City Is prospering under prohibition
laws, and the equal suirrage law-,
which Is being opposed by our unti
suirraglst organisation, lately organ
iied, announces Itcelf ready for argu
ment, but 1 do not think any notleo
Is being taken of it. As Mrs. Stan
ton said, more than 40 years ago,
In the court house at Oregon, "wo
man suirrage Is coming as sure as th"
sun rises and si-Ik." And my bus
band said after hearing Mrs. Stanton,
"No man enn nuswer that argument--I
am going to vote for her for Presi
dent," My sympathies are with my
home states Ohio and Missouri, in
the struggle for prohibition nnd equal
sulfrage."
Klmsey School Closed,
On Friday, March 24, Corte Mead
own closed a very successrul term or
school at Klmsey, Mr. Meadows U
one of the best Instructors In the
county.
It was a stormy day, but a larjce
crowd of patrons of the district
showed their interest In the school by
coming through" the rain, bringing
well llllcd baskets. After every one
had ate of the many gooil things
which the ladles of Kimey sum can
prepare, tables were cleared away,
and we then listened to an Interesting
program prepared by teacher and pu
pils. Y. I'. A. Notes.
Mrs. Charley Jlartram was the
leader of a very interesting meeting
last Sunday. Her subject was on
"Home Missionaries. The uttendanro
was good, and all enjoyed tho duet
sang by Miss Ituby llunna.and her lit
tlo brother, Master James.
The meeting next Sunday will bo
led by Mr. Charley Slagley. Tho topic
will be, "The Consecration of Time."
These meetings are well worth at
tending, Come, you nre welcome.
KALI'II FItY.
i Itoy Campbell and family left
(Tuesday of this week for Holyokc,
, Colorado, where they expect to make
I their future homo. Sorry, Indeed, to
i lose such people.
Ilhilii.ir).
Frank Sipes. of I'm he, passed
nwii) Match 21. I'.tltt. He wn- hoi-ii
October itl, ls:i, in Indiana. He
served bis country In the Civil War
for time yeais. having joined the
ill on in He moved to Missoini
in IMit. He was inuitled to Flu i
belli ('niter. Fiom this union wns
born tlllee bo,v mid one gill, nil of
whom lire ilcnd but one- Aim Sipes
who lives ill CoIoiiiiIii. Ills second
wife wn Cntherine IManl. Fiom
till inariiiige was bom eight rhll-dien-
thiee Isiy and live gills- ef
whom two boys nnd two gills ii'iiiiiin
to liinani the loss id n futlier. l-'imik
Sipes wn laid ntv(i) Mulch 2.' In the
I'nlhe leuietery. A III! go eourolll r
of friend weie piesent. nnd the fa
mi'liir loi in that wn- ilail seen on
our stieet pa, rd from view.
J. G. .
I're.litteii.iu ( liurth Nolo.
The annual coiigiegitiniin1 meeting
win no Hem next Miiulny inormng nt
II o'clock. Hi poll will be hin-'l
fioui tho various iiiganirtilion of the
chinch, nnd nil elder is to be elected.
Also mi) other inalliT that an
member may wish to bring up will -coiisiilcied.
Fmij member is ing.l
ami all filemls of the congregation
llle invited to be pieseut.
1'ieachliig nt "::ill p. pi. ChiiMlati
Fndeavor at li::tlt. Miss liiith Allen
is the leader; subject, "The Consecra
tion or Time." I'siilm. Pll:l-17. This
is the nioiithly rniisecration meeting.
The Missionary society meets net
Weiliii'Mlay nt the home or Mrs. G.
W. Cummins nnd will be cntcitulnul
by Mrs. Cummin, Mrs. K. S. MeDon
nld and Mrs. Howl.
T. A. CI.AGiriT, Pastor.
W. F. M. S. id M. II. Church.
Meeting with Mrs. Will Morris, on
April 7.
Lender Mrs. Hunker. Topic, "On"
limit. One Way. Ihe King's High-
way," chapter f.
Korean Woikmen, Mrs. Cuuipbell.
"Ily File and Smoke," Mrs. Will
Tlllery.
Union Woik Fnll In! March! Mn.
Teaie.
Mystery llox, Leader.
SFCItKTAItY.
n
Kv angelical.
There wll bo pleaching service at
the Nirkell's Grove church on Sun
day morning at 11 o'clock, and in the
Oregon rhuieli nt 7:30 p. in. No
fill ther announcements will be imule
at this time, but we will try to have
things sufllricntly in bund next week
and thereafter to keep the public fully
Informed. W. C. JOHNSON,
Pastor.
Don't rorgct the Literary tonight
(Friday). An extra good program.
Hon. K. J. Kellogg, of Craig, at
tended court in Oivgon, tills week.
Are you helping the social center
movement at tho high school at 7:45
tonight (Friday).
D. A. Gelvin nnd Joseph Col
llson, of Mnitland, wcro in Oregon
this week, attending court.
Mrs. M. L. Hatch, of Omaha,
Ncb is visiting here, tho guest of
her son, Hubert Hatch and family.
100 enscs of eggs wero shipped
from Oregon, Monday of this week,
by our grocers, and the total realized
was $ r ." r.
Mrs. Littleton Darnell, of Mound
City, is visiting her parents, It. W.
Kennedy nnd wife, and othijr rela
tives. Mrs. J. C. Whltmer has returned
from a few days' visit with her pa
rents, C. W, FroiUham mid wifo, of
Savannah.
Albert II. Hanks, of Oregon, and
Miss Florcnco Wyatt, of St. Joseph;
John Hall, of Forest City, and Helen
Harvey, of St. Joseph, obtained mar
riage licenses in Kansas City, March
21st.
ChriB Fuhrman and wlfo went to
St. Joseph, Thursday of last weok,
and celebrated the first birthday of
their, grand-daughter, Mary Elizabeth
Hamm, daughter of Mr, and Mrs.
Colo Hamm.
Mi)er Po-t, (1. A. It.
It bat been the custom or our com
rade, 0. W. Cummins, and his good
wire In the pnsl Kevernl years to en
teitnln the members or Meyer Pot on
the anniversary or Comrade Cum
mills' blrthiln), and a his 72d mile
stone wa ri ached on this 2Mb day of
March, HtlC, the following romrndcK
answeied the roll rail Inst Saturday,
March 23. IPIll: (1. W. Cuininliu,
N. II. Hanlumn, liobt. Montgoiu.
cry. A. W. VnnCanip, Dan Znch
man. Dan Kimkel, Fled Maikt. TVC.
idler. II. F. Morgan, F. S. Morgan.
Win. Turnhnin. .lolm .I.,. I, n
Dobyns, Karl Cooper, Henry Peiet,
Tom Frey. Hev. T. D. Cohorts.
( omuimiiler ( umiiiin rallid the
l'o-t to order; player by Chaplain
llniiloinn; minutes hut meetlin? rend
nml npproved.
We have Just hi aid of the pa. Ing
nwa of our i hinud ronirmle. W.
('. Opel. On motion of Comrada
I ion) ii,. iwi, or our iiuiuiior weie tie
tinleil to wun on .Mis. Opel to know
her wishes u to the Post taking part
in the funeuil; motion carried and '
the mill rr of Hie dii drtnlleil Com
lades II. F. Morgan mid Daniel Znch
man. ()ll the final Will of III,- older. II
clipping from tin lown paper entitled
"Patriotism Wmlli While. nlo u
clipping 1 1 ini u St. Loul paper. "The
I'll ing of Hie Veterans, wns lend.
We had some Interesting discussion
mid leiiilnifceiice b) Comrniles Unbolt-.
Montgomery, VnnCanip and
uiikoi.
Cniiiiail" Hiiuiil Ziichmmi extended
mi invitation to the Post to unit t,t
In home on our iig.nar meeting in
Mil), mid ( Co'iiiinle Dam,! Kunkel,
to Hunt at In- homo iigultr meeting
in June, nil id which Inv itntion wele
entliusiiistlcnll) ticicptod.
.Miw conies Mter ( nmioiiis tu.d h'T
dailithter, Mi's. Seelig. with gleeling...
ami pin n hcuiitiriil ill mil ion on the
liica-t or each romrnde, and invites
- us to the dining room, wheie we mo
sented lit two table. We have with
us at the table as our guest. 1,'ev.
Clligitt. Pastor of the Pierb)tcrlliu
chinch, who invoked the blesring, ami
we me serveil with an elegant lunch-
I eon, Ihe table mid iooiiih lire tnti
roll) dit'oratiil with tlowers and (lag.
Nothing stirs the heait of un old Vet
veteimi mine than to sit or stand tin
der the fold of Old Glory.
Ml. ( uuiinin wn- le-slsted by Mrs.
Seelig, Mrs. Guy ( 'nullum, and Mir.
Iliniy Diingaii. The customary sa
lute of time times time wns given,
nnd n vqt,' of t'linik returned for our
pleiiMiut eiileitiiinnieiit, wishing for
Mr. mid Mr. Cummin, iiiuny peace
ful years.
Of course, Ciimiiidc Kunkel bad to
slug ".Marching Thtouidi GeoiL-la."
mid we nil Joined in the chntu ami
niljouineil. I'. S. MOKGAN.
Aitjiltant.
Next week the Sentinel will pub
lish a "W'llte-llp" of the splendid di
piny of school woik, sent In to the
county meeting, nt Mound City, hut
Miliililay, liy the school clillilien or
Holt county.
We gientlv enlovcd n visit lait
Sntiililny, from I 'inf. I.hiwl Thatrhei,
who is now in rlinige or Ihe I ihimiIi
ilated High School, No, I. ami wo
ate plened to hiii n from patrons of
(lie illstilrt that lie In making gooil In
every way.
I'M McFarlnnil and wife ami IM
Caterl and wife, have returned flnm
.St. Itcroln, Neliiiiska, where they lit -tended
the funeuil or their grund
mother. Mrs. Nancy Jane Kinney.
vi hose obltunry lippcai'N elsewheie III
tins issue.
Mrs. Adair, living on the Mm.
Cnsandy Rclley place, in the Union
district, accidentally fell Monday, .f
tills week, .March .,, ami lirnke hvr
leir. Dr. Wood was called nnd lend-
ered the necessary medical attention
and lellef.
James Fulton, or Hebron. Neb.,
many years ago a resident of Oregon,
was visiting here, this week, the gue.t
of his uncles, G. W, nnd James K.
Cummins, and Ids aunts, Mrs. It. C.
Anderson and Mrs. A. Vanllusklrk
and family.
Licenses tn marry were Issued In
Kansas City yesterday to Albert II.
Hanks, of Oregon, Mo., nnd Florence
M. Wyatt, of St. Joseph, mid John
Hall, of Forest City, Mo and Helen
Harvey, of St, Joseph. Knnsas City
Star, .March 21.
Tho many friends of Mrs, Ilonniu
Tays, or St, Joseph, will regret to
learn that lier neaiiii lias oecome sucn
that an operation wns found to bu
necessary, and which she underwent
Tuesutiy or last ween, deports say
she is doing as well as could be ex
pected. ,
W eed II in c. of Kansas City. H
hero with his mother, convalescing
from a severe attack of typhoid rover.
Weed never was very thick, and now
he resembles a bean pole more than
ever. His many friends here will be
glad to loam that he Is on tho road
to permanent recovery.
The Itoy Campbell sale, held on
Match 23, near Oregon, was one, If
not the best sales, ever held in tho
county for top-notch prices on every
thing. Chickens brought $1.10 a hend;
roosters, 2,10 j sows averaged ?.t
ncr head: milk cows as lilirh ns SI 00.
and of course, Col, P. M, Ilabb wns
the auctioneer.
Georco Oncl. of Hlch Itlver. Can
ada, but for tho past few, month's a
resident of near Los Angeles, Califor
nia, whero he has been for his health,
arrived in Oregon, Monday evening,
to be In attendance at his father's
funeral, W. C. Opel, who died March
25. George will remain here for a
time with his mother, before return
ing to nts nomo in Canada.
