THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 14.
DAKKK. VERMONT, FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1910.
PRICK, OXK CKXT.
BEATEN
FRENCH
RETIRED
Lost Village of Malancourt
After the Place Had Been
Reduced to Ruins and
After a Fierce Infantry
Battle, Which Lasted All
Night
pihjt, boat Philadelphia, which immedi
ately responded to the call and took the
small bout in tow disregarding the
threats of Schiller, who threatened to
shoot anybody who laid a hand on him.
Schiller wan captured later.
LITERACY TEST
BILL PASSED HOUSE
ARE STILL HOLDING
THE OUTSKIRTS
Were Forced to Withdraw
from the Village Itself Be
cause Positions Became
Untenable The Germans
Failed to Carry by Assault
Their Lost Position in
Avocourt Wood
Paris, March 31. The Germans deliv
ered a fierce night attack on three sides
of the village of Malancourt, says the
French official statement to-day, and the
French retired from the village proper,
which was in ruins. They continued,
however, to hold the outskirts. The
fierce infantry fighting lasted for the en
tire night before the French withdrew
from their untenable positions in the vil
lage itself.
There Was Overwhelming Majority of
308 to 87 and Perhaps Enough to
Pass Bill Over Possible
Veto.
AVashington. 1). C, March 31. The
Burnett immigration bill, with ita lit
eracy tent and Asiatic exclusion pro
visions unchanged, paused the House yen
tcr.lav bv a vote of 308 to 87. It now
goes to tlio senate, where iavoraDie ac
tion is regarded as assured.
The literacy tet, about which the fight
against the bill had centered, was bus
taiticd 2K4 to 107. This provision has
been the cause of vetoes of similar im-
migration bills by President Cleveland,
Taft and Wilson. The House passed the
bill over the Cleveland veto, but it failed
in the Semite. Motion to override the
vetoes of President Taft and Wilson
were lost in the House by narrow mar
gins. -
liepresentative Burnett, chairman of
the immigration committee, predicted
last 1 night that there was sufficient
strength to repass the bill in the event
of another veto. The president has not
indicated his purpose to the House lead
ers.
Roth record votes both on the literacy
test and on the passage of the bill were
without regard to party lines. Majority
Leader Kitchin voted for the literacy test
and for the bill. Minority Leader Mann
voted against the literacy test and then
for the bill.
The literacy test as adopted would ex
clude all aliens over 16 veers old. physi
cally capable of reading, who cannot read
English or some other language, except
certain relatives of persons already in
this country and certain classes of refu
gees from religious persecution.
VILLA DODGES
AS LINES CLOSE
IN UPON HIM
Bandit, Closely Pursued, Is
Heading Southeastward
to His Old Headquarters
in San Andres and May Be
'Cut Off Before He Can
Reach Haven
PERSHING'S CAVALRY
GOES SOUTH OF HIM
Detachment of U. S. Troops
Is Believed to Be to South
of Guerrero, Where on
Wednesday Villa Is Re
ported to Have Massacred
172 Carranza Men
placed about their neeks and they were
jerked into the air, but were not permit
ted to die. Just when loss of sensibility
approached they would le lowered to
earth with demands that they reveal the
lulling places of homes said to be hitmen
a omit the ranch.
J here were no horses so ,ur as inves
ligation ha discliwed. 1 lie prisoners
also were offered their lives if they would
tell where money was hidden or point
out valuable documents.
After several mock hangings, Villa or
dcred the live men taken into the garden
where oach one was shot five times. To
the resident of the ranch, all Mexicans,
Villa said:
"You may bury them or not, as you
please.
l hey were all mined in one grave
after Villa left.
Itefore going. Villa led one male mem
ber of the family, Gregorio, jr., aged 21.
hark to the young main mother and
said to hen
"I am going to leave you this one son
to support you. You ought to thank me
for leaving him.
Next the bandit imprisoned each of the
workmen on the ranch, placing them in
separate rooms. When he had them all
locked up, he went to each one In turn,
warning him in these words;
I am coming back and if I don t re
turn someone else will come in my place.
Whoever comes will kill anvone here
whom he finds working for Americans."
SALE IS SANCTIONED.
DEAD SILENCE ON
REQUEST OF GERMANY
Washington Hears Nothing from Ambas
sador Concerning His Inquiry if
German Vessels Torpedoed
Sussex and Englishman.
Washington, D. C, March 31. Chair
man Stone of the Senate foreign rela
tions committee and Chairman Flood of
Waterbury Light & Power Co. to Mont-
pelier and Barre Co.
Sanction for the transfer of the prop
erties, rights, privileges and franchises
of the Waterbury Light !t Power com
pany was granted yesterday by the Ver
mont public service. commission on condi
tion that the purchasing company as-
. .. 1 1 . 1- . c i i i . e 1 1
El Paso, Texas, March 31 .-Francisco u, "ra 'uraKge "
Villa has crossed the great continental i"-'" intniming ,.....,
rlividi, ,.,! i. l,..J,Ii.r .mitiii.fl.it. t, Ills i conijiituy iiiiiucr iiSHUllie niiu
old headquarters at San Andre., accord- W 7 1 outstanding obltga-
ing to reliable information received to-jtl0ns "f the terbtiry Light & Tower
vs j , JlCtU IUHI v IU IiUiv Vimcw i , , . , . . a a til a.
hein aroused an,,, more on the border .. -U the "Win on the petition held at
TWO FAILED
TO GET OUT
As Flames Spread Through
Their Home at Law
rence, Mass.
TWO MORE PERSONS
WERE BADLY BURNED
An Apartment Building De
stroyed and Adjoining
House Damaged
Lawrence, Mass., March 31. Two lives
were lost, two persons were badly buniod
and heavy property damage was done
this morning by a fire which destroyed
one building and partially burned an
other.
The Dead:
MRS. AAROX A. CT'RRIER.
MISS ELI A CURRIER.
The Badly -Wounded:
DAVID CT'RRIER.
MRS. JAKE KATZ.
The fire broke out in the home of the
irriers in a building owned by Jake
Katz.' Mrs. Currier and her daughter
were burned to death as they slept. 0a
vid Currier, nged J, managed to get out
of the burning building but was serious.
CHURCH OPTIMISM
WAS PROPOSED
Supt. Lowe of St. Johnsbury District
Urged Methodists to Talk Up Their
Church and Not Talk It
Down. "
The forenoon session of the Methodist
church conferenco being held in Montpe
lier was almowt entirely devoted to the
reading of tho annual reports of Super
intendenta Lowe and Dukcshire of tho
St. Johnsbury and St. Albans districts.
Bishop Hamilton presided at the open
ing of the session and followed out the
custom which was adopted the opening
day, of giving a 10-minute talk to the
members.
Yesterday afternoon Miss Grace Ttora-
bark of Canaan, Conn., "addressed the
onference on the Woman's Home Mis
sionary society, explaining in detail the
work which has been accomplished by tho
society during the past year, her knowl
edge beiu'T intimate because of her activ
ity in ( oni.ecliint.
She was followed by Rev. Ward Piatt,
AUTOIST LOST
DAMAGE SUIT
A Verdict Returnee ,f
Fred A. Millan
County Coir
'.st
ORDERED TO f
$154.5AMAGES
Mrs. Nina lovely of More-
town Sued for $3,00C as
Result of Collision ' .
The jury in the case of Mis. Nina
u. u., oi rnimueipnia, who ...seussea inei, . , , Mortown ,,, ,,.,, -
.niinr ""l ""'en inn huiiiuii sueu ior J,-
iii a liodv. Chancellor Hamilton spoke on
tho duties of the board of education and
the advances being made by Methodist
schools throughout the country and Dr.
Iieake spoke on Sunday school work.
To-night Bishop Hamilton will lecture
the city hall auditorium on "Some
Persons of Quality in Boston."
J he meeting ot the larinen s associa
tion and lay electoral conference of the
ly burned. Mr. and Mrs. Katjs occupied church opened at 10 o'clock this forenoon
work of the board of home missions and
hurch extension work. Chanci
Franklin Hamilton,
n j
t.011, IJ, v., BIIU It-V. I.UU.I IH-aivi:, J.'. .,..1: , , .
f fl,;,.n -,.r i.L,in.'. .tK-ntm "'..J'u"ll,nllr junction, wnen an auto.
and their remarks were confined to edu- , " if ""I1 (lriv,c', Mf' . M,ll"u
e.tinni hr.,.l.,w f ,, r1,r,4, wnrL- t.h : UB"ru "owe-urawn venicie oc-
talks being especially directed to .Mont
pelier seminary students, who attended
, nil' of WasheinL'!0,K, d,iranK the result of an acci
i Filirlrl ake D D dL'nt 0,1 tl,e MuWl road lant summer
V. f.dgar Kiake, U. V., Montnelier .Innetl..... t..i u..
' 1 I 11 . . . .
talks being especially directed to Mont- ;lVIJ'lu I'ii. reaction u ver:
,.iio. c.;..r ...i..na Uon,l0,l '" '"st evening in favor of the plaiiitilf
The Germans again triad to carry by , the House foreign affairs committee went
. ... . , ,-,; ,.,i,,--t, ,u vr.r.y, over the submarine situation fully with
had won back in the Avocourt wood, but
they were repulsed,
the night was calm.
East of the Me use
Berlin, via London, March 31. The
capture of the village of Malancourt in
the Verdun region, west of the Meuse,
was announced by the war office to-day.
The Germans took 328 prisoners
Secretary of State Lansing to-day. The
situation with Germany was described
officially as not being imminent and it
was said that the two committee chair
men did not visit the Btate department
by the renewal of the possibility thut HrttlelK,ro March 22, ,t was set forth by
tlie bandit may 1 trapped before he can i lhea"1 Pet:t,0!"" ipny. accordmg
swing south of the Perilling squads. ",'B " '" 'JV "'.ce com-
The American troop, sleeping don ! nl,SMon- tI.'at 'tthe Montpelier 4 Barre
from the north on the caste n ide of I '"la) ' able to meet all
the divide should be, by all caloumlions, I uho.i ues; mar a a or irs
within striking distant of Hangeroni-! ;,to(k ,Is.n,ow; ne t,,e Montpelier &
mo ranchwhere the bandit was l,t " L,ht & P?w,'r BP"y; that the
known to be. Another detachment of j tor comp.rnv i engaged in the b.isi
Pershing's cavalry is believed to have ! J"." mflmifacturmg and selling elec
swung southeast from Madera, passing ' irmtJ "r'1.pht' eat; anJ P; "
well touth of (iuerrero, where Villa j, . ""nt; th.t m order to operate the prop-
said to have massacred 172 Carrauza ' ' lw "t.vlrnv n
the other apartment in the building and
Mrs. Katg also received burns as she
tied from the flames.
After completely enveloping the Katz
residence the flumes jumped to tho house
of Joseph Walworth nearby and that
was badly damaged before the firemen
brought the lire under control. The to
tal loss is estimated to be $50,000.
Firemen Think There Were Two Fires.
The authorities later announced that a
thorough investigation is being made 011
the strength of reports of incendiarism
The firemen said t-liat the blaze in the
Walworth residence apparently started in
strikin-" for Cerro intPrrnl J"tr.t of )e other properties now the cellar and was not due, as far as as
Prielo in the hone of cutting off the!ow,,,'d ,t", Montpelier 4 Barre
brigand from the southeast which is Pr,.-! ","1',an' , '"re to,h,w. 'nforrel to
sumably closed by several thousand men : ll B".of ,P PWIwtie. rights pnvileges
whom tieneral Gutierrez is said to hae!"n,! fra"("''m" hp. tt,,,f TT
lliny; iimi. u inis ne permiiieu, ine
Montpelier Barre Lurht A Pawer com-
in the district around Chihuahua.
.The Massacre of 172 Carranzistas.
San Antonio,, aMrch 31. After killing
pany will assume all the existing obliga
tions of the Waterbury Light 4, Pawer
by appointment but had gone apparent- 'every one of the 172 men in the garrison company incoming one Hundred and rive
lv scekrii-' information for iruidunce of lftt Guerrero, Francisco Villa moved north- nioiisand f iu..wh!) dollars per value or
ward Wednesday and now is somewnere ( " ""'kw x ie naieroury
near the head waters of the Santa Marin ! company now outstanding, which said'stroyed their home here Tuesday morn
BRITISH CASUALTIES IN MARCH
Amounted to
1,107 Officers and 19,317
Men.
London, March 31. The British casual
tics in March, as compiled from the pub
lished lists, amounted to 1,107 officers
end 19,317 men.
CAPTOR OF SHIP
BOASTS SELF
GERMAN SPY
Ernest Schiller Who Single-handed Cap
tured British Steamer Will Have
to Be Tried for
Piracy.
Lewes, Del., March 31. Ernest Schil
ler, the young German who captured the
British steamer JLatoppo and terrorized
the crew of 5(1 men Wednesday night
shortly after the crew had sailed from
Xcw Vork with railroad supplies for Rus
sia, declared to-day he was u spy for the
German government.
"Yes, 1 am a spy for the German gov
ernment," he said; "I got instructions
from the German government to go
aboard to blow her up to prevent the
cargo from reaching Russia. I could have
blown her up, but the captain s plea for
his wife and daughter was too much for
me and I hadn t the heart to do it.
guidance
the members of Congress.
The officials declared they were not
worried because they had not heard from
Ambassador Gerard who had been in
structed to make inquiries of the Ger
man foreign otlice wnether a German
submarine torpedoed the steamers Sus
sex and Englishman because of the de
lays in communication. Meanwhile the
situation was described as a waiting one.
Germany Said to Be Waiting.
Berlin, Tuesday via London, Friday,
March 31. Inquiries in government cir
cles developed the statement that noth
ing is known here concerning the explo
sion which damaged the channel steam
er Sussex beyond the newspaper reports
from abroad. Olhcials are refraining
from comment in the. absence of definite
information.
certained, to the fire in the Katz house
next door.
BODIES TAKEN TO ST0WE.
Of Mr. and Mrs. Lyman A.
Burned to Death.
Atkins,
Mansfield, Mass., March 31. The re
mains of Mr. and Mrs. Lyman If. Atkins,
who were burned in the fire which de
river, according to unofficial information
secured by General Funton last night.
At the head of a considerable force,
Villa was reported to be on the San
i bonds are secured by a trust indenture
under which the American Trust com
pany of Boston is trustee; that st a
meeting of the stockholders of the Wat-
Geronimo ranch or the Quemada ranch, j crliury Light . Power, company, at which
and troops of both the United States ami outstanding stock was represented, it
Mexico were believed to be closing in'" voted unanimously that when this
on him
This information was regarded by Gen.
Funston and his staff as probably cor
rect. If correct, it appeared probable
commission shall have consented, said
Waterbury company transfer all its as
sets to the Montpelier & Barre Light
4 Power company in consideration of the
TALK OF THE TOWN
SAW GIBSON KILLED
IN LUMBER LOT
Fred Spaulding, One of the Slain Man's
Teamsters, Testified in the Murder
Case in Windsor County "Court.
Woodstock, March 31. The work of
securing the jury in the trial of Charles
Leighton, charged with the murder of A.
C. Gibson in Sharon on February 24, last,
was completed yesterday morning 111
Windsor county court and the state im
mediately began the presentation of its
case.
Among the witnesses testifj-ing for the
state was Wallace Aldrich, owner of the
rifle which the state claims that Leigh-
ton used as a weapon against Gibson.
Aldrich testified that the rifle was rusty
As Schiller's exploit took place outside 1 and that it would carry a bullet without
of the three-mile limit he was told that 'regard to the care exercised in aiming
he prolab!y would be taken to British , the gun,
jiosnessions in tlie West Indies for trial
for piracy.
Tho Matoppo sailed from New York
Wednesday for Vladivostok with a cargo
consisting chiefly of barbed wire and farm
implements. She pa seed out by Sandy
that soon Villa either will have to face i assumption by the latter company of all
his pursuers in fight or make another obligations of the Waterbury company.
break through the tightening line of
troops.
Whether his assault on the garrison
at Guerrero was the same engagement
reported by General Pershing, was not
known, but it was regarded as likely
since the action reported by General
Pershing occurred March 17 somewhere
in that region. Details of the engage
ment wei-e not reported.
General Pershing has been advised of
the report as to Villa's location and it is
known that the disposition of hU trocps
and that of the Mexican government are I
such that Villa cannot easily escape!
without a fight. American troops are
converging in columns from the north
and it was indicated that a part of them
had gone so far south that they would
be able to join with the Carranza forces
in preventing his escape in that direction.
ing, were taken j-esterday atternoon to
Stowe, t. They were accompanied by
the daughter, Mrs. Klsa Atkins. At Stowe
funeral services will be held.
It developed here yesterday that tlie
books of the Spring Brook (emetery as
sociation, of which Mr. Atkins was su
perintendent, were consumed in the fire
and the association's accounts are de
stroyed.
Money, watches and other valuables
have been recovered from the debris, but
the books were in the section of the
house where the blaze raged the hottest.
O. A. racquet of Summer street re
turned to the city last night from a busi
ness trip to Boston, Central Falls, R. I.,
and Providence, R, I.
William Forbes of Merchant street be
gan work to-day s a bellhop at Hotel
Barre, succeeding L. F. Gallagher, who
completed his duties this noon.
E. L. House of West street was sum
moned to Williamstown this morning by
the critical
House, who
several days.
A benefit dunce for the young men of
the Christoforo Colombo bund, an organ
ization of amateur musicians organized
two years ago by Prof. p. Gropelli. is to
be held in the Granite street auditorium
WEEKS IN THE FIELD.
Middlebury Man Desires to Be Lieu ten
ant-Governor of Vermont.
.1 1L... I t 1L. i '
v-mrr urn., n v supplies , or .a ty veiling. An ambitious pro-
: l' ""'"""" irriiii of concert and mils ealea 111s been
Middlebury. March 31. Speaker John
E. Weeks of the Vermont House has an
nounced his candidacy for lieutenant-
governor of Vermont in the following
statement:
"I have been asked by many friends
.... . . . , . , " iwneiner 1 wotim ne a canamare ior ncu-
condition of his father, Henry ,)t vernor It jg , Jue lo
1 has been confined by illness .1, ,?. m u rr. 1 , .
supMrt. and also fair to other possible
candidates, that 1 should announce at
this time that I will be a candidate for
the Republican nomination for this office.
If I am nominated I shall try to do
my part toward a vigorous and earnest
campaign. If I am elected, I will do
in Bethany church, delegate to tlie con
ference having arrived in the city last
evening and this forenoon.
The following officers were elected by
the association: President, Senator W. P.
Dillingham; first vice-president, Hon.
Frank Plumley of Noithticld; second
vice-president, R. N". Millett of Spring
field; third vice-president, B. F. Moore of
Newport; secretary and treasurer, San
ford A. Daniels of Brattluboro. Resolu
tions were adopted by . the association
asking for representation at the general
conference, the election of delegates to
be hedged about with such safeguards as
to recover loil.o8. the verdict licim.
sealed and read at the opening of coun
ty court this forenoon.
The trial of the case occupied leVs than
a full day, not being commenced until
after 10 o'clock yesterday forenoon and
arguments were commenced at 4 o'clock.
Seldom have cases been completed so
rapidly as during this term. Fred L.
Laird represented' the plaintiff and Wil
liam AVishurt the defendant.
tine divorce case was heard this morn,
ing, it being that of Norma Pedrozzi vs.
John Pedrozzi. The case was not con
tested, and the judge took the matter un
der advisement. As there were no jury
cases ready for trial, the court excused
the jurors until next Tuesday morning.
PAID WITH DINNER.
Montpelier Golfers Settled with Victors
from Barre.
Nearly a dozen members of the Barre
Golf club team, victorious in the l!Jl.
the conference saw fit. Resolutions were interclub series with the Montpelier
adopted thanking Bethany church, where ; i.ountry club, were entertained at a dm
the lavnien met, for the courtesy extend-jner given by the capital city golfers
ed and to the people of Montpelier for last evening, the affair lcing in the na
their courtesy. Principal J. W. Hatch of j ture of a forfeit paid by the 'defeated
Montpelier seminary was also given sup
port in resolutions.
Senator Dillingham was unable to be
team. Among the B :irre golfers who at
tended the dinner were: John Daniuls,
L. U. Hutchinson, George- M. Marriott.
present and take his part in the pro-; Duncan McMillan, A. P. Abbott, AYilliani
gram, sending his regrets in a telegram. ; Johnston, George Fraser, .lames Free-
Miss (.lady Preston of Granville and j land, Andrew Freeland and Peter Brown.
Rev. Percival Hewitt of Pondsvillo spoke Dinner was served at 7 o'clock and nft-
upon "The Rural Church and Its Prob- erwards there was an interesting im
lem"; AV. B. Lance of Put infield on the promptu program of post-prandial ex-
general subject 01 district division, ana j ercjg,,g. Duncan McMillan and G. K.
Frank Plumley on the same subject. 1 he j iutnain acted as toastmasters and a
Inst two speakers expressed the opinion j nunii)pr of r0sl)o,ipes were made. Victrola
that the general conference would be , mils; it,.rl1.rdp,i !, 0nr.o.,mal-i,,r .,!
asked to change the title of district su- UM ian8 were discussed for the 1916
perintendent back to that of presiding , .-:,,- .,,;,, ia t wl a,ofim :
elder. They also favored dividing the ,, if 41, ,,
oniifnrnnr-A infn lTft itittfru'ta 1 nji ilii of i .. .. .
ico from El Paso for shipment over the rrilB,.d for the hand and an effort willlw',at ran to "'''"re prompt disputch
or legislative ousiness ns is consistent
with thorough consideration and fair
ness to every interest.
"I beileve that the future of A'ermont
depends not so much upon high-sounding
phrases in partv platforms as upon
the selection of capable, fair-minded men
nortnwestern railway, no news concern- i, 1I1,i i.rni, , mod M mi nf cinf or,
ing that development of the situation , tainments. etc., to put the financial af-
VILLA vNEARLY THROTTLED.
in.
Hook at n p
entering ins cabin, laptain Jieigner says ber lot when the man was killed.
Spaulding testified that there was not
a word spoken bv Leighton or his &one,
Dr. B. H. Stone, state pathologist, tes
tified regarding conducting an autopsy on
the body of Gibson.
Fred Spaulding, one of Gibson's team
sters, testified to the circumstances of ! learned here that Francisco A'illn nearly
the alleged murder of his employer, i lost his life a few days ago on the Cor-
Mexican Who Assailed Him Was Clubbed
Senseless By Villa's Men. x
Field Headquarters American expedi
tionary forces. Colon ia Dublan, Chihua
hua, March 2(1 (by motor -truck to Co
lumbus. X. M., March 31.) It has been
Two hours later uiMin J Spaulding was with Gibson in the tim-
lie was confronted by a young man with
a revolver in each hand.
The captain was then bound hand and
foot and locked in big cabin, promising
AA'alter and Newell, buth of whom have
n inrli(t.i in ilia ia mo rliuri.A na flici.
un.icr iK-nauy oi ueatn, not to raise an , f,,,, to Gibson. Spaulding said thst
l,"1' . a. Gibson hail drawn away one load of
The stowaway, who u 20 years ol.I t ,he own,h of hich it ,
then put the wirehs instruments out of : . u,,4- ' i ,. ..-..,-:
viii,,iii..,fin anil I hroil' I in kIiui air r i fl.va ' ' 1 1 "
ir.ilitos ranch, a short distance from this
place, where he tortured end put to death
five Mexicans. One of his victims leaped
on hiin and was strangling A'illa when
officers beat his assiilhint senseless with
tlie buttd of their guns.
Mucio Polanco was the name of the
Mexican who almost succeeded in ending
Villa's career.
The murder of five member of the Po-
' m","n " lmr" ""M'" """ :,r.t .i,., l..t hn h. fii,l .,on i "tnco lamiiy was sam to nave ncen in-
overboard. lie then returned to the cap-itese. gave testimony along "'"!"' . "K ot lor Mexican,
tain s cabin, rilled the safe and destroyed ,. . .. . . Sti-aUinl H against having dealings with Americans,
many important papers. He had expect- t J If? 'm' T" 4,'i ,i !"'... i Investigation showed that the Pobnco
r1' " ,.,:l,.'.(af,U,'n r:"""' l f,",l Bt. Iichton will W taken no the fir.t. of i 'h. "? V"
least iz.iHnp in r.ngiisii money arsiarci; - - . 1 - - , " taetion in .Mexico, hut tliat they
the Matoppo, but tln're was not a penny
fairs of the band on a strong working
bais. ehearsals. with new music, are be
ing held regularly.
Scarcely one-half of the canines that
are usually licensed in Barre have been
tagged for Hi 10, according to returns atlas legislators anil state officers. I stand
city hall, although only a day remains in j for everything that can lie done to assist
which dog owners may take advantage both the agricultural and manufacture
of the minimum fee for their pets. After ing industries of the state, for the great-to-morrow
night quotations on the little jest economy consistent w ith efficiency in
bra-s tags that keep a dog out of the the management of state institutions, for
constable's dutches for a whole year are i the continuation of the A'ermont good
bound to take an appreciable jump in
price. This morning 21H licenses for Pl(l
had been granted, but attaches at the
city clerk's otlice were anticipating an in
flux of dog owners hter in the day and
again to-morrow. Usually more than 400
licenses are issued in the course of a
year.
A. AA. Robinson of upper AVashing
ton street, who is department commaii-
roads policy, for equity in taxation, for
fair labor legislation, and for endeavor
to inforce more si rick the laws we have
rather than to enact a large number of
new ones.
"AA'hile I am a Republican, the' duties
of the lieutenant governor are so large
ly concerned with state matters that if f
receive the nomination I shall appeal for
i support to men of all partirs, and if
ner ot i Hi .M,n4 ni iiprani in i n,num 1 ... .... . ,
, . .elected. I win try to penorm me din es
s completing arrangements for the an- Lf ,,. offiop fo,,,,y jn 16 intt of Ver
mial gathering of the state division ,,.
..... . ........ .
twin n is to ne neiii in ifurlington Aprd
13
next week as it is believed that defense
in the case now on trial will finish bj
Monday afternoon or Tuesday.
in the sale. l-attir, nowever, -ml!er
compelled the captain and the first officer
to hand over their pocketbooks contain
in? about 30.
With Captain Bergner still a prisoner
in his own cabin, Schiller proi-e-ded to
round up the crew of Art men. all but a
few of wliora were tn their bunks. He
lined all hands up in one end of the nhip
and threatened that if anvone made a
me he would blow everybody to pices
w it h bond be Mid he had placed ia dif
ferent parts of the vensel.
At 4 o'chxk yesterday morning Sohiller
relcaMsd Captain lSergner and. till grip
ping a revrHver in rs-n tian.l. ordered th
teamer beaded toward the shore. tHher
oRicem and member of the crew were
hkewift ordered to their pbicM and tol l nounenl to-dsr thst two alleg.l wn
to put on ail f jxsd for the IVUwurc.'i"'"" with ttin lln TauxdifT iu
r-apra. When the Matnppo cme vithiaj l'" ,,,,"r P AielUnd canal are
aight of Un l afiotst nin Schilsrr or irred j under arret in New Yrk. t im t a th.r l
a niall lt low-red tn take bint abre. j i vr Wr ireillarce in New Knglan i
Men the net's inil askipg an.J t!st they e?-cted the artet of a
C as..toar bJ been sijMed bv the f-tirth ia a few d k
TWO SUSPECTS
IN CONSPIRACY
UNDER ARREST
U. S. Government Announces that Men
Alleged to Have Been in Plot to
Blow Up Welland Canal
are Caught
Washington. H. C.. Mar. h 31 The ofli-
j rials of the department of jisti.-e an-
1!) in connection with the vearlv mii t
j,,,, ., ,ing of the Grand Army of the Republic,
liability i"" 'omen's Belief corps and the Iji-
three, arguing for the change largely on
the ground of economy and that the
work would not be impaired thereby. In
amplifying Mr. Lance's remarks, Mr,
Plumley said the visits of the district
superintendent could in nuiny instances
lie supplied by sending out blanks to trie
churches.
Supt. Lowe's Report.
In his report, Supt. R. F. Lowe of the
St. Johusbury district characterized the
past year as, a time of "unusual minis
terial stringency and a period of un
expected victories." Under the heading
of material improvements the superm
tendent refers to the construction of it
.$7o.ihi edifice for Grace church in St.
Johnsbury, repairs to the church at New
port Center, changes at Holland, Island
Pond, South Albany, Albany, Lowell,
A'et Burke. Lyndoiiville, Fait Lyndon,
Irasbiirg, Plainhcld, Danville, Peacham
and Greensboro Bend; and also a new
pipe organ at Orleans.
Some of the churches have slightly in
creased their ministers' salaries and fre
I'liently the ministers are paid weekly.
Endowments are generally well invested.
The debt on the district parsonage has
been wiped out. The ladies' aid s,K-ietis
are given great commendation by the
suierintendent. Kviftigelistie work has
not been allowed to suffer amid the other
activities, and Superintendent Lowe re
ports considerable progress along that
line in many of the towns.
In closing his report. Superintendent
Lowe made two suggestions, the first of
which was to have tlie minister and the
laity get together and determine to de
stroy the had habit of talking down the
Methodist church, of picking flaws and
liKiking on the dark side of things, and
the second of which is to have a definite
objective for the conference and for each
individual church. "The church is not
here to save itself but to save the world.
The pastor is not here to save a little
coterie of people called saints or church
member. AAe must either earnestly at
tempt to save the community and the
world or to send our lives fruitlessly."
At the session yesterday a resolution
endorsing nations! prohibit ion was adopt -
led and signed by the presiding officer
iof the conference. BNhop Hamilton, and
ministers. The Rev. ( . H. Smith of the
Anti-Saloon league spoke briefly of that
Last year the Barre team won three out
of four matches scheduled. Spceiel ear
conveniences were arranged for the re
turn of the Barre golfers to this city
shortly before midnight.
DEATH OF MRS. E. F. DUNT0N.
Montpelier AVoman Died Yesterday After
noon Was Native of Marshfield. .
Mrs. Mabelle (Severance) Dunton, wife
of Eugene F. Dunton, passed away at
4:30 o'clock) yesterday afternoon at her
home on Prospect street in Montpelier,
death being due to meningitis, which de
veloped following the birth of a daughter
10 days ago.
She was born in Marshfield March 11,
1SH0, the daughter of H. E. and Clara M.
Severance. Her parents removed to
Montpelier when -she was but a child and
her education was gained in the public
schools ami at Montpelier seminary. She
lived for a time in Barre. She was reg-
strar of probate for 10 vcars, serving in
tltut capacity under Judge Carleton and
Judge .Martin. At the time she com
pleted her duties she was the oldest reg
istrar' in point of service in the state.
Her marriage to Mr. Dunton occurred
Feb. 1ft. I HIS. She leaves besides her
husband three daughters, Mnxine Nellie,
six. Harriet Pansy, lour, and Mary Jane;
also a sister, Mrs. AYilliani B. dones of
Willinmstown, and her parents of Mont
pelier. The funeral will be held Saturday aft
ernoon at 1 o'clock from her late home,
w ith Rev. AA'illiam Shaw, pastor of Trinity
church, officiating, with burial in Green
Mount cemeterv.
THINKS MEN WELL PAID.
A large crowd gathered in the K. of P.
hall last evening to play whi-t and .VM1
at the Maccafs-e card party. Favors for
higher scores went to Mr. Ftta Ionard
and John Tlowell and for the lower scores
to Mrs. H. AV. Clark and Ernest Hough-
record nf uniform hoiicfrf r atid rpl
in dealing with the American managers !,"p ,h '" K- A" f,mr patriotic
of the Corralito ranch, where thev were i organization are to join in opening exer
born and reared. " (rises f I then separate scions are to
AA hen A ilia, retreating from Cduinbiis. i,""nvrn'- During the year the Son of
arrived at the ranch, he had a lUt of 1 , Veterans in A'ermont hav m ic enconr
the Polamw, ix men. the mother an I 'g'ng numerical gains, the most recent
two daughters. He seined the men and camp lieing a camp which rame into ex- ! ton. AA'hist honors went to Mrs. Flore.nc.
huntitl foi .he daughters, but the young i-tenee in M-.nfjielier AVednesday night, ' Marin and Mr. Flvnn. the consolation
women liad leen hidden mi well that he when the state commander and a mini-' awards going to Mx. Peter Lawn an I
never found them. i lier of other members of the organization ! Ki hard AATiite. Pef rchnient were
I To five of the mm. Gregoiiu and bis in Barre. Major L. A. Ahhott camp, as- I erve-l at intermission. Tl
'two sons mi'I Aliicioaikl his one twin. ilia . sistt-d in installing the oflWrs. , in harge of the atlair w pnmi
laid: i Mrs. Ma Cngware. Mrs. Bertha McNeil
i
n i: ii iui i ion iimiin loi inr tirxi , i- . , . ,x ,
i .: ' ...i . ...r,. .! isubmitti'd
icms, - oil it 1 l"!l, film nil ein'ii ', ,1, - i , , . . , ,
I fir L ii, ihi iimn-iuci n iijni-e. i nr ii--
General Manager Jarvis Replies to De
mands of Company Employes.
Rutland. March 31 A'iee president and
General Manager George T. Jarvis of
the. Rutland railroad were yesterday
presented with the demands of tho un
ionized employes of the Rutland road in
conjunction with the organizations of all
eastern railroads, in which the men ask
for more pay, less hours and general re
arrangements of the present schedules,
and. in turn, the prosisals of the rail
road company for certain changes wero
to the committee received at
TALK OF THE TOWN
mauds were presented bv Chairman J. F
Stuart and Secretary F. S. Paige of the
Order of Kailway Conductors; Chairman
E. P. Gordon an I Secretary J. AV. Don
nelly of the Brotherhood of Railway
trainmen: Chairman AV. K. Sweeney and
Secretary II. S. Eggleston of the Broth
erhood of !.ocomotie Engineers and
Chairman B. .1. Mangan end Scretary
The funersl of Mr. Martha II. AA'-' Thomas J. franklin of the Hrotherhool
K. "stanton Wa-t'stt. wh w jui lvomotiv Firemen and Kngineer.
ome. Is'i A ahingt'n j In the reply made by General Mansgrr
stn-et e-!iie!ay morning loiiowp, n iar i ne mtimaie cit i'ie company
feat any legislation favorable to the s.i
h,on. He Mid he had just emerged from
a cvelone cellar.
FUNERAL OF MRS. WASGATT.
Held at Her Late Home on AVashmgton
Street.
nt were I ...
'gait, wiie ot K. st
committee " ' . , .
i i death at her ho
mposed of ; , , i .
. x- i stn-et Aediie!a
rhai!ir Public in r.ril
vers - ! oartv
But in-ted of killing them outright,! Tlie VaugVan vtor, having .-en fit n An effort to orgtnire a title rhib in
A'illa had t? em partly stripped ant then ' aTid the leiks'duU. are now jjjosl on Barre is being made and to the end Cist
flat l ley ,.r.l, fie lair li-t ot merchant nd .ie-ering ail wr-eri inierivi m t T-e proj.s t mar
of your ltror.ae. lnlr thos tht are have an opportunity in epre- t'.rm
am g.-ng to k.ll you Iw-au-e yo votic. rtnion Men and Fam,.e. nnA Tor. i Mr. Mamie Aery and Mr. Md.lre l . ..- .. ., .. ., . ,. ... : ti.. ,, ' . ... W
lare im, Ameri.-ai,e.I. You are gringo j . Uhmcan. The ladie. i ln to have an.-tW ' . 7. V. ' 7 7, .. V iJT .. . . "
in Ve near future. :'.'"- ' ' ' . ' ' I. t .u ''
T-t ,- , . , t . tT , . . ,. I, 'TV regl lonai "iiiir, n. o .:ci:i I iti. icni- l n. .!ill ni .:e n t ne niut'i., omii wiir nr
I lie unci in vfor, haritig --n fit to An effort to orgtnire a Tine r'uti in ' - ,. . , .... , .i ,
lr ,-t liiiTn e! npier. .o. u. r.. l i ie acvpisni' oi i.'ieir pr'-j'iai. i ne-e.
Iwotcn wthti'e
Mih io Poiicsi lroke mv from hi cao-
tora an I jrt one hand ! ked a!it A il
throat Is f. re be . b-ston oif.
Nt A .i ll I '-re I ti e fie s'fwxl : p
I ,e th a i i r ., v. m re lie t-dj
nnion etk r ti-ie intending to tw--ome f!u, i
wid l- eiiitlejel. Ai-ii mn e-ct fair IrlioTiV
t'eifnert and I 'to lre l rent for your c". hk.
dollar at t' e ior that t fir to vnu and read
n-es ting is to I in I ki 1
l.a'l St';r-y rvenlr.s at 7
Tentv ffie j- r j, lure a'
a de- te I i t Jute w ith
thrnf he W"ui 1 hng tliem. ilife Were its clctks. tkik" I sk locsl 2il.
iii c.i.b here in tl rAj.
( l.'uth riat.ter. No. I i. K.
wl eh Mr. Wi-paH l..ti;, i, M ,;i
a women of the la i f' a;d s-iity. weir
among tlw,,- l'i attcn.'i.l t'-e rr h-es.
To morrow ptnir; at 12:3."i 1 . k.
th remains w dl t taken nirr t!.e ( cu -trai
Arrn r t railmad to North Jay, A!- ,
i- r iiiTertuertt.
siibnotted
t-love.
for ei.ii-iderat en of tha
f s,Ir,,,it i communion dy for member
-f .. A.. -A. " H. '.!t re reoue-t-t"
rn-t n K. of C. l il at Juva
I'.'.t a'-si. .
