DAILY EDITION
VOL. VI,, No. 108.
GIUNTS TABS, JOSEPHINE COUNTY, OREGON, FRIDAY, MARCH 81, 191.
WHOLE NUMBER I70O.
No Other Town in the World the Sizo of Grants Pass Has a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service.
. . 10
RUNNING BAHLE NEAR GUERRERO
Bandit Leader, Suffering From Broken Leg and Other
Wounds, Is Not Present, But Commander Hernandez
and 30 Others Are Killed, Four Americans Receiving
Slight Injuries in Fight Early Wednesday Morning
Washington, Mar. Sl.The war de
partment today received confirmation
of report that Vtlllsta bid beon
-badly boat en In a clash with the
American expeditionary force.'
Colonel Dodd'f cavalry struck the
Villlstas at alx ft. in. Wednesday, near
Guerrero, according to a war depart
ment message from the Sau Geron
Inio ranch. The dispatch wa dated
yesterday and was transmitted from
General Pershing via General Fun
aton'a headquarter.
Villa, suffering from ft broken leg
and other Injuries,' was not In the
battle. The Vllllitaa loft SO dead on
the battlefield. Othera are believed
to have been killed. I)odd captured
two rapid-fire guns,, many saddles,
"horses, munitions and supplies.
The attack was a surprise to the
Vtlllstaa. They did not have time to
arm before the American cavalry was
upon them. Dodd'a men had march
d 55 miles In 1? hours to overtake
the bandits.
Commander Hernandez, of the VII
llstaa, was killed. The Mexicans
showed no fighting qualities, said the
dispatches. They merely grabbed
the nearest guns, mounted their
boraes and fled. A running fight en
sued. ' ' "
The battle lasted while Americans
.and Mexicans galloped aide by side
for ten miles, fighting. At' last the
bandits separated and fled to the
mountains, abandoning a number of
Carranxlstas who had been taken
prisoners in previous encounters.
The war department's message
from Pershing said:
"Ban Geronlmo. Mar. SO.Colonel
George Dodd struck Villa's command,
consisting of BOO men, at six o'clock !
FEDERAL COURT
RULES IN LAND CASE
Portland, Mar. 81. Federal Judge
"Wolverton today ruled on the govern
ment's demurrer in Its case against
Wlllard N. Jones, holding that by rea
son of a mistake of law of the de
partment of the Interior In Ismilng
patents to ntne homestead cntrvman
of lands within the diminished Blletx
reservation the government's suit
against Jones for $183,000 damages;,, of the cx,,e(mtonRry force,
was barred.
The suit arose out of allegod fraud
ulent transactions, of Jones In the
locations of numerous veterans of the
civil war on heavily timbered SUetx
lands during 1900-1901. Jones was
Indicted tor criminal conspiracy with
Thaddeus Potter and Ira Wade, After
a ten-day trial In October, 1905, with
Francis J. Honey prosecuting, Jones
and Potter were convicted. Jones
was sentenced to one year's Imprison
ment and 13,000 fine In 1908.' Jones
appealed, and tbe judgment was af
firmed "by the circuit court of appeals,
on whoso ' mandate he was re
sentenced In tho local federal court to
tour months' Imprisonment and $10,
000 fine. He was pardonod June 4,
1912, by President Ta'ft, on the
ground that the Jury that tried him
wa Improperly selected. ,
27TU VICTIM OF VS.. V,
, CENTRAL WRECK DIES
Clevolnnd, Mar. 81. Another vic
tims of the New York Central wreck
at AmherBt died today, bringing the
total fatalities up to 27. Ten of the
mangled dead have not 'been ldentl-,try with F. B. iSsnford, the manager,
tied. The railroad now admits that j In a day or two. The company is do
the death car of the Lake Shore ,'lng some extensive development work
train's first section was made partly upon Its several properties, and has
of wood and partly of steel.
I
Wednesday morning at ; Guerrero.
Villa.. who was suffering from .a
broken leg and ft Urn hip, was not
present. The number of Villa dead
Is known to be 30.. Probably others
were carried away doad. Dodd cap
tured two machine guns, a large num
ber of horses, saddles and arms. Our
casualties consisted of four enlisted
men wounded, none seriously. The
attack was a surprise, the Villlstas
being driven back la a ten-mile run
ning fight. - They retreated to moan
tains northwest of the railroad, where
they separated Into small bands: A
large number of Cftrranilsta prison
ers, who were being held for execu
tion, was liberated during the fight.
In order to reach Guerrero, Dodd
marched 65 miles In 17 hours. Her
nandez, the, Vllllstft commander, was
killed. With Villa permanently dis
abled, and Lopex, his chief lieutenant,
wounded, Hernandet dead, the blow
administered is a serious one to
Villa's band."
General Hugh Scott, chief of staff,
sent the following message to Gen
eral Funaton' this afternoon:
"Secretary of War Baker desires
you to convey .to General Pershing
and Colonel Dodd, and his command
hearty commendation on their ex
ploit" San Antonio, Mar. 31. American
cavalry, under Colonel Dodd, clashed
.with Villlstas at the San Oeronlmo
ranch near Guerrero at 6 a. m. March
39, according to General Pershing's
official report to General Funston.
The Villlstas were routed after a five-
hour battle. . ,
' Villa suffered a broken leg and a
badly Injured hip
VILLA HEADING FOR
CHIHUAHUA CITY
Ban Antonio,1 Mar. 31.i General
Funston today received authentic but
unofficial reports that Francisco Villa
Is working along the railroad from
Guerrero toward Chihuahua City.
Americans and Villlstas, Bald the re
port, had exchanged shots.
Funston is certain that fighting has
occurred between Villlstas and mem
."We have reports,';, he sad, "that
Villa has been reinforced. I am con
fident, however, that our capable men (
under strohg leadership can take care
of the Villlstas. Some of our Isolated
detachments are bound to suffer, but
If Villa stands against our larger
forces he will discover their mettle."
Funston refused to name the source
of his advices. Carranzlstas, he said,
were strongly co-operating. ; y .
"Unless we bring Villa to a deci
sive battlo, be can continue his flight
toward Central Amorlca," declared
Funston. "I hate to consider the
difficulties of , maintaining our lines
of communication much further." '
General Pershing has joined tho
cavalry advance guard,, apparently
aware that Villa Is about to give
battle. ' ,
Arrives From Chicago ,
Jas. R. Smith, socretary of the Del
Norte Claim Holders' association, ar
rived In the city from Chicago today,
and , will leave for the company's
properties in the Preston Peak conn-
ft most excellent showing of ores.
DANIELS OUTLINES
PROGRAM
Washington. Mar. 31. Asserting
that conditions bad not changed
greatly since 1903, Socretary Daniels
told the house naval affairs commit
tee today that he had reverted to that
year for his navy building program.
He advocated the same plan that was
prescribed by the naval board then.
"I recommend a continuous (building
program for at least five years," said
Daniels. "The 1903 general board
In a confidential letter advocated a
continuous program which would give
us 48 battleships, 24 armored cruis
ers, 48 protected cruisers, 48 scout
ships, 61 destroyers, and 30 colliers
by the year 1919.
"It recommended that one armored
cruiser, three protected cruisers,
three destroyers and two colliers be
built every year. , .
"If this program had been carried
out we would have bad completed by
1913, . 20 dreadnaughta, 10 battle
cruisers, and other craft which would
have made our navy superior to that
of Germany at the beginning of the
war-'V .... . .-' - .... v:
"If we should make a five-year pro
gram,' said Daniels, "I would recom
mend the tuildlng of two dread
naughts In 1917 and two each ol
io wing year, for four years. This
would give us the strength of the
1903 proposal by 1921.
"I have learned lately that the
battle cruiser is an Important unit of
the fleet. The general board has
heretofore rated dreadnaughta as of
first Importance, destroyers second,
and submarines third, omitting the
battle cruisers altogether.
"The most able naval experts op
pose ttiem, saying they eat up money.
But Japan has four and Great Britain
ten, and Germany baa six or eight.
I recommend the adoption of a pro
gram which would give us six battle
cruisers by 1921. . Dreadnaughts. af
ter all, are the greatest fighting unit
of the navy and should be Increased
in number more rapidly than other
types." , :
Daniels asserted that the oil re
serve situation was serious. Hereto
fore all navy oil has been obtained
from government reserve. lands. He
urged defeat of the Ferris senate bill,
which would menace the government
reserve,
Daniels also urged abolition of the
seniority promotion rule. ,
VILLA WOUNDED JN
GUERRERO BATTLE
El Paso, Mar. 31. Francisco Villa
was again reported wounded oday.
He was said to have been hit in the
leg whue attacking a dance party
ln QUerrero. ,'. .'
General Gavlra. said there , was a
possibility that Villa had been caught
between strong American and Car
ranaiBta forces southwest of Chlhua-
hua City,
The mayor
of Temosachlo tele
graphed that he had proof Villa had
been wounded in the left leg and that
Mexicans saw blm.'ln a wounded con
dition, passing through Cuslhulrlchl
after the fight at Guerrero.
Gavlra announced that 1,200 cav
alry under General Luis llerrera left
Chihuahua City on Wednesday to cut
oft Villa's flight to the southward,
iterrera telegrophed . to Juares that
he Intended to kill Villa and ship his
head to Consul Garcia in El Paso.
' It was reported Villa would con
tinue his flight southward, aiming to
roach the east slope of the great di
vide. Americans believe he is still
on the west slope. .
MUDDLE
Tur ciiDMiniiir
ebbb
Washington, Mar. 31. President
Woodrow Wilson and his cabinet
again discussed the submarine crisis
today, facing a muddled problem In
the mass of evidence before them.
Of the four vessels concerned In
recent German U boat attacks, It Is
understood the Eagle Point was In tbe
service of the British admiralty, Ger
many will contend the steamer Eng
lishman was torpedoed only when it
tried to escape, and that the channel
steamer Sussex bit a mine. Officials
believe It a foregone conclusion that
the kaiser will advance some defense
for tbe sinking of the British steamer
Manchester Engineer.
Americans were on board all of
these ships. '
The president and Secretary Lans
ing hope to obtain evidence from
United States consuls so strong that
definite conclusions can be based up
on them. There have been no ad
vices from Ambassador Gerard In
Berlin,' and this Is contributing to the
present difficulty. The uncertainty
as to what really damaged the Sussex
submarine torpedo or mine
caused cabinet 1 ministers to move
more deliberately than it was sup
posed they would. Drastic action will
be taken only If It is clearly proved
that Germany torpedoed one of the
ships without warning. "
The government does not possess
proof upon which to base, a formal
charge that Germany Is renewing Its
Illegal submarine warfare. " At Its ses
sion today the cabinet Inspected tbe
circumstantial evidence surrounding
the Sussex case. Following adjourn
ment, officials stated , there was no
postive evidence that the channel
steamer had been torpedoed. No ac
tion will be taken until positive proof
Is forthcoming. . Not aj 'word has
been received yet from Ambassador
Gerard at Berlin. . . . .
ADMITS DESTRUCTION OF ,
BISHOP SCADDING'S PAPERS
Portland, Mar. 31. Charged with
tbe destruction of the records of a
corporation, Charles B. Pfahler, con
fidential secretary to the late Bishop
Scaddlng, faces grand jury action to
day following bis admission before
Judge Jones yesterday that he had
burned the bishop's papers after bis
death.- In explanation, he said the
bishop had directed him to do so, but
this was denied by Bishop Walter
Sumner, who succeeded Scaddlng in
the Oregon Episcopal diocese, and by
Rodney L. Gllsan, chancellor of the
diocese under Bishop Scaddlng.. Quot
ing from letters and church reports,
tbey testified that Bishop Scaddlng
had desired his successor to find the
affairs of the church in perfect order.
Grand Master Will Visit-
Frank J. .- Miller, grand master
A. F. & A. M. of Oregon, will make
Grants Pass lodge, No. 84, an official
vlalt An XTnnAav AnrM 9 Mr. Miller
Is a member of tbe railroad commls -
son and will be In Grants Pass also
on commission business,
MAKERS STRIKE
London, Mar. 31. Two thousand
Clyde machinists wore on strike to
day, refusing to manufacture big
guns, and the trouble threatened to
spread.
The machinists sold they would not
work until the BrltlBh government re-
pealed its conscription measure.
Arthur Henderson, labor member
of the cabinet, was due at Glasgow
today to meet a committee of strikers,
A number of laborers, but proportion-
0
BRITISH
atoly few as oomparod to the number national guard. The officials bad been
"out," bave returned to their tasks Invited to a meeting of the "platform
In spite of the pressure exerted by boys," and pledged tbelr heartiest re
union leaders. v. 'operation to their preparedness plan.
GERMANS HAVE CAPTURED
French Positions About Winch Bloody Battles Have Raged
for Days at Last Fall Before Attach of the Kaiser's
Troops, the Final Assault Being a jHasd-to-Hasl Con
flict Between Two Annies, Only Few Prisoners Taken
Berlin, Mar. 31. The fortified
town of Malancourt and defenses on
both sides of it have been stormed
and captured, It was officially an
nounced today. ,..
Tbe prisoners totalled 328.
London, Mar. 31 With huge Ger
man shells smashing their trenches
into ruins, French troops nave eva
cuated all but the eastern and south
ern outskirts . of Malancourt, Paris
dispatches admitted today.
' Tbey said tbe German artillery ren
dered other defenses untenable.
1 The highway which intersects the
village is covered with a pall of dust
and smoke, shot with bright flashes of
flame as French guns shower shells
on it " ' :"
' Heavy explosives are being planted
with mathematical accuracy on every
foot of the road, so that the Germans
will not be able to advance along it
or seize any portion of It
Paris, " Mar. 31. French troops
have evacuated tbe ruins of Malan-
court, but still hold the .bttawajaijgj,, Uomx to plecM fcy
running from Betbtncourt to Esme8,teucceeain' jieys. The' Germaae
it was officially announced today. ' ;bMt effopU ftUed evacuation
Following a bombardment which 0f the., Bethlncourt-Malancourt tri
lasted all night, tbe Germans drove; angle. ,, ,, ;,? . ,, . ,
the French from their wrecked posi-1 a, strong attempt was made by Ger-
tlons by three massed attacks deliver -
ed simultaneously at three places.
Before the French soldiers gave
ground, however, , tbey fought . the tons were slain and the attack re
Germans hand-to-hand for hours. As pnJled
L
TRIED TO
CAPTURE VESSEL
Lewes, Del., Mar. 31. A daring
plot to capture the 5,000-ton British
steamer Matopo, with her valuable
cargo, and take her to sea, was re-.
voaled today by Ernest Schiller, who
was overpowered after holding up tbe
ship's commander and attempting to
seize the vessel single-handed. ' Four
other men, he said, conspired to stow
away aboard, spring out at a given
signal, overpower tbe officers and cow
the Chinese crew by threatening them
with revolvers. AU this, was to take
place Just oft Sandy Hook. ..
Schiller's comrades, however, back
ed out just before the Matopo sailed
from Hoboken. Thereupon, Schiller
says, be deciaea to execute we pian
.alone, but be planned to escape to
this port after looting the. safe.. He
refused to name his confederates.
The authorities are puzzled,, ss, to
what disposition should be made of
him." If it is proven that the Matopo
was outside the three-mile limit when
he held up the commander, Schiller
belongs In the Captain Kldd class and
is liable to be hanged by the British
as a pirate. , . . ,. ; '
PORTLAND STREETCAR MEX
PLAN MILITARY COMPANY
Portland, Mar. 81. Motormen and
conductors of the Portland Railway,
Light & Power company, after listen-
.lng to ringing speeches last night by
President Franklin T. Griffith and
.General Superintendent O. B. Cold-
well, were arranging today the de
tails of a military company to be or
ganized as a branch of the Oregon
ONE
MA
1
OR!
the troops were mixed up in
one
straggling mass, ari tilery on botn
sides became silent for fear of kil
ling the wrong men.
Finally the French advance guard
battalion fell back in good order,
leaving hundred of bayonetted Ger
mans In their wake. The French re
treated, to strongly fortified, posi
tions on highways leading from Mal
ancourt As they retired slowly
through the towns debris strewn
streets the Germans followed and tbe
fight raged from door to door until
new trenches were reached, and there
the German advance was halted.
In the Avocourt wood where the
French salient was like a small wedge
in the German ranks, ! the crown
Lprlnce sacrificed . several battalions
endeavoring to break the position, ac
cording to. the Paris statement : .. .
Twice the Germans came on, hurl
ing hand grenades, which exploded
harmlessly on tou of the defense shel
ters!, k Wbent they: : were atruggllng
among barbed wire entanglement
jine-f rencp toBea eneeis oi nre ai
" them .'. Bodies banzinK In the en-
a a si . m m a
: mans to carry French positions east
of Haudremont '' There, again, tbe
Paris communique said, many. Teu-
NCREASE IU WAGES
Portland, Mar, 31. A general in
crease in wages to conductors ana
brakemen employed on the O.-W. R.
& N. system, amounting to 339 a
year, not including increased com
pensation throngb overtime, has been
granted by the company.
The increase, which includes an
entire rearrangement of the wage
schedule, comes as a result of a secret
conference between representatives
of the Order of Railway Conductors,
tbe general grievance committee of
the Brotherhood of Railway Train
men,, and officials of the railroad,
company. .
The conference began January 11
and was concluded yesterday after
noon when the Anal agreement was
dratted and signed. It changes the
schedule of wages that has been in
effect on the O.-W. R. & N. tor tbe
post five years. The increases range
from 30 cents to 90 cents per day,
and affect approximately' 750 em
ployes. 1 - ; " :
INDICT DR. WATTE FOR ,
FIltST DEGREE MURDER
.1.
New. York, Mar. 81. Dr. Arthur
Warren Walte was indicted today on
a first degree murder charge. It is
alleged he poisoned his wealthy
father-in-law, John E. Peck, of Grand
Rapids, Mich. '
The Indictment was presented by
the grand jury foreman to Judge Nott
In the court of general sessions. The
grand jury has conducted a continu
ous hearing since Monday. Dr. Walte,
it was stated, will not be arraigned
on the murder charge until Monday.
His Illness Is much Improved. Dis
trict Attorney Swann Is expected to
demand that Walte be tried in the
supreme court. v ': '" ,
iiMiilRAiK
