4l Iff0
ttttottf
VOL. LXXXJ1I.
B R ATT LEBOHO, FRIDAY, MARCH 81, 1910.
NO.
1 o
JUST ARRIVED
Bought last November at the lowest
price for which we ever contracted a
carload.
Although the factory from which we
bought advanced prices January 1 and
again March 15, making the beds cost
from 50c to $3.00 more for each bed,
we are marking these beds in many
instances at the lowest prices we ever
made.
Iron Beds Ranging from $2.19 to $11.70
Brass Beds from $6.95 to $45.00
Twin Beds in All Styles
EMERSON & SON
Everything ior Housekeeping
BRATTLEBORO
Tax Day April 1st
Money on deposit in the Brattleboro
Tl'USl Company, in either the Savings De
partment or the Checking Department, is NOT
TAXABLE, and need not be returned in your
inventory.
WANTED.
WANTED I.Ivo poultry, beef hides
una veal skins, a. O. Abbott s SON'S
S-tf
WANTED Good
with references of W.
Inson Farm.
herdsman. Inquire
K. ADAMS, IJlek-13-tf
WANTED Few pood cows duo to
freshen In March nnd April, A. G.
UAIINKS, Vernon, Vt. 03-tf
WANTED Mini to work on fnrm
Must Im Rood teamster. G. 12. UltlT
TON, Westmoreland, N. II. 10-tr
WANTED Two or three men to work
in my portable nawmlll. Kor particulars
mldiess I J. M. 11AI.K, Wilmington, Vt.
IIMG
WANTED Wo want to list your prop
erty, no commission unless a sale 19
made. Write or call. S. W. EDGETT &
CO. ro-tr
CROSBY'S
STOCK FEED
There is 50,000,000 vrorth of
grain in Illinois elevators and no
moro can bo put in. Never be
fore lias there been so much
moisture in tho corn, and ele
vator mon aro in a state of panic
with warm weather coining on
and no way to prevent tho corn
from rotting. Unless cars to
moio the 1915 crop are received
within a short timo half of the
grain will bo lost.
Why take this chanco when
you can supply your trade with
a PERFECT SUBSTITUTE
CROSBY'S STOCK FEED?
Wo moisture to cause troublo
because) kiln dried to better than
tho point of safpty. Can bo
used anywhere co'rnmeal is used
and at a saving.
E. CROSBY & CO.
BRATTLEBORO, VT.
A Good Run of Sap Lost
in a short sugar season because
buckets not covered is throwing
away money. Only a few cov
ers and buckets left. Cans $9.00
to $10.50. Wholesale and retail.
Sap regulators in stock.
J. E. ROGERS
03 Main St., Brattleboro.
AUCTION
150 Horses 150
No one could ask for a
safer, moro convenient or
remunerative Investment for
surplus funds than Is offered
by this company In the way
of First Mortgages on Im
proved farms In Oregon,
Washington, Idaho and Mon
tana offered In any denomi
nation from $500 up. Bear
Ing Interest at the rate of
6 per cent. Your principal Is
safe. We collect your Inter
est and attend to all other
details without expense to
you. What more could you
ask?
WANTED Men to work mlnlns, also
tmovelinn. also chopping and general
wnrtt. Also wanted boilers 10 to If", h.p.
iMiKlnes. hoists, etc. Apply or mlilress
W.U. STA RICKY, Westmoreland, N. II.
Ttl. 11-32. 'IS
WANTED A ST 'HIS: General Mcivhnn
disc in- Dry Goods; having stock $3,000 to
SS.000. Give particulars by mail. Answers
held strictly conlidentlal. Write STORK,
caro Phoenix. 7-tf
FOR SALE.
FOR SALE Tha Hotel nt Putney, Vt.
Partially furnished; : might exchange.
KDGKTT CO., lirattlefcoro. 74f
FOR SALE Five pissenser Stud.eba
Iter, in good running condition. Inquire
of C. I.. GOULD, Wlllainsvllle, Vt. 1315
FOR SALE Horse, ! years old, weight
1250, Rood worker or driver; also 1 pair
team harness, li. SI. RUED, Putney, Vt
18-tf
FOR SALE Handsome black mare
coming 4 years old, well broken, kind and
Kentle. IRA JAY DUTTON, Wardsboro
Vt. 6-tf
pnp 84LP Mv ."in h.n. E. M. K. Studn
baker automobile. Tires all good, painted
and overhauled last winter. S. V. AB
liOTT. 7-tf
FOR SALE Small farm In Vernon.
known ns the Ray place. Kor particulars
null lie of I- AYKTTlj KiuuuAi i), vcr
non, or address S. I.. BOND, Wilming
ton. Vt. 13-21
FOR SALE One-half mile from South
New fane. 140-aere fiiim divided as fol
lnus. M acres mowinc. 50 ucrt nasturo.
50 ut ri h Pine. Good sugar lot setting C0U
! buckets. Two-story white house, horse
WANTED Married man for farm
wink; must understand caie of horses
driving team. etc. State wuges wanted
ami give references. liARNKS 1SROS.,
Yulesvllle, Conn. 13-1 1
SPECIAL NOTICES.
HIGHEST PRICES PAID for old Ver
mont Rooks and Pamphlets. TIIK TUT
TIjW CO., Rutland, Vt. 10-12
FUR WORK of all kinds; repairing a
specialty; new skins for sale. MRS. r.. I..
UOI'MKS. u) Green Street, noura a 10
I. Urattleboro. 46-19
CHIROPODY and Shampoo Parlors
switches, pompadours, combings made up
to order. mk, a. iwviim, in
Main -Ot. Thont, l-tf
SLATING AND ROOFING or all kinds
and chimney cleaning done to order.
E. D. TORREY, 50 Frost St., Brattlebo
ro. Telcphono 475-W.
My 14th Big April Sale Will Take Place
On
Thursday, April 6, 1916
Commencing at 10.30 a. m. sharp.
I will arrive Apill 3 with CO head 01
fiesh Ohio horses. I will have for this
sale "5 fresh country horses, consisting
of 20 pairs 2,200 to 3,500 pounds each.
Pairs of greys, roans, blacks, bays and
chestnuts. Single, 1,050 to 1,850 each
Xo better lot of horses will ever be seen
together at one sale In this state. About
acclimated of all descriptions, 800 to
1,700 pounds each, sold for various rea
sonr.
Will also sell for a Vermont contrnc-
I..,. V l.t.r lia.i'unu t.-ltl. Inirhnu. it'.ii'iit.u
ami everything that goes with 'a logger
oiitllt, all in good condition. Tour new
Cortland buggies, several seconu nanu
wacons of all descriptions, one two-
horso dump cart, revernl sets of single
and double harness, one auto truck, will
carry l.noo pounds, bora engmo in per
fei t condition, sultuble for country stores
or farmers.
This sale will bo conducted as in the
past sell 'em win or lose, no limit with
mo after tho second bid, You take no
chances when buying nt my sales,
Horses must be as represented or re
turned within the time limit and get ev
ery dollar back; consignment solicited.
Don't forget the date, Thursday, April 6.
Salo nosltlve. rain or shine: if stormy
plenty of room under cover. Follow tho
crowd, come to a real auction, where
you buy ut your own prices.
M. J. TETREAULT, Prop.
Mansion Houce Stables, Greenfield, Mass.
JOHN A. riNNIGAN, Auctioneer.
FOUNDA vhenherd male dog. which
owner may have by proving same ns his
ami paying enaiges. ri jr. 1-iiiL.i.u-n.
piopertv and paying1 chnrges. I- 1'.
PHIlilJPS, West Dummerston, Vt. 1"
FUR GARMENTS mado and repaired,
including coats. Tut prices from April
to August to avoid next season's rusn.
i:llmntPH uiven. Would call. MRS. .1
M. SHAW, West Northfleld, Mass. 11-tf
HULLED CORN, hominy, fresh butter
and egss, cottage enceso anu uuner
milk. Deliveries mado Tuesdays nnd Sat
urdays. Orders can bo telephoned Mon-
ilnvu nr Prldns. GEO. C. HARRIS. Tel
911-15. C-tf
Nutting Pictures
NEW SUBJECTS
CLAPP & JONES'S
FOR
hill n and two cow barns. II.
lHtOVTN, South Neufnne, Vt.
II.
12-15
FOR SALE. In Timnilliend. Vt. A fine
village iiirm Known as mo ausau uoss
nlacc. rontalnluir nbout 25 acres of land
witli sugar lot. nttractlvo brick houso
well kept up, eight rooms, fine cellar.
woodshed, barn, sugar House, never fall
ing sming water running through house.
all within 5 minutes' walk of center of
Townshend, one of the llnest villages in
southern Vei ninnt two churches, graded
school, academy, on C. V. R. K.. six
trains a day. To be sold to settle es
tate. P. H. RUTTER, Executor, Towns
hend, Vt. l:
TEN PAGES
BRATTLEBORO.
FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1910.
THE VERMONT PHCENIX
Published in Brattleboro every Friday.
SUBSCRIPTION PRICE $1.50 A YEAR,
$1.00 for eight months; 75 cents for six
months; 50 cents for four months; 40 cents
for three months. All subacrlptlons are pay
able strictly In advance, and all papers are
topped promptly at their expiration unless
the tubtcrlptlons are renewed.
Rates of display advertlslne furnished on
application. Small classified advertisements.
10 cents per line first Insertion, five cents per
Una each subsequent insertion.
(Entered at tho Brattleboro post office as
second class mall matter.)
was in Boston nearly a century. .1. O.
Ulicry bought it it ml moved its offlco
to Brattleboro. Ho published it suc
cessfully here several years. It was
bought by a syndicate of Washington
county men who may have known some
thing about farming, but who were
Incking in elementary knowledge of
newspaper management. Tlicy changed
Its form, stylo and quality and news
paper men who noticed tlio way it was
thrown together after it was moved to
Montpelicr predicted its enriy demise.
Its ending was rather pitiful in view
of its ago and eminent respectability.
TO RENT.
TO RENT Fi t-claf
tenement, 24 Urook -1.,
nstalrs
5-tf
FOR SALE 100-ACRE FARM
AT GUILFORD CEN ,'Eli, VERMONT
Ten-rcKim house. Camaiii- and wood
shed, cow bain, lia barn, poultry house
and granary; novo -falling supply ot
spring wuter running m house and liarn
yaul; 17 aeies wood and timber: 20 acres
Held; 35 acres miming and tillage; 2S
acres pasture; lots of fruit, tipples,
grapes and red r.ipbenles; chance to
sugar olT. For terms, etc., apply to
JOHN E. GALE, Guilford, Vt.
For Sale Seed Potatoes
Early Maikct A new variety, very
early, free from disease nnd heavy yield
ing. I grew 3S0 bushels per at.re last
year. $3.50 per bushel.
W. A. PAGE, putney, Vt.
ANT
Special Village Meeting
Tho local voters of tho Village of
Brattleboro are hereby wnrncit
and notified to ini'ot at
FESTIVAL HALL
in said village, on
SATURDAY, THE FIRST DAY OF APRIL
Next, at 8 o'clock p. m., to act ou the
following articles, to wit:
Articlo 1. To elect a Moderator to
preside at tho meeting.
Articlo 2. To seo if tho villago will
voto to soil tliu No. (i Kngino Houso
property, on South Main St.; and if
so, to elect an Agent or Agents to
convey said property.
Articlo To transact any other busi
ness that may legally como beforo
tho meeting.
W. IL PERRY,
Villngo Clerk.
Brattleboro, Vt., March 22, 1910.
Special Saturday
Strictly frcsli cut flowers uono better
In town.
ROSES 65 cents Dozen.
CARNATIONS 35 cents Dozen.
Call or telcphono to my Gresnliouse
or at Thomas's drug storo.
GRAHAM FOR GOVERNOR.
P. II. Babbitt of Bellows Palls, who
would have had strong support if ho
had decided to run for the governorship,
comes out in his whole-hearted, enthusi
astic way in support of Horace P. Gra
ham. Every newspaper which has come
to tills ofiicc since Mr. Graham's candi
dacy was announced liua had commen
datory words to say of tho present state
auditor. Ono of tho most original and ut
tho same time strongest endorsements is
the following from tho Bennington Ban
ner: "Hornce P. Graham, Craftsbury,
will be tho next governor of Vermont
unless all signs fail. He has been state
auditor for fourteen years and no oth
er man knows the business affairs of
ermoiit so well as he. Sometimes can
didates for governor are brilliant, some
times popular, sometimes honest, some
times industrious, sometimes able, and
sometimes merely the best that is avail
able. Mr. Graham is not a human
wonder, a paragon of virtuo or climax
of gonitis, but he is a plain, sound, hard
headed, honest and patriotic Verinonter
with more good qualities than are of
ten combined in one specimau of man
kind. With Horace Graham governor
tho state will be well served. The Ban
ner hopes and expects to sec him nomi
nated and elected."
Tho nomination is evidently coming
to Mr. Graham as easily as it camo to
tho late Charles J. Bell. The fact that
ho is a man of good cdncotion,-Jrrnv
proachablo character, sound judgment
and has b'-'en in closo touch with state
affairs for years, makes his candidacy
appeal to people generally.
Business conditions continue to be
favorable. Topnotch speed is being
maintained in the metal industries, nnd
the various other lines report a satis
factory volumo of orders. In many
cases orders which were expected to be
accepted wcro cancelled owing to tho
rapid rise in prices. Tho freight con
gestion, which has handicapped many
industries still prevails, and tho pros
pect for improved conditions in this par
ticular aro not wholly Tcassuring, al
though some of tho embargoes havo
been lifted. An encouraging sign is
seen in the evident desire of both conl
owners and miners to settle their dif
ferences on terms which will cover a
period of four years. Bank clearings
arc heavy and the money market, while
reflecting comparative ease, shows fir
mer tendencies. Peace rumors founded
on dreams were responsible last week
for unsettlemcnt in the security market
and prices made only a partial recovery
on tho official denial of tho reports.
There aro increasing evidences of tho
HOOKER PLACE SOLD
Manley to Erect Four-Story Gar
age on Rear Part
Rcsldenco Will Bo Thrown on Markot .
Manley Brothers Will Continue to.
Occupy Present Quarters.
Another important deal in Brattle
boro real estate was concluded Friday
forenoon, when John B. Manley of tho
firm of ManlcV Brothers, nutomobilo
dealers, received deeds to tho IWkef
property at tho corner of Main nM
High streets, formerly occupied by Col.
ueorgo w. iooKer ana ramiiy and oc
cupied by Mrs. Hooker slnco Col.
Hooker's death. Tho purchase of this
property ndds one moro to the largo
number of real estate changes of tho
past few weeks, tho like of which has
not been known in Brattleboro in
many years. This deal is said to in
volve over $40,000.
Tho lot has a frontage of approxi
mately 1C0 feet on Main street and is
about .'100 feet deep. 'Mr. Manley ac
quired it for the purpose of providing
additional automobile sales and garago
facilities. He docs not plan to dis
turb the residence, but ho will erect
a brick building on tho rear of tho
lot, which will make necessary tho re
moval of the barn. The houso and tho
front part of the lot will bo thrown
on tho market.
While Mr. Manley has not decided
definitely on dimensions, etc., it is bin
intention to erect a four-story building
practically the width of the lot, 150
feet, and 30 feet wide. There will bo
an entrance on Main street and two
entrnnccs on High street, ono each on
i the second nnd third stories. Work on
tendency to shift from wnr stocks to
more stable industrial issues, to railroad tho j)Uii(1ig will begin the' coming sea
shares. Tho bond market on the whole onn
shows a healthy activity. Tll0 Manley firm occupies all but tho
top floor of tho Armory building at
GERMAN SITUATION GRAVE.
. tho comer of High and Green streets,
I just across High street from tho
ITnnlfnr npnnprtv TMinv will nnnlimm
Washington Arousod by the Repeated to occupy those quarters, but they
Aorpcaouig or vessels, Home uarry- neeu more room ana win maintain an
lng Americans,
The relations between tho United
States and Germany have been great
ly strained in tho last few days through
the repeated torpedoing of steamships
M-Sllnnl ........ n ...l.!A1.
COME IN AND LOOK OVER
THE NEWEST ANU
Latest Styles for Spring 1916
in Overcoatings, Suitings
and Trouserings
Suits, from $20 to $40
Trousers, from $ 5 to $12
Havo jour clothes mutlo FOIl YOU
anil Kct clothes Hint Wll.l, 1'IT ami
Klvo mtisliictory fci vice.
Tho bcbtthcrols In Tullorlus.
WALTER H. HAIGH
Custom Tailor Elliot Street
oran&Rohde
Embafmeis and Funeral Dlreolors
rhonc351.W. 57 Main St., Brattleboro, Vt.
Vt.MccnsolD0.105. N.H.LIceii6e227.
SCOTT FARM
E. C. TENNEY, Mgr.
Illue Ribbon Guernsey Butter and I'll re
bred Hull Cal tea for aale.
Visitor alirayt welcome. Orders taken
now for pure Maple Syrup.
FLOWERS
Loose or in DESIGNS can al
ways bo hud nt right prices of
HOPKINS, THE FLORIST
Main Street, Urattleboro
The Melrose Hospital
WEST BRATTLED ORO, VT.
Well mulnncil for tho caro of modi
tal, surgical nnd confinement ensea, also
chronic Invalids, rhcumntlcs, nervous nnd
mini incniai enscn. wkiiiou nursing, goou
iDoii unu reiiBolinuio rates.
1)11. 15. n. LYNCH, Sunt.
Helena D. Jlnlliuwb, Mutruti,
125 HOLSTEINS
Registered cows in inilk'and
soon to calve, yearlings and
calves for
SALE AT AUCTION
APRIL 18, 19
at Bellows Falls, Vermont.
SI'.ND FOR PRINTED MST
Purebred Live Stock Sales Co.
Brattleboro, Vt.
C. N. BOND
Telephone 231-X.
Newfane Inn
WILL OPEN
Monday, April 3
Under the Ownership Man
agement of
E. A. WHITCOMB
Persons having business
in Newfane during court ses
sions, and at other times,
will find excellent accomoda
tions at this hotel.
TARIFF COMMISSION BILL.
The administration bill creating a
nonr-partisaii tariff commission, Intro
duced in tho house this week by Rep
resentative Uainoy, the ranking Demo
ocratic member of tho ways and means
committee, is expected to receive Re
publican support. Proposed by both
wings of the Republican party in 1912,
tho measure has never had tho endorse
ment of a Democratic platform. It
amounts, therefore, to the acceptance
by ono party of an idea repeatedly ad
vanced by another. The purpose of
tho bill in essentially to cast light on
dark places; to gather and put at tht
disposal of congress actual information;
to mako it possible for congress to en
act tariff legislation with u sure and
obvious knowledge of its effect.
Heretofore tariffs have been pro
posed and enacted according to tho
fads and fancies of accidental, self
constituted and generally more or less
mistaken authorities. With such a
commission ns tho Rainey bill pro
poses, wo should bo ablo to go about
the task of schedule making with in
finitely better understanding and far
less chance of, bungling than over here
tofore. It is tliflictilt to find honest ground
for objection to tho bill and there aro
endless reasons why it should becomo
law.
ofilco and show room in the new build
ing, besides having a large amount of
storago room. At present they havo
cars stored on ono floor of tho old
Ccntcrvillo factory, owned by the Tin-
filntn fin. X- Vlnnirin C ITI.non n-.
without warning, some of which carried ters will be given up when tho now
Americans. The most sorious disaster .building is erected.
took placu Saturday, when tho Sussex,) Tho Hooker residence formerly was
a channel liner, was blown up. Sho known as tho nunt place. At ono
carried 380 passengers, and about 50 I time it was occupied by Georgo Howe,
lost their lives. There were about a la prominent lawyer. Col. Hooker
dozen Americans on board, and it was bought it in 1882 and after making ox-
.thought rtt first-flint some. of theso had ronsiyo improvements moved into it in
I... -li i.'"..i-'i.a.. ..,.i ioco-! - -H
litliSUUII, UUb UJI .ill. U ui-luuuh;u , OJU.
for, although Georgo Crocker of Fitch
burg, Mass., is in a critical condition
in an English hospital with a fractured
skull. Ho was hit on the head by a
falling must. A Dominion lino steam
er, The Englishman, used as a horse
ship, was sunk near the British isles,
and in this disaster four Americans
went to their death. The British
steamer Minneapolis was torpedoed in
the Mediterranean, and 11 persons wcro
drowned, but none were Americans
ATTACHED BY BARBER FIRM.
Lawers Act to Secure Note Befora
Hooker Deed Is Recorded Attach
ment on Homestead Removed.
II. C. & F. K. Barber, attorneys for the
Mohawk Overall Co. of Schenectady, X.
The Eagle Point, reported sunk from i . i
QueenstSwn, carried Americans, but the homestead of Mrs. Mary G. Hooker,
one, James Gleason of Boston, was res- , . , ! ' , . ,
iri. o .i. .'. members .of the Mohawk company, which
recently went out of business, and on the
cued. Tho fate of others is uncertain
The German drive at Verdun has sub
sided. There have been repeated re
Hooker building on the east side of Main
street, occupied mostly by the Dunham
V."" Ul "Bh euuuier uiiuBKB, 1!rothcrs Co, Tho firm took
uui uppareiue y nuuiing uec.sive ims. tio beforo the deed of tho homestead
been accomplished by either side. Air
ships nave uccn active at several points,
but no great damago lias resulted.
VILLA ELUDES PURSUERS.
Escapes to Mountains Where Ho Began
Career as Bandit Carranza Forces
Havo Not Revolted.
propoity to John 11. Manley, who bought
it Friday, could bo recorded in tho
town cleik's ollice, in order to protect a
claim which the firm holds against Mrs.
Hooker and her son. On Saturday tho
attachment aviis taken off the homestead
property, at the coiner of Main and High
streets, but an attachment was left on
tho Hooker building.
H. G. Barber said Saturday that tho
law firm had taken this action to protect
themselves, as they have sued for their
"A man who helps a boy
Is lincstlnir In an cnteiprlso that alwayi,
pnyi, a illvlileml." insurance to cover
the Investment scrures tho ileht nnd
helps to mulco a uuin of the Imy. j$u
tlonfil Ufo Insuiuiu'o Co., Montpeller, vi
(Mutual.)
ALDERT C. LAIRD, Special Agent
Abbott Block, Brattleboro Vt.
EXCLUSIVE UNDERTAKING
iBJonb & &on
L'mbalinerB
Automobile Scrrlre Tele phone Z6l-
HHATTLKIIOUO.VT.
Court Decides Against Actress.
Vermont ers will bo interested to learn
that I.aurn Biggar, tho actress, is not
entitled to a shnro In the- estate of the
Into Henry W. Bennett, tlientncnl ninn
iigcr, other than tho beuuests left to lux
in the Bennett will. Tho couple ninln.
tnined u homo in Rutland county nt
ono time.
This hns hrmi .lcclilcd liV tho Xovv
Jersey couit nf errors and appeals af
ter litigation covorlng 1" .V,rH ' New
Whatever Americans may think of
tho Germnn policies it is not fair to
assail the integrity of Count Von Berns
torll', tho German Ambassador at Wash
ington. He has occupied with extra
ordinary ability the most dlfiicult posi
tion of any diplomat in tho world, and
ho deserves at least tho treatment ac
corded to gontlomen nnd mcu of honor.
Supposo that thrco years ago Huerta,
then recognized by Great Britain, Ger
many and othor nations as tho presldont
of Mexico, hnd sout word to Woodrow
Wilson that tho United States might
hold an election for president but that
he, Wilson, must not bo a candidate,
How would tho pcoplo of tho United
Htatcs enjoy bucIi a missive? But that
is just what Wilson did to Huerta.
What business hnd ho to do anything
of tho sort? Now wo aro paying for
his stubborn folly.
Tho affairs of tho Now England
Farmer havo been closed up by a' re
eelver nt Montpeller nnd not a cent is
left for the general creditors. Tho pa
per was ono of tho oldest in its lino in,
; Jersey, New York ami Pennsylvniila.' tlio cntiro country, mid its homo ofilco
' Villa has apparently eluded his pur
suers and escaped into tho mountainous , , j t t, u commny :..
regions of Mexico whero he began ms tms Sllit brought by the Hooker. Corser &
career as a bandul. Mitchell Co. of this town. H. G. & F. E.
Tho Carranza garrison at Chihuahua, 'pber hold a note for ?5,000 made by the
which was reported to have revolted Hookerg nnd rnyable to the order of
for tho purpose of joining forces with clwvlcs p. whitakcr, another member of
itla against tho Americans, is still the overall company, nnd endorsed by him
true to tho do facto government of lo Jr c, Sc V E Baiber
Mexico, but it Is believed that tho I Tl' remov ot tlie attachment from
garrison nt Casas Grnndes made no at- the j10m(.stend property, Mr. Barber said,
tempt to stop Villa when ho passed consi(cl.ation of the fact that a con
near t lint point. 'sidcrablo poition of the money received
Gen. Carranza has given tho Amen- f)om f, 8nlo of Ule honiestea l is tn ,)e
can authorities permission to use tho ,io(1 t() t)e mluctiou of the mortgage on
railway lines in transporting supplies , H k building.
Ill IUU iYllll'1 11.111 DUlUR-m m nil- j.i.m.-
tive expedition, but specifies that muni
tions shnll not bo shipped by rail and
thnt army guards shall not accompany
tho cars carrying supplies.
Congress has voted an appropriation
of over $8,000,000 for tho expenses of
the expedition and has provided for
sending eight moro aeroplanes to tho
border. Two of the eight Hying ma
chines with which tho aero service
S6.000 FOR REVIVAL PARTY.
Chapman-Alexander Party Closes En.
gagement of Five Weeks In Wash
ington, Pa., Tabernacle.
was equipped havo been smashed and j0nday evening
four others nro out of commission, lenv- jn .jjjjj, jg 0f
lug only two available for real service I ?it10 frce.vill
at tho present time.
Roving linnds ot villa
The Washington, (Pa.) Reporter of
contained tho follow
interest here:
ill offering for tho nicm
supporters b9rs ,0'.th,?..Ch2ri"l!.A,cnd.er ?.art'V'
have been re orted m the Santa Maria nf tlin ,....,., ...,,,,, .,.,, im?lf
who. havo been for livo wcoks in charge
.. !!,... I,,, I fl..... 1,n.n unl .,,,. i 111 llllllliuiy II nuivii Luuiereu IllJUUl
ioiK't w h ho American eavX. n tl10 bi 'ernnde, will probably reach
contact viitn tno American cnairymon. $oo0O- A wornil,K Mr, winters, of
Vormont Poultry Breeders' Officers.
tho Real Estate Trust Co., nnd Rev. Mr.
Slemmons, chairman of the committee
D. E. Tnsker, election commissioner, chargo of securing this f;eo-wIll of
has lately been conducting tho nomi- foring, wcro busy with the pledgo enrda
nation and election of olllcers for the " anu chocks, iryiug to unit out
Vermont Poultry Breeders' association.
Tho election ballots were opened and
counted Mondny night nnd these of
ficers wcro elected:
President, A. B. Wheolor of St. Al
bnus; vlco president, C. A. Rovoir of
St, Albans; secretary, W. G. Frcomnu
of Bellows Falls; treasurer, E. H. Hem
inwny of Manchester; cxecutivo board
for two years, O. h. Curtis of St. Al
bans, N. L. Divoll of Bellows Falls, R.
H. Peck of West Rutland; oxecutlvo
board for one year. F. F. Gray of
Townshond, P. 0. St. Croix of Bellows
Falls, W. B, Scott of Barro.
just whoro tboy were at. At noon it
was stated that tlio best count ut that
timo showed n littlo moro thnn $5,000
was in hand, and it was stated that
tho offering for tho leaders of the party
would probobly reach $0,000
"On Dr. Slemmons dovolvcd tho duty
of presenting tho matter of this offer
ing to tho taboruaclo crowds, and inci
dontnlly it camo out that Dr. Chapman
much ndmired nnd appreciated the con
fidence and enthusiasm with which that
part of tho work was done.
."Tho olVoring which lias been made
to tho members of this party is about
