tm (I (l fl
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPARITIES
t
o
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
.
THIRTY-EIGIITII 4 VR
I A
I 1.
UCOURT IN RUINS
FRENCH ARMY LEAVES IT
Trenches Torn to Dust by Huge German Shells Become
Untenable Hand to Hand Fight Raged Through Streets
As French Retired to New Trenches Crown Prince
Sacrificed Whole Battalion In Effort to Break French
Wedge German Loss Estimated Above 20,000
Paris, March HI. French
ruins of Malancourt, but still
from Bethincourt to Esnes,
today.
Following a bombardment, which lasted all night, the j
Germans drove the French from their wrecked positions
by thVee massed attacks delivered simultaneously at three
places. J
Before the French soldiers gave ground, however, they
foueht the Germans hand to hand for hours. As the'
, . i i. i l'ii icertnintv as to what realiv damaged
troops were mixed up m one struggling mass artillery onju, susiex-submarine torpedo or mine
lintri ciflp hprnmp silpnt fnr fp'ir nf trill in O" t VlP wrnriP- DIPTl . caused cabinet ministers to move
Finally the French advance guard battalion fell bacV
in good order, leaving hundreds of bayonetted Germans
., . m1 t-, I-, i i i j. i i jr
in men' waKe. ine rrencn
tified positions on highways leading from , Malancourt.
As they retreated slowly through the town's debris
strewn streets the Teutons followed and the fight raged
from door to door until new trenches were reached, and
there the German advance was checked and remnants of
the Crown Prince's forces took refuge behind ruined
walls.
In the Avoncourt wood where the French salient was
like a small wedge in the German ranks, the crown prince
sacrificed several whole battalions endeavoring to break
the position, according to the communique.
, Twice the Germans came on hurling
hand grenades which exploded harmless
ly on top of the defense shellers.' When
they were struggling among barbed
wire entanglements the French loosed
sheets of fire at them. Bodies hinging
in the entanglements were brown to
pieces by succeeding volleys. The Ger
miiiis best ei 'forts failed to force evacu
ation of the lie! Iiincotirt-Malancourt
1 ri-i ngle.
A stroii" attempt was made by tier-
mas to carry French
positions east of1
llaudiemont. 1 here, again
the Pins:
communique said, many Teutons were
slain and the attack was repulsed.
Artillery Commands Approaches.
London, Mar. III. With huge Her
man shells smashing their trenches in
to ruins, French troops have evacuated
ill but the eastern and southern
,,!.!
skirts of Malancourt, Paris dispatches;
admitted today. Thev said the (lerinan I
artillery rendered other defenses un
tenable. The highway which intersects the vil
lage is covered with a pall of dust and
sii.oke si.ot with bright Hashes of flame
as French guns shower shells oil it.
lleivy explosives are being planted reg
ularly with mathematical accuracy on
eeiy loot of the road, so that the
(lei loans will not be able to advance
ah ng it or seize any portion of it.
Twenty thousand Hermans have been
hilled or maimed is the result of the
crown prince's renewal of his attack
niainst Verdun, according to the esti
iri.tes of French officials.
I:
ABE MARTIN
A feller can's be hampered by facts
an' information an' be a good orator.
Pony M,ip s i home from a barber 's
college tim l'in' like a potted kriuiuth.
4
1 JH
troops have evacuated the
hold the highways' running
it was officially announced
aroppeu duck, to sirungiy iur-
The new assault was launched on
both banks of tiie Meuse. Massed bat
teries on hill 304 wiped out whole bat
talions when the (.tcriunns rushed at
,,,rf iv..n..h ,.ffi, i war,-h ne
the spectacular charge through field
glasses saw great, blood v gaps torn in
the charging 'ranks. '
A few survivors, few of them unin-
hired, gamed a foothold m the village
foothold in the village,
Hut there toe dash halted. The Teuton
officers rein lining evidently saw they
had not onougn men leu to continue
tne drive, and more Mien every mininc
even as they criuched helium ttie shel
ter of ruined walls and heaps of debris.
The ratio of (lerinan losses in the
new attacks on Dauauniont yesterday
was the heaviest yet recorded, Paris
claimed. For two d ivs before the al-,'"
tempted advance Cennan guns were
shellinir eastern Malancourt and the
l iencn
cannon
defenses
on Bois
fronting south. French
Boiirrus hill and Mill
Ilu4 replied shell for shell.
The crown prince is expected to hurl
fresh troops at Malancourt and the
Avocourt woods simultaneously within
'lie next i'ew days. Yesterday's thrusts
at Don turnout were believed a diver
sion intended to keep the French busy
while the (ioniums prepared to renew
thiir attacks northwest of Verdun.
The government doe? not possess
proof upon which to base a formal
charge that tlerinany is renewing its
illegal submarine warfare. At its ses-l
sion today the cabinet inspected the
circumstantial evidence surrounding the
Sussex e tse. Following adjournment,
officials stated there was no positive
evidence that the channel steamer had
been torpedoed. No action will be
taken until positive proof is furthcom
ing. Not a wiiil has been received
vet from Amb'issudor Oerard at Berlin.
Wonderful Adventures.
of Game Little Jim Dick
Columbus, N. M.. Mar. SL After a
hike of S7 miles over the desert little
",Iim" Dick, the five-year old son oC
an American rancher found a home of
the hearts of the American soldiers on
the border. "The little feller." pre
cocious beyond his years, nud nervy as
the toughest bonier veteran, has been
adopted as the ward of the border
1 guard guard His father, ,T. B. Dick,
j has been found a place us night watch
, man.
i The heart of the i amp went rut t to
llitlle Jim and bronzed men in khaki
found time for -sentiment when he came
trudging into Columbus, clinging to his
; father's hand. Both were nt the point
of exhaustion and dim was being fairly
tlragged over the last leg of tiie jour
ney.
"(live the kid some water, for GoJ'.-
SALEM,
AiurL
IE
Lack of Positive Knowledge
As To Sinking of Vessels
Delays Action
By Robert J. Bender.
(Tinted Press stuff correspondent.)
Washington, Mar. III. President
Wifodl'ow Wilson iind liis cabinet again
discussed tlie submarine crisis today,
facing a muddled problem in t lie mans
of evidence before them.
Of the four vessels concerned in re-
TlllVStOOd tllO JMlglO
service of t he Brit
many will I'ontt'ml t
lerstood tho Kaglo Point was in the
itish ndnuvaltv, Ger-
the steamer Knglish-
man was torpedoed only when it tried
to escape, that the channel steamer Sus
sex hit a mine. Officials believe it a
foregone conclusion that the kaiser will
advance some defense tir the .sinking of
the British steamer Manchester Engin
eer. Americans were on board all of
these ships.
The president and dprrctnry Lansing
hope to obtain evidence from United
Slates consuls so strong that definite
conclusion's can bo based niton it. There
have been no advices from Ambassador!
Gerard in Berlin and this is contribut-'
ing to the present difficulties. The un-
more
delibcrntelv than
it wus supposed
action will be
thev
would. Drirst'u
" f 'U:'ly ht
Germany torpedoed one ot the sh'ps
trpei
v ;,i,mtt
warning.
Market Still Quiet
Small Change In Prices
New York, Mar. III. The New York
livening Sun's financial review lodav
said:
In the absence of important Mexican
or submarine developments the m irket
continued in a waiting altitude and
there was little of interest or import
ance in price movements. Dealing
were highly pr ifessionul as a natural
result of the many uncertainties which
militate against enl ugenient of public
buying. Such activity as there was,
was centered in a few issues. War
stocks and industrial specialties were
relegated to a secondary position n fa
vor of copper stocks, whsch improved
under tne lea.ierstnp or isennecotr, bli
!' Anaconda. Prices were not
! considerably changed in cither direction
j opening.
Although the tone was somewhat bet-
"'r, irauing was narrow ami nesitanng.
I Here was a disappointingly narrow
lappointingiy
market among nilwav shares, which
were restrained by the trainniens ' de
mands. A moderate increase in activ
ity was noted in war stocks and special
ties in the late trading under the lead
ership of Crucible Steel,.
RODE 4,000,000 MILES .
London, Mar. 111. Thomas Kmsey,
'lean ot trans atlantic pursers, ended Uis
eleventh hundredth round trip across
the ocean when he Arrived here yester
day ami began his well earned retire
ment. His first crossing was from
Liverpool to Philadelphia, in lSoII.
1
; VILLA KILLS AMERICANS
!
I
'
Kl Paso, Texas, Mar. "1. An
unconfirmed report was eir
ciilated here today that Fran
cisco Villa in flight from (luer
rero had murdered several
Americans at Miuacn, 10 miles
south. Mining men and Mexi
co Xorthweslcrn riilroad offi
cials were attempting to get
definite news. The last reports
said the Americans at (itierrero
were Dr. Stell and men named
Locke. Aeklin, llemple and Her
man Blankeiiburg.
sake. " gasped the mariT" His lips were
cracked and purple, his nostrils fringed
uith alkali dust.
An officer caught little Jim as the
boy fell limp to the sand and tipped a
canteen to his lips. The haggard man
clutched another canteen. Water gurg
led down his throat.
(If ficers took the strange pair to a
low adobe hut. There in the cool dark
ness little Jim brightened and the man,
his arms manging loose at his sides,
droned the story in a flat, colorless mon
otone. "I had a ranch about 87 miles down
in Chihuahua," he began. "A little
while ago my wife died. I was prepar
ing to come back to the states with
Jim here when the Villistas came. Jim
(Continued on Faae Tare )
OREGON, FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1916
11.
m hit
,iUli
District Attorney, Lawyers,
Photographers, and News
papermen In Bunch
WITH THEM IS WAITE
CONFESSED POISONER
Undertaker Pilots Party Over
Sand Dunes Looking for
Money He Buried
New York, Mar. 111. Like actors in
a motion picture thriller District Attor
ney Swnnn's men, a corps of lawyer,
Dr. Arthur Warren Waite, confessed
poisoner, and a host of newspaper
photographers rode through the lonely
stretches of Long Island at dawn to
dav, looking for buried money.
Thev were hunting for the !),nil()
which Fugene Kane, undertaker, admits1
having received from Dr. Waite after
the death by arsenic poisoning of John j
L. Peck, Waite 's father-in-law. Waite
claims he gave Kane the cash so he,
would ttstify that he put arsenic in (he
embalming fluid, thus explaining the i
presence of that poison in Peck ' -sys-
tern after death. K.me says he got the
mone but denlrs ever having any in-,
teutinu ot giving talse testimony.
He was included in the strange party,
which went probing among the Long Is
land sand dunes for the money. Kane
led the crowd, trying to point out where
he buried his treasure. Workmen with
shovels and picks delved here and there,
while seagulls cried mournfully over
head' and the confe.ved poisoner, who
says his wicnl "niter-ego'1 made him
kill people, stood and stared out to sea.
Mrs. .Margaret Horton, close compan
ion of Waite. has admitted that he gave
her a diamond and platinum ring worth
$2,000.
The grand jury may return indict
ments tnjlay. It is considered certain
that Waite will be held for first degree
murder, and true bills may also be re
turned against persons suspected of hav
ing guilty knowledge of his crime,
"The Man From Egypt."
All the evidence in the vase is be
ing laid before the grand jnrors. They
have heard about Waite's romance with
Mrs. Horton, "the other woman,"
about how he dabbled in the occult, how
he needed money to maintain his va
rious establishments and hoiv he began
studying not only persons but also viru
lent disease germs, visiting morgues
and undertaking rooms to collect th
bacilli he wanted.
District Attorney Swann told Hie jury
hoiv Waite invited his wealthy father
and mother-in-law to visit him nt
Iiivcrsido Drive apartments, and now
neither of them ever lefl the place
alive. The probers were also given fel
benefit of Waile's plea that he vr
forced to commit tlo-se murders bv :
mysterious spirit called "the man fi'""
Lgvpt " which kept whispering in hi;
ear and influencing him.
Kent, the undertaker, entered a
stong defense. He said Waite got him
in a telephone booth, savagely ordered
n to put arsenic in the embaltnliie
fluid and forced a large sum of money
into his hands. Kane declared he wni
So scared he "shook like a leaf," an.4
asserted he went home and hid the cash
without counting it. Later the presence
of this "Mood money" in his house
made him nervous, no he carried it un
der his coat to a desolate spot oa tin
Long fsland const and buried it nmoni
the sand dunes.
Doctor Is indicted.
New York, Mar. .11 Dr. Arthur War
reu Waite was indicted today on n
first degree murder charge. It is al
leged lie poisoned his wealthy father-in-
law, John K. Peek, of (Irani! Hnpids.
Mich.
The indictment was presented bv the
grand jury formally , Judge Xot( in
the court 'if general sessions. the
grand jury has conducted a continuous
hearing since .Monday. Dr. Waite, i'
was stated, will not be nrrnlgned on the
murder charge until Monday. His con
dition is much improved. District At
torney Sivtinn is expected to den, and
that Waite be tried in the supreme
court.
BIO STEAMER AGROUND
San Francisco, Mar. III. Official o'
the Tovo Kiien steano-hip line today re
reived unofficial reports that the liner
Chivo Maru had run aground on one of
the I .ems Island-, off the Chinese const.
They had no confirmation from thei
own sources, but were making inquiries.
According to their early information
thu accident was Lot e-rious.
LIKE SCENE IV
MOTION PI l
mm
GANG BADLY WHIPPED
Authentic Report As To Villa s
Location He Has Been
Heavily Reinforced .
Sun Antonio, Texns, Mar. 31. Major
(leneral Fred Funston today received
authentic but unofficial reports that
Francisco Villa is working along the
railroad from (iuerrero toward Chihua
hua City. Americans and Villistas, said
the report, had exchanged 'shots.
I'linston is certain that fighting has
occurred between Villistas and members
of the expeditionary forces.
"We have reports," he said, "thai
Villa has been strongly reinforced. I
am confident, however, that our capabb
men under strong leadership can tak
care of themselves.
"Some of our isolated detachments
are bound to suffer, but if Villa stand.;
against our larger forces he will dis
cover their mettle."
Funston refused to name the source
of his advices Carranzistas, he sai
were strongly co-operating.
"Unless we bring Villa to decisiyf
battle ho can continue his 'flight to
ward Central America, declared Funs
ton "I hate to consider the difficulties
of maintaining or lines of comiuiiuicq
tion much farther."
Army men believe there may have
been clashes in which the Villistas were
numerically stronger. Funston, in fore
stalling rumors, stated he expected f
receive unauthentic reports of Amer
ican casualties.
(leneral Pershing has joined the re
al ry advance guard apparently aware
that Villa is about to give battle.
Funston predicted that Pershing's 'u ,
telligence and -skill would offset any j
numerical advantage ot tne mivt
should there be an open clash. He re-'
fuwd to divulge the location of the
main American column.
The general stated that the Villis
tas marched southwnrd through Miuava
after the (Iuerrero fight following the
railroad lending southwest. He would
not comment on Hie Mexican railway
situation except to mention the fact
that there has ns yet been no ship
ments over the Mexico Northwestern.
in hi-s southward march from (Iuer
rero Villa is not following the (luer-rero-Chihiiahtin
City main railroad line,
it was learned.
Chinatown Police Squad
Raid Chink Social Club
San Francisco, Mir. Dl. Amid melo
iliaiaic scenes reminiscent of "the
diieen of the highbinders" and other
thrillers, the new Chinatown police
sipiad under Sergeant Andrew dnugh
ran raided Wah Fat's social club in
Hoss alley shortly after midnight today.
One Chinese was killed in.l one sustain
ed n broken collar bone trying to flee.
More than 40 Chinese were gathered
in the resort when the police assailed
its doorway wilh axes. Panileoiuniuin
reigned. The hollow thud of the hatchet
was followed by the splintering of wood
and the crash if breaking glass, lie
fore they reached the cliibroonis the
siptul had to siursh four thick doors.
DESERT AUTOS FOR CARRIAGES
(By Foiled Press.)
Xcw York, Mar. III. The demand
along eastern fashionables for thorough
bred carriage horses during the last
mouth indicates a reversion to hoof
drawn instead of motor driven plcisure
vehicles this spring, horse dealers here
said today. They added that tiie rising
price of gasoline had nothing to do
with tho change.
FEATHER PRICES DOUBLED
(By Vailed Press.)
New York, Mar. III. Lending millin
ers todnv announced that ostrich
plumes worth i'l before the war now
cost $i.til) because a corn shortage due
to the closing of Furopean mirkets has
starved to death Ido.OuO nf the NOO.Olld
ostriches in South Africa, the home of
the ostrich feather industry.
We Claim to Be Americans
But There Are Many Others
By William G. Shepherd, 1 t.onent of whiskey and his cork in that.
(1'nited Press Staff Correspondent) 'ilireetion is beyond criticism, lie is
Snlonica, Greece, Feb. X). (By Mail) in Toronto now, I believe, or, at least
There were three parsons in our hos- he was scheduled to be there at about
pital staff. One was an Kpiseopnlian ' this time.''
from Toronto, lie had been a member' The parson was right. Billy Sunday
of a committee of clergymen from that ' wns there and the lieu batch of news
city who had gone to Philadelphia to papers that came iu from Toronto wero
look int,i the matter of inviting Billy splashed with .Siindayisnis. The nurses
Sunday to Toronto and had reported
On their return that, "there was noth
ing doing; too strong medicine."
But this one person, here in Salonica,
was for Billy Sunday strong.
"It isn't the right way to preach
religion," he said, "but lie's right
about alcohol. He 'a u powerful op
rminr? rnrn
PRICE TWO
RTY DEAD MIS
RESULT OF
Colonel Dodd's Cavalry Dropped Down On 500 of Them
and Gave Them Taste of Real War Villa Was Not b
Fight, He Being Laid Up With a Broken Leg and Other
Injuries-Skirmish Took Place Wednesday-Many Guns,
Horses and Munitions Captured
Washington, March :1. The war department today
received confirmation of a report that Villistas had been
badly beaten in a clash with the American expeditionary
force.
Colonel George Dodd's cavalry struck the Villistas at "
six a. m. Wednesday near Guerrero, according to a war
department message from the San Geronimo ranch. The
dispatch was dated yesterday and transmitted from Gen
eral Pershing via General Funston's headquarters.
Villa, suffering from a broken leg and other injuries,
was not in the battle. The Villistas left 30 dead on the
battlefield. Others are believed to have been killed.
Dodd captured two rapid fire guns, many saddles, horses,
munitions and supplies.
The attack was a tremendous surprise to the Villistas.
They did not have time to arm before the American
r.fl.valrv was unon them. Dodd's men had marched 55
miles in 17 hours to overtake
Commander F.lisoo Hernandez, of the'
Villistas wis killed. The Mexicans
showed no fighting rpiaiiries, said the
dspatches. They merely grabbed the
nearest guns, mounted their horses and
fled. A running fight ensued.
The battle lasted while American and
Mexicans galloped side by side for 10
miles, fighting. At last tiie bandits
separated lad fled to the mountains,
abandoning a number of Cnnanzistas
who had been taken prisoner in previ
ous encounters. Four Americans wero
wounded, none seriously ill the fight.
Tne war department's message said:
"San (ierouinio, Mar. ISO Colonel
Oeorge Dodd struck Villi's command
consisting of 5011 men at six o'clock
Wednesday morning at (Iuerrero. Villa,
who was Buffering from a broken leg
and a lame hip, was not present. The
number of Villa dead is known to be
.'in. Piobabl" others were carried away
dead. Dodd eipturcd two machine
guns, a large number of horses, saddles
and arms. Our casualties consisted of
four enlisted men wounded, nou seri
ously. The attack was a surprise, tho
Villistas being driven back in a 10 mile
running fight. Tin v retieated to Moun
tain! northwest of the riilroad where
they separated into small bands. A
large number of ( an an.ista prisoners
who were being held for execution were
liberated during tho fight. In order
to reach (Iuerrero, Do. 1. 1 marched fio
miles in 17 hours. Hernandez, the V i 1
lista comiiiaudcr, was killed. Willi vil
la perm inentlv disabled and Lopez, his
chief lieutenant, wounded, Hernandez
dead, the blow administered is a serf
oils one to Villa 's baud.
" I'KltSlI I NO. '
Caught Garrison at Dance.
Kl Paso, Texas, Mar. II I . Fr incisco
ilia was again reported wounded to
dnv. He was said to have been hit
while attacking I 'a rran 'istas during a
dance it (Iuerrero Tuesday, (leaeral
liivira said there was a possibility that
Villa had been caught between strong
American and i onsi ilnlioiinlist forces
southwest of Chihuahua city.
The mayor of Tcniosiiehic telegriphed
that he hml proof Villa had been
wounded in the left leg and that Mexi
cans saw him. in a wounded condition,
passing through Ciisihuiiiachi after tho
light at (iuerrero.
(laviiu unuoiin I (hit 1-00 cavalry
tinder (leneral Luis llerrera left Chi-
began talking llillv Sunday. S() did
the Canadian orderlies. The British of
ficers began asking:
"Who is this extraordinary person,
Sunday t"
The nurse tried to explain. So did
(Continued oa Taj'. Two.
r'r'wre N TRAINS AND EWfc
CENTo rtands five cent
FIRS! CIAS
the bandits.
"'iinhtta (lily i)u Wednesday to cut off
Villa's flight lo the southward, ller
rera telegraphed to Juarez, that be in
tended to lull Villa and ship his head
to Consul ','ar-M ill Kl Paso, (larcia
predicted a battle between llerrera and
Villa today or tomorrow, possibly with
Iho American vanguard arriving in
time to support the Curranzistas.
-Villa was reported to have captured
consider ible ammunition and supplies
at (luerrdero. He is believed to hay
been reinforced by recruits gathered iu
the friendly (Iuerrero district and o
conscription.
(laviru believed there might be Car
rnnzista losses nmong tiio (iuerrero gar
rison, which totals 50 to 7." men. Ad
vices said that when Villa rode into th
town most of the garrison troops were,
dancing. General Civnasos, the com
mander, escaped by leaping through a
window when Villa ciime iu the door.
It was reported Villa would not attempt
to regain the town and would continue
hia flight southward, niming to reach
the east slope of the great divide. Am
eric ins believe iie is still on the west
slope.
By II. D. Jacobs.
Aviatovu On the Job.
U. 8. Army lleadipiurters, Dublan,
Mex., Mur. III. vlly motor to Colum
bus.) "American irmy aviators in
Mexico are. encountering conditions
never faced before,'' said ( aptaiu Foul
ois of the iicio sipiad today.
"Tho Sierra Madres create shifting
winds and dangerous uir pockets," ho
continued. "The hind altitude of ono
mile gives our machines x leeway of
only one mile in tho air, as they are.
only equipped for a maximum altitude
of two miles. Despite this and despite
rough landing plmcs, there has been,
no serious mishap.
"A Ian. I altitude of nearly two miles
which we will ci unter further south
will undoubtedly test oor men and ma
chines to the utmost, Their experience
now makes them superior to iny aerial
force of the same numbers iu the
world."
Ilegulur aeroplane mail deliveries are
being made by the military flyer nt
Dublan. Thev make the flight from
Columbus daily.
The American infantry column is
marching southward. Francisco VilU
is somewhere l"."i miles sooth, it ia be
lieved. A triiiiiload of Carranzistas
has been sent southward from Casus
Grande. Small groups of constitution
alist soldiers are co operating with the
American viuguard. (ienerul I'ershiuj
is highly satisfied with the treatment
he has received fium Cnrranza represen
tatives. ' i
THE WEATHER
Oregon: To
night nud Satur
day fair; north
erly winds.
iooK v-u"r.;:"i
J&0
