Herald
The Leading Paper
of Wcste rn
Nebraska
3,000 Copies
16 Pages
Two Section
READ BT EVERT MEMBER NEBRASKA STOCK GROWERS ASSOCIATION. ALL THE NEWS OF ALLIANCE AND WESTERN NEBRASKA
OFFICIAL ORGAN NEBRASKA VOLUNTEER FIREMEN'S ASSOCIATION. IT REACHES HEADQUARTERS FOR 10,000 FIREMEN ,
VOLUME XXIII
ALLIANCE, BOX BUTTE COUNTY, NEBRASKA, THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1916
NUMBER 86
Editors
The All
IANCE
We
Nebraska
come
9
The Alliance Herald, in behalf of the Associated Commercinl Clubs of Western Nebraska, the Western Nebraska Editorial Association, and the people of Western Nebraska, welcomes you
to our section of the great state of Nebraska. The entertainment which you have been accorded at the towns which you have visited is but a small taste of the hospitality which would hare been
shown you, had you the time to remain with us for a week or a ronth. To those of you who have never before visited this section of the state wo would say that the surprises which you have
received in seeing our little cities, our farms, our ranches and our developed and undeveloped resources would be continued with your stay. We are pleased to know that those who had been for
titrate enough to be here before were eager to come again. Western Nebraska has greeted you with an open heart and a smile of welcome. We greatly appreciate the fact that you have en
deavored to see every part of this section during your brief trip. We trust that you have seen a country that will linger in your memory as the land of energetic, busy, happy people. We are
but going through the process of evolution that eastern Nebraska passed through years ago. Those of us who have been here for only a few years marvel at the great changes which have taken
place in the country since we came. If you will come again in later years we promise you that you will also marvel at the changes which are taking place and will take place with the coming
years. We trust that you will remember us after returning to your homes in a way that will cause you to point out Western Nebraska to your readers through the columns of your newspapers
as "the land of promise." We have roo min this section of the state for more farmers. We have hundreds of thousands of acres of fertile, rich undeveloped farm land waiting for the tiller of
the soil. We know that you can now truthfully say to the homeseeker in your localities that Western Nebraska offers homes and opportunities to make a good living, and to educate their child
ren. The foot of the rainbow of promise is in Western Nebraska and at its foot is the pot of gold. In bidding you Godspeed we invite you to come again and we promise you that we will, as
citizens of the greatest state in the Union, do all in our power to assist you in the advancement of Nebraska, the state "Out Where the West Begins."
DIED FROM LOSS
OF BOTH LEGS
Laborer Goes to Sleep on Tracks and
Is Hun Over by Cars in
Night Left Family
Michael Higgins, aged 38 years,
died in the hospital Saturday morn
ing after he had been found In the
railroad yards wlm both legs sever
ed below the knees. The loss of
blood had been bo great that he
could not survive tne shock.
Higgins had been working at the
lock yards Friday and had evident
ly crawled under a line ot coal cars
to get out of the rain and had gone
to sleep. The switch engine moved
the cars about midnight but at that
time knew nothing of the accident
Higgins was found shortly after 1
o'clock by a railroad man and was
Immediately rushed to the hospital.
He died there shortly afterwards. He
leaves a wife and three small child
ren In St. Louis. Mrs. Higgins was
notified of his death by wire. The
remalnB were cared for at Darling's
undertaking; parlors and shipped on
Monday morning to his family at St.
Louis. . . '. , . .
MEDIATION AVERTS STRIKE
Brotherhoods Accept Proffer of Gov
eminent Board to Mediate Dif
ference with ltoads
Taking Extended Auto Trip
Mr. and Mrs. John Snoddy left
this morning in their Ford roadster
on an extended western auto trip
which will Include visits to points in
Wyoming and Montana. They will
visit relatives at Moorhead, Mont.
They will return in two or three
weeks. This is the nrBt vacation
that Mr, Snoddy has taken "in one
hundred years."
WEATHER REPORT
Report of temperature and rain
fall for the week ending August 9,
1916. reported by F. W. Hicks:
Aug. .Max. . Min. Precp.
3 98 57 .11
4 90 64 .55
5 92 60
79 59
7 88 56
8 91 59 08
r' 9 90 58
Total rainfall 74
Barbara
Socle of Minatare came
over Sunday to visit friends.
rall
the that
The threatened Btrike of the 400,
000 railway employes of the United
States was averted yesterday when
the railroad brotherhoods accepted a
proffer of the United States board of
mediation and conciliation to medi
ate their differences with the rail
The national conference of
road managers had rejected
men's demands and proposed
they be mediated by the federal tri
bunal. The brotherhoods refusing
to Join in an appeal to the tribunal,
the railroads made an individual ap
peal. The federal board, which is
in session here, then offered Its serv
ices to the brotherhoods.
The board immediately prepared a
communication to the brotherhoods
offering its services.
Meantime, it was stated the board
would remain in session to await the
brotherhood's reply.
It was indicated by members of
the board that the communication
was sent on the assumption that the
brotherhoods would accept tneir
fer.
SPECIAL TRAIN MAKING FINE TRIP
of-
Magazine and Paper Wanted
'The ladles of the Christian and
Methodist churches are making- an
effort to collect a carload of old mag
azines and papers to sell for the ben
efit of their churches. A house-to-house
canvass Is being made but
anyone overlooked or living in the
country who has magazines or old
papers to give to this cause, please
briiiK them to II. L. Onnnby's burn,
at 522 Box Butte avenue, or phone
Mrs. A. Gregory, 542. or Mrs. II. B
Alter, 84 8, and they will be collected.
COMMITTEE.
Examination for Stenogralier
The United States Civil Service
board announces that there will be
an examination at Alliance August
30 for the position of stenographer
and typewriter in the field service.
Both men and women will be admit
ted to the examination. Full particular-
may be obtained from F. W.
HIcUs. local secretary, at. the Alli
ance postoffiee.
LEARNING HOW TO DIG A TRENCH
imi mi i ih iiniwnm in wmmixa&vmmmtif"f ;,T'M'Hy::-v-ae:ft ?s
fi
r
7 1
v at
- 1 ; a
W K- a mo
1 A. i
Jt
4 1
? If i: ct
3
- i -
it:
7k ta
Members of the Nebraska National Guard, on the Texas-Mexico
international border, are being daily trained to become veteran sol
dierly One of Ibeir mott important duties is to b am bow to properly
dig a trencn.
Tbe special train carrying the members of tbc Nebraska PrcKS
AKsociation on tbeir big tour of western Nebraska left Grand Island
Monday afternoon at 4 o'clock. At Ravenna it was joined by Bur
lington Division Superintendent W. M. Wcidenbatner in his private
car, accompanied by Chief Clerk A. V. Arnold and Lloyd Thomas of
The Alliance Herald force. Mr. Weidrnhamer inn do the trip with
the train over the entire division, giving his personal attention to the
welfare of the distinguished visitors.
At Broken Bow the train was met by a big reception committee
ai.d a large number of automobiles. Following an auto rido a ban
quet was served to all. Afterwards speechmaking and funmnking
was indulged in at the big Chautauqua tent with over 1,000 Broken
Bow people as hosts. The train left nt midnight, passing through Al
liance at 5 o'clock Tuesday morning. )At Crawford the party was
served to an excellent cafeteria lunch for breakfast and taken out to
I'ort Robinson in autos. Walter C. Ruiylin, secretary of the Craw
fodr Chamber of Commerce, was much in evidence and helped in mak
ii g the guests feel at home.
The party was taken over the Northwestern to Chadron, where
dinner whs served in great style and where the. visitors were shown
around the interesting surrounding country. Earl Jackson, secretary
of the Chadron commercial club, had things lined up well with the
help of the local newspaper men and everyone enjoyed himself.
The party was then taken back to Crawford and down to Alli
ance over the Burlington. A stop of an hour was made at Alliance,
from 5 :30 to 6 :30. A large number of autos met the train and the big
lire truck took twenty-one editors on board and sailed over town with
them. The Alliance brass band furnished plenty of good music dur
ing their stay. On leaving, many of the editors were heard to ex
press their regret at not being able to make the stay longer for they
found Alliance to be -well worth seeing.
The train continued on to Bridgeport where they were banquet
ed and entertained Tuesday evening and where, they slept Tuesday
night. The citizens of Bridgeport did their bfest in, seeing that all
enjoyed themselves, ednesday morning the train was run to Chim
ncy Rock, where they were met by autos and taken overland to Bay
ard to see the site of the new sugar factory and other interesting val
ley points.
The urst business session opened at tiering at 4 o clock ednes-
da afternoon. The program follows:
4:00 P. M. First. ates'on of Nebraska Press Association, called to onlr by
Horace M. Davis President.
Meeting held in oluce of. Gering Courier.
Invocation': Rev. VV. S. York, Gering.
Welcome to Gerlnjr: A. B. Wood, Gering Courier.
Response and Annual Addrees of President, II. M. Davis, Ord Journal.
Roll Call.
lieport of Secretary-Treasurer.
Appointment of Committees: Auditing, Resolutions, President's Address.
A iiiual Poem: A. L. Bixby, Nebraska State Journal, Lincoln.
Paper: "Political Advertising and How to Handle It," E. E. Correll, Hebron
Journal. Discussion led by Adam Breede, Hastings Daily Tribune.
Paper: "The Itinerant and His Ad Scheme," Frank Brown, Kearney Morn
ing Times. Discussion led by Will C. Israel. Havelock Post.
Vnper: "Should the Country Paper Have an Editorial Page," L. E. Brown,
Bert rand Herald. Discussion led by L. D. Beltxer, Bradshaw Monitor.
Address: "The New Work of the Iowa Press Association," O. I Caswell,
Secretary, Denison, Iowa.
Hound Table: "Keeping Prices up to the Increased Cost of ' Production."
Leader: Don C. Van Dusen, Blair Pilot.
I .-.per: "How to Gt and Maintain Adequate Advertising Rate," J. F. Web
ster, St.' Paul Phonograph. Discussion led by A. D. Scott, Edtutr Sun.
Wednesday evening tbe party was taken to the country club at
l lie foot of Scotts Bluff and royally entertained. The stay was made
ovtr night at Gering and this morning the business session is being
eld at XeoltshliilT. This is the last business session, and the program
i- ns follows :
11:00 A. M. Second at'ssion of Nebraska PreHS Association, called to Older
by Horace M. Davis, President,
i :i oration :
v elcome to Scottsbluff: E. T. Wesiervelt, Scottsbluff Republican.
Response: J. M. Tanner, Nebraska Democrat, Omaha.
Paper: "Foreign Advertising and How to Get It," Lloyd Swain, Columbus
Telegram. Disi usnlon led by E. It. Purcell, Broken Bow Chief.
Taper: "How and Where to Draw the Line on Free Publicity." Karl Sien,
Franklin News. Discussion led by Burt Kroesen, So. Sioux City Record.
Ai'ilriKs: "Education for Efficiency and College Training for Journalism."
Prof. M. M. Fogg, I'niversiiy of Nebraska.
Pn per: "Should More Time be Devoted to the Newspaper and Lesn to Job
Printing," Fred B. Howard, Cliiy Center Sun. Discussion led by Geo.
('. Snow, Chadron Journal.
Bound Table: "The Cost System fp to Date." Leader: Clark Perkins.
Aurora Republican.
F vi Minu'e Talks: ' "Nebraska "Newspapers and the Nebraska Legislature."
Members of the Legislative Committee: J. W. Cutrlght, Lincoln Star;
M. A. Brown. Kearney Hub: Frank E. Helvey, Lincoln News Bureau;
F. O. Ediqecombe, Genera Sienal; . S. Foxworthy, Lincoln W. N. V.
P.M c r: "Bargain D;;ys. Do They Pay tin Publisher? Do Thy Pay the Mer
chant? How to Conduct Them." Chas. R. Kuhle, Leigh World. Dis
cussion led by C. G. Carlton. Oakland Independent.
Arr'ress: "Are Nebraska Newspapers Meeting Their Opportunities? What
They Most NVed." W. R. Watsoii, Omaha World-Herald.
Paper: "Should We Increase Our Subscription Prices." Miss Anna A. Hunt.
Ponra Advocate. Discussion led by C. B. Cass, Ravenna News.
Busf ti ras Session: Election of new officers; reports of committees; selection
of next meeting place; special business; recommendations of president
elect and announcement of committees.
Adjournment.
The program for this afternoon includes auto trips up and down
the valley to Mitchell, Minatare and other points of interest. The ed
itors and their families seem to be enjoying themselves srreatlv. The
train will leave tonight down the valley line of tke Union Pacific,
making stops Friday at North Platte and Kearney and ending the
inp at uranu uiand.
CITY OFFICERS REPORTS
City Departments Continue to Make
I Excellent Showing Improve
ments on Streets Continue
The city council met for its regu
lar monthly session at the city hall
Tuesday evening but on account of
lack of a 'quorum adjourned to meet
Friday evening.
Tbe extensive street Improvements
being made throughout the city are
receiving much favorable comment.
Several thousand dollars are bein.T
expended for curb and gutter Im
proving. Work is expected to start
very soon on the alley paving be
tween Box Butte and Laramie ave
nues and Third and Fourth streets.
" Reports of the city departments
and officers for the last month are as
follows:
Report of the police magistrate
showed receipts from fines amount
ing to 18; from Judge's fees.
NO RAISE IN VALUES
FOR BOX BUTTE
Protest of County Clerk v Hargrove
and Commissioner Duncan la
Heeded by State Hoard
There will be no raise In real es-
fate values for Box Butte county this
year. The state board of assessment
had notified the county officials that
they proposed to Increase the real
estate valuation five per cent. Thirty-eight
other counties received no
tices of similar proposed increases,
which would make a total Increase
of $8,228,658. A decrease was to
be given to fourteen counties,
amounting to $4,257,210.
The total assessed valuation of the
real estate In Box Butte county was
given at $2,054,154 In 1915 and $2.
186,520 In 1016, an Increase of
$133,866 this year over last-
The county officers appeared be-
$34.80; from marshal's fees. $25.20. tfore thft boRr4 Rt Llncoln on Tuesday
total of $78
The report of the electric light de
partment showed gross earnings of
$2721.12; discounts allowed, $175.
67; operating; expenses, $1306.61;
construction expense, $266.64: with
net earnings' 'of $783.87. The net
earnings for the previous month
were $782.74 and for the corre
spondlng month last year were
$718.53. The total number of con
sumers Is 665, an Increase over last
month of five.
The report of the city treasurer
showed a balance on hand of $154.20
the first of the month. Receipts
were $2167.33 and disbursements
were $264060, leaving an overdraft
In the general fund of $328.07, with
registered warrants unpaid amount
ing to 15.287.74$.
Balance on hand in the water fund
was $273.43 with receipts of 12520.
85 and disbursements of $1479, leav
ing a balance on hand of $1315.28
in this fund. Balance on hand in'
the light fund was $7736.46 with re
ceipts of $2584.69 and disburse
ments of $6148.13, leaving a balance
on nana or iti73.uz. in aaaiuon
to this there Is $2253.92 Invested In
general fund warrants. The ceme
tery balance is $217.93.
and were sustained In their objection
to the raise. This means that tbe
flrures as turned in will be accepted
and that taxes wlll.be no higher than
the original reports.
. IMg Fxlr In September .
The Alliance Fair Association held
a meeting Wednesday night and
made arrangements to have one of
the largest and best race meets this
fall that has ever been held in this
part of the country. There has been
$2,000 appropriated for the prizes
for the horse racing alone. The
premium list and program will be
printed soon. The dates are Septem
ber 27, 28 and 29.
ALLIANCE WINS, O TO 2
Before the great crowd of sixty
eight people the Alliance baseball
team took a fall out of the fast Mit
chell team yesterday by the score of
6 to 2. The home team got off to a
bad start In tbe first Inning, Mitchell
obtaining a two-run lead after two
were out. After this It was all off.
Bud Du nell having the Valley boya '
eiiMnr out of hi hsnd, and the. sup
port he received was sensational.
(Continued on local page)
NATIONAL GUARD AUTO WIRELESS STATION
1
. . v -..;.' . . U v -2 V j
Fremont, Nebraska, has furnished a signal company to the nat
ional guard now on the border. These men have an important duty
to perform in the transmission of official army messages.
v
