4812
VI U i f II j Li 1 i i
' PRICE TWO CENTS
VOL. LVIII- NO. 191
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1916
TEN PAGES 80 COLUMNS
,The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any Other P-w, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
VIGOROUS OFFENSE
OF ALLIES TELLING
The Italians Have Captured the City of Gorizia, Con
sidered the Doorway to Triest
INFLICTED HEAVY CASUALTIES UPON AUSTRIANS
In Galicia the Russians in Quest of Lemberg Have Further
Carried Out Their Endeavors Toward the Capture of
Stanislau From the Austro-Germans In France the
French and British Forces in the Somme Region Have
Attacked and Won Additional Points of Vantage From
the Germans.
The vigorous offensive of the entente
allies on the French, Galician and
Italian fronts is still being rewarded
with important success. In Austria
the Italians have captured the city
it Gorizia. 22 miles northwest of Tri
i t, in Galicia the Russians in quest
of Lcmhcrs have further carried out
their endeavors toward the capture of
Stanislau from the Austro-Germans,
while the French and British forces in
the Somme region have- attacked and
won additional points of vantage from
the Germans.
The capture of Gorizia by the
Italians seemingly is an Important
point ns has been taken since their of
fensive has been pronounced- The
city being the door through which the
Italians may now pass in an endeavor
to carry out their long-cherished idea
of capturing- Triest, Austria's big sea
port at the head of the Adriatic.
In the fall of Garizia, in which Rome
?ays the Austrians were completely
routed, the Italians Inflicted heavy cas
ualties on its defenders, took over 10.
lif) men prisoners and captured con
siderable quantities of war materials.
The Russian General Letchitzky has
driven his wedge farther into the Aus-tro-German
line near Stnnislau. cap
turing eight miles of that Important
ity through which the railroad leads
SELECTION OF COMMISSION
FOR MEXICAN CONFERENCE
Franklin K. Lane and Louis D. Bran
deis Named Third Not Chosen.
Washington, Aug. 9. White House
officials expect, to announce tomorrow
the name of the third man chosen by
President Wilson to serve with Secre
tary Franklin K. Iane of the interior
department and Associate Justice
Bouis D. Brandeis of the supreme
court on the joint commission which
wiil strive for a settlement of border
difficulties between the I'nited States
and the de facto government of Mexi
co. UntiJ the third commissioner has
accepted, formal announcement of the
American personnel of the commission
will be withheld.
Acting Secretary Polk announced the
iccep'anee of The commission plan to
lay after Eli.sco Arredondo, Mexican
jmbas-sador-de:iignate, had given posi
tive assurances that his government
was not able to limit the scope of the
proposed discussion in any way, but
was, on the contrary, in complete ac
cord with the views of the Washington
government in that regard. Although
Secretary Lansing will return from
his vacation tomorrow, Mr. Polk and
Mr. Arredondo probably will complete
the preliminary arrangements for the
commission, determining the time and
place of the meeting after the views of
the commissioners have been obtained.
Under the agreement reached at
these frellminary conferences, the
commission will have power to deal
with any subject related to the border
difficulties -which brought the two
countries to the verge of war.
CHANGED CONDITIONS OF
COD LIVER OIL MARKET
Will Cause Loss of a Million Dollars to
Dealers in Newfoundland.
St. John's, X. F Aug. 9. Newfound
land deulers in cod liver oil estimate
that they 'it face a loss of about a
million dollars as a result of changed
conditions in the market this year.
When Germany last year purchased
the Norwegian output of this product,
the price of Newfoundland oil ran up
from 50 cents to $2.50 a gallon. Ex
pecting big- profits this season, a large
number of persons entered the busi
ness in this colony.
Their hopes were dashed when the
British and French governments suc
ceeded in obtaining this year's Nor
wegian output, forcing a 50 per cent,
cut in market prices. As the dealers
bought the raw material at high cost,
they must stand a heavy loss.
Business interests of the colony also
w:i! suffer from the fact that the cod
fisheries along the Labrador coast and
the northeast seaboard of Newfound
land this year have yielded one of the
smallest catches on record.
ZEPPELIN RAID UPON
ENGLAND AND SCOTLAND.
Three Women and a Child Killed
Total Casualties 23.
London, Aug. 9, 11. S8 a. m. German
airships raided the east coast of Eng
lantl and the southeast corner of Scot
land early today, according to a state
ment issued by the war office. Three
women and a child were killed and 14
persons injured. The text of the state
ment follows:
"A hostile airship crossed the east
coast of England at an. early hour thia
morning. Another airship is reported
to have visited the southeast coast of
Scotland. The raiders did not pene
trate far inland, but dropped a number
of bombs in various localities near the
Boast.
"At several places the airships were
engaged by anti-aircraft guns and
driven off from their objectives. Re
ports received up to ' the present show
Ehat'tlwee "vomeji and one child were
tilled and . 14 persons injured. No
iamage ..of ''-military- importance is re
oprted.' - : -
. to Lemberg to town of Tymatia.
have crossed the right bank of the
Koropice river and captured a numebr
of important positions west of Valesni
oup and southwest along the Niznioff
Monasterzyka railroad, making the
Russian men.
Berlin admits the retirement of the
Austro-Germans behind the Niznioff?
TysmienitsaVOttynia line, but says
that in the Carpathian region heights
held by the Russians near Jablonitsa
and Vorocht and west of Taraov were
captured by the Germans and that
strong Russians attacks in the Delatyn
district were repulsed.
North of the Somme river in France
the Australians have pushed back the
Germans near Pozieres two hundred
yards over a front of six hundred
yards, whila the French also have
driven out the Germans from a trench
recently captured from them north of
the Hem Wood and roccupied it. In
the Verdun sector heavy artillery ac
tivity is in progress at Thiaumont,
Fleury, Vaux, chaptrie and Chenois.
Constantinople reports and Petro
grad admits the Turks have recaptur
ed the towns of Bitlis and Mush in
Turkish Armenia, but Petrograd says
that obstinate fighting is still going on
in that region.
SUSPECTS ARRESTED FOR
BLACK TOM EXPLOSION
Erling Iverson and Axel Larson, Nor
wegians, Taken Into Custody.
Jersey City, N. J., August 9. Erling
Iverson and Axel Larson, Norwegians
were arrested here tonight on suspi
cion of implication in the Black Tom
explosion and the fire on July 30 which
cost seven lives and did damage of
$20,000,000.
Among letters and other papers
found in possession of the prisoners
were drawing of a submarine and
other data. One letter from Iverson
to his mother in London, the police al
lege, described the explosion and his
letter in part ended:
"I expect there will be more for
there are still eighty-six cars of am
munition on the Black Island." Lar
son told the police he was employed
on a Pennsylvania tugboat and work
ed the night of the explosion. Iverson
said he had no employment.
Government investigators are of the
opinion now that the explosion of ben
zol in the railroad yards last Sunday
night, a week after the Black Tom ex
plosion was part of an incendiary plot.
DISTRIBUTING DYES BROUGHT
OVER ON THE DEUTSCHLAND
Will be Supplied to Regular Customers
Some Grades Valued at $70 a lb.
New York, Aug. 9. A circular is
sued here today by a dye-importing
firm quoting prices on dyestuffs
brought to this country by the Ger
man submarine Deutschland shows
that some grades of the product are
valued at $70 a pound. These are the
rarer colors, not yet manufactured in
the United States.
Local dye importers expected to re
ceive their first shipments from the
cargo of the undersea merchantman.
None of these colors would be placed
in the open market, they indicated,
but would be supplied at once to reg
ular customers, largely to meet the
needs of mills.
MADE FLIGHT OF 110
MILES IN 64 MINUTES
Victor Carlstrom Takes Biplane from
Buffalo to Hammondsport. N. Y.
Bath, N. Y., Aug. 9. Operating a
160 horsepower biplane, Victor Carl
strom yesterday afternoon flew from
Buffalo to Hammondsport, a distance
of 110 miles, in an hour and four min
utes. He left Buffalo at 3.30 o'clock
and reached a point over (Hammonds
port at 4.34 o'clock. Because of a high
wind he was eleven minutes in land
ing. He carried a propeller for an ae
roplane now under construction at the
Hammondsport plant for the United
States army.
SWIMMER ENTANGLED
IN WATER LILY STEMS,
Guy Higgins Drowned in Pond Near
Belfast, Me.
Belfast, Me., Aug. 9. (While swim
ming yesterday in Dutton pond, Guy
Higgins c Knox was caugh tender a
macs of water lily steins and drowned,
according to reports received here to
day. The body of Higgins, who was
42 years of age, was found entangled
under the flowers which he was leath
ering near the shore when he lost his
life.
Supreme Officers of Orioles.
Buffalo, N. Y., August 9. Thirteen
of the fourteen supreme officers of
the Fraterjial Order o Orioles were
re-elected at the annual convention,
here today, Including Supreme Presi
dent F. J. Seames of Buffalo, and Su
preme Vice. President Everett C. Rote,
of Reading. J. J. Lyons of Baltimore,
a. supreme trustee resigned-aid was
Cabled Paragraphs
To Close Lutheran Schools.
Melbourne, Australia, Aug. 9, 9.25
a. m. The government of Victoria has
under consideration a proposal to
close all the Lutheran schools in the
state. It is expected that action will
be taken in the near future.
Report That the Bremen. Had Been
Sunk.
London, August 9. The report pub
lished widely in the United States
that the German submarine Eremcn
had been Sunk while on her way tc an
American pert did not appear in the
Berliner Tageblatt, as the despatch in
question stated, but in the Berne,
Switzerland, Tageblatt. This news
paper merely stated it was "probable"
the Bremen had been sunk, owing to
an accident here. Nothing is known of
this report in London, Amsterdam or
The Hague.
NOTHING KNOWN OF
SUBMARINE BREMEN
Which Had Been Expected to Arrive
Momentarily at New London.
New London, Aug. 9. Nothing tan
gible developed here tonight to indi
cate that the German submarine mer
chantman Bremen was expected to
arrive momentarily in New London
harbor, as earlier reported. There
was no confirmation that the Eastern
Forwarding Company to which the
rich cargo of the peoneer Deutschland
of this fleet was consigned had leased
for one year a portion of a local pier
to be used as an American terminal
for a mail and other important car
goes. The only definite circumstances
which pointed to a probability that the
Bremen submarine would end her
trans Atlantic voyage here was the
known presence on Sunday and Mon
day of men who at Baltimore were
identified with the arrival of the Deut
schland. These men, including Cap
tain F. Hinsch of the German steamer
Neckar, interned at Baltimore, are ex
pected to return here tomorrow.
Captain Hinsch accompanied by
Paul Hilken, son of Henry G. Ililken,
associated with the Eastern Forward
ing Company, spent part of Sunday
studying the harbor and its water
front in a motorboat. Then they de
parted from the hotel where they were
stopping here and left no word behind
as to their destination.
During their tour of inspection they
examined the state pier, at the ter
minal of the Central Vermont Railway
and this fact completed with it and
advertisement today by a local con
tracting coTnpany for carpenters to
begin construction on a warhouse on
a portion of the pier tomorrow morn
ing at excessively high wages, led to
reports that this would be the Bre
men's destination.
The contractors refused to say any
thing on the subject. They said, how
ever. th?t it had nothing to do with,
thmi Bremen.
Reports that reached New London
today that the Bremen had been sight
ed but inquiries brought out that the
submarines observed were American
vessels participating in mf.nuevres off
the harbor. The government wireless
station at Fort Wright, on Fisher's Is
land, had heard nothing tonight to in
dicate the approach of the Bremen and
the scores of vessels of many types
which hovered at the harbor's mouth
during the day and long after nightfall
failed to sight the undersea voyager.
Two tugs which patrolled the harbor
entrance were reported to have been
chartered by men apparently expect
ing the Bremen, and persons who
claimed to be in touch with these men
said that the submarine would arrive
here "not tonight but within three or
four days" but refused to disclose
their reason for asserting this.
WINNERS ANNOUNCED
IN OHIO PRIMARY
Herrick and Willis to Oppose Pomer
ene and Cox.
Columbus, O., Aug. 9. Myron T.
Herrick, of Cleveland, ex-ambassador
to France, for United States senator,
and Frank B. Willis, incumbent, for
governor on the republican ticket, and
Atlee Pomerene, incumbent, for sena
tor and ex-Gov. James M. Cox for
governor on the democratic ticket, will
be the rival party standard-bearers in
the Ohio campaign as a result of the
state-wide primaries yesterday. All
four were nominated by majorities so
decisive as to leave no doubt. In ad
dition to the leaders, full state tickets
and candidates for congress in the
various districts were named by both
parties.
An abnormally light vote was cast.
While tabulation of returns was be
ing completed slowly, interest centred
today on the probable result of con
tests for minor state offices, about
which there remained some doubt, and
on nominations for congress in the
22 districts of the state. Election of
ficials said final figures on the vari
ous contests probably would not be
available before tomorrow night.
GREAT BRITAIN IS TO
LOAN PORTUGAL MONEY.
To Cover Expense of War, Says Dr.
Alfonso Costa, Finance Minister.
Lisbon, Aug. 9. Dr. Alfonso Costa,
the Minister of Finance, upon the re
assembling of the Portuguese Con
gress, announced that the British
Government would loan Portgual such
sums as should be mutually agreed
upon between the two countries to
cover the expense of Portugal's part in
the war. The money he said, would be
loaned to Portugal as one of the Allise
of the British Government to be repaid
within two years after the signing of
the treaty of peace.
A note from the British Government
acknowledging Portugal's loyalty to
her ancient friendship and alliances
with Great Britain and inviting her to
take part in the war when she con
sidered herself fully prepared was
read. The British general staff is be
ing consulted concerning the prepara
tions. Schooner Ashore With 150,000 Pounds
of Fish.
Gloucester, Mass., Aug. 9. The
schooner Thomas S. Gordon, with 150,
000 pounds of fish aboard, was ashore
today tliree miles off Race Point, Cape
Cod. A tug was sent- from Boston to
her assictar.ee.
Wallingford Youth Missing.
Wallingford, Aug. 9. The authori
ties today were asked to search fod
Joseph Murton. 20 years old, who dis
appeared from his home here last
Monday. It Is said he was despondent,
and fears are expressed that he may
have ended his life. A number of
oersons searched i the woods in this
Rafeads May
appeal to Wilson
TO USE HIS PERSONAL EFFORTS
TO AVERT STRIKE
IF CONCILIATORS FAIL
The Appeal to the President to be
Made Only as a Last Resort to Save
Nation From Trade Paralysis.
New York, Aug. 9. If the United
States board of mediation and concil
iation which was called in today fails
to adjust the differences between the
railroads of the country and their
400,000 employees, President Wilson
will be asked to use his personal in
fluence to avert a general strike. This
statement was made today by a rep
resentative of the railroad managers
who had been negotiating with the
men since June 1 for a peaceful set
tlement. The appeal to the president
would be the last resort and would be
taken only to save the nation from
the trade paralysis that would follow
a strike of the magnitude planned by
the railroad men.
Reads Propose Federal Mediation.
Late tonight efforts of the federal
mediators to bring the warring fac
tions together were well under way.
Six hours after the railroad managers
had served notice on the men that
they would not withdraw their formal
rejection of the w-orkers' demands and
had proposed federal mediation, the
mediators and the managers were
closeted in recent session. It was sug
gested in lieu of arbitration under the
NewJands' act or by the interstate
commerce commission, proposals which
had been rejected by the brotherhoods
Conference Secret.
What was discussed at the confer
ence could not be divulged by any of
those attending under the mediation
rules, but it was understood that the
railroad represntatives outlined their
position in full and indicated how far
they were willing to go in meeting the
demands of the men. It was reported
that the railroads stood steadfastly fon
the main feature of "uncontent con
tingent proposition" made at the June
conference, which conceded the short
er day, but eliminated double compen
sation for different classes of services
during same work day.
150 PERSONS DROWNED
IN WEST VIRGINIA
A Sunday School Excursion Train
With 300 Aboard Marooned.
Charleston, W. Va., Aug. 9. Ac
cording to officials of the Virginia
Power Company, tonight atoleast 150
persons have lost their lives. Eleven
bodies have been so far recovered.
Many persons have been seen climb
ing to debris in the flood, but no as
sistance could be given them. A Sun
day school excursion train which is
marooned near St. Albans is said to
have 200 persons on board. Efforts to
reach them have failed.
Huntington. W. Va., Aug. 9. Gov
ernor Hatfield, who arrived here to
night to attend the state republican
convention tonight ordered special re
lief trains to the Coal River and Cabin
Creek districts, where according to
reports, more than 100 have been
drowned and 5,000 made homeless.
Two companies of Second Regiment,
West Virginia national guards, have
been ordered with tents to the flooded
districts. So serious is the situation
that Governor Hatfield left the city to
night to go to the scene of devastation.
GERMANY WILL SEIZE
RED CROSS SUPPLIES
Announces That British Course Impels
Reprisals.
Amsterdam, Aug. 9, via London, 1.15
P. m. The Norddeutsehe Allgemeine
Zeitung, of Berlin, publishes a memo
randum issued by the German govern
ment which states that, owing to Brit
ish treatment of Red Cross supplies,
Germany will not longer allow free
passage for such supplies. German
naval forces will receive orders to
take such articles for their own use
when they come within their reach.
The British government has refused
to permit the forwarding of Red Cross
suipplies through the blockade line of
the allies into Germany and Austria.
In a recent memorandum submitted to
the American government, Great Brit
ain said this practice has been for
bidde nin all blockades established in
the past.
ARE NOW FORMING
ENGINEERS' RESERVE
Steps Tawen to Create New Corps
Under National Defence Act of June 3
Washington, Aug. 9. First steps
were taken yesterday by the war de
partment toward formation of a re
serve corps of engineers for the army,
as (provided by the National Defense
act of June 3 last. By direction of
the chief of engineers leters were sent
by Lieutenant Colonel E. Eveleth
Winslow, of the Army Engineer Corps,
to all of the district engineer officers
of the army throughout the country,
laying foundations for the new re
serve corps, which will be composed
of officers to be commissioned from
among the engineers of the counrry
and of an enlisted reserve corps of
engineers.
COFFEE EEAN SACKS
CONTAINED RUBBER
Norwegian Steamer Lygenfjord Tried
to Smuggle Product Into Germany.
London, Aug. 9. A prize court today
will deal with the Norwegian steamer
Lyngenfjcrd, New York for Christ
iania. which carries in its sargo sev
enteen tons of coffee. A search dis
closed that 250 sacks of supposed cof
fee contained a large amount of raw
rubber cleverly concealed, among tha
coffee beans.
$2,500 Fire at Stratford.
Stratford, Conn. , Aug. 10. Fire
starting from an unknown cause de
stroyed two barns, with the contents,
on the Lewis estate, occupied by John
Barke, a milk dealer. The loss Is es
timated at $2,500. The cattle were out
at the patsure. The barns were near
Remington City and. for a.timehe big
blaze, caused, much uneasiness.-':-"
Excitement in
Wheat Market
OVER CROP LOSSES IN UNITED
STATES AND CANADA
AT STRAINING POINT
Trading Closed in a Whirl Showing
Net Gains of 10 to 11 Black
Rust is Spreading in Canada.'
Chicago, Aug. 9. Giant crop loses In
the United States and Canada sent the
wheat market today nearly to the
straining point. Trading closed in a
whirl of excitement showing net ams
of 10 5-8 to 11 3-8 with the September
option at $1.44 1-4 and with December
at $1.48 to $1.48 3-8. Something of
the strain Involved in and on the far
reaching consequences may be realized
from the fact that, according to the
United States government crop report,
which was the principal cause of to
day's excitement, the domestic yield
of. wheat for 1916 will be 368.000,000
bushels smaller than was the case last
year.
Canada's Shortage 136,000,000 Bushels.
Black rust spreading in Canada and
indicating that the crop there would
be cut down 136,000.000 bushels from
former total made the situation more
acute, as the United States and Cana
da have been furnishing six-sevenths
of the world's bread stuff supplies to
the countries that in the face of war
difficulties have still be able to im
port. Jumped Eight Cents Over Night
The biggest jump in prices today
came right at the outset, exactly eight
cents a bushel over night. Strenuous
efforts to buy cleared the market at
times almost completely bare of offer
ings and froced the market higher and
higher until the May delivery tcuchod
$10.53 1-2, a price just 13 1-2 cents
under the topmost level on record in
the violent fluctuations of the first
year of the European war.
Heavy Foreign Buying.
Foreign buying on a huge scale ap
parently had much to do with the ex
treme prices in the hours of today's
session. It was estimated that report
business today totaled 1,500,00-0 bush
els for immediate shipment including
big purchases made of options on fu
ture deliveries.
SERUM TREATMENT
FOR INFANTILE PARALYSIS.
Beneficial Results Are Said to Have
Been Obtained.
New York, Aug. 9. Methods of
serum treatment in cases of infantile
paralysis based on scientific principles
and from which beneficial results have
been obtained were outlined tonight
by Dr. Haven Emerson, city health
commissioner.
One of these methods, the commis
sioner stated, consists in using the
fluid withdrawn by spinal puncture
ana re-in.iect.eu subcutaneously or m-tra-museulariy
into the same patient.
Another method is spinal injections of
blood serum derived from persons who
have recovered from the disease.
The first treatment was described
by the commissioner as one of "active
immunization. '
"This method is based on the as
sumption," he said, "that the spinal
fluid taken from the patient contains
the virus of the disease and that the
virus injected subcutaneously or in-tra-muscularly
will stimulate the pro
duction of anti-bodie.s which will aid
in overcoming the infection."
The bleod serum direved from con
valescents, he pointed out, contains
anti-bodies which also will aid in
overcoming infection.
"Since, it is known that the with
drawal of spinal fluid is in itself fol
lowed by a marked improvement of
those ill with poliomyelitis," the com
missioner added, "a series of patients
have been treated merely by (spinal
puncture withdrawing spinal fluid
without any injection. In a number of
instances this has been followed by
striking improvement, possibly throusii
the relief of excessive intra-spinal
pressure."
SAILORS COMMENDED BY
SECRETARY DANIELS
For Valor Shown at Time of Black
Tom Island Explosion.
Washington, Aug. 9. John J. Phil
lips, master of the navy tug Pentucket,
and the nine men of his crew were
commended by Secretary Daniels today
for their "excellent work and unhesi
tating exposure to danger following
the great explosion at New York," July
30.
"It appears," 'Secretary Daniels said,
"that the men on the Pentucket, in
charge of Tug-master Phillips, proceed
ed to Ellis Island and with hose from
the pilot house and the main deck
fought the tire on one of the exploding
ammunition barges. Some of the ex
ploding shells embedded themselves in
the tug. Seaman S. Wandle, while
handling the nozzle on top of the pilot
house,- was severely injured by being
struck in the stomach by an exploding
shell. They succeeded in placing at
least one ammunition lighter where it
could do no further damage."
The men of the crew are F. L.
Knight and T. A. Heatton, machinists'
mates; T. de Mors and T. M. Hutch
inson, firemen; J. L. Wheeler, S. Wan
dle and R. W. Wandle, seamen, and 'C.
S. Nobel, ordinary seaman.
AIR BATTLE 9,000
FEET OVER THE SEA
Italian Aeroplane, Shot Down by Aus
trian Over Gulf of Trieste.
Berlin, Aug. 9, by wireless to Say
ville. The destruction of an Italian
battle aeroplane by an Austrian na
val aviator, Lieut. Eenfield, in an ae
roal engagement nearly 9,000 feet over
the Gulf of Trieste, is reported in an
Austro-Hungarian Admiralty state
ment today, which says:
"Naval Lieut. Benfield, on August
16, shot down a large Italian battle
aeroplane after a protracted aerial en
gagement 2,700 metres above the Gulf
of Trieste. The aeroplane fell near
Sistiana and was burned. Of the oc
cupants, one lieutenant was killed, a
non-commissioned officer was badly
wounded, and another slightly wound
ed. "This is the fourth aeroplane de-Stroyed-yby-Ieut.Benfield
Condensed Telegrams
Gold shipments from Canada now
total $201,446,000.
Germany has prohibited the impor
tation of raw tobacco.
Fourteen porters of the Now York
Stock Exchange, went on strike.
Percy A. Rockefeller was elected a
director of the National City Bank.
Fire destroyed three oil tanks of the
Gulf Pipe Line Co., near El Vista, Tex.
Major Hugh White Adams, of
Yonkers, N. Y., a civil war veteran, is
dead.
Japan's naval plans provide for six
battle cruisers and eight super-dread-naughts
by 1923.
Two thousands soldiers have been
sent to fight a great fire in a forest
near Savonia, Italy.
Leila May and Ina Marion Briggs
were drowned while bathing in the
Westfield River, at Westfield, Mass.
Twenty-eight persons were killed in
Petrograd during the disorders which
tok place there on July 30.
The exports of merchandise in the
port of New York for the week ended
Aug. 5 were valued at $56,445,769.
J. P. Morgan & Co., have deposited
in the Assay Office an additional $2,
00,000 gold received from Canada.
Tom McCormick, former welter
weight champion of Great Britain, was
killed in action at the French front.
James W. Reilly, private secretary
to Democratic National Committeeman
Norman E. Mack, of Buffalo, is dead.
President Wilson accepted the res
ignation of Judge Thomas D. Stewart
of the First Judicial Circuit of Ha
waii. Rev. Dr. Daniel Bliss founder and
president emeritus of the Syrian
Protestant College, at Beirut, Syria, is
dead.
Dr. John Price Durbin John, of
Green Castle, Ind., widely known
Methodist educator and lecturer, is
dead.
Reports to the State Department of
Health at Trenton, N. J., brought the
total of infantile paralysis cases in the
State to 1,014.
Gen. David McMutrie Gregg, of
Reading, Pr., one of the last of the
Union general at the battle of Get
tysburg, died.
Peter Lekus is held at Bridgeport,
for the Federal authorities charged
with entering this country in violation
of the immigration laws.
Poemier Asquith announced in Com
mons that a bill extending the life of
the present session of Parliament will
be introduced on Monday.
Two hundred members of the Pitts
burgh Military Training Association
left Pittsburgh for the military train
ing camp at Plattsburg, N. Y.
The British steamship Birdowald
from Catellamare for Baltimore has
been detained at Gibraltar on account
of her machinery becoming deranged.
President Wilson signed a bill pro
viding further funds for use of the
public health service in fighting the
growing epidemic of infantile paraly
sis. A personal letter from President
Wilson to the Kaiser, on conditions in
Poland, was delivered to Foreign Sec
retary Von Jagow by Ambassador Ge
rard. All the ships of the Atlantic fleet
except the tender .Yankton sailed from
Newport, R. I., for the manoevres to
be held off the southern New England
coast.
Col. Roosevelt cordially approved
the proposed woman suffrage amend
ment in a letter to Chairman Alice
Carpenter, of the New York Hughes'
Alliance.
Sixty-five thousands gallons of
naptha in cans was scattered by an
explosion in the hold of the steamship
Hortensius at pier 38, Erie Basin,
Brooklyn.
Representative Bennett, of New
York was applauded in the House
when he declared he favored using the
United States navy to break the Brit
ish blacklist.
Two more officers of the U. S. Pub
lic Health Service were sent from
Washington to New York to aid in the
fight to prevent the interstate spread
of infantile paralysis.
James Gerrigan, one-time racing
partner of John Dehymel. was killed
near San Antonio, Texas, while speed
ing his machine up a hill to have his
picture taken in action.
Frank Cooper, thirty-six years old
an engineer, of 156 Clinton St.. New
Haven, was run over and killed by
the Boston express of the New York,
New Haven & Hartford Railroad at
Baychester, The Bronx.
Preliminary steps were taken by
the War Department for organization
i of the engineering section of the of-
army authorized i nthc National De
fense Act, which became effective July
1.
MEASURES TO BUILD UP
ITALIAN MERCHANT MARINE
Ships Bought Abroad Exempted from
Taxation for Three Years.
Rome, Tuesday, Aug. 8, 5 p. m., via
Paris, Aug. 9, 1 35 a, m. The minis
try today-adopted the following meas
ures designed to affect the building
up of the National Merchant marine
and relieve shippers from the burdens
of high freight rates:
Ships bought abroad by Italian cit
izens or companies within the next
two years will be exempt from taxa
tion for a period of three years; ships
built in Italy during the same period
will be exempt from taxation for four
years, the materials for such ships
will be permitted to enter free of
duty, and subsidies will be paid of $115
per ton on the hull and $20 on ma
chinery. Ships built under the provisions of
the act will be liable, however, to re
quisition by the government for one
year, and such shins must also re
main under Italian registration for
five years.
HUGHES REPLIES TO SECY REDFIELD
About E. Dana Durand Being Forced Out of Office as
Director of the Census
MAKES PUBLIC LETTER
Durand Writes That His Resignation Was a Distinctively
Forced Resignation Republican Nominee Repeated His
Detroit Statement That an Eminent Scientist in the Coast
and Geodetic Survey Had Been Displaced by "an Ex
cellent Stock Breeder and Veterinary Surgeon" Closed
His Speech in Minneapolis by Saying We Must Have
Higher Standards Than Those of This Administration.
Minneapolis, Minn., Aug. 9. Charles
E. Hughes, replying to Secretary Red
field's telegram denying that E. Dana
Durand was forced out of office as
director of the census, today read to
a large audience here a letter from
Mr. Durand in which Mr. Durand said
that he had told Redfield he would
resign but wanted to remain, and that
Redfield replied that the administra
tion had decided on a change?.
Mr. Durand's letter, read by the
nominee in the course of an open air
speech in the parade grounds here,
was in part as follows:
Mr. Durand's Letter.
"Inasmuch as the truth of your
statement with regard to the change
in this directorship of the census has
been challenged, I think it is only fail
to you that I should make this state
ment. My resignation as director was
distinctly a forced resignation. At
the first conversation I had with Sec
retary Redfield, I told him that I
would resign, but that I hoped I would
be permitted to remain. He at once
told me that the administration had
decided that it wanted to make a
change. I believe 'to create a vacan
cy' w ere his words. Next that I heard
of it was an announcement of the
successor had been announced and
then I wrote out my resignation."
Mr. Hughes then repeated his De
troit declaration with reference to the
displacement of "an eminent scien
tist" in the coast and geodetic survey
by "an excellent stock breeder and
vetinerary surgeon."
"Exception also has been taken by
the distinguished secretary with re
gard to that man," the nominee con
tinued. "Now I am not in a position
to state of rny own knowledge of the
circumstance with reference to the
retirement of the eminent scientist
who occupied that important place.
But if I may assume that he retired
voluntarily my point is not so much
the retirement plan, but the character
of the man by whom he was suc
ceeded. "I am now told that Mr. Jones, who
succeeded him was promoted after
being deputy commission of fisheries.
But he was appointed to that place,
also involving the need of technical
skill and training, by this adminis
tration. He went there from his stock
farm and took charge of the bureaji."
Went Into Details.
Mr. Hughes went into detail as to
the charge he made in Detroit that
the administration had made "a raid
upon the civil service of the United
States," and concluded as follows:
"We must have higher standards
than those of this administration. The
INCREASE IN POPULATION
BY IMMIGRATION 169,061
In'.'ux Lower Than It Had Been in
Eighteen Years.
Washington, Aug. 9. Increase in
population by immigration amounted
o only 169,061 during the fiscal year
of 1916. Statistics announced today
by the immcgration bureau show the
influx of aliens was lower than it had
been in IS years.
Aliens arriving in the United States
for the vear which ended June 30 num
bered :!66,T4S, of whom 29S.S26 were
immigrants and 67,922 non-immigrants.
Aliens departing numbered 240.S07, of
whom 129,703 were immigrants leaving
without intention of returning and 111,
042 non-immigrants who intend to
come back to this country in time.
A BILL TO CREATE A
BUREAU OF LABOR SAFETY
Favorably Reported in Senate by Com
mittee on Education and Labor.
Washington, Aug. 9. A bill to cre
ate a bureau of labor safety in the
department of labor was reported fa
vorably today by the senate commit
too nn duration and labor. The pro-
i posed bureau would investigate and
report on labor satety plans ana ae
vices of all kinds, except those relating
to railway operation, which a commit
tee amendment provides should be left
to the interstate commerce commis
sion. VILLA BANDITS ATTACKED
A PASSENGER TRAIN.
Were Repulsed by an Escort of Gov
ernment Troops.
Chihuahua City, Mex., Aug. 9. Villa
bandits yesterday attacked a passen
ger train on the Torreon and Durango
railroad at !Noria, it was learned to
day. They were repulsed by an escort
of government troops on the train. In
the fight General. Aguilar of General
Francisco Murgia's staff was killed.
The fcandits. numbering about 20,
scattered to the foothills.
ALMOST INSTANTLY KILLED
BY AN AUTOMOBILE.,
David Bridge, a Farmer, Was Struck
Near Greenwich.
Greenwich. Conn., Aug. 9. David
Bridge, 50 years old, a farmer, was al
most instantly killed today when he
was struck by an automobile owned
and driven by John W. Carl of Sound
Beach. Bridge's skull was fractured
and he died while on the way to the
hospital. Carl was arrested, charged
with manslaughter. The accident oc
curred on Toll Gate hill. Bridge leaves
his wife and four children.
FROM DEPOSED
administration, with loud professions
of devotion to civil service reform, has
not been true to the standards of the
administration which I believe the
American people desire to see en
forced." Immediately after his speech here
Mr. Hushes motored back to St. Paul,
where his program called for the de
livery of an address later.
ATTACKS ADMINISTRATION FOR "
ITS PREPAREDNESS POLICY.
Hughes Declared It is Inadequate in
Address at St. Paul Last Night.
St. Paul, Minn., Aug. 9. 'Charles 03.,
Hughes, speaking tonight in the Au
ditorium here, assailed the administra-i
tion for its preparedness policy, which;
he declared inadequate, asserting that
he regarded "reasonable preparedness'
as a primary duty," and purposed if
elected "to see that it is discharged to
the credit of the American people."
"We are a spirited people," Mr.,
Hughes declared. "We are a people'
that can protect ourselves. We are '
not too proud to fight." .
Much of the nominee's address was
devoted to the Mexican situation and
the calling of the national guard to
service on the border. There had been
warnings for two years that America
should be prepared, Mr. 'Hughes said,'
yet when the time came to put an'
army on the border "to do police eer-i
vice," there was presented "a spectacle
showing inefficiency of the first magni
tude." The administration's embargo on
arms to Mexico was criticized as "fast
and loose no policy."
"I' don't think it a rash statement,;
the nominee stated. ''I think it is war
ranted by the facts, to say that anyi
American soldier killed in Mexico isi
killed by American bullets that we
have let go over the border." i
Mr. Hughes referred to a recent ad
dress to the senate by Senator Lewis
of Illinois. "He didn't like some state
ments of mine." the nominee said.'
"They discharged him. I am glad of it.,
That was the intention, but there'
wasn't a word in which I said that he'
or anybody else could -answer." The'
punitive expedition "to Mexico, Mr.
Hughes said, was only called punitive.
"The only punishment inflicted was
punishment indicted on ourselves," he
eaid. "We punished nobody else." '
A large portion of the nominee's ad-1
dress was devoted to reiteration of his
views on the need for industrial co
operation and preparing for commer
cial competition by Europe after the
war.
ARMY BILL HAS BEEN
PERFECTED BY CONGRESS
Navy Bill Alone Now Remains to
Complete Defense Measures.
Washington, Aug. 9. Congress car
ried national defence legislation an
other step forward today by finally,
perfecting the army bill. Only per-'
fection of the navy bill now remains'
for completion of the program behind,
which President Wilson has put the;
full force of the administration to de- i
feat, attempts at reductions. I
Although the senate conferees Der- :
mitted the house to reduce the total!
appropriation of the army bill some
forty-six millions from the senate
figures, it carries eighty-five millions
more than it did as the house origin
ally passed it and totals $267,597,000.
Its final passage was without evi
dence of disagreement within the dem
ocratic lines.
Tuesday the naval bill was called up
and the house will be asked to agree ;
to the senate amendments, principal i
among which are the big building pro- ;
gram. President Wilson has told the:
house leaders he considers adoption ofi
the big program essential and the ad-j
ministration expects it to go through. I
RUSH OF REGISTRATION
FOR PLATTSBURG CAMP.'
Total Up to Noon Yesterday Wai;
Nearly 800.
Plattsburg, N. Y., Aug. 9. The rush
of registration lor the August camp of
military instruction began today when
ever 200 men lined up in front of the
adjutant general's office to make their
deposits and be assigned to regiments
and companies. These, together with
the 400 from the July camp who re
mained for another tour of duty,
brought the total registrations up to
noon nearly 800.
Colonel Peter Murray, camp com
mander, has arranged for two regi
ments and a separate battalion for the
new camp. These will be known as the
Eighth, Ninth and Tenth training reg
iments, Major Goodalo commanding,
the Eighth, Major Stewart the Ninth
and Major Roberts the Tenth.y
. i
OBITUARY.
Robert Grau.
Mount Vernon, N. Y., Aug. 9. Robert
Grau, formerly a theatrical and con
cert manager and one of the best
known figures in'dramatio. and musical
circles years ago, died-yesterday at his
home her eof heart disease. He con
ducted the tours of some of the most
famous concert stars, including Ade
line Patti, for whom he was manager
for many years. He was the author of
several books dealing with art and the
drama, and was a brother of the late
Maurice Grau, formerly manager of the
Metropolitan opera house.
I
f '
i ;
! 4
1 1
1
J
v
