2 -
Generally fT^tfnTght^ tomorrow; ^ ^ ^ ^ . a^ frfi j?gg? '? Wome
^t'wrnV00" tonUM; "f1 north mai 3 1*F W^ lllfl Within the Hoar"
Temperature for twenty-four houra I l^UI ..
ending 2 p.m.: Highest. 2:30 p.m. V I A ^F mm V Af f^B I 1 C5?
yesterday; lowest. (8. at 6 a.m. today. M M a a . ^ s I M . H. .A. J I _ M M ^
Full on pagje 15. ^^F ^kF'^W^FS^r ~ ~ ' *
' A J I y I I . J / sworn !fe? Circulation. Month of July.
CXOSIWG HEW Top STOCKS PAGE IB. w V- * 1,1 * Hotly Accra**. TKSSSi Suatay. BOJSTO.
20,406. WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1916. -EIGHTEEN PAGES. "~ ONE GENT.
? ? ? :?? 1 r? ; ? ? /
HUGE TOLL OF LIFE
ISTAKENBYFLOOD
IN WESTV1RGINIA
More Than 100 Persons Believed
Drowned, With $2,000,000
Property Loss.
5,000 OF THE SURVIVORS
PROBABLY ARE HOMELESS
State Militia and Belief Parties
Forcing Their Way to Stricken
Mining Camps. 1
ENTIRE VILLAGES WIPED OUT ?
Flood. Due to Cloudburst, Gave Lit- 1
tie Warning to Those Living in
Its Path?Railroad Commu- 1
nication Destroyed. j
CHARLESTON, W. Va., Au- '*
crust 10.?Twenty-three bodies (
- have been recovered from the i
debris carried down by the flood J
"hich swept the Cabin creek
valley, near here, yesterday. '
Rescue parties have penetrated ,
cue distance above Cabin i
I reek Junction, and meager re
<>rts brought back by couriers
and from the railroads indicate e
r
hat the loss of life has been ,
heavy, although no accurate esti- 1
mate can be made; Belief is ex-^ C
pressed that more than 100 are c
C-ad. Persons driven from their >
i nies to the mountains are re- !i
- "tiing to find whole villages of *
rning cabins swept away, while *
Iress and suffering is seen on J
vv hand. i
Militia Sent to Rescue. J
, \.o companies of the 2d West Vlr- j
Infantry left Camp Kanawha by 1
alley this morning and were taken 1
: a Cabin Creek Junction, with orders
to penetrate the valley and extend re>
"f te all who needed it. They carried
provisions and tents. '
.i o|>w4?i u*tu i* ucnm uiaue up nere
i\i the Chesapeake and Ohio railroad
;?d will go aa far as the hastily reI
red tracks will permit. From that
>:nt numbers of men provided with
ovisibns will seek out the spots
.\l.ere destitution is most pronounced.
: expected that they will be able to
O the entire length of the valley and
; ;.ctrate adjoining valleys, also hard
. before tomorrow.
Keports reached here today from
'.ward C. Smith. United States commoner.
who led a relief party for a
. nber of mining companies last night,
at looting had commenced and a
anber of arrests had beenr made and
te property recovered.
Soldiers to Preserve Order.
t The commander of the military has
:n ordered to detail men to guard
operty and restore order, leaving
e greater part of the relief work to
?- many parties which will be in the
alley before afternoon.
So great has been the loss that coal
sinpanien with mines in the valley
climate that many thousands of dolIars
will be needed to feed and clothe
the helpless miners and their families,
as scores of them have lost all their
possessions.
Thb flood, due to a cloudburst, resulted
in a property loss of at least JjJ.OOO,<M?0.
Because of the topography of the
country state authorities here expressed
the belief that It would be several
days before the full extent of the flood
could be ascertained.
Villages Wiped Out.
\t least eight villages and mining
settlements in the district were either
v. holly or partly destroyed, while many
others felt, the effects of the storm more
or less. Those practically destroyed or
;?v damaged were Acme, Honda.'
I?r> Branch. Miami. Sharon. Dawes,
I,'ay ford and Kskdale. Between Acnfe
and Kay ford sixty persons are reported
to have been drowned.
? l*ocal officials of the Chesapeake and
Ohio railroad today declared that it
would be at least two weeks before
travel could be resumed in the Cabin
. ?'r*ek valley. They also said that the <
i ompany'n yards at Kayford had been 1
destroyed and will have to be rebuilt.
Reports stated that portion* of the 1
track of the Virginian railroad, be- 1
tu-en Robson and Deepwater, had beer. 1
w;?-'"ed out and that service on the <
' r* '1 had been temporarily suspended. j
Probably 5.000 Homeless,
'iv cloudburst o'" urred at the headf
'' r s of Pai'lt and Cabin creeks
and Coal river, arid the torrent which I
suiged do* n Coal river swept its banks |
slr.iost clean of villages, while the
Kanawha river raised several feet. carrying
on its crest houses and buildings
of all kinds. The Cabin Creek valley
has a population of about 15,000. Advices
receiver here indicate about one-third of
this number are probably homeless.
More thaji thirty houses were counted
passing one point in Cabin creek. Many
cf the houses crashed Into the piers of
the Chesapeake and Ohio railroad
bridge, which earlier had been washed
out. and were demolished. A boy was
seen on top of one of the houses. An
effort to rescue him failed, and he disappcajed
in the water. A. large bridge
oii ?lie line of the Charleston JnterU"'
an Pall road Company was washed
I way near Cabin Creek Junction.
Into svnth n received at the office of
th*? mineral superintendent of the
<"ii ?"|Kake and Ohio here indicated
that conditions on Coal river were little
if any 1 etter than those on Cabin creek.
Indite-t communication from Madison
indicated great property damage but
no lose of ltfg there. A local freight
** train on the "Coal river division of the
Chesapeake and Ohio was washed away,
including three bos cara of merchan(Continued
on Fourth Page.)
MEDIATION MAKES
UTTLEHEADWA'
Railroad Brotherhoods Insis
on Full Demands, and Concede
Nothing.
BOTH SIDES CONFER
WITH FEDERAL BOARI
Employes Believed to Prefer to Mi
diate Bather Than Submit to
Arbitration.
NEW "it)RK, August 10,-Th
United States board of mediatio
ind conciliation held its fir:
:onference today with repr<
sentatives of the four railroa
brotherhoods of employes in ei
forts to prevent, through media
tion, a country-wide strike to er
force the employes' demands fc
in eight-hour basic day and tim
ind a half for overtime.
Nothing officially was disclosed as f
he success the mediators met. It ws
earned on good authority that the brotl
irhoods had shown no disposition to mo<!
fy their demands.
"The status is unchanged," was tfc
>nly comment which A. B. Garretsoi
lead of the conductors' brotherhood, wa
willing to make after the conference ac
iourned.
Only a Beginning Made.
"We have only scratched the surface,
laid G. W. W. Hanger, one of the thrc
nembers of the mediation board. "Th
ituation may be cleared up within twer
y-four hours, and then negotiations ma
viiuiiuc iui a wccn.
The mediators arranged for a secon
onference with the railroad manage]
his afternoon and to meet the brothei
loods' representatives again tomorro
norning. Today's meeting with the me
vas held in a downtown assembly ha
md was attended not only by the chiel
>f the four brotherhoods?the employe;
official spokesmen?but by the 6?0l deli
rates of the unions yrho are here. ]
asted less than an hour. Outsiders wei
>arred.
It was assumed that the mediator
is was the case at their first confei
?nce, yesterday, with the railroa
nanagers. sought to learn from tl
nen how far they were willing to g
n making concessions, which woul
>ring both sides to common ground a
i basis of settlement.
Brotherhood Unyielding.
The brotherhood -chiefs told theo
lowever, It was learned, that they wei
still firm for their demands as origins
y presented to the railroads. Whl
expressing their appreciation of the el
'orts of the mediators, it was said the
nformed them that they saw littl
hance reaching a satisfactory ad
ustment.
The mediators, however, it was sail
lid not contemplate that the men woul
titer concessions at today's meeting
dost of the meeting watf devoted ti
dr. Garretson to a detailed explana
ion of the brotherhood's demand
lpon which he made it clear, it wa
inderstood that they stood firm.
The mediators held their first cor
'erence with the national conferent
:ommittee of railway managers yestei
lay. Judge Chambers said afterwai
hat the railroad managers told ti
nediation board how far they were pr?
..j ?/, in on allamnt
itrike, and that the managers ma<3
;heir side of the argument plain. Thet
leliberations are secret.
i Three Possible Results.
There are three possible results of tli
mediation. One is that the feders
aoard will be able to get the managei
md workers to sign an agreement. Ar
>ther is that the mediators will be abl
to induce both parties to consent 1
irbitration. if mediation fails. The thii
>ossibility is that the federal board wi
fail in both these endeavors.
It wai predicted today that If *tl
>oard should be unable to compose tl
lifferences. President Wilson woul
Lsk representatives of the contendin
factions to meet him in Washingto
md that he would ask them to arb
irate their differences. The mediatoi
mnounced that no statement would I
forthcoming from them until they e
ther have succeeded or failed.
It is understood that the labor leat
?rs pin their hopes of settling the dii
>ute upon mediation rather than arb
ration, now that the managers ha\
'ailed to agree with them. They ai
>pposed to arbitration.
W. S. Carter, president of the Brotl
srhood of Hallway Englnemen ar
Firemen, said:
"Arbitration is a gambling game, eve
arhen-the dice are not loaded. Railws
ftmployes have lost faith in the Justii
>f arbitration boards. They believe a:
titration is as fickle as chance.
"If there is arbitration of this elgh
hour demand and every effort is ma<
to' appoint neutrals entirely free fro
prejudices, it is but tossing pennies i
Jecide the question. Why has no or
suggested that the matter be setth
t>y 'pulling straws' an<k relieve ever;
body of the bother?"*
RAILWAY WORKERS
TURN TO PRESIDEN
An appeal from the 80 per cent i
railroad employe* in the United State
aa distinguished from the other 2? p.
cent united in four big brotherhooi
and numbering approximately 100.0
who have just taken a atrike vote,
to be made tomorrow direct to Pres
dent Wtlaon.
Thle appeal haa been organlxed 1
Kobert T. Frailer, an employe- in tl
engineering department of the Nasi
vllle. Chattanooga and St. la>ula ral
way, who raid today that he la to pr
aent his case to President Wilson t
morrow, when he will be Introduced I
Senator Shields or Represent*!!
Byron of Tennessee.
These men outside of the four b
brotherhood* now concerned In tl
threatened strike, he ssys, want leg!
latlon that will provide that such,
calamitous thing as s monster rallroi
strike Interfering with Interstate coi
(Continued on Beoond Page)
FALSE STANDARD
f OF MINT
it Used by Representative Ben
Johnson to Calculate Comparative
Tax Burdens
of Cities.
D OUR TAX BURDEN
ALREADY TOO GREAT
5
The Johnson Fluctuating Yardstick
Which, Measuring Falsely. Indicts
the Washingtonian as
e Only Half-Taxed.
n
No. L
Editorial Correspondence of The Star.
d BY THEODORE W. NOYES.
What Representative Ben Johnson says
Lr In advocacy of the repeal of the half-andhalf
law is entitled to special consideration.
His words have the influence and
>r carrying power that attach in the House
g to the chairmanship of the District committee.
Thfs year's repealing rider is in
essentials the Johnson amendment of last
to year. Thus his proposition of last year?
LS then rejected?is now resurrected and revitalized.
And thus, also, Mr. Johnson's
arguments of last year?then unsuccess
iui?are now renewed ana aDiy conaenseu
ie in his speech (May 23, 1916) on the District
appropriation bill.
The weight which attaches to Mr. Johnt
son's words causes any inaccuracies in his
basic facta and any fallacies in hia reasoning
to inflict special injury and injustice
upon the National Capital. What
l( inaccuracies of fact and flaws in reasoning,
then, does analysis of Mr. Johnson's
>e speech disclose? If there are any they
must, in fairness to the District, be
promptly corrected, and Mr. Johnson himi
self, if he can be convinced that he has
y been misled, will undoubtedly be disposed
to make this correction.
d Indictment of Undertaxation.
8 The flrat vital Inane la respect to
which Representative Johnson and the
w
n capital community differ Is as to Wash11
ington*s comparative tax burden.
He says that Way hi a {ft on is the llghtf_
est taxed of American cities, and that
[t It bears only about one-half the avert
age tax burden. We say that Washlngs
ton Is one of the heaviest taxed in the
i - list of comparable American cities, and
id that Its peculiar conditions and dlsie
abilities render Its tax burden harder
r?
Id to bear than that of any other comis
parable American city.
Both Mr. Johnson and Washington
one census figures to Justify their conclusions,
but not the same census figa,
urea. The census authorities disertmi-e
nate between the two sets of figures,
. and approve, those which we use aad
discredit those used by Mr. Johnson as
le unverified guesswork. ,
f. Different standards of measurement
of comparative tax burdens are em!y
ployed to reach these contradictory conic
elusions.
|- Wc compare the total tax burdens In
dollars and cents actually paid in taxes,
the aggregate tax levies or tax reel.
celpts. in respect to_cities most closely
Id approximating Washington in populag.
tion and environment and wc compare
y the per capita contributions of the rel
spec five cities to the total tax levies
s, nnd tax receipts in respect to all comls
parable cities whether much larger or
smaller thaa Washington,
i- Mr. Johnson takes as his standard of
ie measurement comparative tax rates,
r- modified by the application to them of
'd the reported relation of assessed to true
ie valuation. Thus Washington** tax rate
i- Is fil.50 on a reported two-thirds as
<* wwinrni, unirn nanre naanin^onTi
le nominal rate on true value 91*00. Raise
tlmore's tax rate In 10IS wa? 1.701 and
Ita reported assessment wan full value,
or 100 per cent, with the result that its
tax rate to compare with W ashiugtun**
was 1.701 under this misleading standie
ard of measurement; and so with the
il other cities that are compared with
*K arhln^f <m.
The factor In this standard of measures!.eat
which iaUiticn it and renders
le It worthless la In the rcportrd relation
;o of assessed to true value. Theae fe.
ports are not made by census officials
or verified by them. They are the
11 guesswork estimates of irresponsible
municipal officials, who do not tell the
truth about them and who do not pretend
to tell the truth about them,
te Reported full or 100 per cent assessld
ment valuations are found to vary In
different cities from 23 per cent "to 85
* per cent of full value. The standard of
measurement applied to these cities
i- which involves this fluctuating; factor
varies correspondingly, and becomes
absolutely worthless on this account to
?e grlvc accurate results in comparing;
i-j cities. It lacks the vital essential of
uniformity.
Mr. Johnsons' yardstick of measure1*
ment contracts nnd expands while in
s- use. The facts and figure* brought be1
fore the joint committee show that this
kind of yardstick Is over thirty-six
re Inches In length In measuring; Washington's
tax burden, Is approximately
i- thirty-six inches In length In measured
ing the tax burdens of a very few other
cities, and In the mass of American
sn cities varies from twelve Inches to
Ly thirty Inches in length.
-t What accuracy can be expected from
r- ?he use of a standard of measurement
which. instead of being uniform,
t* shrinks from one-half to one-quarter
le of Its nominal length In Ita application
m to some cities and Is not to n certainty
to of precisely the same length In any two
dtiesf The preposterous results we'd
cured by the application of this standV
ard of measurement to comparative
cltv tax hardens are Inevitable, and redace
to an absurdity the claims of this
standard of measurement to any reliability
whatsoever.
]" False and True Standards of Tax
Burden Measurement.
The tax rate, modified by application of
the census' reported relation of assessed
*" to true value, furnishes, according to Mr.
Br Johnson, the true standard of measuring
ls comparative tax burdens. A table of forty
a# selected American cities, compared by
is tax rates, thus modified, shows WashingI
ton with the smallest rate of all, about
one-half of the general average of rate
of these forty cities And yet." sayB Mr.
>y Johnson, "after a showing of that kind,
which places Washlngto as the least
. taxed of them all. there come those
k* here today and defend Washington's
1- millionaires from paying tax oil tlielr
_ wealth."
Front the very beginning Washington
" has avoided the error into which Mr
by Johnson has fallen of treating the tax
... rate as an accurate standard of measurement
of comparative municipal tax
burdens. The census authorities early
Ig declared for the per capita tax Instead
lie of the per capita rate'as the propel
s- standard of measurement. Census Com.
mlaetoner Wright, in his preface to th?
d bulletin concerning citlee of 18?0. says
? In comparing the rates of taxation be_
tween the several places It should bt
borne mind that the relation of tht
.... .. i , ...
/
/
! :
] assessed valuation to the true valuation
varies: greatly, and what is apparently a
high Vate of taxation may be owing not
to an excessive levy, but to the low value
placed upon the property assessed, requiring
the rate to be correspondingly
high in order to yield the desired revenue.
Jt would seem, therefore, that the taxation
per capita repreaentn more nearly
the relative burden* imposed by the tax
levy.*
Mr. Johnson's table, using the tax rates
in forty cities as standards qf measuring
comparative tax burdens, after
the rates have been modified by the application
to them of the reported relation
of assessed to true value, was vigorously
attacked in the argument for
Washington before the Joint congressional
committee, and that committee decided
in favor of the per capita tax^and
against the per capita rate* modified
or unmodified, as the accurate standard
of measuring the comparative tax burdens
of cities.
The committee used as its own standard
of measuring comparative tax burdens
the per capita total property taxes
in the respective cities.
A False Standard of Measurement.
The method of measuring the comparative
tax burdens of cities which acj
cepts as accurate the census-reported
i relations of assessed to true value,
and on this assumption declares that
the Washingtonlan's tax burden is
much lighter than that of the residents
of the average American city, is
based on a false premise and leads to
a fals" conclusion.
(1) It is discredited as unreliable by
the census authorities themselves.
It is true that some figures of this
table appear in the census bulletins
I themselves under the head of "averI
age rate of general property tax for
'city purposes?per $1,000 of estimated
j true valuation." While trie, census
i authorities print for wnat they are
worth these estimates they also print
explanatory statements which show the
unreliability of the figures as a standard
of measuring comparative tax burdens.
In addition to the actual figures of
tax ratewissessment and tax levies^ the
census or recent years has, it is" explained,
collected the opinions and estimates
of municipal officials as to the
relation of assessed to true value. Particular
attention Is called at the census
bureau to the fact that these ratios of
assessed to true valuation represent nothing
more than the beliefs or gue?se* of
local municipal official*.
They are not verified by any independent
inquiries by the census agents,
but n'-e merely recorded and published
for what* they are worth, with a warning
to the reader not to place too much
reliance upon them. They are not,
therefore, in the same category with
the statistics relating to assessments,
rax levies, receipts from the several
. forms of taxation, expenditures, inI
debtedness, etc.. all of which are exact
figures, obtained from municipal, records
by trained census agents, who
make annual visits to 111 cities of over
30,000 inhabitants for the purpose of
collecting these data. The compilations
made from them are carefully checked
and verified, and arefgiven to the public
as trustwonny siaiiBuw, i:uuicLimuj5 no
element of guesswork. The distinction
between these statistics and the estimated
ratios of assessed to true valu!
ation should, therefore, be kept constantly
in mind.
The census authorities knew that
these reports of the relation of assessed
to true value were very generally inaccurate
and misleading, and that false
conclusions would often be derived
from them. And the census authorities
said so, warning against reliance upon
these mrures
j Census Bulletin 126 (1913) says:
"Reported basis of assessment in
practice?For most citie^ the figures
shown in the table as the reported basis
of assessment in practice are cstiI
/..rniohof] hv local officials of H?a
Imaico IUI ...... -- - ? __
percentage which the assessed valuation
of property subject to the general
property tax In those cities forms of its
- true value. For certain of the cities of
Minnesota, Washington and Wisconsin
the figures given were obtained from
the state tax commissions and represent
approximately the proportion that
the assessed valuation bears to the selling
value, having been determined by a
1 critical investigation involving a comparison
between the assessed valua;
tions of property sold and the considerations
received at such sales. The
figures for both real and personal property
for most cities outside of these
three states are far from correct, although
those for some cities are more
accurate than for others,' and those for
real property are more trustworthy
; than those for personal.
"Tax rates?The rates of levy given
i for the general property tax are those
I per $1,000 of assessed valuation and per
$1,004 of reported true value. The
. rates hascd em the reported tree valee
i are sehjeet to all the errors la the ea:
tlmates to which attention was called
. In the preceding paragraph."
i Shall we disregard the real measure
> of tax burdens, the total and per capita
S ^
V^Nsue^EME Or
I tax levy, commended as accurate by the
| census authorities, and apply to the tax
i rate this confessedly grossly misleadi
intr fantrtr of mlrulfltinn? Thp rf??lllt I
I will he worthless as a measure of comi
paratlve tax burdens.
Confessions erf Inaccuracy.
! (2) The census bulletins thus discredit
\ the accuracy of the reported relations
j of assessed to true value except in
j three states. Minnesota is one of the
states commended for comparative accuracy
of the statement of the relation
of the assessment to the true value.
In 1912 the Minnesota tax commission
said:
"Ever since Minnesota became a state
we have had a law among1 our statutes
requiring that 'all property shall be assessed
at its true and full value in
money/ Never since the first assessor
started on his thankless task has property
of any kind in Minnesota been assessed
at its 'true and full value,' or,
j with few exceptions, has any serious
! attempt ever been made to so assess it.
i The uniform, universal custom has been
to assess at from 25 to 50 per cent of
i actual value: and this custom has had
j the long-continued approval of the peoi
pie, the silent support of the law-makIing.
and, in large measure, the acquiescence
of the law-enforcing departments
( of the state governments."
| As in Minnesota, so in many other
J states, whose tax officers are not so
: frank, nominal 100 per cent valuation
i means only from 25 to 50 per cent, and
nominal valuations less than 100 per
cent turn out in most cftses to be in
practice about one-half of the reported
valuation.
The fact that in a Washington asI
sessment a nominal 66% per cent means
j an actual 70 per cent, while in most'
other cities a nominal 100 per cent
'means an actual 50 per/cent, and a
' nominal 50 per cent means an actual 25
i per cent, explains ^he amazing discrep!
ancles which confront us when Wash!
ington's realty assessment is compared
| with that of larger and richer cities.
The figures of comparative tax burden 1
; resulting froin use of this standard of I
; measurement are shown to he mislead- j
ing and worthless, not only by the een- !
j r.um author I fir* in dinraMiiis the basis '
I on which thror flsnrrN rent and by the
admissions of tax officials in states and
I cities, bat by the groteaque resalts
j which follow acceptance of the accuracy
of the reports of the relation of
J assessed to trae value and the attempt
j to use this false reported relation as a/
factor In measuring: comparative tax
j burdens.
Fantastic Discrepancies.
j (3) Assuming that the reported bases
j of assessment are accurate, the as|
sessor reports In the taxed fraction of
j non-industrial Washington realty val|
ues amounting to $508,798,485. On the
I same assumption the Cincinnati as.
sessor reports in the whole of that
( populous, wealthy and money-making
city realty values of $375,065,680?$133,000,000
less than in the taxed fraction
of Washington. The Newark assessor
reports $207,000,000 less of realty values
in that city than in Washington.
The New Orleans assessor reports
$285,000,000 less of realty values in
that city than In Washington.
Of course, the reports of relation of
j assessed to true value which develop
these preposterous results are false
and worthless. Instead of Washington
j rqalty being assessed at a two-thirds
rate, as compared with a three-quarters
valuation in New Orleans and full
valuation in Cincinnati and Newark,
the true relation will place Washington
at a comparative 100 per cent and
the other cities at small fractions of
full valuation.
The truth which I am urging is
taught not merely by a few selected
cities, but by the entire list.
#<4) Finally the census figures used
In Mr. Johnson's table are not the latest
available and vary in their showing
from the most recent census bulletin
on the subject?No. 126 for 1913.
th? standard itself is thorousrh
ly unreliable and misleading in both
year?, this difference la of no consequence.
No more attention should be
paid to these guesswork Irresponsible
figures of 1913 than to those of the
year (whatever it was) which Mr.
Johnson utilized.
But the most superficial examination'
of these 1913 figures, purporting to
show comparative tax rates based on
reported true value, discloses that
Washington is not the only American
I city to be slurred as undertaxed by the
application of this false standard. Mr.
Johnson's table gives that Impression;
but if we enlarge somewhat Mr. Johnson's
table of forty selected cities and
use *he figures of 1913 we find that
while Washington's tax rate on reported
real value remains 1.00, Chicago's
Is only 1.02; St. Paul's Is 1.08; that of
Indianapolis Is less than that of Washington?.95,
and afiong other citlen
less than Washington ars; Seattle, .90
Portland. Ore.. M; Atlanta, .75; Btr
%
fp'.
i
*
mingham, .50; Memphis, .04, and Spokane.
.75.
The Johnson standard of measurement
thus demonstrates that Chicago
and St. Paul, like Washington, are ,
only half taxed compared vith other
American cities; that certain cities,
from the Pacific coast to the gulf, are
less taxed than Washington, and that
Birmingham, for example, bears only ,
one-half and Atlanta three-fourths of
Washington's tax burden.
This freak standard of measurement
if fairly applied plays no favorites, but is
consistently fantastic and absurd in its
results.
The eesmw authorities declare Mr.
Johnson's figures to he unreliable. The
tax officials In states and eltlea confess
this unreliability. The practical
results of assuming that his figures
?*e accurate and true reduces to au
absurdity this assumption. This false
standard does not unjustly slur Washington
alone, bat Chicago, Indianapolis
and other comparable American cities.
In calculating the actual tax burden
the assessment alone Is of no value,
the tax rate alone is of no value, and
the application to the tax rate of the
unreliable reported relations of assessed
to true value to measure comparative
fax burdens gives results that
are confessedly erroneous.
The only reliable standards of measuring
the tax burdens of the various
cities are the tax levies or total tax receipts.
the dollars actually raised by
taxation, and the per capita tax levy
or per capita tax rocelpts which distribute
the total tax burden among the
persons constituting the taxed community.
The demonstration of the figures Is
that the reports from the cities of
the relation of assessed to true value
are so inaccurate and tainted with error
that fantastically fitlsleadlng results
follow any attempt to apply these
false reports to modify the actual tax
burdens.
The table of figures relied on by Mr.
Johnson in the House debate to demonstrate
the comparative lightness of
the Washingtonian's tax burden is rendered
valueless by the use of and reliance
upon this discredited and misleading
factor in its calculations.
Christy Would Oust Directorate.
CHICAGO. August 10.?H. A. Christy,
former chairman of the board of directors
of .the American Shipbuilding
Company, who resigned last November
after a disagreement with associates concerning
the management of the company,
has issued a statement asking
the stockholders to meet in Chicago ?to
organize a new directorate. The American
Shipbuilding Company operates a
number of shipyards on the great lakes,
and has $30,000,000 of stock outstanding.
Much Spice Goes Dp in Smoke.
PHILADELPHIA, August 10.?A spectacular
Are today destroyed the building
of the Clawson Company, spice importers,
here and spread to the Dr.
Jayne building adjoining. Other properties
were also damaged. The loss is
estimated at $200,00.
DAY IN C0NGEESS.
Senate:
Met a?t noon.
Senator Stone denounce!! publication
of Danish West Indies
treaty in defiance of President's
requcot iui Bcuicuy.
Removal from office of former !
Director of Census Durand de- 1
bated by senators.
Republican conference declines <
to accept democratic legislative ,
program with view to early adjournment.
Debate resumed on government
shipping bill. <
House: 1
Not in session: meets Friday.
i
DISTRICT IK CONGRESS.
' Senates
The conferees on the, District '
appropriation bill met to begin 1
.consideration of that measure. I
A House bill was passed exempting
express companies which
report to the Interstate commerce .
commission from the necessity of
reporting tcf the District public i
utilities comiulssien. j
- x
uiSiv-. Z, .
BREACH OF FAITH
ON DANISH TREATY
/
Senator Stone Demands Inquiry
Into Premature Publication
of Text.
COPIES SENT THE SENATE
UNDER SEAL OF SECRECY
Foreign Relations Chairman Insists
Making It Public Was Dishonorable
Act.
Investigation of the m ans by
which a confidential copy of the
treaty under which the United
States would acquire the Danish !
West Indies for $25,000,000 became
public was demanded in the 1
Senate today by Senator Stone,
chairman of the foreign relations
committee.
An abstract of the treaty published
this morning: is believed to have been
made from one of twenty-flve numbered
copies sent to the Senate Tuesday by
the State Department, -with a letter
transmitting a request of the Danish
government that the terms of the convention
be withheld until the two governments
agreed to promulgate them.
The department's communication
reached the Senate, in executive session,
Tuesday, and was referred to the
foreign relations committee. The treaty
probably will be considered by the
committee early next week, and the administration
is confident that it will be
ratified before the end of this session of
Congress.
Holds Culprit to Scorn.
Senator Stone announced that he.
would bring the matter officially before
the* Senate for action at the first ex- (
ecutive session, which may be held later
today.
"It is hard for me to believe,** said
Senator Stone, "that any senator of the
I7nit#?d StntAR won 1H o-iv* thin fmatv tn
the public under the circumstances.
Every senator has a right to a copy
and to go to the executive clerk and
get it. If any senator did he dcnows
where it. has gone. But if he exposed it
to the public he did a dishonorable act
and ought to be disciplined by jtha
Senate.
"A senator who would so utterly die- .
regard the rules of the Senate aiid defy
the request of the President of the United
States deserves the scorn of the Seqafcp."
Senator Stone further declared that he
thought that the body of correspondents
in the Senate press gallery would not resort
to dishonorable methods in the acquisition
of news.
Correspondents Not Criticised..
"I have no criticism of the correspondents,"
he continued, "but when a great
newspaper comes into possession of a
confidential communication of this kind
sent by the President of the United States
to the Senate and prints it to the detriment
of the public interest it Is an entirely
different matter. Every senator
and every patriotic American can have
but one opinion of such action."
The senator emphasized the importance
of secrecy because of the iact
that a similar treaty with Denmark ;
was interfered with 'and ratification ]
prevented several years ago.
"We know," he said, "that a similar
treaty was negotiated with Denmark :
some years ago, and it has been cur- ;
rently reported as an open secret that
a foreign government used its influ- *
ence to prevent its ratification in Den- i
mark. Whether that was the reason
the President and the government of
Denmark asked that this treaty be '
held in confidence I do not know, but i
I do know that when two sovereignties <
make a request like that the Senate
ought to adhere strictly to the' rule of
confidence." >
Committee Copies Sealed.
Explaining publication of the treaty <
in a Washington and a New York news- i
paper today. Senator Stone said that *
the twenty-five printed copies of the *
treaty sent tb the foreign relations ?
committee still were sealed today and 1
none of them could have reached the 1
eyes of the newspaper correspondents, j
"I have just communicated with the
Secretary of State," continued Senator
Stone, and he has informed me that
of the ten copies sent that department,
one is held by him for his own use and
the other nine are locked in the vaults
of the department."
The present case. Senator Borah of
Idaho said, illustrated the inadvisability
of considering: all treaties in secret.
"This dealing: with treaties in
executive session is wholly fruitless,"
said Senator Borah. "Execi^Uye sessions
have become a relic of antiquity
and should be dispensed with. There
is scarcely any treaty that should not
be considered in the open."
Criticising the Nlcaraguan treaty,
Senator Borah said if the American
people had known all of the circumstances
it would never have been made.
"It would have been a credit to dignity,
even honor, if its details had
been known before it was ratified," he
said. *
The Danish treaty, Senator Borah
continued, is a "real estate deal."
Senate Is Expected to Act
Speedily on Danish Treaty
Ceding West Indian Islands
The treaty between this country and
Denmark by which Denmark cedes the
Danish West Indies to the United 8
States for a consideration of $25,000,000
was sent to the Senate Tuesday and
was referred to the foreign relations
committee. A prompt favorable report 0
Is expeciea irum injii commuiH, ?
The treaty was signed by Secretary "
Lansing o( the State Department and r
Constantin Brun. the Danish minister. 1
in New York August 4. Under the 1
agreement proposed with Denmark it 1
is understood that the United States f
will have no objection to that country's Jj
extending its political and economic In.
tereats to the whole of Greenland. v
The Danish government has request. 11
ed that the text of the treaty be not c
made public until sucktime as the r
governments of the two cbuntrles shall b
agree to promulgate its terms. b
Payment for the Islands, c
The fact that $25,000,000 la the coti- p
tlderatlon to be paid by the United 1
States leaked ont some time ago, how. }
(Continued on Second Fa#e.) Ji
ITALIANS PURSUE
ENEMY WITH VIGOR
MCIIIIW TWCCTr
ITILIinumU I lllLu IL
About 32,000 Prisoners Taken
jn Operations of the Past
Few Days.
ROMPS FORCES GAINING
IN SAN MICKELE SECTION
Successes Registered Also Fear Saa
Martino?Boschini Is
Occupied.
STORY OF GORIZIA FIGHT
Conflict Raging in Isonzo Regions
Has Been Marked by
Sanguinary Character.
LONDON, August 10.?News
from the Isonzo front indicates
that the arrtly of the Duke of
Aosta is rapidly following up the
notable success won by the
Italians in the capture of the
Austrian stronghold of Gorizia.
It was announced the Duke of
Aosta was accompanied by King
Victor Emmanuel when he entered
the city.
Italian troops are reported in
force over the Isonzo, vigorously
pursuing the retreating
Austrians, whose big seaport of
Trieste, twenty-two miles to the
southeast, is threatened.
The Italians fiave pierced the
strong Austrian entrenchments
northeast of San Michele ami
near the village of San Martino.
They have occupied Boschini.
The statement, says that more
than 12,000 Austrians have been
captured in these operations.
About 20,000 prisoners were
captured by the Italians at Gorizia,
according to an official announcement
by the war office.
The statement says an accurate
estimate is impossible at present
as numbers of prisoners are being
brought in hourly.
City Not Destroyed.
*
Notwithstanding the desperate fighting
around Gorizia, the city itself was not
burned by the Austrians or destroyed by
the Italian artillery fire, nor were the inhabitants
injured, these, to the number of
20,000, having previously evacuated the
city. It was the desire of Gen. Cadorna to
save Gorizia from destruction by the retreating
Austrians, and to that end he
employed strategy. After taking the
mountain tops of San Michele and Sabotino
he attacked Gorizia not only from the
front across the Isonzo, but also from the
sides and rear. When the Duke of Aosta.
commander of the third army, who was
present during the three days of fighting.
entered the city arter iorcing tne oriage
across the river, at the head of cavalry
and cycle corps, Gorizia was found to be
leserted save by great numbers of wounded
and dying Austrians on the outskirts.
The duke was accompanied by his cousin,
the king. The only damage done by the
A.ustrians was that occasioned by their
attempts to destroy military buildings
ailed with large quantities of supplies.
QoriziA Operations.
The operations which led up to the
capture of Gorizia by the Italians are
lescribed in the following official narrative
given out in Rome:
"The attack began on August 4 in
he Monfalcone section, against hills
(5 and 131, east of Rocca. We stormed
i very powerful enemy works there,
aking 143 prisoners, but the adversary
had placed in abandoned trenches
luantities of bombs, which exploded, \
jiving off clouds of poisonous gases
lust as our troops entered the capured
lines. Heavy masse* of the en my
then made counter' attacks and?
>ur troops, stupefied or asphyxiated
>y the gas, were forced to fall back
o their own trenches.
"On August 5 the artillery sounded
he enemy's whole front with the obect
of distracting his attention and
Ixing the ranges accurately. On the
norning of August 6 our batteries /
>pened fire simultaneously on the
ocky barrier which from Sabottnb to
?avario defends the Isonzo and Gorizia
o the west and against Monte San
dichele, which forms the northern
dge of the Gorizian Carso. The arillery
action of this day. long and
:arefully worked out. represented a
?erfect example ,of concentrated fir#
igainst fortified lines.
Enemy Positions Marked Off.
"Thanks to our aviators and to tha
.bservatlons of battery officers, the
lositlons of the enemy had all been
narked off clearly on target maps and
anges for the extension and lengthenng
of lire had been calculated with
he greatest nicety. Thus at the anointed
time a veritable tempest of
(hells* fell in a wholly unexpected
nanner on the positions of the enemy,
emollshing everything systematically. '
"Infantry columns then advanced
irith customary dash, well supported
,y a curtain of Are of our artillery, and
arrted the entire formidable Sabotino
ampart, the point whieh forms the
ase of the Gorjzta bridgehead. On the
eights, which cover the city to the
rest, they stormed the defenses of
islavia and of the summit of Hill :o?,
rhich command Oraffenburg. on the
lain they drove in a defensive line beween
the southern border of Podgora
nd the Isonse- They also attacked oa
he right bank of the river as far as at
itidrea. On the southern border of the
. .. -r
