V -2 -Y-yTf-
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudy to-day and to-morrow;
to-morrow warmer ; moderate winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 85; lowest, 69.
Detailed weather, malt and murine reports on page. 10.
IT . SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 345.
NEW YORK,- THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the Sun 1'rtnting and VuWhlng Association.
ONE CENT
In flrealee New Ynrk. t
Elseithers
Jersey Cltj and Newark, 1 TWO CENTS,
HUGHES GALLS
FOR EFFICIENCY
IN GOVERNMENT
He Quotes Duraml Letter
Charging Jiis'Kesigna
tion Was Forced.''
KEDFIKLD SOUGHT
TO CREATE VACANCY
Letter 3Iule Public to Col'
. rect Secretary's Wire
Attacking Candidate.
TWIN CITY CROWDS
CHEER G. 0. P. CHIEF
Throngs Along Line De
mand Addresses and
Shake Hands.
Sr. Paul, Minn., Aug. 9. All Minne
ota seemed to be out to greet Charles
E. Hughes to-day. A crowd on the
platform of the first station at which
bis train stopped after crosssing the
Wisconsin line Insisted he leave the
breakfast table tind make a speech,
nd thereupon he broke his rule
(gainst rear platform speaking on the
present trip.
In this city and Minneapolis, where
the only two advertised mc:tlngs were
held, the crowds were reenforced by
Urge delegations from many other
points In the State. Progressives
were conspicuous In the vvlsttlng pur
lies wn.cn nucntieu nn iiuorm.u re- he ..Wnn, c , we do?- Mk g.t
eeptlon at the Hotel St. 1 'mil this a thing we can store up against a pos
morning and usuured him of enthu-, 'h,r,nf.!' ..T"", .n'.. b
slastlc support. Parade through
fayly decorated streets lined with
eheerlng thousands wero features of
the demonstration In the Twin Cities.
Darand 'arnUheaKajcJs.
Mr. Hughes apoears to have come out
tictor In the first Itsue of fact rau-igt
ty either nominee hi the present cam'
palxn. In one of hi speeches. In De
troit Monday night he accused the Wil
son Administration of having retired II.
Dana Durand, then dlre or of the cen
sus, to make room for i Southern Dem
ocratic politician. Secrettiy of com
merce IldfIeH. after reading the ad
dress, wired to Mr. HubIipk that he
had been 'Vjravely misinformed," Du-
rand having retired voluntarily
Mr Durand Is now a orofewor !n the
I'nlvrri-lty of Mlntieota and liven In
Minneapolis. Mr. Hughes ie.-olved n
Inter from him to-d.iy In which the
former census director said tho charge
ma!c by the nominee was absolutely
truiv . .,..
"My resignation was distinctly a
s forced resignation," he wrote, adding
Mr It.?Jn!d In talking to hlrn of his
rosl'lon cahl' "The Administration lr-
i.rtH to rente it vacancy ther." Mr. I Kralth bviMrtmrnt aud Milk Corn
Hughes r-at this letter to a crowd of, . . ' ., ..
10.000 persons who attended the after- " Accused at Hearing.
noon T.ee' nj on the pnradf. grounds in Utica. N. Y An?. 9. Collusion be
Minneapolis, following the Reading with tween the New York City Health De
the declaration "If I am elected .-Presl-, partment ' and the large milk convanles
"lent I propose to have administrative , 1(j tha detriment of the farmer was
pos.iions uncu ny men or special train-1
tag:
Itrpeats Janes Charge.
At Detroit also Mr. HiMhe referred
Ifl the retirement of O. II. TlUman. as
chief (,f the Ccjast and tleodetlc fJur-
ev, and the sulwtltutlon of Dr. K.
ter Jonee. whom Mr. Hughes described as ,
an excellent stock raiser and veterinary i
sursenn,"
K. K, Sweet, acting Secretary of Com
merre, atsuered by saying Jrnes had
bn e(.ate,I to this place from the
eh! rt.tlticy of the Bureau of Fisheries.
Mr. Hughes repeated to-day the as
sertion that Jonea was a stock raiser
snd stiii it was the Democrats who took
him from the Mock farm to the fisheries
bureau.
"Now the trouble Is." he gild, "that
I disagree with the Ftnndards of com
petency which are considered sufficient
)' the Administration."
"AmerlCT ririelent" was the keynote
ef the Minneapolis addresfl. At every
meeting which he has addressed so far
on his tour this theme has struck the '
m.-,t reeK.nnlvi chord" In the audiences.
Ilefervnrre to th Secretary of the Navv !
lmsrl.il,ly bring smiles from the crowds
"nil Mr Hughes's criticisms of the Ad-1
rrtr't.r-. i i
ir.tnlMr.itlon for
"I'l'uuiuuK MH?xMri" ,
'men and Incompetent men, to dlplo'
.iiic positions never fall to rouse
ehetrn,
1'lcnd for Americanism,
In '. spceih nt th Auditorium to
r'sht Mr Hughes said In part!
"I nin n itrong party man. I believe
In I'.'irlV nriFllltlx.if Inn nu uri euuenllnl
fPeiirv nf r,.tllll,l(.n .1 ni'A.nmAit litif I
i i.eneve in party organisation as tn i
servant of a deinnerHtln tieonle. ami I
tn,tn .'is the representative of u jitirty In
ord-r ih.i through that essential Instru
nifntaiity I iimy nr nil the men and
f t'le t'n. ted States.
'We have pome from many lands.
Here in (he v rthwest we know that
Amrir'i.iym .ti ' si, ' " i.i. ' ...
.""I of the flesh. Wherever n n,..n Is
iii ;r . wiiii. ui ti.rj aiiii ii an ii
"I desire lr. L. n ,..nf,.u,M,nt nt
the Ainein at, sentiment In that con-i
M'iwsnt f unity which displaces nil '
possibility of division, We must have ,
tmt mner feeling of Intense loynlty.
"hat i, t'tep. divide us? Wo Hr.) ' I
UniKd people ntul only through that i
lo'inminl si ns.i nf unity and of loyalty
ran we Ket the f rie and motive power
'h.ili vii make us an efficient nation '
Jf"dy i nip,, with tho probleins of the I
Viii, H (emury I
'"Phere wns no eveusn for tieriulltlnir
Jr tegular army to remain at so low a
joint that it ,-ould not perform military
y. without summoning men unpre
tared fr such from the length and
Continued on Third Pag:
"rn. if he is naturalized American 1,(1 T T.' .. 'S,J ,S
r"l"n of the Pp,l states, he I. here ; 'reef ionkers. '" fMj
"r.iy an American citizen with Amer- ' '""' he brl''fv:'S TrM VI,
ideals wtth American hopes, ready 'ho "'"TJrL nshore
to if ie in. .....i .ii. .1.. ..i.. ..i Ilrady got his charge asnorc,
YOUNG BELMONT WILL
MARRY VIRGINIA GIRL
Wives Dinner nnd Theatre
Party to Mtos Caroline
Hurlbert.
Itaymond Belmont, who u healed of
the scars of his first matrimonial 'adven
tf re May In the divorce court, where
Ms chorus girl bride, Ethel Lorraine, won
her freedom and R gonerou . alimony
ficm him. Is engaged again, this tittle to
' Virginia beauty, who knows nothing of
Hrosdway and has no affiliation with the
stage. She Is Caroline Hurlbert. from
Mlddleburg. Va. Belmont first .met her
ut the wedding of his brother. Martin.' In
August last year. Miss Hurlbert was
hrldcamild to Marjorle Andrews.
Hhe la registered now at the Hotel
Vanderbtlt with her mother. Mrs. 'O. J.
Hurlbert. Young Uelmont has taken a
suite In the same hotel. Last' nlgh't he
cave a dinner and theatre party to hla
fiancee and her mother.
Next week? Belmont Is to go to the
Plattsburg training Vimp for a month's
course. U Is expected that hit bride to
be and her mother will take a cottage
on Uiko Champlaln to be near him un
til the announcement of their engage
ment. The formal publication will be
made In September,
FARMERS' THREAT
WORRIES MILKMEN
Preparing1 to Make Demands
for Higher Prices, Hnlsey
Is Informed.
Benjamin 8. Hnlsey of the Sheffield
r'nrms-Sluwson-Dccker Milk Company
looked worried yesterday when asked
If there was likely to be a ehutdown by
up-State dairymen on the milk supply
for New York city, lie. Insisted, how
ever, that he knew little about If except
what lie hud "seen In the papers." Later
he admitted up-State superintendents of
hla ompany had reported .that the
farmer were preparing to take drastic
methods If the dealers didn't Increase
their prices,
-ic iivl uuiiiK ail) iiiiiiK ltviu i .11.
trouble till after the half-yearly schedule
of prices Is posted In October anyhjw.
"The farmers say that yw price, of
everything they use has gone up. Well.
c nro paying more for everything too.
Peed for our horses, harness, every
thing costs more and m)re all the time.
It Is all a part of the rice In tho cost of
living, and I don t know where It will
end. But If we are compelled to pay
,ore ,han our average of three and
three-quarters cents a quart for milk
the consumer will have to pay, more.
It cin't be helped."
Mr. Halsey said there was small hope
of other cities bi log able to ship much
mill; to New York In the event of a
strike of dairymen, though he hoped I
the supply would be greater In October
than now, as there is a shortage at
present.
We re shipping milk to uoston now,
te said. "There Is little chance that
they could spare us any. During the
producers' strike In Chicago we sent
irllk there. They might ship us some.
We would always try to see that the
hospitals didn't suffer, and we give
customers with babies the preference."
COLLUSION IS ALLEGED.
charged by a witness before tho legisla
tive committee Investigating the question
of farm products ut a meeting it Oneida
to-day. . .
The teatlmony .howed that the Farm
ers Cooperative Association had suffered
annoance at the ha nils of the depart
ment and comnanles only after It had
declined to renew a milk supply con-
trart.
One milk station a-jont, after an un
comfortable half hour of cross question
ing, admitted tils company shipped
skimmed milk to New York.
SHARK IN LITTLE NECK BAY.
1BO Pounder (.'aught by Hotel Man
Hntklng Htnpprd.
A shark, measuring eight and a half
feet and weighing 150 pounds, was
caught In Little Neck Hay yesterday by
James Powers, a hotel proprietor, and
Iloderlck Watson of Hayslde. Tha two
men went flshlnir for the shark after they
had heard that suveral had been seen
playing In the bay.
They used a strong rope, took a large
hook und baited It with bacon. Oolng
out In a launch thy tossed the baited
. . ... i. , , v. I . .
hook ovi'ruuaiii nun wiiiimi id, iii.iiu.va
got ft "strike.
When Col. Jlaan, commander of Fort
Totten, heard of the shark he notified
residents on the fort reservation to re
frain from going In bathing In the bay
for several days,
HIGH BRIDGE LEAPER RESCUED
ssnrrs "n.r t
Mulclilal 21 2 Feet Jump,
James Brady of 300 East 136th street
a watchman for the Interborough llapld
I Transit Company, was seated on. a pier,
head beneath High Bridge, ovir the Har
im Hlver. yesterday afternoon, when, a
hodv utruck the watr near Ulin. Strip.
wtnp
- .. . . . ,
Ping off his coal uno snoes. ns.ieape.1 .11
Hmlth suffered no greater Injury than
two broken ribs. He was removed to
Lebanon Hospital, where he l under nr
I rest under it charge of attempting -to
commit suicide.
NAMED AFTER 36 YEARS.
lnn Who Han far Sheriff Win at
Primaries.
jBrKKiiso.v City, Mo Aug. 9. After
thlrty-rlx years bb a candidate for one
oir.ee, J, Worten Keys was nominated
for Sheriff by the Democrats of Hallne
county In the primary lust week.
He has been a candidate for Hherlff
at each election since 1110 and failed
to win until this year. Keys la
farmer and atoca ralsar,
SCHOOLS STAY SHUT
OWING TO EPIDEMIC
Opening, Indefinitely Delayed
.andProbably Until Af
. . .tor October 1.
DEATHS' AT HIGH RECORD
Day's Total Is 57, With 183
New Cases Warning
Against Catskills.
The public .schools will not be opened
September II, as scheduled, because ot
tho Infantile , paralysis epidemic. The
date for ending the summer vacation
has not been set, but It probably will not
be before October 1.
The action 'concerning the schools was
taken at a meeting of tho medical art.
lory board of 'the Health Department,
at which were present William a. Will
cox, .president 'of the Board of Educa
tion, -and a number of physicians who
have been fighting the epidemic. It was
the unanimous opinion of all present
that It -would be Inadvisable to bring
children together In the schools while
the' disease Is i' prevalent as It Is now.
Yesterday brought the greatest num
ber of deaths from Infantile paralysis
In 'the present epidemic, fifty-seven, and
this (f act 'doubtless strengthened the ed
ucators and physicians in their stand.
Will Await an Abatemcal.
.The exact dale of the opening ot
the' schools' Is to be determined after
further conferences of Commissioner
Kmerson with, the Mayor's Committee
on Infantile Paralysis. The date will
be fixed at a time when the epidemic
Is abated and the danger to the school
children Is at a minimum. President
Willcox also asked that It be left In
definite, In order to give him the op
portunity to get In touch with his su
perintendents and settle the executive
problems connected with the postpone
ment. Mr. Willcox after leaving the
conference presided over a meeting of
the Board of Education, where a reso
lution was adopted empowering him to
fix a date for the opening based on the
recommendation tof the Department of
Health, whlph leaves the matter In the
hands ot the department.
.Faroefclal SeHoola Also.
The Rev. Josefrh Hnilrh. who is super
intendent of 'parochial schools In Man
hattan. The Bronx and Yonkers, si Id
last night that the Institutions under
Catholic patronage would follow what
ever action Is taken by the public
schools. "
"I have not talked with the Health
Commissioner," said Father Hmlth, "be
cause I havw been out af toTvti. To-mor
row morning I will get In touch with 1
him. Whatever regulations he sots for
ine.puDiic eenoois win tie compiled wnn
gladly by us."
None of the heads of Manhattans
private schools was In town yesterday.
Teachers employed In these schools said
that If the school opening Is deferred
by order of the Health Commissioner In
struction probably will be given In camps
or In temporary schools out of town.
The situation at some of the health
'(nrl. t II K t ,K nannL ,...1.
tilth Ihele hll.lp.n i, ,k. k.inlnnln. t
th. enlrleml,. In Hour Kerl.,n. a II
Is in the city, and the danger Is a
reat. Health CommUnloner lnersnn
tsterdoy Issued a naming against go
ing to the Catskills. The warning was
bssed on the request of the State De
partment of Health for assistance In
checking the flow of city people to re
sorts In Sullivan and Ulster counties,
which are already overcrowded.
Y)e
susje Health, Department, lie says, con
siders It'a serious danger to permit any
others from. going to Fallshurg. Liberty.
Hbrleyvllle and Ellenvllle In the Cats
kills, an the boarding houses and ho
tels are already so crowded as to be con
sidered a eerloua menace to' the health
of the refugees.
Federal Embargo Asked.
The State Health Department ha also
asked the Federal officials to warn ap
plicants for health certificates against
going to this section of the Catskills
and to refuse to Issue certificates to
those who go by way of New Jersey
rauroaas, wmcn in interstate iramc.
Local boards of supervisors in Ulster
a,nd Sullivan countlei have been asked
to provide temporary Isolation hospitals
for. the many casts of Infantile paralysis
Which have already developed there.
The Heilth. Department or Nev York
,hht,air;;,
VVT;L withmit urniiee r.!il..nt. Thi
..!... i , ..a .... ,h. .i...
children possibly infantile paralysis
v,.. in '""" " "li '"I""
eaifes, have hi en brought Into the city
lurreptltlously.
Dr. Herman M. Iliggs, State Commis
sioner of Health, yesterday sent out a
circular letter to all hotel owners and
boarding house proprietors calling at- csmmltteo took of Its call to the media
tentlon to the provision of the sanitary t0 Hm, refu,al , Brnnt utrls, ,,.
code ;""ljrln" .ihefT t0.. 7pi2rt ? ,fne I men's demands. The committee did not
local health authority all facts relating . inlen,i t0 convey to anybody that It had
to persons presumably affected with a made a positive and final refusal to K
communicable disease. This regulation, 1 1,,. ), said. It slmnlv believed nn ml.
he stated, would be rigidly enforced as
a means of controlling the spread of
Infantile paralyals and particularly
among the refugees from tho city.
Many .ew Cases In The llruox.
The 'death roll of flfty-eeven reiwrtcd
to the Hoard of Health yesterd.iv ex
ceeds the previous high record of August
t by two. There were nrty-two deaths
from tne disease on the day previous.
There were reported to the department
183 new, cases, which was tho same
number given In the report of the dy
before. .The total number of cases In
the five boroughs Is now 6,852. Tho In
creases In "deaths were In Queens and
In hospitals.
There wHs a marked Increase In the
number of new cssca In The llronx noted
In the report, while new cases In .Man
hattan were on tho decrease, and In
Urooklyn stutlonary. The disease in
Richmond seems to have run Its course,
as there was only one new case und no
death reported yesterday. Total deaths
to date have been 1,351,
Commissioner Emerson's comment on
the day's repl of the epidemic was '"Not
encouraging."
Another difficulty encountered In the
rXht against the epidemic Is that many
enscs arc hidden by tcrn'rant parents,
many of'whom do not speak English and
have no comprehension of the effort
that are being made to protect and save
their children. There Is a belief among
some of these parents that If their chll-
., ( . , .
, CgfttfMsrf f eurl Pug;
MEDIATION STARTS
IN RAILWAY DISPUTE
Chances of Averting Strike
Brighten as Federal Hoard
Takes Up Task.
UNIONS FOR QUICK WORK
Government Agents Called In
at Request of Roads' Con
ference Committee.
Chances that the big railroad strike
will be averted looked better yester
day than at any time, when mediation
got under way. The four rullwny
men's unions accepted the offer of tho
Federal Board of Mediation and Cn
dilation nfter the committee o! the
roads had asked the board to mediate.
Late In the afternoon the three
members of the board. Chairman Mar
tin A. Knapp, Judge W. L. Chambers
and O. W. W. Hanger, met the nine
teen railroad managers who compose
the National Conference Committee
of the railroads at the Manhattan
Hotel to hear their side of the eight
hour day question. The mediators
would make no statement as to whut
was done.
I'robably this morning the mediators
will hear the side of the four biother
hoods presented by A. II. Uarretson, W,
S. Stone, W. (J. l.co and W. S. Carter,
brad." of the conductors', engineers',
trainmen's and firemen's union.
To llrow t p Agreement.
Without telling either side what tne
'other ha stated as Its 'Million, the me
diators will then try themselves to draw
an agreement, which both "111 s&n. Sev-
eral talks with each side may l,e neces-,
sary, and perhaps a meeting uf both
sides with the mediators.
If that falls
they will try to persuade both iddwt to
consent to arbitration by a i-otnmlmlon
of elx, under the Now lands act. The
unions do not favor arbitration. If the
refuse It the situation wilt le the same
as It was yesterday before mediation be
gan, and the only hope of ircvcnttiig
the strike will be a backdown by either
side or 'Intervention by I'resldeni Wil
son, lie ban no lejal power, und can
only exert pressure.
The beginning of mediation wn
brought about at a meeting yesterday
morning of the railroad committee and
the union leadora at the Engineering So
cieties Building. Ellsha Lee. chairman
of the railroad committee, told the union
leader that after talking over thflr de
mand and the announced vote of 94 per
cent, of the 100.000 members to strike If
they were not granted, midlatlon was the
only way out. The demand would mean
too many chansps In railroad operation
he Fad t0 1)c ffttrl ,y ro:,Us and men
without the assistance of the Federal
i,,inrrf
I.ee Heads Statement,
Mr. Lee then read a statement saying
the railroad' committee wlnhed to do
what It could to avert a strike. Tin
men's demands, however, "involve such
extraordlnu
ods aili) S
' IHhed baKC
mediation
, stnrement
eral mediators to step In.
"Wo must decline to Join In asking the
mediators to step In." said Mr. Oarret-
...in iiiltfttmnn tnr- (Wa i.i.I. .1 '1a ti'ml
at tlila time that the manacerh can meet
us a little more than half way. Df course
you can can in ine meaiaiors witnoui us,
and then If the mediators tonus to us we
will give them an answer."
This was'Just what was d me. Mr.
I,ee wrote at once a formal letter to
Chairman Knupp, who with Judge Cham-
unions too
I accepted mediation now that
tile roads
i had asked It.
,
Experts Called In.
w ., ,,
Th,r:up1" ralJ committeemen
,f . J cu"c ,at 'e to ' '"
I M "tvn of them did
. These were J. W. Illggliis. executive
sec-
1 retury if thu Association of
Western
I 111 Iriui I n VI1.,
1, of Inform"
on of Eastern
Uailrnads, and Charles 1'. Nelll, manager
of the Ilurrau of Information of South
eastern Itallroiids.
Ileforn entering the meeting Mr. Lee
l,nlalnn,l n H(ln ...l..i, .!.... . U .ll. I
Justment could be obtained better by the
means legally proviueii than by confer
ences between two sets if men with rad
ically different views.
Mr. Onrretsnn'a view of the mediation
was that it munt be quick. He expects
that within five days the result will be
known. He thinks. In fact, that all usual
expedients will be. exhausted In thre.)
days. Mr. Uarretson would say nothing
for quotation about the possibility of the
unions accepting arbitration If the me
diators recommended It. but he does not
think much of the success of recent ar
bitration from the men's viewpoint.
Will Keep Mllrnee.
Until the railroad commlllea and the
union leaders agieert that, unco media
tion had begun, the only statements
should he made by the mediators. Chair
man Kimpp Mid iiothlng would bn gen
out concerning the progress nf negot.i.
tions until either u solution or a dead
lock wns reached.
The members of tho railroad com
mittee who talked with the mediators
are:
Ellsha le, chairman of the confer
ence committee; L, W, Haldwln, general
manager of the Cleorgla. Itallrnad ; C. L.
flardo, general umnuger of the New
Haven Tbillroad; E. II. Coapnmn, first
Nice-president of the Southern Hall
rond: H. K. Cotter, general manager of
the Wabush IUIIroui! j p, n. Crowley,
assistant vice-president of the New York
Central lines; Lyman Delano, vice-president
of the Atlantic Coast Line ; U. 11.
Continmd on Btvtnth Pag.
ry chnnKes tn opetatlng meth- Uen. sipirran . f
ucli radical revision In etah- , Clorhoff. which lies l". '";.,, "',',':
s of compensation" as to make t Hrody and forty-five ml es eyt or Lem
the only ultimate solution, the her,. Oen. Uh itzk P jc . M
said. It iLsked the unloiw to lars t have been as unexpecicu
at the Manhattan Hotel since jesurdny ! b', H t'ycutUng hi" throat with a razor . 'oal Hiver and Cabin Creek dimlcube tho permanent American port for the Jenr" I. the'iLlIke Iv" bTZevi
morning ror Just such a call. Imme- '" " 1' .'Vn luinplng Into the Morris Canal, where, according to reports, more than .transatlantic underwater line. These , ,',Kh,nK before Trieste Is uk. n. for ttU
?h I It J. vi. Y C"" ' ""A0?; , lie was pulled out and taken to the City too persons have been drowned and arr the facts which developed to-day ' Austrian- have several strorg positions
rT'Tl he Wl" "rnl",b,y 'cl'.TO rMU" f ttirtlng this contention: I M. Jj-k 'IX
where Mr. Onrrotson and other union I co:.. Ualvnt. 3:.. of 315 East 173d i To companies of the Second Hegl- A reiort circulated persistently -that I rorUt n,)(, its bridgehead, but enough to
leaders had gone. After a half hour s 1 "'"' ,,c 28i of 4lg Kat i ,m.nt West Virginia National Guard, the Eastern Eorwiirdlng Company, agent permit a stubborn resl-liiin e.
talk with them he returned to the Man- "r. .iin.t lo Ilellevuc 1 have been ordere.l with tents to the u. ...i.... 1......1 The vlemn- m itorio i,ei.. .......t
t...(nn tt'l.l, n...F-.l ,1... .1...
ITALIANS OCCUPY GORITZ, TAKE 10,000;
PRESS AUSTRIANS TOWARD TRIESTE;
RUSSIAN FORCES CLOSE ONSTANISLAU
Capture of Town Carries
Czar's Men to U Miles
From R. R. Centre.
AUSTRIANS RETIRE
ALONG DNIESTER
Troops Withdrawn on 25
3Ii!e Front as Enemy
Presses Advance.
I'KTROunAn. Aug. 9. Oen. Itchltzky's
advance guard Is close to Stanlslau, an !
Important Unllclan railroad centre, and
Berlin admits Oen. Count von Hothmer
ib retiring on ma tweniy-nvc muo rroni
from NIznlofT, on the Dniester, through
Tysmlenltsa to Ottynla, which Is on
the main line railway fifteen miles south
of Ktanlilau. I
Thus the scope of the Russian vie-1
torj- widens and as the details come 1
In It hecdme oln-loua that the Austrian
army Is In dire straits, (icn. Letchltzky
captured Tysinlenltfa to-day, and by
that advance Is within eight miles of
Stanlslau. Ills northerly thrut has
brought him to the banks of the Dniester
on the right Hank of the Austrian line '
along thf Ktrl a.
i
7,1)10 I'rlsonpr Taken,
The llu'slans advanced six miles In
tw,my.four hour(l, anil not tolltent .,,
.....
that, pushed the advance guard on with.
out rest. This can mean only that the
Austrlans are retreating in great dis
order, a conclusion which Is made more
certain by the news that letehltzky's
army took 7, 100 prisoners, half of them
Uerm.ins, on Monday.
The early fall of Stanlslau and Italics
rcenw almost certain and the recapture
of l-mberg Is appreciably nearer. Oen.
Count von ltothiner. who for a long
time has stood firmly Intrenched along
the I'pper Strlpa. before Tamopol.
hardly will be able longer to withstand
the squeesitie process to which he Is be
ing subjected by Oen. letchltzky on tha
south und by Oen, Hakharoff on the
north of his position. In the view of the
military obserseis. was isiara as 'in-
evltable a falling back along the whole
of the Tamopol front.
Ope us Way to Kolomen.
The fresh victory In Gatlcla gives the
RuMlans an exceedingly advantageous
front line, with headquarters on the
Truth, through Ie:atn. ts the west,
and northward to the Dniester, with all
necetsan railway facilities to the rear
through Kolomea. .,,.,
Oen. Count von ltothmer still has two
..i....... whleh he can retreat, but
one ot thefe Ik seriously threatened by
Is Impetuous und Irresistible.
' m 'nvnipnvif
HEAT KILLS 2; 10 OVEKCUMJi.
Temperature Only H!t
' IHnhest
Humidity Slurb Less.
Although the weather yesterday was
""r.' " I.,:; ....... n, .r..ced-
"Z there were," deaths and ten
prostrations from the heat.
Edward IC Allen. of 53 Ilramhall
avciue, Jersey "i, ' '
KlKhtv
Hospital after being overcome.
The temperature ycsinu
did
not
Wife of fintcrnor In lulling; Aeel-
dent nt wiiirt.
Nkwpokt, It. I.. Aug, '.. When on her
wiy to the Casino this morning Mrs.
Whitman, wife of ilovernor Charles S.
Whitman of New York, was In an auto
mobile nccldent. She was driving her
own car, a ruuanom. nun worn in ...i-.
Hellevue avenue was strucii y uuoiner
automobile.
The driver of the latter urn not stop i
anil Mrs. Whitman was unable to get
the number of his car, Her 'rout wheels
wrridarnageil so that she could not con.,
tlniie tu the Casino, but. thanks to Dep.;
ntv Chief Joseph Law Ion of the Eire De-
panmeu , wno ns, . .. . n
runabout Mrs. Whitman reached her
destination.
ESTATE FORGOTTEN SINCE 1867.
Helnllvrs of .lames Culleu l'uniiil
fter Many Years.
llelatlves of James Cullen yeiterday
applied to the Surrogate's Court for let
ters of administration for his estate, Cul
steamship Monarch of the Sens, which
went down In mid-ocean In 1867.
len Is believed to nave pensned on tnn
T..u. V.Afitn II H. On thnl VrfSll.ll1
Cullen maile a small deposit with the
Seamon's Hank for Savings. With the
Interer-t it now umounta to f m, Tho ,
bunk ofliclaU only lecently were able'
to locate Michael Cullen. a nephew,
,hn iiv.s In llnston. Two other nenhewa .
nnd two nieces still i.urvlvc,
Exploding, lias Kills Miners,
Bcranton, I'a.. Aug. 9. Exploding
gas In n shnft or one of the Pennsyl
vania Coal Company's collieries at Ink
ermau, I'a., to-day killed two miners and
seriously burned three others.
(MEAT HBAB HrKINO WATER.
Heaths esse of six glass steppersd bottles.
!.i nlinve S3 degrees SOU ine IIUIIIIUUJ . it. ... vv...- ... . . .v,,M lu.r H.in'n i.ioe Hi'- Vlilj III I OIO, Hie Kr'Ml VVUSir .lll
was much less. A thundershower last According to officials of the .Virginia , l,t v d , ,o",ay , ,.,elr the "v'1' t,,,s- '"' "" W1" "' open.
watspollit a-"ta- mM b" elw"on Vhlt buMdlng C i'lr'irAh''ir, uU rupl,l,5r
ih. Missouri Valley, from w h ch yes- tothtni. ... ,lav morning bv the T A Scott Cnmnimv "encefort h I he fall of tinrlts;, they say,
them have failed. Another V?w?nr AmirU-Vn
nQ WTITTMAN'R MOTOR HIT. ' !" '"i''!! mV!.r.,7.Jl,'. 1 1st IvmiiS X?tt Kl They ,. re concerned lee, the world
TTALIAN official reports yesterday announced that the Austrlans
had been ejected from nil their positions on the west bank of the
Isonzo P.lvcr. The most important of these positions were Monto
Snbotino anil the villaRo of Podfrora, which is on a high ridg-e and
linked to Monte Sabotino by an elaborate system of trenches. The
Italians took also Monte Sun Michcle, on the cast bank of the stream,
south of Goritz.
To the south and reaching toward the cast, between the Isonzo
and Trieste, is the high Citrso Plateau, which offers good defensive
positions to the Austrlans. The work of clearing- it is under way, and
now that an easy crossing of the river has been made possible for
Italian troops they also can advance from Monfalcone on the road to
Trieste, twenty-two miles away.
MA
'Corm
SViriSH
r . ''s
iDcdcrab
'hipnfacorte
or
Scale ofAffes.
100 DEAD AND 5,000
HOMELESS IN FLOOD'
''loiiillini'st Cruises $1,000,000
I Dutmiirc in West Vfrrrlnln
Piniiiiffc iii West Virjrinin
-Militia Ordered Out.
IIl'NTlNOTON, W. Va Aug. 9. Oov.
Hatfield, who arrived here to-night to
I attend the State Itepuhllc.in convention,
' has ordered special relief trains to the
i Hooded districts So serious Is the sltua
t.on that tSuv. Hatfield left the city to
fl.nnn.ooo.
The cloudburst ocrurred at the head
waters of I'alnt and Cabin creeks nnd
coal ltlver. ami the torrent wmcn siirneu
down Coal ltlver swept Its banks al
most clean of villages. Tne Kanawha
I ltlver rose several feet, carrying on Its
crcnt houefn aud buildings of all kinds.
I Cabin Creek Valley Ii.ih n population
. of . (ut 15 00f)
LUFBEJtRy WDJS AGAIN IM AIR. ,
j
, . .
American Aviator Hhoola llown ,
Another lieriuaii Filer. I
Paris. Aug. 9. Lufberry nnd MrCon -
, h , , A ,,. ca(,rllle
if )in nvUUnn e()rp,, w,.re j,n,
i tnK(,tnor (lVer tjw Oerman llnei yester-
day when they became separated. An
hour later MrConnoll noticed three Oer-
ID.llin 11 1 1 IK liuiiimri-i mm (vin uiiiiti i.i
attnek one of them, which was detached
from thu others.
When Lufberry fired the Oertmin
aeroplane fell, showing white on the
under side, thus establishing Its na
tionality beyond a doubt, whereas the
upper sides of Its wings wero painted
1 Breen and brown in lmltaton of the
French mach ncs.
II lull lloi 1IIVO HIIIIIIOM iui in n.uiliiy
the case, but In iJng glides and curves.
Tim aviator must have gripped the. con-
trots In death.
McCotinell descended and saw It strike
the ground, bursting Into a great sheet
nf Maine nnd smoke, An observation
I i, nut otflcl-tliv renorfed the fall.
When Lufberry "bags" one pure he
will be mentioned by name In the com-muntqui'-
and take his place as a new
star In the galaxy nt Erench aviators.
Castro In Han Jaan.
San Juan, I'ortn Itlco, Aug, 9. (len.
Clprluno Custru, former President of
Venezuela, nrrived here tnu' afternoon
from New York. He was enthusiastically
(retted by many VaneautUna,
te:
4 J T0LMttiO
iN
.i3fe
".'"".W'V
Com!n '"K
" '. . at -.ur
NEW LONDON PIER
READY FOR BREMEN
Contract Let for Wnrchnrsp,
i
Stinnnsorllv fur l'so nf Sub-
Supposedly for l'se of Sub
marine Line.
New Iwpok, Conn , Aug. 9. Evi
dence nccuniulates that the Bremen,
Oermany'ii secend submarine freighter.
will dock here, and further that this will
' put
if the State steamship pier at East
London. This report was clenleil,
illlin.il, who was master of the Herman
steamship Neckar, now Interned at Hal
tlmore. spent three days here and were'
i,,r! theie ,ta "
, , ,
'"" mrii UK ciiusignen
to persons eomu-eteil with the North tler-
in.llll.lov.tl.lne. Thin U ..nn,,e...t i.l.i,
111. roninr thnl slilnnl.lllM r.t r.l..Ul -..wl
rubber to form tlie llremeli a outgoing
cargo are nn their wny here,
A motnrbnat not known to shipping
men here Is plying unceasingly between
rori ronu nay and Fisher s island.
nrenien Kinking Itrport Denied.
Lonpon, Aug. 9. The report Pol
' M"-,1..ln ,b" nlted States yesterday
Ihut the C.erniai, .i.l.,arl ll,.
had been sunk while on her nv tn
American port did not appear In the
lUrliner Tagebtatt. as the despatch In
question stated, but In, the Heme.
Kwllxerland. Torn-Wolf. Ti ls newspaper
merely stated It was "probabl" he
Hremen had bee,, sunk owing to an ac
cl.lent to her machinery.
I
SEE A VOLCANO ON BROADWAY
. edeslrlan
I It Is Only
Pedestrians Kind, linnet er, Thnl1
a I'lre In New Kuhnny.
After the Hlnck Tom explosion and ,
the car strike New Yorkers are ready for
anything, so when some thousand of
them saw smoke Issuing from the
stir-
.ace of Itroadway at Tw'enty-slMh street
late yesterday they decided it must
be a volcano about to set up Its stand
' there.
Kut It was a Are In the new subway.
enn.eil bv n short elrcillt In nil Ull.,
e w L i, Z Hi in.' ,, .in e,l 1
ruble. Las in mi lv Inch main rear hy
and the current In adjoining electrical
,..,.l,,lt. ,.-..r -hill ..ff .Inrlrenl...,
buildings In the vicinity
: . ' .. . . ".; " ""
Timbers and finning were Ignited and
thick smoke tilled the subway for a con
siderable distance In either direction.
Hand ns well as water was used fav eg.
I tlnguUhlng the flame,
V ill x
All Positions Commanding
the City Are Cleared
of Enemy.
DEFENDERS T1JA1TED
IN CAVES BY liOCK
Italian Fleet Assists
Bombardment Along"
Isonzo Front.
in
BIG NAVAL BATTLE
IS REPORTED NEAR
Nation Is Cheered by Vic
tory and Predicts
New Gains.
Ito.MB, Aug. 9. Italian troops are In
hot pursuit of tho fleeing Austrian
army. The victory nt Oorltz Is com
plete. All the positions commanding
the city Imvo been cleared of tha
enemy, the city Itself has been occu
pied and 10,000 prisoners with a vast
quantity of vnlunhlo military stores
have been captured.
There Is every Indication other suc
cesses will follow rapidly. This has
not been a single blow struck on one
narrow sector, but a methodical and
comprehensive action from I 'lava,
north of Gorltz, to the sea, a distance
of twenty miles ulong tho Isonzo
ltlver. This whole front was subjected
I to a hall of shells which began to fall
at daybreak Sunday, the Italian fleet
assisting the land forces in the sector
near Montfalcone. The Intention la
not limply to capture the strateglo
railroad centre, but also to clear the
whole Carso plateau of enemy troops.
Anstrlana Imprisoned In Caves.
The great number of prisoners tahen
and the statement that the bombardment
ihuriu 1111111 luririitii'. in raves in me
1 high peninsula where fulling roek nnd
eartn imprisoned them make It seem
probable War Oftlre oilielnl reports have
lagged conservatively behind the facts
and that a movement beyond the city Is
under way. Occupation nf ilorltz would
he precarious if the Cirso plateau re
, malned In Austrian hand", for the city
In In a hollow, surrounded by steep
heights 011 three sides ami commanded
by mountain peaks on the fourth.
1 Austrian orders to her armies once
compared the position of the Italians us
, sailing thei-e heights to that of a man In
. the street attacking a foe on the roof of
-n building
The Immediate object le of
lans now is Trieste. At the n it
the Ital-
lans now Is Trieste, At the point of their
furthest advance on their right they ac
tually are nearer to Trlste than Its de
fenders, hut so long as Oorltz remained
In Autrlan hands they could not ad
vance, because the Austrian on the
Carso l'enlnsul.i menaced thflr llauk
nnd rear.
Trieste Slrnngl) llefended.
iati!e between the Austrian and Italian
fleets .iippreelably nearer When Trieste
p their
full mefd of cnllt for the victory.
The dcfoiu'CM suci'essfullv assailed are
described as In many res is the most
formidable on anv front To ihe
tre-
llien.lous ml vii utairrs offered bv the
, ,-..,,,, ,,, ,,r .,:,-A
' " "y lirillie.HI meilllM WHICH CUUIU in
I !' W'ny llill tlielll.
There were tienches made of rock.
metal and concrete imi th slopes be
fore them were elaborate wire entii'iitie
ments. Light railroads were conMruc'ed
behind the line t permit the (puck
movement of the aitiliery from point to
point n nei-Jed,
f;tw Life tu II pen Wn.
me nilllCfl Ilgmilg WHS lit
The htidett fightli g wns at Monte
Mlchele, probably the most Milti-
, "b,f.. H,r,V,Kl")1'1 1,1 '", ",u,r". "'j'10"'
1 ' nrb ,7.,r,,H' ,m e,,t . "" flo,,t
l h the Italian armies elegraphs :
, . T1' T,"'y ""'" '"T ,
r,ls", rwlst.ince lit the recond lino
V'",1 T ," M,",,,' ?n i,"'h,,11"- ''"
,,,"Hlu;'1 f""1"'' a,t lr,,M ,u ,"a
trench sllll protected hy w re i- tangle-
ments. Tho commaiuler of Hie at' ieklnrf
ll"1""'1"" snld; Hon, we've got to nn'
'l "Taking a haliiiet he cut a pai-sige
through the wire calmly and dellh-
ciately ,li!M as he completi
d h s task he
I fell lliln the aims of Ihe
iler.', ehot
through the hear! Hut the breach had
been made and the Italians swarmed
through Into the AtiMr'nn lines,"
The surceFH Of tile it llians has erenteil
.... i i.. :. "
' ' ! iio. ' riiire ,T ' , a
Milan are decked with ll.us and denioii
stratlons me being held l great Huongs.
' - . '",V"" .V. .? u.ec"
' iniinni il nil in'- tuinsi mil .ie oei.l ell
lV th Austrian attack In the Tientlno
!,, itq nroseeiitlnn now u mirt .,e
f.rR' ' "'.,,," .'le".. which the
I Hie tv.1d .. f. .1 jrC WhlCll tllC l.lltCUtO
Allien urn exerting on vartvlis fronts.
I
Italians Advance I'mlrrgrnund.
Detailed descriptions of tho lighting
show the Italian artillery dislodgbthe
Austria iKUr vUkX luliau Uifiutry
..... . .. ...
, ti.f i.i- -
