"Vfc
'V
SOLDIER JjOYS HIRE
Hardening Process of Militia Men on
the Border Includes Long and
Strenuous Hikes.
"Mike" Reports That Baseball Teams
Are ActiveMarried Men
Apply for Discharges.
Camp Llano Grande, August 4.
Company has just returned from an
eight-mile hike with the Third Minne
sota infantry, as fresh as a bunch of
newly picked daisies. General Fun
ston's "hardening in" process appears
to be working wonders with the troops
and the Minnesota men are gradually
becoming "hard boiled," as they say
in the army. Friday is hike day in
this oufit and they start out Monday
morning with a short three or four
mile battalion march and follow up
this process each morning until Friday,
Then the whole regiment goes on a
real jaunt, dressed in their side arms
and carrying their rifles. No packs as
yet. These come later when we "dough
boys" are real hard boiled.
A week ago today we got our first
hike and through some mistake in or
ders were marched twelve miles in
stead of the intended seven. This was
a bit too strong for some of the boys
of the Third and the ambulances had
to pick up several loads of exhausted'
soldiers who couldn't make it back to
camp. Company lost only one man
and he fell out because he was not in
the best of condition. Besides, his own
comrades had him back on his feet and
were getting him back to camp under
his own steam when the ambulance
came along and arbitrarily took pos
session of him. An hour or so at the
field hospital with the proper care and
restoratives put him back in normal
condition with no bad after effects.
This Texas weather is about as un
certain and contrary as our good old
Minnesota brand. From hot and dry
it went suddenly wet and cooler. For
the last week we have had almost
daily showers that come up quickly,
soak things good shape and as
rapidly disappear It has been cooler
and cloudier than the first sample of
Texas weather we encountered, with
cool, breezy nights that are great sleep
producers. It is naturally presumed
that this is a hot and dry climate, but
the Texas papers all deny the first
count and explain the hot part away
so fluently and thoroughly that one
would imagine he was in the imme
diate vicinity of "Peary's pole,"
original title to which is still claimed
by one Dr. Cook. The dry part is not
so thoroughly covered in the news
paper treatises on weather conditions,
but the irrigation systems and dry
farming bear mute witness to the fact
that they have some dry spells down
here by the border. However, it is not
half as bad as most of the men ex
pected it to be and compares very
favorably with a Minnesota July or
August In fact, we honestly believe
that we have suffered less from the
heat in the last week than the home
folks back in the Rum river valley.
The question of "what are we going
to do and how long are we going to
stay here?" is the one predominant
topic of conversation in the camp. All
kinds of theories are advancedsome
logical and some utterly impossible.
Our guess is that no troops will be
started home until this American
Mexican border commission has been
duly appointed, met and threshed out
to some definite agreement suitable
means for taking care of this vex
atious border dispute. This with the
provision that no further disturbances
or raids occur in the meantime. Best
estimates on the work of this commis
sion fix the time of completion at
"some time in November," presumably
after Nov. 7th.
NOTES.
Last Sunday Captain Johnson and
Lieutenant Kalkman girded on their
automatics, filled their pockets with
government hardtack, slung their field
glasses on their backs and started
south. At the end of a seven or eight
mile hike they found themselves on
the bank of the Rio Grande, looking
over into dreamy, war-torn Mexico,
"the land of sunshine and of shadow."
They describe this famous river at this
particular point as being a sort of
vest pocket edition of the muddy Mis
souri. A dirty, yellowish stream of
uncertain depth and about half the
width of the Missouri. No signs of
life were seen on the other side, al
though the captain thought at one time
that he detected a troop of Mexican
horsemen, with his field glasses, at a
turn in a distant road.
They visited several Mexican homes
on this side of the border and report
^^Histfeall^et
some of the Mexican ranchmen as
being pretty well fixed, while other
homes encountered on the way bore
every evidence of humble poverty. A
good story on the mesquite bean will
be told by "Cap" or "Jerry" upon
request.
The Llano Grande league has now
been opened and baseball games, some
good and some bad, are indulged in
almost daily by the different organiza
tions. So far the team of the Second
battalion has shown up the strongest
in the Third Minnesota. Saturday the
Third battalion beat the First by a
score of 5 to 1. Sunday the Second
took on the victorious Third and shut
them out 5 to 0. Two Company men
broke into the lineup of the Second
battalion and aided materially in put
ting over the win. Smith and Doane
represented the outfit and both gave
a good account of themselves. Smith
carried off the batting*'honors, getting
an average of .750, or three safe wal
lops out of four trips to the plate.
Wilkes was scheduled to pitch the
game but did not feel strong enough to
go in at the start and was held back in
reserve. It was such easy picking for
the first lineup that no changes were
made. When the Third regiment team
is picked there may be some of the
men in it.
Camp Llano Grande keeps growing
into quite a cosmopolitan place with
electric lights in parts of the camp
Y. M. C. A. buildings of substantial
build and size a reported first class
base hospital to be built within 35
days, with all modern equipment, brick
incinerators, floored and screened-in
tents in part of the camp and reported
screened-in cook-shanty and dining
hall for the men. In other words, it
begins to look like a permanent home
for some of us.
All the married men in the company
with the exception of two have made
application for their discharge under
the recent ruling of the war depart
ment permitting married men with
dependent families to receive their
honorable discharge. MIKE.
Crops Fair in This Vicinity.
Nowhere between Princeton and De
troit is there better crops than in Mille
Lacs county, and they are nothing to
brag of here at that. All along the
line of the N. P. from St. Cloud to
Detroit the small grain is very short,
heads poorly filled, and where it has
been cut the shocks are scattering.
From the car windows it looked as if
there would not be more than half
a crop of small grainrye, wheat and
oats. Corn looked fairly well. The
potato vines are sickly and spindling.
Clover seems to be good everywhere
this year.
Locally the crop conditions might
be termed fair. Oats, on sandy soil
especially, are light and some fields
will not be cut. On the heavy soil
there is an abundance of straw but
the heads are not well filled. Rye
will not be more than two-thirds of
an average crop. The acreage of wheat
is small and the yield promises to be
fair. Potatoes have not been doing
well but the recent rains have helped
out the late varieties. Corn in south
ern Mille Lacs county looks good and
the indications are that there will be
a good average yield. There will be
immense crops of clover, tame and
wild hay. On the whole the crops in
this vicinity are above the average
throughout the state.
Didn't Want Him Very Badly.
A fellow named Dennis Chukallis
patted a brother Greek on the head
with a shovel near St. Cloud some
weeks ago. Since then the sheriff of
Stearns county has been on the look
out for Dennis. Last week the marshal
of Milaca had picked up Dennis for
some violation of the law. Sheriff
Schoener requested that he be held
until he could send for him. The
Milaca marshal turned the prisoner
over to a deputy sheriff. The deputy
sheriff was accommodating and per
mitted Dennis to visit some of his
friends on a work train. Dennis said
he would be back time to meet the
officer from St. Cloud. The officer ar
rived in good season but Dennis failed
to show up. This is the story as
related in the St. Cloud Journal-Press.
But the facts are that the Stearns
county officials were not overly
anxious to get Dennis or they could
have had him, as he was in the vicinity
of Princeton the day after he vanished
from Milaca, but no effort was made
to apprehend him.
School Board Organizes.
The new school board met Tuesday
evening and organized for the ensuing
year by re-electing D. A. McRae chair
man and Benj. Soule treasurer. "A. B.
Gramer is the new clerk. A tax levy
of $15,000 was made. This is the high
est levy ever made by the district.
*R. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1916.
FUND FORTHE BOYS
Rev. Joseph Willenbrink First to Re-
spondMiss Clara Larson Raised
$25.25 in Princeton Town.
Subscriptions Will Be Received Until
Aug. 19The Money Will Be
Forwarded to Texas.
Last week the Union made a request
for subscriptions for a small fund to
forward to the boys of Company G, to
enable them to have little necessities
which the government does not fur
nish, and while the boys are not beg
ging, nor are we begging for them,
still we have reason to believe that a
voluntary donation would be ac
ceptable at this time. If any one
wishes to contribute leave or send
the same to the Union office on or
before Saturday evening, August 19.
Whatever is received, be it much or
little, will be forwarded to Sergeant
Grover Umbehocker, treasurer of the
company, on the 21st inst.
The first response to the Union's
appeal came from the respected pas
tor of the Catholic church, Rev. Joseph
Willenbrink, who enclosed a check for
$2.00, accompanied by a card contain
ing these words:
Dear Mr. Dunn:
Enclosed find my mite for the
boys in Texas. 'Tis little enough
we can do for them.
Yours truly,
JOS. WILLENBRINK.
This morning Miss Clara Larson of
Princeton town handed in a list of
names and $25.25. The amount was
raised by her in Princeton township.
Good for Miss Larson. The boys will
remember her. Several other small
subscriptions have been received. All
will be duly acknowelged in the Union
after next week.
We sincerely hope there will be a
generous response. Other towns are
caring for their boys in good shape.
Let us take care of the Company
boys. Send or hand in your subscrip
tions before Saturday evening, Aug
ust 19.
From Lieut. Morton.
Under date of August 4, Lieut.
Claud S. Morton writes a gossipy
private letter from Llano Grande in
which he states that the boys are all
well. Speeder of Foreston who was at
the base hospital at San Antonio for
ten days, is back with Company at
Llano Grande as well as ever. Com
pany was not as hard hit by sickness
as some of the other companies. Lieut.
Morton thinks the camp quartermas
ter, Captain Carleton, has done re
markably well to get things in as good
shape^as they are, considering ^the dis
advantages under which he labored
at first.
Ice for drinking water is obtained
from Corpus Christi, through a Mr.
Allen, who is the son-in-law of Fred
Stamm, a former Princetonian. In the
letter were enclosed three pictures,
one of them showing the boys at work
mrking roads around the camps. The
roads certainly look good on paper
a^d Lieut Morton says they are good.
Permanent Roads a Good Investment.
Until quite recently the Union has
not regarded with favor any proposi
tion for bonding the county for road
improvement purposes. There has
been a great change, for the better in
road conditions throughout the county
in the past three or four years, but
at the present rate of improvement
many of us will be numbered with
those that were before a general sys
tem of good roads has been established
throughout the county. We want bet
ter roads ana we want them now. We
believe that it would pay Mille Lacs
county large dividends to make a rea
sonable investment in permanent
roads within the next twelve months.
Anyhow, there is nothing to be lost
by an intelligent, good natured discus
sion of the matter, and the Union
proposes to discuss it thoroughly
later on.
Dragging Law Largely Disregarded.
The road drag could be used to good
advantage in many localities, where it
is seldom if ever used at present.
Occasionally one will run across a
stretch of road that has been properly
dragged and it is like an oasis in the
desert. One can tell the difference
between a stretch of dragged and un
dragged road with his eyes shut. If
clay roads were properly dragged at
the right time they would be in good
condition all of the time. I may be
necessary to provide a stiff penalty
for failure or neglect to use the road
dragging tax for the purpose the law
intended it should be used.
THE SCE1CHIGHWAY
Enthusiastic Meeting of Boosters at
Detroit Last Friday to Perfect
Organization.
All Determined to Labor Unceasingly
for the Success of the Minne-
sota Scenic Highway.
Pursuant to notice given at St. Paul,
when the Northern Minnesota Scenic
Highway association was temporarily
organized, an adjourned meeting to
perfect the temporary organization
was held at Detroit last Friday after
noon. Representative men from all the
counties that the proposed scenic high
way will touch to the number of al
most 200 were present, each and every
one of them enthusiastic, typical
northern Minnesota boosters. Mille
Lacs county was represented by H. F.
Mann, J. F. Warren, J. A. Allen, E. L.
McMillan, Chas. Keith and R. C. Dunn.
The meeting was held in the spacious
park pavilion on the shore of beauti
ful Lake Detroit, and was called to
order by the temporary president, J.
K. West, with C. E. Hansing, of Brain
erd, temporary secretary, keeping tab.
A motion was unanimously carried
making the temporary "organization
permanent, and resolving that the
directorate be increased hy one addi
tional board member from each county
touched by the proposed route this
being in addition to the temporary
board selected at St. Paul two weeks
ago.
Upon motion the name as originally
proposed, "Northern Minnesota Scenic
Highway," was amended to read "Min
nesota Scenic Highway," it being sug
gested by the author of the motion
that the route covered so much ter
ritory as to make the word "Northern"
inapt.
President J. K. West, of Detroit,
Senator R. C. Dunn, of Princeton, and
Senator P. H. McGarry, of Walker,
were named as a committee to select
the^ directors from the various coun
ties.
On motion the directors and officers
were authorized to draft by-laws and
rules for* the government of the or
ganization, and present the same at
a mealing which will be held some
time in October, at a place to be se
lected by the board of directors.
The secretary was instructed to take
up with all county boards, commercial
clubs, etc., the matter of a fulfillment
of the pledges for the Scenic Highway
that were made for the proposed Jef
ferson Highway, and to urge the
necessity of effective co-operation by
'the local interests in the various sec
tions traversed by the route.
The matter of a suitable emblem or
trail marker was discussed at length
by Charles S. Marden, of Moorhead
P. H. McGarry of Walker R. R. Wise,
of Brainerd G. A. Kortsch, of Alex
andria and Dr. J. A. Dubois, of Sauk
Centre. From all the suggestions of
fered the motion was finally evolved
that the official insignia or emblem
consist of a white star upon a blue
background, the whole surrounded
with a red circle bearing the words,
"Minnesota Scenic Highway." This,
it was suggested, would be distinctive
and emblematical of the great North
Star state. It was also suggested that
this emblem be worked into a mem
ship recognition button, as a design to
decorate all automobiles in the terri
tory covered by the route, and upon
all official stationery and publicity
matter.
Rattling gopd talks were made by
Senator McGarry, Senator Baldwin,
Dr. J. A. DuBois, C. S. Marden, R. R.
Wise, M. N. Koll and others.
Secretary Hansing was directed to
prepare a draft of rules and by-laws
for the organization and submit the
same at the next meeting to be held
in October.
The secretary was also instructed to
have prepared membership cards and
buttons. The membership cards will
cost $1.00 each and will be ready for
distribution by the directors in their
respective counties in a few days.
Hereunder follows a complete roster
of the officers and directors of the as1-
soclation, together with the postoffice
address of each: J. K. West, presi
dent, Becker county, Detroit Chas.
Loring, vice president, Polk county,
Crookston L. S. Kent, treasurer,
Douglas county, Alexandria C. E.
Hansing, secretary, Crow King coun
ty, Brainerd.
DirectorsP. H. McGarry, Cass
county, Walker J. H. Baldwin, Becker
county, Frazee L. H. Nord, Koochi
ching county, International Falls Paul
Marchalk, Roseau county, Warroad
C. S. Marden, Clay county, Moorhead
R. C. Dunn, Mille Lacs county, Prince
ton P. A. Hilbert, Stearns county,
r*.V
Melrose H. F. Mann, Mille Lacs coun
ty, Cove E. H. Foley, Sherburne coun
ty, Zimmerman J. J. .Olson, Marshall
county, Warren P. J. Forsberg, Kitt
son county, Karlstad Casper Lotterer,
Ottertail county, Perham O. D. Lar
son, Norman county, Hendrum A. J.
Wright, Clay county, Moorhead J. A.
DuBois, Stearns county, Sauk Center
E. R. Ruggles, Todd county, Osakis
A. E. Witting, Beltrami county, Black
duck M. N. 'Koll, Cass county, Cass
Lake J. A. Thabes, Crow Wing coun
ty, Brainerd G. A. Kortsch, Douglas
county, Alexandria R. T. Buckler,
Polk county, Crookston Martin Wid
sten, Roseau county, Warroad J. E.
Cowan, Koochiching county, North
ome J. P. Hardy, Cass county, Fargo,
North Dakota.
After the meeting the visitors were
taken in automobiles to Fair Hills,
15 miles distant, a delightful summer
resort on the shores of Pelican lake,
where a sumptuous 7 o'clock dinner
was served through the courtesy of
the Detroit Business Men's associa
tion. It certainly was a feast fit for
the gods and was hugely enjoyed by
all who participated therein. At the
conclusion of the repast a rising vote
of thanks was given the generous
business men of Detroit and the man
agement of the resort.
It was a splendid meeting and the
determination and enthusiasm dis
played augurs well for the success of
the Minnesota Scenic Highway.
Detroit is a beautiful little city of
about 3,500. In the summer season,
counting the cottages around the ad
jacent lakes, the population must be in
the neighborhood of 6,000. It is the
greatest summer resort in Minnesota.
There are several hundred cottages,
many of them elaborate, located
around the picturesque lakes.
Every courtesy was extended the
visitors by the good people of Detroit,
and the Union wishes to acknowledge
the especial kindness of Phil S. Con
verse, J. K. West and the genial Louis
Benshoof of the Record.
An Exceedingly Dangerous Bridge.
The bridge across the St. Francis
river in section 32, town of Glen
dorado, in Benton county, is in a
dilapidated condition, and is absolutely
unsafe- either for teams or automo
biles. The bridge in question has been
slrctky for years and should have been
torn down and rebuilt long ago. But
now it is positively dangerous. In two
or three places there are great holes
in the rotten planks and the entire
structure is liable to collapse at any
moment. This bridge is located on the
main road from Princeton to St. Cloud
and hundreds of teams and automo
biles are obliged to cross it daily. It
is the duty of the county commission
ers to properly care for it as the road
is a state road. While the courts
have held that a town or county can
not be held responsible for damages
resulting from a faulty bridge, yet
there are cases where township and
county officers have been held per
sonally liable for criminal negligence
in the discharge of their duties. The
Benton county commissioners are
criminally negligent every day the St.
Francis bridge is permitted to remain
in its present unsafe condition.
Commendable progress in the mat
ter of road improvement has been
made in Benton county in recent years,
and we are at a loss to understand
why the' St. Francis bridge has been
so persistently neglected.
Would Benefit Entire County.
That the people of the northern part
of the county are fully alive to the
importance of permanently improving
that part of the Minnesota Scenic
Highway that traverses Mille Lacs
county was amply' demonstrated at
enthusiastic meetings held at Onamia
and Wakhon recently. Every hustler
in the lake region attended both
meetings and the sentiment was
unanimous in favor of energetic
action to complete the road without
unecessary delay. A properly con
structed hard-surfaced road running
through the center of the county its
entire length would be of immense
benefit to the county as a whole and
would be of greater benefit to the lake
region than a north and south railroad.
Blaze Extinguished.
The fire alarm sounded at 4 o'clock
Friday morning, and just seven min
utes thereafter the Princeton fire de
partment had extinguished a blaze in
the ceiling of the Creglow store.
Lightning followed a wire into the
building and started the fire, which
was discovered by W. G. Fredericks
who operates the Home restaurant
across the street from Creglow's. The
department boys are deserving of com
mendation for their prompt and effi
cient work.
FAREWELL PARTY
Friends and Former Pupils Crowd the
Armory to Honor Miss Huse
Friday Evening.
Pleasing Program Carried OutSolid
Gold Wrist Watch Presented
to Guest of Honor.
Princeton citizens turned out en
masse at the Armory Friday evening
to attend a farewell reception in honor
of Miss Mary S. Huse, who departed
for Fillmore, California, Monday
morning where she will make her
future home.
The spacious Armory was com
fortably filled with former pupils and
other friends of the guest of honor,
and each one present appeared de
lighted at the opportunity to show
their appreciation to Miss Huse for
her splendid work as an educator in
our schools, and to wish her Godspeed
in her journey to her new home in
the west.
No special organization had charge
of the affairPrinceton ladies, re
gardless of church or club affiliations,
combined to make it a success.
During the evening a fine program
was carried out, but prior to the open
ing number Master Henry Soule and
Miss Genevieve Wilkes carried a box
of sweets to Miss Huse, a gift from
the little folks of the village who have
not yet arrived at school age.
Mrs. H. L. Cowles presided during
the rendition of the program, and the
first number consisted of a well
executed piano solo by Mrs. L. F.
Wilkes. It was well received, and re
marks by Mr. J. J. Skahen, clerk of
the board of education, followed. Mr.
Skahen spoke briefly, but his remarks
were decidedly appropriate and he
paid a deserved tribute to the parting
guest. A pleasing piano duet by
Mrs. S. S. Petterson and Mrs. Ander
son was greeted with applause, and
then Rev. Samuel Johnson of the Con
gregational church spoke. Rev. John
son's remarks were laudatory of teach
ers in general, but he took occasion to
commend Miss Huse in particular, and
wish her the best of everything in the
future. Miss Marguerite Byers then
favored those present with a pleasing
vocal solo, being accompanied on the
piano by Mrs. Anderson and on the
violin by Miss Joyce Petterson. A
reading by Miss Eva Ross was the
next number and so entertainingly was
it given that the audience insisted
upon an encore. Mr. Clifton Cravens,
a former pupil of Miss Huse, then
spoke briefly, paying a graceful com
pliment to his former instructor when
he said that he was certain none of
her pupils could hope to fill their part
in life more fully or better than she
has. Another piano duet by Mesdames
Petterson and Anderson was well re
ceived, and then Miss Margaret I.
King on behalf of those assembled and
others in a few well chosen remarks
presented Miss Huse with a fine solid
gold wrist watch. Miss Huse respond
ed by voicing her appreciation most
feelingly. A vocal solo delightfully
rendered by Miss Marguerite Byers
concluded the program, and then the
ladies served frappe.
Miss Huse leaves Princeton carry
ing only the choicest of wishes for a
happy future. During the 35 years
that she acted as an instructor in the
primary department of our schools
she endeared herself to parents and
pupils alike. Her long term of service
is ^a silent but eloquent testimonial of
her ability, and her place will indeed
be difficult to fill.
The Work of Dastardly Hoodlums.
Every pane of glass in many of the
windows of the little M. E. church in
the town of Greenbush, about four
miles west of town, have been smashed
into smithereens. It looks as if the
building had undergone a bombard
ment. An effort should be made to
ferret out and punish severely the
vandals who have wantonly desecrated
and wrecked a house of worship. This
little church represents many days of
toil and much self-sacrifice on the part
of the good women of Greenbush in
years gone by, and it is a burning
shame that ruffians should be per
mitted to wreck and ruin it now.
Maybe It Needed It.
"My wife carries her fondness for
that cat to excess."
v"How so?"
"The critter takes a prominent part
in concerts given in feline circles."
"Well?" "And dinged if my wife ain't talk
ing of having his voice trained."
Pittsburgh Dispatch.
-r-
i
VI
1
