*THEElJNT-"'ERPRISE.0__
VOL. 19 MALTA. MONTANA: THUR~SDALY. AUGUST -101 1.916 NO. 1 7
IChautauqua Soloists Coming~
is.
N light opera ever met with sureh instantaneous and wide favor a. the
comic opera "Marthat.' Besides giving an eiceptional programn of popu.
lar and grand opera seiecitions at (hluitauqua, the Boston Lyrics will
present the second act from "Marl ha'' hi costume anrd a Ltr'opi'iate se'ltinrg. The
Boston Lyrics are splendidly bralincerl arid thoroughly I rained, and their tab
lean version of the ever popular opera is ilecidedly convincing.
At the Malta Chautauqua
Saturday afternoon and E~vening, Aug. 12
RIFLE CLUB ORGANIZE1º. FOR SALE
The newv rtfle club was organized My entire stock of goods. furni
last Saturday evening wvith a miem- tore and fixtures. Good location and
hership of 35. Officers are A. F. the best reason for selling. The
Winkler, president; C. M. Piper, vice husiness will stand close investiga
president; W. J. Tressler, tre~asur- tion. If yon are looking for a mer
er; W. E. Orrison, secretary and cantile business call on me.
Jessie Piper, executive officer. The . . . . ClHAS. JANZOW',
next meeting will he held at tihe Wooldridge, Montania.
call of tihe officers. Application has -_ __
been sent in for thre club to affiliate Several fromr Malta expect to~ at
with the national association, tend tire trig repuhrlicrtn mreeting aý
-- -Helenra tire 12th, when Justice
Cihas. Stewart is in the city today Hughes xviii talk~ on tihe political is
from the Long X ranch, sures.
The First National Bank
* MALTA, MONTANA^
A General Banking Busine s
ACCEPTS DEPOSITS
4Of Individuals, Firms and Corporations upon
LOANS Favorable Terms
LASMONEY O~t APPROVED SECU4ITY
MAKES FARM LOANSI
HAS SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES TO RENT, $2 A YEAR
PAYS INTEREST ON TIME DEPOSITS
WE INVITE YOUR ACCOUNT
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK
Member Federal Reserve Bank of the United States.
MALTA, MONTANA
;sssss;;$ss~s$$sssssssss$s'$$$$$$s$$$$s$$$$$~$$$$$$$$$;$t$4$$$$$$$$
CREATE A RESERVE
FUND.
Our every facility for the prompt and accurate
S handling of financial matters, the proper care of our
patrons' interests, is being constantly improved and
S developed to the point of greatest utility. You are
a practical man-why not put the PERSONAL
60 WORTH 0 FTHIS SERVICE squarely up to your
S better judgment? Investigate and know whether
S or not this service of ours will help you to create a
larger reserve fund.
STHE FIRST STATE BANK
isssssssssasssssss $$$$$$s$$ss ss$$ssss$ssssss ssssss$isssssi
INOW JUDIGE UTTER
END)EAVORS TO EXPLAIN.
Tuesday evening in the court
r'oomn in this city, Judge Utter gave
Ione 0of his temperance speeches with
which hie is making the rounds of
the district. During Lhe evening he
siidestepped hisi prohihition talk: long,
enough to make a leeble effort to de
fend himself a gainst Vsaets that this
pa per has heen giving to the t axpay
Si-s of thle (oun ty, <.t: i whl e iot. di'
flying tiny o+ the charges ire hav' e
tid agains hV ill, hap i'ies, to drg
-,ilier', into the mie
1; -i:c- a lalcneu '1 ti tlie efiect
that sonic of the 'oun'ty official
,~'i'n're speding tile iioney ielongiiig
i0 ihe taxpa-rs iilegal-yv tihat ai
irin jur iiiul hi111le drawin to in
va-i tvi t(~. Ti lis staeeniet, coining
froni tihe Judgev- speaks very polori y
10 us ati-I iration slind ',pe ial
ly '-o ini tie lace ofi the following
faicts: Ile r-aid the county could not
le gally hire assistance in the p~rose
cution of criminal cases. He said,
however, that the assistance hired in
the prosecution of tihe IDoiey cases
was a friend of his, and we wvill en
dt'avor to show where the frienldship
existing- hetween the judge and At
torney O'Keefe, was of snch a na
ture that the interests of O'Keefe
wci'cr put ahead of those of the tax
payers of tile county. Thena if a
grand jury is to he drown let them
make a tiiorotugh investigation, alid
tile judge wvill find lie is not onl ally
bton solid foundation himself.
When tile county was divided and
itDennis McGrath elected county at
tornley for the new couty113, lie, in
ecompany with the sheriff's office, hn
miediately b~ecamne very husy, and ar
rested all the people thley could find
in the Larh Hills, 011 the chlarge of
cattle rustling? What was the out
Icomne? Th ey were biroughlt to towni
at a great expense, giveni preiliti
' tie rv hearinigs, andl bouiid over to
the district court. Special counicil
was hired to assist Dennis McGrath
1n tile prosecution, and that special
council was no o11her thaln Mr.
O'Keefe, tile friend of thie judge.
If ouir memnory' Is lnot at faulit, 51and
hunilldreds of people, who were pres
d aeit at the time call say as to that,
e when'l one or mloreu of tile Doney cases
wiere under consideration in the
court ro1000 over the First State
hank, Mr. O'Keefe wvho suppaosedlly
tail drawn I the illforllaatiian, arose ill
opposillola toi sonic mtotion i .11 whlen
lie ha d iiicomie fairly well starit--'d
Ilie ill tote for 101 hlie defendant
stofippei i 1te and1 lasked biy whait an
c -th.ily lie h was huttflog into thin' case:
lindi ilsistedih le walited aln liislwet
'Id ore 0 Kl-ele was plermititell ito g
S'u ilel, ini thle ar gumlent Atii
;,:iis lit- ha ti lred Mlt O'Keefe ti
t'S-i-i ill tile illo ---'v-ll oflo ll 01 lht li
ti'ti'iii ll' c--i'si'- 11(111'n inPilli"pi s
r~ny 11111 Si, i , v- di'- whII ii'V" il
at; i-'liiX lor' till delenriani aiil
;liie eltii se1li loeJdge Ilettr, -iii
Iheýi~ toO'ef 0 tid~ akinig pill it
lie pr oceading's uponi the gron'i ii
Siat ihe lioulli ,llutorniey allt no( a1l
.I - rlii then1 sid"leltailis lid .111ol
' it Illpl ob-jectio Xi's muade by, vIl
-I le eii n ta the laolttm sioul Xii
i~at',.' itloi liatilur to Iur lt't' sit111
al counci' iv' the o'iirho--cuion ittii
I'-iliv-li ill t'aI a Tligle' motu in lol .11
flrirt', lies 11h' Ih''lill Ic i lte Cilill
'1'- ti'llt' Jel ' h t the Ct i ll, liliel I Xii
'itd nn ttasn l o vito ,al
SOIALISTIW TI(K ET
Late last night almost a full so
bualst ticket was tiled with tilerlk
anid Recorder Schneider for the coto
ing primaries and it is evident that
as an organization they will be very
much alive at the coming "electioli.
There is hot one candidate filed lor
each office, so at tte urirnaries there
will lbe no contest. They have sonmc
very good men up for office and soem
that this paper has very little use
for, and whose candidacy we will
comment on a little later, and es
pecially is this true of the man who
:is out for treasurer. Following is
the ticket as filed:
For senator, C. L. Smith. F
For representative, Oscar A.
Janes.
Frtesorer, Otto :M1unson. F
Frclerk adrecordter, Fak.
ig Szyioianske.
Frseiff, Andrew Solberg.
Fo i'clerk of court, Walter Jones.
For surveyor, 'V. F, Peterson.
For assessor, Pete Taylor.
For constable, Paul \V. Jones. F
IFor J P. Malta township, W. t1
F i'ric~e.
A' ANEW BA~NIMASTERi
Whe thie Iocal I and playe I Se -
lurdlay night ,at Ithe lawn social ai hr.
" (la's lwPeople wondered at thy'
gre4gatimprovemient and u1pon tn
vetgto twsfudta iboys had a nwlae n necl
w lit cornet player as well.
SA. L. Hendrix, arrived last, weal;
A from Aberdeen, S. D)., and in flit or'
Swill lead the Malta hand and ii hi'
Skeeps up the good work as startedl
Swill soon have one of the best city
01 bands in northern Montana. A goodi
A leader puts new life in any band an rmwa itew aehadoil
SMr. Hendrix we feel sure we miake
i 110 mistake In saying he is the right
I mian in the right place.
MLA(:1\MAKTThis 11101.11111ys qutaitftions are:
SpyinIg Wheat
No. 1 . ......... 13
t No . 2.... 1.24
W~inpitI Wheat
No,.......................... 1.22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 .1
o, .. .. . .. . . 1.16
:? . ~ II1.. . . .. 1.10
I..iti
op . . .. . . . . . . 1.90
( bIII
No.. .. . . . 11
l ;ait't
1: OY MI'OUTS
Ser-ayOrrttoi of' the ('ontnuer
cial ctlub its it een i nstruinenlal,
ix JJith tihe tot ot several other local
Ipeople t in i gtting at conupa fly of lboy
scouts tuganit ed in ?t~alta. A mieet
i tg was iteid at tihe club roomts Tues
rlay nilght a nd thirteen boys signed
the roll andl si nce that litime several
-more haive signedi up. The boy
- scouts expect their new uniforms
next week atnd then will take up the
-. ctive work of the scout:-. An ttp
Splitt anon has beent se'nt in for a
Sscoutmaster here and the hoys with
I a little dr ill ing will lie able to do all
t kinds of scoot work.
NEWV1 IIUIlI)ING TO BE BUILT
The latter part of last week R. Ml.
-Trafton disposed of the lots west of
-the First State bank and those south
I of the postotlice to Ole Veseth. We
funderstand Mr. Veseth wvill in the
-very near future commence the erec
tLion of a $40,000 brtck hiloc k on the I
-lots south of the postoffice and that
the building has been rented. It
1 wviii he one of the substantia~l build
Iings of the city. It is not knowvn at .
1 this time what will be done with the
lots west of the hank, hut it is litkely,
that in a very short time there will t
.1 he modern buildings erected on b'
-them. e
This morning Chief of Polc 1
'* (iarence tosner arrested ('lay anti 0
ii Elsner hiowerton, Ernest Turner and o
a la~rence Harper for he'ing drunk!
ti 7r. creaiting a disattr';ance. The
tii vert to boys and the other Iwo
ii too a fight andi a general rough
s housxe in the restricted district last'
r lrit sitl the arrests followed. i tt
o 1dg W toVilsoni fited the hunch ten it
s ittli rs eath. The yotunger M ower- s
Ii ýtit boy was reitagtei Is he wa:s ~un- s
o tlr ag' tbut tit( ot lieu three are
1,in t liet For a iiiw leyc to Comtui. p
I- tutotr pittt the hude anid ,,iiiiei hlow
= rtnis out witlh Alt. 'osei triliing
it t, raise the ten dolilars siii, intl wlii t'
I to dtubt, lie releaiseid itonight.
in the Di~strict 101111 tfll the 0I'1'1
it .; Augast Ii:
itrMay Il'andali is. ('littie E.
('' . G(iriht'hi, at lorney~ 101
i : 11 t. Il1 I t is it1(T iii i ptti1l1l ii
tor diore allegng crelt.
11 . 1t o.lt ' 1111111111' _ I irti n aciitor
lot'l ilp int lii .Aci on t is iiil ' S ') I
L ai.u pa iti fori iHi ion dtivo, l S i)
\9i~oti & tI ci't & attorney at-'
I1111 T c! l ive 510 5 fo dv1.
ninod ovet to (1S1tie oitnict(ott
I it V Natouil Lanus of :lta ssa.
1ll eilond ege. T Ba silr fixed u at 50
-date ot Montana vs. L.hoMasrDe-,
t- i 10hon over to t ih e District utb
1111 b Jutice Wilson, accused ofasaut
litr glary. Bail f'ixed at $5000.
lodge Utter bteing In Malta, Aug
hIt 9th, a special terms 01f count was
11i1led enod the following caseos were
1I. ijOseid ol';
fielmna F. Johnson vs. Elmer E.
fri plaintitll. A dlecree otf divorce I
I,., grantedl oni h l grounids iii trull
hinclot for $10(0.
.Mla el Gordon vs. J1aniie's (Iordon.
''ri'ssler & Kirtiin, tittortneys for
'ill ildy of' otinor childi was grantid
tiii plaintiffi
Mariaige lIticnescs
.t-org'e K. Still ivan, a go 26, ;1111
'Iu : 10 I)ahstrioiii age 211t, hoth Ii f1
- oetR '1aulge g:5 n \'lita Smith. age 24, both1 of1 tiltid1
W I,
(lot followling filed pettitions lot'ý
Iini icI itizenship:l
P aol S. Hlanson ofi Lovioy
lit.warti Anidersoii. \Vhiiiiwiien.
l'ire folio wing nam11ed titens tie-,
i'atired their nt enthaisi to hbeunie
il iZ'05ien Of the Unoited Stes
IHerbert S. Rogers, Wilf red Major,
,.Myron Hustedi, H-entry F. I ixter,
11William J. Carlysle, Thomas F. Cue,
1 henury E. Emturons, Williami ( ast eel,
"Jiiseph Lester, Leo Zentoer, Fran
cis Gabel, Eugene Sanders, Lhas.
J .ustrabo, John A. Braden, Neal H.
Soue th.
Looping the Loop at Night
t14.
D*~Ag
t., A
it
It )NTIA\A will get its first taste stud thrillitig reats iii aviation with his
e of f the newest thrill ini rviation- hijiltirie ablazi'e with fiireworks. Loop
Iloophing the loop by the light or ing the loop. flying upside down, aerial
11the moon. Using the night sky as a ,tilt wheels, followedI by a s9traighrt
n bttckground, one of the world's great- pitch curt lwtird of nearly a thtiusanai
eat aviators will, for twenty minutes feet, will piiove to thle ma ty spectattors
each night dutring the State Fair, fly lihiat- avitio c asridv at i-eli to a point
tiver' the city of Helena tihtit Mltt-~ where it art1 lie said thla Irta 111t is muaa
Stntinu~n may watch anti marvel at the' icr if liii ili.
doutlawi comi't tracing crazy Patternts 'twit flighits eat-i tdaty at the Fair
(iof fire autg heo rel shtas ' f rutirtil andt tne tfilit ctlt t~hight over
l; ,t a hienight of ,0001 feet ti s terril 1 he cty drii1 rth le week itf Sept. 25
rit! aster w ill perform the mrost diirig ti~o 30.
st Screl tary Orrison11ti C iIounrty At- Clerk anrd Ret-order Scltri ider in -
LI torriey WXolfe were at. Sac l st formis us that itherc ar-c t-gii~t 'ete'
itl night to ik lg artrantgemetoco fo it arid entitiled tot vote at Ilie llitilat'Y
eletion t 11his ttotitth :24:4 vIIters. At
Fspecial train Ito 1 th Ithautilutltr Ih I IrI~imary electionr in April t icter
Sutdiy. The traitn wili lll c tillu wILre but _ °:, rt~t~it 1111 ilt'-t'.
IiL elY rouslt' Ipt o thIl 11 4 01-1 worIk tiy
Ileitot tuattcl-. tile NIovetmbe~r elecltilll.
V-- GeorngI h)utr tof Ilii- l~idulst \IP-r 7. Al Nelsorn, the" I;iscultlil Ilisi
II iity tSL 1ltll Vii Il siotisix- cllolocelt ervll I d
steverall dlay thils week. i hits Ii cc
SOME EAS ISHES FR I
YQ THE HOUSEWIFE INI
HOT WEATHER
Campbell's and Van Camp's Soups
44 Canned Lobster
j Canned Crab
*1* Canned Tuna Fish
Canned Sardines (All kinds)
+ Canned Salmon
+ Canned Shrimp
Canned Dried Beef
Canned Corned Beef
Canned Roast Beef
Canned Veal Loaf
+ Canned Vienna Vienna Sausage
Canned Deviled Meat
Canned Chilli Con Camne
Canned Pork and BeansI
Canned Sweet Potatoes
'I. Canned Asparagus Tips
+ Canned French Peas
Canned Mushroons
+ Grape Juice
* COOKIES PLAIN AND FANCY IN BULK OR ±
PACKAGE
Grape Juice
* Pineapple Juice
The above is just a small list of what our corn
plete stock comprises. For prompt service and
quick delivery call No. 116.
IEll'is Blumenthal
FIFTH AVENUE GROCEIR
