jMpim ynn mnmmnwmwm
f -' .- - ,.-
TF-'TN A N C I A"L EDITION
Ctmtmg
ffirtiwr
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
' r
PBIOE ONE CJSJtfT
c
OI1II.--2TO. 283
PHILADELPHIA, THUKSDAX, ATJGrUST 10, 191 C.
Constant, 1016, bt im rnuo Lxson CoitrAnv
fnlplpfippp"
Kalian troops
ID SLAVS WIN
H TWOFRONTS
Iiaai'nns and Latins Con-
U"" -
Hinue Progress Stamsiau
t; Near Fall
iNUJuu--p""v" "-' ,w
fyfoft Points in War
Qlluaiiuii ui iriuiae
Italians
knf. Kalian iront
'""" A.,orlna n
retreat from
nil jmd-
Kirlila and occupy mo jvusinun
fiKUta BtaUon of Aisoylzza, four
!V.B""..t f Rnrza. on the road to
Trieste and the strong position of
teS. East front Russian
St Galician city of Stanlslau.
Third. West front imuan no
S ' nmr Pozieres. French gain
nd at Hem Wpod. . .
Diplomatic-Entrance of Kumania
7A(n war on s de of Allies seems
IlltO war" .,. ,, ti:
likely, jn view ui ."
Ineccsscs.
Eke victorious armies of General
(jorna arc pushing their operations
JSainst the Austrians on the Isonzo
front with the utmost vigor. Follow
BSlheir capture of Gorizia yesterday,
Italian troops aro pursuing the re
fXtW Austrians and have occupied
toe Austrian aviation station at Aiso
tixza, four miles east of Gorizia, on
tha road to Trieste. Largo numbers
t guns and ammunition and part of
Ihe Austrian rear guard that attempted
stay the Italian pursuit in tho
i'qbnrbs of Gorizia have fallen into tho
lands of the Italians.' Tho fall of
Gorizia is reported to have created
great consternation in Vienna. A strong
Igitauon for a separate peace, secretly
encouraged by the Government, is said
0 DB OH 1UUI. 111 nuanio.
Russian troops under General
'Letcbitsky are approaching tho Bis
triUa River, three miles from tho Ga-
Hcian city' of Stanislau. A great battlo
is expected at this point. Tho fall of
Stnjiislattr which is bclioved imminent,
will compoll an Austro-German retire-
'..! - it.. J i- At-- T!--l. t:....
pieni noruiwpra w mo uiuvawr iwvcr.
This would forco tho right wing of
Iwaral yon Bothmer, -who is in chnrge
ofjjie main defense of Lemberg, to
fib hn na1ftnma .-!, ftp XXtlMnf TvlinM
LWW UJ jJUIIWlWUil U. W. AAU.WM, ....w.w
(tnefinal battlo for tho possession of
lemberg is likely to bo fought.
cThe uninterrupted advance of the
jRnssian armies, coupled with the Ital
ian, successes on tho Isonzo and the like
lihood of an immediate Allied advance
from Salonica, may soon bring Itu
fraania on the side of the Allies, reports
from Bucharest, via London, indicate.
Despite unfavorable weather, tho
Anglo-French troops aro continuing to.
exert tneir pressure upon tho Uermans
on the Somme front. Australian troops
have made another ndvance in the
Lector of Pozieres. The- city of
Bapaume, the immediate objective of
the British in tho Somme drive, is in
flames, and, like Peronne, the objec
tive of the French, has been rendered
tatenable by the intense fire of Allied
guns.
fcThe Paris War Ofilco reports prog-
ss for the French at Hem Wood. A
liquid-fire attack by the Germans at
yfermandovillers has been repulsed.
SpNTE 8AB0TIN0 BLOWN UP
J ITALIAN JUNES; AISOVIZZA
ALSO TAKEN BY GEN. CADORNA
i . t.
"on of Altovlzxa, four miles east of
jt-"f ns Been captured by Italian troops
J?.'9 continuing tha pursuit of the Aus
Kn force that retreated from Gorilla, ac
BrC, B. to rePrla received here today.
Mvaljy troops and bersagllerl cyclist de
lrrS?e!IU ""'ered Alsovlzza after putting to
W W Aurtrlan rear guard which' at
atta to mako a stand In the eastern
S?WM of Gorltx. In this action a body
JLAttjtrian troops Is reported to have been
WK from the main force..
Kg" following official statement waa Is-
iThft niimYM i 4-t .h
w-, , -- ui iJdauiiora IU.K011 ab
liim ctncu i,jov, uui mcag
"wm are being- continually Increased.
ePOtl Of CroViRfnnq hfiil .mmlinlMnn
WM found Intact by our troops and
Pun It t heavy BUns T7era captured.
kiiirfcw,fc. : -- i,s ruoifiu ixrtuT lias uceii
Wwrkat hampered by the necessity of re
? ? maebrldges and roadways de-
m by the enemy before th, retreat
9 ?fl,zla- Infantry detachments, how
ri "I! In c,08 conUct with the Austrian
5iimi ,trlkinff unceasing blows and
if initi . . Q cut oa and surround bodies
juwian troops moving southward toward
SJlCarw phvteau.
3hL7. nu"lbera ot heavy 'guns, which
SraiShS? 5a.? .,nat,9 ineffectual attempts
3ii?i5!?5 l e11 ,nt tha hands of General
ffiK Victor Emmanuel Is understood to
Costumed on Psi Itn, Column Two
gTHE WEATHER
UTiTfV.n A .JT
TW PhilnJl1.1- J ....!..!... n
m ;;3r" ? aIu.v,c'""l'-",-
uafo. mT? u?;u cvniinuea coot 10
ffftj. Friday partly cloudy and
SEPr' moJraf northeast winds, be
Kg1? iMheatt Friday.
jm... Taip. m. (Moon souths MT p. in.
fVKLAWABE BITKS THUS CIUKOES.
J. . CHESTNUT BTRBET.
F;gr 2 a. m. i Wan water 11 J9 p. ra.
w a .to, m. lLow wtr. ft;i3j.m.
s at mcu uovn.
LWWEKAtUW!
Hl0niil3 rigr8t 4i 6
rajjtLm.mnpTttrra J .
FIRE BLOCKS HUNDREDS OF CARS
gtorosaatjaa
Photo by Ledrer Thoto Tatrol.
The blaze at Third and Chestnut
streets today caused a lino of cars
to bo stalled as far back as Elev
enth street The Third Street lino
was also blocked for a consider
able time. Thousands were lato
to work. This is a view from
Seventh and Chestnut streets.
FLAMES DESTROY
RICH SPICE STORE;
DAMAGE $150,000
Clawson Building,- Chestnut
and Second Streets, Swept
by Fire
SEVERAL FIREMEN HURT
rhotocrnplm of the Clawson Compnnr flr.
Chestnut street, are shown on the back pare.l
FIro Bwept tho six-story brick and Iron
building at 240 Chestnut street this morn
ing with such rapidity that within 20 min
utes of their discovery tho flames had
enveloped the structuro and were threat
ening to Invade the properties adjoining.
The Clawson Company, Importers of
spices and flavoring extracts, occupies the
building In which the Are originated.
Louis F. Clawson, vice president of the
Clawson firm, said the total loss to stock
and balldlng would amount to between
J160.000 nnd J176.000. Valuable spices,
which cannot be replaced because of the
war, particularly vanilla beans, wer,e
destroyed. The value of the damaged stock
alone amounts to more than 1100,000, ac
cording to Mr. Clawson.
Five alarms of Are, struck within 20 min
utes, summoned a detail of englno com
panies and hlghrpreasure apparatus .that
deluged the blazing -warehouse and the
properties to the rear on Ionic street which
appeared to be In Immediate danger.
Chief Murphy took personal command of
his men and kept streams playing on the
establishment of IL & W. II. Lewis, com
mission merchants, at 238 Chestnut street;
tho drug and medical house of the David
Jayne Company, at 242, and the Interna
tional Printing Company and Hanscom
Restaurant property, at 238.
Lines of high pressure) hose, extended
along Ionia street, burst during the early
period of the fight and held back the fire
men In their efforts to penetrate the dense
smoke that baffled them In forcing entrance
to the building.
Cars on Chestnut and Third streets were
stalled and many workers had to walk sev
eral blocks nut of their way on account of
the congestion of cars and fire apparatus.
The origin of the blaze Is under Investi
gation. One theory holds electrlo wiring to
blame. Waitresses In the Hanscom restau
rant declare they heard an explosion in the
Continued on rate Two. Column Mo
JUMPS 500 FEET FROM
41ST STORY TO DEATH
Aged Man Suic&e by Leaping
From Tower of Singer Build
ing Crowds See Fall
NEW YORK, 'Aug-. 10. By a spectacular
600-foot plunge from the 41st floor of the
Singer Building-, the lecond tallest ofQce
structure In the world, Albert Goldman. 80,
of SS2 Eat Fourteenth etreet, Brooklyn,
committed suicide at noon today.
Thousands of ' ofllco employes In lower
Broadway saw Goldman's body hurtling
through the air and rushed to the middle
of the street where It was flattened on the
brick pavement
Crowds from Wall street. Broad strset
and other section of the downtown sky.
semper district jammed Broadway until
the police reserves were called to clear the
tracks for street cars.
In Goldman's pocket was found a letter
In reply to on application to secure him a
place in the Monteflore Home, of New York,
for ccronio invalids. Goldman Is the first
man to Jump from either of New York's
thr4 noted skyscrapew the Woolworta
n,,ii.iinif. the Elnser Building and the Metro-
imim ! i i i i ,mim i mm mam mm w
..-.. ., , ,-. --,.-. '(-ir- - ,,m
"4 txmviwf &u mm maKnmvJWa&Z
ps-tXtM-MvMlBM,
CLUBMAN FOUND
SLAIN ON STREET;
WOMEN QUIZZED
Harry Frankenfield Be
lieved Murdered Other
Theories Advanced
BODY BADLY CRUSHED
Photo by Gutekunst.
HARRY FRANKENFIELD
The pollco expect to make one or more
arrests In conjunction with the mysterious
death of Harry Frankendeld, nn Insurance
broker, member of the Manufacturers' Club
and a prominent Mason, who was found
dylner early today o'n' the pavement fronting
the residence of Mrs. May Stelgerwald, of
1600 Wallace street, by Mlsa Ethel Young,
a boarder at the' same residence.
Captain of Detectives Tate made the
announcement this afternoon following a
closed-door conference with Mlsa Young,
Mrs. Stelgerwald and a Miss Bardie, all
living at the Wallace street address.
This morning Mrs. Stelgerwald told news
papermen sho did not know Frankenfield
and had never seen him. According to Cap
tain Tate, she admitted this afternoon that
she did know the dead man, nnd that he
had called at the houso on one occasion.
Continued on Pare Two, Column Three
SUFMAGISTS DECIDE
TODAY WHERE 4,000,000
VOTES WILL BE CASf
National Executive Committee
Meets in Colorado to Cast
Party's Lot in Campaign
for U. S. Presidency
MASS-MEETING TONIGHT
COLORADO SPniNQS, Col., Aug-. 10
What the new woman's party will do at
tho polls November 7 will be settled at the
conference of the party's National Executive
Committee meeting here today.
With scores of conferences, all leading up
to a decision on their choice for President,
leaders from' the 11 suffrage States com
posing; the party met here to decide which
way to throw the 4,000,000 votes they say
they control.
Four speakers will train their guns on the
male politicians tonight Mlsa Maud Young
er, California, secretary of tha National
Council of the Congressional Union; Mrs.
Florence Bayard Hllles, Delaware, chairman
of the Delaware branch of the Congression
al Union; Mrs. William Kent, California,
of the National Executive Committee of the
Congressional Union and wife of Repre
sentative Kent of California, chairman of
the recently formed Wilson . Non-Partisan
League, and Mrs. Sara Bard Field, ot
Oregon.
The conferees here Have Just one motive
to force passage ot the constitutional
MMUHIlfWIIH'llll lilli li ln M ii i I I
amenament permuting women to vote. I
If the Democrats don't show signs of j
wsULasi-n. Van Ibj.Cclwsji JTlx
PARENTS BREAK
QUARANTINE; TWO
Paralysis Victims Taken on
Street Cars and Railroad
to Another State
REVEALED BY LETTERS
Statistics of Spread
of Infantile Paralysis
New cases in Philadelphia.... lfi
Totnl cases in Philadelphia. . . . 130
Total deaths in Philadelphia.. 29
New casos in New York 175
Total cases in Now York CG94
Denths in New York 38
Total denths in New York.... 1298
New cases in Pennsylvania... 5
New cases in New Jersey 130
Exclusive of Philadelphia.
Anonymous letters to Health Department
officials have brought to light two cases
of infnntllo paralysis which have been enro
fully concealed, tho children being taken by
their parents on street cars, railroad trains
nnd to a town In another State. These wero
Helen HlgglnB, C years old, of CS38 Leeds
street, and Mary Pearl Whlttlck, 10 months,
old, ot 822 East Mercer stroot. ThoHlg
glns enso has resulted In a physlclnn being
reported to the State Board of Health as
"criminally negligent."
Tho Whlttlck girl had been 111 for 10
dnya. During that time she had been
carrlod from her homo nnd on tho street
enrs, until a worried woman sent Dr.
A. A. Cairns, chlof musical Inspector, n
Icttor asking him to Investigate. Ho did,
nnd found that tho child was n victim of
Infnntllo paralysis.
Tho Hlgglns girl, while 111, lias been
carried across tho ferry, and on a rnll
road train to n town In a neighboring
Stato, which Doctor Cairns would not
descrlbo today, for fear of exciting tho
Inhabitants. But tliero tho child was
treated for several days by n physician,
who Anally told her mothor that he
thought It was best that she tako Helen
home. Tho child Is now paralyzed In both
logs.
"It Is such' criminal negligence as this,"
declared Doctor Calms, "which Is one of
the things Philadelphia Is up against.
I wish I could get plenty of anonymous
lottol-s. If tjicro. Is nny.thlng nt all, sus
picious about any case, an anonymous
letter will cause us to Investigate. Imme
diately." Three new cases were reported today,
bringing the total to 130. Camden re
ports two deaths; Philadelphia, none.
Tho I new cases In Philadelphia aro:
Isadora Pollock, 13 months, 802
Federal street.
James Bannon, 2 years, 2451 -Oak-dale
street.
Mary Pearl Whlttlck, 10 months,
822 East Mercer street.
The deaths In Camden nro:
Florcnco Wcnzell, 6 years, 108
South Thirty-second street.
Jr.mes E. Steelman, 18 months, 718
Elm street,
That tho situation Is far from being
under the control of the authorities Is at
tested by the spread of tho disease to
Darby, where Herman Bass, 2 years old,
son of Jacob Bass, a tailor, of 62S Main
street, Is a victim. He had been suffering
for some time from what seemed to be
stomach trouble, but after his death his
aliment was diagnosed as paralysis.
FIRST CASE IN DARBY.
This was the first case of infantile par
alysis In that suburb, and the health au
thorities are taking precautions to prevent
Its spread. A 21-day quarantine has been
placed on the house, which Is guarded by
a policeman, who has been ordered to allow
no one to enter or leave. Mr. Bass has
three other children.
In the tailor shop are many suits of
clothes which Bass had planned to deliver
Contlnard on Tare Nine. Colamn Three
FATHER M'DERMOTT MAY
EXPOSE A. 0. H. SECRETS
OF M0LLIE MAGUIRES
Priest Declares He May Make
Public Old Papers in Mine
Field Scandals
SOME NOT UNDER BAN
A promise of exposure of the secret his
tory of the Ancient Order of Hibernians,
through the production of documents to
Justify his opposition to that organization,
today furnished a new sensation to the
resignation of the Itev. Daniel I. McDer
mott from the rectorship of St. Mary's
Catholic Church, Fourth arid Spruca streets.
Father McDermott declares he has these
documents, and his submission ot them to
the public depends upon circumstances He
made this assertion despite the prohibition
of Archbishop Prendergast, who forbade
publication of papers said to support Father
McDermott's arraignment.
Father McDermott Intimated that he may
obey the Injunction of his ecclesiastical su
perior and yet reveal the evidence upon
which his antagonism to the Irish secret so
ciety is based.
The seal of Becrecy is placed upon the
priest in so far revelation of knowledge
Imparted-to him In the confessional is con
cerned. Father McDermott attended to the
scaffold several of the "Mollle Magulres"
executed in Fottsville during his pastorate
there. But In addition to the last confes
dons ot these men the priest also obtained
front them other confessions and. admissions
) -hatbss&M-Xaie
Iwe, Colusa Ccr
QUICK
U. S. WATCHING CHICAGO WHEAT MARKET
WASHINGTON, Aug. 10. United States District Attorney
Clync nt Washington this afternoon was ordered by the Department
of Justice to keep a close watch on tho Chicago. Board of Trade's grain
exchange for attempts to manipulate tho market during the sensa
tional activities of wheat.
FOURTEEN MEN OVERCOME IN MINE
".". LLXEi-BARPE, Pa., Aug. 10. Fourteen men were overcomo
by black damp In the No. 3 shaft of tho Susquehanna Coal Coinptuiji;
.... flWUVWW MUjr..
GENERAL KUROPATKIN GOVERNER OE TURKESTAN
LONDON, Aug. 10. A Central News dispatch from Petrograd
says thnt General Kuropatkln, who has been In command of the Rus
sian armies facing Field Mnrsh.nl von Hindenburg at the northern
end of the Russo-Germnn front, Iisb been appointed Governor Gen
eral of Turkestan.
SARATOGA RACING RESULTS
r.ist race, 3-year-olds nnd up, claiming purse ?500, nil to tho
winner, Q furlongs Royalist, 105, Mink, 11 to 5, even, 1 to 2, won;
Cash on Delivery, 112, Dyke, 10 to 1, 4. to 1, 2 to 1, second; Char
meuse, 118, Troxler, 12 to 1, 5 to 1, 5 to 2, third. Time, 1.14.2-5.
OIL PRICES CUT FIVE CENTS A BARREL
PITTSBURGH, Aup. 10. The Joseph Seep Purchasing Agency today mado a
reduction of 5 cents a barrel In nil grades of crudo oil, except Rowland, which was
not changed.
LANSING DENIES LUSITANIA REPLY RUMOR
WASHINGTON, Aug. 10. A report thnt tho United States had naked and
obtained Germany's permission to publish a note from that country regarding the
Lusltanla negotiations was flatly and emphatically denied today by Secretary of
State Lansing. "I know of no such communication," ho said.
STEAMSHIP LINE MAY BE ESTABLISHED HERE
Officials of tho Chnmber of Commorco conferred today with a New York cap
italist who is considering the establishment of a line between this city and the cast
coast of South America. If tho negotiations nro successful threo vessels.'ench with
a capacity of 3000 tons, will engage In regular service within several months. Tho
name of the capltullst was not revealed In tho statement regarding the negotiations
Issued by ihe chamber.
COURT LIFTS MUNITIONS EMBARGO IN NEW JERSEY
TRENTON, Aug. 10. Sitting at Belmar today United Slates Court Jttdgo John
Rellstab grantod an Injunction restraining tho Board of Commissioners of Jersey
City from preventing tho shipment through that municipality of explosives by the
Canadian Car nnd Foundry Company. The embargo was declared after the recent
Black Tom disaster, but under the Federal ruling tho placing of tho ban was Illegal
and tho transportation of wnr material can bo carried on as freely as before
REPUBLigANS REJECT CONGRESS PROGRAM
WASHINGTON, Aug. 10. The Republican members of the Senate after a two
Iwurs' conference today voted to reject tho legislative program proposed by the
Democratic Steering Committee to enable Congress to adjourn before September 1,
The Republicans decided to urge ucttnn on the Immigration bill at this session. The
Democratic Steering Committee's program Included only the shipping bill, the work
men's compensation bill, the emorgency tovenuo bill and the general deficiency bill.
Negotiations were opened also to curtail debate In tho interest of early adjournment.
BRITAIN AND GERMANY
LONDON, Aug. 10. Great Britain has Teached an agreement with Germany for
the exchange of all prisoners over1 45 years of age regardless of numbers. Lord
Robert Cecil announced In Commons this afternoon. Arrangements are being
sought for nn exchange of equal numbers of prisoners of mllltnry age, he stated.
(A Copenhagen dispatch thrco weeks ago reported that such an exchange had
been effected.)
ASKS COURT TO COMPEL RAILROAD LOBBY TESTIMONY
WASHINGTON, Aug. 10. Chief Counsel Joseph W. Folk, on behalf of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, today filed In the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia a brief In support ot the commission's petition asking that Milton 11,
Smith, president of the Louisville and Nashville Railway, be compelled to answer
questions put to him by the commission.
political campaign contributions, the hiring
railroad funds to create public sentiment In
THIRTEENTH PENNSYLVANIA CALLED TO BORDER
WASHINGTON, Aug 10. The Thirteenth Pennsylvania Infantry Regiment
was today called Into servloe by the War Department. It will be sent to th,o border
as soon as possible to replace th Second Pennsylvania Infantry, which lias been
converted into a field artillery regiment. The Thirteenth was not included in the
original call issued for the National Guard.
CAR STRIKE STILL ON, FLYNN SAYS; ENDED, SAY COPS
The strive oi trolleymen of this city la still on, according to Harry F, Flynn,
president of Division 477, Amalgamated Association ot Street and Electric Railway
Employs of America, Flynn adheres to his original assertion that 2400 men are
out Th police nnd ofllclnls deny Flynn's assertion, The Central Labor Union
adopted a resolution indorsing the strike last night, but refused to declare a boycott
against the cars.
FOOD CONDITIONS IN GERMANY IMPROVE
BERLIN. Aug. 10. A good Index to Improved food conditions in the cities of
Germany is afforded by the experimental municipal mass feeding in Berlin during
the first month's existence of the municipal kitchen The initial registration was
disappointing to the authorities. The number of participants rose slightly during
the first two weeks, but today has sunk to one-halt the original number, which, In
view ot the fact that municipal food is offered at and below cost, Indicates that at
present there is neither .widespread need nor demand for it,
FIRST OF ALL SUBMARINES WILL BE PRESERVED
The Holland, the first of all submarines. th' property of the Henry A. Hltner
Sons' Company, of this city, has been sold to Dr. Peter J. Gibbons, of New York;
for $350. The vessel, which waa. built by John Holland, Is on view on the. lawn of
the Commercial Museum here. Doctor Gibbons bought the Holland so it would be
preserved in memory of the inventor,
ECONOMIZE, ICE MEN SAY, AND AVERT FAMINE HERE
Ice manufacture of Philadelphia, have asked the citizens to economize la the
use or Ice to help them avert a famine later In the summer. They cay th can-
sumption tuts reacnea iv.vve tons a aay. or
jjaclujw la-Jh Jr o -wiyaflce
f
NEWS
. . .-.
. - .. .i
utjsmaasMjgisMi
TO EXCHANGE PRISONERS
These interrogations pertain to alleged
of legislative lobbyists nnd the using of
favor of the railroad.
iwit? ius uipauiy oi su inn ice-maxing
JOT , . . ., .,,-
POLICE CHIEFS
IN SHADOW OF
JURY'S FINDING
Mayor Reported Ready to
Remove Any Directly ,
Censured
"SHAKE-UP" IN PROSPECT
Police Officials Who Face
Possible Dismissal
"TWILL dismiss any police of-
ficial whose dismissal is
recommended by the Grand
Jury." Reported comment of
Mayor Smith.
Polico officials mentioned In tes
timony of Grand Jury Investigation
of vice conditions:
Director of Public Safety Wil
liam H. Wilson.
Assistant Director Hnrry C.
Dnvis.
Superintendent James Rob
inson. Captain Nicholas J. Kenny.
Lieutenant Georgo Stinger.
Lieutenant Josoph 'W. Van
Horn.
Charles Lee, former chief of
vico squad. ,
lilichael Kearso, district do
tcctivo. Removal from office of high police offl
clals and n reorganization of tho Bureau
of Pollco Is one of the chief recommenda
tlons under consideration today by the
Grand Jury.
When tho presentment Is laid before
Judgu Rogers tomorrow In Quarter Ses
sion's 'Court the names of tho official: sug
gested for dismissal may become known.
At present tho members ot tho Grand
Jury have not let It becomo known whether
their report will censure the bureau at
taches specifically and mention names or
will Incorporate the recommendations for
a shake-up and reorganization In general
terms, leaving tho matter of swinging the
nx and placing tho Individual blame In
tho discretion of the Mayor.
"I will dlimlts any police ofllclal whose
dlnmlual Is recommended by the Grand
Jury," Mayor Smith la reported to have
Id today.
Submission of the Grand Jury present
ment, with tho promise of Henry 3.
Barnard,, the foreman, thnt It will contain
no "whitewash" In Its treatment of vjee
conditions, is nwaited with trepidation by
pollco and politicians' alike. The meager
satisfaction that thoy dare express In ad
vance of the presentment Is derived from
tho fact that the Grand Jury, under exist
ing law, Is powerless to Indict persons found
guilty ot dereliction In connection with the
vice probe.
. Tho Grand Jury, when it makes Its
presentment, automatically passes out of
existence. It can only recommend, but
cannot Indict, In matters ot Its own In
vestigation. It can, however, and, according
to the statement ot some of Its members,
will recommend indictments to be taken up
by Its successor.
In the matter of the vice Investigation,
this successor Is the August Grand Jury
which meets for organization next Mon
day. PRESENTMENT NEARLY READY.
The present Jury expects to have Its
presentment complete and In shape for sub
mission to Judge Rogers in the Quarter
Sessions Court at noon tomorrow. It will
become publio Immediately upon presenta
tion to the court
That some of the departmental officials
are to be held personally responsible for
the conditions revealed by the raid ot July
15 and Its sequel Is regarded as certain by
persons close to the Jurymen. It Is taken
as almost equally positive that these officials
will not only bo the district commanders
and policemen In the districts affected, but
'..that the presentment will name persona
"higher up" as sharing the responsibility
for the manipulation upward and down
ward of the ''lid" of the Tenderloin resorts.
The main question before the Jury today
appears to be .the propriety of naming these
officials directly or leaving the discovery
ot their Individual Identity and request for
removal to the Mayor, relying upon his re
ported Intentton to act promptly and vig
orously In holding the persons to blame to
a strict accountability for their ofllclal neg
lect, and 10 leorgantzlng the department
that future recurrence of the evil condition
shall be Impossible.
"STRAW BAIL" SCANDAL.
Probably the most sensational disclos
ure of the two-week Investigation came to
light yesterday, at the end of the hearing.
It was the evidence that revealed the fact
that Magistrate Call had accepted "straw
ball",, for 19 raid victims, and proved the
positive collusion between ward politicians
and those directly responsible for vice con
ditions. t. Clarence Gibbony In his snal address
before the Jurors placed the blame for vice
conditions on the Blankenburg regime, and
virtually recommended the dumiual of
Assistant director of Publio Safety Davis
and Superintendent of Police Robinson, and
a general shake-up of the heads of the po
lice bureau.
What was expected to be a terrific flnlsa
to an notable investigation was remarkable
for the lost motion ot some of the wltnessa
memories. Nevertheless, some vital U.?U g
were developed. They are ta part as fel
lows: Policemen and' police oSJctaU, for reason
said to lie In the power of organised yuMti.
cal strength, tear to take tha laHfavu
against certain forms of crbn aa vie.
They ever took up for orders, whtefa iuiy
coma do wit. Captain Kinuj. tit iBstafl$
alUwwahtie waa supBMmt to u that liut
s imtA yteiU4 ut mu Shwmk MKat
fc,
lii m i iii i1iiTiiiP
jLwmmm
mmmtmmmm
titmemmmmimmmm
