Bringing Up Father
Never Loses lis Keen Wit and
Delightful Ilumor
G6th YEAR
VIIMIMR AO
M 222
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1916.?TWELVE PAGES.
i\^Y'',,,KU ?PAIR
Franf^ Carpenter
Look for His Alaska Letter in
the Sunday Times-Dispatch
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
Germany Gives Consent to Its
Use as Formal Docu
ment.
INDICATES ITS ACCEPTANCE
Next Step Probably Will Be Ef
fort to Collect Promised
I ndemnity.
w A SI! r .V G y < > V, A n-.j-t f - The
I'nlted States ha? asked f,?- nji.l rf
r?)vorj permission from ' iermany to
publish a y a formal document I ho Inst
nr>' ** the 1.usi t :i n ia '???isc. In which
r?ermany "r? .'in;liability," prom
ls,'? to milk.- lopjiration l.y tho pay.
'?u-nt of indo'inntl y. trlves assuniiu'i's fur
'i'* future and (! fi'lsi res that reprisals,
i')i -if ruthless submarine oprr.it inns,
i :-i = l r.ot In dt root< ri ut other than
'?!i?-iny subjects.
Tho noto was submitted h.v fount
'"?i He;nstorff nojipjy six months aco,
?Mid tho Stato Department's intention to
Publish i' is hollo v o#| to indicate Its
nr nptan<~o
A' ? ir;t; .secretary F*? ]V; declined to-day
?o 'II mibs plans .if !!,<? United States
!;i reijarrt to tho Lusitaniu case, or to
? -I'.ko when tho do -wtr. nt woul'l ho
Jjl'-'on out. Tho communication. dated
I'ohruarv 1 ?> Inst, deals only with tho
principles involved, and <loos not mon
'lon the amount of indemnity Germany
is tn pay. or how or whon tin- amount
will he agreed upon.
?|l i:STIO\ OK IVDI'AIM'n'
ii.\?? m?t iiki:> i>iv<'i ssi:i>
' nt 11 now thoro has boon absolutely
no discussion between (!oum von Bern
"torfT and the state Department or be
-woon Ambassador Gerard and the Rf*r
lln 1- oreign Oftj< o ri ?a ? ? Iir> it tho ques
tion of indemnity The Gorman kov
ornment i.s repr-s, ntod as feeling that,
living sitnitlod Its willingness to make
reparation. the United States must
inak?- tho next move t ward secur
ing it.
Tho communication, when submitted
by c.iuiit von Tterr.storft. was regarded
as being tentative. ai:d the United
Statos refrained from accepting it he
i anno of the declaration hv the central
powers of their Intention to treat as
warships armed merchant ships of the
entente allies. During the discussion
of this declaration and the negotiations
over the attacks upon the channel
steamer Sussex and -other vessels
carrying American citiezns the com
munication, which stands as Germany's
formal reply t ? the las; American Dusl
?.uiia note, has lain in t!.<- State De
partment unacted upon
Having s? ur?<i further assurances
?ttgardlng the conduct of submarine
warfare at the time of the negotiations
over the Sussex disaster, the State
Department derided to await develop
ments, principally with the idea of de
termining how Germany's assurances
would be observed.
It has been indicated hy ??fli Sals of
the department recently that. it ap
parently being evident that Germany
was living up to her promises, the
Lusitaniu note, the wording of which
nr.upiod much of the time of Secre
tary Lansing and Count von Bernstorff
over a pet iod of many weeks, should
he published. The Berlin Foreign
'?flice offered no objection.
IIIMIIir.il>> OP CI.AIMS
ham: hi:k.\ kii.kii
Hundreds of claims for live* and
property lost on tho Lusitnnia are on
file in the State Department. Heirs of
victims have filed claims ranging from
5">,OfO to $l.noo.ofiii each. The total of
the claims on tile and details regard
ing them are being withheld.
A belief prevails in official and diplo
matic quarters that tho amount of the
indemnity eventually will be deter
mined by a commission, which may not
arrive at conclusions until aft?r the
war. unless meanwhile Germany should
offer a lump sum. The State Depart
ment has not yet determined whether a
certain sum shall bo paid to the heirs
of each victim, or whether, as in the
case under common law, tho remunera
tion shall be based upon earning ca
pacity of the individual, and the value
of his life to his heirs.
The note ending the negotiations over
the principles, signed by Count von
Bernstorff, opens by referring to the
formal assurances given by Germany
last September that submarines would
not Pink unresisting liners without
proper warning and regard for the
safety of life aboard. It refers to the
long-standing friendly relations be
tween the United States and Germany,
and asserts that the instructions to
submarine commanders were so definite
ns to permit of no misunderstanding.
It then says that the warfaie around
the British Isles was in reprisal for
what Is termed the "inhumane" and
??illegal" blockade measures of Great
Britain to starve the central powers
Into submission.
?;BCO<?.\ 17.ICS 1,1A li 11.IT V
AM) KXPHHSSBS II KliltlOT
Germany. "recognizing liability,"
promises to pay indemnity for the
American lives lost, and expresses "pro
found regret" for their death. The
note says that reprisals should not he
directed at other than enemy subjects,
and that the killing of American citi
zens was unintentionnl.
"In the last portion of the document
Germany expresses readiness to co
operate with tho United States in any
effort looking toward freedom of the
seas.
Diplomats friendly to ? the central
powers regard news dispatches from
Germany Intimating that ruthless sub
marine warfare wnn about to ho re
sumed ns without foundation. Confi
entlal advices from Berlin are under
food to have made it clear lha'l the
probability of the Von Tirpilz element
returning to power was remote.
I TRAVEL BV BOAT TO BALTIMORE.
SAn Ideal water trip J3 60 one way nrd
ah pi Chesapeake tiieamshlp
ojppany.?Adv.
Congress to Adjourn
by End of This Month
\\ \NilIMiTO.\. Aiikiint 0.? A plan
for adjournment of (one rex* by Sep
tember I ?n? norkril ouI by Semite
IvndrrN to-ilny In n nrrlm of confer
ence* occupylnft virtually tlic vrliolr
attention of Senators of liolli parties
mill (rnnnformliiK the opening tiny
of ilchntc on the government uhlp
purchnnc lilll Into n fcplritlruN iIIm-ii.h
nlon II mo iik tlie corporal'* Kiiuril of
iiii-:iiImtm who remained In their
place* In the cluiinhcr.
Ah a rcnult of (he ilii.i'n nili
n en vitn, the Demoern t le MtccrliiU
I'onimlttee nuhmlttcd to the Itcpuh
III'lln lender* In writing >i propoi.nl
that no Iniportuut leicl?lntlon he
tnken up at thin ?e?Klon except the
mIi IpplnKt ri'venne, employer'* 11 n lit I -
I'y npproprlnllon III I In nml con
ferenee report*, with n view to ad
journment liy the end of the prrxenl
moii t li.
-tiemliem of the Republican nteer
'"K commlttee received the propo*nl
fnvornhly, anil It will he rounlilereil
nt n Itepulilleiin eonfereiiee to-nior
row.
Fli CASE OF SUSPECTED
j INFANTILE PWMIS
Health Department Promptly Quar
antines Two-Year-old Douglas
Williamson and Mother.
FINAL DIAGNOSIS IS AWAITKD
Authorities Do Not Regard It Neces
sary to Close North Tvventv-11 rst
Street House, Where Suspect Was
Found?Will He Closely Watched.
Swift action was taken vesten'ny by
[ the Health Depa:i!nent when a case
; i f Fuipectfl infantile paralysis was re
; vrted. Tlie patient, a two-year-old
,foy. and his mother were promptly
removed to the canTagious pavilion li
111'- renr of The f'ny Home, where They
will be held under quarantine pending
( a final diagnosis.
Dr. W. R. Welsiger notified Chief
Health Officer I.cvy that he had a s.i = -
pi' ioiif case under his care ai '?! 0 North
Twenty-first and requested an invest!
; nation. Mr. H. K. Summers. meiMc;'l
I inspector lost no tine in responding,
ami found the snail patb-nt Dour las
Williamson, suffered from a slichi f.?rni
of paralysis. Whether It is poliomy
lidtis was not definitely determined.
Should i? he diagnosed as the disease
which lias aroused New Yor k and o'h-rr
large eastern cities to the most drastic
action, it is certain that it will be of
mild form.
After a consultation with Dr. Levy,
I Dr. Summers directed the removal of
i 'he child and his mother to the con
tagions pavilion and took them there
j in his oiv:i a iiTomobile. Thev wer>*
. given every comfort, and a trained
i nurse was detailed to give the n.ies
j f-at > care. it was not Thought neces
ar to place the house \< here the
hihl lived under quarantine.
< ll\Ni |- OK roNTA(.|(l\
ItKIH < K|> TO .MIX Ml I \r
A -cording to Information furnished
j Dr. Summers, the hoy has been ill for
ten days With his mother he re
i turned from a visit near Hurkeville
i iw .i weeks ago yesterday, and four
j'ia\s later became sick. No alarming
| symptoms were noticed !.> Dr. Weisiger
mtil yesterday, and he immedlatcly
on.mcniiTited with the authorities.
Inquiry showed That since his re.
'urn to Richmond the boy has not
been thrown in contact with other
children, and with very few adults.
Ths fact is regarded by the health
officers as reassuring, reducing to a
minimum the chance of contagion.
, Though the case Is merely being
guarded as a suspicious one, the Health
Department Is not taking any risk,
heing fully aware of the epidemic which
has terrorized cities To the North.
Should the case prove to he poliotny
lelUs. It :s doubtful. It was said,
whether it was contracted In Richmond.
, The only other case of the n alady
. which was found in Richmond was io- j
ported from Philadelphia. It was dls- *
j covered when a physician'was called to!
attend four-year-eld Myra Montgomery.!
who. with her mother, was stopping at
"12 North Thirty-second Street. The
child showed suspicious symptoms
within a few davs after h-?r arrival,
and died shortly afterward. The Thir
I ty-second Street house is still par
| tlally under quarantine, which will bo
i entirely raised probably to-morrow,
i Apparently there is no connecting
Jink between the case of Myra Mont
gomery and that of Douglas William
son
CONKKIIKXI K ?\ I'ARAI.YSIS
TO UK HUM) IX WAS 11 IXtiTOX
W ASHINOTON. August 9.-.-The Pub
lic Health Service to-day asked Slate
health authorities throughout the
country to send representatives to a
conference to be held here on August
I i to discuss means of preventing a
further spread o' infantile paralysis.
Although officials Insist that there
Is no occasion for panic over the pa
ralysis epidemic in New York and other
'Stern States, it is understood the
persistence of the disease in spite of
all efforts of State and Federal offi
cials has aroused the Public Health
Service to the necessity of a determined
and organized fight against it. Plans
for closer co-oporatlon will he worked
out at the conference here.
It was said the meeting had not been
called before there was any fear of a
country-wide epidemic, but authorities
from all the States had been invited
because that was customary in the fre
quent conferences called hv the ser
vice to discuss such subjects.
!>l?. K.MRnSON discusses
METHODS OK TREATMENT
NEW YORK, August 0.?Methods of
serum treatment In cases of Infantile
nnralysis based on scientific principle:.
mhI from which beneficial results have
been obtained, were outlined to-night
by Dr. Haven Emerson, cltv healtl
commissioner.
One of theae methods consists of
using the fluid withdrawn by spinal
(Continued on ficeond rajifeT
IF BOARD FAILS
WILSON WILL ACT
I He May Prove Last Resort to
Save Country From Trade
Paralysis.
MEDIATORS BEGIN TASK
They Hope to Bring Railroads
and Employees to Amic
able Settlement.
NKW Vfif'.K, Aliens' f) If thi>
I nlted Stat-s I:? i-<| ?.f Mediation and
I Conciliation. which was called in to
j 'lay. fails to adjust the differences be
t twcn the railroad? of t}>*? rminlry ami
their -tOO.000 employees. President \V11 -
( SOU will be a ,??(! to 1J f' I) Is personal
, influence t?? avert a c'^nornl strike.
This statement was mailc to-day l>y a
representative of tlx? railroad man-!
( agers. ?lii. ha-.- been negot i.? t i nt ? wit li
the men since Juno i for a peaceful
I settlement
The a p p e' to the President would be
| the last rrsort, and would be takfn
1 only to sa\f the nation from the trade
j paralysis that would follow a strike
of the msen'.iud" planned by the rail
; road men
Late to-nielit efforts '?( the F-V-deral
mediators to bring the contending fac
j tions together were well und'T way.
:-!\ hours after the railroad managers
hart served notb .? on the men that they
would not withdraw their formal re
jection of 11?r- workers' demands and
| had proposed Federal mediation, me
diators an?l '! ?? mi!road managers were
? closeted in .???? session.
I'A N nut hi: di \ |
I \ l>i:u MClll VTION It I I.KS
| \\ hat was 'lis- ussrd at the confer
| - nee could not be dlvulced l.y any of
(those attending !t. under mediation
j rules. but it wa ; understood that the
[railroad representatives outlined their
position in full and indicated how far
th>\v were willing to g . in meeting the
demands of the men. It was reported
that the railroads stood steadfastly for
the main feature of their "contingent
proposition" made at the June confer
ence. which conceded the shorter day.
hut eliminated double compensation for
different classes of services 'luring the
same work day.
It was the failure of the represen
tatives of the railroads and the unions
to agr^e on the double compensation
clause that brought the J vine confer
ence to a sudden end and resulted in
! the strike vote.
The railroad managers, in presenting
' their case to the mediators, were as
J sisted bv three experts on rates and
j wages, J. \V Higgins, former :? ? ? > retary
j "f the Association of Western Itail
i roads; <; Walber. secretary of the
Bureau of Information of the Kastern
Kailroads. and St. Charles P. Neil],
manager .?f the ltureau "f Information
of the Southeastern Hallways
To-morrow, it was announced by
[ \V Hanger, a member of the board, the
j mediators will hear the railroad em
ployees" side of the disc. Then the
j board will hold alternate* conferences
I with the opposing forces, Mr. Hanger
j said. When a basis for an understand
I ing has been reached, the railroads and
men will l>e asked separately if they
desire to place their case in the me
diators* hands for final adjustment. If
the answer is the alllrmative, the con
tending forces will have t? abide by the
decision of the board.
ACt'KI'TA \TK OF PltOFPFIt
IS MIT <> Hl.liiA TO It V
It was pointed out by Mr. Hanger,
however, that acceptance of the board's
proffer of services is not obligatory
on either side, and if the brotherhoods
| refuse to accept the good otlices of the
mediators in reaching a settlement, the
situation will stand just as it was be
fore the mediators stepped in. A. It.
Garretson. president of the railroad
I conductors, and official spokesman for
! the men, said that unless the railroads
! made satisfactory concessions, the men
' would refuse to bind themselves to
Federal mediation, atul unless some
thing else intervened. the general
j strike order would be enforced.
| i n i)is<;i isi;i> i?i:i,ii;f
FUl.T IX WASIII VOTO.N
WASIHNV.TON, l?. <\. August 0.?
Word that the services of the Federal
mediation board had been accepted to
day in the threatened strike of 400,000
railroad employees was received with
undisguised relief by administration
officials here.
The members of the board, with
Secretary Wilson, went, to New York
I with directions from President Wilson
to do everything possible to avert a
strike. They wore instructed to keep
the White House fully informed of
' every development, localizing the seri
ous situation which would confront the
country should a strike occur, it is
understood the President is ready to
exercise all the authority he possesses
to bring the employees and employers
into agreement.
The success of previous efforts of
the mediation board in averting strikes
on railroads has led Mr. Wilson to ex
pect confident ly that there would he no
walk-out in the present instance. ||t<
has been prepared, however, to send a
personal message to the managers and
workers, or to summons representatives
of the two sides to the White House. |
OFFICERS ARE DRAFTED
Second bleu tenant* From Virginia and
Other Slate* Tabcn Over by
Itegnlar Army.
RROWNSVIUjE, T15X.. August 0.?
The first step In the drafting of second
lieutenants from the National Guard
into the regular army was taken here
o-day. when General Parker Issued an
rder attaching llfty-six second Ilen
cn&ntn in tho National Guard rcgl
icnts to regular regiments. The lieu
tenants named are from Virginia, Iowa,
Illinois, Indiana, Nebraska, Texas,
*,oulsiand, Oklahoma, North and South
, Dakota.
:'v(???...,!?.
iiiisia.;
DURAND FORCED j
TO QUIT OFFICE
Former Director of Census Says
He Did Not Resign
Willingly.
HUGHES READS HIS LETTER
Republican Nominee Seeks to
Back Up His Charge Against
Administration.
MINNKAPOMS. August ?Charles
FT. Il'iirhf1?, replvlnn tr? Secretary Hoil
field's tflrcrarn denying th.it 10. Dana
Duraml was forced out of office as
director of the census, to-day read to
n. largo audience here a letter from
Mr. Dura ml, hi which Mr. Dtirand said
that he bad toll! ?{. .in.-ld ho would
resign. hut wan to. I t.. remain. and that
lledfield replied th.it tV;administration
had decided on a change.
Mr. Dtirand's letter. road by tho He- !
publican nominee fur President In tho
course of an open-air spepch at the
parade grounds lie.re, was, in part, aa
follows:
"Inasmuch as the truth of your .state
ment with regard to t!.o change in tho
'directorship of the ?ensus has boon
! '?haliengod, I think it is only fair to
i you that i should make this statement.
My resignation as director was dis
tinctly a forced resignation. At the
first conversation I hail with Secretary
' lledfield 1 told him that 1 would re
? siirn, but that I hoped 1 would be per
| mitted to remain. Hi- at once told me
: that tho administration had decided
1 that it wanted to make a ehamre. I
i believe 'to create a varan ?>" were his
words. The next that I heard of it
was an announcement in the press that
j my successor had been named, and T
j .it once wrote out my resignation."
Mr. Durand is connected with the
Minnesota school of agriculture.
HIOI'IOATS Ml* <II\U?.I>
\S TO ? ?t \ST M'UVKl
Mr. Hugh* s then repeated bis De
troit d? daration with reference to the
displacement of "an eminent scientist"
in tho Coast and Geodetic Survey ny "an
excellent stork breeder and veterinary
surgeon."
"lOxceptlon also has been taken I y
the distinguished secretary with re
gard to that man," tho nominee con
tinued. "Now, I am not in a posi
tion to state of my knowledge the cir
cumstances with refsrenco to the re
tirement of the eminent scientist, who
occupied the important place, hut If I
may assume that he retired voluntarily,
my point Is not so much the retire
ment of the man who went, but the
character of the man by whom he was
-u.:i ? eded.
"I am now told that Mr. Jones, who
suci-e :-deil him. was promoted alter bo -
mu' deputy commissioner of fisheries. I
I'.ut he was appointed ?o that place also j
involving the need of technical skill j
j ami training, by this auministration.
. !!? went there from,his stock farm and j
took charge of the bureau."
! vs-aii.s AiniiMvrinTiox
I'Olt I'll 101'A It 101 >V I0SS I'OI.IfY :
ST. PAfL, Minn.. August ?>.?-Charles I
13. Hughes, speaking to-night in the
luditcrium here. . > aile.i the admin- 1
is't.ition for its p ???pareduess policy,
which he declare I inadequate; assert
ed that he resrcrl d "reasoiiable pre
paredness a prlte irv duty." and pur
posed if elected "to see that it is dis
rhargod to the credit of the American
people."
"We are ,i spirited people*" .Mr.
Hughes declared. 'We are n people that \
can protect ourselves. We are not too
pround to fight."
'dtich of the nominee's address was j
devoted to the Mexican situation, and
the culling of tie National Guard to
service on the border There had been
warnings for two years that America
should be prepared. Mr. Hughes said,
yet when the time came to put an army
; on the border, "to do police sor\ ice"
I there was present- I "a spectacle show
! ing inefficiency of the first magnitude."
The administrations embargo on
? arms to Mexico \v; s criticized as "fast
| and loose no poli, .?.
WAR LEADS TO ABSTINENCE
Secretary Danielx Points to f .cvson*
l.earneil Again*) Ktll.sof Strong
Drink.
W AS111 N"< iT< >\. August f'.?The iOu
ropfan war has given impetus to tho
movement toward abstinence. Secretary .
Daniels, of the navy, said to-niglit In
an address at the forty-sixth annual j
meeting of the < *.i t h ? >! i<- Total Abstin
ence Society of America. He ex- !
pressed hope and belief that "the day
is coming when total abstinence will
prevail in America."
Referring indirectly to the navy order
abolishing the officers' wine mess. Mr.
Daniels said that railroad engineers
hold the lives of passengers in the
hollow of their hand, and that rail-;
roads have established clubhouses for
t hem.
"What say you. with your railroad
tickets in your pocket," lie asked, "to i
a proposition that the railroads should !
issue an order that tho engineers off
duty at those clubhouses should be j
allowed to establish a wine mess of j
their own? Would you not demand j
[an order abolishing such an arrange
men t ?"
. "The most powerful argument to
day for accession to the ranks of total
abstainers Is war," Mr. Daniels said.
"The Russians and the French have in
this war set an example in total
abstinence that iH unparalleled. The
example of crowned heads, great ad
mirals and generals who. because they
feej the necessity of cool huads and
steady nerves, have Joined the ranks
of total uhstalnors gives a mighty im
pulse to >\>ur own anil all like organ
izations seeking tho only way to the
highest efficiency In pouco and In war."
k ? . ''
Many Persons Drown,
Towns Are Destroyed
and 5,000 Homeless
Perhaps 150 Dead and
$1,000,000 Property
Loss When Cloudburst
Sweeps Valleys.
<*11 .\R|,KST< >N. \V. VA . AhbusI A j
loiidhurst swept (in* Cabin I'rPtU ami
i ?<?;?l River v.. Hoys to-day. spreading
devastation J hrouehout the district.
\d\ieos to-night wore meatier. ov/int ti
interrupted wire :ni<l i*;ti 1 conimunica
tion. but various reports estimated the
lovs of life at from eleven to 15" per
sons. Ti e property d;im;iRe was plated
at not less than ?1.0 Mi.non. Five thou
sand *neople are said to !>e homeless.
Two companies of the Second Regi
ment, West Yiruinin National (Juard,
encamped at Kanawha city. near her*?,
to-night were oruered to ttie Mood zone
with tents and supplies by ("Jovernor
Hatfield. Relif f trains are being made
up here and will depart within a few
| hours Loral officials- of the Virginitn
I |tower Company assorted that the loss
I of 11 f?? would reach l.'O.
; st oitr.s of iiocsks
SWKPT l)tl\V\ STUKAMS
Kleven bodies have so far heen re
covered, three at Cabin Creek .tunc
tion and ejirht at Dry Branch. Soores
of houses liave been swept down the
two streams, which, swollen by heavy
rains, overflowed their banks, carrying:
everything before them.
More than thirty houses were count
ed pa?"?ine fine point in Cabin Creek
; to-riay. Many of the houses crashed
j.into the piers of the Chesapeake arid
i Ohio itailroad bridge, which h;*d been
! washeii mit earlier, and were demol
ished. I.ate to-day a hoy war. s->en on
to| of one cif the houses. An effort
to rescue him failed, and he disap
peared in the water.
A large bridge on the line of the
| .'h:\rleston Interurban Railroad was
washed awa> under Cabin Creek June
; tion.
The damage to railroads, coal, oil and
i gas properties throughout the district
| is especially heavy. Practically every
I coal operation, as well as the plant and
lines of the Virginia Power Company
are idle.
St \ |).\ V S< 'II (Mil, KXCrilSlOV
TRAIN IS M A HO O.N 10 D
Two passeuirer trains, one of which is
a Sunday school excursion train carry
ing 300 persons, are marooned near St.
Albans, and efforts to reach them have
fa iled.
(iovcrnor Hatfield hurriedly returned
to-night from i lutit'ngtou. w here In
had gone to attend the Republican State
Convention to-morrow, and will lake
charge of the relief work.
Indescribable conditions exist on
Cabin Creek, at the mouth of which
forty or fifty ruined houses have been
dashed to pieces I.ootinir had begun
nmotig the ruins early in the evening.
Special agents of the Chesapeake and
<">hio Railway were endeavoring to
handle the situation, which was con
stantly becoming more difficult.
A telephone message from Cabin
, Creek at 10:30 o'clock to-night from
I Howard C. Smith, chief of the special
agents on duty in the stricken district,
I was to the effect that at that time the
I rescuers had been able to penetrate
as far as Miami, six miles from the
[ mouth of the creek
I Kverything up to that point was in
ruins, and the situation was growing
i worse as the workers advanced toward
the headwaters. The town of Acme
was the scene of the worst destruction
and loss of life. < >thor towns known
to have been practically destroyed on
this creek were Rondv. Miami, Sharon,
I)awis, Kayford and Kskdale.
Seven families are known to be miss
ing at Kskdale.
('OA I# HIVF.H CONDITIONS
I.ITTI.K. IF V \ V. nKTTr.lt
Information received at the oflice of
the general superintendent of the
Chesapeake and Ohio here to-night
indicated that conditions on Coal River
were lit 11 o. if any, better titan those
fin Cabin Creek. Indirect communica
tion from Madison In the afternoon in
dicated great property damaue. hut no
loss of life there. A local freight train
of the Coal River division of the I
Chesapeake and Ohio was washed away, i
including three box cars of tnerehan- I
dise and eleven empty coal cars. Only j
the locomotive remained on the tracks j
Members of the crew saved their lives'
bv swimming to higher ground.
TO Pl.AN METHODIST UNION
ltoanl Name* Commission From South- j
rrn ( Imrcli l/? Meet With Similar |
Ilody From Northern.
KNOXVILLK. TKN.V.. August 0.?I
Twenty-five representatives of the I
Southern Methodist Church to-day were j
appointed to meet with a like number j
from Northern Methodist bodies and
agree on a plan of union for the tvvo:
denominations, the appointments being j
made by a board o( three bi.-hops, three'
ministers and three la* men who met;
at Tate Springs.
The personnel of the commission will J
not be made public until acceptances j
have been received from all. A number ,
of alternates were named, who will j
take place of any original appointees j
not able to serve. IMshop A. \V. Wil- j
son presided to-day, the other members
of the board being Bishop Collins
I Penny, Rishop K. K. Hoss, Rev. .1. M.
j Moore, 1>. !?>., of Nashville; Rev. W. J.
Young, I>. 1>.. of Atlanta; Rev. 1?\ II.
Thomas, I). D., of Louisville; II. M.
I Snyder, of Spartanburg, S. C.; M I-.
I Walton, of Woodstaff. Va., and Prank
Met!hee Maddin. of Nashville.
The commissions from the two de
nominations are expected to draw tip
ja plan for uniting, which will he passed
on at the respective conventions in
11918.
1 rcaty With Denmark
Now in Hands of Senate
\\ \->ll I NliTOV, \ilKll?t ?.?Presi
dent \\ IImiii to-dny Ni'iil to the Sen
ate the trenty with Denmark for flic
I'I'imIiiii of tlx- llniiisli U est IiiiIIon to
tlir I nitoil States. Tilt* a?
IniS li-ttfr from inilim Secretary of
Male I''rank 1.. Polk Nlnlrw tltnt "the
Daoioli Knvrrnilirnl li?? rei|llCNtoil
tliot |* it 1*1 i ?-l t j of the tenon of tlic
fiinvt'nllon lie withheld until such
time a* the inn Ruvrrniiirnlx slmll
tiltrrr to promii)K?tr tliem.**
The state Department. therefore,
rerommrnils thnf, even when rillilled.
the te%t of the treaty sluill not l<e
made pultlic until the luo govern
ments iiKree to <lo aw.
BEicBmiilicus
ON REVENUE MEASURE
Senators To-Night Will Consider
Amendments to Utilise
Hill.
AI'PROVK STAMP TAX PLAN
Finnnce Committee Adds More
Levies?Revision of Schedule of
Wines Also Determined I'pon?No
Decision on Munitions.
WAS111 NO TON", Alls-list 3.?Scnatn
Democrats will meet In caucus to
morrow night to consider Finn nee Com
mittee amendments to the House reve
nue bill, including; the proposal to
reduce the income tax exemption, the
proposed increases in the tax on large
Inheritances, ranging up to 10 per cent
on estates of $.j,0OO,0 in, and a proposal
agreed to to-night to continue in effect
many of the present stamp taxes.
The Finance Committee voted ap
proval of the stamp tax proposal after
an all-day discussion, and added to the
House hill the following stamp taxes:
Bonds, debentures and certificates of
indebtedness, a tax of 5 cents on each
$100 of face value. Kxpress and freight
receipts, 1 cent each. Telegraph and
telephone messages, 1 cent for each
message for which a charge of la cents
or more is made, Custom-house entries
not exceeding $."i00, r,o rents each; ex
ceeding $500. ji. Insurance policies.
I cent on each $1, or fraction, of
amount of premium charged. Foreign
steamship tickets, if costing not to
exceed $150, $i; not exceeding $??". S3",
more than $?*>?*. $?">; all tickets costing
$10 or U-.ss t-> lx? exempt from taxa
tion. and Cullman car tickets, 2 cents
each, an increase from 1 cent In exist
ing law.
The committee also decided to retain
the existing tax of $5 for each bowling
alley or billiard table, and amended so
that It will apply to clubs and private
places, instead of exclusively to public
places.
liKXIKION OK WIM-: T\\
SCIIKDl I.K IS 11>I0I> I I'lIX
Revision of the wine tax schedule
a-lso was determined upon, the com
mittee increasing the proposed tax of
10 cents a gallon on grape brandy or
wine spirits used in fortification of
wines to !?;"> ecnts a gallon. A tax of
S cents a gallon upon all still wines
was proposed as a substitute for House
rates, ranging from 4 cents to 25 cents
a gallon on wines containing from 14
to 24 per cent alcohol. On Champagnes
and wines the committee retained the
House proposal of a .'{-cent tax on o:i' b
half pint, but Increased the proposed
tax of 1 cent to 'Z\<s cents on each half
pint of artificially carbonated wine.
The committee was unable to roach
a conclusion on the troublesome muni
tion tax, and will resume deliberation
of that subject to-morrow.
ANNOUNCE THIRD MAN TO-DAY
I.mie n ml llriniilelft Already ('lumen an
Members of Mexican < om
iiiImnIoii.
WASHINGTON. August 0. -White
House oflicials expect to announce to
morrow the name of the third man
chosen by President Wilson to serve
with Secretary l.ane. of tin* Interior
I >epa rt men t. and Associate Justice
Itraiuleis, of the Supreme Court, on
the joint commission which will strive
for a settlement of border dispute be
tween the United Stales and Mexico.
Acting Secretary I'olk announced the
acceptance of the commission plan to
day after fillseo A rrcdondo, Mexican
ambassador-designate, had given posi
tive assurances that his government'
was not desirous of limiting the scope
of the proposed discussion.
Decisions of the committee will not
be binding upon either government
until ratified by both President Wilson
and (ieneral Carranza.
IN FATAL COLLISION
Tralnx on Southern Crash liend-Oit,
and KiikI lifer Is
Killed.
I'llOSSWEI.li, S. C.. August 9.?-.1. n
Harris, engineer of a southbound local
passenger train on the Southern Kail
nay. was killed and a few passengers
were slightly hurt here to-day when i
northbound freight cjjiahcd !iead-<>n
with the passenger train, which was
standing at the station. Trainmen on
the freight said that the brakes became
deranged, and prevented them from
stopping- th^ train before the collision.
?
ITALIANSORIVE
Thcv Take 10,000 Prisoners
and Capture Quantities
of War Suppl ics.
VICTORIOUS ROMANS
PURSUING BEATEN FOE
Their Splendid Victory Opens
Door for Advance on
T riestc.
K.NKMV'S UOl T IS <T?fn<KT!?
Allies Mihik Somnio anil Russians
In Kast Cnntiiuin to
I?ush Ahead.
U)NPnN', August Th?* vigorous
offensive of the entente allies on the
French. Galician ;ui?l Italian fronts still
is being waned with important suc
cesses. In Austria the Italians havo
captured the city of Gorizia. twenty
two miles northwest of Trieste: in
Galleia the Russians in quest of l.cni
berg have further carrkd out their en
deavors toward She capture of Stan
islau from the Austro-?icniian forces,
while in Franc** the French ami British
forces in the Sonune region havo at*
taiked and won additional points of
vantage from the Germans.
ITALIANS .NOW SI A A
PASS OV TO TRIKSTFi
The capture of Gorizia seemlnsrly Is
as important a uain by the entente
.illies as has yet been attained in their
present synchronous offensive, the city
being the door through which the Ital
ians may now pass in an endeavor to
carry out their long cherished Idea of
I capturing Trieste. Austria's bis? sea
port at the head of the Adriatic Sea. In
tin* fall of Gorizia. in which Home says
the Auslrians were completely routed,
the Italians inflicted. heavy casualties,
I took more than 10,000 men prisoner
land captured considerable quantities
. of war requisites.
The Russian General Letchitzky has
driven his wedge further Into the Aus
tro-German line near Stanislau. cap
turing positions eight miles east of
that important city through which the
! railroad leads to Lienibcrg and the town
! of Tysnilenltsa. Xortheast of . Tys
mienitsa the Russians have crossed the
| right hank of (he Koropice River and
I captured a number of important posi
tions west of Velesnioup and south
i ward along the Xizinioff-Monasterzyka
. Railroad, making the Russian menace
against llalicz greater To the south
! of Tysmienltsa the Russian advance has
| reached to Stokvnhela.
Berlin admits the retirement of tho
Austro-(!erman forces behind the Xiz
niotT-Tysmieiiitsa-i utynia line, but siys
j that in the t'arpathiau region help-tits
held by the Russian**, near Jahlonltsn.
and \oiocht ami west of Tararov wero
laptured by the Germans and that
strong Russian attacks in the Delatyn
district were repulsed
(?I'.'It.HA.VS IM S 111-:I> HACK
OX 'Jon-YAUIJ FHO.VT
North of the Somtue River, in France,
the Australians have pushed back the
Germans near 1 'ozieres JOn yarns over
i" front of fi?0 yards, while the French
have driven out the Germans from a
trench recently captured from them
north of the Hem road and reoccupied
In the Verdun sector heavy artil
lery activity is in progress at Thiau
mont, I'leury, Vaux-Chapitre and
Chenols
Constantinople reports and Petrograd
admits that the Turks have recaptured
the towns of Ritlis and Mush, in Turk
ish Armenia, but Petrograd says ob
stinate tight hi* is still going on in thia
region.
I ITALIANS AUK I'IMIIM;
l?i:i'IV\Ti:t) At STRIANS
j I Specin 1 t'alde to The Times-Mispr tch. ]
I Rt?.\u:, August The flag of Italy
jto-night flies over the city of Gorizia.
while from the loftv heights which rise
j tip from the Isonzo Valley the same
I banner is floating. Italian troops
J entered Gorizia this morning, making
'lie first concrete step in the campaign
against 1 rieste and the extension of
the Italian borders once more to in -
j dude Hi,* long - mourned irredentist
provinces.
i Io-niglit large bodies of Italian cav
| airy, infantry and I'ersaglieri on
bicycles are pursuing the defeated
A list ria ii.". More than 1 K'b)0 prisoners
have been brought in. The losses in
dead and wounded are described as
enormous \\ hole lines of Austrian
trenches were found choked with
bodies, according to news from the
front.
CAPTt iti-: of < ri \ follows
iivtili: OF Til it kk i> vvs
The capture of Gorizia followed a
j furious battle of thr lays in which
'the concentrated Are of the ItnL'an
i artillery shattered the powerful bridge
head position.-, of the Au-trians on '.ho
: western hank of the Isonzo, forcing a
! retirement from the river lino.
! The. campaign for the cit> has cov
. ered a period of more than a year,
j during which time the lighting of trior*)
I or less violence was practically con*
? tinuous.
Goii/.ia is in a basin surroui led on
| three > idea by lowering mount a i t\s.
The Italian adviince ii;> the slopes of
these superb natural defenses was
naturally tedious and slow.
First word of the capture of Goriz'a.
which has sent Home and all Italy into
a frenzy of patriotic joy, wan con
tained in a short Jiulleim issued this
i morning at the Win oflice
"This morning our troops entered
the town of Goriziti," were iho words
that brought to full staff every flag In
Rome.
The city to-night it a wild juiul/lo
