ARIZONA REFIT
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTn YEAB
8 PAGES
PHOENIX,ARIZONA, THURSDAY M0HN1NG, AUGUST 10, ;916
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 84
TH
ICAN
HFORTAN
ED'
HEN
n?min n tt tt nmn
lN J A JI,.J,.L!U
11
4&
VieQRQUSQFFENStWEAL0N6
THREE FRDHTS IS REWARDED
-, M ADD1TI0NALVIGTOR1ES
.J ' ,
(By Republican Associated
The vigorous offensive of the entente allies on the French, Galician and
Italian fronts, is still being rewarded with important successes. In Austria,
the Italians have captured the city of Gorizia, 22 miles northwest of Triest;
in Galicia, the Russians in quest of Lemberg, have further carried out their
endeavors toward the capture of Stanislau from the Austro-Germans, while
in Franca, the French and British forces in the Somme region have attacked
and captured additional points of advantage from the Germans.
The capture of Gorizia by the Italians, seemingly is as important as the
gains by the allies obtained in the recent synchronous offensive, the city
being the door through which the Italians may now pass in an endeavor to
carry out their long cherished idea of capturing Triest, Austria's big sea port,
at the head of the Adriatic sea.
In the fall of Gorizia, in which Rome says the Austrians were com
pletely routed, the Italians inflicted heavy casualties on its defenders, too',
mere than 10,000 men prisoners and captured considerable quantities of war
requisites.
The Russian general, Letchizky has driven hie wedge further into the
Auttro-German line near Stanislau, capturinq eight miles of that important
city through which the railroads leads to Lemberg, the town of Tysmienitsa.
Northeast of Tysmienitsa, the Russians have crossed the right bank of the
Koropice river and captured a number of important positions west of Veles-
nioup and southward along the Niznioff-Monasterzyka railroad, making the
Russian menace against Halicz greater. To the south of Tysmienitsa, the
Russian advance has reached to Stokovoheia.
Berlin admits the retirement of the Austro-Germans behind the Niznioff
Tysmienitsa, Ottynia line, but says that in the Carpathian region, heights
held by the Russians near Jablonitsa and Vorocht and west of Tararov were
captured by the Germans and that strong Russian attacks in the Delatyn dis
trict were repulsed.
North of the Somme river in France, the Australians have pushed back
the Germans' near Pozieres two hundred yards over a front of six hundred
yards, while the French hsve driven out the Germans from a trench recently
captured from them north of the Hem wood and reoccupied it. In the Verdun
sector, heavy artillery activity is in progress, near Fleury, Vaux-Chapitre and
Chenois.
Constantinople reports and Petrograd admits that the Turks have re
captured the towns of Bitlis and Mush, in Turkish Armenia, but Petrograd
says obstinate fighting is still going on in this region.
Austrian Subsea
Craft Is Sunk By
French Destroyer
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire .
Ii.NDiiX, Auk. 9. "A French tor
Vedo boat destroyer torpedoed an
Austrian submarine Tuesday north of
the -Mann1 of Corfu.' says a dispatch
1o the Kxchange Telegraph company
from AthenH. "It in considered cer
tain," it nays, "that the submarine
bank with the crew."
An official dispatch form Berlin, ac
cording to Reutcr's Amsterdam cor
respondent, nays that between July 31
and August 1 one German submarine
sank in the North Hea thirteen British
Fleam trawlers and one British gov
ernment coal steamer.
Bombardment Diminished
PARIS, Aug. 9. A dispatch to La
Liberie, dated north of France, fol
lows: "The intense bombardment going on
on "the Somme front has been dimin
ished slightly north of the river in
order to permit the Franco-British
troops to carry out a Joint action,
which, although not yet finished,
already has given very satisfactory re
sults, tin the other hand, south of
the Nomine, batteries of all caliber
continue unceasingly their methodical
destruction of the enemy works, and
at the same time French lung-rang
guns are hindering greatly German
revictuating and are bombarding their
rear communications. Aeroplanes are
successfully raiding the principal rail
mad Htations and causing heavy dam
age." .
A Ha van dispatch from Rome s.';s
the Italian flag now flic over t"-e de
fenses of Gorizia. After three days
if violent fighting, in which the cav
alry wan. f nally brought uf- to rein
force the Infantry, all the defensive
works of the city which bad resistel
he advance of the Italians fell In'.o
their hands.
Reports show, , the correspondent
S
rf
i Republican A. P. Leased Wire j
CHICAGO, Aug. 9. Giant crop j
losses in the United State and Can-1
ada sent tbo wheat market today
nearly straight skyward. At one time
the ascent of prices amounted to 11 c
a bushel. Trading closed In a whirl
of excitement, showing net gains of
ic to llc, with the September
option at $1.44 to 1.44Vi. and with
December at tl 48 to $1.48. '
Something of the strain Involved and
of the far-reaching consequences may
be realized from the fact that, accord
ing to the, United States government
crop report, which was the principal
cause of today's excitement, the do
mestic yield of wheat for 1918 fill be
358,000,000 bushels smaller than was
the case last year. No-such shortage
had been foreseen even by the gloom
iest prophets. Black rust spreading In
Canada and indicating that the crop
there would- be cut down 136,000,000
bushels from the 1915 total, made the
situation still more acute, as the
United States and Canada have been
furnishing six-sevenths of the world's
breadstuff supplies to the countries
that In the face of war difficulties
have still been able to import.
The biggest Jump In prices today
came right at the outset, exactly 8c
a bushel over night. Strenuous ef
forts to buy cleared the market at In
tervals almost completely bare of of
ferings, and forced the market higher
and higher until the May delivery had
touched $1.S3V, R price Just UViC
under the topmost level on record in
the violent fluctuations of the first
year of the European war.
HV LOSSES SEUEAT
MIT
Press Leased Wire)
says, that the retreating Austrians
are pnw being pursued by Italian
cavalry. -
1 lie success of the Italians has
created an immense Impression
throughout the country. Rome. Flor
ence, Bologna and Milan are decked
with flags and demonstrations are
being held by great thrones
The offensive against Gorizia has
l-een planned for the t-pilnK but was
dc'ayed by the Austrian attack in the
Trentino region. Its prosecution now
is part of the steady- pressure which
th entente i.llies are exerting on va
rious fronts and the taking of the
itcfensos of Gorizia is regarded in
Hume, the dispatch says, as merety
preliminary to an extensive movement
r'eainst the Austrian eastern wins.
wM h some observers believe nvtjr
eventually prove a serious menace to
Vienna.
fhe Rome dinatch ravr. the l'al
Lm nrtillery dislodged the Austrians
pfter which Italinn Infantry rushed
two successive Austrian lines of de
fense. Italian reinforcement were
roured in steadily from an under
ground pasie which had been dui
to within fixtv feet of the Austrian
side. The Italian infantrv advance-'
ro rapidly that tl-e Austrian artillery
continued to shell positions from
hich tee Italians had anvance'd some
time before.
fine of the surnrises if the al'nc'
vns the use made by the Italians of a
nw instrument hv which large bombs
were burled with fearful effect. Some
of these bombs tore wire entangle
ments and pulverizfd trenches open
Inir breaches through which infantry
and cavalry were able to pass freely.
Gorizia Is Occupied
ROME. Aug.. 9. (via London).
Italian trois entered the Austrian
cit" of Gorizia this morning, th vsr
i Mice annoumed todav. Thus far
lii.'iOO Austrians have im-'mi captured.
Tbe statein-nt follows:
Yesterday morning in the Gotlzla
.'rji. after r.- art III rr ptfpara
iion ur ln:tiry completJi o"cnpa
ti'.n of the hi-'ghi.' west o the town,
dnv m: out ih . last rema r-iog hostile
,1' l:i.-rm.ptM Vri nches a:id dr.Kouts
wer" found f jll of the Ivrt'eM of Amh-
(Continued on Page Two)
Foreign buying on a huge scale ap
parently had much to do with the ex
treme prices 1 nthe last hour of to
day's session. It was estimated that
export business today totalled l,a00,000
nusneiH for immediate shipment.
Gossip of big Individual profits
gained by the sudden rise in the mar
ket were extremely Indefinite. The
best ground for guesses was the cir
cumstance that since July 31 the prin
cipal options of wheat here have risen
more than 23c a bushel.
Si
Believe Serum Treatment
Cures Infantile Paralysis
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NE WYORK, Aug. 9. Methods - of
ferum treatment in cases of infantile
paralysis based on scientific principles
and from which beneficial results
werc obtained, were outlined tonight
by Dr. Haven Emerson, city health
commissioner.
fine of these methods, the commls -
sloner stated, consists of using the anti-bodies which also will aid in ov
fluld withdrawn bv spinal puncture i ercoming Infection. The new high
and r -Injected snbcutaneously or In- I record of !i7 deaths today reunited in
trami'scularl in:o the same patient. ! a decision to postpone the opening of
Another method Is spinal injections of i th? public schools ret for September
blood serum - derived from persons 11. Officials of the board of educa
whu have recovered from th-? disease. Hon and the department of henlt'i
The first treatment discovered by said tonight it might be October 1
the commissioner is one of "active before the schools were opened and
immunisation" is based in the as-' possibly- November 1 . .
Hughes Refutes Redfield's Charges Of Misstatements
& J& j& & r jr
FEDERAL
n-
T'
MIDDLE WEST BELIEVES
HUGHES BE ELECTED
I
I
i
I (Special to The Republican
i CHICAGO. Aug. i. (Delayed In
! transmission) There waa mon-
I ster Hughes meeting heHF tonight, i
I Ten thousai.d people heard the ;
' presidential candidate pledge pio-
tection for American lives and
' property In foreign countries, if !
j elected. The enthusiasm was un- j
: bounded. The slogan was "The
j American flag must remain un- j
j sullied and the American name
I honored throughout the world." I
I The consensus of opinion ir. the '
I middle west is that Hitches will I
h elected. I !
(Signed) BWrON OK h.. I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHARLESTON. W. Va.. Atg., 9.
A cloudburst swept the Cabin creel;
and Coal river valleys today spread
ing devastation throughout the district-
Advices tonight were meagre.
Hut 1'urmnia reitnriu oHlimulnH the lust.
cf lire at from II to 150 persons. I
rho n,nin,. rt im-.a wM 0,1 urt
X
l,
MM LOST IN
III! I 111! 1:1
WEST VIRGINIA
aot less than one million dollars. Two!Pn,e roulf divulged by any of
companies of West Virginia national ! th"w "tending it. under the media
guard tonight were ordered to the
flood zone wi'n tents and supplies bv
Governor H. D. Hatfield. Relit!
trains are being made up here and will
depart within a few hours.
i:ie.-en bodies have so far been re- i
covered, three at Cabin creek Junc
tion and eight at Dry Branch. Scores
of houses have been swept down the
Iwc streams.
Two passenger trains, one of which
is a Sundav school excursion train
(.trying persons, are marooned
near St. Albans and efforts to reach
them have failed.
The town of Acme was the scene of
the worm destruction and loss of life.
The following towns were all heavi
ly damaged bv the floods: Ronda
ilinml. Sharon, Dawes. Kavford nd
E-kdale. Reports indicate that con
ditions along the Coal river are
equally serious.
A leport received here late tonight
said that the passengers of the ex
cursicn train fled to the hilla in
rafety when the water reached the
floor of the railway coaches. Advicei
received lnte tonight indicated thai
more than 60 persons lout their livei
l.etwer Acme ann Kuyford. At
Ronda. bewteen in and r0 houses
htii'B tmtitari iti fi tti unk rf duViriu At
! htklcv seven D'-rsons were drowned
in one house.
Gcve'nor Turries To Scene
HUNTINGTON. W. Va., Aug.. 9.--Governor
Hatfield who arrived here
today to attend the t-.tate republican
convention tonight, ordered special
relief trains to the Coal river and
Cabin creek llstriits where, accord
ing to reports, more than 100 hav.i
been drowned and 5,000 made home-Ics-.
Two companies of second regi
ment Vest Virginia natior.al guard
have been ordered with tents to the
flooded districts. So serious Is the I
situation that Governor Hatfield lefft
he city tonight to go to the scene of
le devastation.
t
th
DELAWARE OOARANTINe
. ?IS!SI1Y3
Republican A. . Leased Wirej
WILMINGTON, Del., Aug. 9. The
Delaware state board of health at a
meeting today declared an immediate
quarantine applying to children under
IB years, against Pennsylvania, New
Jersey and New York.
: n
I HEAT VICTIMS BODIES
! TO POTTER'S FIELD
CHICAGO, Aug. 9. Seventy-one I
I bodies will go to the potter's field 1
from the county morgue, all vie-
tims of the recent heat wave that I
has enveloped Chicago for the1 past
few days. Some were buried to
day, and the others will be taken
I to the potter's field tomorrow. The
dead are, in the great part, friend
less and unclaimed. They have
I left behind names and little else.
I A few are the head of families too
poor to assume the cost of burial.
sumption that tho spinal fluid taken
from the patient contains the virus of
the disease which, when injected sub
cutaneously or intramuscularly will
stimulate the production of anti-
bodies which will aid In overcoming
the infection.
The Wood serum derived from con
, valescents. he pointed out. contains
BOARD
II. s.
T
T
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NFW YORK. Aug., it If the Vnit-
led States board of mediation and con
ciliation, which was called in today
to adjust the differences between tht
railroads or tlie country arid tneir
40(1,000 employes fails. President VVil
son will lie asked to use his personal
Influence lo avert a general strike.
This ytatement was made today by a
lepieKent itive of the railroad mana
gers which have been conferring with
their employes since June.
I-ate tonight efforts of the federal
mediators to bring the contending
tactions together were well under
way. Six hours after the railroad
managers had served notice on the
men that thev would not withdraw
their formal rejection of the workers
demands and had proposed federal
mediation, the mediators and the man
agers were closeted in secret session.
Mediation was suggestion in lieu of
arbitration under the New-lands act
or by the interstate commerce com
mission proposals, which had been re-
fu!?.d bV tne
rotherhoods.
v nai was niscussea at tne conrer-
tion ruies. urn ii was unoersiooa mat
the railroad representatives outlined
their posit'on in full and Indicated
how far they were willing to go in
meeting the demands of the men. It
" vnia mat me ranri ads stood
Meetnasi v ror ine nviin Tnaiura ,.r
tneir crrtmgent proposition" made
at th" June conference, which con
ceded the fhcrter day but eliminated
double compensation fur different
lasses of services during the same
work d.iv.
It was the failure of the representa
tives of the railroads and the unions
to agree on the double compensation
I clause that brought the June cimler-
I enee to a sudden end and renlr.l iii
the str:l'e vote.
The railroad managers. In present
ing their case to the mediators, wort
assisted bv three experts on wages
and rates, J. W. Higgins, former sec
retary of the association of western
railroads; o, G. Walber, secretary of
the bureau of information of the ea-st-rn
railways, and St. Charles P. Neill,
manager of the bureau of Information
cf the southeastern railways.
Tomorrow, it was announced by G.
V. W. Hanger, a member of the
board, the mediators will hear the
raurnau employes sine or trie case.
Then the board will hold alternate
conferences with the opposing forces.
Mr. Hantrer said. When a basis for
an until rst andlng has been reached,
the mil roads ami men will be sepa
rately nked if they desire to place
ibeir ense in the hands or the board
tor final adjudication. If the answer
is In the a fili-mat ie, the contending
forces -vill have to abide by the de
islon of the board.
It was pointed out by Mr. Hunger,
howver. that acceptance of the
hoard 8 proffer of services is not obli
gatory on "i:het side, and if the
brotherhoods refuse to accept the
good offices of the mediators in
j "i"?, ""J'T""1 "V!" U,e r'V"1
I'' wl! just an U was befor
fore
the mediators stepped in
A. It. Garretsrn. president of the
order of Railroad Conductors, and
official spokesman of the men. said
that unless the "-ailrond.s made satis
factory concessions "they would re
fuse to b.nd themselves to federal
mediation am', unless something elst
intervened th" general strike order
would be enforced.
AGAINST PROHI AMENDMENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HOI STON, Tex., August 9. In
structions to the legislature to oass
prohibition amendment resolution was
rejected as a plank in the state plat
form by the Texas democratic conven
tion tonight. The vote was C:'4 to 2'J'J.
Wilson Ready To
Take Part In The
Railroad Muddle
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
WASHINGTON, Aug. 9. Word that
tho services of the federated mediation
board had been accepted today in tlie
threatened strike of. 400.000 railway
employes, was received with undis
guised relief by administration of
ficials here.
The members of the board, with Sec
retary Wilson, went to New J'ork with
directions from President Wilson, to
do everything possible to avert a strike.
They were instructed to keep the
White House fully informed of every
development. Realizing the serious
situation which would confront the
country should a strike occur it is
understood the president Is ready to
exercise the authority he possesses to
bring the employers and employes into
agreement.
Mr. Wilson has been prepared to
send a personal message to the man
agers and workers, or to summon rep
resentatives of the two sides to the
White, House,
I BIG Mill
UNDERSTANDING
MAY AVERT STRIf
PREPAREDNESS POLICY
AN INADEQUATE ONE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. PAUL, Aug. 9. Charles K.
Hughes. seaking tonight in the Audi-
toriuin here, assailed the administra- '
lion for its preparedness policy, which
he declared inadequate, asserted that ;
he regarded "reasonable preparedness
as a primary duty," and purposed, if
eleted, "to see that it is discharged
to the credit of the American people."
"We are spirited people," Mr.
Hughes declared. "We are a people I
. . i ... .
,!.-. i .nt. .ve aie noi
l,..r ,,..,U11 in lIRlll.
Much of the nominee's address was i
devoted to the Mexican situation and !
the calling of the national euard to
service on the border. There had been j
warnings for two years that America
should be prepared Mr. Hughes said
yet when the time came to put an
armv on the border, "to do police ser- I
vice ' there wa nre'aontsH -j
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 9. Democratic
partv managers here today gave out
a k".lr from President Simuel Gom
pers of the American Federation of
Labor, to Thomas H. Nichols, of Alli
ance, Ohio, reveiwing the attitude of
Charles K. Hughes, the republican
presidential nominee in supreme court
cases involving the interests of labor.
Mr. Gompers was out of the city, but
the democratic leaders gave out the
leler as having been writen from head
quarters of the American Federation of
Labor, in response to a request for Mr.
Hughes' record.
Mr. Gompers' letter reviews the
Danhury hatters case, which resulted
in an unanimous decision of the su
preme court, in which former Justice
Hughes concurred, holding the hatters
of Danhury must individually pay D.
E. Ixiewe and Co. $300,000 damages
under the Sherman law for the Ham
mers boycott. It also referred to the
courts' decision, holding unconstitional
the Arizona anti-alien labor law.
Former Justice Hughes wrote the
opmion.
Jn that decision, wrote Mr. Gom-
pcrs, "Justice Hughes took the posi-
uo.i u.at i ,e injunctive process applies
1" ' v;. ; .. " ""v
T. ,h T i tnd"rsemp,nt ?f
rJn.?i ?i!.Ht.,in,UMllIOrr aP,,ly.t"
personal relations. Mr. Hughes has
taken an unequivocal position. He
V '"-
unequivocal position. He
endorses the abuse of the writ of in
junction against which wage earners I
have viiiiroiiKlv oriitoutfid utiH urhlr.h
they have tried to correct by remedial
legislation, in order that thev might
enjoy the rights and opportunities of
tree citizens.
"The above is accurately the in
formation which you asked, and I take i
It will tie or importance to you as well
as to the working people and liberty
loving citizens all over the country,
and enabling them to understand tlie
mental attitude of Mr. Hughes, who
now is a candidate for the presidency
of the United States."
(Special to The Republican)
TUCSON, Aug. 9. This was the
busy day of delegates to the conven
tion of the State Federation of Labor.
Senator Worsley asked for and was
given permission to address the con
vention and refute articles In the El
Paso Times and other papers, charg
ing him with saying that while he was
seeking the democratic nomination for
congress he was opposed to the re
election of Governor Hunt. The sen
ator declared the statement false and
those printing it knew it to be false
when making it. He asserted that he
was ln favor of and would do all in his
power to re-elect the governor, and,
although he was not labor's candidate
for congress, he was now and always
had been for labor's cause and be
lieved in and would work for the
eight-hour work day and the govern
ment ownership of railroads, tele
phones and telegraph lines.
A telegram from Congressman Hay
den asked if a candidate for congress
had been endorsed. The secretary
was instructed to answer "No:" hut.
Judging from sentiment expressed by
delegates, labor votes will be cast for
Senator Worsley.
Resolutions commending Sheriff
Cash, of Greenlee county, opposing the
formation of home guards, discourag
ing partisan politics, requesting the
American Federation of Labor to ap
point an organizer for the southwest
district of Arizona, New Mexico and
Texas; commending thn supreme
courts of Colorado and of the United
States tor action taken in an election
Dniinmuiipucc' J
1 1 r uir iiiiHiir l
L L UU LU
STIR 111
bill ISSUES
STATE FEDERATION OF LABI
HAS BUSY SESSION IN TUCSON
Charles E. Hughes
showing inefficiency of the first mag
nitude." The administration's embargo on
arms to Mexico was criticised as "fast
and loose no policy."
"I don't think it a rash statement,"
the nominee said, "I think- it is war
ranted by the facts to gay that any
American soldier killed in Mexico is
killed by American bullets that we
rave let go over the border."
j i iiugnco iririieu I
Mr Hughes referred to an address
to the 8enate by Senator Lewis of Illi-
nis
.', ... , ,.,
' d,dn 1 llke some statements of
. "? ""'"",e fcil,u- lnev Q1B
tressed him- 1 am fclad of it. That j
intention, out mere waen t a
wo,d in what 1 sa'1 tnat he or anybody
el,T, c,,uld answer."
ln'' punitive expedition to Mexico,
M r. 1 1 ugbes said, was on ly called puiil-
tive.
I only punishment inflicted was
punishment inflicted on ourselves," he
said. "We punished nobody cjse." j
A large proportion of the nominee's
I adores::, was devoted to reiteration of
his views on the need for industrial
co-operation and preparation for com-I
mcri i l .llrlTit i t w.r. I.ir
I the wai. !eff-ct. and his place given lo a pili-
In his speech at the Auditorium here tician has been challenged -by Scre
tonight. Air. Hughes said in part: I t:irv ' Redfield. Secretary Redfie'.il
"1 am a strong party man. I be- telegraphs me that I was greatly mis
lieve in party organization as an es- ', informed. He says "Durand was not
sential agency of republican govern- j removed or retired, but resigned vol -ment.
But I believe in party organ- ' vntai ily unasked. I was glad to tn
ization as the servant of a democratic dorse him for present employment."
people: and 1 stand as the represents- I "E Dana Durand happens' to be
tive of a party in order that through professor in the University of Min
the essential instrumentality 1 may nesota and I am going to read the.
serve all the men and women of tne letter which he has written me today
Lnited States. i jn repect to this matter. He says;
"I believe that there la no reason- ! "Inirmi-h u iv, irntti of vmr
able man in the progressive party and
no devout and strong organisation man
in the republican party who holds to
the great ideals of the heroes and pros
perity and efficiency of this nation,
wno cannot, with a good conscience,
support my candidacy. j
e have come from many lands.
Here in the northwest we know thut
Americanism is a thing of the spirit
and not of the flesh. Wherever a man
is born, if he is a naturalized American
citizen, he is heartily an American j
citizen, with American ideals, with
American hopes, ready to give, live and '
die for the United States.
"I desire to see a reinforcement of
the American sentiment in that con- i
sciousness of unity which displaces all 1
possibility of diversion. We must have
that inner feeling of intense loyalty. ,
What is there to divide us? Wc m a j
united people, and only through that '
dominant sense of unity and of loyahy
can we find the force and motive power
I which will mw. n oi-n. nti,.
I ,..,a.. .,.,,-, .;,k .,,.al" ,7 .
twentieth century
pe with the prop
"There was no excuse for permitting '
; our regular army to remain at so low,
ia l'oil11 t t could not perform mili-
! tary duty, without summoning men I
j ,ln)re)ared for Bervice from th. length
nj i.-...i.!. ..t ,i. i i.i
unprepared for service from tha length
I anU breadth of the land. Tlii" is not
siectaclc of a prepared nation. That
is a condition for which I hold the ad
ministration responsible.
"Consider for a moment the facts. It
was only about a year and a half ago
that certain patriotic citizens were di
recting attention to the need of pre
paredness, to the need of the enlarge- '
ment of our regular army. And the
president of the United States formally
expressed his opinion that such per- I
sons were nervous, excited, that there '
was no reul onriiuiun for nl-irm Ihut I
there were no conditions which 'made
(Continued on Page Two)
fraud, and condemning the state cor
poration commission for becoming in
volved in the contemplated railroad
strike situation.
The delegates formed in line at 1
o'clock, marched to the new city hall
and denouneed Its being built by Los
Angeles contractors and foreign labor.
At 3 o'clock delegates took a street i
car ride to the university and had a
group picture taken. Tonight there'
was a big smoker in Eagles' hall. The
indications are that the convention
will not finish before Saturday.
Work Out Plan For Congress
To Adjourn By September 1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire , mitted to the republican leaders in
WASHINGTON, Aug. 9. A plan for i writing a proposal that no important
adjournment of congress by Septem- 1 legislation be taken up at this session
ber 1 was worked out by senate lead- except the shipping, revenue, employ
ers today in a series of conferences , ers' liability and appropriation hills
occupying virtually the whole atten-'and conference reports, with a view to
tion of senators of both parties and ' adjournment by the end of the present
transforming the opening day of de- , month.
bate on the government ship purchase'! Members of the republican steering
bill, which stirred up a bitter fight committee received the proposal
when it was pressed two years ago, favorably. Definite reply was de
Into a spiritless discussion among the ferred until it can be submitted to a
corporal's guard of members- who re -
mained in their places in the chamber,
As a result of the day's maneuvers the
democratic steering ipommittee sub-.
UH liRILf '
ASKED TO QUIT:
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn., Aug. .
Charles K. Hughes, replying to Sec
retary Redfield's telegram denying
that E. Dana Durand was forced out
of office as director of the census,
today read to a large audience here a
letter from Mr. Durand in which Mr.
Duiand said that he had told Red
field he would resign but wanted t
remain and that Redfield replied that
the administration had decided on a
change.
In nis speech here. Mr. Hughes said
in part:
"In my speech at Detroit I took oc
casion to refer to the fact that 4n t
very important bureau, the bureau
census, an eminent statistician, man
oi corsiucuous experuiess anu nm
f"r the place, had been retired, and t
man had been appointed in his place
vvitrout qualifications for that im-
Portant technical work. You must
j ni.uv, ii j n lain nicii icuniin " t
, . . . M
re.iu is. in tne proper conation
those statistics is furnished the or-
!ortunity for many investigators to
dtect imiHirtant tendencies in our life.
It is work thot must be done ex
rertly. "Now, my statement that E. Dana.
T......! .. II A I uaiA !
statement with regard to the change
in the directorship of the census have
be?n challenged, I think it is only fair
to you that I should make this state
ment. My resignation as director was
distinctly a forced resignation. At
the first conversation I had with Sec
retary Redfield. 1 told him that T
! v.otild resign, bet th.it I honed I
would be permitted to remain. He at
once' told me that the administration
wanted tc mike a change. I believe,
to 'create a vacancy' were his word.
The next that I heard of it was an
ennouncement in the press that my
successor had been named and I at
once, wrote out my resignation.'
"In that same speech I referred tn
a technical bureau known as the
coast and geodetic survey and to the
fact that in place of an eminent
scientist theie has been appointed a
man whom I retarded as without
proper qualifications.
I r.xceimon aiso nas 'n
-Exception also has tnken bv
i he distinguished secretary with re-
! .ar'1 "lat man-" tn nominee con
tinued. ,ow l am not tn a position
to stat? cf mv own knowledge and
circumstances with reference to th
retirement of the eminent scientist
" h, "'"''""-d important place,
Put if I mav assume that he retired
may assume
voluntarily, mv point is not so much
the retirement of a man who went
but the character o the man by
whom he was succeede'd.
"He went there from his stock
farm and took charge.
"After he had been thre a couple
of years he wss nut in charge of the'
coast and geodetic survev. No-v th
administration says that he is a won
; dc-fully cotnpetant man.
i "In that speech I called attention
to the manner in which the civil ser-
Vi''' laws were disregarded 'I stated
inai in ine vear emiins aooui fluni.
1016 there had been removefl from
: the operation of tl'e civil sevice rules
i b.- soecial legislation about 104. That
of these 'lot. twentv were appointed
I without requesting the opinion "of the
civil service commission. That in
I twenty-two cases, the civil service
! commission was asked for Its ooinion.
'"id approved, and that in sixtv-two
ceses. the executive order was made
, rlirrctlv in the teeth if the disap
i proval of the civil service commls
I sion.
I "Put T stand bv the statement
I which I thencht I made, which I nmv
' maVe, that there was In that year,
i ending about April. 191ft. 104 of these
' executive exemptions: that sixty-two
of these were made against the advice
of the civil service commission, and
twenty of them without requesting
the judgment of the commission. My
authority for that statement is a very
excellent review of this rarticular
tr-itter by Representative Gillette of
Massachusetts. He reviews first the .
two years precedin. nnd it Is there
that in the f'rst two years of the
(Continued on Page Eight)
, republican conference called to meet
tomorrow by Senator Gallinger, but
I it seemed assured that the limited
' legislative program would be agreed, to.
