Tron County Register
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY.
SUBSCRIPTION i
One Year, $1.50. Six Months, $0.7$.
SATES OF ADTlETiaiNO
PurnUhed on Application. Special In-
dueements to Borne Patron.
Address Register, Ironton, Mo.
. Will Carry Ohio. ,
"Ohio will vote for Wilson in No
vember as surely as election day
comes," declared Col. W. W. Durbin,
chairman of the Democratio State
Central Committee of Ohio', a recent
visitor at Democratio National head-
, quarters in New York. .
"There are many reasons for this,"
said Col. Dnrbin, "bat the chief
reason is, that Wilson has kept ns oat
of war at a time when vthe world Is
engaged in the greatest conflict in
history. The people can see now with
great plainness the advantages that
come from being employed in peace
ful pursuits rather than in war.
"Ohio never was so prosperous in
all her history. Farmers have never
received such high prices for their
grain, cattle and hogs. Laboring men
never received snch high wages, and
manufacturers never had such orders
as they have at present. This is not
due to war munitions, because the
total exports of war munitions will
not equal two per cent, of the total
exports. With such conditions pre
vailing, the people of Ohio can well
harken to the old slogan of Mark
Hanna, 'Let well enough alone.'
"If President Wilson's admlnlstra
tion had done nothing else than to
pass the Federal Reserve Banking
law," continued Col. Durbin, "that
alone would entitle it to an endorse
ment. It eavedthe country from a
panic when the war commenced, and
is proof against any happening here'
after. It is the greatest piece of con
structive legislation since the Civil
War. Business men who could not
get their money out of the banks in
1907, during KooBvelt's administration,
appreciate the benefits of this act,
and will show their appreciation in
November. I confidently believe
Wilson will carry Ohio,' and we will
re- elect Senator Fomerene, and will
also elect Governor Cox to the Gover
norship." ,
Sand Industry Affected By European War
An increase in the quantity of glass
sand used in the United States in 1915
over that in 1914 n.ay be explained in
part by the activity in the glass indus-
try due to increased exports, a direct
effect of the war in Europe. The pro
duction of glass sand in ,1915 was 1,
884,041 short tons, valued at ...81,
606,640. This is the largest quantity
ever reported by the United States
Geological Survey, Department of the
Interior, which has just issued its
annual statistical report on sand and
gravel. Some, weeks ago figures were
given out for the production of glass
sand in the principal producing States,
tout the above are final figures for the
entire country.
Molding sand was produced In very
roach greater quantity in 1915 than
in 1914, owing in part at least to the
foreign demand for vast supplies of
machinery and munitions requiring
the casting of metal, which called for
the use of molding sand in large
amounts. The total production of
molding sand throughout the United
States as reported to the Survey was
8,585,746 Short tons, valued at 82,-
123,203. '
The report shows that the total
quantity of sand and gravel produced
In 1915 and reported to the Survey
was 76,603,303 short tons, valued at
823,121,617. It Includes also a list' of
localities where glass sand was pro
duced in 1915 and another list of
localities where it occurs.
To Make Apple Jelly "Jell."
It is just about as easy to make jelly
from apples, quinces, peaches, or
pears as from,' any other kind of
' fruit, if yon know how, according to
Miss Addie D. Root of the Missouri
College ' of Agriculture. J All that
is necessary is; to add enough
tartario or citric acid to the juice to
make it taste, about as sour aa a good
our appie. jrais usuany means aooui
a level teaspoonf ul to a quart of
juice. It destroys the delicate flavor
of peach and pear juice somewhat but
improves the flavor of sweet apple
and quinoe Juice.
Blackberries, blueberries, rasp
berries, partially ripe . grapes, sour
apples, and plums usually make good
fallv hnnanaA t.liAV tiftvA .nnnrrli a.M
and in Bh.f.nJ
.7 . 7 7. 7 . "-"""""-yix
called pectin which must be present
and must be brought out with the
juice by heating if jelly Is to"Be made.
That is why jelly. makers do not sim
ply press out the juice from cold fruit.
All apples arfd similar fruits have
enough pectin tor jelly purposes.
In making apple jelly, cover the
fruit with water before cooking and
boll twenty or thirty minutes. After
boiling has continued ten or fifteen
minutes, add about three -quarters of
cup sugar for every cup of juice. The
sugar that will be required should have
been measured Into a pan and warm
ed in the oven for a while before It Is
added. It should be carefully stirred
In to prevent burning.
As soon as the glasses are filled
with the hot Jelly they should bo set
in a cool place while Jelling takes
place. They should be sealed from
the air but if the jelly has been slight
ly overcooked, It may be covered
with panes of glass and allowed to
harden In the sun. When it is'woll
I '-'
State Historical Society
P. P. AKE, Publisher.
VOLUME L.
Ar ran. hot .m . .
- fMIUUU ww fcuo nuu
put clean tin covers on the glasses.
Store them away la a dry, cool place
where the jelly cannot mold.
From Arcadia Heights.
We had a fairly good rain here
Tuesday last, which did much good to
corn crops in me vauey.
The Baptist Assembly will convene
Tuesday. Many people are already
on me neigms, ana ocners are com
ing in daily. There are now at least
one hundred tents In first class shape
to be used to accommodate those who
wish to camp on the grounds. The
drive-way from the county road to
the Heights has been very much im
proved, the pavilion completed, and
in fact, everything is in readiness to
tarnish first class accommodations to
those who may attend the Assembly
J. H. Hedrick last week traded his
farm near here to a gentleman in
Louisiana. The gentleman is said to
be very wealthy. Mr. Hedrick will
remove his family to Louisiana just
as soon as he can dispose of his rjer-
sonal property, which he has adver
tised for sale next Saturday. He has
been to the writer a good friend and
neighbor, and we very much regret
to see him leave this locality. How
ever, we wish him success in his new
home. :
In my last week's communication,
while speaking of the difference in
the altitude between this locality and
Granite City, Illinois, I intended to
say that Granite City (not Roselle) is
entirely too low for one reared in this
section of the country. Roselle is
considered a very healthy locality,
and for that reason the writer did not
care to trade his farm out there for
property in Granite City.
Mrs. J. T. Patterson and daughters,
Minnie and Iola, visited Mrs. Hedrick
Sunday afternoon.
Your writer took supper last Mon
day with Mr. Wm. Depew, who had
that afternoon been threshing his
wheat and oats. Mr. Depew has a fine
farm, plenty of live stock of all kinds,
and in fact everything around the
premises indicates prosperity, which
he and his wife very justly deserve.
J. D. Vance and son, Harry, are kept
very busy these days going to and
from the depot at Ironton to meet all
passenger trains. '
Judge Moyer of Belleview Vas in
Ironton last week. Mr. M. informed
your writer that the valley out there
is getting very dry.
We were very sorry, indeed, to hear
of the sudden death of our old and
esteemed friend, M. J. Orrick.of near
Graniteville which occurred last
week. .
The Huff Brothers, from near Ho
gan, were in this locality last week
with their threshing machine. Eli
Depew, who had- wheat on the W. R.
Edgar farm, threshed 131 bushels of
wheat. While .the yield of wheat was
not much over half what the same
ground produced last year, the qual
ity was very good. ,
'Fred Russell threshed 71 bushels of
oats from three and (one-half acres
a small traction over zu busneis per
acre. v
f rom tne best information we can
get from farmers from various local
ities in this county, it may be definite
ly stated that the average yield of
wheat will fall somewhat below 50 per
cent, or tne normal. This, ot course,
means an actual loss to the farmers
who had wheat. The Hessian fly did
some damage to the wheat crop, but
the main damage was due to the fact
that it was winter-killed last winter.
: P.
The Best Proof.
Ironton Citizens Cannot Doubt It.
Doan's Kidney Pills were used
They brought benefit.
The story was told to fronton resi
dents.
Time has strengthened the evidence.
Has proven the result lasting.
The testimony is from this locality.
The proof convincing.
Joseph Knagge, Fredericktown, Mo.
iys: 'Walkine. stoooine or liftine
always gave me bachache and the
sharp pains kept me in misery. The
kidney secretions were scanty and
pamrui in passage. One box of Doan's
Kidney Pills greatly relieved me."
gone fob good.
More than five vears later. Mr.
Knagge said: "I am entirely free
from kidney trouble now and don't
have any more backache. I trive
Doan's Kidney Pills the credit for
mis."
Price 50e. at all dealers. Don't
simply ask for a kidney Temedy get
Doan's Kidney Pills the same that
Mr. Knagge has twice publicly reooin-
menuea. ij oster-miiburn Co., Props.,
Buffalo, N.Y.-Adv.
Father Edmonds.
Charles Edmonds died at bis home
in Belleview, Mo., Sunday, July 23,
1916, at 5 a. u., at the see 76 years. 1
month and 10 days. The deceased
had always been a resident of Iron
county. He bad been In poor health
for some time, and death was not un
expected.
. He leaves a wife, two daughters and
sons to mourn their loss.
The funeral servioes were conduct
ed at the home Monday afternoon
hy Rev. LM. Sherrow, and Interment
was made in Eidson cemetery. De
ceased was not a member of any
church, but said be was ready for the
summons, "Come home."
A preolous one from as has gone,' .
A voice we loved Is stilled.
A place Is vacant lu the home '
Which never can bo filled. '
And while he lies in peaceful sleep,
m memory we snail always Keep,
Sallib.
TTTE Text Wnnilcr euro kirlnoy end
bladder tnmlilt'S, (llssolven gravel, enret
dUlK!U:, veal', and kiuin bnck'i, rtirnmtv
tWm and all inviiiliiritiosof i lie Sidneys uml
Mwlilor in I'Olh )"ipn and women. It not sold
by youiMlmiTtfift, will ho scut, l;y m:iU on ra
c'ht rt SI. One small hr.ttle is two months'
trwiMtifnt and seldom f ah to liort'oet ap-rirn.
Send i'ur lovthnn'ilHla finm this and ocher
Ktatfs. Dr. K. V. Hall, ai28 Olive ritroot,
fc' L liuuiai, Ao. HM hi uruki:lsU.--Adv.
WvjllliXAS WONDER
IRONTON. MO.,
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, June 27, I9I6. -
The state of Missouri, at the relation and to
the use of B. P. Burnham, collector of
the revenue of Iron county, Missouri,
against
John E. Love, James E. Reese and D. B.
Beedle, and Francis M. McK.ee, if liv
ing ; or the unknown consort, heirs and
devisees of Francis M, McKee, if he be
dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes )
Now at this day comes the plaintiff, B.
P. Burnham, collector of the revenue of
Iron county, Missouri, and files his petition
and affidavit, setting forth among other
things, that the defendant,
Francis M. McKee,
is a non-resident of the state of Missouri,
and that he cannot be served with sum
mons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
Francis M. McKee,
has not been heard of for many years
that plaintiff .is not informed whether he
be living or dead; that if he be dead,
bis heirs, or if he died leaving a will,
his devisees, are interested in the subject
matter of this petition: that the names of
such heirs or devisees, or both, cannot be
inserted herein because they are unknown
to plaintitl; that the said
John E. Love, James E. Reese, D. B
Beedle and Francis M. McKee,
were the record owners of the land describ
ed herein, but plaintiff has no information
except as herein stated of the nature of the
interest and estate in said land owned bv
saia .
John E. Love, James E. Reese, -I). B
Beedle and Francis M. McKee, .
and therefore is unable to particularly de
scribe the same, and that in the event of
the death of the said
Francis M. McKee.
his said heirs and devisees have, by
descent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
Francis M. Mckee,
trom whom their interest in the property
nerein aescrmea is derived, it is therefore,
ordered by the clerk of the circuit court of
Iron county, Missouri, in vacation that
publication be made notifying said defen
dants that an action has been commenced
against them in the circuit court of said
county, the object and general nature of
which is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendants for back
taxes for the years 1912, 1913, and 1914,
to wit:
The west one-half of the hortheas
quarter and the west one-half of the south
east quaiter of section 21, township xi.
north, of range 3 east, 160 acres Slid real
estate Being in Iron, county, Missouri. '
(An itemized statement in the nature of
a tax bill showine the amount of taxes.
interest and costs now due on ; said real
estate for the years aforesaid, amounting in
the aggregate to the sum of twenty-three
and 55-100 dollars,1 is filed with said
petition as provided bylaw.) .-
And unless they be 'wftMrpeit1 ' at' the
next terra ot said court to be holden for the
county of Iron, and state of Missouri, at the
court house in said county on the fourth
Monday in October next, l9i6,andon or be
fore the third day thereof (if the term shall
so long continue; and, if not, then before
the end of the term), and plead answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petitton, the same
will be taken as confessed, judgment
rendered in accordance with the prayer of
said petition, and said real estate, or so
much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be
sold under a special fieri facias to be issued
thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof
be published according to law in the Iron
county Register, a weekly newspaper pub
lished in said county of Iron and state of
Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Cierk.
A true copy from the record:
. seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 27th da of June,
1916.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county,
Missouri, in vacation. lune 29. 1918.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
ana to tne use of Ji. r Burnham,
collector of the revenue of Iron coun
ty, Missouri,
auainst
W. H. Shelby, if living; or the un-
Known consort, heirs ana devisees of
W. H. Shelby, if he be dead, defend
ants. (Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff.
B. P. Burnham. collector of the revenue
of Iron cnuntyyMissouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things, that the defendant,
w, a. sneioy,
is a non-resident of the state of Mis
souri, and that he cannot be served
with summons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
. W. H. Shnlbv.
has not been heard of for many years ;
lkr.f ln;nl..'S ! i !-B J 1 11
he be livinjr ordead: that if he be
dead, his heirs, or if he died leaving
a will, his devisees, are interested in
the subject matter of this petition; that
the names of such heirs or devisees, or
ootn, cannot be inserted herein because
they are unknown to plaintiff; that the
said
1 W. H. Shelby,
was the record owner . of the land
described herein, but plaintiff has no
information excent as herein stated of
.the nature of the interest and estate in
said land owned by said
W.H. Shelby,
and therefore is unable to particularly
describe the the same, and that in the
event of the death of the said
W. H. Shelbv. .
his said heirs and devisees have, by
aescent or aovise, succeeded to the saia
interest and estate of the said
W.H.Shelby,
from whom their interest in the prop
erty herein described is derived. It is
therefore, ordered by the clerk of the
circuit court of Iron county, Missouri,
in vacation, that publication Jje made
notifying said defendant that an ac
tion has been commenced against them
in the circuit court of said county, the
objoct and general nature of which is
to enforce the lien of the state of Mis-
souri on the following .real estate, bo-,
wngmg to tne said defendant lor back
taxes for tho year 1914, to wit:
Lots 1 and 2 of the southwest quar-
tor of section 30. township 84, north, of
range 2 east, 171.62 acres said real
estate being in Iron county, Missouri. 1
(An itemized statement In the nature
of a tax bill shpwing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on
OUR GOD, OUR COUNTRY AND TRUTH.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 10. 1916.
said real estate for the year aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of five and 87-i0l) dollars, is filed
with said petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for
the county of Iron, and state of Mis
souri, at the court house in said county
on the fourth Monday in October next,
19i6, and on or before the third day
thereof (if the term shall so lone con.
tinue: and, if not, then before the end
of the term), and plead, answer or
uiuui lu tsaiu uuunun a petition, tne
name win do lanea as contessea, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so mucn thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thoreon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
iron uounty riegister, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record:
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 29th day of June,
1916.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk ,
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county,
Mis-
soun, in vacation, June 27, 1916.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and
to the use of B P. Burnham, collector of
the revenue of Iron county, Missouri,
against
William H. Wolff and Wilhelm Behren, if
living; or the unknown consort, heir and
, devisees of Wilhelm Behren, if he be
dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff, B. P.
Burnham, collector of the revenue of Iron
county, Missouri, and files his petition and
amaavit, setting lortn among other things,
that the defendant,
Wilhelm Behren,
is a non-resident of the state of Missouri,
and that be cannot be served with sum
mons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
Wilhelm Behren,
has not been heard of for many years;
that plaintiff is not informed whether he be
living ordead; that if he be dead, his
heirs, or if he died leaving a will, their
devisees, are interested in the subject
matter of this petition; that the names of
such heirs or devisees, or both, cannot be
inserted herein because they are unknown
to. plaintiff; that the said
Y ilhelm Behren and William H. Wolff.
were the record owners of the land describ
ed herein, but plaintiff has no information
except as herein stated of the nature of the
interest and estate in said land owned by
Said
Wilhelm Behren and William II. Wolff.
and therefore is unable to 1 particularly de
scribe, the same, and th.Ju- the. event of
.v.- J,u .1 :J - - - -It "
UW ucdlll Ul MIC SLUU
Wilhelm Behren,
his said heirs and devisees have, by de
scent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
Wilhem Behren,
from whom their interest in the property
nerein oescriDea is derived, it is therefore,
ordered by the clerk of the circuit court of
Iron county, Missouri, in vacation, that
publication be made notifying said defen
dants that an action has been commenced
against them in the circuit court of said
county, the object and general nature of
which is to enforce the liemif the state of
Missouri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendant for back
taxes for the years 19I3 and 1914, to wit:
Lots one, two, seven and eight in block
32 in the town of Pilot Knob, Missouri, as
the same appear on the plat of said town
of Pilot Knob, Mo., on ffle in the office of
the Recorder of Deeds for Iron county,
Mo., said real estate being in Iron county,
Missouri,
(An itemized statement in the nature of a
tax bill showing the amount of taxes, inter
est and costs now due on said real estate for
the years aforesaid, amounting in the
aBBregate t "e sum of fourteen and 15-100
dollars, is filed with said petition as pro
vided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for the
county of Iron, and state of Missouri, at the
court house in said county on the fourth
Monday in October next, I916, and on or
before the thitd day thereof (if the term
shall so long continue; and, if not, then
before the end of the term), and plead,
answer or demur to said plaintiff's petition,
the samd will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real estate.
or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be
sold under a special fieri facias to be issued
thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof be
published according to law in the Iron
county register, a weekly newspaper
puDiisneci in said county ot Iron, and state
ot Missouri..
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record:
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 27th day of June,
1916,
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Cleric
Circuit Couit, Iron county, Mo,
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, June 29, iOiti.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. P. Burnham,
collector of the revenue of Iron
county, Missouri,
v against " .
Sara Prank Taylor, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
Sam Frank Taylor if he be dead,
" defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lion for TaxoaJ
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, colloctor of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things, that the defendants,
Sam Frank Taylor, if living; or the
unknown consort, heirs and devisees of
Sam Frank Taylor, if he be dead,
are non-residents of the stato of Mis
souri, and that thoy cannot be served
with summons in said state; it is there
fore, ordered by the clerk of the cir.
cuit court of Iron county, Missouri, in
vacation, mat publication be
made
notifying said defendants that an action
has boon commenced against them in
tne circuit court of said county, the
objoct and goneral nature of which is
to enforce the lion of the state of Mis.
souri on the following real estate, be.
longing to tho said' defendants for hack
taxes for tho years 1911, i912, IUiS and
1014, to wit:
Lot 10 in block 4 of J. H. York's
Subdivision "Arcadia Heights" as per
plat thereof on file in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds for Iron County,
Miu., suujecu 10 mineral reservation
made by Bin Muddy Coal & Iton Com
pany in Book 52, page 118, Iron county
Land Records said real estate being
iu nun uuuricy, Missouri. ,
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest; and costs now due on
saia real estate for the years aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of twenty and 70- 1OO dollars, is filed with
oa.u pewMua as proviaea uy law.)
Ana unless they be and appear at
tne next term of said court to be holden
for the county of Iron, and state of
moouuii, at, tne court nouse in saia
county on the fourth Monday in Octo
ber next. 1916. and on of before thn
third day thereof (if the term shall so
long continue; and, if not, then bofore
the end of the term), and plead, answer
or ueraur 10 saia plaintiff's petition,
the same will be taken as confessed.
judgment rendered in accordance with
cue prayer of said petition, and said
real estate, or so much thereof as may
be necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy
hereof be published according to law
in the Iron County Register, a weekly
newspaper published in said county of
Iron, and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS. Clerk.
A true copy from the recoord :
seal Witness my hand and of
ficial seal, this 29th day of
June- 19i6.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county.
Missouri, in vacation. June 26. i9rfi.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
ana to tne use of B. P. Burnham,
collector of the revenue of Iron coun
ty, Missouri,
atrainst
J. R. Edmonds, Manraret Camnbell
and William Campbell, if living; or
the unknown consorts, heirs and
devisees of J. R. Edmonds, Margaret
Campbell and William Campbell, if
they be dead; and C. E. Bolch and
Wm. Blue, Sheriff of Iron County,
Missouri, Trustee, defendants.
Now at this day comes the plaintiff.
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and amdavit, setting forth
amontr other thines. that the defendants.
J. R. Edmonds. Marsaret Campbell and
William Campbell,
are non-residents of tho state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
with summons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendants.
J. R. Edmonds, Marearet Camnbell
and William Campbell,
have not been heard of for many years!
that plaintiff is not informed whether
they be living or dead; that if they
Da aeaa, ineir neirs, or 11 they died
leaving a will, their devisees, are in
terested in the subject, matter of this
petition; that the names of such heirs
or devisees, or both, cannot be inserted
herein because they are unknown to
piaintm; that the said
J, R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
aua wiuiam uampDea anac. E. Bolch
and Wm. Blue, Sheriff of Iron county,
Missouri, Trustee,
were tho record owners of the land
described herein, but plaintiff has no
information except as herein stated of
tne nature 01 the interest and estate m
said land owned by said
J. R. .Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campbell, C. E. Bolch
and Wm. Blue, Sheriff of Iron County,
Missonri, Trusteel
and therefore is unable to particularly
escriDe. tne same, ana that in the
event of the death of the said
J. R. Edmonds. Marearet Campbell
ana wiuiam uampDett,
their said heirs and devisees have, bv
uosueui or uovise, succeeuea to tne saia
interest and estate of the said
J. R. Edmonds, Marearet Campbell
ana wiuiam vampoeii.
from whom their interest in the pro'
perty herein described is derived. It
is therefore, ordered by the clerk of the
circuit court of Iron county, Missouri,
in vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an
action has been commenced against
them in the circuit court of said county,
the object and genoral nature of which
is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the following real estate.
belonging to the said defendants for
back taxes for the year 1914, to wit:
The south one-half of the north one
half of the northwest quarter and the
south one-half of the north one-half of
tha northeast quarter of section 28,
township 3i, north, of range 4 east, SO
acres said real estate being in Iron
county, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on
said real estate for the year aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of three and 33-100 dollars, is
filed with said petition as provided by
law.) ,
And unless they be and appear at the(
next term of said court to be holden'
for the county of Iron, and state of
Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in Octo
ber next, 1916, and on or before the
third day thereof (if tho term shall so
long continue; and, if not, then before
the end of the term), and plead, answer
or demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
menrrendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and state of Missouri,
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record.
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 2Gth day of June,
1916.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clork
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the oircnit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation. June 29. i9i6.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
ana to tne use 01 a, f. Burnham,
colloctor of tho revenue of Iron
County, Missouri, ,
nirainut '
Julius H. York, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees 01
. TTRMS-Si.so a-Ver In Advance.
NUMBER 10.
Julius H. York, if he be dead, de
fendants. (Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes. ) .
Now at this day comes the- plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, ocllector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
amongothcr things that the defendant,
Julius H. York, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
Julius H. York, if he be dead,
are non-residents of the state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
with summons in said state: it is there
fore, ordered by tho clerk of the cir
cuit court of Iron county, Missouri, n
vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an ac
tion has been commenced against them
in the circuit court of said county, the
uuiocv una general nature 01 whicn is
to enforce the lien of the state of Mis
souri on the following real estate, be.
longing to the said defendants for back
taxes for the years 11)12, i913andl9i4
to wit:
All of lot 3 in block 2 of J. H. Vnrlr'a
Subdivision "Arcadia Heierhts" excent
a piece out of the northwest corner of
saia lot described: beeinnme at the
normwest corner 01 lot a, thence with
the west line of same south 50 feet,
thence east parallel with the north line
of said lot 150 feet, thence northeast 45
degrees to north line of said lot, thence
west with said line to place of begin
ning: All subject to mineral reserva
tion made by Big Muddy Coal & Iron
Company in book 52 page I18, Iron
oounty Land Records said real estate
being in Iron county, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill, showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on
the said real estate for the years afore
said, amounting in the aggregate to
sum of fifteen and 30-100 dollars, is filed
with said petition as provided by law.)
jinu unless tney do ana appear at
next term of said court to be holden
for the county of Iron, and state of
Missouri, at tho court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in Octo
ber next, 1916, and on or before the
third day thereof (if the term shall so
long continue; and, if not, then before
the end of the term), and plead, answer
or demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and Baid real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment, in
terest and costs, be sold under a special
fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news.
paper published in saidcou nty of Iron,
and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
a true copy irom the record:
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 29th day of June,
' JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis-
soun, in vacation, June 29, 191b.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and
to the use of B. P. Burnham, collector
01 tne revenue ol iron county, Missouri,
against
Ilorence Dodge, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
Horence Dodge, if she be dead, de
fendants. (Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth among
other things, that the defendant,
Florence Dodge, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devieses of
Florence Dodge, if she be dead,
are non-residents of the state of Missouri,
and that they cannot be served with
summons in said state;
It is therefore, ordered by the clerk of
the circuit court of Iron county, Missouri,
in vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an action
has been commenced against them in the
circuit court of said countj the object
and general nature of which is to enforce
the lien of the state of Missouri oa the
following real estate, belonging to the
said defendants for back taxes for the
years 1911, 1912, 1913 and 1914, to wit:
Lot I4 in block 6 of J. H. York's sub
division "Arcadia Heights" as per plat
thereof on file in the office of the Re
corder of Deeds for Iron County, Mis
souri; subject to mineral reservation
made by Big Muddy Coal & Iron Com
pany in book 52, page 118, Jron county
Land Records snid real estate being in
Iron county. Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of taxes,
interest and costs now ' due on said rea
estate for the years aforesaid, amounting
in the aggregate to the sum of five and
80-100 dollars, is filed with said petition
as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for
the county of Iron, and state of Missouri,
at the court house in said county on the
fourth Monday in October next, 1916,
and on or before the third day thereof
(ff the term shall so lone continue: and.
if not, then before the end of the term)
and plead, answer or demur to said
plaintiff's petition, the same will be taken
as confessed, judgment rendered in ac
cordance, with the prayer of said petition
and said real estate, or so much thereof
as may be necessary to satisfy said judg
ment, interest and costs, be sold under
a special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy Irom the record:
skalJ Witness my hand and official
seal, this 29th day of June,
1916.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
- Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In tbe Circuit Court of Iron County, Missouri, In
.vacation, June 211 .11)10.
The State of Missouri, at the relation and to the
use of U. P. Ilurnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri,
against
Alexander It, Huesgen and David Gorman. If
hvmgi or the unknown consorts, heirs and
devlseesof Alexander 11. Huesgen and David
Gorman, if they be dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce I,len for Taxes.)
Now at this dav comes thenlaintiff. U. P. rtitrn-
hnm, collector of the revenue of Iron county, Mis
souri, and Ales his petition and affidavit, setting
forth among other things, that tha doFondaota.
Alexander H. Hucgcn and David Oorman,
are non-residents of the state of Mtwourl, and that
they cannot be served with summons in said state.
rtaiutilt erules that thedulm.dant.
Alexander H. HtuiKgrui and David Gorman,
have not been' heard of for mnnv veers that
plaintllf is not Informed whether they be living or
dead; that U they be dead, their heirs, or it they
JOB-WORK
Best equipped Job Print
ing establishment in this
section of the State. We
insure satiLfaction; prices
reasonable.
-rTRY US.
died Ietnnir a will, their deri.eei, are inMrntod
in tha ubjo.-t matter of ttau petition: thiit the
uamCHOf such heirs or deriseeg, ortmth, cannot
be insrtc herein because they are unknown to
plaintiff: that the said
AleiatKjer H. Htiesgen and David Gorman,
were the record owners of the land described
herein, but plaintiS has no information except aa
herein stated of the nature of the intereat and
etat in said land owned by said
Aleiauder H. Hueseen and'David Gorman, 1
and therefore is nuable to particularly describe
the same, and that in the event of the death of
the said
Alexander H. Haesfiren and David Gorman,
their said heirs and devisees have by descent or
devise, succeeded to the said interest and estate
of the said
Alexander H, Hueseen and David Gorman,
from whom their interest in the property herein
described is derived. It is therefore ordered by
the clerk of the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, that publication be mads '
notifying said defendants that an action has Iwen
commenced against them in the circuit court of
said county, the object and general nature of
which is to enforce the lien of the state of Mis
souri. On the following real atte halnnoin. n
the said defendants for baok taxes for the year
1914, to wit:
The west one-half of the southwest quarter of
section 9, township 3U. north, of range 3 east, HO
acres said real estate being In Iron county, Mia
souri,
(An itemized statement in the nature ot a tax
bill showing the amount of taxes, interest and
costs now due on said real estate for the year
aforesaid, amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of three and 32100 dollars, is filed with said pe
tition as provided by law.l
And unless they be and appear at the next term
of said court to be holdeu for the county of Iron,
and State of Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in October next,
li)lG, and on or before tho third day thereof (if
the term shall so long continue: and, if not, then
before the end of the term), and plead, answer, or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the same will be
taken as confessed, judgment rendered in accord
ance with the prayer of said petiton and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be sold
under a special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof be ttub
lished according to law in the IRON COUNTY REG
ISTER, a weekly newspaper published in aaid
county of Iron, and State of Missouri.
JKSSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record : .
Witness my hand and official seal this 26th day
of June, 1916'.
(SEAL) JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron County, Mo.
Order of Publication.
Edith Westerman, Plaintiff,
against
Effie Moser, Nettie Peaslee and My
ron E. Eencehausen, defendants.
The State of Missonri, to the above
named Defendants Greeting;
You are hereby notified' that n
aotion has been commenced against
you in the Circuit Court of the County
r.f Ti., In tn Cn .. b n.c: .
j. u, iu ouuurj ui uiisaouri, tor
the purpose of securing a decree of
partition and order of sale for the
following described lands, to-wit;
Lots three (3,) four (4,) five (5), six
(6,) twelve (12,) thirteen (13), four
teen (14,) fifteen (15,) and sixteen
(16,) in block sixteen (16,) and lorTsix
(6) and seven (7) in block fourteen
(14;) all in the town of Pilot Knob,
Mo., as tha same appear on the plat
of said town of Pilot Knob, Mo., on
file in the office of tho Recorder ot
Deeds for Iron County, MissoiirLwliioh
said action is rotuciiable on the- first .
day of the next term of said Court, to
be held at the Court House in the City
of Ironton, in the County of Iron and
State of Missouri, on the fourth Mon
day in October next,' 1916, when and
where you may appear and defend
such action; otherwise, plaintiff's pe
tition will be taken as confessed, .and
judgment rendered accordingly.
It is ordered that a copy hereof be
duly published at least once a week
for 4 consecutive weeks in the Iron
County Register, a weekly news
paper duly printed, published and
circulated in said Iron County, and
duly designated by plaintiff's attor
ney, and duly approved by said Clerk
as most likely to give notice to de
fendant, the last insertion to be at
least fifteen days before said next
term of said Court.
STATE OF MISSOURI, 1
county op iron. 88
I, J. M. Hawkins, Clerk of the Cir
cuit Court of Iron County, Missouri,
hereby certify that the foregoing writ
ing if a full, true and complete copy of
notice of suit and the original Ordnr nf
Publication in said cause, as fully as
the same remains and appears of rec
ord in my office.
In Witness Whereof. T hereto mih-
scribe my name and official signature
and hereto affix the seal of said Court
at my office in the City of Ironton,
Iron County, Missouri, this 20th day
i hisalij or juiy, laid.
J. M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
NOTICE OP TRUSTEE'S SALE.
Whereas. Frank Rklehnr and vtotni.
Sklebar, hie wife, by their certain deed ot
trust, dated the 17th dav of Sontomhr ion
and recorded In book 62, at page in, of Iron
County Land Records, conveyed to the un
dersigned Trustee, the following described
roniesiaie, siiuaie, lying ana belna in the
County of Iron, and State ol Missouri, to
wit:
The north Dart Of the flonthasat nnarrne nf
the southeast quarter, and the northeast
part of the southwest quarter of the south
east quarter, all in section 32, township SI,
range 4 easi, described as follows: Begin
ning at the northeast corner ol a tract ol
land deeded by"T, P. by Giles" Russell, a
distance of about 51 rods north of the south
east corner oi said section, township and
range, and running north to within 17 feet ol
the line dividing the southeast quarter ot
said section Into quarters, about 28 rods,
thence running west parallel with tho said
line about 112 rods, where it cuts the creek
known as Hayden's Branch, thence down
said creek to its junction with the north
branch ol Stout's Creek, thence down Stout's
Creek to a forked sycamore iree, standing in
thedlvlde ot creek, thence running in the di
rectlon as shown on a plat attached to a deed
from James A. Hughes and wife to Eliza sim-
merman for said Dronertv: thenre nenrlv
east to tho place ol bcginntng.containing 18.MB
acres, mora or less, and being a part ol the
same land conveyed by D.F. Martin to grant
or by deed, dated May 28th, 1111, and record
ed in book T, page Its, Iron County, Missouri
hereby referred to and made part hereof ns
fully as If the same was ennieH herein bo fi, .
as the same rolates to the ground above de-
nmucu. Aiso two ana nitv-nundretithH
12-un) acres, lvlngin the northwest nnmup r,f
of the southwest quarter of the southwest
quarter of section ), township north,
range 4 east, being all that nart or iri
southwest quarter of southwest quarter of
nuuu-w, iuwuwiup,H, norm, range 4 east,
which lies north and west of stout's Crack-i
containing, in the aggregate, 20.H8 acres.
more or less; a plat of said land Is recorded
in hook 27, on page 148, Iron County Records,
which is also reierred to for the purpose of
determining the correct boundaries ot tho
land hereby conveyed;
w men conveyance waa made to the un
dersigned trustee, in trust, to secure the na v-
mentof the certain promissory note, wlih
interest thereon. In said deed, ot trust de
scribed: And. whereas, default haa hnen msiln In
tho payment of the Interest due on said
promissory note, and the aama remalna nut
due and unpaid;
now, inereiore, m me request of the legal
holder ol the said note, I, the undersigned,
Wm. R. Kdnsr, Junior , trustee insula dood
ol trust, will, on
Monday, August trst, iqib, '
at the courthouse door In the Oltv of Iron-
ton, Iron County. Missouri, between the
hours of nine o'clock In the forenoon and
live o'clock In the afternoon of said day,
proceed to sell the property norclnbelore de
scribed, at public vendue, to the highest
bidder, lor cash, for tho pupose of satisfy
ing said indebtedness and thu the coat nf
executing this trust.
w M. it KDO A.R. .Union, Trustee.
Ironton, Mo., July 14, im.
