IXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXIII.
BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 191(5.
NUMBER 6.
ANS CAPTURE
I OF GORIZIA,
EWAYTQTRIEST
prions .'iimi limn ntiu
ti .1.1 . n mi 11T
hips wniio iti.tiiiii were
Prisoner.
MQ NPARIMn I FMRFflfi
11 I I hi II I I I I W mm mm 111 mr mm I I w
WE ARE NOT TOO
PROUD TO FIGHT,"
DECLARES HUGHES
CHARLES E. HUGHES
"GETS BACK" AT THE
ADMINISTRATION
r i r
lamina i uii uui uutim
200 Yards Turks Rc-
wp Tnvvnc nf Hit lit: nnri
in Turkish Armenia.
Republican Candidate Takes Lunge at the Wilson
Preparedness Program "We Are a People
That Can Protect Ourselves," He Asserts
On the Subject of Mexico He Says Any
American Soldier Killed There Is Killed by
American Bullets The Only Punishment
Inflicted by Punitive Expedition Is on Our-
selves.
Aug i.-Tho lenniti offensive
en'iji to a' it nn tlio Kronen,
with ini'iiv taut ,-nocess. In
tno nnnnns i .ivp , npturo.i tno
Gori;!.'! I Mit'es unrtlm'pKl nf
I 'tUllllU liU'.SIilllS hi queM
org oaie i Minor carrion oil'
r i r rj: I nnrn inn I'liiniiro ill
finm M A itstro-Gormnns,
Fran o tno French and British
tho Snirme r. ginn have attack-
Gorman
,it iro if Gnilzla hy tho Italians
is as ,mi,rtant a gain by the
present pr h'onnus offe'islve.
being thr ,' D through whli'h
it tliolr ln,!?-eneHO,e(l ifli'.i nf
Trio t, Vistiin's I.I? soapi.it nt
of tho Adriatic soa.
fa1! of Gorlzla, In which Rome
o A'istiians woio completely
'ho It illans lnfllctc-il heavy
s nn I defenders, took over 10,
prlsnnors anil ruptured eon
qunntiMos of war requisites.
usslnn General Letehltzky has
wedge fur' her into the Austrn;
line near Pt.inislnu, capturing
les oast of that Important city
whiih 'ho railroad loads to
and tho town of Tysmlonltsa.
n'vLi..t..ltDn H, llitcchnu
,'M-tMl inn I mill iminv in mi-
rlvor and (apt mod a number of
t pos lons west of Volosnlniip
...1.........1 w v i i r
rzyka rnllioa.l making the Rus-
hns rent hod to Stokovohcla.
admits thr retirement of the
lermnns bcblod the Niznlort
itsa Ouvnlt line, hut says that
arpathlnn I'oglun heights held by
isolnns near .lablonltsa and
ar 1 west of Taranov were cap-
o normal s and that strong
attacks In the Dclatyn district
of the Sor me rlvor In France
trails, ns brivo nns.llorl back tho
near Pozicios two hundred
vrr a front of six hundred
Germans from a trench ro-
u in ro I'oin iiiem norm 01
mwnnii anil roocoupie.i n. in
dun sortoi hravv aitillery ao-
in prngioss at Thiaumnnt,
Vnux-Clmi itre and Chenols.
antlno In reiiorts and I'otro
Inilts that tho Turks have io
1 the towns of Itltlls and Mush
;lsh Armenia, hut Pcliogrnil
in In this legion,
St. r.ml. Minn., Aug. 9. Thailes E.
Hughes, speaking to-night In tin audlto
rlnm here, assailed the administration for
Its preparedness policy, which he de
clared Inadequate, asserting tli.it he re
garded "reasonnhle preparedness as a pri
mnry duty" and purposed If elected "to
seo that It Is discharged to the redlt of
the American people."
"We are a spirited people," Mr lluchos
declaicd. "Wo are a people that an pro
tect ourtelvcs. Wc are not too i loud to
fight."
Much of the nominee's address was do-
on tho need for Industrial co-operation
and preparation for commercial competi
tion hy Europe after the war.
Mr. Hughes and party left for Grand
Forks, N. D.. shortly after ho had con
c luded his address.
To-morrow forenoon he spenks In Grand
l'oiks and In the evening at Fargo, X. P.,
where ho will spend the night. Friday
morning he leaves for Helena, Mont.
In his speech at the auditorium hot a
to-nlsht Mr. Hughes said relative to his
policy on prepatedness:
"Preparedness that Is reasonnhl.. and
Reads Letter from Former Cen
sus Bureau Director E. D. Du
rand, Statins He Was Forced
to Resign OHicc.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
voted to tho Mexican situation and the 1 adequate Is not militarism. Theto Is
calling of tho national guard to er Ice
on the hordor. Theie had been warnings,
for two years that America shu Id be
prepared Mr. Hughes said, yet when tho
time came to put an army on the border
"to do pollco servlco" thoro was presented
"a spectacle showing lnefIlcloue nt tho
first magnitude." The administration's
embargo on arms to Mexico was criti
cised as "fast and loose no policy "
"1 don't think It a rash statomcn' " tho
nominee stated, "I think it Is wai ranted
by the facts to say that any Aineilenn
soldier killed 111 Mexico is killed hy Amer
ican bullets that we have let go over the
border."
Mr. Hughes lcferred to a recent address
to tho Senate hy Sentor L.ewls of Illinois.
'He didn't like some statements of
mine," the nominee said. "The distress
ed him. I am glad of It. That was the
Intention, hut there wasn't a word In
what I said that he or anybody else could
answer."
The punitive expedition to Mexico, Mr.
Hughes sad, were only called punitive.
"Tho only punishment Inflicted was
punishment Inflicted nn ourselves," he
said. "We punished nobody elso."
A large portion of the nominee's address
was devoted to reiteration of his views
militarism In this coutury. Hut adequate
and leasnnahlo preparedness Is an a
nurance of our peace. It Is tho very
buttress of our solf-i ospeet. It In lor Us
to say what we me. m, and havq our
wind icgardod. It means that when
such a situation arises as there Is on
tho bonier of Mexico, that wo ain ready
to discharge our duty without calllna
men from their peaceful occupations,
from the shops and the factories and
offices all over this land.
"Hennnnble, adequate preparedness Is
a primary national duty, and If 1 am
elected. 1 propose to son as far as In me
lies that that duty Is discharged to the
credit of tho American people. And I
am not talking simply or evn primarily
of numbers. F.l'flcleney Is only a matter
of pumbeis to a certain extent. Thorough
ness, the absence of wnstp, up to date
methods, the availing of scientific In-
ostlgntlnn, the determination to go for
ward sonsihlv, expertly, with the very
best ndvlce; cutting out dry rot. Insisting
upon men equal to their Jobs.
"That Is tho kind of preparedness 1 be
lieve In which will make" our appropria
tions for military purposes properly
spent so that the public will get th
benefit of the dollars t elves."
HE WANTED 10 REMAIN
But Secretary Redficld Told Him
That the Administration De
sired to "Create a Vacancy"
Learned by Item in the Press
He Had Recn Removed.
ADDISON COUNTY
IYHDDLEBURY.
Jlr. and Mrs. George I.aran of Phila
delphia and Mrs. Edward Mahor and
two child! on of IhirllnBton, who have
been vIsltliiK their parents, .Mr, and
Mrs. Frank I.aPan, for two weeks,
have returned to thnlr homes. Dr, and
Mrs. Oliver Chllson, who have boon
camping for tho past month on l.ako
t'hatnplaln, near Milton, have returned
home. Tho Hev. A. A. Lancaster, a for
mer pastor of the Congregational
Church, hut now of the Congregational
Church nt Youngstown, Ohio, preached,
at the locnl chinch here Sunday. Ho
stopped off here on his way to his sum
mer home at Panton, where his wlfo
and children have been spending u few
weeks. The selectmen are having sntno
repairs made about the town hall nnd
opera house. Tho foundation wall has
been given some needed bracing.
ement steps are to he placed 111 front
place of the present stone stop nnd
cement walks will lead up to the en
trance, A. .1. Morris has charge of the
ork. Monday, market day, eggs
brought 2f, to 2S centR and butter 2'J
to 25 cents. William Ktnworthy lias
oturned from Fort Kthun Allen, whore
o lias been to visit Ills sons, who are
members of tho V, N. O. Clarence Cole
MAY ASK WILSON'S
RICHARD DEMERITT DIES.
Prominent AVnterliurj' IUlMllrax Man
In Legislature nf 11112.
Waterbury, Aug. 9. Although In
poor health for some time
Itrlght's disease, only a. few knew
that Richard Hemerltt was serious
ly 111 until the news of his death
camo this morning. Monday when
starting for the factory of the Demerltt
company, of which firm ho was presi
dent, Mr Demerltt had a bad spell. He
turning home the seriousness of his
THEIR GOLDEN WEDDING.
Cnpt nnd Urn, Cluirlrs K. Parker Hon
ored on Their Annl vrrsnry.
Vergonnos, Ailff. 9. Cnpt nnd Mrs.
from Charles P.. Parker celebrated the fiOth
nnnlversnry of their marriage this aft
ernoon nt their home,
Charles Edmund Parker was born In
Vergonnos February 21, 1839, son of
William Tarbell nnd Henrietta (Miller)
Parker. Ho entered Norwich in lS.lfi
and Dartmouth College In ISTiS, gradu
ating in ISfin. In 1SGG he man led
TO ADJOURN
CONGRESS SEPT.
of Ilnlti Pnrlli'K Arc I.IUelr to
Agree.
ington, Aug. 9. A plan for nd-
a series of conferences occupy-
luiuiy urn wjioib Hlicnuon oi
s of both parties and transform-
opening day of debate of tho
nent ship purchase bill, which
MO a blttrr llf-lit ivlmn If i.n a
two years ng i, Into a spliltless
on among tne corporal s guard
In the chamber
result of the day'a maneuvers
nr rn f l.i 1 1 no rl n rr ism-i ni I t t a a mih.
to the republican leaders In
a proposal that nn Important
ion be taken up nt this session
the shipping revenue, employ
hlllty and appropriation bills
nferencn reports, with a view
urnment by the end of tho prcs-nth.
tee received the proposal favor
minim rnmv wun ri e i ftrrnri until
to-morrow, hut It seemed as
hat tho limited legislative nrn-
ISbr"l' ' H' llHli-lttlll IIUIU
cd to.
PEOPLE KILLED
BY ZEPPELIN RAIDERS
.1,11.111, on u.m-., .., HiwiuuKu ma i Ab,u. Warren Ripley of Rutland. Cap-
death was not felt to bo so near. His , tnll, pnr(er enlisted in tho 7th Vermont
going removes one of the village's , r,.Klmpnt nt u, time of Its organlza-
proininont business men.
Richard Newell Demorltt was born
at Waterbury Center, December fi,
Ifr.'iO, the sou of Albert nnd Laura
(Smith; Demerltt. His early life was
spent on a farm. Ho was educated In
tho common schools and nt Oreon
Mountnln Seminary at the Center. In
1S".r, lie married Miss l.lzzln D, Stearns
by whom he had four children, one dy
ing In Infancy. Mrs. Drmerltt died In
1S93 and In ISO he married Miss Jes
sie H. Law of I.a Chute, Can. Two
children were born to them, tho son,
Stanley, dying at an early age. The
deceased Is survived hy his wife and
four children: Homer Demorltt of Rut
land, Henry Demerltt, Roy Stearns
Demerltt, and Miss l.aurn Demerltt of
this town. Also a step-mother, Mrs.
Fidelia Demerltt, who lives with his
half-sister, Mrs. Alice Rogers In Han
over, X. IT. One brother, Alhln De
merltt, survives, and two half-brothers,
Charles Demorltt of Ilurllngton
nnd William Demerltt of Kansas.
As a young man, Mr. Demerltt went
to Rutland to work for his unole,
Henry Howe and traveled for some
time for the Henry Howe confectionery
concern. Ho then went to Plattsburgh
and entered tho bakery and confec
tionery business, tho firm being Lewis
& Demerltt, later Ilromlny & Demorltt.
Selling nut thore, 10 years ago he re
turned to Waterbury, buying a third
Interest in tho Demerltt & Palmer
Packing company. A stock company
was formed, of which ho was made
president, whteh office he has held
through successive elections. Four
years ngo Richard and H. R. Demerltt
bought tho Interest of E. F. Palmor
.uid other stockholders and later the
name was chnnged to the Demorltt Co.
During theso 10 years the business haa
been much enlargod hy the buying of
the Huntley mill building, the nan-
lolph factory and enlarging tho local
factory for novelty business.
Mr. Demerltt represented Wnter-
hury In tho Legislature of 1912, where
he served efficiently on tho committees
on rallrnads and Insane. Ho was a
member of Wlnooskl Lodge, No. 49,
F. nnd A. M., was also a Chapter Ma
son, n Knight Templar, and n mombcr
lie oast roast or Knsrlann nnrl mo
st const of Scotland early to-day
war offlco. Thrra women and a
ipondents In tho districts visited
Zeppelins telegraph that tho air
lew at a great height. A very
(iro from antl-alrcrnft guns com
them to make a hasty lotrent,
.ilrshlp dropped twenty and an
Iftren Incendiary bombs, Himo nf
foil Into tho fen As on all recent
many of tho bombs fell on upon
or Into tho water as tho airships
ailing on, i inoir yruperiy.
Hon, was appointed adjutant to Colonel
Roberts nnd after his death at Jiaton
Rouge was put In commnnd of Company
H nnd saw servlco under (!en. H. F.
Itutler in the Cult' States. After his
return from the war ho was for several
years engaged In the manufacture of
doors, sashes and blinds. He was one
of the promoters of the Vergonnos
Electric enmpnny, of which he wus
president for a number of years, hold
ing that otnee until about a year ago,
when ho retired fioni active business.
Captain Parker, a republican, has
been honored with the ofllcos of mayor,
superintendent of schools and repre
sented Vergonnos In the Loglslatuie of
1891. Ho Is now secretary nnd treas
urer of the bonid of trustees of the
Hlxby Memorlnl Free library; a trus
tee of Prospect Cemetery association,
member of Ktlum Allen Post, C, A. R.;
Military Order of the Loyal Legion of
the United States nnd the Society of
the 19th Army Corps. He has boon n
llfo member of St. Paul's Protestant
Episcopal Church, Vergennos, anil for
many years has been senior warden.
Ho has served as delegate to tho gen
eral convention for four terms of three
years each; ho Is a member of the mis
sionary hoard of tho diocese; nnd a
trustee of tho Vermont Episcopal In
stitute, Mis. Parker was boin August
9, 1S44, the daughter of W. Y. and .lane
(Warren) Ripley of Rutland. She Is a
sister of the late Generals V, W, nnd
Edward H. Ripley and Charles Ripley,
and n sister of Mrs, Julia C. R. Dorr,
the noted Vermont poetess and au
thoress, all of Rutland. Mrs, Parker
was educated at Troy Conference
Academy nnd tho Ripley Female Col
lege of Poultney. Sho Is a prominent
memher of si. Paul's Protestant
Church, a member of the Woman's
Auxiliary, hoard of missions, and of tho
Vergonnos Improvement society.
captain and .Mis. Parker have one
daughter, Mrs. draco Agnes Wohh of
Davenport, la.
The celebiatlon was planned by the
friends of Captain and Mrs. Parker.
Tho liouso was beautlliilly Herniated.
Tho Misses Ruth Harrington, Ruth
Kiel, bins, Frances Wheeler and Mar
garet Virgin assist! d In servlntf le
floshinents. The relatives inesent
of the Oriental Temple of Hhrlners of frm ,ml ()f ,. wpro i;,Uvllt(1 jupUy
Troy, N. V. Ho was a member of thef Now Vorll rlty Mn)i (jt.,Kf, mick
Unlted Commercial Trnvelers' assocla- inghnni of Washington, D. C, and E.
Hon, In politics ho was a democrat. s, Maish of lliaiidon. Among the other
He wan a trusted of tho Methodist guests from away wero Col. and Mrs.
i.piscopnl Church, a valued worker , Walter .Scrantoii and daughter Miss
Minneapolis, Aug. 9. Charles E,
Hughes replying to Pocretnry Rodfleld's
telegram denying that E. Dana Durnnd
was forced out of office as director of
the census, to-day read to a largo audi
once here a letter from Mr. Durnnd In
which Mr. Durnnd said that lie had
told Redfleld he would resign, but
wanted to remnln, nnd that Redfleld
replied that the administration had de
cided on a change.
Mr. Durand's letter, road hy the nnm
Inoe In the course of nn open air speech
at the parade grounds hero, was In part
as follows;
Inasmuch ns the truth of your
statement with regard to tho change In
the dliectorshlp of the census has heen
challenged, I think It Is only fair to
you that I should make this statement
My resignation as director was dis
tinctly a forced resignation. At the
hist conversation I had with Secretary
Redfleld, 1 told him that 1 would re
sign, but that I hoped I would be per
mlttod to remain. He at once told me
that tho administration had decided
that it wanted to make a change. I bo
llevo 'to create a vacancy' were his
words. The next that I heard of it waf
nn announcement In tho press that my
successor had been named and I at
once wrote out my resignation."
Mr. Durand Is connected with the
Minnesota School of Agriculture.
Mr. Hughes then repeated his Do
troit declaration with reference to the
displacement of "an eminent scientist"
In the coast nnd geodetic survey by
nn excellent stock hrotder and vet
cilnnry surgeon."
Exception also has boon taken by
the distinguished societary with regan
to that man," tho nominee continued
Now, I am not In n position to state
of mv own knowledge the clri'iim
stances with leforence to the retire
mont of the eminent scientist who oc
cupied that important place. Rut if
may assume that he retired voluntarily
mv point is not so much the rotlienient
ol the man who went, hut tho charac
tor of the man by whom he was sue
coodod.
"I am now told that Mr. Jones, who
succeeded him, was promoted n ft
being deputy commissioner of fisheries
Hut he was appointed to that place
also Involving the need of technical
skill and training, by this ndminlstin
Hon. He went there from his stock
faun and took chaigo of tho bureau
Mr. Hughes wont Into detail as l
the charge he made In Detroit that th
administration had made "a raid upon
the civil service of the United States,
and concluded as follows:
"Wo must have higher stnndnrd
than those of the administration. Thi
administration, with loud professions
of devotion to civil service reform, h
not boon true to the standards of tho
administration which I believe Amerl
.an people desire to see enforced
Immediately after his speech hero,
Mr. Hughes motored hack to St. Paul,
where his piogram called for tho dellv
try of an address later.
of th" Sheldon drug store has gone on
10 days' vacation which ho will spend I Itaptlst parsonage for a few days. Mrs
in Oianvlllo, N. Y. Mrs. Eugene Car-I Stewart Andrews nf Boston Is vlsltlng.it
pentor has gone to Tlconderngn, N. Y.,
here she will spend a week. Mr. and
Mrs. Charles J. Seeley have gone to
Long Point, Lake Champlaln, where
they will spend throe weeks at their
summer camp. Timothy Hnlpln ot
Rutland, foinierly a resident of Mld-
dlehury nnd now a keeper nt the house
f correction. Is visiting relatives in
this section, having been called here
on account of the Illness of his brother.
Michael. Carl Hamilton of Hrldport,
one of tho best known sheep breeders
In Addison county, lias announced that
will be a candidate for assistant
Judge from tho southern district at tho
September primaries. Tho two Judge-
hlps are to fall vacant this year, as
both of the incumbents have announced
their Intention to contend for the two
onatorshlps. Tho Rutland Railroad
ompany has a gang of men here from
HAS $200,000 CAPITAL.
Cone Aiitnmntle Machine Co, of Wind
or Incorpnniten.
Montpeller, Aug 9. The Cone Auto
mntle Machine Co., Inc., of Wlnds-.r, or
ganized for tho purpose of manufacturing
nnd selling machinery of any type
character and ammunition, has Mod
articles of association Tho company has
capital stock of KOn.ioO with 2,fOi shares
and the Incorporator aro Frank L. Cono,
I'eulla F. C.illrais nnd Harry M. Davis,
all of Windsor.
Articles of association wero filed yes
terday with the secretary of Mnto by
the Nnrthfleld Publlshlnc company, Inc.,
with cnpltnl stock of JlO.Om. The sub
scribers are Frank T. Parsons, Ervai
M. Whitney and Edward II, Deavltt.
returned from a two weeks' visit to rela
tives and friends in var'xus places In Mas
... v. .
sai'titisolts anu .ow .y 3811rT ni
Houlla has commence.. O "JtKfo.r,
tho interior of the houso which no i.
lv purchased on South Main street. Fred
Smith has taken n position with tho In
ternational Harvester company of Amer
ica ns special truck salesman for northern
Vermont and Now York. Mortimer Drake
of Tlconderngn, N. Y., Is visiting at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Oscnr Cushman for
a few days. Mr. and Mrs E. O. Hunt
havo returned from Ilurllngton, where
they visited Mrs. Hnrry Hunt, who Is a
patient at the Mnry Fletcher hospital
Miss Kate Palmer has returned to (5l.ns
Falls, N. Y., after several davs with her
niece. Mrs. E. J. Wiley. Mrs. Charles
Seveianco Is a patient at tho Fanny Allen
hospital. -Miss Mary Sullivan has return
ed from Iluillngton, where she has been
visiting her sister nnd niece, Mrs. Ellen
nnd Miss Ruth Wright. -Mr. nnd Mrs
Louis Anderson nnd two children.
have returned home to Florence. Mr. and
Mrs. Walter Newton and Mrs. O. K. New
ton, who have heen visiting nt tho home
of Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Clement for a few
weeks, havo returned to Cambridge,
Mass.-Prof. Charles W. Killnm of Hnr
vard University, who has been visiting
his hrother-ln-lnw, the Rev. Roy E. Whit
tlmoro, nnd fnmllv for a few davs, has re
turned to his homeMr. nnd Mrs. Wll
Ham E. Robins nf Roston are visiting their
daughter, Mrs. Roy E. Whlttlmore. at tho
PERSONAL AID TO
AVER! BIG STRIKE
Will Be Last Resort of Railroad
Managers, Should Efforts of
U. S. Board of Mediation and
Conciliation Fail.
the home of her mother, Mrs. Mary Bond
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Reed are parents
of a son. Tho Rev. Charles S. Murkland
nf New York Is at his summer home hi
Rlpton for a fow weeks.
Frequent heavy showers during the
past two days havo done much to re
llevo the drought from which the farm
ing sections were suffering and the farm
ors aro already fooling much bettor as
tho fall potato crop was thought to be
In considerable danger from lack of
moisture. Miss Ruth Donnelly has ro
turned to Rutland after several weeks
with her father. Peter J. Donnelly
Miss Mildred Delphla has gone to TI
londeroga, N. Y., whore sho has a posl
tlon. Prof. F. E. Howard Is moving
from tho Fertlg farm to tho Hlglcy house
on South street, which he recently pur
chased. Mr. and Mrs. Wllllnm H. Stokes
nnd Mr. and Mrs. Clayton Hanks navi
iiuuanu maiung some extensive repairs, nnn ,n ,.-,., hv ntomoblle.-Stanlov
on iiie exterior oi mo raiiroau depot. Klavton aml j. A wilson of Hartford
T. T.. 11 TT n ...... ni..-lin.n I '
on.,.- ,11... in',', on, , .,i,K"..,.' ,'r.n.i tire anntirlni- n wool; In town
gone to l.UdlnW tM-. . nnrkrnn of York. Pa.
of Cornwall havo
and a teacher of tho Illhlo class,
Tho funeral will ho hold at his late
homo Friday afternoon nt two o'clock,
with burial at Waterbury Center.
Cheaper oil and gnsollnn before tho
end of tho month Is predicted by offi
cials of tho bureau of mines. Agents In
the Oklahoma oil field declare now wolls
aro being ripened up and established pro-
Cornelia of Enst Orange, N. ,1.. Miss
Katlieritie Mulcahoy of Elizabeth, N. .1.,
Miss Harriet Ripley and Miss Harriet
C. Taylor of Huston, Mr, and Mrs. (1. .
Del Cirella and Mrs. Charles llrndhiiry
of Now York city. Waterman's oi
chestra played,
MAX HEINR1CH DEAD.
New York, Auu. 9. -Max Helnrlch,
duce s aro drawing maximum fluw from , composer of Oerinnn songs, died hero
ho-
day. He wna CI ycara old.
MILL DAM HREAKS.
Much nninngi- Ilime t A. C. Cull Lum
ber Co. Plant by High Water.
East Enosburg, A'lK 9. The mill dam
nf the A. C Call Lumbar company was
washed nut nt seven o clock this evenlns,
doing much damage After an all-day
rain to-day tho water was hither than
at any time In the past 19 or -jo years.
No material dani.iKo ns -"o to bulld
Incs, but n latye quantity of logs were
unsht.l down. Seme -" -,l'.irs ago a
Blmllnr washout occiui"d, when the dam
ngo wnH considerable
WARN MOTORISTS.
Opening of Cn-""" :,,"" Mop In
Montpellir l'''ders In llnnKer.
Montnollor. All it 9.-Locnl authorities
have Issued a wainlm. to motm-Ms that
the opening of .-.it-'""'- "e .Hiving
through the city ni'ist stop nnd that nr
rests will follow disobeynnce of tho or
dor. The police offlrs have niH boon
uisti noted to apprehend drivers who a.o
exceeding tho fpoed limit, many com
Plaints having !'" 'od0,J1 "!
drlvlns In certain parts of tho city,
spend some time ns guests of Mr. and
Mrs. William Rallou. Miss Ida
Dragon, who Is convalescing after an
Illness of nearly two months, following
an operation, was taken to her home
in Rlpton Sunday. Mr. nnd Mrs. John
Harry of Columbus, N. M., aro In
town.
Elbert Forbes, the 10-year-old son of
Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Forbes of Case
street, while driving a colt from a pas
ture Into the barn yard was severely klck-
d in the left side of tho faro, just hjlow
tho eye. Ho was unconscious for qi lto a
few minutes. He was taken to tho houso
by ills father, who happened to lie noirby,
and Dr. P. S. Eddy of this I'llnee was
called and dressed tho wound, which re
quired six stlehos. Friday was the fith
birthday anniversary of Otis Abbey, who
Is hale nnrl hearty in his advanclno yoars.
As he is a Crnnd Army man a large Mini- I
her of members of William P. Riusell
J'ost, No. Ml, O. A. R., and of William P. !
Russell Circle, No. T,. Ladles of the O. A. I
)l , eallod upon him nt his home on South
mroet Frldny night nnd gave him a sur
prlso party. The visitors brought good
things to eat. Mr. Abhey served ns first
sergeant nf Co. E. llth Vermont.
'.Mrs. Wllllnm T. Porter. Mrs.
forgo E. Constantino nnd Miss Hat-
tie Porter of New York eltv are at Tho
Addison for tho summer. Mr. and Mrs.
Henjnmln Houlla, who have been visiting
at the home of his father, Fred Houlla,
and family for 10 days, havo returned to
Springfield, Mnss.-.Mr. and "Mrs. John E.
Wright of Shorehnm announce tho en
gagement of their younger rlnughte r, Mary
Catherine, to Scelev Smith Reynold-! of
Mld.llehury. Tho Mlddlebnry Marble com
pany Is rushed with orders. There are
about 2T. men employed there nnd more
would bo put to work If available. Dr.
Hoorgc D, Scott, n graduate of Middle
bury College, but now a doctor In Now
York city, Is spending some time with
Ira H. Latleur at Eagle Inn. Orwell. .Mr.
anil Mrs. William Nnylon and family are
moving Into town from Whiting. Miss
Helen Monta has returned to North Pen
nington nfter 10 days with her aunt, Mrs.
James Condon. Mlchnel J. Cronln is vis
iting at the home of Thomas McGlnlty In
eiioreham. Robert flavin nnd brother,
Thomas A. Oavlii, who have been visiting
In this vicinity for a month, havo returned
to Hudson Falls, X. V. Ceorge H Creg
orv and daughter, Ilss Edith Cregory,
who havo been visiting relatives In this
vicinity for a few weeks, have returned
to Shorbrooke, !, Q. .Mrs. Ferris Tatro
of Springfield, Mass., is in town. Miss j
Alice Hrnlnnrd of Berkeley. Oil., Is visit
ing her sister, Mrs. C. A. Adami nt her
camp nt Lake Dunmore. Mrs. Emily Pan-
teau Is confined to her moms In the Hat
tell block by Illness Dr. E. H. Mnrtln
and Prof. A. S. Hnrrlman have returned
from Goldsboro, whom thoy have spent
10 days, Dr. Martin has Improved greatlv
In his few dnys' stay there George Mead,
rlerk at the local postotflce, has resumed
his duties nt the pnstojllcrt after n two
weeks' vacation spent nt different places.
Dr. nnd Mrs. John Bralnard of Boston nro
visiting nt the homo of his brother, Dr.
Ezra Bralnnrd.
The recruiting station which was estnh.
Ilshed here a couple of weeks ago has not.
K far, boon very successful In gathering
new men for the 1st Vermont infantry.
Two lecrults who wero able to pass tho
physical examination have been enrolled
nnd sent to Fort Ethan Allen to Join the
forces soon to start for Texas. Several
others have been found who wero willing
to enlist, hut wero unable to pass muster
with tho doctor. The fnet Is thoro aro no
lillo young men In this vicinity and every
body Is now employed at good wages, so
that llfo on the Mexican border does not
greatly uppoal to them.
Mr. and Mis. Wllllnm H. Hldredge, who
hnvo been visiting lelatlves In Proctor,
FEDERAL MEDIATORS AT WORK
Employers Said to Be Willing to
Concede Shorter Day, but Not
Double Compensation for Dif
ferent Classes of Service the
Same Day.
are visiting at the homo of Mrs. Cork
rail's mother, Mrs. fiardner Walnwrlsht.
Miles Cnrtmoll of Sherbrook, Can., and
Alfred Cartmell of Palestine, Texas, are
In town on a visit to their nephew, James
R. Cartmeli, on Seymour street. Mrs. L.
C. Monahan and daughter, Helen, havo
enno to Massena, X. where thev are
visiting nt tho homo of Mr. nnd Mrs.
.Harold Abbott. Dr. C. Ford Langworthy
! of tho chemistry branch of the depart
j mont of tho Interior at Washington, a
i nntlve of Mlddlebnry, Is spending his va
' cation with relatives and friends here
and at Vcrgennes nnd will camp for a
couple of weeks at Thompson's Point
i Mrs. r. F. Knight nnd daughter, Miss
' Sarah Knight, nf Rutland, arc visiting
i In town Mr and Mrs. Phillip W. May
I hou, who havo been visiting his uncle,
Frank Mayhen, at Cornwall, for three
. weeks, have returned with their children
jto St. Armando. P. Q Miss Bertha Far
rell and niece have gone to Saratoga,
X. Y where they will visit her sister,
! Mrs. Tlnmanl Kavanaugh.
The Ladles' Aid of the Memorial Bap
tist Church will bo given a lecture and
demonstration on aluminum cooking
utensils by Mr. Stow ell of the Mnsso.
chusetts Agricultural College at Mrs. B.
H. Brown's Friday afternoon at 2:30
''clock, on Court street. Uefieshmcnts
will bo servod.
VERGENNES.
Dr. nnd Mrs. Dickey and family of
Boston spent Sundny with Col. and Mrs.
II. C,, Colby. -Dr Ford langworthy of
Washington, D. t, is visiting Ills undo
and nutit, Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Neville.
Dr. Langworthy Is here for his annual
vacation, part of which ho will spend
at the lake Mr and Mrs. George War
ner and daughter. Miss Dorothy, who
have been visiting his brother, Frank
M. Warner, have returned to Fltch
burg, M.n.ss Mrs. Frank M. Rogers
and children spent the week-end with
relatives In Bristol. Stewart, son of
Mr. and Mrs. Ira S. Barber, has return
ed from tho Mary Fletcher hospital,
where lie recently underwent an oper
ation. Mr. nnd Mrs. Arthur Allen
spent Sundny with her brother. Georgo
D. Mlddlehrook, at Rushmoro cottage,
Long Point. Mr. and Mrs. Charles Lo
Mayo and children of Bristol visited
relatives hero Sunday. Miss Ira Belle
McLean, a former resident, and niece
of Montreal nro visiting friends here
Mr. and Mrs. MoKee of Long Island, N
Y.. are visiting their sin, the Rev. J.
Elmer McKee, at St. Paul's Church rec
torv. Donald Watt spent Sunday with
Mr. and Mrs E. (I. Hevlns of Fairfax.
Mrs. Edward Lallam has gone to Pitts
ford Milintoiium for treatment for tu
berculosis. Mrs. Emma Colson, a for
mer resident, anil nor naugnier, .ui
Uernlce Colson of Belleville, 11!., are
guests of Mr and Mrs. H. M. Foote
Mrs. O. O. Manchester of Plttstieiu
Mnss., is spending two weeks with her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Allen Burroughs.
W a. Scott, w o Is employed in row
York city, Is spending a two weeks' va
cation with his wife nt their homo nn
Main street The condition of George
W Ross showed a slight Improvement
Mri,iv Al.lennnu and Mrs. Arthur
w Norton and children are at the Niu
ton cottage nt Mil" Point. Miss Hnttie
Wlnslow nnd Mis Fannin Brockonrldge
attended the Young People's mooting
nt iim si, ring Grove camp grounds
u,,,i v -Mr and Mrs. Beverly Chew
of Geneva. N. V , who havo been spend
lug u fow days with her parents, Col
.mil Mrs. Wnltor scrantoii at tne htev
ens House left Tuesday on a trip to Eng
land.
Amos 1'. Needliam has sold tho Kim
ball farm at Hnsln Harbor, consisting
nf 2(10 act es of land, to L. A. Aim
New York, Aug. 9. If the United States
Board of Mediation and Conciliation,
which was called In to-day, falls to ad
just the differences hetweeu the railroads
of tho country and their fO.ono employes,
President Wilson will be asked to use his
personal Influence to avert a gonaral
strike. This statement was made to-3ay
hy a representative r,f the railroad man
agers who have been negotiating with tho
men since Juno 1 for a peaceful settle
ment. The appeal to the President would be
the last resort and would bo taken only
to save the nation from the trade paraly
sis that would follow a strike of the mag
nitude planned by the railroad men
Late to-night the efforts of the fodend
mediators to hrlng the warring fa.rtlnne
together were well under way. Six hours
nfter tho railroad managers had served
potion on the men that they would not
withdraw their formal rejection of tho
workers' demands and had proposed fed
eral mediation, the mediators atui tho
managers wero closeted In secret session.
It was understood that the raJlroad
representatives outlined their position
in full nnd Indicated how far thoy wero
willing to go In mooting the demands
of the men. It was reported that tho
rallrnads stood steadfastly for tho
main feature of their "contingent pro
position," made at the June conference,
which conceded the shorter day, but
eliminated double compensation for
different classes of service during the
same work-day.
Tho failure of the representatives of
tho roilroads and tho unions tr apreo
on the elouble compensation clause
hrought tho June conference to a sud
den end and resulted in the strlko vote.
To-morrow, It was annouaood by
G. W. W. Hanprer, a member of thfl
board, the mediators will hoar tho rail
road employes' side of the case. Then
tho board will hold alternate, confer
ences with tho opposing forces, Mr.
Hanger said. When a basis for an un
derstanding has boon reached, the rail
roads and men will bo sepai ately asked
If they desire to place their cases In the
hands nf the board for final adjudica
tion. If the nn.'.wer is In the. affirma
tive, the contending forces will havo
to abide by the decision .of tho hoard.
. IS. Garretson, president of the
Order of Railway Conductors, and ofti
clal spokesman for the men, said that
unless the railroads mado satisfactory
concessions the men would rofuso to
bind themselves to federal mediation
and, unless something elso Intervened,
tho general strike would bo enforced.
As to the outcomo nf medlntlcm neither
Mr. Garretson nor any of the railroad
mnnngers would venture an opinion.
All wete optimistic.
have returned and will soon start on their j strong of Waterbury. Mrs. George
return trip to their homo In Twin Falls,
Idaho. William Condon, who got one of
his feet badly lnlure.1 nt the marble mill
a week ago when the ligaments of tho foot
wero severely wrenched, Is getting nlong
well and will soon ho nbln to resume
work. Jlr. ajid -Mrs. It, N, Llusloy havo
W
Stone visited tier sisier. .Mrs, u . u
Warner, at Thompson's point Satin day
Miss Nettle Calletto of Maplewood
N. J.. Is visiting her parents. II. L.
Whlttemoro of Derry, N. II., was in
(Continued ou pngo tno.)
EX-SENATOR THURSTON
DEAD; AGED 69
Native
l)lntli!Kiillieil Xrhninknn Was
of Miintpe lie r.
Omaha, Neh.. Aug. 9 - John M. Thur
ston, United States senator from Nebraska
from 1W. t 1901, died at his home
here early to-day. He was f.9 yoars old.
Mr Thurston was born at Montpeller,
Vt., August Z, 147. Ho woono of Presi
dent McKlniey s closest artvlsers and
during his service In Congress won na
tional notice as an orator.
150 LOSE LIVES IN
WEST VIRGINIA FLOOD
Charleston, W. Va.. Aug. 9. According
to officials of the Virginia Power company
to-night at least 150 persons have lost
their lives In the Cabin creok flood. Eleven;
bodies have so far been recovered. Many
persons have been seen clinging to debris
In the flood, but no assistance could b
given them. A Sunday school excursion
train which Is marooned near St Albans
Is said to have ." persons on board. Ef
forts to reach them havo failed.
Herrick Wins in Ohio.
Columbus, Ohio, Aug. 9. Myron H
Herrick of Cleveland, former ambas
sador to France, former U. S. senator
and Frank B. Willis, incumbent, for
governor on the republican ticket and
Atlee Pomereue. Incumbont for senator
and former Governor Jnmos M. Hunt,
for governor on the democratic ticket
will bo the stnndanl bearers In tha
Ohio compaigu ns tho result of tha
State-wide prlmnrlos ystonlay.
All four wore nominated hy decided
majorities. Full Stato tickets and
candidate for congress also warn named
by both parties. An abnormally la.rs
vote was cast.
Has $3.91 1.S8 Liabilities.
Lyndonvllle, Auk 9. Charles 1L Loa
tho well-known horse trainor and drivel
of Lyndonvllle, to-day filed with F. S,
Piatt, clerk of tho district court, A
voluntary petition in bankruptcy, through
Ills attorney, Guy W. Hill of St, Johns
bury. Mr. Leo gives his liabilities as J3,9H.f
and ills assets are J 2,090. 45, JST5 beltuf
claimed to bo exempt,
