iBSSBN(M
Is
- , mi '"" " ' ,, ' ' ' '' '
Principle, But Independent in Thought and Action. Devoted to Honesty, Truth and fronryiovermnent.
If'tuocratic in
VOL. 44
OKOLONA. MISSISSIPPI. THURSDAY, AUGUST 10. 1916
No. 33.
Okolona
Champ Clark
vyubtoty Worses
Sisson for Re-Election
Hon. T. U. Sisson. Congressman from this District, has done
more for the Fourth District and Yalobusha county in particular
than any other congressman since the civil war. Notwithstanding
this fact, for the sake of raising something by which to bolster up
a weak candidate, a few narrow-minded, unfair, factional politi
cians have attempted to circulate untruthful and misleading state
ments in regard to Congressman Sisson's standing in Congress and
with Administration leader.
The editor of the Herald did not believe the stories that Little
"Willie" and some of his crowd were trying to "float," but to put
a crimp in such disreputable, underhanded, dirty politics in this
county at least the editsr wrote to Hon. Champ Clark, Speaker of
the house, and put the question up to that distinguished official,
knowing that he would state the truth and the people of Yalobusha
county would not be mislead by any scheming politician.
Following is a reply to our letter of inquiry, it not only clears
the atmosphere of all the attempted misrepresentations, but is a
personal endorsement of Congressman Sisson by the one great citi
zen next to President Wilson in power, prestige and party leader
ship. The letter follows:
The Speaker's Rooms
House of Representatives
Hen. Louis C. Barber, Editor and Publisher,
Water Valley, Miss.
My dear Mr. Barber: It has never been my policy to interfere
with tights outside of my bai.iwick, but it would be churlish not to
k.i.-.vr your letter of inquiry concerning Hon. T. U. Sisson.
Replying to your inquiry 1 will say that I regard Tom Sission
as a very useful member of Congress. He not only works like a
Turk, but is always at his post and he is not mealy-mouthed or
afraid about expressing his opinions. He is a member of what is
perhaps the most important committee in the H6use the commit
tee on Appropriations, and it takes lots of nerve to resist the blan
dishment of people seeking to break into the Treasury through the
Appropriation Committee, and Sisson is always on guard to pro
tect the Treasury.
He is a debater knows how to take care of himself and his
committee.
So far as the talk about being antagonistic to the administra
tion's policies is concerned there is entirely too much of that sort
of twaddle. I do not remember whether Sisson ever differed with
President Wilson or not and if he did he had a pefect right to.
If the people of that district want a rubber stamp Congress
man they had better beat Sisson because he is not of that sort.
But if they want a man who looks after their interest continually,
they could do ne better than to re-elect the Hon. Thomas U.
Sisson.
Your Friend,
CHAMP CLARK.
North Mississippi Herald. (adv.)
Men of Experience
Needed in Congress
The campaign in the Fourth
Congressional District will soon
be brought to close. Congress
man Sisson's duties in Washing
ton have made it necessary for
him to remain at his post, and
it has not been possible for him
to be in the District and make
an active campaign.
The campaign made against
the Hon. T. U. Sisson by his two
opponents is purely in the nature
of a personal campaign. So far
as we know and have heard they
have made no charges upon hi3
public record. We are sure that
if this record had been bad, at
tention would have been called
to it, but if Mr. Sisson's record
is bad, then the record of the
Democratic administration is bad,
because he has on all essential
matters voted with the adminis
tration. One of the points urged
against Mr. Sisson in this cam
paign is that he has been there
long enough. It is urged that
no man should hold office for
more than two terms; that at the
end of that time he should get
out of the way and give some
body else a chance. That argu
ment is based upon the assump
tion that public office is simply a'
personal favor to be passed
around. If that be true then
two terms is too long. If limit
ed to one term it would be pass
ed to twice as many. Even at
that thousands of good men
could never be reached in their
turns.
But public office is not a
personal favor. It is a public
trust and should be filled by him
who can give the public the best
service.
Everything else being equal,
the man who has most exper
ience it: public afiairs is best
qualified to fill the position. To
accomplish anything worth while
in Washington a congressman
; must not only have ability, but
must be familiar with the
methods of procedure and have
a wide and influential acquaint
ance with other congressmen.
The longer one serves the more
knowledge, acquaintance and in
fluence he acquires and the
better service he can render the
people.
An inspection of the Con
gressional Directory shows that
the chairman of every important
legislative committee in Congress
has served many more than two
terms:
Hon. Champ Clark, Missouri,
Speaker of the House, has served
for .twenty-two years.
Hon. Claude Kitchen, North
Carolina, Chairman of the Ways
and Means Committee and Dem
ocratic Floor Leader, has served
for sixteen years.
Hon. J. J. Fitzgerald, New
York, Chairman of the Appro
priations Committee, has served
for eighteen years.
Hon. A. F. Lever, South Caro
lina, Chairman of the Committee
on Agriculture, has served for
sixteen years.
Hon. J. L. Burnett, Alabama,
Chairman of the Committee on
Immigration, has served for six
teen years.
Hon. W. C. Adamson, Georgia,
Chairman of the Committee on
Interstate and Foreign Com
merce, has served for twenty
years.
j Hon. Jas. Hay, Chairman of
ithe Committee on Military
I Affairs, has served for twenty
Hon. L. P. Padgett, Tennes
see, Chairman of the Naval
Affairs Committee, has served
for sixteen years.
Hon. John A. Moon, Tennes
see, Chairman of the Committee
on Post Offices and Post Roads,
has served twenty years.
Hon. Dorsey W. Shackelford,
Missouri, Chairman of the Com
mittee on Roads, has served for
eighteen years.
This list may be continued
through the important commit
tees of the House, and in each
instance it is found that only
men of long service are at the
head of these committees.
If one of these men, who now
accupies a chairmanship, had
CJme from a district in which
the two term rule prevailed he
could never have gotten to the
head of the committee and such
district would never have had a
chairmanship.
The office of Congressman is
one of very great importance to
the public. The people have not
usually chosen men to fill it who
had not previously gained some
experience in public matters by
service in lower offices. The
Congressional Directory further
shows that the men who occupy
important positions in Congress
are almost without . exception
men who had ripe public ex
perience before they were sent
to Congress. Of course now and
then some genius has sprung up
whose overpowering ability was
so great and so apparent that
the people have sent him to Con
gress without experience. But
usually one has been required to
show himself faithfnl at small
things before he is entrusted
with greater affairs. One is not
ordinarily made a General until
he has served as a captain and a
colonel.
Of course Mr. Sisson's friends
expect that he will have some
opposition due to the fact that
there are some men dissatisfied
who were applicants for post
offices and failed. We predict,
however, that this opposition
will not amount to much because
the people will understand that
Most of these applicants are
sensible and fair-minded men.
They understand that where
several ask for the same appoint
ment some must be disappointed.
As a rule they are not men who
would vote against a man simply
to gratify a grudge.
Mr. Sisson has been an able,
active and useful member cf
Congress. He has accomplished
ed much for the people and they
are not likely to put him asic e
simply to pass a personal favor
to a new untried man.
There are so many grave mat
ters before Congress just now
that it is important to keep tried
and experienced men on guard.
Kosciusko Herald. adv.
SISSON TO
THE VOTERS
GK' -
fl i 4 Ih jv If v 4" i m I 1 In, Ir s nr 1ah4wr
IU IIIC l (1111 N Ul UIH KilSiltt LUIJIIl
After a careful poll of the Eleven
Counties of the Fourth Congres
sional District, we are certain that
Mr. Franklin will be in the Second
Primary and we urge his friends
to go to the polls on Tuesday, Aug.
15th, and VOTE AND WORK and
a complete victory is assured. We also urge his
friends to be on the lookout for the last minute
Campaign Lie.
A vote for Franklin is an
Endorsement of Woodrow Wilson
FRANKLIN CAMPAIGN COMMITEE,
Pontotoc, Miss.
! Congress man From His Post of j
Du:y Addresses His !
Constituents
Explanation Enough.
Pamengar "Tha last station wr.
my destination, sab. Why, eah, dldi
you stop thsr!" Conductor"1'
dont stop there any more. The ( i
glneer is mad at the statloa agent.
Sacral Heart Review.
Let US I
Q)RIN1
SALE BILLS
To the People of the Fourth
Congressional District of Mis
sissippi: The election is close at hand.
My campaign has been clean and
honest. I have made no harsh
criticism of either opponent. I
have not mentioned the names of
opponents in the public press,
and rarely in personal letters, ex
cept in answer to inquiries of
my friends. My time has been
'pent at my post of duty, looking
after your interests. No public
duty has been neglected. Your
interest has come ahead of any
private or personal consideration.
Knowing that I was so engag
ed, and knowing also that it was
impossible for me to answer in
person, some political enemies
have within the last few days
made and published certain
charges of a grave and serious
personal nature. The charges
reflect upon my honor, integrity
and character. These eleventh
hour personal attacks are entirely
without justification and wholly
without foundation.' I believe
that the people of the district
are too intelligent to be caught
by such cheap political tricks
and that they will resent such
conduct as simply an effort in
the eleventh hour to win an
election by slander, villification
and abuse. I believe that such
tactics are out of date and will
meet with the contempt of all
honest, fair-minded people.
The people of the district
know me and know ray
record. I have performed the
duties of office to which you
elected me to the best of mj
ability. I have been true to
your every interest. I have en
deavored to fulfill your confi
dence in me. To my friends in
the district who believe in fair
and honest treatment I ask thin
you rise . up and by your votes
repudiate the unjust and unfair
methods which are being used
to defeat me in the closing hours
of the campaign. I am pro
foundly grateful to my loyal
friends who are fighting my
battl3s for me in my absence,
and when the victory is won it
will be theirs. I pledge the peo
ple of my district that every
effort of mind, heart and body
will be put forth in the future
as it has been in the past to
make them a congressman whom
no man in my district will ever
regret having supported.
Respectfully your friend,
(Signed) T. U. SISSON
Washington, D. D.
Praia.
Eplctetm, the philosopher, was
lame. When he tu a young man
his master had twisted his leg until
It broke. Eplctetus writes: "Do you
think that because my soul happens
to hare on little lame leg that I am
to find fault with Qod's untrerset
Ourht not whtn'vn Av whan wa
plow, and when we eat, to sing this
nymn to uoa, because he has given
ns these Implements whereby we may
till the soil? . . . What else can I
do, who am a lame old man. excent
a praises to OodT"
Queerest of 8ulcldes.
A man of sixty-three who becau
tired of life propped up a heavy cc
yer water tub and then placed 1':
bead tinder it and knocked away tt
prop. Death was Instantaneous.
Cheap Transportation Has
Built National Prosperity
,i.,;v' ,
" ."4 f
This is a big American freight engine.
It is an achievement of AMERICAN INVECTIVE GENIUS.
It ii built to HAUL LONG TRAINS loaded with the products of Amer
ican industry from the mines, farms, ulls and factories to the markets
of the country, and to the seaboard for shipment across the seas.
In all the wonderful history of American industrial progress NO
PIECE OF MACHINERY HAS PERFORMED SUCH SERVICE AS THX
BIO FREIGHT LOCOMOTIVE.
Freight is canted on our railroads at the LOWEST SATES IN THE
WORLD, while we pay our railroad workers the HIGHEST WAGES
IN THE WORLD. A TON OF FREIGHT IN THE EAST IS CARRIED
THREE MILES FOR THE COST OF A TWO-CENT POSTAGE STAMP.
Cheap transportation is one of the biggest builders of oar prosperity.
The big freight engine with its enormous tractive power, the big steel
freight car with its great carrying capacity, and the heavy rails and
rock-ballasted roadbed to support the weight of the great engines and
heavy trains these are the achievements of American industrial genius
which have given us low freight rates and broad markets, and have
enabled iw to put our products in the markets of the world in competition
with foreign manufacturers. ,
But now come well-meaning but short-sighted leaders of American
railroad workers who say to the railroad managers:
"SHORTEN YOUR FREIGHT TRAINS so that the enginemen and
trainmen can haul the tonnage faster over the roads, and so make as many
miles pay in eight hours as they now do in ten hours."
To the State Legislatures these same spokesmen for the railroad work
ers say:
"Pass laws LIMITING THE LENGTH OF FREIGHT TRAINS we
oppose big tonnage trains."
To the Farmers, Manufacturers, and Merchants they say:
"With shorter freight trains railroads can move your products faster
to the markets."
To the American Public that pays every dollar of the railroad bill
(and 44 cents of every dollar paid for transportation is for wages),
they say:
"All that the railroads have to do to meet our demands for higher
wages is to shorten their trains, move the freight more rapidly and escape
the penalty of overtime wages."
What would be the result of taking these leaders of the 330,000 train
employes at their word shorten freight trains so that they can be run
at higher speed!
Increasing the number of trains to handle the same tonnage would
call for more employes to d the same work, more tracks, larger yards and
terminals, more supervision, aad it is plain that there would be more con
gestion of traffic and greater hasards in train operation. Hundreds of mil
lions a year would have to be spent by the railroads to increase their facili
ties and to operate the bigger plant
IT WOULD BE AKIN TO USING HAND SHOVELS INSTEAD 0?
FIVE-TON STEAK DREDGES TO DIG A PANAMA CANAL.
American railroads have spent enormous amounts ia reducing grades,
cutting dewn mountains and filling up valleys; in increasing the hauling
power of locomotives and the carrying capacity of can; in putting down
rock ballast and heavy rails all for one purpose, to lower the cost of
operation.
It is the publie that has reaped the benefit in better and cheaper
railroad terviee.
Way of the World.
The girl who declares she woaldnl
snarry the best man living usual!)
stands pat and hooka up with a deU
If the railroads moved their tonnage in shorter trains at higher speeds,
the public, it is seen, would have to shoulder a great burden in the in
creased cost of transportation.
Would the public get value received for its money!
Of the tonnage on the roads east of Chicago 60 per cent consists of
coal, coke, ores, stone and other mine products. To the publie it is of no
consequence whether this freight is a few hours longer on the road, so
long as there is a continuous and regular stream of it coming to the
markets.
FOUR-FIFTHS OF ALL THE TONNAGE MOVING IN THE EAST
IS MADE UP OF LOW GRADE, SLOW MOVING FREIGHT, CARRIED
AT THE LOWEST RATES IN THE WORLD.
To abandon the big freight trains on American railroads in order to
increase the speed at which the bulk of the traffic moves, and thereby
enable the train employes to earn higher wages in shorter hours, would
place a great burden oi American industry without giving the public
any tangible benefit
O
