State Hiotoricol Soc,
T
ANEY
OUNTY
EPUBLICAN
Vor.. 21. No. 39.
FORSYTH, MISSOUU1, THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1916
Four Pages.
Missouri Crop Report
While scattering !hnvers have
brougl.t ten p'.rary relief in a few
counties, practically the entire state is
in urgent need of rain, according to
the monthly cro.) report of the M s
souri State 1 nard of Agriculture. This
report, based upon August 1 condi
tions and todav, is as follows:
The month of July in Missouri was
marked by much intense heat and
very limited rainfall. At Columbia
the pr"cipi'a'Kn was but 0 67 inches
as compared with 3 65 inches as nor
m;ii for July. In nnny counties the
rainfall would have been sufficient for
the immediate netds of growing crnp,
except f)r the high temperatuie.
However, the heat of July and fxces
sive nins earlier iu the season, com
bined to pn duce most uns.uiactory
conditions.
Corn While corn has not stiff red
as much from hot winds as did the
crop of 1911, the condition, due to
the unfavorable dis'ribuiion of moisture
and to the impossibility of proper cu ti
vation, is now 4 points lower than for
that year. Taking the state as a whole,
correspondents phce corn at 57.2.
On August 1 1911 it was 61.2. On
August 1, 1901, the low record of 21
was recorded. The 10 year August 1
condition is 77.7. During the month
just ended corn st.ff red a loss cf
22 2 points. Present condition cf
corn, by crop division sectiou, is:
Northeast, 62; Northwest, 69; Centra',
56; Southwest' 43; Southeast, 56.
Owing to the wider distribution of ihf
1916 planting season as compared
with that of 1911 and to the greater
"spread" in the growth and maturity
of corn, it is not improbable that with
ample rainfall during August, the pres
ent crop may equal that of five years
ago, but with continued dry hot weath
er (it will fall far short. The 1911
crop averaged 25.3 bushels per acre,
a total yield of 191,334,000 bushels.
Wheat With 53 per cent of the
1916 wheat crop threshed, indications
are that the final yield will not exceed
8.5 bushels per acre, as compared
with the earlier estimate of 9.9 bushels.
Many fields are failures and yields of
from 3 to 6 bushels are not uncommon.
When all threshing returns are in, in
dications are that the Board of Agri
culture's preliminary forecast of 15,
000,000 bushels for the state will stand.
A large per cent of the crop has been
stacked. Average selling price of new
wheat on August 1 was (1.10. Prac
tically no plowing has been done for
wheat. Correspondents report ground
to dry and hard that but 1.5 per cent
has been plowed. This is the lowest
August 1 plowing recorded in this
office and indicates a very limited
acreage of wheat to be seeded this fall.
Oats Correspondents report 45
per cent of the Missouri oat crop
threshed. The yield is placed at 24 7
bushels. It was at first thought that
the crop would average 30 bushels,
but the threshing returns have not
been up to expectations. The state
yield is now figured at about 25,000,
000 bushels.
Hay Missouri has this year pro
duced one of the best hay crops in her
history and the hay crop of 1915 was
valued at almost $40,000,000, or more
than wheat and oats combined. The
1916 hay crop has been saved in fine
shape, and with an abundance of feed
in stacks, ricks and mows, any shortage
in corn cribs will cot be serious.
Yield in timothy hay is estimated at
1.3 tons; mixedy timothy and clover,
1.4 tons, with an acreage of 110 as
compared with last year. Prairie hay
Indicate! a yield of a little more than
one too per acre. Considerable timo
thy has been harvested for seed, and
the clover teed crop promises well.
Alfalfa Is proving its worth as a drouth-
resistant crop.
Pastures, and Stock Pastures espe
cially where over stocked earlier in the
leason, have failed rapidly. On the
other band, whre pastures have been
properly cared for and not grazed to
rx:esi, grass is still supplying much
good feed. Condition for the state, is
63.2, being highest in the Northwest
and lowest in the Southwest section.
j From sections where drouth has been
ni"M tevrrc come repnr.s m cuws inn
ing in milk production. In these sec
tions, too broid sows, half fa hogs and
cattle are being marketed, but there is
no scre and farmers generally are
holding on to their stock, which is be
low normal in numbers.
Other Crops The Missouri apple
crop has dropped to 43.4, while the
peach crop is only about 15 per cent.
Condition cl broom corn is 67; flax
74; melons 52; tobabco, 69; cotton,
85; cowpeas. 73; alfalfa, 77.
Dangerous to "Swap"
One of these things that the recent
Repub'ican primaries emphasized in
various ways was that Missouri is a Re
publican State and that campaigns
must herealter be conducted fcr victory
for the party instead of fur any merely
personal or selfuh interest. The Re
publicans now have a s'rong ticket and
the principal business of the party or
ganizir'on must be to elect it by the
largest majority possible. To this end
there should be no charge in the party
managment except whete such change
is urgently necessary to promote the
purpose of victory. This is particular
ly true of the State Committee's cam
paign organization. A change in the
State campaign management now
would mean that a new organization
would have to begin all over again and
prepare for and make the greatest cam
paign in the history of Missouri in
about six weeks, which would be the
amount of time left after the new
committee could get organized.
Those who know all that is involved
know that this cau't be done efficient
ly. The Democratic legislature that passed
the State primary law made the primary
election date late so as to forestall Re
puplican organization in time for an
aggressive campaign. Tiie position of
State Chairman is not to be filled in
the interest of the whole ticket and
the party. It was Lincoln who said
that it was poor policy "to swop horses
in the middle of the stream." Our
horses are alright, so let's not take the
risk of swopping.
His Mistake
The apopletic1 little man pounded
the counter with his apopletic little fist.
"I never dealt here before and I'll
never deal here again!" he shouted.
"The managment here is rotten. You
have nothing, nothing! I'll try once
more. Have you any canned toma
toes?" "No sir; sorry, sir," replied the
clerk.
The apopletic little man crushed his
hat farther on his head and bit his lips
until the blood came. He consulted
the list in his hand.
I'll give you another chance! Have
you any potatoes? Think carefully
now!"
"Not a potatoe in the place."
"Ye godsl Well I'll give you one
more chance. I'd like to see the end
of this. Have you any" sugar?"
"Not a grain sir."
The apopletic little man sat down
on a stool and let his list flutter to the
floor. "And you call this a grocery
store?" he said tauntingly.
"No sir," corrected the clerk mildly.
"This is a hardware store."
The apopletic little man threw a fit.
Here's a Hot One
The wife of a western hardware deal
er answered her door bell and found a
peddler on the front porch.
He was selling the greatest potato
pare r ever invented," and he gave a
demonstration that convinced her at
once, and she handed over the quarter.
When the husband came home, she
showed him her bargain, and told him
what the paid lor it. Imagine her
consternation when he said:
"I have a gross of these down in
the store, and I sell them (or 10 cents
when I find a purchaser."
The woman always has the last word
and hen was to the point: "Then, for
goodness sake, why don't you let peo
ple know what you have for sale.?"
Moral: Advertise to your home
town paper then your own wife won't
ever "get stung."
Senator Reed of Missouri believes
and has told his colleagues in debate
that if our troops are withdrawn from
the border the Mexicans will at once
begin to ravish American women, to
destroy American property and to
murder American citizens. Yet the
administration which Senator Reed up
holds has recognized a de facto govern
ment in Mexico because of the belief
that that government was stable and
capable of maintaining order.
The New York Sun believes that
future historians will classify the dip
lomatic notes of the Wilson adminis
tration undir the heads ol Vinegar,
Pepper, Sugar ai.d molasses, but never
as Aqua Fortis. Why not add Milk
and Water to the list?.
The Lord watch between n;e and thee, when wc are
absent one from another. Gbn. 31:49.
Go thou thy way, and I go mine
Apart yet not afar;
Only a thin veil hangs between
The pathway where we are.
And "God keep watch 'tween thee and me,"
This is my prayer.
He looks thy way he looketh mine,
And keeps us near.
I know not where the road may lie,
Nor which way mine will be;
If thine will lead through parching sands,
And mine beside the sea;
Yet God keeps watch .'tween thee and me,
So never fear;
He holds thy hand, he claspeth mine,
And keeps us near.
Should wealth and tame, perchance, be thine,
And my lot lowly be;
Or you be sad and sorrowful,
And glory be for me;
Yet God keeps watch 'tween thee and me,
Both are His care.
One arm round thee and one round me
Will keep us near.
I sigh sometime to see thy face,
But si:.cc this may not be,
I'll leave thee to the care of Him
Who cares for thee and me.
"I'll keep thee both beneath My wings,"
This comforts dear.
One wing o'er thee and one o'er me,
So we are near.
And though our paths be separate,
And thy way be not mine,
Yet, coming to the mercy-seat,
My soul shall meet with thine
And "God keep watch 'tween thee and me,"
I'll whisper there.
He blesseth thee, He blesseth me,
And we are near.
Julia H. Baker.
Charles E. Hughes, the Republican
candidate for President, is going to
make a swing through to the Pacific
coast. The more the people see and
hear of Mr. Hughes the more they are
impressed with his splendid character,
decided ability, courage and clear
understanding of governmental affairs.
New Philadelphia (Ohio) Advocate
Tribune. A Washington correspondent discus
sing the President's chances in the
election thinks it is almost certain that
he will poll not only a larger vote than
he did in 1912, but a larger vote than
has any of the Democratic candidates
bofore him." He will have to let us
add, if he is to be elected. In 1912
Wilson received 6, 293,019 votes, the
It is said that the on'y definite speak
ing engagement which the President
has made is for Kentucky in Septem
ber. Last year the president wrote
letters into Kentucky and succeeded in
reducing the Democratic plurality for
Governor from 31, 331, as it was in
1911, to 471. By going there in per
son this year he ought to produce a
Republican margin of about 25,000.
Mr. Redfield reports that the high
cost of living in 1915 was reduced "1
per cent net" but didn't he mean "1
per cent nit?j Boston Transcript.
Calling out the militia may have
been a political move, but it will not
stuff the ballot box with votes for the
Democratic ticket. Washington (Pa)
News.
combined vote against him was 8,743,
523, of which the combined Talt and
Roosevelt vote was 7,604,463. Wilson
received fewer votes in 1912 than any
Democratic candidate for the Presiden
cy in twenty years save only Altou
B. Parker, who enjoyed in 1904 the
support of Mr. Bryan which Wilson
is to have this year nnd which sue
ceeded in netting to Parker only 5,
077,911 votes. Bryan three times
got more votes than Wilson did, while
united Republicanism ti.ree time
snowed Mr. Bryan under. United
Republicanism will do the same for
Mr. Wilson.
The Democratic policy is "Buv
where you can buy the cheapest."
The Republican policy is "Buy it
made-in-America."
Mr. Hughes on Mexico
Mr. Hughes placed fitting empha
sis on two facts in Mr. Wilson's Mexi
can policy which illustrate both its in
sincerity . and futility. Quoting that
member of the cabinet who recently
confessed that the Vera Cruz expedition
was not "to force Huerta to salute the
flag," but "to show Mexico that Huer
ta fnust go," he placed responsibility
for that inglorious expedition where it
belongs. And in recalling the fact
during this invasion of Mexico to over
turn the only government that country
had, representatives of European gov
ernments had to give our citizens at
Tampico protection which our country
would not extend, he proves that nat
ional humiliation, in the failure of the
expedition to serve its ostensible pur
pose and in its failure to protect its
own nationals against the fury among
the Mexicans by that failing attempt,
is the net results to the United States
of the president's use of the army and
navy to serve his prejudices against
"the individual."
The Globe-Democrat had repeatedly
charged, before the confession quoted
by Mr. Hughes was made, that the ob
ject of the expedition to Vera Cruz
was never any other than the overthrow
of the only authority in Mexico then
discharging any of the (unctions of
government in that country, which was
according all foreigners a degree of
protection, and with the overthrow of
whfch real chaos in Mexico began.
The Republican candidate for presi'
not less unerring in citing the letter
of Secretary Lansing, showing conclu
sively that outlawry and banditry great
ly increased following the Huerta over
throw, and that the number of Amer
icans killed, imprisoned or despoiled
in the country was many times greater
than the number who suffered under
the strong defacto government Mr.
Wilson used our army and navy to eud.
The .'acts are indispu able, the fig
ures unanswerable. A natural devel
opment in any country, following the
overthrow of a defacto government by
a foreign force, must be demoralization
and chaos, during a period, long or
short, before a lawful government can
be set up in place of that deposed.
Mr. Wilson knowing the wretched
condition of the Mexican people, took
a course which he should have known
wuld increase their sufferings in or
der to punish aa individual who had
declined to allow this country to sup
ervise and dictate the terms of a Mex
ican election. Globe-Democrat.
Roosevelt o.i Wilson and Hughes
"Mr. Wilson has been tried and
found wanting. His party, because
ol its devotion to the outworn
theory of State rights, and because of
its reliance upon purely sectional sup
port stands against the spirit if far
sighted nationilism which is essential
if we are to deal adequatley with our
gravest social and industrial problems.
Mr. Wilson and his party have in
actual practice lamentably failed to
safeguard the interest and honor of the
United States. They have brought us
to impotence abroad and division and
weakness at home. They have ac
customed us to see the highest and
most responsible offices of Govern
ment filled by incompetent men ap
pointed only for reasons of partisan
politics. They have dulled the moral
sense of the people. They have
taught us that peace, the peace of
cowardice and dishonor and indifference
to the welfare af others, is to be put
above rigeteousncss, above the stern
and unflinching perfumance of duty,
whether the duty is pleasant or un
pleasant. Yet in Mexico they have
failed to secure the peace which they
thus sought and they have failed in
spite cf the most ample opportunity
and most ample warning to prepare in
any real fashion to meet the crisis
which their own policy invited. They
fuve taught us to put "safety first,'
safety belore honor and duty; to put
that materialism which expresses itself
in mere money making and in the fat
ted ease of life above all spiritual
things above all the high and fine in
itiucts ol the oul. They have taught
us to accept adroit elecution as a sub
stitute for straight-forward and efficient
action. They have raised indecision,
hesitancy, and vacillation into a set
tled governmental policy.
Mr. Hughes has shewn in his career
the instinct of efficiency which will
guarantee, that under him, the Govern
ment will once more work with vigor
and force. He possesses that habit of
straight-forward thinking which means
that his words will be correlated with
his deeds and transacted into facts.
His past career is the warrant for our
belief that he will be the unfaltering
opponent of that system of invisible
government which finds expression in
tha domination of the party boss and
party machine. His past career is a
guaranty that what he says before
election will be made goood by his
acts after election. Morally, his pub
lic record shows him to be a roan of
unbending integrity; intellectually it
shows him to be a man of original and
trained ability. We have the alternat
ive of continuing in office an adminis
tration that has proved a lamentable
failure or putting into office an admin
istration which we have every reason
to believe will function with efficiency
for the interest and honor of all our
people. I earnestly bespeak from my
fellow Progressives their ungrudging
support of Mr. Hughes."
The Senatorial Nominee
The sweeping victory of Walter S.
Dicky in the senat orial primary affords
ample proof that he is an unusual or
ganizer, one whos Judgment is not im
paired by his personal candidacy. Mr.
Dickey is famous as a winner. His
rise in the business world from a minor
salaried position to the ownership of an
establishment without an equal in its
line, is evidence of his personal ability
and energy as well as an example cf
America's wonderful opportunities.
But Mr. Dickey has not beep so en
grossed in his personal business as to
neglect public duties. Accepting
the principles of the Republican party,
without bias of heredity, as a first voter,
he has been always zelous in promoting
their triumph. He has served his
party in many relations, always loy
ally and always successfully. His re
cord for never having lost a fight was
responsible for his selection as chair
man of the Republican State Commit
tee in 1908. That record gained new
luster by his magnifkient campaign
which elected Hadley as governor and
put the electoral vote in the Republi
can column. When he entered the
senatorial race, it was a foregone con
clusion that he would win the nomi
nation, if he could campaign as effect
ively for himself as he had always cam
paigned for others. Some of the coun
try's greatest leaders have failed under
such a test, but Mr. Dickey has dem
onstrated that he has the admirable
poise necessary to such a feat.
The people of Missouri will have the
opportunity in November to elect a
senator who will at once take the place
in the councils of the nation. He has
a knowledge of the questions which
will be most vital in the process of
industrial readjustment the end of the
war will necessitate. He has studied
rail and water transportation problems.
He is a good road enthusiast. He
understands the details of commerce.
He knows the economic needs of Mis
souri. Although he made his first ex
temporaneous speech only a year ago,
and has none of the oratorial tricks that
captive the gillery, he thinks well on
his feet andexpresses himjelfin clear,
forceful English. Bat his greatest
strenth in theSenate would be his pow
er to convince his colleag ues, man to
man. The most effective senators have
been of this type. The professional ro
ators in that body are merely tolerated by
the other senators. But the diligent,
earnest, level-headed, patriotic senator,
who is seeking the good of his consti
tuents instead of personal notoriety, is
never without real influence. The Re
publicans of Missouri are fortunate in
being able to present such a candidate
this year. Globe-Democrat.
