DAILY TIMES
JL JO. iLLi JOjlJL-IL
VOL. XX NO. 123.
HAKHK. VERMONT, TIIUIISDAV. AUGUST 10, 1910.
PIUCE, OXK CENT.
E
ARE N EARING
STANISLAU
Russians Have Captured the
Railway Station of
Kuplin
FRENCH ADVANCE
NORTH OF HEM WOOD
.Victorious Duke Aosta Pur
suing Austrians from
Gorizia
Petrograd, Aug. 10. Tim rapture by
the Russians of tin- railway station of
Kryplin on the Stanislau railroad lias
been officially announced.
NORTH Of-' r WOOD
FRENCH ADVANCE
Only Intermittent Cannonading on Ver
dun Front Is Reported by Paris A
German Aeroplane Destroyed.
Paris, Aug. 10. Further progress for
the French troops north of Hem wood
in the Soninie sector in announced ly the
war office. Rain impeded operations
north of the Soninie. Only intermittent
cannonading is report"d from the Verdun
sector. There were 1.1 battles in the air
yesterday on the Somme front, and a
German aeroplane was destroyed.
TWO SUSPECTS HELD
IAATTD PI AIMPn
IN BLACK TOM CASE "HILI ULRimi-L
OVER 100 LIVES
Both Produced Persons Who Said They
Were in Another Part of Jersey
City When the Big Explo
sion Occurred.
Jersey City, X. .1.. Aug. 10.Th draw
inj; f half-propelling torpedo with an
envelope addressed to .John 1. Rockefel
ler ami notebook containing the nim
and address of President. Wilnon was
found among the fleets of Filing Iver
Mm, who, with. Axeiii i.arsen, was ar
rested under suspicion of complicity in
the Black Tom inland munitions cxplo
sion.
Although Ihi1i produced persons who
told the authorities that they were with
them in another part of the city at the
time of the explosion, the pair are being
held pending an investigition into their
history. Iverson said the drawing was
his and that he designed it. In un un
posted letter to his mother Iverson told
of the fright he got when lihiek Tom
blew up mid he said there were still
eight cars of ammunition in the Pluck
Tom vard.
CHANGES AT TABOR'S.
Ordered By the Vermont Public Service
Commission.
As the result of a hearing held at
Muiitpclicr January H, jniH, in response
to a petition to the public service emu
mission by (he city of Montpelier to have
the the grade crossings in the vicinity
Rescue Parties Are Working)"! Th?
Desperately in West
RAILROADS MUST
DISCLOSE FACTS
Virginia
TWO VALLEYS SWEPT
AFTER CLOUDBURST
Property Damage Is Esti
mated to Amount to
$2,000,000
has ordered that the crossing be abol
ished.
At this point, lilies of the Montpelier
Wells River K. R. and the Central
Vermont K. It cross the main traveled
road l-teen Montpolier and Barre. The
Central Vermont tracks cross the high,
way three times and the M. & W. It.
tracks cross twice. '
To eliminate these conditions the pub
lie service commission bus ordered the
Montpelier Sl Wells River K. K. to lay
out and construct a highway starting at
a point on River street at its present
grade and running in nearly direct lino
to the Coffee house road. also to con-
street a bridge over the Winooski and a
overpass over the tracks of the Biirre
branch ami the M. & W. R. railroads.
the bridge over the river is to Ito of
teel construction with a three inert
F. W. SUITOR
AGAIN HEAD
Barre Man Re-elected Pres
ident of Vermont
A. F. of L.
COMMITTEE MEETS
BARRE MERCHANTS
Last Night a Mass Meeting
and Banquet Were Held
Gov. Gates Speaks
Concerning Their Political Expenditures,
According to Brief Filed in Su
preme Court By Chief
Counsel Polk.
Washington, Aug. 10. The right of
the interstate commerce commission to
inquire into the political expenditures of
thu railroads is upheld in a brief tiled in
the supreme court by Chief Counsel
J oik in the commissions action to com
pel President Smith of the liouisville ft
Nashville, railroad to testify in regard
to that carrier's campaign contributions.
Charleston. W. Va., Aug. 10.- Rescue plank flooring and will be supported bv
parties worked desperately to day in su concrete, abutments. The' overpass will
effort to make their wav tin tho Cabin!' wooticn nriuge with tliree Inch Moor
creek and Coal river valleys, which for
MEDIATORS HOPEFUL
As They Began First Conference on Rail
road Situation.
20 miles southward from the Kanawha
river were devastated yesterday by a
cloudburst, which caused the death of
more than 100 and a property loss of
2,H),00.
Because of the topography of the coun
try, state authorities express a belief
that it. will be several dnvs birfore the
fill! extent of the tlood can be learned.
At least eight villages and mining set
tlements were either wholly or partially
destroyed, while manv others felt the
effect of the storm
nig. I ho bridges are to nave a 20-foot
roadway and shall be designed to allow
for a uniform load of 100 pounds to the
square frtot. There will be headroom of
22 feet between the tops of the rails and
the underside of the overpass.
Thu highway to be constructed will
have a 25-foot breadth anil will be sur
faced with gravel. Plots of land belong
ing to the I'nion Block Co., the Montpc!-
ier and Barre Traction and Power Co.,
and to II. S. Tabor will be confiscated in
order to make the changes.
The work has been ordered completed
by January I. 1P17. Because of the ad-
tional In-nefits derived by the city of
Tg companies of 'the National Guard I 'I"-r reason of the construction
entrained for the flood rone to day, with
tents, provisions ami medical supplies.
They will proceed by rail as far as pos
sible and then march to the devastated
points.
Huntington, W. Va Aug. 10. Gov.
Hatfield, who arrived here la.t night to
MORE RUSSIANS
ARRIVE IN FRANCE
Contingent of Troops Arrived at Brest
and Was Given an Enthusi
astic Welcome.
Brest. Aug. 10. Another contingent of
Russian troops has been landed here
They were given an enthusiastic wel
come.
GORIZIA DAMAGED
BUT NOT GREATLY
Triumphant Italians Found Great Many
Dying Austrians and Duke Aosta Is
Pursuing the Fugitives.
Rome, Aug. 10. Operations which led
up to the capture of Gorizia by the Ital
ians are described in the official narra
tive. They began Aug. 4 when the Ital
ians stormed two hills in the Monfalcone
ectian, the enemy using bombs that
gave off poisonous gases. The Italians
fell back, Aug. 6, stupefied. Then the
Italian artillery hailed a tempest of
shells unexpectedly on the rocky barriers
which defend Jsonzo and Gorizia while
the infantry advanced with a dash and
carried Snbotino and other ramparts in
the Monfalcone sector. Berzagliri cy
clists, after a desperate struggle, stormed
the defenses, repulsing furious counter
attacks upon the imposing barrier that is
formed by the heights west of the city
then attacked. The battle ebbed and
flowed for three days, but the heights
were finally captured at a cost of sacri
rices to the Italian infantry.
Notwithstanding the desperate fight
ing around Gorizia, the city suffered
little damage, and when Duke Aosta en
tered after forcing the bridge across the
river, Gorizia was found deserted save
for great numbers of dying Austrians.
New York. Aug. 10. The federal hoard
of mediation and conciliation held it ' atleml the Republican state convention,
first conference to-dav with the railroad ordered special relief trains to the Coal
brotherhood's representatives in an effort
to prevent a trike. It is understood the
brotherhood spokesmen said they were
firm for their demands and saw little
chance of reaching an adjustment. The
mediators are hopeful.
TOOK SECRET WITH HIM.
W.
Duke Aosta's Army Pursuing Austrians.
Paris, Aug. 10. A IIavas Rome de
spatch says that Duke Aosta's army
continues the pursuit of the Austrians.
ADVANCED 200 YARDS
British Progress Covered Breadth of 600
Yards.
London, Aug. 10. The British official
6tatement last night was as follows:
"Northwest of Pozicres the Austra
lians advanced our lines 200 yards on a
frontage of tiOO yards. Otherwise the
situation is unchanged.
' "As a result of aeroplane co-operation
with our artillery, several enemy guns
were destroyed and some magazines ex
ploded. A train was set afire by bombs
dropped from our aeroplanes.
'Hostile aircraft have !cen most ac
tive, but obviously have been trying to
avoid combats. Several enemy machines,
however, have wen damaged by our aero
planes and infantry fire."
J. Philbrick, Maine Farmer, Died
from Bullet Wound.
Corinna, Me., Aug. 10. No arrest for
tho mysterious shooting of Weyland J.
Philbrick, a prosperous farmer, who died
late last night at the Emerson McVelty
hospital in Corinna, was made. Philbrick
was shot rarlv J uesday morning tiv a
man who called at bis farm on the IJex
ter road and asked for assistance for i
broken-down automobile. Philbrick diet
taking his secret to the grave with him.
Though he expected to die, the victim
stoutlv refused to give the name of tlm
nmn who did the shooting, though the
authorities are pretty certain he knew
the man who, late in the night, called
him from his bed ami after a short con
vcrsation nulled a ,32-calibre revolver
and shot him through the abdomen. Phil
brick stoutlv maintained that the gun
man had the lower part of his face cov
ered with a handkerchief and that he
failed to recognize him.
The injured man also told the officers
certain facts regarding his aflairs during
the past year, in which'may lie a motive
for the shooting. It is understood that
the name of a neighbor and his wife play
an important part in the story told by
Philbrick to Deputy Sheriffs Levensetter
of Dexter and Welch of Corinna.
The shooting of Philbrick caused a real
sensation in this little town, and Interest
in the case has in no way abated. The
victim, an unmarried man of 48 years,
was well known and was noted for his
kindness toward poor neighbors. That
he had an enemy m town was a surprise
to a majority of the citizens of Corinna.
The idea that perhaps a woman may
have been he cause of his death has add
ed to the sensational features of the
case.
river and Cabin creek districts, where,
according to reports at least 1.10 have
1m -en drowned and 5,000 people made
homeless. Two companies of the Na
tional Guard have been ordered with
tents to the flooded districts. So serious
is the situation that Gov. Hatfield left
the city lust night to go to the scene of
the devastation.
According to officials of the Virginia
of the steel bridge over the Winooski the
city agreed at the hearing to pay 2.1 per
cent of the expense of the work instead
of the statutory proportion of ten per
cent provided to be borne by municipali
ties. The rest of the expense will be
Mrne in proportions of 2.1 per cent each
by the state, the Central Vermont rail
way and the Montpolier ft Wells River
rail war.
ENGINE SUNK IN MUD.
Train Schedules Interfered with By
Heavy Rainfall.
St. Johnsbury, Aug. 10. Ileavv show
ers to the north which later developed
into a steady rain tliat raised rivers and
HIIUrt . . 1 I 1 . , ,
Power Co. at least 1.10 person, have lost f ' .l"e "n wau'r ..m"K. V
Kleven bodies h.ve fur ' asm,,,s " lwo P0,nl' Mill.
NOT TOO PROUD TO FIGHT
ANXIOUS TO PACIFY IRELAND
Pope and Statesmen of the Vatican Are
Taking Steps.
London, Aug. 10. The Liverpool Pot
fays the pope and statesmen of the Vat
ican are most anxious for the pacifica
tion of Ireland. The rector of an Irish
college in Jiome has been in close asso
ciation ,with diplomats of the Vatican
and has conferred with divines who en
joy the pope's confidence, including Car
dinal Gasquet, who has recently been in
England.
CATCHING UP WITH ORDERS.
Unites States Steel Corporation Shows
46-Ton Decrease.
New York, Aug. 10. Unfilled orders
of the I'nited States Steel corporation
Ju'.y 31 showed 46-0H) ton decease,
vocifarnd with tbo cf June 30.
Hughes Denies a Somewhat Current Be-
lief About United States.
St. Paul, Minn., Aug. 10. Charles K.
Hughes, speaking last night in the audi
torium here, assailed the administration
for its preparedness policy, which he de
clared inadequate, asserted that he re
garded "reasonable preparedness as a
primary dutv," and purposed, if elected.
"to see that it is discharged to the cred
it of the American people."
VVe are a spirited people, Mr. Hughes
declared. "We are a people that can
protect ourselves. We are not too proud
to fight.
Mr. Hughes referred to a recent ad
dress to the Senate by Senator Lewis of
Illinois.
"He didn't like some statements of
mine, the nominee said. "I hey dis
tressed him. I am glad of it. That was
the intention, but there wasn't a word in
what I said that he or anything else
could answer.
The punitive expedition into Mexico,
Mr. Hughes said, was only called puni
tive. "The only punishment inflicted was
punishment inflicted on ourselves," he
said. "We punished nobody else."
MEXICAN OFFICIAL DEAD
their live
been recovered.
Many persons have been seen clinging
to debris In the flood but no assistance
could be given them.
A Sunday school excursion train is
marooned and cannot be reached.
The cloudburst occurred at the head
waters of the Taint and Cabin creeks
and Coal river. and .the torrent swept the
Coal river bunks almost clean of villages,
while the Kanawha river rose several
feet, carrying on its creHt houses and
other buildings.
The Cabin creek valley has a popula
P. O., and at Orleans on the main line
of the Passiiinpsic division, Boston and
Maine railroad.
The -washout at Smith's Mills, a few
miles across the Canadian line, was the
worst of the two as regards damage to
the road. An engine attached to a
freight train going south, ran into the
washout earlv Wednesday morning, left
the track and settled into the softened
roadbed- The train was proceeding slow
ly at the point so none of the trainmen
were injured.
Wrecking trains were sent from Lvn-
tion of about 1,1,000, about one-third of f tlonyille and S her brook e and removed the
which is estimated as homeless.
ADRIFT THREE DAYS
IN SMALL BOATS
Eight Members of Crew of Fishing
Schooner, Abandoned Off Grand
Banks, Were Brought
to Boston.
Boston, Aug. 10. After being adrift
three days in small boats, Capt. Kyffin
and seven members of the crew of the
schooner R. Bowes, abandoned last week
in a gale off the Grand flanks, were
brought here to-day by a British steam
er. lhe men were picked up by the
steamer Homer City and transferred to
the inward-bound steamer.
MAY PUBLISH NOTE.
United
States Gets Permission
German Government.
from
Juan Amador Had Heart Disease and
Gangrene.
Washington, I). C, Aug. 10 The I'nit
ed States has asked for and received per
mission from Germany to publish as a
formal document the last note in the
Lusitania case, which was submitted bv
Count von Bernstorff nearly six months
ago. The state department's intention
to publish the communication is be
lieved to indicate its acceptance.
Acting Secretary Folk declined yes
terday to discuss the plans of the Unit
ed States in regard to tho Lusitania
cae, or to disclose when the document
would be given out.
The communication, dated Feb. 10,
last, does not mention the amount of
indemnity Germany is to pay, or how
or when the amount will be agreed upon.
It simply "recognizes liability," promises
to make reparation by the payment of
indemnity, gives assurances for the fu
ture and declares that reprisals, such as
ruthless submarine warfare must not be
directed at other than enemy subjects.
The German government is represented
as feeling that, having signified its wil
lingness to make reparation, the Unit
ed States must make the next move
toward securing it.
engine from the main lin
Section crews relaid the track tem
porarily across the washout so that traf
fic was resumed about 3 o'clock in the
afternoon. Passengers on some trains go
ing north and south between Sherbrooke
and Newport up to that time were car
ried by.
The road at Orleans was clear for traf
fic alamt 11 a. m. The passengers on the
local arriving in St. Johnsbury at 11:30
were carried bv the washout and were
only about 30 minutes late, but the "air
line south was two hours, 50 minutes
late, beinjr held at Newport for connec
tions with the train from Sherbrooke.
The express over the Portland divis
ion oi me .Maine central was lieid up
for the airline and was over two hours
late out of St. Johnsbury.
ROADS BADLY GULLIED
Northern Vermont Towns Visited by a
- Great Downpour.
Orleans, Aug. 10. Severe rain storms
Tuesday afternoon and during the night
were the cause of the breaking of the
dam at Hiram Allen's ice pond. The wa
ter poured forth in torrents, damaging
the slaughterhouse owned and operated
by Smith ft Jenkins of this place. In its
downward path it swept across the rail
road track, causing severe washouts
which held up trains for 12 hours, mak
ing it necessary to carry by.
One washout, near Alfred Brown's, be
tween Orleans and Coventry, was 100
feet long and five feet deep and the other
just above the veneer mill was not as
bad but much work on the steep bank
where it wns.badly washed will be nec
essary before it can be left.
On Main street the water backed up,
filling the cellars of Twomblcy and Col
ton and Smith ft Jenkins and spoiled
some merchandise stored in them.
The road from Willoughby lake was
Closing sessions of the 1,1th annual
convention of the Vermont State Fed
eration of Labor were held this fore
noon and early this afternoon. With
the Gompers mass meeting in the opera
house and the annual banquet and after
dinner exercises last night, the delegates
earned a deserved rest and only a short
time was taken up in the business ses
sion this morning. Several resolutions
were considered and at 11 o'clock ad
journment was taken until 12:30 p. m.,
when officers were elected for tho en
suing year.
The officers are: President. F. W. Suit
or of Karre; first vice-president, A. W.
Desroebers of St. Johnsbury; second vice
president, William Keid of Montpelier;
third vice-president. Michael Moore of
Bellows Kails; fourth vice-president, Ben
Altieri of Burlington; fifth vice-presi-lent,
William Smith of Hardwick; sixth i
vice-president. Job Long of Brattleboro;
secretary, Alexander Ironside of Barre;
secretary treasurer, Nelson A. Malmgren
of Rutland; state organizer, Arthur
Rousse, Graniteville.
The officers were installed by William
Standiumb of Boston, president of the
New hngland Labor conference, and aft
erward Mr. Standcumb, in behalf of the
delegates, presented Pres. Suitor a set
of gold cuff links, a brooch, a finely
wrought gold chain and a $10 gold piece.
Rutland will be the convention city in
1017.
Just before adjourning for lunch, the
convention took cognizance of President
(Jumpers' suggestion made lajit evening
with reference to the situation between
the merchant and clerks by appointing
a committee of five to meet the mer
chants. The committee was made up as
follows: William Standeomb of Boston,
president of the New England Label con
ference, A. W. Desroeher f St. Johns
burv, delegate, William Reid of Montpel
ier, delegate, Arthur Cayo of Burlington,
delegate, and Nelson A. Malmgren of
Rutland, secretary-treasurer of the
state federation.
During the forenoon the delegates
marched to the Spaulding school grounds,
where a photographer was waiting to
take a group picture of the convention.
The delegates lined up in front of the
Burns monument and were "snapped"
several times in order to insure more
than one satisfactory negative.
Resolutions Adopted.
Resolutions introduced through the
standing committee on resolutions were
ratified to-day in the order given below:
Whereas. The Cigarmakers' Interna
tional union of America, thorugh want of
necessity, created an emblem known as
the blue label, to be placed on each box
of cigars, thereby guaranteeing to the
consumer that the cigars contained
therein are manufactured under sanitary
conditions and by competent workmen;
and, whereas, it is known that cigars
made by child lalwr in other states, par
ticularly where trust, factories are in
operation, are being imported into Ver
mont in large quantities, thereby nulli
fying the child labor law being enacted
in our state and other New England
staets; and, whereas, the blue union la
bel of the Cigarmakers' International un
ion of America represents the eight-hour
day and fair paid adult labor, thereby
making a pronounced distinction between
Chinese coolie, trust, prison and child
labor; therefore, lie it resolved, that the
Vermont state branch of the American
Federation of Labor in convention assem
bled at Barre, reindorse the blue union
label of the Cigarmakers International
union of America.
Whereas, much care and effort has been
shown and expended by the entertain
ment committee of the Barre C. L. U.,
by the officials of the city of Barre, by
the citizenry of Barre in general, and
by Samuel Gompers, president of the
A. F. of I.., in inspiring addresses and
cordial and sympathetic conferences, be
it resolved, that the 1,1th annual conven
tion of the state branch of the A. F. of
I. extend its heartfelt thanks to the
Barre C. L. V., to the officials of the
city of Barre, to the citizens generally.
to the Hon. Samuel Gompers, Gov. Gates,
ex -Gov. Fletcher, Mr. StandcumlK and
law, and such property or property right
must be derribed with particularity ill
the upplicati which inut be in writing
and sworn to by the applicant or by hi
agent or uttorney.
See, 3. No rcntraintnjf order or In
junction hull prohibit any person or
persons, whether singly or in concert,
from terminating any relation of em
ployment or from ceasing to perform
any work or labor: or trmu recommend
ing, advising or persuading others so to
do; or from attending at any place where
iiny person or persons nuiy lawfully be,
for the purpose of obtaining or commu
nicating information, or from persuading
any mich person to work or to abstain
from working; or from ceasing to pat
ronize any party to su-h dxpute; or
from recommending, advising, or per
suading others so to do; or from paying
or ginng to, or withholding from, any
person engaged in such dispute, any
strike benefits or other moneys or things
of value; or from assembling in a law
ful manner, anil for lawful purposes; or
from doing any ad or thing which might
lawfully be done in (he absence of such
Impute bv a single individual; nor shall
any of the acts specified in this section
be considered or held to be illegal or un
lawful in anv court of this state.
Sir. 4. That the l.ilmr of a human
being is not a commodity or article of
commerce, and the right to enter into
the relation of employer and employe,
or to change that relation; or to assume
and create a new relation for employer
and employe; or to perform and carry
on business with any person in any
place; or to do work and labor as an em
ploye, shall be. held and construed to 1m
a personal, and not a property right. In
all cant involving the violation of the
contract of employment, eithpr by the
employe or employer where no irrepar
able damage is. about to be committed
upon the property or property right of
either, no injunction shall be granted,
but the parties shall be left to their
remedy at law.
Sec. ;1. No persons shall be Indicted,
prosecuted, or tried in any court of this
state for entering into or carrying on
any arrangement, agreement, or combi
nation U'tween themselves made with a
view of lessening the number of hours of
labor or increasing wages or bettering
the condition of workingmen, or for any
act done in pursuance thereof, unless
such act is in itself forbidden by law it
done by a single individual.
W. G. Peed.
Chairman,
Ben Altieri,
A. J. Young,
A. L. Miner,
A. W. Desroches,
Secretary.
VETERAN WAS "
DESPONDENT
James H. Vancor Committed
Suicide by Using a
Revolver
WAS FOUND SITTING
IN CHAIR IN "'ARN
Montpelier Mar ias Visit
ing His Bror" in Barre
Late erday
Governor Gates a Speaker.
Soon after the convention assembled
for the afternoon session yesterday, the
usual order of business was suspended
while a committee consistig of Angus
McDonald and Harry Dale escorted Gov
ernor C. W. Gates into the convetion
hall. Every delegate arose to his feet
and the executive hnd to acknowledge a
rousing salute before he could gain the
speaker's platform. Chairman Suitor in
troduced him in well-framed words and
the governor spoke interestingly, if
pointedly, at times on some of the issues
where labor is concerned. The delegates
listened attentively and when President
Gompers, who was ushered into the hall
at 2 o'clock, arose to consider some of
the points raised by the governor, the
audience continued to listen most atten
tively. Governor Gates stated that he had
very little knowledge of the workings of
organized labor until he entered the ex
ecutive chair and in that way met many
of the men who are achieving much for
the workingmen in Vermont. He got a
new viewpoint of labor, he said, and of
the earnest men who are back of the
movement. He assured the convention
that the state branch would receive the
strong backing of the state just as long!
as it continues to do the work mapped
out by its leaders. The governor, in re
ferring to some of the ideals for which
Vermont stands for, sanjc his plummet
into a little of the commonwealth's earlv
history, spoke of the high regard which
the pioneers held for truth, justice, lib
erty and freedom and urged that the
present generation, including those who
may be numlered as more recent comers
as well as the descendants of the set
tlers, keep these ideals in mind. There
'Continued on fourth page.)
ADDITION TO H0WLAND BLOCK.
One-Story Annex to Be Built at
Rear at Once.
the
SCHOOL GIRL DIED TO-DAY.
Helen White Had Been 111 Four Months
with Bright's Disease.
Miss Helen White, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Louis White of 23 Third street.
pas&ed away at 10:50 o'clock this fore-
impassable for automobiles and a bad
washout near the Catholic church on the ! Mr. Lovely, and particularly to the press
tor its impartial and generous report of
tho convention s proceedings; be it fur
road to Barton necessitated a detour.
TALK OF THE TOWN
A New York car that was going st
such speed that the number coild not
he obtained frightened the mules on a
Standard Oil team yesterday on the Wil
Iiamstown road near the "Toad Holl--'"
schoolhouse about a mile north of W'A
liamstown village. On eeing the auto
mobile coming, I!. J. Dunklin, the driver,
reined the te.im as near the bank as he
could, but the machin" ws going toward
the team with such speed 'bjt the mules
Mexico Citv, Aug. lO.Tuan Naftali I "e ena 101 owing an illness ot , from t,1P as it l,iz.d bv. and gave
Amador, sub-secretary of foreign rela-1 1 "r 10 i.ng.i i s hf ti) ,ank a twist that snapp.-d tin
ther resolved, that a copy of this resolu
tion be published in the local press and
a copy sent to the parties mentioned.
lierens. the statute laws of the state
demand the cessation of all unnecessary
industrial and commercial pursuits on
the Sabbath, and. whereas, violation of
the laws is evident as regards the trade
of bartering, be it resolved, that the
secretary of the state branch bring to
the notice of the attorney-general said
violation.
Be it enacted, etc.:
Section 1. It shall not be unlawful for
Ground has been broken in Keith ave
nue tor an addition to the llowiand
block, the excavation having been start
ed this week under a foreman employed
by James E. Cashman of Burlington, who
has been awarded the contract to com
plete the annex. The addition will have
lateral dimensions of 75 and CO feci and
will extend from the main building,
erected seven years ago.. Brick of the
same type used in the original building
and trimmings of hammered I5arro gran
ite to conform with the main structure
will be used. It is to be one. story high
and the floor space of the F. W. Wool
worth Co.'s store will be increased by
an area of 'JO by 37 feet, the new space
to be a continuation of the company's
present quarters. A store with floor
dimensions of '20 and 37 feet will front
Keith avenue, a middle entrance being
flanked by jdate glass windows. On the
Keith avenue lot n drive ten feet wide
is to be reserved. It is expected that
the addition will be ready for occupancy
Oct. 1.1.
James Henry Vancor, aged "0, a vet
eran of the Civil war, committed sui
cide by shooting while visiting his broth
er, C. W. Vancor' at the city farm lal
yesterday afternoon. His act is ascribed
to despondency due to declining health
and circumstances surrounding his deuiii
plainly indicated that he set about to
end his life with deliberation. Mrs. C.
W. Vancor, matron at the city farm, ami
her husband heard the fatal shot around
5:30 o'clock. They went to the barn to
investigate and found the body of tim
veteran sitting upright in a chair. A
bullet had entered his left temple; pass
ing through the head. On the floor by
his side was a Colt revolver of inexpen
sive design with one cartridge exploded.
The other cha mbers were loaded. Tiie
man's head was tilted slightly forward,
but otherwise he looked as though ht
had fallen asleep.
Dr. J. W. Stewart, the city physician,
was called to the farm and' he notified
police headquarters. Deputy Chief Gam
ble procured an auto and went to thu
almshouse to continue the doctor's in
vestigation. He convinced himself that
it was a case of suicide and permission
was given the man's brother to remove
the body. In the early evening the body
was brought to B. W. Hooker & Co.'s
undertaking establishment.
Latterly the deceased had been making
his home in a boarding house conducted
by Mrs. Smith in Montpelier, althoug'i
at. times he had resided in Barre. A
short time ago he went to Burlington to
attend a reunion of his comrades in the
Ninth Vermont regiment. His health
had declined rapidly of late and he had
displayed unmistakable signs of despond
ency, lesterdav he arrived at the citv
farm from Montpelier around 2 o'clock.
A grip which he carried was afterward
found to contain a change of linen an t
other wearing apparel. He visited wit.i
his brother, Mrs. Vancor and some or
the inmates and did not appear to be,
disturbed mentally. Shortly after 6
o'clock he left the house and went to the
the barn. A few minutes later people in
the house lieard the report of a pistol.
For rive years his health had not been
of the best and three weeks ago he sus
tained a shock which seemed to cause
him much depression. On account of
failing health 'he had not been able to
engage in active occupation for several
years.
Mr. Vancor was born in Underhill ,Tulr
3, 1S4(1, and spent his early life in that
town until he enlisted, at the age of 17.
in the Ninth Vermont volunteers an-l
served in the Civil war from 1S63 to
the end of the conflict. He went through
all the grades of non-commissioned offi
cers and was elated for a commission
when the war ended and before the com
mission was signed. , lie was then acting
as second lieutenant.
On his return to Vermont he lived in
Jericho for a time and 30 years ago went
to Burlington, where for many years he
was superintendent of the Champlain
Manufacturing Co. in the chair depart
ment. For several years he was engaged
in business in Morrisville but was obliged
to give that up on account of failing
health. For the past few years he had
made his home in Montpelier and in
Ba rre.
In 1870 he married Sarah Lombard of
Piatt sburg. N. Y., and she survives him,
being now with her daughter, Mrs. E.
L. Brown, in Boston. Besides the daugh
ter, there are two sons surviving, they
being Edwin Vancor of Morrisville and
C. Arthur Vancor of Philadelphia. There
are also two brothers and three sisters,
as follows: C. W. Vancor of Barre, E. E.
Vancor of Burlington, Mrs. Jennie Cun
ningham of Worcester, Mass., Mrs. Ed
ward W. Mead of Richwood, O., and Mr.
C. K. Carpenter of Montpelier, who is at
present with her sister in Kichwood.
Mr. vancor was a member of Stannard
post, G. A. R., in Burlington and also
was a member of the Masonic order.
The funeral arrangements have not
lieen completed, but the burial will be
in Burlington.
HEARINGS ARRANGED.
Mr. and Mrs. Harvey Milham and lit
tle child of Kast street li lt i.us morning
for Marshtield, and will be at Niggerhead
pond for a few days before going to Con
cord. X. II., where Mr. Sullum has se
cured employment as electr-cian. Mr.
Siiinam has been employed by t.. - iiarre
Electric Co, and the Hell Telephone Co.
Iiecame frurhtened and lumped awav
working men and women to organize ,ot late
themselves into, or carry on labor nn- Miss Ruth Ijimh. adopted daughter of
tions, died to-dav. Recently he was mB5r- " c" 1 1 ,n 1'arre king holt, thu thr iving the r Mr nd ot i 'ons tor tne purpose ot lessening the Or. and Mr, m. h. i-amo, s uimnm
stricken with heart disease, and gangrene -uarcft 14- l m' na last Jar attended ti,e ,ni(k to tie 0f hank.- au- .hours of labor or increasing the wages or J in Concord. . It., -inly - to Alex Mm
scssimiis ni, mc .suiiu i.airc w.-ihmu. ,-sm. , m jfl turn turtle as its wcignt oetiering ine condition or the members jot tiiiit cny, me ci-mium u'e
is survived by her parents, by two sis- I crumpled the bank's edre. Mr. Dunkling of such organizations; or carrying outlin the Episcopal church. Bishop Parker
ters, Misses Maud and Marguerite White,! i,,,,,! trn, i .it lust in tim to i their legitimate purposes as freely as ! ffii iatin-. Mr. and Mrs. Sims left at
and two brothers, Edwin and Ezra W hite. I ,a,r himself from lieing trapped beneath thev could do if acting singly. " jonce on a trip to Ixtwell, Mass.. and
VlCinilV mill Uls'll on ii niiiiu will
By the Industrial Accident Board Dur
ing Week of Aug. 21.
The industrial accident board has ar
ranged for hearings in the following
cases: Annie Harnett vs. f. 15aldas-
aro. and the Travelers Insurance com
pany, at Hardwick, Aug. 21 at 10 o'clock;
Joseph Lambert vs. E. R. Murch and th
Employers' Liability Assurance corpor
ation, at Hardwick, Aug. 21 at 1!)
o'clock; C. Campo vs. Koyal Indemnity
Co., at Barre, Aug. 22 at 10 o'clock;
Harold C. Morse vs. The Demeritt Co.,
and the Fidelity and Casualty Co., at
Waterbury. Aug. 22 at 2 o'clock; Ed.
Vara nee vs Vernon I-ast Rhck Co.. and
the Maryland Casualty Co., at Brattle
boro, Aug. 21. at D o'clock.
developed when his loft leg ws ampu
tated.
DECLINE TO ADJOURN SEPT. 1
Republicans in Senate Will Not Accept
Democratic Program.
A third sister, Lillian White, who was the tank as it rolled .low u the bank, an d J5. 2. No restraining order or in
side in
(V.ncord. A number of their
DAM WASHED OUT
Highest Water in Score cf Years at East
Enosburg.
East Eno'burg. Aug. 10. The mill dam
of the A. C. Call Lumber company was
washed out at 7 o'clock Iat evening, do
ing miuh damage. Aftw an all-day rain
1515. i l.in' it m-. ,!,sf-oered that Ihorj n 'thereof in any case involving or trrowintr their departure and gave them a merrv (the water higher than at any time ii
Washington. D. C, Aug. 10. Republi- j It is expected that the funeral will nn Unmir t, the oil 'ni-k with the i v- out of a dispute concerning terms or i send-off. Mrs. Sims, w ho is a graduate ; the past 1! -r 2i ycr. No miterial
cans of the Senate, in conference, de-; be held In St. Monica's church Saturday ! erf tion of a broken otimiv over tie Jriv- (conditions of employment. unle nece-'of Oodlsrd seminary, had !ied many j damage w ,lme t- building, but
clined to accept the legislative program i morning at 9 o'clock. The parish priest. rr' w at. and the truck in n-e tgsin ' ry to prevent irreparable injury to ' ver in Barre. but for nearly a year hsd j larce quant iy ot were ashed down,
of the. Democratic storing committee Rev. P. M. McKenna. will officiate and i thi forr'nnnn Neither Xr. Oiuklino nor 1 proper! V or to a property rirrit of the Wn a resident of Comnrd. Mr. in:i"som 2" n;n s si-nilar wVit
ith a view t adjourning Corgre interment U to 1 made in the Catholic it h t, v,r.,l -nv '.i..ii.s f:nin the'r-srtr makimr the applii-ation. for w',i.lili unploved in the znxerv bu.n-ss in l-scurri-d. i,n ti.e tia;r,ge aa connd-
ScpU I. ta.ttery on Beckley street. acwdent. inj'irv there is no adequate remedy at that :ty. " arabi.
strick-n w ith a fatal illness while in a .lsn die, Le i the team fro:n running ; junction shall be granted bv anv court
convent at St Johns, P. y., died in March, I war fter telephoning to Barre fvr of this state, or anv judge or iudre I friend escorted them to the station on
help, it was discovered th,-,t ther ra, thereof in any case involving or growing i their departure and gave them a merry!
I.
