. TIEPICKENS SENTINE
PUBLiHiED WiEK jY OFICIAL PAPER OF PICKENS COUNTY SUBSCIPTI
Volume 46 PIKENS, S. C., AUGNumber 14
Hon. Cole L. Blease
Will deliver a political adddress at
Pickens
Monday, August 21,
All Candidates for Congress are in
vited to be present. Speaking will
begin at 11 o'clock.
Music by the Easley Brass Band.
From Matthew Hendricks talk about macadamizing roads, but I
remember one hill ot about 150 yards of
Recently I have been studying the the worst roads we had was fixed by
road question and from past experience the presentsupervisorin aboutsix hours
I know it is a hard problm. I seived with a rock crusher, six hands and two
two years as county commissiorer when teams. That has been about three years
only four days' work had to be done by ago and it is good now with all these
each hand of road age Then we were rains. I believe it would be economy to
relocating all our roads to get thaem on put a set of hand~s out with a crusher
a better gra-le. In some places the labor and have them run it all the year at
was so scarce we had to cut the timber Jdifferent places over the county where
out; in others, the most leading roads, Ithere is hard rock. When the scrapes
we could sdig up the timber. But that are not running keep the teams hauling
was the beginning of better roads with- rock to the crusher until the wvorst
out means. Then I came in as super- places are made good, and from year to
. visor with three commissioners in each 1year we will improve until there will be
township. During that time the work Inothing like we have now. And to
was hreedaysor $.50.Withsuc better conditions and to meet some of
means no one could expect nny improve- iths te es ou cosir. oin aa
mnentson roads more than the relocation vtthconyomisne.Lta
to have better grades. At that time supervisor run the business. As it is
our assessment was two million, and~ we h1ave a scrape for two townships and
dollars were had to ras.Tecut two hands to run it, a boss to boss it
was in debt for claims past due to the andi a commissioner to boss him, and a
amount of about $10,000, with $35,000' cook for all-about $1,000 for all three
outstanding railroad bonds due in three nmen, and what the cook dloes is the big
years. A claim on the county was wvorth gest jobi of work of all. TIhen, too often
about 60 cents on the dollar. First of is the case when a road is worked, the badI
all, the business'I had and did arrange iplaces are left and sonme one is Paid to
wvas to pay off all claims against the (do what the scrap~e hands walked over
county and arranged to pay cash for all unnoticed. These things ought not to
work (lone, which was (lone for about he. It will be cheaper to have hands
hal th prce aidbefre.Thi wa aenough with the scrape to do all such
alfn tin pl rideor. Durin theseII work, repair and build all small bridges
years I had built seven of our largest and wthen oan chare oft the
river bridges on rock piers. One of wVaterY hnIto hreo h
them was washed off the piers and one buiesthe county owed the amount
of them had to be moved on account of1 mentionedl and $10,000 for the court
water washing through the bottom. All house. 1 paidl all this off' but the rail.
othes ae god et.Sine tat imeroadl debt, and had a levS' annually as a
nearly all our business has been run on ear" after it fellrde. tht aebteinmone
a cash basis and nearly all our large of the cut smr hntiewa
bridges are covered, With these im- it was thent ind ore tan twevrat
provements our bridge accounts are higher. Wec ought to improve faster.
~, , lowered, but our' road expenses are NlATTHu~Aw II KNDRiICKS.
heavy andl the great question is how to~ We are requested to announce that
change it. We are doing no'pei-manent W. E. F'indley will lead the prayer
wvork-only such as I have mentioned-- meeting service at the Methodist church
and I can hear on all sides complaint Thursday evening at 8.30O. TVhe pastor',
about what work is done and how it is Rev. L,. E. Wiggins, is away in a pro-.
done, or rather not done. We are spend- tracted meeting at Nine ty-Six.
ing lots of money. I believe it would-___
be best for us to change our system and *B. P'. Kelly and son, \Villie, of Cen
spen som moe. Al poplenowthat tral were business visitors at the coun
a contyi so wak fino neednn not ty seat last ..~.s.
Local and
Mrs. Tom Starke of Elberton is visit
ing Mrs. C. B. Hagood.
Mrs. J. W. Sheriff of Orangeburg is
visiting her sister, Mrs. M. C. Smith,
in Pickens.
The Daughters of Confederacy will
meet at Mrs. Melvin Holder's Friday
afternoon at 5 o'clock.
The Pickens Hiardware & Grocery Co.
have an inferesting advertisement in
this issue of The Sentinel.
Mr. and Mrs. Guy McFall and Mr.
and Mrs. J. T. Partridge spent Sunday
with the family of W. G. Hall in An
derson.
Mr. and Mrs. Tom Hill, and children,
Miss Louiseoni, Jr., and James, of
Greer. spent Sunday with Mr. and Mrs.
J. L. Thornley.
.Jesse Morris nd Arthur Reese spent
several days last week at Lake Toxa
way, They made the trip across Gauley
on foot, but came back by rail.
Homer Edens left Thursday for Nor
folk, Va., where he joined his brother,
.James, and they will together visit the
larger cities of the North.
Mrs. F. L. Clement and two sons and
daughter. Sarah Bess, and Miss Harriet
Noyce of Atlanta are the guests of
Mr. and Mrs. G. R. Hendricks.
MessrA. Smith Griffin and Ernest
Freeman and family of Greenville pass
ed through Pickens Monday en route
to Browns hotel. They were joined here
by Mrs. W. B. Freeman.
Homer Sutherland, manager of the
United Cigar company's store in Char
lotte, has returned to his duties there
after spending his vacation with home
folks in Pickens county.
R. L. Hames returned to Pickens
Monday afternoon after spending his
vacation in Habersham county, Georgia.
There are various rumors afloat as to
why Bob went to Habersham.
Miss Bessie Robertson, who has been
spending several weeks in Charlotte, N.
C., lys returned to Pickens. She was
accompanied by her sister, Miss Cor
rinne, who will spend sometime here.
The annual meeting of the Woman's
Missionary Union of the Pickens Asso
ciation will meet with the Pickens Bap
tist church August 29-30, beginning at
10 o'clock. Everybody is invited to be
present.
The members of the class of 1915 of
the Pickens high school enjoyed a pic
nic last Wednesday evening at the pow
er plant. The class consisted of Misses
Frances Bruce, Clovie Gilstrap, Sadie
Nealey, Gertrude Aiken, Mildred Cox,
Johnnie Attaway, Sara Attaway, and
Messrs. Colie Seaborn, Homer- Edens,
Ralph Gilstrap, Oliver Bloggs and Har
ry Robinson.
I Newsy Letter Fi
Mr. and Mrs. Remus Henderson off
Anderson motored to Mrs. Henderson's
parents, Mr. andl Mrs. M~cD. Farmer's
Sunday.
Mr. Velmon F'endley visited relatives
in Dacusville Sunday.
Mr. McD. Farmer purchased a Ford
car last wveek. Watch Cedar Rock
come to the front!
Prof. and Mrs. Myers motored to
West Union last week to visit Mr. and
Mrs. Hunnicutt.
After spending several weeks very
pleasantly at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
T. 9. 'Turner, Miss Thuryston Myers
has retnrned to her home at St. Steph
ens.
Miss Vivian H-endrix is spending a
few days with her aunt, Mrs. Lawrence
Lathem of Greenville.
Mrs. Z. T1. Jones andl Miss Lucia
Jones were the guests of Mrs. H. R.
Jones last week.
Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Stewart were the
week-end guests of Mrs. B. F. Robin
son in Greenville.
Mrs. T. S. Turner and Mrs. Evan
Myers visited at G. H. Hendlrix's last
week.
Messrs. Loyd ,Jones and Ned Williams
arc at Clemson attending the summer
agricultural course.
Mr. L~. I". Smith and children attend.
edI the singing at Peters Creek Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. .Jones and family
were the guests of Mr. Thos.. Ilughes
of Greenville Sunday.
Personal
We are requested to announce that
all persons interested in cleaning off
the graveyard at Cross Roads are re
quested to meet Tuesday morning, Au
gust 16, 1916.
Mr. Robert Alexander, aged 24, died
from tuberculosis at the home of his
father-in-law, T. J. Mullinax, at the
Easley mill village on the 30th ult. He
is survived by his mother, Mrs. Anthony
Simmons, of Easley. His wife preceded
him to the grave. The funeral services
were conducte( from the residence by
Revs. J. 1). Iloller and 1). 0. Powers
and the body was laid to rest in the nill
cemetery on the 31st ultimo. -- Easley
Progress.
The young people of this section en
joyed a delightful lawn party at the
hospitable home of Mr. and Mrs. R. A.
lester, near Pickens, last Friday eve
ning, which was given by their charm
ing daughters, Misses Perla, L ois and
Susie. in honor of their house guests,
Miss Smith of Greenville and Miss
Birchfield of Atlanta. Quite a number
of young people enjoyed this delightful
occasion. Delicious punch was served
during the evening.
John Joe McFall (,f Pickens and John
W. Weeks of Aiken have been award
ed the Peabody scholarships of the Un
iversity of South Carolina for the ses
sion of 1916-17. These are valuable
scholarships and are given every year
to two young men graduates of some
recognized, college who have shown
qualitier of sdholarship. It is quite an
honor to receive one and Mr. McFall's
many friends here are pleased to know
that one has been so worthily bestowed
upon him.
Prof. J. C. Rogers, dean of Piedmont
College, Demorest, Ga., is in Pickens
county this week in company with other
representatives in the interest of the
college. Prof. Rogers says that he has
been traveling through many states in
the south and middle west during the
past six years and that he has found the
country schools of this state above the
average. He spoke very highly of the
appearance of the rural schools of Pick
ens county. He is enthusiastic over
the future of Piedmont College. Read
their adAertisement ir this issue of The
Sentinel.
The election for cotton weigher at
Pickens will be held Saturday, August
19, and the polls will be open from 10
o'clock a. m. to 5 p. m. Each voter
who wants to vote in this election must
get a certificate from the clerk of the
city council. Certificates may be secur
ed from the clerk at his office at the
Pickens Oil Mill between ten and six
o'clock any day from August 9 up to
and including August 16. No one can
secure a certificate after August16 and
no one can vote who hasn't got a cer
tificate. The candidates announced for
this office are Frank G. Allgood, N. D).
Parsons and Fred N. .Jones.
'om Cedar Rock I
Mr. and Mrs. Sam Robinson and Mrs.
Elvira Robinson spent Sunday with Mr.
and Mrs. B. H. Williams.
Mr. and Mrs. B. H. Williams and son
and daughter and Miss Lillian Hlendrix
attended church at Mt. Car-mel Sunday.
Messrs. Charles and Paul Hester and
Misses Susie andl Lois Hlester were the
attractive guests of Miss Williams re
eently.
Messrs. Oscar and Walter Turner and
Elmer- Hendrix were the guests of Mr.
a~nd Mrs. Bob Hendrix Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. G. H1. Hendrix visited
in Greenville Sunday afternoon.
Mr. Walter Turner spent Sunday af
ternoon ini Easley.
Luther Pickens, candidate for the
House, and Fred O'D~ell v'isitedl in this
vicinity last week.
,Misses Ethel and Nor-a McQueen of
Easley were the week-end guests of
Miss Lillie Spearman.
Mr'. and Mrs. Snow Masters and chil
:iren attended the Gilstrap reunion held
at the Hardy Gilstrap) place last Satur
:lay.
Miss Daisy Phillips is visiting in the
Mt. Carmel section this week.
Prio Is. G;eorge Burrage and D ean
R~oger-s and Mr. Scott, a student of the
Piedmont College, D~emorest, Ga., call
ed on their old student, Ada HI. Miller,
wvhile canvassing Pickens county for
stundonis Momenay.,..
Clarence L. Craig
Candidate For
County Superintendent of Education
This Is What He Stands For:
1First: I believe in a Summer Teachers' Institute with a
faculty and course of study approved by the State Superintendent
of Education, from which State certificates may he issued.
Second: In the employment of our own teachers to the ex
clusion of others where this is possible.
Third: The just apportionment of all school funds among
the different districts.
Fourth: In a just, impartial treatment of all teachers and
schools.
Fifth: In publicity of apportionment, that all districts may
ee what is being done for others.
Will Appreciate Vossr Support
Oolenoy An Interesting Service
Dr. and Mrs. L. F. Crenshaw, " f Rev. L. E. Wiggins delivered the first
Greenville, are spending some (lays with of his illustrated lecturesat the Metho.
relatives here. list church Sunday night to a large and
Mr. and Mrs. J. Ernest Reid, of Dub- I attentive cougregation The subjectof
lin, Texas, who are here for some time, the lecture was "The Women oi the
spent a part of last week with the lat- Orient." Stereopticon views were used
ter's sister, Mrs. S. B. Edens. to illustrate the lecture. This 8ubj~ct
Miss Elizabeth Mauldin spent. the is following the line of study of the
week-end with Miss lone Hlendrix. msinsuycastkntri h ok
D~r. L,. P. Crenshaw, Messrs. M."h igsHgwa. h etr
Hendrix, A. L. Edens and A. C. Suth-'unanihpctrdhelvsote
erland wvere business visitors in Pickens wmnfle'i gpIda ~ra
Monday. Cyo.Cia oe n Jpn h
Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Edens, .i'ler.,wsno nyiteetn n
spent Sunday with the latter's parentsenevsimrsieadb
near Liberty..bruhhoe Jhpiteshwte
The graded summer school began itswokoChitnmiinresadd
summer term of work last Mondaycainadtegegodhyara
morning. In the absence of the p~rinC-ci- lsigadtegra okta.i
pal. Prof. Morse of Chicora, Miss JIen- e ol~ oe
nie Griflin has charge of the higher Whltiss llaitrefo te
grades. Misses Cora Porter of Pickens rglrSna vnn evcs ti
and Frances Mauldin of Easley are the hje h1i illrv oua n
assistants A successful year's work mc o~ ilb copihd
is hoped for. Tepcue udyngtwr n
Mr'. and Mirs. .J. 12. Iooper, Mr'. and uulycei n itntadt. a
Mi's. lHenttie Williams, of' Dacusville, ciei odOe
wvere herie Sunday. Tenxo'tesiiso ~cue
Protracted meeting is ini progress wl i ie on
here this week. The services are con
dutdby the pastor', Rtev. W. C, Sea- Cut apinMeig
Pumpkintown "Deadhead" Stuff lbeyatraAust1,2pi.
Mir. and Mrs. Laawrence Elrod of u kntwuedyAgst1.
Greenville are visiting the latter's pa- Pces hrsaAgs 7
rents, Mr. and Mrs. .J. S. White, ait EalyStudAgst1,2pm
their home here.Caddtsfrslctrithsi
The little Misses liernice, liessie Leetrc ilasosektthsmeie
andi Wilma Hendricks received a lbleaa-anplcsexett se~'whr
ant surprise Sunday af'ternoon, when athyavaledspkn
motor car bearing their aunt, Miss Lila
Harris, andl cousins, Mr. and Mrs. H. A. IvtsteCnia
.Jennings, stoppled at their gate for a
brief visit. All too soon, however, the W r elet( osaeta h
car was buzzing again as it bore the cnl~ae o ''es(oit fie
piarties away to their home in Green- aebe nie onllcstevtr
A maid dog is i'eported to have been
killed by Vestal Blarker in the Pleasant eii~ ''ji'jd11~ucta h
Grove section Saturdlay night. Severalconyaiddtsr nitltoli's
(logs were bitten, we are told.th 'oi'ofilC'tkoith lth
Tlhe pumpkins of Pumpkintown wvill
be ''not much punkin" this year. Ms ateJhsno nc''ni
CD'.vitng Mis RuthWiggins.vrd his
