(
CLAYTON C
VOLUME 12
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1916
NO. 81
TP M ID
TEEN
I 1 II C 1 II
L 11 ii
Clayton Men on Committees , .
The Good Roads Contention at Ra
ton was a big success and a number
of Important business items brought
out and discussed. An assessment of
$50 is to be raised by each county for
the purpose of carrying on the Asso
ciation work.
Another $1500 is to be raised for
publishing an "official log" of the
route, and "flagging" the highway.
Messrs. Granville and Woodward were
appointed on the two committees to
further the work. Union county was
represented by Carl Eklund, Tom
Gray. Sam Gray, Miguel Tixier, Geo.
Granville, Hugh Woodward, Juan Du
ran, Glover Smith, W. A. Henderson,
Dr. Charlton. Slats Rankin, Simon
Herzstein, Tom Edmondson, John
Spring, C. P. Talbot, all of Clayton,
Frank DuBois of Hayden, Ray Sutton
and Bob Powell of Des Moines, Elmer
Fair, E. Corey, M. S. Callón and D.
Íl. Talbot of Dedman.
The convention will be held at Ver
non, Texas, next year. 1
Thanks
I wish to personally thank, through
the columns of the Citizen, all the
friends who so kindly assisted me in
winning the recent piano in the con
test held by the City Drug Store. I
am giving a dance Saturday, August
19, at my residence and take this
CALL FOR A REPUBLICAN PRI
MARY CONVENTION
PRECINCT NO. 1
You are hereby notified that re
publican precinct primary will be held
at the court house, in Clayton, New
Mexico, on the 12th of August for
the purpose of selecting 15 delegates
method of inviting all of my friends, to the county convention which meets
who gave me their assistance, to
come and help me to enjoy the eve
ning, and hear the piano their good-
at Clayton, August 17th., at which 10
delegates will be chosen to represent
Union county at the republican state
will helped me to win. Again, I wish convention which meets at Santa Fe,
to thank each and everyone for their . August 23rd, 1916
"boosts."
Mrs. L. D. George.
Iloodoing the Farmer
Just now the farmers all over the
country are being told what a bon-
CARL EKLUND,
Precinct Chairman.
IRRIGATING FROM WELLS TO BE
TRIED ON CIMARRON
An experiment of importance to this
anza "The Farm Loan" proposition section of the country is being tried
is for them as another "great achieve- on the Cimarron river by J. B. Rai
ment" of so-called democratic admin- lff 0f Kenton, for the purpose of ir-
istration. Of all the cheap-john bunc rigating a considerable area of land,
that has been handed the farmer for Mr. Ratlin is sinking five wells, one
years this is the cheapest. Again an 0f which is to be the main well from
attempt is being made to hoodoo the which the water will be pumped onto
farmer into the belief that the so- the land, while the other four will be
Ja mes Collins I called democratic administration loves I cIiwspH na feedinc wells.
him with the undying love of a Jon- The Isaacs Hardware Company
James Collins, who lived near the atnan for a David and again he is be- built the big casings which are three
Ford Catches Coyote
A fishing party, composed of Dick
Burrage, Jack Burrus, O. P. Easter
wood, R. W. Isaacs,. Dr. Winchester,
Fred Vandevort, George Ruble, Kit
Clark, Harry Thompson and Master
Oliver Easterwood Jr., went to Buf
falo Springs last Saturday evening
returning Sunday evening. They did 1
not have much luck fishing, but they
did run a coyote down in the Isaacs
Ford and brought its scalp home to
prove they killed it.
Fair Boosters Here
Editor H. B. Henning of the Albu
querque Herald, and W. P. Southard,
also from the "Duke City" spent sev
eral days in the city the latter part
of last week, soliciting assistance for
the State Fair and planning a big ex
hibit from Union county this fall.
J. D.'s Eye Listens Bad
J. D. Eubanks, manager of the Otto-Johnson
dry goods department is
wearing colored glasses these days.
We accused him of either too close in
spection of some real beauty, or ex
cess grief. He declares it is neither
and says the doctor told him it was
con something and if it hurts as
badly as it sounded we offer J. V. our
sympathy and feel that he is in dan
ger.
post office at Seneca, dropped dead in
the Drew rooming house at Trinidad
last Saturday. His body was taken
to the Hall-McMahon Undertaking
parlors for embalming. He was in
terred in the cemetery at Seneca, fol
lowed to his last resting place by a
large concourse of friends and rela
tives.
ing given the kiss of a Judas with the and four feet In diameter. The corn-
assurance of an Ananias who is sure- munity will watch with interest, the
ly "holding back a part" for the para- out come of this experiment which
site who must have his no matter at
whose expense. The tentacles of the
so-called democratic administration
from president to constable are feel
ing for you, Mr. Farmer, and Judas
has already counted his thirty pieces
may revolutionize irrigation in this
section. The work is being carried on
under the direction of Civil engineer,
E. C. Bell, of Lamar, Colo.
His death was from heart failure, of silver and is smacking his honey-
but he went to Trinidad for treatment ed lips with the Elysinn prospect of
for asthma and tuberculosis. He was your easy betrayal. The Farm Loan
NOTICE
well-known and highly respected in
his community having lived there a
number of years. He leaves a wife,
sister of John and Dave Brown of
Seneca, and one child to mourn his
loss, to whom the Citizen extends sin-
cerest sympathy.
Ship is a keel, barnacled with danger
to you, Mr. Farmer Taxpayer, far
moro reaching than the "Regional I
Eank" Colossus. It is well to give the
rattlesnake a wide berth. Next week
the Citizen will tell you why.
After August 12th the under
signed will not be connected with
The Citizen in any capacity. Pa
trons of The Citizen and the pub
lic in general are sincerely thanked
for the material and moral support
we have received while serving as
editor.
(Signed) EDWIN WILSON.
Mrs. Miller
It is interesting to contemplate just
what kind of explanation the so-called
democratic administration of Union
Mrs. W. A. Miller, who died at the county is going to puke out upon the
San Rafael Hospital in Trinidad, yes- people as to what it has done with the
terday morning at 2 a. m., was more than twenty thousand dollars of
Snyder Sells Interest
brought here for interment in the
Clayton cemetery today. The funer
al services were conducted at the
house at 3 o'clock by Rev. J. Q,
Herrín, who spoke eloquently and
road money taxed out of the pockets
of the people. There are thousands
of taxpayers in Union county who are
not able to discover any material im
provements in their roads who art
Walton Snyder recently sold his in-
terest in the Opera Bar to his part'
ner, Mr. Hamm. Mr. Snyder is as yet
undecided in what line of business he
will engage.
I in portant Attention
feelingly, taking as his text, the ever wondering what has been done with
beautiful and comforting Fourteenth 11 this money and they are asking
Chapter from St. John. for an explanation and no wheedling,
The casket wns hennprl with flow maudling, filibustering buncombe is
the loving tributes of manv friends. oing to be accepted in lieu of facts.
for Mrs. Miller was greatly loved bv Tt is time for the Pstorial poets with
all who knew her. Her patience in ''ucolic inspirations to get on the car-
pain and solicitude for her familv liet and Prav tne,r muses for 8 double-
were wonderful, though only her distilled inspiration of magic power
Maker can ever know the sufferine- v-an1 off tne Rathering storm of
No. 3359 is the lucky number that
takes the Rocking Chair given away
by Simon Herzstein for the July
prize. Anyone holding this coupon
please call, or write, Winning Num
ber is 3359.
Home Economics Clu!)
she endured in her last hours. W. D.
Kilburn, A. C. Lovelace, Snyder, Pal
mer, Spring, Easterwood, Simerl and
Eklund acted as pall bearers, and a
large number of friends attended her
to her last resting place.
Susan Marie, (hughter of John and
Emily Code, was born in Missouri,
Dec. 23, 1872. She went to Texas
when a small child. In Januray 1889
indignation rising in the breasts of
taxpayers who have furnished the
gold with which to pave their ronds
and have to guzzle along through
sand dunes and chuck holes. Pirates
of Penzance, bring forth your muses
and let 'em muse.
Beware of the Bushes
V
The Home Economics Club held an
interesting session Saturday ai'tornoon
at the home of Mrs. Gill,
During the business session the
President appointed the following
committees. Advisory Mesdnmes Law
Skelton, Staley, Jennings and Ramey,
Magazine Committee: Mesdames Sel
vy, Kingdom, and Gaines. This com
mittee is to collect and distribute mag'
azines and papers where they are
wanted. Anyone who has discarded
she was married to W. A. Miller, at invading Mexico on his thorough bred magazines please notify this com
Content, iexas, and they came at
once to Union county where they have
made their home since. They lived in
rolsom during the early years of
their married life and their children
steed, Rosinante. ever since the "pun- mittee
itive expedition" was launched. The The canning of fruits and veget
noor old Don has been riding back- ables was discussed it the close of
wards ever since he thought he had which prune whip, lemonade and waf-
Hisnnvered the unfortunate victims of ers were served. S
Lloyd, Alton, fcleanor nnd Helen, one. Pancho Villa. Rosinante has The next meeting will be held at
were all born there. They moved to 1, n pnrrvincr tViP Onivotic Don the home of Mrs. Havdon. Autrust 19
Clayton some fourteen years ago and wheresoever the will of Rosinante
u.. i . .
among our very best and would and Pancho s still at lanre. 'ti, p; nwinv 1p hrl.l nt Car-
.-." u.sniy respected iamilies. Mrs. Nevertheless, all the windmills have Unn' Fpp.I Ynrd M,vulav afternoon
n T : 1 1 ........ i i -
miiitr was piominent in social circles hppn vnnnnishpd. demolished, dostrov- ,,-u., ami a n-rmit Int.
aim tnurcn work, bhe was a devoted ed, shot to pieces and annihilated and 0f goods were disposed of. The prin
in. .sudn, a loyal companion, a loving Don Quixote is still riding backwards, cipal purchases, however, were made
and sacrificing mother, and a true pwhile Rosinante is gradually ap- by J. M. Yount, who has been buying
it u ln community proaching the stopping, bowing tree, army horses in the county for Ross
i" ue naru to nil. lo her heart- that ia to. hriiah the mollv-coddle from Dml! fl?t Wrfh Tovna H hnnohl
u.uneii nusoano and children we ex- his saddle. He will pass under this 55 head, spending $5,200 for them
wim uie sympathy born of like exper- tree in the early days of November. We have heard stockmen say he was
ice na nope they will be comforted So saith the prophet. Thus will end the most expert buyer they had seen
mi wie mougnc that their loss is another of so-called democratic in- in years, as he seemed to know
very decidedly her gain, and that the competence and bucolic buccaneering, just what he wanted as soon as he saw
time between many of us and Etern- the horse. Mr. Carson is making
.amu v. miiuiina mtOC Ollitro IIIUll jjwjjui. nil it iiiuii.u
We wish to thank all of our friends by the courtesy lie extends to his pa-
The Clayton road to Nara Visa is
one of the roads entitled to Federal
aid under the provisions of theBank-head-Shackleford
good roads act by
State Engineer, James A. French, and
a map showing theni iias been made.
This map will be taken by Mr. French
to Washington when he goes to the
national capital to attend this meet
ing of highway officials, August 16,
called for the purpose of formulating
rules and regulations to govern the
expenditure of funds under the good
roads bill.
Federal Aid For Postal Roads
Many Entries
Glover C. Smith of Clayton, Floyd for. their kindly sympathy and assist- trons.
AKins, also of this -city and Richard ance rendered us in the loss of our
Smith of Sedan, all purchased new dear wife and mother. Mrs. Muir of Folsom is in the city
Fords this week from the Pioneer ' W. A. Miller and children for a few days, shopping and visit-
Karage. 1 Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Kuhns. 1 ing friends,
O. L. Johnson of the Corrumpa was
omg business witn tne mercnants
here the first of the week.
Will F. Kendricks, postmaster at
Cuates, was a business visitor Big
Monday.
Mrs. A. C. Lovelace returned the
latter part of last week from Trini
dad, where she spent several days vis
iting friends.
Mr. and Mrs. Aruthur Wooten of
Mexhoma, were here Tuesday. They
report a fine seven hours rain in their
section of country Monday evening.
Miss Jeanette Carpenter of Seneca
was here the latter part of last week
and bought a new Ford from the Pi
oneer garage.
H. G. Woodring of Hansford, Texas
former owner of the old George
Couch garage, was a business visitor
in Clayton last week.
Mr. and Mrs, H. J. Nelson came in
from the ranch this week to look after
business matters. They took out
new Ford as they went back.
Mrs. Hosea and Mrs. R. W. Isaacs
purchased the ten lots adjoining Mrs.
Hosea's rooming house this week. The
purchase was made from R. T. Map-sker.
Miss Godlove of Vance came in Sat
urday of last week for a visit with
her cousin, Miss Magruder. She pur
chase:! n new Ford from the Pioneer
garage.
Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Hauser of
Grandview were in the city Saturday
of last week attending to business
matters.
White Tannar, manager of the Ot
to-Johnson Merc. Co., at Hayden, was
transacting business with merchants
and shaking hands with his old
friends here this week.
Mr. and Mrs. R. Q. Palmer and Mas
ter Robert Jr., accompanied by Mrs.
W. J. Eaton and two children, went
to Trinidad Tuesday where they at
tended the big circus given by Sells-
Floto Wednesday.
J. M. Yount will be here Monday
of next week to buy sume more horses
Anyone having them to sell will please
bring them to Carson's Feed Yard on
this date.
Miss Leona Jones passed through
Clayton the first of the week en route
to her home in Kenton. She has been
visitinir friends and relatives in
Trinidad, Denver and other points
R. D. Bergin was in yesterday
from his ranch near the Rabbit Ears
attending to business matters. He
lost a big sixty-foot barn in one of
the recent rain storms on account of
a big whirlwind, but he says the de
luge they had more than paid for the
loss as grass and crops are looking
fine there now. He joined the Citizen
family while here.
Mr. and Mrs. Guy Woo ls were inj
from the ranch this week visiting. It
is not generally known that Guy is
married, as he "stole a march" on all
his friends on July 22nd and took un
to himself one of the finest young la
dies in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to be the
We are informed that there were
thirty-eight entries for landMonday
of this week, at the Land office under
the new 160 acre law that has just
passed. There have been from nine
teen to twenty-five every day since
its passage but Big Monday seems to
have been a "red letter" day.
License to Wed
The following marriage licenses
were issued in the Clerk's office late
ly: Ethert R. Lockwoodand Venetta
McQuery of Dedman, D. Lewis Brown
and Pearl Stockton of Emery Gap,
Cornelio Mestas and Margarita Mes
tas of Moses, J. R. Fitzgerald of Taos
and Ruth Bosger of Amistad, John .
W. Ross and Emma Wilkensen of Cen
terville, W. C. Olney and -Millie
Smith of Cuates, Edgar Lockhart of
Pennington, and' Fannie Butler of
Patterson, Celia Vigil and Bentura
Hurtado of Folsom, Luciano Trujillo
and Marie Melendre of Folsom.
Rains
We are informed that a heavy rain
visited the entire country from Trin
idad to Dalhart. Also the northern
portion of the county, which has
been very dry, was deluged with wa
ter. In certain sections of the coun
try the crops are in fine shape but in
other places it has büen so dry noth
ing can grow. This last rain Monday
was very general and has done untold
good, especially to the grass.
Chas. Lord, the photographer, made
a trip to Creed's Chapel last Sunday
and took a number of really "nifty''
views of the dedication services cut
there. He says he doesn't feel lik he
could eat anymore for a week afte rt'.l
the good things they passed hin at
that "family" dinner on the groui. 's.
Dr. R. M. Olbeter went to Trini
dad the first of the week, presumably
on business, but we would like to wa
ger he attended the circus too.
Christian Otto, left the first of the
week for Denver, Kansas City and
other points where he will attend to
business matters, and incidentally en
joy life, for a short time.
Dr. Edmondson left the first of the
week for Rochester, Minn, to consult
with Mayo Bros., there concerning the
case of D. T. Sowers, who accompan
ied him and who has been suffering
from cancer of the stomach for some
time. .
partner of his joys and sorrows. : Guy
is a fine fellow and has many friends
who congratulate him and join the
Citizen in wishing them success.
The protracted meeting being held
at Creed's Chapel this week is respon
sible for the large and enthusiastic
audiences gathered every evening
there. They have special singing
services by Bro. Lewis and his wife,'
who were at one time engaged ir sing
ing for Sam Jones during his bi
meetings throughout Texas. Rey.
Creed from Texas, is conducting tli.
services, assisted by Presiding EldiT
Kevan. This Chapel was dedicated
last Sunday nnd more than 200 peo
ple were withered to w'ties.s the event
ilinner was served or. the ground?,
.'lie hill "-. is well constructed nnd
ts riembui'1 are very proud of their
achievement.
i
V
