(tofts
f PUNTA GORDA In Tropical Southwest Florida, a Seaport on the Famous Charlotte Harbor a Town that is Known for its Natural Attractions and the Hospitality of a Cosmopolitan Citizenship
VOLUME XXIV NUMBER 32
PUNTA GORDA, FLORIDA, THURSDAY, AUG. 10, 1916
5c. A COPY; $1.60 A YEAR
-f
.1
WHERE RESPONSIBILITY IN
HEALTH
IS FIXED BY WE STATUTES
IN FLORIDA
State Board of Health Has Original
Jurisdiction Anywhere in the
State Over Only Three
Diseases
Who is responsible authority in
health matters in Florida? The
functional relations of the State
Board of Health and of other au
thorities are clearly defined in the
statute books, but like the Ten
Commandments, these . matters
get mixed without an eceasional
t ' refreshing of memory.
). The law that established the
State Board of Health and defined
its duties, gave it original juris
9 . diction anywhere in the -State
over three diseases cholera, yel
" low fever and smallpox. - Under
this law it has the right it is its
y duty to assume control in the e-
vent ot an epidemic or or sporad
ic cases of these ailments and in
their management its "authority is
superior to that of city or county
boards or of local physicians.
In the occurrence of any other
diseases, whether in . epidemic
v. "1
i : :j:..:j.,i
.its duty is entirely advisory and
edf 14 assurne supreme authority
tr only when the situation has gone
Sj,)eyond the control of local health
fl authorities.
iwv The. question has been revived
iW by the present menace of infantile
i Vr paralysis, against which the most
careful supervision on travel has
' been established by the State
? 1 IT 111 i :i
i'&jST and port of, entry from northern
I .infected districts. Many inquiries
I p from many parts of the State have
income to the State Health Officer,
. asking for instructions in the pos-
itiDie emergency ot the appearance
or the disease m a Florida city or
own. And under the existing 'aw
of the' state, the health officer is
limited only to giving advico for
certain communicable diseases.
The responsibility for action,
prompt and correct, rests - and
must rest, upon local health au
thorities and physicians.
The record of the State Board
for almost twfnty:eight years
since it was established in 1889
has proved its willingness, its de
sire, to act and advise for the good
nf all Floridiana and even to
stretch the rigid interpretation of
law where it may seem to be for
the general welfare, but jt has al
ways avoided any overstepping of
the bounds of its legal jurisdic
tion or an interference with the
authoiitios of city health beards.
Excepting in the three diseases pl
ready named, its functions are en
tirely advisory and educational.
Whether this limitation of its
duties is wise or conduces to 'its
widest usefulness, is a matter of
more or less speculation. Any en
largement of its functions, by giv
ing it original jurisdiction and au
thority in the occurrence of other
diseases, can be accomplished only
liy a change of the law of the
state, and such change may be
made by the wish or demand of
the people of Florida.
The present fight against the in
vasion of Florida by infantile par.
idysis is being made by the local
health authorities in the various
cities through which such inva
sion would come. As the plague
mires with increasing severity in
.Vv York, Florida presents a sol
id front against the menace, and
filthough summer travel from New
York by rail and water direct in
to Florida, probably- has nerer
been greater than during the pres
ent season, not a single case of the
in lection, so far as is known at
l he present writing, has passed
within the bounds of the state
i'rom the infected areas to the
north of us. .
If the season shall pass without
such invasion, it will be a tribute
to the faithful watchfulness, the
untiring efficiency and the skill of
the local boards of health, and of
the physicians and nurses on
whom the actual responsibility
rosts. State Board of Health.
MATTERS IS PLACED
Long Life in Florida
- One of the most interesting ar
ticles we have read in a long time
was given in last Sunday's Tampa
Tribune, and was written bf O.
M. Randall, M. D., under the cap
tion, ."Why -Floridians Are
Longer Lived. "This article should
have the very widest publicity.
Editors cannot perforin a higher
duty to tho state and humanity
than from time to time to empha
seize the more salient points in
this splendid article. Probably the
most effective way to present this
would be by giving excerpts' than
presenting it as a whole because
of its length. An intelligent per
son can see at a glance that this is
not an ordinary boost article, but
that it is ' written by a- man
thoroughly informed as to the
scientific reasons for longevity in
Florida.The following paragraphs
represent some of the things Dr.
Randall said in his discussion of
this interesting question:
"In studying so far as possible
the lives of 1,280 men who have
lived upwards of 100 years from
Methusaleh to the present, the
writer can but observe that with
but sixty-five exceptions they
have lived in the semi-tropics, and
incidently I would state that 88
per cent, of the 1,280 were practi
cally vegetarians.
"Some factors of longevity
which obtain in Florida are these
No sudden changes -of tempera
ture and humidity. The temper
ature more nearly approaches the
normal body temperature. Less
energy or combustion, spoken of
in scientific language as 'oxida
tion,' is required to maintain nor
mal bodily heat. There is in con
sequence less waste of products to
be eliminated or carried out of the
system leaving less burden on the
organs concerned in tho carrying
out, or away, these products of
tissue waste and change, the prin
cipal of which are the kidneys and
mucous membrane othe lngs,
The skin is more active and takes
on the work of elimination which
further lessens the work of the
more vital organs. It has been
said by good medical men that a
man or woman is as old ' as his
kidneys.
Theso sudden changes of tem
perature and humidity engender
catarrhal inflamation of the nose,
throat and lungs, which favors
all sorts of infections, such" as
pneumonia, diphtheria, tuberculo
sis, infantile paralysis, and many
other diseases which Florida is
comparatively immune from. ; In-
fantile paralysis, which .is -just
now disturbing the north temper
ate zone, will never be a factor in
the south temperate zone because
the point of entrance and infec
tion is the vase pharyngeal mu
cous membrane made susceptible
by catarrhal inflammation and al
ways on the increase durinsr pro
longed cold and wet seasons.
M ida in summer is a safe
and heathful climate, much more
so than Maine. Massachusetts.
Connecticut . Illinois or manv
northern states. It is warm for
a longer time; July, August and
September run about tha same.
The middle of the dav is hot. in
the sun, but not hot in the;, shade,
and there is nearly always a
breeze ; the nights are invariably
refreshing.
"One important reaso why
Florida is increasing in wealth
find population faster than any
other stt& in the Union is the
fact that the healthfulness of the
state as a whole is coming to be
understood by conservative men in
the north." Arcadia' News.
There is a storyy for thei his
torical accuracy of which we ean
not vouch, that an editor once ap
plied at the door of Hades for
admission. "Well, sir," replied
the devil, "we let one of your pro
fession in. here three years ago,
and he kept up a continual row
with his former delinquent sub
scribers; and, as we have more of
that class of persons here than
any other, we have passed a law
prohibiting th admission of editors."
Cheap Transportation Has
Built National Prosperity
On
Thij is a big American freight engine.
It is an achievement of AMERICAN INVENTIVE GENIUS.
It is built to HAUL LONG TRAINS loaded with the products of Amer
ican indnstry from the mines, farms, nills and factories to the markets
of the eountry, and to the seaboard for ihipment across the seas.
In all the wonderfvl history of American industrial progress NO
PIECE OF MACHINERY HAS PERFORMED SUCH SERVICE AS THE
BIG FREIGHT LOCOMOTIVE.
Freight is carried on our railroads at the LOWEST RATES IN THE
WORLD, while we pay our railroad workers the HIGHEST WAGES
IN THE WORLD. A TON OF FREIGHT IN THE EAST IS CARRIED
THREE MILES FOR THE COST OF A TWO-CENT POSTAGE STAMP.
Cheap transportation is one of the biggest builders of our prosperity.
The big freight engine with its enormous tractive power, the big s.teel
freight car with its great carrying capacity, and the heavy rails and
rock-ballasted roadbed to support the weight of the great engines and
heavy trains these are the achievements of Amerioan industrial genius
which have given us low freight rates and broad markets, and have
enabled us to put our products in the markets of the world in competition
with foreign manufacturers.
But now come well-meaning but short-sighted leaders of American
railroad workers who say to the railroad managers:
"SHORTEN YOUR FREIGHT TRAINS so that the enginemen and
trainmen can haul the tonnage faster over the roads, and so make as many
miles pay in eight hour as they now do in ten hours."
To the State Legislatures these same spokesmen for the railroad work
en say:
"Pass laws LIMITING THE LENGTH OF FREIGHT TRAINS we
oppose big tonnage trains."
To the Farmers, Manufacturers, and Merchants they say:
"With shorter freight trains railroads can more your products faster
to the markets."
To the American Public that pays every dollar of the railroad bill
(and 44 eents of every dollar paid for transportation is for wages),
they say:
"All that the railroads have to do to meet onr demands for higher
wages is to shorten their trains, move the freight more rapidly and escape
the penalty of overtime wages." ,
What would be the result of taking these leaders of the 350,000 train
employes at their word shorten freight trains so that they can be run
at higher speed!
, Increasing the number of trains to handle the same tonnage would
call for more employes to do the same work, more track's, larger yards and
terminals, more supervision, and it is plain that there would be more eon
gestion of traffic and greater hazards in train operation. Hundreds of mil
lions a year would have to be spent by the railroads to increase their facili
ties and to operate the bigger plant.
IT WOULD BE AKIN TO USING HAND SHOVELS INSTEAD OF
PIYE-T0N STEAM DREDGES TO DIG A PANAMA CANAL
American railroads have spent enormous amounts, in reducing grades,
tutting down mountains and filling up valleys ; in increasing the hauling
power of locomotives and the carrying capacity of cars ; in putting down
rock ballast and heavy rails all for one purpose, to lower the cost of
operation. .
It is the public that has reaped the benefit in better and cheaper
railroad service.
If the railroads moved their tonnage in shorter trains at higher speeds,
the public, it is seen, would have to shoulder a great burden in the in
creased cost of transportation.
I .Would the public get value received for its money?
. Of the tonnage on the roads east of Chicago 60 per cent, consists of
Coal, coke, ores, stone and other mine products. To the publie it is of no
consequence whether this freight is a few hours longer on the road, so
long as there is a continuous and regular stream of it coming to the
markets. .
FOUR-FIFTHS OF ALL THE TONNAGE MOVING IN THE EAST
IS MADE UP OF LOW GRADE, SLOW MOVING FREIGHT, CARRIED
AT THE LOWEST RATES IN THE WORLD.
To abandon the big freight trains on American railroads in order to
increase the speed at which the bulk of the traffic moves, and thereby
enable the train employes to earn higher wages in shorter hours, would
place a great burden on American industry without giving the publie
any tangible benefit.
Give the Baby a Chance
Bad air, bad milk, over-crowd
ing,; poverty, dirt, ignorance,
heat these combine in. summer
to kill the city baby. It seems as
though the-brunt of the cities' san
itary sins were focused on the ba;
by. The baby didn't ask to come,
to live, in a hot,- air-tight tene
ment, to be fed ' on dirty, half
spoiled milk, to be pestered with
flies and mosquitoes. He is not
responsible for any of these con
ditions and it is his right that he
have fresh air, clean surroundings
and decent food. The United
States Public Health Service is
sues free of charge to all appli
cants a bulletin on "The Summer
Care of Infants." If should be
in the hands of every mother.
Florida produced 12,000,000
bi'shels of corn last year, and a
yield of 13,000,000 bushels is pre
dieted for the present year.. This
is a wonderful state. Tampa
Times.
,1
it - i ' - "lb: 1
A Sub-Marine
Philadalphia. Can a citizen
volunteer for training in tRe duti
es of the United States Marine
Corps, holding himselS in readi
ness to take the place of a regular
marine killed in war, be properly
termed a sub-marine?
That is what the "rookies" now
at the Marino Corps training
camp in Lansdowne, Pa., would
like to know.
Friends of the citizen "sea sol
diers" are telling them that a ma
rine, not regularly a marine, al
though coached in tho signals and
likely to be calld upon to "pinch
hit" for a regular marine, must
necessarily be a sub-marine.
The "rookies" themselves say
that Noah "Webster overlooked
this knotty problem when he
wrote his best seller, and they are
calling on sports editors to decide
the question.
An Elkton, Pa.", man has
cousins in the British army.
60
FIGHTING IN QUAGMIRES THE '
RUSSIANS CONTINUE ADVANCE
Going Behind the Returns
Some of our friends' who take
the Catts end of the governorship
controversy have been claiming
that democratic precedent and
tradition oppose going behind the
returns: that the result of an e-
lcctkyi must be accepted on its
face. Going behind the returns
i&. held up as a dangerous prece
dent to set. But in making these
assertions these contenders over
look two potent and overshadow
ing facts.
To begin with, thorer would 1)e
no object in preserving the ballots
if elections are to be accepted al
ways and without recourso to
further count or inquiry.A lot of
needless trouble was taken in seal
ing the ballot boxes and preserv
ing the records if no candidate
should be allowed the privilege of
seeking a recount. It is for this
very purpose that such pains are
required of officials in whose cus
tody the ballot boxes arc placed.
To assume that elections are con
ducted just as they should be, and
that returns are always properly
made would open the way to
wholesale frauds.
In the Qext place, the people of
Florida have- a problem to deal
with now that they never had be
fore, namely, the second choice
vote. Granting that precedent
opposes a reopening of the ballot
boxes, that precedent would not
hold good under present circum
stances, for the reason that a new
factor has been injected into the
problem. . '
We observe that, one of the
Catts partisans is contending that
the second choice vote is unconsti
tutional. This contention will do
no good, even if sustained, for the
entire election would be. invalid.
There is overwhelming evidence
to support the claim that the sec
ond choice vote was not properly
counted or recorded, leading in
evitably to the conclusion that the
will of the people as exprescsd in
their ballots has never yet been as
certained. Hence it is the veriest folly to
argue against the righteousness
of the recount now in progress.
Whenever the true results of the
election have been ascertained,
Mr. Knott is willing to abide the
result. Neither he nor- his sup
porters have ever intimated that
he would run as an independent
in any event, nor would he. Mr.
Knott and his supporters are
within the law of the state and the
party, while Mr. Catts and his
partisans are opposing both. Or
lando Reporter-Star.
Sustains The Herald's View
The Punta Gorda Herald very
sensibly opposes ' one-cent letter
postage on the ground that it will
cause a deficit in postal revenues
that will have to be made up in
some other tax. There are other
reasons for opposing the reduc
tion equally as good, and not the
least of them is the injury to com
mercial development outside the
great cities.
More than half the letter post
age of the United States is paid in
six large cities, where the great
mail order houses mail their tons
of literature and correspondence
to every quarter of the country,
When you make it easier for the
mail order man to reach the peo
ple, you have struck another blow
at the local merchant, you have
injured your community, and con
sequently every citizen of the
community.
In seconding the opposition of
the Herald, the Arcadia News
truthfully says: "Two cents is
a very reasonable price for which
to send a letter to the uttermost
parts of Uncle Sam's domains,
and have it delivered to' tho very
door of the addressee. The av
erage man wouldn't' deliver one
across town for many times two
cents. The Herald is right."
Daytona Journal. .
The Deutschland has managed
to turn a spectacular submarine
trick without plunging nations in
to sadness and resenement.
FUSH TEUTONIC ALLIES BACK
FROM SERETH
British Hold Germans Back Near
Pozieres and French Make
Gains South of Thiau
" mont Work
London, Eng.--The Germans
suffered further losses at the
hands of the French between the
Hem woods and the Somme riveO
losing there a line of their trench
es and 120 prisoners, and ten ma
chine guns, and also in the Ver
dun sector,where the French made
progress south of . the Thiaumont
work and captured five machine
guns, and took some houses in the
western part of the village of
Floury,
After a heavy bombardment of
the British positions, the Germans
launched a violent infantry at
tack north and northeast of Poz
ieres, and at two places succeeded
in entering British trenches. The
British" soon drove them out, in
flicting heavy casualties on them.
Amid continuous heavy rains,
which have turned the country in
to a quagmire, the Russians are
keeping up their strong offensive
against the Teutonic Allies in
Northern Galicia, and have push
ed further forward in the Sercth
and Graberki River region.
Also along the Stokhod River in
Volhynia, near the town of Zar
ecze, the ' Russians have captured
Teutonic trenches, taking twelve
officers and 2oo men prison--- and
capturing one machine gun. In
the Carpathians, the Germans re
port the capture of two peaks.
Constantinople reports a series
of gains for the Turks fighting a
gainst the Russians, and Petro
grad admits at least one of the
claims that the Russians have
been forced to retire under pres
sure to the region east of Kerman
shaw, Persia. An attack by the
Russians north of Bukan. on tho
Persian front, was put down with "
heavy losses to the Russians, ac
cording to Constantinople and in
Turkish Armenia, near Bitlis and
Mush, the Russians have . been
put to flight and the Turks have
taken from them positions the
RuHsians had previously captured.
Turks Well Whipped
The latest reports concern
ing the attack of Turks against
the British forces with the Suez
Canal their objective, indicates
tb Ottoman forces met with
a reverse even more serious than
was chronicled. Driven back
eighteen miles into the desert,
fighting rearguard actions, they
suffered heavy casualties, and of
their total force of 14,000 lost
forty-five officers and 3,000 men
made prisoners. They now have
been entirely cleared from the
Katia-Umaishi basin.
Viokmt fighting is in progress
between the Austrians and the
Italians especially around the Gor
izia bridgehead dn the Dorberdo
Plateau, and on the lower Isonzo
river. Near Monte Sabotino and
Monte San Michele, the Italians
captured advance Austrian posi
tior but Vienna says tho greater
portion of these were later retak
en by the Austrians,. On the low
er Isonzo Rome reports the cap
ture of Hill 85 which was held a
gainst violent counter-attacks.
Arcadia News: During the
first six months of the fiscal year
only about 25 per cent, of the to
tal tax was paid in this county,
and yet the new depository law
attempts to deny the board of
county commissioners the right to
issirc a warrant unless the funds
are in the bank to pay the same;
in other M'ords, they. must either
disregard the law, make a levy
double the amount actually neces
sary, or practically suspend bus
iness until just before the tax sale.
County court being in session
in Arcadia, about a dozen Punta
Oordans-are attending it as' law
yers, witnesses or victims. The
last are very few in number.
It
w
