Sty? iumttuj IteraU.
.t.lrilie
LAllATHCUUw o
?. ..tUODAPRR
UAMATH FALLS'
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER, j
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1916.
Price Five Cents
office
Yrtl-No."7
PDBURST MAKES
15,000 HOMELESS
9AMA0I ESTIMATED AT THREE
MILLION DOLLARS
H--ft Are "vd ,0 D'
IHI Towns 'Ars Obliterated an
AHSulktlnai In Thlrty-MII Zone De-y-Otbfli
of Homes and Hu
m ledlti Floallna Down the
20-YEAR TIME
MAKE PAYMENT
OFFERED AGAIN
Notifying Charles E. Hughes
of His Presidential Nomination
URNS VOTII BONDS FOR
CENTRAL ORIOON RAILROAD
lionds In the nniount of $ 126,000 for J
too purchase of a depot iltn and tor-i
mlnal for the proponed Btraborn mil
road have been voted by Ilurns, nr-'
cording to a dispatch In n Portland
paper. (
It In said that Hie bond liwue carried
by n very law majority. TIiIh evi
dence I ho wlllliif-nenti of IluniH, an In
true of other Central Oroj-.on towns, to
do everything potnlble to Kt the pro
noted railroad.
i
1 22 FARMER8 ON KLAMATH PftO.
JHCT AFFECTED
6pecll Act of Congren, Signed July
26th, Glvee Olfer of Twenty.Ycar
Paymint Conttructlon Charges to
Delinquent Farmer for Six Months.
Enables the Wnter User to Dlitrlh.
ute Their Payments.
ninel PreM Service
HtWTlNOTON. W. Vn.. Atur. W.
MUta taouianil icoit are Hl.cltor
)M letV. following a cloudburst ye.
UtUl ortr Cabin freek Valley. The
0NIU n relieving lh' sufferera with
tad tad tend.
II Ik MtlnuKd I linl llm ilwnh In
CsMa Crwk Valley. I'alnl freefc Vol
lerudAlonR Coal Itlvor have cnune.1 CREW
s HJUI 01 i,W."i'. I
Hwdrfdn of iruplii ore believed to
ttdtsd. Only thirty bodies have been'
rNSTfrfd.
All baUdlng li a thlil) mile voiii
fcst bl il ft ro) oil. Miiane of
ink anil debrN are II out Inn down'
.i. 1L.I. nitov At (lnllllwllln (llllll. I
ub vniv i... ... .......,-.-..--, --
NEED TWO YEARS
CLASSIFY LANDS
OF CRUISERS AND EH.
PERTS GATHERS NEAR ASH.
LAND TO COMMENCE CLA83I.
FICATION OF GRANT LANDS
AHIII.AN1), Auk 10. -The hotel Aim-
Tin' twenty-two water tiseis on the
Klniiiiiih piojcct who two yearn ujro
ill not n will then selves of the twenty,
j ear extension In lime of paylm; eon
'ilriietlon rniin of (lie pioject have,
been Kiniilnl nix nmnthii In which to
(.il:e niUanliice of tlio extension 1'ren.
Idem WIIhum nli'iKcl on July -filh n Hpe
, rial act pt'iniKlliiK thin extension of
t time; the act applies to nil rvclnmn
tlon proJeclH condurtrd by the govern
ment. HecitUKe It watt believed ten years
w.ih too Mhorl a tlinn In which to pay
'I he inn cntiMrurtlon conl which had
; September 21, I!) 1 1, nil eXloiiHlon of
5 ad bodies were discovered ; hprc. ,u,ftunUl(rt(, for cmr f)f J- ZZZVmXZ
ciiiIkitk and timber experts who will user who enred to have the oxtcnnlon.
undertake the classification of the i These farmers wete given twenty
j)ro.'cri In which to pay thnt portion of
I the ?30 construction eoKt, which had
not already been paid. In most caos
, thin bnlHtice was $18 per acre, four
vision of the United Stales Innd office, payments of $3 each having already
Ik here to pemonnlly nuportlne the on-ibeen made. Twenty-two water users
litbllHhment of !),.. rnmpa eiu.t of A-h-n"l,11,,K fi 'Kr ,p,lt of 1, lanJ unJer
i lie project, reruneil to pirii up for n
tkm flmtlne debrili. I
Hiatal townt hato been obliterated
Hlnllroada dmtroyed.
Batneii are cllndnK to the bant
MhMM, wltlm; for the furloun wn
im to put by.
Ttemllllla lx preeiitliiR loullnr of
i Md bulldlliipi.
railroad jn-ant Innda In Oreeon,
renin a acene of unuaunl activity.
ImuIh l Sborp, chief of the field di
luted Piew Berrien
C1ARLE8TON, V Va., Auk. 10.
UteUvkex roiifnu- the limit of life to
niiM Iilltlr1rt.il men u-lll hn mil tn
i twenty year extension.
In the crow which la now i. . .. . . .... -.. ".
ill. i cnn. tv.v v.ny i i or iin ou juniD Bccuoii oi me act
UlMl(ablnCrwklliy. ,mWt mmt of ,h, ,,. romlns'Brnntlnic Iheae water uacra alx months
Innd.
work
i la otbrr dlhlrlctH affected' were
tilt to eicipe.
Ike tate-.t sd Icex place the dead nt
afty.
NMB SUSPECTS
ARE ARRAIGNED
WlllNOS ONLY GRINS WHEN IN.
MCTMENTS ON THREE COUNTS
from Portland.
According to Mr. Slmip the crw
facen a job which will probably take
two year. The rrew will work north
from the Callfornlii-Orciron line.
In which to take advnntago of the
twenty yenr offer la as follews:
"Thnt any person whose land or en
tiy has heretofore becoino subject to
the reclamation law, who dexlres to
, Focure the benefits of tho extension of
Cenvlct Eecapes .the period of payments provided by thh
I'nlled Preaa Sen Ice 'act shall, within six months after the
HHDDINn, Aur. 10. John Eukcr, a lasunnce of tho flmt public notice here
lonvlct, escaped from the convict rond under nffectlns his land or entry, notl
ramp nenr here Inat night. He la tho fy tho secretary of tho Interior In the
alxllt convict to oscapo from this camp manner to be prescribed by said sec
in the last three weeks. William Snun- rctnry of tho Interior, of hla accept-
les, who escaped last Sunday,
been captured atv Anderson.
i Explosion Kills Twelve
AMI READ TO HIM BEFORE t'nlted Prwui genlct)
JUOOE CAIANIQH
Iiik mice of all tho terms and conditions of
this net, and thereafter bla lands or
entry shall bo subject to all of the
provisions of this act: Provided, thnt
upon suflllccnt showing; the secretary
of the Interior mny, In his discretion,
permit notice of acceptance of all tho
VkHtd ! s,.rvce
IAN FllANCigco, Aug. 10. Moon-
T.wwaDiux Hillings and Nolan were of a mile,
Mingled before Judbo Cabanlsh thin
Watt Welnburg'a caso wan con
"a until 8aUirdny, those of tho oth-
islll Tuesday. Mooney's request
. rwijwuemeni or two weeks wan
eaMd.
MICIIEZ, British Columbia. Auk. 10.
Twelve nro known to bo dead as a
result of an explosion In mine number terms and conditions of this act to bo
three here this forenoon. Ughtnlni; filed nt any tlmo after the time limit
atruck the signal Are. Igniting; gas or . hereinbefore fixed for filing such ac-
dust. Rauidam were thrown a Quarter rcptance snail navo expired, conai.
Honed, however, that where tho ap
plicant for such acceptance Is In ar
rears on construction charges, he shall
nt tho time of acceptance pay such In
stallments of tho construction chnrRO
Flour Soat Wracked
United Press Service
HAN FRANCISCO. Aug. 10. A en
bleirram announces that tho steamer ns he would have been required to pay
MOOney SSVS he has tint nnJlnnmlnln on rimtn In Eneliml from llBd bo accepted tills OCt Within tho
Wj counwl yel. I Portland, Ore., was wrecked as she time limit hereinabove fixed, plus tho
WH l nonchalant, and only! was entering 8t. Michaels strait, In penalties that would havo accrued h
Maud when Uie Indictment arnlnnt tho Atom Islands. The vcbso! had n . he so accepted, and such applicant
J Wi read. He was arraigned on, big cargo of flour, which It Is believed
-? CMIatS. will h . tntl loan.
Prominent Democrats
to Speak Here Monday
.. -By w-A- Diim
1; rTTMWl oampalan of lata k.
2fiIOtb count'r u t4 for
oday avwlng, August 14tb,
ff W T. H. OrmwfoM of L
2 m 44rMi our tiUcetu la be-
J . Miner and Mr, Crawford
2 known Ortgonlang, and art
iJJiaoBg tht bNt of Oregon's
jSTJJJ. Thi AjMrioaniMB ooulaU
(JjJcttMloBl of m jtWical
&'i3?.w MRMtt ta
.z:t w awa aiata or
MMvaawlff
the American people. K you arc a
shall thereafter be upon the same
status that he would havo beon had ho
accepted the provisions of this net
within the time limit hereinabove fixed
and thereafter tho lands or entry of
any aUcb persons so filing such notice
of acceptance shall be subject to all
the provisions of this act."
Republicans Won't Quit
United Press Service
WASHINGTON, D. C, Aug. 10. The
republican caucus today declined tho
proposal for an adjournment of con
gress In September. It Is Intimated
that the Illiteracy test Immigration bill
will not be Included in the democratic
UI.I..J to k. Kuklitnl" VAtl Will Kit
""-" tf - . .kl. AaMtnt flAMBMil
glad to bear taeat speakers, and irprosrum n ""u " -""
you art opposed to bis idea you will llt,bnown erU,.P 8n
be a broader man or woman to hear nknB!" PaJ
these speakers defend tht admtol8tra.nedPre" SerT,ce .. .
ines speuen oeiwoa uw juu.m qalVESTON, Aug. 10. An unldsn.
jSu iin i jiii imi i hi i mi n itmmmmmmmmmmmmttimmammnim
SBH C iiAKPINO
RUSSIANS CAPTURE
TOWN OF CHRYPLIN
10,00 ANTELOPE
SAID TO ROAM IN
LAKE AND HARNEY
COUNTRY AL80 18 ALIVE
SAGE HEN8
WITH
Game Warden Ramsby Returna From
Eastern Oregon Trip for State An.
telope Can Be 8een Everywhere
FRENCH FORCE8 ADVANCE
HEM WOODS
TO
Austrlans Flee Before Italians, De
stroying and Abandoning Their Sup
plies Artlllerylng Active Around
Verdun, But Infantry Attacks Have
Ceased German Air Raid Is Frus
trated by French.
United Press Service
PETROORAD, Aug. 10 The Rus
sians have captured Chryplin, a rail-
way station three miles east of Stan
I Islau. The right wing of the Russian
With Field Glasses Go Into Nevada ' forces have reached Monasterzyska.
In Winter, Where They Are Not Pro.
tected by Law.
SENATOR WAR
Charles n. Hughes, republican ran-
Probably more than 10,000 antelope
are to be found this month In Lake,
Harney and Malheur counties, accord
ing to Deputy Game Warden Carey
j Ramsby, who returned yesterday with
j ce siceiton and E. A. Cress from a
trip to tho country east and north of
Lakeview. Warden Ramsby made the
trip to get an estimate of the number
of antelope in that section of Oregon.
Senator Warren O. Hardlns. chairman! "In the co"try In Warner Valley
I
I,
CHARLES E. HU&HE5
dldato for president, van formally notl- of ho republican national bonvenUon and east just over the range from
niiu cnnirman ui uie noiiucauon com- " vuuuy, we saw uneiope ni-
the most any time," said Warden Ramsby
this morning. We spotted the antelope
with long range field glasses.
"Of course we did not make a count
1-ed of his nomination at a very large niltlee, was jmotocranhed with
meeting In Cnrncglo hnll, New York. ' candidate during tho proceedings.
on the N'isnlof railway, twelve ml lea
northeast of Stanlslau.
The Austrlans have crossed the Bis
tritza River and destroyed the bridge
behind them to prevent pursuit by the
Russians. The Austrlans are prepar
ing for defense on the left bank of the
ataulslau River. The Russians today
nil.-nnced a few miles toward Worokty.
Price ofFIour GdesUp
$2 a Barrel in a Month
United Press Service
ROME, Aug. 10. The Italians are
continuing their pursuit of the Aus
trlans who were defending Alsorizza.
au aviation station six miles north of
Coritza.
The fleeing Austrlans are being bard
pressed by Italian Infantrymen, de
stroying and abandoning their sup
plies. With the fall of Aisovizza, over zL
000 prisoners were taken. Thousands
n( Italians who had been held by tho
pro-
j-of-'the- antelope, but. there are..twoJ.Austr(aps hadlved for weeks esder-
runununj iu mm country woo say mail rrouna. wnen me iwuan iroopd en
at the right time of the year they can- teied the city the imprisoned Italians
lead a party to where 10,000 antelope rushed out, cheering the victors.
can be counted. I do not doubt their
word." '
Most of the antelope go south Into
Nevada In the winter, according to I
Warden Ramsby. Antelope can be
killed in Nevada, but in Oregon they
are perpetually protected. Warden
hat this year's wheat crop will be 'Ramsby says the people of Lake and
about C45.000.000 bushels, or a de-- Harney .counties are much displeased
United Pie.ss Sen-ice
CHICAGO. Auc. 10. The whotesale
price of flour today advanced 50 cents oieasn from last year'.- crop of 358,-' wttn the Oregon Jaw, because they feel
a barrel, making nn advance of $2 in 000,000 bushels.
the lust month. i ,
Tho bakers of Chicago are consider- Hilled Pres Sen Ice
ing replacing tho nickle loaf of bread WINNIPEG, Aui;. 10. Tho provin-
with a slightly larger ten cent loaf. ' clal bureau of cropa estimates that the!
Tho wnciit pu at tne fiock exennnso cauauian wneai crop uns year win oe
is a whirlpool of excitement because of one-tbird less than tho crop of last
the aee-snwlng of prices, and conflict- year.
Ing rumors about probable changes
United Press Service
WASHINGTON, D. C. Aug. 10. Tho
department of agriculture estimates
United Press Servtco
CHICAGO, Aug. 10. September
wheat closed today at 1.44. Decem
ber wheat closed at 1.47H.
SCOTLAND PEOPLE (HUGHES IS AFTER
AT EAGLE RIOGEi FARMERS' VOTES
they should have a right to kill ante
lope inasmuch as they are plentiful,
and spend a large part of the year in
this state.
The country' east and northeast of
Lakeview for miles and miles is alive
with sage hens," says Wards lam
by. "We killed all we could eat, and
without trouble could have killed
many more than we could hare
hnuled home."
EXPERT SWIMMERS AND TENNIS URGES UNITY OF THOUGHT IN
CHAMPION AL80 ARE THERE. AMERICANISM, AND 8AY8 MEX
SWIMMING AND DANCING EN- ICAN SITUATIONS QRIVIOU9
JOYED GREATLY , SPECTACLE
Several poople of prominence are United Press Service
rusticating at Eagle Rldgo, according' FARGO, N. D., Aug. 10. The ar-
to word from there received this morn- rival of Charles E. Mughes here has
ing. One family, Mr. and Mrs. B. Bar- occasioned an influx of thousands of
nett and daughter are from Scotland. fler9
Miss E. Ream of Alameda, who also Is
staying at the tavern, is champion Grand Fork8 today-
woman tennis player of Alameda. ! His cuporters bopo to socure for him
Dr, Joseph Novitzsky of San Friin- the support of tho powerful Farmers'
Cisco and Miss Loretta ShUltZ of the Non-partisan Leairue.
same place are swimmers of much,
hblllty. Other guests are Mr. and Mrs. i ..... ,. Hapv,rn
Uinnkenourg or nomeiey ana n. rt;ei
Explosion Kills Four
United Press Service
CHICAGO, Aug. 10. Twenty per
se ns were Injured, four fatally, this
morning when a short circuit caused
tvo explosions and set fire to a street
car. Passengers in the car were
thrown Into a panic, and 'the doors
being jammed, many were trampled
under the feet of other.
- Italian cavalry cyclists have
t:resed further east of Goritza.
United Press Service
PARIS, Aug. 10. The French, have
advanced to the Hem woods, despite
heavy rains.
German attacks south of the Somme
and east of Altklrk have failed.
There has been no Infantry activity
around Verdun today, although artil
lery firing keeps up ceaselessly.
The German aeroplanes attempting
a raid along the Somme hare been
rovted.
United Press Service
LONDON, Aug. 10. This afternoon
tbo Australians progressed farther
northwest of Pozleres, consolidating
their new positions.
The Germans are bombarding allied
petitions southeast of the Troaea
woods.
Blacklist Reduced
United Press Service
WASHINGTON. D, C. Aug. 10. The
state department announces that three
American firms have been removed
from the English blacklist since the
American protest was received.
Hughes Will Speak in :
Portland on August 16
of Los Angeles.
Swimming is much enjoyed at Eagle
GRAND FORKS, Aug. 10. Addres-
'i.. . , , . ,. I tilled cruiser, believed to be a British
every yoar-aro more and mort oom-j""" xRUJarIne raerchantman ox-
ing to be independent uunsen. ,". . ,,. m.v .oemmt for Ridte. as Is riding the waves behind a' he started his campaign tour. Hughes at 7 a. m. on the 16th.
nm venvu uviv, .. ... --. -.... -- ......
(Herald Special Service)
PORTLAND, Aug. 10. The repub
lican state central committee la mak
ing elaborate preparations to handle
an Immense throng on the occasion ot
tie forthcoming visit of Charles B.
Hughes, republican candidate for pres
ident, who win speak la this city on
August 16th, at 8 p. m. Mr. Hughe
and his party of twenty-eight, includ
sing his first audience of farmers since, ing Mrs. Hughes, will reach Portland
us attend the political
iL'SSS or lib. presenc. of tho British cruiser,
democratic-let us hear the treat aw i ..,.,.....
ot 'Ji !?iJ!?l""2! h 8 Newton and party left this
HS WW IB W WHI " w ww vi , , . . .. -llnt,,, hnnrt '
luonuos w mw v.-- .,,.-!
motor boat. On cool evenings dansing
J enjoyed.
Coattaufd oa Pa9 4
Crater Lake after huokleberries.
McFall Visits.
J. E. McFall was In .town today frvm
his farm near Olen to buy provisions.
urged protection for farmer a well' w mu wm be held either
as for f aetonr workers at " " h aippodrome at
a. for factory worker. TwenUath and Marshall streets. The
He urged unity ot thought in Aaoranawywln accommodate about ",000
Icanlsm and called the Mexican sltua- neosle and the hlDDodrome 10.000. and
tlon a grevious spootaole.
U tkt Utter hulUlag eaa he pat la
i
ti
condition soon enough It probably will
be used by the committee.
Mr. Hughes' schedule calls for stop
in Oregon only at Portland, Meaford.
Ashland- and Roseburg, but NatkiaaL.
Committeeman William and the stab
committee will make an effort to have
the scbftdule changed so a" tQt give
Salem, Albany and Eugene loat a
few minute each. V '
At the Portland meeting State Chair
man C. I McNary will present Gover
nor Witbycombe, who wall latrodaep
Mr. Hughes. r
Only the Hifhe party aaaatertiw
ot the Uto and oeeaty coaiawtteeii
will have seat oa the etape, , ,
CoBtiauei oa fape;v - v
TV. if
. .
