-EI) niifltrEi'd!ftb(rtir f.rtTirBirfrinrrirfisif
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR NO. 163
SALEM, OREGON, THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1916
nninn rrnrrt rroikTrno ON TRAINS AND KBWU
X X T V ly.Eii.ll AO frTAHnH 7178 OEMT
AFRAID RUMANIA MAY B
INDUCED TO
Pro-Ally Demonstrate I In Rumanian Cities Followed News
of Russian and If. in VictoriesBulgarian Soldiers Stir
Up Var Feeling to Allied Offensive from Salonika
While Russians jse In On Lemberg May Decide Her
Italians Pursue istrians
ByEdL.Ken,
, (United Press Staff Correspondent.)
London, Aug. 10. Russian troops under General
Letchitzky were approaching the Bistritza river, only
three miles east of the Galician city of Stanislau, yester
day morning, according to dispatches from Petrograd
today. '
The Austro-Germans were expected to make a final
stand on the west bank of the Bistritza. If they are driv
en from these positions by the advancing Slavs the fall of
Stanislau and an Austro-German retirement nothward
to the Dniester is considered certain. It is barelv possible
that Stanislau already has been captured by the troops of
the czar, officials believe.
If Stanislau does fall to the Russians, the retreating
right wing of General Von Bothmer's army is expected to
take up positions behind the strongly fortified Dniester
river bridgehead north of Halitz. At this position the
decisive battle for Lemberg may be fought.
Delayed dispatches from Bucharest today reported
that the Rumanian war party,
of the allies, has been stirred
unexpected stroke in southeastern Galicia and the Sur
prising victory tJf the Italians on the Isonzo.
Pro-Ally demonstrations followed news of the Russian
successes against the Austro-Germans and the early
Italian gains on the Isonzo. - News of the fall of-Goritz
had not' reached Bucharest when the dispatches were
filed. - . ;
Alleged acts'of aggression by Bulgarian soldiers along
the Rumanian frontier have heightened the ill feeling
against the central powers. -The situation became so
tense that a special cabinet meeting was held this week.
A dispatch from Amsterdam today asserted Germany
again is uneasy over the Balkan situation, though satis
fied that Rumania will take no immediate action. The
chief concern in Berlin is that the allies will begin a great
offensive from Salonika while the Russians are closing in
on Lemberg and the Italians driving southward toward
Trieste, convincing the Rumanians that the hour has come
to join the allies and invade Hungary.
Austrian Estreating
Rome, Aug. 10. The Austrian avia
tion station. of Aisovizza, sixe miles
enst of Gorita, has been captured by
Italian troops who are continuing pur
unit of the Anstrinn force that retreat
ed from Goritz, according to reports
received here today.
Cavalry detachments and Bcrsnglieri
I'yclist detachments entered Aiaovirza
.iftcr putting to flight the Austrian
' rear guard, which attempted to make
h stand in the eastern suburbs of Go
Titz. , In this section .1 body of Aus
trian troops is reported to have been
r.ut off from the main force.
I'ursuit of the Austrian army has
been somewhat hampered by the nec
wity of repairing damaged bridges
iii.d roadways destroyed by the enemy
ln-fore the "retreat from Goritz. In
fintry detachments," however, are in
close 'contact witn the Austrian right
wing, striking uncensina blows and at
tempting to cut off and surround bod-
m Mi
i
rreucn troops mur iuitu-
Groceries ordered by telephone alius, the allies .Homme offensive last night,
cm f weigh less. With all th' news-Ladvancing in the region of the Hem
sec
.apers full o' beauty hints it's 'fuanyj
wo don't see more beauties. I
E
JOIN ALLIES
favoring action on the side
to great action by Russia's
ies of Austrian troops moving touth
ward toward the Car so plateau.
Large numbers of heavy guns, some
of which the enemy had made iueffct
ual attempts to destroy, fell into the
hands of General Cadorua's forces at
Goritz.
. King Victor Emmanuel is understood
to have been nt the tsonzo front when
Goritz fell, though he has not yet en
tcrd the Austrian stronghold.
Great street demonstrations occur
red in Rome last night when the cap
ture of (ioritz. was announced, Crowds
marched through the streets singing
the Italian and allied anthems and
cheering the king, the Italian com
mander and the army.
Think It Only Beginning
The public accepts the capture of
Goritz as only the beginning of a great
move southward which they believe
will culminate in the taking of Trieste
It is believed here that the whole Aus
trian Isonzo front from Tolmina south
ward eventually will be broken.
Correspondents report that the cap
ture of one of the heights surrounding
Grttz was effected by a daring eutr
irUe. Italians dug along underground
tunnels to the Austrian lines. Atter a
heavy bombardment eeverul hundred
Italians suddenly swung from the
mouths of these tunnels and fell on
the Austrians who were taken com
pletely taken by surprise.
An official statement from te war
office this afternoon announced that
Italian cavalry and cyclist have made
further progress east of Goritz and that
Italian troops continue crossing to tie
east bank of the Jsonzo over the re
habilitated bridge,
A total of 21.750 prisoners have been
taken on the Goritz front, according
to dispatches from army headquarters
today. The guns and other booty have
not vet been counted.
A remarkable scene greetil trie Ital
ian troons when they entered the city
of Goritz. Several thousand Italian
residents who for weeks had lived un
dergrouml, rushed out bringing flowers
ami Itn an flags trom eonceaiea piac
A and cheered the conquerors. In
other underground caverns several
thonsands Austrians were found and
made prisoners.
French Official Story.
Taris, Aug. 10. Despite fog and rain,
(Continued ea Paje Twi.)
Little Girl's Body Is
Found In the Alley
Portland, Or., Aug. 10. Lying in an
alley, the crushed and broken body of
Lillian Cunningham, .aged 7, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. James C. Cunningham,
was found today by Elmer Baker, a
barber, on hiB way to work. The corpse
was lying directly under the bedroom
window of tae little girl. Police be
lieve she fell four stories to her death.
The child's father, who runs the
Alton rooming house, said he put Lil
lian to bed at 11 o'clock. About 11:30
p. m. a woman in the basement heard
a thud in the alley. She did not in
vestigate. The body was taken to the
morgue.
Detectives who are working on the
case believe the child could not sleep,
climbed to the window and toppled
over.
IS
Equals 1,000,000 Bushels ;
Day for Year and Is Worth
Now $270,000,000
Pes Moines, la., Aug. 10. J. P. Mor
gan, who doubled his father's fortune
in two years as 'fiscal agent for the al
lies, has nothing on the Iowa farmers,
whose corn crop this year will be worth
$52,320,000 more than last year, accord
ing to the estimates of experts based
on tne rederal crop report.
This means at least 200,000 automo
biles in Iowa next year, perhaps 225,000
as against a paltry 175,000 this year,
only one to every 13 people. It means
electric light systems for prosperous
Iowa farmers and electric washers and
flat irons for the farmers' wives, it
means water systems and bath rooms
and trips to California and the south
next winter.
Hot winds and rust have injured the
wheat crop in the north and corn in
southern states has suffered but Iowa,
with 303,000,000 bushels of Corn last
year, has in prospect 305,000,000 bushels
thia year end. the selling price now is 7.1
cents as against 71 iu 1915. ' Wheat and
oata show a falling off but the advance
in price promises to make up for it and
caftle and hogs are expected to ad
vance. .
ALBERT HADLEY IS
Passed Worthless
Checks,
Deserted from Army and
Abandoned Wife
San Francisco, Aug. 10. According
to stories coming to police beadqiiar
ters from all parts of the coast today,
the career or Albert llndley, arrestod
lost nigiit in Petersburg, 111., would
furnish an unfailing store of plots for
writers of nickel detective stories. He
was arrested after a chase of over a
year and is said to have cashed a
worthless $o08 draft just before ar
rest.
Hadley is much wanted. The United
States' army wants him on a charge of
deserting and taking an army check
book. The police of many coast cities
want him on charges of passing worth
less army checks. He is also wanted
on a charge of deserting his bride, an
eiguteen year old llnquinm, Wash,
girl here, ami the Southern l'ncific al
leges that at Fresno they settled with
him for an accident that it was later
discovered did not happen.
Kudley's check operations are alleg
ed to have aggregated about $10,000.
England and Germany
to Exchange Prisoners
London, Aug. 10. Croat Britain
has reached an agreement with Ger
many for the exchange of all prisoners
over 4;! years of age regardless of I known early today but there ware bun
numbers, Lord Hubert Cecil announced (Ireds of them. At least 15,000 were
in commons this afternoon
Arrange-
A
nients are being sought for an exchange
of equal numbers of prisoners of mili
tary age, he stated.
A Copenhagen dispatch to the United
Press three weeks ago reported that
such an exchange had been effected.
New York, Aug. 10. The
worst reports are true. They
were confirmed today by news
from Paris, brought personally
by Mrs. Belle Armstrong.
'Skirts will be worn longer
in length. Some of them, Mrs.
Armstrong says, will sweep the
ground. She brought several
with her from Mailelaine's in
Paris.
Altoona, Pa., is rapidly enforcing the
Sunday closing laws.
15,000 HOMELESS
ABOVE 100
Cloudbursts Send Angry Tor
rents Down West Virginia
Streams
DAMAGE IS ESTIMATED
AS HIGH AS $5,000,000
Waters Laden with Bodies,
Houses, Pianos, Furniture
1 and Stock
75 ABE DROWNED
Huntington", W. Va., Aug. 10.
Jarolda Valley, a mining
town in Boone county, was com
pletely washed away iu yester
day's flood aud 75 of its 500 in
habitants were drowned, accord
ing to telephonic advices late
this afternoon, The town was
on Coal river.
.
Charleston, W. a., Aug. 10. Esti
mates based on reports received up to
noon today put the loss of life in the
flood which swept Cabin Creek valley
duriug a cloudburst yesterday nt 50
to 75.
Fu'.ly 5,000 persons are homeless and
the property loss on Cabin Creek alone
is placed at $3,000,000. The total loss,
including damage on Paint Creek and
Coal River, will exceed $5,000,000.
Sixteen bodies have been recovered
and others hav been seen in wreckage
along Cabin Oet"Jc. . . .
Late reports 'confine; the loss. of life
to Cabin Creek. Many houses were
washed away along Conl river but the
valley there is wide and the, waters
rose "less .rapidly, permitting residents
to escape to the hills. -
Great property damago is reported
from Paint Creek but no lives were
lost there.
Huntington, W. Va., Aug. . 10.
G'overnor Hatfield ordered two more
companies, of the Second regiment into
the West Virginia flood district1 to
day when reports of terrible loss of life
and suffering apparently confirmed
early estimates. ;
More than 30 bodies have been recov
ered and on Cabin Greek the death list
is placed at more than 100. Among the
bodies taken from the swirling waters
were
towns.
every
Cabi
the Coal river, Cabin Creek and' Taint
Creek valleys.
All stories from the scene of the dis
aster agree that it was a real cloud
burst that swept the stricken district.
The towns and villages are built most
ly upon the sides of steep, rocky hills
barren of trees. The storm had a clean
sweep through the region and simply
flooded down everything in its path.
Looting was begun shortly after the
worst of the storm had passed. Rail
road police, local constabulary and oth
ers quickly organized to protect the
thousands of homeless huddled on the
bare hill sides. They were relieved this
morning in some localities when a com
pany of militia dispatched from Charlcs
ton'last night reached the washed-oit
region. The troop brought with them
food and much needed tents.
Floods Are Receding.
The Kanawha river was receding this
morning but was still several feet high,
running swiftly and carrying down on
its crest houses, barns, chicken coops,
pianos and hundreds of pieces of fur
niture. One house that swept along on
its current carried on top the body of a
boy. Boatmen went out and recovered
it.
The number of home carried from
their
foundations, was not definitely
Ul UU U 1 1 14 1 i li - . iron iiiivw " '
. , . i 1 .. . 1 . . , I A I . 1 . 1
camjiea nirougn.ui .ue nig..i
or a pour .- K
m dipi, Tiirmur umidvii. I
rrooertv damage in the stricken dis
trict was enormous, estimates being as
high as .r.O0O,0W). Hundreds or miners
and members of the families are home
less, huddling on the mountain slopes.
Many homes of employes of the
Wyatt Coal company and the Cabin
Creek Consolidated Coal company were
destroyed.
Two companies of militia were sent
from the mobilization camps at Kana
wa City with tents and supplies.
Floods, started cloudbursts at the
head of Paint Creek, Cabin Creek and
Coal river affected a zone of 30 miles
radius from Montgomery.
All creek branch lines of the Chesa
peake and Ohio railroad were damaued
so badly traffic was imposiblo. The
main line bridge at Mount Carbon, four
miles east of Montgombery, was de
stroyed when 10 houses struck it.
Torrents poured down the narrow
(Continued on Pag Eight.)
SIR
OF FLOOD
23 recovered at Cabin Creekt " i. WM , w ailli 50 anri there was less hoarseness, al-
. Others were being takan out '"""niece for kisses bestowed on though bo plainly showed the strain of
little while from the creek above . c? .P'ec f.0' n,V fined the Lit few dais of campaigning. De-
in Creek town. "n"' .!, ,Z mite the hot weather the candidate
I, mmr roaxfc IWO 000 In' me Kin KCUin v. -r--- - , ... IIMU
STEAMER BEAR AFLOAT
Eureka, Cal., Aug. 10. Hopes
of saving the steamer Bear,
which went aground on a reef
near here in June, with a loss of
five lives, ran high today when
it was learned that the tugs
which gave the first pull to the
vessel last night had succeeded
in getting her afloat in a basin
that has been dug around her.
It wis at first believed that the
final pull would not be made un
til Sunday, but last night 's ef
fort was so successful that it is
believed the tugs may attempt
to bring her to deep water be
fore that time. 1
DYNAMITERS 10 BE
Letters Written by Mrs. Wein
berg to Husband Are
. Incriminating
Snn Francisco. Auc 10. The five
persons charged with murder in con-'
nection with the suitcase dvnamitine 1
which claimed .nine victims here on
July-22, will be arraigned today before
Superior Judge Cabaniss and a date
opened - that his cases are- virtually
will be set for their trials. District At
torney Fickert declared before court
completd and that he is anxious to
have the trials at as early a date as
possible,
Meantime, Fickert's assistants today
examined Mrs. Israel Wemburg, wife famolll) farraorg non-partisan league. Up
of one of the five suspects, in regard in the northwest the farmers alliance
to letters she wrote her husband from rpprpsentB a new thing in politcs. Ac
Cleveland, Ohio, on July 23 and July c(ming to ex-Representative Manahan,
5. In the first of these, written the wno tumped North Dakota recently for
day after the explosion, she said: "I the league, just before it carried the
have been uneasy. I have been read- nomination of prnctically all its candi
ing about that bomb explosion." The dates in both old parties at the pri
second 'etter contained this question: maries, the league will agaiu .be suc
"Ilave they . arrested the Mooncys or cessful 'in the full elections,' so. far as
arty of the d'rhot boyst" the state ticket is concerned and wiH
. The expression of uneasiness 'the day eject professional politicians from on-'
after the dynamiting, before the police' trol. Then, according tO'Manahan, they
suspected Weinburg is regarded as will enact laws for stato owned eleva
significant. Fickert declares that on tors, revision of the tax laws, mutual
.Inly 85, when Mrs. Weinburg asked If insurance against hail and other pro
tho Mooneyg had been arrested, she gressive plans. ' H I"
did not know her husband and Thomas Sponsors for Hughes .are hoping that
Mooney and his wife were then under the republican candidate carry such a
arrest and thev believe this letter ts convincing message to the farmers in
another link in" their chain of evidence North Dakota and that, being already
:.-.! well organized, thev will swing that
iuuii:uuuk ''P"
Say Judge Gave Kisser
r ct D t-
rlVe Sale RateS
-
Dallas. Texas, Aug. 10. Did you
know that a kiss is worth just twice
miipn TO B 11HII1 II It 19 IW U " " ' -
i . . it I., n n njtmanl
, tUTpod,
A .'. ,.1 .:..i.Knr-.KI -,v,
Sa tis bov 10 and the girl S.
Vim. out for vourself how many times
William and Lucilo kissed each other
Court attaches iook one iuo. uv .u-
cille and returned the verdict that the
judge gave Madden bargain rates.
I ti. k if .... wilt Imloe. sn ml- eovernor's voice was improved rouay
Trainmen Standing Firm
for Each and Every Demand
But Mediators are Hopeul
New York, Aug. 10. "We're stand
ing firm," was tho word brought from
the. conference with the federal board
of mediation on behalf of the 400,0(10
trainmen of the country, by A. B. Oar
retBon, head of the conductor! brother
hood today.
Followine- session during which the
nnvernment mediators met first with I
the representatives of the railway mair
of tie railway mi l
,th the brotherhood
clear that the train-
agera and then wi
i " ,
nnu UN. II WUB 1I1UUO
. nn wi, ; ,i.eir
,,mand fo. iiuht hour iaJ. Garret
son declared they would continue to
stand their ground throughout the con
ference. It was evident that armfcd as
the representatives of the trainmen are
to call a atrike, they have no intention
of yielding to suggestions of arbitra
tion, tiarretson oecinreu ine.y wuuiu in
sist upon tho granting of their demands
in full. ...
The federal mediators met first with
representatives of the employers for a
brief session todny and then with tho
hrnlhorlmod leaders. Judge nanioers
snid the board expected to hold another)
meeting with the railway managers thisi
afternoon after whiea iney womu
fer with the represcmauves oi iuo i' -
plc.yes again. All meetings were execu- (,We ftr(, worjjng aR ranidly as pos
tive and no statement, was made at I anj nor((, for an earv settlement
their conclusion. Judge Chambers siH but we cant prophesy anything," he
he had not communicatee wnn i n-m-
dent Wilson as to the situation.
The federal board heard the 19 rail
road managers who comprise the na
tional conference committee of the rail-
IIS IS AFTER
VOTE OF FARMERS
OF
Given Warm Welcome at Far
go Where Crowd Gathers
to Hear Him
GETS GLIMPSE OF HICKORY
SHIRTS AND GALLUSES
These In Vivid Contrast to His
White Yest and Hard
Boiled Collar
By Ferry Arnold.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Fargo, N. D., Aug. 10. Charles Evans
Hughes, from the effete east set out to-
dav to capture the farmer vote. The re-
publican nominee got his first glimpse
of hickory shirt and the gojlus as a
Prl"dcntial
candidate today. Fargo
cave him a royal welcome. Farmers
from everywhere came in their autos
to hear the former justice of the su
preme court of the United States ex
pound his doctrines of republicanism.
h , carance ln North Dakota
t0(Jttjr bMauge o( th, suspicion of poli-
Particular interest centered in
ticinns that the O. O. P. candidate is
,: f i,i,in v,i,th nnknts'
tl. n." tfc. n n p v;h nch a
swing they count on further farmer
strength from other states. .
Hi rrll V Lll J luo u VI - -
Hughes had a busy program ioaay
Had tomorrow. Only two sot speeches
were scheduled for today at targo ana
Grand Forks but it was expected that
the candidate wou d find PPrtunJy
T 1 1 r Ml' V I' 1 11 1 1 1' 11 1 II 111 1 1 11 1 111 i I -
.hlrt" olnnilun collar and white vest
vest Wilted away in short order. Mr.
Hughes wore her "No. nat a s m -
pie -narrow
u.. -
just once since leaving Bridgchampton
aad that was nt Niagara Falls.
roads yesterday. Following the con
ference today the mediators planned to
,l.af Art niimiiniailt Uhilih Will hfl Sill.
NORTH DAKOTA
i . arm stuck niumuiiy w ihwi
mitted to both sides. If the proposed the United States through an ""
terms of settlement are rejected, addt- meut between the United Pross associa
tional moetings with representatives of , tions and La Nacion of Buenos Avres.
both side, will be held. said Secretary of the Treasury MeAd ooj
Thero will be no joint meeting of the who, as chairman of the International
mediators and representatives of both commission recently headed a party tnas
i... i .1.. .n,..lA,.A. ,,nil
tentative mediation agreement has
' pfovd b y 10th sides! The pres.-
,(1(llU four brothhoo(lH who met
I1IU rHI'iujrig nun um tin nv, to .......
ith the federal mediators today aro A
B. Ourrctson of the conductors' union,
W. H. Stone, representing the engin
eers, W. O. Lee of the trainaacrrs' un
ion and W. 8. Carter, bead of the fire
men's union.
Members of the federal board of
mediation went into session with the
railroad managers this afternoon for the
second time. It is probable that at the
conclusion of this afternoon's session
arrangements will be made to hold a
second conference with the employes
tomorrow morning.
tel.. knd, nnnli lima wnutil
)e requir0ll t0 reach iom(. settlement,
, , Chambers of the federal board
,na that neither he nor anyone else
,(nfW
aaij.
Five thousand taxioahs are idle , in
London, because so many drivers have
joltted the colors.
BARE
BROUGHT III TOUCH
ED
PRESS
Reduction in Postal and Cable
. Rates and News Service
Does It
LATIN REPUBLICS WILL
UNDERSTAND US BETTER
Argentine Foreign Minister
Says It . Will Cement
Friendship
By Charles P. Stewart.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Buenos Ayres, Aug. 10. North and
South America have been drawa meas
urably closer together by the reduc
tion in postal and cable rates and the
signing of contracts by . the United
Press and the influential newspaper La
Nacion, for the first comprehensive
news service between tho two conti
nents, Dr. Jose Luis Murature, a foreign,
minister of Argentine, and foremost
journalist, declared today.
Not only have the two continents
been linked up more closely as geo
graphical units, Dr. Murature pointed
out, but their peoples will be brought
into closer sympathy.
"A giant stride by North and South
America toward Pan-Americanism,"
was the comment made by the Argen
tine foreign minister on this triple ac
complishment of the last few days.
"It is a matter not merely of ex
pediency, out based on historical and
geographical actualities.
"The date on which, this collective
action will be mobilized in the servit
of common Idoala and Interests will be
determined by the speed with which the
masses grasp the "reasons and advant
ages, which are Inseparable I ren, Pan
American functioning. . '
"No development will so quickly
promote a genuine, sympathetic under
standing as the interchange of news)
through such a medium as the United
Press." 11
Will Know Each Other.
Dr. Murature expressed the belief
that the exchange of news between the
United Press and-La-Nacion in particu
lar will promote among the- masses of
South America a more sympathetie
understanding of the action of the Uni
ted States toward Mexico than oxista
now anywhere except in government
circles
"I personally consider that, the Uni
ted States is Offering most positive evi
dence that its Mexican policy is shaped
by Pan-American ideals," said the
foreign minister. - "The highest respect
constantly shown the sovereignty of
Mexico and tne consideration . demon
strated for her independence is evidonee
oi the sincerity of American pur
pose. . ,
, interested both in
Business ana nunnmrai v.. ---
..M. and postal rate reduction and in
the arrangement for intercnange or
news. Bevcrnl prominent business men
pointed out that such Bn exchange of
news between the two continents a is)
provided by tho United Press-La Nacion
contract, is of necessity the first step in
drawing North and South America into
closer relations.
Administration Pleaaed.
Washington, Aug. 10. The linking of
the masses of North and South America
through the news arrangement entered
into by the United Press and La Nacion,
leading newspaper of South America,
was hailed hero as an event of great im
portance. ' .
"It is with great satisfaction that I
learn of the establishment of this diree.t
news service between Souh America and
..i.ita.l tlm nrincinal ooutn jinwrir."
imntu ...
countries. "It is a mauer ot im
portance to the people of the two con
tinents and is a very practical step to
ward thnt better knowledee and under
st nding of one another for which we
have been striving for many years.
"It should facilitate tne mirenn
Continued on Par Peven.)
ay
THE WEATHER
$
Oregoai Prob
ably fair tonight,
and Friday;
northerly wind.
ffHlS WAR HS)
i
