Dw A~s im
ami the aut asEb
X6 W .. UTtFAL WASHINGTON,. D. 10, 1916NOONE C fS
PRESIDEN'
CALIFRl
REPUBLI
LEAD IN COAST.
STATE CLINCHES
- WILSON VICTORY
With Returns Nearly' Complete, gemocrats
Are'Conceded Pivotal TeraItory-Only
Two States Now Doubtful.
<my the I1ermatias News Service.)
New York, Nov. 9.-The States of California, New Mexico an
North Dakota, swinging ie the Democratic cebm at midight
make certai d re-elect of Wodrow Wilma over Charles E
Ihghes, with at least six electoral votes to spae.
The States of liamesota and New Hampshire remin-ed doubtful
with a strong tread toward the Democratic candidate.
Wilm has certainly carried thity-eme Norther, Sethr am
Western States, with 272 electeral votes. Hughes carried feortee"
Easter. and North.r States and two Western States, with an electora
rote of 243.
CAIFORNIA SETTLES DOURTS.
California, which had wavered for two days between Wilsot
and Hughes. settled all doubt as to the outcome of the eletion a
10 o'clock, when the lead of the President was increased so thai
vith 190 districts itssing his plirality was 3,112.
In New Mexico he 'ok the lead from Hughes, and was 2.634
votes ahead, with 158 districts unreported.
At the same tine North Dakota Eecame sure for Wilson, am
Wilson gains were reported in Minnesota and New HaMpshire.
Returns from two late-reporting counties in West Virginia-Arant an<
Preston-tonight increased the Hughes' total by mo're:than 1.900. giving the
Republican candidate a plurality iqthe State of 3,307 with only 131 pre
cincts to be hieard from.
MAY GET ONLY SEVEN VOTES.
The swing in the two counties to Hughes was the greatest of its kin<
since the count in this State began.
There is a possibility tonight that even if Mr. Hughes carries West Vir.
ginia, as seems assured; he will receive only seven of the eight electora
Votes, owing to the failure of officials in some counties to place the name
:f S. A. Scott, candidate for elector, on their ticket.
When the news of California's decision reached Republican headquar
ters in New York the place was almost instantly deserted. There is still tall
Df making contests, and many lawyers, headed by former Attorney Genera
george W. Wickersham, have been engaged to take all possible legal steps t<
ight for Hughes to the last trench.
So decided, however, were the midnight returns that none of the Re.
3ublican leaders had any confidence that either recounts or recourse to courts
:ould save their candidate.
The result of the election, which was clouded by doubt and conflicting
repcqt after two days. hy upset all precedents in.American politics. Wilsor
has been elected by Republican States-States on which the G. 0. P. leader
:ounted so surely that they took little trouble or expense to make pre-elec
ion fights within their borders.
MIDDLE AND FAR WEST FOR WILSON.
Without New York or Illinois, which declared decisively and immedi
stely for Hughesthe Democrats found enough strength in Ithe Middle anc
extremne West to overcome the great electoral votes of these and many
other populous add important Statqs.
Of the Western State, where 'a Hughes victory was practically con
ceded by Democrats, 4Ingaes was victorious only in Oregon. In the Middle
West Iowa and South Dakota only voted for him.
New England's rock rilibed Republicanism almost cracked under the
strain of the trend toward Wilson.- Republican pluralities of former years
dwindled until they almost disappeared. In the case of New Hampshire
which published the foi
- page of its issue of Sat
-JDVEI
-e s. sta..
WIL SON 1
GIVES I
ECANS WIL
HOW ELECTORAL VOTES
LOOK AT LAST MINUTE
For W ilson............ ............... 272
For Hughes....................:...... 243
Doubtful....................... ...16
Needed to win....'.-................... 266
' imaasta (12 vot.s) and Now Hampohne (4 voes) delbtful.
it will require an official count to decide the claim of the Republicans that
their hold on a solid New England is still unbroken.
The result in New England is a savage blow at the confidence of the
high protectionist that the tariff will be a continuing issue in American
politics.
From the general result it.is clgar that as the men voted in the suffrage
States, so did the women. In Illinois men and women seemed about equally
divided as to preference. The State went to Hughes by a big plurality.
WILSON LOSES IN HOME STATE.
In Kansas, Colorado,. Montana, Washington. Oregon and California, where
women also vote, Wilson was successful, but his plurality was not sufficiently
large to indidate that the women voters supported him as a unit.
One of the unusual, if not unexpected, features of the result was that Mr.
Wilson lost his own State of New Jersey by more than 5o,000, losing his own
town and his own district. The Democratic candidate for Senator from New
Jersey, James A. Martine, went down with the Wilson defeat.
That the vote for President and Vice President was personal and not
partisan is shown by the fact that the Republicans made very considerable
gains in the Congressional voting. With nine-'seats in the House of Repre- 1
sentatives still in doubt, the Repiblicans seem to have wiped out the Demo
cratic majority in that body and to have gained control by at least one vote.
The Senate, where Republican gains have been offset by Republican losses,
will remain Democratic by a safe working majority of perhaps twelve votes.
Prohibition made a decided forward step.
Michigan has voted for State-wide prohibition by 75,000 majority; Ne
briska by 35,00 Montana by 2aoooo and South Dakota by 25,0o0. Idaho has
adopted a prohibition constitutial amendment by a majority of three to one,
'Twenty..four of the forty-ight States havew ow declared for State-wide
prohibition, and more than 6o per cent of the population and 8 per cent of
the area of the country is dry.
Progressive Vote fer Wilis. may yet ave to be reckoned with an
The claim that the Progressives went other
over to Wilson seems to have been con- while two cities with large German
frmed by the vote. American populations. Cincinnati and
It in clear that the Progressive party. Milwaukee, supported Hughes. St Louis.
instea of being absorbed by the Repub
lican party, remains still independent and CONTINUED ON AGE TWO.
Wilson Victor by 200,000
Plurality, Leaders Claim
(By the Internatiemal News Servie.) 000 to 300,000. with an electoral vote
New York. Nov. .-Announcement that of 272 absolutely sure. aid with Mi
President Wilson has been elected by nesota, West Virginia. and New Hamp
both a popular and electoral plurality was shire still to be decided. To say there
made at National Democratic Headquart- w I nsult to the,
era tonight at 11 o'clock. intelligence of the American people.
"There is nothing to add to our
It followed a wild demonstration caused statement previously made. We have
by receipt of a bulletin stating that Wil- claimed the re-election of President
son had carried California. The state- Wilson since early Tuesday evening.
ment follows: We knew we had it then,'and we have
"The President has carried the coun- been fighting especially for the West
try by a popular Plurality of from 200.- 2 a States."
WILSON STILL LEADS WILSON CONGRATULATED
IN NEW MEXICO VOTE BY SECRETARY TUNULTY
(By the Iatermsief"l News erl.) Asbur/ Park. N. J., Nov. 1.-Secretary
Santa Fe. -N. X. Nov. 9.-Return fo Tumulty tonight wirelessed President
40 out of the 68 Precincts In New Me- Wilson aboard the Mayflower of his re
ico give Wilson 1,1111111 to 1251for Hughes election. His message follows:
a. lead of 2.6M for the President, These "~I an here surrounded by the loyal
are revised figures received from county Vomocrats of old Vonmouth, and beg
clerks, but do not Include a report from leave to send you olfi greetings and con
,Roosevelt County. where the clerk reres- gatulations. The cause You have so
ly reported Wilson had carried the coun- nobly represented has at last triumph
ty by 425 ed, and we greet you. Our heans, our
The Clerk Of S1irra, County 'reported thoughts anld our affections go to You.-'
that the returis'of Its pren.cts had been
locked up. f Bavarian Prince -KieW
There is no way of telling what the Berlin, Nov. 9.-Prince Henry of B&
outlying county will rester. Men have vara, a nephew of King 20u0. Is dead.
(Bye sent out on horseback awnd otors
to speed up the returns. .-Returns ad m
480 .s-Atlat. a Trains "Every oouf oft tie Hour to
-Nov. 1ar e1. Camden Station. Street cars direct to
Rosv. Cou ,track 17roundtrip. Saturdaeste r.k.mr.
Adv. -Adv.
2M gamn ?4'2,853 &qZ"4
ly)oted filrsoncrre the frount
tyl b 42 Te5, ~
outlyig couty wil rehWer. Mn hav
E .,
-IIMV
SFI LE
PLANS RECOUNT
IN FOUR STATES
Wickersham to Lead G. 0. P.
Legal Battle.
(my the Iatesntisnal News yVasel.)
New York, Nov. .-Republicans tonight
tegan marshalling their forces for the
Ieat legal battle they will wage for the
Presidency.
George W. Wickerham, attorney gen
tral of the United States In the Taft
3ablnet, was placed In charge of the legal
forces. He has already begun th. col
ection of evidence on which to base con
'ests In States that went to WIlson by
Bawl glralitiie.
Defensive preparations against Demo
atic contests are alao being ade In
Rates which Hughes carril by tar
raw margins.
Mr. Wickersham has alrd sent tele
trams of instructions to Republican &ad
rs and to his old associates in the De
prtment of Justice In all States where
here are likely to be contests
It has already been agreed that the
hughes managers will take steps to
wing about a recount of the votes in
Sifornla, North Dakota, New Hamp
rhire and New Mexios.
At the conclusion of the contepss at
Ihich this program was agreed upon
bairrnan Willoox made this announce
nent:
"No matter who wins, every vote should
)e counted as cast. We shall demand a
'ecount in every State where the result
sas so close that Ignorance or the mis
ake of election ocials might change IL
Resents Praud Charge.
"I am glad to see the Democrats are
0o longer mng charges that the Re
publicans are trying to buy the lactics.
I am sum the Democratic managers now
ippreciate that hay suck ebarsges were
L mistake and shoAN nevrp have been
We shall bring no entest an teen
talities. We shall undoubtedly seek a
recount which will Insure the aeemure
of the count in at least tor tate*-Cal
fornia. North Dakota, New Hampshire,
and New Mexico."
Chainan Willcox and Mr. Wicker
sham during the afternoon conferred with
Mr. Hughes at the Hotel Aster.
After consideration of the matter of
possible necessity for contesting the vote
in several States, Chairman McCormick
saId tonight he thought President WII
eon's re-election would be so conclusive
that such action would not be required.
"The President has won fairly and
squarely," he said. "and I mee no need
mow for contests. Of course, the various
State chairmen and their organizations
have been told to go ahead and take
such action as they deem necessary for
safeguarding the ballots, but no specifte
mrders have been given as to any State.
'We have got to be convinced of crooked
work before we do anything. Every
county in safeguarded by a committee of
lawyers, acting under the direction of
the national committee. In New Hamp
shire these lawyers are already on the
job."
WILLI STILL REFUSES
M0 CONEDE IlS DEFEAT
Republican Chairman Downcast But
Continues to Hope for Change.
(my the Internatlenal News Service.)
New York. Nov. 9.-President Wilson's
re-election was conceded at Republican
headquarters by practicaly every official
but Chairman Willcox.
The death blow to their ambitions came
when news was received that an alleged
transportation of 2.00 votes from Wilson
to Hughes #1 California had been dis
'overed and that the correction gave the
President a plurality of about 3.,i0.
Both Frank H. Hitchcock and George
W. Perkins rushed to the long distance
phone and called ul, State Chairman
Dhester H. Rowell atgSan Francisco. It
took an hour to get him. When Mr.
Ritchcock emerged from the booth he
was crestfallen, and said:
"We have lost California and de have
.o hold it to-elect Mr. Hugham."
"Does thIs mean that you concede the
"e-election of the President?"
"I shall wait a while before admitting
hat. I merely say that we have lost
"salfornla and that we need at least L
tart of her votes to insure the eletclon
af Mr. Hughes."
Mr. Perkins deelined to say' anythIng
rxcept thIs: "It leaks as If the President
would have about 2,10 plurality in Call
ornla, though later returns my change
his. We have carried Minnesta and
qew Mexiog and we tuay' have enough
'rom other Utates to win. We deel know
nore about It toin w, perhaps."
Los Angeles. Cal., Nov. t-Dspgite two
rasfusions of blood in an effert to save
ser life, the cnomis ot Mr's. Mil
aflland Bolsevan. to
lay was criticeL
The 'blood~f Mr. eha "h us
and, and of Miss VI ida med were
liven yesterdan but no M ~y~(has
leen noted.
innia today states tilt rel
a Glermnanys ea os been
tto Berth.
&seat
I '
doCTEL
rICTO]1
PROI
Wise Elected, AdRits
Calfernia G. o. P. Head
(BY the Iatenstiemmi News ervilee.)
San Francisco, Nov. S.-California's
thirteen electoral votes will he cast
for Woodrow Wilson.
This was decided beyond the shadow
of a doultt early tonight when. with
only sixty-five outlying precincts to
be heard from, the tally showed Wil
son with a lead of more than 3,000.
Out of the 6,gM precincts in the State.
the LO, counted gave this vote: Wil
son. 4640: Hughes, 4.35.
At 8:30 *'clock tonifht Chairman
Chares H. Rowell, of the Republican
State Committee, conceded the elec
tion of Wilson.
WILSON CERTAII,
GOES YACHTING1
Leaves on Mayflower for Voy
age Up Hudson.
AsAbury Park. N. J., Nov. .-President
Wilson. convinced of his re-election, left
the siuner White House immediately
after dinner for Sandy Hook, whpre he
went aboard the yacht Mayflower. The
trip from Shadow Lawn to Gandy Hook
was made by motor. The Mayflower will
taks the President and his party to
Rhinecliff. on the Hudson.
Prom Rhinecliff the Presideatwill go by
rail to Williamstown. Mass., to attend the
Christening of his youngest grandchild.
the second child of his daughter. Mrs.
Francis B. Sayre.
President Wilsoa declined to make any
comment, but is absolutely convinced of
re-election. Dr. Cary T. Grayson, the
ite Ho-e physicin AN" today that
Mr. Wilsom hashed the thre-days of
stasf rsemarkably wel. -
Mr. Wilson's departure took place to
night about the tine a big demonstration'
occurred in the executive offices at As
bury Park. Ever since Tuesday at 6
o'clock Secretary Tumulty has been on
duty figuring returns and keeping Mr.
Wilson posted on the progress of the race.
The demonstration tonight occurred when I
It seemed certain that not only California.
but probably Minnesota. would go in the
Wilson column.
After receiving assurances froo his
aides In theexecutive offices this morn
lng, President Wison spent his time mo
tortng and at golf. Mrs. Wilson enjoyed
the sports with him.
The President will remain in Williams
town Friday night. He plans to retarn to
the Mayflower at Rhinecliff, and will set
sail on the Presidential yacht for Wash
ington, where he expects to arrive on
Monday afternoon. If these plans are not
interrupted, the President will return to
the Capital after an absence of two
months and to days.
RESULTIN INEOTA
S11LL IS MDOUBT
Hughes I ad-ng with 123 Precincts to
Be Heard From.
(my the Internations News Servies-)
St. Paul. Nov. 9.-While Charles E.
Hughes is still in the lead in Minnesota
with Wf. there are 1W precincts missing
most of them in the northern part of the
State 9,nd considered favorable to Presi
dent 'ilson. A$ a late hour tonight
the result in the State still is in dopbt.
Earlier in the night it was announced
that only eighty-four precincts remaineo
to be heard from. Checking up of the
tabulation showed that there still are
123 to report.
In addition there are the votes of 2,019
Guardsmen, now on the border, which
cannot he counted until November 13.
These votes are expected to go slightly
in Hughes' favor, though straw votes
have Indicated the contrary.
Minnesota's votes will not be complete
until a late hour tomorrow and possibly
not until the militia vote has been can
vassed next week.
Minnesota has twelve votes In the elec
toral college.
MAN STRUCK BY AUTO
DIE FROM MNJURIS
Cassell "KleIn, 3 years old, ot 150 U~i
.treet northwest, died early thi moras
at Emerecy HsitaI from lajurfess a
oetive when he was run dowa at Seenh
and D ,p0treets Wedassiay aftermoom ty
an automobile drive. by D. 5. P. S8a.
Klein was 3rst thegh te hbe reosived
only a broken leg. Us comiltieh becamm
wwse 'fiulmday ag m.m-man~ mu
vealed he had been hut internay.
Mas PtOmeitty et 181 I. NeW Nm..
ashve UnseesQo 'Qage.i
Concord, N. H.,.Web. . &- ith ern
aM but tw..tr...e m.-.a.h .e She
In New Hamgdia e gase Wughas
a pieratV of 3.- ote steed
N. edsit em thlsibn
his stams
a
9. .
'a
a
ESTS
HOUSE CoNTROL
IN DOUBT WITE
. O. P. LEADING
Democrats Will Have Majority
of 12 in Senate on
Early Returns.
CLARK MAY LOSE RE;WN
Oance Is Conceded Represmitative
Man to Corral Speak..14 iln
the Lower Boda
Democrats will have a ulMrty of
twelve In the United Rtates aesete in
the sixty-ffth Congress, aceording to
the returns from all parts of the coua
try received up to midnight
The colnplexion of the next Senate
wilrbe.
DEMOCRATS. 14.
REPUBLICANS. 42.
Control of the House in ati is
doubt. with the latest returns indicat.
ing that the Repubficans will have ev
very small lead. The margin of twem
ty-seven In the Sixty-fourtb Ceagress
has now narrowed down to not mes
than three.
The figures are: Repubileas. 215;
Democrats. 214; Probstttonist. 1; Pro
tectionist, 1: Independent, 1; Social
st, 1.
Big susrpese li seote..
In the Senate the big surzuin i the
results Com.s theena the deduat et seas
tors L@0tt. of Rhds e . and Do
Pont. ef Delawa e certai se
election by the Republican National Com
mittee. The defeat of Senators Kern and
Taggart. Democrats, was also umexpect
ed. and the poor showing of Represent
alive David J. Lewis, in Maryland, was
a disappointment to the Congressiona!
(Xcmmittee. Late returns made it appear
certain that Senator Chilton. of West
Virginia, Democrat. suffered defeat The
coutest will be taken to the courts and
the Peat will be contested in Congress.
In the House fights, surprises came in
the defeat of Representative Roberts, of
Massachusetts. after twenty years of
-ervice. the defeat' of Representatives
Reilly. Konop. and Burke. in Wisconsin;
Tavenner and Buchanan. in Illinois;
Bailey. 'n Pennsylvania: Cullop and Cline,
In Indiana. and Barchfleld, in Pensyl
vanla.
Clark May le Depened.
Representative Meyer London. Social
,st, from New York. is returned by such
a slender margin that a recount hag been
sought by the Democrats and the election
may be contested.
With the margin so narrow, the candi
dacy of Representative "Sim" Mann. of
lilinois, for Speaker, is liable to bring
about the deposing of Champ CIMrb
Democratic leaders said last might that
the independent votes and the Socialist
ballot in the House probably would be
cat for Speaker Clark and insure his
choice as presiding otceer of the Sety
1th Congres.
The defeat of Senator Kern mans a
new majority leader In the Senate aad
new presiding officer for the Denmocratic
Caucus.
In the House. Representative Roberts is
the ranking Republican member of the
Naval Affairs Cobmmittee. and his defeat
uts Representative Browning in line for 0
the chairmanship of the committee under
Republican control.
Representative Carey. of Wiscnsin, wilT
:nake an effort to become chairman of the
District committee if the G. o. P. *bios
"e Congress. He is from Wisconsin and
will replace Repiecntative Ben johissa.
of Kentucky. the present Demeocraic
ehairman.
ODDS 2 TO 1 01 WIIION.
Ne.PYork. Nov. .-One hundred thea
sand dollars was offered in the lobby of
the Stock Exchange this afternoen at
even money that Hughes had arried
California.
So far as could be learned mly a mialn
mrt of it was covered. Odds on Wa"
mon's re-elelion were quoted at 2 1A I
in the Stock Exchange garriders and at
le to 7 on the eurb.
SOUT DAKTA 0, sU .
New Ybrk, liev. .-Aannemsrmm was
inade today at the headematur et g
Naiona Wm ~Smfsg A--ms
that the hofrage smmiment was cerutmid
in Seuth Da-a. ne i..pe in w..t Tr
ginia ls sik doubtful, It was sMi.
s. rWumaper Ward. the aujsur et
"Rebest Utmee." "U snor," ete, has be
better bosk to her eredit then "Eady
Rese Daghter."
By seebl as ...t with the p -
itshers, The Wasintea gERLD ade
able to offer this bek to sits eIsS
Sdverher who place a daStad
ami tia not less than foty sa
this 9sier durteg the eurmet wek
7!sbeok is an esact dennen a or
sthls t cover et the hs Me
sdd ma g. p.m to ILG. M
is, Ueie with diht artistie
t~id et .the hihest tysfe. ad bem a 4
aeseue, nlyattractiv, plants pawe
with u pgm want and WM itM
to off-a thes isa e,iessdams al
every emilati..n Thee hdska yp
seen sai meing at he sa edium et
