tfEATHER
_a_*r~T nxirr. am> ?*?*? tb
pM
MOl>-*J?TT' **********
1.11 Rerert en r_re 10
-?^Mh
Voi
]\\VI No. 25,562
rr-pffitht laia? i
The Tribune Au'd] -t
Firsf fo Last?the Truth: News ? Editorials - Advertisemerrts
FRIDAY, NOVEMBEB 10, 1916
ffiritonte
CIRCULATIOtf
Over 100,000 Daily
Net Paid. Non-Retumable
? * *
("ivit* ffr'VT ,b **** T',??? n**' *?*****.
irreer C\tj and Hab-kaa
Wilson Re-elected with 2 72 Votes;
California Gives Him 3,000 Plurality
BOLLWEG FOR PEACE UNION
ENDING BRITISH SEA RULE
Accepts Grey's Offer if
League Guarantees
Free Oeean
f ORBID COALITION
FOR MAKING WAR"
Never Proposed to Annex
Belgium or Seize
Freneh Colonies
Berlm. Nov. ?.?Germany il ready
? ecttr a league of peace, but only
?fcndition that it insures the f ree
ionofthe seas from British domina
tjjn.
Char.cellor von Bethmann-Hollweg
tju denned his grovernment's atti?
tude before the Main Committee of
tM Rr.fhsta? to-day. The "policy
?(brute fflice" 4*hich Great Britain
kid c'.ur.t* to throuph the war, tne
.ared, could not be
ttide the biatifl of an efficient inter
aitional peace union.
Repiies to Vit-count Grey
"Germftr.y 1? at a'.l timer- ready to
| rater a ? ur->*-' of peace which will
tfljtrair: the pertuber of p-eace," he
idrki ? a ly.
"die rreati i part of the Chancel
"TrS speech' connituted a reply to
;a? recfn* declarations of Viscount
h Foreigrn SecreUry,,
:' the war must in
hf9ice peace conditions and that
Genr.a-y, because she had forced
ihe ara pa, would not be en
aranteea apainst future
ttacka. Arguing on this basis the
Chancellor entered into a long dis
cussion of the question to prove that
the burr.f:. of responsibility rested
oc Gerrr.ar,y'? foes.
The Chancei'or'a statement regarding
tbe question of a peace league fol
lova:
"If at and after the end of the war
th* flmrld wil or.'.y become fully con
?eiene of the homfying deatruction
af lif* and property, then through the
whole of humanity thtre will ring out
a ery for peaceful arrangements and
atderata-dir.ra which, as far aa it is
within human power, will avoid the
return of such a monatroua cataatro
pta Th-.s c.-y u.ll be ao powerful and
'0 juatif.ed that it muat lead to aome
taault
Llbert> for All Nationa
"Geraar.y will honestly cooperate it
eumination of every endeavor to find
? praetieal aolution and will collab
?r*te for ita pogaible realization. Thia
?N the more if the war, aa we expect
aad trust, ahall create politieal con?
ditions that do full juatice to the free
dmlopment of all nationa, of amall as
"?ll aa great nationa.
"Then the principle of justice and
fre* deve ?;???? t, not only on the
C*otinent but also on the seas, muat
te made vralid. 'I his. to be sure, Lord
Grey d:d not mention."
The 'hancellor pointed out that
Viacour.t Urey's ideas in regard to in?
ternational guarantees of peace seemed
te poeseaa peculiar character, in that
?flflfl took into consideration only
Britiah want*. Neutrals, which during
?*** *rar had to accept in ailence Brit
?aa dorrr.ation of the aeas, were to
f?m a union after the w?r when, Eng
?aad hope?, (.he will have conquered ;
Gennany in order to guarantee that :
?*? hritish plans will prevail under the .,
*?? conditions
T&* < haaeellor said it waa known
?a reliable authority that in 1915
Great Britain and France promised to
?oaiia dictatorial domination of Con
"?"it.nopie, the Boaporua and th* j
??atflhoreof the Dardanellea. with the
*'?t?rland, and that Aaia Minor ahoal,*
?* dinded iimone the Kntente Powers.
Plana Kept Re<ret
The?? plana, he continued. probably
??re of interest for neutrals, who were
*xp*cted to guarantee thia order of
?*'"?g*. The Bntiah government, he
?""?""?arted, had kept allent in regard tv>
aaaaa plana in ap.te of queatlona aak*d
18 Parliament
"The?* ar* th* plana of our enemiaa
J""r anne-tation, to whieh muet be ad
*?d Alaaeo tn4 Lorralne; whil* I have I
_**"*?? deaignated the annexation of |
?"Mfiuni aa our intention when I apoke ;
*?*"?' th* flima of the war
~h? firat eondition for the evolu- ,
*? of International relationi by way
*? arbitration and peaceful compromiie
n copflicting interenta ought to bf
al no mor* aggreaaive coalitioni be
M_Jn9 hleterr of international rela
??aa before th* w*r atead* cl*ar b*
"*?* th* eyea of ?U tha world. What
ELECTION WATCHED
IN VERDUN TRENCHES
Fort Vaux. on ihr. Verdun
Front, No*. 8 (via Paris).?
News of ihe election in the
Lnited States was communi
cated by wireless telegraph to
a correspondent in Fort Vaux
to-day, and created intense
interest amid the activitie? of
defence preparations, and
under a severe German bom
bardment.
LONGS FOR PEACE,
ASQUITH ASSERTS
But Sacrifices of War Must
NotBe Made in Vain,
He Says
Lor.don, Nov. 9. Nobody has preater
reason to desire peace than Britain, but
she desires it only on one condition- -
that the sacrifices of the war shall not
have been made in vain.
That statement was made by Premier
Asquith to-night at the banquet of the
new Lord Mayor of London, Sir Will?
iam Henry Dunn, given at the Guildhell
to-nif-ht and atten_*_ by Cabinet min
isters, W_lter Hines Page, the Ameri?
ean Ambassador, and men prominent in
the military and naval world, among
them Lord Fisher. chairman of the In
ventlon Board; Arthur J. Balfour, First
Lord of the Admiralty, and Sir William
R. Robertson, chief of the Imperial
Staff at Army Headquarters.
Alluding to what he termed the prop
aganda conducted in Russia to the ef?
fect that Great Britain'a only deaire
to prolong the war and prevent any
sort of peace waa because she was
making huge profits by explolting her
Allies unscrupulously, the Premier
aaid:
Demanda Security for Weait
"For us," aaid the Premier, "who
know what terrible aacrifices we are
paying in precious live**, in the unceas
ing, pitiless drain upon our rerervoir
of potential promise and vitality? who
have greater reason than we to long
and pray for peace? Peace, yes, but
on one condition only?that the war,
with us vast waste, its sacrifices, its
untold sufferings, ita glorioua ar.d un
dyir.g example of courage and unself
ishness. ahall not have been in vain.
"There can be no question of a sep?
arate peace, and peace, when it comes,
be it soon or late -and I will not dis
truise from you for a moment my con?
viction that the struggle will tax all
our resources and our whole stock of
patience and resolve?the peace must
be such as will build upon sure and
stable foundations the security of the
weak. the hberties of Kurope and a
free future for the world."
A feature of the speeches was the
Premier's warm tribute of admiration
on Kumania's stand and the expression
of the opinion that, although the attack
on Rumaria had not yet been defeated,
it had been succes.sfully stayed.
De-niej* Trade War on Neutrala
Premier Asquith denounced as child
ish tict;on the (ierman suggestion that
the Knterte Allies sought to build up
an impenetrab'e wall apamst neutral
trade. Thia eould only mean, he added,
that the Allies were bent on economic
auuide. ,
Mr. Aaquith said it ought to be un
necessarv to afflrm that when the time
comes for peace nothin* eould be more
eksential for the Kntente Allies from
tbe standpoint of simple self-interest
than to establish and maintain the best
industrial and financial relations with
neutrals. .
Alluding to the different methods or
propaganda which he said were em
ploved at different places with a view to
dividing the Alliea and influencing opin?
ion for a aeparate peace, Mr. Asquith
aaid:
?*I deaire to declare without heaita
tion or reserve that the Allies are fight
<'?ntln-*_ an p__e 4. eolumn 4
TWO STATES DEFEAT
SUFFRAGE AMENDMENT
West Virginia Sure Against,
South Dakota Incomplete
ftouth Dakota and Weat Virginia, the
two atatea where auffrage amendments
were offered to the voters, appear to
hava defeated tha propoaltion. In
West Virginia there la no doubt of the
defeat With 843 -f the 1,713 pre?
cincts in, there are 72,473 votes against
the ametidment and only 3*,887 for it_
ln the western sUt#| the conteat ia
cloaer, but there are only 200 precineta
to be heard from. The vote Bgainat the
amendment was 26,-48 an<T for -t.
22,934._
-_r*v ?
WILSON TOLD
OF ELECTION
BY WIRELESS
Congratulations Sent
by Tumulty Reach
Him on Mayflower
HUGHES LEARNS
OF HIS DEFEAT
Returns from Theatre to
Hear of Loss of
California
President Wilson was ateaming up
New York Bay in the yaeht Mayflower
when he received confirmation of his re?
election by wireless last night. It
reached him in the form of a congrat- j
ulatory telegram from his secretary,!
Joseph P. Tumulty, who had remained
at Long Branch while the President j
travelled on the Mayflower toward ,
Rhinebeck, where he is to take a train I
this morning for Williamstown, Mass.
Mr. Tumulty had told the President
he would not congratulate him until
tt was definitely known that he was
elected. The secretary therefore aent
this wireless message:
"I am here surrounded by the loyal ;
Democrats of old Monmouth, and beg [
leave to aend you our grteting aad j
congratulationa. The cause you have .
po nobly represented has at last tri- |
umphed, and we greet you. Our heart-,
our thoughta and our affectiona go to
you."
Mr. Wilson did not reply to the mes?
sage, and Mr. Tumulty thought it un
likely that the President would make
any statement.
Hughea Heara of Defeat
Far different were the circumsUncea
under which Charles E. Hughes learned
definitely that he was defeated. He
had just returned to the Hotel Astor
from a night at the theatre, where
"Nothing but the Truth" had served to
amuse him, when reporters aent in word
to him that his California chairman
had abandoned all hope.
Only a few minutes before Mr.
Hughea had been cheered by several
hundred theatregoers in Eroadway,
who had recognized him and his wife.
Fresh from thia little demonstration
he received, aoon after hia arrival at
the hotel the news from California. ,
He was already in his suite of rooms
and he sent out word by his secretary,
Lawrence. Green, that he had no corn- j
ment to make.
One of the newspaper men ques
tioned Mr. Hughes, jr.. regarding a
rumor that was circulated throuchout
the hotel to the effect that Mr. Hughe*
would nail on the steamship .St. Louis |
on .Saturday for London.
Deniee Plan for Trip
Mr. Hughes entered the suite and
after consulting his father returned to
the newspapermen amiling with the in?
formation that the story was denied.
Mr. Green said the President's vic?
tory would cause a change in Mr.
Hughes's plans. Instead of going to
Sulphur Springs, as he had intended if
elected, Mr. Hughes will go directly
to hia home in Washington.
President Wilson left Long Branch
last night on the Mayflower, on his ,
wav to Williamstown to act as god
father for Eleanor Axson Sayre, the
youngest child of Mrs. Francia B.
Sayre, his daughter. He will leave
(onllnued on p_?e t, rolumn 7
MONTANA ELECTS
WOMAN TO CONGRESS
-?.
Miss Rankin, Once Se.tlement
Worker Here, Victor
[Br T*lfff?fh tn Th* Trll.ui.f 1
Helena, MonU. Nov. 9.- Latest avail
able returns show that Miss Jeannette
Rankin (Republican) is elected to Con?
gress by between 3,600 and 4.000 votes.
Latest reporta give her 67,894 and
Herry Mitchell 63,898, with six counties
still to be heard from. While Demo?
cratic leadera refuaed to concede her
election, they admitted that their can?
didate probably eould not overcome her
present lead.
Miss Bankin waa born on a ranch
rear Missoula, the daughter of John
Rankin, a pioneer lumberman. She waa
graduate I from the University of Mon?
tana and subeequently from the New
York School of Philanthropy. She
took np aettlement work in New York.
_nd later in San Francisco and Chicago.
She became intereated in auffrage
dnring the Wa*hington and California
campaigns. Later ahe waa field aecre?
tary of the National Suffrage Associa?
tion, and waa a lobbieat for suffrage in
the New York Legialature. She alao
had charge of auffrage bil Ira in Dela?
ware, Florida, North Dakota and New
Uampshire.
Tho other Congreeeional repreaenta
tive from Montana will be John M.
Evana (Demoerat).
a
GBEAT BIAI W-UWO WAT__~?l.e
th? aaa. at figlaaa m*m**** fcettlaa.?
2_M
REPUBLICANS
URGE RECOUNT
OF CLOSE VOTE
Old Leaders of Party
Confer Here Over
Election Crisis
OPPOSE CONTEST
ON TECHNICALITY
Weeks, Crane, Hillis and
Warrenin Meeting at
Manhattan
While Chairman William R. Willcox
and other membera of the Republican
national campaign committee wore
buay placing the rosiest interpretations
upon the returna from the doubtful
states, as received at Republican na?
tional headquarters, a amall but seri
cua coterie of the Republican war
horses of other campaigns gathcred at
the Hotel .Manhattan yesterday after?
noon, and discussed the poasibilitiea of
a desperate situation.
Among those present were Senator
John W. Weeks, of IMassachusetts; ex
Senator Murray Crane, of the same
atate; Charles D. Hillea, former chair?
man of the Republican National Com?
mittee; Charlea B. Warreja, Republi?
can National comraitteeman from
Michigan, and William Barnes. Other
leadera of potent influence in the past
came and went during the course of
the conference.
Every one of the old timers agreed
that a careful recount in the close
states would be advisable. Quietly, it
was understood, some of them applied
their hammers to certain phaaes of the
present Republican campaign. They
were not jubilant over the outlook. The
returns from California were disap
pointing.
Reeult Hingea on Two States
Senator Weeks admitted at one stage I
of the proceedings that the only hope'
of Republican Buccess seemed to lie in :
the result in N'ew Hampshire and North
Dakota. Senator Weeks talked with
Senator Port-r J. McCumber, of North
Dakota, over the long-distance tele?
phone. He said that Senator McCumber
told him the vote there appeared to he
about even. The conferrees felt pretty
sure of Minnesota and New Mexico.
The Republicans, according to Sena?
tor Weeks, had already asked for a re
mmat in New Hampshire. The late re?
turna last night from that state placed
Hughes in the lead by 131 votes, but
despite that fact attorneys were in
structed by the Republican leaders to
go through the state and get certified
copies of the vote from the clerka in
each county, to have a proper record
ahould anything happen to the ballot
boxes.
Chairman Willcox, Herbert Parsona,
Frank H. Hitchcock, George W. Perkins
and other membera of the campaign
committee later conferred at different
timea with the men who were at the
Hotel Manhattan, with the exception of
Mr. Barnes. Barnes merely happened ,
in, it was said. and made no claim to a
seat in the national council. The possi?
bility of contests and recounts occupied
? good deal of the general discuasion '
among all hands.
No < ontent on Terhnicalitle*
One thing had been decided positive
ly, it was aaid, that the Republicans
would not contest the election on tech
nicalities if Wilson finally won. All
they would insiit upon would be a care?
ful and proper recount of the vote in
the cloae states, which was bound to
be asked by the defeated side in th*
states. The Republicans would be;
Continued on pafe !t. eolurnn I
ELECTORAL VOTE
WILSON HUGHES
Alabama. 121 Connecticut. 7
AiiBona . 3 npia,v?rp . 3
Arkansas. 9 ' "elaware .
California . 13: Illinois . ?
I *ok>rado. 8 Indiana. lb
Florida . 0 Iowa. ?***
Gfor_rii. 14 Maine. 6
I(lah'> . 4 Missaohusetts . 18
Kansas. 10 J assacnuseus.
Kcntucky. 13 tochigan. JJ
Louisiana. 10 New Jersey. M
Maryland. 3 New Vork. 45
Mississippi. 10 Qregon . 6
JE2S!?. 'i Pennsvlvania. 38
Montana . -1
Nebraska
Rhode Island. 5
Nevada ............... 3 South Dakota.,. 5
New Mexico. 3. Vermont. 4
Noii h ( arolina. 12 West Virginia. 8
North Dakota. 6 Wisconsin. 13
Ohio .241 _
Oklahoma . 10, Tt, .213
South (arolina. P
Tennessee.<. 12 -
Texas . 20
Utah . 4 DOUBTFUL
Virginia . 12
Washington. 7
Minnesota . 12
Wyoming . 3 New Hampshire. 4
Total .272 Total . 16
Necessary'to choice.26(>
Republicans Concede
California to Wilson
President Leads by 3,131, with 36 Missing|
Precincts Likely to Increase Margin?
Electoral Vote May Split
(?>? Teleirraph toTti* Tribune 1 ,
San Francisco, N'ov. 9.?Republican
prospects of carrying California wert
to smaflh thia afternoon after the
registrars of voters in Los Angeles
and San Francisco revised their earlier
figures and left Wilson with a lead of
500 in the state.
The missing precincts at that time
were from mountain and Northern
California districts, which were con?
ceded to be for the President. Re?
publican stock went up momentarily
when the cut of Wilson's plurality frorn
4,600 to 6"'1 was announced, but it
w.-nt down to the hopeless stage when
Siskiyou County reported with a plur?
ality of more than 1,000 for Wilson
and Sierra followed with 300 more.
This gave the President a safe lead
of about 'J/.
Repuhlicana Lose Hope
At 8:L*3 o'clock to-night Chester H.
Rowell, Republican Btate chairman,
conceded the state to Wilson. Rowe'.l
gave up hope when returns from 5,834
precincts out of 5,870 gave Wilson
466,t"'*9; Hugh.*s. 462,538.
This gave Wilson a lead of 3.131
aritfl only thirty-six scattered
precincts to be heard from.
"The Los Angeles Times," whieh sup- '
iorted Hughes, conceded California to ;
ilson at 9:-5 p. m.
Small corrections by county clerks
throughout the state and scattering
precincts that were alow in sending
la their returns kept the tide drifting |
in the Wilson direction until all doubt j
that the state had east its electoral
vote for him practically had vanished.
Thfl few precincts yet to report are
so small that they could not change
the result. They are known, however,
to lean toward Wilsor- and, if any?
thing, will increase his iead.
B
Because of the closeness of the con?
test in California it was aaid this after?
noon by Secretary of State Frank C.
Jordan that there was likely to be a
split in the electoral vote of the atate.
Jordan ia ao aure that the winning
side will not get all thirteen electora
that he haa decided to ask both parties
to delegate represental vea to be pres?
ent when the official count is made.
Thi* count probably will start next
Thursday after the semi-official can
vaas of votes has been made by the
county boards ot supervisora.
Haa Split Fonr Tlmea
California's electoral vote has iplit
four times in the state's hiatory, the
laat time being in 1912, when Rooaevelt
got 11 and Wilson won 2.
Registrar Harry Zemansky, of San
Francisco County, expressed doubt that
the electoral vote would be split. He
based his position on the fact that in I
San Francisco there was little aplittlng.
Late to-day, evidently acting on in
structions from Washington, the United
States Marshal awore in a large number;
of special deputies to watch the ballot!
boxes. A squad of theae waa aent to !
Alameda County, where there was aj
report that some attempt had been
made to tamper with the ballots.
This followed an announcement that
revised figures from there had i
creased Hughea'a plurality. Alameda
is normally a strong Republican county.
The concession of the Btate to Wil?
son on the fat of the returns altered
in no way the determination of both
parties to keep a sharp watch on the
semi-otlcial count by county clerks
and the final official count by the Sec?
retary- of State. With a plurality of
less than 3,000 in more than 900.000
votes, a difference of one vote in each
precinct might change the whole re?
sult.
Minnesota Militia's Votes
May Turn Doubtful State
[Br T_waph to The TtU>_t_)
St. Pau\ Nov. 9?How Minnesota'*?
vote will be c*Bt in the Electoral Col?
lege probably will not be determined
until next week, when the 2,000 votea
of her National ("u-rdsmen on the
border, together with the home votes,
are counted officially.
The Hughea lead to-night, with only
Emerson Motors Co.
iiver wonder what happens to the hard-earned
greenbacks that are swapped for stock subscriptions?
Ever go back of the scenes and get a real close-up of a
clever promoter putting other people's money through
the paces? No?
Then read The Tribune's startling expose of one of
the most remarkable promotion schemes ever floated?
one that is now under full headway in New York and
other big eities. The story is replete with facts and
figures and it is not spoiled by sparing names. It's a
big story told in a big way.
Read it in this Sunday's Tribune. The edition will
sell out early.
(The ^uniaxj (Tribune
Firat to Loat?tha Truth :
Nawt?Eottoriott?Adoartia.menta
Uambar ot Ihe Audlt Bur?_u of (.':.*. ulatlona
eighty-five precincts missing, ia ex
actiy 1.034 votes. It is entirely pos
aible that the guardsmen'* vote will
turn the tide to WiUon, but Repub?
lican leaders believe it will only aerve
to make the Hughes vietory more de
cisive.
When returns had been received
from 2.940 precincts out of 3.024 in the
state. Mr. Hughes had a plurality of
''?"2, the count standing: Wilson, 175,
558; Hughea, 176,230. Except for Prea
idenr. Minnesota delivered its cus
tomary big Republican majority, aa
shown in the pluralitiea of Governor
"lurnqulst and Frank B. Kellogg. can?
didate for the United Statea Senate.
Republicana alao were uniformly suc
ceasful on the rest of the atat* ticket.
Hughee's lead ln the state waa
threatened aeveral timea to-day by re?
turns from th* northern part of the
state, but alwaya some other lection
added the neceaaary votea to the Re-1
publican candidate'* column to keep |
him ahead.
The closeneaa of the vote attracted |
unuaual intereat throughout th* atate, |
which normally haa queationed only i
the size of th* plurality of the Repub-1
lican candidates. Bulletin boarda In !
all tbe larger cities attracted throng* J
all day.
Several prominent politiciana ex-]
pressed the belief that the vote caat
by the Minnesota Guardsmen at th* I
Mexican border would be a deciding I
factor in the Presidential conteat. The i
commiaeionera who took the border
vote Tueaday telegraphed th* Secre?
tary of Sute to-day that 2,138 guarda
men had voted.
Th* itate eanraaaing board la to
meet next I"u*?qay to check th* tabu
|
mOgmgt %.
HUGHES NOW HAS 243,
16 REMAININGIN DOUBT
Republican Leaders RefusetoCon
cede Defeat Until They Have
Received Official Returns
CONTESTS ARE EXPECTED
IN AT LEAST FOUR STATES
Democrats Have 215 Seats in House and the
Republicans 211?Majority in
Senate Is 12
Woodrow Wilson has been reelected.
California, New Mexico and North Dakota drifted Into the
Democratic electoral column last night and dispelled the un
certainty that clouded the result of Tuesday's election for
forty-eight hours.
These three states gave the President a total of 272 elec?
toral votes. Charles E. Hughes seemed assured of 243 votes.
Minnesota and New Hampshire remained in the doubtful
list early this morning, but they probably will be counted for
Hughes, bringing his electoral vote up to 259, seven short of
the number necessary for election.
There are possibilities of a split electoral vote in five states,
California, Minnesota, Washington, West Virginia and New
Hampshire. In California, Minnesota and New Hampshire be?
cause the vote is close ballot errors may affect some men.
In West Virginia a Republican elector resigned before election,
and in New Hampshire a Democratic elector died. These two,
however, would off set each other.
BOTH HOUSES OF CONGRESS DEMOCRATIC
President Wilson is likely to have a Democratic Con?
gress, the latest reports show. At 3 o'clock this morning the
returns indicated that the House would be made up of 215
Democrats, 211 Republicans, 2 Progressives, 1 Independent
and 1 Socialist, with four districts unreported.
In the Senate the reports showed 54 Democrats, 42 Re?
publicans.
This representa a plurality of four for the Democrats in
the House, with four districts still unreported, and four seats
held by Progressives and other independents. The Senate ma?
jority for the Democrats is 12.
Mr. Wilson is the first Democratic President since Andrew
Jackson to be elected to two successive terms. Cleveland waa
elected a second time, but only after an interval of four years.
Jackson, however, was elected in 1828 and re-elected in 1832.
The estimated popular plurality of the President is 300,000
votes, the smallest Presidential plurality since Cleveland ran in
1888.' When Wilson ran against Theodore Roosevelt and Will?
iam Howard Taft four years ago he waa a minority President,
but his popular plurality was a little more than 2,000,000 votes.
REPUBLICANS PLAN TO DEMAND RECOUNT
Republican managers refused to concede the Preaident'a
reelection. It is certain that the result as it stands on the
basis of the above estimates will be contested bitterly.
Recounts will be demanded in perhaps four states, includ?
ing California, with 13 electoral votes; North Dakota, 5; New
Hampshire, 4; New .Mexico, 3.
The results in all these states undoubtedly will be close
when all the returns are tabulated, but this is the situation
that the Republican campaign managers face:
California will give Wilson a plurality estimated at a few
votes less than 3,000. In North DakoU he will have a lead over
Hughes of about 1,500. In New Mexico he is leading at a ratio
which will net him a plurality of about 3,400 votes. On the
other hand Hughes is leading in Minnesota by a scant 700
votes, with 84 districts out of 3.024 missing. In New Hamp?
shire his advantage has been cut to seven votea, the tabulation
being based on official returns, except in twenty-ftve out of 204
districts,
CALIFORNIA VOTE MAY BE SPLIT
There is a strong probability that the electoral vote of Cali?
fornia may be split?it was in 1912, and it has that tendency?
LTid that Hughes may get a few of the thirteen votes. But in
the face of the latest returns from North Dakota, New Mexico
and New Hampshire and considering the fact that the race in
both New Hampshire and Minnesota is so close that their elec?
toral votes may be split, Hughes has a decidedly small chance
of securing enough electoral votes by contest to be elected.
Even if Hughes retains Minneaota and New Hampahirt
and wins back New Mexico he will still lack four more votea
of the necessary 266. He may be helped by a split in California,
but with Wilson running ahead by 3,000 votea it ia considerod
unlikely that he would get enough to bring his total up to th*.
figure.
Chester Rowell, Republican atate chairman of California,
conceded the atate to the Preaident ahortly after U o'clock Laat
night, Thei*iwm_____i__?*-^
