k
. i . v
"
u.
i
NIGHT
EXTRA
'" It I f . A N.C I -Air Ol'T?'I'iN
- ' STRAt.
jV' t
a
'A vtW W'f
.y
ituenmg
"V .V - A
linger
NIGHT
EXTRA
Vol. in.-yo. so
iUTONS DEFEAT
RUSSIAN FORCES
0NTHESTOKH0D
tpetrogiiad Admtis Austro-
German vuamv .n-n.
II Seven Assaults
f&AR'S FORCES RETIRE
db' Claims Capture of 49 Offi
cers and 3380 Men at
Skrobova
. h
BfeERUN. Nov. 10. An Important Ger-
Ei . . - . T?nlnnt In tha re-
fata victory ov' " - --- ;
111. f a Skrobova was announced by the
ir.r Offlce this afternoon.
ft ittaeVing on a front of two and a half
' afitfi reglmeni 01 mo ".." . ..-....-Iinr
troops under denerat von Woyna
riw the Muscovites DacK Deyono, mo
rnn. brook, inflicting heavy losses on
atM retreating opponent. ,
h" Forty-nine officers and 8,380 men were
Bitten prisoners and much booty was cap.
SWta.
FErROartAD, Nov. 10. A defeat of tha
Pe!ns at the hands of the Auatro-der-
ma irmes In Volhynla was admitted by
ItfecTVar Office this afternoon. Alter seven
Sferloas but aln assaults, the statement
ImM, the Teutons succeeded In forcing back
Russian forces battling on the Klver
jfekhod.
iTltANTIC ENGAGEMENT ON
IN TRANSYLVANIA ALPS,
BUfJlIAItEST ANNOUNCES
BUCHAItEST, Nov. 10.
Hesvy flhtlnc la In progress at numerous
fjetets In the Transylvanlan Alps. In the
JFrtloYa Valley a big engagement Is going
Kgi, the Rumanian War Off Ico announced to-
fltjr. The Austro-Qermans aro attacking
tM rllhl wing of the Itusso-Rumanlana,
k tit sector of Dragoslavele artillery duels
Etrt raging. A monitor "and two patrol
ti tried to approach the Ramadan
EWMn at Qlurgevo, but were driven off
lf Jtssanlan artillery.
Russians engage teuton
ALLIES TWO MILES FR03L
CERNAVODA BRIDGEHEAD
FETROQRAD, Nor. 10,
fSetslan forces, mounted and foot, are
fed with the enemy Jwo miles west of
tTDda, the War Office announced to
kThe victor win Gbipbssessionof the
head, which is of great strategic
nee. .
iter sharp fighting the Itusslans occu-
4,Dnnarea.y, two miles fnm Cernavodo,
' topic a number of prisoners.
IX3NDON, Nov. 10.
; Trrlflo efforts are .being made by the
(-Rumanian forces In Dobrudja to re-
Cenilmied on Pace Four, Column One
,FIRST "FREAK" BET PAID
llwaton, Who Voted for Hughes, Es
corts Reed Around Franklin
Square in Wheelbarrow
".' 'ar"8 crowd of spectators today wit-
i the paying of an election bet, when
m need, foreman of the Philadelphia
tv Machine Company", 624 Itace Btreet,
I wheeled around Franklin Square In a
aelbarrow by Mark Houston, one of his
The two men have been very eager In
1 championship of the Democratic and
vbllcan candidates or TreBldent
ornout the campaign, and one of their
nents culminated in making the above
.Houtton lest, and. arrayed In a high silk
no. earrylng the sign, "I voted for
," around his neck, the forfeit was
11 at noon today. He was followed bv
Wtlre force of the machine ahon whn
a him mercilessly as ho proceeded
i uw square. ,
nniiADELPItlA, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 191 G
Cormoni. 101(1, m thr ftujJ.iMts Cownnt.
BBSs
sBH NL ..jimm
m,-. u ,. .a . -... frc , ....
SAYS BULL MOOSE DID IT
John M. Parker, candidate for the
vico presidency on the Progressive
ticket, declares that the Progressive
voto was responsible for Woodrow
Wilson's re-election.
POLITICIANS' FEUD
MAY BE BARED BY
INSURANCE PROBE
Pension Mutual Company
Mix-up Likely to Air
Old Scandali
WORKERS' MONEY TIED UP
Bv a Staff Corrtspontent .
PITTSDUItOH. Pa., Nov. 10. Interesting
details of tha bitter political feud existing
between the Brumbaugh-Smlth-Vare faction
and the Penrose wing of the Republican or
ganization of Pennsylvania may become
publlo In the present Investigation of tho
Pension Mutual Life Insurance Company
of this city.
Impartial observers of the many tribula
tions of the Pension Mutual Life Insurance
Company say that the application for a re
celver for tho, company, whose total deficits
amount to $1,098,423.60, merely means that
the first round has been, fought. They re
fer to the political atmosphere that sur
rounded the Tnuch-tangled affairs of the
company, whose main offices are over a
small poolroom and barber shop.
, .Affidavits and, certain letters, which,- If,
made-publlo, would make Interesting read
Ing, and which deal with so-called political
schemers, exist. Some of the persons men
tioned In these documents once were de
tailed In the Insurance Department. Others
who aro mentioned are former State office
holders. ,
Of course, these documents may never
be taken from a certain desk In a certain
office for the purpose of making them pub
lic But these letters and affidavits are
considered by some persons who were di
rectly responsible to the stockholders and
policyholders of the company as being one
of their Instruments through which they
hope to prove that faotlonal political rows
extending between, Philadelphia and liar
rlsburg at certain periods figure In the
present probav
Though there la conclusive proof In ex
istence that the Pension Mutual Life In
surance Company erred In obeying the In
surance laws of Pennsylvania as far back
as 1318, when the Insurance Department
was In charge of Charles Johnson, of Phila
delphia, this Is the first time that real dras
tic action has been taken against the com
pany. Johnson was nppolnted by ex
Governor Tener. He had the Indorsement
of United States Senator Penrose.
During the regime of Johnson as head
of the Insurance Department It la a matter
of record that frequently he found occasion
to point out to officials of the Pension
Mutual Life Insurance Company that they
weren't living up to the law. Once the
company almost went Into the hands of a
PKIOE ONE CENT '
. ... .
RIVAL LAWYERS
FOR COMMUTERS
IN NEW ATTACKS
Abbot and Others in Letter
Deny Edward B. Martin's
Authority
ONE SIDE COMPROMISES
Accepts Part of Penny's Offer,
While Other Sys It Will
Never Satisfy
The Publjp Sen Ice Commission was noti
fied today on behalf of the United Business
Men's Association and the Cummutcra' As
sociation that the Pennsyhsnla llallroad's
proposition In the commutation faro ques
tion was rejected.
Further, tho commission was Informed
that rejection of the Philadelphia and Read
ing Railway's proposal by ndward B.
Martin, on behalf of the United Business
Men's Association, was without authority.
At the same time that this action was
being taken at a meeting of the commuters'
lawyers In tho ofllco of Udwln M. Abbott
today, Mr. Martin was sending another let
ter to the commlesloners, In which he set
forth that Mr. Abbott no longer represented
the United Business Men's Association.
The broach between the attorneys Is
widened In consequence of these two com
munications. ABBOTT LETTEIt
The letter sent to the commissioners over
the signatures of William T. Cooper, Mat
thew Randall, Raymond ntcalrn. Randolph
TV. Chllds and Edwin M. Abbott follows:
"In the matter of the controversy between
the United Business Men's Association and
Commuters' Association versus Pennsylva
nia Railroad ot at, wo would state that wo
havo this day declined to accept the Penn
sylvania Railroad Company's proposition
as submitted, owing to the fact that they
have Included In their proposal a minimum
charge ot JC for a fifty-trip ticket for all
stations within approximately the seven
mile rone. The stations for which they
have charged tho minimum fare are set
forth In their schedule.
"Under former rnllngs of your commis
sion a maximum of one and one-halt cents
per mile was ordered. This maximum, we
take it, cannot be exceeded for any dis
tance beyond the xone In which the mini
mum rato has been proposed. We are wilt
ing to agree that those schedules shall be
accepted on behalf ot our clients.
"We are noi.'satlsfied with tho settlement
.with regard, to 'pur-proposal for the- es
tablishment of 44-trlp tickets.' but we would
state that wo have acceded to your ad
vice to all of the parties at Interest to
adjust their differences If It were possible,
and we feel that as this litigation has been
prolonged for a period of nearly two years
and as the railroads have' made substantial
concessions to their patrons, we are Justified
In asking your body to Issue an order con
firming the schedules as filed by the Penn
sylvania Railroad beyond tho territorial
limit of seven miles, within which zone tha
Pennsylvania Railroad has proposed a mini
mum rate, and refuse to confirm the mini
mum rato within that territory.
FOR CENT AND HALF
"We respectfully ask the commission to
Insist upon the orders heretofore Issued
by you and that within a seven-mile zone
the maximum of one and one-half cents
per mile be enforced.
"Wa are Informed that Edward B. Mar
tin, Esq , heretoforo associated with us as
counsel for the complainant, has notified
your commission that the adjustment
agreed upon yesterday with the Philadel
phia and Reading Railway Company
would not be acquiesced In by him.
"Wa desire to call the Commission's at
tention to the fact that Mr. Martin Is not
a commuter, that he resides at S009 Co
lumbla avenue In tho city ot Philadelphia;
that the United Business Men's Associa
tion, of which organization he Is chairman
of the transportation committee, has not
instructed him to take the action which
Continued en Pjute Etsht, Column Two
Continued on I"f Ellht. Column One
LF OF UNION NOW
DRY, FIGURES SHOW
r SMes Added to Antiboozo
Column Partial Victories'
in Three
! TOItlf. Kn in n. TT-ll.,.
1 Meadlly growing "dry." Election
ioaay indicate that four States
. Nebraska, Montana, and South
"-have Joined it nni-t.,in i..mi.
jsl In two others Utah and Florida
"TT" or legislators pledged tcTprohlbJ.
W been elected. In New York Gov
Whitman will ,. .i..j . ,. ,
irtii7l!Blent durlp tn. campaign that
L, '" " "S"-" legislation permitting
York rlul- - ....
-- -... vo vqm on the liquor
M mL? t?t tlui definitely listed as
aTLtSL,?.1, there '"111 be twenty-four
ntMia7i- " "! ? of Intoxleants or
llBakJ VtT by .,oeM Pton. New Yojk
IWw!Iu!25,rfaCft L,ne Sclwclul
WW -SuT ,?. fi?la transit Com.
' iVt.h wlwyurfac Jlnea
u22U; between 1M andv: to
tha Lrr"" or construction work
Vtteau.1 , i treet subway. The
lirhMlh,,lr5t tomorrow morning.
( tha I'liL .T -roi aireei,
atu7 X1 """"Juniper MHiL
ft Mm '-" m m- mil
IF?
J'J "!S
COLONEL DIDN'T DRIVE
BULL MOOSE TO HUGHES
Appeals for Votes Changed
Many to Wilson, Study of
RetUrrtB Slows
Roosevelt Is Silent
' on Election Result
OYSTER BAY, Nov. 10.
COL. THEODORE ROOSEVELT'S
solo comment today on 'the re
election of President Wilson Was:
"Excuso me, I have nothing to
say."
NEW YORK. Nov. 10 As far as can be
gathered from tha returns tho predicted
Progressive defection to President Wilson
after Colonel Roosevelt's attempt to drive
them back Jnto the Republican ranks has
been verified by the results.
tn every wtern State whjch went for
Wilson there are enough Progressives to
haye swung the electoral vote-tlie other
way had they supported Hughes. In most
Instances where Colonel Roosevelt attempt
ed to secure Hughes votes by personal ap-
peal the people voted for .wnuon.
It Is clear that the Progressiva party.
Instead of being absorbed by the Repub
lican party, remains still Independent, and
may yet have- to be reckoned with, another
y , .i
Wnlto two cities wrai uurga uinnui
P4U1M10US VUKSOMtU . ""
win
VILLA NEARS TORREON
WITH 3400 ADDED FORCE
Carranzisjas Expected to Aban
don City to Outlaws Juarez
Next Goal
EL PABO, Tex., Nov. 10. Re-enforced
by 1400 men frpm Zacatecas under Gener
als Valuelos and Contreraa, the forces of
Pancho Villa today aro nearlng Torreon,
according to reports received here by
United States Government agents..
As (result of Villa's victory over the de
facto troops at Parral, Indications are that
the Carranza garrison will evacuate Tor
reon and permit It to be taken without
resistance, With Torreon In his possession,
Villa Is expected to move against Chihuahua
City and then attack Juarez.
Cl'ntral Trevlno, tha Carranza com.
mander at Chihuahua. Is seld to have only
1300 men, and there la doubt of their loyalty.
Among the refugees arriving at Juarez
today wero ten wealthy British residents of
Chihuahua. Half of their number were
women. Tney sam tnat It was reported In
Chihuahua that Villa has Issued orders to
his men to kill all Americans and Chinese
they find.
Car Jumps Track; Traffic Stopped
One woman fainted utter being slightly In
jured and traffic was tied up for fifteen min
utes when a south-bound street car Jumped
the track at Eighth and Chestnut streets af
9 -o'clock this morning. Mrs. J. f Boyer,
31 South Salford strsat, a caaaenn. fainted
after striking her hd against the side ot
tha oar. Hhe refi
Md UU JUaerve
k?-4j
... ji?,.:',
" w" 3?ig
r
a
m
go to tha hospital,
crwfer ttat
' -
HUGHES REFUSES
TO ADMIT WILSON
VICTOR AT POLLS
G. 0. P. Candidate Will Per
sonally Direct Watch
Over Ballots
WILL PROBE FOR ERRORS
Chairman Willcox Declares Re
publicans Seek Fair Tabu
lation Only
NEW YORK, Nov. 10. Chairmnn
Willcox announced thU afternoon thnt
he hail been informed the tjfticlnl ote
in California and New Hampshire would
bo announced by the Secretaries of
State In those two commonwealths
Monday. He declared the Republican
National Committee would take, formal
steps in the courts to obtain a recount
in case there was "evidence or sus
picion of fraud or ballot-box stuffing."
He said the same procedure, would be
taken .in North Dakota .and New
Mexico.
NEW TOniC. Nov. 10 Churlcs Hvans
Hughes refused today to admit thnt Presi
dent WUon hnd been ro-elcctcd. This was
made known by his secretary, Lawrence
Green.
"Mr. Hughes refuses to concede the elec
tion of President Wilson, but ho hns no
statement to make now," said Mr. Green.
Tho Republican campaign managers also
refuse to grant the Democratic claim of
victory and began preparations for n closo
QUICK NEWS
ABBOTT NOTIFIED OF DISMISSAL FROM COMMUTERS' CASE
The Philadelphia commuters' cas rose' to a" bitter cllnia today
when'Edward B. Martin, chairman of the transportation committeo
of the United .Business Men'a Association, dismissed Edwin K. Abbott
as counsel for the association. Abbott Is charged with misrepresenta
tion and exceeding his authority in nccepHnn the rate terms of the
Philadelphia and Reading.
t
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
Tirst rimlico race, claiming, purse, maidens, 2-ycar-oldc, O
furlongs Sweeter Than Sugar, 101, Lyke, $37.80, $13.70, won; Day.
break, 104, Crump, $11.00, $11.00, second; Dnr of Phoenix, J 12,
Doyle, $11.90, third. Time, 1.16.
Second Plmllco race, Emerson claiming, ateeplechase, 3year-olda
and up, S miles Tomo, 144, Tuckey, $18.20, $8.50, $5.10. won:
Eunway, 140, Emott, $5.40, $3.60, second; Ohevron, 141, .Russell,
$3.80, third. Time, S.58. '
FIRST WILSON BET PAID
' ' M?sf SBBBBfef
v SXstaw r mmm3AMmliFtmf t-Tfeix kXSB 'EH I
, fsHf SBBBBBsffsBBBBBBBaBBBBBvi IKmmmW NbBBBBBBBBBbMKi 'iZjftHK bVK' bBBbH J
Cenllnned on rie Elsht. Column Three HL S4'4fMSf'j w!KtWJf3b M&&L '
lmmmmWmWmWBmi$mNm& rSlMliWrlj;
mmmWmWmrWmmmmWmWK 1ZS t IWsSSSUSB
ImmmmmmWmmmS . ' & &MW0m'WmWto '
mmmmmWl6m?m7Eff' 'M k 4 l2lW4M&Zm'': SwIJP '
'mmmmmSmWPWWSm $&. ' W i WPlMiiMWt H 1mV-
.KWSfe. ygfflBa i lynji I III ,Jf :
I mmmmmWmmmmL'KmWmWmmmW ''SiWkWSKSSBKlK '
ImmmWmWJFt ' THBsW"! WQVt&mWtumU
isP?j?llfeiiBkil ' Afkri"',." '" ' "IliilMsBTlsriti -' ' .rT3gt!?mlMfHHssssi
-mmwimm''wv- i
)ttmSZ!MW3KiPVX3L:
mssi
t.Jiri'- ii'trfrt?tnrto-er&r''':"vffr'??i'vl
XJJZSSSSXXSZSIIXZ
, I'hoto by1 Derr
Vllliam Horton had to make good hfs wager on Hughes Inst night by pushing Harry Schmidt, who took tho
Wilson end, around tho Washington Hotel, Kensington, in a barrow to the accompaniment of cheers from
the population.
BLOCKADE OF FREIGHT
CARS ROUSES SHIPPERS
TO DEVISE RELIEF PLAN
8050 Loaded Carriers on Penn
sylvania Force Embargo, and
Manufacturers Join to
Clear Traffic
CAUSES OF CONGESTION
IEP
Philadelphia manufacturers today nro
making a frantic effort to brenk up a block
ade of 8050 loaded freight caro which yes
terday cauncd tho Pennsylvania llnllrnnil
to Impose a sweeping freight embargo, clos
ing this city nnd suburbs within a radius
of nfteen miles to freight nf all classes
except foodstuffs nnd less than -carload Iota
of bther Roods.
In a statement l;ued today, T. Noel
Butler, secretary of the Commercial Tratllo
Managers ot Philadelphia, declared that tho
carriers were partly to blame for tho freight
congestion.
"We hae noticed," said Mr. Butler, "re
ports to the effect that the situation Is due
to failure ot shippers and consignees to
load and unload cars promptly. Wo con
cede this to be true tot nn extent. Some
shippers are dilatory In handling freight
equipment On the other hand Increased
business and heavy- trnfllo play a part.
Carrier delays tratllo en routePand plac
ing cars for loading, and unloading must
also bear a share of the responsibility.
PUVN OP IinijIKP
'This association represents a majority
of the largest shippers and receivers ot
freight In Philadelphia territory, and a poll
of members reveals no serious delays on
their part In releasing cars. Attached (s a
copy of the notlco being sent to all mem?
bera today and we pledge the co-operation
of our members In thU p)jin to relieving tho
situation."
The notice sent to members of the usso.
elation bears the following' cations:
"Tronic U running heavy, congestion Is
Increasing; embargoes are hurtful to busl
elation bears the following captions;
Then below this follows: "Thee con
ditions are being experienced by aid of us,
Tbey bra caused by delays errors, careless
ness and Inefficient worav on the art of the
shipper, receiver and carrier. Members will
please hlp -Clear the situation. When you
ship, load heavy load quickly and load
cars 'home' as much as possible. What you
receive unload at opco and releaso all cars
Immediate!."
The blockage Is growing almost hourly,
and trade organizations, have Bounded a
general alarm of manufacturers and busi
ness men. pointing out that If the unloading
of cars is iyt speeded up business In the
FhtUMphla trade aoe will come- to a
--"-"' kUay ftMsfsiK arsis are si
r mmmm,m9'
:4'J;1
iSBUkW
.atffv
ammKrj.mmt ..-..
E" jpSV" ww
SAFE IN ILLUMINATED ROOM STOLEN AND ROBBED
NEW YOItK, Nov. 10. Safo-cracklnB has been developed to a line art In
"Brooklyn. Working1 In n brilliantly lighted room, in plain lcw of policemen on
duty outsldo, robbers entered tho showroom of tho Kdlson Company in Williamsburg
early today, took possession of tho 600-pound safe, roiled It into tho back ynrd and
Jimmied It open. After a leisurely ecarci of tho compartments, tho safe-crnckerB
mado oft with $000 loot.
BANKER PAYS ONE DOLLAR FOR DOZEN EGGS
HAniUSBUna, Nov. 10. Dollar osrs nro hero. Twoho choice tnblo egfirs laid
by Pennsylvania hens nro now brlngliiK $1 n dozen In Nqw York, according to
advices rccolved by tho Pennsylvania Department of Acrlculturo. On a visit to
Jersoy Shore, Lycomlnc County. W. Thoodoro Wlttninn, tho poultry expert of tho
department, was tpld of a contract recently closed with a New York banker for
twelve dozen cholco tablo eggs n week up to April 1 nct at $1 a dozen.
BUCHAREST PALACE NOW RED CRQSS HOSPITAL
GHNCVA. Nov, 10. Tho Royal palnco In Bucharest has beenturned Into a Ited
Cioss hospital for wounded Uumanlmi soldiers. Tho' Rumanian Queen lias been act
ing as a nurse.
INDIANAPOLIS CAR STRIKE THREATENED
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., Nov. 10. Apparently rollable reports aro current that
Indianapolis street car motormen nnd conductors will go on strike. Tho union ofll
clals refused to mako any statement. Tho men recently inado de'mandu on tho com
pany for hlghor wuges, recognition of tho union and shorter hours, which wero not
granted.
"BILL" ROPER TtESIGNS 'APPRAtSERSIUP
William W. Roper, former Prlhcctb'n footbAir star"and four years ago on ardent
supporter 'of Prcsldont Wilson, has resigned his position as Federal Appraiser of
Customs for tho Phlfadelphla district because, 1HA understood, ho opposed thoPresl
dont'a nttltudo toward tho Adamson law. Roper, known na a Republican, Jumped
Into the fight to eject Governor Wilson I'resldopt four years ago. Ho was a warm
personal friend of Mr. Wilson at Princeton."
-TAG G ART "GIVES" SENATE SEAT TO OPPONENT
RUSIIVILI.E, Ind., Nov. 10. "Dear Jim I liavo been trying to hold thut seat
I selected lost week, but have decided to lot you have It. Cpngrntulatlons." Thus
did 'Tom" Tuggart congratulate "Jim" Watson today on his election to the United
States Benato over Tuggart.
PARKER SAYS PROGRESSIVES' ELECTED WILSON
NEW ORLHANH, Nov, 10. John M. Parker I'rogreailvo vico presidential candi
date, today said;" "In 1912 Progressives Voted their honest convictions votod against
tho party of pilvllpgo and thoso Old Guard standpat Republicans who wero over
whelming! repudlnted by their own party Progreaslvei were responsible for the
election of Woodrqw Wilson, who has had enacted more, human welfare, progressive
legislation tlmn had been accomplished In tho tirccedlnij fifty years.' Progressives will
bo absolutely responsible for Woodrow WllsoVa' ro-elpctlon, confidently behoving ho
Will be a progressive President."
V
TEN HOUSES DESTROYED BY FIRE AT STEELTON
IIAItRIsnURG, Nov. 10. Ten houses wero destroyed In the-'West aldo dis
trict qf Htoolton last nfght and nvo damaged by a fire of unknown origin, Soveral
families lost pll effects because of the rapid spread of. the (Ire, arid Harrlaburg fire
men were called on for help. The loss la more than J10.00O.
nore than 11
rpifr u.
jjf
BIGGEST BEET SUtfAR OUTPUT U. S. HAS KNOWN
WASHINGTON, Nov 10. The greatest beet sugar output the UnrUd States has
ever produced was. rfiport,od today by the Bureau jof'Crop Etlaute. Tiw proAuo.
lion swubh mi t,uv ions, an increase or ,nn nvrr lint jsars ra(Kyl output.
WikA ITM.M Ml ..Hicu kA l.u, ua u-u.au &. u
-nsp HJ- H. JN HTfSHftl SSJS
mmm vn law
" ' if
&-' imth
fflS LEAD; WINS '.
WITH 272 VOTES
1 W
Minnesota and New;
Hampshire Continue fa
Doubtful
CALIFORNIA'S VOTE
MAY SHOW DIVISION.
Count Not Completed in
New Mexico and West
Virginia
G. O. P. ASKS RECOUNTS
d
Democrats Will Have Safo Ma
jority in Senate, but House i
Is Very Close ,
I
Tho re-election of Woodrow Wilson to
the presidency, on the fnco of returns
available late this afternoon, was made
certain by 272 votes in the electoral
college.
Charles E. Hughes has 243 votes.
Minnesota nnd New Hampshire re
main in tho uoubuui column with a
total of 1G votes.
Republicans arc claiming Minnesota
for -Hughes by 1000, with tho voto of
tho State's troops at tho border not
taken into consideration. '
Olllcinl returns so far received give
New Hampshire to Wilson by 239. Un
official returns from missing towns put S
the State back in the Ilighcs column f
by 7i.
California's cntiro vote has not been
counted. Wilson's lead is so command
ing that it appears- no matter what tha ,
result in tho few remaining precincts r
he will have n clear plurality over
Hughes. There remained, however, the
possibility of n division of the State's a
electoral vote of thirteen.
The count hns not been completed la
New Mexico and West Virginia. Wilson
is leading in the forrncr State and
Hughes In tho latter. " t ,
Republican headquarters in New
x ork still held out; without conceding:
Wilson's 'diociiw. . " v -ifr'ragflacagj;
National, Chairman Willcox, in. arvf; f
statement issued in New York, 'said:
"The result still depends upon the vote
'of a few close States. We owo it to
the country to take all necessary steps'
to see that an exact and honest count '
of the vote is mnde. All we desire is
to make sure that tho vote be counted
ns cast." . -
The same incomplete returns which
apparently showed election of the Na-
tional Democratic ticket also indicated
today that President Wilson will hava
a safe majority in tho Senate, but an
exceedingly close -one in the House.
SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 10. Complete
returns from S838 out of E866 precincts
in California at 9:20 today g.io Wilson
406,752. Hughes 462,859, a lead for Wilson
of 3893.
The reduction jn the total vote for WII
son was caused by a correction made by
County Clerk Kay, of Humboldt County, '
which showed Wilson had previously been
erroneously credited with 1000 votes. In,
Heildlng, returns from 78 precincts, Kay
gae theso figures: Hughes B670; WH-- ,
son, 5014. He declared today that Wilson's
total should hna been 4014. Two addl- "
tional precincts Jn Jlumbpldt County t-
brought Wilson's total to 4049 and Hughes' . j - ""
lo XtlZZ,
An nddltlpnnl precinct from San Bernar
dino County gae Wilson 415 arid Hughes
152.
This leaves only 28 precincts In Cali
fornia to be heard from. The revision ot
the Humboldt County vote will not change
the result In California.
In an extra edition this morning the San
Frjuiclsco Chronicle, one of the staunch
Hughes supporters In the West, conceded
California to' Wilson y a plurality -of about
3006 and declared the President had bau
re-elected. Chester Howell, Ilepubllcaa
Btate chairman, was not willing to concede
tho State to tho President without quati-
llcatlon. Ha admitted that California had
apparently gpne pemocratlo on the faoe
of utmost complete returns, but asserts
he would not abandon hope until tha om&lal
count had been finished.
r'ossiBLB umtona ,
"Because o'f substantial errors already , ' '
discovered ill Unofficial counts," Ilowell salyjSlf'
"It Is quite possible to change the appMaift'' '"
. u
v , i &
result of the voting In, California 1yt&
teotlng and correcting similar and-yt 'wi- f
discovered errors," $ t
Meanwhile, Democratlo leaders, toe, nri
Continued oo rTw. fTt-iwn .ttj '
THE WEATHER
FORECAST. .
For Philadelphia and. vieimtvtimi ,
tonight! Saturday overeatt osUUr9i&-
wind. . , ,
MEKOTH OF MV
uov,.4s . s I
DIM.1WAHK lltt'iat, Tlitl OKAJNHH
cmrrsi'T sniiar
f&W::l1t?Zlip S&lXtw "
rc
t,fzl,
