1
_ !
10 MORE DAYS UNTIL LANCASTER COUNTY FAIR 10 MORE DAYS l
The Lancaster News Is]
_ _
VOL. 12, NO. 9, SUM I-WEEKLY. LANCASTER, S. C.. FRIDAY, NOV. 10, 1916. $1.50 A YEAR
rnhcjIUtNT WHH^OW^WILSON
WILSON AND MARSHALL
RE-ELECTED BY PARTY
Spontaneous Celebrations Follow Announcement That Californis
Is Conceded to Democratic Candidate. Thus Giving More
Than Required Number of Electoral Votes.
Asl>ury Park, Nov. >1.?Socrctury Tuniiilty wired formal notifh-titioi
to tlio President of his re-election. Tlie message was wirelessetl tti th<
President aboard the Mayflower.
Secretary Tumulty waited for the flash from the Associated Press tlia
President Wilson had carried California. When it came a shout of Joy wen
up inside the executive offices and Secretary Tumulty, who had told tin
President he would not congratulate him until the definite news was known
sent a wireless message to the Mayflower giving his congratulations.
New York, Nov. 9.?The re-election of President Woodrow Wilson an<
Vice President Thomas K. Marshall, was made a certainty shortly after 1
o'clock tonight when Republican State Chairman Howell of California con
ceded that State to Wilson on the Democratic candidate's showing of mor?
than 2,900 plurality in that State with only 48 precincts to hear from.
The placing of California in the Wilson column gave the President a de
finite 269 electoral votes, three more than enough to elect, with a prospec
of adding to that on the completion of the count in States still in douht.
Upon the conceding of the California result the New York and othei
metropolitan papers. Democratic and Republican, were quick to declare th?
National fight settled in favor of the President. Torchlight and brass ban'
processions in this city and in thousands of other places throughout tin
country sprung up spontaneously and the Democratic victory w^s N'a
tionally celebrated with outbursts of hilarity probably nev^r before equnllec
in American polities.
It was 60 hours after the polls had closed in California when Chatrmai
Rowell conceded that State to the President and ended the suspense anc
anxiety of an election which has been unparalleled in American politico
history.
Barring some wholly unexpected turnover In the Incomplete States lean
log toward Wilson or a change on a recount, California's acquisition to th<
Democratic column gave the President 269 electoral votes without Nev
Mexico's three. In New Mexico at midnight the President was leading b:
2,634 votes with 158 districts missing and it was not believed this ad
vantage could be overcome by Mr. Hughes.
Conceding West Virginia, New Hampshire and Minnesota to Mr. Hughe:
?and he was in the lead in all three?only gives him 259 votes, seven lesi
than the required majority. With 272 votes in sight President Wilson hac
six to spare for a possible split of electors in California, or a sudden rever
sal In New Mexico. ?woeoee
a
THE FAIR
4 > 4
\ I By Douglas Malloch. *
< > We wreet no subterranean Btore from out of caverns deep and dark, *
* < Nor with the bn>od-red hand of war ma^ke harvest of a nation's \
? tears. J wa J
; Ours is the wealth of God's1 good soil, and on his earth we leave \
< * no marjt *
<; But furrows of the farmer's toil, the business of a thousand <
! :/ jear/ j
\ ' Here we assemble what we grew, here we have gathered of the yield, !
J \ The products of the work we do, our answer to the ones who ask. !
^ ; These are the children of the seed, arisen in the fertile field, J
\ \ A world of weary onee to feed?a noble duty, honest task. !
( > <
! ! Even in joy of labor done we have our hour for deeper thought, <
< > m. xi-_ -i x it i?? - - ? - 4
4 xo we uie giory ox xne sun in smiling xruit and golden grain; <
4 E'en in the frolic of the fair we realize how Ood has wrought
! Till herds increase and blossoms bear, fed by his sunshine and <
his rain. * <
> All mindful of our work again another season yet to be, '
F X Let us come forth rejoicing then to pass a merry week away? <
J ! Proud of the treasures that are ours, with merriment and industry j
Taking of earth both fruit and flowers, taking of life both <
work and play. J
9 4 ' 4
[MR WYLIE
! TO MA
He Gives Chester's Rate
Per One Thousand G;
Million Consumpt
And Figure:
Mr. Editor: In the lust issue of
The News, appears a lengthy communication,
by Mayor C. D. Jones, in
which he refers to one of mine, in
reference to the contemplated contract
by the City of Lancaster to furnish
water tr? tht> T.nnoiictof r>,
Mills. The mayor insinuates that
my motive was not so much to serve
the public interest, but was rather
animated by "hostility to certain
I members of the city council and to
Col. Leroy Springs, as president of
lthe Lancaster Cotton Mills." In
I fact he says such purpose is "manijffst."
I disclaim any such purpose.
(My sole object was to suggest to the
(city council that they give the public
jthrough the newspapers the proI
posed plan, with facts, figures and
jesHmates, and to offer the suggestion
that the council should be sure
of two matters, viz.:
First. Whether the city was get.
ting a reasonable profit for its water.
Second. Whether such contemplated
contract would endanger the
' supply of water.
To keep the record straight. I will
give my former communication in its
I entirety, so that the public can
draw its own inferences. Here it is:
"Mr. Editor: I understand that
the city council is considering the
i matter of supplying the Lancaster
a Cotton Mills with water. If such be
the case the council should be absot
lately certain of two facts, viz.:
t First. That the contract gives
i? the city a reasonable profit.
, Second^ That the present source
of water supply, "considering the future
growth of the city, is not there1
by endangered.
I Along with other taxpayers, I am
- interested in this matter and think
- that the council should be absolutely j
sure of their ground before entering!
- into a contract which would obligate
t the city to furnish, outside of the
city limits, many millions of gallons
i of water, each year, during; the life
i of the contract.
1 "Of course there is no objection to
i such a contract provided the city
- gets a reasonable profit and the fu- ,
l ture water supply be not jeopardized.
"Would it not be well for the city
i council to give the public the benefit
1 of such facts, figures and estimates
1 as they have obtained on the subject?"
1
We challenge any one to find in
? this article, one word, or sentence,
>' which is not in keeping with the proy
prleties and with my rights as a cltl
zen and taxpayer. The mayor, instead
of confining himself to the two
? issues raised in my article, indulges
* in gratuitous and unwarranted per1
sonalties, thereby imitating plain
tiff's attorney, who realizing that hia
client had no case, proceeded to
abuse defendant's attorney. At any
t rate, the public through my instru'
mentality has been put into posses
sion of just the kind of information
it ought to have. The data given
? the mayor, whilst interesting, does
not satisfy me that the city, under
the proposed contract will get a
| reasonable profit for its water, at ,
(cents per 1,000 gallons*, or that the
jsupply will not he jeopardized ai
some future time.
I ; As to the first point, I understand
that our own citizens who use water
have to pay 7 5 cents for the first
t 2,000 gallons, or less used, and non[
residents one dollar for a like
amount. Why should these be dlst
criminated against in favor of cont
sumersof water in the mill district?
jThe city of Chester will furnish wat
jter to the Wylie Mills at the domestic
Irate, making no discrimination
| I against its citizens, aB hereinafter
Jshown, then why should Lancaster
? |do otherwise? If the water
[ is to be furnished, why should
J I it not be furnished directly,
If the water is to be furnished, why
\ should it not be furnished directly.
\ by the city, to the consumer, at
something like the rate, now in force
as to non-resident consumers, which
I is $1.00 for every 2,000 gallons,j
provided of course that the supply
is not endangered. The mayor says
[ the proposed contract will be of
REPLIES
TOR JONES!
Which Is 15 1-5 Cents
illons Based on One
ion?Other Facts
> Set Forth.
great benefit to \he city, and that
Mr. Springs is indifferent about accepting
it. He says "Our fear 1?
that the city may lose the benefit of|
a valuable contract because of the I
captious and foolish hostility being j
tormented and exhibited about the
matter."
Never fear. Mr. Jones; Mr. Springs,
the president of the mills, is looking
after his end of the line and will
make no contract that is not dis-l
tinctly advantageous to his inter-1
ests, which of course is entirely
proper. In this connection, I might
say that I have for years owned
stock of no inconsiderable amount,
in the Lancaster Cotton Mills, and
purchased quite recently a block of
the common stock. Hut whilst I am
interested in the mills, I ant more in )
terested in our city and would not'
like to have it make a contract
which would be prejudicial to it. as;
I believe this one will be; and right
here let me predict that Mr. Springs j__
will take the contract at the pro posed
rate. Indeed, I understand T
that pipes have been already laid
down near the city main on the ex-'
tension of South Main street and extending
for some distance in the direction
of the Lancaster Cotton Mills. I
as well as at other points. ' (j
Mr. Jones says: "The editor of
The News. Mr. Wylie and other critics j
have either through ignorance oi l
prejudice not taken the trouble to
thoroughly inform themselves as to
the attitude of other cities in funishing
water to nearby manufacturing,
plants. For invito ."* ' -?
- ,W --i"TY i am i mutiny
forhuV'fhnt the city of Chester is.(j
furnishing water to the Wylie Cotton
iVHIIb, which is two miles outside
the corporate limits, at a rate of j
7 l-2c a thousand gallons, and no
doubt they would gladly furnish the
Eureka Cotton Mills, which is outBid?
the corporate limits of said
town, on the same basis." *_2
I do not know where Mr. Jones got
his information. I have seen a letter
from the city engineer of Chester. t<
dated 8|b inst., in which he says that
the water to be used by the Wylie
Mills will be furnished at the following
rate, which is the domestic rate: m
First 4.000 gallons at 40c per w
thousand gallons. tb
Next 6,000 gallons at 2 5c per thou- ^
Bands gallons. tc
Next 10,000 gallons at 20c per
thousand g allons.
ai
All over 10,000 gallons at 15c P?r|w
thousand gallons. ^
Th|p figures 1,000,000 gallons
would cost $152.10 or over fifteen ""
cents per thousand gallons, instead'
of seven and one-half cents per thou-'
sand gallons as Mr. Jones says he is!
"reliably Informed."
ine letter also states that th^
Wylie Mills is situated about half
mile beyond the city limits Instead1
of two miles as stated by Mr. Jones. !
If the city engineer of Chester
knows what he is talking about it
would seem that "ignorance and
prejudice*.' is not all on our side and
that some other folks "have not takei.
the trouble to thoroughly inform
themselves."
Notwithstanding Mayor Jones'
opinion to the contrary. I believe the
contemplated contract will jeopardize
the present water supply. One
of the main arguments used by those
who opposed the voting of bonds for
water was that the present supply
would be inadequate to meet the'
city's growth ana development. It j
the argument was of any force then
it should certainly be so now, when
the council proposes to furnish wa- j
ter to a community whose nonul?tin?.
exceeds that of the . city. Why act
whan there is ?rave doubt about the
matter? Suppose, in the future, b> 1
reason of the contract, the city of I
Lancaster is forced to issue addition-.
a) bonds and go to the Catawba
river for water? And this very con- I
tlngency may arise. Whilst I believe
the present supply is adequate to the '
needs of the city for many years yet j
it might not be, if we are too generous
in furnishing it in large quan-,
*
(Continued on Page I)
\
V v v
y TTpr'r"" r ?'" TTv * "* ..?
i ' * ?
i ' g
|
THOMAS R. MARSHALL.
MANNING WILL NOT BE *
CANDIDATE U.S. SENATOR
overnor of South Carolina Puts at Rest All Rumors as to His
Future Aspirations for Tillman's Spat.
Columbia, S. C., Nov. 1).?"No, I will not bo a candidate for the
United States Senate two years hence," said Governor Manning in
n interview today.
It is known that a large number of the Governor's friends from
nriotis pa*ts of the State have been urging him to become a canidate
for Senator Tillman's seat in the Senate and it was under:ood
by a great many people that the Governor would run.
When asked about the matter. Governor Manning said: "No,,
will not be a candidate for the United1 States Senate two year?;,
ence. Among other reasons, I feel that my undivided attention
> the duties of the Governor's office will be required and my pur^se
and desire is to continue to consecrate my best efforts to the
irvice of the Governor's oltice.
IMPOltTANT TO SOW WHEAT. at this time then to call their attenCfemson
College, Nov 1 tiers to this most important matter.
a All Agents. Please make every effort to secure?
If there should be a failure or
, .. ? , as large an acreage as possible,
'en a shortage 111 the wheat crop of
lis country in the next twelve Respectfully,
onths, the matter of wheat bread W. W. l.ONO, Director.
All 1/1 hoAAm o q aotd aiic nrokln *v? #? %* A d i t t*? V /\t a T ho n h a
le price would possibly be higher munication has just been received?
tan any time within the recent his- by Mr. C. L. McManus, Farm Demon>ry
of our country. stration Agent, Lancaster county*.
I am writing to urge that you will and he has requested The News tc?
ake a special effort to have as large publish same with request to all far?
j acreage seeded as possible in mers to be guided accordingly.. *
heat. You could not perform a Farmers! Don't delay this important
reater service to your people just matter longer.
^
I BE A BOOSTER *
: " 'i : '
Anyone almost can be a knocker;
+ So why not try your best to be a booster?
With pessimists the world's already filled. *
. You can't expect that things will always suit +
y?u; I
4. In melancholy judgment then you sit? .
4. No. Better far to help along a little; .
Better far to boost a little bit. +
It never pays to join the anvil chorus.
Or spread unkind reports about your town;
% Many there are to hamper and retard it, X
Who do their level best to run it down.
What if it has its little failings?
It has it's good points, also?hasn't it?
So whv not to the wheel flHiliaf vnnr ahnnUor
* Why not get out and boost a little bit? *
A churlish dog may bay the moon in anguish; ^
+ The frog must croak, for nature willed it so, +.
^ The mules were placed on earth to do the
kicking +
(As any good zoology will show) +
The good Lord has provided for the knock
ing,
4 So if a wider groove you long to fit, A
4 Adopt this as a motto: "BE A BOOSTER" +
And then get out and boost a little bit.
...............
i
