THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post
office at Ronan. Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1879.
VOL. VII. NO. 28. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, NOVEMBER 10, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
,CALIFORNIA TURNS TIDE
AND ELECTSPRES. WILSON
New York, Nov. 9.--President Wilson has carried
California and has been re-elected.
Fifty hours after the polls closed in California, Republi
can Chairman Rowell, conceded the state to the president.
Thus the 13 votes needed to assure the president a majority
in the electorial college, dropped into the democratic column
and upparently ended the suspense and anxiety of an
election which has bqen unaparalled in American history.
New York, Nov. 9.-On the second day after the Ameri
can people cast their presidential ballots the result still is
in doubt and the contest between President Wilson and
Charles E. Hughes has narrowed down to a point where it
may be decided by a few western states.
It is within the range of possibilities that the votes of na
tional guardsmen on border duty might turn some of the
-doubtful states from one column to another.
Based on actual returns received by the Associated Press,
the electoral college now gives Hughes 239 votes, Wilson
240 and leaves 52 doubtful.
Two of the metropolitan newspapers which supported Mr.
Hughes gives him 252 votes, President Wilson 251 and ad
m t the doubtful character of only California, New Mexico
and Minnesota. Another which supported the president
agrees with its contemporaries in giving him 251 votes, but
concedes Mr. Hughes 228 and regards the others-in seven
:states-as doubtful.
Each of the national chairmen expresses the utmost con
fidence that the ultimate results will elect his candidate.
With the contest narrowing steadily to close votes in the
vital spots, recounts are almost inevitable and each side is
on the watch for irregularities. There is no assurance tlifat
the result will be fully known in another day.
New York, Nov. 8.-At midnight returns, such as were
complete or so far complete as to be regarded as indicative,
gave Pre&i.ent Wilson 232 votes in the electoral colleg -;
Hughes, 239, and left 60 votes doubtful in eight states. It
requires 266 votes to elect a president.
Although California still showed a lead for the president
and his campaign managers- were claiming it by at least
1,500, the president's majority there had dwindled to a little
more than 1,400 with about one-fifth of the districts missing.
MINNESOTA BECOMES DEBATABLE.
In Minnesota, too, the Wilson lead which was as high as
10,000 early in the day, steadily decreased as the vote from
the rural districts came in. During the evning Hughes took
the lead with a small margin and then the president shot
ahead again, but with less than 1,000 votes. The Repub
lican managers claimed the state on the final returns.,
UNDERPAID EMPLOYEES
WANT 1HEIR SHARE
Thousands of workers on the rail
roads of the Northwest are joining the
movement of the committee of em
ployees known as the "Eighty Per
Cent" now securing petitions to con
gress for an investigation of the wages
and working conditions of all railway
employes before pay increases are put
into effect as provided by the Adamson
law. Representatives of employes
other than the twenty per cent now in
cluded in the Adamson act, making a
tour in the interest of the eighty per
cent not coming under the provisions of
the act, declare that the future wel
fare sf all railway workers is at stake.
Under the Adamson law an increase
would go to train service employes that
would preclude for years to come wage
increases for those workers to which
there is no reference made in the act,
and for that reason the measure as it
now reads is opposed by about 1,600,
000 employees. Even on the present
basis of pay, trainmen and enginemen,
many of whom do not require the years
of special training, nor work daily the
long hours that fall to the lot of me
chanics, trackmen, clerks, etc., draw
greater compensation. To grant the
advances that would accrue under the
act recently passed will still further
tend to keep down the wages of other
classes, say the "Eighty Per Cent"
repr sentatives.
It is to present a solid front before
congress at the coming' short session
that the "Eighty Per Cent" workers
are now extending their campaign to
all parts of the country. Their efforts
have been successful to a marked de
gree, they say, resulting in the awaken
ing of employes not taken care of in
Adamson act to the deplorable con
ditions which will be be brought about
should this so-called eight-hour law ho
come effective as a law January 1,
1917.
HUGHES TAKES SAFE LEAD
IN DOUBTFUL MINNESOTA
St. Paul, Nov. S.-Charles E. Hughes
took the lead in the presidential con
test in Minnesota, when returns from
2,481 precincts out of 3,024 in the state,
compiled at midnight, gave Wilson,
160,141; Hughes, 160,365.
With returns from the rural districts
of Minnesota coming in rapidly tonight,
the early lead established by Presi
dent Wilson, was being gradually cut
down by Charles E. Hughes.
When the closeness of the vote in
the presidential contest in this state
became evident late tonight, several
state officials expressed the belief that
the definite outcome would not he
known until the votes cast by the Min
nesota guardsmen at the Mexican bor
der had been tabulated.
The guardsmen vote was taken yes
terday by special commissioners, ap
pointed by Governor Burnquist under
the provisions of a law enacted by the
recent special session of the legisla
ture. It Is not expected that these re
turns will be entered in the proper
precinct records before next week.
U'nofficially, it was estimated that the
guardsmen vote aggregated about
2,800.
Figures just compiled by government
employes at Fort Yellowstone show
that 17,588 Yellowstone National Park
visitors passed through the Gardiner
gateway during 1916. This was the
only entrance to show a gain over the
preceding year. According to these
records nearly as many tourists entered
the park through Gardiner as through,
all of the other gateways combined.
Tourists, going via Gardiner, believe
they see the most picturesque scenery
as well as tour by the most direct route
is the reason assigned for this gain.
We buy cream and furnish the cans.
--Ronan Mere. Co.
PRESIDENT
V WIL SON
ALL COUNTY FFICERS
The voters of Missoula county have
spoken and The Missoulian this morn
ing takes pleasure in introducing you
to the men who will have charge of
county's affairs for the next two years.
Whether by virtue of President Wil
son's remarkable showing at the head
of the ticket, or by some other un
known quantity, which figures so
largely in elections and has never been
labelled, the Democratic candidates r
fared best at the hands of the electo
rate. That is, with the exception of the i
legislative ticket. Four republicans will
represent \lissoula county in the state
legislature and they will be accom
panied by one Democrat, Dwight N.
\lason, of Ronan. Addison Lusk,
lUonald Higgins, 1-1. M. Buell and Dani
MlcQuarrie were the Republicans
elected.
Harry M. Rawn, F. Thayer Stoddard,
William Dyson, Abbon Lucy (un
opposed) and Samuel Pulliam kept the
Republican candidates from being I
shut out. Harry M. Rawn defeated
Thomas Conlon, clerk of the district
court for two terms, Thayer Stoddard
took S. H. Ketcham's measure and
Abbon Lucy had a fine time running
practically against himself.
The judges of the Fourth judicial
district were all re-elected. Asa L.
Duncan, R. Lee McCulloch and Theo- K
dore Lentz were all returend to the
bench by comfortable margins.
W. J. Babington proved very con
clusively that his work had met with
the approval of the voters by breezing
in under double wraps.
"Jim'" Green has been elected sheriff
of Missoula county. lie had little dif
ficulty in securing a commanding lead
over the present incumbent, Whittaker.
Clarence Prescott defeated Charles
Marsh for the office of county comi
miSSioner.
J. W. Buford, who has served as
chief deputy in the treasurer's officeI
has been elevated to the head of this
department.
Daniel Currie had little trouble in
convincing the voters that he should
assess them for another two years.
Fred Angevine has been selected as
prosecutor for the county during the
ensuing term. He had a decisive lea1
over his Republican opponent, WV. t.
ilooiOe.
Ethel Evanson was elected enurtc
aulitor and Miss 3tiTlej M. l~in'd
stadt, county superintendent of ilhools
Ralph Arnold was chosen public ad
ministrator.
William Dyson and Phil f.ignon wili
ageain serve as justices of the peace for
I-Hllgato township.
The detailed vote will be found (ni
pigeli four and five of this mornina
I issIc lian. The report is pri tic,!!
complete. Precinct No. 4 has nit l t
reportcd and the judges estimate dllh
lii count will not be completed bi ftI I
sometime tomorrow. Returns could not
be secured from Lothrop and will not
be available until today. There is
hardly a chance, however, that the re
turns from the missing precincts will
have any effect on the outcome of the
election.
Word received from Missoula at noon
today is to the effect that Dan Hey
fron and Dan McQuarrie are tied for
representative in the legislature, both
having 2,974 votes each. The official
canvass may break the tie, mistakes
being frequent in unofficial returns.
CALIFORNIA'S DECISION
HANGS IN THE BALANCE
Son Francisco, Nov. S.-At midnight
no further election returns from Cali
fornia were available, advices from
various sections saying officials had
locked up their booths and gone to bed.
The indications were that no further
tabulation of the presidential vote
could be made before morning.
With the votes from more than 100
precincts in Los Angeles locked up for
the night and San Francisco virtually
complete, 5,105 precincts of 5,917 in
California gave Hughes 431,866; Wil
son, 435,909. Hughes was ahead in Los
SAngeles, and Wilson in San Francis
co.
HUGHES SPENDS DAY
WATCHING THE RETRNS
N\,w York, Nov. 8.-*-Charles E.
IHughes and his wife spent the better
part of 16 hours today in their apart
ments at an tiptown hotel here watch
ins the eijh and flow of the election
returns.. Most of the day they were
lone. Their three daughters left soon
;ft er breakfast, Miss Catherine to ro
inrn to Wellesley and 'Miss Elizabeth
to take Miss Helen hack to school in
\Vaelhington.
lt irmnan Willcox dined ith the
rnominee and his wife tonight. As he
leaving Mr. Wilicox declared that
be hlieved Mr. Hughes had been
b etvd and added thl;t the nominee
? are l this belief.
Mr. Hughes adhered to his deter
vil 10ion to say nothing until the re
It should have been Darned definite
Londlon, Nov. i.--A Lliot tls dispatch
fromt Falnouth reports t1:o British
,ainner Pontts ashore and on tC`e III
ul anoutih Lay.
STEWART FOR GOVERNOR;
MYERIS BACK TO SENATE,
Helena, Nov. 8.-(Special.)-With about three-fifths of
the vote tabulated on state and national returns, it is prob
able that Wilson has carried Montana by a little more than
20,000 plurality. In the face of the Wilson landslide the Re
publican state and county tickets have suffered partial dis
aster in most of the counties of the state.
Battling against the Wilson current, Edwards for gov
ernor has cut Stewart's plurality to about 1,000 up to this
time, with a heavy vote in northeastern Montana hardly
heard from. The Democratic politicians privately admit
the election of Judge Brantley, the election of Miss Trumper
for state superintendent and the probable election of Dan
Boyle for railroad commissioner. Ford for attorney general
is running close up to Poindexter and may yet win. The
balance of the state ticket looks Democratic.
In the congressional race, Myers has undoubtedly defeat
ed Pray by approximately 8,000 plurality. Evans is elected
to congress by a slightly reduced vote, while Miss Rankin
and Mitchell are struggling for second place. At 11 o'clock
tonight the Republican state committee's figures, in a vote
of about 100,000 showed Miss Rankin leading Mitchell by
20 votes. They believe, however, that the returns from'
Sheridan, Valley, Phillips, Hill and Blaine counties will give
her the final victory.
DRYS WIN GREAT VICTORY.
Helena, Nov. 8.-(Special.)-Incomplete returns from
various sections of the state indicate that the "drys" have
won an overwhelming victory at Tuesday's election.
It looks now as if Silver Bow and Mineral might be the
only counties in Montana that have given a "wet" majority.
In Silver Bow, the later returns are cutting down the first
estimated majority for the "wets" and the "drys" claim that
Silver Bow will only give about 1,800 against prohibition.
Returns coming in today from the
counties in the eastern part of the
state indicate that the democratic vie
tory inr Montana will be confined to
the Wilson electoral ticket, the sen*
atorship, one congressman and the
governor. With one-fifth of the re
returns to come in, and from repub
lican strongholds, it is altogether prob
able that outside of the offices men
tioned above, the entire republican
state ticket will be elected.
As matters now stand, Stewart for
secretary of state, Brantley for chief
I.W.W. BATTLE AT
EVERETT, WASH.
Everett, Wash., Nov. 6.-Six men
were killed and at least forty were
wounded at the water front here when
250 Industrial Workers of the World.
who had sought to invade Everett by
steamer from Seattle, engaged in a
pitched battle with a posse of sher
iffs and citizens at the wharf.
Sheriff Don McRea, who was at the
head of the force of 150 men, resisted
the agitators, and was among the seri
ously injured. He dropped at the first
volley from the steamer's deck.
The invasion of the I. W. W.'s was
a carrying out of a threat they made
last week to hold a mass meeting in
the city in defiance of the citizens,
who previously had driven them from
town, and in vindication of their "con
stitutional rights."
I. W. W.'s Open Fire.
The fusillade was opened by the T.
W. W.'s. A thousand shots were ex
changed before the panic-stricken in
vaders could get their boat turned
and tly to a safe distance. Many men
were seen to fall on the decks and
others, frightened as the bullets rain
ed about them, jumped into the water,
and, it is thought, were drowned.
When word that the Industrial
Workers of the World expedition had
left Seattle reached Everett a mill
whistle was blown as a signal to the
citizens and the posse gathered at the
Conunercial club for instructions. Un
der orders fromi Sheriff Meltea, sonic
of the men armed themselves with
cilts, lut. niany carried pistols.
According to witnesses the first shot
was fired by a man who was standing
near the Varona pilot house. He fired
five, shots in tinici succession. thev
sm1(. s nose seemnc to be the signal
for a fusillade from the boat.
Unarmed Citizens Flee.
The unarmed citizens fled, but those
who carried pistols sought cover and
returned the fire. The shooting con
tinied until the Verona backed away
from the wharf and turned toward
Seattle.
The trouble between the Industrial
justice, Hart for treasurer, Ford for
i attorney general, Boyle for railroad
- commissioner, Truinper for state "ssap.
erintendent and Craig' for oikt* of the
supreme court, all republieans, pie
elected by safe majorities. Miss Ra*ft
kin is undoubtedly elected by 5,000;
Evans, democrat, by about the same,
while Myers wins over Pray by more
than 8,000.
Republicans will control the next sen
ate and may have a majority in the
the house.
Prohibition carried by from 25,000 to
30,000 majority.
,vrnersn us me wo-1a ann roe aUTbOtTi
ties at Everett has been on for sev
eral months and was the outgrowth of
a strike of shingle weavers here. After
several minor outbreaks of violence
during the strike, Sheriff McRea or
ganired the citizens' committee and
expelled all members of the Industrial
Workers of the World from Everett.
On several occasions small parties
of men have attempted to enter Ever
ett but have been turned back by the
SEATTLE POLICE TAKE
CHARGE OF STEAMER
Seattle, Nov. 6.-The steamer Vero
na, which carried the Industrial Work
ers of the World expedition to Everett
returned here with four dead and
twenty injured on board.
When the Verona pulled into its
slip the wharf was surrounded by po
liceumen, some armed with shotguns
and others with drawn pistols, and
thirty national guardsmen. All the
guardsmen stood at fixed bayonets
and their belts filled with bail car
tridges.
As the steamer drew alongside the
pier, Captain of Police D. F. Willard
shouted to Captain Wyman of the Ve
rona not to lend. Several members of
the Industrial Workers aboard the
boat started to clamber over the
steamer's rail, but policemen halted
them at the point of revolvers.
One gangplank was lowered and,
under supervision of police, the
wounded were taken off the boat first,
assisted by their uninjured comrades,
and were removed to the city hos
pital. The four dead were taken to
the -morgue.
All of the uninjured men were load
trl into automobiles under heavy po
lice guard and taken to the city jail.
Redding,' Cal., Nov. G.-Alexander
V. Naimes gras arrested on suspicion
here, after he had informed the po
lice two unidentified men had come
to his home and murdered Rosetta
Durbin, his housekeeper, and John
Pollock, his guest.
Investigation resulted. in the find
ing of the decapitated bodies in front
of Naimes' home.
