Wl
ELY
H
H H
THE TRIBUNE'S CIRCULA
TION IS THE LARGEST IN
CAPE GIRARDEAU, i i
THE TRIBUNE COVERS
SOUTHEAST MISSOURI
LIKE THE DEW. , i
A NEWSPAPER THAT PRINTS ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT AND PRINTS IT FIRST
VOL. XV
THE CAPE COUNTY HERALD, CAPE GIRARDEAU MISSOURI, NOVEMBER 10. 1916.
NUMBER 44.
WILSOM
TrSl
1c3 ""5) Tc3
ALL AMENDMENTS
LOSES IN COUNTY;
WETS BEAT DRYS
Prohibition is Rejected by
Vote of Almost Two to One,
Official Count Shows.
STOCK LAW WINS BY
MORE THAN 500 Votes
Farmers and Autoists Are Said to
Have Worked for LawJveep
ing Stock Off Roads.
The three proposed amendments to
the State Constitution lost in the elec
tion in Cape Girardeau County last
Tuesday, but the stock law carried by
a safe majority. The official count,
which was completed yesterday, show
ed ihat the State-wide prohibition
amendment was defeated by the great
est majority, the vote being almost two
to one against it.
Reports from many counties in the
State indicate that the voters were
confused by the amendments, as has
always been the case, but Cape Girar
deau County voters scratched those
they opposed and supported the
amendments they favored without any
errors.
The vote of the amendments and
the stock law was as follows:
Amendment No. 1.
Tor 2971
Against 2991
Lost by 20
Amendment No. 2.
For 3253
Against 3618
Lost by 365
Amendment No. 3.
For 2146
Against 4117
Lost by 1971
Stock Law.
For 2455
Against 1940
Carried by 515
Amendment No. 1 authorized the
State Legislature to provide pensions
for the worthy blind.
Amendment No. 2 authorized the
State to establish a State bank to
make loans on farm lands. This was
known as the Gardner Land Bank Bill,
and called for an appropriation of
? 1,000,000 for the institution.
Amendment No. 3 prohibited the
manufacture or sale of alcoholic bev
erages in the State, and known as the
State-wide prohibition measure. The
heaviest vote against , the prohibition
bill was polled in the city of Cape Gir.
ardeaQ, but it lost heavily in the coun
try precincts also.
The law forbidding livestock to run
at large passed, due to the fact that a
majority of the farmers living in the
county supported the measure. This
law has been voted upon by Cape Gir
ardeau County on several occasions,
but heretofore has lost by large ma
jorities. Automobile owners passed
the law last Tuesday, it is said. Au
tomobiles who have bumped into cattle,
sheep, horses and other livestock, and
being compelled to pay damages, work
ed for the passage of the stock law.
Several serious accidents have been
narrowly averted in the county during
the past year as the result of machine
bumping into cattle along the county
roads.
M'BRIDE LOSES FINGER
Digit Touches Circular Saw and Is
Clipped front Hand.
William McBride, brother of George
McBride, suffered the loss of his right
fore-finger yesterday morning when
hi;; right hand came in contact with a
large circular saw at the McBride Coo
perage plant. He stumbled and fell,
his right hand touching the saw as
he attempted to recover his balance.
The finger was clipped from his hand,
but at a point above the joint which
necessitated a surgical operation.
H. C. WASEM GOES
TO CONSULT WITH
MAYO BROTHERS
Seeks Aid for Peculiar Con
dition of Stomach and
Bowels.
CAPE DRUGGIST WAS
OPERATED ON TWICE
Rochester, Minn., Surgeons may
Not Agree to Operate
on the Case.
Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Wasem yester
day morning departed for Rochester,
Minn., where Mr. Wasem will consult
with the Mayo brothers, world famous
surgeons, to learn if they can cure
bowel and stomach trouble with which
he has been suffering for the last live
years, by un operation.
Following the consultation with the
two surgeons, they declared when they
left the Cape, that they expect to re
turn within a short time. If the opera
tion is recommended at once, they will
remain in Rochester and will send for
Dr. Paul R. Williams, who will be
present if the operation is performed.
The bowel and stomach trouble with
which Mr. Wasem has suffered for
the last live years, in the last few
weeks has continuously become more
serious. He has suffered hemorrhages
several times and on one occasion, as
he stepped from the door of his drug
store in Haarig, he fainted. He fell
on the sidewalk and was picked up un
conscious. It was several minutes be
fore he was revived.
The cause of his trouble was found
in ulcers that formed at the opening
from his stomach into the bowels
which closed the passage and the
stomach was not properly drained.
lie had an operation performed
which relieved the trouble but for a
short time. About two years ago, he
went to Cairo where he entered a hos
pital for a second operation. The
trouble at that time was much worse,
and the gateway from his stomach vir
tually was closed.
The surgeons who performed the sec
ond operation, cut a new opening from
his stomach into the bowels and tied
the bowel to the new aperture, at the
same time closing the natural opening.
In the last two years, it has been
necessary for Mr. Wasem to be care
ful of his food and never has
been allowed to eat anything but inilk
and soft-boiled eggs as well as a few
soft drinks that are most Jasily di
gested. Mr. and Mrs. Wasem departed on
the northbound Chaffee accommoda
tion yesterday and went on to Chicago
yesterday. They expect to remain in
Chicago but a short time when they
will proceed to Rochester.
During Mr. Wasem 's absence, he has
left the drag store, which he ownes,
in charge of J. A. Bierk, who came
from Farmington a short time ago to
take Mr. D. H. Falmer's place there,
when Mr. Palmer went on the road
for a wholesale drug house.
ELECTION LITERATURE
MAKES HIM "ANARCHIST"
Chicago, Nov. 'J. Citizenship no
longer appeals to Charles A. Filipiak,
one of last year's crop, since he has
been given an insight into the methods
of the American candidate for office.
Campaign literature descended up
on Filipiak in a veritable flood and as
a result he sat down and wrote to some
of the most presistcnt vote solicitors
as follows:
"Please do not annoy me with your
voting circulars any more and kindly
accept my resignation as a citizen. I
will always remain an anarchist."
Copies of the letter have fallen into
the hands of the Federal authorities
and that little sentence about always
being an anarchist probably will re
sult in acceptance of Filipiak's "resig
nation" as a citizen. The courts have
been asked to take away the papers
he was so anxious to get only 12
months ago.
FR. MURTAUGH
TO BE BURIED
ATLASALLEJLL.
Treasurer of St. Vincent's
College Died in St. Louis
Yesetrday Morning.
FUNERAL TO BE HELD
PROBABLY ON SUNDAY
Was 56 Years Old - Bright's
Disease Causes Death After
Long Illness.
The funeral of the Rev. Father
James A. Murtaugh, treasurer of St.
Vincent's College, wiio died earlv yes
terday morning after a long illness at
Mullanphv Hospital in St. Louis, will
be held at ! o'clock tomorrow morn
ing from St. Patrick's Church.
Father Walsh of St. Vincent's Col
lege, yesterday afternoon made an
nouncement of the funeral plans and
there will be a large number of the-
St. Vincentian priests who will go from
the Cape to LaSalle to attend the fu
neral services. The sen-ices will be
hel dat !' o'clock in the morning at
St. Patrick's Catholic Church in La
Salle and burial will he in an old
family lot. where, in conformity with
a request that Father Murtaugh made
before his death, his body w'll be
placed beside that of his father and
mother.
Father Murtaugh was but 56 years
old. Blight's disease was the cause of
his death. His condition vfith that
malady had b?en critical- far several
months, and in recent weeks, the end
had been expected at any time.
Last July when the Cape was in the
center of an intensely hot' wave,
Father Murtaugh accompanied by Fa- j
ther Walsh, we nt to Milwaukee to be
come a patient in a hospital there. It I
was at the same time that the North- j
ern States were enveloped in a terrific j
heat wave and it was believed that the j
U.. f ii-j-kul ,1 ni li I A&:i i 11 I
He survived, however, and subse
quently, when he regained strength,
he returned to St. Louis.
Father Murtaugh in addition to be
ing treasurer of St. Vincent's College,
was assistant pastor of St. Vincent's
Catholic Church. He was well known
in the Middle West as a pulpit orator
and he was the author of many books
on subjects of live interest to church
men. He was born at LaSalle, 111., on Jan.
, 1860. His father was a wealthy
Illinois farmer, and on the latter's
death, Father Murtaugh, together with
several sisters and a brother, who sur
vive him, inherited a large estate.
Father Murtaugh's estate is valued at
between $80,000 and $100,000.
He was a graduate of Niagara Uni
versity, Germantown, Pa., where he
specialized in languages and Bible his
tory. He became a teacher, and when
Kenrick Seminary was established at
St. Louis, he became instructor in
Greek, Latin and Hebrew. His ability
as an orator diverted his efforts into
the field of missionary work to which
he gave 28 years of his life. He was
sent to the Cape five years ago, and
while here, he was prominent in the
life of the city.
'MORPHINE KISS" LATEST
FORM OF OSC ULATION
Chicago, Nov. P. Enter the mor
phine kiss.
It is the secret source, say author
ities of the house of correction here,
of the quantities of dream provoking
drugs that are smuggled constantly to
prisoner-patients in the "dope cure"
ward of the Bridwell.
A prisoner is being weaned away
from the morphine habit against his
will. Some bright day a pretty woman
comes along. He says she is his wife
or his sister or some other near rela
tive. She is overjoyed at meeting her
dear one again and naturally she
throws her arms around his neck, pulls
him close and plants a long, lingering
kiss upon his lips.
The patient shortly afterwards shows
signs of having had access to the "joy"
drugs. The "dope" was slipped to him
in that long, lingering kiss, perhaps
as much as fifty or sixty grains.
i
RETURNS SHOW HE IS REELECTED
I I
- ' - f rfg&Sst -
V - " i
I r'P
WOODROW
ARTHUR STEIN
i
LOSES THREE TOES!
Car Wheel Mashes Them While
He Was Switching 9 Miles
Below Advance.
Arthur Stein, well-known hrakeman
on the Poplar Bluff local freight train,
h;id three toes on his right foot smash
ed completely off while doing some
switching in the yards at Eaglette,
nine miles below Advance, at 11 o'clock
yesterday morning.
He was brought back to the Cape
at 7:o0 o'clock last night and now is
at his home. The condition of his foot
is considered serious and physicians
who have examined the wound told
members of his family that it may be
necessary to amputate part of the re
maining two toes on the right foot.
Stein resides with his wife and three
children on South Ellis street. It was
raining yesterday morning while he
was doing the switching, and he was
riding one of the box cars. He had his
foot resting on the arch-bar, a part
of the brake. On account of the water
covering his foot and the bar, his
shoe slipped and let him fall.
His foot struck with the toes square
ly in front of the oncoming wheel. Be
fore he could jump to save himself,
the wheel had caught him and the car
smashed his toes.
As he was caught by the, wheel,
Stein threw his body out away from
the track, so that he would not be
drawn under the wheels of the car.
He was picked up by members of the
train crew who heard his cries as the
wheel passed over him.
He was taken to Advance, where he
received emergency treatment and re
turned to the Cape last night on the
Poplar Bluff local freight on its return
trip.
It was believed for a time that it
would be necessary to take Stein to
the Frisco Hospital in St. Louis, but
late last night, it was announced that
he will remain, at home and will be
out within a short time.
Mr. Stein is a son of Chris Stein,
who departed yesterday for Montana,
where he will install a new flour mill
built by th Lee L. Albert concern.
WILSON.
GERMANY FOR PEACE
AFTER THE WAR
Bethmann-Hollweg SaysStruggle
Has Been a Lessoa to the
Nations of the Earth.
B-rlin, via Sayville, Nov. '.). Instead
of being a nation of acute militarism
at the close of the present war, Ger
many will u.se all of her influence in
an international league to preservr
peace. Chancellor von Bethmar.-Holl-weg
announced today in a speech in
ihe Reichstag that Germany, like all
other nations, would be determined to
avert war in the future. The blow
that the present European conflict has
given the world, would be an argument
to all nations in favor of arbitration
of misunderstandings, he said.
Berlin. Nov. 0. Confirmation of the
reported death on the western battle
field of Prince Henry of Bavaria has
been received at the War Ofl";ce. it wax
announced today.
Prince Henry, who was a major in
the King's own infantry regiment, was
a nephew of Bavarian King Louis His
death resulted from wounds received
during a reconnoitering expedition on
Tuesday last.
The dead prince was 32 years old
and a bachelor. Last June he was
reported to have been wounded in ac
tion. Boston, Nov. 0. The British steam
er Esneh, of 100." tons, which sailed
from Alexandria, Egypt, Oct. 24, with
a cargo of cotton for Liverpool, has
been torpedoed and sunk, according to
private advice? received here today
from Alexandria. The Esneh, owned
by the Moss Steamship Co., Ltd., of
Liverpool, carried about 15,000 bales
of cotton, valued at $2,000,000, the
greater part of which was intended for
transshipment to this port.
London. Nov. 0. The British steam
er Seatonia has been sunk, the crew
saved and Capt. Pattison has been
taken prisoner, says Lloyds Agency.
The Seatonia left Montreal some
time in October, stopped at MulgraTe
Town, New Foundland, and left there
on Oct. 20 for Barry, Wales. She
belonged to the Seatonia Steamship
Co., of West Hartlepool, England, and
was of 3."33 tons. She was built at
West Hartlepool in 1193.
CALIFORNIA
BY PRESIDENT,
HIM ELECTORA
George
States
President Taft,
Republicans to
tion.
VOTE OF ALL DOUBTFUL STATES
TO BE INSPECTED, SAYS G. 0. P.
President Wilson Carries North
Dakota, New Hampshire, New
Mexico and He May Get Minne
sota by Vote of the SoldiersHas
269 Electoral Votes.
Special Dispatch
San Francisco. Ca!.. Nov. :. Th thirteen votes of California, nee.icd to
ve President Wilson the reniiired mimher or flertit"il l.;i!'ot-; nil! L i-isf
for him. This became an assured fact shortly before midnight when the
Republican IState leaders admitted that Gov. Hughes had boen defeated In
this State by his opponent. SigSfr"""
With only sixty-five precincts in the State missing, the votetonight stood:
Hughes, 4)l,:JvS."; Wiison. 4;4,1!7. The missing precincts are not populous,
but heretofore were Democratic, and the present le:;d of President Wil.-on
cannot be overcome. JfSE8-
New York, Nov. !. The Republican party, with the approval of Charles
E. Hughes, who apparently ha., been defeated for the Presidency by Wood
row Wilson, tonijrht began organiirjr its forces for the greatest leal bat
tle for the presidency in the history cf the country.
G-wge W. Wickersham. Attorney-Genoral of the United States under
President Taft, has been placed in charge of the legal for.es. He lias al
ready been collecting evidence anon wn!l-, will base th" contests in
States giving .-mall Wil.-on pluralities:. An effort will be made for a re
count in California. North Dakota. N"w Hampshire and New Mexi . t!i.
electoral vote of which would change the result of the election.
Mr. Hughes. Chairman Willcox f tno National Republican Committee,
and Mr. Wickersham conferred this afternoon to map out the line of art ion.
The Republicans will charge ciookedness at the polls in the demand for a
recount. It has been learned that th0 Republican National Committee em
ployed detectives to obtain information jn several States. Reports reached
the Republican headquarters ir. advanre 0f the election that fraudulent
methods might be resorted to in rdcr to carry the election in several
States.
These reports, while not announce,! j,v the Republicans, are in circula
tion tonight. The Democratic Nat iora Committee considers the Republican
charges too si'h- to consider. s;:i.I ; oi'licial of that body tonight.
"It is all over but the .diouting." sa , Chairman McCormick of the Nation
al Democratic Committee tonight. ";nd we are about to start the shouting.
President Wilson's re-election i- positively assured."
The Republican headquarters iofuPi to concede Wilson's victory, be
cause the party loaders do not consi(jpr arcPj,t the unofficial returns as
binding.
But the returns from the doubtful States tonight did not stimulate hope
among the. Republicans. North Dakota nas pone to Wilson undoubtedly,
and there is no longer any room for douj)t ah0ut California. President Wil
son has carried that State by at leas r.flOO. Returns from California Iat
tonight definitely : ettleil the long cont;ml0d suspense as to the result of
the election.
West Virginia. .Minnesota, New Hairpjrp am ow Mexico still remain in
the doubtful column. Of these the first three lean toward Wilson. The sol
dier vote of Minnesota is expected 10 swing that State into line for Wilson,
although Hughes is still ahead, but hi, ioa(l is being reduced with the re
turns from every new orecinct.
On the face of the returns tonight. President Wilson will have 2Hf electoral
votes, or three more than are ncce.'j-y to elect.
Other Presidential Elections
That Followed Close Races
There has been four previous presi
dential elections in which the vote was
extremely close and the result of which
was for a considerable time in doubt.
Two of these have occurred since the
country attained practically its pres
ent size and since telegraphic facil
ties became general.
In the election of 1800 Thomas Jef
ferson and Aaron Burr obtained an
equal number of electoral votes, and
the choice of a President was thrown
into the House of Representatives.
Jefferson was elected on the thirty
sixth ballot.
In 1844 the election depended on the
vote of New York, and a small plural
ity in that State decided the contest
in favor of James K. Polk and against
Henry Clay. The loss of the Fre
Soil vote in that State beat Clay.
In 1876 occurred the famous Hayes
Tildeu contest. The first returns indi
cated the election of Samuel J. Til-
IS C
GIVING
L VICTORY
W. Wickersham, United
Attorney General Under
is Employed by
Contest the Elec
to The Tribune
jden, the Democratic nominee, but in
i three of the Southern States South
I Carolina, Florida and Louisiana,
j where "carpet-bag" governments still
remained two sets of returns wetfi
l sent in. one favoring Hayes and one
for Tilden. By counting these three
' States for Hayes, his electoral ve.te
j would bp 1K" to Tilden's 1S4.
Oregon, with three electoral votes.
also sent in double returns, one giving
all three votes to Hayes, the other giv
ing Hayes two and Tilden one. To ac
cept the latter result would give Tilden
1S5, and Hayes, even with the three
Southern States, only 184.
The Senate was Republican and the
House Democratic, and therefore the
houses could not agree on a manner
of counting the vote. The riarti.-san
feeling throughout the country became
?o intense that alarm was felt for the
nation's peace. The calm and pacific
Continued on page 3.
