Tirsl
Maui Count) Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
4
Baost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., JUNK 23, 1916.
NUMBER is
MS
TRAIN JUMPS TRACK
5 KILLEDJ1ANY HURT
Engine And 3 Cars Of Laborers Pile Up In Gulch
On Hana Plantation Worst Dis
aster On Maui In Years
DEAD
Tokushigi, locomotive fireman;
Murai, cane cutter;
Ah Sing, cane cutter;
Filipino cane cutter (1) ;
Filipino cane cutter; (2) ;
DYING
Nishiyama, locomotive engineer.
HANA, June 23, 11 a. m.: Five are
dead, one is dying, 27 others are badly
hurt, while a dozen or more are
are suffering from minor injuries, as
the result of a .wreck on the railroad
of the Kaeleku Sugar Company, which
occurred at 4:30 o'clock . yesterday
afternoon.
A gang of between 40 and 50 Japan
ese, Filipino and .Portuguese labor
ers, returning home from work in the
Mokae section of the plantation be
yond Hamoa, were without a sec
ond's warning dumped into a Strug
gling mangled, screaming mass of
humanity upon the rocks at the bot
tom of Haneoo gulch, when the en
gine left the rails in crossing the 25
foot trestle, and went over taking 3
cars with it. .That more were not
killed outright is the remarkable
feature of the accident; but as it was
scarcely a man escaped without inj
ury.. Within a few minutes after the
disaster occurred, a relief train was
sent from the mill to the scene, and
a force of volunteer helpers began
the task of separating the wounded
from the dead.
Church Becomes Hospital
As (lie injured were removed, they
were rushed to the Catholic church,
which was thrown open as a hospital,
and where Dr. Lltchenfels with a fonn
of volunteer assistants strufifded for
hours to relieve the suffering. This
was in a measure accomplished hefore
the power hoat Makalwa, from Kahu.
lul arrived at 2 o'clock this mornlnR
with Dr. Osmers of YVailului, and a
Big Preparations For
Carnival At Ball Park
Booths are now going up rapidly
at the baseball grounds for the grand
carnival of fun to be had Monday,
July 3rd, and Tuesday, July 4th. Tlw
dance pavilion Is already In place and
the "House of Fun" already has its
stage up. A surprise Is in store for
those fortunate enough to be In Wal-
l.ilr,, An 11nn,lav Tu1r fl a It VlIlS
1UI,1 Fli .iiiriiviii,, u j " " ' , .... . ......
l.nnn n htt-mirnH dia a trr-aml tinmHn I
f tioa H lw.,-HI!,ia will nreende I
the opening of the carnival.
Chairman J. Garcia, of the general
committee, returned from Honolulu
this week, and made arrangements j
for this feature. It has also been said
that Professor Zacapita
Egypt ban beeii engaged for the oc
casion. This gentleman Is a most
wonderful fortune teller, and bears
the very highest of recommendations
from royalty of Europe, Asia and Af
rica. Trofessor Zacaplta will prob
ably arrive one day before the big
show opens, and now the committee
is planning a most extravagant booth
in which to house him.
SNEAK THIEF GETS SIX MONTHS
William Kai, a young Hawaiian
vagrant, who has been hanging ab
out town for several weeks, was sen
tenced this morning to 6 months in
jail for the larceny of a suit case and
suit of clothes belonging to Solomon
Maalea. The property was taken front
the Queen lodging house, and was
afterwards located in Kai's possess
ion. , ' M
The police r.Gieve that Kai is guil
ty also o" robbing the home of Vetle
A. Yetiesen of a lot of edibles and
ntliL-r nionertv. recently, anil ot a
nuifber of other similar instances of
snctik thievery. The young fellow is
sail to hail from Hilo, and to bear a
generally unsavory reputation.
MR. AND MRS. SEAKBY
ENTERTAIN
The beach home of Mr. and Mrs.
Vfilllam Searby was the scene of a
iifrettv dance last Saturday night,
tiSe guest of honor being Mr. Robert
ltugbes. His close bachelor friends
had been bidden to the festivities.and
ech of them was asked to Invite a
ng lady. During the evening, a num.
U r of married couples dropped in and
a Lout forty participated in a very hap
pr evening, indulging in dancing. Ile-
I ijrslimcnts were served uuring me ev
ening and before the guests departed,
!! gainerea in a merry circle io
; "Wedding Bells are Kinging" and
's a Jolly Good Fellow", varying
last refrain so as to include Loth
s Walker and Mr. Hughes.
badly needed supply of surgical sup
plies. After this assistance arrived
all tlint could he done under the cir
cumstances was finally accomplished.
The injured men are suffering from
all manner of hurts fractured arms
and legs, lacerations on all parts of
heads and bodies, and Internal injur
ies. Practically all of the white women
of Hana are enrolled as nurses for
the injured. Fortunately a trained
nurse from Honolulu Miss Pollst
er, happened to be visiting at Nahl
ku at the time, and her services
have been invaluable.
Cause Unknown
What caused the engine to leave
the rails is not known, but the nc
cident could not have happened at a
worse place. The fireman, Tokush
Ige, and the cane cutter Murai, were
pinned beneath the wreckage and in
stantly crushed to death. The China
man and the two Filipinos died aft
er being removed to the temporary
hospital. ' Nlshiyama, the engineer,
who Is believed to be fatally crushed
and burned, has been running a loc.
omotive for the company for 13 years
and was known to be a reliable and
careful driver.
Investigation Being Made
Sheriff Clem Crowell and County
Attorney Bevins, who arrived this
morning, are Investigating the acci
dent. A coroner's inquest will he
held this afternoon.
Offers Of Aid
Proffers of any kind of assistance
possible have been received by the
plantation management from F. F.
Raldwin of Puunene, H. A. Baldwin of
Pala, and H. B. Penhallow of Wailuku
as well as from the Kahului Railroad
company, but nothing more can be
done at present than has been. Dr.
Osmers left here about 9:30 o'clock
this morning on his return to Wailuku.
Plantation Managers
To Try Steer Roping
There will he some class to the
amateur steer roping contest at the
Kahului race track on July 4. Thus
far the list of entries contains the
names of two plantation managers, a
ranch manager, and a head lima.
The are-.-Frank F. Baldwin, manager
of the II. C. & S. Company; H. B. Pen-
hallow, manager of the Wailuku Sugar
Company
S. A. Baldwin, of the Hale-
"kHa Ranch;
and Oeorge Wilbur of
the Wailuku Sugar Company.
Angus MsPhee Is authority for the
statement that all four of these men
are confident of their prowess with
the lasso, and are going after the $l!ifl
direct froml'P now ?" Tplny 1 Vu!:
rM'Jie window, ill ftil i lien; inn
be more entries, says MsPhee, hut
these are sure. The. only difference
In the conditions under which these
amateur cowboys will contest is that,
they will not be reauired to tie their
steer, but simply to rope him and
bring him to post
NAVAL VISITORS ENTERTAINED
AT LAHAINA
In honor of the officers of the suh-
marino fleet, on the eve of their de
parture from Lahaina where they
have been holding battle practice for
several weeks, an elaborate luau and
dance was given on Monday evening
at the Hayselden place by the officers
of the 2nd Battalion, 3rd National
Guard of Hawaii. Major W. Hoffman
Young had general charge of the en
tertainment, which proved a most
thoroughly enjoyable affair In every
way. The submarines have completed
strenuous but highly successful
courhe of practice.
MARRIAGE LICENSES.
June 17 John Hililea. 17; Hawaiian;
Wailuku: to Annie Nawai, 20; Ha
waiian; Wailuku; Ceremony by
Rev. L. B. Kaumeheiwa.
June 19 James Kamakeie, 26; Haw
aiian : Olowalu: to Sally Nakal, 20;
Hawaiian, Olowalu. Ceremony by
Rev. Sam Kapu.
Robert Edwin Hughes. 32; Amer-
Ican.of Puunene; to Alice Thayer
Walker, IS; American, of Paia. Cere-
money by Rev. A. C. Bowdish and
Rev. R. II. Dodge.
John Figeroa, 27; Porto Rican; Wai
luku: to Isabel Riveira, 15; Porto
Rican. of Wailuku. Ceremony by
Rev. Father Justin.
.a
With the arrival of the schooner
Melrose from the Sound on Tuesday
evening Willi a cargo of abo,,t one
million feet of nor'west lumber for
the Kahului Railroad company, new
price lists were sent out noting an ad
vance of 5 cents per thousaud feet.
Pleads Guilty Of
2nd Degree Murder
Waikapu Slayer Saves Neck Grand
Jury Soon Pau No Arlion In Fcr
reira Matter Trial Jury Next Week
The grand Jury, which convened for
the June term cf circuit court at ln
lmliiH on Wednesday, finished its work
the same day and was excused for
the term. Three true bills were re
turned. During the session County
Sheriff Clem Crowell was before the
inquisitors. It is understood In con
nection with the irregularities which
led to former Deputy Sheriff John
Ferreira's alleged resignation. How- J
ever, no other witnesses were exam
ined in Wie matter and no indictment
was returned.
The following charges were return
ed as true bills:
Narclso Tolarion, murder.
Juan Josaldo, assault with a weapon.
M. Kammo, embezzlement.
In the case of Antonio Gillen, the
Filipino charged with subornation of
perjury In connection with the testi
mony In the Tolarion murder case, no
true bill was found.
Murderer Pleads Guilty
When arraigned for plea on Thurs
day morning, Tolarion. the Filipino
murderer pleaded guilty to murder in
the second degree. He will bp sent
enced next Monday. This is the case
of the Filipino laborer who shot and
Instantly killed a fellow-countryman
onApril 9. and wounded a Filipino
woman, who was the occasion of the
f dispute which led to the killing. As
the murder was practically unpro
voked, according to witnesses, the
murderer doubtless considers himself
lucky to be allowed to plead guilty on
lesser charge. The crime was commit
ted in the Filipino camp nt Waikapu.
Juan Josaldo, Porto Rican, will
maek plea on Saturday to the chatge
of having chopped up a Mexican at
Makawao, with a cane knife, as an in
cident to consuming a jug of wine.
M. Kammo. was a collector for J.
Onishl, of Kahului, and is charged
with having failed to account for
$R?1.30 of his employer's money. He
will plead later.
The trial of the criminal calendar
will begin next Monday, at which time
the petit jury has been summoned for.
This jury is made up as follows:
Trial Jury:
Joe Perreira, Joseph K. mmmesiey,
Akl Tom. Manuel Asue, John M. Mede-
iros, F. P. Uosecrans, Chas. K. har
den, M. T. Lvons, Frank W. Burns,
Joseph Welch, J. J. Corell. E. J.
Walsh, II. McCuhbin, R. 1 . Hose, i.eo.
N. Steele, B. II. Thomas, W, L. Har
ms, F. G. Duart, Wm. L. Hardy, Geo.
H . Dv1nn, Geo. H. Kaunloku, Joseph
Whiteford, E. H. Pieper, A. V. Marciel,
John Nelson.
The Calendar
The following cases appear on the
calendar for disposition dring the
present term of court:
Criminal-Jury.
(continued on page i
Tenders For New Hotel
Soon To Be Called For
With the granting of a bar privilege.
hy the liquor license hoard on Mon
day, to the Grand Hotel Company, ail
doubt that the hotel is to become a
reality vanishes, according to state
ments made by directors of the new
enterprise. A meeting of the officers
of the corporation has been called for
tho purpose of taking steps for calling
for tenders for the construction of the
new hotel structure, and the contract
will be awarded as soon as possible.
The company has secured a lease on
the lot mauka of the Lyons property
which will also be used in connection
with the hotel.
As soon as the contract for the
building is awarded, A. F. de Souza,
who will be manager of the hostelry,
will leave for the coast for the pur
pose of purchasing the necessary
equipment. lie also hopes to do some
advertising for Maui and incidentally
make some arrangements for tourist
connections with mainland bureaus
and hotels.
HOLY GHOST FEAST AT PAIA
DRAWS BIG CROWD
A crowd estimated at at least 1500
persons attended the Holy Ghost fest
ival at the Paia Catholic Church last
Saturday evening, and an equally large
gathering again on Sunday morning.
People came from all parts of Maui,
and the affair was a most pleasant
social as well as financial success. In
spite of the fact that a thousand or
more were fed at the free luau, the
receipts from various sources amount
ed to about $!i75.
Much of the credit for the success
of the entertainment is due to the
hard work of the committee composd
of Manuel Nunes, Jr., chairman, J. M.
Feiteira, vice-chairman, John M. Me
deiros, secretary-treasurer; C. S. Cap
ellas, and J. F. Souza. Mrs. James
Shaw, who had principal direct ion of
preparing the luau was highly congrat
ulated on her success with this feature.
New Hotel Coinpany
Gets Liquor Permit
Hana To Have No More Retail Saloon
Opposition ToPauwelaWhoIesale
lfi Licenses Granted
One license less than at present, Is
the net result of the meeting or the
board of license commissioners for
Maui, held on Monday of this week.
After Jnly 1 there will be 16 places for
the authorized sale of liquor instead
of 17. There will be no retail saloons
In the Hana district. Ah Ping not
having applied for a license at. Kipa
hulu. and I,. Y. Aiona's application for
renewal of his Hana saloon license
heing refused. The thirst of the dis
trict, however, will be assuaged thro'
one wholesale liquor establishment, a
4icense for which was granted to J. A.
Medeiros.
In the town of Wailuku an addition
al license was granted, this being to
the Grand Hotel Company, which is
shortly to build at Main and Church
streets. An application for a first
class saloon license by Antone Garcia
was refused. In all other districts lic
enses were granted as they exist at
presnt.
Hana And Kuiahs Protest.
Strong petitions of protest came be
fore the hoard from Hana and the Ku
laha HniUu-Pauwela districts against
the issuing of licenses. The chief op
position in Hana was to the present
retail saloon. A petition signed by-
some 50 names protested against any
form of license, as did a letter from
John Chalmers, manager of the Kaele
ku Sugar Company, and letters from a
number of other persons.
A petition signed by abont 60 home
steaders and others of the Kulaha
section, opposed the granting of a
new license to the Kaupakalua Wine
and Liquor Company for Its whole
sale store at Pauwela, while a petition
of about the same length was for it.
F. G. Krauss appeared in person and
spoke strongly against the issuance.
R. A. Wadsworth. representing the
company, urged the granting of the
license on the grounds that without
the Pauwela store as an outlet, for
the winery, that institution must be
forced out of business, and that such
an event would be a heavy blow to
some two or three hundred Portu
guese small farmers of the Kaupaka
lua district who own stock in the
wine company, and depend upon it
for the u'ilization of their grape crop,
their chief means of livelihood.
In Wailuku, A. Pombo, proprietor of
the Aloha saloon on Market street,
narrowly missed losing his license
when a motion to refuse his applicat
ion and grant that of Antone Garcia
was voted upon. D. II. Case and C. D.
Lufkin supported the motion, while D.
C. Lindsay and W. F. Kaae opposed.
The deciding vote by Chairman T. B.
Lvons was against the motion.
The Grand Hotel Company was
authorized to open a bar in temporary
quarters pending the completion of
its .hotel building.
I,. R. Mathews, of the Alexander
House Settlement, made a verbal
protest against granting any liquor
licenses in the town of Wailuku. No
protests were made against granting
any of. the applications except those
already noted.
' -tt
Maui County Fair
To Have Baby Show
Committee Decides Upon This Feature
Alexande House Settlement
May Handle It
A baby show is to he a feature cf
the Maul County Fair, to be held in
Wailuku November 30, December 34.
This was decided upon at the meeting
.of the executive committee held on
Tuesday night. Just how the show is
tr he handled was not decided, nor
was a committee appointed to take
charge of the feature. It was suegest-
ed. however, that the Alexander House
Settlement would he the proper Instf
tution to handle it. and between now
and the time of the next meet in?
something definite will be learned In
this respect.
Manufacturers Want Space
The reports of the various commit
tees indicate that most of the depart
ments are going to be fully up to what
hnd heen exnected of them, for the
reason that popular interest Is very
keen on the matter of the fair. One
interesting report was made by Wm.
Senrbv who has charge of the agri
cultural machinery division. It is
probable, said Mr. Searby, that sever
al firms will bring gasoline tractors
to the fair, and the agents have asked
for from 5 to 10 acres of land on which
to demonstrate the capacity of their
machines for plowing.
Other kinds of farm machinery will
be disnlaved. it was stated, as will a
number of modern lighting plants for
country places.
AMERICAN SOLDIERS
RILLED BY MEXICANS
War Now Seems Unavoidable National Guard
Troops Mobilized European Allies
Trying To Avert Break
EL, PASO, June 23 Word from Chihuahua reports that Cun. Tre
vitio commander of Mexicans has issued warning that any mow by
Americans except towards border will result in attack similar to that of
Carrizal.
WASHINGTON, June 23 Advices from Mexico state that change
of attitude of the country towards United Sates, due largvly to Germans
who have heen writing in that city for months with aim to bring ahout
war between countries. Asserted Germans in Mexico are being accord
ed unusually good treatment and are receiving .best consideration at
every point.
CHIHUAHUA, June 23 Wagged and weary, U. S. troopers reach
prison in Chihuahua. They will be interned waiting decision of the
dc facto government as to their status as captives. Vastly outnumbered
in fight at Carrizal.
Mormon scout reports death of Capt. Chas. Boyd and 1st Lt. Hen
ry Adair.
SAN FRANCISCO, June 23 Second dock rupture lias hit city
sudden blow. Longshoremen of 1'acific Coast go on strike again be-cauL-
employers refuse to discharge non-unionists . Maritime interests
seriously hurt. Owners' association declare they soon will be able to
handle all cargoes while even United States flt suffers.
HONOLULU, June 23-Frcsh air camp for poor of this city
to be opened Monday. First-batch of vacationists leave here on Mon
day early.
Spreckels estate sells all tValty holdings in this city. Biggest
property ileal in history of Honolulu is consummated and involves
$350,000. Transaction includes Merchant strtet block. Theo. II. Da
vies and Bishop & Co. are purchasers, and w ill make vast improve
ments .
SAN ANTONIO, June 23 Mexicans blamed for battle with 10th
Cavalry the other day. Straggler from 10th cavalry- reaches head
quarters of Pershing wjth fresh details of engagement. Americans
were tricked and ambushed by Mexicans. Called to parley, while
enemy secretly made preparations to capture or kill entire American de
tachment. First intimation of attack came when machine guns purred.
Guns were well concealed by Mexicans. At first attack cavalrymen
ordered to dismount and prepare for skirmish.
Attack by Greasers was unprvoked by cavalrymen.
WASHINGTON, June 22 T welw Americans known to be kil
led in fighting between 10th Cavalry and Mexican troops at Carrizal
late yesterday. Battle does not change Administration's iolicy.
Washington still waits for more definite reports. Fight is regarded as
an incident of subordinates. Dr. Ancndondo, Mexican ambassador,
handed Secretary Lansing a communication from foreign office, an
nouncing clash of troops. Says de facto governmji nt finds it difficult
to understand why the Americans are so distant from their base
M easure of drafting national guard into service now being rushed.
Resolution authorizing Presi lent to draft guardsmen at once into reg
ular ranks drawnup and submitted to Secretary Baker this morning.
C hairman Hay of house committee on military affairs, will press the
bill for immediate passtige tomorrow.
F.L PASO, June 22 Mexicans claim their lorses less than Americans.
Both commanders of detachments killed. Also Capt. Lewis Morev of
10th U. S. Cavalry. . . '
Al II1-.NS, June 22 Greece forced to accept allies' demands.
Premier Skouloudis and cabinet resign. Troops guard citv but neonlc
are calm.
MADRID, June 22 German
and officers have disembarked with
to King Alfonso.
BhRLIX, June 22 Russians repulsed north of Trzewolka
pushed back on both sides of the Turia river.
PARIS, Jnue 22 Teutons gain front lii;- of Verdun trench.
CHICAGO, June 22 Ilawaii'sG. (). P. men fi-'ht to retrain.
cgauon noio. congressman jucMnlcy, holding Rice s proxy,
Ill f
i erruory s cause.
HONOLULU, June 22 Prices of stocks break a few bits. There
are practiea'ly no shares for sale.
Following cable received from Kuhio yesterday: "Bill making
payment to counties by public utilities commission, approved by Pres
ident yesterday. Infective immediately". It means $15,000 payable
from franchises which will go to city instead of territory as heretofore.
FL PASO, June 22 American troops and soldiers of Carranza
met in battle south of border. No official details yet received. En
gagement took place near the Santo Domingo cattle ranch, about (0
miles south of the border. Attacks were a surprise. Americans said
to have been ambushed by Mexicans. G.-ncral Felix Gomes, one of
the Mexican commanders, killed by negro troops of 10th Cavalry. Mex
icans suppressed news of battle. Forty Americans said to have been
killed and some taken prisoners. Mexicans say General Gomes sent
aide-de-camp with Hag of truce to American cavalry commander warn
ing him not to proceed, and telling him to return to American camp at
once. The American oflicer refused, saying he was under orders to
proetced. Mexicans blameAmcrieans for fighting.
LONDON, June 22 Teutons claim check to Slav advance on
eastern front. Berlin-says Germans have succeeded in staying trium
phant march of huge Russian masses . Many Muscovites captunvd. Re
port of furious fighting along all hues. Petrogtad account of big offen
sive says that Rusians have taken 172, -IN- pi doners, and quantities of
stores in drive.
WASHINGTON, June 21 Diplomatic and other official cir
cles here today are stirred at news that representatives of allied
European )owvrs are understood to be bringing strong power to bear
on Carranza. They are taking the stand that Germany is seeking to
foment the war and inllame the Mexicans with the view of preventing
the United States from gathering the trade formerly controlled by
Germany inMexico, South and Central America .
National Guard waits for marching orders. War department is
considering graduating '.-nior class at West Point immediately for
immediate commission and service. Inn rest now centers on probable
id ion of border troops would take in event of war. Considered likely
(Continued on Page Two.)
submarine arrived .it Cnh,
confidential letter, from the kaiser
and
del-
.... ...
helps
