(i
Seen on the Side
d I.-D. Editorial Page Feature
?Light, Bright and Unique
Sidint o nd
Haskin's Letters
Always on The T.-D. Editorial
Page and Always Interesting
?'ith YEAR
VOM .MK 00
N I >1 IIKU IT4
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, JUNE 23, 1916. ?FOURTEEN PAGES.
WK.VI'IIKIl r-' A IR
IMfiK III ? 'Virv
PRICE. TWO CENTS.
CARRIZAL FIGHT DUE TO UNPROVOKED
ATTACK ON U. S. CAVALRY BY MEXICANS
CARRiZAL CLASH i
MAY NOT OF ITSELF
PRECIPITATE WAR
Incident Admittedly Aggra
vates Gravely Strained
Relations.
OFFICIALS STILL HOPE
FOR PEACEFUL OUTCOME
Carranza Almost Persuaded by
European Influences Not to
Persist in Defiant Course.
T VENTS MOVE SWIFTLY IfKRF.
itoth Military nnd Naval l'i*j?arn?
I Inns for Possible Rr^afc fin
K(invar<l Rapidly.
?WASHINGTON1. June JC.?Apparently
? -<th the United Statin government ami
tr,? de facto authorities of Mexico hope
t treat the clash at Carrizal yesterday
.*> f fiii Incident Mjjernvatlnif srravely
strilnod relations. but iiot of i f = ** 1 f
lively to precipitate pencral hustili
t This fact stood nut to-night as
thfr most prominent of thr* day's de
velopments in the Mexican situation
So fit r a> the Washington admir.is
? -itlon If concerned. no final decision
n >.f> reached tin ill Provident Wilson
fir ? received ;i report on the flsrht from
American army officers All Informa
>n so far haw <???!<? from M? xtTin
itirec<s.
Events moved s'*iftiy here during
i>e '!.?**, and preparations by the "War
Pepartment for possible war with the
Kovernment went forward
r-i.p!'lly. At the siri.e time, there came
Int." 'hat General Camm/i hsid heen
a! in-.Ft peraanded by European In
fluences not to persist in a course cer
t11 to br'.np ??.ii conflict.
Many ofTV.alH here have not aban
doned hope of a peaceful outcome, al
though they admit that ear-h day since
the present friction he ?n n has (?efn
new clouds pathcr. Their hopes against
it-ir are based solely on the report*
that have reached them indirectly that
farranzfi government Is in<-?it'.e(l
t reek a peaceful way nut.
iit:rrsn to oi?:ntT cicaiu.k
OF MIKIIH A.V A(.i;Hi-:SM(lX
Mthough they had only Mexican re
511s to go on. officials to-day did not
f stion ?ti u ' ?? v. < ii l ? that many Amerl
.'ii cavalrymen wort- killed, wounili*'!
r.r raptured. In view of the orders
(; ven American < otr.manders in Mex
|i o, hovever. they refus.e to credit 'ho
? -arye tha: The commander of the
. *.tr"meat was the a2pressor
When General Pershing's report ar
rives It will he cat cf'Jlly studied, nnrt
of the fitst actions probably will
I f. jo demand the release of the Ameri
. ;rif in'.d t<> have been captured. Tt
' is r.ot probable there will be any im
n.efj'ito move ac a re?ult of the inei
<kr.t on Sunday at Mazatlan, where
Me.vlf.an soldiers made an unprovoked
q-r.-.ck on American bluejackets, ae
?-'.rdiriK to an oflicial report to the
.v'r.vy Department to-day. but should
;a:i*ral Pershing's report on the Car
r./.si fight show the Carranza forces
to 'nave been the aggressors there
r fo. dn opportunity to explain the two
rif.er.ts will be given the de facto
f.-.vernment before any drasilc step
!i he ordered by President Wilson.
Both rases have heen officially culled
? i the attention of the United States
i the Caironza. KOVcrnment's .".mbas
j...f!or-de.si^-nate. Ho presented to Sec
r. tary Lansing to-day a mildly worded
t?!f irram from Mexico City relating
! .... tr.le of the Carrizal fighting given
f. hy Mexican officials. No details
. a sent, but an alleged admission
in Interpreter with the captured
Americans was quoted to blame the
\ merles n commander for the trouble.
Secretary Lansing made nn reply to
?lr Arredondo, as he had no advices
of his own.
, v^-T WOU!> OK IMTKII STATKS
ui'Fonn i?iiot i:i:i>i><;s
?Vhlle this fresh cause for appre
.,-nsion was occupying ofllclals, n cir
,-liar note addressed to the South and
( antral American diplomats by Secre
tarv Lansing in connection with tho
MrXlctin situation was made public .at
state Department. It accompanied
cooles of the note to General Carranza.
distributed as a matter of information.
lf.d was accepted by tho diplomats as
the la9t word of the United States be
fore proceeding with any steps which
,-arranzn's course might make neces
.sriry.
Th!;i oonimunlcation was issued to
? ?(. f.atin-American diplomats, it Is
? ? rterstood. to reassuro thorn as to the
iMic.v <"'f 'he United States, and In an
pffort. to keep intact the Pan-American
jr.derstanding for which the admiuls
? ??V.ion has labored. European repre
riitatlves will not fail to obtaln'copies
0f the document, and it is aimed
partially at anti-American propaganda
li\ influences which are said to he try
i't" to promote hostility between the
fvn countries.
General Carranza took pains to see
jjiflt hie charges of bad faith against
the United Slates were widely clrcu
lated here, in Latin-America and tn
Eu'rope. Secretary I.anninp felt it ad
visable to counteract this. lie would
nor. riisctiss his reasons, but it is known
the State Department has received
"(Continued on Second Pago.)
Scenes About Armories as Richmond Troops Prepare for Service
-.rfzm/m ??>rv?^r^o \ ? " J TSBrag" ~ ""
<>uri Drill in Front of Howitzers'
Armory.
Company R. Hirhmoml (?rays. {.cur
ing Armory for 1'rsirtlc"* March.
BANKERS WILL DISCUSS
CLEARING OF CHECKS
RpM'rvo. Itonrfi's < 'ountry-Whle I'lan
t<? Ke Main Topic* of Virginia
Association.
MKKTl.N'Ci LAHGEIiY ATTKNDICD
Juliet! II. Hill, of Richmond, Is
Klccteti Member of General Nomi
nal inp Committee of Next Conven
tion of the American Association.
W. Meade Addison
Will Be Vice-President
tSpeclul to The Tlines-Dli?|tntcli.?
OI.I) I'OIM', VA.. ilunr, U2 VV.
Meade Aildlson, rukblrr of I he l^lrst
National Hunk, of Klclimoiid. prac
tlcnlly In unopposed for Ihf offlrf of
vice-president of the Vlri;in1n Ilnnk
fr?' A ocla 11 on, to mjcrrfd U. II.
S|itncfr, of Honnokr, ?ho ?trill lie
plfclrd president. V. Vnlden. of
Furmvllle, protiabljr ciImo will be
nominated for the vlo*-prf?ldfiic>'.
Mr. Addition nun nominated for
the vliT-prrsldcncy nt Inst y?tnr'?
convention, hut declined I lien to
rim nRiilnal Mr. Spencer. IIIn nom
ination to tlint ollloe to-morrow mid
hlft election on Saturday are now
accepted u* rertnln. Ak vlci-prcul
dent he will be the loiclcal candi
date for the presidency In 11*17, uk
the uskoclntion (or yearn ham fol
lowed. practically without a break,
the practice of elvlni; (he hlarhcKt
olllce to the vlce-prc*ldcnt of the
preceding year. The lant president
from lllchmond wnn ThomaN II. Mc
AdauiN, vice-prcitdciit of the Mer
i'hnntx' .National linnk, who uhn
elccted in IDIX
[Special From a Staff Correspondent.J
OLD POINT, VAJuno 22.?Country
wide clearing: of checks as promulgated
by the Federal Reserve Board in its
order of May 1, lo bn put into operation
! on July 15, whether the plan deserves
! the approval or condemnation ?>f the
bankers of the State?this is ?h? ques
tion that promises to overshadow till
others in the deliberations of the Vir
ginia Hankers' Association, which met
to-day at the Chatnberiin Hotel in
twenty-third annual convention.
The check-clearing question had no
j place In the official program of the
i opening day, which was devoted to
! reports from the mujor officers and to
two addresses not strictly of a banking
nature, hut It loomed large in the in
formal discussions of the lobby and
balconies. While national bank mem
bers of the association were disposed
; to Kivc the collection plan their in
| dorsc-ment, delegates representing the
| smaller Stat? banks looked with mis
i giving on many of Its features, and a
i sharp debate is expected when the
! question comes up for consideration,
j Emissaries from the St. kouis con
! ference, which on June 10 condemned
the Federal collection plan, distributed
| copies of the condemnatory resolutions,
which declare the plan to be "economi
j rally unsound and, in its last analysis,
i prejudicial to the best interests of the
! business." An attempt will be made
| in commit the Virginia bankers to the
| same view when the convention goes
' into the consideration of new business
! at the final session on Saturday.
President E. Tiffany, of the \*ir
I <inia Rankers' Association, In his
! annual address at the opening session
j to-day, while emphasizing the gravity
1 (Continued on Ninth Page.)
. . - sKiwaoi' aub . />.=*?. yx-w ?&ilftk1}>
v . ?
Guard Mount n( Grays' Armory.
Richmond Soldiers
First Under Canvas
at Camp H. C. Stuart
Company B, Grays, Sleeps
Under Arms---Artillery
men Expected To
Mor row Night.
Company B, of the Richmond Grays,
slept under arms last night at Cump
Henry Carter Stuart, having the dis- j
Unction of being the first organization
of Virginia troops to receive orders !
from the Adjutant-General to begin
active mobilization in preparation for j
an emergency call to the Mexican
border. The company, tinder command
of Captain William A. Stack, marched
to the Fair Grounds yesterday after
noon about 2:30 o'clock.
Beginning on Monday morning with
a peace strength of sixty-five men, the
company during three days of recruit
ing was enabled to leave its armory
with 102 men and three, officers. Three
wagons, to bo used for military pur
poses, were carried as a part of the
organization's regular field equipment.
The task of recruiting the. command to
a total of J50 enlisted men, to comply
with orders issued by Colonel W. J.
Perry, commanding the First Infantry,
will be vigorously prosecuted at the
mobilization camp.
SHOWING OF COMPANY
IS I1I<>II!<Y OltATIFYIXG
"The showing made by Company B
in adding to its peace strength since
the President's mobilization orders on
Sunday night,"' said Adjutant-General
Sale, "is highly gratifying to this of
fice. It shows the spirit of the Vir
ginia Volunteers and of the rank'and
file of the State's citizenry. Patriotism
in Virginia is the real tiling. We will
have no troublo contributing our share
of assistance to the government."
Drill work among the units of the.
Grays' Battalion has been pushed
steadily since the beginning of mo
bilization, and Major Blight's men al
ready have reached a high state of
efficiency, both in discipline and the
execution of military maneuvers. En
thusiasm has permeated the atmosphere
around the armory. Haw recruits have
been quickly whipped into shape. Of
ficers regard the men in the best, of
shape to begin the more active and
extended operations at the mobilization
amp.
UI.I 13S MAY GIST i:\DEK
CANVAS SOMES T1MF. TO-DAV
The ilichiuond Light Infantry Blues'
squadron of cavalry, the newest addi
tion to the State's quo'.i of troops for
an emergency call, and now the only '
body of Virginians in that branch of :
service, may go to camp in Sherwood
Park some time to-day. Major Bowles, !
i commanding the squadron, marie ap
plication yesterday to Adjutant-Gen
| eral Sale for Immediate transference
to the mobilization cump. Otlicers of
ilie command think better work can l>e
i ;trcompllnhed in the larger theater of
action.
General Sale's action in the matter
of ordering them out will depend en
tirely upon the state of completion in
which he flnds> the camp ground. Work
has been pushed vigorously in the Held
where the artillery and the cavalry
will encamp, and if it. is nearly enough
completed, the squadron will join ?o
! day their comradcs in the Grays' at the
| scene of active preparation for field
j duty.
The results of the first day of re
: crniting at the Blues' Armory were
I highly satisfactory. Twenty-four young
| men, conforming to the high standard
j of efficiency maintained by the organ
| i/.ation through all the years of its
| existence, wero added to the rosters
of the various troops. A majority of
them had served the organization be
fore, in the days when the command
was set out in the military records as
infantry.
WORK OF TRAIMXi
HKCIlllTS JS I N IJKIt WAY
Only the best class of men are re
quested to join the squadron Those'
of them who have families dependent
upon them for support need not apply
I for admission. Good men are accept
able until each of the troops reach the
maximum strength of 100, but officers;
| feel that sacrifices on the part of women
and children, who may become charges!
! on the community, are not warranted 1
by the International situation. Tl>o
squadron now has Its peace strength 1
of sixty-tlve men to a troop.
Active drill was begun yesterday.j
War recruits were divided Into squads I
(Continued on Third Page.). i
Howitzers Tnlco Good Care of Their
Horses.
LOCftl MAN8FSCTURERS
ASKED TO RAISE 110,000
.Jolm Kerr liranch Pledges $30,000
to Hospital, If tteinninder
Is Made Up.
SUM OK $80,000 NOW NEEDED
Campaign to Secure $250,000 for
Memorial Comes tn Close To-Mor
row Night. and Subscriptions lo
Date Total SI70,0211.
At a meeting held in the auditorium
of the Chamber of Commerce* yester
day afternoon, John Kerr liranch
pledged himself to raise $.'<<>,000 of the
^SO.OOO needed in compb-.te the fund
of S230.00I) for the enlargement of the
Memorial Hospital, if 3*10 manufac
turers of Richmond would jointly
pledge themselves to raise the remain
ing 150,000.
Twelve of tho twenty manufactur
ers present accepted the challenge, and
wlll\meet this morning at 9:30 o'clock
in the otllce of Mr. liranch. Merchants'
National Bank ltuildlng, to district the
town and set u> work in automobiles
to secure their share of the funds. Mr.
Branch said lie wanted to be Included
in the manufacturing list also.
The meeting was presided over by
Coleman Wortham, president of tho
Chamber of Commerce. Considerable
feeling was shown at the slowness with
which the people of Richmond are re
sponding to the call. With but two
days left to raise 5S0.000. or fail, the
campaigners who have worked hard
during the past two weeks emphasized
the struggle that is ahead to prevent
failure.
Ml SIM>S IMtni'OMTION.
di:ci,a it res ?a n x i ; v
If was the sense of the meeting that
the manufacturers of Richmond have
not responded as they should, possibly,
it was said, because they had not been
properly approached regarding the
project. W. T. Dabney, business mana
ger of the Chamber of Commerce, in
? pening the meeting, said that the
workers were going to the manufac
turers with a straightforward eeonoml
al proposition?the health of the labor
of Richmond, lie said that out of .'S00
manufacturing concerns, only eight
have made contributions of Si 00 or
over.
"It is essential that the laboring
classes bo protected," said Mr. Dab
ney. "We have allowed the negroes
of Richmond to live In unsanitary sec
tions of the city, and our children even
now are breathing the fetid air of
Jackson Ward, as they come in con
tact daily with our negro servants.
We are not going to try to carry the
proposition to the manufacturing con
cerns. however, from a humanitarian
standpoint, but from the standpoint of
\ cool business proposition. We arc
going to show them that it means dol
lars and cents In their coffers."
SBVKH AI j lllfi DONATIONS
PI.P.DOKI) IIV OFFICERS
It was announced that the American
Locomotive Company had telegraphed a
subscription of SS.noo to the fund. This
big corporation, In its message, said
that It could well afford to expend this
i mourn" toward conserving the health
of its employees.
Thomas T.. Moore, general chairman,
announced that bis mills, the Dunlop
Mills and the Oallego Mills, would each
give $1,000 to the fund.
W. R. Williams, of the Richmond
Forcings Corporation, announced that
he would ask his company to glvo
(Continued on Third Page!)
IIOTKI. IIIJKOKR HOOF TO-NI?IIT.
Dlnncr-suppur, music, dancing. C:30 to 12,
-AO V.
Howitzers Cooking Meals In Hear of
Armory. j
Mm [iolra ~ I
i STAND BY GERMANSj
("?iven Moral Support in Opposition ,
to United Stntrs Troops Ite
moiiilng in Mexico.
i
HAND OF VON HINTELEN SEEN"
Names of F. Stallforth. Andrew Me
loy uiu] David Lamar, of Now 1
York, Also Mentioned?Subjects of
i Kaiser Got Special Consideration. .
I
"WASHINGTON, June 22.?Advices re- j
: cclvctl here from Mexico allege that
> the* Herman ropresentalives there have |
j encouraged General <"arranza and th.?
I oflicors of the de facto government in i
j their opposition to the United states
i troops remaining in that country. The
I form ot" encouragement was Haiti to
have been mural rather than material.
!
The reports further declare that
German citizens in Mexico are being
treated with great consideration, their
property not being molested. Some
Americans have taken advantage of
?the favors accorded German subjects
! by placing their property in tlie hands
| of German friends fipon leaving Mexico.
Thi.s information was disclosed by
a competent authority in connection
with Information concerning the ac
tivity in ? Mexican affairs of Captain
Franz von Ttintelen. now under Indict
ment in New* York for conspiracy to
foment strikes In American munition
plants, and under arrest in England.
VOX lll\TKU:\ MOST .4CTIV12
IX MlvVlCAX AFFAIRS
Von Rlntelen is known by the au
Ithortty mentioned, aa well sis by gov
ernment oflidals. to have been most
active, in Mexican altalrs. His activi
ties began at the lime Villa and Car
; ranza were at odds, and when lluerta
I went to the border to direct a plot to
i gain control of the government.
Von Itintelen to-day was described
j as having been prompted by threo
; motives in endeavoring to stir up
' trouble between the United States and
j Mexico, although primarily his aetivi
, ties were said to have, heen directed
! against the entente allies and not
j against the United States.
j The information obtained leads of
1 flciais to believe that Von Hintelbn
j thought that by starting a dispute he
; tween the l.'nit<Ml States and Mexico,
i munition shipments from America
j would be stopped; that the United
' States would bo too busy to pursue the
i submarine controversy, and that the
allied navies would be prevented from
securing fuel oil and gasoline from the
Mexican fields. More than 00 per cent
of the oil used <n the Kritish navy
comes from Mexico.
It ua.i pointed out to-day that at no
time would the United States have
failed to press its demand in regard to
the conduct of submarine warfare, even
if a state of war existed with Mexico
As for exportation of oil from tha
! Mexican tlelds, it was said to-day that
j in the event of war between the United
I States and Mexico some means will be
found to prevent the plana of Von
I Uintelen from being realized.
OTIIF.lt NAM KM MKXTlOXfcM)
IX IDXXHtTlOX WITH CIIAIKiKS
The names of Federico Stallforth, ot ?
j New York, a former banker in Mexico
; and Andrew C. Meloy, also of New
York, are mentioned In connection with
; that of Von Klntelcn. Stallforth, who
; was said to have been associated with
? Von Itintelen in Mexico, was called he
' fore the Federal grand jury in New
! York to testify as to his activities.
; Von Ttintelen, while in this country
I maintained headquarters in Stallforth's
: otliee. lie is understood here to have
; denied any connection with Mexican
; Intrigues, but was remanded to Jail
overnight for contempt for refusing to
answer certain questions before the
Jury.
Meloy was also associated with Von
itintelen in Mexico. He was indicted
in New York on the charge of having
obtained a false passport for Von
Itintelen.
Another name mentioned with Von
Ttinielen's was that of David Lamar
sometime* called "The. Wolf of Wall
Street," and indicted with him. Lamar
is said here to have, obtained a large
sum of money from Von Rintelen to
be used in promoting certain plans
| regardlnu McxKo and dock strikes in
j New York. So far as Is known in
' Washington, Lainar performed no ser
j vices conimonsurato with the sum of
money ho is nald to have received*
STRAGGLERS TELL
STORY ON ARRIVAL
AT PERSHING CAMP
Forwarded to Funston, Who
Refers Charges to War
Department.
RE-ENFORCEMENTS SENT ?
TO REMNANTS OF TROOP H /
Trevino Threatens to Resist Any
Movement by U. S. Troops,
Except Toward Border.
HIS GIVES VERSION" OF BATTLE
Serpntoeii Captured Troopers Taken
in Custody to Chihuahua City
and Interned.
Orders to Rush
Militia to Border
WASIUXCTON. Jnof 22. Orders
wont from the War Deportment to
nlnht to General flurry, at Chicago,
fomr.:miilinK the Central Department,
ii 11 (I (ieiierul Hell, at Snu FrttucUeo, <
i-omntnndlnK the Western Depart,
nient. directing that a? noon nn 5,000
I national gunrdamen linre lieen mus
tered luto the Kederal >m1ce in
j either department, they shall be
dispatched to the border.
Secretary linker to-nlKht tele
graphed the State fiovernon asking
eaoli hoir nnnn the National Guard
nrgnnlxntlona In hln State called out
by President Wilson would be ready
for niunter Into the Kedcral service.
SAX ANTONIO. TKX., June 22
Stragglers from the Tenth/Cavalry de
tnchment that was In the tight at
Carrlzal arrived ?it General Porshing'a
headquarters to-day and told him that
the ttRhttng began with an unpro
I voiced attack on the Americans at tho
j conclusion of a parley with the Mexl
i can commander. Goneral Perching1
, transmitted their story to General
Funston to-night, whp Immediately re
ierred It to the War Department.
While General Funston awaited tjia
! rvport froin General Pershing: that
would hear otit the American varelon
| of the Carrlzal fight, ho and his aisff
worked at high pressure, perfecting
military details*.
The men were unable to tcU any.
thins regarding the casualties or even
the later phases of the engagement.
They retreated during tho fight. be
came separated from their command,
making their way hack to the Ameri
can lines. Two troops of tho Tenth
Cavalry, Company C, commanded by
(,aptaln Charles Boyd, and Company K,
commanded by Captain Lewis Morey,
comprised the detachment that arrived
within a.mtlo of Carrlzal at 7 A. M.,on
Juno 21. They had stopped at OJo do
Santo Domingo on the previous night,
resuming their maroh toward the east
at 4 o'clock tho nest morning. From
their position in front of Carrlzal, tho
commander of the detachment, believed
by General Pershing to have been Cap
tain TJo.vd, since he was senior in rank
to Captain Morey. sent forward a
Mexican guide to secure from the com
mander of the Mexican gurrlson their
permission to pass through the town '
gomez combs out
TO MEET AMERICANS
General Gomez sent back word by the
guide thnt the Americans might pass
. through if they would consent to a.
parley. Without waiting for the com
j ma ruler of the American force to reply,
j General Gomez, accompanied by an aid!
appeared, and the American officer rodo
i forward to talk with him.
While they were talking, the men
, said. rhe Mexican troops moved for
! ward ir. force and deployed In such
, manner that there appeared danger of
, ?he American force being surrounded.
; one of tho men who had been holding
the horses of the officer, and the man
I who had ridden forward with him,
i said the American officer seemed to
protest against the position which
Gomez's troops were tnklng. A fow
minutes later General Gomez rode off
toward the end of the Mexican lln?,
nnd immediately after petting there
the Mexicans began fo attack, sweep
ing the American line with a machlr.?
gun.
It was not until then, according to
st r.i gfrlers, that the American coni"
manders gave orders for both troops
to dismount and return the Are.
| General Pershing said that before
the Americans left on the expedition
both he and Major Evans, of the Tenth
Cavalry, cautioned the commanding*
officer to he careful not to provoke a
' fight.
, General Pershing had received no
I news of the two squadrons of tho
Eleventh Cavalry he sent otr -'hi*
, morning u. get In touch with the aops
that were at Carrizal. ? -j
i Staff oflicers here calculated that tho
relief party should reach tne rr rnant
of the detachment late to-night or to
morrow morning.
General Funston appeared Impressed
with th>? sincerity of the story brought
in by the stragglers, but s.tid that it
w<iiiid not ('.mac him to send any new
Instructions to General Pershing or to
?? 'i'" v.i 'ivj
ft.
