mmmmmmmmmm''mmm
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIG
EXT
HT
&P
enm
. c 2
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. 1I.-NO. 243
I'HIIiADELPntA, JNLIIDAY, JUNIS J3, 1010.
Cortninnt, 1010. nt tnr I'cbuo Lcriii Co h tin t.
P1UCE OJB CENT
DOUBLE-QU
NEWO
CK TO FRONT
TO GUAR
?
OFFICERS OF 10TH CAVALRY
IN FIGHT WITH. MEXICAN AT CARRIZAL
f
Loft to right: Lieut. H. Abbey, Jr.,
Capt. S. D. Smith, Lieut. J. P.
Richmond, Lieut 0. C. Troxcl and
Capt. McP. Rutherford. Two of
fleers were reported killed, but
their Identity has not been definite
ly settled.
:' '' 4-.'' ','.''- '. " ?"-',,?,.?. K-7? ,' ' ' .' ' ;, V:v,.' ' .' ' -jst! ' "; ' ' A
' -. ? ' ' ' ; ' ''-, - . . ' J&sk '''
' ! ' ?' Vo!t 1 .. ' ! . s "s.. . . .a ' " f,rj ' !n
DIPLOMATS WORK
TO KEEP U. S. AND
JEXICO AT PEACE
; Latin-Americans and Span
ish .Ambassador Bring
Pressure to Bear
-avatt r.A-RT? Axry.A's TunvR
mis
I' Bv JOHN EDWIN NEVIN
.WASHINGTON, Juno 23. A determined
tffort Is being mailo today by certain of
r-
ujd xaujfuiiui itau uiinuiiitiiu 111 itatiiub-
.ton, assisted by the Spanish Ambassador,
fSenor Don Juan niano j- (.Sayanagos, to pre-
jent war between the United Stales and
KMIexleo. This wa3 ndmltted today, both at
kjht .Spanish Kmbassy and by Dr. Don
Rafael Zaldlvar, the Salvadorlan Minister to
Hjthls country. So far nil of the, efforts to
;brlns nbout an adjustment are centred In
' .'Mexico City, where pressure Is being
brought to bear upon the. Carranzlsta Gov-
, .rnment. The United States has not yet
been approached on' tho subject and, ac
cording to Doctor Znldivar, cannot bo until
?tCarrnnza nets, as the note of Secretary
IjLahalng, delivered last Tuesday, places the
jneit Initiative In the hands of the Mexican
MOovernment,
DKVK!OIMKNT.S 1JXPECTKD.
That Important developments are ex-
''peeled, iowever, was , shown by the an
nouncement of Ambassador Klano that he
had canceled his plans to proceed to New
port tomorrow to onen the summer embassy
I there, and will remain In Washington for
-the present. At the' same time It was
ald at the Spanish Kmbassy that yesterday
Spanish citizens of Mexico City cabled King
Alfonso of Spain asking him to use his
jjLjgood offices to prevent war between the
ft United States and Mexico. So far as Is now
j (known here, no action has been taken on
tfthls Proposition.
'l,' Most 0f the iJitln-Amerlcan diplomats
Lr out of tho city, but It was reported
hre today that Dr, Domlclo da Oama. the
Brazilian .Ambaesador. who is In Long
txiranch, and Dr, H; S. Noan, Argentine
Ambassador, also absent, mav return to
K.thls city shortly to initiate any movement
&jUQQklnir tnivanl .alnl .1 i .
fpOMible after the Carranza reply to the
ifjateat American note Is recelyed.
"WHITE HOUSE SILENT.
Bo far no nronnsa? nf mm) i 1 1.. iiau
tn brought oniclally to the attention of
l united States Government. Both at
i White House and at the State Denart.
lament ofllclaU declined- to dismiss what
,tlon, if any, would be. taken on such
pr proposition, f made. In this connec-
tltl n..omcIals say they gravely doubted
LT tha 1ust'0 at Issue are of a
F rt 15lt VW b? mediated.
a VnlUd States ai the de facto govrn-
: Kn cltlzeng and nnirr... .i ,
3 Int... 4 ,. - aoml rtliiKnvaH
s Mvlaers. ,. , .
B- ,n'oplnlon' W0"W lend themselves to
Ration, It t ray beIUf tha porapUte
:Brt7,.r. nral Carranza. of the
naclpte enunciated la the Prsldiaf note.
to8a ,, Fm s9wt faittaa Qm
WASTE NO TIME
MOBILIZING,
THREE DEPARTMENTS TOLD;
ALLIES' MUNITIONS
SEIZED
Cabinet Commands Generals of East,
. Central and West to Rush All Avail-.,
able State Troops as Soon as
Possible
Trainload of War Material Destined to Germany's Foes
Commandeered at Shamokin and Shot to Fort Worth.
Censored Message Tells of Bandit Raid
WASHINGTON, June 23. Following today's Cabinet meeting
orders were sent to General Leonard Wood, commanding the Depart
ment of the East; General Thomas F. Barry, commanding the Cen
tral Department, and General J. Franklin Bell, commanding the.
Western Department, to send all National Guard under their juris
diction to the frontier "as soon as they are ready." The Guard will
go forward in units without waiting for completion of the individual
State mobilizations. It is understood here that General Wood and
General Barry have been urged to get the New York and Illinois)
Guard under way immediately if possible.
These orders mean that instead of the militia being held in mo
bilization camps in -the various Stales they will be rushed to the
border immediately upon being mustered into the service of the Fed
eral Government and will be whipped into shape in the field instead
of in camp.
Officials interpreted the orders to mean that the general situa
tion along the Mexican frontier was more critical than the Adminis
tration has cared to admit. It is understood here that only such
units as are below peace strength or are short of necessary equip
ment will be held in the mobilization camps in the various States.
At the Cabinet meeting reports from General Funston showing
the immediate necessity of strengthening his border guard at many
points were received. He appealed for cavalry and for experienced
infantry, artillery and signal corps units which'can be used at cer
tain points, thus relieving regulars for any .general offensive move
ment that may be planned. It was decided that the commanders of
the three departments within which the Guard is mobilizing should
be given a free hand to send the troops along Generals Wood, Barry
and Bell will be the judges of whether the troops are in shape to take
the field and will be expected to lose no time in starting them south.
Funston will designate" their stations.
Reports that orders were about to be issued to the entire Atlan
tic fleet to steam to Mexican waters were denied by Secretary
Daniels.
COLUMBUS, N. M.t June 23. Mexican bandits are reported to
have invaded the United States 50 miles west of here. The report
stated they were driving off horses from Parkers ranch in Playas,
Valley, southwest of Hachita, N. M. Loss of life or fighting was not
mentioned (Deletion by censor,).
SHAMOKIN, Pa., June 23. Sixteen carloads of ammunition
consigned to New York port for the Allies were requisitioned in the
Northumberland yards today by United States army officers. The
cars were immediately rerouted'to Buffalo, whence they will' be sent
to the arsenal at Forth Worth, Tex,
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., June 23, General Ftmstqn Is convinced
. M - ''.
. CeUaae4va fti, 5Twe. "cruMa"5,w
J .,
TIM
E GERMAN
ES ATTAC
NUN
Marshal Von Mackensen Re
ported in Command of
Teuton Forces
AUSTRIANS SURROUNDED
TltK HAGUE. June J3.
Huge movements nf German troops from
the western to the eastern theatre of war
are under way. Within the last two days
moro than 100 troop trains have passed
through Afx-ln-Chapelle. bound from tho
western front to the eastern front. They
are being used to stem the great Ilusslan
drive, which threatens tho Austro-Hunga.
rian army in Gallcla.
I'KTIlOOnAD. June i'S. Three German
armies, made upllargely of troops from the
western front, are on tho offensive on n
60-mllo line In the region or Kovel, Vladi
mir Vollnck and rinkul. In an effort to
stem the Ilusslan advance and save the
Austro-Hungarlan army.
It Is reported that Field Marshal von
Mackensen, regarded as one of the most
brllllnnt soldiers In the Germany army, has
been ordered to take charge of the Austro
German operations In Volhynia and Gallcla.
Although tho right Hank of General
Druslloff's Russian armies Is meeting with
serious resistance, the left wing, in
Bukowlna, Is moving forward rapidly, hav
ing advanced more than 35 miles since the
capturetif Czernowltz on the 17th.
General I'llanzer, the defender of Czer
nowltz, and a large section of his army, are
reported to be surrounded and In Imminent
danger of capture. South of Itadautz Austro-Hungarlan
troops are said to have
crossed the border Into Itumanla, where
they will be interned.
At the northern end of the line, along
the Dvlna. artillery duels continue.
NO QUAUTBfl GIVEN
No quarter Is being asked or given by the
Russian 'troops of General Ilrusiloff In one
portion of the great battle still raging be
tween the Styr ond the Hug, in Volhynia,
tonight's official bulletin on the campaign
asserts.
"In the region of Radmlesto," the report
says, "on the Stokhod, west of Svidnlks and
east of Vorbptchlne, extremely violent light
ing continues. We made no prisoners. This
U explained by the exasperation of uur
troops, who refused quarter to the Ger
mans, who had been employing explosive
bullets."
It (s believe I here lothli.g iut a miracle
can avert the destruction of General I'llan-
Continued on raze live. Column Two
History in Pictures
In the whole uorUT lil.tory portenlou
and nrrrulHr cnt haf purr twu m
rrouded Into brief marf of time ii. In (Ui
ut frw month. Word, urn paMtrful, uiien
lrautti arriurd. tu rfford mid urrr thi
uituurr or rporh.muliliic utlloni hut more
powerful and uomlrrful tluu MoriN Ix tha
lullurnr of ulrturrx.
TO.MOKUOWS TKIMII' MOVKJIKNTS
wilt i-onttltutt u UUtorj-uijkln unit In
I'hUaUluhU and IVnn.jlianla. A rompUl
plr tor tul rrrord of thru Important bupixii.
Out ulll Bt war lu Saturitij'
EVENING LEDGER
(One ctnt.l
EXTRA
REMNANT OF (J. S. FORCE
AT CARRIZAL REPORTED KILLED
EL PASO, June 23. All that wore left of Captain Boyd's cor-'
ngeotts troopers who fought their wny out of tho Mexican trap at
Crmiznl hnve been killed In the giny hills between Ojo Dcrrcndos nnd
Snn Tittls, according to a report that, reached Fort Bliss today, shortly
after receipt' of General Pershing's fh'3t officlnl version of the Car
rlsttl fight.
PERSHING'S REPORT OF ATTACK RECEIVED IN WASHINGTON
WASHINGTON, June 23. General X'erBhlng's report on the
Carrissai battle has jUbt been received by the War Department.
NO HALT IN MT. GRETNA MOBILIZATION
HAIUsISBURG. June 23 Orders of Secretary of' War Jli1-r-tlirtt
troops be rushed to the border will not cause any dison'Mt? nn"itT
of plans to mobilize at Mr. Gretna. At the office of the Adjutant
Gcnoinl it was said that Scereary Baker's order simply means that
as soon as a regiment Is organized and equipped it "Is to bo srnt for
ward without waiting on other units of a biirtntlo or division.
JAMAICA RACING RESULTS
l"list race, 2-ycar-oltls. selling, $500, 5 furlongs Cheer, 103, Tap
Inn, 1 to 3," and out, won; Solvcig, 104, Lyke, f to 1, d to C, 1 'to 3,
second; Bright Star, DO, Shilling, 20 to 1, 0 to 1, !i to 1, third.
Time, 1:01. - ' '
FORD WILL NOT DISCHARGE VOLUNTEERS
Reports printed In Thursday morning newspapers ti the effect that henry Ford,
the Detroit automobile manufacturer, had served notice, that employes of his plant
who went Into the military se.rvleo would thereby lose their places were emphatically
denied. Investigation of tho report revealed that It wan untrue.
BETHLEHEM STEEL CO. WILL HOLD ilOBS AND PAY WAGES
NEW YORK; .'flln'eJ Directors 'of tho Bethlehem Sfiie!" Company have de
rided to grant leave of absence, with full pay, to employes who tiro members of the
National CiUttrd, called out for Mexican service. '
HARVARD ANNOUNCES GIFTS OF $1,3.1.1,28:1
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., June US. Gifts amounting to 1,34-1,283 Ui Harvard Uni
versity have been announced by President Lowell. He awarded 1134 academic degrees
and 12 honorary degrees.
WOMAN I. W. W. IN MELEE; ONE MAN KILLED
VIRGINIA, Minn., June 23, One man was killed and two wounded hi a fight
here between special police and I. V. W. strikers, who were on their way to picket
the Alpena mine of the Oliver Iron Mining Company. More than 50 ehuts were fired,
some of them by a woman armed with a repeating rifle.
LOWER CALIFORNIA MAY ASK TO JOIN U. S.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., June 2.1. A report that Governor Esteban Cantu, of Lower
California, Is preparing to secede from Mexico and may urjie thu United States to
admit Lower California into the Union was brought here today by Joaquin Villalobos,
an Americanized Mexican, who hns just returned from that region. Cantu several
days ago issued a proclamation that In the uvent of war between the Uidted States
and Mexico Lower California would be. neutral. High olllcers of Cn lit if a strong army,
Villalobos said, understood that a proclamation of Independence was scheduled to
tullow.
WILSON MONEY REDUCES HUGHES ODDS ON CURB
NEW YORK, Juno 23 In tho betting on the Uroail Street Curb the odds on
Hughes have dropped from 2 to 1. the prevailing rate since Monday, to a to 5 and
then to S to 5. Wilson money in abundance was offered at 1 to 2, and after a wuger
of $10,000 on Hughes hud been placed at !i to f. the supporters of the Republican
candidate wanted something: closer to oven money. Only u few Mnall bets were
made at 8 to E.
JERSEY LEGISLATURE TO MEET ON HOSPITAL PLAN
TRENTON, June 23. Governor Fielder will call n special session of the Senato
to convene nest Tuesday at 10:30 u.ni. to confirm formally the names of thu mem
bers appointed by him some time ago to serve on a commission for bettering the
condition of the mental defectives of the State. Tho commission was empowered to
expend $150,000 for enUn'cint' tho insane hospital at Morris Plains; but, though named
last July, had, by ai oversight never been confirmed by tho Senate, u legal necessity.
GERMANS DEMAND SWISS PERMIT EXPORTS
BERNE. June 23.- Federal Cotmsolor Schultuess has announced in Parliament
that Germany demands the Swiss Government peimlt the exportation of cotton and
foodstuffs collected In this country by German ugenls. If the demand Is not com
piled with Germany will prohibit thu exportation to Switzerland of coal, lion nnd
other materials, which would bring Swiss industries to a standstill. The Swiss Fed
e'ral authorities have usked for time to loply, and are sending a delegation to Paris
to confer with representatives of the Entente Allies regarding the situation.
FRICK DONOR OF $250,000 EDUCATION FUND
PITTSBURGH, June 23 At a banquet last night Judge Joseph Bufflngton. of
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals, announced' that Henry Clay Prick Is tho
donor of the $250,000 funa fo the benetlt of the public schools of this city. It also
vas announced that the committee hud decided to name the fund the Henry Clay.
Flick Educational Commission of the City of Pittsburgh, and that Mr. Flick had
also decided to give the annual income of $12,500 for five years from the fund.
COMPLAINT BUREAU WILL PROTECT HEALTH OF CHILDREN
A citizens' complaint bureau, organized to work against conditions unfavorable
to the health ot children, vr opened today at the headquarters of the Child Fedeta
tlun, 1524 Chestnut street. It invites complaints regarding the physical welfare
of boys and glrU and promises to lemedy bad conditions wherever possible. A letter,
telephone call or postal ca-il addressed to the Complaint Bureau, the Child Federa
tion, 1524 Chestnut street, from any private citizen will be sufficient to start an
investigation of any evil Involving juveniles. The Child Federation is an organiza
tion supported by business men, educators and others banded together for .the
preservation ot child life.
BIG BRITISH DRIVE PREDICTED BY SURGEON
NEW .YORK. June 2J "EnsUind has 4.000.000 men In northern France and
will begin tne greate&t offensive of the war as soou as the result at Verdun Is
determined." ald Dr. Frederick C. Jacobs, of Chicago, today. Doctor Jacob's lias
i e turned ;o this couu'iy utUf spending a year at a British base hospital at Btaples.
Two million, five huudrea tt ousand British soldiers in France have seen no fighting,
according to the surgeon. Hit belief tliat a great uew offensive la plcnned is borne
out by the fact that both the British and French, are; erecting' hundreds ot new
base hospitals. There have been 45 hospitals established near l'pres tho last tew
months.
TROOPS READY
IF RUSH ORDER
TO DUTY COMES
Quick Summohs to Other
Troops Makes State
Guard Hopeful
PARADE THIS AFTERNOON
Men Can Break Ranks and En
train Quickly, Their Officers
Say
Route of Farewell Parade
of First Brigade, N. G. P.
Form at Broad and Diamond
streets nt ! p. m.
March south on Broad street to
Morris street, where briRadc forma
tion will bo nbnndoncd nnd regi
ments return to armories in regi
mental formation.
Mayor Smjth will review line at
City Hall.
Brit-. Gen. Wjlli-m G. Price, Jr.,
in command, with IIOOO men, com
prising 2d, 3d and 1st Regiments and
Philadelphia battalion of Cth Regi
ment, in line.
Orders Issued by tho War Department nt
Washington to Major Ciencral Leonard
Wood, commanding the Department of the
East, directing him to BcndUo the front at
once tlie National CSuard units In his dis
trict as rapidly as mobilized, aroused local
guardsmen to highest pitch of excitement,
this afternoon. The probability that the
entire Pennsylvania division, which is with
in llcuernl Wood's Jurisdiction, would be
diverted from Mt tlretna and transported
direct from the vnrldus regimental head
quarters toward tho border within a fevr
hours was freely discussed among tho men,
and the officers themselves were no less en
thusiastic over the proopect of Immediate
ncrvlee.
While-' Brigadier General Price and the
other commanding officers said they were
without olllclal information of tho Govern
ment's change of planB, they expressed
themselves as prepared to respond .'on In-
Continued on Face Four. Column Tm
PEACE WHEN JOE -
IS CRUSHED, SAYS'
CZAR'S MINISTER
Allied Soil M.ust Be Cleared
of Germans, Sazonoff.
Asserts
HAILS U. S. FRIENDSHIP
By WILLIAM PHILIP SIMMS
Copyrlnlil. mill, fjj- the United Tress.
CopirlKhtnl In Great Ilrltnin.
I'RTROGRAD, June 23.
Pence must come only when Allied soil
Is swept clean of the enemy and Prussian
militarism forever crushed, S. D. Sazonoff,
Uusslnu .Minister of Foreign Affairs, some
times called "the pillar of the Triple En
tente," told the United Press, in an ex
clusive Interview today.
Minister Sazonoff had Just returned from
the Russian front. In a private audience
he outlined Itussin's attitude toward the
peace talk current In neutral countries,
especially lu America.
"Germany," said the Foreign Minister,
"set upon us without warning, Now, hav
ing elgnally failed to beat Kurope Into BUb.
mission and finding her Intended victims
getting tho upper hand, she covers her face
with the mask of piety and endeavors to
throw upon the Allies the blame for con
tinuing the war. Such a procedure Is ah
open avowal ot her own weakness and an
attempt t hide her own unenviable situa
tion a fact which I believe the wprld will
soon realize If It doesn't .already,
"Peace talk now Is doubly futile, Ger
many assuredly has not won the war.
Hence, she 3 not In a position to say any
thing. We cannorsay yet that we are the
victors, so. peace suggestions are un
friendly to us.
"Germany's power Is already waning.
The strength of the Allies is increasing, as
is proved by the dally events In the fight
ing at Verdun and In the advance on the
Ilusslan front, as well as by successes nt
the class of the Skagerrak naval battle and
of the victories in A'a. winor.
"The war can end but one -way.
Jl
18
That
Continued on Pajw To. Column Onj
THEWEATHER
There Is a quiet determination about the
boys In khaki who are preparing for their
little trip to Mexico. They have llttlfl to
say, for their business Is a little sterner
than words. In a few hours they will start
for the base, where the finishing touches
will be put on. The element of fear cannot
be dlfccovered anywhere about the local
armories, and many express a desire- for
quick action.
The man whp Is regulating the weathtr
has risen to the occasion nobly, and It look
now ax though they will march away to
morrow amid a burst of sunshine.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicmity-Fair
tonight; Saturday increasing cloudy
ntss: not much change in temperature,
ytntle, westerly winds, becoming vart
able. '
COST AND FOUND
UOLD WATCH UH. UJ' W Wf 5W
Ue, usrv4 B. on bk. twtwetn 5131 WU
But Bd ImiwrUl Ttie.itre. HjturJii' l.li,:.
K.r5. lUlorn ttSsai Wteut
nm at J.dt; Ut&rul mnwpflj
Other Lot cl Vmmti Ai i Y Si
