ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTII YEAE
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FIJI DAY MORNING, JUNE 2?, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 3G
Ail
L JDLJCLi
TROOPERS
SAY (MEM,
APFf
UNPROYKH)
-7
AVIVMIH aj.yj.ft
Carrizal Clash Very Grave But Hardly Cause For Hostilities STRUGGLES!) IF
TENTH REACH
PERSHING BASE
WASHINGTON
AWAITS REPORT
. OF INCIDENT
russian drive seems
STOPPED BY GERMAN
AND AUSTRIAN MOVES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON'. June 22 One fact
stood out tonight at the close of a day
of many developments in the Mexican
iritis. Apparently both the I'nited
States government and the de facto
government authorities of Mexico hope
to treat the clash at Carrizal yesterday
as an incident aggravating gravely
Mra'tied relations, but not of itself
likely to precipitate general hostilities.
So far as the Washington adminis
tration is concerned, no final decision
can be reached until President Wilson
lias received a report on the fight from
American army officers.
Events moved swiftly here during
the day. Preparations by the war de
partment for possible war with the
.Mexican government.- went forward
without interruption. At the same
time, there came hints that General
Carranza had been almost persuaded
by Kuropean influences not to persist
in a course certain to bring on a con
flict. It is known that many officials here
have not abandoned hope of a puceful
outcome although they admit that each
day since the present situation has seen
new clouds appear. Their hopes
against war are based solely on the
reports that have reached them indi
rectly that the Carranza government is
inclined to seek a peaceful way out.
The Carrizal incident, of course, now
overshadows all other developments.
Although they have only Mexican re
ports to go upon, officials do not ques
tion statements that many cavalrymen
were killed, wounded or captured.
Whatever the facts may prove to be
when General Pershing's report arrives
i; is certain that no steps toward re
prisal will be taken at least until that
report has been carefully studied.
One of the first actions, however,
would be to demand the release of the
Americans said to have been captured.
Neither is it probable there will be any
immediate move as a result of the in
cident Sunday at Mazatlan, where Mex
ican soldiers made an unprovoked at
tack on American bluejackets, accord
ing to an official report to the navy de
partment today from the commander
of the gunboat Annaiolis.
Both cases have been officially called
to the attention of the I'nited States
by the Carranza government's ainbas- !
sador-designate, Eliso Arredondo. lie !
presented to Secretary Lansing today !
a mildly worded telegram from Mexico
'ity, relating substantially the tale of
the Carrizal fighting given out by the
Mexican officials on the border last
night. No details were sent, but an al
leged admission of an interpreter with
the captured Americans was quoted to
blame the American commander for the
trouble.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The Germans and Austrians in Vol
hynia are vigorously on the offensive
against the Russians and seemingly
have stopped for the time being at
least, the Russian drive westward.
Along the Stokhod river west of the
Styr in the region of Sokul and still
farther west around Mylsk sanguinary
engagements are in progress.
In these encounters the Russian war
offices says the Germans and Austrians
have been repulsed while Berlin de
clares that on both sides of the Turia
river and southward from Sviniaukhi,
to Grochow, the Russians have been
driven farther back.
On the Stripa in Galicia, the Rus
sians have taken portions of the
trenches of the Teutons near Gaivor
onka and farther south in Hukowinu
have driven their forces farther south
ward and captured Radautz. about 30
miles below Czernowitz, and taken
more officers, men and guns.
From north of the Pripet marshes to
the region of Riga, the Germans again
have opened what apparently is a gen
eral offensive, heavily bombarding
Russian positions or throwing violent
infantry attacks against them.
On both sides of the river Meuse, in
the region of Verdun and to the east
of the fortress in the Woevere at the
foot of the Meuse hills, the Germans
are heavily bombarding the French.
Especially heavy are the attacks
against Hill 304 and Le Mort Homme,
northeast of Verdun, and northeast of
the fortress around Thiaumont, the
Vaux wood, Chapitre, and Fort Laufee.
In a counter attack the French have re
taken most of the trenches the Germans
captured Wednesday night between the
Fumin wood and Chenois, northeast of
Verdun. The Germans neur Givenchy
captured British trenches, but later
were driven out, suffering heavy losses.
The ultimatum of the entente powers
to Greece has been yielded to by the
Hellenic kingdom. The demands in
clude complete demobilization of the
Greek army, the formation of a cabinet
neutral to the entente, the holding of
new elections, anu tne reconstruction
T
T
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KL PASO, June 22. Juarez tonight
was practically evacuated by Carranza
troops. The commandancia was almost
deserted, the wireless station was dis
mantled, the collector of customs and
General Francisco Gonzales, com
mandant, had left for the interior, and
only a few scattering military patrols
were in evidence in the streels. In ad
dition, a large part of the civil popula
tion, taking their household goods with
them, left (luring the day for the" south.
Throughout the day troop and supply
trains pulled out of the Mexican Cen
tral station bound southward ostensibly
to join General Jacinto Trevino. com
manding the Carranza army of the
north at Chihuahua City. Several of
the trains, however, were halted with
in a score of miles of the city to await
further orders. Some reports indicated
from
HALF BREED GUARD
STARTS BORDER CLASH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire 1 verely wounded in muscles of right
VILLA 1NJUAREZ
SKY MEM
IS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Tex., June 22. Francisco
Villa has been in Juarez several
times in the last four weeks, accord
ing to reports received by agents of
the I'nited States secret service here
tonight. This story was given some
support by the arrival in El Paso yes
terday of Mrs. Lez Villa, who subse
quently was deported to Mexico The
same reports said that Villa was seen
in a'yiublic plaza in chihuahua City
anont tnree weeks ago, wearing
Vw. .fntwl-i m t a Tl,a l!-..l, ... 1. .. I 1 1UI I Wl.ll IIIH tillllOilill rlltrlll
already has resigned and another-is in j Washington that the administration,
process of formation. i reasoning fromhe information at hand,
I whs inclined to place the responsilul-
ity for the Carrizal dash yesterday
j upon the subordinate commanders of
; both forces, that a part at least of the
! command evacuating Juarez was to be
returned before daybreak.
I Evacuation of border points by Car
i rancista garrisons had been general to-
- day but in most instances the troops
i have been concentrated a few miles i
' south of the boundary awaiting further
1 G Cf
W UT IBED
NACO, Ariz., June 22. William
Humphrey, an American-Mexican, em
ployed as watchman at the Naco wa
ter plant, uas exonerated of criminal
blame late today by a coroner's jury
for killing early today one I'nited
States soldiers and wounding five
others, one seriously. Humphrey tes
tified he could in t see the uniforms
of the infantrymen and had believed
them to be bandits.
The soldiers were fired upon by
the watchman as they approached the
water plant at 2 a. m., preparatory to
changing 1 lie guard there. Before
thfy could make known their identity
the following casualties had resulted:
WALTER K. POWELL, private.-was
shot through the chest and abdomen.
He lived an hour.
JOHN G. ROGOYA. private, shot
through the neck, right shoulder, right
arm and right thigh, condition serious.
R. N. MARTIN, first sergeant, flesh
Wounds of back and shoulders, not
serious.
HARRY PITTSoN. sergeant, se-
shoulder.
VICTOR D. H'NDMARK, corporal,
wounded in right elbow.
WILLIAM R. STEVENSON, private,
flesh wound over right hip.
All of the soldiers were members of
company F., Fourteenth I'nited States
infantry. Dr. E. S. Haines, first lieu
tenant of the company, who attended
the infantrymen, stated he feared Pri
vate Rogoya's spine h;'d been injured
as his right arm was paralyzed. Ro
goya was removed to the military hos
pital at Fort Huachuca, Arizona.
Watchman Humphrey stated he was
startled by the approach of the squad
of men and called to them to learn
their identity. When no answer was
received, he opened fire. The soldiers
were approximately 2j feet away at
the time.
First Sergeant Martin said the
guard did not hear Humphrey call
and that the watchman was not not
iced until he began shooting. As soon
as the watchman saw his mistake he
tied, but later surrendered himselr to
deputv sheriffs. He was released tonight.
ID REFUGEES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS, N. M., June 22. I'll- j
official reports from the field tonight '
indicated that the American force;
engaged at Carrizal, was Troop H,
of the Tenth cavalry under Ca,ptain ,
Ch.irlcs T. Hnvii. f. strong. The kimr
report gave the Mexican strength at
200
The troop of the Tenth cavalry held
the field fi-r hours before retreating,
although they were outnumbered five
to one. according to unofficial reports
heavy black beard. Governmental ! tonight. The reports said that the
agents, while miking every attempt
to trace the origin of the rumor, were
iLClined to place little credence in it.
Mexican authorities in Juarez de
nied the story.
o
TO REMAIN CALM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, June 22. Fran-
j cisco A. Chupa. recognized as the
! leader of San Antonio's 30.000 Mexi
cans, and a colonel on the staff of
Governor Ferguson, will publish in
the morning in the "Imparcial de
Texas," of which he is the owner, a
proclamation, signed by himself, urg
ing the Mexicans to "remain calm
dini ousei e uiiti equanimity so ao
American only withdrew when heavy
Mexican reinforcements were brought
up.
It was learned that a courier from
the battlefield reached General Persh
ing's field headquarters at Colonist.
Dublan late today and the expedition
ary commander's report is expected
over the army wireless momentarily, j
FRED JONES GUILTY j
Secretary Lansing made no replv to I , . our.ng tne trying
1 times m which two friendly nations
(Continued on I age Twoi are on the point of going to war."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENVER. June 22. Fred Jones, ac
cused of killing Wm. Tabler. a night
watchman at the stockyards, was
fornd guilty of first d"gre murder
developments in the crisis. Mexican
reports tonight also said that prac
tically all of the troops which have
formed the horse-shoe curve stretching
around General Pershing's expedition
ary command have abandoned their
stations in the vieinity of Caisas Grau
des. Kl Valle. Namiquipa and San An
tonio. It is believed those forces have
moved eastward to points from which
they can more readily effect junctions
with General Trevino's main command.
The bolder tonight was marking time
awaiting the announcement from
Washington of the government's atti
tude after General Pershing's report on
the engagement is received. Stress is
laid upon ttie fact that from the time
the first ragged, hatless, dusty Mexican
rode on a dustier mule into Villa, Ahit
mada. yesterday afternoon bearing the
first news of the engagement until early
tonight all information has come from
Mexican sources.
Military authorities, however, clun'j
to the belief that some time during the
night General Pershing's report giving
the American version of the affair
would be received and would do much
toward relaxing the border tension. It
seemed fairly well established, how
ever, that the Mexican official reports
fixing the American losses at twelve
DEAD IN CLASH
WITH MEXICANS
NDGAEES ill
TSIRIL
M DECLARED
ler was killed following the hold-up '
of a train crew. Jones' accomplice is I
vet to he tried.
GERM A N INFL UENCES MAYBE
ENCOURAGING GEN. CARRANZA
tnd sentenced to life imprisonment ! '"d and seventeen prisoners, and the
n West Side district court todav. Tab- ! Mexican casualties at four killed and
thirty wounded are wen iounucu.
Whether the Americai' commander,
whom some reports placFd as among
the dead, was Captain Lewis S. Morey
I i-.j,,t iir Churles T liovd. as indicat
ed by conflicting reorts from the field,
is still a matter of speculation.
The squadron of the Eleventh cav
alry, which General Pershing dis-
Republlcan A. P. Leased Wire active- in Mexican affairs. His ac
WASHINOTON. Juife 22. Advices , tivities began at the time Villa and
re.-eived from Mexico allege that the Carranza were at odds, and when
German representatives t there have Huerta went to the border to direct
'"l"ul wenerai i.arranza and tne , a Plot to Ka n control of the
officers of the de facto government,
in their opposition . to the I'nited
States troops remaining in that coun
try. The form of encouragement was
said to have been moral rather than
material.
This information was disclosed by
a competent authority concerning the
activity in Mexican affairs of Cap
tain Franz von Rintelen, now under
indictment in New York for com
plicity to foment strikes in American
munitions plants and under arrest in
England.
Von Rintelen is known by the au
thority mentioned, as well as by gov
ernment officials, to have been most
gov
ernment. Von Rintelen today was
described as having been prompted
by three motives in endeavoring to
stir up trouble between the I'nited
States and Mexico, although primarily
his activities were said to have been
directed against the entente, allies,
And not against the I'nited States.
The information obtained leads of
ficials to believe that von Rintelen
thought that by starting a dispute
between the I'nited States and Mex
ico, munition shipments from Amer
ica would be stopped: that the Cnited
States would be too busy to pursue
the submarine controversy
allied powers would be
and that
prevented
Political Exiles May, Now
Return To Mexico Safely
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i tached to the announcement which
EL PASO, Tex., June 22. An- Mexican olficials declined to discuss
nouncement has been made at mili- over tne telephone tonight. It was
tary headquarters in Juarez that all ' Be" er""y a" Htlon
i the de4 facto government feels - the
Mexicans who have been exiled for j need In the present crisis of the sup
political reasons during, the Carranza port of all the Mexican people, and
regime may return to Mexico in especially that, of former military
safety, according to reports to be leaders, and is offering amnesty in
published in local Spanish papers return.
tomorrow. iniy a tew leaders, who; Agents or tne l ulled States de
have leen particularly obnoxious to partment of justice said that General
the de racto government, are said to , niarceio i araveo, formerly one of
have been excepted in the order. Orozco's chief lieutenants, who has
Among these are Francisco Villa, ' been a refugee in El Paso, with his
Foelipe Angeles and Felix Diaz, the family, crosed to Juarez tonight
latter, uccruing to' last reports, being several other Mexicans, who have
In the state of Oaxaca. 1 been minor leaders in revolutions in
Considerable significance was at- Mexico, also crossed the frontier.
from securing fuel oil and gasolfne !
from the Mexican fields. More than j
00 per cent of the oil used in the j
British navy comes from Mexico. I
It was pointed out today that at
no time would the United States have
failed to press its demands in re
gard to the conduct of submarine
warfare, even if a state of war ex
isted with Mexico. As for exporta
tion of oil from the Mexican fields,
it was said today that in the event of
war between the United States and
Mexico, somes means will be found
to prevent the plans of von Rintelen
from being realized.
The names of Frederico Stallforth
of New York, a former ' banker n
Mexico, and Andrew C. Maloy, also
of New York, are mentioned in con
nection with that of von Rintelen.
Stallforth,. who was said to - have
been associated with von Rintelen in
Mexico, was called before the federal
grand jury in New York to testify-
to his activities. Von Rintelen, while
in this country, maintained head
quarters In Stallfoith's offices. He
is understood here to have denied any i
connection with Mexican intrigues but
was remanded to jail overnight for f
contempt for refusing to answer cer
tain questions before the jury.
Meloy also was associated with
von 'Rintelen in Mexico. He was in
dicted in New York on the charge of
having obtained a false passport for
von Rintelen.
Another name mentioned with von
Rintelen's .was that of David Lamar,
some times called "The Wolf of Wall
street," and indicted with him. La
mar is said here to have obtained a
large sum of money from von Rin
telen to be used in promoting cer
tain plans regarding Mexico, and dock
strikes in New York. So far as is
known in Washington, Lamar per
formed no services commensurate
with the sum of money he is said to
have received.
' ' i
(Continued on Page Two)
AMERICAN FAMILIES
FLEE FROM BORDER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz., . June 2. Tw
foreigners, one an American, were
killed Tuesday in a fight between
three refugees attempting to rearti
the United Slates border and thir
teen Mexican soldiers at Cienega Frid,
eight miles east of Arizpe, Sonora, ac
cording to an ' official telegram re
ceived late today at Agua Prieta by
General P. Elias Calles. Mexican com
mander, from the presidente municipal
of Arizpe.
The telegram was believed by per
sons here to confirm earlier reports
from Nrtcozari and Arizpe that Jim
Parks, 4T, years old, an American, and,
A. R- Dickson, a British subject, were
the men who had been killed.
The third refugee, who was taken
prisoner by the Mexicans, was iden
tified as Norton Hand,, a citizen of
the United States. He is being held
at Nacozari, 73 miles' south of the
border. on a charge of homicide, ac
cording to messages from Mexican
officials there. One report said he
already had been ordered executed but
this had not been confirmed.
One Mexican, soldier was killed and
another wounded in the fighting, ac
cording to the official report to Gen
eral Calles.
This report stated the three men
were noticed Dy .Mexican civilians
while cutting a wire fence on a ranch
at Cienega Fria and that they were
told to stop by theMexicans. When
they failed to do so. the commander
of the Arizpe garrison was notified
3nd he sent a squad of thirteen sol-
j TOMBSTONE, June 22. More
than a score of American families I
have fled from their homes near the
boundary line south of San Pedro,"
Ariz., because of threatened raids I
from the Mexican sifle by forces j
I seeking horses and supplies. One
of the refugees who arrived here
. today, stated that the Mexican sol-
I diers at Del Rio, Sonora, were j
j boasting that they easily could raid
these ranches as no I'nited States
j soKliers were stationed in the dis-
trict. Automobiles sent from here
and from Bisbee brought many of
the Americans from their ranches j
I in the threatened district. Few of j
them brought away more than a
few personal belongings. i
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
XOGALES. Ariz., June . 22. Tele-
giams were sent to President. Wilson
by the Mayor of Xcgnles todav asking
that martial law be declared in the
town ai.d that more troops be dis
patched here immediately to protect
Nngales and its environs.
The messages were sent despite the
arrival of additional troops today.
which brought the strength of the
American garrison to 2,000, because of
the sodden mourning this afternoon of
the boroer guard in Nogales. Sonora,
and the departure of many native resi
dents of the city. When no resxnse
had been rect ived tonight the civil
guard, organized yesterday, maintained
a patrol of the town in co-operation
with the soldiers. heay guards being
placed about the municipal water
works. Mexican Consul Delgado tonight an
nounced the receipt of orders from the
Mexican foreign office to call upon
all Mexicans in the Nogales district
to return to Mexico at once. No ex
planation was offered.
Frederick Simpich, United Statet
consul in the Mexican town, tonight
telegraphed General P. Elias Calles,
military governor of Sonora, a,sking
that steps be taken by his officers to
oeteimine the whereabouts of five
Americans who left Cananea on Mon
day in an attempt to reach the borde:
through the mountains to the east of
the town. Fears were expressed here
that the men. George Prince of San
Diego, Cal. : Henry Thurston of Rec
tor, Ark ; Dan Carter of Oklahoma,
A. I). Williamson and John Gailliard
of Fl Pa.so. Tex., have died of expos-
(Continued on Page Twelve)
(Continued on Page Two)
THOUSAND CARRANZA RECRUITS
ENROLLED FROM JUAREZ CITY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, June 22. Consul Garcia
He said drilling of these preparatory
to their incorporation in the army of
announced that one thousand volun- the north would begin immediately. The
-
leers of the Carranza army, being en
rolled in Chihuahua, had been recruit
ed from the civilian population of Jua
rez today following the publication of
the news of yesterday's engagement.
i Cananea Plant In Hands
Of Municipal Authorities
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KANSAS CITY, Mo., June 22. The
fifty million dollar property of the
Cananea Consolidated Copper com
pany at Cananea. Sonora, an Ameri
can concern, nas oeen placed in i lie
hands of the municipal authorities of
Cananea. Sonora, who have promised
to operate it, according to a message
received here today by Delbert J.
Calles Makes Denial
D'tl'GLAS. Ariz.. JiVne 22. General
P. Elias Calles, military cojltmander of
Sonora entered vigorous denial at his
Apia Prieta headquarters to the
Kansas City story that the Cananea
Consolidated- Copper company's prop
erties at Cananea, Sonora, had been
confiscated by the de facto govern
ment. General! 'alles said there was
consul also issued the following state
ment
"The people of El Paso need fear no
surprise attacks from the Mexican side
of the Rio Grande. Both the civil and
military population of Juarez and
vicinity have had strict instructions to
maintain peace and quiet until war is
declared."
Some interest, but little apprehension
was "attached to the last sentence of
the statement, which seemingly ISft an
open intimation that the Carrancistas
planned to attack the city in the event
of hostilities. Well informed persons,
however, put little credence in this in
terpretation of the statement.
A message from General Alvaro Ob
regon, Mexican minister of war, con
taining a denial of the reports that he
had issued a statement today saying
he was responsible for the Carrizal en
gagement and had ordered the Mexican
force to attack the Americans, was re-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, June 22. Strag
glers from the Tenth cavalry detach
ment that was in the fight at Carri
zal, arrived at General Pershing's
headquarters today and told him that
the lighting began with an unprovoked,
attack on the Americans at'. the con
clusion of a parley with the Mexican
commander. General Pershing trans
mitted their story to General Funton
tonieht, who immediately referred it
to the war department.
The men were unable to tell any
thing regarding the casualties or even
the liter phases of the engagement.
They retreated during the fight, be
came separated from their commands,
making their way back to the Ameri
can lines. The troops of the Tenth
caxnlry. Company C, commanded by
Captain OharleF T. Boyd, and Company
K., commanded by Captain LewH
Moty, comprised the detachment that
rrived within a mile of Cantzal at 7
a. m., June 21. They had stopped at
Ojo de Santo Domingo on the previ
ous night, resuming their march to
ward the east at 4 o'clock the next
morning.
Frtm their position in front of Car
rizal, the cumraandiTjOf the detach
ment believed by General Pershinw
to have been Captain Boyd, since ho
was senior in rank to Captain Mores',
sent forward a Mexican guide to se
cure from the commander of the Mex
ican garrison their permission to pass
throutrh the town.
General Felix Gomez sent bat k word
by the guide that the Americans might
pass thiough if they would consent
to a parley. Without waiting for the
commander of the American force to
reply, Cicneral Oomez, accompanied by
sn aide, appeared and the American
officer rode forward to talk with him.
"While they were talking, the men
saM, the Mexican troops moved for
ward in force and deployed in such
manner that there appeared danger of
the American lotce being surrounded.
One of the men who had been holding
the horse3 of the American officer and
the man who had ridden forward with
him. said the American officer appear
ed to protest against the positions
General Gomez's troops were taking
A few minutes later General Gnms
rode off toward one end of the Mex
ican line and immediately after get
ting there the Mexicans began to at
tack, sweeping the. American line with
a machine gun.
U wns not until then, according to
It was not' until then, , according
commanders gave orders for both
troops to dismount and return the.
fire. f
Generil Pershing said that before
the Americans left on the expedition
both he and Major Evans of the Tenth
cavahy cautioned the commanding of
ficer to be very careful not to provoko
a fight.
General Porslhng had 1 received no
news of the two squadrons of the)
Eleventh cavalry he sent out this
morning to get in touch with tlie
troops that were at Carrizal. Staff of
ficers here calculated that the reli-;
party should reach the remnant of tho
little detachment late tonight or to
morrow morning. It was assumed that
because the two troops were returning
wifh their wounded, piogress neces
sarily, was slew and that the relief
party would have to travel a'most the
entire distance from the main line of
communications to Carrizal. some 80
miles.
General Funston appeared impressed
with the sincerity of the story brought
in by the stragglers but said that-i
would not cause him to send any new
instructions to General Pershing or t-
any of the border commanders. The
report will be in Washington before
morning.
Oenen l Pershing manifested surprise
in his reports early today over the re-
port that the officers of the troop had
precipitated the engagement. He toM
General Funston in his report that a.l
of his men had received the most
positive orders not to do anything that
might precipitate a fight.
Reports of a routine character were
received from all parts of the horde!
but none showed any marked increas
ed activity of the bandits along the
Rio Grande but almost all told of ac-.
tivity on the part of the de facto gov
ernment troops and of the Mexican
population on all border towns. Tho
tendency to !i general evacuation of
border points by- Mexican garrisons
was Wfset to some extent by failure
of the garrisons at Eagle Pas and
I. -i redo to witdraw.
From Laredo it whs reported that
Orders from Washington were received
there to close the port to foodstuffa
offered in large quantities. Xo ex
planation was offered but it was as
sumed by the customs officers tha
it was done to prevent the 'Mexican
troops receiving supplies.
no
they
are being worked by Mexican
Haft', an attorney, who represents the employes in the absence of the Amer
company. I icaus. He also said bullion and cop-
Mr. Hiiff announced that all the! per matte from the smelter is being
American employes had crossed the ! allowed to be exported as usual at
border.
I Naco.
I ceived at the milUarv ruartel in .Tna.
reason to seize the properties as ; re, toniirht. The disnatch asserted that
the war minister knew nothing of the
engagement until 'he received official
reports last night and pointed out that
his subordinate commanders acted en
tirely upon their own initiative in the
action.
Prisoners at Chihuahua
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mex June 22.
The seventeen American soldiers,
negro taoopsers of the Tenth cavalry,
who were captured in the battle at
Carrizal, - were brought here today
vvith Lem H. Spillshury, a mormon
scout employed by General X J.
