ran
ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
THIRTY -SEVENTH 172AR.
VOL. I v"
Ten Pages
MEXICANS CLAIM
AMERICANS WERE
HEAVIER LOSERS
IN RECENT FIGRT
He Facto Casualties Are 14
Killed and 30 Wounded;
Dozen 1!, S. Soldiers Slain
and 17 Captured,
COMMANDERS OF BOTH
SIDES FALL IN BATTLE
Identity of Pershing's Officer
Not Settled; Victim Thought
To Be Captain of Tenth
Cavalry,
THE WEATHER
THE WEATHER roi!i;csT.
New Mexico- Friday and Balurdaj
fair, not much change m tempe-i a-turc.
y, S. CITIZEN IS
SL
AIN IN ERACAS
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Friday, June 23, 1916
R
NOT INSPIRED BY
Ten Pages
Dally by Currier or Mall, ftOr
s Mouth. Single Copies. I
A
ZAL CLASH
Medical Society Must
Pay tc for Libel on
Wine of Cardui Firm
LOCAL WEATHER REPORT.
for twenty-tour hours ending at J
p. m. yesterday:
Maximum temperature, degrees
niinimum, t", degrees; range, 43 de
rata; temperature at o p, m., S4 de.
greet: south wind; clear;
Will
TU iirnure mi
I IVHIIVL.J UN
ill VENUSTIANO
ATTACK UPON AMERICANS
WITHOUT PROVOCATION.
CITY HANK CLKAIUNGI.
174,(44.42,
MEXICAN RANCH! IS BORDER ROPE
Another Is Taken Int o Custo
dy and Threatened With
drew only whan heavy Mexican reln-j
forcementa were brought up,
It was learned that courier from1
the battlefield reached General Par- Execiitioif; OllC Spailish-
shings headquarters at Colon la l)ui- . , uu
lan lata today and the expeditionary ARM)! 10(111 Killed,
commander's report la expected over
the army wireless momentarily.
Evacuation of Juarez P.11
Halted by Emergency f
ports of Washington's lnt 1
j Views About Situation.
beginning," he said. "Ths fight i
detached Incident that doea not ij
on the main question, except insi
aa it may Inflame tha two peoptai
"Is four opinion that ol yoar K
Ml
mlj rep,
DISABLED SOLDIERS
TO BE DISCHARGED
BRITISH SUBJECT ALSO
THOUGHT TO BE DEAD
When Refugees Cut Wiic
Fence and Were Told to
V VORNINd JOURNAL L LSAtf D WlRI!
El Paso, Tex., .lime If, The Amet
le,, . , )ii cinfffltrpil fh,, CftfMIAU sol
Iters In battle at Carrixal yesterdai ."'
were Heavier losers than the Mexicans,
according to report- issued by the
Mexican consulate In Bl Paso today.
it..(i.iNi r,. (,miK,tat.i 'Trouble Said to Have Arisen
I I i Ml, .11 il. V 0 1 . III t 1 1 III J 1 1 J ill I V
With re, hi. -.-ts from all over Prussia. W lPn KftTll.oopc .lit UV 1 1 A
tha war ministry lias decreed that
soldiers who have been injured to the
extent that they are no longer fl j
for military aervlce ahall bo as speed-
lly discharged as possible instead of
being retained indefinitely on the ar-j
my toils.
Ml branches of the service are
hasten so far its post-
he work of determining what '
linen are unfit for further service, and;
Mhrt f. , l,,,riti.... ,... iHBfMUttAj rl,:lL
.' . SgS I-ria, eight miles east of Arizpe.
CARRANCISTA GARRISONS
ARE SOUTHWARD BOUND
I I vi
This
the Mti
Juaraa
Whlli
tier,
the
Mexican Troops Surrounding
Parclnnnlr
JP
,11
Abandon Stations at Sev-i
era I Points,
1 1
pened rir
border tit
I hit
Mm lr.su ,.f ,,.,!,. ,,, ,..,1, ti.,l. !. unl. -
he Mexicans calm thai while four- ... .... . .. i Hon,,
' , . , , ... , , (Iters shall not hinder their release. , .
n of their number were killed and,, . . ,-... ,;n i.
wounded, the Americans aUf- , . .,,,,,,, ,iii.. .... .v., -v (,,'n' 1 Kliaa Cl
red n even d,,v.cil killed una lost 7 '. , . " . ' . . I can commander. The tel
Her 01 men wno pernapa no longer ,,,
, t ill,. ,', am nriwmiit'M In m.Ii IIIIAn .....
' lean light tun can worn.
v aay the Americans hail an tin- I ,
(BY MORNINO JOURNAL RRfCOAL LEAREO IRr
DoUglaa, Ariz, .lime IS, Two for
elgners, one an American, were killed
Tuesday in a fuiht between three ref
ugees attempting to reach tha border
ana tnirieeu .Mexican souiiers ill leii- tilhiiahua Cltv. lane 2! f
ega Prla, eight mllea east of Arizpe, announcing thla afternoon a aton
Honora, according to an official tele- of the battle which he- said L. II.
gntm received late today at AKiia ' Spillshury, a Mormon scout lold
S, Mexi- him, Qen. Jacinto Trevlno, corn
am was 1 4 mander of the military district of
I by persona here to confirm - the northeast, anni ed that
earlier reiorts from KaCOMtrl and any lime and unj place tha
Naco, Arli:., whi
dicr was kilted I
Wounded by a
)icesi"''"' "iihout w
upon them. At
ti-Aincrican sentiment reaulted i
the death ol Jim Parka, a minin
proapot tor, while . R, Dickaon,
Brltiah aUbjfCt, was wounded in
clash with Mexicans in the vicinity c
acoari, Bonora.
4 ti:i: io taciti xiimi'ix American trooi aion the i,m
U MKXICANK I I Kl I) l i us I
SURVIVORS OF CARRfZAL
TELL GENERAL PERSHING
MEXICANS BEGIN FIRING
WITHOUT WARNING AT END
OF OFFICERS' CONFERENCE
AMERICAN FAMILIES
n rtriMr ronu oncnrD
I LLLII1U I HUIVI UUMULHihad been killed.
The third refuff
Arlzpo that Jim Parks, 4 years of. American troops move Other tha
Ige, an American, and A. K. Dickson. 1 4 towards the border ha w ill ' on
i Brltiah subject, were tha men who I ply to the letter with ins aupei
lot's orders and will altaek them behind th
I as lieu. Felix tlouiez did at
4 nzal.
known number of wounded which !
I hey carried off with them.
Both Leaders Killed,
.,,.. puo,, uu. , I Thp thjrd refugee, wno vu tnl
urravaa luiuimnavr, un, r,it. .,o- . ibt mornino journal special liasco wiri prisoner by tile Mexicans, was ident
Inez, lost his lite, the American leaner Tombstone, Ariz., Jnne 22. More fled , Norton Hand, a citizen of the f :.. .. ;. .
also was killed. Ithan a score of American famlllee j XTnited States, He is bOlng held at
Uncertainty regarding the Identity Ihawe fled from their homes near the jNacozarl, seventy-five miles south of ", "orn, no ,ournalric,al LiAtto wmi
of the commander of the American boundary line south of San Pedro,! the border, on a charge of homicide.l ''' i'so, Tex., June II. Juarez to
troops was believed today to have! Ariz., because of threatened raids j according to messaues ' f loin Mexican ni'';nl was b'acticallv evacuated by
been dlaalpatad by a report received ' from the Mexican side by forces seek-; officials there. line report said ni, 1 1 'arranzu troops. The , , unman, I. in, :1a
through Columbus, . M., that he Waaltng horses and supplies, tine of thai already had been ordered executed, I WM almost deserted, the wireless ita-
uld not be confirmed. n"" waa dismantled, the collector of
ilonis ;iiul (Jen, Krau, sco tionzales
li, had left for the interior
iler have been issued extra ration
and ammunition, combat and pack
trains have been loaded, and the field
kitchens Issue, I firewood In prepara
tion for any rventuallt) .
Htrong outposts have been posted
at aii border military camps, In Bl
Paso additional companies of infantry
patrolled tha streets throughout the
aiKht. Heavy machine gon oontin ,
Ifnts were stationed at the Interna- 1
llonal hrldgea nn,i a battery of 4.7- j
inch field nuns, mounted on I mesa, i
pointed their Hoses
i readiness, if neces- I
Rft-pound projectiles ,
apt, Lewis 8. Moray, of the Tenth jrefugeei who arrived here today atat-jhut
tvalry. Captain Mori iipparently I ed that Mexican soldiers at Del Kio, ,
arted on his mission, which lias not I Honora, were boasting ihat they easily j
is lightened '
xpedltlon
here
id ti
been officially explained, from i jo
J'ederico, hut the exact time is not
Known, although it may have been
Monday.
.hiare .arri-Hn l.caviii);.
r.)!l.... l,T"fecel,,t ,if ! ,,, s of
ihe Cnrrlzal encounter, the Juarez gar
rison, just across the rier from EH
I'aso, lasl night began the evacuation
Of the town. More than half of the
-arrHon got out during the early
morning hours and at noon most of
the remainder Were loaded on trains,
ready to depart, I
Kvacuation of Juarez was deemed
advisable because it battery of 4, 7-inch
gnus, capable of throwing a sixty
pound explosive six miles, pointed
their noses threateningly over Kl I'aso
today in the direction of the Mexican
Stales soldiers were stationed in the
district,
Automobiles sent from here and
from P.isbee brought many of the
Am-rlc;''!. frm their ranches in the
threatened district. Few of
brought away more than a few per
sonal belongings.
and uniy a tew s
patrols were In evid
In addition a larg,
population, taking
Mexican Soldier hilled.
uld raid these ranches us no United, , ' '. . ,
auoiiier woouocti in ine nuuiig, ac
cording lo the official report to (!en
eral CaUSS.
This report stated the Ihree null
were noticed by Mexican civilians
while culling a wire fence on a ranch
I at Clanega PTla and that they were
'told to atop by the Mexicans. When
I they failed to do so. the commander
j of the Arizpe garrison was notified
,a,,u ,i, ..iii a s.,,,.,i ... ,,,.11..,, pvi Inn-fl, ...
rt me roreignera to tr
mem t oat i
zal arrived
beaquartert;
iii, flshtlna
, iii the
in of ti
ill' hoi
Hilary
treats,
civil
ahold
e,
I fcilllHtl
22 LOVE NOTES
OF YOUNG ORPET
Ity. The southernmost outaktrta Of
JUare ale not more than three and &
half miles from Ihe battery, which
could wipe the tow n off tha map in an j
hour's time.
READ III COURT
diet
' garrison.
Refugees Won't Malt.
I
I The report said the soldiers over
took the refugees after Hoy had cut
,' their way through the fence Bellev
llng them possibly to be cattle thieves,
the officer in command called for the
I fleeing! men to halt. Instead, il w as
I Claimed, they replied by opening fire
i with revolvers, killing one and wound-
Ing another soldier.
i The return fire of the Mexicans, it
dds, killed one man and fa
PKRSllINfi SENDS POHCES
TO SCENE OP BATTLE
Santonin, Tex.. June 22. General
Pershing reported to Heheral Funston
today that he had not yet received a
report on the fight at farrizal. but
added that on information sent him,
lie had sent out two squadrons of the
Bleventh cavalry with instructions to
get into touch with the troop of the
Tenth that was engaged yesterday by
Ihe Mexican forces.
Aident Youth Told His Beloved i wounded another. The third man
aped.
l",4 Hinnonr. !n C,-Anr in CHpi
lie uui Jlaooc in wiuci tui Hand waa arreated after he had en-
Reach Postman Sooner; j VTT1,
Complained ot Coolness,
said. According to Americans w ho
! were in Naczari at the time. Hand
j stated he and bis companions were
(V MORM1N9 JOURNAL SPECIAL LEASED WIRR) flrOl ll)OH flTSl b.V the SOllUerS W llCII
Waukeggn, 111., June L':. William I tin- mules ridden by two of Ihe nu n
)rpet, charged with the murder of stampeded.
his former sweetheart. Marion Lam- BrtlUll tXmRUla UOmer,
liert, underwent the most trying ordeal (. c,. Duncan, British vice consul
I of his trial today, when Attorney Da-j for northern Sonora, and Alexandei
Cent ral Funston made il plain that vid li. JOSlyn, assisting in the prose-4 Hand, Jr., Itritish ice consul in An
Qaneral Pershing's report has not al ICUtlOn, read tWenty-yWO ot his love'zomi, began an invesngation or ine
"re, the general situation and that no letteri addressed to Marion. The j reported killing of Dickson. They
special orders will be issued until ItWenty-tWO remaining ones will be j held a long conference with General
General Perahlntr has rendered a r. I read tomorrow, after Which the state j Calles at Agua I'rieta. Upon their re
port in delall or in,. Corrl.ol flohl nri Will resl Its ease. turn to Dougl
the incidents that led up to it.
800 MEXICANS ATTACKED
IMEIUOAXb AT UlRIZAI.
Columbus. X. f., June JJ, i'nof
ticial reports from the field tonight
indicated that the American force en
KaKcd at CarrlSal, was iroop II ol
the Tenth cavalry under Captain
Charles Boyd, It strong. The same
teporis gave the Mexican strength at
-'00.
they said General
During the presentation of the evi-(Calles was making SVSfy effort to
dence bearing more directly on the i learn (He truth concerning IBB case,
charge of murder the defendant sat Prom other sources in close touch
With his head only Slightly bent, and with investigations of the fight, it
noMtr iv Hln r,.u,,iri -rlarafwas iisserled the lintish representa-
at any of the curious ones who stared
lives had urged that General Calles
bring either Dickson or his body to
the border for identification. Calles
was said lo have promised to do this.
i Hand and Parks had been on a
I prospecting ti ll'. Monday they re-
..I..J .Mna tr, er,me In the I'niled
at him, but during (he reading of lus
letters he sal with his head bowed
and one hand shading his eyes from
all observers, even those who sal
closeat to him.
,oe oossi.es k.wu l.ie j,,.., Americans reaching here BBid.
Iwero love letters only. They told of I ' , ,. .... . ,mv, iou
in infatuated hoy pleading tor more i ' ' . ..,,.,,
Ileiters from Marion, seekinn warmer I. . .,.., ....r... them
xpressions from her of the love: rjickson'a brother and family are al
A'hich he alternately claimed or cvonMAWi Mrs Parks
pi enr.n ...
; and young daughter are lh ing here,
j Relatives of Hand lite said to reside
I., IMneoo N If.
....u. uriu me iieni ior live nours pegged her to write oti. ner ami
"tor retreating, although they were his " lasses to reach the postman the UfeRTl rtrtft f)CC PR0PFRTY
outnumbered five to one, according to aooner and spoke of his distress when lo0U,UUU,UUU murtn I 1
toward Juarez in rt a,l
ary, i,, throw iia-po
a dlstanca of stg miles.
Military censorship
noticeably all along ti
night, especially at lb.
base at Columbus, N M
censorship on the telegrai
phone lines has been maintained stun
General Pershing crossed the frontle
March if,. The IntlmStton from mill
tarv headquartera was thai any Infor
niaiion concerning military movt
mints m li Ml come from General l''un
ston in San Antonio. Mexican author
goods will) thOm, left during the day "lea in border points also tighten,',
for tile soinh, .the news censorship today, and In tw,
Throughout the day troop and sup- tOwttS, American town newspflpermei
ply trains pulled out of the .Mexican : were taken temporarily into custod;
Central station, bound southward, os.-'O' military authorities
tenstbly to Gen. Jacinto Trevlno, com- ' 0 Johnson, formerly of Dallas
I mantling the CarratHUt army of the Tex., and now attached to the staff ol
i City. Several of a local paper, was arrested in Juarez
the trains, however, were halted with- White VV. Canned, ,,f Los Angeles, e
in il score Of miles of the Ulty to press correspondent, was detained In
i await runner orders. ome reports wogaiea, sonora, Both were released
iiuuiaieu i nil r Willi ine aiir.oimcemcni snorny upon representations from the
from Washington that the adminis- American COmmanderi In the border
t ration, reasoning from the inform a towns oppni
(ion at hand, was inclined to place mix diSCOUrl
the responsibility for the Carrisal Consul Oh
clash yesterday upon the Mil, ordinate volunteers i.
Commanders of both forces, thai a ing enrolled
part at least of the command evacu- recruited in
ating Juarez was to be returned I"'- Juarez, folli
lore daybreak. I yesterday 'a e
Ksodna la General. ing of these
Hvacual ion of I, order points bv Car. ' 1,1 1'orailon i
raucista garrisons had been general Wl
today but in most Instances the troops su
have hei n concentratM ii few miles ment!
touth of the boundary awaiting im ConauVa Itcsaatiring Statement, I
ther developnieiils in the crisis. Alex-i "The people of Kl I'aso need fear I
ICMl reports tonight also said (hut no surprise attacks from the Mexican
practically all ,,i the troops which side of the Rio Grande, Both the civil
have formed the horseshoe curve Od military population of Juarez and ;
stretching around General Pershing's vicinity have had slrb i Instructions to I
expeditionary command have aban- maintain peace and qulei until war a
dotted their stations In the vicinity of declared," ! iv BnlNIN
Caaas Grandea, El 'aiie, Namlqulpaj Some interest, but little apprehen-1 Kaoa,
and San Antonio, it is believed those slon was attached lo the last sentence IffumPbrey,
forces have moved eastward to points of the atatemsnt, w hich seemingly left ! employed I
from which they can more readily ef- open an Intimation thai the Carrattcls- 'water tiinnl
lOS.taa planned to attack the city In (hallnal Ida
'event of hostilities. Well informed ' Jul y for k
Ing nei-Muis however mil urn..
nine wcuuiia aiiiiouricemeni t,j. interpretation
from Washington of the government's; .... s...,..,. r,,,,,, ,
gon, minister of w'ar,
nlal of i he reports 1 1
a statement today Ml
aponatbli for the i '.u
and had ordered lb,.
attack the American!
the military cuartel
night. Tin- dispatch
It Is Only Then That Americans Are Given Order
to Open and Bring Guns Into Action; Trouble
Starts When Commander of Detachment Asks
Permission to Pass Through Town; Mexican
Officer Suggests Parley, and Without Awaiting
Reply, Rides Forward to Meet American Lead
er; During Subsequent Conversation, de Facto
Troops Are Seen to Be Forming Themselves
in Such a Way As to Endanger American
Troops; U. S. Officer Thought to Have Pro
tested; Carrancista General Rides Off, and
Hostilities Are Begun; Pershing Reports Stories
of Stragglers to Funston, Who Transmits
Them to Washington.
RN1NO JOURNAL I.ICl.l I R .ltd VRB
ntonlo, Tex.. June 22.-8trai
on the Tenth cavalry detael
lh,
, li
ili'd Di
hi
(e and neither suffer,,
cla announced that 1,00(1
in Chihuahua, bad been
he civilian population ol
wing the publication ol
igagemerit. He said drill
preparatory to their m-
ito the al my of the north
Immediately, The con
d ihe following state-
II HI 10
UHN
C
JIIUI HIVILSI
SOLDIERS FREED
Oroner's Jury Exonerates
Mexican-American Who
Killed Private and Wound
ed Other Infantrymen,
ICapt, Charles T. lioyd, and Company
'cavalry, Cmpany C, commanded by
IK, commanded by Capt. Lewis Morey,
I comprised the detachment that ar
rived within a mile of Carrisal at v a.
jm., June It, They had stopped al OJo
lie Santo Domingo on the previous
titgiit, resuming their march toward
the ,-ast m 4 o'clock the next morning,
.,!,o for Permission.
From their posilion n front of Car
jrlzul, the commander of detachment,
believed by General Pershing to have
; been I'm, la in lioyd, since ho was San
aa ,u i.in , to Captain 'Morey, nt-nt. tor
Ward a Mexican guide to secure from
the , ommaiider of the Mexican garri
son their permission to pass through
General Felix Gofndf sent back
Word that the Americans might pass
through If they would consent to a
parley, Without wailing for the com
mand, r of the American force to re
ply, Genera) domes, accompanied y
an aide, appeared and the American
officer rode forward to talk With him.
MOXlcana' Moves Suspicious.
While they were talking, the men
said, the Mexican troops moved for
ward in force and deployed in, such
manner Ihat I here appealed danger
of the American force 'being sur
rounded. One of the men who had
been holding the horses of the Anier
P an officer and the man who had
ridden forward with him, said the
American officer appeared to protest
against the positions Genera Home?.'
troops were taking.
A few minutes later General Go
mez rode off toward one end of tha
Mexican line and immediately after
getting there Ihe Mexicans began to
attack, sweeping the American line.
w it ii a machine gun.
feci junctions with General Ti
main command.
The border tonight was n
EPICAL LtARin WIRE I
one 22. -William Americans Were Attacked,
an It was not until He n. according to
aco I the Stragglers, thai the American
10 . j command r gave orders for both
,,. I troops to dismount and return tho
a Mexicon-Ai
watchman at ti
vaa exonerated I
le tOdai bv a c
lly !
ral Pershing's re
niotit is received.
I he fa, t that from
ragged, hatlesa,
on u dustier mule
IMEJRICAN TROOPS HELD
111.1,1) nil! FIVE HOURS
loiumbus, N. M.i June 82. The doubted,
troop of the Tenth cavalry which I She called him "dear''
''liished with Cafranclstas yesterday at he wanted to be called "dearest
attitude after
pOrt on the !
Stress is laid u
Ihe time the
dusty Mexican
into Villa Ahumuda yesterday after
noon bearing the first news of the en
gagement until early tonight all In
formation has coma from Mexican
sources. Mllltarj authorities, how
ever, clung to the belief thai somc-
uight General Persh-
itement, flv 0then
" ' lh'e- testified h
Iff a de- .
I ii tii I'll
8 tile II
to
Wat,
Will,
ip
til
'p
Juan
th
port.
ihe American ver
vvould be received
h toward relaxing
und
He
cut I
his si
tirelv
Jl
is! night
irdtnatt i
pon theh
id poinleil out that
nmundera acted en-
ll ililllativ,
th
Sliecl ( ins Slopped.
t car traffic from K I'aso to
which continued unlaterrupt-
night, was stopped at aboul
lock tonight. The situation did
mint the operation of curs. It
unofficial reports here tonight. The
reports said that the Americana with-
The Day in Congress
CARRANCISTAS' HANDS
X
inii
ill.
lie I
Kei
SENATE.
ral affairs subcommittee eon
d consiileration of house naval
Frida
d railway mail feature of
appropriation bin.
'd at 6:13 p. m. until I 1 a.
(.t, means committee om-
' s ennsidered revenue legislation.
UMered fortifications appropria-
Me.ii.er Clark signed warrant for
j 5 "f District Attorney Marshall
sw fork for contempt of house.
aisej foriification bill.
uned consideration of naval ap
"'priaiion bill.
Adjooraed at r:n p m until noor,
soon'T and spoke of hi
the latter had nothing for him from j
her.
Although the text of the letters W88 , Mt).NIN. jou.n.l ip.cal le.eed wirli
published weeks ago. the courtroom j Kansas City, Junue 21 The $50
was crowded in anticipation of the re- IgoOOOO property of the Cananea Cor
cltal. Mrs. R. O. rirpet, the boy'a j olldated Copper company at Cane
mother, sat fixedly as she has sat i'V- nfU Sonora, an American concern,
ery day of his trial by his side, erect has been placed In the hands of the
Bg a ramrod and not missing word. She municipal authorities of Cananea, So-
Ihad not read them when published in ipora, who has promisee to operate u,
the newspapers and was visibly moved j according to a message reel Ived hi
at the passages where her son spoke today by Delbert .1. Haft", an attorn
of his anxious waiting for the let-j who represents the company,
ters. 1
The missiv es cover a period of X j To Attend Templar Conclave. j
year and number forty-four in all. Doming, N. M.. June 12, Amos W
They were written from Madison, , Pollard, grand commander of the I
Wis., where Orpel was attending the Knight Templars of New Mexico.
university, to Marion at Lake For-j has goe to California lo attend the
eSf . thirty-third conclave o Knight Tem-
, plars of America. Mr. Pollard will
Fto.iHi Steamer Slink. meet all of his grand lodge officers
June L'2. Lloyd I an- ana npnmwiiRi t-...-
nderies on the coast at ine con-
ins gross, I clave, out mere win ne no , ki e,.
i Wednes-1 1( red by the New Mexico Knights. Mr.
at Kirk- Pollard is also commander of the
grand L. A F. M of New Mexico,
time during the
ing'H report givh
aion of the affa
and would do n
the border tension.
Mexican (U'porte Hcllcved,
It seemed fairly well establif
however, that Ihe Mexican offlcls
polls fixing Ihe American lossei
twelve dead and seventeen i,isri
jand (he Mexican casualties a( four- j vvas said in explanation
teen killed and thirty wounded are j Approximately one thousand Mexi-,'
well founded. W hether Ihe American ! CS41S crossed the river into R Paso
commander, whom same reports ptec tohight, a number ,,f them being per- U
ed as among tie ,b ad WOg Captain S06S win, fled to the Mod. an town
Lewis 8, Morey or Cptaht Charles T. Jtnimediatelj upon receipt ,,r yeater-h
Boyd, as Indicated by conflic ting re- day's engagement Many well-to-do I
ports from the field, is still a mailer residents of Juarez crossed, riding In j ,
Of speculation. their private rurrlages, asserting thai 'f
The squadron of ihe Bleventh env-jthsy would feel safer on the American jj
il Pershing dtS-'Side. Very few persons crossed to the
to reinforce Ihe Mexican side tonighl
avalrj', which was . ,
e n ii bed ihe vl- BAKEH Is UTXIOI s
leans I t, today ' IK 1! 'I' MOBILIZATION ' '
lard there.
the) could make known their i
(lie following casualties bad h
Mi-.tal.en Identity 1'ntal.
Walter k. Powell, private, Wl
through the chest and abdotne
lived one hour.
John :. Rogoyn, private,
shot
ulder,
dition
General pershlng said that bervrs
111 - Amoricani bli on the expedition
both he and Major Fvans, ot the
Tenth OSValry, cautioned the com
manding officer to ho vary careful
tiol to provoke a right.
IVo News of Reinforcements,
(leneral Pershing had received no
news of the two muadrons of the
Eleventh cavsilry he sent out this
morning lo get in touch with the
lioopb thai were at Catrizal. Staff
offici i s here calculated that the re
lief party should reach the remnant
of tin- little detachment late tonight
or tomorrow morning. It was assum
ed that because the two troop were
returning with their wounded prog
less necessasil) was slow hiuI that
the relic:' prty WOuld have to travel
almost the entire distance from H.
main ine of tnmmu'iicatlonH to Car-
leucral Fiin.son appeared impress
ed wiib ihe glnoerttv f the sioiy
brought ii. ! the etiragglera but said
that it woo , I not ci.us'.' him to send
any new Instructions to Oaneral ?er
rhing or to any of the border com
mander.... n. he report will be in
Ordered u I Hostilities.
London,
nonnces that the French bark Frun-jmar
coise d'Amboise of 1,9
wits sunk by a submar,!
day. The crew was la
wall.
airy, which i li ner
liatrhed last night
troop of the Tenth i
engaged, should have reached the vi
cinity of the Americans late today
Hut inililarv authorities here did not
believe that further clashes would re
sult as all available reports indicate
that bo(h the American and Mexican
commands withdrew after the action
and arc awaiting instructions from
their respective commanders.
When totg that Washington, from
Information available, was Inclined to
place the responsibility for the Car
risal clash on the subordinate com
manders of both sides, Mexican Con
sul Garcia here expressed great sat
Isfacdon. "That has been my rtaag from tha
Jun
Funston In
nen had re-
oroti..; noi
itii prertpi'
iter
the
cut WiU
ito the f
.t m:d to no iii v
5,000 IKK MCMT1 Rl I
Washington. June 2:' Orders were j
sent from the war department t,,-
ii eiiiluurd rr.'iu ruge Two.)
Km Grande l-ut almost ail
Ivltj on ill.- part of the de
rnmeat troops and of the
population on all border
1, tendency to a general
of border points by Mexi
n. was offset to some ex
itlure of the gurrisona at
and Laredo to withdraw.
