0
rVt tff
WEATHER
MARKETS
mm
ARIZONA Generally
fair.
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
June 21, 26.71.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
i
VNOZIUV 'XIMlOHd
-LlTJ CENTS.
VOL. 19, NO. 23.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, JUNE 23, 1916.
ONE SOLDIER
npftn fiiif
m m m mm mm mm
101 SI
110
Believe Conspiracy in
Mexico Plan of Germans
Guard Of Water Company
Slays Members Of Compa
ny Ff Fourteenth Infantry,
Going To Help Him
PRIVATE PAUL DEAD
REGOYA MAY PIE
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. June 22. Advices
received here from Mexico allege that
the German representatives have en
couraged General Carranza , and the
officers of the de facto government in
their 'opposition to I'nited States
troops In that country. The form of
encouragement was said to have been
mr.ral rather than material. The re
ports further declare that German
citizens in Mexico are being treated
II OFFICERS
although primarily his activities were
said to have been directed against
the entente allies, and not against
the I'nited States.
Planned to Divert U. S.
The information obtained lends of
ficials ij believe that Von Kintclen
thought that by starting a dispute be- j
tween the I'nieed Statr-s and Mexico, i
munition shipments from America I
would be stopped; that the I'nited j
staies would oe xoo Busy 1.0 pursue !
Mistaken Identity Causes
Tragedy In Dark Early Yes
terday Morning. Soldiers
Withheld Fire
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NACO. Ariz., June 22. William
Humphrey, an American-Mexican, em
ployed as watchman at the Naeo wa
ter plant, was exonerated of criminal
blame Inte today by a coroner' jury
for killing early today one United
States soldier and wounding five oth
ers, one seriously. Humphrey testi
fied that he could not see the uni
forms of the infantrymen and had be
lieved them to be bandits.
The soldiers were fired upon by the
watchman as they approached the
water plant at 2 a. iu., preparatory to
changing the guard there. Before
they could make known their identity
the following casualties had resulted:
Walter E. Paul, private, was
shot through the chest and abdo
men. He lived one hour.
John 6. Rogoya, private, shot
through neck, right shoulder,
right arm and right thigh; condi
tion serious.
R. N. M?rtin." irst ee.-geant,
flesh wounds of back and should
ers: not serious.
Harry Pillson, sergeant, severe
ly wounded in muscles ot ngnt
sheulder.
Victor D. L'indmrak, corporal,
wounded in riaht elbow.
William R. Stevenson, private,
flesh wound over richt hip.
All of the soldiers were mem
bers of Company F, Fourteenth
U. S. Infantry.
Rogoya was removed to the
military hosnital at Fort Hua
chuca, Arizona.
Couldn't See. So Fired.
Watchman Humphrey stated he was
startled bv the pnnroach of the Eonad
of men and called to them to learn
their itfent'tv. When no answer" was
received, he opened fire. The sol
diers were approximately 20 fee' away
at the time.
First Sergeant Martin said the
guard did he?r Humphrev call and
that the watchman was not noticed
until he began shooting. As soon as
the watchman saw his mistake he
fled .but later surrendered himself to
deruty sheriffs. He was released to
night As a measure of nrecsntion in in
suring undisturbed conditions in the
Warr-n District, s company of Uni
ted Sftes regulars has been detailed
to enard the plant of the Bisbee-Na-rn
Watr Comnany. Preparations to
this nd were accompanied earlv yes
tritov bv an unavoidable tragedv
which resulted in the deth of a sol
dier and the wounding of five others.
Only one of the wounded" .however. Is
in serious condition.
When the matter of providing safe
guards for the water smooIv of the
Warren District wss taken under
consideration, officials of the Bisbee
SpfO Water Comoany found that the
miUtarv authorities were willing to
enter into herty co-operation. It
was arranged that n executive order
would be orthcoming providing for
nn adeoente guard .and that the or
der would be communicated to the
water comnanv officials to the end of
r"kin conditions s comfortable as
possible for the soldiers.
The military authorities at Douglas
disnatched oersonal letter to Cant.
Mi'es at Warren authorizing the de
tail of a company to the Naco plant
This authorization did not reach the
outpost camp until nearly 10 p. m..
and in the absence of designation to
the "commanding officer." immediate
action was taken to send forward a
coninanuy of 61 men under Lieut. F.
B. Kobes without previously notify
ing the water company officials. In
consequence of the unavoidable con
fusion resulting, the watchman at the
water plant. William Humphrey, was
unaware that armed forces were ap
proaching, i
Fired in Hurry.
H'imphrev came out of the power
plant shortly before 2 a. m., and saw
the forms of men nearby. He says
he called out a challenge and assum
ing that an attack on the nlant was
impending, opened fire. Before be
ceased, the bullets from bis gun bad
(Continued on Page Four)
with great consideration, their prop-itnP submarine contiV. ersy and that j
erty not being molested. Some the aI!ied powers would be prevented
Americans have taken advantage of fro1" securing oil and gasoline from
the favors accorded German subjects i the -Mexican fields. More than sixty
bv placing their propertv in the bands j Per cent of tlle oil ,ISH'1 u' Kritish !
of German friends upon leaving Mex-"a-v ume i.-.m .ucmc. .
Ico. j U. S. to Protect Tampico. ' j
This ini'jrmation was disclosed byj It was pointed out today that at no j
a competent authority in connection j time would the I'nited States have i
with information concerning the ac-, failed to press its demands in regard j
tivities in Mexican affairs or Captain j to the conduct of submarine w arfare.
Fmn? vnn RfntolAn nnw nnilar in- ! even if a Ktsite fif w:r l'itttel U'ftll
dictment In New York for conspiracy Mexico. As for exportation of oil;
to foment strikes in American muni-from the Mexican fields, it was said
tion plants and under arrest in Kng-j today that in the event of war, be
hind. ' 'tween the lTnited States and Mexic..
Von Rintelen is known by the au-lsome meaiis would be found to pre
thority mentioned as well as by gov-! vent the plans of von Rintelen from
ernment officials Ito have been ni'jstj being realized. ,
active in Mexican affairs. His activi-j Parral Man Implicated,
ties began at the time Villa and Car- The names of Frederic Stallforth. of
ranza were at odds, and when Huerta ' New York, former banker in Parral.
w;ent to the border to direct a plot Mexico, and Andrew C. Meloy. also of
to gain control of the tjvernment j New York, are mentioned in connec-j
Von Rintelen was said today to have j tion with that of von Rintelen. j
been p romped bv- three motives, in von Kintclen. while in this country.
endeavoring to stir tip trouble be-1 maintained headquarters in Stall
tween the United States and Mexico.' (Continued on Page Eight.)
iOiSLl
II CARRPZAL
BUTTLE
B 11 IS
OZIGAI
till
OUTNUMBERED, TROOPS
FOUGHT 5 HOURS
COLUMBUS. X. M.. June 22.
The troop of the Tenth Cav
alry which clashed with Car
ranzistas at Carrizal held the
field for five hours before re
treating, although they were
outnumbered 5 to 1. accord
in? to unofficial reports here
tonight. The reports said tiiat
the Americans only withdrew
when heavy Mexican rein
forcements were brought up.
It was learned that a courier
from the battlefield reached
General Pershing's Held head
quarters at Colon ia Duhlan
late today and the expedition
ary commander's reports is ex
pected over the army wire
momentarily.
!
i
!
:i
:!
i
mnnno u rnr
imuuro enc
ATTACKED
Captain Charles T. Boyd And Washington Still In Dark On
Lieutenant Henry R. Adair1
Reported Killed With Col
ored Troopers
CAPTAIN MOORE,
WOUNDED, ESCAPES '.
Facts Of Carrizal Clash,
Pretend To Regard It Mild
ly DEMANDS CARRANZA
RELEASE TROOPS
Morman Scout Gives - Mexi- Latin American Republics
cans Story Of Incident, ' Sent Important Note On U.
Saying He Saw Bodies Of '
13 American Troopers
S. Stand. Pershing Report
To Bring Crisis
JUAREZ DESERTED
AD
BY TROOPS
CIVILIANS: LIKE. Oil
fEy Review Leased Wire.)
CHIHUAHUA, Mex., June 22. The
seventeen American soldiers, nesro
troopers of the Tenth' Cavalry, wlfj
were captured in the battle at Car
rizal, were brought here today with
Lnu H. Spillsbury, a Mormon scout
employed by General J. J. Pershing,
and were interned.
J Spillsbury said that Captain Charles
I T. Body commanded the Americans
and with Lieut Henry R. Adair, was
an 'jng the mi led.
Captain Moore, who was with the,
American detachment, was wounded
in the shoulder, but escaped. j
Trevino Gets Bully. '
In announcing this story which he .
said Spillsbury tf.ld him, General :
Jacinto Trevino, t'ommander of the
NOGALES FEARS
GATHERING
TROOPS OF
CALLES
PERSHING
REPORTS
Mexicans In Midst Of Parley,
Turn Machine Guns On
Americans. Act Was Un
provoked By Troopers
SQUADRON SENT TO
AID DETACHMENT
Bigger U. S. Force Should
Reach Scene Today. Fatal
ities Unknown As Force
Was Separated
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON'. June 22. One fact' Mnr A.L-. A,.!
n of a i .
Soldiers, Though 2000 Are ;
Already Theve. Mexicans j
(By Review Leased Wire.) -that a part at least of the command
EL PASO, Tex.. June 22. Juarez evacuating Juarez, was to be returned
tonight was practically evacuated by before daybreak.
Carranza troops. The couimandancla Elsewhere Border Deserted,
was almost deserted, the wireless sta- Evacuation of border points bv Car-
tion was dismantled, the collector of rancista garrisons had been general .n,to f ,,h0.i .
customs, and General Francisco Gon-, tonieht but In mnst instances the L ...... .. !'
zales. commandant had left for thetroop8 havP DPm concentrated a few j pIa(e the Alll(.rican troops move other withou' inu'rr,,Ptio":
interior ,na 0n,y , , miles south or the boundary nwaliin lllan towani.s the boraer, he will fjm
Miniirti; iihui.i yrir iu . iuvii. c " iiirtner oevempmenis in in crisis, int.. tr. fio
uiv t.i i cri j..
of the civil
stood out tonight at the close, of a
day of many developments in the Mex
ican crisis. Apparently both the
I'nited States Koveriiint-nt and, the de
fac'j overuinent authorities of Mex-!
ico hope to treat the clash at Carrizal
yesterday as an incident as.sravatin
sravely strained relations, but not of FIVE AMERICANS OF
Itself likely to precipitate general j
hostilities. I
So far as the Washington admin-1 .
istration is Concerned, no final deel-; Pnnce, Thurston, Cart
ftiim cii ur rraciicu uuiii rrrMueui
Wilson has received a renort on the I
light from American army officers.
War Department Buzzing.
Events moved swiftly here during '
the day. Preparation by the war de-,
partnient for t possible war w ith the i
Mexican (.'jverninent went forward I
At the same
Leaving
CANANEA MISSING
!
er,
Gaillard And Williamson !
Fail To Reach Line. Wis-'
wall Is Safe
tBy Review Leased Wire)
SAN ANTONIO, June 22.
Stragglers from the Tenth caval
ry oeiacnment that was In the
fight at Carrizal arrived at Gen
eral Pershing's headquarters to
day and told him that the fight
ing began with an unprovoked
attack on the Americans at the
conclusion of a parley with the
Mexican commander. General
Pershing transmitted their story
to General Funston tonight who
immediately referred it to the
war department. s
The men were unable to tell any
thins regarding the casualties or even
the later phases of the encasement.
ets. In addition a large part 'Mexican reports tonieht Plso said th?t I orders ai-.d
civil population, taking their nr.rtically all of the troons -r'.-.ich L.a, rt.lix ,;
t IThey retreated during the fieht be-
(By Review Leased Wire.) icame separated from their conipan
NOGALES, Ariz., -line 22 Tele- ins. making their wav back to the
time, there came hints that General grams were sent to President Wilson r American lines. The troops of the
letter v ith his suDeriors oeen auuusi persuaueu u ine inujor 01 .Noait s iou.-y asu- i emu caivsry, i nmpany t , comma nU-
will attack them as C.en-!by KurpPpa intiaencea not to persist ins that martial law be declared in ed by Captain Charles T. Povd. anil
household soods with them left durjhaTe fonned the horseshoe curve cieneral Trevino said that all diplo-:
nig i"e uaj ii i"c auuL.i. : stretcllins arounn uenerai versnmes 1Mtjr arran-rements are outside his
sphere. Spillsbur'" story, as an
nounced by General Treviii'j, was to
the effect that 76 nesroes, comprising
Not Far South. 'expeditionary command have aban
Throughout the day troop and supply ; doned their stations in the vicinity of
trains pulled out of the town, bound jCasas Grandes. E! Veil". N'amiquipa
southward, ostensibly to join General, and San Antorio. It is believed those
Jacinto Trevino, commanding the Car-j forces hare moved eastward to points
ranza army of the north at Chihuahua from which they can more readily
City. Peveral of the trains, however, t effect junctions with General Tre
were baited within a score of miles vino's main' command,
of the city to await further orders, j The border tonlsht was marking
Some reports indicated that with the j time awaiting the announcement from
announcement from Washington that Washington of the government's atti
the administration, reasoning from the tude efter General Pershing's report
information at hand, was inclined to I on the eneasement is received. Stress
in a course certain to brin on a con
flict. ' , : :
It is known that many 'officials here
have cot abondoned hope of a peace
ful outcome although they admit that
each day since the present situation
the town and that more troops oe,'on r.nnv K. commanded bv. ('amain
despatched immediately lo proiect ! l-ewis Morey. comprised the detacb
Xosales and its environs. ment that arrived within a mile of
The messages were sent despite Carrizal at 7 a. m. June 21. They had
(he arrival of a(' tional troops today. , stopped at Ojo de Santo Pominxo on
winch brought the strength of the the previous nisht. resuming their
alni iiovd and Moore. , Lieut. Adair " : ,
and himself composed the American ! P0"3 "i",
detachment that encVuntered the """retry tha the Car
place the responsibility for the Car
rizal clash yesterday upon the sub-
' ordinate commanders of both forces.
Is laid upon the fact that from the
time the first ragged, hatless. dusty
Mexican rode on a dustier mule Into
Villo Abni'ieda yesterdav ffternoon
bearing Jhe first news of the engage
ment until ear'v t,onieht all Informa
tion has come front Mexican 'sources.
Military authorities, however, clung
to the belief that some time during
the night General Pershing's report
giving the American version of the
affair would, be received and would
do much toward relcxing the border
tension.
12 Americans Believed Lost.
It seemed fairly well established.
i however, that the Mexican official re
I ports fixing the American Josses at
; 12 dead and 17 prisoners and the
TriniicanrI Jnin Can-arm Col-! Mexican casualties at four killed and
ri !
CARRIZAL CLASH
HELPS RECRUIT
HPflPHlC
ILAIUMIU
... ,..,, v..,..,,...-...-. . .,. Tk.l. I.... . . . . t .... .... .
Troop H of the Tenth Cavalry Capt- ..uuua .KWa.. ...t. ( American garrison 10 ;,(u. rem use marcn lowarn tne east at 4 o cloe th
aina Boyd and Moore. ,LieuL ' Adair : asain.st :ar. a,re based ol,el', on the f the sudden mounting members of ! next morning.
iraiuru iii'-ii: in , if I.ordcr cuaril in .iiL-a t-s. Sonora ' r"rr" their ttosiliiin in front r Car.
rranza govern-' and the denarture of manv native resi-: rizal. the rommsnder of the ttch-
Mexicans. ' "-": "'"; dents ot tne city, w nen no response ment believed by General Persbing
He said that he saw on the field way ut: ' nice i na'' been rece,VP1 toniRnt the civil to have been Captain P.iyd. :ne he
the dead bodies of lioyd and Adair Mexican Version Only So Far. guard, organized yesterday main- was senior in rank to Captain MonJy.
lie iumubi iiiciurni, 01 coiuse, ,-inH a ntrl ,,f the town in CO-OO- sent f.irwBrH'o Mnimn eui10 i
Overshadows now all other develop- .ith th h,.avv ,lards being -i.rp fr.,..i the command ..r th v..
about the municipal water lean irarrison their permission to pass
through the own.
Parley Wanted.
tured. I , ' . ; General Felix Gome sent word back
be when General Pershing's report
and at least eleven of the negroes.
Salisbury's account, as given out,
follows:
Story of Fight.
menis. Aiiiiuugu iney nave oniy .ex-; nir j
i works.
lean reports to go on, ofticials do not
'We left Casas Grandes on Sunday i "u""u" !lJln,,",ls l,1Jl ",a"y '-, Mexicans Callev to Country. .
morning, arriving outside Carrizal , O'nen were killed, wounded 'or cap- Mexican Consul Oelado tonight;
early Wednesday morning. : ,f," . ! announced the receipt of orders from:
"Captain lioyd immediately des- ''atever the facts may prove to the Mpxican foreisn offire to oaM on
patched a courierto the jefe politico "-" , " all Mexicans in the No;;ales district
of the little
we were Vn
m a A -i
a rta ..a ko.i rira ,,., ,u t!mu studied.
Lieut. Colonel Rivas came out and
village, advising him that . " il is rtain that no steps to-1 M , , orcp Xo
, our way to VilU Ahau-I rpPritia be taken at 1-ast, ordr wa8 oflr..a.
;un I that report has been carefully, . Un,twl Sljltwl C().
To Demand Release.
'sul in the Mexican town .tonight tele-
hv t':e gnide that the Americans
might puss through if they would
consent to a parl-r. Without wait
inc (or tb commander of the Ameri
can ,force to reply. General Garues. ae
c':ipani"d by fn aide appeared and
graphed General P. Klias Calles. mili-i
warned Cantr. in HovH th.it he had une oi me nrsi actions, nowever. " . ro - t,w thnt talk with htm
better turn back
. , tl American officer rode forward to
Was No Parley, But Trick.
will h f HamMnit tha li.u ..f th 'ary goeniiir i .-..!..
,n uoya men, - ;r." . . . " ;
explained that he was in pursuit ot ,,.. K'termine the wherealiouts ot five. hi they were talking, the men
a result of ' Americans who left Cananea on Mon isj.tr! the Mexican troops moved for-
io,t cor,., i. ,.!... .i "ot.. any immediate move as
IUV711 11 'llllllk J I II Ul 1 IV ...... ... . I ,
... ' ttilrlotkt CnnHiv at Mutation '
uuiiun in nuru a lU'ni iip.-ut piui w , ... ' 1 thmnph th ninnntH ns to tllP ast Of , minfof that fhr- nMUMinul An-w
.w 'tir Aipxiran Hntnifirs mnnf n 1111- -
Mlny in an attempt to reach th bonier ward in force and deployed in uch
, hi
Ors Oince right. UbregOIl Whether the American commander.
IV.U. D..n.:k;i;.'r F. whom some renorts placed as among
Denies Responsibility ror,the dad wgs Canfain ,wi8 s Mor.
The Fijfht ry or ai,,ain fharles T. Boyd, as
6 (indicated by conflicting reports from
(By Review Leased Vvire.i the ie,,, is sti" a mn,ter of sperula
EL PASO. June 22.-Consul Garcia! ,ion' s adron Go t0 Hel
announced that 1,000 volunteers fori Thp (llladrnn of the Klpvpnth ravl.
the Carranza army, being enrolled in; w,,,,.n GonPrai pershing des
Chihuahua. had been recruited ffjiu patcnpd Iast niaht to rPiIlforre the
the civilian population today follow- froop of t!)p Tpn(h cavaIr. whi(.h wa
ing the publication or yesterdays bat-,pngaep,, gh(JuH hayp rpa,.hp(1 tnP vi.
tie. He said drilling of these pre- (Continued on Page Eight.)
paratory to their incorporation intoj
the army of the north would begin! aarn,n . t,n r,
immediately. The consul also issued j A PJtWl, A M tiff
the following statement: nlllUIIIUnllU I LLL
no surprise attacks from the Mexican! CAN PFflRfl ARI7HWA
side of the Rio Grande. Roth the,
civil and military population of Juarez'
and vicinity have strict instructions
to maintain peace and quiet until j
war is declared."
S'jme Interest, but little apprehen
sion was attached to the last sentence I
of the statement which seemingly left
an open intimation that the Carran-!
zistas planed to attack the city in the
event of hostilities.
Boasts Of Mexicans Of Prom
ised Raid, Drive Fami
lies To Tombstone
hn hftil hcarfl 111 V:t!i A lill:rln!:i.
"In replv to this Lieutenant Uivas . tovokcu , attacK on American mue-,
notiUed the American that if he at- ,'cfcets. according to an official re-1
tempted to advance he would have com nanuer 01 m- kiimu...h
to pass 'over the dead bodies of the ! Annanr "8
m. ;,.,. n ..iv;Uoi h T.oth cases have been
had better not argue the matter.
"Rivas returned to the village to
report to his
Gomez, who sen
the Americans to enter Carrizal for
a conference. Captain Boyd declined
this invitation.
"On this General Gomez went out
in person and insistently urged the
(Continued on page two)
.
VILLA, JUAREZ VISITOR
(By Review Leased Wire.
TOMBSTONE. Ariz.. June 22.
Well informed More than a score of American fam-
persons, however, put little credence; il'e nav" fled from their homes neai
in this IntemretatlVin of the state- . "e Dounnary line souin 01 i-e
menL ;dro. Arizona, because of threatened
A message from General Alvaro raids from the Mexican side by forces
Obregon, Mexican minister of war, seeking horses and supplies. One of
containing a denial of the reports that the refugees who arrived here today
he had Issued a statement today say-'tat(d that Mexican soldiers at Oel
ing he was responsible for the Carrizal , Rio Sonora. were boasting that they
engagement and had Ordered Mexican easily could raid these ranches as no
forces to attack the Americans, was, United States soldiers were stationed
received at the military cuartcl inn the district. .
Juarez tonight The dispatch asserts Autoomohiles sent from here and
that the war minister knew nothing from Bisbee brought many of the
of the engagement until be received Americans from their ranches in the
official reports last night and pointed threatened district. Few of them
out that bis subordinate commanders brought away more than a few per
acted upon their own initiative. ' sonai belongings.
EL PASO. June 22. Fran
cisco Villa has been in Juarez
several times in the last four
weeks, according to reports
received by agents of the Un
ited States secret service to
night. This story was given
some support by the arrival of
Mrs. Luz Villa in El Paso yes
terday, who subsequently was
deponed lo Mexico. The same
reports said that Villa was
seen in a public plaza in t lii
hu;ihua City alHJUt three weeks
ago. wearing a heavy black
beard. Governmental agents,
while making every attempt to
trace the origin of the rumor,
were inclined to place little
credence in it.
Mexican authorities in Juar
ez denied the story.
the town. iff th American forc being surmund-
Feara for Smelter Men. d. One of the men who had been
Fears were exorosseri- here that the ; h-,M"" th hnrs of the American
i men. Ceorge Prince, of San Diego: officers and the man who had ridden
ofliciatlT Harry innrs'on. oi nmw, i . for ant witn him. sum tne American
er appeared to protest agiMr.t
toit'ons on.ival Goto.! troops
inutcs later.
toward one
and imme
rtirt'-v sfter getting there the Mexi
j cans began to stta V. swelling the
j American line w ith a machine gun.
' Withheld Fire Long.
It was not until then, according to
;the strsiglers. that the American
! commapder tave orders tor both
, troops to dismount and return the
; fire.
- General Pershing said that twfor
fBv Review Leased Wir.l ' : that he and Parks and Dickson were the Americans t.ft the extvditVm
DOUGLAS. Ariz.. June 22. Jim crossing the ranch. While cutting a both he and Mskir Kvuns of th
P;irk. an old prospector ,was killed , fence to get out of the country, they Tenth eavalrv cautioned the com-
and Norton Hand, an American min-: were accosted by Mexican cowboys, manding officer to be very careful
Ing man. was taken into custody and The three foreigners offered to tv
was in danger of being executed by for damages to the fence but their
I called to the attention of the United1 Pan Carter, of Oklahoma, and A. D. yfj,
State hv the Carrnn -a aovernment's ! Williamson and John Gaillard. of hi th
s oerior office I uP,,Pr" ambassador-lesignate Eliseo Arredon-' Paso. Texas, have died of exposure , rP t-n.,,. A fw -I
,ent "ut T note in, Tunl (Continued on page two) ' (Continued on Page) .General Garnet rode off
leni jut a note muting i, nf fiA Mexican line
AMERICAN KILLED
A nTHFR
IMPRISOIIED HEAR NACOZAftl
the Mxicn authorities as the result : money was refused and the Mexicaus
of a fight with Mexicans yesteroay : atteu.otcd to disarm them by force.
'7 n-iles west of Cumins according Shooting followed.
to information brought here bv Amer
ican refugees from Nacozari. '7 miles
south of here.
United S'sf's militarv authorities i
snt renresentaf ives to General P
KHps Calles.
Hand was taken to the .iail a -Na
cozsri last night arrivals stated.
not to provoke a fight.
Squadrons Go to Help.
General Pershing had received no
pew of the two squadrons of the
Eleventh cavalry he sunt out thft
morning to get in touch with the
troops that were at Carrizal. Staff
Hand has been a mining man in
Mexico and Arizona for many years
ttP Ik a man of considerable wealth.
Parks, a carpenter who has been I officers here calculated that Ibe re
nrosnectinir in the vicinitv of Huepiu-.1 lief paitv should reach the r-ninant
, was a resident of Douglas. Dickson Is f the little detachment late tonight
half owner of the Washington mine at r tomorrow morning. It was as
: Huepac and also a resident of Doug- fumed that because the two troops
Th ivtePn men remaining at the tas. He came here from San Fran- were returning witn their wounded.
Fl Tigre mine when the majority of cisco. where his relatives live. progress was necessarily slow and
the Americans there left reached here Dickson was wounded during the) that the relief party would have to
eaiiv todav in automobiles. first battle at Aaua Prieta. five years travel almost the ontire distance
... I , sKo and is understood to have an in- trom tne Mexican line or commnnl-
30 CARS OF TROOPS j DOUGLAS. Ariz.. June 22. Accord- demnity claim pending against the cations to Carrizal. some SO miles.
COMING VIA YUMA(lnR to later information brought here Mexican government. , General Pershim manifested sur-
. !the fight occurred on the Elias ranch., A Japanese arriving in Agua Prif j prise in his reports early today over
(By Review Leased Wire.) ' f,.w miles cast of Arispe, a t'- today reported that William Baker, the renort that the officers of the
YUMA. Ariz.. June 22 Thirty-one foreigner, A. R. Dickson, a British! an American prospector, had been ; troop hd precipitated the ensafe
nrioads of American soldiers pasued subject, taking part. Dickson was brought into Nacozari unconscious ; rnent He told General Funston in
throush Yunia toniebt en route to wounded and is believed now at ! from the effect of a bullet wound in j his report that all of his men tad re.
border pointn east of here. The dent!- Arispe. his foiehead. It was stated in Nscn ict lvcd th most positie orflets wt
nation of the troops was not revealed. ' Hand told them, arrivals here ssy. zari that Baker had attempted Miicide (Continued on page S)
