gincuhi
$mntp
lender.
VOLUME 24 TOLEDO, LINCOLN COlMlY, OREGON, FRIDAY. JUNE 23, 1916 NUMBER 18
" ' i 1 1 i i i i , .I, . I. " - - 111 , " ;
CCll TIMTTV MFh tQ News "of eadi Community Gathered each
J LJlIl l nDUO week by Our Hustling Associate Editors
"i "
i
Woodcraft is hard to excell, j day.
NEWPORT ', everyone Is made to feel at home j Reynolds amart departed for
, and no roughness or disorder is Salem Thursday morning where
; allowed. The very air seems to i he will stay indefinitely.
At the Annual School Meeting permeated with good will and i Mr. end J v. Ball and 3on de-
of District No. 3 held on June 19 friendship. A light luncheon (parted for their home in St. Paul,
6amual G. Irvin was elected di- of cake and ice cream
rector for the term of thre! served.
4
SILETZ
Saturday evening, June 17th, I
me msnwiie players presented
School el':
quietly hero,
fleers were -Thos.
Dark'
tor for thuc
Th03. Brow:..
Mrs. T. Lire
Barker Tue:-
Every bo'1
the big pieni
to be held ;n
Sunday, Janr
and bring y
young men will be local corres- Mr. and ?i:
. .1 ..... C . 1 tAnlnn .1 il I I"nnDI T ' O i " .
POOLE SLOUCH
Thos. Bv -. made a flying
trip to Toledo Tuesday.
on parsed rather
71ie following of
rted: Clerk, Mrs.
re-elected; direc
ear term, Mrs.
years and Charles A. Bickford, Will II. Burton went to Eu-re-elected
clerk. A special levy gene Wednesday morning to de
of seven mills was voted to raise liver an address at the Supcrin
money enough to run the school tendents Convention that fs be
for another year. The budget ing held at the University of Ore
prepared by the Board of Direc- gon subject, Normal Training
tors requires for the ensuing in the High Schools of Oregon",
year to run the school for all Mr. Burton has given this sub
purposes, $14,645.00. This in- ject much thought and no doubt
eludes the County School Fund, the address will be very interest
State School Fund and all the ing. Mr. Burton has been a
money of the District. It is the teacher in the McMinnvlllo High
desire of the Trustees to keep School during the past year. lie
the Public School up to a high is spending his vacation with hi3
Etate of efficiency and this can parents at Newport, lie will be
only be done by employing high local correspondent for the Ore
grade teachers cheap teachers gon Journal while here,
are dear at any price. The peo- Leslie and Iainar Tooze with
pie in Newport take grat inter- their sister are spending their
est in the Public School and this vacation at Newport. ine
was attested bv the larse num
ber of tax-navers who attended nondents for the Oresonian and 'Upper Bea
the meeting over one hundred other papers while here. Mr. Woods and .!
votes being cast. The High Lamar Toozo was with Henry Mrs. Meyers
School had fifty pupils and the Ford while on his peace mission i vicinity Su.v
Public School about two hun- to Europe. Mr. Tooze can tell ( Mr. ant' Ji
dred and fifty. The School some interesting stories about i and children
Board has not elected all the this trln. Mr. Ford did not have Brown home
teachers for the coming year, much influence upon the warr
It is believed that as we have an ing nations of Europe but we
Agricultural College the Manual had a rich experience that will be
Training and Mechanical Draw- of great benifit to him in after
lnrt ilnnarf tvmnta niicht ho fill m- lifo Tho Tnr7P hrntherR. with
inaterl from the Public School their sister were students in the I
that the force of teachers might University cf Oregon during the j trip to Yaquina Wednesday
be reduced and the time for past year. Newport with its
teaching extended a little longer, clean beaches, beautiful scenery
Some of the fads and frills of and healthful climate is a good
our school might be left out with place for students to ppend their
benefit and more energy put out vacations.
o
was Minn Wpclnr i-flnv nftr a wapUb the COmedv drama Th Srnfnt
I visit with Mr. rftl Mrs. Joe Lissy. i me uovernment School House t
,to a large and appreciatvie aud
ience. The different characters
'were well rendered and a total
absence of the usual amature
ish hesitations was noticable.
The parts of leading lady by Mis3
Crystal Warnock and leading
man by carl Edwards were good;
Hon. Augustus Cholmondelay by
vn visited Mrs. T.
y.
remember about
nd entertainment
'lie school house,
J-jth come early
r friends along,
i. .1. M. Bowers, of
pnd Mr. and Mrs.
i'dren and Mr. and
The Nashville Club Players
PRESENTS
"THE SERPENT"
Comedy-Drama Success Adapted from the French
"La Malson du Marl."
at the
Dime Theatre Friday, June 30
Not a Picture Show but a Real Red Blooded Production I
Twelve Song-Hit Specialties
Prices 25 and 35 cents
D. F. Lister was chawmlngly key skinner had business in Elk by auto Sunday,
handled, don't cher know. E. S. City Monday. , Mr. Manny of Portland ar-
Lister is some villian the vil- We note a fine open air dance rived in Siletz Saturday after
lian's part is always the part of floor in Elk City, the first dance noon by team and is a guest nt
the under dog, so to speak, and being last Friday night. the hotel King. While here he
consequently it takes more con-' There was another one of will do some carpenter work for
fldence and poise to stand the those social picnics held near J. D. Guiss on his hointfKi
.AAAtA . 1. I; T T 1 1 i i . . . .. l Ul
,uiu i cucjjuuu ui me uuuience. nanau msi. oumiay everyone mts. ueo. Miller is reported
Mrs. Merryweather, a widow, the having a fine time and lots to improving very slowly.
uiciij wiuuw, vLue luu.aua K"ij -- , ii'wynn and Searles
was certainly nne ana Miss Mar- uoost tor tne Harlan fair.
as
Miss Ine:
V.
s. Frank Shermer
vere guests at the
"unday evening.
Weaver returned
from Chitwood Sunday.
Viven, Yb'-t and Floyd Hall
visited Ida. Habel and Walter
The Tooze brothers, with Brown Sunday evening.
Willard l)"ntsucker made a
in mastering the lessons and
solving the problems in school,
and less energy expended in
games of ball and other sports.
The modern tendency of teach
ing in our schools is less work
and more fun. The young man
or young woman who comes out
of school and is willing to don
their plain clothes and go to
work to make a living, will be
more successful than th; one
who is looking for a soft snap.
Our schools are getting top
heavy with the tremendous out
lay of money, a halt should be
called some where. The student
6hould be taught to be strong
o
are ken-
Vei'V busv flnlnir l.l-i r.l,r.t.u
tha Hagar who handled the part Don't be a knocker. What's the work here up curly ai d lae to
made a. derided hit. The songs matter with our Harlan corres- keep the work from pil'iiV un
Miss Hagar, Mr. EJward3 and pondent work for the fair it It. A. Arnni,t w v ii
' Ona were in our Mr. Lister were good and were so will help us all. and Ceo. McCluskev each came
pleasing to the audience that en- o over with an auto load and were
core after encore had to be ans-, Joined by W. IL Halls and cou-
wered. This outfit carries its ORTON ;tinued on to Upper Farm for a
own special scenery. Come and i picnic.
see us again, you are welcome at . " . Andrew Porter, Frank Wade
any time. ! . Cut er loose and let er ramble, and Newt Center came ov ?n
Sunday's base ball game at ans ana l,oui calahan de- siletz bv auto lam v.-iiii.--
Ortons between Nortons and Up- parted l uesuay morning for the ! '
per Farm resulted in a score of noundup at Philomath, taking:
19 to 18 in favor of Nortons lueir race norses wnn tnem. i
some ball game the errors of Johnnie Williams departed i BUTTERMILK CAMP NO. 1
commission and ommission were Tuesday morning for the Round-
so numerous that the official UP at Philomath, being man- w,i i.r wo ara nfr. ,,
scorer has writers cramp as a re- ager of the Indian affairs. Wte (BUt
Buit, Messrs. sniitn ana uaner "-anuv was an ip-i Ja(lk ,( . ' i.u j
,,,11 ,i th ,mo vn n wna per Farm visitor Sundnv n. ,i',.acK 1 ro8t niade a" uninvited
..... t,.... .v 1 can at our
BUTTERMILK CAMP NO. 1
this
HARLAN
The Stork visited the home of
Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Hathaway
A little to much rain in
neek-o-the-v,oods.
A number u om the camp went
to the Strv berry Festival at-
Chitwood Sunday as usual
everyene enjoyed him self. Mr.
Wildman certainly has a fine col
within himself and not lean on a doctor in regard to Mrs. Cat
last week a id left them a little I lection of bi ; ; ics 3ome twenty
daughter. Mother and baby are I two varieties on exhibition, all
doing nicely. ! grown on the Riverside Fruit the hm has beeil completed and This chool
rtl lUe Bl'IIUUl IllUL'llllg ill llie lU'W (UIIUII11K
Grant D!st. Mrs. It. F. Crant was prize were the "Goodell
elected clerk and H. F. Briggs
director.
Mr. and Mrs. Cha3. Cator re
turned on the 19th from a trip
to Sweet Home, Lbicoln County,
where they had been to consult
some one else.
The Chautauqua will be here
from July Kith to the 21st six
days. The big tent will be put
up on the 15th it covers a large
snace and has no holes in it.
The Advance Agent and organ
izer, Mr. Paget, of the Chautau
or's health,
Dr. Harry Anderson of Cor
vallis was in last week to attend
Mrs. R. L. Hathaway.
Mrs. Lester January is home
form the hospital where she un
derwent an operation. Her many
friends are pleased to know of
mm l.n-noii M:aa horo TVInmlnv Iler TLCOMry.
evening and made all arrange-! Mr. Itoven and Mr. Scott, of
ments for the coming of the big .Corvallis came in on the stage
show. The agent promises six it week for a fishing trip
days of the finest entertainment ! .he picnic held near the home
that can be produced-some of ' VU rant Sunday was re
the best speakers and greatest very enjoyable affair,
musicians will be here to enter- I The farmers are smiling over
tain. The Hungarian Orchestra the, showers which have been
and Boston Lyric Singers will be .vl8'll1,R us: , , , ,
worth more than the price of t he i I'H 1 IwIbbb of Salado made a
ticket. Season tickets, $2.50. 'P to the Adams home Sunday
entitles its holder to hear every to investigate "That Stump Pul
munber of this great educational ir" which seems of general Int
feast. The grounds will be put, crest
in first class condition condition j John Abbey, stock buyer of
and every thing possible will be Corvallis. waH looking for stock
done to make it a season of .hi our valley this week.
l.Wsure, socially and intellect-1 The people of the Antloch dis-
uallv. A ik crowu is expeciuu i,m v v
" Jna.Ml In.. s.rl ..mwl. I... nil ti I r
near tho old school site and ex
tending to the Harris place, a
to be prcEcnt.
"Newport will celebrate tho 4th
!n a becoming nnu patriotic way,
to c" ect funds and make nr-i "K which the people o llar
1? ..r n l.ir r,.lpt,mtlon who travel that way will cor
astldsispeVuilaHym "cm a
vote of
time when the world is in war
to crush the people, exterm.nate
liberty and establish upon its
ruins, monarchy and Imperial
ism. The United States is hold
ing up the lamp of Liberty,
backed by one hundred millions
of brave people. "Oh can you
Star Spangled Banner.
Long may it wave over the land
I, . , ,. . . . ,
ONA
Miss Nellie V. King of Oyster
City Is visiting at the Phelps
home this week.
The annual school meeting
rr Dm free and the home of the i was held at the Ona school
uravPi" j house Monday afternoon. Mrs.
The Wonvn of WoodCrartM U I'a'ks was elected to fill
eve a dance and card party at, the vacancy made by C. S. Oh
thclr hall Tuesday evening, after I mart. S. A llolmgrecn was re-
the close of a Bhort session or
the Ixidgc. About fifty persons
were present. The orchestra
furnished the music and for
BweetnesB and melody it seemed
to be better than usual. But for
genuine hospitality and socia
bility I think the Women of
tiful dark red berry. The
took second and the F
William, third. Other prizes
were given tor races, etc. We
hope for another one next year.
Mr. siting visited the home
folks at Orivj:i over Sunday.
Mrs. Andcisen, Mrs. Hanson,
Mrs. Fern and Miss Hand visited
Mrs. Weaver at the camp Sat
urday afternoon.
Miss Inez Weaver returned to
school at Poole Slough Satur
day after a weeks visit with her
parents at the camp.
Frank Ward is again at the
camp after being called home by
sickness three weeks ago.
Joe Kekua is home this week
on sick-leave.
Mr. Udel is back at work again
after being unable to work on
account oi a lame horse,
o
FIECLES CREEK
r.. m,i - " uur cam last Kr dnv
gaajKMa pJ0 sggj&s
' We notice that Merchants Upper Farm was a good game, te4lt Ualher a
Windred and Davis have oiled 20 and 19 in favor of Nortons. T, ',.,.. . ....
the street in front of their res- Sunday was an off day for thc!ca JjSft vlL
pective places of business ; great Upper Farm players. an would h?vl S y nn
dust eradica.or. ' .The new school house in ' SuLhf" P
The new Government bam on district (i'J looms up greatly. nM l Z ."l.1
)ol house will be of the i ... " " ""u. ' ' " l" De
UJ uiim iiiBiu-u n me piace.
er burn-
roof. This
OUSP hna
. .
vuusiii nre in a month.
ing first tractors Hoeflein have gone latest types of school building a7 ..IIiZi r
ubeau- home : the country and we all feel Z tVJfi i VI af 6
le Dunlap JueJge Millcr and 80n vlsite(, proud of It. Mr. Haley of Falls J, J
Freemont ug moday t0 looU over thc road Cit v Is doing th work.. p L1,f Z l1'!"!, U1
WOrK. "auwuui. .a iMiuuiiiK a Tim Il,,n,l
We never have any circus new milk house and probably a 'do lldav
parades here but at that we see fiarage, having Oca Iloellein do, . (;..wl v .
things that the average citizen the work. I fti L6-. -n wa3 a
i)t the big towns never dream of Mr. Eiickson of Silverton was ; iri ' ,r i ' i lt
tho Rtonni rol er and two a uustnes cauer at L nner Farm ' . ' . v" i'""' 11 u" l"e
traction pnirlnes nulline the dis- Monday. i,0,;7 "imonf:!1R Monday.
trict donkey engine over the Homer Evans came home
county road, moving it from Sunday morning from Butter
John Woodman ford to Oscar milk Camp No. 1.
Woods at Klamath grade. Some ! Milter Collins and John Pon
style to our part of the country, Rpe departed for the Round-up
two auto trucks each making . Tuesday.
two daily triiis from Toledo, i The Parents-Teachers Assoc-
clocted clerk
Mr. and Mrs. C. M. Myers and
Mr. and Mrs. II. J. Wood and
children spent Sunday on Poole
Slough.
J. F, Hanlon was over from
Yaqulna to attend the school
meeting on South Beaver Mon-
Mrs. Henry Martin and Miss
Celeste Martin were calling heie
last Thursday.
Frank Davis, of Harlan,
brought Mj wood saw hre last
week for thc benefit of our peo
ple. Mrs. Ralph Darting and fam
ily visited .Vis. Garrison Sunday.
Mr. Kessi is expecting his fam
ily home. -
Mr. Lindley Is at Recks Creek.
Geo. Titus Is In the Califor
nia oil field.).
Blanche and Percy Mulvany
went to Harlnn Saturday to se
lect a cow from the Davis herd
best fitted for mountain climb
ing. They selected a red Dur
ham heifer and calf as they are
very cnthuiiiastlc about the red
cattle for tl-,3 especial section.
Geo. Darling Is cutting wood
for the Hchool.
Mrs. Daniels has been on tho
sick list.
Clarence Davis was here Tues
day. F. L. Mulvany !s working for
I. R. Payne shearing sheep.
FOR SALE MOTOR BOAT
10 feet, 3 H.P., in good condi
tion, apply to T. P. Fish.
o
FOR SALE
Team, buggy and harness
$150.00. Fred Taylor
to play Corvallis at Toledo Sun- , the rain.
day. June 25. I Matthew Williams returned
1 -1
We have our new Reservation "ollie r"nuay irom i;usnman,
doctor. Dr. Cooper of Carson .Washington,
I MiSS IllOZ U'cnvor lo t loltl
her parents at the camp this
week.
Leonard Evans went to Orton
Sunday to play ball with the Or
ton boys.
Cal Summers went to Toledo
With the completion of our road lation held a meeting in the Rock j V P w w 7 , , .
system Lincoln County will be Creek school house June 17. it ! L ua Wn '"ade Mrs.
a veritable paradise for automo- Mng well attended. A program , "eenr f ,8a.nt. cal' ?n Jher
biles i was rendered. to Lhitwood last Monday
Attorney Clark of Corvallis! Joe Streltmatter called at Up-1"!!!,0' . . ,
was here the first of the week on per Farm Saturday morning. ! ' e."P rel ,f
business i Ji' McGuiro is rushing the rphh b,ar "leat when the Cook
Siletz ball team Is scheduled season ly cutting his hay before , V , ""?. . .L "' l"u.,r 'P
night. It has been bothering
the neighborhood sheep and was
In fine condition.
Jack Hand left for the Vn'ley
Tuesday morning, leaving from
Chi I wood.
Mr. Eltlng and brother went
to Chitwood Sunday for liny and
oats. The road will soon be open
through so it will not be such a
problem to get over there, the
illstance being so much less to
Chitwood than Toledo, the camp
supplies will all be purchased
there even the buttermilk bo
here's hoplnc Chitwood w'n
build a creamery, ua nothlnor
stronger Is allowed In this c;mip.
Miss Myrtle Wenver Is on the
flick list this week, sulTerlng
from a severe sore throat.
Mrs. Pollen wns a Toledo vis
itor Tuesday afternoon iiiaklnn-
: rather a record trip walking
Jinn ways.
City New, who takes the place
of Dr. M. F. Clausius, deceased.
o
SALADO
Frank Lane Is hauling lumber
for K. T. Raddant Mils week.
James Bollie of Falls City got
bis contract for teacher ii. Dist.
G!i.
SILETZ
f"
Things are rather dull here;,
now days, there being an old
fellow visiting In this vicinity the
first week in the month by the Siletz was honored by a fine
name or Jack Frost. He came 'play Saturday ni;;ht, put on by
along the river taking beans and home talent by the Nashville
potatoes as he went which is players entitled, "The Serpent",;
very unusual for Lincoln County, a comedy-drama, under the;
Then came two weeks of unus- management of D. F. Lister, of;
ually hot weather, from 75 to Nashville, with the help of C. D.
100 In the shade but then the Edwards, Miss Crystal Warnock,
beautiful rain Is falling today to Miss Martha Hager and E. S.
make up for it. j Lister w hich was enjoyed by a
We note several grnngers from , full' house.
Elk City took In the Pomona I Siletz roads are Improving all
Grange at Toledo last week, the time. As they are through
Thc grangers of the county hauling rock over towards Tole
passed a resolution to ask the do road they nre now moving
County Court to get busy with their rock crusher and engines
that bridge across the bay at' up to Klamath grade and will
Toledo, me vote wan unani
nioiiB Willi the exception of one, where I hey unit nt (I. A. Ollns
brother from Elk City. nnd will rock as far as they can
School meeting passed off In. this summer,
the dlatrlcts near here without j Mr. and Mrs. Sheffield and son
the loss of any lives last Monday. ; and Miss Roar of Newport came
C. A. nrown purchased a nice over by team enroute to Euchre
flock of sheep of W. N. Cook of , Creek for a weeks outing.
Chitwood last week. W. S. Hall and Bensell took a
Roy Kouiib, the wrestling don- load of plcnlccrs to Lower Farm
TWO TRAINS A DAY
Beginning next Monday, the
2(ith, the Southern Pacific- will
put on its double train sci-vIca
commence hauling rock to join be! ween the Valley and Newport.
-1M . .......
i uu new train win operate on
the same schedule as last year,
arriving at Toledo at 11:20 A.M.
and 2:25 P.M.
Miss Sophia Warnock of Port
land visited last week with Mr.
and Mrs. J. R. Turnldge la this
