WW r% • m
Hope Persists Among Officials of Both Comities That War Will Be Averted
HARRISBURG ifßfpjg TELEGRAPH
LXXXV — No. 144
MILITIA REGIMENTS WILL BE RUSHED TO
LINE SOON AS EQUIPPED AND MUSTERED
EACH UNIT TO
BE FORWARDED
AS COMPLETED
Secretary of War Issues Order Which Will Do Away With
Whole Brigades or Divisions Going in Body; Object
Is to Avoid Delay and Red Tape in Getting Troops
Into Motion; Gen. Funston Will Indicate Where He
Wants Men Sent
OFFICIALS WILL NOT DISCLOSE REASON
THAT HAS CAUSED THIS SUDDEN STEP
Expected to Result in Immediate Movement Towards Bor
der of Separate Regiments From Many States Whose
Entire Guard Has Not Been Assembled; WtU Go For
ward in Order in Which They Become Ready For
Service
Sfestal to the Telegraph
Washington, June 23.—Secretary Baker to-day issued orders to
all army departmental commanders to send to the Mexican border
all militia available immediately upon their organization without
waiting for completion of the mobilization of the separate States.
The commanders were requested to notify General Funston
when each regiment, troop, battery or other unit completes muster.
General Funston will indicate where he wishes the forces sent in
each instance and the departmental commander, without further
instruction from Washington will arrange transportation and send
them forward.
Expect Immediate Movement
The announcement of the new orders was made officially after
to-day's cabinet meeting but it was understood that they actually
had been issued before the cabinet convened. No explanation was
offered for the change in the original plan to send a part of the avail
able guardsmen at present and officials would not disclose whether
news of any important developments in Mexico had caused the step.
The original orders to the guardsmen were for their mobili
zation in State concentration camps to await further orders. The
War Department had planned to call upon the States which effected
the best and earliest complete mobilization, having regards to the
time for transportation.
Must Report Mobilization Progress
To-day's orders are expected to result in the immediate move
ment toward the border of separate regiments from many States
whose entire National Guard strength has not been assembled.
By the new order, mustering officers in the various depart
ments are instructed to submit to the departmental commanders re
ports 011 the progress being made by each National Guard organi
zation with its mobilization. On the basis of these reports the de
partment heads will be able to indicate to General Funston the ap
proximate time when each regiment or other unit under their juris
diction will be ready for service and consult his desire as to the
point to which eacTi shall be sent. Regiments will go to the front
in the order in which thev become readv for service.
The entire operation will be carried out between General Funs
ton and the departmental commanders. The object aimed at is to
eliminate all unnecessary delay and red tape in getting the guards
men to the front.
At the State Capitol it was said that the order of Secretary
Raker meant that as soon as any regiment was mustered in and was
equipped it could be sent to Mexico without waiting for the com
pletion of a brigade or the division. The order will not interfere
with the mobilization at Mt. Gretna.
REPORT SECOND
BATTLE RAGING
FAR IN MEXICO
By International News Service.
El Paso. Texas. June 23. Reports
of a second battle between American
and Mexican troops near Carrizal were
received here to-day. They lacked
confirmation from any official source,
but were credited in some quarters.
General Pershing is known to have
sent two squadrons of the Eleventh
Cavalry to the relief of the negro
troopers of the Tenth who were
treacherously attacked on Wednesday,
f Continued on Page 11]
(Other Mexican New* Pn«e* 10 & 11)
THE WEATHER
Far Harrlaburg and vlclnltri Fair
to-nlghti Saturday partly oioudyi
Bat much change In temperature.
For Eastern Pennsylvania! Fair to
night) Saturday partly cloudyi
not Meli change In temperaturei
moderate weat winds becoming
light and variable.
Hirer
The Susquehanna river and all Its
tributaries will continue to fall
ahrwly. A stage of about 7-8
feat Is Indicated for Harrlsburg
Saturday Morning.
BY CARRIERS « CENTS A WEEK.
MMHI.E COPIES a CENTS.
WILSON RECEIVES
MEAGER REPORTS
OF FIRST FIGHT
By Associated Press
| Washington. D. C.. July 23.—A pre
liminary report lrom General Pershing
i on the Carrizal fight, based on stories
told by straggler; reaching the head
quarters of the American expedition
I Me * ,can rumors, was taken to
| the "White House early to-dav by Sec
retary Baker.
The Secretary said General Pershing
i himself did not regard the report as
nn official statement of what had hap
| pened and indicated that no attempt to
aeciae the course to be pursued by the
fContinued on
$17,000,000 Increase in
Defense Appropriation
Special to the Telegraph
Washington, June 23. The fortifi
cations appropriation bill cart-vine-
534,300,000 for defenses and for both
field and coast artillery, ordnance and
ammunition, was passed by the House
yesterday, 165 to 9. Its total is an
increase of about $17,000,000 over last
year's bill.
An amendment by Representative
Ta\ enner, designed to abolish stop
watch systems and to prevent the pay
ment of bonuses to labor in Govern
ment arsenals, was carried 197 to 115
after a hard fight. The amendment
has been urged by labor organiza
tion*
HARRISBURG, PA., FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE 23, 1916.
MAJOR GENERAL CLEMENT ARRIVES AT GRETNA
f ' ,'.' '' ' ' '^'''
MEN FROM EIGHTH FIRST ON THE GROUND
Major General Charles M. Clemen), of Sunbury, Division Commander of the National Guard of Pennsyl
vania. armed at Mt. uretna at 1 o'clock yesterday. He is shown in the top on the extreme left conferring with
Major tleon N. Berntheizel, Judge-Advocatr of Columbia. On the right is Lieutenant Colonel L. V. Rausch.
Deputy Quartermaster General, com-mander-in-ehief of the quartermaster's department, and in charge of the
State Arsenal. He is laying out the field with his men for.the Quartermaster's corps.
Below are men from the Eighth Regiment of which Companies D and I of this city form a part. They
were the iirst men on the Held to lay out their camp ground. From left to right: V. Grant Forrer. assistant
Park Commissioner, who took some of the men to Mt. Gretna; D. W. Green, cook; Quartermaster Sergeant E T
Bergenstock; Lieutenant R. C. Crow, battalion adjutant; Color Sergeant Jolir K. Spangler; Sergeant J. wiiit
tington, Major <" laudy, Battalion Sergeant; Lieutenant John Carrol; Battalion Quartermaster Commissary Ser
geant H. M. Gross and Captain and Junrter aster Edward H. Schell.
SPEND ANOTHER
I HALF MILLION
AT PENNA. STEEL
Pennsylvania Steel Co. An
nounces Big Improvements
For Steelton Plant
Announcement of an improvement
program entailing the expenditure of
more than $500,000 was announced
by the Pennsylvania .Steel Company
for its big plant at Steelton this morn
ing.
The program includes the remodel
ing of E furnace, known as No. 3
5
[Continued on Page 15]
CLEMENT OPENS
HEADQUARTERS
Eighth Regiment Advance
Guard Lays Out Camp For
Companies
Sptcial to the Telegraph
Camp Brumbaugh, Mount Gretna.
June 2 3.—Maior-General Charles M.
Clement, commander of the National
Guard of Pennsylvania, arrived here
at 1 o'clock yesterday afternoon from
Sunbury to take'eharge of the camp.
He opened headquarters at Hotel
Conewa«o. as the division headquar
ters were not set up until late yester
day afternoon end telephone connec
tions wore not in shape. Other mem
bers of the staff who arrived yester
day were Lieutenant-Colonel Frank M.
Vandling. of Scranton; Major Matthew
H. Taggart, of the inspector-general's
department.: Major Cleon N. Bern
thelzel, of Columbia ■ Major Walter C.
£ Continued uu Pace 4 J
DR. STINE MADE
MARSHALL OF BIG
TROOP FAREWELL
Chamber of Commerce and
Rotary Club Take Charge of
Formal Celebration
J. William Bowman, president of
the Harrisburg Chamber of Commerce,
and Howard C. Fry, president of the
Harrisburg Rotary Club, met at the
offices of the Chamber of Commerce
this morning: and made arrangements
for the farewell demonstration to be
Riven to-morrow for the troops who
[■Continued on Pajjc 10]
Parade Plans
Chief Marshal H. M. Stino thin
afternoon Issued Oils statement:
The Military Companies will
leave the Armory for the station
promptly at JO o'clock a. m. All
organizations who are participat
ing as an escort will report
promptly at corner Kecoiul ami
Forster at 9 o'eloek a. m.
The City Grays Veteran organ
ization will form in southwest
side of Forster street, right rest
ing in Second.
The Grand Army posts will form
in southwest side of Forster
street, right resting in rear of City
Grays Veteran Association.
The Spanish-American Veter
ans and the Foreign Service Vet
erans will form in southwest side
of Forster street, right resting in
rear of Grand Army posts.
The carriers and clerks of the
post office will form in north
east side of Forster street, right
resting In Second.
The Veteran Firemen's Associa
tion will form In northeast side of
Forster street, right resting in
rear of r»ost office clerks.
The Rotary Club and members
of Chamber of Commerce will
form on east side of North Sec
ond street, right resting in the
I Continued on Pace 1J
WESTERN LINES
ACTIVE DESPITE
DISPATCH OF MEN
Germans Attack Three Times
Along 1,200. Yard Front Near
Maisons-de-Champagne
Despite the absorption of such large
r ombers of their troops in the Verdun
operations and the reported dispatch
of considerable forces to cope with
the Russians on the eastern front, the
Germans are displaying activity along
other parts of the line in the west.
Yesterday they opened up heavily
[Continue*! on Page 8]
RELIEF FUND
PLANS SHAPING
Chamber of Commerce and
Rotary Club Act on Tele
graph's Suggestion
The appeal of the Telegraph for
tin emergency fund to be used in aid
of those dependent upon' the soldier
boys who are going to the front from
this city and vicinity has been gen
erally approved. Among the guards
men there was much favorable com
ment upon the spirit of the community j
as evidenced ir. the Telegraph's sug
gestion. When he heard of the appeal
J. W. Bowman, president of the Cham
ber of Commerce, addressed the editor- ■
in-chief of the Telegraph the following '
letter:
"Permit in" to commend Ihe j
steps taken lo raise a relief fund '
for the benedt of such dependents
of Harrlsbuik soldiers as may
need assistance while their rela- i
ICoulioued cm Face 9J
20 PAGES
HAVE WITNESS
WHO IDENTIFIES
HIPPIE'S SLAYER
Declares He.Saw Ehvood Wil
son Put Ball Through
Policeman's Heart
; TWO MEN A R REST E1)
! Police Nab Alleged Murderer
in Bed; Find Gun Wrapped
in Blanket
1 A witness was located this morning
I by the police who declares he saw Kl
j wood Wilson, colored, of 154 Ridge
j street, Steelton, murder Patrolman
Lewis C. Hippie, shortly after 1 o'clock
this morning near the Market street
subway.
Lero.v Aims, colored, 14 Cowden
street. Is the witness.
Wilson was arrested about 3 o'clock
this morning in his bed at Steelton by
<'hief of Police Zeil. Detectives Schel
: has, Shuler and Motorcycle Officer
j Hyl&n and Roundsman McCann. In
j his l>ed was found a "2 caliber re
volver. The gun was wrapped in a
j blanket.
Another negro, James White, was
arrested about an hour after the
shooting by Pennsylvania Railroad Of
ficers Greer. Rote and Miles and Citv
Roundsman McCann at Tenth and
Walnut streets. White confessed to
belnr with Wilson when the fatal shot
was fired, but insisted that he had not
sent the bullet through Hippie's heart.
According to the story of ihe mur
der as told by Arms to t'hief of Police
J. Thomas Zeil. Wilson and White last
evening had been arguing with an
Kdward Dixon and Arms because of a
discussion about Adella Parker, a
niece of Dixon's. It is believed Patrol
man Hippie learned of this and also
heard that the two men, Wilson and
White, went to Steelton and returned
[Continued on Pag;e 15]
T SEN AT' jS
i |
' Harrisburg. Upon invitation of J. William Bowman, 1
l president of the Chamber of Commerce, Senator E. E. 1
IBeidleman will deliver the farewell to the trooj I
departing from Harrisburg to-morrow. I
ENTIRE COMMAND MA\ BE WIPED OUT ?
San Antonio, Tex., June 23. From reports avaiial 1 I
late this afternoon it is by no means certain that Captains
Boyd's entire command v ed out in f
i Carrizal battle. I
* GENERAL TREVINO CRITICISES ARMY MEN \\
' Chihuahua City, June 23.—Criticism of Americat , ►
* tary men, who, 1
! tween Mexico and the United States, was made by Gem >
j f Jacinto Trevino, military commander oi the Northwest
, an interview with the Associated Press to-day.
«l Petrograd, June 23.—The war office to-day announc-1 |
( ed the capture of three villages west of Radanutz, thi : . j!
miles south of Czernowitz, the occupation of which was I
i reporttd yesterday. Eight hundred prisoners were I *
Washington, June 23.—1n an amendment to the HayJ |
< 1 resolution author ' *
I eral service immediately all National Guardsmen willing to
| I take the oath, the House 10-day unanimously declared thatl!|
, an emergency now existed necessitating a call on State i
< | troops. A section of the bill offered by Representative Hay !
< and also unanimously adopted, would appropriate not ex- '*i
ceeding $1,000,000 /or allowances not to exceed SSO a mont.i j
ft to dependents of National Guardsmen with no other income 1 >
than the guardsmen's pay. !
| Harrisburg. For an hour this afternoon in the count; •
jail, District Attorney M. E. Stroup and County EM
James T. Walters tried to wring a confession from Elwood | J
< Wilson and James White as to the shooting of Patrolman ij
! Lewis C. Hippie. J
i ' Columblis, N. M., June 23.—An unofficial report has >1
1 been received here that Mexicans crossed to the American
iside near Hachita, early to-day and ran off with a number of ' *
horses and mules. American troops, according to the
report, immediately crossed into Mexico after them. ' '
MARRIAGE LICENSES „ ►
Hoherl Wllwin nml Snrith Hum phi eya, ."trrllnn. ]
Mnxncll Vd«m* find M»r<r I'.mmn WhUromli, rltf.
I'rfntlce Harold HnrUell, Ptltaliurull, :<nd Alice P. « frtl. city. .
John I. Vrairmlonn.nnil ( karloltf A. Ganklll, city. ' i
CITY EDITION
GOVERNOR BIDS
LAST GOOD-BY
TO CITY TROOP
Literally "Breaks Bread" With
His Bodyguard on Flying
Visit to Armory
KINDLY WORD FOR EACH
Troopers Cheer Him; Clover
Leaf and Its Message For
Eighth's Officers
The Governor of Pennsylvania to
day hade simple but Impressive
igood-by to Harrisburg's Guardsmen
I who are ready and waiting to follov.'
'the flag to Mexico.
Governor Brumbaugh did more than
; say farewell to the Governor's Troop:
lie literally broke bread with his mili
itary bodyguard.
The informal visit of the Governor
to the Troop and the Eighth regiment,
armories was heralded by but a fe<'
minutes but the executive found aT
three commands in the tip-top for: i
land military trimness that won h t
j smiling commendation.
All three companies were paradt I
without arms to receive the Go verm •
and the commanding officers escort< I
him down the silent lines of men. an
1 the soldiers stood at "attention."
\ The Governor started at the rjgl
of each and quietly spoke a word < *
praise and best wishes to each sol
dier. That they appreciated the ri -
marks of the Governor was imliratfl
by the frequent smile and nod or tnui -
mured "thank you, sir," from tha
' ranks.
"Just I'nr <>nod Luck"
The Governor had a special worl,
however, for the Troop and it was
there that he warmed the hearts of
'veteran and recruit alike. Following
; the informal Inspection of the men
I"Continued 011 Page tt»]
