I ui
I Iron County Record. I
". WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER." I
ttr : i
VOLUME XXI11 U0 PER YEAR CEDAR CITY, UTAU, FRIDAY, JUNE 23, 1916. 5 CTS. PER COPY. NUMBER 28.' !H
PAXMAN A! SIM
. MEET CEDAR PEOPLE
t Go Over Colonization Project
With Them and Report
Outlook Favorable.
PROMINENT CITIZENS
PLEDGE CO-OPERATION.
t Promoters Require Not Less Than 15,-
000 Acres, and 20,000 Would
0 Dc Much Better.
$ W. C. Stark and J. W. Paxman, v.'lio
& , spent Saturday In Cedar City going
4 over the land nchemo in the inttirc.it
i . i of a California land company, left for
,' . home Sunday after what thoy termed
a very satisfactory visit.
A meeting of a number of large land
owners was held Saturday evening In
the office of J. II. Arthur where plans
for putting new lifo into the project
were devised. According to reports
received at the meeting the principal
cause of the delays so far have been
i ' on account of so many land owne'N
being out of the country. A number
of these are oxpected home soon and
when their lnnds are listed and added
- . to the total already secured the com
mittee hopes to bo able to report in
the neighborhood of 20,000 acres.
w, When this amount is secured officers
i rS. of a large California development
, " company have promised to come to
w ' - Cedar Valley and secure information
v that will enable them to form a large.
, , colonization -plan for the settlement
, v and development of unused lands in
f this region.
( i, ' President U. T. Jones addressed the
' meeting Saturday night and voiced his
"it hearty approval of the plan. Ho haF
listed a large acreage with the com-
$&'' t mittee and will devote some time to
., rft' "" "iYjnR'others list-theirs, John P.arry
r) ' 'has also 'listed a large acreage an
- .' will be an active member of the com
& J mittee. J. H. Arthur and his associa-
i ' ' tes listed about 4000 acres with tho
t committee.
u Considerable time was given to
4 &.. the discussion of the two year term
i T , asked for in the options, it having
f ,v developed that there is considerable
'i opposition to such a long time.
v ' Mr. Stark and Mr. Paxman pointed
, out to those present that while the
time might be reduced somewhat it
would be unfair to ask a large com
pany to come into tho valley and ex-
, pend the money necessary to make
a scheme of this size a success if they
,wero not given at least three month?
for preparation work after all the lane'
wanted had been listed and then one
fall and one spring in which to do tip
selling.
' After all present had expressed
' their views a compromise was effect"
" , ed whereby the committtee may accopr
" options of one year from those wlu do
," not wish to Bign for two, with the un-
j derstanding that the one year options
f '. will not be dated until all the land
I wanted has been listed. This means
- , that the new options will run one
year from about September 1, 1910
, The committee expressed the opinion
' that with thja new plan at least 17,-
500 acres would be signed up within
another week.
Members of the committee and the
visitors made a trip over the vallev
Saturday afternoon. Mr. Stark made
tho statement that aside from the
j distance from a railroad it was almost
an ideal selling proposition. "You
have the soil and the climate and most
important of all you have lota of
good water easily accessible," suid
Mr. Stork. "It is true that the lai.d
)b further from the railroad than the
new settler likes to come, but there is
none loft for him any closer and then
he has tho consoling thought and so
f have the people of Cedar City tha. if
If enough settlers come you will havs a
I railroad right through the land."
t Senator Henry W. Lunt was named
S chairman of tho local committee to
" secure options on lands wanted. 7 ho
Senator is quietly onthuslastlc aver
y ,the plan. He assured the visitors tht;
4 ""-& lack of options was due to the ab
sence of land owners from the coun
try and not to loss of intorest In the
plan. Both he and President .Tomss
wljl devote much of their time to mak
ing the plan a success. J. II. Arthur
will handle local details for the com.
a mlttcc.
I Send The Record to your absent
t frfted. Thy 'will a?petaU lb.
1 ' '
If
DIAMOND FROM THE SKIES
TO BE RESUMED NEXT WEEK
Patrons of tho Thorley Electric
Theatre who had become interested in
tho sorlal, "A Diamond Prom the
Skies," while it was being Bhown here
a few months back, will be pleased to
learn that tho piece is o bo resumed
next week, whore it was loft oft", the
next to bo the twentieth episode. Last
week while in Salt Lake City Mr.
Thorley tbok the matter up with the
film house and succeeded In clearlncr
up n misunderstanding that arose at
the time tho piece was being shown
hero before, and the agency was glad
to book them for tho completion of
tho scries of episodes, of which there
still remains eleven to bo shown.
MAD COYOTES ATTACK
FREIGHTERS ON ROAD
Wildly Exciting Experience Reported
by Traveler Between Wcndover
and Ibpah, Tooele Co.
(From tho Tooele Times.)
Frank Lee, who was freighting be
tween Ibpah and Wendover, tells an
exciting story of how ho was attacked
by a mad coyote at night while he was
in bed.
Lee says ho felt the pillow suddenly
nulled from under his head, and or
sitting bolt upright in bed he behel''
a large coyote, whoso glaring eye
seemed to be as large as a man's fists
flaring at him in the semi-darkness
The animal evidently had been rolling
In the camp fire, for thore were live
coals sticking in the animal's fur
While tho apparition moved about the
glaring eyes, gleaming white lyith and
blowing coals made a sight never to
bo forgotten.
When Mr. Lee raised his head, the
animal made a rush for him, and only
by suddenly covering himself with the
bed clothes did ho cscapo injury, for
the animal seized him by the arm, but
tho intervening blankets prevented
the animal's teeth from penetrating to
the flesh.
After several fruitless attempts to
blto Mr. Lee the coyoto made for the
wagons, snapping one of the horses.
Mr. Lee watched his chance and at an
opportune moment made his way from
the bed to the top of the lead wagon,
which ho gained only in time to es
cape attack from tho coyote. He spent
the remainder of tho night on top of
the wagon, for ho relished not a sec
ond attack. In the wee small hours of
the morning ho ventured from his
perch and secured his bedding, which
ho wrapped about him and resumed
his position on the wagon top, sitting
disconsolately there until daylight.
Tooelo Times.
Parry Not a Benedict.
The report that our heart-smashing
townsman, Mr. Gronway Parry, was
married in the northern part of the
state last week, is stoutly denied by
that gentleman, who, however, does
not deny that he has intentions alonr
that line that may be carried into
effect in the not far distant future
Tho report was very persistent for
several days that he was hitched up
for life with a certain very attractive
little girl whose home is in CIrcleville.
Piute county, and where Mr. Parry
has loitered a number of days time
this spring in his goings and comings
between here and Salt Lake by automobile.
King Sugar and His Allies.
(From Kane County News.)
The Iron County Record Is after the
people for tho high price of sugar with
a strong editorial that every man
should read. The matter is a vital
one, and the Record is to bo commen
ded for its courage in handling It here
In Utah, the homo of so many of the
royal family of Sugar. Sugar is at
present one of the most active pickers
of our pockets: but it is by no means
alone in its unrighteous occupation.
There is a strong group of them, nil
working together to control legisla
tion and smother the voice of the peo
ple. They will be especially busy from
now to election day In fact, they are
already yelling, "Prohibition" so loud
ly that wo can hardly hoar ourselves
think, much less keep track of their
underhanded activities. Poor old
Liquor Interest Is the Jonah they havo
decided to throw overboard this year
to appease tho righteous wrath 6f the
political elements.
Mrs. W. A. Stephenson, formerly
Miss Elizabeth Uric, is in Cedar and
Hamilton's Fort viBltlng relatives and
friends. Mr. nnd Mrs, Stephenson
I have been residing at Ft. Collins,
Colo., but are now moving to Delta,
(Utah.
GRIM HER IS
BUST MMHMNI
Three Adults Called to Their
Last Resting Place During
The Past Week.
DECEASED WERE WELL
KNOWN IN PAROWAN.
Joseph Dalton, (Barber), Stephen G.
Thornton, Mrs. Sarah A. Carter
Haddon Get Summons.
Parowan, Utah, June 22, 1910.
Tho grim reaper has been busy in
Parowan tho past week nnd has robbed
us of three of our prominent and re
spected citizens, all of adult age. It
is not often that tho death toll has
been so heavy here during a like per
iod. Mrs. Sarah A. Carter Haddon.
Funeral services were held in the
tabernacle last Thursday afternoon
for Mrs. Sarah A. Carter Haddon, who
died at tho home of her daughter,
Mrs. Louisa Mortensen, with whom
she has made her home for the past
year. The speakers were Morgan
Richards, John Stevens nnd Bishop
Adams. Miss Ada McGregor sang a
solo. Mrs. Haddon leaves eight child
ren, G4 grandchildren and 114 great
grandchildren, and 12 groat-great-grandchlldrcn
to mourn her loss.
Joseph P. Dalton In Called.
Joseph P. Dalton died last Sunday
morning as a result of poisoning from
wator hemlock and poison vy.
Dr. Green had the caso in charge,
and nil that medical skill and knowl
edge could do was done for him, but
to no avail.
Joo was a popular man in the com
munity, having conducted a barber
shop hero for many years. He leaves
a wife, one little son, several sisters
and brothers to mourn his loss.
Funeral services were held Tuesday
at 2 p. m. Charles Adams, Morgan
Richards and David Matheson wore
the speakers.
Deceased was also a prominent
member of and worker In the local
volunteer fire department, which did
such efficient work last summer.
Stephen G. Thornton, Also Departs.
Stephen G. Thornton passed to the
great beyond Friday morning, after a
short illness of but threo days. Mr.
Thornton died of uronlc poisoning.
Funeral services were held in the
tabernacle Sunday afternoon. James
Ollorton, David Matheson, Thomas
Durham, Morgan Richards and Bishop
Adams were the speakers.
L. L. Eckles, assisted by Mrs. Swea
vengen nt tho piano, i-endered a sa
cred violin solo.
Mr. Thornton leaves a wife, three
grown children and threo grandchild
ren to mourn his untimely death.
PAROWAN NOTES.
Fourth of July Committees.
The City Council appointed a gen
eral committee at their last regular
meeting to arrange for a Fourth of
July celebration, consisting of Hans
J. Mortensen, Leon L. Eckles and
Thomn3 Bennett. Mr. Eckles has
charge of tho program and will ap
point his own associates. The follow
ing sub-committees were appointed by
the general committee:
On Sports Thomas Bennett, John
Brown, Clarence and Eva Richards,
Barbara Adams.
On Finance H. J. Mortensen, E. A.
Burton, William Pritchard, J. Clayton
Mitchell, Wm, Green.
On Decoration T, G. Eckles, Laban
Burt, Virgil Decker, Winston Orion,
Lawrence Miller, Bell Mitchell, Ora
Orton, Pearl Rose, and Georgia E.
Mitchell.
On Parade J. L. Lowder, D. P.
Barton, J. Alma Benson, Myrtle
Brown, Jos. R. Bentley, Cornelia Bar
ton. Tho several committcos are com
posed of good llvo members, and a
rousing tlrao is anticipated.
Dr. Burton returned from Salt Lake
City a few days since, whoro ho at
tended the convention of health of
ficers Bert Macfarlane of St. George is
visiting in Parowan for a few days,
As a consequence one of our young
lftdlw is c&rpyiitr hw happlwt smile.
QUARTERLY CONFERENCE
OF THE PAROWAN STAKE
Quarterly conference of tho Paro
wan Stnko of, Zion will bo held in Ce
dar City tomorrow and Sunday, open
ing Saturday morning nt 10:30. Tho
stnko Priesthood meeting will bo hold
Snturdny evening at 8 p. m.
Presidents F. M. Lymnn of the
Twelve Apostles, nnd Jos. W. McMur
rin of tho Seventies Quorums, will bo
in attendance, and it is desired that
there bo n good representation of the
stake officers and Bnints present.
L. N. MARSDEN,
WM. II. LYMAN,
HENRY L. JONES,
- Stako Presidency.
PAROWAN EXTENDS INVI-
TATION TO CELEBRATE.
Tho Record is thto reciplont of a
request from the General Fourth of
July Committee nt Pnrowair, to extend
an invitation through tho columns of
this paper to tho people of Cedar City
to como to Parowan nnd join them in
their Fourth of July celebration. We
are advised that free entertainment
will bo provided by the good people of
Parowan for all who deslro to accept
tho Invitation, and that the committee
will do Us utmost to make the cclebra
tlon worth while. The Cedar base ball
team has agreed to go there for o
came on the Fourth, nnd at tho pres
ent timo it looks as if tho stimulation
would be strongest in the direction of
Parowan on tho Fourth. m
We suggest that wo show ourselves
to bo friendly and neighborly by all,
or as many of uo as possible, going
to Parowan for Independence Day
Then on the 24th, Pioneer Day, we
might reciprocate the courtesy.
Little Boys Havo Close Call.
Yesterday two little boyB of Mr. and
Mrs. Rass Dallcy, Alma, aged nine
years and Austin aged seven, had a
narrow escape from death, and as it
was, tho older boy did not como out
of It without qulto serious injuries
A giant cap was the agency that did
the damage. It seems that some per
son who had occupied tho Main street
premises that the Dallcys arc tem
porarily renting, left, a package con
taining four giant caps near the coal
bin, where it was found by the child
ren. Thoy thought that they were
small rlflo shells, nnd tho larger boy,
after a futile attempt to light one
with a match, cut it in two with the
ax, and then mado a second attempt
with a match. Tho boys woro sitting
on the ground nnd had the cap on an
ax between them. This tlmo it went,
as an evidence of which Alma has in
tho neighborhood of 150 wounds on
his faco nnd body, ranging in size
from little more than a pin prick to
some pretty deep and ugly lasccraions.
which bled profusely, and frighencd
his parens nearly o death. The younger
boy escaped with only a few small
contusions on his face.
Dr. Leonard dressed the wounds of
the older boy and he is getting along
as well as could be expected, under the
circumstance.
When taken into the house Alma
still had the remaining three giant
caps in his hand.
Mr. Dalley states that Austin, who
has a strong proclivity for anything
on the military order, is a little jeal
ous of his brother, as he appears to
bo the hero of the encounter.
Fourth of July General Committee.
At the regular meeting of tho City
Council held on the first Thursday of
this month, tho following persons were
appointed as a general committee to
prepare a celebration for tho Fourth
of July in Cedar City: David Sharp,
Treharno Jones and Vera. Pace, We
understand that they havo been seen
In company about town, from which it
is presumed that they are working on
the matter, but we ravo not received
and report as to their plans for the
celebration.
Mr. Willard Simkins of CIrcleville
qame in from his Nevada ranch last
Sunday, bringing his 11 year old son.
who had been suffering intensely for
10 days with a caso of appendicitis.
The pationt was taken to tho Southern
Utah hospital, whoro it was ascer
tained that the appendix had ruptured
and tho peritoneum cavity had filled
up with a big accumulation of pus.
An operation being the only possible
chance of saving his life, It wbb un
dertaken, notwithstanding oven this
afforded only a mcagro chance for the
little sufferer. Ho lived about 24 hours
and then passed away. The father
did not suspect that the boy's trouble
was appendicitis until the disease had
ytimd lxyod eetttnri.
IDE REPH1T
BUTIE RESERVOIR
Five Million Dollars Loaned by
United States in a Most
Excellent Cause.
GREATEST STORAGE RES
ERVOIR IN THE WORLD.
Some Comparisons of Cost nnd Im
portance of This Project With
Wastes of "Preparedness."
The big newspapers of the country
have gone bo crady over "prepared
ness" -so called -that they cannot
bear to bco Congress spend any money
on anything that is of any earthly use
to nny human being.
All appropriations for peaceful pur
suits are now described in tho Wash
ington dispatches as "pork!" Tho as.
sumption is that there is something
grensy and detestible about them.
This is the reason why tho comple
tion of tho Elephant Butto Dam on
May 13 by the Reclamation service of
the United States government has
been so systematically ignored by the
groat dally papers. Apparently thoy
do not want to remind the people of
tho United States that Uncle Sam has
just completed for $5,000,000 a dam
which creates, in the languago of pres
Idcnt Wilson, "tho greatest storage
reservoir, in tho world," capable of re
claiming onough desert to Bupport
millions of people.
The Elophant Butte dam, Elephant
Butte, New Mexico, on the Rio Grande
is 318 feet high, 1074 feet long on tor
and weighs a million tons. It Btorc
866,000,000,000 gallons of water In p
lake 45 miles long with an avcragp
depth of sixty-fivo feet. When full i
will contain enough wator to cover
Delaw"arrfwoect"deep. '""'
The American Union Against Mill
tarism which, from headquarters in
Munsey building, Washington, D. C.
is fighting tho huge diversions of pub
He funds to army, navy and mutton
uses, has issued a public statement
reminding the public that tho Elephant
uutto dam "cost only one-third np
much as a dreadnnught and should
last for a century, whereas tho drend
naught it out of date in five years
out of commission In ton and out of
existence in fifteen.
"There nro twenty-six reclamation
projects now under way," continues
tho Union in its statement, "and some
of them are almost as significant np
the great project just completed. But
all of them are jcapordlzed by tho ap
palling raid on the United State?
treasury which tho newspapers and
business Interests, backed by the ad
ministration itself, arc making in the
name of 'preparedness.'
"Although tho trensury reports n
deficit of many millions, tho adminis
tration has so far yielded to tho clam
or that it purposes to increase the
army and navy budgets by ?114,000,
000,000 over what it was last year
Tho settlers of tho West, pay for the
reclamation projects6out of their own
pockets, but the United States could
afford to make them a gift of them
all out of tho mere increase in our war
budget thiB year."
Tho executlvo commlttoo of tho A
mcrican Union Against Militarism,
which was formerly known as the
Antl Preparednc88 Committee, is made
up of Lillian D. Wald, Rabbi Stephen
S.WiBo, John Haynes Holmes, Amos
Finshot, and others of Now York City;
William F. Cochran of Baltimore;
Rudolph Speckles of San Francisco;
John A. McSparran, legislative chair
man of the National Grange; Presi
dent James II. Maurer of the Pcnsyl
vanla State Federation of Labor; Miss
Jano Adams, Sophonisha P. Brecken
ridge and Charles T, Halllnan of Chi
cago; and others.
Dr. A. N. Leonard, who was in at
tendance nt tho convention of ltcalth
officers at Salt Lake City the first of
this week, reports that Iron county
was tho best represented in tho con
vention, having four officers present.
He stated further that Cedar City was
given quito an ovation when it was
learned of the clean town campaign
already in progress here and the good
work thUB far accomplished. Tho doc
tor was requested to give a full de
scription of the local campaign for
the benefit of tho other health officers
prwmit fn th e4rft4cm.
THE WEEK'S OFFERINGS H
AT THORLEY THEATRE H
Following is the program of moving M
p cturo plays to bo shown at the
Thorley Electric Theatro during tho 11
week beginning Monday, Juno 20: M
Monday nlght"The Ransom," five M
reel special production by the World H
company. H
Tuesday "Man of Shame," five reel L
fenture production, by tho Mutual Co. M
Wednesday. Weitern program, five M
reels by the Mutual. M
Thursday Twentieth cplsodo in the M
"Diamond from the Skies." M
Friday "The Family Cupboard," a M
five reel production by the World Co. H
Saturday 0 reel western program H
by the General Film company. H
LOCAL HAPPENINGS. .
fH
Do not fall to read the Classified
columns of Tho Record. There may H
be a number of items there that will
Interest you and may save you money.
G. C. Goddard and Bon Frank were H
In from tho woods near tho Woolsoy H
ranch tho first of tho week and re- H
ported everything i'smooth as silk." H
Mrs. Laurel Webb "Bemont present-,
cd her husband with n son and heir H
Inst Wednesday, this boing their first- H
born. Dr. Macfarlano in attendance, H
nnd everything lovely. tH
A little son of Mr. and Mrs. George H
Prince was operated on a the South-' , H
crn Utah hospital yesterday for ap- H
pendlcitls, tho operation being appar- H
cntly entirely successful. H
Mrs. Konneth Urio underwent an :H
operation yesterday at tho Southurn ''H
Utah Hospital for appendicitis and the 'H
correction of other minor troubles. H
At thiB writing aha Is getting along H
the finest kind. H
Conjoint Meeting Sunday Night. 1
Sunday evening in tho tabernitcle,
tho Mutual Improvement Associations H
of tho Cedar wards will give an in- H
ferestlng musical program, supple- H
mented by a short talk by Dr. Mac- 411
farlane. The public are invited. iH
Wo havo experienced some veryin- -M
usual weather again this week. Last iH
Wednesday night and Thursday morn- H
ing it was cold enough for October. j: H
Everybody cither had to hunt more H
bed covers or suffer with the cold, H
nnd It la said that there was enough M
frost to damage tender garden plants. '
And still the automobiles nro com- M
Ing to town. Within the past week H
it is reported that there has been two H
car loads of Fords, one of Maxwells H
nnd ono of Bulcks unloaded at Lund. -H
Tho respective agonts are now at tho tH
station unloading and getting tho cars
set up ready for bringing in. ' H
Today the arbitration caso is on in H
this city involving the title to certain IH
high wator rights on the meadow. lH
Attorney W. B. Higgins of Fillmore H
is hero representing the interests of fl
Tohn Parry in tho case, und Attorney 'IH
Ryan of this placo is looking after' H
the interests of some of the other
claimants. Tho proceedings are being j M
conducted in tho basement of the 11- r
brary building. fl
A feeble attempt was mado to il
hold another road day last Wcdnes- fl
day, but it appears that the matter 'H
was not very well advertised and the fl
members of the committee who were 1
expected to take an active part in get- , M
ing people out wero away from town 1
unll lac Tuesday evening and knew
nothing about tho program. The mat- jH
ter was therefore deferred until soma M
future time. In the mean while, rep- jH
resentatives from the State Engincr's - M
offije and from tho Forest Scrvire will H9
go carefully over the matter and as- Mp9l
certain whether or not the route being- $&
worked on is the best available for '$$m
getting up our canyon and making rw
the connection with Garfield and Kane (5I
counties. Jwftfi
During the hours of darkness last J:
night Ray Davenport, the little son of MrM
Mr. and Mrs James B. Davenport of lv
Paragonah, was brought to the South- jfm
ern Utah Hospital, on the advise of ulM
Dr. Macfarlane, who was called to see iS
tho patient while in Paragonah yes- ii
terday on another case, and during WlMii
the night the little fellow was operated Wwk
on by Drs. Leonard and Macfarlane. tlsfi
It proved to be another pus case fol- ji
lowing tho rupture of the appendix jafl
from appendicitis, and while all tliesa iH
cases are serious nnd attended with H
qulto a heavy mortality, the fact that H
tho case was of only about three days ' 9H
standing is in favor of the patient and H
the doctors entertain hope for his re- Hfl
H
