ILexiitgton
1 tttC
er
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JUNE 23, 1916.
NUMBER 23.
ATHLETICS CLEANED
HOUSE SUNDAY
In
a Game of Many Thrills-
Howe Won Game With
Timely Blow.
With the count knotted, the
Athletics last bat and with two
men on the bags, two men out
and two strikes on 'em, with the
crowd holding their breath, the
Athletics graceful first sacker
proved himself equal to the oc
casion and sent the ball soaring
to the left field fence, sending
Lineback home with the winning
run.
The above was merely ' the
finish of Sunday's brilliant
baseball battle at Athletic park,
in which the local team beat the
Kansas City Fords, one of the
strongest aggregations around
the City. The combat was the
best seen here this season, and
one of the best in several years.
It was one of those thrilling
home with the deciding run. I David W. Stark.
Carmichael heaved the pill for David W. Stark, West Line,
the Athletics, and proved to some Cass County, Missouri, an-
of Lexington's fickle fans that ,nounces in this issue of the In
he has got something on the telligencer his candidacy for the
ball, because the Kansas City ' Democratic nomination for
Fords haven't any High School! State Senator from the Seven
boys on the team. He was in- eenth Senatorial District. Mr.
vincible in the pinches and al-' Stark makes the following
though several home runs have statement
been gotten off Carmichael this
"I am a farmer, born and rear-
season, they always come when ed in Cass County, Missouri. I
two are out and the bases empty. . have served two terms in the
He allowed 7 hits and struck out ' State Legislature as representa
ten men. House, a former tive, and have a record there in
Detroit pitcher, who has quite a j "black and white," of which I
"rep" in the city was touched : am proud,
for eight safeties and he also "I believe an agricultural dis
whiffed ten. The hits off the op- trict should be represented by
posing hurlers were about even, one actually engaged in that pro
but Carmichael's was scattered fession, and not by a lawyer,
and the Athletic's bunched their manufacturer or miner,
blows off House. "I stand for better schools and
Drummond Brown, a former better roads.
Snyder-Wilson.
Dr. Joseph C. Snyder and
Miss Agnes McDonald Wilson,
both of this city, were married
Wednesday afternoon at four
Green for Attorney-General.
To the Democracy of Lafayette
County:
I hartily endorse the candi
dacy of Ernest A. Green, of St.
ROUSING ORGANIZA
TION MEETING
o'clock at the home of the ! Louis, for nomination by the
brides' mother, Mrs. William B. Democratic party at the August
Wilson, 1422 Franklin street. 'primary to the office of Attorney-
The bride was attended by her, General,
Kansas City Federal League
catcher, did the receiving for
Lexington. Howard Shinn, the
"I am for the only kind of bet
ter roads that the people desire.
The assurance oi the qualifica
tions and fitness of Mr. Green
sister, Miss Mary Wilson, and
the groom by his partner, Dr.
Charles B. Kingery. itev. S. 0.
Hall preformed the ceremony.
The groom is a recent gradu- cessfully, as Assistant Attorney
ate from the Kirksville School General, discharged the duties of
of Osteopathy, and formerly was the office under two administra
an instructor in the Wentworth tions and in every instance has
Military Academy. Dr. Snyder 'faithfully served the people and
made many friends here while j has proved his qualifications to
connected with Wentworth, who 'perform the duties devolving up-
with the Intelligencer extend on the Attorney-General
The Christian Church Filled
With People That Want a
Dry Lexington.
As announced, the people of
Lexington gathered a: the Chris
tian church Monday night. The
pews were well filled and the
pastors were on the platform
congratulation in winning so es
timable a bride.
The bride was born, raised and
educated in Lexington, and en
joys the esteem of a wide circle
for this office is that he has with the temporary chairman, C.
proved his fitness by having sue- A. Keith.
The meeting was opened with
singing led by Rev. R. N. Allen,
and prayer by Rev. Hall. The
"hairman stated some facts and
introduced E. F. Jones, legisla
tive superintendent of the Mis
souri Anti-Saloon League, who
presented the plans of a cam
paign that has been a success in
There is, therefore, no guess
work as to his ability and devo-i90 per cent of the elections held
"I think the time of our assess- of friends and acquaintances.
Iment for taxes should be chang- The happy couple left on the
train for St,
tion to the public interests.
He is an eminent lawyer and
his fidelity to the people has been
demonstrated time and again as
i i
i i . j - ip l . wh.h mi iih s 'K n mi ifir ixhs xrti ii mm i'tm hit. i it ihimv (lin t-' ih i. tin r nuni u v ilia n uv.LC-n.L ui ui LrCL u-
games mat Kept me cruwu . T . nT ...-.., t r ---- -
their toes every minute of the inis was crown s nrst game tnis ea irom June l to Marcn l, ana evening train ior st. l,ouis, uon in uie supreme uurt oi
nine innings the score being tied 'season, and he was not in the j the taxes paid the same year ; it where they will spend several jtrust combinations and procur
Ini 'the tpam in the!oest f shape, but caught an would be a great saving to our days and then return to Lexing-;ing judgments of ouster and
i.j ; nt ! excellent game and made the 'state. ,ton. I large penalties paid into the
than one run. Athletic s first tally I "I believe a few good laws,
Kansas Citv was the first to' Batteries: Kansas City, House 'written in good, common, "horse
Tn thp spcond frame ollu u'Jvviiuui , e.ingujii, vai-'sense, auu wen eiuuiceu, iui
Speaking
score.
Lorfing, the Ford's third sacker,
got a homer over the left field
fence. The locals tied the score
in their half on a couple of hits
and an error.
michael and Brown.
, State Treasury
School He is clean, able and does not
adopt the arts of the politician.
in Missouri in the last six years.
The name, Lexington Taxpay
ers Dry League, was selected for
the organization and the follow
ing officers selected by unani
mous vote:
President, C. A. Keith; Vice-
President, Mrs. Felix Young,
Secretary, Charles Gaither;
Treasurer, Oscar H. Westerman.
The meeting adjourned with
prayer by Rev. F. M. Burton,
E.
Irving Withers.
The anouncement of
They took the!tners as a candidate for the
lead in the third when Carmich
ael singled and scored on Line
back's hit. In the fifth chapter,
after Miller doubled, Bertie lift
ed another over the left field
Democratic nomination for
at Slusher
House.
hettpr fnr ns th.nn Rn mnnv. that' J. KpIIv Wrio-ht of the TJniver- PpsiVIpo Vip ia an ttV.lp Mmnaiim. presiding elder 01 the JU
'even our lawyers and judges do sity of Missouri will address thejer and will add much strength .Church, South,
'not understand, and are not en-'Farmer's Club at the Slusher to the democratic ticket. In accepting the position of
Irving ! forced. (School House, Wednesday, June j have the neatest confidence lPresident Mr- Keith made a stir"
in his character and cheerfuny ring speech setting rorth the ad-
sheriff of Lafayette County, will better place in which to live
be found in another column of i "I am in favor of rural credits,
The Intelligencer. jwith a. reasonable rate of inter-
Mr. Withers was a candidate est on real estate.
"If I am elected, I will do my 28, commencing at 8 o'clock
very best to make old Missouri a 'Subject: "Livestock Farming." 'commend him to the DeoDle and vantage that would accrue to
...... i ... . i, ., i i r T ! l -C
The public is cordially invited.
Circuit Court.
The trial of the case of A.
barrier and put the "tin lizzies" jour vears a but was defeat- j "I am opposed to the present Huntley vs. Sallie Osborne,
in the lead. But the old lucky
ea at tne primary, lie came I ish and Game laws of Missouri, damages, brought here on a
seventh the locals again "forged ;ou triat campaign without a; "Look up my past record in change of venue from Ray
ahead 'by putting two over. , sore spot and put frtn his best the House of " Representatives; 'County, was concluded Wednes-
These were manufactured with , Ioris Ior xne success or the and int meets with your approv-,day in tne circuit court, ine jury
ask them to vote for him for
this office, which should be filled
by a man of first class legal abil
ity and of proved fidelity in office,
j Yours truly,
I Alexander Graves.
Mr. Oliver James Hosier Weds.
j,.M(1 hv trainer cintrle ticket at the general election, al, I will greatly apreciate your returned a verdict in favor of' l he announcement ot the mar
double by Hauling, a Single. . ' . ;J. " ,....;,.,. nA ria of Mr. Olivpr .Tamp TTo---
men inp n r n iihs m .-hmi.wu. "
Lexington from getting rid of
the saloons.
Mr. Keith with his splendid
courage is certainly the man to
head this movement and the an
nouncement of his intention to
stay with this fight to the end
was met with the heartiest re
sponse by the large audience
present.
hv PnrmirhflPl and another sin- ,"e iS Bsain asKin Ior ine nom" support, n it cioes not,
gle by Lineback. jination, with a willingness to vote for some other who will try
, ' ' abide by the verdict of the voters to make Missouri a better state.
Then came the ninth W'at the primary A t h Mr show hand and ve wiU be
the one m which each team pu , js
one over. The visitors first ,. , m . J . J j
..or- , , r.
ciean nver, a simon pure uemo
. crat, and if nominated and elect
ed, he will be found doing his
i duty without fear or favor.
ier to Miss Mamie Elizabeth
David VV. Stark, West Line,
man up flied to Lineback
fing walked and was thrown out
when Miller hit to Amos. Bow
man then doubled, scoring Mil
ler, again sewing up the game.
The heavy hitters were up for
the domestics. Lineback singled,
Con Roach a Visitor. ,June j4' the Presbyterian
Cornelius Roach, secretary of chuh. The object of the
state of Misouri, and candidate meeting 13 to effect an rSaniza
for the Democratic nomination ,t10n
for governor, spent Tuesday
Call Meeting. Barkle, at St. Joseph, Michigan, CaS3 County candidate for the
All women interested in a Saturday, June 17, has been re- Democratic nomination for state
dry Lexington are urged to be ceived by Mr. Hosier's friends in 'senator for this, the Seventeenth
present on Saturday afternoon, this citv- -Mr- H'ier was for- Senatorial District, was in Lex-
meriy employed uy tne .Missouri
Gas & Electric Service Co.
ington Wednesday in the interest
of his candidacy.
Lawn Social.
The ladies of the Edenview
Fuend-Blewitt
E. F. Fuend of Hooper. Illinois ni8ht here- Mr- Roach's record
i . i -x. . il. : ,J t:, -r ni :n j ii n sprrpffirv of stntp Vinn with.
his lortn nil 01 tne game, k-iiu iui imuy liiewui, uaugnt- '? ' ' 'rhnrrh will civp a Hwn social at
5, fiwi ,,-itv, a cincrip RpnH. 1 pr nf Mr nnrl ATr Ti v P.i-itt out exception, been one of the .cnurcn m gne a iavn soc laiat
c " "7,, : r: wt ? ih h,tnrV f h George K. Young's Wednesday
ing LaneoacK to seconu, oieveus;Ji iiigguiaYiue, wtie married - '
Mrs. George
daughter, Miss
Wednesday for
ver, Colo.
Burniston
Barbara,
a visit in
and
left
Den-
Mr. and Mrs. B. F. Saunders
and two children went to Kan
sas City Friday for a few
days' visit.
then sacrificed, the runners ad
vancing, Howe then got his
timely blow, Lineback racing
were
Friday afternoon at 5 o'clock,
at the Methodist parsonage by
Rev. R. N. Allen. !
If he is nominated and elected Wht.July 13, to which the pub
governor, the people of Missouri
may expect the same efficient
service he has given in his pres
ent capacity.
: Ralph Campbell Sells Creamery.
J The Lexington Dairy Company
has bought the Lexington
Creamery Company located on
Ninth street. Possession was
given Wednesday. The Lexington
Dairy Company will retain
the location on Ninth street as a
retail depot, and will be in
charge of Ed Barron.
lie is cordially invited.
Henry V. McNeel of Odessa,
former Recorder of Deeds, and
now the Democratic candidate
for representative in the Gener
al Assembly, spent the day in
Lexington.
IT WILL BE TO YOUR INTEREST
We will Rladly make you an estimate on any bill of Lumber
you contemrlate buying. Of course, we will try our best to Ug-
ure low enough to get it but if we lose it well, we'll smil
and try again when you want another bill.
We don't expect to sell all the Lumber in this territory
but somehow we do get the most particular bills. And there's
a reason.
It is as much to your interest as to ours to buy your Lumber
here.
Abel Rosewall, formerly of this
city and a son of Mr. and Mrs.
William Rosewall, now with
Dubinsky Stock Co., was mar
ried yesterday in Independence,
Kansas, to Miss Leona Biehl.
Marriage Licenses.
Dr. Joseph A. Snyder.Xexington
Agnes M. Wilson Lexington
J. A. Brittell Albion, Nebr.
Augusta M. Puett Cassville, Mo.
Summer Specials
A Lot of Broken Sizes in Ladies
Pumps, Strap Oxfords, Button
and Lace Oxfords.
WORTH $2.30 and
At
$3.00
$1.98
Box Supper.
The Rebekah Lodge will give
a box supper at the I. O. 0. F.
Hall Saturday night, June 24.
"The Yard that Saves and Satisfies."
LAMBERT LUMBER COMPANY
JOHN J. mil-, Manager.
0. J. Goehner left yesterday
for his home in Los Angeles,
California. Mr. Goehner was a
former resident of this city and
was the son of the late John
Goehner, who formerly was pro
prietor of the Lexington marble
yard, now owned by Mrs. A. Y.
Sandring. With his parents he
left Lexington twenty years ago
for California where he has since
resided, and is now proprietor oi'
the Southern California Music
Co.
Sisters, Eulalia, Claver, Ger
trude and Everista, who have
been teaching at the Catholic
School went to Kansas C'ty Sat
urday where they will spend
the summer.
Mrs. Chris Schawe and daught
er, Hulda Schawe, left Saturday
morning for a visit with relatives
in Endora, Kans. George
Schawe accompanied them as
ar as Kansas City.
Lieut. William Hoge, United
States Army, who recently grad
uated from West Point, arrived
Sunday morning to spend his
furlough with his parents, Col.
and Mrs. W. M. Hoge.
Our Customers are always surprised,
when thev see the Values we show in
"Welworth" and "Wirthmor" Waists,
at
$2.00 and $1.00
There MAY BE others
"JUST AS GOOD"
Eut we have never seen them and our
entire shipment is
SOLD EACH MONTH
SO THERE MUST BE A REASON
COME IN AND SEE THEM.
THERE IS NOTHING BETTER LOOKING AND MORE COM
FORTABLE THESE HOT SUMMER DAYS, THAN "WOOL
TEX" PRE-SIIRUNK WASH SKIRTS.
THEY FIT GOOD THEY LOOK GOOD AND THEY WEAR
&
