.m GUARANTEES
ipAND BINDING !
H' ..smr fr m a visiting card to a
l -"Thick nd a quality of work at
W'0 that aro satisfactory. I.ltho
sBM stock certificates anil en
HrlS i wfdd"1 Koods nml tho like.
)f!JrfiUmp. heep tag and every
rin metal Roods at right prices
1t Hints l,,or ,rln,lnff ,a dono Tno Sun
ill" gijt
wttle market
qIshowsjveakness
I M UAMiIvS WKIli: MILVIlY
Br) ni"" N n:vrs J.
- HyPrnund '"or Mockine nucl KcvcW
I m ffs tithe nnd Price Kor tho
(2 I fjowr Were Stronger I-nintu Arc
i Utile Ixiwer, W lillo hheep nnd
'lid, Imi Holding About hlcndy.
'ale I
ygun FpedAl Hcrvlcc
. ixgA8 CITY, Mo, June t Ar-
Ittbof cattle today were much tar
H IpdtinriiHCtid nnd the market hid
I, fcddtd) winker tendency except
tiiUklly tlr lot ulcer, nnd few In
Hit cUw Mere offered. The day
J iddrd nothing new In the gen
'kt M imdrnc) In the mnrket n the
Ufa morment Ik Increasing the
Meat la quotation b maintaining
Bti. rerord lewis for dry lot steers,
ilth hlf ' especially those cat-
a Out have made weight gains on
1CllrK.itr lotur The extremes In the
urkel tods) wire steady to fifteen
Ittutosrr mostly ten cents off. Tho
llonHg (Hr nrrp tmny came from n
'"'Writ ire. Texas sending In llbrral
, fls-flle front below the quarantine
Mat A train load of steers enmu fnim
" 'Hewn. Oklahoma, Colorado nnd
fcbruls wen falrl well represent
? .r H-ltid KtnMS had n good man) win
i " (rM "' 'leers ,lcro today The
ulwli prlcts wo 16.60 to 110 76
'"f(Hlrli:i lo $10.26 Tho lowest
.." wd itrcrs were on tlm qunriihtlnc
Bilr Cows nnd heifers were In llm-
b-lmppl) nnd mostly steady In price
(ml !W demand for stoiktr nnd feeders
- Hew idler nnd prices for stoikers
Heuitrongtr lletelpts tvtro limited
'Slut of the good Mockers were sold at
"T rU to M 00. nnd fee dcrs up to IS 0
' K price! were down rivo to ten
r -rttj ml aliotit lucnt cents undir
Utt a,iih Mlnt Inst week nl the optli-'V-
Uitr but at thn close of tho mar
,BK M prices ruled stend) nnd strong
"'' rtt scthu demand The top prlie
11 u TO nnd the hulk of hales
11 ' tiwd from 19 40 to 10.05.
Unit wire quoted ten to f If tun
sits tower nnd sheep wire stiail).
M of the of firings wtru spring
Eiitx that hrouRhl $10 00 to 110.76,
tt Ariiona lambs ftl 00 Hllpped
till therp brought (0.76 to 17 00
- ul breeding eives sold up In ( 00
V IIU(KMN UAH I.AMII
firr with six i.n.s
,UI J0DK.V Juno 17 A slx-wcuk.
JUmb, with siV legs. Is the unique
it W recrntl brought to this ilt by
p, mk8mth, mirotnr) or the Intir
uin ImiuX and I,hestock com
Hr from the companyM headqunr
In llux Klikr county. Although
wit Umlis aro not uncommon,
"pmn iiintiml that few of thrm
" or tlmn it few week. The
TOksnlmnl ownid b flnth Is wild
b-,s frisk) as nny normal liimb at
of six weeks and promises to
wjilop Into n healthy sheep.
,m utru pnlr of legs nro iittmhed
S Ui rll s just behind tho shoulder
"" The limbs nro norm what
"J"l tin tots pointing In n arl
vf dlrritlons, but tho extra ler do
"tlatcrfrre with normal use of the
r.lr fori limbs. Hmjtli allows his
Wtogrsi, on the lawn In front of
wnomi, where It has become the
wrm-to of nearly all the children In
' M'hborhofd.
Coiitimlou Call Iietucxl.
nk J Ungenbarth, pneldent of
r ftstlonnl Wooltcrowurs' assoclu
. hat r, thu call for ,he fft).
r"i nnual tonventlon, to bo held
.m .'J :o,h' " " Beptembtr 1st
SI i if H4lt Iake clt'' ," """i""0
ih ! ""' '""'oentlon the hmhkIii
l hnlil Its first rnm salu nnd
u?."k'ri ,,f t1" nssotlutlon nntUI.
Hitn "'"lance of fifteen hunilml
,,,'"" t "t tho (omuntlou Iist
k., "" i'1'ini.o was 1020. For
.t!i!m k,,im ,wo thousand dollnri In
'1 mj' w" ,"' "fftred. Of this
im! . Il'",l", lHnr lias been guar.
7ui ,,J ,l"' Halt lJke Commercial
I Eml "' r"" ,w" ,(,,,,n aUe', '"
I itui!'. W Ml-Clure, secretnr) of tho
jn! ,tV,u,1 ''blares thno thousand
,T. 7" lw entired In tho show. Al-
!'"e h reiehod entries from
' lCtBii ,an'1, 0reat 'rltnln, Canada,
iH Idih,;,?, Mlchlirun. Wjomlnif. t'tah,
M Washington nnd Oregon
' ll'sli Prior i:iKVtnl.
'I I'om )t Tnlor piomlnent tnttleman
this , ?ni1 Ju"ctlon. was In Vernal
j,,7i , inferring with the count)
uor. I"nr" wn regard to norno
m p.ma"''',. last Trlday-B Vtr-
tti. ''rt!? He l8 now running his
r i. . lho Wn"' 'ter range, To).
u r, '"fmerl) Inti rested In the cat-
U.t v n'ar Moob, but sold out
rouBMIlr. for ft I'f'CP reported to be
Uri, ,no hundred thousutid dol-
I u!n" Jo,""" I In Iener with a
I dir.n,.of M cattle Mlilch he load-
t r,.?lK 'nd 'hipped oer tho Mof-
Mi.p , Tho chances aro that he is
t thi ""I" n extra good market
mIcm ,lm ln Denver, as the rcceut
wr hiind" repor,ea ,,e nruun11 80
jlgiBSEjSjEjm TWELVE AND THIRTEEN HUNDRED CIRCULATION EACH AND EVERY WEEK OF THE YEAR J
V I III Ir-JTTSCiiEjiN PiB II II III Tho Su carries In stotk nil legnl ;' JH
XS -y ySi iMJJlSr?Pfii3'S2fSi9j II y I! ft II blanks eommonl) In use, deeds, mort- lH
' r 5'' itp' ' f " 'wC Jtf1y XiSs llx M j V&' gnges, locution notices, leases, con- iiH
" u t- " ' r N traits and the like The most com- f WM
Rnt . , POLITICALLY, R'EPUBLICAN. K 7,1? h Z iM
VOLUME 25 NUME,rr,M Ma,"r, '""" ""' " h "' '-.ah. Vnder ,h. Act of March , ,, hT fiiUffill nnTo. . fl
- EVERY FRIDAY " JUNE 2.1, 1910 Ing Is done The flun will do It B
I : WHEN HE CMES HOME TO TELL US MANY THINGS.
1 - i
CITY COUNCIL REJECTS 111 BIDS FOR
OPERATION OF ELECTRIG LIGHT PLANT
( lt i oiin met In rrgulur srsslon
Tuestla) night, t'oiintllmnu Inu.itt
bilng tin onl) nbsentci Tim sptilflc
piirHw of the meeting was the luti
slilrrntlon of bids for the im-mIIou
and mnlntiiiant-c of the ilinlrlr lihht
plant ii ml tit) uutir putii Out)
two bids Hen mudi Tln-y urt
J. II, Mnilxtil, 9N.t7.Atl nr llloiltli.
. . .'ipiio, hJ1 () x e iiioiiih.
I'tnh I'ciHtT iihil I.Ulit vomiMii)
prtsenled it proHnltlun Hi sell to tin
tit) ilettrli t urn lit ut nuuliimle The
loiinill uitiil to kO Into yxecutlit ses
sion to iiinslder the matter. Afti r due
di llln ration tho counrll voted uiianl
motisl) in r iitt nil bids, on the
grounds that the bids wtre loo high,
nnd commenting Jul) 1st the til) will
undtrtake to operate the plant. Thu
present operating iiintrnct will ox
pin on the Inst da) of this month
Tin elettrlf eommlttii was author
liul to pun has tw i niw sntokestatks
for tin power plant Keint)-flie ad
ditional meters went also ordered and
will be Installed nt once on their ar
rival, after whkh time no flat light or
power rates will be granted
Tho general tomnilttii for the
I'otirth of Jul) teleliriitlou was given
the cxi luslio right of all refreshment
cnmesslons for that du) Council al
so volunteirid to have the stnets dec
orated with fUgs and colored lights
The bridge ovur the iiinal bsidlng
to the high sthiMil grounds was re
ported to Im In poor condition and the
supervisor of streets was urdertd to
make all necissar) repairs nt nmo
Kd Hhe)ii, suctissor to u louil sa
loon buslnwui. was granted n lliense
dating from Jul) 1st
Council will met I again In spoilal
session on Tuesdu) night. June S7lh
The next regular meeting will be hi Id
Wednesda) night. Jul) Ith
itmisii comi'nv orn:iis
t l IIIIINT AT WIUH.UsM.i:
I'llICi:, I tali. June 0. ll To
the llonorMtile Maor and Munbers
of the fit) Council, I'rliti Utah.
Ouitleniin WV, the undersigned,
the Utah l'owir und Light compaii)
offir to furnh to the ulty of Trice all
the i let trie imwer nnd inerg) le
quired b It III the opt ration of the
municipal tleitrl' s)stem for suppl)
Ing the needs of the municipal") and
THE CARNIHl IS CflOD
Muhtl) Atteiidaiitv lJrg ""J Crowil
(,il lotn of rnJo)iiuiit.
Tho Pouthern Amu.tment itimiHiny
nlajlng hero this week under the nus.
kTof JL'rlees voluntier fire d. part-
in.nl l pVI"B rw,t UraW"i!1.
tu he rwildints of I'rlee as well as to
urrounulng towns. The comoan)
omned Monda) night for a weiks
engagement on the grounds south of
thrrallroud trucks and on the open-
..g n"ght u ell as the nlghU fol-
owing" attendance ha. been largi.
tolfilto of odvtrso weather eondl-
ions This Is one of the largest car
n'lval dm uinles traveling and the
hist that has ever l'la)ed this clt)
The at nu on an good and iher. U
S for the little rota -
fadvllke um'loc from the manager
tin i lilt. ns thi n of under the follow
ing terms and conditions
Plrst Tlii) M)lnt of deliver) shall
be nt or near the muulilpnl i lei trie
plant tit Price
Hiiunil The itirrtiil dillvind shall
Im Ihrrp-phuse nlternallng turrenl ut
approximate!) slxt) e)iles pir seroud
nnd twuit).hreo hundred volts.
Thlnl Ktrilto sliall eoinmenio not
later than Oitohtr 10, I91C
fourth Kirvlro shall be paid for
In ntforiliuite with tho power com
puiD's standard munltlpal sthrdulv
as follows
Two dollars pir month pir IC V.
of minimum demand, whkli two dol
llirs Includes thirty hours use per
month of the maximum demand load.
The next ninety hours use pt r
month of maximum demand nt thrto
i eats per IC W. hour.
The next one hundred and twent)
hours iist of the maximum demand
per month nt two tents per IC V.
hour
All ixcihmi lurrent ut ono ei nt per
K. W. hour.
In consideration of u tun-) ear ton
truit we nllow a discount of 10 per
cent when monthly bills nre paid on
or before tho 10th of the month.
I'lfth The minimum pn)ment shall
Ih two himdred dollars per month
and the minimum unnuul pa)ment
shull bo six thousand dollars.
Hlxth The powir company's stan
dard rules nnd regulations shall nppl)
tu this si rilu Itcspt-ctfull) submit
ted ITAII I'OWKIt ANI I.inilT I'O
II) W It Putnam, Hales Muuiigi r
Paul Chevketts, uged t )urs, was
kidnaped from thu Orphans lloniu mid
Day Nursery at Hall take City last
Monda) Upon Investigation It wus
learnt d that nsldents In th vlclnll)
of the orphaungn had situ two lie
grops taking lho bo) awa) Tho ihlld
Is the son of Mr and Mrs Hrnrj
Chevketts, forinei'l) of llilpiT, but
now dlvorted Chiekelts Is emplo)td
as a Jltnur und lllo (irando flremuu
out of Hull Uike Clt) Thn bo) was
some llmo ago lommltlid to thu du
niirstr) b) order of toiirt after much
lltlrutlon as to his guurdlanshlp. It
Is believed b) thn pollen the nigroes
wiru hired tu do the kidnaping b)
one of the pun uts.
down and It Is well worth tliif tluiu of
un)onu to seo tholihow The) are lure
for the balance of tho vvtuk, closing
Haturdu) night
mHL
(icorgn '. Millinore huffir slroto of
Paral)sU At 7lou.
Oeorge C, Whllmore the Ntphl
buukir, former state senator from that
district and a member of the board of
regunts of the University of Utah, suf
fered a stroke of pural)sls at Halt I-ake
Clt) last Monday, Word from there
which reuches The Sun Is that hopes
aro tnterlalnid for his eurly recover).
This Is the second time ho has thus
sufferid, the former attack being
about n ) ear ago This second attalk
only affected his throat and he has
not been unconscious at any tlmo. Mr
Whitman1 was In Prlcu about three"
weeks ago, and apparently was enjo).
Ing the ver best of health He has
man) friends throughout Eastern
Utah, who hope for hlm'the very best
I'liur Pit-Mim (Jo Our Kiubiiiikiiient
rar (limp of Sturm
An automobllo niildeut niiurred
Inst Prlda) aflirnoou Just below lho
Horrs tniup when it maihlno In which
four pinions wirv riding went over
ii thirl) -foot embankment Ono of
thn iKtupants Mrs. Illnke, was ion
sldirably brulstd up, but the otlura
escaped Injur) Tho machine was
owned and driven byJoe Mustaro mid
Hie incident was tatisid by Muscnro's
Ineiprrlenit us u driver. Mrs. Illnke
Is now undir lho earo of Vr (.'ham
btrlaln nt his home After lho mil
dent Museum illsuppiiired nnd has
not since shown up. Thu miichlnu
vvns computet)- demolished
IIIIBWTMB
i
Man PuIN Proin Car nml Is Driiggiil
Alsiiil 1rnt)-riti Miles,
An unldeiitlflid mitn, riding on lop
or p Denver nnd Itlo (Imndu dining
inr tin Train No. 3 Huturday night fell
from his perilous position ut n -point
about ti u mllis east of Prlie nnd In
some munnir wus drugged to Cedar,
ii distance of uhoiil lwiul)-flvn miles,
where ho was fount h) stillon men
Hunday morning In a d)lng condition
lie expired shortly utter being found.
Almost every bone In his hod) was
broken.
Tho muii Is not known hrrn and
carried no meuus of Identification
Tho ImiiI) was taken lo (In en lllver
where It Is being hold for possible
Identification.
All NuiiiiiI I 'or .Nouiiitx'r Million
Ihii pt In 'llirtv PriilnttH.
Tho board of toiiiii) commissioners
was In sosslon lust Tiusday, when reg
istration officers for the Nuvomber,
1918, eluilon wero named for thu ntv
srul pnnlnits of the oiint) The)
an
Wlnttr Quarlirs W J t'ralg
Hiofleld Iirs Joust n
Cusllo (lute !.el N Davis
llilper J, P Arnold
Hprlllg Oleii J II Itowlo)
Prlti MnttC ailmotir
Wellington W A Tha)n I
Clmr Crtek Cul Crugun
West Illuwutha John Iouinusler
Hast Hiawatha W I I.amph
lllauk lluvvk B. Huntschl, Hr
ICenllworth lleno Ulbbs
Utorrs Prank T Dennett
Agtnts for Carbonvlllo, Huunjslilo
and Harper ure )et to be ohosen
HWS noohi:vi:i,T in
' TO KUPPOItT Illt.llUS
NP.W YOIIK, June 20 llurr) H.
Joseph, delegate at large to tho Chi-,cag-
republican convention from
Utah, said today at the Waldorf As
toria that he had received posltlvo as
surance during tho convention that
Theodore Itoosivelt would support
tho republican nominee Joseph said
his authority was Theodoro Itoosevilt,
Jr.
pWhm A M. Htelenson of Colo
rado withdrew Itaosei ell's immo from
the convention I protested and told
him ho hud no right to do It," Joseph
said ' Then 4 sought out Young
ItooHcvolt, and he told me that It was
all right, that his father would oomo
out for Hughes
"M father will stand by the re
sults of the tonvintlon,' lloosovolt
told me."
ANNUAL CONFERENCE I
OF HEALTH OFFICERS I
Utah Ranks liih In Adopting Modern Methods '
of Prevention and Control of Disease I
Carbon County Is Represented ;B
Tin annual mirllng of the health
officers of the state was held In Halt
like Clt) last Thursda) nnd 1'rldn)
In netiirdnnre with the provisions of
the stnte ln,w About nno-flfth of tho
of fliers wen In attendance Carbon
count) was represented b Dr C K
McDermld of Winter Quarlirs nnd Dr
P. K. Kstes of Htnnilnrd villi- While
Utah is In some nspects In the fore
front of tho states adopting modern
methods of prevention nnd .control of
disease, n number of conditions need
ing great Improve mint were pointed
out by tho various speakers. This Is
due, primarily, to n luck of Interest
nnd understanding among thn people
Until n more gent rat Interest Is arous
ed and a wider knowledge of the great
loss due to slckmss, suffirlng, per
mnnenl illsnblllt) nnd actual mom
tnry expenditure for tho tare of those
crippled or left without support Is
gained, there tan not be ndequnto
work done b) the health authorities.
Much Intenst was shown In lho
lean town contest being conducted
b) the stall board of heilUi nnd n
general exchange of Ideas nnd effir
tlvu measures for stigrlng results will
bo of grenl help to the towns cult red
One of the most Tf It lout minus re
ported wns the preliminary storing of
the town two or threi tlmts before
the official time Also the showing In
the limit picture shows of tho best
premises nnd the plans showing tin
gnutisi Improvemijit b) work donti
Tin Inestimable value "f lho Hoy
Htiiuts and reports or Ihn value or
their work In preventing sickness nud
death wus imphaslxtd b) man) of thn
spinkirs. The papers on ' Commun
icable Discuses" b) Dr II fl Merrill
or Prom, "Hook) Mountain Hpottrd
Pevtr" by Dr It A. Pearse or llrlg
ham Clt), mid "Whooping Cough nnd
Mtuslis" by Dr. W H Ke)llng of Halt
ltkn City, und the dlsousslons follow
ing them, brought out tho many points
Hint should li( known und acted upon
b) ovir) iltlien of our state
Tho measures lo lessen sltkness nml
dentil rates should In gin before tho
birth of the cliliui nnd to this end,
every iixpntnnt mother should plnco
herself under thn earn of Inr ph)sl
clun ns early ns possible As tin re Is
ordlnnrll) no additional expense ut
tui bed lo this, failure to do so -can
only bn regarded as n disregard or
her own, her child's and the commun
ity hi tilth Propi r caru und feeding
of Infants and oung children will
greatl) tissen thu Very high death rate
among children tinder B )cars tu age
which, nt present, exceids the rate
from tuberculosis and Industrial no
ildents The stain board of health or
thn total health officer will furnish
free of c hnrgo circulars nnd Informa
tion that help thn molhirs to avoid
uiintiessary skkuess nnd develop
stronger children
The troublis gincrhll) known ns
"bub) diseases" urn not. In this mod
ern da), netcssar) dlseasts. ' The
prevalent Idea about mtasles, whoop
ing cough, i hlckenpox und the Ilka
that the children should "havo 'em
and gel It over with" t. ancient, un
enlightened and criminal Measles
nnd whooping tough, vvhlc.li uru so
llghtl) thought of by so man) parents,
havo n greuter diuth rule In propor
tion to tho number of tases occurring
than sturltt fever und diphtheria.
And no one wants his bub) in havo
scarlet fever or diphtheria to 'get It
over with" When w tousldir the
great number of ihlldnn who die the
next winter after their mtasles. from
pneumonia and the gnut number of
cases of tubinulosls which follow on
thn huls or measles and whooping
voiigh, we ma) will tonsldtr them
worth) roes to right Kvtr) ihlld
having a little sore throat' or a
"redd In the htmd ' should be Imme
diately kept away from other chil
dren nnd Inspected by.the local health
officer, tspevlall) If Oieru life custs
of contagious disease In the commun
ity In no case should a child be al
lowed to nttend school, church, pic
nics ball games or other gatherings
until known lo bo freo or contagious
disease No child who has been ab
sent from school from an) cause,
should be allowed to return without a
certificate rrom the doctor or lho to
tal health officer tliat ho Is free rrom
suspicion Concealment or contagi
ous disease and disregard or quaran
tine lire not to be tolerated, and tho I
health officers wiro Instructed to use
the nuthorlt) glviu Hum by the stale
laws and to mo that the penalties pro
vided aro meted out to those who w-
fully disregard tho health and this
of others
It wus urttd that vaccination ag
ainst t)phold fever and smallpox Jbo
taken advantage of by all, adults ns
well as children, as modern methods
and control of tho vaccines have re
moved the dangers or blood poison
and lockjaw that prejudiced no many
against vaccination jears ago Hick-
nesa nnd di nth rntes among dwellers '
on "Ihn good old furin" nnd In small iM
towns nnd villages, Is much too high M
and miith higher than Is generally ,H
realised This Is dun inulnl) to Im- iM
pure water suppl) nnd Improper dls- 1
posal or sewage, garbage, waste and f iHI
manure or tin so water nnd sewage '1
nre tly worst offenders, but nre close,- L jH
I) followed by thn rest Wnter can J iM
nlwn)s be made pure before- Use nnd ' M
It should bn considered n crowning M
disgrace In have an unsanitary privy H
on an proper!) Many men would M
be Jailed or 'run out" or their com- H
munliy ror failure to provide proper M
rood und tlothlng lo protect his ram- M
II) ugulnst wrnlher londltlons, )et H
public opinion Is only beginning to ' H
tnkn notice that n man may murder H
his wire nud children by failure to M
provide pure wnter nnd proper sew- H
ngn nud waste disposal And the M
sltkness, suffering nnd death are not JH
llinlteel to thn homo nnd family of the f jfl
careless one, but line) spread through- til
out thn entire rommtinll) Thn hrnltli ll
officers will furnish to nn)one, free. H
plans ror iheap mid efflclint privies I M
nnd will nisei look Into nnd ndvlsn ns i H
In proper correction or the other ov lis. H
The prnhtim if rallies wilt soon be J H
n vital one tiM'urtmii iinint) nnd ev- , H
ei-)onn should list his Influemn with H
the town iiniiulls and the county 'H
commissioners to secute thn early pas- H
sage nnd e ufortt numt of dog muxsllng H
rigulAilous, the extermination of stray ( H
dogs mid to)otis nnd possibly the ' . H
quarantine ngnlnst herds ntcompnnled ' ' H
b) dugs from regions now Infected ' jM
with nitdes. Onl) li em rgetla action H
now tan loss or lire, animals and , jl
money bo preveulid. Hoiky Moun- i "'.H
tuln spolttd fever (tick fever) Is LLI
spn tiding Inward Carbon county nnd lH
ir not safeguarded against will result ifH
In loss of IJfe im'd In surf i ring that , H
should have been prevented Thn dls- f'LLv
c use Is tonlruited onl) through the A H
bite of nn Infected vvnndtlck, nnd the h 'H
only known menus or prevention I i A H
Ihn rrequenl removal from thn body 'jj H
or ull ticks. It has been round th-vt ' H
It takes n tick rrom six to eight hours 'J H
In bore through thn skin nnd become' U .H
u danger so that Inspection or the -liH
bod) und removal of ticks found on i-PiH
thn body or thn tlothlng should pre- f, "i M
vent niiiulrlng Ihn disease Wearing ' M
leggings or high boots while In the tH
sagebrush will also Itsstn thu rhances 't'll
of Infection. An ointment of rorro- 1
slvci sublimate, luriientlne and aul- I H
phur In vaseline Is sulci In prevent the ! H
ticks from Incoming attached. i. H
Any diseased or suspicious looking iH
incuts or food products should bo nt iH
once reported to the local health of- . f '1
fleers. It Is tn bn hoped that regii- j, M
Dillons will soon bo emu led compell- , i !H
Ing nil slaughtering lo be elone In II- U tH
censed and supervised slaughter- J ttH
houses under federal Inspection Un- '. H ,H
der the presont regulalluns the public , ? KiinLH
Is subjected tn a ver) real clangor. At I IdJH
tho slaughterhouses under federal su- ilJ il
perilslon all unlmals nrn Inspected i 'vH
be fore udmlsslou mid there Is u rcgu- )), H
lar trade In Ihn condemned animals. ''SfiH
This condemned stock Is driven to the iXH
small or outllng districts, slaughter- "eV LLH
ed and sold b) eddlers nnd Ilia more I SHH
unscrupuliius dialers throughout the I ' H
state. In self protection thn ninsum- ,) H
vr should bo sure of tho source of the 4l'DnH
ineut or requlrn that It bear lho stamp u' Hfl
or tho full nil Inspector No com- tj H
inunlly should tolerate the use or salo !r IHH
or milk, butler, theese or other dairy , 1H
products rrom tows that have not - H
In en tested nnd round free from tuber- m il
miosis. A lioji nt t b) thu Individual : -TILLH
consumir of all markets, stores, bn- ' "l flH
ktrles, peddltrs, restaurants and the j I jH
like that are Mlil) unaanllur). fly- l ri9H
ridden or cureless tu their handling iHII
or foods would soon result In u great ' flH
decrrusu In thu amount and the serl- v Hll
ousness of tho sickness In the dls- ?HH
,rl(,t K h IBH
Tho great danger lo tho public li'lK' 'WBl
health b) tho handling or rain or V frfii mHI
sltkness by those iful trained In the Iff i! 'ifwfll
recognition and dlugnosls or disease K I tfMf JB
was brought to lha attention of the f 9H
meeting and the officers were urged HH 8 tlflBil
lo bv on the lookout for thu earliest 31 ''' ebVI
signs or communkabln diseases. It Ml IBrateB
was reported from a town In the sou- Ii) UJJiSEILh
them purt of tho state that tho non- W. rentMBB
recognition or one ease caused nn epl- iiufSfll
demlc that cost two lives and n mone- WriS MHI
lary loss to the town or over five thou- BHfi flflBBifl
sand dollars. ' Karl) attention to JEil liK
:sliktlcss Viay save thn lire of )our Ml VMP
J child or )ciur neighbors. Therefore, jCI fflEnH
I be careful and'treat the others In your EXE ,'9KjH
town as )ou wish thorn to treat ou," ttsKlftwPI
was the way one speaker expressed tw9,'9I9H
" mi frsSS
It Is In be regretted that more of- II I fciJ&qH
I fleers from this part or thi stajn were Blr i 4BB
I nut present and it Is hopod that next I'tliLL jH
')ear over) district will insist that its ilMrW JflH
I health officer attend the meeting iffilMtea
Mail service between Tucke-i and t&W'i 'iH
loillulj, b)th towns In Utah count), nKnlalifflHsl
has been discontinued, KBMHlLfl
