Northern West Virginia's Greatest Newspaper
FAIRMONT, WEST VIRGINIA, FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE 23,1916.
OICClATKHi
Daily AvgtffiSI
jSSjMay, 1916 Wfi
a Quality n?w?pap?r for th? Home
W
ESTABLISHED 1868. today's news today
???
* ADVERTISING IN
THE WEST VIRGINIAN
' BRINGS TRADE ?!
price two cent8
ASSOCIATED
STATE GUARDS TO BE RUSHED TO RIO GRAND]
CAPTAIN CHARLES I. BOKD
AND UEUTENANIH. R. ADAIR
WERE KILLEDRY MEXICANS
Reports That State Guards Have Been
Ordered to Report Denied
by Baker
FIINSTQN FORCESli FUR MiHllE
(By Associated Press.)
GUARDS ORDERED FORWARD.
WASHINGTON, June 23?Secretary Baker today is
sued orders to all amy departmental commanders to send
to the Mexican border all militia available immediately
upon their organization without waiting for completion
of mobilization of the separate states.
The commanders were requested to notify General
Funston when each regiment, troop, battery or other unit
completes muster. General Funston will indicate where
he wishes the forces sent in each instance and the depart
mental commander without further instrctions from
Washington will arrange transportation and sned for
ward.
The original orders to guardsmen were for mobiliza
tion in state concentration camps to await further orders.
The War Department had planned to call on the states
; which effected the best and earliest complete mabilization
' having rgard to distance and time for transportation. To
day orders are expected to result in immediate movement
toward the border of separate regiments from many states
whose entire guard strength has not been assembled.
WASHINGTON, June 23.?A preliminary report from General
Pershing on the Carrizal fight bawd on stories told by stragglers reaching the
headquarters of the American expedition and on Mexican rumors was taken
to the White House early today by Secretary Baker.
The Secretary said General Pershing himself did not regard the report
as an official statement of what had happened and indicated that no attempt
to decide the course to be pursued by the United States would be made until
a complete account had been received. In the meantime the preliminary re
port will not be made public, although it is understood to be substantially
in accord with a version given to border press dispatches last night.
Officials are greatly worried over the delay in getting news from sur
viving officers of the little Tenth cavalry detachment which engaged a super
ior force of Mexicans. According to Mexican official accounts there were
about 76 Americans, 17 of whom were taken prisoners. Captain Charles T.
Boyd, Lieut. Henry R. Adair and 10 men are said to have been killed.
Gen. Pershing said he hoped to have a report from surviving officers
by courier during the day.
Secretary Baker denied rumors of plans for an immediate call for vol
unteers to add to the regular and national guard force. He also said there
had been no additional orders over night (or troop movements.
Fears Are Felt For
Men Taken Prisoners
(By Associated Press)
EL PASO, June 23.?American
gum command the situation at every
-important border point today. Field
artillery has been mounted on hillocks
in the larger communities, the noses of
their guns pointing in a southerly direc
tion, while in smaller towns machine
gun detachments have been stationed.
Military authorities here and in
other border encampments announced
every preparation had been made for
possible hostilities.
After waiting 48 hours the border
read news dispatches giving the Amer
ican version of the fight at Carrizal
containing General Pershing's report
that it was an unprovoked attack on
the Americans, and then lapsed into
expectant waiting.
When the dispatches were read to
Gen. George Bell, Jr., Commanding
the El Paso military district, over the
telephone early today, he expressed
keen gratification, but said he had re
ceived no additional orders from de
partmental headquarters. "I knew it,"
he exclaimed, "I knew our men did not
start that fight."
Grave apprehension was manifested
here for the safety of the 17 American
prisoners taken in the engagement who
are held by General Trevino, proba
bly in Chihuahua City.
It was pointed out that should hos
tilities occur the Mexicans probably
will attempt to carry out threats made
by subordinates to hang the captives.
With the receipt of Gen. Pershing's
first report military authorities here felt
confident that supplement?.! reports
would be received tedav jiving addi
tional details of the fight and news of.
' jbe trro aqiadraoi ?f the Eleventh cav-1
| airy who were sent to replace the
' troops of of the Tenth.
A few of the troops that evacuated
| Juarez had returned today and there
were reports that the reoccupation of
j the town by the entire former garrison
I of 4,000 is contemplated.
i During the early morning hours in
the Mexican town only a few scatter
ing military patrols were on the street.
I General Francisco Gonzales, com
jmandant, and Andres Garcia, consul
: at El Paso, who recently had been
j sleeping on the American side, rode
through the streets on horseback, ap
| parently making an inspection tour.
Street car traffic across the river,
which was stopped last night, was re
sumed today. Indications that all
| preparations have been made for a
hasty departure of the remnant of the
garrison if expedient were to be found
1 in the railroad yards, where two troop
trains with steam up stood ready for
instant departure. On one of them 50
machine guns and three 70-milometer
field pieces were loaded. Reports cur
rent in Mexican circles that General
Obregon, Mexican minister of war,
has issued a manifesto offering to ac
cept the services of all rebel leaders in
the event of hostilities with the United
States found some confirmation in the
fact that today a number of Mexicans!
who had been exiled for political rea
sons crossed into Juarez. I
Gen. Gonzales declined to discuss!
the report other than to say that "any
Mexican not an outlaw is welcome to
his mother land today."
Over night reports from along the
border were more or less routine in
character, indicating that in the Amer
ican town the people were passively
awaiting developments. An increas
ing activity of both troops and civilian
population in the Mexican town was
indicated, however. Some interest was
manifested in orders issued by the de
facto consular offices instructing Mex
icans in their district to return to Mex
ico ?t one*
Comwnnds United States Trooos Below Border
BRIGADIER GENERAL JOHN J..PERSHINC.
JAPAN WILL NOT
AID THE MEXICANS
?
Baron Ishii Makes Emphat
ic Denial to That Ef
fect.
(By Associated Press)
TOKIO, June 23.?"Of course an)
claim that the Japanse government
will asfiit Mexicans, with munitions and
arms is out of the question and absurd
said Baron Ishii, foreign minister, to a
correspondent of the Assocated Press
who asked him today for his views on
the ffexican situation.
The interview was sought on ac
count of declarations attributed to
Mexicans that assurances had boon
received from Japan that muuitions
and other assitance would be given
Mexico in event of war with United
States.
"As for private Japanese companies j
selling arms to Mexicans" the foreign j
minister continued "I consider it ex
tremely improbable. As you know all
available rifles and guns are being
furnlBh?6 to Japans allies to assist in
bringing the European war to a suc
cessful issue. And I fancy, though I do
not know, that munitions not avail
able for our allies may have found
their way to China during the revolu
tionary troubles."
"Let me say this with all the empha
sis and earnestness at my command,"
said the minister swinging round in
his chair." The Jaanese nation sin
cerely hopes that armed conflict be
twen the United States and Mexico
may be avoided. Japan's intersts in
American, North, Central and South
being essentially pacific and commer
cial, any event bringing disturbances
into the American market would bo
felt keenly In Japan. This is especial
ly true at a moment when the whole
European trade Is virtually closed to S
Japan and the Chinese1 market ser- j
|iously upset
Another Honor For !
Rev, J, C. Broomfield
?
Dr. J. C. Broomfield has. returned
from Pittsburg where he had spent the
last two days attending a meeting of
the Executive Committee .of the Qep
oral Methodist' Protestant Conference.
Dr. Broomfield was made chairman of
the Commission of Forward movement
of the denomination. The committee
is composed of seven members who
have direct supervision of the "For
wartf movement" on the entire denom-1
lnation. The position to which Dr.
Bromfleld Is apointed is a most r$H
sponsible o&a.
Twenty Thousand Dollar
Claim Brought Just
$3,300.
Only $5,515 was realzied from the
sale of nearly $50,000 of book accounts
due the Four States Coal and Coke
Company today. Capt. C. S. Greer, of
Pittsburg, auctioned the accounts from
the front door of the Marlon county
court house on the behalf of the re
ceivers of; the company. The receiv
i ere, J. W. Ailes, P. R. Babcock and
| John H. Jones, all of Pittsburgh, were
present together with several other
financiers interested in the com-"
pany.
The accounts which are among the i
assets of the bankrupt company consist
uu oi many, small sums due from oth
er coal companies and corporation*
and various lanviuldlds
single account auctioned as a separ
ate item was the amount duo from the
Pittsburg and Buffalo Coal company,
amounting to $20,000. When auctioned
this brought $3,300.
This sale is in accordance with the
dissolving of the company recently
and the surrender of their charter
to the secretary of the state. The
mine at Annabelle and the other real
property owned by the company in
West Virginia were sold some time
ago to satisfy the claims of the mort
gage and bond holdors. This property
was bought up by a committoe rep
sentlng the interests of these bond
holders and the mine in Marion county
at Annabelle Is now operated by these
people.
According to local financiers who
are among the bond holders of the
dissolved company the mine will con
tinue to be operated as hertofore and
a r2-DrgM.izat.cn of tho present owners*
will likely be made son. Mr. Jones,
fc:me? president of the Fonr State
company, had nothing to say today and
would make no statemeui as to the
expectations of the-directors of the
company of tho amount of the pro
rata returns given to the stockholders
whon all the assets of the company
have been turned Into cash.
CHEMICAL PLANTS BURN
PITTSBURGH, June 2..?Expos
ions in the plant of the Liquid Car*
bonlc company here today caused a
Are. which -destroyed the factory
building *nd extended to the plant of
the British-American chemical com
pan/ which also waj destroyed.
GERMANS ATTACK
IN CHAMPAGNE
French Report Says They
Were Repulsed After
Close Fighting.
(By Associated Press)
PARIS, June 23?The Germans have
launched a heavy attack in the Cham
pagne district The violent assaults
on the Freijcb trenches in the region
of Mont Tetu wore repulsed last night
atfer severe fighting iwth grenades and
bayonets, according to an official state
ment isLued by war office.
. West of the Mouse in the Verdun
section the Germans again attacked
hill No. 304 and there was lively in
jfantry lighting near Dead Man hill.
There was heavy artillery Are all
jn^r.t in this sector. It- was particu
i larly violent east of the Meuse around
the Vaux front.
New Siding For
Fairview Line
I Work has been started on a new sid.
ing of tho Monongahela Valloy trac
tion company on their Fairview line.
This siding Is' bolng built between
Fairview and Basnettsville and is for
the accommodation of the Hope Gas
cfompany who are having a consider
able amount of casing shipped Into
this field to handle the new produc
tion that Is the result of the recent
activities near Miracle Run.
The rumor that a new gasoline plant
would be built by the Hope companj
near Fairview was denied today by
tho Hope officials. It is possible th?U
tho Monongahela Valley Traction
company will build a gasoline plant in
this section some time this summer as
the rapid development of their terri
tory in this region ha8 increased their
gas supply so that a compression for
the production of gasoline may soon
be practical
WILL KEEP TRAINS RUNNING
Altoona. Pa.. June 23.?Nlnty-flve
per cent, of the Pennsylvania rail
road shopmen hav0 volunteered for
train service in the event of a strike
of the Brotherhood, according to state
ment issued lost night from the office
of General Superintendent George W.
Crolghton.
The Weather,
West Virginia?Fair and warmer
tonight Saturday probably showers.
LOCAL WEATHER READINGS
Temperature at S a. m. today 66.
Yesterday's weather clear; temper
ature. maximum 77; minimum 48, pre
cipitation none.
IAL
TO BE Ml OF
Chamber of Commerce's New
ceed Upon Scientific Lines to
Factories Hera*
? X
I NEW MAN'S NAME IS
He Holds a Degree As Industrial Engineer
University and Has Had Much
Experience. t
J. R. Speed, the industrial engineer
engaged by the local Chamber of
Commerce to take active charge of the
work of developing Fairmont, arrived
in Fairmont today and will begin his
work immediately. Mr. Speed is a
graduate of the engineering school at
Lehigh University and has had consid
erable experience in industrial work
both from the standpoint of the manu
facturer and the sonsumer, in the busy
years since receiving his degree.
The entire day was spent by Mr.
Speed in meeting the members of the
chamber and local business and manu-1
facturing men who are interested in the I
work of Fairmont's economic and com-1
mercial development. Speaking of his I
immediate plans for his work here, Mr.!
Spc: j said: "I do not expect to set the I
world afire or to start a 'boom.'!
'Boom* is a word that is hardly appli
cable to the work I hope to begin here,
as the dictionary says that it means a
'hollow roar.' I do hope, however, to
show results, and do not wish to be
judged except on the results I can
show. First, I intend to make an ac
curate survey and tabulation of the
local industries, together with the
freight rates to and from Fairmont and
the possible reductions that may be
made in any of the rates and the vari
ous other data that prospective indus
trial concerns will want to know about
a town before they will even consider
it as a possible location for their plant.
I intend to arrange in accessible and
understandable form as many of the
facts about Fairmont as is possible and
Wonderful Vitality
May Save Clayton
William Clayton the young tool
dresser who was so terribly injured
when the rope attached to the drilling
tools at an oil well broke and hurled
him twenty or more feet into the air
hag a good chance to recover In spite
of the serious, natures of the wounds '
he sustained when be landed upon the I
upturned leg of a chair
He was operated upon again yester
day afternoon to drain the residue in
the tissues from the ruptured bladded.
He rested well last night and was la !
excellent condition this morning.
His psysician, Dr. Harness, says |
that on account of his wonderful vit- j
ality he now has more than nn even
chance for recovery- However there
is still a chance for a urenic poison
ing or a septic infection.
determine from an engineering, stand
point the various line* of industries
which the facilities and conditions in .
Fairmont would be most likely
terest.
"The cooperation of all the mantv .
facturers and business men of FiraMt^
will be necassary in ascertaining ay
data and probably six weeks or leu
will be required to make this sum?. I ;
will begin this work at once and if pos
sible hope to have it completed '
within thirty days.
"As soon as this is done we
in shape to interest manufacturer! t&b.
are seeking locations. There are many
I oi these that we can not hope to secure
and it would be folly for the Fairmont' *
Chamber to attempt to secure any new
Industry for the community unless tke
conditions her are such that tKe enter*' ?
prise could be operated on a profitable
basis. The advantages of this 'con& _']
munity as an industrial field will, how
ever, be presented in a concrete and'
I businesslike manner to all indui
I throughout the country that could bei
operated profitably in this community.
Working along these lines ^
! operation of the community, I am c?53p
; tain that results can be obtained.'V
Mr. Speed, as his name indicate, is
a live man who is not addicted to pro
crastination, and in company with Seo
! retary Evans of the Chamber of Com* ^
merce visited a number of the proflfc?' P
|nent business men and manufacl
of the city today, and will begin 1
work of preparing a summary or tabu
lation of the available resource of the
community at once. ?.
?:?-MM
R. R. Baker Dies
at Home of Son
R. R. Baker, aged 77 year,, dtod
I Thursday morning at 9 o'clock at the
homo of his son. Q. F. Baker on Ninth
? atroot. He was stricken with paraljr* .
sis a week a go and had been since to a
hopeless condition. Members of the |
family had been gathered at hia bed? I
side for several days and were with ]
him when the end came. ' i
Deceased is survived by two danfh- |
ters and three sons namely. Mrs. Thoa. j
Jarrett of Meadowbrook, Mrs. Hai^'i
Johnston of Clarksburg, Fred;BaVir of
Monongah, Edgar Baker of Brave,
Pa., and 0. F. Baker of this city. Hla
wife died 3 years ago. ?
Funeral sorvices will be held'from
his late home on Sunday attenm&^|ra
at 1 o'clock and the body will be tak?
en to Shlnnston for interment . ) ' 1
Hard Work the Pole to Knoe&
Down the Largest Persimmons
After tomorrow night at nine o'clock
there will be no more of the Seventy
five thousand bonus vote ballots given
out to workers In the West Virginian
Seven Thousand club. Those who have
taken advantage of this offer will
have secured the big lead in the race,
and those who have not will have to
work Just that much harder in order
to secure a share of the $3,200 In big
cash and merchandise prizes which
the active members of the club will
receive free.
Prizes Waiting
The big Overland sir is all ready
and waiting to be claimed by it's own
er. The two high-grade pianos are at
the Kuhn piano store waiting for the
winners of the second and third places
in the race. All the other prizes aro
ready and waiting for the hustlers.
But the question is will YOU be one
of the prize winners. Will you be on
the list of the lucky ones when the
judges finish the connt on July 8.
A Real Opportunity
These prizes are not for the weak
hearted those who lack persistence
and ambition. They are big awards,
and will mean much to thode who re
ceive them. But it takes effort and
ability to secure the larger awards.
If yon" are capable of this, then the
Seven Thousand club ig a real oppor*
?unity for you. If you neM money
and will not be content with earning
just a few dollars, the Seven Thou
sand clob will give yon the chance
you want.
Don't Be Discouraged
Don't discouraged. "Faint heart
ne'er won fair lady," and ll jrou are
easily turned off the track,:yon will
never arrive at aucceaa in this cam*
palgn. Resolve to atay with It,'and
secure everything you can from It. j
You cannot lose. You ai$|j0w9HH
teed a liberal cash salary, and if JPM
put forth real effort you art tnr? to
receive a prize.
The Knockert
If you have already been out hntfr
ling you have no doubt been tpproadb**
ed by the "knocker."' No true effort
but what will bring forth; the knock- |
er who will try to diacourage Ik- :Ha*i
Is either the man who has hia own aeU j
flah intorests at hoart, or whO^wlo.
never accomplished anything
while in life hlmaelf and who'Moftffl.
believe of**** poodle ran either. Don't -j
n to him. If you keep right on
going aheau uud trying as hardens you j
can you will have a good healthy bank
account while he 1b out trying] to'bor?
row a five to pay the grocer! or tha
butcher.
Room For More Boostara.
We want tc bring home the fact |
right now that there la still room tor
good llve-wlra In the Seven Thousand
club. There are titlll territories In
which real work will accomplish more
than any member of the clut> hits yet
done in the way of securing votes.
There are aeveral placea in District
No. 2 and all of District No.-2 is es
pecially good for the new wQllpIV -
If you feel In the least intaraattag la
winning a big prize, don't put It off.
Come in and get aupplle* and a re-*
ceipt book today. Youfwill find your
self on the road to happintt? and
cost betas* jou realftuMjW
