o "When remedies are past, the griefs are ended, by seeing the worst, which late on hopes depended." othe"-
.. ' ; ' ; s.i lv er, 65 3-s gen ts '.. -,
t
Fair Tonight and Saturday
Contlnutd Warmth ',
TONOPA
h Daily Bonanza
fM I 1
METAL QUOTATION
ftllver u..". ..- 66
r,.r 27!a-2H X
Lead 8-80 X
Quicksilver
70480
I "'JM2i!ll
VOL XVI--NO. 8
TONOPAH, NEVADA, FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE 23, 1916
PRICE 10 CENTS
0 0 Q 0 0 0 0 H H H 11 lil liJ ih -
'REPORTS FROM CARRE AL MAKE IT WORSE THBN EVB8
FIFTY PER CENT OF TROOP KNOWN TO BE KILLED
AND IT IS FEARED REMAINDER MET SAME FATE
Peliminary Reports From Pershing Explain the Possibil
ity That Not One Man of Capt. Boyd's Troop Survived
or Escaped to Tell All the Facts of the Massacre.
(By JUaartatrd Pr.)
WASHINGTON, June "23. Secretary of War liaker published
May a report from General Pershing of the fiht. at ('arrival. based
on personal questioning of the men of two troops of the Tenth
Cavalry. The answers indicated that the attack upon the soldiers
was not provoked, but gave no estimate of the casualties on either
kide. Pershing hail no opportunity to confer with any, officer of
the two troops, ho .Secretary Baker said definite conclusion of where
the blame rested could not be fornied.
(Sty Associated Prsss.)
SAN ANTONIO, June 2U. According to General Pershing's
preliminary report to General Funstou, virtually one troop under
command of Captain Boyd was wiped out when almost surrounded
bv Mexicans in the fight ' at Carrizal. It would seemHhat men
assigned to holding the horses straggled into camp after having
left during the fighting. Their story indicates that, with seventeen
prisoners in Chihuahua, fifty per cent of the command wasViped
out. With the information available it is by no means certain
1hat the command was not virtually annihilated.
'I Br AuocJatra Pr-u.f '
WASHINGTON, June 21 Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican ambassa
dor, personally informed the South and Central American diplomatic
representatives that the Carranza troops in Chihuahua were undci
orders not to attack American troops unless they assumed an aggres
wvc stand. He said he acted on the instructions of his foreign
office. 1
Attack On Annapolis Crew
At Matlari Unprovoked
tHr Ausrlalvd l're.
WASHINGTON, June 2K. The outlook for peace between the
United States and Mexico is conceded in official circles to be far
from bright. The tension was not lessened by tin official report
of the Secretary of the Navy that there was no provocation by
the Americans for an attack on the Annapolis boat's crew at
Mazatlan. So unfavorable was the outlook regarded that Secretary
. Baker issued orders for the immediate' erifrainment of 10,0()()
guardsmen in the central and western states.
Dispatches from Mexico City indicate the leaders of the Carran.a
government may show an attitude favorable to peace and try to
avert a break, but no hope is expressed here.
Interest was expressed in the report that Villa is at Escalon
negotiating for amnesty and a commission in the Mexican army.
EXTRA
FOUR O'CLOCK
THIRSTING
FOR BLOOD
GUARDS ORDERED TO
ACT WITHOUT DELAY
No Time For Mobilization or Re
cruiting to Till Vacancies, But
Wanted at Once
Trevino Places the Blame
' On Insolence of Americans
CHIHUAHUA CITY, June 2'!. Criticism of American niililarj
men who are said to have caused the trouble between Mexico alio
1he United States was made by General Jacinto Trevino, military
commander of the northeastern army in Mexico, in an interview
with the. Associated Press. He said: "The American military
disobeyed orders of their own chiefs and never respected the
feelings of Mexican citizens and contemptuously ignored the
disposition of troops made by the Mexican government." He said
he did not want war and is doing his best to control the
situation.
4 By Aaaoclatrd Praia.
DOUGLAS, Ariz.., June 2:5. Preparations for all developments
sire being completed by the United States military authorities. It
is learned that efforts will be made to lease buildings to store
supplies. Railroads are forbidden to send cars to Mexico.
1 lla A ..n.lal.il .!
WASHINGTON, June 23. Secretary Baker issued orders looay
to departmental commanders to send to the border all militia
available immediately for the completion of organization without
cam ANTONIO 400 n m Fnr awaiting lor completion oi me iiiouiu7.awuu m meir ujaiaic
that thf r-nnnnitiRq miirprad hv Rovd'a General r unston will indicate where he wishes the ioree sent. ..aacii
command were very heavy Is ex- departmental commander will .arrange transportation.
pressed by officers. It Is pointed out I
.1 . I i , 1 1 1 I
iuai u iweive w?re auieu an repurieu i .B Aaclte Fraa.)
from Mexican sources it would mean WASHTMftTON .Tim 9't -NMwturv Ruber fnUil t the White
iony wounueu, accoruiug iu ineiTr , . ... trrn
....i . 4i- u.,-1. ...-! i . House today for a conference with Wilson.
' ' I . j . i ii i - i : L. r, i i n ...j
expressed over the fate of the re- report uireci trum x-ersuing regurumu; e vsmisi uguiuig uu
mainder of the command, which re- said there was no change in the policy. Pershing s formal report
treated. l is still awaited. No further orders were issued to the regulars or
militia. : ,
Baker took the preliminary Pershing report to the President,
which is based on the statements of stragglers. No attempt was
made to decide the' course of the United States until an official
report, is received.
I By' Aaauclatcd Krcaa.)
WASHINGTON, June 23. Immediate action on the resolution
By AaHtatrrt Preaa.1
COLUMBUS, June 23. Making no
secret of their Intention of return
Ing to "Clean up the gringoeg," Mexl
oan; customs officials at the "bordei
gate." throe miles south, packed up
their "posHeHsjons bft "burroB and
appeared in the direction of Juarez.
American scouting patrols reported I
to heatiqtiartera a small detail of I authorizing the rresident to dratt into the federal service national
Carranzistas encamped twenty mile g,iar(ismen was" asked by Congressman Hay, who incorporated
ail auiiuuiiii.it ui.iiusjAig itub vmi.i gviitj is CAinilUg lOr tt UrHlL,
which the House unanimously adopted.
siule to determine whether it wax
an outpost or some troops that evacu
lated Juarez yesterday. Extra sen
tries were thrown out as a precau
tion.
(By AaaoHated Praa.
QALVE3TON, June 23. Ail oil
camps of the Tuxpam region hav
been abandoned, according to refu
gees arriving. Thirty were in one
party. They were warned by the
American consular agent to leave
the country, but declined when they
ARRANGEMENTS OF FLOATS FOR
All ARTISTIC CELEBRATIOII
(Continued on Page Four.)
CULMINATION OF
III
A SWEET ROMANC
E
DEGAN-GUILFOYLE NUPTIALS
CELEBRATED BY OLD PASTOR
OF BRIDE IN CALIFORNIA
Japan is Friendly
To United States
"BORAX" SMITH, MULTI-MILLIONAIRE,
REVISITS SCENES OF HIS BOYHOOD
A aweet little romance of consider
able duration culminated yesterday
afternoon In a quiet wedding In the
land of sunshine and flowers. Miss
Anita M. Degan and J. M. Gullfoyle
were married at Turlock, near Mo
desto, California,' by Father Heslln,
an old-time friend of the Degan
family. The bride was a graduate
of a San Francisco high school and
h.n ah. was a little girl Father
Heslin. who was rector of St. Vln
eent de Paul, San Francisco, used to
tell her that when she was going to
get married he would travel to the
end of the world to perform the cere
mony. So, instead of having him
come to her, the would-be wedded
ones went to him. Mr. Gullfoyle la
a native of Boston and Tor many
year was manager of Jhe Palace)
Hardware Co. In Ooldfleld, coming to
Tonopah later as manager of the
Lothrop Davis Co., and la one of
Tonopah'a most leading citizens.
Miss Degan haa been popular In
the young social circle. She la ac
complished In mualc, possessing a
rich contralto voice, and her winning
personality has won her hosts of
friends. For a r. umber of years she
haa been Ink kkeeper at the Lothrop
Davis Co.
Mr. and Mrs. Gullfoyle will tour
through the Ynsemite and will be
at home In Tonopah the latter part
of the month. When Miss -Degan
went out a few weeks ago It was
understood she would take an ex
tended vacation In and around Seat-
(By Aaaovlated Prraa.)
TOKIO, June 23. "Of course any claim that the Japanese
government will assist Mexico with munitions is out of the question
and absurd," said Baron Ishi, foreign minister, to the Associated
Press.
The interview was sought oil account of declarations attributed
to Mexicans that assurances had been received from Japan that
munitions and other assistance would be given Mexico in the event
of war with the United States.
. "As for private Japanese companies selling arms to Mexicans
u t.h baron dld. 14 All
a. luumui i . in tAiii " " J " t
available munitions will be furnished to Japan's allies in the Euro
pean conflict." -
Ishi said he never heard of General Ramon Iturbide, who was
said to have gone to Japan on a secret mission.
PEACE MOVEMENT
II
BEGINS Oil BORDER
1 Br Aaaorlated 1rma.t
NEW YORK,1 June' 23. A move
ment to call a conference of Ameri
can and Mexican citizens at El Paso
In an .effort to avert , war is aiv
nounced by the 'Amerloan union op
posed to 'militarism
I
I FIGHTING
GOES BRAVELY ON
THREE FRESH AND FURIOUS
ASSAULTS BY TEUTONS ON
FRENCH FIR8T LINE
sm. Bryan, Jordan, !av(! launched a heavy
and Frank P. Walsh of Kansas City j rhismazne district. Three vlolnt
are being urged to
Paso Immediately. . ,
iSy AM'lalrd Prvaa.t
PARIS, June 23. The Germans
attack In the
Chimipagne district
proceed to F.I 1 ftHM,ifS in the region of the Monl
1 i 'Te'ti French trenches were repulsed j him.
'! f,, .r flithtliia- with grenades "There Is nothing like It,
and his quick Liml hayoneta. West of the Meue
the coast the Verdun sector the dermans
Frank M. Smith, better known by
the pseudonym of "Borax," the father
of the industry that brought Death
Valley out of chaos and produced
millions for the men wKh courage
and nerve to venture on the un
threaded paths of enterprise, wag a
visitor to Tonopah yesterday. He
came In from l-isn uase vaney,
where he was visiting hla ranch In
that beautiful stretch of country and
then continued on to .Tonopah to
spend the evening. He took In the
Halifax and West End mines, of
which he is the largest stockholder,,
and expressed himself delighted with
'he general appearance of prosperity
In the camp. This morning Mr
Smith took the train for the coast.
The name of 8mUh is so closely
interwoven with the development of
i he soul hern country that it ia a
household word, but III the present
generation there are few who reallae
that the man who gave Oakland Its
splendid system of terminal and
network of trolley linea got his start
within a few mllea of .Tonopah. It
was recalled by Mr. Smith this morn
ing In conversation with the editor
of the Bonanza, to whom he confided
that he never knew what a restful
atmosphere was on the desert until
long years after he had moved to
the oilier world and began to feel the
cares and responsibilities thrust upon
The following floats are being pre-1
pared for the big parade, which takes
place at 10 o'clock the morning of the
Fourth: No. 1. Betsy Ross, showing
the making of the great American
flag. No. 2. The Union of the North
and South. No. 3. Lewis and Clark
Expedition, blazing the way to the
great northwest. No. 4. The Panama
Canal. This float will be perhaps the
most intricate and expensive ever
attempted in a celebration of the
of old Esmeralda county. I got off kind Tonopah Is giving this year.
the train the other day at Coaldale iss iwmont, in cnarge oi me noat
. . . x , ,. ., for ttie uooaess or Lioerty ana ner
and my first thought was of the old '
I court . of honor, haa designed one of
camp where I saw so many happy th , elaborate and de80rlntive
and hard-working days. There It was designs, representing a beautiful gar-
off on the horizon, seen aa clearly den scene with canary birds singing
mid distinctly in the mirage as though 'a the trees, beautiful palms and
it exiBted in all the Importance of 'ems waving in the wind, the whole
its early youth. Of course, I knew I brought to a climax with the Goddess
the mirage covered a multitude of 01i hep throne surrounded , by her
sins and glorified the ruins, for there maids.
Is little there now but the crumbling Mr- Lenore Sollender Hanby, in
adobe. In spite of this fact the town charge of . the exercises to he given
of Columbus will always have a ten Immediately after the parade from
der spot in my heart, for it was the 'be reviewing stand on Main street,
place where I got my start and the arranging a aplendid program, con-
town that gave me more real pleasure elating of the crowning of the God
than any that I have experienced dees, a short address, several vocal
since. It was only thirteen mile" soloB accompanied by the entire Ton-
away, but I waa in a hurry and could 0Ph Military band. This feature
not stop to revisit the old acenes should indeed be impressive and lend
which recalled vividly the days when much to the pleasure of the day,
myself and associates located Co-I The big advance sale of seata fpr
nimbus Marsh and Teel'e Marsh, the boxing carnival to be held: the
With the revival n silver I would not night of the 3rd at the Atrdome
be surprised to see Columbus come opened at the Cobweb, Bank Saloon,
back, but it will never have the Tonopah Club, Tonopah Liquor Qo.
same picturesque surroundings It had and the Northern last night and
when I packed wood on burros In already a number of ringside reaerva
1871 to the mills that kept poundint I tlons have been made. The program
were in Tonopah laat night and both
expect to be returned the winner on
the evening of the third.
The card will wind up with a great
ten-round fight between Antone 1 -Grave,
the "butcher boy," and Johnny
McCarty, the champion welterweight
of the Pacific coast, for a purse of
$500, at 150 pounds. This is perhaps
the best card ever offered the local
publio at thevsame old popular prices
of ringside $3 and 2, general admis
sion $1, and a record crowd should
greet HoneBt Mike Geary of Goldfleld
when he calls the boys together tn
the ring to give them their Instruc
tions.
days ago, quite ill,
came as grateful news to numerous attacked hlH No. 304 and there -iwsb
tie. Mr. QuiHoyle toft here a tew parity.
friends and acquaintances, who wish
the young couple a wedded life re
plete with health, weeJthi and pros-
lively Infantry fighting on Dead Man's
hill. There waa an artillery exchange
particularly east of the Meuse, on the
4Vauv front.
he ex
claimed this morning as he atood
on the depot platform filling his lungs
with the bracing breeze blowing right
off the desert. "The more I travel
the more my thoughts turn to the
old days of Columbus, when that
town was one of the growing centers
TODAY AND A YEAR AGO 4
' 1916 1915
B a. m. ........62 55 i
8 a. m. :......l. ....70 70
12 noon .. 75 79
2 d. m 7b 10 a
iw 043 W
Relative humidity at 2 p. m.
today, 13 per cent. 4
away day and night on the ores of
Candelarla, which we thought would
never be exhausted. ' 'Ah, them were
Hie days,'" concluded the man who
adopted the twenty-mula learn trade
mark and Jet the world know that
the deserts of Nevada were richer
In their minerals than other countries
were In agriculture.
Reference to the physical condition
of the Halifax 'and West End mines
brought out a statement that Words
could not describe the resources of
those properties, but that time would
tell.
la unusually large and offers many
attractive features to the lovers of
the wrestling and boxing game. The
show will start .promptly at 9 p. m.
with a grand wrestling match be
tween Paddy Cannon of Goldfleld and
Tony Baragage of Tonopah, eatch-aa-catch-can
style, for a purse of 250
and an additional side bet of $250,
best two out of three falls, winner
take all. This event will be followed
by a hot six-round go between
Johnny Morrison of Goldfleld and Kid
Bromeo ot San Francisco for a purse
ot 1250. Both ot these clever boxers
BUTLER.
THEATRE
TODAY
: The Screen's most
potent personality
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNQ "
AND '
WILTON LAO KAY I
The Stage's
foremost dramatlo actor
In
"TRILBY"
Du Maurler'e fameue
dramatic classic
6th number of the railroad feature
TOMORROW
"The Qlrl end the Qama"
With Helen Holmea
CHARLIE CHAPLIN
la Hla First Mutual Relaaae
THS FLOOR WALKER"
Also "THE CYCLE OF FATE"
With BESSIE CYTON
