hl.e 0a Odwei Fll)Y'" 11
V'OL. 30. COUAM1IA, LOUISIANA, FRIDAY, JUNE 2:. 1916.
100,000 MORE MEN
FOR MEXICAN DUTY
THEY WILL BE MOBILIZED IMME
DIATELY FOR SERVICE ON
THE BORDER.
MORE WARSHIPS SENT OUT
At the War, Navy and State Depart
ments, It Was Stated That No New
Advices as to the Situation
in Mexico Had Corre.
Wa<shin.uton.- Virtually the entire
mobile strrng;hI of h i N: tiounal Guard
of the United State:; was ordered nmus
tered Into the federal service by
President Wilson. Abou:t 10)0,00(0 iln
are expected to respond to the era:!.
They will be mobilized immediately
for such service on tlhe Mexican bor
der as later may be, assigic~f t them.
Gen. Frederick FVnston, 'om~imanod
Ing the border forces, will d(esignate
the time and place for movements: of
guardsmen to the international line as
the occasion shall require.
In announcing the orders. Secretary
Baker said the state forces will be emr
ployed only to guard the border and
that no additional troop movements in
to Mexico are contemplated except in
pursuit of raiders.
Navy Also Busy.
Simultaneously with the National
Guard call, Secretary Daniels of the
Navy l)epartment, ordered additional
war vessels to Mexican waters on both
coasts to safeguard American lives.
At the War. Navy and State Depart.
ments, it was stated that no new ad
vices as to the situation in Mexico had
come to precipitate the new orders.
Within the last. two weeks, however,
tension has been increasing steadily.
The crisis presented by General Car
ranza's, note demanding the recall of
Generab-PelrhiU's expedi. onary fote
has been followed by a virtual ultima
tum served on the American officer by
General Trevino, the Mexican com
mander in Chluhahua. To this was
added the possibility that American
and Mexican troops had clashed across
the border from San Benito, Tex.
Officials Relieved.
Administration officials made no at
tempt to conceal their relief for the
Rafe return of Major Anderson's caval
ry squadron to Brownsville after itr
successful bandit chase. The troop
ers crossed in the face of intimations
that they would be attacked if they
did so. General Funston himself re
ported that he anticipated fighting,
presumably with Carranza troops.
Mobilization of the National Guards
men to support General Funston's line
will pave the way for releasing some
80,000 regulars for immediate service
In Mexico in the event of open hostili
ties with the Carranza government.
The guardsmen themselves could notl
be used beyond the line without au
thority of Congress and until they had
volunteered for that duty as they are
called out under the old militia law.
The new law, which would make them
available for any duty uinder the red
era government, goes into eff'ect,
July I.
55,000 Troops in Service.
The entire mobile regular army in
the United States, several Drovision
al regiments of regular coast artillery
serving as infantry, and the National
Guard of Texas, New Mexico and Ar
izona now are on the border or In
Mexico. Definite figures never have
been made public, but it is understood
General Funston has about 40,000 reg
ulars and probably 5,000 or more
guardsmen, of whom 10,000 regulars
are with General Pershing or scatter
ed along his line of communications
from Namiquipa, Mexico, to Colum
bus. N. M.
Telegrams to Governors ....
Telegrams calling for the militia
were sent to the governors of all
states except the three whose guards
men already have been mustered in,
after an all-day conference at the
War Department, attended by Secre
tary Baker, Major General Scott, chief
of staff; Major General Bliss, chief of
the mobile army, and Brigadier Gen
eral Mills, chief of the militia divis
ion general staff. Brigadier General
McCombs, president of the Army War
College, also were consulted. Since
Mr. Baker did not find it necessary
again to confer with President Wil
son after his visit to the White Houge,
it was apparent the decision to bring
out the militia was reached then.
At Least 85,000 Guards.
By tihe new orders there will be
placed at General Funston's disposal
two major generals and 21 brigadier
generals of militia, with their com
plete infantry commanas. The en
tire infantry divisions from New York
and lennsylyania are called out, as
are 15 full hrigades from other states.
In all. 8S regimnwents of infantry, with
13 separate battalions and many sop
arat e companit-s art affected, giling
a total of 1,14S (:coin panits, (ach of
which must have a mnininllnt strenglth
of 65 nin when mustered into tlhe
fedoral serivice. The lotal liti:: (
force of infan utry, therefore, will be
not less than S,,000 men.
Equipment Ample.
Less than 500 comipanies, scattered
trlroughout thil country, will not be
nll!stered, and thw National t;uturd
; c:;-t .\rtillt ry 'conpani, a ha' nott
iqn sumltn ned. All of ti,'' Ii,.ld ar
irl' s will be (employ(d, a:' will 11am.
iti , to ce.
'IT' t i ll a tI litd: 7to ls l a dt'is of
t.hli i a ill-rty, i'. tIr t.i,s of iavalry
anid on Ne "w \ oIr., 'al:irly l!ai('chinll
11_`11:1 ! roupj , "J5 ek gitL t:eo 'I l'('(lnl; ult 's mid (t
' i9 ignal 2 t1 ' lniiiii ,t' all with full
!,equpiif ellI alre:dly issued to flb In.
Twit ! .-Yi\ allli'lanci cor panits and
27 lield hsljitails also have boten or
ldered made ready for en'raining.
No indicatioln was given at the
State i)(p tmll'nilt w\ith reºtarLd to the
r1ly to atGnraal Carranzas note de
rmanding the withdrawai of the
1 American troops now in Mexico. It
; was' prepared last week by Secretary
Lansing, and is still in President
W ilson's bands. It was intended to
dislatcll it to Mexico City by speiial
mniessenger, but recent devolopimnts
may change this plan.
Hear From Carranza.
Official reports that recent raids
along the border had created alarm
among American residents in Mexico
City and elsewhere beyonld the border
were reflected in a message received
at the Mexican embassy from General
Carranza. It was stated that cx'ite
ment prevailed at the Mexican capi
tal over the ominous signs along the
border, and asked Elisco Arredondo,
ambassador designate, to tell the first
chief what he had learned of the in
tentions of the Washington govern
ment toward Mexico. Replying, Ar
redondo included a copy of Secretary
BUiker's statement innouncing thae
call for the militia.
Mexican Situation Worse.
When the officials here learned of
the message to the embassy, it was
construed as a further evidence that
the de facto government is struggling
with elements in Mexico with which
it has little control. For months the
economic situation which Carranza
has been attempting to solve without
foreign financial aid has been grow
ing steadily worse. Uneasiness has
been manifested in many parts of the
republic ,and agitators, whose pur
poses and affiliations are not clearly
known here, have seized the opportu
nity to stir the smoldering anti-Amer
ican feeling all through northern,
Mexico. The Washington govern
meat has watched with growing alarm
the spread of disorders throughout
Mexico and the evidence that Carran
za's control over his army and his
people is waning from day to day.
Up to the time General Thevino serv
ed notice on General Pershing last
week that any movement of his
troops except toward the border
would be treated as a hostile act,
there was no clear indication as to
Carranza's own attitude. His inten
tions still are in doubt, although the
fact that he is said to have personally
directed Trevino's action leaves little
ground for speculation on that score.
Policy Unchanged.
'The question remaining to be set
tied is whether General Carranza will
go to the limit of ordering an attack
on General Pershing's troops. There
is no indication that President Wilson
has any intention of altering his de
termination to keep the expedition
where it is. It is also evident, how
ever, that the administration has no
present purpose of ordering renewed
activities after bandits by the column,
except in the limited zone in which it
has been operating with signal suc
cess for some weeks. General Per
shing's recent reports have indicated
that he has succeeded in clearing out
all organized bands of outlaws in the
vicinity of his camps.
A Game of Bluff.
Sonime officials here have been in
clined to look upon the Carranza note
and many of his other more or less
hostile actions as attempts to placate
the radical anti-American elements in
Mexico, without actually bringing on
hositilities with the United States.
They declare the Mexican government
has gone to the limit each time, but
always fallen just short of tlhe word
or act that would have made a clash
certain. These officials believe Car
ranza is playing a gamne of bluff and
that much as he may hate V'illa, the
direct cause of the present situation,
he dare not attempt to capture the
bandit and turn him over to the
UnitedI Stat.s for punishment, because
he fears to make a national hero and
nlryi-r cf hiis form-r ally ag.ainst HIu
erin. In hit conntecrt:o n "' was lenr'-,
ed in diplomatic circles I hat foreigna
agents in Mexico believe Villa to
have been 5stricken with paralysis as
ga result of wounds received during or
after Ithi Columbus raid. lie is said
to be hiding in the hills, and the in
ti liaion that Carranza oflicials could
i put their hands on him in a few days
e if they so desired.
Congress to Take Hand.
The Mexican situation is certain to
I come up in Congress when the two
houses resume active business.
To defray expenses of mobilizing
t the National Guard and maintaining
it in t he federal service, enmergency
Il pproprittions will be needed immiedi
it('l.V. ('ongress grantel the War l)e
partinnt literal enmergency funds be
:lsei of the hbordeir situation some
t time ago. These are virtually gone
now, and Sticret ary Baker probably
will submitt a largiely increased esti
Srmiate within a few days. No official
w:ouldl hazard a guess as to the sum
t that might be needed.
Policy Is Unchanged.
, t;u t'td up, the situation as to Mex
ico wtas this;
i Presidelnt Wilson's policy is un
changed. although he has taken the
last possible step short of calling for
voltunteers to defend the border. Amer
ican troops are in Mexico for that pur
pose and for that purpose only. This
has been stated over and over again
by Mr. Wilson and now has been
altirmed by the Democratic platform
t upon which he will seek re-election.
The platform also states, however, that
the troops are to remain in Mexico un
til the defacto government uses Its
minlitary forces to police the border re.
gion so thoroughly that renewed ralds
5 ing is improbable.
1 The government has little faith fir
) the assurances of General Carranza
r that he is able to do this. Raiding has
I increased rather than diminished
l since additional Mexican troops were I
ordered into Chihuahua and other
northrn states. It has been madel
plain. officials said, that only American.
troops could be counted on to safe
t guard American Interests on the bor"
der.
No Intervention Plan.
Even with the call for militia, ha
ever. It was declared emphatlc?!1
hPre was nothing to indicate that"
tervention plans are being considered
Stress was laid in every official quar
ter on the fact that only defensive
measures were in progress and it was
reasserted that if hostilities between
the two governments are to follow
they will come only from acts of the
Mexican officials.
.oenator Sheppard of Texas received
a telegram from residents of San Be
nito and the lower Rio Grande valley
asking tha. the federal government
furnish them with arms and ammuni
tion for use in protecting themselves
antn their property. The request was
submitted to the War Department,
with a suggestion by the senator that
it be granted. Colonel Bullard, com
manding a force of American troops
near San Benito, is said to have ad
vised the citizens to take steps to pro
tect themselves.
Miss Emily and Her Store.
On the right side of the store, both
in the counter and on the shelves be
hind it, were the notions-spools,
needles, calico, garter elastic and a
hundred other things your mother was
always wanting; while on the left side
were kept marbles, paper soldiers,
lead soldiers, slingshot elastic, air
guns, bows and arrows, slates, whistles,
school pencils, compasses, paint-boxes
and a hundred other things you were
always wanting. Miss Emily sat
strategically at the rear of the store,
I and did not move till she knew for cer
c tain what it was you were after. Now
adays this would be called efficiency.
SIn those days our parents called it
.crankiness. When Miss Emily took
Syour pennies for an "aggle" or a "snap
per" or a big glass "popper," she did so
sternly, and she always examined them
closely as if she expected counter
feits. She never emiled sweetly on
you, and called you "sonny" or "little
-boy." She never smiled at all.-At
lantic.
Salt Mountains.
Several fills of rock salt exist in Al
geria. One of these, near Jelfa, is 300
feet high and nearly a mile across. In
spite of the soluble character of the
material of which it is composed, it
3stands up in high relief from the sur
rounding clay, without any signs of
erosion. There are in it, however, sink
holes, into which the torrential winter
rain soaks, being at once absorbed
and given out again at the base of the
mountain in the form of salt springs.
Imitation Gold.
By combining ninety-four parts of
copper and six parts of antimony and
adding a small quantity of magnesium
carbonate to increase the weight, a
substitute for gold is produced. This
alloy, it is said, can be drawn, worked
and soldered much the same as gold
and it also takes and retains a gold
I polish. It can be made for about 25
cents a pound when its constituents
- can be bought at normal prices.
LOUISIANA TABOOS
ALL PARTY PERFIDY
PROPOSED NEW PRIMARY BILL
WOULD DRAW LINES CLOSELY
-EXPULSION IS FATE.
SUBJECTED TO HEAVY FINE
House Committee on Elections Orders
Bill Favorably Reported-Violations
Will Be Misdemeanors and Voters
Must Stand By Colors.
Baton Rouge. -
A proposed new primary bill, which
would punish party perfidy as a mnis
demeanor and would provide for thel
ejection from a political party of a
participant in a primary who support
ed the candidate of a rival party, was
ordered favorably reported by the
House 'ommnmitItee on Elections of the
Lcuisiana Legislature. The measure
has been threshed out in the I)etroc
ractic caucus, after considerable op
position and contains features consid
ered novel in primary legislation.
The bill would require all parties to
hold primaries on the same date, but
with separate boxes and different sets
of officials. Every voter in a primary
would be required to sign a pledge
on the ballot to support all nominees
of his party. No voter in the prima
ries of any political party would be
permitted to be a candidate on the
ticket of an opposing party, and party
committees would be empowered to
purge their rolls of any member who
assisted any candidate other than his
own party.
Under provisions of the measure,
should the primary nominee of any
party support any candidate of an op
posing party, he could be ejected from
the party that nominated him and the
committee could select another can
didat4. n his place. Participants im
one party's primary also would be
prohibited from contributing funds or
otherwise assisting the candidate of a
rival party.
Such forms of "party perfidy" men
tioned would be considered under the
bill as misdemeanors, each punisha.
ble by a fine of from $50 to $500 or
by imprisonment from two to twelve
months.
BRIEF NEWS AND NOTES.
The $250,000 good road bonds were
sold to the Bank of Commerce, of
Mansfield, at a premium of $750, the'
purchasing bank to pay attorney's fees
and lithographing expenses, and to pay
two per cent on daily balances of
taxes collected for retirement of the
good roads bonds. The People's Bank
of this place and the Commercial Na
tional Bank of Shreveport joined with
the Bank of Commerce in making the
purchase.
C. O. Peltier, of Donaldsonvllle is
supervising the installation of a slx.
roller mill in Oscar Richards Golden
Gate sugar factory at Sunshine, Iber
Ville parish, to replace the three-roll
er equipment in use. The larger mill
was formerly a part of the equipment
of the Nottaway factory in Iberville
parish. Mr. Peltier will be chief en
gineer of the big Shadyside factory In
St. Mary parish the next grinding sea
0sot.
Holders of old Baton Rouge city
warrants that were peddled about the
streets three years ago for twenty-five
cents on the dollar, received payment
in cash for the face vaiue of their tar
rants. The first consignment of funds
for the city certificate of Indebtedness
arrived from Chicago and Mayor G. L.
Riling announced that the money was
in the bank to pay all old warrants.
That building operations in Shreve
port cdntinue brisk, is shown by the
mjonthly report of City Building rn
spector Strube McConnell for May.
This report shows that permits were
issued, representing activities at an
estimated cost of $124.277, over twice
as much as during the corresponding
month of 1915, when the buildings cost
only $61,677.
J.H. -Warner of Covington was
elected president of the St. Tammany
Parish Fair Association at a meeting
of the directors. C. E. Schonberg was
elected vice president, N. H. Fitzsim
mons, secretary and general manager.
and E. G. Davis, treasurer. October
i26, 27 and 28 were selected as dates
for the holding of the seventh annual
fair this fall.
Directors of the American Cities
Company at a meeting at New Orleans
declared a dividend of 1 1-2 per cent
on its $20,500,000 preferr d stock, from
earnings for the last six months. This
was just half the regnlair d'vidend.
WITH THE LEGISLATOUIS
Bills Signed By Governor.
Bills whirii haave passed both houses
antVl beenl ignled by tet govrn, frol. f
low:
Act No. 1-House Bill No 1. by .'Mi.
Byrnes--Appropriating $S6,00(t for the
L :xpenses of the General Assembly.
Act No. ' --House Hill No. 2S. by Mr.
Martn ---Gretna commission govern.
wene t caiir'tor.
Acr No. : -Senate Itiil No 14. by
?,Ir. I'earce, --Repealing A.t 151 of
l'114, whici prohibited ithie r:ovatl of
(acts under private signatlr lr ' fri t ;l'
ofal' of the( clerk of court, rec .rtrder
of Tmorlgages andlll conii V,';!a(es.
Act No. 4--I Hou.< il! No. 4. by Mr.
!vyrne- -('onstitutional oat!,rndlllen' a't
tlioriiing N,.\u Orl'eans to isuo $9.000,
000 of bonds.
:Act No. -5-House Bill No. 53, by
Mr. Ford - Authorizing police juries to
grant pipe line tranchisels.
l Act No. 6-Hlouse Bih No. 43. by
M~ r. ('ooper--Amending seotions 2, S.
4 and 9 of Act No. 207 of 1912, the
a .ommission form of government act,
so as to permit Alexandria to own her
S street railroad and retain her present
c thlree-conlmissioner form.
Act No. 7 -House BHi!l No. 60. by Mr.
c Foster-To confirm the sale and trans
for biy the police jury of Grant to the
)- town of (olfax of a tract known a,
- "the old jail ,ite."
o Senate Bills.
:t The Senate passed the Williams bill
5 providing for a state wide compulsory
Y dipping of cattle to eradicate Texas
e fever.
s The reciprocal insurance bill creat
1- ed something of a flurry in the Senate
e before It was defeated. At the com
e mittee hearing extracts from letters
were read in which memnbers of the
o Senate were criticised for their action
o when the bill was up two years ago.
s Leon Smith referred to this criticism
and said It prejudiced him against the
hbl.
ý- Without committing himself to a
n final policy, Governor Pleasant sug
e gested to Mayor Grouchy and Com
1- missioners Garig and Ricaud that Ba
n ton Rouge get definite figures on the
e cost of erecting a recelving staion
ir outside of the city limits, and that if
a such a station could be erected for
the purchase price of the penitentiary
1- grounds in Baton Rouge, that the
e state would be willing to sell.
1. The mayor and two commissioners
ir called upon the governor and took on
e with him the matter of carrying out
the terms of the Favrot act of 1914.
under which the state agreed to the
sale of the penitentiary property to
the city for $45,000. The governor
if called into the conference Edward J.
e Gay of the ways and means commit,
s tee, and T. C. Anderson, of the house
penitentiary committee.
Governor Pleasant is said to have
expressed himself as in hearty sym
k pathy with ihe desire of the city to
acquire the penitentiary property for
park purposes, but is reported to have
e pointed out to the committee that the
penitentiary system, with its present
enormous debt, did not have the funds
to make permanent improvements. He
suggested to the commissioner that
Sthey get together with the prison au
thorities, get exact figures on the cost
of a modern sanitary receiving ,e
Stion, and a small farm outside of the
city limits, and then submit the pro
position if the suggestion could no
worked out. without expense to the
n state, hlie would favor the exchange.
S Thirty-five of the thirty-six stu
dents who were dismissed from Louis
iana State University for hazing fhls
" spring are to be allowed to return to
e the university in the fall. 'The privi
e lege carries with it the right to take
Sthe final examinations of the spring
r term, which they have missed. The
sone exception to be made will be in
Sthe case of Ralph Blomely, of Broor
lya, N. Y., president of the junior class,
who led the alleged demonstration
against the authorities over the dis
missal of the original twelve hazers.
" President Bloyd flatly refuses to grant
e him mercy.
'- The Bank of Baton Rouge, bidding
e par with secured interest and a pre
Smlum of $5,626, was awarded the
S$125,000 bond Issue of school district
SNo, 9, comprising the city of B3Jton
t Rouge and some outlying territory to
Sthe south, over twenty-five competi
tors. The bank named itself as depos
s itory and offered to print the bonds
y free.
g .---
s During the month of May, real es
- tate valued at $108.673 changed hands
in Calcasieu parish. The largest deal
r recorded was for $9,600, and there
s were 113 transfers altogether. In Lake
(l Charles $59,000 worth of property was
transferred, the average consideration
being $1.210.
, The Many police jurors of ,Sabine
t parish have been in session dltring the
- last three days. It was voted to buyN
a courthouse to &ett $85,000, work to
begin Just as soo. as possible.
ORDER AMERICANS
TO LEAVE MEXICO
YUCATAN DECLARES A STATE OF
WAR EXISTS BETWEEN THE
TWO COUNTRIES.
CITIZENS CALLED TO ARMS
Many Arrericans Emploevc on Rail.
roads Nn-ar Guaym.s Are Taking
Fefuoe Etiher Aboard Crilscr
Cleveland or Supply Si-,p.
SAY WAR IS DECLARED. *
alvit. lin, 'T I'iw'  .xicau
gtive'rnlte lit in 'uca i;in ha;s t, "'
'a pIroclar iat en torlerii al' .'.i lIr
* ea I11 (uti of M e.\ico land dcili;.i:;O *
* it state ouf war e xist i l. i t'i; .\ eln '
the two countries, a '-orilin to0 *
* plasslengers arriving liere ont tile, '
Norwegian steranlier Nils from I'rIo- *
* greso. Anlic'ticans :anii other for- *
* eigners are being taken on board *
* an American gunboat at l'rogreso. *
(;1uay'n.as. Mex.-- ly HIadio to San
Diego. ('al.--According to reports.
Mexican authorities have orderetd all
able-bodied Americans taken prison.
ers and intend to disarm all foreigners
in the Yaqui valley.
Posters calling all Mexicans to
arms were displayed throughout the
city and also, it was reported, in the
interior.
Many Americans emiiploed on the
railroad in this vicinity are taking
refuge either aboard the cruiser
Cleveland or the supply ship Glacier.
which are now here.
Last Consul Withdrawn.
San Antonio.--The arrival at La
redo of Philip Ilanna. consul general
at Monter. y, developed the fact that
the State Depar.tment etrered both
him and J. R. Silliman, consul generat
at Saltillo, to the American side of
the river. Their withdrawal leaves
the American government with no
consular representatives at interror
points in Mexico. except an agent at
Mexico City.
Oil Investigation Ends.
Washington.-The Federal 'T'rade
Commission ended its investigation of
the rise of gasoline prices. Represen
tatives of Standard Oil and various rn
dependent companies gave widely dif
ferent explanations. A report of the
hearings and investigation by commis
sion's agents will be made public
soon.
Strikes Mine and Sinks.
London.-Striking a mine off Sand.
hanan Island of the archipelago at the
entrance to Stockholm, the Swedish
steamship Para sank. Tile crew was
saved. In shipping circles here it is
believed the vessel ran into a field of
German mines. The Para displaced
1,896 gross tons.
Machines to Pershing.
Coluinibus, N. M.----The aeroplanes
which hlave be en ihere' undergoing re
pairs will take the air hound for Gen
eral Pershing's base in Mexico, in re.
.ponse to repeated calls for nmachlines.
There are six other aeroplane's at ('o
lulnhbs also undergoing rep;lirs.
X-Ray on Roosevelt.
New 1ork. -Theodore Roosevelt un
edrwent an X-ray examination here
for what he characterized as
bly a slixht breaking of the mlU
around thlie rib which was b
when lie was thrown Rom a
May 24, 1915.
Dinosaur Is Unearthed.
Jensen. UItalh.-- Prof. Earl )oustas
of the Carnegie Museuml. Pittsburgh,
has unearthed here a perfect dinosaur
more than 135 feet long, said to be the
largest ever tound in the United
States. It will be shipped to Pitts
burgh.
Adopt Home Rule Plan.
London.--At a mneeting of the Na.
tlonalist party in liublln, the home
rule plan was adopted, according to
a dispatch from lI)ublin. The terms of
the settlement are raid to provide for
the exclusion of six Ulster coutini's.
Lightning Ignites Oil.
('levrelnerd, (Iklh. --Lightning whlch
set fire to five 55,00--harrel o4l tanks
belcngling to the G p.y Oil Company
near here. 'caused a loss estimated at
$500,000.
British Lose 130 Ships.
Iterlin.-The lu<to s of the British
navy durinug the war are placed 14
Oerman newspaper' at more than
G600,O0) tons.
