COU 1R
Volume XLVII
KEYTESVILLE, CHARITON COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JUNE 23, 1916
Number 21
CHARITON
XBR
COMMENCEMENT K.H.S.
Excellent Program Well Render
ed The Class Address Fine
Honors Awarded
. As a general thing, commence-
George Calleyhill Martin
At the family home in the city
of St. Louis Saturday June 17
George Martin gave up his hold
a M SW I 0
on life, naving sunereo irom
heart disease for several years.
George Calleyhill Martin, son
of John and Eliza Martin, was
born in Mead County, Ken-
mant exerc ses are of interest tucKy, uecemner zo, ioou unu
crinciDallv . and generally to with the family came to this city
those who have relatives on the when he was six years' of age,
nmm-otn Knt there WA ATI CX- the family first living at the
ception to this general rule at residence of Kimball Adams in
ho n.irt hmioo Thursday nicht the eastern suburbs which was
of laat week purchased before they left Ken
From the oDeninz march to tucky, and a few years after.
the benediction the numbers on moving to the old homestead now
the program were well rendered owned by W. E. Williams west
a raii raoniuod hv the mftrfl of town where George lived
' than crowded house.
Seldom has there been a sett
ing more beautiful for the pur
pose of lending charm to an. oc
casion than that arranged by
the young women of the gradu
ating class, assisted by young
men in and out of school. The
stage, if such it could be called,
was indeed a bower of beautiful
flowers so arranged that they
gave a most enchanting sur
rounding for the youth and
destined to walk forth tin.
into more rugged scenes from
the close of the exercises.
The oDenine march by Miss
Congressman W. W. Rucker Speaks
His Personal Ambition-Subordinated to Duty.
His Open Letter to Constituents, v
Relies on Service.
until his marriage to Miss Louan
Swain, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. George Swain.
There were four children born
to Mr. and Mrs. Geo. C. Martin,
George, Winnie and Joe Charley,
all of whom were with their
father at his death and burial,
and in addition surviving the
deceased are his sisters Mrs.
Bettie Lowry and Mrs. J. M.
Hawkins and brother Thomas J.
and his widow, Mrs. Louan Mar-
The family with a young
friend of the boys, James Hol
den, came Sunday from the city
and Charley Swain from War-
Maude Rucker indicated the rensDurg ro pay meir iasi, uuu-
high class program which was to ful respects to the deceased,
follow. After the invocation by Miss Minnie Lowry of Marceline,
Tt n RaM who has a stvle a niece also being present.
whiM, he suits to the occasion. Funeral services Sunday after-
Miss F.dith Tavlor's number, a noon were conducted by Rev.
ft nriao Hiaan. Mvers at the cemetery in me
- v - v.
' 4 v y -:yrr ? : h
f
CONGRESSMAl! W. W. RUCKER
- i
ninnn roIo. in
nointsd those who had encored presence of a large number of To Democratic Voters
Miiq Rucker's selection. The the old friends of the deceased I had hoped to return to the district and meet you personally
quartette, Misses Hulda Taylor, and the family in addition to before the primary but, with Congress in session, I cannot do so
Marv Thrash Donna Bverlv and the relatives mentioned. without neglect of duty. I have never faltered in the discharge
Emma Clifton Rucker, violin George Martin was a prince of 0f official duty and will not do so now even to advance or protect
numbers from ,Schuman and good fellows! in his young days, my" political welfare. Ipr.jemain at the po ptduty, sub:
Bvordk.' delighted the audience. Born of sturdy, old time aristo- mit my interests to your intelligent judgment and abide your de-
Miss Roberta ' Parks selection, cratic Btock; handsome and soci- ci8ion.
piano solo, LesMyrtes. Wachs, aDie ana popwr wiu.au, I am gratified to know that no charge has been made in volv-
astonished her friends as well as was a recognized leader in nis . officjal integrity or my devotion to the interests of my con
delighted them and the young set ano. iewsociai occasions were gtituentg Were m record 8ubject t0 in,peachment it is safe to
girl was recognized as a coming neia witnoui mm. conclude it would have been assailed. The attitude of those who
artist "19 marriage to a oaugnier oi me ig a splendid endorsement, as they virtually admit by
The number of the evening Mr. ana rars. ueorge pwain, one their argumentt that j have performed my duty so well and kept
was the valedictory, Miss Kath- among the most prominent fami- my officiai record 80 free from blame, that no one can successfully
erineSigloch rot disappointing "es m ui wuui, wa DU"" attack it
the PTnprtAtion that the address event, ror several years iney
,i Lit- i lived in the nrnnprtv vet owned
would a mingu sn u. ' ' lthwpst 0f short terms-two year terms. At the end of each term you had
ri3ZZtS;n7thedty and until an opportunity to retire me but. acting in harmony with the senti
woal have done credit to a about eight years ago when they ment prevailing in many distncts in the state and nation
finished writer. We will have made their home in St. Louis.
the nriviWeof nublishine the The Courier extends deep sym
.,n thn not hefnre Dathy to the survivors of one of
week, as it now arrears, its editors old friends and youth
but whenever we can give it to ful companions
we commend
My tenure of office is much discussed. It consists of a number
J Ji A. I
our readers, we commena u iu
their attention.
The vocal solo by Prof. Fred
Cowles was splendid and on a
par with his best efforts in song.
We have had class addresses
and again class addresses but it
ever, there have been few times
indeed when an address to the
graduating class at this city has
so pleased the class, teachers,
audience and sightseers. Rev.
Fred V. Loos will have a crowd
ed house every time he appears
here until he quits public speak
ing. Prof. Gibbany popularized
himself by Ais selection for the
address and Elder Loos estab
lished himself in the, estimation
the
most pleasing speakers it has p ,.
been ourgood fortune to listen
to. In some way Elder Loos'
remarks at certain points left
the impression that he was a
democrat, and if he was given a
fair opportunity, he could say
something along that line which
would be instructive to g. o. p.
or Moose. Yes, Elder ; Loos
captured the audience by his
masterly speech. '
1 The commencement was a
grand success and we unhesita-
and
you re
elected me. Each election was an expression of confidence and
approval. For every term given me I have rendered the district
which honored me. and my country, two years of faithful, loyal
service.
Although this same argument has been made in several cam
. .... 1. . 1 1 1 T 1
n.wns. ana everv voter in tne aisinci Knows now iuhk i nave
- - - w
been in office, my opponent has taken nearly two years to teach
vou that I have "served too long." This involves a criticism of
M. U. Corps Again Honored
It has been announced by the
United States War Department the mtt.iiigence or good judgment, or both, of those who have each
two years expressed confidence in me. Until it is shown that I
have been negligent or indifferent to my obligations I shall deny
this imnlied criticism. It is unfortunate for a candidate to have
to appeal for votes on a theory which reflects upon the good judg'
ment of those whose support he seeks,
With a deep and lasting sense of gratitude; promising loyal
and faithful service if re-nominated, I respectfully ask support
upon my record, assuring one and all that I will continue to so
the past year has been under conduct myself as to bring no discredit upon the district, or make
the direction of Lieut McH. a " asnamea oi naving gneu me ms cuimueui.c.
Khv . and Cadet Colonel H. R. Thankincr all friends in advance for anv assistance they may be
Gibson. Lieutenant Eby was pleased to give me, I beg to remain
that the Military School of the
University of Missouri at Colum
bia, is again one of the ten
distinguished institutions" of
the country. This is the third
time that Missouri has received
this distinction. The other two
times were in 1914 and 1915.
The military department for
called 'nto active service in Feb
ruary and Cadet Colonel Gibson
assumed supervision of the de-
The distinction the school has
obtained entitles the University
to name a second- lieutenant in
the United States Army. Presi
dent Hill will recommend A.
Worrel Roffe of Blue Springs,
Mo., who was graduated from
the School of Law this spring,
for this post. Mr. Kotfe was
major of the first batallion and
acted as colonel when Mr. Gib-
Very truly yours,
W. W. Rucker
Co. Poulty Association
The big show will be held in
Brunswick Nov. 29 to Dec. 2.
.The Chamber of Commerce of
that city has the thanks of the
Countv Association for its efforts
to secure the show and it en
couragement of poultry indus
try.
Salisbury 8 Booneville 5
The game at Salisbury was
of a higher order than usual
and since the home team was all
Salisbury, so much the better.
Salisbury has the material, why
send away for worse?
. rn i
.Anooonmed the ilntie. of mm. lrara'
j u that ground in corn, all of
For winning a "distinguished"
place three consecutive times,
A heavy rain all over the
Put
you.
If an early killing frost soft
corn beats no corn, but the pros
tingly congratulate each
every one connected with it oi department be pcnnitt- Pectisfor a late , fall Plant
bis and her excellent contnbu-Li u m d corn right along.: if not earlier
tion to an entertaining and in-lweire thAtiew mndei Snnmr. I than July 3. then turn out and
atructive program. ' field Army rifles - . come to Keytesville,
Will Hamilton of Keytwville
Brunswick was an important of
ficial Elk in Moberly this week.
Hogs are going up since the
re-nomination of Wilson and
wheat took a tumble after Hugh
es was named at Chicago but re
covered at the conclusion of the
Democratic Convention in St
Louia. -.
Salisbury Scribblings
John W. Cooper and wife, L.
H. Miles and wife and son, all
of Kansas City, spent the week
end with friends here.
Mrs C. W. Aldridge and son
Charles, in company with Miss
Rosa Lee Jennings left Friday
for an extended visit in Califor
nia. We wish them a pleasant
trip.
Dr. and Mrs. G. W. Hawkins
have returned from their visit
to Detroit and while gone took
in Niagara Falls and other points
of interest.
Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Sweeney
have returned from attending
both the big conventions and are
thoroughlv well posted on the
merit3 of both candidates.
Our city is becoming noted for
dogs and weeds, and both can be
readily spared. Will some one
take the lead in this needed
reform?
J. T. Windsor and wife have
returned from Muscogee Okla.
where they wintered and again
located on second street. They
liked Okla. but love old Chariton.
A fine rain fell here Tuesday,
which some say was needed but
others say we could have waited
a while longer.
Word has peen received f the
death of N. D. Walker at his
home in Webb City Mo. Mr,
Walker once lived here and was
well respected. We regret his
passing and tender conooience
to those left behind.
Preparations are being made
to oil our streets. The dust has
been bad nearly all spring when
the street were dry.
Word was secured here Wed
nesday of the death of Mrs.
Frank Lay at her home in Clifton
HilL She was formerly a resi
dent of this place and had many
friends.
The wedding of Miss Alice
Stewart to Mr. Henry Reiman of
Okla. is scheduled to take place
here today (Wednesday).
Miss Lora Osborn of Mission
South Dakota is here spending
her vacation. She is a fine teach
er in the Episcopal school there.
Locke Evaas and bride arrived j
from Colorado this week to visit
the formers parents.
Miss Katie Miller who has been
making her home with Mrs. Ar
thur Warner, on W. 4 th street
left this week for Baltimore Md.
on an extended visit.
Word comes from Wheeling
Mo. that Mrs. Nellie Weeks,
formely Miss Nellie Powell, and
who lived here until last year is
in a poor state of health with
something like Brights disease.
E. M. Williams and J. C.
Comer went to Mexico Wednes
day on business of important
nature.
Mrs. N. Huber has returned
from a visit to St. Louis.
W. C. Moredock and Wm. Gar
hart are seriously ill and remain
about the same.
Mrs. Roy Mc Kittrick who un
derwent an operation for appen
dicitis at St Louis is reported as
getting along nicely and a speedy
recoverp is hoped.
Fred Philpott of Cincinati was
here the first of the week visit
ing his mothers family.
Frank Burton of Kansas visit
ed friends here this week.
Revs. Baker and Pugh attend
ed the Sundy meeting the latter
part of the week.
State Guards Reinforce Regulars
Ultimatum to Carranza
Europe Concerned
What has been looked forward
to for a long time is about to take
place. Mexico has practially
defied us and President Wilson
has ordered thru the war depart
ment a hundred thousand State
guards to the border. Mobil
izing of soldiers about Mexico i3
under way. Warships are near
Mexican ports and a blockade is
imminent.. The allies in Eur
ope see a prospect for having
their supplies from thi3 Country
shut off, and they are greatly
alarmed.
The European War
Nothing doing at Vredun.
Russians have repeatedly re
pulsed Austrians. Germany has
sent a large army to join Austria
and the advance of Russia ha3
been checked in Poland.
Circuit Court
May adjourned term. June 19.
Matters passed at regular term.
J. H. and W. G. Smith vs.
Jno. Bills, J. B. Vassar and B.
S. Payne, Judgment for pfs.
$28.15.
O'Keefe Brs. Gro. Co. vs. N.
W, Ins. Co., motion for new trial
overruled. Former Judgment
Buford Kuhn sustained.
Inza Brown vs. Thos. Karcher.
Dismissed plffs. cost.
Bruce C. Newman vs. Martha
Newman pltff. divorced.
Lettie A. Cooper vs. William,
Cooper contd. --
Suits for tax continued and
dismissed.
New School Building
The patrons of the school at
Gillis Chapel voted unanimously
Tuesday to have a new building.
There were 14 for, 0 against and
$1000 will be spent in addition to
material in the old house.
Supt Schools Carlstead and
Chas Bondurant were boosters
at the election.
Local U. S. Marine
Herman F. Cooley son of Mrs."
Alice Latham, of this place, is
with the expeditionary force of
S. Marines recently rushed to
Santo Domingo for the protection
of the American Legation the
current revolt "against President
Jimines.
Young Cooley enlisted in the
United States Marine Corp3 at
its Seattle, wash., recruung.
station on December 18, 1913.
Dr. and Mrs. Sidener aud Miss
Ranson of Brookfield passed thro
town Wednesday in a car bound
for Moberly to be on hand for
the Elks meet
Ebel Lewis, juvenile Afro-
American will hereafter have no
doubt of the accuracy with which
Frank Drew, juvenile Caucasian
can curve a rock off his, Lewis'
noggin. Last Friday the boys
settled a - difficulty by an appeal
to arms and rocks with the re
sult that Lewis had a surgeon
plaster a wound in his forehead
as center as a measurement could
have placed it. Drew escaped
injury and officers.
A Chemical fire engine was in
town Tuesday, enroute to Car
rollton to demonstrate. It was
and is a beauty and we would
not have deplored an alarm of
fire to witness the demonstra
tion here but if the fire should
have been among some of the
disgraceful old shacks , which
refuse to blow down or burn or
disappear before a wave of pride
in our town, we would have been
glad had the engine failed to do
business.
Chas. L. Herring took in the
Elks meet at Moberly yesterday.
