fL @ KT w (( irgwmn nra>
hMSWP Lp-—n wggsm ifesaii
TWELFTH YEAH. No. I
WAR HOME TO us S.
-Brtreboys are they. Brave hoys are
they. . ...
„ .heir country s call.
morning a telephone
waß received from Okanogan
“!f:»or volunteers to till up the
21, Vernon company attached to
rvlt Regiment National Guards of
Ihlngton. that I,as been ( ' rtlltHl by
lltlonal government for service on
lfc ! Mexican border. The posting of
1 , ot lce calling for volunteers
“L, the martial spirit among the
1, men around town, and speedily
'Zmber of them assembled and di»-
Hithe situation. To their credit,
LTsaid that about every one of the
1 were anxious to respond, and for
fie it looked as though a full com
eould be raised in Oroville How
-1 (or various reasons in no manner
jigreditable to the would-be soldiers
I number that finally decided to en
ter the service was reduced to a squad
of ball a dozen. The names of the vol
uateers were telephoned to Okanogan,
adlroni that place telegraphed to die
adjutant general. The general suppo
tldon was that it would be several
dtp before the recruits would be call
ed to the colors, but Wednesday even
ill orders were received to leave Oro
(ilie Thursday morning for We-
Utchee. When the train pulled out
nsndsy morning only three of those
fbohad signified their willingness to
,0 were on hand. They were ,loe Hash,
jgry Buber and Lawrence Dallam. A
of friends were at the depot
tales the boys off, bid them good bye
lid 0«d speed.
The taking of even a small number
d young men from the community
Mkp war directly home to us, and
Mr departure leaves sad hearts
iMg relatives who will watch for
iota from the front with fear and
trembling. These boys may not see
active service, and God grant they may
alt, but the fact that they responded
to the call shows their willingness to
tWt their lives for the honor of the
(Mg It called upon In the line of duty
(stake that rlak.
Msg web young men going off in
to » tall for volunteers one
can realize to some extent what war
baa cost the European countries dur
lag the put two fearful years. The
fonng, and strong, and active are al
ways the first to respond to the call
(or troops- In Europe it was the young
men who felt the first shock of battle,
aid death has taken a terrible toll of
the very beat manhood of Germany.
Russia, France, England and the other
countriei that have contributed their
enoto to the slaughter. War is indeed'
hell, and If the suffering of that
mythical region is any worse than the
suffering of those who have sons and
loved ones at the front in time of war
then hell Is worse than it has ever
been depicted by the most eloquent be
liever in eternal punishment.
WILL TRY HAIRY Off.
Wednesday Messrs. Ellis and Forde
•dd to A. J- Taylor, late of Kodna,
Washington, U acres of land under
the ditch located on the east side of
the Okanogan river, a short distance
with of Oroville. The land purchased
b » choice tract, partly in alfalfa. Mr.
Taylor is a settler who comes here in
wnest in his intention to build a
home, and will devote his attention to
“IfTiitg. using Holstein cows. He
drove overland from Spokane county
accompanied by his wife, bringing his
household goods and some stock. He
understands the dairying business, has
• tract where he can carry on dairying
o the best advantage and is in easy
runch of either the creamery, or Cor
® ntntlon on the branch, from
»hence his cream can be shipped. We
o»e Mr. Taylor will succeed in his
*onture, because he is evidently a man
'“log to put forth his best efforts
.1- ythiD * he un dertakes, and when
®ft Is applied in any line of en-
T , or nuccess Is sure to follow. Mr
~ ® r * nnnmple should he an incen-
Nu»t°iy 0t * ,erß t0 e " BaKe * n same
IP ITS HERE, USE IT.
ilbi« B »‘ Br ° Wn ’ lhe ,nan who is reapon-
Sa Zj w , the existence of the local
Li. , . * s works, as it was through
know . rUmentality Ulal il became
n liters wiiere the capital
tut * Becure, i i° utilise the deiioalt,
Mr B ‘° Wnfor a few i lolirs last week,
kltd » WD * 8 at P r ««ent working some
q", 4 che “lcal deposit down in
tke rM C ° UDty ’ ' 8 we ” satisfied with
(jt- k 116 urges us to urge others
lit»B..^X aof t * le a,l| ni deposits exlst-
Mt ahs rov *" e ' as it can tie made to
tluj pay well. Mr. Brown claims
ofihinf? Lanl an l nex austilde quantity
be tp * B ne *Bhl>orliood that can
CvSd at a minimum cost and
»e Paylng industry. Personally
but it I. “ othln K about this deposit,
etitrv , eX Bts it would not seem nec
m»v. , K urge those on the inside to
* “*• be “t of a good thing
SOME WATER.
I Hiring the past week the valley has
hail a narrow escape from a real flood
One that for a lime promised to equal
ii not surpass the big water of ism
so frequently quoted by the ancient In
habitant, and which stands as an epoch
in the history of this upper country
for be It understood that when die’
Columbia made the 1894 record swell,
all tributary streams were swollen us
they were never known to be swollen
by the oldest white settler. About the
only thing that prevented a repetition
of the ’94 experience this year was the
timely interposition of Providence, the
clerk of the weather turning on the
cold tap following an Intensely torrid
period, during which the Slmllkameen
boomed upwards by leaps and bounds.
Starting In last wek as though its
object was to cook humanity the sun
gave the valley a fair imitation of the
hereafter, and the mercury in (her
moters shot upwards to the neighbor
hood of 100, where It roosted day after
day. The heavy snow In the mountains
faded away under the heal like a slice
of waterme'on before 4he attack of a
well developed darkey. Since the
month of May there had been a stage
of water in the Slmllkameen above
normal, and the additional fluid pre
cipitated from the dissolving snow sup
ply in the mountains sent the stream
up flying. Steadily the water climbed
over a foot per day until at the power
plant the river registered 18 feet above
normal, and that is some water when
you come to think about it The river
spread out over the low lands along
the valley, in places forming great
lakes, and backed up the Okanogan in
to Osoyoos lake. The power plant was
invaded, and a weak and halting ser
vice periodically was all that could be
supplied for a time.. It looked as
though the plant would be put out of
commission for some days. Indeed, an
other foot to the flood would have
turned the trick. Fortunately a marked
change in the weather took place Sun
day and by Monday the mercury had
dropped to 60 degrees. Rain fell In the
valley and snow in the mountains,
thus cutting off the source of supply
that was doing things to the river.
Since that time the weather has con
tinued cool, and there is no further
danger of high water this season.
So far as the flood is concerned it
was a mild affair of a moist nature.
The river has freequently been much
higher- True a great many acres of the
lower lands were covered, but no ma
terial damage will result from the
ducking. To see the Similkameen bowl
ing along bank full conveyed the im
pression of a flood, but as a flood It
was tame very tame, indeed.
THE FOURTH AT LOOMIS.
The 4th of July celebration at Ixio
niis this year is going to be one of
those old fashioned affairs common in
this upper country in early days, in
which hores racing cut the principal
figure. Still in this instance the list of
sports is not going to be confined to
exhibitions of sped by horses- There
are going to be a number of athletic
contests, and features that will amuse
and entertain. The old camp will he
alive with a big crowd and those hav
ing the celebration in hand will see
that the crowd has a good time. The
adddress by Father Sherman in Itself
will be worth going a long distance to
hear. Oroville should send a big dele
gation to Loomis on the 4th, which,
by the way, is due to arrive a week
from next Tuesday.
BUILD A NEW (»E.
The business men of the town should
Join hands and build a new bath house
for women at the swimming hole. The
one now in use is both dangerous and
a disgrace. The building used for men
is in good condition. The one that the
women have to put up with is almost
falling to pieces, while the planking
on the walks is broken. A few dollars
could not he spent to a betler advan
tage than in putting up a new bath
house and painting it when it is up.
Probably the only way the work can
be done is by popular subscription, and
as a starter this office will contribue
$5 towards the necessary improve
ment. The swimming hole is too big
an asset to the town to be permitted
to go unused.
A man traveling in an auto between
Penticton and Oroville may know with
Ills eyes shut when lie strikes the
United States from the change in the
conditions of the roads. A road buildei
on this side of the line ought to have
as much savvy about building roads
as the man who lives on the olhm
side of the line, yet if he has. he d*n
not exercise it. It would pay the coun
ty commissioners to send a quad of
road builders over into Canada and l"t
them take a few lessons from the road
builders of the dominion. Certainly wc
are taxed enough, and pay mouc\
enough out for roads to have someth
ing to show for the touch and expense
OROVILLE. WASHIN (TON. JUNK 23. 1916.
Little Miss Ada Truax, the young |ady of tender years who
performed the ceremony of dedicating the West Okanogan
Valley Irrigation system on the day of the celebration, June 7.
SO MEM HAT DISAITOIVITNG.
The Bostonians played to a good
house Monday night, larger even than
could have been expected considering
the unfavorable weather and the fact
that the troupe arrived on a belated
train so the curtain did not rise until
after 9 o'clock. The company is said
to he the same organization that per
formed in Sigrist hall several years
ago, of course more mature, revamped,
bul not improved to a noticablc degree.
The pull here rested on the reputation
of the company, bul most of the audi
ence was considerably disappointed. It
was a clean show, the girls were nice
looking and sprightly, the stage work
was acceptable, but unfortunately the
performers must have left their voices
at some way station enroute. The mus
ical comedy "Tipperary Mary” has op
portunities for some rollicking music,
but on tliis occasion it was considera
bly shy of melody. However, the per
formers gave the audience the best
they had at command, and as there was
much applause in spots the bulk of
the crowd evidently considered that
they received their money’s worth.
ITWV FIiUHIH'H.
Whenever there is a flood or fire of
magnitude, or a disaster of any kind
the liar flourishes. Perhaps that is a
severe way of putting it. Anyhow, peo
ple let their imaginations have full
sway, and some of them indulge in
fairy stories that in comparison the
hall of horrors is a pleasant promen
ade. There were samples of this pro
pensity to indulge in the gruesome
during the minilure flood caused by
the high water in the Simllkameen
river. It kept the editor skipping about
at a lively rate chasing down rumors
of wholesale drownings, some of them
of a nature to make one s hair fairly
bristle. The first artist who set adrift
a harrowing tale had a woman and a
babe drowned at some indefinite place
ou the Simllkameen, near town, of
course, but the next individual who
took up the tale ot woe, went the otig-
Inal rumor starter several better,
stamping himself a past master in the
art ot fiction. He spread the report
that live drowned women, three chil
dren and one baby had been take from
the Similkameen. Why lie did not make
it an even hundred passes all under
standing. To give the story some plans
ahility he claimed that he had assisted
in removing four of the bodies, but
whv he gave out til the fourth he did
not explain. At first the scene of this
holocaust was fixed at the Sun ika
mcen bridge in older to give it loca
color, hut was subsequently removed
to Touasket. Of course there was noth
ing in it. but the stories go to show
bow sensationalism flourishes when
ever there is a shadow of excuse to in
dulge lu sensations.
A WEAKNESS TO HE CORRECTED.
The average individual has no re
gard for public property and that is
tlie reason that public property Is so
wastefuily used and abused in this
country. Just as a slight illustration,
take our graded streets. Driving autos
over them at a high rate of speed
grinds them to pieces, and the thought
less and indifferent auto drivers take
a special delight in speeding on Cen
tral avenue. It lias been suggested
that the town authorities levy a
special tax on auto owners, the re
ceipts to be used in keeping the graded
streets repaired. This may change
their way in regard to driving. The
car owner is consciousless, and no ap
peal to his common sense has any ef
fect. His conscience may be dull but
when you touch his pocket nerve he
squirms as though touched upon the
raw. Fines of heavy calibre might
work a reformation, but fines cannot
reach the more guilty while a general
lax might cease when drivers came to
their senses and used some judgment
in regulating speed on the streets.
Oscar I, actinium! of the B. C. Copper
company, spent Sunday in Oroville,
and while here visited the claims that
10. McCamnion is opening up on Kru
ger mountain. He expressed surprise
at tlie extent of ore in sight and from
casual examination thought the prop
erty of considerable merit. It the re
turns on tlie proposed shipment of ore
are what is expected then Mr. McCnm
mon has a mine that will command
great value.
Members of the A. Guthrie & Co.,
contracting outfit as well as represen
tatives of tlie irrigation district kept
close and constant watch and ward
over the big siphon crossing the Sim
ilknmeen river during the prcvalance
of high water. The water reached dan
gerously near tlie pipe line, and had
tlie heavy drift wood came down the
stream as it has litcred the river up
on former occasions of extreme high
water the entire force could not have
prevented the siphon from going out.
High water like unto that of ’94 would
snatch that siphon galley west.
Some inconvenience was experienced
while the rivers were at the high wa
ter mark by the cutting off of the
electric power and Mghts at times.
However, considering what the force
in charge of the plant had to contend
against the boys deserve much credit
for sticking on the Job and preventing
a shut down for a long period. No such
i rouble will ever again be experienced
for the new owners will make such
necessary improvements that no mat
ter how high the water gets in the fu
ture the water will not interfere with
the steady running of the machinery.
AN ATTRACTIVE INDUSTRY.
There Is one line of endeavor adapt
ed to this valley under the new and
extensive system of irrigation, so far
very much neglected, that can be made
a source of profit to every Individual
who is willing to embrace It and apply
his best energies to the work. That Is,
dairying. Dairying is an industry that
you do not have to wait on until next
year, or the year after, or several
years in the future for returns. There
Is no danger of overstocking the mar
ket, overproduction so far has never
been known, for a ready and eager
market Is always open fur those who
have the cream to sell. A tew good cows
can be made the source of a never fail
ing Income. It Is a commodity that is
not disposed of on promises to pay. It
commands bard cash. Nor is it a com
modity that one is compelled to sell
through agencies, or other combina
tions of producers made necesary for
self protection. It does not have to be
shipped long distances and the shipper
is not dependent upon the honesty of
commission merchants, or the condi
tion of the market at the selling end
as to supply and demaud. You do not
have to wait an indefinite period for re
turns, receiving your money In drib
lets and often not at all. There 1s no
shrinkage In measurement or weight,
nor loss through deterioration. Every
day your source of supply is immediate
ly at hand and when that source of sup
ply is properly cared for there is no
dlmlnuatlon in the supply. You deliver
the product at the nearest point on the
railroad, which will be close at hand
anywhere in the valley, or directly to
the Oroville creamery and every 30
days you receive a pay check as regu
larly as the passage of time. No one
claims that there are millions in the
dairying Industry, but thousands of
prosperous dairymen in this country
goes to prove that there Is money in It.
We say prosperous dairymen advised
ly because in those localities where
dairying is made a special business,
there is to be found the most comfort
able homes and surroundings and the
most contented people. Under the West
Okanogan Valley Irrigation system the
ccnditlona are Ideal for dairying, be
cause forage crops can be raised in
abundance, solving the problem of the
right kind of feed, pure water and a
railroad almost at the very door of any
ranch, large or small, in the valley.
DREDGE WRECKED.
Some two years ago a Seattle com
pany was formed to dredge the Simli
kameen river, at Rich Bar, for placer
gold. The incentive for the Investment
and venture was the old story of the
gold rush to that locality in the early
’sos, when 5,000 eager, wild, woolly,
milling prospectors lined the shores
of the river, and according to tradi
tions extracted half a million dollars
from the sand and gravel in a very
short period, supplemented by the ease
in which colors can be washed from
the sands unto the present day. While
there was no mystery about the enter
prise, as the work performed was ex
tensive and in the open day, yet those
in charge were close mouthed and lit
tle information could be obtained as
to the prospects and intentions, how
tar operations were going to be carried
on, or the results obtained. From all
outward and visible means of evi
dence the company invested consider
able money In preliminary prepara
tions, but for the fact that work has
been suspended for a year the natural
inference to be drawn is that the re
turns did not Justify continuing work.
What the company did was to build
a large stern wheel dredge, equipped
with powerful pumps and a system of
sluices to catch the anticipated gold
from the sand and gravel to be sucked
from the bottom of the river. The plan
met the requirements of gold hunting
in the Slmilkameen, provided suffi
cient gold existed on the river bottom
to pay for operating. But as stated
above, the dredge has been swinging
idle in, the river for a year. It was
moored in the lea of a big rock out in
the river until last Saturday. On that
day the high water tore the craft loose
and it started gaily to the sea via the
Similkameen, Okanogan and Columbia.
At the upper and smaller falls above
the power plant the boat was submar
ined by a Jagged rock and sunk. The
dredge is a total loss, but the machin
ery can be saved, probably, at low wa
ter. Had the big, heavy craft gone over
the falls it would have torn out both
he siphon and the Similkameen bridge.
R. P. Hoffmark of Portland, who had
charge of the construction of the irri
gation system for A. Guthrie & Co.,
up to within a few weeks of comple
tion, was in town this week looking
over the work. Mr. Hoffmark was pro
moted to a more responsible and re
munerative position with the big con
tracting Arm and scatters himself out
from Portland to supervise the many
contracts the firm has under way.
RUNNING UP STREAM.
It was rulber odd during the past
week to see the water in the Okanogan
river flowing up stream. That perverse
action of the contents of the Okanogan
was caused by the excessive volume
of water in the Simllkatneen river.
The Siniilkameen rises higher than the
Okanogan, consequently the water of
the swift mountain stream backs Into
and encroaches upon the preserves of
tlie milder Okanogan. The Siniilkameen
from chewing out its banks in its wild
rush to level ground, takes on the
hue of rich, mellow mud and the yellow
stream flowing into Osoyoos lake by
Ibe Okanogan route tints the beautiful
azure of the lake a dirty smudge. This
encrachment of the lesser stream up
on the greater does not happen often,
hence it is a curious sight when it
does occur, and always draws an aud
ience, for many have been on tbe river
and lake since high water to see the
mingling of the brown and blue drinks.
SOMEWHAT OF AN ANCIENT.
Lee Ives the original settler on the
stun of laud at the mouth of the Me
thow river now covered by the town of
Pateros, was in town during the past
week, coining up the Okanogan river
in Ida 30 foot motor boat. It ia safe
classing Mr, Ives as a pioneer as he
passed up the Okanogan valley 37
years ago on his way to the Carrabo
mines. This somewhat antedates the
arrival of some of us older fish,
pluming ourselves upon being old set
tlers because we drifted into the ter
ritory 34 years ago. This climate al
most makes one believe In the tradi
tion of the spring of perpetual youth
after seeing Mr. Ives who lias absorb
ed Okanogan climate for so many
years and still has the appearance of
a young man.
CATTLE RUSTLING
Sheriff Stark was in town Wednes
day while trying to spy out the trail of
cattle rustlers who had stolen eight
head of fat three-year old steers from
Ed. Howell, living on Tunk creek. Up
to the present date no word hud been
received that the guilty maruders bad
been apprehended. This stealing of so
many head of cattle at a single swoop
savors of the days when almost count
less herds roamed the Okanogan hills,
but it was generally supposed that on
account of the Increased population
wholesale cattle rustling was an im
possible stunt in this day and age. Ev
ery resource of the sheriff’s office
should bo employed to overhaul the
niaranders for that kind of work
shoul not be encouraged by even a sin
gle success.
AFTER COPPER.
Jerome Drumheller, of Spokane,
stopped over in Oroville Wednesday
night on his way to Princeton, near
which place he will examine a copper
property. Mr. Drumheller has been in
terested in the Copper World mine,
near Loomis, for a number of years, a
property that has the ear marks of
merit. In the course of time Mr. Drum
heller may be able to open up the
ledge on that holding, and those famil
iar with it believe that the Copper
World under development will make a
real mine- It was a great pleasure to
meet Mr. Drumheller, for, though a
man now of middle age. when we first
knew him he was chasing the streets
of Spokane Falls in knee trousers, and
that was some time ago.
COUNCIL MEETING.
Minutes of the regular meeting of
the town council of Oroville. Washing
ton, June 19, 1916.
Present Counciimen Heale, Frits,
Smith and Starrett.
Motion made and carried that Coun
ciimen Smith act as mayor. Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved as
read. The clerk reported that he had
notified the parties having the south
end of Fourth street to remove the
fence and that they hand agreed to
remove the same as soon as possible.
On motion council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSK, Clerk.
The residue of the engineering crew
that has guarded the interests of the
Irrigation district during the construc
tion of the irrigation system packed up
this week and in a few days will scatter
to their several homes, leaving a void
and vacancy in the population. The
worst luck the Gazette wishes them is
to fall into another good Job immedi
ately.
Tlie boys who left here Thursday
morning to Join the National Guards
will be joined by others at Okanogan
and Wenatchee, going from there to
American Lake, near Tacoma, where
the First regiment has instructions to
mobolize. The lads realized the seri
ousness of the step, and do not expect
to find a soldier's life ail joy and glad
ness.
91.50 PER YEAR
