Volume 27, Number 7
LACLEDE, MISSOURI, EKIDAY, JUNE .23,
$1.00 Per Year in Advance
TOWN AND COUNTRY ?rS, ON LOCAL SUBJECTS
the residence of Mayor and Mrs. J
About Local People and Events and
Other Matters of Interest
High test, best price if you sell
your cream to Longacre.
A Reliable oil range with oven
for sale by Mrs. A. V. Moore.
List your property for sale or
exchange with the Tracy Realty Co.
Twenty-five acres of first crop
clover for sale by the acre. E. B.
Allen.
Sell jour cream to Longacre for
cash. First door south of post
office. Prof, and Mrs. 6. W. Beswick
of Jefferson City spent last Satur
day here visiting the latter's sister,
Mrs. J. H. Brown and family.
Make arrangements now to at
tend the Meadville chantauqua
August 19-27, by buying your
season ticket this month for $1.50.
Cashier and Mrs. H. W. Lomax
attended the Brown-Lomax wed
ding at Princeton last Saturday
and remained over Sunday with
relatives.
Don't fail to attend the demon
stration of scientific canning at the
city hall next Tuesday. All ladies
C Lomax Saturday evening at , nJ . g. f
miqo TToior, ' ..n... . ivr-l News of All Sorts
ULtjt3 J-aiVU, TV l0 HI Gt 1 1 ICU VJ i,UI
John C. Brown of Laclede, Mo
A number of guests were there to The Laclede bakery will be moved
witness it. to the Benson biiildinff next Satrr-
Mrs. Dora Newhart played the day and the retail business discon
wedding march, "and m step with tinued. The pastries will be on
the music, the couple came down sale at Carothers Allen's daily
the stairway into the nail. Facing and the bread will be on sale at
the guests in the parlor, they stood (the usual places.
ueiore a Dan oi oeauiuui rerns The Brown Automobile Co. has
and roses while the Rev. A. S. a new advertisement in The Bladk
Watson of the Methodist church today announcing the appearance
said tne words which made them 0f the 1917 model Saxon Six.
mau uuu wue. x ue ring ceremony Tn,s new model wn,ch ig creatiDg
was used. lhe bride wore a a sensation wherever shown, will
beautiful gown of georgette crepe s00n be demonstrated in Laclede
and the groom wore a black travel- amJ wiu no donbt attraet unusnai
suit. After congratulations, a fine attention
wedding supper was served, then
Mr. Brown and his bride left for
the railway station where they
boarded the evening train for Kan
sas City. They were followed to
the station by a jolly crowd of
friends.
Mr. Brown is a son of Mr. and
Mrs. S. M. Brown, prominent
residents of Laclede, Mo.. He is a
traveling salesman for the George
ri i r - yu
ivi. iiRTKP ijomnanv or i n pnpn
Ulcttuu viuiAiitjr aic luvii-cuimu h ... - f prinf..afnn'S
t0ere!fn ' ... most accomplished young ladies
x . xi. r ower on luesaay sum a
Case tractor to Peter Smith to be
she graduated in yoice
Brush Conservatory of music last
year. She "is a very talented
vocalist.
Mr. and Mrs. Brown received
many elegant wedding
Princeton Post.
young
and is prominent in social circles
After comnletino' her sp.hnnl work
shipped from Kansas City to Mead ghe went to Chicag0f wh()re
county, Kansas, to oe usea on ir .he daated in ice at the
omitns iuu acre iarm at mat
place.
The L. T. L's will hold their
regular meeting at the home of
JVliss Frances Villard next Wed
nesday, June 28. Leader, Miss
Gertrude Boesiger. All are cor
dially invited.
Hon. Alfred Pettit, candidate
for the republican nomination for
state treasurer, was in Laclede last
Friday. His home is at Knox City,
in the northeast part of the state
where he is engaged in banking.
The Power Garage sold two
used Ford cars last Saturday and
delivered them in Kansas City
W. R. Barton has bought the C.
M. Burnett residence in the south
east part .of town at $3,000. This
is a very desirable piece of property
and will make Mr. and Mrs. Bar
ton a fine home and again perma
nent citizens of the town, which is
pleasing to their many friends.
They expect to get possession next
week.
A big crowd was" out to the Fat
Lean ball game Wednesday, the
receipts amounting to $42.00, the
entire amount going into the street.
oiling fund. The Leans came out
victorious, the score being 35 to
17. Dr. Bonds pitched the entire
game for the winning team while
a half dozen Fats were successive
ly knocked out of the box.
The first car of oil has arrived
gifts. and the work ef putting it on the
streets was begun Thursday morn-
D. A.vR.'s Coming to Laclede
Hannah Hull chapter of Brook
field will have some exercises at
the Laclede cemetery next Sunday
afternoon at 3:00 in memory
Sergeant Thos. Watson who died on
the farm now owned by C
PERSONAL PARAGRAPHS
E
in
iroosey near the old water mill
He was buried on the farm
1841, the exact location of the
grave being obliterated some years
ago. lhe chaDter is location a
- o
marker on a substitute grave on
the lot of Judge Libby in the La
clede cemetery in memory of Ser
geant Watson, he being the only
Revolutionary soldier buried in the
county known to the chapter. Mrs
v. a. ijiooy is a member of
Hannah Hull chapter. All mem
bers of the D. A. R. and descend
ants of this soldier and the public
generally are invited to be present.
Among the descendants of this
Revolutionary soldier, who reside
n Linn county, are the following
Great grandsons, Jonathan Hen
dncks, Isaac Watson, John E.
ankey, Brpokfield; Alex B
Carter, Napoleon B. Carter, Pres
ton Carter, Bueklin; C. C. Bigger.
Oscar Y. Watson, Laclede; G. E.
Singleton, John L. Singleton,
Linneus. Of the great grand
daughters living there are, Mes-
dames Alfred Dickinson, Brook
field; Robert Anderson, Allen
Brownlee, Bueklin; O. F. Libby,
II. C. Lomax, Charles Facto, La
clede; M. G. Coates, Charles
Warren, Meadyille; Miss Ellen
Watson, Laclede.
The bride is a granddaughter of ,ng:' lhft rains have delaved the
I i i ,
H. C. Lomax and is well known jading ana preparations some but
and popular here where she has the main streets are in fairlv ood
i j 1.1. i i
vsted on numerous occasions. uuiuon ana me wor is oeing
Mr. Brown is known to everybody Pushed fls rapidly as possible in
here as an industrious, capable Pther Parts of the district -to be inedical
vonns-man. with finp soma and "c"reu" " ttu uulJ VUD 8UU "
business nualificationa. hmn? finan- mU take at OSt two days to un-
cially interested here as owner of load the car of 7000 gallons.
i
the Brown hotel property. After Last Tuesday was Master Cor-
Brief Mention of Those Who Come
and Go During the Week
market
Longacre will pay you
price for your cream.
Mrs. Jas. Poison is here from
Illinois visiting her son John and
family.
Mrs. Geo. C. Denbo and daugh
ter, Miss Frances, spent Wednes
day in Kansas City.
Mrs. Amanda dishing of Brook-
field visited her son John T. and
wife here this week.
Miss Minnie Trippeer was down
from Linneus for a short visit with
relatives last Saturday.
Get your Meadville ehautauqua
ticket this month and save 50
cents on a season ticket.
Mrs. J. H. Armbruster and
children of Aurora, 111., are visit-
ng her mother, Mrs. May Jones
and other relatives.
Mrs. Zeigler of Laredo visited
her daughter, Mrs. J. T. Cushing
and Mr. Cushing here and left for
Chicago. last Sunday evening.
Mr. and Mrs. Willis Stoddard
and the latter's father, F. G. Can-
field, returned Wednesday from a
visit" with relatives at Meadville.
D. W. Jamison of Hamilton and
N. W. Dowell of Kirksville spent
ast Friday here with E. D.
Jamison at the Laclede bakery.
John Peer who came to attend
the funeral of his little nephew.
aul Wade last Monday, returned
to his home in St. Joseph Wednes
day.
Mrs. M. E. Tufts, after spend-
Monday morning. F. .R. Power a stay at Excelsicr Springs and helius Benson's sixth birthday and
drove one car through and Wade
Patrick the other, Roy Parker and
Roscoe Rankin going along as
ballast.
Laclede has a new firm this week
the Tracy Realty Co. This
company will buy and sell farms
Kansas City, Mr. and Mrs. Brown in honor of the occasion his par
will spend a few days with relatives ents, Mr. and Mrs. M. P. Benson,
and friends in Laclede and then go gave a dinner to a number of the Interment was made in the Laclede
north for the remainder of the family relatives. Those from out cemetery. The bereaved parents
Lost Their Little Son
Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Wade have
the sympathy of the entire com
munity over the death of their
ittle son, Paul, aged 8 years,
which occurred at the family home
north of town last Saturday, June Mng the winter at the home of Mr
17. He had been suffering from and Mrs. Byron Lamme on route
throat and lung trouble for some two, left Saturday for a stay with
time and while all that money and relatives at Sturgeon
science coma ao was done Mr. and Mrs. Clark Andrews of
the disease could not be checked. San Antonio, Texas, arrived Wed-
tle was a bright and most lovable nesday to visit relatives here.
I 1 1 I . 1 a a. I
ooy ana ms death was a heavy blow guests of O. Y. Watson and sister.
to all the family relatives. Funeral Miss Ellen, on route one
sciviucs weic ijeiu uii tue nome t- !u xt...
iu.i. aim iuis. j? i-euenoK. J.ey oi
ftiuuunj aiiernoon oeing conaucted Lake Arthu, Louisiflnfl. hflveenm
i T . T-k ill n ft I '
oy xtev. ituueage or linneus. ft mir itv tn maua
summer.
He Reads the Advertising
City Marshal F. R. Power is not
and city property and stocks of only a firm believer , that it pays to
merchandise, doing a general real
estate business. They have taken
desk room in the telephone office,
C. E. Tracy being secretary and
manager of the company.
Chapter R, P. E. O. cordially
invites the ladies of Laclede and
vicinity who are interested in the
canning of fruits and vegetables to
meet with them at the city ball
next Tuesday, June 27, when Mr.
advertise in The Blade but it pays
to read all the advertisements in
the paper each week. Monday he
received a card from the Chillicothe
chief of police offering a reward
for a mare that had strayed from a
farmer living four miles north o
unuiicotne. jar. rower remem
bered reading an advertisement in
The Blade that Geo. Farrar had a
stray mare at his place and on in-
Geo. W. Reavis, of agricultural J vestigation found it was the very
department of the state university I animal he was looking for. He
at Columbia, will give a demon- notified the owner and he arrived
stration of scientific canning. No I here on No. 4. paid Mr. Power the
admission charge and all will be $10.00 reward, paid Mr. Farrar for
welcome, keeping the mare and for his
Henry M. Anderson was de-(trouble and paid for the adver
lightfnlly surprised on Thursday tising in The Blade and departed
of last week in honor of his forty- for home well satified.
second birthday by a few of his
friends and some members of the
Yeomen lodere oi which He is a
For Sale
One Jersey cow, one red cow,
member. The snrprisers assembled both eivi,nf ,milk' and aboat 0De
. - i rnn riT no an nav
f 1,: Ynm nt. h-SlI nnrt at ; 1
o'clock a delicious snpper was
served that was enjoyed by all. J The Forker baseball team will
The evening was most pleasantly! give an ice cream social at the
spent and the guests departed I rorker meeting bouse on Tbnrs
W. 8. Savage.
of town were Capt. and Mrs. A. wish to thank the Royal Neighbors
L. Loomis. daughter and son. Miss and friends for the floral nflfprinaa
Ruth and Ed. and E. Sidebottom,
wife and two daughters all of
Meadville; J. Sidebottom, wife and ;
daughter of Colorado, and Mrs. J.
W. Hardy and two children of
Sumner.
and the kind assistance rendered.
city to make their home
with Rev. and Mrs. H. J. Dueker.
Mrs. Dueker is a daughter of the
aged couple.
Miss Emma Gould and her
mother have returned from spend
ing the winter with relatives in
Michigan and will again make
their home here. For the present
Mr. and Mrs. N. A.
miles south of Chillicothe. With
the exceptions of a few short
bumpy places the Laclede-Chilfi-
...
cothe road is in good condition,
the Livingston county end being
in extra fine shape.
night
convention at Moberly, being a
delegate from the Brookfield lodge.
Mrs. Flora Arrighi of Jackson
ville, Fla., on her way home from
wishing hira many more happy I day evening of this week to which I bottom lands, plowing and plant-
birthdays. 1 il are cordially invited. I ing was still going on.
W. C. T. U. Meeting
Last Tuesday morning gave the
the W. C. T. U. ladies much dis.
appointment when they awoke and they have taken rooms at the Mrs
fouud the weather too unfavorable Dougherty home.
tMv. I iV, 4. 4.1. i i;i
w.ui0 ul ii hjcii uiccimg at tue ueauiuui W v Rnrkft xtas nvpr frnm
L.niineotne spent Saturday niglit country nome ot Mrs. Frank I . Brookfield and spent Monday after
company with the Cay wood family ing a great time, automobiles and Mrg j L Burke and left that
tooK nearly a nundrea mile auto buggies Having been engaged to niVhr tn nftpurl thP PlL-' stntp
drive, tne onncn spending Sunday take the ladies and their well filled
night and enjoying a fine visit baskets to the home of their mem
with Mrs. Ormsby's parents, Mr. ber for an all day meeting which
and Mrs. W. H. Hedrick nine the ladies enjoy so much and
especially when they heard Mrs.
Welsh was preparing a chicken a sta" at Detr01t' stopped off here
3 a j tt
,inljePi r- iasi oaiuraay ana spent tne aay
Rpo-nrHlAss nf thp wpntw fu0 with the family of A. J. Harter.
. .... .... I fc. AfiMfvi io a cicfAf rf WT XT
nmnn nprpr tm s tn moat ot tha I "'""i ft. IT .
The farmers appointed time and on this occasion Uartian 01 roosneid and J. if
we talked to during the drive were the members were called to thn Martian oi llale and formerly
wanting a half inch of rain and in home of Mrs. Patrick where a most taueht scho1 in this county
this locality they got just what interesting meeting was held. The The following from Laclede at-
they wanted Tuesday morning, lesson, "The Coming Citizen, tended Odd Fellows night at the
While most of the corn is small it Schools and Colleges," was well Hankin-Howey revival in Linneus
rendered by Jlrs. Lee Hamilton. Wednesday night: E. J. Finnev.
The union enjoyed having Mrs. Max Jones, L. B. Halev, J. Paul
Poison of Illinois, with them. Jones, J. T. Cushing, F. R. Power,
Guests present were Mrs. Wm. II. C. Carothers, H. L. Allen, H.
Lomax, Mrs. P. F. Weaver, Mrs. IE. Garside, J. B. Jones, S. W.
O. F. Libby. Mrs. Jas. Poison, Tapscott, G. O. Plowman and W.
and Miss Alta Brownlee of Bueklin. ' E. Shell.
is clean and generally healthv
ooking and with a, favorable
season from now on it looks as if a
airly good crop would be" harvest-
On some farms, especially on
ed
