tfie
ill 0oitil:
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JUNE 23, 1916.
NUMBER 8.
ANSWF.U Till: COFNTHY'S CALL
Company L, tlh Regiment Missouri
Stale (in aril of Mound City,
at Xctntla.
Virtually the entire mobile strength
of the National ('.until of nil the stnte
nml the District of Columbia has licen
(inlcrcd mustered Into the service of
the United Stntc by President
Wilson. About 100,00(1 men me ex
pcettM to respond to the call. They
will he 1110l1lllr.nl Immeillntely for such
service on the Mexican bonier ns later
may be assigned to them.
All commander of the Missouri
troops hove promptly answered the
rail, ami their muster roll are being
forwarded to Washington, with as
little ilclay a possible.
This onler will likely call Into scr
vice Company L, 4lh Itcglmont. which
wn mustered Into service ot Mounil
City, on .Saturday. May HI. The mut
ter loll of the company I n follow:
Olllccrst
Carter. Itay V Captain.
Munn, Clio. K.. ITist Lieutenant.
Forney, Moss. Second Lieutenant.
Illckel. John V 1st Sergeant.
Flkc, Oscar 11, ()uoiterninster Ser
geant. .SlinelTer, DavM A.. Sergeant,
tirllllth. Krnest K.. Scigcnnt.
Hull, Clnrenrc T.. Sergeant.
Wilson, I). I' Sergeant.
Flkc. Orvillc. Cot pornl.
1'icston. (Semite. Corpmal.
Ilnivey. Ilcnj. C, Corporal.
Cook, Wesley. Corpoinl
Shumnnl, Jack, Cmpoial.
Carter, Itov II., Corporal.
Cunllnoll. John It., cook.
Simons, Chnii. A., cook.
Shutts, I'uul I'., musician.
Travis, 1'nul C. musician.
Gibson, Hcgh J., nrtllicer.
Hosier of Coiupan).
Arnold. Albert K.
Aehy, Heniy C.
Admits, (Seorite.
Ashcr, Kobvii.
lloliart. Orn.
Illckel. Fred K.
llnlllniter. James It.
Calhoun. Floyd F
Cnnler, (Seorite.
Chesney. (Srover.
Cook, Wm. II.
Cook. Chorion II.
Dillon, Vance.
tPmlley. Ilarohl.
Dovcl, Toscl.
Dcarmniit. Irl A.
Duncan, Thou. II.
Klton, Fred.
Fleming, I'ark.
.Flttmniirlec, Francis.
(Slick, (Slen.
Gehrlngcr. Verne.
(Sllllllan, Itay.
Hastings, John A.
Huge, Irvln.
Jnckson, Orvllle D.
' Kenneily, Wilbur T.
King, Clark.
Lowe, Frank It,
McJunkln, John.
McXulty. Klby II.
Morris, Horace K.
Mitchell, Marion I
Mlller, Joseph M.
rainier, Italph.
Schoonovcr, Orvlllc.
Fleming, Cha.
(Suthrie, Ilobart.
llennlng, Wm. K.
Jackson. Kobcrt.
Marrlatt, Karl.
Price, Simon II.
Zook, John F.
Montgomery, Wm. S.
Shaffer, John II.
Stanley, Allen G.
Schoonovcr. Tot.
Thomas, Illalr.
Tlbbcts, Hoy.
Uphouse, Lloyd T.
Captain Carter served tlx years In
the regular army. Lieutenant Munn
has hail much experience In the mili
tia service. Lieutenant Forney server
in tho spanisn-Amcrican war.
Missouri' 4.300 guardsmen are now
making ready to go to Nevada for
training, ami rrom there may be en
trained for tho Mexican border.
Col. McNeoly commanding the 4th
regiment held a conference with his
field anil stalf oMIccre, In .St. Joseph,
Monday, with tho view of preparation
for readiness to so to Nevada. Lieut.
Munn, of Company L., attended the
meeting.
Company L was short 14 men of
having Its full quota, and tho ofllccrs
and men got busy recruiting, and as
we go to press the company hod the
required quota of 70 men. Tho later
enlistments we have not been able to
obtain at the closing of our forms
but hope to no so liter.
They left Wednesday evening
lor Nevada, fully equipped tor llcl
and camp duty, and in its ranks aro
to be found business men, clerks, farm
hands, and tho professions.
Tho Sentinel wishes for each and
every one, the best of health, and
iter tneir service mat they may re
turn home without a single man miss
lng from Its ranks, and on their mus
ter out each may answer, "Here."
Making a (SihhI lierord.
Whenever any of our young boys
and girls make good In nny wny, it
certainly Is n pleasure for The Old
ncntlhcl to mnke reconl or It, nml now
we tire going to tell you n little some
thing nlm.it the liish the Fltzmnu
rice family, that Is a little out of the
ordinary.
.mis .Mnigcry, Daughter or .Mr. ami
Mrs. T. I'. Fitxiiiaurlcr, graduated
from our hlith school this Year, at the
ago of 111. Pauline, the daughter of
the lute John I itziimuilcc, who now
mnt:s her home with Ixr mint. Mm.
O. W, Mtillln. Iiiih Jurt completed h'T
mini ycur ni the .Minium Msiris"
Academy, winning (1st honors In pas-
IaI ..nt..l.... 111-. I...... .1 I..-' ...
'
rstBw . yiiso wpauV. . ,U(. ) sewn :tHWnJ
hUGHtS Ofl A fERRY-
liOAT and. A MORE
COMVtrnotAL POSE
puc
A.SOCIAtOl
To SlrnluMin Squnw Creek.
William (S. Andes. Cixlfiey Marti
n'nl 1". W. Zncl'.nry, et al, have em
ployed A. .'I. Tlbbels and V. 11. Iticn-
nnl. attorneys, to institute n proceed
ing In the CMcult Court or Holt Coun
ty, Missouri, nt the October term, for
the puipo-c of incorporating a drain
aire ill strict, which will Include the
hinds in the Squaw Creek valley,
commencing near the center of fee-
lion Twenty-eight (US) In Township
:iNty-threi- (d:i) of llnnge Thlrty
lirl.t I. 'IS): thence runnlnit Southerly
and Wesleily through Stctlon Twen-
ly-rigm l."). lurnty-nlne t'JW) anil
Ihlrty-two In said townthlp; and
thence continuing South nnd Westerly
through Sections l ive (ft). Six' (6),
'even (V) anil l.ightccn (Is) In I own
hlti Sixty-two (C.J) llnnge Thirty
litlit IH9) to n Junction with Suunw
Cieek In or near the center of thu
Southwest iiliniter of Section Jhllteni
(l.'U in Town-hip Sixty-two (rij)
autre Thittt-nine ("'.'). and nlso on
I'lillhe the Itepillillnlli toiielillti wliliii nomliiiiteil lliiulu-s mid 1 n Ir til; on Hie third 1'iillot nflrr all nttenil nt liiirtuony with
the I'rogre'sUes, who nominated llnoi'Velt mid John M. Parker of Loiil-lmiii, ltu fontier Liter refii'liik' I lie honor, the licino.
erntlc eoiixelitlon ill St. Imls prosed more of n rutllli iillon of Wllim and Mur-liall; tho three i;irl lc are nluiot n uric I on strmiit
Amcrlcanl-in and ireiriliie, while John W. WWutt, Wlln's tiomlnntor. nnd (Ulle Jiiine. penimtietit luilriimii. gae
prominence to the ndmlulslrntlon's nttllude townnl iviiiv. In the llHlitlng on the en-tern front the ltiishm. under Itenernl llru-lloir.eontlniHil tluirolTeii-lvo
ngnlnt the Autrlinn, elnlmliig enpture of lM""! prlsoiier, (lietie boenlue Hie leiitir of lidete-l during the week, with I lie report Unit King Coii-liilitlne
bad to Dec to a let real, felt In u- rcvolutlun; (lre-k Irmipi Ueliiolilllr.iili ulllvs ul UmdM innler Siiriull rireiiitliieiieU ilvlelivs.
Mews Snapshots
Of the Week
A (lulit Wedding.
It was n quiet home nllalr and a
most happy one that occurred at the
'whip of the bride's mother, Mr.-.
Fiances I, Dungan, on Thursday Inst,
June I.", nt (i o'clock In the evening,
when her only irmnlnlrg slng'
iaughter. Miss llortense, became tie
wife of Will U son of Mr. nnd Mr-.
I. 1. Moote. nnd with liigomntr
pledge, two souls with but n slng'e
thought, two henrts that bent ns inn.
thev go out together on llfi's Jntirne
Milder the most promising conditions
nnd circumstances.
The wedding wn n very qui t
ntTnlr, only the mendieis of iLp lmii'-
llalr itimilles neing ptesent. i no
tel pnltitlng. i:iliaheth, daughter of.-.'uple entiled the piulor to n wed
Kd Fitrmiiuiice. won tUstlnctlon luherl )" mnivh. .rendeud by the bilde.
work i,i Instmrnvntul music nt tho;,l.u,N"' bllth Kmirher. of Mem
sane sJi'iol. Murv llllcn. daughter 'if I'11''- Tennessee, nnd the winds were
mi r tutfitii ... i. mbi i... snoKen nv l.ev. l. .. . aitelt. or l he
ii n i',.. vt,....nu v..!. I I'tef liti'ilnn rhureh. that mnde this
Dial, and will tench the Tlh nnd Mil "'tilly le love.1 couple husband itnd
riunrj it: I i I'm'.1..! iiii ui...i I .n m r. i unumiiK iui ii-ii-iiiiius u ni-ii'
omlng nr. We cerlninU coiitrintu. '"" r was serveu. ami mo
i.i.. i,,,.... vi, .in,- t,..i. ... 'rouole. arcomnon ed by the urooru
' 1 1 :i... .in. i- ' i
uriHiiiT, .'ilium, in iuo!ur Vlty, ll o-
lorcd to ht. Joseph, where they .'
a train for Nunsns City, for a weck'o
honeyiuoon.
The couple tieeils no Introduction nt
our hands born nnd inlsed heie, thev
have grown up among us, and no two
voung people me mon; dearly lielnved
ny an our pemue tnnn mey. and every
henrt In our beautiful city will surely
wish them a long, sweet life.
The bride Is not onlv an ncconuitlsh.
ed young woman nnd a grudunto of
our Slate University, but a thorough
ly practical, well balanced woman,
while the gmoin is one or our rente
entntlvc business men, n member of
the II nil of Moore & Urt ik.
In the langunge of VnnWinkle
.May you both live long nnd prosper,'
Tho As One.
The ninnv frli.m!. nf M...
Jones, now of Craig, daughter of Mr.
and .Mrs. T. W. Maupln. will doubt-
less be glad to learn of her marriage,
which occurieil nt I'mnn, ri,ii,.i
Texas, on Satunlay of lost week, June
" "V.vp "ung. n young attor
ney of Houston, 'lexns.
The voumr brhln n- inl..l In
city, and nttemleii the old school here,
" . ." circle oi iriends who
will wish her a long, sweet life. The
groom was a Savannah ho v. but hU
later years weie spent In St. Joseph,
from which plnce lie enteied the law
department of the State University,
and graduated. I'm- n time l o was
associated with II. Ilalclgh Martin,
and later went to Houston, whole he
Is associated with a prominent law
llrm.
The Sentinel semU lu lionrti.
RlntUlatlollS tO tllC COUIlle. hnnlni. nn.l
;ravlnif that each ami every day of
their I ves may be as happy to Ihcin
UH.-U nmiung nay.
A Surprise,
On Fiidnv nt In&f ..u .. ...M..ui.
pafty.jvns given In honor of Mrs. Itobt.
("Mo") and Dewey I'roflit. About 10
or their friends and relatives met at
the residence, of Mrs. Pearl Itcynolds
and prepared an old fashioned dinner,
wiv oi inoe Kinn wnero everjiioilv
eats until ilii-v rl ilk. i. u'..
, -' . wtn. .uiiii. ,1M.I.UI
jooks. men tney phoned for "Ma"
rromt and Dewey. Iloth confcsed
that It was one on them. Aftnr din.
ncr, a few hours was spared for chat
ting and music, which made the day a
1 1 ma iiiL-urilllL uill'. f 1 1 U'nrA lintinn
and departed, hoping to meet again In
uiv ni-iir luiurc. ucwcv foni im .iiiin'i
want any supper.
Now a Lawyer.
There comes to our tnble. this week.
another reminder of the minim. Hint
time waits for no one it is a card
announcing the commencement exer
cises of the Law department of the
Michigan University, nt Ann Arbo.
mid In the class roll appears tho name
oi oiaunce ti., son oi .Mr. ami Airs. I.
C. Flits, of Kansas City. The irrndii.
ute of today is an Oregon product,
and up to tho time of tho removal of
tho ramlly to Kansas City, attended
the old school over on tho hill, whero
his mamma nlso attended In Iwr
young days. Tho young man has
mado a Slilcndld record, nnd hn hna
the Btllir in him. out of which trim
men nro made, and some time you will
hear more of Maurice, perhaps In tho
halls of Congress or the U. S. Senate.
A Short, llul Sweet Life.
Our ,hftit't uvimtntlit ii. nut In
our young friend, lloheit Knenle, whp
nns neen railed id mourn ino n nt
his denr young wife, which occurred
nt their home In Fillmore, on Fiidnv.
June 1(1, leaving n baby girl, which
came to them on the Sunday previous,
June 11, The deceased was the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. llryimt lion.
Inson, of Fillmote, and was uhout '.'0
yeurs or age.
mip iierame the wife of the now bo
leaved husband in August, IDl.'i,
A Foul Murder.
('. W. Hunt, n lnolher of Judge
lolin II. nnd Frank Hunt, of Craig,
was rouiiy miitdired al uxmiug
A Mulct Wedding.
In the lilesence of onlv the minis.
ter, the bride's and grown' mother,
.lolin llenrv Mmn-on nnd .Mis Lillian
iim,,i, , .,., n,n ni..M .it M.tn.int- nt Mary 1'i'ii'p wen' utiltiil in ttinri (ntir
lost week. June F'th. '' l'V. T. A. Clngett. nt the home if
The (Ikniti ir.'tf lla 'v Democrnt of ine urine moiiier in mis ruy. on
tti.m l!t t.tvd II. tt'a, fidtim Im- lin til. Wi'ilneMlnv evenlni; nst. June 14.
nltil: , I he liihlc wn eer nil Otegon gill.
'C. v. llimi. n uk .liiiiuvM n i l. one who has itionn tin among us nnd
inn. wns shot and killed ln-t night. I greatly Im-IoviM ,y n large elielo of
lust after nine o'clock. Tin miinler mends, who w II wish for her a long,
ook nlnre Just nt the east i"id of Hie swert, nniipy lid conteimn inc. mio
.! hr. bain, on the enst -ide. Th" 11 danlt "f miuh nhllity. nnd is
nun' of tin. IdllliiL' U iink'iowii nml fultj eiinliMil to enter uiuni her new
in nri.sl l.nve ns .et been made. ' relallenshlp. mid will Ih.IIiI for her
although the nlllcer l.ne some pretty
lrong evideiire, nnd in nil proiininiliy
it least one tirtcst will be mnde In n
few hours.
"Hunt wns shot thiee times, either
ine of whii li would Imve proved fatal
companion n liftuitiftii Cluislinn home.
.Air. Simpson is nlo or tho mnnor
hoiu. and is one of our iiomttar Miunir
neu. For six )enr he wos the a
ilstoiit postmaster heie under Mr.
Vl'in. nnd for two years wns with T.
he til rt shot entered the bienst mid ' ' I rice In the hunlwiire business, and
passed thtoiigh iho limit. TI liter 1 1 n most iroiiilslng young num.
wo shots we viili'iitlv liii'd nflrr The counle left Immediately follow-
the man had fallen, as one of them I lng the ceiomoiiy for Kansas City,
rntrn.,1 iho tun of tin. kliiiiihlrr nml Ithenco to Yates Center. Kansas, wheie
ranged downunrd. ilohbery was not they will spend n bilef honeymoon
whii ine Kioonr in inner, nr. ihniic.4
In a Sling!'
It kicked, and tho result Is Human.
son of Mr. and Mrs. Levi Schulte, Is
now carrying his right arm in a sling.
On Thursday afternoon last, June 16,
he attempted to start the family auto,
as It stood at the family home, and
procecdcd.to do the cranking act, but
inu Hum ioiiik uecame cranny, an I
the result wns the cronk struck Her
man just above the wrist Joint, and
he now lias a broken aim. Dr. Wood
was called and he fixed him up in
good shape, and Herman is around
among his young Mends, but he Isn't
turning any sommersaults just now.
To Kansas City,
II. A. F.vans, accompanied by l. II.
Kunkel nnd wife and W. W. Dawson,
left by auto, Sunday morning, about
4::i0, enrouto to Kansas City, nniving
thcto at II a. in., in time to toko In
tho Hilly Sunday meeting. Mrs. I Ivans
and children, Lnvona tinib Mmgcrv,
and Mrs. Dawson nnd Master Jack,
Jr., were already there. Near Fork
vllle, they had a llttlo trouble In cros
sing a culvert, and Mrs, Kunkel had
her Hp cut, nnd Mr. Dawson iinivcj
n cut or so on tho head, but nothing
sciious, and they were soon Hatched
up at I'atkvllle, and went on Into
Kansas uty, tho cor not being injur
ed.
Her Summons.
Mrs. Kdward Dyer died at her honjo
In Foihes township, on Sunday last,
June 18, at the age of 42 years.
She leaves a husband nnd four chil
drenthree sons and ono daughter.
Mrs. rhlllp Greene, liny, Georgo end
Uud,
Funeral services were held from the
family home on Tuesday, by Rev.
Hutton, the interment being In tho
Oregon cemetery.
Ves Hunker, of Fortescue, nnd
I-.vcrctt Airier, of Now I'o nt. me rid
lng around in new Ford touring cars,
purchased from tho Kccvcs-llragg
Auto Co., or this city.
Cook & Foster, of this city, sold
Dodge touring cars, In tho last week,
to the ro owing parties: Ml uoouuei
lng, Craig; Clydo Thompson, Mound
City; Will Mnhon, Spencer Hoswell,
ueo, W, i'oiiock ana Leonard i.ana
reth, Oregon.
the motive. In the opinion of the olll
rer. ns Hunt' pockets were undis-
tuibed, ii cents in money, n pipe nml
piece of tnhncco being found In them
liv Dentity Sherllf Cnmnbell. the first
to leach the body after death.
"C. W. Hunt, the dead man. has
been living In Okmulgee and vicinity
lot' some years nnd wns consioered i
iieareable and inolfensivp old man.
He formerly drove n wagon for the
llawielgh Medicine company, but for
the past year or more has been wink
ing uhout the city. motly at teaming,
lie was living nt the time of his deutli
just ncioss the stleet. south of the
Wetmore Grocery store, on the Fnt
side, lie was a widower and wns liv
ing nlone.
"lie hns n niece, Mr. Stephen Gin
son, living In Okmulgee, Two bioth
ers nlso live nt Craig, Mo. They were
nntllied of their hi oilier' death mid
will arrive In Okmulgee tonight. No
nrinngement will be mode for the
funeral until they arrive.
"The dend man was somewhat active
in Politics, being a number of the So
cialist party, and six yenrs ago wtit
the candidate of that party for sheriir
of Okmulgee county."
Judge Hunt nnd his brother, F. F.
Hunt, of Craig, went in person to Ok
mulgee nml took chnige of the body,
which was brought to Craig, on
Thursday of last week, June 15, and
the Interment wns the following day.
Hud a Great Time.
"Iluddy" (Fred) Ginves, of this
city, is now- being entertained by our
hlitli sherllf, nnd allowed three suunre
meals u day at the expense of our
dear people.
"liuddy" noes the driving an lor
the Auto Sales Company, of this city,
and on Sunday morning of this week,
June in, no i novo a line cauinac (town
to Forest City for his employer, and
evidently Imbibed ton freely of gas or
some ctxniiarniing iiutit, inr nc lurnen
things loose, ran into tho gasoline
tank at the Maikt garage, then he
tried to put his machine over the stile
block tit the Oxley store, tried to
break over tho bridge near the Shef-
field res deuce, went Into the light
iilnnt and drew n iron on Tom Kirk,
and at last was overpowered, and wns
held until the arrival or Shcriti lici
vln, who brought him to Oregon and
mlL'cil h in in mil
"llutldv" evidently had a hlith. old
time, nut it win iiKciy no u cosuy one.
rrosecut nit Attorney iinncis nt
once took steps to have "Iluddy" to
answer to tho cumpimnt in operating
an automobile whilo Intoxicated, and
nlso to the charge of carrying con
cenled weapons, which Is In tho felony
. I A - ! I 1. I.-..,.1HA
111. lie will iilluiKuio ui'iuiu r,iunu
Klmt. on Monday, on tho latter charge
and in default of bond ho was com
mitted to jail to await the action or
tho cit cult court, which meets In Oc
tober. C, D. Zook was In Omahu, this
week, on business.
Attorney W. H, Klchards, D. M.
and M. It. Martin wero In St. Joseph,
Tuesday of this week, on business.
Mrs. Charles J. Herman, of the
Mayflower kchool district, left Tues
day for a visit of several weeks with
her sister, Mrs. Charles Triplett, of
LaJunta, Colorado.
Simpson mid w Ife,
They are both graduates of the
Olcgun high school class of IPOI,
Afler Four Years.
Aliiltew Abele. son of John Ahele,
of l.n I'ryor, Texas, I heie on a visit
whii his unrie, Andrew lociitermnn.
nnd other relative. It Is pi.w four
yenrs since he went to Ten with hi
patents, mid he say lie likes that
country line now, hut nt llrt he wn
mil "stuck on lexns. Sav fnttn Imr
is tmiiii easier In that country, ns tho
innd my peirectly level they me
not in the dry holt, nnd hnve Im
plenty of mnlstuie. He lenort the
followinir former Oieitonlte ns well
nnd prospering! John llond nml wife
l.eign and I. an llond nnd rnmllles
John Morris nml family, Pembroke
lllmirhord, Albeit llollnmn and ram
lly. - .
n
Y. I'. A. Notes.
The Y. P. A. business meeting for
tho month of June was held at the
rhureh, luesdny evening, June -0,
villi most of the member present
The odlcer nt nresrnt nro; President
uaipn riy; Vice-rresidenl, Alls Maud
i. i i ........ i... ...
rriieiouciier, uoriesnontiiug secte
.... !.'... I. i.....t.i. i, it
ihi ill. HI luiini-. l.mfllllllK SI I -
retary, Miss Lola Nichols; Mission
secretary. Mrs. N.C. Johnson: Trra'
uier, Mr. Cluis, llnrtrnm. Italnh I'rv
was appointed a deleirate to represent
our Alliance nt the convention to he
held In Lawrence, Kunsns, duilng the
month or August. .Miss I.ola Nichol
is the alternate. HF.rOltTF.lt.
It
another prong of tin Squaw Cmk,
commencing near the rsortliwest corn-
r of the Noitheast quarter of Sec
tion Nineteen (IP) In Township Sixty
thlee (C..I) llnnge Thlrtv-elglit (as),
on the Atchison County line; and then
running Mitithciiy mm westerly
thlougli Sections Nlneticn (10) and
unity cut), lownship sixty-ihite
U:i) nnd litinite T i rtv-chtht CIS):
and thence continuing In n Snutlielly
nnd Westerly course through liange
hirly-niue .T.), and One (1), Iwelve
ll-JI. Thlrtien (Dl). Fourteen (14)
nnd Twenty-lhtee U'.'l), Township Sixty-two
(I'll'), llnnge Thlity-nlnc CI'.').
I he purpose or this Is to rut oil the
bends In Squnw Creek nnd dig a chan
nel, running approximately on straight
lines, or neai ly so. ns the contour or
the valley will permit, and of sulll
cient sire to enrry otf lapldly and
pilckly the water coming down these
wo vnlleys.
ThU nmtter hn been tnlked of for
several yiars, but peer ns yet l.n
got beyond the talking stnge until re-
cntlv. I he iiihxIi. or li'l.i nml IPin
so far, have convinced the fanner
that they cannot nlfonl longer to oo
i i'Ii'p oir tins immensely vntuniiio
laud. It Is estimated that the nver
nge vnhie of clops on this land, If
protected from ovelllow, would
nniount to $'J.",.tKl per ncte per season,
mid the fcoplo lit lng In this valley
ale too good n rlns of business men
to longer stand for this loss.
One lenson for the ilelny in "getting
together hns been that there has
hi en nn nttempt to get nil of the
people Into n ronttoct. and on nccount
of trere ling so pinny, It seems al
most impossinio ot nrcompiishmen.,
hence It has boon decided to Incjrpor
nte n diahiage district.
Hie attorney ale now at work pre
paring the necessary papers. . w
,4k i
New llrldge.
Henry Howies, of tho llurr Onk sec
tion. was In town. Tuesday, nml irnvi
us a call. We always enjoy Henry's
coming, for ho Is one ot those men
who has something to say. Ho told
us that County Highway Knglnccr
Peret had completed a new IIT-foot
pile bridge over a ditch, about 100
vords east of the llurr Oak school
house, made necessary by the recent
nigii wmcr conditions m thai section
and that the bridge became a ncce
sity.
o
Nell Kunkel Is now the engineer
nt mo ngni plant, vico uuio cole, who
reuigneii.
Klza Miller died at hi homo nenr
.Mound City, on Monduy of this week
Juno 10, at tho age or W yenrs.
.lames Pelt lolin nnd wife, of ftos
ctidulc, wero hero Monday, enjoying t
visit with their son, Lester, our un
ncrioKcr,
F.ldon F.vans, Ph. 1)., of the Chi
cago University, is heie to enlov hi
vacation with his parents, Dr. and
.Mrs. u. i.. i'.vnns.
Mrs. Andy Morris, of Mound City
accompanied by her daughter, Mrs.
jbkp uunnam, ot iimncnnid, lowo
wero vlsltlnif hero Sunday and Mon.
duy with Mr. and Mrs. Will Morris.
Mrs. Wm. Crafton, of St. Joseph
while on her way to Watson. Mo.
with friends, travelling In an auto.
received severe cuts about the face
and head, on Saturday, June 17, by
the car wheel going into a ditch and
ureKing (town, throwing Mrs. craf
ton against the wind-shield.
A Happy Adair.
A benutlful home wedding was sol
innlrid. on Tuesday eveninit of thl
week. Juno 'JO, nt the home of thu
irde no I eats, J, A. Had ey and wife.
near this city, when their dnughter.
.Mis' i.mmu .M., Pecmne the wire or
lliilph Prussmnu. of Mitchell, South
Dakota, the reiemony uniting these
two most excellent oung people being
performed by Khler II. II. Dawson, of
the Oiegon Christian church. .
A number of the moie Int nmto
friemU of the contracting parties
weie present to witness thu cerrmonv.
The home wns a bower of beauty in
iieroiniions, ami every detail was in
full keeping with the hnpny occasion.
I he couple was attended by Mr.
Will lladley. a brother of the hrld.v
and Miss Lottie Prussman, a sister of
the gloom. The Initial party entered
the parlor to u beautiful wedding
march, played by Miss Mary Lacey,
mid hero In the piesence of many
friends, the Imnresslve rims senire
united these two hearts ns one.
The ceremony wn performed at C
o'clock .after which runic a sumptuous
three-course dinner, and then .the
couple left for Mitchell, South Dakn-
la, where the groom is in business,
and where thev will begin the making
of a home, Tho bride has been ono
of Holt county's splendid teachers,
irom whose ranks sho will be greatly
missed, as well us from a larire circle
of friends, who love her dearly for
her many beautiful traits of character.
The Sentinel congratulates tho young
couple, wishing them peace, plenty
nnd prosperity ns long us they both
shall live.
Wo are sorry to leurn of the seri
ous Illness of Tom Itam.ay.
Try "Cup d's Dream." You' Iko
It. Ilcnnlmrer Saniturv Soda Foun
tain.
Hon. Thomas A. Houchln. Demo
cratic candidate for governor, was
here, Tuesday, circulating among his
friends.
Frank Hunter wns taken to a St.
Joseph hospital, last Sumluy, by his
physician, Dr. Kearney, whero he un
derwent an operation. He Is doing
as well as could bo expected.
Hilly Sunday closed ids seven-
weeks' revival at Kansas City, Sunday
night last. Ho' received $:li,000, nnd
mnda the record of 20,035 conversions,
with a total attendance of l,:joG,000.
Uud llengle, who lives south of
Fortcscuo, was arrested on Tuesday of
this week, on complaint sworn out be
fore Ksqulro VanCnmn, charging him
with threatening the lives of his wifo
and children.
Henry Scyfcr nnd daughter, Miss
Gladys, of Dunbar, Nebraska, visited
hero a short time with relatives, this
week, returning homo Wednesday.
Miss Gladys did not return home, but
accompanied her aunt, Mrs. Anna
Schelb, to Colorado, for a visit with
relatives,, Lajsra being their objective
point.
