AILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 85.
BAR RE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, JUNE 23, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
THE BARRE
STILL IN HOPES
TO AVERT WAR
WITH MEXICO
Santo Domingo, and also m bound to
catch a negro deserter who h hd lrl
was in Villa Ahumada,"
United States Officials at Washington
Do Not Consider That the Outlook
Is Any Too Bright, However, and
Are Preparing to Send Militia to the
ler
Bord(
V
MEXICO OFFICIALS
i NOT OVER WAR-LIKE
First Militia Bodies to Go to Mexican
Border Will Be 5,000 From Central
States and 5,000 From Western States,
As Soon As Ready for Service
Washington, D. C, June 23. Hope persisted among officials to
day that Avar against Mexico would not become necessary. Mexico
City despatches indicated that the leaders of the Carranza govern
ment may show a similar attitude. The outlook is not bright,
however, and orders have been issued for the transportation of
10,000 National Guardsmen from the central and western states as
soon as they are ready for service
The United States officials are greatly worried over the delay in
getting news from the survivors of the Tenth cavalry, which en
gaged an overwhelming force at Carrizal
Secretary of War Baker denied the rumors that an immediate
call for volunteers to add to the regulars and National Guards was
planned. Senator Stone, chairman of the Senate foreign relations
committee, said to-day that Congress would do nothing in the crisis
which might interfere with negotiations between the state depart
ment and the de facto government.
Whatever the facts may prove to be 11
MEXICANS DUG PITFALL,
American Cavalry T'etachment Drove in
and Many Were Unseated.
El Paso, Tex., June 2.). A new ver
sion of the engagement, was brought here
yesterday by a Mexican civilian, who wa
in Villa Ahumada early Wednesday aft
ernoon and who said he assisted in dress
ing gome of the Mexican wounded.
said that On. Felix (iomez, the slai
Carranza leader, had been aware of th
approach of the Americans for 12 hour
and had sent a number of couriers to
them warning them to return to the
encampment.
When they persisted in their advanc
he said, a pitfall several hundred feet in
length was dug directly in the trail over
which the cavalrymen must ride. Ihia
was cleverly concealed with brush
As the Ameriittns rode unhesitatingly
through the sand dunes toward the en
trenchment, (fen. fiomei! lay concealed
some hundred yards away in the mes
quite. The horses of the American van
guard plunged into the pitfall, unseating
their riders and injuring a number of
them.
Then, the Mexican asserted, the Car
ran?? forces lying in ambush raked the
American ranks , with a machine gun
The heavy fire forced the Americans to
withdraw to reorganise their line and
the Mexicans" captured 17 soldiers who
had been thrown into the pit.
He asserted that it was then that Gen
Gomez went forward tinder a flag of
truce and that liefore the proposed par
ley had begun an irresponsible soldier
again started the machine gun fire.
A small detachment of cavalrymen
charged toward (Jen. Gomez and his
party, who were in the center of a field
directly between the two commands,
their pistol fire killing the Mexicun com
mander.
According to the story both commands
withdrew.
,,- -when General Pershing's report arrives,
it is certain that no steps toward reprisal
will be taken at least until that report
has been carefully studied.
One of the first actions, however, would
be to demand the release of the Amer
icans said to have been captured. Neith
er is it probable there will be any imme
diate move as a result of the incident
Sunday at Mazatlin, where Mexican sol
diers made an unprovoked attack on
American bluejackets, according to an of
ficial report to the navy department to
day from the commander of the gunboat
Annapolis.
It is deemed probable that should Gen
eral Pershing's report on the Carrizal
fight show the Carranza forces to have
been the aggressors there also, an oppor
tunity to explain the two incidents would
be given the de facto government before
any drastic step was ordered by Presi
dent Wilson.
Both cases have been officially called
to the attention of the United States by
the Carranza, government's ambassador-
designate, Eliseo Arredondo.
While this fresh cause for apprehen
sion was occupying officials, a circular
note addressed to the South and Central
American diplomats by Secretary Lan
sing, was made public at the state de
partment. It accompanied copies of the
note to General Carranza, distributed as
a matter of information and was accept
ed hy the diplomats as the last word of the
I'nited States before proceeding with any
steps which Carranza's course might
make necessary.
The statement is a blunt assertion of
the purposes of the United States to de
fend "our national peace and the safety
of our citizens," even at the cost of war.
This communication was issued to the
Latin-American diplomats, it is under
stood, to reassure them as to the policy
of the United Shades and in an effort to
keep intact the Pan-Amerycan under
standing for which the administration
has labored. European representatives
will not fail to obtain copies of the docu
ment, and it is understood to be aimed
partly at anti-American propaganda con
ducted abroad by Mexican agencies and
other influences which are said to seek
to promote hostilities between the two
countries.
General Carranza took pains to see
that his charges of bad faith against the
army law was asked in the House to-day
by Chairman Hay of the military com
mittee. At the siime time he offered an
amendment to declare that the emergen
cy for the draft now exists instead of
leaving the question to be determined by
the president. Chairman Hay told the
House that the resolution did not con
template a state of war but the fact that
the resolution was handed him by the
war department showed that in the ex
ecutive's opinion the emergency exists
and that the resolution was absolutely
necessary.
AMERICAN PRISONERS
HELD AT CHIHUAHUA
One of Pershing's Mormon Scouts, Who
Was with Them, Gives an Account
of the Fight at Carrizal Cap
tain Moore, Though In
jured, Escaped. '
t
Chihuahua City, Mexico, June 23. The
17 American eoldiers, negro troopers of
the 10th cavalry, who were captured in
the battle at Carrizal, were brought here
yesterday with Lem H. Spillsburg, a
Mormon scout, employed by Gen. J. J.
Pershing, and were interned. .
A Captain Moore, who was with the
American detachment, was wounded in
the shoulder, but escaped.
- In announcing, a story of the battle,
which he said Spillsbtiry told him, Gen.
Jacinto Trevina, commander of the mili
tary district of the northeast, announced
that any time and at any place the
American troops move other than toward
the border, he will comply to the letter
with his superior's orders and will at
tack them as General Felix Gomez did
at Carrizal..
General Trevino said that all diplo
matic arrangements are outside of his
sphere.
Spillsbury's story as announced by
General Trevino, was to the effect that
H negroes, comprising Troop H. of the
10tlt cavalry. Captains Bovd and Moore.
Lieut. Adair and himself, composed the
American detachment that encountered
the Mexicans.
He said that he saw on the field the
bodies of Boyd and Adjair and at least
11 of the negroes.
Spillsbury's account as given out, fol
lows: 'In reply to this. Lieutenant Rivaa no
tified the American that if he attempted
to advance he would have to pass over
the dead bodies of the Mexicans.
AMERICANS RUSHED
ABOARD WARSHIP
AT VERA CRUZ
Five Coaches of Refugees Reached the
Coast To-day and More are Ex
pected to Arrive Later in :
the Day.
Vera (Yuz, June 23. Five first-class
passenger coaches filled with Americans
arrived last night and the Americans will
go aboard the battleship Nebraska to
day, later being transferred to a trans
port. More refugees are expected to
day.
MONTPELIER
REPULSED 10 TEACHERS
BY BAYONET IN CLASS OF 30
AT G0DDARD
Germans Made Three As
saults on French Trenches
in Champagne District
VERDUN SECTOR
ALSO A BUSY PLACE
All Night There Was Violent
Artillery Fighting, Espe
cially on Vaux Front
All of the Prospective Teach
ers Graduated To-day at
the Seminary Are Report
ed to Have Secured Schools
for the Coming Fall Six
teen Others. Plan to Enter
College - ,
Paris June 2J.--Tbe Germans have
launched a heavy Attack in the Cham
pagne district, three, violent assaults on
Jrencli trenches in the region of Mont
Tetu being repulsed, last night after se
vere fighting with grenades and bayonets,
according to to-day's official statement.
West ot the Meuse in the rrdun see-
tor the Germans again attacked hill 304
nd there was lively ' fighting near Dead
Mans lull. There v-as heavy artillery
fighting all night in this sector, being
particularly violent east of the Meuse
around the aux front.
FRENCH REGAIN TRENCHES.
FIRST HONOR STUDENT
WAS HAROLD CLARK
Two Others Receiving Spe
cial Distinction Were Elsie
M. Welch and Mildred A.-
Kent .Prize Speaking
Held Last Evening and
Class Day Exercises in the
Afternoon
June closing at Goddard seminary
reached its climax this forenoon when
exercises in the school chapel were held more recent alumni are in town for the
ing sons and daughters of Goddard will
long cherish a warm regard for the old
school.
The closing exercises were brief, but
impressive. Pnn. Hollister and Judge
Darling spoke of the responsibilities rest
ing upon the young men and women who
'are to carry Goddard's standard out into
the world. The class, forming in single
file, received their diplomas and then
joined in singing the class hvmn, a com-
.position of three verses written especial
ly tor the occasion.
The Graduates.
BEALS. NORMA ORETCHEN, Turner, Me.'
BK1GHAM, VIOLET LILLIAN, Weatboro,
MSM.
BYCRAFT. CLARE ELIZABETH. Granitevllle
UAMKKMN. AMY MADINE. Mat-shna d
CANK1ELD, VIVIEN LENORA, Woodstock
CLARK. HAROLD ORLANDO. E. Montpelier
CONNER. PRESTON LEON. 6U Johntbury
DAVIS. ALKRED MARTIN. Ran
EATON. EVELYN CARRIE. Hrx-heater
OILMAN. RAYMOND STEPHEN. Marahfleld
HOAR, ELIZABETH ALLEN. Barra
HUBBARD. MAMIE EMMA. Hancock
KREFE. DAVID EDWIN. Richmond
KENT. MILDRED ARLENE, Salisbury
LANTZ. CARL ADOLPH ALVIN, WebnU-rville
LOUDON. HUBBARD MOORE, SprinKfield
MAI'PLEBECK, THOMAS ERIC, Rochester,
N. H.
MEARS. RALPH WILLIAM. Mainhflelrf
MrCRILLIS. GEORfiE CLARK. Manthfleld
PHELPS. JAMES EVERETT. Murnhfield
QUINN. WILLIAM AMBROSE, Dorchester,
Man.
RAYCRAKT. GLADYS MAY. Barre
ROCK. ALTON AIJTIN. V'hterville
SHEPARD. GEOROE ALBY. Bo.ton. Mm.
TILLOTSON, KENNETH JAMES. Proctor
VIRTUE. EDITH AMANDA. Concord
WARK. ROY HENRY. Hardwlck
WELCH. ELSIE MARGARET, Eaat Corinth
WIM.KY. MAX FAY, Barre
WINTER, RALPH BANCROFT, Barre
.Sixteen members of the class are to
enter college in the fall, although few
have chosen their institutions. Ten
members, mentioned below, complete the
teacher training course and all have se
cured schools, to begin their duties in
September. The tear her training grad
uates are: Misses Heals, Bngham, Bv
craft, Cameron. Canfield. Eaton, Hubbard,
Kaycraft and Welch and Mr. Winter.
This afternoon at 4 o'clock there will
be a reception at the home of Dr. and
Mrs. Hollister at 34 Merchant street. The
osing reception by the teachers and the
ass wifl take plaee in the school chapel
this evening at 8 o'clock. Many of the
HARVARD WON J
BY BIG SPURT!
Crimson Freshmen Came
- from Behind and Just
Poked She' Ahead.-
HARVAR" SECONDS
J-jO WON RACE
In Latler Contest the Win-
ning Crew Was Two
Boat Lengths Ahead
Drove Germans Out of Section Between
Fumin Wood and Chenois.
London, June 23. On both sides of the
iver Meuse in the region of Verdun and
east ot the fortress-in the Woevre. at
the foot of the Meuse- hills the Germans
peciallv heavy are the attacks against l rK lne graduation or .to numenis 10-mgnt.
Hill 304 and I.e. Mort Homme, northwest I who have completed the tour-year course
f Verdun and northeast of the fortress Added to the 23 students who received PVPPI T tT'XTnn wmmr
round Thiaumont. the Vaux wood, Chap- Luir nmmlrr;1, eerritie-te. t ra,. lJ1J 1 " vJIVIY
tre and fort l,aute. , ....... t. , TV TTT"7ir enf i'rnc
I counter attack th. French have uaMO exercises i uesasy evening, me x I 1 IVlJ Ol IWirvEilVO
retaken from the Germans most of the ehuui w "hieh went out from the institution
t
renohes the Germans rapfiued Wednes-to-day probably approaches a highwater Sarah J. Martin and James E. Phelps
ay night between tlie Hnnin Wood and mark since thf tir(it commencement in
henois, northeast of erdun. I , - . r , . . .
rrA prmum Hour ljii-mnhv cnnrtirpril ' e
rush trenches, but later were driven mn m to Barr'' receive their pre-
out. suffering heavy losses in 4he eoun- paratory education from adjoining states
ter-attack. indicates that Gorldard's snhere nf influ
KILLED IN FRANCE.
Won First Prizes Evelyn M. Drew
and Kenneth J. Tillotson Sec
ond Prizes Last Evening.
(In the night before graduation
ence is constantly widening. (Goddard seniors and juniors competed in
Not in several years his there been alone of the most interesting prize speak
Regatta course, Xew London. Conn..
June Harvard won both the fresh
men eight and varsity second crew con
tests from Vale this morning. In the
first race the Harvard freshmen won a
thrilling victory, .overtaking Vale in th
last ha If -minute and winning by three
quarters of a boat length. The official
time of the race, was Harvard 10 min
utes and 3 3-S second; Vale, 10 min
utes and 39 seconds.
In the serond varsity crew race Har
vard won by two lengths, Vale catching
the water first and holding a lead during
the first half-mile. Then Harvard began
to pull up and passed the Blue.
The official time of the second crews'
race was Harvard 10. .minutes and 25
seconds, Vale 10 minutes, and 27 seconds.
The varsity race will, .be .rowed late
this afternoon, and Harvard is the fa
vorite in this contest
READY FOR ROUTINE
AT VERMONT CAMP
Over 1,000 Men Slept Under Canvass Near
Fort Ethan Allen Last Night Avr
erage Strength Per Company
is About 75 Men.
Louis
K. Marcotte Died To-day After
Operation Three Weeks Ago.
The death nf ' Louis K. Marcotte of
upper Main street occurred at 1:30
o'clock this morning at Heaton hospital,
where he has been since the first of June,
an operation baring been performed three
weeks ago. He had wen in ill health
since last fall. The deceased" was born
in Montpelier July , 186tt, the son of
l eter and Cordelia (Rivers! Marcotte and
also resided in Montpelier, pursuing the
trade of painter and paper-hanger. A
numbes of years ago he purchased a
home on upper Main street, where he has
since resided. He belonged to the local
aerie of Kaglcs.
He is survived by his wife, who was
Ellen Counter; one son, Louis Richard
Marcotte of Montpelier; a sister. Mrs.
arrie Daucruese of hast Montpelier; a
nephew, Peter Marcotte, and a niece, Mrs.
George Megrath of Montpelier. The fu
neral will probably be held Monday
morning from St." Augustine's church
with burial in Catholic cemetery.
Mayor Boutwell was authorized to ap
point a committee of three citizens last
evening at a special sjitjjon of the city
council, the duty of the committee to
consist of taking charge of eases where
families are dependent upon those who
enlisted with Company H. A specfal city
meeting was also called for July 6 for
the purpose of authorizing the council
to renew the lighting contract.
In probate court yesterday Mrs. Nettie
Ferris settled her account as executrix
of the will of Albert K. Lovejny.
t lerk of the I nited States Court Fred
S. Piatt left this forenoon for his home
in Rutland after conducting sessions of
naturalisation court in ltarre and Mont
pelier, Wednesday nd Thursday. Clerk
I'latt and his assistants were in the fed
eral court room at Montpelier yesterday
forenoon, afternoon anil evening, nine
appearing and receiving their first papers
and five making application fur the final.
rollowing-is the list of apphctnts: First
the missing in the recent casualties in
France. McBain was employed as a farm
laborer. He enlisted with a Canadian
regiment a year ago. -3'i is the third
St. Johnsbury man killed or injured in
the allies service. Private Trevor J ,
Jones, a former draftsman at Fairbanks
shops was killed in action, ami Norman
Gibson is in a hospital in France se
riously wounded.
Alleged Deserter Held in St. Albans.
St. Album), June 23. An orlicer is ex
pected here to-day to get Roy Witman
of-Scranton, Pa., a member of the rith
United States field hospital corps, who
was arrested here Wednesday evening
by ( met ot Police Mahoney on a- charge
ot desertion. Witman enlisted at Rich
mond, Va., about six months ago.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Charles McBain, St. Johnsbury Man, Who larger assembly of alumni, friends of the ing contests in several years. The scm
Enlisted a Year Ago. graduates and students than that which mary chapel was crowded with com
St. Johnsbury, June 2S. Charles Mc- gathered at the school to-day. Goddard meneement visitors and with a program
Bain of St. Johnsbury is reported among cla!s banners of other years mingled with of uniform excellence the competition
the school colors and the color scheme of may ne oesenoea as one ot ine most sat
the lf16 class in the decorative arrange- isfying features of the June closing week
ment. The staee was attractively dec- There were two delightful musical num
orated with evergreens rrangcniS""Tb!W ' t" InlerpeW'tli'fe' . eight speaking
panel effect, across which was suspended numbers. I he judges were: Miss F.thoi
the class motto, "Facta non Verba," in May Hamilton, 00. of Wayland, MUa.
the class colors. Member of the junior Mrs. Kdson 1'eck, R(. of Bristol, Conn
class acted as ushers and the furge crowd and Mrs. James E. Loudon of Spring
was seated expeditiously. held.
The program began at 10 o'clock. Seat- Awards were made as follows: First
ed on the rostrum wer Prin. O. K. Hoi- prize for girls, Miss Sarah J. Martin, who
lister and Charles H. Darling of Burling- Rave a monologue entitled. "Polly's Km
ton, president of the board of trustees, prise Party"; second prize for girN, Miss
An orchestra of local musicians played a fcveiyn si. urew, monologue, "Ahbie s Ac
march while the 1016 crtduates "were counts"; first prize for boys, James K
ushered to seats fronting the stage. Wil- Phelps, who delivered Patrick Henry's
nam Mcintosh of Dorchester, Mass., act
ed as marshal. After the invocation, the
orchestra gave an overture and Miss Mil
dred A. Kent of Salisbury, the third hon
or student in thi year's class, was in
troduced as the saluraforian. Miss Kent
had committed to memory an unusually
fine piece of rhetoric and her greeting to
the guests of the day radiated a welcom
ing spirit.
I he first oration of the day was deliv
ered bv Ralph B. Winter of Barre. who
spoke from the topic. "Ihe Industrial la
terests of New I-.nglaiid. Mr. Winters
oration dealt with a wide nnge of sub
jects pertinent to the development of in-
i!i!ftrinl V,w KriLflsinil iinrl rii ilplivrrl it I .
ization.
wirn lorceiuinesH.
J. G. Tyler of Manchester, N". If., ar
rived in the city yesterday, where he
will spend a number of days a a busi
ness visitor.
Miss Beatrice Goslant returned to her
home in .aneeboro last evening after
spending the past week at the home of
Bennett Julian.
Raymond Sherburne, a Goddard alum
nus, visited with friends in the city yes
terday, returning to his home in St.
Johnsbury last evening.
Jyonis Klann. who Ins lie en visiting
here for the past few days, left for St
Paul, Minn., this noon to resume his
duties as train dispatcher on the C. M.
A S. i railroad.
Mrs. Judson Bailey of Montpelier has
been attending the week at the Goddard
seminary commencement. Mrs. Bailey,
who was Miss Hallie Templeton, was a
graduate in the class of !ViS. v
Miss Jessie Murray and Miss Flora
McDonald arrived in the city this after
noon from Sugar Hill, N. II., where they
have been employed of late, to spend a
He ad
I'nited St.ites were w idely circulated vised Boyd that he had better nt ar
ere. in IM tin -.America and in r.u- gue tne matter.
Kecretarv Ijinsing felt it advis-1 "Rivas returned to the village to re
port to his superior officer. General ,Go-
Itoth h
rope,
able to counteract this. He would not
lioues his reasons, hut it is known that
the state department has received much
indirect information tending to show
that German influence have been buy
against the interests of the I'nited States
in Mexico. Latin-America and in neutral
Kurope. It was suggested also that Mr.
Lansing might haxe intended the circular
note to head off possible offers of media
tion.
After a two hours' rabinrt meeting
Secretary Lning said that there was no
change in the situation and that )he
complete report of the Carrizal tighting
Still was awaited.
mez, who sent out a note uniting the
Americans to enter Carrizal for a con
ference. Captain Boyd declined this in
vitation. "On this ground Gomez went out in
person and inciMedly urged the Ameri
cans to retire, pointing out that bis or
ders from his superiors necessitated his
acting on them withtut further parley.
l.enersl (miez repeated these words as
papers, Harry Hammerman, Russia, St. I few days with their people.
.lltfliis; Joseph liessette, Kussia. Mont
pelier: Antonio Delavori, Italy, Montpe
lier; James Doclicrtv, (Scotland. Montpe
lier; Adrian J. Granger, Canada, Mont
pelier; Sigfrcd W. Olson, Sweden. Mont
pelier; Sam Robinson, Russia St. Alltans;
Robert K. Susent. Italy. Montpelier;
Archie J. Dupres, Canada. Randolph: sec
ond papers, ( arello Delia Snta. Italy,
Waterbury; Edward Docherty, Scotland.
Montpelier; Joseph Granqer, Canada,
Berlin; Romolo Misetti. Italy, Montpe
lier; Anton Oburhousi. Russia, Montpe
lier. Chester W. Merrill of Cincinnati, O.,
is visiting in the city with his sister.
Mrs. hwrlotte Merrill of State -street, it
being his first visit to Montpelier in 31
years, having left for the We-t -lit years
ago. He attended the With reunion of his
class at Dartmouth college this week,
there being les than a score of the rU
now living.
Mrs. Nettie Jerome has finished work
at The Kellogg and returned to her home
in Northfield.
Ira Calef of Washington was in the
city yesterday to attend the Goddard ex
ervUes. He was accompanied by Miss
OMe Cali-f, who will lie rememliered as
a member of the faculty a few years
ago.
Allen Dix. who was graduated from
me class ,,( i !t 1 1 at iioddard seminary,
has jiint completed his course at the I ni-
versity of Vermont and returned last
evening to spend a part of the summer
with his mother. Mrs. Hattie Dix on
Wellington street.
Mr. anil Mrs. Irving Martin and Mr.
and Mrs. Jason Martin passed through
the city yesterday to their home in Wil
liamstoHn. having passed the last week
attending the exerti-es st Wptdpyan uni
versity, at Middlelow n. Conn., vthet'e K.l-
don Martin, son ot Mr. and Mis. Martin,
has just received his degree.
Or. and Mrs. B. F. Allen motored
throngl;
bv Mr;-
(Continued on third page.)
FIRST ORDER TO MILITIA.
5,000 Central and 5,000 Western Troops
Ordered to Hasten Movements.
Washington. D. C, June 23. The first
(order for sending to the border national
guardsmen called into the federal serv
ice last Sunday by President llson
went, out from the war department last
night. At the same time Secretary
Baker sent inquiries to the state gov
ernors that are expected to hasten mohil-
1 lie American (.iris Inheritance , was
the subject of the next essay, which was
delivered bv Miss Vivien L. Canfield of
Woodstock. Her contribution was a ver
itable storehouse of statistics and facts
relative to the progress of women in
America and in closing the young essay
ist urged upon her girl classmates their
imperative duty of grasping the mult
tudinous opportunities that are within
their reach.
Here the orchestra played a musica
interlude and then the annual debate
was in progress. 1 he question. Resolved,
That the I nited States should not have
a large standing army," was argued for
the affirmative bv Carl A. I.antz of Web-
sterville and the negative by (Jeorge A
Micpard of Boston, .Mas. I here were no
judges and if a decision wa retched by
the audience it was reserved. Messrs.
Mntz and Shenard shared alike their
generous portion of applause. Each de
bater presented a careful study of con
ditions in the I'nited States and signifi-
ant conclusions were reached on both
Miles.
In somewhat lighter vein was the es
say on "Slang of To-day," by William A.
(,'uinn of Dorchester, Mass., whose con
tribution to the closing exercises was
one of the most refreshing of its kind in
the Goddard commencement programs of
past vears. Mr. Quinn admitted to the
text of his esay a bundle of droll ex
amples in slang that evoked frequent
The orders for movement to the border
affect the first o.OOO guardsmen to be
mustered into the service in the central
department and the first ,j,0(Mi in the
western department. General Barry at
Chicago and General Bell at San Fran
Cisco, respective commanders of these de
partments, were directed to seHd the
quotas indicated as soon as their mus
ter is complete, selecting the fit units
to qualify, regardless of the branches ot
service to which thev ttelong. . Iteneral
Funston will select their destimrtion.
In his telegrams to the governors Sec
retary Baker asked how soon the quotas
asked for in the president s call would
be ready. He expects a reply immedi
ately giving the present status of mobil
ization in each state, about which the
department now is informed only in a
general way. He requested also that
each governor report again as soon as
his state's unit' are mobilized.
No orders "were sent to the eastern
or southern departments, official .indi
cating that the troops nearest the bor
der had been Selected as the first to go
because their transportation would re
quire least time and expense.
Burlington, June 23. The average
strength of the companies of the Ver
mont National Guard now mobilized at
the state camp ground near Fort Ethan
Allen is about 75 men. The company
with the largest quota of. enlisted men
was Company K. of Springfield with 11 '
men. Company H of. Montpelier had
the smallest number with, Oti men. Com
pany D of St. Johnsbury jiad 97 and
Company M of Burlington had. 91.
The last company, to arrive on the
grounds reached the. . reservation at 5
o'clock yesterday afternoon, while Com
panies C. and M of Burlington and G of
vvmooski were the rtrst, having -con
there early in the forenoon. Tents were
pitched during a heavy wind and in
amazingly short time considering the
handicap; and after the men had got lo
cated they were summoned forth by
mess call. Over 1,000 men spent the
night under canvass and were ready for
the routine of camp life this morning.
An innovation has- been made in the
method of camp administration this year
by the establishment of a patrol con
sisting of members of the guard, which
will operate in Winooski and Burlington.
I he primary object of the patrol is to
help the members of the regiment, but :
they will also conduct back to camp, any
member, found absent . after taps or
without permission and will be useful
in other ways. Six men will be detailed
for this work in Winooki and 12 in Bur- .
lington, and their headquarters will be
made at the armory of each place. The
members of the patrol will act in pairs '
while on duty.
LETTER FROM COi H.
Boys All Happy and Anxious to Leave
for the Border.
MADE PARTIAL RESTITUTION.
The following letter, written last night
y Private A. G. Edwards of Company H,
. N. G.. to his Barre friends, tells ot the
oings of the Vermont regiment in camp .
near rort Ethan Allen:
"Co. H arrived here at 2 o'clock. All
Itippy and very enthusiastic over their !
send-off which they received. All quar- j
ters were pitched and mess call sounds at j
6:30 o'clock. No one was allowed to j
leave quarters the first night and time
was spent by the various companies in '
sports, such a boxing, wrestling; also
quartet and trio singing. There is a j
brisk wind blowing and seems we are to f
have a cold night. The boys all seein to j
be anxious to leave here as soon as pos- .
sible for the bonier. Will write more :
later. A. G. Edwards."
TWO SEVERELY INJURED.
When Automobile Turned Over Thres
Times Three Slightly Hurt.
St. Albans. June 23- H. J. Preston and
laughter, Mr. Irving Stebbins, of Shel- '
don, are at the hospital and three others ,
went to their homes yesterday afternoon i
fter injuries had been attended at the I
hospital, following an accident near the
called dry bridge on Georgia road
shortly before noon, when an automobile
laughter. It was delivered with a fine re- L,nintv court vesterd.iv the case of State
card for histrionic effect end its author . . '.. . .i, ,..! ..s
gard for histrionic effect end its author
got a warm hand as he concluded his
the city yesterday, accompanied j homily against slang by advising all "to
Aliens parent. Mr. and Mrs. lent it out
owned and driven bv If H Inuer of
So Merton Watson Was Placed On Pro-xheld"n turned three somersaults.
bation After Pleading Guilty. The party w as going to the Woodmen's
St. Johnsbury, June 2X-!n Caledonia ?thcrmg at Essex .l.mc. .on. A woman
i.i, ,11, in i, ,ii nun lb ? (,, luau
I L. !. 1 1 . 1. jj . L -
disposed of I nuioire me inrn ouieietl sue
' , . ,idrove arro-a the road in the direction
vs. Merton Watson was
A bill to appropriate $2.K.v.ihi for the "Captain Boyd immediately dispat he.i
rrendents of federal volunteers and en-;a courier t- the iefe politico of the lit-
listed men of the National Guards mus-jtle village, advising him that me wers
held ve-terdav afternoon at 2 o'clrx-k I
I. , ' , , from ln late home. 22sl Itarra street, the j
services being attended bv manv friends
, r. , ifrom Williamstown. Northfield, West
We left C-sas t.r.n, les on Sunday j lu,rhn ,nl f M
morning, arriving outside ot tarriv.i r,;r ,.:, . ;
fesrly Wednesday morning. i . . . , ,, .
- . eenieterv and the tuners rro,es-ton u-ii
d one nf th lonc-ewt seen in ihe ,-iri- fsv
( rl I',.l,,...,.r ,t I ,,... L" o ,. ! !.:.. I,. ,h..ir. J V,. .,.. 4 1
" 1 -" .:......--..- ...-..... ,0f C),rre,.t,on,
u i up ir nnnip ui .oiiiuiriii. itucr inn i ni f4SJtvt. ana nfiwip with an oprnirp
The funeral of Angelo Umperti. whose ling f ,r a few dsvs with Dr. Allen's 1 and then Thomas E. Ma mdebeek of Roch-
desth oeturred Tuesday morning, was 1 lr,. her I)r F 1 Men. of Post Mi!!, ieter V If delivered n nntinn en.
titled, "A Plea of Movie." Mr. Mapple
bek recorded himself a favoring the
advancement of the moving pieture show
a an educational fai tor and brought to
light some intere-ting facts eoneerning
the development of the f inematograph
... . i j j i.. , .l " i .larove arro-a the road in the direction
Watson pleaded guilty to the charge of . , T .. . . . ,
, 1 ., ,. i l ,i . , 'of the ear. To avoid hitting her, Mr,
forgerv on s Hardwuk Iwnk and ),, , ... , ' ,.
. j. -..,.. r h-i." ; ..,.. Mower turned the car suddenly. Mr.
sentencedtoaveHranilBvnaltintnehou.se'., ,
tered in military centre was introduced
by Sen 4tor I ee of Marvland to-day and
referred to the commute on rnion.
Immediate action on hi resolution au
thorizing the president to draft into the
federal sertire the National Guardsmen
rg to tAe the oatlj under the new
on our way to Villa Ahumada.
After we had waited some time. Lieu
tenant Colonel Rivas rame out and
warned Captain P.yd that he moul-f Ut
ter turn hack, (aptain Itojd then ex
plained that he was in pursuit H -mie
number of year. The hearer were An-
TO-MORROW THE
LAST DAY OF FARE
REFUNDING SALE
after which Watson a
placed on probation. He his made par
tial restitution.
DAMACES OF JI.P75.
Were Awarded G. H. Roben Against Rye
jate Light and Power Co.
otith Bvrgate. June 2.1. The rae of
U. H
Preston ".tirTered severe injuries on the
head, cheft and ba,k. Mrs. Mehbins suf
fered injuries to her face, arm and legs.
Both are stifiering trom -hock. Mr. Mow
er' right col!arlsne was bp-ken. Two
others in the party ti?ered a severe
shaking up. Ir. E. J. Melville and Ar
thur Morton of this ity and W. R.
Wrght of .eorg:s. attended them.
Mr E. More and Duncan Trak of
Roben ag-imst the Pvegate Light !orth Jav. Me . vi-itel friend in tVie
bandi's whieb he had heard had kuted of We-t Per
- I industry in America
The even dv' co-operat ive fare-re-! Bv reason of the fa. I that she n
funding sale of Bane mrb.int . lo.e at 'awarded c ond honor for merit in schol- !nd I -wer company for failure to fur- ,'citv vlerd4T w hue on their war to via-
flrea t ani. Gui-eppe Tohuo. Viiferio M o'clock to-morrow. Saturfsv. night. arrtir Mis Elsie M. Welch of Eat t or- ! nih the power agreed upon ha Ken tt her deugh'er. Mrs. Mil Jori Sanders, of
VI . i i,., : t ; . t , , i -...i-j' r . . .. ... --.j:u-,-!-. ... it-
.i.uiikii. "im-nim i-'Tmin, riario'en-v ; IT v oti nave nirt air'i atau-i yours-ir mt h wa chosen to r.eiver the valerlKforv irien in mr i,i--ii'iiii niiinv court mi vv enters rie.
vas.""tina. Salvatore Natale. Amorg t he t of t he opjirt unit r t n come t Barre and j a,!-lie-. Her original esay w a of the ! eek and all t 'ne .x al gran te men ha v e t Artd V-n. who went to Detroit,
relative from out of ton were Nattl,have your fare paid, d not bt this f.nul purine of farewell and while it eon- ' n spend, ng a gooj rmrt of their time Mth. Isst tall tn work in the autom
mbroirii and diu.-'fer of Westerly, P. opprtunrty pass. itained many passages rahulated to hae there, either a witness or t-.,tefor. r.; a to-ie. arrived -n the ntr ti t
I. Angela lemi and Frank Iternaaeont 1 lerhant' week itt Par re prnmi to ; thfir efTeet on a group of student ah-u j The verdict aa reai-ied Thursav atter- ' msrn!r2 and w ill -iti. lis v a. at ton w it h
of NorCfeM and Chirks anl John ferni Ih one of the larjet in Imsine. trans- to leave the;r alma nater. there ma noon an! Mr. fit-hen was award'! dm- h peer. Mr. ant Mr. Al'ew O.sen,
ifed in the hist ry of the ntr.
niuh within to indicate that he cepart- of I.f75.
of ii!-'er Wah:rg1 a 'ret.
y
