FlMES
PAGES 1 TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO, MICHIGAN; JUNE 23. 1916.
NO. 13
THE OWO
Carranza's Order That U. S. Troops
Be Withdrawn is Refused-Militia
of Country Ordered to
Be in Readiness.
Battle at Carrizal Wednesday Re
sults in Killing of 12 Americans
-17 Taken Prisioners.
The entire country was aroused to intense excitement tho
past week by the demand of President Carranza of Mexico that
the United States troops sent to capture Villa and his bandit
followers bo withdrawn and tho refusal of this government to
accede to the demand and the consequent possibility that this
country might be compelled to send a large army to Mexico.
The state militia of all states were ordered to be in readiness to
go to the border and Thursday the National Guard of Missouri,
Kansas and Calif ornia were ordered to be ready for an immediate
start.
It is believed, however,
advisors will not percipitate a war but that an agreement will
be reached. ' ,
The news of possible war struck Owosso forcibly as Co. H
and the Infirmary, of the Michigan National Guard, of this city
were ordered to the new armory and have since been kept there
in uniform with three daily drills and details and guard duty
with crowds overy evening to watch the drill and with interest
created by the soldier boys appearing in anlform in all parts of
the city.
Orders 10,000 Guardsmen to Border
WASHINGTON, Juno 22. The first orders for sending to
the border National Guardsmen, called into the federal service
last Tuesday by President Wilson, went out from the war
department tonight. At the same time Secretary Baker sent
inquiries to the state governors that are expected to hasten
mobilization.
The orders for movement to tho border affect the first 5,000
Guardsmen to be mustered into the service in the central de
partment, and the first 5,000 in the western department. General
Barry at Chicago, and General Bell at San Francisco, respective
commanders of these departments, were directed to send the
quotas indicated as soon as their muster is complete, selecting
tho first units to qualify, regardless of the branches of service to
which they belong.
General Punston will select their destinations.
Militia Goinj? to Border
Washington, 1). C, June 22 ( Bul
letin. ) As fast as the different state
militia units cant be equipped they
will be sent to the border, Secretary
of War llaker stated following a con
ference wltli President Wilson on
Thursday. As to which would go
first and where they would lie assig
ned the secretary could not state.
They will bo distributed as quickly
ns possible and in the order in which
they make themselves ready, he said.
General Mills, head of the militia di
vision of the war department, is keep
ing in direct touch with tho organi
zations of the different units and is
leing advised as to the progress of
preparations for a movement.
Mexican Losses Large
El Paso, Tex., Juno 22. Twelve
Americans, including their command
er whose name is so far unknown,
were killed in the battle at Carrizal
Wednesday, Mexican Consul Garcia
announced Thursday. Seventeen
Americans were captured and the
Americans retreated, carrying oit aj
num!er of wounded, the consulate
said. The Mexicans lost fourteen
' killed and a numler of wounded.
Fort ideation Hill Passes
Washington, I). C, Juno 22. Tho
last big preparedness measure, the
fortification bill, carrying an appro
priation and authorization of $33,-
875,123 for coast defense and field
artillery, was iassed by the house on
Thursday by r vote of lfl."5 to 0.
Americans Leave Mexico
Mexico City, Mexico, June 22. A
special train carrying 1."0 Americans
left for Vera Cruz Thursday mom
ing.
Mexicans (ened Fire
F.l Paso, Tex., June 22 The Car
ranzistn troops ocned (Ire on the
I'nitcd States cavalry nt Carrizal on
War Minister Obregon's order, Gen
eral Gonzales, commandant at Juarez
announced Thursday. The latter
stated he received the message on
Thnrsday afternoon.
J II Inl M
that General Carranza andjhis
Co. II Thirty-Third light infantry
and the Infirmary, . Thirty-Second
light infantry, Michigan National
Guard, will leave 'Owosso at 5:45
o'clock Saturday morning over the
Michigan Central railroad for Gray
ling, to mobilize with other troops of
the state, subject to' the call of Gen
Funston for service on the Mexican
border. Captain J. O. Parker, com
manding officer of Co. H, received no
tice of the time of departure. Wednes
day morning.
All equipment of the two local di
visions will be loaded in a baggage
car Friday night. Two passenger
coaches will be required to transport
the troops from this city. The loca!
contingent will go to Bay City and
there continue the trip to Graylings
arriving on the state military rescrv
atlon at 1:40 o'clock Saturday after
noon. ,
With the receiving of the order by
Capt. Parker Wednesday morning
the military companies at the arm
ory were placed under even more
strict discipline than has been the
case heretofore. Sentinels were
placed In front of the armory, three
men with rifles pacing back and forth
throughout the day. The detail was
changed each hour.
' With the arrival of Private Ray
mond Stack of Co. II from Rochester,
Minn. Tuesday night, all but one
member of the local company has re
ported for duty. Stack has been em
ployed as a waiter In the Minnesota
city. The only remaining member
out of tho city Is Private Noyes of
Kansas City.. He wired that he would
report at Grayling early next week.
Everything is ready for the depart
ure of tho state troops from thifi
point. All of the equipment has been
packed and Is waiting to be trans
ported to the depot Friday night.
Interest In tho border situation
was crystal Ized Tuesday night
with tho publication of press dis
patches to the effect that General
Funston had called for about 63,000
militiamen for border duty. Al
though army officers believe that, the
New York and Illinois regiments will
bo tho first of the guard to see actlvol
IP
1?
uiyj
service it is expected that the "Boys
from Michigan," will be among those
called after the contingents from the
more largely populated states, have
been called out.
Captain J. O. Parker, commanding
Co. II, Thirty-Third Light Infantry,
Thursday morning received an order
from Col. Bersey in Lansing, which
asked that the local company of the
Michigan National Guard be recruit
ed to a war strength of 141 officers
and men. The strength of this com
pany is ninety officers and men at
present. This means that an add!
tional fifty men are required before
the troops leave for Grayling early
Saturday morning and a concerted
effort is being made on the part of
Guardsmen to secure the required
number. The infirmary now consist
ing tof twenty-one, including Captain
Hume and his men, needs three addi
tional recruits.
News of the reported killing of
forty American soldiers in Mexico
occasioned little excitement among
members of the company Thursday,
although it was pointed out that
border activity would hasten the call
ing of the Michigan men into the ser
vice. The guard detail Is still being
maintained at the armory while
Thursday a portion of the company's
baggage was removed to the Michi
gan Central tracks and placed in a
baggage car, preparatory to the trip
to Grayling, which will begin at 5:4E
o'clock Saturday morning, or one
half hour after the boys in uniform
leave the armory.
Improvement Association.
Fred W. Smith, president of the
Improvement association, has named
the following committees for the en
suing year:
Agricultural A. B. Cook, J. N.
McBride, Charles Cook, W. E. Payne
Albert Todd.
Transportation Fred Woodard,
James Rigley, Earl Hall, 'John Steck,
L. C. Hall.
Entertainment G. T. Campbell,
W. D. Whitehead, Calvin Bentley, C.
E. Rigley, Jr., James Zimmerman.
Good Roads Fred Welch, G. F.
Friegel, Albert Brittson, N. R. Walsh
Harry Parker.
Publicity L. II. Christian, J. J.
McDonald, L. H. Parker, Wm. Dow
ling, Arthur Byerly.
Civic J. C. Osburn, L. L. Conn, O.
L. Davis, J. II. Robbins, Chris. Rent
schler. Industrial H. B. Sturtevant, A. M
Bentley, D. M. Christian, W. E. Hall,
J. E. Ellis.
Membership H. K. White, Dr. G.
N. Finch, W. H. Van Sice, Herbert
Ilawcroft, J. Terbush.
Wholesale and Retail Harry
Smith, Claud Nutson, John Detwiler,
Roy Aberly, Harry Walsh.
Charity and Advertising Edward
Thome, Rolla Chase, W. R. Goodrich,
Thomas Hagen, A. E. Osmer.
High Praise for Chautauqua Program
Cleveland, Ohio, June 18, 1916
E. O. Dewey, Secretary,
Owosso, Mich:
Lakewood Chautauqua closed last
mgnt in a Diaze or glory with an
audiencfl of nearlv fmir thnnsnnrf tn
spito of rain
San Carlo company gave the great-:
est opera programme ever given in
Lakewood or Cleveland. N Audience
wildiy enthusiastic, singers and or-
chestra finest ever heard here; noth-
ing like it ever attempted in Chau-
tiufiu" before !
Tllfi U'holn RPVPn-dnva' nrmrmmmn
great in every way; people immensely'
nir.oi n,it. t0,kii i.ov n
... . .. ' .
main, i.anaon, Florentine Musicians.
metropolitan quartette and gave all "'V , ,u 6 ' . v W V ! which were met with hearty response
a solendid reccntion ami hpnHnc dentally, the past and chiefly the fu-' ' mei , n nea"y response
a spienuiu reception ana neanng. wooi, a nnnn ' Dv the audience, showed the untiring
Shall need a larger tent for next ' J J n Com" ce-, on he Dominican
year. Next year's season ticket sale ment e 1 or it brings you face to the school
three thousand dollars. I onThe tTZhoM o? ' " choS students presented a
The Junior Chautauqua a fine eaJ J0" a 0f sketches an vaudeville
turo and did good work. You cannot PorHps the most unlquo
pay too much for the course as all toxt h,ch 1 tn,n baa an important 1 fairyland cirnivtl stated bv
your patrons will surely be ple.d.(?'7M th,s stae ourj Z UwwSSll? '
Eugene IFlshcr, secretary. - ln Rev Fr. J J Sheehan of Carson
Ensign Hnry Sprague, U. S. Navy. 1 text and by way of exegesis will in- ZV Ucr" t'X
has been detached from the Rhode troduCe us to our theme. John was d - Ss ch
Wand and trRnfPrrd tn th WM.Mn ' Inspired to write to the seven church- pasJ"r 1 au' 8 cn""n: Prescnt"
lsiana ana transferred to the battleship n. ,n wfe-aed the diplomas. Rev. Sheehan sa d:
Tii!r.na ...Mtv. n v ,i.t , C9 ot Asia Minor and in these letters . . ,
Illinos. which will ba ned daring the ' iii. j , ."Everyone Is talking about educa-
summervand fall as a training ship for
civilians business and professional men 1
and others who wish the experience,
which will In part fit them for the
mioor nositlons in th navr In pa nf :
a call for additional officers for the
boats. It is a compliment to Enslcn
Sprague to be selected for this work. j
TTor'n a nuh. i . .
Harold A. Gordon has been appointed
as substitute mail carrier at the Owomo ;
post officH and began work this morn-.
Ing. He is at present the only substi-1
tute available for service as Clarence
McCall, who has done most of the sub- j
etitnte work for several years past, has
gone to Grayling with Co. U.
Summer School at Lincoln Building.
: The Lincoln school will be reop
ened on Monday, July 10, for a sum
mer school session of six weeks
which will be held expressly for de
linquent pupils. Any children of the
city schools from the third grade up
and Including the seventh will be ad
mitted to make up back subjects,
which they might have failed in dur
ing the past year.
Hangi Himself
Richard Crane, aged 89 years, a
farmer living near Duraud, hung him
self in his barn Tuesday afternoon! the
ajt being caused by despondency over
his inability to support his wife and
children. He visited a neighbor and
told him he was going home and beat
hla wife's braius out. She was warned
and watched him enter the barn and
later found him hanging from a rafter.
i Drunken Auto Driver Jailed,
ohn Waters of Owosso, was fined
2 and sent to the county jail for five
days, Tuesday, for driving an automo
bile while intoxicated. He had been at
Oakley and on his return ran his ma
chine into a buggy in which Floyd
Wlghtman was riding, throwing him
out and destroying the buggy. Waters
returned to Oakley and went to bed
with his boots on, where he was ar
rested by Under Sheriff Sproule and
brought to Corunna. Wlghtman was
slightly injured.
Dies After Operation.
Oscar Isamond, aged IS years of age,
died at the Miller hospital in this city,
Tuesday, following an operation per i
formed in the hope of saving his life
which had been despaired of as a result
of trouble in the neck and throat which
may have become poisoned. The yonng
man bad been employed by Edward
Barber at the Union lunch room, and
after becoming quite ill was taken to
Mr.; Barber's home and later co the
hospital. His father living near Oak
ley Was notified and the body taken to
the home where the , funeral was held
Thursday. . .
Masons Attend Divine Service.
Brothers of Owosso Lodge No. 81,
F. & A. M., to the number of about
one hundred, attended divine services
at the First Baptist church, Sunday
morning and listened to a most in
spiring and up-llftlng sermon by Rev.
Harvey A. Walte. The choir had pre
pared special music, which added not
a little to the impresslveness of the
services. Mrs. C. Rentschler sang
The Holy City with unusual power,
sweetness and sympathy.
v Returning to the lodge, Worship
ful Master C. C. Wright called the
brothers to order and a vote of ap-
preciatlon and thanks was extended .
to Rev. Walte and the singers for
the most helpful services of the day.
Baccalauerate Address.
The First M. E. church was crowd-
ed Sunday evening, when the other
churches of the city united in the an
nual union meeting to listen to the
baccalaureate sermon. Rev. Hartley
Cansfleld preached a strong sermon
and the choir furnished special music
A synopsis of the sermon follows:
Text: Rev. 111,2, "Hold that fast
which thou hast that no man take
tny Crown."
1 esteem it a great privilege to be
lnvited to p!"each tne baccalaureate
sermon to thIs- the larSest clas9
whlch nas In any one year been grad-
uaiea irom ine nigu scn001 OI uwos'
so And 1 des,ro to extend to you
my heartIest congratulations on the
success which has thus far crowned
' vmir wnrsr.
yUUT
What ou have done ,s a matter of
history; what you will be or do is
lnrpp v ft mntfpr nf rrmiPtnro Wo
- -2 '--i7;. i
sentlal to their success and In fact
for the success of the churches of er-
cry age since. Three of these church-
03 are censured, two receive com-
mrnrlntlnn for snmP tMnr nH rnJ
sure for others, and two receive un- fa,lh by those who do not under"
rr1 ixed praise. One cf these two wasiS anI . , ,
the church nt Philadelphia. It h ,orL n
done well. It had kept God's word.!03 of Chr,st' Go teach al",ia
h w ,fnin,r, rt., nhnrUan, TJ r,rtinA.MM.n.n.
had revealed element of trength.,r , , ,
wl for these reasons, and b wav of! Everybody is boosting for the Junior
reward a larger opportunity is given
lr. '
"Behold I have set before thco an
open door and no man can shut it.'.'
(Continued on page 7)
ROUSING FAREWELL
Will Be Given Co. H as It Starts for
State Camp at Graylir. ,
Owosso will turn out en masse Satur
day morning at 5 o'clock to escort Co
H to the Michigan Central train for
the start for the state camp at Grayling
and possibly for Mexico. The bund will
play, flags will be carried and the boys
cheered on their departure for what it
is hoped will be a vacation. It may be
a bard fight in a hot conntry.
POSTMASTERSHIP SETTLED
M. Kirk White Nominated by Pres.
Wilson Will Avsume Office Shortly
Well Qualified to Handle the
Business Satisfactory.
Henry Kirk Whit', editor of the
Press-American, is to be the next
postmaster of Owosso, his name having
been sent to the senate by Presideut
Wilson on Wednesday. While it had
been definitely known for a month past
that Mr. White was to be nominated
for the position there was still an un
certainty about the matter which gave
a ray of hope to other aspirants that
Henry Kirk White.
possibly at thj last moment something
might happen which would change the
intention of the "powers that be" and
give some one of them the place. But
it was not to be and the hope that
history might repeat itself Mr. White
having been disappointed twenty years
ago when he felt sure of winning
proved yain. The nomination was re-
ferred to the senate committee on post
offices and after due investigation a
favorable report will without question
be rendered, when confirmation will
follow and then upon filing his bond
and receiving his commission Mr. White
will assume the duties of postmaster.
The Times extends to Mr. White its
heartiest congratulations and best
wishes upon his good fortune, and trust
that his administration may be entirely
satisfactory to the public an exacting
pnblic, too, when it comes to the matter
of handling the mail. He has for many
long years fought the battles of the
Democratic party in the columns of his
paper-save that it is recorded that he
and one William Jennings Bryan had a
falling out in the campaign of 1896 and
White had the pleasure of assisting in
the defeat of the latter for the presi
dency beside doing personal work
which easily entitled him to the recog
nition which has now come to him.
That he will prove an obliging official
cannot be questioned.
St. Paul's School Commenoemont.
Standing room was at a premium
Tuesday night when the graduation
exercises and entertainment of St.
I Paul'3 school were held in the Fam
ily theatre.
The exercises and entertainment
are regarded by those who have wit
nessed similar school productions In
the past to be among the most pleas
ing of any ever presented in Owosso.
The efforts of the
school students.
"on these days and tho question nat-
u"y f J ? CatnolIc n
l u?" kav,n5 theIr own Parochial
' . ..
1 ne n"e?lln IS asked in gOOd
Chantanqna. The boys and girls are
lucky to have a Chautanqua they can
caJl lheir own. The Chautauqua ia too
good a thing to be kept for the old folks
alone. Owosso, July 915. I
Made from
Groam of Tartar
Derived from Granoo
J
FIFTY-NINE GRADUATES
Owosso High School Commencement
Attended by Many Fine Ad
dress by James Schermerhorn
Nearly two thousand residents of
Owosso and Shiawassee county visit
ed the First Baptist church, Wednes
day night, to attend the commence
ment exercises , of the 1916 class of"
the local high school.
Hon. James Schermerhorn, editor
of the Detroit Times, who delivered
the address, presented an address
which although out of the ordinary
for an occasion of that kind, was one
of the most intensely Interesting and
instructive of any heard here for
many a day. Sparkling with wit and
humor, the talk will stand out for
time to come as a most enjoyable one
The speaker described a visit
which he made last summer to the
western states, taking his audience
step by. step over the route from De
troit out through the middle western
states and on to California, thence to
Texas, and back again to Michigan.
Dnrinir hla address, the sneaker wal
warm in his praise of travel as an ed
ucator and upon several occasions de
nounced military preparedness as ad
verse to the teachings of the brother
hood of man. Among other things
ho said:
"Travel is a wonderful educator, If
we keep our eyes open while, we are
traveling. Only the educated mind
can know and appreciate the glories
of paying visits to the Bhrines of our
country. He who has been given the
advantage of an education, can delve
so much deeper, can see so much
clearer the beauties of the scenea
about him, than can he who has an
untutored mind.
"At Omaha begins the bow'of rack
et formed by your going arid coming,
route and with the exception of one
or two states the ellipsis shows that
the liquor traffic and restricted suf
frage have been left out unqualified
ly or in part.
"There is good news in this west
ward sweep of suffrage and prohi
bition for it proves that the sons
and daughters who went west are
bringing themselves up in the way
their parents should be going them
selves back east. The "wild and
woolly" challenges the sedate and
effete to make the men sober' and
tho women citizens.
"A thousand or more horses were
mobilizing on the hills just east of
Grand Island for service in the Rus
sian army. They know as much
about the cause that calls them to
the. front as the peasant soldiers.
"Did you ever join in that lusty
chorus of your primary school days.
'There's a'land of peace and plenty.
It's away out in the west.'
"It is still out there, plenteous in
frultfulngss and unscarred by war
save for the deep trenches the
shouters for preparedness have dug
across the brow of Patient For
bearance. "All the preparedness needed to
maintain tranquility along a frontier
a3 long as our 2,500 mile tennis
racket was the mutual good faith of
continental neighbors and the carry
ing of one toy warshlpeach on the
Great Lakes. "
"Put the teachers who taught us
that rousing song of the land of
peace and plenty and the comrades
whose voices cracked with ours in
(Continued on pare eight.)
Notice of Annual School Meeting..
The Annual School Meeting of the
Union School District of the City of
Owosso, for the election of two trustees
for full term and the transaction of
puch other business as may lawfully
come up, will be held at the Lincoln
School In the City of Owopso. Jnlv 10,
at 8 o'clock P. M. The polli will be
open for election of Trustees from 2 to
8 o'clock. ,
Dated June 24, 191G.
W. R. Goodrich,
Sec. Board of Education. ;
