'FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
1
Etmting
UMiger
MIGHT
EXTRA
n
YOL. IH.-NO. 28
RUSSIAN ARMIES
AND ITALIANS MAY
SAVE RUMANIANS
tjalicia, Volhynia and Isonzo
Attack3 Designed to
Halt Teutons
BGIN TO SHOW RESULTS
I
fcuBtro-Germans Checked Ex
cept at One Point, Bucharest
Reports
-
t BSBLIN, Oct. 16. British troops
Mtetratcd first-lino Gcftnan trenches
iMrtKeast of Guedccourt in a continua
tion ef the violent struggle north 'of
the Sommc yesterday, but were driven
t by a German counter-attack, it was
eUtly announced today.
West of Sallly the French attacked,
fcat were driven back.
Russia and Italy have joined hands
Id an effort to weaken the Teuton pres
aweBgainst Rumania. Following the
renewal of the Italian oftcnslvo tho
Simians nro making violent attacks in
Gl!cla and Volhynia. Dispatches from
Fetrograd today dwelt upon tho fierco
MH of the fighting in the Carpathians
aed on the Stokhod River front in
.Volhynia.
The effect of this double drivo is to
prevent tho Austro-Gcrmans from send
ing reinforcements to tho armies of
Ten Falkcnhayn and von Mackensen
tad to compel tho Teutons, if possible,
to movo troops from tho Transylvanian
and Dobrudja theaters of war to meet
the new pressure.
The resumption of tho drives toward
Xeaubcrg by the Russians and Trieste'
by tho Italians is already showing remits.
Bucharest reports that the Austro-
pertnan armies aro being held up on tho
' frontier except at ono point, where von
blslkenhayn's men wero able, to pene-
ate six miles into Rumania.
If The battlo has developed near R,ucaru,
vhere desperate efforts aro being made
. Tsy tho Rumanians to force back the
Teutons, In Dobrudja the roar of battle
it heard 'all along theiJ)anube,vltypji
Juckensen'o hosts aro making a tre
mendous, effort to cross tho river, but
;. re. being hold fty the Rumanian forces.
At many points long-range artillery
wteia are taking placo across the
stream.
"Fighting ,s in progress all along the
Vne in Macedonia. The Bulgarians have
fcade unavailing efforts during the last
. ferty-cight hours to recapture ground
lest to the Sorbians, losing heavily.
British artillery is pounding the impor
tant Greek city of Seres, which is held
By the Bulgars.
French troops penetrated tho Ger
man defenses in Sailly-Sailliscl, north-
h east of Combles, last night, occupying
ivuDuo uii uiu uugu ui. mo uupuuruc
Feronno 'road, it was officially an
nounced by Paris today, Tho Germans
Violently counter-attacked, and tho bat
tie was still going on early today.
German troops on tho Somme front
ttde a powerful effort to win back
ma of their lost ground from the
British last night, but failed. Tho Lon
4en War Office, in an official statement
today, said that tho Germans attacked
m the vicinity of Schwaben redoubt, on
tbe Thlepvul-Courcellette line, but were
Nr-uWt with heavy Josses. Tho Brit-
k and French are again attacking in
rnrLADELPmA, Monday, October ig, ioig
CertiisnT, ltie, it tni Pciuo Ltrcn Counm
PBIOB ONB caWTl
Continued on Fate Four, Column Ono
THE WEATHER
WEATHER FORECAST
Pti on a jtu dfocoverv in solar phvlct l
WflLIS h. UOORU and W. F. fJiKOTIIERS.
Forecast for Pennsylvania) Sunday, Oc
Jetr, to Monday, October The open.
JW days of the week, will have moderate
emperatures and rain.
Tudy, October 24, to Thursday, Oc-
z ;. "' " " muveraeni win qear me
"ther by Tuesday, "and there will be
wOOta XOr twn n ,hM. a.
t5'ity' O03" . and Saturday, October
w-The week will close with showers.
a L. ,tnr' "weather movements dues
hw!:J?ov.fm'nt J du l0 develop n In
It ii . 7. Vll19 "Mates October 24, will
I 2, 2lh" rooVlMnnt. generally united
,, -T - v HJraBl, pTOteaCUBg
JTTl'r"1 " e uewfter 27, and Js
:, , v T-. "'"" "iw n preceding move-
W til E""BK fr and eool weather
ES..? twe-thrd of the eeuatry,
- - moni ih mo aaviern
" OOVMKNMMNT FORECAST
I tm, . -"," in'in; jiii
Z? ?r frmwid by Wr 2-
Hntktrft, wM.
""" KirKS WIMt VHAMam
IPHWUtWW AT BAG MHt
ELLIS FRIQAR ARRAIGNED
Tleads Not Guilty to Charge of Mur
dering Roland in the
Park
Kills D. Prljar, who shot and killed Ed
ward Botand In Falrmount rark last
August, was today brought before Judge
Monaghan in the Court of Oyer and Ter
miner, and formally arraigned on the In
dictments charging him wilh the killing of
Boland The defendant was dressed In a
stylishly cut dark brown suit and carried a
dark green felt hat In his hand. The. cool
manner that has marked his demeanor In
alt preIous hearings of his case was still
maintained.
'To this Indictment, how say you, guilty
or not snlltyr Crier Levi Hart asked
Frlgar, after reading the charge named In
the bill.
".Vol gxillty," replied the defendant
"Pleading not guilty, how will you be
trledr was next asked the defendant.
"By God and my country," was the
formal answer glen by Frlgar at the In
struction of his counsel, Congressman John
n. K. Scott, who stood by his side during
the arraignment After this formaJlty.
Frlgar was taken back to Aloyamenslng
prison to await trial. As yet no date has
been fixed for the hearing of the case.
WILL GREET SECOND ARTILLERY
Arrangements for Welcome Include
Drawing of Equipment by 1100
Phila. Horses and Mules
Kleen hundred Philadelphia horses and
mules wilt draw the Runs and equipment of
the Second Pennsyhanla Artillery In the
parade that wilt bo held when the regiment
returns to this city.
Arrangements were made today with
Charles Hall, secretary of the councllmanlo
committee In charge of welcoming home
coming troops, by Lieutenant .Bobert W.
King, of the Second Regiment, who Is home
on a twenty-two-day leave of absence.
Police and draft horses will be supplied by
patriotic citizens to replace the Government
animals which the regiment will leave be
hind at Kl Paso when It entrains for home
the middle or end of next month.
On the return of the Second Regiment,
which left Philadelphia as an Infantry
command, the city wilt witness the only full
artillery regiment to be supplied by one
city. In single ranks the regiment stretches
more than Ave miles, with Its twenty-four
4.7 howitzers, forty-eight caissons and fifty
wagons.
A new set of battle streamers for the
regimental standard wilt be presented to
Lieutenant King for the regiment by the
Second Regiment Old Guard, Cotonet
Duckett Harman commanding, at the Sec
ond Regiment armory, tomorrow .night
.. J6uuf,l-JL ' -L-i i-.1.-..'.- .,- At
Third to Muster Out Wednesday
omcers of. the Third Regiment are work
ing twelve hours a day to get things In
shape so that the SOO men of the Third may
be mustered out of the Federal service
Wednesday. Colonel Qeorgo B. Kemp, com
manding officer, said today that everybody
Is delighted because the men all came back
In such good physical condition, and Major
Frederick L. Macy, U. S. A., who wilt ex
amine each man, said he never knew an
assignment to do so much good for the men
before. When they are mustered out the
nien will be paid. It will take about $40,000.
TWO AUTO VICTIMS
DIE; ONE, A CHILD, AS
" SHE OFFERS PRAYER
UMT9T-4
t-4jfc"
y-i
r
c
-9-"j :
-.
Girl's Family Had Expected Re
covery, but She Realized Con
f dition and Clasped Hands
in Supplication
CONTRACTdR ALSO VICTIM
Two automobile victims died today, one a
schoolgirl whom death overtook at her
home while her hands werefolded In prayer.
The other, a man slxty-three years old, died
In St Timothy's Hospital. They werej
Ethel Hill, eight yearn old, 819 North
Forty-first street
James King, sixty-three years old, 4S
nidge avenue, Roxborough.
The family of the little girl expected
her to recover, but the. child herself realized
her condition and an hpur before her death
palled her parents and, her little brothers
and sisters to her bedside. When Dr. W.
O. Hlggste, the physician, pronounced the
little one dead, her tiny fingers were still
clasped together.
HURT W THE WAY TO SCHOOL
On Thursday morning Ethel waa on her
way to the Kendrlck school, at Thirty
eighth and Wrren streets. She kissed her
mother good-by and, meeting several little
companions, ran toward the sofcoolhouse.
Hear Thirty-eighth street and Powelton
avenue the groupof children beeame con
fused hi the heavy trams of wageos and
motorcars.
The other youngsters reached the street
safely. An automeWJe drive, by J. Bdwln
WeTgman, of mi Norjh ghth street had
ease narrowly mlesed hitting MM. But
Jh the whirl "t " ' walked Into
Its path aw suffered we.rett- slight Jr.-
Juries.
'With a ptysWan Jn attendanee she was
aUewed to leave the Presbytectan Heepltal,
as her e was net considered aertoue-
wMM UsTwteW.
Ktag, a eomt eeeUfoeter, wa atrwek n
the nlM e gsflfrber If, by mi mi.
LI)Mlr as he wm aUghttmr fMW s. setter
oar at Btdtt aveu and Veustae trvt
, unions r driver, OomeiUkt Dsusafcerr,
Mi North Thirty-eight trM. Is under
11M4V tail
J
IflH
90,000 MUNITIONS
WORKERS PILE UP
KAISER'S SUPPLY
ii. i- ,.. . 4
20,000 This Week Join 70,000
Making Shells and Guns
at Essen
RHINE VALLEY HUMS
Dense Smoke From Plants Suf
ficient to Protect Towns
From Air Raids
AMBASSADOR SATO
New Japanese Envoy announces
his country is ready to forget tho
California land law controversy.
JAPAN WILL "FORGET"
CALIFORNIA LAND TUT
WITH U.S., ENVOY SAYS
Ready in Every Possible Way to
Demonstrate Her Friendship
for America, New Ambas
sador Asserts
STANDS BY IMMIGRANTS
WASHINGTON. Oct 16. The new re
glme In Japan Is preparing to "forget"
the controversy over the California law for
bidding Japanese citizens to own land In
that State. Ambassador Sato, the Japanese
diplomatic representative here, made this
plain today In an Interview In which he also
expressed as his opinion that Japan would In
eyery possible way demonstrate her friend
ship to the United States.
This statement 18 Interpreted by students
of the situation In the T"ar East to remove,
for the present at least one of the largest
under-thq-surface causes for friction which
haa Jeopardljc4jretaton btwemV.the,
united states and Japan.
"We realize In Japan the constitutional
restriction which preents the Federal Gov
ernment from Interfering with the legisla
tes enactments of a single State," the
Ambassador said. "In consequence, wa
shall 'forget' the controversy altogether."
The new Ambassador will, however, press
the protesagalnst the alleged Inclusion In
the Burnett Immigration, bill to come be
fore the Senate next December of the Jap
anese as among the "Inferior" Tacea that
cannot enter America. Ambassador Chinda,
predecessor of the present diplomatic repre
sentative of the Toklo Government, twice
protested to the President against the por
tion of the Burnett bill understood to pre
sent, by Inference and In a roundabout fash
ion, the naturalization of Japanese.
"My Government Is convinced that the
Burnett law, while it makes no direct men
tion of the Japanese," Ambassador Sato
said, "Is designed to prevent the naturaliza
tion of Japanese citizens In this country.
Against such legislation I shall continue
to protest iroweer, that matter la not
pressing, because Congress Is not In ses
sion now and nothing Immediate can be
done."
The Ambassador expects to go to Shadow
Lawn shortly, possibly the latter part of
this week, to call upon the President for
mally and present his credentials. He has
already presented his credentials to the
Secretary of State.
HIS FAMILY AND PETS
SAFE, HE DIES IN FIRE
300-Pound Cafe Proprietor Be
comes Wedged in Window
and Perishes
By CAHL V. ACKERMAN
ESSEN, Geimany, Oct 16. Twenty
thousand new workers this week will Join
the force of "0,000 aires ly emploed at
the Great Krupp gun works In the gigantic
task of turnliig out shells and guns to feed
the German atmles.
The addition of this huge force Is one
step In' the course of Germany's renewed ef
forts to win the war, and Is taking place
under the direction of KHM Marshal on
lllndenburg, new chief of steff.
Many skilled workmen nro being recalled
from the front to old In speeding up the
production of war supplier, and barracks
are being built hero to house them.
VON IIINDEnUltO'S INFLUENCE
From conxcmaions with Krupp directors,
with August Thyssen. "he "Carnegie of Ger
many," and other Industrial leaders, three
facts become apparent regarding the Ger
man campaign since on lllndenburg as
sumed leadership:
First Germany plans to maintain
her supremacy In the artillery branch
of warfaro by Increasing the supply of
guns and ammunition.
Second. Ily renewed submarine ef
forts she plans to stop- contraband
going to England from neutral Euro
pean countries, to halt ammunition
shipments from America to England
and to stop Canadlnn transports from
carrying troops to Europe.
Third. By an offensive against Itu.v
la and Itumanla. while maintaining
an Iron wall defenslo In tho west,
she plans to bring England between
the jaws of von Hlndenburg's military
vise and pinch her until she makes
peace.
Krupp's may be said to be getting a
second wind. Industries throughout the
entire Rhine and Ttuhr alleys, where shells
roll out weekly by the millions, are pre
paring the army for the final stretch. A
visit to the great plants here give one an
Impression of the gigantic plans Germany
is making.
SMOKE SAVES TOOM Am ItAIDS
Essen now feels so secure against pos
sible air raids that the anti-aircraft guns
have been removed. The defense of the
'$iSmTSfifi?SS5'Sl
chimneys night and day forms a thick cloud
over the entire Ithlne and Ruhr Valleys,
making It Impossible for aeroplanes to dis
tinguish between Dulsberg, Muelhelm and
Essen, though miles separate the cities. In
the latest Allied raid three children were
killed and the roof knocked on one house
near Essen, but the Krupp establishments
were not touched.
The Krupp fsctorles are so enormous
and the machinery so great that workmen
look like dwarfs. The women workers.
The giant proportions and the bravery
of Frank 'J. Margwarth cost him hs life
early today 4n' a $2000 fire that wrecked
bis cafe and home at 110 East Allegheny
avenue.
Margwarth, who weighed nearly 100
pounds, remained In the burning building
until satisfied that his wife, child, pet
monkey and canary bird had been rescued,
and then, overcome by smoke, became
wedged In the. second-story w'ndoir through
which flreaten attempted to pull him. When
he waa extricated ,he had Inhaled flames
and died while being taken to the Kpteeepel
Hospital. He wm fifty-three years old.
The Margwarth family, steeping on the
seoend floor, discovered the fire about
4: JO a'eieek. Mr. Ftorenee Margwarth,
the wife, was awakened by smoke whleh
poured up from the 'summer garden and
oafe below. feUte aad her husband groped
tbefr way to a window, where Margwarth
fired Ma revolver to wmmen aid.
policeman WUMam Parker, living- at 17
Bast WUhart street, overtortttn the Marg
warth heme, was Browsed and he and other
ftelcMMfa reeetted. Mm. Mawartfc and
eigfet-year-AM Frederick Mtu-gwarta with a
ladefer. t They wirT jiartlr overcome fcr
amok and1 were given medio! treatmeeU
at a neighbor1 home. Iburcararth also
hrxtod sjet aemhey a a mv WH
I" i Ael . AiJit-L1'" " warn
Centlnned en Tate Teiir. Column ror
RICH GAMBLING HOUSE
CLOSED WHEN IT USES
PROFESSIONAL DEALER
Nineteenth Century Club, Oper
ating Under Charter of Old
Willard Republican Organ
ization, Under Police Ban
KENNY GOT HIS ORDERS
Habitues of the Nineteenth Century Club,
1005 Sansom street as well as politicians,
are wondering what brought about the ac
tion of the police In quarantining the place.
Lieutenant of Police Jeffries, who estab
lished the quarantine, said the orders came
from Captain of Police Nicholas J. Kenny.
Captain Kenny said his orders came from
tho Department of Publlo Safety,
But the reason ascribed Is what puzzles
some of the habitues, who thought they
were well enough acquainted with 'the
operators of the club to "get the dope on It
right" "the dope" being that It was sound
ly backed politically and "protected." They
thought It could not be quarantined wlthr
out some notorious reason, and the reason
for the quarantine has come out that the
club had "a professional dealer."
Captain Kenny says there la a ruling of
tho Department of Publlo Safety prohibit
ing: a chartered club from operating card
table with a professional dealer. Captain
Kenny, accompanied by Policeman John
Bigger, went to the club Saturday night
and recognUed the dealer as a professional J
whereupor) be ordered every man from 'the
place, The dub will remain quarantined,
Captain, Kenny says, until "it assure the
de-mrtmefit of Its good faith."
Habitue and polltlelanel are wondering
What the captain mean by the oiub'a
"assuring the department e-f Its good faith."
ORIGINAL MBMBHRS DEAD
They admit that the Nineteenth Century
Club I operating under a charter, but they
ay 0wt tke.oharter J that of the WIHerd
Kejmfelloan Club, whleh was formerly the
name of the present stub, and 'that the
eiufe I new eyeraiMg under a, abarter of
1MI. Moo of the met enneirnjl m the
ISM starter, It la , m mjw living.
Ne eMrter at all adorn the wUs the
Nfaeeteeoth Century Clufc, Indeed, ahewt
nil h aarnmenU the wneU have are a
few sneered rin et sheen band at
WMMiyrUti v
QUICK NEWS
KENTUCKY MOB HANGS TWO NEGROES
PADUCAH, Ky Oct. 10. Frank Ktnlcy, i nefero, Identified by
Mrs. Etta Rose ns the man who attacked her last Trldny, nnd Jesse
Tliornhlll, another negro, who entd ho would have done the Eivme
thing-, were taken from jail by n inob of SOOO men today nnd hanged.
Their bodies were burned.
STRIKERS LOSE APPEAL TO U. S. COURT
WASHINGTON, Oct. 10. The Supremo Court today refused ta
review tho cases In which Trnuk L. Lcdvlnkn, James Oats, Hiram It.
Stephens nnd Tnnuy Sullens, of tho United Ml no Workers of America,
veto convicted In West Virginia of contempt of court for ignoring a
court iujuacUeu ognlnst 'Intciferonce by strikers with employing
coal companies during tho West Virginia coal strike.
COTTON SELLS AT HIGHEST PRICE SINCE CIVIL WAR
NEW YOKK, Oct. 10. Cotton sold 'today for July delivery
crossed the elghtcen-cent mark, tho highest price since the Civil War.
Other futuro deliveries were taken at big ndvtuices also. Tho upturn
was duo"" to heavy bull support.
TODAY'S RACWG RESULTS
rirst Laurel lace, maiden 2-yenr-olds, 0 furolngs Courtship,
1M, Byrne, ?4.00, ?3.20, ?2.40, won; First Balot, 111, Mctcnlf, 91.00,
?3.00, second; Sea Wave, 111, Keogh, ?3.00, third. Time, 1.13 3-5.
Second Lnurel race, l-ycnr-olds nnd up, stceplechnse, about 2
miles Frljolee, 137, Walker, $20.40, $12.30, ?0.00, won; Cynosure,
131), Clnrkk, $1H.30, $7.20, second; Chevron, 130, Noc, $0.10, thhd.
Time, a.r3.
First Windsor nce, purse $C00, 3-ycar-olds nnd up, selling, (I
fui longs Exmer, 111, Gourley, $20.80, $7.80, $4.80, won; Vivian S.
100, Dominlck, $0.20', $5.10, accond; Dorothy Carllu, 105, Clavcij
$1.30, third. Time, 1.10.
RIGIDD0PEACT
URGEDTOCURB
MENACINGEVH
Probers Find Habtt
nr,v-iiafovc. Qfort r
and City
USE NOT CONFINED
TO THE TENDERLOItf
Institution for Inebriat
Asked as Best Means to
Effect Cures
FINE FOR LAW BREAKERS
m
w.
HIGHER RAIL RATE ON CANNED GOODS FROM CALIFORNIA
WASHINGTON, Oct. 16. An nil-rail rate at least fle cents per hundred pounds
higher than the present rall-and water rate was ordered today by the Interstate
Commerco Commission on shipments of beuns, canned goods, barley and dried
fruits from Oakland, San Francisco, ltedondo and San DIcro, Cnl., to Charleston,
Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York and Boston via the Atchison, Topcka nnd Santa
Fe and tho Western Pacific Railways. Most of this trnfllc has been moved via
Galveston and shipped by water to eastern ports.
i
RUSSIAN AMMUNITION SHIP SUNK BY U-BOAT
BEHL1N, Oct, IB, The Ilusslan ammunition ship Blsxilla, from Brest to
Archangel, has been sunk by a German submarine, Bays a dispatch from Chris
tlana to tt Oversells NewCiArrcnny today. Tho Blstrlta was n vessel of 388$ tpos..
j----" Sttmmriri-LZ. ,, ir-1 Tjr . . -
11 ALLIED PLANES LOST IN MONTH, BERLIN SAYS
BUIthiN, Oct. to S vcnty-four Allied aeroplanes, of which twenty-one were
French nnd flfty-threo English, were allot down and fell lnto German hands during
tho month of SepteQibei', it was Kcmlolllclully stated today.
MAY BURY AMERICA AVIATOR IN FRANCE
PARIS, Oct. 16. Arrangements wore begun by relatives today for the funeral
of Sergeant Major Norman Brince, the American member of the French air corps
who died on Sunday from Injuries In an accident. The body may be burled In
France. Frederick Prince, a brother, was at tho bedside when the wounded aviator
died. From tho meager reports rcceled hero it is believed that Prince was
flying behind the French lines when he recoUed his fatal Injuries. Both legs wero
broken and there ero Interim! injuries.
EIGHT-HOUR DAY FOR 12,000 SHOE WORKERS
BINGHAMTON, N. Y Oct, 16. Bight houis work with ten hours pay will be
the rule In the Bndlcott & Johnson shoe plant, the largost in tho world, after Nt
vember 1, Members of tho firm, Republicans, announced today they would support
President Wilson for re-election. Twelve thousand workers are benefited by
the change.
U. S. DIPLOMAT CONFIRMS ATROCITY, DISPATCH SAYS
LONDON, Oct. 16. A dispatch from Bucharest says that Secretary Andrews,
of the United States Embassy, confirms the report that German aviators dropped
bombs on Rumanian soil containing, poison and epidemic-spreading1 substances.
AMERICAN AMBULANCE SECTION LEAVES FOR SALONICA
LONDON, Oct. 16. -A dispatch from Paris today states that an American am
bulance section, under command of Lovering Hill, of New York, has left for Balonlca
to help care for tho wounded Allied soldiers. Tho sectlpn consists of thirty-one
ambulances, two supply cars and twenty-fhe volunteers.
ALLIANCE OF U. S. WITH ENTENTE URGED
PARIS, Oct. 16. A Pan-Atlantlo alliance between tho United States and the
Entente Powers is urged by James Ilaxcn Hyde, an American capitalist, who has
been living in Paris for a number of years. Mr. Hyde, in a statement published
today, spoke strongly in favor of an agreement for both political and commercial
reasons. At the same time ho warned the United States that she Would suffer
economic exclusion after tho war if Germany is favored in any way.
JAPAN DENIES PROTEST ON AMERICANS
TOKIO, Oct. 16, Japanese newspapers assert that Russia, Great Britain and
France have protested against the signing of n contract between tre Chinese Govern
ment and the Sterna-Carey Company, of St. Paul, for the building of a railroad in
China, asserting that such action would be a violation of previous agreements with
these Powers. Japaneso officials declare that no protest has yet been lodged by
Japan with the Chinese Government against the American railroad project,
THANKSGIVING DAY SET FOR NOVEMBER 30 THIS YEAR
LONG BRANCH, N. J., Oct. 1. Thanksgiving Day will be on the last Thurs
day in Not ember, as usual, which means that it will fall on the last day of next
month. Suggestions have beeri mado that in view of the fact that the feast day ts
coming so close to Christmas this year President Wilson should designate Novem
ber 2J as tho official date. It was learned today however, that the President Would
name Not ember' 90 as the date in his proclamation.
PENN FOOTBALL TEAM FOR HUGHES 20 TO 5
Members of the University of Pennsylvania feetbaH tm demonstrated their
choice for President In the coming eleatlon by a straw vote taken at the training
house, when they gve Hughes 0 votes tp President Wllei)'s t, A straw vote of
the entire student body, numbering mere tha 700, Wan today. The pemflg ptaee
is at the oKlee of the Pennsylvania the college da1y en WeedtarwS avetwc, abeve
Thirty-fourth street. ,
BATTLB6HIP ARIZONA TO GO INTO COMMISSION
KBW TQRK, Oet. H, TUe myerdraadaawt t JAHair vril w U Trnnunfr
ittt at tew JHsaeMm Wavy Yt tomrfw. The Nramy. WW Inniwds Hag nUw
a4 Um i-MdfaMT erf erdei-s,
FOUR-YIAR-OLD BOY DWi-OCS WXJSKYt WIS
lfour-verM Tow Harts tied tetoy at Us TrelakteN Hoes) Mm drUM
s4sff9Tsaw
rJsVsKlssW.
"OB' vjMgsiB
1 bliH
SSSBBBBBB. ' M SSSSSSSSH
t"
L. .
EDWARD DOK e
Chairman of the Philadelphia nar
cotic drug committee, which recom
mends drastic measures in dealing
with the drug evil.
Drastto measures for the curbing of the
narcotic drug eit In Pennsylvania are rec
ommended In a report issued today7 by the
Philadelphia nnrcotla drug Committee' wMcf
has been investigating? conditions n .this
city since the fall of 1916, .
The committee recommends first that th
filAtn riravlffn nn adenuktA Inatttlltloik Amp
-thej car. and Ii Ii (im'f ill 11' fll HHlliii' J
ondly, the committee urges that, a mat
law be enacted which will curb thtfaetlWtfes
of unscrupulous physicians, druggists, fresV
piers and others who Illicitly dispense )
quantities of narcotlo drugs. The reeetw
mendatlons In full follow:
First. That the Commonwealth make
provision for the odriuato and efficient
treatment of drug Inebriates. The bast ,
results n the treatment or drag aMUta
are reported whero there are avattaMe
friclllttes for after-care following a
period of hospital treatment. The
State farm colonies or institutions pro
vide this kind of care. Therefore re
parly building and completion of the
Pennsylvania Institution for Inebriates
for which a alto was selected and -proved
by Governor Toner, but no ap
propriation for its purchase made if
the Legislature of 1916 Is urgent, '&
cial provision for the drug ln)rrle
who differs essentially from the -tips
hollc, should be considered In the, plaits
for this Institution. , - t
Second, That the Legislature of, Uss
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania sfeewM
give to the people of the Commonwealth
a law that will make possible toeee
strict control of tho manufacture, sata
and use of opium, coca and their, de
rivatives, and to cover those featurei
of the misuse of drugs pov covered, sjj
the Federal law. Upon, this basis th
act suggested In the report. Is, ogereA
and recommended. .- ,
THE ARCHIiR ACT
The act referred to was drawn byifa
Archer, a former chief deputy in the.Jatttv
nal Revenue Department. This aotvyns
make It unlawful for physicians rto a
the treatment of drug fiends unteas" I
.submitted a record of their ease tf
Board of Health, and It makes'
of narcotic drugs lawful only under
tlohs prescribed by the act '
In regord to physicians, the act resist
Provided That If any physloUn de
sires to undertake In good faith Use
cure of a known habitual user of. said
drugs, he shall make a personal as
amlnatlon of such case and report the
same In writing to the proper officer of
the Hoard of Health of the .county 1
which he resides and practices, togeebe
with the date of starting such treat
ment and the amount and nature ot Um
drug dispensed or preeerlbed lit th
first treatment and the result of aatf
treatment when such patient leave hit r
care.
The act deals with ponaeselon of jUBj
as follows: "That it shaH be ualawlul tmt
any person whatsoever to have la bis soe
ssk)li or wider W eontret any ef Usl
aforesaid draw esoept kt pursuaoce to
written oresc, iii r i arm.
tkn of thW aet, if fc- wtrswjytsy to, the j
scrlption oXfptiysif'Mii wm uu jr
the same'let t4 faitti." T
auction live pe-svpes Usat.aay ;
vletates or talis U semply with i
requirement (, the aet sfcaH ea i
be Ad -et mote tha'a ttHt I
pfiwMMd aot mefe thae sve yearn, i
M IH swuww t um swan.
Kw the shHe dtve; seours he i
JjjiJfj Ttitn Prim
C4nt KdUi
fUC rAQM 15 the Kvutniq J
J MprtttU by permission j
ljmmm pme contest cdiuj
IhTsaei ta tiMt Bewspsaier
JLTaJTJU
, JU iMkeUd. m
