he
THE WEATHER l-ORECAST.
Local rain to-day; to-morrow fair and
cooler; moderate, westerly winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 59; lowest, 41.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page t.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 46.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1916. Copyright, 191, tiy the Sun matin and Publtthtnp A$,otfaUo.
ONE CENT
In Greater New York,
Jersey City and Newark.
11 sen here
TWO CUNTS.
Stilt
HUGHES GAINING;
PLANS A FOURTH
WESTERN TOUR
Tentative Arrangements
Made for Him to Visit
Ohio and Indiana.
HIS CAMPAIGNING
LNTHEASES IN VIGOR
Nominee Believed to Have
Good Chance of Carry
ing Missouri.
WINS POPULARITY
BY HIS PERSONALITY
Of Five States He Visited
Last Week He May Cap
ture Three.
Lincoln, Neb., Oct. 15. On a dark
ind rainy Sunday Mr. Hughes Is rest
ing In V. J. Bran's home town, where
even the movies are padlocked and the
Elks are denied their customary re
freshment. Words cannot picture the
e,latentM, the sleepy calm of a Ne
traska week end.
Hut the itepun!l:an managers are on
the alert. A fourth Western tour has
been tentatively arranged for Mr.
Hushes. After sneaking In Hoston.
l'nivldencc and Hartfordon October 2
he will strike back Into the middle West
lor tuo busy days In southern Indiana,
and rhaps a day or so In Ohio.
Time and tranquillity permit a sur
rey of the first half of Hughes's third I
Western tour with a review of the po- .
litlral trend lu the five States he has I
vllted: Maryland, West Virginia. Ken-
tucky, Missouri (fringing the solid i
South) and Nebraska. i
muai iiiruiicv iiuprcvaiuu gjnineu .
by the newspaper writers that have i
crompamrd the Itepubllcan candidate
through these States In the last week
I that there have been Ih that period
definite, simultaneous indications that
he li growing In popular favor. There
ti been a palpable feeling, though not
always easy to analyze, that Mr.
Hushes In gaining strength with the
voters In States where prognostlcators
rrd given him scarcely an even chnnce.
It has been Impossible to escape the
roncluln that something has occurred
to his gicat advantage.
Kllecf
There is
Correspondents.
recognized tendency on
the t,art of correspondent!! tiavclling
with candidates who draw enormous
crowds and who frequently stir their
uiince' to emotional displays to con
fuse public curiosity with public favor,
to become Infected unconsciously with
the natural optimism of the candidate
hlmtelf and so misread the signs along
the political highways. The correspondent-
with Mr. Hughes have sought de
Herately to minimize the suggestions
ryiieri! by masses of people and clam
orous cheers, have rejected the habitual
ell carry everything predictions of
i-c.il iiepuimcan leuuers anu nave mane
It a point to obtain and to ketp In mind
tne predictions of local Democratic j
''"''i".
The result of all this balancing and 1
-cisiim., i seesuig oui me opinion or
loth sides, of talking nt every oppor-
tutdty to the man In the street and of
p.lng more attention to the aften
tvtwi cjiiiiiieiiis 01 ine nuuiences man
t their applause while the speech mak
Ire is In pi-ogress Is the pronounced
feeling that Mr. Hughes has mnde much,
leidway since he left New York on Oc
tolter y.
Tn!s Is as rurely sensed ns was the 1
I'e.ing that his second Western
tour
" more successful thdn his first.
Waves
. . ,.. .
limuuZ,ZZ
with it,- ,".."."'..;.. 1
amentum not due atmarcntlv
to the rapidity with which favorable
publicity has been spread ahead of his
Peelal train, but to a concerted wide
spread nutlon arising ahead of the tele
ir.iph that ho Is going to win.
Democrats Disturbed.
now the expressed causes of
trend, which Is so disturbing to
this
ob-
'nam Democrats and so heartening to
ltc publicans, vary greatlVas one goes
from sMate to state. The farmers moro
evidently than in nam cnmnnlcma nrA
beginning to make themselves felt In
doubtful States and even In Stules that
had surely been counted on by the Dem-
crtUs, Some uy that Mr. Huzlies'a
Zz !nr v'7 "v,ru' of r i
I resident m Adamson bill surrender Is
Inning the battle because he hus be
gun to make organized labor men see
tn.it the km- H a gold brick and to con
Cnce other classes of working men that
ney are certain to suffer If arbitration
L abandoned for force.
Koine say his reiteration that present
IH'-fCrlty u due to the war and his
prediction that there will be a emashup
unless a protective tariff bill Is passed
lo meet a tremendous Kuropean com
P"tltlnn after the war are winning him
"l. Still others believe that his
Americanism Is attracting the hesitating
Wr And there arc some here and
trure who believe tho people are lm
irese by his promise to give an ad
ministration truly economical and truly
indent, with tho door locked to all
favor seekers.
Persons who have been associated so
oiy with Mr. Hughes as to note, the
simost dramatic development of
nli
campaigning powers arc Inclined to be
neve that the driving cause I In th '
mm himself. In the last two week!
covering the close of his second Western
Jour and the beginning of his third he
tu learned how "to get hit stuff over."
The Flh(ln llantsea.
lie has thrownff th coat of judicial
aloofness and has revealed himself a
;'e lighting Hughes or 190 and 1101.
Ine Hughes who demolished Hearst and
Umtiler and Bryan. He hat acquired
the knack of talking Into the bralrsl
of people Instead of ovsr their head.
A month ago ha dlsdalnad thosa touches
of colloquialism or of popvlsrUac that
tttm (omshosr to bo dma4tl fe.AaMl
. cHas Mfwa jyeLL ;
PRINCETON FRESHMAN
DIES OF PARALYSIS
v
Faculty to Decide To-day
Whether to Close University
or Order Quarantine.
I'ntNCKTO.v, ,V. j Ocl 15. Krlc
Ilrunnow, a member of the freshman
clnss at the university, died to-night In
college Infirmary of Infnntlle paralysis.
A special meeting of the faculty will
be held this morning to decide whether
to clone the university nnd pond the
1.700 students and Iho staff to their
homes or quarantine the university for
two weeks,
llrutmow was 17 yenrs old, the Ron
of Dr. It. B. Ilrunnow of the university.
The young man visited In New York city
for three days before Princeton opened
last Tuesday. The disease did not de
velop until yesterday, nr. George Draper
of the Hockefeller Institute, New York,
came here and gave the patient an In
jection of serum, but to no avail.
Norma! School flirt Stricken.
TnENTON, N. J., Oct. 15. llecause of
the development of n case of Infantile
paralysis at the State. Normal School to
day the State health officials will con
sult the school authorities to-morrow on
the advisability of closing the nchool.
Miss Grace Ople. aged 17, n Somervillc
pupil of the school, was removed to tho
Municipal Hospital to-day after n diag
nosis showed she was suffering from In
fantile paralysis.
BABBIT GETS PARALYSIS.
Important Advance In "tody of
Disease Made at Johna Hopkins.
HAt.TiMonc, Oct. 15. A rabbit used
In the pathological department of Johns
Hopkins Hospital , to determine the
method of transmission of the Infantile
paralysis germ has developed the dls.
ease, It was announced to-night.
Or. Montrose T. lturrows of the ho,
pltal, who discovered that the germ Is
taken Into the system by the. nuuth,
said that the experiment with the rab
bit means another Important advance
toward solving the whole problem of
poliomyelitis. One of the legs of the
rabbit has become paralyzed.
Transmission will tic next attempted
through two monkeys.
6.0. P. PLEASED WITH
REGISTRATION TOTAL
t i;Ure8 SIlOW TnilllliailV TftkeS
Smnlp Interest, With Falling
Of in Manhattan.
Itepubllcan campaign managers.
Slate and national, are Jubilant over
the registration for New York city.
Analysis of the figures shows that the
Itepubllcan nnd Progressive vote Is reg- ca(iy, who has talked with some of the
Istrred to a high percentage and that i i,rt,ie-H, predicted last night thnt the '
Tammany Is taking but a mild Interest I striker. will go back to work this after
in the result. (noon. Others who mingled with many
r-nmuel S. Kocnlg, New York county 0f tnc workers esterday. however,
chairman, has made a study of tho . gained a d. elded Impression that a. ma- i
city ote for years and Is In a pntl.in jmlty of the men will oppose any such '
to speak on registration with the nil- ' niovc. I
thorlty of an expert. Mr. Koenlg yes-1
terday, after a careful examination of Worker !a Slabbed Ut Death,
the registration figures by boroughs nnd I . , . .. . . . ,
by Assembly districts, snld they pointed llo,,,h reported yesterday
unmstnkab y to a blc Hushes nnd
hitman vote.
That was n view In which Herbert
Parsors In Hughe headquarters In
Fifth avenue and K. J. H. Kracke in
Whitman headquarters In the Manhat
tan Hotel concurred.
Gov. Whitman went over the figures
with Mr. Koenlg. Tho Governor when
In . 1. Ut T r.1 It.a, h. . 1.
, train for Huffalo said with a gratl- I
n me that he guessed the outlook
jn this city was satisfactory,
"I hnve scrutinized tho returns." Mr.!
Koenlg said, "and I am satisfied that'
nepubllcnns and Progressives In all five
boroughs of the city are registered In n
v,r. ful( grt.P, Tammany eldently
dd not take the trouble to get out its
vote. No other conclusion Is possible
from an examination of the figures," ,
The one borough that fell down In the 1
registration was Manhatt n. Tammany's
strnnchold. All the other borouchs show j
substantial Increases. A still closer
iinalvsis of the registration shows that
. the loss in Manhattan Is In the districts
wn.r. -ammnnv is Hironic : ine iienuo-
districts, as Mr. Koenlg pointed
out. stand up well In the returns.
Tnmmany leaders made but a feeble
effort to contravert the Republican view
of the city's registration. Robert F.
Wagner, chairman of the Tammany
general committee, ndmltted, as ot
course he was forced to admit, the fall
ing off of registration In the strong Turn
many districts, but ascribed it to the
shifting of population from lower Man
hattan to The Hronx, Queens and Hrook
lyn. "Our voters may move from Manhat
tan Into other IsjrouEhs," Senator Wag
ner said, "but their ballots will be cast
on election day for President Wilson
and for Judge Scabury and William F.
McCombs. We will send Wilson up to
....... .An AAA Hl....ll., "
thmk ,rwd.. .he piu.
.,.. .,.,. nuzhe will come
I down to the Hronx?" he wns asked. He
paused for a moment.
"Well, If wtison neens a Digger ijiu.
rallty we will give It to him." he said.
COMES OUT FOR SOCIALIST.
Chlcaun "Trlbnne'' Bolts Itepubll
can Nominee for State's Attorney.
Chicaoo, Oct. 15. The Chicago Trl
binie, Independent Republican In politics,
will Indorse editorially to-morrow the
candidacy of William Cunnea-, Socialist,
for State' Attorney, The editorial In
part nays :
"The voters of Cook county ought to
rebuko the disgraceful exhibition of
selfish Job hunting politics which Is
now going on In tho hypocritical dls
rnlse of reform. Both sides are playing
the same game, and It Is not the game of
good government. It Is lime for Chicago
to aay, 'A plague on both your houses.'
If thinking citizens, nauseated by Rig
BlllUm and MacIIoynelsm, should turn
to Mr, cunnea we mbhl have a rattling
of skeletons, but the net result would
probably be for the good of the com
munity." Connolly Back at Hla Desk To-aay.
Maurlca E. Connolly, Borough Presi
dent, of Queens, who spent three dayi
In Polyclinic Hospital last week follow.
In- an1 operation cn tils car, wlll'be at
hi desk In- th Queen Borough Hall
this morning. Ho left th hospital flat
arday rBlnf. To-day h will Inspect
th mw rproof mbway bulldlrar In
Lta Man City to Which It la Kayos
9 fHmvQ BM sVVVvHpS MaMIt
BAYONNE INSPECTOR
GETS DEATH THREAT
Placards in Public Announce
Intention to Kill Po
lice Official.
2,000 MEN QUIT STRIKE
Machine Gun to Protect lie
turning Workers at Tide
Water Plant.
l'lacardlng In two conspicuous places
In the town of a warning to Police In
spector Dan Cady of somebody's Inten
tion to "get" lilm nnd the placing of a
machine gun nenr the entrance to the
grounds of the Tide Water Oil Com
pany's plant were the only develop
ments to disturb the customary Sunday
quiet nt Hayonne. where the strlko of
Standard Oil employees Is In progress.
Pinned to n tree near Mydosh's hall,
the strikers' headquarters, at Kast
Twenty-flrst street nnd Avenue F. was
found a sheet of cheap note paper on
which was Inscribed In Ink In rude
printed characters the line, "We'll get
you, Cady, Look out." A duplicate of
this notice, obviously penned by tho
same person, was found pinned outside
the Lehigh Valley freight depot, Kast
Twenty-second street and Avenue D,
Inspector Cady gave no s;gn of alarm !
when the two notices, having been torn I
down, wen- shown to him. Hut Cady Is
never frightened by anything. As leade
of the police In nil their skirmishes with
rioters he has earned a reputation ns a
man who knows no fear, nnd while gain
ing the unqualified rcrpect of the radical
element he also has won Its Intense
hatred. The Inspector Is Inclined to
believe that the warning Is the woik of
an Irrcsponslblo crank.
Tide Water Plant Opens To-day.
The machine gun was placed In front
of the Tide Water property because the
plant Is to resume operations this morn-
. .. . ....... ..... t
the police are determined to be prepared ,lfnry C' Frlck ha" Pliascd for
for any possible Interference with the ' 1250.000 another painting by ltembr.indt.
2,000 leturnlng workmen. The nuthnrl-, "An Old Woman Reflecting Over tfie
ties still Insist they have the situation UctuI.e. For a half century this plc
well In hand, but they don t purpose i , . , . ., - , ,
being caught unawares. ,ure '" n ' collection of Jules
To-day Is fraught with other ponlblll. Purges of Paris,
ties of trouble. With the permission of , The canVas Is the fourth by Item-
to meet In Mydosh's hall this morning
and, after listening to speeches by their
leaders, vote on the advisability of re
turning to work on the exlstlng-wage
basis.
The committee of eleven discussed
plans for tho meeting with their at
torr.ey, James K. Dougherty, yesterday, i
Many of the strikers appear to believe
th(.lr- cnUf0 lH Io8t ,, nothing Is to bo
i,.. ..i.. i.,...,.
nicn may oe innnecieci nn uir lais.r
troubles as that of Joseph Cistellano
of 23 West Twenty-fourth street, who
whs employed by the Tide Water con
cern. Women returning from church found
him last night on the rldewalk In front
of 97 West Twenty-second street. He
died after being removed to n hospital
from a stab wound beneath the heart.
In ii lucid moment he said three or four
men he took for strikers followed und
assaulted him.
The police weie deeply Interested, too.'
Ir. the charges brought by Michael
.MartymacK. a lorcmun or ine ueneaui
Chemical Company, aiAlilst Harry
r .. '
Kacln und Mike Komeiinerkl of 436
Avenue C. Martyinnck appeared at
headquaiters estoiila.v asking for the
arrest of these men In the belief that
they are tho ones who assaulted him
Wednesday night.
Hecause Martymack looks much like I
. Jacob Graus of S9 West Twenty-second
. street the pome nave roro none time en-
, tertalned the theory that the men who
murdered Graus Thursday night really
ere after Martymack,
I.nyul Kmployers tn Meet.
committee of the 3,000 mechanics
and Kngllsh speaking employees of the
Standard Oil Company who voted not to
strike, but were fotced out of work
when the plant closed, announced last
11 o'clock this morning In Opera House
Hall. The time set Is Just ono hour
later than that of the strikers' meeting
In Mydosh s hall. The loyal employees i
plan to make a demonstration of how-
much more numerous they nro than the
strikers, lu the hopo ot convincing the
latter their cause Li lost.
The strikers, according to James II.
Dougherty, their attorney, will at their
meeting namn a committee of three and
request tho
Standard Oil Company to
name a committee of three.
to thresh
out the whole situation.
Horn i Workers Hack nt Work.
Tho 600 employees of the Pacific Coast
Borax Company, who on Saturday had
accepted a compromise offer from their
employers, returned to work yesterday.
Groups of strikers huddled at street cor
ners and stared at the men as they
passed, but there was no suggestion of
trouble.
Inspector Cady nnd his seventy-eight
picked men who have been guarding the
oil tanks during the last week, and many
of the special policemen, under command
of Lieut. Itlglcy, will attend this morn
ing's meeting at Mydosh's hall, prepared
for any possible outbreak.
The radlcnl element of the strikers
received much encouragement In tho
strike of employees of the Bayway plant
at Linden, N. J., Saturday, Late Satur
day night the Hayonne police heard n
report that 1,000 men were coming from
that town to set lira tn tho oil tanks.
Regular policemen and specials were
rushed to all the Uayonno railway sta
tions, but no suspicious looking charac
ters arrived. .
Ten of the special bluecoats who are
members of a (eamstrrs' union received
letters yesterday suggesting that they
sever their connection either with the
police department or tho union.
The strlka began a week ago to-day.
Since last Monday there have been three
fatalities, thirty-seven persons have been
treated k at tha hospital, for varlou
wound, and twenty men, most of them
a ecu a of carrying concealed weapons,
ar In tt Hudson county iairin Jaraey
CKr to a waA action by th draad Jury.
CONVICTS ALL
AS OSBORNE
Ex-Warden Shakes Hands of 1,600 in Farewell and
Then Hears Three Cheers for "Tom Brown"
Speaking Itinerary Announced.
OssiNINO, N. Y., Oct. 15. Thomas
Mott Osborne, who resigned ns warden
of Sing Sing, said good-by to "his boys"
to-day, leaving tho administration of
the prison's affairs In the hands of Cal
vin Derrick, acting warden. Memories
of "Tom Hrown's" last day behind the
old gray" walls promise to linger long
with those ho left behind.
After finishing a lot of routine busi
ness which required his personal atten
tion Mr. Osborne called ubon members
of the exccutlvo board of the Mutual I
welfare League, urged them to keep the
faith nnd bade them farewell. He
started toward the door leading to the
executive otllce at 1 o'clock. Just as the
prisoners, 1,600 of them, were being
tumid out of the mess hull after their
Sunday dinner.
Some of the men knew the ex-warden
was about to go out Into the world as a
plain citizen and many pushed forward
to shake his hand. They wero mar
shnlted In single flic with some difficulty
and then they slowly passed by, each
rami seizing Mr. Osborne's hand lu tun.
Mr. Osborne had made a point to get
acquainted with every prisoner while lie
was nt Sing Sing nnd he knows hundreds
of them by their first names.
It was "Good-by, Hill," "Good-by.
Mike." as the long line passed him. and
the prisoners In turn either by look or
word made It clear they didn't want him
to go.
"God bless you for what you have
:;FRICK PAYS $250,000iTENANTS FLEE FIRE
FOR A REMBRANDT,
"An Old Woman IWlcctin
Over the Lecture" Hi-ought
From Paris.
br,lu now owned Jy Mr. rrlck and the
purchase of It brings the amount he has
spent for art works during the past year
to approximately 12,300,000, the largest
single Item being the tl.ltS.OOQ he paid
for the Kragonard panels of the Morgan i
collection.
Mr. Krlck'b collection now Comprises
ntrtiir. crtliKlv fif flinnn In hlw
home at Pride's Crossing. Ma's. In nr. !
circles u is inougni nc plans 10 leave nis
entire collection to .New i ork city, nut i
memorial of hltmclf. 1
"An Old Woman Heflectlng Over the .
Lecture" was painted In 1649, when
Itembrandt was 43 )cars old. The can
ax U 3ki.j Inches high and 31' Inches
wide. Mr. Krlck'fc other Itembrandts are
"Polish I tlder," "Portrait of Rembrandt"
and "Portrait of an Artist." Them were
painted respcctlxely in 1C59, IfiSS and
16r.Il.
The subject of his latest purchase Is a
very old woman with a melancholy but
sweet face In which are pictured the
sorrows and disillusionment of life. In
the face are many wrinkles, the paint
ing of which Is wonderfully done.
MADE LOVE WITH REVOLVER.
Ciive Mini" Mle or Cnurllna: lie-
suited In Three tiring; Wounded.
Ghasp ItArins. Mich.. O t. 15. Mitchell
(iotiHV.i rend In a nowcp ipcr thai to
make a woman love ou you mut use
"cave man' tactics. To-day with this
newspaper clipping In his hand he started
out to find a wife. Three persons are
In the hospital to-night mot tally wounded
as a result, I
The wounded arc: Miss Alice Ray-j
mond, shot three times through the body.
Cook Oakes, shot twice In the back!
Mitchell Gonav.i, shot twice thiough the
body and throat cut. j
The police have been able to learn '
but little of the details of the shootlim
oxrept that Gonava called on Miss Ray
mond this morning and demanded that
she become his wife. She refused and
Gonava trlod to forre matters with a
revolver.
i
i NORMAN PRINCE DEAD,
' Amerlonn
Avlntnr. I'luhllnK for
I'riiner, Dies From Injuries.
Pahis, Oct, IS, Norman Prince, who
was shot down In nn encounter with a
German aviator last week mid had both
legs broken, died In a hospital this
morning ns n result of bis Injuries, Ills
brother. Frederick Prince, was at his
t bedside nt tho time.
. rnncej vvno was me sou 01 i reiierics
. II. rrinco oi Hamilton, .Mass., nan neen
twice decorated for distinguished service
as a flyer with the Franco-American
aviation corps. He held the military
medal for skill and bravery. He was a
close friend and companion In many air
battles of Klffln Rockwell, the American
filer lecently Wiled In an air battle in
Alsace.
The dead aviator was graduated from
Harvard with the class of 1909 and later
from'thc Harward Law School.
Boston, Oct. 16. Frederick II. Prince,
banker and broker, Is critically 111 at his
home, Prlnremere, nt Prides Crossing.
Specialists nnd trained nurses nre at his
bedsldn night and day. Liver trouble la
said to be his ailment.
The condition of Mr. Prince wns much
nffected during the day by tho news that
his son, Norman Prince, sergo.int-major
In the Franco-American aviation corps,
had been badly injured in a recent battle
In tho air on the French frontier, both
his legs being broken.
5,685 BRITISH KILLED IN WEEK.
Total of Wounded nnd MIssIiik for
Same I'rrlnil 24,1101.
Nptrlal Ctililt Dupaleh la Tm: Scn,
Lonpon, Oct. 15. In tho last week
5,372 British soldiers nnd 313 British
officers, a total of C.CS5, were killed In
the fighting on all th fronts where there
are British troops, the War Office an
nounces. The total wounded and missing last
week was 14,994, the War Office an
nounce. Of this number 1,011 war officer.
CHOKED UP
QUITS PRISON
done for us," was the way In which
more than one convict choked out a fare
well. "You'll bo1 a third termer sure" and
"You'll be back soon," said others.
There wns n blowing of noses nfter
hand shakes that gave Mr. Osborne n
5retty good Idea how some of "the boys"
felt, and he wns so much affected that
he didn't like to tnlk about It nfter
wnrd. Thp men wound up their farewell by
gathering In croups In the prison yard
and
giving "Three cheers for Tom
Hrown !" Then Mr. Osborne passed out.
Hefore leaving Sing Sing Mr. Osborne
rllctnt,! lAtt.m tn mnnv friend who
hurl wrltim tn him rnnrrrnliiir 111 rcslo--
nation. He left the" "prison nt 4:30i. , ., . . ., ... I
o'ciTk In his car. Harry Bnlaskey. a ,,CC(1 demands .respecting Interfer-.
former prisoner, now a protege, nc-nc with American mnlln. The next t
compnnleil him. Spencer Miller. Jr., move anticipated from the Admlnlstra-!
deputy warden, nnd Mr. Tlsborne's per-!,.-,, ,. , ..,.. .,.. .1.1. .-..., '
fore the ex. warden rode away.
Members of the new prison board of
Massachusetts, of which Pr. C. F. Will-
lams Is chairman, visited Sing Sing yes.
terday and listened with much Interest
to Mr. Osborne's explanation of his sys-
tern of reform. I
Mr. Osborne's e-pecchmnklng Itinerary
will be ns follows: October 1. Cooper'
t'nlon: October 19. Palace Casino, Har
lem: October 20, Hrynnt Hall: October
31, Syracuse; October 23. Huffalo. He
will make his headquarters at the Hotel
Helmont while he Is In the city.
AS 68 HORSES BURN
Sparks From Blazing Stahlc
Imperil Three Xcarhy
Houses.
Sixty-eight horses were burned to
death In a fire last night which wrecked
i stable nt 4 .18 Rut- 17th street, and
burned so fiercely before a wind, which
carried sparks for hundred of yards,
that many nearby tenement houses were
threatened.
The Htnble Is owned by Hyman Katx.
The blaze when discovered was In a pile !lonal problems to be ined for domestic ,
of hay and swe.plngs In the rwr. AnjI.1',l"-.'. h dV'ote him-,
, . , -- .elf to International-affair without ex-
alarm was tapped In Immediately, but trneous considerations. Since the Pres
by the time Hattallon Chief niggers had ldentlal campaign loomed up his opln-
arrived the building was in flamesT Hlg-'
gers sounded u second nnd then a
alarm, which brought Deputy
third '
Chief.
Jones '
Smoky
Joe Martin from Great
sireei, uoiiig nine niurs iiirnumi me ,
cty ot a mile a minute rate or better,
''hen. In charge of the sl.ibles, were on
ne mini noor witn mcir cscii- cut on.
i They threw a rope from the window, the
crowd stretched it to a point across the
street and the men slid to safety.
I In tha rear of the stable at 1663
I Washington avenue was a tenement
t hoipu. The Humes rose a hundred feet
or more Into the air and then cascaded
' dnaii In sparks, falling on the tenement
roof and on the roofs of two frame
dwellings at 1663 Washington avenue,
'occupied by Dr. M. Krnkowskl. nnd
; 1667, occupied by Dr. J. L. Itubensteln.
I Police reserves drove the tenants of
all these building to the streets and the
firemen wet down the buildings with tons
' of water, managing to save them. The
I hc.it was so great that the big crowd
was kept at Third awnuc, two blocks
' away.
No attempt was made or could be
mad) to save the horses. Tho damage
was put .it IJO.OnO by Chief Martin.
SHOES 50 10 75 CENTS HIGHER, j
Inerrnseil I'rlrr I'orced by Mhortaice
of Leather.
PlTTsiirnn, Oct. 1.1. Wholesale prices'
on nien'a and women's footwear have
been advanced .10 to 7.1 cents a pair
within the last seventy-two hours and
certain lines have been withdrawn en-1
tltely from the market owing to n big
snoriage in le.iuier, according to an an-
nounrement here to-day by olllcers of tho
Pennsylvania Shoe Travellers Assocla -
"0"'
ine organization, wntch Is comnosed
of salesmen from various parts of the
; - " 'o. i'-iiii"iy,
I m , nl 11 meeting last night,
( ? rt-i,i irom urms
! manufacturing shoes announcing an ad -
ami- oi oi ln i,u cems a pair on unner
stock and to 10 cents a pound on solo
leather. Two lines of shoes were ad
vanced 73 cents a pair In two days.
dipt. William A. Dana of New York
was elected president.
NEW PLYING BOAT CARRIES 12.
Passenger 'raft Sonra BOO IVrt
Above l.nkr lOukn, J
BriT.M.o, N. Y Oct. 13. An enormous
flying boit. built after the lines of the
America, rose from Lake Keuka at the
flying field at llammnndspnrt this after
noon with eleven passengers seated In
tho cabin, The pilot made the twelfth
member of tho piuty.
At 1100 feet the machine soared on
the air currents over the lake. The re
turn trip w-as made with ease and the
landing was remarkable for Its accuracy.
The new flying boat, tho largest ever
built, has n greater spread of wing than
the America, It Is not tho tractor typo.
Pusher propellers arc used. There are
two propellers, each operated by nn
eight cylinder motor of 200 horsepower.
ST. PAUL, LIGHTS ABLAZE, HERE
Amerlrnn l.lner Takes Preenntlnns
Agnlnst V-II oat Mistake.
The American liner Si. Paul, In yes
terday from Liverpool, observed tho
same precautions while nearlng this
coast tin Saturday night that she does
nt the British terminal of her ttlp, wheie
German U-boats nro almost constantly
harassing merchantmen.
She had every light aboard ship blaz
ing on Saturday night ami early yester
day morning before dnwn. Clusters of
electric lamps were swung outboard
with rays directed upon the American
flags pulnled on her port nnd starboard
Ides. This waa done. Capt. A. R. Mills
said, to prevent any German submarine
commander mistaking Che IdenUty f th
BL Paul.
NEW "SHARP NOTE"
FOR GERMAN VOTES
President Wilson Is Expected
to liaise Grave Issue
With Allies.
HALTING OF MAILS TOPIC
Political Aids Clamor for
Creation of "Crisis"
Lansing1 Objects.
Wasiii.vo.ton, Oct. IB. It Is the pre
vailing opinion In official nnd diplomatic
circles here that President Wilson will
at once raise a sharp Issue with the En-,
tcnto Allies over their flat refusal to
fm. aiii ..... ..1 , .
snorne s per- ,; ,. a note rettrntlB t,, n0Vcrn
lng Sing ue- '
I "'"" implying wi.u it-
itallatory measures might be taken under
consideration unless some adjustment Is
rorthcomln
ror,ncomlnB'
There Is as yet no official Information
as to the Administration's prospective
,,, ,, ,.,,, ,..,- ha. ,r
,
fully refrained from giving any Inkling
of this Government's views. It Is under
stood he Is waiting for the signal from
Shadow Lawn. If President Wilson de
rides to send his rejoinder In advance of
The elections It may require rush work
on the part of the State Department,
especially If the legal arguments ad
vanced by Great Britain and France are
to be answered.
Speclnrnlnr Action Demanded.
Investigation here Indicates the Presi
dent's next move will depend largely on
whether he follows the advice of Secre
tary Iinslng, Independent of other con
siderations, or whether he permits his
political supporters to Influence his policy
from the viewpoint of temporary domes
tic advantage.
There U clamor from many sources
for spectacular action with a view to Its
It'.fluentpjaon the campaign. The creation
of a so-called "crisis" with the Kntcntc
Allies Huh openly been spoken of as an
excellent and logical means of Influenc
ing tho German vote.
Secretary Lansing Is understood to be
strongly disinclined, to 'permit Interna
Ions In this respect have
clashed with
,,10'f of 0,''fr Cabinet members.
DlfTerrncrs Are Itadlrnl.
The Joint reply of the Hntente Allies.
I It Is understood from the State Depart
ment Mewjmint, uullcntes a radical, al
most irreconcilable difference of opin
ion oer the lospective rights of belli);,
erents nnd neutrals In the matter of in
terference with malls.
Secretary Lansing has shown In his
notes that he recognizes the tllgerents'
rights, but he demands also recognition
for the neutral lights of the Cnlted
States. The Kntentc Allies cannot, up. 1
parently. extend this recognition with
out feeling that their belligerent lights
are affected. The problem from the ,
standpoint nf International law Is to find 1
some common ground or compromise Mlt.
Isfactory to the belligerent and the neu
tral. .
The tendency of the State Depaitment
Is to continue the discussion and tight
the case out on the basis of lntcrnntlon.it
law. Whether, because of other consid
erations, a more spectacular course will
be chosen Is the question which Is at
tracting the interest of diplomats in
tt iiffiiiiiXlun.
MILITIA CALL NECESSARY.
I'nnstnn Great Kmertrsrr
('Died lint in II -.1 - -
...
San Antonio. Tex.. Oct. IS. Major.
i.eu. rre.ierii K runston told some of tho
men under his command how great was
ine emergency wmcn caused them to he
ordered Into khaki.
"When you men of the National Guard
were culled out." Gen. I'unston said, "of
course, you cxneetcit to en 'slum l..ll-,
across the boreler. and let me tell vou
' that when history Is written It will show
I that the calling out of the guard In
. June was nn child a nlav thai It was u
question of hours. The reason for call-
"'f. -t'w"ni iiu.iiii iiosu-
niteiy necessary. All of ou will know
. w oj swum uay, nun i no not ininu mere,
- has been any time since when It would'
. nave neen sure io reduce tnc number of,
men on the border."
The General s remarks were made In
ine course oi a ibik at a dinner Friday
night given by tho Third und Fourth
Illinois infantry.
20 HURT AT "DEATH AVENUE."
I.ocomot I V -Street
Mnnshes Into n l-d
Crosatnvvii Cnr.
Hutting the car off Its track nod In
juring twenty persons, a northbound
locomotive of the New York Central
Railroad crashed Into a Forty-second
street crosstovvn car ut Kleventh avenue
last night. Five of the Injured were re
moved to Polyclinic Hospital,
Patrolman Bradley of the West Forty -
seventh street station was on the car
doing strike duty, lie summoned the
ambuliuce as soon as he was able to
get out of tho car, which was badly
smashed.
Most of those hurt were cut by glass
and were hysterical, They were able to
go homu nfter being given surgical at
tention.
BOY SHOT FOR STONING HENS.
Owner Mns lie Tripped nnil Itlfle I
Went 'Off Aimed, Says Victim.
Roys have lieen chasing nnd stoning'
n flock of chickens belonging to Legorle
McClulnness of Borden avenue, Laurel
Hill, Queens, and yesterday he set out
with ii .32 calibre title to guard the
poultry.
James Huston, 15 years old, of 45
Joy nvenue and Robert Riley, 16 years
old, of Clifton avenue were botheilng
the chickens yMtfrday when McOuln
ness appeared. In the chase which
ensued Huston waa shot through th
right lung and It is said he may not
survive. McGulnnes asserts he tripped
over a stick and shot accidentally.
Huston says he saw McGulnnesa aim
at htm. Tha Rellly boy cannot b found.
: EXPLOSION STARTS
U-BOAT BASE RUMOR
Strange Itlast at Kast Machias,
Mc, Was Heard for
Ten Miles.
Kast Machias, Mc, Oct. 1.".. An ex
ptoslon that shook' this village about 4
A. M. Satunlay und was heavy enough to
bo heard for a distance of ten miles Is
now known to have taken place In a
building nt the head of navigation on the
Kast Machias lllvcr which, It Is now
disclosed, had been used secretly as a
storehouse for Romo powerful explosive.
KtYorts to ascertain the ownership of
the explosive were unsuccessful to-day,
the authorities placing little credence In
the suggestions of some citizens that a
hidden cache for submarine warfare had
been discovered. Reports that boats had
been heard passing up the river during
the heavy storm of Friday night and
Saturday morning could not be con-
Armed nnd telephone messages from the
coast guard station at Cross Island nnd
from Cutler, at the mouth of the river,
showe(, thllt Mrnl1g9 craft had been
M en In that vicinity.
, Tlle demolished building was owned
,,y Carroll Dennlson of this vlllngc and
each year In catching nlewlves. It was
built In the middle of the river. Tho
owner sold he hail not visited the place
for several months and that he had no
knowledge that anything was stored
there.
The theory held here Is that some one
1,aJ ,aKf advantage of the fact that
tn, locality
U.M1N mif rrinittilar1 t n ISMa
dynamite In the building. The quantity
of explosive was apparently large. Judg
ing from the concussion, but the purpose
for which It was Intended as well ns the
CttU.io of the explosion Is undetermined.
U.S. DESTROYER OFF
ON UNKNOWN QUEST
i
MfDotiRall, on Submarine
Hunt, Speeds to Sea Under
Full Power.
Hah ItAnnon, Me,, Oct. IS. The des
troyer McDougall, which left Kastport
at 9 o'cljck this morning to hunt for
foreign submersible nnd a possible sub
marine base of supplies nlong the
rugged Maine coast, put In here this
afternoon and gave shore leave to a
party of t-:illjr.. Shortly after the men
landed they were recalled by four loud
blasta of the destroyer's whistle. As
t-"on as the sailors got aboarV the Mc-
Dougall lifted anchor and steamed
away under full power. The Incident
started a report that some Important
development hail occurred In connec
tion with the warships' neutrality patrol.
Armed l.lner Cumbrian In Boston.
Hoston, Oct. 1.1. The Cambrian of
the Leylnnd Line arrived to-day from
London with n four Inch gun mounted
mi her lifter deck. The gun was In
stalled as u protection agslnet subma
rines. On the trip the gun crew did
mc practising with barrels as targets.
The Cambrian Is the second armed
merchantman
ear.
to enter the harbor this
ST. REGIS STATUE VANISHED.
Me li III
s llmifril s...,llllt Ilrouiri
Motel Guest Solved .Mater7.
It looked like rain yesterday morning.
so Mrs. J, H, Robertson, stopping at the i along the Danube, which may mean nn
Hntel St. Regis with her hulund, a I other Hulgarlan attempt to cross to the
manufacturer of automobile accessories Rumanian bank. The Hulgar statement
lu Chicago, decided to Indulge her pen- says "the Danube Is quiet." The Ru-
chant for sketching. The treet offered
a dismal subject. Her .na suggested
the bronze David and Goliath figures
mounted on a pedestal at the restaurant
entrance of the hotel. She rang for two
bellboys and presently they staggered
Into her mom hearing the 150 pound
piece for which R. M. llaan spent $5,000
In Parts several years ago.
The boys failed to tell the dek clerk
of their errand. Therefore when one of
the luncheon gnct Inquired about the
1 missing figures the hotel wns thrown
Into a turmoil. The boys had gone off
I duty by that time and no one r.lse In tho
hotel .could explain how the hulky and
valuable group had disappeared. In des
peration woril was sent to th detectives
of the Second branch. Two men ques
tioned the employees but could learn
nothing of the disappearance.
At ! I . .m. .Mrs. Robertson, on her
way to dinner In the hotel, suddenly
paused and remarked to ono of the
. cI.tLs ?
"I forgot to tell vou that vour statue
is irowuing up my loom. I wish vou
would remove It. I have finished my
sueicning.
She explained she had had the bronze
croon enrr ed to her r,nm hnus. .h
wished to avoid the embarrassment of
fitiestlous at the restaurant rnimm..
The detectives were called off,
PANAMA STRIKES SPREADING.
Strerl ('tenners nnd Street llnllnny
Mfn Follow Cnnnl I.nhnrrrs, I
Panamv, Oc. 1.1 The strike started
by ncKro workers on tho Panama Canal
Is spreading. .100 sfeet car emploees
having gone out. completely tying' up
the mad. The bakers threaten to walk
ll. (....Int.. 11.. ....II... ... I .
...ii lo'iitKiii, i nc iM.uv.-y in-iiay cioseu
the headquarters of tho stilkers In or-
der to prevent street assemblies.
Prisoners are cleaning the streets
of ,
' Panama, the regular cleaners having
quit vvorK. i nere is n general inclina
tion among the negroes to stop work.
There were mtny fights to. day In Pan
ama, but no fatalities. The strike ha
not Interrupted dredging In the canal,
CONTRADICTS THE PRESIDENT,
Atlnntlr Cltj's Jlsjor Snym I.ana
Arc Unforced There,
Atlantic Citt, N. J, Oct, 15, Mayor
ll.iriy Bachararh Issued a statement
1 to-day asseitlng that the excise, election
and oilier laws lire nuorccii as siriCIiy
here ns In any other New- Jersey town.
This statement wns made In reply to a
portion of President Wilson's address
of Saturday In which he rpoke slight
Ingly of the law enforcement In seashore
counties.
The President's reference was taken
ns n thrust at the Republican electorate
In Atlantic county, made lo help the
Democratic candidate for Governor,
Otto Wlttpenn.
German lla Iron Ootpnt I.esa.
Rkkmn, by wireless to Sayvllle, Oct.
15. Germany's output of pig Iron In Sep.
tember waa 1,116,000 tons, compared
with 1,145,900 ton In August, i
austrian drive
at barrier of
Rumania Vain
Fierce Attacks Against
Mountain Passes Are
Broken Down.
OFFENSIVE RESUMED
IN TRANSYLVANIA
King Ferdinand's Troops
Break Teuton Lines and
Storm Peak.
FIGHTING IS GOING
ON DAY AND NIGHT
All Alonj? the Danube Big
Guns and Infantry
Are Active.
London-, Oct. IS. Rumania Is hold
ing her own against Von Falkenhayn'sj
attempt to crush her. Not only are,
the Kumanlnn armies holding all tho
mountuln passes along 400 miles of
frontier, but at places they have re
gained the offensive and thrown back
the Teutons.
In n strong drive up the Jltt Valley,
south of I'ctrosony, the Rumanian
troops have broken through the Aus
trian lines. They stormed tne sum
mit of Mount Negri, In the Transyl
vanli Alps, which Is jfno of the highest
peaks In these mountains. Its ascent
takes mountain climbers five hours.
For the time at least the main Ails-tro-Cerman
nrmy tint bent tho Ru
manians first at Ilcrm.innstnilt nnd
then at Kronstadt Is facing resistance,
too strong for It tn break. The Ru
manians defending thp four passes In
the mountains south of Krnnstaflt
have been hammered a., div by Teuton
nttacks described ns "very Intense,"
Kvery attack has broken down nnd tho
Germans ndmlt that "at the frontier
pnsses of Hurrenlinil ITrnnsylvmla
theft1 has been no essential change."
On the OrTrnslie cnln.
Taking the offensive a' one point,
after repulsing every Teu'oii on .aught,
the Hum inlan drove the Auitrlant
, from the Pol'stoca valley. S'stv-fmir
prisoners were taken from a single
' ":.,"' ipany In tl,w region
The Rumnnl.in olllclil statement ad.
mlts thnt the retirement In the Kallmnn
(Kelemen) Mountains In I'-rtlieastern
Transylvania Is still going . but aya
all the entrances through the c.irpith
l.ms from Trann l mi.i to Rumania
have been successfully defended
The statement again mfnMons "In
fantry activity" as well as nrtlllery ftr
manlan statement says:
Northern and Northwestern fronts
In the Kallman Mountains on- troops
retired toward th.- front er Smth. of
Tulghes-Gyorgyo-Folges enemy In
fantry were put to l Hht by our ar
tillery. In the iippr ltlc.17. valley,
west of the fiomier, theru were ar
tillery duels,
Violent
At Paianka.
lIliKnuemen ts.
In Hylmas pass
m'nor
engagements have liken pi ice
In the
Frill valley thele have been violent
encounters, (in the ftontler in the
Oltoz Valley we sanguinarily repulsed
all enemy attacks In the Huzeu Val
ley there has been violent fighting.
On the frontier south of Kronstadt
all nttacks by the enemy have been
repulsed. We took slxtv-foiir ptlsnners
from a single enemy company At
Bratocea and Predeliit minor enirage.
ments took place, and at Predel lively
fighting has continued diy and nluht"
We repulsed the enemv attacks and,
taking the offensive, drove him from
the Pnllstora Vallev There was very
Intense fighting at Hucar. Our t mop's
maintained their positions.
In the Alt Valley an artillery duel
and minor engagements have taken
place along the entire front In Hie
J I 111 Valley vve took by nsv.iult tho
summit of Mount Negri and Zanc.iz.i,
capturing one olllcer and forty men,
There has been artib ry tig ,titr; nt
Orsova.
Qnlet In (lie Hotirnil Jn.
Southern frontAll along the Din
ithe there has hceiiailillcrvnndmf.nl.
try activity. In DobrudJ i nothing has
occurred.
The German statement. Issued before
... , ,
Mn,i,U Nfrl V L?1
Transylvania- Op the eastern front
there have been su 'ssfui encounters
with enemy rearguards At the fron-
' tier passes of Burrenland there has
I been no essential change (in bufi
sides of Szurdlick pass Human. an at
tacks have been iepeled. The eneiv
again has been driven from that pnr
tlon of the ridge which he occupied the
day before yesterday
PUSH BUI. GARS BACK.
Sarrall'a .Troop Itesiimr dvnnee
nn Both Wilms In Greece.
Paws, Oct. 11 - (ion. Sarrall's at
tacks on the Ilulsar wings In Mace
donia are again pushing ba-k tho op-,
posing forces after i deadlock of some
days. In western Maccilouia tho Ser
bians ate advancing and in eastern
Macedonia the railway line south of
Seres has been cut The riilro.nl al
ready hid been cut liorl'i of Seres, so
that town, a Huluar stronghold, Is so
lated. Areordlng to n Renter despatch from
Salonlca the Serbians broke the stub
born Bulgar resistance yesterday nf'er
terrific lighting, most of It at close
quarters. For a time the lsue was un
certain, but the Impetuous Serbl n bay
onet attacks finally drove the ItulsMrs
from some of their trenches on the left
bank of th Cerna, tn Serbian territory,
:x
