BF-? - ' - - ^'"^BBBBBMBBBBII^H
% . \
WEATHER. If C^f7 . A id ^ ?r o s u
Rain tonight. Tomorrow partly | B B^ y M H. f ^ IvTSV l ? TOftt mTCSS tO ilOTttC
cloudy; little change in temperature: ^P^^B I B ^^B B Ay J^BT ^ j WW
gentle to moderate winds, becoming B I B^^^L P^B B^^w Sm^a^W B ? /i\ H .... - ...
?:,'"rlv. . fl fl A | g flP 0m W T W IT I I I 1 ? I j f W ~ ' iY Within the Hour'
Temperature for twenty-four hours B IBB B B B B B B B B B B ^IB^k" B ^1 B B \, , ^ 4B/11
pm.: Highest. 66. p.m. I J B B " J J B B B B B B B B B B B i B 3 % !
yesterday; lowest. 56. at 2 a.m. today. B B ^L. > B. B ^L 0 fl B B B B B. J B I B ~ a. L
Full report on page Hl^F B^^B^ ^
1 : ( y I f y ^ y^_J J y Sworn Net Circulation, Month of September,
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 14. ^ ^ w/ 1?1?. Dally A\erase, 74,8301 Sunday. 84448.
No. 29,473. ~~ WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1916?EIGHTEEN PAGES. * ONE CENT.
(MET STUMPING
NATIONFOR WILSON
Some Now on Tour and Others
Are Leaving This
Week.
* ASSISTANTS SPEAK ALSO
Members of the President's cabinet
are active these days campaigning.
Secretary McAdoo of the Treasury Department.
Secretary Baker of the War
Department and Secretary Daniels of
Vo*-v nonarhnotii i?*ft Washington
today on campaign tours, while other
members of the cabinet contemplate '
leaving soon.
Secretary McAdoo of the Treasury j
Department, accompanied by Dr. Stock- j
ton Axon, brother-in-law of the Presi-J
dent, will start this afternoon on a ; '
speechmaking circuit that will take 1
him through Illinois, Indiana. Ohio and | ,
Tennessee. Secretary McAdoo will be]
back at the end of the month, in time j 1
to proceed to New York to cast his j 1
ballot. { 1
He will speak at Peoria. 111., October!
17: at Chicago, October 18; at Fort!'
Wayne, Ind.. October 19: at La
Grange, Ind., in the afternoon, and at <
South Bend, Ind., in the evening of j i
October 20. Two days are to be spent 1
in Ohio, the dates to be fixed by the !?
democratic national committee. Fol- 1 >
lowing that he will proceed to Mem- <
phis. Tenn. j 1
George R. Cooksey, private secretary j 1
to the Secretary, will be of the party. j t
I 1
Secretary Redfield Returns.
Secretary Redfield of the Department j
of Commerce returned to the city today
from a week's tour through Nlw 1
Jersey, New York, Rhode Island and ]
Connecticut. !
Secretary Baker left here today to '
make a series of campaign speeches 1
in various cities of New Jersey and i 1
New York. He will be away from the |
capital about two weeks.
_ Secretary Daniels will spend the next 1
two days on the stump in Indiana.
Kentucky, Iowa, Missouri, Kansas and j 1
other middle western states. He will .
not return to this city until Novem- 3
ber 1. I ]
Postmaster General Burleson, follow- 1 ,
ing an address at a rally at Rockville, I 1
Md., tomorrow, will leave Washington I
late this week on a campaign speak- I j
ing tour, which will take him through i
Indiana and Illinois. He will return j
November 1. s
Secretary Wilson in Middle West, j J
? Secretary Wilson of the Department; J
~-c T ? t--- / omnalo'Tiintr t hrflllfh I .
the west and middle west since the 1
first of the month. He will return to j
Washington November 1.
Secretary Houston of the Department!
of Ajp-ic^ture probably will leave the j
latter part of the week for a speaking
tour through New- England. Assistant j
Secretary Carl Vrooman is now on a
tour through the middle west, having
been out about a week, speaking in Illinois.
Indiana and Iowa. He will speak
in Indianapolis Friday and return to
Washington Monday, it ie expected.
Secretary Dane of the Interior Department
is with the American-Mexican
commission at Atlantic City.
TUT SICKNESS. NEW DISEASE.
Serions Epidemic in Germany From
Eating Much Preserved Foods. j
LONDON, October 16, 11:33 a.m.?"Ac
cording to travelers from Germany," ;
buys the Exchange Telegraph's Am- j
sterdam. correspondent, "a remarkable i
disease is spreading in many parts of
Germany, especially in Berlin, Ham- :
burg, Munich and Cologne, caused by I
continual feeding from preserved j
ioou*. aiie wckiujm i? uescnww a? ,
'tin sickness.' It is considered a serious ,
form of blood poison. t
"Thousands of cases are reported in ;
every large city, although the authori- J '
ties exercise strict control over the : !
tin used for preserving foods."
EXPLOSION ORIGIN UNKNOWN
Believed Destruction of Fish Stand at
East Machias Was Deliberate.
EAST MACHIAS, Me.. October 16.? :
A mysterious explosion destroyed a fish ; |
stand at the entrance of the East ila-j
chias river Saturday. Investigation to- j
day has fafled to determine its origin.;
That dynamite or some other high ex-j
plosive had been piaced there was es- i
tablished. but whether it had been kept I
.n storage or put there to destroy the!
building was not ascertained.
The theory suggested as most prob- 1
able was that the fish stand was dclib- ,
crately blow n up. Warnings had come v
to Carroll Denison. owner of the shack. ; (
not to build any more stands, it was *
to Carroll Dennison. owner of the shack
idea who was responsible for the warnings
or the explosion.
JAPAN ADMITS INQUIRY.
Probing Canal Concession Made by :
China to American Company.
TOKIO, Japan, October 16.?Adrnis- j
sion is made at the foreign office that j
the Japanese government has instituted j
an inquiry into the granting by the I
Chinese government of a cone-nun-.,, # /.,-!
the reconstruction of part of the Grand |
canal in Shantung province to the !
Sieiii?-Carey Company of St. Paul.
Minn.
. Japanese officials declared that no
. protests had yet he r: lodged by Japan j
with the Chinese government against1,
the- American railroad project and it j
"a as added that the future Action of the'
government could not be discussed.
Japanese newspapers assert that Russia.
Great Britain and France have
protested against the signing of a con-I
tract between the t'hinese government j
and the St. Paul concern for the building
of a railroad In China, claiming
that such action would be a violation
of previous agreements with these |
powers.
"Fenian Bam" in New York. >
few YOKK. October IS.?The fore- !
runner of the modern submarine, "the j
Fenian ram." the first submersible boat, j
built by John I*. Holland, the in
veutor, in 1X79, arrived here today on |
the deck of a lighter, after having lain j
for thirty-four years in the mud of j
Mill river. N. H. The egg-shaped craft,
thirty-one feet over all. weighs nineteen
' tons and its oil-burning engine, much
corroded, is still in place. It will be
th? principal exhibit at the Jrish re*
lief fund bazaar now in progress at
Madison. Square Garden.
HUGHES STRONGER
THAN EVER IN WEST
Alvin T. Hert, Manager of Chicago
Headquarters, Predicts
Clean Sweep.
EFFECT OF 8-HOUR ISSUE
BY N. 0. MESSENGER.
CHICAGO. 111., October 16.? Alvin T.
Hert, western manager of the republican
campaign, expressed full confidence
yesterday in the success of the republican
ticket. Mr. Hert has been cam
paigning wiiu narits i%. iiugnos in:
the middle west. Yesterday the west- <
ern republican manager said:
"From the outset of the campaign I j
have believed that Charles E. Hughes j
would be elected President of the j
United States. During the first three!
months of the campaigning it was a
belief, in the last three weeks my belief
has emphasized itself into a condition
of confidence that is a synonym for
certainty.
"There has been a gradual evolution
-jf things and conditions throughout the
months of the struggle. It took the
people some time thoroughly to understand
Mr. Hughes' views 011 nil the
many salient issues of the day. (hie by
)nc in his speeches he lias explained his
iriews and his position. In all cases a
ittle research has shown that his views
:oday square with his actions of yesterday.
-?
Injection of Labor Issue.
"Within a comparatively short time
there has been injected into the campaign
a so-called labor issue. It is a
specilic thing and It has required spe- j
mtie treatment. Mr. Hughes has given)
it the treatment necessary. The people !
understand today the so-called eight- ;
hour matter, which is not an eightliour
at all, and they understand it;
thoroughly.
"Mr. Hughes* directness in meeting)
this question and his skillful power of,
xnalysis and his ability to lay bare the
(<x\ .s ha.e shown tnis thing in its true
light to the country. The laboring men i
understand it today and their minds on j
the suoject are not that which they t
were when the matter with its seem- j
ingly glittering promise first came to
\horr,
"Labor has done the republican party
i service. It was a 1 ader of la >or, one ,
trusted by his followers, . ho bor?* tea- j
timony to thc record of Mr. Hughes as ,
Sovtrnor of New York, when he did '
more in behalf of the work in 4111. n than ;
ill the governors who had precedes !
him in office.
deception in Middle West.
"Within the past three we<*ks I have j
made a trip through the middle west j
ivith the republican candidate. With-,
n the past week I have made part ofmother
trip with him through the j
same section of the country. The re- j
jeptions which have been accorded
3ov. Hughes; the manifestly deep in- j
Lerest of the voters in his address.s to
them, and the reports from students
if political conditions, who have trav- j
eled through the country in the vvake '
jf Mr. Hughes, combine to make me
ertain of his victory next month. j
"Th* tiip of the lepublican candidate
through Kentucky was one of triumph.
He went to the mountain re
A'here no candidate for th*- presidency
iver before had appeared. The people
ame t r miles on foot an.-] oii horse- .
?ac!< to h.ar Mr. Hughes. '1 he interest j
Aas intense, and I :im told oy those
perfectly familiar v. ith eastern Ken:ucky
that conditions were never so
favorable for success as at this time.
L'he full republican strength in eastern
Kentucky will be shown at the polls,
in j this will be a factor in making
for success.
"There v. ere those at the beginning
if this campaign who seemed to think
:hat it lacked sometning in enthusiasm.
The eyes of these men have been
ripened. The campaign is one of an
intensity of interest and of activity.
If the reunited republican party, and
it is a reunited party, will ke--p up j
for th" next three v. eeks t ie pace of
the past three weeks. Charles H.
[l ights will be elected President of the
'"nited States by a majority of fully
luo votes in the electoral college." i
RECOGNITION IS GIVEN
GOVERNMENT IN CRETE
LONDON, October 16, 2:32
p.m.?The entente allies have
Formally recognized the provisional
gove n-nent of Greece in the
Island of Crete, set up by former
Premier Venizelos.
ATHENS, Saturday, October 1 i, via,
London, October lti.?The cabinet of j
Spyridon Lainbr.os has officially renew- j
i d to the entente powers the proposals ?
for Greece's entry into the war on the
side of the allies which were made by j
the cabinet of M. Kalogeropoulos Sep- j
lembcr 1&.
King constat!tine toaay siKiieu a ue- j
tree postponing for one month the ;
meeting of th?- Creek chamber of deputies,
which, according to the constitu- j
tion, was due t > convene today.
LAFAYETTE IN PORT.
When Warned Left Its Course to
Avoid Hostile Submarines.
NEW YORK, October 1 .?The French
line steamer Lafayette arrived early to- |
day from Bordeaux bringing among
her passengers Mr. and Mrs. William
K. Vanderbilt, John Barrett, Enrico
Caruso, Frank A. Munsey and fc>. S.
McClure.
Officers of the ship said that they had '
received warning by wireless when in j
rnid-ocean to look out for subrt>arines
near Nantucket. A new course was immediately
set and the ship approached 1
the American coast at a point far south- j
ward of the usual route. No suspicious
craft were sighted, they said
Swedish Premier to Resign.
COPENHAGEN, via London, October
16.?The Polltiken says that M. Hammarskjold,
the Swedish premier, will
resign and that he will be succeeded
by K. A Wallenberg, minister of
foreign affairs,
4
PLEA or FARMERS
IGNORED JE SAYS
Mr. Hughes Cites Request for
Hearing Prior to Enactment
of Adamson Law.
SPEAKS AT HASTINGS, NEB.
HASTINGS, Neb.. October 16.?
Charles E. Hughes today told a crowd
of farmers here that the democratic administration
had ignored the agricultural
interests of the country in urging
the enactment of the Adamson law.
The nominee, in support of his contention.
cited a telegram from President
H. N. Pope of the Texas Farmers'
Union to President Wilson, requesting
that the farmers be permitted to submit
data in arbitration proceedings between
the railroads and the brotherhoods.
Air. Hughes also referred to "invisible
government."
"Let me say this." lie said: "Those
who are declaiming to the American
public invisible government had better
remember that when I was in executive
responsibility in the state of New
York there was no invisible government
in that state.
"I want to say in reference, to rates
that it seems t6 me that the farmers of
the country were very little considered
the other day when on the demand of
the administration the wages of a
grotip of railroad workers were increased
by law, in response to force.
Somebody has got to pay the increased
bills, and the farmers will know very
quick who has to pay them.
Farmers Not Represented.
"The farmers were not represented in
this discussion, if you may call it that,
in this surrender. I have here a copy
of a telegram that was sent to the
President by Mr. Pope, the president of
the State Farmers' Union of Texas,
whicli I shall read to you:
" 'We ask that you make no concessions
or commitments that will in any
manner cause an increase in freight
rates on products, produced or consumed
on the farm. The men who pay the
freight have an equity in this dispute
which neither the railroad trainmen
nor the railroad managers have authority
to represent. If it is your intention
to personally dispose of the
matter, we ask that you postpone further
consideration until a committee
of farmers can prepare information and
data to present their side of the case.
If you conclude to settle by arbitration
then the organized farmers should have
representation on any arbitration committee
that may be formed to dispose
of this question, for the men who pay
should have representation as well as
the men who receive it.
" 'We again urge that all questions
involved be sett?ed by arbitration,
where all parties and all interests can
be heard and the subject be dealt with
aside from haste and intimidation.' "
Message Ignored, He Says.
The crowd cheered when Mr. Hughes
concluded reading the telegram. "No
regard was paid to that message," Mr.
Hughes said. "The business men of the
country, through the Chamber of Commerce
of the United States, were at the
same time and had for many weeks before
been imploring the executive and
leaders in Congress for an immediate
ana prompt inquiry in order that the
justice of this matter might be known.
Tne farmers were not mere, exc.pt
through the presence of the representatives
of the people in Congress, and
those representatives were asked to.
abdicate their authority, and the executive,
instead of stanuing for the official
and moral power of the American
people, v here a great fundamental
principle of our institutions was involved
threw up his hand, gave up the
principle of arbitration and went into
Congress demanding an increase by
law, without inquiry or knowledge of
its justice, of wages amounting to millions
of doiiars, suggesting that there
would be an increase of freight rates,
if necessary, to pay the bill.
"i am opposed to that sort of government.
It is not government which can
have any regard, or can be deemed to
have any regard for the just interests
of communities like this. ( am in favor
of everything that can reasonably be
done for the promotion of agriculture.
I am glad to note the work, of the
Agricultural Department. Jt v.ill be
continued with me. If 1. am intrusted
with power, to the utmost of efficiency,
under my administration.
Action Taken Despite Protest.
"But it is idle to talk of interest in
the farm when you have action like this
taken in Congress, over night against
the protests of the farmer and leveling
a body biow at the interests of our agricultural
co n 1 muni t! es.
"It is also Idle to speak of special interest
in the farmers when we have the
policy of tne administration outlined in
such a bill as the L'nderwood bill."
Mr. Hughes again denied the declaration
thai a vote for him "meant a vote
for war."
"The farmers of this country have
always been patriotic in sentiment," he
difficulty where we did not have the
boys responding from our farms. J
don't believe there is any decadence in
the spirit of America. But I stand
here as a man of peace and 1 say it is
an atrocious misrepresentation for anybody
to go through the land proclaiming
to the American people that a vote
for me is a vote for war. What a preposterous
statement for the interests
of peace! We desire to pursue th~
ideals of peace. We have always stood
up for the national dignity of^the
American citizenship.
"Are those things incompatible?
"Well, when it is found that they are
incompatible the American nation will
go straight down to disaster. There is
no smdi thing as a lasting peace at the
price of your self-respect, of your selfesteem.
and the confidence of other
nations. We desire the friendship of
all. We hav< no aggressive
We do not seek to exploit anybody.
We do not invite any country to go to
war. We ask nothing but our known
rights."
Near End of Nebraska Tour.
LINCOLN. Neb., October 16.?Charles
E. Hughes left Lincoln at 7:30 a.m. today
for his second day's campaign in
Nebraska. The nominee spent Sunday
quietly here, seeing no callers, and appeared
to be refreshed by the rest. He
went in the forenoon to the First Baptist
Church and heard a temperance sermon
by the Rev. Samuel Batten, who urged
the congregation "not to forget while
voting for Mr. Hughes, to vote also for
the prohibition amendments" in Nebraska.
Mr. Hughes expocted to go for an
automobile ride in the afternoon, but rain
prevented. His program today called-, for
thirty-minute stops at Hastings and
Fremont, an hour at Grand Island and
fifteen minutes at Columbus. He is due
at Omaha at 6:45 p.m., and will speak
there tonight. Tomorrow he will go into
South BahoO and Iowa.
i
r
!
MARSHALL CASE ADVANCED
BY U. S. SUPREME COURT
Hearing on Charge of Contempt of ;
House of Representatives Set j
for December 7.
, i
A motion to advance for earlier argument
the case of United States Dis- j
j trict Attorney H. Snowden Marshall of
' New York, charged with contempt of
the House of Representatives, was today
granted by the Supreme Court of
; the United States and hearing ordered
! December 7. Robert B. Gordon, ser- j
[ geant-at-arms of the House, requested
' oyrlior /'f?nsMlf>rAlion. before the ores
ent Congress expires, March 4 next, j
stating that should a decision be de- j
laycd until after that time only a;
moot law question would remain and j
the present House would l?e deprived of i
the right to try the New York district;,
attorney.
While tin* House judiciary su1>coni-j
I mitt.ee last February was investigat-j
i ing impeachment charges made by;
Representative Buchanan of Illinois'
! against Mr. Marshall, the latter was
charged by the House with contempt
| for writing a letter alleged to reflect
i upon the motives and conduct of the
j subcommittee's inquiry, in the present !
i proceedings he is appealing to the Su|
preme t'ourt from dismissal bv the fed:
eral district court at New York of his!
habeas corpus suit denying jurisdiction
of Die present House to try or punish
: him.
GAINS MADE BY BRITISH
ON FRONT IN MACEDONIA
LONDON, October 16. 12:09 |,.in.?Brit-|
! ish forces on the Struma front in Mace- '
j donia are active on the left flank of their
i line east of the river and have pushed
i their outposts farther northeast in the
j direction of Demir-Hissar, according to
f today's official announcement ??f the oper- 1
' aliens ?>f the Saloniki army. The village ;
of Bursuk, eight miles southwest of ;
; uernir-iiissar, has been entered by Bi'it- ;
j ish patrols, who drove back Bulgarian *
detachments.
SOFIA. October 1". via London, October,
1 h. ?The repulse of Orong Serbian at-J
tacks in the Monastir s- cior is reported in
aii official statement issued by the war
office today.
KAISER SEES CAP1. BRIGGS.
U. S. Military Attache at Vienna Has j
Audience With Emperor.
BERLIN, October 16, by wireless to
Sayville.?Emperor William, while vis'
iting Schonbrunn, the Austrian im!
perial palace, recently received Capt.
| Allan L. Briggs, United States military
; attache at Vienna, who is about to
| leave that capital, says an Overseas |
i News Agency statement today,
j The emperor also received the Austro- j
| Hungarian foreign minister. Baron
Burian, the Austro-Hungarian minister
at Berlin, Prince Hohenlohe-Schillingsfurst,
and the Austro-Hungarian
i minister of war. Gen. von Crobatin.
U. S. Supreme Court Defers Decisions |
No opinions upon cases argued and &
under advisement were given by the
Supreme Court of the United States
today, its first "opinion day" since the
summer vacation. Instead a number of
miscellaneous orders were announced
by Chief Justice White; other decisions
were deferred at least until October
2Z.
Boilermakers Call Off Strike. j
SAN FRANCISCO. October 16.?Twenty-two
hundred bollermakers employed
in the San Francisco and Alameda '
plants of the Union iron works and the
Moore and Scott shipyards at Oakland .
returned to work today after being for I
several days on a strike that was
caused by differences with the shipittters'
union. The trouble was settled at
mass meeting of the two unions.
f
jj5
A M
gEGU'
THE f
1P,W TAIN El
| ~ C|
^[crovk out or icr-r
CAMPAIGN BOASTERS.
RUMANIA'S POWER
GONE1SAYSBERLIN
First and Second Armies!
Crushed, According to Ger- j
man Accounts.
OUTtOOK WORRIES ALLIES
BERLIN", October 16. by wireless to i
ttayville.?"The Rumanian second army ;
iir its retreat in Transylvania lost approximately
two divisions/' says the !
Overseas News Agency. "The Rumanian
first army and the larger part of the
second army have been virtually annihi- j
la ted.
"When the successful attack was made
on the first army at Ilermanstadt by ,
the Austro-German troops tin- Rumanians
planned to send the second army
to its assistance. This plan was learned ,
from reports ol* aviators which were j
found. The second army advanced too
far to the west and was forced to re- '
treat in haste. Its retreat became a j
panicky flight. On October Bl, isolated j
detachments were still being rounded uy. j
Army Completely Disorganized.
"Captured officers say the army was !
completely disorganized. It would havt
been annihilated if Rumanian reinforce- I
mentR had not been hurried in through !
the Torzourger and Predeal passes.
"Tlie Rumanian leaders lost their
surety of decis.on. Brigades and regi-i
inents in desm-raion were moved hastily j
forward and back on railroads and ever. j
on carts. Only pitiful fragments of the .
army could be rescued from Transyl- i
vania.
j rant j lvrxnia today is clear of the Rumanians.
except for small sections near
lie border. At the same time the Rumanians'
hopes of obtaining assistance
'from the people of Transylvania have i
been frustrated. The entire Transylvania !
population and the be ler Rumanian ele- J
.me.it feel they have been delivered from '
a nightmare, as the Rumanians have been
expelled after a short reign of terror."
Rumania Worries Allies.
LONDON. October 16.?The situation
on the Rumanian frontier occupies the
leading position on the news and edi- >
torial pages of the London newspapers. ;
The Rumanians, according to the latest official
statement, have been forced back I
six or seven miles at one point into their |
own country. They are making a stand
at Rucaru, which is a small town to- i
ward the southern end of the Torzburger j
are well below the highest level of the
pass. .South of this town the road runs j
ten miles through a rolling country to !
the rail head "f Carnpulung, which is \
practically on the edge of the Rumanian '
ikI:i in :i nil Seven t V-fivC miles frnm l-in.
charest.
The Times notes: "The enemy has advanced
into Rumania, through the Torzburger
pass and the Rumanians are lighting
on their own soil at Rucaru. Apparently
they have temporarily lost possession
of all but the southern approaches
of Torzhurger pass. Farther north the
enemy penetrated to the crest of Oitoz
pass, but was then driven back in a
lierce encounter. In the other passes
the enemy is making no progress, but
until effective help reaches the Rumanian
second army we must expect varying
fortunes in this district."
Repulsed, Bucharest Reports. I
BUCHAREST, October 16, via London,
4:47 p.m.?The repulse of Austro-German
attacks- in Transylvania is announced
in today's official statement, 1
which follows: "On the northern and '
northwestern fronts at Tulghes and in j
the upper Bicaz valley there has been a I
Molent i.rti le*;' action. Attacks made
by enemy infantry were repulsed, and
we took forty prisoners. In the Uzul ;
valley artillery engagements took place. .
"We repulsed enemy attacks on the i i
uiz aiie . the enemy 11
violently attacked troope on the frontier.
as driven back beyond the border,"
_ ^ ^
i
I
AN'" joSlU?U
' * ^ h? ?ai0?fcRP?
Murn-^R
P.A?L?rEEOT0 DO
wor.k-, !
ie result ?s SAID To b?
^owless.somewuat deed
bird, but a HAppy I
ommuntry, !
j
HUMANE ASSOCIATION
MEETS IN CINCINNATI
Fortieth Annual Convention Welcomed
by Mayor and President
of Chamber of Commerce.
CINCINNATI, October 16.?Mayor
George Puchta and William B. Melish,
president of the chamber of commerce,
welcomed delegates from more than ;
twenty states at the opening of the
fortieth annual meeting of the American
Humane Association here today.
The convention will be in session four
days. The president's annual address
was delivered by Dr. Wiliam O. Stillman
of Albany, X. Y., who has been
president of the association for the
past eleven years.
John D. Lindsay, president of the
New York Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Children, spoke on "The
Practical Operation of Laws for the
Relief of Necessitous Mother:."
The convention will take up matters!
relating to children only during the
first two (jays, while the last two days
will be devoted exclusively to the care
and prevention of cruelty of animals.
BRINGS DOWN FIFTH MACHINE.
Sergt. Luffcery, American Aviator
in French Army, Wins Distinction.- i
PARIS, October 16.?Sergt. Raoul
Lufbery of New Haven, Conn., the first
American to be mentioned in a communique
for bringing down five hostile
aeroplanes, is known as the American j
who thought himself a Frenchman. |
Lufbery's parents died when he was j
very young, and he was brought up by
a family at Bourse's. At the age of {
thirteen he ran away from home and
wandered all over the world, turning;
his hand to all sorts of trades. At i
Saigon lie met the aviator Marc Pourpe,
who trained him as his assistant.
The first time that Lufbery discovered
that he was an American was
when, on the outbreak of the war, lie
went to enlist with Pourpe. He was
rejected on account of his nationality, 1
but. after many appeals, was allowed (
to go with Pourpe as his mechanic.
Pourpe was killed ijpon afterward, 1
and Lu'bery swore to avenge him. He i
importuned his superiors to allow him j
1o train as a pilot, arid his request was J
finally granted. Lufbery got his pilot's \{
certificate last year and was transfer- 1
red to tlic American flying corps when j '
it was formed. He brought down all of
the five German machines required for ! 1
mention in a communique since July j ;
30. The first three were destroyed ; 5
within three days. j
ON 9.000-MILE JOUBNEY. j
Champion Boy Fanners of California ;
in Quest of New Ideas.
BERKELEY. Cal., October 16.?In '
quest of new ideas in farming, the j
twenty-four champion boy farmers of j
California left here today on a 9,000- j J
mile journey. They won this trip in a|f
soecial car by defeating 1.100 competi- ! .
tors in the University of California's | [
annual crop-growing contests for high
school agriculture clubs.
These boys are led by Prof. D. If.
Crocheron of the University of C'ali- *'
fornia on a visit to the most famous a
orchards, breeding farms and agricul- l
tural industries of America, so as to
bring back to California the stimulation
of knowledge of the best methods
in farming in other parts of the court- J.
try. The university's object is to help v
train leaders for country life in California.
! t
The boys will continue east as far its j (
New York city, returning to Berkeley ?,
by way of New Orleans and Texas. J j
?:?r?:? i'1
German Victories in the Air. i J
BERLIN". October 16. by wireless to J
Sayville, N. Y.?Seventy-four hostile j
aeroplanes. of which twenty-one were!
French and fifty-three were British, were
phot down by the Germans during the h
month of September, according to an ex- 1
act list compiled by the German military 1
authorities, says an Overseas News P
Agency statement. s
ALLIES KEEPING UP !
BIG SOME DRIVE;
Both British and French Pushina
Germans With Urvre
lenting Vigor.
BERLIN TELLS OF ATTACKS;
LONDON, October 16.?On the Somme '
front in northern France the entente J1
forces are keeping up their unrelenting .
drive. |
The French last night, after having |
checked German counter attacks on the
positions won Saturday in their "pocket- i
ing" attempts around Chaulnes. south of
the Somme, resumed the offensive north
of the river.
According to Paris today, they succeeded
in penetrating German positions
at Sailly-Saillisel, pushing up to the
edge of the Bapaume road. Renewed
lighting brought on by a German counter
attack was in progress when the
official report was issued.
Counter Attack Repulsed.
The British recently have been advanc- J
ing in 1 lie vicinity of the. StvifT redoubt
and the Schwabcn redoubt in the Thiep- ;
val region on their northerly flank. Last I,
night the Germans made a strong attack n
on the new British positions near the '
Bchwaben fortification. They were heat- | \
en back with heavy losses, London do- t'
clares. ? :
An official statement issued today says: j
"Heavy hostile shelling continued at i
intervals during the night on our front i
south of the Ancre. A small hostile bombing
attack on our trenches north of i i
rv?nre#.lette wns driven back without dif- r,
ficulty.
"At Schwaben redoubt a more important
enemy attack, delivered after
heavy artillery preparation and assisted
by flammenwerfHr. also was repulsed,
with heavy loss to the enemy.
"During the night the enemy's trenches
were successfully entered by us northeast
of Ypres, southeast of St. Eloi and
east , of Floegsteert. A number of the
enemy were killed and prisoners were
taken."
Paris Reports French Success.
PARIS, October 16, noon.?Continuing
their attacks on the Somme front last
night, the French penetrated German positions
at Sailly-Sallisel the war office :
announced today. '<
They occupied houses on the edge of '
the road to Bapaume. The Germans
made a violent counter attack and the
fighting is still in progress.
Claims Ground Was Regained. J
BERLIN". October 16. via London.?
British troops yesterday attacked the
German positions northeast of Gueudecourt,
three miles ftouth of Bapaume,
and penetrated the German first line,
but the ground was recaptured after a
counter attack, says the official statement
issued today by the German army
headouarters staff.
French troops made an attack on the ;
German positions west of the town of
Sailly-Saillisel, the German statement I
adds. The attackers were driven back J
south of the village by a counter attack. I ;
tack. ,
British attacks on the Somme,
front north of Thiepval led to hand-tohand
fighting in the German lines, and at <
one point the invaders obtained a firm ,
foothold, says the official statement is- ,
sued yesterday by the German general
staff. ,
.South of the River Somme, the state- j
merit adds. French troops obtained a .
foothold in the village and sugar factory j
of Genermont. ,
Germans Fought Desperately |:
to Hold kit of High Ground
on the Ridge Above Thiepval
(Copyright, 391 <5. by rhe Associated Press.)
BRITISH FRONT IX FRANCE, October
15, via London, October 16.?In com- >
pleting the capture of Schwaben redoubt
on the ridge above Thiepval the British
took a prisoner for every yard of front, or
280 for a front of less than 300 yards; ;
not to mention the number killed by the 1
artillery preparation and in hand-to-hand j
fighting before the survivors surrendered.
The Germans manning the trench and
those in the reserve dugouts could hardly
have been crowded into one line back ]
of the parapet. This gives an idea of
the importance the Germans attached to I
that last bit of high ground along their
old trench line south of the Ancre on the
Thiepval ridge, which their desperate resistance
characterized as the most precious
two-acre plot in all France.
Repeated Counter Attacks.
After the British got the first half of 1
the redoubt the Germans made repeated r
counter attacks to recover possession of 1
it, and for the last week there had been 1
no cessation of the fighting. Now the 3
British look down all along the valley to t
1 ran de court and it is impossible, ap- 1
pareiitly. for the Germans to maintain v
Between the new British positions j
th? river along the old front line]
fortifications (xfrman infantry, com- i ^
manded by British guns from two t
sides, still stick to their maze of j e
trenches, going and coming like wood- j
bucks through their underground gal- ?
lories. A German prisoner reports ! t
.hat in this neighborhood there is ajc
-ecord size dugout capable of holding
J,500 men.
"They do hate t-> leave their happy i r
lomes. which they have been two years , J
juilding," said a British soldier. ! h
Keei^ to Their Dugouts. ; >'
Tiie big garrisons which the Ger- f
nans maintain for the most part keep o
their dugouts, rushing out when
here is any recess in the shcllfire to t,
ry to repair the damage done. When o
hev are observed the Britisli guns
r
ot loose on them. Finally, when noth- ^
ng but wreckage of trenches remains, s<
ind only the dugouts are intact, j?
British infantry charges to gain an- '
ther section of ground. *
In taking the remaining uncaptured ?
?ortion of Stuff redoubt, in the same
egion. the British took 100 prisoners J :
vith a loss of thirty-five men.
Along the center of the battle line ? hi
he British have made some attacks in I
he last week, though nut in great I ?.
frength. They succeeded in some,
daces and failed in others against the S
leavy German resistance. On the j
. hole, it was the quietest week since j
he beginning of the grand offensive. y
Rumanian Statesman Dead.
BUCHAREST, Rumania, Friday, Octo- i
ier IS, via London, October 10.?Sena-Ile
or Filipescu. ex-minister of war and j H
eailer of the Rumanian conservative I
arty, died today. He was an ardent i
upporter ot the entente powers. at
*>
NBIW TAKE UP
U-BOAT HEMS
Questions Raised in Norway,
Holland and Spain Consid
ered in Germany.
NO U. S. ISSUES TO SETTLE
BERLIN. October 15, via London, October
It*. 12:30 p.m.?Norway. Holland
?.ml Spain are now playing the leading
parts in Germany's international submarine
problem, to the subordination of
the United States, which so long
md so often has held the center of the
stage. The Associated Press correspondent
discussed the present situation
today w ith Dr. Alfred Zimmermann, uiij.
tier-secretary for foreign affairs, who
indicated that the tables had been
leared and that no negotiations were.
:n progress as far as lh?- United States
was concerned. He outlined developments
regarding other neutrals.
The case of Holland is simplest. It
onoerns only the Bloomersdijk. which
v\as sunk oh" the New England coast
many is unwilling to accept the cabled
version of the circumstances under
which the Bloomersdijk was sunk and
is convinced the submarine commander
must have kept within the German
prize regulations, as strictly enjoined.
Kull compensation has been offered in
event the commander exceeded his instructions.
Grievances of Spain.
Spain's grievances have to do with
the sinking of fruit steamers. Strictly
speaking, these arc valid prizes, because
the cargo is contraband, botmd
for hostile ports. The Spanish government,
however, has pointed out that
the prosperity of the country, and particularly
of the great class of small
fruit raisers, has been affected, seriously
by interruptions of this trade, and Germany
lias offered to let such ships pass
unmolested if they are provided 'with
proper certificates from German consuls
and if the* entente allies permit
similar cargoes?ship for ship?to pass
for the German market. No reply has
been received.
Situation in Norway.
The Norwegian measures barring
submarines from Norwegian waters in
accordance with the British memorandum
are regarded as incompatible with
Norwegian neutrality. No exhaustive
report on the legal aspects of the question
has as yet reached Dr. Zimmermann's
hands, but the undersecretary
said the matter undoubtedly would be
the subject of a strong protest to NorHe
took the position that Norway
was unjustified under international
law in differentiating among classes
of warships and making rules applying
to one specific class.
Speaks Highly of TT. S.
Dr. Zimmermann" spoke with high
satisfaction of the terms of America's
reply to the memorandum of the enrenfp
allies on the treatment of sub
marines. He declared it was marked
by a true spirit of neutrality.
The appearance and activity of a
German submarine off the America!)
coast had not been made the subject
of diplomatic negotiations or complications.
he continued, and all reports ?nSicated
that the German commander
bad observed in every way the le'tter
uid spirit of Germany's undertakings
with the United States. He said
no communications on thxit subject had
been received, either through the German
embassy at Washington or
through the American embassy here.
Precautions by the St. Paul.
NEW YORK, October 16.?When the
American lino steamship St. Paul,
which arrived here yesterday from
England, approached the American
coast Saturday night she was brilliantly
illuminated, so that no German
submarine might mistake her for a
vessel of the entente allies. Passengers
said that immediately .after sunset
every light on board was glowing,
and Capt. A. R. Mills, one o fthe veteran
transatlantic commanders, ordered
also that a cluster of lamps be
swung out to port and to starboard so
passing craft might distinguish the
American flag painted on either side.
So underwater craft was sighted.
Monroe Doctrine Violated
by German Submarine U-53
Is View of a French Writer
PARIS, October 13, via London, Ocober
16.?According to Jean Herbette,
nilitary strategist and writer on inernational
affair?;, the German subnarlne
U-53 made a breach in the
Jon roe doctrine, by sinking vessels off
0 be seen whether the United States
fill "sustain the celebrated American
radition or let it be cast aside."
"France is only a disinterested
pectator in the debate," says M. Herlette,
"because it makes little differnee
to her whether the Germans
-perate on one side of the Atlantic or
he other, out it will produce a great
har.gc in the political equilibrium of
he world if the doctrine shall be abogatod
by President Wilson. The
eft'ersonian maxim against European
nterference 011 the other side of the
itlantic applies in fact to American
,-aters as well as to the continent
tself, and when President .Monroe, In
ormulat ing his doctrine, prohibited
luropean powers from controlling the
estir.y of the American people, he oposed
naval as well as military conrol.
One cannot be tolerated without
pen.ing the door to the other."
M. Herbette recalls the case of
'rench warships in 1S70, cruising oft.
iew York in watch for German vesels.
The French ships violated no
tws, he says, yet their action resulted
1 the American Secretary of Stato
ending a warning note to France. The
rlneipie men ium uuwii naa nut ueeu
jrgotten, he adds.
"President Wilson," says M. Herbette
1 conclusion, "was 110 less categorical,
lieri during- the present war he upeld
the same rule with regard to Engird
in the case of the steamer VinLnd."
NOT CHASED BY U-BOAT.
tireless Message From the Hellig
Olav Denies Story.
NEW YORK. October 16.?In a wiress
message from the Danish steamship
elUg Olav received here today by
sents of the Scandinavian-A merlcan
ne, Capt. Hoist, master of the hip.
A&ul that no submarine had. been A
* m
