TIME
VOL. XX NO. 181.
BARRK, VERMONT, MONDAY, OCTOBER 1910.
PRICK, ONE CEXT.
THE BARJRE.
DAILY
GERMANS
FORCED BACK
But They Resist British and
French Attacks Tenaciously
-
i
RUMANIANS DRIVEN
BACK ON HOME GROUND
STRONG COUNTER
CHARGES MADE
British Gain Near Schwaben
Redoubt, French Near
Saillv-Saillisel
London, Oct. 16. The Germans last
night made a heavy attack on newly
won positions of the British in the vi
cinity of Schwaben redoubt oij the
Somme front. The war office announced
to-day that the Germans were repulsed
with heavy losses.
Xorth of Stuff redoubt, two lines of
enemy communication trenches were
cleared for a distance of nearly 200
yards. One officer and 100 men of other
ranks were taken prisoners in the course
of this operation, which was carried out
by a single company.
At the Schwaben redoubt the British
gain, was greater and the line waa ad
vanced well to the north and west of
the redoubt. Heavy losses were inflicted
on the enemy.
The total number of prisoners taken
in both operations is set at two officers
and 303 of other ranks.
To the east, near Guedeeourt, the
British also have slightly advanced their
line.
Berlin admits that the British north
of Thiepval gained a firm hold on the
German trenches and that the rrench
iroiith of the Somme have won a footing
in the sugar refinery at Genermont. The
French in Saturday's fighting in the Ab
laineourt Belloy sector made 110 Ger
mans prisoners.
Teutonic pressure against the
Rumanians along the Transylvania
frontier continues unabated, ac
cording, to the latfst official re
ports, and at one point at least,
King Ferdinand's forces have been
driven back well within their own
territory.
This crucial point for the Ruma
nians lies southwest of Kronstadt
in the southern reaches of Torz
hurger pass, where they are mak
ing a determined stand at Rucaru,
seven miles from the border. The
Teutonic thrust there is aimed in
the direction of Bucharest, which
lies " miles across the Rumanian
plain from its edge at Canpulung,
10 miles southwest of Bucaru.
A despatch from Berlin contains
a statement by the Overseas agen
cy that the Rumanian first army
and a larger part of the second
army had been virtually annihilat
ed on the Somme front in north
ern France. The entente forces
are keeping tip an unrelenting
drive. In Macedonia, the entente
forces have resumed their strong
offensive south of Monastir. Sofia
declares the Bulgarians frustrated
attempts on the lines west of the
Monastir-Florina railway and in
the bend of the river Cerna.
IS INCENSED
WITH NORWAY
Germany Plans to Send
Strong Protest on Sub
marine Bar
SPAIN AND HOLLAND
IN NEGOTIATIONS
Zimmerman Says Germany
Is Pleased with Amer
ican Attitude
GERMANS "GOT"
74 AEROPLANES
IN SEPTEMBER
Paris, Oct. 16. Continuing their at
tacks on the Somme front last night,
the French penetrated German positions
at Sailly-Saillisel and Sailliel, the war
office announced to-day. They occupied
houses on the edge of the road to Bap-
aume. J he Germans made a violent
counter attack and fighting is still in
progress. '
Of the Total Hostile Machines Brought
Down 53 Were British, According
to Statement Made in
Berlin.
Berlin, via wireless, Oct. 16. Seventy-
four hostile aeroplanes, of which 21 were
French and 53 British, were shot down
by the Germans during the month of
September, according to a list compiled
by military authorities, says the Over
seas agency statement to-day.
"This publication, savs the statement,
after describing the makes of machines
and giving other details, ''is illustrative
of the worth of the declaration recently
made by Premier Asquith in the House
of Commons that British aeroplaneg bad
gained complete domination of the air."
KILLED IN AUTO OVERTURN.
VILLAGE CAPTURED
ON STRUMA FRONT
British Advanced Their Outposts North
east in the Direction of Demir
Hissar, Taking the Village
of Bursuk.
London, Oct. 16. British forces on the
Struma front in Macedonia are active on
the left flank of their line, east of the
rivor, and have pushed their outposts fur-
ther northeast in the direction of Demir-
Hissar. According to to-day's official an
nouncement of the operations of the Sa
lon iki army, the village of Bursuk, eight
miles southwest of Demir-Hissar, has
been entered by British patrols, who
drove back Bulgarian detachments.
RUMANIANS STILL RETIRE.
But They are Offering Stiffer Resistance
te Teutons.
liondon, Oct. 10. -Although the Ru
manians in northeast Transylvania con
tinue to fall back before the Austro
Germans from the region all along the
battle line to the vicinity of Orsova on
the Danube they not alone are giving
battle to their adversaries but at several
points by violent counter attacks have
gained an advantage over them.
Bucharest admits the retirement of
the Rumanian forces in the Kaliman
mountains on the northwest front, but
says farther south mfantrv of the Teu
tonic allies were put to flight by their
artillery tire, successes also were ob
tained by the Rumanians in the Oituz
valleys where violent attacks were re
pulsed with heavy casualties. On both
sides of the Szurduj pass the Rumanians
continued on the offensive, but Berlin
saya their attacks have been repelled.
Teutons Recapture Heights.
To the north of the region in the Car
pathian mountains the Austro-Gormans
have recaptured the heights of Smotrec
In Volyhnia violent fighting has again
broken out. Here both the Russians and
the Teutonic allies claim successes for
their force, Petrograd says that north
of Korytniza the Russians captured a
German trench inflicting heavy casualties
on its occupants. Along the Stokhod,
says Berlin, Russian attacks were repulsed.
Erwin B. Moulton Crushed Near Ports-
mouth, N, H.
Portsmouth, X. If., Oct. 16. Erwin B.
Moulton, aged 35. a prominent contractor
and builder of Xorth Hampton, X. H.,
was killed last night when the automo
bile he was driving went over an em
bankment and turned turtle on the post
road to York, about midway between
Sice's bridge and the Kittery line.
In the ear at the time were Mrs. Moul
ton and her guest, Miss Louise Burgess of
Winter Hill, Somerville, and Harold Me
Kone of Dover.
The accident happened shortly before
8 o'clock at a point where there is a
sharp curve, and Mr. Moulton, who was
driving the machine, instead of taking
the curve continued straight abend and
went over the embankment. He was
pinned under the machine and his chest
crushed by the steering wheel. His lungs
also were punctured.
The other occupants of the car sticeed
ed in extricating themselves, and with
the aid of another automobile party that
came along shortly afterwards got Mr.
Moulton out from under the cnr.
The entire party was rushed to the
Portsmouth hospital with all possible
speed, but Mr. Moulton lived only 20
minutes after reaching the hospital. His
i A i t ' i , cr .
who was sevcieiy uiuiffti mm is minei
ing from the shock. 'Miss Burgess was
considerably bruised about the body and
was also cut about the head and face.
Although she was pinned under the au
tomobile no bones were broken. Mr. Mc-
Kone was bruised and badly shaken. The
car was wrecked. The party was return
ing from a trip to York Beach when the
accident happened.
Berlin, via London, Oct. 10. Xorway,
Holland and Spain are now playing lead
ing parts in Germany's international sub
marine problem to the subordination of
the United States which so long and so
often has held the center of the stage.
The Associated Press correspondent, dis
cussed the present situation to-day with
Dr. Alfred Zimmerman, under-secretary
for foreign affairs, who indicated that
the tables had been cleared and that no
negotiations were in progress so far as
the United States is concerned.
The case of Holland is the simplest and
concerns only the Ulooinersdijk, sunk off
the New Lngland coast by the U-53. lull
compensation has been offered m the
event it is shown that the commander
of the submarine exceeded his instruc
tions. .Spain's grievances have to do
with the sinking of fruit steamers. Xor
wegian measures barring submarines
from Norwegian waters is regarded as
incompatible with Norwegian neutrality
and Dr. Zimmerman s:iid the matter
would undoubtedly be the subject of a
strong protest to Norway.
Zimmerman spoke with high satisfac
tion of the terms of America's reply to
the memorandum of the allies on the
treatment of submarine. He declared
it was marked with the true spirit of
neutrality. The appearance and activity
of the German submarine off the Ameri
can coast has not been made the subject
of diplomatic negotiation or complica
tions, be declared. He said that no com
munications on the subject had been re
ceived.
A CENTUVY OJ D.
Yet Brattlcboro Woman Held Joyful Cel
ebration Sunday.
RrattleWo, Oct. 10. Mary Field Hart
ley, willow of Hannibal Hadley, observed
with a reception in her home yesterday
afternoon from 3 to 5 o'clock the 100th
anniversary of her birth 1n West Brat
tleboro. She was the recipient of 100
roses from Miss Mary Cabot, of many
beautiful flowers from the Woman's as
sociation of the .Center Congregational
church, of which she has been a member
since 1838, and by special gifts from the
Mary Field Hadley class ot 4 hat Sunday
school. There were numerous other remembrances.
Mrs. Hadley is in remarkable health,
considering her years, and knits and
reads a great deal. (She arises late in the
morning and enjoys a nap in the after
noon, hut does not retire usually until
about 11 o'clock at night. While many
called yesterday afternoon to extend con
gratulations, Mrs. Hadley apparently
showed no ill effects of the unusual ac
tivity. She is a daughter of David and Patty
Wood Field. She graduated from the
local schools at the oge of 14 years and
taught school in East Xorthfield, Ver
non and Dummerston several terms. She
also gave sewing lessons. At 20 years
of age she married Hannibal Hadley,
proprietor of a meat market. He died
many years ago. At the age of ten
years she made a stse coach trip from
Brattlcboro to Boston to visit an uncle,
leaving here at 3 in the morning and
reaching Boston about 10 o'clock at
night. Six years ago she. enjoyed her
first automobile ride; but says she pre
fers a horse and carrisga.
Two of the four children born to her
are living. They are Mrs. Emily Hunt
ington Emerson, with whom she lives,
and Mrs. Elizabeth Dolman Selleck, who.
lives in the other part of the double
house, which has been Mrs. Hartley's
home for 75 years. !i
ALLIES' REPLY
FALLS SHORT
Note on Mail Censorship Is
Not Thought to Be
Satisfactory
NO REPLY LIKELY
BEFORE ELECTION
Allies Are Planning to Main
tain the Firmest
Attitude
DEATH OF MRS. 0. D. SHURTLEFF.
TO ERECT HOSPITAL.
STRANGE DISEASE
SPREADS IN GERMANY
EXPLOSION AROUSED SUSPICION
NORMAN PRINCE DIES.
Chicago Lawyer Fatally Injured While
Flying for France.
Becrly, Mass., Oct. 16. Xorman
Prince, the American aviator, who was
wounded recently in France while flying
for the allies, died yesterday of his in
juries, according to a cable message re
ceived oy nis mother. lhe message,
w hich was sent by tch young man's uncle,
Dr. Morton Prince, who is in Paris, gave
no particulars.
Prince's father, Frederick H. Prince, is
dangerously ill with typhoid fever and
lias not been notified of his son's death,
l'rince, a graduate of Harvard nniver
bity, gave tip the practice of law in Chi
cago to serve in the French aviation
corps and gained the rank of sergeant
major. Last week he was decorated for
distinguished service.
That Building at East Machias, Me., May
Have Housed Mystery.
East Machias, Me., Oct. 16. An, ex
plosion that shook this village about 4
a. m. Saturday and was heavy enough
to be heard a distance of 10 miles, re
vealed the fact that a building at the
head of navigation on the East Machias
river had been used secretly as a store
house for some powerful explosive. Ef
forts to ascertain the ownership of the
explosive were unsuccessful yesterday,
the authorities placing little credence in
the suggestions of some citizens that a
hidden cache for submarine warfare had
been discovered. Reports that boats had
been heard passing up the river during
the heavy storm of Friday night and
Saturday morning could not be confirmed
and telephone messages from the coast
guard station at Cross island and from
Cutler, at the mouth of the river, showed
that no strange craft had been seen in
that vicinity.
The demolished building was owned
by Carroll Dennison of this village, and
was used as a hsh stand for a short time
each year in catching alewives. It was
built in the middle of the river
So-Called Tin Sickness Taking in Thou
sands of People, Chiefly in Large
Centers of Population.
London, Oct. 16. According to trav
elers from Germany, says the Exchange
Telegraph company's Amsterdam corres
pondent, a remarkable disease is spread
ing in many parts of Germany, especial
ly in Berlin, Hamburg, Munich and Co
logne. The disease is caused by contin
ual feeding from preserved foods, and
the sickness is described as tin sickness,
considered a serious form of blood poison.
Thousands of cases are reported in ev
ery large city.
In Memory of Late Bishop De Goesbriand
in Burlington.
Burlington, Oct. 16. Announcement
was made yesterday morning at all the
churches of the Catholic diocese of Bur
lington of the decision to erect a hos
pital as a memorial to the late Bishop
DeGoesbriand, the 10th anniversary of
whose birth occurs this year. The Rt.
Rev. J. J. Rice's pastoral letter, which
made the announcement to the congrega
tions, was read in each church and con
tained a very warm tributo to Bishop
DeGoesbriand.
The hospital, details of which have not
been planned, will be erected on the lot
at the corner of Pearl and South Pros
pect Btrccts, diagonally opposite the med
ical college of the University of Ver
mont, land that was purchased by Bis
hop DeGoesbriand himself and present
ed to the diocese. The cost of the struc
ture has not yet been estimated, nor
the probable time of its commencement.
the new hospital will be erected on the
site of what was originally an orphanage j
and afterwards St. .Joseph's college. The
building was torn down some 16 years
ago. Since then the project of a Cath
olic hospital has been discussed, but it
was only recently that the decision to
use this site was made.
Washington, D. C, Oct. 10. Examina
tion of the allies' note on censorship of
mails, made public yesterday, has
brought a feeling among officials that it
does not satisfactorily meet the protests
set forth in the American note of May
24, which said that "only a radical
change restoring to the United States
its full rights as a neutral power will
satisfy this government."
The state department has watched
with interest, however, the informal ar
rangements made by British authorities
through their trade department and
through such conferences as that of Sir
Richard Crawford in Xew York recent
ly, and is understood to feel that resent
ment among American citizens has been
diminished. It is thought unlikely that
a reply will be made before election.
All the information reaching' the de
partment is understood to indicate that
the entente allies have determined to
maintain the firmest attitude on the sub
ject, feeling that absolutely vital inter
ests are involved. Officials are said to
feel, tJierefore, that any further positive
Wife of Third Ward Alderman Passed
Away Sunday.
Mrs. Kdna C. Shurtleff, wife of Alder
man (). D. Shurtleff of the third ward,
passed away at her 'home, ,'i20 Xorth
Main street, Sunday morning at 5:45
o'clock. Mrs. Shurtleff had been in fail-,
ing health for some time and for the
past three months her condition had been
critical. She leaves her husband and her
brother, Fayette T. Cutler, of this city.
Several nephews and nieces also survive.
Mrs. Shurtleff was born Edna Cutler Oct.
3. 18.r8, one of four children born to Ora
Cutler and Didama (Thurston) Cutler,
Orange was her native town, the Cutler
homestead being located at Cutler corner
Her marriage to Mr. Shurtleff took place
in Barre Oct. 0. 1876. To them one son,
Morton Shurtleff, was born. He died at
the age of nine years. The deceased w-as
a member of the Universalist church and
belonged to the ladies' union of the
church in Barre. Through months of de
clining health she bore her suffering pa
tiently and to a circle of friends that
was constantly widening she leaves as a
heritage the memory of one who regard
ed death as obedience to a natural law
and who continued to radiate kindness
and cheer to the end.
The funeral will lie held at the house
Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock. Rev.
.1. B. Reardnri, pastor of the Universalist
church, will be the officiating clergyman
and interment will be made in the fam
ily lot at Klmwood cemetery.
STEAMER SAW
NO SUBMARINE
Hellig-Olav Reports None
Was Sighted by
It
EUNICE DEWEY SMITH.
Daughter of Mrs. Isabella D. Smith Died
Sunday Morning.
Miss Eunice Dewey Smith, daughter of
Mrs. Isabella Dana "Smith and the late
Charles A. Smith, passed away at her
home, 81 Elm street, Sunday morning
after an illness of several months.
Miss Smith was born in Barre Aug. 10,
1875. She attended the public schools
and was graduated from Spaulrting high
school in the class of 1804. the first class
that was graduated from the institution.
In 18!)5 she entered the University of
Vermont and was graduated in the class
of Htm. Later she took a special course
in high school training in the Bridg
water, Mass.. State Xormal, and for the
past ten years had been engaged in high
EARLY REPORT HAD
VESSEL PURSUED
White Star Liner Bovic TN?
of Seeing Submarine CI
ing the Hellig-OJ
Xew York, Oct. 16. A wireless mes
sage from the Danish steamer Hellig-
Olav, which was received to-day by the
agents of the Scandinavian 'American
line, stated that no submarine was sight
ed. Observers aboard the Wliit.it Ntur
liner Bovic, which arrived Saturday, re
ported they saw the periscope of a sub
marine on Jriday, and that the under-sea,
lMiat apparently was pursuing the Helliit-
Ola v.
LINER ST. PAUL ALL AGLOW.
step by the United States might brinpr j HOhool work, for the last three years
the controversy to a much more critical
stage.
CHARLES WYNNE ARRESTED.
MEXICAN CONDITIONS BETTER.
According to Letter Sent by President
Wilson to Gov. Whitman.
Long Branch, X. J., Oct. 16. President
Wilson in a letter to Governor Whitman
of Xew York, sent October 9 and made
public here yesterday, declared that the
emergency w-hieh led to the sending or
the inilitm to the Mexican border "un-
appilv still exists." He added, how
ever, that he believed conditions in north
crn Mexico are improving and that "in
the near future" it will probably be pos
sible to 'do more than has been done to re
lieve the embarrassments under which
organized militia regiments have neces
sarily suffered.
President ilson wrote to Governor
Whitman in answer t a letter from the
XeW York executive regarding the New
York militia organizations on the birder.'
The president told Mr. Whitman that it
was impossible to set a date on which the
remaining Xew York regiments there
could be released.
The president in his letter declared he
had been advised by the war depart
ment that a withdrawal of the militia
at any time since they were sent to the
border "would in all human likelihood
have been followed by fresh aggressions
from Mexico upon the lives and property
of the people of the I nited States.
HER BROTHER WOUNDED.
Mrs. J. Arthur Charbonneau of St. Al
bans Gets Word.
St. Albans, Oct. in. Mrs. J. Arthur
Charbonneau of Pearl street, this city,
has received news that her brother, X.
Kobcrge, formerly of this city, now serv
ing with the allies, in the 41st regiment,
in France, was wounded Oct. I. Xo de
tails have been received yet. The news
came to Mrs. Charbonneau in a letter
from her mother, Mrs. Arthur Kobcrge,
of Montreal. Mr. Robcrge enlisted with
the Home Guards at Montreal. Two years
ago he was transferred Lorn the 65th to
the 41st regiment. He has been on the
firing line the past year. His wife and
two children are living in Montreal. Mr.
Robcrge has been a frequent visitor in
the city since he left here several years
ago.
Charged with Theft in Burlington Part
of Money Recovered.
Burlington, Oct. 16. Charles Wynne,
who claims to hail from Montpelier, was
arrested about 1 o'clock yesterday morn
ing on a warrant issued by State's Attor
ney T. E. Hopkins, charged with the
theft of a poeketbook containing nine
dollars from Christine gSumnerg, who was
visiting at 09 Church street, the home of
Wynne's brother.
The complaint was made at the .police
department in the early evening and
later to the state's attorney, who issued
the warrant. According to the story told
to the state's attorney, Wynne was in the
house on Church street and while the
others were attending to the paying of
a woodman he took the poeketbook
from the center table and then took
Dutch leave. Louis lrombley, w-ho was
delivering the wood, claims to have seen
him. Wynne was found on Battery
street in the vicinity of the station and
taken to police headquarters. On the
way to the office the policemen heard
something drop and asking Wynne what
it was received the reply that it sound
ed like an automobile tire. After the
man had been landed at the police office
the officer went back to where he heard
the article drop and found it to le the
missing poeketbook. About two of the
nine dollars were missing.
teaching ancient history and ftin in the
high school of Woodstock. She is sur
vived by her mother and one brother,
Albert 6. Smith of Port Jefferson, Long
Island. X. Y.
Miss Smith was of a quiet nature, but
one who took a deep interest in life in all
of its higher and finer aspects. She was
a member of the Barre Congregational
church. She also was a member of the
Daughters of the American Revolution
and took an active interest in the wel
fare of the chapter, to which she was at
tached.
Funeral services will be held nt the
home Tuesday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock
Rev. J. W. Barnett, pastor of the Barre
Congregational church, will be the ofu
ciating clergyman and interment will be
made in the family lot in Elmwood ceme
tery
Arrived at New York with Lights Burn
ing to Avoid Torpedoing.
Xew York, Oct. 10. When the Amer
ican line steamship St. Paul, which ar
rived here yesterday from England, ap
proached the American coast Saturday
night she was brilliantly illuminated so
no German submarine might mistake her
for a vessel of the entente allies.
Passengers said that immediately aft
er sunset every light on board wasglow
ing and Capt. A. R. Hills, one of the
veteran trans-Atlantic commanders, or
dered also that a cluster of lamps be
swung out to port and starboard so pass
ing craft might distinguish the American
flag painted on either side.
MAKING PREPARATIONS EARLY
FIRE VICTIM'S FUNERAL.
CREAMERY DEST0YED.
FARM FIRE AT WC3DST0CK.
ELEVEN LIVES LOST.
v French Pancakes Use any good pan
cake batter, except buckwheat, and bake
in small, round, thin pancakes. Spread
with jelly nr i.-m, n.ii up. prinkle with
powdered s"- ' -. i v '.
As Two Sections of Trains Came To
gether.
Elwood, Xeb., Oct. 16. Ten men were
killed and 11 others seriously injured
when a train on the Burlington rail
road crashed into the freight caboose in
which they were riding 12 miles east of
Tup Ihere yesterday. Five other men standing
owner said He had not visited the place on the rear platform of the caboose saw
for several months and that he had no l"e iram enougn i
knowledge that anything was stored Jl,mP to eatety- One other man in the
there. The theory. held is that someone caboose cupola was thrown clear of the
had taken advantage of the fact that the wreck and escaped injury,
locality was unfrequented to hide dyna- Tt,e trains in collision were sections of
mite in the building. The quantity of j regular stock train. Lack of signals
explosives was apparently large, judging j'1 Riven as the cause of the accident. All
House and Barn Burned, Together with
Some Livestock.
Woodstock, Oct. 16. The house and
barn on a farm on the South Woodstock
road owned by Charles M. White and oc
cupied by his son, John White, were
burned last, night. Three or four cows,
a horse and a hog, farming tools and a
considerable quantity of hay and grain
were lost, a part of the household goods
being saved.
The tire started in the barn and when
discovered by John White ii had gained
such headway that nothing could be done.
John nite carried some insurance on
his household goods. It would probably
cost in the neighborhood of $3000 to re
build the burned structures.
from the concussion, but the purpose for
which it was intended as well as the
cause of the explosion is undetermined.
SEN. PAGE IMPROVING.
Leaves Rutland for Atlantic City to Con
tinue Rest Cure.
Rutland. Oct. 16. U. S. Senator Carroll
S. Page, who has been in the local hos
pital for several weeks following the
campaign for the senatorial nomination
in the primary, left yesterday afternoon.
accompanied by his daughter. Miss Alice
Page, for Atlantic City, X. J., where he
plans to remain several weeks, probably
for the most or the time before the re
opening of Congress. On leaving Rutland
he aid he was feeling better than he
'- 'ir t'-c uast six mentis.
the victims were farmers or stockmen.
ARMED LINER ARRIVES.
SCHOOLS WERE CLOSED.
In North Part of Rutland Where Poliomy
elitis Case Was Found.
Rutland, Oct. 16. A case of infantile
paralysis, the second of the season in
this city, was reported Saturday to Dr.
F. H. (Jedhardt, citv health officer. The
patient is the seven-year-old son of Mr.!
and Mrs. George Frappier, who lives in
the north end of the city. The child ts
paralyzed in boHi legs. There are several
other children in the family. The Abra
ham Lincoln avenue school, of 200 pupils,
where the sick child is in the first grade,
has been closed for two weeks.
Piermont, N. H, Loses One of Its Thriv
ing Industries.
Piermont, X. H., Oct. 16. Dodge's
creamery, one of the town's thriving in
dustries, was destroyed by fire shortly
after midnight, causing an estimated loss
of $5,000, only partially covered by in
surance. The fire caught near the boiler and as
the town is without fire protection, it
was impossible to save the structure. A
pail brigade was started and only with
the greatest difficulty were nearby build
ings saved. The Howard general store,
nearby, caught several times, but the
workers were able to extinguish the
small blazes that sprang up on the roof
of the large woden store building.
The creamery was operated by Fred
E. Dodge. He had been doing a flour
ishing business, sending milk and dairy
products to local and Hoston markets,
and the loss is a severe one to himself
and the town.
That of Ervina Cardini Was Held Satur
day Afternoon.
The funeral of Ervina Cardini. only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Xatale Cardini,
whose death Thursday resulted from
burns which she received while playing
with matches Wednesday, was held at
her home, 2 Grant avenue, Saturday
afternoon at 2 o'clock. The bearers were
Margaret Walker. Barbara Tedeschi,
Maria Braghini. Lilyth Little, Mary
Cerasoli and Kdmea Bignascht. There
was a large gathering of friends and flor
al tributes were numerous. Interment
was made in Hope cemetery.
Among the floral contributions were
the following: Wreath, family; carna
tions, I). Piazza. G. Pedretti, John Tosi
and family, W. T. Campbell and family,
M. Charboneau and family, H. E. Powers
nd family, Calvin Bickford and family,
Weston Walker and family, Mrs. Agnes
Walker and family. Mrs. William Brown
and family, Mrs. Edward Erickson and
family, Mr. and Mrs. J. Braghini and
family, A. Riboni. Martinetti family, C.
Macedoni and family; roses. Arioli fam
ily, Peter Bianchi and family.
HORSEMAN KICKED IN FACE.
Cambrian Had Four-Inch Gun Mounted
on Her After-Deck.
Boston, Oct. 16. The second armed
merchantman to enter this port thisi
COAL SHORTAGE FEARED.
BURIAL AT HOPE CEMETERY.
Mrs. George Murray, Sr's., Funeral Held
Saturday Afternoon.
Funeral services for Mrs. George Mur
ray, sr., of 44 Avers street, whose death
occurred Wednesday afternoon, were held
at the house Saturday afternoon at 2
o'clock, Rev. Edgar Crossland, pastor of
the First Presbyterian church, officiating.
The bearers were as follows: . F.
Milne, W. F. Walker, William Mercer,
David Stephen, Robert Thompson and
Alexander Harper. Many testified to the
high esteem in which they held the de
ceased by contributing beautiful floral
tributes. " Interment was made in Hope
cemetery.
Philibert Fournier of Orange Was Brought
to City Hospital,
rhilibert Fournier, a well known
Orange farmer residing at Kimball cor
ner, is at the City hospital suffering from
the effects of a kick which he received
while driving his favorite horse home
from BArre Saturday evening. Just be
yond East Barre, Mr. Fournier leaned
over the dash board to release the horse's
tail from the lines. Suddenly the ani
mal lifted its hoofs, one of them striking
the farmer in the face. Dr. X. E. Avery
of East Barre was called as soon as Mr.
Fournier had made his way to his home
and the physician's examination dis
closed a probable fracture of the upper
jaw. A number ot teeth on the upper
jaw were removed and others on the low
er jaw were so loosened that extraction
will be necessary.
Mr. Fournier suffered considerable pain
For Entertainment of Cemetery Superin
tendents in Barre Next Year.
Barre's Board of Trade and semi-civic
organizations are taking time by the
forelock in preparing for the reception of
more than .m) American cemetery su
perintendents who are to assemble in
the home of Barre granite next summer
for their national convention. The Board
of Trade, the quarriers' association, the
merchants' and the granite manufactur
ers' associations were represented at a
meeting in manufacturers' hall Saturday
when committees were appointed to carry
on. the preliminary work of the Barre
Entertainment association, which was
organized for the purpose of entertaining
the visiting superintendents in August,
1017. -W. G. Reynolds, president of tho
Board of Trade, A. C. Moore of the mer
chants' association, H. P. Hinman of the
manufacturers, Robert Jones of the quar
riers and Alex Hanton. superintendent of
lhe city cemeteries, were active in the
movement that led to organization.
Supt. Hanton, who was active in per
suading the national association to come
to Barre, was chosen directing chairman
nd secretary of the new association.
Upon him will devolve much of the detail
work to be done before plans for receiv
ing the visitors are completed. Natural-
plans already formulated are wholly
tentative, but the several committees do
not intend to snare any pains in letting
cemetery superintendents all over the
country know that Barre is out to show
them a sample of its old-time hospitality
in 1017. The committees arc given below.
fieneral committee: A. P. Ablioft, Alex
A. Milne. W. G. Reynolds. Allen Reid,
Robert Jones, H. P. Hinman; finance
committee. A. P. Abbott. Guy R. Yar
num, H. J. M. Jones. William Barclay,
B. Lucchini, H. C. Ladd, Alex Duncan;
transportation committee, A. A. Milne,
H. Rogers, J. N. Gall, George X. Til-
den, J. A. Healy; entertainment commit
tee, W. G. Reynolds, E. M. Tobin, Robert
lones, H. P. Hinman; publicity commit
tee, A. C. Moore, Allen Reid. W. P. Scott,
Henry A. Phelps and H. C. Whitaker.
CELEBRATED ANNIVERSARY.
Mr.
and Mrs. Raymond Diemer Enter
tained Friends Saturday.
Twenty-five years of wedded life were
joyously celebrated by Mr. and Mrs. Ray
mond Diemer at their home on east hill
in Plaintield Saturday evening and Sun
day, when the couple kept open house to
nearly 400 people. By actual count 82
neighbors and other friends gathered at
the Diemer farm Saturday to extend
congratulations and yesterday afternoon
their number was nearly trebled. Teople
from the city, others from Plaintield and
others still from Barre Town and Mont
pelier were among those received. One
CARRIED TWELVE PEOPLE.
of the enjoyable features came yesterday
and it was decided to remove him to the j when Mr. Cappio. speaking for many who
hospital at. once. To-day his condition j had assembled, presented the couple a
was reported to be fairly comfortable. It purse of gold. Xumerous other remind
is expected that an X-ray examination -era of their anniversary were received by
will be used to disclose the exact nature' Mr. and Mrs. Diemer."
of his jaw injury.
WELD0N JACKSON.
Ceremony Took Place at Home of Bride's
Sister in Barre.
Mrs. Emily E. Jackson and Edwin D.
Wcldon of Boston were married at noon
to-day by Rev. J. W. Jtarnctt, pastor of
the Congregational church, the ceremony
home of Mr. and
Enormous Flying Boat was Demonstrated
Near Buffalo.
Ruffalo, X. Y., Oct. 16. An enormous
flying boat, built after the lines of the; taking place at the
America, rose from Lake Kcuka at the j Mrs. F. H. Rogers, 18 Orange street, the
j flying field at Hammonsport yesterday j bridge being a sister of Mrs. Rogers. The !
Afterward a
New York People are Said to Be Experi
encing Alarm.
Xew York. Oct. 16. A shortage of coal I afternoon, with eleven passengers scat-i couple were unattended
At noontide a bountiful chicken din
ner was served in the farmhouse. There
were offerings of seafood, sauerkraut, pig
knuckles and other German delicacies,
along with an abundance of condiments
for the guests, the dinner being served
on both the American ond European
plans. At night a huge bonfire lighted
the premises by way of capping the
celebration. Each guest was tabulated
by children of Mr. and Mrs. Diemer, who
reported that the nnmlier of visitors at
the farm in the afternoon aggregate!
year arrived early yesterday, when theji,jlls are being depleted, while shipments
m-yianu iincr lamnrian, Willi a lour-unh
gun mounted on her after-deck, came in
is in Prospect for this city this winter, ed in the cabin. The pilot made the 12th
according to dealers who declare their member of the party.
irom inuon. the gun, which was in
stalled as a protection against subma
rines, was manned by two members of
the ship's crew, and on the way across
barrels were thrown overboard and used
as targets to cive the men practice.
Members of the crew said that two weeks
apo they saw a Zeppelin brought down seasonable weather ! coal
in flames over London. high to expect by Christmas.
At five hundred feet the machine
ire delayed and the outlook for immedi- 'soared on the air current over the lake.
ate or eventual relief is poor. This j The return trip was made with ease and
shortage applies to both hard and soft (the landing was remarkable for its ac-
coal. The failure t receive the usual
amount of coal is attributed to the scar
city of labor at the mines and lack of
cars for transportation, due to the move
ment of war munitiu is and other freight
The new flying boat, the largest that
has ever been built, has a greater spread
of wing than the America. It is not the
tractor type. Pusher propellers are used.
Nr. and Mrs
Diemer are natives of
have resided in Barre
w elding nreaKiast was serve.! and in (;Prmanv. but
the noon hour Mr. and Mrs. Weldon
left on a bridal tour to Washington, D. jwas Kunigunda Krine and her marriage
(, Atlantic City, X. J., and Xew York' to Mr. Diemer was celebrated in St. Jo
City. .They are to reside in Boston, ! senh's Cernian Catholic church on Seneca
w here Mr. Weldon is employed as a train
dispatcher by the Boston & Maine rail
road. Wedding guests included the following:
A. T. Weldon of Monet on. X. B., a broth
er of the groom; Mr. and Mrs. Ciiv All-
avenue in iwinaio. .. i ., yx-u i.i, in'.n.
Her husband came to AmUica 32, years
ago and has always reidv in Plaintield.
Mrs. Diemer has been an American for
t?!l year. Eighteen children were born
jto them and nine are living. Mr. Diemer
for eiport. Dealers declare that withi Ihere are two propellers, each operated bee of East Hardwiek. Mr. and Mr. K. j is a prosperous farmer and with his wife
n urn, iw i ini'iri lui'mr m "o norse- ii. "imsteaa oi AlomsviHe and .Mrs. r. hoj,is me esieens oi a wine circle or
por. E. PotU of St. Johnsburv. friends.
