i ? r\ "W" / y /^/ i y If weather.
LOOK FOR THE 1^ # - CT%TW4^ J .
PLAXOGRAVURE II 'y I 1 \ i?5^ I I I I I 1 CI I I I CI I
SECTION | |/^/ W'H'WW\\ ! Fa"rtportonp,">- , ii
No. 609-No. 29.507. WASHINGTON, D. C., SUNDAY MORNING, NOVEMBER 19, 1916* ? VIVE CENTS.
NIGHT CONFERENCE
ON MEXICO IS HELD
Secretaries Lansing. Baker
and Lane Three Hours at
White House.
_ .
DISCUSS CABRERA'S STAND
The deadlock reached by the joint international
commission in session at
Atlantic ("ity to discuss Mexican border
problems was taken up last nipht
at a White House conference between
President Wilson. Secretary Lane,
chairman of the I'nited States commissioners:
Secretary Lansing and Secretary
Laker.
Mr. Lane arrived here from Atlantic
t'itv t<? report to the President on the
situation. On entering the White
House, he would not discuss the outlook.
Go Over Cabrera's Objections.
He and Secretaries Lansing and Laker
are understood to have gone over in detail
the objections raised by Luis <*abrera.
chairman of the Mexican delegates.
to the suggested plan of border
control.
Officials have made it plain that if
satisfactory arrangements for the protection
of the border can be made
Gen. Pershing's American troops in
Mexico will be withdrawn.
----- " " "* ....... C ?- L. t i mo Pr^ci .
dent Wilson and Secretary Lane have j
conferred since the President met all j
of the members of the commission at i
New London. Conn., soon after it began )
its work. Frequent reports from the
American commissioners. however,
have been received at the White House.
Remain in Conference Three Hours.
The three cabinet members remained
with the President for three hours.
Secretary Lane said afterward that he
was "well satisfied"' with the situation.
and would return today to Atlantic
City, where the conference with the
Mexican delegates will be resumed tomorrow.
Asked w hether there was any
prospect of a settlement at Atlantic
City, he replied:
"We are good settlers."
Secretary Lane refused to discuss details
either of last night's conference or
the commission's sessions at Atlantic
City. Both Secretary Lansing and Secretary
Baker referred all questions to
Mr. Lane. No statement was made at
the White House.
There were indications that definite
developments in the situation might
follow Secretary Lane's return to Atlantic
City, and that a decision one
way or the other might be reached
within a few days.
DISCUSSES MEXICAN TAXES.
Luis Cabrera Talks With American j
Owners of Mines.
NEW YORK. November 18.?
Cabrera, chairman of the Mexican section
of the Mexican-American joint i
commission, in session at Atlantic City,
N. J., conferred here with representatives
of American owners of mining
properties in Mexico. The purpose of
the conference, it was learned, was to
discuss the various mine taxation decrees
issued by the Carranza government.
TELL OF VILLAS MENACE.
Refugees From Parral Confirm Story
Aliens Are to Die.
JL'ARCZ, Mexico, November 18.?Max |
Weber, the German consul in charge of
German diplomatic affairs in northern ;
Mexico, announced here today lie had ;
received reports both from Chinese and !
Mexican refugees arriving here from !
Jirninez that Villa had ordered all of ;
the foreigners in Parral and the Parral
district killed. These refugees, he said,
had come from Jiminez after talking:
with their countrymen who had ar- |
rived there from Parral.
"They reported conditions in Parral as
being much worse than we know." I
Consul Weber said "They ? on?'.rrn? d
?he report that Vf'la ordered all foreigners
killed and they brought information
to the border That this order
was . arried out. f have received the :
?ejrort of the killing of Kdgar Kvh
and Theodore li^ernuiler from these
refugees, but I . :n h.dined to doubt i
the report of Koch's ri?-Ph. as I think
he in in hiding r.ear* Santa Rosalia Tj
i.ave grave f< r- for the saf~ry ??f the ;
fore i gne jn the Parral distii 1."
RK ft LIN 1'rjda.v, Novernb.-- ! 7. via'
London. November 18. 1:12 a.m. -With)
* ' f-r* x\> ?o -e-o't-. fro t - t *ni ted
. St?t.-s f.f rh* : >j rde.r of Kdgar Koch.'
said to h. Gerrr a ? r-nl at Parral.
M* u st-it.- ) T1. t f here is no
Oerv an < ? that name in Parral
or c:. . Mexico
Obiegor. Warns Commanders.
MKX ! *'? 1 'fTY NovmS.-r IS Wnr.l '
has . ! < !< r Al
\ ?i ro ''? <.f v, . i.:?s >< nt. j
A r 1 o tr- s n?J mil t a r y
Com ' : -i ; J ?* if th?-y
?'?. : o\ tior of il ;
In v. H- ' ?(; -; h*?M t-ont murui s th?-v j
f '1ST f ; '{? rt.-mv. Tl.?- oh- |
' '>! ' ? ;. '11. )? shi<', is to
Of 1' t
?>t .
IIF.AR OF FIGHT WITH VILLA.
IT. S. Agents Have Report. But Carranza
General Is Skeptical.
t IT, I ' \ . >.' . ? f it>? r i * ' I? > \ i
? v. .1 a
r* k )\ I.?'t\vVilla
ft, ? .1 . . ? . <:; : -1 >'i ?
Try vi no's ctiiumn near Bachimba Pass,
> * ? ? ! ? ?' * v. 1 I*-m T: *v ,
>; ?; . J t i ?-?r.>x I, i..-.- I "ft! n 1
t?. ' . It
'In . < h;ii/.a /., lit #> !<
o.'t;. . ! '. -\ . r ' i.:i * !: - "v ! no 'l<ii
1;CV. .- ti.fr -v.- it ? > - Irj.f
<"t: kna) ...
?' i i > mi id ?... i: - ;?; ? tii- 'u.
aiolai v. - V 1 r ?<
!'K; r <1 : . - I \ , : . . i m j . h- t
Villa t t?1: t ? itrain
said to liHVe a for. tf < !' > " ? ;t\a
!r;..
VILLA NOT NEAR CHIHUAHUA
Mexican Embassy Denies Report of
Kis Presence There.
!'*l>oris of tin- [u <->? !;< *- of Villa followers
r.tar ikiuahu;-. City n-crr ?!ei.ied
ir. u d:? : received iiy i;.?- M?-xIcan
y.-sWrday from Gnu Tr< vino.
The .? nl : >.-y tm? ?ra?2
:
"The emhasEy is in r? ? fcipt of news
from Gen. Trevino that the reported
presence of Villistas near Chihuahua
City is incorrect, as is also the report
that the constitutionalist forces Intend
to evacuate that city; the fact being
that (Jen. Trevino is taking the
field with a sufficient force to pursue
Villa with vigor, and proposes to carry
j mi' an active offensive campaign. Chihuahua
City has been amply fortified
1 a n 1 a sufficient number of men left
.there to protect it from any possible
attack."
WANTEARLYAGTION
ON INAUGURAL CHIEF
i
Business, Social and Civil
Circles Hope Chairman Will
' Be Named This Week.
HARPER GETS 0. K. OF MANY
?
I,e;irlprs in tlie business, social aiul
civic life of Washington?irrespective
of political party affiliations?expressed
the hope last night that the
inaugural chairman would be named j
early this week, that plans reviving the
lime-honored inaugural ball would be
approved by President Wilson, and that
the National Capital he allowed to prepare
for a monster welcome to the
world beyond on the occasion of the
inauguration March 5.
"Past time the inaugural plans suffered
because there was a delay in
the appointment of an inaugural chairman,"
said a prominent civic worker
who also holds an official position. "I
hope that there will not be such a de
lay this time. As far as I can learn
there are 110 avowed candidates for
the office^ arid so there is no occasion
for delay while rival factions reach a
compromise."
General Interest in Ball.
There seems to be a strong general interest
in the proposal that the time-honored
inaugural ball be resumed as a big
inaugural social feature. The business
men and bankers of Washington who contribute
the guarantee fund for the inaugural
expenses are particularly interested
in this matter, and say that their
contributions will be governed in a large
measure by the inaugural program and
whether it includes a ball. They believe
that this time a record-breaking attendance
can be brought here for the inaugural
ceremonies and are willing to
guarantee expenses for a lavish celebration.
but they feel that the visitors want
a ball and they want them to have it.
Practically all of the leading democrats
and business men have declared their belief
that President Wilson, prompted by
Mrs. Wilson, who is a long resident of
Washington and knows what the Inaugural
ball means in popular interest, will
sanction the plans tor the ball.
This conviction was voiced last night
by James fcs. Easbv-Smith, a representa- j
live of the seventh election district on J
the democratic central committee, who j
said: "We all want the inaugural ball :
and we are going to work for it. We j
celebrafion to be the best ever, }
Ke know th? aJ; people want)
We ball as the crowning social feature."
Resolution Goes to McCormick.
A certified copy of the resolution pass- !
ed during the week by the democratic !
central committee, composed of repre- !
sentatives from the twenty-two election :
districts, which is the legally organized
official body recognized by the national :
committee as representing the citizens :
of the District of Columbia, which in- i
dorsed Robert N. Harper for the office j
of inaugural chairman, was forwarded i
last night to Vance McCormick in New I
York. This was signed by Robert E. '
Mattingly as chairman and John B. Col- !
poys as secretary of the central com- !
mittee, and was addressed to Mr. McCor- j
mick as chairman of the democratic na- j
Clonal committee. This represents the !
official wishes of the democratic party in !
the District of Columbia regarding the ;
inaugural chairmanship.
"Mr. Harper is our only candidate. .
without compromise." said Charles W.
Darr. president of the Wilson and Mar- ;
shall Association, and other democratic. J
leaders last night when asked if there j
was any other candidate in the field. i
Harper Not a Candidate.
While Mr. Harper still insists that he is j
not a candidate, but will be glad to accept
the honor if it is offered him without j
solicitation on his part, since he wishes to
leave the President free to make the appointment.
on the grounds of efficiency '
unembarrased by anything Mr Harp r
has done in the way of securing campaign i
funds in the District, his friends are doit.g I
all they can to get the honor for him.
Although a resident of Washington. Mr. |
Harper has a summer estate in Cf-e.-burg. j
In recogmt ion or riis worn tor in? a?nio- i
eratic party in Virginia, a strong res**- j
lutiori from Rouden county was also ;
sent to New York yesterday. This was !
a handsomely engrossed document. ami j
was signed at the courthouse by delegates j
from each of the magisterial districts, ;
as well as by the chairman "f the demo- i
cratic county committee, t'harle.s Roen-1
bach, and Se< retary It. .1 N. Reed.;
to impres supor. the masses the history :
A'? ompanying this resolution was a per-'
sonal letter from K B White, president
of the People." Hank of Reesburg and
! *id<-r <:\.i and political affairs.who
lias for many years b -en an
mate je t onal friend of Mr. Mci'ormick. !
Wilson League for Harper.
A resoluf or: passed by the Wilsoti Kigi:*hour
Reague, signed by John H. Ror !i as
president and !'. A. Sughrue as secretary i
was also forwarded to New York last j
evening This also indorsed Mr. Harper i
for inaugural chairman in appreciation
parti earl;. of his activitie; during the
cainpa ig.'i
J'.!,;. ! ' < "ostello. the national mittee
man rejiresenting the I estr:< t ot < inmbn,
sn'1 i:.st night that lie has not R?-i r. .m
vised and has no idea when Mr. Me* 'or
i- will return to Wash: nglo:
si!' with President Wilson r"gardirg , .
.. it"-i.t nient of an inaugural <h. i
He he! eves no action u :i be t :t k f. I?h.Pre
dent until Mr. M-t'orm < k has .
i'os ello his said that he MievYs Mr
is the ? hoi. of tli.- peoj.U- of th.
Inst rid tor the honor.
Get Reservation Requests.
All of the principal hotels are re. ejv?
t* "reservation" requests for inaugural
week. 'Several inquiries have already
been reeei ve.J fi '.iti the staff: of
140% er'Mors and ?i"ov. James ,\t ?\,x when
i Washington th. other day stated
that ati unusually large delegation
'rom Ohio will he here for inauguration.
Several chairmen of state committee#
have a 1 so written to hotels
here asking about reservations for
their committees. The hotel proprietors
i suv that the re?]t4lsts are c oming in
' unusually earl;, and that the indica
tior.s are tha' there will be a record|
oie.iking ?' rtux c.f visitors.
President Cannot Visit Indianapolis.
IN1>1ANA?'< d,JS. Ind., Nover ber IS.?
, U il?M r<?* t an invitation
to c%me to fnrttrtn*,.. 'is !>eccmber
11. when s??lmission dsy i# to
be: observed, arid speak, il was announced
here. i i
4
CONGRESS TO RUSH
WORK; EARLY START
Great Question at Capitol Is
Whether Program Will Be
Completed March 4.
BEGIN TASKS TOMORROW
With two important congressional
conferences and the naval bill hearings
scheduled to start at the Capitol
tomorrow, the work of the second session
of this Congress will get into its
stride early, the temper of the leaders
now favoring extraordinary speed so as
to avoid an extra session of the next
Congress. The conferences are on the
subjects of railway legislation and I
water power, while the hearing is the j
regular annual grind to produce a naval
appropriation bill.
The District of Columbia's appropriation
bill hearings are expected to
start any day now. although Chairman
Page of the subcommittee in charge
of the bill has not signified the exact
date.
Will Require Sustained Work.
The great question at the Capitol is?
can the leaders press through the legislative
program to a completion by
noon on March 4, 11)17? Those who are
in the city today say they can, and add
that it will require constant attention
to business, no loss of time, no Christlmii/iyvs
comnlete control of the
floor situation at all times, and probably
night sessions.
The business of the short session of
Congress is, of course, to enact the
great supply bills, which are the nineteen
appropriation measures. This number
includes the deficiency bills and
pension bills. In addition to these, can
a limited program of legislation be carried
through?
Here ate some of the things which
were put off until the next session of
Congress in order to permit the senators
and representatives to get out of
Washington and into the campaign last
.September:
Railroad Strike Legislation.
The remainder of the President's program
dealing with the prevention of
railroad strikes. This program includes
(1) provision for the enlargement and
reorganization of the interstate commerce
commission; (2) approval by .
Congress of consideration by the interstate
commerce commission of increases
in freight rates to meet such
increases in expenditures as may be
necessary because of the adoption of .
the eight-hour law; (3) a law providing
for an investigation into industrial 1
disputes before a strike or a lockout may
be ordered; (4) a provision en- .
abling the President, in case of military
necessity, to take control of such t
rolling stock as may he required for <
military use.
The so-called conservation bills, including
the waterpower and dam #>|te *
bills and the oil, coal and phosphate <
lands leasing bills. These measures j
are demanded by many of the demo- I
crats from the west, and they were 1
laid aside with the specific understand- j t
intr last session that, thev should be <
taken up in December. The part the jf
west player! in re-electing President 11
Wilson will lend weight to the de- i
mands of the western senators and representatives,
it is said.
Fight on Immigration Bill.
The immigration bill, with the liter- ,
acy test, insisted upon by democratic;
senators and representatives from the j
south, arid which was put over with the j
specific understanding that it would be
considered at the coming session. It is
sure to bring about a long fight.
The Owen corrupt practices bill,
which is the unfinished business of the.
Senate.
The Webb bill, to permit combina- j
tions of American exporters engaged j
purely in competition abroad with for-M
eign manufactures. This measure is!
backed by a considerable number of j
American business men and demanded,
by them as a requisite in order to meet j
foreign competition on foreign soil.)
There is opposition to it in certain con-I
gressional quarters, which seems to!
forecast a fight. | j
There are indications, too, that the;
fight over the preparedness question 2
has not abated, although it may be j
fought out on lines different from the j
old alignment between the big and lit-! .
tie navy men and the big and little
army men. There are special questions
to be settled. The country seems to 1
have accepted the enlarged naval pro-,,
gram and the enlarged army. How- ;
ever, it may be expected that there will !
be another House fight over the amount !
of money to be appropriated this year j
to carry out what is left of the author-I
ized five-year naval program. There is
also promise of a fight on the subject of
universal military tiaining and kindred i 1
military problems. Senator t'hamberlaiti's
bill, providing for universal military
training, will be pressed by its author,
who i.- < hairoian of the Senate 1
military affairs committee.
Prohibition Amendment.
In addition to those measures, there
looms up the possibility of a hard fight j
to put through a /'-solution submitting I
Cu, ih<- country a constitutional amendment
for nation-wide prohibition. The j
j.i?t that five more states went dry at
tio tit e!e<tion.s. bringing the total!
number ? ; dry states to twenty-four, j
lias g:wi? the prohibitionists cause to j
hope f? r action at the coming session, j
? i\il service reform, with retirement j
. ! p.-/- ion -'.sterns, and woman suf-j
.4-. .> - other important matters'
v. , . V 'A I I I be til'ged.
\ I. -? .! trouble maker is the public!
', tell, which is framed and j
1, ?i v to tie rolbaj into the House at a!
I:>, ft. nt notice < 'oiig ressiona 1 atti- .
ins- can ^eticrallv be described as an
, 111 11 bv individuals to get certain
1;. ins in t he tell and a concentrated et;
o r t to keep the b 111 I roiii being passed
ih i rms?- mm* ?>?iiuin on inn worn
pork." Tim proponents of the bill
l,;tvi been put i -inly waiting- a chance i
,,, bring it into tio- House from the,1
committee on public buildings and
grounds, and probably will not be re- j ;
.? t ra i ned much longer. j >
of these questions are of great i
importance, but probably the great ( i
problem before the national legislature
i is found in the labor situation. Kvents
j of revolutionary character may be
'awaiting the nation, and upon their
i outcome may depend the course of the
[administration and of the nation for ;
years to come. Bringing it down to a ]
I question of the next few months, one j
i of the questions being asked is as to
i lie course of the minority in the pres- )
cut House. Will the republicans endeavor
to delay and block the I'resi- ;
dent's program respecting labor problems.
railway legislation and the like?
<>r will they adopt a policy of allowing
the democratic party to assume all
responsibility? Jt will be recalled that
on the "eight-hour law" vote seventy
I republicans voted for the measure and
only fifty-nine against it. The demo- ;
emtio, view is that the presidential <
elections pointed the way, and that i
1
I
I
I
"bll' ^
thKouOH
rn*'CT'sf\. "i
(#|^? 1
SQUASH CEN
there will be no party vote on labor
sills.
Day of Party Vote Gone.
'/In fact," said a. democrat at the Captol
yesterday, "the day of the party
I'Ote has pone for a long time to come,
rhere hasn't been a real party vote at ;
:he Capitol for many a day. Men are;
joing to vote in accordance with the
:haracter of tfheir districts."
The republicans have not assembled j
'or counsel, and their course is not :
charted. There is at present a wider !
jreach between the wings of the rnilority
than can be found anywhere in J
:he democratic party in Con press to- !
lay, and for this reason it may be easy '
'or the democrats to have their say ;
is to a program. The republicans must !
settle among themselves whether they!
vill allow the democrats to have an
rtLtty l i i j i" in inc pii'm i mtpmuii ui win
ielay matters so as to throw o\>r important
legislation into the iif.xt <*on?ress,
where the parties will he al- !
nost evenly divided, and perhaps force
in extra session.
FOUR PERSONS KILLED !
IN AUTOMOBILE RACE
Driver and Spectators Meet Death j
During International Contest
at Santa Monica.
i'.r the AIn toil Press.
SANTA MONICA, Cal.. November IS.? j
Driver Lewis .lacksan and th ee oth r!
persons we.re killed today in th'seventh
annual international prize automobile
race, which was won in roe- I
ord-breakinK time on the Santa Monica
course hv Johnny A it ken, drivi as
relief for Howard Wilcox. The dead,
besides Jackson, are: Harold lOdgorton.
I.os Angeles, spectator; J. B Jenkins, ;
motion picture camera operator; Mrs. '
Lean a Jnratch, Venice, lemonade vernier.
The injured: John Hhianda, Los Ancf-l's,
Jackson's mechanician; J. S. !
Hanuigan, Los Angeles, spectator; Miss
fJeorgia McCall, Santa Monica, left arm
and richt leg1 broken by flying parts
rrom the car.
Crashes Into Palm Tree.
Ja? kson, a Los A ni^eles driver, on j
his thirteenth lap swerved into one ot
the palm trees lining the course. Th (
ear uprooted the st palm tre.e it j
MIU'K. <>V'I HMilH I J1 1--rnoilHMf : I ; I : I?I. j
killing the woman in cliaraf, crushed
Jenkins against a : ? ? one! palm. which
v. as broken off short and wrapp'd itself
about a third tree. In this wreckage
Jackson was crushed and his body
nearly cut in twain. His mechanician,!
Ghianda. was thrown out and e. c ped (
dangerous injuries. K igerton was :
stru? k by flying parts of the wrec ked
car. lie and Jenkins died an hour after i
th- v wi> taken to a hospital.
Hannigan also was struck hy parts I
of tin* wrecked car. He will recover. j
Jackson's fatal accident was pieced-j
r*d by a minor one whic h ofliciaJs said j
might have weakened his car. Marly;
in the race Jackson's car jumped the,
curb on the turn where later lie was j
killed, and ran onto the interuroan i
railway tracks some distance from the;
race course. |p> changed a wheel whea
he reached the pits, and little atlen- j
lion was given the accident.
Jackson, according to race officials,
was going at an estimated speed of 100
miles an hour on the San Vincente !
back .stretch at the time his cat- became,
unmanageable. His left front wheel)
hit the cement curb, which is about j
fifteen inches high, and crumpled. The ,
axle rested on the curb, and the car'
raced along for twenty-five feet before
It left the road.
The motor was thrown twenty feet,
and the radiator and hood were thrown
thirty feet farther.
Acquitted of Murder Charge.
BATJSSVIHLK, Ark.. November 18.?
V. Gilbert Richardson of liatesville was
acquitted of murder by a jury in circuit
court here late today. Tho Jurors
deliberated three hours. !
i
reckon 11^
rtally <;
TER COMMENTS ON THE
TODAY'S NEWS AND FEATURES.
PART V.
Par*.
1?Mexican Conference at White House.
Want Inaugural Chairman Appointed.
Congress to Bush Work.
British Win Battle on Ancre.
See War Verdict in Balkans.
Tammany to Support President.
2?Fight on High School Frats.
District Guardsmen on Border.
Unitarian Conference.
Peace Pageant for Inauguration.
Mount Pleasant Citizens Meet.
3?Railroad Inquiry Begins Tomorrow.
Railway Y. M. C. A. Campaign.
5?Half Million Visitors to Washington.
National Grange Convention.
8?Neighborhood House Fifteen Years Old.
German Editor Praises President Wilson.
Bettor 'Movies" Campaign.
9?Alexandria Affairs.
Utilities Commission Hearing.
Red Cross Meeting.
Results of Foot Ball Games.
12?British Battle India Tribesmen.
District of Columbia Troops in Rain.
Dominican Celebration.
14?City News in Brief.
President Receives Labor Leaders.
New Serbian Envoy.
15?D. C. Dry in 1917 Is Predicted.
Seek Law to Punish Flag Desecration.
1G?Berlin to Give Belgian Deportation Data.
17?Canadian Premier Talks Peace.
18?Old Papers Net Over $1,200 to Schools.
Plan Flower Show Inaugural Week.
19?Financial Page.
20?Lquor License Hearings.
Masonic Lodges Entertain.
Farm Women Get New Ideas.
.'AKI ...
1?Big House Fight for Speakership.
Epochs in Telephone History.
2-'i?Amusements.
4?Editorials.
What the Government is Doing.
Poland is Not Dead.
5?War Reviews.
6?Fraternities.
7?Maryland and the Virginias.
Boy and Girl Scouts.
In the Schools.
With the Rifle Clubs.
Garden and Poultry.
6?Notes of Government Workshops.
Former Inaugural Balls.
PART III.
SUNDAY STAR MAGAZINE.
PART IV.
siPrrrar rFATtrsrs
1?Capitol of the Americas.
Jeannette Rankin. Congresswoman,
2?Uncle Sam's Pure Food Car.
Book Reviews.
Better Markets.
.'J?With the Rambler.
Carpenter Tells of Yukon.
Pepper Writes of Poland.
4?Herbert Kaufman's Message. '
Washington Ward in Paris Hospital.
I
PART V.
SPORTS AND AUTOMOBILES.
1?Big Foot Ball Games.
Nationals to Train at Augusta. Ga.
1 ulier Wins Golf Tourney.
2?Duckpin League Games.
3?Billy Evans' Sport Gossip.
Coif Club Notes.
Chess.
4?District Road Improvement.
?To Improve Traffic Troubles.
0?Automobile News Notes.
1C?Art Notes.
Mtisie.il Mention.
Around the Ci'ty.
Hoard and Seen.
PART VI.
1-1?Comic Section.
PART VII.
SOCIETY.
1?Leading Events in Society Circles.
The Debutantes' Calendar.
2?Society Notes.
3?Society in Silhouette.
Weddings.
t?ivnriy ana navy notes.
r??Pickup Here and There in Society. I
0?In Nearby Society Circles.
10?Church Activities. j
11?Fashion Hints by Anne Rittenhouse.
.Amonif the Clubs. j
12?Church Notes.
PLANOGRAVURE PICTORIAL SECTION. |
1?Capitol Camera Club Pictures.
?.?Rear Admiral Davis' Paintings.
3?Bright Babies of Washington.
4?The News Illustrated.
OHIO COURT'S CASE LIKE
JARNDYCE VS. JARNDYCE
Spe. i?l <? The Star.
C INC INN ATT, Ohio,- November 18.?
What is believed to be the oldest case
pending at this time in any federal
1
BfcT TM
C J,?
WOUlt HTT'CBl ?V ~ \
__
: ELECTION. * i
j
court in the United States was revived j
before United States Judee .Howard'
C. S. Hollister here today. The case ;
involved the disposition of the estate
of Samuel F. Vinton, former resident
of Washington, D. C., and one of Ohio's
pioneer settlers, who later went to Congress
and made his home in the nation's
Capital city. At the time of his death
there was a dispute among the heirs
attd ? suit was filed in the local federal
court April 6, 1X64, more than
ago. Most of the litigdfiis
have long since passed away.
According to Gen. Warren Keifer of
Springfield. Ohio, who represents the
trustees of the estate, the case will not
he finally settled until after the death
'of Baroness von Overheck. a grandchild
of Samuel F. Vinton, who is nowliving
somewhere in Germany. There
is said at present to be about $400,000
involved in the estate. The action before
Judge Hollister here today was
the result of a motion filed by the
trustee to set aside an order of an
eastern court, it was stated, allowing
Eric B. Dahlgren, as guardian of one
of the heirs, the sum of $70,000.
TAMMANY IN CONGRESS
TO SUPPORT PRESIDENT
Interested. However, in Adniaistration's
Attitude Toward Mayoralty
Campaign.
Tammany'fr delegation in the next
House of Representatives will support
the President, according to reliable information
reaching Washington. There
li^s been much speculation upon this
point, in view of the insinuations that
Charles F. Murphy did not deliver Tammany's
full strength.to the democratic
ticket in the recent elections.
That suggestion has been hotly resented
by many prominent Tammany
men. who have insisted that on the
contrary Mr. Murphy was entirely loy I
to the national and state tickets. If
more attention was paid to candidates
for local offices, it should? be excused,
it is intimated from Tammany sources,
on the principle that "charity begins
at home."
Chance to Help Tammany.
Before the next Congress assembles ]
and the Tammany men in the House
are called upon for a demonstation of
fealty to the administration, the New
York city mayoralty election will j
have been held and the national ad- j
ministration afforded opportunity for a 1
practical exhibition of its attitude to- j
w ard Ta m many.
Mr. Murphy, it is said, will expert the :
administration to discourage a fusion
ticket on the mayoralty and Jet the ;
New York city democrats contest with
a straight republican candidate. That's '
all he wants, it is declared, a fair field
and no favor.' i
Administration's First Move.
At this time it is the expressed in- 1
tention of Tammany in Congress to i
stand back of the President. That dec- 1
laration is said to be made in good *
faith.
But, as stated, Tammany lias the advantage
to the extent that the administration
must make the first move, j '
The elections occur in November, and
the new Congress does not meet until
December. It is said that Mr. Murphy 1
will observe the course of the administration
toward the mayoralty with
much interest and constant watchful
ness. j
i
STOGIE WORKERS STRIKE.
West Virginia Manufacturers Refuse
to Grant Wage Demands.
WHEELING, W. Va., November IS.?
A strike of stogie makers was called
here today after local manufacturers
had refused to grant an increase in (
wages of $1 per thousand to rollers and .
ifa cent a pound to strippers. Nearly
1.250 persons employed in forty-five
factories quit work. The strike was
sanctioned some time ago by a referendum
vote.
BRITISH WIN BATTLE .
DUNG SNOWSTORM |
Establish New Line on Both^
Sides of Ancre and Over
Wide Front.
FOE FACES MORE LOSSES
Copyright hy As{*o<nat?*d I*r?>ss. '
WITH THK BRITISH ARMIES IN
FRANCE. November IS. via London, November
1!*, 3:40 a.m.?British and Canadian
tronns won : li.itrh- in :i siunv
storm this morning. Advancing on both '
sides of the Ancre in easterly und north- i
erly directions, they took about 500 pris
oners and established a new line on both !
sides and at the edge of the. village of ;
Grandcourt. for the possession of which
severe lighting continued throughout the ;
day.
The attacks from the south were made
before daybreak, while a stiff wind sent .
flurries of snow into the faces of the j 1
British soldiers as they pushed down
the slope toward the marshes along the
Ancre. It was the first snow of the
season, following two days and nights of
intense dry cold, which hardened the
swamp of no man's land after nearly
three months of constant rainfall, thus
giving the attacking infantry a firm foothold
on the frozen ground.
Advance on Wide Front.
They advanced nearly a quarter of a
mile on a three-mile front to the German
position south of the villages of
Grandcourt, Petit Miraumont and Pys and
occupied the trench without great resist- ;
a nee except south of Grandcourt. where !
the batteries and machine guns holding
the sunken pozieres road checked the
British. Elsewhere the German trench
was virtually destroyed by the preparatory
bombardment, the surviving Germans.
including Saxons, formally surrendering
through their officers, who met
the British as they came over the ruined
parapet.
Parties of British bombers advanced to
the next German line, which is the last
on the south side of the Ancre, raided the
position and returned to the trench previously
captured, which by now had been
consolidated. Infantry detachments working
up the river bank from the western
end of Grandeourt got a footing in the
ruins and craters and took the lower
end of the main street paralleling the
Ancre. of which the Germans hold the
remainder.
Advance North of Ancre.
On the north side of the Ancre the advance
was made from the eastern end of
Beaucourt. Capturing Holland wood, the
patrols pushed forward to the Pusieux
trench, a part of the original German I
second line and the end of which at the j
river bank the British now hold. I
Today's successes give the British com- J
mane of ruined villages, fortified farms \
and other strong German points in the 1
Ancre valley. In the opinion of a staff i
officer, the German positions south of the !
Ancrc are virtually untenable, as the |
Germans are unable to bring up supplies j
and reinforcements, while the only avail- >
able road is under bombardment.
A captured German order announcing to i
the garrison in the Ancre trenches the
imoossibilitv ??f delivering the mails, adds:
"Owing to the Brit ish fire we cannot
even bring up the barest necessities."
I
Improve Second Line.
i
The Germans are working hard in im- !
proving the original second line in front
of Pusieux and Miraumont. apparently
anticipating further British attacks,
which, owing to their loss of BeaumontHamel.
may force a sudden abandonment
of the other portions of the first line.
The perfunctory character of the German
counter bombardments and infantry
resistance along the An ere give the impression
that the Germans have little intention
of offering serious opposition.
Prisoners taken, who were suffering
from cold and exposure because of the :;
lack of food due to the line of communication
having been cut by the
British guns, said they had received better
food on the front line, when it was <
possible to get supplies, than when they i
were resting, because of the policy of the '
derman staff in trying to make duty in I
the front trenches the attractive end. j
Berlin Reports Check.
LONDON, November 18.?The British , 1
army delivered another assault on the
German lines on both banks of the Ancre ! '
river today, in what is described by the . }
German war office as another attempt 1
to break through. The attack, which was
preceded by "enormous artillery activity,"
failed, according to the German announce- 1
ment. The fighting is still in progress '
near Grandcourt. south of the Ancre. , Tl,
Rritich -arlvpncps
northeast of Beaumont-Hamel ami north
of Beaucourt last night, according to the ! ,
British announcement. ; i
French attacks near Sailly-Saillisel last | <
night broke down under the German fire. > (
according to the German report. On the j 1
other hand, the French report a repulse ! '
of an attack l?y a strong German detach- ; <
nient on the French trenches at Biaches. j *
1
Germans Checked at Berny. I
South of the Somme an attempt by the
Germans against French trenches east of
Berny was repulsed by French barrier
fire and grenades. An intermittent can- j
tionade occurred on the rest of the front, j
On the night of November 16-17 a 1
French aerial-squadron dropped 157 shells
on an enemy aviation field at Golancourt *
<Oise) and Grisolles (Aisne). Twenty- f
two airplanes of the British maritime 1
aviation service set out November 17 at A
Jay break to bombard the electricity
plants and naval workshops at Ostend.
They dropped 1S<? bombs, many of which | <
reached their objectives. Another bom- ! a
bard men t was carried out by seaplanes i
:>n the mole at Zeebrugge. All of the 1 4
machines returned. . I f
Belgian communication: "There was ^
flight artillery activity in the sectors j
of I >i\niude, Steenstraete and ilet
Sas."
Engagement of First Rank.
Prom a Staff 1'orrespondent. of the Associated '
I'ress. j;
GERMAN WESTERN HEADQl'AR- 1
FERS, November 15, via Berlin, Novem- t
oer 16. via London, November IS.?The 1
c
front of the attack yesterday extended s
still farther north, the British making ij
preparations as if to assault from that
lirection. The Gommecourt salient is
:he "farthest west" of the entire Gernan
front in France, clouds of gas c
ivere launched against tins mconvenent
salient, which, after withstanding a
he British attacks in the beginning of d
ruly, had since been left in compara- r
ive peace, and a heavy artillery bom- i
jardrnent was directed against it, but p
t did not come to an actual infantry 1?
issault. Attacks farther south and east li
ilong the Somme, however, made the r
Ighting yesterday a general engage- n
? o
(Continued on Tweiftillage.) h
SEE WAR VERDICT I
IN BALKAN ARENA
Berlin Military Authorities Say
Decision Will Not Come on Other
Fronts. '
TEUTONS MAKE PROGRESS
By tli* Associate! Press.
BKRRJX. November 17. via London*
November 18.?Th* war tlioatcr in thm
sdiiiuwcM?i r:ui!?y iv,i r*.i:? nun liiiniann
?!s to be the scene of the decision in
this war. not the Russian front nof
Verdun, nor even the Ho mine, accord*
injr to the belief expressed by well in*
formed military authorities here. They
note that proprress is boinpr mads
steadily in that fip-htinjr area, although
slowly, because of the ditlicultics of til*
mountain warfare and the conquest of
the numerous pnsst s lending to th?
Rumanian plane, where even 1 vastly
superior force has trouble in s\\ iftly
following np ea< h advantage gained.
Allied Gains Discounted.
The supreme importance <>f this
relatively little known war theater was
emphasized to the Assoeiated Press
correspondent by one of these military
authorities in conjunction with his explanation
<?f what was characterized as
the utterly local importance of the recent
allied trains in the An ere sector
of the Somtne front h\ which the Germans
lost Beaumont-Ha mel. St. Pierre,
Divion and Beaucourt. These three villages
lie at the extreme westerly tip
of the former tongue-like advanced
position held by the Germans. which
admittedly was the weakest in the entire
line, and which was exposed 10 a
concentric fire in the rear which cut
off retreat and forced the Germans to
defend the post to the last tyaii.
Get Strengthened Lines.
Though the loss of this advanced position
was costly in that it involved
the loss of men. it was taken by the
British, it is claimed, only at a far
greater cost. Its loss also, it is declared,
gave the Germans vastly
strengthened lines, just as did the retirement
from Fort Vaux and Fort
Douauinont, because of the shortened
line of defense, and placed the Germans
in positions to the rear which
were much more easy to defend.
Though the Rumanian front, according
to the Germans' assertion, is to be
the decisive point of the war, they abstain
entirely from even the vaguest
prophecy regarding the time when the
plains will t>e reached and a decision
can be forced.
"Even the operations of the Dobrudjrt
armies, they say, are still 'deeply veiled
in mystery.' "
Pressure Makes Itself Felt.
"The effects of Gen. von FalkenV.uvn'a
unrflnrtinr
outlets from the Predeal. Torzburger
and Rothenthurn passes now* are making:
themselves felt in neighboring: sec- "
tors, namely, in the northern R?manian
and Wallachian Carpathians,'/
writeh the military critic of the Oversseas
News Agency. #
"After the failure of their offensive ni
the f'redeal area the Rumanians jrcr*- /ft
compelled to confine themselves to flie fj
defensive, but the demands of even this
form of warfare is now almost too V
much to be supplied by the forces at their
command. The Rumanian lines are l>eing
continuously drawn hack in the center,
near Rredeal and Campulung and south
of Rothenthurn pass. They are endeavoring
to offset this menace by attacks in
nearby sectors of the front.
At the beginning, the attacks for this
purpose were launched t<> the v.est of the
principal passes and in the vicinity of the
hard-pressed center, as in the Booza
valley, to the east of the center and in
the .liul valley, to the west. In the
former valley conditions caused the fighting
to be confined to guerilla warfare,
while in the Jiol valley the <;?rnians who
;it the beginning confined themselves to
the defensive have since N .vember 10
been on the offensive, their advance having
been crowned November 14 by the
capture of the village of IJuzesti. in the
hill regions.
Offensive Weakens on Flanks.
"I'nder the extension of the <Ierman
pressure, the Rumanian offensive continued
to fall away toward the 'flanks.
This is seen in the result of the recently
reported engagements near Or*ova
November 11. 13. 13. during which
the troops of Archduke Charles Francis
made 1.600 prisoners, as well as in
the extremely costly attacks of the
Russians in the uituz valley Novetn>er
13-14. which were only made in confluence
of the pressure against tlto
[irincipal passes. Indirectly connected
with tills a ro ine engn irennm \ s ne?.r
Folv-Krasnolesna on t h?? X.-irayuvka
in tlalicia. where the Russians atempted
in vain to keep the forces of
he central powers tied up in an effort
:o relieve Rumania The armies of
.lens. Brussiloff and 1-yailcvy in conseluence
of the exhaustion of their hijnan
material, and their lark of h;; nunition
and war machinery, which is
'very day becoming more apparent. a > o
to longer capable of any action on a
arge scale."
Russians Are Continuing
to Make Gains Against
Von Mackensen's Forces
iy the Associated Press.
L.ONDON, November IS.?Russian
"orces in Dobrudja are continuing to
?ain ground against the army of Field
vlarshal von Mackensen, the Russian
var office announces.
< mi both si<Jes of the Jiul valley the
3erinan and Austro-Hungarian troops
Lre advancing. despite the most violent
memy resistance. Vienna claims. Fast
?f the Alt river we also have gained
ground. Northeast of t'atnpulung fierce
memy counter attacks failed.
"In the Alt and J nil valleys fighting
ontinues violently. We yielded a little 1
jround in the direction of the t'erna
southern Transylvania), but the movement
was unimportant." is the Rumanian
announcement, which continues:
"In the region of I >ragoslavele our
roops attacked and succeeded in relulsing
the enemy in the center and
n our left wing, thereby making coniderable
progress. We captured 300
trisoners. - i
Serbians Claim Victory.
SALOXIKI. November IS.?The offjial
statement issued from Serbian
rmy headquarters today reads: "Friay
afternoon our valiant troops carried
Hill 1212 after a brilliant assault,
'he Bulgarians were defeated coinletely
and tied northward in disorder,
saving behind all their equipment, a
irge number of machine guns and
ittes, an enormous quantity of amlunition
and other war material. At
ne place we captured fifty cases Ot
and grenades."
