S$tttl
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow, not 'much
change In temperature; fresh west winds
Highest temperature yesterday, 47: lowest, 38.
Dctallc.l wi after, mall nml marine report vu page II.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 80.
NEW , YORK, SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1916. Cojtirlohf. HIS, bv Ihe Sun Printing and Pubttthtnp Atsociatlon.
60 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
WILSON PLEADS
FOR END OF ALL
CLASS FEELING
Tells Labor Men Remedy
Lies in "Justice With a
Heart in It."
PJiKA MADE FOR
UNITY OF SPIRIT
President in Address Pre
sents His Ideas of a
True American.
0O3IPEKS EXTENDS
CONGRATULATIONS
A. V. of L. Members Go to
White House in Body
From Baltimore.
Washington, Nov. it. 1'iesldent
Wilson told a delegation from the Amer
ican Federation of Labor late to-day
that all clam feeling In America should
be wiped out by the establishment of
Justice "with a heart In It." He said no
ene who falls to work for Hit end is
qualified to call himself a true Ameri
can. The delegation comprised the member
ship of the Federation's annual conven
tion, which ha been meeting In Balti
more. The delegates came to Washing
ton In special car and marched to the
White House headed by a band to con
gratulate the President on hi reelec
tion. Samuel anmpers, president of lale
Federation, acted as spokesman, saying
laboring people had come to recognise
that Mr. Wilson stands for Justice, free
dom and righteousness. "We have taken
Joy In upholding your hand In your
great work," said Mr. Gomper.
"I need not say that, coming to me as
you do on such an errand. I am very
deeply gratified and very greatly
cheered," said the President in reply. "It
would be impossible for me offhand to
say Just what thought are stirred In mo
by what Mr. Gomper has nald to me us
your spokesman, but perhaps the sim
plest thing I can say In, after all, the
meat of the whole matter.
For a United .Spirit.
"What I have tried to do I to get rid
of any claps division In this country: pot
only that, but of any class consciousness
nnd feeling. The worst thing that could
liapptn to America would be that she
hould bo divided Into groups and camps
In which there were men and women
who thought they were nt odds with one
another, that the spirit of America was
not expressed except In them and that
possibilities of nntagonlsm were the only
things that we had to look forward to.
"As Mr. Gompers said, achievement Is
s comparatively small matter, but the
spirit in which things are done Is the
rence of the whole thing. And what
I am striving for, and what I hope you
sre striving for, Is to blot out all the
lines of division In America nnd create
unity of spirit and of purpose founded
upon tills, the consciousness that we nrc
mi men and women of the same sort
end that If We do not understand each
other we are ii.it true Americans. If we
rnniiftt enter Into each other' thoushts.
n we cannot comprenenu each other
imrrrxi. ii we canuni serve eacn oiner i
sentiiu vveirare, men we have not yet
quiillfled ns representatives of the Amer
ican spirit.
"Nothing alarms America so much as
rifts, divisions, the drifting apart of ele
merits among her people, nnd the thing
we ought nil to strive for Is to close up
'very rift, and the only way to do It, so
far ns I can see. Is to establish Justlre
not only, hut Justice with a heart In It,
Justice with a pulse In It, Justice with
sympathy In it. Justlre can be cold nnd
forbtdillnr, or It can bo wat;n and wel
ff'iiie, nnd the latter Is the only kind of
Justice Hint Americans ought lo desire.
Congratulated by Gomper.
"1 do not believe I nm deceiving
miteif when I say that I Ihlnlc this
rlr!t Is growing in America. I piay
Ood It may continue to grow. And
ll I have o say Is to exhort every one
whom my voices renche here or else
where to come Into this common move-
mnt of humanity."
In addressing Mr. Wilson Mr. Oom
fr s.iU the delegates had decided
without any pre.irrangement lo come
nd congratulate the President. He ex
fltilne.1 that the American Federation
of Ijhor was a voluntary association
ef organized workers whose object was
'n hrlr.g light Into the live of wage,
mner. and that anything that con
tributed to thn material nnd moral up
lift of till class vva n benefit to the
whole country.
"We have come to lecognlxe In vou,
nr. a man who stands for those princi
ple," lie said. "We have taken Jov In
"ur heart In upholding your hand In
h great work you have accomplished,
We represent different political creed,
hut h unanimity of purpose and spirit
ta Mng with you In the treat light
:'.i have mad. ,
"Wn hope that your next four years
I" tho While House will he filled with
tlir meat of achievement for the good
of humanity."
After the speeches all the delegates
hook hands with the President,
"l-oolt out for my boy." said "Mother"
Jo-ifs as she greeted Mr. Wilson.
CONTRACTOR SENT TO JAIL.
1 .v ,U T,n. and a Half Vrar
fnr l.'n iiuil In n I'riiuils,
:'..i-" Man., J.'ev. IS. Thoiiit
v ' -. w.althy Winnlpg contraclor, was
i. . ii -il to-day to seivn tiyo and a half
"sis in the penitentiary,
Krlly wb fonvtcted at the summer
n.fs mi cl'iiige arising from alleged
' .n, anient dealings In connection with
onlnict for the Munltoba Parliament
Building, The Supreme. Court denied
e:ntly a motion for a nw trial.
TWELVE ARMY PLANES FLY
TO PRINCETON-YALE GAME
Starting From Mineola and Governors Island They
Move in Column Formation Machines Take
Turns in Air as Contest Is Played.
Twelve airplane, (he largest United
Slate mmy squadron ever assembled.
flew across country In regular formation
yesterday and alighted at 1'rlnceton,
where the aviator witnessed the football
match. Teh of the machine started
from the atmy aviation field at' Mineola.
Two arose from the field on Governors
Island and Joined them over the Nar
row. The flight of all twelve wax nil hut
perfect. The slight exception was that
Lieut. Alexander H. Thaw va forced to
allsht nt Flushing for trifling repair.
These made, he quickly
iook mo air
again and finished a little behind the
rest.
Men familiar with the hlstoiy of the
development of flying In America lut
night called It the greatest demonstra
tion of the art thl continent has seen.
There may have been more machine In
the air at orbs time during the meet at
Belmont Park Seven years ago, they said,
but this wo the first cross-country
flight by any considerable number of ma
chine. Hover Over Pootbnll Field.
Four of the machines took turns
hovering over the field auilng the prog-
rcss or tne game at Princeton, one of
them viewing the struggle from aloft at
a critical moment when Yale was mak
ing n touchdown.
Ten of the machines lined up on the
Peld at Mineola at S o'clock yesterday
morning. All the motors were started,
resulting In a din comparable only to a
battery of machine gun. The aviators
were. :
Capt. Ileynal C. Dolling, Capt. Italph
L. Taylor. First Lieut. W. U. Kllner,
Lieut. James I'. Milter. Lieut. Alexander
Illalr Thaw. Sergeant W. P. Wlllets. Ser
geant J. It. Stevenson, Sergeant I). It.
Noyes. A.'H. Adams, and 11. It. lllake
ley, civilians.
Most of thesa aviators had to take
cross-country flight a part of their
testa for the military certificate.
Lieut. Kllner' machine was the first
BODY OF RICH MAN'S 1
UIOOTliri DAV DATTlTTi I
Ill In 111 II IT nllT Pill 1 IM II
UllUUlUU VVI X Will "
C.vril-Sonu.v" Matthews, !, of j
Clilcao, Lbst ! Months,
Dead in Lake.
CmcAUo, Nov. IS, The body nf nine-1
year-old Cyril "Sonny" Matthews, who
was lost from his home nine month ago,
was washed ashore on the l.ike Michi
gan front to-day. A nationwide search
for the hoy had been kept up continu
ously by hi parents nnd by schoolmate.
A former playmate of the boy who
was wandering along the, lake shore
found the body. Thc police said the
mystery of his disappearance had been
intensified rather than cleared by Mie
discovery of his body. Tliy b.dlevrd
It Impossible that the body .; '' I !.
remained 111 the lake since brUtvxry
10. nnd were Inclined to the theor) that
.... ... r
'Sonny" was held by kidnappers for
arvernl months and then kilted for fear
of detection. Numerous letter received
by the parents had stated the boy was
being held for ransom.
Gypsy bands, kidnapping clues and
every Influence that might have had to
do with the hoy's illsappeurHiKe had
been Investigated. The last letter from
the alleged kidnapper was iccclved Oi-
tober 31
The boy's father Is n iV rector of th
Armour Packing Comnmy
- '
II H III. SJ l.:tf A I . UTAhli NIIDOVUr
w. w, M MA.. A w liuiui.,
Secretary linker Disagree Willi
Jmlcr Advocate General' View.
Washington, Nov, is. Kupervlslou
of all army uctlvitles will continue to
rest with the tlrneral Staff, under a
ruling to-day by Secretary llaker, Inter-
pretlng the new National Defenco act.
In bl comluslon the Herretarv dls-
In hi comluslon the Secretary die
agree with Judge Advocate General
Crowder. who held that the act pro
hibited member of tb Geneial Stuff
corps from exercising nny control over
bureau of the War Department.
In atatlng hi decision Secretary
ltaker Kald: "The policy of the War De
partment will remain as heretofore: tlie
Chief of Htnff, apeoklng In the name
of the Seeretury of War, will coordlnato
and supervise Jhe varl;, bureaus, of
fices and departments of !he War De
rartment." PARISIANS LACK SUGAR.
Suburb May Have lo I!e Card lo
Ohlalu Sapply. (
I'vp.i. Nov. 18. Tlie Issue of sugar
cards for the suburb of I'm is Is under
consideration by the authorities. At
NfUllly tlie municipality has even taken
the piecnutlon to have a quantity of
curds printed.
The rareity of sugar I due not so
much to the lack of slocks a to the
dlttlcultles of distribution. The cb-llveiy
wagons and horse of most wholesaler
und retnlleis have been requlallloned for,
the aimy and there l aho a certain.
amount of hoarding by private persons.
The Grocer Association lias, howevei,
ni.fb.wi five large automobile lorries
..iu- from the army, which nre doing
much to Improve the situation.
ECONOMY IN TWINE URGED.
Post OWcr D!Prtmm Tell Km-
ployre tot la Very lllali.
Wiiinoton, Nov. IS. Confivatlon
of binding twine used In the pattal er-
vice is. urgeo uikiii i' .-..
' Post Olllce Department became of tl.
nbnoimal Increase In price. A .Vr-iM-tnent
tntement rung'X" tl..t a con-
I "IderaW't ""WJU?
I'.VHIO on "
wved find u.d again.
The r,r, 000 post olll.-es III the United
State inpilre each year CSO.OOO miles of
....ine weliihlnrr 2.000,000 pounds,
which It I estimated would encircle
try globo twenty-seven times.
jr.OR!l.-rl'IIA-ATI.ANTA a. V.
nireet thru sirvlc. Qukk soh.dule It.aort
Ellti.t. T loformillon Bureau. 11(4 B war.
Atv-
to take the air. at 9:01; Cant. Boiling's
the second. The other followed ut In
terval of a minute, limed by I.leut. J.
K. Carberry, U. 8. A., until I.leut. Thaw,
the last, was off.
Those first up waited for the others,
circling over the Mineola Court Howe.
Then they stralghtered out In squadron
formation and made a beellne for Coney
Island. A they crossed the Narrows
1'hllln A. Carroll and Hobey ltaker, a
former 1'rlnceton football ntar. who car
rled Cord Meyer jpt Vale as a passen
ger. Joined the. squadron.
Tknn Soon on War
Crossing Htaten Ulnml to the Jersey
I . I , 1 1. .1 I.. t. I llnllmr1
, ...... i,.,i..i . .hi
i maul nun iuiiivKi .irj ,..-.,...
for l'rlncetou. "Hobey" Baker wa the
first to arrive. The other were close
to hltn, except Thaw. Lieut. Thaw had
englno trouble ten miles from the avia
tion field, and came to earth slowly on
Flushing Meadows. He telephoned to
Mineola for mechanics and necessary
tools. .They were rushed to him. the
repairs were quickly made, und he went
on.
Tho aviators chose the Yale-Prince-ton
came a tha objective of their test
for the reason that many of them arc
graduates of the two universities.
Baker was captain of the Princeton
team three year ago. Lieut. Miller Is
a Yale man.
"Hobey" Uaker long ago boasted to
his fellow alumni that one day he would
fly to a Princeton football game, sev
eral of them wagered he wouldn't, and
yesterday lie collected his winnings. He
flew a Uurgess, Ulnkeley flew an "I., w
F." and all the others were Curtis
models.
Alan It. Hawley, president of th
Aero Club of America, and Kvert Jan-
sen Wendell, a governor of the club,
were at Princeton to greet the aviators.
The Aero Club was the scene of a cele
bration last night, for the First Aero,
- "' . """"
tne nier oeiong, was rounded inrougn .
funds raised by the club. A year ago, i
club members said, there w not a .
iiiiiiiui nciuimiir n limn utij iiuii.
4reds of miles of New York.
MORGAN PARTNER
Tlie Premier was accompanied by
fl X I I 0 All HDU0TT4DIIW'i,r Alexandre Icoste. formerly Chief
()Alllit IIN rnlVlinrjIl I JuUc of King' Bench and formerly ,
VnUUU Vll A HUWllUll 1 , lsldem of the Canadian Senate: Iidy
I 1-aeoste, Albert W. Atwater, president of
" the bar of Montreal: Hobert C. Hmlth.
II. I. Davison Denies His Finn
Is ll.'liind Fi-lit on Kijrht
Hour Law.
Washington, Nov, .IS. -II. P.
Davison, of the mm of .1. I'. Morgan & I
Co., was u culler lit the White House I
this afternoon and hud n thirty inlnute 1
Interview with President Wilson The
interview wltn IieslUent Wilson, nie
appointment was asked for yesterday
by Mr. Davison
Nothing was forthcoming from the
White House In explanation of the
banker's visit and Mr. Davison refused
to discuss It. It Is understood to have
been with regard t foreign financial
matters. J. P. .Morgan is now In Kng
iUml and two da,s ago was re-elved by
'Jng George.
It was believed that Mr Davison had
' ' ')leJ .ere ? !oforo, "'V ''' ,"lIl1l,t
lurnnieil nil Iia lin.l I'n.tttl.'u.l frnni 1. 1 u
Information he had received from his
partner concerning the financial situa
tion abroad and to get the President'
views with rcgaid to future foreign
loans. ,
It Is understood Mr. Davison look or-
cut-Ion to deny a story minted In New-
'urK ,,,,H morning in tne cir-.t mat nis
w" oune'ieu wnn tin- orgnmxa-
'"oli r ,h "fw ila,Uo",'1 '"''"'"rial
conference board to tight tho eight hour
''-'V'l'niand of the trulnmeii and other
workers The Morgan fit m. It I said.
. not only denies having been behind tha
conference hut does not even know Mag-
nllu W i .v.iitU, l.u ....... nn. I
... ... w ...... , ...- iii.n uiirnr.i k,
hnve hi ought about the scheme.
FREIGHT EMBARGOES RAISED.
I'eiinsjlvanla It. It. and New Haven
In Aeeepl Mblpuiriils.
! f-'i'i.argoes against freight fiom tlie
Lust for points west of Plttsbuig on tho
rennsyivnnin itailroad were almost en
tliely removed yeterdy for the ream,,,
XrTW "r "T Wl SerHh.!' It would b- diml-illt ,.,
" .-.f -lIdr'1. work' T.h rt,tl..d a pa.nllel in hlstoi, "
iw.m isiuuau nt tne same lime an-
nounceil a modification of tlie fielglit
,-,iii,!ii ku on iii. lines us llliecilllg ACW
lhigland points,
The Pennsylvania Itailroad restrictions,
still apply against freight for tho
Youngstown, Ohio, dlstilct with tlie ex
ception of coal, coke, oie, limestone,
dolomite, perishables, foodstuffs and
United States Government frelsht. The
Pennsylvania Itailroad embargoes wero
laid November 13. It was the first time
In tho history of the system that th
Hues have been tied up, with tlie single
exception of the flood season In Ohio In
1913.
Pnder Hie New Haven' order, effec
tive November 19, the embargo Is llfl.vl
In less thun rarload freight when orig
inating In New Kngland or at points i n
the New Haven and Central New Kng
land tullway lines In New Voik State.
KAISER'S WINE AGENT JAILED
French Vlerchnut Del Five Vvar
, sj.luu.rnl to (ieru.nu).
Cli.vi.ON-s.st:n..MAR.VK, Nov. IS. A
wine merchant of Hhelms named
Goulden has been convicted by the court
martial of the Sixtli Ilegiou of shipping
j SAO case of champagn., valued at -,-1
fll'O franc, to the German h'niperor by
way of nuenos Ayrcs,
Goulden, who was the lluiperor's
I cliampagne merchant hefnic the war,
, ha been sentenced to five jenra Impris
onment, a nne of i'O.ooo rranes and the
loss of civil right for ten year.
I'roaperou Vrllst llmls I. He,
Alexander Winkler, nn nrilnt, cm)
ml ltd suicide In hi htiidln. :34 M'i il
Twenty-fifth street, yesterday morning.
Tlie Janitor found him dead with ft gn
tube iu hi mouth, Winkler wan 4H
year old, apparently prosperou and
huppy. No rauso for hla net was ascer
tained. AltlPHTA AIKEN AMIIKVIM.K.
.-ImrinlnK resurls end golf links located en
SOUTH I1KN 11AH.wav. "Augusta gp.clal"
leaves New vera nsuy j ius r. i, Tnrouill
sleeping nd dining car trvlrs. Writ, for
aoofcl.t Whir, to Bp.ad ill. Wlnt.r. N. Y,
ome J fifth Ave. Atv,
BORDEN FOR PEACE
LEAGUE OF NATIONS'
Premier of Canada, In Sew
York AtltlrcsK, HcchIIh Early
Vigilantes.
WOULD FORCE IS NEEDED1
"Civilization Must Perinli if It ;
Falls to Achieve Self-
Mastery.'
Sir llubeit Laird Harden, Premier of
Canada, believes In the est jbllshment of
n "world tribunal backed when necessary
by worldwide force for the restraint of
an outlaw nation.'' Speaking yesterday
at a luncheon of the lawyers Club, 115
llroadwny, vWitch made him nn honorary
life member, he said:
"In pioneer day on this continent, be
fore the machinery of law w estab
lished, the( better elements of a com
munity sometimes found It necessary to
punish crime and suppress violence and
disorder by concerted assumption and
exercise of authority.
"Nations determined to uphold Ideals
of public right nnd to resist attempts at
militaristic domination may be concerned
to cooperate In like manner fur the
preservation of peace until they nan
erect a'ld maintain a tribunal whose
decrees in International differences shall
be respected and enforced by the or-1
ganlted power of civilisation." .
He spoke also of Canada's war saril-!
i cm aim ner nurDnaA ir ronttim iiipm. i
. . I
International criticism nnd
disagree. ,
inents, he M. do not indicate lack-
nt
unity and determination.
Dominion-. u-. l.. .......... i. i.
--- --
"They are but the mists whlih hour
about and perhaps for the moment oh-
cure the granite summit of the natlonV
! nnrf.nBA ' a...... 1.1. .. . ..au
( . , nMf i, in iuvia,ivi . .iiiviin
i that puriose there lies no pathway to m
' inconclusive peace. We intend to tight
not for a tiuce hut until we have a con- ilinliig the night by a strong force of usubassy Secretary lleaily t Inler
clueive nnd ibldlng peace. (Applause) German trcop near Blaches, Just aeros ;,rnin i-i,Miirrllur
ueui.-tJOI. unarles Frederick Hamilton, ! - nere, jroin me iimo nrsi reports oi
Paul Ijicoste and K. II. Heammell. I The German ofllclal statement to-day the intention of the German admlnlstra
They wr greeted at th club by a. say that last night tho French made, Hon to apply compulsion to unwilling
iiiii,sii , iiii-iuuiiia aiiuii 11.
Parker, Edgar M. Cullen, George Mc
Aneny, Comptroller Prcndergast. Henry
I Clews, John Hays Hammond, Isaac N.
. Sellginan. Benjamin B. OJtll, (leorge T.
vvnson, William Allen Butler, president
nf tho club, and the committee John
,, stevv.u
Per ley Morse and Robert
C. Morris which secured the guest of
''o nor s presence In New l.irk.
1,1 Wyoming Sir Hubert In the name
(h) nU Myori t.om)lrni1(.r
i'rtndcigaM read letters from William
II. Taft and Joseph II. Choatc.
Mr.
Choato wrote:
"Under Sir Robert Borden's leader
ship Camilla has lieen foremost in this
contest for Justice, freedom ami civiliza
tion." Plain
far Democratic Ideals,
And Mt, I'rendergast said
"We honor you for the fight you aie
mailing for the realization of demo
cratic Ideals throughout the world.
Applause. It Is the duty of some
ofllclal to be neutisl but, speaking per
sonally nnd not officially, I mut sa
(list I'm not neutral."
com nue f when John A Stewart spoke
of the ' guest of the club a. .rhm.
Minister of the lest neighbor u nation
ever had." and which r allied u elllnux
IW. . I . n i . rl . . ...A. .. I.I..1.
when George T Wilson proposed "tluee
areat big American cheers."
The Premier talked, he snld, "not only
" "
1.1 ii 1:iu..e In l.iwvees toil ns lilisinnll
...I,. 1.1 it. I t - M ,.e ,l.n
iu t ill r nieii iir iniin. i-.,inr v. ....
lip ( n nrti rmiir uj in'-
. . . (... 1. 1. 1 .... .v. t.
iSluten una CaimUa ami leinniktM.
'It In ttue IheiH are tariff-, hut In '
the last ten years we have ni.inlfest.d
our nelgnnoriy uptril purcnasing
13,000,00.1,1.00 woith of your I'l'ucl ; tirrmni. Ilnllell... ( sne). "'" "" iPtaln In .. lull In the' ,..l l.
t'iXjr"" ;. o,e,a,GeTV,a,en,e,,,sa. UA J U"Z -TK
"in short." he ald. "',"" f , , "c "'V'' "ZtU , Mfcvdrm, I v einlier 1 J at iliivbi eiik to bo iil.Jt'd the He knelt down under Ue" she! e . -'r. then.,,. ,n .!,- .,. , est-Triusy-I'ir,?.,!;
electricity Plant-- and naval workshops ami gave Ins enemv rtrt nld. banding .-';
'"T . ...A wil l e .. .
I Nation Can Play lleriiill Hole
Addressing especially the lawyers, he
mill-
To tlie bar of a gieat neutral nation,
not less than to tho Inwyer of our own
worldwide commonweullh, the events of
.in, ,..f-i . " t - ,--
thn Importance of defining international
law and right in such term ami of
maintaining them by such sanctions that
the peace of the world shall be main
tained mid International Justice vindi
cated nguluM any offending nation" He
continued :
"llencefoilli no ntilloti ami, indeed, no
contlnent, .tin hope to pluy the rule of
hermit. lApplause.) Tlie AustrollaiH
at Gallloll and the Canadians nt Vpres
were as truly lighting for their liberties
and. In our belief, for the liberties of the
world n If tney nau neiu tne name line
within the territories or ineir respective
' dominions, That thought makes the will
nf Canada us Inflexible tn-day ns when
this war begun. Appiaue.i
"Just as the citlicn who falls to
teallr.e his duty of service, lo tlie State
h not attained tho highest conception
of elllienshlp, m the nation which due
not reallie und fulfil It duty of service
to the world hai not reached the highest
conception of national life."
Public Opinion and Progress.
No sutiatAiulal progress had been
miur. CUT nuiieri emu, lus.oi w WUIIU-
wide organisation through which "the
violence of a powrrful nation, spuming
all International tribunals and acting
In despite or purine risin, may ne er-
: MS rt d,Sen'i u,m
i il,., .iiil.ll.. onlnliiii nf the world
"I'luin the .nlvancc and developnn nt
of that opinion." he went on, "mut test
..... 1 ... ,i,. i. irL. r., ..-..i. 1
rlbuiml backed when necewary by
woildwldn form for the restraint of un
outhw nation,
Many voices admonish us that all
thl l Ideallstla and visionary, that the
standards, conceptions and purposes of
nm-present civilization forbid tha realiza
tion of any uch Ideal, that there must
be the death of till era and the birth
CoNflaued en Third Pagi.
IBR1TISH GAIN AGAIN
ON SOMME FRONT
TIh'.v Hcneli the OntHkirtx of
(ii'iindcoiii't on German
Second Line.
FHKXCH REPULSE ENEMY
;
Oiiinwin Attack Xear llitiitlics,
and in Front of Horny
Without Success.
- ne same manner as It did when Frcmh
workers wi'ic deported from Lille, but
I.O.NPO.V, Nov. IS. Urltlsh Hoops Its action Is entirely Independent,
pushing home the Ancre drive bav,; rlti
reached the outskirts of the large village Kroull(1 of ,lumanty h( tx.ell maiW ,
of (Irandcourt, on the southern bank orjiuth tho Kaiser and the Austrian Km
the stream. (Irandcourt. a bastion of the peror. the Poe supporting the American
, ., , .. i- niv n ml over I11''" for ,u" information us In the (lr-
German second line, is onl n lltle "r IIian ,,ioyinenl p,, lmt KuillK flirth,r
a mile from Stlrnumont. The Hrmsn ,hRt the ,,0y ,.-ulller n,ud), ,,e(,flc
made 2.1S ptisoueiH In the advance. ( appeal against enforcement of the order.
Noillt' of the Ancre the Hrltlsh ou- Amsterdam reports u riot nt the Tur
,. ... ... . ii i u , riarmin ro'ng railway station when German mill.
Inue.l to-day their II Ming at Germ, n deportn
trenches on I... front of ' the re ei.t big A(.rori (..Vulory, 300
push. Ilrlth.li forces .took fro.r the C.er. )lrn .m, b tn.nsf.r to
mans tieiiche. rth'ait o lleaumont- ,r,miM fHrtm, ,.,.,,,.,. lim, , lne
l aniel, In the airectlon of serre. which ,K,,lltf whch fol,m.e(, ,.,. cMUaM
Hrl,'Jnv"i,r,irn7,Vrl,, o:r;;"u: ' w ..
The ofllclai. statement from th llrlt
Ish headquarters In France Issued at
midnight says:
"To-day despite the stormy weather we
advanced our front north and south of
the Ancre. Ground was gained chiefly
on tho south bank of the liver, where we
leached the outskirts of (Irandcouit. In
.. . . ... .ins ...i... m .
'"""r. ..F nTou.h
...
tne collecting stations. ...
Ye;terday there w !
the air.
tvMi
i .n ... .
inn aiiamv m nnn iiiisuin inaciiiiir vvns iir-
1 i ' ,i. ,. .n.IM,r-..i in
' " '
olhfr ,nC0Unters seven hostile machines
we.. ilrlven down d nnaued Tlnee of
Vmachhn's'nre "mfsslng" -
On their part of the Homme front the ; ""'' " ,
French repulsed two Herman attacks..",""' the original Invasion, especially In
one on each side of the river. The er- v "w '; "'PTta that tho deporta
n ans got close enough to the French ""'"J not contlned to the IMglan un
positions both times to be within range '"! y-d. but Include civilians now teg-
of hand grenades. The French broke up,
1. nil. ...Hie 1... lh. In. (if fllse
....in .,,...,.- ..... .... .
missile.
The first German attack was mule
the river from reronne. in uie auer-
noon the Germans south of the Somrue
attacked French trencheo In front of
llerny. but again the hand grenades
stopped them.
.
an attack In force against the Germans
holding parts of Sallly-Snllllsel and
against the trenches connecting Ssllllsel
with the northern edxe of the St. Pierre
Vaat wood. The attack was stopped
by the German barrage, the stitcmeiit
savs.
The Overseas News Agency's military . .
j&iSiOSTEND BOMBARDED
oi ill' eiii'iruiuis; oi i iw.ui. w
north llirniiuli Flench ointure of Hie
! wood.
t n'i. i.r.ii..ii nn.l Iteltflnii comniunlca'
tlons Issued to-night follow :
French "South of the Somme nil al-
temiit In- the Gentian ugatnst our
ttenches east of Uemy was r pulsed by
our barrier tiro and grenade. An In-1
termlttent cannonade o-curred on tlie
rest of the front." i
Ilelglan "There was slight attlllery
netlvlty In tlie hectors of inxuitide,
Sleenstiate and Ilel Has."
i
French Statement,
The Fiei.ch statement of to-d.iy says
"South nf the ltlver Somme n strong
1 1 I II Hll Tile II I UI 1 II r II I I HI III Hill. H
detachment of the enemy which was en.
i d'avoring to reach one' of our trenches
In the sector of Hlarhe ha- been eH-ll
repulsed with hand grenade-. Kveiy-
, wheni elee the .night Pa""! ipileilv Hud
r." , . i,l iZ.Z
We advanced our poltlon noitlie.ist
... iu.,.,.,i.l I .,.! ..,,h.l ,..
. 1,1 lc'1 ,ti"n iim.ii i ". 'n
. . , . . . 1 1
loin lioilll ui ....uvuuii. ,.., . ,.i... ...
I tt lilt" I JIIU IlPUIIirilir
irt,,,rt ltl. 1 1 -IiiiIm rue u.n.i
heaU
.'Ki.S, L ...Li.
WUI HIS I I I- II IF, II I
...1.1... u..s.. ..I. i ....nil. ..r v......
, ,;r,u,r ,, one ,.,ehln '
,.
both bank of the River Anere.
"U.eri...t..eryp,er,a,.n.l,e IWIi
In the even ng U t
ngaiist .aiiiy-naiinsei ami uie line, ou-
.1... in, ii. ... .nr em.i v
...Inlni. In Mi. ..ml I. Tlie ii I lilel.- In ntl,.
I.. ... !.. ...... It.
The attack b-oke
.1. iu'ii limine olli Ill
,.Al,ny K,,m f Herman down Prime
n.. f , i. ... '.,.i.. i i
1 ..a,,,..,i .,.i, in ii. v,. m.hui,
, ,,,, ,.frv activity was tempnrurllv
j lt.Vvel."
ROCK KILLS JOSEPH WILSON.
Vllner llrolher of Secretary of I. nline
Vleels llenth In .Mine.
.lnllNHToW'N, Pa., Nov. IS .bwel.ll
Wilson, (; year uiu, n miner, iirottn r or
William II. Wllwn. Serieiary of l.-ihor.
wnn luslnntly killed to-day m the St.
llenedlct mine of the Caiinlltoii Coal
I'ninimny. near here.
WlUon, with a companion, Moigau
iierron, was placing pillars when a nvk
flllllteell feet loni: mill .llionl :l foot
thick fell from the roof, catching hlm un-
,icr It. Iierron gave the alarm, nnd the
r, )( waB soon dug uwuv , Wilson was
,cnd. crushed nbout tlie head mid body.
(e crime to Ciunlirlu countv twelve
vrur, HK0 from WellstHiro, Tioga county,
11Mll , ,, of t, t.c-t-t known miners
f XK reion, Hncretarv Wllsmi was
.,,ie..,i i. ii.,.i,nA t.i. i,...
dentil, und Is expected to arrive at St
Ileilnlict lo-iiioiroiv
SANTA IN SOT.mEHj;' RnnVR
American Troop nt Border Will
Herelvr Many titfl.
w.himviiths-. Nov. i Ti.n,..,.,.t. .,f
1 r -!'. :r'ii?-
i L 1' eeviiici n ,hhi .iinencnii iroopa ur
. !"! , ' . ' . J
V1-.1...1 ii,..i 1. 1 ,
. .Mln .Mabel llonilmaii. head nt
the
l ""!;". onnnuiiced to-night mat
rlalleie- thioughoiit Hie countiy would
"" V ''" ,."; Klfl.
Imini.llat.iy, smii 11 rl hies ns candy, sta
I binary, pipes, tobacco ami huudl.ir
clilefs being preferred, h'nr Hie purcliase
of the socks IhcniHc-lies n cash fund will
Ii,) solicited.
riNKIIl'IIHT IIOTRI.H AMI OOl.r LINKS
Now open. Ingulr. B.abuaril Air Iain,
Ull B'nay, Atv,
POPE AND AMERICA ACT
INDEPENDENTL Y IN PLEA
TO LIBERATE BELGIANS
Secretary Grew of American Embassy Ready to Con
sider Matter With German Chancellor Methods
of Deportation Objected To.
Lomju.v, Nov. IS. A scnil-olllclal de-
' i;" '
action with the United States icgaidliiil
I iimv iiiv intliuil lion iniiCH J'iit
1 n protest to Germany against the de
pot tatlon of llelglnns. The Vatican Is
trying to prevent these deportations In
iiiiusn imniiu opiiuou mis seldom ieen
more stirred than by the piteous ntorles
which nave seeped out of llelgluin, de
tallng families divided and homes dls-
rupted by the "employment" orders.
Jrent Intel est Is manifested here In the
conference which Secretary to the Amer
ican Kmbassy Joseph C. Gicw It sched-
-."
"' with tho imperial .lein.an
i-iiancellor In llerlln on .Monday
in .h n i i.-,,... ...ii
the allied vrZ In .taiunc":
i, most of the nil-
iui Itltn uliiifiiuilK in l'i
ope lieuedlct nnd
.. . . :....
men i nnuu 10 iiuerveuu itnu save
'f m,a' "laf"'K blow. Urit
""v""""'" "egarus uie iieporiuuon oi
!!L'' f"';;":, - "'V!"
GREW PREPARES PLEA.
Berlin', Nov. Itf (via London, Nov.
IS). Deportations of workmuii from
ltelglum have been made the subject of
careful study by Joseph C. Grew. Chargo
d' Affaire of the United States Kmbassy
workers In the occupied districts were
received.
Mr. Grew ha been collecting Informa
tion on the subject from various turces
and recently has taken occasion to dis
cuss the matter Informally and un
ottlclally Willi the higher German ofhYUIs
BY BRITISH AIRMEN
Kl'I'llt'Il Vvilltoi'S Brill"" DoWII
r " 1,1 " ""'r.
Siv (icrntHii Mai'liine.s in
Hattles Near Line.
I'vsis. Nov IS French and 15nlih
ah nlanes iig.iln took the offensive
Thursday night and on Frld.y On
....... 1.. ....
Thursday night twenty-two Hri.ish nav.U
, airplanes dropped IS') bombs on extend
A ra!l, .,, .., m;l( 0 .eehrtigge.
. ... . aIrialll.rt .,. l:,,eil Geim.tn
i..,n el,U SK German nlanes were
,nniKlit down
One of them was the
I (.lolilli tb.lt
Adjutant T.ira.on has
w Inged.
To-lilglil'" I'leli h oltlcial etaleuieii! on
aviation follows- "On the nlsht of Nn
vembtr K.-l? one of our aerial Miuadlolir
ilropi.ed 1D7 shells on an enemy uvUtlo.t
r. ,n.- .....i i:.uti.,.
"Menu. ' .ley , iop,e ,a , , ,.
"r IIm.K
Zeeb.'ie
.-,.' .- , .. -
nil nir iii.mihm. i......
I.v,l, ,....l, , ,1. .,...,,1
.n iii.'i v" - ..
! K,)'; , ., . . , ,,. ,
"During the dav o. Novembei li. ,
French iiirplane, having.!! boaid Secjnd
I.leut Loste ns jillot and Serge.ttd v I
I ralle t the machine gun. brought down
ini the Somme front n German airplane.
p-co, 'X nll'X
aviators,
"Dining the dav of Novembei IT a
total ,f six German nliplniies cic
luouglit down by l-'reneh pilots. One
machine fell In Humes near llallu. An-1
oilier was ilesrrr.ve.i ny .viijuiam lar.is-
i , on, making the total number of ihle
man's air victoilcs eight Thle mach iie
fell near M.inancomt.
"Tw other German iiliidnne were
hi ought down In the north of Foinpie
court, souinwesi or voiuieies.
V spir-
Iteil engagement preceded this nicies
The llfth in ichlne milT I a broken wing
and ci-.ishcd to the earth In the legion of
Marvaux. The. sixth airplane if thn
et euiv. attacked by one nf our machines,
fell Iu tlanies Iu the region of Vlll.-cn
a.e."
Gen. Iluig repot led from the UritWh
front to-night that eight hostile aeio-
u nites bad l.cen iiowueu iu nir ugius
l""1 ,hll'e "rltlrli tilers were ml.-..-
.nr.
TUT.T.AND'S POTATO CROP LOW
Meld
Tills tear Olic-lblnl
Tlinu l.nsl.
.ein Cal.lt Vttrtteh In Til Sin nm. il.t
, "r "
' I..,;;pos, NOV. IV.- II wus si licit In
toe House of Comiiiiiiis that the year's
I vliKI of potatoes in Il'eluud I estitna'.ed
j at four tons tu tne acre, litis is one.
1 ,,ril less tbiiti hf?t year and one-sixth
iri.,, than tins average fiom linn tu
115.
Tim estimated .Meld tins eni is
',320,000 tuns, against 3,710.000 last
jcar.
TO TIIK ri'MKI AMI HKNOHTS .SOUTH.
KOlirilllltN It.VHAV.VV unrs the liest ser
vice. thrnUKh trains dully from N en
York. Ulnlng nnd sleeplnx ear mi vice.
N. V, OBIc lit Fifth Ave, Air,
to get material In shape for a conference
which ho nope soon to nave wnn nr.
vou ttethniann-llollweg, the Imperial
Chancellor.
The nubjeel Is an extremely delicate
one diplomatically nnd It requires adapt
handling, since not the L'nitod State but
fipaln I entrusted formally with tho pro
tection of Belgian Interest. But the
prominent part taken by the United
States In the question of Belgian relief
will. It Is believed, us In the question
affecting Poland, lead the Oerman Gov
ernment to show an understanding for
tho lutrrest the American Government is
displaying In this queutlon.
The chief criticism of the German
plan neern to lie not against the gen
eral Idea of providing work, even com
pulsorlly, for Idle hands, but with cer
tain a.pect of the enforcement of the
general acheme, notably the apparently
unsystematic manner" of selecting nnd
us-jetnhllng the men for transfer to Ger
many, disregarding In some Instances
the nuestlon whether they already are
employed In Ilelgium or do not belong
lo the labor classes. Mr. Grew prob
ably will see the Imperial Chancellor In
the course of the next few days.
The German Government, according
lo authoritative statements, will not
hesitate to lve the Washington Oov
Tnment the desired Information regard
ing the Belgian workmen. Tho German
Foreign Office Understands that the
American step was evoked by various
reports circulating nbroad regarding
German action in Belgium, and by a
desire to have authentic Information
regarding the measures to be taken in
case such reports should threaten to
Interfere with the execution of Belgian
relief work nnd the collection of funds
In the Culled Mates.
BELGIUM COLD TO GERMANY.
Attempt In Conciliate People
failure, saa Dr. MacKlvvrr.
Br. Boy H. MacKlwee, lecturer
In
Columbia University, who a student of
economic In Germany when the war
broke out was permitted later to Journey
extensively through Ilelgium. taking pic
tures us he went, spoke last night on
"Ilelgium To-day" before members of the
Institute, of Arts nn.l Science of Colum
bia t'rtlvctslly. accompanying hl'ad
diers by lantern slides of fltie photo
graph." h had tuken.
Dr. MacKlwee showed views nnd de
ecribed life in Hrussel. Antwerp. Lou-
vnln nnd some of the outlying districts of
Ulluni. Ills remarks tended to show
that the Germans were making many en
deavors to conciliate the population, but
wero making little progress, especially
among the better situated classes, who
nrc meeting ull advances with d cold
hostility.
-
CHARGE TREACHERY
TO TEUTON OFFICERS
( aillltliail Statement TP S (,f
(.'aiiiin Killed by (lorinan
lie Aidetl.
M-mw. Nov. 1 Canadian soldlei.
1'ave learned I., neat vvltli good nature
M tnim the privates captured r,om tin-
n. ,n.ir ..ei .ni, a.ive, ,.,r,e-, ,
'lie I eiiion mlh ers "have hiiIii.-.I ii repu-
I it Hon f"i unpenkable treachei-j." ac-
cording loan ofllclal statement ia.iied
here by Hie Canadian War Records Of.
lb e, des. rilitug In detail the taking of the
IPBlna ti.li.lt bv louilIil..ii ttoops at
midnight of November 10. afte, forty-
, .. . .... ...
fight houi- aitilleiy boniliaidment
'Instances of this tienchciy nie nil
too nuiin ious,'' the statement h.iye.
The following uiiiki sulllce as .1 spvil-
men of rhe bleed we m.. nut (,. .nm.i. .
, ,' e no .m, , ,,. n
the German hiornvd l.lmseir .... .... hi!
1 .ii,,,., , i,i. r i,u , ..'. i... ... .
, ,.,,, nu
thiew It with deadly aim. The Cin.uliau
olllcer was blow n to pleci s.
"Tlie rtiissian evidently ihought hi.'11""'1""'' tn'' mui.ialn w arfaie nnd
villain) would pass unobserved In the . 'I1( .otniuen of the, numerous pnss
fonfiislon of llylru death, but several of 1 leading to the Itiiiuamau plain, wheto
out- men had seen thu whole affair and ' vastlv supei.oi fone has trouble,
h paid the penalty. It t pot slianre, In suitil'. lolloping lip racli advantagn
therefore If the German oillcei hen gained.
cupttiied. does nm always HiJ, quiie wo j Thn enpietne . ni)vi lance of hls rein
nmlabli' ,t te, eptluii ii s tiieet- liiv lank lively little known war theatre was en
und llle " i phailzed bv one of these mllltaiy uu-
( thoiitlcs In conjiictloti with his explau.
tiiieetiue -ntr, . r,y.., ... .atloivof what was c-lia. a.-tcrlsrril ns the
KUbblANb BAG A ZEPPELIN. utrcily lo- al Importance or the icceni
, nllled gains In the Ancre s ei tor of tho
Il Is II m ii Klit lluivn Near iirn nml Soinine fioul l.v uhhh the German lost
... ,. I Iteuiuioiir-lhiniei, st, Pieiui Divion and
I re of III i miliire.l. I u,.JUC0Ult,
I'l.TtMnltAU, Nov is -Jttissl.in Hoops' (inlii ill Wen I. es I Point.
near .vimy, eoutheiisl nf pln.i, luv,. ...
1 Inoiiglit down u Urge .i.pcl'n i.lisliln
The i lew of sixteen wan captuied
i With the crew wen. taken two
i uiaili.tie surs, tln.e othee cutis i,i too
j pounil- of liotmis.
. fc coiiiiune.i iMio iiiiiiiiii oi uiu iii inn
SAYS BRITISH HIDE SEA LOSS, '-ir which mt off i. treat and forced
. ' the Germans to defend the post lo the
llerlln lleclnres u .,.r l enl . , h'M man. ...
ii in, oi Though the loss of this advanced pon
loiuiBKe Hit. liren Sank. Hon was cosily iu that it Involved thn
Ib'.til.tN, by wiicle..s, Nov is Tin.
Ovciveas Nea Agcncv savs to.ilav th-it
ow ihe statement of tli-s i'lirtlaniontar'v Fri -
u'!de- Secietaiy nf tin) llrltla'i Adnilia'tv
; op NuvL'tiilHM' 1.1 that about Ji.. percent
e j nf tlio tonnage of llrltlsli trading
Me.iineni or 1,000 tons or more had been shcrtentii line or ueienre, anu p:., ea
lost up to the end nt September ll'lfl Gi" Geimans Iu posl ious to the rear
by war or sua risks Is Ineorieel winch weie much more easy to defend.
"In fait," says th,! news iirciicv . "I'iic. 1 Ttinur.lt the Ituniaiii.iii f 1 out, accritd.
llsh ineichaiitiiien nf 11101,1 th.ii', 'mm .ng to the (ienuiirw' nsseitlon, Is to he
tons ulil.li hai) peeti lot up to the Vnd l'1'' deilslvo point nf tho war, they n
of September nf thia year totalled ;',1mi . stain entirely fiom even tlie vaguest
000 ions, in- 10.I per cent, of the tntiil tuophecy icgiirdlug the time when tho
Kngllsh loini ige nt the beginning of the plains will hn p a. 'lied and 11 decision
war. If compared only with the total van be foi. e.l. I'.ven tin. opoiatlonsj of
tonnage of ships of more than l.mtn tons the Dnluu.lju aimies, thev mi;, aie otlll
etih the percentage would be higher. , "deeply veiled in mystery "
The Hiceritui(e undoubtedly Is Increased i
considerably by Ihigllsh losses finn, sea "" 1'nH.eiilinv ' V.lvniicc.
1 isKH which nre uiikiiowd heie."
riNKIIt'HST M.MM'KK IIMI V
Sni P. M, trsln com Nov, in- - llnuKlets,
Infurniallon Beaumrd ufflce, 1 is I M'dw . y.
Air
WAR TO BE WON
IN THE BALKANS,
SAYS GERMANY
Crushing of Hiiniaiiia De
clared as the Decisive
. JJIow.
GREATER OFFENSIVE
BY VOX KALKENHAYN!
General Advance on Trail
sylvanian Front Planned
This "Winter.
AMiLKK HOPE RESTS
OX COUNTER STROKE;
British Kxpert Points 0u
(treat Danger of In
forior 3Iorale.
Military uutliorltlcH In Berlin art
quoted as saying- that the south-wests)
em thentre of war, tho Transylvania!)
campaign, Is to bo tho scene of tho dc
clsion In tho vvnr, not Iho Husslnri
tront, nor nt Verdun, nor on tha
Sommc.
The military expert of tho London
Tli.irs belloves that the Teuton can
be prevented from overrunning tho
western half of Itntnnnlu only by a
successful counter attack on a wldo
front. Hp rays though tho Teutons
have penetrated miles Into Itumanlai
poveral points, their main attack
not yet been made.
He doe not lllcvo that ntlncl. will
be prevented by the ruining of winter.,
and fen is tliul the Mipctinrity of Jftc'
Teuton lioops to die Ifiimanlmm' mitt
their liruvh-r kuiim will turn tlie tide.
Tun VI n I n Then Ire.
At pie.vnt theie are two main tlica
lies nf llKhtiug in tho llnlkans thu
Ilumaninn nnd thu .Miirccloiihui.
Tho Hiiinanl.'in theatre hn two
fronts, the Tniiisylv.uil.iii and the
Dohruilju. On tlie Trunsylvanlan front
the Teutons under Vou Fnlkenhayn
are slowly pem-ttntinK I'.iimnnla
thtotrtrh the TraiLsylvanlan Alpit Ilti
nianlu's north. in luuml try. though at
ii standstill in tlie c.ii'pathinus, Ku
rn.inia'H western liniitiil.ii-.v
In tlie DubrtidJ.1 Von .Macliensen 1
aliuiit to li ntt;u'l;-il by two Russian
and Itiiinaiiiiin nnnle, wlilrh nre try
IiiK to wrest from hlm the Constnnza
I Cern.'ivoila lutliuail iiud tlie Dannbo
, In-iilge, lo renmve the n.inger of n sec-
I "nil incision or itiiinnnla proper rrntii
,. ,,mlt,, .,m t. to. push south
tin uugh Until inlji Into Juljcarln.
I'l-onls In Vliieeilonla.
In .M.ucdonlii there ,in two nctiva
fi'iuits, the .Monastic nntl the Strunui,
In wc-tern ami e.ihUrn Mnccdmilu.
Heie 1111 imny of all the Kntcritn Allies)
Is trying lo Mart a movement north-
MWlIll"to tl vAlo Ilul
f,,n . Ul , MoM(l,p
front the former L tlie linmcllat..
object, uu tin Sti inu.i fnmf the latter,
If the DohruiIJi nml Macedonian
nimles btnh .an iiilvalic... litllgarl.i will
"' ' "-iv. u nuns, , me... nnu iu
(s,""1, toiii 1 r-.r 1.. . ...isiar,.
! "''""' i '' t Vntrnl
I I 'wei, will be i HI
.S7i7; 7.V.4. VICTORY
, Merlin l.vperi. Look fur lleclslo.
V " ".'"' '
. -ll inronned mllltaiy mhorltiei
' here. Thev no... th.n mnii, I,...,.
, , ... ' " - 7.
neamiy m ne naiKiin limiting
inrea, nltluiilttli slnuh be.-juse of tho
I These Uliee villages i. i(t the e-
ri' ine wesreriy up or me iiirmer tougiiH.
1 '"'I' advaneed pohltion held b the Get
! 'aus. which ailmitledl waa the weak.
'est In the entile line and was exposed
, to a conceiitile fire fioni the allied kuiis,
los of men, II was taken by tho hrltlsh,
11 18 1 ""' "l " f"' Rftater cost
. "a lo"!" " '"'''red, gave the
1 Geimniis vasllv sti eriKthened lines, Jut
1,1(1 ,,U! "'"''""'"t fr" i'0,t Van
i""1 1"'ort I)n""mnnt. because of the
1 The inlllt.u-y ciltio of he Ovcrtcis
News Agency, wilting or. the I'.umanlau
campaign. Kiys ,
"The effect of (,en von 1'alkeiihnyn's
unrelenting prcssum ui.nn (tie outlets
I
