THE A .1 0.Z0NA BEPOTL
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
22 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, NOVEMBER 19, 1916
22 PAGES
VOL. XXVH., NO. 184
SECY OF THE TREASURY
a m.rm'rAji at rts i
AMU riKM MJil DUinl Monday
EXPLAIN RURAL CREDITS
Fully 500 farmers and business men entation by Commissioner Norrls of
of Arizona attended the federal farm the method of organizing farm loan as
loan meeting held in the federal bulld soclations and through these assocl
ing here yesterday afternoon. A suffl- ations placing through the federal farm
ient amount of evidence relative to the .loan banks such farm loans as the as-
fartn loan needs of the state was given soclations are prepared to endorse, thel house commerce commission and au
the board to keep the memhers busy question was thrown open to general j thor of the eight-hour railroad law.
for several days. discussion and many questions were Officials said today that the American
The Farm Loan commission was late asked by local farmers as to the prob
in reaching I'hoenix and proceeded at able operation of the law, especially
once to a luncheon with the local re-, under reclamation projects,
reption committee at the Hotel Adams At a meeting of farmers in the morn
presided over by George J. Stoneman. , ing, the following definite questions
At -Mr. McAdoo's suggestion, speaking were prepared by a committee com
at the luncheon was dispensed with posed of Judge Joseph H. Kihliey, Ar
and the visitors proceeded to the Fed- thur H. Terrill and Rudolph Kuchler
eral court room where the public hear- and were presented to the farm loan
ing was at once opened, the commis- board at the afternoon meeting by Mr.
sion, comprising Secretary McAdoo and Terrill:
Messrs. Quick, Morris, Lobdell and 1st. Will lands, the owners of which
Smith being present.
Secretary McAdoo opened the meet
ing with a general outline of the ob
ject of the farm loan act, telling of its
advantages to' the farmers. Its pur
pose was to serve the community as a
whole, not farmers in any one specified
district.
The farm loan banks will be opened
not later than February of next year,
statf-d Secretary McAdoo. "There is a
possibility that all preliminary work
will lie completed In sufficient time to
warrant their opening at an earlier
date, but we cannot positively give as
surance that everything will be in read
iness before the first of February," he
said
The farmers will be able to borrow nere toaay comraaiciea a cnarge maae ugenis anu numbers, wno are in a po- rhegel. New and violent fighting on
in such amounts as he nmv desire, sub- by Joseph Hartigan, commissioner of sition to find out conditions in the ter- the Macedonian front was reorted
Ject to the limitations of the act, for a weights and measures in New York, ' ritory, they cover. I know these re- fn.m Peril n yesterday,
lieriod of not less than five or more that western farmers had under esti- porters are not 25 per cent dishonest, I Only minor operations on the Bos
nian forty years In any case, it is mated their crop reports to the federal and that the government aims to get sian Iront lire reorted by the German
announced, a certain proportion of the government and forced up the price of at the truth when making reports. war office, hut the Russians claim that
principal must be paid each year with foodstuffs. "It is absurd and preposterous to , they-have driven back Aust'ro-German
the annual installment of interest. "The attack of Mr. Hartigan on the say that there is uny concerted action attacks in the Carpathians.
The twelve federal farm loan banks honesty of the American farmers and among farmers, either honest or dis- A British army ban defeated C.Oi'O
will start operations with a capitalist- . the reliability of the government crop honest, that governs the movement of Mihammcdans on the lioundury be
lion of $9,0o0,M00 or J750.000 each. This' reporting system is Just about as far, their grain or making up the crop re-itv.een India and Afghanistan,
amount will be but a small percentage from the truth of the situation, as his ports. A Zeppelin has been -brought down
if the amount that will be required for statement of a few weeks ago that the i "Furthermore, the millers, warehouse by Russian troops near Karriy and the
the purposes of the act After the in- board of trade had bought up all the men and exporters that are real deal- crew captured, says Petrojrrad. A Brtt
itial amount of $750 000 for each bank wheat of the country and were mak- ers In cash wheat pay little attention ish colmim has relieved .Malungali in
has been exhausted, additional funds
will be procured bv the issuance of fed
eral bonds . against mortgages which
will be their security. For the conven
ient of the small Investor these fed
eral farm loan bonds will be issued in
denominations of J-S and up and will
be exemnt from federal state or local I
taxation ,
!hlr ni,r,,ao nf mrul in-line- the 1
hearing here yesterday afternoon was j
10 esiuoumi lilts uuuiiuni irro in mtr
twelve federal banks. These banks
will, of course, be established in com-
munities where they are the most
needed. On the testimony offered by-
Arizona farmers Saturday afternoon, it
Is believed that I'hoenix has an excel
lent chance of being awarded one of
the federal Institutions.
The process of securing a loan from
one of the federal banks will be ex
ceedingly simple. It was announced.
The generaf belief was that in procur
ing a loan under this act. the farmer
would be forced to go through a long
tedious process
Commissioner Norris referred to the
high rates of interest that farmers are
now obliged to oay on loans in certain
sections. The object of this farm loan
act, he said, was to give the farmers a
chance to develop their property at a :vle)"The effect8 cf General von Fal
reasonabie rate of Interest. I . ', , , ,
He explained the formation of the kenhayn s unrelenting pressure upon
numerous local loan associations, which the outlets from the Predeal, Torzber
must consist of at least ten members',. and Rothenlhurnl paf,es now are
but may be as large as is desired. No maki themselves felt in neighboring
territorial limits are nlaed upon these sectora namely. ln tne northern Ru.
associations with the single "ption ma Wallachinan Carpathians,"
that their boundaries shall lie entirely
within the reg on served by one of the N A
'h'TocaT arm" association must1, "A"- the failure of their offensive
elect a board of directors and choose the Pred?a' 'he Rumanians
a secretary-treasurer and a loan com- . compelled to confine themselves
mittee of three members. The ten or ' to the defensive but the demands ot
" ,.in,, .h- tan hoard even this form of warfare are now al-
must desire to borrow at least $20,000
when the board Is formed and can take
in other members as desired. The ap
plication for a loan is first passed
upon, without expense to the applicant,
by the local loan board, none of whom
can tie interested In the loan. It is
then forwarded to the bank and an of
ficial appraiser sent to verify the re
jiort of the board. This appraisal be
ing approved, the borrower receives
his money without delay.
The limit of the loan, it was stated,
will be fifty per cent of the value of
the lands, plus twenty per cent of the
value of the insured permanent im
provements. . Speculation Is discouraged by the
fact that loans will be made only to
farmers actually cultivating the lands
on which the loan Is made, and fur
ther by the fact that no borrower can
secure more than $10,000 in any one
loan.
After the very clear and lucid pres-
-
GIFTS FOR SOLDIERS
WASHINGTON. Nov. IS Thous
nnds of sacks stuffed with Christ- I
mas gifts are to be presented to I
the American troops at the border
and ln Mexico through the Red
Cross. Miss Mabel Hoard man. head
of the organization announced to
night that chapters throughout the
country would be asked to begin
collection of gifts immediately,
such articles as candy, stationery,
nines, tobacco and handkerchiefs
being preferred. For purchase of I
! the socks themselves, a cash fu.id
I will tie solicited.
By Eating Slowly the High
Cost of Living is Reduced
Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
CHICAGO, Nov. 18. Leisurely mas
tocation as a factor in reducing the
cost of existence, was one of the sug
gestions offered today before the citi
zens committee to investigate the high
cost of living. C. P. Ktnsey, who for
35 years has been feeding students at
Valparaiso, Ind., made the suggestion
subjoined in his list of recommenda
tions made to the committee, of which
he is chalman: Kat slowly; you don't
est so much as when you ea rapidly.
Buy in large quantities.
Don't buy food put up in factory
nnner nackages: you can't eat the
paper,
Don't consume potatoes when they
(Continued on Page Two)
1
ET
Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
CHICAGO. Nov. 18. Chicago grain
men and students of crop conditions
ing ine ilign cost 10 me consumer, ,
said J. P. Griffin, president of the ( hi- t
cago Board of Trade. "Both state- (
ments show that the gentleman has not
studied the crop situation to any de- ;
gree worthy of consideration."
Millyard R. Myers, editor of the
American Co-operative Journal, offi- j
eial publication for a number of farm-'
ers" organizations, also criticized the
statement of Mr. Hartigan.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TiF.RL.IN, Nov. 18. (Wireless to Say-
forces at their command. The Ruman
ian lines are being continuously drawn
back in the center, near lYedeal and
Campulung and south of Rothenthurm
pass. They are endeavoring to offset
this menace by attacks in nearby sec
tors of the front. At the beginning
the attacks for this purpose - were
launched at the west of the principal
passes and in the vicinity of the hard
pressed center, as in the Booza valley
to the east of the center and in the
Jiul valley, to the west. In the former
valley conditions caused the fighting
to be confined to guerilla warfare,
while In the Jiul valley the Germans,
who at the beginning confined them
selves to the defensive, have since No
vember been on the offensive- th.eir
advance being crowned on November
14 witn the capture of Buzestl.
"Under German pressure, the Ru
manian offensive continues to fall
away towards the flanks. Indirectly
connected with this are the engage
ments near Foist-Krasnolesna on the
Narayuvka in Galicia, where the Rus
sians attempted In vain to keep the
forces of the central powers tied, up In
an effort to relieve Rumania. The ar
mies of Generals Brussiloff and Lyal
levy in conseqpence of the exhaustion
of their human material, the lack of
ammunition and war machinery, are
no longer capable of any action on a
large scale."
o
GEN. EVANS RETIRES
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. 18. Brigadier
General Robert K. Kvans, commander
of the Hawaiian department, retires
TEUTONS APPEAR CAKAQIANS HAVE
TD BE FORCING NO USE FOR THE
RUMANIANS DACK GERMAN OFFICER
fj i from active service tomorrow, on ac
count of age.
cost more than a dollar a bushel; eat
rice and hominy.
John Dill Robertson, health com
missioner, who njipolnte.1 the commit
tee,, supported Mr. Kinsey's fourth
proposition by suggesting that rice.
hominy and apples be substituted for
potatoes and other high priced vege
tables. Mr. Kinsey said that cracked
rice is Just as nutritious as whole rice
and was very cheap, while corn meal
was one of the best and cheapest of
foods. A letter from John H. Hopkins,
i representing a Chicago wholesale gro
eery firm said that "unless a satistac
' tory embargo la placed on foodstuffs
this winter, famine will follow.
Rnt Steps to
-"XOut Labor
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. 18. First act
ual steps toward carrying out the re
mainder of President Wilson's railroad
legislation program to compel Investi
gation of labor disputes before strikes
can be called, will be taken Monday,
when the president confers with repre
sentative Adamson, chairman of the
Federation of Labor's declaration
against the president's plan would not
deter him.
- Representatives of the brotherhoods
and the managements will be here next
week for the hearing before the joint
congressional committee and the presi-i.cl
dent will keep in close touch with the
.
developments.
Sometime within the next week the
president is expected to confer with
Chairman Goethals and memhers of the
hoard Investlentine oners. in of the ,
1 1 . I
eigni-nuur mw.
T
The majority of government crop
reporters are not farmers at all." he
said. "They are postmasters, county .
iu government, reports, l ney uuy meir
requirements from day to day and bid ,
high enough to get them. The advance
from $1 to $2 for wheat has brought
out the grain. The speculators may
influence the price within a few cents
either way, but the real cause of the
high price of wheat Is siniply a world
shortage of wheat in the flrBt place,
and a lack of available cars in the
recond place."
Republican A. P. Leaacc Wire
OTTAWA. Ont.. -Nov. 18. Canadian
soldiers have learned to treat with
good nature and trust the privates
captured in the ranks of their Ger
man adversaries, but the Teuton offi
cers "have gained a reputation for un
speakable treachery" according to an
official communication Issued here by
MM
tne Canadian war records office de- monina ago, was washed ashore by
scribing in detail the taking of the Re- ' l-ke Michigan today. Search for
gina trench by Dominion troops at mid- ,no hoy had been kept up continuous
night of November 10, after 48 hours ,v ov h' purents and by schoolmates.
artillery bombardment.
"Instances of this treachery are all
too numerous, the statement, uivb "thai
following must suffice as a. smrlmn
of the breed we are out to nitini
One of our captains in a lull in the
fighting found a Prussian officer lying.
desperately wounded, bleeding to death.
He knelt down under heavy shell fire
and gave Ms enemy first aid, bandag
ing his wounds so that he could be
moved. Then he turned away to get
-" ' - i . . v i " I" . V i '3, lie 1 1 II ' 1 1 1 1 1 L lit-
hA B n fhu haapoT-a t I.
turned the Herman oronned hlmanlf
uUpTndK..hee.bwdrew .ZfS
Mcket and threw It with deadly aim.
The Canadian officer was blown to
pieces. The Prussian evidently thought
his villlany would pass unnoticed in the
or,,fo?'me0fhady'.nKd?hth "i'S "Tr"?'
'jr , J e.en the whole affalri
and he paid the price.
r.-- m, X,ther1"re,,l,he
I .fml n tTT lfr n.' hart no nt i Hail l.f.a
r,i . .iL n 11 i "'".orown enveloiie, and In an old-fimh-
not always find quite so arrdamle a re
ception as greets his rank and file.
NEW MORMON PRESIDENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SALT LAKE CITY. Utah. Nov. 18.
Through the death of Apostle Francis
M. Lyman, early this morning. Apostle
Heber J. Grant automatically becomes
president of the. quorum of .twelve
apostles of the Mormon church by
virtue of his seniority In ordination.
The death of Apostle Lyman followed
two days' Illness from pneumonia.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Nov. 18: President
Wilson told a delegation from the
American Federation of Labor late to
day that all class feeling in America
.should be wiped out by the establish
ment or a "justice with a heart in It.
He declared that no one who falls to
work for this end Is qualified to call
himself a true American.
The delegation comprised the mem
bership of the federation's annual con
vention, which has been meeting In
Baltimore. The delegates came to
Washington to congratulate the presi
dent on his re-election. Samuel Gom
pers, president of 'the federation, acted
as their spokesman, declaring laboring
people had come to recognize that Mr.
Wilson stands for justice, freedom and
righteousness.
"We have tnken joy In upholding
your hands in your great work," said
Mr. Gompers. "I need' not say that,
coming to me as you do on such an
errand I am very deeply gratified and
very , greatly cheered," said the presi
dent in reply. "It would be Impossible
for . me off-hand to say Just what
thoughts are stirred in me by what
Mr. Gompers has said to me as your
spokesman, but perhaps the simplest
WILSON DEFINES
WAR STATEMENT
E
TO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The British ar?ny delivered another
assault on the German lines on both
"aims 01 tiie river Ancre today. The
attack failed, according to the German
announcement. Fighting is si ill in
proress. Thls acticn foIIowe(j British
, . ...
"dancc northeast of Beaumont-Ham.
and. ,u,rtn, f 8?"Fourt ,ast nlBnt-
:r " ' " " V , " ;
r reni n nttiickQ ne ir Kfilllv'.Kiitillua
French attacks near Sallly-Salllisel
last night broke down under the Ger
man fire, according to the German re
port. On the other hand, the French
renor' 3 repulse of an attack by a
IVJIIlt
rong German detachment on the
French trenches at Btuches.
The German troops in western Wal
lachia are reported to be "coring fur
ther gains in the Alt and Jiul valleys.
The Kumar-lane announced that violent
fighting continues in those two valleys,
but say they made progress near Dra-goslavlb-.
The Serbians nnd French are closing
upon AIon.iMtir o.i the western Mace
donian front. Serbians report the cap
ture of trenches east of the Cerna,
while the French reached the outskirts
of KeminH Rrlin hnur.viir Hwlip..
attacks south of Monastir 'were de-
l ea led with heuvv I,hwh m.l that ih.
Germans rn-iuui nred n i.i,-ht
ut-i nrjii rtni wiiicn nuu oeen
Invested by oermpn troops.
Torpedoed in Harbor. -
nF.11I.IN. Nov. IX. (By wireless to
Savville). According to private re
ports received from Stockholm, says
the Overseas News agency today, the
steamer Bp ran Brecenl was torpedoed
in the harbor of Archangel by a sub
marine. It was on this steamer, the
news agency adds that the recent
Arehantu-I cxyloslon. in which several
hundred persons were retained killed
or wounded, originated, according to
official Russian reports.
These reports, the agency states,
give the numnpr of dead. at 1"0 with
.'fi 'wohnded and declares that the ex
ploi n was probably due to German
agents.
The Stockholm advices give the
number of dead at 5:10, among them
wero eleven Russians and fle British
officers.
. o
Boy's Body Found
After Months of
Futile Searching
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
CHICAGO. Nov. 18. The body of
nine year old Cyril "Sonny" Mathews.
who was lost from . his home nine
i but no word had ever been known of:1
hls fate until today.
Gvdsv bands, kidnaonlnir clews nnd I
every Influence that might have had
do with the boy's disappearance,
had been investigated. Rewards had
J"." offered and scores of detectives
a r o-c-ii t;MiiEujiiiiy uii ine searcn
without avail.
The body was found by a former
w rati
111
playmate of the little fellow. whomez, who will be in command, arrives
was wandering along the lake, and i from La Colorado with reinforcements,
its recovery, the police believe, hns " wa8 stated in Agua Prieta tonight
- ' 1 , " , ' i UIC IIUI l - Lin iri. I U I .1
, , . . .. .. .
intensified, Tamer man solved the
I,"' hl -i""- .
r.ot believed possible that it had been:erfect thnt Colonel Silvestre Quevedo
m the lake since his disappearance.
February 10.
Numerous letters received by the
- he d by ki nappe " who
f innll v killed him In fear of detection,
The uMt of tn
' 3- w lo""- a cheap
. -
oned 'hand was written: Sonnv
Mathews, died the! twenty-first day
he was lost."
Four days after the child disap
peared, the first letter came. It read:
"Mail three one hundred dollar bills
and one fifty dollar bill to the fol
lowing address, and receive your
child not the worst for hlg experience.
Mr. K. Ft. White, 919 West Madison
street, city. Say nothing to the' police.
ii win an no gnoa. as jwe have a
svatemntii, wnu- .,f ratline- vmir
Mli a In a plain envelope, K. K. W.
thing I can say is, after all, the meat
of the whole matter, what 1 have tried
to do is to get rid of any class division
In this country, not only, but by nny
class consciousness and feeling. The
worst thing that could happen to
America would be that she should be
divided into groups and camps in
which there were men and women, who
thought they were at odds with one
another, that the spirit of America was
not expressed except In them, and that
possibilities tif antagonism vere the
only thlnKs that we had to l(5ok for
ward to. '
"Achievement Is . a comparatively
small matter, but the spirit in which
things are done is the' essence of the
whole thing, and what- I am striving
for and what I hope you are striving
for, is to blot out all the lines of divis
ion in America and create a unity of
spirit and of purpose founded upon
this, the consciousness that we are ail
men and women of the same sort and
that if we do not understand each oth
er, we are not true Americans. If we
cannot enter into each other's thoughts,
if we cannot comprehend each other's
Interests, if we cannot serve each oth
er's essential welfare, then we have not
yet qualified as representatives of the
American spirit.
DELNO'S STUTZ WALKS AWAY
WITH HUNDRED MILE
HEADS PROCESSION
?
RACES ON SCHEDULE
A. A. A. RECORD MADE.
I When five races were started I
! exactly on schedule and finished in I'
I less than the time allotted them I
yesterday, George I'urdy Bullurd, I
representative of tbe contest board
f the A. A. A., declared a record
nad ben made. ,
Starler Dick Hollingsworth did I
It. Putting the races down on a
curd for certain hours to start Is a I
new stunt, and it worked out fine.
Hollingsworth was heartily con- t
grntulated bv every A. A. A. offi- I
cial. nnd in return, he erpressed j
his (rep thnnks to nil his fellow- i
woikers. for promoting the most I
I cl"niilv handled auto iay at any'i
I htate fair 1
TO
L
UW SUITS FILED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW LONDON. Conn., Nov. 18.
The sailing of the German merchant
submarine Deutschland for Bremen will
not be delayed by the action brought
against It by the T. A-. Scott company
today for the loss of the tug Thomas
. r-con, jr., wnicn was sunk by the
Deutschland early yesterday off Race
noc iv iiBin, wun me loss or us crew or
five, according to a statement tonight
! by Henry G. Hllken. president of the
Kastern Forwarding Company. Ameri
can agents of the underwater line.
Today the Seott Company lllielled
the Deutschland for 112.1100 for the loss
of the tug. President Hilken said that
steps had been taken to furnish bonds
to, meet the amount of the suit, which
would permit the submarine to leave
for home as soon as. repairs on.lt had
been" compMed. The suit Mr. Hilken
aid, was a friendly one and had been
brought by the Scott Company as a
matter of self protection.
Papers in three additional suits,
each for J50.000, It was learned tonight,
have been issued in the interests of the
families of Captain John Guerney, en
gineer William A. Caton and Cook
Clarence B. Davison, three of the men
lost with the Thomas A. Scott, Jr.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Nov. 18 Sixty cavalry
men, the advance guard of General J.
- Soharzo's column of nine hundred
men, arrived In Agua Prieta late to-
day, the main body camping for the
! night at Anavacachi Pass, twelve miles
i southwest of the town.- The column
consists almost entirely of infantry
with an artillery section of five light
Runs. , .
The troops will probably remain In
Agua Prieta until General Arnulfo Go-
I Ai ;
nianii'iiR rumors
Sll
were current In
one being to the
at neaa or a column of several htin-
dred Villistas was enroute from Clonla
Morelos. to attack the town, while an
other credited Jose Ynez Salazar with
leading several thousand Villistas
through Dolores Pass into Sonora Sf0
miles south of the border.
Today was the sixth anniversary of
the outbreak of the Madero revolution
In Mexico, but despite rumors of
threatened trouble in various parts of
Sonora, there were no reports tonight
of any disorders.
Villa's Presence Denied
WASHINGTON. Nov. 18. Reports of
the presence of Villa followers near
hy not later than Wednesday 16th, at
four p. m."
The address failed to reveal the
writer, and letters to White were re
turned undelivered.
REGARDLESS
MEXIGANSMOVETR00PS UPTO
BORDER. REPOF! TS ARE ALflFIMIfJG
AMERICANISM
"Nothing alarms America so much
as rifts, divisions, the drifting apart
of elements among her people and the
thing we ought to strive for is to close
up every rift, and the only way to do it,
so far as I can see, is to establish Jus
tice not only, but justice with a heart
in it, Justice with a pulse in it, justice
with sympathy in it. Justice can be
cold and forbidding, or It can be warm
and welcome and the latter is the only
kind of Justice that Americans ought
to desire. I do not believe I am de
ceiving myself when I ssy that I think
this spirit is growing ln America. I
pray God it may continue to grow and
all I have to say is to exhort every one
whom my voice reaches here or else
where to come Into this common move
ment of humanity.
In addressing Mr. Wilson. Mr. Gom -
pers said the delegates had decided maintained, was made by Sir Rober'.
without any pre-arrangement to come Liiird Borden, premier of Canada, in
and congratulate the president. i an address ut a luncheon given in his
"We hope that your next four years honor at the Lawyers' Club here to
In the White House," he continued, day. The peace which the entente u!
"will be filled with the meat of achieve- Hes seek. Sir Robert added, departing
ment for the good of 'humanity." (from his pre'yi qpA speech is an ubid
After the speeches, all of the dele- Ing one and iv,t an Inconclusive, one.
gates shook hands with the president. The club electeti .t"iie premier as an
"Look out for mv boys," said "Moth- honorary life mt.mber.
er" Jones as she greeted Mr. Wilson.1 Guests wit4l ir Robert were Sir
r ... .... . , - ' i -.-
AL GLADNEY DRIVING LOCALLY
OWNED OVERLAND GIVES GREAT
EXHIBITION. COMES IN TIP
Never headed, never
.er headed, never worried and
pushed very hard, R. H. Deltio,
never
or Tucson, driving Stutz number 3.
won the annual MO-mile auto race
ut the state fair grounds yesterday
ufternon. negotiating the oval for the
century grind in 1 hour. 43 minutes
and 12 seconds. R. F. Bennett in
another Stutz was declared second,
his time being 1 hour, 45 minutes,
10 1-5 seconds, while Al Gladney, a
Knoenix boy mounted in an Over
land, was given third place, time 1
"our. minutes, iu seconds.
everyone conceded that Ielno won
the race, but there were several thou-
sand iieople who cried aloud, long and
I piteouslv when It was announced that
i t.ladney hart been dropped back to
wiiru. Ana lor tnis reason. 1 here , quired, it was possessed of a whole
seems to have been some mistake in'libr.'ry
the pit checking, and some of those i Delno in his winning Stuzt, was
...... nm6 u. Knvaie ciiecu on
niadney. declare that he was a Ian
ahead of Bennett at the finish. Those
who had tied their fortunes to Glad
ney's skill and nerve, declare that
Bennett came into the pits, changed
a casing, was checked when he came
in, and a few moments later when
he pulled out, giving him a lap upon
which he had no lawful claim. The
judges, however, did not see it that
way, decided that the ten seconds
elapsed time given to Bennett on the
start, made him the rightful possessor'
of second place, and the lucky posses
sor of a mor'gage on second money.
Eleven can- started. The Cole en
tered by A. A. McDaniels and the
Fiat entered ty C. O. Miller, were
scratched prior to the start. Only
five cars withstood the terrible rrin l,
and were able to stick their rw-e
over the finish line, and proudly snoi
that they were good for a hundred
miles on a one-mile truck. 3 chapter
of hard luck, rangtng from spark
plug trouble to frozen motors elimin
ated the rest of the contestants. The
Marmon. driven by Tom BreweV, fin
ished right after the three in the
money, while a National driven by
t . fi. Miller, rolled in last.
Chihuahua City were denied in a dis
patch received by the Mexic.n embas
sy today from General Tivvino. The
embassy issued this statement:
"The embassy is in receipt of news
from General Trevino that the reported
presence of Villistas near Chihuahua
City is incorrect, as is also the report
that the constitutionalist forces intend
to evacuate that city; the fact being
that General Trevino is taking the field
with a sufficient force to pursue Villa
with vigor, and proposes to carry out
an active offensive campaign. Chihua
hua City has been amply fortified and
a sufficient number of men left there to
protect It from any possible attack."
More Fightinq
EL PASO. Nov. 18. Government
agents here have received a report of
a skirmish between Villa forces and
the vanguard of General Trevino's col
umn near Rachimba Pass, south of
Chihuahua City. General Trevino, ac
cording to this report, has returned to
Chihuahua City.
General Gonzales, in Juarez, said
late today, however, that he received
no such news" and did not believe- it
true.
Soldiers Barred Out
MEXICO CITY, Nov. 18. Word has
been received here that General Alvaro
Obregon, minister of war has sent a
circular to all generals and military
commanders which says that if they
want to run for governor of the states
in which they hold commands, they
must resign from the army. The oh
ject of the circular, it Is said, is to
avoid military domination of the
election.
CABRERA SEES MINING MEN
Republican A. P. Lea tad Wire
NEW YORK. Nov. 18. Luis Cabrera,
chairman of the Mexican commission
ers of joint commission in session at
Atlantic City, N. .1 conferred here to
day with representatives of American
owners of mining properties in Mexico.
The purpose of the conference, it was
learned, was to discuss the various
mine taxation decrees issued by the
Carranza government.
Borden Appeals to Lawyers
To Define International Law
Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
NEW. YORK, Nov. 18 An appeal to
the bar of the United States, a great
neutral nation, to aid in defining in
ternational law and right in such
' terms that world peace might l
CLASSIC;
ALL WAY
i When Starter Pick Hollingsworth
lined up the eleven panting, roaring
eat;er speed creations yesterday after
noon, mere were two tavorites. Neith
er of them finished, much to the re
gret of a number of would-be get rloh
Onictr unoMl fanu Tho II,,... .
Six, which showed more speed than
any car on the course during the uft
ernon, was the prime bet carrier,
while the Paige entered by the
McKinney-Cord, was running it strong
for betting honors. Both cars elicited
songs of praise, and ejaculations of
sheer delight, when the motors wers
turned loose. lYior to the start of
the
' liberty of the track, and demonstrated
tint where a volume of speed is re-
tne first man to strike the south
curve when the word was given. Ho
obtained the lead, and there he stuck
for mile after mile. The Hudson,
which was giving him a merry chase,
developed spark plug trouble at the
end of the fourth mile, and made
the first call at the pits. Quick
changes were made, there was no
stop for a stirrup cup, and it was off
again, amidst the thankful cheers of
its backers. For a few minutes the
procession kept up, when all of a
sudden, the' audience was surprise!
to see three machines lined up at the
I its at once. The Mercer came in for
a tire, having developed a leak some
where along the back stretch, the
l'a'.ge had been feeding too rnuch oil.
and had smeared, up any iiumbe?"'(,f
spark pllips, and the Hudson was
having trouble somewhere near its
appendix.
All three got to going again, and
joined in the futile uttempt to head
off Delno in his Stutz. The Spa, at
the end of the tenth mile was chasing
Delno with a grim determination to
bring him to earth. The Marmon
was third, while Al Gladney was
holding on with a death grip to fourth
place. During the first fifteen miles,
tha Hudson was the possessor of the
hard luck cup. time after time tt
was necessary to bring it into the pits
to clean spark plugs. There seemed
to be something wrong with the oil,
iid at last it was decided to scratch
the car. While the Hudson was on
the track, it showed dashes of speed,
which fairly amazed the spectators.
The Paige was also carrying a bounti
ful supply of gloom somewhere on top
of the hood, and was finally forced
out wilth carburetor trouble, after
having made a game race as long as
it lasted.
At the end of thirty miles, Delno
was still leading, his time being 3n.T,
while the Spa was second, the Mar
mon third, the Stutz No. 10, fourth,
the Mercer fifth, the Overland sixth,
and the National seventh. The Na
tional's time for the thirty miles was
(Continued on Page Five.)
Lane Reports to
Wason Regarding
Joint Commission
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. 18. The dead
lock reached by the Joint international
commission in session at Atlantic City,
to disci's Mexican border problems
was taker, up tonight at a Whit
House conference between President
Wilson, Secretary Lane, chairman ol
the United States commissioners See
retary Lansinrj and Secretary Baker.
Mr. Lane -arrived here today to re
port to the president on the situation.
On entering the White House, ho
wjuld not discuss the outlook.
He and Secretary Lansing and
Buker are understood to have gone
over in detail the objections raised by
Luis Cabrera, chairman of the Mexican
delegates to the suggested plan of bur-,
der control.
Officials have made it plain that if
satisfactory arrangements for the pro.
tection of the border can be made.
General Pershing's American troops in
Mexico will be withdrawn.
Tonight was the first time President
Wilson ami Secretary Lane have con
ferred since the president met all of
the members of the commission at
New Lonlon, Conn., soon after it be--gan
its work. Frequent reports from
the American commissioners, however.
have
been received at the hite
House.
Alexauder La Coste. former speaker of
the Canadian senate; L. C. Christie
of Canada's department of external
aff'ii.s; A. W. At waiter, president of
the bar association of Montreal and
i i her men and women notable In the
dominion's affairs. "
Prominent Americana present in
cluded Edgar M. Mullen, Henry Clews,
John Hays Hammond, Issac N. Selig
man, B. H. O'Dell and Adolph S. Oi bs.
William A. rrendergast, controller
of New York city, welcoming the
t'anadainns on behalf of Mayor Mit
chel, "read letters of regret from for
mer president William ri. Taft ano.
Joseph H. .Choate.
