1
MAILS
Prom n Franela?
Persia Mani, Jan. 7.
For San Franclaco:
Nlpion .Maru. Jan. 6.
From Vancouvtr:
Niagara, Jan. 26.
For Vancouvtr:.
Nlajtara. Jan. 7.
Kvmlnr ' Bulletin. Kat. 1882, No. 363
liawallan Star. Vol. XXI II. No. 74t4
14 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF .-HAWAII, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, HU;.U PAGES
PRICE FIVE CENTO
T
RUSSIANS CLAIM S
L V
ii$li v jiJ JJliyl i lii IS Edition 1
II II
N
op atmm
ON
EAST
u
1
.
A -.
1)
POLITICIANS GET
READY TO LAUNCH
CAMPAIGN OF 1 91 6
Two Old-Line Parties in Hawaii
Soon to Name Delegates to
National Conventions
R EPU B LI C A NSIJ K ELY TO
NAME SIX AND CONTEST
Believe Fight Before National
Committee Will Win; Demo
crats to Elect Their Quota
iBy Direct Primary
Six defeat os are virtually sure to
1 named by Republicans of Hawaii
to go to the national convention lu
Chicago next June. National Com
mitteeman Charles A. Rice'a sugges
tion that the G. O. P. liTe should
name its allotted two and fpur others
besides, trusting to a contest before
the national committee, to eat the
four, meets with approval of leading
Rr publican a who read the mgKestion
In yesterday's Star-Bulletin, following
Hire's return from-the mainland.
' Ha-walLla o titled to its. customary
six, the Republicans feel, and the sen
timent on the national committee Is
tsald to be strong for a restoration of
the old order.
Somw of the men' who are under
stood to1 be willing to go as Hawaii's
delcpates are National Committeeman
Rice, lxrrin Andrews, chairman of the
Republican territorial central commit
tee; Vice-Chairman Robert V. Brecfc
on. Polecats Kuhio. II. I Holstein of
Hawaii, former national committee
man, and Senator A. L. Castle of
Oahu. ,
In order to give the outside islands
representation, the Republican custom
Is to name three delegates from this
island and one each from Hawaii
Maul and Kauai. On the list alxve.
Maui is not represented and it Is entirely-
probable that either Senator
Harry Baldwin or Frank Baldwin will
be looked oil wjih favor as a possible
delegate. '
The return ,vf Rice and , Andrews
' J csterday fcas stirred ""up thing politic
cal. Each brought back a trunkful of
mainland political rosslp and forecast?
From now on both the Republican and
democratic parties. In Hawaii wl'l be
. Ketting ready to send their delegates
to the tig national conventions.
Say Old Fight It Dead.
The forecast In the Republican par
ty la for a harmonious contest for the
six places. The old KuhiFrear fight
which disrupted the .party four, year?
ego will not be revived, it is declared
by men who supported Kuhio then
and since and worked for his s.iccess
in the last election for delegate t
Congress, Furthermore, they say that
Rice's opposition to Kuhio for the
nomination In 1913 will not now mili
. tate against Rice's going as a delegate
to the convention.
"We want entire "harmony and no
: effort will be made to stir up past Is
sues and use them against candidates
for delegates now," said a leading Re
rub'icaD this morning.
The Republican delegates will be
chosen this year in practically the
same way as heretofore, the party
lules Btlll retaining the territorial con-.
venticn. This convention must meet
at least 60 days prior to the national
convention, hence it must be held at
least by April 7. So before long the
Republican cohorts will be , humming
with the preparations for the contest.
Since the direct primary law went
luto effect in the territory governing
the elections to office, conventions arc
". few indeed.
There will be activity soon In the
Remocratic camp for delegates to the
national convention are to be chosen 4
by the. direct primary method. This
is fully provided for in the revised
party rules, effective at the beginning
; of 1916. The representation is thus
apportioned: Honolulu gets three
delegates, Hawaii one, Maui one and
Kauai one. To carry out the primary
plan, aspiratns for delegate must file
(Continued on p&e two)
. OIL-
TO GET PATENTS
K g 8 S S 8 K 8 8 E 8 8 8 8 X 8 X
' EV ' : .
5j (A. F. by Federal Wireless.) a
X VISALIA, Cal.. Jan, 5 rat-
-Vents to two valuable claims in.
the Midway oil Gelds will be s
X granted to the Honolulu oil com-
fc panr. CauL Matson is its rresi-
dent
The Honolulu Consolidated Oil
X Company has been contesting for
yt ..lands held up bv the government,
a Recent reports "have forr-ast fa
te' vorable decision for the owners.
FOR RENT
Furnished or unfurnished, a
large two-story house. Apply
408 Bretania St., : or phone
3230.
HON
CON
HE MIGHT CAST THIS !
HAT INTO THE RING
7
r
7
:..
V
.. Charles E. Hughes, former gov
J ernor of New York, now supreme
court justice. Republican of Ha
j wail returning from the mainland
j say he is a1 strong presidential
possibility.
4
'ON A VACATION
Marcallino Schmidt, Runaway
Prisoner,' Had Dagger When
Run Down on Big Island j
(Special. Star-Bullettn Wlrelcwl
1 HILO, Jan. 5. After having been
at large terrorizing th country dis
tricts for about three weeks, Marcalli
no Schmidt, a territorial prisoner who
escaped from the road gang, was cap
tured at Paauilo last night by Officer
Qampbell. When he was searched after
surrendering Schmidt waa found to be
armed with a-dagger. He declared he
was merely "taking a vacation." The
prisoner will be sent back to Honolu
lu for confinement In Oahu prison.
Marcallino Schmidt was convicted at
Hilo in October, 1914, of first degree
manslaughter and sentenced to from
10 to lis years' Imprisonment. He es
caped from a road gang on ths Big
Island on December 12. Schmidt was
found guilty of having -murdered a la
borer during a drunken brawl.
Associated lress by Federal Wireless
LITTLE ROCK, Ark, Jan. 5. Allen
Nixon, member of the Arkansas leg
islature, was shot from ambush and
killed today near his heme in ths
Ozarks. A bloodhound has been tak
en out on the trail of his supposed
assailant. '
FIGHTS ARE DEVELOPING
IN CALIFORNIA SESSION
Associated Press Kv Federal Wireless
SACRAMENTO,' CaL, Jan. 5.
Strong opposition is expected to the
passage of any bill to correct the elec
tion law tangle or the purchase of the
California building at the exposition
for a normal school. The special ses
sion is now meeting.
CALIFORNIA MAY
GET U. S; SCHOOL
Associated Press by Federal Wireless
WASHINGTON, D. O, Jan. 5.-
Senator Phelan of California Intro
duced in the uppcr house today a bill
appropriating $10,000,000 for a naval
and aviation academy to be located at
San Francisco.
COAST LEAGUE TO OPEN
ITS SEASON ON APRIL 4
Associated Press by Federal Wireless
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal- Jan. 5.
The Coast League schedule-makers
met today and decided to start the
1916 season on April 4.
SUGAR
SAN FRANCISCO, .Cal., Jan. 5.
Sugar: 96 degrees test, 4.477 cents.
Previous quotation. 4.45 cents. ;
' - ."
The case of K. Markle, who- pleaded
guilty to a charge-of usury, has been
ctintiniK-d in Circuit Judge Ashford's
tyurt until 9 o'clock next Saturday'
morning for sentence. .; -
ESCAPED BAD Ml
CAUGHT: MERELY
ARKANSAS SOLON
SHOT AND KILLED
'lOOMenlnlOOFMnutes'
tX
Made In 75-Still Going
HOW THE SCORE KEPT MOUNTING.
Success of the Y. M. C. A. "100 Men in 100 Minutes" campaign which
began this; afternoon at 2 o'clock was already assured'at 3M5 this after
noon, when, with still .25 minute to go, the canvaraera reported a total
of exactly 100 new recuit all signed up in just 75 minutes of hustling.
At 2:20 this afternoon the Ford team in the Y. M. C. A. campaign for
members was leading with .13 members. The Cadillac squad had -secured
five, the Buick two, and the Reo and Overland team had one' each. The
total up to 2:20 wa 23 new member.
At 2:40, the Ford team was still leading in the contest with 18 members,
making a gain of five in 20 minute. The Overland! jumped to second
place with a total of 14 members, which was the biggest gain during that
period. The Buick team showed 12 member, the Cadillac eight and the Reo
team five. Sixty-four new members had been obtain ad -the end of 40
minotea. i ).' '?-. Oy.
At 3 o'clock the Ford team still held the lead with 25 members, a gain
of seven in 20 minutes. Overland wa
13 showed one gain. The Cadillac representative had a dozen name, but
promised to increase this in the next period. Reo men made a good show
Ing, increasing from five to 10. The Studebaker wasllaet with eight mem
bers. Total 72. ' . ' .. i ' :
Promptly at 2 o'clock, committees
from the Automobile Club and from
the Y. M. C.. A. began to campaign for
new member In decorated automo
biles. Six machines entered the con-,
test: Cadillac, Ford, ,Studebaker,
Buick, Overland and Reo.
SPRIi-PEDEN
ATTORNEYS FILE
Seek tp Oust Indictment on
Ground There Are No Facts
: to Constitute Crime
Nearly half a score of reasons why
the indictment returned against Miss
Dorothy Spring, a. tourist, and Dr. John
LONG DEMURRER
C, Feden, physician at the Queen's establlfhed monarchy in China is be
hospital,' Bliould be set aside are con- ing raised by Chinese In "the United
tained In k demurrer which has been states who declare that President
filed in circuit court by the defend-
ants. ;
The indictment aeainst Miss Sorlne
and Dr. Peden charges them with hav
ing failed to aid a person injured by
an automobile. Mrs. George Herman
Moore died at the Queen's hospital
a week ago last Monday" as a result
of being struck by a machine driven
by Miss Spring. Dr. Peden was her
companion.
Both the defendants were "sched
uled to plead in Circuit Judge Ash
ford's court today. Upon the filing of
the demurrer to the indictment, the
case was 'continued until 9 - o'clock
next Saturday morning, at which time
tho rfPTmirrpf will h urcunri !
The ; prosecution announced today
that Attorneys E. C. Peters and Ray
O'Brien have been secured to assist
the city and county in the case.
No Intent Charged. '
Jt Is alleged In the demurrer that
the , Indictment against Miss Spring.
and Dr. Peden does not state tacts
sufficient to constitute a crime under
the laws of the territory, in that it I ."The Chinese aave gone in for ath
does not charge any guilty intent on letlcs, and in this respect the Far
the part of the defendants in doing or East track and field meet, which is
not doing the acts alleged by the in- held annually in Shanghai, has done
dlctment c -
The demurrer further alleges that
section 4102 of the revised laws of
Hawaii, under the provisions of which
tt defendants were indicted, and
which they are alleged to have 'vio
lated. is unconstitutional and void for
the reason that "it requires a person
to be a ' witness against herselF or
himself "in a criminal case in con
travention with the provisions of arti
cle five of the amendments of the con
stitution." .' . ;:';'
It is further declared that the sec
tion is void for the reason that it "Im
poses cruel, unusual and .infamous
punishment for the doing or failure to
do certain acts, innocent in them
selves, either in the doing or the omis
sion thereof, without prescribing any
felonious, guilty or criminal intent or
knowledge or malice in the person or
persons eo doing or failing to do said
acts."
Circuit Judge Ashford may render a
verbal decision on the demurrer fol
lowing the argument next Saturday.
. 1 a mm r;
fT888888BKB.8BI.8BBK
;
K GREAT NORTHERN TO
gx HAVE MORE THAN 400
X FOR HER THIRD TRIP
.
K That the Hill liner Great
K Northern will bring more than
C 400 passengers to Honolulu when
K she arrives a week from today
v. on her third call here under the
X triangular service, is stated In
X. wireless advices received today
K by the Hawaii Tours Company
X from its San Francisco office. -X
The big steamer was due to a
X sail from San Francisco this X
X afternoon and from San Pedro to- X
X morrow afternoon. She is sched- a
X uled to reach Hllo next Tuesday a
X morn in c at 9 o'clock and to ar- X
g rive here at 10 o'clock Wednes- X
X day morning.
X On her last trip here, Dec. X
X 23, the Great Northern brought a a
X total of 379 passengers from the X
X coast, of w hom 282 were first X
X cabin. : X
ggSSBSBS8 98BBflB8
a second with 14 and the Buick with
A special clock had been placed in
front of the Y. M. C. A. building, and
the progress of, the campaign was
marked on the minute hands of the
dial by Jay A. Urice. '
The following members of the asso
(Continued on page two)
Important Fighting; Now Going
on in Yunnan; Arsenal in
Hands of Nationalists
Associated Press by Federal Wireless.
t SAN FRANCISCO, Cal Jan. 5-A
huge war fund to oppose th - newly
j Yuan should not be allowed to become
ehlberor. The fund, which is being
raiaed under the direction f the Chi-
nese Republican Association, v which
has branches in North and 'South
America, will soon reach a million dol
lar,-- vVv. -v : r-K' 'J
Ths association's leader here an
nounced today that they have - des
patches from China: advising 'them
that engagements are taking 'place in
the province or Yunnan, ine revolu
tionists have seized the arsenal there.
Further south ths revolutionists are
awaiting the aid of Chinese in Ameri
ca before carrying their operations
further.
"China is destined to be a great
nation. The possibilities appear to be
unlimited,? said John S. Tlchenor,
army and navy secretary of the Y. M.
C. A., who arrived in Honolulu yester
day from the Orient "The Chinese
are progressive now. and in a few
years we shall see a change that will
startle the world. .
much to bring the countries of the
(Continued
page two)
EXPERIENCED BY
T. K. It. STEAMER
"Rotten weather all the way," was
the manner in which. Purser H. J.
Grasett Of the T. K. K. liner Nippon
Maru described the voyage here from
Yokohama. The steamer docked at
1:45 this afternoon at Pier 7, and sails
for San Francisco at 9 o'clock tomor
row morning, taking mail. She ' en
countered head winds all 'the way
frc-tn Yokohama, w:hich she left De
cember 26.
Eight cabin and 137 steerage pas
sengers got off here. The : through
passengirs 'are' 69 cabin and 217 Bteer
age. Most of the steamer's cabin pas
sengers are missionaries retumfns
from the Orient Capt H. S. Smith is
the steamer's commander. :
The Nipixin brought 57 bags of mail
and 790 tohs of cargo for Honolulu.
Throuch cargo is 2800 ' tons. Among
the through cabin 1 passengers of
prominence are H. E. Francisco Ortiz,
minister from Argentina to Japan, and
Capt Benjamin Tappan, IT. S. N.. com
mandant of the naval stations at
Olongapo and Cavite. P. I. Capt. Tap
pan was met at' the pier by his friend
Rear-Admiral ; Clifford J. Boush, com
mandant at Pearl Harbor.
Court martial in the case of Ben
Carchell, 25th Infantry, charged with
lulling Benjamin Frau aiin of the same
regiment, will be held this week. Car
chell is now locked up in the guard
house awaiting trial. ;
Carchell stabbed franklin with a
penknife Christmas, day in the com-
Spany barracks at Schofield. .-
CHINESE IN K
SrSS
on
: - ' ' i a-B ,
PRESIDENT'S NAVY
PROGRAM IS FAVORED
v Hon. L. P. Padgett, chairman of
the house committee en' naval af
fair. He favor the president's
program of naval expansion. Mr.
Padgett Is a representative from
Tennessee.
RAP ROOSEVELT
Senate Committee Finds No
Evidence Foreign Interests;
Behind Measure
Associated Press by Federal Wireless
yVASHINGTON, O. C, Jan. 7. Both
majority and minority of . the special
senate committee named to Investi
gate charges concerning the. ship
chase bill reported today. Both
tions found the charges that, foreign
interests were behind the government
bill to be baseless. In addition the
majority of the committee denounced
ColRoosevelt for his failure to testify
regarding his statements on the
matter. .'- ., .
It was charged that the government
might be intending to purchase' intern
ed or refugee German vessels and that
German interests were behind the bill.
IN ST. PETER'S
Associated Press by Federal Wireless
. ROME, Italy, Jan.' 5. Because a
man attempted suicide in It sacred
domain, the basilica of St Peter's has
been temporarily closed. The man,
Antonio Giovannolo, tried to stab him
self fatally but the wound waa slight.
Bleocf waa spilled on the floor and the
basilica will not be reopened until it
has been reconsecrated.
HAITI REBELS
i LOSE IN FIGHT
PORT AU PRINCE, Hayti. Jan. 5.
A rather serious revolutionary out
break ha occurred here. The Ameri
can marines patrolling to preserve or
der were attacked by the rebels, one
of whom was killed.- The Americans
were unhurt by the rifle fire.
BIO (iiSlllSY
The following cablegram from of
ficial German sources was received
today:.;.
German Headquarters, January 5.
Artillery and mine combats are taking
place at several places on the west
front today." , . ' .-.'
SON OF N0TELT SINGER
SCHUMANN-HEINK DIES;
M0THERATHIS BEDSIDE
Associated Press by Federal Wireless
SAN DIEGO, CaU Jan. 5. -Hans
Schumann-Heink, son of; the noted
operatic singer, died here today of
pneumonia. His mother came from
Chicago to his bedside. He was 23
years of age and is survived'by a wid
ow and two 'children.
f
. . f .: -J . --
1 s j
1 II
IN REPORT UPON
SHIP DILL PROBE
TRIES SUICIDE
COMPULSORY MILITARY BILL If
PARLIAMENT; UNMARRIED UEl
MAINLY LIABLE; IRELAND OUT
SHARPEST FIGHT IN GOVERNMENT SINCE WAR BROKE
OUT MAY RESULT GREECE DELIVERS NEAR-ULTIMA-.
TUM TO ALLIES, DEMANDING RELEASE OF DETAINED
SUBJECTS ONLY TWO CHILDREN SAVED FROM PERSIA
Associated Press Service by Federal Wireless
J LONDON, Knlanl, .Ian. 5. TIieiii(t iiriMrtant news Into
today from the war arena is tliat the Russian i-ampain in
Bessarabia lias assumed lare in'oportitjus and is resulting in
a series of defeats for the Teutons. .
: The Teutons who have In-en holding t'zernowitz, on th
extreme southeast end of the long line, have evacuated the-ost.
which had beeome untenable owing to the eaiture of the sur
rounding heights. The winning of (V.ernowitz is an im)ortant
feature in the furtherance of the Russian campaign. The Teu
tons are bv this deprived of 'the important railway from Czer-
no wit z to Salestchitky. The Czernowitz-Kolomea railroad is
also seriously threatenel. Czernowitz ihas already during tho
war changed hands four times. . m ' .
i NKW YORK, N. Y., Jan. 5 Congressman Buchanan .of
Illinois, recently indicted for conspiring to foment strikes iu
munitions plants, being connected with Labor's National Peace
Council, surrendered hmiselt today, wtis arraigned anu iipaueu
not guilty to the charge, lie was released on bail of $5000. -
LONDON, England, Jan.';"). It is reported hero that the
r.. iir,, t? sJoKcrl.tii-T- iif .Wiiiiliimrliiii H. ( Is otu of tho
Alt: , . j. luuit. a a. iio'm) v.
victims of the Persia sinking.
They are missionaries in India.
LONDON, England, Jan.'S.British cajjuaUies in tho great
battle of Loos fought last September, amounted to J38 otTicets.
- arid 57,288 men, according to announcement in the house of
commons tins atternoon. i '
Britam Is Brought To Face
Compulsory Military Service Nov;
LONDON, England,.Jan. 5. Ireland is excluded from the
i)rbvisions of the compulsory
today in I'arJiament.
LONDON, England, Jan. 5.
bring more British subjects to the colors is now beiore tne counirj.
Premier Asquith today introduced in Parliament a bill providing
for a compulsory service which primarily will force to join the army
bachelors and widowers with no dependent children. Though it.js
not generally inclusive, still the bill is of such a nature that the most
radical opponents of conscription in any form may contest the bill
vigorously in Parliament. y . .
Under the terms of the measure introduced by the premierrall
males between 18 and 41 are liable for immediate call to the. colors
and must respond under penalty. Bachelors and widowers without
children are particularly liable to be impressejj into service.
In introducing the measure, the premier made an address which,
itj is hoped, will pacify the extreme anti-conscription members. He
Wd that no case is made out for general compulsion and that thff.
measure does not provide for universal impressment, hence it is
supportable by those who oppose conscription.
Simultaneously with the introduction of the bHl there was made
public a report from Lord Derby, in charge of recruiting, which ex
plains why the cabinet has found it necessary to bring the measure
A T'mlor the Dprhv nlan
more than two and one-half millions of men in England, Scotland
and Wales have enrolled, but after those engaged in indispensable
industries and those unfit for military service ImtLbevJtlU-arded,
there were left but 1,100,000 available. . . ; v .
Of the unmarried only 65O,00Of ailed to answer. The govern
ment will now attempt to redeem the pledge made by Premier As
quith some time ago that no married men will be called while there
remain considerable numbers of unmarried men who have not volun
teered. : :-- " '
Persia Sank So Suddenly Those
Aboard Didt Realize Danger
LONDON, Eng., Jan. 5. Several survivors of the Persia have
arrived at Alexandria and there given out their stories, confirming
he previous reports that the steamer sank giving very little time
for those aboard to make preparations to escarifr. The survivors de
cuare that the sinking of the P. & (). liner was so sudden they were
unable to realize what was happening. Only two children were saved
from the sinking linr. .
Stricken Steamer Sinking At Sea
NEW YORK, X. Y., Jan. 5. Grave fear now exists that the
steamer Thessaloniki, which suffered engine trouble at sea which has
riot been fully explained, may not be brought to shore. The Thessa
loniki broke down last week, but by wireless messages summoned
feveral vessels to her aid and the5 passengers were removed. The
tow-lines parted in a storm and were to have leen re-secureI yes
terday but apparently the vessel is now sinking. Urgent calls for
help have been sent out by the steamer's wireless and it is reported
that the boiler and engine rooms are flooded. .
':.;, - :-': ' , '.- ',-
Shell Accident Kills Eight French
LYONS, France, Jan. 5. -By the accidental explosion of a shell
here today, eight soldiers and one civilian were killed and 20 other?.
f .'-: :
Jle was going to joip: his wife.
v
military service bill, mtroaucea
Compulsory military service 4o
