A BOLT everybody who is really interested in Wash
ington, the city's and people's welfare, reads
The Herald. The HERALD averages more than
30,000 paid circulation daily, which covers most of the
b-est homes in Washington.
no. ;wkx.
WEATHER: CLOUDY, WARMER.
AS first announced January 1, 1^16. Tbe Herald
guarantees full money? worth to the pur
chasers of article? advertised in the display column?
of this paper by any \<v ashingtor, merchant
WASHINGTON. D. C- WEDNESDAY, ?JANUARY 5, 1916.
ONE (ENT.
Il ?.-?.?... ?? ... Pal.?.
Ib-ere??, fi ?? HtltHl
WOMAN'S PART IN
UNITING WESTERN
WORLD IS THEME
Work of Fair Sex Is Upper
most Note at Pan-/Wieri
can Scientific Congress.
MRS. LANSING PRESIDES
Red Cross Activities Explained
by Mabel Boardman. Head
of American Society.
ANTHROPOLOGISTS END WORK
Che*ter L Jenes Explain? How Re
publics Have Been Enabled to
Pass Financial Crisis.
*Wom?n'? work tn th? proposed plan?
for promoting: a closer alliance be
tween the republic? of the Americas
waa th? predominating: keynote In the
deliberation? of th? Pan-American
Scientific Contres? yeeterday.
The woman'? auxiliary conference?
were resumed In Continental Memorial
Hall yesterday morning- after a recess
of three <iays. The meeting: waa open
ed by Mrs. Robert Lansing-, wife of
the Secretary of State, who shortly aft
erward? turned the chair over to Miss
Mabel Boardman, chairman of the
executive board uf the American Red
Cro??.
Sectional meeting? of the congre??
continued In the various hotels of
Washington and other auditoriums.
Most of these sections will complete
their work within the next day or two
and stand ready to adjourn. Section
3. devoted to anthropology, which body
baa been meeting at the New National
Museum, finished Its work yesterday
and adjourned.
Pii.li.- Credit u..........I
The papera prevented to the sectiona
>esterde*y were mostly of a scientific
character. One of the moat import
ant waa a resume of the extraordinary
effort? made by South American re
publics to maintain their public credit,
especially their forelga ,otJ>Bli4*ns.
which were menaced by the European
?trar. Thl? study wa? contributed by
Chester I.loyd Jone?, of the Univer
sity of Wisconsin, before section DC
Retrenchments In expenditure. In
creased taxation, and public loans
have enabled the rep?blica to pass the
financial crisis caused by the Euro,
pean war. said Mr. Jones, and business
In these countries is rapidly becoming
TONTI N CED 4>N PAGE TWO.
German SeaTrade
Gone, Says Report
Over 92 Per Cent of Exports
to America Stopped Since
the ^&ar Began.
?H-acial tibie ma The Wufcioftoa ? ?t? M.
London, Jan. 4.?A Parliamentary
-memorandum wad issued tonight
dealing with the "interception of sea
borne commerce ,of Germany." Re
ferring to German exports to Amer
ica, the report says:
"The latest returns available, namely
those of iieptember, show that over 9
per cent of the German exports to
America have been stopped." The re
port also slates that effective meas
ures have been taken to stop exports
on a small scale from Germany and
Austria to America by parcel post.
Summing up the results of the
blockade, the memorandum says:
"German exports to oversea coun
tries have been almost entirely stop
ped. The exceptions made are In
cases where refusal to allow the ex
ports of goods would hurt the neutral
concerned without inflicting Injury on
Germany.
"All shipments to neutral? adja
cent to Germany have been carefully
scrutinised with a view to the detec
tion of a concealed enemy destination.
Wherever there is reasonable ground
for suspecting the destination of
the goods they are placed In prix?
courts. Doubtful consignments are
detained pending satisfactory guaran
tees."
GERMAN THREAT TO GREECE.
DeiMBd? That 4.1.?. 44 I h -I r. ?. 1 r . m
Saleaikl, la u p. r?
Zurich. Ian. ?.?The (Mr-man newspaper
Voaaietch Zeitung repent? that Germany
haa demanded the Immediate withdrawal
of the alite? from Saloniki.
If Greece does not compel the An?lo
Ki-encfc fore?? to evacuate Greek ?oil the
war will be carried Into Greek Mace
donia.
A reply to th? German demand Is ex
pected this week.
2.422 W.r Factone. in England.
London. Jan. 4.?Uffl.-ia! announcement
waa made tonicht that 3M eeUblllshment?
had been added to the munition works
on trolled by the government. The total
-?unixr of the?? work? Is now 2.4S?.
ACCUSE TISZA AS ASSASSIN.
? ..uni ?nd Other ?.aefrlan? Charged
'With Inspirine: Kerdlnana's Marder.
Bncharest. Jan. 4.?Count Tunta and
c-rtaln other Austro-Hunaarlan offi
ciala were the real authors of the as
sassination of Grand Duke Ferdinand,
accordine; to the well-known Transyl
vaulan leader. M. Laicali. Documents
provine this are soon to be mad? pub
lic.
M. Locali'? statement is made in re
ply to the announcement by the Hun
garian newspaper Pester Uoyd that
proofs of the complicity of the Ser
bian government and Prime Alexander
in the crime which brought about the
war had been found among the prince's
papers captrred by the Hulgarians.
POPE FAVORS
PEACE PLANS
Cardinals Letter Says Pontiff
Believes Christians Should
Unite in Cause.
PEACE PLEA MADE BEFORE
LEADERS OF MANY FAITHS
Chicago Bishop Tells World Confer
ence United Church Could Have
Prevented War.
Special tu 111? Withingtoc Rendd.
Garden City, N. Y., Jan. 4.?More than
fifty church dignitaries of twenty de
nominations attending the World Con
ference of Faith and Order heard a
plea for universal peace tonight. A
letter from Cardinal Peter Gasparri,
pledging thu pope's support to the
movement, wan received with applause.
Itight Rev. C. P. Anderson, Bishop of
Chicago, who presided at the opening
s*'1?** s I on tonight, etirred his auditors by
reference to the European war.
"In the midst of the European con
flict," he said, "the world asks, 'has
Christianity failed." It is a fair ques
tion as to whether a united church
might not have preserved the peace of
the world.
"We look upon the church today and
instead of an Interior Indestructible and
united we find it externally rent an.i
toni asunder, largely disintegrated, and
Incapable of molding th? national con
science.
Isolation, separation, and disintegra
tion ar? dispelling the power of the
Chare* *ot ?7e.fi? ?Christ. A bewildered
world and a divided churrh ar? crying
"how long, Oh I^ord, how tong until peace
be established between nations and a
unity made amongst the churches?* "
Th? letter of Cardinal Gasparri read, in
part:
"Tour project of an International con
vention of all who believe in Jesus Christ
as God and Saviour to accomplish the
?needy fulfillment of the final prayer of
the Lord, that all may be one, I have,
in obedience to your request, submitted
to the most blessed father. I need not
here describe the affection with which I
saw the august pontiff kindled for you.
For you well know that the plans of
the Roman pontiffs, their cares and their
labors, have always been specially di
rected to the end that the sole and
uniche church which Jesus Christ or
dained and sanctified with His divine
blood should be most zealously guarded
and maintained, whole, pure and ever
abounding in love, and that it should
both let Its light shine and open wide
iu doors for all who rejoice in the name
or man and who desire to gain holi
ness upon earth and eternal happiness in
heaven."
According to Mr. Gardiner's report, a
deputation was about to confer with the
Pope and European churches Just prior
to the outbreak of the war. Corre
spondence has since, been continued, he
stated, and a wide and increasing inter
est aroused for a clearer recognition that
nothing but the visible unity of the
church, the body of Christ, will suffice
to establish hi? law of peace.
Workman Ablaze
Starts Big Fire
Half Million Loss When Oil
Soaked Clothing Catches
from Furnace.
special to The Waabinetraa Heraid.
Birmingham. Ala., Jan. 4.?While an
employe of the Texas OH Company
storage plant here was stoking the boiler
of the plant late this afternoon his oil
soaked clothing became ignited from a
back flash from the boilers and im
mediately the flames were communicated
to other parts of the plant, causing a
total loss of KW.OOO.
Several containers of lubricating oil
were released and within a few minutes
tire had spread all over the plant. Seven
huge containers of (asoline exploded and
this and lubricating oil ran Into a
creek, which biased for mil's
Adjacent to the property of the oil
company was .the American Cast Iron
Pipe Company, wtth buildings and
planta ?ralued at several millions. It Is
aaid that at several times this plant
was In danger, but it was saved.
The names communicated to a large
packing house, but were extinguished
No lives were lost, although two em
ployes of the oil company are seriously
Injured, one probably fatally.
? ? Ion .?aslnas Dank. ??1? I hrlalnia?
Savings Clab. Classes 5c, 50c, $1, and J2 i
?Adv.
CZERNOWITZ
WON BY RUSS
Austrians Reported to Have
Evacuated Capital of
Bukowina.
MANY PRISONERS ARE TAKEN
INCLUDING GERMAN OFFICERS
I Result of Battle. It Is Believed. Will
Have Material tfiect on Situa
tion in the Balkans.
Special 4'ahl? to Tha Wssfcinftoe Herald.
lxindim. Jan. 4.?The Austro-Uerman
| forces have evacuated 4*?ernowlt? the
?--?pita! of Bukowina, according to a
?Reuter Petrograd dispatch.
The report adds that a large number
of prisoners had been taken and that
these Include many German officers.
The Russian official reports up to
date, however, do not confirm the
evacuation of C?ernowiti although they
? do metkifl the rapture of a line of
trench*-? northwest of the city.
G4??-. ? on Balkan ?????? i??? Ik ??
It Is around the Bukowtnlan ?trong
hold that the great fighting of the South
ern Gallcian campaign has been w??r?l
ever elnce the new Russian drive began.
If the reported capture of Csernowiti he
true. It means that Gen. Ivanoff has
won a battle that will materially affect
the Balkan-Greece campaign. The fight
ing along the GaJician-Beaaarabian Une
Is being conducted In bitter cold weather
and amidst the snow-filled valley? of the
mountains east of the River Pruth.
Notwithstanding this climatic stress
and the large forces opposing them every
where In the Strypa and Volhynian
districts of Russia and In Kast Galicia,
the Russlana are on the offensive.
Rnsa niTlrlal ?tatemen?.
The official statement from the Russian
general headquarters. Issued day, reads
. as follow?:
"In the region of 4'zartorysk the Teutons
w e driTem from the sheltering woods
In the region of the middle Strypa our
troops, having croesed tha line of w'-e
entanglements, occupied the Teuton
trenches and took by storm ? fortified
work.
Vienna (via Berlin wireless). Jan. 4.?
Russian forces in East Galicia have suf
fered appalling losaes. th.? Austrian war
offl' ? announced today. Terrific hand-to
han?! fighting continues, with the Rus
sians attempting to break through the
Auftrtan linea and being repulaed.
British Cabinet
Is Facing Crisis
Conscription Bill May Be
Rock to Split Asquith
Government.
tty W. ORTON TEinnX.
Special CnMe to The Washington Herald.
London, Jan. 4. ? Bporh - making
speeches will be made tomorrow by
Premier Asquith and Lord Kitchener to
the commons and the lord'?, respec
tively. The cabinet position, as a re
sult of today's sitting. Is critical. Sir
| John Simon, home secretary, has re- I
signed and others threaten to follow |
his example.
The details of the compulsory serv
ice bill, which the premier will Intro
duce tomorrow have been settled. The
principles of the bill remain as de
scribed In previous mestuges. It is un
derstood that no penalties are pre
scribed, as when unattcste4l single men
are called Into the army they will j
thereby be subject to military law.
Neither Chancellor McKenna nor
Walter Runlciman has yet followed
Sir John Simons' lead, for the points
of policy which they have raised as to
the elzc ot the army and the demands
of the trade unionists have not been
settled by the cabinet. There lias been
another postponement and the cabinet
has not been summoned for tomorrow.
Friends of these two ministers an
ticipate that either or both may resign
toward the end of the week. If thie |
happens, it la possible that other resig
nations may follow, and ther? will
then be a serious cabinet crisi.?. There
?? other possibilities equally serious
and the political situation is threaten
in?;.
In the house of commons the liberal
group, opposed to conscription, have an
nounced their Intention of dividing
againat the initial stage of the bill or
against cl?ture If it is proposed. It la
not believed the speaker will grant
cl?ture In such circumstances. Thl?
means at least two days' debate on the
first reading of the bill.
Jewish Fund Passes Million Mark.
New York, Jan. 4.?The American ?
Jewish relief committee announced to
day that its fund for the relief of Jew
ish war sufferers In Kurope had passed I
the million dollar mark. The actual I
figures given out were I1.00T.S33.67. There |
Is not the slightest doubt now. It is said, !
that the fund will go well beyond the
two million mark before the end of
January. It is believed thai at least
tJUO.OOO will be raised at the big muss |
meeting to be held in Chicago.
Prince of Wales Pension Chairman.
London. Jan. 4.?The Prince of Wales
has been named chairman of the com
mittee on war pension.?. This announce
ment was made in the house of c->m
I mons today
Kaiser Doomed to Be Dumb
For Life, Paris Matin Hears
Speech Gone Now and He Will Be Stifled Unless Larynx Is j
Removed?Can Never Speak Again if It Is?Blood
Poisoning Aggravates Grave Condition.
Spremi Cable to The <.V.*l,ieru?i Harald.
fari?, Jan. 4.?The Matin say?: "The
Kaiser? operation la admitted by Herman
newspapers to have consisted of a par
tial ablation of cancerous tissues of the
larynx. The Emperor Is now totally un
: able to ?peak. If he doe? not consent to
complete removal of the diseased portions
'of the larynx he will bo stifled within a
? few weeks.
"If h? does consent, he will be dumb for
the remainder of his life.
"When the Kaiser was gravely ill in
1911, ho offered a famous French surgeon
?J'.OOO to supply him with an artificial
palate enabling him to sprak if the larynx
wore cut out. The Frenchman had pre
viously auccessfulty performed a similar
<>l>eration on another patient. At the
last moment the ?Emperor refused to take
the risk."
Amsterdam. Jan. f-Kmperor William is
Buffering from blood poisoning and his
condition tu daily becoming wor-**e, ac- j
cording to reports thst have reached here
from Germany. These state that the
Kaiser hts l>een o| ?era ted upon twice
without any improvement being noted
and thst Crown Prince Frederick William
will be temi?orarily entrusted with the
imperial power unless his father's cond?
tion changes In the near future.
The Kaiser had planned to leave for
Constantinople on January It, it in said,
but 1 hi? plan was abandoned by order
of his physicians who permit only Im
perial chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg
to via it the Kmperor.
Citizens Will Carry Fight to
Save School Board to Congress
?;-?
Columbia Heights' Association Will Appoint Committee to
Oppose Commissioners Plan ? Indorse Campaign
of Retail Merchants Against "Fake" Ads.
The wave of criticism against the
?plan of the Commissioners for reor
ganization of the District school sys
tem spread further last night, when
the Columbia Heights Cltlxen?' Asso
ciation recorded Its disapproval of the
recommendation. A committee of five
will be appointed to oppose the plan
before both houses of Congres?.
The resolution disapproving the
Commissioners' plan, introduced by A.
l.eftwich Sinclair, wa.? adopted unani
mously after the achool committee
had recommended that action b? de
ferred until the Commissioner? make
public their side of the case through
H'omtnlsstoner Newmsn at a meeting of
the Federation of Citisene' Associa
tions on Saturday night.
Mr Sinclair offered In support of his
resolution ?n editorial Id Tbe Wash
ington Herald two week? ago, which.'
he said, was a strong argument
against the r?comr.iendation of tLe
Commissioners.
The campaign of the Retail Mer
chants' Association against false ad
vertising was Indorsed by the associa
tion, and President William R. Harr
and Secretary J. Clinton Hiatt desig
nated to represent the organization on
the "ad vigilance committee." Mr.
Harr lauded the movement as one
worthy of the co-operation of the citi
zens of the District.
SHIP AT MERCY OF THE SEA.
Thessalonlkl's ??Ivate (rese ????t
?? Iah to Abandon Her to Wares.
Spedai to The. Washington Herald.
New York, Jan. 4?Capt. Calandria ha?
given up hope of bringing the ?teamer
Thessaloniki to port. During yesterday?
gale hawsers by which she was being
towed by the Patria parted and left her
floundering 2G? miles away In a heavy
sea.
Early today she flashed SOS signals,
which were answered by the I'nited
States, of the Scandinavian-American
Line, bound to Copenhagen. At 3 p. m.
Capt. Gotache, of the i'nited States, sent
the following radia to his agents:
"Our noon position latitude 39 35, longi
tude 69.14 west. 43 miles from Thesaa
lonikl. which has captain and 90 of the
ciew left on boai-d. Want to abandon
ship. Passengers and balance of crew
on Patrie."
ALLIES THREATEN BLOCKADE.
Drinnnii I pon Greffe to Rel?.-!?.??
Allearti Robben of Mull?.
Berlin ivla wireless). Jan. 4.?The al
lies have threatened to blockade the
Island of Mitylene unless Greece re- ;
leases two allied agents who robbed
Greek malls bound for Athens and were
arrested, according to Athens dis- ?
patches given out today by the Trans- |
Ocean News Bureau.
The Greek people are reported to be.
greatly excited over the refusal of Gen. j
Sarrall to release the consuls of the,
central empires seized at Saloniki.
An Italian newspaper reports that ?
the American consul at Saloniki, toi
whom the Teutonic consuls assigned,
their business when they were seized, |
has requested Anglo-French troops to!
evacuate the Teutonic consulate. The
request, It Is said, was refused?
Demands Facts from Wilson.
A resolution was offered by Repr?
sentative Bennet, of New York? calling
upon President WBmm to furnl?<*h the
House with Information relative to the
"foreign conspiracies" that he men
tioned in his address to Congress on
December 7.
Huerta Reported Near Death.
Kl Paso, Texas., Jan. 4.?Gen. Huerta ts,
in a precarious condition, following an
other operation this morning. ? priest'
was summoned and the sacrament of ex-:
trem? unction was administered to the'
former Mexican president.
I ? Ion Having? Bank, 1019 ? briet m?? '
Savings Club. Classe* 5c, 50c, $1, and $2.
?Adv.
After Frederick A. Fermine, of th?
?Monday Kvenlnr Club, had delivered an
address on the ne?vi for an Institution for
feebleminded in the District, the associa
tion adopted a resolution indorsing the
plan of the Monday Kvenlng Club and
other civic organisations of the city for
such an institution.
Mr. FennliiR said thit there are 79R per
sone In the District who should be ?In
such sn Institution Mr. Penning out
lined a bill which will be Introduced tn
Congress provid'ng for the establishment
of such an institution.
Charles P. Bundy, In reporting on the
recent hearings before the Joint Feleet
Committee of < V-m^ress <?n the fiscal af
fair? of the District, predicted that the
report of the Joint committee will vindi
cate the residents of the District of the
s.ani!*rm*s charges of tax-dodging and
other things that have been cast upon
thern in recent years."
Charles c. Lancaster made another ef
fort to have the association Join the Fed
eration of Citizens' Associations, hut his
resolution to that effect did not receive a
second.
The association went on record ?n favor
of an increase In the pay cf the public
school Janitors. A rosolution of Charles
S. Bundy. calling upon Cong.ess to go
shead with the p.-oject of Joining Rock
Creek and Potomac parks, wae adopted.
GIRL m IOWA IS HOPEFUL
McNeely'? Fiancee (annoi Relieve!
lie vrent Down With the Persist?, j
- - al to ?)? Wuhlo-ftne HermJd.
West Liberty. Ia.. Jan. 4.?Mlaa Wilma
Whitacre, of this town, flam ee of
Rot>ert N. McNelly, l\ S. consul to I
Aden, believed lost on the liner Persia,
is still hopeful that he may have escaped
death.
They were to he married next June.
The wedding of the North Carolina
collegian and the pretty Iowa girl was
to have taken place this winter, but!
McNeely'? consular appointment came
sooner than they expected and it was ^
decided to postpone the event till he ?
could become established at his post.
HOUSE RAIDED BT POLICE
*ll, ree Mea as? Pear Women Ar
rested by Vlee ftqarad.
Polle? of the Firth precinct last
nicht raided the house at 101 E street
southeast, arrestine; three men and
four women. Allanttl Uraul. M year?
old. wa? charted with keeping* ? dis
orderly houie. The other women and
the men ara beine held for Investiga
tion.
The raiding ?quad was led by Capt
Mulliall, of the Fifth precinct, and
Lieut. Brrmmerman, with Detective*
Howe?, Simpson, and Cole, of the "vice
?quad" and half a dosen other police
men.
HIT BY AUTO,
BOY ROBBED
Skates Stolen from Feet of
Unconscious Lad with
Bioken Leg.
YOUTH LIES AN HOUR IN COMA
AFTER BEING STRUCK BY CAR
Donald King. 15, at Emergency Hos
pital with Concussion of Brain
Following Accident.
Tossed aside by a speeding automo
bile, with hi? left leg broken, end rob
bed of his roller skate? as he lay un
conscious, Donald Ktng. IS. lay In the
gutter at Twenty-seventh and Q street?
northweet more than an hour laat
night before being discovered. He waa
recovering from h'a coma when picked
up, but at a late hour last night had
been unable to give an oecount of the
accident.
The youth, who lives at :51? Four
teenth street northweat. I? the ?on of
the late William A. King, former chief
of the division of statistics. Bureau of
Census. Donald left his home about
7 o'clock laat night for the Center Mar
ket skating rink. He Intended to skate
through the streets to the rink. Almost
an hour and a twit later hla family
were notified of hla accident, though he
had lain in the street less then two
blocks from hla home during roost of
the time.
It wa? about 8 o'clock when Walter
Johnaon, colored, 2*?lv Q street, going
to a near-by store, saw a figure
huddled againet the curbglon*a a bl??ck
are-st mt the W .street bridge, f? i-reard
?-r.-anrv and running up. found ?tte boy
The youth waa In a dnzed conditi!.?
and was rallying from his jnconaclou?
ness when Johnson picked him up. His
.skate? had been unstrapped from hi?
feet and stolen.
TaJte-ta to lloepllal.
Johnson hailed an automobil? driven
by C. W. Hoover, manager of the Union
i'.ara?-e. who. In turn, stopped Park Po
lireman F. E. Winters, and the Injured
lad waa taken to Emergency Hospital
An examination showed hi? left leg was
broken. HI? body waa badly bruised,
and his scalp injured, and he bas con
cussion of the brain. Physicians, how
ever, do not believe his condition is se
rious.
The boy bled profuaely, but the hemor
rhages had stopped when be waa found.
The fact that the blood had dried on
his clothing wa? pointed to aa evidence
of the length^of time.he had been Ignor
ed. The locality where he wa? ?truck
is dark, and while the street ia a popu
lar automobile route, but few pedestrians
i?as8 the spot.
The boy's family declared last night
they Intend to push the Investigation of
the caae to the utmost. They charge
speed laws along Q street and especially
over the bridge are violated and that ln
suflh-lent attention Is given thr speeder?
by police.
?'O?: .??* ? ?? 1?7? PHONKS, MAI*'
?. F. FOX COMPANY
(?BDHI ?.D K. FOX I
REAL ESTATE
SALES INVESTMENTS- LOANS- APPRAISALS RENTS
??????'? lll.llll BUILDING, 1.3-1-1 "?" K. s*.
WASHINGTON, D. C.
Jan. 3. 1916.
The Washington Herald,
Gentlemen: ?
Your idea for a Sunday morning
newspaper is in my opinion a good one.
Give us the news without the waste
paper of which the average Sunday paper
is so largely composed.
You will please add this day to my
present subscription the Sunday issue, to
be delivered at my home, 1709 S St. N. W.
Wishing you every success, most
truly yours,
(Signed) A. F. FOX.
U. S. IS GOING SLOW
BUT IS PRETTY SURE
WHO SANK THE PERSIA
President \^ llson Awaiting More Detailed
Information Before Acting and Also He
Counsels Congress to Be Patient
"ARMED VESSEL" IS NO EXCUSE
Any Attempt to Defend Liner ?? De?.truct.oi or A?? lhai
She Carried Guns Will Not Be Accepted b> X ?=. ?nin-g- _..
ton. It li? Officiallv Intimated
The Washington administration will await full fact?? before actw?g
in the Persia case and will not be rushed into hasty or fll-?*??ri?,ed ac
tion.
This decision was made plain at the White House ytfterthjr. It
was pointed out that the following must be established to form ? ban?,
for official action :
1?The fact that the Persia was torpedoed.
2?The identity of the submarine.
3?The circumstances of the attack.
The administration first awaits a report from Ambassador Penfield
on his request for information from the Austrian government as to it?
knowledge of the sinking of the Persia causing the death of Robert N.
McNeely, the newly-appointed American consul at Aden Sworn Af
fidavits from Persia survivors is also desired as an aid in framing the
administration"* course.
Errat? Ma-re ?wlftly. *
Event? moved ?wtftly in the critical
submarine ioaue after the return of
President Wilson to Waahlngton yaa
terday Within an hour after hia re
tum the President had a long telephonic
conver?atlon with Secretary La-uistng aad ,
waa given all the fact? In tike Persia j
caae. Almost Immediate!?, a forrnriaJ
t-tatement was lasued by Sex-retary Tu
multy at the President s dlrectio-?. T*h?en
th? President ?sent for (Senator William
F. Steme and Repreaentative Floe*,
chairmen. ?-e?pe4*tlvely, of the Senate and
Houae Foreign Relations committee*,
to counsel ?gainst Intemperate action In
''ongresa ahile the negotiation? are ia
procrea?.
Tlie formal statemenl iaft-sed from the
??*? h?W ilrrjar read:
The President aad the Secreta-y of
State are taking every meaos pu?Wiii?
to obtain full fart? in thl? grave -matter,
and will act Jua-t au ???? aa the taforma
tion la -?-??-'
It was made plain later In the day
that the purpoee in iaaving thia Mate
rnent ?u not to call attention to the
gravity of the (Situation, but to emphasise
the necessity of obtaining all fact? be
fore taking action
Secretary Laineing gave the ofHrdal
?-onetructlon placed on the word "grav
ity" when he aaid the "altuation ?ras
gra*>e in it? poaalbllttlea," ?nd not be
cause of any actual information In the
hand? of the government.
Far?? fttaadlog Oa?.
Theae fact? atood out at tbe clooe of
a day that wa? marked by ? crystallisa
tion of opinion on the main questions
Involved:
First?The administration is morally
certain that the Persia was sunk by an
Austrian submarine, but desires legal
proof.
Second?If legal proof ',? established.
either by Austria s admission or by
aworn statements of Persia ?ur\ Ivors,
tlie United States will demand prompt
disavowal and reparation, and aaaur*
ance? that Austria will take every pre
caution to warn all submarine com
manders that no more liners must be
torpedoed without warning and without
?ecuring th? ?afety at ???a?na. ? ?ad
crear.
Third?Ar? atterri??!??) de rea ?e br
Austria on th? groe??*? that th? Pe.
?la waa armed will mot be accepted br
the l'alted Matas? aa ?aaatlfseation for
th? ?Mark or a? acquitting Austria of
reepotaaiblltty.
Th? direct intimation that Austria, tt
It accepts responsibility (or the sub
marine attack, will stronrlr arg* la
defena? that th* Persia lost immunity
through carrying arm?, wa? made in
Teutonic diplomati?' circi?-? yesterday.
The point ?aaa made that each not? ?sf
th? I'nited Stale? an the ?ubjeet ot amm
?aarlava wartar? ?tatr? In a aaaasl aasa?
clase seaarneT uaai aie? ?at r cheat ?a?
eel?." It wa**' further as mm** tha? ?ase
Herala Incident new ?alata.' h a?a a?
th? admission that the atntlah raaaal
carried a LI awn aha ?t? that It ?ra?
as-xned.
> r.. ,,. Atesae aa DastaJ WHfc.
Announcement hy ?secretary Isenelng ,
tl at no communication will be ad
diseased to Germany or Auatria at pre?
?nt su considered algwincajtt o? th?
lidmintatr-atlon's feeling that tt bsm
Austria alona ta ieal with ta Uta
Parata ca??
For that reaaon the report fi-otn Aaa
baaaador Penneld in reaponae to hla
representation? to '.ha Vienna goeerw
ment are awaited with th? ?-re? ? e at
anxiety, a? officiala aay upon Auatrla'a
attitude rent? tbe question of th? ara??
possibilities seen by ?Secretary Uniml.
The tact that Baron Zwledinah haa
glilnc aasurances that Austria ?nil
gi?e full satisfaction if it? responsi
bility ia shown tended to reduce tb?
tension.
After he ?eft the Whit? Houae Reere
?entaUse Flood ??Id that aa aoon as pee
?Ible all of the evvdenr? tn tbe cases of Usa
?Inking of the British liner Persia with
?-'onaul Robert N. McNeely oa basara.
would be laid before the Foreign Affaira
? omniittee or th? Houae and the For???-?
Relation? Committee of the ?Senat? Mean,
time the President Ivas avaased that na
speeches be made or resolution? intro
duced tn Congress? which might embar
rase tb? aOminla' tlon in Ita foreign re
la tlor ?a.
?ALL THE NEWS and
More Special Features
EVERY MORNING
At Less Than Half the Cost
SUBSCRIBE NOW TO
Daily . . 1 Cent
Sur. Jay, 1 Cent
DAILY AND SUNDAY
BY CARRIER. 30C A MONTH.
_*
SEI? IN YOUR ORDER BELOW.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
