7' s
'"-" ifp?-"' (r
"t"Tir'"w n vm-ii
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
ctmraui
'J
vox. n-NO. 07
PIIIIiADELPIIlA, WEDNESDAY, JANUAKY 5, 1910.
Corimant,w101B, t is Pcsua Lttxin Co unta.
PJRIOE ONE CENT
?Bf!l?
A
ASQUITH PUTS
DRAFT BEFORE
PARLIAMENT
Gommons Crowded When
premier Introduces Bill
for Modified Con
scription IRELAND EXEMPTED
Need of Complete Compulsion
Not Yet Demonstrated.
Cabinet Crisis
Terms of British
Conscription Bill
Ireland is excluded from pro
visions of the act.
The bill calls for the compulsory
enlistment of all single men be
tween the ages of 18 and 41 who
aro eligible for military service.
.. It also provides for the enlist
ment of widowers without depend-
"Tho bill exempts from service all
bachelors and widowers engaged in
"indispensable, special occupa
tions, like manufacture of war
munitions and railway duties; thoso
supporting relatives and those vho
have conscientious scruples, as tno
Quakers.
t.nMnov. .Tnn. G.
Trcmlcr Asqulth this afternoon Intro
duced In Commons tlio Government's bill
for conscription
Ireland Is excluded from tlio provisions
of the bill. Premier ARMulth announced.
The Government took this step to avoid
opposition from tlio Irish party lenders.
The mcasuro li bused upon tho samo
lines as the Derby recruiting scheme nnd
applies to tho samo area that Is Englana,
Wales nnd Scotland.
In offering the bill tho I'rlmo Minister
declared thnt the Government does not
plan to draft Into service nt this time nil
men' of mllltnry ngc.
"Tho results of tho Derby recruiting
campaign show that tho cnBo for general
compulsion has not yet boen proved," ho
said. , ,
The announcement was regarded ns nn
admission that tho Cabinet had reached
a tompromlso on tho conscription ques
tion, ny rejecting tho suggestion of
Lloyd-George and other strong conscrip
tion advocates for a measure of far
reaching effect. It Is understood Asqulth
prevontcd other resignations from tho
Ministry.
jlJ..t h,aa -11 thn nvnADtnilnna nt unmft
U.U HUk J ICC. Ill IU .rtA.WMl.v.w w w...
.,.,... 1 .. ..null. vnai m nntiin 1 In ( In
DCCmn."U IH li:.ui ihwjw im.uioiMB ...
certain aspects,
"derby rill n6t failure.
"Tho figures are wonderful," ho said.
"Nearly 3,000,000 men have slgnllled their
willingness to servo their country. It
should convince tho Allies and their
enemies that the people of Great .Britain
h&vo their heart In tho war nnd ore
prepared to meet any call."
"The present bllt Is a redemption of
my pledge to Lord Dt,rby," said tho Pre
mier, In commenting upon the Derby
report, mndo public yesterday, tho Pre
mier continued:
"A.ftcr deducting -100,000 men rejected
as unfit from tho figures In the report,
tha total la still In excess of 2.500,000 men
of all classes. The, total 'unstarred' sin
tie men, l,EnX,000, Is still subject to largo
deductions."
This Is the first time slnco tho days of
feudalism that conscription has been nec
essary In England. Tho ballot act of 1K9
provided that all males qualltled for mili
tary service should-, bo called upon to
re In the militia, tut It has been kept
from actual enforcement by nn annual
army act passed for that purpose.
The Introduction of tin conscription bill
Continued on 1'aee Four, Column One
Wants Probe of Freight Embargo
WASHINGTON", Jnn. B. Senator
Walsh, of Montana, today Introduced a
resolution In tho Benato calling for a
complete Investigation of the freight em
bargo on trunk lines leading into New
York city, alleged excessive ocean freight
rates and discriminations against certain
Uppers.
THE WEATHER
W solemnly resolved a few days ngo
to say nothing about the weather In this
box until it could be uomethlng that
would not cost us our Job. It was the
only onewe made, but we fear It Is not
going to last much longer. We were on
tha point of letting It go hang this
morning, but were forced to postpone
" the breaking of relations with qur bet
ter celt on account of the limitations of
our typewriter. All we could find on
the keybord of the machine was: "
-&'():M;,39 ix 4 & T;
l!)J"&S7J ". That does not express
It at all and we might as well lose our
lob right when we do. However, some
body or oth,er announces that at pres
ent Mars Is having Its spring season,
which seems almost too much.
The boys In the trenches tell you its
probably true since the Mars they know
l having his annual cold.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Un
"tiled tonight with probably rain;
Thursday snow flurries and much
colder; increaaiiig westerly winds,
LOST AND I"OUND
B
SnuarTr fiYwMiurM
tJir04?- loV diamond ring-, will Haiti
ffi".'?"0". !' Saturday ,venln.
Hi IB?" Jh "ur of 8 and 8 o'clock" In tha
Jwhborhoot of Market at . 16th taiith S!
tZaV.PllmSo;Lnd MPPblro oval plo. be-
SnfeoJ'.t0 alld Cbetnut and 3d and taxi-
Chif0, ,V Lfdr Central. BrSid and
.. irt"a7Utl Ubd reward) do dueittoSa
li,JATt!IrIV. Dce'nt)rSor7SSn
Kin.?'? .aHK- ta,.a b Tiffany, tond&i'
!" A. r. W en Lack. Raward of it's
&&?$.' wr "" gSHa?iiff
iVHf8?'13 AND, -Alva IIANDBAO
afJ-C SS 8trday evening, Utwen B2J iwi
-Jga t.j naintiea Ledjar Omca.
.jrn eavlatyKi So? ICO) Walnut at; .
HUGE DEFICIT
HALTS MAYOR
IN, LOAN PLANS
City Heads, in Conference,
Forced to Pause Over
Financial Status
$1,600,000 IN ARREARS
Proposed Flotation of $95,000,-
000 Will Be Cut to Less
Than Half
Mayor Smith today conferred with other
city oftlcinls In regnrd to a city loan for
permanent Improvements. After the
meeting he announced that no loan bill
would bo Introduced In Councils this
week.
"I Intend to mnkc haste slowly In this
mnttcr," ho said. "It Is not poislblo to
say now when tho bill will bo Introduced.
Hut I did lenrn In the conference thnt the
city would by September bo J1.60O.O0O be
hind, over and nbovo tho $1,200,000 tem
porary loan."
This lonn must bo paid back In tho
first four months of this administration.
Neither the Mayor nor other ofllclalt nt
tho conference, Controller Walton. City
Solicitor Connelly, Chief Clerk Fclton, of
Common Council, Directors Dntesman nnd
Webster nnd Chairman Gaffnoy, of tho
Tlnnnco Committee, mado any effort to
conceal tho fact that they were consider
ably perturbed about tho financial sit
uation. BIG CUT IN PLANS.
It was reported about City Hall that
tho lonn, which originally was to be
JOS.OOO.OOO In tho moasuro which was with
drawn from Councils In tho closing days
of tho last administration, probably would
bo less than one-half that sum nnd per
haps still less.
Tho Slayor said lie had not determined
on tho slzo of tho amount to bo borrowed
with tho consont of tho peoplo nt a special
election. Ho could glvo no Indication nt
this time of what sum It would bo prac
ticable to borrow.
LOANS CAUSE PAUSE.
Tho question of loans Is Intimately re
lated to the question of tho city's current
revenue, ns sinking fund nnd Interest
charges opcrato against this revenue. It
Is for this reason that tho official! bcllovo
they muit go slow about tho business of
tying the city to a program which might
entail difficulties In meeting responslvlll
tlcs of repayment and Interest In tho
future. Tlio' transit and port loans nro
on 50-ycar bonds, and their Interest
charges can be taken from tho principal
whllo tho Improvements aro under way.
Dut all the other loans become extra
charges.
TO CONSIDER POIIT NEED3
In his Inaugural address the Mayor
snoko of nn Increased assessment or tax
.ratecj-nUo.TiSra. posslblUJrsrtho-cJty- could.
not nave "ootii me penny ana tno cbko.
It was understood that nt tlio conference
today tho question whothcr elthcrof these
measures would have to be adopted was
considered, j
Tomorrow afternoon tho Mayor will tako
nn nuto tour with Director Wobrfter, of
the, Department of Wharves, Docks nnd
Ferries, along tho water front to seo
for himself tho needs of tT6 port.
SENATE PAVES WAY FOR
GASOLINE INVESTIGATION
Resolution Adopted Authorizes Report
on Oil Production
WASHINGTON, Jnn. E. Thfl Senate to
day adopted a resolution Instructing Sec
retary of Interior I.nno to report on oil
and gasollno production.
Senator McCumber, North Dakotn, the
author, said that, notwithstanding the
fact that oil production in 1915 ivai gi eater
than In 1111. prices had practically
doubled.
Senator Walsh, of Montana, suggested
that the Investigation show what fields
are undeveloped because of failure to
have broad enough public land laws.
Philippines Dill in Senate
WASHINGTON, Jan. 5. The Philip,
pines bill occupied the foreground In tha
Senate today. Senator Hitchcock, of Ne
braska, chairman of the Philippines Com
mittee, moved that the bill be made the
"unfinished business," and hereafter It
will be a dally subject of debate until It
is cleared from the calendar.
HUNTS FOR LOST WIFE
SO HE CAN WED AGAIN
Unless She Replies to "Ad,"
August Schreiner, Jr Plans
Second Marriage
MRS. AUGUST SCimEINEP. .(SEE MAY
Tyler). Please communlcatd with mo at trie
adareii below Immediately upon seeing this
notice. a I Intend to bo marrlcl a aecond
tlroo on thft auumptlon that my nrat wife Is
no longer iHlnn. AUO SCHftEINEIt, Jr..
"art i of MorVli. U N. Tin St., I'hIUdeiphla.
renn. .
August Schreiner, Jr.. has placed this
advertisement In various eastern news
papers for more than a week In an at
tempt to And his wife May, whom he has
not seen or heard from for more than 15
years.
Schreiner Is desirous of marrying again,
and should his wife fall to respond, he
will go to court to ask permission to
marry the second time, on the assump
tion that his first wife Is dead. If the
woman does get into communication
with him, Schreiner will seek to have an
understanding with her, and to arrange
for a divorce, according to ills Bister.
Schreiner, who Is a mechanic and who
!. Iia at fhA TTntitl Anaonla.
In New Vork, married May Tyler about
15 years ago, according to Mrs. Addle
Morris, of H North 7th street, who Is a
sister. A few months after the marrlnge
a -violent quarrel ensued following charges
made by ccnreiner nguiiui inn wuc ii
husband went to court, according to Mrs.
Morris, and sought to get a divorce, but
he was unable to do so because of tha
lack of money.
He obtained a separation, however, and
left his wife then. There were no. chil
dren. Schreiner Uas naycr seen his wife
since. Some time agy. according to
Bchxelner'B sister, he fell In love with
another woman, and Immediately started
a search for his wife In order to pbtaln a
divorce or some, port of a settlement.
Tho searcn led all over (he East, and
was thought to bo at an encj when
Schreiner thoujht he. had located, the
woaias la Arlington, N J.
SMITH TO DECIDE
TRANSIT DETAILS
AS THEY COME UP
Subway and Frankford 'L'
Most Important Now.
Others to Wait
"FOR JUSTICE TO ALL"
City and Transit Heads May
Confer New Director
Chosen
Justice to Both P. It. T.
and City, Mayor's Plan
Mayor Smith on tho transit situ
ation Enid:
"I ahnll nnnounco my selection of
tho Transit Director within tho
next few tlnys ho will
bo a worthy successor to Director
Taylor."
"This Administration is an ad
ministration for the people of Phil
adelphia, and it is my intention to
represent you honestly, fearlessly
nnd with integrity when tho timo
comes to meet with tho P. R. T.
Co."
"It is also my duty to do justice
by that company, and when the
hour arrives I intend to see thnt
justlco is done by both."
"Work should be pushed ns rapid
ly as practicable upon tho Broad
street subway nnd tho Frankford
elevated."
Mayor Smith today said ho was con
sidering transportation problems with
reference to "tho general transit plan,"
but thnt his attention was more par
ticularly devoted nt this time to tho
necessity for pushing ns rapidly as pos
slblo work on the Ilrorul street subway
and tho Frankford elevated. Ho would
neither nfflrm nor deny rumor that ho
Intended to omit tho Darby elevated nnd
tho Northeast elevated from tho Admin
istration's trnnslt plan.
Tho Mayor said ho hnd hnd conferences
with former Director Taylor, of tho
Transit Department, nnd that these con
ferences had mado It clenr to him that
transit was "an Immense undertaking,"
tho details of which had to bo taken up
and considered carefully and attended
to In turn. The Urand street subway
nnd tho Frankford elevated wcro tho
only details that could bo taken up at
this time, and tho other features of tho
general plan must bo considered later,
tho Mayor said.
TO CONFER WITH P. R. T. MEN.
Aconferencq. between representatives
'o'f tho city and" of "tho" Philadelphia Itaptd
Trnnslt Company to work out n co
operatlvo agreoment for tho operation of
the city-built high speed lines now under
construction, and those to bo constructed
under the proposed loan, nnd to devise
somo scheme for substituting universal
B-cent fares for tho present S-ccnt ex
change tickets Is expected In tho near
future, following the meeting hold last
night by the Transportation Committee
of the United Business Men's Association
at tho Hotel Adelphla.
Mayor Smith and Thomas n Mitten,
president of the Transit Company, at
tended the meeting. Both spoke, but
neither made dcflnlto statements In re
lation to tho solution of the trnnslt sit
uation. The Mayor, nowover. In plain
terms pledged fairness to both the city
and the Transit Company, and Mr. Mit
ten expressed tho willingness of tho com
pany to co-operate with tho city offi
cials to Improvo Philadelphia's trnnslt
facilities.
TRANSIT DIRECTOR CHOSEN.
The Mayor indicated that to some dc
greo his unwillingness to mnko deflnlto
statements upon the transit situation was
because he had not yet nnnounced the
successor to Transit Director A. Mcrrltt
Taylor, who resigned on Monday. The
man has been chosen, Mr. Smith said,
and will be named within n few days.
Immediately before Mayor Smith spoke
a resolution was adopted, calling upon
Councils at tho meeting tomorrow to take
the necessary steps toward effecting uni
versal live-cent fares, and to arrango
for a conference between the proper rep
resentatives of the city and the transit
Continued nn raze Nine, Column One
CLASH IN PENNSYLVANIA'S
DELEGATION IN THE HOUSE
By a Vote of 15 to 13 Caucus Postpones Election of Mem
ber of Congressional Committee After
Factional Debate
By a Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON. Jan. 6.-After one of
the most bitter discussions In which fac
tional politics was Injected freely and the
followers of Penrose and Varo fought
for supremacy, tho Pennsylvania Repub
lican Congressmen voted to postpone the
election of a. member of the Republican
Congressional Committee until next Wed
nesday. The vote was 15 In favor of post
ponement to 13 against.
This decision was not reached until after
an hour of acrimonious debate In which
it was brought out that this fight, of
Itself, unimportant, presages a conflict
for control of Republican politics In Penn
sylvania. It became evident at the beginning of
the meeting, what has existed all along
under the surface, that tho Republican
party la faction-torn and that Vare means
to obtain control If possible through the
aid of Governor Brumbaugh and Mayor
Smith.
The vote for postponement was:
Vara Butler Miller
Graham Urleat Portar
KJmonJl KUaa Jlorln
Coatello Kteater Scott
IXirrow liopwood Lalean.
TuUl. 15.
AGAINST.
Moor Focht BarcMtld
Wataon Bealea Craao
Farr Ho Unil Garland.
Hcaton North ,
UcKadden Qoleman
Total. 13.
PREVIOUS tO THE) VOTE
Representative Coleman, a Penrose
follower, offered a substitute to Oraham's
resolution b moving that the election be
postponed until 4 o'clock today This
waa lost by a vote of li to 3. The motion
of Representative Watson, of Langhorne.
to appolpt a committee to Induce, the
candidates to withdraw was also defeated.
The apparent realisation of the fact
that an election today would result in
WAR WILL BE LONG, ALLIES "
WILL TRIUMPH, NORTHCLIFFE
PREDICTS; PERIL AWAITS U.S.
LORD NORTHCLIFFE
TEUTONS READY
TO MEET GREAT
DRIVMN SPRING
Await Concerted Offensive
by Enemy, but Confi
dent of Defeating It
NO SIGNS OP PEACE
By CARL W. ACKERMAN
BUDAPEST. Jan. B.
A great offenstvo movement by tho
Allies on all fronts Is expected by Hun
garian officials this spring. They nro
certain It will meet with defeat.
"Tho Allies fall to take Into account our
mllltnry positions," Count Julius An
drassy, Hungarian parliamentary leader,
declared. "Vo aro so situated now that
wo can help eaclr otlier, J We can send
men and resources to any front at any'
time. We- can concentrnte-rSomethluB the
enemy cannot do. This, I bellero makes
our victory certain because It over
balares the resources of. our opponents.
The situation cannot bo changed by an
Entente offensive this spring."
Contrary to the general opinion In Ber
lin, Hungarian officials bcllevo there will
bo no early peace.
"I think this Is going to be a long,
long war," said Count Andrnssy. "There
Is at present no chnnca of peace In
sight. We could muko penco next week,
but the Allies do not destro It: they
nre not yet convinced of our superiority.
Bui tho uholo world Is becoming hyster
ical. Kvcn neutral Powers nro losing
patience. It's a shame far humanity that
wo can't make pence now."
Count AndrasBy expressed admiration
for the manner In which King Constan
tino of Greece has dealt with diplomats
on both sides, nnd spoko of the possi
bilities of an invasion or Egypt.
"I admire the way the King of Greece
Is handling the sltiintlon." he said. "He
is clever and playing politics neither for
us nor for the Allies, but for Greece He
will keop Greece neutrnl nnd save her
from tho disaster that wrecked Belgium
and Serbia. Greece will surely Increase
her territory without sacrificing men and
money nnd risking her future. No one
can say King Constantino Is traitorous.
Ho Is thoroughly honest.
"I see by press dispatches that the Eng
lish have been forced to withdraw from
their strongest line near Bagdad, The line
probably will remain where it is now
until the Turks bring up reinforcements.
Then this lino will be taken; the British
will lose what they now hold In Mesopo
tamia and presently the Suez Canal will
be In danger."
bitter fight between Pnrose and antl
Penrose Congressmen, Representative
George S. Graham, of Philadelphia,
sought to head off the Impending clash
by moving that the meeting adjourn His
motion was made just as soon as Repre
sentative Thomas Butler, of West
Chester, had called the meeting to order.
"There has been a great deal of elec
tioneering going on and there Is Intense
feellotr over this contest," said Mr.
Graham. "In view of what is before us
in Congress wo ought to have harmon
ious action. Election at this time would
be fraught with serious danger of caus
ing wounds which would take some time
to heal."
When Mr, Graham concluded his argu
ment In support of his plan, Mr, Butler
asked:
"Is there anybody else who wants to
speak as wisely?"
Representative William W. Grlest. of
Lancaster, who followed Mr. Graham,
favored postponement of the election un
til a later' date. ."I have a very great
Interest In the success of the Republi
can party," said (Mr. Grlest. "I fear
the acrimony that has resulted In this
contest over nothing Is fraught with
danger and may bring results that none
of us desire.'
FOCHT THROWS A BOMB.
Representative Benjamin K. Focht, of
Lewisburg, threw a bomb Into the plans
of the pacifists. He denounced what he
called Vare'a "dictation" and added:
"I think this matter ought to be settled
here and settled now, Jt Is not In the
heart of either of the candidates to show
any reaeutmetit toward any Congressman
because of his selection. The time comes
when men must show themselves. Pol
itics Isn't for children and Congressmen
are not children. The contest has resolved
iueir Into a question of whether we are
ColtottU a Vae Three, CoIoklu Oaa
Great British Editor
Says German Ideals
Will Never Be Accepted
Prussians Inferior Racially to
English - Speaking Peoples.
Bully by Nature, Cringe to
Superiors Peace Efforts by
U. S. Not Wanted
America Warned to Bo Prepared or
Invasion of Pacific Coast States
Will Bo Penalty Hyphenated Citi
zens Scored nnd Ford Peace Mis
sion Ridiculed
What Lord NorthclifTc
Says in Message to U. S.
War will bo lonp.
Allies' strength increasing, but
each day sees Teutons growing
weaker.
Ideals of Germany will never bo
accepted by Englnnd, Franco or the
United States.
Prussians racially inferior to
Americans, Canadians, Australians
or Britons.
Supermen of Kaiser character
ized by square heads and big cars.
They overeat nnd overdrink; bully
inferiors nnd cringe to superiors.
Allies do not want military aid
from United States nnd would re
sent national effort toward bring
ing about pence.
Ford and his peace mission have
hurt prestige of Americans.
Warns the United States that
preparedness is needed and tho
penalty of unprepnrcdness will bo
invasion of the Pacific const Stntcs.
To pet nn expression of Ilrlttsh ntiitudc
toward the war at the bcplnntnrj of 10fi,
the Unitcil Press went to .on! A'orlh
cUffe, proprietor nf the London Times and
probably the toorld'a oreatest present-day
newspaper publisher. Northcliffe, who,
through Ms SO publications, Is probably
mora closely In touch with the British
public than anybody else In tha United
Kingdom, hai answered with lha follow
In! sfafcmcnf:. i
By LORD NORTHCLIFFE
'" Copvriohl, fote, ty Unlted.j'rea;
LONDON", Jan. S, When months ago I
had the honor of communicating with at
least 60,000,000 Americans through tho
United Press I plninly expressed my be-,
lief thnt wo wcro In for a long, long war.
Events have followed the lines I Indi
cated, I do not pose ns a prophet, but
I do know something about tho toughnew
of Anglo-Saxon fibre ns compared with
that of the Prussians, and I do know that
each day brings access of strength to us
and weakening to them.
Tho Germnn war point of view Is
frnnkly money-making and territorial ag
grandizement. Doctor Helrfcrlch, the
Geimnn Finance Minister, constantly
dilates upon the Indemnities Germany Is
going to get. Germany hopes. In addition,
to obtain Belgian c'onso. Germany was
under tho Impresslou that tho wealth of
Franco would pour Into tier lap within a
few weeks of the outbreak of war. Eng
land was not expected to enter tho war.
Our pacificists, like yours, again nnd
again Infprmed the world that ne did not
raise our boys to bo soldiers. England's
coming Into tho war was as great a Mir
prlsc to our Government as It was to the
Germans. We had, with one or two ex
ceptions, a pacifist administration.
lint so soon as Germany entered Bel
glum the common peoplo rose, ns one man,
to insist upon mi attempt nt defense of
that little nation nnd its heroic King.
GEHMANS DECEIVED.
Tho outburst of rago that followed In
Germany was the rage of the tiger balked
of Its, prey. Tho Uenr-in tiger consoled
Itself by tho thought that John Bull was
an effete old plutocrat, whose sons and
Continued on I'iikc l!lffht. Column Two
DURAZZ0 MINACCIATA
DALLE F0RZEBULGARE
Una Battaglia E' Imminente
tra Italiani e Truppe di
Re Ferdinando
I.a uotlzla plu' Importante che si ha
oggi dall'Europa ' che una battaglia e"
Imminente tra le forze Itallane che dlfen
dono Durazzo e quelle bulgare che da
Blbassan nvanzano verso quella citta'
albanese SI dice che trenta o quaran
tamlla bulgarl sono giunti a S mlglla da
Durazzo e che le avanguardle formate dl
Irregolarl albanesl o ulllclall bulgarl sono
gla' venute a contatto con git estreml
uvampostl Italian! sulla antlca strada
romana che porta da Durazzo ad Klbas
san. Questa' .lotlzla non e' ufllclalments
confermaU n. Roma, ma vleno da font)
diverse e bembrn. certa.
II generate Cadorna ha annunclato nel
buo rappcrto d leri sera che le forze
Itallane operant! nella zona dl Hlva hanno
avanzato contjulstando . altre poslzlonl
dominant! tra Biacesa e Kocchetta e sul
llancht del Monte Perone, ed hanno
avanzato anche nella zona a nord dl
Monfalcone, sul Car so. Nella zona dl
Hlva gll Italian! hanno avanzato dunque
suite create e sue ftancht del Monte
Glumclla, tra la Val dl Ledro e Hlva.
avvlolnaudosl ancora plu' a questa ci(ta'
ed al fort! che la dlfendouo da ovest.
tl-eggece in a paglna le ultimo e plu'
deltagllato notizle sulla guerra, in
italiano )
Accuses KxBoarder as Purse Thief
Mrs. Ann Sakalowskt recognized on the
street today a former boarder who more
than a year ago, the police say, snatched
a purse ft oni her and escaped. As a re
sult Stephen QJaganley. of 2WI East Mon
mouth street, was arrested and Is now
out on ball for u further hearing. The
woman met Magonley on the street in
October. 1911, according to her story. He
snatched her purse, she sas, and when
she returned borne M) worth of Jewelry
had disappeared from her room. Magau
lcy said ha returned to this city about a
week ace.
EXTRAI
KAISER DEAD, REPORT
ON N. Y. PRODUCE EXCHANGE
NEW YORK, Jnn. 5. A rumor that Emperor William is dead
ch culated upon the Produce Exchange this afternoon.
No confitmntion of the nbovo rumor has been lcceived by cable,
nor has theie Ken any intimation that the Kaiser is dying.
GERARD CONFERS WITH FOREIGN OFFICE ON PERSIA
LONDON, Jan. 5. James W. Gerard, the United States Ambas
sador at Berlin, conferred today with officials of the German -Foreign
Office lclativc to the destruction of the liner Peisla by a submarine,
t!ays an Exchaugc Telegraph dibpatch from Amsterdam. Mr. Gerard
is bUpposcd to have lcaincd the nationality of the submarine.
HAITIAN REBELS ATTACK U. S. MARINES
POnT-AU-PHINCE, Hultl, Jan. 5. Hultlau rebels attacked tho United
States mnrlnes In tills city early today, but were driven off with tho loss of
ono man killed. Tlio Americans Buffered no cnsyaltlci.
KAISER'S SIXTH SON TO WED AT MILITARY MARRIAGE
UEIIL.IN, Jan. IS, Tho mnrrlnn;e of I'rinco Joachim, Blxtli son of tho Kaiser,
has been set for the end of February; It was nnnounced today. It will bo
purely a war ceremony, with only tmmetllnto relatives present.
BUCHANAN TO PLEAD TO PLOT INDICTMENT
WASHINGTON, Jan. r.. Representative Muchannn, of Illinois, .indicted In
Now York on a rhnrRc of conspiracy iifralnst tho neutrality laws, went to
New York today to plead not Riillty In Kcdcrnl Court nnd arrango bond, Slnco
his Indictment Huchnnan lina refrained from appearing on tho Moor of tho
House.
BRITISH WILLING TO ARBITRATE BARALONG CASE
LONDON, Jan. B. Tho IlrttMi Govornment Is willing to submit tho caso of
tho auxiliary crulncr linrnlong, accused of sinking a Germ.m submarine and
slaughtering her crew In violation of tho laws of uor, to a nouiral tribunal, pro
vided tho German Government will at tho samo timo submit tho cases of various
German submarines uccuacd of equally gross violations to tho samo tribunal.
An otllclal statement was Issued by tho Foreign Olllcc last night to this effect,
suggesting that an Impartial tribunal might ho composed of olllcers of tho United
States navy. "
RUSSIA TAKES MEASURES TO STOP RIOTING
BERLIN, Jan. C. Stern measures have been adopted by tlio .Russian Gov
ernment to HtipprcsH nnti-Guvernmcnt outbreaks, according to the Overseas
News Agency.- The agency today gave out what purports to bo tho proceed
ings of f meeting of tho Russlnn Hudget Committee In I'etrograd, when tho
Minister of interior said that tho Governors of Russian provinces had been
instructed to opposo riots with force of nrms In order to prevent a general
outbreak.
CIVIL ENGINEER ELECTROCUTED BY LIVE WIRES
Charles Armstrong, a civil engineer, of Nnrbcrtli, Pa., was electrocuted at
25th stroctjtndjfiuntlnB Park avenue today. A steel tape which ho throw over
telegraph wires strucka llvo wire. Armstrong was engaged In survingr th?
Pennsylvania Railroad tracks in connection with electrlllcntion plans.
GREECE REPLIES TO BULGAR-TEUTON PROTEST
SOFL, Jnn. 5. Tho text or tho Greek note protesting ngulnst tho arrest
of the Consular representatives of tho German allies In Saloutca was handed
to the Bulgarian Foreign Minister todny by tho Greek Ambassador.
, Tho note states that Greeco wants to maintain good relations with tho
Central Empires, and will do everything possible, to obtain tho relcaso of
tho Consuls.
CZAR VOWS WAR UNTIL LAST FOE IS EXPELLED
LONDON, Jan. 5. At a review of tlio Russian army on Jnnuary 2, Emperor
Nicholas delivered an address to tho Chevaliers of tho Order of St. George. "To
you as tlio most valiant leprosentntlves of our army," tho Emperor said, "I offer
my moat cordial and profound appreciation of your services, which In this cam
paign have been full of bravery nnd sacrifices. I beg you to transmit to your
respective regiments my sinccro gratitudo for your painful efforts which have
succeeded, as all Russia, as well as I, understands, and rest assured that, as I
said at tho beginning of tho war, I will not conclude peaco until wo have expelled
tho last enemy from our territory, and I will only conclude this peace with the
full nccord of our allies, to whom wo nro bound, not by paper treaties, but by real
friendship nnd blood."
BRITAIN OFFERS $10,000 REWARD FOR U-BOAT HUNTERS
SALONICA, Jan, 5 The British authorities have offered a reward of C0,o6o
francs ($10,000) for information of tho presence, of German submarines In the
Aegean Sea. A laige German submurlno has been conveyed in sections by the.
Smyrna Rnllrond to Aldln, and thenco taken to Budrum Bay, in southern Asia
Minor, In tho Gulf of Kos, according to t Mytlele dispatch, says L'Qeuvre'a
Athens correspondent. Tho dispatch adds that 20 German and Austrian blue
jackets, In command of n lieutenant, are putting the submersible together.
RUSSIANS PUT PERSIAN REBELS TO FLIGHT
PETROGRAD, Jan. 5. A AVar Otllco statement saj-B; "In tho direction of
Hamadan (Persia), southwest of tho town of Asadabad, wo attacked a body of
500 Persian gendarmes (part of the force which rebelled against tho authority
of tho Shah) and drove them hack toward tho viilago of Chena, north of Kanga
war, killing dozens of rebels and capturing prisoners and supplies. Wo suffered
no losses. On the 1st of January our detachment holding Hamadan rendered
military honors to tho British flag, which was hoisted over the British consulate-"
AUSTRIA TRIES YOUNG CZECH LEADER FOR TREASON
BERLIN, Jan. 5. Private Information has peon received here from Vienna
that Dr. Karl Kramarz, who Is prominent In Austrian political affairs as tha
leader of the Young Czech party In the Relclisrath, is now on trial on a charge
of high treason. Doctor Koerner, secretary or the Young Czech faction, and sev
eral other Bohemian politicians are being tried at the same time on similar
charges. It Is reported that Doctor Kramarz is conducting his own defense,
managing it with great skill. He came into International prominence some time
ago through tho movement for a rapprochement between Bohemians and Rus
sians.
MORE THAN S215.000.000
NEW YORK. Jan. 5, Summaries carried to the end of 1916 show that more
than J150,000,000 has been spent for American foodstuffs, clothing and hospital
supplies which have been forwarded to the' war sone by relief agencies. Nearly
all of these purchases have gone to the countries of tho Allies. Of the total,
approximately two-thirds, or $100,000,000, was raised and spelt In tho latter
part of 1914. after the last week in August, In addition, relief for the Germanio
side has been provided In money, which has been used in payment for supplies
made In Germany and Austria, Individual donations in this country and else
where account for more than $40,000,000. and cash contributions for Germans
and Jews have exceeded $25,000,000.
LINER LAFAYETTE SEARCHED AFTER PLOT WARNING
LONDON, Jan. 5. Travelers arriving here (rem France brln furthw
details of threats to destroy tha Lafayette, which sailed from Bordeaux Th
passengers received anonymous warnings similar to those sent f passenger
on the Lusitanla before her voyage, stating that an attempt was to b road
to slpk the vessel. The letters were received in Paris and causd quite u, tsenatt?
tlon. Several passengers canceled bookings. Among; the Americana wba received
letters, but who sailed nevertheless, were Henry Clews, Jr., and an attorney,
Donald Harper. The matter was lnvstlsated by the United States Kiubay,
which learned that tho French Uoernment was fully informed concerning tb?
letters and had taken every precaution against disinter by pro iding, a &atro.yor
convoy to guard tbo liner until It got out of the danger zone. The LafayeUti
was also thoroughly overhauled. In order to iiuiko sure that no infernal nw;fete,
vas aboard.
SPEN'P;?WAR RELIEF
