Subscribers of The Daily Gate
City are served the full Leased
Wire Service of the United
Pifess Associations.
woeSbTS
followed,, th* lines loaicaieu. 1 «u
But bo soon as Germany entered
Belgtum, the common people rose as
mi
•.fw:
VOL. 122. NO. 4.
IJIWUft IIS FIE!
Lord Northcliffe Says Germany's War Point of
||L View it Frankly Money Making and
Territorial Aggrandizement.
EiUWD AND
United States is in Danger of Attack by Covet
ous Nation and Should Not Feel
Secure from Invasion.
4t'V
t»u
frankly money-ma^g and territorial can be moved to your shores
PREPAREDNESS PROGRAM
$
-4®
President Wilson's Plan Will!
v/ ^Ohanges Are Made.
•uir*1
[United Praia leased Wire Service]
WASHINGTON, Jan. 5.—Unless ma
terially modified, President WIlson'E
preparedness plan Is beaten. This is
the opinion, unauthorltatlvely learned
today, of the administration Itself.
Defection of senator Kern, senate
democratic leader, from the forces
working for the great army and navy
™»»»Mug iut U.O
I'i'
r* fr
jwr.'m
?}s£r .'• i'r
rNote—To get an expression of the ope man to insist upon an attempt at
British attitude toward the war at the defense of that little nation and its
beginning of 1916, the United Pres*' heroic king.
irent to Lord Northcliffe, proprietor) The outburst of rage that followed
of the London Times, and probably the in Germany was the rage of the tiger
world's greatest present day newspa-1 balked of its prey. The German tiger
per publisher. Northcliffe. who through consoled itself by the thought that
his fifty publications Is probably more John Bull was an etfete old plutocrat
closely in touch with the British pub-'whose sons and daughters vere given
lie —an anybody else in the united up to sport and amusement. Our army
kingdom, has answered with-the fol-jwas little largrer than yours. The! anticipate the arguments of the op
lowing statement] kaiser in his famous order Issued at position- Lord Kitchener was expect
!A1* t* Chapelle referred to It as "Sir «d to make a similar statement In
4 By Lord Northcliffe. Written for the John French's contemptible little the house of lords.
United Press.] army." Since then, by voluntary en-j ®ir John A. Simons speech, giving
.[Copyright, 1916, by the United Press.J (listment of free men, we already Poa-j"| Iff?®"*
LONDON, Jan. 5.—When months, sess one of the world's largest
ago 1 had the honor of communicating forces. 1Uck*
with nf least flfly million Americana Your position today
through the
expreaseedt
aggrandizement.ktr. Helfferlch. the hostile countries In. little more than ,*ccu-r*te °n
CJerman finance minister, const9nt'y the time it took to move bodies from:"** «»®®n ootalneo,
addition, to obtain tbe Belgian Congo, able to transport at least a mtllion
Germany vfas under tbe impression soldiers across the sea show a territory between the
that the wealth of France would pour, European or oriental nation, could, if BaMee canal and Lens.
—-j
Bro»L auu rQi^r^ar3
plans will not carry. Kern's declara
tion that he cannot support the pro
gram, became known today. That the
people of Indiana are opposed. Is
Program outlined bjr the president in upon measure of
Kern a rZ» It i.Tm Thu the democratic state central oommtt
Kern a chief reason. It Is said. This
leaves the prepareuness program un
supported by the leadera in both
houses. Kitchln. house majority lead
er. has held off from the first.but
Kern, warm Wilson admirer, has been
expected to lead the administration's
senate fight
Kern today refused to confirm the
report as to his attitude.
"I will stand by. my statement that,
generally, I will support the program,
although as to which of the several
Plans proposed shall approve, I can
not say," he said.
The political and personal relation
ship between Bryan and Senator Kern
haa always been close. The defection
of the Indiana senator is directly
traced to the Nebraskan, who is said
to have apent two (lays with House
Leader Kitchln during the past week,
planning against the administration
program.
Leaders with wbom lie tea talked
tefl
w*c
vl"-- 1
armed
«in.n -goou [iusiuuu lur aiguLiug »a.j /.unAu1 ...
inot'ros^M a prophet, but I 'do know* wear by reason of the lack of unity' LONDON, Jan. 5.—-The^battle of
something about the toughness of, of the races that now compose the i,
Anglo-Saxon fibre as compared with United States. On the other hand youi*m"B the German lines in September,
that of the Prussians, and I do know offer the same temptation to any. hun-1°*[*
..
that each day brings access of gry and aggressive army that we did |w** admitted today.
strength to us and weakening to them.)You have lots of money, few soldiers! Brltlan losses alone totalled nearly
troax
you arej!
Into her lap wltbln a few Weeks of the you were unprepared
outbreak of war. England was no'!shin them to you.
expected to enter tbe war. Our pacl-! England. France and other allies are French_ launched their great offensive
flsts, like yours, again and again In-'grateful for the sympathy they havethe Champagne. The British, whose
formed the world that we did not raise {received from large numbers of Amer-jobject wae to capture Looa, rushed the
ou- boys to be soldiers. England's leans. Some ten thousand Americans, 1
coming Into the war was as great a'a number of whom have already be-jf®r depth of 4,ooo yards in some
surprise to Oar government as it was [come officer*, have shown their loyal- jplaeee, but In fiphtinq later in the
to the Germans. We had, with one orlty to tbe cause of democracy, freedom ,week were driven o,ut of some of the
two exceptions, a pacifist admin Is tra- and Individualism by enlisting In our newly captured ground. They occu
tion.
DOOMED TO FAILURE.
1
Not Garry Unless Some
say that Bryan is viciously
against the president's program and'step to avoid opposition
Is threatening to stump the country I party leaders.
prior to the democratic convention
to arouse sentiment igainst prepared
f^?"'
•V-*
ZW,v1
[By J. W. T. Mason. Written for the
United Press.] a
I NEV/y YORK, Jan. 5—Warning to
the,' ited States to prepare for a
pro'x Ie conflict with Japan is given
by ^jrd Northcliffe in his statement
t( £r ie United Press concerning the
ons of the EJuropean war.
'•1$ imerica'3 wealth and defenseless
^jS6, says the great British newspa
er proprietor, will inevitably per
auade some other nation to come and
take what she wants. Ixird North
cliffe outwardly veils the enemy hy
suggesting it may be Lapland or
Greenland, but reveals his inner mean
ing by describing the invasion as oc
curring on the Pacific coast.
The seriousness of the warning is
emphasized by the possibility of a teu­
1 »h&wld be exemptetd to forestall op-
0*".
I
The battle began on the night of
September 24, at the aame time the
German trenchesion a five mile front
army either through Canada or direct. I Pied Hill No. 70, one mile from Lens.
jbut were unable to capture Lens and
later withdrew.
(Continued on pago 5.)
CONSCRIPTION BILL.
LONDON, Jan. 5.—Premier As
jqulth this afternoon Introduced In
commons the government's bill for con-
•crlption.
Ireland Is excluded from the pro
vis-
7 lone of the bill, Premier Asqulth ap
bitter nouneed. The government took this
from Irish
n&ss ana against a second term for .ku
I Wilaoni They say that while Bryan "ot
has no intention of bolting the action *1™.•"
The wave of sentiment for a great Proven," he said.
preparedneas program, which a few The announcement was regarded as
Weeks ago was sweeping the country, !an admission that the cabinet had
has reached its crest, some admlnl»- reached a compromise on the conscrlp.
tra tion leaders think. Today, Presl- {|on question. By rejecting the eug
dent Wilson is receiving naany dis- Ig^tion of Lloyd George and other
aOrrfBnn'i0n»^nv *tr0"a
hla message to congress. Was the Anal &aj\fTh®°nt derated ASquith prevented other res
proof to the white heues that its
1,kAnitin^tlOTnSymth^trtt^rtAuS-!^om
Misslaalppf telling that Venable
In -offorinq the bill, the prime mlnls-
ter declared that the government does I
pl*" dna/t
0 ,.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
LONDON, Jan. S.—The conscrip
tion battle that' m*y bring a new
crisis In domestic affaltjs of the united
kingdom opened in parliament today,. 1 lies on aU fronts Is expectedjiy Hun-
Premier Asqiiith was prepared to
introduce In commons, the govern
ment's bill for compulsory service.
In offering this measure, the prime
minister was expected to expose! the
1 failure of the voluntary system and
^e^blne^wlMbetheslBnafoi- at-
of th#
anti-conscription lau.
tiA* at aii .li generally understood that Ireland
Jm
Brltlan attempted1 to
j5
.?? ",*tory
11
The Gernwtn war polnt of viewls and oom^t^ i*°,000, Un«»er Secretary of War Ten- ""'be fa^^Vhe* £Ean7 m.'y'
i^^dAhuer^°""t^ Qe^n'os^s Po^ers are losing patience.
tne
German losse*.
—mrim th(,
dilates upon tbe Indemnities Germany New York to Boston two hundred ^oun^Andrassy expressed admira-' an^wlfounded^uffer from'g"- P°rt
Is *c«ng to set. Germany hopes in years ago. The fact that we have been ®,?"' I tion for the manner in which King owing to
I
La-
'"Si •eryJce
c°"*cr,Ption
trlan critics might reflect strength tot
the administration's program, came P*'0n did not meet all the expectations
In a telegram to the white house from.0' *°m* government officials. Premier
1
bad been elected to congress after'
making an out-and-out fight for pre-,
paredness
That material navy increases can
be obtained is not doubted. Admin
Istfhtlon. still are confident
oni.officials
two battleships and a large number of
auxiliaries will be authorized by con
gress.
at this
of.n
I of the convention should it support! "The results of the Derby recruiting
(the presideflt, the-Nebr&skan hopes to campaign snow that the case for gen
prevent this support. compulsion has not yet been
!,,tlryJ,0e-
(Continued on Page 8.)
A
Preparedness hearings, which prom
ise to laat for months, were begun by
the'house naval committee today. To-| [United Press Leased Wire Service]
morrow the army program will be ATHENS, Jan. 5.—Italian troopa
taken up by the house military com-j may be engaged in actual flghtfhg in
mlttee with Secretary Garrison, the
first witness.
Rear Admiral H. R. Stanford, chief
of the navy bureau of yards and
Sr^-'v-
the Balkans within a few days, accord
ing to advicea received here today.
Forty thousand Bulgarians pressing
westward through Albania have ar-
docks, was the first witness. Need for I rlv^ wtthln twenty-elght miles of the
more government docks where battle
ships and smaller craft can be bunt
was the tenor of Admiral Stanford's
statements
Adriatic aescoaat, east of Ourazzo.
Italian tropa are reported to hold Du
razz6 and a battle is declared to be
ImnlnenU
KEOKUK, IOWA WEDNESDAY, JAN. 5, 1916
BRITISH EDITOR SCORES GERMANY
HE 1
When Japan and Germany
|If Combine to Conquer America
ton-Japanese understanding after the
war. Japan has to abide by the al
lies' agreement not to trade with Ger
mans while the war is in progress
German prisoners are being favored
in Japan and it has been reported that
the Tokio government will not block
the kaiser's efforts after the war, to
regain Germany's lost prestige in
China.
There is a growing dissatisfaction
in the British empire over Great
Britain's alllence with "Japan. Canada.
Australia and New Zealand are hostile
to oriental intimacies. These great
self governing dependencies will have
far more influence upon international
policies when peace returns than they
have had before.
They unquestionably will be op
[By Carl W. Ackerman, United Press
Staff Correspondent.]
BUDAPEST,' Jan. I (Delayed.)—A
.great offensive movement by tte
ll Jan
advocates for a
fmr
reachlnP effect. It Is un-
the minify.
si-
garian officials that spring. T'ic/ are
certain it will meet with defeat.
"The allies fail to take into ac
count our military positions," Count
Julius Andraasy, Hungarian parlia
mentary leader, declared to the Unit
ed Press today. "We are so situated
now that we can help each other. We
can send men and resources to any
front at any time. We can concen
trate—something the enemy cannot
do. This, I believe, makes our vic
tory certain because it overbalances
the resources of our opponents. The
situation cannot be changed by an
entente offenalve this spring/'
there will be no early peace.
"I think this Is going to be a long,
long war," said Count Andraasy.
"There is at present no chance of
peace in vight. We £ould make peace
«. kino o.
dad. The line probably will remain
where It is now until the Turks bring
(Continued on Page 8.)
5—Artillert and
eral sectors
were reported by the war office this
afternoon.
NOTICE
The subscription price of
The Daily Gate City by
mail has been $3.00 in the
towns and $2.50 on rural
routes. These two differ
ent rates have caused so
much confusion and dis
satisfaction that after
February 1, 1916, there
will be but -one price for
the daily by mail and that
$3.00 per year.
The subscription price of
the daily in Keokuk re
mains the same—10 cents
par week. 1:4-
posed to future pledges of British sup
port to Japan in case of war. Colonial
disapproval probably has been the
reason why Great Britain has refuse^
to sanction the use of Japanese
troops in Burope. Txird Northcliffe
probably already has begun to sense
this feeling.
His warning may well be a cryptic
prophecy that Japan and Germany will
be found together In a new alliance
some time in the future, with the
United StateB as the common enemy.
Under this condition, America might
be compelled to rely on the support of
the British empire. Inevitably would
this be necessary If a simultaneous
Atlantic and Pacific attack were to
catch the United States unprepared.
[By Wm. G. Shepherd, United Press
Staff Correspondent]
MONA8TIR, Servla, Dee. 2*. (by
mail)—Balkan soldiers suffer more
than thoae of any other nation. How
the Bulgarians, the newcomers, will
conduct their medical oorpa, remains
to be seen. Winter Imposes almost
insurmountable difficulties on an army
in the Balkans owing to the few roads
and the almost Inoeesant mud and
rain. The Germane and the Ausrtrlans,
with their automobile ambulances,
have dodged the hardest and worst
part* of Servia. The German line ex
tends down Into Servla only fifty
miles and the Germans seem satisfied
with that. There ie little ehanee of
their coming further. The Austrian
line reaches only alightly deeper Into
the little ally country. The Auatrlans
and the Germans appear to have the
single intention of -connecting*. the
Bulgarians, if possible^ in the north
eastern tip of Servia and avoiding the
Bad Lands. But the Bulgariana will
not have such easy going. Their
wounded and sick must be carried on
springlesa wagons drawn, oftentimes,
next week, but the allies do not de- by oxen, which plod through the knee
sire it they are not yet convinced of deep mud In a elow and dismal pro-.
our superiority.
,J
It
is a be measured by ^|leVee
1
shame for humanity that we cannot along the roada near Monastir and
make peace now." the hospitals here. Most of the Servl-
gj,,.. ___ 1 Count Andrassy expressed admira-! an wounded suffer from gap gangrene, __
the
lack of
Constantino of Greece has dealt with by the long, slow cart journeys. Small
diplomatic representatives on both wounds that would meant only
rne^v*mr-":flt,hphaveServiano
but for Greece. He will keep Greece and wounded men are being given
neutral and save her from the dis- doses almost unbellev&bly large and
aster that wrecked Belgium and Ser-1 potent and the doctors fancy that the A Nur
v.inb""p°
.id,, .nj .pok. of the poa.ibilltl.a of. w.tk In the ho.plUI if prompt .JS«r^ntSwS!
Greece is handling the situation," he on. American as well as doc- academy on San Francis^ Bay. Wit
said. "He Is clever and playing poll- tors are helpless against gas gangrene, the long, unprotected
tics neither for us nor for the allies, 1 Quinine is being tried In 8ervia now,Baldl
bia. Greece will surely Increase her I gas gangrene victims are helped J-ilV lu VVvUliiU xskj
territory without sacrificing men and slightly by the new treatment. Explo-j a O T'\TT7,/~\T?TV/T A
Iy. shredding and spattering flesh in
all directions from the person of the
unhappy tsrget. All of a leg or an
arm below the point where an explo-!
slv® bullet has struck, the bone may
aa well be amputated, for the bone
Of these bullets strike a bone and it
will be splintered, the flesh blown
away and gas gangrene imminent. In
the hospital here Is a farmer boy who
was hit,In the right leg and arm by
a bullet which came from above Mm.
The bullet exploded In the leg, shat
tering it, and the leg was taken off by
[United Press Leased Wire Service.] doctors. Ga. gangrene set in In act could not be predicted by officials.
dcbi in (Mia wireless to 4avviii«
arm
(Continued on page 2.)
RUSSIA
[United Press Leased Wire
LONDON, Jan. 5.—Heavy
bombardment haa forced the Ausxn
ans to retire acroes the Pruth river,
north of Czernowitx, according to
Bucharest dispatches today, which
failed to confirm Petrograd reports
that the Russians have occupied the
Bukowina capitsl.
'mw'FMB*'*''" rj--.nr
in
attention
that
tears shed across tbe seas," he said.
"We would look upon such a person
much as we would look upon the man
who boasts of having rifled clothes of
dead soldiers on a battle field."
Levee for Valley.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 5. -Expendl-
i^
01
?1'250'000
for a 8,Xteen
For Western Academy.
and that too, was amputated. Difficulties grew in securing the \ltal-
mneiThe young man thereby gains the ly necessary information. Hut before
rnmhats of minor ImDortance on sev distinction of having lost a leg and the end the week officials believed
combats »f mlny Impom.^on «v. „an ,Se ,of
c®ast
western
'!n®'
states had particular
I?
money and risking her future. No I slve bullets are another cause of hor-i X1N v/JaIVIjCA.
1
lv/11 AO OUUvJfl 1
one can say King Constantino Is rlble suffering In the Balkan fighting,
traitorous. He is thoroughly honest. Not content with sending a bullet1
"I see by press dispatches that the through an enemy, the Balkan battlers
English have been forced to withdraw often use bullets that explode. Let one
from their strongest line near Bag- creates in the fleah all the havoc of UlllCltUS XlOpC I0T oawsI&CvOry
a miniature Jack Johnson shell, actual-j Outcome of the Submarine
Excitement.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
WASHINGTON. Jan. 5.—Slowly but.
surely, the state department today
mobilized information from a dozen
sources upon which to baae vigorous
acllon promised by the president re
garding the sinking of the liner Per-
How soon this government can
Bl»tralion w,„ n„ve
Is likely to hear little this winter of basis to act.
what Is going on in 8ervla becauseTension in official quarters was
slightly relaxed. The "cooling off"
period by mere lapse of time while
awaiting information, was appreciated
as a hopeful factor. A slight tinge of
optimism was manifested. For the
first time since the Persia was sunk,
some officials expressed hope that,
despite tbe ominous outlook, an ave
nue for adjustment of the contro
I versy without severance of diplo
matic relations may yet be found.
Hopes of officials for a satisfactory
I outcome were admittedly based on
Service] Austria's possible action. Official
Russian eyes were upon Vienna. Officials re-
ated the plain and unequivocal nrom
Iro in her last note on the Ancona
to observe International law in her
submarine warfare.
Delay in action by Austria was as
cribed by officials today to Inability
In their retreat, the Austrians blew of the submarine commander to
up the two bridges across the Pruth. reach his base and report. Officials
The bridgeheads on the south side of, still believe if au Austrian subma
the stream are being shelled by Slav rine is responsible. Austria without
artillery, it was stated and the Rus-' waiting for an ultimatum from this
sians are attempting to cross the riv-1 country, will take proper action,
er at a ford northeast of Cxernowitr. A dozen Americans in Vienna, Ber-
A dispatch from The Hague today lin, Alexandria and elsewhere were
said civilians have been ordered to today enlisted in the searcbyfor evi
evacuate portions of Czernowitx and dence. Cabled summaries of survi
that the Austrians were moving reln-i vors' affidavits were expected to reach
forcementa toward the city. the state department today.
THE "W!SATHER i{
Fair. Cold wave tonight. Local
temp—7 p. m. 58 7 a. m. 35.
A GREAT PANIC MAY FOLLOW PEACE
Advocate of Increased Tariff Makes Stirring
Speech in Congress, With a Dire
Prediction.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
WASHINGTON. Jan. 6.—Calling the
present upward swing of business
"blood soaked prosperity," coming as
a piece of political good fortune to
help the democratic party, Represen
tative Humphrey of Washington in a
speech predicted a panic unequalled
In the history of the country at the
end of the European war, unless tbe
tariff rates are raised.
Secretary Redfleld, said Humphrey,
rushes Into print with prosperity tid
ings every time a new gun is sold
to the warring nations. He referred
to Redfleld as the "official prosperity
'thimble rigger' of the administra
tion." Humphrey said that with all
the heavy exports, prosperity Is still
"local, spotted, temporary and spas
modic."
f°°'
at Vo,cano to prevent
f(^11^8DV!aUfir^PT^orTln«yto"a^re-
to
Imposed
congress by General W.
Mar9ha11'
government engineer,
EIGHT PAGES
BEFORE if W COMES
Present Upward Swing of Business, Because of
War, is Called Piece of Political For- I
tune for Democrats.
Navy—Commander Louis MoC. Nul-
ton, to be captain. Lieutenant Com-
'Who will boast prosperity S- E&l?a., to be ccwru«Mfc
,t is measured by the biood and|er
Bnsigns Thomas Moran and Donald
iBoyden, to be lieutenants^ junior
jgrade.
Albert Sdlland, of California, to be
assistant surgeon in the medical
corps.
Senator McCumber. North Dakota,
the author, said notwithstanding, oil
production In 1915 was greater than
1914,' prices have practically doubled.
Senator Walsh of Montana, suggest
ed that the investigation show what
fields are undeveloped, because of
failure to have broad enough public
land laws.
a
I I 1 1 1 W IN
rPT/^\'M
Waiting for Facts.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 5.—President
Wilson and Secretary of State Lan
sing for nearly an hour today thresh
ed out the International crisis devel
oped by the sinking of the Persia. At
the conclusion of their conference,
Lansing said this country is still
"waiting: the facts."
It Is hoped Ambassador Penfleld at
Vienna will be able to throw seme
light on the situation within the next
twenty-four hours.
Indications are that a certain time
will be given for informal inquiries by
this government's representatives at
Vienna and if nothing develops from
these Inquiries, specific requests will
be made of the Austrian government
to aid this country in determining the
nationality of the submarine. Aus
trian submarines are the only ones
which have been reported in the vicin
ity.
So far as other negotiations be
tween America and Austria are con
cerned there was evidence today that
the situation is clearing. Secretary
Lansing said in all probability
I'r
fi
-j
i-
WJi
&
.--i-t 4
need of an academy which wonld train
young men to familiarity with local
conditions.
He said Annapolis soon would reach
its capacity of 1,200 cadets and de
clared Secretary Daniels had approv
ed his plan.
•B
Today'a Nominations.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 5.—Nomina
tions sent to the senate today:
United States judge, western dis
trict South Carolina, Joseph T. John
son. of Spartanburg, S. C.
U. S. attorney for Indiana, L. Ert
Slack of Indianapolis.
James Y. Callahan, of Woodward,
register of land office, Guthrie. Okla.
1
-4,1
'SMpiij
•mm,
To Investigate Gasoline.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 6.—The senate
today adopted a resolution Instructing
Secretary of the Interior Lane to re
nort on oil and gasoline production.
'f*. i1
UE
it
5
TQ C/^T T/*^ UT
Unofficial reports that the Persia's
boilers apparently blew up, promised
to form a factor in the inquiry. Offi
cials do not believe, however, that a
boiler explosion was the initial cause
of the catastrophe.
.i
•ft
110
fur­
ther notes would be sent to Austria
on the Ancoca. This would indicate
that the loose ends of that incident
will be straightened out through the
Austrian charge here.
Sfiould it finally prove that an Aus
trian submarine sank the Persia, there
is strong indication both in Austria
and government circles that the gu.n
mounted on the Persia will form the
main bone of contention. Secretary
Lansing said today naval authorities
probably would be asked to determine
just what is the efficacy of a gun of
4.7 calibre and how important a part
it should play in the situation.
The secretary said uis department
had received n* word today from
Penfleld. or any other of the Euro
pean agents which would serve to
(Continued on page 2J
1
1
