"JAPAN AND THE NEXT WAR."
Powerful imaginative story of her crushing
naval defeat by the United States. A
fisting companion piece to "Hlnden
... hJitg n March Into London."
IN THE SUN NEXT SUNDAY.
THE WEATHER PORECAST.
Rain and warmer to-day; rain, strong
winds, to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, 38; lowest, 35.
Detailed weather, null and marine reports on pae IT.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 127.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 1916. Copurtght, 1918, b the Sn i-n-nHfiji and J'ubliiMno Automation.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
jt
SAYS QUIGG LET
WOODOUTJHEN
PUT JODGE IN
TlHHiipson tiepeats Story
Told to Senator Lawson
by Telephone.
GOV. WHITMAN HOTLY
DENIES THE HEPOKT
Cliiiinnan Charges Anyhow
and 31 ay Fight Appoint
ment in Senate.
Fenutnr George P. Thompson and
mnnbers nf tils legislative roinmltteo
wont tn Albnny Inst nlfilit, much cha
grined .ind making- no attempt to wh
im! their Indignation over tlio twist
flven to tho Investigation of the Public
Service Commission by the prompt nc
tipt.inre by Gov. Whitman of Commis
sioner Wood's reKli;natloti, the Immediate
appointment of his successor und the
iiifoiinatlon that I.i'iiUH'l 12. Qulgg had
mi", only taken tho Wood resignation to
Albany but also had recommended the
ruining of Henry V. Hodge.
The mentioning of Mr. Qulgg's name
In connection with tho resignation of
i"oititVKliincr Wood added to tho Ire of
Bi n.it ir Thompson, already mounting
I oily ag.i.tist the GoVcrnor for accepting
t ,e resignation Just when the committee
las about to tile charges. He declared
tn.it lin would go before the Senate to
i.iy .m.l demand an Investigation of Mr.
tiuigg s alleged iintlvltle relative to the
I .iblic Service .ommlilon and would
cp!i.-e to the end tho approvaj of Mr.
II hIkc's mune If the latter appeared to
have been selected at the suggestion of
tin1 f.imoiiH "accelerator."
In Albany last night, however, friends
of the Governor sioffcd at the Idea of
(julgg having had anything to do with
tne Wood resignation or the Hodge up
puinttnent. fin. U'bltlilHii ImllKliniit.
Gov. Whitman was ludleuant and
lid
"Any statement that Qulzg had any
thing to do with It la a falsehood. I
have not talked with Uulgg about It
t all. I never have discussed the Pub
llf Service Inquiry with Qulgg one way
or another."
Gov. Whitmans alleged opposition to
any changes In the Public Service Com
mission law also brought n statement
from Senator Thompson in which he
took Issuo with the Governor The net
result of tho proceeding at Albany and
tho effect on the Investigating commit
tee was a determination by Senator
Thompson to go right on with his In
Vitry He has railed the next meeting
for Friday and thf Indlcitlons are that
Laving done all that can be done with
tre members lie now Intends t" examine
lii'o 'lie engineering, legal and sccre
Ur jl department of thf commlhslon.
Tin. acceptance of Commissioner
v ooili resignation by Gov. Whitman
i .! prevent the Thompson eonimlt-
'torn sending to Albany Its charges
against the Commissioner. They were
ii w yesterda). When they reach the
tii'fen.or they will hae attached a let-
i-h ng lilm to call certain charges
to hi' .ii'etitlon of the District Attorney
Th ii.is already been done as a matter
ef ' . i li.strlct Attorney Perkins having
i't I several witnesses before the
'I .I'iry All thf witnesses h.ivo been
um II.IUI...1 to uppear at the District At
!i .ei s office again to-day.
I regal d the case as very Important."
i District Attorney Swann.
' i It was suggested that Mr. Per
1 id Intimated that there might not
I- k.iI corroboration of the story told
I. s .Iney t! Johnson he said:
ii ly disagree with Mr. Perkins
tbuui that."
Undue lujiorrs lliililiiib.
'' 1 lodge, named by the Governor as
C i -sioner Wool's successor, np
f ..I '.i bo entirely Indifferent to nil
Vibbub that his appointment had
.".l lie said that he didn't know
'' '"' 'i.Ql'Igg; had never even met
b i that he did know (Jov. Whlt
i , h.ul known him well for many
'") anil had' often talked over with
I' the pie,, of Having an engineer as
' e be i jif the Public Service f "6m
i "ion He had if eel veil no official no-
of his aiipolntnifiit. he said, hut he
1 i that It was coming.
Th letter of Commissioner Wood re
' g -g from the commission and the
' or's reply were made public yes
v at the officii of John It. Stanch
f' -tinsel for Woi si. .1. P. Archibald,
. to Commissioner Wood, went
'n VI,.., y on Monday night with a let-
ui ii.iseil to be the letr of reslgna-
but lnformatinn came to the
""' ii"oii I'liimnlttee jfsterday that the
' "f I eslgnatloii was carried to Al-
t bv Mr. qulgg last Friday and that
"' .iiiiiiiinlcition of Momla was
' a message urging the fSovernor
' " eierato tho iicciiptniice, of Wood's
r'"ir .iiuin. The letter of resignation
r.i 4
Meientth 1 present to you my reslg
r .i Public Service t!ommlssioner
' ' First district. This ntllee came
' without solicitation. Accepting
I' 1 .ive earnestly endeavored to pei
' tne duties linimsed upon mo In
1 iiiiln- Interest. My duty Ins called
ns to vote on the letting of con-
Invohing the expenditure of
hi t nims of money. In coiibequence
' Ins been engendered between
r . bidders greit bitterness of feel
" i much personal animosity. This
' - ied to most Insistent Importunity
' . v vote might aid sonic one In
b ' -' .is against another.
.' merits hae been made against
' 1 'iiinUslon iih a body which can
1 i otherwise than utterly bai-eless,
-iiiu.it loriM have been suggested
" ' me which aie utterly false, rc
' ' il ami inallcloiis. Their efTe,i!t has
prodiiru clamor against mn to
h " extent tli.it I must recognize,
' is i know I am of uuj J tint I -'
'i "f It, the fact that my useful
B m this otllcn Is gravely Impaired.
v nfi illicitly nor Indirectly have I
' isUi d or sought to obtain other
" .u I for my nlllclal acts than the re-
" ' t my fellow citl7ns and tli sal
1 1 a' the state provides.
' .ie tli. i Thompsun committee,
hiwfi i tiiiiR i,lVe been Intimation
W w 'iiessei, no one of whom would
Continued on Lent Page,
GASOLENE "PLOT" ATTACKED.
HIIU Offered In C'oiiRrrsa o Invea
tlirnte (hr Xltnntlon.
Wasiiinuton, Jan. 4. The recent
ndviuices In tho prices of gasolene were
formally brought to the attention of tho
Houso to-day by resolutions ofTered by
Jteprcscntntivcs Hteenerson of Mlnno
ota and Fuller of Illinois.
Tho Hteenerson resolution calls on
the Attorney-Ueneral to Inform the
House whether the Increases In the
prlco of gasolene arc due to nny com
bination or combinations In restraint
of trade, and If so whether he has taken
any action to prosecute the offenders.
If tho Atlorney-dencral has not Insti
tuted prosecutions as a result of the
present prices of gasolene Mr. Bteener
eon would have him Inform the House
why he has failed to do so.
The Fuller resolution directs Uie
House Committee on Interstate and
l orelgn Commerce to "Investigate the
cause of the sudden und unprecedented
rise In the price of gasolene and to
make Inquiries tn ascertain whether
any conspiracy exists and whether nny
law has been violated In connection
with the matter and to report Its find
ings and conclusions Vit an early date."
MAYOR'S SECRETARY
RISES FAST AS SOLDIER
Kousseuu Needs Only Three
Weeks to (Jo From Civil
Life o Stnff Job.
Theodore Rousseau, secretary to Mayor
Mltchel, admitted modestly yesterday
that he has taken up the profession of
arms and Is already a member of the
stafT of Brig.-Oen. George 11. Dyer, First
llrlgadc, N. CI. N. Y. Major Allan Iteg.tn
of division headquarters says that there
Is as yet on tile no record of this ad
vancement of the Mayor's secretary, hut
Mr. Housseau himself admits It.
Gen. Dyer, for some reason, would not
discuss the naming of I.leut. Ilousseau
to his staff, but the young Lieutenant
talked It over with his friends yester
day. It appears front his account that
ho tried an examination conducted by
the division board. Mr. Ilousseau wasn't
sure whether he competed with anybody
or not, but he was sure that Col. Iouu
D. Cor.ley plucked him right out of civil
life and madehlm a soldier, and so
First Lieut. Theodore Rousseau was as
signed to Company J, Sixty-ninth Ilegl
ment. Accounts differ an to Just how long
ho was a Firs: Lieutenant of Company
J, The Lieutenant himself says that he
hasn't any uniform yet. so It couldn't
have been very long. From other sources
It was learned that on December 2 notice
of hta approval as having passed the
examinations was tiled and that on De
cember 9 he was assigned to Companv
J. The understanding around City Hail
Is that one day .ifier beitu- assigned to
Company J the young Lieutenant was
tlevuleil to Gen. Dyer's start.
NOT A CANDIDATE. SAYS T. B.
Innlala Ills Xnine lie Kept Off I'M.
mnr llullots.
Col. Itoosevelt will not permit his
niune to appear on the ballots In anj of
the Stales where delegates to the na
tional conventions air chosen at the
primaries. This seemed to be settled
definitely .esterday when the Colonel
sent a letter to Secretary of State,
Vnugii.in at Linslng, Mich., asking him
to see that his name did not appear as a
j candidate on the balloi of any party.
After this letter was sent out fiom
. Ovster H.iv the II t, limit .,. II, MM t U u ... i.l..
, that the Colonel would not be a candi
date at the convention of any party, the
I'rogiesslve party not excepted. Tile let- i
kt iu .nr. augnan was sent in resjionse .
to a message stating that the llepubll
cans and IMogresslves in .Michigan had
tiled enough names to nominate the Col
oriel. This decision on the pint of Col.
Itoosevelt Is not taken to mean that he .
will not go to Chicago.
SAYS BURLESON WILL RESIGN.
DiiIIii eapnprr llran Tlmt lip
Will II 11 n fur Srnnlnr.
Dallas. Jan, A. The Ttmea.lrrnUI
to-day prints u jeport which. It says,
comes from an authoritative source that
I'ostmaster-Gener.il llurleson will resign
his position on March 1 to tun for Sen
ator to succeed Charles A. Culberson.
Dallas friends of Mr. llurleson. ac
cording to the same authority, say that
Otto I'ranger, prevent Assistant I'ot-master-Gencr.Tj,
will succeed Mr. llurle
son as PostnnsteMSener.il. Mr llurle
son and Mr. I'raeger are both personal
friends of Col, V House.
806,127 lines gain in year 1915
1,976,194 lines gain in past four years
NEW YORK
The Evening Sun gained 806,127 lines of advertising in the
year 1915 as compared with 1914. This is a notable gain, as The
Evening Sun has made an advertising increase for each of the past
four years, since 1911. over the previous year a very remarkable
and unique record The Evening Sun being the only evening news
paper in New York to make consecutive advertising gains.
EVENING SUN
1015 Gain 806,127 agate lines
1914 Gain 381,698 agate lines
1913 Gain 641,965 agate lines
1912 Gain 146,406 agate lines
This gain is directly due to the splendid results 'advertisers get
from their advertisements in The Evening Sun. The Evening Sun
prints but little of what is technically known as exchange advertising,
and does not accept at all advertising on a basis of percentage.
The Morning Sun also had a prosperous year. In the twelve
months of 1915 The New York Sun gained 125,215 lines of adver
tising over the year 1914.
CIRCULATION
Sworn Circulation Staltmtnti to At FtJtral Coctrnmtn' for tlx monlAi tnJlnf
October. 1912- 99.170 October, 1914-122,763'
April. 1913-104,396 April. 1915-140,203
October. 1913-105.525 October, 1915-155.009
April. 1914-110.056 Present Over 170,000
The ml paid circulation of THE EVENING SUN
is note more than 170,000 Copies.
I "
GORE SAYS HUGHES
IS LIKELY TO RUN
Blind Oklahoma Senator Non
committal About Demo- I
cratlc Outlook. '
FOR SANK PREPAUKDNESS;
BJinfa One Term Plank May
Re Broken in Wilson's
Favor.
"t hear no dark horso neighing In the
Democratic paddock Just now." Thomas
Pryor Gore, the blind United State
Senator from Oklahoma, said yesterday,
a smile lighting up hli sightless face for
the moment, nt the Waldorf.
That was nbout all that Senator Gore
would say In nnewer to questions about
the coming political festivities at St.
lxiuls. As to what will happen about
the same time at Chicago Senator Oore
was more communicative. And when
asked concerning tho attitude of hie
own people on preparedness or his views
on submarino destructlvenoes and the
effect of the German eltuntlon at the
coming conventions Senator Gore was
always ready with replies.
The Senator arrived at the Wnldorf
esterday morning. When the visitor
entered Senator Gore's rooms yesterday
at dusk the Senator was fitting alone
In the centre of a big. brilliantly lighted
.lulu mom of the suite, his unseeing
eyes seeming to stare Into the for him
darkness that engulfed him.
'Whover defeats Itoosevelt will get
the Republican nomination at Chicago."
Senator Gore, Democrat, said promptly
when tho possibilities of the next ltepub
Until convention were btought up.
"Justice Hughcw Is, In nvy opinion, 'ho
most likely nominee at Chicago," he went
on. "Accept? Yes. 1 think Hughes will
accept. I don l wnni u uimrifiwu
I doubt the sincerity of Justice Hughes
In p.t statements that he would !-t
run for the Presidency; I like to take
a man's word for a thing, of course, and
I do. but I think Justice Hughes prob
ably will conclude that as he lm te
frained from seeking the nomination he
Is released from obligation to decline
an honor unsought by Wm.
Iluuhrs Arcriilnlilr o Holh.
"The Progressive piefer Hughes to
anv standpatter and the ctandpatters
prefer Hughes to Itoosevelt. Col. Iloose
velfs tecent Interview blacklisting the
other candidates will result. I lielleve.
In their forming n coalition against him.
As for dark homes at Chicago the dark
horse never thrives in Republican con
vention, where the mnjorlly rules, a
I. .1 l ll... tleiiUKTlltlo omelHliMH,
where the two-thirds vote holds forth.
After Hughes Btid Itoosevelt I fhould
say Iturton has next nest cnance.
The vast majority of the Progres
sives ure trekking or will trek la-k to
the Republican party fold. A few Pro
grcH!es, to whom Progresslvlsni Is a
principle, who arc not merely Infatuated
with the personality of Col. Itoosevelt.
will transfer their allegiance to the
Democratic party."
.Senator Gore was asked, following his
remark that he heard "no dark horse
neighing in the Democratic paildo.;k,'
about the effect of the one term plank
of the Italtlniore platform on Mr. Wil
son's candidacy for reelection.
"I suppose," he answered with an
other mnlle, "that the power hlch made,
that plank can break it. The Demo
cratic prospects for success next fail
lire. I think, satisfactory from this dis
tance. There are several factors, how
ever, the ls'havior of which I am not
able to speculate uhiii runs. There are
elements, for Instance, who ate dissat
isfied with the President's ol!ey In the
Kuropean and Mexican wars, and these
are now unknown quantities.
Hffti'tloii on Preparedness.
"A for preparedness problems the al
titude of the miimIIchI hyphenated citi
zens and the effii t on the coming nomi
nations of similar questions growing out
of the great war abroad,'. 1 should not
attempt to make any forecasts. As for
preparedness itself, on that subject I
think a reaction already has net In,
"There) are four classes clamoring for
preparedness ns the word is now under
stood. Plrst, there are the munition
manufacturers, who think that thrift
will follow armament ; secondly, there
Conflnierf on TMnf Vane
POPE SENDS PLEA
FOR CHURCH UNITY
Protestant Conference at War
den City Hears Pontiff's
Prayer.
WOULD PEACE IS SOUGHT ;
Applause Follows Reading,
Members of 20 Denom
inations Joining.
Oabdk.v Citt, L. I., Jan. 4. A letter
from Cardinal Onsparrl, Papal Secre
tary of State, expressing Pope llene
diet's hope that unity of faith and com
munion may at last prevail throfighou!
the world, created a gratifying Impres
sion to-day at the opening of the North
American Preparatory Conference for
the purpose of combining churches of
nil denominations.
The letter was regarded as Indicative
of closer relations between Catholics
nnd Protestants, although no Catholics
attended the conference, Cardlnul Gib
bons sending word that he was unable
to be present.
Cnrdlnal Gasparrl'e letter follows:
"Your project of an International con
vention of all who believe In Jesus ,
Christ as God and Saviour to accom
plish tho spceUy fulfilment or the final '
prncr of the lxiril. that all may be
one, I have. In obedience to your re
quest, submitted to the Most Pleased '
Father. 1 need not hero describe the '
affection lth which I saw the august
pontiff kindled for ou, for you well,
know that the plans of the Human
pontiffs, their cares and their labors
have always bevn specially directed to
the end that the sole und unique church
which Jesus Christ ordained and sancti
fied with His divine blood should be most
zealously guardei. and maintained.
whole, pure und ever abounding In loe,
and that it should Isith let Its light
rhine and opn wide Its door for all
who rejoice In the name of man and
who desire to gain holiness ujion earth
and eternal happiness In heaven,
Pope Is Pleased.
"The august jMintlff therefore was
pearil with your project of examining
in a sincere spirit and without preju
dice thv essential form of the onureh,
'or the Inner essence of the church,'
and he earnestly hopes that under the
sll of Its native beauty you may
settle all disputes and work with pros
perous issts- to the end that the mys-1
tlcal body of Christ be no longer suf
fered to U rent and torn, but that by'
harmony and cooperation of men's
minds, and likewise by the concord of
their wlll, unity of faith mid com
munion ma at last prevail throughout
the world of men.
"Thanking you. then, that you hae
thought well to request tho aid ami sup
port of the ltum.ui poutllT In expediting
jour worth!, prifjeot, his Holiness e
presses his earnest desire that the end
may answer jour expectation. He asks
the same of Christ Jesus with fervent
praxers. all the more because, with tho
olce of Christ Himself sounding before
and bidding him. he knows that he him
self, us the one to whom all men have
been glxen over to be fed. Is the source
and cause of the unity of the church."
Cardinal Gas-pun I also wrote In regard
to a request to publish lus letter.
"The august intlff therefore kindly
pi ruiits that copies of m letiers, which,!
thorn" i a faithful, are jet but a faint
portrait of the pontifical love, shall be
sent to all to whose welfare and peace1
jou believe they will contribute.
"It Is n pbasure to repeat the en
couragement that the aid and earnest
prajers of the Human pontiff will never
be lacking to any one who, having freed
himself from prejudiced opinions, with
a true and sincere will strives with all
his strength that the unity of faith and
fellowship Instituted by Christ and built
upon Peter may be reslored and that all
who are enrolled In the name of ("lirls
tiau may betake themselves to the bosom
of the one most loving Church, and may
be Joined and associated as members I
with Christ the head " I
Pliiiineil llefnre I he Wnr.
The Welti lte C II Anderson,!
Ulshcp of Chicago, said in mldrrsslrig the
eomeiitlnn and outlining its work that'
the question might well be lu-kcd would 1
not a united '.hurch havo prevented the'
war Hubert H. Gardiner, secretary of
the conference, stolen nun It was just
two dajs lieforc the war started that a
doputation w.is to have sailed to see the
I "ope tft talk unity of faith and com
munion, ,
The present meeting l the third at
tempt to arrange plant; for a rV con
ference looking toward church unity i
, throughout tho world. The late J. P.
'Morgan left SlOrt.ono for the further-1
ance of this work, and the Itev. Dr. W. '
T. Manning, rector of Trinity parish, 1
Is chairman nf the executive committee
of the Joint commission appointed to
arrange for a conference on f.ilt'i and
order.
The conference Is attended by leading
rtpresentatUes of twenty denominations.
Including the Protestant lOplscopal
Church, tho llaptlst. Congregational, Ills-,
clples of Christ, Lutheran, Methodist,
Moravian, Presbyterian, 1'nlti'd Presby
lerlnn, Prcsbyteiiau Reformed and tho
Society of Friends
.Strangely enough, though the confer
1 encn Is being held In the cathedral tow n
l of Hlshop llurgess, no notice win i
given to the Hlshop. It had been In- .
! correctly reported that the meeting
would be callisl at St. Paul's Cathedral
I Instead of the hotel. Dr. Maiming quickly
, paid n call Uhmi Hlshop llurgess soon
alter the meeting began.
TO CENSOR MAIL FROM U. S.
t llrlmln Watch All Postal Mat-
trr, Ilicoiiilnur mill OiiIkoIiik;,
Special Cnble Ieiatrh to Tux Sim,
IONPON. Jan. 4, In addition to the
eluborate censorship of all outgoing
mall, F.nsland has Instituted a complete
censorship of all Incoming malls, includ
ing newspapers. This means Unit all
correspondence between Great llrltaln
nnd America will be censored,
The mall alsiaril the American liner i
fit, Louis, which arrived on January 2, .
has not yet been delivered, The cor-1
reioiiderit of Tun Sun Ih Informed that
this delay U due to tho new system of
censorship. It W expected, however,
that within a short time such delay will 1
not exceed twenty-four hours, j
Tho rensou for this new development 1
Is not given, '
I
Delirious lleerfoot Farm Pannage, i
Thev cost more try them unit as wiiv
Mad ! th farm, Ssuthboroufh, Mast.
Adv.
TEUTONS FORCED TO
QUIT CZERNOWITZ
i
Ittissians Command Capital of
the Htikowina, Menacing
Their Lines.
MACKKXSEN FEAHS A TRAP
If Pushed Tnto Rumania His
Position Would Be. Like
Allies' at Salonica.
Sprtial Cn,lr DttMtch to Tint srx
l.oNtiON,.liur. t, Despatches from Pet
rograd report that the Austrian-, and
Germans have evacuated Czernowitr. as
a result of the Russian occupation of
the heights commanding the tit)-.
It Is Mated that the Russian successes
prevent the. Teutons from using the
Cirrnowitx-Zalescikl Railroad,
Z.tlescikl ts about twenty miles north
of Ciiernowltz, The moln line running
northwestward from Ciernowlts Is the
only other rallro.nl which can be used
In this section by the Teuton forces for
supply or retreat.
Czeniowltr. Is only eight miles from
the northernmost corner of Rumania.
From the llukowina capital to where the
Carpathians touch the Rumanian bonier
the distance Is nbout fifty miles. Only
If the Teutons were positively assured
against a. possible attack by Rumania
at a later stage of the new Russian of
fensive could they afford to retain their
lines on the Rumanian border.
In view of the uncertainty of Ru
mania's future attitude and repeated as
sertions that "a strong military' show
ing" on the part of the Russians might
Induce her to Join the Allies actively.
It Is not believed that Field Marshal von
Mackensen will risk being- pushed
against King Ferdinand's frontier, fur
the Russians with their apparently re
enforced und well equipped arnij" could
easily drle southward Id the Carpa
thian, and thus bottle up the Teutons.
Irr that event the Austrian and German
forces would be In the same position as
the Allies were In Macedonia; the)-would
have to accept what might be a decisive
hittle or retreat Into the neutral terri
tory of Rumania. That kingdom, how
ever. Is not In the same position toward
the Teutons as Greece was toward tho
Hnterite's troops, hut. on tho contrary-,
is generally conceded to be morally pro
Ally. The flghtlnr In tho nuknwina. particu
larly the Russian offensive there. Is.
however, absolutely Interdependent on
the developments on the northern part
of the battle line, and the Russian suc
cess In the south can be assured only by
an equally continued and successful of
fensive In Vollijnla, If the Czar's troops
fall to keep up their progress Irr the
north and allow the Germans to turn
from the defensive to the offensive
Rovnn, the one stronghold In the Volhy
nlan fortress triangle remaining to Rus
sla. will be menaced. Its capture, fol
lowed by a Teuton drive eastward, would
endanger the Russians In the same waj
as Russian progress In the llukowina
will endanger the Teutons.
The Austrian otllcial statement elves
a vivid Idea of the violent character of
tho fighting. It says :
The battle in Fast Gallcla Is still
going on. Russians continue their at
tempts to break through our lines,
but everywhere they were repulsed.
Near Toperauotz bitter hand to hand
lighting Is taking place, especially In
the destroyed trenches near Hegshaus.
east of Raranoze, where the Sixteenth
Infantry Regiment again distinguished
Itself. Russian attarks northeast nf
Okna and against the bridgehead at
I'scleczko and northeast of Iluczacz
failed.
Russian losses are appalling. In
ten kilometers of a district ?.30il dead
Russians were counted. Of several
Russian battalions, who, according to
their own reports, when engaged In
battle numbered 1,000, only 1.10 came
back.
The Czar, during a review yestordaj-,
addressed the Chevaliers of the Order
ol St George tho Russian military or
der conferred only for heroism In battle.
In the course of his speech the Czar
said:
"I will not conclude peace until we
have expelled the last enemy from our
territory, and I wilt conclude this jieace
only with the full ais-onl of our allies,
to whom we are bound rit by paper
treaties but by true friendship."
BAY STATE MAY TAX INCOMES.
'J.IMIO F.xemptlon, I Per Cent.
All F.arillnua.
Rostov, .Ian. 1 A reiKirt recommend
ing an income tax was tiled with the
legislature to-day by a ssHial commis
sion of taxation. Tills was in response
to a decisive popular vole favoring such
a constitutional amendment.
The suggestion of the commlFshm Is
for a law taxing Incomes not taxable
at the source, tflth certain exemptions,
nt per cent, and Incomes from profes.
slons, employments, trades and Ursine-,
at I'd per cent, this class also being
subject to certain exemptions. The com
mission figure that hardly one-seventh
of the four billion dollars of known
wealth In the State Is taxed.
Fumed Incomes above IS.ono, with
SSO0 additional exemption for a husband
or a wife, and S250 for each minor child,
will Is1 taxed under the promised liw
NEW HAVEN ROAD BEGS AID.
Appeiils to Oilier Lines foe Hiiulnes
In lielleve Freight ("onurat Ion.
HohtiO.', Jan. '. The New Haven Ra'l
road Is striving to relieve freight con
gestion and with that purpose In ew.
President Flllott lias telegraphed to
every railroad head east of the .Missis
sippi R'ver and north of the Potomac
River, trying to borrow locomotives. The
effort has been almost futile because
the railroads are all In about the same
fix.
Mr. Elliott has been able to lease only
three fniglit locomotives from the Lack
awannn Railroad, lie also has wiieil
Lord Sliaughnessy, president of the Ca
nadian Pacific, asking for help.
KERENS RUSHED TO HOSPITAL.
TaUen From Nt. I.iinla to .lohiin
Hopkins on Fast I'rulii.
Hai.timohk, Jan. 4. Richard 0. Kerens,
former Ambassador to Austria, ent red
Johns Hopkins Hospital to-day as a
patient after a hurried trip from his
home in St, Louis. He Is under the
direct care of Dr. Hugh II, Toting und
occupies a suite In the James Iluch.iuan
llriuly urologlcnl clinic.
KKAIIOARI) FLORIDA LTD. trie P. M.
from I'innu. Station. Quickest, finest train
tatouth vis shnrteM. moat nttroctlr rout.
Seaboard Air Line nr., H 14 Broadway, jtiv.
Conscription
in Commons;
Sir John Simon designs on
Eve of Historic Debate
in Parliament.
FAILURE OP DERBY
SCHEME ADMITTED
Over 1.000,000 Single 3leii
Among the "Slackers."
Id-port Shows.
tptriat Cable lietpattK to Tub Scs.
I.oNtON, Jan. 5 (Wednesday). The
"compulsory service" bill, designed to
change the military sjstem of Great
llrltaln from one of voluntary enlistment
to that of "modllled conscription," wilt
be introduced In the House of Commons
to-day by Premier Asqulth.
The mnlir feature of the bill will be
the emisonerlng of the army authorities
to call to the ilois everj' single mall
who fulled to offer himself for military
service under the Derby voluntary re
cruiting plan. It Is understood that no
peri.iltles will be prescribed, ns when
unattiwted single men arc called Into
the army the- will thereby be subject to
military' law.
Hitter opposition to the measure Is ex
pected, lmt It Is cnncesled that the Gov
irnment will lie able to forie the bill
through both the upper and lower houe.
Kisicli marking speeches are ex
pected to be delivered by Frontier As
qulth nnd lrd Kitchener In the lloue
of Commons and House of Ixirds, re
spectively. Whatever may be the fate of the own-pulsorj-
service bill It Is almost a cer
tainty that It will cause a radical reor
ganization If not the downfall of the
Asqulth Cabinet,
The Cabinet has already lost one nf
Ita members, the resignation of Sir John
Simon, Home Secretarj-, being officially
announced.
Neither Chancellor of the Exchequer
McKenna nor President Runclman of the
Hoard of Trade has yet followed tho
lead of Sir John Slnwn In resigning.
The sjlnts of sillcy will oh they raised
as to the size of the army and lalsir de
nials' of trade have not Is en settled by
the Cabinet. Then- lus been another
"wtOnement, and the Cabinet has not
been summoned fo: to-day.
Following a long Cabinet session on
conscription. Premier Asqulth made pub
lic In the House of Commons the resig
nation of Sir John Simon from the
portfolio of Secretary of State for Home
Affairs. Sir John Is opposed to conscrip
tion In any form.
llrenL Wns llxiieelrd.
The break In the coalition Cabinet over
the question of conscription has bem
predicted for ecveral days, and the
Premier's announcement of the Home
Secretarj's resignation was more In the
nature of a continuation than a surpnsv.
The Premier himself Is in a dlttii tilt posl
lion In face of the opristton from other
members of his Cabinet. Strong pres.
sure Is being brought to bear on him
from many sourcis not to yield the
points deiuaiule.l by Mr McKenna atnl
Mr. Runclman.
It Is probable that unless the compul
sion bill undergoes modifications other
resignations from the Cabinet will follow.
I.otd Derby's recruiting llgun-s, nlsiui
which tile conscription tight wages, were
made public In the form of a Parlla
mental) paper. They show that between
October 2 and December 15 1.15rt,iinn out
of 2,17?. 231 single men and .(,:.Z6
out of 2.S32,2in married men presented
themselves for service Tills brings out
the surprising feature that fi! per cent
o? the married men of military age In
the kingdom responded to the Oi.ll. as
iwnlnsit 53 Per cent nf the single men.
Tile published report comirms tho lesa
dsllnite previous refsirt that lord
Derby's recruiting scheme had failed.
Exempting 37S.071 single men In "pre
ferred positions" In the Government eery-Ice
there are still irl,liUi single men
of military age available for service.
It is probable that the Government bill
will ill these to the colors Immediately.
Premier Asqulth said that he would
ileal with the figures of the Derbj re
cruiting remilts when tho compulsion bill
is Introduced.
Finn llsi-ly Flulil.
Dealing with the situation created lie
the Introduction of the compulsory bill,
the Liberal group opposed to conscrip
tion has announced lis intention of di
viding against the Hist reading of the
bill or against the closure If It s pro
posal It Is not Isileved tliat t lie
Speaker will permit the closure to h"
Invoked In such circumstances. This
means at least two dajs debate on the
first rending Whips are reserving Frl
daj as a contingency in case the bill
Is not proceeded with by Thursday
Some Consen.itlvos are suggcstlne
that the bill go over to next week,
Imping to draw out tho debate toward
Hie end of the ii i, in 1 1 1 ill order lo bold
up until the last moment the bill to ex
tend the life of P.-iillamenl. if a gen
eral election Is to lie molded this bill
must be passed before January 30 The
Conservatives hope that the coutitij will
thus be plunged Into a general elect'. m
so that the Tor) Interests can appeal
to the electorate with the cry of "com
pulsion for the sl icker."
There will be a labor congress Thins
daj and the antl.ipatlon of some prom
inent labor leaders is that Arthut Hen
derson, the I'.i i liaitieriliit-y labor leader,
may get a majority of the labor oto lo
supHiit the Hal eminent. Vliniinus op
position to compulsion will :ii any r in'
be offered by tho Independent Lunar
p.. it. v.
II Is evident that ,-ip.n t fiom the fur
tunes of the bill there might be a
breakup of the Go eminent if there me
ruij more resignations. There Is the fur
ther possibility that some ambitions
Ministers In f.ivoi- of compulsion, among
whom Isird Cur.on and Llojd George
arc reckoned, nmj consider that it Is in
their Interest to seize on tile opposition
offered to the compulsory bill ns nil ex
cuse for n general election The belief Is
cherished In some quarters lli.it If the
cn of "compulsion for slackers" weie
raised by the Tories with the si.iqsirt of
Lloyd George they 'could get n kh.ikl
majority from the counlr
Lord Dei by In his lepnrt stales that
tunny men who would wlllmvly serve
fln.l thttn-ehes buried b) domestic or
financial business obligations, mid that
tills applied especially In the prol'i s-
hlonal and commercial men.
"The catiVMs shows very distinctly
that It Is not want of coinage whlua Is
Is Up To-day
Cabinet SpUl
TAW
,
tlJI?
Sir John Simon.
keeping those men back," I,ord Derby
sas In his rersiit, which continues:
"The chief dllllculty was the unrelia
bility of 'starting,' which was a distinct
hindrance to the canvass, especially In
lie rural and semi-rural areas, where un
fairness was caused by many men who
wrongly claimed that they had been
'starred.' The Inequality of the treat
ment of farmers was most detrimental."
Simultaneously with the publication of
these figures came a call to the colors
for all tho-e single men between the
ages of 23 and 2t who enlisted In the
Derby campaign.
Miners Stillch VleMS.
The (ouncll of the South Wales Miners
Federation, at a meeting last night,
adopted a resolution cxpres-tlng the view
that compulsion was preferable to de.
feat. The council 'ltd not, however, re
voke lt previous tesulutlon against con
scription. The Ulster Unionists, at a meeting
last night presided over by Sir lMward
Carson, declared the proposed exclusion
nf Ireland from compulsion Is "an Insult
and humiliation to the loyal and pa
triotic population."
The l),iu Mail s.is:
"The hostility of the Nationalists to
the compulsion bill continues to decrease
as the belief grows that Ireland will
be excluded."
The ,'i in'iii; .S(nr says:
"Tlio-e who know- Ireland have no Il
lusions In regard to the fatal conse
quences which would How from any at
tempt to coerce Irishmen. The thought
of bloodshed In Iteland appals us, 1.
the House of Commons look well before
It leaps"
Spesklng in the House of Commons
vesterd.iy of the lalr unrist Mr Lloyd
George said:
"The alleged latsir revolt. Is far more
a revolt against the official leaders of
trade unionism than against the Gov
ernment. For months on the Clyde, for
Instiino. there lias been a strnuj syn
dicalist movement trying to overthrow
the official leaders of trade unionism.
The difficulty or the Ministry of Mu
nitions on the Clyde arie-e from the fact
that there Is ,i powerful organization
working with great skill to overthrow
fhe re'ognlzed leaders of organized labor
there This movement does not repre
seni a majority of labor. It consists
onl.v of a powerful minority "
ASSAILS LLOYD GEORGE.
Labor Member In House Calls On
Minister to Iteslun.
Speri'if ''able he, pitch to The Srv
1iNiKiN. Jan I -In the course of n
dls.'U."siiin in the House of Commons to
day regarding the supresslon of the Glas
gow l.ilsir organ. Foncuni, Minister of
Munitions Lloyd Georae was assailed by
Robert L. Southwaite, Lalsir member
from Henley, who "lioule.l :
"Let the Minister of Munitions re
sign !" , i
Foi'iennf was suppressed. It Is re-,
ported. liMiise It published comments
on the recent speech of Llovd George lie-
fore a meeting of labor representatives
In Glasgow In which he nesertcd that
I'nclaiiil faces defeat In the war unless
labor does Its share.
SAYS KAISER'S POWER
OF SPEECH IS GONE
1'iiris ".Miitin"' Hcrlfirps. Km
pprnr Surely lln ('.'iin'iT
nf Throiif.
I'viiis. Jan 1 The .Wflffn detiaies. in
spite of ilen.als. that the German Fin
peror i- siilTirlng from cancer of the
throat and Is no longi r able to speak.
The Matin s:iv - .
"In I'ebiiniiv. PHI, the doi'tci were
considering whether It was necessary to
remove the entire larynx In order to
Mi) the progiess of the disease That
i .used the qinstion as lo whether the
Hinpeioi would be able to speak If
such mi operation wire pei formed The
leading specialists, of every capital In
Hurope were loiisiilieil. It was learned
that an eminent surgeon of Purls had,
by iiiici'ting an aiiilbial larynx and .1
breathing nil pening into the trachea,
lestoied the powei of speech to can- '
(emus patients who had liuileigone total
ablation of the alTcctnl organs.
"This doctor, whose name the lndii
withholds foi icnsons of piofesson i
etiquette, was asl.nl lo go to Iteiiln b
the German Ambassador He wns olTeieil
I no. in. n francs i vjn.onil) and all his ex
penses, and was requested tn bring nith
lilm a patient who li.nl I n llttt-i) with
the apparatus, so tint the llmpernr
might see If lie was able to speak.
"Meanwhile us a result of a minor
operation with a bisloiii.v and a few
weeks' absolute rest, the Ihnpeior's con
dition Inipioved, as Is often tile case
In this disease, the pmgros of which
Is Inipl.i. able but slow. It Is another
operation of this kind which has Just
been peifoi Hied Hut it Is onl.v pallia-'
live The German Kmporur must either
make up his mill. I lo compl le lemovnl
of tile l.'U'MIx i" be slltleil b the
ci on I h
"iiils explains wil) Hie I'.inpeior went
neither to Warsaw, Constantinople, nor j
Rrussels " I
I f
5. -.atJaBBBBaK ,
WILSON DEFERS
AGTIONjAWAITS
PERSIA PROOFS
Declares Situation Grave
Wants Congress lo Avoid
Intemperate Talk.
STAND OX AtiMAMKXT
XOT YET Dl'iTEtiMIXED
j Americans May tie. Warned
Xot to Go on Liners
Carrying Guns.
r.v.VfiTrrv thim mi attp
...... V- . .
DISCUSSI0X LIKELY
3rore Affidavits to -Show
Vessel Was Torpedoed
Are Sought.
r
VON T1KPITZ CONFERS
WITH THE KAISER
f penal Cable He flitch to Til it Sf",
IlKiiLDt, via Amsterdam, Jan. 4.
Grand Admiral von Tlrpltz con
ferred with the Kaiser to-day. It
Is believed the discussion dealt, with
the sinking of the P. U O. liner Per
slit In tho Mediterranean.
The German press lias been for
bidden to print nny comment on
the sinking of the Persia.
Amlmssador Gerard has asked
the Foreign Office In behalf of the
United States Government to In
form him of the nationality of the
submarine which sank the Persia.
Wsi!inotos', Jan. 4. Two uncer
tainties apriear fo tnnd In the way of
an Immediate climax In the situation
caused by the lati-st subniatlne activ
ity. These uncertainties are
First Whether the United States
Government can prove on evidence of
fact that the Itritlsh liner Persia wm
mink by a submarine and can tlx the
nationality of the undersea boat.
Second Whether this Government
on the b.isls of International law- can
contend that the passenger liner,
armed for defence, is entitled to Im
munity from attack without warning.
Until the American Government Is cer
tain of Its ground on th.e two point
Its final position cannot be determined
either In leganl to a demand for nslresn
In the case of the Persia or as to tho
future twllcy of the Unlteil Statm on
the entire submarine controversy.
Only two additional despatches relat
ing to the nttiiok on the Persia had
been received up to a late hour to-night.
The trt was from Consul-General Skin
ner at I-ondon and stated that in the
list of survivors published hv the Hrlt
Ish Admiralty the name of Consul Ma
Neely did not appear, all hough that of
Charles H. Grant of llosti.n, the only
other American known to have In en on
board, did.
More Altldnslla s,M,u,,
The second desp.it, h was from Con
sul Kehlingir at Malta, a paraphrase of
which follows .
"Hleven survivoisiif the Persia landed
at Malta .lainiarv 3, in. lulling Lord
Montagu. Seven of the ludl.t'i un 'ii'iers
of the crew weie p eked up it.i't u
a damaged llfebn.it by the Ch.nes.
steamer Hlug I'rinw All s.iv the I'ers.i
was torpedoed without watn.ng '
Immediate!) upon te. .ivng th'- des
p.ltrh Secretary Lirsng il'ie.liil 'hat
a cablegram be -cut to fonsnt ie.!',ccr
requesting that l,e o'o.iiii .ifllilavit" from
all these survivois as to whit e.n h ac
tually saw to convince bun th it the
ship WHS torpedoed ll Ih. i 'deliee
thus far in the hands of t'.e 1 'epai ftu i
on Ihls point, am! fiat n-.l swot-. i,
was the statement of the se.'oii.l ,,r!
Hromley, of the Persia, that lie i.iw I
wake of a torpedo. nil sinii n .lei.e
bv Itself, official are ini .Hied to be
lleve. Is of doubtful value
Hvcrv Indication to-d.iv pointed fo the
likelihood that the use nf the p, sn
will drift into the leilui of illp'o.n.ii
discussion The on re t'.-n-i lti.il the
United States h,i- not et m.i.te up "i
niind as to how it will si mil on I '
question of iiiniiiiiiltv for niei linm -
sels which are ii'ineil with guns, seem
to indicate that the snlip-. i Is ileb.nai.ie
and that this Government ,,iniiot de
cllne lo enter Into a iliploniatli di'i ns
sum If Austria or anv ol ier o' lb
U'ltral I'owirs i esponsihl,. for tie
tack on the Persia -i.ks lo r.ili D m
question
Nrii s,,,l, murine Problem.
Slate Depru tiiient ot'l .i,is nil-nil'i
ilav Hint t'ie miestioii was a n."
In the
siibtiiaiiin colli rovei sv I- u
added
that the ni'e" which i'.e I n
Slt.iles iolot.li.il III til, liel'illMl.ll cl
ival, ill will' 'l tile fght of in. i' h ii li.
to cart-v a limited number of small u
for defensive pntpoes w is ronei -s
had heel adopted before the snliii M'
campaign h.nl dev, loped n I w "
c iinililol'ing sub'tini Ine aft l is
Willie It was iiuiile clear Hi.','
Government has not t decided wlnn
or not
It was
It will statu! bv thoic e.ulv tn
'iitMi.ir, nt Hint ibis oiiest ....
the right
f n incM hantuiitu In un.' I
IISSUIIII
I n lil. ice of (list imtioi I in.e
the nreseul sliuiiiiini and that tin
tlenient of 11 I- l.I.elv lo lead ImH i
diplomatic i-in-i-i-pomlencc
In so far ns Ihe i c-e of the Prr-lf,
open lo ilist'ii-"- on lo jusi n.. -Illy
licutetiess of lb, fin. i'". i i 'tit, .1
Nntvvithst.iiuPi.tr 'In ..it,
which elst ill tin nil" .U of ' 11 ii .j
otlli Ull.-. 1'r s de"' ' "' 1 ' I'
pilbb. 0 .' li" i - ' " lit', m
no unnci -saiy ilel.n . .1. .
Oovemment' .on'-c r .. .
Tlire au ir.ii" ' s vi . i
k . i i i
4kv.V 'I v
: - i : . : , ill I " . .
i
