'ft
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average copper price
week ending Dec. 29.
2-27.
TOOT
I
ON A Fair.
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 189.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, JANUARY 5, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
mwmt
mmim
PART OF LOAF
OR 101 IS
SHERIFF'S
PORTION
Henry Wheeler, in Interview,
Explains Some of the Diffi
culties Which Beset Offi
cers in Enforcing Dry Law.
INFERS PEOPLE DO NOT
REGARD IT AS CRLME
Declares, in His Opinion, Law
Has Resulted in Reduction
of His Office Expenses $7,
000 in the Year 1915.
"Bootlegging as she Is done," might
have been the subject of an injerview,
received yesterday morning from Sher
iff Harry Wheeler. That official, in
whose hands the kind and indulgent
people of the state placed the en-1
forcement of the prohibition amend
ment, has found his hands tied
with those of other officials of Cochise
county and has had to take what
ever measure of eliminating the traf
fic the conditions have premittea". '
"I read the Review's article, this
morning, entitled 'Two Views of Dry
Law3 Possible in City' and I will cor
roborate a large proportion of the
story. Moreover, I am of the opinion
the data was fairly handled and came
to the point," was one of the offlciarr
statements.
"The sheriff of this county," con
tinued Wheeler, "has his hands tied
in a number of instances. In the
first place the amendment Is faulty.
In the second place the people ' of- the
county are not with the officers in tnejrnitPd states through the accident of
enforcement 01 tne law.
"The reason why we, the law en
forcement " officers of Cochise county,
succeed in keeping down robbery,
murder, arson, and other felonies Is
because the people believe such of
fenses to be crimes. From ninety-
five to. ninety-eight per cent, or even,1
a larger proportion of the population
are against such crimes. When a
business man, a professional man or
a laboring man. knows of a crime
having been committed, or about to
be committed, he will notify the of-
Ccers. He will not be afraid to gojcan hope t0 hold Jn the commercial
on the witness stand and tell all he
knows. He wants to see the law up-i concIusion of peace only by tne most
held. As single unil .of the county's !far.sipnted coniniercial preparedness,
electorate he demands that the lawi K1 -..i .
be upheld and will give his whole
souled and unsolicited aid to see that
it is upheld. But what is the condi
tion when the officers of the county
make conscientious1 efforts to catch
the vendor of liquors?
"During the twelve months, com
nrisine the vear of 1915. the sheriff's
office did not have the testimony oftrade- has hitherto been done through
a single non-official citizen of the j -naon. uunng the last hundred years
county in the prosecution of any 0fiLondon haR been the world's financial
its bootlegging cases. There were amarket. She has held her position not
few instances in which the office was I because of prestige merely, but be
told by some responsible party that cause the nations of the world needed
whiskey was being. sold by a certain an international clearing house and
person or persons. It was then up to i London supplied that. At the same
us to secure the testimony, or in short, j time London became the clearing
to catch the vendor in the act of mak-j house chiefly because she supplied a
ing a sale. It roust be obvious to the; large part of the capital needed for
sensible person that officers, known public improvements and large private
in their respective communities, and 'enterprises.
especially to the bootlegger (who 'Tbe United States never has taken
makes it his particular business to;any large part in financing foreign
'know the law enforcer) has a dis-i trails because of the comparatively
distinctly small chance of getting smajj part 0f that business carried on
sufficient evidence to convict. Unless jhere and because 'also of the unfamil
such evidence is secured, the office , larity of manv o our bankers with the
is wasting the money 'of the county. !methods of international finance. Nor
"The court of the county is receiv-!bs ,he Unitea States taken any large
ing considerable censure because of pgrt ,n SUpp,ytnj? capitai t0 other coun
the alleged light sentences imposed. LjefL 0 account of more profitable
This is neither deserved nor fair. investment8 at home we have chosen
"A careful perusal of the dockets. jnvegt here mher than abroad
during the past year will disclose Th,R hag been true becaU8e Qf our
mat nut lour jury raws rases ui
bootlegging resulted in ronvictton
for the county. On the other hand
forty per' cent of the cases before the i
court, trom a criminal standpoint
were liauor cases. The reason for
this la nnita nhvlnlli
"Should the court sentence the'of forelKn business done through New
bootleggers to the maximum it would iYork ls continuously Increasing and
soon become apparent to the other 'N York banks are W1 Priding
trafficers that they had better fight 'facilities for Americans who wish td
than plead guilty. In a great many.eyport. Dollar Exchange, a thing prac
instances the evidence was lnsufficl-jU""" unheard of prior to this year,
ent to convict before a Cochise coun-,'" assuming constantly enlarging Im
ty juryand the law officers had toiPortance In the financial world and is
take a part of a loaf rather than none, (rapidly becoming popular as a means
Should the court proceed to sentence! of meeting international obligations."
the bootlegeers to the maximum, in j Two provisions in the Federal Re
other words, the bootleggers would .serve Act. the report says, have been
fight and in that case the jury, which, of material assistance to the foreign
is made up of the average citizen, j trade. One is the introduction of the
would not consider the offense of suf- use of acceptance and tbe other per-(C-atinued
en Page Eight) ' (C'eBtinued on Page Six.)
Plan Afoot Would
Purchase Part
of Mexico .
ArizonUns Hope to Secure
Co-operation of California
for Project to Buy Land at
Mouth of the Colorado.
PHOENIX, Jan. 4 A move
ment wa launched by the vari
ous commercial organizations of
the state to secure the annexation,
virtually by purchase, of suffici
ent land from Mexico to extend
the boundary, of Arizona and
California to the Gulf of Califor
nia, has been furthered by Gover
nor Hunt who announced he had
written to Governor Johnson to
California asking the co-operation
of that state. '
An offer, on the port of the
United States, to cancel all in
demnity claims for the Ibis of
life and damage to property dur
ing the Mexican revolutions in re
turn for this land is the plan of
the leaders of the movement.
It has been pointed out, by
those interested in the plan, that
such an annexation of territory
would give Arizona a port on the
Gulf of California, and also bring
under American control the mouth
of the Colorado River and the
Imperial valley irrigation system.,
WAR FORCES THE
II. S. IIP III
Country, Through European
Conflict, Enjoys Top Posi
tion. Can Maintain it Only
by Farsighted Methods. -
. V. . . J .
WASHINGTON, Jab. t. Iow the
a world war has moved from its place ;
as a commercially provincial and sec
ondary power o the rank of first im-
Ipr ri.'in'v .11110..:; Ibe rtal nations of
ithe world economically, industrially
land financially is told in detail in the
first annual report of Dr. Edward E.
Pratt. chief of thf f oreign and Domes
tic Cnmr.if-rce BtiTau of the Depart
ment of Commeu-e.
What the country has gained tem
porarily through the fortunes of the
European conflict, says the report, it
struggle that will be resumed at the
A " yj giatc j'ivuicuiii lave unTciuyuicui
and maintenance o foreign trade. The
first is declared to be that of finance
and the second that o( training men
for the work.
"The financing of our foreign trade,"
it says, "and in fact by far the larger
part of the financing of the world's
position as a debtor nation, but prob
ably also to a considerate degree be-
cause of a 'mental debtor-nation atti
tude' on the part of our financiers.
i "On account of the war this situa-
'tion is rapidly changing. The volume
w
CZERNOWITZi
SEIZEO Bf !
RUSSIANS
Havas Carrespondent Claims
the Slavs Now Dominate;
- All of the Commanding Po
sitions About the District
SEIZURE OF CONSULAR
OFFICERS IS REPRISAL
Emperor Wilhelm Must Lose
Speech, According to Paris,
or be Gradually Stifled to
Death by Cancer in Throat.
LONDON, Jan. 4. The Havas
Petrograd correspondent announc
es that the. Austrians evacuated
Czernowitz . The Russians seized
all the heights dominating the
town.- '
ARRESTS IN REPRISAL
PARIS, Jan. 4. The minister of the
interior announces the consuls of the )
Teutonic allies, arrested at Saloniki,
will be brought to Marseilles and from
there conducted to the Swiss frontier.
The ministry further announced. In re
prisal for the arrest. By the Bulgarian
authorities of the French vice consul
and Charge d'Affnirs at Sofia, and the
seizure of the archives of the legation.
the government caused th arrest of j
the Bulgarian official in charge of the
archives at the Bulgarian legation in
Paris.
GREEK NOTE IS SHARP
PARIS, Jan. 4. The Petit Parisian
declares the note of the Greek minis
ter to France was hiinded to Premier
Briand, 'protesting tb arrost of Ger
man or other consuls at Salor.iki as a
violation of Greece's neutrality, was
couched in much sharper terms than
the Greek complaints to Berlin and Vi
enna regarding the Teutonic aerial
raid on Saloniki. ,
CANCER OF THE THROAT
PARIS. Jan. 4. The Matin affirms
notwithstanding denials, that the Ger
iran Emperor is suffering from cancer
of the throat. He is unable to speak.
The Matin says: "In February, 1911
doctors considered whether It was
necessary to remove his entire larynx t government yards and docks, concern
in order to stop the process of the dis-j Ing which Rear Admiral Stanford,
ease. They raised the question wheth-j tbiet of the Bureau of Yards and
er the Emperor would be able to speak j
if such an operation was performed.
Leading specialists in every capital of
Europe were consulted. Meanwhile,
with a minor operation and 'a few
weeks of absolute rest, his condition
improved. It is another operation of
this kind which has just been perform
ed. But it is only palliative. The Em
peror must decide either upon a com
plete removal of the larynx of be sti
fled by the growth."
SUPPORTS AMENDMENTS
LONDON. Jan. 4. Supporting in the
House' of Commons the amendments
which the Amalgamated Society of En
gineers suggested to the munitions bill
Lloyd George characterized the bill as
the only alternative to military disci
pline. "The alleged labor revolt." Lloyd
George said., "Is far more of a revolt
against the official leaders of trade
unionism than against the government.
The difficulties of the Ministry of Mu
nitions on .the Clyde arose from the
f.tct there were powerful organizations
working, to overthrow the recognized
leaders of organized labor there. The
movement doesn't include the majori
ty of labor. It consists only of a pow
erful minority."
OUTPOSTS CLASH
PARIS, Jan. 4. A large German sub
marine was convcytd In sections by
Main to Aidin and thence to Budrum
Bay, In Hie eastern Mediterranean, ac
cording to a L'Ovres Athens correspon
dent. German and Austrian bluejack
ets are putting the submarine togeth
er. A telegram from Ureal, Albania,
says 30,000 Bulgarians, after occupy
ing Elsassan from which the Serbs re
treated, and taking everything of mili
tary value, reached Lunia, twelve
miles from Tirana. The dispatch adds
that shots were exchanged Saturday
between the extreme outposts of the
Italian garrison at Durazzo. on the
Adriatic and Albanian Irreeulnrs com
manded by Bulgarlsn non-commissioned
officers.
"RUSSIANS FOILED BERLIN
BERLIN, Jan. 4. The desperate at
WOMEN OF TWO CONTINENTS TO SPREAD PAN-AMERICAN GOSPEL
I ' . ... . !, J 1 1 I 1 1 ' 1
1 V.. V : : ! . t 11 f.. - . Ill-': ' hi
bi t; x . S 'S.y-
Left to right: Mrs. Robert Lansing, Mrs. Percy V. Pennybacker and Mme. Eduardo Suarez.
The wives, sisters and daughters of the delegates to the second Pan-American Scientific Conjrress in Wash
ington have formed a woman's auxiliary and the opening- meetings have been filled with enthusiasm. Mrs.
Robert Lansincr, wife of the secretary of state; Mrs. Percy V. Pennybacker, president of the American Federa
tion of Women's Clubs; Mme. Eduardo Suarez, wife of the Chilean ambassador to the United States, and other
representative women from two continents have been named on a committee which will spread the gospel of
co-operation among- the women of the Americas
HUGS
S
Ml
START TODAY
House Naval Committee to
Take Up Consideration of
the Annual Appropriations
. for U. S. Yards and Docks.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 4. Hearings
on the administration's national de
fense program will begin tomorrow
when the House Naval Committee
takes up the annual appropriation
bill. The first subject for considera
tion will be 'the requirements of the
uoc Ks. win be examined.
Members of the committee think- it
will be several weeks before the con
struction of the program ' is reached.
The Senate Naval Committee also
will meet to consider Senator Till
man's bill for the erection of a gov
ernment armor plant. In the senate
Chairman Hitchcock, of the Philip
pines committee, will move that the
bill to enlarge Philippine self govern
ment be made unfinished business.
No opposition to tbe motion is anti
cipated but debate is expected to oc-'
cupy the senate several weeks.
While this matter is before the
senate the house will have for dis
cussion the farm bank bill reported
today Representative Lexander,
chairman of the Merchant Marine
committee, returned from Missouri
and resumed work on the government
ship purchase bill He plans to con
fer with McAdoo and the President
later In the week.
SOME OF THE FREAKS.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 Hundreds
of measures were introduced when
Congress reconvened. They included
bills or resolutions to extend the
thanks of congress to Henry toru
for his peace mission; to prevent the
clearance from American ports or
ships earning both passengers ano
munitions of war; to establish a Unit-
ed States commission for enduring
peace which might act as an inter-
meaiary Detween ine warrum umiuiis,
to ask the President for the names
of disloyal naturalized citizens refer-
red to in the President's message to
Congress. All were referred to com-
mittees.
BIG OIL FIRE
BIRMINGHAM. Jnn. 4. Fire de-
stroyed the plant of the Texas Oil
Company. The loss Is $250,000. Four-
teen tanks of oil and gasoline contain-
Ing 20.000 gallons eacn were consume
I
tempts of the Russians to break
through the Austrian lines In Galida
are continuing, according to the offi
cial statement of the War Office, but
they are nowhere successful. The
Russians are declnred to have suffered
very heavy losses.
' .. i. .- II I I w" : ......
KERMEEN TO HANG.
PHOENIX. Jan. 4. At a
meeting of the State Board of
paroles and pardons, held yes
terday afternoon at Florence,
the body re f lined to take any ac
tion in tbe sentence of 'W. J.
Kermeeh, of Cochise county,
who ia sentenced to be bung on
Friday. . This seals tbe fate of
the murderer as the courts have
already acted upon the appeal in '
his case and the sanity proceed
ings which were lately brought
before the superior court.
FIRST LADV
T'i IT D
Mrs. WuSOn, Upon Keturn
from Honeymoon, Prepares
for a Brillian Social Season
During the Spring.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 Mrs. Wood
row Wilson took up her duties as mis-
tress of the White House. Soon after
hpr arrivaI with the Dresldent from
their honeymoon at Hot Springs, she
I SOCIAL
PLANS
was busy with plans for the brilliant rr.n. .roup. ... , easy wn pros,pm of opp08,.
social season htat opens Friday night, out of Chihuahua City and Juare Uo aUack lhe genate d
with the Pan-American reception in westward along the edge of the Guer- nlinistration p,,iU.y were relieved
the Blue room. rero district. I when the senate adjourned, ten roin-
The State Department's llsU divld-! According to the advices Carranza ute8 arter convening to respect to the
Ing the foreign diplomats between two troops occupy the garrison of every I memory of the late Justice Lamar. The
diplomatic dinners that are to be giv-! station along tbe railroad for the pur-1 house showed no uneasiness,
en this year because of tbe European pose of preserving communications. Aj Indications of the administration's
war, were sent to the White House daylight daily train service has been intentions to proceed cautiously was
during the day. It will be gone over established between Jnaret and Mexl- seen in the indefinite postponement
carefully by the president and Mrs. (,ity jt js expected tomorrow will I of tomorrow's meeting of the senate
Wilson before it is made public or any wuneag the beginning of a new exodus ! foreign relation's committee, where
invitations are issued. Lj MPXcan exiles from El Paso to!,n subject would have been discuss-
The task of determining to which j Juarel ta Bp C)am8 on property in 1 ed- ol ,h determination to be
of the dinners the representatives . deliberate, officials say there is no in-
of -eutrai eovernments will be
nvtedt hlch for the time presentd aJ
dirTicuIt problem, was solved by desig-
atIn th(,m alternately, from the offl-
cial dipiomatic list. Neutrals under
pian wm be divided equally be-.
tween the dinners which the represent
tatives 01 tne teutonic ana mose 01
the Entente allies will be present. One
diplomatic dinner will be January 11,
the other will be on January 21.
CROWDS PACK COURT.
MINNEAPOLIS. January 4-1 rowds
packed the corridors around tne court
where Frederick Price, the business
w.-0. meXr
dor of h s lfe. ho was a member
- i ivnDimV T Q Til 1 1T
- -y-"-
Charles Kcchlson, the chief witness
r..m. . V. n e n I A I,a w a a anvtnnl t rt
testify and repeated . story he told Precarious condition,
after his arrest on the join murder In- The d.arnosis. upon which th. oo
dictment. He charged Price with nation was performed, was ot reveal
throwing his wife off the face if a although tbe opinion by consulting
cliff and striking her head on - cock physlrians indicated that he is suffer
for the purpose of Inheriting her for- Ing'from concer of tbe gall bladder' vices' or a trained nurse, insisting up
tune and possibly a hardening of the liver. 'en the attendance of Mrs. Huerta.
ilEU'flES
HUMS
SLOWLY
i
A. S. & R Buys Railroad case lies the continued destruction of
Equipment. Carranza Sol-j 8nip8 afte' the Teutons had given as
j1 rc ... . f w-n U surance that passenger ships would
diers Still After Villa. Hu- nol be attacked unwarned. This phase
eita at Point of Death. ' f tl' situation rather than the Per-
j ia case may become the ground of
WASHINGTON. Jan. 4. State De- tlie nM move. i
I Tl. .lnu,B A; ... KI. A-
Ipartment dispatches indicated a re-
. r r
sumption of mining activities in Mexi-jCf a statement through Secretary Tu
co on a broad scale. The American ! multy promising the country action
Smelting and Refining Company of j f ! " the ffl ' 'h Pe''
bia disaster are learned. The pre&i
Mexico bas pnrchased ten engines and j dent tnen dir,cted Secretary of State
165 cars, the necessary equipment to' Iinsing to gather more information
provide its own trains. It is prepar-' trom the Persia survivors through the
ins 10 oprr.- I --. -
possible to full capacity.
Department officials believe this will
Ferve to facilitate the resumption , of
'mining activities generally, thus ma -
I terially assisting the restoration 0t nor
mat conditions.
STILL AFTER VILLA ' ,
EL PASO. Jan. 4. Despite state
ments by Carranza military chieftains
that no attempt would be made to pur- j
ue Villa and his trooDs In the Guer -
rero district of southwestern Chihua-
hua. it became known through advices
to the Mexican Northwestern Railway!
" ' . , .
General Obregon left Torreon for
vfu-r.. 0 """ ' I
,0 '"nr advices. It Is said uoregon
wil1 remain week with Carranza.,
1 'hen the latter will go to Guadalajara. ;
It not announced whether Obregon ,
wm iiuiuiu;
!
HUERTA IMPROVED
i EL PASO. Jan. 4. General Vlvtorl-
igno Huerta is declared out or immeoi
ate danger by the physicians following
the tapping operation to relieve him
of fluld , his intestinal tract, due to;,
jaundice. The patient was much
an hig ten,terature and pulse
bwam "0TmM- Tnrf r,,on
noos w -h
i0 nae5thetics because of Huerta s
weakness. It Is conceded the pMienti
E 0
WILL ROLE
PERSIA
CASE
President Wilson Resumes Di
rect Control; His Action
Awaits Comprehensive Re
ports on Steamer's Sinking.
AUSTRIA BELIEVED TO
EXERCISE GOOD FAITH
Much Importance Attached to
Question Whether or Not
the Persia Used Guns; Teu
ton's Acts Hasten Action.'
WASHINGTON. Jan. 4. Tension ta
the new submarine crisis is undimin-
j ished with the return of the president
to assume personal etiarge ot tne sit
uation, but indications were that the
president would proceed carefully and
deliberately before committing the
United States to a next step in the al
ready strained Teutonic relations. The
state department expressed the hope
of an opportunity to settle the crisis
J amicably. He stated the .United
States believed that Austria's An
cona assurances were given in good
faith. He emphasized tbat before the
next move was made it must be es
tablished whether the Persia actually
was torpedoed and the submarine's
nationality.
Latest developments brought the
president and heads of congressional
and foreign relations committees Into
conference. This disclosed the fact
that they will be informed of coming
steps, ofwhich course the senators and
representatives expressed Uielr appro
rat. In the back ground :f the whole
, ".,," ' ,
I turn trt i ah i n rrtiw . u tn I sail n
consuls, i uiu uus iniorniauuii is ou-
. ,ained or un,ii Ambassador Penfield
i reports the reguU of hi3 inqulry in
, Austria, the situation will be at a
! 8tandstill. Austria's plea of Ignorance
tDf the official outcofcie of the subma-
j rine controversy with Germany has
I caused some officials. to favor taking
I action to forestall a similar plea by
other German allies, when the United
States has finished with Austria.
It is disclosed that the United
States already iias delivered to Anieri-
! can
diplomatic representatives to
Turker nd Bulgaria, and to Turkish
" Bulgarian diplomats here copies
? th b'f correspondence with
Germany. Administration leaders un-
re ' "
I nrnmntlv If ffli us a-umnt Tti
Is an intimation that the United
Sjateslint decide tl) 8inkin- Df the
Persia waa wtilout justification if no
altempt was nlade t0 use un8 aboa
,f the cnf altPlupu,d to us tn4l -ns
the United States might consider the
commander of the submarine justi
fied. ANOTHER WAGE INCREASE
SHARON. Penna.. Jan. 4. The She-
nnn?n Furnar fnmnjnv annnunroit
d ' jv ,. , ,
re-lcrease hp ad-ance is f,en(.Ta ,f.
j fw gpo() fart.aoo worker), ln the
Mahoning ami Shenango Valleys. The
n,lerter,,,ined
. . . - - -
This is the opinion rendered prior to
any operation.
While detained at Fort Bliss Huerta
refused food except when cocked by
his wife. Now be bas refused the er-
