mil
VOLUME TWENTY-THREE
ARDMORE, OKLA., WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 1916.
NUMBER 77.
KlflS DESPERATELY FIGHTING
1K1STHS AT CZEH1TZ
A PROGRESSIVE STEP
RUSSIANS ADVANCING AGAINST AUSTRIANS THERE,
ACCORDING TO TODAY'S REPORTS .FROM THAT
k FRONT.
Berlin Says there has been only Mining and Artillery Engage
ments on Franco-Belgian Front French Official Says,
Bulgarian Detachments are Pillaging Greek Frontier Vil
lages Greece Protests to Entente Powers Against Ar
rest of Greek Subjects at Saloniki British Compulsory
Military Bill Introduced r House of Commons Today,
Providing for Military Ser ' All Males Between Ages
of Eighteen arid Forty-One, re Bachelors or Wid
owers without Children Dope. - ion them Ireland
un. -th Says Bill will
-s
Excluded from Terms of Measure
Meet Support of those Opposed to
Losses in Loos Fighting Announced To.
Harry L. Crockett Leaves Clerkship
to Become Proprietor.
Harry L. Crockett, on om slop,
lias gono from clerk to proprietor,
and his friends are congratulating
him upon his progressive move. For
the past five years, Mr. Crockett has
I been a clerk in the Felker grocery
store. He closed a deal yesterday for
the purchase of the Anderson Bros1,
store at the corner of C and Main J
northwest, on the corner west of the
Randol hotel, and took charge of the
business this morning. The Ander
son Hros. sign lias been taken down
and the sign for H. L. Crockett coos
up in its slead.
Mr. Crockett lias lived In Ardmore
a number of years. He has a most
estimable family, he enjoys a large
acquaintance, and is devoted to busi
ness. He has a fund of experience
In the grocery business and he has
abundant assurance that he will succeed.
WIEfliE
MMiiin nip
NUIIUlIb Dili
PIN
TEXAS POST OFFICE ROBBED
Robbers Secured Six Hundred Dollars
in Stamps.
Cleburne, Texas, Jan. 5. Robbers
!vn:iniittl tin, u'lfn In Hi., .,,.. ..rii.,.-. !
at liio Vista, near here this morning,
obtaining six hundred dollars in
stamps and forty dollars In curren
cy. 1 he (it fleers have no clue.
suns m
B "I ril I in m
hi mi
CHARGES AGAINST OFFICIALS
CONTEST IS NOW ON BETWEEN
CAMP AND CIRCLE TO SECURE
NEW MEMBERS ARDMORE
CAMP IS LARGEST IN STATE.
i. London, Jan. 5. The Rus
sians are making a desperate
nslaught on the Austrians be
fore Czernowitz and are ad
vancing there.
Berlin reports only mining
ind artillery' engagements on
he Franco-Belgian front.
The Greek government has
rotested to the entente powers
igainst the arrest of Greek sub
ects at Saloniki, demanding
heir release.
A French official says Bul
rian detachments are pillag
ng Greek frontier villages. j
act was also introi. oed by Llo;
George, urging its adoption, by sayi;
that the munitions output should b
facilitated, as everything depends j
upon It to bring the war to a sue-
i cessful close this year.
OTHERS II
A MANUFACTURER HERS
Brother to Roy M. Johnson is Patentee
of Carton Sealing Machine
H. L. Johnson of battle Creek, Mich,
who has been here visiting for a few
days with his brother, Hoy M. John
son, returned today to his home. Mr.
Johnson was for several years con
nected Willi the W. K. Kellogg Com
pany and while connected with that
company he patented some machines
Russians at Czernowitz.
London, Jan. 5. The I'etrograd 1 for 'faking alu sealing cartons, and
orrespondent of the Havas AEenev!he is now eRaged in manufacturing
REGULAR MEET
LIST HIT
DISCUSS MANY THINGS OF VITAL
IMPORTANCE TO CITY WILL
HAVE BANQUET SOON AS DE
TAILS ARE ARRANGED.
nnounces that the Austrians have
vaetiated Czernowitz, capital of TIu
owina, the Russians having seized
II the heights dominating the town.
A Keuter dispatch from I'etrograd
and selling these machines. He is now
en route home from California where
he was demonstrating the use of his
machine to a fruit company which is
putting up 'raisins in cartons for the
i.vs the Teutonic forces are reported retail trade. Mr. Johnson has made
) have evacuated Czernowitz. Itadd-i'some profitable investments with his
mt a large number of .prisoners have brother in the southern oil fields and
n taken, including many Germans, is now considering other oil invest-
I ments in this portion of the state,
Berlin Denies Report.
Berlin, Jan. 5. Desperate attempts
. the Russians to break through the
ustrian lines in Galieia are confin
ng, but, according to Tuesday's of
ial statement by the Austro-Hun-irian
war office, they have been
To pliice Ardmore on a par with
any city from Kansas City to Dallas
as a retail center and to enter into
open competition with Oklahoma City
Port Worth and Dallas as a retail
market, is the most important plan
of the Business Men's association,
which at its meeting last night dis
cussed a plan for trade extension.
Preparedness and judicious adver
tising was the keynote of the discus
sion, and every member present
seemed satisfied that with systematic
effort the out-of-town trade to Aid
more could be doubled at least during
I ure ne.xi iwene mounts.
Everyone Listed.
The credit rating system of the
association was reported to be in,
Another Straw
Tlie Texas Company is know n as one
of the concerns in the state which
does not give out its news and any
newspaper must guess as best it can
at what it is doing. The company evi-
iwhnre iiprnafnl nn,l tlio Piui'ttta .In,,!.- 11 ,
, " " , ' """" """ " f'ne "'if uuifgood shape, and it is now possible
10 neamion. us leiegrapn superinten-1 f0rany member of the association
dent has been here to arrange to build j to secure information on practically
a circuit for the company. The com- everyone in the trade territory. So
British Casualties at Loos. jpany's civil engineer has been here, successful has the scheme of giving
London, Jan. 5. The British cas-The men at the head of the company credit to the proper parties been that
Hfles in the battle of Loos, France, in Oklahoma have been here. Oil has members of the association stated
mi September 2 to October S, to-1 been purchased and offers have been that their losses through bad ac
ed three hundred officers and fifty-made for more storage oil. Attorneys ! counts had been minimized to such
von tnousand men, according to an for the company have been here. It is an extent that it afforded them an
Ardmore Camp No. .",;::!, V, ). ,
litis the distinction of being the big
gest camp of the order in the state,
and it is doubtful if there Is one
anywhere in the country that exceeds
It in point .f membi rship.
Ardmore camp was organized in
this city April ti, is:tl, with twenty
members. Today the camp has ltd.'!
members in good standing, and dur
ing the past month lis initiated 171
members.
The remarkable growth in this city
is due in a large measure to the
active int. rest displayed by J. N.
Morgan and James Gait. The latter
lias been secretary of the local camp
for several terms, and takes pride in
keeping the membership in line.
The Woodmen Circle here is the
largest grove in the state, with a
membership of i'll members, and
there is a merry contest on between
the camp and tiie grove to see which
will secure the most members.
The winners of this contest will lie
feasted to a banquet by the lost rs
and they are ail actively at work to
neep from being on the losing, side.
The contest will close this month.
Activity of Administration Officials
Basis for Charges
Washington, l. C, Jan. 5. Charges
circulated at the hist session of con
gress that administration officials act
ed In the Interest of the foreign bill
are held as the base for the majority
and minority reports of the senate in
vestigating committee. l lie reports,
which found the shipping Interests
blameless of Illegal activity, are op
posing the measure.
REUTER SAYS SURVIVORS OF
THE PERSIA HAVE ARRIVED IN
EGYPT.
nn mp flurp
UUIiSUll I LI!
MBS OF
CBETTES
two cniLOBfi
Mothers Who Rushed Below Deck to
Get Their Babies Never Returned
Captain of Persia Was Among
the Lost.
HABIT OF SCHOOLBOYS WILL BE
BROKEN UP IF THE CAMPAIGN
STARTED IS ADHERED TO
CITIZENS INDIGNANT.
fflSsTIIE
CiTTLEM
e declared to have suffered
avy losses.
The sale of' cigarettes to minors
will be a dangerous proposition in
Ardmore if the crusade already start
ed is maintained, and there is no
doubt but what it will be. The other
day a prominent citizen of the city
wrote to the superintendent of the
city schools, calling attention to this,
fact and since that time many others
have joined in the crusade to put an
end to the traffic. One prominent
attorney In the city stated this morn
ing that he would prosecute to the
limit of the law anyone caught selling
cigarettes to minors iind the following
communication was received by mail
this morning:
"The Ardmoreite,
"City,
In passing the Third ward school
London, Jan. .1. The survivors of
the Persia are now at Alexandria, ac
cording to a Renter's correspondent.
The tragedy was enacted so rapidly
that few realized what had happened.
Only those who left their seats in
the saloon immediately had a chance
to escape. Some who reached the
deck lost their footing and were swept
into the sea. Mothers who sought
their children below decks never re
turned. (July two children were
saved.
The captain Is believed to have
been lost with the ship.
The survivors lost everything they
owned. During the thirty hours they
spent In the boats they suffered from
the cold.
The American embassy learns this
afternoon that Rev. Homer Salisbury,
an American, was on the Persia and is
not included in the list of survlvons.
Gerard Makes Inquiry.
Berlin, Jan. 5. Ambassador darard
today conferred with the foreign of
fice on the sinking of the Persia,
and Inquiring about the nationality of
the submarine craft.
TO WAGE WAR.
nouncrment in the lmue of com
ms today.
British Military Bill.
London, Jan. 5. The compulsory
litary service bill was introduced
the house of commons today by
iiiith. There was the greatest as-
nblage of members since the war
"h compulsory bill provides for
itary service for all males between
ages of IS and 41, who are bach
rs or widowers without children
iendent upon them,
reland is excluded from the terms
the measure.
remier Asnuith said the bill could
supported by those opposed to con
ption. He rraised Lord Derby's
ipaign.
n amendment to the munitions
a
WEATHER FORECAST
1
New Orleans, La., Jan. 3.
believed that the Texas Company in- opportunity to sell on a Closer mar
tends to build a line, but nothing can 'gin and would be a great factor in
be obtained upon which to base a posi
tive statement.
FERGUSON IS DEFENDANT
the trade extension movement, which
is to be inaugurated.
Cigarettes Discussed.
A communication from Professor
the business men
against
in his
the regular course, and will come up ,'ine line.
Mr. W;:rd has h:,d many vear:
The weather forecast for Ok
ahoma for tonight Is partly
cloudy In the west and central
portions, and much colder
rhursday. Fair and colder in
Je eastern portion.
Local Weather Data.
Tighest temperature
yesterday 70
.owest temperature
i last night 61
Mghest temperature
ffame date last year 61
owest temperature
I same date last year 4S
I '
Texas Governor and Others Are Being
Sued for Qil Land Worth Millions.
Houston, Tex., Jan. 5, 'Governor
Ferguson, and thirty-nine others are
defendants in a suit on trial today for I at the next meeting. Prof. Richards
oil lands worth millions in the Humble wants the business men to go on
fipltl- record against the evil by taking
The heirs of the owner forty years the stand that boys who smoke them
ago allege misrepresentation in .the I would not find anv encouragement
for employment from them.
Banquet Next Week.
The annual banquet of the associa
tion is to be held next week and is
to be an elaborate affair. At that
time there will be an election of of
ficers, which w?s last night deferred
for that occasion. In the meantime,
a personal canvass will be made to
secure additional members of the
association.
,!i
GOVERNMENT INSPECTOR HAS
LOCATED HEADQUARTERS IN I
THIS CITY AND WILL BEGIN building just after school closed yes
terday, I observed eight, boys stand
ing about one larger than the rest,
watching him smokinir rtiriirettes nnrl
v i.- n-... i-..:... . . " "
... iv. nuiu. i ri:iT(.K ip er . ' .... i.
.-.fiiMjK fAiiinpie 101 me smaller
nary inspector, has moved- to this 1 scholars.
city and will begin a campaign to j ".Vow, I believe that a little innuirv
eliinnnale the cattle tick in Carter j by the superintendent and a thorough
county. Mr. Ward will have tempo-. investigation among the boys would
laty outers in tne olnee of the United locate the source of the cigarettes,
States Indian agent, where he may! and they could be made to tell who
he consulted on all matters pertain- js selling them.
ing to the eradication of the cattle! -j hope the man who spoke of this
tick. A meeting of cattlemen will bedevil through .the columns of The Ard
held In this city in a few days, and j mor. ite a few days ago will bo suc
plans will be adopted to install dip-; cessful in putting his threats into
It can be done through
There is no excuse
Richards, asking the co-operation ofll'ing vats. Mr. Ward stptes that h j execution.
Confers with Lansing.
Washington, D. C, Jan. C Presi
dent Wilson and Secretary Lansing
conferred for an hour today over the
submarine crisis. No additional facts
beyond the definite knowledge that on
ly two Americans were aboard, lias
been received by the state depart
ment. No action will be taken until
further advices are received.
CATHEDRAL IS CLOSED
Attempted Suicide Causes Closing
, Of Edifice.
Rome, Jan. 5. Because a young
man attempted suicide, blood being
spilt, in the baslca of St. Peters,
that sacred edifice was closed today
until it Is re-consecrated, which will
probably be tomorrow.
campaign i'" " mucn encouraged over the the teachers.
ngarette smoKi'ig was (lis- "in too,; nere and with the co-operation ; for not drtectini? It Tl.(. l,nv u-lm
cussed, and while expressions of ap-'f the canlemen hopes to put this 'smokes gives himself away by his
proval were made, the matter took 1 s ' mn of the state above the
signing of the deed
iijunimrpiM
HAITI WERE
ATTACKED
quar-, odor, and above all his discolored
j fingers. Let's find out w ho is selling
ex-. cigarettes to minors, and give them
perience in this work, and states that I the limit. Verv trulv
AMERICAN MARINES ON ISLAND
REPUBLIC ATTACKED BY NEW
REVOLUTIONISTS NO AMERI
CAN CASUALTIES.
!
Hi
jjj Port au Prince, Haiti, Jan. 5. The
ti . insurrectionists in the fresh revolu-
tionary outbreak early today attacked
tX.the American marines, but were re
X pelled with on native killed.
tt There were no American casual-
ties.
CASE IS REMANDED
b has cone to this section of Okla
homa to hi tter the condition of t ho j
cattlemen. Cattle free from ticks
are worth very much more than
those affected, and the government is
furnishing a means to rid the coun
try of the pest, if the people will
adopt their methods.
"J. M. HOARD.'
REPORTED MEXICAN
MASSACRE CONFIRMED
F. V. Fr to Get Another Trial on
Forgery Charges.
Austin. Tex., Jan. 5. The court Among those killed, it was said, was
of criminal appeals today reversed , Father Ramon Flores. who was shot
Douglas, Ariz., Jan. 4 Persons ar
riving here today from the Interior
of Sonora confirmed the reported mas
sacre a few weeks ago of male resi
dents of San Pedro de la Cueva, all
men over 13 years old being killed
by the Villa soldiers b"fore retreat
ing Into the state of Chihuahua.
mm on
iirDrcc I
MILUd HILL
fTCBETO
THIS CITY
BEGILL IF
NO REASONS HAVE BEEN LEARN
ED EXCEPT THAT TWO ESTAB
LISHMENTS OF THAT KIND
WILL NOT PAY HERE.
when he interceded a third time with
General Villa on behalf of the men.
MAYOR WOODWARD AND FIVE
COMMISSIONERS MAY BE RE
CALLED VOTE BEING TAKEN
. TODAY.
'
and remanded the case of F. V. Fry,
from Wichita Falls, Texas, who was
enen a iwo-enr sentence Tor ror- J Fri.nds and relatives Investigating Atlanta commissioners is being voted
gery. Misconduct of the Jury was al- the reported death of George Saun-ion today at a special election.
Atlanta, Ga., Jan. 3. The recall of
i Mayor Woodward and five of the
leged.
ders, an American, who has been ! The ouster is based on the reduc-
James Callahan Nominated.
missing from Xacosari, Sonora,
months, stated that thv nractiallv
Washington. Jan. 5. President Wil- had verified reports that Saunders'
son today nominated James Y. Cal-, body was found by Mexican soldiers
lahan of Woodtrard. Okla.. for regis-; and buried. Efforts to locate the
ter of the land office at Guthrie. j place of burial have been fruitt.
four I ing of the chief of police to a cap
taincy for alleged insubordination.
Birth.
It has been reported that the Kress
company will not open a store in this
city at the present time, and, in fact.
they have sold their West Main street
property to T. H. Dunn of this city
who will remodel it into modern
stores.
No reason is assigned for the de
termination of the big department
store firm to forsake the field, other
than the fact that the Wool worth
people have secured a ten-year lease
on the Reed building, which Is prac
tically opposite the Kress property.
and they figure that two stores of this
kind would not pay in Ardmore at
this time.
Mr. Dunn, whom it Is reported,
has purchased the property, could not
be seen this morning, but it Is stated
that he w ill conert the buildings into
To Mr. and Mrs. Kerns of North modern stores with the probable nd-
W f, vMnr.tr
