StHeAWKATWWti '". .
T
fl mHIdm I ht brln rMsHs, (htr
f'sWe4sir fHtrtlr cloudy M
raton arc fonslnlcHt with cfreii'
JML:iwirrj Thnrsik; rain. I
J tut Ion. Hooks open to iHnpfftlo. A
I'
j j j . j
j j j j ! j j j j j j
, V'- ''KKKtr MtrVnttCAX-lUI.
PAthYTVBLtOLKtoaKB-ltM.
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 1016.
OiV COPYONE GENT.
Hfi furktivB -aE
ft
.iT ,
Ii HuMnti where It Is their boast
TI1I11? nrc correctly until,
(Hi, tell us, 1I0 the children const
s ITpon n Robert slciU
W. l T. If. HOLDS OrEN 8KSSI0X.
The W. O. T. 17. gavo nn open ses
sion at tlio regular meeting Morula
afternoon, January 3 Tha devotional
scrvtco was conducted by tho presi
dent, Mrs. Joseph Oodson, who pre
.sided over tho entire meeting. Tho
singing was led by Mrs. William Tollo
with Miss Martha Trapp accompanist
at the piano. The business session was
followed by an entertaining literary
and musical program. Mrs. Moody,
tho Bccrctnry, read a clever poem,
"What Will You Do When tho Town
Goes Dry?" Mr. Wllhoyte talked en
tertainingly and instructingly on "Tho
Situation in Maysvllle," Urging the
necessity of vigilance and firmness in
enforcing the laws, and emphasizing
tho fact that the liquor interest was .1
frco lance and not prono to obey the
laws. His talk was Interspersed with
delightful bits of humor, which were
greeted with laughing applauso by his
delighted audience. The only criticism
on his .excellent talk was that bo did
not explain satisfactorily why, in re
sponse to Mrs. Dodson'B Invitation, ho
did riot bring Mrs. Wllhoyte with him.
Mrs. Tolle Bang a solo, "Was It You?"
She has a sweet, sympathetic voice,
and sang with pathos and feeling. A
pathetic Incident of the meeting was n
request by Miss Sallie Burroughs that
. a prayer be offered for Mrs, John
TJouldon, who is very ill at tho hospi
tal. Mr. Wllhoyte responded in a most
fervent supplication for strength to
sustain her In suffering and for resto
ration to health. The meeting closed
with prayer from tho visiting minister
from Aberdeen, Rev. P. E. Burgctt. A
social hour followed, with Kentucky
ham sandwiches and coffee served.
COUXTY COURT.
A paper bearing date of February
"24, 1010, said to be the last will and
testament of Bridget M. Grimes, de
ceased, W38 produced in court and by
the testimony of J. F. Barbour and Tl.
K. Hoefllch, the signature was proven
to bo that of tho decedent.
TQBACCOJMARKET
Sales On .Haisilllc Loose Lcnf Flnor
An Iteportcd Ity tho Various
Warehouses.
Central
Pounds sold 64,235
High price $26.00
Low prlco '. $2.0u
Avcrogo $10.03
Special Breeze & Howard, Mason
county, $15.80; Morgan & Mltcholl,
Mason county, $14.20 j Kelly & Parker,
Fleming county, $13.
Offerings common.
Liberty.
Pounds sold 120,265
High prlco $51.00
Low price $3.00
Average $12.11
Special Stears & Bollcy, $15.03;
J. A. Wheeler, $17.56; Arthur Yancey,
$18.64; Paul Crump, $17.50.
WELL KNOWN HERE
Death of Hot. Raymond T. Gorbold
At Hlx Homo In Fnr.ofl
Kioto, Japan.
Block sale at tho Home, Farmers.
Planters and Independent.
successful i:uciiiii:.
Tuesday night at Eagles' Hall on
East Second street, the Ladles' Euchro
Club held nnother one of their suc
cessful euchres. The large hall was
packed to overflowing with players
and spectators. Mr. Charles Roh
miller won tho handsome prize offered
to the best gentleman player. Mrs.
Simon Crowcll won tho premium for
the best lady player. Another euchro
will be hold next Tuesday night.
DEFEXDAXT WINS SUIT."
The case of Arthur Burrls vs. Bates
ogers Construction Company, which
has been attracting attention in the
Circuit Court for several days, was de
cided Tuesday with the verdict In favor
of the defendant. Burrls was suing
the company for $1,000, claiming this
amount as damages sustained when In
tho employ of the company.
MARRIAGE AXXOCXCED.
The marriage Is announced of Miss
Salllo Taylor to Rev. Henry Forman of
Gnalior, India, on Saturday, January
1, In the Dharmatolla Street church,
Calcutta, India. Both are former Ma
son county residents, being from two
of the most prominent families In this
state, and their friends Jolil The Led
ger in congratulations.
Mr. W. J. Curtis was in from ML
Olivet on Tuesday.
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
Wa wish to ttiaak our many friends mi customs for tbalr liberal patreaaee for this.
wr fewtb joar ia bedsits, which has proven to be ceRsideraMe beyeri m antloiptlea, fer
wmci we are very mmkih.
We are row Imw forward 10 a neatly increased btisteess the centae year asd we
have totalled tee latest asd rnst improved eawpneet fer hatffog yew orders, which guar
aetees high grade nil work and satisfaction1 to all, at the best possible prices.
We are leaders la wr Hue.
tuc menu iiiudcd nnuDAiiv comer limestone and second
mil rrmouu Lumuui uumiHin street, phone sis.
A. A. McLAUGIILIX.
L. X. BEHAX.
Well, Folks,
We Were Sorry You ALL
Were Not Lucky
but there's another day, Washington's
Birthday. Save your Tickets.
We have just finished our inventory,
and are now ready for another year. We
have the goods to sell you, at the right
prices; our entire time and attention ia
giveu to the selection of goods for you;
we anticipate your wants; try to make our
store attractive to you; our working force
polite and attentive, and wecordially in
vite your patronage. We are here to do
business and have the goods and prices.
Can you find any excuse for going
elsewhere?
Let us pull together for a bigger and
better Maysvilie.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE HEAL MAN"
Don't forget that the same tickets are good for the
second drawing on Washington's Birthday. JVjaybe
yw'Il be lucky enough to get the 'Maxwell,
E
i
jrfBARGAINS FOR CHRISTMAS
Yk" SWXKf 9KAX6KS IU WilMS JLXIMXS 1S DOZKKt MIXED XUTS
fMc WJXMl FKJMM iX CMJiFJCTXKIM H4JWAK. LIST US MAT
vaoi mwvvv mviu mu.v
MOTH mummm f
Stranger even than unbelievable Ac
tion Is tho story ot two deaths ono
In far off Kioto, Japan, tho other In
lloss, Ohio. Both occurred at tho same
hour tho snrao day, It was a son, In
Kioto, his father in Ross.
Rev.. Raymond T. Oorbold, 39, a
young Presbyterian missionary, Igno
rant of his father's falling health, took
suddenly 111 last October In Kioto,
Japan, Ho was too ill to bo told any
thing which might causo him worry.
He was suffering from heart trouble.
At Ross, O., his father, Fred Gor
bold, a well known miller and busi
ness man, was stricken almost tho
same hour of tho snmo day his mis
sionary son took ill. He, too, was kept
In ignorance of his son's Illness, lest
tho news might causo a relapse.
Both grow weaker. Tho family o
Rev. Oorbold In Kioto cabled tho con
dition from time to titno to tho fam
ily hero, and tho home folks sent
messages to Rev. Gorbold's wlfo of tho
approaching end of tho father. Neith
er father nor son know each other was
111. A cablegram from Dr. Albert Oor
bold yesterday brought the sad news
of his death, giving the day and hour.
Rev. Mr. Oorbold was welt known In
this city, having delivered several lec
tures hero some time ngo at tho First
Vtp sbytcrlan church.
ASSEMBLY MEETS
With Democrats In Full Control, Who
Tut Through Tliclr Slate
With But On Slip.
Frankfort, Ky., January 4. Tho
Senate met at noon and was called to
order by Lieutenant Governor Black.
Prayer was offered by Rev. WJ Watts
of the First .Methodist church, after
which tho caucus nominees of each
party oivore presented and voted upon,
both Democrats and Republicans vot-
IngUielr. full strength. The Dcmo-
fcrattc cancttdntcs were declared elect
ed. Leaves of absence were extended
to Senator Clay of Montgomery county,
on account of tho Illness of his wife,
and to Senator Stewart on account ot
his fceblo health. Tho Senators were
sworn in by Rodney Keenon, clerk
of the Court of Appeals.
Tho House.
The House was called to order by
Ell Berry, chief clerk from the last
session. Prayer was offered by Rev
J. J. Oravltt of the Episcopal church.
Members of tho House were sworn in
by Judge Thomas of the Court of Ap
peals. Caucus nominations of both
Republicans and Democrats wcro pre
sented and tho slowrprocess of votlnr.
on the candidates-was begun. As soon
as Mr. Duffy had been elected speaker.
Itoscoo Tartar ot Somerset, presented
him with a gavel on behalf of tho
Republicans.
Tho Republicans had full ticket out
for all oiTlcea.
MAKING GOOD
Mr. Frank S. NewcIL Formerly of
Maysrllle, Circulation Man
On Milwaukee Sentinel.
Tho many friends of Mr. Frank S.
Nowell, among whom wo class our
selves, will be pleased to know that ho
is "making good" In Milwaukee.
Frank is now tho country circulation
manager ot tho Milwaukee Sentinel,
ot Milwaukee, Wis., with a corps of
assistants under him.
The position Is ono of considerable
rcsjxraslblllty and requires energy,
ability and punch, all of which Frank
has.
Good luck to you, Frank, and may
you Influence in the newspaper world
increase.
K. OF 1 LYCEUM ANXOUXCK8
NKXT NUMniJR.
Tho Columbian Quartet Concort
Party, which com.es to tho Knights of
Pythias hall Friday evening, January
7, Is ono of tho most remarkable mu
sical organizations In America. B'or
twenty years tho personnel has re
mained unchanged. It Is tho oldest
quartet and concert party, to tho man,
on the platform. Three of tho cole-
brated members of tho party are blind.
They received tholr education and mu
sical training In tho Ohio Instltuto for
tho Blind, at Columbus.
Their programs huvo the special
merit of variety seldom beard by any
quartet, consisting of vocal solos, In
strumental' quartets, using violin,
flute, piano and 'cello, and vlolln-fluto
duete.
Miss Rosa Carpenter of Mayalick.
Ky.. liu returned home after a ten
days' ylslt with friends and relatives
In rtwalag ooimty. Bh was accotn-
TO GETFACTORY
Chamber of Commerce Dtyfl Splendid
Horn .Heeling Tuesday Mgut
Raises 5,00 and Wo (let
Shirtwaist Factory
At n called meeting ot tho MnyBvllle
Chamber of Commerce, hold In tho
Council Chamber Tuesday night It was
decided to grant tho domands of the
owners of tho shirtwaist factory, who
wcro knocking at our doors, and glvo
them tho guarantee they asked.
With this guarantee tho factory Is
suro to come to Maysvilie, and will
glvo employment to about fifty per
sons, j
A committee, which had been ap
pointed to Investigate the company's
affairs, composed of Messrs. f Louis
Morz, Thomas P. Boono and Thomna
H. Gray, reported that they had visit
ed tho company's present plant jn Cin
cinnati and had Investigated the com
pany's standing. They found a 'splen
didly equipped plant and learned that
the company bore a good reputation.
A new proposition was presented by
tho company, which Is to reorganize
under the name of the Gibson Gar
ment Company and Incorporate under
tho laws ot the state of Kentucky with
a capital stock of $25,000. Qf this
amount Maysvilie people agreed to
purchase $5,000 worth of tho stock
uud are to have two members of the
board of directors, which shall con
sist of five members.
This was accepted and tho new fac
tory Is assured, providing, of course,
If things nre as they were represented
by the representatives -present.
Tho company proposed tomove n
part of their plant here at onea and
tho old Princess rink building on East
Second street will be rented to house
tho plant. The main office ot the con
cern will bo In Maysvilie, but a branch
plant and olllco will be maintained In
Cincinnati until workmen can he
taught to operate the machines and
employes can be obtained, and aB
soon as the workers can be taught the
manipulation of the machines, the on
tlro plant will be located here.
Tho company now has a large or
der of merchandise from tlic Wool
worth C and 10-cent store syndicate,
which will keep the plant In operation
for several months, and as the hands
become more proficient, more costly
garments will be manufactured.
LAW ENFORCEMENT LEAGUE
To Be Organized By Leading Citizen
of City In Sunday Afternoon
Meeting flcm Theater.
Sunday afternoon ot tho Gem The
ator tho Law Enforcement League, an
organization of prominent men of
Maysvilie, will meet to discuss plans
and formnlato methods for tho en
forcement of tho laws against selling
of Intoxicating liquors In this city, and
tho apprehending of alt unlawful
Jlquor trade.
Slnco Mnysvlllo has gone dry it
seems to be tho voice of the majority
ot the people that It shall bo dry In
every sense of tho word, and to this
end tho meeting has been called.
Tho assembly will bo addressed by
prominent merchants who, It Is said,
will present definite plans for tha
strict enforcement of prohlbtlon.
LOOK.
Thero will ho an Old-Fashloncd
Square Dance nt Neptune Hall, Janu
uary 6, 1!)1G. Music by five-piece
string band. Admission $1.
4-5-6 MAGNOLIA DANCING CLUB.
Mr. S. B. Lee of Westln, Mo., is vis
iting relatives In this city and county.
I New Year 1916
Start in Right. Do Your Grocery Business With Us.
Phone Any Time.
DINGER BROS .
wm
1
107 West Second Street.
Phone 20.
Mr. W. 8. Whcatley of Sardls, was Judgo J. W. Leo of Vanceburg, was
business visitor In this city Tuesday. In this city Tuesday on business.
HELLO, 1916!
Wo wish ono and all a prosperous
NEW TEAIt-
Our service to tho public the past year wns good. For this year
it will be better. Wo claim tho Quickest Day and Night Scrrlco In
the City. Prices right, quality tho best, accuracy undoubted.
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
S THIKD AND MA UK EX 8THEETS.
PHONE 91.
Mr. J. M. Thompson of Mt. Olivet,
wns a visitor in Maysvilie Tuesday.
Mr. W. W. Dugan of Vanceburg, was
In Maysvlllo Tuesday on business.
The Home of Quality Clothes
If you have half excuse to buy a suit or overcoat you will discover in 1916 that
you made a good investment
All of our $16.50 and $18 suits at $15.
All of our $22.50 and $25 suits at $20.
All of our $18 and $20 overcoats at $15. -All
of our $12.50, $13.50 and $15 overcoats at $10.
s Big reductions in boys and children's suits.
THESE PRICES MEAN "CASH"
I
We show the biggest stock of Raincoats in the State. All bought before the
advance in price. They range from $4 up.
TD. KCE10iiI3SrG!-3E!R. &, CO.
Hunt's Quality Standard
Our quality stntidnrd is tlio pride of a sixty-fotir-yenr-old business. We are determined to mnintnin it at nuy cost. It is
the application of this principle tiiat makes a sale of furs here absolutely safci No matter how small the price you can dc
pend on the quality.
Wo have sold our furs down to the minimum and will dispose of the balance at a most generous price concession.
IN CHILDREN'S SETS One Brown Pox at $1.98 formerly $3.50. One Ermine imitation at $2.25 formerly $4.
IN MISSES' SETS One Water .Mink at $5 formerly $7 j. Ono Squirrel at $6 formerly $8'-. .
IN WOMEN'S SETS One Jted Pox $17.50 formerly $25. Ono Siberian Wolf $15 formerly $22,50. OnoJStyprinn Wolf
$10 formerly $15. ' - ' '
SOARFS White Pox $3.50 formerly $4.. White Fox 5 formerly $7. -
MUFFS Hudson Seal $16i2 formerly $25. Black Pox $lb' fonncrlv $22Va- Silver Oppossum $15 formerly $22V. Nat
ural Oppossum $10 formerly $15. Black Pox $8y2 formerly $12M. White Fox $7 formerly $10. Silver Fox $6Vs former
ly $8i2. ..
1SS2
1916
Walton's Fresh ItoaBted Coffee.
Loavo orders at Mrs. John Hays' gro
cery. I'hono 312-R. d301w
Mr. William Barrett of Robertson
county, was In Maysvlllo Tuesday on
business.
Mr, J. M. Holmes of Ilobortson
county, was In this city Tuesday at
tending the tobacco sales.
Mr. J. J. Hall of Mt. Olivet, was at
tending tho tobacco sales hero Tuesday.
Tomorrow's Paper Will TELL THE TALE!
It Will Tell How Differently Merz Bros. Run a Dry
Goods Store From Most Dry Goods Stores
! Were we to go over our entire stock and MARK IT UP instead of DOWN wo
t would be doing exactly what other large stores are doing in face of a rising market.
And we must admit that they aro justified in doing so.
Read every item carefully in tomorrow's paper and have some ready CASH on
SATURDAY, JANUARY 8th. THAT'S THE DAY.
1
- - v t
