THE BABJRE, BAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 249.
UAK11E, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY
5,
1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
COMPULSORY ,
SERVICE BILL
Is Bound to Shake England
as Never Since the
War Started
HAS THROAT CANCER.
650,000 UNMARRIED
' MEN FAIL TO ENLIST
French Hear That Bulgari
ans Are Pillaging Greek
Border Towns
The introduction in the British House
of bill dealing with compulsory mili
tary service was set for to-day.
The Greek government has made vig
orous protests to the entente powers
against the arrest of Greek subjects at
Saloniki, according to Athens advices.
Berlin hears the Greek minister at Sofia
has Informed "Bulgaria that Greece will
use all the means at her disposal to sup
port the recent protest against the ar
rest of German and other consuls at Sa
loniki, desiring to maintain good rela
tions with the central powers.
The French official statement declares
that Bulgarian detachments have been
pillaging villages on the Greek frontier.
London has advices that the American
ambassador at Berlin, James W. Gerard,
has conferred with the Berlin foreign
office regarding the sinking of the steam
ship Persia.
. London, Jan. 4 (delayed), Jan. 5. In
the House of Commons Wednesday the
compulsory military service bill will be
taken up. It promises to bring one of
the sharpest parliamentary struggles
since the war began. The Earl of Der
by's report on the recruiting campaign,
which began Oct. 23 and ended Dec. 11,
explains why the cabinet found it neces
sary to bring forward a measure for the
compulsory enlistment of unmarried
men.
More than 2,500,000 in England, Scot
land and Wales enrolled themselves, but
after those in indispensable industries
and those medically unfit have been win
nowed out, about 1,100,000 available to
bear arms will remain. But there are
650,000 unmarried men "who failed to
come forward and the government will
not attempt to redeem Premier Asquith's
pledge that married men should not be
called out as long as any considerable
fraction of single men hold back.
Asserts Paris Newspaper About Kaiser
Wilhclm.
Paris. Jun. 4. Tim Matin affirms
notwithstanding denials, that the tier
man emperor is suffering from cancer
of the throat and is no longer able to
speak.
Jn February, 1011, according to tne
.uaun, "the doctors were considering
whether it wag necessary to remove the
entire larynx in order to stay the prog
ress of the disease. That raised the
question as to whether the emperor
would bo ablo to speak if such an oper
ation were performed. The leading spe
cia lists of every capital in Europe were
consulted. It was learned that an emi
nent surgeon of Paris had, with an arti
ficial larynx and a breathing tube open
ing into the trachea, restored the power
of speech to cancerous patients who had
undergone total ablation of the affect
ed organs.
"This doctor, whose name the Matin
withholds for reasons of professional eti
quette, was asked to go to Berlin, by
the German ambassador, lie was offered
100,000 franca and all his expenses and
was requested to bring with hiin a pa
tient who had been fitted with the ap
paratus so that the emperor himself
might see if he was able to speak.
"Meanwhile, as a result of a minor op
eration with a bistoury and a few weeks
of absolute rest, the emperor's condi
tion improved, as is often the rase in
this disease, the progress of which is
implacable, but slow. It is another op
cration of this kind which has just been
performed. But it is only palliative.
J. he Lierman emperor must either make
up his mind to complete removal of the
larnyx or be stifled by the growth.
"This explains why tho emperor went
neither to Warsaw, Constantinople nor
lirusscls.
AMERICANS
' ABOARD, TWO
Definite Establishment o
Fact About the Sinking
of the Persia
PASSENGER LIST
HAS VERIFIED IT
Charles H. Grant Is Alive;
Consul McNeely Prob
ably Is Dead
BALL CLUB BRINGS HALF MILLION.
TREMENDOUS
INTEREST IN THE
DRAFT MEASURE
Largest Assemblage in House of Commons
Since the War Started Faced
Premier Asquith, Who In
troduced the BiUL
London, Jan. 5. The bill providing for
compulsory military service was intro
duced in the House of Commons to-day
by Premier Asquith. The largest assem
blage of members since the war began
faced the premier, many members having
obtained leave from the front, so that
they might be able to vote on the bill.
St. Louis Browns Sold to St. Louis Fed
eral Stockholders.
St. Louis, Jan. 5. The sale of the St.
Louis Americans to Phil Ball and other
stockholders of the St. Louis Federals
was completed last night, it Mas an
nounced by attorneys for Mr. Ball. The
consummation of this deal was provided
for in the recent peace agreement be
tween organized baseball and the Federal
league.
The price for the Browns was $525,000.
This sum was paid by Phil Bull, James
. Garneau aid Otto Stifel for 800
shares of stock in the ball club and the
Dodier Realty company, the owner of
the owner of the American league park
and grand stands.
Fielder Jones, manager of the local
Federals, becomes manager of tho new
Browns. Frank Rickey, former mana
ger of the Browns will be retained prob
ably as a scout.
Robert Lee Hedges, president of the
old Browns held a controlling interest
in both the ball club and Realty com
pany. ' He received $"00 a share for
his 484 shares of stock, a total of $242,
000. John E. Bruce, C. J. McDonald of
Cincinnati and Walter Orthwein of St.
Louis were the other American league
stockholders.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 5. Only two
Americans ."were aboard the steamship
Persia when she was sunk in the Medi
terranean. The American consul at" Mar
seilles to-day advised the state depart
ment that he had obtained the passenger
list from the steamship agent there,
which definitely fixed the number of
Americans at two, Consul Robert Mc
Neely and Charles H. Grant of Boston.
The latter was saved but there is no
word from Consul McNeely.
President Wilson conferred for an hour
to-day with Secretary of State Lansing
over the submarine crisis. There still
was an indication that no action would
be taken pending the receipt of fuller
advices on the Persia sinking. The
meagre dispatches thus far failed to in
dicate whether the Persia's one gun was
mounted for offense or defense.
ADVANCED TO FIRST RANK.
FORMERLY OF VERMONT.
59,658 LOST IN ONE BATTLE.
British Casualties Last September Just
Revealed.
London, Jan. 5. The British casualties
in the battle of Loos, France, last Sep
tember totalled 2.370 officers and 57,288
men, according to the announcement in
the House of Commons this afternoon by
Harold J. Tennant, under secretary of
Jonathan L. Mack Was 60 Years Mem
ber of Masonic Fraternity.
Lynn, Mass., Jan. 5. Jonathan Liv-
ermore Mack, for more than 00 years a
member ot tne Masonic fraternity in
which he had held- high oil ices in Ver
mont and New Hampshire, died yestcr
dav at the home of his daughter, Mrs.
Roffa II. Parker, 115 Euclid avenue.
He was N3 years old and a native of
Marlow, X. H. He was a member and
past master of DeWitt Clinton lodge
of Northtield, Vt., past district deputy
grand lecturer of the grand lodge of
Vermont, past grand chaplain of" the
grand chapter, past junior warden of
the grand commandery and past eminent
commander of Mt. Zion commandery of
Rochester, N. H. He was a tailor by
trade and had lived in Lynn for 13 j
years. He is survived by two daugh
ters, Mrs. Parker and Mrs. Mary H.
Svmonds. .
NEW ENGLAND REPUDIATES IT.
THESSALONIKI STILL AFLOAT
And Not Abandoned by Her Crew, Say
, ' Messages.
New York, Jan. 5. Message indicat
ing that the steamship TheasRloniki is
still afloat and not abandoned by her
crew were received to-day from the
steamers I'nited States and Stockholm.
"The former reported she was still con
tinuing a searcii ior tne disabled steam
er. Three hundred passengers of the
Thessaloniki nre expected to arrive at
New York to-day on the steamer Patris,
by whom they were taken oft.
The Thessaloniki has been in distress
at sea since Iec. 22, but the Patris is
the only vessel of many that have re
sponded to wireless calls that have been
bio to find her. The coast guard cutter
Mohawk was sent out to aid the Thes
saloniki to-dav.
The Presentation of New Haven Road's
Former Officials, Says Choate.
New York, Jan. 5. Charles F. Choate
told the jury while summing up for the
defense in the trial of 11 former direc
tors of the New Haven' road, charced
with violation of the Sherman law, that
the people of New Lngland were op
posed to the prosecution and repudiated
it. .Mr. I noate said the government with
all its experts and secret service men
had not been able to produce one witness
from New England who would testify to
a single act of oppression on the part of
the Tvew Haven road, lie dwelt a
length upon the improvements in service
furnished New England, citing partieu
larly the terminals at lioston.
ACCUSED ON STAND.
CHARGES HELD BASELESS.
That Administration Officials Favored
Foreign Business Finns.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 5. Charon
circulated during the last session of Con
gress that administration official acted
in the interest of foreign business firms
In urging the passage of the ship pur
chase bill were held baseless in the ma
jority and minority report filed to-day
by the Senate committee appointed to
investigate thera.
Says -Hi Father, the Murdered Man,
Spoke of Gene Wood's Threats.
Concord, N. H., Jan. 5. Morrison II.
Pea alee, on trial on the charge of mur
dering his father, Howard Peaslee, at
Henniker, was on the stand to-dav and
he testified regarding' his movements im
mediately after the discovery of the
crime, some time before the murder his
father, he said, had instructed him what
to do in connection with certain business
interests "if anything happened to him
through threats of fiene Wood.
TOOK. i03 BALLOTS
Before the Fitchburg City Council Could
Elect President,
Fitchburg. Mass., Jan. 5. A deadlock
in the city council over the flection of a
president was broken on the 103.1 ballot.
when . Hertram C.sr, the nominee of
the Citirens' party, was chosen last night.
(He rei-eived nine vote, to eicht for
Thomas 15. Ilassett. nominee of the Inde
pendent Citizens" caucus.
Fiegnlar meeting of Harmon hive. No.
1. W. li. A. O. T. M,"iil be held ia K.
.f P. hall Wednesday evening. Jun. 6. at
7:31 o' lock. The rewtdkeep r w ill he t
tL ball early to receive aeiuciiU,
NINE WERE KILLED
in
Ey Accidental Explosion of Shell
Lyons Artillery Park.
Lyons, Frnce, Jan. 5. Fight soldiers
and one ciii'iai. were kdied and 19 sol
ders and one civjiisti were injured M'n-
osy ty the ni dental e !ion of a shell land rt-tirs-d
United States is Gainer in Commercial
Realm by Reason of War.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 5. How the
United States through the accident of a
world war has moved from its place
as a commercially provincial and seeond
ry power to the rank of first impor
tance among the great nations of the
World economically, industrially and
financially is told in detail in the first
annual report of Dr. Edward E. Pratt,
chief of the foreign and domestic com
merce bureau of the department of com
merce.
What the country has gained tern
porarily through the fortunes of the
European conflict, says the report, it
can hope to hold in the commercial
struggle that will be resumed at the
conclusion of peace , only by the most
far-sighted 'commercial preparedness.
Two gra'e problems face development
and maintenance of foreign trade. The
first is declared to he that of finance
and the second that of training men
for the work.
"The financing of our foreign trade,"
it says, "and in fact by far the larger
part of the financing of the world's trade.
has hitherto been done through London.
During the last hundred years London
has been the world's financial market.
She has held her position not because
of prestige merely, but because the na
tions of the world needed an interna
tional clearing house and London sup
plied that. At the same time London
became the clearing house chiefly be
cause she supplied a large part of the
capital needed for public improvements
and large private enterprises.
"The L'nited States never has taken
any large part in financing foreign trade
because of the comparatively small part
of that business carried on here and be
cause also of the famliarity of many
of our bankers with the methods of in
ternational finance. Nor has the I'nited
States taken any large part in supply
ing capital to other countries. On ac
count of more profitable investments at
home we have chosen to invest here
rather than abroad. This also has Wen
true because of our position as a debtor
nation, but probably also to a consider
able degree because of a 'mental debtor
nation attitude' on the part of our finan
ciers.
On acount of the war this situation
is rapidly changing. The volume of for
eign business done through New York
ie continuously increasing and New York
banks are rapidly providing facilities for
Americans who wish to export. Dolla
exchange, a thing practically unheard o
prior to this year, Is assuming constant
ly enlarging importance in the financia
world and is rapidly becoming popular
as a means of meeting international ob
ligations.
Two provisions in the federal reserve
act, the report says, have been of mate
rial assistance to the foreign trade. One
is the introduction of the use of accept
ance and the other permission granted to
national banks to establish foreign
brandies.
PROGRESSIVES IN CONFERENCE.
State Committee Met in Burlington to
Instruct State Chairman.
Burlington, Jan. G. The state
mittce of the Proirressivo imrty met in
this city yesterday afternoon and uveii
ing with tho state chairman, Dr. II. Nel
son Jackson, in the parlors of the Hotel
Vermont. The meeting was hold to give
the members of the committee an oppor
tunity to commit with Dr. Jacksou as
to the stand he shall take at the na
tional committee meeting of the party
to bo held in Chicago next Monday, for
which he will leave Burlington Satur
day, and also "to give the members an
opportunity to meet lialbcrt Puine Gar a
ner, natioual committeeman of the Pro
gressive purty-of Maine, who is also
acting for the national executive com
nuttee, keeping in touch with the senti
ment in thu different states of New .ng
land and in the West.
Dr. Jackson presided over the meeting
at which there was expression by at
tendance or through letter or telephone
communication from all the committee
men of the stito with the exception of
two who were not heard from. There
was one resignation, that of B. A. Sum
ner, committeeman from Washington
county. J a .
Dr. Jackson, when asked if he had
anything to say in regard to the resig
nation, stated that all lie had to say
was that lr. Sunnier was the aide part
ner of Charles II. Thompson, and that
is resignation was read ami accepted at
the meeting.
lhere were present-at the meeting, be
sides Dr. Jackson and Mr. Gardner, E.
Kelley of Salisbury from Addison
county, U. A. Kixford of East liighgate
from Franklin county, M. C. Lovejoy of
S'towe, D. E. Martin of Rutland, J. C.
Jones of Rutland, H,C Pope of Benning
ton, M. C. Reynolds and Mrs. Guy H.
Horton and G. L. ' Reuse, representing
Mrs. Jeannette Pease.
4W. J. Aldrich of '8t. Johnsbury sent
letter of instruction. Letters and
eh'idione message xwera received from
Judge E. W. Gibson -of Brattleboro and
M. M. Wilson of Randolph, detained by
the supreme court at Montpelier, from
Rev. frazer Metzger Of Randolph, de
tained by church work. Letters were
also received from Mis Mary Cabot of
Brattleboro, F. H. Wwards of Richmond;
E. C. Skiir.er of Orleans, J. E. Ward of
Barre, who is out of the state, Dr. J. II,
ISlodgett of Bellows Falls, George M,
Moore of Ludlov F. L. Russell of
Shrewsbury, W. H. Nichols of Benning
ton and i. it. Edwards of Richmond.
The two member Hot heard from were
F. F. Howard of Woodstock and Dr. A,
E. Parlin of Island Pond.
REPUBLICANS
IN CONTROL
Of Massachusetts Legisla
ture, Which Was Con
vened To-day
II. G. WELLS ELECTED
SENATE PRESIDENT
Channing H. Cox Was Re
elected Speaker of
the House
Boston, Jan. 6. With Republicans in
control of both branches of the Massa-
husettt legislature, which convened to
day for its 137th session, Henry (J. Wells
of Haverhill was elected president of
the Senate and Channing II. Cox of Bos
ton was re-elected speaker of the House.
Governor-elect Samuel W. MeCall and
Lieut.-Gov.-elect Calvin Coolidge will be
inaugurated to-morrow.
FATAL ILLNESS TOOK
MAN IN STONESIIED
SHEVLIN LEFT $3,500,000.
William T. Trenowcth was Stricken with
Apoplexy While Working at Wil
liam Cole & Sons Plant Yes
'terday Afternoon.
While working at the banker in th
plant of William Cole & Sons on Black
well Btrect yesterday afternoon, William
T. Irenoweth, a well known Jiarre gran
ite cutter, was stricken with apoplexy
Ho was removed to his room at 7 Beck
lev street and later to the City hospital
where he passed away around 10 o'clock
last night. So far as can be learned Mr,
Trenoweth has no relatives in Barre,
The remains were taken to B. W. Hook
er & Co.'g undertaking establishment and
plans for the funeral are to be made lat
er.
Mr. Trenoweth was alone in one corner
of the stoneshed when he fell over back
wards. A man working just outside the
door noticed his condition and a physi
cian was summoned. hue the doctor
was reviving the man, an ambulance was
called, but it was decided to remove the
sick man to his room. In tho early
evening it seemed that his condition was
mproving, but later it took a turn for
the worse and he was rushed to the hos
pital
Air. Trenowcth was around 4t years
old, a native of England, and for 15
rears a resident of Barre. He eame to
America at the age of 20 vcars and for
a time was employed in Westerly, R. I,
In 1000 he came to this city and shortly
afterward entered the employ of Cole &
Sons. A brother living In Ixindon and a
sister who resides elsewhere in England
are the onlv known relatives surviving
famous Yale Football Flayer's Widow to For the past two years Mr. Trenowcth
Get $60,000 a Year. had made lua home with Mr. and Mrs.
jHumuBpuiiu, uan. o. xne win 01 me i, i;., i ,....,.. ;
f .1.1! ., i J 1 1 , . . . I Miwv,
i,hmi mr, no aieu nere iasi wcck x-. f Aaat. . ,i;c;nt ,,,.
ftcr a brief illness was filed 1 for probate L fri4,ml8 He wa ft man of d
yesterday. The entire estate, the esti-
l,D; j . :i :
mated value of which is WJOO.000, is Ue wor,d wtep.
iciv io me wiuow ana two cnnaren.
The executors, business associates of
the late lumberman, also are named as
trustees of the estate, a large part of
which is placed in trust until the two
children reach the age of 30. The mon
ey then will be equally divided between
them. Mrs. Shevlin will receive an an
nual income of $(0,000. in addition to
money, from certain holdings.
Although Mr. Shevlin s life was heav
MUSIC HEARD 33 MILES.
TOP OF HEAD BLOWN OFF.
Lancaster, N.
in
la tie aitUiery f-ajk.
H., Youth Had Been
Poor Health.
Lancaster, N. H., Jan. 5. Francis Flan
ders, 17-year-old son of Mr. and Mrs. liuy
landers, was found dead in his room
yesterday, with the ton of his head blown
off and a gun lying beside bis bed. Death
is lielieved to have resulted from an acci
dent.
Mrs. Flanders was kindling the fire as
usual, wnen srie neara a muffled explo
sion. tier nrst thought wag that she
might have put a cartridge in the stove,
but as the fires were burning all right
she stepiied to the hova' room. I'doii
opening the door, she found the room full
of smoke and the gun on the floor bv
he bed. Lee, the younger brother, as
akc, but verv min-'n daned and had no
dea anything eerioua bad happened. Mrs.
Flandeta reached the bedside, where she
ound rranrm lifeless, with a terrible
wound in his head.
Monday evening the bovs cleaned their
guns and placed them in their signing
room, where they were a"custorr.ed to
n-p them. After they In. I finished,
rancis complained of a -vTe headache
He had been in poor b-.-a.ltii
By Telephonic Connection Mrs. John A.
Mead Heard Program of Her Gift
Middlebury, Jan. 5. The chime of
bells presented by ex-Gov. John A. and
Mrs. Mary Sherman Mead to Middlebury
college and iinng in the tower of the
Mead memorial chapel were inaugurated
into service yesterday afternoon when
a concert program f 14 selections was
given. Ex-Gov. Mead was present but
Mrs. Mead, who was unable to come to
Middlebury, was permitted to listen to
the concert through telephonic connec
tions to her home in Rutland, a distance
of 3.3 miles.
Dr. Mead in company with President
John M. Thompson, other members of
the college faculty and many students,
who returned for the opening of tho
winter term, stood on the campus and
heard the famous hymn, "God Be With
You," written bv a Middlebury college
graduate, J. E. Rankin, played upon the
bells.
The bells were rung by E. A. Menecly
of the firm of Meneely & Co., of Wat- j
ervltet, .N. v., and the program was ar
ranged by the chinier especially for the
approval of Dr. Mead. The program
was as follows: "Trinity Chimes,"
"Doxology," "Lead Kindly Light," "Sicil
ian Mariners," "Abide With Me," "Je
sus Ixiver of My Soul," "The King of
Love," "Joy to the World," "Columbia,"
"Old Kentucky Home," Marching
Through Georgia." "The Holv City,"
"God He You," and "Auld Lang
Syne."
T(ie chime of 11 bells, the largest
weighing 2,444 pounds and the smallest
279 pounds, total in weight 10.531;
pounds. The tones are F and F sharp,
G sharp, A and A sharp, B C sharp, Dj
and D sharp, E and F sharp. The bells
are composed of 78 parts pure-copper and
.iz parts imported block tin.
Each bell bears the inscription:
"l'resented to Middlebury college bv
John Abner and Marv Sherman Mead."
"Ring in the valiant man and free,
The larger heart, the kindler hand,
Ring out the darkness of the land.
Ring in the Christ that is to be."
day and it was only a few minutes to
whistle time when he fell awav from his
stone and lost consciousness.
FUNERAL OF B. N. CUTIS
E. 0
Was Held Tuesday Afternoon N
P. Members Attended.
Funeral services for Burton N. Cutts
ily insured, onlv $2r,,000 is payable to w,1 TS! aVr"7 h'S hm?' 44,Acad"
the widow, $1,500,000 being payable to "y. "treet, Saturday evening after a
two companies of which he wis 'head. ,.on ,I'ne88' at, h"se Tues-
BURIAL IN LITTLETON.
Of George L. Johnson, the Well Known
Lumber Manufacturer.
Plymouth, N. If., Jan. 5. Geonre L,
Johnson of Lincoln died yesterday of to which Mr. Cutts belonged
dav afternoon at 2 o'clock, Rev. E. F.
Newelf, pastor of the Hedding Methodist
church, officiating. The bearers were:
Ora Gregware and John II. Johnson,
brothers-in-law of the deceased, Fred E.
Cutts and Charles Gokey of Montpelier.
Among those who attended were repre
sentatives of Barre lodge, N. E. O. 1'.,
Interment
pneumonia.
Mr. Johnson was a senior member of
the firm of G. L. Johnson & Co., whole
sale lumber manufacturers of Lincoln
Mr. Johnson came to Lincoln from Lit
tleton 20 vears aco. erected larce aaw-
mills and cave . eniD ovment to several -Moiupener.
hundred men "lle floral tributes were as follows
He was 65 years old and leaves five 08PB- E- O. P.: narcissus. Mr. and
children. His wife died a few vears Mr- Bradford; carnations, airs.
aeo. The body will be taken to Little- Nellie Kidder and family; narcissus and
Mas made in the family lot in Elmwood
cemetery.
Among those present from out of town
were Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Goker of North-
field, Mr. and Mrs. C. N. Gokev of Mont
pelier and Mr. and Mrs. L. G. Derrick of
MANY COURT
ENTRIES MADE
Washington County Court
Promises to Be Busy
Well into February
PLAINFIELD CASE
WAS TAKEN UP
Bertha I. Wood Sues to Re
cover for Services
as Teacher
Business in Washington county court
this forenoon consisted of the docket be
ing called by Judge Waterman, all of
the cases listed on the court calendur,
divorce calendar and cases removed f'
the jury calendar to the court v'
' kept
.v at least
1).
ton for burial.
MONTPELIER
roses, Mr. and Mrs. If. G. Stevens; car
nations, Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Leslie; car
nations and narcissus, Mr. and Mrs. .T. S.
Duncan; carnations. Mr. and Mrs. F. D.
Ladd; carnations, Harmon hive. No. 1,
Fred V. Gainei is in Hospital Because of Ladies 0f the Maccabees; narcissus, Mr.
Injury to Arm.
Fred V. Gaines is at Heaton hospital.
where he was taken Monday afternoon
following an injury sustained while
working in the Excelsior Granite com
pany's plant on Barre street. A piece c'u. W ,i
j of the tool which he was using broke,! Ta(.klioni Mr, jiri,'. Earl' Cu'mings;
and Mrs. Louis Bruva; carnations,' Mr.
and Mrs. E. A. Bugbee, Mr. and Mrs. C.
N. Gokey, Mr. and Ms. L. G. Derrick:
narcissus, Mr. and Mrs. F. E. Cutts and
Frank York; narcissus, Mr. and Mrs.
S. N, Parker and Mr. and Mrs. D. C.
Mrs. Fritz
being taken up for action,
indications that the court. '
in session well into F.e-V
n'd possibly longer.
Entries were nil. A. the following
cases, others being fussed or set for
hearing at this term:
Barro Savings Bunk & Trust Co. vs.
atali Vanetti, continued; F, II. Tracy
s. Joseph Canales, trover, discontinued;
National Bank of Barre vs. Fayette T.
Cutler, continued; Emma L. Temple vs.
John M. Sullivan, discontinued; Fred J.
Davis, receiver, vs. Irving J. Wilfore,
continued; Edward H. Deavitt vs. A. C.
Blanchard, discontinued; W. L. Parsons
Paul Tierney, trespass, continued;
E. Backus vs. J. L. Slocum, apt.,
ontinued; ' Hyde Park Lumber Co., vs.
VV. Cooley, continued; v. U. and
Sarah R. Lowe vs. J. E. Gillett, with the
court; Jeremiah C. Donahue vs. Joseph
Almon, no hearing; Norman McDon
i vs. McDonald. Cutler & Co.. con
tinued; F. and Paulina Ottonelli vs.
Mary and Charles Zanleoni, apt., con
fined; Morris Kitroser vs. L. Gould,
bel, discontinued; Nellie J, Roben vs.
I. M. Roscoe et al, discontinued; Marion
Dawlev vs. Fred L. Dvke. continued;.
Hattie M. Gordon vs. Peter Badord, eon-
nued; Nina Lovely vs. Fred A. Milan,
continued.
This afternoon the case of H. J. Slav-
ton vs. II. I). Camp, replerin, will be
ken up according to an announcement
made by the attorneys in the case.
Yesterday afternoon the case of Ber
tha I. Wood against the town of Plain
field, to recover salary for services as
teacher in the Plainfield schools, one of
the results of the "school war" which
was waged about a year ago, was heard,
there being a number of witnesses ex
amined, j "
It will be recalled that Prof. Wood and
his wife were ousted from their positions
as teachers in the school at Plainfield,
the action being taken by the directors.
They continued to teach and the school
was attended by nearly all the pupils.
Yesterday afternoon Orlando Martin, at
that time a school director and former
Superintendent Tibbitts of the school
district including Plainfield were the
principal witnesses. John V . Gordon
represented the plaintiff and Harry C.
jShurtleff the defendant.
euwng an ariery or large vein in m rarnation8 ,, nr nJ Mrg- w; p
ici arm, ana ne sunereu oonsmeraoiy Mann M (, ,f Tuh nnd Jrr aij
from loss of blood. His condition is Mrs. Albert Seott; carnations. Mr. and
sauBiaciory.
WAS PUT ON PROBATION.
Burlington Hotel Keeper Had Pleaded
Guilty of Serious Charge.
Burlington, Jan. 5. Lato Besery, the
proprietor of the Revere house on Bat
tery street, who was arrested a few
nights ago when the place was raided,
charged with keeping a house of ill
fame, faced that charge in city court
yesterday and was found guilty. The
cases against the three women who were
charged with being inmates of the place,
were nol prossed. Besery was sentenced
to the house of correction at Rutland
for not less than two years nor more
than three years. The sentence was
suspended and he was placed in the
custody of the probation officer for a
period of two vears. It was also stipu
lated that he shall not run the house he
is now running and that he shall keep
away from Mrs. Mary Weith. one of the
women arrested with him. Mary Weith,
who was charged with adultery, was
also in court and her rase was nol
grossed, as were those against Anna
iovd and Saraii '.Vilcox, the other two
arrested at the time of the raid, who
were charged with open and grosa lewd
ness.
ifrs. Leon Cumings; carnations, ladies
and pastor's union of the M. E. church:
Commissioner of Weights and Meas- piow, "Husband," from Mrs. Cutts;
ures t . H. Carpenter left this afternoon cross, "Hert. from the father, A. E.
for Boston, where he will attend the Cutts; wreath, "Brother," from Mrs. O.
two days' conference, which opens to-1 1. Gregware and Mrs. John II. Johnson.
morrow, of the Massachusetts sealers of
weights . and measures. ' TO BE GIVEN A TRIAL.
state factory inspector Allan taihoun
of Middlebury and his stenographer are pet Mont, j, Breach of
engaged for a few days at the State .
House in obtaining data from the oflice e Peace-
of the industrial accident board, the in- A 10 days' Bearch for Peter Monti,
formation to be used by Inspector Cal- wanted by the police in connection with
houn in his work throughout the state, a fracas which occurred in River street
Mrs. Joseph A. DeBoer, accompanied on Christinas dav, ended last night when
' her two daughters, Misses Minnie Chief Sinclair arrested the man in
Receiver Named in Quarry Tax Dispute.
Chancellor E. L. Waterman has ap
pointed J. Ward Carver master of the
American Quarries company's case to
determine the amount due the state for
taxes, some $!)0t) being in dispute. The
Dorchester Trust company of Boston is
trustee for Connecticut and other bond
holders, who own a million-ilollar mort
gage on the company's talc properties in
Waitsfield and Moretown.
J Frank H. Tracy, the receiver, has pe
titioned the court for leave to sell.
by
fr some tiaie.
CARBARN DESTROYED.
Ten Cars, Other Equipment and Three
Horses Also.
Gloucester, Mass.. Jan. S. A carbarn
f the Bay State railway, on Bay avenue.
si burn-d lt night, iih tea corn
en,-, other erU!t.-.i-.cnt and three homes.
Hie fiit h.irae ear errr run on Cape Ann
detrov.d. The r-i.wnt alue of
the projrty mat t imt-d by local oCi
cials at .bvut ?XVKa.
and Elizabeth DeBoer, left this morning
for New lork City.
Mary Tomasi, the little daughter of
B. Tomasi of Main street, was taken
this morning to Mary Fletcher hospital,
Burlington, where she will undergo an
operation for spinal trouble, the second
to be performed within the last few
months. She has been in a cast since
the first operation.
Gilbert Addy, manager of the Barre
Western I'nion Telegraph office is de
tained to his home on (lift street by an
attack of the grippe. His place is being
taken by William Carey of the local
offic.
Joey Clark of Rutland, a member of
the firm of Clark & MeMasters, ia mak
ing a tew davs business visit in the
citv.
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Sargent, who
have been visiting the letter's mother
in this city for several weeks, left last
night for Mt. Airy, N. C. Mr. Sargent
will be remembered as a former gran
ite manufacturer in this city. He is
now suM-rintemlent and part owner of
a big plant at Mt. Airy.
Mr. and Mrs. S. Vuesnel of Main
street have returned from Montreal,
where they went ten days ago to pass
New Year's with relatives. The holiday
was saddened by the death of Mr. Ques
nel's brother, Joseph, who succumbed to
pneumonia on New Year's day, after a
few days' illness. The funeral was held
Monday.
house in the same neighborhood where
the tight is alleged to have been staged.
When arraigned before Magistrate H. W.
Scott in city court this morning, Monti
entered a plea of not guilty and through
his attorney asked for a jury trial. Ac
cordingly a jury was drawn this after
noon for a hearing to be held to-morrow
morning at 9 o'clock. Grand Juror Wil
liam Wishart will appear for the state.
The police claim that Monti assaulted
one Charles Young, after he had entered
Young's house throush a rear window
and intimidated the head of the house
with a revolver. 11a il in Monti's case
was furnished.
George MeSwain. a Rochester woods
man, who was gathered in by Officer
Harry Gamble soon after his arrival in
town last night, pleaded guilty to being i
found intoxicated and elected the iail !
ASKS FOR NEW TRIAL.
James Watson Webb Takes Case to Su
preme Court.
In supreme court this morning argu
ments were made in the case of state of
Vermont vs. James Watson Webb, pur
suing deer illegally, the respondent
pleading for a new trial. The respond
ent was represented by WarTen R. Aus
tin of St. Allwins and the state by State's
Attorney Hopkins of Chittenden county.
The following opinions were handed
down yesterday afternoon:
AVashington county: C. S. Whittier vs.
Montpelier Ice Co. and G. W. Parmenter,
decree reversed and cause remanded for
mandate.
Washington county: State vs. Ehin C.
Gitchell, judgment for defendant af
firmed; cae gTcw out of ere -ting small
building on River street, Montpelier,
against city ordinance, it was alleged.
Caledonia county: John Went worth or
St. Johnsbury vs. Town of Waterhitrv,
judgment reversed, defendant tit recover
sentence in lieu of paying a $3 fine andjf,. ini,owor ,rt vor(li(,t wfts for
costs of $,.4.5,
FOUR NEW DIRECTORS
Voted in by Stockholders of Granite Say
ings Bank & Trust Co.
Yesterday's annual meeting of the
(Jranite Savings Bank A TniNt Co. closed
the bank's firct 30. year period of busi
ness in Barre. The lank was established
in 1 Four members added to the
directorate yesterday will serve with
lohn Trow. C I ( urrier, W ill A. Whit-
comb and Frank F. Cave. The new di-
Prin. E. S. Abbott of Montpelier high rector are: J. Wrd t arver, Arthur S.
school was one of the peaker list Martin. James T. Marrion and Charles
evening at a meeting of a parent-teacher "ism"
association held at Randolph. Prof. Ab
bott took as his suhject. "Why Am.-rknn
People Maintain Schools.
In probste court to-day, Timothy J.
Denning of Barre. was appointed admin
istrator of the estate cf Thomas Mrr,
late of Barre City.
Mr. and Mrs. diaries D. Mather of 1
Buhiwin street, left lat evening for
Ijo Ang' !. CaL, to pss the w irtr. as
h been th ir cuotom for the lai-t few
jear.
The directors orcsni7e-d bv electing the
following ofTi-ers: President. John Trow;
ice-presidents. ". L. Currier and F. F.
Cave; secretary-treasurer, Charles H
Wishart.
The memlier of St. John's court. No.
C. . F.. are requested to pay their
dues to Arthur J. IxvrsnirT during the
Hen of Kin. J-ee. J. K. VrXu'tv. lie- corl?
cemlwr dues nmt be tai i on or before "V
Jam. k. w H.
the plaintiff to recover $1 .".
Windham county: Li.-le M. Carpenter
vs. Central Vermont Railway Co., judg
ment reversed and cause remanded: low
er court verdict was for the plaintiff to
recover ?0.2."0.
Windham county: E. E. Rowley and
Martha E. Rowley vs. 'George W. Shep
ardon and Eia C. Siiepardson, judgment
reversed.
Windham county: Kinnear 4 Gager
Manufacturing Co. vs. Charles Miner,
judgment for the plaint iff affirmed; low
er court verdict for Mfi.1.3.1.
Frsnklin county: I'nadilla Silo Co. t.
M. A. Hall A Son. judgment reversed
and cause reman-led; lower court verdict
for the idaintiff to recover PHL2r).
Franklin county: James B-irash y.
Luke r. Martin and Howlsnd Bronson.
judgment in favor of the defendant af
firmed. OrVans county: Herbert L. Dailey vs.
Swift A Co, judgment for the plaintiff
affirmed; lower court verdict f 1 2..
Why is khc like a grsphojbone ree-
- he ta!k too mush"
me tht't ot a double fac."
r
