VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY. JANUARY 54q956 ' NUMBER2
PROHIBITION [M
C[Q8[S DISP[NSARI[S
Fifteen Counties Swing in
to -Dry Column
ACT NOW ALLOWS
GALLON A MONTH
Legislative Action Required to Dis
pose of Surplus Stocks. Rush of
Business Marks Final Day. Total
Income for Last Year More than
8,000,000. Manning Calls Upon Peo
ple to Aid Officers.
Columbia, Jan. 1.-When the sun
went down yesterday afternoon at 5:25
o'clock, the official closing time, South
Carolina swung into the dry column.
At midnight six other States, Iowa,
Colorado, Oregon, Washington, Idaho,
and Arkansas were added to the list.
Under the prohibition law indorsed
at an election held last September
dispensaries in the following coun
ties were officially closed: Aiken,
Beaufort, Bamberg, Barnwell, Char
leston, Calhoun, Dorchester, George
town, Jasper, Florence, Orangeburg,
Lexington, Richland, Union and Wil
liamsburg.
The sales in all these counties dur
ing the past ten days have been un
precedented in anticipation of the
final closing. The Bamberg county
board reported to L. T. fultman, the
State dispensary auditor, several days
ago that the entire stock had been
disposed of.
''he disposition of the surplus stock
'eld by practically all of the coun
ties, it is believed, will requi:'e legis
lative action. Gov. Manning has ro
fused to take action, declaring that
it was a problem to be decided by
the general assembly.
While no figures- have been pre
pared by the office of the State dis
pensary auditor, an unofficial esti
mate places the total sales by the dis
pensaries in 15 counties at more than
$3,000,000.
Nanning WilAgq ,
Gov. Manning in a statement issued
yesterday promised to use the power
of his office to enforec the law. He
called upon the people of the State
to aid in the enforcemenit of the new
*ensure. '1 M#=
The prohibition referendum elec
tilo was held last September when
the dispensaries reeived their "walk
lig papers" at the hands of about
56.000 voters. The election afoted
only 15 of the 44 counties in the
state, bu~t the question was submit
ted to the entire electorate.
ra Columbia yesterday was marked
by a constant stream of liquor par
hasers. From early morning until
ide eight dispensaries....were , cled
about 5:25 o'clock yesterday after
noon the clerks were busy, too busy
te wrap up the bottles, which many
of the customers carried away un
ashamed in "their pockets. All kinds
and conditions of people, the major
ity in most of the dispensaries being
negroes, got some hrand of whiskey
in exchange for their money. Good
order was maintained, members of
the piolice force being stationedl in
eachu dispensary in the afternoon.
T~very bill1 incurred by the county
dlispensalries, all running expenses and
incidientals have been paid by the
county beard, which coiits of .
W. II. D~uncan, chairman; James S.
Verner, secretary, and Sam T1. WVes
berry. Mr. Vernor said yesterday he
would have about $50,000' in cash and
about $25,000 worth of stock en hand
at its cost price. The sales yesterday
aggregatedl more than $12,000 which
was docuble the receipts of the preed
ing day. The sales for December
will amount to about $125,000 in Rich
land county.
The liquor loft over, consisting
.princip~ally of cheap rye and corn
whiskey, will be stored in the ware
house, whore it will be kept until the
legislature provides some lawful
means of disposing of it. A dletailed
rort of the amount on hand and
the rcei4pts wili be submitted. Mr.
Verner thinks tha't there will be not
more liquor held ovce than could he
disposed of in two weeks of ordinary
sales. All beer, all Scotch whiskey
and practically all wines have been
soid, and the pick between the
brands of rye and corn was exceed
inglr limited. In the early part of
December certain reductions in prices
were made on hulk stoods.-Tho State.
DI. W. A. SIIANDS
HAS PASSED AWAY
Died At His loe in Clinton Last Fri.
day Night. One of Clinton's Most
Prominent Citizens.
Clinton, Jan. 2.-1)r. W. A. Shands,
an old and highly esteemed citizen
of this place, died here Friday night
at the Lesh infirmary after a linger
ing illness covering several months.
The end came shortly before midnight.
The funeral services were held Satur
day afternoon at 4 o'clock at the First
Presbyterian church, being conducted
by the pastor, 1)r. Dudley Jones, as
sisted by the Rev. E. M. Lightfoot of
the First Baptist church. At the cem
etery, in the presence of a large as
semblage of sorrowing relatives and
friends, the final sad rites were said,
the service being in charge of the Ma
sonic lodge of which he was a faithful
and long standing member.
Dr. Shands was born in 1839 in
Spartanburg county near Glenn
Springs. At the age of 16 he had se
cured a common school education
and had decided to study medicine.
He moved to Cross Anchor and made
his home with his uncle, Dr. A. C.
Shands. In 1858 he entered the
Charleston Medical college to pursue
his study In his chosen profession.
lie was in college at the time that
South Carolina seceded, and in 18110
after his graduation he volunteered
and along with other comrades he
was sent to Richmond, where he en
listed in Company F, Fourteenth
South Carolina division, -McGowan's
brigade. In 1861 he was elected a
lieutenant and in the battle of the
Wilderness, he was wounded twice.
in 1866 he was married to Miss Evie
Pitts, daughter of Robert Pitts. At
this time he was enjoying a large
practice and was kept busy from
early morning until late night. He
took an active interest in politics and
in 1876 was elected one 9f the execu
tive' -6f nitteenidn froW hid county
and at the county convention follow
ing shortly thereafter, he was named
a delegate to the State convention in
which Wade Hampton was nom
inated for governor. In 1879 he
moved to Clinton and soon after mar
ried his second wife, Miss Rebecca
Copeland of this place. Later lie was
elected to the legislature by a large
vote and in this capacity he served
for two terms until he was forced
to give up the work on account of ill
health. Later he ,.Tjs elected mayor
of Olinton In which position he served
the city well for 15 years. HQ was the
first man to agitate, the building
through this section of the Seaboard
Air Line railroad and made surveys
and secured capital stock with which
to begin the operation of road. In
1900 he gave up his theo ge prac
tice and retired to private e. He
Was elected a member of the board of
trystees of the Thornwell orphanage,
a position he held up to the time of his
death, and he was aloyal friend of
the institution. He was a, deacon in
the Presbyterian church and always
manifested a deep interest in all
church work.
Dr. Shands was a man of decided
character, firm convictions and a high
sense of honor. Those who camne in
close contact with him were deeply
impressed by his personality andl
splendiid qualities of heart. liis love
for others had no self-consciousncss
ab~out it, but was implulsive and~ spon1
taneous and1( flowed from a sincerity of
nature as deep) as his heart. lie was
always true andl loyal to his friends
and family, lie was well known
thr'oughout the State and held in high
esteem, lie was a bravo soldier un
decr the South's great generals, and in
his passing lhe leaves the record of a
loving, honorable and useful life. Hie
is survived by his second wIfe anid
three children, Mrs. M. 10. Middleton
of 'Clemson College, WV. H. Shands of
thIs city and Claude Shands of Whit
mire.
J. J. Croswell D~ead.
News was received in the city Sat
urday morning of the death of Mr. .1.
JT. Croswell, at his home in lFayette
ville, N. C. Mr. Croswell was the
brother of Mrs. Mary C. Bowen, of
this city, and was well known here.
For forty years he was route agent
for the Southern Express Company
and was always held in the highest
estimation by his employers, Hie
'leaves a wife and one son. Ho was
the son of the late W. J. Croswell of
Sumter
MEETING OF COUNTY
T'AICHEIlS NEXT SATURDAY
First Meeting of the Year will be Ad.
dressed by Professor Patterson
Wardfaw of S. C. University.
The first regular meeting in the new
year of the Liiurens County Teachers
Association will be held in the school
auditorium of the Laurens (iraded
School next Saturday, beginning at
eleven o'clock in the morning. Prof.
Patterson Wardlaw of the University
of South Carolina will be the princi
pal speaker at this meeting. Ills sub
ject will be "The Making of a Success
ful School." Ills addresses on school
subjects have always been interest
ing and illuminating and his thorough
knowledge of the subject he has se
lected for Saturday assures every
hearer of a valuable address.
The first forty-five minutes of this
meeting will be spent demonstrating
and discussing methods of teaching
composition. Subjects selected for
the County School Fair contests will
be used. The following is the pro
gram:
11:00 to I:45-First, Second, Third
and Fourth grade discussion will
be led by Miss Alliene Franks.
(Graded school Auditorium).
11:00 to 11:15-Fifth, Sixth and Sev
enth grade discussion will be led
by Miss Agnew. (tRoom Five).
11:00 to i1:-15-1Eighth, Ninth and
Tenth grade c:iscussion will be led
Ily Miss K bler. (Room Nine).
11:45 to 11:50-Reecess.
11:50 to 12:35--Address, by Prof. Pat
terson Wardlaw.
12:35 to 1:00-Business Session.
1:00 to 2:00-Luncheon. (Guests of the
County Board of Education).
SALES IAROELY A'TENDED.
A Number of Places Change Hands
at Public Sales Monday.
Monday being legal salesday a large
number of people were in the city at
tending thorn. A large amount of land
was put up for sale, but some very
valuable pieces of property which had
been advertised were withdrawn. The
following sales were made:
Clerk of Court.
In the case of S 0. Hughes, vs L. A.
Stephens, 53 acres on Rabun creek,
sold to S. 0. Hughes for $1,410.
Mrs. J. W. McDowell vs C. Y. (Gar
ott, 79 acres, sold to Mrs. C. Y. Gar
rett, for $7,028.
C. A. Power, Clerk of Court, vs H.
E. Gray, et al, certain lota i the city
of Laurens, bought by N. Douglas
Gray, agent, for $3,600.
- Sheriff.
In the case of W, Hampton Cobb, as
eceiver of Carolina Agency Company,
Na John Y. Garlington, 2 tracts of land
in Jacks township, aggregatig about
636 acres, sold to P. M. Pitts for $5 per
acre; all the remaining trackm, except
a tract in the city of Isurens which
should not have been advertised for
sale, sold to V. T. Graydon, Attorney, at
$2 per acre.
E~vie Fowlor vs F'rank Williams, one
bt in city of Imurens sold for' $800 and
25 acres of land near the city sold for
$1,250, both to Piedmont Burial ilenev
olent Association.
Probate Judlge.
Mrs. TLola Boyd, as administratrix of
M. C. lloyd, 107 aeres of M. C. lloyd
home place to Mrs. Lo~la lloyd for
$1,450.
P. A. Riddle, adm. of D). C. Rlhode's,
19 acres D). 0. Rhodes home place, sold
to D). M. Riddle for $500.
INSTAILL.ATION AT (tRAY (00UlWT.
Masonic Lodge Installs Offk'ers for the
Year 191(6.
Installation exercises of Schroder
Lodge No. 144, A. Pi. M., of Cray Court,
wore held in the lodge hall on Christ
mas night. Trhe following ofmiers
wore Installed for the coming year:
J1. W. Wells, Wt. M.; A. C. Shell, S. W.;
H. S. Wallace, J. W.; W. IH. Banrksdale,
secretary; C. B. Shell,TPreasurer; S8. C.
Hill. S. T).: J. Il. Wham, JT. D.; W. It
Henderson and J. HI. Riddle, Stewards;
W. W. Yeargin, Tyler. The lodge is in
a prosperous condlition and a prosper('
eus year is anticipated.
Moved Back to Country.
Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Weathers, who
have been living in the cIty for several
years, moved back to their country
home in the Pea Ridge section the first
of the wook, Their home here will be
occuptod by M~r. and Mr's. J. 0. floyd,
who have been living in the Garling
ton house on Elast Main street.
GENEJtL ASSEimfILY TO
CONVENE NEXT WEEK
Seventy-First Session Does Not Prom.
Ise to he a Very Exciting One. Few
.New leIlbers.
Columbia, Jan. 1.-The second ses
sion of the 71st General Assembly of
South Carolina will convene in Co
lIumbia on Tuesdlay, January 11, at
noon. lBoth houses are organized and
the preliminaries should consume very
little time. The Hlouse will be called
to order by Speaker James A. Hoytt
and the Senate by Lieut. Andrew J.
Bllethea or, in his absence, by Senator
Legrand Walker, of Georgetown, the
President pro tem. The Lieutenant
Governor went to Europe with Henry
Ford's pacification expedition, and he
may not get back until after the open
ing day of the session.
'The annual message of Governor
Richard 1. Manning will probably be
read In both branches on the opening
day. The referring of this message to
the proper committees will likely be
all that is accomplished at the initial
meeting.
New Members.
There will be three new members
sworn in by Speaker Hoyt in the
House of Representatives. J. Terry
Wood, of Greenville, takes the place of
A. M. Hawkins, who resigned to de
vote his time to teaching; 11. It. Del
ser, of Sumter, will occupy the seat
of George W. Dick, of Sutmer, who
resigned to become postmaster of his
native city; It. II. iicks, of Spartan
burg, succeeds W. G. Querry on that
delegation, Mr. Querry resigning to
accept a position on the State tax
commission.
There will be only one new face in
the Senate from Clarendon county
succeeding to the seat made vacant by
the death of Louis Appelt, which oc
curred after the close of the session
last year.
The resignation of Representative
Dick, of Sumter, left vacant the chair
manship of the ways and means com
mittee and Speaker Hoyt appointed
Representative J. T. Liles, of Orange
burg, to the vacancy.
There are no indications on the eve
of the session of any matters of
unusual interest to come up. There
may be considerable discussion of pro
posed amendments and changes in the
Tax Commission Act, but it is not be
lieved that any considerable altera
tions will be made. It has been inti
mated that a fight may be made in the
Senate on the confirmation ' of the
tax commissioners for the Act pro
vided that they should be appointed
by the Governor, by and with the con
sent of the Senate. It has been
rumored that because of opposition of
certain ones to the action of the com
mission in assessing the banks a fight
might be made when they come up
before the Senate for confirmation.
The names which will be sent in by
Governor Manning as the members of
the commission are: A. W. Jones,
chairman; J. P. Derham and W. G:
Querry.
Another appointment which will be
submitted to the Senate for confirma
tion by the governor is that of D~r. C.
Fred Williams as superintendent of
the State Hospital foir tho Insane.
The most interesting election to0 be
held biy thle General Assembly will be
that of warehouse commissIoner. .lohn
L. .\eLauirin is tile presenlt, 'omilS
sloner and he will be opposed for re
election by .John .1. .\lc.\l ahan of Ce
Ilumnbia, at present. a mem beri of the
delegation from ltichland county. This
lIght is beglining to attract. att m~ition
and may take oin consider',ih of a
iiolitical signitleanice heferm' it in
through.
An effort to strengthen the local oip
tien comp~ulsory school attendance law
may be made ini the legislature. Some
of the advocates of compulsory educa
tion are not satisfied with the present
Act, but want to make it State-wvide
immediately. Othgers priop~ose to make
the change gradually.
One of the recommendations which
will be made by the governor in his
annual message will be the passage of
tihe Trorrens system of land registra
tion, and there are indications that
this may be done. Th'le governor will
point out that tIts step is necessary
before a rural credits system enn be
enacted, and it is believed that ho will
umake strong recommendations towarL id
the passage of a system of ruriai cred
its.
The recommendations to strengthen
and pierfect the State warehouso sys
tem, education, rural credits, diversi
fled farming and economy will be
(Conntinued on Page t~onr.)
'OV R $5,000 1)ISJIItSEI)
IN CORPORATION DIVIDENDS
Stockholders Receive (hecks at the
teginnlng of the New Year.
The hearts of the bank, trust con
pany and cotton mill stockholders
were made glad on the first of the
year by the receipt of dividend cheeks
from the various institutions of the
county. According to the figures con
piled by The Advertiser over $50,000
was disbursed at this dividend period,
banking houses generally paying 4
per cent semi-annually. Several of
the younger institutions paid less or
voted their surplus into reserve fund.
Cotton mills, also, divided up pro
fits among its stockholders in most in
stances. The following are the
amounts paid out by the various con
cerns:
Enterprise National Bank, 4 per
cent on $100,000 .. .. .. ..$ 4,000
Peoples Loan & Exchange Bank,
8 per cent on $100,000 .. .. 8,000
'aurens National Bank, 4 per
cent on $50,000 .. .. .. .. .. 2,000
Palmetto Bank, 4 per cent on
$~0,000 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2,000
Farmers Bank, 2 1-2 per cent on
$50,000 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1,250
Laurens Trust Company, 4 per
cent on $47,000 .. .. .. .. 1,880
First National Bank, Clinton, 1
lpr cent on $50,000 .. .. .. .. 2,000
Commercial Hank, Clinton, .1 le'r
cent on $35,oo .. .. .. .. .. ..1,00
Hank of Cross liill, 1 per cent
Oil $25,000 J..... ...........1000
Bank of (;Gray ('ourt, 1 per cent
Oil $25,000 .. .. .. .. .. .. 1,000
Bank of Waterloo, 1 per cent on
$25,000 .. .... .. .. .. .. 1,000
Commercial Loan & Trust Co.,
Clinton, .1 per cent on $25,000 1,000
Laurens Cotton Mills, 3 per cent
on $250,000 .. .. .. .. .. .. 10,500
Clinton Loan & Trust Co., 4 per
cent on $25,000 .. .. .. .. .. 1,000
Clinton Cotton Mills, 2 per cent
on $300,000. ....0,000
Lydia. Cotton Mills, 2 per cent
on $150,000 .. .. .. .. .. ..3,000
Banna Mfg. Co., Goldville, 3 1-2
per cent on $100,006 (approxi
mately) preferred stock ... ..3,500
Total .. .. .. .. .. .... .. 50,530
MRS. JEFF D. SEXTON.
Died at Her HoRne in This City Friday
Afternoon. ?Iurfrj Saturday.
Mrs. Lida Taylor Sexton, wife of Mr.
Jeff 'D. Sexton, died at her home in this
city Friday afternoon just before six
o'clock. She . had been sick for only
a short time, so her death came as a
great shock to her numerous friends.
The burial services were held at the
Laurens cemetery Saturday afternoon,
being conducted by her pastor, Rtev. J.
R. T, Major, of the First Methodist
church.
Mrs. Sexton is survived by her bus
band, two daughters, Mrs. Herbert
Chaney, of Laurens, and Mrs. Paul
Alexander, of Spartanbrug, and one
son, Alderman S. Boyd Sexton, of ti6
city. Two sIsters, Mrs. R. [i. Sexton,
of Spartanburg, and Mrs. Imtmas
Templeton, of Cross Anhcor, als. sur
vlve her. Mirs. Sexton was a faith'fai
member of tile Methodist chruchl andl
was a womanl of many3 fine traits of
chIaracter.
hiGG'bESTi ll1'Si NESS EVE II.
lied I ron itacket Rieports limxrest Hits.
iniess In lt~s (areer for 19i1..
Th'le lied Itoin Itacke&t cnl is at ten
(Ion to its New Year let tet and ae
cotrdtng to the sta temen'its of tihe man
ager It has occasionl to feel grateful
for the year's butsiness. Mr. Buriins
of thte Company says that tile Green
wood store has had tile biggest and[
best bulsiness It hlas ever enjioyed in
(Greenwoodl. Thle lRed li'on Racket is
onle of tile big and1 persistent adlver.
tlsors of thIs section and the fact that
business han grownl so is proof of the(
value both of advertIsIng and also of
the value of hlaving for sale thle goods
0o10 adlvertses.--Grteenwoodl Index.
Pl'ieWee(ing to be Held at the Lau
r'ens Mill School HIouse, Monidal
Night, .Jan,. 10th.
Cottonwood Camp No. 725 wIll hold
a plublic meeting in the school house
of the0 Laurens cotton mill Monday
night, January 10th, begInnIng at I
o'clock. Speeches will be made by
Rtev. J. A. Brook, Hon. R. A. Cooper,
.Past Junior Consul C. A. Power, M. W.
Bobo, Spartanburg, and others. The
public Is cordially invited to attend.
ON SUN[N 8HI
Steamer Persia Sunk With
Loss of Life
DE FAIL S AWAITED
OF THE DISASTER
Washington. Officials, whine not Deny
lug (Oravity of the Situation, With
hold Comment utntil Further Details
are Secured from, Survivors.
London, Jan. 1.-The British liner
Persia, carrying more than 200 pas
sengers and a crew of between 250
and 300 men, was stnk by an uniden
tifled submarine at 1 o'clock Thurs
(lay afternoon off the island of Crete,
in the eastern :Meditorranean. Re
ports to the Peninsular and Oriental
Steam Navigation company said that
nearly all on board were lost. Robert
McNeely of Monroe, N. C., American
consul at Aden, Arabia, and Robert
Grant of Boston were on the liner.
Four boats are known to have got
away from the sinking vessel, each
c'apable of carrying 00 persons, but it
is not known if tho boats were full.
I''he rescued were picked up by a
steamer bound for Alexandria, where
they are expected to arrive today.
l'eninsular :nd Oriental line ollicials
said they reeeived no details concern
ing the disaster and did not know
whether the Persia received warning.
They also were unable to give any in
formation concerning Americans on
the ship.
Washington, .Ian. 3.-President Wil
son started to Wtishington from Hot
Springs, Va., tonight to take personal
charge of the nation's foreign affairs
in t.hacnew crisis brought about by
the sinking of the British steamship
Persia with 1.he loss of at least one
American life. The situation is re
garded in official circles as being the
most serious to confront this govern
ment since the submarine operations
of the central powers began.
The president will probably lay the
facts thus far established before the
cabinet tomorrow. The destruction of
the Persia following upon the crisis
precipitated by the Ancona disaster
may esult in the United States deter
mining to settle imnediately all ques
tions involved in the submarine war
fare. The subject is expected to find
its way to the Boor of the house and
senate tomorrow when congress re
convenes after the holidays.
President Wilson deelded to cut
short his honeymoon and rsturn to
the capital at once after telephone
conferences with 'Secretary Lansing
and Mr. Tumulty, his private seeO
tary. It was found however, that he
could not conveniently start until
8:45 tonight. lie should arrive at 7
o'clock tomorrow morning.
The United States is reported to
night as being prepared andi deter
mined to take any action that the facts
concerning tile Persia may warrant,
Om11cals are trying to view tile situa
tionl with open mindis, but it is alp
pa rent that they are distur bed by the
reports r'ecei ved from consul Iar agents
at Alexandria and Cairo, Egypt.
1Every (ff6rt will lhe made to es
tablish the ltruth of the report, that theo
P'ersia was torpedoed withbout Iwarning
Seecret ary' Laniln g 'onltemnplates t ak
lng no steps uti iitIhe compleite details
are known.
Oflials find one sorurce of gratii
cation in assurances given by Haron
Erich Zwiedinek, charge of tile Auls
tro-H'iungarian embassy. to Secretary
Lansing during a conference today at
the state department. flaron Zwiedl
nok is said to have expressedl the be
lief that the final explanation of tile
latest incident would he satisfactory.
ie Is said to have assured the secre
tary of his belief that if all Austrian
sublmnarinle commander violated the
principles of international law anti the
rules of humanity his government
would take action which would fully
satisfy the U'nited States. Baron
ZAwiedinek also sought information for
the benefit of is government,
SwIter To Have Sale.
Tile big semi-annual Clearance Sala
of Switzer Company will commence
next Friday, .Jan. 7th. These salest
are heldl twice each year and offer
many bargains; to the peoople of th6
anuniv.
