i n if .Jh rr
I, I.
" -vj ... i ' j ,
DAILY EDITION
VOL, Vf., No, 01. O HV CHANTS PAKH, JCWKI'IIIXE COUNTV, OREGON, WEDNESDAY, JAJTUARV 8, 1916V ' ' . 4 WHOLE NUMBER 163a.
v ;;. ,,. j No Other Town in the World the Size of Orants Pass lias a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service. "
1SS
Wilson and Lansing Confer
Over Latest International
Complications, But Are Not
Yet Ready for Action
Washington, Jan. . 6. President
"Wilson called Secretary Lansing Into
conference regarding the Internation
al situation arising from the Persia
case shortly boforo 11 o'clock today.
At tbo conclusion of nearly an
hour's session, Lansing said the coun
try Is "still raiting for tit facta"
In the Perils case.
The secretary hoped that Ambas
sador Penflold at Vienna would be
ablo to enlighten the admlnltratlon
within a day on the details of the
case. Indications were that a cer
tain time will be given for informal
Inquiries at Vienna, and if these de
velop nothing, specific requests will
be made on Austria to aid the admin
istration in determining the nation
ality of the submarine which attack
ed the Persia. That It was Austrian,
'however, was the impression, inas
much ft only Austrian submarines
a reported to have boon operating
In tho Mediterranean. .
iAs far as other negotiations be
tween Austria and America are con
cerned all evidence indicated that
the situation la clearing. Lansing
said that probably no further noto
will be sent to Austria in the Ancona
case. This indicates that the loose
ends In that situation will be settled
In conferences with Charge d'Affalros
Zwledenek. , . '
If it is Anally found that an Aus
trian diver sank the Persia, there Is
a strong Indication that the fact that
the liner oarrted a gun will be the
main bone of contention. Lansing
said in th! connection that naval
authorities probably will bo asked to
determine the efficacy of the Persia's
4.7 inch gun. with a view to show
ing, whether its presence was lufll
dent excuse for an unwarned attack.
Lansing, denied that the govern
ment la considering a note to Aus
tria yet. . With regard to a report
that the administration would warn
Americans not to travel on armed
merchant vessels, he declared that It
"had not been discussed.
OFFERS REV-
, (By United Press Leased Wire.)
Saa Francisco, Jan. 6. Yuan Shi
Kai has offered big rewards for the
arrest of taong Kl Chu, eminent
Chlnoee statesman, and other prom
Inent men of China who oppose his
ascendency to the throne, according
to Shanghai and Pekin cables to the
China World, a iocal Chinese news
paper, today.
Leong Kt Chu is reported to be
hiding at Shanghai, awaiting a favor
able opportunity to stowaway on a
hip to America. Cables to the China
"World also stated that Funk Kwak
Fun and Chong Fun, governors of the
southern provinces, had appealed to
"Yuan Shi Kai to relinquish his mon
archlal plans or the southern pro
vinces would secede.
' I
Washington, Jan. 8. -Expenditure
of $1,250,000 for a 16-foot levee at
Volcano lake, . to prevent flooding of
the Imperial valley, California. Is
; Justified, General W. L. Marshall, a
Kovernmenr engineer, reported to
congress today.
MRUS
FOR
OPPOIIEIITS
AUSTHIANS ARE
FORCES ACROSS
THE RIVER PRUTH
London, Jan. 6. Under heavy
bombardment, tbo Austrians have re
tired acroes the Prutb, north of
Cnexnowltx, Bukovlna, according to
Bucharest message today, which,
however, did not confirm Potrograd
reports of Russian occupation of the
city.. . ;
In their retirement the Austrian!
were said to have blown up two of
tho Pruth bridges. Meanwhile the
Russians were reported to be shelling
tho south side bridgeheads, In an at
tempt to ford the river.
Inasmuch as the Bucharest-mes
sage was not dated, it Is regarded as
possible that It was filed before re
ports of the Oernowlts evacuation
reached there. The Hague reports
said civilians had been ordered to
leave portions of Czernowits, and
claimed that the Austrians are rein
forcing their lines in that region.
The Russian war office said merely
that Slav forces had occupied a line
of trenches northeast of Cserndwits
and had repulsed enemy counter
attacks. '
PORTLAND STILL
HOPES
L
'Oy United Press Leased Wire.)
Portland, Jan. . There's still hope
tor Sunday baseball in Portland, even
though three federal judges have in
jected life Into a blue law of the vin
tage of 1864.
Baseball .fans realized this today
when Circuit Judge Gantenbcln an
nounced that the final hearing for a
permanent Injunction restraining
Multnomah county officials from en
forcing the law will be held tomor
row. - ':- "
Twice in the face of contrary su
preme court decisions Judge Ganten
bcln , has declared , the hoary old
statute unconstitutional. For this
reason It Is not believed 'that the
federal court decision will deter him.
Neither the state supreme court nor
the federal court passed directly up
on the point which Judge Gantenbein
declares unconstitutional,' the , old
law which menaces baseball. Judge
Oantenbeln's two decisions declared
the law unconstitutional because it
refers to Sunday as "Lord's day."
This constitutes religious legislation,
the Judge said, and is contrary to the
constitution of the United States.
Judgo Oantenbeln's doclslon will ap
ply only to thla county and will not
prevent the enforcement of the dol
ing law la the rest of the state.
TUB KAISRll HONORS -':".'
GERMAN CONSUL BOPP
(By United Press Leased Wire.) "'
San Francisco, Jan. 5. Kaiser
Wllhelm has sent German Consul
Bopp here the Red Eagle of the third
class. ' '".'.
ATTEMPT MADE BY .
T RIDERS TO
KILL ATTORNEY
, (By United Press Leased Wire.) '
' Ada, Okla., Jan. 5. -Night riders
attempted early today to assassinate
County Attorney A, L. Bullock, tout
ha esoaped death by throwing himself
to- the floor after he heard the grat
ing of a shotgun barrel on the sill of
the library on the ground floor of his
home, where he . , was sitting. A
charge of buckshot rattled over his
head just as he dodged.
A por-i with bloodhounds U hunt
ing thtvr1d'ers.;
S
SUNDAY
EL
HIGH
SOLONS 1 ft
iisi
Legist
atnre ot the, Southern
State Is Called by Governor
Johnson to Straighten the
Tangled Election Laws
Sacramento, Jan. 6. The extra
session of the California legislature,
called by Governor Johnson to dis
entangle the state's primary add re
gistration lawa, began at 2 o'clock
this afternoon. The first business of
the session was the reading of the
governor's proclamation, after which
the two bodies organised.
Governor Johnson's message to the
legislature followed.
The reasons for the calling of the
special session of the legislature may
be summed up as follows: '
The 1915 legislature passed a non
partisan primary election law (to ap
ply to state and national officers) and
a non-partisan registration law. Party
leaders started a referendum against
the former, but not against the lat
ter. The people supported the refer
endum, and this left the primary law
of 1 91 J In force. . .
The salient feature of the 1913
law is that electors can sot vote at
a primary election unless registered
as affiliated with a political party.
With the non-partisan registration
law also In force, a' voter, as the situ
ation now stands, can not cast a ballot
at a primary election. '
Although Governor Johnson ex
pects the session to be over In four
days, many believe It will last con
siderably longer, because of the de
termination of the party men to. fight
to a finish.
C. C. Hancock has returned to his
home In Cornelius,' Oregon, after
having spent a couple of days in this
district Investigating business condi
tions and looking up land.
(B United Press Leased Wire.) . j The political and personal relation
Washington, Jan. 5. Unless it is .ship between former Secretary, of
materially' modified. ' President
son's military 'preparedness program
will he beaten, the administration it-
sou 'veneres, u was ouiuunmuvny .
learned todays . ; va . (making plana against the admlnlstra-
Senate tender Kern'rl Defection! Uon Program. '1' V,1 ' " '
from the ranks of supporters furnish-1 Leaders with whonij Bryan talked
ed final proof of this to tne White j BW that he Is viciously . bltterngalnst
House.-! He1 has talked at the pro- j the president's preparedness program
srram because he held that his 'In- and that he threatens to chimp the
dlana constituents are opposed to It.
Thin leave the program unsup-.tion next June to arouse sentiment
ported 'by the leaders of both houses. against the preparedness issue and
Majority Leader Kitchin of the against a second , term for Wilson,
house held off from the first, and an-jTnejr said, however, that Bryan does
nounced he could not give his aid to , not intend to bolt the convention it it
the program, but Kern was expected supports Wilson, hut that he hopes
to lead the administration fight in the to prevent this support. ( '
senate. i 1 ' , f . Preparedness hearings were begun
The preparedness sentiment which toA by the nouBe navaI committee
swept the country several weeks agoland Promise to last for several
has reached its crest, some leaders lmonth, Hearings on the army mea
thlnk. Moreover, President Wilson 8um 1(1,1 beRln la the house 'tary
Is receiving discouraging reports 0f
the situation. , .
The opposition t6 the nroiiram ten -
ters In Secretary Garrison "array
plan," which includes military train-
lng for a vaet WttMnV artrty. . The,
people vbok'home,,vdo not Ilka it,
many congressmen report.
."ItH sta-ftd byVn)' statement that
generally I will support the prepared -
ness program, but which of several
plans t will approve l oan not say,"
commented Kern, today.'
INDICTED
ID
Loren Donnelly and Seth
Bailey Enter Pleas of. Not
the Circuit Court Today
The grand Jury today found seven
true bills In the cases brought before
It, and two of the men who have
been held in the county jail for some
time past were arraigned before the
circuit court. Loren Donnelly was
arraigned upon the Indictment return
ed charging him with illegal sale of
liquor to Harry Hawkins on Decem
ber 20. He plead not guilty. Seth
Bailey also plead not guilty to the
indictment against him of obtaining
money by false pretenses, the specific
charge being giving a personal check
for eight dollars to Cecil Schilling
when he had no funds in the bank.
Other indictments returned are
against Alfred. Hutchinson for the
wanton killing of an animal. Com
plaint was made "by Al Zuver. of
Waldo, with Bert Eggers and John
Evitt as witnesses, acuslng Hutchin
son with killing a yearling calf be-i
longing to Zuver on December 22
last. -. '' , ;
A true bill also was found against
Albert Tucker snd George Barlow for
wanton killing of a mare, charges
preferred by W. H. Farra, O. O. Vin
ing and C. O. Lefferson, of the Wil
liams valley district .
:' Indictments were brought against
John Doe Dunlap and John Doe Por
ter, charging them with assault with
dangerous weapon upon the persons
of R. O. Smith and A. L. Smith, on
the night of December 81 last The
bill charges the defendants with hav
ing struck and jhot at the complain
ants with a rifle on New Tears eve,
when the Smiths went out to the
Hammersly mine in the Jump-Off-Joe
region. . yV:,.-
Wil-.state Bryan and Kern always has
oeeh close, 1 and ' kern's detection , is
traced to the ex-premier, 'who spent
two' days' with' Congressman Kltchln
country prior to the national conven-
,commuree tomorrow,
Secretary Garrls6h la slated to be
the first person examined by the
members. ' .-. t-;.i
The administration Is confident that
two "'battleships and a number "of
auxiliary Vessels will bo authorised,
The need fdr 'more' ' government
docks where' 'battleships and imklfer
.vessels' can he built was the general
tenor of the testimony
Admiral Stanford before
committee, ' V
of
the
Roar
naval
TIE SENATE IR
FOREIGN POLICY
Washington, Jan. 5. Chairman
Stone of the senate foreign commit
tee this afternoon brought to an end
a warm debate in the senate that
threatened to embarrass the admin
istration's foreign policy. He with
drew consent to consideration of the
foreign policy. .
Senator O'Ctorman of New York
said that the government had repeat
edly warned citizens in Mexico to re
main away from the fighting area, yet
had not considered this as a sur
render of American rights. Then he
asked why Americans should not
waive, lor the present, their right to
travel on belligerent vessels. Senator
Nelson of Minnesota queried as to
whether American Consul McNeely
was unpatriotic hecause he sailed on
the British liner Persia.
At this stage Stone headed off fur
ther discussion apparently acting in
compliance with the wishes of the
administration that the foreign situ
ation be kept out of congressional dis
cussion if It tended to be embarrsss-
lng. '7:.;"
Senator Gore Is father of bills to
bar American citizens from belli
gerent ships which 'brought on the
discussion. !
TRAMP 8TOIJ3 "JOCST
POR ELECTRIC COOKER
Marysville, Cai., Jan. 6. Tramp
life de luxe has been discovered near
here in a "jungle," where a hdbo had
a home-made electric cooker, the
"Juice" for which he got by hooking
a wire to a third rail. ;! , r
COST OF THE FORD
PtE MOVE WILL
BE HALF MILLI
Copenhagen, Jan. 5. Expenses of
the Ford peace expedition have been
$300,000, Business Manager Plan tiff
said today, and they will reach at enemies, that the British people havo
least 1500,009, exclusive of the cost. their heart ln; the,. war, and are pro
of the permanent peace tribunal to ( pared to, meet, any, call." ,,
be established after the party returns i It is estimated ' that the Asquith
to America. r v jbtll will add between , 400,000 and
Madame Schwtmmer, Hungarian 500,000 when it becomes effective,
peace advocate,' will not return to the j Sic John Simon, in explaining hit
United States, but instead will remain Resignation from the cabinet, urged
with the tribunal In an advisory capa- parliament to resist the conscription
city, drawing a salary from Ford. program. ' ' '
The expedition is preparing to go, ' : - v.
to The Hague Friday, but the German London,! Jan. B.The' battle " over
minister here admitted that it la poa-conscription, ,whlch may mean a new
Bible that the Berlin foreign office crisis - In England's domestic affairs,
might still refuse permission to the opened In parliament today. Premier
delegates to cross Germany. 1 Asquith was prepared to Introduc
Cahled New Tork reports that Ford the government's' conscription' hill
had changed his views as to the cause and it was expected he would oppose
of the war, and that he now believes the failure of the Voluntary enlist
the people, of the belligerent nationament.,plan. and anticipate the argn
favored the struggle and that It was ,ments of the conscription opponents,
not poshed "by munitions Interests, ( Lord Kitchener was expected to do
caused consternation among the dele- - likewise In the house of lords,
gates. Madame Schwlmmer declared Sir John Simon's explanation of
the reports are Untrue. this resignation from the cahinet.' It
v'.1rr n '
it
U. S. ARBITRATE"
! GERMAfl PROTEST
London, Jan. 6. America may be
come arbiter in questions raised by
naval warfare. Thla nossibllitr was
BMn today from the ofher of 81r Ed
ward Grey to submit to an "impar
tial tribunal, say of officers of the
United States navy," disputed cases,
including the Baralong incident.
In the Baralong case, Germany
protested through America tq (Eng
land that the latter had transgressed
warfare rules In the iBaralong'a sink-
lng of a German submarine and de-
structlon of her crew after the crew
had surrendered. 4
mm
FOR DRAF1
OF BR
PresierPressnts Ccnscri;tica
But tie Irish Are Exempt
Frca Its Previsions
London, Jan. 5. In introducing
the governments conscription bill in
the house of commons today. Premier
Asquith declared England does not ,
plan to draft all men of military age
at present. .
"Results of Lord Derby's enlist
ment campaign show that the case 'for
general compulsion Is not yet'
proven," Asquith declared.
Ireland, Asquith announced, is ex
cluded from the provisions of the
conscription bill. This step was taken
to avoid the opposition of Irish
leaders. : ' -. , . '
; The bill drafts all Bingle men be
tween the ages of 18 an4 41 eligible
to military service; and also widowers
of the same ages without any persona
dependent upon them.
It exempts, however, bachelors and
widowers engaged in "indispensable
and special occupations," like making
munitions or working on railways; it
also eliminates , those who are sup
porting relatives, and those with con
scientious scruples against war, such
as the Quakers. '
After rejecting the suggestions of ,
Lloyd-George and others favoring
general conscription, it Is understood
that Premier Asquith prevented re
signations from the cabinet, other
than Sir John Simon's, by means of
compromises. , i ''
' Though the,, Derby plan did not
meet expectations, Asquith told the
house of commons: - .. ';, , ,
"The figures are wonderful. Nearly
.3,900,000 men signified their wllling-
ness to serve their country. Thla
should convince. the allies and their
was anticipated, would be tho signal
tor attacks upon the government mea
sure, for he Is generally supposed to
have quit hecause of the compulsory
service, plans. ? . S . -i'
It was understood that the 'bill ex
empts Ireland, from conscription..
LOVE TRIANGLE HAS
ITS USUAL ENDING
New Tork, Jan. 8. The grim tra
gedy of a love triangle came to light
here today, when the bodies. of Chauf
feur Wm. Beirea and Mr CfithnHnii
Walsh',, J7 years old, wife of a wealthy
Atlantic City, man, were found side
by side In the dining room of their
home. ;.v v ; . ;
...MrSn .W.alsh, eloped with Beggs a
few ip.onths ago; then his love turn
ed cold, so she, shot and killed him
and thn herseif. r ' ".' ' ' '
The woman left a letter for her
husband, but no. word for her two
children. ,
18
sWttXHrav..M'
