THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
. AuviTSIDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
18 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, AUGUST 13, 1916
18 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 87
FRENCH'AND RUSSIANS GAIN IMPORTANT SUCCES
ARMIES OF CENTRAL POWERS III
NORTHERN FRANCEAND G ALICIA
DEFEATED BI
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
French and Russian forces have gained additional important successes
over the armies of the central powers in northern France and Galicia, re
spectively. A sustained attack over a front of three and three-quarters miles by the
French against the third German line north of the Somme resulted in the
capture of all the trenches to a depth of from a third to two-thirds of a
mile. The line of the victorious French advance, extends from Hardecourt
to the Somme river at Buscourt.
The village of Maurepas, which has been the center of much severe
fihting during the last few weeks, was partly occupied by the French in
the same assault. German prisoners to the number of 1,000 and thirty
machine guns were captured.
On the eastern front, the Austro-Germans have been forced to give up
the entire Stripa lirie from Tarnopol to Bticzacz, which they had held since
last winter. The capture of the Stripa line by the Russians followed the tak
ing of several towns in the region of Tarnopol
The Russian success comes closely on their turning of the flanks of
the Stripa position in the north by the capture of Brody, and in the south by
the taking of Stanislau.
The advance of General Letchitzky continues south of Stanislau.
The Duke of Acosta continues to advance south of Gorizia in the direc
tion of Triest and his troops have occupied Oppacchiasella, six miles south
west of Gorizia. The Austrians are putting up a strong defense against
the attempted Italian advance east of Galicia.
Kaiser Wilhelm
Visits Front In
Early Morning
'Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WITH THK GERMAN ARMY IN
FRANCE. (Undated) (Via Berlin.
August 12, to London) East of the
omme. with the French Runs roaring
a morning salute and the German can
non thundering their reply, the German
emperor today unexpectedly appeared
in a little village Just behind the front
arid reviewed a hastily Improvised pa
rade and decorated a number of of
ficers and soldiers. He addressed the !
men briefly and was then whisked on
to the most advanced position. j
The emperor's visit was known to
only a few officers the previous even
ing and came as a surprise to the
troops who were obviously overjoyed
that the emperor could find time to
come to them. The visit in addition
surprised a small group iof correspon
dents who had just returned from an
inspection of the advanced positions
and who had an opportunity to see the
emperor at Novogeorgievsk, a few
miles northwest of Warsaw, almost
precisely a year ago.
Notwithstanding the heavy fog that
generally prevails in the early morning
in this section, the emperor's visit had
something brilliant and dramatic in it.
I pon a broad level plain flanked by
a picturesque French chateau, all the
troops in the immediate neighborhood
bad collected. The uniforms were of
field gray, but the attire of officers
and men was nevertheless, so far as
possible, gala, and the more striking
as a majority of the soldiers wore their
new steel helmets. J he omcers had
discarded their monotonous fatigue
caps and had donned peace-time head
gear, so that the picturesque gray fur
headpieces of the Death's Head Hus-
ars contrasted with the helmets of the
Cuirassiers and the mortar-board caps
worn by the Uhlans.
The emperor arrived at 9:30 o'clock,
his suite Including I'ritice F.itel, one
(Continued on Pag Two)
French Orderly Declares His
Ship Has Sunk Deutschland
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PF.VSAt OLA. Fla., Aug. 12. An
orderly of Cnptain Leskivit, com
mand, ng the French armored cruiser
Admiial Ail be, declared here today
thai last Tuesday, August 8, the
cruiser received a wireless mes:ige
from a British patrol boat in the At
lantic saying she had sunk the Ger
man submarine Deutschland that
morning.
Captain Leskivit of the Admiral
Aul.e denied that the cruiser had re
ceived a wireless message from a
I'ritieH patrol boat In the Atlantic
saving she had sunk tho German
men hantman submarine Deutschland.
Tho rnotain asserted he hnd received
ni information whatever about the
Deutschland.
According to the orderly, the radio
disiMi'rh told how the submarine was
sighted while running on the surface
fit night and was sent to the bottom
Just as she attempted to submerge at
(iavbrenk.
The Admiral Aube, an imposing
looking four funnelfd craft, steamed
Into Pensacola hirbnr todsv aTirt
dropped anchor. She !s the first Mi
lled warship to enter nn American
port frince the wnr began and the
event caused n flurry of excitement
n.l curiosity nlnne the wnte" front.
To the collector's suggestion thnt
re mieht take nn rnn und supnlles
sufficient to mnke Ms nearest home
rn-t. the captain 'erUrd that b'i
store was nmnle and that he won'.",
r-n eet-lv tomorrow.
"The Flench consul Jlns some vopt
Incw'tnt nnner wMch I desire.1 "
-id rVotnin-T ,fit'e. "I pmo nn f
Martinique find Inftttt'ioh r T .
l en emlsln' 'lr trt fn1' fn- H-
ri .'f,-s sr-' (""(-,i i mme Into
TVnspeoIrf " it thpi,"
Tl ehipnln"" Trei betlev th
vr.sliip Is on nntrnl d:it nf tv
r . . ? ...... ... nrtA h4i lin"" o""mt"'
f rmnn f nhmnr1 C"bl f"' 1 of
ri ft nor'" For -e r-it m
the crews of German and Austrian
ENTENTE ALLIES
Take Nearly
Mile of Third
Line Trenches
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS, August 12. North of the
Somme the French attacked the third
German line from Hardecourt to the
river at liusrniirt a distance of IH4 I
kilometers (three and three quarter!
miles), taking all the trenches to a
depth of 1,000 metres (nearly two
thirds of a mile), according to the of
ficial statement issued by the war of
fice tonight.
The French have penetrated the vil-
loge of Maurepas and have taken a
thousand prisoners and thirty machine
Buns.
The great damage inflicted by the
recent Italian aerial raid near Triest
is related in a semi-official note from
Rome, as forwarded by the Havas
agency. It says twenty machines
dropped four tons of explosives blow
ing up a great petroleum reservoir on
the Gulf of Triest and destroying all
nearby buildings. Three buildings of
a torpedo factory, containing a large
wrecked.
Report "Is Untrue"
LONDON, Aug. 12. The British
press bureau says the German wireless
report regarding the damage done dur
ing recent Zeps?lin raids on England,
is "wholly untrue."
Official castiality lists continue to
show the severity of the fighting on
the western front The losses for one
week, July 16 to 23, were .28 killed,
I.Too wounded and 201 missing, a total
of 1
99. The proportion of killed to
wounded, 1 to z, is rather higher than
In the preceding fortnight. Since the
beginning of the war, the British army
has lost lO.lOf. officers killed. 21.2'J0
wounded and 2,412 missing.
According to a Reuter dispatch from
Vienna, the German chancellor Dr. von
Bethmann-Hollwr-g. the Jrman for
eign minister, Herr von Jagow, have
returned to Genua ny. The conference
(Continued on Page Twin
merchant ships laid up here have been
telling German sympathizers that f.ie
Ur.-men. the Deutschland' ls!er
ship, had selected Pensacola as her
port of entry and that allied war
ships were on tho outlook for her.
French Consul Howe sient a few
minutes aboard the cruiser soon after
she arrived and returned to tbe cIV.
Half an hour later he returned pre
sumably to deliver the documents to
the French officer. The consul said
he did not know their contents.
Lieutenant llarnes of the I'nited
States destroyer Costa went aboard
the Admiral Aubre late in the nfter
noon and was joined there by officers
from the TInited States aviation sta
tion at Fort Harrancas. There was a
conference lasting half an hour.
It was learned that the cruiser left
Martinique two weeks ago and has
about forty German prisoners aboard,
some of whom were captured several
months ago.
Know Nothing of It
HALIFAX. Aug. 12. Admiralty of
Twenty Five Are
Crowded Trolley Cars Crash
Republican A, P. Leased Wlrel
JOHNSTOWN, Pa., August 12.
Twenty-five persons were killed and
r,Z Injured in a head-on collision be
tween two. crowded trolley cars on the
line of the Southern Cambria Traction
company between Echo and Brookvale,
seven miles from here, today. Four
teen persons were instantly killed
while the others died after being re
moved from the wreckage. Several
more are rn a 'critical, condition and
will probably die.
The cause of the accident has not
been determined. Coroner Fitzgerald
at once started nn investigation.
Because of lack of doctors, many of
the Injured were compelled to wait
Says Wilson Fails to Maintain American Rights Abroad
WILSON WILL CONFER WITH
n-
AUTOPSY CONFIRMS
MURPHY'S DIAGNOSIS
CHICAGO, August 12. The last
contribution to science of lr. John
Murphy, the eminent surgeon who
died yesterday at Mackinac Island,
the gift f his body, was made to
day. In obedience t6 Iir. Murphy's
last wish that scientists Investi
gate the cause of the death which
he knew was cuming, an autopsy
van performed here as soon as" the
remains were brought from the
northern summer resort. It es
tablished that death whs due to
heart disease aggravated by throat
trouble. This confirmed the diag
nosis that Dr. Murphy had made
on his own condition. The funeral
will be held Monday morning.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 12. Revision i
"I the Income, inheritance, stamp anu
theater sections of the house revenue
out us recoiiiriieuueu tty me uiujoiiiy ui
the finance committee was approved
tonight by the democratic senate cau
cus after many hours of debate.
The proposed normal tax on incomes
is left at two per cent where the house
had fixed It, the exemption to be $4uo
for persons with families and $3itot for
single persons as In the present law.
The rate of the taxation under existing
law is one per cent.
In addition to the normal tax. addi
tional taxes on large :nco.-nes will be
levied as follows:
i One per cent up to the amount by
which the total net income exceeds
$20,000 and does not exceed $40,000;
two per cent on 140,000 to imjiioO;
three per cent on $i9,000 to $so,ooo;
four per cent on $o,0r0 to tiod.imo;
five per cent on $100,000 to $1 '.0,000;
six per cent on ll'.o.ooo to $2no,ooO;
seven per cent on 1200.000 to $.f0.000;
eight per cent on $250,000 to $:sou.uo0:
nine per cent on $300,000 to $."00,0u0:
ten per cent to $500,00(1 to $2,000,000;
and 13 per cent on the amount by
Which the tnt.il net income erceeds
$2,000,000.
Upon the transfer of inheritances the I
following taxes would be. levied. I
One ner cent r.f 1 he urnniint if
estates valued at not to exceed i:.o uflO:
two per cent on estates exceeding $j0,-
ooo and not exceeding $l.'.(i,oon; three;
per cent on $150,000 to $2."i0,000; four
l-r cent on JLT.ii.ooO to I4f.0,0ou; five
per cent on $4.r.0,0o0 to $1.00o.o00; 6;
per cent on $1,000,000 to $2,000,000;
seven per cent on $2,000,000 to $3,-
UOO.OOO; elutit per cent on $3,000,000 .
to $4,000,000; nine per cent on $4,-
ouo,ouo v.) a.uuu.uuo, and ien per cent
(Continued on Page Three)
ficials at this port, which is the head
quarters for British naval opeatiors
in the western Atlantic, tonight Said
they knew nothing of the sinking "of
the German submarine merchantman
Deutschland, reported at I'ensacolu
today.
Captain Leskivit said his ship would
leave tomorrow at 0;30 "We need no
repairs," he said, "everyone Is In good
health, and we have plenty of coal.
Our stay here has been pleasant. The
men have enjoyed the brief shore leave
which they badly needed."
Captain Le.tkivlt laughed heartily
when told of the report that his cruiser
had received a wireless report that the
Deutschland had been sunk and said:
"Of course we allies would be
pleased at such a report If true, but
I must insist that it Is false. Our
vessel received no such report. By
our coming In here, we show the world
that We travel where we please: that
the allied warships can float on waters
of the universe, but the German boats
must go under tho waters."
Killed When
nearly two hours for medical treat
ment. -
According to persons In the vicinity
at the time of the wrw-K one car was
standing still near the car barn at
Kcho. when tho zither enr in eharire of
Motorman Angus Varner crashed down
a steen hill ir.n it Ki.ih cars were'
SENATE CAUCUS
FINISHES WITH
TflV flM IMPIUMCC
HAU I 1UU I LU
demolished. Shortly before the accl-! Rodgers informed the de facto aulhori
dent Varner's car was seen to rush ties of the circumstances of the arreHt
past the station at Brookvale with and asked for an Investigation.
Varner frantically waving his arms. I "The department trusts that the ac
Believlng the car, which, according to tion does not have their approval," the
employes of the company, was going , message to the Rev. Van Goethem con
at the rate of thirty miles an hour, was ' tinued. "and that they will take steps
not under control, the current was shut to enable you to perform your priestly
off at the power plant but this action functions among your parishioners
was taken too late to avoid the crash, over the line in Mexico."
ROPES HE CAN
AVOID IT. BUT
READTTOAGT
Republican A. ff Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 12. Personal
conferences will be sought by Presl
dent Wilson with representatives of
the railroad and their employes if all
other efforts fail, to avoid the threat-jam!
eued strike of the four grsut railroad
union brotherhoods. He it seriously
considering making a trip to New York
for the purpose.
The president talked over the long
distance telephone today with mem
bers of the tederul board of mediation
and conciliation in New York und told
them If they were unable to bring
about an agreement, and a break seem
ed imminent, he was to be notified im
mediately, fie hones it will not tie
j necessary, but as a last resort, desires
hiersonally to urge noon the parties to
controversy the disastrous eflcct upon
themselves and upon the country.
winch wouhl follow tying up ot two
hundred and twenty-five railroads by
a strike.
Although the president was told
early today that the situation was
critical, word came tonight I hut pros
pects for an agreement were more
favorable and that further vunferences
would bo held In New York tomorrow.
Mr. Wilson remained in his office
at the White House throughout the
day in order to keen in close touch
with the situation. While evidently
worried over the situation, he mis not
given up hope that a setlement may
be reached. He has taken no stand on
the merits of the arguments presented
bv either side, but is understood to be
confident that common ground can be
found on which the employers and em
ployes can meet.
During the day the president re-
1 reived a tietition from representatives
of unorganized railroad employes org
lug that congress pass legislation
which would prevent the railroad be
ing paralyzed by a strike of the niem
lers of the brotherhoods, who. it Is
claimed, represent only twenty per
cent of the employes. Tho fiisl peti
tion contained 6.00(1 names and it was
come within a few days.
.
Mav "l!v Arbitration
NEW 1 ( IRK. Aug
Notwith-
.standing the failure of mediation
to
bring together the representatives of
the railroads of the country and their
400,000 employes on the demand of an
eight hour day and time and a half
for overtime, the threatened strike that
would tie tin 225 railroad systems and
throw l.MHi.000 railroad workers out of
employment, rhay le averted by arbi
tration. An agreement to this effect
may be pntered into tomorrow, It was
predicted here tonight.
At the end of a day of confusing
situations' and contradictory reports.
the leaders of the four railroad broth
erhoods and the members of the
I'nited States board of mediation and
c nciliation. which is striking to effect
a peaceful settlement at the ppeclal
request of President ilson, viewed
the situation optimistically.
It has been virtually conceded that
arbitration under the present provis
ions of the Newland act would not
he satisfactory to the men. but an ex
pansion of the.oard provided for may
he accepted by them, with the provis
ion that only their present demands
are to be arbitrated. The railroads
have maintained that In the event of
arbitration, not only the demands of
their employes, but the roads' "con
tingent proposition" was based on the
eight hour day, but eliminates the
doubt that compensation features
should be arbitrated.
Several times during the day's ne
gotiations between the mediators and
the trainmen, it seemed as if the men
were on the point of withdrawing from
further parley. When the situation
reached a point where it was reported
President Wilson hnd intervened. A. R
Garretson. president of the Order of
Railway Conductors, authorized a
statement which clearly Indicated the
(Continued on Page Three)
o
Lansing Informs
Priest His Case
to be Taken Up
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NOCALKS, Ariz., Aug. 12. The Rev.
G. C. Goefhem, the priest who was ar
rested . by the Mexican authorities
when he crossed the line last Sunday,
to administer religious consolation to
a member of his church dangerously
ill, was Informed today by Secretary
Lansing that his case would be taken
up with the de facto government by
Special Agent ltodgcrs, at Mexico City,
secretary Lansing saia mat Mr,
SALE OF DANISH WEST
INDIES IS HELD UP
Republican A. P. Leased Wlr'.
COPF.NHAGKN, Aug. 13. The final
decision on the sale of the Danish
West indies to the Cnited States may
be postponed nearly a month if the
proposal of radical and socialist mem
bers of the Folkelhing for a plebis
i Up is adopted on Monday. Tim
Folketbing, or lower house, recessed
today after discussing the confirma
tion of the sale until Monday
The proposal of the radicals and
socialists calls for the approval of
the cession treatv tietween Denmark
the Criited States by parliament
ALL NATIONAL
T
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug.. 12 All the
national guard units included in Presi
dent Wilson's call of June IS. not yet
on the Mexican border, were ordered
there today bv the war department.
between 20.000 and 25,000 additional
troops will thus I added to the bor
der forces. National guards forces
thrre will numlier approximately 12",
nun and the total of all troops on the
border or in Mexico will lie I is, 000.
Sccretaty P-aker made a formal an
nouncenieiit that the troop movement
had nothing whatever to do with the
.Mexh:an situation as such, and was
solely to relieve the thousands of
troops now held in mobilization camps
onlv l.ecfiise thev lack a few recruits
to bring units up to fixed minimum
strength
Today's order sends troops from
Kentucky. Ohio and Vermont to the
border as soon as transiiortntion can
be arranged for them and will move
all ti e others ns soon as they are
properly equipped.
The war department officials de
cided on their action because the
troops are restive in camp and there
seems to be no stimulus to recruiting
while there was no prospect of move
ment to the border. They now ex
pect that most cf the regiments will
lie filled before the troops leave.
The Kentucky. Ohio and Vermont
troops whi h will move practically at
once will tub', the following units to
the long border line:
Kentucky, one brigade of three regi
ments of infantry, one company signal
corps, one 'ield hospital and one am
bulance . company, mobilized at Fort
Thomas.
Ohio, two brigados. of three rcKi
media each of infantry, one squadron
of cavalry, one battalion field artil
lery, one battalion engineers, one
battalion nignal corps, three field
hospitals, two ambulance companies.
all mobilized at .olumbus.
Vermont, one regiment infantry and
one squadron cavalry at Collster.
Secretary Baker also made imblie a
letter to a cnrressjndent whose name
(Continued from Page TTiree)
DAUGHTER - IN -
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Aug. 12 Mrs. Frank
Copeland Page, daughter-in-law of
Walter Hines Page, , Cnited States
ambassador to Great Britain died of
infantile paralysis here late today at
her summer home in South Garden
City. She was 25 years old and had
been ill- only since yesterday.
Mrs. I'age, who was Katherine Sef
ton, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Fred-,
erick Sefton ot Auburn, N. Y., was
married to. the son of the ambassador
June 3 last. She was a graduate of
Smith college nnd first met Mr. Page
it i dinner given nt Auburn in his
honor by Charles D. Osborne, one- of
his classmates at Harvard.
Ambassador Page, who returned
with his wife to this country yestef
day, engaged rooms at a hotel In
Garden Cltv as soon as the condition
of his daughter-in-law became seri
ous. Both he and iMrs. Page were nt
the young woman's bedside when she
died. The younger Mrs. Page recent
ly returned with her husband from
their wedding trip. Physicians who
ettended her expressed the belief that
she contracted inf.intlle paralysis be
fore returning here nlthoneh the dis-
i esse
did not manifest Itself until
yesterday.
Seven persopo In New Ycrk City,
11 mi re than IS years o'd who hove
been cored of the dlsenoe volunteered
'nd3w to ove some of their blood for
the ht pf! of the new serum .with
"'hih eenlth nf'lcers re exne'riment
(nir. Plvt.. chtldren plrrndv bnva been
treated with tb" senirn. nnd It Is snld
mo'p t'lin half of them show Improvement.
NT
OR
DREAD INFANT L DISEASE S
STRIKERS
Tho approval by parliament, how
ever, will become effective only if it
is ratified by a majority Vote of the
plebiscite which is to be held within
thlee weeks and under the prrmchise
provisions of the new constitution,
according to the proposal.
The advocates of the sale believe
the course proposed should meet the
objections of the leading opponents
who have been laying much street on
their opinion that the present parlia
ment is not competent to decide the
matter alone and that the people
should have a chance to express their
wishes.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
F.L PASO, Texas., Aug., 12. An
undercurrent of unrest is manifesting
itself in various cities in Chihuahua,
according to reports here tonight.
These reports emanating from several
apparently reliable sources, indicated
that there has been no concerted
movement anywhere in the state to
overthrow the de facto government,
but that numbers of agitators ap
parently under no central organization
have been attempting to foment a
revolution.
The revolutionary plots, which ap
parently have been developed within
the last few weeks ha.ve centerd in
Chihuahua Citv and Juarez, although
according to private dispatches per
sons charged with leing connected
with revolutionary cabals have been
taken into custody in Parral. Jiminez,
and other of the smaller cities.
In the state capital upwards of one
hundred men of prominence, all of
whom have been connected with the
Villa, the Madero, the Orozco and
others of the various political factions
have been arrested on a charge of at
tempting to seize the city and . are
now awaiting trial for treason. In
Juarez t .day orders were issued that
all persons m the Mexican ' town
across the border, other than the
military, the customs and municipal
authorities must surrender their arms
Ixfore eight o'clock tonight, because
of the presence of persons attempting
to incite revolt. Hundreds of wea
pons were collected.
It was generally believed tonight
that the l,:io0 troops recently brought
to Juarez and the recent arrival there
of Geneml Gabriel Gavira, inspector
general of the Carranza army and
General Jose Gutierrez, military di
rector of the Mexican national rail
way, was a result of the various re
bellious plots and counter plots re
cently unearthed. The plot of Colonel
Mariano Tames, who recently let?
the .Mexican town, with between one
hundred and one hundred and fifty
men with the announced intention of
joining Villa, has generally been ac-
(Continued on Page Three)
LAW OF IIP LIST
Health department officials an
nounced tonight that this has been
the record week for the disease since
the epidemic developed. Cases re
poited were t.lllS as against 1.117 last
week and 912 the previous week. In
the list of new cases and deaths made
public today, a total of 6.140 cases
were shown, with 1.371 deaths.
John D. Offers Aid
TARRYTOWN, Aug. 12. John T.
Rockefeller today offered a house on
the outskirts of his Pocantico Hills
estate as nn isolation hospital for in- J
fantile paralysis cases. An eight year
old child in the village, known to Mr.
Rockefeller, probably will be one of
the hospital's first inmates.
UNREST GROWS
OVER OE FACTO
ADMINISTRATION
Tucson Constable Wounded
But Kills His Assailants
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TUCSON. August- 12 After his
horse had been shot from under him
by two Mexicans, suspected of having
perpetrated a burglary, nnd he hint
self had been shot through the hip.
Constable John Bright, of Courtland,
Cochise county, drawing his gun as
he lay prone on the ground beside the
body of his horse, killed the two Mexi
cans this morning about 10 o'clock two
miles from Courtland. Bright will re1
cover. The bodies of the two Mexi
cans were brought to Courtland.
After emptying his revolver at the
HUGHES RENEWS
HIS ATTACK ON
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BUTTE, Mont, Aug. 12. Charles E.
Hughes, addressing an audience in the
ball park here late today, renewed his
declaration of convictions and con
tinued his attack on the administration
for its foreign and Mexican policy. Its
appointments and its tariff views.
"The democratic party." the nominee
said, "has always been a Dartv of op
position to progress. There has not
been a great national movement in
response to a national demand that has
not had to run over the prostrate form
of the democratic party."
The nominee scored the administra
tion for what he called failure to carry
out its party platform, notatoly the
plank in the 1S12 platform, declaring
for the maintenance of American
rights abroad.
"This administration, in the first in
stance, organized its state department."
Mr. Hughes said, "so as to reduce its
potency twenty-five per cent in the
eyes of the world."
The nominee reiterated his declara
tion that he was against the "pork
barrel" methods of graft, and charac
terized the last rivers and harbors bill
as "a spectacle of shocking waste."
"And it will continue," he said, 'un
til some American executive is willing
to take his political life in his hands
and come before the American people
and say: "Here I stand for business
like methods of , government, coma
what will until that time comes, we
will still have to get along in a hap
hazard way. For the nineteenth cen
tury that may might have done, but
it wont do for the twentieth.
Mr. Hughes left here at 7:25 p. m.
for Spokane, where he will spend to
morrow resting. Reviewing the first
week of his campaign, the nominee,
issued a statement, saying that he was
much gratified by the reception given
him, and expected strong supKirt in
the northwest. The hoarseness which
bothered him a day or two had left
him and he said he felt better at pres
ent than at any time before his nom
ination. Before leaving Butte, Mr. Hughes
went 3,000 feet under ground to the
second level of one of the big copper
mines here, where he spent an hourj: in
specting the workings of the mine.
Continues Attacks
HELENA. Aug. 12. Charles E.
Hughes, continuing his attacks on the
administration for its appointments,
today charged Secretary MeAdoo.
upon reliable information, with hav
ing replaced Henry N. Clapp, for
merly confidential secretary to Jlui
G. Carlisle, with Daniel E. Finn, son
cf "Battery Dan" Finn, a Tammany
leader, as assistant appraiser of mer
chandise at New York.
"The circumstances. I am reliably
informed," Hughes said, "were these:
("lapp was assistant appraiser of mer
chandise at the port of New York. n.
position requiring expert knowledge
in order to secure efficiency. Hi
resignation TK'as demanded by the sec
retary of the treasury department,
and in his place was appointed Dan
iel E. Finn, who is a Tammany dis
trict leader and son of 'Battery Dan'
Finn, of much political notoriety.
"Clapp had served twenty consecu
tive years in the treasury depart
ment. He rose by meru from a clerk
ship, which was obtained through
competitive examination, to the po
sition of assistant appraiser of mer
chandise in New York. He had been
special agent of the treasury, confi
dential secretary of John G. Carlisle
while secretary of the treasury and
held other important positions in the
service through promotion by merit.
"He wes the expert in the apprais
er's department at the port of New
York nnd had been the rieht hand
man of five different appraisers and
the acting appraiser in their absence
Some months after he was nut out of
the service, through fear of criticism
on the part of the department, he wis
made an examiner in the customs
service, a much lower position than
that held before, and at a much lower
compensation." '
Hughes assailed the administration
as i sectional administration and read
a list of the house and senate com
mittees which had southern men as
chairmen.
"I have no criticism to make." he
said, "of Hip honor, the respectability
or the agreeable character of any of
these men, but I say that an admin
istration tinder which so many of the
chairmen of the house of representa
tives are represented in that manner
is a sectional administration. It is
( Continued on Page Two)
Mexicans, who had ambushed him.
Bright not knowing that he had killed
his assailants, crawled a distance of
two miles on his hands, drawing his
wounded leg by sheer force of will, and
reported to a ranch that he had been
ambushed by the suspected burglars.
Buspected burglars.
A posse of cowboys was quickly
formed and went in pursuit of the
Mexicans, but they found that John
Bright's aim had been better than he
thought, for the bodies of the two men
were found near the scene of the ambush.
ADMINISTRATION
