f,-j-,yfMr ;.i. WfMHj' M'ay wwmwiy , jimwiyr
'"f '-" j," y
sr-writ --swr. -
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOli. 1T.-NO. 168
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, MARCH 128, 1)1G.
Cortdiaiii, 1010, bt tiii Public Lxdoek Couriiti,
PRiaiD ONE CENT
jjiimpu iiymwH' m
m
MEXICO HOLDS
iUES.ONUSE
8
OF RAILROADS
irnin Hunt Handicapped in
fc-Carranza Refusal to
Open Lines
RAID ON RANCH DENIED
l?JfTtm Renorted Fleeintr to
MSouthwest, with Amer
icans on rraii
General Cnrrnnzn, head (
Rftxlcan do fncto Government, 1
of the
Ciftxlcan do fncto uovcrnmeni, nas rc-
Jr . . -II.... !, TTtiUorl Stnfra fr
2 the Mexican railway lines for
liUtnortfltion of supplies to the Per
iling expedition, now far within the
Wdr searching ior rancno vum
Vnd his outlaws.
S'tfse of the telegraph lines also was
LfntMl. according to El Paso reports.
f
fit is probable the refusal is only tem
porary, pending agreement on terms
jf the protocol under consideration at
Washington.
Washington is wiuiuui, mi iu-
fceming tne m rasa iupuiia i v-
jjruwa's action.
5. i. fc nVincn trnctlii-ns. the sunnlv
.
f AH irn. v.... r. f -
transportation problem grows more
Wlous. and the Government probably
'will be forced to double it3 details of
motortrucks, plying between the bor-
i'i J AiMn.iiinn linens nf" l!ninS
oer aim nura "i u.... -
Grandcs and El Valle.
Villa and his bands arc fleeing far-
tier to the southwest from El Oso,
$here General Bcrtani, Carranza
commander, yesterday reported them.
His course is toward the Sierra
Madres.
iSAh attack on the ranch of the cx-
Jfayor of El Paso, at Fabcns, was re
ported by the owner, but denied by
jha-EjiPaso Sheriff. Villistas are re
ported to have captured the town of
iesca, near Torrcon.
U. S. FORCES HANDICAPPED
J WITHOUT USE OF RAILWAY
Et. PASO, Texas, March 58. General
Carrania, lias refuse d to grant, tho re
!qiW of tho" XJiiTtcl States 'Government
reiw 'American iroops Bern nnu .ubiwi
InijOrtjuji of Francisco Villa be permitted
'- rftii fhft Afovlon Vrtrf lluMtpm Tliillu'nv
Sibf thi trrinsportatlon of supplies,
I .'Tee First Chief hns also notified Gen
Sm1 'Oavlra, mllary commander at
'Nvittz, that ho must not permit tho pu3-
!U(r' nV'Af M lltift nf nnv nViltinipnt nf
foci ammunition, or cciulnment for tho
'American trodps. Carranza has further
barred the United States authorities ana
general Pershing from uslnc the Mcxl
u telegraph lines to nnd from Juarez.
bis development shows that the Amer
ican Iroons must denend unon their own
'llnej of, communication for food and am
munition. Ah they proceed farther Into
Mexico In pursuit of Villa. It Is becoming
Increasingly illtllcult for them to get these
implies.
t. It Is believed hero that the de facto
(oitrnment's refusal for use of the lines
ffa temporary, pending tha final adjust
ment Ulirl niniam,nt lofiAi, fni-t-Jl flS-H
jftni the American Government on tho
Jtrms of tho protocol rev under con-
Negotiations on the agreement probably
win take a week or more. Meanwhile the
Mblem of transportation of supplies for
tt expeditionary force Is growing serious,
" we long and tedious Mexican routes
Continued on I'aie Four, Column Two
DYING TRAIN ROBBER !
MAKES A CONFESSION;
His Statement Expected
to
Lead to the Arrest of
Notorious Band
OIUND RAPlDS. 3IIch March !8.
Rwlixlng that he has only a few'rnonths
IjlUva before a chronla ailment will end
S career, Dick Harrison, alias John
Uyins, arrested hero; on a charge of be-
an accomplice to the gang which
rohbtd a train some time airo at Staunton.
J, of 1150,000, has made a full confes-
s-- uummeij no was me urtwaa ui
J .organization and la said to have
ghren Information which will lead to tha
ftff9t of the greatest gang, of train rob-
"f since the days ot Jesse James.
Harrison, In his confession, admits his
gjf distributed the money, hut clears her
,U blame, asserting she did It because
ttr love for him.
!;the weather
I?hA weather conditions at this nol'nt In
ICf ?" may bo aptly summarized In this
rtatIon; namely, that one goes to bed
3er four bUnljets and gradually kicks
off until at dawn he Is junder only
Ig blanket and Is not sura that Is not
K Jnuch. Spring la here. Indeed, mild
fi balmy as ever, but aha goes about
PBA a knife In her hair a knife of chill
HH unfonseen sharp winds. So that, one
-" unoars just what Is going tohappen.
father fnrilnutfl tdr tniw.ii.,1 thtk wittiln
Hfo? ilUltflnnA "Doln nn,l Dnmdllhnl
KW today , tomorrow probably fair and
Iff? i warraer" If you can beat that
Igwscientlfle 'hedging-' you ate clever.
lv ii us an for the best; the Joy oi
f mi jn us uncertainties.
FORRnASV
WJt Or Phihittthif s.4,,7 4,?j-i",j
Kf .:"IT vT,',""i "t" "'V""?,T
BbS" .vittjdi, n concsaay generally
SB&fly and unsettled; not much
gtf m temperature; moderate U
detstfe ace page 4.
WWNWM,WlilUIm iiiW,W1IW1IWIWWW1T
THE REV. IIAZEN B. BAIRD
"MISSING" PREACHER
IN NEW YORK; WRITES
LETTER TO HIS WIFE
Rev. H. B. Baird, of Swarth-
more, for Whom Police
Searched, Says He Will
Return Tomorrow
LECTURED LAST NIGHT
A letter from New York this nfternoon
suddenly cleared up tho mystery In the
disappearance of the Rev. Hnzen Botsford
Baird, of 1G Obcrlln avenue, Swarthmorc,
ending tho pollco senrch for traces of him
and setting nt rest tho anxiety of his fam
ily and friends.
Ignorant of tho nlarm which his dis
appearance caused here, the clergyman
wroto his wife a letter, received today,
saying that he would return home tomor
row. He was filling lecture engagements
whllo theories of foul play or a. fatal nc
cldcnt wero being tested by searches for
him along n lonely rond between Media
and Swarthmoro and in tho neighborhood
of tho GDth Street Terminal. It Is be
lieved that a message sent to his wlfo
before the clergyman was last seen here
Saturday night never reached its des
tination. CHANGKD HIS TM.ANS.
The rtev. Mr. Baird evidently changed
his mind nfter leaving friends Saturday
night, and Instead of starting homeward!
uy way ol HDtir street aim .Meuia wem ip.
Bayoime, X. J., where ho lectured last
night, according to William II. nichmond,
nn associate.
In tho meantime nothing wns known of
his whcreaboutH, causing great anxiety
to his wife, who said she believed ho had
met foul play or an nccldent, as lie had
never stayed nway without notifying her.
Clergymen In the Philadelphia Annual
Confeience, of which ho has been a mem
ber IB years, were aroused over the
"mystery."
The disappearance of the minister was
not reported to the pollco until last night,
as Mrs. Baird, although uneasy because he
hud not returned home, supposed that her
husband was busy with lecture engage
ments. The Itev. Mr. Baird, who Is an unat
tached Methodist Episcopal clergyman,
wltli offices in 416 Fuller Building, 10
South ISth sti-Let, this city, left home
Fridav moinlng, going to his offices. After
piepailng n lecture he left for Gloucester,
wheio ho spoke that night. He spent the
night thcie and returned to Philadelphia
Saturday morning.
Saturday night Mr. B.ilid spoko at
St. Luke's Methodist Episcopal Church,
Broad and Jackson streets, and after the
meeting rode on a trolley car to Broad
Street Station with several members of
Continued on Tnie Two, Column Two
SPRING'S COMIN' WET;
SUMMERU BE HOT
You Doubt? Look at Caruso's
and Melba's Web Feet, Then
Take a Peek at Sky
Spring's comln early an' wet an" sum,
mer's comln' soon an' hot an' good fer
hay, by heck. Caruso and Melba said so
and no sooner ,had they done it- than the
cold rain began splashing down, like
a regular Quaker week shower,
There wasn't any doubt about farmers
up around Plank Landing, N, J believing
what Caruso and Melba said about spring;
and as far down as KlrkwoocJ the farmers
wero getting ready for an early spring.
For the only true weather forecast for
New Jersey was Issued today by Farmer
Smith, who heard it told by Albert ray
son Terhune. up at SunnybanU. Pompton
Ikes. who got it from Robert Friend, his
'wheredid Dob Friend get (tj From
the peacocks, friend Caruso and, Melba.
Yes. slrea, that's right. The peacocks
said so, by heck, and they've never gone
wrong in the two years they've prophesied
weather. They didn't exactly say so ; they
told Bob Friend without Baying a word,
Just as plain's day.
Wet. early spring; hot summer
The feet of Caruso and Melba have
erown little wels between the toes, like
a duck's or a frog's; that means rain and
nlenty of U and just look at It today!
Their inner feathers are beginning to
molt : that means hot weather- Those are
two signs given so far by Caruso and
Melba. If it were going to Bnow, the r
feathers would become brilliant. But It
isn't going to snow and the farmers know
they will get their hay in early,
Caruso and Melba. with ft record of
two straight summer victories, arent
saying anything. They know that the
weather almanac agrees with them and
Just look at the sky.
Robbers Wound Detectives and Escape
BALTIMORE, Md., March 38. L. P.
Scott a Northern Central Railway detec
tive was shot in the arm and leg in a
(lent with robbers, whenJhe latter broke
into Rugers Station, In the fashionable
i"reen Spring Valley, about 1:30 tula
morning. Ira. M- Trultt, railroad detec
tive wes hit with a blackjack and knocked,
unconscious. One ol the lobbers was shot
la the back, but escaped. ,
u. s. to question
germany direct
on Sussex issue:
Lansing Announces Query
to Berlin Concerning
I Nationality of U-Boat
CABINET FOR POLICY
Speedy Reply Expected to Re
duce Tension Through
out Country
.QUEENSTOWN, Ireland, March
28. Two Americana were on board
the British steamship Manchester Va
Sinecr when it was torpedoed by a
German submarine on Monday. The
men arc Arthur McKenzie, of Savan
nah, Ga and Thomas Fifcr, a resi
dent of Delaware. Both made affidavit
here today before the American con
sul that the steamship was sunk with
out warning.
The I'nlted Stntcs will nsk Germany
whether Teuton submarines wero io
sponslblo for the recent attacks upon
two ships with Americans nboard.
Secretary Lansing announced this
nfternoon that Inquiry would bo made, of
Germany regarding both the Sussex nnd
the Englishman.
WASHINGTON', March 28.
The United States will ask Germany
the direct question whether It was a Ger
man submarine which sahk the steamship
lOnglNhninn and attacked tho Channel
liner Sussex.
This -as decided on at todny's Cabinet
meeting Secretary Lansing explained
that, while the evidence so far obtained
was fragmentary In character. It Indi
cated that tho survivors nf the Sussex
saw the "wake" of a torpedo just before
the explosion which shattered the vessel.
Because of this fact, tho Cabinet de
cided that It would be a proper quebtlon
to propound to Berlin as to whether Ger
many accepted the responsibility. Already
the State Department nnd tho White
House have Indicated that If n subma
rine was responsible there could be no
doubt of Its nationality.
It Is expected that tho orders to malto
an official Inquiry will be sent to Am
bassador Gerard this nfternoon. He will
be told that because of tho tension
throughout this country a Hpeedy reply Is
needed.
At the samo time, ho will nsk regarding
the sinking of tho lCngllshman.
Suggestions that Germany will disavow
tho attack . on the Sussex, should It be
proved that a submarine was responsible,
and will offer reparation Hi tho form of
(-Indemnities and punishment of. tho sub
marine commander, found no responsive
reception at the Cabinet meeting. The
reports that the Statp Department already
had been assured by the German Embassy
that Germany will make reparation If to
blame were denied by Secretary of Stato
Lansing.
It Is explained that ceitaln sources In
Washington for the dissemination of "pro
German" suggestions had Intimated that
there could be no question that such ac
tion would be taken, but no single official
word, either from tho Kinbassy here or
from Ambassador Gerard at Berlin, has
so far 'reached either the White House or
tho State Department,
DISAVOWAL IX DOIBT.
Even though a disavowal shall come, of
ficials my there exists grave doubt that
the United States would be satisfied. It Is
positively known that President Wilson
believes that If it shall bo shown that the
German piomlscs, solemnly made, have
been violated, then the entire question of
how n.iich weight shall be given to prom
ises of this ilinracter slfould be consid
ered both by the Executive and the legis
lative branches of the Government.
Tho President, officials say, will wel
come an opportunity to ask Congress for
advice, and will do o as soon as all of
the mystery surrounding the alleged re-
Continued on I'aBr Four, Column Pour'
RIVERS RISE; WESTERN I
END OF STATE IN PERIL
Allegheny Above Flood Mark
at Pittsburgh Flood Alarm
in Many Other Cities
PITTSBURGH, March 28. From all
parts of western Pennsylvania come re
ports today- of rapid rises In streams and
rivers and many cities and towns are
threatened with the first floods of the
season. In Pittsburgh the Allegheny
River Is rising rapidly and United States
forecaster Pennywlt's prediction Is that
tha river will have passed the 21-foot
mark two feet above flood stage before
noon tomorrow.
Heavy rains last night and today are
melting the deep snows- on' the water
sheds and causing volumes of water to
pour Into the rivers and their tributaries.
River men are preparing for a great rush
of waters. The present stage In the Alle
gheny River Is 18 feet.
At "Warren a Blx-foot rise was recorded
with the Allegheny still going up a foot
an hour and the rain Is still railing.
At Olean, N. Y Just above, a five-foot
rise occurred. Franklin reported a rise
of seven feet during the night and Par
kersburg with a stage of IS feet, reported
a six-foot rise.
COM Jill US FLOOD DANGER
PAST; RIVER RECEDING
COLUMBUS, O., March 28. Flood dan
ger was considered past here today.
With, a weather forecast of "fair" and
the Scioto Rivera foot lower than Its mid
night stage, the Weather Bureau was
hopeful.
A slight drizzle and overcast sky1 to
gether with early reports that there had
been heavy rains north of here In tho
night, still caused anxiety, however.
Columbus' West Side the scene of
devastation three years ago was virtually
deserted last night. Thousands of fami
lies spent the" night with friends In other
parts of the city. Three hundred West
Side refugees slept on array cots at tho
City Hall, at school house? and churches.
Adjutant General Hough, and Governor
Willis were at the Statehouse until long
after midnight, ready to call National
Guardsmen tor relief work in case help
was asked.
SENATOR W. J. STONE
Chief congressional tvlviscr of
President ns to course to be fol
lowed in new crisis caused by
sinking of steamships Susses and
Englishmen.
WIFE SHOOTS HUSBAND
IN QUARREL; JEALOUSY
ALLEGED BY POLICE
"Other Woman" Given ns Cause
of Act Dispute With Neigh
bor Recalled Man
in Hospital
WAS UNDER $800 BAIL
Mrs. Charles Smith today shot her
husband. Charles Smith, a tlnroofcr, nt
his place of business, R523 Chester ave
nue, ncordlng to the police, because of
Jealousy.
Tho husband, in dying condition, wns
rushed to tho University Hospital. He was
shot once, the bullet taking effect In tho
back. Mrs. Smith vun arrested. Magis
trate Harris went to tho hospital at once
to take a statement from tho wounded
man.
The shooting was done with a shotgun,
according to the police, and followed a
qrairel between tho couple. The pollco
say It is tho outcomo of troublo Involving
the husband and wlfo and another woman,
a neighbor.
Tho last nnmed recently caused Mrs.
Smith's arrest, accusing her of breach of
peace, the police say, and when Constable
Delinan was serving a warrant on Mrs.
Smith she attacked the other woman. Aa
a result she was held In $800 ball.
IOWA PASTOR COMING HERE
Rev,
D. W. Wylie Accepts St. Paul's
Presbyterian Call
The new . Dr. .Dwlght, . W. j W:'l!e ot
lowa uuy, in., uns nouueu mo omciais
of St. Paul's Presbyterian Church. 50th
street and Bnltlmofo avenue, that ho will
accept tho cnll extended to him two weeks
ago to become pastor of that church. He
will nrrlve In Philadelphia on April 28
nnd on Sunday, April 30, will preach his
first sermon ns the head of the congre
gation. Doctor Wylle will ennm to Philadelphia
from the First Pre i Church of
Iowa City, which h ! I for many
years. Members of - congrega
tion and the various ,,,. 0f the
church aro planning to . , an elabo
rate reception soon nfu- Ins ,irrial.
The pulpit of tho chinch Mill bo .sup.
piled on Kaster Sunday by the Rev Dr.
Charles E. Erdman, of Princeton Theologi
cal Seminary,
Hears Dip; Whistle; Gives Fire Alarm
Tho loud shrill ot a factory whistle
at the plant of Henry II. Shelp & Co,
manufacturers of paper boxes, at the
northeast corner of flth street and Colum
bia avenue, today caused a man to turn
In an alarm of fire. When several en
gines and n hook and ladder company re
sponded, the uhistlo was still blowing.
Firemen who answered tho call went to
the engineer In the factory and requested
him to repair the mtchanlsm controlling
the whistle, which was out of order
BILL INTRODUCED TO
STOP BOXING IN N. Y.
Senator Jones Says Willard-
Moran Bout Was Blight on
Good Name of State
ALBANY, March 28. A bill abolishing
the Stata Athletic Commission and stop
ping prize fighting In the State was Intro
duced today by Senator Jones.
"My bill would repeal the entire law
which permits boxing or prize fighting ex
hibitions In New York State," said Sena
tor Jones. "It Is plain to me that there
is no way to prevent a recurrence of the
shameful scenes attending the Wlllard
Jlorau bout except to make t Impossible
by statute for prize fights to be held In
this State."
Senator Jones decried the presence of
women at the ringside, and characterised
the championship match as disgraceful
and a blight upon the good name of New
York State.
The bill as-Introduced reads:
"Chapter 779 of the laws of 1911. en
titled 'an act establishing a State Athletic
Commission and regulating boxing and
sparring in the State of New York" and
all acts amendatory thereof are hereby
repealed.
This act shall take effect Immediately."
ailtli SETS FIKE ToltOOM
AND TWO PERSONS PERISH
Waitress. Denies Own Story That
Masked Man Started Blaze
OLKVEIjANP, O.. March 28. J. p.
Lewis, of New York, a canvasser, and
Mrs. Anna Slmpklns ware, killed early to
day in a flre Jn tha Foster Apartments.
Bessie Rehners, a waitress, is In a hos
pital, badly burned.
"When admitted to the hospital the -waitress
said a masked man. whose attentions
she had rejected, entered jher room, bound
her to a bed, gagged her and set lire, to
the furniture In her room. .
According to Chief of Detectives Rab-f
gnaw, sna conteasea jater that she set
are tq the apartments an attempt to
commit suicide.
T-
BRITISH ATTACKS
ON ST. ELOI LINE
GROW STRONGER
Germans Believe Assaults
Are Opening of Big Of
fensive in Flanders
BATTLE FRONT GROWS
French Blow Up Teuton
Trenches in Pnrroy Forest.
Capture Occupants
BKRI.IN', March 28. ,
The fighting around St. Klol, where tne
British launched heavy nttajks against
the Herman lines. Is developing Into what
may prove to lit r stiong cnpmy often
she. the Herman War Olftce reported this
afternoon.
The British are continuing their nt
tneks, though they have made no further
Important gains It Is thought possible
hero that British troops, taking advantage
of Improved weather conditions on their
sector, may be planning a drive alining
to force the withdrawal of Oormati troops
from Veidim. The situation around Ver
dun nnd In the whole region between the
Mouse and the Moselle lemalns unchanged.
The battle nt U. Hlol hits also extended
to the Hues adjacent to the point wlre
the British launched their attack.
The text of tho report follows:
Fighting at closo quarters lias de
veloped south ot St. Klol around tho
mine craters formed by the explo
sion of t'tigllsh mines Tho action
hns extended to tho adjacent lines.
Thcie Is nothing ficsh to report on
the Mouse.
PARIS, Mnrch 28.
French troops captured an enemy work
In the J'arioy woods. In miles cast of
Xnncy, killing or capturing all the Her
man occupants, thn Wni Ofllco announced
this afternoon.
The Ficnch then withdrew after blow
ing up tho position.
Kast of tho Meuso River, in the Ver
dun sector, tho night wan calm, but thero
was activity on the part of tho artillery,
says the French official communique.
There wns no change In the general sit
uation on Uie Verdun liont.
The text of the olliclal communique fol
lows: Tho night was quiet east ot the
Mouse. Tim artillery on both sides
showed rather gicnt nctlvlty west of
the Meuso In tho reslon of Mulan
court, and also hi tho Wocvre region
In the sector at tho base of the Mouse
heights.
In I.orrnmc, in tho forest of Par
roy, we executed a surprise attack
upon ono ot tho enemy's works, the
defeildcis of xwhlch were killed or
mnde prisoners'. On retiring we blew
up the work.
No Important event occurred on tho
rest of the front.
. LONDON. March 28
Attacking on n front of 600 yards, the
British drove In the two outer lines of tho
Clerman salient at St. ICloi, south of Ypres.
Tho Infantry attack was launched after
the explosion of a faeries of mines which
shattered tho German trenches and burled
many of the defenders.
The British have mado themselves mas
ters of more tnan one-third of a mile of
strongly organized positions at a vital
point on tho German line, where It Juts
Into the Allied front.
After their occupation ot tho first
two lines of trenches, the British
opened up a heavy artillery fire on tho
German positions In tho rear. This bom
bardment Is stilt proceeding, nccordlng to
1: t night's hendquarters' report.
DR. WAITE'S 'STUDIO'
COMPANION SUMMONED
FOR QUIZ BY SWANN
District Attorney Wants to
Know Why She Retained
Lawyer and Studied
French With Dentist
ADMITS HE KILLED PECK
NKW YORK, March 2H. Mrs. Mar.
gnret Hortnu, "studio" companion of Dr.
Arthur Warren wane, self-contcsseu
poisoner of his millionaire father-in-law,
John B. Peck, of Grand Rapids, was this
afternoon summoned to the office of Dis
trict Attorney Swann for a conference.
Her attorney accompanied her.
During tho morning Swann had ordered
a piercing Investigation into her career.
Swann Intimated he would like to have
answers to the following questions:
Why did Mrs. Ilorton retain an at
torney if her relations with Doctor Waito
were blameless, as she said?
What Induced Mrs. Ilorton and Poctor
Walto to rent a luxurious studio In which
to -"study French."
The Investigation of Mrs. Horton's ca
reer Indicates a complete chango of atti
tude, toward her on the part of the Dis
trict Attorney.
It was from Mrs. Ilorton that the Dis
trict Attorney first learned that Doctor
Walte purchased cultures of.typhoid ,and
tuberculosis. ,
Swann reiterated today that ha had no
evidence to point to the fact that Mrs.
Ilorton was identified with any crime.
Meantime Dr. Watte showed continued
improvement In his quarters at the Belle
vue Hospital, and late this afternoon was
to repeat. In the presence of a sten
ographer, the confession tha he admin
istered poison to Peck with murderous In
tent. Tha confession was first made to his
brother, Frank Walte.
As evidence has piled up, Dr, Walte has
been 'styled a "monumental and scientific
poisoner" by tha District Attorney's of
fice. It Is now believed that he purchased
the disease cultures to administer to Peck
just before death, so that a cursory In
spection would reteal a disease und not
arsenic as the cause of deatli.
Bigamy has been added to the list of
Dootor Walto's alleged crimes. Announce
ment was made by Swann today that evi
dence gathered outside of New York In
dicates Walte was married to moije than
one woman.
The Investigation Into the young den
tist's career has been prosecutd la Kng
land, Scotland and South Africa, In ad
dition to Walte'9 dwelling placa In
Michigan. Swann would not say who
the other wives of Walte were or whether
they were living. Walte U now known to
have been, a confidential frlead or more
to four wealthy New York women whose
names have not yet been mentioned In
the case.
One theory advanced concerning tbe
CoutUiucJ oa fui Tuo, Column Thru
QUICK
ENTIRE FIRE DEPARTMENT CALLED TO BALTIMORE FIRE
BALTIMOHE, Md., March 28. Virtually all the fire apparatus
of the city was called out this afternoon to fight a blaze in th eplant
of the Kridel Hnrdwnre Company, nt 503 West German street, in the
heart of the wholesale district. Seven alarms wore sounded.
BRITISH STRIKERS HAMPER BIG GUN FACTORIES
LONDONj March 23, Grave strikes among the machinists are
holtllni; up tho iniinufauture of big' guua, Christopher Addison, Under
Secretary for Munitions, informed the llouue of Cuimuun& today.
SUFFRAGE AND PROHIBITION SET ASIDE IN CONGRESS
WASHINGTON, Mnrch 28. Woman Huffrnpc nnd natlon-wldc prohibition
were set aside for tho present session of Congress by tho Houso Judiciary
Cotnmlltco today. Tho committee, after a stormy executive session, voted to
postpone Indefinitely consideration of the resolution providing Constitutional
amendments for woman suffrage nnd prohibition.
BRITISH DENY TRUTH OF GERMAN REPORTS
LONDON', March 23. The Admiralty today denied two official statements
sent out by Germany. They were the announcement that the British claimed ten
German patrol bonis had been sunk In the, recent nlr raid In Schlcswlg-Hol-stoln
nnd the statement that the commorco raider Grclf had been blown up
by its own crew.
ELECT THREE P. R. R. DIRECTORS TODAY
An election for three directors of the Pennsylvania Railroad is being held
today nt tho company's offices in Broad Street Station. The successful candi
dates will take the places on tho hoard of Samuel Uca, President of tho com
pany; Charles 13. Ingcrsoll. of Philadelphia, and Henry Clay Frlck, of Pitts
burgh, whoso terms expire today. It Is probable that tho threo directors men
tioned will bo re-elected to succeed themselves.
Tho polls have boon open since 10 o'clock this morning, and yio votes will
be counted nt C o'clock tonight.
BRITISH AIRMEN SHELL TURK CAMP EAST OF SUEZ
LONDON, March 2S. Tlio advanced Turkish base at Bir-el-Hassanah, 10(1
miles east of the Suez Canal, was attacked by British airmen on March 24 and
40 bombs were dropped, says a neuter dispatch from Suez today. Tho camp
was badly damaged, nnd ono of tho aviators, descending to within 200 feet of
tho ground, put, to (light a forco of Turks with his machine guns. All tha
aeroplanes returned safely, having flown 200 miles.
QUEEN VICTORIA OF SWEDEN ILL
STOCKHOLM, March 2S. Queen Victoria of Sweden Is 111. She will leave
for Karlsruhe, Germany, In a few days for tho benefit of tho southern climate,.
WRITER ADMITSSEPARATE PEACE FOR TURKS POSSIBLE
LONDON, March 28. A Central N'ows dispatch from Anfstcrdnm says that
Georgo Bernhard, famous German publicist, writing in tho Vosslscho Zeltiing,
points out that a separate peace for Turkey Is possible.
Doctor Bernhard states that English statesmen ought to realize that oven
if Turkey did conclude a separate peace, the Central Empires would not be
placed at a marked disadvantage.
SIX U. OF P. STUDENTS IN HOSPITAL WITH MEASLES
Six students of the University ot Pennsylvania are In the isolated ward of
the University Hospital today suffering from measles. The doctors are making
a strong effort to check tho disease which In a week has assumed tho
proportions of an epidemic. The sixth case, discovered yesterday, is that of
Llsla Atwood Bratt, a freshman In the Veterinary School.
INDICTMENTS AGAINST STEEL COMPANIES QUASHED
YOUNG STOW N, O.. March 28. Judge W. S. Anderson today sustained a
motion to quash the Indictments returned ngalnst flvo steel companies recently,
charging alleged conspiracy to maintain prices nnd keep down the wages of
common laborers. Judgo Anderson quashed the indictments, on the ground
that labor was not a commodity and therefore did not fall under tho provisions
of tho Valentine anti-trust act.
BERLIN DENIES LOSS OF TWO SUBMARINES
BKRliIN, March S. Recent reports published In London and Paris that
two German submarines were sunk off tho Moroccan coast while taking on
supplies from neutral ships was denied by the official Overseas News Agency today.
ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION AGENT CENSURES BRITISH
BERLIN, March 28. Tho Vosslscho Zeltung quotes Frederick C. Walcott,'
of the Rockefeller Foundation, who lias spent three weeks in "Belgium, as
frankly condemning Kngland's refusal to allow importation of raw materials
and victuals Into Belgium.
"Walcott said ho expressly insisted that tho Germans must use not th
slightest part of the imported victuals. It was, therefore, incomprehensible, hb
said, that the Rnglish should block relief work on the ground that the Germans
would appropriate the food supplies.
GERMAN SOCIALIST PARTY CONDEMNS "AGGRESSIVES"
BKRMN. March 28. -Tho factional dispute which has led to the formation
of a new Socialist party in Germany was condemned and deplored at a meet
ing of the Ways and Meahs Committee of the old Socialist party today, Hugo
Hauso has resigned as president of the old party . to lead the tight of tha
"aggresslvos," as the new Socialists are called, Tho new party' is determined
to make its power felt in the Government,
RELIEF TO BE RUSHED TO SHACKLETQN
LONDON March 28,- A meeting of the official representatives of Lieutenant
Shackloton's expedition was held in London this afternoon. Lady Shackleton
and Mrs. Mackintosh, wife of the commander of tho Aurora, were present, Jt
was decided that stops must bo taken immediately to organize a relief expedition
to be sent to Rosa Sea to rescue the explorers left there. It was said that In
formation was being collected as to the amount of stores left at Scott's old head
quarters which would be available If it succeeded In reaching Jt.
EXILE FOR YUAN IS REBELS' ULTIMATUM
SAN FRANCISCO. March 28. An ultimatum demanding the resignation and
exile of Yuan Shi-Kal and that 12 of his advisers, be put to death, has been'!
handed to the Yuan Shi-Kal government by the Military Goverhor'of tHe revolt
lng provinces, according to cable advices to the Chinese Republic Association bif,
The ultimatum, according to the advices, contained these five demands: Thni
Yuan Shl-Kai resign at a fixed dato and leave China; that 13 'traitors' named
he tried, and if found guilty of conspiring against the republic, executedj that
Yuan Shl-Kul'3 property and the property of 13 'traitors' be confiscated to in
demnify the revolution; that Yuan Shl-Kai's. descendants .for three generattoa
forfeit their rights of citizenship; that the separate provinces he given control
army units and arsenals."
KITCHENER REPORTED ON SUSSEX
WASHINGTON, March 28, There is an unconnrroed, report here that Karl
Kitchener. British Secretary of State for War, was, a passenger on ttMs S'4mt
and that his presence aboard the Channel liner may hayewime-coimectloa'&itttilgi'-attempted
destruction of the vessel. It Is known that Earl Kitchener mrrfvilfc
Paris Sunday to attend the Entente Allies' war council Picas disp4tsh is
to a prominent personage who was among the Sussex passengers aao woost j
the London correspondents were not permitted to meatieik
NEWS
1
t
