H
THE WEATHER FO
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
tm.
Rain, strong winds and
cloudy to-morr
Highest temperature yesterd
Detailed weather, mall and inarm.
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 210.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 1916. copyrtr-nLisis., the sun renting and Publishing Auocitio,u
PRICE TWO CENTS.
TW0U.S.AER0S
IN VILLA HUNT
AREDESTROYED
K.iie of Drivers Unknown
Kindlon (.'nils for More
Aircraft.
AHVA.WK NOW 250
31 1 LKS I'ROM RORDER
G'. ()., I. Senators Demand
All Troops He Sent to
Protect Border.
QLI .MILITIA. TOO, IF
XKKDKI). SAYS CAl'CTS
War Depart inent Prepares
:'nr Carranza Refusal of
Railways' Vpp.
V esiixeiTo.'. March 27. Two of the
rn aeroplanes, with the Pershing ex
fditiou m Mexico li.ic been destroyed.
" un'e mcnt Ic this elf cot was in,il
Ht 'he War Department thin afternoon
i . Secretary Itakcr. The Secretary was
u .illo to say from the Information rc-e-
tc I from den. Pershing limv the urn
ennn wire tlcstrojtrt or whether their
, it- were injurril. Ie.irtnietit otllccrs
le iri. th y must have fallen during a
-couliug Might, hut that if their elrlvcts
d been hurt or If the machines had
l i brought down by Milpcrs Pershing
ii'il hae so rrjwjrtcil. .
t'f th. eight aeroplanes rent Into
Mexico tin reputt i-huuB that only two
jre now in wot king order, four of them
King Inlil up for engine trouble. Sco
ictiry llakor announced that at tho re
hik .t of (Sen. Funston the Department is
negotiating for tho purchase of nihil
t .lull aircraft. At present there aie
eight other machines In tho army.
i'i-e arc at the army aviation school
-'an Ditgo, but are alleged to be
un..ifc.
( (Mi.fnl Troop aliixriiti'iitii.
In luiich.isilriB the new urmpl.im s the
Df.Mrt neiit will seek to sit madtiiies
N.pptd with higher powered imgine
mi tho-e now In i-crvioc. The Aim
Ch.ti of mrrlci hah "ffcreel to fuinlli
v linveinmcut with airships and pilots
r f cost, but owing to legal obstacles
a' nut he accepted.
,pi e statement Issue-d by Scrutiny
U'.e.ilo.l all Intorin.itioii an to the
. Lrout - of the Pershing expcelltlon,
It'. I Unit tt was eteadlly Inrrcas--
distance fiom the border. Tho
w in. i t follows .
,l the information the Department
i 1 ' i Pie- bolder shows the e'Olldl
t.i be eitiict and the excitement of
t few ila s sntnevv hat allayed. We
mi ib'spati'li" Indicating arttial
' t between American soldiers and
- . of any kind in Mexico.
T i ixpidltlon l.i, of course, movlniJ
fe v.. nd i leiiRthenlliK the line of
, .I'toii. I'nr that leaxiii lieu,
"ii la- ieiiitd and the Depart
i - i'.nhaed two additional auto
'iinoim nt-, i oiiiprMui: llfty-four
' ' .'II Th" Jeffi ry ear wiu imr-
' -i i atlv of the reportH fnnil (ien.
I ' f the Komi work dono by them
ileit Miailn 111 Mexlro. which
1 i.'f Hi,, b,ui of his renuest, fieclf-
at particular car
lnl 'I'm. eroiliiiM.
"' i i l.tloii t that lien, l-'unston tells
'J i. t riilditlonal ai'i'oplaiie.s will be of
f ' .th In lecrniniilhsaiirf work and
h j i m in, -. .iL'.'S from the adv.ime
'i 'o the b.in at I'liliimbus, Of
I -tj. alle.nl5 llure Iwo have
'"' id. tithii h.iM. neiil "f
r'i ' c i' nt- Inn Iwo of tli.-iii an- In
1 ' ' i noil- -..vni., Tin. Depart-
ow iii-KtlatliiK for the pur
a'nlillonal aeiOi!aio, but
number nor turn has been
rh ..
re ' i.
f 'I' ( IIIIIH l
. i-.-I. i i niiiniiliili atiini In re
P 'i In- ii tiTinltleiit beraiine of the
i.lill.. lis in the elfitrle field
I ih..- utimiii ndilltional Int.
' I B i n to the lenuent for aero-
I''' i- 1.1. lillles '
ii i,. Hue of iiiiniininliallon now
1 to l. .iout I'.iil inllei from the
' " 'He .iililltioii.il iiiltonii.lille trueki,
lid. wiiuld euabh' lien, I'lThllltiK
1 'mil. the )i.e Into clx divisions with
' ' ''' -lup.neiit Klatlon at the teruiimis
in a i-ection. lien. Kuiihtoii Is e
f '! In mid .nlillllnii.il 1 1 . j .-. In fiom
' liotii, ) in Kiiani this line.
'till I rue oln ii tern.
' ' '"lit-ji- .-(nnlot met to-da at the
miiied (.essloii of their paity con
'""ii" mid auihorlzed Senator llallliiKer
J.' 'ie a statement of their position.
j lh piibhi Hiis disclaimed any Intcn
'" ' eiiibanahS tho I'lesldeut, but do.
' ur.l ihni Ms policy of military ilefeme
''" border as not aileiiiate. They
"tt.ltnjr of all available iejt.
tr. .p.. (j,,, . kj,,,,,., j,, , !,.
'" ' l with Miliuiieets If neiessHry.
v'nne llepiiblliiiii Senators expressed
" 1 ' ' lli.it tlie coium fnlonel was
'"' lie mid needed n stroiiKer deelara
' "t' bin tills i lement was In tho minority.
" lueclies were pitched In a mild
' il fi w Senators cared to discuss.
""; liroii.dmK,. iifierward.
; laieinint Klveii out by Senator
' '"Si wiiM as fiillnHs:
'!i . il.lieiui Senators fully leionnlze
' ' dun o ilealliiK Willi tlio piesent
"Ve.ui ii.mh irsls with tho I'resldeiit
"l Idee ,;u , ny (, 1(y
... i. of Inierfetliii; with the MxeciltlVB
""PMitment of the liovernment In
'" " ' but have been mid aie now
' "in in. us Hint th military r.xpo
m Mexlio shall bo adefpialely
' "li in and If i.eiessiny leenforced
j 'he In, i der ,,o shall bo pro.
'". Will, f,l(.K 1(t.nt lf, prvont
l''liiriibi,"il',r "' "", n" ,,'"t 0'c"m''1 1,1
"While realizing Hint their Information
not ho fully complete they hcllev
wai upon the Informullon which Ihey do
Coitflnucrf on TAfnf Pum
AMuESiNJl00PS0NLY
HALF DAY BEHIND VILLA
IVrsliiii-y Advnni'os Cur
rinizisliis Give More
Assisfnnri'.
BANDIT 'ITRXIXO KAST
Br ur.oitm: 11. n.i:MK.T..
Special Corrtnpondtnt of Til Sin.
HKAPQltAnTKIIH Of I'f.SITIVB Kxl-KPI-TIOV
t'.NITKIl STATKM ArtMT, NBAIt
t'ASAD CiiANnca, Mexico, Maiicii 26, lir
Acrtoi ut.vr. to Cobi'Mnt'H, X. M Mitrch
27. The further Koittli the Americans
penctrato the more persistent and con
ulftrnt become the cooperation ntul aa
slstanii. In purHitlt of Villa tin tho part
of the forces commanded by otllcers of
the I'arranz.i tloverntnctu. a cltctnn
Htiince very favorably comnienteil upon
by olllcers of the American fxpedltiou.
Never in the lilHtory ot the army of
tho l.'nlteil States has every br.uicli
of the scfvlcr. cavalry. Infnntrj' and
artillery, Riven better evidence of Its
mobility, Muniliui ntul preparedness
than on thlM eKpcdltion.
Since lea vim; r.ilumbtis, Mareli IS, the
army as represented by all branches
has reached a point I'oo mllix south
ward, every mile of w hlch whm travelled
overland through Mune of the roiiBlut
wiuntry lit the Republic of Mexico.
"I am proud of the record made by
tlw force. tinder my command on this
ix-ciislon." Mild (Jen. .1. .1, l'ershlnt;,
leader of the expedition, when discuss
Ins tho matter tn-nigltt.
"The men uml anlmal.i jre In splen
did condition and so far us tho men
are concerned, the further they pet
into the Interior of tho country the.
more enthusiastic they ccem to be
come, w'-lch l.i another cncournitini;
siRn. We have no sick and every day
shows the men In better phyVdoal con
dition than ou the tirecedltii; day."
Harrisons arc belni; maintained at
many points alotiK- the lino of com
munication" between the border nt Co
lumbus and the a, lvalue base and the
entire way is patrolled by aeroplanes,
which act a scouts anil teport move
ments of men for many miles on either
side of the main travelled road. Thce
aeroplanes also carry mcsrasri ami
tirst clnss mail to the army from the
wdvance baj-es of the American forces
and the main lure on tho border.
Villa was reported last nlpht nearly
a hundred mile-, .-ouiheast of this point,
which indicates that he Is tetrcatlnp.
It Is believed that the American forces
have not yet U-en III contact with hint.
There Is an Intimation that mi far from
seekltur asylum In tho (hierrern dis
trict, where he Is supposed to have
friend", VIHn has turned eastward,
plvlni; on .ndl.'atlons as tn his ulti
mate object
A new alliance b.i'e for the Ameri
can iirinv has been e.-tabll.-hed lmi
miles Is. Inw t'as.is Craiides and motor
truck companies have left for the new
base loaded witii supplies of all kinds
for the troops -tntlon.(l here. The par
l i-on now at tl"- "ft out" Is composed of
o'canl.itloiH tepriM nuns all brunches
of the military .service
CARRAXZA Mh llAFFLED
IIIh'k Ivihm. teilue uf I lie Ciiiinli.
Iile Him (irear il n n lnue.
II I'l.lM I) I. 1. 1 II HON .
I'liu.n UitAtigVAtiTLits rxirui States
PfStTIVK CxI'KMTION IS Mu.XICO, I.V
i'amp at Sa.v .Mmri:i. Itii:n, ni:u Co-
1..I.MA Dl IU.aS, HV AltMY MoToc. TO
,'oi.f.Miirs. X. M., .M.ucli 7. -It l ic
called that Villa's .iimotuiced tnotlxe in
takilli; the hve of -eventeeii Amencanf.
in hW C'olutnbiis i.iid was letaliatlon for
Hie cooperation wh .-h the I'lilteil states
tjoverntneiit temleriil to Carraiua.
Villa' particular grievance was the
Ue of the rulttMinls of the fulled States
by the Cairanza iloverninent In the
movement of Its troop through fiuted
States territory ft. no I.aii'ibi and Hi
Tiiso to Diui:la. Ariz., to the relief of
the Carianza k.iiiimiii at Agui l'rieta.
So no a.
It was tn. i ooper.it. on, namely, ibe
use of thii I'nilid States railloads, that
s-ivid tho live- of the Agua l'rieta gar
rison, which was heM( gi-d by o astl
siip"ilor ninnber of men uinl"r the per-i-nrial
coiiur.and of Villa.
1'or th.' i-lulieijition. win n pieveiitul
Villa ft tun wiping out an enemy strong
hold and Kcurliig a bonier port from
which to re. iiilt and supply Hi" aiuiv,
the bandit has now foresworn his enmity
for all Mexican factioius and declared his
intention of directing Ids murdcious en
ergies hotly nil A met leans.
A week ago at Xamhiulpa. IS.", miles
to tho south. I'ol. I'ano, coniiiiauilei- of
the ( 'ai ranzista garrl-.m at that plin e,
sent two coiiiniands when he heard that
Villa had departed from tho town of
Ul Valle and was bound for Xam(iilia
The bandit caught up with one of
those command nt the little village of
Uih L'ruccu, attacked In the night and
put It completely to J out The point W
that III these hills where Villa, the out
law, was able In evade the iiirales of
Dlnz for twenty eais and which has
been his stamping ground sh.eo child
hood, the fai latulstas aie totally un
able, even If they are dlspo-cd, to round
up tho terror of the mountains, who
has sworn to kill every Aiiici'hnn he
meets
Mulling id I ( Ilnlliwij.
To-day the t'nllcl Slates atitl Is
maintaining inoio than l:T, miles of
overland transport service between this
Held base and the bolder base at I'o
lutiihus, X. M, l.y liiulo pack wagon
train, inotorc.vclo and auto tiiuk, nip
plles and messages aie being conveyed
over tho toitiiotis winding roads which
have been cut deep by the motor ti licks
and otherwise made almost Impassable
In spite of the constant work of the
engineer corps, but men and animals
are being pushed night and day In the
limit of llielr capacity ntul motor tiucks
sooner unload at iino end of the trip
than they are iiislied back again with
icllef drivers for fresh loads.
This Is the illsailvaulagii wlilih Hie
in my Is winking under heie while L'nti
feet fiom Hie camp mil tho Innks of
Hie Mexico Xorlhu eslei n, Itallioad ex
tending Inn the. 1st to .luaiez, Just ueiors
tho bin del liom 1,1 I'nsii and Hie uiuiv's
bolder Hilppl) depot at I'm I llllss,
lly rail to i:i I'uso II Is ljo miles fiom
hero over the Mexico Xnrthvvestein. Tlie
road Is open mid trains ate making the
run hack and forth two ami llireo times
h week. The cfpilpinent Is not of the
best and the roadbed In sadly In need of
repair, condition! whlrh nuiko tho run.
j ulnar tint about ten hours between here
VANGUARD ON BANDIT'S
HEELS, AVIATORS REPORT
CASAKKAXni:s,Mexlco,Muroh
21 (via radio to Columbus,
X. M.). Aviators report that tho
ndvaniAi columns of tho American
punitive force ate only a half day's
inarch behind Villa.
.Motor cats and pack trains aro
lushing large, quantities of supplies
to tin; new army base, ISO miles
south of the Under.
and Juarez Hut It Is believed that ten
days work by I he engineer corps would
put the toad In such a condition that the
present schedule time could be cut one
half. The rallioad extends l.'.O tulles to the
south of bete. Our ad vain o columns
have inarched miles of the wav and nil
the supplies and additional aii'iiniinlllon
which have been forwarded to them have
been carried overland by pack trains.
t Hill lilliires.es llreriilt.
With each new- mils that tie pi.
stllng columns penetrate Into the oun
try the stiength of Villa s Inrl.itiri'.itnry
preachings to tlie peons is Imrea-hig In
,J.lto of tin. professed droits of th'
small CatranzlMa girrison c.iminandcis
to allay the fears of the populace.
Villa s M.readihv the doctrine '
Mexico for Mexican". lie is deviating
to the people of the mail tortus through
which he passes tnat the I'nlted States
Is now engaged in an Intervention which
has for Its Immediate object the annexa
tion of the northern States of the ru
public and Ibe eventual enslavement of
th" Mexicans to Hie Americans.
lie tells them that the Amerliaii"
have exploited the resoilices of the
eottiitr.v. that they own the mines, the
railroads, the big ranches and haciendas
and most of the big Industiles and hipd.
Hess establishments In the large cities.
Here In Ills native hills, wheie his very
name is held In fear, he h.is imbued
the natives with th belief that the
American soldiers arc monsters Incar
nate, that they come to murder and burn
nnd pillage, that they have been carry
lug off the daughters of the Mexicans
and torturing the old men and women.
It is reported that these beliefs ale
strong in the minds .r the inhabitants
of towns and valle.vs through which Villa
has lied sluie his murderous outbreak at
Oiltimbiis The gathering of information
as to the whereabout of the bandit I
made addition. illy dlllictth In rc.tn.ti of
this fear.
l lit lit Plstlll,
This feelloj toward the .Mneiican
troops prevails strong at the towns of
Ml Valle. liabana and Xaniliiulpa.
tluough which Villa and his band es
timated at alsnit 10ft men. pas-.-d not
more than live davs ago. In cull of the
three villages the bandits lined up all
of the mill, inhablinnts. Villa asked them
w bother the.v would rather be tortured
or worked to death by the Americans or
die like fighting men iclstlng the Amor
I' an dos. lie ottered them horses a.id
guns and ammunition to Jo'.'i hlui.
At la Valle Villas addt.ss to tlie
iowiiMii. n nnd bo.vs did not e.ok.i much
ctithi.rlas.il, whereupon Villa taxed and
delinuiKeil them as ni'vaiil. Thin
wli le th,. wives and mothers of the men
and bo.vs stood l.i and erhd be sp,t.
rated to .voillig linn from tile old and
puked out tiiirt -live of the hnr.llcM.
Tile We'., given men plef.Ten.'e of ac-
coiiiiuiii ing Win oi being shot. They
iv-nt with li i in. Tlire da.vs later seven
..' me colisi'i lids es. ap.il and H turned
In i:i Valle wit i Mmies or mil' Ii haul
s. ii.o. surteriiig and brutaiit.v.
The said Hl.it Villa's liorcs weie in
bad condition from want of food aid
that the men weie little Is'tter off.
Most of Hie huge boises which Villa
stampeded and captured in his raid on
the Thirt.ei.th r.iv.ilrv at Columbus,
they reported, had dropped from ex
hatiMion and the 1.rutallt of their
rideis
A ' i:i V ille Villa left ligllte. li
wounded men, who had endured the long
Might from Colin i iliii", oiilv I.) Is- nli.it.
dorieil.whcn tin .i- bun made them a
burden to t ie outla'.v band.
$40,000,000 MOVIE
'TRUST' IS UNDER WAY
New Ynrk Id lie lf(ii(liiitiitii"
.Mr,v hVkfoi'il anil Clniiliii
AiiHHiy Mitu'it Slurs.
fllii e,", Ma.i i '-'7- .Vow . in n.
land th it's to be pin through ti c in. rgrr
mangle. A "trust" Is (iintrinplntcii
wIik.Ii aims not oul.v to control Ainer
lets moving plctuie liuslnc-" but to
iloiniiiate tr.c vvoild 111 plioto plav...
Within t..n da.vs ii i irporutiou w :!i
u cavllallotlon of some I in.iiiift.nOO will
blossom forth In New Voik elty umlrr
the dlicctlon of It.'llj.i in u It Hamilton,
nun of tlie ii i.'-ite-lilcilts of tlie AiiKli
(all Tolia.cn I'oinpaiiy, lepresentiug
l.l mo till I 111. I.l I ll.ietests, enhlllj pos.
Mbl the Itockelellei,
The nieiger Will .'t'litl .lllzc a liuillli"!
of coiiiiianies now covering tho country
with a vast number of expense causing
(hstributitnt ciuties. The companies in
volved aie Hi" Paramount, I'ulversal,
(leiieral, Mutual, V. I,, s, c. and the
Metio. Tills ai raugi inent will leave only
the Trlliligle, World anl Fox outside of
the trust.
M.uy Plikfoiil Is Hie fli Ft to Men into
this new alignment, Although both she
and Mr. Hampton have Ii-mii i denial",
then, are nutlioi itat i ve i ontli mat Ions of
tin. Moi.v Hint Hie little star i now on a
long time loutracl nt a icpnind salai
of ),"iliii,llliu a .veal Willi tile tobacco
magnate, who Is representing the con
snllihllion lllletesls.
The oilier big Mat in Hie It list ion
stellatlou is Chailes Chaplin, ncently so
si ns, itlnn. illy cupliilid by I lie I, one Slal
I'lllil Comiiaii.v lleleasilig tltliiilgh Hie
MittUiill lit il7il,flli a x . a r Tlie ubsorp
Hon of tin- Mutual will bring the chain
pioti riiumak.'l' into the merger fold.
'I he tiust procedure will ssteniallze
the merging iiiiiipanles thus: Para
moiliit, which Iniluili'K .'.iinniis Players,
l.askv and .Mmo-i o . V I.. S. II., which
Includes Vllagraph, l.ubiti, llssaua.v and
Sellg, anil Metlo, which Includes linlfe
and i 'oliunlii.i. Popular plain and play
ers nnd 1 1 1 . I i lompinies will pioilih'
feallites, 1 1 1 it 1 1 1 ratlier than 1 1 1 1 . 1 1 1 : 1 1 '
mid lime M ln dull being lil.nl" the itile
of ii Dillli t lull.
I'ulversal, .Mutual and ilcncial com
panies will be devilled in Hie making of
the Hinall pictures, the one and two
i eiders, where again (iiiallty will rule,
Tho henihiuiirters will bn In Xew- Vork,
with mint uf the loel tudlos uiiiln-tulneil.
WA1TE ADDSTO
mnnnunnnmAM
mownrcaoiun
ON PECK DEATH
Prisoner Yields to Pleas
Made by Family to Re
veal Entire Plot.
DKKKXCK OF INSANITY
OI'TMNKl) BV FATHFilJ
Iltrlel Attorney Sn.tn'i was In
' formed last night that Dr. Arlhut War
j reu Walte had made a new confession
of his compile!! In the death of his
I father-in-law, John II. feck. Judge
Swnnn was at bis country place and
had not been able to communicate with
Frank A. VA'aite, a brother of the ac
cused dentl.i, to whom the new- state
ment was made In Itellcvue Hospital
prlfon ward last iveiilng.
Frank A. Walte left Itellcvue Hospital
about 1 o'cW'k after spending almost all
I of the afternoon at his brother's bed
i side, urging the dentl.'t to tc'l the
' truth.
"I'll tll you something." Flank Walte
said to the reporter. "My brother ha
made a new statement."
"Did he make a confession."
"He niiiplitle.l and corrected the story
he had already told me. I nm not at
llbert to j. what that was. My
brother's ph.vsUal condition Is good, but
mental! I fear there is tanicthlns
wrong, alliiough I a.n not an ullcms; "
I V t rued to ( onfe..
Woile the father and brottiti '
I'.. Wait- wen- Imploring hlui li.
the afternoon .o tell the Hutu about
hi' .- nil pi l.-.f :. in Hie dentil of his
fathe--ln.aw'. .b.hn K. Pis-k, and
wile la ing the foiiinlatuiii of wbn will
be D" Unites defence -iuarilty v.lnti
lie goes lo trial, indicted fur murder
In the lit si ikgro. District Attorney
.-? w ; 1 1 1 n w.i making int.iesllng discov
eries concet nlug Uatle's pun base of
germ cultures of virulent disease,
Itctwfcu Deiember 17 and March a
prilo.l whlrh comprised the stay of Mrs.
Hannah Pick and John K Peck at Dr.
Walte's apartment m the Coliseum, at
Hlversld.! Drive uliil HCth street, the
death of Mis lv-k and the beslnuitiR
of the violent Illness of Mr. Peek, Walte
went s.x Hints to the bacteilologlc.il
laboratory of the Cornell Medical Col-
' lege, at First avenue and Twenty-eighth
'stre.t, -e.-rai ttm.s aceoTtipanl.'.l bv
I Mrs. Mafjaiet Weaver Morton, the
otliig woman who practised dramatic
expression with him at the Plaza Hotel
and elsewhere, and oMained Iroin an
Ullsll.e. tlllg iell llllies coutalutng
typl'oul ie,r and il.pnrheiia . ultuies.
Ills I i-t errand of this natuie was
on March , the d,i before he bought
1 'v gtammes of arsen.c from an apoth
ecary to whotu he contldeil that his
slumbers had been .lisiiiitnd hv a deep
volieil eat which neeilid kdling. It Is
the theory of the Di-irut Attorney that
Wnlle obtained the t.vplnis and diphthe
ria cultures for Hi,, purpo.e of Inoni
tating the second perMin woo Mood be.
I ween h'tn and un-ut wealth, his gen-
reus and coiiri.bng father-tu-law Mrs.
Peck, the Hist oloiaele, was already re
moved. Mr Peck was tlie second and
the dentists nwV wile, who was to
make her will at Ins IrisistetifH only
a few weeks lain, wa the third.
I : I s Tulics re r.Minil,
Judge Swann doe m,i know or ,f he
does know w.ll not hi. -whither Walte
XUIgllt to poison the hhsiil of his
fathci-iii.iaw with t.vphoid o,- dipht li..-ia.
IhiiPtv ciiltuie tubes w. ie found In
U lute's Iilir.it' at the same time at. the
Imoks wherein description of the us.s
ot aiseiiic weie in c.itifullv marked.
Hut Walte, a dentist wiio did not een
practise his profession, had no legitl
m,.te use for such endures, in Judge
Swann's opinion. .Vbiyh., he used them:
maybe be didn't. Ma lie, as Judge
S vaiiu .suggest, he lacked the sei.-n.
j t lie attii.lltnelits lie essar. to suctess.
t il h ulatuig.
If he did employ this means of Imir.
ling Mr. Peel, out of the woild the ex
I p. tlnieiit wa not a su -i , and the verv
next dale, Match I'. thai occurs In the
chronnloBv of Wnlte's shift enieer be
comes of startling Interest. I m this
day he bought Hie arsenic. There was
lever aiiMhlug subtle about this oung
man's method. He left lichlnd him
finger prints of indiscretion.
Two persons were awaie of Walte's
curious interest In disease cultures, Will.
In in Wohber. a eleik at the laboratories
of the Cornell .Medical College, ami the
ninety .voting woman whoso husband
foiiud nothing exiiMoidlnai about her
having occupied an apaitment with the
dentist at Hie Plaza Motel. Young Web
ber sa.vs that Walte went to the hibora
miles first on December 17, Introducing
himself after regular bouts when Web.
her was alone In llie place Walte pro
ftssul lo be a doctor of medicine en
gagid In Important bio leiologleiil ex
periments. Cats were mentioned- not
that noisy felines had been tntiiilerlng
his sleep but liecau.. they weie to per.
Ifh In the Interests or humanity and
n'lencn. Walte desired to Inoculate cats
with dlnase germs. Would Webber
Mipply hlni with a iiuautlty nf tubes"
Tho pto. eulliig appeared to Webber
to be slightly lingular- -Wu te coming
at such an limit but the cleik had no
lenson to suspect hnpioper motives on
Walte's part and ho furnished the ib
sued ciiltuie t.vphnlil, this lime Tliere
after until Mai eh Walte paid tlvn
more visits to Webber, reporting ex
cellent progress with the ials and e'ach
time obtaining inoic ciiltutes. (hi sev
eral of these oc nullum, Webber sit,
Ml. Ilorton was with the dentist.
Judge Swann says that Mis, Iforton
was awaio that Walte was getting these
dangerous genus, Shu saw a batch or
them "wiggle" upon a glass side. The
dentist was kind enough to let her
ghuiio through a powerful microscope.
Her coc.iilzaiice nf this niatler is being
keenly 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 c-. I Into by Hie District At
torney uieielv as a part of the general
Investigation, In which no detail can be
oveilookeil Hut Mis, Moi'Ioii inutilities
to Insist that she was only Idly In
leiested in Walti 's pntchases nf arsenic
and genus and believed that ho was
reall) using such iliings In hi aelcntillo
labor
Mrs. Morton unln ioelloiieil,
Judge Swann questioned Mis, Ilorton
again yestenhi, Shu reiterated that
hhn never had accepted money from
Wallo and that their relations had been
never anything except soulful and nitls-
CorrllMiierf on Lait Page. "
ARRESTHOSTIN
$3,000 DINNER
PARTY HOLDUP
Police Accuse Mexican Af
ter Armed Men Invade
House and Rob Guests.
VlfTIMS ARE TIIUKK
LATIN AMERICANS
eiuests at dinner party In an opart
tnetit nt l.-. West ir.:,th sttoet on Sun
day night, l.tils I", t.'ona, n lawyer of
.".a I.ibeity Mreet and 11 Wall street:
Ittilllno I.avln, a wralti.y lotion liter
chant of Tori eon. .Mexico, and ModcMa
Alvar.z, a merchant of Vueatan, were
suddenly fwvd by three well dressed
strangeis, all inmed, bound with topes,
partly Mtlp;ie( and rubbed of more than
J.1.f)nii In cash nnd Jewelr. Th'! police
did not give out unv Information of the
rohbet, wh. h bciaiilc public ihrnugli
ofher Miutees.
IS'tictlve llo.v e and Mcclve of the
Fourth district ai tested esterdny Ma
rluno Ilanios, IM .wars old, iMexiean, a
translator, and Itussill Mark, il, a cleik.
both of 53."i West ISuth street, and tin
men were locked up, accused of acting In
concert with the three robbers In com
inlttllig the crime. Itatims was host at
the itlnntr. and the police believe that
the 1 i.i I tin. HI at 61A West l.t 5th slice,
xia reni.d and furnished with tl.e ex
press Id.-,, ot nibbing Mr. V jica and
his fueuils.
Mr. Oore.i. w no was Nitaraguan
Mlnieter to the Fluted Stutea from 1SS3
to I!i0- all,: lias serve .1 l.rs nallvi' coun
tr.v In other diplomatic nms. lost 110
and a watch and chain valued .it Ji'.'-n.
Scnor I.avln was robbed of nearly Kiln)
.mil ll.r.im in Jewelry, this consiMing
of a four carat ill ininti.l, a valuable
pearl and a silver and plullnu n watch.
From Sinor Alvanz 2y, a stickpin and
a watcli ,ui, olialti were taken.
Ilnlilier lelliiis ri- IXimmIn.
Seiior l.av.n has been ri Hie cit ev
ct.il weeks and tas at tlie Imperial
Hotel. Scnor Alvarei 1s at the Hotel
America. Ui.'i Mast Fifteenth street.
These two men and .Mi Corea have
long been flieti'lf
To assist 1 1 it ii m 'a,s basin' h corre.
sioii,euce Senor l.av.n employed Ituinoe,
who -is'aks and rites both Mugllsh and
SpiiiiDh fluently. The translator ap.
Iicaled tn him as a likable pertain, and
when the coium men hat. I was Invited to
I'ling his two trends In un Informal
(duller in the 11,'ith uticet ap.irliin.nt he
cuusenti.d tenil'l M.ir wa introducc-1
to the ginsts when t.ie parti had as
ftmbled Tlie iiirun..-. i orfee a:.d lipjois had
been served when thiee strangers sud
denly entered the loom. Slmult.incoi.jdy.
according to S. nor l.avin, Itamos and
Mark disappeared Mach intruder dls
I'l.ijcd a revolver. Two raised their
weapons in the eliiei tlon of the dinner
guests wiiilc one commanded.
"Now keep Mill and hack up against
the wall."
Taken unnwaie. Mt e'o-ia and tho
others obe.ved without resistance. Then
the third of Hie strangers prodliied a
rope and bound each victim baud and
foot When all had been made pris
oner", tho other men laid down their
revolvers and proceeded todlsiohe partly
the three business men Their clothing
was searched thoroughl. Pockets weie
turned liilde out and even Hi- lining
nf coats, waistcoats and Irouserr was
examined,
lloliliers rTnlile, ol lloliuli.
The loblur .ippe.llfll to be ill lid
hurry to finish their work They chatted
affably with one another while1 the ex
ntnlnatloii wii m progress, and save
when the ropes were being drawn about
the hand and fee' of their victims
showed no dispositioti to be rough with
them. When tile seiir.h was completed
thev deposited the tolen money and
gem in their pockets, picked up their
revolvers and .pilcHy left the apattluciir.
Not until the well dre.sed robbeis had
gone did ItaiuoH and Mark leappear.
"Did the rob voti too"" exclaimed
Mark "Thev got us tn the kltiheii and
took our inoii'1 "
However, ueltner the hot nor his friend
had been bound, n fact which afterward
truck Mr e 'orea aid th1 othets i
Miange. .Mark free I the three guests
rioin their lope fasten'ngs and assist. el
tlieni with tae coats Then It imos,
with profuse expte.slnns of legr.'t that
such a tragedy should have occurred In
his home nti.l at his pntv, bade the three
business men good night
Mr. Corea and Senor. I.aviu and AI-'
vaiez went in a police statin! at dice
ami lepotted the lobbeiv The polhe
mad. no public repoit'nf Hie alfalr and
the tht InforiiiHtlon was given last night
b Senor I.aviu Following their airet
llairios and Mailt professed Ignorance, of
the Identity of th" robber, but the vic
tims were able to give a detailed descrip
tion of them The piillce an Haiti that
tlie men now detained weie confederates
eif tin actual pe i petratois and that they
admitted them to the apaitinent by pic
airangemetit I. ills Felipe l "urea has been a mem
be of the law linn of Johnson, 'ialson
(X Cotea since1 linn, Horn in C.raiiada,
Nicaragua, he was educated in tho Na
tional College In that city nip) Central
Fnlverslty of iliiatiinala, lie was for
a number of .ve.irt. a piofe.sor In the
latter Institution and aftenvanl wax on
the bench at Tntotiloapaiu and at vjue
zallen ingo.
Ml e'orea eiileieil the diplomatic re.
vice of Nlcaiaaua II IMoi and servi'd as
M'. ielai'v to the legation and chaige d'af.
falres In Washiugtoii licfore I oiniiig
.Mlllistei Mis, Cniea was fnrnierl Miss
India Hell Veddcr Fleming of Washing,
ton,
TO EXPEL SINN FEIN LEADER,
,l niiiliin ndcil In l.i'ine1 Ire lnnel In s.
ln I'vvo (llliers share 1'nle,
I. onpoX, Mai cli s" A, Monalioii of
lialwa.v, orgauicr of Slim Felu volun
teers, has been served by the nillltaiy
authorities witii an expulsion order, n'
ooiillng lo elespatchi'S from Dublin. Me
Is coniniaiiibil to leave Ireland within
Six llllS,
II. Hi the and Willlnui liellnwe, ivho
weie ai nslcd on Satniday and ate now1
in ilcleiitlou hatracks in I ml il I it. have
been set veil with similar nolle c,
r.x-lieet, llariiioii's Wife lleitel.
Cincinnati, Ohio, March i'S iTucs
day) Mrs. Ollva Scobey Ilaiiium, wife
of former Oov, JimI.huii t. Ilarnioii, died
early this nrvoriilng. rthe hd been In III
health for some time.
WILSON LOSING FAITH
IN GERMANY; CONVINCED
TORPEDO SANK SUSSEX,
Will Take Matter Before Congress if Final Evidence
Justifies Conviction Offer of "Dis
avowal" Received Coldly.
Wasiiimiton. Match 27. With tho
tension lu o."lo:-.l rcle ''ourly In rea
Inn as cable despatches bring flesh evi
dence that the IJngllsh Channel steamer
iSusex was torpedoed without warning,
the submarine Issue with (ierniany Is
authorltlvcly described to-night its hav
ing reached the singe! wheie Piesldent
Wilson may soon be rotted to take sum
mary action.
The Piesldent will lescrve final Judg
ment until ail the evidence in the case
I liefine hlui. If he find that the Sus
sex was ntta.ked without warning, In
violation of the pledges of (iermany, he
will advlw Congres.s of what he pteiposes
to do and pioceeil to act,
According to the btat information oh
taltnible ,ii otlh lal epiatters to-night
thiTo will be no preliminaries and no
further t.nie !ot in negotiations if com
plete evidence shows that Germany has
countenanced attacks iu violation or In
evaalon of guarantee:! repeatedly made
to the L'nited States as to the conduct
of subniarilie warfale,
lu view of tho authoritative stetciiient
111 Impression is sttnng that If tier
many Is shown to have violated her
pledges to the Failed States by attack
ing tl.e passenger ship Sussex, the sev
erance of diplomatic relations will be
more than a leniote sisilhlty. The
Plesident i said to feel that ill tills
case in. tiling van be gullied b diplomatic
exchange An Inspln d offer of repara
tion and disavowal which reached the
Whit" Mouse unolllc.ally from tJerriian
soiirvis lat ilns afternoon met with a
frigid leceptioi1
Wilson tire II ' loriieelii.
Il was said tlatlv Hint the Prcsielent
H not inten .sled in ellsavowals and x
ciie. Me is Interested only ui the.1
fact pertaining to the cause of the ex
Vh'slon on the Sussex, which Jiopanl
lied American lives. At nomi to-day lie
was morally i.rta'.n that the e xplosion
had been oaus.-l b n totpedo. l p to a
late hour nothing had been icniveel to
alter thl view.
The inspired liiimaii il.s.ev ovva'.. ": I
case it should be shown that a i lei man
submarine attutked the Sus-ex." which
reached White House circles mioii after
tbei news of the Prer-idcnrs slgiiltleaJit
conference e pit Senator Stone of the For
eign Itelatlmis Cotntnltlfe. permeated dip.
Inmalie cir le No one sieinnl to know
delinltel wh"te. the eietinan disavo,val
u f,.,,, . . it...,ia..,rrr i,us
not leturnel from New Voik, and in-i
etiiiry at t ie lierivnn l'iiib.i"v bnnulit
the i'"p! thai the einb is li.nl not'
authoiixed a st itemcnt 1
Later It developed that the di-avowal i
was lenl.v a private opinion of a tier
liiati illjiloniat, i.xpre'sed in the ln.u
that It would t.vnl tn ease the tension.
Seqietary l..in-uii said he had heard .
nothing ottlctally or uiiotllclally from ,
Herlln to-l.i AsKe. :f he had brought
tne case to the. attcr.t,ci of the Herman
tjoverrun.-n. he replied "Not vet,"
.Meanwhile good and bad news came
alternately ,., cable despatches lo the
White llo.ie Ambassador Walter
Mine Page sent the follow lug cable
"Shnip report. Mis. Feiuiell. Miss
Male ntul thiee llaldwliis afe in 1'raiiee.
Tins accounts for all American, on the
Suse.x "
merle1!! Il l.osl on he llliullslililiiii.
Hut the Ami I n an Cm.., ul at P.iislol
contlttiied tlie President woist suspi.
clous regarding the rcpu.ic.l attack ol a
ebriuaii submarine on the Dotnuiloii
Idler Kngllshlu.ill. In' it left little doubt
that A'lictican lix t- nnd been Ins. The
eabbgrani sa il
Local agen' of t ie Dom.i.,un Line Is
Infotmeil from l.iv. rpool that tl.e total
loss of life on t'to steamship Lugll.sli
m.iii 1 si vin Inn semen and thiee mem
bels of ciew I till Aui. tlcill I. ported
Iot I P. Hu.l.h v. (ml Am. rican sur
vivor a! Itrlstol ,s (iiotge McDonald."
Although the case of the englishman
ma have as important a bearing on the
submarine Issue a, the Suv-ex cae at.
telitiiei at the White Mouse and the State
Depirtineiit was to-day ( culled on the
latter because of the volume of olliclal
reports vvnicli i ame m con, ming it and
because of Hie growing proof : hat It
demonstrate!! a violafon o' i7crin.inr'
pledge not to att.n ! una lined p.i.engir
slii'is w Ithout w aining.
Fntll last evening then hud been it
dpatlons thai a mice ami not ,i tor
I'ldo might have been responsible, but
Senator Stone fn'iud evideiKi all the
other way when he youfened w.tli the
President Tlie tnfoi tiiatlnii w hi. Ii has
reached tlie Willi- House hull, a tec, It
Is explained. ! nr the Pi(sneut and the
country ma hive siiiaie' M r.oe tin
following facto
I'll si, that i Serin, Hi lias Mil ,vid up
to Its pledge, to tne. l'nited Slates that
unarmed passenger slips will not be
atiacki'd b siilim irlncs wilhout .eain
'lig. Second, tli.it eieriii.'iii s a, Hon mill,
cates ii decs not intend lo refrain fumi
aitacMng passerge" ehiin oi merchant
ships without xv ui mug, regatdless of
Piesldent Wilson's stand that the rights
of American citizen must enjoy the pro.
tedloii which liitertiatlon.il law nevoid
them on the li alt ee.is
HITiM.lIti i1Iiiii NeiiiiMiir,v
The Pn sidei I is s,,nl to realize fal,
nei.v that. I'avlng taken Ins stand or
lh" piole.tlon of American i.:ht u..dit
lililu.illon.il law.' lie iiiii-i stick ,.. it
or iiiicoiulltiiiii.ill su, leader. The pio
ti, uited excluiligrs of poles and the dip.
Imtii.it lo parb.vs have euicoiiiagi'd the
President to believe that I ici mall would
gradually adhere lo Hie Amer.ean point
of view, and fni this leason, it. i k ,,,
tiie President ha strained evcty point
in keep negotiations on an aiuiyaiilc
basis, but Hie (Uinulativi1 evidence that
ileimaii siilini.it Incs aie attacking n.is.
senge" ship and nu'rchnnl shl- with. I
out milium: anil tne lact that American
lives have been endangered and saeri.
Meed in the Sussex nnd Englishman
casi have hi ought the President to the
realization Dial something nion eirertive
than diplomat' 1 coinmiiiilcatlotis t
lie.-esMirv
This at least i t, e auli la.n,.
stalcinent of the pteiidents altitude
whloli comes fiom White Mouse mil, aits,
Incidentally It m.i be said then, is no
atleinpl beliig iidc to cniphuslzo ihc
gravity of the situation for the i,..el.i
benellt of Herman olllclaldom. Tills
has been the e'ase in evrtaln Instance! In
the past, when It vva felt that fin man
opinion might Is best educated to he.
lleve that Uie President and the United
States weie In deadly eatiiet I'he
tendency to-elay is to minimize t
gravlty tathnr VtK.it to ac. cntum t,.
For that leanon all the allldavlts oi
Aiuerli'an passengein on the Sussex had
all reference, lo "torpesloes" eensoreel out
of them before Hiey were given to the
pres by tho State Departn tit. Sevic
t.u.v Lansing adinltted this nftciuuu
that this was the case.
explanations at the State Depart
ment weie uniformly reserved, Net emu
incut was made otllcially on Hie cans.
of the explosion, although Svietary
Uinsing aduilttiel that several Aiuer
lean passeligsrs lu swe.rn slnte i.i ule
said they had seen tlio wake of u tor
pedo, lu addition, thn American t'oiiMtt
(it Boulogne rcpoitcd that a Flench o, ti
cer there had found a fragri'iit of what
appcari'd tn be a (icrnian torpedo on
the ilamageil deck nf the Sussex. L'n
olllclal reports that t.ic Dutch I love li
me nt had con.) far to prove that 'he
liner Ttib,uitlii xvas torpedoed by .ni-an
of a broken fnigiiieiit of torpedo re-eiued
from the deck of that ship gave added
Interest to the Consul's lepuiL
When ask.1.! If It wemld b.: iieiessary
to prove elellullely that a lie1! mall nib
nun 1111.1 sank the Sussex lu case It was
shown that the ship was turpi deed, an
ottl.'lal of the State Deplillliielil said It
would not be reasonable to suppose that
any othur tluiu u (ierinaii siihmailii.3
could have been re'spouslble1.
"I have never hi'ard eif hii Austrian or
Turkish Mibmattue torpedoing vessels lu
the Hrltish (.'haiiuel," was the verbatim
reply.
Seeti'tarv Lansing nuiioiiureil to-day
that the State Department's inquiry of
the Turkish i .nviTiiuient. nklng if a
Turkish submarine had attacked the pas
senger ship Persia, had brought ie de
laed reply In the negative1. The teply
said that nil Turkish subroutines lly the
(.'tinman llag. No submarine! Hying the
Ottoman llag had attacked th. Persia.
Therefore nr. Tinklsli submarine had at
taeked the Peisla.
The State Departllltn: alleady had ill
ejuireil of the lleiliu and Vleiiiin (lov
criiinent" if a eiermnu oi Austrian sub
marine was lespoiislble lloih had te
plii'd III Hi" negative, leaving finl) Turkey
to be heard from.
.Meanwhile the situation at the Caplml
renialne.l calm, lu striking contrast to
tho situation a few weeks ago. when
Congress showed a dsKiltloii to Inter,
fere with the nnned merchantmen Issue.
Lead.rs In both the Senate mid Moue
nr.1 eouv lined that the President will
proceeel cautlousl , and there Is everv
linllcatlon that he will have1 the solid
backing of both branches of Congress
In whatever action he elevldes to take.
The President Is understood te have
liifoimeil Senator Stone that he would
keep l otigress advised of .lev eloplllellts,
.ul e'e.ngies leaders will l. Informed
in ;i'U,in f ,iiiv eonli inplated eliasllc
a. Hon. That the President may go be
fell. 'oiigi.ss after be ha i.ach'd bis
elielsloti and review Hie eutlie Oerman
siibmaritie contiove'i' 1 remsidered one
of the po-stlde (.(inrse of action which
m.i.v be priv.pltate.l by he e'.ese of the
Sussex.
SHIP SUNK: AMERICANS SAFE.
Two ll seilllislili lloilllil for VI n o.
liester Wrls Tiirtecileieel,
I..p,is. Mai, , ;7 -The Hritish
vessel Man. iiesti'i Mngiiieer was tor
Issloed to..la. A tug trhd to tow her
Into port, bin t "e Manchester Kngiti.er
fotiii.Iere d before n.ichlnc iirt All
inemls.rs of tlie1 ctew of the Manchester
Mugine'CC have been landed.
Among th.'tn are Arthur Ma. kenzie
of Savannah. e!a. liinl Tmi Piper of
Delawate Thev assert that tne sub
marine uiikklv vatns'hiil at t ie approach
of aimnl ship.
Tin' DaiiWh stiMiii-hui Ma: t let also
has been silitn All those aboard were
sai ed
Details nganl.iig the -inkini: c-t.r-day
of the llrlt h llm r .Minneapolis in
th. Mediterranean ate withheld All that
is known at tlie pi (sen1 i- Hut sin was
in e !nv eminent service It i learned
tliat ICS or her crew were landed at
Malta. I'.hvcn ale believed to have
been lost.
Since Mar. Ii I siv-.en Itrl'.sli. the
French, tv.i I' ll, n, five No vvegian and
thiee Danish ves-el have been sunk
Tie Mill, liester Kllgllleer s.ie, hn'll
Philadelphia on .March II for Maticlu .
ter She was a ve-scl of ;.vi:', ton net
and w. - own,. I i. 1 "urnt-s--.. With. ,x
Co, l.'d lie' oniinaiiilct w is i ' i pi,
Stniih
KITCHENER ON THE SUSSEX ?
V) iishlimlien llioirs ,,,,,,,,,,., I 'i,.
till b'l'i I fne Mliicl,.
llM,Te., M.tl.h .-Tlie re . au
une onilrined repm t lute that L.i'l
Kit, lien i . Itruish Secii-'ai'V of s.at,
for War, was a passenger on the misscx
I Hint Ins prescn, ,. apoai.l the I'ha: n.-l
liner may have some conne uou witi
the aiieinpteil destl in t ell of the vessel.
Il is known that Mail K it.-heinr ai
tlvcil ill Paris .visteidi In attend the
Lilt, nle Allies- war coun. I pie-s ,,...
patches rcfi I to a proiiriu i t pe rsonage
who was auioug the Sip. sex passeugtrs
and whose name fie London ..me.
Sionden.s weie mil p. i in ;ted to un nt op
9G NORWEGIAN SHIPS SUNK.
'JO I (ii pciloed S7 lli.tilh
ll I Il I'lllalllle I Us ,i in
t !
essels.
fttrntl I ,ttlr tit ;illi n Till i
l.oMsiN. Mar. Il dest.ai,
I'lipciihagi u iii..ti the 7 ,,1,-nu.i,
I
OH
smug ti.il t,uutv-..x Niivvegiaii slntis
have tn. n Mini, b) Mibiuai iins oi in.i,, .
Sll'i e till' OUH'ICII. o (lie u (.. m
wlili Ii an known to have h. in t . i
'II t X of
I, (I d
I we lit v -seven Noiwesim liav
been
killed i let many nave mo jiepsat ion oulv
fur four s-liip. lecrn.au iiis e.iuits
seied I llll lllbe I' of otWe. , ,-ll. l
llddltfiill lii the loiegoiin:
Swi de n, ac, oiillng In tl i I i.inish navel.
lost fni t s-liiiw- All Igetl . r, I'.'v Swilllh
weie killed
DR. ANGELL IS NEAR DEATH.
President lliiieellos nf VMelilm,,,
Mas lluhl I hiince,
Vvx ineoe. Men. Mailt ; ,s.
Cl, IP Hold nllt II. :t sliliill pop,. f, ,,
.1,11111 S II AllgiH til'esl I. I i lllel I . ,
the Fnlveistw eif Mnlilga i, who hii'
been sinking fast for Iwetii.e .four 'loiir
Dr. Atigell has been seweielv ,. saie,,
hi elglity-seventh hlMlnla, several
weeks Kg".
All of Ills lelallvcs wen notified to.
night of Ids condition and rriiucstrd to
hasten hfii',
SAW TORPEDO,
SAYS CAPTAIN
OFTHESUSSEX
Fragment of Metal Slum it
as Fvidence of How Ycs
xel Was Destroyed.
AM KIM CANS SAVKU:
TWO RADLY HFRT
London Kmbassy oiliciuls
Take Testimony and Con
clude liHiuiry.
I. S. CITlKN KILLED
ON Till: KNOUSIIMAS
Atlacks on Channel Uoats
Many, Say Rritisli. but
(Jerinans Suffer. Too.
iffni Cnhle nmiMtelt In Tur. si v
LonIsin, March "7 The Admiralty
has lecelvid the report of e'apt. Mouffi :
o' the Channel steamer Sussex tegafJ
Ing th altaik on that vested on .-..iinr-day.
It is in all essentials Identical vv til
the IVeiiih olliclal statement.. Tin, cap.
tain Mate. explicitly thai lie saw tn.
totped,, xx lin li drstro.ved the.1 vesse..
This statement is support.-l b.v i
piece of metal found on thn .r, k of thn
Sussex niul which is now ,n the .o:e ..
siein of the Admiralty. Ulllclal. .iy
that t ie fragment Is undoubtedly from a
torpedo.
The Amciican Linh.is.-y V invcstlga
tions have been concluded. AnibasMidor
Page has reported the Admiralty
opinions to the State Department at
Washington.
It was 1. .unci lo.day that the Susses
Is b no means the tlist Channel boat
the ilermaiis have attacked. It Is stated
thn' iiumeiou other attempts have been
iiiaiic to sink vessells plying between
Lnglisn and French channel ports, but
they were all tinMicces.ful,
Lug. lie .Sioecraft. one of the America '1
Mmbassy s secretai uis, visited several i -Ji.ied
Amencans in the hospital at Dove
and telegraphed to Ambassador Page to
day tli.c W. el. IVntleld, who is siultt
fioin a btoheii thigh and sex. nil other n
Jut les, I not In a serious condition.
Tvvo seel. Mist Injured.
Tie conditio! of i;,.irge Crocke',
another American, howevei. jeriou.
Ctocker has a fra, Hired skull and .ca.
wound. .1 D, Ac.tJtagi of New Voik,
who la a naturalized A met lean, born n
Li. gland, n suftertng from the elT.e.,
of the shocks and seveial bruise.. His
( nnd. tl" n Is not seiiou.
telegr.iiai rrom Pails states '
Pior. James Mark Hablwni, Mrs. Pile
win and Mls LlUals-t'' Itahlwlti arc a.
Wlineraux, near lioitlogi e. Miss Hai, .
win was seriously hurt
This a. counts for all Ame1 cans w
Weie on tlio Su-srx No American In e.
wen lo-t, and only two, Cnnli.r nil
Mts llaldwtn. are sei'iouslv iiijnied.
Tim American Consul at lltitol re
isirts to t'e emi.,isv bete thn t ..
steaush.p Lnglishn, er which w.n ui",
ou the same day tl.e Sussex wa de
troed. wa mil engaged in lim ei mni lit
bulnes. P. Iliickle), an Vtiie'rn-ai
ho.seiiian, who.e address i no! known,
was killed Tlv total number of th.,M
kill. I in Hie sinking of the llnulisli i an
Is sev. ii hoi'seiiieii and tlucc in. mln is .
the ciew. '
" sli the e bo ma ns how man. ubf.
Iltie.s fail to leltirn." said a P.rillsh ot.
e-l.il of high rank to-diy when asked 'f
Hie re, ent e ft i t ivemes of the Herman
niluil.il Ine sgn(le, thai th" situation
' gelling nut nt P.ritnih hands ai d
if the ( ie'iinaiis ai'" i...e,lng In the -"fi
ightf illness" i .nnpaigii.
Til's ntll. nil indicat.d. hut could e t
tell anv ib tails, that although the 'br
tnnn F boats had suuksiiinv ship-, ilm
i h i in uis weie not havitu a i th. f i"' 't
wa .
"i if .o.iive.-" said he. 'tlie1. e n o .t
-t.it ntinibeis of siibmai no . We ea -not
..itch all. and the smkl ig ..f unpui.
te. t. d ships like the Sus-i x and Ibe l. ig-h-liman
is not n veiv diltlcult mailer
We . intiot l.-ll then what ha I lie
of i lie siibtnni uies thai do no' . one.
lpeiie We think .1 I I"-' to let then
win iv annul theon. and." lie added with
a s.n.le, "thev inti-l have some worn
' 11,1.1 Ighollt ntll, lal I'll, lis Fine I 'o
p. rim hat ou on, ertiins ilotnan s..c-
. ( so1.-'
C.c one I ' I'll V be g.i'i a" ui'iue.-t
to-il.l levee tl'le ol the bodice of Sls-e
victim Two wet, lirlgtan 1 '.u
Hill, I an It ilia i
ci:ov!i:i no at missisg.
V lillnissildor shlll'll Hep Itseeoe
of l lilerlinllis "II snssct.
VV vslt i . . Mai. i D laud 'C
pot - of pa--. g."s "tr I lea H" a" " '
,n l''e il-l X we'. I e 1 I I' tile St, I'O
1 nvi.il tin.
t.l-i.H
The fol.ow.'ig l.eglaii' V' ccvul
e gl an
".lip
,1'u Atuliassado! ?
Pa
"FtVe' W Ittle . s
lohl II II a le, M.S.
W. Wallcil. Mis- i bl .-llilc H.ll'ii- -l.i-llid
I', "rill s, 'I' W I 'llll'i'l ! I. .ill Amee
'allll slirvlVOis of Hie MfcX, who IllV1
thus far gu.n the t rv iili a1 in Hi -I
illlli.l's.v. sllbsl.lllll.lllv .!'.' I ioe f"
lllW II, g f.O I '
"llsplosion il . ill i h", of S'lsex -. '
i lined at nli'lilt H " o. k ill I hi ,lter
loon ed the Jtlb in -t .iliiiietin,ilelv 'o
Hi., iniddle of the Channel No laud 1
I ,l s.glu, sea p i f 1 I v ci in,
wc, 'llie. ideal
"VI i iv ol' the pa i gi , e nib i v ii e I
,et , , t , , ,ie g, l into hfcci'.l! . of W'nii.l
I', II wci,. -i Willi I -I. Ill He'd can in,
.111.1 f( o' I went V -live lee c,. il lllll.o
lh
I I, d ft . ul' I"
Hi!.
W.I'.
' .1
low
, , ng , lt. ll I" lh
ille . I,i.,i: - an '.' d "
Hie wit,' II. II W ll ll
so. - w I i I'll ow li end
i'w
a nil
aim
,! .ved
to i avi I li'ow lied
line nf liicse boats filled w
pa
;i 11
at d
' bcis did not ""turn to tin Su.
rv
: no tiding of this boat have been (
celvi'd by till. embassy. Several hourt
ji-liiliseii before fny boat camo to the an-
