f oneatial Rains Over East and Middle W
HARRISBTJRG TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 69
TORRENTIAL RAINS CAUSE
MENACING FLOOD STAGES
THROUGHOUT BIG SECTION
Susquehanna River Will Rise to 13 Feet by Tomorrow
Morning, Demain's Forecast; Melting Snows in Upper
End of State Swell Streams Throughout Valley;
Downpour to Continue
Juniata 14 Feet Above Normal, and Many Are Rescued
From Inundated Homes by Boat; Buffalo Threatened
With Most Disastrous Flood in History of City; Hun
dreds Homeless at Columbus, Ohio
Torrential rains during the last forty-eight hours have caused
menacing flood conditions in many sections of the country, driving
many people from their homes, and causing heavy damage to prop
erty.
.Much of the snow which has lain for several weeks in the moun
tains along the watersheds of the rivers, melted with the rising tem
perature, and flool stages are reported at many of the river stations
in states in the eastern part of the United States.
No immediate danger of flood here is expected, although the
river will go to thirteen feet before to-morrow morning, according
to E. R. Demain, United States Weather Bureau forecaster.
State Water Supply Sends
Oat Flood Warnings; 15 Ft.
to Be Maximum Rise Here
Three-quarters of an inch of rain
fell in the city since early this morn-
Inn and heavier rainfall in other sec
tions of the State alone; the West and i
Juniata branches of the Susquehanna
river caused a rise of four feet within]
the last twenty-four hours.
The state will reach 13 feet to-mor
row morning, according to the fore
nut. Rapid rises In the Juniata and
West branches, due to the melting of
timet! of the snow along the water
shed, caused flood conditions at many
points along these smaller streams,
nnd in several places more than an
Inch of rainfall was reported at S J
o'clock this morning.
The storm which caused heavy rains i
in the eastern part of the country re- j
mains centered over the upper Ohio ;
river valley, according to reports.
Tlie State Water Supply Commission
report issued at 1 o'clock announced J
that should the rainfall continue along
the Susquehanna and its branches, a;
flood stage may be reached at Harris- .
burg: otherwise the stage will not ex- I
reed 15 feet, which will be reached at!
noon.
Flood warnings were sent out this'
morning to a number of towns along j
the Juniata and West branches with!
the maximum stages to be expected at.
the various points.
Flood conditions according to the
commission are expected at a number
of points on the branches with the
Juniata rising and the rain continuing.
Flats on the opposite side of the river
at Huntingdon on the rite of the old.
fair grounds were inundated, and in!
the warnings sent out by the commis
sion maximum stages were predicted
as follows along the Juniata: 26 feet j
at Newport: 27 feet above low water
mark at l.ewistown: 2l> feet at Mifllin
town and an approximate stage for
Mt. Union.
Thi main stream and principal tri
butaries of the west branch along the]
upper reaches, were reported rising
with the following stages: Clearfield,
8.0 feet: Kenovo. I ">.4 feet; Williams
tort, 16.1 feet. Maximum stages pre
dicted on this branch by the commis
sion follow: Kenovo. IT feet; Lock j
Haven. 12 feet; Jersey Shore, 25 feet, j
and l.ewisburg, 20 feet. No exceptional
stages were reported from stations!
along the North branch.
The United States Weather Bureau j
office at Pittsburgh furnished the Wa-I
ter Supply commission with a bulletin I
n( noon predicting a stage of 24 feet I
at Pittsburgh to-morrow morning and \
26 teet at Wheeling. W. V., on
Thursday evening.
EMPRESS OF MIDLAND SI NK
London. March 28. Sinking of
the British steamship Empress of Mid-|
land is reported in a Reuter dispatch!
from Amsterdam. The steamship |
I'romer. from London, arrived last
night at Maasluis, Holland, with all
the crew of the Empress of Midland.'
The I mpress of Midland sailed]
from New York January 5 for Car-[
diff, Wales.
THE WEATHER
For VlnrrlMhurn nnil vicinity* llnln
(d-nlKhtt Wednemla.v partly
cloudy: out much cliuiik<' In tem
perature! lowext to-night about
JIM degree*.
For Ka«terii I'cniiN vlvnnla: Hnln
to-night: Wednesday pnrtly
cloudy; moderate to freitli north
east to north wind*.
River
Substantial rl*en liuve oeeurred In
tlie Susquehanna river nnd ftt k
princlpnl trihutnrleM In tlie luMt
twenty-four bour.% and practically
nil streams are now rising.
*tn«e* near the flood point have
oeeurred In the Juiilnta and tlie
Went llraneli aud Hood staice* are
likely to he reaehed and prohalily
slightly exceeded within the next
«%venty-four bourn nt Kenovo nnd
WllllaniNport nnd probnbly nt
Clearfield. There la no Immediate
Hanger of flood fttngen In the
\orth llraueh, lint under proper
weather conditions they may oc
cur within two or three diiyn. V
Mtage of alMiut thlrteea feet I* In
dicated for llnrriMhurg Wednes
ilay morning.
General Conditions
Xo material change has oeeurred In
the disturbance over the eastern
part of the country. It In 2to ill! {
degree* colder over tlie eastern
half of the country and In (he
\orthweat.
Temperature: S a. m. 38.
Nun: nlues, a. m.; sets, (1:^(1
p. m.
Moon: New moon. April 2, 11:21
a. m.
Hirer Stage: O.fl feet above low
water mark.
Yenterday'a Weather
Highest temperature. IS.
I.owent temperature, tl.
tempernturc. 44.
Aormal temperature, 42 9
BY CARIUEK " CENTS A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 3 CENTS.
Two-Day Rain on Top of
Heavy Snow Sends Streams
Over Banks in Michigan
By Associated Press
Detroit, Mich., March 28. —Southern
i Michigan to-day was menaced by
j flood conditions which in some sec-
I tions were the most serious in a dozen
years. A two-days' rain coming im
i mediately after a snowfall which aver-
I aged nearly a foot in depth, sent rivers
and creeks out of their banks in prac
tically the whole State south of tiie
Straits of Mackinac.
The situation in the Saginaw river
valley probably was the most danger
ous to-day. Bay City, at the mouth
of the river and Saginaw, about fifteen
miles ui) stream, were threatened with
further inundation l«y the flood wa
j ters pouring Into the Saginaw from
a dozen tributaries. In some of these,
| ice gorges were being dynamited In an
! effort to let loose the backed-up water.
| The Michigan Central and Detroit
; and Mackinac railroads were unable
to run trains north of Bav Citv their
i tracks being washed out in numerous
[Continued on Page 7.]
WASSON WORKING
WITH BROWN UPON
DELEGATE LISTS
He and Dctrich Go Over Situa
tion; Much Talk of Peace
Is Heard
I _ A'though __ Henry Wasson , of
I ittsburgh. Republican national com
. mitteemun. and A. Ncvin Detrich, of
< hambersburg, chairman of the
'Washington party Slate committee,
j were at the attorney general's office
to-day arranging details or the cam
paign for election of Republican na
tional delegates, and it is suspected.
)ot candidates for Republican State
j committee, there were hopes express
ed in other parts of the Capitol that
there would be harmony in the selec
| tion of national delegntes-at-largo
and district.
i Governor Brumbaugh to-day re
ceived a number of visitors including
[Continued on Page 21
Suffrage Leaders Concede
Another Defeat in Efforts
to Get Bill Before House
B.v Associated rress
Washington, March 28. —th e
j House Judiciary Committee met to
i day for final action on the Susan B.
i Anthony constitutional amendment
lor nation-wide woman suffrage with
j suffrage leaders conceding another
| defeat in their efforts to get the pro
posal before the House. They were
i assured of the support of oniy nine
of the 21 members of the commit
| tee.
President Wilson's aid In securing
congressional action will again be
sought, it is announced, after suffrage
leaders concluded their western cam- j
paign when they will also report to'
him the 'results of their trip. ;
House Fights Over
Free Sugar Repeal
By Associated Press
Washington, March 28. Reopen
ing of the light in the House over the
i repeal of the free sugar clause of the
'tariff was forecast to-day as a result
! of the action of the Senate Democratic
I caucus last night in voting 23 to 7 to
substitute for the House repeal reso- \
[ lution, a resolution extending the pres- i
! ent duty on sugar. The struggle is i
expected to come when the Senate'
proposal is returned to the House for i
; concurrence. ,
j ' Louisiana Senators lead the opposi-i
! tion to the House bill declaring that
a four-year extension was no as
| suranee to sugar growers and pro- i
ducers of that State and that it would
.be futile to restore activity to its <
sugar industry.
IMMIGRATION 811,1, TO PASS
Washington. March 28.—The House
! to-day continued work on the im- 1
: migration bill with indications that
ithe measure, together with its literacy!
test provision Intact, would be pass-!
led by an overwhelming vote during I
! (lie day. This was forecast as a result
nf the house In committee of the i
v hole yesterday in approving, 225 to
tlie literacy test.
HARRISBURG, PA., TUESDAY EVENING, MARCH 28. 1916.
TWO VIEWS OF DR. WAITE'S FELLOW STUDENT
MRS. MARGARET HORTON
Mrs. Margaret Horton has explained to the New York County District
ne.v that Dr. Arthur Warren Watte, now charged with the murder of his wife's
parents, rented a suite in the Hotel Pla/.n, New York, as a studio for them.
She said they wished to study languages. Later she said she believed, Dr.
Waite Intended to kill both her and her husband.
ACCUSED DENTIST
READY TO MAKE
FULL CONFESSION
Dr. Waite Prepared to Make
Clean Breast; May Have
Administered Germs
New York. March 28. The case
against Dr. Arthur Warren Wuite, ac
cused of murdering his father-in-law,
John E. Peek, is expected to be vir
tually completed when District Attor
ney Swann goes to Bellevue Hospital
[oiu'liniied on Page 12]
PENN HIGHWAY
IS ASSURED AS
MEETING ENDS
Promoters of Big Project Go
Home Happy,-Confident of
Success of Project
Promoters of the William Penn '
Highway were jubilant to-day over the
great gathering in Fahnestock Hall ;
yesterday, when the William Penn i
Highway Association was formed. The :
crowd far surpassed in numbers the
fondest hope of the most ardent road
enthusiast and from indications all
that remains to lie done Is to carry out 1
the purposes of the organization. With
the election of a board of governors j
and officers yesterday and the adoption
of the constitution and by-laws the'
[Continued on Page !>.]
FOUR DEAD AND
100 MISSING IN
MINE EXPLOSION
Blucfiold. W. Va.. .March 28.—An
explosion occurred this morning in
the cast entry of the kinjr Coal Com
pany's mint' at Kiliilmll. near here.
Four dead have already Ix-en taken
from the mine, ami it is feared a
number of others have been killed.
Soon after the dead had been lo
cated. rescuers found four other men,
all badly burned, who were brought to
the surface. Other rescue parties were
'quickly organized, and entered the
i mine.
it was not known Just how many
[men were in the zone affected by the
explosion.
The mine has been operated for.
about ten years and the workings ex
tend fully two miles from the open-:
injr. ordinarily some four hundred!
millers are employed, the \cin u[ coal
QUIET AT VERDUN;
BITTER FIGHTING
ON ITALIAN FRONT
Even Notable Artillery Fire in
Vaux-Douauniont Region
Has Slackened
The infantry continues inactive lie
lore Verdun and even the notable ar
tillery (ire reported for some days in
the Yaux-DOuaumont region cast of
the Meusc has slackened.
The German guns have resumed a
[onctimicd on Paffc 12]
WAR BRINGS BIG
ORDERS TO MILL
AT YORK HAVEN
Europe's Shipments of Paper
to U. S. Cut Off; Causes
Hush Output Here
York llaven, F'n.. March 28.—Short
age of certain kinds of paper in all
parts of the United States is begin
ning to result seriously but as long
as wrapping paper can be used th?re
will be practically an endless supply
coming from the mills of the York
Haven Paper Company here. G. C.
Emigb, superintendent and general
manager of the big plant, in an inter
view stated that because of the in
ability of many mills to get thd raw
[Continued on Page 3.]
II being known as Pocoliontas No. 3. No
i explosion ever occurred there before
and open lights generally were used j
.| by the men. Volunteers hurried front!
i; other mines in the neighborhood.
A hurried canvass of the town j
I showed that about 100 miners were
missing, and at the mine it was said
they were probably trapped behind I
; masses of coal and slate blown down
by the explosion, as the section where!
they were employed was not thought!
to be directly affected. The afterdamp
was said to be heavy, and constituted a
j danger from which they might not I
j escape.
Hundreds of persons assembled tit j
the mine, am on g them many skilled:
; miners who were toiled off in working j
squads In order that the rescue work'
wight not be slopped lor a uiowcut.
MASKED MAN GAGS
AND BINDS GIRL;
THEN FIRES ROOM
Outrage in Which Two Lose
Lives Follows While Slave
Investigation
HOBBLES TO SAFETY
Midnight Prowler at Cleveland
Successful in Second Attempt
tc Burn Building
By Associated Press
Cleveland, Ohio, March 2S. Fire
which swept through an apartment
house in Prospect avenue early to-day, |
causing the deaths of two persons anil i
injuring more than a score of others, |
was of incendiary origin, according to j
police and detectives.
Police early to-day were holding
three men and one woman at head- j
quarters and had established a police
guard at the bedside of Bessie neimer i
at Huron Uoad Hospital.
All of the live were involved in a
white slave investigation a few days
ago. following which one woman was
sent to the workhouse. In this case
the tleimer girt was the alleged victim.
Most of these injured were hurt by
jumping from the third floor windows.
Of these, three. Mrs. Albert Melchoir,
Dwight Eniptage and an unidentified
man are fatally' injured. Fireman
Ross and Ijieut. Thomas Nestor were
also injured so badly in attempting to
rescue occupants of the building that
they may die. Both fell from third
floor windows.
The apartment contained 25 suites
and more than a hundred persons
were in the building at the time the
fire started.
Masked Man Filters Room
Fir© started in the building on
Monday morning in a closet in Miss
Reimer's room anil she was rescued
l>v firemen and taken to a hospital.
The fire was easily distinguished, but
Miss Keimer was nearly suffocated.
She revived in the hospital, however,
and last night returned to her room.
According to the story she told police
this morning, a masked man entered
her room shortly after 1.30 this morn
ing, gagged her and hound her hands
and feet, after which he started a tire
in the room with papers.
Se<-on<l Attempt
She managed to get to her feet and
hobbled out of the room, but not be
t'or the fire had spread and other oc
cupants of the building had become
[Continued on Page 7.]
WINDOW BOXES
FOR HARRISBURG
ARE ENDORSED
O. P. Bccklcy, of Bcrryhill
Nursery Company, Offers
Hearty Co-operation
Announcement that ihe Telegraph
will inaugurate a windowbox cam
paign in Ifarrisburg during the com
ing year has met with hearty coni
mendltion in many quarters.
_.. p. P. Beckley, president of the
Bcrryhill Nursery Company, and one
of the most enthusiastic gardeners in
the State, heartily endorses the plan
in a letter addressed to the editor of
this newspaper and received to-day.
Xot only that, but Mr. Reck ley in pri
vate conversation assured the Tele
graph that his company will go much
farther than mere co-operation. In
deed. Mr. Beck ley intimated that he
would presently suggest a plan where
by the installation of windowboxes
might be made on a scale that would
[Continued on Page 2j
Contractor to Start
Survey Work at Once
on State Fair Grounds
W. J. Randall, of the contracting
firm of Bennett and Randall, which
has the contract for excavation and
grading at the Keystone State Fair
and Industrial Exposition Grounds
west of Middletown. arrived in this
city to-day with six civil engineers
from Greensburg, Pa.
Immediate work will begin on the
preliminary surveys and within a few
days excavation will start. Four
big steam shovels belonging to the
contracting firm are now in the En
ola yards.
The contrac tor will employ between
four hundred and five hundred men,
and thirty-two horse teams in the
work in addition to the steam shovels.
John L. L. Kuhn Gets
Contract For Pennsy
Station Excavations
The contract for the excavations and
foundation work for the new freight
station of the Pennsylvania Railroad
in South Ilarrisburg was to-day
awarded to John 1,. 1.,. Kuhn & Co.,
contractors, of ilarrisburg, with offices
|at •16-48 North Cameron street. It is
| understood the work will start at once.
; The estimated cost is not given, but
it is said to be between $50,000 and
i $75,000.
The work will be under the direction
I of George U Titzel, of Lancaster. a
J member of the firm, who has for a
number of years been identified with
i large railroad contracts. In addition
j to the necessary excavations, the work
I will require extensive masonry and
| concrete work. The latter will include
large foundations for steel pillars.
The new freight station building
will be four stories in height and will
I lie of brick /and concrete. Plans for
! the new structure are still under epn
! sideration because of n number of
changes in interior details made a
Lsiioi t time ago, _ J
PURSUIT OF VILLA MAY BE
HALTED IF RAILROADS ARE
NOTSOONMADEAVAILABLE
Bandit Fleeing Southward Is Meeting With Little Opposi
tion; American Troops Experiencing Greater Hard
ships as They Get Farther From Their Base; Impera
tive That Mexican Lines are Turned Over
Tension Along Border Increases With Reported Raid on
Ranch of Former Mayor of El Paso; Troops and
Texas Rangers Fail to Find Traces of Bandits; Car
ranza Forces Dissatisfied
. EI T aso, Tex., March 28. I lie pursuit of Francisco Villa may
be hampered if not actually halted, unless Mexican railroads arc
made available as the main iine of communication for the American
army in Mexico.
Military men expressed that view to-day after studying dis
patches Irom the front that \ ilia was still in full flight southward
and meeting with lkilc if any opposition.
The American forces are more than j
200 miles below the border.
Every mile the Mexican bandit ad- '
vances into the Interior increases the
I
difficulties of maintaining the already
attenuated line of American coninuini
cation. Motor trucks arc 1m
to tjie army base at Columbus to heip
keep up the necessary movement of
supplies to the field headquarters at a
point near t'asas Grandes.
Every effort ts being mane to con
tinue the line of transport in full op
eration over the Rocky and sandy
trails until the de facto government
Rives permission to use the railroads.
Raid Is Reported
There was a very noticeable increase
in the tension along tVie border to-day
following llie reported raid last night
on the ranch of C. E. Kelley, fovuier
mayor of El Paso, by Mexican bandits.
The ranch is thirty-two miles east of
here and a mile and a half from the
border.
The alarm was given first by E. X.
Barker, foreman of the Kelley ranch.
Barker said he saw a number of
mounted Mexicans cross the river and
attempt to drive off one hundred head
of cattle belonging to Kelle.v. He ran
to a neighboring ranch house and
called his employer on the long dis
tance telephone here. In the mean
time three of the raiders went to tho
Kelley ranch house and threatened the
■«*!/>■— .i<Mm Y ■■ ifl
T I GO AEHOTT CtDMESTIKRET' w " S
C® Reading, Pa:, March 26. The Reading Eagle this *
f "K. j. Stackhouse, is made superintend- 1
9 '■ ind supplies of the Reading Railway at T
1 siding to take the place of James K. Witman, deceased; f
s M Lot*, superintendent of the Harrisburg d'- f
1 sion,) taking the place of Mr. Stackhouse. Mr. Abott was j
1 recent inted superintendent of Shamokin division, 4
J succeeding J. E. Turk, made general superintendent. F. j. f
1 Hagner, trainmaster at Allentown, is appointed superintend- 3
ent. of the Shamokin division.
I FIREMEN CALLED BY FALSE ALARMS (
* Fire companies in the central part of the city were call- '
1 ed out shortly before 4 o'clock this morning to answer two '
9 false alarms. 1
| GRANTS MOTION TO SQUASH INDICTMENTS I
4 Youngstown, March 28. Judge Anderson tq-day '
I anted th- motion to quash the indictments recently re- ;
I 'f inst five steel companies, charging them with '
i conspiracy to fix the price of labor and steel products. '
I 1
T COUNCIL APPROVES SCHEDULE
t Aside from approving the schedule of the city tax ex- |
* inerations for 1913 as submitted several weeks ago by the ,
f city treasurer, and approving some recent contract awards |
w City Council transacted litle business to-day.
' * City Cornmissoiner Lynch offered a new ordinance au
thorizing the construction of a 10-inch sewer in Briggs
1 ► reet from ifteenth to May. Bids approved included the 1
' following:
a J Construction of sewers in Herr's Lane and in Fulton * *
' street to Henry Opperman at his proposals respectively of
, > $587 and $407. ■
I Water department supplies as recommended for the '
t I year by City Commissioner Hary F. Bowman as follows: < J
' , Castiron water pipe and special castings, R. D. Wood >
t & Co.; brass ferrules, H. Mueller aMnufacturing Company; |
' * iron castins, W. O. Hickok Manufacturing Company; alu
minum sulphate and hypochloride of lime for filter plant,
y: Manufacuring Company.
11ARRIACE LICENSES «f
win, >1 l(l«l ii. nml Anim )ln,v Foils, Roy a Hob.
ami Stella A. Kndcrn, Caraonvllle. « »
CITY EDITION
14 PAGES
Mexican assistant rorenian with death
if he interfered with them.
Fail to Find Trace
Word was immedaitely sent to the
troops on patrol duty at Fabens, two
miles east of the ranch, and to Ysleta,
eight miles in another direction. Two
detachments of the Eighth Cavalrv,
accompanied by four Texas Hanger's,
were sent in pursuit of the raiders.
After three hours' search they re
turned to camp and Captain G. AY.
Moses reported to General Bell that;
nothing had been seen of the Mexican*
and that he believed the whole affair
to be a false alarm. Barker, however,
insisted on the truth of hip story.
The reported raid served to give a
freph start to the alarming reports
about the attitude of the Mexicans and
conditions in the Interior which have
kept residents here in a state border
ing on hysteria ever since the Ameri
can troops crossed the border. This
feoling had seemed to be dying away
for the last couple of days.
Railroad Problem Serious
Matters were not improved by the
news from Washington that General
Carranza had again deferred a decision
on the question ot permitting the use
of the Mexican railroads for the trans,
portation of supplies to the Amerk.ua
troops in the field
Army officers here admit freely tliat.i
the question of the use of the railroad*
|is becoming an increasingly seriouii
| one. General Pershing's columns iiava
[onctiniieil on Page 12]
