llttblk
' " I K 4 ! ! i ! t
I
TIIK I,EI)GKU ( an advertising .J.
J fiedlnm that brings resold. Onr !
rrtlrx nro consistent nlth tlrcn I
1- lutlnn. Hooks open (o Inspection. j
J f J J J - J
ty JOIoiiilf Tiicidny, light rntix,
J m'unrunj iitir. -r
.J. ,
j f j .j. j j j .j. .j j. j .j. j
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 1910.
(WJ5? COPY-ONE CENT.
iAiL r rvnuo LKjHir.tt-Htt
t t H 1 4 4 lt ! '1 t
A
to
.1
AGAIN I
Philadelphia, Mnrch 28. A daugh
tcr wns born to Mr. and Mrs. Frnncls
RowTs Snyro hero Suntlay. Pho Is the
Rrcoiltl granddaughter of President
Wilson nnd will ho named Eleanor Ax
son Snyro for Mrs. Snyro's mother. The
President wired his coiiRratulntlons.
Mr. J. M. Tweed, traveling aeont
for tho Adder Machine Compnny, Is
upending n few days with his wlfo at
the homo of her parents, Dr. nnd Mrs.
T. II. N. Smith of East Second street.
HENDRICKSON
Invites Your Inspection of a Complete
Line of
Accredited Spring Styles
In
Wall Paper Rugs
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Spring
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
dllli
FARMERS'.-
m
m
g Save Manure From
S Vour Live Stock
It In ux precious iin tho gulden frruln In your Mil. Kuriiicrn lu
the old countries recognize this nnd they not only sate ctcry pound
nnd apply It In xucli n nay thn lows ure reduced to the minimum,
but they gather leuf moulds sediments and mucks from Hwuiups
whlrli they ml it Hit immure n order to render (Item more valuable.
Manure deteriorates wry rap Idly uiiIchh properly cured for. Don't
leuie It carelessly In the yard, thereby letting dollars get uvvay from
you, hut come In TODAY and get u John Deere "lilp.iIgliM .Spreader,
the kind with the beater on the axle, and spread fertility and prosper-
S
1
J Ity broadcast.
I VOURS, FOR A BIG HARVEST
I MIKE BROWN
I "THE SQUARE
LOWEST PRICES OF THF YEAR
4 caui yood Corn only . 23 cent 4 cum best Lye Hominy only.25 cents
i nut best Puapkla only 25 centi 3 runt (food Tomatoes only... 33 ceaU
Tbca goods are worth more at wholesale cost. We do not want to carry
an over.
dammL k oowiad. nte 43.
Htumrlntntiilmit Sehnnffer and Ills
tnrr ef linti.la linVA lipnll llllflV HnVOm
dnyB laying water tnnlns over Houston
nvcnuo In Enst Maysvino. Jionuay
connection wns mod a with tho big Sec-
nml atrnnt tnnln nml nnw llin rpftldentn
of that benutlful llttlo residence street
will enjoy water service.
Appreciating tho valued patronage
of our many Juvonllo friends, wo arc
going to present every boy n first-class
bnt and bnll with his spring Bult. Sco
them In our west window.
I). IIECHINOKIt & CO.
GOODYEAR
ARROH.0W0
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rlm-CuU by the No-RIm-Cnt feature.
Slowouti by the "On-Air" cure.
L0010 Trcd by many rubber rivets.
Iniecuritr by 126 braided piano wire.
Puncture! and Skidding by the double
thick All-Weather tread.
FOR LIVING ROOM
LIBRARY OR DEN
a handsome mantel Is n distinct addi
tion to tho attractiveness of the room.
Wo show a variety of artistic mantel
designs all mill made and ready to put
up. They require no specific skill to
put up, any one enn do It. Come and
Fee how benutlful they are and how
moderately priced.
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone nnd Second Streets.
Phono S19.
A. A. McLaughlin. L. H. IJehan.
M
DEAL MAN"
CIRCUITCOURT
March Term llegnn Its (Jrlml Hominy
1 List of Hrnnd .furore For
This Term.
Tho Mnrch term of tho Mason Cir
cuit Court began Its Bosslonn Monday.
Judge C. D. Nowolt presiding.
Tho grnnd Jury is composed ot the
following well known gentlemen: H.
A. Carr. foreman: Joseph Davis, W.
It. Doyd, William Fitch, l'erry Mastln,
John J. Kaln. Clarcnco rhlllips, Jonn
Itoe, T. I. Hay, David Chlnn, Robert
Ilurgoyno nnd ucorgo Krcltz.
Tho petit Jury wns sworn Tuesday
morning.
Mr. W. S. llnrtcn, n member of the
Floyd county bar, was Introduced by
Attorney LoWrlght Drowning nnd was
admitted to practice nt tno Mnson
county bar.
Master Commissioner A. 0. Sulser
produced his financial report, which
was ordered filed, no nlso Hied ins re
norts on tho following enses: Wil
liam Drown vs. Sarah Drown, Chnrlcs
A. Anderson on petition, William J
Wilson's administrator vs. Freeman
Wilson. Martha N. Janvier on petition
J. D. Russell on petition, Joseph Ennls
on petition, Marie Lane vs. .Nat Lang'
horn, K. F. Ifcrndon vs. John Marshall,
N'entuno Fire Company vs. city of
Maysvlllc.
Tho mandate of the Court of Appeals
In tho caso of Davis, etc., vs. the city o'f
Maysville, was ordered read anil filed
In open court.
In tho enso of T. J. Hall, etc., vs. O.
W. McDanlel & Company, C. L. Wood,
trustee of 0. W. McDanlel & Company,
produced his petition, which was or
dered filed.
In tho caso of Joseph Leo vs. the
Datcs-rtogcrs Construction Company,
tho defendant produced a demurrer,
which was ordered filed.
In the case of L. M. Gasper vs. the
Datcs-Ilogers Construction Company,
tho defendnnt produced Its demurrer
to the petition and also Its petition
and bond for removal of the action to
the 1'nlted States District Court for
the Kastcrn District of Kentucky.
In tho second case of Joseph Lee vs.
tho Dates-Rogers Construction Com
pany, tho defendant produced Its pe
tition and bond for removal of tho ac
tion to the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Ken
tucky. In tho case of David Porter vs. T. A.
Coughlln, etc., the plaintiff produced
his exceptions to the reports of T. A.
Coughlln, executor of J. J. Coughlln,
deceased, which was ordered filed.
In the cases of Frank F. Carpenter
vs. the L. & N, railroad, and Mrs. Ina
Carpenter vs. the L. &. S. railroad, the
ueionuani prouuecu its nemurrcrs,
which woro ordered filed.
A Jury trial having been demanded
by tho parties named below, th fol
lowing cases nro set for trial:
Monday, April 3. Taylor vs. Muse,
Holton vs. Havens; Tuesday, April 4,
Duncan YSt city of Mayslick. Art Man
ufacturing Company vs. Collins, et al.;
Wednesday, April 5, Mullikin vs. Rob
inson, Zorncs vs. C. & O.; Thursday,
April G, Dauer & Kllpp vs. Collis, same
vs. Kcnnnn, Stevens vs. Cook's ad
ministrator; Friday, April 7, Warner
vs. Rest, Durgoyno vs. Drnud; Wed
nesday, April 12, Gilford vs. Daugher
ty; Thursday, April 13, Hendrickson's
administrator vs. Middleman; Friday,
April 14, Wood vs. Metropolitan Insur
ance Company, Piatt vs. C. & O., Petit
vs. C. & O.; Monday, April 17, Ridg
way's administrator vs. C. & O..
DwIghtHlnklc Company vs. Mathews
Mason Lumber Company vs. Raymond ;
Tuesday, April 18, Williams' admin
istrator vs. C. & O., Is'orrls vs. C. &
O.; Wednesday, April 19, Ekman vs.
Uateman; Thursday, April 20, Grimes
vs. C. & 0.. Morrison vs. C. & O.: Fri
day, April 21. Gates vs. C. & O.. Gill's
administrator vs. C. & O.; Monday.
April 24, Cincinnati Gas Transporta
tion Company vs. Newell, snmo vs.
Slack, Mackcy, Casoy and Dutcher,
Hrocks administrator vs. Gibson;
Thursday, April 27, Reed vs. Hord
Construction Company; Monday, May
1, American Flnnnco Company vs,
TIco, Mnysvlllo Ice Company vs,
Morleln Drowlng Company, Gasper vs.
Dates-Rogers, Leo vs. Dates-Rogers,
Carpenter vs. L. & N., same vs. same,
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEKTI.(i.
At an adjourned meeting of Council
Monday night tho agreement ordinance
between the city and tho Street Rail
way Company rogardlng tho removal
of Its tracks, etc., in East Second street
was adopted. A committeo was ap
pointed to seo about purchasing the
lot In tho rear of Mrs. Hunter's prop
erty, noW used ns n dumping ground,
with n view to filling It up.
CLASS PLAY COMING.
"Silas Mnrner," tho Senior class
play of the Maysvllio High School, is
being rehearsed each afternoon and
thoso who hnvo seen tho rehearsals
say that It will bo ouo of tho best
ever produced by a High School class.
Tho play will probably bo given tho
last of April or tho first of May.
DOMESTIC THOI'IILKS AIIJKD.
Monday afternoon In Squlro Fred W.
Rauor's court, John Clark and Mrs.
P. Drown wero fined $0.50 each for
breach of tho peace They wero nr-
rcstod by nonstable James McNamaru
when engaged In a frco-for-all scrap
In tho rear of tho broom fnctory on
East Third street.
TNKIIT OX VACATION.
"Unklo" Harry Robinson, the popu
lar manager of tho West Union Telo
graph Company In this elty. Is enjoy
ing a two wcoks' vacation. During his
abBouco tho business hero will bo
handled by Rellot Manager C. L.
Tucker of Nashville, Tcun.
MAIL 0HDEI1S PROMPTLY J;TlLEI).
For all grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices are right. Order
today. PoynU Bros., Covington, Ky
0. D. WuVojfc of VancoDuns was hero
Monday.
ELECTION. HELD.
Mnysvlllo Commnndory No. 10,
Knights Templar, met In tholr spn
olous hall Monday night nnd elected
officers for tho ensuing year as fol
lows: ,
Eminent Commnndor -J. W. Elgin.
Gcnornllsslmo W. H. Rccs.
Captain General R. A. Carr, Jr.
Senior Warden Q. L. Rasp.
Junior Warden W. F. Sproomborg.
Standard Hearer H. P. Purnoll.
Sword Dearer C. E. Dietrich.
Warder LoWrlght Drowning.
Sentinel J. D. Keith.
Third Guard C. L. Dnrtlett.
Second Guard W. I). Qualntanco.
First Guard J. C. Harwell.
Finance Committee Clarcnco Mnth
ows, E. L. Manchester nnd J. A. Dod
son. STRICKEN WITH PAUALTSIS.
A telephono mcssngo to rolatlves In
this city Monday night stnted that Mrs.
Marshall Crcekbaum of Ripley, had
boon stricken with paralysis at her
home that afternoon and that sho wns
In n serious condition. Sho is a sis
ter of Mrs. Lottie Sprocmberg of Com
merce, street, and her daughter, Mrs.
J. D. Orr, loft for Ripley Tuesday
morning.
Tho degree team of Wyandotte
Tribe I. O. R. M., hns been Invited In
confer the work at tho Institution of a
new tribe of Redmcn In Flomlngs
burg some time early next month. If
the Mnysvlllo Indians mnkn tho trip
they can bo depended upon to do the
Job In the best Btylo.
Mrs. Hnrtlerodo of Ravenna, O., Is
visiting her daughter, MIsr Ruth
Hartlerode, supervisor of music in tho
Mnysvlllo city schools.
BIG RIVER
The Ohio Rank Full nnd Rising At
All I'olnls Alxnc, With
More Itntn.
ThlugH are coming our way again,
ns the Dutchman said, when a plate
of hot soup fell off tho table into ills
lap, hut this is one thing w don't
want.
With the Ohio at this point at 7
o'clock Tuesday morning showing 40.4
on the gauge here and rising, things
don't look good to those who arc in
tho high water zone.
Wliile we do not want to bo classed
us an alarmist, yet it does look as if
there Is going to be a rlso sufficient to
closely rub if It docs not reach the
danger line hero of fifty feet, nnd if
this weather doesn't break up to some-!
thing better there Is no telling whero
it will go.
With all streams pouring big water
into tho main stream above and be
low, thcro is sure to bo n further rise
of several days yet.
Put don t rock the boat yet.
Reliability in Hunt's BLACK SILK
Not all Black Silks art reliable in weave or tly as many women liavi- found out to their loss after wearing inferior
weaves a short time. It is often actual economy to pay a trille more a yard and get Black Silks that wear well, than to
save the dift'erence and have only disappointment instead of service. Y(. call your special attention to tho following weaves-
Cashmire Oharmeuse, Pussy Willow Taffeta, Crepe de Chine, Gros des Londres. Crepe Meteor, Georgette Crepe. Japs,
Messaline, Taffeta, Charmeuse, Poplins, ranging in price from 50c to $2.25.
The Spring Suits
have been coming for days past. Hurrying out as quickly as they arrive- too, at which no woman will wonder when she
sees onr unusually large stock and tries on these very latest models. PRICES $15 TO $35.00.
"Incredibly Good For
The woman who said this knew every detail that makes a really GOOD crepe do chine blouse
She knew tho difference between good, stout silk and the flcazy kind.
She knew tho difference between the fino needlework and slipshod stitching.
Our prlco this week for buttcrfat.j
37 cents, Maysvlllc.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY,
You Surely Must Gome to Our
Thursday. Friday Saturday
Our Mr. Millard Mora writes us that he is going to send us some dresses from
"Millard's" that will create a sensation in Maysville.
Tho wife of the president of ono of tho largest railroads in this country is one of
"Millard's" largo customers, and she is the society leader of tho East.
There will bo somo excellent tailored hats from the House of Fisk.
Come and look and enjoy yourself. You aro under no obligation to buy.
f
I1ISII0P ANDERSON AT THIRD
STREET M. E. CHI'lldl
TONIGHT.
Tho occasion that has been looked
forward to for, weeks, tho address of
Bishop Anderson, will tnko placo to
night at tho Third Street M. E, church.
Tho sorvlco will begin nt 7:30 o'clock
nnd ovory ono Is cordially Invited. No
ndmlsslon will bo charged, A record
crowd should bo present to henr tho
great messago the bishop will give,
Tho largo choniB choir will sing two
anthems In nddltlon to thrco great
church hymns. Tho Epworth Adult
Dlble class will glvo n reception to the
bishop In tho Sunday school room Im
mediately nt tho closo of the address,
Remember tho hour of tho scrvlco nnd
como early In order to get good seats,
A LONG JOURNEY.
Dr. Charles W. McClanahan of West
Second street is in receipt of an In
teresting postcard from far-off Adrlan-
,ople, Turkey. It Is from Mr. Charles
.E. Allen, a graduate of the .Maysvlllc
I High School, the son of Mr. nnd MrB.
Druco Allen,, who removed from here
i to Florida. Mr. Allen Is nn nttacho at
tho united States embassy at Adrian
oplo and Is Interpreter to tho consul.
The card was mailed February 13,
consuming about six weeks In transit.
The Undies' Aid Society of tho Third
Street M. E. Church will meet Wednes
day afternoon nt 2:30 o'clock at the
church. Ladles with Easter offerings
nro expected to come to this meeting.
No refreshments will bo served.
THE HOME DF QUALITY DLDTHES
DRESS UP
You remember Shakespeare wrote. "Tho apparel oft proclaims tho man."
You know from expcrlenco this Is true. You can't Judge a man when you first meet him by his DRAINS
OR CHARACTER, because you can't size these up at a glance; but you do unconsciously Judgo him by tho
clothes he is wearing.
March 27th to April Sth has been decreed "DRESS UP" time all over tho country. This time has been
dedicated to now Spring ClothGd in fe;,B..;t!ci of thn new season.
Moro men each year grusp he significance of better dressing. Some through personal experience; somo
through experience of others. "Hcchlnger" clothes nro always "DRESS UP" Clothes because they nro fash
ioned by masters In design. Yflnr tasto in spring clothes mny bo conservative, or may favor the moro no
ticeable, moro radical models. Wo will show you both. You aro sure of being dressed In perfect stylo and
tasto when you make your selection from our new spring models. Wo offer you a wldo choice. As to
price you may suit your own Inclinations lu this matter. Suits $10 to $30.
ID. KEiOKCiasrO-EJK. &. CO.
Dlshop Anderson ot Cincinnati, Is
tho guest of Rev. and Mrs. J. M. Dlt-
oral of Wall street.
:03ST
I psL Seed Potatoes i
J Wc have Genuine Irish Cobblers, Long Red Rose,
Red River Ohios and Red Bliss Triumph. All first a
class stock and the price is right. Seeusbcforcbuying.
5 Dinger Bras.,
Old lints cleaned, dyed and re
blocked. Panama hats n specialty.
MISS S. SIIEPARD.
WE HAVE
a fresh stock of all rubber necessaries. No old stock.
See our line of Hot Water Bottles, Fountain
Syringes, etc
M. F.WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
"AT THE CORNER"
All tho latest patterns In wallpaper
at CRANE & SHAFER'S.
Our new Spring wallpapers are
ready for your Inspection. Conio in.
CRANE & SHAFER.
ID 7 UT. Second St.
Phnne 2D.
Mrs, David II. Harrison of Com
merco street, left Monday for n visit
to relatives In Ohio.
James Campbell of Georgetown,
, was a Maysvllio visitor Monday.
Miss Elizabeth Andrews ot Flem
I n Ks burg, passed through this city
Monday on her way to Cincinnati.
Opening
$2.50" I jj
0 '' ''H
-.hl ,1 m
