MJMJBMayMjWMaaBBMMMH5BB5SS!!!!S miiTitPtwiBwiWiffiwiSSBBS
Journal !' "sHH
HB bbbbbbbbbbbbb!
I FR SeM8oITDANYTH'NQ WHICH TI fr ".""' frIVt'tt NEED. WHY NOT TURN IT INTO
K ' - ...-. ,,, , . . i i
H EIGHT PA0E3 LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH TUESDAY MARCH 28 1916 FOURTEENTH YEAR ' aH
I MIKE YOKEL
I COMING HERE
I NEXTMONDAY
H Agrees to Throw David Jones Twice
Within Ninety
H Minutes
H Mlko Yokel wilt bo In Logan next
H Monday evening and will put on a
H wrestling exhibition between himself
H and Dave Jones of tho Agricultural
H College. Yokel agrees to throw
H Jones twice In ninety minutes and
H there are a good many wrestling fans
H In Logan who think Yokel will bo
H unable to throw Jones at all.
H Mr. Jones has had a number of
H hard matches In tho past and lias
H bad a very successful career so fnr
H as a wrestler. His friends havo been
H trying for n long time to get a match
with Yokel, auj have now been sue-
H cessful, and on Monday night next at
H tho Auditorium It Is to be hoped that
H Jones will bo given the local support
H of all wrestling fans. There will bo
I n couplo of preliminaries, ana tho
I evening should furnish somo high
j class entertainment.
I ADVERTISED LETTERS
I Logan, March 2H, 191C.
Chrlstenscn, Mrs. Mary.
Hansen, Mr. Henry.
Jones, Mr. C. C.
Jensen, Mr. Wm.
I McDurn, W. J.
Smith, Mr. W. B.
I Smith Erlckson & Condlo.-
I Wilson, Miss Phyllis .
J. M. BLAlIt, Postmaster.
REPORT
I Made to tho Dank Commissioner of
I the State of Utah, of tho condition
of tho
I FARMERS & MERCHANTS
8AVING8 BANK
Located at Logan, In tho County of
W Cache, State of Utah, at tho close of
fratJP business on tho 20th day of March,
M 1916:
H Resources
Loans and Discounts ...4211,313.03
Stocks and Warrants .... 1,726. CI
I Furniture and Fixtures .. C.582.71
Duo from National Banks 37,823.41
Due from Stato Banks and
I Bankers . 8,078.83
Checks and Cash Items... 2,206.09
Gold Coin 685.00
Silver Coin 1,102.95
Currency 3,190.00
Expcnso account 1,280.12
Interest and taxes paid.. 227. Hi)
Total 1274,216.89
Liabilities
Capital stock paid In $ 60,000.00
Surplus fund 6,000.00
Undivided profits, Interest,
exchanges, etc 3,492.01
Duo to state banks and
bankers ....'. 10,879.11
Individual deposits 108,928.26
Certified checks 1,936.10
Cashless checks 3,483.81
Savings t deposits 54,294.06
Tlmo certificates of de
posit 25,203.54
Total f271.216. 89
Stato of Utah,
County of Cache,
O. W. Adams, being first duly
Mvorn nccordlng to law, deposes and
says that ho Is Cashier of tho nbovo
named bank; that tho abovo and foro
I going roport contnlns a full, truo and
correct statement of tho condition of
tho said bank at tho closo of busi
ness on tho 20th day of March, 1010.
O. W. ADAMS,
Subscribed and aworn to boforo
I mo this 24th day of March, 1916.
L. D. NAISBETT,
Notary Public.
My commission expires the Gth day
of March, 1920.
Correct Attest:
GEO. MICKELSEN,
SM J- Kl WILSON JR.
W J. A. HENDRICKSON,
Directors.
SEAL.
Stato of Utah,
Olfico of Bank Commissioner.
I, C. A. Glazier, Bank Commis
sioner of tho Stato of Utah, do hero
by certify that tho foregoing Is a full
truo and correct copy of tho state
ment of tho above named company,
tiled In my offlco this ,25th day of
March, 1916.
C. A. OLAZIER,
Bank Commissioner,
DEATH CALLS
R. T, MERRILL
OF SMITHFIELD
It. T. Merrill Sr., of Smithfleld, fa
thcr of Dr. It. T. Morrill, died yes
terday morning t 3 o'clock.
" Mr. Merrill was ono of tho early
pioneers of this valley, having lived'
hero for flfty-two years. Ho was 68
years of ago at tho tlmo of his death
and Is survived by two brothers, ono
sister, his wife, ono son and four
daughters.
Funeral services will be held on
Wednesday nt 2 p. m. nt tho First
ward meeting houso at Smithfleld.,
Agricultural
College News
'
For tho first tlmo In four years tho
Utah Demonstration train, operated
under tho supervision of the Exten
sion Divisions of tho Utah and Nova
da Agricultural Colleges, will have a
car devoted to homo economics exhi
bits. Of tho two stato train which
will leave Salt Lako April 7th, ono
car of tho thirteen will contnln noth
ing but home economics exhibits.
It will contain the following features:
sanitary milk, prepared 'by Ben II.
Eldrldge; civic sanitation by Dr. 11
G. Titus; child's clothes prepared by
Mrs. J. H. Llnford and Mrs. F. s. Rey
nolds; child nutrition by Prof. Agnes
Saunders of tho college; small uten
sils and labor saving dovlcos outlined
by Miss McCheyne; homo decorations
by Prof. J. S. Powell. Lectures will
bo given all along tho road accom
panying tho train, by Miss Kylt, Miss
McCheyne, Prof. Powell and Mr. Eld
rldge all of tho Utnh Agricultural
College Extension Division Stnff.
Two more of1 tho college graduates
for this year havo succeeded In locat
good positions for the coming year.
Both of these aro in tho school of
Homo Economics. Mlrl Anderson of
Brigham City has been engaged to
teach in tho Oneida Stako Acndomy
at Preston and Miss Gladys Christen
sen of Logan will accept a position
as teacher of Home Economics in the
South Cacho High School.
Tho Agronomy department of tho
Agricultural Collego announces that
It has been breeding a new variety
of potatoes for the past soven years
and now has ready for distribution
tho seed of this new and hardy var
iety called the Utah Number One.
Seed may bo secured from the de
partment for 2c per pound provided
tho buyer agrees to plant it rather
than use It for tablo purposes. Tho
purchase Is also limited to ono hund-1
red pounds.
A special alumni Issue of Student
Life was Issued last week by the
faculty of tho Agricultural College.
Tho Issuo contains news of practical,
ly all of tho alumni members and will
bo mailed to the 644 members of tho
association. Ono of tho chief fea
tures of tho Ishuo is an Interesting
and personal account of tho collego
day's of President elect E., G. Petor
son by M. D. Farroll '07 who Is now
working in tho Bureau of Plant In
dustry at Washington, D. C.
Over 200 peoplo are now registered
In tho GD reading courses offered by
tho correspondence department nt
tho Agricultural Collego. Tho courses
nro entirely In tho lines of Agricul
ture and Homo Economics; they do
not carry credit values but nro simply
read by thoso who aro interested In
tho subjects and read them for in
formation. Any ono Interested In
these courses should send for circu
lar number 7 Issued In February of
this year by tho Correspondence De
partment of tho Collego.
Wanted to Die Amonu Dooks.
Robort Boggs, keeper of To Oldo
Franklin book shop in Brooklyn, when
found near death from ago and star
vation, rocently, ploaded to bo let
alono. "Don't tnko mo to tho hospi
tal," ho said; "I'm too old. I don't
want to causo troublo to anyone 1
want to dlo qulotly among my books."
In his shop, nailed against ono of the
bookcasos was a small sign on black
tin, reading, "Wo refer nil needy casos
to tho Brooklyn charity bureau."
Judgo Call will hold court hero on
Thursday of this week. Ho will tako
up tho Christian Jensen caso at that
tlmo.
PATRIOTISM 1
s- , )
Patriotism, like other homely virtues begins at home. It is only given
to tho few to serve in high places. But all Cf ua have the opportunity
to serve at home. Loyalty to tho' home town is tho test of real patri
otism. When we fall to support homo trade and homo Industries we fall
In our loyalty to our country and to ourselves. Great nro tho towards of
homo town patriotism. Great nro tho results. It brings prosperity to ua
and ours, employment for all, activity In business and progress In every
direction. With "Our Town First," hs our slogan the future la secure.
And right hero let us caution our home people about the expenditure
of tho Home Dollar during the next few days. General Conference Is
waking Its bid for tho saints to assemble In Salt Lako City during the
first week In April. Don't forget that you can get Just as good bargains
at homo as )'ou can In Salt Lake City. Our clothing, both ladles and
gents ; our furniture houses, dr hardware concerns, all carry a staple
line of commodities that can be sold nt Just as attractive prices as cun
be procured elsewhere.
Bear Citizen, mnko it your business to lie fully togged out In clothing
which you purchased at homo on thoo ccaslou of your visit to Salt LnKe
City next week.
SHERIFFS AFTER
TRAJNMBBEfi
Salt Lako, March 27. Led by n
sad-eyed blood hound n posse of sher
iffs and their deputies, railway spe
cial agents, detectives and policemen
followed for many hours yesterday
the trnll of the lone bandit, who held
up tho O. S. L. train No. 1 ear
ly yesterday morning. Tracks led
through orchards and plowed fields
and into marshes and over ditches In
Weber and Davis counties In tho gen
eral direction of Salt Lake. Late in
tho afternoon tho scent becamo ex
tinct nfter It had been followed fo
moro than ten miles In which there
was much backtracking and tho posso
entered into n conferenco at which nf
tempts further to trail the bandit
were abandoned.
General Supt. W. A. Whitney of
tho Oregon Short Line announced
that tho railway company would pay
$1000 rownid for tho arrest or Infor
mation leading to the nrrest qf tho
bandit. Posters giving announcement
of this reward wero printed yester
day. Two postofllco inspectors, M. M.
Warren of Ogden and C. M. Chris
tiansen of Salt Lako wero working on
tho caso all day. They say they havo
not learned the value of tho thirty
one registered packages carried away.
"PUDD'NHEAD WILSON
AT THE LYRIC THEATER ON
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
The two pistols used In the duel
ling scone of the photodramatlc ver
sion of Mark Twain's famous story
"Pudd'nhead .Wilson," which will be
at tho Lyric theater on Friday and
Saturday next, with Theodore Rob
orts in the title rolo, aro part of the
collection of Mr. Wilfred Buckland
Art Director of the Lasky Company. ,
Mr. Buckland Is known as the
greatest collector and authority on
ancient lire arms in tho country and
his collection Is said to be one of the
most complete In tho world, not bar
ring that of tho British Museum.
By careful attention, Mr. Buckland
has kept his collection In n wonder
ful stato of preservation and tho pis
tols, when tested, wero as nccurato
and hard shooting aB when thoy left
tho French gunsmith. Tho pistols
aro kopt In a black ebony case and
with tho necessary powder flasks,
ram roads, wadding cases, etc., com
prlso qulto an equipment.
SHORTAGE OF
PAPERJATERIAL
Save ' Your Waste Paper and Rays
and Dispose of Them to the
, Junk Dealers
J. M. Blair, postmaster for Logan,
has Just received a bulletin from tho
U. S. Department of Commerce,
calling Attention to tho great short
age of paper in tho United States,
and asks tho public attention to tho
matter of saving old rags and papr.
This material cun bo turned over
to tho Junk dealers nnd they in turn
can hnve It turned over to tho pnper
manufacturers and thus considerable
saving can bo had and a diminishing
drain of tho Eource of supply of new
material for making paper can bo
made. This shortage of paper Is bo
coming serious I" the United States
Tho conditions nro serious Tho pub
He should not ntlss an opportunity
to save up old rags and papor
. HowJ;o Save Waste
Such as cotton and woolen rags, old
papers Including magazines, neww.
wrapping and cardboard:
1. Keep waste material clean and
dry.
2. Separate rags from old papers.
3. Separato cotton and woolen rags.
4. Separato magazines from other
papers.
5. Tio In bundles for convenience
In handling or put In bags.
6. Call In the nearest dealer In
Junk and rags. .
Mr. Hep's 8ylng.
"I ain't never ben ablo to see nuth
in' so complicated, as thoy call It,
'bout lite," observed Mrs. Jonathan
Hep, as she stopped In tho midst, of
work to rest, "for et you plays enuff
to keep frum workln' all th' time
and works enuff to keep frum playln'
all th' time, and acks durin' th' day
sose you ain't 'shamed of yerself at
night that's all thoy is to it." Pitts
burgh Dispatch.
8awed-Off Sermon.
Tho great troublo with some peoplo
is they InBlst on conversing about
things with which they aro not con
versant. lndlanapollsStar.
A number of tho farmers of Clark
ston camo over yesterday and spent
part of tho day with Assessor Wood
ward, going over tho books In un
"ndeavor to convince him that ho
had over assessed somo of tho farm
land In tholr locality.
NEW $35,000
UNION KNITTING
MILLSBIIiLDING
Tho Union Knitting Mills haa
awarded tho contract for Us new J33,
000 factory building to tho Utah
Idaho Building Company of this city.
Bids wero opened on Friday night,
and as tho nbove company were the
low bidders tho contract was award
ed with tho understanding that tho
building will bo completed within
ono hundred and fifteen days. There
was pretty keen competition, sovernl
other contractors entering bids and
all tho bids were very closo togethor.
This "ow building Is to bo located
on the northwest vacant corner of
First West and Center street and will
be built Hush with tho property line
and Is to bo a factory 75 feet by 90
feet. It will bo tho only day light
factory of tho kind In Utah. Its
conduction will bo largo cement pll
lara with largo panes of glass set In
a walls of tho building between the
pillars. It will bo fireproof nnd sanl
tary throughout. Tho plans call for
tho building to ho equipped with n
I ladles room which will bo equipped
with shower baths with n gjmnnslum
and In the basement there will bo
a gent's gjiunaslum.
The building wlli bo two stories
in addition to the basement. Tho
contracting company expects to com
menco work within tho next fow
days.
Manager Skldmoro was In Salt
Lnko over Saturday nnd Sunday pur
chasing plumbing equipment for Urn
new building.
U. S. CAVALRY ARE IN HOT
PURSUIT AFTER VILLA
San Antonio, March 26. Francisco
Villa has escaped lrom vicinity of
the Mexican troops that had checked
lilm. Jiear Nnmlqulpa, nn,d .-ithrec col
minis of American cnvalry aro pursu
ing him.
Tho American tioops aro almost
250 miles south of tho border. This
Information was contained In a de
tailed report by General Pershing
that reached general Funston hero
today.
General Funston forwarded tho re
port to Washington without making,
public any but the essential facts.
Colonel Dodd Is commanding the
ndvaucod columns that aro riding
hard nfter Villa and his men, and'
General Pershing has divided his for
ces so as to provide supporting col
umns along tho thinly stretched lino
of communication from his most ad
vanced baso at El Vallo. From El
Vallo another lino Is being maintain
ed back to Cnsas Grandcs from where
communication with the border is
mitintalned.
General Pershing himself Is some
where south of Cases Grandcs direct
ing tho work of holding together his
forces and directing so far as possi
ble tho operations of Colonel Dodd,
Cavalry Is being used along the lines
communicating with El Vallo whore
a detachment of Infantry is stationed.
Catherlno Archibald and sovoral
others havo sued Daniel S., and his
wife Sarah Archibald In tho district
court, to qulot tltlo to forty acres of
land In Clarkston.
t
MWWIIIIillWJsHiMliBslmBWBwtBMHHIWslliy's
&BBBBBBBBB9SBBBBBBB&BBBS&lBBBlaBBSSBBBBB3iUUjuy&B3&Bar "BBJBLBBBBBBBBBBBf1
flilllHLIIIIHiHflHMIsiLKIHHHNNaBw mSm fmsMM&BSvl
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBIllHnlMff 'IMKIVHkBnMHh UtfR-J I WWBUHhM' I
4HlBnPVFH2SBSBBBQSBBBBBBSBBBBBPjtHBBu!BlVSB9j2fl BaTi ttBBBBBBMMfBBBBiTfjl
'PHDBBlBBBkAVBBBBBBBBTflBBBWBlBBBBBBBBBBBtir-BBBHBlBftf'r 'K5par9BS3Vfaii!VfBVK tfCSBBBBBTrSBBBBCTawF
LjBBBaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBi BBBs7SBBHBBBBBBBBW BBBBBBBi'V 1 FSBVVISrBBBBBff BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBiK' 2&
i-yHBcsMKMK pLIMLwSil JCTPia3JBaafaW7sft-aBBBBBBBC i
sMilcfiilllHtHMBBi X l9Kwl V 'taHUKdillHLsHb
UBBTCeCBafHttalLlE !!T?& -iAa-jMBWPBBaMsWAiJii'. tw fifea
The nbove cut Is a picture of the Logan Military Band The Band Is giving a big danco
tn tho Auditorium tomorrow night. Every loyal cltl. en of Logan should bo out to the
danco nnd thus encourage the Baud. Tho Band Is ar tanging to play the very latest mu
sic for the (landers.
-
LION GOAL CO. , I
ESTABLISHES A I I
- NEW COAL YARD 1 I
N. R. Erlckson Is In Charge of the
Line of Yards In Cache H
Valley M
Tho Lion Coal Company, ono of the '-H
largest operators In tho Hock Springs 'H
District, has boon establishing re- H
tall coal yards throughout southern H
Idaho,, and after a thorough invcstl , H
gatlon of tho torritory In Cacho Val- J H
HHHil ' 1
BBBBBBteWiBBBBBBBYIlVtBBBBBBBBBBl ' BBBBBb!
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbH SI
N. R. ERICKSON ifl
Mnnagor of tho now Lion Coal Coin Iibbb!
pnny on South Main Street, with of- 91
flees in tho Intorurban freight depot. V vtaai
ley, thoy decided that It would bo of M
great advantngo to tho Lion Coal JIbbbb!
Company to liavo letail yards In this Haass!
section j 3bbbh
Ltko many other lnrgo producers JbbbbbI
of various commodities. They have Ibb!
found that It 1b of great advnntago rataa!
to opcrato these retail yards so that JeLb!
they may be In intimate and direct4' '"MM
touch with tho consuming public. ' ' 4BI
Thoy feel, In fact, in this way, they VWlfl
nro ablo to supply tho community TaVal
with tho best coal for domestic and 'H M
steam uso. During tho past four or )3m
five years a largo number of mines S S
havo been opened up In various dls- S H
trlcts In tho west, nnd a largo H
amount of Inferior coal has been vfl
, shlppod on tho market. Tho dealer H bbb!
Is not always ablo to determine what vim aaa
Ib the best coal for him to buy nnd M
in many casos he has purchased coal's .' fl
of Inferior quality and preparation, ' H
and ho must necessarily dlsposo of V H
these to tho public. jS H
Tho Lion Coal Company has In- J W
stalled yards at Preston, Richmond, fl H
Smithfleld, Logan, Wcllsvlllo, Hyrum ' S
and Brigham City. In theso towns i H
tliov havo constructed largo, well ill H
built coal sheds, Installed the best ' 9 H
scales that could bo purchased on (I&9 1
tho market, and havo placed local 1bB"V
men in charge of their yards and are iiflBfl
behind theso retail yards and are a'' IK jH
now equipped with all tho facilities W B
for conducting an up to date coal ' "
business. Owing to tho fact that tho !
large mines in Rock Springs aro he- toSsI
hind theso retail coal yards, thoy kll
aro ablo to deliver to tho public ?!
fresh, well proparcd coal, of best Wm 9
quality, a coal that will glvo the -$
consuming public and the housowlfo, .IpIf'B
cntlro satisfaction, and mako tho ?!
winter daya n pleasuro Instead of a 'kbH
drudfcury. It is a welt known fact ' 1
that a largo number of tho coals now 1 fl
being offered to tho consuming pun- "?9H
He run high In nsh nnd whllo burn- itfl'fl
ing throw off n lnrgo nmont of black Mlfl
greasy soot, that in a short tlmo ilia- 'fM
figures tho walls In tho house, .soils ifllfl
tho curtnlns and tho tappntry, an-1 1 iJIH
cnuses tho housowlfo an unlimited ?sbH
amount of troublo and worry. tTho i 4'H
'coal bolng offered to tho public thru j '- M
theso retnll yards Is of the highest'. -911
quality, makes no soot whllo burn- '9'
Ing, nnd Is clean to linndlo. It Is I
claimed thnt theso coals con bo.bunj- ; :MiM
I od the entire winter without soiling 9 'I
the walls nnd tapestry In the home. i jM, I
After tho Lion Coal Company hadj ' (
decided to install tho retnll yard's In, I S'l
Cache Valloy, tho next question that j $ jl I
oroso before them was who shall w' t! S
solcct to put In chargo of Hiobo yards. S; I
They desired very much to tako one I, jHM I
of the men who had been with them V H I
for a number of years and ono who. B I
by his past work would bo ablo to' H I
mnko a success of tho yards. After , jB I
considering tho men connected with !,' S I
tho Company thoy decided finally to i.BI
entrust this task to Mr. N. R, Er- ( ttfil&fl
Ickson who had been with 'Oo comv JtHflfl
i (Continued on Page Eight) &
y WWfm
ill
;l-A 'avtSflajfjgpajaBaagMgBjajajygBy
