THE BRYAN DAILY EAGLE'-
AND PILOT
VOL. XXX. NO. 75.
BRYAN, TEXAS- TUESDAY. MARCH 28. 1916.
PRICE: $4.00 Per Yar
DIM PROSPECTS OF CAPTUPM
How Many Times do You Sea Cheese in Thit Ad?
Pimento Che8
Elkhorn LuncH C'hMse
lUtavIa CrEain Ch'so
NVuft liatEl l'hi'He
Empire SwIsS Cream CIipso
American ClioEso
(Keoeivel frv.ih Saturday MoruiiiK.)
HARDY NEWTON
PHONES 23 and 150
GLOOM
DC
LS
MBIT VIEWS SUBMA
RINE SITUATION Ml
. i
I
BORDER II CIRCLES
War Circles on the Border are Pessimistic Over;
Capturing Villa and Believe if He Is Not
Caught at Once I Ic will Get Away A Quick,
I lard Cavalry Drive is Being Arranged to try
to Get I Iim Need of Railroad Facilities is
Sorely Felt and Lansing is Dispatching a(
Note to Carranza Asking That J Ie Make Im-'
mediate Reply Giving His Consent or Rem-
Our Gresfrr3i?M$
p:ftf
I '
J ,JUm
EVERYTHING-- ;
Staple and Fancy
Frtth Vegetables ard
Frtih Country Prodatt
PHONE
54
Wt --irl tliW.'l ,T KT-'y
PHONE
78
i
t 'r j'.-i.r .rr.r .-i.n.r rr.r.i rj P
iiKin the arrival of tier. Oatet choir
practice will Win. and, inasmuch as
(lie I'M ul ladles and gentlemen who
will make, up lh choir am well ad
vanced In thia line, it la xh ted that
m wiL
L
ARRIVE SATURDAY
they will he ahle to furnish rausio'
c-il WMvliinrftnn S:lVS Mexican PeonleOuict Briro. Sinner wnn Him and Great fr" V(r) beginning that wilt he
ly Submitting to Search for Villa.
Choir From All the Churchet
Will Be Organized.
No Action Will Be Taken Until It is Shown the
Sussex and Englishman Were Sunk by Sub
marinesQuiet at Verdun Bitter Fight
ing Again on Austro-Italian Front.
3r Aaaraiitnl lrr J
Washington, March "V Alien tl..
cabinet met Unlay tin member r
fleeted a view- of llii submarine situ
atiiill an grave, hut It was Intlit iitcil liu
c. iil. il a. I Ion would lie taken by t li.
A nu-rii an government until It was
nhown concliixtvelr that the Sussex
ami KtiKltxhinaii were mink hy sulu.a
rlncs.
Death Lilt Not Great.
y Ao-ltr4 Pr 1
London. M.mh :.-Thn Itrltlsh
agents of the rmnpany which owned
the Sussex said today th casualty list
In nut expected to exceed fifty.
War Summary.
H A.'-lalrd IV..1
I fly Ao-(it rr 1
El Paao, Tes.. March ;8. There it
much pettlmitm in army circlet over
the prospect! of capturing Villa, and
it it felt that unlets he it cornered
within a week the bandit leader will
have outrun hit purtuert and it m.ny
be montht before the outlaw can be
ferreted from hia mountain hiding
placet.
It it tud here that unlett the Mex
QUAUTY
SERVICE
and Sanitation
APPEAL TO yOU
Cive US Your Grocery Busi
"h'ess. COOPER & COLE
Phones 32 and 386.
I.i.ml'in. March Keen the nota-1 lean Railroadt are made available tor
lili' urtlllcry uilinii in the Verdun d.s I the transportation of American tup
Mi t hni slac kdii I. while there were I plica the purtu.t will be hampered if
no Infantry operations last night ai ' net actually halted
all. Tl." Cci ;an statement today -a.vs ! There wat a noticeable increate in
th.-r.' Miinn heavy fighting at ; the border tention today, following a
Stcl.d. ln ri' tin- ltnil.li iii ir. . tli ! reported raid laat night on the ranch
i i 'tuaii tn ii. lie v.'HliT.lav. j of C. M. Kelley, former mayor of El
I'ar'K rt'i'ott a siir riM attack In Pato by Memcan banditt. The ranch
llif Jffin-h In l.orraliii'. tin- Ccrinaii; it thirty two milet eatt of here and it
Iri'in In' I ciiii: !.loii up. a milt and a half from the border.
IHttcr fUhlMiR in aiJalii transilrlnx According to reportt. teveral cattle
on the A ist i tan Italian front at Val j were ttolen and the ranch foreman
piciolo. Itonn- ri'i'ottn K.iy thi Italians beaten up.
vl toi Ions In tin- preliminaries, j A detachment of the Eighth Infantry
Vienna as tlw Hii-slan actluty In ! and Tenat Rangers from Fabent. Te..
Ctlaciu Is Klarkriiiiiar. ' were tent to the ranch. They search
r.nliMi ulri... ti raile.l '.'in lllaK
sanah. tho advuii.'eil Turkish l.aso
ed for three hours, but could not lo
cate the raid era.
Ilcv. (ieo. ('. ("ate, who. together
! with the ilifferniit pastors of the
iihnrcliw of llryan, will mak ovi-ry
effort for a mcccusful revival nu'et-
i . ...
Ine Iiiti, N'KliiiiIni; April 2. as tire-
a dt'iiilcd featur of the revival meet
ing.
FOUR ARE KILLED
Carrama Still Silent.
WuihitiKton, Manli :S - Stulp ! vlimsly announccil In tlieso rolumns
partmetit ad.e frutn all pnrts of Is expected to arrive hi llrvan next
.Mexico today hliowed evidence of a Saturday.
quiet BmicMetiie In the purMiit of. itv. l. K. Weaver, pastor of the
Villa hy the Anierl. ana. Neither the nrst llaptlst Cliunli hero, has had
stale nor the war department has re- the pleasure of being In a tneetlm:
reived any nies--aite rei;ardlnK the uo with Re fates, and he Is authority
of .Mexlian railroads. It Is IhoiiKlit for the statement that Retr. fates Is a
posslhle Secretary of State Ijinsins most impressive and fon-cful prearber.
may uw f arrun. In nlve his answer. ( well as a successful evangelist. He
I says that the people of llryan and tho
Make Drive for Villa. surrounding country may well rest as
lliy A'M-itr 1'n.i I 1 Hired that the coming evangelist will
r l. i.i iteail iuaners. iiv vv ireie-s u. irjMe n,,., ,hat ,., llP of ,,,.,.
t to evev one.
1 00
(By Aiwoclated I'rrM)
llleflelds. W. Va.. March Zi.Fow;t
ri al miners are dead utid 1'i are mist
lug, following an explosion Id the
King mine near here today. ' '
BIG FLOOD DA1C
E
' wMWWWWWMAWAAWAMWli
Columliiis. N. M . Mar. Ii I'V i Hulle
t;ni - Preparations for a 'iii k. thor
ouuhly prepared lavalry drive to get
Vllle are In progress today.
Will Urge Reply.
Illy AnsoelsUsi! Irws 1
Washiiu'ton. Viirih :.V A memo
raiulum pressliiK f arranza, for an Im
meillale reply on railroad permission
will he sent the first thief today.
-ijTj-lj-ijljTjtjj-t "'11"'
It is said Hint Rev. fates will hrluK
a very uMe choir leader with him an I
will very likely t,nng along hymn
hooks front l,i h many of the son:
will he seh-cted. In this connection
it Is of Interest ti) know that the sev
eral churches of the city are Interest
ing themselves In orgatiiiing a large
I VALLEY
By Auortatrd Prvu )
Columbus. Ohio. March JS. The
flood conditions In Central Northern
Ohio are still serious todny. and thou
sail.! of acres of tne lowlands are Id-
STEEL MAGNATES
ARE RELEASED
i
i
I . U. S. Making Inquiries. .
Illy AsiKK-laied Press 1 j
i Washington. Man h -;s --The I'nlted
States has Innulred of Ci-rmi-yl
'through Auilassador ileruid whether j
any of Its submarines torpedoed the' ib A.wsiued P'
! Sussex. The status of the coiiiihuiiI ! YoungstoW n. t Ihlo. Mar. h :s .-.lu.U-e
cation Is an in.piiry and has not ad Anderson today granted the motion to
ivanced ti the stage of a protest or Muash the Indictments recently re
! ,,.tlmi. 1 turni'd here against five steel com-
i panics, (barging them with fixing the
j No Warning Given. j price of labor and steel produ. ts. The
I .ndon. Mardi 2x.-Arthur Mac-1 Indh ttnenta ugalnst the Cuited States
! ketite of Savannah and Tom Kifer of Steel Corporation and K. II. Cary still
jlielaw are made affidavits to the j Mand. as no motion i made to
! American consul today that the llrlt quash these Indictments. The Indlct-
Ish steamer Mam hester. on wnicn ; meius iiuasnni eic una. n ... ...
they were passengers, was torpedoed I too Indefinite and uncertain and de
without warning. The sinking was re j prlvlng defendants of their constltu
H.rted last night. fl'.nal rights.
WILL SIDETRACK
i choir. pos!lily ronipcseil of 7,1 or 101 undated hy iinbunked creeks and rtr-
! members, and this choir will, under era and hundreds of famlllea are
j the direction of Rev. fates leader, homeless. Property damage la very
j furnish the Inspiring mush- fur the great, hut no lives are reKrtel lost
occasion. It Is said that immediately as yet.
TWO MEASURES
Congrett to Pottpone Action on Suf
frage and Prohibition Meaturt
Indefinitely.
"Ily Associated Press)
Washington. March :1V Hy 1'
0'chxk tonight a vote In the house Ju
diciary committee will he taken pen"
polling Indefinitely the consideration
of all the suffrage and prohibition pro
posals pending.
I
People who think and make a study of what is best for the health of the family real
izc the importance of good refrigeration. They have learned the difference between an
ice box and a refrigerator. An ice box may be shaped like a refrigerator; it may have the
appearance of one. To be a refrigerator:
. First, and most important is, the air circulation must be perfect.
Second: There must be proper insulation. These two things make a refrigerator.
Many other things of lesser importance enter into the construction of good refrigerators,
all of w hich tend to the ideal of those who seek the best.
If you are going to buy a refrigerator we want to show you the best line of real high
grade refrigerators we have ever shown.
Fa p&mi
o u
Wc Give Automobile Premium Checks w ith all Cash Sales.
CO,
enfraB Parage
Now Under New Management Call and See Us.
MR. RAYMON LEROY
of El Paso, has charge of our Mechanical Department,
ALL WORK GUARANTEED
We recharge batteries, vulcanize tires.
PREST'O'LITE SERVICE
Bring your car here and have the work done
right.
G. F. SING LET A R Prop. PHONE 595
II. J.'TUFFLY, Mgr.
GIVE
SANDERS BROS.
YOUR APRIL ACCOUNT
IT WILL BE APPRECIATED
Everything in fresh vegetables and Fruits, Staple and
Fancy Groceries.
Phones 512-104
yuvyjmnjTjumAnn ------- - -
FURNITURE!
FROM THE KITCHEN TO THE PARLOR
PRICES THAT WILL PLEASE
Inspect Our Stock
lnJ. T. JAMES, FURNITURE
