THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 11.
HAHKK, VKKMOXT, TtJKSDAY, MAHCII 28, 191G.
Pit ICE, OXK CENT.
i
1 s
4
r
1
ITALIANS WON
BACK POSITION
AND EVEN MORE
Retaliated Against the Aus
trian After Latter's Suc
cessful Drive on Val Pic
colo and Carried Their
Lines Further Toward the
Enemy-
"WS ALL OF CREW
WERE SAVED
BY U. S. TROOPS
Military Men at El Paso Point Out That
"Punuit Will Bo Hampered, If Not
Actually Halted, If Lines Are
Not Available.
Kl 1W, Tex., March 28. The pursuit
of Villa may be hampered, if not actually
hated, unless the Mexican railroads are
made available ns main line eommuniea
lion fur the American army in Mexico
Military men expressed tliat view to-day
after utmlying the dispatches from the
front,, where Villa still is in full flight
southward and meeting little, if any, op
position.
After Steamer Empress of
Midland Was De
stroyed
ONE DEFENDANT RELEASED.
ARE PRESSING CARRANZA
GERMAN ARTILLERY
SHELLING FRENCH
Vienna Declares That Rus
sian Offensive in Galicia
Has Slackened London
Tells of Important Smash
at the German Lines Near
St. Eloi
The infantry continues inactive before
Verdun and even the notable artillery
fire reported for some days in the Vaux
Dounumont region has slackened. The
Hermans have resumed heavy fire west
of the Mouse, however, shelling the
French lines south of Malancourt.
Bitter fighting is again taking place
along the AuBtro-Itnlian front. The
Austrian launched an attack on Val
Piccolo, taking a trench; but in counter-attacks
the Italians not only suc
ceeded in re-conquering the position but
took Austrian trenches elsewhere on the
front, according to a Rome report.
Vienna declares that Russian activity
in Galicia has slackened, the Russian
ving attempted no attack against tho
main army of General Pflanger during
the past week.
British airmen have made a success
ful raid on a Turkish advanced base at
Bir-El-Hassanah 100 miles east of the
Suez canal, according to Suez reports, the
aviators dropping 40 bombs and doing
extensive damage.
For Immediate Reply to Request for Use
of Railroads. (
Washington, I. C, Mlirch 28. State
department advices from all parts of
Mexico to-day gave renewed evidence of
ituct acquiescence in the pursuit ot ilia
by the American troops. Neither the
state nor the war doartmiiit received
any messages regarding the use of the
Mexican railroad nnd it is believed that
Carranza is withholding his answer until
an agreement is reached on the pending
protocol.
A memorandum, to Carranza, pressing
for an immediate reply to tue request tor
permission to use the railroads, was pre
pared to-day by the state department.
I he war department is proceeding
with the arrangements to buy additional
aeroplane for use on the border.
A dozen Indian chiefs from Arizona
are to be enlisted as guides ami scouts
for the American column in Mexico.
Major General Funs-ion asked for the
services of the warriors and Major Gen
eral Scott, chief of staff, to-day author
lzed their employment.
BRITISH SEAMEN
TAKEN TO HOLLAND
An Aggregate of 70,000 Ton
nage Sunk Since New
German Campaign
London, March 28. Figures on the
damage to shipping since the new Ger
man submarine campaign was inaugu
rated show that in less than fortnight
vessels with an aggregate tonnage of
70,(.MK) have been sunk, one-third of the
tonnage being neutral.
1 he sinking of the British steamship
Empress of Midland was reported to-
lay in a Reuter dispatch from Amster
dam. The steamship Cromer arrived last
night at a port in Holland with all the
crew of the Midland.
AIDED VILLA TO ESCAPE.
, BRITISJLATTACK w
FORGED WAY
INTO GERMANS
Took First and, Second Liije Trenches
Over a Distance of 600 Yards in the
S. Eloi Region, Says Official
London Dispatch.
London, March 28. The British and
Carranza Troops Did Not Try to Co-op
erate with Americans.
San Antonio, Tex., March 28. Francis
co Villa's escape from the. region about
.Nammuipa was preceded bv a smart de
feat administered by him to a part o
the Mexican do facto troops, and was un
opposed by other constitutionalist de
tachmonts, according to unofficial, but
credible reports, reaching here yester
day.
The cordon of Mexican troops that the
Mexican authorities announced would
be drawn across his path, gave way, ac
cording to these reports, indicating their
co-operation with ilia rather than wuh
American forces.
I mted Mates army ollicials here were
inclined to believe reports of inefficiency
and half-hearted co-operation and ves-
terday complicated the future problem
of the second phase operations just in
augurated by the commander of the
American punitive expedition. '
It was realized here that the early
capture of Villa would be little better
than an accident. The only hope for an
early ending of the chase, it is felt here,
is that Carranza a troops will check vil
la's flight or that Villa himself, after
joining one or more of his wandering
bands in southern Chihuahua or from
northern Durango, may decide to fight.
That Villa will be able to effect a junc
ture with a considerable force before he
;.. I,- .1,1 i - . j : :- J . .1
Germans have been fightmg fiercely in - siate healer, he
the region of St. Eloi, five miles north
west of Arras, and the British, through
the explosion of a big mine and by in
fantry charges, have captured or de
stroyed a considerable portion of the
German trenches.
The British infantry stormed and took
first and second line trenches along a
front of 600 yards, London officially an
nounces, and Berlin admits that German
trenches in this region were blown up to
an extent oi 100 yards, and that "casu
alties were caused among the company
occupying the position."
RUSSIAN VICTORIES
DECLARED DUE TO
PREPONDERANCE
Austrians Claim that Slav Success on the
Dneister Was Because Austrians
Were Outnumbered.
Berlin, by wireless, March 28. Only
outposts skirmishes have occurred in
Galicia during the last few days and the
probably.
General Funston probably will go to
El Paso, and perhaps to Columbus in
a few days for a brief stay.
The Empress of Midland sailed from
Xew York on January fi for Cardiff,
Wales, according to the latest reports
available.
Court Ordered Verdict for Charles Weeks
of St. Johnsbury.
Burlington, March 28. At the eoneln
siou of the1 plaintiff's testimony yester
day afternoon in the $10,000 damage
suit brought by Gardner B. Arnold of
this city against K. X. Somers et a I.,
for the alleged fraudulent sale to him
of the New York state rights of the
American News ending Marhina com
pany at M. Johnsliury, which is being
tried in county court, counsel for the
plaintiff rested their cane. V. A. Bill
iard, senior counsel for the plaintiff,
whose throat had healed sufficiently sine
Saturday to allow him to proceed with
the ease, moved for a discontinuance of
tho ease against Charles Weeks of St.
Johnsbury, who was named as one of
the co-defendants. The court directed
a verdict in favor of Mr. Weeks to be
entered bv the clerk. Mr. Weeks was
a member of the board of directors of
the American- News Vending Machine
company who "took office after the ac
tions of the company on which the al
leged fraud is based occurred. Counsel
for the defendants expert to rest their
case to-dav and it should reach the jury
either late Wednesday afternoon or
Thursday morning.
hntries of settled and discontinued
were made in the following eases: Mary
Laflame vs. John Higgins et al., eject
ment; John Forville vs. John Casey,)
replevin; John Casey vs. John rorville,
replevin; and the chancery rase of Thom
as Reeves et si., vs. William B. Cori-mer-
et al.
TRIED TO BURN
, GIRL IN BED
CLAIMS FALSE REPRESENTATION.
Suit of D. H. McDonald vs. Frederick
McNeil Is Started.
After Fred L. Iaird had been procured
aa counsel interest was somewhat abated
in the cane of I). H. McDonald vs. Fred
erick McNeil, both of 1'mirro Town, which
was commenced this forenoon in Wash
ington county court, which reconvene
after the regular two days' recess.
S. Ilollister Jackson notified the court
at the opening two weeks ago that
withdrew as counsel for the defendant
and at that time the defendant state
he would appear pro sc. The court room
was well filled tins forenoon by interest
ed spectators of the proceedings
The plaintiff seeks to recover r.:,.uo
: : ik. .l..f l a
X IVUiU KjXjLj V CjUAI'M U to January, 1014, faUel v and f raudulnnt
lv represented to the plaintiff that there
existed in the town of r.nneld, renohsco
county, Me., a piece of land of $3,000
value. I he plaintiff avers that tho do
fendant represented that the land eon
tained hundreds of white birch, hemlock
and pine trees and 25 building lots sit
uated on Cold Stream lake, Ihe repre
sentations of the defendant resulted in
the plaintiff investing nearly $2,000 in
the land. Suit is now ln-ing brought on
the ground that the timber is not worth
anywhere near what the defendant, ac
She' Escaped, but Two Oth
ers in the House Lost
Their Lives
A TANGLED STORY
Police Placed Four Under
Arrest and Put Guard
Over the Girl
PERSIAN PRINCE
FEARED LOST
ON THE SUSSEX
Prince Bahram Was Passenger On the
Cross-Channel Steamer When She
Wss Torn by Explosion.
Paris, March 28. Prince Bahram of
the reigning family of Persia, who was
a passenger ort the steamer Sussex, which
was disabled by an explosion on March
24, is still unaccounted for and it is be
lieved that he was lost.
U. S. INQUIRY
IS ALREADY
IN GERMANY
HOT BATTLE WITH THE BANDITS.
But Latter' Finally Drove Off a Number
of American Cattle.
El Paso. March 2R .The ranch of C. K.
Kellv, former mavor of El Paso, 32 marine commander, offer reparation and
Asks If Any of German Vessels Attacked
the Steamer Sussex It Is Not a
Protest or a Demand.
Washington, D. C, March 28. Secre
tary of State Lansing announced after
the cabinet meeting to-day that the
United States will inimediutely make in
quiry of the German government wheth
r any of its vessels torpedoed the steam
r Sussex. Members ot the cabinet said
the evidence in the possession of the
I'nited States is not conclusive enough
to warrant decisive action at this time,
It was learned later that the inquiry
alroadv had been made nnd was probably
now in Berlin. J h present statu of the"'
communication is simply an inquiry. Jt
lias not advanced to the stage of a pro
test or demand.
Washington, T). C, March 28. With
all evidence indicating that the British
channel steamer Sussex, carrying Ameri
can citizens, was the victim of a torpedo,
it wag stated authoritatively here yes
terday that if a German submarine made
the attack the imperial government
would disavow the act, punish the sub'
RESIGNS UNDER FIRE.
School Janitor . Accused of Hugging
School Girls.
Franklin, X. H, March 28. The board
of education met at Superintendent
Keith's office yesterday afternoon to hear
charges brought against Janitor Charles
M. Sanborn by Mrs. Florence (i. Clapp,
teacher in grade seven, whose discharge
followed her report to the board that
Sanborn wan hugging school girls.
At the opening of the meeting San
horn's resignation because of ill health
whs read, and Ir. G, W, Adams said that
inasmuch as the resignation had been
accepted, the purpose for which the meet
ing was called had been removed, to
which Mrs. Clapp and'her counsel, Judge
Woodbury, assented. The meeting then
adjourned.
Many mothers who crowded the hall
outside the office congratulated Mrs
Clnpp a-a she left. Sanborn, who was out
on the street Saturday, was not present
yesterday.
The board will give Mrs. Clapp a hear
ing in regard to her dismissal later,
Judge Woodbury said yesterday he had
sworn statement from two 16-year-old
high school girls and two grade eight
girls, l. and 18, that Sanborn had hugged
them against their will.
Cleveland, March 28. Two persona, it
is known, were burned to death to-day cording to the allegations, represented
when flames sweDt through an apart- and there are but few lots. John
lf J . 1 1 i
n,.r,t fc,.,,.., ,!.!.., rl K w.m. uoraon represents me piainiin.
' I Tli fnllnu'inrr inrv iu Viunriiitr tlio rafts
iiy-nve ismiues. jjessie neimer, a wan- ..v rr TO,,,-,, vr n iir.ir, t r
ress, in whose room the fire started, said Goodell, Carroll Wheeler, A. M. Snow
i masked man entered her room shortly E- Sanders. A. M. Robinson. T. J. Far
after mlritiaM.. f-.nnJ and d her F.retl K' c7"n?- r.f'. ""rling, Charles
. ... il,, llolton and John Holland
and nred the apartment. Mie says sun
managed to get to her feet and hobble
from the room. With many others she
was taken down a ladder.
Miss Reimer spent yesterday in a hos
pital recovering from suffocation result
ing from a small fire in her room yester
day morning.
After an investigation the authorities '
.... a J Al.- .1.- ii f I t-116
COMES TO BARRE MISSION.
Rev. N. C.
Edwall to Become Swedish
Pastor April 9.
Adherents of the Swedish Baptist mis
sion on Brook street announced to-dav
that Rev. X. C. Edwall of Rhode Island
has accepted a call to become pastor of
41. . i . .1 ,1.. ; a.. 1
became satisfied that Ihe fire was of i " '" ' 'v aim n.e F,w
B. & M. LOSS $125,000.
miles east of here, was raided last night
by Mexican bandits, who drove off a
number of cattle and badly beat the care
taker.
Two detachments of the 8th cavalry
are in pursuit of the bandits. One troop
started at full gallop from Fabens, two
satisfy the United States Vat the act
was in violation, of instructions. Thus,
it seemed, the cae might narrow down
to the question of whether the United
States would be willing to accept a dec
la ration from the Berlin government.
President W ilson is awaiting with deep
miles from the ranch. The second left j T"" f ve ev.denoe.
Veleta, some miles on the other side, at
the game time in an effort to cut them
off from the river.
Mr. Kelly was notified bv a long dis
tance telephone message from his fore
man. The foreman said the raiders were
supposed to have come from Guade
loupe, across the river from Fabens.
The Mexican employes on the ranch held
victories reported by the Russians on 'them off in a battle in which more than
the Deneistcr were not gained over large
bodies of Austrian troops, says the offi
cial report of the war ollice at Vienna.
ARTILLERY SQUALLS
WEST OF ME USE
But Otherwise There Was Another Calm
Night on Verdun Front, Says
French Official Statement.
Paris. March 2S. The French official
statement this morning says that there
was no change in the Verdun region dur
ing the night. East of the Meuse all
was calm .and to the west of the river
there were some artillery squalls.
one hundred shots were exchanged.
HOT IN PURSUIT.
U. S.
with
SALONIKI OFFENSE STARTS.
Heavy Artillery Being Used on Both
Sides.
At)ien. via Paris, March 28. Dis-
Cavalry. Turn Southwest
Villa's Flight.
Casas Cirandes, Mex., wireless to Co
lumbus, X. M., March 28. -Villa is flee
ing southwest toward the foothills of
the Sierras. According to army reports
received here yesterday the rapidity of
his flight is hastening the American pur
suit. Alf arms of the service are being
used in an attempt to force the bandit
into a corner.
The Mexican1 residents of this section,
which has been ravaged time and time
not only in regard to the Sussex, aboard
which several Americans narrowly es
raped death, but as to the sinking of the
British steamship Englishman. One
American life is suid in the latest official
reports, to have been lost when the Eng
lishman went down.
Already, it was intimated at the state
department, the I'nited States has in
formation sufficient to warrant the mak
ing of an inquiry of the German govern
ment as to whether any of its subma
rines fired a torpedo at the Sussex or the
Englishman.
PRODDING CONGRESS.
One
again by Villa's bandits, are freely giv- j Democrat refused to vote.
New York Senate Wants Regular Army
of 178,000 Men.
Albany, X. V., March 28. Bv a vote of
30 to 15 the Senate last night adopted
a resolution introduced by Senator MilU
of Xew York, axking Congress to in
crease the strength of the regular army
to 178,000 men, and opposing the feder
alization of the state militia.
All the Democrats awid two Republi
cans voted against the resolution.
Two Freight Sheds and Many Cars Were
Boston, March 28,-o-Fire broke out yes
terday afternoon in two of the Boston &
Maine railroad freight sheds near tna
Northern station and threatened to
spread to nearby structures. Four alarms
were sounded as the flames began to
make quick headway, althought it was
stated that they probably could be con
fined to the two shed.
After an hour's fight the fire was put
tinder control. . All of the merchandise
in shed Xo. 10, adjoining, was damaged.
It was stated that no estimate of tho
loss could be given until clerks checked
up on the amount of freight in the build
ings. An official of the companv said last
night that the loss on the freight alone
would be not less than fl2j,iM)0 and
might be more. In addition, he said,
there were probably 50 or fiO cars in
the structure, and until further exam
ination disclosed' hov? - badlv these were
damaged and to what extent the build
ing had suffered, it would ne impossible
to make an accurate estimate of the to
tal loss. .... -
incendiary origin and they arrested three
men and a woman and placed a puiu'
guard over Miss Reimer at the hospi
tal. Xearly all of the five were involved
in a white slave investigation a few days
ago. In that case the Reimer girl was
the alleged victim.
WELL KNOWN WAITSFIELD MAN
Melvin J. Waterman Dropped Dead of
Heart Trouble.
The. call to the Rhode Island clergyman
was extended shortly after it became
known that the preceding pastor. Rev
John mork, was to resign. Jt is ex
pected that Rev. Mr. Edwall will begin
his work in Barre April 9.
(rood wishes and tokens of esteem fol
lowed the retiring pastor, Rev. Mr. Bjork,
on his way to Rhode Island, where he is
to engage in missionary work among the
Swedish people. At a farewell reception
Saturday evening in honor of Mr. Bjork,
many persons not numbered in his own
flock joined with his parishioners. One
Waitufield, March 28. The funeral of of the enjoyable features came when O.
Melvin J. Waterman, who died suddenly Mellin, speaking for the assembled com-
Satnrday afternoon, was held yesterday pany, made a presentation to the pator,
afternoon at his late home, Rev. William who responded feelingly. Montpelicr
A. Kemele. pastor ot the Congregational friends of Rev. Mr. Bjork also expressed
church, oflicmting. J he bearers were their appreciation of his services by ten
Henry X. LaMorder, Rowland Russell, derimr a reception and presentinjr him
John -Men and oeorge v . Martin, ana j a substantial gilt.
interment was in the village cemetery
The funeral was attended by a large
number of relatives and friends and rep
resentative townsmen. Those from out I At the
of town attending are Heber A. Jackson
and Mrs. David Smith of Waterville,
Mrs. lieonard Freeman and Will Free
mairof
of East Warren and Mr. and Mrs- Joset)
Burzell of Montnelier. 12:30 o'clock to attend the funeral of
Mr. Waterman was found dead at 4 " erner a. ihck, a prommenr rrarre gran
.. . .... I U. ...., i - ,1AI. .. i. 1..-.,
oc oeic fiatnruav auernoon. ov cum ""' ubmhiiiuvi, umm i iub
of East Warren waa driving by when he home, 21 Branch street, Saturday even-
found Mr. Waterman sitt ntr n li s ig toiiowea a protracted illness. .Mem
him and I oers oi me nepuoiican ciiy conimuiief
1
FREIGHT CLOG
AFFECTS BARRE
Many Monument Shipments
Are Being Held
. Up .
SHORT E OF CARS
J JIIEF TROUBLE
EfT,s Being Made by the
".aanuracturers to Se
cure Relief
MANY ASSOCIATES PRESENT
Funeral of Werner E. Beck at
Universalist Church.
Various circles of activity were repre-
' Warren, Mr. and Mr. John Xiell sented among those who gathered in the
; Warren and Mr. and Mrs, Joseph Universalist church this afternoon at
WAS AT TOP OF POLE.
Fred Greenough Grasped a Live Wire at
Haverhill
Haverhill, Mass., March 28 Fred Gree
nough, 23 years old, lineman, was elec
trocuted at the top of a pole late yester
day afternoon. 'Though there were signs
of life when he was placed in an, ambul
ance, he was dead liefore he reached the
Hale hospital.
Greenough, who was unmarried, lived
on Came avenue and was employed by
the Haverhill Electric companv. While
sleigh, the robe tucked about him and
the reins in his hand. His head was
bowed down: otherwise it was hard to
realree that life had ceased. Medical aid
was called, Drs. W. J. Howard and J. L.
Campbell hurrying to the scene. The
cause of death was pronounced to be
heart failure. In Jbebruary Mr. Water
nun had a severe attack of grip and his
heart had bothered him for several years.
Saturday morning, with the exception of
a headache, he seemed to be in his usual
physical condition.
Afelvin John Waterman was born in
Waitsfield March S, 1848, the son of John
and Mary A. (Leach) Waterman. For
years he lived on the farm now occupied
by Joseph Xiell. Later he occupied the
residem-e now owned by Dr. W. J. How
ard, and a few years ago he moved to his
late residence. He served the town as
selectman in I800-19O0. He was one of
a. family of six children, three of whom
survive him. being Alice Boardman, wife
of Wilbur W. Joslin, Alnora M., widow
of Silas J. Rowell of aterbury, and
Charles Winfield Waterman, a prominent
lawyer in Denver. Col. On Jan. I., 1873
he was married to Ida I. Campbell, who
survives him.
WOULD ACCEPT POSITION.
If Vermont G. A. R. Men Want Him for
Commander.
Brattleboro, March 28. Capt. C.
Sfreeter of Brattleboro is at least a re-
at work on a pole at the corner of Wash- jceptive candidate for election to the of-
ing information concerning Villa's flight,
supplies, armament and strength to the
American military authorities.
While much information has been too
indefinite to Ik- of value, it is presumed
that the knowledge that the Americans
are kept informed as to Villa's move
ments has influenced the bandit chief-
patches from Saloniki say that the fron-juin to the greatest haste in his retreat.
Although the United States troops are
following closely in his wake, so far, it
is stated, no fighting has taken place.
tier action which has hitherto been eon
si.lered merely as trying operations, on
th part of the Bulgarians and Germans,
are now asxiiming the character of a
general attack against the advanced line
of th allies. Considerable vigor is be- j
ing employed on both aides. It is said
that in both military and diplomatic cir
cle of the teutonic allies there is a be
lief that the lonjr prophesied effort to
drive the allies into the se has begun,
but it is pointed out that the cirrleo,
in Athens at least, sre not in a posi
tion to I aeruratdr informed. In en
tente circles here, while the importance
of the incr--ing activity of the Hul
f srian i Germans is ik! minimize I,
tsrre in a jreneral ronvwfion that they
da n-t ern'-!y intend to attempt to
rapture Sslonli,!.
MUCH PESSIMISM FELT
Adoption of the resolution was pre
ceded by a spirited debate which lasted
nearly three hours. Opponents of the
measure, while agreeing that some form
of preparedness was necessary, contend
ed that it was unwise for a state legis
lature to attempt to instruct Congress.
SUFFRAGE SIDETRACKED
About Prospects ef Capturing Villa Very
Soon.
El Paso. Tex- March 28. There i
much pewimism in army circle over tl.a
prosperts of capturing Villa, and It i
felt that unb cornered within a week
J the bandits will have outrun their pur
suers ami many monin may pass be
fore be and his hand will 1- ferreted out
of their bi-liiig plaon. THe dUpat- hea
from t 'ie advarwed flj trg column prrse -j
inir Vi!l Hoclv make nv ment ion of I
Laving cm in contact with any bandits, nigrt.
Also Prohibition Before House Judiciary
Committee Acts.
Washington, D. C. March 2S. By a
vote of 10 to 9, the House judiciary com
mittee to-day voted to postpone indefi
nitely the consideration of all suffrspe
and prohibition proposals now before it
WON'T RETIRE.
ington street and Florence avenue, Grce
nough wedged his body between wires
and with his bare hand grasped another
wire which completed a circuit through
his body. The force of the electric shock
threw him away from the pole and he
fell 30 feet to the ground. Fellow em
ployes carried him from the street and
ttempted resuscitation.
Medical ollicials believe that he died
rom the electric shock but will make an
autopsy to decide whether or not he
was injured in his fall from the pole
sufficiently to cause death.
WILL NOT ALLOWED
It
Willard Has Ne Intention ef Quitting
the Ring.
Chicago. March 28. Je Willard ar
rived from New York yetcrUy with hw
rikht hand in banAncs. Otberwi he
lrorrd no il! efTivts of his contet with
Frank Moras ia Xew York Saturday
Because Alvin P. Cummingi Drew
Without Proper Execution.
In probate court at Montpelier the will
of Alvin P. Cummings, late of Montpe
lier, was disallowed because the instru
ment was not properly executed. Mr.
Cummings. who died a few weeks ago,
drew up the will himself.
The will of Arthur T. Johonnott. late
of Montpelier. 'm presented for probate,
and T. Redfield Phillips was appointed
administrator, with will annexed, while
Frank X. Smith and Charles W. Ben
jamin were appointed appraisers and
commissioners.
"Die w ill of Jsnie Brown, late of Mont
pelier. was presented for prolnte; and
O. J. )ilee of Barre settled his accounts
as admini-trator of the estate of Albert
F. IV!ge. late of Barre.
fice of department commander of Ver
mont at the annual encampment in Bur
lington, which will be in session April
18 and 19. Capt. Streeter will not en
ter a contest, but he has the support
of some prominent Grand Army men, in
cluding Col. Thomas Hannon of the Sol
diers' home in Bennington,; Gen. T. S.
Peck of Burlington, department Com
mander George P. Martin of Montpelier
and the delegates from Sedgwick post
of Brattleboro, of which he is past com
mander. J
Cant. Streeter is president of the
and the First Vermont Cavalry associa
tion. He enlisted in Co. F, 1st Vermont
cavalry, in Brattleboro and was pro
moted until be became captain Feb. 2,1
18ti.). While a sergeant he was twice
wounded in a battle near Charlestown
in the Shenadoah valley. He is a pen
sion agent, a real estate agent and a
trustee of the Soldiers' home.
bers of the Republican city committtee,
the fire department and several frawrna
orders were present, among the latter
being the Odd fellows of Minnehaha en
enmpment, Canton Vinton nnd Hiawatha
lodge, Bright Star Rebekah lodge, the
Koval Arcanum and the J. K. O. P. Odd
Fellowship honored one of its most ac
tive members bv sending large delega
tions of the three organizations to the
church. Prior to the church services
there was a brief prayer service at the
house.
Rev. J. B. Reardon, pastor of the Uni
versalist church, was the officiating
clergyman, and in connection with the
chureh services the ritual of the ()d
rellow8 was used. ihe tiearer were
Chief C. B. Gladding of the fire depart
ment and the following employes of Beck
4. Beck: thomas (j. Bailey, Frank I.
Adams, John S. Howell, John Gregvvare
and Thomas Davidson. Interment was
made in Hope cemetery.
THREE-CAR SCHEDULE
To Be Used All Day on Traction Line,
Beginning Next Thursday.
Asst. Supt. William Corry of the
Barre 4 Montpelier Traction & Power
company announced to-dav that liegin
ning Thursday morning, the old three-
car schedule w ill be run all day instead
of during the afternoon as at present.
He said that the return to the former
schedule is due to the fact that frost is
coming out of the ground, making it nec
essary to run at somewhat slower time.
So, beginning Thursday morning, the
first car out of Barre will start at 0:15
and thereafter during the day the cars
will leave every half-hour, at quarter be
fore and quarter after the hour.
tor several weeks the coqipanv has
been running its afternoon cars on the
three-car schedule, two cars being run
at other times during the day and in the
evening.
DIED OF HEART DISEASE.
ASKS FOR DIVORCE.
BURNED TO DEATH.
Lyman H. Atkins and Wife at Mansfield,
Mass.
Guilford Man Alleges Desertion and
Seeks Daughter's Custody.
Brattleboro, March 28. A suit for di
vorce w filed yeterdsy by Charles H.
Lvnde of tiu.lford. who recently sued
Merton H. Iloolittle of thi town for
am (SKI. alleging alienation of the affec
tion of Lynde wife.
In the divree petition Lymle alleges
desertion. He asks for the custody of a
George B. Catlin of Burlington Wis II!
But Short Time.
Burlington, March 28. George B. Cat
lin died late at his homo at I'carl
street of angina pectoris. Mr. Cuilin ; their product to Vermont dealers, cons
had been in ill health about a year and j iKn their shipments on tlat cars. One
a half. Suddenly yesterday afternoon ' Karre dealer is exuecting a consignment
nean aiiacit anuiof autos that was supposed to leave the
Through the freight congestion thafc
ihs developed in all of the larger railroad
centers of the East, Barre grajiite manu
facturers, and quarriers as well, are face
to face with one of the most Hcrioti
shipping problems that has arisen in
many a day. While tho stoppage has
worked a hardship on manufacturers of
other products for some time mist, it i
only within recent weeks that its elfect
have been acutely felt in the Barre gran
ite belt. And it may be said right hero
that the problem 'is being presented to
the producers in its gravest asnects.
Thousands of dollars worth of finished
stone is piling lip in the sheds nnd tho
pronpects for shipment are not at all
promising.
Realizing the gravity of the situation.-
the Granite Manufacturers' association is
to carry the burden of its complaint be
fore the officials of the Central Vermont
railroad this week in an effort to have
conditions alleviated, if only in a meas
ure, in its larger aspects the present)
tate of affairs involves not only a heavy
nanciai kw tor the manufacturer, but
t carries with it the possibility that a
jmrtial suspension of operations will fol
low if relief does not come. Business
conditions, so far as the general employ
ment ot Jahor is concerned, are not ex
actly what the optiniistis would like to
sec and unless the channels of transpor
tat ion are opened in the near future, in-
tead of improving, conditions will grow
orse. There are varied reasons for be
lieving that the approach of summer will
see a pronounced quickening of industrial
activity in the Barre belt, but the freight)
embargo that exists to-day will not hast
en the return of normal conditions.
Barre shippers are pinning some fa it It
on the outcome of a conference of rail
road men! in Xew York, in which the
Central Vermont roud is represented by
its general freight agent, X. W. Ilawkes,
whose return to Vermont to-day or to
morrow will be the signal for a" confer
ence between the manufacturers here and
the railroad officials. An effort is being
made to secure a routing through Albany
and Buffalo for granite shipments, and if
the , way is opened for transportation,
through that channel, one remedial meas
ure will have worked to the advantage
of local shippers.
While the loss involved by delayed
shipments proceeds in a large part from
the fact that the manufacturer is farad
perforce with no other alternative than,
to vacate that part of his contract with
the customer which concerns the time of
shipment, it should be borne in mimt
that other losses are Accruing to the
manufacturer. For instance, costly me
morials ready for shipment since Marclt
1 or Feb. 15, if they remain in the shed,
are subject to assessment for taxes after
April I. Xaturally, it has been the prac
tice of all manufacturers to have their
storage space clew red of finished work bv
the first of April, but this year it ap
pears that 'many expensive pieces il
work will figure in the assessors' ap
praisal.
Railroad men here in Barre arc in
clined to ascribe the congestion, lot-wily,
to the shortage of flat cars on which
most of the granite is shipped. ' It m
pointed out that every piece of motive)
apparatus on the larger arteries of
freight transportation is being used tn
convey loaded Jreight cars. And so IB
follows that the railroad can scarcely be
expected to divert their locomotives toj
the tusk of hauling empty trailers.
Transportation of munitions to the sea
board towns is cited as a single reason
for the congestion. In Xew York, Chi-
ago and other centers, it is said, the
freight vards are jammed with cars-
Throughout the Kust the report is much
the same. The Central Vermont road is)
guaranteeing only o far as it pier in
New York, taxraf shipments to Boston
are possible, but beyond the Hub thev;
re uncertain. Some shippers are resort
ng to the express romoanv as a medium,
but in bulky- consignments the results,
may be expected, are. not wholly sats
sfactorv. Cases are cited where cons
ignees are paying the $1 pes- day per)
car demurnige in preference to paving
storage charges.
Recently the Central Vermont road pes
titioned the Grand Trunk system for fill
tlat caps, but the parent company could
not spare the tractors to fetch the "flats"'"
to the .jMiint where they are needed!
most. Partial solution of the problem
so far as it affects Barre manufacturers,
may be readied in a movement to have)
western auto manufacturers, shipping
he was seized with a
expired at 10:15 o'clock.
Mr. Catlin was born in Winooski Feb.
4. 1S.V1, and lived there for some time.
factory on Hat cars.
For the reason that the stoppage if
grnersl ami not confined to any one dis-
He was engaged in the lime business i trict. the outlook for immediate relict!
and was a large farm owner. Besides his is not encouraging.- It is a situation tha(
fe, he leaves two daughters. Miss ;hs never been really par.illeicl. so gran'
Lllen Catlin, for several years in mis
sionary wnrk in Turkey, and Miss Until
Catlin, who recently went to New Yori
to live.
BOi SHOT IN LEG.
He Was Cleaning 22-Calibre Rifle When
Weapon Discharged.
Brttlcb..ro, March 2S Raymond
j....t, five year, ol.l There are aged i . son oi Air. and Mrs.
other daughters, aged three and seven Benjamin A. (town of I mst place, while
nTf I cleaning a 22 cabbre rifle at the home of
Mr r.tnde k'rf f" Po.little ' " grandparent. Mr. and Mr. H. F.
after Miss Ltbel itler. who bad served !eyo of est Diinimerston, was ac i
in (..t capacity IT veurs. left. letters dentally ht in the left leg ahtue the
between Jsxl ttle and Mrs. l ynde. read knee ye-i.rday afternoon. He was taken
ite men say, in the history of t he indus
try. It is replete with grave possibilities'
and its effect, should conditions remain
as they are for any length of lime, wilj
lie little short of paralvring.
CONFERENCE WEEK
Opens at Montpelier To-morrow Dele,
gates Arriving.
The 721 annual session of the Vermont
Mrtlwvlist c-nfi-rence was started al
Montpelicr thia evening with the prelim
inary work, including the exumnation of
the younger preacher-. The conference
proper w il! he cncd e ln--iay morn
ing at v o cioi-k in inn.tr :ir, n anj
Manstield. Mass .Varr'i T vmsa
H. Atkins and wife were tnirned l, ,'teath ! in a hreacli of promise mt brought bv to the Mem'-rial b -spital w here t '.e ur- j ill continue ttrotii'1! t next M'mdii
in a fir which destroyed tJieir home to-Mia Oitlcr apmt Iol:tt!e. wife the geon eaWi it would not be nct-Mrjr April 3. IVb gtea began arri img if
day. Eath was about 70 vears of a has for Mr. Lmde's pn.eeed.nr.' extrait the buKcU Montpelicr this aitermsm.
I
