55jTfl .(f
P. I KI11
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
v.... , j.-- . i ., .-
Ik--" ifemjk
'A,f
a In In d o rj
.-'We
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 1916
pmrp Twn n?TUTQ 0N trains and nbwv
jrivlLiCi l.WU tiN la btands five cent
yyyAy jxiu a viva v jlvivavls,
DISCUSS SITUATION
AT CABINET I
Whether Diplomatic Relations Will Be Severed at Once On
Receipt of Evidence That Liners Were Torpedoed With-
' out Warning Is Question To Be Settled Only Swift and
Adequate Punishment jof Submarine Commander Will
Prevent Severance of Relations Cable Inquiry to Berlin
'. Is Dispatched Today
By Robert J. Bender,
Washington, March 28. The state department today
cabled to Berlin an inquiry asking whether a German
submarine torpedoed the steamers Sussex and English
man. Berlin was notified by the state department's cable
that evidence now in possession of the United States in
dicated that submarines were responsible.
The inquiry will probably not arrive in Berlin before
tomorrow or Thursday, owing to the usual cable delays in
all matter transmitted to the German capital.
Discussed by Cabinet.
President Wilson and his cabinet today decided to ask
Germany for information about the explosion which
damaged the steamer Sussex in the English channel with
severe loss of life.
It is still apparent that the state department and the
White House are disposed to demand something more
than a mere disavowal if it is shown that a German sub
marine was responsible.
It is not believed that a severance of diplomatic rela
tions would be too drastic. The cabinet decided to inter
rogate Germany after Secretary Lansing had presented
his official reports of the disaster.
The cabinet believes these reports insufficient to de
termine that a German submarine torpedoed the channel
steamer with its cargo of non-combatants and that the
torpedo was hurled without warning.
It is likely that the .ittitude of cou
ntess will nut make it necessary for the
president to send the statesmen a mes
sage if lie decides to sever dinlntnntic
relations. Instead of being a drag on
the administration's policy as in the!
nrmed liner case congress now is
parently urging President Wilson on
When he determines to sever rela
tions, it is believed he will send con
gress a note announcing his intention
and explaining the incidents which, in
his judgment, make such a step neces
sary, he will not seek authority tr
make the move and possibly will only
nend congress a memorandum after the
severing, as he did when Carrunza was
recognized. Ill this he .iy express the
hope that congress approves.
While it is thought certain Germany
-will disavow both the Sussex and the
Knglishman cases, if responsible, the
nature of the disavowal must differ
in. m other Teuton utterances before
diplomatic connections can continue. It
is believed the responsible submarine
commander must be named to the world
and Adequate punishment must be
established to Aerie's satisfaction.
An immediate severance, leaving Ger
many to effect a restoration, has been
considered. Home believe Germany
would make the punishment, repniaticm
an 1 assurances tor the future so sAtis-i
factory that it would be proper for tne
Cnited States to resume diplomatic re
lations later.
At a cabinet meeting it was decided
to make this inquiry nod to slightly
modify the earlier plan of procedure.
Though it was not officially st itcd,
it is assumed that the inquiry will be
Kent to Germany very soon iii view of
evidence indicating that a submarine
diik attack the Sussex.
I ABE MARTIN J
A
Miss Tnwnev Apple's iiiiele is restin' i ever experienced. Soon I was convinced ; nnd bridle. Then I kept my gun cover
e -ier t 'day. Although he is rich and ! that I could never bold out under those j j,ig him and made him ride ahead of me
imminent th' doctor will not operate. 1 conditions an. I I started back 15 long leadine the wnv lo our carnn at La
1 1'.cr hain't
much peace where you .
h:-:n 't got th ' price,
Fragments of Torpedo.
London, Mar. 28. Fragments of
bronze metal which British naval offi-
''"a picked up nbo.ird the Sussez are
pieces of a torpedo, it was anthori-
ap-!tativelv stated todav. The sidinters
were found when tho vessel arrived at
Boulogne after having been damaged
bv an explosion which killed scores and
injured several Americans. The Brit
ish Admiralty has not yet issued its of
ficial statement.
George Crocker, American is in a crit
ical condition at Dover, and may not re
cover, lie sustained a fractured skull
and other injuries.' During the night
Crocker suffered a relapse. Other
wounded Americans are recovering.
Many, however, lost nil their be
longings And several were obliged to
cable home for funds. The captain of
the Sussex declares he saw the flash of
a torpedo as the explosion shattered
the Sussex amidships.
TORPEDOED WITHOUT WARNING
Washington, Mar. 28. The Britisl
merchantman Manchester Kngineor was
torpedoed without warning off Water-
VOsterdav, ,ac
h "t , , - ,
.. , I
cording to a ruble t
rtment from the Ameri
can consul at Oueenstown. Two Amer
icons, negroes, were abzoard,
were no casualties.
There
Army Aviator Tells Story
of Thrilling Adventures
Columbus, X. M., Mar. 28. A taile of
adventure sensational in the extreme
was told today by Lieutenant Gorrel,
the army aviator who was lost for sev
eral days on the northern Chihuahua
desert last week. Gorrel told his story
when he reached here this afternoon
after having flown from General Persh
ing's base near Casus Giundes.
"I left Columbus on Sunday, " said
he,, "and was making an uneventful
flight when I suddenly discovered that
my gasoline tank was empty. I vol
planed to the earth and landed in snfe-
"I spent the whole night in the hills
without a blanket or any covering
whatever. So intense was the cold that
1 nearly froze to death. Tu keep up
my circulation I swung my urms for
hours at a time.
"In the morning, with the aid of mv
field mny and currying only a pint of
water I began a long hike in the hope
of reaching some of our troops. I was ;
afraid to cut for fear I would need my!
rations later. j
"At noon on Monday I ran out of ,
water but still hurried on. in spite of
the heat the most unbearable I have
miles towards a water hole which was
shown on my map.
AS
Ivan G. McDaniel Chosen As
Successor by Board of
Directors
O. IT. Luck, manager of the Salem
Commercial Club handed in. his resigna
tion today at the monthly meeting of
the directors of the Commercial Club.
The resignation was accepted and
resolutions passed expressing the ap
preciation of the board of the efficient
work done by Mr. Luck since he be
come manager last November.
The resignation of Mr. Luck was sub
mitted in the following letter:
- "March 27, ISllo.
"The Tioard of Directors, Salem Com
mercial Club.
'.'Gentlemen: Owing to an opportunity
to make a favorable connection in the
mercantile business in I'ortlnnd, I re
gret that I find it necessary to sever
my pleasant relations with the Kalem
Commercial Club.
"So, T hereby respect' ?nder you
my resignation to tu1 "J ct at your
earliest convenience Q
"Yours .fullv,
iar II.' Luck."
After acc.oo .e resignation, the
board passed dlowiiig resolutions:
Motion i .id carried that in4 ac
cepting tV .ignation of Mr. Lnek
that the ft iug resolution be adopt
ed: Whereas, Mr. Luck has tendered his
resignation as Manager of the Club to
lake effect as soon as possible, and
Whereas, is services have been
eminently satisfactory to the Hoard
during hi term of office, and
Whereas, Tho ( lull has derived many
benefits as the result of his services,
now
Therefore Be Tt Kesolvcd, That the
Board herewith accepts his resignation
to take effect April 1st, and
Be It Further Hesolved, That the
Board desires to express its apprecia
tion, of-his faithful and efficient serv
ices r behalf of the Clnb anr' wishes
to extend to him its good will and best
wishes for his future success and to
express its regrets that he finds it
necessary to sever his connections with
the Club.
Resolution made and adopted instrue
ing the executive committee to confer
with Mr. Ivan G. McDaniel and to en
gage him as Manager to succeed Mr.
Luck resigning.
The executive committee convened
and after consulting with Mr. McDaniel
engaged him as Manager as per in
structions from the Board of Directors.
SUNKEN YACHT LOCATED
Vallcjo, Cal., Mar. 28. On the bot
tom of Vallejo bay under 00 feet of
water, supposedly with three corpses in
it, the pleasure launch sunk in collis
ion with the standard uu tanner i noi
inga was located todiy, according to ad
vices from Port Costa. Six men died
in the accident. It is believed the bod
ies of George Kelly, Kdwurd Breslin
and W. L. Lawton, boatswain's mate of
the r. S. collier Saturn are in the
wrecked craft.
Captain T. B. Smith, of the Siturn,
sent several boatloads of bluejackets to
help remove the remains. Divers will
be sent down to disentangle the bodies,
attach ropes to them and so bring them
to the surface. When they have been
recovered an effort is to be made to
raise the I lunch. Relatives of the vie-
tinis wnt to Port Costa to help in the
work.
"My tongue was parched and swollen
and hung from my mouth. I breathed
in alkali ut every step and finally faint
ed. In a few minutes I recovered mv
senses and was on in way again. In
a little while 1 went down again and
did not revive for several minutes,
(iood God, it was awful.
"I saw a big lake as I staggered on
and started eagerly towards it. Then
I (remembered that murages tortiu'e
thirsty people in the desert when they
become delirious.
"Fifty feet from the water hole my
map showed I fell again and it was a
full hour before I came to.
"I finally succeeded in crawling to
the hole and stuck my head into it mid
drunk as I had never drunk before.
"For an hour I n-ufd by the water
hide before filling my canteen and
stnrted on my journey again.
Another night on the desert and
then the next day I saw a horse and
stole him. I was cutting strips from mv
trousers to make a bridle when I saw a
Mexican running up. I got the drop or
him but lie threw up his hand and said
he was a friend. I didn't take nnv
chances, however, and at the point of n
tpD,ina -l, T t ; ii. :n
f. Cited States column."
RUSSIANS PRESS
STRONG ATTACKS
01 EAST FRONT
Berk Reports Offensive
Along One Hundred
Mile Front
GERMANS CLAIM TO BE
INFLICTING GREAT LOSSES
French Rush German Trench
On War Front Killing
All Defenders
By Carl W. Ac'sermanv
(I'nited Press Staff Correspondent.)
Berlin, Mar. 2s. Russian troops to
day are renewing their attacks against
Field Marsha! Von llindenburg 's sol
diers on a 10ft mile front. Hurling
themselves again ami again at the bar
bed wire entanglements of the Ger
mans, the Slavs are being slaughtered
in great numbers. They have not suf
fered heavier losses since the memor
able retreat from Dunjjec a year ago.
But they must' keep ou attacking or,
admit defeat and retreat,
The spring thaw will soon set in. Then
Kussian lowlands will be flooded, and
tho czar's commanders must withdraw
their entire line.
The Germans will suffer from floods
also, but they uill not be compelled to
withdraw as much as the Russians.
Therefore the Slavs are wasting much
ammunition in desperate efforts to
seize to seize higher positions before
spring freshets turn their trenches in
to muddy ditches and make, their camps
into a vast swamp.
Despite the fury of repeated Russian
charges, German officers are confident
their line will be held intact. One
Germ An officer wrote relatives here
that Russian n-.'ksuiausiiip was very
poor. ' ,
So strong are the Teuton defonscs'
that this officer wrote his battalion los1
only two killed And seventeen wounded
when the Slavs came on behind a cur
tain of terrific explosions.
Formerly one Russian officer was
found among every 300 privates cap
tured, on the average. Now, however,
the ratio is one officer to every OU
rankers.
German Destroyer Sunk.
London, Mar. 2S. Rammed liy the
British cruiser Cleopatra, a German
destroyer was sunk in the North sea,
last Sunday night after a battle be
tween a British squadron and a flotil1,
of Teuton destroyers, it was announced
by the admiralty today. The destroyers
crew drowned.
The engagement probably followed
the clash off the north Frisian coast
Saturday in which two German nrmei'
patrol boats were sunk. Germany then
admitted that a destroyer .had not re
turned from the fight.
All British ships ignged in recent
operations off the German coast return
ed safely except the destroyer Medusa,
previously reported lost in a collision.
The Medusa's crew wns saved. Twenty
prisoners from the two armed trawlers
sunk by British destroyers were brought
back to port with the victorious
squadron.
German Trenches Rushod.
Paris. Mar. 2S. Hushing into an ad
vance German position in Purroy
woods, French troos killed all occu
pant who refused to surrender and
withdrew after blowing up the trench,
it w is officially announced today.
Creeping through the forest,
the French suddenly leaped up
on the outposts. A bloody struggle at
close quarters followed in which revol
vers, bvoncts and clubbed muskets
were used. The surviving Germans
dropped their weapons and submitted
to capture.
The excitement in the trench attract
ed oilier German outposts and n brisk
rifle fire was beginning when the
French laid their dynamite ch irge and
fled, takiug the prisoners along.
Klsewlicre the official statement said
the night was calm. An artillery fight
around Alalancourt was the only inci
dent of the Verdun struggle.
Battle Develops.
Berlin, Mar. 28. Fighting around St.
F.loi where the British Attacked and
destroyed German trendies may de
velop into a strong enemy offensive,
the war office announced today.
British troops are continuing their
pounding of the German lines, al
though no more important gains have,
been made. Improved weather nas
brought out many British aeropl men
which fill the air over the battlefield.
It was suggested that this extensive
aviation, the good weather and the
heavy attacks indicate that the Brit
ish are beginning a drive to relive the
pressure on Verdun.
The Kussi ins continued their nssnults
during the night In Postaway region
wit, ion! result.
Two Rusiinn divisions advancing up
on the German positions in waves were
almost annihilated by sheets of firi
from well entrenched Brandenburg and
Hanoverian troops.
All Hands Were Saved.
London, -Mar. -S. All iianda were
E
Posters Adorn Walls In All
Parts of California
Metropolis
San Fruiciseo, Mar. 2S. Printed in
vivid colors, an army recruiting poster
rivaling in appearance the famous
"Your king ami country need you"
appeal of Great Britain appeared on
walls in all parts of Sin Francisco to
day. "Come on boys, shoulder the trusty
Springfield!" it cried from the sign
boards. Placid folks going to work with
no thought of war were suddenly con
fronted with '.' KXLIs'l' Are you
game?'' from fences and posts'" the
printed word went out "Business men
can help. The boys are now crossing
alkali deserts and jungles of Mexico.
The flag, old glory, invites your ser
vice. ' '
The pos'ers asked for fiflO enlist
ments aplicants a day. Ami it is get
ting results. Thirty men daily are
joining the colors at the Market street
office. Double shifts of recruiting of
ficers are working at 20 stations un
der jurisdiction of the San Francisco
office anil a call has been sent to
Washington for more men. Soon the
Presidio parade ground may be dotted
with "awkward squads" learning the
manual of arms, as lin Spanish war
days.
"Roojiies" from nil over the west
coast are being drilled all day At Fort
McDowell on Angel Islnnd. As fast as
the men arc considered fit they are
rushed to the Mexican line.
A call has been issued for civil, me
chanical, mining and electrical engin
eers to co-operate with army And mili
tia authorities in raising a national
tniard engineer corps of 1,000 men.
Companies are to be organized in San
Francisco, Oakalud, Los Angeles and
Sacramento immediately and in other
cities later. The men will be trained
in digging trenches, building pontoon
bridges, placing barbed wire entangle
ents, constructing artillery shelters and
making military highways.
BERRI BERRI IMPORTED
Portland, Ore., Mar. 28. With nine
eases of bcri beri aboard, the British
bark Invergarry left up the river from
Astoria for I'ortlnnd today. She was
14! days out from Pernambuco, Brazil,
when she crossed the bar. The vessel
was funmigated at Astoria last night.
Captain J. R. Campbell, master of the
Invergarry, commanded the British ship
Glenholm when she was torpedoed by n
German submarine off Fastnet last
May.
During a storm off the South Amer
ican const the Invergarry lost .iome
spars and put into Montevedo for re
pairs, remaining there three "weeks.
COMMITTED TO JAIL
Rcir.n, Sisk., Mnr. 2S. After being
kept all ni:ht last night in the par
liament buildings, I!. 11. Devline, M.
P., wns today committed to jail with
out bail on nine charges of theft aggre
gating $12,000. He was not represent
ed by counsel and did not request bail.
saved when the British steamer Im
press of Midland was sunk, presumably
by n submarine or mine. Announcement
said todav. The vessel was of 2,224
tons, all steel.
Peace Discussed.
Berlin, Mnr. 2S Tentative peace pro
posals were discussed by the allied con
ference gathered at tnr T'aris war conn-
il, according to Swiss information Jo-ilav.
Where Austrians Hurl Bombs
At Surgeons In The Field
By William O. Shepherd. I
(I'nited Press staff correspondent.)
Salonika, Greece, Feb. 21 (By mail.)
Seventy-five girls from Canada,
standing among their hospital tents on
n little hill seven miles out from Sa
lonika, looking into the sky.
Above them a circling Austrian nero
plane. The whistle of falling Austrian aero
plane shells; three terrific explosions
on the earth nearby; a heavy thud of
one shell that didn't explode nnd that
would hnve killed a tentful of wounded
men if it had this van my first
elimpse of No. 4 Canadian hospital.
The Austrian killer sailed away.
In the name of God and humanity
why did he try to kill nurses and sur
geons and sick and dying men You
feel these things more when you see
them yourself than when you read
about them. In one of those tents, nt
the time, not a hundred feet from where
nn Austrian shell fen, n great surgeon
from Canada whose name is known and
honored among the surgeons of Ger
many nnd Austria, was toiling with l i
knife on the vitals of a young officer
using nil the skill and science that
20 centuries of study have ofordod
the art of surgerv! and one if these
Austrian shells might have wiped nt
Hint scene, actors nnd nil the surgeon,
the man who was holding the me'c'frl
ether cone, the nurses who ws'o M a mi
V LLA HARD PRESSED
General Gavira Gives Out News That Bandit Is At El Oso,
With Both Carrana Troops and Americans Close Upon
Him Party of Mexican Raiders Cross Border Into
United States and Attack Ranch of C. E. Kelly -Cavalrymen
Follow Outlaws Into Mexico, When Notified of
Outrage by Superintendent.
By E. T. Conkle,
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
El Paso, Texas, March 28. News of another bandit
raid into American territory and publication of a mes
sage asserting United States troops and constitutional
ists were close on Francisco Villa and "h'arrassing him
constantly" were the most important developments in
the great Mexican manhunt today.
General Gavira at Juarez made public the following
dispatch from General Bertoni, constitutionalist com
mander at Madera:
"Villa is at El Oso. T believe Colonel Cano is the one
of our chiefs closest to him. Our troops and the Ameri
cans are harrassing him constantly."
Ten cavalrymen were in pursuit today of . Mexican
outlaws who swooped across the border near Fabens "and
attacked the ranch of C. E. Kelly, former mayor of El
Paso. The ranch superintendent was assaulted and
severely beaten. He walked to the T. E. Wingo ranch
near at hand and notified a detachment of the Eighth
cavalry, troop E, which was encamped there. Ten fast
riders were ordered to gallop after the outlaws.
Latest dispatches from the American
punitive expedition say Villa is fleeing
rapidly southwest toward the Hierra
Madero foothills with Americans close
iy trailing him. Mexicans who form
erly hailed Villa as an idol are now aid
ing his pursuers. An iviator from the
base 12(1 miles south of Dublan head
quarters is scouting with tho American
vanguard. The base is believed equip
ped with iufantry nnd artillery to sup
port the cavalry vanguard should a
pitched fight occur.
The problem of getting supplies to
the American ndvinced posts is be
coming more serious hourly. It is
thought certain that use of Mexican
railroads will be imperative if Villa is
not run down soon.
(onuto Ueyes, bandit leader, with
l."00 outlaws has appeared near Tor
reon seizing small settlements nnd for
eigners in Torreon ire ready to flee for
safety, Mexican advices said.
Supply Trains Speeded.
San Antonio, Texas, Mar. 21 Supply
trains carrying munitions nnd provis
ions from Columbus to the American
baso of operaitons in Mexico are be
ing speeded up todav as the problem of
maintaining lines of communication bo
comes more severe. Numbers of trains,
each composed if 27 motors, arc being
rushed to Columbus for immediate use.
Mayor General Fred i'linston derided
the report of a bandit raid on the Kelly
ranch near I'd Paso, lie said: "Wo
have no reports of nny such action or
of troubles anywhere. All we cm do
is wait nud hope that our line of sup
plies will not be broken,"
Censorship Tightened.
1 Culubiis, X. M., Mar. 2S. Tightening
of the censorship on dispatches from
ni j; nearby with the surgeon's tools and
the senseless man, himself. (Ir might
it not, with the strange trickery of
shells, have killed all except the. man
on the table and left him to come to his
senses, with no kindly other pouring
into his lungs and with 'he vital opera
tion only half done? Tho possibilities
are too terrible to consider. Not a rhell
hit the great group of luspitnl tints.
Hut the point is that the Aisirl'in tried
to hit them.
You feel strongly, ns I hove said,
about an incident of this sort, especial
ly if you are marked to go on the oper
ating table yourself the next day. And,
also if you lire scheduled to spend a
couple of weeks in one of the tents
lying helpless until the surgeon's cut
tings have begun to heal.
Hy this time the hospital has become
normal; the excitement of the patients
has abated under the assurances of tho
nurses that the aeroplane has gone. You
are escorted to a tent, by an orderly
who, you discover later, first learned
his business in Hellevue hospital in New
York. A sweet faced nurse meets you
Ot the door of the tent; she used to be
in a hospital in Brooklyn.
"Tnko any bed you please of these
five," she says, "unit you nr,:st un
dress nnd go to be. I right away, too."
The bed is u cot; the covers ore heavy,
(Continued on Page Three.)
IS 'LATEST REPORT
Casus Grnndes and the activity of th
troops here jireparing for some un
known movement wWei believed tO fore
cast important developments today.
The censorship will also be tight
ened elsewhere, it wns announced. An
other tr.iinload of fresh horses arrived
today. All the animals were elipped
immediately. Pack trains south of
Cusns Oruudes are understood to be
straining up precipitous mountains car
rying provisions to tho American sol
diers. Collector of Customs liiggs today auc
tioned DO Villist i horses which were
abandoned during the raid on Colum
bus. The proceeds will bo turned over
to the treasury department.
Will Remove Mexican Troops.
Douglas, Ariz., Mar. 28. Governor
Callcs, it wus reported today will re
move all do facto troops from A gun,
Pricta Thursday in order to remove the
cause of disquieting rumors in the vicin
ity of Douglas. ,
1 Frcderico Garcin and Rufnel Coron-
ndll. M evifil iv. nrt'ivcd )nrn tnrlnv in
search of two bandits who murdered
their cousin, O. Coronnrm, ond Francisco
I Garcia, near Mulutns, Sonora, stole
' their burros and $'2,000 worth of mer
chandise and fled to the border. Thd
j bandits are said to hnve disposed of
tho merchandise in ivi TIgro mlninjy
camps, lhe burros worn discovered in
Douglas. The sheriff here is aiding in
tho search.
Send Carranza Cavalry.
Douglas, Ariz., Mnr. 28 Following
a conference between Governor P. Klias,
I ('alien nnd de facto General Arnulfo
Gumex it Agua Prietu today, it was
decided to send Gome:', with MOO I ar
ran.islu cuwilry from Colonia. Morclos)
to Mocli'ziima to guard against Villis
tas entei ing Souoia.
Should Villa attempt to cross into
Souorn, I'nited Stutes officers today
discussed toe possibility of an Anic.ri
cin expedition eing sent into Mexico
from here.
Arrange Transportation.
Washington, Mar. 2S. The state d -partment
today telegraphed Consul
Itogers at (jueretaro, the temporary
Mexican capital, asking him tentatively
to arrange for transportation of army
supplies by railroad from tho border to
tho American expeditionary force.
Meantime the protocol covering- com
plete cooperation between United
States troops and Cnrrnnzistaa in the
hunt for Francisco Villa is held iu abey
ance. (Continued on Tags. Five.)
THE WEATHER
)fc (ft s(c sc ijt (( sc jt fc s)c ss sfc )Jc it
''TOO flNF Tr
ISTM INDOORS Oregon
Toniffht
fair,
lieht. frost
nnrtnwesi, neuvy
frost south and
east portions; and
Wednesday fair,
wanner; norther
ly wiuds.
(
