Daily and Sunday
HERALD
30
Cents a
Month
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME.
HERALD
AS first announced January I, 1916. Th? Herald
guarantee*? full money ? worth to thr purchaser*
of articles advertised in the dup'.ay cotamr.? of th?
paper by any Washington mer-Jiant
- ... t.h iurruhea
NO. 3.389.
WEATHER: FAIR, WARM
WASHINGTON. D. C, WEDNESDAY, .TANUARY 26. 1916
ONE CENT.
1st *W ssUasles ...? ?'.,??, ??Vvraara
Tkerela H.?lHHfRll T'HO tl
GERMAN REPLY
ON LUSITANIA
CASE REJECTED
Lansing Tells Von Bernstorff
Teutonic Proposals Are
Not Satisfactory.
TO FORMULATE DEMANDS
Premier Today Will Prepare
Memorandum of Exact
Language U. S. Expects.
?"??i-maiiT ha? again |M 1" **t>retm
tara?, to meet th? demand? of tha United
BUte? fer m ?ettlemeiit of the Lusitani?
r-ont***over?y.
Cfeunt vae B*m?torff. th? German Am
baaaador. wa? ao Informed at a eonfar
anew which lie had yesterday afternoon
wtth Secretary of State Lansing. While
th? Ambaaaador expect? to confer ?nain
tha* morning ?rtth the Secretary. It 1? not
now expected that anything approaching
? definite nnderatandlng can be reached
natii after the embaaey haa t-eeeived fur
ther instruction? from Berlin.
Although the lateat exchange of view?
ha? failed to bring about an agreement
between the two government?, both ?t
the State Department ?nd at th? em
bassy, confldem?? I? e?pr???s**d that a
basi? of adjuatment ?nil be reached In
the near future.
At the conference today It la expected
that Secretary Lanalng will rubro lt to the
Ambassador. In written form, the precise
language which this government regards
as essential to any linai "settlement of the
rontroverey. With the receipt of this
memorandum the Ambaiaador will for
ward Its content? to Berlin, hi? next
move nece??ar11y being delayed until he
can get a reply with freah Instruction?.
C??l*te?M Tnd?,
The Secretary will hold a conf?rence
?t the While Houae ?ome time during
the morntn**; wtth the Preatldent. who. It
ls understood. wl?hea to apprwre the
?memorandum to be given to the Ambas
sador ; and also to have an understand
In?; with the Secretary as to the gen
erar foreign ?H-uatfon before he leave?
Washington for TO? trtwroping tour.
from authoritative source? tt waa
learned last night that th? ?tumbling
Hock at the preaent time consists of
the unwilling?,??? of th? Oarman gov
ernment to admit that th? eourae of her
? ubmarme warfare at the time the Lusi
tania wa? destroyed wa? illegal. Though
will'rg to pay the? United State? Indemn
ity for the live? of th? American men.
women ar.d children who were lost, the
?".??i-min government It ira? learned, wishes
to base this Indemnity on ? desire to
retain Ih? fr*ler?d?hlp of the United
Ftates rather than upon an admission
of wrongdoing.
Ferry Boats Collide in Fog.
New Tork. Jan. ??A number of per
?on? ?ere Injured and a serlou? accident
wa? rmrrowly averted when the Brook
lya ferry boat Oowanu?. with eoo pas
?enger* on board, collided with another
ferry boat off* the Battery today. Th?
accident was due to fog.
Work for All in ??p?.
G?.-!?, Jan. S.?Official figures Ju?t com
piled show that the number of unem
ployed among both aexes In Paris has
been reduced from Se.ooq to 7MI7 ?Ince
the war began.
S. S. Chamberlain Dies.
San Francisco. Jan. S_Samuel S
chamberlain, one of the beat-known
n-wapapermen In the country, and con
nected with the Boston American, died
here today.
Prohibition Loses in Kentucky.
I-?.?;mgton. Ky.. Jan. ? -The state -sen
ate thl? afternoon voted down tbe State
wide prohibition bill. 3) to 11.
French Airships Set
Monastir in Flames
Braaeial Cable tn TM 'Aaaiiinr?-" Herald.
Saloniki, Jan. 26.?Fire result
ing from an air raid by sixteen
French aeroplanes has partly
destroyed Monmstir
The same squadron of aero
planes attacked the Austro
Germ?n and Bulgarian camps
at Guevgheli.
One hundred and eighty ex
plosive and incendiary shells
were thrown on Monastir and
300 on Guevgheli.
Estimates of the casualties
vary from 100 to 1,000.
All the aeroplanes retnrned
safely to their base. In some
cases their flight was nearly
200 miles.
MOOSE READY
FOR REUNION
Perkins Would Drop Partisan
ship to Oust Wilson from
White House.
ASSERTS PRESIDENT BRINGS
DISHONOR ON THE COUNTRY
Progressive Committee Head Declares
that Party Can Poll 1912 Vote
if Machine IX>rninates G. 0. P.
?pataal to Tka WaSUacttm Barale.
New Tork. Jan. ?5.?George w. per
kina today Announced that the Progres
sive party la ready to unite with the
Republicana "to remove from the White
House the man who haa brought ao
much dlecredlt and diahonor to our
trountry.??
After reading the reporta of the sen
timent expressed ln Chiesero for fusion.
lie dlepatched a letter to Charlee O.
Hilles, chairman of the Republican na
tional committee, expressing* hla vlewe.
Hla letter sa??:
"The :?- {-.ii'v.a will do anythtns
und every thin?; they honorably can to
have both the Republicans and Pro
creeelvee name the ?ame man for the
national ticket and adopt the ?ana*
platform, believing this to be the ???reef
war to remove from tbe White Houae
the man who haa brouaht ?0 much die
credit and diahonor to our country.
WUl Lay laid- Parrliaaahl,
"But the Protrusive? have no intention
of giving up their party organization.
Thia will be made ao apparent aa to
result in victory for the Progressive party
in next fail's election. The 4,000,00 voters
who supported our ticket ln 1912 will re
fuse to ?urrender to party machines ln
1?1?.
"At thi? turning point In the world's
history, we will not ?tick on details. We
will lay aatde partlanablp and prejudice.
But we win never ?urrender the
principles for which we ?tood and ?till
stand.
"We will follow a leader who we know
?tanda for theee principles, and who will
have the ability and courage to put them
through."
He waa aaked if he referred to Col. j
Roosevelt aa the man upon whom the
Republicans and Progressives should
unite.
"I have rles rlbed no particular candi
date." he answered. "Roosevelt needs no
?leecrlption. does he ? He stands alone''
ALLIES BOMBASI) GUEVGHELI.
Ih.KKinrl? Repnrleil Killed In Raid
by Mixteen tero?.
Rome. Jan. SS.?A telegram to the
Arrenala Nationale aaya:
"Sixteen aeroplane? of the allies to
day bombarded Gueva-heli, causing
very serious damale.
'The victims ahould number several
thousand."
Negro Says Mohr Was Slain
So Wife Could Get Property
Witness Declares Brown Understood Control of Estate Was
Behind Murder?Mrs. Mohr Applied for Rights to
'.Administer Property on Day He Died.
By SOPHIE TREADWELL,
Providence. Jan. S.?**I aaked Brown
why aar?. Mohr wanted to have the doc
tor killed?whether It wa? lealouay or
what?and Brown ?aid he understood it
w?? to get i*ontrol of th? doctor'? es
tate."
Thl? wa? part of tht testimony of
Ralph E Bailey in the Mohr trial here
this afternoon. He was one of the many
reporter? vrlth whom th? thr?? nrgr??.
after their arre?, discussed the murder
?f Dr. Franklin Mohr.
Thia statement might have passed as
Insignificant bad it not been for a subse
quent bjt of hsrmiess-iooking evident?
the State offered in the ahape of the Pro
bate Court proceeding? affecting the ea?
tut? of the ?lain man.
Wllford D. Rogers, clerk of the Pro
bate Court, ldentifle-1 a* the redueet of
Attorr.e. Oeneral Hire t.*?- application
ira le bv Mm Mohr for appointment as
radminlstraLrtx ot ho- b : eband'a estate
Mr. Bla? tnq-lr?d casually, "And on
what date was this application filed?'*
"September 1st." answered the witness.
Thla was the thrill that electrified the
courtroom. September let was the day
Dr. Mohr died in the Rhode Island Hos
pital.
"Did ?he mention in thst petition that
there were other heirs'"' asked Mr. Rice.
'She mentioned i'h?rles F. Mohr. Jr..
and Virginia B. Mohr," (her own chil
dren)
Thl? wa? sdilltional evidence tending
to show that Mr?. Mohr'? primary mo
time ln Instigating lier husband'? mur
der was to get control of hi? money.
She had failed to mention In thia first
petition the doctor ? children by hi? first
wife. By thl? stroke, the State succeed
ed In ?A'ping out agnuT the sentimental
effect on the Jury of the charges In her
separation proceedings read Into the rec
ord yeaterday. There ?he alleged that
he had treated her with exceaeive cruel
ty. as?oclated openly with other women?
*t*^sdA a drunkard.
STEEL COMMON
TO PAY 5 PER
CENT DIVIDEND
___________
Confidence in Continued
Prosperity Shown by Board
of Directors.
EARNINGS ARE IMMENSE
Profits for Quarter Amount
to $51,200,000, Says
Financial Statement.
By B. C. FORBES.
N?w Tork, Jan. M.?Th? multl-mllllon
alre director? of th? billion-dollar l'nited
State? Steel corporation today demon
strated their faith In continued prosper
ity.
They resumed payment of the full I
per cent annual dividend on the halt
billion common stock.
Their action, eagerly awaited, was Jua
tlfied by the submission to them of the
greatest quarter-? earning? In th? his
tory of the oorporatlon?*ol,ZS2,TV.
The actual figures for th? final thr??
month? of 131*? exceeded th? moat optl
mlstlo ?"-xpectAtiona.
A? usual, the statement ?raa not com
piled until early afternoon. After Judge
Oary had finished thl? Important taak?
which he doe? personally?th? figura?
wer? Immediately laid before the finan??
committee at 2.30. All th? member? w?r?
preaent. J. P. Morgan and H. C. Frlok
had returned from vacation? te at
tend.
At I o'elock th? finance oommtttee pro
ceeded to th? board room, where there
waa a very larga attendance of direc
tor?, including J. ? Morgan. D. O Reld,
Thoma? Morrison. E. C Converse. Georg?
W. Perkins, Percy Roberts, and Robert
Bacon.
Great excitement pre/vatled m th? cor
ridore. Soor??? of newspaper men had
gathered to oatch the first Intimation of
the newa which Wall Street ha? been
?peculating on with aa Interest never
paralleled.
The elicla' statement handed out by
E. H. Oary follow?:
Th'- e?rrlnc? for the nuarter. ?mount
ing to ?51.32.7?, are I5.73.0M larger than
In the previous quarter. A? uauat.th.sy
were not made up until the day of tM
meeting of the board of director?. Th?
amount of <*-a?h Im banks 1? about $106,000,
000.
The payment of flre per cent wlB
gratify not only the 61.00? stockholder?
who wUl receive a total of Jt5.3Si.78l. but
will have an Immeasurable effect la
solidifying confidence throughout the
whole country. It seve th? seal of th?
most powerful directorate ln th? United
Statea to the growing conviction that
this country ha? entered an era of un
exampled prosperity, an era not deatlned
to be of the flash ln the pan variety, but
prolonged.
WANTS $50.000 COMMISSION.
William, fissi m? Wright ll<-<-?l.e,l
?BOO.OO? for Interest !? ? on, nan?
New ??**. Jan. 25.?The terms of sale
of Orvllle Wright's controlling Interest
In the Wright Aeroplane Company were
revealed today In a suit brought against
him by Pliny W. Williamson. The lat
ter claims lflO.000 which he ?tatea I? due
him as commission for Inducing T. Frank
Mlnville to make the purchase.
According to Williamson, the price of
Wright's Interest wa? ?500,000. Of this
amount ?2MI.000 was In cash and ?250.000
In two mortgages of equal amounts
Wright ls also retained as consulting en
gineer of the company ^at a salary of
?25.C00 a year.
Justice Newberger ?Igned an order re
moving the ?ult to the United States
Court.
ALBANIAN PORT CAPTURED.
A n-,trl*n?? Aleo riptarr Two But
tai low* of M on te ? ?acri ns.
Rome. Jan. 25.?The Austrians in
their southern sweep from Scutari*,
which was captured on Monday, have
occupied San Giovanni (probably the
Albanian port of San Giovanni de
MeduaK
The Rome Idea Nazionale, which
makes this announcement, alao reports
that two Montenegrin battalions have
been made prisoner?, and that the pop
ulation of San Giovanni has fled.
The Montenegrins are now carrying:
on a guerrilla war. chiefly on the Tara
Bo?=ch Mountains, west of Scutari.
GOOD TEAR FOR CHARITY.
Ch?state Report? Tha? 3.IIOO Children
Hase Hern Adopted.
New York. Jan. 3.'?.?"This is the best
year for raising money that I have
ever known." said Joseph H. Choate at
the annual meeting of the State_ Chari
tles' Aid Association today
During the past year the association
took 2.187 children out of public Inatltu
tlons and placed them in private homes.
Scranton Hai -$?30,000 Fire.
Scranton. Pa.. Jan. ?.?Flre early to
day destroyed the clothing store of the
I'h'Ir.delphls, Specialty Company. on
EraV ka'.vanni ?venue, <*ause<i eertous
water and smoke damage to a large
?-and-10-eent store, a ?hoe store and A
large Jewelry establishment. The flre
caused a Usta ?stlmaUd at jn.COH
HIGH-PRICED HUMILIATION
HEIRESS WED
TO CHAUFFEUR
Priscilla ?. Von ?. Ebling
Secretly Marries Fritz
Wolfort, Employe.
Spretai to T*n? Wishlne-toa Herald.
New York, Jan. 25.?Priscilla ?. von
?. Ebling. helreas to 1600,000. and Friti
Wolfort, formerly her mother's chauf
feur, were secretly married in Glouces
ter. Mass., on November 9. It was the'
intention of the young couple to keep
their secret until the bride reaches her
twenty-first birthday next month, all
message from Gloucester tonight, how- j
ever, upset their plane.
"Is It true that you and Mr. Wolfort
were married on November 9?" th*
bride was asked tonight at her moth- [
er'a home ln Weehawken.
"For goodness sake keep quiet until
I tell mamma," exclaimed the young
woman.
She darted away end there was
long wait. Pretty soon ?he returned
with mother.
There was forgiveness In Mrs. Eb
llng's eyes and a happy ?mile un Mra.
Wolfort? face.
"Now you'll have to wait until 1 tele
phone Fritz," announced the bride. An
other wait. Then comes Frits, stalwart
and handsome. If he hesitated for
moment at the door, hts fears were soon
dispelled.
"Mother knows all about it," exclaimed
his wife happily, as ?he threw herself in'
his arms.
Wolfort came to this country live year?
ago from Germahy to make his fortune.
He 1? of good family and splendid ad
dress. He started at the bottom of the
ladder, his first employment having been
aa chauffeur ln the Ebling family.
Ellis Ieknd Order Cancelled.
New York, Jan. 25.?After a confer
ence with steamship and hotel men at
Ellis Island today, Dr. J. B. Denemore.
chairman of a committee appointed by
Secretary of Labor Wllaon, cancelled
the proposed order that nil eecond
cabin passengers must be taken to Kill?
Island. a
Florida-Aw?ramt?i-fnka-?loatai
Atlantic Coaat Une. 4 Ali-ete**-el?e
trlc-llghted traine daily via Standard R.
R. of South. Office. 140? N. T. Ave. N. W.
REUEF FORCE
IS DEFEATED
British Expedition Meets with
Reverse by Turks on
the Tigris.
Siw-li! CiMt? to Tb? W?rfilnctce H?nkL
London, Jan. 25.?-Gen. Aylmer's relief
expedition hae been defeated by the
Turks with great loss on the Tigri?.
"We counted 3,000 English dead," ?say? a
Reuter dispatch from Constantinople,
quoting from a Turkish official report
This waa the result of a six-hour battle
in which all the British attempts to break
through tbe cordon of Ottoman troops
around Kut-el-Amara were repulsed
Th)e battle wa* fought near Miniatile,
which )? twenty-two miles east of Kut
while. The laat battle reported was at
Sheik Said, which la only six miles east
of the beleagurod town. In this earlier
battle the English also lost 3.000 tn killed
and wounded, according to Berlin reports
quoting English prisoners, making 6,000
casualties in these two battle?.
Constantinople ivia Berlin, wireless to
Sayville). Jan. 26?Official: On the Irak
front the engagements continue about the
Kut-el-Amara position. English force*.
coming from Imam-AH-Garbi. on Kriday
attacked the Turkish ?positions near
Memahie, about thirty-five kilometer?
itwenty-two miles? east of Kut-el-Amara
on both banks of the Tigris.
The engagement lasted for six hour?.
All" the English attacks were rv pu leed
by counter-attack?1-;. The English were
driven back several kilometers' to the
eastward. About 3,000 English dea.l were
left on the battlefield The Turkish
losses -?vere comparatively slight. Gen.
Aylmer asked for a day's truce to bury
the dead.
Blow Htine Postofice Safe.
Fortland, Me.. Jan. ?.. -Burglars early!
today blew the safe of the Scar boro Poet
office and escaped with $*?>'?> in cash and,
stamps.
Printen' President Diet.
Chicago. Jan. 2-"..? W. B. Prescott, for
mer preaident of the International Typo
graphical Union, ia dead here today of
apoplexy.
LABOR WILL
DEBATE WAR
British Workmen Probably
Will Vote Against Con
scription at Congress.
S ???"- ?; Cable to Th? W-ufainftoo B?mkL
London. Jan. 25.? The British Labor
Party conference whk-h opens at Bristol
tonight Is expected to be the moat
momentous labor congress in the history
of England
Six hundred dele-grates, representing
nearly two and a quarter million workers.
will rneet and decide upon attitude of
labor in regard to the war, the govern
ment, conscription, and the opening of
pt-a?'? negotiation st
The power of the conference 1* absolute.
What the delegates decide upon must be
carried out, and labor members of
Parliament who refuse acquiescence will
either be forced to resign or be expelled.
The decision of the conference on the
conscription question is certain to be
overwhelmingly apalnst the government's
measure Lloyd George's hints at the
need of Industrial conscription on ac
count of the grave labor situation have
convinced trade unionists that the bill la
Intended to pave the way for introduc
tion of compulsion In ?he workshops.
Will IVele-um-r lV?r.
The labor men are deeply concerned
with the question of peace and what is,
to come thereafter. One resolution to be
????*? asks indorsement of tn*? propottal ;
of th** American Federation of Labor to
convene an International ? on fere nee of
labor Ht the ?aine Unie ?vu! ?.lai*?- a8 that
of the peace commiasion meeting.
A significant wetion. Indicating the
trend ?f thought of one bection of the
working ? lapses, waf t.ik? m y eft* rdav b\
the Woman's Labot league, which
adopted r?solutions against the militar;?
service hill and welcoming peace media
tion. The resolution? also favored the
establishment of an international arbi
tration court.
Fear? for Frana* Joseph.
Zurich, Jan. ? ? 'nf irraatlon fron- a
high Austrian sour*??**, fiate? that Ktn
peror Franc:? Joseph lias a high fever
and that the physki&na attending htm
fear that complication* may ifsu.t lrom
the ?ttack o? bronchitis from which he
U suffering.
GERMANS AND ALLIES
IN FIERCE ARTILLERY
BATTLE IN FLANDERS
Teutons Apparently Attempt to Repeat His
toric "Drive on Calais"?Entente Powers
Challenge Effort With Great Energy.
DUEL RAGES ON YSER FRONT
German Works Southeast of Boesinghe Violently Bombarded
and ?Serious Damage Inflicted?Teuton Birdmen
Shell Dunkirk?Nieuport Stormed.
tarriat Cable t? Tk? Wmklasts? ttrraia
London, Jan. 25.?The Germans and the allies are at {Trips k
Flanders in one of the most gigantic artillery duels in history*. An ap
parent attempt of the Germans to repeat their historic "drive on Calais*
in the fall of 1914 and the spring of 1915 has been challenged br th<
allies with all the energy of their months of accumulation in munitions
At only one point has either side essayed an infantry attack. Thi!
was near Neuville St. Vaast, where the Germans attacked on a 1,600
yard front. The French trenches were shattered, small captures o:
men and guns were made, and a section of the French first-line trenches
were penetrated, but counter attacks again cleared the tumbled work?
and the French maintained their position. .
TURKS SEEK
PEACE TERMS
Heir Apparent and Officials
Said to Be Looking To
ward Negotiations.
By C. F. BERTELLI
Spartal Cable la Th* Waahlaarto? Hrraal
Parla, Jan. ?S.?New? received In Pari?
this afternoon that th? b?lr apparent ot
Turkey 1? aeeklng to brine about a aap
arat? peace tn oonjencttoc with high
Tur-kUh officials directly Irmplra-d by the
Kaiser ? secret agent? has created a real
sensation The beat Iniorrned Pari? cir
ci?? give entire credence to the aeaaa
ttoosl r?*>art frasa th?? ??t.??rn marra
?pondent of the Pail? Tempa and fimi
confirmation tn the following ?aa-nltlcajit
circumstance? :
First?The abandonment of the Tur
kish expedition to Sues which they aay
cannot occur thl? year becauae the rail
road for the transportation fur troop? ?
cannot be built before the hot ?eather
Second?The abandonment of the Turk
and Bulararlan offensiva* al Saloniki.
Third?The admiasinn by 8?s*reiary of
the Treason ??-???? .-?*.;. hi ine Reich-,
stag that Germany? financial situation
la precaiioua.
Fourth?Tbe quartering of M,?*M Ger
men? In Conatntlnople to check the Im
minent revolution.
The closest students of events here
point out that Turkey ha? lang been a
dead weight on the Kalaer's hand?.
The bankrupt Ottoman empire Is only
able to uphold Its end of the war as
long aa Germany contributes the ?
money for troops snd munitions.
French critica now point out that !
Germany cannot contribute to Turkey j
any longer, proof of which 1? contain??! '
in the Inability of the Turk? to pro- ?
ceed against Sues and Saloniki with. ?
out Germany's help, which Helfferlch? ?
?peech indicated would not be forthcom
ing.
Furthermore, the beat Informed French
men say the central empire? are increas
ingly alarmed at the growing menace of '
the Russians on the Gallclan front. They !
cannot afford to squander the ?lightest ',
reaourr? of man. money or arm? on Tur- ?
key ln the face of a Ga Urlar ertala.
Rtanlng with a bembartmnt ?f
Nleuport. at th? mouth of the ???t. by
the German batten??, th? art tiler? ?Ml
hot spread along tb? ?rhol? of th? Yea*
front ilmoii to Yprca.
The Kreuch artillery, act!?? In roe
c?rt with th? Brltlah. ton?, carried ?sat
a violent bombardment of tbe German
work? ?outheart of BoMlncbe. Infllr-i
Ihar ?erloua dlmaffc. ?ay? toaurht'e
Parla rotnmunlqn?.
Germai? ahell hr? ha? daetroyed th?
Templar Tower and Cathedral of Nleu
port, which tne Germans claim waa be
ine used br th? alile? a? an obeer.-?
lion pon.
? ? ?a.?.?, flbpll Msstlrl,
Behind the allie?' Un?? Gorman ?rst
tora bombarded Dun stirb, half war
alona; the roaet between Nleuport mmt
Calata, killing ?Te pertsona and wound
ing throe. Od? of tb? eerr-aa*? ?irtlasi
?seas mretemfht down At tmA nortbaaat al
rtstvfatrX.
Neacy. often the tarare t of he???
?lace runi* of tbe Germana. Wa? again
bombarded tMa moron?* br Gaimaa
long-rature piece? and boatti? aviator?
Tar German aeroplano? ttlreppod a
number of bomb? without dan??*?-?, but
the artillery bombardment reaalted la
tbe wounding of two per????, accord
ine to the Preach report
Tbe ofhciel atatrment iaeued m Parla
tonight aa>? In Belgium our artillery,
acting ln concert with the Brltlah arti -
lei?, carried out a violent bombardmoni
of the German work?, infllrtlnaj ?erioua
damajre Two German aeroplane? thia
ro*-?mln? dropsied about fifteen
Dundirk and II? ?uburba. Vive
were killed and three wounded
In Artoir. there w?? very Itvely can
nonading eaat of Neuville and la tao re
gion of Vallly. wlier? our fir? reduced
?several German batteri??? to a?ant? North
or the Alene we dlapero?sd an Important
convoy In the region of Craonne
"A heaw German battery wMeh tried
to ?hell the bridge at Berry a? Bac waa
damaged by a ?hot fmnt one of our large
caliber guna. On the heigbta of Meuoa.
In the NouUly "sector, a ?small Gormar
detachment which tried to approach trur
linee after a eplrlted bombaidmeat aaaa
??ally dl?peraed bv our Hr?.'*
Art-eft America*! in Lirerpool.
LJverpool. Jan. 35?A number of Ame?
tcan? have been arrerated hare char-awe
with Mvlng In area a In which ttmeAgmar?
have been prohibited, and wtth regtater
ing themaelvea aa Brltush.
Ballet Russe Will Tame Its
Shows to Suit U. S. Prudery
Satyr Will No Longer Be So Sportive with Veil Dropped at
His Feet, and Negro Slaves Will Be More
Decorus ^ hen Sultan Leaves Harem.
ftfWCul U "??? Wfcrbinft?? Hrrm.d.
?9$? York. Jan. ?Ti.?Americ?n prudery
triumphed over oM world art today when
the management of the Ba?et Russe
agreed to eliminate certain object lona ble
feature? from the program at the
Century Theater.
The - hanse? wer? derided - on before
Chief Magistrate William McAdoo. * ht?
aat ?? reiette??critic in the controversy
Present at th*? ?* onfereiw*e were rep
resentatives of the Ballet arid members
of the committee appointed by Third
Deputy Police ('ommlaisloner Dunham
to view the perforaient: es after numerous
complaints had been received.
Heraafter the cloven-hoofed aatyr,
i'i'iyui fleure In L'apre? M-oi d'un
Faun, will not be so ?portive with the
??/ell which ia dropped at hi? feet by
one of the faun? ?.ther ?il! the ne^rre
slaves bec on.?* qaite so d?montr?t'? e dur
ing the absence of the sultan In th*
hart m ?cene of "Scheheraaade."
It was these two festur?*s which ?roused
ob>ection. Tliat eithpr should prove
offensive 'ame ae quit* a shock to the
super-artisUc temperaments of M Bmrwrn
de Dlarh 1? ff ?rrand ?leameur ef tbe ballet,
and lAilov Tchrrnlohea? a. tb? pramlar
d inoei
"One test of a cr??t waark af art ka la
It? universal appeal. Via bave barns
praised the world over for our perform
jnoe of The I**aun' and 'Schaber? ?afaa *
That ?ae ever ?rave ofTcnae mas ?mknoavn
until we reached N?w York-"
Tcharnlrhwa was speaking To Bar ?AMI
her ke.-e.ly rOsoO temperament wa? rot.
tie* ?jroald be putttn* It ll-rhtJy whau
?h? had to aa) ?raw said In rreanch. Ger
man. Bu?Un and wary tittle
liberalrar a*?.-? tua ted with calai
And Isacmrde Massin?maio? you
he wasn't peeved Ta?? It from oae
tb? presa allenta. Maaam waa ao
that be ?tr nothing all d?> tods? Tb?
Osar? private brand of caviar anc Ma
own distillation of voajka would weat haw?
tempted M ? ?? ? ?-a?T? tr guottn? tbe Pub
licity mei?
"It som, read? throa?rh the
nonahl? matter raan be found.'' m?
"Yet nc <an? has ever ?aid that Urn
?? nat a I ?o<a book. The same ?1?natio?
ran l?e hl-rUec t? tr.? x?. '?armsur? of Ima)
ballet Russe "
