v-v }
RIGHT HERE
IN RICHMOND
AUtoctivc Homes (or Sale or to Lcl.
See I .-D. Want Pages.
jHidjtnoni*
?????????
'
RIGHT HERE
IN RICHMOND
Every Metropolitan Advantage for
Newcomers?See T.-D. IVan'.s.
66th YEAR
VOI.I'MK IMl
M >i in.it nr.
RICHMOND, VA , WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1916.?TWELVE PAGES.
" r % iV"l?M?C LO U D Y
PRICE, 2 CENTS
APPROVES REPEAL !
OF JUDGES'PENSION:
' i
House Committee Rccommends
Bill With Amendment Pro
tecting Judge Keith.
TORRENS MEASURE REPORTED
Browning Introduces Antivice
Statute Embodying Drastic
Injunction Feature.
I'. y a divided vote, the llount* ? *om
mlit.ee fur Courts of Justice reported
favorably yesli-rtlay t iio hill Introduced
by llelegate Buck. which provides for
the repeal of the net passe 1 111 11?14,
providing pensions for Judges of th?:
State Supreme Court of Appeals upon
' retirement after twelve yars of "in
tinuous service, and after they have
reached the ap" of ?-??v<nty yev.
Before voting to report 'he measure,
however, the committee engrafted an
amendment which provides that the
repeal shall net apply to Supreme
Court JudgeH who retire from service
during the year* 101'* <tid 1M7. With
respect to these, the t itrm"? of the art
of 1!M4 remain In full foree awl effect.
1 The amendment will protect I idjre
.lames Keith, who will retire Feb.
riiary 1. '.''IT, and who will be succeeded
on Hie hench by lodge Krederi''K Wll
m?T Hms. of I.oulsn.
ACT IIAS KVCOI Ml.HI.I)
MICH H(I*TI I.IT \
The act providing i<i.s!ons for re
tirincr Judges of the Supreme ''o irt hap
encountered hostility In many quartern,
and It was looked upon a1 curtain long
before the <?eneral Aff.?m)il;. c<>ri\ en?-."i
that .?? determined eff<.r' will he m;*de
at th" present session to have the law
repealed. i: is repotted unofficial 1;
that the vot- o:i '.be r?pe:?" Jih* hill in
tl ' committee was v '?> .V
Advocates of tb< Torretts !;<i.l i ' -
trntion i j 1 g.ilher<d In force in the
' liall of House of |?elerates ' ??:
nlzht to s ? brv :t ai j'nneit! before t'c
House Committee fo Coat's of !
Tie committer kiv ?.<? ?. i v.t n t h a ? be
Hi' net| I v J. t? ? !! g to a ft* I tli'-ll ' II;:'
will In .'ill prol'.i !?'' lty be repeated or
th'' 'V?or of the ilo v >e. t||,- 1.(11 Is
reached on ? h. c:ilend *? r..' ? ?>*<" 1
< ? i ru helml\;riv to report it with the
recommendation ?ha* it pas* i'nends
of the hill were 'inlte -iilv-. d wr- th:s
| prompt action lnterpretir.tr it a* ;.ri
Indication that * ?? tn' M?" r ?? w.l! i>i ?
. ? ? : n t? r little ?! i JTi. ul: v ? '.. i . r,,?.t.-d
Into la\>
ItllOlVMM. MIT'l'lt*.
\ NTl \ M i: MKASl UK
Tl:?? i ?;t rod'.i ?'jo!-. ?>?.? T'elegate Drown
ing. of (>r;<ul"1, of a drastb-e antivice
bill n'j? yesterday'*- distinct 'ontrlhu
t ion to the mora I - reform prnrrain
that !>? e-epc. ted to hold 'l e limelight
;,t the preset)t session ? f ti e General
Assembly. The bill i?, practically a
copv of the measure intrndu-ed at the
session of lot* I.y f1?|, irate I.and. of
Nottoway. It was referred to the new
Committee on Mora! and Social We'.
fa re
In t? provision for proceedings
against "he owner of property used for
Immoral purposes, as well as the lessee,
the h!l! resembks closely the law under
which the segregated district was abol
ished two years a so in Washington.
I' C if it becomes law. drastic means
will be provided for the closing of
every improper resort in Virginia,
whether or not such place has in the
past been free from molestation by the
police
DP.ri.AHKD TO II n \ITSA\CK*
WHICH >1A V UK KI>
Th" bill declares the establishment,
construction, maintenance, ownership,
occupation or lease of any house or
building used for recognized Immoral
purposes which are specifically enumer
ated a nuisance to be enjoined by the
courts
Wherever such nuisance is kept, the
bill provides, the Commonwealth's at
torney, the Attorney-General of the
State, or any responsible citizen, may
maintain an action in equity in the
name of the Stato to perpetually enjoin
such nuisance, the persons conducting
it and the owner or agent of the build
ing or ground on which the nuisanco
is situated. If satisfied thai there Is
ground for suspecting a violation of
the law. the judge of any court, the
hill provides, may. upon petition, grant
? temporary writ of injunction, tho vio
lation of which is to be punished as
conl etnpt.
Trial, it is provided, is to be held
promptly, and If the nuisance Is estab
lished, an order of abatement is to he
entered as part of the Judgment. The
court will thereupon direct the removal
from the building all fixtures, furni
ture and other property used In con
ducting the nuisance, to be sold in the
manner provided for the sale of chat
tels under execution. The abatement
order will close the house for a year,
during which time any person entering
or using the building so directed to be
closed will he punishable for con
tempt.
II\VM:II MAY (ilVR IIOMI
TO A IIA TIC Xl'IS A M H
The proceeds arising from tho snle
of the chattels, it is provided, shall be
applied to the payment of the costs of
the action and abatement, and the bal
ance, if any, shall be paid to the de
fendant. If the owner pays all costs
of the proceedings and files a satisfac
tory bond, guaranteeing that he will
himself immediately abate the nuisance
and prevent Its re-establishment for
one year, tl*? court, the bill provides,
may cancoi the order of abatement as
to the building only. The release of
the property tinder this section, it is
provided, shall not, however, release
it from Judgments, liens, penalties or
liabilities, to which It may be subject
by law. .
A final coot ion provides that the
attorney for the Commonwealth, or
other attorney representing the prose
cution for violation of this statute,
(Continued on Fifth Page.)
For Preparedness
i
JAMES II. MANN.
TARIFF INVESTIGATION
BY NONPARTISAN BOARD
Formal Announcement 1?? Made Thut
President Wilson Favdrs t're
atlon of Commission.
IIOPFS !?*? )It SPKKDV ACTION
Peel* .1 listific*<l in Pressing f??r Knael
ineni of .Measure lleruuse of Pres
ent international Conditions and
Those to Follow After War.
WASHINGTON. Januarly ? An
ir ?. <'ii'-nt wan made to-night that
I' Wilson fnvots tin* creation
of .yti independent, nonpartisan com
? ..sf.ion. with broad |io?.rs to inves
t:nt?* tariff duties. tin- relations ! f -
nvceii industries at home an'! abroad,
iin'l tiiv *: 111 rt.'irin" an<t ? ommerclal
machinery of the world
Th.- 7'resident discussed his plan at
length to-ilay with Hopr<5e;ilitive
Kitchin, chairman of tint Ways ami
Means Committee. anu ask? rt that th<
committee consider it immediately with
the view of getting action during the
present session of CongressC To-mor
rn'.v he expects to lay the mattur l??fore
Senator Simmons chairman of the Sen
ate Finance ' "on,m it tee Later he may
address '.'oniTres" on i h-? subject, ai
m-niuht l*. was aid this vas
] mprohii i)ir
\\tt\ hi: rtiK.t.s jtstifikd
l\ VMvIMf FOR ?'OM\llSSIO\
Al'U v '.ijh ttie President lias prt-vlous
t.iliiti tiie position that the powers
of .t las Iff commission alr?auy wre held
l'V th-- existing guvoriiment bureaus, lie
told Mr. Kltchln he ft-lt justified in
prcs-.-lng for th?- creation of a separnte
commission at th.s time because <?f
unusual international conditions, and
on account of Interest the United States
will have In commercial adjustments
titer the present upheaval.
Representative 1\ It chin said he per
sonally thought the Federal Trade
Commission should he clothe<! with
whatever additional powers might be
necessary, but that he believed a ma
jority of the Ways and Means Com
mittee favored a new independent body.
Tho President made It plain h? did not
think the proposed commission should
he established with tho view of uphold
ing or criticizing any particular tariff
policy, but should be entirely non
partisan. and capable of gathering facts
without any political bias.
The President pi oposed that such a
commission would have such powers as:
To Investigate the administrative and
fiscal effects of customs laws now In
force or which may be pissed in the
future.
To determine tho difference between
rates on raw materials and those on
finished or partly finished products.
To investigate the effects of ad va
lorem and specific duties and of those
which are a compound of ad valorem
and specific.
To examine the arrangement of
schedule duties unrt tho classification
of the articles on several schedules.
To Investigate the provisions of law
relating to the tariff, and the regu
lations of the Treasury Department ap
plying to invoices, ond other rjuosllons
with application to the collection of
customs duties.
To determine generally the working
of the'customs and tarlfT laws In their
economic and efficiency methods.
wnn.n com.rct data
ON TARIFF ItKI.ATIONS
In addition, the President desires
that the tarjff commission would be
able to collect much data throwing
light on the tariff relations between
the United States and foreign countries,
the rates of duties imposed on Amer
ican products by foreign countries, the
existence and effects of discriminating
duties, the effects of commercial trea
ties end preferential agreements the
results of export bounties, and tho ef
fects of any special or discriminating
duties imposed by the United States.
The new use. of the tariff commis
sion proposed hy tho. President would
be to discover the possibility of estab
lishing new industries or developing
old ones such as the production of dye
stuffs. by the use of scientific and prac
ticable methods.
llnmnffril l>y Had Weather.
STOUNOWAY, SCOTLAND, January
25.?The Swedish steamer tlraecla,
from Baltimore, January i>, for Stock
holm. has put In hero, damaged by
severe weather.
XOIIFOI.K VIA C. ? <>.
Three fust dally trains leave Richmond
9:00 A- M-, 12 noon and 4:00 V. M.
Mann, "Little Navy" Advocatc,
Declares Emphatically for Ade
quate National Defense.
ADDRESS IS SIGNIFICANT
Better Spend Millions Now Than
' Billions When War Is
at Hand.
WASHINGTON. .Quinary 2 '? In a.
brief and carefully worded and at
times impassioned speech. Kepr
ilw Mann, of Illinois. tnlnorlt;. loader
of th?- House, to-day cume out ? ?ittphats
rallv f ot national prepa t edr;ess and for
nltcngtheiilr.g of natbinnl defei <? ?> all
along the line, as w? ? 11 as the upbuild
lr.k c.f home Industrie? as |>art "f the
pla n
While it has l>' i't? ui'.ders* ocl t
most "f the Republican* favored tr.'.y
and naw increases. until to-do" none,
of leaders had spoker on t; **
! subject. Consequently, comine*. a? it
did. o*; the i-vf of the President - <!??
f?:i?"tur?: on a pi rparedness-:-pi alsirir
tour, Mr Matin"? addre; m was regarded
a:- particularly sigr.ifi ant.
Mr. Mann's speech was ret anii-d <?
tl ? more significant froin t! fact that
: lu retofore. ho has hern regarded as
'opposed to military expansion. a:.'! ?a?
terounixed as "little-navy" advocate.
In the course of his remark-. Mr.
Mann ma<le the statement thar > e i?
garded war with Knuland a. tnor*
likely than war with Germany in th?
future.
Ml ST I'll IIP tit K TO-IIAV
ko it f.vr.vrs of tiumouiiow
Representative Mann r? i ??! he had
been recognized heretof"t" as opposed
to a lat pe stand:!.:; army a::d was
| properly known as a "little-navy man.
! "Hiit." lie said. "w..se men oui:ht to
look forwnid and prepared to-day
j for what may cotne to-morrow. The
great* st struggle "? the world is now
' points ''ii aii".on< all the ppvit nations
I of the world except the United Mates.
Ka'h side is not only fighting for its
own existence, brjt eacli sole fighting
to put the other side nut of existence.
\ Nothltm Iik?? it ha;- ever been seen be
: fore. No one knows what will result j
from the present war. nor whether ft
I may finally lead this country into a
| struggle for our own presi'rvation.
"I think the present conflict is liable
and likely to last for many years be
1 fete the mastery Is determined." said
'Mr. Mann, 'and It seems to ni'1 that the
j part of ?. isdon for lis i? to thoroughly
i prepare ourselves f"r what 1? ?s possi
ble inny ? onie."
This sentiment was loudly applauded
on the K?. pu I'ltcati side, apparently
almost unanimousl/, and by approxi
mately half the. rientocrats Mr. Mann
; wen*, on to say that it will be expensive
!to prepare for maintaining peace.
"Two ycats ago." In- said, "no one
would have: dreamed -f the possibility
i of the expenditures already involved by
i the Ktiropcan nations.
"We can liettei afford to-day to spend
! hundreds of millions of dollars, or a
I few billions of dollars to avoid war.
J than a few years later to have to spend
j untold billions after the trouble logins."
? said Mr. Mann.
Again th- Republicans applauded
! vigorously and the Democrats luke
; warmly.
wot i.i) srr.M) i.aj?t noi.i.vn
\\IIK\ THIH ItH.A I.I.V I OMKS
?'it is wise for lis now to commence
; our preparations, for we know that
j when the time comes we would spend
' our last dollar to defenti our homes."
Mr. Mann said we should increase the
i standing army, add to the coast forti
? fictitious and provide tin adequate navy
? to protect the seas.
i "I have more fear." said Mr. Mann,
f-of war with Kncland than of war
'with Germany. I think that we ought
jto provide these great measures of de
I fense as emergen y measures, and aside
' from the routine: not as a partisan
i effort, but in loyalty to our country."
! lie thouerht further that the upbulld
[ir.R of home industries should be pro
j vided. "so that in ease of becoming
j involved in war we can live within our
i selves.
j "If there ever was a time in the his
jtorv of our country," said Mr. Maun.
| "when we ought :<> invite and receive
j expressions from all sides, this is the
i time, sii that out of it may come a
j policy which will ennble us to uphold
j in the future our natiinnl honor and
jour modern elvlli/.atlor, which I fear
. ma> break down on Mils side of the
| water.
i "We must decide whether we shall
j take the chance of disaster or to pro
: vide now against that disaster." said
Mr. Mnnu in conclusion. As he took
| bis seat lie was greeted with prolonged
j applause on the Republican side, in
| which many Democrats .ioined.
SHUBERTS* ARE SUED
. _
j Mother of l.ate Clyde Filch Makes
Attempt to Collect Royalties
Sniil to He l>ne.
fSpecial lo The Times-Dispatch. 1
NKW YORK, .January 2,r?.?Alleging
that the Shuherts owe the estate of
| her son, the late Clyde Fitch, the'play
j wrljrht. SlS.nftO in royalties, Mrs. Alice
II. Flteh to-day brought suit in '.ho
Supreme Court against the theatrical
managers.
Fltcli adapted two plays front the
German. "Girls" and "The Rlue Mouse,"
and, according lo his mother's attorney.
Joseph M. I'roskauer, the playwright,
had an agreement with the Shuherts
which called for their sharing evenly
10 per cent of the gross after 3 per
cent had been paid to the German
authors.
Mrs. Fitch contonds that the Shuherts
did pay the 3 per cent to the Germnns
while the two plays were produced In
the hig houses, but ceased the pay
ments Immediately they went into
stock.
VIGOROUS REPLY :
10 NEWSPAPERS
British Government Issues Four
Column Answer to Daily
Mail and London Post.
EXPLAINS TRADE FIGURES
Action Is Taken in View of To
Day's Important Debate
on Blockadc.
l/?N'l)ON. January 25.? In am j.? if>;i -
of to-morrow's important d-bate
in the House of Commons on the block
ado question, th?? British COVdrilllli' I
to-day issued a four-column statement'
challenging ami refuting statistics re
cently published in the Pally Mail and
the rs? 5 n I'ost ronorrniiiL' what
thos?- newspapers linvt> declared the
lv.ig?-ly increased imports into the neu
irn! countries of Holland and Scandi-,
navin since the beginning of the war.
The statement is subjected to detailed
and minute figures covering all the
piound with the 1 lall.v Mail and the
Morning Post for th- purpose of show -
lug numerous case? in which errors!
have crept into figures and in some'
instances been ignored. Concerning
the Morning Post's figures on the
British statistics of importations into
Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Hoi
land. the statement shows that, ex-'
eluding imports for the Belgian Belief
','fimmittcc into Holland, the imports
of wheat and Hour together were
slightly lower in 1915 than in 1913
I >1 POUTS AUK It IC5THICTIOD
TO NOHMAI, (il'AXTITIKS
Concerning cotton, figures are given
showing 'hat very large quantities of
the staple were imported before the
full effect of the order in council wai
felt, hut it is stated that since April'
imports have been restricted to Hi'*
normal quantities imported before the
war. Thus, snys the. statement, the
imports of ih<* whole year of 191.1
were 73,7OS tons, and in 191.*. 310.151
tons For the period from May to
December, inclusive, however, the
figures, as given by the statement,]
are 49.139 tons in 1913 and 52.143 tons
in 1 91 j.
The statement says the Morning;
Post's statistics completely ignore the j
fact that in normal times all European'
countries obtain great supplies from
Germany and Russia. It is forgotten,
the statement adds, that Russia an
nually exports 3^0.Oftn bushel's of grain, i
which mti?-t now come from other avail-j
able sources.
The statement points out that the
Daily Mail's figures were all derived
from the Danish daily commercial!
paper. Borsen. It says the figures were;
greatly inflated b> the inclusion of
cargoes sent into tin prize court,
which, under agreement, concluded,
some months ago with the Danish ship-:
ping lines, to avoid delay, were per
mitted to proceed to Denmark for re-1
turn to England, or, in certain cases,
for storage in Denmark until after the
war under the joint supervision of
the shipping company and the British
legation. The Borsen also included in
its Denmark figures. the statement |
says, cargoes destined for other coun-'
tries, like Norway.
liAII.Y M\ll. \ VI) MOIIN I \ (? I'OST
STICK TO I'III: I It IdtOIMl!
The government's reply to the alle-,
gations of the Daily Mail and the;
-Morning Post concerning looseness in,
the blockade ngatnst Germany is the!
subject ot editorial comment in the^
morning papets While the Daily Mail'
and the Morning Post stick to their
ground and declare that the govern-'
rnent's statement deals mostly with tho
| side issues, other newspapers assert
I that the government's reply is ahso
i lutely convincing and unanswerable.
! The Daily News says.
; "There hns rarely appeared a more
| crushing exposure than that issued byj
ithe government in reply to the latest j
| Northcliffe scandal. The firebrands of.
ithe press have demanded that we (
| brush neutrals out of our path with ai
I strong hand, hut what would be the;
I position of entente allies if the vast j
j resources of the t.'nited States ceased!
j to be at their command?
| "The government's statement shows j
I (be present scheme of economic pres-j
isiiro is working on Germany with rnth-i
I less cerlaintv '?
i The Daily Phroniele says:
i "Anything more crushing Hi.in the,
I government's reply cannot ho imagined.
I The official statement shows the an-!
;iliors of the Daily Mail and Morning!
Post statistics made nearly every mis-j
! take that amateur statisticians could'
1 ma ke."
Til' Post in its e ditorial columns de- j
! feuds its Washington correspondent's t
? war-trade tig tires, concluding with a j
? repetition of Ms demand that the ad-j
| miralty. Instead of the Foreign Office,.
] l?- allowed (?> formulate the blockade j
I requirements "in order to allay public j
' uneasiness."
In conclusion, the Post declares that j
| the result of the Foreign Office's meni
i orandum Is that the country is in a
I state of dense confusion upon fhe most;
I essential element in the conduct of the.
? wa r.
a >ii:iiii'.t v i'i<oposai<
Wll.l, MIT lit: ACCKI'Tr.D j
LONDON*. January 25.?The parlia
mentary correspondent of the West-i
minster Gazette Rays in reference to
to-morrow's debate In the House of
Commons on the blockade controversy
that It can snfoly be said that the gov
ernment has no intention of accepting
the American proposal for a stricter j
blockade.
The correspondent forecasts that t lie
House of Commons will take the view
that a regular blockade would weaken
Great Britain's hands and Increase the
friction with neutrals, and that the
present friendly agreement with neu-1
trala coulu not continue. I
LAST WORD IS SAID
BY UNITED STATES
Settlement of Lusitania Case
Now Rests Entirely With
Berlin.
PROPOSALS ARE REJECTED
Lansing Preparing Note Which
Will Flatly Set Forth
Demands.
(Spci'la! to The Times-1>ispatch J
W \SIIIXitTO.V. January 25. The
United states to-day rejected tin- ?;or- ?
man government's proposal:; for settle-j
meiit of tho Lusitania case. Count von!
i'.ernstorff. ?li ?? (irrncin ambassador.,
was summnncil to the State I ?epa rt - !
ment i>> Secretary of State Lansing i
this afternoon and advised ??f this de
cision.
1 nim.'dia teiy thereafter Secretary!
Lansing began preparation of a com
munication to Merlin that will tlutlyj
set forth the terms* of agreement in
sisted upon l?y the United States.
??'oiint von llernstorff will be < ailed i
to tho State Department to-morrow!
morning to confer with Secretary Lan-"
sin? l??-fore the final terms of the com- j
tii'inication are decided upon. The (Jer-j
man ambassador will then cable the'
communication to Berlin, accompanying!
the communication with a request to!
his government for favorable consid-'
?.ration. 1
AM I.I. Il l\(i IV II VI.A NCK
IMU IIHI'I.V IS ItF.CKMIM)
The Lusitania question will hang in
t'ue balance until a reply is received j
trotn thfo Oerman government.
It was stated in the most authoilta- j
live quarters to-night that the ques-j
tion of whether the Lusitania case is j
to be settled r<sts entirely with Berlin i
Tli* United States has said the last j
word.
Kejection of tho flcrman govern* ?
ment"a proposals for settlement of tho1
Lusitania case was announced after!
President Wilson and his Cabinet had
given the most careful consideration
to them <tt a session lasting more than
two hours. The point <>f disagreement
arose over the language used by Cer
many in meeting the demand made In
the Lusitania note of July 21. that the
Imperial government "disavow the.
wanton act of its naval commander in
sinking the Lusitania."
TKXT OF tninil MCATIOV
IS CAIlEKlfM.v ta .VltUKl)
While the text of the communication
from Heriin was guarded carefully from
the public both by the state Depart
ment and tho (Jernian embassy, it may
bo stated that die Herman proposals
carried the following provisions:
An implied admission that the kill
ing of Americans aboard the Lusitania
was illegal.
An offer to pay full indemnity for
American lives lost, which was an ad
mission of illegality.
An expression of sorrow 'or the death
of Americans.
Assurances that there can be no repe
tition of the act in the light of Ger
many's pledges to abide by the con
ditions set forth by the United States
that no further submarine attacks shall
be made on passenger ships up?il pas
sengers and crews have been put in
places of safety.
An explanation that German sub
marine warfare in the war sono sur
rounding Great Britain was under
taken as a reprisal against the Illegal
British blockade, and that this pollcv
of reprisal had been given up to meet!
the wishes of tin United States.
Finally, that Germany accepts the
Invitation of ,he United .States extended
m he note of Ju.y 21. to co-operate
* it in achieving freedom of the
seas.
The entire disagreement is over the
first two clauses. The United States
wants an explicit, and not an Implied
admission of the lllegalitv of the Lusi
tania attack.
I MTKI> STATES WA VI S
ADMISSION OF OIII.K; ATIO.Y j
I Ite l nited States also wants more
than an offer from Germany to pav
Indemnity. It wants an admission of
its legal obligation to pay Indemnity
for American lives lost. * '
Failure of the Lns.tanla negotiations
at a time when i?ope.. were highest was
a distinct disappointment in official and
(1 ip 1 otii#it)(* <rinrt^rs.
Secretary T*<intdng presented an un
usually grave demeanor when he made
an announcement concerning tho Lusi
tania after his ronterence with Count
Mcrnstorff. The amoassador s bearing
was also prave as he left the depart-I
merit. 1 j
Secretary Landing made his i(?. j
nouncement in n few words, lie said: i
I have had an interview with the
?erman ambassador on the Lusitania i
ease and we both have agreed not ,o I
say anything about it."
Secretary Lansing {hen emphasized a ?
denial be had made earlier in the day
"f tho authenticity of a slorv appear
ing in the papers this morning:
"J said this mornlriK what I am going
to repeat again that the article in the
papers this morning was the merest
conjecture, and not founded on fact."
BURGLAR VERY POLITE
"e.itly Hindu filrl With Hope and Illlnd
foldx Her WHIi Violet-Scented
Handkerchief.
{Special to The Times-Dispatch 1
?VRW YORK. January 2o.-The story
of a polite burglar, who gently bound
her with a rope, blindfolded her with
a violet-scented cambric handkerchief
and, while apologizing, ransacked the!
bureau drawer, getting $50 in cash. I
was told to the police to-day l?y pretty|
little Marv Finnigan. fifteen years old,'
whose father owns a restaurant at 75
Fulton Street. The Flnnegnn family
lives upstairs ?
It was said the thief missed Jewelry
valued at J200 on top of tho ransacked
bureau.
1
Severe Reverse
for British Arms
_____ j
IK rt'imrlH from Turkish lieiiili|iitir
lor* lire riirrri'l, Ilie liritish fitrrm
in Mosnputamia MitlVrretl it jicmtc rr- i
verm* in lliolr omlriivor to roiioli the
hCNloKoil Iiki n of Kul-ol- Vmiiru. on
? In- I Isrl* lllvor. Nil mi* Mvonty milrs
oiikI i?f l\ at-el-A intirii Ilie 'lurks. In
cnntilcriilliickM, ilrovo the liritish
luiok sevrrnl miles, thr liatlor louv
inpr tin I ho Hi-Id iihnnl :i,(NHl tlonil. !
Tlio Turkish Iiiim'm nro declared In
lime been couipiirntI? oly sllirlil.
It ?*ns nflrr ?hl* IIkIiI. ivhirh
InilPil iU hours. tliul l.oncrnl
tyitiior l? iloolliroil In linvo roiitiesloil 1
nml nhtnineil n trnoo nf one tiny. In
ortlor I It ii ( llio ilotiil niltcht ho hurlr:!.
'I In* llrllNIi nilvtinoini: frnm Montr
I Hk. mi (he Nhutl-ol-lliii Ulvor. south
of K ii I-o|-,\ tuarn. toward Ivor tin.
nlsn ?rrr ouuiiicllcil tn rofroat be
fore ii Turkish attack. sjijn t It ?* rr
porl. lonvln? IOU moil ilonil. The
liritish reverse nl the (minis nf (lio
Turks, Itntvovor. In xnnion lull nll'set
hj Clio Turkish losses iii buttles with
Itussiiins In Iho iiolKhhnrliiiixl nf
Fr/erimi. V dispatch frnm I'otrn
g ontl asserts tluil, apart from (lio
cnNiiiiltlos in noliinl hnttlo, Iho Turku
lost llftj nlDcorn 11 nil ri.lllio nion tllkon
prisoner, nntl also ?cores nf innoliliio
Kims nml iiiiiuitilloM nf muni I Inns
en pi ii roil.
\llloil nt mi on hnvo nitnlu ilrnppoil
linnihs on Monnstlr and tilevccll. nnil
IIM? persons nro ONtlmntoil In linvo
hoon killoil or ?omiiloil in (ho Inllor
lovtii. The (>ormitnN hnvo ilrnppoil
o\ plosives from iilrornfl on Ilnnkirk. ,
where live porsnns were killoil. nnil
cm Iho nrrodrnnir at Xnney nnil fno
torles In Hneonrnt.
THOUSANDS OF ENGLISH "!
ARE LEFT BEAD ON FIELD!
I
Cieneral Aylmer's Kelief K.vpedition
to Kiit-cI-Ainnrsi Disastrously
Defeated by Turk**.
OTTOMAN rOHDOX STILL HOLDS j
Turkish Deports Tell of Three i
liatlles, in All of Which Itritish,
Were Driven Hack and Lost 7,000 '
Men.
[Special ?"'able to The Times-Dispatch.]
I .ON'DON, January 25.? General Ayl
mer's relief expedition lias been defeat
ed by the Turks with srre.it loss on tin
Tigris.
"Wo counted 3,00n Knglish doud,"
says :i Renter dispatch from Constanti
nople. quoting from a Turkish nlHolal i
report. This was the result of a six
liour Imttle in which all the liritish
attempts to break throusrh the cordon
of Ottoman troops around Kut-el
Aniara were repulsed
This battle was fought near Men-I
lahie. which is twenty-two miles east
of Kut, while the last battle reported
was at Sheik Said, which is only six
miles east of the beleaguered town.
In this earlier battle the ICngllsh lost
3,000 in killed and wounded, according
to Iterlin reports uuoting; Knglisli pris
oners, making ri.fiOil casualties in these
two battles.
s ki o mi i:x <? a a !?: >i i: v r
MIT SI) II ISA STII DCS j
A second engagement reported in to
day's Turkish oflicial statement was
west of Korna. This was not so dis
astrous to tii" liritish, although in their
retreat they left 1.000 dead on the tleid.
The significant statement is made
with relation to the battle at Meulahic
I hat General A.vlmer asked for one
day's truce in which to bury his dead.
The Turkish official statement fol
lows:
"On the Irak front, the engagements
continue about the Kui-cl-Amara po
sition. English forces coming from
Imam-ali-Garhi on Friday attacked the
Turkish positions near Mcnlahic, about
thirty-five kilometers (twenty -two
miles} east of Kut-el-Amara on both
banks of the Tigris.
"The engagement lasted for six hours.
All the Knglisli attacks were repulsed ]
by counterattacks. The Knglisli were
driven back several kilometers to the)
eastward. About 3.000 Knglish dead |
were, left on the battlefield. The Turk
ish losses were comparatively slight.
"General A.vlmer asked for n day's
truce to bury the dead.
"Knglisli prisoners state that the !
Knglish also lost 3.000 in dead and
wounded in the preceding engagement s |
near Sheik Said.
"The Turks attacked another Knglish i
detachment which was advancing west j
i>f Korna from the direction of .Monte- !
0k. The Knglish were forced to re
treat. leaving I0t> dead."
MA Ii ICS XO ItF.FKItKM K
to si i n si:vkhf. i.ossMs j
A Center dispatch from Delhi eon-j
veying an olllcinl statement from Gen-j
eral A.vlmer, while referring to the'
battle on the 21st. makes no reference]
to such severe losses as are reported!
by the Turks, but makes no claims fori
tlio Itritish. It says:
"General A.vlmer on January 21 at
tacked the Turks on the left bank of
tiie 1 igris. I he 1 urks were re-en
forced. Severe fighting occurred with
heavy losses on both sides. An un
usual rise in the Tigris Is hampering I
operations."
SWIFT A*IRCRAFT
Machine for Acrn-Miirliio So r* loo lie-!
signed In Miike Figltty Mile*
mi llmir.
M A Rltr.KIl KA I.MASS.. January 2 I
A new aerial machine, said to be the!
fastest yet constructed for aero-i
r arine service here or abroad, wi.sl
shipped to-day to the trial grounds at I
l onsacola, Kla. The machine, required
by contract to speed eighty miles an
hour in the air. will carry a 1,000.pound
load for four hours, If the specifications
are mot.
ARTILLERY DUEL
SPREADS ALONG
WESTERN FRONT
Germans and Allies Are at
Grips From Mouth of
Yser to Ypres.
SECOND "DRIVE ON CALAIS"
IS QUICKLY CHALLENGED
,
Only at One Point Has Either
Side Essayed an
Attack.
FURXCH TKF.XCHKS SUAT'l'KKKD
< 'ountcrnttacks 1'learTumbled Works
and Position Is .Main
tained.
(Special Cable to The Times-Dispatch.1
r-nXDOX, January 25.?The Germans
and the allies. .'ire s? t strips in Flanders
in one of the most gigantic artillery
duels in history. An apparent attcriipt
of the (icrmans to repeat their historic
"drive on Calais" in the fall of 11*11
and the spring of 191.i has been chal
lenged by the allies with all the energy
of their months of accumulation in
munitions
A i only a single point has either
side essayed an attack. This was
near Xeuvllle-St. Vaast. The French
trenches were shattered, small captures
of men and guns were made and a.
section of the French first - line
trenches were penetraterl. but counter
attacks again cleared the tumbled
works, and the French maintained their
position.
Starting with a bombardment of
Nieuport, at the mouth of the Yser. by '
the German batteries, the artillery duel
has spread along the whole Yser front
almost to Ypres.
\ 101.10 NT ItO.ll It A It IIM KXT
ok <;i:u.ma\ wonivs
The French artillery, actinic in con
cert with the British. to-day carried
out a violent bombardment of the Ger
man works southeast of Uoeslngho, iti
tllcting serious damage, says to-night's
Paris communique.
German shell tiro has destroyed tho
Templar Tower and Cathedral of Nieu
port. \% hlch the Germans claim '.va*
being used by the allies as an observa
tion post.
Behind the allies' lines German avia
tors bombarded Dunkirk, half-way
along the coast between Xieuport and
Calais, killing five persons and wound
ing three. One of the German ma
chines was brought down at sea north
east of Nieuport.
Nancy, often the target of heavy
siege guns of the Germans, was again
bombarded this morning by German
long-range pieces and hostile aviators.
Two German aeroplanes dropped a
number of bombs without damage, but
the. artillery bombardment resulted in
the wounding of two persona, according
to the French report.
The otllcial statement issued in Paris
to-night says:
'?In Belgium, southeast, of lioeslngho,
our artillery, acting in concert with
the British artillery, carried out a
violent bombardment of the German
'works, inflicting serious damage.
"Two German aeroplanes this morn
ing dropped about fifteen bombs on
Dunkirk and Its suburbs. Five per
sons were killed and threo wounded.
"In Artols there was very lively
cannonading oast of Neuvllle and In
the region of Vailly, where our Are
reduced several German batteries to
silence.
"North of tho Aisne we dispersed an
important convoy in the region of
Oraonne. A heavy German battery
which tried to shell the bridge at
P.erry-nu-Bac was damaged by a shot
from one of our large-caliber guns.
AltVAXrrc OF GKIt.MANS
IS KASII.V IIISPICIISED
"On the heights of the Meuse a small
Clfiiriinn detachment which tried to ap
nroach our lines, after a spirited bom
bardment, was easily dispersed by our
fire.
"In the Vosges our artillery fired
with good effect on tha German posi
tions at Mtihlbach and Stossvihr and
the casemates of Pain-du-Ohenes."
The British report of operations to
night says:
"To-day we carried out successfully
artillery bombardments near Ovlllers,
1 .a Uoisellc, Kebrlboux and Boesinghe.
Near the last-named place we exploded
a bomb store in the German lines.
"The hostile artillery has shown
activity near Commecourt, about Loos
and at llooge.
"Aircraft of both sides have been
active. \Ve maintained our supremacy."
III.IIMN I HON I US nKPOHTS
OF MON'l'KNI0(iltIN IM'PI.ICITY
{Special Cable to The Times-Dispatch.]
BFBI.IN. January 25 (wireless via
Sayvllle).?The following announce
ment was tnade to-day at the general
headquarters of the Austro-Hnngarian
a rmy:
"All foreign reports about new com
bats in Montenegro are inventions. It
is confirmed that King Nicholas has
left his country and army. Up to the
present it has not been ascertained In
whose hands the real government
rests, but this Is completely without
importance, so far as the military re
sult of- tho Montenegrin campaign la
concerned.
"The disarming of the .Montenegrin
army progresses without Interruption,
At all places where Austro-iiungariaa
troops arrive the Montenegrin bat
tailous, undor command of their of?
fleers, surrender their arms without
delay. Numerous detetachments from
districts not yet occupied by us h&v?
