he
WAR REFUGEE ARTIST
PICTURES BELOVED BELGIUM
Remarkable series of etchings by Van der
Loo, the great Belgian etcher. First of
his work to appear in this country.
IN NEXT SUNDAY'S SUN
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudy to-day; to-morrow unset
tled and colder.
Highest temperature yesterday, 54; lowest, 38.
Detailed weather, m.i'll and marine reports 011 pace 1.1.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 148.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1916. coVVt(0m, me, bV the sun rriminl n,i rubming Aoctnnnn.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
SSUVL
WOOD INDICTED;
HOTEL BILLS GO
TOJURYTO-DAY
E.v-hibliu Sorvicc Member
Accused of Asking
Bribe.
MI.TMOKB VOUCHERS
KKADY TO JIK SHOWN
Thompson Not Accused,
lint Committee Official
Faces Clinrges.
LlXilSLATURFi SHIFTS
FltOXT OX INQUIRY
Assembly Committee Now
Fa vol's Free Hand for
, P. S. Investigators.
An indictment was returned yester
day against Hobort Colgate' Wood, for
mer I'uldlc .Service Commissioner, on
t iliargc of soliciting u $5,000 bribe
from th Cnlnn Switch and Signal j
Company of Swissvale, Un. The in-
th. tmc-nt crown out of disclosures made
N fort- the Thompson committee, In
vcstlgatlm; tho Public Service Coin-m-ssion-
Wood plciided "not guilty"
and was admitted to $7,500 ball:
..,...,.,...,,.,, ............. """";
i. indictment usainst some person ,
ft.- ... I I..... ...I.. ...lit .....
connected with the Thompson com-
mitten because of tho Hotel Hllttnorc
..... .,.i, ,...i.,t.,.,i ,,.. i, r, I
annum. Ihc oilglnal vouchers.
tlioiisnt to lc ilcstroycu, were union i
je-tcrday ""' "nular quaiterly preferred dividend
. . .. , , . mitalllng a dlshuisemctit of $6,301,921',
senator Cruiso 1-. riiompson Is toMlh ,hc lliu,t ,,Mt Cre wu a Uet)ctt
be permltteil to come hack to New,
York city and pursue the "warm trail"
h assorts ho was following Into public
i-rvico corporations for a month
longer. The Senator and his coinmlt-.
,,, i... '
Ue will return to-da.
Assemblyman Mctjiilsllon's; resold-
t!on for an Investigation Into the lsok-
krepuig of all commlltci'S lm been
turned Into a measure which may aii
tlor.e the legislature to pass finally
en all disputed bills.
Hamilton Klsli, Jr., Progressive As
sembly man from I'lituam county, nt-
M.ki-1 tllf Committed on I'rlvUcges showed 11 net income of $ I0.sr:t,l 1 ;, with'
1 -i,i ..-hi..i, i.n .i..,.i-e,i tvwia balance of l:i:,,GS3.3:3 available for
and Mentions, SVI1KI1, IIC lleel.irCtl, VV.IS , .. , ,.-,.i,,M ,,rl..r In
a dlt-graru and a dishonor to the State.
He said thn commlttep find spent
I'O'iO in eisht days.
R. C. WOOD IXDICTED
OS lill I UK CHARGE
s-lt.lilln s,.rl (.f. ('tininilsalnner
VCfl.seil of SnllfltlllHT !.-., OOO
for t'mitriii't,
Poimer Public Service Commissioner
Ilil"t '"olg.ite Wood was Indicted yes
terlav on a chatgn of having solicited
a h- iie for his influence n swinging to
tre t mon Switch Mid Signal Company
0' Smssvale P.i . the contract for I11
u I 1 g :i signal system In the Centre
foil . ,p of the new subway system.
He i .e., 1 -I not guilty and was released
It. J" "'i bad
ihe I). c ember Grand Jury, whloh had
I. en nintlniied to Investigate this
cn:.r,e has bet 11 examining winneeses
I'l'-einls-r 1.1, when Sidney G,
Jon M
I n: m
Cl'isu ,
tome 1
f.niief vlcc-piesidt-nt of tho
innaiiv. made his startling din-
.ef.m the Thom.i-on legislative
er.m the I homp-on legislative
l's" vttntney Perkins began the
It k.,i Mm. hut hesitated to ask for
an In , mei.t In;, allse of his theory that
J'.hns
a 'I 1
irie-ef
blvi
,(.
tv e
II 01
fr. e.
I .
he ..
i
lis ,111 accomplice of Wood
1 ol'oiativo tt'sllmouy would
' -ccsrarj. ihe theory of
The theory of
V Swam, is that Johnso,, ,
' '. ....ompllce and also that .
sifh. i.nt eoilobor.itivo teall- I
e f-.d. among oth. rs. that I
T'tivis II. Whitney of the'
v.. c.oiiousioi, .eiin.i .1,..
...... , ,,,.11 i.lllWl,ni.i.-i.-,, t, mr mihmi me .-1J..-
od thai Commissioner Wood, Tho following table gives the earnings . eVfr lna(le for nny snKll! (URrter
ihe decision In thn Ontrojof tho United States Steel Corporation., lp m,)rovement hno been achieved
ntraet mallei bn referred
V.
Mui'lUeeu of General Sessions,
- .. I the hiilletin.nt. Imhiii-iI 1.
1 '..11 lor Wood's arrest lm-
-..11 ,..-,.,1,1 .,n rn i-.i
it.imluMliinne. iir'niiniii.i nle.l I
.1 VI P.-.i'ii. ,.r l!.n,.h(l..l,l X, I
1 v
r . v
ri 4W
H;,
Ku ..
h -rr.'
n-.
.i.-ilere,. Ills counsel pleaded '
f' bun with Icavo to with-1
I this plea within a week,
is fuinishul by thn National
' Tj.in. Neither Mr. Wool nor
' w.uld coinniunt on the Indict-
I I'leuraff Tol.l Story First.
i 'i I'ptegriiff, president of the
i and Signal Company, first
' ') of thn alleged attempt io
-loi iison ciinllruied what Upte
poii.li, as did Col. Jlcnry G,
'.rriiir president of tho company;
M. ''lino and H. O, Levinsohn,
l'i .
I" ,.
tr.or
I'rr. it
.lm ,.
i , t
-l i s.'i n-siillcil that while tho award
rf signil coutiact was pending In
I'" ''UI, Wood, the hearing Com
r.sv ,,.i, Miminoned him to 43 Kx
'l"go i.Iii' e which was Wood's placi
'' ntss liefotii his appointment.
" " ' bed the (viiiilltlon of tho of
d young mail employed thero
" 't.i.' a.-krd In leave. Ho testified
'tin talking over tho situation
ho Commissioner the latter hub-
I to him that his Influence, If
Coiifliuud on ,naf I'agt.
U. 5. Steel Common Again
Pays 5 Per Cent Dividend
Old Basis Is Restored on $508,000,000 of Stock Quar
terly Report Shows High Record Set in Huge
Earnings of Corporation.
FINANCIAL CIRCLES CHEERED BY THE NEWS.
Tlie directors of tho United States
Steel Corortlon did yesterday what
Wall Street ha been hoping for weeks
that they would do yet fearing that
they would not. They returned th rcgu
l.ir dividend payments on the $508,000,
000 common jttoek of tho corporation by
the declaration of a dLsbutacmctit of 1U
per cent for tho quarter ended Decem
ber 31, 1915, thereby placing tho com
mon stock on a 5 per cent, per annum
Inula onco more. They also made pub
lic the earnlncs for the quarter, tho lat
est In tho history of the corporation,
showing a total earnings for the three
months ended December 31 of $51,232,
788, or $5,729,081 In excess of then of
any other previous quarter. In addition
to this they announced that the Steel
Corporation has on deposit in banks
$105,000,000 In caah.
Following tills announcement Wall
Street had no doubts that tho United
States Steel Corporation had come back
Into lu own onco more, that business
was booming, that all the rumors of big
orders at high prices and nri Improved
outlook for tho future were true, and
from otllco boys to bank presidents
overy denizen of tho canyons of tho
llnanclal district went home last nlglit
feeling that all was well In the world
onco more.
Aside from being tho most rem.irka
blu earnings statement for any quarter
which thu Steel Corporation has ever put
forth It was ul remarkable In that It
showed conclusively how the steel In-
(lUMtfl llf the isillllt i- Ins rnlio, lij.cl."
flom H M.llo(1 of u. dei-itst depression
to ,, lf the ulMfsl ot irtM,,cr). A
year ago tho Steel Corporation quarterly
leport showed a surplus of only $69,-
,!:,7 available fur tho dividends on the
Jltcf,ne(I to,.k ,, ,va8 oMsv(, ,0 uip
into its lieasury to olitaln funds to pay
for that quarter of $3,6u6,2fc3.
vvnllnhlr for lilt Idrmls.
Vejl.r,l..i- tlit norlnr!. t Iii.i'm sfi, .r,i,,n.
foiled ,,.it after the payment of the
preferred dividend then- whs $29,6.i4,
473 available for dividends on the com-
non HllM.k (JUt of ,.arnlnB, ,or thJ ,,,,,..
i..r, against notlihu' a year ago. Thus
the balance available for dividends on
the cominun stock for the December
iii.in. i ".in -.iu.il u, u.;.. "ii
the IDOt.miiUHin Mock, or at tho rate of
.i. per iem. per annum u imureu i
on the basis of the last quarter's earn
ings.
llesliles i-howiK total earnings for the
months of October. November and De-
eeiiilier at S." 1 'tL'.TX s the coriioratlou I
tho coi iHiratlon's hl-tory was for the
three momhs ended June 30, 1 'J 07, when
total earnings of S 13,103,70 j were re-
ported, with a net of 37,7S0,I7."i and a
balance available for nil dividends of '
J30.S13..H2. At that time the surplui
after dividends was only fSl.99T.nst, out
of which II?., 300.000 was deducted for
authorized expenditures, leaving a
balance of surplus for the quarter
of $3,I87,0S0. Yesterday's statement
showed a surplujt for the quarter of
12.1, 300,092: Kor tho December quarter
a ytar ago the total earnlngo were only
J10.932.17U, with n net income 01
10,313,233, while there was a deficit for
Ilia quarter after declaring dividends
null- on 1 1. . nreferre.1 tock of lS.606.2li3.
Thu earnings or the litmett Mines
Steel Consiratlon for the year ended De
cember 31, 19U., Imsed uinn the four
quarterly rotiorts which havo been Issued
lorlinr the twelve months, do not make
as favorable a showing when compared
with those of 1913. This was owing to
tho great depression In tho steel Indus
try which existed during tho early part
of the present vear. but they form a fa
vorable contrast to those of I9H nnd
1912. The net earnings for the year as
..-.It 11... oio.rierlv statements were
1130 331.296. as compared with 171,-
(inn 1. 1011 n-ltli 11 iL.t.inee available
ft,r "all dividends of 17&.7R9.175. against I
$23,503,035 the year previous.
The surpliw after the payment of the
dividends was $5(1,569,493, as '
comitared with a deficit of $1,716,612 ror
thn previous year. This was equal to
9 94 tier cent, earned on the $508,000,000
common stock. The surplus after com-
iwixn - ... .... ...
mon dividends for 1915 was M .. 1
irKuVwvmtoMXt II B I
.l!"l'K-1i U..T"8i,M i IS 11, dends
J' "... .,:
in SJM. I M w".' $ -
"I1" '" m w,h ft deficit of
-1." "
fl.'iK. ''
., , . .,
Ilariilnns for Nnr -nr.
lor tlie yeii.a ui .u, ......
the i-arulngs for 1915 being based on
estimates from the quarterly reports:
1916. 1914. 19U
'rt. r,",r'V
,im..v.i.:m ;i.wi,49 137.1vt.3t.
-i... f.i i...
.. :o.oiv.v9
..10l.53J.W7
S,l",l,
U.il.tf.
3,710.915 1II,-.,:.3.M1
li.i JL sic fd If S
... -j,
. .. ".. ..
S Isis !..1T'?'
h!,,fa!,!i"'"'.
p'rel'd dirs.,.,
surplus ..
uPni""" '"
Xdj debit.. ..
surplus
7N.0.'i
TSoW.KS
M,;i9.677
ft M3.Mi
Sl.-.i9.77
tl,71C.l2
X2.M.c3
M.I19.H77
M,76.nri
J6.4 15.136
3t..169.Khl
7H7.S97
lfi.ono.ooo
K..-.'l3.07i
4l.:iS,7l7 tl..'7
, 41.316.717 IIM.',i7
Aim mr we.
SllfpllH 4t,:i!.7l7 ll.ts.Ml
After deducting exnensea for reiiewalj, re
i.alrs. maintenance of planta. Interest on
Fmmli and "xed chantea of aubsidlary com-
''iKqual to 9-91 per cent, nn $rS,:,Wi0 com
mon Mock,
'KoUovving Is the statement of the
United States Steel Corporation and lis
subsidiary companies for the quarter
ended December 31, 1915:
EAItNLNOS.
lleforn Ij-m In
ehartinr
Intereat on
aubsid
lary bonds,
0.-lotvr. 1SI6.. Il7.:ew,--I7
Nnvemls-r.nir. .".1I0
Ueeemlwr. 1913 IMKW
tereit nn
aumiil'
lary Ilalanreof
iKimla. earnlnffs t
1771. 93 IIS.M.H.'.I
7H9.3IJ lii.WIO.HiH
76'.'.l51 17,C77,98
Vt,D.1,05l $:,3M,:93
Total earnllir. after dedurtlnr s i
.11111 those for nnl nary repa r
and mailiterianee of plant, and 111.
iPrea t on bond, of th. .ubaldlary
companle i,.,7ii
! chaws and allowance, for dtv
preciallon. via.;
Sinking- funds on boiula at
ulxiidlary eotnpiiupa anil
depredation ami eatraor-
dinar jr rriilaiTnient funs M.rs.OM
Slnklnir timda on UnltiM
Stales Steel Corporallou
bonds
l.K9.TS
Net Income
Deduct: lntrrp.t Jor the
quarter on United Statu
Strrl CorporaUon bonda
outatandliK IS.1.;
Irt mlum iiardhlc on bonda
nilreniat.lo under alnk
liw funds SX.WI
CM;,;::
Add: Net kiiaoce of amidreharVpi
.'.ior-.s3
mrii,, iiiviuuina aujusiments
ot inrrotorirs and rarloua utber
a count TM.OST
Total US Ma '03
Ulvldends for the quarter on ntniMsi ' "
of the t'nltnl Mates Steel Corpora
tion, viz..
Preferred. IH, per ornt .... KSOi.wn
vuiuuiuii, I-. cr rem s.r.ii.TM
ir,l,T01
Surplua for the quarter.,
...I..3.2
Figures fop t'ompnrUon.
The following tablns uls.w tlio earn
ings of the United States Steel Cnmn.
ration for the December quarters of
1914. 1913, 1912. The Improvement In
earnings Is evident from the foregoing
iauic ior tne December quarter for 1M5.
. I'K. 1313. 19U.
lio..i;9 t3.KK.:ii ts.iM.o;
Nft earnings,
Skr fd c....
,...j7.' .fM-,7,9V 7.7.:H
llalatK'r .01C.i9
lnt & k fd U S
1.W'.3'
:;.JK3it
lsl ;.ltl,l 7.JM.K12
nal.UKp f.M.M 11.HA39H
JVefd divs . .. x,.m.i,9it s,3m n
siirpiut t:..:H i.r.!.i:
Common dlr . . . n.l'J.TM
turplu ... . ti.5t;.JM tl.tw.'.-vu
AJl debit. .. ...
Surplm ... r.,w.: ft.nni.'.raj
T.flt.MJ
M.ivr.Kn
.30,19
w.:ic.tfti
? 1 f."'l
i:!mi
7.110.979
eflctt
One of the gratlf)lng featuies of the
quarterly stnteineiu of the Steel Corpora
tion was that the earnings from October
until the end of December were on an
advancing scale. 'Hie earnings for No
vember after deducting thu Interest on
the subsidiary companies' bonds were
tlrt,ri;,1.s.4, those for November were
MB.f'W'l.'.ois, while those for DeecmlxT
were 17,677.9iii:. Kor the thiee pre
vious months of 1D15 they were: July.
I12.0I3.21S; August, 12,S69,099. and
Sevtcmbcr, I13,7'.i3,327,
Kor the first three months of the year
they wire as follows; January, M.is7,
151) ; Kcbruary, 53.038,378, and March,
I7.132.0M. Wall Street always likes to
see earnings going on nn Inci easing scale
and the fact that the Impioveineiil lind
been kept up during the entire .vear was
generally reassuring to the Niiancl.il dis
trict, for It was Interpreted to im-an tint
If the Dcctniber earnings weie larger
man uuy other month the improve-
llK., Btm K0.n(; llIt(i le (m.
ickir lor Dig profits In ism w.ii eveel.
lent. i
Mllteineiit li. .fudge IJnry.
Kollowlng the meeting of the bomd of j
tnreuois anil tne Hccir.ttlon of the dlvl-'
dend Judge Libert II. tl.ir. chairman of 1
the Sttel Corporation, in.llln lh,. fnllnw. I
mi, siaienieiu,
"The earnings for the quarter, amount-1
ing to Kil.232,7.Ss, are J3,72'.i,0!i I larger
than any previous quarter As usual
they were not made up until the day of
the meeting of the dlrertoit,. The
amount of cash in banks is about $103,-1
000.000.
The members of thn finance commit.
tee and of Ihe board of directors were
all In favor uf the declaration of the l1,
per cent, on the common stock."
Judge Gary added later to newspaper
men that the meeting was an entirely
harmonious one aiul that thero never
had ieen any lack of harmony on the
noaru or directors of the corporation In
view of the excellent earnings shown bv
me .-n.er 1 oriiorauou, tne resumption or
tho legular dividend rate on the com
mon stock and the nppirently rosy out
look for the future Wall Street was at
some loss to explain Judge Gary's slate
merit of n few weeks ago, which vvaa
consinereu at 1n.11 time as necniediy
IwMdinlstlc.
Thn last previous dividend of 111 per 1
rent, on thn common slock of the Steel
Corporation was declared for the nuar.
ler ended June 30, 1914, nnd left tho
corporation with a deficit of 13.319.2S7
for th.it period. In September, 1914, the
common dividend was cut to '-j of 1
per cent., necessitating n disbursement of
only $2,511,313, iih compared with tho
S t..3..3. . -M necessary to pay he full iU
per cent, on tho stock of that class. No
oivnieii,. 011 ...10 . ..... e..-s w.ie p. 1 1
for the quarter ended December 31, 1914.
nnd none has been declared since then
""' X'sterday.
Urtrt ftelv.it In tlie aiel lo.lnalr..
' ';,;;, do widch
his coun.ry due to the v a
has been little short of magical. A year
Ihe Steel Con.omn Ion's Inen.i.n ,vn
the lovv.t In Its history and the outlook
w.us so bad that It was felt necessary
to pass the dividends on the common
slix'k for the second time In the corpo
ration's lilstory. Yesterday the earnlnsa
announcement wns the largest the com
In the Bhort period of twelve months,
The dliectnra meeting of the Steel Cor-
porntlon nt which Ihe dividend was de-
dared was largely nttended by the mem
liers of thn hoard, Among thn prominent
bankers, llnanclers and sleel and burl-
I iirss men present wero J. P. Morgan,
George F. linker, Daniel G, Held, Samuel
Mather, H. C. Converse, Henry Clay
1-Vlck. Judge Gsti-, James A. Karrell and
Thomas Morrison.
WILSON DEFINES A HERO.
MlnV neacnera nml Const Gniirds In
the t'olenory.
Wasiiinoton, Jan, 25, Here Is Presi
dent WIIsoh'h Idea of a hen), expressed
In a letter to Secretary Lane:
"The rescuer of the Hurenu of Mines,
who braves the poisonous gases and
saves a miner from tleath i the coast
guard, who nt the peril of his own life
saves passengers of a helpless vessel
from denth ; the surgeon of the public
health service wlio Htops a dreaded
scourge In Its Inclplency j the engineer
who Bitcceeds In reducing tho hazards
of Industry to Hh men, and the man who
brings tibnut better conditions of living
among people ; I consider nil types of
the hero, who will be best regarded In
the pear future."
KOl'K TP.AINH TO FLORIDA,
ftrahnard .Mr I. Ins Ity. Hhnrteat, qulrkrat,
most attractlv. rout. Inquire lilt li'way,
Adv.
V
SPEND BILLIONS FOR
DEFENCE, SAYS MANN
Republican Lender Sees U. S.
in Hunger of Wnr After
Present Conflict.
FOIl BIG AUMY AND NAVY
Tells House Ho Looks for
Trouble With England
Before Clermnny.
Wasiiinotok, Jan. 23. rtepre'enta
tlv .lames IL Mann of Illinois, the Re
publican leader. In a speech In the House-to-day
expressed the opinion that the
United SlatiM is likely to bo called to
defend Itself at the close of the preent
war. lie urged Congress to make large
appropriations for the army and navy j
and enact legislation which will enable!
American Industry to supply all the Gov
ernment needs In the evernt of war.
Mr. Mann, who has heretofore opposed
Increased armaments, spoke with great
deliberation, and as he urged that the
question of national defence be treated
In a non-partisan way he was applauded
by members of the House. .
Mr. Mann startler Mime members
when he declared that war with Great
Urltaln was moro likely than a struggle
with Germany. I'ro-German members
applauded this sentiment,
"We can better afford," said Mr.
Mann, "to spend hundreds of millions of
dollars or a few billions of dollars In
ample preparation for trouble and avoid
it, If possible, than wo can to await
trouble and then spend untold billions
before we are finally victorious, as ne
would be,"
Congress la as aa I 1 Act .Nimt,
Mr. M-mii dwelt vWth -uphasU on his ,
argument that the Government should i
mobilize Its Industrial resources against
the possible I'nie tif trouble. 11
It was the duty of Congress tfli.iot
irKiPiuiiuii iik'm, ii.-,.ij in... ni'um es
tablish ndustrles on a basis th.it would
make this country absolutely independ-: decides must be carried out and Labor
cut for all supplies In case It should ever members of Parliament refusing acquies
be called upon to defend Itself. Mr. cence will be forced to resign or be e.
Mann expressed tho belief that die lluro-1 pelled from the p.irt. Its decision on
peait war would continue for years and the Government's conscription meatuie
that no ono could foretell what emerg- certain lis be overwhelming oppon
ency would confront the United States
when that conflict came to an end.
"I do not know, and no one knows,
what will result from the present war."
said Mr. Mann. "No one knows
whether tho aggression on either side ' compulsion In the workshops,
against our Interests and against our ' If the delegates decide that the
desires may lead us. perhaps not Into ' Lalstr .Ministers must withdraw from
this struggle, but Into some struggle the Government a split In the party
which may be the outcome of this one. , Is Inevitable and the three Ministers rep
1 doubt whether n paper peace between resenting labor In the coalition, Arthur
the two struggling parties now-, even Henderson, president of the Hoard of
if It could be entered Into, would be , lMucallon . William Urate, Parlla.
even the beginning of the end j mentaiy Cnder Secretary for the Home
"I think the present loiilllci is likely Office, ami Geoige II Itoberts. Lord
to last for tn.in) venrs before it la
neiimteiy netenninen rimer mat one
or the other Is the in.itter, or that either
can become in. i stir. And it seenn to inn
the part of wisdom for us Is to fairly
prepare ourselves for an poslble trou
ble which tua come.
"It ma) Ii" that we Hill have no
tenlllile I hmie not III llli u'.ir I .1111
neutral. 1 th-nk we otisht to maintain
peace at all har.ards. and vet the time
niiiy come when we will not have the
d.larinln.Hlnti ulielli.-r lie e iTi Minlnl.llll
peace or not, ht cause however much we
may desire pe.ue It Is not within our
power If we have to stand aggression
too far.
'Two years ago a billion dollars
seemed a very large sum of monev . No
one would have believed two years :i:o
that either Ungl.tnil or Germany could
carry on a war at the expens" already
Involved, amounting to billions of dollars,
vn.l Hie eml rr Hint Imlehteilness Is
not In tight. If we ate involved In no,
trouble we will be getting off cheaply '
with the cxpendltiiies for preparation.
If wo should be Involved In trouble the
money we spend will be worth many fold
that which we would spend after the
trouble began
Mr. Mann declared that Congress
should authorize a standing army of
230,000 or 300,000 men and vastly In
crease thn coast nclences,
1 do not Intend to discuss the details
at length. he said, "though I have
reached the conclusion myself that it
were well, as an emergency measure, to
Increase our regular armv to 23U.O0O or
300,000 or even half a million men: that
we should Increase our fortifications so
that our coast may be fairly, amply pro
tertnd. anil thnt we should iirovlit,. n
navy which shall be able to defend us on!
the sea.
IV"" Wnr Willi Ui.Klnnd.
"I have much more of fear In the end
of war with Bngland than I have of war
our duty as the managers of a great
i fm,n,r- " 11 IH'werfnl people to provide
for their protection agalns, possibilities
0 '"' . .
' " " 11 ' ""Km lo pro-
urn-
j v.l.n mere .e..t .iiii.-s, mill u OUglll
to be considered as an emergen.- mat.
tcr entirely apart from the ordinary said he was frightened only by the ex
routine or expense of government, lent of the exemptions granted bj the
without regard to partisanship or party Government Since his report was made
lines. four lists of reserved occupations had
"If Bngland and Germany and Italy Wn Issued, showing that no less than
can consider their propositions without lflO.ono badges exempting men from
regard to party lines, a country like military service had been Issued in four
ours ought lo be abiu to sweep aside ' da last week.
I together, loyal to thn country. In the
mere pa. ue.towi.iii mm ..-j- an to stand
effoit to aid the administration of the
government.
Mr. Mann then turned to the miestir...
of building up dnmestlu Industries as a
W "r 'Ihink."'"'!.. said, "we ought to pro-
vldo III Kime way for tho building up of
our home Industries so that If we be.
come Involved in war we may l able
to live within ourselves. And I think so
far an possinio the question should bo
considered entirely apart rroni partisan ,u" r'"" . . . .. .
opinion, In tho hope that In some way 1 Thirty-four rooms at the Grand Hotel
we may get together In tlle Inlerest of I have been reserved for the delegates,
our country if we should become Involved 1 The peace conference Is expected to bc
ln a struggle with h foreign Pow er." I gl wnrK wllhln a fortnight.
Urging n" Americans to unite on a 1 According to Mnyor Carl I.lndhagcn
plan of defenco for the common good 1 Ave nations will be represented In tho
Mr. Mann said he know many people I conference Holland. Denmark, Norway,
were of the opinion that there was no Sweden and America, Switzerland.
danger of trouble, present or prospective
but that no was convinced it wnH
tho duty of the Government to prepare
against nn evil day,
"Let us try to think of whnt Is for the
beat Interests of our country, what we
would do If we had each one the su.
preme uuthorlty and rosponsiiinty, If It
were placed upon each to determine.
whether he would take tho chance of
disaster In the future or prepare now to
prevent that disaster.'
Dallrloua neerroot Farm fiMisage,
Th.y eoat more try thain and aa mhr.
Slad. at th. run, Southber.uf b, Ma.,
Aiv.
EXPECT LABOR SPLIT
OVER CONSCRIPTION
3,250,000 Workers Will lie
Represented To-day at
Convention.
PARTY MAY HE WRECKED
American Federation's Plan
for International Move
to Re Acted On.
fprrM Cable fittpaith to Tint Sr.
I.ONPON, Jan. 26 (Wednesday). Tho
British lilxir party conference whloh
onens a threo day session at Hrlstol
this mornlnc Is expected to be the mot
vital convention In the history of tho
political labor movement. It Is the first
conference, slnco tho Iteglunltur of the
war, and the whole itollcy of the Labor
party has practically linen made oer
since then.
The delegates will !e asked to decide
not only the party's otllclal attitude
towanl compulwlon but also whether
the lalior representatives should have
Joined the coallthm Government and
whether they Khould be withdrawn Ini
inedlatcly. Three other questions which are ex
pected to cause serious divisions among
tl? delegates are, tne assistance that
latior has given to tho Government's;
recruiting campaign,- the party's otllclal
attitude toward the war Itself and Its
attitude toward the munitions of wnr
act.
The Government's compulsion hill has
created a situation which may split the
Labor party beyond the hope of re.
ent cry for years to come, although ef-
f.irta it T tin. mfHil ul.Mtiliml. njtlirn nr..
being made to prevent such a cntas- '
trim he t
J,,, , ".heT-rtV will
,,,, .,.. finr) ,,.,.,, nilni?
! f. ,ri,. .1-J nn?. ,!lt! J reprtsentltu.
W. (' Anderson, chairman of the
ronferenrr's Power Absolnlr
. , . , I
I lie conference is
Husoiuie. n ii.il " I
.. , , , . . i . . .. .
Hon Lloil i.eorge s hints at the need ,
of Industrial conscription owing to the
grave labor situation have convinced the
trade unionists that the bill Is Intended
to pave the way for the Introduction of
Commissioner of th Treason, will re-1
gu not onl from the Government but
from Parliament as well. They com
mitted a breach of the Libor n.irtv's '
constitution which provides that It shall,
not Join any Government, but they hold
tnat to leave the coalition, whatever may ell. llli.ne irom tne uiscussinns tne i.ici
be the attitude of the p.u a towanl con-1 that prior to the -ailing of the l.ui
scrlptlou, would be the greatest diser- t.iula on her fatal trip the Gemini Hm
vice labor i-oulil render to the nation i b.issy through advertisements in the New
in Its present emergency. , York vapcrs nnd b persona, messages
If forced to rngn fiom the organlza- advised the Americans In the passenger
tion it is ver.v probable that the three list not to sail on the steamer. Tills
Ministers will return to the Cabinet as.
Independent representatives of labor.
Xlny Take Muni, tin Pence.
one resolution to tie misled asks the
-ml .rsemelit of .1 proposal of the Ameri
can I'eder.illou of Iilr to convene an
international conference of labor at the
same plain and time as the meeting of
the iH-ace conv ehtloii.
The opinion of the conference on
foielgn policy Is lo be expressed In a
r solution framed with a view to ecur-
Ing future peace In Huiope. It de.
mands that Great Hritaln make no treaty
, w itii-iui tne sanction 01 i-aruainent, mat
her foreign policy bn no longer aimed at
the maintenance of the balance of power
In Uurope, but to the establishment of
concert of Uurone ami nn Interna,
tlonal council whose deliberations should
. Is- public, and that she propose as a
'..... ,i. ...... .. .......
drastic .eduction of armaments and the HerriHtorff to Mr. Lansing came under
prohibition of the export ot armaments. the classification of "001111110111.11 . one
As for the Government's attitude to- 1 upondenco.' which being of an entirely
ward the conference, they le.illze that Informal character and subject to with
there Is powerful opposition In the conn, tlravv.il or modification did not commit
try to compulsion, but feel safe, now ' the parties to the correspondence.
tlmt the reall. critical i-itiiiittoi. In t
Parliament Is over and the hill will be
a law within a few das. Whatever
decision the Lalsir party may reach In
regard to the matter, a general election
will not occur, nun wun 1nnustr1.11
trouble the Government Is fully
pre.
ESH3
1 '
lsnoN. Jan. 35 -'Hie co
' l tllr'M.IK,, .""..'.""M T'
I'oi.iIMiIkIiiii Hill Advanced.
compulsion bill
adlng In the
House or iirus tins anernoon witnout
Mouse ni i.rus 1111s ....err
UIVlSlOll.
U.11I Derby, dlieetor of recruiting,
BRYAN ACCEPTS FORD OiTER.
i
Will Serve on I eaer
I'rll.minl
-To
Go lo SloeUholin.
('""', ""1' '"7" SrV
Stockholm. Jan. J.., .Word was re-
celved to-day that William Jennings
llgS
, "" bad accepted memnersh p n the
American delegation at the pord per-
, maneni peace i. .... .....
Spain and Portugal have not replied to
invitations to send delegates.
Mayor Llnhngen gave no -Intimation
of the manner in which the conference
will proceed or the manner In which It
will try to reach Us object of bringing
about peace.
A despatch fiom Miami, Kla., where
Hrynii let It, Iw known to-d.iy that he
Intends going to Stockholm, hut not be
fore his speaking tour here, which be
gins III the latter part or Kebruary.
rtaehnral. N, C reatra or outdoer aparta.
Ratal Carolina. Holly Inn, Btnksrilra. New
p.a. A9
Germany Again Fails to
Meet Lusitania Demands
Refuses to Admit Her Submarine Warfare Is Illegal as
U. S. Insists Secretary Lansing Rejects the Pro
posal Another Conference To-day.
PETROLITE NOTE TO
Wasiiinoton, Jan. 23. Germany has
again failed In express terms to meet
the demands of the United Stated for a
settlement of tho Lusitania controversy.
Count von llernstorff was so Informed
at a conference which ho hail this after
noon with Secretary Lansing. While
the Ambassador expects to confer again
to-morrow with the Secretary, It Is not
now expected that anything approaohlng
a dollnlto understanding can be reached
until after tho embassy has received
further Instructions from llcrlln.
Though the latest exchange of views
ban failed to bring about an agreement
between the two Governments, both at
the State Department and at the em
bassy confidence was expressed that a
basis of settlement would bo reached
In tho near future.
It was learned to-night that tho stum
bling block consists In the unwilling
nuns of the German Government to ad
mit that the course of her submarine
warfare at the time the Lusitania was
destroyed was Illegal. Though willing
to pay Indemnity for the lles of the
Americans who went lost, the German
Government wishes to pay this Indem
nity as nn net of grace, rather than
upon any Admission of wrongdoing.
1 frltleel Point.
To admit that the attack on the Lusl
tain. i was Illegal, the German Govern
mem inntenns, wouni involve an
ill-
mission that the entire submarine cam
paign launched against llritlsh shipping
us a reprisal was Illegal.
It also would be tantamount. It Is
contended, to all admission In Into of the
claims of the American Government thatl
a neutral citizen surrenders none of his
rights liy travelling through a war zone
on merchant ships ot a belligerent
Power.
To this view the United Slates has re
fused absolutely to defer, lis ssltton In
till.-. 1,-i.iiri.i ii.m iuji mii-iv-n .mij
plnc, , i,fBllmlnB of ,he confidential
this lespect has not altered one lota
negotiations" between the Ambassador
nml the Secretary of State. Kroin tho
first Secretary Lansing has Insisted
that Germany should aiUnlt the Illegality
of the act and mako amends accord
ingly. Time nml again Count von llernstorff, 1
It 1 said, has submitted the propos).
tlou of his Government in var,iing forms,
but each lime the Secretary Iiiib detected
an effort to avoid the satisfaction de
manded, though with each successive
discus-don the Ambasttidor has come
nearer to meeting the demands.
iniic Concession Vlnde,
On Ies essential points. It was learned
to-night, the German Government has
made totn essoins Mie has consented to
! was objectionable lo the United Slates.
There is reason to believe also that
the United Slatts has successfully de
dared against Inclusion in the agreement
of tt suggestion that this country ha I
baigaiiied with Germany for u settle -
ment on the basis of a tuomise that the'
United Slates would Insist on a moditlcii-
Hon by Great Hritaln of her blockade
! policies.
If tills subject Is mentioned It will be
I merely by wa.v of lesMllIng the fact
that the United State Invited Germany
to cooperate In maintaining the friedom
' of the seas and that Germany stands
1 reau 10 no u.
In deriving to-day that Count von
' Hernstorff had presented to the State
I Department any note or other formal
communication from his Government on
the subject of the Lusitania controversy
State Department otTlelais explained
tin., the tiieiiiorandum from Count von
' Ilenlea Denintuls Mel.
I Indignation was nxpntsse.l !n official
circles over published reports to the f.
I that Germany had mm all the
I PENNSYLVANIA R. R.
TO BUILD BIG HOTEL
Plans llointr Drawn for 81. -
0110.000 Structure Op
posito Station.
'Hie Pennsylvania It.illrn.nl Is plan
nlug to mid a hotel to Its public service
enterprises Tentative plans are under
way to use the Seventh avenue block
between Thirty-second and Thirty-third
streets, across from the terminal en
trance, for a twelve story hostelry, to
be known as the Pennsylvania.
The building front or tne propose.!
, . i. ., ........ ...... r-
i , n hJ1 elUMl.r! ,h ..
"e ," b,ol.u, leaving room for a strlk-
- - d nakl)1B llH ow
Ing plaza and making Its own area fori
llirht and air.
The cost Is estimated at i.imiii.oiiu
and the structure Is to occupy 200 by
250 feet ground space. McKlin, Mead &
White, the architects, are drawing
plans, but the lallroad company has not
decided the other netaiis neyouu pre
paring to operate thn hotel directly
through Its own system instead of let
ting It out to a lessee. It Is expected to
have the entire work finished by the
time the now Seventh avenue suhwny
Is 111 working order.
ks Help for Armenians.
."pedal Cable KvpufrA to Tiir St v.
London, Jan, 25. Viscount Hrycc Is
nuking the Ameilcnn Government to co.
operate in assisting thn survivors of the
Armenian nation who have been driven
Into the Syrian and Mesopotamia!! des
erts. All the exiles, h. aaya, are dying of
thirst.
GO TO AUSTRIA SOON
Amerlcnn demands. Secretary Ianslng
commenting to-day on the reports said :
"You may quote me an saying that the
stories printed this morning were mere
oonji-eturfft, without foundation In fact."
Although thn t'ablnet met to-day In
one of the longest sessions In recent
weeks It was denied on all sides that
the Lusitania matter came up for dis
cussion. After luncheon Secretary Lan
sing called up Count von llernstorff by
telephone and requested him to call at
the State Department at 3 o'clock. The
two were In conference exactly twenty
minutes.
After the Interview the Secretary
merely announced that the talk related
to the Lusitania controversy, but that
both ho and the Ambassador had agreed
not to disclose any Information con
cerning It.
When It became known to-night that
the principal point upon which nego
tiations were now tied up concerned the
refusal of Mr. Lansing to accept any
half way ndmlsslnn that the attack on
the Lusitania wim Illegal, It was at once'
assumed In many quarters that on simi
lar grounds the State Department would
find It Impossible to at-cept the form
of Austria's offer to pay Indemnity for
the lives of the Americans lost on the
Anemia.
In her second reply to the American
deniandt Austria after setting forth the
facts of the attack as submitted by thn
Austrian submarine commander makes
the reservation that, on the basis of theso
Tacts, snu cannoi ne nc u inline ior
dam iges
Wllllnu to Pitt.
If. however, she state., the fnlted
State". tceaue of tack of materl-il
proofs, Is unable to determine for her -
self the clicumstances under which the
Amor c:iiih on the Ancotia lost their
lives, "the Itov.il Government In con-
! Kiiler.'itlou for the humanely regrettable
Incident, and by a desire to proclaim
once again Its friendly feelings toward
the Keileral Government, would be
gladly willing to disregard this gap In
the evidence and to extend Indemnity
also to those damages whose cause can-: with to a Bleat extent by the belllgrr
not be established." 1 ents.
Austria's lefusal to be held legally Premier llaminarskjoeld made his dee.
liable for indemnity Is based on the . hiratlon In reply to speeches by several
statement of her commander that had members of the lllksdng who dwelt on
the crew of the A neon it properly at- the deslit; of the Swedish people for con.
tended to the needs of the passengers 1 tinned neutrality.
nnd had not abandoned them In panic1 This was declared by the Pn-imer to
all could have been taken off the vessel 1 be the pulley of the Government
In safety before It became necessary fori "lint." he went on, -we repudiate Hie
the submarine to sink her. ! ''lea that our mllr) means we will nut
The position of the United States aliainliiii 11 e 11 1 r it 1 1 1 muter any riiinlllloiis.
throughout the subm.tilne controveisy, Is our fervent ilelre In keep peace nml
however, has been that under no clrcum- . ' ""r tint In work fur tills I wllli
stances has-a submarine the right to H mir inlclit. lint we must ul-u reckon
sink an unreslstlnr ship while paxen- ' Hh eventualities In ttlibli the nialnle
rers and other noti-coinbatants are still ' "mire of peace. In plle of all our effiiil.,
on Imnrd would no lunger lie prnillalile.
In the llcht of wh.it is known of the
Administration's stand on the point still
1 , i.lp i .1,- Lusitania controversv.
therefoie. olllclals find it easier to e.
ob.li. tl M..t that the State I iruirt-
ment in the next note to Austria will find
1 the Austrian proposals to the same ex
I tent unsatisfactory.
' It Is understood that In the next note
I to Vienna the United States probably
! will Include a demand for satisfaction In
', the i-.ise of the American oil ship Petro
Mite, which lecently returned to the
United States after a harrowing experl-
1 ' , . .. .. . ' 1
"'""' ' r.uie...
. . .
I .,,,- ... . ....
Accoidlng to atlldavits In possession
of the Department the submarine con-
imiieil sl.elllnc the American tanker after
she hnd hauled to on being warned1, and
that In consequence a member of the
crew was seriously injured.
During tile process of abstracting sup
piles from the Petrollte the Austrian suh-
arlne I'oinmaniler Is alleged to have
llclll ,, f tlle members of the Amerl
can vessel's crew as hostage, threatening
to kill bun if th. rettonte sought to torn Up ueaties and provisions of luier
e'C.ipe. I.11I1011.1I law w In 11 it is too I. lie to re-
At the coi'ference t i-morrow between store ov r .place un in
Mr. Linting and the German Amb.iss.i- 1 "Theie is tlsl, that daiiEernns re.
dor it Is expected that Secretary Lansing I strlctions of our lights .111. 1 llin itv.
will submit to the A1nb.1ss.1dor the lire- should we submit to ihcin. will viuhal.lv
else language which this Government re- remain In toice, In .1 mom a. tile f.um,
gards as essential to any final settle, j until the end of the war and even stih
ment of the controversy. With the re- i scqiicntlv nnd tesult In a dependence
eclpt of this memorandum the Anib.is- economical!) and pollilca.lv painful "
sador probably will forward its contents The chief di-senting loon 11, mi-swc
to Herlln, his next move necessarily be. 10 the I nl. i's si cli was tint of II..
ing delayed until he cat get .1 reply 'socialist leader HJilm.ir iliantlng, who
with fresh Instructions, ( ,i(W , ,,, , ;m,.r.m p,,i.- the sun
- J.itloti of the nation to th.. ginv. st pen .1
' WARBURG WARNS ON
WAR ORDER INFLATION
; Tolls- Credit .Mon of (inivo
Diuiiror to llnsinoss Aftor
IViii'o Has Conio.
iprvial i utile Hf'i-iti I' lo tr.,
Lo.xnoN. .Ian 26 i Wedi l'i v I i'tm
Paul M Warburg, speaking to 5rm Hrltish Mm hade policy wil be dekii.d
credit men at the annual dinner of the , In the House ..I Coiiinnm io-da i
New York f'redlt Men's Association cvpc.ieil that Hie uincii,il speeih vvn.
last night In the Aslor, warned Amerl-j I If h Sir IMw.ud Grey, who nil
ran business against a too hasty ex- defend tlie Foreign on . , part in inn
tension or plants tilling war otdeis,
and uiged a iiniservatlve polloj to avoid I
irouiue arter tne war.
"The seeds of grave danger am In the '
enlargement of Industries temporarily J
: overstllonl..teit be iiiuuli... ..n...,i. i....
i and using their resources to cope with
thn extraordinary demands," he said.
; oniming aim uusiness comtniiiilly
I might well Issue a word of warning
ngainsi using proiits, ir Indeed actual
prolits are being used, to expind beyond
the limits of prudence,
"Thero Is n danger that this new busl.
ness may mislead us Into building an
expanded credll structure upon nn un-
i sianio Hiunuaiiou ot smiting gold and a
.ooor...... s. ...ci re upon a oasis deii.iiniient as gnv-sly iinnir. II..
of ephemeral demands. promised Hut eatsfactm y icplies would
Mr. Warburgs leceimmendatlons of he made lo-dav.
caution Included tho placing of American oiiestnnm on thn b'ockuile al-o are n.
Industries on a permanent rather than , be asked in the House ol Lord. Loid
a tompor.iry basis and gathering In gold , sudenli.tni will mom mat the vital li
"now waslnfully carried In tlm people's 1 lt:,-ests of tlm allied p.mets demand the
pockets In exchange ror notes of thn fb-sl cveieise of the naval (orces eon-
l-eileral reserve banks, of which Mr. I sist.iil with liitnn.ation.il pi n!s t
Win burg Is a director. prevent nil cornmodities which ...inlue,.
DIMilcl Allorney Swaun and Senator ,,, nro'.ong.it Ion of tne w.ii I'rom i.och
Gorn of Oklahoma also spoke Others t1lf enemi countries
preseni we n .insure v ernou M imvih,
Itenjainln Strong, Sew.ud Prosser, Chip
euce S. Ilouglllou, United States Com.
mlssloner , Stephen Uaker and It. A.
Parker,
SWEDEN GIVES
WARNING SHE
MAY ENTER WAR
Premier Tells the Kiksilng
Neutrality Cannot Survive
Infringement of IliVhts.
HKMKVKI) TO m
THREAT TO IMMTA1X
Declaration 3lii(le on live of
(ircat Debate in
Commons.
'J'OWKItS' (.IfOlTIXt;
IS NOT KTKIIXAi;
31. llammarskjoclil Decries
Tearinjr Cp of Treaties
for Doubtful Ciaiu.
;r.i l l,!f r.xirri In Tllf Si s
Stockholm, Jan. 2.". fin the eve of
tllp delate In the Hrltlsh I'.ti llameiit re.
.
, g.i riling the contemplated dei l.iralloti of
a formal blockade against Germany, Pre.
rnler llaminarskjoeld served warning In
, Xhc Swedish Itlks.l.ig to-day that Sued.
t lull neutrality must not be iNpected to
1 survive continued Interference with tlis
rlKht!, of , cntry lln,or irern.itlnal
. .
law-
The Premier's warning is a clear
1 enunciation of the principle hinted at
In the King's spent It from the throne 11
week ago that Sweden will not remain
quiescent If her commerce Is Interfered
! 0111111111 we sunmir 10 u.iiigeiiii is-
I Mrlctlons. -,f our right and l.b-rt.v. the
I would piolub.y 1 timie more acute as
I l' "ai
went on. and even afterward.
' 1 "uinng in ...it.iiii economic -Hid polit.-
1 ':'''ul''"' 0
"Swi'den It. eiide.iv-ired cnuMnntlv to
cooperate with other neutrals, paitleii
luilv lieum.irk and Norwuy, to iiiomote
common aims in these eitoits Mvedi
has been successful to 11 consiileinli1-ih-grce.
"We legre: that these nulled effort-(tr-
tht rights and well-ale of neutr.i
Powers and for Ihe preservation, as 11 n 1
tinned .11 th
, " .11 i". i-.v-' 11 ii.nii ine inroMi
1 iif the inherit. nice of internallou.il :t.
1 siiouw iniiend on cln uiiiM.mct s over
Mill,-1, vl n I, -IV.. .....I ... 1...I,.
hiiii we have no riglu
11111 11 "llr conviction that the su
I ' ess of
Mich . Units Would bn to tile
advantage, ni.iwi mII and lihui:y, 1101
only of Sweden inn of other neuti.it
COUIltlles and of belllgilcllts.
"The pr.scnt grouping of tlm Powers
will not be eternal In oilier circum
stances 11 bcl.igerent perhaps will he
sorry that It his for the siko of an
otieii doubtful ..mi tempuiar udvant.ige
I ov t Ihe interpretation of minor poln's
111 internat.on.il law
Ux-Pii'tnlcr I, :n. lm. in Indni-sed the
pl..- of iieiitr.illtv f.u Sweden. n do-
niandeil that Mviden le Heated by b.l
l.g. mils III .lisotd.inei. with thn tcens
nlznil pnnriiiles of internal Hindi l.tvv
adding th.it It Is cquall) SHedcu's duty
to ulcrvn the same principles
DKUATK OS TO-DAY
C.inini.ti.s lo TiiUi , HI,... ,( i,
liret to Defend Old Poln,
I carrying oul of the oid.rs in Coiuit-
Ihe i I.-l u.i in I for the decimation ,, ,,,
actuil blockade ngalnst Ueiiniiiiy i
Austria, which has been agitated bv a
number of inwspaveis and many puM
men since the excitement over thn . -sii
ipltnn hill died down, will pioh.iliK
1... ...k..,l .... .. I ..v.. ill. I...I I,. I...
, duceil bv Arthur Sh.rlev II. mi,
a Con
servative member flniu I iy mouth
Some billet' cl.ishet ate pmhahlr A
question felletlipg on tin- I'oielgn
(Mll.c's cllicicncv iiiulcl tile nnl, -is ni.-nlo
In the Douse last week was shaiplv
answered In Sir Cdward Uiey, win. ,r
that tune . haractiTi.i d a gloat tniin
of the all.n ks that li.nl been mad., on
, , 0(,I.,.,i rirclni the fccllnir ir m 1
siroug for I In- de.i.ii'.ainn In spite of tin.
continued warnings sounded in Sweden
and tho app.ueiil lack of enthusiasm on
the part of France. News of the latest
