FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
I
I you ii.-iho.iib
PHILADELPUIA, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 15) I G.
CorTBiani, 1910, rr xni I'bbmo ledoeii CouriNi,
PJRIOJ3 OKJS CENT
II S. GIVES LAST
;.; WORD TO BERLIN
UPON LUS1IANIA
Wnstorff Told That Ger-
r'Dtany Musi' xviaiiu cum-
jpiplete Disavowol of Act
bWERS WITH LANSING
V." i -
Embassador Says Final Do-
'tjftnds oi rresiuuitb win xu
fllet Senas message
WASHINGTON, .Ian. 2fi.
.,,nv must specifically characterize
"tie sinking of tho Lusltnnla ns nn Illegal
... Until sho docs so there can lie no
Jail settlement of tlio dispute growing
( of tho torpedoing of the big
Cunarder.
pTj,j j3 the "last word of President
SOTltson. It was pcisonnny conveyed to
famtassador von Dcrnstorff today by
l&atlary of State Lansing. Tho latter
jfWiUntd that the Prcsldct considered
tie general clmiacter of the Lusltnnla
frreppsals contained In the latest "ln
iformal" communication from tho Herlln
rTiirn OIIlco satisfactory. Hut ho pos
it likely declined to permit tho passing over
, ik n.,.cttnn nf re.qnnnsllilllt v In tlin
01 WO iiui-jh-' - - -- - ...v
manner that Herlln has suggested.
, Count von flernstorff Is positive that his
Rovemment will meet tho llnnl demnnds
'f President Wilson.
& "Everything Is all right," he said as hd
left the State ucpnrtmcnt ntior nts con
ference with tho Secretary. "The cntlro
irjrtter will bo cleared up within a few
Jirt."
' MUST ACCEPT RESPONSIBILITY.
-'Germany has failed nnywhero to nccept
responsibility ror violating International
Utr, aud, while agreeing to pay Indemnity
for. Die Amcrlcnn lives lost when the
Lusltanla went to the bottom oft the
Irish coast, Indicated that It did so more
is in "act of grace" than as a "Justified
legal obligation."
Secretary Lansing nnd Count von Born-
ifjltota at a conference at tho Stato Do-
Jtrimeiu lociay ngrecu on uio geucrni
"form of settlement which will be nccent-
fe'iMi to the United States. This was a
. lomewhat dllllcult tnsk because of tho
differences between tho German nnd
;. English language. The Ambassador was
:y juuraus inui icrnis no uhuii wincn wouki
myo the same meaning In both lan
tuijes and would not seem stronger In
the German than in tho English text, ronl-
Ulnr that a misunderstanding of tho
i, concessions made must be prevented In
Germany if the agiecment was to bo nc-
. KBtable there.
The memorandum ns finally nnnroved
ly the Ambassador and tho flecrotnrywlU
te sent through to tho Herlln Foreign Of
hecin tho Srato Department code for an
'Jrottl there, tt ucccptcd by tho Ger
man 'Chancellor, it will be possible to
Wite "finis" on tho cntlro controversy as
tin actual llxlmr on the mr.nunt of the in-
f?fannlty to be paid can easily bo done.
'iljs understood that count von Dern-
.(lorff already has sent word to his homo
.Government that today's memorandum Is
!ths ''last word" of President Wilson: that
rjtio further concessions enn bo expected
tuut, unu mac no strongly recommends
that the position of tho United States be
'asreed to. The Count is fully confident
ithat hla advice on tho subject will be
(accepted by tho Foreign Office nnd that
Ilhln a week, at tho outside, ho will
' .receive Instructions to have tho Informal
(memorandum made formal and approved
ca behalf of both Governments.
fSAN GIOVANNI DIMEDUA
PRESA DAGLI AUSTRIACI
bLo Forze Teutoniche Marciano
Ora Verso Durazzo Per
Unirsi ai Bulgari
. TelOlrmmml tin nnmq illai.nnn rlin fll
SftQetrtael. ni'an.iinili. .In Un,,,..il liinnn
lecoipato ancho II porto, o mcgllo la
.. w can uiovannl dl Mcdua, c si
SPrtparano a marclaro sublto verso Dur-
30, dove st trnvnnn In tfitnnn ill 1snd
Wicla ed un contlngento Itallano. A
afural? E" austrlncl .ontano dl congi-
GuOEenfl ffrt In fn..A , .!. -.. J r.i
B-wasan marciano verso quel porto al-
Pin un Part0 oeuo rorzo
tt..iicBnno cno dircnuevano Scutari
'Ono stato rntlnrnto rlnr-M nnalrlnrl
Witaando que3U procedcttero all'occupa-
k-- "ma citia-. i serDt mveco nustir-
&." a jujgiro cd a rltlrnrsl verso aud,
iro6abllmento In dlrezlono dl Duraszzo.
I II rapporto dl lerl del generate Cadorna
B00 accenna alia battaglla cho, sccondo
jl telegramma dl lerl da Roma, sarebbo
l Miovo Impegnata sul fronto dell'Isonzo.
. '"Bsero In 8a paglna le ultimo o plu'
iwttagliate notlzio buIIu guerra, In Itall
luo.) f THE WEATHER
I Th. ,,. v,-j. . . .... .t.
n.t uirun; iney are Duuaing ineir
Kui ? M.UP' of months ahead of time.
KI2! S4 by ,hs deceptive "spring"
ltb so tllere w111 be tragedies when
bum Zz, levuaDie irost possioiy ouz
lMtTarrlve3 to astonish these very poor
i i. i vrupneis, Tney aro not aione
SW thp i ii., ...- .. ,. -
P"!n4 "M"' innocence, we roci
PtrI, LOdflV Ulkn ... A. nn n -A.
US?... he woull spend the money he
Pltrt i . uo I0r coal a,u' let wnat was
! , bln suffice for the remaining
yj". ki of lukewarm winter." Don't
HtliV. . r.Te,veBl Som nleht wne" yu
litfm? Vrolle(1 out without an overcoat and
leold Z at ,he tner eni ot tho city, a
B&oiT .. . wl" come on BO suddenly tnat
fitflth"l and yourself going home chilled
PmibI k aooui as comionaoie as u
St i. i "r in August, ui course wo
!?' .w'hns you any SIB; we Blmply
rf.iiS.10 te" the truth, as becomes an In-
H weather prophet.
- ., us wrong at that.
FORECAST
!iiit Til ! , ....
Fi7A, .fflwuteipnia ana vicmuu
fouZ,K clou."V tonight, probably
TtlA " ram ihursaay; not viucn
R??t Vi emPwe; gentle south'
Wot detail ,. , 1
-- ww pAyv (
lOST AND rOXJND
"Wilt S,M' 'bow doi. y stocky
&?
VtT . m '(. 4 1I1VU0 I11X M c
CIli
loal In northatera part
bral reward. 14ia Vtiw st
i. inq vio
about 3 weeks ago.
i, v " HIU. about 3 week aso.
)m n4lI,.monJ.n'J i)ltlnun Kyty rln.
DIRECTOR WILSON
TAKES A HAND IN
BOXING SCANDAL
Orders Superintendent
Robinson to Investigate
O'Keefe-Tendler Bout
NOT ON THE LEVEL
I
Fans Say Bout Was Fake Loft
in Disgust Before
Finish
Police Probe Alleged
Fight Fake at Olympia
Will stop fake bouts, Director
Wilson snys.
FiRht fans say their $2000 went
for a wrist-slapping bee.
Bantamweights accuser! of hit
ting "fast," "slow" or "Vassar"
style, as managers order.
Kacli got $390 as share of "fight."
Disgust so keen many specta
tors left after first round.
Remainder denounced exhibition
nnd followed suit after two more
rounds.
There was n big Hllr In pugilistic circles
today, when Director of Public Safety
Wilson ordered Supeilntcndent of Police
Robinson to make a thorough Investiga
tion of tho alleged fake. Eddie O'Kccfc
I.cw Tendler bout at the Olympia last
Monday night.
Superintendent Itoblnson said ho would
look Into tho matter at onrc, and see If
there was any reason for actlun by tho
Department of Public Safety.
Director Wilson nsKcitrd emphatically
that lie would nllmv nothing but dean
boxing In Philadelphia, and he added that
thcro would bo no mlsmatlng of com
batants while he was Director of Public
Safety.
"I shall refer this case to Superintend
ent Itoblnson," said Director Wilson,
"and It will bo up to him to llnd out If
thcro Is any warrant for action by this
dcpaitmcnt. Boxing must be conducted
on a clean basis In Philadelphia, nnd
theio must be no disturbances or viola
tions of the law. Of course, we shall not
go outside our proper juilsdlotlon In tho
matter of rights, but I am going to sec
that the splilt of the law Is closely
observed."
Moro than J00O business men, artisans
and ring fans who saw the Kddle
O'lveofe-Lcw Tendler bout at tho Olym
pia came away In high disgust. Many of
them grabbed their coats and hats and
left befoio the bout was over. Follow
ing tho bout charges were made that It
was tho most llngmnt fake over seen In
a Philadelphia boxing ring.
O'Keefo and Tender,. It is charged, nro
simply two professional boxers, and each
has a manager. Tho manager arranges
tho matches, rates their ability and draws
tho money. They do tho lighting under
orders. Observers say they will box at
the pace of one bell, two bells or full
speed.
It Is nsscrtcd t:.at tho "master hand"
has only to touch the signal or give tho
command nnd they will deliver the
goods." Press agents did such a good
Job for the professional boxers that a $2000
gate wns attracted. O'Keefo nnd Tendler
Continued on I'ngp l'our, Column Ono
J. EMLEN SMITH, 65,
WEDS MASSEUSE, 38;
NURSED FIRST WIFE
Leaves on Honeymoon Trip Aft
er Ceremony in St. Paul's Me
morial P. E. Church,
Frankford
WIDOWER TEN MONTHS
J. Hmlen Smith, n widower, 6. years old,
and well known BOelnlly. of Sweet nrinr,
Chestnut Hill, and Miss Amanda n. Ayrcs,
of 1513 Arrott street, Frankford, were mar
ried at noon today In St. Paul'a Memorial
Episcopal Church, Kensington avenue and
Uuckius street, Frankford.
The ceremony was performed by tho
Rev H. J. Humes, rector of tho church.
Mr. and Mrs. Smith left Immediately for
tho South on their wedding tour. On their
return they will llvo nt Sweet Hrlar, at 131
Ilex avenue. Chestnut Mill.
Mr. Smith has been a widower 10
months. iMrs, Smith la about 3S ycais old.
She was a masbcuso. Sho becamo ac
iiualnted with Mr. Smith while attending
his first wife during her illness. Ills first
wife was Mrs. Annie Koons. widow of
Charles Koons, when she and Mr. Smith
were married, about 3t yearn ago.
Mr. Smith haa a daughter, Mrs. Rhoda
Ev.cU. wife of Laurence M. Lwell. an
wiBlnecr. Mr. and Mrs. Kwell and their
t wo ! children have lived with i Mr. Sm th
since tho death of the first Mra. bmlth.
Mlsa Mary Urelner. a alster of the flrBt
?!' ,.'..,.. i. iivns nt Sweet Briar.
Mr Sinlth is a ton of the lato Joseph
Smith. Mo was never In business, accord
ing to his relatives. He la a member of
ing to tha philudelnh a
Cricket and Qermantown Clubs. His wlfo
la a memuer oi oi. mun ., ..,.
and has a host of friends In Frankford.
; inA iirpnsA was nroeured to
day To keep tho matter secret Mr.
Smith gave ms namu m j"sii "
instead of J. Emlen, as he la known, and
as h"a name appeara In tho Social Reg-
later.
FOUH MORE FORDS STOLEN
Police Think Maybe They Were Taken
by Mistake
The police automobile fcquad has Its
hands full. Lait night four 4-Ps were
stolen. Two of the machines left standing
a half block irora eatu ui "'- ""
nimoat at the same time, leading the po
?,'m0. ,?, theory that both machlnea were
taken by the. same man. The owners of
the Fords stolen were William L. Evans.
4918 North Jlth street; Dolf U Levy.
"318 North Park avenue, Abe Alberg-. 559
south 2d -trt J- c ilaiDJf- J019 ?,uth
20th street The xasi inacmuo wo maw
from In front of tne ewmey nre- i
mav have been " b mtake. like n
tlul the. police thiak,
jyj
ggd
8: 1& iSMwIM
1111111m jiHKlllili i
M. SANTOS-DUMONT
GREAT AERIAL FLEET
NEEDED TO DEFEND U.S.,
SAYS SANTOS-DUMONT
Would Be More Effective
Against Invasion Than Big
Army or Navy, Asserts
Dirigible Inventor
UNDER RADIO CONTROL
Fashions in aeroplanes hnvo changed so
In the last two ycais that It Is Impossible
to say what cannot be accomplished.
"Tho time mny come when wars will
be fought by men beside a wlicless
switchboard," said Alberto Satitos-Du-mont,
the Inventor of inntor-drlwn bal
loons, totlay. "Fancy an aeioplane guided
by wireless, and without a human occu
pant, being sent cIkIU miles and brought
back safely, simply by manipulating
a switch. Yet tills has been accom
plished and the wniring countries hnvn
turned in nidcrs for all they can get.
Mr. Santos-Dumont explained that he
is opposed to war.
"It is frightful. Science Is making It
more so every day. lUit I bollcvo that
science, through the "advarieo in trie
efficiency of aerial machines, can piotcct
tho United States from a war. Talk
about a nnvy nnd an nrmy? What Is
nc'ded hcie, with the thousands of miles
of coasts, Is a modern oeroplnno division,
a perfectly enormous squadron. 1 know
that such a fleet cannot be loo large.
It seems strange to me that tho American
pcoplo cannot come to lenlize this fact.
What good would huudieds of battleships
do without an aeroplane fleet? The enemy
would discover It in a minute with their
airships and the fleet would be blown to
atoms by submarines. Aeroplanes In
tho belligerent countries aro Indispens
able for scouting. They hnve virtually
Continued on 1'nge The, Cotiiinn One
THE GREAT POWDER ROMANCE;
A TRUE STORY OP STRONG
MEN AND WAR MILLIONS
So-Called "Du Pont Suit" Now Pending Presents Prob
lems in Equity of Highest Judicial
Importance
The immediate sum at stake in the "du Pont" auit now pendintj in the.
United Statca District Court in Delaware is more than $50,000,000. A
perusal of the following article will shout, however, that the litifjaiion
really involves control of a $21,0,000,000 corporation, the largest powder
manufacturing concern in the world. The story aho tells of some interest
ing churges brought against twelve of the twenty-one directors of E. I.
du Pont de Nemours & Co.
By HENRY B. LOOS
Copyright, 1910.
ARTICLE II.
The so-called "du Pont suit," now pend
ing In tho United States District Court,
In Delaware, not only involves a battlo
for control of E. I. du Pont de Nemours
& Co., tho S0,000,OCO corporation, which
has figured bo prominently In supplying
tho allied armies of Europe with explo
sives, but presents 'problems in equity
of highest Judicial importance.
Aro directors of a corporation trustees
for the stockholders? Aio directors
legally entitled to vote against the In
terests of tho corporation of which they
aro a unit in order personally to profit
thereby? Is it lawful for directors of
ono corporation to partlclpato In the
formation of a second corporation In
which their stockholdings in tho first
aro to bo pooled?
Theso are among the questions sug
gested by the bill of complaint of Philip
F. du Pont, of Merlon, Pa., who has
brought buii against tne cm ront securi
ties Company, of Delaware, to force the
surrender of "war brides." valued at
more than 50,000.000, to E. I. du Pont
de Nemours & Co. He alleges a be
trayal of trust on tho part of 12
directors of the powder company, who
acquired tho stock In question through
tho securities company rather than ob
taining it for the corporation of which
they were directors.
Added weight has been given tho pro
ceedings by the recent action of a num
ber of other members of the du Pont
family, who have petitioned the United
States District Court for permission to
become"party plaintiffs to the proceed
ings. I)y far the most Important of
these petitioners is Alfred I. du Pont,
who, because of hla attitude toward the
litigation, was promptly ousted from the
vice presidency and his position on tho
Finance Committee of the powder com
pany. This was effected by the de
fendants, who comprise 12 ot the 21 mem
bers of the board of directors of E. I.
du Pont do Nemouis & Co.
Among the other persons who have
filed Intervention petitions are Mrs.
Robeson Perot,, of 5151 'Vissahickon ave
nue. Philadelphia; E. Paul du Pont.
Archibald M. L. du ront. Ernest du Po.nt
and Francis I. du Pont, the last four
named living in or near Wilmington. Pel
These are children of the late Francis a
ail fuui, auu an aia ycuviieJJinBa unaer
hla tsjatet which, ccnjprUe many, ttou-
'it 1 11 1 n iimai -' ----pf iiim
fiitot
MAY TRY TO KEEP
'MARIE-0DILE' OFF
THE STAGE HERE
Mayor Smith Unwilling to
Give Advance Opinion of
Knoblauch's Play
LEAVES IT TO WILSON
Confident Director Will Solve
Problem Presented by
Religious Critics
Mayor Smith nnd Director of Public
Safety Wilson learned today that certain
religious societies In this city were con
sidering the advisability of protesting
against the production of "Marle-Odlle,"
Hdwnrd Knoblauch's remarkable play,
which David Helasco has announced to
open at the Adelphl next Mondny. Thu
play was surcessfully fought In Iloston,
Mayor Curley prohibiting Its presenta
tion Mayor Smith said bo bad not tried to
cross the bridge before he came to It.
Such matters were In Director Wilson's
province, he said.
"I hnve not Informed myself ns yet
concerning the piny, 'Marle-Odlle, " said
tho Mayor, "and so I cannot say what
action I will tnke. It Is probable that
the play will bo looked Into by Director
Wilson."
Director Wilson made this statement:
"If tho play shows any transgression of
public morals It will bo properly attended
to."
The last tlmo a play of great literary
merit, but of questioned moral correct
ness, was offered here, Philadelphia was
lucky In having such leading motalists as
Tim O'lnry and Henry Clay In charge
of the Dcpaitmcnt of Public Snfetv. Clay
was director ami Tim was his assistant
when Sarah Ilernhnrdt breezed Into town
with a whole bagful of new tricks. In
cluding "La S.imarltalnc," which thu
Fiench actress hail dono In New York.
The protest against It was sincere It
wan believed that ccitaln sacred events
Hhould not be the subject of stage repre
sentation, and Messrs. Clay and O'f.eary
lead the play In French and then put
their foot down hard on tho "Dlvlno
Sara's" art. However, they let her play
"Sapho," which, to say the least
So there Is plenty of precedent for
stopping a play on tho ground thnt It
orfeuds pu.'illc mot als.
MI) CI.AMPUD IN BOSTON.
When Iloston ministers lose In protest
ngalnst the presentation of tho Dolnhco
production. Mavor Curley acted with the
Instinct of the Pilgrim Fathers, and
clamped the lid on tight. Ho declared
thnt Boston must not seo "Marle-Odlle."
Helasco waved his bands in Indigna
tion, chewed his linger nails, and poured
a. tar-cnL.tUU3lai;iwiiiUtahusv" upon
Hoslqti'3 Mayor, but Mayor Curley stood
by his guns and waved aloft the banner
of tho Puritans.
"Helasco came back with words thnt
fairly sizzled with outraged fooling. If
Mayor Smith chance3 to read what tho
playwright and producer snld about tho
Boston Mayor, ho might, bo chary of
treading upon tho professional toea of
Bclasco.
"I have never in my life," cried Belasco,
"staged a play which by any stretch of
tho imagination could be termed moral
destioylng. I have never In my life pro
duced a cheap, lawdiy, salacious, nasty,
vulgar, wicked play; I have no women
disrobing; I have nothing coarse; I have
Contlnunl on Vane Tun, Column One
saids of shares of stock In the powder
company,
Tho removal of Alfred I, du Pont was
unquestionably effected by the defendant
directors to discourage other members of
tho du Pont family connected with the
powder company from following tho ex
ample set by him In filing an Intervention
petition with tho court. That it did not
havo this effect Is shown by tho fact that
Francis I. .lu Pont, another director of
E. I. du Pont de Nemours &. Co., filed
his petition with the court Immediately
after his cousin, Alfred I. du Pont, had
been deposed. -
The first Intimation tho public hnd ot
Internal difficulties In tho affairs of the
powder company was on December 8, 1915,
when the bill of complaint of Philip F.
du Pont waa tiled with the court. The
accusations In tho bill, if true, disclose
"high finance" developed to tho nth
power In tho activities of Pierre S. du
Pont, now president and a director of tho
powder company, nnd It others who aro
also directors In the corporation In addi
tion to being stockholders In tho du Pont
Securities Company.
The defendants named In the bill are
Pierre S. du Pont, Irenee du Pont, Lam
mot du Pont, Alexia Felix du Pont, John
J. Raakob, It. It. Morgan Carpenter,
Henry F. du Pont, Eugene E. du Pont,
'William Coyne, Marry G. Haskell, Harry
F. Ilrown, John P. Laffy, the du Pont
Securities Company, the E. I. du Pont de
Nemours Powder Company and the cor
poration Into which this waa "reorgan
ized" on September 8, 1915, tho present E.
I. du Pont de Nemours & Co.
The allegations In the bill of complaint,
condensed and stripped of legal verbiage,
are essentially as follows:
In December, J9H, T, Coleman, du Pont,
then president of tho E. I. du Pont de
Nemours Powder Company, wrote to the
Finance Committee of the powder com
pany offering to sell 20,000 shares of com
mon stock in the corporation at 1160 a
share. This letter was considered at a
meeting of the committee held Decem
ber 23, 1911.
The members of the Finance Committee
were at that time Pierre S. du Pont, Al
fred I. du Pont. William du Pont and T.
Coattautd a V( Six, Column Turee,
1
iifttil
jg,
1 , - -
F0LWELL BOOMS
EX-SENATOR KNOX
FOR PRESIDENT
President of Manufac
turers' Club Commends
Him to Republicans
FREPAREDNESS ISSUE
"Industrial and Military Prep
aration" the Battle Cry in
Campaign
g : 1
NATHAN T. FOLWELL
7t (s freely admitted by Republican na
tional leaders Hint the manufacturers of
the country will hare thr Htronrjeit voire
tn the naming of the lleyubllcan nominee
for President at the (Jhicapo eonrcntlon
ne.rt June. The Republicans will tcayc
their lainpnlnn, it has been announced,
upon the Issues of the tarif, national pre
paredness and l'restdent ll'ffxoii'ji forrlyn
policy. The first two issues arc combined
by the manufacturers, as Nathan T. l'ol
well fu the following interview expressed
It, Into the one bly issue of "industrial and
military preparedness."
Mr. Fohccll, who Is president of the
Manufacturers' Club of Philadelphia, ono
of the most powerful groups of manufac
turers in the country, considers Philander
C Knox, former Secretary of State,
Nathan T. ' TTolw'Slt, president of tho
Manufacturers' Club, which rivals tho
Union League rts a bulwark of protection
and Republicanism, camo one strongly
today In favor of Philander C. Knox for
the Republican nomination for President.
Mr. Folwell discussed tho nntlonnl po
litical situation as president of the Mnnu
factuicrs' Club. Ho at oneo dcclaied
Knox to bo tho only prominent Republi
can In the country whose experience
qualifies him to solve tho problems nnd
meet tho situations that will aiiso dur
ing tho next four years bcinuo of tho
war and becauso of business londltions
in America.
Ho attacked Piesldent Wilson ns "a
Contlnunl on 1'nge Slv, Column Tho
CAMDEN CHORUS GIRL'S
HOME STORMED WHEN
FUNERAL IS HELD
Morbid Besiege Residence and
Stretch Out in 100-Foot
Line in Cooper
Street
MURDER PREMEDITATED
Witnesses who may bo tho means of
proving premedltntlon on tho part of
vtnsoii c Astilii frige, accused of tho
muidcr of Mrs. Elizabeth Dunbar, tho
Camden chorus girl who was shot and
killed nt 9th and Market streets, Camden,
on Saturday night, appeared today wlillo
the dead girl's family was preparing for
her funeral In a house at 20? Amber
street, Camden. According to Hazel
Anderson, a girl who lives nt 915 Car
penter street, Camden, her father found
Ashbrldge pointing a icvolver at Mra.
Dunbar as sho stood backed up against
a building nt 9th and Carpenter streets,
an hour beforo tho murder took place,
Tho girl told this story when sho called
at tho Amber street house today with
flowers to place on tho coffin. Sho said
her father heawl a man's volco raised
in anger. Ho ran to the plnco tho sound
camo from and saw Ahhbrldgo threat
ening Mrs. Dunbar with a revolver. Up
pulled Mrs. Dunbar out of the way and
frightened off Ashbrldge, tho girl said.
Her story will bo Investigated.
Tho crowd grew so big as the morning
passed that it was decided to hold tho
services and start for tho cemetery an
hour earlier than that announced. It was
feared there might bo some sort of dem
onstration If the throng continued to grow
until the time bet for the funeral.
As a result, many persons missed It,
but, desplto tho changed hour, W) men,
women and soma children blocked the
streets when tho carriages started for
Calvary Cemetery.
Tho Ilov. T. D. Collins read tho Epis
copal funeral service.
While tho funeral procession was on Its
way to tha cemetery, Ashbrldge, tho man
accused of the murder, was playing curds
in his cell with two men teccntly arrested
in Pennsgiove na pottottlce robbers. He
seemed unconcerned, and asked for cigar
ettes and some food.
There was sorrow in the little house on
Amber street, the home of the dead wom
an's sister, Mra. Maud Henschall, lu the
hours before the funeral took place. A
constant watcher beside tho casket, which
was placed In a front room on the tlrst
floor, was fc-year-old Winona. Dunbar,
tho daughter of thu murdered woman.
In her mother's hands was a single
rose, with a card reading "To Mother,"
that the child had procured downtown.
Friends of the family saw to it that
the room was banked with Mowers of all
sorts. One of tho biggest clusters came
from the employes of the Temple tfrreatre,
nt 4th and Market streets, where, Mrs.
Dunbar had. often played.
m'Pm- '
it?' ''
b'WwwTi.cy.ujfcJs:'i .. s
w$T ' $Mki-- . ter
fern iinritfnTi
a - Ai dm nfllf""-- -r-
rAriift'i
QUICK NEWS
GENERAL VOOD BEFORK HOUSE COMMITTEE
WAaiUNQTON, Jnit. SO. Major Orn-iMl Leonard Wood, former
Chief of Staff of tho United StnlcD ni':ny, new in charge of the De
partment of the Ertst, followed General Villinm Crosici before tho
JtiliLiry Affilf? Committee of the HoUbo today, givinjj his opinion
as on expert on tho need for a cciibldevablc lues case in tho laud forces
ot tile eiiuimy. tie favored nil
in Hip President's nirparetlncss plan.
VESSEL REPORTED IN DISTRESS
1TAI.ITA2J, N. S Jnn, 2(3. Tho following incasnBQ was received
hue luat nljjht Horn C.ipa lUco wlrcleca ntaUon: "Stearoojiin 3o
thambeau icpoita DU.tmshlp Vlnland stand. ng by vessel In distress
uukJIhj? up roo':cls. nothing hau been tceu or heard cf dlstiesccd
vcsrcl Blues. Finland ndvlscs all vcoicfo td hceji a lookout for her."
SOCIALIST PRESIDES AS SPEAKER OF HOUSE
WASHINGTON, Jan. 2U. A Socialist today for tho first tlmo presided ovor
tho llouso of ItoprcHcnttitlvo.H. ItcprcsontiiUvo Meyer London, the only
Socialist In tho House, occupied the Speaker's elialr while tho House rccclvod
tt message from tho Konato. Tho llnuso wus In committee of tho whole, con
sidering the child labor bill, with Representative norland, of Missouri, as chair
man. Speaker Clark had loft tho hall. A messenger arrived from tho Senate,
nnd Representative London was called to the rostrum. Ills activity ns Speaker
rjiislsteil of recognizing tho Senato
mittee) will resume Us sitting."
FIRST-ORDER IN CAMDEN UNDER LIABILITY ACT
Tho llrst onlci In Camden, under the new employer's liability act, was
Issued today by Judge Ituylc, in the Criminal Court. Camden, ngalnst the Tay-lur-White
Kxtuu-tlng Company, for $200. Tho recipient is Albert Fisher,
i 1C'2I Chestnut street, Camden, who
ing at a machine in tho extracting company's plant.
ENVOY ASKS RULING ON ARMED MERCHANTMEN
"WASHINGTON, .Ian. L'C Haron Krieh Zwledlnck, Charge of the Austrian
Kmbassy, today asked Secretary of State Lansing to determine upon n definite
policy regarding armed merchantmen. Tho Austrian Charge asked that this
Government will take. It is pointed out that ho made it clear at tho
at New York, with guna mounted aft, sail.s for Italy.
Secretary Lansing did not give any intimation us to what stand this
Government will take. It is pointed out thnt lie made it clear that at tho
time the Giuseppe Vordl was allowed to sail with guns mounted that tho
Government was not establishing a precedent. Secretary Lansing said then
that every case would lie dealt with separately.
11 KILLED IN GERMAN MUNITIONS PLANT EXPLOSION
AMSTERDAM, Jan. 2G. Eleven men and women were killed and moro
than 200 wounded by nn explosion In a German munition factory at Offenbach,
Ilesse. Part ot the city was wrecked.
EORD PILGRIMS RACK IN STOCKHOLM
STOCKIIOLJI. Jnn. 26. Tho working, committee of tho Ford pcaco ex
pedition arrived here today from The Hague. The members displayed doop
interest In reports that William J. Bryan hnrt decided to Join them In tho
near future, but said no official confirmation or theso rumors hnd reached tho
committee. Tho committee will stay at Stockholm until pcaco negotiations to
end the war have begun.
ARRANGE EXCHANGE OF TUBERCULAR PRISONERS
PAHIS, Jan. 26. Through tho offices of tho International nod Cross Com
mission nn exchango of French and Gormnn prisoners of war who aro suffering
from tuberculosis has been arranged. Tho exchango will tako place next
month, but Instead of the stricken prisoners being sent to their respective
countries, they will bo sent into tho Swiss mountains for treatment and all
their expenses will bo paid by Franco and Germany.
OFFER REWARD FOR MURDERER OF OLD SOLDIER
The Borough of Souderton, Pa., has offered a $200 reward for Information
leading to tho arrest of the murderer of tho ngeil G. A. It. veteran, Tom Barrett
"Old Tom," as ho was known was killed more than a week ago.
COMMONS ADVANCE ENEMY TRADING BILL
LONDON. Jan. 26. Tho Hnuso of Commons has passed tho third reading ot
tho trading-wlth-tho-enemy bill without division, after tho adoption of amend
ments concerning minor details in tho application of tho measure. The feature
of tho debate was several bitter attacks on the Hoard of Trade, on tho ground
that It had shown too much leniency tn aliens.
DUTCH PUT EMBARGO ON RUBBER EXPORTS
THE HAGUE, Jan. 26. A royal deereo was Issued today forbidding tha
fu tu ro exportation of rubber. Ita uim was to cut off exports to Germany.
Great Britain, it Is understood, will reciprocate by ordering nn further Interfer
ence with shipments of rubber to Holland. In the past, rubber cargoes liavo
been held up until It was proved conclusively that they wore not consigned to
German agents in Holland.
BULGAR CZAR GETS ANOTHER BATON
AMSTERDAM. Jan. 20. Czar Ferdinand of Hulgnrla, recently appointed a
field marshal In tho German nrmy by tho Kaiser, has also been awarded a Held
marshal's baton by Emperor Frnna Josef of Austiiu, Vienna reported today.
Count Lonyny can led tho baton to Sulla and with it a mes&ago of greetings
from Franz Josef. "Warm sentiments toward your Majesty fill my heart,"
wired Czar Ferdinand In eMiresslng thanks. "Tho nil-high war lord becomes
my serene nnd lofty ally who deigns tu confer upon my insignificant personality
tho highest honor In tho famous Austrian army."
LINER NORSEMAN BEACHED AFTER BEING TORPEPOED
LONDON, Jan. 26. Tho Dominion liner Norseman, reported in yesterday's
Liverpool dispatches to liavo been sunk, did not go to tho bottom, but was
beached, it waa learned today. There were no casualties among her crew,
SWISS PUNISH BERLIN LAWYER AS SPY
PARIS, Jan. 26. A Havas dispatch from Herno says tho court has sentenced
tlio Berlin lawyer Salomon to 45 days' imprisonment and a line of .1000 francs.
It Is further oidcred that ho bo expelled from Switzerland for a period of five
years and that ho pay tho costs of his trial, ' Tlio charge against Salomon was
that he practiced espionage In Switzerland und that ho had n forged passport
describing him as an American citizen.
BRYCE ASKS AMERICAN AID FOR ARMENIANS
LONDON, Jan. 20. Viscount Uryce has requested Ambassador Page to urga
upon the United States to interpose In aid of Armonlans who, driven from their
homes by the Turks, have sought refuge In Syria. The former Ambassador to
Washington told Mr. Page that tho predicament of tho Armenians was growlnjf
even worse than when the Turks started to slaughter them, and that the need
of help was "Imperative. Viscount Uryce informed Ambassador Page that ha
called as the representative or Uritlsh subjects eager to aid the Armenians, but
unable to do anything. Unless America was able to afford aid, hq declared, tho
Armenians eventually would, starve to death on the barren plains ot Syria,
I
AVIATORS HUNT DOWN MONTENEGRIN GUERRILLAS
ROME, Jan. 26. Austrian aeroplanes, flying ahead ot the vanguards ot
their own army, are hunting down the retreating groups of Montenegrin sol
diers, flying low and using their machine guns, according to reports received
here today. The Montenegrin soldiers are carrying on guerrilla warfare 13. tha
'i'arabosca Mountains, west ot Scutari.
1 11 in ninii n 11 11 1) 1 hi ii It i n flilifi
even larger foicsthait i3 proposed
V
messenger and announcing: "Tho com
had his eollaibono broken while work
i iifUJM
jjto
