' " . ' ' "
I f .
COMMENCED AUGUST 8, J37
ST. JOHNS! JRY, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1916
VOL. LXXIX, NO. 25 WHOLE NO. 4097
I
The Berry-Ball 'Dry .'Goods Co.
ciD SI DT3 QH 1
Has been the most successful
we have ever held, in num
ber of customers and volume
of business.
We attribute to "Honest Ad
vertising" the big response
we always receive to our
advertisements
SALE CLOSES
SATURDAY NIGHT
We wonder If our customers realize the
rapid advance in nearly all merchandise.
We have bargains in
EVERY DEPARTMENT
Men's Suits and Overcoats
Ladies' Suits and Coats
Dresses
The Berry-Ball Dry Goods Co.
SAVE P
A .HOME.
TVERY manor woman has planned at sometime to own
' their home With a roof over your own head that you
have paid for yourself and over which there is absolutely no in
debtedness you will enjoy more real happiness than you have
ever experienced before.
The problem of buying a home is difficult. The. problems
in buying a home are very many even after you have selected
the house and know the amount of money that you can afford to
pay. One thing is sure. The most satisfactory way to pur
chase a piece of property is to pay the cash. With the aid of
the new $100.00 Installment Books being put out by the Pas
sumpsic Savings Bank you can systematically plan to own
your own home and lot by taking out enough books to
cover the amount you want to invest in a home. Think this
over and drop into the Bank as soon as possible.
Passumpsic Savings Bank
St. Johmbury, Vermont
BANQUET THURSDAY NIGHT
National Guard Matters To Be Dis
cussed Before Commercial Club.
Tomorrow night Colonel Reeves and
Adjutant-General Tlllotson of the Ver
mont National Guard will state their
case before the Commercial club and
Ihxlr rnncto Thcca m An are WOrklnST
for a cause which is strongly cham
pioned by the Greater Vermont asso
ciation. The association has under
taken the work of urging every or
ganization in the state to give these
men an opportunity of stating their
case to the members.
Indications so far point toward a
very successful meeting. The mem
bers of the club are going to turn out
in large numbers and Company D
will be represented by a large delega
tion. If you are interested In increas
ing the efficiency of the Vermont
National Guard, show it by your attendance.
" Suffered A Shock.
Jacob Chrlstman, a baker, aged
about 60, suffered an apopletic shock
while at work In King's bakery yes
terday afternoon. The man was
formerly employed at the Cross bakery
and had worked only a day for King.
After finishing dinner he returned to
work and was stricken almost imme
diately. Dr. J. M. Allen was called
and he ordered Chrlstman removed
to Brightlook hospital where he is in
a critical condition. He is a widower
and came here from Boston about
four years ago.
Delayed ads get no business.
FRATERNAL MEETINGS
Pasaampalc Ldffe, No, 27. F. A. M
Rejrular Communication Thursday eren
ing, reornary a, 1916. 7,3U r. M.
Pmd C. Bick, W. M
David R. Cols, Secretary.
Haaweil Royal Arch Chapter, No. 11.
Stated Convocation Friday evening. Feb
ruary 18.
Raymond A. Pbisl, E. H.P
Fud G. Moon, Secretary.
Palesttae Commaadery. No. 5. K. T.
Special Conclave Tuesday evening, Feb
ruary i.
Elwik A. Silsby, Em. Commander.
Bui D. Evans, Recorder.
Kalarhta of Pythlaa.
Regular Convention of Apollo Lodge No
x, luema ay evening-, .February 1.
D. H. HARLOW, C. C,
H. B. ANDERSON, K. R. S.
Tho fefaaeum of Natural SHenee.
Open week days 9 12 A.M.. 14 P. M.
Sundays 2.30 to 6 P. M.
All visitors welcomed.
St. Johaabory Athenaeum.
LIBRARY RBADIHO tOOM ART OILLBIT
9 o'clock to 9 o'clock each week day, Wed
nesday evenings excepted.
3 o'clock to 5 o'clock Sundays.
All are invited.
LOCAL NOTICES
(Notices will be Inserted in this
column in reading matter type at the
rate or ten cents a line lor trie nrst
Insertion and five cents a line for sub
sequent insertions of the same copy.)
The ladles of the W. R. C. will hold
a matinee social in the G. A. R. hall.
Wednesday afternoon, Jan. 26, at
2:30. Card tables for those who care
to play. Light refreshments will be
served.
Farms and houses for sale. C. E.
KIRK.
Goodrich Special Sack Suits $27.50
Made in St. Johnsbury.
T. F. BOURROUGHS
The well-known violinist, is ready to
take advaneed scholars of at least two
yers training, beginning Jan. 22. For
terms apply by telephone, 154-4.
. Auto Renewal Outfit First Coater,
Finishing Coater, Brass Polish, Cush
ion and Top Dressing, Aluminum
Paint, Lamp Enamel, Two Varnishing
Brushes, Aluminum Paint Brush,
Package of Steel Wool, Two Sheets
Sandpaper, $4.00. THE PECK COM
PANY, 21 Eastern Ave.
HOUSEHOLD SCALE for the house
wife to check up her purchases. Ca
pacity, 10 lbs Made to sell for $4.00
We sell them while they last for $2.50.
THE PECK COMPANY, 21 Eastern
Ave.
Fairbanks Coffee, sold by A. H.
Gleason, 73 Main street.
If you are weak, tired and all
run,: down, get a bottle of Searles'
Hypophosphites, It will make you
feel like a new person. Regular
$1.00 size only 79c.
If you need a monument or any
lettering done In cemetery write or
call 534M, J. E. Walker.
YENISON AND FISH
Real Game At Banquet Of Cale
donia Forest And Stream Club
Next Wednesday Noon. .
The management, through the as
sistance of State Fish and Game Com
missioner J. W. Titcomb, has secured
some fine venison to be served at, its
annual banquet at sharp noon next
Wednesday, Feb. 2, at Pythian hall.
The annual business meeting will fol
low the banquet and speaking. Aside
from Mr. Titcomb, the speeches will
be very short so the business of the
meeting can be finished and the at
tendants catch the afternoon trains
for home. - .
The serving of real venison and nice
fish at this time of year is a novelty
in Vermont but they will be ready for
all members or those who wish to Join
the club at that time. Another fea
ture that will cause lots of fun will be
the appearance of Frank O. French,
St. Johnsbury'c famous entertainer,
who will make you laugh no matter
what the weather may be. Every
speaker has promised to be present
and respond. They are J. W. Titcomb,
Hon. Alexander Dunnett, Rev. J. J.
Hutchinson, Dr. H. L. Pache and Rev.
F. H. Laird. Each one is a fish and
game enthusiast and will have some
thing worth while to say. Be at Py
thian hall at sharp 12 next Wednes
day for dinner, fun and business.
The banquet will be served by the
Brightlook hospital Aid association
for theim memorial free bed fund.
The man who llirts
with trouble
is apt to get it where
Uncle Bill got the carbuncle
You have no trouble if
you buy your coal of us
HARLOW HATCH ON TRIAL
State Has Put In Its Case And The Defense Has Begun
Expected Hatch Will Take The Stand For Himself
Today or Tomorrow Stiff Legal Battle Between At
tomies for State And The Respondent Attempts To
Have The Case Postponed Unsuccessful Testimony
To Date.
irS-xmmmmm ... ''"'; ".i.n.i m mmm mmm ,,l.,,,,,M,,y,,MW,.rX
Harlow W. Hatch, indicted for manslaughter, in causing the death of
Sumner Brown, by shooting on July 18, at his pool room in this village is
now on trial before Caledonia county court and is now putting in his defense.
Several witnesses were examined yesterday and there are several 'others
including medical evperts and gun experts and then Hatch will take the wit
ness stand himself and doubtless tell the story that will either convict or
clear him from the serious charge over him. It has been years since a case
In county court has attracted the crowds that come each afternoon to listen
to the evidence. It is a sharp legal battle. The counsel for the defence, Si
monds and Searles, have attempted to file a demurrer to the indictment.
alleging that it did not contain the words "By the Authority of the State of
Vermont" as required by the state constitution. The attorneys for the state,
States Attorney. N. A. Norton and Attorney General H. G. Barber maintained
that the indictment was made in the .regular form and therefore correct and
the court so ruled. Again on Monday afternoon the attorneys for the re
spondent asked to have the jury discharged for misconduct and the case
continued. This was denied. Time after time they sought to have evidence
restrained and now that they are putting in their case the attorneys for the
state are fighting with equal zeal against the admission of certain evidence.
In the story following the state's evidence is given and that for the defense
up to adjournment last evening. What the defense is to present in the re
mainder of their case Is not known.
SIP
1 1 i
.tan
.Juv ..just i-
Selecting The Jury.
Choosing a jury to try the case was
the first task and ' it has been many
years since so much time was given
to selecting 12 men to try a case.
Thirty-five men were examined be
fore the jury box was filled and it re
quired from nine o'clock Thursday
morning until 10:80 Friday forenoon
to weed out the men. Nineteen were
excused for cause; and the state and
respondent's counsel each challenged
two men. The regular jurymen were
exhausted and several talesmen were
summoned. The men finally selected
were:
A. W. Coffrin of Groton, Levi P.
Dean of Sutton, David Frechette of
St. Johnsbury, H. H. Fyler of Burke,
Edwin A. Gray of St. Johnsbury, F.
L. Judkins of Barnet, Comer E.
Moore of Peacham, Azro M. Peck of
St. Johnsbury, F. C. Richardson of
Waterford, Calvin Clark of St. Johns
bury, Claude Watson of Lyndonville
and L. E. Johnson, of Waterford.
THE STATE'S EVIDENCE.
State's Attorney Norton made a
very brief statement of the case for
the state. The first witnesses for the
state were George B. Burgess, archi
tect, who gave a plan of the pool
room where the shooting took place;
H. W. Randall, owner of the building,
described the premises and stated that
Mr. Burgess' plan was correct. He
also told how he was in the store over
the pool room on the evening of the
shooting and heard the shot. He ran
out of the store and around the cor
ner of the building and saw a man
fall on the sidewalk but said on cross
examination that he did not know
who the man was. He also stated
that he could hear conversation in
the room below from where he was
standing at the' time of the shot but
had heard none that night.
W. H, Jenks identified photographs
he had taken of the pool room some
time in August, the photographs
howing a revolver lying on the floor.
Thomas C. Wallace, a member of
the St. Johnsbury police force, said
he was at the Central Fire Station at
the time of the shooting and reached
the pool room about five minutes
after the shooting. He described the
position of Brown's body and the re
volver on the floor. He took the re
volver which had five cartridges In it
and one of them was empty. He had
kept the revolver since the shooting
and produced the weapon in court.
It was shown to the jury and then
unloaded. He told of going to the
house of James Hatch in East Barnet
the night of the shooting in search of
Harlow W. Hatch. The first trip he
made he reached the house about one
o'clock in the morning and Mr. Hatch
was up and his kitchen was lighted.
James Hatch had on rubber boots,
pants and a vest. He visited the
house several hours later in ' the
morning and it was dark at that time.
On cross examination he said he
did not see the body of Brown car
ried into the pool room and that he
was about the room until about If
o'clock that night. Asked to Identify
some of the persons he saw there he
pointed to some of the other witnes
ses and said he remembered seeing
them.
At this point the state requested
that the jurors be allowed to visit the
pool room where the shooting took
place and they in company with court
officials, the court and one attorney
on each side visited the place.
Three Nearest Witnesses.
The state then called Arthur W.
Goodearl of West Acton. Mass., who
said he was in town on the night of
the shooting. In company with Ar
thur Liberty and Clayton Stone he
was walking down Eastern avenue
and when about half way between the
pool room and the Y. M. C. A. build
ing he heard a shot. He turned
about and first saw a man staggering
out of the door of the pool room. He
cried as he came out "I am shot" and
fell forward on the sidewalk. He
rushed to the man and took hold of
his head to assist in carrying him
back into the pool room. The body
was laid on the floor and he saw the
revolver lying on the floor and told of
its position. He did not see Hatch at
first but when he asked where he
could get a telephone, Hatch, who
was near the counter, said he would
sh&w him one. He picked up the re
volver and in company with Hatch
started for the telephone. Hatch
showed him to the foot of the stairs
where the central telephone office was
and he went up to have a doctor call
ed and Hatch kept on up Main street.
He had the revolver with him at that
time and after getting a. telephone
girl to call a doctor he went back to
the pool room. He laid the revolver
on the floor there where he had found
It. When he went back he did not
see any indications there had been a
struggle in the room. On redirect ex
amination he said he could not iden
tify the revolver, that he was very
much excited and did not put the re
volver on the floor until told to do so
by. an officer.
Clayton Stone of St. Johnsbury told
practically the same story regarding
the place where they were when they
heard the shot. He heard a cry right
after the shot as if from a man in
pain. Shortly after the door of the
pool room was opened and a man
staggered out and cried "Oh, I'm
shot." He fell forward and went
down in a heap as though his legs
had given out. He started for the
Y. M. C. A. steps and did not know
who carried Brown into the pool room.
On cross examination he said he did
not notice any light in the pool room
as he was passing nor hear any sound
in there. He thought the Liberty boy
and Goodearl went back.
Arthur Liberty of St. Johnsbury
was next called and told where he
and the two previous witnesses were.
He first heard a shot inside the build
ing and a man holler as if in pain.
He came out the door a few seconds
later and said "I- am shot." He was
bent forward and reached for the rail
(Continued cn page four.)
Feature Program January 26 to February 3
Wei, fatal Card" (Paramount)
South American Travels.
Thurs., "Heredity" (Yitagraph)
Fa, "Little Gypsy" (Win. Fox)
Paramount News and Spring Styles
Sat, "Sign of tne Cross" (Paramauat)
"Ventures of Marguerite,"
Moil, "Zaza" (Paramount)
Tues., The Undertow" (Essanay)
Featuring Hazel Dawn and Jack Mason
Featuring an AH Star Cast
Featuring Dorotlty Bernard
Featuring Win. Farnham
Featuring Marguerite Courtot
Featuring Pauline Frederick
All Star Cast.
THE GLOBE THEATRE
WINTER IS THE TIME FOR
Sore Throat
ALSO TO USE
Tho American Throat Tablofs
The Ideal Remedy for Sore Throat or Cough
Remember to Use
Tho American Liver Tabid
The Perfect Laxative
They Made The Quarter Famous
(Hlow Do You Like Bt?
Some folks consider an Insurance Agent a nuisance. They allow
if they want any Insurance, they can go after it, but they seldom do this.
I write all kinds of Insurance and am glad to do it, but I do not
personally solicit business from any one. Should be glad to have you
call at my office, where I can show you more intelligently, just what
I can do for you, or will call on 'you upon request, either by Phone,
374-1, or by card. I claim to have the very best of a kinds a
cheaper than many companies.
CIIAS. S. HASTINGS, Agent
Over the Old Post Office for Last 38 Years
St. Johnsbury,
Vermont
P S. IS U: : 2- 325" : llL r-J 7 77i
Winter, fcS ttiuinetv
Gas and Coal Combination Ranges are no longer con
sidered a luxury. They save both space in the kit
chen, and steps for the housewife, and until you have
used one, it would be difficult to realize its possibilities.
STERLING Combinations, from $45 to $ 1 05
"Walk In and Look Around
Xhe C H. Goss Co.
