MARKETS
vr-f. Atti J -
NEW YORK CITY
Arizona Snow north,
rain south.
Average copper
week ending Jan.
23.43.
MEMBFR ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL 18, NO. 207.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, JANUARY 26, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
m m
coin
FOR TARIFF
URGED BY
WILSON
President Confers with Major
ity Leader Claude Kitchin
and Asks that Matter Re
ceive Attention Now.
CHANGE OF POLICY IS
NOTED IN NEW STAND I
Minority Whip, Man, in the
Lower House, Asks Con
gress to Support the Prepar
edness Plans for Country.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 25. The an
nouncement was made that the Presi
dent favors the creation of a non-parti-san
tariff commission, with broad pow
ers to investigate tariff duties and re-
lntions between Industries at home and I
abroad as well as the entire tariff and
commercial machinery of the world.
The President discussed the plan
with Kitchin, chairman of thfc House
Ways and Means Committee, j He ask
ed consideration immediately rin view
cf getting action at the present ses
sion. Tomorrow he expects t4 discuss
the matter with Simmons, chairman of
the Senate Finance Committee."
The President previously hid taken
the position the powers of the tariff
commission were all held byl the ex
isting bureaus, but he told Kitchin he
felt justified In urging the creation of
a separate commission this time be
cause of the unusual world conditions
"and on account of the Interest the Un
ited States would have In tmcommer
cial adjustment after the present up
heaval. URGES PREPAREDNESS
WASHINGTON. Jan. 25. Unquali
fied', non-partisan support of military
Dieparedness was urged by Minority
Leader Mann in a speech on the floor
of the House. He was repeatedly ap
plauded on both sides. While it has
ben understood that most of the Re
publicans favored army and navy in
creases, none of the leaders had spok
en before. Mann's address is regard
ed as significant, as coming, on the eve
of the President's departure on his
preparedness speaking tour.
Mann based his plea on the ground
that it behooves the United States to
prepare for eventualities that may
come as the result of the European
war. He declared he saw no immedi
ate danger of war, but that the possi
bility of being .drawn Into the confleet
or one that might result from it was
too great to be disregarded.
Mann urged no particular prepared-!
ress plan but favored a standing army,
of ouarter to a half million, better)
rnsst dffencA and a navy to be able to I
aVfnd the United States on sea. He
said it would be millions n wbut it
Vas better hat than billions later.
"SEE"D-UP" SAYS WILSON
WASHINGTON. Jan. 25. Agitation
for greater Congressional acfivity on
the administrative program was given
impetus when the President asked Ma
.Witv Leader Kitchin to "speed up" in
the House. The President arranged to I eyen after the annihilation of the ar
discuss the subject with leaders of Hies of, the reactionaries by the con
both houses tomorrow with a view to stitutionalist forces, believe that the
nve Congress finish its work and ad-j situation thus created calls! for the
journ before the political convention ; extremity of energetic,;, measures of
In June. I punnr"sion in order that 'such crimes
Kitchin aspnred the President there
wa sno disposition on the part of the
House to delay the legislation and
nointod out that action would be taken
in the next few weeks on important
nnprcriription p.nd other bills. The
President had been told there was dan
ger of long debates and delays in the
Senate. - l
TO TRANSPORT REFUGEES
NEW YORK, Jan. 23. A steamer to
take Serbian refugees from Durazzo.
Albania, to other countries in Europe,
has been chartered by the American
Relief Clearing House in Paris, accord
ing to an announcemnt here by the
National Allied Relief Committee.
France is understood to have given
the assurance the convoy will be pro
vided for protection of the steamer.
The Clenring House Informed its a
gents here the. food question In Serbia
was solved temporarily, but the only
way to provide real relief is fo trans
port the refugees.
PRETTY RUSSIAN
k DANCER IN AMERICA
N'
Mile. Luboc Tchentichowa.
The famous dancers of the Ballet
Russe have arrived in New York and
will make a tour of tha ccuntry.
Luboc Tchernichowa is one of the
principals of the ballet There are
seventy members in alL
VILLA OUTSIDE
THE LAW IN
1
First Chief Issues Manifesto
Declaring Open Season on
Rebel Leader and Two of
His Sub Commanders.
The proclamation of Carranza de
claring Villa and others of his follow
ers to be beyond the pale of law and
authorizing any citizen of Mexico to
arrest and . execute the bandit leader.
h
s Deen receivea
in Bisbee. It fol-
lows:
I
"I, Venustiano Carranza, first chief
of the Constitutionalist army and dej
pository of the executive power ofi
Mexico, making use of these extraordi
nary powers with which. I am vestei.
and in view of the frequency with
which outrageous crimes are being
committed by bands of outlaws scat
tered in various parts of the republic.
shall be met by severest punishment
to tose who are responsible for them.
In view of. the recent attack on a rail
way rain at a point distant eight kilom
"fer from Santa Ysabel, In the state
of Chihuahua, by bandits led by Ra-t-
Castro and Pablo Lopez, members
of the forces commanded by Francisco
Villa, under whose orders they were
operating, and. in accordance with the
trecrtent established by the constitu
tionalist government in similar cases
occurring in the past I have seen' fit
to isue the following decree:
"'Article 1. The reactionary leader
snd ex-general, Francisco, Villa, is here
hv declared to be outside the pale of
the law.'
"'Article 2. The reactionary lead
ers ex-Gen.. Rafael Castro and ex-Col.
Pablo Lopez are hereby declared to be
outside the pale of the law.'
"'Article 3. Any citizen of Mexico
Is empowered hereby to arrest the lead
era Francisco Villa, Rafael Castro and
Pablo Lopez, and to execute them
i " i rv
II C ; I '1
I I
I .si
I
I M
II i
I III
VV H. 11
r try
HO
without any formality of law.
But the
Yuma Joyous Over Senate A ction
In Voting Big Appropriation
to Cover Damages
The Residents of Colorado River Town Decline Offers of
Help from Various Parts of the Country, Feeling that Sit
uation can be Handled Ade quately by the Aid of Con
gress. New Mayor is Select ed to Fill Suddsn Vacancy.
YUWA; Jan. 25. The residents of Turna are Jccus ever the news
that the Senate passed an appropriation for $0,CGC to repair the govern
ment levee, the breaking of which cagsid the flooding of Yuma Satur
day. Frank E. Ewing, a former mayor, was elected at an extra session
of the city council to the position made vacani by the death of Mayor
Moore. The new mayor urged a bond issue to repair the streets and
r.-.ike other improvements. The Colorrc'o is slowly failing and is report
ed receding at Need'ea.
Offers of financial assistance were received in telegrams from many
parts of the United States but officials caid no outside aid was necessary
beyond the Congrecsional appropriation. The water and electric light
plants have been repaired and the work cf clearing away the flood de
bris is progressing. A large number cf homeless is still being cared for.
TurksBlock the British
Relief Expedition
Reports from Constantinople Indicate the Invaders were Re
' pulsed with Considerable L osses Whan Within Few
Miles of Kut-el-Mara. Austrians Said to be Dis
arming the Montenegrins.
LONDON, Jan. 25. Turkish repor stpte the British suffered a reverse
in their endeavor to reach the beseiged town of Kut-el-Amara. According t0
reports the Turks counter attacked the British twenty miles east of Kut-el-Amara.
and drove them back several miles with a loss of three thousand.
The Turks' loss is declared to have be comparatively light. Petrograd re
ports defeat for the Turks near Erzerum with a loss of four thousand and a
quantity of munitions.
Aside from the usual bombardments, mining operations and aeroplane K
raids, there is little fighting on any of the main fronts. Vienna asserts there
is no resumption of hostilities in Montenegro, where they declared the dis
arming of the Montenegrins was progressing without resistance.
Allied airmen again bombarded Monastir and Gievgli, one hundred is the'
estimated killed, and wounded in the latter place. The Germans dropped ex!
plosives from an aircraft on Dunkirk, where five were killed. - I
MINIRrllZF THE SIGNIFICANCE QFHOWITZEFIS MAY
CHINESE 0 U IK
Passengers from the Orient Indicate that Activity of Rebels
Against Yuan Shi Kai Amounts to Comparatively Lit
tle and Declare Monarchy is Better for Country
than Past Government.
SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 23. Passen
gers arriving from the Orient aboard
the Shinyo Maru were one in minimiz
ing the significance and proportions of
the present uprisings in China against
Yuan Shi Kai, the prospective emper
or. All agreed it was the opinion of
responsible Chineses the monarchial
government would stabilize China, and
that Yuan Shi Kai's position is tenable
from financial and military standpoints
' Yuan Shi Kai's hesitancy in formally
mounting the throne is thought to be
due to the advice of prominent Chi
nese that should the new government
ASK ENDORSEMENT
niA.iL... jan. 20. 1 ne Assemoiy.
passed a resolution requesting the
American Congress to support the a-
mendment of Senator Clarke to the bate in the House of Commons, says
Philippine Self-Government bill, which it can be safely said the government
would allow the President to recognize has no intention of accepting the Am
the independence of the Filipinos in erican proposal for a stricter blockade,
not less than two years and not more' The correspondent forecasts that the
than four years. House of Commons will take the view
jthnt a regular blockade would weaken
GERMANS NEED COPPER. J England and increase friction with neu
trals.
LONDON, Jan. 25 The official press 1
bureau statement says: "Among the 1
cargo found aboard the Swedish steam-
er Crna from New York to Copen-'
hagen, was goods described as fifteen
cases of hammers from the United
to Danish forwarding agents. They
were found to consist of fifteen cases
containing bags of copper, and brass
and apparently aluminum zlllngs turn
ings. The consignee is unknown for
for whom the alleged hammers were
intended.. They have been placed In
the prize court." I
MYSTERY SURROUNDS
SEWARD, Alaska, Jan. 25. Mystery
surrounding the Identity of castaways
marooned on Fire Island by the Cook
Inlet ic fields, was increased by infor
mation that the crew of the launch
Traveler, who were believed to be. the
men on Fire Island, are safe at Seldo
via. Efforts by rescue parties to cross
the channel and rescue the marooned
men failed.
I-
citizen performing such function shall
make a record In writing describing in
detail the occurrence and setting forth
the proofs of the identity of the out-
laws and the proof of the execution.'
fail of immediate recognition, China's
hope and belief she would be given
representation in the final peace nego
tiations between the warring nations
of Europe would not be realized.
James Thorn a b. the director of a
large mercantile business spread
throughout many provinres, said the
revolution was almost entirely confined
to the province of Yunnan. He said
the reported revolutionary activities in
the province of Sze Chuen, in Kalgan,
a city one hundred miles north of Pe
kin, were untrue, at least when he left
aDout the first of the year.
STRICTER BLOCKADE
L.O.MKJN. Jan. 5. 'ine I'arliamen-
tary correspondent to the Westminster
GszeMe. refprrine to tomorrow's de-
PROPOSAL UNSATISFACTORY
WASHINGTON. Jan. 25. Lansing Is
said to have informed Bernstorff, with
the approval of Wilson that the Unit
ed States rejected as being partially
unal!hfactory. Germany's latest pro
posal in the Lusitania negotiations.
Bernstorff and Lansing will confer to
morrow when the former is expected
to submit another tentative proposal.
After the new proposal is considered
by Wilron and Lansing It will probably
b transmitted to Berlin for considera
tion by the German government.
GERMAN FACTORY EXPLODES
LONDN, Jan. 25. A Berlin dispatch,
forwarded frcm Amsterdam by the
Central News Agency, says great dam
age was done by an explosion in a
paint factory In Offenbach. Germany.
It said a number was killed.
TWO TERMER ESCAPES
SALEM. Ore., Jan. 25. George
Clark, serving a state prison term for
burglary, escaped. A posse is hunt
ing him. He is serving his Fecond
term.
JUDGE HUGHES SAYS HE'LL NOT RUN FOR
PRESIDENT; WHITMAN URGES NOMINATION
'.: v' V. A 11 Br
si w I
fcij-i I "1
Justice IIu;hr (left) and Governor Whitman.
Led by sjth .icn u Governor Whitman of New Yori, the boom o?
Justice Charles E. Hughes for the Republican presidential nomination i
gaininj; considerable htaduay. Hughes declares, however, that he will rot
lcccdi the nomination, even if tendered him. This picture of Justice
Hughes and Governor Whitman was taken on the occasion of the reccv
meeting of -the New York Stat Bar A.for:ation.
BE DUPLICATED
III THE U. S.
Military Men Tell House MUi
tary Committee They Are
in Possession of Plans to
Equal German Big Guns.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 25. Colonel
Charles G. Treat of the Army War Col
lege told the Senate Military Commit
tee some things the American observ
ers, with the belligerent armies, were
learning in Europe. Treat and Briga-
ronoi.i Pnuisr fhiof nf nHninrc
said they had definite information a -
bout the German forty-two centimeter
howitzers. Plans for similar guns
were being prepared by the United
States War Department.
Primarily these guns will be used
for const defense, although motor trac-
tor plans for use in field operations are
being worked out. Treat said it was
unnecessary to mount the German
guns on concrete emplacements before
flrins. He declared there was no rea
son to expect that trench warfare con
ditions would have; to be met in this
country, therefore the proportion of
fcish explosive shells and shrapnel
will not be altered as radically for the
American army as the French and
British found necessary.
Treat said the American three inch
field artillery duplicated the French
seventy-fives in every respect except
the rapidity of -fire and experiments
were under way which would give the 1
American gnus all the advantages of
.. C K t
Crozier's examination by
members
of the House Committee indicated an
effort would be made to write into the
army bill definite plans to utilize pri
vate munitions factories in time of war
EDITOR IS UNAFRAID
SAN FRANCISCO. Jan. 25. Harold
Matson. the Lowell High School senior
who was expelled by the Board of Ed
ucation when he published the "Schol
astic Rebel,"' devoted to unfavorable
comment on the board, in opposition j
to military training in the schools, and
in stipnort of student control, was call
ed before the board and notified he
could not re-enter school until he dis
continued the paper.
Matson' answer was the announce
ment of an "extra" with a run of two
thousand. The "Scholastic Rebel- ap
peared when the board suspended sev
eral students recently for hazing and
abolished student control.
S2
-s
,-1
EXPERTS OFFER
T
Senate Naval Committee
Hears Varying Estimates of
Cost of Establishing Gov
ernment Armor Plate Mill.
W ASH ING TON .Jan. 25. Widely
different estimates of the cost of
building an armor plate plant for
niakiig armor were presented the
Senate Naval Committee, which is
considering Chairman Tillman's bill
fnr the establishment of a government
1 factory. R-ar Admiral Strauss. chef!' of the ouquivo Development Co
j of the naval ordinance bureau, estl-1" Amertcan concern, sixty m.les mest
j mated the cost at eleven- million tof Madera. Chthuahua. accord.ng to a
build a plant to produce annually telegram.
twenty thousand tons. A. C. Dinckey..
i president of the Midaval Steel and
Ordnance company testified It will
cost that much to build a ten thou-
sand 'ton plant. Stratuss figures the
cost of government produced armor at
$22 per ton. President Grace of the
Bethlehem Steel Co. said this state
ment was too low.
Kinrkey said the armor his plant is
producing for the Pennsylvania bat
tleship is costing $340 for one ton. It
is estimated it will take the govern
ment four years to build ' the plant.
Stratuss said It would take over three.
Tillman said the new head of the
Bureau Yards Docks reported that If
government red tape was abolished,
he could build the plant in a year
and a half. Stratuss suggested that
In addition to insuring reasonable
cost in manufacturing and erecting
111; Pkuvii nnti .it. fsan juiiiiiinn
I private manufacturers to the produc
tion of a better grade of rnior.
INQUIRY ADJOURNS
NEW YORK, Jan. 23. The naval
court of inouiry into the fatal explo
sion en the E-2 closed Its sessions. An
other witness, L. C. Miles, chief elec
trician of the craft, will be examined
after he is sufficiently recovered from
his Injuries.
UNEMPLOYED DECREASES
I PARIS. Jan. 25. The number of un-l
I omnlnvpd nf hnth sexes in Paris, whlt-h 1
(was 220.000 at the beginning of the!of 1915 mfunts to n,or than iy"1
war has been reduced to 79.447 ac- lnree """ cu.upa.ru .. un
cording to official figures. All of thec of $5,506,000 in the corresponding
unemployed comprises In the official . Quarter of 1914. Following the divi
llsts have cards authorizing them tojdend announcement, the publication
receive a government allowance of 25 , f quarterly statement bids as
cents daily. Ten cents a day is grant-1 high as eighty -six were make far
ed for each child in the family of the stock at a secret sale, presumably by
unemployed. belated bears.
REPORT SAYS
VILLA m
CHIHUAHUA
CAPITAL
Returning Americans from In
terior, State that Five Amer
icans Were Killed Before
Noted Massacre.
REBEL LEADER REPORT
ED 40 FROM THE CITY.
Twenty-five Thousand Dollars
in Gold and Silver Bullion,
Seized Two Years Ago, Re
turned by Carranza.
EL PASO, Jan. 23. Three Ameri
cans, who arrived from Chihuahua, con
firmed the previous reports of the mur
der by Mexican bandits of five Ameri
cans between December 22 and Janu
ary 9. Thee were given as Henry Ack
lin. Wallace Maiburn, Torn Johnson,
ranchers: Peter Keane, a bookkeeper
for the Babricora Ranch, and Bart
Kramer. David Kramer, father of Bart
was wounded. The latest reports stat
ed the two surviving sons had gone
into the mountains near Madera to
bring their father out.
Villa, with an estimated force of a
thousand, has been located, according
to advices from the south, in Santa
Clara Canyon, forty-five miles west of
Chihuahua City. Carranza officials,
while admitting Villa might be there,
said he could not have more than a
few hundred men.
Manuel Medinaveitia, formerly Vil
la's chief of staff, and who is suspect
! of having something to do with the
rIiopec ranee of Keane.. was admitted
to the United States by Immigration
nuthorities who stated they had no
proof the crime had been adduced a
gainst Medinaveitia.
Twenty-five bars of silver and gold
J Million, valued at $23,000. seized by
Villa on April 9. 1913. at Santa Ysabe!.
was returned by Carranza officials to
Charles Qualey, representative of an
American mining company. The bars
were found stored in Chihuahua City.
By agreement between Generals
Pershing and Gavira. commanding at
Fort Bliss and Juarez, respectively,
the guards at both ends of the interna
tional bridge were withdrawn. The
American customs officials requested
the American provost guards be re
stored. AMERICAN PROPERTY BURNED
EL PASO. Jan. 23. Fire, believed t
have been started by bandits, caused
damage estimated at $33,000 to proper-
Total Earnings of Last Quar
ter Greater than Any Other
Period of Corporation's His
tory; A Few figures.
NEW YORK, Jan. 2.1. United tates
Steel common was restored to a five
per cent dividend status when direct
ors declared Quarterly disbursement
to be ne anil one quarter per cent
out of the earnings for the last quart
er of 1915. Total earnings of the last
quarter $51.22.788. the largest in a iy
similar period in the history of the
corporation. The common dividend
amounts to $?.353,7S1 which with the
regular quarterly dividend of one and
three quarters per cent on preferred
makes a total disbursement of $12.
658.701. The corporation's financial position
is indicated by the fact that it now
has $105,000,000 in cash In the banks.
while the surplus for the last quarter
11 11 itt n PTiTrn
ill r l I 1 ! 1 1 1 11 1 lt
UII1ILU UIHILU
STEEL COMIII
PROSPERS
I
