VOLUME XXXVII.
"AT HOME" SPIRIT
PERYADES BANQUET
TURNERS AND CLUB MEMBERS
GATHER TO RUB ELBOWS AT
FEAST.
SPEAKERS REFER TO TURNER
HALL AS SOCIAL CENTER OF
NEW ULM.
When the Turner Hall Orchestra
played "Home, Sweet Home" at Turner
Hall Sunday morning at 1 o'clock, one
of the most pleasant and auspicious
functions that has ever been held at this
hall came to an end. It was the first
annual banquet of the members of the
Society and members of the Turner Club
which was recently brought into existence
and was tendered the members of both
organizations for the purpose of getting
them better acquainted with each other
and thereby creating closer and more
friendly relations. It served its purpose
well for not one of those who attended
but went away with a higher regard for
the aims of the New Ulm Turnverein in
its endeavors to maintain their place as
a social center for the citizens of New
Ulm, something it has always been since
the founding of the Society nearly 60
years ago.
Two hundred and five persons sat
down at the festive board. The banquet
.vas served in the gymnasium by the
Ladies' Society of the New Ulm Turn
verein and consisted of four courses,
young boys and girls who attend the
physical culture classes acting as waiters.
The cuisine was excellent and every one
present seemed to be in such a happy
and contented frame of mind, however,
that they did not seem to mind the wait
between courses at all. It was nearly
nine o'clock when Mine Host Johnson
lit his Havana thereby indicating that
the last course had been served and that
tlie talk?est^caukl begin*
In ms opening remarks, toastmaster
Albert Steinhauser, on behalf of the
Society thanked the club members and
their ladies for coming out and accepting
the proffered hospitality and expressed
his gratification that New Ulm business
and professional men had one and all
so cheerfully met the invitation to become
members of the club and expressed his
/•lief that there must have been some
Endeavor or other of the Turnverein
which had met with their hearty approval.
He said that under the circumstances it
might not be amiss to enlighten those
present as to the aims and principles of
the North American Gymnastic Union
of which the local Turner Society forms
a part and he stated them as briefly as
possible. He also referred to the fact
that the localTurnverein is nearly 60 years
old and said that during the entire time
of its existence the members had done
everything in their power to make their
hall asocial center for the entire citizenry
of New Ulm. He also quoted from
a pronunciamento which had recently
been issued by the National Executive
Committee giving the position of the
Turners on "Preparedness", a subject
which is agitating the minds of the
people of this country to a greater extent
than any other question. In this docu
ment they declare their belief that
systematic physical culture work among
boys and girls and men and women of
this country would prove a more effect
iv method of preparedness than the
spending of millions of dollars for ar
mament.
In view of the fact that so many of
the citizens are not familiar with the
principles of the Turners, the same are
published herewith as they were an
nounced by the toastmaster.
"The North American Gymnastic Union
is a federation of liberal and progressive
minded persons organized for the pur
pose of promoting the recognition and
the spread of opinions and ideas, the
realization of which may, according to
scientific knowledge and experience, be
assumed to advance the physical, moral,
intellectual and material welfare of man
kind as well as of every individual.
"As a means to this end we advocate
the harmonious training and culture of
body and mind because we believe that
this is one of the most important pre
requisites for establishing, preserving
and perfecting a true democracy.
"In the matter of faith and religion we
favor freedom in the broadest sense of
the word, but will at the same time strive
Jor the spread of a philosophy, based^on
knowledge of natural forces and their
effects, and seek a natural explanation
for all phenomena. It is quite natural
therefore that we consider any inter
ferenee by the State, compulsion and
discrimination on account of religion,
as well as outward marks of approval
as an invasion of the sphere of individual
freedom.
We endorse efforts tending to equalize
conditions in our economic life and it is
but natural that we view with alarm
such economic conditions that produce
the millionaire on the one hand and the
pauper and tramp on the other, es
pecially if it is self-evident that every
thing that liesbetween thesetwo extremes
is forced to the oneorthe other, upward in
small proportions and downward in
large proportions.
"We favor social institutions and legal
enactment which check the exploitation
of labor by capital and which have a
tendency to secure to the laborer the
fruits of his labor.
"We strive for better protection of the
citizens against the dangers of negligence
and recklessness in the management of
the means of transportation, etc. and of
the workingman in particular against the
dangers of their trade.
"We favor the utmost possible increase
of popular rights, the most direct par
ticipation of the people in legislation,
(Continued on last page.)
SLEEPY EYE I
IN TROUBLE AGAIN
RECEIVER TO BE APPLIED FOR IN
HENNEPIN COUNTY DISTRICT
COURT.
SELLING OF FLOUR ON RISING
WHEAT MARKET SAID TO BE
CAUSE.
Selling something like 150,000 barrels
of flour on a rising wheat market is said
to have brought financial difficulties to
the Sleepy Eye Milling company, with
head offices at Minneapolis. It was re
ported from Sleepy Eye last evening
that the appointment of a receiver would
be applied for in the Hennepin county
courts in order to bring about a settle
nsrot fnd^r^rgainjfttijfia of the filling
company.
The mill at Sleepy Eye was shut down
last Saturday and all the employes, with
the exception of the office force, laid off,
with notice that their services would not
be required for some time to come. The
mill is still buying wheat and selling flour
and probably -will continue to do so, even
should a receiver be appointed.
Wild rumors were circulated about the
financial straits of the Sleepy Eye con
cern all last week, but it seemed that the
company would be able to tide over their
difficulties once mote. It was stated
that a great many farmers had invested
heavily in milling company 3tock, but
this has been proven untrue, the story
no doubt originating in the fact that
numerous Sleepy Eye farmers have their
wheat stored at the mill elevator and will
be unable to realize it until the affairs of
the company have been more thoroughly
gone into.
A. C. Von Hagen and W. A. Anderson,
both of Minneapolis, are at the head of
the milling company, the Sleepy Eye
manager being A. W. Spehr.
The milling company has been in
trouble before, but several years ago
the present company was formed and it
was thought that the business had then
been placed upon a firm basis. To the
unexpected advance in the price of wheat
may be laid the present difficulty,
rather than to poor management.
L. B. KROOK SUCCEEDS HAGE.
At a meeting of the board of directors
of the Brown County bank last Thursday
afternoon, Emil G. Hage declined a re
election as cashier of that financial in
stitution and Lewis B. Krook was chosen
as the active head of the bank for the
ensuing year. Mr. Hage has been in ill
health for the past several months and
some time ago had decided to ask to be
relieved from his arduous duties, in
order to regain his health. In the
selection of Mr. Krook as cashier the
bank officials have made a wise choice,
as Mr. Krook enjoys not only a wide
acquaintanceship among the business
and professional men of this community,
but also of the surrounding country and
neighboring cities. For the past several
years he has held a position of trust at
the Eagle Roller Mill company's offices
and some years ago served several terms
as auditor of Brown county. He will
enter upon his new duties at the bank on
February 1st.
The following is a complete list of the
officials elected by the board of directors
last Thursday: Dr. L. A. Fritsche,
president Alb, Steinhauser, first vice
president Emil G. Hage, second vice
president L. B. Krook, cashier T. J.
Snilsberg, assistant cashier 'Miss C.
Epper, tetter W. J. Strate, bookkeeper.
OUTSIDE BOWLERS
WILL SCATTERPINS
NEW ULM TO HAVE FIRST TOUR
NAMENT HELD OUTSIDE
LARGE CITIES.
FOUR DAYS OF SPORT ARRANGED
FOR ON CONCORDIA CLUB
ALLEYS.
Knights of Strikes and Spares will
have an opportunity to show their skill
on the alleys of the Concordia club in
this city the coming week, when the first
bowling tournament ever held in South
thern Minnesota will be inaugurated.
Invitations have been sent out by the
the local club to nearly twenty Southern
Minnesota towns and it is confidently
expected that nearly every town will
furnish at least one five-man team.
These added to the five New Ulm teams
who already have signified their inten
tion of competing, will bring the num
ber of contestants to upwards of a hun
dred.
P. W. Hackbarth, who has charge of
the entries for the tournament states
that an effort will be made during the
progress of the tournament to perfect
a permanent Southern Minnesota or
ganization and to make the tournament
an annual affair, alternating between
the several cities of this section of the
state. While the larger cities of the
country are holding tournaments an
nually at which attractive prizes are
hung up for the contestants, the teams
of the smaller cities stand little or no
show to bring home the bacon, because
of the high skill of the semi-professional
players of the large cities.
The tournament next week will be
held on the alleys of the Concordia club,
which were only recently opened at the
club house. There are four new and
up-to date regulation alleys in perfect
condition. The entries for the Went
will close on January 29th and the man
agement announces that the first match
game will be called on the afternoon of
Feb. 3. They will bowl both afternoon
and evening, leaving the alleys open in
the forenoon of each day for the conven
ience of the contestants who wish to
practice.
The number and amount of the prizes
cannot be decided upon until all the en
tries have been made, as the prizes will
be cash and equitably divided according
to the number of entries. The entry
fee for each event will be $1.50 for eacch
player.
The record of the health officer shows
the city to be free from contagious dis
eases at the present time. The isolated
case of scarlet fever, reported two weeks
ago, has been released from quarantine.
?*S5u**
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, JAN. 26,1916.
HENRY BERG, COUNTY TREASURER
AGENTS SELL STOCK
FORPACKING PLANT
OUTSIDERS STEALING A MARCH
ON COMMERCIAL CLUfc
COMMITTEE.
LOCATION OF PROPOSED PLANT
IS NOT REVEALED BY
SALESMEN.
Business men, and members of the
local commercial club in particular are
looking with suspicion upon the efforts
of certain agents now at work in the
vicinity of the city among the farmers,
soliciting subscriptions for stock for a
packing plant. Although one of the
agents was cornered a few days ago by
one of the local business men and asked
where the proposed packing plant was to
be established, nothing definite could
be gained from him, except the statement
that the plant probably would be located
in some Southern Minnesota city, but
whether in New Ulm, Mankato or some
other town the agent would not state.
Members of the Commercial Club 'are
of the opinion that an organized effort
is being made by some powerful interests
to forestall the movement recently
started in this city for the building and
operation of a packing plant on the co
operative plan. Should the agents suc
ceed in inducing any great number of
farmers to subscribe for stock in their
scheme, it would no doubt have a ten
dency to hinder the carrying out of the
plans of the Commercial Club com
mittees.
The literature distributed by the
agents calls the attention of the farmers
to the successful operation of numerous
packing plants in Eastern Minnesota and
Wisconsin and if the same arguments
were used in connection with the pro
posed New Ulm plant it would be very
effective^ withythe^ farmers of the sur
rounufiig country.^
It is pointed out that the greater part
of the price paid by the consumer is used
up in marketing the live stock before it
reaches the packing plant—local buyers'
profits, railroa freight rates, terminal
charges, yardage, shrinkage, feeding,
commissions, and finally the packers'
profits. The systems in vogue in Au
stralia and New Zealand are quoted,
Ipointing out that in the case of the forme
pointing out that in the case of the former
country, the government itself builds
co-operative packing plants for the
farmers and then turns them over to
them at cost. The New Zealand govern
ment acts as commission merchants for
the farmers and furnishes cold storage at
cost.
An explanation of the activities of the
agents in this vicinity may be found in
the following clipping from a Wisconsin
paper of recent date:
"There are four co-operative packing
plants in Wisconsin, one has been in
operation, another one is just ready to
start killing, and the other two are under
construction—New Richmond and Madi
son—the capital having been practically #v\m«»«ai-n...
raised. ^eobjectiatogetenoughlocal
packing plants to handle enough of the
live stock, so that the yards in the big
terminal centers will be all sold out every
night thus causing a steady market at
all times instead of the fluctuating market sFrnwn
we now have. Only a short time ago
nearly the whole country was under
quarantine on account of the hoof and
mouth disease, and the farmers sustained
loses several times greater than the four
packing plants in Wisconsin will cost
by reason of having their -stock ready for
shipment and no more feed to feed them
and no place to ship them, and our so
called farmer friend papers have not
advised the farmers how to remedy this
evil, but are afraid they might lose the
$100 put in a local packing plant."
HOLDUPS THREATEN
NICOLLET OPERATOR
TOUGHS ATTEMPT TO
WAY INTO NICOLLET
FORCE
RAIL-
ROAD STATION.
OPERATOR USES WITS AND TELE
PHONE CENTRAL SOUNDS
ALARM.
Nicollet village had a sensation one
cold morning last week, when the tele
phone subscribers were aroused from
their slumbers about 3 o'clock, by the
ringing of the emergency call for help
and upon answering were informed by
central that the depot was being robbed.
Remembering the bank robbery of 1902
the male population of the village turned
out with loaded weapons and hurried to
the depot- Abadly scared night opera
tor was the'onlyf evidence of the visiF
of the nightly marauders, however, and
although thorough search was made of
the vicinity no trace of the robbers was
found.
The story told by Night Operator
Johnson to a representative of the
Review is substantially as follows: He
went on duty about 1:45 in the morning
and had just completed a train order,
when he noticed two tough looking
characters on the west end of the station
platform. Their appearance at that
unusual hour of the night aroused his
suspicions and he locked the door leading
to the office. The window to the hall
way was open, however, and the two men
lounged near it for some time, before one
of them asked the operator to open the
door, saying they wanted to get nearer
to the stove. Johnson refused and then
picked up the telephone to call central
for help. Here is where one of the men
began to unlimber his artillery and gave
the operator an opportunity to look
down into the business end of a revolver,
with the command to leave the phone.
The operator, although badly scared
had his wits about him and told the
would-be hold-ups that his station was
being called at the key
long distance,
of Kasota.
They did not
the men, however, for they hastily left
the station and were gone several
minutes when the first of Nicollet's armed
citizens appeared on the scene
the visitors, but it is said that one set
of tracks led to a camp several miles from
the village, but the campers deny know
ledge of strangers appealing in
vicinity.
While some of the villagers are of the
belief that the visitors at the depot were
nothing but a couple of drunks, return
ing from a spree, either at Courtland or
New Ulm, the operator does not care
to have the experience repeated, al
though the men threatened to return at
some future and more opportune time.
Since the bank robbery of a dozen
years ago the Nicollet telephone office has
a regular emergency call, through which
every subscriber is called in cases of fire
and robbery or other instances requiring
^assistance of the dtizens^and robbers
might do worse than to stay away from
that town.
object and he "cut in" on a message by
the train dispatcher, told that official of been engaged for the occasion
his plight, and asked him to have the booths will be erected in t]
Nicollet telephone central called on the sides the usual tents for gypsies and other
This was done by way
Something in the actions of the opera- dressed in the uniform*of the Red Cross,
tor must have aroused the suspicions of
There was a heavy snowfall during the success from a financial point of view is
night, obliterating any tracks made by the prediction of Mr. Schaub, who states
that the doors will be opened with a
clear profit of over $4,000 already as
sured, not taking into consideration the
that receipts to be expected during the three
days. It is being freely predicted that
the net receipts will surpass by far the
amount realized at the recent St. Paul
bazaar, at which about $8,000 was
cleared. The Mankato bazaar is being
considered as a Southern Minnesota
affair and all the cities in the southern
part of the state are taking an active
interest in its success.
The ice harvest on the Cottonwood
river win full blast, both of the breweries
laying in a large supply.
*WWWl)IHliiMiMi»'
LOCAL PEOPLE AID
RED CROSS BAZAAR
O 1 E
E OF LADIES GATHER
TO SEND
MANKATO.
ARTICLES
1
I
S E O N
TO
REGIMENT BAND WILL-
ACCOMPANY NEW ULM
DELEGATION.
Citizens of New Ulm, desirous of giving
aid to Germans and Austrian&now suffer
ing on account of the world war raging
in Europe, will be giving an opportunity
to make such donations as they see fit,
either by contributing money or articles
of wearing apparel, for the bazaar to
be held at Mankato next week under the
auspices of the Red Cross Relief asso
ciation.
Messrs. Arthur Schaub and John Kohl
man of Mankato were in New Ulm last
Saturday and met with a delegation of
local ladies, who have in the past taken
an active interest in relief work of this
this kind, at the Dakota house parlors.
Those present at the meeting were: Mrs.
Ida Ozias, Miss Ida Heers, Mrs. C. C.
Reim, Miss Emma Gebser, Mrs. Anna
Maltzahn, Mrs. F. W. Johnson, Miss
Johanna Stork, Mrs. Wm. G. Alwin, Miss
Clara Steinhauser, Mrs. Geo. Mayer
Mrs. Karl Wiedl, Mrs. Spreng, Miss El
frieda Toberer and Mrs. Martin Hose.
Both Mr. Schaub and Mr. Kohlman ex
plained the object of the Mankato ba
zaar and asked for the co-operation of
the New Ulm ladies in the way of do
nations of money or articles to wear,
to be offered for sale at the bazaar or to
be sent direct to the several relief organi
zation in Austria and Germany.
The ladies present immediately began
the organization of a body which is to
have charge of the local campaign for the
bazaar by the election of the following
officers and the appointment of several
committees: Mrs* Ida Ozias? president*
Miss Emma Gebser, secretary, and Mrs.
C. G. Reim. treasurer. Ticket commit
tee, Mrs. Ozias, Miss Heers and Mrs.
Maltzhan. Committee to receive goods
and other donations, Miss Gebser, Mrs.
Alwin and Mrs. Maltzahn.
The Mankato gentlemen announced
that the bazaar management had desig
nated next Tuesday, Feb. 1, as New Ulm
day and efforts are now being made by
the local committee to assure a large at
tendance. It is proposed that the people
from New Ulm go in a body, taking the
3:39 going east and returning on the
midnight train. The bazaar manage
ment proposes to keep open house until
time for the train, thus avoiding a dis
agreeable wait at the depot.
At a meeting of the executive com
mittee held at Mankato Monday even
ing it was decided to engage the services
of the Second Regiment band of this
city and this famous musical organiza
tion will accordingly accompany the
New Ulm contingent next Monday after
noon. They will furnish concert music
during the balance of the afternoon and
evening at the bazaar.
The bazaar will be held on Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday of next week
and the spacious Mankato armory has
wm"
At Huron, S. D. last week occured
the death of Mrs. Catherine Dineen,
id of a el in
0 he
he 8
in
7 6 6 8 of
-£»4
Fourteen,
booths will be erected in the hall, be
classes of fortune tellers. Over one
hundred of Mankato's pretty girls, all
preside at these booths and offer
for sale the wares contained therein.
The entire basement will be occupied by
a German restaurant and lunch room.
That the bazaar will be a decided
well-known
Dineen? widow of Michael
of this city, having
resided here during the latter sixties
and early seventies. The family remov
ed to Huron in 1880, where they have
«*»ded. Mrs. Dineen was about
*&'
he
rm.^o
***&
returned from a trip to the Pacific coast. fcfe
jt?09&mi
