mm
P mm*
Farmers'Coorse
March 8-14
VOLMUE XXXV.NUMJ5
WILL NORTH 4
COLLEGE SUCCEED?
Of Course it Will, if Everybody Helps
and Nobody Shirks.Still Neces-
sary to Raise $11,000.
ONLY FOUR WEEKS MORE
LEFT FOR WORK.
Friends of the College are Urged to
Come to its Rescue Now and
Make its Future Secure.
Will North Star College succeed in
raising the $27,000 required to secure
the $9,000 donation from Hon. James
J. Hill That is the question which'
all true friends of the college are*
^-asking themselves these days And
well may they ask that question now
with a great deal of anxiety, in as
much as the time limit coupled with
Mr. Hill's offer, will expire March
1st. In the article published by the
board three weeks ago, it was stated
that $13,000 more was needed. Not
a great deal has been received since
that time.
A movement has been started to
secure the co-operation of the grad
uates of the institution in this great
work. A letter has been written to
each alumni asking for a contribution
of ten dollars or more. As there are
131 graduates, it is hoped that from
this source at least $1,000 may be
raised. The Board has also sent out
5000 circular letters asking for con
tributions. The replies to these let
ters come in slowly, and are accom
panied by small remittances general
ly? yet it is hoped that from this
source another $1000 may be obtain
ed. That leaves $11,000 yet to be
raised, provided the money from
these various sources is all paid in.
The subscription work to date there
fore stands as follows:
Hon James J. Hill $9,000.
Subscriptions received by Rev.
Anderson, solicitor 7,000.
Subscribed by 'Board of Di
rectors 7,000.
Expected {from AhufflK feg.'. 1,000.
Refarr^&-frtite 500^$r^!n^c
ters (estimated) 1,000.
Total $25,000.
From the above it is seen that the
college is yet a long way from the
coveted goal. $11,000 must be raised
within the next four weeks, or the
college will lose Mr. Hill's donation.
Will the friends of the school in this
city and thruout the Red River Val
ley allow this to be done Will the
failure to raise $11,000, which is less
than the value of a quarter section of
land, be the death blow to the insti
tution
Former President O. E. Abraham
son, now of St Paul, writes as fol
lows:
'I trust that the good people of
Warren and the Red River Valley will
really put their shoulders to the bur
den and give a hard push for just a
little while. I wish I could say the
words that would spur them on. If
they could see themselves as others
see them, they would not hesitate a
moment. How would it be if the
people would levy amounts against
themselves in proportion to their
taxes. Those who have taxes a
hundred times more than others pay
a hundred times as much to the col
lege. One more supreme effort, and
the first period in the early history
of North Star College comes to a
successful close. Keep on. The goal
is soon reached and then a mighty
,jcheer for the members jof the Board
and all who have helped* in the great
work."
A township represents the entire
debt of the college$1,000 on each
section. 25 sections of debt are pro
vided for. Who will remove the debt
from section 26? Who from section
27? 28? 29? 30? etc.
Where there is a will there is a
way. If every friend of the college,
comes to its assistance now, as gener
ously as possible, then the fight is
won. But don't delay. See or write
Rev F. N. Anderson, the financial
secretary, Warren, Minn., about your
contribution, and do it at once.
Board of Directors,
North Star College,
Warren, Minnesota
t&
Breeders' Association Elects Officers.
At the annual meeting of he Mar-
shall County Livestock Breeder^ As
sociation on Jan. 22, the following
officers were re-elected: L. O. Hun
ger, president W. H. Grange, vice
president J. S. Hilleboe, sectetary
and C. L. Spaulding, treasurer. The
membership of the association is in
creasing. Efforts are being made to
co-operate in shipping in a carload of
pure bred livestock, with a view of
improving the livestock on the forms
in the county.
Commercial Club Meeting.
At a meeting of the Warren Com
mercial Club on Friday evening,
Mayor C. Wittensten was appointed
a committe to appear with similar
committees from the northern Red
River Valley counties before the
State Highway Commission to urge
the laying out of the Jefferson High
way thru these counties. The Jeffer
son Highway is to extend from New
Orleans to Winnipeg and it has al
ready been laid out in this state from
the southern boundary of the state
to Bemidji. The best and most
feasible route from there is thru
Crookstron, Warren, Argyle, Stephen
and Hallock, and the work of these
committees will be to impress this
fact upon the Highway Commission.
At this meeting a new hotel com
mittee was appointed, consisting of
R. C. Mathwig, Dr. W. S. Anderson
and A. Swandby.
A committe consisting of W. O.
Braggans, J. A. Grindeland and C.
W. Erickson was appointed to make
arrangements for the Commercial
Club banquet to be held in the near
future.
The matter of organizing an auto
mobile club was also taken up and
considered.
Sheriff Hanson is attending to of
ficial matters at Holt today.
During the year 1915 Clerk of
Court Swandby has issued 156
marriage licenses.
Cupid has been asleep at his post,
probably because this is leap year,
as nobody has taken out marriage
licenses since the last report.
Superintendent of Schools Johnson
returned Tuesday from St. Paul,
where he attended a meeting of the
state rural school commission, of
which body he is a member.
The following have received war
rants for wolf bounties since the
last report: Arne Bernstein, Chas.
Moe, Gust Saxvald, Tom Severson,
Tqrjrar SordalJ^nto Paulson. J& R.
Monrok, Andrew Sjoquist, Gilbert
Lee, Harold Olson, Albert Swanson,
Andrew Marken, Rasmi Lund, John
Hohster, M. N. Gullickson and H.
Launderville.
County Engineer Lind urges all
town officers to attend the "good
roads" day at the Farm Crops Show
at Crookston, Feb. 9th. Prominent
authorites on road work will address
the meetings. Pres. Vincent of the
university will speak in the evening.
Part of the program will be given to
discussions of road work in different
counties. Mr. Lind will speak of
the road work in Marshall county.
Approximately $47,000 will be
spent for road work in the county
during the coming year. Of this
amount $25,000 will be used for con
struction of state highways and $7,-
000 will be spent for their mainten
ance. $15,000 has been appropriated
for work on county roads and
bridges. The above appropriations,
which total $47,000, places Marshall
county among the leading counties
of the state in the construction of
roads.
Real Estate Transfers.
The following real estate transfers
have been recorded by Register of
Deeds Chas. E. Grinder between
Jan. 14 and 20:
Edward Sorenson to Axel K. An
derson, lots 3, 4, and 5, block 3 Vik
ing, $1,000.
Ira B. Bradford to Joseph Gagnon,
lots 1, 2, 3, 4, block 25, Wm. Add.,
Argyle, $100.
Argyle Imp. Co. to Joseph Ganon,
lots 20, block 25, Wm. Add. Argyle,
$110.
Wm. "Mueller to A. W. Headrick,
nw% sec. 6, town of Bloomer, $1.00
R. D. V. Carr to Geo. G. Allinson,
nw& sec. 11, Thief Lake, $3,200.
Northern Townsite Co. to Sam
Mickelson, lots 5 and 6, block 9 Holt,
$350.
Ira B. Bradford to J. E. Cook, lots
1, 2, 11 block 5, Culb. Add., Argyle,
$60.00
Lars A. Sagstuen to Lulu D. Hal
vorson, riVz sw?4, sec. 4, Mud Lake,
$307.19.
Lulu D. Halvorson to Ingeborg
Norbeck, n% sw%, sec. 4, Mud Lake,
$1050.
Thos. J. Bowman to J. Sullivan nw
sec *28, Eckvoll, $1.00 $
Union Con. Ch. Argyle to Henry E.
Tiedt, part of lot 12 block 16, Culb.
Add. Argyle, $975.
Frank Lindauer to Murray Wol
bach, e%, sec. 14, town of Foldahl.
Murray Wolbach to Lars Johnaoji,
eYs sec. 14, Foldahl, $2,560.00 ^g|
Willie N. Benson to Geo. B. Benson,
nw%, sec. 14, town of Augsburg.
CR00KST0N FARM
CROPS SHOW
in Prizes. Marshall Co. Farmers
Will Try to Win Many.
day.
Northern Section.
Big Premium List Offers Over $5,000 The Marshall County Live Stock
The premium list for the Ejifth An
ual Farm Crops show, Feb. 7-12, has the 'Marshall County Live Stock
been issued and can be secured by ad- Breeders association held at the Corn-
dressing C. H. Zealand of the Minne- mercial Club rooms in the city of
sota Red River Valley Development, Warren on Saturday, Jan. 29th at 2
Association. A splendid list of prem- o'clock" p. m.
iums is offered. The total value of the The movement for better stock is
premiums offered is something over warmly supported by many farmers,
$5,000 and the sweepstakes premiums and the local banks are joining hands
alone amount to $1,300, including with the farmer to encourage the
$100 in gold for the sweepstakes for good work they are offering money
wheat, given by Congressman Steen- [in liberal quantity at a low rate of
erson The major portion of the prem- interest to those who may not have
iums were donated by Twin City and ready cash to invest in pure bred
Duluth firms, with contributions from 'stock.
many large manufacturers in the There are a few facts worthy of
East, who recognize what a splendid consideration in connection with our
work is being accomplished by the present day farming. With the pres-
Annual Farm Crops Show held at ent demand for grains of all kinds
Crookston, which last year was the the outlook for the future in that
biggest exclusive farm crops show line is good and to break away from
held in the entire United States, and it abruptly might be folly. But the
this year promises to be even larger, 'outlook for the future in beef and
Last year Crookston's new Armory dairy stock is equally good. Why
was used for the show, but this year then, not begin right now to stock
even that monster building will not up and be prepared to get the benefit
provide room for the exhibits and i of the good in the future predicted
program and the Pure Food Co. block for stock. One bumper crop may
adjoining has been leased for the flood the market with grain and
week and will also be used, while the 'make that kind of farming unprofit-
new Presbyterian church directly able, but it takes years to build up a
across the street will be used for the' good herd of stock. Begin now and
Women's meetings and the kitchen
pig, hog watter, value $52.50.
Reserve premium oats, $20 Winnega
farm gate.
Best two quarts barley, 4 Hudson
& Thurber stanchions, $40.
Best peck potatoes, Fairbanks scale
$45.
tbegin
and dining room in the same churcV breel about as cheaply as a scrub,
will be used for demonstration in .Why 'then, cling to the unprofitable
modern cookery, equipped with every scrub
modern utensil made to lighten the) Any one who has a desire to get
burdens of the housewife. better Stock are welcome to attend
In addition to the regular prem- the meeting and make his wants
iums, and $465 in cash to be given to known. The association was made
farmers from the ten counties ($45 to benefit you not to draw a revenue
to each county) the following sweep- from you. We are ready to serve
stakes premiums were announced to- y0u. Come and be with us.
Best 30 ears corn, $200 towards an nfj BOXVILLE FARMERS' CLUB.
Interlocking Cement Stave Silo. "s
Playford Cement Silo. evening of entertainment an0 socia-
Best 10 ears, Free Sewing Machine,
froReserve Congressman tS
(Continued on page four)
bilit
?^^H It*
WARREN, MARSHALL COUNTY, MINNESOTA WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1916. $1.50 PER YEAR IN ADVANCE.
FOR MORE STOCK
AND BETTERSTOCK
Breedere Assn. Active in Promot-
Interests of Stock Raising.
There will be a special meeting of
right. You may feed a pure
S Hilleboe, Secretary.
On the evening of Jan.
members of the Boxville
Best 10 ears corn, $75 cream sepa
rator.
Southern Section. _
.d.n^A, ^J* X. Cluhhad an exceptionally largejmm-
Besmears 4 ^m ^^^^^^^^itl^^^J^
18th the
Farmers'
or i
I During the business meeting, the
Non Sectional Sweepstakes. 'evening of Friday, Feb. 4th, was de-
Reserve premium, 30 ears corn, $25 cide
upo
tn
SU
^ate
seteel farm gate. entertainment followed an oyste C*"'
Reserve premium, 10 ears corn, $25 pp er
Northrup-King seeds. I The literary program was compos-
Best single ear corn, U. S. Cream
Mis
up
Olson, shrubbery $25. (Both discoursed upon the importance
Best^ two quarts oats, Berkshire
th
fbry
mus
Separator, $30. |aTi(j talks by Miss Anna Costello of
Best two quarts wheat, $100 in gold th
cialr
a spe
i by the primary pupils
Hig
cnoo
an
premiumSteenersonHolm wheat, &
i Normal Department
Rankin,of Assistant County spools Marshal County
Farmer's Club as a social and
educational center and its importance
in the general upbuilding of the com
munity
The next meeting will be held on
Tuesday evening, Feb. 1st. A cordial
invitation is extended to all and do
not fail to attend the special enter
tainment on the Friday evening fol
lowing.
Treat Seed Grain for Smut.
Grain smut causes a great deal of
loss to farmers nearly every year.
Smut not only reduces the yield per
acre but also lowers the grade, thus
compelling farmers to accept 10 to
20 cents a bushel less for their crop.
Last year there was more smutty
wheat raised than usual and this in
dicates that farmers are getting
careless about treating their seed
grain for this disease. Treating
seed grain with a solution of formal
dehyde will obviate this loss almost
entirely. A pamphlet fully describ
ing the treatment may be obtained
by those interest from C. E. Stinch
field, superintendent of the Atlantic
Elevator Co., this city.
T. E. Moulton Has Passed Away.
T. E. Moulton, the well known
pioneer citizen and during many
years past, grain buyer at March
siding, died at the city hospital yes
terday morning, from pneumonia
following an attack of la grippe. An
obituary will be published next
week.
The funeral will be conducted
from the Presbyterian church tomor
row (Thursday) afternoon at two
o'clock.
North Star College Notes
W. G. Calderwood spoke to a large
and attentive audience last Monday
evening.
Bernhard Lundquist, of Argyle,
made us a pleasant visit last Mon
day. Byron Lundquist, of this city,
accompanied him.
The Faculty have issued invita
tions to a reception given by them to
day evening, Jan. 31
Miss Hultgren, of Kennedy, visit
ed with her brother David between
trains Tuesday morning,
en route from Minneapolis
the students of the college next Mon- cation. From Philadelphia, with
every element for universal endorse
ment conies the suggestion of Thrift
Day, February 3rd. The primary
She was point is not whether the idea is abso
lutely new, but whether it is practi-
TABOR STORE DESTROYED
BY FIRE ON FRIDAY.
A. Palya & Co.'s General
chandise Store and Post
Office Total Loss.
Coming Tuesday
Stage" in five acts.
The basket ball team met the 'iCaiiy susceptible of useful application.
Crookston Aggies on their floor last The celebration of Thrift Day lies
Monday evening. We are sorry to {n the faithful performance by each
say that our boys suffered a defeat.j individual of some thrifty action on
Get in line for another game with that day. The very simplicity of the
Stephen on Friday evening. They'idea will go a long way toward its
are coming here to-play their return [successful development, and this de-*^^^""
game as they have no place to stage
a game.
The annual meeting of the Red Ri
ver District is held at Alvarado
today Prof. Sjostrand and Mr.
Aug. Lundgren represented the col-
On Saturday evening of this week' servance of Thrift Day this year, so
the Thief River Falls basket ball that there will be a fitting standard
team will come here to play. This is
another fast game and will naturally
bring out those that are interested.
Come and help the boys.
The next number of the Warren
Lecture course comes off on February includes the utilization of common
11. Marie Gjertsert Fischer, reader,
ipp
A NEW KIND
OF HOLIDAY
The Observance of Thrift Day, Feb.
Third, is Not Confined to Any
Race, Class or Denomination.
ALL CAN CELEBRATE
AND REAP BENEFITS.
As a Nation we Need to be Taught
to Save as Well as to Spend
More Wisely
Thrift Day, February 3rd, is unique
as a holiday, in that its proper obser
vance is a vastly different and far
more beneficial one to the individual
than the usual celebration of the
average holiday. On this day the
even tenor of things goes on busi
ness is developed and financial in
stitutions remain open to do their
share in the celebration. There is no
cessation of progressive activities
familiar to most holidays, and which
frequently result in reckless waste of
both time and money.
Another feature is that it is the
only holiday not confined to any race,
religion or class. In its final develop
ment it is neither national, sectional,
regional or factional, but can be cele
brated by all humanity, to the ulti
mate and lasting benefit of individ
uals, communities, nations and the
world.
Economists for years have been
agreed on the increasing evidences of
waste on the part of the average
person, but the remedies advanced
have been various, and frequently
too impractical for successful apph-
velopment will mean a mighty step
forward to better conditions for
everybody.
For this reason, leaders in all
fields of activity, particularly finan
cial institutions, are co-operating to
make memorable the first amnual ob-
to be followed on the Thrift Days to
come.
While the saving of money is one
very desirable feature, this is not the
essential basis of thrift. It actually
sen
and Meta Schumann, soprano and earnings, the use of time and the
pianist, will give us a pleasant eve- cultivation of temperate habits. From
ning. Do not forget the date, Feb. each of these qualities a lesson might
11th.
Mer
A. Palya & Co 's big general mer
chandise store building at Tabor eventually reduce that latter element
was with it contents, destroyed by to an insignificant percentage of the
fire on Friday afternoon.
The fire started at the back part
of the store and spread so rapidly
that practically nothing in the store The very essence of honesty is the
was saved. A small part of the [living within one's means,
stock was stored in a small ware
house adjoining the store and part
of the stock in the room was saved.
As soon as it became evident that
the fire could not be gotten! u$nd|f
control Mr. Palya and his clerks di
verted their energies to saving the
mail and postoffice records and sup
plies which were in the store, Mr.
Palya being the postmaster. All of
these were saved.
The loss of building and stock is
estimated at about $15,000 upon
which there was insurance to the
amount of about $6,000.
Mr. Palya states that the postoffice
and part of the stock has been re
moved into a small building and the
business will be continued in these
temporary quarters until spring
when the store will be rebuilt.
Tabor is a little trading center in
the northwestern part of Polk coun
ty and on account of the richness of
the farming country the Tabor store,
did a thriving business. The store
was started nineteen years ago as a
farmer's cooperative store but after
running as such for two or three
years was purchased by A. Palya &
Co., who have conducted the business
ever since. ^j|f^##/ftf^vh
"On the Night
se in three thingsthe use of
profitably be taken by many.
Statistics show that the lack of
thrift is more concerned in the mak
ing of poverty than deficiency in
wages. Thus it is that every thrifty
person may be considered as a public
benefactor, and every thriftless per
son a public enemy. Society is split
in two classesthe provident and im
provident The annual observance of
Thrift Day is confidently expected to
population. Careful estimates show
that the percentage is now heavily on
the wrong side of our national ledger.
In the use of time, how many are
there who fully realize that time
once gone is lost forever? The thrif
ty individual does today what he
could do tomorrow. He utilizes his
time in his youth that he may have
it to spare in old age. Common sense
in the distribution of one's time is
a powerful factor in thrift and Thrift
Day offers the opportunity to practice
it.
SOO PASSENGER TRAIN
KILLS TWO WOLVES.
The Soo Line west bound passenger
train ran over and killed two wolves
Friday morning, about two miles east
of this city. Several young men
from this city walked out to the
scene of the accident and brought
the carcasses in and collected $15
in bounty from the county.^ The
killing by the Soo netted the boys a
neat sum of money.
TT Notice.
The annual meeting of the Mar
shall County Fair Association will be
held Thursday evening, Feb. 3, at 8
o'clock at the commercial club rooms.
All stockholders and other interested
in the welfare of the association are
urged to attend.
.E. T. Frank, SecyJ
i
