THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX NO. 2G7.
RARRE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1910.
riUCE, ONE CENT.
EVERY ATTACK
WAS REPULSED
BY GERMANS
STEAMER NORSEMAN
ONLY REACHED
No Lives Were Lot, According to Re
port Received by Lloyd's in
' London.
ACCUSED MAN
TELLS STORY
mo sieamsiilli Aorseiiian. rei
teroay as sunk, lias been beached ana no
lives were lout.
jt rencn JViaae Many JliUUI U The Norseman is owned by the Domin-
. t rr Una T ac. ion company and. according to agent of
tO KeCOVer IrenCneS JiOSl the International Mercantile company,
. t-, i. ... .in-XTn-. " oeen """Vr dinner to the British
iaSl 01 INeUVliie UUV vvctc admiralty since Dec. -5.
Driven Rack After Hand-
to-Hand Fkhting audhua iiAiuuua
UNITED STATES
London, Jan. 2(1. Lloyd'a report says trQlrt, TTOT,U Talnfoo
o steamship Norseman, reported vex- BJW IliUCn lieiaieS Ifle
Events Prior to Death
HUGE MARBLE CONCERN.
Capitalized at $6,000,00011 Will Take
Over Independent Interests.
Rutland, Jan. 2(1 At the annual meet'
ing of tlie Green Mountain Marble com
pany, lit'ld in this city yesterday it was
uiiuounced Unit I lie project to console
date practically all of the so-culled ill'
INJURY IN GAME
PROVED FATAL
WAS PROMINENT
RUSINESS MAN
of Sumner Brown
DESCRIBED TRIP
TO DANVILLE FAR1V
GERMAN HEADQUAR
TERS MAKES REPORT
Italy
Wants to Enow What We are Going to
Do About Italian Steamship Which
Arrived at New York with
Two Guns Mounted.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 20. Baron
State Alleges That He Shot
Brown on Return to
St Johnsbury
St. Johnsbury, Jan. 20. Harlow Hatch
IS baiQ 10 tie L-OnSUI- u .an 5 d . d t charged with manslaughter in connection
prntilv fYinpprnpd O V e r 8t,lt8 department what the United States with the killing of Sumner Brown in
exduiy uiicciiicu v illten,k.d to do in tho ca of tl)e Ita,.tllig pIace ,llst Julyf took tlie 8tnnJ in
AUStria S Advance SOUUl- """nip verona which armed at own defense this forenoon when the
New ork several days ago with two . . ,. , . ,
ward on Adriatic Coast, k11"8 mounted at her stem
Seaport in Albania Being
Captured "
SAFE-BLOWERS IN MAINE.
Stole $400 Government Property in Scar-
board Postoffice. .
case against him was reopened in Cale
donia county court. Hatch's testimony
before tho court adjourned at noon, was
concerned with a story of an automobile
trip which he took on the day of the al
leged killing. In the car he went with
Y
Knarhnar,! Mo .T,m on tt tnf. others to the home of Charles Thompson
. . flee and treneral store of Goortre W. A'viiie ana m l nompson s aosenee ne
Berlin, via t,onaon, jan. io. . . Df . , t,r . . idrew
number of counter-attacks were made by wag entcred about 2 yesterday morning
the French yesterday to recapture we by burglars, who stole about $400 worth
a pitcher of cider in what was
known as tho apple room. The party
then started for St. Johnsbury on the
return trip home and Hatch had do-
trenches taken by the German, east of of government property and goods from "P - had do
. . iriiA urnra nnr nviirtiwiL mi . . in mitati i . -
KeuvUle, but they were reputed eacn ,,; .,,n " . .. '' 9 Joes brook road, when the
time after hand-to-hand fighting, says Mown wng heard at the hon0 of court took a recess. It is alleged by the
statement issued to-day by the German ji, C. Johnson, who aroused Mr. Knight ta.te, tlm.t the. "hooting occurred after
.army headquarters staff. and his clerks. Mr. Knight, Mr. John- "
I son, itaymona ieary ana esion fnow,
The position of the British govern- armed with guns, scoured the roads in l&rpn Tr'T A rTTkTTXTT
ant on two matters of prime impor- " vicinity, but no trace of the two SlKlUl ALLUUJM-
ARlLITi TO BE
. . . .. . tn men who were seen to leave the store
tance in tue conduct m ie r '" could be found.
lie determined as the result ot proceed- ThtJ burglars used nitroglycerin, and
inirs under way to-day. The attitude it is believed, must have been to some
of labor toward compulsory, military degree familiar with the place. That
service will be decided at a conference I they left finger prints on the window
in Bristol, and the debate on the ques- and elsewhere leads the olheers to be-
INSISTED UPON
tion of the blockade of Germany is be-
fore the House of Commons.
The British conference is the most im
portant of this, kind ever held in Eng
land, representing more than 2,000,000
lieve they could not have been experts.
MONTPELIER
th Bernstortf, the German ambassador, dur
a ronicrence iaie yesieruav at lue
New Hitch Developes in the Negotiations
Between United States and Ger
many Over the Lusitania.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 20. Tlie" l iiit
ed States is understood to have reject
ed, as benur nartlv unsatisfactory, (icr-
trade union members. The compulsory Body of Benjamin J. Magoon Taken to many's latest proposal in the Lusitania
military service bill, having passed the Ellenbur? Center. N. Y. negotiations. Secretary Lansing with
Commons and encountered little oppo-1 - . the annroval of Preshle.it VVilin U
ition in the House of Lord., t . out- r ' - ..id to have so informed Count Von
nniA of tiui mntr eamnaicn on rni is- i wu..v . t ....... u.
sue will depend largely on the attitude '"K. were taken last evening oyer the .
of organized labor, ibere are unomciai VV: ta department.
mtimations that, we isritisn government t1' ".r"'",. v " T In manv mirticulars. the suwested
ha. decided against a formal blockade xnurs .ay ai tne etnoa,w ciiurcn a;re,;mcnt dcsii?n(11 to
n i wirn miriai in t r town. a nravftr . . " . " - -
TZX... n tb,. Uervice war held at the home It his ?l which was submitted
coast of the Adriatic having passed
yond the Montenegrin border
",e AYbaniaVn 6t o VanaoTnni d People's Jhch ' orating! Those who upon holding the German govorn
M,ilban" intXf th accompanied the body to Kllenburg were . -.!t l""11"! ,.for
Italian trovTrnnien t U concerned at the Ernwt Colburn of Manchester, N. H., a ,""8."t u'"re ' f,w' ,?1M"lw
V n.JeIn?e.nL 9. Ti""!. ft it6 son. and Mr., and Mrs. A. H. Webb of lan desires that the Berlin government
ward along the Adriatic but there are n'8 c'ty-
no indications that further measures to ' ,
j oppose the Teutonic forces are under IIon- John E. W eeks of Middlebury ar-
,way. It is said that no alarm is felt rived in the city this morning for a brief
in Home for Avlona, which has been ""-- "
occupied by Italian troops or for Buraz
dependent niarbld interests of Vermont Tflmoa Q Milno Ti q T?ari'P
had assumed definite shape. The United JameS b- Alllne, Jr., a Uane
Young Man, Died
in Boston
Marble coiupanies, incorporated, under
the laws of Massachusetts, with $(i,l)00,
OW capital, has been incorporated bv
1'. K. i'.uton of titchlmrg, Mass., M. J,
('-ashman of Boston and Abbott S. l'ond
of Boston. Mr. Katoii, whu has been
prominently identilied with many big Ati PH'MPTTQQTn'M
interests, lumber in addition to marble, ur UiMVUOOlUiN
will lie president of the new company,
and will devote his entire time to this
enterprise
Tia corjioration Immediately succeeds
(Kith tlie tireen Mountain Marble com
jiany and the Columbian corporation,
winch companies cease to exist, and as
fast n. the details can be arranged other
communes will be consolidated 'under
the general ownership end direction of
tho new company.
J he linancmi; of the new corporation
hag been a fleeted by Mr. Pond, a former
resident of Kutland, for and in the in
terests of his banking firm
Cashman & Co., of Boston
Arthur S. Martin Died Last Night After
Brief Illness with Pneumonia. He
Wa. Born in Northfield 46
Years Ago.
Arthur S. Martin, ono of the most
prominent of the younger business men
of Barre, died ut his home, 43 Park
street, late last night after an illness of
one week with trrin and pneumonia. He
was taken ill with a cold a week ngo
yesterday, but three day. later he wad
HTT1 TUT? T3PATM ablo to be about the house and seemed
to be on tho road to recovery until Mm
day when pneumonia developed and lii
condition became very serious. A coun
ITa Woe AtfonrKnrr "RncrAn eil of physicians wai held, at which it
. was decided that the chance of recovery
University lhe BOdy was largely dependent upon the strength
oi ine uean. Aiiiiougii lie pnnweu n tvi;
bad day yesterday it was not thought
Comes To-morrow
that his vendition was critical till evening,
when there was a sudden turn for the
worse. It is probable that heart failure
A teWram received bv City Clerk was the immediate cause of death
" " " t-i I 1
AiLiuir r-ievi'im iti.tri.iii hub uwi
New-
He
occurred smut his early life in that town and
man s came with his parents to Barre when Iu
I . . .... 1 il u a . .1 1 i in . rt.i a n . n r.M , Hn T u til I 17
being one of the most Substantial in the m.W was due to concussion Of oeeiinvinir th Mnrtin linme farm on the
country, this banking house in past brain which developed from an injury to r,,, , .., . (f0,i,i
years has handled many large industrial the left-aide of his head which he re- fJr,.en Mountain s. minary at Waterbury
, Hotlgdon, Jamesfackay late yesterday afternoon, -nuj- ees r
lhe tinan-1 brought tidincs of tho death in Boston nfuwi. w..i,tn m;
!... ...nil . , ... . I v"" i..fcii r ......
..... iro,Uiit-B 1. .a m- cuiinittujr m of jameg s. Milne, jr., which 0(
be made entirely ample to carry out . , . ,.
the extensive prV.jectthe Boston firm aro,,nd 4:30 ot,otk- Ti,e you,W
underwriting., being specialists in Ma.
sachusetts corporations and at present
the the largest house of their kind in
New tnghuid,
WILL KEEP TO WORK
PENDING EFFORT
ccived while playing basketball Saturday Center and after graduating there en
with a Boston university team in its t,,rt'd Ooddard seminary, from which, lie
... . , , was graduated in 1801, being later chosen
game with a team from Tufts college. ft of the in,tit,utions
With him in the hour of death were his For a g(.ore 0f yearg Jle regjied in this
parents, Mr. and Mrs. James 8. Milne ol city, marrying, on Ot. 24, 1000, Miss
53 Liberty street, and his brother, Wal- Cora E. Mann. He engaged in the wood
' ' 1 ! 1 i 1 1 ..
tiT h. jkiilne, who is a clerk hi tlie em-1 - 'in t 'I t .
AT SETTLEMENT ,,l0y 0f th? Barre Clle,sea Jai,roa3 was much interested in the progress of
iu uwii;, t(ie c,,y an(j wa 0Iie tf ,tg most loyal
The remain, will be brought to Barre citizens, and he was reeoirnied as a man
over the Montpelier & Wells Biver rail- of gtrict integrity. He recently was
road to-morrow morning at 7:55 o'clock. Lifted a director of the Oranite Sarincrs
They will be removed to the Milne home, Biu,k & Tnmt company. He belonged to
nere, n is expecicu, ine iunerai services th(. Knights of Pythias lodge and also
m oe neiu rriuay auernoon, wun in- to Vine t a c 11 . Ha wh nn adherent o
terment in Hope cemetery. the First Universalist church.
A imrtnl mo n n rt r Ana vaaa imil luf T I mi .. . . A
ontinn trv.ilav iliv-liloH nnt t snanonil " nr.cit.-u v i M surviving relatives are 111. wile
?l,0n.,"d!L.C.'i7n?. I 8UTenr il Mrs. Milne Sunday evening, their Ln,l three children. Kewton A.. 11
son received injuries in a basketball vears. Constance M.. siW 4. and Corinne
aaiiie .uiuruiiy nueinuoii. in ine leit 1 A. aped 3: his mother. Mr Mart lift Per
lontf debate, showed that 1.000 of the s' ..'"UB"1 "r "" l rln 01 awntpeiier, and a sister, -Mrs,
:.. , , manon or me young mans condition, 11 Char 1PS Parker of Montw of. Mrs
ssed be daughter, Mrs. Alice Webb, 18 Harrison TthrouU . amhassador, i acceptable,
la now avenue, yestfrday afternoon at 4 o'clock, " was 8ttef excellent authority,
oture of with Eev. J. E. Taylor, pastor of the ver, that the In. ted States in-
ULUr VL . . . . niutfl 1inm hf-ilfliriiV flirt Karmnn nAunrn .
aumit, 111 e 11 cci, mat it is name accord
ing to law, for the lives of neutrals lost
in the commission of an act against a
vessel of an enemy,
Both Secretary Lansing and Count
ftn Kprnwrnrff hava .iffAAil tl.uf thn
Tl, !,., 1 t ..I. ...Ml t.U . -6.... w.v.
n, wun u is in wo iiHiius i mc tu . icgumi ...ctn.i iui mo jmiiupc " ahotiM be held confidential. They al
i'asna. nrovisionai rresiuent or Aioania, coiiauciiniz examinaiions at ine Maie i,a,i u. i.... n.... " i,-
Who has cast nis lot wun tne entente nouae veunesuay or next week, reo. z. conference would he held in th tn..rtiiinr
,lieg- I In county court the followinsr cases but bevond that declined to disMiss the
have been entered for the March term: case. It was further explained that
Sfhflrt THMTTQW H'CATi iixnuse nrown vs. wanace jsartiett, nas- these negotiations, neeessanlly of an m-
,UUU lilVlllOXl UfiAU tardy, John W. Gordon for the plaintiff; formal character, were not in the least
LEFT ON FIELD St8te V"' Lil,ian RHuin8on perjury. binding. Secretary Lansing, in allud-
cneriu rranK n. iracy ana iepniy i '"(5 juom-uiiuii vi to tin iucia
Sheriff Henry C. Lawson left on the connected with the proposal which now
United Mine Workers of America are
Solidly in Favor of Plan According
to Vote in Convention.
ludianaiKilis, Ind., Jan. 20. The Unit
ed Mine Workers of America in con
vent ion to-day decided not to suhj
work alter their contracts expired so
long as negotiations for new agreements
are pending. A rising vote, token after
a long debate, showed that 1,000 of tin
ueugaies were in lavor oi conunu- w 1, " -
inn. u-nrk ... rP1,,.n..n,l,.ll l,v Prixhlent . " " "V " ""V . Anna ii. j erry oi isarre is an aunt
. . ..j since haturdav evenmcr. Ijitcr. it trans- 1 ti, ;..i..j
pired that Mr. Milne was thrown against nraver service at the house Fridnv after-
an upright on the basketball floor early noon at j o'clock and the funeral service
in the contest. He retired from the t the Universalist church at 1 :30 o'clock
game, out remained in the hall and rp t ti Reunion niru-ifltincr assisted
Corilano Granai Pleaded Guiltv to Keen- w.lcuu lne po"81 mrougn to tne nn- by Rev. J. W. Burnett. Interment will
- I iui. A .. .... ... ........ I I, . l.ia I . . ... ,
in. fintmr T!l.tiw . ' . oe in jimwooa cemetery
- home in wrookime and soon afterward
An entry of nolle iiroaeoiii was made he complained of feeling ill. Soon there
in the case of .State vs. Mrs. Corilano after he sank into a coma and did not MONUMENT DEALERS
(.raniu in city court yesterday and tier onscioiiBiiexs mil ior . smgie 111
husband. Corilano Granai. nleadintr jruil- terval, when it is thought that he recog
tv to a chance of keepincr with intent niited those at his bedside. Specialists
to sell, was sentenced uy .Magistrate II. iueneu io um "usmo aeciuea inui . .,, r T Cf..
W. Scott to serve a maximum sentence concussion of the brain had dcveiRd Second Annual Convention of Twin.-State
of eight months in tha house of eorree- from the injury.
tion at Kutland with a minimum of six LTpon being notified of the gravity of
months. He was taken to the county Mr. Milne's condition, his mother and his
jail last night to await transfer to But- brother left the city Sunday evening for
land. Hoston, to be lollowed the next evening
Mrs. Granai's arrest was the result of by Mr. Milne, the young man's father,
SINKING FUND
IS $75,864.77;
ASSETS GROW
In Addition to Sinking Fund
Is Balance in Water De
partment After Paying All
Expenses, Makir . Total
Sinking Funfc Nearly
$80,000 . ;
TAX Rx E OF $2.30
IS RECOMMENDED
Finance Committee Also Fa
vors Beginning of Perma
nent Road Work on South
Main Street, the Cost to
Cover a Period of Seven
Years Other Annual Re
ports Submitted
John P. White.
HUSBAND TOOK SENTENCE.
OF TWO STATES HERE
Association Met in Barre To-day
and Will Continue Through
To-morrow.
According to Turkish Report of Engage
ment on January 21 When British
Attacked Turkish Positions.
afternoon train for Burlington to attend is understood to have been rejected, de
the first annual meeting of the Vermont
Sheriffs association, the two days ses
sion of which opens to-night at the New
Sherwood hotel.
John McMahon, but recently released
Berlin, Jan. 26, by wirelesB to Sayville,
N. J. The British force eolnir to the
Telicf of the troops surrounded by Turks from Washington county jail after serv
v at Kut-el-Arnara attacked the Turkish ing a long sentence for intoxication,
positions near Menlari on Jan. 21, but went back to-day to stay until the first
were repulsed after an engagement last- f May.. He was arrested last evening
: ing six hours, according to an official by Officer John McDonald and pleaded
report isluexl by the Turkish hcadquar- guilty this morning before Judge Harvey
ters staff. The British, the announce- to a third offense. He was fined $15 and
ment says, left about 3,000 dead on the costs and given 30 days. Being unable
field. to pay the fine he was committed for 1)6
Th text of the Turkish headquarters days,
report follows: George Carpenter, inspector of weights
"Irak front: Engagements continue and measures went to-day to Burlington
at the Kut-el-Amara position. British to test the scales installed in the new
force coming from Imam. Ali Gherbi union station.'
attacked on Jan. 21 the Turkish position jn proliate court John T. Averill of
near Menlarie, abouta kilometers (21 Bgrre city has been appointed adminis-
miles) east of Kut-el-Amara, and on trator of the estate of Patrick K. Mc-
both sides of the Tigris river. Xulty. The will of John H. Tibbetts,
"The engagement lasted bix hours. All late of Cabot, has been presented for
the British attack., were repulsed by probate and the will of Jeanette Cun-
counter attacks. Tlie British were re- ningham, late of Cabot, has been proven,
pnlsed several kilometers to the west- Harry R. Robinson of Waterbury set-
i ward. tied his account aa administrator of the
"On the battlefield, the British left estate of George N. Greeley. Clarence H.
about 3.000 dead. The Turkish losses Center has been annointed administra-
were comparatively slight
-(Jen. A rimer (commander of the
British force) asked and obtained one
day's tnicc in order to bury the dead.
"British soldiers taken prisoners stated
that the British column also had lost
.1,1X10 men in dead and wounded in the
preceding engagement near Sheik Said.
"The lurks attacked another Britifh
detaohnient advancing to the west of
Korna from Muntchk. which 'caused the
British to retreat. The British left 100
dead."
BRITAIN JUSTIFIES
MAIL MEDDLING
V By Citing Evidence That Germans Hst
Been Atrairlng Privileges of Firjt
Class Mail.
London. Jan. 2t. The foreign office
landed the Anwk-an enJttMy to-day an
ad interim reply to the American protet
Cin-t the detention of maila. The note
a formal answer to the representa
tions of the United 5tat will he made
a toon at the FrMich government sig
nified its approval of the attitude of
C.rrat Britain. It i undrtorl the
formul reply wit! defend the attitude of
the P.ntioh authoriti by citme endeiH-e
tHet the Germans bad bw abutting tbe '
mil-rea of rrt-cUs asaila.
t
tor of the estate of John H. Senter. Mr,
Senter left no will. Charles F. Smith of
Berlin has been appointed administrator
of the estate of Sarah Lake, late of
Barre City.
Routine business appears to be all
that will claim the attention of the city
council at the regular fortnightly meet
ing this evening unless something un
foreseen occurs. The city's fiscal year
does not end until next week, so that
departmental reports have not yet been
completed for consideration by the coun
cil. Mrs. H. W. Dun ton of Prospect street
has been taken to Ilea ton hospital for
treatment, being ill with the grip.
Mrs. James Kelkber and little son of
North street went to-dsv to Burlinsrton
for a week", visit with relatives.
The Independents gained a Ian on the
leaders in the city bowling Icsinie last
evening by taking all four points from i
the All Stars, who are at the foot of
the nine teams. The Indeendents rolled
a total of 1,1.17, the beet string being
474. Warren wa high man with .1oM.
On the School street alleys the Tinkers
obUined one point in their contest with
the Eagles, now the lesjnie Wdera. -
F. S. Tease of the industrial accident
hoard returned to-dy n Burlincton
after a 10 days stay in the ntv.
Charles H. Barton is crUined at hli
home in this city hr a severe cold.
clared during the day that the state
ments are "conjectures" and that the
published description of the informal
communication was "supposition unjus
tified by the facts.
It was indicated last night, that while
Teutonic diplomatic circles were disap
pointed at the refusal of the United
States to accept the proposal, a feeling
of optimism regarding the outcome still
prevailed.
Friendship First.
From sources usually well informed
came the statement that Germany, in
the proposals, had considered friendship
with the United States to a greater ex
tent than law in making such conces
sion as have been made. The adminis
tration was represented as taking the
position that law also should be brought
into consideration.
Germany from the beginning of its
submarine operations in the North sea,
has refused to accede to the American
view point that laws makes Ifer liable
lor ine lives oi neutrals lost as were
those aboard the Lusitania. In her note
of Aug. 19, last, regarding the sinking
of the White Star liner Arabic, Germany,
after expressing deep regret on account
of the deaths of American citizens, made
the following statement i
"The German government is unable,
however, to acknowledge any obligation
to grant indemnity in the matter, even
if the commander should have been mis
taken as to the aggressive intentions of
the Arabic."
been reserved at Hotel Barre and there
the various committees met this morn
ing prior to the first open session in. the
hall adjacent to the offices of the Barre
n
ANOTHER CONFERENCE TODAY.
Ambassador
Secretary
Lansing and
Bemstorff Met.
Representative retail monument del-
a raid made by the jxdice on her prem-1 who reached Boston yesterday morning, ers of Vermont and Xew Hampshire
iscs at 27 Granite street Saturday night, rrom ine outset it was seen that the gathered here to-day for their second an
wnen inree nnrreis oi oeer and ooxes oi - cic n r i t. (1 .,.t: ,a-. ).
whiskey were seized. Upon representa- slight. V, . , . . 4t
tiona made in court yesterday it devel- The deceased was born in Barre June swond assemb,y ot ,ts klnd Blne the
oped that Granai was the keeper of liq- 2!, ls"" and until his departure for Bos- twin-state association was organized in
uor which he intended to dispose of il- ton two years ago he had always lived white River Junction in- 1014. Head
-., i.i ... ... .. . . ..I: T)- ir. .ii i.in.. j i i I
uc.tiy ana mat ms wue soia only .n his '' - ,rlm for the monument men have
nrndiiMi , a i.irrumkl a n..a u.-lii..!, tiAnlz.il Slid WSS Pradliaterf in litOi from
to the husbandjs guilt, under the law. ing high school, where for four years he
Grand Juror William Wishart, to manifested a lively interest in all
whom the complHiut'asrainst the respond- branches of sport. For some time he
nnl u'Bt rnuitn itdm.i.i.l vi,.. nman.mimi, wan emnloved as il rlerL in tho nM V.
.ml .T WarA rurvor i.miii.r.,,1 , ,. tional hank nf Rarre .nit lt.r ho .-. Granite Manufacturers' association
Granai people. Dr. Joe W. Jackson, who cepted a clerical position -in the Mont- the c- Averill building. Retailers,
has been doctoring the respondent, Co- pelier omee of the American Fidelity mm"ci.uiei -. Mn .- .......
rilano Granai, was asked to take the company. From the capital he went toU'ed m an open forum gathering from
stand. He stated that Granai is ill of "'"ton, where he held a position in the oclocK until noon, jvwyor iangiey
m incnrnhln molu.1v o..,l . office of the ArassachiiKett a Tlnn,l i ncr com. I ave an address of welcome and there
n ilm mun'a nroaonV militinn h .ufoj nanv until the summer nf IMS Tn Ron. I were informal speeches following.
ihnt tlio HiaoHoo wR nriMruiiili. ir, hi. tember he returned tn Ttnatnn affor hov. Not until mid-afternoon did the re
opinion the respondent . might expire '"If been employed by Adie & Milne in tailers meet together in closed session,
within a few weeks, or. be might live this city, and began the pursuit of and then they assembled for the purpose
several months. It was represented that course in accounting in the school of ad- if H'"K 'ei na.i.K
the family is in impoverished c rcum- ministration at JJoston university. A mess um un au,..nuun, t.....- n,
. I , . . ... .- . I i ... . : T.. ........ . .,.. .. 1 ..... 1 il,.
two weeks' sojourn in the Christmas 'HHt niernnu. mmrn awt. .--
holidays at his home here was the oc- entertainment features provided by the
casion'of his Inst visit to Barre. Granite Manufacturers' association for
Mr. Milne was a young man whose tlli9 evening and, to-morrow,
estimable qualities won him friends efforts hav'e lieen spared to make
wherever he went. His genial disposi- t,,e visitors feel at home and thus far
tion was wholly sincere and unvarying. 01lly favorable comments concerning the
Ambitious to s'ueceed in a marked' de- reception accorded the dealers have been
gree, the future for him was full of heard. In Clan Gordon hall this evening
promise, and his untimely passing has 7 o'clock, the manufacturers will be
brought genuine sorrow to many. He the hosts at an Italian banquet, served a
was a member of the First Presbyterian ' Milanese with polenta and other fa-
church and in his boyhood as well as in vorite peninsula dishes on the menu,
after years he was closelv identified with Ppeechmaking is tabooed, as the manu-
aetivities among the younger people of facturers are determined that their
that denomination. For several veara h. fuests shall have their own kind of a !
had been a member of the Vincitia club I?00'1 time.. Dancing .will follow the ban-
and retained his affiliation with the club quet.
even after his removal to Boston. Mr. Again to-morrow the dealers will be
Milne also belonged to Clan Gordon, No. tllw hands, of. their friends. A com-
12, O. S. C. mittee composed of Secretary H. P. Kin-
.. . I man of the manufacturers association,
Death Due to Hemorrhage. Alexander A. Milne, W. 1'. Scott and Ar-
Boston, Jan. 26. .Tames S. Milne, acred mando Comolli is in charee of the enter-
23, son of James Milne of Barre, Vt., a tainment arrangements for this evening
second-year student at Boston univer- as well as to-morrow. In the morning
sity. died late yesterday afternoon at automobiles will lie ready to transport
the home of Mrs. Georgia Howe, 31 Lin- the visitors to the south end, where the
den place, Brookline, where he roomed. I cutting plant, of Barclay brothers is to
basketball
Washington. D. C, Jan. 26. Count
Von Berustorff had another conference
to-day with Secntary Lansing over the
Lusitania negotiations, but the result
was not divulged.
It was made known in official quarters
before the conference took place that the
last German pmpoaala were nnatislac-
tory and that the United States was
pressing for the full disavowal of the
sinking of the liner with the lw of 110
American lives.
FORD COMMITTEE AT STOCKHOLM
And Will Remain Until Feace Negotia
' tiations Are Began.
London. Jan. 21. Re!itr' Stockholm
correpondr,t jya fiat the workirg
committee of t'lr Ford peace expcHinn
has armed there and will rema n nntd
j negotiatHTi are o!i-,a''y begun.
stances and that the head of the house
has been unable to do manual labor of
any kind for several years. He was un
able to walk to city hall, tho authorities
having found it necessary to procure a
team to bring him before the judge.
... it
COAL GAS NEARLY FATAL.
Two Occupants of Room at 73 South
Main street, Unconscious When Found.
Serious results from coal gas asphyx
iation were narrowly averted at the
home of Mr. ami Mrs. John F. Tassie of
73 South Main street this morning
when Mr. and Mrs. Tasie were aroused
at about 6 o'clock by the sound of some
one falling in an adjoining room.- In
vestigation disclosed the two occupants
of the room, Mrs. .1. F. Emerson, a sister
of Mm. Tassie, and William, their six-
year-old son. unconscious and the room
filled with the odor of gas.
When the two were restored to con
sciousness it was learned that Mrs. Em
erson was troubled at several times dur
ing the night by a feeling of suffoca
tion and made an ineffectual attempt to
open wilier the already partly oen win
dow, but could not raise it. She had
been troubled for the past few days with
an attack of the gripjie, however, and
thought this to lie the cause of her
weakness. Shortly before 6 o'clock she
aroused the lad and he started "for the
closet in search of stiinulanta. He had
taken but a fw steps, however, when
he i overcome and fell to the floor.
Mr. Kmerson then attempted to go to
his assistance but was likewise affected
When discovered, the boy had crawled
into the closet. Both victim are !
ported to he rapidly recovering from
their experience, and no serious results
are anticipated. Other occupants of the
house are complaining of headaches today.
JAPANESE ULTIMATUM.
Te China Has Been Delivered, aa Eng
. lush Paper Hears.
Iondn, .In. 2iV Ti Japsncv pny
ernm.-nt has delivered, to the l"hinee
nuni-ter in Tkio for tin.mw.Kia t
hi government a lte ertit-ivine the
wvob !man-l shun were in. In'icl in
the .lapnce -franj !st vrmf. the
Manchester oaru.aa Harris tr.r far
n;tm 'iirce.
from injuries received , in
game between the Jtostnn university
team ami me luits acrnbs, Saturday
afternoon.
The young man played on the Boston
university team, and in the game was in
collision with an oppoing player. He
was severely stunned, hut was able to
go home. Late Saturday evening Mrs.
Howe heard groans in M lines room and
found the younjr man verging upon un
consciousness. He died without regain
ing consciousness.
His parents will take the body to
Barre, to-day.
Dr. Powers notified Medical Examiner
Harry M. Cutta of Brookline, who re
ported to the police that Milne's injury i
clearly was accidental. IVath was due
to a hemorrhage.
Recommendatory measures of a very
positive character, involving the im
provement of South Main street to the
extent of laying new pavement from the
present stone roadway terminus to the
base of Jockey Hollow hill the erection
of a new bridge to replace the ancient
wooden structure over Jail branch in the
south end, and the lowering of the grade
immediately south of the bridge, were
incorporated in the annual report of the
aldermanic finance committee, which was
received at the regular meeting of tbo
board of aldermen last evening and or
dered printed" in the city year book. The
committee further recommends in its
1915 report that the sum of $35,000 be
expended on tlie foregoing improvements,
that . $5,000 be appropriated this year
and that the cost be extended overa
period of seven years. Cognizance is
taken of the fact that there is a very
pressing need for the improvements and
a tax rate of $2.30 is advocated for this
reason.
The finance committee's report, printed
below, will be foun'd.to be a concise
statement of what the city council be
lieves should be achieved in 1016. It
serves to clarify, the atmosphere as to
where the committee and other members
of the council stand on the question .of
street improvement and if the measures
advocated are carried out, much, of the
dissatisfaction felt over the condition of
South Main street and the long-time
agitation for a new bridge in the. south
end will be eliminated. It is recommend
ed that work on all three projects be
tarted early in the season. Last even
ing's session saw the aldermen working
on the fag end of a grist of 1015 re-,
ports, a majority of which were ap
proved at the regular meeting last
week.
Among the annual reports adopted last
evening were the yearly statement of
Fire Chief C. B. Gladding, a 'digest of
which appeared in yesterday's Times;
the report of Overseer W. J. Clapp, the
annual report of the park commission,
the yearly statement of the city treas
urer and the annual report of the char
ity committee.
. The Finance Committee's Report.
Below are given the most salient ex
cerpts of the finance committee's state
ment: "The following estimate of expendi
tures for the year 1916 arc based on a
tax rate of $2-10.
"The increasing and incessant demand
for improvement in conditions for travel
has induced us to make rather liberal
estimates this year for the street de
partment. For maintenance we have ap
propriated $10,KMI.OO; for macadam road
$2,100.1X1; and for a permanent street
on South Main street $5,000.00; we be
lieve the time is ripe for carrying out
the oft-repeated but never acted on rec
ommendations of oir predivessors. that
this work be done; it is estimated that
the cost of improving this street and
constructing a new bridge over Jail
branch would amount, approximately, to
$.13,000.00. The cost of this improve
ment, in our judgment, should he spread
over a term of seven years, and we have
made provision in our estimate for the
payment of the first installment of the
total cost.
"We would also recommend that all
be open for insiiection. In the afternoon
at 1:30 o'clock there will he a motor!
trip to the nuarries on Millstone hill.
At the deposits of Bout well, Milne A j permanent work contemplated for 1010
Yarnum refreshments are to lie served j be started early in the season and com
and the journey to Barre will he resumed pleted as soon as possible, as e lielicve
in the late afternoon. If unpropitious j that conditions are nmre favorable then,
weather prevails, the idea of giving the , and that better results can be secured at
dealers an auto ride to the quarries will j Jess cost.
be abandoned and other means of trans- "Liberal provision has been made for
porta tion will lie provided. fall other work in the street, poor.' fire,
Thomas .1. Adams of Woodstock is! police, water, health and other de art
president of the Vermont and Xew j mcntv which w ill enable them to main
Ifampshire association, F. M. Olier of .tain their present lii?h standard of effi
Morrisville is the secretary and the jc-jency and enlarge the scojh- of it in sev
tressurer is J. E.- MeXk-bol of White . eral. '
Rier Junction.
SNOW CONQUERED.
And Trains are Being Moved On All
Lines in West Except One.
Settle. Vh, Jan. 26. The northern
tranacHitinertal railroads have won
their fe't ith the nw in the rvhib-
tir an t to-oy overlan.1 train ntrt
m all the 1 nea exrfpt the Canadian
FORMAL MURDER CHARGE
"The sinking fund has lcen increa-wd
during the past year to .T5x;4.77i and
with the water department surplus add
ed will amount to fullv $si.(Kwi.iki; ,n.
'ilniiatinn sf Tia aat rrta TwilifV in r.nri r.l
But Accused Man May Not Survive Hu;tht. inkiriij flin,i f(ir t, few years
Self-Iaflicted Wound. ithtt ha Wn followed in the pt! will
Ouinev. Me.... J-n. 2fl.-The .li.v ! enable the city to cancel from this f,,,, I
have e.ved .rrnt , harem Frank ;.- rrfur.,
("llctti with the murder of h,s ,fe. mat ..re Ihi. .ear and the r,t v
.Wphine Colhtti. whom be shot .,, nd w.t.-r .-nds mat i.r.,,e , n;l
.nstantlv killed ... Ila.d.n street. West!"'51 I"' ' . ,? V",
tie heavy annual ititert -l arjo. with
hi'h are bow bnrVnci. nd "l
(.hnncy. Iat li'iir.ay nict.
folletti ia .till at t'ie t,inny City hos
pital aith a Irti'Ut in hl head. The
ll hate a
ortlr'. hwh ejx-ftej to cWar its physsriana still think he
1-ne hfcT n f' t- hard time to pull through.
(rctinud or .'oorth j-ajr.l
