VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1916. NUM
JOHN D. W. WATT
Governor Manning Annour
After Holding the Mal
Yesterday afternoon Thle Advertiser
was advised over the long distance tel
ephone from Columbia that Governor
Manning had announced about noon
that he would appoint John D. W.
Watts as sheriff of the county to fill
out the unexpired term of the late
Jo11 ). Owings. It is expected that
the commission will be issued imme
diately and that Mr., Watts will take
possession of the office within a few
days.
The appointment of Mr. Watts fol
lows several weeks of suspense, dur
ing whici there was much interest
manifested In the claims of several ap
plicants. It early became apparent
that the governor was wavering be
tween Mr. Watts and Mr. C. B. Owings,
brother of the late sheriff, the argu
ment being advanced that Mr, Owings
was the logical man to wind up the
affairs of his brother which necessarily
had been left in more or less of an un
finished state. It is understood that
REY. M. L, lAWSON iRESlgNS.
Pastor of First Baptist. (hurch Severs
his Relation with the Church on
March 11th1.
At i congregational meeting at the
First Baptist church Sunday morning,
immediately following the regular
morning service, the board of deacons
laid before the congregation the resig
nation of Rev. M. L. Lawson, its pastor,
which had been in the hands. of the
board for several weeks. Mr. Lawson
had requested that the resignation be
acted upon without discussion of any
kind and the request was assented to.
Upon the recommendation of the board,
the resignation was accepted to take
effect March 12th. No reason was giv
en by Mr. Lawson for his resignation.
As his pastorate was apparently giv
ing eminent satisfaction, his resigna
tion came as a great surprise to his
congregation, and to the people of the
city. Ile gave no indientions as to his
future plans, though it is understood
that several very desirable places are
open to him.
Mir. Lawson has been the pastor of
the First Blaptist church since April
12, 1915, during which time the church
has grown steadily in number and in
tluenee. Possessed of peculiar qIual' -
ties of leadership ahd spiriturality,
co'mbinedi wiih at Practical anud broad
minded personality .I r. Lawsoin has
been vcry successful in building up the
chuhrclh here, besides winning and hold
inag the friendship and -esteem of niem
hers of all denoniniia tions. \\' en tile
fact. of his resignation was made
known there was a general expression
of regret, not noly among his own
membership but by all of thoso with
w'ol he had collie in ontact since
moving to the city.
NOT HIEARING MUCH.
Coingr'essional Gossip In the Foiurth
JMist rict (on the Soft I'edal.
Ac(cord in to inewtspa per~ repiorits sent
out firom C'ol umbnia, where polities aiid
legisl at ion vie w.'ithi each otherci in hold
ing thle initerest of visitor's and legla
lators, the couigiressional race in this
(listiit is not atracting as muichi inter
est as tile races inl otheir distriicts. In
chided inl an aticle sent out firom thle
capital last week dealing with the dlif
feirent eongiressionlal r'aces, was the
following in iregaird -to the race in tis
distirict:
Congressman S. J. Nicholls, of the
fourth, who is ser'ving out the unex
pired termi of Hion. J. T. Johnson, who
was ap~pointedl judge of the western
federal district, lhas two announced
candidates agaInst him already, A. HI.
Miller, of Gireer, and Alvin Hi.'Dean, of
Greenville. Whether B. A. Morgan, of
Greenville, who ran the second race
with Mir. Nicholls befoire, will again
enter is not known. However, this
race has not been heard much of from
the visitors hero from that dIstrict.
Mrs. RI, F. Fleming's Father Dead.
News was reecived in the city Satur'
day of the death of Mr. W. McD, Drown
at his home in Lancaster. Mr'. Brown
was the father of Mrs. R1. F. Fleming,
of this city. Mr. Fleming was visiting
him at the time of his death, which was
very unexpected, and Mrs. Fleming
was in Greenwood. Mr. B3rown had
visited hero on several ooossons and
hMd made many friends and acquaint
ances, His death was due to la grippe.
S NAMED SHERIFF
ced his Decision Yesterday
:ter up for Sone Time
the governor suggested a compromise
in the matter by which Mr. Watts
would be appointed sheriff and Mr.
Owings should accept the place of
deputy sheriff, but Mr. Owings did not
acquiesce in the plan.
Mr. Watts is one of the best known
men in the county having been identi
fled with many of the progressive
movements tending to improve farm
life. . lie has been an extensive exhib
itor at the state and county fairs,
where he has always won many pre
miums. He is well fitted for the of
fice and will doubtless fulfill its duties
acceptably.
So far as can be learned, the gov
ernor decided the matter after consul
tation with several supporters of the
different. applicants for the place and
the county delegation (lid not interest
themselves in the appointment at all,
nor were they consulted about it. If
there has been any activity on the part
of the delegation, The Advertiser has
not been able to get wind of it.
81ITH1 APPEARIS
''O 11011) REINS
liiy' Factor in Postofilice' Fights. Nomi
nations Iield Up1.
Vashington, .an., 2.1.--Careful in
vestigation made here today to ascer
tain when action would be taken on
the cases of W. ii. Coleman, recently
nominated to be postmaster at Colum
bia. and Col. T. J. Cunningham, recom
mended by 'Congressman Finley for
the sale position at Chester, reveals
the fact that in all probability nothing
will be done until Senator I:. ).
Smith loosens up the situation.
So far as Columbia is concerned it
appears that the senate committee on
postofflcew has been waiting to know
whether Mr. Coleman was satisfactory
to the junior senator from South Caro
lina. The latter. it is understood, will
in time inform the committee that he
has no objection to the nomination he
ing confirmed.
In the Chester matter the situation
appears to be different. Senator
Smith, when Col. Cunningham is nom
inated, if, in fact, this is done, will in
form the postoflceo committee of his
pos'ition. It Is said hr that this nomi
ltation will not "get by" Senator Smith
and a lively time may be expected a.
a 'eliit. shou1(1 Ihe 11o)ilatloll he
made and get into exepctive session o01
the senate.
Congressman Finley and Senator
Tillman som11e time ago agreed tha
.ol. Cunningham was sat isfactory to
them an(1 lie was recommended to the
postllaster general for appointllent,
Senator Smith being not consulted.
llt there is a wide difference he
tween a recommendation and a col
firimation.--The State.
('OM1.iNS OF JOHNSON.
Flor'ence A ttorney Says lie is Not ('om1
li(tenit as5 Judge.
Wasin lgtoin, Jlani. '21.--1 is leariled
that .\r. Wileux, anl at torney of Flir
en1Ce, has fil1ed withi thle deipartmenllt of
julstlee al oi chage tilat .Jludlge .foseoph1 T1.
.ilohnsonll, (if tile Wester d')(ist rict of
Soulh Cx(arol ina, is nlot coimpeteint Inl
legal qual Ifleatlins to dIlscharge tile
duitiles of is positloln.
The same)1 attorney fied a letter pr'ev
Ious to the applointmient of ,Jud~ge John11
son by President Wilson, allegIng thlat
tile th~en Congressman from thle 4th
district did not have the requisite
equlipmnent as a lawyer.
The entire Supreme Court andl Supe
rior' Court Dench of the Paletto State,
'it is understood, have submnitted state
zaients declaring Judge Johnson to pos
seSS tile qualifications of a judlge in
ample measure,
Tailoring Company Moves.
Tile Laurens Tailoring Company,
which hlas been occupying the store
room ini thle 'Dial building opposite thle
post-office, has leasedi one of the store
rooms in thle Traynham building 0)n
the southl side of the public square
and began moving in yesterday. Tihe
front part of the store will be attrac
tively fitted up for the display of fa
brics of the various designs used in
gentlemen's clothing and in the rear
of the building will be a pressing club,
Mr. 1Crnest Moore, manager of the .con
cern, considers the prospects bright
fol' an increased business in the new
atna
BETHEA IN PURPIE
WIELDS THE (OAVEL
Lieutenant Governor at Ills Post Ii
Senate After Peace Mlssion to Eu
rope,
Columbia, Jan. 24.--Lieutenant Gov
ernor Andrew J. Ilethea presided over
the Senate tonight for the first time
this session. lie returned yesterday
from his trip to Europe with the Ford
peace party. On taking the gavel to
night the Lieutenant Governor ex
pressed his pleasure at again being
with the Senate and regretted that he
hadl been unable to arrive in time for
the opening of the legislature, but said
he had been unavoidably detained by
sickness at Stockholm and had been
further delayed by storms at sea.
The Lieutenant Governor said that
he had visited the House of Commons
and the Ilouse of Lords in London and
had seen the legislative bodies of sev
eral foreign ountries, but that none
of them was working so much for the
great masses of the people as the South
Carolina General Assembly. In part
the Lieutenant Governor said:
"It may please you also to know
that of all the law-making bodies it
was my privilege to visit, including
the English I louse of Lords and I louse
or Commons, none impressedl me as
more earnestly desirous to protect and
preserve the rights of the individual
citizen than the General Assembly of
South (arolina.
"Inspired by this thought and the
need and opportunity in thle w\orl(d to
day for constructive forces in the
midst of national upheavals and decay,
I call upon you, my countrymen, to
continue to render faithful service to
the State, to keel) in mind the high
ideals and traditions set before us
and to'remember the issues enjoined
upon you by the people at the ballot
box. I challenge you to a reconsecra
tion of human wisdom and power to
the end that South Carolina may pre
serve and perpetuate her free institu
tions and reap a rich harvest of bless
ings under a government of the peo
pie, for the people and by the people."
In another place in his address the
Lieutenant Governor said:
"Having recently seen something of
the national life of many countries,
and having studied their governments,
it is my firm conviction that the Prus
sian belief that Ihe (itizen is made for
the State should not prevail, but that
it is the first duty and fune ion of
goivernment to serve the b)!'>t interst
of all its citizenship."
A resollion intiroduced Ib\ V (i 0o'
\erner, w hici welcomed ( the rectulrn of
the laieutenant Governor. a:'l invited'
iml to address-8 IihnI Son:0t " I s ri: n I11.
Newvs antl Courier.
NI) l-ilillit u.\PTllN.
N 1Th r e e N (' 'tr ot ' s w h o l s en dd f r o m1 1 J a ' 1l
and 'i'wo from (lUin (hn *i1z Still It
l arge.,
Three of the four nee roe; Who Cs
ca ped from the (oun11t jail lust 'ues
day and the two who e:caped from the
county chain gang are still at lairr. Al
thloulgh diligent efforts were imiade to
(ealturie Ihem, the efforts wer uniisui
(CSsful. Oilieers ini othier lit ies have
been. niotilled ofl tlihir escapeI' andi ini
case of ('apture tihey will be retim:nild
to this c'ointy.
ii iinure abIout Ithle hea1d by thle ne ~gri-e
esc-aing from thle Jail, is improving
r'apidly. Althioughi the wound hl; are still
Isom ewhait pa infuIlihe Is irap~idly rec(ov
Judige Jolhnson ('ontirmed.
The Senate of the United States
conffirmeld Monday the nomination of
J,. T. Johnson as judge of the Western
District of South Carolina. This puts
an end to the speculation as to the
judgeship ini this district.
Bishop Eiigo Coming.
Rev. J. R. T. Major, pastor of the
First Methodist church, announced
from the pulpit Sunday morning that
revival services woulid be held in thatf~
church diuring the early part. of March.
Ilishop John C. Klgo, of Charlotte,.
C., will lead in the services.
Play at Hickory Tavern.
The dlelightful little drama "Valley
Farni," which was to hlave been given
at Hickory Tavern school last Friday
night by the Shiloh dramatic club, was
postponed and will be given Friday
night, the 28th. The admission charg
es will be 25 and 10 cents. Trhe cur
tain rises at 8 o'choek, The public Is
cordially invited to attend,
FIF'NEFI('IAIIES MAY
PAY BACK 'UITION
Verner Ilesolution Wound lequire At
torney (cineral to Investigate Status
of liletieiaries.
Colnimbia, Jan. 21.--A concurrent
'esolution was introduced in the son
ite tonight. by Senator Verner, of
Oconee co1unty, to reqIiire the attor
iey general to investigate the finan
lIal status of all beneflciaries of free
nit ion privilege; at state institutions
within the last teln years. Prosecution
or recovery of amontni received is to
)e pressed by the attorney general
vhen, in lIs judy ment, the beneficiary
vas able to pay. Mr. Verner is the
tithor also of the bill to abolish all
Gtate scholarships; and free tilition fen
iries at state institutions, which bili
vas debated briefly tonigh'.. Debate is
o be resumed tomorrow.
The bill provides that students must
)ay tuition at the rate of $10 a year,
or which irovision there Is an
imendment by Senator Carlisle to al
ow the student to give notes payable
wo years after leaving the school.
rhe problem of remedying the abuses
if free ttition is one of the principal
nlestIons before the legislatire and it
s thought that before the session is
(d.lottrne(l a law will be enateed,
'hanling existing conditions of affairs.
The house tonight. went into a com
niittee of the whol in order to hear
it fill dis'tussion of the plans of re
liodeling the rostrum. The courtesy
if the floor was oxtended to C. C.
hWilson of Columbia, architect who
x plained thle proposed changes.
1ids have been tentatively received
or the contructilon of a new house
lesk.
A bill to repeal the South Carolina
ax commission act was introduced in
he house tonight.
The house tonight. gave second read
ng to a bill to establish a new judicial
listrict with the counties of Hlampton,
'olleton, Jasper and Beaufort.
The two-cent mileage bill was pass
Nd to third reading in the house to
light and ordered sent to the senate.
Meet liug of ('ottonwood am.
There will be an important meeting
if .'ottonwood Camp No. 725 W. O. W.
omorrow night ('Thursday). On ac
'ount of the unuisually large number
O ble initlited at this timtie. the mieet
ni' will 1'e held in the Taurens Camp,
Ohich is locat(l in the Simmons
uliling ion tile s(Iuare. Thirty-one
i' ;: membet~rs will be taken in. Visi
(; omot"; (i oiher (atp is are cordially
t.'I to be ! c!0 l ia this meetin.
.!oiiille Main 3le..
11. .\M. liry oin \\'hoilsale Grocery
l1.xy have ('1me to Newheirry and
xill open bhinssiie: in the .\iCaughrin
.k next door to .1. T. layes . &" Co.
:!( ill sell groceries in original
.'ekages only and only for cash. Mr.
I. M. IBryson Is moved to Newherry
od1(1 will for the Ipresetnt ocupy rooms
it Ithe residence of Mirs. O. L. Schun
wtI. Mr. lr'yson is; fr1 .\lointville,
ii Isaurens couinty.-Newhe'rry Ileraid
unI News.
\liss Annie fiello Ciiress wi's a
e'essfulh ('ontestanit Inl the C'oliumbia
dI last week. Mliss ('hiildress did ' ery
aliuable w'ork foir thieI papeir and was
warded ain Overla nd toi Ing cari.
Lauren'(iis'I I Tsipi Re~gistrarl.
Dr. L. E. Bishop, of thle 1iurtekal Drug
r'ompany, Watts AMills, has beeni all
iointed 113 Dri. Ilayne as registrar of
'ital statistics for Laurens township,
(o succeed 'Dir. Pink Mlartin, of Mal
ion. Dr. Bishop wvll hiave replorted to
aiml the r'ecor'd of all births and deatihs
in the township.
Mrs. Enmma Calhoun Dead,
Mirs. E'mma Calhoun, widow of the
late Robert Calhoun and aunt of Mirs.
P'. P. McGowan, of this city, died at
e r home in Ninety Six Thui'sday and
(as buried at Bcthilehemi chuirchi, near
'oi'onaea, S'nturd(ay morninlg. Mirs.
'alhioun was about 6i5 years of age and
tefore her' marriiage was a Mliss 'Turn
U'ndergoesi Operation.
AMr. Cairi E. Martin, one of the
>liiging cierks with Fowier & Owens,
iiiderwent an opleration for ap~pendici
tis at the hospItal Saturday, the opera..
ion being performed by Dr. J, H.
r'eague. He was resting well yester
lay and the indications are bright for
is rapid rncovory.
11. FRlANZ ENGELS
BR'liED IN GItEENWOO1D
Well hinowt ('ietin of Enoree Passed
Away Saturday and Buried at. reen
Mo Monday.
The funeral of Mir. Franz Engels,
who died unexypectedly at IEnoree Sat
iIrday night, was held at Greenwood
Monday morning, the services being
condcited by Father Gwinn, of the
Catholic church at Spartanburg. The
following acted as pall bearers:
Active -Messrs L. L. ,igon, Geo.
ilakely, V. C. .loore, Russell Bet
sell, W. C. Whitman, J. C. "Crompton,
1E. C. Todd and lanlin Leatty, all of
Enorce.
1ionorary--Messrs. N. N. I lanna
and L. Muff, of EIinorce, and the fol
lowing from Greenwood: Messrs. A.
.erome Hell, F. Ii. Cobb, S. C. Ilodges,
A. J. Sproles, G. A. larksdale, 11. V.
It. Schrader, .J. F. Davis, S. P'.
Wright, J. K. Durst, A. Rosenberg, R.
.1. Cartledge, J. C. Nickles and II. P.
Ilake.
For 30 years Mr. Engels was secre
tary of tle Enorce Mills and was one i
of the best known mill men in the
Piedmont. He was SR years of age
and a native of Colon, Germany, hav
ing come to this (011111y when he
was about. 20. Shortly after becoming
a citizen of America he set led in Spar
tanhurg county and was elected seere
Iaiy of the 'no'ee 'Mills when it was
first organized. U'nder the reorganiza
tion of Ilie company a short time ago.
when the property was sold he was
elected assistant treasurer.
Mir. Ingels married Miss lHattie
Clary of Greenwood, a sister of Mr. .1.
E. Claiy, of this c(ily. BIesides his wife
and her sisters and brothers, he is sur
vived by two daughters, Miss .lennie
Engels, teacher of voice at Chicora
College, in Columbia, and Miss Hattie
Engels, of Enorce.
Mr. E'ngels had many friends in Lat
rens, who were deeply grieved by his
death,
FAVOlRS FIIEEI)O3
FOR PHILIPPINES
Wilson 3May Support ('larke Amend
mient. Four Years as Limit.
Washington, .Jan. 2I1.-Granting of
independence to the Philippines is not
less than two years and not more than
fo' years may be favored by the \\'il
son adinitsirmion. Senator I liitch
cok, chairman of the senate Philip
pnin (e'1nunittee. dl 'ict sed with I'vesi
e it i ioon 1'Ie hId;:'., a provision i
1titl et'feat whieb! Senat l or t'laci of
.\rhius s had in:."oduced a:: In amemi
m ivent to flit 'lie ilin e t'hilippine bil.
.\Ie "i oner ri. w l it h tes pac ident.
ay the tt-ol t id en t h1 til im
Iidae d it wa probable the atn ulnd
tnltt would have lhaditnistation's
support.
TlhO preiden t previously opposed
another amlend mleit by Senator lIareo
In give independence to the Philip
pines within thwo years.
Senator l Iilthnock went to the
Whit he reiidnent' woul.drb
"Tho lrked bymocmtonl dulyc
thae arfsden tollh~ in ixt thecoeratime
tof and inwcrsdin th pldto ofthminan
adjustverint of the teinsf cn-i
gs hch a hemal coen nxt ahe
elte of the epiatio of the f'nure
ytars alnd the inodecengesa oph
islanty ilr It di'eof furher to
aolo oei i the atonIdnt iowelan"
egaethe adjutment of al lepron
nrtyi right dang resire (ay.aqur
lan ede byon the ConitedSy.s o
nava basesWls and fsaily, and
Hiwold Trovdern tha invedseo te United
Sades shoul bc atn war otome oe
teerer ol Acae stt ndirable
to retei the sodutther patm ofxe
tye 'p e ilbwloeresidentswud e
tod and pulihdioexedyh.tm
Opposition to Associate
Justice Frazer Developes
GEO. F. MOWER'S
NAME MENTIONED
Race for Wareholse C'ommluissione(' is
.1.11 Attracting Great leal of Inter
est. 31Laurin's 'la'e Sought by
Others.
Columbia, Jan. 2.-The elections
which will be ht'd on Wednesday by
the General Asseniubly are holding the
centre of interest in legislative and
political circles. And the most unex
pected development in the whole
group of places to be filled is the op
position to Associate .Justice T. 13.
Fras~er. The name of George S. 'low
er, one of (the rlepresentatLives froi
Newberry and Speaker pro ten of the
house, has been brought forward in
opposition to Just lee Fraser, and this
situation hias caused a great deal of
talk around the capitol. A former In
Ilinential mebinher of the general as
seinibly arrived suddenly in Coluli
l;ia t le other uight to look into tho
miater', for he would hardly believe
that opliosition had develoi(ed to the
re-(lecd tion of Associate .lJustice ''. 11.
Praeri', of :'(tinier.
This l(ositlil is going to either in
cese( in interest or oppositiol to the
re-elect ion of .lu;tice Fraser will
Cese. 'Tile members have gone home
for the week-end and nothing positive
will appear to get a line on the situa
tion Until they return on \londay night
The warehouse conlissioner's race
is sI ill at t racting much interest. .Iohin
l.. lcLauin, who was last week en
dlorsed by the State Farners' tniont
and the South Carolina Wiarehouse As
sociation is opposed by F. M. Cary, of
Pickens, and .John .. Mc clahan of Co
luinbia. The unoflicial announcenment
from tle governor's ollice the uttier
day that he had no candidate for this
place was received with a good deal of
interest in both branches of the gen
eral assemtibly.
Alrs. Virginia iireen -\loody, State
libirariau; (aillon \V. Sawyer, ('omlp
t roller Gienerall, and 1''. IIl. .\le.\iaster,
ni:ua nceilli c 'on l i:si lli'n , w ill bi' re
elct l I' to .>u -1( ed thems:el((": 'w iinot
o si t i i. Th liis w1 ill tlb- lie Ith <ase i
l ( , i.' nli i +;J ;.a.,, .1laf1+1 .; V,. Ilk \Uor
aindu \ I. . bi , f lite 1 Til ailnd
12 1 ir; . To - e 1 or l ode" ("1om
m:ir : iio . bet V t .l .1 :ion .\l:-K is
i :c, l.' (.: n "i l .1. ('. lii. :u .w 1, o1:
C(olial i . 1. (:rroll of l;;(li.iberg,
and i I... IRijleY, of l.ennettls";ille'.
Othei oit(liion-s to be lilled alt the
joint ia.wmlbIily oil \Wednlesday ale the
followiig:
I wo ti usties O Winthrop College, 11.
it. Tillman and 1). V. .\lelaurin terms
I)ii"ec(tors of State Penliitenltiary,
tot mlk o1 Wi. 1I. Glenna and1( A. II. I law
kias expired.
TIwo tustecs oif thet Unir.u-ty ofi
:indu t. I. Spencer ex pireid.
Iian and S. TI. .'\('d,\own exlpire,.
Two trdutees of Stale {'oloreid Col
lege, terms of U. I. Wh'lite eXplired,
and0 J1. W. Floyd, deceased.
Two mlemb~lers board of' vlsi tors of
thle t'itadel, terms of W. W. Laewis and~
Johna P. Th'lomas exIIred.
Inldilent 1io ae thaitt aill of t hese wIll
lbe electedl to succeed thienmselves, tile
only contest In sighlt beIng for direc
tors of the State penlitentiar'y. All of
the trutsteies will undoubtedly be chos
en for another term, the place of Gen.
Floyd on1 thle State colored College be..
lag filled by C. F. Urooks, of Laurens,
whoe was appointed to thle vacancy by
Glovernor' Manning.
When tile Senate reassebles1C on
Monday nlighit at 8 o'clock debate on
the Verner bill1 seeking to abolish ..ii
schlolarshlips anld fr'ee tuition In Stato
colleges will be resumed. There are
several amelndmlents pendling to the
bill, one by Senator Calisle which
would allow boys unlable to paIy their
tuition to give thleir notes endorsed by
their parents or guardians for sarme
and pay tile notes withlin two years
after graduation, and one by Senator
Williams, of Alken, just to takqe thle
straight notes of the students withoid
any endorsements.
Senator Alan Johnstone wants thd
(Continued on Page Ten.)
