ft
.
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
31
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
Xg? ..
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
ON TRAINS AND NEWS
STANDS FIVE CENTS
CP, W i. lift II aaiMiH
IN
lL
A ABOUT
msm conduct
Must Not Try to Brush Neutrals A With Strong Kand-
Protests of Sweden and America Call Out Admission by
i Press of England's Dependence on United States Tele-
1 graph Says: We Have Had Experience With Consequen
ces of Imperious and Dictorial Conduct."
London, Jan. 26. The British government has virtual
ly decided to stand pat on its present trade regulations
instead of announcing establishment of an actual block
ade against Germany in parliament this afternoon, ac
cording to the majority of experts today.
Only a few newspapers clung to the belief that the
cabinet will change the policy radically. The govern
ment may tighten the present regulations in some ways
but it is believed that the cabinet is against a revolution
ary change.
Protests of America and Sweden against the reported
plans have cooled the advocates of an actual blockade.
Newspapers displayed prominently the warlike utterances
of the Swedish premier, while the Telegraph and News
cautioned the government not to involve neutral nations
in a controversy.
"Press firebrands," said the News, "have demanded
that the government brush neutral nations from its path
with a strong hand, but what would be the position of the
allies if the vast resources of the United States ceased to
be at their command?"
The Telegraph commented thus:
"The country may be content with the present meas
ures, which, if slow, are sure and have hitherto
been abundant without severing friendly relations with
neutral nations. We have had experience with the cm-
sequences of imperious and overbearing conduct. .
Introduction of a blockade resolution by Arthur Benn
was expected to open the parliamentary debate; in ans
wer, it was expected Sir Edward Grey would deny that
the present "blockade" is ineffective.
MEXICAN SITUATION BRINGS BILLS AND DEBATES IN CONGRESS
tj A ii I ViV
I vTii" 1 "V " Hi V 1
NVfovyv ?t- s i Sir j yp
I t . j I-r w 1 ilk I - w
Left to right, top
Senator C. S. Thomas, Congressman L. C. Dyer, Senator Sherman.
Gallinger, Senator Stone and Senator Boiah.
Bottom: Senator
Washington. .Tan. 2G. Negotiations
over tiiP torpeil )ng of the Lusitania
have .levelopeil into a diplomatic duel.
A buttle of wovds between the Berlin
foreign office and the state depart
ment is a foregone eonelusion, with
Ainbissador Von Bernstorf f and Secre
tary of IStnte Lansing as the fighters.
The two sides are diametrically op
posed on the vital point of the situa
tion an admission that Herman' illeg
nllv and wrongfully sank the vessel,
-ith loss of m.uiy lives including Am
ericans. It is understood today that
t ie administration has rejected as un
wiiisfai'tury and evasive the phraseol
ogy of the settlement thus far suggest
ed, in tlermany's latest note on the
ci' "e.
The Ambassador and jinsing enter
ed into conference shortly before 12
u clock.
Those close in touch with the posi
timi of (ieimnnv were insistent today
that a final adjustment is near and
that it will be satisfactory to the ad
ministration. 'No matter what the United States
dein.inds, " said one diplomat, "the
mutter will soon be adjusted."
At the same time, the Herman cm-
l!ssy predicted that everything will
l't cleared up by tiie end of next week.
This was taken to indicate that the
embassy expects from Iterlin a rat if i
i a 1 ion of a concession to the I'uited
Abe Martin
St.ites demand for a complete disavow
al. England Has Replied.
Washington, .Ian. 20. Kngland has
tentatively replied to the I'uited States
note protesting British seizure of mail
passing between America and neutral
countries, and the state department
plans to make public Friday both the
protest aad the answer.
It is understood that tho United
States contended that Great Britain
has no jurisdiction over first class mail
to neutral nations, involuntarily plac
ed before British courts. Knglaad has
the rigiit, it was admitted, to censor
mail en route through Great Britain,
but not mail directly sent to neutrals,
but forced en route to enter Great
Britain.
Discussing Blockade.
London, Jan. 2b'. After a resolution
for a blockade of Germany had been in
troduced in the house of commons this
afternoon, Sir Edward Grey indicated
that the government has no intention
of declaring an actual blujckade at
present.
"The government's thorough investi
gation of shipments to Germany," said
Grey, "shows that the utmost is be
ing done without causing serious trou
bles with neutral nations."
lie complained !of gross misstate
ments in the press regarding American
shipments to neutrals, and lie denied
that the figures proved that shippers
are continuing large shipments to Ger
ninny through neutrals.
We rre telling the United States,"
said Grey, "in reply to the last Wash
ington note, that we are considering
the whole matter in consultation with
France and that we may later con
sult our other allies.''
ENGLISH LABOR LOYAL
- Now that the Mexican situation has again become acute, senators and representatives are busy intro
ducing bills and making speeches dealing with the present crisis. Senators Borah, Thomas, Gallinger and
Stone have made speeches advocating armed intervention in case Carranza is unable to handle the situation.
In. the house Representative Dyer has offered a resolution asking the president if it is not time to invade
Mexico. Senator Sherman has introduced a resolution calling for intervention on the part of the United
Stales and other Pan-American nations in case Canunz4. does not restore order at once.
:1
HE REFUSED PAROLE.
l'ortland, Or., Jan. 20. Of
his own volition, Joseph Hau
ser, aged 50) is en route to .Sa
lem today to Bervc an indeterm
inate sentence of 1 to ten years
for horse stealing. He didn 't
have to go, but he doesn't be
lieve in judicial ciemency.When
Judge C'avanaiigli offered to
parole him yesterday, Hauser
scorned the liberty. Though
protesting his innocence, he said
lie wouldn't accept hia liberty
under a cloud.
i
I
IS SEATTLE FIRE;
TODAY'S ODDEST STORY.
TVVOAREMISSfNG
Tomorrow WiU Be
Jewish Relief Day
By proclamation of the president,
Thursday, January 27, has been set
aside as the day when contributions
will be received in all parts of the
country for the suffering Jews in the
war zono of Europe. Following the
suggestion of H. Steinboch, president
of tiie local Jewish organization, the
civics department of the commercial
club passed a resolution last night en
dorsing the proclamation of the presi
dent. H. Steinboch, in an address before
the meeting said that tho city would
be organized into five districts, and
that a committee would be appointed
to receive money for this fund. Ernest
Blue, M. Soloff and II. Steinboch have
been appointed on the committee and
others will be selected this evening.
The office of the Portland Railway,
Light and Power company, and the
commercial club have been designated
as daces where subscriptions will be
received.
Fire Started in a Lot of Hemp
on Fourth Floor of Walker
Building
WANT PROTECTION.
Bristol, England, Jan. 20. By a big
majority representatives of over 2,000,
000 workingmen in convention today
pledged support to the government.
The resolution under which this
promise was given failed to mention niittee.
me siiD.ieet or conscription, out the
new compulsory service measure is
practically certain to be denounced iu
resolutions later.
Washington, Jan. 20. An increased
protective tariff on lemons and oranges
as an emergency war measure in behalf
of California was asked by Represen
tatives Church, Kettner, .ind President
H. Harold Powell of the California
Fruit Growers at a hearing today be-
lore the house ways and means com-
GOING ON THE BEACH
PEACE TRIBUNAL MEETS
Stockholm, Jan. 26 The lieary Ford
permanent peace tribunal, minus sev
eral members, held its first formal ses
sion here todiy. It was announced that
the first work will be a study of the
causes of the war, in order that the
gathering mar be the better able to
Portland, Or., Jan. 26. The French
bark Bavard, drifting helplesslv near
Cape Lookout, is going on the beach, 'reach peace proposals.
i lie xug vrueoum reporieu mis aiier-i m
noon. The steamer Avnlon removed WILL NOT SUSPEND WORK.
tiie Bayard's crew. Her masts ire I Tn.linnannlia ta t- oa Tk r-
fragging by the board, making herded Mine Workers of America voted TIe other half is occupied by the Bowles
CAUGHT IN TRAP THREE
LEAP FROM FIFTH STORY
Two Still Unaccounted For
Are Believed to Have
Made Escape
Seattle, Wash., Jan. 26
Six persons are known to have
perished and two others have
not yet been accounted for as
the result of a fire which swept
the Walker building, downtown
here today.
Three men leaped to their
death from the fifth floor of
the building when their escape
was cut off by fire on the
fourth floor, and firemen found
the bodies of three others cn the
fifth floor when they succeeded
in fighting their way through
the flames.
After blazing furiously for
two hours the fire was brought
under control at 10:30 o'clock.
Milwaukee, Wis. Jan. 20 The
five Froinm brothers, Marathon
county, Wisconsin, hunters since
infancy, probably have the lar
gest black fox farm in the
world, and one of the five stays
up all night every night with
the foxes. Fifty foxes, worth
$2,000 each, are guarded both
day and night by the brothers
and a small army of watchdogs.
The boys are all college men
and are also musicians.
Seattle, Wash., Jan. 26. Trapped in a
fire which originated in a lot of hemp
on the fourth floor, three men jumped
from the fifth floor of the Walker
building at First avenue south and
Jacksou street at 8:30 o'clock this
morning and met almost instant death.
The building was half unoccupied
hard to handle.
KILLED IN COLLISION.
i overwhelmingly today not to suspend
work in the coal fields April 1 if new
agreements have not been concluded by
rr ,1. T. It. ...... . . ... luoi 11U1C,
iftM ortiiiioi?. a iravenn urn-
lurller mender, wnz rut in tail herfli killed and at least tUrro injured in at RECONCILIATION IMPOSSTBT.fi
yiaterday. au' 'II have t' camel a 'collision between two Milwaukee trains! Salt Lake City, I'tah, Tan. 26. Re
couple o' mouths o' southern dites..17 miles east of Othello this morning. ! conciliation between V. Li. Hood, San
Mi Tawney Apple is so chilly she has The dead are: George Rait, engineer of j Diego hotel man. and hi. wife who
t' put nnti-l reoe in her hot water hot-! westbound train Xo. 17. n.l tan n. nma lir ;th .i-mn..i twi.i . a.
company, plumbing supplies.
The hemp was moved into the build
ing recently from Pier 14 which had
been destroyed by fire.
Ray Kinkleman, of Tacoma, who 'se
cured the contract for drying1 the hemp
which had been damaged in the fire at
Pier 14 was working in the bnilding
with a number of employes. Most of
Three Business Places
Undergoing Repairs
Three business store rooms are un
dergoing repairs and improvements for
new tenants on State street, between
Liberty and High. Now that the
weather is about to moderate, workmen
were busy today shelving the store
room formerly occupied by the Walker
Fish and Poultry market, leased by
the Westacott and Thielsen grocery.
They hope to move into their new quar
ters next week. Tne adjoining store
room to be occupied by Kafoury Bros,
will soon be ready fur its new tenants.
This room has been fitted with new
shelving anil will be furnished through
out with all that is latest in store fix
tures.
The business rosm in the Salem bank
of commerce building to be occupied
by tho Poole drug store is undergoing
repairs. The latest drugstore construc
tion. The name will be changed to
that of "The Central Pharmacy", with
A. B. Poole business manager, and A.
Tyner Woolperr, prescription manager.
Superintendent Hale
Talked to the Boys
' Mr. Hale, of the state training school
for boys, spoke last, night at the An-
l nual Brotherhood Boy Guest Banquet
ai iesne cnurcn. Jir. Jiaie, alter siz
ing up tho large crowd of boys present,
said. "Well boys, you are a'fine look
ing bunch of fellows, but I've got just
as good looking a bunch out it my
school." He then ' proceeded to give
his ideas that he didn't think there ev
er was a bad boy. "Boys are boys,"
said he, "and if they didn't have" the
desire to fight, and get into mischief,
I wouldn't care the snap of my finger
for them."
Mr. Barber, superintendent of the
Sunday school, had is his guest, the
Leslie Loyal Sons class, twenty-five in
number, also their teacher. To say
that the boys enjoyed it would be stat
ing it mildly. They had as they said
the "time of their lives."
BOOM IE PROSPERITY
PROMISEE HE COAST'
SSSS""- Sf MM
Three San Francisco Plants Plan Increase of Equipments
Union Iron Works Has Orders for $20,000,000 Worth of
Products and Unlimited Orders in Sight Pacific Coast
Steel to Add $500,000 to Plant- Five Million to h Ex
pended in Kelp Machinery to Obtain Potash.
San Francisco, Jan. 26. Boom time prosperity on the
Pacific coast is an actuality, not a" dream, said business
men today following announcement from three sources of
extensions of already thrifty plants.
The three plants, planning increases in their equip
ment are :
The Union Works here.
The Pacific Coast Steel company of South San Fran
cisco. The Hercules Powder company of Pinole.
President McGregor of the Union Iron Works is baek
from a conference with heads of the Bethlehem Steel com
pany in the east, with the tidings that the concern must,
and will, enlarge to keep pace with the swamping or
ders for more ships. Just what land will be obtained is
not yet definite, but there is a possibility that the com
pany will take over the Moore and Scott works. The
company has $20,000,000 worth of orders now, and is in a
position, it is said, to get an unlimited further amount
when it has facilities to handle the business. Simultane
ously with the Union Iron Works announcement came
the statement that the Pacific Coast Steel company plans
to add an additional $500,000 to its present investment
and to start making structural steel on a large scale,
using Chinese pig iron and California fuel oil. To this
end, the contract has been closed for more open hearth
furnaces. It is estimated the increased facilities will em
ploy 150 men in addition to the 00 already on the pay
roll.
The third evidence of boom times came in announce
ment from the Hercules Powder company that it is ready
to expend $5,000,000 in kelp reapers to obtain kelp from
which potash, used in amunition and fertilizer is obtain
ed. This company plans erection ot a plant at ban Diego
for reduction of the potash.
Steel Stock Jumps in East.
New York, Jan. 26. Following an
announcement of issuance of a divi
dend on "little steel," that stock
imped into the limelight with a bang
today.
fifteen thousand shares wero sold at
tho nneninsr of the exch.tnee at from
So 3-8 to 86, as against a high of 85 1-2
yesterday.
Wall Street's judgment that the
country is making money haying been
coniirmeu oy tne common uiviucuu, mo
street is expected to throw itself into
a boom. The fact that the earnings or
the Steel Corporation in the last quar
ter were $6,000,000 more than any
quarter in tne History oi roo concern,
was pointed to as an indication that
the business of the country is greater
than even the experts realized.
In answer to tho argument that a
iolent industrial slump may be expect
ed after the demmd for munition
ceases, optimists declared that during;
the rehabilitation of Europe, the de
mand for machinery and other steel
and iron products will be almost. a
great as the present demand for muni
tions. -
"This basic industry gtnges th
economic condition of the country,"
said the Sun today. "Tho steel divi
dend in an unmistakable vote of con
fidence in the soundness and enduring
quality of our prosperity by about the
most representative body of American
financial and business interests."
"The storjt of steel Is the story of
the nation," said the Tress, "with tho
firm of the west and south, the factory
of tho north and east, and the lumber
camp, mine, livestock range and dairy
of the west all miuting money for the
people of America, while 20,000,000 of
their fellow men strain and struggle on
the battlefields of Europe."
PAYS SoME DIVIDEND
tie.
identified hoboes.
I gro, is believed to be impossible.
(Continued on Page
San Francisco, J.in. 26. The Associ
ated Oil company, a subsidiary of the
Southern Pacific Railroad company
paid $1,7S9.09j in dividends and laid
asido a surplus of Il'S'OS duriu; 19 Id,
Stock Market Shows
Weakening of Prices
(Copyright 1916 by the eW York
Evening J'ost.;
New York, Jan. 26. Professionals so
completely dominated tod.iy's market
that it is hardly profitable to discuss
its vagaries seriously. The market op
ened with overnight advances of from
a fraction in railways to two points in
industrial issues, ostensibly, on the
basis of tho United States Steel Cor
poration's earnings and dividend on
common stock. Aggressive selling and
a general decline, however, ensued,
liailway shares suffered the most, be
cause they have not lately been the
mnrlr Fnr annnnl i i ra flpllincr On the
scale of the war stocks; and second,
because tne sellers were aoie io mae
much, of the foreign liquidation and of
the railway employes demaads for
higher pay. The net declines were ex
tremely irrekular, but general, and the
early afternoon recovery did not hold.
REMOVING AMERICANS
Washington, Jan. 26 A special train
left Chihuahua City yesterday to bring
out employes of the Yoquiro Develop
ment company and other Ameriacn ref
ugees with them at Minaca, said a
state department dispatch today. Con
sul billiinan at Queretaro is doing his
utmost to comply with American de
mands for rapture and punishment of
the murderers of IS Aericans at Santa
Ysabel.
according to preliminary information
regarding the annual report made pub
lic today. The rereipts were $1,900,772
and deductions 3,0S,70S.
ONE STEAMEE SUNK
Jutland, Or., Jan. 26. The
steamboat George W. Simons
went to the bottom of the Wil-
lamctte river today and the
steamers Hassalo and Sarah
Dixon narrowly escaped a like
fate, because of bursting pipes,
the result of recent cold weather.
The Simons was tied to the
old Alaska dock when she went
down. The other vessels were
found to be leaking ' through
the pipes and the holes wero
stopped after their holds had
been filled with water.
.According to French statistics,, only
one-fourth of the aviation accidents
aro due to defest in aeroplanes.
J THE WEATHER
Oregon: Tonight
and Thursday un
settled, probably
snow; easterly
winds.
WIS roK JAH-l
