'6
-1-
I ! f i , ( i t 1 !
' ' ' - I ' ... t
- Tia man IjiilMl
VOL LVIII. NO. 125
POPULATION 23,219
NORWICH, CONN., THURSDAY, MAY : 25, 1916
12 PAGES ' 84 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Dcubb Thaof Any Other Paper, r.d Its Total Circulatlcn is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population.
.w Ml
HIS RETAE
'AF
If
FORT BOUAIvlKl
Suffered Enormous Losses Under a Rain of Shot and
and Shell From the French
ATTACK AFTER ATTACK MADE AGAINST THE FORT
Several Tupes the Attacks Were Put Down With Heavy
Losses Two Fresh Divisions of Bavarians Were Used
, The French Still Retain the Immediate Approach to the
Fort French in Spirited Counter Attacks Recaptured
German Trenches on the Southern Outskirts of the
Village of Cumieres Austrian Are Keeping Up Their
Violent Offensive Against the Italians.
Cabled Paragraphs
Italian Ship Sunk.
London. Mav 25. 12.50 a. m. The
Italian ship Oreallathas been sunk oft
Barcelona, according to Lloyds.
w ,
Appointed Bishop of Omaha.
Rome. Italy. May 24. The Most
Rev. Jeremiah J. Harty, archbishop of
Manila since 1913, has been appointed
bishop of Omaha.
NOTES HANDED BRITISH
Separate Peace
Talk in Commons
ARTHUR PONSONBY ATTACKS
GOVERNMENT'S DIPLOMACY
Wilsons at Gordon-
Grayson Nuptials
CAME TO NEW YORK ESPECIALLY
FOR THE CEREMONY
Condensed Telegrams
Cash contributions to" the 4th Ger
man war loan have, reached a total
of $2,229,750,000. . ,
A Japanese firm" his loaned China
$3,000,000 van on' security of Iron
mines In Hunan Province.
Woman suffrage- was . indorsed bv
me aaeuioaist episcopal General Con-
ierence at Saratoga, n. X.
A gigantio industrial fair will be I
"Studio" Woman
- In Waite Trial
MRS. HORTON CAST SORROWING
GLANCES AT ACCUSED .
and french ambassadors I EDWARD GRAY REPLIES OCCUPIED - FRONT PEW Ji. v,.t RELATIONS
PLATONIC
Protesting British Treatment of Neu
tral Mails on the High Seas.
Washington, May 24. Identical
notes renewing the protest of ' the
United States against British treat
ment of neutral mails on the high
seas were handed to the British and
French ambassadors today by Acting
Secretary Polk of the state depart
ment. The documents were signed
by Scretary Lansing at his home,
where he has been ill for several days.
-The United States reiterates .' in
more vigorous terms its objection to
Ponsonby Condemned Prolonging the
War Merely for the Sake of Obliga
tions to Great Britain's Allies.
London. (May 24. 10.34 n m In
impromptu speech in the house of
commons tonight on the question of
peace ana me propriety of "employing
the American press as a platform,"
subjects unexpectedly raised -by Ar-
England conscription bill is now -
and - Mrs. Wilson Joined fore King-George for signature, the The Accused Wu Pale an4 III at P.. a
i President
Other Guests in . Showering the
Newly weds With Confetti.
New York. May 24. President and
Mrs. Wilson were the chief guests to
day at the wedding of 0r. Cary x,
Gravson. thn White House physician.
and Miss Alice Gertrude Gordon, of
Washington and New York, in the
chapel of St. George s church.
Forty thousand circulars ureter
public school students in Toledo to
"swat the fly" are being distributed.
Direct cable communication with
Shanghai has been restored, the Com-
mrecial cable company announced.
as Mrs. Horton Testified Wife ' of
the Prisoner. Sobbed at Intervals.
New Vfirlr UTav MVn ,U.fat
Weaver Horton, the young woman
with whom Dr. Arthur Warren Waite,
tiiw seizure aim ueienuua jl icgiu- i - ; . . mvmuti , v i , . . .
mate mail matter bound to and from srling, Scotland, in a strong address I Pent IZlJjZ,!
the United States and insists particu- atal?n? th government for allowing
larlv that n-tvat. Ttritaln tttnn the ulphmnatio -etiquette to stand in' the
practice of seizing vessels on the high! wav ofpossfble peace pour parleys. Sir
seas and taking them into port to vney, iue Dnusc loreign sec-
subject mail aboard to local regula-1 retary, set aside all ideas that peace
tions. . I '6uiuuiis were possroie at tne pres.
Adolph von Batocki, president of the conf poisoner of his wife's par-
Province of East Prussia, has been ema- ."hua;Iea languages and shared a
The appointed food dictator of Germany. Jftuaio in a fashionable New York
foreigners . entering Guadelope V1 or. murder wnat considered
All
ceremony and departed soon afterward " : ' ' w"ii" I tne
ror vv asninsnon. ' i : . :
. - I by JbTencn- consuls at the ports of de
Presidential Party. - - : ' I parture.
nanied bv Secretary and Mrs. Mc- I Mai. Gen. Wood has accepted an in-
Adoo- Miss Helen Wooarow Bones, tne 1 vimuun iu review wuu wv. j&cau
Th nrvta was irlvn trv t.TiA rpnmlpn- 1 t:nt Stage ana Plainly Stated That Uie I :j i i . ri -l t rMn. I ond nthpr Rmtnn'n nranonulnaaa no-
" , -' ' r .. - a - . I UlCSlUUil O SU11J, AW "v I ' " w-w.
tatives or both ifrance anu ureat tin-1 way i of Chicago, and John Randolph Boll- I taae.
tain - oecause i ranee iormaiiy concur
red in the British memorandum re
plying to the first American protest.
It probably will be made public Sat
urday in London, .Parish and Wash
ington, by agreemnt.
TTrwfoi. Mln rtf Vinf and nhAll xllirh
tnflicrted enormous losses, the Ger
mans have again taken Fort Douau
mont, northeast of Verdun, from the
(French. As if somewhat to even the
iBOore, the French in spirited counter
I attaoks northwest of Verdun recap
tured from the Germans trenches of
6 the southern outskirts of the village of
IJGumieres, which the Germans liad oc
cupied in the late fighting, and also
topped with their artillery several
attempts of the Germans to- debouch
from the village.
The lighting around Fort Douaumont
wias furious, the . Germans launching
attack after attack against the fort,
employing among others two fresh di
visions of Bavarians. Several times
the attacks were put down with heavy
losses, tout finally tine Germans sucr
ceeded In reoccupying the point of van
tage wmca tney naa neia virtually
since the commencement of the Ver
d-un offensive until the French drove
them out several days . ago. The
French still retain the immediate ap
proach to the fort.
On the Austro-Italian front the Aus
trians from the Lake Garda region to
the Val Sugana district are keeping up
ilieir violent offensive against the
Italians. Driven across their border
southeast of Trent, the Italians are en
deavoring to hold a fortified line from
Asiago to Arsiero and the heights east
of the Val D'Essa, but the Austrians
report that they have captured over
25,000 officers and men, 251 cannon, 101
machine sruns and 16 'ixmrb tnrowers.
Rome admits that in effecting their
retreat across the border the Italians
destroyed artillery which it was im
possible to withdraw.
The usual fighting .Is in progress
along the Russian front between the
Teutonic allies and the Russians and
in Asiatic Turkey "between the Turks
and the 'Russians and the British and
Turks. No material change in one sit.
uation anywhere in these several war
theatres has been reported.
CONSTRUCTION WORK HELD' ,
UP AT NEW HAVEN.
TO TEST SANITY OF BOY ,
INDICTED FOR MURDER
Harold Croft to be Taken to School
v. ...i-i for Feable , M inded.w, ,.
Boston, May 24. Harold Craft, a 16
"year old boy under indictment for
murder, was released on (10,000 bail
in the superior court today at the re
quest of District Attorney Pelletier as
a etep in an unusual experiment. Bond
was furnished by a member of the
district attorney's staff.
To determine whether the boy, who
beat to death an infant cousin left in
'his care four months ago, is insane or
'. degenerate, he will be taken to the
; state school for feeble-minded at Wa
;verly and observed. .If found abnor
mal, he will be.;committed to an asy
"lum until cured. Should the tests
show the boy to be sane, he will re
turn here to stand trial.
The district attorney in taking what
he described as an action without pre
cedent in this state, said be wished
to avoid the development of a case
similar to that of Jesse Pomeroy, who
is serving a. life sentence in solitary
confinement at the state prison for
acta committed in his youth. Craft,
he said, had been found normal after
examination in his cell, but that other
results might follow if he were placed
in more natural surroundings.
SYSTEMATIC SUP-ERVISION
OF HOME MISSION FIELD
A BILL TO RECOVER TITLE
,TO 3,200,000 ACRES OF LAND
Granted to the Oregon and California
Railroad 50 Years Ago.
Washington, May 24. A bill to re
cover title to 8,200,000 acres of land
worth more than $30000,000 granted
to the Oregon and California railroad
by the federal government fifty years
ago was brought up in the. house to
day. The measure would authorize
suit against the railroad for recovery)'
of funds received for .sale of 800,000
acres of lands at more than J 2. 50 an
acre, contrary to provisions of the
original grant.
ground that an injunction against dis
position of the lands Issued Ia& De
cember 9, by the supreme court of the
United States expires June 9. The
measure is of special interest to 16,
000 persons to whom agents sold the
land and who were deprived of their
rtgrns by the supreme court decision.
The bill would provide for classifica
tion of the 3.200.00O acres as water
power sites, timber lands and agri
cultural lands and for bale of timber
tracts and homesteading of non-tim
ber tracts at J2.50- an acre.
Plan Adopted by General Conference
C -the, M,. r E,; -C,hu ccfrw. ,
S'aratoga Springs,' N. Y., May 24.
A more systematic supervision of the
home mission' field, with the control
centralized in one head, is provided in
a new plan for administration of this
branch of the activities of the Meth
odist Episcopal church which was
adopted today by the general confer
ence. Department superintendents
will be in charge of special work in
evangelism in the cities, rural com
muni ties, the frontiers and church ex
tension. - .
In support of the plan it was urged
that missionary work among the for
eign population of the United States
is just as necessary as that in other
parts or tne world.
Tne soul -of a Chinaman in an
American laundry is worth saving just
as much as that of a "man across the
sea," asserted Whitford L, McDowell
of Washington, J. C, : in presenting
the report. Details of the plan will
oe agreed upon tomorrow.
An American navy,- the equal in
strength of that of Germany, was
urged by former President William
H. Taf t tonight. He said he chose
Germany as a model because no other
European power can mobilize and
land on American shores within
month a military force sufficient to
conquer the country. He insisted that
a navy is primarily a means of de
fense and therefore particularly es
sential to a republic "
He said he favored participation by
the United States in any international
congress summoned. after the war for
the purpose of devising means to in
sure permanent peace.
HENRY FORD REPLIES
TO NAVAL LEAGUE
Conditions Under Which He Will Ap
pear in $100,000 Suit.
RUBLEE REMAINS WITH .
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
Notwithstanding Action of Senate in
Rejecting His Nomination.
wuiuseu. . I . hrnthsr nf (Mm Wiloin Arrived
No Time to Talk Peace. : I at the chapel promptly at 4 o'clock I Directors of the Chicago Board, of
Sir Edward declared iat tr im-1 and the' ceremony was at once tegun. Trade have been -petitioned to close
Strike of Hod Carrieds and Laborers
Becomes More General.
poesrme to consider terms of peace
without a previous agreement between
tne entente allies. Further, he ex
pressed the decided opinion that the
hostilities had not yet reached a stage
Where it was possible to talk of peace,
especially as tne German public was
constantly being "fed witli lies" by
tneir ministers.
Mr. and Mrs. Wilson were ushered to I the Exchange on Saturday,
the front pew of the chapel which ireparedness Day,
was solidly hanked with, white flowers.
No Bridesmaids.
The ceremony was performed by the
Rev. William J. Cox. of Philadelphia,
who used the Episcopal service. Miss
Gordon had no bridesmaids and was
given away by Patrick W. Flournoy,
June - 3,
Mortimer O'Connor, an American
citizen, has been arrested in North
Kerry, Ireland, in connection with the
political disturbance.
-Mrs. Louis Brayton of Madison,
Wis., celebrated her 104th birthday.
dual
xnis alleged Jekvll-HvriA ntnm nt
Waite, the evil side of which, he has
asserted, manifested itself in the form
of a "little man from Egypt," gave
the first Inkling of the theory upon
which Waite's lawyers will proceed in
tneir errorts to prove he was insane
at the time he killed John E, Peck.
Cast Sorrowing Glances at Waite.
Mrs.- Horton. who cast sorrowing
glances at Waite as he sat Dale and
outwardly ill at east not more than
twenty ieet from her, followed Mrs.
(Continued on Page Eight)
FATALLY HURT IN HEAD-ON
AUTOMOBILE COLLISION
New Haven, Conn., May 24. The
strike of hod carriers and laborers
on construction work was more gen-
American Press as a "Platform.? J of Charleston, W. "Ua. Her aunt, Mrs. I She never rode In an automobile or Chauffeur Arrested for Drivina While
' llir 3 LI V. "Vav.1t n.i a I t .... I
Mr. Poneonby's reference to the use
of the American press as a "platform"
was the outgrowth of a recent inter-
eral today than at an ytime in the view with Sir Edward Grey. Sir Ed
past week. A contracting firm brought I ward in replying to this attack, while
men here from Boston to do work on I admitting that important disclosure of
street pavements but these men quit I policy ought first to be made to parlia
work today. Street improvements ment, argued that a crisis might arise
have been stopped and the director of
public works, James Howarth, call-1
ed Mayor Rice's attention to the out
look. There has been no trouble as
yet. Many of the larger jobs have
been picketed.
The C. W. Blakeslee company ofrer-
during the war when considerations of
etiquette should not be allowed to
stand In the way. He contended that
since German statesmen constantly are
giving . interviews ana statements to
the American press, it would be "mere
pedantry which would hinder . British
Wood Flournoy, of New York, was
also present. Surgeon A. M. Faunt
leroy, U. S. N., acted as best man
and Colonel W. W. Harts, U". S. A.,
military aide to the president, and
Captain' Robert L. Berry, U. S. N.,
the president's naval aide, were ush
ers, all three accompanying the groom
in the walk to tne cnapei. -
Cheers for President Wilson.
After the ceremony, the wedding
party went to Mrs. Flournoy s resi
dence for a reception, only a small
saw a motion picture.
China has purchased 7 .500.000 silver
pesos from , the Philippines insular
government. - The latter cleared 20
per cent on the deal.
Murry C. Vandiver, well known poli
tician of Maryland for the last 40
years, died of general debility at Si-
ballsvllle, Md., aged 71.
James J. Hill is reported to be im
proving from an illness which has
group of relatives and Intimate friends J kept him at his home at St. Paul,
ed Its men $2.75 a day but the labor- statesmen from countering these state
ments in tne interest of their own
country. . . .
Mr. Ponsonby argued in favor of
j countenancing peace possibilities and
against prolonging the war merely for
tne sake or obligations to Great Brit
ain's allies. The speaker eaid if the
war had to be continued until Con-
ers stopped work just the same, leav
ing Dennis A. Blakeslee, the con
cern's head, iff" a quandary as to what
his men want.
FliRST MOTORCYCLE COMPANY
IN UNITED STATES ARMY
Fort
Organization Was Begun at
L. '. .. ls;a' .vYastarday...,.
El Paso, Texas, May 24. Organiza
tion of the first motorrrvele comnaiiv
in tfle United States army was begun
at Fort Bliss here today.
First Lieutenant Clyde L. Eastman,
of the Thirteenth Infantry, was placed
in command, with Second Lieutenant
Floyd C. Hecox, of the Seventh In
fantry, a second officer. Eight non
commissioned officers and 33 privates
were assigned to the company, which
soon will be detailed to active service
west of El Paso along the New Mex
ico and Arizona borders.
(Continued, on Pago Eight
CONVENTION OF FEDERATION
OF WOMEN'S CLUBS
of the couple attended. Both at the
church and at the home of 'Mrs, Flour- I
noy, several hundred people clapped
and cheered when the president ar
rived . and departed. A large contin
gent of city police and secret service
men were on hand, to guard him.
Three Weeks' Wedding Tour...
Dr. . and Mrs. Grayson left t-aight
for a three weeks' wedding tour and I
.'(Continued on Page Six)
BIGAMY lS DISCLOSED
BY NON -SUPPORT ARREST.
Frederick Alexander Saunders of New
London Arrested, in Torrington.
Torrington, Coni., May 24. The ar
rest here yesterday of Frederick Alex
ander Sasm-ders for New
NAVAL APPROPRIATION BILL
CALLING FOR $241,000,000
Delegates From All the States, Cuba, I Was Submitted in the House by the
Porto Rico, Alaska and Philippines.
New York. May 24. Nine thousand
delegates, alternates and visitors from
all the states in the union and from
Cuba, Porto Rico, Alaska and the
Philippines, filled the Seventh Regi
ment Armory here tonight at the first
general session of the thirtenth bien
nial convention of the General Feder
ation of Women's clubs." More than
two thousand specators wer turned
away at the doors. Of those in the
armory, 1,500 were men.
The auditorium began to fill at 7
o'clock. An hour later the crowd be
came so dense tnat tne doors were
closed and police reserves were call
ed. Five women' were overcome in
Minn., for several day3.
The crew of the Greek steamer Ad-
amantios Korais. sunk in. the Medi
terranean by an Austrian submarine,
was landed at Marseilles.
After working one day. followina a
three weeks' strike, 1,200 miners went
on strike at the 'Lehigh Coal Co 's
collieries, at Tamaqua, Pa.
- A strike of employes of the National i
Railway of Mexico has resulted in
the suspension of service between
Manzanillo and Mexico City.
Under Influence of Liquor.
South Manchester. Conn.. Maw .
Richard Ahearn of New Britain was
perhaps fatally hurt in a head-on au
tomobile collision at Laurel Park to
night, A machine in which he was
riding with F. B. McClunie of Hart
ford, ran into a car driven by John
btimpson of East Hartford. Ahearn
was thrown out into the roadway and
his skull fractured. He was taken to
a Hartford hospital where it was said
nis condition was serious. None of
the . others involved in the smashun
was seriously hurt. McClunie was
later arrested charged with driving
an automobile while under the in
fluence of liquor.
Naval Committee.
Washington, May 24. An elaborate
report explaining the J21,000,000 na
val appropriation bill was submitted
to the house today by the naval com
mittee. At the same time the repub
lican members- of the committee Join
ed in a minority report to "be presented
tomorrow, attacking the measure as
inadequate and demanding that con
gress provide for a navy ranking sec
ond among the world's fighting forces
on the sea.
The bill, i which authorizes a build
ing program for next year, including
five great battle cruisers, is to -be
taken up in the house next Monday
or Tuesday under a special rule Hm-
Two new aeroplanes have arrived
for army service at the . border. The
manufacturers, however; neglected to
send propellors with the planes.
Col John L. Phillips, surgeon of the
army medical corps, shot and killed
himself at an army hospital at Wash
ington. He had been in poor health.
An appropriation of $200,000 for mil
itary instruction of the organized mi
litia at the . forthcoming national
encampment was voted by the Senate.
Striking silk mill workers at Allen-
town, Emaus, Walnutport, Slatington,
and Catasaqua, Pa, returned to .work,
having been granted increased wages.
A . . 1 J I J : & 1 : .. .
London j the cmsh and received attention at an! iting debate and providing for a final I ed maii on a Texas & Pacific train
county officers on the charge of non- I emergency hospital at the armory I vote before the end of the week.
support oi a wire ana emia in uiaiwitn nve aoctors ana ten nurses in l ah oppuoiimn io me meaouie is u
Lyme disclosed the fact that he had I attendance. I pected to come from the republican
two wives, the second beine Calista I With the arrival nf Governor "Whit. I side, as the building program is a
Viola Rogers, to whom he was ntar- man and Mrs. Whitman the conven-1 compromise on which the so-called big
ried here under the name of Frederick 1 tion was formally called to order by 1 and little navy democrats agreea.
Alexander Jampbell on April 26. oth I Mrs. Percy V. Pennybacker. president
of the federation, Mrs. William Grant
Brown, president of the New York
biennial board, which arranged for
the convention, presided with Mrs.
Pennybacken Miss Margaret Wilson,
daughter of the president occupied the
seat of honor between them.
bound from New Orleans for Fort
Worth, and escaped near Kaithville,
La.
Saunders and Miss Rogers had been I
employed in New London.
SOUTH DAKOTA FOR CUMMINS
FIRST; THEN FOR HUGHES
CHINESE HIGHBINDER
SAILS FOR CHINA
Wong Doo King Had' for Years Re
sisted Efforts to Deport Him.
A membership of 42,666, with a
net gain of 1594, was reported at the
annual convention at Boston of the
I Massachusetts Catholic Order of Foresters.
Washington, May 24. George Rub
lee was still in office today as mem
ber of the federal trade commission,
despite the senate's refusal yesterday
to reconsider its former- rejection of
his "" nomination. He probably will
continue to serve as a recess appointee
of President Wilson, although he can
draw no pay either for his past fifteen
months' service or for the future.
Rejection was based on senatorial
courtesy, Mr. Rublee having been per
sonally objectional to Senator Gallin
ger, republican leader. The vote was
a tie, 8 to 38, on a motion to recon
sider. A precedent was established
by the participation of Vice Presi
dent Marshall in an agreement to pair
his vote for reconsideration with that
of Senator Reed, who wash opposed to
reconsideration. r
This is the Plan for Delegates to the
Republican National Convention.
Pierre, S. D., May 24. Lieutenant
Governor Peter Norbeck has won the
republican nomination for governor of
South Dakota; according to returns
from yesterday's primaries, available
today. It was indicated his plurality
would fee not less than 10,000. Willis
C- Cook of Sioux Falls, . was elected
the South Dakota member of. the re
publican' national committee.
The harmony delegation to the Chi
cago convention has been elected, with
the exception of one member in the
first district, where the chaice remains
doubtful. In the first congressional
district the fight for the republican
nomination for congress between Con
gressman Dillon and -Speaker Christo
pherson , remained undecided. The
democrats elected ten delegates to the
St. Louis convention who will support
President Wilson.
SURGICAL OPERATION
PREVENTED BY HEAVY SEA
Captain of Greek Liner Died While
Surgeons Were Holding Radio Con
versation, i
Detroit, Mich, May 24. Henry Ford
.replied by letter to a telegram from
Robert M. Thompson, president of the
Navy League, in which Thompson no
tified him that the league had begun
suit for $100,000 against Ford. The
suit alleging libel is based - upon
charges which it is claimed that' Ford,
in his campaign against preparedness",
maae against tne league. .
i Mr. Ford in his reply agrees to have
ihis , appearance as defendant, in the
. case entered, provided the Navy
l League will bring all of its records
Unto court, and immediately place on
Ithe witness stand "for examination,
Its officers and such of its contributing
; members as we may designate." ,
OFFICERS SELECTED FOR
PROGRESSIVE CONVENTION.
Raymond Robins of Chicago Chosen as
Temporary Chairman.
'New York, May 24. Raymond Rob
Ins of Chicago was selected as . tem
' porary chairman of the national con
; vention of the progressive party at
j Chicago at a meeting here today of the
I executive committee of the progressive
national committee. Other officers se--lccted
were O. K. Davis of New York,
secretary, and ir. P. corrick of Ne
lbra6kajsjergeant-t;jX23Jft.
FOUR MINERS BURNED 'V '
- TO 'DEATH IN NEVADA
Heavy Damage Done Fire Started
Through Fuse Blowing Out.
Reno, Nev., May 24. Four miners
were burned to death and heavy dam
age done In the old belcher works of
the Yellow Jacket mine at Gold H11L
adjoining Virginia City, as a result of
a fire that broke out last night on the
1,400 foot level. At 11 o'clock today
it was still burning but was under
control, une. nre started through a
fuse blowing, out.
Kentucky Democrats Endorse Wilson.
Lexington, Ky., May 24. The dem
ocratic state convention which met
Tiere today elected eight delegates-at
large, two delegates and two alternates
from, each of the eleventh congres
sional districts to the democratic .na
tional convention at St.'Louis and in
structed them to vote for the re -nom
ination of President Wilson. .
on.
President Back In Washington.
Washington, May 24. President and
Mrs. Wilson returned from New York
shortly after midnight after attending
the wedding there of Dr. Cary T.
Grayson and Mies Alice Gertrude Gor-
New York, May 24. While two
ships' surgeons were holding a wire
less conversation to save his i life,
Captain Peter Paleologos, of the
Greek liner Vasilefs Constantinos died
of appendicitis In mid-ocean on the
last trip to Piraeus from New York,
according . to Captain Charles Zagor
as, of the sister ship Patris which ar
rived today.
When Captain Paleologos was tak
en ill . Dr. Helmls,' his ship's Burgeon,
consulted at once by wireless with Dr.
Hortis of the Patris, which was pass-
in n-M, V. n -nrnat-nro.. A . V.
The republic time Ibl
vuum, ivi hvi k gm rionlriorl n noatnnna an nn.
eration until the Constantinos reach
ed Gibraltar, rather than risk it with
the ship pitching In , the heavy sea.
The captain died, the next day.
San Francisco, May 24. Wong Doo
King, one of the richest and most in
fluential of the Chinese highbinders in
America, who had for years resisted
the efforts of the United States to de
port him, sailed for China today, vol
untarily. -
He came to San Francisco 45 years
ago. He was then la years old. Thrtft
and diligence won him wealth and a
natural gift for organization made
him a power among his fellow coun
trymen. His alleged activity in Tong
plots prompted the immigration au
thorities to secure his deportation, lie
fought to the last ditch and when fi
nal victory for the government be
came a certainty he agreed to leave.
TERRYVILLE MAN FOUND
GUILTY OF MANSLAUGHTER.
will support Senator
president'
EMBARGO LIFTED ON -LESS
THAN CAfRLOAD FREIGHT
For Transfer at New Haven,
London and Other Places.
New
BREAK IN STRIKE OF
BOSTON CLOTHING WORKERS
New Haven, tjonn., 'jaay 24. com
mencing at midnight tonight, the New
York, New Haven and Hartford Rail
road lifted the embargo on less than
carload freight for piers and for trans,
f er at Bridgeport,- New Haven, New
London, Waterbury, Plainville and !
Providence. -
Settlements Reached With Some
the Manufacturers.
of
NEW HAVENERS REGISTER
TO PLATTS BURGH CAMP.
Of 100 Signers a Majority Are Yale
'.'.; - Men. . i "
New Haven, Conn., May 24. Regis
tration for the Plattsburgh military
camp has brought over 100 signers in
New Havert. already, it was stated to.
day: A majority of the recruits are
Yale men, however, who will go from
here.
" Boston,- May 24. One thousand of
the - four thousand union clothing
workers who went on strike Tuesday
for an increase In wages and shorter
hours, returned to work today, set
tlements having been reached, with
some of the manufacturers, according
to officers of the Amalgamated Cloth
ing Workers of America. Union lead
ers said that prospects were bright for
an early adjustment of differences
with the other employes concerned.
Dies on Fast Train.
Peekskill, May , 24. D. A. Moulton,
New York manager for tne bims com
pany, a Pennsylvania concern, was
stricken with apoplexy while on the
Empire State Express today, and died.
His body- was taken from the train
to the undertaking establishment of
E. C. Ferris, in Croton. Moulton lived
ia.Exlara , -
$25 Fine For Misbranding Bottle.
New Haven. ' Conn- May 24. Ror
misbranding a bottle In which it had
been masked a product of a medicin
al character, the Athophorus company,
oi in ew .Haven, -was nnea fio oy juuge
Thomas, of the federal court, today.
David Lamar Surrenders. -
New York, May 24. David Lamar
today surrendred to the federal au
thorities and - was taken to the
Tombs prison to await removal to At
lanta penitentiary to serve his two
years' sentence for impersonating
QQEsresanian. . . .- .
The seventh annual convention of
the American Iron Steel and heavy
hardware association opened at Pitts
burgh with more than 30 delegates
present.
The Goodyear Rubber Co. has been
authorized to increase its preferred
capital stock from J 7,000,000 to $25,-
000,000, making its total capital $50.-
000,000.
Despite local damages to the mul
berry leaves by frost , the general
prospects for an increased production
of silk in Japan are reported to be excellent.
The eleventh annual convention on
weights and measures opened at
Washington. Adoption in the United
States of the metric system will be
discussed.
Bobby Hammond, driving an Em-
nira mt. arrived at the New York
Judge Gardiner Greene Sentenced John City Hall from San Francisco, having
Velandowski 12 to 15 Years. - I made the trip in S days, 11 hours and
52 minutes.
in the superior court here tonight! Gov. McCall reappointed Stephen
fm-.n Jnhn Vla.ndowskl of TerrwHie I O Meara police commissioner of Bos
ton. Tne position carries a salary or
$7,500 annually. The appointment is
for five years.
TWO SEPARATE INVESTIGATIONS
IN WIRE TAPPING OPERATIONS.
One by Legslative Committee Other
' by District .Attorney. J ...
"New "York.5" May? 24. Two separate
investigations were continued today
into the "wire tapping" operations of
the New York police. One was by the
legislative committee headed by State
Senator George F. Thompson and the
other by District Attorney Swann.
The committee - permitted - Mayor
Mltchel to take witness stand and
read into records conversations alleged
to have been heard over tapped wires
during the investigation of charitable
institutions, after warning him that it
considered the conversations "irrele
vant," and informing him that he must
assume all responsibility for any libel
charges which might result from them.
The district attorney conducted a
"John Doe" inquiry into the tatmine
of the teletl-.Tio lire of the law firm
of Seymour & Seymour. One of
witnesses wh.- au-peaivd before him
was Bartlett Smiih, an electrician, who
testified that he installed a telephonic
eavesdropping device in the lawyers'
offices at the instigation of the W. J.
tsurns detective agency. He testified
also that he saw William J. Burns
personally open a desk in Seymour &
Seymour's offices, take papers from H,
read them, and have a stenographer
make shorthand memoranda from
them. Smiih told Mr. Swann that his
father had sold a telephone "tap" to
Burns.
In his testimony before the Thomp
son committee Mayor Mitchel reiterat
ed his charge that the telephone' wires
of Roman Cathoiic clergymen and
others had been tapped during the
charities investigation because of the
discovery that there was a conspiracy
to discredit the city administration and
more particularly the department of
charities Headed by John A. Kingsbury,
who was indicted yesterday for his
part in the wire tapping activities.
Rev. William B. Farrell announced
tonight that he intended to institute a
civil action- against - Mayor Mitchel,
charging defamation of character.
BOUNTIFUL GIFTS
OF A CHESHIRE MAN.
guilty of manslaughter, and Judge
Gardiner Greene sentenced him to the
state prison from 12 to 15 years. - He
was accused of first degree murder m
causing the death of George Meslanka
during a saloon fight at Terryvllle.
The accused pleaded self defense. '
The jury retired at 2.45 o'clock this
afternoon and returned with its ver
dict at 6.30 o'clock. -
NAVAL SERVICE AVIATOR
v. KILLED NEAR PENSACOLA
Three Little Children Saw Father's
, Fatal Dive Into Gulf of Mexico.
Reports from Stockholm say there
has been a crop disaster in Russia,
frost destroying all winter crops of
the northern and middle parts of the
Russian empire.
The General Assembly of the Cum
berland Presbyterian church at Birm
ingham,- Ala, adopted a report urging
Its member churches to devote more
attention to revivals.
Pensacola," Fla, May 24. Lieut
James Vincent Rockwell, a civil en
gineer in the United States naval ser
vice, who was in training as an avia
tor here, was killed late today when
a navy aeroplane, whicn tie was pil
oting, dived 150 feet into -the Gulf.
The accident occurred just as Lieut
enant Rockwell - was ending a trial
flight. His three little children saw
him fall." Lieutenant Rockwell, who
was 3D years old, -was appointed to
the service from Iowa.
William Graves Sharp Convalescing
' Paris. May- 24, 8.40 p. m. William
Graves Sham, the . American ambas
sador. Is convalescing from aa attajck
of pneumonia. - He is still confined
to his room, but his- physiclas hope
that he will be able actively to- re
sume his duties in the course of a
fortnight. r '
John Redden, a merchant, was found
murdered in bed at his home at Ward
en, W Va. His body had been hacked
with, a hatchet, and the bet set afire
in an effort to bide the crime.
The sueoessof campaign to raise
$25,000 for an endowment fund was
announced at the annual meeting of
the Alliance of Unitarian and Other
Liberal Christian Women at Boston.
Walter . Lswandowski, arrested In
Brooklyn, confessed to the murder of
his mother, Mrs, Trance? Lewandow
ski. a servant emoloved at Coney Is
lano. ene naa reiusea nis aemana xor
money. . " -
" The Duke - of ' Connaught, a field
marshal in the British army, and per
sonal aide de camp to King George,
arrived at Rome from the ' French
front. He will visit the Austro-Ital
lan front. . - .
Hobart Williams Gives Property Val
ued at $4,500,000 to Chicago institu
tions. Chicago, May 24. A gift of a busi
ness building in Chicago's downtown
district valued at $2,500,000 has been
made to the University of Chicago by
Hobare Williams of dieshire. Conn., It
became known today. A few days ago
Mr. Williams announced a gift of $2,-
000,000 to ten Illinois educational and
charitable institutions
j-iie j"ver-y given we university ..
of Chicago is under lease for 9-9 years
at an annual rental of over $100,000,
ana out oi this sum Mr. ;wunams re
serves 0,000 a year during bis life.
The donor also gave property valued
at $200,000 to St. Luke's hospital and
property valued at $100,000 to the
Young Men's Christian association.
mi-. 'Williams formerly lived in Chi
cago.
EVELYN NESBIT THAW
MARRIES DANCING fARTNER
Was Divorced from Harry K. -Thaw
; Last .Month. .
New York, IMay &t. Evelyn aSTeaoit
Thaw, divorced by rry K. Thaw
last month,, and .Jack .Clifford, her
dancing partner, returned here tonight '
after a, hasty rip to Baltimore and
announced that -they fcad feeen, married
in Maryland. - .
Movements f Steamships.
3ergn, May :22 Arrived, istamer
Bergensf jord. New Tiprk.
Cadiz, (May , -24&rxd.ve4, jsteamejs
Ant-oniO Lopez, Nejsr y,prk- - '
New York, May .4. Arrived, team,
er iPatris, Piraeus.
KiliedV"-Pltortsd' Ball.
U City, Pa., May '.24. fames'. 5r
win, aged l-o, was pit oyer .the fceart;
by a pitched toil and :Iristantly Jellied
