NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. II. NO. 218
uetting
FINANCIAL EDI'TION
iJltitmr
NIGHT
EXTRA
Iravines filled
WITH DEAD ALONG
20-MILE MONT
fiO.000 Germans Lost in
Three ways' ngnung,
French Say
'SHELLS DIG GRAVES
Man's Inhumanity to Man
as Seen in Verdun Fight
Everjf man In a French force
penetrating Fort Dounumont was
wiped out in n Gcrmnn chnrgc.
Alcn nrc flghtlnK in dark, under
ground tunnels, using hand search
fkhts, knives and bombs.
Hundreds of French and Germans
have been burled alive in the wreck
ing of underground works by shcll-
Scores have gone Insane from the
lust of the horrible butchery. s
Surgeons amputating arms and
Ides and without anesthetics report
wounded French and Germans con
tinuing the struggle with knives
though unable to stand,
A French captain reported 7000
dead heaped along a 700-yard front.
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, MAY 25, 1!10.
CortHoitT, 1018, t ih PobUo Ltnoti Cmtrif.
PBICE OKE OmST
ft '$',' By CHARLES F. I3ERTELLI
$ij' PARIS, May 25.
SK h' Between Avocourt wood nnd Fort Douau
Jfk wont, northwest and nortlieaot of Verdun,
$i teroaa a front 20 miles wide,, thcro aro a
!' tntn ravines so choked with dead that
', (hatly barriers aro formed by corpses.
' Never beforo has there been fighting of
i inch ferocity as has been seen during tho
tut week upon tho shell-torn hill slopes,
where half a million German and French
!, soldiers were straining at each other's
t. throats like maniacs.
r During the direct. ntiaci8 ami counier
issaults of the past threo days and nights.
It Is estimated that ho Germans lost a full
corps, 40.000 men. In dead am) wounded,
particularly severe weie the German losses
around Fort Douaumont, which Is again in
German hands. With ir callous disregard
for human life that Is Incomprehensible, tho
German legions were sent forward In mass
formation, wave upon wave. Into tho cur
tain fire of tho Frencll artillery and .the
Inferno of machine gun fire.
,,Tho mighty artillery duel that rages night
i2jt, ana uay mcr wie vuliiu veiuun iiuiil h.im
Sf tr.de It Imposslblo to remove tho dead,
. - ,., .. !... , .1
RDQ PUinU UL illC LU1 faCQ IHlfU l.llll WUKIU
they fell In lighting a fortnight ago.
To.the west of tho Mouse, around Hill 501
and Dead Man's Hill, where tho fire of
hnrfdreds of German guns has been con
centrated tor many days, shells have some
times acted tho part of grao diggers, cov-
i 5 .f!,nB' tho corpse, wlth tons of earth blown
ISp-Vlilf by' their mighty' explosions. But too
tntn tho bursting steel, falling among tho
Winds of dead, tears to atoms the .corpses,
-ofllng one horror of battle whjch Is sqmc-
ltime' worse than aeatli Itself.
Between the lines soldiers helpless from
- wduhds have died amidst jtho fallen, the
JU4 Cross workers being unablo to leach
.them for tho artillery fire. That tho Ger
mans are willing to pay any price to tako
Verdun has become fully apparent, No
losfes are too high to vary the plan of tho
Kaiser's General Staff.
- With tho French It Is different. Dead
Mans Hill was given up to save tho troops
from, being smothered beneath tho rain of
projectiles which tho German gunners
hurled against tho eminence day and night.
General Nlvelle, rather than Incur the ex
treme losses which a prolonged defense of
the hill would have entailed, gave up the
position, but even yet tho Germans have
been unablo to organize a position on tho
ercst because of tho sustained lira of tho
French' artillery.
TEUTONS REGAIN DOUAUMONT
AND HAUDR0M0NT POSITIONS;
FRENCH QUIT DEAD. MAN'S HILL
German Troops Recapture Ground in
Fiercest Counter-Charge of Verdun
Battle 30,000 Die in and
About Ruins of Fort
Le Mort Homme Now "No Man's Land" Hill 304 Held
Jointly Kaiser's Hosts Prepare Drive on Chat
tancourt French sMake Advance Near- x
Cumieres Village
Recapture of Fort Dounumont by the Germans nnd the evacuation of the
Dead plan's Hill position by the French are the two outstanding features in
today's dispatches from the Verdun front, where the greatest battle In the history
of the world is being fought. The Berlin War Office also reports the capture
of trenches south and southwest of Dounumont nnd the recapture of the Hnudro
mont quarries.
At least 500,000 men nrc at each other's throats with a ferocity that exceeds
that of any battle yet recorded. Dozens of ravines along a front 20 miles wide
are filled with dead nnd it is estimated that 30,000 men died fighting in the dark,
underground passages and about the ruins of Fort Douaumont.
The Germans assert that tho French have lost nenrly a whole army corps
in the attempt to hold Dead Man's Hill, which although abandoned by tho
French, is in reality "No Man's Land," becnu3c of the fierce artillery fire
sweeping over it from the guns of both armies. Tho French maintain that the
Germans have lost at least 40,000 men in the fighting of the last 72 hours. '
While the Paris War Office asserts that French troops have .recaptured
trenches on the outskirts of Cumieres, which would expose the Germans to a
flank attack should they endeavor to debouch for a further advance from that
point, the Berlin statement asserts that west of the Mouse the French are steadily
being driven back and that the Germans are preparing for a terrific drive upon
Chattancourt nnd Fort Bourrus.
Hill 304, according to Berlin, is being held jointly by both sides.
According to Paris, the fighting abated last night as a result of sheer ex
haustion of both armies, but from German reports it seems that the Kaiser's
high command is determined to take Verdun at all costs. The recklessness of
the Germans in their attacks is appalling.
MIGHTY TRENTIN0
BATTLE NEARING
CRITICAL PHASE
Rome Announces Officially
Temporary Slackening of
Austrian Offensive
SITUATION NOT CLEAR
After 48-IIour Bombardment
Italian Alpines Still Defend
Important Mountain Pass
Fists Fly on Capital Lawn
IUTON ROUGE, La., May 35. Oswald
ilc.S'eese. Adjutant General of Louisiana,
dd A, I). Stewart, a Now Orleans hotel
man and aspirant to the Adjutant General's
office, settled a peisonal quarrel with their
fists yesterday afternoon. Tho fight occurred
on the Capitol lawn, beforo an audience of
legislators. A Capitol employe acted as ref
eree. Each of the principals got a black eye
nd cuts and bruises. Both were summoned
to appear In court today,
METHODISTS MAINTAIN
: BAN.0N AMUSEMENTS
FRENCH CLADI ADVANCE
NEAR CUMIERES VILliAflE
PARIS, May 25.
French troops advanced last night along
tho west bank of tho Meuse, Jusl cast of
Cumieres Tillage, In grenado fighting, the
War Office announced this afternoon.
Tho acrnuins. by a strong attack, cap
tured a French trencfi north of Haudromont
ciuarrles on tho east bank.
TlKugh"'vl6Ient artillery" duels' continued
thioughout the night, there wcro no Im
portant, Infantry struggles cither around
Fort Douaumont or on the Dead Man's
Hill, front west of tho river.
Tho French gain was made In a small
wood between tho river Und the village of
Cumieres. Though the advance was Hllght.
tho positions won by the Frehch expose tho
Germans to n (lanklng attack If they at
tempt to push southward fiom Cumieres.
Tho houthein exits from Cumieres are un
der firo of French artillery and little fear is
felt hero over the possibility of an advance
from this quarter.
General Nlvello made no attempt to ic
capture of Fort Douaumont ruins t'rom
tho Germans during tllo night. Apparent
ly, through sheer exhaustion, both sides
hne almost - completely halted Infantry
operation") around tho fort.
Virtually all French military critics
agreed today that this week's lighting at
Verdun has been tho bloodiest In history.
Continued on l'me Tour, Column Four
GEO AX "NUT CRACKER"
CLOSING ON VERDUN
HKRMS, May 25.
Tho glnnt German "nut cracker" Is clo!
Ipg In upon Verdun In the bloodiest lighting
In all history;
The right Jaw has advanced on n front
of three miles In tho Inst 72 hours of tho
mad struggla northwest of th; fortress.
The French hae evacuated the. entire
Dead Man's Hill jiosltlpji, -northwest of
Verdun, after sacrificing more' than a whole
array corps In vain cIToits to hold it The
Germans are again In pqsscssloh of Fort
Dounumont.
In addition the Germans have captured
trenches south and southwest of Fort
Douaumont, lecaptuicd the Haudromont
quanlcs nnd taken 850 prisoners and 14
machine guns.
Hill 301, cornerstone of the French outer
defense west of the Meuse. Is now held
Jointly by Germans and French. Further
slight advances for tho Germans In the
tavlnes on cither side will forco Its sur
render to the right wing of tho German
army that occupied Cumieres village Tues
day night.
Tho left Jaw of Crown Prince's great
fighting machine, bent back slightly under
the most terrific blow struck by the French
since the Verdun struggle began, has re
conquered entirely positions tempotarliy
surrendered to tho French. It Is estimated
here that 30,000 men died fighting In dark
underground caverns and about the ruins of
QUICK NEWS
SENATE COMMITTEE TOEHOLD HEARINGS ON SHIP BILL
WASHINGTON, May 25. The Senate Commerce Committee to.
day appointed a subcommittee consisting of Senators Simmons of
Noifh Carolina, Fletcher of Florida, Bankheatl of Alabama, Jones ol
Washington and Llppltt of Rhode Island, to hold hearings on tho
$00,000,000 ship purchase bill passed by the House. Senator Slmmoni
said ho had no Intention of calling witnesses but would give full op
portunity for any one who wished to be heard ou the bill.
YEGGMEN GET $7000 IN JEWELS FROM CHICAGO SAFE
CHICAGO, May 25. Yeggnien blew the safe of the Saudack
Jewelry Company, In South Halsted street, today and took dlamondc.
and other jewels valued at $7000.
WOODBINE RACING RESULTS
rirst race, selling, 3-ycar-olds and up, 0 furlongs BcnCel, 113,
Dlslunnn, $01.20, $18.00 and $0.00, won; Garnet, 100, Parrlngtou,
$10.00 and ?0, second; Lady London, 111, Mott, $2.70, third. Time,
1:14. Vldet, Lady Mexican, Volant, Pampinea, Lost Fortune, Cin
cinnati, Gordon and Audrey Austin also ran.
BELMONT RACING RESULTS
First race selling, 3-year-olds and up, $500 added, 6 furlongs
Tea Caddy, 100, Huyucs, 7 to 5, 2 to 5 and out, won; True As Steel,
118, Kcogh, 12 to 5, 7 to 10 and 1 to 4, second; Yaukce Notions, 100,
Warchcr, 4 to 1, 7 to' 5 and 1 to 2, third. Time, 1:15.
Continued on Van Four. Column Three
h Caftls, Dance and Theatre Again
II' Forbidflnn hv flnnforniinn W
k nA ;;;;:; '
ii uiiijvLiby
re- !
-- . oi-iiwui), r.-, jr., may so.
, JhQ Methodist General Conference voted,
to 360, this afternoon to retain the rule
ptNt Methodists must not play cards, dance
5 or (i.i.j .t t.
my, ujcuiren. -ine committee report
'a adopted without debate.
Three sessions a day of the conference
Ut be held until the close early next week.
Today a report was adopted reorganlrlne
the Ifoma SiiB3lon and Church Extension
' sird. Later It was expected that the elec
tion of editors would begin, following which
tl) secretaries of the church boards wquld
k& chosen
THEWRATTTF.R
W -iWr' Ma"eT Daw, That Is all It h.
li ' rii. i!n Bnythln? you please. The Qec
C r,?8.bav! ta!5e" nat maltreated Fou
w t tSJSX ABa,r the "Us'"a chasing
W, lift ,; """ V JMIMIUU4 Ol CIOCK1
P - ana . (flnB monotonously, the tide ebbs
taortinr uVal' ,ne Athletics lost once
SS re;,'h Brumbaugh-Penrpse war Is shift
m sun l naw "Impossible" in Europe,
un came un as usual-and It's a fair
1 lm&rktitilpJa an(i vicinity Fair
U-immt and Fridau: warmer toninht-
K ? Windi vl0StlV southwest.
SENATE POLL INDICATES
CERTAIN CONFIRMATION
OF BRANDEIS AS JUSTICE
Unanimous Indorsement by Dem
ocrats on Judiciary Commit
tee Shows Clear
- Sailing
MAY GET SOME G.O.P. VOTES
WASHINGTON, May 25. The appoint
ment of Louis P. Hrandela to the United
State Supreme Court will be confirmed. A
carefully-taken poll of the Senate, following
the unanimous Indorsement of Brandeis by
the -Democratic members of the Judiciary
Committee, makes possible this statement
without qualification, Brandeis will hae a
margin of about a dozen votes In his favor.
The doubts and fears of Brandeis' friends
have been entirely swept away by the com
mltteo's action. If there had been a s Ing le
Pe nocratlo defection In the committee t
fnlBht have furnished the basis for an or
EanlVed revolt on the Senate floor. Canvas?
by Democratic leaders, they say. has shown,
however, that not piore than half a dozen
Democrots would vote .with the Repub.
llcans and that at least four Kepublfcans
would ote with the Democrats.
Democrats whose votes were reported in
doubt were. BrWr. UrwooU. Bank-
Vardaman. wiurnu, ju.... ,,......
nnd Martin. On the other hand
PRETTY GIRL TRAPPED
IN LONELY SHORE SPOT
HELD UP AND ATTACKED
Florence Seltz, of Philadelphia,
Taking Jitney Ride, Left
Stranded by Driver as
Assailant Appears
WARNS OTHER GIRLS
head,
Smith
te OST AHD FPIWD
riir?RRnERnlwl Bwer turns VooSie 13
JsItT f r4sB, SH4 N Ulh ti. Tioga
Brandeis' supporters counted on gaining the
votes of Senators Clapp, La Follette I'oln
deiter and Norrls from the Republican
side,
senator Kenyon, of Iowa, will renew h s
effort Immediately a force action on s
motion to abolish the executive session In
older that the Brandeis fight may be con
ducted in, the open.
FALL KILLS AGED WOMAN
Mrs. Emma Miller, 93 Years Old, Dies
From Injury
a fall from a rocking chair In her bed
room on May caused the death of Jrs.
Snma Mil er. 93 years old, of 1953 North
!Htree Funeral pervlces will bs held
t 8 o'clock tomorrow ernoon at the
Bethany Lutheran cWch, with Rev. J.
P Ilartman. the pastor, official ngr Burial
will I ba In Mount Vernon Cemetery
Mrs. Miller was the widow pf William
Miller a gas meter manufacturer, who died
fl years asa She Is survived by one
J'wnii.,5 Miller, and two daughters.
Mrs. limma Whitman and Wtss Virginia
rt? U an uaWwr to h discipline Ue-
Pretty, blue-eyed Florence Seltz, a Phila
delphia, girl, victim of an attack at the
hands of a supposed highwayman on a
jitney ride to Longport. told a story today
of her experience which has startled
Atlantic City. Her recital, she hopes, will
sere as a warning to qther girls In her
own position, for Miss Seltz, before rolnc
to Atlantic Cty, was a saleswoman in the
Frank antLSeder store at 11th and Market
streets and lived at 1417 North 13th Btreet.
Like other Philadelphia girls, to whom
sh.e hopes the lesson of her ordeal will prove
profitable. Miss Seltz went to Atlantic City
to work for the summer In the pure salt air,
away from the stuffy city shops. The a,
quel she told n detail today at the Monti
cello Hotel, where she is employed.
In this case Is an unidentified Jitney
driver who has disappeared, and a 19-j ear
old giant, Horace Jeree. whose home Js In
31st street, Longport. Jeree, who was ar
rested late last night. Is now held without
ball In the Atlantic City Jail, pending his
arraignment on charge of statutory offense
and impersonating an officer.
After a hard 'day's work in the hotel.
Miss Seltz started home on Sunday night.
She was tired, and hot and wanted to eat
away from the rattle of the dishes. But
she could not go alone. She knew that
would not be safe.
So she hailed a jitney. She did not at
tempt any Joy-rldlng. She had too much
sense for that. But she thought she woqld
be perfectly safe In a public conveyance.
"There was no ona else In the jitney,"
Bhe Bald. "The driver asked me to sit on
O.A frnnt ..at nn T rllri lie. im.an m .
....... e did not say a thing out on
iu! way i wua geiim. cooiea on; and
feeling One, when suddenly we had tire
trouble out near Margate City.
"The driver got out of the machine to
Rx the tire," she added. "No, J do not
know his name. Naturally. X would not
aa I was not interested. I was paying for
my ride, and did not care who was at the
wheel.
"While he was Axing the tire, from out
of the bushes there. Jumped a tall man."
and she shuddered a little, even as she
referred to the harrowing experience
through which she nad been. "This roan
eajne tip. to lh Jltneyroan and said 'I am
an solflcer of the law. Thts lady u not
GENERAL KOEVESS
Commander of tho Austrian army
now,,iVding Italian soil.
ROMK, May 23.
Tho battld between the Itallnn.s and Aus-
tro-llunpnilana on tho Trentlno front Is
draw Ins Into Iti critical plm.se, says a dis
patch from Mlah. It will be Hevernl days
before tho situation nt Lake Cnrcta and tho
Vnl Sugnii.i becomes absolutely clear. In
tho menntimo tho buttle ragca furiously
with Hip !tnt'i- copying tho tnctlcs of the
French at Verdun."
Italian Alpuie troops defended Costonnr
slero for three days, repulsing attack after
attack n.ich time the Auntrl.inn withdrew
with decimated ranks Tho defense wns
prolonged until it new line of defense was
prepared. The battle for tho possession of
Monte Magglo was nn epic. After a bom
bardment of 48 hours tho Austrlnns nd
vqneed and found tho Itnllans still defend
Ins their recoered trenches. The Austilans
were compelled to climb n steep slope, nnd
they were met half way by tho Italians,
who engaged them In desperate hand-to-hand
fighting In order to delay tho fall of
tho position which guarded tho Rarcola
pas'"
The crest was lost and retaken twice.
Utood dyed tho snow to crimson. When
tho Italians were Anally compelled to give
up tho position, a fresh battalion of Al
pines scaled and occupied tho mountain
dominating Monte Naggin. thus preventing
tho occupation of Qarcola Pass.
Meantime the Austrian offensive ngalnst
the Italians has temporarily diminished In
Intensity, the War Ofllco stated today. Tho
official communique, says:
'The Intensity of the Austilan offensive
has temporarily diminished. The Italians
have been obliged to abandon n few ad
vanced trenches for strategic reasons. Only
a small tract has been glvon up nnd now
the main defensive line runs through Sette
Communl north of Aslagn and Arslero.
Tho withdrawal was effected because of tho
heavy artillery fire of the enemy. The
Austrian attacks have been carried out
wth great violence, but the command lb
supremely, confident that the hostile onrush
will be stemmed."
26 HKAVV GUN I1ATTERIES.
Two Austrian aeroplanes of a squadron
that attempted to raid Venice, Vlcenza and
Verona Monday were shot down. It was
learned today. One fell In the Tagliamento
River and the other In the marshes neat
Porto Gruaro.
The Austrian offensive along the Italian
front, which begrfn 10 days ago, Is assuming
more nnd more the character of the Ger
man offensive at Verdun.
After having occupied the advanced po
sitions, from which the Italians withdrew.
ho Austrlnns are now strengthening and
organizing themselves there. They have
concentrated additional artillery under com
maud of General KoeeH and have been
attempting, but without success, to cut the
Italians rear communications for supplies.
The advance of the Austrlans has been ren
dered more difficult by the destruction of
bridges and roads.
Italian officers estimate that between the
Adlge and Brenta Hive r the Austrlans
have placed 38 batteries of guns of 305
calibre, aside from many other batteries of
smaller guns, arid have brought from the
CJallclan and Balkan fronts fresh troops to
the number of 18 divisions, or 360.000 men.
Arslero Is one of the towns that has suf
fered most Beerely from the bombardment.
HOUSE PASSES OREGON-CALIFORNIA LAND BILL
WASHINGTON, May 115. The House today passed tho Oregon-California land
Krone bill by n ote of 180 to G. Tho measure revests In the Government title to nil
of tho1 unsold part of the original grant of land to -the Oregon und California Rail
load, of which the Southern Pacific Is successor. Hy the bill the railroad will bo
paid for tho acreage It has not disposed of nt J2.50 an acre, and later the land will
bo thrpwn open to homestead entry.
STUDENTS OF FIVE SCHOOLS OFF TO SEE WILSON
Two juinilrcd and fifty high school students left Urond Street Station thls-morn-ing
for Washington. The schools represented were Central High, Palmyra High,
Jiordcntown High, Lower Merlon High and the John Wnnnmaker Collegiate Insti
tute. Tomorrow they will seo Congress In session nnd visit Washington's homo at
Jit. Vetnon. Saturday morning the students have nn engagement with President
Wilson and Vice President Mm shall at the White House. They will return Saturday.
GERMANS MINING ENTRANCE TO THE BALTIC
COPENHAGEN, May 23. .Mariners report that tho Germans aro laying n mlno
field between the Danish Island of Uornholm and tho Swedish coast with the evident
purpose of closing tho entranci to tho Baltic.
Mclaughlin leads sobel by 3468 votes
neturns from all but 502 of the 6890 election districts In tho State show that
Joseph McLaughlin, of Philadelphia leads Isador Sobel, of Eile, by 3468 votes for
tho fourth nomination for Cungesman-at-Lai ge on the Republican ticket. Tho
let urns give .McLaughlin 154,8."ij and Sobel, 151,387.
HARDEN PROPOSES THAT WORLD LIMIT ARMAMENT
BERLIN, May 25. Maximilian Harden, writing In Die Zukunft, proposes that
for the benefit of American op'n.'on and tho promotion of peace talk, Germany shall
profess a desire for the llmltatloi of armaments. He says: "Competition in arma
ments will ba Impossible after this war. The Idea that we could attempt such com
petition terrifies even friendly neutrals out-of their desire for a Gorman victory.
Point to a goal for which Impartial humanity can Joyfully yearn. Free yourselves
from tho mad idea that commerc.al covetousness Is everywhere governing tho wills
of men. Ideas are the only conqueiots whoso work lasts."
DREYFUS' SON HONORED FOR BRAVERY AT VERDUN
PARIS, May 25. Pierre T)'-eyi'us son of Commandant Alfted Dreyfus of tho
famous "DreyfU3 Affair," who lias been serving on tho Verdun front ns second
lieutenant In the artillery, has Jubt been cited In the orders of the day for having
"particularly distinguished hlmselt during the violent engagements of February 26,
27 and 2S" in tho Battle of Voului..
GERMANY TO FREE AMERICAN WOMAN "SPY"
BERLIN, May 25. Vhe American Ambassador, Jnmea W. Gerard, has been In
formed that an American woman. Miss Mary Sllllman, a teacher in the American
school for girls at Constantinople, who was anested on suspicion of espionage at
Warnemunde, Germany, a month ago, while on her way to the United States, will
bo released at an early date. Miss SUllman's arrest, it Is said, was duo to the dis
covery In her trunk, when It was ixamlned at the frontier, of the draft of a coda
for the transmission of meatuses, Miss Sllllman explains that this probably was
lileced In lier trunk by a revpnncful pupil of the school,
AMBASSADOR SHARP RECOVERING FROM PNEUMONIA
PARIS, May 25. American Ambassador Sharp Is convalescing after an attaclt
of pneumonia. He Is still conftifd to his room, but his physicians hope he will be
able to actively resume his duties li; a fortnight.
WEATHER UUUEAU SAVES
$00,000,000 TO SHIPPERS
Bliss Telia Jovians Reports Reduce An
, nual Loss
The Weather Bureau U worth f60.0Q0.O0O
a year to shippers throughout the United
States, according to Forecaster George S
Bliss, In an address at the weekly luncheon
of the Jovian .Electrical League at the
Hotel Adelpnia. today Mr. Bliss declared
that Philadelphia shippers saved a great
deal of that amount through, the informa
tion supplied to them by the local bureau
Before the bureau had been established,
said Mr BUsa. Philadelphia shippers calcu
lated on a is per cent loss on shipments
because of jstaimi. Now the loatj te estl
mU4 at only $ per cent. Mr Blbjn U-
, TWO U. OF P, STUDENTS SCARLET FEVER PATIENTS
Two pupils of the University of Pennsylvania, llvlrjg at the Sigma Nu Fraternity
house, 3312 Walnut btreet, haya bnen taken to the Municipal Hospital suffering from
scarlet fever. They are Charles V. Austin, bf Catsklll, N, Y.'. and Julius Van Raalto.
pf St. Louts. Both are students lnthe Wharton School.
LLOYMEORGE
NOW NAMED TO
PACIFY IRELAND
Former Exchequer Chief
and Present Munitions
Minister Accepts
Commission
ARMS PROBLEM SETTLED
mi ' f n
WILL TACKLE IRISH PROBLEM
The British Cabinet has unanim
ously voted to place the settlement
of tho Irish difficulties in Lloyd
, Gcorgc'3 -hands.
LONDON, May 25. David Lloyd-George,
Minister of Munitions, has been given full
charge of the Irish situation anw power to
pacify tho Island, Premier Aaciullh an
nounced In Commons this nfternoon.
Tho Premier announced that a provisional
government .would Ije established for In
land. "The Government is more than anxious
to do everything possible to facilitate an.
agreement between the factions in Irelahd,"
Mr. Asqulth declared.
Lloyd-Gcorgo was the unanimous choice
of the Cabinet, the Prime Minister an
nounccd. He will devote his time and
powers in nn effort to effect a settlement
between the confllc'lng elements In Ire
land. The Prime Minister appealed to all sec
tions of the House to refrain from discuss
ing the Irish question while Lloyd-George
conducts negotiations. John Redmond, re
plying for tho Irish party, bald if the plan
failed tho fault would not Ho with his
party.
Lloyd-George's selection was a surprise
to Commons. In the lobbies of the House
of Commons It was pointed out that the
Continued on I'axe Hlx, Column One
LLOYDS QUOTE
ODDS STRONGLY
AGAINST PEACE
Betting on End of War Re
sponds to Grey's Declara
tion Truce Talk Is Idle
3 TO 1 FROM EVEN MONEY
APPOINTED PROTHONOTARY OF MONTGOMERY COUNTY .
Harvey S. Fredeilck has leer, appointed prothonotary of Montgomery County
ty Governor Brumbaugh to succeed, Sylvester B. Drake, who recently resigned.
Mr. Frederick Is a member of tne Republican County Committee, is 40 years old
ant1 Is a shoo merchant at Souderton, Pa.
HARVARD CLASS DEDICATES ALhUM TO PHILADELPHIAN
The 1916 class of Ha,rvaid University has dedicated Its class album ta Mrs.
Eleanor Elklns Wldener Rica who donated a library to the university In memory
of her son, Harry Elklns Wldener, who lost his life on the Tltanio.
GERMANS GAIN TRENCH SOUTHEAST OF RIGA
BERLIN. Way 25. An army neadquarters statement Issued last night says:
'In the vicinity of Pulkarn, sojthtait of Riga, we drove the Russians out ,tt a trench
situate between the Russian ll.ies vnd our own. Sixty-eight prisoners felj into our
hands."
---' -. '
FRENCH PLANNING RECONSTRUCTION OF TOWNS
PARIS. May 25. President Polncare has inaugurated an exposition in the
Tulterjes; Gardens, at which, irevhod? of reconstructing- the devastated villages of
franco aro being demonstrated, The Urge number nt exhibitors include many
Americans, Types, of reconstructed houses, with, modern sanitary equipment, and,
pmrwMwbj for laving out tftlen d towns are on exhibition.
LONDON', May 25, Responding? Instantly
to Sir Edward Grey's declaration that peace
talk is idle until Germany changes her at
titude. Lloyd's today made a radical shift
in rates of Insurance against the war end
ing before December 31.
A few days ago Lloyd's offered even
money that the war would not end this year.
Today the Insurance brokers were willing
to wager 3 to 1 that the war would not
end In 1918,
Other odda posted by Lloyd's today were
Seven to three that the war would nqt
end before April 1. 1917.
Twenty to one that the war will end be
foro 1919.
Four to one that. Sweden will not join
Germany within six months.
Two to one that Germany and United
States will not bo at war this month.
The odds quoted pn the possibilities of
a German-American clash reflect the etron
feeling In English circles that a. German
submarine commander, by attacking a pas
senger liner without warning and causing
loss of lives, will upset the settlement
rea.ol.ed by President Yfiuwh and embroil
the two nations In war-
The nftwopapers today generally applauded
Sir Edward Orey answer in Commons
yesterday to the German Chancellor's, latest
peace talk. The consensus, of opinion amon?
Londoners la that the Foreign SBecretajw
has killed oil hope In Germany itt a. ftae
oii Germany's terms and at the samu !bj
has served notice on Betlunann-lfullwe
that'he must ma!; tadlcal xhange in lild
peace proersyn if he hopes lot an, early
endlns of the war. No uther pettsd. la
Sir Edward's pptt wop such applause
his statement that the Allies are not bttiUii
and are not going tq be beaten.
"There U not a phrase or word, In sir
Edward Grey'8 speech wWch, encourage h
hope of an early mam," m& the paUy
Chronicle today "He 4fijmtiisd t tiw mA
Mt any .Am of ihU cowitr'' am(m$
gparattly f ro;n htr allwa. iia tuauu i
rnllf?l w Vr?
If
tL la- tl-.
