(
1
,'
VOL, 34 Established 1832.
GREENVILLE, OHIO
.THURSDAY, MAY 25,1916
No47.
LLFi o OTTlFT A ,
L 1M3UI
Political Gossip trom i wnicn is discouraging to the Palestine.
r . . , .. ... I
Washington. . "eroocrais, xor tney realize mat The Wy of Mis3 Carrie Mike
.. " . thev won through RenuhTiMTi rti.Q-1 n j. . , . ...
Washington. May 24. (Special " " r oc" wno Qiea m Greenville, was
Corres'pondence.) TheDemncra- sension m " 1912 an.tand little brought here for burial on last
: tic policy of postponing embar- chancein1916 against a solid Saturday afternoon. Among
rassing problems is illustrated in
the failure to pass any kind of
revenue legislation up to the pre
sent time, notwithstanding the
depleted condition of the treasu
ry and the certainty
increase expenditures--will -&e
an incident of legislation enacted
at the present session. "After
I party.
XXX
If reports are true, there will
be some fur flying around the
-
capitol when the President tries
those who attended the burial
were Mrs: Dora Klinger of In
dianapolis, Silas -Hardin and
wife of Redkey, fnd.; Miss Merle
Say lor of Richmond, Ind., and
to put over his shipping bill. Al-1 v , .
that a large J .. .. 01lver Se8ter of Eaton. 0
reauy mere tire rumors oi nosui
the opponents in his party on
this proposition are makincr no
the convention" is the word that . - .-.,. .,.
bones of saying that this present
has now'gone out in answer to I q admini8tration
...i-Inr, na fn t-Tna fima TIrVlon I
Mucat,u" " will meet the same fate as the
revenue measures will be taken
Hart1 ntioela an1 ..J
ity in the Democratic camp and John WenrJck find wife attended
the commencement play at oy-
ington last Thursday night.
Gettysburg.
TheDunker Br thren held their
annual love feast meeting at the
last Saturday
be sacrament
Oakland church
and yesterday.
of the Lord's Swper was cele
brated on Satrapy night. A
large attendance fas present on
both days. The rorker Breth
i
ren held a like mieting
home of Abraham (Kniesley yes
teiday, at which
racketing on the slreets, which is Turkeys are Valuable
nightly indulged with lavishness iHA T.in frw. T?omr,
to the destruction of decorum
and the peace and comfort of
quiet loving people. It is be
lieved these boys know better
than to indulge their propensi
ties for noise, but if they do not,
then their parents are largely at
at the fault for not teaching them bet
ter. Boys, your conduct will go
BIG PRIMARIES
GOME IN AUGUST
k Candidates.-
he sacrament very far in determining whether
L . I
of the Lord's Supper was duly there will be a curfew ordinance r- - - . .
j vjiven free range on the average
A more profitable side line than
turkeys for the Ohio farmer can
haidlv be found f(.r trinsa oir.n.
ated on grain or stock farms, ac-
Ohio Voters Will CH:ss3 Hi
cording to F. S. Jacoby, professor
of poultry husbandry at the Ohio
State University. "Improper
feeding, combined with close con
finement has been the cause of
many failures in turkey raising.
KONE NAMED BY
celebrated,
In consequence o
up. The Democrats realize that
the real storm will break over
their heads when they begin to
pass the bills that impose addi
tional taxes, and they are put-
Philippine bill, if he is depend
ing on Democratic votes to put! it
over,
XXX
A Democratic member of the
Palestine furnished three pu tions' our M- E- Sunday schoul
pils in the graduation exercises I nad an attendance df only 80 per-
last Saturday ihlght. -They weresons yesterday.
Misses Leah Jefferis and Louise Another sudden d tath occurred
were twentyone in all and they I Saturday evening aj
presented a splendid -appeararce on the old Spidel farm. Mrs.
upon the stage." Misses Leah and I Wysong, who was
House, disgusted with the wav
tin? off the unpleasant task aS I it.; . . I
i mines are movincr ninnc ravs
late as possible in the hope that that Conres is not Ilent selection and clear, deliber- time she was ready
... .... ... .1 " " I . . . . I I ! .1 , 1 I
something will happen to divert time fa absolutely wastj ate speaking. Miss Olga Arma ped dead, without warning that uver- cieanse ine system ana pur- fcbe brood .g
other attrac-
enacted or not.
May 22,
XOB
Keep Tour Skin Clear and
Healthy.
farm the poults can generally j
pick up their own living. One
light feed per day for the pur
pose of inducing them to come in
at night is sufficient" Turkey!
eggs should always be hatched
There is cnly one way to have
Hardingand Herman Ross. There south from here abcbt-four miles a clear heaIthy complexion and faj a turkey hgn
their home tttat 13 t0 te bowels active CQnfined fcQ g
and regular. Dr. King's New
poults can run in and out for a
krranging to will make your com- f .
Louise were noticeable for excel- visit our village arid about the PIexion nealtnv and clPar move and clabbered cheese is
crumbs
Voter of All Parties Urged to Get
Back of Clean, Capabie Men Wh
Can Not Be Controlled by the Brew
erlea The Candidate Who Is Dom
inated by Big Interests Makes '
Poor Public Servant
Columbus, O. (Special.) The ec-
end Tuesday in August will be gen
eial primary day In Ohio. At thi
primary the political parties will
rcminate all candidates lor office
from governor and United States sen
ator down to the smallest office It
the county. There will not be a con
vention of any kind for the selection
of any candidates. The voters theii
tolves will choose all candidates.
Party committeemen will also be
selected at the Auguct primaries. Pe
titions of all-candidates will be filed
A gooa at least 60 days prior to the date of
. . j thebowpl's o-pnflv stimulate thp " ,eBSl oays pnor lo tne aate r
:o start drop- tne Dowels uy, stimulate the feed for tfae firsfc the prlmary electlon Each petition
public attention or give them
some plausble explanation for
the levying of direct taxes on the
American people instead of tax
ing the products of the foreigner,
as was done under Republican
administrations.
Jones gave a short address in her I the grim messenger was near at
very telling manner, and "Our hand. ' No telling when life may
Own" Quartette, composed of take its flight from this earthly
Misses Louvera Stover, Eunice tenement toother spheres be-
1
A prominent. Republican from and LtenorenWftcox, and Helen yond.
I rti t ..... I
West Virginia, who visited the P UC ' 'toeautlfuIly for The infant child of E. Flory
Capitol since the recent congrek- the audience. Miss Lorena Woods and wife was given interment in
time. "Why, " he said, "we are
not even doing as much as 'mark-
i
mg time.' '' " !
XXX
ify the blood. A splendid spring
medicine. 25c at your druggist.
-Adv
Children Cry
FOR FLETCHER'S
CASTORI A
XXX
Coal Paper.
The problem of supplying the
soldierc of Italy with fuel while
sional election in the second dis- as pianist made the music com- the cemetery here yesterday af- thev ae battling up in the moun-
Last week, President Wilson's trict said: "We shall elect a soltd I p ' e admission was free j ternoon. Rev. Mohler of the tains wholly bare of wood, is be-
week-end trip on the presidential Republican delegation to Con- J and tJiere was a laS& audience j Dunker Brethren church officiat- inS met by patriotic girls and boys
yacht Mayflower extended from gress from our state. What hap-1 present Wmch should have been ed and did what he could to con- at home, The new fuel, in the
Friday until Tuesday instead of pened the other day is a f oreruk- 3Ust'a8 attef ,ve as if the seats sole the bereaved parents in the preparation of which thousands
Friday until Monday. . This, was nerjf what i eomiriff. We shall nad beeimold. i iTbere is a state i03S 0f their only chHdi; It "was .of children are -Concerned, is call-
taken as an intimation that both also elect a Republican Unitd Iaw repA Yittg a11 Iadies to remove I aged six days at the time of its ed "coal paper," though "paper
their hats - at "public entertain
ments, and yet Ihere were at I
least a score who obstructed the
view by keeping-them on. Per
haps a sign should -be placed in
front so that all might know.
May 22. From Palebtim e .
Rheumatic Fain Stopped.
foreign and ' domestic problems Staies Senator and our state tick
require less cf the President's at- et. West Virginia Republicans
tention than formerly. ' Theusu- are united and they are for prjp
al week-end trip extends from cress. t.mtainn and nmonf i
I " ' ' H.. JA VkJIV-A i iJf
Washington down the Potomac
I
and Chesapeake Bay to Fortress Avoid Spring Colds, j
Monroe and Norfolk. 1 Sudden changes, high windp,
xxx shifting seasons cause colds aijd
One of the encouraging signs mvpe, and these spring colds aye
- for Republicans this year is the annyinc and dangerous and ae
small - number of contests that ,ikely turn inco a chronic surji-
will be presented before the Na- mer C0u8h- In SQch cases take
finnnl pnmmittee at the Chicago atreatment of Dri King's New
convention. Four vears aeo. Discovery, a pleasant Laxative lates circuhtk)n to the painful
Hpvpral hiinrprl npaf s were con- I ar Syrup.
tested. This year thtre will be checks the cold and helps brea the 80re?ots- In a' short time
onlv 44 claimed bv rival deWa- UP an attack of grippe. It's al
- mf " I . i ' . P 1' 1 1 i 1
sensation oi comiorc ana warmtn.
death.
This will be our last utterance
before Decoration Day and all we
are now able to fay is that the
usual decoration services will be
held when the dai arrives. The
arrangements are.
but not perfected,
m progress,
but no one
The drawing of muscles, the neea aespair. it win oe wen ior
I - A. . i. 1 J? it,
soreness, stiffness sinH no-nniVino. every person w get reauy ivi
pain of Rheumatism quickly yield
to Sloan's Lmiment. It stimu-
occasion and when the day ar
rives take the fast train for this
coal" would do as well. -
You know that paper can be
compressed to such a solidity that
car w-heels have been made from
it. Such a consistency of mater
ial should burn like coal, and,
though information is lacking at
to the specific quality of the" e
mergency "coal," the compres
sion is sufficient to render it ex
cellent slow-burning fuel.
Paper Bags for Breast
works.
Owing to the limited supply of
cotton in Germany, the sand bags
used in constructing breastworks
are now being made of a spec
ially prepared papr. Experience
has proven that these new paper
bags are much superior to cotton
bags for durability and cost less.
After cotton bags have been in
use for some time they wear out
from exposure and must be re
placed. The cotton bags are now
being replaced by paper bags.
These new bags have been scien
tifically prepared, are water
proof and may be used over and
over again, being practically in
destructible. Millions of these
bags are being used in place of
II 1
tne cotton ones, wnicn means
Hons and rhe-dasiiPS are nnrelv ready prepared, no mixing or
local, involtdng no questions that fussin- ask your druggi4aHer's P"'1 hf 6 had won
. ... for a KamIa i.nf..nr.JKi. mL aenui relief since l used your
wnrarousej"antagonismsrin;-ne " ' I T . . , ,. ,
.. ni"svpr TtA a A Liniment on my knee. To think
committee or m tne convention. i
1 ,., . , over40 vr .a one application gave me relief,
JVwirors. a rrn flip snl f irf flip over w years. AQV I
- j-.B" , "f"- -" I . CI Tl li i ill
. i ... - i joorry i naven t space to ten you
Body Salts. . the history. Thanking you for
''DoYousalways have a tireil what your remedy has done for
feeling about' this. time of year? line." James S. Ferguson, Phil
Doyoumve for -different diets ada, Pa. Sloan's Liniment kills Gd's goodness to man.
and relish- new "dishes? Then pain. -25c at"druggists. Adv
i .
provide plenty of garden produce
I mi r-i i
for the table, for vetretahlea and riaxoeea. .
It is frequently-remarked with furaigh & parUf tllJ Atthe-present time iabout 2,
mineral salts that ar npcpnsarv 200,000 acreare devdted to the
Republican pax ty had its begin
ning in the fight f over contested
delegations. " This year none of
the presidential aspirants nor his
friends care anything about 4he
contests.
'X X X
Iii all the big cities of Italy
... ... . I fViaiA Vioira Kaon fwrvrYirTf.A Kon A d I
place and the celebration will be v.B.. ifce a sayi bofch .
on iv all its glory and due honor of bys and lrls who go around cost.WalI Street Journa,
will be paid the' living and the and coIIect a11 the papers they
I C J rpi . i vj. j.
dead heroes. If flowers can be iese r urougnt tu
obtained, and they will be, the establishments where other boys
graves of the soldiers sleeping and irls' under the direction of
beneath the clod of the valley women teachers- turn these pa-
will be duly strewn with frag. Pers into solid rolls and sections,
rant flowers, the precious orna- aiw?rwuu cut int, cnunKS
mev.t3 of earth. What more gen- Those are packed into individ
erous or precious could be done ual bag3 a"d distributed among
fi,o v,nn fhpi'i. mpmnripa with the soldiers in the bleak mount-
these rare gifts and tokens of ains
have a little hot soup or coffee he
Permanent Results Make
Many Lasting Friends.
I give each patient the benefit o
the knowledge I have acquired during to any candidate of any party and for
my 35 years' practice. As a special-1 any office.
must be signed by five party electors
and the fee is one-half of 1 per cent
of a year's salary, but can not ex
ceed $25.
At this August primary will- be
chosen candidates for governor. Unit
ed States senator, congressional and
legislative candidates, as well as can
didates for state and county offices
and for judicial positions.
The Ohio Anti-Saloon league urges
voters of all parties to interest them
selves in seeing that clean, capable
high grade men are nominated for ail
offices, and that special attention be
given to the selection of anti-ilqnor
candidates for congress and the legislature.
Experience shows that when a man
who Is nominated by tne brewers and
c'istillers is sent to a legislative body,
be can be used by other special Inter
ests. It Is not uncommon for big In
terests to loan legislators to each
other.
The senator or representative who
1 under obligation to the wet lntai--'
opts makes a poor, uncertain and dan-
eerous representative of the people.
He Is unsafe and can not be trusted.
The party man strengthens his par
ty and insures wise legislation to tne
people when he votes at the primaries
for an honest, clean candidate who is
rnder no obligation to the liquor
trust.
In Ohio right now the liquor camp
has men at work in the counties and 1
eenatorial districts trying to divide
the dry strength by encouraging the
rumber of dry candidates for an of
fice, expecting to get behind one wet
cendidate for the same place and
rcminate him. This is an old trick
tnd the drys should not be caught
by it.
There are enough anti-liquor voters
in all parties to nominate anti-liquor
cendidates for all offices. What is
needed is a little effort and now is
the time to put forth the effort.
It does not follow rhat every candi
date for office who allies himself with
the drys should be nominated. If he
does not measure up to the standard
in all other respects, get back of a
tetter man. However, no matter how
capable a candidate may be, he is
unworthy support if he is controlled
by the liquor interests. This applies
EFFECTS OF LIQUOR
ON THE CHILDREN
' gratification by Republican lead
ers that there is not the slightest
antagonism among the aspirants
for the presidential nomination
at Chicago, Nothing unkind is
Mrs. C. W. Jervis and daught-
er Nellie of Columbus were vis
itors yesterday afternoon of Mrs.
M. J. Coburn.
P. B. Miller has begun an im-
to the well-being of the human ttistoS' Ptflax, chiefly in i North provement of his residence prop-
system. Vegetables in the diet uaicota, 'Minnesota, south Dako- erty, which, when completed,
are worth more than their food to"Mid'4-.Moatana.A'tlieiiflax::i8 will add very much to the ap-
or money value. The need of Kwn rtmraaruywfor the seed.lpearance and comfort of the
being said by one aspirant or his tonics and otner medicines in tKe Uronrwhichr1imieed-oiI- is manu- building. While everybody is
friends against any other candi- Lpring fa due argely to ,ack factured. "The annnal crop am-, pushing forward to acquire bet-
date. , As a eonsequence.1 a he of ?egetab,es and fruit in the ounts to about 20;000,000'bUshels ter surroundings, Mr. Miller, is
defeated aspirants will find it winter diet - ,f mor. sllllllr,Jof Beedmnd is valued at approxi- trvine to keen un with the Dro.
perfectly easy to fall m line m fo0(Lwere used iemone would mately $33;000,OOO. The crop al- cession and do something to en-
tons of straw,' but of this only a-1 lage. May this spirit possess
ist, graduated, licensed and registered
physician, I can give you the best re
sults in the shortest possible time. Re
member the best is always the cheap
est and no treatment is too good for
VOUr case. T nnlv trAftt. fVirnrnp dia.
in case a soldier desires to I eases of men and womeD- I have had! JUlcRlIB uUUll Judge rou 10
wonderful success in cases of stomach I () ICtS Dflllk
uuuuie, uuu an sorts oi caiarrnai (lis-
takes out three or four pieces of Uses. Mv natients are ...mnW t
coal paper ' and his hot meal is my reasonable charges. If I did not Lisbon, O. (Special.) Judge L. A.
soon readv I ao goa worK could 1 visiting these " arr OI ine prouaie cuun oi uoium
- I u- 1 1 .
same towns for 23 years? Come and umua a"u,uy' wuo uas ",so ueen JUVfr
... j . . I nile court Judge for the past seven
fee me and we will talk over your case. year8 in a puW,Bhed ,etter' says that
consultation, examination and advice a careful examination of the records
fre6i of his court discloses the fact that
, . 83 per cent of all cases arise either
Dr. Kutchms next visit to Green- directly or indirectly from th traffic
ville, will be on Thursday. Mav 25 I in Intoxicating liquors. Continuing,
- ' - ' I T.J TT...
at the Hotel James. Call in the fore
noon. Adv
To Rid Child of Worms.
Don't scold the fretful, nerv-
ous child, utten it s due to
worms, (iet rid oi these by giv
ing one-half to one lozenge Kick-
apoo Won.i Killer, a laxative
worm candy, dive only plain
nourishing food, lots of out-door
exercise'and put to bed early.
Judge Farr says:
"A large number of abnormal and
defective children brought into our
court have been affected directly or
Indirectly by strong drink. The most
notable of these are the epileptics and
those having chorea. A fair estimate
would be about 65 per cent of the
cases."
support of the nominee.
will be n6 hard feelings against raedjcjne
the winnerno adverse criticisms
"for the losing candidates to re
gret. There 'has not : been in
- -.. . y. ,
twenty years, a campaign so free
irom-'C era cmaii ties as this. ? AIV
Children Cry
FOR FLETCHER'S
CASTOR I A
-ST'Subscribafor thJearnal. '
bout'200;000 tons are put' to anyJ more of iur people. While these
profitable use. - .l material improvements are being
j. 1.1 ; I L.ii i
Y1Vi1amm r imaae, mere is one more Daaiy
FOR FLETCHER'S I needed, and that is a curfew or-
C AG.T.O R A di nance to drive our lads from
Home-Made Fly Paper.
To make home-made fly paper,
mix together equal parts by mea-
Watch stools and continue giving sure of resin and castor oil. Stir
Kickapoo Worm Lozenges, they over hot water until mixed then,
will positively remove the worms, while still a little warm, spread it durlng January and February, ms,
I v I under license, numbered 1,789. For
25c at druggists. Adv on alW good strong paper that is
not too porous ; foolscap is gopd.
Portland Says Prohibition Pays.
The big city of Portland, Ore., Is
Quite certain that prohibition pays.
Arrests for drunkenness and vagrancy
Subscribe t o r the
Read IMazine Offers
V '11 T 1
Page Five of Journal.
the corresponding months of this yeai
under prohibition, 531.
More buildings are under way and
being planned than for many yean.
Traffic accidents show a big fallng off.
Savings accounts have grown in num
ber and volume. Rental men say the
demand for good store locations U
greater than the supply.
, r
r
i
4'
