THE WE
Fair to-day
IT SHINES FOP. ALL
Hithest tempr-attthe ye
Detailed weather, mail ana
PRICE TWO CENTS. '
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 2G8.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, MAY 25, 1916. CopvrlpM, 1916, by the Sun t'rtnttng and Publishing A.jociaflon.
Jstttt
kygjB: lowest,
HMHHon page 17,
1 KILLED HIM,'
DR.WAITESAID
T0MRS.H0RT0N
j
wi . It .. I .1.
"(milT WonUm' 111 rOCK
Cast1 Admits Cont'ossioii,
(Joadod by State.
L00KK1) ON INSANITY
PLKA AS A mTGE JOKE
" Have Them Ouossinjr,
They Think I'm Crazy "
lie Wrote.
KK WEEPS AS SHE
TELLS TRAGIC TALE
)IiiiTied Life Always Happy
(Jives Events of Night
Her Father Died.
Three women Elliabeth C. Hardwlck.
Clara Ionise Peck Walte, the accused
nun's wife, and Margaret Weaver Hor
ton, the "other woman" brought the
trial of Dr. Arthur Warren Walte for
l murder of his father-in-law, John K.
Peck, to a dramatic climax yesterday.
Miss Hardwlck was the "K. Adams"
lifcse telegram had set In action the In
vtigatiin which had brought about the
trla.
The wife, calm but repressing her
emotions only by a strong effort, nar
rated the experiences of her married life,
beginning with the whirlwind wooing and
ending with the parting with her hus
band at the Grand lUplds i-tatlon on
March IT, when he started for New York
uty and a prison cell.
l!.iIdly the wife told of tho marriage, j
the talk about money, the premonition i
the death of her father, the actions
(luring the tatal Illness, the preparation
i ' 'he food, the fatal cup of eggnogg,
t urging of cremation, the suggestion
' ii she make a will nnd the last letter
received.
Mr.. Morton, sullen and self-poscsscd.
I( .i only by sledge hammer questions
t make any answers at all. told of her
t iric months companionship with the
r-i. their language lessons, voice les-
nr, dramatic lessons, their "studio" at
i i" P.az.i Hotel and then, almost In
monosy'lables. of the man's confession to
tcr She testified regarding the letters
wrtten to her from the hospital and
ttm the Tombs In which Walte de
oared that he would not get the "chair,"
but an asylum for the criminal Insane,
f em which he would return to her In a
few years ind then, almost In a whisper,
Mrs. llorton told of her reply that she
"Id wait for him "four yeat or
Lrty."
"Utile Mnn From lilt pt" lloti. 1'p,
Waltc's Joking allusions to the "little,
man from Eg) pt," saying hc must laugh
ti read It, his telling her that if she 1
ini.tlnued to lovo him It was all wurrtf
Mhlle. came just as reluctantly from. MfS?1.,,,,;, , n,e nnval and mllitnrv mens-
C''n!, T co"r,lu'llnB "'',' her
In fi m no,.,"lt" wo wfkH ago,
ua-r the strongest pressure l.v th Ills-'
It I i,lr.r....i-'U I. ..1 ... . . . .
he'.. tTcll in B ,h. An. ". ,,UT,i Prospect of maintaining an enduring
.if.wnSn Possession of the ' ppa wl be wlth le A,cs. Mr. Pon-
l'crcy Pk, son of the man whn 1 s"'by has hardly seemed to rcallre that
the Htnte says was murdered, could add i1' wert" war.
only one tenVo moment to tl 0 d v. a d Wr K,lwar.'1 0re' '""'antly replied,
that when he told how, wit , the repudiating Dr. von nethmann-Hollweg s
"K. Adams" telegram In his pocket , "t Great Britain had played
the aumpsy already ordered, he had net a !"" ln the Bosnia crisis,
the defendant In the station at Grand "That. Mr. Speaker, he said. Is a
Unplds and quietly demanded tho checks first t',il8, "c"
wim 11 would put tlio body nf his father
ln his possession. In the dash of wills
the on pro. ed the stronger and without
word of explanation began the work 1
onirn revealed the truth.
The speedy progress of the trial on
Tuesday hail cleared the way for the big
day in t..e Criminal Branch of the Su
preme Court yi-Herday morning. Many
per ns, the majority of whom were
women, R ii pat the door somehow and
were 11s near the railing as they could
get raily.
Percy Peck, his wife, Miss Catharine
leek, the sinir of John IJ. Peck; Miss
Hardwlck, a young echool teacher, who
lues with her uncle, Dr. Jacob A. Cor
nell, at Somervllle, nnd a few friends
took i-eats at the side. Harry Muck
llortnn, his wife and her sister wero
ngamn the wall. Mrs. von Palineii
re. Dora Hillier, the' negro maid, and 1
"inir wnnessrg were back In the court
room, all Mlctit, all tense.
Wnlte falls It n Faroe.
Wane himself was little ihanged
"hen lie enteied JnHt a mlnuto before
the door was opened for him lo appear
He h;n ,-ald to Deputy Sheriff Whitman:
""Ii what's the use of this farce?
Thfy could have finished the whole
lh net i'i an hour "
was m nowise concerned, however;
Wiil'n 11. Deuel and Joseph Crater, hlti
fourii.t ami stared ahead at ihe .,l,.i,,rn
f "Ju'Hee" on the wall behind Justice
rii-.irns place. lie nenu-d lo know
thlt Mrs Hnrton was within eyeglntica
0' h ni for he turned his head slightly
"lay mi ,ih not to hee lier She gazed
urious' at him for a while ami iheu
'tartd ahead,
'i'otgij N, Brolhers, Assistant Dlslilct
Atiorney, rushed nine witnesses through
In im hour and twenty. five minutes after
court opened, There was the manager
of lli Corn Exchange Hunk to Identify
1 i" 19,000 check, a garage man tn Iden
tify Kane; Conn Iff, the detective, recalled
fh'iut the embalming fluid ; some ate.
I'ographerH, and Dr. Perry SWiurtz, the
Peck family physician of Grand Haplds,
io had taken charge of the autopsy
Jt thre until Dr. Otto Schiillze arrived
pi Seliurtz swore that death was duo
I" ntsenlc poisoning.
Then next came Percy Peck, the son
Hapldly tin told of his father's age, 72
years his physical condition and tho
drparture f(ir New Vork on February 10
flfr Hie death of the mother.
"Hnd )ou a conversation with Hie det
Miiilant about your father at the time of
Coallitucd o Seventh Page.
BACHELOR GIVES $4,800,000.
Iliilinrt Williams t'nnvvya ltl
1'niitU to Illinois (.'allrnra.
riiic'Aim, May 24. Hobart William.',
In addition to establishing a trust fund
of J2,noo,0n0 for the benefit of ten Illi
nois Institution'., has conveyed to the
University of Chicago the Williams
j Building, a downtown property worth
about 12,500,000, according to an an
nouncement made to-day,
J,r Williams also deeded to St.
Luke's Hospital p.operty valued at
' K0O.000. and to the Y. M. C. A. prop
erty worth nhoiit $100,000. I
' Sir. WIIHlima 1 ?f) vnnr. nlil ntnl n
bachelor. Although born In Chicago he I
has lived In Cheshire, Conn., for the last I
. ...A n. n ..a., til..
The ,2,000,000 trust fund Is largely In
Nested In (loverninent bonds, and the In
come Is to be applied In the case of the
colleges to the assistance of poor and
deserving students seeking to obtain an'i
education ,
Institutions benefiting by the gift are ,
Illinois College, Ilockfnrd College. Mon
mouth College, Illinois Wesleyan College,
Mllllkon University, Chicago Commons,
the" Home for Crippled Children, the
Chicago Orphan Asylum, the Old People's
Home and the Episcopal Home for Aged
Persons. , '
15 WOMEN TO BE DELEGATES.
Will It r rr sent WrXern Mates In
Democratic Convention.
Washinuton, May 24. Fifteen women
have been elected delegates to the Demo-
cratlo natlonul convention at St Louis,
i Kansas, California and Washington have
(hoscn four women delegates each, Arl-
zona has chosen one and Wyoming two,
Hero Is the roster of women delegates
which has been made up at Democratic
headquarters here :
Kansas Mrs. W. A. Harris, Mrs. Mat
tie 1). Hale, Mrs. J. K. Drcnnan and Mrs.
It. J. Ebman.
California Mrs. Nora F. Rasmussen.
Miss Mary K. Foy. Mrs. W. C. Tyler and
Mrs. Hlrd E. Hobby.
Arizona Mrs. II. K. Fletcher.
Washington Mary A. Munroe, Mrs.
M. It. Harter, Mrs. Harrison F. Foster
and Mrs. Elizabeth D. Christian.
Wyoming Mrs. T. S. Talllaferro and
Mrs. Mary G,- Bellamy.
GREY SEES NO PEACE
SIGNS IN GERMANY
... r. i c.. n..i.i :.. 1
rnrniirii ucrtMurv rjtus i iiohu
.Must First Itealize Kaiser
Can't Win.
fiifcittl Cable flMMlrt to Tilt St v
London, May 24. Sir Edward Grey, 1
Irltlsh Secretary for Foreign Affairs, , '
rtrltlsh Secretary for Foreign Anairs. .
. . L , m nw
declare to-day In the House of Com-,
nions that the first steps toward peace
will have been taken when Germany
realizes that the AllleH are unbeatable.
The Foreign Secretary's statement was
In reply to the recent statement of Dr.
von Hetliniann-iiouweg, me utimmi
Chancellor. He declared that there are
as yet no signs thnt opinion In Ger
rrived nt such a stage as
will 'lend the Allies to discuss peace. I
. . . . .
Sir Edward was prompted to make hl ,
statement by a speech by Arthur I on- i
sonny, i.ioerai iiu-iiuh.-i iui ...i
Hurshs. who advocated peace negotia
tions and said that there was n. dead
lock In the war. He declared that the
Interview of Sir Kdward Grey In the
American tiress was disrespectful to
Parliament and hinted that the continu
ance of the war wa due to secret ob
ligations of Great Ilrltaln and the
Allies .
Rebuking ronsonby for making no
allusion to Verdun Sir Kdward said:
"Through the long battle of Verdun
France Is saving not only herself but
l. llla n uell I helleve it is the
juy of diplomacy to maintain the solid- i
aim.. r,H dve ih. inmost I
urea which are being taken by the Allies
, ,ommon , i,rB the war to n stage
"... .... 1.. ,.i,ioi, 11,.
"as '"'" '
110 "eciarcu inai iierm.tii iiuu , i-.uri.,
a conference becauwe there was not good
The Allies are not defeated and ,
it Kln: tn be defeated, he said,
Diplomacy Is now limited to maintaining
their solidarity.
Sir Kdward Grey asserted that Great
Britain was not negotiating with ajiy
enemy Power. Ho said thnt France,
by vlrtuo of her sacrifices alone, wns
entitled to speak of peace, but would
not.
PEACE TALK IN GERMAN ARMY.
IllndenburE Tells Ilia Troopa
Humor la Unfounded.
Ii.vnov. May 24. A despatch from
Hern stntcs that Field Marshal von Ilin-
denburg has Issued the following field
order to his forces on me imsman uuiu .
"For somo time a minor has been
spreading among tho troops that peace
negotiations are about to begin, and this
fuel, coupled with the Instinct of self
prcervatoii which Is constantly grow
ing, Is having a bad effect on tho morale
of the men.
"In the name of tho Emperor I de
clare that there cannot he any question
of peace until you havo crossed tho
Dwlna. Soldiers, If you wisn peace, go
nn(1 pk !t on the other sldo of the
Dwlna,'
HALL DESTROYS GERMAN AERO.
American Aviator Attnt'ka Ilia Op
ponrnt Ifl.OtMl Frrt In the- Air.
fiprrial fable Pespntci to Tim Six.
Paris, May 24. Bert Hall, one of tin
members of tho American Aviation
Corps, attacked a German aeroplane last
Monday at a height of 13,000 feet, bring
ing It down. Hall followed downward
to it height of 3,000 feet and saw his
opponent Hmashcsl to fragments Just
within the German lines.
His wn machine also ..as hit,
C0ETHALS SAILS HOME TO-DAY.
nt Yrt Ordered tn Command Mlll
tnry Forces In f'nnnl .one.
iperial Cable tlenpntch to Tnr. St n,
Panama. May 24. Oen,' Uoethals haa
not been notified that his powers have
been extended to cover the command
of tho nillltnry forces in the Panama
Cmial .one. He will leave to-morrow
for New York unltsa h la ordtrad t
remain.
GERMANS RETAKE
DOUAUMONT FORT
Suffer Heavy Losses in Final
ly Successful Attnek on
French Lines.
OCCITY CUMIEHES ALSO
Win fli.ni til nn Ttnrli 1lilltla it
...I. Illllll IM'lll .. " -
Mouse, but Arc Checked
in Champagne. ,
Special table Detpatc loTm Sts
1'aris. May 21. As the result of a
practically continuous attack on both
sides of the Meuse last night and to- measures, carrying a total of J241.449,
day the Germans have won two notable ci t0 be expended during the coming
successes at the expenditure of a great fiscal year, was formally reported to the
number of men. House to-day by the Committee on Nnval
In the fighting east of Le Mort I Affairs.
Homme, on the left bank of the river, i The htilldlngs programme, the most
they occupied the village of Cumleres
and took a trench lietwccn the village
and Lo Mort Homme. This afternoon
Fort Douaumont, on the east bank,
which the French recaptured on Mon
day, was retaken by the Germans.
The retaking of the fort was the re-
suit of the concentration of repeated
attacks of the most desperate character!
against this one point.' Two Havari.ui1
divisions which had been brought to '
the Verdun front only recently were
employed against the fort.
The bombardment of this sector had
continued without Interruption since
the French took the position and had In
creased In violence, particularly this
afternoon, when the already tremendous
expenditure of ammunition was doubled.
Even then the first attacks, made with
out counting the cost In men, broke
down under the French tire, but the er
fnrl wM rnnteit Until lit lust the Ger-
mans again occupied the fort, long since J
onlv a mass of ruins but valuable be
cause of the high position on which It
Mands.
French Hetaln Outskirts.
While the bulk of the German attack
ing troops were conducting these nt
I tacks on the fort other forces wcte
I attempting to Malik the French positions
east of the fort. These I
These attempts broke I
.... ,. ,... ,v, i.,..,.,.i. r nn.i u
enti of the iiav rounu t ie i renci still
holding the terrain adjoining the ruins '
i n .k.i. I
in the nnnj 1
While this terrific fighting was In ,
progress on the east bank of the river
n.rm.n.m.,1 L'r.neh imnlRneniislv '
took the offensle on the west bank In
se,tnr if ('ilnilrreN nntl I jf Mort
... ,, ,. ,
HUIIIIIH, IIIC VICI IllUlin .1 IICIIIIIIIIIK .VJ
nue ther advttnce from tne vHUte of
CumlereH and the French attempting to
. ,h .., Tn. Qermans failed
. ,h.ip ,-..nn,i .i,. nosltlons .
occuplf(1 )ftHt niKht. ami tho French coun-
, attacks were successful to the ex-1
tent nf recovering n trench on the verv
edge of the village. I
The official communique Issued by the 1
French War Office to-night follows;
uii .lie im Ltnnn ui iiiu .urusi
fantry nctlons continued. i:ast o
Mor, Hommo our artillery tire
On the left bank of tho Meuse In-
f I.e
re on
several occasions checked the enemy,
who was attempting to debouch from
the village of Cumleres. In the course
of the afternoon a lively counter nt
tack by our troops enabled us to re
cover trenches on the southern edge of
the village.
On the right bank the bombardment
redoubled In violence In the region of
ron wouaumom, against wnicn tne
enemy delivered His principal assault.
Furious attacks, In which were en
gaged two Ilavarlan divisions newly
arrived at tho front, succeeded each
other throughout the day. After sev-
eral fruitless attempts and enormous
losses the enemy succeeded in reoc-
cupylng the ruins of the fort, our
troops holding the ground Immediately
adjoining the fort. At the same
moment an attempted outflanking
movement of our positions in the Hols
tie la Callletto failed completely under
our barrage lire and our Infantry fire.
There Is no Important event to re
port on the rest of the front.
Cnptnrr of Camlrres,
The capture of Cumleres last night
was accomplished through an attack
which culminated In hand to hand fight
ing with the bayonet and at the cost
cf Important losi.es On the east bank
of the river last night the attacks which
resulted this afternoon In the recap -
ture of Fort Douaumont were continued
throughout the night, the only gain
achieved up to this afternoon, In spite
of the repeated efforts, having been the
taking of a small part of a trench cast
of the fort.
An attack was made by the Ger
mans last night In Champagne, west of
the Navarln farm, under cover of gas
fumes. The nttack failed under the
French fire curtain.
The afternoon communique waa as
follows :
In Champagne, with the help of an
outburst of gas, the Germans at
tempted to reach our HneM in the re
gion west of Navarln farm. Our cur
tain of fire threw the enemy back
Into his own trenches.
On tho left hank of the Meuse the
Germans launched a powerful offen
sive action during the night east of
Eo Mort Homme. After a hand to
hand battle the enemy penetrated, at
the cost of heavy losses, the vil
lage of Cumleres and one of our
trenches Immediately to the west.
New reenforcemonts having ar
rived It Is apparent that the effective
forces employed by the enemy In the
retflon of Ee Mort Hommo since May
21 number more than three divisions
(60,000 men).
On the right bank of the Meuso
artillery preparation and Infantry at
tacks followed each other with equal
violence In the region of Haudronicnt
and Douaumont. Despite the fury
of his attack tho enemy, who had no
regard for human life, succeeded In
gaining n foothold only In some trench
elements east of tho fort (Douaumont).
All his efforts against our positions
to the west and against tho fort Itself
were shattered by our Are.
In the Woovre there was a bom
bardment In the Hectors of Elx and
Moulalnvlllo.
Tho cost of the tremendous fighting
before Verdun In the last few days la
Indicated ny the remark or a French off I-
cer, quoted In an Interview, that "Plots
of lund coma high here,"
The German determination to recover
Fort Douaumont was carried out with
all the desperate hurling of masses of
men Into the struggln which might be
expected from n command which saw
a position which It regarded as vital to
ultimate success In this region Inst after
It hnd been closely organized Into the
German lines, Military 'wrltera baltavaj
)
Cytlnutd on Fifth Page,
$241,449,151 NAVY
BILL NOW IN HOUSE
U. S. Preparedness Programme
Calls for Five Battle
Cruisers This Year.
$2,000,000 FOR AVIATION
Fiskc Wins Democrats De
fend Failure to Provide
Dreadnoughts.
Washington. May 24. The naval ap
propriation bill, the second of the Ad
ministration's Important preparedness
important feature of the measure rec-
ommended by the committee, Is as fol
lows :
Five battle cruisers to cost 120,433,631
each.
Four scout cruisers costing $6,S71.D00
each
Ten destroyers costing $1,325,314.
Th. .K.irin.. n.ith Hiirfara dls-
,,ttcemrnl of about 00 tons. 1.20(1,302
each. Seventeen
smaller suumarines.
1.31,302 each.
One fuel ship to cost ll.363.2T2. One
ammunition ship, $2.704,6.10. One hos
pital rhlp. $2,250,000.
The total cost of this programme, the
committee says In Its report, will amount
to $160,08", 357, and the appropriation
necessary to carry- this plan Into effect i
for the first year will amount to $5s,244,-
. inc. Tim n.n,.tunlf Inn fnr these SIllllS Is
" '. . . . - ... ..... t.1,1 .....tl.,.. ...
Jn.'.jssrtnaklng In all $JU,4So7251. 1
In nddltion to this sum there will have
to be appropriated $68,328,171 for the
continuation of the work on vessels here
tofore authorized.
2,000,000 for Aviation.
Other provisions In the bill, apatt from
the maintenance of the navat esiauiiMi
r; , .,i.,.,i ,..
I lie ilitl rrtpr ... uir n... . -
..-- .
Tlte Increase of the enllsteu personn..
of the Mar lie Corns by 3.0.9 men.
The establishment of a naval fl)lng t(
corps of 150 officers and student tilers,
and 350 enlisted men.
The establishment of naval reserve
consisting of six classes.
1 k. ti t utirnn rlnllmi .if 1" fttin.OOO fOr
aviation.
AtithorUatlon of a projectile plant to
cost not more than $1,411,222.
An appropriation of $13,720,000 for
ammunition for the navy.
The authorization of dry docks, to cost
not more than $3,500,000 each, at the
Norfolk and 1'hlUdelphla navy yards.
An appropriation of $1,000,000 for an
experimental naval lauoraiory, 10 torn
I nut more man i,uvv,uvv.
I The establishment of the offloo of
1 Chief of Operations upon a legal basis
I with the rank of Admiral nnd authority
over fifteen officers who will have direct
charge of the work of tho fleet.
I Fnr n I'aclflr Conference.
I Stress also Is laid by the committee
In Its report on the one pacinc pro
vision of the bill which calls for an
appropriation of $200,000 to pay me e
penses of an International conference to
.... . .nn.l l... Ilm TVealflent lit the COII
' .......1 L'nmn.un nur fnr the
elusion i ii'c ----
purpose of considering the settlement of
International disputes by arbitration nnd
the discontinuance of tho construction
of competitive armaments.
In this connection the committee
"while desirous that the country shall
k. t.rnnorlv rirena red against attack by
a foreign foe and fully realizing that
the navy Is the first line of defence" ex-1
presses the hope that the object of such
a conference may bo attained.
The bill represents ln large measure 1
.,i.. ti, view of the Democratic mem
bers The Republican members of the
committee will file their report to-morrow
approving of minor provisions of
the bill, but presenting more compre
hensive demands for a building pro
gramme, the chief point ot contro-
VCT-Fr nemneratlc members of the com
mittee Justify their failure to provide
for dreadnoughts, which have been char-
1 notorized as the backbone of the navy,
, by pointing out the diversity of opinion
-L' ii-.il officers who appeared be
foro tho committee as to the Immediate
needs of the fleet, the defects of the navy
us disclosed in war games, and the ex
periences of foreign navieB in the war.
I.rsunn of the Wr.
"In operations avalnsl an enemy that
nonsenses battle cruisers." sa) the ma-
ioritv reiiott. "the United htatcs without
1 "" . Ill l.n ,i i. mivil Bnrlmiu
sny audi veiweis in - ... . v.. .
disadvantage for the reasons above set
forth At tho outbreak of tho present
war there were of this type, built and
building. In the British navy, ten; In
the German navy, eight; In the Japa
neo navy, four, and In the Russian
navy, four,
"Recent reports tend to Indicate that
ii.... numbnis are being added to as
rapidly as building facilities under war
pressure will permit. A lcsnon to be
learned from this war seems to bo
that If a possible enemy Is operating
Mfisvla whose speed enables them to
elude a battlewup witn certainty ana
which are powerful enouh not to fear
smaller craft the only method of de
fence against the bnttle cruiser seems to
be the battle cruiser.
"The comjiiillng reason for the recom
mendation by the committee for the
battle crutser In the fact thnt each of
several foreign navien have the battle
crtilter and It therefore becomes an
absolute necessity for the proper naval
defence of tlio country for the United
Stiitffl to likewise equip the navy with
this type of vessel."
Aavy "HUhly F.fnelrnt."
The report also formulates nn elabo
rate defence of the navy In reply to tha
criticism of the present naval adminis
tration based for the most nart on the
testimony of Admiral Fletcher, the com
munder In chief. The assertion Is made
that In ships, guns and men the navy l
In n highly efficient condition.
Of the aviation appropriation tho com
mittee snyB;
"It is contemplated that the $2,000,000
recommended, In nddltion to providing
... ,V.i". ni ...... ,nT
bring the number of service machines up
to seventy-nve, and n soon ns the
various ships are fitted up the machine
will lie put upon them. It must be re
membered that the principal function of
HVlutlon for naval purposes la acoullnt
Continued on Sixth Page,
I
MAYOR READS WIRE TAPPED TALKS
. IN CHARITY CASE; SAYS CRIMINAL
ACTION WILL BE PRESSED SOON
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBr - .V
Copyright International Him Service.
jyjAYOR MITCI1EL liefore the Thompson committee yesterday, when
he read the record of the telephone conversations that were inter
cepted when the win; were tapped in the charities investigation ,hy
order of the Police Department.
WHOLE CHURCH
IN MAYOR'S
Only a Group and Non-Catholic Laymen," He Says,
Sought to Hamper City in Effort to Better
Charities Conditions.
The .M.ijoi pfcCiceil his recital of the 1
alleged conversations with the following
statement a resume nf the o.ise as he
presented It at the hearing on Tuesday :
For two years and a half, as the
representatl e of all the people of this
city, I have been endeavoring to secure. '
humane treatment and proper care for
the 22,000 homeless and dependent
children committed as city wards to I
private charitable Instlttitlonn. 1 have j
been endeavoring to secure proper ad
mlu'Ktr.itlnn of the $5,000,000 of pub
lic funds annually disbursed to these
Institutions for the care of the elt)'s
wards.
That Is the cause I am lighting for,
and I .!iall continue to tight for It
I .hall continue to tight for it .
atter what damage It may bring
no m
to me. for It is a matter or puimi'
duty and perfonal conscience. In this
work I have found myself and my
Influences are which have sought to
Interfeie with or lo control a branch
of tho government of this city.
In connection with the Inquiry con
ducted b) the Governor's Commissioner,
Mr. Charles H. Strong, under the
Moreland net It came to the knowledge
of the clO's authorities that certain
crimes had been committed, lu secur
ing the evidence of the commission of
theso crimes the Police Department
has brought to light the cmit-plracy
which was hatched to frustrate the
work of the Department of Charities.
The evidence of the commission of tha
crimes Is also the evidence of the ex-
ALLIES GET REPLY TO
MAIL SEIZURE NOTE
lT. S, Takos Issue With Kn
(fiitc's Views and Tnsists
Acts Are IUpruI.
Wasminoton, Mny 24. Thf reply of
the I'nlted States to the last Joint note
of the British and French Governments
on the question of luterfeilng with malls
has been completed anil was commuui
rated to-uay t im , '"'
. . . ... .... .ltl..l.
S'"m";i,,!"?n" ."?..! h.a:l"r" these helpless children unhappily torn
viiineu, misreiu.-.-viMf.i unu 119nm.ru 1 . .nnnm,., circumstance from their
I hvendrao'ielnnthese , JIJt?
Ambassadors ior iiiiiii-iiiii.jm.mi id i .im
and London. The note will be made pub-1 Unmburprr fiachrichtcn quotes the Ml
lie on Saturday. j lowing:
It is understood that the L'nlted States "Kngland," sas Barsermaun, "was
takes Issue with all the main points nI,v.B rorrectly appreciated bv Von
raised III the last note from tho Kntente. . , ,
J Vrnmenl denies that the selzute ' Tlrl,ltJ!- nnJ oscillations of the Ger-
of malls from the I'nlted Stntcs to neu -
trnl countries can bo construed ns com
ing within the spirit or international law,
and it falls to see how Great Britain and
France can legally Justify their proce
dure on the ground that Gt rmany has
violated the law.
It hns been the constant conten
tion of the State Department that two
wrongs do not make a right, and the
United States cannot see why Its In
terests should suffer nt the hands of the
Kntente because nf charges which these
Powers bring against Gvrmany.
Sir Cecil Spring-Rice, the British Am
bassador, has hud several talks with
Counsellor Polk relative to settling the
dispute over detention and seizure of
mails liie AilUJai-tiiiiitir nun euiieii nun
the Kntente Is willing to do everything
which can ho done without Interfering
with matters of vital military expediency
In order to adjust the matter with the
United States.
The most serious aspect of the ques-
Hon at present Is the fact that the En-
tenia claims Germany la violating postal
1 regu'""" ' ,,,", a' "!
nf contraband from the United Slates
The Kntente claims that this necessi
tates some supervision of the malls.
GREAT BKAR HFRlNO WATBB,
Mo. the eaaa of all f laeotopptrid aettlaa,
it.
NOT BLAMED
PLOT CHARGE
Istenoe of this conspiracy nga.nst the
government.
It Is not the Catholic Church which
has so conspired to pervert Justice
nnd obstruct or control government,
but a small group within the Church
cooperating with a few non-C.ithollc
laymen. It is this croup 1 charge
with conspiracy. Thl" group 1 am
convinced is not representative of the
Cliunh or of tho great body of rlsht
thinking, honest Catholics ot till city.
Jews. Protestants and Catholics
alike will think as I do on this ques.
t'.nn when the disguises are tenioved
from the naked truth and the Issue
which Is beneath it all, the ibt'ent care
of the 22,000 children for whom the
cltv of New York mult act as fattier
andmother.becotnescUJrtoi.il
A a trutee of the public fluids
which the city annually dlsbmes to
theee Institutions, as the chief exec-
and as Mayor, responsible for the hon
esty und efficiency of the Police De-
partment, It In my right as well as
my duty to make known to the pub
I lie all of tho facts In this matter,
I When, a now, It happens that thee
i farts nre pertinent to )our Inquiry and
relevant to the question under con
sideration, namely, the propriety of
tha action of the Police Depart
ment in supervising the telephone
wires of the Potters and of Father
Farrell, It became doubly my right
to be heard fully In public upon this
question.
SAYS TIRPITZ WOULD
HAVE PREVENTED WAR
Biissernnmu Deelnres as Clmn
cellor He M t llnve Mnde
Pnet With Enplnnil.
Special Cable Despatch tn Tnr Sc.
A.msteiipam, May 21, F.rnet Bisser
m. inn. the National-Liberal leader In the
Reichstag, has published a pamphlet on
the former Minister of Marine, Grand
Admiral von Tlrpltz. from which the
1 man policy which set 111 under Chancel
lor Caprlvl, and hnve continued through
out the last twenty-flvo yearn, fonnl no
support from him.
"A corieit peiception of the British
national character and British history
was part and parcel of his being, and ns
he knew that we should not be spared
In the present struggle with that uatloM
of pirates he prepared for It. Yet
many a time 1 had the Impression that
when the negotiations with Cngland for
the purpose of a limitation of arma
ments wero lu question that Von Tlr
pits as the leading statesman, that Is,
as Chancellor, would hnve been th
only nno who could have brought about
such an ngreement. Although ho was
hated and feared In Kngland he never
theless enjoyed there such a reputation
and such prestlue that his strong hand,
if he had offered It, would not havo been
rejected.
, "The open disagreement between the
Minister nnd the creator of tho navy
was rertnlnly a factor which did not In
fluence the German policy favorably."
This Is u thrust at the Imperial Chan,
cellor, and coming from one of the most
Influential politicians In the empire It
may have some effect. The article
further show that the advocntea of tha
i'unllmlled torpedo" by no maana ray
alined thermal vea to their fate.
1 ntli.. r.t.nnkllil fnr the uelf.ire of
Wild Disorder Among Listeners Precedes Re
cital After the Thompson Committee
Records Its Objection to the Police
Reports Being Received.
CHURCH CLIQUE AND LAYMEN
ONLY BLAMED BY CITY'S HEAD
Swann Induces Seymour to Prosecute Burns After John
Doe Hearing Talley Tells Mayor He
Almost Was Indicted.
The conversations alleged to have been taken over the telephones
that were tapped in the recent charities investigation were read to tha
Thompson committee yesterday by Mayor Mitchel. The committee ob-
jected to the recital, but decided to bow to the Mayor's desires und listen
to it on the understanding that the Mayor assume responsibility for ita
I utterance and consequences.
The Mayor's recital was preceded by a pecne of great disorder.
Alfred J. Talley, counsel to Father Farrell, asserted that the Grand Jury
in Brooklyn had failed to indict the Mayor by one vote. The assertion
1 aroused laughs, applause and hisses, nnd then some one in the crowded
room called the Mayor a "little shrimp" und denounced his anticipated
statement as an insult to the Mayor's church and the community.
The police took unusual precautions to pritect the Mayor from
violence. Shields bobbed up unexpectedly after the outburst of disorder
anil two dozen policemen surrounded the Mayor when he was leaving the
Municipal Duilding.
The alleged conversations were related by the Mayor to substan
tiate his story of the day before that he believed there was a conspiracy
to interfere with the city government and that four crimes had been com
mitted perjury, libel, conspiracy to utter the libel and conspiracy to
pervert anil obstruct justice.
The Mayor promised criminal prosecution for the nlleged crime1-' at
the proper time and before the proper tribunal. Action toward this end
may be taken this morning by an official of the Charities Department.
He did not charge the Catholic Church as a whole with plotting against
his administration, the Mayor said in a statement preceding hit. reading
of the telephone conversations, but only certain Catholic priests and non
Catholic laymen.
District Attorney Swann induced Frederick Seymour to promise to
sign a complaint ngainst William J. Bd.-ns, the detective, nfter testimony
at the John Doe inquiry before Chief Magistrate McAdoo accused Hums
again of entering the Seymour & Seymour ofllce and plncing a detcctn
pho'c. To-morrow the John Doe in uiry will go into the question
whether any one connected with Burns's employers knew what he was
doing. Burns's detective license may be revoked.
Mgr. Dunn said that he would not issue until later anv statement
1 bea-ing on the conversations read to the Thompson committee by Mayor
! Mitchel.
i District Attorney Lewis of Kirgs county expressed the opinion that
I the conversations read by the Mayor would not 1 -tve any bearing m tho
courts, as, in his opinion, they would be classed as hearsay testimony.
TAPPED TALKS ARE READ
DESPITE COMMITTEE RULE
Mm) or -Mitchel read Into the record ConimlsMonei William .1 D,.: erty
of tho Thompson legislative committee ."H'Ply to a Magistrate for sunn nsea
yesterday, over the members' protest, ItX i'T Hen!
tram-nipt of the conversations alleged benl In connection with the Mnvor s Mlc.
to have lecn reported over the telephone
wire!" that were tapped In connection
with tho icceiit charlti's investigation.
The unusual recital was preceded by
an outburst of alarming dlsordei An
Indignant spectator, standing half way,., cunsplrft.v ,)f 0ertaln Catholic Wgy
down tho closely packed room, denounced men and others to discredit -his admin
Iho Mayor as a "Utile shrimp" and ob-1 ",,1"n- '" Mayor read them
Jected ns a tnxpayer to the Mayors
anticipated utterances as "an Insult lo
his church and a shameless Insult to
Hie community "
The demonstration, which unnerved all
m tho loom. Including the Mayor, for an
,, or two. occurred Just after a
tilt between the Mayor and Alfred J.
Tallev, counsel to tho Rev, William B.
Farrell, whose telephone was one of those
tat.i.,.,1. Mr. T.illev. ilariilg back at the
Commissioner John A. Klngsbmy anil
William 11. Hotchklss. by only one vote.
The echo of Mi Talley 's retort was u
chorus of sneering "Ha-has." Then ap-Plau-e.
Then hisses Not a few in the
plau-e. 'llion Hisses .oi a tew in im
room winced. " ut him mi t." y.l led
many. Senator Thompson pounded he
table with his gave and airly shouted
for order, lie called on the Mayor for
help and on the policemen in the room
to assist In maintaining oruer.
Mini) Police In Itnnm.
Mnvor, who rental ked that pernaps in- , . , , ,;,' ';, """'
law-Ver was ncuall.t-d with the testimony ' , ' S'5y"r ' "7'?"
before the Kings countv Grand Jury, de-1 ,, themse ves nf responsibility Tho
failed to indict th- Mayor, as well as , ,b.u, ' , ',", '). ,0 U
Pollce Inspector Cray directed every noon announced through Senator Thonip
officer present to pin his shield on his I son that although the members ln lieve.i
coat, Shields appeared on two dozetl they should not listen to the tesnuionv
coals, A few minutes later inspector
Joseph Fniimt came down from Ilead-
iiuatters and took silent charge of things.
Meanwhile the original disturber had
vanished and soon order reigned ngain.
Th nlleged conversations which the
Mayor read followed a statement In
which he made n brief resume of his
presentment on Tuesday. It contained
this addition, however; That ho did not
charge the Catholic Churcii with tho
conspiracy he had outlined to pervert
Justlco and obstruct or control govern-
nient but a small group within the
Church, cooperating with a few non-1 must bo clearly understood, however
CaWiollo laymen. He declared his bo.-! that the responsibility for what ho savj
lief that this group was not represents!-1 rvsts not nu thu commltti o but nn the
live of the Church or the great body of i Mayor."
right thinking honest Catholics of tho, "Slnco yesterday," ntinnunced the Sci
city, Jews, Protestants and Catholic ator when tho Mayor, Cn-purail'in .'oiiu
alike, ho said, would think ns ho does sel Lamar Hardy, Theiuloin Piius-cm
"when the disguises nro removed from ' Commissioner Kingsbury and other olli
the naked truth." ' cials had .taken their scats lu he front
ln tlio questioning before and after of tho crowded room, "the ii air has
the alleged conversations were read the given the statement to the elfect tha'
Mayor promised that action would be we have not changed our mind in rtia.
taken on the four crimes ho charged Hon to tips permission to our disttn
perjury, criminal libel, conspiracy togulshed witness to give the rnviri.i-
utter criminal iioei aim conspiracy
pervert Justice and obstruct the due ad
ministration of the law before tha
proper tribunal and at the proper time,
A plan was even then being discussed
elsewhere to have Deputy Cbarlftea
..minis. i no -Mayor s.il.1 las-t night,
however, that no plan or time hail been
agreed upon for tlio contemplated crlu -tti.tl
action,
The alleged conversations theniselvea
form an amplification ot the Mayor'a
ch:iti-es .it, Ti,-.,)... .1.... .
- w- " -ei ecjiiiriiio conversa
tions, extending over a period from
.March IS to March 2i. Dr Potter,
l asher Fan ell, Robert W. Heblierd.
MntiMgnor John J. Dunn, chancellor of
the diocese . l'.-ith,r iiifT.i,ID t.-..i.A.
i Dlneen and Walter J, Drummo'nd tisura
1 Prominently In them.
j , STZ
to tell the whoUi of his story having
shut him off on Tuesday when ho was
I a'",'t 10 relate the alleged telephone
. . . " '.' me cnmmuieo
yor insisted
It was the committee which wavered
111 Its attitude not to hear the Mavor
relate tho nlleged conversations ..xe'ent
In executive session. Tho committee de-
, ,,,,, Hul,jp(., mornl,.' " "d
at no.m the si nation w i Jt s U had
,,, T , , , - " a,
, determined to say all ho l .t T.iy
,IUU10 0r not at all '
Vleldert In the Afternoon.
So the committee at .1 In the ..fi.r-
i because they considered it Irrelev am a id
incompetent, tliey would defer to the
position of the Mayor as the city's chief
executive officer
"The Mil) or, ' said the Senator, "not
only offers this ti-si.ininy but inslstr.
on stating it befote the committed i
open session. On account of that iu-
sltlon and his position in th ommunitv
when the Mayor comes 1 1 to chairman
will lie disposed in .mow him to slate
the conversations, but we will, however.
ndheiv to our original policy in regard
I to the other cafes of wire tapping it
in iiuim iiinrn .-! irmiiif m ir
latlon In.mils charity imso. Unwove,
we brllovo thai liie committee, inns
much as we have the Irhlsturu of tli.
Mayor, and that It is relevant, wn will
defer to hl Judgment In relation tj Kit
