mutln
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop.
per for week ending
May 17, 29.
WEATHER
I ZONA Generaly
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 18, NO. 310.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, MAY 25, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
JEKVLL HYDE
LIFE IS
1TE
Confessed Poisoner Is Describ
ed as Weepine Vhenever
Affinity Sings, and Doing
All Sorts of Things.
INSANITY WILL BE
PRISONER'S DEFENSE
Platonic Friend of New York
Dentist Tearfully Relates
His Strange Antics Before
Slaying Aged Couple.
(By Review Leased Wire)
NEW YORK, May 24. Mrs. Mar
garet Weaver Horton, the young wo
man with whom Dr. Arthur Warren
Waite. confessed poisoner of his
wife's parents, studied languages and
music and shared a "studid" in a
fashionable New York Hotel, de
scribed late today at Waite's trial for
murder, what she considered the dual
character of the prisoner. This al
leged "Jekyll-HiJe" nature of Waite,
she said, of which he has asserted
manifested itself in the form of a
'iittle man from Egypt", gave the
first inkling to piVve the theory upon
which Waite's lawyers will proceed in
their efforts to prove he was insane
at the time he killed John E.. Peck,
and thereby save him from the elec
tric chair.
Mrs. Horton, who cast sorrowing
glances at Waite as be sat pale and
outwardly1 ill at ease, pot more than
( twenty ft-et from her, followed Mrs.)
Clara Louise Peck Wail, wife 'of the
prisoner, on the stand. Mrs. Horton
told her ordeal to which she herseir
was subjected. It appeared to those
who watched her closely that she was
trying to convey to the prisoner
something of the sympathy she feltj
for him.
Although called as a witness for
the state, Mrs. Hort'jn seemed to be
much relieved when Walter R. Deuel,
counsel for Waite, began to cross ex
amine her. Waite, who had 'sat al
most motionless throughout the ljng
direct examination by Assostant Dls-j
trict Attorney Geo. M. K'ogers, drop
ped his hands from his chin and raised
his eyes toward the witness. The
wife of the prisoner dressed in deep
mourning and sobbing quietly at in-
r
PROTEST ON MAILS HAND
ED BRITAIN AND FRANCE
WASHINGTON. May 24.
Identical notes renewing the
protest of the United States
against Britain's treatment of
neutral mails on the high seas
were handed to the British and
French ambassadors today by
Acting Secretary Polk of the
state department. The docu
ments were signed by Sec.
Lansing at his home, where he
has been ill for several days.
The United States reiterates in
more vigorous terms its objec
tion to the seizure and deten
tion of legitimate mail matter
and insists particularly that
Great Britain stop t.he practice
of seizing vessels on the high
seas and taking them to Brit
ish ports for the purpose of
searching them.
The note was given to the
representatives of both France
and Great Britain. It probably
will be made public Saturday
in London. Paris and Washing
ton by agreement.
OFFICIAL PHOTOGRAPHS OF EXPEDITIONARY FORCES IN MEXICO
FORT 1111
FULLS BEFORE
ONSLAUGHTS
OF GERMANS
Bavarian Hordes Under Shot
and Shell Sweep On to
Bloody Victory After Days
of Furious Fighting.
0-
APPROACH TO FORT
HELD BY FRENCH
:-- ; . :-:.: v--x V. -v. x ' : :, .; ' : ..' -V .;- -.v. - ...... ...
VNOZIHV XIN30Hd
MORE GUARDS MAY BE
CALLED TO BORDER.
1
i
!
;
u
I
SAN ANTONIO. May 24 In
lieu of ore coast artillery, which
General Funs ton recently ask
ed for the border .and which
could not be spared, it is possi
ble state troops of Louisiana,
Arkansas and Oklahoma, will
be mobilized on the border.
Late tonight it was stated at
headquarters that General
Funston had originally asked
the war department for the na
tional guard regiments of Ari
zona. New Mexico, Texas, Lou
isiana, Arkansas and Oklahoma.
As the war department was
unresponsive, he urged that ad
ditional coast artillery be sent
him. Later the request was
renewed and the guard troops
of the three border states were
ordered out.
It is said there are large gaps
yet to be filled on the border,
which are almost wholly unprotected.
1 ii in a n r
ppa nnt
i mm
MOVING ON
i ion
Members of Sixth infantry making
rush with lixed bayonets. Carry
ing wounded Sergeant McGhee off
the field.
These official p xraphs of the
expeditionary forces in Mexico would
seem to indicate that the boys below
the boundary are .iot taking part in
a picnic party. Upper photo shows
the Sixth infantry in maneuvers
rushing the enemy with fixed bayo
nets. These maneuvers are a part
cf thq daily program of the troops in
ramp at the San Antonio base,
lxwer Dhoto shows Serjeant Benja
nln McGhee of the Thirteenth cav
alry, who was wounded in the fight
at Parral, being carried by comrades
to the ambulance which will rush
l.im to tiie border for treatment
Sergeant McGhee was entering Par
rel with, a column under Major
aompkins, and was in the act of giv
ing orders to his squad when a bullet
ireJ by a Mexican entered his mouth
i lodged in his throat. Sergeant
Kciinee is expected to recover.
t
x:
GARRANZA HO If
AWAITED WH
AHYIPTY AT i
nnniLii ni
! iHim
IIIIUIIIIIU I Ull t
Warring Redskins Are Report
I ed 70 Miles South of Doug.
1 las and Marching North.
Story Unconfirmed.
DEFACTO DETACHMENT
REPORTED BEATEN
Colonel Mesa Is Reported De
feated in Smart Clash with
Indians and Driven Back
Into Moctezuma.
Italians Again Routed byAus
trians Leave Artillery Be-
hind Making Another Stand
Beyond Border. V .
(By Review Leased Wire.)
PARIS. May 24. The Germans
have rroccupied Fort Douamont
' while the French hold the ap
' proach to the position. This an
nouncement is made in the offi
cial communication issued by the
French war office tonight, vbicta
says two new divisions of Bavari
ans effected the recapture after
a series of furious attacks.
Pll IJQTfl 11 A K Q PRINCE VON BUELOW
rUHDIUH HOIi); RFpnRTFn nnuifin
r . aii nnn n.i wn i wvniiiiw
t
filOR
uumiuu
BORDER
DEAD TRDOPERS
m nr nunirn
TO llfiiFEO STATES I nr.n tin
III AMERICA
LONDON. May 24. Under a rain ot
stot and shell which inflicted enor
mous losses, the Germans have again
taken Fort Douamont. northeast of
j Verdun trom the French. As though
i tn Avpn fho tirnr flnmp.whnt- however.
lervais. sai irecuy oenina me jury ,hp Frcnph in Spirited countetr -at-
D0X; ,. , . , . tacks northeast of Verdun recaptured
.-Noi a line -j. lesun.ony naa ueu f th Gprnian trPnches on the
oroiiKi'i oui oy ine prosruuiion ioui:u
ing upon Waite's mental condition
when the state rested after Mrs.
Hortvm had finished her story. Sev
eral aUenists were in the court room,
however, waiting to be called in re
butal. The defense, it Is expected,
will open tomorrow In a vigorous at
tempt to prove that Waite was in
sane when he committed the crime.
Sorry for the Prisoner.
Mrs. K'jrton, with a trace of sad
ness In her voice told how she had
met Waite last January when
(By Review Leased -Wire)
LONDON, May 24 A rumor
that Prince von Buelow is to visit
the United State as a peace del
egate is current in diplomatic cir
cles here.
Refused More Coast Artillery,
He Coutners With Request'
Many 'PRESIDENT ATTENDS
GRAYSON WEDDING
(By Review Leased Wire.; ji
SAN ANTONIO, May -24. General !
Funston's request for more coa.t ar- j (By Rpy.ew Lejsed w,re
tillery It is understood here, has been t xeV YORK. May 24. President
refused by the war department. The,' and Mrs. Wilson were the chief guests ,
additional units of the regular army ; today at the wedding of Dr. Oary T.
and the national guard of three bor- Grayson, the White House physician '
der states has enabled him to strength 1 and Miss Alice Gertrude Gordon of
en many of the patrols along the bor-1 Washington and New York, in th
southern outskirts of the village of: der. but even with that added force chapel of St. George's Church. The
Cun.ierez which the Germans had oc- there remain many unprotected points ' President came here, especially for
copied in the late fighting and also I and it was to protect them that he the wedding and left soon afterward
stopped with their artillery several at-tasked for more companies of coast ar- ' for Washington.
tillery. j
General Funston refused to confirm 1 WASHINGTON. May 24. President,
(By Review Leased Wtr.)
DOUGLAS, May 24. Reports .that
; Yuqiii Indians had appeared in the
i district around Moctezuma! SVnora.
' served to make last night and today
I periods of grave Btress for the people
of Naiftjzari, 70 miles south of Doug
la Tho irorrin Ami ih enTlrp male
; Apprehension is Felt That i population of the town are reported
Mexican Chief Will Repeat,' to have remained under arms all last
His Demand for Withdraw-! nl8ht1,; shT ,rtkout
r r . for the Indians,
al Ol Expedition. Word came today that the Indians
! attacked a small force under Colonel
NO DATE SET FOR ' Manuel Mea and had driven tbe soJ-
wrVTT'C tDDlVtl i diers back Into the fjwn of Mocti
INUltD AKK1VAL n,ma, but this Is officially denied in
j i ; Agua l'rieta.
Reports of Friendliness Grow I Another report stated that Indians
mg in Mexico Ulty Oince ; Hacienda Mababl. 35 roilea southeast
Conference, Lend Hopeful of nougias. This i also unverified.
T. r J f....i It was learned ftmight on good author-
lone to Lxpected Message. Iity tnal a cavaIrT pafro, had left
; f'uehuta Ranch today for Mababl to
Investigate the rumor, while another
WASHINGTON. May 24. -V au detachment was sent to reinforce the
tlioritative forecast of the proposals ; NaiTwarl garrison,
to be made by General Carratua In; ... Victim Crucified.
1 Arrival fmm th mith fitt fliat
. . nis new note naa reacnea omc.ais nere the of a ma, presuniabIv a
Bodies of Ten Fallen Soldiers ,onli;ht' nJ whlle 80018 apprehens?jn Mexican, was discovered late last
D. . l p was apparent mat us tenor m:ght not near me onerman nancn. a
lSinterrea rrOm;b entirelv aatisfartoir. the eeneral.few miles south of Moctezuma. The
Trucks feeling was one of confidence that it t'jrpse was horribly mutilated and had
would open the way IV a definite been crucified, tbe bands and feet be
agreement for continued cooperation ' ing nailed to a large plank. Th
i . w. . lof American and de facto forces In plank then had' been placed In such
(By Review Leased wire.) jthft Rursuit .jf bandits in northern conspicuous position that no one
I COLUMBUS N M May 24 A Mexico. passing along the ijad in daytime
. , ', . '.,.' Recent reports from Special Agent could avoid seeing it. This outrage
; truck train was prepared here tonight i Rodserg at Mexic0 City have lndi ated is typical of Indian wariare and is
i to leave for the south carrying mena rowinir friendliness toward the attributed by many to aqirls.
(By Review Leased wire.
Will Be
Graves in Mexico,
WUl Bring Them.
to disinter the bodies of American sol I United Stales and have led the state
1 department to hope the new com-
diers killed in clashes with the Mexi-
! municat.'jn would suggest a resump-
debouch
tempts of the Germans to
from the village.
. Fighting Furious
The fighting around Fort Douamont
was furious, the Germans launching
attack after attack against the fort.
le-i'ployinR among others two fresh di
I visions of Bavarians. Several times
Bne lhe attacks were put down with heavy i tomorrow. The first regiment to go
losses, dui nnauy me uermans sue-: win ne tne second Texas, with head-
the report but It was indicated at his and Mrs. Wilson returned from New
headquarters that he had replied to York shortly after midnight after at
the department's refusal by a request tending the wedding there of Dr. Cary
that more guard troops be sent to him 1 T. Grayson and Miss, Alice Gertrude
The guard troops now in camp here Gordon,
will start moving toward the border '
fid kind tO her -"IlTU 1,1 nw-ui'J'"h m- p"1,, , t... ui jiiupun.- at un,.n.Tinr. J Ills tllll U-
vamaee wnicn iney naa
He was gentleman an
she said, and they struck up a fast
FAIRBANKS IS BOOMED
FOR CHICAGO CONVENTION
CHICAGO. May 24. Charles W.
virtually j followed by a regiment moving Satur-1 Fairbanks' presidential boom was
friendship. Waite was Interested in
h?r voice, and later inquired the name
of her vocal instructor.
He Would Sing.
"He said he wuld like to take
vocal lessons himself," she added,
"and I introduced him to my teacher."
Mrs. Horton then told how she and
held since the commencement of the day to Eagle Pass and two days later broueht to hicapo today by Jas. P.
Verdun offensive until the French
drove them out several days ago. The
French still retain the immediate ap
proach to the fort.
Italians Routed
On the Austro-Italian front the Aus
trian from the Lake Garda region to
another regiment will enter
Brownsville district.
(Conttnued on Page Five.)
the Goodrich, national committeeman and
Republican nominee for governor of
Indiana.
V lit- A . 1. 1 V. . n
ion uouuits aim uiiiik lanii unit iyi , -
Americar soil. i covering the operatAins of the Ameri-
Whi'e no accurate list cf the American expeditionary force,
u-an troopers buried in Mexico was! Mr- Kodgera' dispatches have said
., . .... ' . ... . .General Obregon's report of the con-
t.,..w.c u.-.. ...... tn., -u.uv.... erence on the t.jrder witn
Iieved that the total would not exceed i srott baa made a stron
ten. The train leaving tomorrow wiIljon officials of the de facto government
g'jod
m in '1
po to the field base near Xamiquipa j nd had convinced
fitr . irwrrimtinna anrl ihon nrnrMi ' Dltd States W88
south under escort to the temporary , operations on Mexican soil
resting places or the soldiers. Rumors that General Carranza In
A lengthy message in code was . some form might renew his request
lrh, lMeH from Ma ior General Fred- '. he withdrawal of the expedition
. . , . . (were given credence, however,
erica runsmn to uenera j. j rersn-, some offieial!1.
ing today. While authorities here de-j Situation Grave
clired to discuss the dispatch, it was : I nnffi,.,al ,rtvic,, havp "reflected
Yaqui Valley Captured.
General Rafael Kstrada. commander
of the tr.ops of the de facto govern
ment in the Yaqui River Valley, ar
rived in Agua Prieta tonight by auto
mobile from Naco. Sonora. He re
ported to General P. Elias Calles.
military governor of Sonora. that the
General Ind'an headquarters In the Yaqui val-
impression leT have been, captured: that the
inoians nan been driven trom all
ihem that the,,nelr strongnoms. wnu-n have been
artine in ajod I sl-Jnc,v garnsoncu. ineir women.
by
said that it held instructions to Gener
al Pershing as to the disposition
his troops in certain eventualities.
of
Waite' had studied modern languages ' ,ie v Seana district are keeping
and music together, for which Waite 1
"insisted on pavine" and finally of the
rental of the studio.
Mrs. Roderers did not anpear to be
concerned about Mrs. HJrton's ex
planation as to her relations with
Waite. further than to establish the
fact that thev studied together and
eneaeed the "studio" under the name
of "Mr. and Mr Walters."
On cross examination Mr. Deuel
asVed Mrs. Horton
no their violent offensive against the
Italians. Driven across their border
southeast of Trent, the Italians are
endeavoring to hold a fortified line
from Asiago to Arlero and the height
east of the Val d'Assa. . Rome admits
that in effecting their retreat across
the border the Italians dest roved ar
tillery which it was impossible
withdraw.
Peace Talk Tabooed.
As an outgrowth of recent talk of
Visions of Riches In Banditry Turn Mexican Lieutenant Into
Hounded Fugitive. Many Such Careers Near U. S. Expedition
i faith and had no ulterior motive in 'mi'uren ana old men haMe been made
prisoners, wniw me warriors mere
compelled to scatter in small bands.
The greater part of the broncho
Yaqui warrjrs are reported to be
making their way into Chihuahua,
j However. General Ksirada says that
.many have come northward- toward
the United States.
Enter U. S. to Work,
i Ives G. Lelevier. de facto iViisul
jhere. stated today that he had official
) notification of at least three of the
, grave diplomatic situation in Mexico
. due to labor and "other economic dif
! ferences and to the method of the
revolutionary parties. It has been
suggested that under the circum
(By Review Leased Wire) "j
FIELD HEADQUARTERS. May 20
(by motor trurk to Columbus, N. M.,
May 24.) Alamo Antevideos, one
week kn0 8 lieutenant in the Carran
"Your relations with the defendant inesce. Sir Edwsrd Grey has reiterated
were purely platonic, were they not?"
"They were," the witness answered.
"When did yon eo to the-apartment
with the defendant?"
"Usually between ftnr and five
o'clock in the afternoon."
"What was his demeanor?"
"He was always gentlemanly and
kind."
When Unaound.
"rH ho ever appear to be mentally
unsound?"
vP when T pisvnd or sang."
"Describe tils actions"
Cried When She Sana.
"TThv. he uld crv li'' child."
"At other tlme how did h art "
"Verv hovtsh. He was always bright
nnrf .lterfil."
'T(I ha e"r poww-t n von Ml
H fe'in with resnect his etlo"
what vmi wr p'avine th d'spO or
sinin"
Continued on Tage Five)
In. the House of Commons that the
time is not vet ripe for peace. It is
the dutv of diplomacy to maintain the
solidarity of the Entente allies he said
until a stage of the war had been
reached where the prospect of main
taining an enduring peace would be
with the allies.
U. S. Note On Way
The American note to Great Britain
and France reiterating, though more
strongly than the previous note, the
government's protests against the
seizure and detention of legitimate
mail matter bound to and from the
TInited States, has been handed to the
British and French ambassadors at
Washington.
to m army, was tonight a lonely lugitive
example of mushroom rapidity with
which bandits are springing up all a
bout the now inactive advance troops
of the Villa punitive expedition.
Antedideos' career was shorter than
most of them. Except for speedy ter
mination, this young man's record, J
his motives, his adventures and his
opportunities were characteristic of
most of these newly declared bandits. I
The expeditionary forces have been
The "Free" Life.
"Whv should we remain soldiers,
when by moving into the mountains
we can become bandits, travelling
when we like and where we wish and
eating always of the best and taking
our pick of wives if we so desire.
There was more of the same order
of persuasion but the portions relal
peeled, bnd not yet been received.
Ing to easily won food, leisure and ' too great a liking for good American
wives were the lending Inducements J rations, which -danioened their desire
to ca'ch the fancy oi the rank and
file of the incipient young bad man.
Turn Bandit
Here the lieutenant presented himself j rpnse or lead to serious consequences
as an ally. He was welcomed with
rations and a note of introduction to:
the conmander of the next American :
ra" p along the line. Elated he tried
his daring scheme upon the next'
camn. hut this was his undoing. Them
in the first plnce. it gave his followers
bands crossing the internat.'jnal bor
stances the de facto government u"r ln ln Auar oi oonoia
might fear action that might come at and ootalaing work in Ansona mining
recession from the demand for with- camps. Many are now Rcated in a
drawal. There are no indications that settlement known as Pueblo C.uad
a renewed demand for withdrawal luP'. a '' 8iutn ot Uhoenix. he
vnnlil niAst wtth lmmaHlnt0 anrilllon- Said.
GARRETSON HEADS CONDUCTORS
ST. LOUIS. May 24. A. B. Garret
son was reelected president of the.
Order of Railway Conductors of Am
erica tonight without opposition.
Eight or ten of Antevideos' follow
ers adopted the bandit career with
their lieutenant. Their first expedi
tion was to lure three girls to aceom-
Finds no Yaquis.
unless is was backed by an order for me- consul siaieu mai uenerai
hostilities against the American rJr-! Calles has sent sauting parties all
ces. This latter possibility, while It OVfr lhe northern P1 of Sonora and
has been taken Into consideration ln.na8 located no aquls except at
all of General Funston's military Sierra Acon.hi. rn the Sonora Iti.er.
i,n.. i. nni recanted nerionslv Of- of Cananea. This band.
ncials'were not disturbed by border whose numerical strength Is not be-
tie luru-
gathering
In fWhl r.rini.w.. " V'nrthermiira II - r lha ,.r,l..i-. tnr .provisions. ppurrillll lu amir B
made him an ohiect of xusniclon I-! numurtilra nneratlnna issued after stand.
mong the real Vlllistas. ! the S(Wt-Obregon conference. i Genera Estrada will, it Is reported
Oat Due Not Known. i or i-eievier. uisruss new man oi
i At General farranza's embassy here campaign, desiuned to meet the con-
nciais were noi umiuiueu uv uuiui-i . . , .,
reports that the defacto troops were l'ved to be large, is said to
moving northward in force, taking it 'ln j'1' sti'jngly and g
as a probable result of the orders for provisions, apparemiy
keeping inactive pending the outcome ; pany them. After a few days camp-
of conferences between Washington . ing in the mountains, food ran out,
and Mexico City and this has furnish-' whereupon all except five of the lieu
ed opportunity to the vicious to ride , tenant's men stole out of camp after
the hills by day and ln the towns by dark, bandonini banditry,
right with sone IniDiinity. Just how' Welcomed Bv U. S. Troopers
strong or how extensive the fly-by-j With his handful of followers. An
nlcht banditry may become Is nor yei i tevideos searched in vain for habita
known. I lions so poorly guarded that he could
Antevideos started out a week ago. ' enter them with safety. Thereupon
with fifteen men of a command of the bandits conceived and effected an
Co'onel Domineuez. csrrvine ordrs
to procure corn and nursing a grudge,
at a reprimand from a superior officer
When safety out of eamn he made a
speech t0 his men of the following import:
idea wh'ch in is daring seemed to
r'xmp his as possessing the qualifica
tions of real leadership. With his fol
lowers h rode boldly Into an Ameri
can camp, where he was known and
I where news of his defection, as he ex
Loses in Clash.
From the serond American camp
two nifhts ago. he rode with his tuen
to the little ranch of Delicios.
lend a dance; this party was enliv
ened with "Mich s'otat, a raw. potent
cactus drink. In the midst of dance,
a nnrtv of real Villistas. or so they
called themselves, rode into the ranch.
When he'r thirst for adventure had
been satisfied, two of Antevideos' men
were killed and the other three went
away, headed for the quickest fly Into
civil life.
Alon On The Desert
The last seen of Antevideos was to
day when an employe of an American
ranch near here saw him riding alone
and asked "where is you army, Mr.
General?"
nrf.d ignorance a to the ditions wnicn nave arisen as a resun
.... ' , ,K- n,huM .iota "if the scattering of the Indians. This
lo HI i .. . .. r will InfluriA th parr Unn nv nf atiiall
' oi its delivery. - - -
! Crept Poor towns In the northern part of the
Further reports of disturbed econ- state and maintaining cavalry patrols
lomlc conditions In Mexico reached the on all roads rr tne purpose of rein
state department today. Crops were,
said to be In p'.wr condition in many
sections and spring planting below
normal. The defacto government. It
was reported, had crushed the rail
way strike In most districts by sub
jecting railroad workmen to military
rule and making them liable tt court
martial for refusal to work.
30 Americana in Yucatan
A dispatch from Salt ilia
Carranza government had
ning down anv
their way north.
Yaquis who nVVe
bandit chief Tobias Elizohdo. West
c'.iast conditions were reported quiet
and in the Yaqui Valley are said to
be 'satisfactory". Further reports re
garding the number of Americana ir
Mexico, recently ordered by the state
said the I department, stated tnat there are
repotted thirty in the state of Yucatan, gather-
the killing May 5 at Zaragoza. of the ed at Progreso and Merida.
