av iS4Ig if Jill n
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT. THURSDAY. MAY 25, 19 1G.
NUMBER 48.
M. E. BISHOPS
ARE ASSIGNED
SUNDAY FOR
WAR SUFFERERS
HAPPENINGS II
THE STATE OF
VERMONT
GCOiElIiOl
mo! AT ED
OF MEi'S CLUBS
100,000 Clergymen Asked to
Make May 28 Day for Spe
cial Gifts for 2.5,OOOr
000 Victims.
Hiding al Hacienda, Mimbrera,
Curing His Wounds, Accord
ing to Late Reliable
Report.
Large Number of Changes Have
Been Made to Become Ef
fective at End of Con
ference. TERRIFIC BATTLE
GALLED 1
E60TIH FOR
GERMANS RETAKE
D0UAU1NT AFTER
0 ORDER
PEACE IMPOSSIBLE
AT PRESENT STAGE
Speech by Sir Edward Grey in
Commons Reiterates That the
Position or the Allies Is in No
Way Changed.
REPLIES TO PUNSONBY
After Laller
Attacking
English
Adopted the
As Platform.
Declares in Speech
Government That
Ministers Have
American Press
Saratoga Springs, N. V., M.i 21. The
twcnty-tlve bishops of the .Mhodlsl
Kplscopal C'liilirli crc assigned In their
new episcopal residences nt 11 special meet
ing (if the episcopal eommlltco of tin-
gCIIOIIll lOlltl'l'ClH'K. tll-tllght. Although tlio
assignments will not ! announced tn tho
ooufi renco until Intel In tile Week It ji
learned that Imp number nf changes
haw boon mmlp tn ho effective ill the pirl
nt Hip ennfon tice, nfler being rutlthd by
tlip delogati s.
The M-ViMi lilshops who wcie clei to.l
Inst wool; leoelvod t Iilmi- assignments:
Thomas Nicholson, who lias boon "nr
tary nf tlip church lionlil of education, to
Chh iikd, III.; Adnu V. Leonard (if
Sent tie. WuhIi., t(i Sim Francisco; Matt
S. 1 i HKltcH of Pasadena, Oil., to Pott
lnml; Franklin Hamilton nf V.ilii iik t nn,
D. . to Flushing, 1'n.: Cluiilos It.
-Mitchell (if Chicago, to Si. Paul. Minn.;
F. Oldbutn (if X. w York, tn
Ayres, South Ainoi Irn, and
Welch of Ohio, to Seoul, Korea.
William
Buenos
Mcrbort
TO FORM AERO CLUB.
London, May 21. Tn iui Impromptu
Tpeech In the House of Ciiinmiins to
Mgllt on the (itostion of pence and the
propriety of "cmplo lug the Ainei lean
in ess as a platform." subjects tinox
Jiectedly raised by Arthiit Punsoiiby.
libe'iil member for Stirling. Seotland,
In a strong addiess attacking the rov
i niucit for allowing diplomatic
Kiuette to stand ill the way of pos- j
h blr peace pour purlers, Kir ICdward
I'ort Captured under a Rain of ,
Shot and Shell Which Inflicts
Enormous Losses Several
Attacks Before Success.
FRENCH RETAIN APPROACH
Austrians Continue Their Vio
lent Offensive, Driving Italians
across Their Border Vienna
Reports Capture or 2.",0()0 Of
ficers and Men.
Ne.v York, Miiv 24. The federal council
of the liiuiiiiis of Christ in Amm I"i
announced to-day thn It had sent an
appeal to IOO.iW Protectant eloigymeu
asking that net Simd.iy be made a day
of special gifts for the 23,000,0 ( wir
sufferers In Km op'1. F.uiyonc is urged
to contribute at least "itc day's incoin .
Attention Is dlle led to the fact that till"
enmilrv has glioi, ilms f n only wh.U
fnriespnml- to about cents a person
or one dol'iu for radi oi the .snffi ro: s.
The npp.nl "lis Ictied bv William II
Tuft, Alton II I'nl'e.'. S.'th Low mil
Hainllton Holt
REPUBLICANS "MEET" FRIMY
Senntor l.uvt renco . Iierninii nt' f 1 1 1
not ( dllross Mute ( mi rut Inn
N nines Mentioned for .National
Delegates.
Gro, the British foreign secretaiy,
n ide all lili as that peace negotiations
v pit pos-il le at tlio present stage and
Jilaillly re i tei. i toil that the position of
the allies was in no way changed.
Wallace lliitclieliler Assigned to Atlu
lion .Siiiiiiilron, (iii crnor's lsan,l.
Ilpthel, May 21 - .Major Wallace P.iiton
elder has been assigned to the aviation
Miuadron on Goernnr's li-lancl. New York
liarlior, headipinn ers of the eastern de
partment, t'nltcd States army, under tln Verdun
(ommaiid of Major-Genera! I.intiard
Wood, tlio ranking oltlecr of the army
General Wood was Major Ruteholder's
Sir 15dward ! (land that It was im
possible to consider terms of ponce with
out a pn vlo is anieeinellt between the
J'lltentc alHis. 1'iiither, he expressed the
lei Ided opinion that the hostilities had
not yet li ached n i-taye where It was
possible to talk of pi ace, especially as
fie Oermnn public was constantly belnK
"fed wit ii lies" by their ministers.
Mr Poiisonby's lefcience to the use of
the American pio.su as u "platform" w.ia
the outKrowth of a recent interview with
Sir Kward lirey. Kir lldward in replying
t i this attack, while admlttlnt? that itn
jiortant di-( losures of policy oupht tlrst
to be mndt to Parliament, awucd that a
cilsls iiil?ht ailse durlm; the war when
in Idpiatlon of etliiuctto should not bo
n'l iweil to stand In the way. Ho icon
tended tl it since (icniian statesmen con
Miintlj were sIvIiik Interviews and state
JiiPiits to tho American press, It would
Ik mere pedantry which would hinder
Hrltlsh statesmen from coimterlnc these
Untements In the Interests of their own
founm
HUGHES IDEAL MAN,
SAYS GOV. WHITMAN
n Popular I linlcc nf I lie I'eople, Cuv
iTiior AibN.
New Vork May 21. linv. f'harles P.
1 itmnn, who came to New York to-day
to speak nt the Federation of Women's
f ibs convention, held a conference soon
after hi arilvnl with Oscar H. .Straus,
chairman of 'Hie public scr ice commis
sion Two other members of the com
mission, William Hayward and Charles
P Hervey, also called on the '.lovernor.
'halrinan Straus refused to discuss
t' e confpieiice, but (iovernor Whitman
would not deny that tin; political situa
tion In the .State was thorouuhly can
vassed The ( Iovernor intimated that
be expeded to confer witb Frederick
C Timer, .halrman of the republican
j State (tunmlttee. to-morrow and said ho
had an appointment with Frank H.
Hltchco"k to discuss the cnnipalKn for
t' e nomination of Justice Charles I
HiirIiok for the republican nomination
for president. Tho (lovernor expressed
himself as more certain than ever that
Justhe llUKhes would be the successful
rnnilldatc at the Chicago conention
ficxt month.
"I Inches Is the man. the Ideal man
for the nomination by the republicans,
said tho (invenior. "I have been talk
ing up-State a Kreat deal nf late and I
nm more than ever persuaded that he
will be the nominee and the popular
choice of tho people."
'tinrlcs Wynne of Morctoiin Acci.ill-
Icil llnreli Term llnillnu.
Montpelier, May 21. Charles Wvone
of Moretown was acquitted of the
chaifjo of arson by a Jury In Washing
ton county court this afternoon and
was discharged. He
several months alio, It
that he was rosponslble for a
which destroyed farm buildings
fall in Hast Moretown, and has
unfilled in Jail unable to secure
The Jurors wero excused for the
following the verdict, subject to call '
by the court, but aside from some !
hancer.N matters and divorce suits the i
March term Is completed. I
There were 1 1 civil cases tried by I
jury ami but n single State case. One
Ivil case, Phelps against Utley. ,
illenatlon of wife's affections, took i
over a week for trial, and the court i
has hoard over a seme of divorce mat-i
tors, several of tho cases being con- '
tested. Final adjournment will proba- I
bly be taken Friday night,
ft
WILL MEET JUNE 2.
Albans District Home .UIxNloimr
Society to Meet lit Hlclifnril.
Iticlifoid. .May 21. Tho annual mectlna
r,f in.. St. Albans iJi.itrUl Homo Mis
Blonarv society will be held hero Friday
Juno i. The meeting will open nt 9:30 In
tl u mornlnir with a consecration servic
roridudcd by Mrs- J, 11. Wallace, ot Ulch
fnr.i ileum ts of ofllcois of nuxlllarlos
etc . wi'l bo given, followed by the ap.
polntir.i nt of committees. Mrs. Stead
n-iirn iii in of MontcoiiUii'j will speak on
l p incmbeiHhlp campnlsn, Hiwl Mrs. TJ. F.
r r en or v.tst Fninklln will discuss "Our
I Itnrature."
In the afternoon .It 1:30 o'clock tlio fol
b.ivli.g urogram will ho given: Prayer
n id nromlPO servlco, Mrs. It. II. Place,
p usrv Junction: roport of nominating
...miniiimn and election of officers: "Ths
TJnlr.tlnn of Temperance to Homo Mission
nrv work." Anna Chaplin, Knoshurg
I. ills man drill. Queen Fsthora; music,
i .iir. .unriette. ltlchforip '"What We
Are Doing." Grace. Horaback. Canaan,
f mill nur OriDortunltlos and How to
Mod Them," Mrs. Amy M. AnderHon. St,
tihims' "M'arre MIsslonB," Mrs. A. II
ebl). Falrlee; children's hour.
The P.ev, D. (',. Ouost of Hlehford will
cwd a prniso sorvlce In the ovonlnsr at
7:M with an arttlrcsi by Orace Jtora
tack of Canaan. Conn.
(Ki.RnnATR I'UArn cicntknahy.
Clinton, N. V May 21. In eommnm
.,.ti.ii of 100 years' pcaco botweon
i.,ent rHItaln and tho United States,
H imlltoii CoIIcko and Itobcrtson Col
1 -e of Altinrt.n Canada, to-day ex
iingod national flags. President M
n wtrvkor of Hamilton declared that
t li, net afforded tin object lesson
I ( iiaMidiiess as our unfortified north
e p Inrder linn for a oentury been
p,cdi,o of livo and peace.
c i llrst colonel IS years ago. .
The Imiiortance of thn aviation service
has been forcibly Illustrated during the
past two yuars In the great war in Ku
lope. The aviation corps Is called "tin.
eyes of tho tinny." Whoa fjeneral Per
shing's troops went Into Mexico hist
March they had only 12 aeroplanes, and I ill visions
inside of a week 1" ot these were worth
less junk, and the other two were imubo'
get over the mountains where Villa
as said to be. The French army has more
men In its aviation corps than there are
men in the entlremoblle I'nlted States
irmy.
Major Iiatchelder will organize at once
tho Aero Club of Vermont. All patriotic
persons who are Interested In the scionce
aeronautics or In nvlatlnn. and who
wish to help Vermont do her share of the
work of preparedness for national de
fence in time of need, mty apply t" Ma lor
Wallne.. Hatehelder, Oftlco R7J, 3-J l.lhertv
Ftreot, New York city, or address Major
Wallace Hatchelder, euro Aoio Club ot
America, Madlsnn avenue and 41m stteet,
New York city.
NOT GUILTY OF ARSON.
was arrested miuoriai
belntr alloiroil , "here In
London, May 21. Tinier a lulu of
shot and shell which Indicted enormous
losses, the Germans have again taken
Fort I ii i ii ; 1 1; in 1 1 n t . northeast of Verdun,
from the French. Am if somewhat to
even the score, however, the French In
spirited counter attacks northwest of
eeapturcd fiom the Germans
trenches on the southern outskirts of
tile village of I'umieres, which the
Germans had occupied In the late light
ing and also stopped with their artil
lery several attempts of tliu Germans
to debouch from the village.
The lighting around Fort Douaiimotit
was furious, the Germans launching
attack .after attack against the fort,
employing among others two fresh
f li-ivarlans. Several times
the attacks were put down with heavy
losses, but llli'i'lv the Germans suc
ceeded in rt occupying; the point of
vantage which they had held virtually
since the commencement of the Ver
dun offensive until the French drove
them out several days ago. The French
still retain the immediate approach to
the front.
On the Austro-ttultan front, the Aus
trians from the Lake (inrda legion t.i
the Val Siigana district ate keeping up
their violent offensive against the
Italians. Driven across their border south
east of Trent the Italians are einli a vorln
to hold a foitilied line from Asiago to
Aislero and the heights east of th. A al
D'Assa, but the Auslrlais report thai
they have captured over 25.111 olllcers and
men, 2T.1 cannon, pn machine guns and 'n
bomb tbroweis. Home admits that in
effecting their retreat across the liordi r
the Italians destroveil artillery which it
huh impossible to withdraw.
The usual lighting Is In progress alon
the Itusslau front between the Teuton c
allies and the Huslans, and In Asiatic
Turkey between the Turks and the Rus
sians and the HrltMi and Turks. No
change in tin- situation any
these several war theatres has
Local Items of Interest from
AH Parts of the Green Moun
tain State Condensed So That
He Who Runs May Read.
THE NEWS BY COUNTIES
From the Island in the Lake to
the Passumpsic, Along Otter
Creek and Shores of White
River. Covered by Our Special
Correspondents.
chihuahua, Mex., la LI Piifo, May 21.--Villa
Is hiding rt Hacienda IMImtuora,
about 125 miles from Jimenez, curing his
wounds according to a icport leeched lij
General Ignnclo ftnmoq at Jimenez, ami
sent here. General linmos say.-' his Infor
mi.tlou comes fiom reliable source.-,
Nine Thousand Delegates, Al
ternates and Visitors Crowd
the Seventh Regiment Armory
in New York.
.Montpelier. Mis 21. The republican
State convention which nu ets here Fri
day to elect delegates to the national con
vention to be held at chkago, will be
addressed by I'nlted States Sutiator Law
lento Y. Klnrmau of Illinois. Senator
Sheinian will dash by auto from Kutland
to this city, Co nuns. He : caks in Now
York to-morrow evening and will reach
Holland Frldav morning, and will cross
the State from there.
Although Senator Shot man is a presi
dential candidate, his coining to Ver
mont has no political significance, as It
Is taken for granted that Vermont re
publicans favor Hughes.
Frank L. Hown of Pennington, former
lieutenant-governor, will ho chairman of
the convention. Judge Charles II. Darling,
former assistant tecretnry of the navy,
wll' be chairman of the committee on
t es dutlons.
Among those ir.untloiRd for delegates
ate Theodoic N. Villi of Lyndonvllle.
Senator Fled II. Htbbltt of Hollows l'.illr..
ex-flov. George I!. Prnuty of New pint,
Hugh .7. M. Jonns of Montpelier, ecre
tary of State Guy W. Pulley of L'sox
Junction, Frank C. lartildge of Proctor,
Collins M. Giave.s of Ib iinlngton, CuitH
K, Finery of Newport, George F.. Moodv
of Watoibury, Suuitor Henry T, Ilrown
of Ludlow and John T. i lushni'in of St.
Alhans.
SIGi
!4 RETIRE
F
I RE
b, the death of his father, William M.
Jackson, has returned to Spt Inglleht.
i ass. Mr. and Mrs. Clarrnrn A. Phillip1,
w'no have spent the past winter and
sMtng at Daytonn, Kin., where they have
a home, nic now nt nulland, whore they
me visiting their daughter, Mrs. W. II.
Hotsford. They will leinin to town soon.
-Mrs. Willis N. endy Is In New York to
attend the graduation of her daughter.
Miss Kllza Cudv, who will finish a three
years' course of training at the llanno-
man hospital. Mrs, C. K. Harris has
gone to Proctor, w I ore she visiting at
the homo of Mr. and Mrs. ('hallos Dodge.
A pretty wedding took place at St.
Mary's Catholic Church at olifht o'clock
Tuesday morning, when Miss Zella
Hlalse, daughter ot Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
plnlse of Cornwall, was united in mar
iIiiro to James D'Algnou of LuUo
Placid, N, V.. by Father Loanord, pas
tor of tho church. .Miss Flizaboth Wells
nf Lake 1'lneld, N. Y., was bridesmaid
and Joseph Hlalse, a brother of the
In Ide, was 1est mini. There was a lurgo
attendance of lolathes and friends.
Mr. and Mrs. D'Aviitnon left Immedi
ately for pans unknown on their wed
ding trip, after wbh h they will reside
In Iiko Placid, N. Y. Tho unofficial
call for a special town meeting to con
sider the matter of giving tho Middle
bury Marble company a penult to run
its traction engine between the quarry
and the fi eight depot In the village has
boon withdrawn and thn selectmen have
given tho Marble company pormlssluu
Myers, assistant. Mis.lto run the tractor for .".0 days, during
ind domestic si icnce, is which time Its working may be observeu
ADDIS0HG0UHTY
MIDDLEBURY.
GOH. MM SPEAKS
'No Door of Opportunity Closed
to Women," He Says Of 123
Occupations "Weaker Sex"
Labors in All but Five or Ten,
lie Declares.
1 1
fil e i '" oil repol led.
last I Ah ini outgrowth of recent tall; of
been l't'uee, Sir LdWiird Grey has reiterated ,
hall. I In tb House of Commons that the i
term I Glue Is not yet ripe for pence. It was
NOTE IS SENT TO
ENGLAND AND FRANCE
the duty of diplomacy to maintain the
solidarity of the entente allies, be said i
until a stage of the war had been ,
reached whole the prospect of main
taining an enduring peace would be.
with the allies.
The American note to (ireat Ililtaini
and France reiterating, though morel
strongly than in the piovious note, the.
government's piotests against the I
seizure and detention of legitimate :
mall matter bound to and fiom the
I'nlted States has been handed to the
Hrltlhh and French ambassadors at
Washington.
Rishops Hamilton and Hartzell
Also Affected by the Age
Limit Rule Other Con
ference News.
TAX HETTY ON $112,000.
Ilcncii Protest nuiilnst Itritlnli Treat
ment of Venlral MiiIIm.
Washington, May 21,- Identical notes re
newing the protest ot tho Fnlted States
against Hiitlsh treatment of neutral malls
on the high seas wore handed to the Brit
ish and Flench ambassadors to-day by
Acting Seciotary Polk of tho stato de
partment. The documents wero signed
iby Secretaiy Lansing at his home, where
ho has boon 111 several days.
The I'nlted States reiterates In more
vigorous terms Its objection to the seiz
ure and detention of legitimate mall mat
tor hound to and from the United States,
and Insists, particularly that Great Ilrlt
aln stop the practice of seizing vessels on
tho high seas and taking them Into port
to subject mail aboard to local legula
tlons. Tho note was given to tho icprcsonta
tlves of both Frnnce and Great Hrltaln
Hec,-iuso Franco formally concurred In the
Hrltlsh memorandum replying to tho llrst
American protest. It probab'y will be
made public Saturday In Ixmdon, Paris
and Wushlngton by agreement.
Itlchcst Woman In World nsomsciI for
Ilcllims I'lillx Property,
Hollows Falls, Mav 21.- The listers have
Clulslied their work for the town of
Hockinghnm. Tho largest taxpayer Is the
International Paper company, which pays
on a valuation of t?jtK
Hetty Green Is the largest Individual
taxpayer. Sho Is assessed on a valua
tion of $U2.0iJ0. Of this, tl:.70 Is for her
homo on Church street and the remaining
SHO.OoO is personal property.
By paying her taxes here, where she
rctnltiH her resldetu i , tho richest woman
In tho world escapes taxation In New
Vork.
WILSONS CHIEF GUESTS
AT GRAYSON WEDDING
Saratoga Springs, N. V., May 21. Ulshop
j;arl Cranston of Washington. D C SI
years old. senior bishop of the church,
who lutlies this jear under tho age limit,
presided over tho Methodist general con
fluence for the last time to-day. lilshops
John W. Hamilton of Hoston, Mass., and
Joseph C. Hartzell of Africa, who are
also affected by the same rule, Joined with
him In another reriuest that their retire
ment be made effective at once Iho
necessary legal action probably will be
taken in n few days.
At the leanest of W. li. Wcihlorspoon
of Washington, D. ('., a resolution was
adopted asking tho enactment of a Sun
day icst law for the district of Cuba.
For the purpose of i educing the num
ber of appeals that are made to the
churches In behalf of the many depart
ments of tho domination, an Intor-ohiii oh
conference was authorized In which every
board will bo represented. After an in
vestigation of tho problems tho confer
ence will repot t In KKM.
A more systematic supervision of tho
homo mission Hold, with the control con
trallzed In one head Is provided In i
new plan for administration of this
branch of the activities of the Metho
(list Lpiseopal Church whb h was adopt
ed to-day. department superintendents
will ho In cliaiRo of special work In
evangelism In the cities, rural communi
ties, the froiitlois ami church extension
Addison Co. Court Opens June G.
Mlddlobury, May 24, Tho county of
flclals have drawn tho following; Ust
of petit Jurors to survo at tho June
term of tho Addison county court,
which convenes here on Tuesday, Juno
C: Addison, Homer Hostwick, William
DommliiKl llrldport, J. C. S. Hamilton,
Frank H. Towner; Hrlstol, Lewis O.
Haiti, Fred P. Smith; Cornwall, Benja
min I, Hoardman, Homer S. Cobb; For
lisburg, Martin F. Allen, Austin T.
Month; Goshen, 11. S. Hayes; Granville,
John It. Vinton; Hancock, It. 1). Claf
lln; 1olceBter, G. W. Johnson; Lincoln,
Charles C. Clark, Sr I). S. Day; Mld
dlobury, Georgu Sliambo, Alson Me
Qulvey; Monkton, A. M, Hussoll, C, II.
Farr; New Haven, George P. Iarrow,
Hansom Hillings; Orwoll, C. II. Lewis,
W A. Jennings; Panton, K. J. Hrlstol;
Jllptnn, Timothy Hillings; Salisbury,
W. J. Whitney; Shoroham, Charles It,
Wlthorall, Rieliard Prohlo; Starksboro,
I-Yank C Smith, Newell StokcH; Ver
gennes, Georgo It. Thome, J. Honry
Morris; Wiilthani, Fred Muhlfroldol;
WoyliiidKe, U, li, Child; WhitlnK, John
ALk s.
While House Ph nIcIiiii and MU (inr
Ion Married In .Von Vork.
Now iork, .May 2 1, President and
Mrs. Wilson were the chief guests to
day at the wedding of Dr. Cary T.
Grayson, the White lloiiho physician
and Miss Alice Gertrudo Gordon ot
Washington and Now Yorlt, in the
chapel of St. George's Church. The
President came hoie especially for tho
ceremony and loft hern shortly after
ward for Washington.
The rPesldont and his wife, accom
panied by Secretary and Mrs. McAdoo,
Miss Helen Wnodrow Hones, tho Presi
dent's cousin, Charles It. Crane of
Chicago, and John Ilandolph Uolllng,
a brother of Mrs. Wilson, arrived at
tho chapel piomptly at four o'clock
and tho ceremony was at onco begun,
.Mr. and Mrs. Wilson weie ushered to
the front pew of tho chape, which was
solidly banked with white flowers.
When the couple loft the Flournoy
residence, both tho President and his
wife Joined other guests in showering
them with confetti fiom second story
windows. Thn President laughed
heartily when a white slippor thrown
by ono of tho guests landed on top ot
their departing aiitomobllo and stayed
there.
President Wilson and his party left
for Washington at fi:02 o'clock.
On every shopping list, tho iid-roadlnK
housewife milked profits In savings.
TRIED TO WRECK TRAIN.
lies,
Pol
Gueniieil from Slate llnxiiltal
lllixIriiotloiiM on Truck.
Montpelier. May 21 -A Pl-yeai-old boy
has confessed, according to rnllroad
otflclals, to anattonipt to wreck tin1
Green Mountain express at Marshllold
last Saturday morning, lie escaped
from the State Hospital for the Insane
nt Watorbury.
lie was described as Harold Johnson,
who was sent to tliu asylum from Wat
orbury. When let out Friday to test
him boloro be was allowed to go homo,
bo ran away, stopped over night In
Fast Montpelier and the next morning
appeared 111 M.arshtield.
Investigation showed tho track to Ini
covered at Intervals with spikes, nuts
and nails. Supt. Arthur A. Stebblna
located tho boy In Marshllold ami lie
confessed, according to railroad offi
cials, that he laid tho obstructions on
tho tracks. Ho was sent back to thu
asylum.
Addison county already has four candi
dates for sherltf to conic before the
September primaries, and there are othei
possible entiles. Tho known candid. Uo.
so far are .Sheriff Ulln A. Smith of Addi
son and Deputy Sheriffs Geoige D. Fall
of Hrlstol, Harry 10. Sanfoid of Corn
wall and Fred H. Rowley of New Haven.
Tie following teachers have been ap
pointed for next year: High school,
Aichb- S. Ilan liuiili. iiiinoip.il; Miss
l-'iancis Warner, assistant; Miss Miildoon,
retained as In ad of tin- coium i cial de
partment; Miss
t'urrigaii. Latin
a graduate of .Mlddlchury ('olios-- and at mid the
present Is toicher at tin- Industrial ' culato ;
school at Vergennes Miss I-'ri eiiian will
have charge of the training departmuit
and Mr. Vlrehow will look after the
manual training lor another yen. 11. L.
Turner has been appointed janitor. The
number of college students teaching has
been limited to 1J and are to be under
the supervision and jurisdiction of
Principal Harrlnian. The pi l.e-speaking
will take plii'-e .Mmdiiy, May In the
town ball and the commencement ex
ercises will be held I'rldny. June Pi. Tho
teachers appointed for the graded school
.ire. (.tilde "i. Susie A. lllmks; grade T,
Julli A. Harry; grade il. Genevieve llal
non, grade .", Catherine Shea; made I,
Agnes 1). Calhoun: grade 3. Carrie K.
Seo'l: grade 2, G. Lena Woods: grade 1.
Curie Lverts; music, Mr Charlotte L.
Sbackctt. Hlshup Coadjutor Ocot?c Y.
Hllss visited St. Stephen's Kplsoopal
t'hunh Sunday and administered con
tinuation to a good-sized class. lie eole
binted Holy Communion at the morning
service. In the evening, lie visited All
Saints' mission in Phoreham, w In t o he
proa-hod and ailminlsteiod coiiMrmntlon.
A pretty wedding took plm e at S-.
Mary's Catholic Church Monday morn
ing at nine o'clock, when Miss Sopliroiila
Narrihono, oldest daughter ot Mi- and
Mis. Frank Nariibone, was united in
learriage to Finnic Impulse, both of Mld
dlobury, by Father Leonard. Miss Amelia
Lmla was bridesmaid and Albert Du-
polso, a brother, was hst man. Mr. and
Mrs. Impulse returned to their home In
the iiouth part of Iho town, where a re
ception was hold in the evening, to which
a large number won- In attendance.. The
young couple received a large number of
presents. Tim big street oiling tank got
into dltlloultles Monday afternoon, when
one tear wheel broke through the plank
ing of the bridge over tlio lallroad on
Main street, Thn wheel sank In eight or
10 inches, but was prevented from going
further by tho axle and stringer beneath.
The machine and load weigh 12.0V) pounds.
Jackscrows w.-ie at onco secured to
raho tho machine out of Its awkward
position M Iss Irene Adams and .Miss
Marjorle Mackenzie have leturned trnm
Hutlaud, where Miss Mackenzie has been
the guest of Miss Adams at the home ot i
the hitter's patents Miss Lathcrlne
Vassaii was given a hlrthd.v
party at the homo of her par
ents, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Vassaii. Mon
day evening In honor of the 13tii anni
versary of her birth, There wore about
20 of her young friends preont. Games
wero played and music was rendered.
Refreshments wero served. Henry Don
nolly, formerly a resident of Middlebnry.
and now n foreman In tho Vermont Mar
ble company's mill at Proctor, was In
town Sunday. According to Mr. Don
nelly the mill which was recently burned
nt lleldens will not bo rebuilt, but the
power and such of the nuichlnerv as Is
usable will bo transfei red to other plums
of tlio company and the gt eater part of
the men, If not all of them, will bo given
positions at once In the company's works
at Hrandon. Ono of the big road olllii'
autos of the Standard Oil company was
put to woik oiling the main roads
of the village 'Monday moi iilug. Airs
high school nines at 3::'.1 o'clock. Mrs
Jennie M. Crosby went Monday to Bur
lington, where an operation was per
formed upon her sister. Mrs. George Gip
soti. Oscar Hicknell, who wns badly in
Juted by a fall last winter, was able to bo
downtown Monday for the first time In
nearly three months. He Is still unite
lame as the lesult of the accident.-J. II.
Dolilnson of Brandon, who has been lu
town for two weeks, engagod In the tun
ing of tlio orgnn of the Congremitloual
church, has completed his work and re
turned to Brandon. Mr and Mrs. Wil
llnin II. Thomas, who have spent the
winter and spring nt their homo In Day-
tona, Flu., have returned und have gone
to Lako Dunmore, whoro they have
opened their summer home, George II
NIW WIKKLF.SH Rl'CORD.
Svdney. New South Wales, May 21, via
Uuidoii Tho American steamship Ven
tura which has Just readied here from
Han Franchico, loportH that she picked
up a wireless message from the station
at Tiickerton, K J-. when 0,) miles dls
taut from that point This In said to bo
a wot Id's record
Chaffee Is building a gnrago al his home
on Washington street airs. O. P. Moore,
who has silent a few weeks with her
laughter, Mrs. Merrill Lane, In New York
,-iiv. has returned and opened her home
on South Pleasant stteet. She was n
coiniianled by her daughter as far as
liortor, where sho will visit her sister,
Mrs. Krnost Severance, for a while, com-
loir to Jlldillebury later to spend the
summer wl'h her mother Dane D Jail;
son, wh w"H called hero two weeks ago
company have a chance to clr
petition in favor of being al
lowed to operate the tractor thioiighout
tho scnt-on under former conditions und
restrictions. At the annual meeting of
tho auxiliary of the Y. M. C. A., held
at thu home of Mrs. Flunk C. Dyer on
South Pleasant street Monday aftoi
lioon, reports of tho officers wero read
and showed that the organization was
In a good condition. The following offi
cers were elected: President, Mrs. John
L. Weeks; vice-presidents, Mrs. Frank
C. Dyer, Mrs. Hoy Wblttlmore, Mrs.
John li. Holds, Mrs. H. B. Hasar; secre
tary, Mrs. I'.iiward Thomas; tiea-surer,
Mrs. Wesley Murdook; press correspond
ent, Mrs. James O. Howarth; program
committee, Mrs. Avery K. Lambert.
Mrs. M. II. I-Mdy. Mrs. Phillip 15. Crane
and Mrs. Allan T. Calhoun; social com
mittee, Mrs. J. n. Ciane, Mrs. Grace
Brown, Mrs. Hernlce Ycaw, Mrs. F.ben
C. Ryder, Mrs. John W. Hammond.
Mrs. George R. Reynolds, Mrs. Frank
C. Gulley and Mrs. Raymond Mo Far
land; decorating committee, Mrs. Karl
15. Frost. Mrs. Howard L. Aveiill, Mis.
Oliver Chllson, Mrs. William L. Hunt
ley. After the meeting a social honr
was spent and refreshments were
served. Stephen A. Doody of the class
of i;ill of M ddlebury College, who
has been sub-master to the prin
cipal of 'he high school at Lit
tle ton, N. II., for several enrs, has
been promoted to principal of the school
In which ho has been for live ear.
He is a son of Mr. and Mrs. John
Doody of this town. William Mollugh
has gone to Ausa'ole Chasm, N. Y.. for
a few days' visit to his sister. Mrs.
Clarence Pago, and family. Helen Stan
ley has returned from a visit to rela
tives and friends in Brandon. D. Forlcy
has gone on a week's business
trip Into Now York State.i'ho lo
cal marble mill was started up
Tuesday morning after a shut-down
of a couple of days, during which time
broken cables woie replaced with new
, ties. Mrs. Jennie M. Ciosby has re
turned fiom Burlington after vWting
her sister, Mrs. George Gipon, at tuc
Mary Fletcher hospital. Mrs. Glpson
was operated upon .ionua
mil went through the operation success
fully.
The committees in charge, Have arranged
. ... , - i. ..i. i i
for Memorial day exercises io no m-m ...
the town hall at two o clock 1 uesoii) .ui
ei noon. Tho members of William P.
Russell Post, No. Ml. G. A. It., and ni
Wllllnni P. Russell CItclo. No. , Lames
..( n. it A it., w meet in ineir nan in
the Dyer block at one o cock. I he exer
cises at the hall will be as follows- Prav-
by the Rev. Roy K. WhlUInuuc; read
ing of the Memo'ial (lav orders oi .loan
A. Ixigan, of the general oirters irom
headquarters, and of tho roll of honor.
by Adjutant William L. cam-; ruuausuc
work by Commander Charles L. outt,
singing of ,-Amorlca," accompanied n
the Mlddlobury baud; recitation, ' Honor
ing tho Last Veteran," Miss Charlotte
Taylor, duet, "Strew Fullest Flowers,"
Miss Claiu Wissell and Olive Barter; reci
tation. "My Grandpa Was a Soldier," Miss
Mary Hlilrodgu; school choruses, "The
Messiah of Nations." and "Our Banner"
from the anvil chorus In Verdi's "II Tro
online". Lincoln's address at Get t sburg,
Fletcher Taylor; solo, "The Flag That
Has Never Known Defeat," Miss Cbua
Wlssell; (imrtette, 'Bravo Hearts, Sleep
On," Mlsssos Kathrvn Dillon, Clara Wls
sell, Olive Barter and Grace Burns; ad
dress of the day. Piesldont John M
Thomas, song, "Our Flag," Misses Dorothy
Walker, Ruth Collins, Ccolle Burns, Fran
ces Bristol, Lsthor Upsteln, Genevlev
Wood, Dorotbv Houllla, Bernlie Barton,
Alice Hajos and Clara Seaiie. "Ills Hut
tons are Marked U. P.," Miss Carrlo Ja
cobs Bond, Cecllo Hums, and the above
chorus of 10 girls, "Tho Song of the
Flag." George Lmerson, Carroll Dyer,
Fletcher Taylor, Stanton IMdy, Roy Bar
tor, Maxon 15ddy, Norton Grady, Hersou
Lambert. The exercises at tho monument
will Include a dirge by the Mlildlehury
band, prayer by tho Rev. D. M. Cnrkran,
D. D., pastor of the Mldillebury Method
ist Church, decoration of graves of un
known soldiers, by Adjutant William L.
Cady, chains, "Cover Over with Beautiful
Flowers," by tho school girls, adross by
Prof. J A. Morgan, and benediction by
Dr Corkrnn The committees having
New York, Mav 21. Nine thousand
delegates, alternates and visitors from a'l
tlio States in the Fnlon and from ( Pa,
Porto Rbn, Alaska and the Phllippt.-.,
llllcd the 7th regiment armory here -night
nt the ilrst general session of the
1.1th biennial convention of the General
Federation of Women's clubs. Mote than
two thousand spectators wero tiin.o,!
away at the doors, of those In the ar
mory ,'ti were men.
The auditorium began to till nt seven
o'clock. An hour later the crowd V
camo so denso that the doors were closed
and police reserves won- called. Flv.j
women were overcome la the crush a. .1
received attention at an emergence hospi
tal at the armory with five doctors and
Pi nui-sts In attendance.
With the arrival of Governor Whit
man and Mrs. Whitman tho conven
tion was formally called to nrftei- V,,
Mrs. Percy V. Penny backer, ntesldent
of the federation. Mrs. Willlri m flrn,ii
Brown, picvldont of the New York
biennial board, which arranged for tha
convention, presided with Mrs. Penny
b.ickor. Miss Margaret Wilson, daugh
ter of the President, occupied the seat
of honor between them.
With Mrs. Pennybacker and Mr
Brown on the platform were tho na
tional and State officers. Tho main
floor was occupied almost entirely by
delegates and alternates seated In
State delegations. Three hundred
ushers handled the crowds. Specially
constructed sounding boards carried
tho voices of the speakers to tho re
mote corner of tho groat auditorium.
Prior to the call to order, the throng"
Joined in singing "The Star Spangled
Banner."
Governor AVhltman was introduced aa
the tlrst speaker. Ho paid high trlbutn
to what he called "the new women"
after welcoming the delegates in behalf
of New York State.
"To-day women till our schools, col
leges and universities." he said, "and
their clubs, rooted In tho life of every
community, discuss all topics known to
human Interest. No door of opportunity
is closed to them. Of the 45 occupa
tions that go to mako up tho buslnosi
of life, the so-called 'weaker sex' It
laboring In all but five or ton. Over
000,iH women are engaged in gainful
occupations and in tho trades ns In tho
professions, the rewards of preferment
Increasingly wait upon merit rather
than pox.
"Who shall say that wo have not. been
bettered by It all'.' Kven though th
average man may still be unwilling to
regard all this as progress, there Is not
one of us that Is not glad
hluhor estate, or less than
of the added values that
given to our national life.
"The iaso for the whole woman move
ment is entitled to rest on the broad
ground of Justice. Incs'apably, how
ever, it is linked with the lives and
hopes of millions of helpless mothers
and tolling children, and with tho fight
against exploitation, oppression, slums,
sweatshops, child labor, vice and crime."
Fire Commissioner Robert Adjimson
welcomed the delegates and visitors in
tlio name of Mayor Mllohcl and extend
ed the freedom ot tho city to them.
Addi eses of welcome also were de
livered by Mrs. Albert H Hildreth of
Syracuse, president of tho New York
Stato Federation; Mrs. Benjamin Prince.
president of Sorosis, tho oldert woman's
tiub In the country; and Mrs. IJugene
Grant, president of the Now York City
Federation.
Following nddrespes by Dr. Katherlne
Foment Davis, chairman of the parola
board, and Mrs. Carrie Chapman Cntt
on tho progress of the "New Woman"
and suffrage. -Mrs. Pennybacker re
sponded to the welcoming speeches.
of woman's
appreciative
woman has
( Con 1 1 it ii rt on Piiue (wi.)
MEET AT WILLI AMSTOWN.
Vermont Central Vnsocliillon of I imer-
miIInIn "ml l'lilturluiiM. June I and 2.
Wllliamstown, Miy 21. Tito annual ses
sion of the Vermont Cent in) Association
of rnlvei-Millsts and Unitarians will b
held here at tho Fnlvorsaltst Church
Thursday and Friday. June 1 and 2.
The following Is tho program: Thurs
day evening, 7:30, devotional exercises;
7:1.1. address of welcome, the Rev A M.
Smith, response, J. B. Kstoo of Mont
pelier: S.t), Illustrated lecture, "The
Missionary Woik of tho Universalis!
Church," Hie Rev. Clarence U Falun ot
St. Johusbury. Friday morning. Saw,
devotional exorcise; 0:13, business, 9:SC,
roport of Woman's Alliance, Alice M.
Richardson; 0:15, ifiport of Woman's Mis.
klonary association, Mrs. Alice J Allen
of Waterloo. Quo.; 10:00, report of th
Unitarian Church, tho Rov Charles J.
Staples of Burlington: 10:15, roport of th
Untvorsallst Church, the Rev. Georgo F
FMrtler of St. Albans; 10:30, reports ot
the delegates; 11:0.1, occasional sermon,
tho Rev. R. D. Cranmer of Alorrlsvlltn.
11:20, communication sorvlce. the Rev A.
M. Smith, dinner. Friday afternoon,
1:30, address, tho Rov. Lowis C Carson
of Montpelier; 2;(V), address, Prof, O, K.
Ilolllster of Barro, 2 SO, unfinished busj.
nets
