NORTHWEST WORKER
OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF SNOHOMISH AND STEVENS COUNTIES
6c per copy; $1.00 per mi*.
L. E. KATTERFELD, SOCIALIST PARTY CANDIDATE FOR GOVERNOR
Lectures in The Forum on Memorial Day, Tuesday, May 30th, at 8 p. m.
Subject: "The Dawn of Plenty." Admission Free.
LABOR MUST UNITE TO SAVE
YOUNG, SAYS SCOTT NEARING
Children Cannot Be Protected From Poverty or
Exploitation of Capital Until Workers Re
solve to Be True to Their Own Interests
"The first thing that labor must do
is to resolve to be true to its crowd, to
resolve that it will not tolerate pov
erty, exploitation, the killing of its
babies, but will make common cause
against its exploiters.
"The next thing that labor must do
is to secure representation in the edu
cational institutions of the country,
to see that the schools tench the truth
and not lies. When the worker can
say what his children shall be taught
he is in a position to do what he will.
to establish in the United States the
essentials of democracy.
"This is my message to you," said
Scott xCearing. Toledo university, in
his address in Plankinton hall, at the
close of workers' day at the Baby
Week exhibit.
Workers Should Unite
"Labor has been charged with loaf
ing oh the job, with creating disturb
ance, with committing crimes during
strikes. But these are not the crimes
of labor. The workers' real crime is
that he hasn't stayed in the crowd in
which he belonged. The wage earner
in one strong, international union
hasn't raised his finger to help his
fellow worker in the same industry,
who is struggling to subsist on a
dying wage. He has fought against
his own interest, his own class. He
has allowed himself to be divided."
Points Right Division
"If the seven days of the Baby
Week were handed out on a demo
cratic basis," he said, "six out of the
seven days would be workingmen's
days, and one day would go to the
other crowd, for six out of seven of
those 'gainfully employed' are wage
FORD MAY START WORKERS
ON SIX-HOUR DAY AT $6
A six-hour day, with a dollar an
hour as the lowest wage, is said to be
the latest plan of Henry Ford for his
automobile factories.
It is the intention of Ford, acord
ing to Shillady, who said that he re
ceived his information from one of the
heads of the automobile company, to
have every man work a six-hour shift
without rest. This will be only an ex
periment, however, and if it fails to
meet with success, the six-hour period
will be broken by a rest. If the plan
proves satisfactory, it will be possi
ble to employ four shifts and keep
production at a uniform speed during
the whole twenty-four hours. The dol
lar an hour wage will be for common
labor, the experts to receive much
more than that.
THE MACHINE FUND
Following are the comrades that
have donated to the $175.00 Address
ing Machine fund. If you have not
already sent in your donation, we urge
you to do so now. Help make The
Northwest Worker a power in the
state. ;
Collected at convention $7.40
L. S. Anderson, Mukilteo 1.00
A. M. Calvert, Kelso 1.00
A Comrade, Everett 1.00
Katherine H. Hodgins, Everett.. 1.00
Mrs. Tillie Boeder, Everett 1.00
Walter Price, Outlook 1.00
Wm. Denhoff, Snohomish . 1.00
Total $14.40
"The Impending* Crisis"
Is a new stereopticon lecture that will be
delivered by
Maynard Shipley
In THE FORUM, SUNDAY, MAY 28
Admission 10c, Doors open at 8 p. m.
COME, LAUGH AND LEARN
"labor is the vital thing that makes
the wheels go round. What people do
has made history in city, state and
nation. The people who do the work
are the important element in the com
munity. What kind of treatment are
we handing out to them.
"There is the little girl in the
Pennsylvania silk mill who works
from (> p. m. to 6 a. m. five days in
the week. The only reason she doesn't
work six days is because the state law
limits the hours she may work in a
week to 60. And there is the 12-year
old boy to whom a teacher recently
called my atention. He was pale,
weak, anaemic, and weighed just .17
pounds.
Cites Death Figures
"In Johnstown, Pa., of the babies
of the well-to-do, 50 died of every
1,000 born; of the babies of the poor,
271 of every 1,000 died. These poor
were not the idle and the inefficient.
They were the workers, doing the un
skilled work in the mills, 10, 12 and
more hours a day for seven days in
the week, and receiving $10 a week.
They had taken jobs,with a corpora
tion capitalized at $1,600,000,000—
the Cambria Steel company in Johns,
town is part of the steel trust.
"These men, who worked for this
$1,000,000,000 corporation, had com
mitted the offense of doing America's
dirty work. Such is the deal we give
our workers.
"This corporation is paying wages
on which babies can do nothing but
die. If the angel Gabriel and all the
heavenly host were living in Johns
town, they'd die, too."
REACTIONARIES GET
EVERETT LABOR JOURNAL
The Everett Labor Journal, which
has been edited by Comrade Maynard
Shipley during the past year, has
passed into the hands of the reaction
aries.
Comrade Shipley, who is leaving on
a lecture tour, handed in his resigna
tion some two weeks ago, and at the
meeting of the board of control held
Sunday the names of A. W. Stanley
and Comrade John Worswick were
presented for the editorship. A ballot
was taken and A. W. Stanley was
elected editor by a vote of six to five.
From the beginning of the Irish re
bellion to May 9, 180 rebels or civilian
non-combatants were killed and 014
wounded.
REICHSTAG REFUSES
TO FREE LIEBKNECHT
The Reichstag, by a vote of 220 to
111, ratified the decision of the com
mittee refusing the release of Dr. Karl
Liebknecht, the Socialist leader, or to
postpone his trial on the charge of
having participated in a demonstra
tion in Berlin May 1.
The Northwest Worker has some
big surprises in store for you. We
are getting into a position where we
will make the fur fly in the forthcom
ing campaign. We must not put you
wise yet because our plans are not
completed. The whole state will be
benefitted by our plans and you will
all be tickled to death when you hear
of them.
EVERETT, WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, MAY 25, 1916.
+:+: •+-:■ •+■:*-:•+■: +■; ♦•:+•: ♦:■♦■; :+;♦\ +■ i ■+■ :+.-:+.-!• *-: .♦;!:♦, t*.i.*A -+i •* -:-+.-i +-i-+f *♦***♦**
: SOCIALIST UNITY I
mtW +: +: +•:■♦■:■+: +■:■+■; ♦•:•+■:■+•:■+■: +•:■♦■:•+■:♦-:■+■:■+•: ■+•!•+•:•+■;■♦■: ♦: +: •+•: ♦-;-+.;-+-;-+-:-+-:*-; + : *■:•+■;■♦•!•+•;•♦•:•♦-■;•♦•*
STATEMENT ADOPTED HY THE NATIONAL CONVENTION OF Til SOCIALIST LABOR PARTY, MAY
2, 1!»H», ON THE QUESTION OF UNITY WITH THE SOCIALIST PARTY.
(The membership of the Socialist
party in March, 1916, adopted by a
vote of 20,650 in favor, and 1,496
against, a resolution inviting the So
cialist Labor party to a conference
on the unity of (he two parlies. The
Socialist Labor parly, in national con
vention assembled on May 2, 1916,
took up the matter for consideration
and adopted the statement below
defining its position.)
S. L. P. Statement on Unity
The Socialist Labor party, in Mill
national convention assembled, ac
cepts the invitation of the Socialist
party to elect five representatives to
meet in conference five representa
tives of the Socialist party to con
sider anil, if possible, arange for unity
of the two parties.
In doing so the Socialist Labor par
ty acts true to the position it held in
the past and to the solemn declare,
tion on the subject it made to the
workers and to the Socialist and La
bor movement of this and other coun
i tries.
In fact it was the Socialist Labor
party that took the initiative in this I
Snohomish Convention Notes
The Socialists of Snohomish'Coun
ty met in convention at The Forum,
in Everett, on Sunday, May the 21st,
and, after adopting a platform for
Snohomish County, proposed two
names for each county office to be
filled, and which are to be submitted
to a referendum vote of the Social
ists of this county.
The following were the names pro
posed :
Senator, 38th Dist.—R. Van Dyke,
Walter Reese.
Representative, ,48th Dist. —George
Bartlett, J. W. Hoover, Sam Roberts,
C. P. Morrison,
County Clerk — J. O. Sharpless, Mrs.
Hannah Crosby.
County Auditor—V. M. Sill, W. I.
Toler.
Count; Treasurer— C. W. Carr, B.
11. Davis.
County Sheriff F. G. Crosby, B. A.
Bui ton.
County Assessor— John Hendrick
son, Sophus Bonnevie.
County Supt. of Schools— P. Me-
Kee, Mary McNamara.
County Commissioner, Ist Dist. —
W. C. mm, J. H. Wrage.
County Commissioner, 2nd Dist.—
J. M. Salter, John McNamara.
r*:"*PLATfORM"i
i _^w-S-___ _-*■ I
Socialist Party of Snohomish County
'J: We, the Socialist Party of Snohomish County, affirm our allegiance \i
<j; to, and support of, the principles and program of the revolutionary \1
V working class. ii
'-J: Labor, applied to natural resources, produced all wealth. The pies- Si
* ent economic system is based upon capitalist ownership of the means <}
<J> of production, consequently, all the products of labor belong to the <>
$ capitalist class. The capitalist is therefore master; the worker a \l
-!-' slave. 3!
-'-. . 1,
'J: So long as the capitalist class remains in possession of the reins of V
Di government all the powers of the State will be used to protect and rji
\f, defend its property rights in the means of wealth production and its '-!
-[• control of the product of labor. M>
•4- <l>
iji The capitalist system gives to the capitalist an ever-swelling stream 35
u> of profits, and to the worker, an ever-increasing measure of misery \\i
35 and degradation. J>~:
The interest of the working class lies in setting itself free from Ui
?i capitalist exploitation by the abolition of the wage system, under which $>
<> this exploitation, at the point of production, is cloaked. To accomplish §5
\\ this necessitates the transformation of capitalist property in the $
$ means of wealth production into socially controlled economic forces. $1
lG The irrepressible conflict of interest between the capitalist and the W>
?B worker necessarily expresses itself as a Class Struggle. -];
:{• Therefore, we call all workers to organize under the banner of the 9i
ij: Socitilist Party of Snohomish County, with the object of conquering the l>
ij|; political powers. «
r ( -> The Socialist Party when in office shall always and everywhere j|
r ]-; until the present system is abolished, make the answer to this question |j
']- its guiding rule of conduct: Will this legislation advance the inter- ±
<|> ests of the working class and aid the workers in their class struggle ?|
':/, against capitalism? If it will, the Socialist Party is for it; if it will 1
-[- not, the Socialist Party is absolutely opposed to it. :'
J: In accordance with this principle the Socialist Party pledges itself '.'■'.
V to conduct all the public affairs placed in its hands in such a manner 1
V as to promote the interests of the working class alone.
"'•". ,-~,r,.,. i-i . ~!~iTbrHrHTlri-jr!Tl'rlTlTlr)r^^ " '
T II E
JL 11 M.-J
mailer by adopting in 1008 the unity
resolution inviting the Socialist par
ty to a unity conference, which invita
tion at lie time was rejected by the
Socialist party administration. And
again, in 1911, the Socialist Labor
party issued the unity memorial,
wherein the Socialist Labor party, re
plying to the demand lor the unity of
Socialists in all countries, as expressed
by the International Socialist, con
gress at Copenhagen in 1010, suggest
ed that a unity conference, composed
of five representatives from each of
the two parties in America, be arran
ged for. We note with satisfaction
that the Socialist party has at lust
advanced to the position where it re
alizes the importance of and its ob
ligation to take up and seriously con
sider the question of Unification of the
Socialist mavement in America.' The
Socialist Labor parly held and holds
today:
That there is in America, as else
where, only one working class to fight
for and only one capitalist class to
to fight against, and that consequent
ly there is no . room for more than '
County Coroner—W. S. Keyser,
Hans Bonnevie.
The following resolutions were
adopted: ■;,,■
Whereas, the manufacturers of war
munitions are attempting to stampede
the people of this nation into a scheme
of militarism; and
Whereas, the workers of the nation
have nothing to gain by a commercial
war, and,
Whereas, the workers should devote
all of their time to organization and
education, so that the present com
petitive system, the cause of all wars,
may be abolished, be it,
Resolved, that this convention go
on record as favoring a strenuous ed
ucational campaign to counteract this
pernicious militarist propaganda.
Whereas, the exploiters of labor in
this state, are resorting to the non
partisan movement to divert the
minds of the workers from their eco
nomic interests by the red herring
method, be it.
Resolved, that this convention fa
vors an active and relentless cam
paign, exposing this fake movement
to divide the workers.
The following platform was adopt
ed:
OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF SNOHOMISH COUNTY
one party of Socialism in any given
country. The Socialist labor party rec
ognizes that the contiued division and
public rivalry and antagonism in the
political arena between the two par
ties speaking in the name and flying
the flag of Socialism cannot but have
a confusing and demoralizing effect
upon the masses of workers inclining
toward Socialism; that such a condi
tion retards the advance of a properly
built political Socialist movement as
well as that of a true industrial union
movement—the two vital means to the
emancipation of the working class
from wage slavery.
The Socialist labor party recog
nizes, in addition to the above, that
the point has been reached in the his
tory of America, when the very basic
institutions and elementary rights and
liberties of this country are in danger
of being destroyed by a powerful mili
tarist machine which the capitalist
class of America—while pretending
to be engaged in mere so-called "pre
paredness" against a foreign invasion
— is building for its own protection
(Continued on Page Three.)
NEWS IN BRIEF
BEAVER FALLS.—The Pennsyl
vania State Federation of Labor held
its anual convention in this city, be
ginning May 11. — committee on
resolutions submitted a resolution,
which was adopted, protesting against
the unusual spending of money on the
army and navy.
PITTSBURGH, Pa.—Local Social
ists declare that Ford stickers are be
ing used by old party politicians for
the double purpose of helping the Pen
rose machine against Governor Brum
baugh and coaxing votes away from
the Socialist ticket.
We believe in "propaganda prepar
edness." That is why we want the
addressing machine. What about your
dollar?
James 11. Maurer, only Socialist
member of the legislature, was re
elected president of the State Federa
tion of Labor recently by a large ma
jority in the Federation's convention.
SOCIALISTS PUT ALDERMAN
INTO RENDSBURG COUNCIL
RENDSBURG, Germany.— old
parties in the city of Rendsburg, Sles
vig, refused to turn the seat of one
alderman over to the Socialists under
the party truce. An election became
necessary, and the Socialists carried
the place by a majority of three.
FRENCH 3-MONTH BUDGET
EXCEEDS $1,500,000,000
The French budget for the third
quarter of 1916 exceeds $1,500,000,000,
Minister of Finance Ribot announced
when the chamber of deputies reopen
ed. He asked immediate increases in
duties on many commodities to meet
heavy war expenses.
DEBS CAMPAIGN TO BE
PUSHED VIGOROUSLY
TERRE HAUTE.—The Debs cam
paign committee has made arrange
ments to distribute Socialist literature
systematically among 24,000 farmers
and 10,000 miners in the Fifth con
gressional district id' Indiana.
CONSCRIPTION FOES ARE
FINED $500 IN LONDON
LONDON.— Eight members of the
No Conscription fellowship were ar
raigned for circulating a pamphlet
demanding the repeal of the compul
sory military service act. Each de
fendant was fined $500.
LABOR KEEPS AWAY FROM
PREPAREDNESS PARADE
NEW YORK.—In spite of all ef
forts made by advocates of militarism
the labor organizations of this city
kept away from the great prepared
ness parade held here on May 14, Not
a single labor organization was offi
cially represented.
BRITISH ANTI-MILITARISTS ARE
BULLIED, BEATEN AND JAILED
Englishmen Who Offer Conscientious Objections
to Military Service Are Subjected to
Cossack Treatment
Reports of arrests under the Mili
tary Service Act come in now with
the horrible regularity of the casualty
lists, and, like these, seem to strike
the same heartless note of bald fi
nality. "Handed over to the military
authorities"—so the law disposes of
one Conscientious Objector after an
other, until the verdict loses all dis
tinction and passes from a judgment
to a certain mechanically imposed
fate.
Sentences of as high as two years
penal servitude are being handed out.
In some cases the objector, after hav
ing been forced into the army, refuses
to obey orders and is court-martialed
and sentenced to hard labor in a mili
tary prison, and using the words of
soldiers, "Two years hard in a mili
tary prison is worse than penal servi
tude for life."
Hundreds are sentenced to a few
days in prison and then sent to the
military camp for training.
As to what may ultimately happen
to them, their custodians are not back
ward in hints: "The next you will
hear of your Conscientious Objector
will be from the trenches in France,"
a Sergeant said to someone who had
been visiting a Conscientious Object
or in the barack guard room, and sev
eral others have been told that if they
persist in disobeying orders they will
be shot.
Ordered to Be Shot
One Conscientious Objector, who
was arrested on April 14, has already
gone through the ordeal of a mock
execution.
He was taken from Lambeth Police
Court to the guard room in Whitehall,
and shortly afterward informed that
he would be shot at dawn; then, after
a great deal of insult, he was taken
into another room, in order, so he was
told, to be shot. A rifle was pointed
at him, and then—he was "pardoned."
He was left alone for a while, but
presently the sergeant came in again
with another soldier, who, in the
course of conversation, knocked him
down. Again he was taken into the
next room, a rifle was loaded, the ser
geant ordered the other man to fire,
and then withdrew the order.
After that the prisoner remained in
the guard room until the next morn
ing, when he was sent to Winchester,
and is now awaiting Courtmartial in
the detention cells at the Rifle Depot
there.
Among other reports of gross ill
treatment of Conscientious Objectors
there is one case of a prisoner being
put in irons on account of his resist
ance to being dressed in uniform.
Soldiers' Respect Won
But though there have been plenty
HILL OF RIGHTS
FOR THE DEAD
That statute under which Paul R.
Haffer was convicted in the state of
Washington for charging that Wash
ington drank, swore and owned
slaves, is founded on a principle new
to jurisprudence. Free government
is supposed to guarantee to the indi
vidual the exercise of all natural
rights, limited only at the point where
he begins to infringe on the natural
rights of others. But whose lights
were interfered with when Mr. Haffer
relying upon the privilege of free
speech, made tart remarks about the
Father of his Country ? If defendant
Haffer could be prosecuted for saying
caustic things about G. W.s unpopu
lar contemporary, George III? Or
about Julius Caesar or Brigham
Young or Machiavelli or Jesse James
or Jeff Davis or Nebuchadnezzar or
the Bender family or Brick Pomeroy
or Nero or Oliver Cromwell or Ivan
the Terrible or Ghenghis Khan or Gen.
Boulanger or Aaron Burr or Judas
Maccabeus ? Does the constitution
follow the flag into the next world?
In Washington one must speak softly
in discussing personages of the past.
Historians must write softly.—St.
Louis Post-Dispatch.
When you are through with the
Northwest Worker, PASS IT ON.
No. 281.
j of instances of bullying and illusage,
there is also evidence of something
much more embarrassing to the mili
tarist point of view than the Conscien
tious Objector's obstinate refusal to
assist in killing. There is evidence of
the risk of what may happen to the
army of Conscientious Objectors if
large numbers are drafted into it. All
that the army stands —"theirs not
to reason why"—is being imperiled by
the introduction into the guardroom—
which appears to be quite a social
dentre of the barracks— a few men
whose consciences forbid obedience to
that shibboleth, and who from being
at first thought quite incomprehensi
ble ("the soldiers cannot make them
out at all," is the usual impression)
often end by winning sympathy and
admiration. One sergeant said to a
relative of a Conscientious Objector
who went to visit him: "We all like
him for his pluck; he's been sticking
to his guns and we all respect him."
Another prisoner writes: "They have
been fairly decent to me here and
seem to have a certain amount of re
spect for a Conscientious Objector, at
any rate more than the Local Tribun
al had." Those responsible for army
morals should beware.
Merthyr Anti-Militarists' Courage
Five anti-militarists from Merthyr
and Aberdare send the following let
ter:
Guardroom, Cardiff Barracks.
The inevitable consequences of op
posing Militarism in Great Britain
have overtaken us. We are following
the example of those of our Russian
and German comrades who have re
fused to submit to the military ma
chine. The victims now in military
prisons throughout the country form
the greatest testimony to the fact that
the International is not dead, but will
yet triumph. We from the Merthyr
and Aberdare Valleys will not desert
the faith of our leader and comrade,
Keir Hardie. Five of us are here,
having refused to obey' military au
thority. We refused to sign papers
and to submit to medical examination.
We are to be tried by court-martial
next week.
As time goes on the other South
Wales comrades will follow, and the
valleys which have produced so many
fights for industrial freedom will do
their share in the fight against mili
tary tyranny. Long live the Interna
tional!
(Signed)
BETH MORGAN.
E. HUGHES.
G. SMITH.
P. KENDELL.
I. WILLIAMS.
"The Issue"
Is the subject of a lecture to be
delivered by
MAYNARD SHIPLEY ;
in the
Trafton
School House
SATURDAY, MAY 27
Admission Free. Doors Open
at 7:30 p. m.
LECTURES HELD
DURING NEXT WEEK
L. E. Katterfeld.
Saturday, May 27, Entiat.
Sun., May 28 (2 p. m)— Wenatchee.
Sun., May 28 (8 p. m.)— Quiltochine.
Monday, May 29, Baring.
Tuesday, May 30, Everett.
Wednesday, May 81, Seattle.
Thursday, June 1, Leavenworth.
Friday, June 2, Cashmere.
Saturday, June 3, Coluckum.
Sunday, June 4 (2 p.m.), Adrian.
Sun., June 4 (8 p.m.), Wilson Creek.
Every dollar we get towards the
addressing machine fund is a nail in
the coffin of the capitalist system.
