This
Issue
20 Page*
Vol. 15: No. 6.
OF
GOV. LB. HANNA
Candidate for the Republican Nomina­
tion as United States Senator.
To the Men of North Dakota:
In submitting for your consideration
my candidacy for the Republican nom­
ination as United States Senator, I re
It
spectfully ca}l your attention, first, to
F' some phases of my administration as
5 Governor of our state, and, second, to
my position on the paramount issues
of our national government:
Record as Governor.
Checking State Departments: I as­
sumed the office as Governor about
January 1, 1913, and in my first mes
sage to the legislature I recommended
that the various state offices, including
the Land Department, should be
checked up by expert accountants.
This was done and the books in every
department were audited and brought
down to date.
Rural Credits: I recommended that
an appropriation should be made for
the purpose of studying the rural
credit problem. This recommendation
was not acted upon, but I believe
North Dakota has the best solution of
this problem of any state in the
Union. The original law permitting
the school funds to be loaned upon
farm lands was passed in 1897, and
the first bill upon that subject ever
submitted to the state legislature was
introduced by me when a member of
the House in 1895, the law having gone
into effect in 1897. When I became
Governor in 1913, the law had been in
effect 16 years, the number of farm
loans was 999 and the amount loaned
was $1,654,957.00. Today there are
2609 loans and the amount loaned is
$4,188,740.00. In brief, during the
three years I have been Governor,
1610 loans were made as against 999
for 16 years previousi—an increase of
161 per cent the amount of the loans
was increased 153 per cent. These
loans are well scattered over the state,
every county has received its propor­
tionate part of the money and the
farmers have derived the benefit of
this low rate of interest.
Absent Voter Law: I recommended
the Absent Voter Law in 1913, and it
passed at that session.
Game Conservation: I recommend­
ed that the killing of deer be prohibit­
ed for a number of years and that
spring shooting should be stopped,
both of which game conservation rec­
ommended became laws.
Blue Sky Law: I recommended the
passage of a Blue Sky Law with strin­
gent regulations for selling stock in
corporations. This law has saved the
people of the state large sums of
money.
Coal Products: The greatest nat­
ural resource we have is our lignite
coal. I recommended to our legisla­
ture that this industry should be given
help, looking toward the briquetting of
coal and the making of gasoline and
other oil by-products from it.
Reducing the State's Debt: I call­
ed the attention of the 1915 legisla­
ture to the fact that when I became
Governor the state owed, as a floating
debt, about three hundred thousand
dollars. All of this has been paid
during the- years I have been Gover­
nor. The bonded debt of the state was
$937,300.00 and this has been reduced
•about one-half in three years—a total
reduction of $750,000.00 in the state's
indebtedness.
Lowest Tax Levy: If North Dako
tans will look over their tax receipts
they will find that for the past three
years the tax levy has been the low­
est for state purposes in our history.
Budget System for our state appro
Budget System for our sttae appro­
priations. This was largely followed
by the 1915 legislature and provisions
made for it for the future. The Bud­
get System means economy in the ad­
ministration of our affairs.
Reducing Interest Rate: I was the
first Governor ever to recommend that
the contract rate of interest be reduc­
ed from 12 to 10 per cent, and this
was enacted into law.
Board of Regents: I recommended
that a State Board of Regents be es­
tablished to have the care and control
of our state educational institutions.
This also became a law, and is one of
the best measures passed by the legis­
lature of 1915.
Other Reforms: I also recommend­
ed the passage of the law creating the
Trained Nurses' Examining Board
the law to encourage Immigration
the law to permit the state to take
-advantage of the so-called Lever Bill
in the interests of the better farming
^-movement the law providing for the
^fumigation of cars carrying livestock
Ithe law providing for tne payment of
fthe dourine claims. All these are now
|law. I urged that the House and Sen­
ate membership should be reduced in
'.'number and that four year terms of
office should be made for state and
county officers. Neither of these have
tbecome law, but I believe will in the
£near future.
Economy and Efficiency: During
my administration, I have conducted
the business of the state with economy
and efficiency and an investigation of
the records will substantiate this
statement.
Co-operation: I have always be
lieved in the co-operation and organiz­
ation of the farmers and have given
/every encouragement to these move
ments and to every movement looking
^toward the advancement of our people
alon£ the lines of temperance arid ed­
ucation.
National Issues.
Experience: As a member of Con-
fress
for four years from our state
have valuable experience in national
affairs, which would be highly advan
tagious should I become United States
Senator from North Dakota.
Water Power: We have right here
in North Dakota one of the greatest
water powers in the world—the Mis­
souri river. North Dakota furnishes
more money than any other state in
the Union for National Irrigation pro­
jects. I hold that this state is entitled
to the use of some of these funds for
the purpose of damning the Missouri
river. The water of the river, if dam­
med, and it can be, could be used for
irrigation over a large area, and, in
addition, power and light could be gen­
erated to supply farms and towns over
a vast territory.
Reciprocity Act: The Reciprocity
Act between the United States and
Canada should be repealed. I voted
against this act when a member of
Congress and should I be elected to the
Senate will use every effort to secu*
the repeal of this Law.
Tariff and Philippins: I am a Re­
publican and believe in a reasonable
protective tariff. I believe we should
maintain our control of the Philip­
pines until such time as we shall have
fulfilled our pledges and the inhabi­
tants of the island shall be fully cap­
able of self government.
Preparedness: I am in favor of
preparedness. No one believes more
strongly in peace than I do, consistent
with virile Americanism. I would wel­
come the day when the whole world
should agree to arbitration of inter­
national questions. I believe it is a
matter of necessity for the United
States, with present island posses­
sions, with the Panama Canal, and
with the great place we are taking
among the nations of the world, to be
in a position to protect our citizens,
their lives and property, at home and
abroad. I strongly favor the Swiss
method of military training and am,
therefore, in favor of such prepared­
ness as shall put our army upon a
sound basis and give us a navy that
shall command the respect of all na­
tions of the earth.
Our Foreign Policy: I am in favor
of a strong foreign policy one that
will keep the United States out of war
if possible, but which shall, at the
same time, keep to us the respect to
which we are entitled from other na­
tions.
I believe we should introduce econ­
omy, thrift and efficiency into all de­
partments, both state and federal, and
will work to that end.
Upon these propositions I submit
my cause to the people of North Da­
kota. I have given them a clean, eco­
nomical administration, have worked
faithfully for the state as a private
citizen, as a member of Congress and
as Governor, and upon the record
made, I ask for support for the nomi­
nation for the United States Senator
ship at the primaries, June 28, 1916.
L. B. HANNA.
BEGLEY OUT FOR CORONER.
Minot Fuel Dealer Will File His Pe­
titions—Has a Host of Friends
in the County.
M. E. Begley, a prominent fuel deal­
er of this city, has announced his can­
didacy for the nomination for coroner
of Ward county. Mr. Begley's petitions
are being prepared and will be duly
filed.
Mr. Begley has resided in Minot for
a good many years and no one has a
larger list of warm friends. While
the duties of the office are not usually
very arduous, Mr. Begley will be in a
position to give the work his personal
attention and without question will
make an excellent official.
GRAND FORKS NAN
MURDERED WAITRESS
Harry Smith, in Jealous Fit, Took the
Life of Mrs. May Cain, Who Had
Spurned His Attentions.
Harry Smith shot and killed Mrs.
Mary Cain, aged 36 years, at her home
in Grand Forks Sundajr afternoon, in
a fit of jealousy. Within 36 hours he
had pleaded guilty before Judge Cool
ey, who sentenced him to life im­
prisonment in the penitentiary.
Mrs. Cain was a waitress at Hotel
Dacotah in Gr^and Forks and worked
hard to support her four children.
Smith had been rooming at the Cain
home and for years had been infatu­
ated with Mrs. Cain. He met her
while both were employed at the
Grand Pacific Hotel at Bismarck and
followed her to Grand Forks.
Smith, after killing the woman, says
he intended to turn the weapon on him­
self. Her eldest daughter grappled
with him and the chamber of the re­
volver fell out. After he had more
time for thought, he decided to give
himself up to the authorities.
Smith claims that a traveling man,
one Harry D. White, became acquaint­
ed with Mrs. Cain, and believing that
White was visiting the woman at the
time, he got a gun and went to her
home. When she refused to make up
with him, he shot her in the breast
twice, one bullet penetrating her heart.
Mrs. Cain's former husband, G. H.
Cain, lives at Claremont, S. D., where
the remains were interred beside those
of a child who died several years ago.
IP
THE WARD COUNTY INDEPENDENT
THE INDEPENDENT HAS THE LARGEST CIRCULATION OF ANY WEEKLY PAPER IN THE STATE
COLOBL DEWOODE
Prominent Promoter Died at Hospital
After Short Illness From Pneu
monia—Home at Cedar Rapids.
Col. M. T. DeWoode, aged 58 years,
passed away at a local hospital Tues­
day morning at 4:30 o'clock after an
illness of eight days from pneumonia.
His wife and daughter, who arrived
from Cedar Rapids, la., were at his
bedside. The remains were shipped to
the old home. Cedar Rapids, la., Wed­
nesday morning.
Mr. DeWoode had resided in Minot
several months. He was engaged in
organization work. He was a big
man physically and mentally and made
many friends during his short stay
here. He was one of the organizers
of the Great Northern Life Insurance
Co. of Grand Forks and during his life
had made and spent several fortunes.
Mr. DeWoode is survived by his wife
and six children.
MAN HUNT IN HILLS
RESULTS IN ARREST.
Rolla, N. D., May 23.—After a man
hunt in the hills, Deputy Sheriff Bro
bery located and placed under arrest
John Mont, wanted on several charges
of passing worthless checks, and get­
ting away with a team of horses from
a liveryman. Checks as large as $125
were passed by Mont that failed to
materialize into cash.
Jack Babe Died.
The*' four-months-old daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. G. S. Jack passed away
Wednesday morning after a short ill­
ness from pneumonia at the home, 210
Fourth street S. E. Mr. Jack is the
proprietor of a monument works
this city.
in
Blakey Granted Permit.
The city commission granted a
building permit to A. S. Blakey, the
plans having been changed to comply
with the requirements of the city or­
dinance. Mr. Blakey will rebuild at
the site of his former block which was
destroyed by fire.
EARNING BEE AT
LEGER EARN
Kind Neighbors Plow and Harrow 70
Acres in One Day—88 Horses in
the Field.
A number of the neighbors gathered
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Alfred
Leger, seven miles northeast of this
city, Wednesday of last week and
plowed and harrowed 70 acres of land
in one day. There were eighty-eight
horses in the field all day long, pulling
eleven gang plows, two triple gang
plows, a harow and a drill. J. L.
Skrivseth, the Minot photographer, se­
cured a picture of this most uifusual
sight. Mr. Leger seeded during the
day and had no difficulty in finishing
his seeding early enough so that he
is assured a good crop.
The wives accompanied their hus­
bands, taking the noon day lunch and
served hot coffee.
That Mr. and Mrs. Leger appreciate
the act on the part of their kind neigh­
bors is putting it very mildly for they
were unable to find words strong
enough to express their heartfelt
thanks. Mrs. Leger has been ill for
several weeks and only a short time
ago they were bereft of their only
child, Raymond, a young man who had well
just arrived at his majority, who met
death in this city following a motor­
cycle accident.
Mr. and Mrs. Leger are held in the
very highest esteem by their many
friends.
Those who assisted in the work
were: Helmer Lee, John Lee, A. Erb,
H. A. Monagin, Jos. Korgel, Vitus
Carlson, Geo. Renfeldt, Emil Butten
schine, W. Edwards, O. R. Brown,
Martin Eazlezik, John Helset, R. Ped
erson, Wm, Estlick and Chauncy
Jones.
LAMBERT FOR DISTRICT JUDGE.
On account of the fact that this of­
fice is non-partisan and there are only
two candidates, it is certain that both
will be nominated in June, and the
real fight will come off in the fall.
Therefore, to save time and the ex­
pense of two campaigns, I will not
make a personal canvas of the voters
before the primaries, but will, never­
theless, appreciate every vote I can
get at that time.
Don't vote for me because you want
to be appointed Juvenile officer, bailiff
or juror because you expect to get the
long end of some law suit that might
come off before me if I am elected, or
because I need the money. If elected
I want it to come as a result of your
deliberate judgment that I have the
ability and will deliver the goods with­
out fear or favor. I do not belong to,
nor will I be controlled by any gang
or faction, and if elected will study
hard, consider conscientiously all mat­
ters submitted to me and whenever
any case is being tried in my court,
will keep my eyes and ears open and
be in the game from start to finish.
F. B. LAMBERT,
Minot, N. Dak.
T®1S1
W
^4'085
Minot, Ward County, North Dakota, Thursday, May 25, 1916 Subscription $ 1 Per Annum
DRADy BRUTE
GETS 31-2 YEARS
George Hemmeken, Who Assaulted
Miss Alma Nelson With Pitch­
fork, Pleads Guilty.
George Hemmeken, who assaulted
Miss Alma Nelson with a pitchfork,
some weeks ago at the home of the dren's garments, in fact, garments of
the absence of the father from home,
he attacked Miss Nelson with a pitch­
fork as she was milking early one
morning. He beat her over the head
Sherwood Man Took Bad Tumble.
Lew Gregg, who lives in the vicinity
of Sherwood, nearly met death Mon­
day evening when he fell backwards
down the areaway in front of the Mi­
not Steam Laundry building. Gregg
was "pickled" at the time, otherwise
he would have fared worse. He struck
on his head and received some severe
cuts. Gregg was perched on the rail­
ing, which appears to have given
away.
HAT EXHIBITS AT
THE HINOT-SCHOOLS
Annual Event Attended by Thousands
Who Praise Splendid Work Done
By Boys and Girls.
The annual exhibit of the work done
in the departments of art, domestic
science, penmanship and manual train­
ing were on display at the High and
Central school buildings on Monday
and Tuesday of this week and were
viewed by hundreds of interested pat­
rons and visitors interested in the wel­
fare of our schools.
Hemmeken was employed by the which the pupils are taught to pre
young woman's parents. He professed pare. Frequently Miss Taylor's classes
to love Miss Nelson, but she took a serve regular dinners when their
dislike to him and spurned his atten- knowledge of the culinary art as well
tions. This enraged him and during as their ability to properly serve a
several times. She fought with the of today is more neglected than the
brute and managed to get into the' art of writing. But happily this crit
manger. Here he stabbed her sevajial icism does not apply to the Minot city
times, intending to murder her. Sne schools. Under the capable supervis
would have met death had not a corset ion of Miss Waters the pupils of our
stay diverted the course of the tine. schools are enjoying the privilege of
of the fork. Leaving the young wo- having one of the most efficient expon
man more dead than alive, Hemmeken. ents of the writing art among the ed
went to the house. Miss Nelson re-. ucators of our great state. The com
gained consciousness and made her. plete Palmer course of penmanship is
way to a neighbor's half a mile dis-, used. This system has come to be
tant, where she summoned medical recognized and accepted as the stan
aid. She hovered between life and
death for several days, but has now
fully recovered.
The exhibits this year were unusual­
ly fine and reflect much credit upon
those in charge of the instruction in
the various departments mentioned.
The exhibits were cleverly arranged
and the decorations of each room in
which they were displayed harmonized
nicely with the character of the ex­
hibits. On Monday evening the high
school orchestra, stationed in the of­
fice of the Central building, discoursed
a pleasing variety of selections which
contributed quite materially to the
pleasure of the visitors. In the high
school building, the domestic science
class served frappe and wafers. Taken
all in all, the exhibit this year was
UP
*°. the high standard which has
characterized the exhibits of former
years.
Manual Training.
The manual training exhibit attract­
ed much attention and the excellent
choice of articles exhibited, taken in
connection with the skill manifest in
their construction, merited well the
high praise accorded by every visitor
who entered the room. A number of
handsome library tables, book-cases,
pedestals, Morris chairs, buffet, music
cabinets, piano benches, umbrella
stands, tabourets and foot-stools com­
prised the principal portion of the ex­
hibit. .But especial mention must be
made of the exquisitely beautiful li­
brary. lamps which were unique as
well as artistic in design. This de­
partment of our schools is in charge
of Messrs. Van Duzee and Smallwood,
and the work of the pupils reflect the
hearty spirit of co-operation which ex­
ists between the instructors and the
students. Manual Training is taken
up in tne 6th grade and students may
continue the work until they enter the
junior year of high school. The work
begins with simple elementary bench
work, leading thru wood turning, arch­
itecture, drawing, advanced wood­
work, and mechanical drawing. Each
student designs his own products and
works from his own drawings and
blue prints. No effort is made to teach
a trade, but rather to train the stu­
dent to know how to do things and
to read blue-prints intelligently, be­
coming accurate and skillful in the
process as a matter of course.
Lack of sufficient room has hamper­
ed the work in this department but
with the facilities at hand the instruc­
tors are doing wonderfully good work.
-\A, Domestic Science.
On& of the larger rooms of the high,
"fWWPIWpIpP^^
school building was entirely devoted
to a display of the handiwork of the
students of this department. Dis­
played upon the walls and upon tables
were hundreds of examples of the pu­
pils' ability along the lines of sewing,
crochet work, embroidering, tatting,
and machine sewing. The neat and
careful manner in which the various
articles were designed was a revela­
tion to many who had supposed that
domestic science, as taught in our
schools, was only a fad. The major
portion of the exhibits were things
that had a practical value and use in
the household economy of any home,
consisting of aprons, dresses, chil
young woman's parents, Mr. and Mrs.! every kind and articles requisite to
Charles Nelson, 14 miles southwest of. the home were displayed. Miss Taylor,
Minot, in an attempt to take her life, who is in charge of this department in
entered a plea before Judge Leighton our schools, says that her aim is to
Tuesday and was sentenced to serve make her instruction practical and
three and a half years at hard labor thorough. In cooking her pupils are
in the penitentiary. It is considered taught the art of bread-making, pas-|
that Hemmeken got off very easily for, try and every toothsome dainty that
a criminal who committed such a ter-! the human appetite craves being in
rible offense. eluded among the list of eatables
meal are put to the test.
Penmanship.
Perhaps no single subject in the
course of study of the public schools
dard, just as the Spencerian system at
one time held sway. Under the Palmer
system the pupil is led by carefully
planned gradations in the course to
advance step by step from the rudi­
mentary to the more advanced and in­
tricate phases and finally, upon com­
pleting the course, the pupil, if fonnd
proficient in the art, is awarded a di­
ploma. At times prior to this attain­
ment, if his work shows sufficient mer­
it he receives a certificate of improve­
ment. This year there were 23 who
received diplomas and 22 who were
awarded certificates of improvement.
Miss Waters is enthusiastic and un­
tiring in her efforts, the immense dis­
play of work by her pupils which re­
quired the wall space of two rooms in
the high school building attests the
excellence of her instruction and the
splendid work the pupils are doing un­
der her guidance.
Art.
The art exhibit filled every room
of the Central school building. Here
were displayed the work of the grades.
The exhibits covered work in water
colors, drawing, paper-cutting, etc.,
and was a revelation to many visitors
of the wonderful possibilities that may
be developed in our youth along the
lines of talent in sketching and draw
continued on page 4.)
JAMES J. HILL QUITE SICK.
James J. Hill, the great railroad
builder, is said to be quite seriously
ill at his home in St. Paul. Louis W.
Hill, president of the Great Northern,
states that his father's condition is
not so serious and that it is expected
he will soon recover. Mr. Hill is 78
years of age.
Normal Students Enjoy Festival.
The Normal school students enjoyed
an out-of-door festival on the campus
Friday night. Informal stunts were
put on by the various classes and
dancing was enjoyed until 10:30.
EARNER NAKES
HIS OWN ROADS
McHenry County Man Sets Splendid
Example for Farmers All Over
the State.
Balfour, May 28.—One of the most
progressive stunts that has been pull­
ed off in this vicinity for some time,
was done by Christ Stenso, a live wire
farmer- living north of the city.
Mr. Stenso, at his own expense, put
his teams and hired man on the grader
and made a great improvement on the
road between the Geo. Behner farm
and his own place. The distance the
road worked covered about six miles
and those who have traveled over this
particular road say if this example
was followed by all, the road problem
would be practically solved. Mr. Sten­
so spent two days at this work and as
a result many places that were almost
impassable have been improved to such
an extent that travel is a delight over
this particular road.
Mr. Stenso has had considerable ex­
perience in road building and realizes
that the low grades should receive the
first consideration, for it costs more
money to haul over a hilly road than
over a level one. After the road is
once properly built it is an easy mat­
ter to keep it in shape with the road
drag.
WALLIN AN EARLY BIRD.
John Wallin, candidate for county
treasurer, was the first to file his pe­
titions, Friday. Mr. Wallin secured
500 signers, where the law required
but two hundred.
*T .'
FIRST
SECTION
CITIZENS WILL
Members of Minot Auto Club Will
Work With Pick and Shovel Re
pairing the Roads.
An interesting meeting of the Mi­
not Auto Club was held at the audi­
torium of the public library Thursday
evening and important plans were laid
for improving the roads in the vicin­
ity of Minot. The club has a fund of
several hundred dollars, raised from
membership fees, and this will be ex
pended to the best advantage.
The club does not believe in "spout­
ing hot air" but in doing things, as
was evidenced by immedaite action.
The following morning, one of the
county's new graders was secured and
an engine hired. Some good work was
done on the road leading west from
Minot. Some of the city streets will
be fixed. Street Commissioner John
J. Lee attended the meeting and ex­
pressed his willingness to work with
the club.
County Commissioners Vanden
oever, Lokensgard and Hennessy, who
were present, spoke favorable to the
work and offered some valuable sug­
gestions. The commissioners outlined
their plans for building good roads,
which appear very practical.
A Good Roads day was considered.
The Minot Auto Club will work in
unison with the citizens of some of
the surrounding towns and the mem­
bers will don overalls for a day, work­
ing with pick and shovel. They will
meet the workers from some other
town, and after repairing the roads,
will all journey back to Minot, where
luncheon will be served. Most of the
other towns in this section of the state
will organize clubs and some good
work will be done.
The next meeting of the club will
be held this evening.
$ $ $'
CLEAN-UP NEEDED AT THE
CEMETERY.
We take this opportunity to
speak a few words about cleaning
up and beautifying the cemetery.
Every year, just a few days be­
fore Decoration day, it has been
customary, in most instances, for
people to rush to the cemeteries
and do a little cheap fixing up,
merely for the sake of good looks
for that one day, and then neglect
the plots for the balance of the
year. This is not right, and does
not show proper respect for the
memories of the departed. It is
not the big, gaudy or flashy mon­
uments that make a beautiful
resting plot for the dead, but
something of a permanent na­
ture, in the way of improvements
to the landscape, that is worth
while and show the best respect.
It might be better if monuments
of extravagance, erected only for
show, were restricted in our cem­
eteries and lot owners required in
place of these to beautify their
lots and be limited to modest
headstones or markers. This
might bring more attention to
the beautifying of the plots by
people of modest means, who de­
fer at present. A load or two of
black dirt and some grass seed
and flowers will not cost but a
couple of dollars, and if you do
the work yourself it will add in­
terest to the plots, and if every
person would do but a little along
these lines, our cemeteries would
soon become noted as beauty
spots, of their kind.
Minot at present has two ideal
spots for burial places and quite
a little work has been done, but
much more can be done. Plenty
of green grass, flowers and trees
are within the reach of all, no
matter how poor, and these
things make the beauty. After
making the start, keep it up, and
each year add something perma­
nent.
S S $ $• $ $£"§
RANDALL GRABBED BY
FEDERAL OFFICERS.
Young Man Who is Charged with
Burglarizing G. N. Cars at Berth
old Faces a Serious Problem.
Horace Randall, the Berthold dray­
man, now out under bail for his ap­
pearance at the next term of county
court charged with burglarizing a G.
N. freight car, is again in the toils of
the law. The U. S. authorities have
now placed him under arrest, Deputy
U. S. Marshal Mostad serving the war
ant upon the young fellow at his home
in Kenmare. Deputy Mostad brot his
man to Minot and he is now safely
lodged at the county bastile. The
former charge will be withdrawn and
Randall will be tried in Federal court,
as his case comes under the head of
violating the provisions of the Inter
State Commerce Act.
Wedding Announced.
The approaching marriage of Miss
Josephine Vandenoever and Henry
Roberts was announced at an enjoya­
ble party given at the home of the
parents of the bride-to-be, Mr. and
Mrs. Peter Vandenoever, Monday ev­
ening. Miss Vandenoever is one of
the most popular members of the
younger set and Mr. Roberts is assist- ™f
ant manager of the Russell-Miller
Milling Co. of this city.
Wn
