State Historical Society
HP
ANEY
OUNTY
EPUBLICAN
KOliSYTH, MISSOIUU, TIIUUSDAY, MAY -J5, 1916.
Four Pages.
Vol. !. Ni. i!S.
Washington letter
I Krom Our It ifiilin ' i r. i - 1 1 .
NEW TAXATION: A speria! lax on
gasoline at.dtnxon sllin'ernjl combtis
ticn engines according t i horrp',iot'r,
it will be romenibtrtd, w.re pruposed
by President Wilson in his annual
Mosige as a means of remedying the
Treasury deficit. He also propos
ed an additional stamp tax to include j
bark checks, etc. Speaker Clatk has
from the first been oprn and deter
mined in his oppnsitioh to an addition
al stamp t.ix. O'.her influential mem
bers of Cuirss have, furthermore,)
opposed any tax on (jisoline and k iso
line engines. As a consrquer.ee, Mr.
Wilson has had to devise sortie new
method of taxvion, and to this end
has proposed a materia', increase ol
the income tax, the imposition of an
inheritance tax and a special tax on
the manufacture of munitioi s of var.
The proportion has bi-eu mi'de inl"n;r
ally, thus far, as Mr. WiNon is apxiptis
to learn if the Dements in Congress
will stand for these new taxes before
he commits himself to them publicly.
He is convinced that all of these taxes
will be popular, and that their impo
sition will not alone i ffvt the deficit,
but will promote his pnpu'a.ity. There
are many members of Congress who
believe that an increased incoiin' '.ax
and an inheritance t. x ill Se j.p.il.r,
but they are in douot as to how a tax
on munitions will work out. O hers
believe a natioral inheritance tax will
prove unpopular fur the reason that
this has thus far been a field left open
to the Stat4 governments, most of the
Stites deriving a very considerable
put of their income from inheritance
laxition. In the case of the tax on
munitions, th'-re is a lii;le doubt that,
could it be so imp'.s. d as to insure its
the Supreme bench as Samuel Uirer
myer, any man w'josc appointment
wnild so befoul 1'ie ermine ol that hih
t:iiunal.
Political Gossip From Washington
The readiness with which the Dem
ocratic member of the Senate judicr
Even B:a ide s is 0 as unfit I aay committee acceeded to Senator
as Uutermyer, and this is d.iubtless
realized by President Wilson, who
hopes, by the threat of nominating
Untermyer, to drive Senators into a
frame of mind where they will confirm
Bramleis merely iu desperation and as
the lesser of two evils.
A GREAT ACHIEVMENT: To Sec
retary McAdio belongs the credit for
the greatest achievement in the finan
cial history of the Government. He
is the only S-cretary who has added
887,000,000 dollars to the "net bal
ance" of the Treasury over night.
On the night of September 3J, 1915,
those who keep track of the Treasury
balance went to bed convinced that it
..un.v.ii'laJ to 540,000,000. Ou the
morning of October 1st ihey awoke to
discover t h it it am muted to 1 2 7 ,000
000. In other words, 837,000.000
had been added to the Treasury bal
ance overnight. How? By the Wiz
ard of finance, William G. McAdoo.
How had he done it? By a mere trick
ol jugglery, by a turn of the wrist, by
a manipulation of figures so nicely de
signed to deceive the American public
as to be worthy of Wall Street's ablest
practitioner of "high finance." It is
not necessary to accept anyone's word
for this. The daily Treasury state
ments are public records and may be
obtained by anyone on application.
Tney tell the story that is, half the
story. The real story was that Mr.
McAdoo, who had been practicing for
his balancing feat for some time, hud
merely add .d over 860,000,000 already
placed to the credit of disbursing ofikers
aud 823,000,000 which had been set
anart for national bank note redemtv
comir.ir out of th pockets rf the man j . . , , . . .
ulacturers it would command pretty
gMirril approval. Uut, if, as seme
fear, it will be merely passed on to the
workinxmen in these hazardous under
takings, resulting in a decrease of
wages f r thoe who perlorm tne actual
labor, it a'so vvi.l doubtless ; r jve high
ly in, popular. In any 've:n, s im"
position will serve primarily to bring
home to the people the woeful incom
petence of the Democrats in running
the G ivernment and thefr wanton dis
regard cf their own pledges of econo
my iu public expenditures.
A Contrast is methods: -Unci,
r the recent Republican Administra
tion there flowed into the Treasuiy
each month revenue amounting to ap
proximately 843,500,000. Of this
amount 822,900,000 consisted of cus
toms reveue which, except in rare in
stances, were paid by the foreign pro
ducer, while 822,600,000 was taken
from American citizens in the form of
internal taxes. Under the Wilson Ad
ministration the receipts amount to
853,100,000 a month but of this
amount only 819,000,000 is paid by
the foreigner in the form cl customs
receipts, while the balance $34,100,
000, is wrung from American citizens
in the form of special taxes on incomes
vocations, enterprise and thrift. Those
Americans who have been compelled
to pay taxes every time thcr gave a
note or renewed one, to put special
Government stamps cn every telegram
they sent and to pay a special tax on
every long-distance telephone message
they sent will appreciate the '.ruth of
the statement that for every dollar of
tax paid by the foreigner in the (orm
of tariff, the American citizen pays
81.79 in special taxes. It is largely
this gross mismanagement of the pub
lie finances which has so greatly dis
gusted a majority of American citizens
as to insure a Republicaa victory next
November.
Brandfis or Untermyer
President Wilson has encountered so
much difficulty in his efforts to compel
Senators to subordinate their Judgment
and consciences to political expediency
and to confirm Louis D. Brandeis as
Justice of the SuH'm-i Court that he
his recently tak r occasion to inspire
the story thai ii the Senate rejects
Brandeis he will name Samuel iUnter
myer. It would be difficult for Mr.
an adroit di-regar.l cf truth, had in
serted the total in his daily statement
a? a "net balance." The facts are that
the true general balance on June 30,
1913, had amounted as a result of R:
pub.ican thrift and good management
to 8141,000,000; that under Demo
eratic mismanagement this had shrunk,
by September 30, 1915, to 88,013.
000; that Mr. McAdoo felt this show
ing would be damaging to his party,
ani he de.-ided thu something must
l.e doi:e to dective the people as to
the real facts, and with that cunning
begotten ol an eulv tr lining in high
finance, he did ml hesitate to in-
cluie in the general net balance items
which did not belong there, and thus
to reduce, so far as the public was con
cerced, the Democratic deficit. But
the fact remains that 88,018,000 was
the true figure and was all the Govern
ment would have to draw upon in the
event of an emergency.
The celebration of "Uncle Joe"
Cannon's eightieth birthday in the
House afforded one of the most signi
ficant proofs of Republicon reunion.
It was the rebellion against the socal
led "Cannon rules" back in 1910, that
marked the beginning of the great Re
publican division which gave us first a
Democratic Congress and then a Dem
ocratic administration. The birthday
celebration the other day found all
elements in that early controversy join
ing in honor of the former speaker.
Nor was this reunion meiely lor social
purposes. The dale came opportunely
to demonstrate that the Republican
paaty is together once more.
When Senator Kenyon denounced
the Philippines bill as a violation of the
pledges of the Baltimore platform he
was merely bringing forward cunrila
tive evidence of the untrustworthy
character of Democratic platform pledg
es in general. To smash a plank in
the Baltimore platform has been i
commonplace occupation of the Dem
ocrats ever since they came into office
Sutherland's suggestion for a reopening
of the hearings on the Brandeis nom
ination, is regaided here as indicative
of their reluctance to confirm Brandeis
for judge. It is considered equally an
evidence of their unwillingness to bring
the question to a direct issue. They
would like to fiddle along with the
matter until Wilson changes his mind
and withdraws Brandeis' name, or un
til conditions in the Senate are such
that the buck can be passed to some
body, anybody, so lng as Brandeis is
not put on the bench and the Demo
cratic Senators can make a show of in
nocence. The West Virginia Congressional
district which has jast chosen a Re
publican to succeed a Democrat
has the distinction of having had the
PrsiJent cf the Uuited States taking a
personal part iu the campaign. Ou
one ol his numerous motor trips from
the capital "the lonely man in the
White House" rode out to Harper's
Ferry where he held conclave with the
leaders of the Democratic party in the
district and told them that the approach
ing by election must be carried at all
hazards. The returns on election
night, however, showed thit the Re
publican had won by a majority ol
several hundred.
The Democratic steering Committee
in the Senate has at last come to the
conclusion which nearly everyone else
has long held, namely that Congress
will be lucky if it can adjourn by Sep
tember. In addition to the appropri
ation bills and the other necessary
legislation which the country must
have aud which it wants there is a
considerable program of impracticable
measures whith the President insists
must be passed. There will be stiff
resistance to all of these bills, and if
Congress can get home in time to vote
it w.ll be fortnnite.
When the rural credit bill was before
the Senate, Senator Smoot endeavored
to hive an amendment adopted reduc
ing the number of Commissioners from
five to three and the salaries from 810'
000 each to 87,500 each, the same as
the salary of a Senator. This amend
medt was defeated, every vote against
it, except one, being cast by a Demo
crat, and every vote for it except one,
cast by a Republican. By rejecting
this amendment, the Democrats make
the rural credits system unneccessar'ly
top heavy. In providing for two un
necessary Commissioners, the adminis
tration incurs an expense not limited
to the 820,000 in salaries. EichConr
missioner must have an oflkd, with an
assistant, a private secretary, steno
graphers, traveling expenses, etc
The rural credit system is expected to
be self-supporting, so each added item
is a handicap to the system and a bur
den to the borrower. Yet the administra
tion that denounced the Republicans a
extravagant, insisted on the adJui.mil
Commissioners as unnecssary ai a
fifth wheel to a wagon.
Secretary Redfield has written a let
ter to one of the assistant secretaries
cf the Treasury to say that he does
not fear any lull in our trad': after the
European war is ended. There is an
old saying that 'i3 applicable to Mr.
young people are being informed in
baccala irate addresses that they have
have only put themselves in position
to learn when they are graduated from
a school. You remember probably
when sum; one told you something
like this, and you recall how hard you
tried to realize it.
But, after all, how much have you
learned since jou were part of some
graduatiug class and were handed a
parchment diploma aud told that it was
now up to you to go out and learn
something? Suppose you have reach
ed middle life, or past it; you
feel brc.idcr, ol course, and you know
you have a much fuller understanding
ol life, but don't you feel an odd pang
at your failure to have learned any
thing much really worth while jincc
your school days ended?
Possibly this is because you have
forgotten a good deal that you have
learned. You know you used to do
that in school. It is as much impos
sible to retain everything that comes
into your mental world as it is to re
tain all your weekly wages. The
big thing appears to be to chose wise
ly in that part you do retain. Some
people seem to learn only the things
they had much better forget; a few
a very lew learn oniy tnose tnings
that are worth learning; the big ma
jority of us leorn a little something
worth nothing and make out with it
because the competition in learning is
not so great alter all.
But the idea that we may go on
learning loses none of its attractiveness
because so few of ns live up to the
possibilities it implies. No person
ever gets too old, or too feeble or too
helpless to add to his stock of wisdom,
and this fact is one of the big things
tnat gie to nuke life worth the living.
Wisdom is the weapon with which we
defy late and carve happiness out of a
sad world. Joplin Globe.
At Strawberry Time
Sunshine preserves are much better
flivored than strawberries preserved in
the ordinary way and require less
work. Measure equal quantities of
strawberries and sugar, spread the ber
ries in largeshallow platters and sprinkle
the sugar over them. Set the platters
in the sunshine. A tin roof on the
sunnyside of the house is an ideal
place. Bring the berries in every
evening and put them out again in
the morning till the syrup is the desired
thickness. Cover with wire screen or
netting to keep away flies.
Strawberry Tahoca
Cook together in a double boiler 1-2
cup ol the tapioca which requires no
soaking 12 cup of sugar, 1 teaspoon
ol butter and 3 cups hot water until
the grains are clear, about 15 minutes.
Crush a pint ol 'strawberries, sweeten
to taste and let stand half an hour.
Remove the tapioca from the fire and
s'ir in the fruit, Set the pudding in a
cool place and serve it very cold with
whipped cream. Mrs. B. G. Zollinger.
SSJUSt
"It is a pretty safe guess that New
England will return to the old time
Republican majorities in November,"
said Congressman Edward H. Wason
of New Hampshire. "Our people are
tired and Weary of Democracy. The
present administration has been deaf
to the demand for protection of dye
stuffs sufficient to induce men to go
into the manufacture of the same, but
notwithstanding all of the earnest ap
peals of industry, the Ways and Means
Committee has turned a deaf ear to
their entreaties. The workingmen ol
New England know this and they real
ize how essential dyestufls are to their
employment. They will lake no chances
with a party that temporizes and docs
nothing in their behalf."
Redfield: "He who knows nothing
Wilson to find any man so unfit for feats nothing."
Tha Right to Learn
The season of graduation always
brings the pleasant thought that no
one need stop studying or learning
just because he happens ta finish some
school
Strawberry Shortcake
One-hi I cup of sugar, 1 heaping
tablespoon 1 f shortening, 3 4 cup of
seet milk, 2 egs, 2 cups of flour and
4 levi-l tablespoons of baking powder.
M x in the usual way and bake 25
minutes in a pudding pan in a mrde
rate ovrn. Wnile the cake is still
warm, cut around it about one inch
from the ouiside with a sharp knife,
being carJul not to cut the bottom.
Cut the center section into squares
and remove them with a lork leaving a
shell of the cake at sides and bottom.
Fill this hollow .-pice with rrusht d and
sweetened strawbi ries and cover with
a meringue made by beating an egg
white very stiff with 2 tablespoons of
sugar. Set the cake in the oven li;l
the meringue is browned delicately,
then dot the top with whole berries
and serve with or without cream. The
portions of cake scooped out from the
center may be used in bread pudding
next day. Missouri Ruralist.
J. H. PARRISII, Pkesident. J. W. REESE, Vics-PngsiDKNT.
S. W. BOSWELL, Cashiki.
TANEY COUNTY BANK,
Forsyth, Missouri.
Capital Stock
Surplus and Undivided Profits
825,000.00.
840,000.00.
A (ieiiural Banking Business Transacted
Collections a Specialty
Your Patronage Solicited
C. W. MOOKE, Pkesident. F. M. HALL, Vice-President.
A. B. MOORH. Cashier.
Bank of Hollister,
Hollister, Mo.
Capital Stock - - - $lo,ooo.oo.
Surplus and Undivided Profits, $2,000
Transacts a (ietieral Hanking Business.
vi: iY 1 rr.n cknt intkkkst on timi: Dja'osiTS.
T. 13. MILLS, l'rcsident M. H. SLLSIILK, Caslutr
Bank of Bradleyville
Bradleyville, Mo.
Capital Stock Paid In,
Surplus Earned,
$10,000.00
2,000.oo
Collections a Specialty
WE SOLICIT YOUR BUSINESS
J V. ML LI OX, L. G- MILLS, J. B. MILLS,
J. T- MiTIIERSON, M. 13. SLUSHER, Directors
Fine Place to Fish
Fine Place to Stop
Hotel Forsyth,
Forsyth, Mo.
Rates $2.00 per Day
S. E. MILLER,
Proprietor.
Agency Frank B. Smith Laundry
EEBC3SK3
Judge Tom Harper came up Iron)
Taney county Tuesday to see his mo
ther, returning home yesterday.- Oz
All over tbe land, just now ark Democrat.
Room With Bath,
$1.25 to $1.50
Room Without Bath,
75c to $1.00
THE
METROPOLITAN
Springfield's Oldest First Class Hotel
Jesse Nance, Manager
"MEET ME AT THE MET."
Springfield,
Missouri
