BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 61.
RARRE, VERMONT, TIIUHSDAV, MAY 25, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
TH
MORE RECOVERY
OF LOST GROUND
BY GERMANS
In Addition to Forcing the
French Out of Ft. Douau
mont by Desperate Fight
ing, They Have Obtained a
Footing in French Trench
in Haudremont Quarry
FRENCH STRENGTHEN
HOLD ON CUMIERES
There Was No Infantry Ac
tion in Douaumont Last
Night, but the Artillery
Activity, in Vicinity of
Hill 304 Was Particularly
Severe, Paris Reports
Paris, May 25. German troops made
an attack last niglit on French positions
on the Verdun front west of the Meuse
near Haudremont quarry, obtaining a
footing in one French trench, the war of
lire announces. East of Cumieres, to the
east of the Meuse, the French made some
progress in hand grenade fighting. There
was no infantry action at Fort Douamont
last night. The artillery activity was
particularly severe in the vicinity of
Hill 304 and in the sector from Dead
Man's Hijl to Cumieres.
GERMANS TELL OF SUCCESS.
Repulsed French at Cumieres and Won
Back Haudremont Quarry.
Berlin, via wireless, May 25. Three
French counter attacks on the village o
Cumieres west of the Meuse on the Ver
dun front were repulsed, the war office
announced this afternoon. The capture
of additional trench trenches southwest
and south of Fort Douaumont and the
recapture of Haudremont quarry by the
( erma ns also waa reported.
AUSTRIAN GUNBOAT
AND AEROPLANE.
WERE DESTROYED
Battle with Italian Gunboat Took Place
in Upper Adriatic An Austrian
Submarine Attacked Capital
of Island of Elba.
Romr, Wednesday, via. Paris, Thurs
day, My 25. An Austrian aeroplane
and an Austrian gunboat were destroyed
in a battle with an Italian gunboat in
the upper Adriatic, The crew of the
Austrian craft were taken prisoner.
A building on the outskirts of Porto
Ferrajo was bombarded by an Austrian
submarine, which was driven off by coast
batteries before doing great damage.
Porto Ferrajo is the capital of the Is
land of Elba and if a submarine started
from the Austrian base at Pola it must
have completely circumnavigated Italy.
STILL ON AUSTRIAN SOIL.
Italians Claim They Are Taking Up New
Lines.
Rome, Wednesday, via Tnris, "Slav 25.
The official bulletin to-night indicates
that further offensive lines have been
taken up bv the Italians who are still
on Austrian territory in the Lagarina
valley, where the attempts of the Aus
trlans to recapture the village of Marce,
15 miles south of Rovcrto. failed, and in
the Arsa valley on the direct route to
Vicenza the Austnans and Italians are
fighting on the frontier line.
MIGHT
ACCEPT
PEACE
German People Seize Upon
President Wilson's Char
lotto Speech as Making a
Possible Opening for Ex
tending His Good Offices
for Ending the War
GERMANS ARE SHY
OF BEING JOCKEYED
THE BRITISH STATEMENT.
They Do Not Wish Their
Government to Be Thrown
into Position of Suing for
Peace, Only to Have the
Entente Allies Reject the
Tender and Gain Prestige
Situation on Vimy Ridge Remains Un
changed.
London, May 25. The British official
statement waned at midnight says:
J he situation on the Vimy ridge is
nchanged. Small parties of our troops
pushed forward and engaged in hand-to-
. I RaiIiii V wlnaeJav , -. T .......... T!,..i.
To-day Wednesday there has been "v
heavy bombardment by both sides day, May 2a. The wireless dispatch from
stride the Souchez river and artillery I the United States pivinjr the substance of
ctivity near Roclincourt, the Hohenzol- p.j.1,., wil.nn'. r,orir,t i, ;
lern redoubt, Wvtschaete and St. Eloi." .... ' ,
SHIP WASHINGTON SUNK. American mediation, was given the place
of honor in the morning newspapers and
British Vessel of 5,000 Tons Falls Victim L, tftn(Hm editions return to the sub-
to a Submarine. j(fti The potent, together with the
London, May 25. The British steam- wide interest shown by the German pub
snip nasningion or o.uuu ions i mm oeen 8howg how important this news is
VERMONT "MOOSE"
TO CO-OPERATE
loyds announcement.
FURIOUS ATTACKS
WON BACK FORT
DOUAUMONT
French Ejected from the Fortress After
"Enormous Losses" for the Germans
French Retake Cumieres.
Paris, May 25. The Germans have re
occupied Fort Douamont, while the
French bold the immediate approach to
that position. This statement is made
in the official communication issued by
the French war office last night, which
fiuys that two new divisions of Bavari
ans effected the recapture after a series
of furious attacks.
"On the left bank of the Meuse the in
fantry action continued east of La Mort
Homme. Several times our artillery fire
stopped the enemy who had attempted
to debouch from the village of Cumieres.
In the course of the afternoon a spirited
counter attack enabled us to retake
'trendies situated on the southern out
Fkirt of the village.
On the right bank the bombardment
was redoubled in the region of Fort Dou
aumont, on which the enemy had partic
ularly set himself. Furious attacks with
two Bavarian divisions newly arrived on
this front succeeded each other all day.
After several fruitless - attempts and
enormous losses the enemy succeeded in
reoccupying the ruins of the fort. Our
troops hold the immediate approach.
"About the same time an attempt to
flank our positions in the C'aillette wood
completely failed under our gun fire and
the lire of our infantry."
RESEMBLES VERDUN DRIVE,
The Austrian Offensive Against Italians
Piling Up Strength.
Kome, May 25. The Austrian offensive
along the Italian front, which began
ten days ago, is assuming more and
more the character of the German offen
sive at Verdun. After having occupied
the advanced position, from which the
Italians withdrew, the Austrian are now
strengthening and organizing themselves
there. They have-concentrated additional
artillery under command of General Koe
ess anil have been attempting, but with
out success, to rut the Italians' rear
communications for supplies. The ad
vance of the Austrian has been made
more difficult by the destruction of
bridges and roads.
Italian officers estimate that between
the Adige and Brenta rivers the Austri
an have placed 2t batteries of guns of
8"5 calibre aside from many other bat
teries of smaller guns, and have brought
from the Galician and Balkan' front
fresh troops to the number of IH divi
foon. or 3!0.nu0 men.
.mero is one oi me towns that has
mtTered mot severely from the bombard
ment. Austrian prisoners say that prior to
the beginning of th offensive they wre
told that it waa the intention to capture
the Venetian province by storm, begin
ning w ith the provinoe of Vieenxa. The
Austrian officers gave order that the
Austrian soldiers one on Italian terri
tory mut not s!mw themejre weak,
but that they reii'-t not at brutally to
ward th population. They promised
that next immer the men mij-ht take
the baths at Lid", in Venii-e. on tiie Adri
atic. 1hi tetr mo emert by the Aus
trian is at r led by that "the ofle;i
to : I C valley tf th To r;er."
COURTMARTIAL FOR
116 MILITIAMEN
IN TEXAS N. G.
Secretary of War Baker Orders Immedi
ate Trial Because of Their Failure to
Present Themselves for Muster
ing Into Federal Service.
regarded here.
Though it is not definitely stated,
there is little doubt that Germany i
willing to consider the tender of good of
fice to inaugurate peace negotiations.
The former attitude in highest quarters
that America had disqualified herself as
a mediator owing to munitions shipments
to the allies is now changed. If the pres
ident can hold any tangibile responsibili
ties, that peace may result through his
mediation Germany undoubtedly is will
ing to consider suggestions.
This receptive attitude is naturally
Washington, D. C, May 25. Reversing subject to the condition that Germany
his previous decision, Secretary of War not jockeyed into the position of an
Baker announced to-day that the 1 16 nouncing her readiness to accept the pres
members of the Texas National Guard ident's good office, only to find the allies
who failed to present themselves for later rejecting the tender and asserting
muster into the federal service will lie that Germany is suing for pence. There
immediately brought to courtmartial un- equally little doubt that the masse
der the present law. Secretary Baker aside trom the professional news)aper
had intended awaiting the signing of the hotspur, would be willing to see America
new militia, law now before President n me peace intermediary role despit
Wilson and proceeding under its provi
sions.
Secretary Baker pointed out that the
Dick law rtquirc an obligation to do-
fend the constitution and obey the gov-
ernors but not the presidents orders,
while the Hav-Chamberlain bill requires
an oath to obey the orders of both the
governor and the president. Judge Ad
vocate General Crowder recommended
the persisting bitterness over the muni
tions shipments.
PEACE IMPOSSIBLE NOW.
Sir Edward Grey Said in Address
House of Commons.
to
London, May 25. In an impromptu
speech in the House of Commons las
that the Guardsmen be tried under the Ugh " the question of peaca and th
Dick law as the alleged offense was com- propriety of "employing the America
.... ..... 1 .... . i... t 1 . .
muted under mat law. m""i ""i'vw uhhwi i
edly raised by Arthur l'onsonby, liberal
STAND BY DISCIPLINE CLAUSE. member for Stirling, Scotland, m a strong
address attacking the government for al
Methodist General Conference Voted 435 lowing diplomatic etiquette to stand in
ka p.t.i n the way of possible peace pour parlers
" I Kir Vi lu. or? tlrtatr flia Ttrititli fr.rni.Tt-i
otw.i.M r-prmKH, x.f uy 1 it? -rnfarv Rif. i. n fill ulna ihh nffl.
fl7181 funeral conierence reiuwa to- negotiations wcro possible at the present
uj . l(, o.,.. in...R tage and p ainly reiterated that the jk.
unuw iumiiii a n-iinuav ill VA lu 111' 'II I Mignffcd
frftm ilia ftiiir(.Vi rf ma tvi Kit. j U' tin v.l.iil ... . ... ... I
.. .. . ,.....,., ,. .. hlr j.,jwar(i declared that it was lm
cirds, dance and attend the theatre. .m. .,rma of n... ift
out a previous agreement between the
entente allies, further, he expressed the
decided opinion that the hostilities had
not yet reached a stage where It was
possible to talk of peace, especially as
the German public waa constantly be
ing "fed with lies" bv their ministers.
Mr. Ponsonby's reference to the use of
GAME FORFEITED TO CHELSEA.
Whitcomb High School Claimed Infrac
tion of Rules.
Chelsea, May 25. Wliitcomh high
school of Bethel refused to continue the
game against the local hiirh school team
here yesterday afternoon and the game t lie American press as a "platlorm was
waa forfeited to Chelsea, ! to 0, Whit- the outgrowth of a recent interview with
comb had scored their only run in the! Sir Edward Grey. Sir Edward in re
first inning and Chelsea had not scored plying to this attack, while admitting
previous to the sixth. Then, with two that important disclosures of policy
down. Farnham waa hit bv the pitcher I oiurlit first to be made to l arliament
and Beal misj'udged Morse's bard hit fly,
Farnham scoring and Morse taking third.
Here Whitcomb stopped the game, claim
ing that Farnham in rounding third bnse
did not touch the bap and the umpire
forfeited the game to Chelsea upon Whit
comb s refusal to take the field again.
The game was developing into a pitch
ing due between Adams and Began, each
having allowed his opponents only three
hits. Adorns also bad 10 strikeouts to
his credit. A fat double plav, Morse to
torwin, also featured.
TOOK DIVE TO DEATH.
Lieut. James V. Rockwell was Trainin
for Aviator.
Pensarola, Kla.. Mav 25. Lieut. .Tames
Vincent Rockwell, a civil engineer, in the
V. S. navy, who was in training as an
aviator here, was killed yesterday when
a navy aemplane which he was piloting
dived I art feet into the (rulf.
Lieut. Rock ell, ho was 39 year old.
was born in Indiana and appointed to the
service from Ioa. His three little chil
dren saw him fall.
argued that a crisis might arise during
the war when consideration of etiquette
should not be allowed to stand in the
way. He contended that since German
statesmen constantly were giving inter
views and statements to the American
press, it would be mere pedantry which
would hinder British statesmen from
countering these statements in the in
terests of their own country.
MARRIED JACK CLIFFORD.
Ere era Jfesbit Thaw Again Takea a
Husband.
New York, Mar 25. Ke?yn Nehit
Thaw. bo wis divorr-H by Harry K.
Thaw !t tnrnth, and Jaek " I . fford. I er
daiK-irg partner, returned We lt i t
aftr a haotr trip tn Baltimore, and an
nounced that ther had been tnarrp-d in
Maryland.
STRANGELY MISSING.
Col. Wwthrop M. Merrill Disappeared
Much as His Father Did.
Boston. May 25. The police have been
asked to locate Col. Winthrop Mi not Mer
rill, prominent in the National Guard of
this state and in politic a decade ago
ho has been missing from his home for
several weeks.
Tenty-three years ajro. bis father.
M ody Merrill, one of Boston a foremost
citizen, disappeared, and . Uter waa
brmia-ht b. to answer indictment
charging embexlement.
With Any Party Which Will Try to
Make Progressive Party Principles
Effective in Development of Amer--lean
Ideals Delegates Elected.
Burlington, May 25. The mass con
vention of the Progressive party at th
roof garden of Hotel Vermont yesterday
afternoon elected the following delegates
to the national convention of the party
in Chicago next month as follows:
Delegates at largo: Rev. FraBcr Metis
ger of Randolph, Joseph C. Jones of Rut
land, E. W. Gibson of Brattleboro ami
Prof. Raymond McFarland of Middl
bury.
District delegates: v . II. Nichols o
Bennington, W. K. Eaton of Woodstock
O. A. Rixford of Highgate and Albert G.
Kice of Rockingham. ?
Alternates: Marclt M. Wilson of Ran
dolph, 1). E. Martin of Rutland, G. L.
Pease of Burlington, W, H. Humphrey
of Burlington, Ir. 1 nomas Rice of Brat
tleboro, F. II. Pope of Bennington, F.r
nest Kelley of Salisbury and Henry Bur
gess of Newport. I
On motion of A. H, Townsend of this
city it was voted that any vacancies ov
curring in the list of delegates or" alter
natea should be filled by the members of
Uie executive romnuttee.
Eraser Mctzger then rose to state that
the convention should go on record as
to the sentiment of Progressives in er
mont and made a motion that the chair
man appoint ft committee to draft an.?
present resolutions. The chair appointed
aa momoers ot the committee Mr. Mctz-
ger, i'rof. Kaymoml SlcFarland, fc. H.
Russell of Burlington, Mr. Lovejoy and
U. It. Rixford of Highgate.
Followihir are the resolutions presented
by the committee and adopted by the
convention:
"We re-assert our belief in the princi
ples of the Progressive party as adopted
1812 and emphatically express our
selves as loyal to the party which has
iiampioned those principles, )e further
esire to go on record as not beinjr un
qualifiedly partisan in our attitude and
stand ready to co-operate with any party
men will honestly and patriotically en
deavor to make those principles effective
in the development of American ideals.
"We believe that the issues of the day
are of an order that cannot be ignored
by any party or loyal citizen, and in
asmuch as these have to do with the dig
nity and worth of the American nation
and true American citizens, we believe
that no citizen can be silont on these
vital questions. Inasmuch as these is
sues have been most effectively brought
before the American people through the
clear vision and courageous leadership of
Theodore Roosevelt, we. .gratefully ex
press our appreciation of this invaluable
service and gladly accord to him our im
plicit confidence.
"Our delegates to the national Progrea-
sive convention are asked to consider
these resolutions and are requested to
so act at the convention as will in their
Judgment result in the best good and
welfare of our country."
Previous to the adoption of the reso
lutions there were seeches by several
in the convention. Fraser Mctzger stated
that the issues at present before the ua
tion which had arisen during the past
four years were larger and ot more im
portance than those of 1914. Conditions
now existing in the government are due
to the weakness of the administration.
While Roosevelt is the man for nomina
tion as president the question is not that
he is the only one but thafc. virile leader
ship sueh as his is needed to put America
at the forefront where she belongs. The
one man who would most effectively lead
along these lines is Roosevelt. The dele
gates sent to the national convention by
Vermonters must be followed by the
thought and prayera of the Progressives
back in this state, that partisanship be
forgotten and patriotism may come to
the forefront so that best reaulta may
be detained.
Near the close of the meeting Profes
sor McFarland spoke in appreciation of
the work in Vermont done bv Dr. If. Nel
son Jackson, whose faithful efforts in
the Progressive party, said Professsor
McFarland, entitle him to any respect
and vote the party can. give him. Mr.
Nichols of Bennington and several oth'
era in the convention also spoke in ap
preciation of Dr. Jackson's work. lr,
lackson, when called upon, spoke of the
pleasure it had been to him to meet the
good fellows found in the party which
is not only working for the strengthen
ing of itself but for the good of the
state. He gave it as his opinion that
Hughes was not in it as compared with
Roosevelt, whom he felt sure would be
nominated at both the Progressive and
Republican conventions. Dr. Jackson was
given a rising vote of thanks.
INDICTED AS
HEAD OF REVOLT
Sir Roger Casement Held by
Grand Jury for a
Trial
REPUBLICANS
GATHERING IN
MONTPELIER
BAILEY INDICTED
A O t A rrrM TT Tr'TP who P1,n lo "ttend the gathering
AO ilLUUMI LiLKjCj believed that practically all of t
Report from Dublin Says
Very Little Interest in
Trial Is Shown There
Vail, Cushing, Bailey, Graves, Prouty and
More Are Believed to Be Fairly Certain
of Election to National Convention
A Washington County Fight
in Prospect.
Delegate to the Republican state con
vention, to he held in the Moutpelier city
hall auditorium to elect eight delegates
and eight alternates to the national con
vention at Chicago, commenced to arrive
to-day and it is expected that the even
ing trains will bring a majority of those
. It is
he till
delegates from the 2-16 towns in the state
will be present when the convention is
called to order at 10 o'clock to-morrow
forenoon 'and, in addition, many of the
alternates and persons throughout the
state who are interested in politics will
no doubt lie interested onlookers.
Stanley C. Wilson of Chelsea, chair
man of the state committee, will be the
presiding officer at the opening session
Frank E. Howe of Bennington having,
however, been chosen as chairman. The
secretary has not vet been chosen.
Senator Ixwrence . Sherman of Illi
nois will not reach Montpclier until early
In the afternoon, making the trip from
200-LB. ROCK
KH"ED MAN
,0
London, May 5. The grand jury to
day returned a true bill against Sir Roger
Casement as the leader of the Sinn Fein
revolt, and against Daniel J. Bailey, a
former British soldier, who waa held as Rutland by automobile, being scheduled
an accomnlice ' to uenver an aaaress in New lorn i ny
i ..;
me juuge nxeo me ume jor mo trial n, . f . raa, ,
of tWment on June 20. L,.t'j w . !,.,. t,
Dublin. May 25. Astonishingly little d(, ftti , h m , to Chicago
interest is displayed here in the trial of nPxt montll Jt ig flwl prwllcted
Kir Roger CaBement. Both in political the folowin candidates are sure '
ana general circles l asement was almost
entirely unknown here, before the war
nd the Importance attached to his con
ection with the Sinn Fein revolt in Eng
land and abroad is not quite understood
n this country.
that
mg candidates are sure to tie
elected: Theodore N. Vail, John T. Cush
ing, Guy W. Bailey, Collins Graves', es'
Governor Gorge H. Iroutv and E. R
Morse. The remaining two to make tip
the total of eight will probably be taken
from a quartet of candidates, Windsor
and Washington counties, with Frederick
If. Babbitt of BellowsJalls and If. J. M.
Jones of Montpclier appearing the strong-
FOUND WOMAN DEAD ;.. ... ... ' :1,
x nc ui uit ill wjiu-i me. ocieHurn 111
be chosen is, of course, unknown and, in
fact, others than those named may be
substituted, although those mentioned
above seem to constitute the slate.
Arrangements are being made this aft
ernoon and evening for the seating of
the delegations from tne different coun
ties in the hall and the credentials com
mittee is preparing for business. The
adoption of a platform to be presented
by Judge C harles H. Darling ot Burling'
WENT TO MAKE CALL;
Misa Martha Campbell of 31 Pleasant
St. Was Overtaken By Death While in
Midst of House Work Glass of Pari
Green Caused Autopsy No Trace
of the Poison Was Found.
When Mrs. Alex Young of Eat street
opened the door of the second story tene-
;sto Aja Struck at Jones
Bros.' Light Quar
ry To-day ,
FOUR OTHERS HAD
NARROW ESCAPES
The Rock Became Dislodged
at Top of the
Quarry
Modesto Aja, aged 28, a Spanish quar-
rynian, waa killed at Jones Bros.' light
quarry in Websterville this morning at
8 o'clock when a granite block, weighing
2(H) pounds, toppled from the bank of
the quarry, dropped a distance of 75
feet and struck him in the side. Four
other quarrymen, engaged with Aja in
nuing a grout; txix, narrowly escaped
death, one of their number, a man named
Cayas and a compatriot of the dead man,
having his trousers torn nearly from his
body. Dr. X. E. Avery of East Barre
was summoned, but .Aja passed awav
within a few moments after the accident.
Internal injuries are believed to have
been responsible for his death, although
his right lower limb was practically torn
from the trunk as the weight of the
stone bore the man to the bottom of too
quarry.
The, hody waa taken to Whitcomb's
undertaking establishment in East Barre.
It is probable that the funeral will bo
held in St. Sylvester's church at Granite
ville Saturday morning at 9 o'clock. Rev.
Joseph Turcot will officiate and inter
ment will be made in the Catholic ceme
tery on Bcckley street in this city.
Men employed at the quarry said that
wo pieces of stone came hurtling down
he quarry side when Aia was killed. It
ia thought that the smaller fragment of
ment at 31 l'leamnt street Wednesday "7." -7 is moiignt, tnat, tne smaller tragment
afternoon at 4 o'clock to call on Mi to";' l1" committee appomt- ,tone, in Mling from what in known
Martha Campbe sl found the body of T' :r:, V ,,; ,, 'f . " ' r"" ' U,K 0,UB lUK
the woman she was about to visit lving "te' w'.th the d''. Frart,0.R,1J aJ ff dislodged a larger stone, although it waa
on the floor of the kitchen. Life was' ex STmi PWr efi the4 nia" frm"t thilt Aja.
I-... --j - x- 1-... -.r.. the delegates will be given instructions. Aia waa horn in Knain 2 veara ntro.
unci anu a lew u
iiomeius wier Jirs. T1, , ;t(,,i f 0jt: w , . ' .--
Vonnr waa callina- Dr. .1. W. Stewart . 1 r. .,h oeing a native ot ,aiitander, wnence
- n n nmthnn will nrntvahiv nlinnnt nn v t hiViP I . a i i. a. a .
city h.lth officer, bv telephone. rnd "r" .. r". . 1 .. 1 r m".v 01 ",s counirymen 10 me
Juror William Winhart and Offieer Harrv ,wnose P'"nce ion cerui.n man is Barre granite field. He emigrated to
ftamhl of h. nolien force were also KI'r!wn- . ..... America five years ago and came imme-
aaked to. visit the apartmentf." Appar-h?.r!" :Jj:!-A !u 'j:H.!TZ uTAZ to RarrB Town, settling in Web-
ently the woman had been dead several V I- . IT """" 116 hlM "u(1 a"
hours. On the floor beside her waa a . : T'". I'VJ "J ' ugliter in ebsterville and there
.mo., i i '' iii.u.i r"- are seven brothers residing 111 .pain.
sioie is eigiiL. 1 ne convenuon wm Proi- jlrs j080ph cno of Granite street,
ably decide whether Or not the entire Harre is a rnnain of the Head nnarrvmnn.
: l. i...n u J..1.J ...1 . 1. . I . ... . '. '
riui, hiikii t.-u 01. ii; ui in ancl yrs- A Ciataros, a sister, resides in
a. t. .. a : ... : 1 1 l j : . . . j .1 : j il. I 7
tne cwiMwiinun win ins uivjuru iruv l,,c MaSRachuSCttfl
f iav-w fliatriota with rho ma n It i nrr nlOi1 I rk 11 d I
a lAnailafa KIa nnanti'f ir lO -i a rT.ti I . ' I
broom, and a pile of dust neatly swept
into a corner indicated that, death had
overtaken Mis Campbell while she was!
at her work.
A water glass on the table containing
set the authorities to thinking about the
an equal number of representatives, it
cause of the woman's demise, w ith the iR Delievedi , the difltrict
resu t that an autopsy was ordered by tiom hav(, bw,n heM and it ig not MaPt,v
CLAN'S 32D ANNIVERSARY
Dr. .Stewart. The body was removed to
and
DEAD THREE DAYS.
Lewiaton, Me, Cup!e Died from Gas
Fotsoning.
IwLton. Me.. May 2-V Mr. sal Mr.
Kimer A. Ciitkt. ra.-h a;rd o. nere
found dea1 at tSelr bone v"tftav.
IteatJi r'n"un'"-d do t- jf ....n.
ina. In tJe fp:nwn of tt rr, : et- i ,-. tr.K r.it a I t'
amiiHT. the ii.l b1 twn djid at 1 - . p.riil.if
)at Ure da j.
WILSON POLICIES ,
COMMENDED BY
VERMONTERS
State Democratic Convention, Held in
Burlington To-day, Elected Eight
National Delegates, Two
After Contests.
Burlington, May 25. The Democratic
state convention here to-day elected eight
elcgates to the national convention av
St. Ioni as follows: James K. Kennedy
of Williston, P. H. Pollard of Cavendish,
H. Duffer of Rutland. H. K. Pond f
Berkshire. Eliha Bigelow of Lyndonville,
E. Luce of Stoe. Harry C. Shurtlelf
of Montpclier and '. G. Iirirk of Fa r
avrn. The deb-irtet were empowered
hoii.f their own alternate. There
ere eof!tet on the seenth snd eighth
!eete. I
The e.nvrntion had ii (I'Vciim. Ket.
R. Resrdon of Brre was rhairmsn
d Harry C. Witters of St. .I,.! i,hui v
M-rr'ar . t n:rman Kiarions
pee. h lauded Prei.lent ilon. urs?l
Vermont IVm'-nt to form Wilm rlu'-
and bUmed the IVpuhln ans for tinpre
pnr.ine.. The r-!iition -el were brief.
They avertf,1 fa th in I he frin.if 'e
lVi,Tt- an! rule of hr pe, fir a.
'Z :rt ' rt ..i 'f b a ier. r. .
if lfn .1 . :i !,".
ffate.ir.aorL p m-
the undertaking establishment of Perry this year
K .iSoonan in iepoi square, wnere a punt
mortem examination of the remains was
made thk forenoon. Ir. Stewart being
assisted by Dr. O. G. Sticknev, who had
been treating Miss Campbell for a com
plication of diseases sinec the winter of
1014. No traces of poison were found i
the viscera and permission was given to
prepare the body for bunal.
For some time Miss Campbell had lived
alone. Her nephew, Francis Barril, left
the citv early in the year for Hartford
Conn., where he is employed in an arm
plant. Mr. Barril was notified of hi
aunt's death by telephone last night and
funeral arrangements are not to be mad
until his arrival in the citv late thi
afternoon.
The family of Alex McHaffie, a plumber
occupies the first -story tenement of the
house. They recall bavins seen Miss
Campbell working in her garden durin
the forenoon and us late a.s 11:4. o'clock
she was seen entering be:
the rear entrance.
ward they heard a noise aa of someone
falling. It is thought that Miss Camp
bell .may have suffered an attack of heart
failure at that time, as the doctors who
performed the autopsy to-day were in
dined to attribute her death to heart
failure.
The deceased was around ;"0 rears ol
snd was a native of Scotland. She had
lived in Barre several vear. So far a
is known the only near relative is Jame
B. Campbell, who was formerly enfragei
here in the granite business. Mr. Camp
bell is in the Wet at the present time
clear what procedure will be established
ing ber apartments by
A few' momenta after-
WHEELER MATHIES0N.
ClETneB 3' J.
Wedding Took Place at Bride's Home,
35 Ayers Street, To-day.
Miss Kathcrine R, Mathieson. daugh
ter of Mrs. Alexander Mathieson. was
married at her home. n. Avers street.
this forenoon at 10 o'clock to Allert W.
Wheeler of Montpclier. the ceremony be
ing performed bv Rev. .1. . Harnett.
pastor of the Congregational churoh. in
the ire!enie of relatives and intimate
friends of the bride and groom. The
bride was attended by Miss Mary A
Walker, and (Tinton F. Millar acted as
eroomsman. I he double nne service was
ised ami the parlor, where the ceremony
ook place, was attractively decorated
with apple blossoms and lilies of the
valley. .!is Ethel Gamble played strains
from Warner's opera. Ijohenjtrin. as the
bridal party entered the parlor. The
bride was gviwrped in white emhroi.lered
oile and carried a shower bouquet of
lilies of the valley. Her bridesmaid wore
pink crepe de chine an-d carried pink
iweet pe.
After Ttie ceremony there was an in
formal rei-eption and light refreshment
were .cMcd by Mr. Fred F. Cutis and
Alin .amh!e. Mr. and Mrs. Wheeler
left the city at n.n for Bton. They
will I at home in Mntpelier after June
I.
The bride i a well known Barre
ymnc woman, who has h"n engage,! f.r
t'ne pt sevrn years as I brarian at tie
Aldri. h pibl'C I hraT-y. She wa a grt I
uat- from Spa tilling high S.oI in the
,U I',. Mr. h!-r la t-rn a:
r..t.ft ft M..)t j In r im e hw4 a" 1 j
was f.-rmerlr en-.l"id ly th loadi-
Uated Lfe-t itg to. in P-rra,
Was Observed at Entertainment
Dance Last Evening.
The 32d anniversary of the founding of
Clan Gordon, No. 12, O. S. C, was fitting
ly observed in the clan rooms last even
ing when over 200 clansmen, their wives
and friends and members of the ladies
auxiliary, which is affiliated with the
men's organization, came together for an
I'nless something entirely unforeseen
occurs the onlv contest worthy of the
name will be waged between Hugh J. M.
Jones of Montpelicr and George E.Moody
of Waterburj'. In the county Jones
looks to have the majority of the del
irates. Barre and Montpclier delegations
having gone on record as being in . favor entertainment and dance. It was just 32
of Jones. years ago May 23 that Clan Gordon was
The bringing together of several hun- organized, it being the 12th clan to be.
dred persons actively interested in state started in this country. At that time,
politics is expected to bring out numer- tnp building up of such an organization
mis discussions relative to the senatorial was no mere trifle and it was only with
campaign, a campaign which promises,to tfe aid of such men as the late William
be extremely interesting, and some line Barclay that a-permanent foundation
on the strength of several persons who w mnde for the future of the society,
have announced, or Jt is believed will The early lieginning of the clan was told
nhortlv make known, their candidacies, in a brief but interesting manner by the
mav- be obtained. chief, William Hurry. He also took o.
The Republican stafe committer met casion to welcome the company and in
this afternoon at the Pavilion hotel and vited all to join in the festivities,
will make plans for the seating of the A musical program was carefully ar-
delegates and the handling of the ticket,
both for members of the convention and
visitors.
A GRAND JURY TERM.
Also June Term in Orange County Court
Will Be Long.
Chelsea. Mav 25. The June term of
Orange county court will be a grand jury
term, so to siieak, since a grand jury will
be called this term for the fir.at time since
June, !13. there being matters to be in-1 joved.
vest iga ted which the statutes require to
be brought before a grand jury. Th
following named men have been drawn
to serve as such from the towns followi
ng: Bradford. A. Reginald Crewe: Brain-
tree, George v . Hngg; Hrookfield. ( lar
ence W. l iarK; l neisea, waiter if. i-.m
erv and Marshall A. Carpenter: Corinth
H. A. Jackman; rairlee, .lohn . Davi;
New burv, Oscar A. Renfrew; Orange
George W. Davis; Randolph, Fred I.
Dudley; Strafford. Homer H. Kendall:
Thetford, C. A. Adims; Topsham, George
E. Newton; Tunbridpe. Benjamin luck
er; ershire. I.. 1.. Koomson; warning-
ton. Rufus K. Abhott; Wet Fairlee
William Paul; Williamstown, Joshua F
Bai'.ey.
The following name have been drawn
petit jurors: Bradford. George W.
French and Nelson R. larlinir; Bra in -
tree. P. W. Flint and Charles lias
Brookfield, Vane N. Wardner and Volney
O. Farr: Che!ea. . H. (liamberlaiti
nd L. H. Bacon; Corinth. Fred H
nd Fred Jewell: Fairlee. James Hood
nd Ens-Tie E. Still; Newbury. Harlie I).
ulton and F. E. Gorham: "ranee, ILarrr
lak'
ranged by the committee ami it was sure
ly a great credit to the.e men, for every
number was so well rendered that par
ticipants were obliged to respond with
an encore. A mixed chorus iind for lis
opening number the. "Miller's Wooing."
This was followed by the rendering of
MaeGregor's Gathering, by Harry Clark
in a most stirring manner. .Mis -Mica
Walker was heard in "I Hear You Calling
Me." G. J. Seacer of the South Barre
schools entertained the audience with
two choice readings that were much en-
Mv Ain Folk," bv Mis Asnes
Keith, was very nicely sung. "There Yh
a Ijid. liy t lie chorus, completed ute
program.
An orchestra composed of Miss Regain
Spear and James Riley furnished music,
for dancing until a late hour. Qundrillef.
reels and present day dancing was in or
der. Ihinng the evening refreshments of
ice cream, rake, waters and truit. w-
served to the company. All ajreed th.it
a pleasant evening had been spent.
BARRE RESIDENT TWO YEARS.
William R. O'Brien Died This Morning
After Two Months' Illness.
William R. O'Brien paired away at hia
home, 30 West street, this mornina at
7:1" o'clock, the end following an illness
of two month. I)eath was due to com
plications. He i survived by his wite
and two children. Kiissd! O'Brien and
Dorothy O'Brien. He als- leave two sis
ter. Mrs. George Chapman of Wet ( a-
naao. N. II . and Airs, ,101m .-vewman 01
RoIindale. Ma.. and two brothers. Wat-
and Girtrge F.. Roger.; Randolph. er T. OT.rien of IWton and Sorden
larenee A. vWfr'ter end let or A.
Grant; Strafford. 1 . Adams and Eu-
. ft. a g 1 . - a ... - ,
fTif turiieii: 1 nniTi, r re,i .Ai.irien
and R. S- Howard; TopsKam. Sidney M.
Hood and William E. t hamberlin; Tun
briifie. Edward '. Bugb-ee and Curtis E.
Brown: Yerhire. 7.. C. Slee;-r and
Goorre E. t.r: Wa-h:ncton. C1'are
Tapbn and W. F. Huhaaav : Wet Icn
le. H. H. Titos and .! H. E-tman:
Wii'iamt.w n. N'ornaa .1. Prut and
Oarlca I.. Harvard.
The outlo- k i t'lat the .T-ine term will
be an uni'iliy 1"H2 term for Orar-re
riit,tr. - th" t r ' 1 a'niar how that
t'rre are l nvil a-s t tor tr I rr
irv and t pfeer-t ir 'va'in are tht
lH mmiml d--i k 't .'.I ai- h- of un-1
yl lerpf X
t'Brien of Wet ( snaan. Mr. O'Brien
-r.arriace to Mi-? Mary Da Hen took pla.-
in l!ton 1" vrars aj".
Tiie dvaed vrn on Prime Ed
ward I-I.ind in lT'i and pv'd mot of
hi hovhood in the viein ty of hi birth.
As a rounc n-an he wert to Bton.
mortric t liarre two year ;. He waa
l.Ia. km'th br trade and l ad teen em-
p.ve- pv 1 aeqoer i'T'. on .'irrmer
treft and at the M.Ie-d i thr on S-m-
inary tre-t. H w a a ire m her of the
("at!-die l.nr !i.
Fiireral --rvi.e w i( prohah'r I hri
a St. Mri'-" cor. h hat'ir-'ar irm-
t 9 oV!.k. The fur-h pr e-t. Ef.
I'.' f U Kerra. will ! ae an 1 irtr
rnt w : 1 I mfi in t e Catboiic !
eterr i s l k'-y strert.
i
