q -. . .
A,{
___K______1_F__ PERF PI.INS COUNTY SUBSCRIPDOLLAR P
F #blished 187 1--Volume 46. PICKNS. S. C., MAY 25, 1916
1~~~;S S ..s ... .. .f; .. .5 .
$utoi for. June Ternh of Court'
e. summer term of court for Pick
ens courity will convene here Monday,
June.'5, .with Judge Tom Joe Mauldin
pksIdig The docket. is light. Fol
16wIg .s the list of' petit jurors drawn
to serve during this term*.,
S. Wade -Wjliams V. H. Herd
Oeo. B. Williams Calvin M. Smith
C..N. Morgan W. K. Swaynghame
L, L. Lackey W. N. Jones
W. L. Pickens L. W. Nations.
Jas. W. Rice Wayman H. Cassell
G. Nelson Varrett W. L. James
R. T. J esley C.- C. Gillespie
R. L. Hannah W. L. Capps
L. N. Couch R. L. Rlgdon'
R. B. Brown John Chapman
J..Luther Hughes Hovey C. Seaborn
C. Y. Marchbanks B. Frank.Fartner
W. F. Welborn B. C. Robinson
McD. Chappell B. C. Holcombe
W Benton Robinson W. F. Christopher
F.,G; Bunker P. 0. Wilson
Ernest M Ellenburg Jan. D. Ellenburg
(Liberty Mill No. 2)
Irvin Gillespie Dead
1vin Gillespie, 29 years of age,
-'raday morning in the'Anderson
pneumonia. . He had been
one week.
illespie is a son of ..D. Gilles
lives near Liberty, in Pickerns
-He was'taken ill about a week
ad was taken to the Anderson hos
Al. The illness had gotten such an
Avantage that his life was soon -de
-spared of, and Thursday morning he
died. The funeral was held at Flat
Rock church Friday.
Mr. 'Gillespie was a fine typeof-young
man. Almost perfect physicadly and
well known and respected in hie com
munity. A great big, flee looking
young man,robust as could be imagined
and beloved by everyone who knew
him.
Recital By Music Class
Amid.afppropriate and attraetiive sur
roundings seleven' pupils of Miss Elinor
;KnighV's music class gave an entertain
ing recnia to a- large and interested
audience in -the 84hool auditoriun last
Friay ev.ening. .. tb ber e ered
was liberally Just befobie
-the close 4f Prof. Melton
delivered 'to M !OMcFadden and
.Maritaret oacand eer.tificates-of com
pletion of the elementary course *f
music and also presented to each of
these young ladies a handsome prize for
:being present at every scheduled lesson
-during the pwt term.
The work of evry.pupil was splendid,
-but we must make special mention of
the work -of little Misses Nan Newton
and Margaret Valley, who Nvere the
-favoiltes of the audience.
The pupils who took part in the recital
were Misses Elinor McDaniel, Kate
Cureton, Margaret Garland, Luele and
Kathleen Harris, Bernice Carey, Ina
-McFadden, Nancy Newton and Margaret
Valley and Theo 'Smith and Robert
Melton.
Miss Knight is a musie teacher of
mnuch ability and the recital Friday night
reflected credit upon bo0th class and
teacher.
Grogan-Bruce
Invitations reading as follows have
been received in Pickens:
Judge and Mrs. George C. Groga'n
requests the presence of your
company at the marriage of their
daughter
.May Starke
to
Mr. James Hlagood Bruce
on Tuesday evening, June t he sixth, at
& half after six o'clock
At Home
Elberton, Georgia.
Pickens Co. News 40 Years Ago
From The Sentinel, May 25, 1876.
There is not enough criminal business
to justify the holding of sessions of
court for the June term, and none will
lMrs. Susan Kernnemore died at the
r'esidence of her son-in-law, Mr. A braham
Roe, in this county, on Friday, the 19th
inst., aged 94 years.
There will be a mass meeting of the
citizens of Pickens county at this place
on Saturday, the 8d: of June, Wtake!
Mnto consideration'the propriety, or im
propriety of resisting by legal iheans
thd payment of sthe railroad tax.
The second seselon of the Easley high
school 'will begin TFueaday, June.- 6.
Prof. J. Q:'.Stockman is principal.
W. C. Field, Esq,, will 'accept pr'
thienks for a fine mess of, beans, Iridh
potatoes and radishes.
Married, by 'J .! N eJbel'y Mt his
re Ience,. iy. 1 1916, Miss VIola
P . No 3.
Miss Mauldin D($ng Good Work
The home demonstratlon , work' is
making a great progros- in our county.
Seven Women's olubs are now'studying
uider the supekvision of Miss Mauldin.
More than twenty.women have already
begun to. use 'the fireless cookers. and
iceless refrigerators in their homes.
The canning club girls are also doing
good work despite the ,dry weather.
Mrs. Dora D. Walker, state agent, vis
ited our community last week and gave
the girls many helpful ouggestions as
to triansplanting nd "'cltivating their
tomatoes.. She paid our girls many
compliments on their good work;
Merl4 Hendricks of the Oolenoy 'dlub
has already completed th'e transplant
ing to her tenth acre. This was the
first that Mrs. Walker had seen in the
state which had been finished. Merle
deserves a great deal of credit for her
energetic efforts.
No Unse Against Furman I4older
Dr. W. F. Flowers, a veterinary sur
geon of Easley, was arrested in that
town Monday night, May 15, and his
Overland car was confiscated by the
town when the policemen found four
gallons of whiskey in it.- He was tried
by the town authorities and fined $100,
$25 of which was suspended during good
behavior. The automobile will be sold
in Easley to the highest bidder.
Furman Holder of Pickens was driv
ing the car at the time of the arrest
and has come in for a great deal of un
deserved notoriety on account of it, and
he wants some correction made about
it. It 'Was published broadcast that he
was arrested, locked up and would be
tried in two courts on account of it,'
when as a matter of fact he was never
locked up and has not and will not be
tried in connection with this unfortun
ate affair. At Doctor Flowers' trial
the doctor swore that Mr. Holder was
dri ving the car for him because he <Dr.
Flowers) was intoxicated and unable to
drive, and that Mr. Holder did noteven
know the whiskey was in the car.
Monday Dr. Flowers made a trip above
Pidkens to see some sick horses and on
his way back to Easley he stopped at
J. D. Holder's to see a hqrse which he
Lhad 'been treating for -Mr. Holder. See
ing the doctor's condition 'and fearing
that he would be unable to get safely
home by himself Mr. Holder telephoned
his son Furman to come over and drive
the doctor to his home in Easley. This
Furman agreed to do and when they
got to Easley the policemen' made the
arrest.
Norris News Notes
(Too Late for Last Week.)
Ollie Rice left Saturday morning for
North Carolina for a two weeks' visit.
Miss Louise Rhodes, a charming
young lady of Swanee, Ga.. is spending
the remainder of the spring tt "Hill
Crest", the home of her brother and
sister-in-law, M. C. Rhodes.
Hunter's Mill, two miles north of
town, is becoming a popular resort for
townspeople from here and Liberty.
Since the spring season opened fishing
parties, dinders, picnics and motorists
have found this a place for recreation.
J1. Chandler is the electrician at the
power house and comes highly recom
mended. A force of hands under the
supervision of Mr. $ullivan are at wvork
making more improvemenlts. F. Len
hardt of Easley was a week-end visitor
here in the interest of the mill.
Tom Garrett, son of Mr. and Mrs. J.
C. Garrett, is at home on a short vaca
tion trip from Panama. His friends
are delighted to have him back in our
midst again.
Miss Stella Wood, wvhose home is in
Asheville, N. C., but a returned mis
sionary from India, gave an interesting
and profitable lecture at Smith's Chap
el last Thursday night. Miss Wood ex
pects to return to her work this fall.
Misses Mildred Southard and Carrie
Kay, of Connecticut and Belton, Ga.,
respectively, were the guests of Mr.
and Mrs. I. D. Rice recently.
Come along with the news, "Susie,"
"Happy Kid" and "Brunette." Jenjoy::
ed reading your interesting missives
immensely.
Susie, do you really miss "News
entcher"? Well, she's been teaching
-in the same position you have been.
NEwSCATCHER.
A delivery wagon, a street car 'and
an automobile met In collision in Green
ville baturday afternoon an the driver
of the delivery wagon was painfully in
jured. The automobile was being driv
~n by Paul Hester of near Pickens and
WvAs occupied by himself and sisters,
i$isses Pearle, Lois and Susie Hester,
~d.Misses Fannie and Ella May Smith.
~one of them were injured, but the 'au.
tmobile was damtaged some.
JOfHN A. HORTON
"The People's Candidate" for Congress
M
*1
To the Voters of the Third CongressionalI District:
I am a firm believer in the rule of the people.
I regard a public office a.s a public trust and thle holder6
thereof as the servant of the whiole people, to whom hie
owes a faithful, honest andl conscientious servie.
A, stron~g advorc-ate of RIural Crtylits-cheap mon01ey
direct -from the government to farmers on long, easy.
Am i favor of! a tariff for revenue on 'ly, and-will urge
the lowest p)ossible rates on the necessi ties of life With
the highiest rates on the luxuries. In order to meet the
delnand for increased revenuie, I favor an increased] tax
on incomes and inheritances.
I am a believer -in labor and farmers' organizations,
an mhe rill find in me a true friend. 'l'he safetyco
fort, healthi and rights of all laborers shouldl be saf
guardled. by full and adequate laws.
1. -mdvocate federal aid for our post roads.
Amn in favor of the "literacy test" as to immigrationl,
mid fu.trther safeguarding the interests of laborers from
the competition of foreign pauper labor.
Will give all interests andI classes an honest, squa-re
eal.
A. representtative who will give activeC, personal atten
tion to the duties of' the oflice.
reeTo the erapteTrd ongthersesand strivhat:h
Iage are and ho ef nterle the An yhingshor
hrtgard tat 1i ogicen the a uctsed andhearolder
thereo fro th evn fewoe people, whtnosthi needs. h
Bietfo the agneisent hp to meet ohe oteas
hatm xhange ofo teifffr favenueanly suprw ill g
thner ow oest l)si aen e neeticsriie.flf v
the ighst ate on he uxuie N A. ordrIo TN.e
Cepamdfikn eased Tresue, 1or a icknsounta
I am a cnideor n easubo r ondPfarmnssCounty and sooici
ntheypr wi ll fidins n a basis ofri. Iesftycon
Iot fel th and fullys coftn to dischre thoul dutesfthi
tirtantb fhc tol ahe aequaiterests. h epe adi olc
mI prdome fedeaeyo a faothful oicradscnuc. h oe
Am auiness-vor way thd "liternd st" to iess.toi
atnd youre suppreghiuar il th inlyeeto arete butoml
be rewardtityioheoftifoacign of knowin lhat yorofcilb
mVl goodhas nteretsyo ave cassevat thr hot w~illbe
reatoseeyoat~ who illgvsv. ~V~fa ttc
ion thoug dtes fae the slecodrc.w yasaob
smalo4 ma oy ae. n wth Cii cle r nsice iow aec
andeer an n he. and whcanerd hm now nrth rac sht.
raet eiiordthteaer tht . may .is asu thes ind yerou
wai excml b herfaoIadsldo.i*t wl
Harvey Alonzo Richey
Harvey Richey is no more. After an
energetic life of duties well performed
in this world his spirit is enjoying that
contentment promised the faithful.
Harvey Alonzo Richey died at his
home in Pickens Friday morning at1.80
o'clock, aged 68 years. His health had
been failing for about a year and he
continually grew weaker. His death
was not unexpected.
The death of Mr. Richey caused sad
ness over the entire community. He
was probably the best known man and
knew intimately more people than any
other man in Pickens county, and all who
knew him were his friends. It will be
a long time before the people of Pick
ens become accustomed to his absence.
Mr Richey was born November 15,
1848, in the upper part of Anderson
county. When he- first left. home he
went to Gaineville, Ga., where he en
gaged in the mercantile business, and
there married Miss Belle Williams in
1869. , He later returned to Easley and
was employed in the store of Tom W.
Russell. He with A. G. Wyatt and W.
J. Roark .later acquired this business.
In 1884 he was elected sheriff of Pick
ens county and moved to Pickens. His
record as sheriff was splendid and he
served two terms, being succeeded by
J. H. G. McDaniel. In 1896 he bought
the assigned stock of goods of Suther
land & Griffin and again entered the
mercantile business and continued in
business at the same stand until the
time of his death. He ws successful
in his business ventures and accumulat
ed much property. In early life he join
ed the Fairview Protestant Methodist
church and remained a member of that
church until his death. He was con
verted under the preaching of the fam
ous Caleb Smith, He was married by
the celebrated Preacher Burdine.
Mr. Richey was a man oui of the or
dinary. He was a man of excellent
habits, fine character, extremely honest
in 411 dealings, and of sturdy constitu
tion, and he continued to be active in
his accustomed pursuits till long past
the age when men ordinarily drop out
of the ranks of the workers. He bore
adversity bravely and enjoyed prosper
ity quietly. He had filled th.e various
positions of life, as son, husband, fath
er, brother, friend and public officer,
and filled them well. Who can do more?
Mr. Richey is survived by his wife
and eight children, as follows: Mrs.
Flora Lathem Arnett, of North Carolina;
Mrs. Dora Thompson, Mrs. Nora La
Boon, Mrs. Olga Goodwin and J. T.
Richey, of Pickens; Mrs. Cora Martin,
of Anderson; Mrs. Ola McKagan, of
Greenville, and Mrs. Sadie Williams, of
San Antonio,, Texas. His eldest son,
Homer, preceded his father to the grave
many years. A brother and sister also
survive-W. C. ('Squire) Richey of
Easley route 3, and Mrs. Sarah Wyatt
of Easley route 5. Besides these are
many other relatives in this section.
The funeral services were conducted
Saturday afternoon by his pastor, Rev.
Mr. Lamar, assisted by Rev. L. E.
Wiggins and Rev. John C. Bailey. A
large concourse of sorrow ing friends
were present to pay the last sad rites.
The body wvas laid to rest in the Pickens
cemetery. The active pall -bearers were
his grandsons, Willie, Homner and Toomer
Thompson, Harry LaBoon Richard Mar
tin and Aif W. Tfanner.
Would that we could express our feel
ings over the departure of this friend,
but our pen is far too feeble. To the
bereaveq ones wve extendl sincere sym
pathy and point to them the wvay he al
ways bore his sorrows.
"Tired! ah, yes! so tired, dear,
I shall soundly sleep tonight,
With never adiream-andj never a fear,
To wake in the morning light."
Mrs. Ann Crane
Mrs. Ann Crane died at the home of
her son, J. Frank Crane, at Liberty,
Tuesday, May 9, at the age of eighty
five years, ten months and thirteen
days. She made her home near Pick
ens with her son, W. H. Crante, until
the past year, which she spent with a
son in Georgia, coming back just a few
weeks ago to make her home with J. F.
Crane.
She had been an invalid for several
years. Mrs. Crane was the mother of
eight children, four boys and four girls,
all still living.
The funer-al ser-vice wvas held at Beth
lehem chur-ch near. Pickens, of which
she was the oldest member, having been
a member of this church more than for
ty years. The service was conducted
by her pastor, Rev. G. H. Hodges, and
the body laid to rest in the church cem
etery by the side of her husband, B' B.
Crane, who preceded her to 'the grave
fifty one yearp, being killed during the
John A, Robinson, one -of the most
roinept citizes -of' - Esley, was in
Jikens on busineas oneday recently.
Mrs. Sampe 9 tLoper
Mrs. Martha A. ("KurtPa
Looper died at her home in the a a
settlement May 18. Funeral services
weve held at Cross Roads churph Fri''f, '
being conducted by Rev.- ulton Cll
dress, after which the body wa laid o
rest in the church cemetery.
Mrs. Looper. wps 76 years. of age.A
the time of her dbath. She had been an
member of Cross Roads church 60 years
and had been married 58 years.
-She was a remarkable woman'in many..
ways, and it is said that she was never
kn~wn to speak an ill word of anybody
nor speak a harsh word. She wA6 an
every-day christian. The beautifyhig.
influence of a pure religion were spread
over a life and character as spotess'
and charming as was ever possessed by
any of the noble women'who have died
during the ages that have passed. As
such a life was a blessing arid benedje-,
tion to all within the sphere of its influ
ence, so is the death of sucha one E
public misfortune, as well a:s irreparable
loss to the home circle made desolate
by her departure. It is difficult to pay 5'
a tribute to the memory of so noble a
woman-one whose every-day life was
embellished by the most charming and
lovable attributes of her sex. A per
feet lady at all times under all circum
stances, she seemed born to inspire the
love and respect of all who were so
fortunate as to be acquainted with her.
Besides her husband, Samuel M. Loop-'
er, she leaves the following children:
Mrs. Sallie Fendley, of Greenville coun
ty; Mrs. Josie Tompkins, of Texas; J.
Marion Looper, Mrs. Nannie Kenne
more, of Glenwood Mill; Mrs. Martha
Williams and Dave Looper of Anderson
county; Mrs. Fannie Hendricks, J.
Thomas, Sam B., -Oscar and Miss Nora
Looper, of Pickens county, and hosts
of friends and relatives.
Mrs. Robert E. Steele
Died, at her home on Keowee, Wed
nesday, May 17, Mrs. Robert E. Steele,
vged about 70 years. She had been an
ivalid about three years, but bore her
affliction with real christian fortitude.
Paralysis was the cause or her death.
MA' Steele had for many years been a
member of Keowee Baptist church and
her funeral services were held there
Friday.
"Smooth the locks of silver hair,
On our mother's brow with tenderest
care,
Gather the robe in final fold
Around the form so still and cold;
Lay on her bosom, pure as snow,
The fairest,sweetest flowers that grow,
Kiss her and leave her our hearts de
light
Her pain fs over, she sleeps tonight."
Deep is the gloom among those who
knew this good woman, who has left a
place which cannot be filled. After a
long, busy and useful life she died as she
had lived-honored, loved and trusted.
She reared her own monument while
she lived in the hearts of all who knew
her.
Mrs. Steele is survived by her devot
ed husband and five sons, as follows:
J. E. M., C. M. and .J. F. Steele, of
Pickens county; Dr. W. HI. Steele, .of
Jackaon, Ga., and J. E. Steele,. of In
diana. Several brothers and sisters,
and a wide family connection also sur~
vive.
The Sentinel .ioins with unnumbered
friends in extending heartfelt sympa
thy to the bereaved ones and especially
to the heartbroken companion of her
life, whom we understand is growing
very feeble, but whom wve hope will be
spared nmany more years of blessings
with) u.
Mrs. B. P. Mauldin Dead
Mrs. Nannie Mauldin, widow of the
late H. P'. Mauldin, died May 16. 11cr
death was very sudden andl dueI to ap
poplexy. At the time of her death she
was 62 years old and a miember' of Ta
bor'church, where her funeral was held
May 17, being conducted b~y her pastor,
Rev. S. B. White.
Before her- marriage Mrs. Mauldin
was a Miss fjawkins and she was known
and loved by all in her community and
many hearts are sad over her departure.
Besides many friends and relatives
she leaves ten living children, as fol
lows: Mrs. Mollie Cantrell, W. H.
Mauldin, Ruby Mlauldin, Mrs. Damie
Gosnell, Riley ' Mauldin, Mrs. Hattie
Knowles, Mrs. Lelia Stephens, Mrs.
Vendy Dillard, Anderson Mauldin and
Mrs. Sarah Roper.
T. iH. Campbell of Mullins has been
elected to and has accepted the princi
p~aIship of the P'ickens school for the
next term. TFhe present teachers were
re-elected, as follows: Misses Isadora
Williams, Nellie Grandy, Ruby Baker,
Belle Yongue, Ada Craig. Miss Vesta
Ashmore, who taught the past session,
reinied.
