mmm,mmmmmummmmmmmmmmemanamtmmmmmmmmmmmmmemMwmmmeMmmmwmemmmmmeeamwmmmmmm
J. A. MENZIES, Editor and Publisher. "Here the Press the People's Rights Maintain, Unawed by Influence and Unbribed by Gain." For All That Is Right In The Republican Pai I
Vol. XXXIV, No. 8 qr. yi. YALE, St. Clair County, Mich.. THURSDAY, May 25, 1916 $1.00 Per Year, In Advance
iiiiiMiiiiinmmiiiniiiMniimmtHiiiwuMinnninnmmni
IE greatest, bulwark against the indigence of
old age or the financial drain caused by a
protracted illness i9 a bank account. If ou
are a business man making big profits; if
you are an employee with a fine salary, plan
to lav aside a certain sum weekly. Then
if the rainy day comes along it will find
you prepared.
In times of stress youll find that your brink account
is your friend. You can look the world in the eye.
The man with a bank account looks befter, feels better,
is better than the man without a bank account. We
transact all kinds of banking business.
SEE US ABOUT AN ACCOUNT TODAY.
Yale State Bank
Advance Program
Princess Theatre
Tuesday, May 30
Featuring Theda Bara in
'Lady Audley s Secret'
10 cents and 15 cents
Thursday and Saturday each week
4-reel of Pathe Hand-Colored.
BLACK CAT
aV tQ4cz'A fT .
.6
ASK FOR THIS ffl
BOOK OF LATEST II
I WALL PAPER
1 AT OUR STORE H
j Decoration & Memorial Day Proclamation
Bv the Governor
",is hour ,fu R'eat European nations are engaged in deadly con
flict. History fails to record any other war of like magnitude and
ferocity. Human imagination utterly fails to appreciate the agony of the
millions of mothers and children whose wishes were never consulted.
Millions of human lives have heen ruthlessly sacrificed, to say nothing of
the widespread destruction of property. Chaos has heen substituted for
order; hate and revenge dominate the minds of the contesting rulers of
these great nations. Death is their watchword.
In the United States peace reigns. This great nation is fearlessly con
serving the faith and loyalty of its people. Our watchwords are "life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness." At this hour we look back to our
last awful sacrifice upon the altar of liberty. On May thirtieth the remnant
of the Grand Army of the Republic, together with one hundred million
freemen will pay tribute to the living and the dead. Let us reverently and
lovingly join the spirit of the immortal Lincoln in dedicating our lives to
the task of increasing our "devotion to that cause for which they gave the
last full measure of their devotion; that we here highly resolve that these
dead shall not have died in vain; that this nation, under God, shall have a
new birth of freedom; and that government of the people, by the people,
tor the people, shall not perish from the earth."
' May the democracy of our beloved nation in this hour of world peril
fearlessly and successfully point the way to universal peace. The regener
ating need of Europe and of the whole civilized world Is democracy and
more Democracy.
While decorating the graves of the "Boys In Blue", let us lovingly re
member our Spanish War Veterans; likewise the patriotic self-sacrifice of
American mothers who gave us our heroes.
' Therefore, I, Woodbrldge N. Ferris, Governor of the State of Michigan,
do hereby issue this, my Proclamation, and heartily urge the observance of
Tuesday, May 30, 1916, as Memorial Day.
As a part of the public exercises of Memorial Day, I suggest that bells be
tolled from 12:00 o'clock noon until 12:05; that flags be placed at half
mast, and that comrades stand with uncovered heads during this period.
' Given under my hand and the Great Seal of the State this eighteenth
day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and sixteen,
and of the Commonwealth the eightieth.
WOODBRIDGE N. FERRIS,
By the Governor: Governor
COLEMAN C. VAUGHN, Secretary of State
The Day in Yale
' Tuesday next, May 30th, is Memorial Day and will be observed in Yale
as usual with appropriate exercises. The school children, together with
the Boy Scouts, Sons of Veterans and citizens, will march with the Old
Veterans to the cemetery. ' The march will begin in front of the Paisley
Hotel on Main street at 9:30 standard time. Autos will be provided for
the Veterans and their wives who do not care to walk. H. P. Ohmer will
look after securing autos. The Clifford band will furnish music during
the day. ' Following is the program which will be given in Central Hall,
beginning at 1:30 o'clock, local time:
Invocation
Songs and recitations by scholars and others
Shirley Stewart, speaker of the day
Miss Janness O'Rourke, elocutionist, of Port Huron, will entertain
Song -"America"
5 IjYMBNEflL. I
C No Man Can Either l.lw Piously, or I y
a Righteously Without a Wife. -Itlhtr. X
MATHEWS 5C T7iaST
WKLCH-ORK
A very quiet wedding occurred at
the Baptist church parsonage in Port
Huron on Thursday, May 1H, 191f, when
Miss Lorna Annetta Welch was united
in the holy bonds of wedlock to Mr.
Wm. Orr, both of Vale.
A short honeymoon trip was taken
to Buffalo, N. Y., and other points of
interest,
Congratulations are extended bv ad
miring triends.
DRAKR-CA VANAOII
Married at the home of Elder Denl
son McCall, one and a half miles west
of Yale, on Saturday, May 20th, 1916,
Miss .lean M. Drake and Mr. Charles
Cavanagh. They were attended by
Lloyd and Jessie McCall.
Miss Jean is the daughter of K. Har
vey Drake and an accomplished and
fiopular young lady of our city, well
iked and admired by a large circle of
friends. The groom is the only son of
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. A. Cavanagh and is
held in high esteem by all who are ac
quainted with him. They will make
their home In Yale.
The best of good wishes for a happy
and prosperous life is offered by friends.
Board of Review
To all persons liable to assessment for
taxes in the township of Brock way,
County of St. Clair, State of Michi
gan, for the year 1916:
Notice is Hereby Given, That the
Assessment Boll for the said township
of Brock way for the year 1916, has been
completed and that the Board of Re
view of said townshiu will be In session
at the TOWN HALL,
Tuesday, June 6th, 1916
from 7 .on o'clock in the forenoon until
600 i ''dock in the afternoon, for the
purpose of reviewing and correcting
the Assessment Roll. The Board will
also be in session MONDAY, JUNE
12th, 1916, and will remain in session
until the review Is completed.
JOHN L. PATTERSON,
Supervisor, Brockway Township.
Dated May 22, 1916.
Old papers for shelves, and for put
ting under carpets, tor sale at the
Expositor oflcs
Class Day Exercises
It has been the custom for several
years to have the Class Day exercises
giveu in the form of a rhetorical pro
gram in the afternoon. This year the
Senior Class has decided to hold a class
night, Friday, June 2, in the High
School assembly room at 8. 00 o'clock.
All who are interested in the Seniors
and the progress of the schools are
invited to attend. The following pro
gram will be given:
Music
President's Address.. Frank L. Beadle
Class Will Rhea Watson
France Julia McMahon
Class Poem Edna Stevens
Music
Class History Bertha Clyne, Lottie
Muir aud Van Hydorn
Russia Anna McUretton
The Class-It's Talks and Doings,
Mattie Vincent
Prophecy Roy Sweet. Olin Beavis
Valedictory Nina Oatmau
Hurt in Auto Wreck.
.Worn, Mich., May 22 A man giving
his name as Brooks and his residence
as Brown City was injured when an
automobile in which he and two other
men, named Davis, also of Brown City,
were driving to this city to board a
train for their home, plunged over the
side of Mericle's bridge, a mile and a
half south of here Saturday evening.
As the automobile approached the
bridge at a rapid rate of speed a horse
and rig was observed crossing the
structure. The men in the automobile
were unable to stop their car in time
to avoid striking the rig, and the driver
steered his machine over the side of
the bridge. As the machine plunged
downward it struck a tree which veered
the front end into the water under the
bridge. Brooks was pinned under the
machine. He was brought to this
B'ace and his injuries were dressed by
r. Campbell. He was able to acoosn-
Kany the other two men to Brown City
owever. The three men had been
working on a dredge near Lambs. The
automobile was badly wrecked and
was taken from the scene Sunday.
We wish to Inform the public that
we have a quantity of f'm aood
te five out fer sowing purpose
which can b has! by oailinf at the
jwIII far Mm. We alee want to
rent a limited amount of land suit -hie
fer rawing flax. 3.
Th J as Livingston Flea Ce , Ltd.
r
Obituary.
He still prepared for death and death or
life shall thereby he the sweeter.
Shakespeare.
Mrs. Lester Clark died at the home
of her daughter, Mrs. Eva Klack early
Sunday morniug, May 21st. 191rt, after
several weeks' illness.
Funeral services were held at the M.
P. church on Tuesday at 2:00 p. m.
Rev. Bragg omciating. The body was
laid to rest in Kim wood cemetery.
Susan Smith was one of eight chil
dren of Albert and Lavina Smith. She
was born in Pickering, ( int., May 21st,
1840, and died May 21st, 1910, making
her iti years or age on day ot death.
The family came to St. Clair county,
Mich , in 1850 and on July 9, 1855, she
was married to Lester Clark.
A home was begun in the then wilds
oi Berlin township and the hardships
of those early days can scarcely be
credited now. She stood, a brave
helper, by the side of her husband,
rearing her children and enduring with
christian fortitude all the difliculties
which beset the way of the pioneer.
Mrs. Clark was a woman of quiet,
home-making habits, conscientious and
earnest in her desire to live aright.
Their home was near a 'friendly tribe
of Riley Indians with whom they be
came familiar, and with kindness won
their good will. As years went on
civilization grew apace and many
changes came. The farm just outside
the city limits of Yale was purchased
and for many years the home was here
and here the golden anniversary of
their marriage was celebrated. After
wards a little home was bought in the
city, and finally, as age and Infirmities
came, Mr. and Mrs. Clark went to live
with their daughter.
Eight children were born to them,
five of whom are now living, Mrs. Eva
Black, Yale; Mrs. John Collins, of
Lynn; Jason, of Saginaw, Carrie, who
lives with Mrs. Black, and Mrs. Cbas.
Ferguson, Brockway township.
Those from a distance who attended
the funeral services of Mrs. Lester
Clark were: Mrs. Emily Warner,
Loreu, Jason and William Churchill,
Deford; Bert Kitchen and wife, Cass
City, Wm. Smith and wife, H. A,
Smith, wife and daughter Belle, San
dusk v; Bert Powers, wife and Uurley
Smith of Berville; Lydia E. Smith, of
Armada; Maryette Morley and son
Karl, of Capac; Vesta Frost of Romeo;
Mary Reynolds and daughter Mrs. S.
E. Hosborough, Detroit; Mrs. Abigal
Stock, Port Huron; Jason Clark and
wife, Saginaw; H. B. Eshleman and
wife, Flint.
CARD OF THANKS. 1
Our heartfelt gratitude goes out to
our friends who so kindly and thought
fully assisted in the care of our wife
and mother during her sickness and
after her death, and to ail who through
words of consolation, beautiful fioral
offerings and the kindly tendering of
their automobiles sought to lighten
our grief, we wish to thank.
Lester Clark and Children.
Mrs. Carrie H. Tillotson, widow of
the late W. Irving Tillotson, passed
away at the home of her daughter, Mrs.
Oeo. E. Uillam, at 1 o'clock this morn
iug after an illness that began the last
of December. Little hope for perma
nent recovery had been entertained
from the beginning of her illness. The
death of her husband occurred only
seven weeks ago, on March 21st. Mrs.
Tillotson's condition at the time was
such that she was unable to accompany
the remains to their old home at Onei
da, N. V., where Mr. Tillotson was
taken by his own request and pursuant
to arrangements made by himself. Mrs.
Tillotson bad expressed her views often
that she wished to be buried wherever
she misht be at the time of her death,
and this wish will be observed.
The funeral services will be held at
the residence on Oak street at 3 o'clock
Monday afternoon, Rev. Ceo. Hunting
ton officiating, with interment at Sti
ver Brook cemetery.
Mrs. Tillotson was born at Ogden, N.
Y., Feb. 1, 1840. She was married to
W. Irving Tillotson in 1865. Of five
children born of this union, three sur
vive, viz: Mrs. Lueila J. Millen of Du
luth, Minn., Mrs. Rena B. Uillam, of
Niles, and Mrs. Daisy E. Lacy, of Vale,
Michigan, all of whom were with their
mother during the last days of her life,
and her death coming so soon after the
death of their father, is keenly felt.
One daughter, Miss Carolyn P. Tillot
son lies in Silver Brook and her mother
will be placed beside her.
Mrs. Tillotson was a deep student of
current literature, but her special de
light was the study of nature, and the
Mowers, the birds and the trees were an
open book to her.
Spending her winters in the south
for many years with her daughter, Mrs.
Millen and her summers in the north,
she was afforded the opportunity she
so much appreciated to indulge this
passion for nature study to the utmost.
She became a member of the Niles
chapter of the Eastern Star a number
of years ago, and also tne Mies civic
Improvement Society. Niles Daily
Sun, May IS.
YALE ASTONISHED BY
SIMPLE MIXTURE
Yale people are astonished at the
INSTANT action of simple buckthorn
bark, glycerine, etc., as mixed In Adler
i-ka. ON E SPOON FUL removes such
surprising foul matter it relieves al
most ANY CASE constipation, sour
stomach or gas. Because Adler-i-ka
acta on BOTH lower and upper bowel,
a few dotes often relieve or prevent
appendicitis. A short treatment helps
chronic stomach trouble. Orant Hol
den, druggist adv
3D
STOP AND REFLECT
VOU who have settled in matrimony you who In
tend to some day think of those around whom
your whole thoughts arc centered. Think of the duty im
posed upon yon to provide comfort and happiness for them.
Yon Can't Provide for Them with an Empty Purse
Wouldn't it be wise for you to begin ta tare nam so that
yeifH be able to provide against pofeityT Yon dont hare
to sere much but yon must save regularly.
Pol year rands here, where safety and personal serviee go hand la jssjsj
with eonseientiooa effort.
FiUBT National Hank
YALF, , MICHIGAN
OFFICERS
.Vic Pretutent
C RAdams.Aut car
i
W F. Run; W
E FFeadlCashtcr
7
Does Your Watch or Clock
Need Repairing?
if so, bring it to us und we will put it in good shape. We
have had the experience and can do your work right.
Our Motto; Neatness and promptness.
L. Roy Fuller, - Yale, Mich.
C. E. RiMs
Here's Why
G. & B. PEARL Wire Cloth
Stops Screen Expense
Painting repairing re
placing screen those are the ex
penses which make inefficient wire
cloth a source of annoyance and money Iom.
When you screen with genuine G. St H.
PEARL you do sway with painting, repair
inc. replacements simply because PEARL
is rust-proof as metal can bs made, conse
quently makes a screen that's practically
wear-proof. e
G. & B. PEARL represents true
screen economy. It outwears all imita
tions so far that no other similar apprarfnS
wire can be placed in the ame class. From
points of appearance sanitation durability
and economy O. a B. PEARL is the one
choice of ths man who wants permanent
arotectlon.
SmMyCltBtST StHNtTT i
DEALER IN
Shelf and Heavy Hardware,
Paints and Oils,
Gasoline, Auto Oils and
Accessories
U Wire Cloth
6 IT Pmrmantntly Screening Doori.
indowe and Porchme. Made in Two
Weimhte Regular and Extra Heavy
The longer G. & B. PEARL is up
the nearer the color of the atm'
phere It becomes. It is easy on the eyes
easy on the pock t book and the one screen
whose smooth menhrx prevent the lodging
of dust and dirt and grime.
We sell genuine PEARL Wire
Cloth with two Copper Wires in the
Selvage and ths Round Tag bearing ths
Gilbert & Hennett name on each rull.
SI
m
BTWo SPECIALIZE in GKOCEK1ES OK QUALITY.
Speaking of Flours
-we really believe that STOTTS DIAMOND PAT
ENT is the best bread flour on the market today.
It is made from hard spring wheat. We made a big
"buy" of this popular brand, and while this shipment
lasts we will sell it at the very special price of $7.00
the barrel. This is an exceptionally low price and we
invite you to get in on it.
Let your slogan be-'Taylor's for Groceries."
Store open evenings.
...FBED TATLOS...
Phone 49 - Prompt Delivery - Yale
We Print
Note Heads.
Bill Heads,
Letter Heads,
Envelopes, Etc.
