I"1""" " I " ' nin-nrrn--' i 11 liir'TrnTTTfrrirnrniiiriiiiifiiiTiriii'ii mi "fn T'T'i """I m j. iii 'iii"ii'i"i7ii'iiiiii"iMiiiiliiiiinrii")i"ii iiHiiiMiwSiMiSBiSwMnWw'T.TB
Carrier 30 ' f'H
iibFfvy.VniKcrslty
utaif . , Hi .
1 H H 1 fl H b H ftBs H H . HHfl S H H ! H Aw l
Vdl, 27 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 14, 1916 goK I
ZLZ THAT PROPOSED AMENDMENT I
XN the constitutional convention the best talent was exercised
to frame the section on the taxation of mines so that it would
be fair and just. The experience of other states was called
in ; the consideration of the question lasted several days the thought
behind it all was that the section should be as nearly just to all the
taxpayers of, the state as the convention with such lights before it as
it had could make it.
Constitutions should be changed from time to time as experience
dictates, but the work of changing should not be given to inferior, un
informed men or men whose prejudices are stronger than their sense
of duty.
This proposed amendment which the voters must pass upon next
month, is h monstrosity, the more it is studied the more hideous it
grows.
For instance, it permits the taxing authorities to place different
rates on property for taxation, though the constitution commands that
"The power of taxation shall never be surrendered, suspended or
contracted away."
This amendment proposes to take that power from the people and
place it in the discretion of an appointee of the State Board of Equali
zation. The constitution further commands that "All taxes shall be uni
form upon the same class of property."
This amendment proposes to bestow the appointee of a state
board, the authority to levy double taxes on certain property. This
takes the taxing power from the people and places it in the discretion
of an appointee of a state board.
Moreover, the amendment proposes to leave the legislature free
to fix-different rates on various classes of property.
Our Wise Chief Magistrate
IT is not wonderful that President Wilson has
decided that it is not dignified for a president
of the United States to go out on a general cam
' paign for re-election.
$ ' There are a great many people in this coun
try who helieve that they have a right to ques
tion stump speakers who are out advocating es
pecial measures, or the election of special men,
and the president is bright.enough to know that
were he to expose himself some very embarras
sing questions might be asked by impudent or
curious questioners in the crowd.
J" tFor instance:
Mr. President, when in the spring it Avaa
proved to you that American citizens by scores
and hundreds in Mexico were being robbed and
many of them murdered, and all you had to say
was, to advise Americans to get out of that coun-
ffi try, why was it that in the autumn just prior to
, " the congressional elections, when the news was
!,-- brought you that p, petty Mexican officer had in-
i V1 suited a boat load of Americans and their flag,
but that the superior officer in the same city, the
moment he heard of it made every possible apol-
The constitution provides that men shall not be forced to pay j
taxes on what they do not own ; that is if a man's property is mort- jH
gaged the amount of the mortgage is deducted. This amendment jH
strikes all that out. When it comes to taxing mines, the proposed
amendment cSiuiot be read without forcing one to believe that the M
purpose was to crippljjndS that arc being worked and to stop 41
the "rth?r ovwMmMit f, ,. f. ft I
1 he ignorance shown jnj tbja 'wbi-&ivg, the malice apparent in the ;H
intention of the ameiidmerft feimairectly to that conclusion. 'M
The author qljjfSepList have been controlled by the H
single thought. "I will cinch those mining men." fl
As we have repeatedly shown, it provides, after everything else M
about the mines is taxed to the limit, if a mine happens, after years M
of struggle, to be making a little profit, to set an inquisition to work,
to ascertain the amount of that profit and then to multiply that profit M
by three for purposes of taxation. 'M
It would be just as fair and just as legal; after taxing a farmer for j
the value of the farm and improvements, for the assessor to go to the j
farmer and say: "You have forty dairy cows; you must have made H
four hundred pounds of butter per week through forty weeks of 1915 ;
that butter is selling for 40 cents per pound ; you must have received
thirty cents per pound, twenty cents of which must have been profit. H
"It is my duty to lev)'- an extra tax on your property of $960 on ac- H
count of that butter. H
"By the way, too, you raised ten acres of potatoes, in all 2,000 M
bushels: The way potatoes are selling in Salt Lake, it is doubtless my M
duty to place an extra tax on three times the profit over actual cost, M
that you made on your potatoes." " H
We say to the people, in self justification stamp this infamy out M
and save the courts the trouble of doing it later. " M
ogy, you still became so angry that the flag had
been insulted that you demanded that the then
president of Mexico in, atonment for the out
rage, should order our flag to be specially saluted,
and when he declined you became so indignant
that you called our whole Atlantic fleet to Vera
Cruz and the landing of force enough to capture
the city, causing the death of eighteen American
sailors; then in a dramatic speech asked con
gress to sustain you in the whole' flap-doodle busi
ness, and then when everything you demanded
was granted, why did you lay down and return
to your ''watchful waiting" policy?
Or, suppose some German-American citizen
were to interrupt one of the president's heroics
against hyphenated-Americans, and ask of him
this:
"Mr. President, considering all the antecedents
attending upon your birth and where you were
born, and the class of people who were your an
cestors, and your own historical writings, suppose
you had been born twenty years sooner, would
not a hyphen be necessary now to state your real
American status?" . . ,
Oragain: ,..,,.,, , .' ,
"Mr. President, considering your affection for H
the honest working man as expressed before the H
graduating class of several years ago, suppose .H
the railroad unions had made their demand H
three years ago for an eight-hour day, at the same iH
time telling you that they would submit to no ar- HH
bitration, but if their demand was not complied M
with within Ave days, they would order a general 'H
strike, would you have laid down as you did this IH
year, or would you have answered: 'Your refusal "JH
to have your demand considered by any fair trl- .'H
bunal, is conclusive proof on its face that you 'HH
know what you demand is unfair, and your tone H
is an insult to the government of which I ain the jH
executive." H
Or again: H
"Mr. President, how about your promise that 'H
no gentleman engaged in any legitimate business H
need fear any tariff revisions made by the H
Democratic party?" i
Or again: iH
"Where, Mr. President, is that ample and mag- JH
niflcent merchant .marine that you .assured "us H
would light the seas with our flag and 'run pros- Pj
perously, without bounties or subsidies?" H
iH
JM
