A GOOD BUSINESS MAN
keeps in touch 'with the labor
movement because labor
AFFECTS HIS PROFITS.
Vol. 23, No. 61.
MINE COMPANY'S LETTER
SLYLY ADVISES VIOLENCE
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn., Oct. 12.—In an "Open Letter to Em­
ployes the Tennessee Copper company makes stealthy suggestion
of violence against organizers of the WestenirYederation of Miners
who are interesting the company's employes in trade unionism.
In a four-page pamphlet, the company makes this sly bid for
"strong arm" methods:
"We appreciate your feelings in the matter and kliow that just
at present those of you who have offered to get rid of these organizers
feel that nothing is too bad for any one"desiring to upset such pleas
___ ant relations as have existed for so many years between the company
and the men, but the same thing can be accomplished by public
sentiment, and let's just make it so unpopular that this whole agita­
tion will flunk immediately and that there will be no more men forced
into idleness by a bunch of exploiters that' have desperate hope of
getting a slice of your hard earned cash."
The slice of hard-earned cash re-*®
ferred to is 1§V2 cents an hour for
common labor. These wages are de­
fended by the company as follows:
"If wages were much higher there
•would be such a rush for this com­
munity that you would lose your pres­
ent steady work and would be much
worse than at present, and as the
company could not afford to pay it
on the low grade of ore in this dis­
trict, it simply means 'killing the
goose that lays the golden egg.'
In an effort to arouse national ha­
treds among these low-wage employes,
who are urged to keep out of the
uiijoii- on*the ground that they l^woirid
be much worse off than at present,"
the company charges that the West­
ern Federation of Miners is controlled
by "foreigners," and. then submits
these questions, unworthy of men
claiming allegiance to American prin-'
ciples:
"Do you want to have your life con­
trolled by a vote of Dagoes, Polacks
and Finlanders, and pay for their
support? Would you like to have
them for neighbors? Remember if the
camp were organized you could not
complain for they would be your
"brothers, and do not think for a min
tite that they would not come and
live right among you."
1. W. W. ACCUSED OF
MURDER, RELEASED
Word was received here today that
James Schmidt, I. W. W., who was ac­
cused of killing a freight car brake
man in Aberdeen, S. D., last year, has
just been released on motion of the
state's attorney. Schmidt, who plead­
ed not guilty, claimed that the brake
man was shooting at him for no cause
and was obliged to kill in self defense.
In investigating the circumstances
surrounding the killing, South Dakota
authorities found that this was true
and asked that the state be not put
to the expense of a trial when a con
viction would have been highly im­
probable.
GERMER WILL SPEAK
ATTARMOHALLOCT. 15
Adolph Germer, national secretary
of Ihe Socialist party will speak on
"Labor and Politics," at Tarmo hall,
109 West Superior street, over the
Sunbeam theater, Sunday, Oct. 15, at
2 p. m. The secretary has been in
Duluth for several days, organizing
the campaign for the November elec­
tions and watching the work of the
Duluth locals.
Sunday night Germer will speak at
the Scandinavian Socialist entertain­
ment at Wodmen's hall, corner 'of
West First street and Twenty-first av­
enue West.
Germer is well known in labor cir­
cles in the middle west. He was sec­
retary of the United Mine Workers
for an umber of years.
WILSON AHEAD IN
OHIO STRAW VOTE
COLUMBUS, Oct. 12.—The result of
the state-wide poll being conducted
by The Columbus*Dispatch to date is:
Wilson, 14,336 Hugthes, 10,979, taken
In communities that fairly represent
Republican and Democratic sentiment.
A BOLT FROM THE BLUE
BRADFORD, Wis., Oct. 12.—A
bolt of lightning, coming from an,
absolute clear and blue sky,
caused a fire here which resulted
in the burning of two oil tanks, an
oil rig and power houses of the
South Penn Oil company in the
Jewett districts The tanks
MINNEAPOLIS,, ,Minn.,
The "home of Munsing wear," widely
advertised as a model factory, is
really such as far- as appearances go
But the girls who toil in the North­
western Knitting Works at 10 cents
an hour can, perhaps, tell best why
the concern, with its magnificent
buildings, is rated at more than a mil­
lion and a half dollars.
It is true that the factory complies
in every way, apparently, with the
sanitary laws. But air and sunshine
alone will not feed the thousands of
girls who toil in the place. Minimum
wage commissions have frequently
said that the minimum wage for girls
should be at least $8. With the re­
cent skyrocket advance in food prices,
and the cost of clothing, $10 would
probably be a truer estimate.
In the home of Munsing wear girls
receive $1 a day for a ten-hour day.
As a matter of fact, the girls are re­
quired to report fifteen minutes be­
fore the scheduled opening, making
the day even longer. .A single min­
ute's tardiness will result in a fine of
10 cents—the pay for an hour's toil.
The low pay and the terrific speed­
ing up system in vogue in the works
wears out the girls in a short time.
Many leave after a few weeks of work
in the factory. In order to keep em­
ployes the firm compels every appli­
cant to sign an agreement that she
will work at least six weeks.
ORGANIZER NOW AT
WORK ON RANGE
C. E. Gustafson of Minneapolis, and
special, organizer for the Minnesota
State Federation of Labor is working
on the Range and in the northwest or­
ganizing the miners who were recently
on strike. He reports excellent pro­
gress and a wonderful spirit of or­
ganization among the then. This work
was taken up in the absence of Presi­
dent E. G. Hall.
UNION MEN ORGANIZE
GOOD MUSIC MOVEMENT
The Twin Ports Concert band has
been organized by Superior and Du­
luth union musicians to furnish bet­
ter music in the future through prac­
ticing together instead of the old sys
tem of hit-or-miss gathering together
of a body of men to furnish music
whenever the occasion requires.
The band is composed equally of
musicians of Duluth and Superior.
Regular practice will he held together
once every week. H. C. Westrom of
Duluth has been chosen director. The
band has no connection with the
Twin Ports Concert company.
AUTHORS WONT JOIN
FEDERATION OF LABOR
1—
NEW YORK, Oct. 12.—Proposed af­
filiation of the Authors' League of
America with the American Federa­
tion of Labor, which a number of
members of the league opposed, was
dropped by unanimous vote of the
executive committee, consisting of
Louis J. Vance, chairman Rex Beach,
Ellis Parker Butler, Leroy Scott,
Arthur I. Keller and Thompson Bu­
chanan.
A
4*--
I
Jtl,
New York's traction strike, running
through its fourth week, pulls up
strong as ever and goes into its fifth
week as an endurance test between
organized wealth and organized labor.
The general. sympathy strike is off
—'but in such a manner that it can
be swung into action whenever the
labor movement feels it wise to in­
voke it.
The sympathy strike did not come
up to expectations because of the vast
amount of detail work that could not
be done properly in the short time al­
lowed between the call and the date
for the Suspension of work.
Some of the more powerful organ­
izations, notably the building trades,
did not suspend w.ork'. This was
largely because of misunderstanding.
There was, too, in this general strike
something of a reversal of the popu­
BY WILLIAM E. McEWEN.
The city commissioners have done the expected
thing. They have voted down the resolution introduced
by Commissioner Farreil to consolidate the accounting
systems of the city. They opposed it in both letter
and in spirit. They have closed their eyes to practical
economy In administering the affairs of the city. They
have closed their ears to the demand of the public for
the application of the pruning knife in the cost of run­
ning the city government.
Another election may bring to the city hall new
commissioners, each possessed with a vision of com­
mission government, for we have commission govern­
ment in Duluth only in form, but not in substance. The
old wasteful methods of the ward system still obtain.
Indeed, it is believed the ward system had the better
of the deal.
Aldermen were exceedingly careful about creating
new offices and employing unnecessary help. They had
a keen sense of public opinion, which most! of them
feared. If it were not for the red-tape between city
councils and the various boards existing under the old
system the aldermen would have forced many reforms
having to do with the economical administration of city
affairs.
Because such reforms could not be readily affected
the people did away with the old form of government
and established commission form, upon which, they
built high hopes. They expected to get one dollar's
worth of government for every hundred cents in taxes
they paid. It was represented to them that the money
wasted by the old machinery of government would be
saved and spent in more economical ways to the end that
better results would be obtained without Increasing the
amount of the city budget.
W-i •0'
FOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC RIgfatjt AND POLITICAL PROGRESS.
DULIJTH AND SUPERIOR, OCTOBER 14,1916.
STRIKING CARMEN FUNDS.
lar, notion that the rank and file of
workers are more radical than the
leaders. In this attempt to call a gen­
eral strike the radicalism—if that is
the proper word—of tihe leaders out­
distanced that of the rank and file.
The traction men are sticking as
loyallyv as men ever stuck. The fact
that organized labor is as heartily
with them as ever was indicated when
the labor convention -that declared the
general strike ofE unanimously recom­
mended that every union in Greater
New York assess each member $1 for
the carmen.
Out of 11,500 traction: workers on
strike^ General Organizer Fitzgerald
reports only 38 desertions.—"This is
a wonderful showing^:
The capitalist preset of New" York
has been Vicious. It has" distorted
every utterance of strike leaders and
7
The commissioners attempt to console tbe people
with the .claim that the tax rate for :c]ty'purposes has
0
Courtesy«df the New York Observer
misrepresented the situation daily.
Almost every edition has contained a
fresh lie. The strike convention
roundly scored ^the capitalist press.
James Holland, president of the State
Federation of Labor, took occasion to
give warm praise to the New York
Call as the only New York paper pub­
lished in the English language to pre­
sent labor's'side of the case.
There is every indication that the
strike will settle into a test" of strength
with the~ strikers in an exceptionally
favorable position.
not been increased, but they ignore the fact that the
assessed valuation has been raised by one-third and to
such an extent that a great deal more money is paid
in for city purposes.
Now we are face to face with the fact that the city
needs more money. The people voted against increasing
the tax rate. By a clever legerdemain process the, ap­
propriation for the interest and sinking funds has
been materially increased money heretofore taken from
the amount raised under the 13-mill levy will be gotten
from taxes taken in excess of this levy, and the same
amount will in addition be paid by the people for gen­
eral city operating expenses under said levy. In this
way the tax rate has been raised in spite of the vote
by the people against an increased rate.
The commissioners have beaten his Satanic. Majesty
about the bush. They have thwarted the verdict of the
people. They have failed to obey the inferred mandate
that unnecessary waste now obtaining must cease. Com­
missioner Farreil, who always has his ear to the, grpund,
pointed out one way how duplication of work might
be avoided, but it was a change, and the other commis­
sioners, always looking backward and never forward, are
averse to anything that spells progress.
While we haven't gone into, the letter of Commis­
sioner Farrell's-resolution as, thoroughly as we wbuld
like to do, we heartily agree with its spirit. If it is not
the proper course to pursue, surely the other commis­
sioners can find a way to cut down the clerical operat­
ing cost of the city in every division, including the
water and light department.
They can not escape the charge that there is un­
necessary waste at the city hall* While a change might
cause some personal inconvenience and throw, a few
employes out of positions,, things would be readjusted
in time, and the people wquld be getting the benefit of
an idejal commission government.
.* jl •..
A\,.
The girls were all formerly iem
Ployed by cigar ahd tobacco firms
and disregarding one off the injunc­
tions issued by ColUngwood, held up
several girls who were"acting as Strike
There is no indication of an end to breakers and trifed to. persuade them
V. mi.:
the traction .strike. The men are de
termined to stick until they win. The
finks, cut down to regular wages, are
quitting because there are no more
fat pickings."' The public, too, contin­
ues to manifest a warm support for
the strikers
tj, quit. They "were, cited to appear
for contempt Of court and were then
accused of assaulting the strike­
breaking girls.
Collingwood,. well-fed, sleek, and
with a complacent air. patronizingly
asked several' impertinent questions
of the girls whejther they stayed at
home at night,' tiveir.:: morals and so
on. He did not inquire" &s to the
causes of the strike nor .of the many
violations of' the lawj^ by manu factur
ers and employers/ ''?he girls' cases
were continued until ipet, 21, which is
the last day of this "session of the
district court, at Which time they will
be: sentenced.
350 TWIN CITIES
TAILORS ON STRIKE
MINNEAPLIS, Oct. 12.--Three hun­
dred and fifty pourneymen tailors,
comprising 85 per cenWof 'that trade
here, went on a strike thisweek. They
demand recognition- of 'the union,
standardization of the work day and
a five per cent increase" in wages.
Custom tailors are back of the
strike. Tailor made.-suits are not
made by custom tailorsT a& In former
times. They act as intermediary be­
tween the consumer iub&i ..-tailoring
contractor.. The latter solicits his bus­
iness from the ^custom. tailor an^P de­
pends upon Shim for a-livlng. When
journeymen' tailors first" presented
their demands,: the 'contractors con­
sented to them, but the custom tailors
agreed to boycott all contractors who
recognized the union.
SECTION HANDS UNION
OFFICIAL IN DULUTH
F. H. Fljozdal, general chairman
of the Canadian Northern System
division of "the International Brother­
hood of Maintenance and Ways Em­
ployes, arrived in Duluth today xrom
St. Paul.
Fljozdal stated that he was here in
the interests' of his organization and
would only stay a few days.
COSSACKS NOT ONLY
RUSSIA BUT PA.
WILKBS-BARRE, Pa., Oct. 12.—
The state police is to be investigated
as a r.3ult of the riot in this city on
the night of Sept. 11,: When ithese'cos
sacks rode down Wilkes-Barre citi­
zens: Brutality charges
Vave
been laid
before Governor Brumbaugh by Presi­
dent Maurer of the state ^deration of
QOOD TRADE l^NIQNIST
must always be intelligently in­
formed of the movements of his
own kind.
TWO CENTS.
BAYOJJJ4E, N. J12.—Police, armed with Winchesters,. auto­
matics and sawedroE^otgliiis patrolled the "hook district," near the
Standard Oil.empty's plants, where eight strikersaiidfour police­
men were wooncled during a clash between the armed guards and
employes of the company yesterday.
The iighting accured when several hundred strikers pushed a flat
car across a street ear "track in an attempt to block traffic and isolate
the entire industrial district, at the lower end of the long peninsula
on which the city lies. Eighty guards, armed with Winchesters and
sawed-off shotguus,.riished the strikers in an attempt to reiilove the
car.
Throughout the district, which was a storm center in a similar
strike of St»8d^i 0^ ^rkers, years ago, when six: strikers were
killed, police and. strikers alike, attempted to draw picket lines
today. .v
DETROIT, MICH., Oct. 12.—Eight
girls, who .while ?n a strike in De­
troit's closed shop fight violated an
injunction against picketing, ap­
peared ^before Judge Colliijgwood of
East Lansing today-naiSa ?were pro­
nounced guilty. Collingwood, the in­
famous "injunction judge," presides
over this session of the District Court.
What They Want.
The strike started when the men
were refused an increase in wages of
30 per cent for-tempjoyes receiving1
under-$3 a day, s$d 20 per cent for
those receiving over that amount.
Three thousand men went out on the
first, call. Strikers report 6,000 out
today with a "prediction of heavy ad
ditions to their ranks before night.
Hudson county boulevard .police,
who Were called to, strike duty: dur­
ing the night, were relieved early to­
day, but were instructed to be ready,
for instant call.
BarrieadesBullt.
The .strikers Claimed today to :havo
established a picket line which abso­
lutely closed the southern end of the
peninsula, isolating the Standard Oil,
Tidewater Oil, General -Chemical and
International Nickel plants. Barri­
cades were being built to make this
siege effective.
,• George B. Hennessy, superintendent
of the Standard Oil plant, announced
the plant would remain closed until
the nten are willing to come back to
work it theip old wages.
WONDER IF THEY
UNDERSTAND NOW?
Mamie Koscinoski, 18 years old, was
a Pole. Perhaps that explains to the
average Duluthian how passionately
the girl loved liberty. Generation af­
ter generation of Polish ancestry with
all ttoe "beautiful* emotionalism of the
Polish people, resulted in p. bitter ha­
tred-of anything approaching repres­
sion or oppression.
Mamie had' "been confined in the
school for girls at Sauk Center, Minn.,
from whence she had been paroled.
She went to work for the Stone-T)r
dean-Wells coffee mills. She had beten
a good girl, people of practical, pro­
saic natures did not understand her,
that was all.
..Authorities :of the institution came
to the coffee milla for." her- Tuesday,
Oct. 3. And then Mamie became
frightened. She' simply followed the
instincts of the 'wild and tried to flee.
She. jumped from the third story win­
dow.
The funeral services were held at
the cathedral last Tuesday, and Ma­
mie's body was reverently placed in
the Polish cemetery by people who
understood.
ATLANTA CARMEN
DEMAND RECOGNITION
ATLANTA^ Ga., Oct. 12.—All mo
tormen and conductors of the'Georgia
Railway and Power company are on
a strike here today in an effort to
force the company to recognize the
union. The strike was precipitated by
the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce,
which organized a "law and order"
committee and made threats "keep­
ing the peace" before a strike was
called. This law and order -committee
also forced the discharge of several
carmen, who were the organizers of
the new union. The strike followed.
Carmen of Atlanta work from IS to
14 hours a day and receive from 17
to 35 cents an hour.
THREE REASONS.
The Independent, now Incor­
porated with Harper's Weekly, in
its recent national poll, received
a letter from Mrs. A. C. Hind
man, of Boiset Idaho, who stated
in three sentences her reasons
why President Wilson should be
re-elected. Her letter was ac­
corded hjgh praise by the editor
for its eptgramatic brevity.. They
are stated as follows:
(1) "He has kept us out of wjw."
(2) "He haslcept ns out of war."
"(I) He askeptusoutofwar."
