F . ' T eFAIR E DI TION
_ _ _ __crLsiiNF1
$L R The St. Tamnmany Farmer S
D. H. MASON, Editor COVINGTON, LA., SATURDAY,-OC1OBER 14, 1916. VOL. XLII No. 47
;.A ,Ti= i.~~, _ . . . - . . . .i .--. T -i . . '-" ' ] _ i,. . . . '.. . . i ~ r"-,.- . .--, . . . ..nn " "' nt " ~ l | u a,, i rm a ~
BOURGEOIS
THE
__ _ __ _ _ ,HOME FURNISHER _
-I
New Perfection Oil Stoves at AND Garden, Park, Landscape and
City Prices. ART STONE MANUFACTURER. Porch Firniture.
Jewelry and Silverware. AGENCIES: ' Hauling and Packing by ex
S Cut Glass. Buck Stoves and Ranges perienced men.
Musical Goods. . Columbia and Victor Phonographs Electrical Goons.
Cutlery. New Homne Sewing Machines Mazda Lamps.
'Eu
= Matting and Rugs. Lauter Pianos Pictures Framed to Order.
Window Shades. Ostermoor and Seely Mattresses Vudor Porch Awnings and
- Blankets and Comforts ..k Crescent Beds "Hammocks.
_____...... ',Crescent Line Furniture
CoHoosier Kitchen Cabinets
Wear-Ever Aluminum
y
Co Buy your Furniture and Household Goods at
Home and you will Save Money.=
TELEPHONE NO. 8 525 NEW HAMPIE ST
,, "r . . i ...
GREETINGS OF THE FAIR
ASSOCIATION, PRIZES, ETC.
.iA Complete List of All Premiums, as Contained in the
r Parish Fair Catalog, With Heads and Committees{
. of Various Departments, Boys and Girls Clubs.
PROGRAM OF THE DIFFERENT
DAYS OF THE FAIR AND RULES
Information That Every Exhibitor Should Have in Or
der That He May Systematically and Intelligently
K Enter Into Competition for the Various Prizes.
The Seventh Annual St. Tammany Parish Fair will open at Covington,
October 26th and continue four days, closing October 29, 1016. these
Sabnuaal fairs held in St. Tammany Parish, in the heart of the Osor' "llt
famed for its healthfulness, have truly grown "bigger and fetter than e,-r
Sbefore" with each showing. St. Tammany Parish, origi.ally noted for Its
- Sag leaf pine forests, has developed into a stock-raising and agricultural
parish. The management is making every effort to make 'these annual
events alricultural fairs, held primarily for the upbuilding of agriculture
a..£d to lead up to such ideals as will elevate, inspire, educate and broaden
the thbouht and activities of the rural people of this community. Consid
, rable money will be expended to entertain visitors and their comfort will
} hbe looked aftercontinually. About $1500 is offered in prise money.
r The newness and awkwardness due to some unfinished work when the
fai opened for the first time on the new fair grounds, last year, caused
f~ betusion in handling the vast crowds, but this year ample time has beea.
allowed for work on the buildings and rules made for parking of ,cars and
Shandling pedestrains without confusion.
All morally objectionable side shows, all gambling devices, all eatchi
Prnny swindlers and all vendors of worse than useless trash will be ex
Ciaded from the grounds.
SMsic will be furnished by the Covington Municipal Band under the
perion.l direction of Prof. P. Giraudet, a band leader of fame, late of
Paeri and Canada. Daily concerts with dancing at night will contigpe
to be a feature.
T; he management of the fair this year, with few exceptions, remains the
'. se. J. H. Warner, who heads the Association, is also president of the
Ciington Association of Commerce and is secertary and treasurer of the
" . Tammany Farmers' Association. C. E. Schonberg is vice president,
E. G. Davis is treasurer. It is with considerable regret that we have
` kstate that during the past year the Grim Reaper claimed M. Watt Allen,
.j5e of the prime movers in the organization of the Fair Association who
served as Superintendent of the Poultry Department since its incipi
y. Thirty evergreen trees along the main driveway in the fair grounds
v¢ been planted as a memorial to him, being a donation for that pur
from his aunt, Mrs. Mattie Williams, of Shreveport. Mrs. B. Ba.
is Superintendent of the Women's Division. Richard L. Camp
be Superintendent of the Poultry Division. Mr. Camp is a breeef
onghbred poultry and is planning to make the Poultry Departmennn
ure of the Fair. M. Nielsen, graduate of Copenhagen University, w
r Superintendent of Stock and Swine Department. Farm Demonstrator
C. Lewis will be in charge of the Agricultural Exhibits. Miss fartha
. Canning Club Agent, will .be in charge of the exhibits from her
members. 1AR
$ ystery surrounds the disappearance of D. J. Sanders who was Seers
and General Manager and has served as president durig
fairs. Shortly after the close of the fair last year Mr. Sanders made a
trip to New Orleans stating that he would be gone a few days. However,
all trace of him disappeared and his leave-taking has not been explained
up until'the present time. .Mr. Sanders left pll books and moneys due the
Association in Covington and no shortage was charged against him. N. H
FitaSimong, who was president last year, has been selected as Secretary
and General Manager, and all requests for information or catalogs should
be tteMto his office in Covington.
At this t~me we wish to request thalt the people of St. Tammany Parish
use special care in preparing their exhibits. Enter every article of merit
from your farm or home. Make your entries early. No entry fee will
be charged for entries in the Women's Department or Agricultural Depart
ment;,and the cash prizes offered are numerous.
For the first time this year the fair will be run on Sunday, in order to
give everyone an opportunity to see the exhibits and witness some of the
etent.s
The gates will open earlier each day, except the opening day, in order
that visitors may arrange to spend the day at the fair and take their meals
in the Pair Restaurant, which will again be operated by the ladies of the
Women's Progressive Union, serving the best of meals at reasonable
prices.
Our new grand stand and half mile track will be ready for your inspec
tlon when the fair opens. The new baseball diamond and tennis courts
we aim to maike second to none in the State.
We want your Fair, the Seventh Annual, to be a success to add to the
record Whiph now includes six successful events, as follows:
.Pirst'Aninual Fair, November 6, 7, 1910.
Seconld An.~al Fair, November 9, 10, 11, 1911.
Third Annual .Fair, November 7, 8, 9, 10, 1912.
Fourth, Annual Fair, October 22, 23, 24, 25, 1913.
Fifth AnndalsNir, November 4, 5, 6, 7, 1914.
Sixth Annual Fair, November 4, 5, 6, 1915.
All'hhlvebeen held in Covington, the parish seat of St. Tammany parish,
in the heart of the Ozone Belt.
CIA)ING OF EN. 'IES TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, UNLESS OTHERWISE
AUTHORIZED.
In emh aznd every department a'nd class where premiums are offered,
unless otherwise specified, entries will positively close Tuesday, October
24th, at 5 o'clock p. m., and no entries will be received for premiums after
that date. Animals and articles are- required to be on the grounds and
properly placed by Thursday, October 26, at 12 o'clock noon.
Proper feed for all live stock and poultry will be furnished, on the
gronnd4 at market prices in quantities to suit the purchaser, and com
petent attendants will be constantly present to look after all animals.
However, any exhibitor who so desires may place a special attendant in
chagge .of hi, live stock or poultry and may furnish his own feed, all at
his own expense.
NOT REiPONSIBLE FOR LOSS.
The St. Tammany Parish Fair Association will use every precaution in
the r0 fa *menat of all departments, but will not be responsible for loss
Spvr eadý et. ,Competent assistants will have charge of all exhibits, whose
.I [will be to personally attend to the cooping, feeding and care of
ail.tock entered for competition and to see to it'that each specimen is re
tttpe to itsa roper owner at the close of the Fair. No one will be al.
lo.wed to handle stock except the owner and Superintendent.
Judgeg de instructed that if they have reason to believe that an ex
hititor,'by false entry or otherwise, attempts to deceive and obtain an
award-hy misrepresentation, they shall forfeit all premiums awarded them.
-*ll- exlflibitors In all departments are prohibited from entering inside
thle raiang, or from helping themselves in removing any of their exhibits
at close ot the Fair, except as they are waited upon by assistants appoint
ed for- tat 4urpose. Any exhibitor violating this rule shall forfeit
premiums.
All articles must be entered in proper form and entry cards obtained be
fore space will be assigned. All applications for entry must be made to
the Secretary, who will furnish blanks for that purpose.
REMOVAL OF EXHIPPIF S.
Exhibitors must promptly. claim and remove their property at the close
of the Fair. No exhibits will be allowed to be removed from the building
or grounds until 5 p. m.. October 29, without special permit.
PRICE OF ADMISSION.
For each person, whether in carriage, on horse, or afoot, 10 cents.
Children under 7 years, free.
PROGRAM.
Opening Day--Thursday, -October 26, 1916.
Gates open.at 1:00 p. m.
.Parade of automobiles and carriages forming at foot of Columbia street
at noon, led by fair officials and honorary vice-presidents, proceeding to
r irAQtuuds.
Formal opening of fair by President J. H. Warner.
Tennis tournament starts immediately alter speaking.
Inspection of exhibits.
Band concert, and entertainment.
Dancing at night.
Gates close at 10:00 p. m. ,
Second Day, "School )ay," Friday, Qctober 27.
Gates open at 10:00 a. m.
Scholars of colleges, private and public schools of the parish, 'will as
semble at 9:00 a. m. at the courthouse, there form in rank and parade to
,the Fair Grounds.
Visiting schools to compete for School Day Cup offered by the Associa
tion to visiting school making best showing in parade-award to be made
on points figuring enrollment percentage in parade, distance traveled and
appearance.
Children and teachers in parade admitted to grounds free.
Superintendent Elmer E. Lyon, GrandlMarshal of Parade.
Free-for-all school athleties.
Judging stock, poultry and agriculture.
Baseball game at 2 p., m, Covington vs. Frankllnton.
Bapd concert and entertainment.
Dancing at night.
Gates close at 10:00 p. m.
Third Day, "Farmers' Day," Satmday, October US.
Gates open at 10:00 a. m.
Carnival parade, under auspices of Firemen's Association, forming at
Engine House at 9 a. m. to proceed to Fair Grounds. Maskers in parade
admitted free.
E. V. Iichard, Grand 2Marshal of Parade.
Prizes to maskers.
Special prizes to farmers.
Heart-to-Heart talks on Agriculture and Stock Raising -by Speeialists.,
Parade of prize-winning live stock.
Public school athletic contests.
Baseball game, 2:00 p. m. Covington v,. Bogalusa.
Band concert and entertainment.
Auctton sale of registered cattle and pure bred swine.
Dancing at night.
Gates close at 11:00 p. m.
Fourth Day, Closing Day, Sunday, October gO.
Gates open at 10:00oa. m.
Announcement of prize-winners in tennis and athletic contests.
Baseball game at 2:00 p. m. Covington vs. Slidell.
Band concert and entertainment.
Gates close at 7:00 p. m.
RACEB.
For information regarding speed events, mule races, etc., to be staged
on the new track, address George A. Ryan, Supt., Covington, La.
ATIHLETIC DEPAR¶ITENTI-A. J. Parka Superintendent;
Thursday, October 26--Tennis.
Ladies' singles; men's singles; ladies' doubles; men's doubles; miled
doubles.
A registration feepof 50 cents will be charged each'contestant for each
event.
All entries must be in the hands of the Superintei:dent of Athletics by
6 p. m., Tuesday, October 24.
Cups to winners.
Friday, October 27, 191--4thletli Day.
100 yard dash; 220 yard dash; high Jump; pole vault; running broad
jump; half mile race; hop tsep and jump.
Half mile walk.
Medals to winners.
A fee of 25 cents will be charged each contestant.
All entries must be made to the Superintendent of Athleties by 6 p. m.,
Tuesday, October 24.
Any person living in the State of Louisiana, who Is not classed as a
professional, is eligible to enter the above events.
Saturday, October 2--Publle School Ahle
s2-inch class-Running broad jump; standing broad jump; 50 yard
dash; 100 yard dash.
64"inch class---Running broad jump; high jump; 100 yard dash; 220
yard dash.
Unlimited class-Running broad jump; high jump; 100 yard dash;
220 yard.daah; half mile race.
A fee of 25 cents will be charged each contestant.
Medals to winners.
Prize to school making highest number of points.
(Ceatinuet en peg 3
,@ .
SPECIAL PRZE
DONAT ED BY
INDIVIDUALS
Have Been Offered Slut
Catalog Weni to Pr ,Se
Also Raioad Reta -
Adults and Children Will B
Charged Only 50e Fromi wt
The race track and tennis cota
a lwilnearly ompletd and rill be in
good condition e when the fair opes.
.The' poulty department is expeet.
ed to present a moh .aer appear-:=
ance than 'at any previous fair, by
reason of the use of uni.mor camps:
'which will be i urnished *d ibitors.
The material for these coope has ar-,
rived and the coops are being 'pr
'together. Every exhibit will be .
cooped exatly alike.
There wiltalso be great improve
ment in the accmmodalon ftor'
ladies, modern conveniences being
,provided in connection with the rest
room.
The cattle stalls will also be 'est
1y improved In light and 'eanl.sa.
The following list eof prises have
been offered elnce the list inf tho-sat
alog went to press, dad thesefore will
not be found there:
Beef Cattle.
Grand Champaion Burll--iLovih
Cup--P. E. Smith, Codlngton, La.
Grand Ohampfon eml -410.00
In Gold--J. H. HeintM, Covlngton.
Aged Herd--420.00 suit of clothes, .
made to order-Prank fatecek, Cov
lngton.
Young ,Herd--$10.00 in Gold-R.
.L. Aubert, Coviagton.
Calf Herd--$S.00 pair of shoese
Paul J. Lacroix, Covington.
Best Hereford Bull---Half barrel
paint, any color-Pine Stump Pro
duct Co., Theobald, La.
Begt Steer, any age or breed--lst
prize, Loving Cup. .
Second Prise-Bal tullfa Hag
St. Tammany Hay and-raulfn Waroe
l.ouse.
Best Displar of tr.a stock--ouv
ing Cup-Covimgtn Assoedlatlom. of :
Commerce.
(Coutlnued -e ig .i js S
