NIGHT
EXTRA
Euentng
j9ffBa(w
4bbbV gauges LH. a BB
SJrttaer
NIGHT
EXTRA
IH.-NO. 27
IN ARMY
fG BACK IN
fSYLVAMA
Attempt at In
Through Red
rer Pass Crushed
PHUiADEKPIIIA, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1010
CornraitT. lots. t rm rrsuo Iihii Coktikt.
PRICE OlOD OXWE.
BOMBARD SERES
Battle Raging on Carso in
Kalian Drive lor
Trieste
rJhn!n army In Transylva-
Ijritwd ana ftdmmisicrca a cnecit
sAittro-Gcrman forces of Gen-
i Falkenhayn. The Rumanians
grated Falkcnhyn'a attempt
their country mrougn mo
Rtthenthurm) Pass and
. kir ti Teutons several miles
jfe border, a report from London
fauUv. The Austro-ucrmans
iImb halted everywhere along tho
-'.Transvlvanla ironuer ana
ater-attaeks on the eastern
- hire been flung bacK, accora-
L Bwharest
fighting on the Struma ana
iu fronts Is irrowlnir in vio-
fh British arc bombarding the
I y of Seres, heavily garrisoned
bjarians.
RMlna mirrprnVd in rcOCCU-
; jarf of Ablalncourt village in
: attack nreceded by screen lire
kettfce Soramc last night and also
i Bonnwesi oi wo , iw
I tndav. Tho French immedi-
Moatcr-attacked and drovo the
I'from tho positions.
mnarts that a furious battle is
Wtween Cadorna's trooca and
iwtrians in the streets of Locvizza
gHI 1Og, oa ule uanu i iuitu.
Kenans have reached the second
ettae Carso defense and are at-
fceu If TYIfinc hpnritirnv flesnltA
kesicrn resistance of the Aus-
L-- I
flKCE OF RUMANIANS
mUNSYLVANIA STIFFENS,
iV8 DISPATCHES SHOW
r, i . 1
vTJ5 "" LONDON, Qct. 1.
LXimanUns hare halted an attempt-
Jerroan.. Invasion south of 'the
- pis and tiara driven tbe Teu-
: a considerable distance from th
, LBuehareet dispatches today re-
, that General von Falkehhayn's ad-
i has been checked everywhere along
rn Transylvanian frontier. On
dern frontier the Germans have been
on the Rumanian northern wing
i back at some points by strong
tttacks. Elsewhere the Rumanian
i Is alio ettffenlnr. "
(.'tatties on both allied wings In the
i are again becomlngmore violent.
rjblttsh are at the qutsklrts of the city
already under bombardment, and
''eared the surrounding' country of
ay. On the left wing the Bulrars
; been counter-attacking desperately.
! hare'been unable to bend back the
illne.
Cwiatantlne. despite the rrowth of
I feattelos movement In Greece, con-
t delay plans for Greece's entry
war. The King told a diplomat.
to the Athens correspondent of
ly" Chronicle, that he u nnv(ni-i4
Wemiea would overrun Rumania wlth-
days, and that he feared Greece
a like fate It she joined ths
I BEM.IW n 11
Ipksa Romanian soldiers rounded up
M" German and Hungarian popu-
LV5 Transylvania, and drove
e? we Alt River 'by the use of
a an offlctal jtatement Issued
a. Though tha rtvi t (,
1 t deep, those who tHd. ..,
r drlyen back into the water.
iander of the Fourth numanlan
uenerai Bunionesou, removed all
wis furnltura hm .. v -m
a.. - - i h nia own noma.
"a and Hungarian shops In p0.
- looiea.
M8 ENTEIl ATlMrvrnrrnrii
! WMME, BUT ARE DRIVEN
"iAUAlN, PARIS SAYSf
s TA13Ta rmA 1J
trooM penetrated the vllUga'of
b SOtttll Of tHr, Bonn,. Hi v..4
'Ijr driven out by a Frenah Vun-
,unlqua of the Srenoh TYar
' "STas has been ma!. K- ..
I Wi of the Somme, The hardest
t aewevj- t... - . " . . .-
m. ' "re south of the
JPth M twenty.four hfura.
ZZZiT?"lV7. .Wattli the
r-- v AOMiiaa&urt and sue-
PENNSYLVANIA DEMOCRATS OFF TO SUMMER WHITE HOUSE
JJr FgHTPiT!P''gJBIlBaBBMk' r vV 'uMHaBvaBmaBaBaBwaBBaaHaaaaLHSBaaM'
Wts.111 T I rilWJlisfflWBr V ' " HWWHBfHpjMfHHHHSjaSJBJS
K? iSHaigiglteLSgBi'i'f '4sglglllglgHHgHHlaglgl
IgM 'BsKKlsggBWggggagt,iWssy i BggggTLgtHBwBlBTWalalLIB i
BSK'aE I gf ' V tNgjklP r ill mJJM&' JsKBSil gggggggBaSslaBggggBgflgaggflBBgBSB Mg8'
jt SBglgslHgswgs agSaV at TBk'fM' "X i W S at ?a3. w BBgBSBK Bf SBSBggBSBBBAV jgggggggflBBBBSBSa ik
HgasssssasUgaH aP'3K1w't'V MgMgslWBl.',ly'aV gsttff i TASgTaKt PJiMlk, IgsmgssLsM'-l
Vjgssssssssssssf .P7-' J r' Vk gasssssssatwELvgsgaassR m gassssm VbgassssssssssssasM ll
&9MgaBSBSBSBSBsBgaasBSBsai V'li. R slaaaaPggaaM ,'fr '- WgaasaWrSaF A bsbsbsbsbsbsbst SgaaSBSBSBSassaH '
tlSggggSU'nMi'i IgHH'iJggl'' t,ggggK.ibBgggggH.
MlJVa'tU'. '.iM.JiiJ?i Vi".5f
ri - -r. rT . ' i 7TS. ' itaST J "7"
ryffi'w jpjiv . .. ncj.v -. tt jl-j t . - i .. -r .- .. .T
t it 7t " .........-.-...,.i,.1,T unit, axt..,1,IJrijIfc,',jm. iria, it.Ujt,V'J
uuuib iiRurcs in ucmocrauc city ana Htnte pocs were included in the host which wnt by sptcial trnins
ui nRrBJSndl Hy,0 hcar p"!dent Wilson speak. Left to right hero arc Robert S. Bright, of Philadel
phia; W. Wayno Hindman, State Senator; A. R. Johnson, John C. Barclny, John F. Short, Postmaster John
A. Thornton, of Philadelphia, and W. J. Brcnnen.
'teaed aa ru. r. ....! ..
JTHE WEATHER. :
t. wi. iTjrTT' ..rrM
Mar ,17 " "
PL u i ' 1 1 - a r x
"111 .li. I, i ni una
U-53 CHASED LINER
BOVIC, PILOT SAYS;
CAPTAIN DENIES IT
0
Presence of Gun Believed to
Have Prevented
Attack
DANISH SHIP PURSUED
NEW YORK, Oct 14. The steamship
Bovlo, whloh reported by wireless yesterday
that she had seen a submarine 200 miles
east of New York, arrived here today. There
were conflicting reports on the submarine
story following the ship's arrival.
The captain denied to reporters that a
submarine had been seen, but the pilot who
brought the ship up the bay said that the
captain hod told him that a German sub
marine had not only been seen, but chased
the Bovlo, The vessel was followed for
some time, but the presence of a gun
mounted on her stern Is believed by the
pilot to have saved the ship.
nf DAnrNd' sea, dash.
The last seen of the submarine accord
ing to the pilot's story, she was chasing the
Danish ship Helllg Olavi which sailed from
this port 'earlier In the weak.
The Bovlo Is a British- freighter; and
salted from Manchester,
The Helllg Olav sailed from this port for
Copenhagen on Thursday, carrying many
paaengers and a general cargo. Belief, was
expressed In maritime circles that the sub
marine would not sink the liner, but that
the vessel was being chased to establish her
nationality.
SEEN FBIDAT MOIININO
Captain John Hall, the pilot who brought
the Bovlo up the bay, told the following
story?
"On the bridge coming up the bay Cap
tain Jones, of the Bovlo, told ma that his
lookout sighted the U-53 while steaming
about sixty miles east of Nantucket at C
o'clock Friday morning. She was about a
mile astern. As soon aa tha submarine
was sighted the gun crew waa assembled.
No shots were fired, although tha sailors
were sure they could have sunk tbe Ur
boat. The submarine, after following fan
about a quarter of a mile, suddenly veered
her course and started In the direction of
the Helllg Olav. At the time the Danish
shlp.'was about three miles away and could
be made out plainly. Those on the Bovlo
got their last glance of tha submarine as
she was going at top spaed toward tha
liner."
HELLIQ OfcAV 700 MILES OFF SHORE
At the oOloes of the'flcandlnavlan-Amer-Ican
IJno It was said that, although tha
Helllg Olav had bean In constant commu
nication with the officers of the line since
her departure, no mention had been made
of the incident reported by the Bovtc.
It was estimated that tha Helllg Olav
was now 600 or 700 miles from port, and
tt was thought vtrr unlikely that subma
rines would interfere wttn her except pos
sibly to stop" her to examme her papers.
Jt was pointed out that tha Scandinavian
American Line has never carried munitions
nor contrabands and never had any trouble
with U-boats.
BOSTON, Oct 1. -Absolutely nothing
has been heard of the German submarine
U-51 slaee reports were received from the
steamship Bovlo early yesterday, tha
Cbarlastown radio station reported today,
A report, was current here that the sub
marine had been seaa off the Massachusetts
coast, apparently in pursuit of a Dutota
steamship. Tills was confused 'with reports
from fJie Bovlo whloh contained statements
from passengers that the submarine was
sighted ohasltig the Danish passenger ship
Helllg Olav yesterday morning,
TIIBEE GIKLS RUN AWAY
Theater Struck, Parent Belleye-rPo-llec
Seek Then
Three girl", all friends, were reported
missing today, ,
Their parents told the peHe they believe
the glrU are either try t ,ir
as ushers In this oHr w bM'
farther aa4 fer the studios la New York.
.., .u'ki 'Jesesfclne SeaMfe, fourteen.
je KoVse street J Marts I-Md, thlrteea.
aM( Cleveland aveawe, a INtta)
Dtaoei, siavaeav 1 04eR street ,A
of fair Mlat for their pa. TM rsjse.
tto pareuU aJe4 the eTuia at efear
rtm a, pat to o-.uaiaif4- W
jto)$ saew i an
KEYSTONE DEMOCRATS,
5000 STRONG, OFF FOR
SHADOW AWN JAUNT
Pilgrimage to Hear President
Speak Headed by Many Post-
masters and Other Federal
Officeholders
900 FROM PHILADELPHIA
Mora than 6000 Pennsylvania Democrats.
Including S00 from Philadelphia, are Jour
neying this morning to Shadow Lawn, the
summer White House at Long Branch, N. J
to greet President 'Wilson and hear the
Chief Executive deliver an address this aft
ernoon. Nearly every delegation that left from
.arlous parts of the State this morning was
headed by a postmaster or some other Fed
eral officeholder.
Tbe Philadelphia contingent left here
at 11 o'clock on three special trains,
headed by Postmaster John M. Thornton,
Collector of the Port William H. Berry,
Collector of Internal Revenue Ephralm
Lederer, United States District Attorney
Francis Flther Kane, and, Nt4 Officer
WlllUmjCroll. The City Committee is send
ing 600 "pilgrims" under City Chairman
Edgar W. Lank, Charles P, Donnelly and
James I. Gillespie,
Four special trains left the northeastern
and central parts of tha State early this
morning. Ths delegations on them wire
headed by Federal officeholders.
United States Marshal Frank J, Noonan
Is leading a delegation of fifty from Scran
ton and WUkes-Barre. Warren Van Dyke,
secretary of the State Committee and for
mer Deputy Collector here. Is at the head
GERMANY DOUBTS
WILSON'S ABILITY
TO MAKE PEACE
"Former Methods Do Not
Apply Now," Ernest
Posze Says
"WEST FRONT WILL HOLD"
Continued an Pass Twi, Column Two
DENNIS AGAIN ACCUSES
GIBB0NEY OF ATTEMPT
TO END WAR ON SALOON
Declares He Was Advised in Ad
vance of License Court De
cision for Burke
Barroom
DOESN'T MIND EPITHETS
Charge Against Gibboney,
His Reply and Rejoinder
THE CHARGE
"TWfR. GIBBONEY told me that
1V1 tho Judges had decided to grant
the transfer. Ho said if I would
withdraw my remonstrance I would
be 'taken care of."' Harry C.
Dennis.
THE COUNTERCHARGE
"There is not a shred of truth in
anything that fellow says. Every
statement" is unqualifiedly -false. The
whole matter is a pack of dirty,
miserable Ji. Xou cannot make
that statement too strong for me,"
D. Clarence Gibboney.
TE RECOUNTERCHARGE
"I stand . by every word., of my
charges. Mr. Gibboney has always
resorted to .denials when challenged.
His manner is not worth noticing,
but I will make a public statement
later." Harry C. Pennis.
D Clarence Gibboney" a declaration that
the aeeusatlons Riado against htm by Harry
jC. Dennis 'were "a pack of dirty, miserable
lies" today evoked reply from Dennis that
increases the scandal .arising from ths
transfer t Michael J. Burke's Uquer 11-
to Sixtieth street ana iansaowne
eecse
avenue. ,
Deaals today reiterated bis accusations
that the head of the Law and Order Soelety
had informed him la advancn of the LI
eenae Court's deetsten to graat .the transfer
and had also suggested that, Dennis would
be 'taken eara or If he' wHMrew"Ws op
pesWloa to the application.
' -1 stand W everythlmr that X have ea,ld
In this matter and refer to y reputation
aawag mf neighbors In the twanty'-atae
yr I fesve lived la this Motlea aa t M
veracity," aaM paaats. "M, OWney May
4y aM he waates or may eat! aae what
atasi aesases without alUriac tfce UaU.
raa what I kva read a Wt mhejasiey'lae
reaosta t eeaUeJs wise a to .feel-
, By CARL W. ACKERMAN
COLOONE, Oct. II. "If those fellows
make peace only when Oermany la knocked
out, then we will make peace."
This declaration came today from Ernest
Posxe, editor of the Cologne Gazette, and
probably Germany's greatest editor. His
thirty-three years connection with that
powerful Journal makes him probably tha
best unofficial spokesman of the empire In
replying to Lloyd George's recent state
ment that "the war must go on to a finish."
"For weeks the Allies have conducted a
press campaign against peace, especially at
Washington," said Posse. "They have said
repeatedly that there will be no peace until
we are broken, until they reach the Rhine.
Thesa statements liaVe strenBtrmned'our
position enormously. In my opinion the
military situation la better today than It
was a year ago. Tha Allies will never be
able to break the west front, while the sit
uation on other fronts may Improve. The
people are filled with confidence In von
Hlndenburg."
"OLD METHODS DONT APPLY"
"Can President Wilson make peace T" he
was asked.
"This War Is so enormous that the meth
ods for bringing peace which applied for
merly do not apply today," he replied. t'An
International congress cannot settle It. The
only plan Is for Wilson through Ambas
sadors to suggest that special envoys meet
In Washington, but I don't believe this
would succeed now,
"The Allies want peace on their own
terms, which wo certainly will not consider,
Here, as elsewhere, there are peace-at-any-price
folk, but the German people, as a
whole, want peace only when we can exist
aa a nation."
"ESSENTIAL" CONDITIONS
Three things the Gazette editor considers
essential to peace, so far as Oermany Is
concerned, are:
rint Tho military situation mmt
be considered Germany moil follow
ntemarck's poller of protecting her
weetern boundary, perhapi by taking
the French fortreee of Ilelfort, and, ae
tha Chancellor Indicated, ehe mill have
an Independent Poland on her other
frontier to protect her egatnet ltnielaa
aggreeolon.
Second Germany nml derHop and
protect her agricultural resources, ee
that ehe will no lonser be dependent
on .Argentina and Kosela for wheat or
cattle. She mmt protect her Indoetrtee,
eo that ehe can exlet In the erent of
another war without outelde aid. If
noeeeeary.
Third Germany mnit consider her
international position and must hare
colonies,
Posze believes that Chancellor von Beth
mann-Hollweg will retain, his post for the
remainder of the war. despite the attacka
pf hla critics. Field Marshal von Hlnden
burg, he feels, Is the key to the whoje situ
ation, and so long as Hlndenburg' and tha
Kaiser join with Bethmann-Holtweg In op
posing unlimited submarine warfare It will
not be renewed.
V
PRESIDENT BUYS A BROOCn
Upsets Sales Force of ,Al"-ry Park
Store by Purchase of Costly Jewelry
ASBPBY PAWC N, J.. Oct. -Imprest
dent Wilson upset the entire sales force of
a local Jewelry store today when he came
over from Shadow Lawn, to purchase a
platinum brooch set with diamond. For
whom the purchase waa mads Is not known.
"My goodness!" exclaimed a - saleslady
after the President had left, "I couldn't try
to sell him what he wanted, because I was
"tryli to figure out if he was the Presi
dent" l
She was so "fluttered" that aha" brought
out a lot of ehaap brooches before' she, found
What the President wanted.
f In aaatcineT the purohase her the Presi
dent 'ailed In the stHot sense of the. word
to patronise "home Industry," taamuon as
hs wife la the proprietor of te of tfea lead
" ,J"eWTWrTy PaW(MBMteWa 4d rVsWMnffl(
lUfcert Swan, Itwgwiser, Me
bar!, sM oa of the ewaatrys 'nidlnf
agyrtatfee 4 at aj ausa bam teelay.
EXTRA
ALMNMhVRRSrCILIANSUNK . '
ify TORPEDO, RUMOR IN MONTREAL
MOKvit&AL, Oct. 14 A rumor it In eireultiUon 'that tho Allan
i net aicMtnd ha ben torptdeetj. Officials hero snld the Sicilian
steainca on the 0th Attn aliould by thU time bo off tho const of Iic
lnnaV Tliwe la no word here of attacks on any other vodsels. Officials
of the hrfrndHtsi I'ftelftc Railway charnettJtlzwl the leports na ludi
crous. AHTI'DIVORCE CANON KlLLlSD BY EPISCOPALIANS
ST. LCtSTS. Oct. 14. The House of Dc-mUm nud the House of
JUtshpa of the frelestout Xnlseopnl OUurcn, in Jolut 'session this
aiteruudn, kTTTsd n leeolution thnt wtuld have prohibited the marriage
of nil dlvoreedepersona in the church.
BANDITS. SNATCH S3800 PAYROLL
CHICAGO, Oct. 14. Three bnndits committed n during hold-u.
in Wabash nvrnuo shortly beforo noon today and escaped with a bar
rontnlnlug 3800. Tho three men met E. J. Llpsch, purchasing agent
for prlntinjf concern, on hie return from the bank, grabbed the
bag coutnfuing the payroll money and oecnped In n limousine. Hun
dred! of perming wete pacing nt the time.
NORrOLK CITY MARKET BURNED; MAN FALLS DEAD
NC'TOLK. Vs., Oct. 14. Norfolk's city mnikut, an old framo
tnietwre, uMupylng nn entire block adjoining City Hall, wub do
atioyexl by fire today. 11. V. Twif- an nged huckster, fell dead of
apeplosy while aiding in fighting the flauics. Plans had already
bm dmwjt for n new market hulldiug and woik of razing the old
Mruelur was to begin at an early' date.
U. S. NEAR CRISIS
WITH ALLIES IN
CLASH ON MAIL-
Critical Point in Dispute
Expected Within Next
Week
ALSO STIRRED BY U-BOATS
Next Six Wcoka May Prove ths
Most Eventful In Ameri
can History
., .
PENN FRESH LEAD WILLIAMSON
FXANKMIT l'lELD, Oct. 14. Penn Treah led -Williamson School
13-0, nt thcond of the second porlod in tho preliminary game today.
Tho Itetl and Ulue youngsters scoied a touchdown and goal in tho
first period And another touchdown in tho second, from which the
goal was missed; ' '
- ?- -'. -.,'
, V " -
UjllOA SINKS FRENCH CRUISERRICEL
$KVfy05f 14AntWaul)iaarl,4eank Uio rtciicli cruiser
rUgrtlBt3lB-i 2. a?hi& torpedolng,oj: the Trench
i'niir C1la'ftH"OetLir'e, fn whfeh diio thduatuid fiuuch and Serb
jen fojjcHvh!M, sin nlso tiffiolnlly "announced today.
ELECTION ODDS TIGHTEN; HUGHES MEN OFFER 8 TO 5
NEW YOniC, Oct. H. Wall street odds against President Wilson's re-election
tightened today. Betting commissioners reported plenty of Wilson money to be
put on the short end of 2-to-l bets. Hughes bettors, however, nre holding out for
8 to 5. A single wager of 15000 to f.10,000 was offered against Hughes, but refused.
A Hughes backer countered with an offer of 120,000 at 8 to 6.
AMERICAN AIKMAN'S LEGS BROKEN IN FRANCE
PARIS, Oct. 14. Normun Prince, an American member of the aviation corps,
has suffered fractures of both legs In an aeroplane accident. It was announced to
day that he was progressing favorably. Prince, who Is from Boston, Is one of tha
foremost members of the American contingent In the French air service.
SENTENCED IN PARIS; CLAIMS U. S. CITIZENSHIP
PAItlS, Oct, 14. William Chester Sllbertmann, who says "he Is an American
citizen, was today sentenced to six months' Imprisonment and fined 1100 for trading
with the enemy. He was the agent for a German rubber house.
$250,000,000 INVESTED IN DWELLINGS IN ft' MONTHS
N13W YORK, Oct, 14. According to reports compiled in New York today,, mere
than 1350,000,000 prosperity cash has already gone Into the purchase or constric
tion of private dwellings during tha last nine months, and estimates from all paits
of the country Indicate that fully S00,000,O00 will be the year's total Investment In
such- properties'
EIGHT-HOUR INQUIRY TO START SOON
WASHINGTON, Oct. 14 Preliminary work on a nation-wide Investigation of
the recently enacted eight-hour day railroad law will be started almost imme
diately by President Wilson's Klght-Hour Day Commission, headed by Major Gen
eral George W, Goethals. Conferences between General Goethals, Trade Commis
sioner Qoorge Rubles and Interstate Commerco Commissioner Clark, the other mem;
bers of the committee, have already taken up the question of preliminary organ
By JOHN EDWIN NEVIN
WASHINGTON. Octw 14. Complication
between the United States and tha Entente
Powers will come to a critical point within
the next week. Already the Joint refusal of
Great Britain and France to accept the
American construction or International law
as applied to malt Is before the mate De
partment The reply to the demand that
the British blacklist be abolished Is an
route from London. It In effect aays that
this action is of no concern to the United
States, as It Is a "legitimate measure of de
fense." It is said In official quartern that Presi
dent Wilson probably will take no steps le.
define the position of the United States in
either matter until after election. Then. It
re-elected, he will take advantage of the
embargo authorizations conferred on him
by the shipping bill and the general revenue
bill which passed In tha closing daya of
Congress. But whether he will utilize thta
weapon In tha event of Ms defeat naturally
is known only to himself.
MAY STIR RESENTMENT
The next six weeks promise to be most
critical in the history of the United States.
Although the danger of complications over
German submarine operations on this side
of the Atlantlo overshadows the mall and
trade questions, which deal entirely with
dollars and cents, It Is accepted that any
draatlo action by the Administration to de
mand Its rights, as It understands them
under Its construction of International law,
at the hands of Great Britain will lead to
further resentment there, where Wilson
methods are not too popular at present
In connection with the submarine situa
tion, reports ha,Ye reached several Govern
ment departments that the operations of
the U-5S were not the nrst on this aide
of the ocean. Certain vessels, on "Admir
alty service," plying between Canadian
ports and Great Britain with supplies, are,
said to have been chased by submarine.,
within ten daysand atlerW'reporte
to have been sunk. These report's, nat
urally, are Impossible of confirmation her.,
because of ths fact that the British nawii
authorities Jn Canada maintain, their, eea
aorshlp. It is admitted, however, that British
warships and destroyers have been search
ing for more than a month along the bleak
and uninhabited coast of Labrador and at
other points of the Canadian coastline fer
a possible German submarine base similar
to those discovered off the coast of Scot
land early in the war. This base, or base,
according to reports, was established frost
the United States.
SEEK GERMAN BASES
And while tha British and American fleets
continue to make Independent search of
their own coast line for submarine bases,
olUclals here said that even though they are
located within the United States there 'la
no law which provides any drtitlo punish
ment tor their establishment on American
soil. Any prosecutions that might take
place, It Is said, would be limited to such
narrow lines that those responsible would
have a good chance of escaping punishment
on technicalities. It Is expected that, as
result of this discovery, comprehensive law
covering every phase of such a situation
will be asked by President Wilson of Con
gress when It reconvenes In December.
Up to the present all of the reports frost
the naval officers who are conducting th
search for.the rumored submarine base on
American soli Indicate that nona has beea
discovered. If German submarines have
been supplied off the American coast,
official say they were probably taken oars
of by privately owned yachts against whose
owners no evidence Is possible. And so far
as th U-BJ and U-tl are concerned,
offlolals here believe that they now are well
on their way back to their home base.
-,
iti
BRITAIN TO CONTROL ALLIES' WHEAT ANQ FLOUR
WASHINGTON, Oct. 14. The British Government has taken over the .task of
"rationing" not only Great Britain, but also the Allies, so far aa wheat and flour
axe concerned, according to a dispatch to the State Department of Consul General
Skinner at London, made public here today. The dispatch makes It clear that a
British royal commission will "purchase, sell and control" the general Allied nupply
of wheat and flour, a-
PARIS POLICE FIGHT SOCIETY PPIUM DENS
PARIS. Oct. 14. A campaign ha been launched to wipe out th opium den
in th fashionable quarter of Pari. In on raid the police found quarters fitted
up in the most luxurious style for opium parties for society men and women. la
one of these palatial resort in th Fare Moneeau district the pollee came upon Jean
Outtry, sen of. Franco' greatest actor. Gultry denies, that he gave drug parties,
but he will be prosecuted, the authorities said, for having nareotlea in hi poasaeelen
unlawfully.
- . r
TWO MORE DEATHS FROM INFANTILE PARALYSIS
Two deaths from infant!! paralysis were reported today, brjng4- the teUJ
death to 37T, No new oaaa were reported, The ehUdren were Raymond Axler,
four years eW, of 2431 North Corlles street, and Kate MMeney, fourteen months, ef
MM Bouth, Bancroft rrtreet. , -'
,
OKOZCO AND TWLV FOLLOW! W. HOT TO DIATH
TeQaXICQ CITY, Oet 14. afI aJsaltto Orosee, a tfc aepai foroas, who by
Miw trouhk ta tie Mate of Meat, w oatut4 wsia tHW hi aaaa aavl ell
KgBBfjaas fjiu isB9BHIUeaatBBBlsBBBVflBTL ajssiMaBBjsjaaajjif-er- u fgaVtsUgflaBB UlB
etsTsT'sTsTJJsTeT 1 aBBs7ajBi,r' f WB'asT'JBTT'
AUNT YIELDS LIFE; TRIES
IN VAIN TO SAVE BABY
Boiler Explodes in Horns vt
Strafford- Two Other
Badly Burned
A young wotnoo and her furteea-taiaH-old
neehew. whom she attemated Weave
when a boiler exploded, died earfey t4ejr In
the Bryn Mawr MeajHHU. Tftey ae atta
Anna Shanahan, of Wayne, and AWekasa
Charles Comlna.
Th aeetdent eoearredjei the a Pa
Comina, Lanaseier U.Ktedtee.T Ujg
Ing oasis set fere. taaJtatfea a afg.
tared over th etotbJac h sr"s i
rooca. Ana coast, yeses
waa also seriously kerned, a4 he i)
Mr. Paul Cotala, iisimb: 'it !
hands when ah W tlai age)
nam la th etetUag of her ttr . lege
eMMrta, Mr. Oeala- W la rMwtkpp
room who the iri"Tin aeoHxreA re
hoe th ktvaaea est Msd hat
the ehUOree, sereasnkeex,. eppi
tM feat " f at a aan aDtaref
Ufca phbTb TgBvs wmm
Meitkaete wtata a WU Wnm and tta
the Mies Hi
the bias
-Wayae Fire Csawaaay
I ta a seHoua ens4lt)a
lias raff
tha kaeesfsaa
aa4 bar aaotlwr. srha ale
tbm we bfaraa abMi tbe I
a . Jm
eJ
"J1C
