THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and slightly cooler to-day, to-morrow
fair, with moderate temperature.
Highest temperature yesterday, 65; lowest, 54.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 17.
tin.
IT SHINES FOB ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 44.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1916. CopvrtgM, 1918. by fa Sun Printing and PubU.ning Aoatton.
ONE CENT
la Creator New York, Elsewhere
n7 City and Newark. ) TWt OKNTH,
ITALIANS FORGE
AHEAD IN NEW
TRIESTE DRIVE
llt-adi Austrian Second Line
on Cnrso. Southeast
of Goritz.
AIM OF OKFKXSIVK
IS TO All) MMAX1A
Mi In ii Hears ('udornu Is
Tr.vinir to Lessen Pressure
on lialkan Nation. 1
TKOOI'S FALL HACK.
VIKXXA ADMITS
Official Report Tells of
Loss of Villajre of
Xovavas. .
Homu, Oct. 13. On. Cadorna' new
drive on Trieste wag pushed forward
uft.iln thU afternoon ami the Ita'.lans
foicrd tlivir way to the Austrian sec
ond line on the (.irno plitcnu. The at
tacks are incessant in order to lessen
t'.p pressure upon Rumania, according
to Milan dispatches.
Tlie Austrian troops were driven
Kick to tin- western slope of Monte.
IVflnkn to the Mrst houses of I.oc
vi.zi and to lludi Log. the Itallin War
Office announce. Hudl Log, southeast
of ippic)ii.isell.. marks the furthest
Italian pi ogress on the t'arso. Heavy
Vftri.n loiinter macks were driven
17 tit vru-it loss, 400 Austrian dead
i .1 i irlc cl tit one point.
Vienna Admit Lou,
V' -. ;s Austilan statement' admits
th 1 if .Vovhvhs. on the Car.so. as
si.1 it. ,i letlrement in the Monte Pa
' ''tiii. The Italians have lost
s. Tin- Ji!lnrftstftcii)iitmj-
i e l'aub o legion we drove back
in bomb tt ick:i between Montt
Fu i I Monte I'orno and also on the
'.,iirn "loins of Monte Unite. Our
tt f . tV-i took strong enemy post
lti. 1-cUivctt Sette Ctocl and Monte
lid's, iii.iV.Iiik s. nie progress ttt spite
' i llll.ciiitlr of the terrain and
l n.ite leslstanee encountered.
Ue .ipt'in-d thirty-two prisoners.
' n ho Julian front there were vlo
I'" aitdlery act'ons. During the
n!i!l i of October 12-13 and yesterday
twr g -he enemy launched further
t "nuntcr nt'.ncks, especially at
F''c n-ar Goritz. south of Nova
v! U ,imi toward Hl'.l lit on the Carso.
I i w ro nil driven off with heavy
I"'' the front of one battalion
f- 'tie mar .Sober 400 enemy dead were
bjt.ctf,
Mill tuatrlana Taken.
I'j- ig the afternoon our troops
nilderable progress on the
Cirw, capturing ground between the
II - enemy line, which we already held,
and the -i-cond one. The western
l."l"'s ) Monte Peclnka and the first
hoii-.fs of Locvlzza and Hudl hog were
reached. W,- raptured (00 prisoners.
Ir. ludlng ten ottlcets.
t.1i7"' Vu,,rll" statement hhs that
Italian attacks north and south of the
region w hre Itfune reports success were
vpuh-ed. "Further south, as far as the
" an. it says, "tli- enemy repeatedly
penetrated -oiuc sections of our dtst line
le'-tic.-.. hut In each case was driven
lit (nip troops from thn Alps distln.
Kj'i'hed tliem-elves In this fighting.
North of the Wlppach (Vlpacco) all ut
ile ks fif the It.iiiaiiB were repulsed."
RUMANIANS STAND.
Hold lift- MtH.Us of Tentoaa At-
lriiiiilng Invasion.
Lnxfov, Oct n.The Kumanlan re
'tanre to Von Kalkenhayn's sweeping
iimni I. stiffening. In the natural
"'nshold. of the Transylvanlan Alps
inn th i arpathlans King Ferdlnand'a
'rt.i.,,s are making a stand to keep the.
io"' an'' Uerman" tT Humanlan
y.? ,'aIkfnhayn army now occuptei
rractlrally all of the Transylvanlan terti
ary Ilunianla recently overran, for the
numanians In the north, who held out
"nr.er than the armies around Her
"urinHadt and Kronstadt, have also re
T(l nn both sides of the upper
." th! G',rf,o Plateau and In
ink ugloii the Rumanians have
v -ti nay
" V northern front, however, and
'r border south of Kronstadt the
Ji'iMMnnt. tiave thrown back re
itM Teuton attacks. Near Crasna
iiMi.-in.iii, cavalry broke up six attacks
) leuton liifantiy. At the doorway to
IXdcnl pass, south of Kronstadt. the
'i itiMiuat lepulsed several Teuton at
, To.ila's Clcnnan statement ad
.... ln th8 nor"' tl Rumanians
; " i nfferliig stubborn resistance" at
frfiini-P to the Oylmea pass In the
i"iMthuiit,
Trnton Hootr Blar.
rot s..irr.ihle Itunianlan losses are re-'"it'-v
l.erlln and Vienna. TheGermans
' "" took one ofllcer and 170 men
foi.eri, and raptured two guns near
h.ruanadt. Th.. Au-trlnns y that In
Lift two days eighteen officers, 639
r hf,,Vy gun nve machine guns
" 'nii'li war material have been
1 .ffM ir
'r' -d-.v h Hutnanlan statement says
'hi- li-dinidja front is quiet, with
' ! r in agrees. The llulgars an-Jr.-i'
..Mpuir, in n ttatemenl dated
"inluy that ".m advanced llulgarlan
tHu.ii.rri dislodged the enemy from
- 'ioi.i ,.,d occupied the village."
Itmri.iliin statement says that
"e ir. artillery duels and Infantry
' ' .in nng tt, Uanube. Ilerlln,
'"in in I Sulla my nothing of un In-
r.i of Itiiui.irila across the Panubo,
-iili on Mackcnsen established a
CoxtlHkfd on Third eat.
GREEK PLOT TO FIGHT
ALLIES UNEARTHED
Kintr Was to Join UeniiuiiH
With Army, Kntcnte Lpmi'ihmI j
nml Sont'ritiinnttim.
I-flSTlM!..' tin 1i . 0fl.r.1.. I
lug to Athens despatches the Entente
I allies sent their ultimatum to Greece
liecause they hud unearthed tt royalist
I plot to light the Entente
1 It ni planned, the derpritches mid.
that If the Allies should seek to coerce
Oreece Into Joining tre war mid try to
force Ellptherlos Venlzelos upon King
Constuntlnc the King should retire
northward along the railway, taking the
troops with him. and concentrate at
Trlkala. In Thtssaly, and lie Intrenched
there Until the arrival of the German
army, when he would strike In unison
with them nt the Allies. I
GREEK KING IS WON
OVER BY ENTENTE
I Constantino Tells Crown
Council Nation's Future
Calls for Entry in War.
Atiiknh. Oct. 10 (Tuesday), via Lon
don. O-t. 13. King t-nnstuntlne motored
In from Tatols, his summer residence,
this evening and presided at a meeting
of tho Crown Council, to which he pre.
sented the report of I'rlnce Andrew, h'.s
brother, who hns Just returned from a
visit to the Kntente capitals.
The King dlscussril the form which
Oreece's proposals to the Kntente with
a view of abandoning neutrality should
I take, and declared his conviction that
Greece's future depended upon her Join
I lng the Kntente. He expressed a read I
, ness to do so, demanding only a guar-
antee of the Integrity of tirecu- and such
material nudstancc In rqulpplng the
army as would be essential to render
tlreece's participation In the war of real
1 value to the Allies.
j The Cabinet members preem at the
j council fully appiored of King Con
stantlne's course.
Discussing a telegram from M. Ito
manos, the Greek Minister to France, on
S'n'ember 3, r-poitlm: a conversation
with Premier Ilrland, King Constantlne
pointed out that the throe compensation
which the French Premier offered In
formally did not include a gunautee of
Integrity, -ind he expressed 'he opinion
that Oreece's entry Into hos-llltle-f was
Impossible without an ottlclal pledge to
this effect from the Governments of
j Great Ilrltnln. Fran.e. Italy and ItussU.
1 The monarch stated further that he
was not disposed at this time to Insist
even upon discussing Greece's territorial
aspirations, to which Premier lirland re
, fened. but he felt that a war Cabinet,
t when formed, should have a chnrncter to
inspire tho conndence of a -;rcat majority
of th country, without which any full
mobilization would be Impossible.
The King asserted that In view of the
probability that the Kntcnte Govern
ments would reply shortly tn Gieece's
1 first tentative piopcsals, he did riot con
sider it necessary for the new Govern
ment to take any tteps before the receipt
of a reply.
"RUMANIA DOOMED."
Conalantlne la (inolrd na Stolnar
He Won't lllak Same Fate.
IoNooN, Oct. 1 1. "When a high diplo
matic personage besought King Con
stantlne to change his policy," says the
)(( Teleorapi'' Athens correspondent,
"the King replied:
" 'I prefer to loc my throne rather
than endanger Greece. I nm convinced
that In two weeks Rumania will no
longer exist, If Greece went Into the
war then, after the conquest of Ru
mania, the Irresistible German forces
would be directed agnlnst Green- and
she would share the fate of Serbia and
Rumania,' "
YIELD MORE TO ALLIES.
Greek Give I'p Poller Control nml
Wheat Knibamo.
LONDON, Oct, 13. "Admiral Du Four- 1
net, commander of the Anglo-French
fleet," says a Renter despatch from
Athens, "yesterday addressed a note to I
the Greek Government demanding on .
behalf of the Allies the control of the
Greek police, the prohibition of Greek I
citizens from carrying arms, the stop
page of sending war munitions to Thes.
saly and the lifting of thn embargo on
tho transportation of Thessallati wheat.
"The Greek Cabinet sat with the chief
of the General Staff un'.II midnight ills-
cussing the note, The council was re-1
sumcd In the morning, when all the de-'
mands of Admiral Du Fournet were ac
cepted. "The British Minister here has visited
M. Zalocostas, the new Greek Foreign
Minister, whereby the Kntente recog
nizes the new Cabinet."
USE OF POTATO BREAD URGED.
I', '. Bulletin Offers Three ttrclpes
for .Nutritions l.oaf.
Waikikotok, Oct. 13, More general
use of potatoes In making bread Is
recommended by the baking specialists
of the Department of Agriculture. Hread
containing boiled earn! mashed potatoes
was found by experiments to be as nu
tritious as ordinary bread and to re
main fresh longer.
Potato bread In Europe usually is
made with potato flour, which Is not
available In the United States. Tho
Government experts halted excellent
bread with three pounds of potato and
two and one-half pounds of flour. Three
recipes have been formulated.
GERMANY NEEDS POTATOES.
Crop Shortage Admitted h Von Hn
torkl, Food Director.
Aubtkuiiam, via bunion, Oct. 13,
, President von Hatockl of the food ri-gu-'
latlon board admitted In tho Reichstag
that the potato harvest had been disap
pointing, according to the Kalnttche
Volkt Xi'Uung. stating that the shortage
was due to a lack of seed potatoes.
President von llatocld announced that
the authorities were taking counsel on
steps deemed necessary, and In the
mesntlme all trade In seed potatoes
would be forbidden.
Wntrh Oat for the Ills IIIimt.
Washington, Oct, 13. Southwest to
west galea In north Atlantic and strong
west winds in middle Atlantic States
will prevail to-morrow, the Weather Ilu
reau predicted to-day, Storm warnings
were Issued for th entlra coast north of
Cap HatUraa.
U-53 SIGHTED NEAR
SCENE OF EXPLOITS
WJilte Star Freighter llovlc
Reports Submarine Eighty
Miles Off Xnntucket.
FKAlt F()l SHIPS (IROWS
F. S. Destroyer Fleet Patrols
Coast as Many Allied
Vessels Sail.
Capt. Hans Rose of the t'-53, unper
turbed by the fact that the entire naval
force of the Allies In this part of the
world l looking for him. has scarcely
moveil from the scene of his exploits of
last Sunday, whpn he destroyed six mer
chantmen off Nantucket lightship.
With the wide ocean to choose for a
hiding pla e. the commander of the Ger
man war submarine was spoken on
Tuesday, uo miles east of Nantucket
lightship, ntid was seen yesterday about
eighty miles southeast of the same
lieurnn. The West Point was torpedoed
fifty miles em of the llRhtshlp on Sun
day. Therefore, while It Is no', literally
true that the rtlder has not moved since
Sunday, it Is evident that Capt. Rose Is
making no attempt at lllclit.
This news brought no peace of mind
to shipping men In New York. Since the
submarine still Is In the steamship lanes
It Is taken for granted the raider still
means business. Washington took ac
tion esterday by Increasing the neu
trality patrol of the Atlantic coast and
by sending out destro.vers to Investigate
persistent rumors that there was a se
cret base for the German raiders some
where on the coast, probably In Maine.
Inirslluntlnic Tint Story.
Another story now being Investigated
Is a tale willed originated in New York,
apparently sponsored by a man of con
siderable standing, who asserted that
the owners of a tanker had for $100,000
taken the risk of clearing from this port
with supplies, ostensibly for a neutral
nation but In-reallty for the l'-53.
It was the llovlc, u freighter of the
White Star line, which sighted the sub
marine yesterday and wirelessed her tld
;'gs to llnston. The brief bulletin
spread consternation In the shipping
world, Just reassured by the report of
the Russian steamship Hesperus that the
sky line at sea was smudged with the
smoke of many Hrltlsh cruisers and de
stroyers, obviously on the hunt for the
I'.boat. This good news from the Hes
perus good from the standpoint of Hrlt
lsh steamship owners arrived In Roston
n few hours ahead of the wireless re
port from the llovlc.
The embargo on munition laden ships
bound for Kurope had been raised Just
long enough for them to get out Into the
danger zone. Detaed by orders of their
owners, who apparently were thus ad
vised by Hrltlsh authorities, the ships of
the belligerent nations sailed In n bunch
from many ports. If Capt, Rose still has
torpedoes and shilts It Is suimlsed he
will have wonderful opportunities for
their use.
Nsir Censor Rnay.
The llovlc, bound from .Manchester to
New- York, reported the submarine In
latitude 10.17 north, longitude CD. 13 west,
at o'clock yesterday morning. This io.
sltlon Is about 00 miles due east of New
York, computing roughly, and eighty
nilliv- or so southeast of Nantucket.
What more tho llovlc reported fell under
the ban of the Navy Department's cen
sorship of the wireless, A long series of
code messages passed between Washing
ton nnd naval points all along the north
Atlantic coast.
Apparently the censorship does not
work equally well in all ports. Boston
despatches gave the name of the llovlc
and said she had sighted an unidentified
submarine. Despatches from Newport
quoted a naval officer as saying that a
steamship had sighted a German nub
marine. Neither despatch Indicated the
submersible' courso at the time It was
sighted. ,
So n uch for the wherealmuts of the
I-53 or Its double .vesterday. It was
In the same locality Tuesday. A neutral
vessel which docked In New York yes
lei day reported that on Tuesday It spoke
a submarine more than 100 miles east
of Nantucket lightship by wireless. The
steamship was asked Its name and na
tionality. It gave the Information and
asked the same question of the I'-boat,
"German submarine from Newport,
Good-by," was the answer given as the
raider continued on its course eastward.
.Sprclllc orders of the Government
under which this neutral vessel is regis
tered are given as the reason why the
name of the vessel cannot be divulged
by the authorities who are responsible
for the news.
Daniels Explains.
Secretary Daniels made it plain In
Washington last night that Admiral
Mayo, commander of the Atlantic fleet,
was acting on his own responsibility
In making a seaich of the coast from
Newport to the Canadian line to Investi
gate reports of hidden subrrnrlne bases
or wireless stations, The Secretary said
that general orders Issued to fleet com
manders to safeguard neutrality in every
way covered the case.
Virtually tho entire destroyer flotilla
of the Meet Is on neutrality duty. The
destroyer Paulding, sent out from New
port, senrc-hed the coast between liar
Harbor and Rockland, Me yesterday,
exploring every cove and rocky Islet,
When the Paulding put Into Rockland
last night those of her men who got
shore leave were ordered to report ready
for sailing at 7 o'clock this morning.
The McDougal. Fanning and Warring
ton are on the same Job. They worked
further to the north, close to thn Cana
dian line-, and put up for the night at
Kastport,
other destroyers kept to wea on patrol
dut.v, and their vvlteless messages to
various naval bases last night reported
that the long, low lying, narrow craft
were having h most unpleasant time In
the heavy southwest galo and tremen
dous seas.
F. N, Submarine Seen.
Meanwhile, Washington was iblng its
bit of neutrality investigating. Secre
tary Lansing continued to collect reports
of the torpedoing of the six vessels on
Sunday fiom the various naval com
manders who helped rescue the crews
and passengers. He declined to com
ment on them In advance of seeing the
sworn statements which are to follow.
There aro not lacking Indications, how.
ever, that some of this evidence will
show Capt, Rose was none too finicky in
Ida solicitude for tho Uvea of neutrals,
CauMMifct en Bteond Pag.
FRENCH W AR ORPHANS FIND
MIDAS GODFATHER IN U. 5.
$130,000,000 Fund Started to Care for Fatherless
Children During Next Fifteen Years as Token of
Americans' Gratitude for Aid in Revolution.
Children of France made fatherless
and destitute by the war will be looked
after by America until tlicy ure old
enough to support themselves.
For thla purpose the American So
ciety for the Relief of French War
Orphans was Incorisointed yesterday
by n group of well known men, many
of whom are New York bankers. The
society expects to raise In the course
of fifteen .vears about 130,00O,000, This
Is the largest war relief philanthropy
ever undertaken. It will have a nation
wide membership, and n committee of
seven directors who have homes In Paris
will supervise the distribution of the
fund thern In cooperation with French
societies.
According to the announcement made
public jrstcrday, the object of the so
ciety Is to "express In a practical way
the gratitude that Americans have al
ways felt for the aid given to this coun
try by France during the Revolution,
and their sympathy for the French peo
ple In their present affliction." It is
purely a relief organization, non-polltl-cal.
Itg present otllces aro at 44 Wall
street.
The active officers are; President.
William D. Guthrie! vice-presidents,
James Stlllman, J. Plerpont Morgan nnd
Ambrose Monell ; treasurer, Thomas
Cochran: secretary, Snowdcn A. Fahne
stock: general manager, Cldc A. Pratt,
who Is executive secretary of the War
Relief Clearing House.
Cardinal Vice-President.
The honorary vice-presidents are Kd
ward Douglass White, Chief Justice of
the United States Supreme Court ; Cardi
nal Farley, lllshop David H. Greer. Rob
ert Racon, ex-Amb.ijndor to France :
President John Grler Hlbben of Prince
ton University, President Nicholas Mur
ray Hutler of Columbia University, and
Dr. John II. Flnley, Kducation Commis
sioner of New York State.
These ore the thirty-four directors:
George K. Baker. Jr., Cornelius N.
Hllss, Jr., James M. Heck. S. Reading
llertron, James Hyrne. Thomas U Chad
bourne, Jr., Thomas Cochran, R. Fulton
Cutting. Charles Stewart Davison. Ku
gene Delano, Daniel Guggenheim, Will
iam D. Guthrie, Alexander J. Hemphill.
Adrian Iselln. George Grant Miuun,
Charles T. Mathews, Ambrose Monell,
Victor Morawetz. Dwlght W. Morrow,
J. P. Morgan, Otis A. Mygatt, Seward
Prosser, Percy A. Rockefeller, Sylvanus
I Sclioonmaker, John W. Simpson,
Charles Steele, James Stlllman, Dr.
Lewis A. Stlmson, Wlllard D. Straight.
Henry M. Tllford. Edward Tuck. Frank
A. Vanderllp, George W. Wlckersham
and Albert II. Wlggln. Six other direc
tor are to b addad.
The distinguishing feature of the so
ciety Is that Its operations are to extend
long beyond the war until the French
children It Is designed to help can lie
reared and educnted. The term fixed in
the articles of Incorporation Is fifteen
ears. In another Important particular
this society will differ from some others,
for alt administration, collection and dis
tribution expenses will le met by con-
HIS WILL PROVIDES
FOR DEATH BANQUET
Philip Goldman's Last Testa
ment Sets Aside .S2."i0 for a
Cheerful Evening.
Philip Goldman hated all the signs
and symbol of mourning. Hut h
would like .hi friends to remember him,
so in his will, filed yesterday, a clauso
reads :
"I desire that 1230 be exjicnded In
some fitting occasion at some time after
my burial, at which shall be gathered
my relatives and friends, such as a
dinner or banquet, arl my wish is they
should spend a cheerful evening In their
recollection of me. As I do not regard
mourning as desirable or sensible, my
desire Is that nil signs and symbols of
mourning be dispensed with "
Goldman, a cap manufacturer, left an
estate valued at mure than tlun.OOO.
To all emplojei-s who had served him
five years lie left J.'O each, to those who
had been with him ten years tlOli each
and to those who had been with him
fifteen year or more J I CO each. Charles
Schoenfeld, a bookkeeper, who had been
in Goldman's employ twenty-five years,
received $2,000.
SLEEP IN BATH MAY BE FATAL.
Cottnn Broker Takes Three Hoar
Nap la ISertonsly III,
Pi.AiNfizt.n. N. .1., Oct. 13. Falling
asleep In n bathtub after a hard game
of golf, may have f ilnl results for Sam
uel H. Thompson, n New York cotton
broker, of Maitlne avenue, Fnnwood, Ho
spent last Sunday on the links of the
Westfleld Golf Club, returning home
thoroughly tlrid.
After filling the tub with hot water he
Jumped In and fell fast asleep. He awoke
about three hours later. The water In
the meantime had heroine cold. Thor
oughly chilled, Mr. Thompson became
seriously III and his condition is said to
be critical.
WOMAN LIEUT. IN GERMAN NAVY
She' Second In Command of Giiii
hont on Lake t'nnatnnrr,
iprcial CaMt )f)wfc Co Tnr. Sis.
Gknkva, via Paris, Oct, 13,- -A woman
lias been commissioned by the Govern
ment of Wurttemberg as second in com
mand of a small gunlmat on Lake Con
stance which Is employed In guard duty
at Frledrlrhshofen, where the Zeppelin
works are located. She has tho ranlc
and uniform of i lieutenant.
Women emploei cm South German
railways, according to n new order, must
wear uniforms, consisting In purt of
loosu trousers and gaiters,
West Point (luiirautlnp Modified.
Wr.sr Point. Oct, 13. Quarantine
regulations against infantile paralysis
in force on the military reservation hero
since July 31 will bo lifted at reveille
to-morrow to adult persons, soldiers and
residents of the post. Children under 16
year, however, will be barred Indtfl-nlUly.
I t'llillt Irmti tit. cii lf ( mamViarn tnr flint
1uijom 50 every dollar given by the
P bile will go directly to relief.
To avoid delay an underwriting fund
guaranteeing these expenses for the first
two years has been created. It already
amounts to tl!3,r.0O, subscribed by
George F. Itaker, James M. Reck, C. N,
Illlss, Jr., James Hyrne, Thomas L. Chad
bourne, Jr., William 11. Child, Thomas
Cochran, R. Fulton Cutting. Charles
Stew ait Davison, Joseph P. Grace, the
Guggenheim brothers, William D.
Guthrie, Alexander J. Hemphill, Francis
1.. I
Otto II. Kahti, George Grant
MHSon,' Charles T. Mathews. Ambrose
.Monell, Victor Morawetz, J. P. Morgan
& Co., Otis A. Mgatt. James C. Parrlsh,
Seward Prosser, Percy A. Rockefeller.
Clunk's Rowland Russell, Arnold L.
Schcucr, Sylvanus L. Sclioonmaker.
Charles Steele, James Stlllman, Wlllard
D. Straight. Frank A. Vanderllp and
George W. Wlckersham.
"There will be no effort made." the
announcement says, "to bring French
orphans to this country or to create new
nirenrles for their care In France. The
membership of the society will be divided
Into three classes founders, who will
pav 1500 a year or more; benefactors,
who will contribute $250 n year, and
sustaining memfjers, who will contribute
1100 a year. Contributions in any
amount which the donors see fit to give
will be solicited from the general public.
"Reports In hand show that there are
already In France more than 200,000
children w-ho arc the Innocent victim
of war and In need of help. The State
allowance for destitute children Is In
most Instances Insufficient for their
proper maintenance. The dally burden
of direct war expenses borne by the
French Government Is stupendous and
wilt long preclude the possibility of ade
quale old to war orphans and the fami
lies of dead and Incapacitated soldiers.
Americans must help If great destitu
tion and suffering are to bo relieved."
Photngrnpha to Aid Work.
In distributing the money the society
will at the outset cooperate wrlth the
Association Nationals Francalse pour
, , .,,.
la Protection des pm'"" X'r
pour la P.; trie. Later the aid f?1""
approved lrench "wnjwtlon. w 111 be
CllliBll'l. niiiii."". ..... .
the committee directing the administra
tion of the fund In Paris. Three of tho
seven already selected are james aim-
man. Edward Tuck and Otis Mygatt.
It will be Impossible to bring any of
1 the French children to thla country, as
France will need them. Rut subscribers
who desire specific Information as to the
1 use of their money will get It. Arrange
ments will be made to have photograph
1 and life histories of the children on file
l here, and oorretpondenc between thm
nnrf heT American friend will b Per-
I mltted. The society h alreaditxaeiyc4.tmiL.Amerlcan at large, and he be
2.000 photographs, with notes of what
has happened to the youngster since
daddy went to war.
The directors of the society had a
meeting and luncheon In the rooms of
vA TiAunlflu.n Asnclfltlnn CiO fine
street, jesterday. The executive cox-
mlltee will meet at 1 P M. Monday to,
plan for forming branches In all the
States.
TWELVE 16 IN. RIFLES
ON NEW U. S. SHIPS
Displacement of 38,000 Tons
Needed to Carry World's
Heaviest Battery.
Washington. Oct. 13. Navy officials I
ant clpnte that American battleships
authorized next year will be built to
carry main batteries of twelve 16 Inch
rifles, as against the eight 16 Inch guns
, . . . , . , . , . , , .
to be put on the ships for which bids
will be opened October 23
To carry twelve 16 Inch rifles It has
been roughly estimated that the shins
would require a displacement of prob
ably 3K,0no tons, as against the 32,000
tonnage of tho four ships to be laid
down next year.
The General Hoard favored four 36.
Ooii ton v. ssels, carrying ten 16 Inch
guns each, for the coming year. The
decision to make them 32.000 ton ships
with eight guns each, It Is said, came of
the desire to hasten construction by re
ptoduclng ships of the California and
Tennessee type, now building at the New
York and Mare Island navy yards, with
only such niodlllcattons a were neces
sary to arm them with 16 Inch Instead of I terday at the remarks attributed to Sen
14 Inch rifle. i ntor Stone by Mr. Abeles was Otto Van
BOY'S BODY ON CAR TRACKS.
Killing of B-Vear-Old Child Passlrs
The Bronx Police,
The body of it five.year-old boy,
Adolph Silverman of 751 East USth
street, was brciugh; Into n drug store at
5.13 Westchester nvenue last night by a
thirteen. year-old boy, who said that he
had found the child's body on the car
tracks at Westchester and St. Ann's
iivcutie, The Ilronx,
An ambulance surgeon from the Leb
anon Hospital found that the boy's head
had been crushed, apparently by some
vehicle, The boy who brought the body
to tho store disappeared ond the pollen
and District Attorney's ofllce were un
able to II tut him. Coroner Flynn sent
the body to the morgue for autopsy,
WAR RISK RATES DROP.
Premium Cat In Half Since C-Rnat
Dropped From Sight.
War risk Insurance rales dropped
sharply yesterday, In some Instances to
50 per cent, of Monday's figures. The
drop was due to a dawning belief that
the l'-boals have headed cost and do
not plan fuithei nctlvltlvs ,,t I bin time.
Some brokers quoted rates of from 2
to 2'j per cent, for transatlantic risks.
On Monday 5 per cent, was the usualldnv from scvernl sources that the Ad-
rate Hates to South American and
Hiitlsh West Indian ports were ubout 1
per cent.
Still Dlacnaalng Mexican Plan.
ATLANTIC CITT, N, J Oct, 13, The
Mexican-American Joint commission
continued to-day the consideration of
different plan for the protection of life
and property ulong the Mexican border,
but without reaching un agreement. A
brief session will tw held to-morrow,
when the conference will be adjourned
until Monday,
WILSON'S OPEN BID
FOR GERMAN VOTE
Senator Keller of Illinois Com
ing To-dny to Plead
In East.
1 STONE TALK DENIED NOW
Terrace Garden Diners Offer
New Version Lusitnnia
Meeting Delay.
President Wilson's bid for tho German
vote In this State. It wait learned last
night, will bo made through Senator Kent
F.. Keller of Illinois, who, talking as a
German to Germans, Is expected to con
vince them that the President Is their good
friend.
Keller Is tho Democratic member of
the Illinois Legislature cited by Norman
Hapgood a hla authority for the charge
that a secret pact existed between the
Hughes managers and the German
American Alliance. He will arrive hero
from tho West to-morrow and will be on
the stump for Wilson for the rest of the
campaign.
The coming of the rresldcn'.'B German
champion was announced by Hapgood
who, as acting chairman of tho Woodrow
Wilson Independent League, nan planned
Senator Keller's (peaking tour It: the
Hast.
llopefnl of Keller's Trip.
Hapgood spoke enhuslastlcally of the
Influence the Illinois man wan certain to
have with Germans In this and other
Eastern States. He said :
"Senator Keller's German parentag
and education and hla remarkably fin
record ln the Illinois Legislature give
him a great deal of Influence with Gcr
man American citizens.
"He explains to them simply the ad
vantage! of their thinking as Individual!
and not allowing themselves to be voted
In a herd. He calls their attention to
the fact that If the President had not
been so cool and so wise this country
migiu wen nave neen ai war wiin wer-
) '"" "
' Hughes, even though he does, owe his
h Am(rMn A,.
might well have been at war with Ger
ance. has as his strongest upporter Col.
Roosevelt, and that Col. Roosevelt. If he
Is not Secretary of State Idmself, will In
evitably have a great deal to do with the
Wires of that office.
Veiled "tap at the Rlddera.
"Senator Keller believe that the Ger
man of American descent In thl con
splcuoti group that Is cooperating with
Republican headquarters, and Is taking
such a vindictive attitude toward the
President, by no means represent Ger-
IleveH that the longer Mr. Huehe.s shows
himself afraid to aav anything about
what his policy will he If he Is elected
the more German Americans he will
Ioe, especially as In the. meantime Col.
Roosevelt Is allowing no misunderstand-
'"cahoot where hi sympathies lie,
'The Injury to the country of a
palgn against our President, based on
racUl grounds, will be much emphasised
by Senator Keller. He will take up Mr.
Hughes's statement of yesterday defend
ing himself for mentioning the Hrltlsh
blockade, but not saying anvthlng def
Inlte about It. on the ground that hi cin
not be definite a he may some time be
President.
"Senator Keller will point out that It
Is a most unpatriotic thing for him to
avoid all responsibility and yet try to
mess up our foreign relations. The key.
note of his speeches will be as the Presi
dent said jesterday: 'Put up or shut
up." "
Dens- Now atone5 Made Speech.
Several Germans denied yesterday
lhat Senator Stone nt the Tcrrare Gar-
for wUQn mad I1(.nry'A1).
les gave out a the one delivered on that
occasion. They asserted FViutor Stone
I ,nirtc .',0 ucli speech to them. It was
said Senator Stone was to have made
,,forP h(. Arlon nut, (p,fon k
lime made public; but that the directors
had deemed It inadvisable. In certain
quarters It was suggested that the
prepared speech given to the newspapers
as the Terrace Garden address might
havo been confused with the one the
Senator was going to make before the
Arlon Club but didn't,
Evidence yesterday tended to show
that Senator Stone had tried to reach
ns many Germans as ho could on
Ids visit here and that. In spite of
his denials, some of those whom he met
got the Impression that he came from
the President,
One of the Terra Garden dinner
guests who professed to be surprised yes
Schrenk or i'3 liroad street.
"Senator Stone," said Mr. Van
Schrenk, "made no such speech ns was
given out, and I marvelled when I read
It to think what an excellent memory
some one must have had to put in such
excellent form his remarkH. The Sen
ator was frequently Interrupted by ques
tions, and he answered all of them very
painstakingly.
Taken aa Wilson Kmlaaary.
"My Impression was that he was an
emissary of the Democratic Administra
tion and lie sought to hear what our
grievances were concerning the Presl
dent's utterances and what could he done
to appease our injured feelings. We told
him very plainly how we felt and I was
favorably Impressed with some of the
things he said."
Joseph M. Kolilmelcr, u hardware
dealer or 202 East Sixtieth street and
an olllcer of several German societies,
said :
"Senator Stone did not give any such
speech as was given out. but talked
right across the table to us. I don't
think lhat his talk will change one vote.
We talked over the attitude of the
President, but although Senator Stone
was a good defender of Mr. Wilson ho
did not convince us. It seetneil to me.
that he realized this and left n disap
pointed man."
Delay of I,nltnnln Meeting,
Intimation came to Tim St'N yc-ster-
ministration had a hand in the postpone.
tnent of the Lusltnnla memorial ment.
lng last May, for much the samu rea
cm that It Is said to huvo tried to pre
vent the New York preparedness parade,
so that no offence might bo given to
Germans,
Member of the American Rights
League, which planned the Lusttanla
meeting, also disclosed for tho first
time the real reasons advanced by
Mayor Mltchel for the postponement.
It was aald that the Mayor told Qeorga
Continued on Second Page.
X-RAY BURN TO COST
PHYSICIAN A FINGER
Cnnecrous Growth Follows Ex
posure of Member by Dr.
Satterlco in His Work.
Dr. Francis Lcroy Satterlee, a first
cousin of Herbert L. Satterlee, wilt un
dergo probably on Tuesday next the
amputation of his right little finger at
the knuckle In tho hope thereby of stop
plug a cancerous growth superinduced
by frequent exposure to the X-ray dur
ing his work as radiologist nt Flushing
and Greenpolnt hospitals.
Dr. Satterlee was one of tho X-ray
pioneers, starting his studies back In
1S97 when practitioner were not aware
of tho gravo consequences of burning
their hands and finger. Keratosis de
veloped In the finger several year later
and what looked like warts appeared.
Tncn tho first Joint was removed nnd
later the second Joint waa cut off, leav
ing tue stump of the finger.
The physician consulted recently Dr.
Robert Abbe, senior surgeon at St.
Luke's Hospital. Manhattan, and both
agreed that a third operation was Im
perative. It Is said that If It shall be determined
after tho proposed operation that tho
hand still contains evidence of cancer It
wilt be necessary to amputate that mem
ber. Dr. Satterlee Is 40 years old. He Is a
graduate of Columbia and of St. John's
College at Annapolis. He lives with his
wife and two children at SIC Percy
street, Hushing.
STRIKE ENDS, MILK
FOR ALL MONDAY
Big New York Firms, Except
Ilordens, Meet Farmers'
Demands.
An agreement was reached at 1 :30
o'clock this morning between the milk
producers, as itpresented by Cotnmls.
slonrr Dillon and the Dairymen's
League, and the great distributing (Inns
of New- York which, both parties to the
treaty said, absolutely assures the city
of Its complete normal supply of milk
Monday morning and thereafter.
Horden's company alone was not rep
resented among the gathering of the
heads of the big distributers, but It is
said the concern will come In as a mat
ter of course, having mndn practically
the same offer to the producers Inde
pendently, The agreement Is that the distributer
shall pay 45 cents per hundredweight nil
vance for October. November and De
cember, and that the price for January,
February and March shall be left to a
committee of five arbitrator, whose de
cision shall be final.
I.oton Horton, president of the Shef
field Farms-SInwsoii-Decker Company,
said that it was a. satisfactory arrange,
ment, but that It was simply n "gentle
men's agreement," nnd that he for one
would sign no papers. Other milk dis
tributers said the same thing. John .1.
Dillon, the Commissioner of Foods and
Markets, made no definite rt.itement us
to whether contracts would lie signed In
b'.nck and white. What he said wtm
"tho law) crs still arc busy with tho de
tails." The conference, which continued for
many hours, was held In the Sherman
Square Hotel. Nineteen milk distribut
ing linns were represented. Chief among
them were the Shclllcld concern, the
Mutual-McDcrmott, It. F. Stevens. Alex
ander Campbell, Locust Farm", lle.ikes
Dairy Company, Hrown & llalley. llor
t on's Ice Cream Company, the orange
County Milk Association, tit- Held Ice
Cream Company nnd T. O. Smith i Son.
Dillon was flanked by the entire mem
bership of the executive committee of
tin- Dairymen's league. All differ
ences In the league appear to have been
settled, at least for the purxes of end
ing the strike. Smaller milk distributers,
who In the aggregate are said to handle
JO per cent, of the city's milk, settled
with the league some days ago and their
action Is believed to have been a power
ful weapon In the prnduceis' hands.
A total of lO.sDO.oon quarts of milk
has been lost to the consumer of New
York during the last eleven days by
reason of the trouble between farmers
nnd distributers, according to reports
received by Lucius P. Hrown, dln-'tor
of tho foods and drugs bureau of thn
Department of Health. This represents
an average dally shortage of nearly
1,000,000 quarts.
The city receives each day a supply
that varies from 2,400,000 to 2.300,000
quarts of milk, cream, condensed milk,
Ac, and the shortage Is figured on a
basis of 2,1100,000 quarts of loose and
bottled milk.
The strike started on Sunday, October
1. and after thirteen days of drought Is
ended.
BARNEY GARLAND WINS BRIDE.
Waldorr-Astoria Elevator Pilot
I. oat III Heart at n Clirlaienlng.
Not to know Harney Garland almost
argues one's self unknow n For seventeen
years lie has been the pilot of one of the
most popular elevators In the Waldorf
Astoria Hotel and captains of Industry,
buccaneers of finance, statesmen, mer
chant princes i.nd even wine agents nl
was say; "Hello, Harney" Just like
that.
And for seventeen years rubbing el
bows with the great and acting oh god
father to his friends' children contented
him. Hut at one of these christening
pirtles n few weeks ago he met Miss
Anna Fltzslmnions, One word led to
another, as words will when tinged
with a brogue. So they were married
Wednesday at Holy Trinity Church, in
West Eighty-second street.
BOY STRIKER SOUGHT SUICIDE.
Motlier'a Pirn for Money Led Hint
to Shoot lllmarlf.
TAesAtc;, N. J., Oct, 13 Andrew l.u
kas, III, of 43 Second street, who went
Into the woods at Walllngtnn und shot
himself through the lung witn a revolver
jesterday after Ids mother had reminded
him that she needed his financial aid, It
still In a critical condition In St, Mary'a
Hospital,
Luk.is has been a messenger In a clo k
factory which was closed two weeks ago
by a strike and his mother suggested
yesterday that ha get another position.
He then left tho hou.so and attempted
suicide.
Illahop lirrrr'a Condition lletler.
lllshop David H Greer, Episcopal
bishop of New York, who returned home
from the Wast III of neuritis, waa rest
ing comfortably yesterday, and It was
said he wyi be out In a few day.
200 ARMED MEN
CURB BAYONNE
RIOTING; 9 HELD
i
Vote to Be Taken To-day on
Leaders' Proposal to
Return to Work.
QUIETEST DAY IN
NEARLY A "WEEK
Recorder Cain Takes Drat
tic Action to Stamp Ouf
Lawlessness.
FIVE TLANTS CLOSED
NOW TO 10,000 HANDS
Home of General Manager
C. H.Gifford Is Guarded
by Policemen.
Industrial war In Haynnno last night
appeared to have been brought to aa
end. Tho pollen appeared to have won
at the. closo of tho quietest day since
the Standard Oil strike got fairly
under way.
Leaders of the strikers planned to
call a meeting of nil their followers to
day, when a vote will be taken on
proposal to go back to work nt the old
scale of wages. Every Indication Is
that tho men realize they aro beaten,
that tho pollen nre In a position to
prevent further violence and thut tho
oil refinery can set nlong without them
Indefinitely, while they cannot get
along without wnges.
The still cleaners met last night and
j voted to go back to work. When this
I news was conveyed to deorgo A. Hcn
j neiisy, superintendent, he said the Jobs
ui an me sinner ure awaiting mem ni
tho old wages, but that the still cleunem
cannot go back until all tho men return.
Prediction now ure that tho Standard
OH fdatit will bo operating again by
Monday.
Police Control Situation,
TI.ero were no serious riots yesterday.
I noliody was killed or injured and only
nine urrestx wore made. The police had
tho situation well In hand. There was
one murder to lie Investigated on tho
outskirts of the town, but the pollen felt
no certainty that It had anything to do
with the strike.
Mr. Hcnncssy said yeserday that th
i. plant would reopejn soon. He added that
he had "absolute faith In the authori
ties." As a precautionary measure, however,
the company notified Its office employ
ees that they need not report for duty
for another week and advised them
that their pay chicks would be sent to
. their homes. It reported the Ilayonne
t plant Is now ubout four months ahead
In Its orders.
t City Officials Sep Pence.
' Henry Wilson, Cmnml'-sloner of Pub
lic Safety, declared the police had the
situation so well In hand that he be
'lleved any Ilayonne vv rkmin i - it go
to Ids shop or factory to-mori aw with
out fear of Interference, Chl f of Po
lice Michael Ilellly summed up his opln-
Ion of existing conditions, from th
, standpoint of the authorities, In the
. -Ingle word, "Fine."
1 Tin- police bcll-ve the demonstration
tiny made In the sink nine ThsV
day afternoon, when 2i"i uniformed men
inarched through tin "ilrldltnn" district
and llri'd their guns when the slightest
resistance was nnde to their command
to clear th" strcits, was in large part
responclble for thn peaceful situation
ycst'tilay.
I Yesterday morning the same fore
spent two limns In the d. strict, on a
search for flicarins nnd for saloons
which might bo op.-n In dell nice of the
order of the cty ntliclats There were
a few sporadic .-;i-.- of stuping but
the blueco.its encountered no organized
opposition. .N'nt even at the "dead line"
between Constable Honk and the main
business district vv.is the progress of
the police barred and every man who
whs ordered off th stnefs quickly
ohejed.
Fifteen Prisoners Arrnlgned.
Recorder William Cain struck further
terror Into the he.nts of offenders when
fifteen men who h.nl been nrrcstc-d
Thursday were arraigned before him
In the iifteinii'in. .1, lines iMuirherti.
I representing sevet.it of tp,. prisoner.
I argued that men vvli.i displajed their
tlrearms could not lie prosecuted on u
cnargo of carrying concealed weapons.
"If jou think that in such times as
this I will permit nnj quibbling In an
effort to In lng about ,i man's freedom
jjoii ate mistaken," s.inl Itecmder C.iln.
Nino men accused of ciurylng con
cealed weapons weie held without bull
for the grand Jury. Among tin- q wa
Jolin Mydosli, whoso saloon - beneath
the strikers' headquarters, w t !i the po
lice say, has been ned as an ammuni
tion distributing ihpot.
Five other saloon keepers accused of
keeping their places open also were held
III $500 blinds each. Mihish's 16 year
old son, Stanley, wn. held In 13,000 ball,
which the cciuit evldei tl Intended to be
prohibitive. Young M)dieh Is accused
of felonious assault with intent to kill
as well ns Inciting to lint
The police believe a bullet from his re
volver wounded one nf ihe fom police
men hint In Tuesday night's, rioting.
Milpers Fire nt Police Twlre,
The police Hi cl fewer than a score of
..lints in their march thtough. th
llnoli yesterday moitilng. They were
find ilP'in h sulpeis twice A hulM,
believed to have i nine from ,i window at
30 Mechanic stieet, grazed Ihe leg of
Patrolman I '.it tick Imwllng, Police
Surgeon Cotiiicllv gave tb-t aid tn tho
Injutcd and Iiowllug cuntlrued nn duty
The police made cine at ten in the house,
bunking Charles Chicatg on a charge of
Inciting to riot,
Several shots wvih fired also from the
vicinity of 225 Prospect avenue. In a
