Sormonig papp puppiess. th
tw newo for the diu tim fo
thknking and aincudne- Itd -
h .s the day. s sto. ns fora t . he
th*h N O. iui9 . nEWOmeDf OE E NTu g
NO. 3649. WnATHn-FAnt. WASHINGTON. D. C.. S8ATURDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1916. ONE CENT
WREST NOVAVAS
FROM AUSTRIANS
Italians Score Important Vic
tory, Vienna Admits.
(4y the Internatiemal News Serviee.)
London, Oct. 13.-Desperate and impor
tant fghting took place today on both the
Gerixia and Trentino fronts in the Italian
theater of war.
Pressing eastward from Oppacichlasalla,
the Italians wrested Novavas from the
Austrians. This victory for the Italians
Is admitted oMcially by Vienna.
The Austrians also admit than in a
series of violent attacks, farther south.
the Italians repeatedly swept ever first
uIn trenches, but assert these onsughts
were finally checked.
In the Julian Ips, north of Getia.
heavy bombardments featured the day.
In the Trentino. strong Austrian de
fences were taken near Psamblo. The
Italians repulsed the counter-attacks that
resulted. Vienna admits the Austrian
lines were withdrawn from Cosmagon, in
this sector, but declares the Roite ridge
positions are being maintained.
Rome reports that a hostil aeroplane
was downed over Gorilzia, falling to earth
near San Marco. Few casualties and
slight damage were inflicted in air raids
over Grado Legoon and other points on
the Isonso.
LIQUID FIRE ATFACK
REPULSED DY FRENCH
Gen. Foch Carries Trench Sections
Near St. Pierre-Vast Woods.
I By the laternatienal News Service.)
Paris. Oct. 13.-Following the deter
mined assault of yesterday, the big
guns resumed their thunder along the
entire front from the Ancre to beyond
the Somme.
The Germans carried out a heavy fire
at some places, especially to the south of
the Somme and against the British front
in the district of Gueudecourt, Cource
lette. and Martinpuich.
There was little infantry fighting fol
lowing the tremendous efforts put for
ward by the troops of both sides on the
previous day. By a sharp attack Gen.
Foch's troops carried more trench sec
tns In the outskirts of St. Pierre-Vaast
n nods, while the Germans attempted an
assault behind floods of liquid fire. This
attack was broken up by the French
Ire.
The BrItsh, continuing for a large part
of the their "TsAlt which began
rly iAnhe morning of yesterday. sue
essd4g In trther appreciably &dvan*
ing their front between Oneudecourt ani
Lea Bouest, as well as northwest of
Gueudecourt. Some prisoners were taken.
while north of TrIepval. German attacks
designed to regain ground around the
Important Stuff redoubt, were driven off.
CAPTURE OF SERES BY
BRITISH SEEMS NEAR
,By the Interastleaul News ServieT.)
ILondon. Oct. 13.-That the capture of
the important Greek city of Seres from
the Bulgarians by the British is linmin
t at is indicated by official advices reach
ing here today from Saloniki.
.\ British cavalrv column has reached
the outskirts of Seres, disper-ing the
Bulgarians that tried to stop it.
'eree was occuried by the Bulgarians
in thei: .ve into Greek Macedonia dur
i-g th s'ummer. The city is east of the
S ma River and thirteen miles south,
or I-emirhissar. It lies on the Saloniki
I wedan.'utch Railroad, at the foot of the
! apakli Mountains.
TAKES SUICIDE SENTENCE.
But Court De-3ides Jail Better 'I'an
Deep Spot in tiver.
Kansas City, Mo.. Oct. 13.-"How
would you like to go down on the Kan
sas avenue bridge, pick out the deepest
spot in the river and jump In'
It was Judge Joseph Brady. of the
Kansas City Police Court, speaking t&
E. A. Sargeant. whose wife had just tes
tified her husband had beaten her be
cause she refused to support him.
gargeant. 35 years old. pondcred for a
moment and said. "I'll do it."
"Wait, Judge. spoke up Mrs. Bar
geant, "that would be no punishment. He
tried to hang himself once."
"Why didn't you let him?" asked the
court.
'I did, but the neighbors rushed In and
cut the rope."
"Under those circumstances a year in
the workhouse will Just about fit the
case, announced the court.
TROOPER CB2TC FRM~.
Dishonorable Discharge for Writ
Ing to Paper About 00eer.
El Paso, Tex., Oct. 1.-Private Hugh
Clark, of Company ), Second Mass
achusetts Infantry, who was sentenced
to serve a prison sentence at Fort Leaven
worth by a court-martial at Columbus, N.
Mer., because of an article he wrote
to a Holyoke paper, has been released.
His sentence was remitted, but he was
dishonorably discharged from the service.
It was claimed that the article criticised
his siper flee
SPY OKARGE ANGERS VATICAN.
Rome, Oct. 13.-The Holy See will ng
longer be responsible fur transit of let
ters of prisoners of war. says thie Cor
tier. d'Italia.
This step has been taken, the news
paper adds, so as to give no ground "for
the calumnious accusations of espionage
which are being diseeted against the Vat
ican by certain newspapers."
TABLT. BOARD.
lINCOLN CAFE. S?,i Ujmns Be,"
ammla dissr. 1i. veietsbe disse, Se.
a m..me, s-M to 9:3 a. in.,
NeIs rn. A la orte io. t a. a. to 7
SOne way to decrease the high
cost of living Is to consult the
classified ads, You'll find t he
one shown above and scores of
ethes a ..a. e 18 o e
Teegraph Tips
Narragansett Pier, It. L. Oct. I3.-Fear
Ing to leave the storm tossed barge CoM!
today when a lifeboat put off, the wife of
the barge's captain was drowned. The
Woman's husband tried in -vain to par
suade her to accompany him, but she
thought the largr craft the safer.
New York. Oct. IL-More than 100 girls
employed in a chocolate factory were
driven from their work this afternoon
when fire. starting In the J. C. Farr Lum
ber Company yards spread to the candy
works.
Bar Harbor, Me.. Oct. 13.-The U. S. S.
Paulding. a torpedo boat destroyer, ar
rived here today and anchored. She is
one of the destroyers which left New
Port, R. L. hurriedly late yesterday and
which it was reported went in search of
an alien submarine base on the coast.
Ottawa. Ontario, Oct. I3.-Announce
ment was made today that up to Oc
tober 3 the casualties among men and
officers of the Canadian expeditionary
force totaled ,026.
Seattle, Wash.. Oct. 1.-Missing her
way In a dense fog the steamship Itsuku
shira MaIr went ashore today near West
Point. Puget Sound. The vessel is re
ported to be resting easily. and it is be
lieved she will be floated again at high
tide.
Philadelphia, Oct. 1.-Dr. Matthew
Woods. 67 years old, one of the most fa
mous specialists on epilepsy in the world
and also a publicist, art cdfiector and
traveler, died here early today, following
an operation in which his left leg was
amputated.
St. Louis. Oct. 13.-Rev. Irl R. Hicks, 71.
editor and publisher of the Almanac
hearing his name and widely known (or
his weather predictions, died here today
of pneumonia. Dr. Hicks claimed to have
forecasted many storm disasters of recent
years.
Madrid. Oct. 13.-Kng Alfonso presided
at a meeting of the Spanish Cabinet to
day when the questions arlsing from Ger
man submarine activities were discussed.
New Orleans, Oct. 13.-Resolutions urg
ing that both men and women would be
required by local regulations to wear
skirt effects on their bathing suits were
adopted by the American Association of
Park Superintendents Lit its closing ses
sion here today.
Chisholm. Minn.. Oct. 13-Because
friends say he believed the "Funny" sec
tions of Sunday new papers were making
him a subject of ridicule, and that per
sons were ridiculing him because of re
semblance to a funny page character.
Charles Marila, 2 years old, a miner.
unmarried. committed suicide today by
blowing himself up with dynamite.
Wilkeabarre, Oct. 13.-Too late to save
life, but daring to attempt the feat, Jos
eph Smolinski, of Breslau, dashed into a
bonfire yesterday and rescued Anna Syn
cavage. 4 years old. The boy extinguish
ed flames in the girls dress, but she died
later in Mercy Hospital.
WIbeted, Cnmn., Oct 1--Flema yester
day razed the leased home of Julian
Street. the author. at Norfolk. The pla"
was called High Field Hut and was
owned by Prof. Frederick W. Williams, of
Yale. The fire was caused by a defective
nue.
Yonkers. N. Y.. Oct. 13.-Miss Anna
Shea, who captured an armed burglar
after he had shot and wounded a police
man. has been crowned queen of the
Chamber of Commerce carnival.
New Brunswick, N. J.. Oct. 13--By
order of Queen Wilhelmina, of the
Netherlands, Chevalier Van Rappard.
Dut-h Minister to the United States,
attended the celebration of the one hun
dred and fiftieth anniversary of the
foundation of Rutgers College her today
and in her name bespoke congratulations.
Jackson, Miss. Oct 13.-Seventy--fve
members of the First Regiment, dis
satisfied because they have been kept
in camp near here when other Guard,
ot .anizations have been sent to the
h.,rder, have disappeared, officers said
today. Charges of desertion are pend
ng against twelve Guardsmen.
Philadelphia, Pa., Oct. 13.-Adolph
Segal. who built the Majestic Hotel, the
Bertram apartments and the Pennsyl
Ivania Sugar Refinery, and whose mete
oric financing of these projects Is be
lieved to have unbalanced his mind, has
been released temporarily from the State
Hospital for the Insane at Norristown.
St. LOuis, Mo., Oct. .13.-The decision
of the Kansas Public Service Commis
sion Wednesday, authorizing the St.
Louis and San Francisco Railroad t
Issue M24.400,000 in stocks and bonds has
been declared by W. B. Biddle, one of
the receivers, to be the last step pre
liminary to a termination of the receiver
ship.
Hammonton, N. J., Oct. 13-A deter
mined effort will be made by habeas cor
pus proceedings to obtain the release of
Millie De Marco, pretty 19-year-old ltad
ian girl, who with three men compan
ions is alleged to have been part of the
band that last week attacked the car of
Andrew J. Rider, known as the "Cran
berry King," killing Henry Rider and
wounding three others.
San Juan, Puerto Rico, Oct. 13.-A dele
gation of six from the Danish West Indies
Islands has left here for Denmark by
way of New York to urge the sale of the
islands to the United States.
Montreal, Oct. 13.-Raphael Verrachia.
president of the Italian Society of Chi
gago, and wealthy, was found dead in bed
here, strangled by a bathrobe string.- He
was blind apd deaf.
San Juan, Porto RIco. Oct. 13-Dr. Ar
thur Yager, governor of Porto Rico, has
taken passage for New York to confer
with the heads of the various steamship
companles and urge a settlement of the
strike of stevedderes and cartmen.
New London. Conn., Oct. 1.-The Scott
Wrecking Company tug Alert, which has
gone to Vineyard Haven, is believed here
to be on her way to meet ans Incoming
3erman merchant submarine. On board
is Capt. David Hunt, who holds a mas
ter pilot's licence, and erho had been en
gaged to pilot a submarine, supposed to
be the Bremen, into port.
Paris. Oct. 13.-Gen. Joffre, the French
:onmander In chief, today Issued a gen
tral order declaring that it Is the aered
sbligation and imperative milltary dpty of
mvery Frenchman to subecribe to the'
sew war loan.
Baltimore, Md,, Oct. IL.-John MaCnA
ogh, who was the last police chief of the
>ld city of New York, and the Srst chief
if Greater New York, Is in Johns Hep
tins Hospital suffering from standah
:rouble, He tasander tr..tent yp gg
. N, T. m. the ....t.
PATROLUNG COAST
U.S. Destroyers GuardWaters
from Maine to New York.
(<y the tr.t.... News .ervi.)
Newport, R. I., Oct. iL-A torpedo boat
destroyer patrol from the coast of Maine
to New York was established today. The
fast American warships are charged with
the double duty of enforcing Agnerican
neutrality and of saving passengers and
seamen in the event another merchant
man Is sunk by a German submarine.
It was learned here today that the
patrol was ordered by the Navy Depart
ment at Washington. and may be ex
tended within the next few days to
Galveston, Texas. It also is understood
that all of the reserve torpedo flotilla, at
Charleston, S. C., will be called at onoe
into active service.
Ten destroyers are being held in New
port harbor for emergency calls. All
have their ste&= up and are ready to put
to sea at a moment's notice.
Admiral Mayo, commanding the
Atlantic fleets has ordered a survey of
the New England coast to investigate the
report that belligerent ships have Getab
lished a base there, or that wireless
stations are being operated in violation
of American neutrality.
Fifteen destroyeAs were engaged today
In the patrol service. Their activities are
being directed from the Birmingham,
Admiral Gleaves' flag ship, at anchori
here. 4
DUM-DUM BULLETS RY
IN BAYONNE BAITLN
Policeman Hurt and Strikers Arrested
in Fight to Seize Hook District.
(By the Iternageal News Service.)
Bayonne, N. J.. aet. 13.-One policeman
was injured and a number of strikers
were arrested In a battle for the posses
sion of the Constable Hook district hers
today. Several of the strikers were sup
posed to have been wounded by the riot
guns, but none was found. The police
believe they were carried away by their
friends. *
The police believe the strikers have im
ported rifles and are using dum-dum bul
lets. The sniping and the general rioting
subsided to a considerable extent late to
day, but the police still are recruiting
deputies.
Although additional battles between
strikers and the police are expected, the
companies not affected by the strike will
make an effort to open their plants Mon
day.
Jacob . Groff, a former enlisged man
in the , Ited States army, aqd a fore
man In the employ of the Gemeral Chem
ical Company, was shot tW death by
strikers early today. He had boasted
that he could. assisted by a squad of reg
ulars, clean up the Hook district In a
day or so.
Mayor Garvin declared this evening that
the Bayonne police and firemen were
capable of restoring order. and that
Sheriff Kinkeae and his 300 armed men
were not wanted.
In one of the sharpest battles in the
tempestous labor history of Bayonne.
100 police. armed with riot clubs, heavy
rifles and revolvers, made the charge
through the Constable Hook district, scat
tering a cursing brigade of 5,000 men and
women.
EXPECT GREECE TO WAR
SOON AGAINST BULGARS
(By the idternstionsi News servlee.)
t/omidon. Oct. 1.-Formal declaration of4
war is expected to be made by the revo-!
lutionary government in Greece against
Biul ga ria.
Gn. Zimbrakakis, who has been sworn
in as revolutionary mnilster of war byI
Venizelos. has already started to collect!
an army, and Veniseloe, head of the
rewolutlonary movement, will issue a!
proclamation shortly calling Greeks ofl
military age to the revolutionary colors.
A dispatch from Athens, printed in the
Times today, states that the Greek navy
was taken over by the allies as the re
suit of the discovery of a conspiracy.
According to this telegram, officers of the
Greek fleet erere plotting with anti
tente sympathizers to concentrte
Greece's navy on the Thessalonian coast
in the rear of the allied armies.
MEXICAN BANDiTS QUIET.
Halt Activities West of Chihuahua
City, gays Report.
United States Field Headquarters In
Mexico. Oct. 12, (via Radio to Columbus.
N. Mex.). Oct. 13.-Bandit activity west
of Chihuahua City has come to a stand
still, according to information received!
at headquarters.
A recent rumor that the town of
Madera In Chihuahua had been occupied
by Villistas is now known to be incorrect.
The marauaers penetrated no farther,
north than Temocachic on the 4fexican
Northwestern Railroad, fifty miles south- I
west of Madera.
NO HOPE FOR EARTY PEACE.
Amsterdam, Oct. 13.-Premier Asquith's
recent speech in Commons holds out na
hope for an early peace, saId the Cologne
Gazette.
'So long as he drawl5 out mendacious
phrases about the menaced independence
of small nations, an understanding with
hIm is imposil" said the Gazette, "So
long as British Ministers do not reoog
nise the uselessn of predatory war, the
nations will con nuato bleed."
U-BOATS TO OBSERVE LAW.
The' Hague, Oct. 31-Implicit instruo
tions have been given Germean submarime
commanders. it was announced here to
day, not to sink neutral mnerchantmen ex
cept In strict accordance with Interpa
tional law.
The Geurmaa. Legation Informed the
Dutch goverment of this omnciall today,
yah's Un Atthads Iuvard.
Cambridge, Mass., Oat. h3.-xerri Med
ley, son of Pr'esidieg aMee, of Yale,
has turned his back on the Yale - Iaw
BehooL, and is enrolled at Herverd. Had
ley was gresnate4 in tune fr Yale,
where he reosired many acaiec peggse
Hadisy's only oo""eat en the unumal
situation of his oemlung here was ~
m.'.se ha. tha bassa, mv .sam'
Hope to Wi. en ong
(3y Iatemate.a 3es geisse.)
New York. Oct. l.-Fred H.
humno the Brooklya betting
, today annoauned
the toloawing adds fbr beft em the
election:
8 to 6 on Hughes.
9 to 6 on Hughes to win New
York State.
According to Schumm, there Is
an abundance of Hughes money in
his hands. Most of it, he declares,
is being wagered by New Yorkers
who lost heavily on the baseball
series. They are Orm In the belef
that they can recoup on Hughes'
election.
WILSON LAUDED
Samuel Gompers Praises Ac
tion on Eight-Hour Law.
"My judgment is free from party dom
Ination. I am enrulled with no party, but
I support any party which favors the
cause of humanity. I urge, advise and
appeal to citizens of this republic to see
to it that they go to the polls and vote
as their oonsciences dictate."
This was the closing statement of Sam
uel Gompers, president of the American
Federation of Labor, at a meeting of the
Eight-Hour League of labor sympathiz
ers at the National Rifles' Armory last
night.
Not until after he had reviewed the
evolution of the eight-hour controversy
from its beginning and had taken In turn
the developinents of the last forty-five
years that Mr. Gompers came to the
point of talking on present issues.
His attention was devoted to the Adam
son law, or as he termed it, "the Bail
road Brotherhood's demand." "The de
mand for time and a half for overtime
was not a demand for extra pay, but a
demand for a penalty which would force
the roads to readjust their schedules and
grant an eight-hour day." he said.
"To my certain knowledge," he said,
"the railroad men did not ask for the
Adamson law. The time had come when
monkeying had to be stopped and the
mastter would be submitted to the men.
'In this great struggle," he said. "the
President sympathized with the workers.
and I will alaays revere that man who
feels for his fellow-man. That action of
the President was the greatest ever
committed by any Presiqen, of the Unit.
ed States.
"Kvery message ad addrees to Congress
has been full of human sympathy and
kindness. If the people fail to give him a
vote of confidence. it will be the greatest
blow ever inflicted on themselves."
In speaking of Hughes, Mr. Gompers
aid: "I regard him as a great jurist, a
man of great intelligence. But I think
him out of touch with the spirit of the
masses."
He reviewed the acts of the administra
tion. stating that in his belief the fart
that the country had been kept from the
ravages of war had meant the salvation
:f civilization.
Herman F. Dodge, of the Order of Ral.
way Trainmen, almost precipitated a riot
when he stated that "The workers would
have forced legislation no matter who was
President.' He pledged the vote of 7.5 per
7ent of the trainmen of the country for
P'rpident Wilson.
Other speakers were Charles W. Darr,
president of the local Wilson-Marshall
League: John H. Lorch. president of the
Eight Hour League: Samuel De Nedrey,
and John H. Furguson.
WISSING ALEXANDRIA
GIRL HELD BY POLICE
tlanta Authorities May Charge Male
Companion with White Slavery.
(By the Internstismel News Service.)
Atlanta, Ga.. Oct. 1&-Charles Baum,
M, of Baltimore. and Marguerite Eare
heart, 16. of Alexandria, Va., are under
letentlon while Federal authorities con
iider making a charge pf white slavery
igainst the man.
Miss Eareheart claims that Baum
brought her to Atlanta about three
weeks ago from Alexandria on a motor
ycle. Baum. who has a wife and baby
In Baltimore, said that the girl dared
tim to run away with her and that he
kccepted the dare.
Marguerite Eareheart is a daughter of
Mrs. Harry L. Litchford, Swf 1106 Duke
ptreet, Alexandria, and J. W. Eareheart,
>f Hagerstown, Md.
The girl disappeared from her home In
ltxandria on the afternoon of August
:. It was stated at the time that she
was in the company of Charles H. Baum,
if Baltimore, and left with Baum for a
'ide on a motorcycle.
After waiting six days for the girl to
-eturn, the Alexandria police were re
lueated to institute a search.
In a letter written recently by the
niother to the Richmond police, asking
them to institute search for the girl,
:he mother is quoted as saying:
"The suspense is awful, and I can
hardly stand it much longer. I am
astlsfied she was kidnapped, because she
seemed perfectly satisfied at home,"
CUPID TURNS LAUGH
ON FRIDAY THE 13TH
Friday is always a slim day for Col.
[1-o11, the man who passes out the mar
-lage prescriptions at City Hall. Young
souples, and old ones, too, seem to he
luhious about the qualities of Friday
is a day on which to purchase a wedding
permnit.
Yesterday was Friday and also the
ith. By all precedents this should
save been the day on which Cupid bats
ow, but to the surprise of all he hit
ap near the 1.000 point. Eleven couples
procured marriage "iem -tree to col
pred couples.
Berlin, <via layvit. wireless>, Oct.
la-Subecriptios to the titth Geman war
,can have reached tea Minie, marks (32,
186001.00 ef which savibm baas- aub
~ u~m
lNO U-BOAT8 SEEN
TwelveShips Reach PortWith
out News of Submarines.
(By the Isternatims News @od&)
New York, Oct. 13.-Twelve vessels thait
reached port today reported no signs of
the U-IS nor of the flotilla of British
merchantmen that left port last night.
Some of the British cruiser squadron and
some of the United States destroyers were
Sighted In the vicinity of Nantucket by
Capt. Linderoos, of the Russian steam
ship. H#sperus, in from Huelva, Spain.
The absence of wireless reports from
the fleet of munition carriers and the
fact that none of the incoming steamers
sighteg them was accepted as a good
aUgury 1% shipping circles. It was pointed
out that this confirms earlier reports that
the vessels were convoyed to ofa by the
eruiser squaron and then instructed to
follow a secret course plotted for them
by Admiral Motagu Browning. in com
mand of the British naval and merchant
shipping on the Atlantic Seaboard.
No word Is expected from any of them
n w until their arrival at their ports of
destination. The fact that no news was
received from the Adriatic had a stimu
lating effect on the maritime exchange.
and underwriters dropped their rates con
siderably.
From the official manifests filed today
at the custon house, it was learned that
six of the teamers that left last night
carried even more ammunition than at
first reported. The total estimated value
of the combined cargoes of all the ships
was more than 2,00,00.
MAY DRIVE WARSIIPS
FROM COAST OF U. S.
State Department Likely to Issue Rul
ins Against Belligerent Vessels.
It was declared authoritatively at the
State Department yesterday that the
operations of belligerent warships on the
hIgh sees close to. but beyond the juris
ietion of, the United States, might be
considered by this government to be un
friendly.
It was pointed out that the British
cruisers hovering off New York Harbor.
and to which the State Department ob
jected, were more than fifty miles from
the American shore, but in the steamer
lanes.
There is excellent authority for the
statement that this government is con
sidering seriously the promulgation of a
proclamation putting into effect a regu
lation affecting hospitality to belngerenf
warships somewhat sammean, po that of
the ~ ~ ~ h Dtlcfllegerwb
It,mos don eul ships the privlege
of entering American ports for any pur
pose whatever except for repairs, or un
less they should be driven in by stress
of weather.
It was stated an act of Congress would
be necessary for this government to at
tempt to extend its jurisdiction over seas
beyond the three-mile limit established
by international law.
Some authorities asserted, however,
that the notification by the State De
Partment to belligerent governments of
the intention of the United States to con
sider an unfriendly warlike operation
close to the American shores in a manner
that would interfere with American com
merce would have the full force of law.
BETHLEHEM STEEL MAY
MERGE BIG WIRE FIRMS
(fy the Internatienal News service.)
New York. Oct. 1l--A syndicate of New
York capitalists, closely allied with the
Bethlehem Steel Corporation. are work
ing on a merger of four wire manufactur
Ing plants in Worcester, Mass., It was
learned today. It is the plan to merge
the companies into a $15,0t000 corpora
tion.
The companies which may figure in the
merger are the Spencer Wire Company.
capital 2.000,000; Wright Wire company.
capital 0850.000; Morgan Spring Company,
capital $400.00 and the Clinton Wire Cloth
Company, capital $400,000.
HIS LOOT TOTAMS $100,000.
Edueated Robber Used chieroform
to Put Victims to sleep.
"hicago, Oct. 13-Polce are today
trying to make up a list of the places
which Adam Prochacki has confessed
robbing and obtaining therefrom S100.
000 worth of loot. In each instance he
chloroformed his victims by means of a
hitherto unheard-of contrivance of wire.
which conveyed a drug-saturated rag
without making it necessary for him to
approach close to them.
The robberies, which were committed
almost exclusively in wealthy homes,
cover such a long period of time that the
police doubt their ability to catalog
all of them. Prochacki said he never
went armed and never had occasion to
injure a victim. He is a graduate of the
University of Warsaw.
BABY FOUND DECAPITATED.
Armenian Oolowy of East St. Louts
Blamed by Father.
Eas't St. Louis. Ill.. Oct. 13.-The be
headed body of Alphonso Macartan. 3
years old. sho dftappeared from his home
October 4 and was believed to have been
kidnapped, was found today on a city
dump pile in sIght of the .boy's homse. The
father. A. G. Magarian, had offered a re
ward of $1,000 for the return of the boy.
Magarian said he believed the boy had
been murdered by members of the Ar
mnenlan colony, with whom he had quar
reled over business matters.
BRITISH ~E MORE MATT.
Berlin, via Bayville. Oct. 1l.-The Brit
ish authorities, according tos.reports from
Amnsterdan, conlbscated all the mall car
ried by the steamers Nieuew Amsterdam,
Ternate, ad Rotterdam.
The Danish postmaster general is
quoted by Rottesda dispatches as stat
ing that ,the steaers Iceland and Botte,
plying between Iceland and Denmark.
were foroeg by the British to give up
their mail.
AMTYSW StudeatB f0r Hughas.
Cismbridbe, Mass,. Oct. 13-Charles E.
Hughes wee the straw Presidential bal
lot conducted by the Harvard students
today, reeiving -lml4 out of 1,i98 votes
cast. PE iet s~on's total was il.
Besss, te esatudats, receved
TO FLAIR L1M XMT iM
New Tek meetrial hsew saim
Rays to Phtia-lpala.
New York. Oct. 13.-Attempts will be
"ads this week to flash signals from this
city to the navy yard at Philadelphia.
ninety miles away, by means of a power
fol uea9&ight mounted on the roof of the
Grand Obntral Palan where the flectri
cal show ts now In program
The new searchlight. which is said to
have a brilliancy twenty-two times great
er than that of the Sandy Hook light, is
the invention of Elmer A. Sperry. a mem
ber of the Naval Advisory Board, %ell
known through his gyro-compass and
aeroplane stabilizer. In tests already
made the light's rays have been seen at
a distance of fifty miles.
CANAL IN FTAXM.
Olgarette Stamp lets Breekiyn Wa
terway Ablase.
New York. Oct. 13-Trouble always
coe In clusters. Ask any one who lives
in Brooklyn. Not only is the Brooklyn
bull club made to look foolish by a team
from Boston. the Irish metropolis, but
along Comes some person and throws a
lighted cigarette Into the Gowanus Canal.
one of Brooklyn's most notorious insti
tutions.
The Gowanus Canal perfumes a large
and densely populated stretch of terri
tory, especially on windy nights, and the
perfume is riot that of attar of roses.
There were several inches of oil on
the water, and the oil Ignited. Two men
were injurA and several boats were
damaged by the flames.
JATT.ED FOR BEATING FATER.
84-Year-Old Man Testifies Aaintst
lne to Court.
Boston. Mass.. Oct. 21.-Six months was
the sentence meted out yesterday In the
East Boston Police Court to James E.
Ryan. of East Boston. after his 4-year
old father, whose face was badly bruised,
charged him with assault and battery.
Tne father testified that his son came
home intoxicated and belabored him with
his fists. It was the third time he had
been asraulted by his son. Judge Barnes
added an extra month to the sentence on
the charge of drunkenness. Ryan ap
pealed and was held in bonds of 3W00.
WAR STRIKES SAFETY ATUH.
Result Will Be., Not lase, bset
shorter stems.
New York, Oct. 1l.-The war. which has
revised the cost of living upward and
the sie of the loaf of bread downward.
has now extended Its fatal influence to
the safety match.
Dispatches from Stockholm today re
count the latest blow to Swedish indus
try. Sikkerhetting tandstickers has long
been one of the leading occupations of
the Swedish populace. but the Russian
government has prohibited the exporta
tion of aspen wod. and the SwedIsh fac
tories have announced that they will be
forced to reduce the sise ef the safs
match.
RAPHAEL PAEL REPORTED.
Patting Stolen freos Vattena Si-ty
Years Age said to Be Leonted.
New York. Oct. 1.-t was reported
from Greenwich. Conn.. yesterday that
one of two panels by Raphael. stolen
from the Vatican sixty years ago, had
been located in this city. It was reported
found by a woman In Canada and sold
for $15 to George Devoll.
A man at Mr. Devoll's residence last
night said he had been instructed by Mr.
Devoll to deny the story. The rep'rt was
untrue, he said.
POLITICIAN II CHAIN GANG.
Georgian Who stabbed Peger Gets
Reavy Seutence.
Atlanta. Ga., Oct. 1&.-G. K Von,
doorkeeper of the Georgia House of Rep
resentatives. who yesterday was con
Victed of stabbing Thomas B. Felder. an
Atlanta lawyer, was sentenced today to
serve one year in a chain gang, six
months In jail and fined $1.00M
Felder was stabbed d'3ring a fight with
Vason in a hotel August 3 and was badly
wounded.
BRING BIACKMAILERS EAST.
Members of Syndieate to stand TrIlj
for FleeeIng Woman.
Chicago, Oct. 13.-Henry Russell and
Edward "Doe" Donahue. alleged nem
bers of the so-called blackmaIl syndicate,
were taken East today in custody of
United States marshals.
Both are alleged to be implicated In
the fleecing of Mrs. Regina Klipper. of
Philadelphia. Ruseell Is to stand trial in
Philadelphia and Donahue is to be ar
raigned in New York.
Buh Godman. alleged "lure. waived
examinatIon and gave $13.(oo bonds for
her appearance in New York December 6.
STATE BAN PUT ON KISSING.
All Female Employes of Albany Ex
cited Over it.
Albany. Oct. 1.-I-There was much ex
cited whispering among the fair emploves
of the varlous offics in the capitol today
when the Sti'te department of health
posted a bulletin in th corridors and ele
vators. one paragraph of which reads:
"Kissing or the mouth. especially chil
dren. should he discouraged."
There was considerable other advice on
the tranenission of colds. grip ard other
allments, one of a series of bulletins to
be Issued from time to time.
HAS CLINIC FOR EUGENICS.
Cleveland Hospital Will iietermlme
itteem of Couptea.
Cleveland, Oct. 13.-Dan Cupid received
a omibe today when it wee announoed
that Mount Sinai Hospital. Clev'eland's
newest medical institutionl, would open a
clinic for eugenica.
Marriages guaranteed to be happy andi
a better race of Clevelanders is the ob
ject of the clinic.
Advice and exanmtaations will he gives
prospective bridde and bstdegreemos to
determine their gaele Ctas.
lAIE ADDANS 70R 'WIIE.
Lilliam D. Wald Al.. Boeks Demo
atie Candidate.
New York. Oct. 13.-Announceet was
made today by the Woodrow Wilson
Independent League that Uhiian . Waig
and Jane Addaans had come out In eap
port of President, Wisen.
The league says that witt Anteinette
Punk, iss Wald, and Miss Adanmn the
Democrats have the support et tihe three
leading women In thin eountry.
Qaidseet Seetes he akmtee.
Ever four o. the' Hour. Bal tianore
HUGHES URGES
HIGHER TARIFF
Says American Industry Must
Be Guarded After War.
(By the latemateinal News Servte.)
Joplin, Mo., Oct. lI.-olemni "arniing
that the United States must take drastic
steps quickly to combat European cam
mOrOial 0aopetition after the war and
adjust itself to new conditions following
collapse of the munitions market abroad.
was sounded by Charles Evans Hughes
In his speech here tonight. end.ng an all
day tour of Missouri.
Mr. Hughes was entirely rested when
he spoke tonight, and he emphasised with
great vigor the necessity for a strong
protective tariff to isafeguard Amea
industry after peace is declared.
"No thoughtful American can view our
Present economic conditions without seri
ous appreh. e;nr.' Ni. Hugsc 1-1,1 h
audience.
"We are under the unhealthy stirmu'ap
of the European war. Hopes are raised
which cannot be fulfilled Our present
prosperity is built on sand Our ei
ports have jumped to fabulous figures
because of the withdrawal of pro. acton
of the illi.,n, f men abrad who se
engaged I ) tghting Our !-'-e is net
determined hv conditions of norma: orm
petition, but of an abnormal Eurrern
want. Mtuntons of war are but a fra. -
tion of these suddenly expended exports
For everything we produce. foodetiffs.
metals. manufactured articles of ee.
sort. Europe puts forth hands to fill the
void created hy her exterrm:y.
"It is manifest that we cannot nier t!.
situation that will arise at th rce..
the war without a seneible us o r
tecting power of government '
Mr. Hughes dec lred that. despite rw
of the war. the F;rcpeani nation i
careful co-ordination. improced rcco.
and discipline would have an enorni-upi
Increased productive effleiency F hen the
turned their energies to lea-eful p.r
poses.
Mr. Rughes declared tha -t: aps1
of the Democratic party is the Euroet-an
war" that "when the war i -th
carital will be gone '
"Summarizing." he said. * I r i o
say I stand:
"First. for America prospercus st
contented with a just dietributior of a
prosperity well secured by proper pro
teettre potliees.
'Second. I want to see the American
fiag the symbol of rig%%ousness of pow
er, of the dignity of protected citiaen
ehip.
-rhird., I waI te am Ufaat grr
ad with a desire te anee sammsmity. e
e1use SRafng it 4Wa serve no such par
pose throughout the world ielse it re
apects itself.
DENIESi. O0. P. VITORY
WON PUT U. S. IN WAR
Robert Bacon Flays Wilson for A.
tack on Hughes.
Srt.l to The Weantse Delra
New York. Oct 1.-Replying to the
attack made upon him by President Wil
son In the course of his speech at Shadow
I- last Saturday, Robert Bacon han
Mrsed Wlnthe following open letter to
Mr.- Wilson:
"In your capacity of candidate for pub
tic otmee you have seen fit, in a public
address, to eriticise more than 14 0 citi
zers of this State who honored me with
their votes at the recent primarirs.
"With the intertion of making it ap
pear that my candidacy for the PRerubll.
can Senatorial nomination was supported
by men who would Involve this ourtr
in war, you soke of me as 'a r''r a hose
avowed position In respect of Irterna
tional affairs was unneutral. and awhoe.
intention was, if he became a menbe, of
that great council upon international af
fairs at Washington. to promote the in
terests of one side in the present war in
Europe.'
"In your anger and desperation as the
ring of truth closes in about you, you
seem to he trying to make a false issue.
You say that your re-election means
peace. and that Mr Hughes' election
means war Of course, nothing could he
further from the truth It is iconceiv
Phle that a President of the Urited States
,hiA so insult the intelligence of the
Armd-rean people
The statemen that a large number
of Tyour eIlow v!tIzens. because they con
demn veur weak. vacillating polcr. wish
to plunge this country Into the ho-rgre of
war. I preposterous The contention that
you or the Democratie administration
have kept this country out of war is
speclous and unfounded ir fact
WATXS OUT OF JAMT
"No One There, 5. 1 Came Away."
Says Recaptured CeOviet.
Philadelphia- Oct IZ.-"I didn't break
jail. I just wiked ott." declared Jark
Ca rion. _4 - a-s old. of Bainbridge street,
iea r Sevent L w hen he a as arrested hv
Chief of Police iallisey, of Haverford.
and Detectise Cark. on the charge of
hr-ski- i.eve Igo at Bing
.- 1. Y , .-11 was sentenced to
a tern of Fix months in the New York
fail after he had been found guilty of a
minor offense
On September 12 he was mimeed in the
jail and it weas not until yesterday his
whereabouts were known. ('arson was
much surprised when placed under arrest
by the of~oera. "I didn't brea~k jail," he
told the officers. "There was no e
there and I juat walked away."
DONESTICS HARD TO GET.
Dearth Pse.ta, New 1.I eak...s
Albany. N. Y.. 1"2~ 3.-iielptopmut
conditions throughout the county are
generally good, the State burea of -.
ploymenat report,. The percentage et
workers employed in this State is me
higher than it has been for seeeal
years.
There is a "desperate" need of maids
and domestles, the repent maya. 0%e
of $6 to 38 a week and mainte-a-- ap
peale to comparatively flew.
To Operate onI-Eqy Expert.
New York. Oct. 11.-Dr. Frencts lry
I atterlee, jr., pioneer maker of X-say
pictures, is to undergo another operation
ono next Tuesday In an effort to check a
mieasm he cotracted in Ms eaning e-.
a
