The St. Mary Banner.
VOL. XXVIII.
FRANKLIN, LA., SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1916
NO. 25.
0
MicVv
Quality First
After Nov. 30, it will cost you just $70 more
to buy a 7-22 Chalmers. But the price on
the 5-passenger 3400 r. p. m. Chalmers re
mains (for the time being) $1090 Detroit
Until midnight of Nov. 30 you can get a 7-22 Chalmers for $1280 Detroit—a
car of rare ability, fascinating in body equipment, and, like a beautiful woman, of
exquisite charm.
After that date the price becomes $1350 Detroit—$70 more. The $70 is just
a few dollars less than the increase in cost of manufacture of this car since its
appearance in June.
To those who have longed for the 5-passenger 3400 r. p. m. Chalmers—and
have not yet possessed one, just a word of warning: the price remains unchanged
just now—$1090 Detroit; we do not know how long this low price will continue.
We reserve the right to increase the price without notice.
Only those who are buying materials such as go into high-grade automobiles
can begin to realize the steady, upward trend of the materials market.
Just one condition today prevents a rise in price of the 5-passenger 3400
r. p. m. Chalmers—the fact that these cars are being made on a factory "work
order" dating back several months.
Since the "work order" went through materials have jumped in cost again.
When the current "work order" is completed and if materials remain at their
present level or rise higher, only one course will he possible, an increased price.
Those who have been driving Chalmers cars know how diligent has been the
Chalmers effort to set down cars of the quality kind.
They will understand how impossible it would be for Chalmers to dodge the
increase-in-materials issue and maintain the prevailing price on the 7-22 Chalmers.
Lower the quality of the Chalmers car? Never. The Chalmers men take great
pride, not only in the money the car makes for them, but in the car itself. And
pride, as everyone knows, is a thing that can never be compromised.
• It would be like Tissot trying to paint a picture to fit a price.
As long as there's a name "Chalmers", there will he a quality car, and as long
as there's a quality car there'll be a price fixed—not by the Sales Department—but
by cost accountants.
And there'll be a fair deal. Chalmers says these two 3400 r. p. m. models will
be continued into next season. You can bank on that. So that a Chalmers car you
might buy now will be exactly like the one you would buy next spring.
Remember the $70 you can save now by anticipating the rise in price. There's
an old Scotch proverb that says "A dollar saved is a dollar earned". $70 buys a
good suit of clothes, a good pair of shoes, a good hat and some good gloves.
Also it just about pays your dues at the club for a year.
Or, if it's a 5-passenger 3400 r.p.m. Chalmers you want, our advice is to get
'one now.
We are not sure the price is going up and we are not sure that it isn't.
P. W. TROWBRIDGE AUTO CO.,
Phones 224 or 62. Franklin, lia.
NO HUNTING OR TRES
PASSING
^ Allowed on Baldwin plan
jjjion and swamp. All vio
will be prosecuted to
j®® full extent of the law.
Lucius Forsyth, Jr.,
John Paul Baldwin.
dr. J. w. ABEL,
DENTIST
OFFICE AT HOHE,
Telephone 159.
Franklin, i LiJ
ANNOUNCEMENT.
Dr. Beverly W. Smith,
Dr. Espy M. Williams.
This is to announce that both
Dr. Smiih and Dr. Williams are
practicing General Medicine and
General Surgery and either will
entertain and answer ail profes
sional calls.
Dr. Conrad O'NielJ
DENTIST
Office: Gates Building, 2nd
Floor
Office Phone 96 Residence Phone 90
FRANKLIN, LA.
PUBLIC P ROULA M ATION.
Public notice is her. by given by the
Hoard of Supervisoi -, of Election of
the Parish of St. Mary, in accordance
with law, that on Tuesday, November
1th, 1916, between the hours of 6
o'clock A. M,, and 7 o'clock 1*. M., an
election will be held at the various
polling precincts throughout the Par
ish of St. Mary.
For Presidential Electors; one mem
ber of the House of Representatives of
the United States of America, from
the Third t Impression il District of
Louisiana; Judge and District Attor
torney, in and for the Hard Judicial
District, St. Mary Parish. La.; two
members of the General Assembly of
the State of Louisiana from the Parish
of St. Mary; three members of the
Board of School Direct >rs in and for
the Parish < » f St Mary, one each res
pectively from Ward 2. Ward .5 and
Ward 8; and to \'ote for or against
the various IS <'o'.stitutional Amend
ments submitted by the General As
sembly of 1 PIG. to'be passed upon by
the voters of the State of Louisiana.
Given officially this 2nd day of Oc
tober, 1916, at Krank 1 in. La.
K. A. BOI UKKAUX,
W. H Vktteh,
Wilbur H. Kkamkk,
Board of Supervisors of Election, St.
Mary Parish, Louisiana.
Franklin,, La.. October 2nd, 1916.
Received and liled October 2nd, 1916,
WlLBUK H. Kramer, Clerk.
Commissioners and Clerks of
Election.
List of Commissioners and
Clerks of Election to serve at tha
polls of the various election pre
cincts throughout .the Pari-h of
St. Mary, La.,«Tuetday, Novem
ber 7th, 1916:
' First Ward
F irst Precinct, Charenton Poll —
Kmde Hebert, Albert Pecot, Alex
Pecot, Commissioners; E. N. Gockes,
Clerk.
Second Precinct, Sorrel Poll—Moisa
Breaux, Louis D. Verret, Paul Men
doza, Commissioners; E. A. Boud
reaux, Clerk.
Second Ward.
First Preciuct, Glencoe Poll—El
ward Pichoff, William Cropper, A. A.
Bonvillaiu, Commissioners; J. C.
Brown, Clerk.
Second Precinct, Louisa Poll—L. S.
Allem in, Fred J. Maher, Fred Carlin,
Commissioners; T. J. Lasseigns,
Clerk.
Third Ward.
First Precinct, Franklin Poll -A. B.
Chadwick, Clafiye Barrilleaux, Clar
ence G irdy, Commissioners; John A.
O'Nleil, Clerk.
Second Precinct, Baldwin Poll—A.
•I. LeBourgeois, Wm Penn. A. J,
Simmotmeaux, Commissioners; John
C. Kramer. Clerk.
Fourth Ward
First Precinct, Ceutreville Poll—
Numi HauagritT, A. W. Etienne. Ar
thur Dugas, Comm ssiouers; W. A.
Chauvin, Clerk.
Fifth Ward.
First Preciuct, Patterson Poll—J.
E. Lassus, Albert Adams, V. U. Ren
trop, Commissioners; A. P. Gaut
reaux. Clerk.
Sixth Ward.
First Precinct, Morgan City Poll —
F. H. Campbell, J. F. Moacnef, Ern
est Ditch, Commissioners; Ban E.
Folse, (berk.
Second Piecinct. Rimes Poll— Reb
ert Bigler, Albert Aucoin. John B.
Graham. Commissioners; Wade Cole
man, Clerk.
Seventh Ward.
First Precinct, Julliea Poll—Geo.
Prévost. Paul Bodin, Pierre llebert,
Commissioners; Henri Jullien, Clerk.
Eig ith Ward
First Precinct, Berwick Poll— C. T.
Drury, Willie Ruder, C. Bergquist,
Commissioners; Louis Labe, Clerk.
F. A Boudreaux,
W. H. Vetter,
Wilbur H. Kramer,
Board of Supervisors of E jection, St.
Mary Parish, Louisiana.
Franklin, La., Oct. 2. 1916.
Received and filed Oct 2. 1916.
Wilbuk H. Kramer, Clerk.
FOR SALE
One steel
MOTOR BOAT,
17 feet long. 4 IL P. Delroit
engine; fully equipped.
Apply to 0 . J. LOUS,
Garden Gitv, La.
For Sale.
90
One A-l Cypher Incubator,
244 egg capacity; double
trays. At a bargain. Apply
Commercial Hotel,
Franklin, La.
