" ---ln-1 -t mi i f i
UNIVERSITY
OCTl fi 1916
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
(1
s-
Vol. IV. No. 26
CINCINNATI, OHIO, OCTOBER 14, 1916
One Dollar a Year
r iCir A-TEr
w
Did Herrick Buy the German Alliance?
If Not, the Alliance Is Composed of the Biggest Ingrates In the State of Ohio. Herrick Made
Speeches At Two Scab Meetings In Cincinnati One of the Bosses and the Other
of the Employees, But He Side -Stepped Organized Labor.
WET AND DRY
RECORDS
ATIiKN POMKHENR.
Senator Atlee Pomerene vot
ed against the Webb-Kenyon
and National Prohibition bills.
M. T. HKIUIICK
Is endorsed by the Anti-Saloon
League.
HERRICK'S
LABOR RECORD
Herrick engaged the greatest
'enemies of organized labor In
the stute to manage his cam
paign. Clius. S. Gongwcr, his man
ager, attempted through crook
ed petitions to bring this Work
men's Compensation Act to a
'"RefejFendum'Vote with u view
to killing it.
O. K. Shimansky is associ
ated with Gongwer in the Ohio
Chamber of Commerce, organ
ised to light all Inns that may
better the conditions of the
working classes.
Every big enemy of organ
ized labor has helped furnish
money to elect Herrick. He Is
against the eight-hour day
and favors the open shop.
POMERENE 'S
LABOR RECORD
Is very clear. He voted for
every labor measure intro
duced during his term of of
fice. He was a leader in passing
the Clayton bill, and the eight
hour law, and has shown that
lie is a friend of labor.
Did the Herrick gang buy the officers
of the German Alliance when they met
in Cleveland? If not, the Alliance is
made up with an association of ingrates.
A few years ago the same men that
met at Columbus last week went up to
Washington and pleaded with two men
in particular, who were in power at
that time, one was Governor Francis B.
Willis, Congressman, and the other was
Hon. Atlee Pomercne. The German Al
liance requested that both these gen
tlemen vote against the Webb-Kenyon
bill and against the national prohibition
bill. Both agreed to do so. When the
time came, Willis did not keep his word
and voted for both dry measures, while
Pomercne carried out the mandate of
the people of his state and voted against
both bills.
Willis came back from Congress and
aspired to be Governor, and strange to
say the German Alliance supported him,
notwithstanding that they knew that he
was the candidate of the Anti-Saloon
League. Two jears afterward, the term
of Senator Pomercne expired and we
are met with the astounding fact that
the German Alliance, whom he had
helped whenever requested, called a
meeting at Columbus, and passed a reso
lution against tiicir friend and in favor
of Myron T. Herrick, who is the candi
date for the Anti-Saloon League, and
U. S. SENATOR ATLEE POMERENE
Wlio voted against the Webb-Kenyon and National Prohibition bills
and who voted for nil labor laws, including the eight-hour day. Mr.
Pomercne is a candidate for re-election on the Democratic ticket and
deserves the support of union labor.
the only excuse he lias for wanting-to
be senator is that he is immensely
wealth and is willing to buy his seat,
no matter what it costs. But what about
the German-American, who claims to
stick to his friends, when his leaders
deliberately endorse his enemies? Can
the deal made in Columbus last week be
carried out?
Can the leaders of the German-American
Alliance deliver the rank and file
to their candidate of the Anti-Saloon
League and to the injury of a man who
supported them when they need his sup
port? Herrick In Cincinnati.
Herrick visited Cincinnati last week
and made seeeches at two scab meetings
one the Hughes Business Men's
League, which is composed of a coterie
of manufacturers who pride themselves
upon their hatred of organized labor, or
an thing wherein their cmplocs will get
better wages and better conditions.
The other meeting was held at Oakley
where thousands of machinists arc now
on strike, lighting for the very eight
hour day that is condemned by Mr. Her
rick, while he did not have the imper
tinence to state that a man could work
longer, his strong objection to the law
is the way it was secured, as if it made
any difference to a working man as to
how he gets the eight-hour day, whether
by fair or foul means, and generally lie
is forced to fight to get it.
Our ex-Governor and ex-Ambassador
to France made a magnificent argument
to the scabs at Oakley who are holding
the jobs of union men because they de
manded an eight-hour day.
Herrick never saw, nor looked into the
eye of one clean, honest union man of
Cincinnati, notwithstanding that the
Central Labor Council met on that day
with its 000 delegates from over 200
unions and who no doubt would have
been glad to bear what Mr. Herrick had
to say, had lie requested it, but he pre
ferred to take in the rottenest scab spot
in Cincinnati.
Hcrrick's campaign throughout the
state is being handled in the same man
ner. He is against organized labor, the
eight-hour day and ever thing that a
working man desires, and is making all
his speeches in non-union or open shops
and is appealing to that class of people
to support him, and if successful lie will
have the distinction of being the only
scab Senator from Ohio, except Mark
Hanna. His election, promises the
crushing out of organized labor and
another vote in the Senate for Prohi
tion. Vote against him.
A THIRD OF A CENTURY
Jesse ,T. Moore, the Tailor, Moved
lint Once in 33 Years.
Jesse J. Moore, the tailor, was lo
cated at Seventh and Race, for the past
thirty ears, and has been in his present
location at Seventh and Vine for two
and a half years, which completes a third
of a century of successful tailoring,
with one change of location. Mr.
Moore has long been acknowledged, as
one of the best cutters in Cincinnati.
"If I Am Elected Union Labor Will
Have No Complaint.9
Said Geo. Puchta a Year Ago, but His Administration
Has Been Used to Crush Union Labor More Than
Any Other. He Has Failed to Keep His Word
All Public Work is Now Being Done by Out of
Town Scabs, While Union Men Walk the Streets.
The ears of Ma or Puchta must have
been warm last, night, if there is any
truth in the saving that when our ears
burn, somebody is talking about ou,
for he was discussed quite liberally at
the meeting of the Building Trades
Council.
Before he was elected he stated that
"if I am elected, union labor will have
nothing to complain of." While most
of the union men placed ver little cred
ence in that statement, they all decided
togive--thc'gentleman?-triai,fc&rnl,'wriat
.are tht!rcsults? -Being-a member of -the
National Metal Trades Association, he
has used the full power of his office to
fight the striking machinists, the striking
riggers, the striking meat-cutters, the
striking teamsters, and every one else,
and that the Queen City Supply Com
paq's wagons hauled meat during the
meat-cutters and teamsters' strike, was
nothing compared with the fact that
every public utility and improvement
now being done by the city under his ad
ministration is the work of imported
scab labor.
The viaduct at Eastern and Delta ave
nues is being erected b non-union labor
and non-residents.
The cit stables is having new roofs
put on the building by Kentucky work
men and scabs.
The Suspension bridge, w hich is a pub
lic utiht and one that Mr. Puchta could
assist union labor if he wanted to, is
being constructed by the American
Bridge Compan, and not a single work
man on the job is a resident of Hamil
ton County.
The new electric plant of the Union
Gas Company, costing seven million dol
ACTIVE IX DALLAS.
Dallas, Texas. Automobile, carriage
and wagon makers have organized.
There are about 200 men in this industry
in Dallas.
Soda water dispensers have formed a
union and applied for a charter.
The new job machine scale of Tjpo
graphical Union is now in effect and will
run for five cars. Several gains have
been made by these workers.
EHATEKNAL AUSTKALIAXS.
Washington. Australian labor papers
just received at the offices of the Amer
ican Federation of Labor show that
trade unionists in that country kept close
watch on the efforts of American rail
ioad sin ice men to secure the eight
hour day.
The Daily Herald, published in Ade
laide, prints these fraternal expressions
in its issue of August 211 :
"The struggle of the railway vvoikeis
in the United States for an eight-hour
day should command the sinpathctic
support of all industrialists throughout
the world. To some it might seem that
the labor troubles of a land so far away
arc of little importance to Australia and
Australians, but against this it has to
be remembered that no matter what the
trouble is, and no matter what the diffi
culties and issue may be, it is all pait
of the general plan of divine discontent
which shall continue to prevail until the
workers come into their own by having
the fruits of their labor applied less for
the benefit of the exploiting class, and
more for the general welfare and hap
piness of mankind."
lars, is being erected by imported tramps
and bums, and Ma or Puchta who sign
ed the ordinance increasing the gas rate
five cents for the compan, never turned
his hand over to try and keep some of
that seven million dollars at home among
Cincinnati workmen.
Another committee was apointed to go
down to the City Hall, and no doubt
they will meet with the same reception as
those who have preceded them.
the regular meeting of the iiuildmg
Trades Council was called to order by
the- actfng-sccrctaryrRoyHerberrr,and- -3-Harry
Dorsey was elected chairman, pro-
tern.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
Vice-President Fisher arrived and as
sumed the chair.
Business Agent Herbert read his re
port which was ordered received and
tiled.
All trades reported business brisk..
The wage agreement of the hoisting
engineers was read and referred to the
Board of Business Agents.
The minutes of the meetings of the
Board of Business Agents were read and
concurred.
Upon motion it was decided to elect
a trustee at the next meeting.
Resolution was adopted, instructing
the editor of The Labor Advocate to send
a copy of the paper protesting against
the "emplo.vment of tramps and out of
town scabs upon public work, to ever
member of the Cit Council and officials
at the City Hall.
After transacting a great deal of rou
tine business the council adjourned to
meet next Thursday night.
MACHINISTS ItEMJCE HOUItS.
Milwaukee. After a two-months'
' strike for shorter hours, machinists em
ployed by the National Brake and Llec
tric company have returned to work.
President Tell of the company assures
the public there was no agreement made
and that the strikers returned voluntar
ily. He also states that the present 35
hour woik week "may be reduced to
32J4 hours in the very near future."
Mr. Tell's reference to an agreement
is not denied v cry strongly by the strik
ers, but Representative Adams of the
Machinists' union winks the other ee
and hints of an understanding that was
reached between the company and a
committee of the strikers which was af
terward ratified at a special meeting of
these employes.
POSTAL SAVINGS INCREASE.
Kansas City, Mo. In an address be
fore the American Bankers' Association,
Carter B. Keene, of Washington, direc
tor of postal savings, reviewed the re
markable growth of the system during
the five ears of its operation.
Since July 1. 1013, deposits have in
creased, he said, from $34,000,000 to ap
proximately $100,000,000, and the num
ber of depositors from 331,000 to G25.000.
As evidence of the rapidity with which
postal savings is gaining in favor in this
country, Mr. Keene compared the gains
this ear with last, showing that the net
gain in June, 1015, in round numbers,
was $1,000,000, as against $3,800,000 last
June, while August, 1015, netted only
$1,000,000, as compared with $5,000,000
for the past August.
-M
T
1
-V,
