THE MOAN OF THE TIBER, St?
" " vc shall publish a thnllingly intcrxsting story ly
Mr. Vhtlpht. tntit!td"TU Moan of The Tiber." and dealing with the H..O. G. S. the "Ro
man Catholic Slave Pen Sundries. It is a powerful tale, loU and true to existing conditions, yet
fascinating and rich in love and human interest and will delight all readers. This story will be
followed in The Menace by Mr. Phelps' GR1-ATKST ANTI-PAPAL NOVliL, dcalin- with
THK DAYS OP LUTHKR AND THK R liPO R M ATI O N.
This I Number 286
NACE
Oct ! 14, ltl
TheMb
SB
THK ROMAN CATHOLIC POLITICAL MACHINK; THK Dl-ADLIKST M KNACK TO KRKK INSTITUTIONS AND LIHKRTY !
ROME'S PRETENSE AND PRACTICE UNDER
Actual Practice and Conditions in Massachusetts and Louisiana Belie Rome's Constant Denials
C Dl!l!..l A X!. " J. . I . m mm. m
ui i-uniicdi Munviiy ana ner coast ot being a Great IV oral Teacher
RAY
lit aUi Ufc
BAY STATE DEMOCRACY IS ROMANIZED!
ator-Tcn Out and Out Papist Candidates for Congress With Butl
Four Dependable Americans-American Majority in Massachusetts!
Should Have Something to Say About This
i!l lo removed nml t la- funda
mental, of uur rrimifiit in that
lugaw win id a measure I- jle-
guarded.
Popery Captures Entire State ticket from Governor to United States Sen-! Tm.S?SJ,!If,'r?i,,,.
-it.ini j'i.hv in Hie .iuics i-
l'av laic w lu ( In r Rome hhi U.J.
mil it fir not.
All I li encrgv of Rome, nt!i
boiiud organialiou. was broiig:i! o
Uur in 1911 to defeat fur minima-
I I. .11 lu.. . .......I.nr- ..t ll... I t.l
the nii-hly fallrntr In the fir.t place . will dis.-ui.v liemisc it would enforc: the 1 1 ..rtv wl... had , h,inii.,..cl it
tranquilly over the l I i.l.lin Hand" of : i 1.. .1 n i.. ...i,r. ,i,,.i. ..( . i.,,r. I. ...n i i... . .
, ,, - " t . ... J I . - I IUII. Ill UIIICIIHMICIII,
dipt under the soothing as- at work while hugei.e Fuss was gov. slalc. is prol.al.lv one i.f the .l,i.-f ii,u. w,.. i!. fu. t 1I...1 .7 .". r
Vlllll docs lint Wst til ll llgloll
lit of Julllin lilost Mlllllv I III-
pha-icd.
! It was then that Mil author if
( national reputation, a paid contnh
! i.tnr I" leading magainc. ,inl m-ii-
iui 'lulling three lUstou
giv nig
III the
ill
0V arc
While American
LOUISIANA'S HOTHOUSE OF IMMORALITY
Under the Acid Test of Experience Rome's Boasted Parochial and Religious
Training Has Failed to Produce Desirable Results-New Orleans Has
for Centuries Been Dominated by Roman Catholicism and Has the
Largest Vice Area of Any City in the United States
suraiicc
oi laniinai ami 1 1 ru.r of .Mas.n mum-in. fn.ni I'ltu
liiight that the hierarchy m not ! to !t. It wmhcu that the po
in politics in the lan-1 ui the I'll-1 litii-nl l,'oiiiaiii.H tlmu-'li Ulnml the
jk f ir, -id ttain rF II' n t 1
Molrn thrir birthri'lit a to f"ii-t
iiNti-allv a f-lrailit I.'onian tiilrt
upiii inie or the prrnt pi'litiiai
jmrtio. Will the patriot of Ma
mi liiix tf (.ubmit I ) thii outran?
hhall have tlx-ir ancr in
XmrnilH-r.
When linnojt IVmoi-rats pi to tin
Maa hum-tti poll, they v ill fin-1
tlm following lionian i'utliolic- tiikct
printeil hrre the IVwiiN-ratic tuki-t
hoiihl be: for pivernor. V. V.
MaiiKtirlJ, papiot and Knight .f Co.
hitnhu; fur lieutenant piiernor, T.
1. Kiley, papiht; for rtatc treasurer,
II. N Teaguc, papist; fur Mate
ninlitor, J. B. N. Sulliere, pait;
lor attorney pneral, J. J. lVumhiie,
1apiM; for wrrtary of Mute. Ij. It.
Ap-ii, )apit ; for V. S. heimtor, J.
F. Fitzgerald, papist. ( cvnre
Home U not in politic!
In (on conjrrefisiona! ilUtriets the
fumlaniental lH-moerat will timl the
name of hh-Ii paoat Mi1je t
Timothy Collin, I". M. t 'minor.
Mii-hael Seanlon, Miihael I'helan,
iVter Tafue, Ililiernian llojan,
nul Mickey Murphy, to ay nothing
of the notorious James A. Gallivnn,
all masquerading a Democratic
(ati'liilatt-s for the national lioue
t-f representatives where thev hope
to wrvc their blesfuvl jioc W the
diversion of public fundi to papal
jurjoe and the enactment of imi
Antrrican lavs.
What a dose the Rmnan toliliral
machine has here concealed fur true
Americans! Will the pen nine Dem
rx rat of Massachusetts swallow it?
We think not. A pwd majority of
Massaeluwtts voters are yet free
from allegiance to the p.ipnl sovcr
rign who command the feriiec of
these candidates. It will take non
papist votes to cleit this pilaxy of
apal satellites: and we have too
imich faith in this free majority to
think that it can be so prostituted.
The coming November is the time
of all times to determine who rule
Massachusetts the people of that
Mate, or the pope of Rome. It will
ho a (Turd an cxcullcnt opportunity
to discover whether the pope's over
prown cardinal can dc-oy Mas:i
chusetts domocracy to dclruction
In the pitfall of papal politics.
This whole aggregation of liv
phenates, lined up on the olli.-inl
ballot to Uomanie MassaclniMK' t
atate government, are ns niucii alike
s the several peas in a gTcen mhI.
All have kissed the blarney-stone
and never mis an opmrtunity to
perpetrate orations setting fortli the
glories of Rome and the failure of
American civilization, (iallivan ha
distinguished, himself already in
congress in alt varieties of papM
activities from press-mu77le b-gisla-timi
and denial of the Philippines'
right to independence to efforts at
fomenting war with Mexico and
Great Britain.
It would indeed be utter fully for
ilasachuetts to consider for one
moment jrivinff to any of these per
son tlie positions or prestige they
eek. Viewed in the light of the
recent history of papal control in
the Bay state it would seem thit no
thoughtful pcron not interested in
advancing the temporal power of
the pope could lend support to
thetie candidate who seek election
on the democratic platform.
The fundamental Iuut
Let us consider for a moment
what that recent history has been.
riioii why Inline miioii .
gam inliial touind if Mu-.-u. liu
m ll.
In tlii- i oiiiKitioii it uill .f re--iicuilM-rcd
Hint Iii.inmi l.'i.inaiii't
l;it April iudulgi'd in on.' of tin
t disu'tiu i ful riot- at Haverhill m!ii nl
.1-1.1 M .. . I...
wiiiui iiie.iiii.is 1. 1 n,e hn-ran hv i iluilv paM-r-. wmte n litter
lilive ever llttilll.(ii when Tllos. I'-'rnison whv. . u Mli,-i..r
(iiiiiiiiii er tuiiiii in cviiieiHT.
I he Ineran hv, a is always the ease,
very nun h de-ired the patronage of
the courts unl it Ma tiovernor Ko
who, though apparently imlcicnd
i nt of pupal control. nptoiiitcl
i .cm ii oui oi u.irtiru jiiMges Iroin H-v.lcn nuivlit t.i sH ak in that citv lunda ntal deuuwracv of the fa.
the rank of the pupal contingent ; i in fav..r of ihi. imii-udiiieul and our thcrs. he favored the" ihiicimIiu. i,l
hini liu in i-piK' ol the tai t thatilnvi
.iliissHi iniM'tts i overw helmingly
I'lole.-taiit and that all of the great-
et eilucatimial in-tituliun of
to
Kni
Hlioi.i, ninl it l.s iM-rfivllv sale
miv that thce Mime 1 u.oioi
of
:ht
i.nd ili-np)Toeil of the eloot-. to
defeat these llhlinlili-rs of lioll 11-
Colun. bus ami other tHriaiiisin. The htt.-r was ti in ih r-
institution of New i lroi of the hierari liv will ..t.- ni. nn.l . .r.-f.,!!.- r. f I i
I iigland, from Harvard down. anMlidlv for this Roman Catholic 1 unv atinek. .Iir.vt or ....l...i ....
Runic sol ticket that i tmlav ina-aiierailiinr nnv elmn h. ihoii.'li st imliii..
i Iv for the demoiralic llieorv,
In MUM Xl ( 1W Mralfr, lai
f S.lriwfcr 11,1 r 4rf4 itev
iimU mn4 lll qmrnifm. -his :i
MS 1HOIIC Mllll.HMi 1MSIN
IM. MOI. OH MllHSIItt OK I HIS
INAIIM ." Am4 ! thai w ntlr4 m
liwult iiivfW ml iKv iRnI l llii
liainliiy III iim .laiim mi
lal ! Nt mh M liiffM In lK a.ticl
lllllr. llt Ibum thmt IIimIi
Ifc K.ia t aillir bwjhiIiimii In iNv
I si Srw mtk .kl. m
Ihaa env-tni'd ilir vnliiv n.iiiUii. m
IS ibi plviilMlir llivlr M a K.MII
I aihwli MafBril. irraUf faf lliaii
Ih l'rllMl. Ilfiv) mt4 all aiart
claaa raia.Nr4.
la laia Imm gi aai ifrf la
alnr aaall liaatraali raari! Illaa
lialiaa af la frail af lana caralMat
ml aWailnaac af kaiaaa taihalM rl.gMaa
Iralnlng aaaVr aar .la. A.i4 lli a
aul laa a alara ( akam ail aa aiarl
ling aa4 alaala aairll aa thai Htaa
l. ill aflicial aiMaa aiatiaiira al .Nia
lie iSTiueiirv In 1 1. 1 1 111 Mifieil.ir re
stt lor l.i mid I .t ! t y for It-uii.in
(ut!ion. .mil hihv the New Yoik
1 . -ineiiln.il liu- I,'. .111.111 Culholi.
-ii baa eoiilinueil ll ilioin oi
lM.:.lnig lel.it Hi' to tlie la tietii-irl
llll u the 1 ins.- i.f tin l .1 1 1 1
l.'olll.lll t 'lllliolli' l.lll. jlloll ;.nd ll -
lignnis I t.iiinii.
I', th.iii iio!iiii ala.ut the ICni.tn
hu r.ir. hv in is 1. I. id. mi to tli.' --I-II- I
of that (hnraiter whieh
little admire-. In the fai of sin h
fact 110 sane person can conclude
that any Protestant governor i-ould
-i would npMiint, without a va.st
r.inoiint of miNiile pressure hein
brought to U-ar, sin Ii an arrav of
li'oinish judges. Pulitirnl aca.)rnl.
i-f Ikit itatitrr art not rrcorJril in
uur.v. Acts .f this kind are
... 1 .
iiliiler llie 1 Ii-uiim ratle Inline.
Si long as Rome wars on OR-'one
tiANIC LAW and seek to injit
her inonart hiul. pupul tlu-orie into
...ll .....fir. it. . .1 'I.. . .1.
v'-iiiiiiii in, nn.l p.-v un- s i iui ' i nisi 1 ill m 01 inp sin ee 01 III.'
1. . t . 1 .1 . .
.a.i.is 101 11. r or-iiMiuuoil, ine oliiv , lori In prevent tree illsi-ussiini
-llV
lailv. "The Christian Sieiiev!
Monitor." would publish this letter.
'I hi incident is Mrii-tlv tvpiiai inel
if-
. 1
ol
1
way ossili,e to keep mi tariun- J fundamental dciuoi rntii-; proportion,
ism oui 01 our L'oveinnient nml to , whu h nm n t w i tit l ie im itnn mn
iil. preserve our free iiistitutions is t,. I.lti.nw ..f il... . In r. I. ..r I?, ii...
pionineu niui cxeeut.H with a great keep Koiiun Catholics oui of office, republic todav
leal of consideration and u caution
wtighing of the effect to be pro
duiinl. It is believed, however, that in
the bitter davs of hi term of ollii-e
Mr. Foss became keenly aware of
I lie true nature of the political m
(ivities of Rome, for it will lie re
membered that when the baiupiel
was tendered President Taft in Bos
on the seat next to the president
was demanded for Cardinal O'Con
rcll on the plea that a a "Prince of
the Church" be wa entitled to
1 icccilenec over the governor of the
lomnionwealth.
Mr. I'osS rosenled tlii nrrninnl
rmiiniptioii and tcfiisisl to atten I j
tin baiupiet. an act which cost him
his popularity in Komau circle. and !
since then he has not been in fuvo'1
'villi the Roman Cathojie electorate, i
1 11 the focond pbii-c, having n-(
(iircl by the well-known papal
met boils' the cunt ml of the llemo-
rale iniubino of Massachusetts.
Home seen 1 cd the nomination and
elect ion of n Detnneratic slat, all
the nominees of which with two cx
options, were Rotnmilts. Many of
the candidates, including the gov
ernor and lieutenant-governor, were
pioininent Knights of Columous.
This tiikct was rc-nominated with
Ci vernor Walsh at the head in 1911.
However, it was not until this year
that Rome luiaine bold enough
10 ptaic a ticket in the field, so
nearly llonian in its entirety as to
aniHzc even those who are acquainted i
wiui papal pia.tue. Jlnnk or it,
seventeen candidates on the con
gressional and state ticket with
out, taking into consideration those
iiiiiing for the general assembly!!
We can hardly agree with "Primr"!
O'Coiincll' declaration that Rome;
is not in politjes when bis own sue-j
cs in plHring- such' an array of pn
litts on a single ticket sV utterly
Iclici his statement. "
Financial Favors at Stake '
It should alo be remembered that !
Rome has mneh at etako in Massj.j
cbiisclfi by reason of the proposed
constitutional amei.dimiit whieh
would forever make imoih!e in
that commonwealth tlie appropria
tion of public funds for teetatian
institution.. .Rome has of late vears
secured financial patronage for'sueh!
institution! aa tarney hospital, and
well known representative of the
hicranhy have claimed that Rome
should have a division of the public
school funds. Tlie abore mentioned
amendment whieii is so riul to the
fundamentals ef our liberal dcinuo
So h'H2 as the nuiendmeiit nrohih.
iting the state from appropriating
public fund for sectarian institu
tions remain uniiased. so lonir.
Massachusetts ha a leal iiie be
fore her tlii year. hikI it i for hei
citieus to sav whether this great
i oinnionvveuii ii snail r iii,iin a n ,ie
and longer for that tnatUr. will of mIum.N, maiki-l by general in'
Rome endeavor to gain eonftol of telligenee, prosM-niy and inleiloit
the eoninioiiwealth or M.iss.iehu-j ual hospitaliiv ; or L-imiie a Ronian
fctt. but with such an amendment I izeil state marked by iunoraine. in
ns a law one of tie grave danger j tolerance, and allegiance to a for
menacing to our free institutions u ign sovereignty.
Mi! leiiiit convention if liiel
.... r. I r '.
" , " I Mils
Ciitiiolic Sieietn-s III ' liilt
lork was largelv civcii imr
to sclf-'lorilii atioii. I'ioiii i .iiiliii.il
and l.isliops ilow'ii to lay "knights"'
tt nil "ancient-." the ihiun of sii-H-iior
"n-siil f-T l.i," "ballv"
'and "inoialitv" for Roin.iu Cath
olics va Imldlv iiinl H'isiseullv
Cllphaseil.
Thrir furnrlii'it onil rr'i'iiout
tnliniri'J Hire ( ('' hi Ilir Inn
jniniirii fur rial or i'iockkiv i"
illrt ililintrri Unit loiifrmil thr fr-
'. C.inliiiiil I I I 'an i in ll. even
haiui lii f ctiii le of lin
criinitu law Ics-nrs and
iihIhm r;i. v ol last April ut Haver
hill, M.i-.. indulged in by over
noo faithful son of his own nrch
dioccsc staling him in the face, had
i ml public i so sinking or reiuaik
iii.le us it olViisitelv exaggerated
i 1.. t in for s i-rnr nioralitv and re-
si I for law and onlei. unli-- it
I- the Hstiiiiinlilig a liir n, r of lhr'
irni limnI 11 i. .-I'i,u n ulirwi rr u r
"'.'' ' "' f iif'oiii or ol
with the
piilallcleil
SPEAKING OF RELIGIOUS PREJUDICE!
" Wc are not guilty of an injustice w hen we declare that a prime object with many Prot
estant mivsionaries is to discredit the Catholic church. To attain that end they will pot
scruple at lies. W'e will never forget the wholesale lying in which they indulged ut the Pana
ma Congress when they insulted the entire woinanliool of South America."
These are virtually the worth of Cardinal O'Connell. since they appear on the editorial
page of his official oran. the Boston Pilot of September 23rd. One naturally wonders how
self.respectirg Protestants enjoy such vituperation from a prince of the napacy. Such out
bursts from official Rome must be rather disconcerting to those ultra loving Protestants who
criticise The Menace because of its plain language, and who go out of their way to apologize
for popery.
ARE MANY PROTESTANT MISSIONARIES DEFAMERS AND LIARS? DID PROT
ESTANT MISSIONARIES USE THE PANAMA CONGRESS AS A MEANS OF INSULTING
THE ENTIRE WOMANHOOD OF SOUTH AMERICA? They either did, or they did not.
WHAT HAVE THEY AND THE PROTESTANT PRESS TO SAY ABOUT IT? Will they
maintain silence in the face of such chargea-TO AVOID EXCITING "RELIGIOUS PREJU
DICE?" v
Papists are horribly outraged when the patriotic press mentions such convicted criminals
aa Priest Ulrich ; but this organ of the Irish-American cardinal insults Protestant mission
aries and thereby wins the approval of those pseudo-Protestants who love popery and hate
the patriotic press.
We should like to have our readers call the attention of every Protestant publication in
the United States to this characteristic snarl of the Boston cardinal's official organ, and to
ask each Protestant editor what the effect of such reckless attempts to stir up religious preju.
dice must be on the average papist mind? WILL THAT SORT OF THING ALLAY THE
PREJUDICE WE HEAR SO MUCH ABOUT? Will such sweeping, false, and intemperate
charges, made by a high representative of the pope, promote good will among papists and
Protestants?
Perhaps Cardinal O'Connell felt justified in permitting this characteristic example of Ro
man Catholic intolerance and unreasoning prejudice to go forth and further poison the minds
of the Catholic laymen because he had beKne him the recent example of the same reckless
spirit of intolerance and disregard for truth in the notable utterances of the present pope.
On the 21st of last November, Pope Bincdict XV addressed the Society for the Preser
vation of the Faith in-Rome, land on that occasion according to the Boston Pilot's verbatim
report of this speech as published in its issoejof December 25th, the pope thus refers to the
scholarly, God-fearing ministers of the Baptist. Methodist, Presbyterian and Lutheran
churches who have been sent over from America to preach and teach in Rome:
"What is it that these emissaries of Satan lo who io the midst of the Holy Ciy raie tem
ples, within which, the true worship is denied. to (Iml, who establish pestilential 'hairs for the
s.pi'-hd of error in the midst of the people, and who, with full hands, scatter broadcast lie
and calumnies against the Catholic religion and its ministers;. Thcs: diabolical arts arc so
many assaults against the children of Rome."
The pope continued by declaring that "the conspiracy of these thieves should be de
stroyed." It would be impossible to find stronger or more convincing evidence of the shallow and
hypocritically insincere Jesuitical character of Messrs. Scott and Callahan's committee on
"religious prejudice" than is here shown in the recently published words in the personal
organ of Cardinal O'Connell. and in the uttiances of the present pope, who to all loyal Cath
olics atanda in the place of God on earth. .Verily, verily, the pretenses and the practices of
Rome braienly contradict themselves at every turn.
Is pieii-clv whv l.'nitic ih inaii'l
sho Ih' m i eple.l at llTovtl face
viil'ie while iniiigiianliv rc-enting
any siiL.'estioiiji that her clailils lie
brought la-fore the bar of impartial
investigation where thev inav U-iiii.N-ily
cxniiiiin-il in the light uf
historic fad.
Sime Rome shr.iiks from niccl
In the issue in tin .1. tn.ir.itii- wav.
it remain lor nil fm-ndsof free in
stitution iiii-l lilM-r.nl democrat v 1 i
In the n tli- of Oi tolicr and Ko
vimlja-r, III I"., an evlmuslivc invest
ignliou of .Vw Orleans was mail
uii.h r the auspices cf the. Citizens'
league of Ihiiiiui, assisted by the
liitcriiaiioiial liYform It urea a of
Washington, l. C. The results ai
iiiIi mIu-I in the rcjiort were of so
rlaitlmg and serious a character
li.at I he hurcaii detailed extra ex
li-i I. .i i.iiilirm he findings before
I he orgaiii.'.itiuii gave it to the pub
lic. Gambling, Drink and Social Evil
In the New Orleans Amrr'unn for
(January l., RUr,. the findings of
! this TctKirt were given in an ex
ii-inled paper from which it is shown
that that trinity of moral derada
I mil. gambling, drink, and the social
ivil are appallingly blighting the
i ity'.s life, -nun times in defiance of
lew. sometimes in connivance of
luw-cii fon nig public servants, ami
sometime li-cause of the absence of
proper rcstriitive legislation.
t. 'ambling, since Hto, ha, at in
terval lceii the suhj.it of much
cgisi.-iiion. one io me general tn-
; tion-v i!e ji.-iIh! ion ami education
place mer against n-r trailer me
tense tlie fads us sh.oi n m cm-1. ""' commissioners found in their
cieie and Ivpnal cases. I investigation that thc-e ststute
In our ten-tit esamiiiatixii ofuor'' Ih'"'R flouted, and outliwed
Rome il.n'in that lu r religion. , gambling machine, weru in active
tiaining was needed in pr.anote ; ' Il lation in various parts of tin)
law-abiding citizenship, we went to !"'' """ 'if i-rt'J-f.it mch
the slate prisons of New Yoik in briny ufxmtril on a row
order to sc. whether the exalted I " ' i m n ii -.I. Though
Ihiiii f..r parochial and Roman ! lotteries since 1MI are outlawed.
l-a. i t.l. am a
i was imitiii that ralllo wlu-cl ami
i lock. a well a faro and roulette,
were in ojieintion during November.
On the subject of .krr playing, the
coinniiaioner re..rts according to
the .1 mmtan that :
NVw Orli-ana i one r( tlie frw cities
in tlie I'lntr.l Slates where I hi' tourist can.
n RamliliiiK wuh itiip or money con-liiru-.l
oih'dIv an.l lawfully sexen dav
in t liu wrc-k.
'1 here are in New- Orleans alxiut
?.'()( bar, and if. as the Amtriian
kiiiiIs out, the daily receipts of these
j -ahum are uvkoneu at the low
, average of $;'0 dollar each, it would
; age ''Vale $1 l.ooi) a day or $10,000-
I lilill a ViTr. The li' riVii in rrs.
the exact I fi-inny to tins Mst MJtu worse than
v ainoiic iiaiuiug wa iHitne out in
the prioii statistics, which in tlm't
event of ciur-e w.ml.l how a verv
in.ill iH-nentase of Koiii.-iu t ath
loin in the slate n'niti-iitiarics.
However, it will be rciuc inhered
'that though Rome was represented
i hv less than one-third the entire
ieitieiiship throughout the state; in
Ihe H-nileiitiarv the l.'oiuan Cath
olics were hugely in tin- mijoriiv.
allowing (hat she had a t reni.-udoiis
j rexinilciaiice of i:.!it in tin cnni
iual Nipulatiou. Now we wi-!i I i
I give our readeis .-uioihcr c.nerel-
'xainpli of the fruit of li'oniau
((iill.on- training. Ilcie again we
; v ill sec that the fad
oer0 ol the linli-ii-.s uf l,. l.r
I'lchv.
An Ancient R. C. Stronghold
Si n li Inn ' far li n k Io ll nt.-
ointiiiil in'iiihI New- Orleans has
I-en under the ih-minaui c of the
I.'oiii.iii Catholic cliunli. (it-tii-ia-
lions have Ih-Cii Ihiiii, have M.-arilv
.-iss,., ,i,.r the -tage ol' life an-l
di-:iia-!Ui,l. Kl.une. Sjiain. our
ii piililn- and Imgl.uid have ( laiim-d
f i struggled lor isscssj,.ti
' lic-ll Cltx of the ssonllilainl
under all the various ilags that have ! Is
nhln- buildings.'
R 'in iii Catlmli- i
I !
floated from bet
i ihe dominance of
"plundered in drink in the city,
;i V s ;
'Ih.a is nearly l.alf tin -l.iie'n annual
I iii.ir bill, (.ii.nuo.OOOV. hut it il'e not
iihIii.Ii the rrsntjM(. iau jn-rism, in;in't-,
an I tiiine. The -limk traffic i iin.lonht
r.llv liu- rity' limvii-t nnll'.riul l.iir.lra.
Mow are Sunday laws observed
in this "most Catholic citv of Amcr-
iica:'' On this pohit the commis
js'oner's report as given in the
Xiuer'n nn i n rollout-
of lllis- . .. . t ... . ,.,.,.,-. ,h. ,l.;
'Ill 1 Sun. lav nf mil .!..... an.l !.... Tk.l
Hi mTt-rllv vioU'cl that Jilifffnt
"nr- h fail.. .lisclost. a saloon which
ol.ene-l it. llim.'ver, all saloon, lika
. . . .'...a. . ....... ui. a.in . ...iii aim .1 ran...
cisni as lie m.ist,r re igVn or ore-' -i . . ' ' ' . . ' ,
, . . I , . n. in-n nn Sninlura to conceal
, ioininjtllig U-Iieioiis intla. n.e ha.-; ih- unlawful art. within. At a Urroom
. lem.iined. In sui h 11 dcgric. tint New nmr the Irrnnnal tnticin there met two
, Oilcan often." and tilnuhtli verv .'" '"'V"."" .la.-c-. in front of the
j ln.lv. ha, lavn leimed the most ' '"I"" '" "" irnrrea.ai.,n that
I Caiho T.- e.tv in Am.-ri, , ! ''" OB Sun,I-v-
: Other eilu-s. wjg Io the .,-t ...-! . ,l M,n"' ,",,v,Mr. -om9
dux of immigrstion ftom old world ! ,a," lo f;"T.?"!' 1 ' wv,a' tl,at
! l.'oman C.iholi. lands. h.,ve Ih cine ! .'"T of a!' l'r"'eter of the moral
vominanllv Catholic or t-. ! mor-1 ','",,,h, or ,,S'"',"' "f a commun-
acrate I,m- fVU n i.n-l.-i ,. ''V. that this great stronghold of
! blighting influi i,.,- of the R,,,., J ,',:n,a, thhcistn aps-a.s in it
'Catholic pol"nJ ma. bine. ;ut "t appa,.i.,g light.
su.ii j. not th condition that ha! Where Vice It Rampant
obtained in New Orleans Here
: Roman Catholicism fas bet n in
digenous and ha- remained domt
1 naot.
Here, therefore, as nowhere els"
, in our (tinimouwealths can we best
j judge the fruit of Roman Catholic
j r licions training an.t ."H-e the cITei-t
in the moral life, or the city. .
Now what dci the Lets reveal:
Mere tk i-nra! leproxi that k&i
rnlf,l if ioniii cf cititf. rial ions
nnJ riii'iMluiin sm- thr i;jv af
! .'.in ,th. lioumrrnh is more im-
ri-ny an- nuc'..'v in rri.Uncf ta
it. iy othtr Amrrican fi.'y.
This citv of New Orleans this
throne room of Roman Catholicism,
C xrtinHpxl.pn Vigt 2, Columu 2).
I
