THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 180.
I3AKHK, VERMONT, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
FRENCH WON
GROUND BACK
Had Been Expelled from a
Part of the Village of
Albaincourt
GERMANS DELIVERED
A STRONG ATTACK
IMPROVING IN MARKSMANSHIP.
French Immediately Coun
tered and Recovered
All the Ground
Paris, Oct. 14. The Germans delivered
a strong attack last night on Ablain
court, south of the Somme river, and re
ocupied a part of the village, as well as
the trenches northwest of it, it was offi
cially announced to-day. The Fren
immediately launched a eountcr-atta-
By this move they re-captured all the
ground which had been won by the Ger
mans. North of the Somme the French
made progress on Malassisse ridge north
of Bonchavesnes.
nan
ack.
PREDICTS RUMANIA'S KALI.
King Constantine of Greece Gives Little
Nation 15 Days.
London, Oct. 14. "When a high diplo
matic personage besought King Constan
tine to change his policy," says the Daily
Telegraph's Athens correspondent, "the
king replied:
" 'I prefer to lose my throne rather
than endanger Greece. I am convinced
that in 15 days Rumania will exist no
more. If Greece went into the war then,
after the conquest of Rumania, the irre
sistible German forces would be directed
Against Greece and she would share tlfe
fate of Serbia and Rumania.'"
London, Oct. 14. According to Athens
de-spatdios the entente allies sent their
ultimatum to Greece because they had
unearthed a royalist plot to fight the
-entente. It was planned, the despatches
add. that if the allies should seek to
coerce Greece into joining the war and
try to force Kliptherios Venizelos on
King Constantine, the king should retire
northward along the railway, taking the
troops with him, and concentrate at Tri
kala, in Thessaly, and lie entrenched
there until the arrival of the German
army, when he would strike in unison
with them at the allies.
BOSTON MAN HURT
ON FRENCH FRONT
Norman Prince, Recently Decorated for
Distinguished Service, Had Both Legs
Broken, but His Condition
Is Satisfactory.
Faris, Oct. 14. Norman Prince of Bos
ton, sergeant-major in the Franco-American
aviation corps, who was decorated
for distinguished services last week, has
been wounded. Both Prince's legs are
broken, but his condition is reported as
satisfactory.
U. S. Cavalry Regiments in Mexico Are
Bettered By "Fire Control" Drills.
Field Headquarters", American punitive
expedition in Mexico, Oct. 14. '"Fire con
trol" drills, which in a month's time
have increased the effectiveness of cav
alry regiments' tire 100 per cent, are im
portant factors in the tield maneuvers
being held by the American punitive ex
pedition. Far from being a period of
stagnation for the expeditionary troops,
the hiatus during the last few months in
the pursuit of Villa has been of almost
inestimable benefit to them, particularly
to the mounted arm. It has given com
manding officers opportunities to handle
larger bodies of men under conditions
more nearly akin to those of war than
have obtained at any time since the past
50 vears.
The maneuvers, which are varied, pro
gressive and in accordance with well de
fined plans, include such simple exercises
as horse training and ascend to solving
of warfare problems that involve the
handling of brigades. Fire control, al
though classed among the elementary
exercises, is virtually new to the cavalry,
although the infantry has been working
on it for several years.
Pamphlets issued bv the school of mus
ketry fire at Fort Sill, Okla., have been
furnished officers and problems they con
tain in skeleton form are amplified and
worked out. Exercises suggested in these
pamphlets also are being tried out and
suggestions for improvement, resulting
from actual practice, are being noted.
Recommendations bv regimental officers
are being studied by Gen. J. .T. Fershing
and his chief of staff. Col. Dp R. C. Ca
bell, and those considered worthwhile
re being incorporated in tentative man
uals.
Studying developments of the Euro
pean war. and realizing that, under mod- I
em conditions of warfare, cavalry does
most of its fighting on foot, commanders
of that arm of the service are giving
their troops a great deal of dismounted
work, paying particular attention to at
tack. In this connection it is noticeable
that the ringing bugle no longer sounds
the charge, for every maneuver is made
by signal. Save for the tramp of hoofs
and the leather-softened rattle of equip
ment, troop movement's are made silent
ly, not a voice being raised in command.
When a problem prepared by the com
manding general or his taff, is given out,
an observer accompanies each of thp op
posing leaders and an umpire watches
the operations. After each mimic com
bat, a critique is held. Tactical errors
observed are pointed out and suggestions
made relative to better maneuvers that
might have been employed.
Full advantage is being taken of the
fact that there are four regiments of
cavalry at headquarters camp, a circum
stance without parallel in army annals
for years. All the regiments being used,
it also is observed, are beinrr maneuvered
at full war strength as provided under
the new army reorganization bill. This
affords the first opportunity' American
commanders have had of handling troops
of this size in maneuvers.
The war game will reach a climax
when the maneuvers progress to the
point where every fighting man available
will be marched against an imaginary
enemy under conditions that almost ap
proximate real war.
Drilled from six to eight hours a day
and performing duties which, if not car
ried out, might turn a healthy camp into
a dangerous one, the expedition thus far
has not stagnated. v
SAW A CHASE
BY SUBMARINE
RECTOR WILSON WINS.
Bovic Passengers Said War
Vessel Was Pursuing Dan
ish Passenger Ship
A MILE ASTERN
WHEN LAST SEEN
The Endangered Hollig Olav
Left New York for Co
penhagen Thursday-
New York, Oct. 14. When the White
Star freighter Bovic. sighted a submarine
in the Atlantic yesterday morning, she
was apparently in pursuit of the Danish
passenger ship Hallig Olav, according to
observers on the deck of the Bovic, which
arrived here to-day. The. nationality of
the submarine was not established.
The Bovic, in fear of an attack be-
cause of being a freighter, put on full
speed and headed directly west. When
she passed out of sight of the other two
vessels, the Olav still secerned to be en
deavoring to escape the submarine. The
submarine was about a mile astern. The
Olav left New York Thursdayq for Co
penhagen and Scandinavian ports and car
ried many Americans.
Wilson and Miss John
I when he heard of the
STEAMERS ZIGZAG
OVER OCEAN COURSE
In Order to Elude the German Submarine,
Which May Be Lurking
Off Nantucket.
New York, Oct. 14. The largest fleet
of steamships that has left this port
since the submarine raid off Nantucket
Sundny is due to sail to-dav, while. Unit
ed States destroyers arc hunting along
the Atlantic coast for the secret German
submarine base. Incoming and outgoing
ships pursued a zigzag course far off
their usual routes to elude the U-53,
which, for all thev knew, might still lie
lurking off Nantucket. Thirteen steam
ers are also due to-day from European
ports.
MAY SEIZE SHIPS
IN NEUTRAL PORTS
In Order to Pay for Shipping Which Ger
man War Vessels May Sink Many
German Ships Interned.
ACCUSES RUMANIANS.
Of Atrocities and Violation ofntema
tional Law.
Berlin, via wireless, Oct. 14. An offi-.
rial statement from Austro-Hungarian
authorities charges violations of inter
national law and atrocities against the
Rumanians in Transylvania, according to
the Overseas.
DIDN'T BELIEVE WARNING.
Says Malone Replying to Hughes' State
ment on Lusitania Case.
Rochester, N. Y." Oct. 14. Dudley Field
Malone, collector of the port of New
York, in a formal statement given out
hero last night ' took issue with state
ments made by Charles E. Hughes, Re
publican candidate for president, at Lou
isville on Thursday in connection with
the sinking of the Lusitania.
"When the notice was published," Mr.
Malone said, "threatening the sinking of j
the Lusitania, Mr. Hughes said he would
have threatened Germany with, severance
of diplomatic relations. The notice was
published anonymously in certain New
York papers and merely olgned with the
aords 'German embassy.' It was pub
lished on the Friday morning before the
Saturday the Lusitania sailed. No pas
sengers booked for the Lusitania not
even personal friends of the German em
bassador placed any credence in this
anonymous communication."
He declared that Mr. Hughes as pres
ident could npt have protested against an
unforeseen event merely on the basis of
an anonymous advertisement in- the
newspapers.
Mr. Malone also said that in a per
sonal conversation with Justice Hughes
. . 1 .1.. - 1 nt fn..V ,-. Urn I
in n .1 u t lit" t-IIU VI .-ii ninb iviu uiuuiii.
of the present administration he had been
told by Mr. Hughes in discussing the ad
ministration's difficulties that: "The
president is doing magnificently." r
A Sign of the Military Situation.
The allied campaign against the Cen
tral empires has moved by a series of
surges or onsets, interspersed with peri
ods of quiescence, ever since it took on
its new development after the great en
couragement of Verdun. On the western
front we are now in one of these periods
of measurable pause. There is fighting,
there is ground gained; but it is not a
moment of such grinding and furious
pressure as that .which resulted in the
capture of Combles and Theipval: The
reason is plain enough. As the main de
pendence of the party of the offensive is
its guns, both heavy and light, it is
necessary after each expenditure of max
imum energy, resulting i na considerable
advance, to establish a new footing for
the artillery. The movements of a great
army under present conditions of war
fare may be compared with those of a
big "measuring worm," which humps it
self along from one foothold to another,
and which must place its hinder feet be
fore it can measure its forward length
again. The moBt instructive fact about
the situation, both in France and in
Galicia and Volhynia, is that the only j
means of successful resistance on the
London, Oct. 14. Neutral nations have
offered the suggestion that they use the
German ships interned in their ports to
compensate them fur submarine losses by
shipping, says a correspondent of The
Times.
Discussing the world shortage of ton
nage, the correspondent says: "In view
of the continued wanton destruction of
$3,625 Verdict for Breach of Promise Set
Aside,
Boston, Oct. 11. Judge Morton in the
United States district court yesterday
set as do the verdict of a jury which
after a trial before him some months
ago. awarded Miss Laura L. Johnson of
Minneapolis $.!,t2.r, on the ground tha
Rev. Charles Chase Wilson had broken
1'iis engagement to marry her,
The verdict was set aside on the mo
tion of the minister and on the ground
that the evidence did not establish thkt
there wii ' "ny engagement to marry
between
son.
The in'
decision :
"I am hanpv. it is a vindication
shall get injtouen with my attorneys, for
I am anxious to know the run report on
the matter. Further thun this I have
nothing to say."
Miss Johnson is believed to be at pres
ent in her home in Minneapolis. Ralph
Willard. her counsel, declined to com
ment upon the decision at present, and
said that until he consulted with Miss
Johnson he would be unable to say
whether or not there would be a new
trial of the case.
The judge in his decision said there
was no conclusive or unal evidence ot an
engagement and ne saw mat tne veruici
"must have been due to sympathy or
prejudice."
His decision waa an interesting com
ment on the cast. He said:
No engagement to marry between the
parties was publicly announced or gen
erally understood to exist among their
friends and acquaintances; there is no
evidence of any understanding that the
alleged engagement was to be kept se
cret, nor of any reason why it should
have been kept secret if it existed; there
is no evidence of any public conduct by
the parties from which an engagement
of marriage can be inferred ; there, is no
evidence that the alleged engagement
ever was referred to by the defendant in
the presence of a third person, or by any
third person in his presence; there is no
reference to it in writing by the defend
ant nor any letters indicating affection
from him to the plaintiff; her father and
mother never mentioned the alleged en
gagement to hin nor be to them.
"It seems very unlikely that an en
gagement of marriage, not understood
to tie secret, could hav; really existed,
without evidence of it at some of these
points. Moreover, besides this absence
of proof, the plaintiff's claim, both as
to the express and as to the implied en
gagement, is inconsistent with much in
the conduct of both parties that it was
clearly established, and with significant
facts 'which she herself testified to. Her
testimony as to the alleged engagement!
is direct and positive, but it is without i
substantial corroboration, is rendered im
probable by many facts and circum
stances, and is denied by the defendant.
"The weight of the evidence was so
clearly and overwhelmingly against the
plaintiff as to indicate that the verdict
in her favor must have been due to sym
pathy or prejudiee-ra danger which la
well recognized in cases of this character,
and has led in many jurisdictions to the
passage of statutes requiring corrobora
tion of the plaintiff's testimony. Such
statutes are in force in England and in
some of the United States, and In sev
eral of the Canadian provinces."
BOY THROWN
UNDER AUTO
Driver, Dr. J. M. Allen, Said
He Jumped in Front
of Machine
STATE WILL HOLD
INQUEST ON CASE
PRETTY WELL SHOT UP.
Simon Vermette, 15, the Vie
tim Near Lyndonville
Yesterday
St. Johnsbury, Oct. 14. Simon Ver
mette, the 15-year-old son of Mr. and
Mrs. Fred Vermette, was struck and in
stantly killed by an automobile owned
and operated by Dr. J. M. Allen near the
Morrill farm on the Lyndonville road yes
terday afternoon. ermette, who was
employed on the farm, and Leroy Brooks,
another farm hand, were on their way
to a pasture when Brooks heard the car
behind them.
There waa ample time to get out of the
way and he warned the boy, but for
some unknown reason the latter waited
until the car was almost upon them and
then jumped directly in front of it. One
of the lamps struck him and the car
passed completely over him.
Dr. C. A. Cranipton was called but
found life extinct. The state will con
duct an inquest to-day and an autopsy
11 be performed on the body by Dr.
B. H. Stone of Burlington.
ACCUSED MAN TELLS STORY.
George W, Duncan of Rutland Said Wife
Had Been Unfaithful.
Rutland, Oct. 14.-George W. Duncan,
accused of wife murder, took his witness
tand in his own defense in Rutland
county court yesterday and told his 6tory
substantially as follows:
My wife went to Plattsburg, N V,
for a visit and failed to write to me whilo '
But Lieut, James Brady is Ready for
More Fighting.
Lieut. James Brady, an aviator in the
French army, who is on a two months'
leave of absence after having been in tha
hospital for two months as the result of
muchino gun wounds, left Montpelier to.
day for New York City, where he will
sail on the Baltic to re-enter tha serv
ice. Lieut. Brady, who is a native of
Ihiblin, Ireland, lias been spending several
days in Barro and Montpelier visiting
with a school chum of his.
Lieut. Brady is deaf and practically
dumb as the result of being shot in the
left ear and in the neck but asserts that
his speech is gradually returning and
ne expects to be able to talk plainly with
in a few months. Ho also has innumer
able machine gun wounds on the legs and
arms and bears one scar four inches
above the heart to show where one buHet
nearly ended his life.
Although terribly handicapped by be
ing a mute, the soldier aviator recounted
some of his experiences to a group of in
terested listeners in a Montpelier restau
rant last evening. He enlisted early in
the war anil was attached 'to the 152
Vailieris aviation corps. At the battle
of Mons, Lieut. Brady was instrumental
in bringing to earth a Zeppelin and for
this he was given a lieutenancy and
awarded a medal by the French govern
ment. I he last few months of his serv
ice he had his headquarters at Verdun
fighting in that region.
He was enthusiastic about the French
machines, the Beriuett, and was confident
that the Germans could not beat the al
lied forces. Lieut. Bradv despite his
wounds, is a perfect physical specimen,
and he is anxious to get back to France
so that he may do his share to beat Ger
many.
Questioned as to his opinion of Presi
dent Wilson and Candidate Hughes, he
did not appear to be especially enthusias
tic over either and sighed for a Lincoln
or Roosevelt.
He was inclined to scoff at the idea of
the German submarines preventing the
Baltic from sailing and hinted that aero
planes attached to the ship might be in
strumental in keeping a sharp lookout for
the undersea boats.
Lieut. Bradv said that he, like practi
cally all of his companion aviators, was
fighting for a principle and that it is im
possible for the Germans to win.
SELECT BARRE
FOR NEXT YEAR
Vermont State Medical Soci
ety Will Hold T -Jon-vention
in C ,ber
V .
CONVENT' ENDS
AT f JOHNSBURY
Officers Elected and Closing
Discussions Were
Held
TO APPROPRIATE $52,000.
Being the Surplus Fund of the Vermont
School Budget.
Burlington, Oct. 14. A meeting of the
ermont state board of education was
pld at the Hotel Vermont yesterday
morning, James Hartness, the chairman,
BODY WAS EXHUMED.
In Order to Identify It to Get Insurance
Money.
Rrattleboro, Oct. 14. The body of Pat-
neutral shipping British owners are won- a jn river, was exhumed
t : it.U T".. i ir t i. r fj.
there. lthonrh sh wro. t Taaan I . 'pringuem, rnK n. uroous or .-t.
Fish. I asked her about the matter and J i a l',?' w w ' E"ndol''h
told her she was driving me mad. Soon' ?nd V?,Wt ?. la,nfieIfd J?''
after she served papers lor divorce upon I"1 'ltl ?r- Milo B. Hille.gas of Mont
me and tied up my bank account so that PPr'. .t commissioner of education.
t -,i.i .. .:ii Business of a routine nature was trans-
1 could not pay my bills. , , , . , , , . , .
a (.... .1,. j: , acted, after which the budget for the next
A few lays after the proceedings com- ,. . , . , , . . .
menccd I went to see her at the home of biennium, which has to be reported, ac.
Edward Debero (where the woman was oorfdm to ,aw" P- The bud-
(f,,v " n iivv ,uuiii.,u kllil " n .7. .(rib ill
demand, and refused to be diverted bv
part of the Germans to such a profess, j intimations that light drinks should be
dering how much longer neutral coun
tries are going to allow German ves
sels to lie idle in their port." The cor
respondent then points out that there are
90 German ships in Chilean harbors and
says :
"Chile, like all neutrals, is suffering j
trom lack or tonnage. If she wiU not use
these ships to export her products to Eu
rope, she should be asked to lease them
to some power which can employ them."
Prohibition for Quebec.
Three hundred leading citizens,
lav
and clerical, of the Province of Quebec,
recently waited on Sir Lomer Gouin, the
premier, and the members of the provin
cial cabinet, and urged the responsible
ministry to use its influence in favor of
at least a test of the attitude of the leg
islature as to prohibition of the liquor
traffic. In the deputation were judges.
officials of temperance organizations.
clergymen, and laymen of all callings.
They held steadfastly to their straight
the effective counter-offensive, is now
evidently beyond their power. Their
counter-offensives are weak and do not
even check the minor advances which are
made by the ajlies in their periods of
recovery.
It was undoubtedly to bring about this
executed. Thev impressed the'povern
ment officials strongly by their unity and
zeal. Sir Lomer Gouin pledged serious
attention to the arguments- presented, in
timating that it was now more a ques
tion as to whether the public opinion of
the province had been educated to insist
Customer I'll pay for this drink Sat
nrday, when I get paid. I'm working
over in the mnuitions factory making am
munitions for the Germans.
Saloon Keeper For the Germans? How
do you pet it over there?
Customer Why, we send it to ths
English and they shoot it over. Judge.
synchronize the offensive of the Rus
sians with that of the British and French,
that K"itchcner started on his trip to
Russia that voyage on which he lost
his life. It is a sign of the thorough
ness of the allies' organization that the
synchronization has gone on just the
same. The allies hare gained enormous
ly, and the Germans have lost, in the '
quality which may be called military
phlegm that marble inexcitability which
heretofore has seen a great, and com
manding possession of the German armies,
from the highest command to the com
mon soldier. The German bulletins, in
their frequent and desperate attempts
to misrepresent the actual state of the
fighting, betray a new malaise, a new ex
citability. The renewal of the subma
rine warfare on our ride of the Atlantic
is an indication of this condition of
Thursday at the instigation of Mrs. Mary
Hayes of Tieonderoga, X. Y., who wished
to identify the remains as she had been
paying premiums on McCarthy's life in
surance for a number of years. She had
heard accidental?;' of his death through
a friend and later confirmed the report
through reading a Vermont newspaper.
She desired to make certain that the
body was that of the man on whose life
she had been carrying nn insurance pol
icy, in order to' be in a position to make
claim for the insurance. She said that
she was nn relativtfuf his, but had known
him many years.
Selectman W. E. Stellman talked with
her and she. promised to make restitution
to the town for the expense of the burial
when she collected the policy.
McCarthy was drowned just north of
the gas, house at 8:30 o'clock at night.
He was in the company of two other men
and all had been drinking. McCarthy, his
companions claimed, stood up to put on
his coat and lost his balance and fell into
the water. The body was recovered the
next morning by Police Chief George
Wilson and Arthur E. Knight, who
dragged the river with grappling irons.
shot) and asked her to come back to me
and begin life all over. I took her in
my arms and kissed her and told her that
I loved her just the same as ever. Sho
said that fhe loved me too, but had been
unfaithful, mentioning Fish's name, and
could not return.
"I once considered Fish the best man
friend I had in the world. Last April
I heard he was at my house when I was
away. One night he was walking with
me when my wife was supposed to be
at the picture show. He remarked that
he would hhow me where my wife was
and took me to a house which bore a bad
reputation. We sat there chatting when a
knock came at the door and I heard my
wife ask if George Duncan was there.
Fish took me out the back way.
the hands of a committee made up of
the commissioner and L. B. Johnson.
The matter of appropriating the sur
plus funds of the budget, which amount
to $52,000, was taken up but was not
completed and was left in the hands of
the same commission. This surplus wiil
ibe apportioned throughout the state for
the purpose of assisting rural schools
and equalizing educational opportunities.
St. Johnsbury, Oct. 14. The Vermont
State Medical society decided yesterday
afternoon, just before adjournment, to
hold the annual meeting in Barre next
year. I)r. C. H. Beecher of Burlington.
the newly elected president, presided at
the closing session.
Ihe other oflicers elected were as fol
ows: C. W. Howland, Shoreham. vice-
president; W. G. Ricker, St. Johnsbury,
secretary; F. H. Martin. Middleburv,
treasurer; A. S. Patch, Windsor, audi
tor; S. W. Hammond, Rutland, counsel
or for second district; C. J. Rumrill, Ran
dolph, counselor for fourth district; O.
G. Stirkney, Barre, C. S. Leach, Hydo
Park, executive committee; A. S. Cliis
holm, Bennington, E. P. Martin, Middle
bury, publication committee; F. V.
Sears, Burlington, W. X. Brvant, Lud
low, H. H. Swift, Pittstichl," legislative
committee; F. E. Clark, Burlington, med
ical education committee; F. 1). Ellis,
Bellows Falls, J. I). Hanrahan, Rutland,
K. M. IL Eddy, Middlebury, necrology
committee; r. A. tlyatt.-M. Albans, C.
F. Dalton, Burlington, Grace Sherwood,
St. Albans, J. J. Dervin, J. A. Stevenson,
Chester, medico-legal committee; J. H.
Blodgett, Bellow Falls, anniversary
chairman; W. S. Nay, Underbill, W. L.
Havens, Chester, nominees for board of
medical examiners; F. T. Kidder, Wood-'
stock, alternate to A. M. A.; P. E. Mc
Sweeney, Burlington, president of the
house of delegates; F. T. Kidder, vice
president; W. E. Lazell, Barre, second
vice-president, and F. E. Steele, Montpe
lier, secretary.
TEACHERS IN ELECTIONS.
AT WATERBURY MONDAY.
District No. 5, Odd Fellows, Annual Meet
ing. The annual district meeting No. 5, I.
0. O. F., will be held in Waterbury Mon
day evenim. Oct. 18. onenini? with a ban-
On August 5 (the day of the shooting) !q,-t in the Odd Fellows hall from 6 to 8
I called a doctor to the hotel to see me, I o'clock. The meeting will be called to
for I feared I was losing my mind. I order at the close of the banquet by
could not eat, sleep or do any business. Alhambra encampment, Xo. 20, of Wat
The physician gave me a hypodermic, but ; bury, after which C. C. Graves, P. C. P.,
it did not put me to sleep. I walked! win piy. the address of welcome, fol-
the floor. I imagined that I saw others
in the room threatening me with sticks
and a razor. I backed out of the room
and for five davs my mind was a blank.
I remember nothing until I came to my
self in the house of correction."
The state's evidence shows that Dun
can bought a revolver at a local store an
hour before the shooting. The respond
ent's testimony is in line with his plea
of emotional insanity.
MILK PRODUCERS MEET.
state of things on both fronts, and tojon enforcement of such a law, and less a
question oi tne righteousness of prohibi
tion itself.
The character of this deputation, as !
well as its size, the respect with which it
was treated, and the answer it received,
all combine to make friends of temper
ance, throughout Canada, more hopeful.
It has been assumed by many that Que
bec must be left out of any general pro
hibition scheme, however remote its com
plete accomplishment. The supposition,
for a long time, has been that ecclesias
tical and political forces too strong to
be overcome stood in the way of even
converting cities like Montreal and Que
bec and a peasantry such as inhabits the
villages to any favor for prohibition,
Mrs. Mabl J. Terry of South Pyegate
was brought to this city over the M. &
W. R. railroad yesterday afternoon at
5:45 o'clock and removed to the City
hospital. She waa accompanied by ber
mother-in-law, Mrs. W. W. Terry of
South Ryegate. and her sister, Mrs.'C. J.
W. Shatkford of F.at Ryegate, who are
faying at Hotel Farre.
alarm. General Joffre, General Brusiloff,
cannot be turned back by the destruc
tion of merchant ships on the transat
lantic lanes. Such devices of "ruthless
ness" are merely for their effect on the
German home psychology to hold up
the sinking spirits of a despairing na
tion. The steady, grinding, crushing new
offensive of the allies goes on relative
ly vastly alow, as compared with Sher
man's march to the sea and his swift
swing upward to Virginia, but bound to
be just aa decisive in the end. Boston
Transcript.
Notice to Users ef City Water.
The ritr system will be flushed out on
Sunday, Oct. 13. Water will not be sup
plied between lt.ni. and 5 p. m.
City of Barre Water Department.
DESPITE WIFE'S EFFORTS
Farmer Succeeded in Swallowing Poison
and Died Very Soon.
Brattleboro, Oct. 14 Although his wife
dahed the poison cup from his hands.
William E. Wheeler of Grove reached
into his pocket and pulled out more pois
on, which he succeeded in swallowing de
spite the franctic efforts of his wife yes
terday, death ensuing in a short time.
Dr. A. J. Thomas of Jacksonville was
called but before he arrived the man was
dead. For some time Mr. Wheeler had
been subject to spells of nervousness,
which probably affected fy's mind.
He was one of the prominent residents
of Grove, SO years of age and leaves
a family consisting of his wife and 11
children, eicht of whom live at home.
His wife was Marion Ward of Guilford.
In
New
Order to Hear Sec. Pattee of
England Association.
About a dozen milk producers from
lowed bv
Duncan, grand marshal; exemplification
of patriarchal degree, Eureka encamp
ment of Xorthtield; unwritten work,
grand officers; report of encampment;
good of the order; closing exercises by
Alhambra encampment.
The encampments in the district are:
Minnehaha, Xo. 2, of Barre; : Eureka, X"o.
10, Xorthtield; Thomas Wildey. Xo. 11,
Montpelier; Alhambra, Xo. 20, Water
bury; Granite, Xo. 29, East Barre; Mad
River, Xo. 30, Waitsfield; Halcyon, XV.
33, Pla infield.
Various Organizations Held Meetings in
Burlington.
Burlington, Oct. 14. The State Teach
ers' association's annual convention
closed to-day. The total registration
was 1.540, the largest in history. Last
year at Rutland it was 1,521. The as
sociation elected A. Sharriman, Middle
bury, president; Miss Alberta Beeman,
St. Albans, vice-president; Miss Etta
Franklin, Rutland, secretary; Ernest A.
Hamilton, Newport, treasurer; Margaret
R. Kelley, Derby, Edward F. Greene,
Richford, M. D. Chittenden. Richford.
new directors; H. M. Willett, Springfield,
J. D. Whittier, Arlington, Evelyn Fuller,
Woodstock., executive committee.
Burlington, Oct. 14. The Vermont
Schoolmasters' club, at its annual meet
ing and banquet last evening elected the
following officers: President, Supt. H. D.
'Casey of Springfield; vice-president,
Supt. E. V. Perkins of Woodstock; secretary-treasurer,
Prin. J. C. Walker of
Vergenncs; executive committee. Supt.
S. C. Hutchinson of Montpelier, Supt. C.
H. White of Barre and Prin. J. E. Col
burn of Burlington.
The Headmasters' club of Vermont
elected Prin. E. S. Abbott of Rutland and
Prin. George R. Stackpole of Winooski
as president and secretary, respectively.
The following athletic committee was
various towns in
met in the memorial room in Montpel
ier citv hall to day to listen to Secre
tary Pattee of the Xew England Milk
Producers' association, whose aim is to
educate them to get better prices for
tneir proauct i ne meeting as not j,,.,,, t M J
very well at ended owing to the fact that j,rs. F. H. Ra9ta, who ,ms Wn vig.
nttie pumicity naa Deen given to H itine in Barre and Montnelier since com
ing here to attend the state W. C. T. U.
TrvJ nrr .Trnr m fnrmnr rnaifiitnf ti
Washington county r.arre. returned vesterdav to his home in
Windsor, after passing a few days with
friends in the city.
Luke Gallagher, who conducts a shoe
shining stand in Depot square during the
summer and fall, is again' employed as a
had been given to it,
When newspaper men endeavored to en
ter the meeting they were told to come
around after it was over.
HUGHES IN NEBRASKA.
Will Speak To-night in Lincoln, Bryan's
Home City.
elected: E. B. Smith of Rrattleboro.
response for district, Alex;n,aries H. Morrill of Bakersfield, John
W. Hatch of Montpelier seminary, Lynn
Grow of Fairfax and James C. Walker
of Vergcnnes. The club voted to hold a,
winter meeting, the time and place of
such meeting being left to the decision of
the officers. It will probably be held in
Burlington next March.
A Vermont group of the Xew England
Modern Languages association was
formed by those interested in this work,
with the following officers: President,
Prof. Skillings of Middlebury college;
vice-president, Miss Lucy Cyr of Burling
ton high school; secretary and treasur
er. Prof. A. 11. Appelmann of the Uni
versity of Vermont; executive commit
tee, Miss Ethel S. Osgood of Brattleboro,
Miss A. lWgley of Rutland and Powell
Spring of the University of Vermont.
Two papers were given, Prof. Myrick of
the University of Vermont speaking on
"Wliat Place Shall Translation Have in
the Teaching of Modern Languages?" and
Prof. Robinson of Middlebury college,
considering "Oral Work in Modern Lan
guages." These two papers were then
discussed at length. The next meeting
of the association will probably be held
with the Vermont branch of the classical
association.
The Vermont Music Teachers' associa
tion elected oflicers as follows: President,
TALK OF THE TOWN
convention, returned this morning to her
home in Manchester Center.
An attractive display of antique quilts
was inspected bv a large number of
The funeral is to be held
PROSPERITY THROUGH POTATOES.
much loss getting a statute on the law i Last fall Mr. Wheeler's barn' was burned
books. And no doubt the past history of ; together with H the crops, but the stix k
reform movements in the province has was saved.
given much cause for the supposition. (Sunday.
The fact is, however, that example
teaches louder than precept, and the eco
nomic and moral gains that have come
with prohibition in Ontario, and in the
provinces of the, west, are not being over
looked in Quebec. The facts cannot bj
hidden, and thev are having an educa
tional effect. The burdens of taxpayers jemne
win oe neavr. and if lails can be emptied. !tne
Aroostook County Farmers Likely to Re
in the evening a sizeable audience lis
tened to the choir in an eniovable mcdlt-v
Falls City. Xeb., Oct. 14. Hughes en- or old-time Honrs. To many who vieu.'d
tered Nebraska to-day for a two days the quilt display, the showing of so manv
campaigning and will speak to-night at i im.v wrought specimens was a revela"-
l.incoin. III mime tu tiuunui .jemim
Bryan, and will remain in that city un
til Monday.
" l"e vcslr OI ,nfi longrrjja-, charl K Wood f Springfield; vice-
PENNSYLVANIANS EXPECTED.
tion. After the e ntertainment, a lunch
eon of tea and pumpkin pie was served
by the members of the woman's asso
ciation. At the I'niversalist church to-morrow
at W::tl Rev. ,T. B. Rear. Inn will nrenph
Will Be Addressed By Pres. Wilson This I on ..Tj,r poetical and the Sentimental
Afternoon. j in Religion." Bible studv at 1 1 : 4. ; sub-
Long Branch. X. J., Oct. 14.-President ! '"l''JV "I0";"
llson p anned to discuss political con- . , , , . . 1
f . liinf rif frmri.h Will tlll, thm :ninrr p,n..
I - - 1" "
prisons relieved of many inmates, and
bank deposits iwreased, the French-Canadian
town or country dweller will not
nmtKnmnm dilions in this section, particularly in ! , . . , ,, , r. ' .
w.., P..nnsvlvni. in a sneerh Ute thi -fter- I" ' ,IP "Tlr-V "r.a "rlorK- of Burlington: vice-president, M
Bangor, Me Oct. 14.-Glowing reports nooll we . delegation comimr to ecle- mn":e "'J - .!". . I Franklin of Rutland; secretary.
from Aroostook county concerning Pennsylvania day at Shadow Lawn. i. p'-v ... V"' '.? " . '"'" Caroline Griswold of Montpelier;
- . . : ISii.l "I'rwtlllfla in ll" Jllmlinint 1 Ihl . ...
great prosperity ot tnat region re- Kour thousand Pennsvlvsnians are ex- ' " ... . . ' ',l"r,'r- Sarah .Martin oi
i ..... r.B rj...,T in hi.- lyiu v. KO e .Moore ot
(
suiting Iron) a line potato crop, selling pot-ted
at high prices. Aroostook produce fr-'tn j
20,0O0.(mnI to 2S.Ono.000 bushels of pota
and effect, between temperance and j 24.000,000 bushels are shipped out of the ! The reporter was interviewing the
thrift. He is as shrewd a citizen as an v j county, the remainder going for seed, I leading politician.
country boasts, albeit thrifty to an ex- home "consumption or to the starch mills. "This," said the interviewed-, "is the
traordinary degree. He will not care to I This year the shipment probahlr will, sge of ideel, and "
compete with saloon-free provinces, with "amount to 18.fi00.OO0 bushels, and for this j "Pardon me, please." interrupted the
Quebec handicapped by saloons, and On-'gTeat quantity of "spuds" the farmers interviewer, "but. in behalf of accuracy,
Urio, Manitoba and Victoria without will receive not less than $12,isi.t"", would yon kindly spell thai ord!
K.Iveri and "O Lord, Thou Art My
Strenffth" (Golarifl. OlTertnrv duet.
I T1, l ,-l ia r t . i i - !e. . .
1,1.7 . " I '1 11 .Ill-fMiri l lOMIAIlJ,
Mrs. Tabor and Miss Inglis.
them. Christian Science Monitor.
probably f 1 3,ono,o).
Browning's Magazine.
"Xow, my son," said tbe conscientious
father, "tell me why I punished vou."
"That's it." blubbered the boy." indig
nantly. "First you pounded the life
out of me, an' now you don't know what
yoti done it for." American Boy.
f
president. Miss Emma Elliott of John
son; secretary, Lewis J. Hathaway of
Middlebury college; treasurer, Miss Sa
die Lothrop of Orleans; executive com
mittee, Mrs. C. . H. Coan of Rutland,
chairman, Mrs. M. P. Burritt of Burling
ton and Miss Venita Dudgeon of Castle
ton. At the meeting of the Vermont State
Teachers' Retirement Fund association.
Miss Etta Franklin, the vice-president,
presided in the absence of Miss Berth
Terrill of this city, the president. Re
ports of the treasurer, special committee.
and nominating committee were heHrd
and the same officers were re-elected, as
follows: President, Miss Bertha Terrill
isa Etta
Miss
treas-
Burlington ;
Burlington.
Supt. (j. W. Wright of St. Albans wa
re-elected a member of the board of
managers and Supt. D. B. Locke of Rut
land a member of retiring fund board.
Miss Mabel Kidder of Proctor was elect
ed to membership in the association.
Supt. Locke announced that the fund
now amounted tc $31,000, and suggested
avs and means of increasing this
amount, after which the meeting ad
journed.
