mmmmmmmmmmmmmmaMmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
j V."
S
THt WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudy to-day; to-morrow proba-
bly showers; ahifting winds.
Hlgheat temperature yesterday, Si; lowest, 61.
DtU4wthM, mall end matins reports en pate t.
IT SHINES FOR, ALL
VOL. LXXXm.-NO. 323.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, JULY 19, 1916 . Copyright, 1916, by the Sun Printing nnd Publishing Association.
ONE CENT
In Greater N York,
Jeraey t'Hjr anil Newark,
Elsewhere,
TWO CKNT.1.
II GUARDSMEN
ILL, DARLINGTON
BLAMES WILSON
HflttJumen at Border Are
stricken With Pneumonia
-Lives May Be Saved.
LONG, CRAMPED, TRIP
INVITED THE GERMS
Civic Federation Investiga
tor Holds Carelessness
Imperilled Troops.'
THOUSANDS OF MILES
IX HEAT AND DUST
Scientist Still Praises Fun
ston. but Criticises Men
in Washington.
ty ftaff Conttponitnt ) Tni Sr.i.
Pas Antonio. Tex., July IS, Numer
ous rimes of rneumonla among National
riuard troops are due directly to the
fact that the civilian control of the.
army lent their guard troops to the bor-
Jar with rather less consideration for'
their ell 1elng than If they had been
mules. j
There are fourteen such rases In the
base and camp hospitals. It la undent,'
atood, liy the National Civic Kedera-1
tlon'e Investigator, Dr. Thomaa Darling-j
ton. anil Dr. Darlington has satisfied
' himielf, after a study of audi cases as
are accessible here, that the fiovern
ment Is to blame. He learned that
very one of these young men now gasp
Ins for breath upon a bed of pain way I
forced by the War Department orders i
tn travel some thousands of miles In
heat and dust in ordinary day coaches.
He finds that they were subjected tO
ecn -unnecessary isaixue inrougn
belns cramped tn cars where restful
sleep was Impossible that they fell vic
tims easily to pneumonia semis.
And that Is not merely Dr. Darling
ton's conclusion: It Is the finding of
the officers of the Medical Corps of the
United States army on duty here.
Mar Still Avert Deaths.
It Is possible that no death will
ruU from these pneumonia case.
Cot. Ireland, superintendent of the
bnae hospital at Fort Sam Houston,
and Capt. Hlller. the officer In charge
of the department laboratory of the
l'as hospital, an Institution which Is
perhaps the greatest safeguard of
army health because of Its facilities
far the rapid diagnosis of disease, got
t these cases In tide, and they are
now receiving absolutely perfect
treatment
Hut Darlington know and the Medi
ci! Corps experts Itttow that the younjr
".Idlers were not fairly treated, and
". It l a shameful thing for them to
he Ivlnr here.
It Is not to be doubted that other
.ises will shortly develop. The medical
officers anticipate them. Darlington be
l.eves. from medical experience, that
"ansportatlnn hardships mal:e them In
"V.lahlf. The pneumonia situation Is
h remit of the transportation methods
en'oned on the Quartermaster's Coips
by Ihe Ignoranre and Incompetency In
military matters of President Wllson'a
Adinlnlslrntlon. Had the liming mid
methods of transporting troops been left
in the wisdom of the regular army of
ficers Wood. Barry, Bell. Funston anil
ntlmrs In high rommand who know their
business there would lme been little, If
any. slrknrsa and a vast amount of titi
neccssary discomfort would have been
avoided.
II I ii in r i.n Baiiallnar.
That iv the iiplnlon of the Nnllnnnl
r"vic Federation's Invesfiyatur and of
h at my olflcirs here who, although
muzzled hy Washington nnd knowing to
i certainty that reprimand would follow
outspoken criticism of Ihe Washington
hir.amiatK. say very fiankly that the
traispnttutloii nas a bungled and
notched up business,
Scretury Baker Kent an order to the
quartermasters at the outset of the mob
Illation to put thiee men In every two
car seats. That wat the Intelligent plan
followed eighteen years ago nnd the
S-oretaty stuk to blind routine. Dr.
narllngtnn's Investigation reveals that
thousands of men got no chant e what
Mer to sleep reMfully because of that
order.
Imagine three men tiylng to dispose
Jt-elr tired bodies for any sort of sleep,
In two day roach mat.!. There was no
fecessRy for the order because there whs
ri- necessity for hasty transportation, j
The tnnbliUatlon records here. In New
i"rk and at mobilization point" In the I
forty. elelit states, ure proof enough that i
ih- time wasted by the numerous change I
I'lsii. the sending of regiment to homo
camps wth the understanding that thevj
were to remain there for weeks and the.
sudden and amazing changes which up-1
rtoted these leglments again and started1
them for tho border mljbt belter have
te-n used, In the opinion of regular army I
oillcerr. in an orderly and well thought '
ut method of entrapment and transpor
tation, "Ids It Easily Avoidable. '
f'r Darlington will want to know
rte-ently. and Congress may he asked
h the National civic Federation to And
"J". why the Administration failed to
' the Pullman Company for any of Its
laniard cars. He contends that the
vhol fatlsutng, disease breeding busi
r.en was easily avoidable. Plenty of
comfortable cars were available, he has
1' amed.
"It Is absurd to think that such hatd
hips arc good for soldiers," said Dar
I ration. ' They are not. They rob men
of vitality and make them easy prey for
rtlMsse genua. There was much that
v. as gravely wrong In the transporting of
these troops."
Major.cjrn. Funston takes a different
Mew of tho matter. He looks upon the
entraining from the standpoint of a sol
dier who has gone through bird amies,
who has endured much discomfort him
eir. and who can't see, llierefore, why
loldlers of thess day shoull complain
Continued on Second Pops.
SEES ELUS ISLAND
AS IMMORAL PLACE
Representative W. S. Rennet
Makes Bitter Attack on
Frederic C. Howe.
CHAHOKS MADE TO HOUSE
Commissioner of Immigration
Accused of Favoring: Un
desirable Aliens.
Washington, July 1. Startling
charges against Frederick C. Howe.
Commissioner of Immigration ' at New
York, wers made in the House to-day by
Representative William S. Hennct, lie
publican. New York, who alleged that
gross Immorality exists at the Bills
Island Immigrant station, and that Mr.
Hone "is Ihe most negligent Commls.
sioner wo have ever had."
Mr, Hennet charged, among other
things, that "In the past two years he
(Howe) has recommended to the de
partment that undesirable women Im
migrants be admitted on bond, which
simply means a license to proceed wher
eer they will."
The Itepresenlatlve's speech at one
point was so critical of Mr. Howe thut
Representative Cox. Indiana, Interjected
the statement that he was Indicting tho
Commissioner with serious moral crime.
Representative Hennet charged tlm
although some of the past 0MI1 at Kills
Island have been corrected as the re
sults of efforts of a matron, the condi
tions still existing there "will lie far
more harmful to the city of New York,
If they continue, than the scourge of
Infantile paralysis."
After making bis caustic speech Mr.
Ilcnnet Introduced a teaolutlon calling
on the Secmtary of Labor for Informa
tion regarding details of .Mr. Howe's
administration. Including his plan to
have the Government feed the aliens at
Kill Island Instead of letting the restau
rant privilege to competitive bidders.
He also asked for an opinion from
the Department of Justice on the ques
tion of the Government operation of the
leataurant. reviewing briefly the con
troversy that has arisen between himself
an-J Mi Howe on this point,
Men and women are permitted to
mingle Indiscriminately In recreation
giounds established by Commlmloner
Howe, Mr. Hennet charged, declaring
that the Commissioner Is "a half baked
radical, with free love Ideas."
After explaining that he had made an
Independent Investigation at Kills Island,
Mr. Rennet said:
"One section of the Immigration Law
provides that undesirable aliens of both
sexes may be arrested anywhere In the
United States at any time after entrv
Into the United States. And during the
years 1914 and 1915 there was com
mendable activity on the part of the
department In that respect. Certain
women were brought to Kills leland.
"Seme years ago me enlarged Kills
Island so that persons of that character
might be segregated from the decent
women who nre detained there, largely
for pecuniary reasons, waiting for money
to be sent by their people.
Abroit tiled ffetinrntlun Rules.
"I found, to my horror, that this
Commissioner of Immigration had abro
gated those ralutnry rules and that he
permitted objectionable persons of both
iexea to mingle nt will with the other
Inmates at Kills Island. The depart
ment sent over there, as matron of the
detention room, a very estlmablo lady.
She had the old fashioned Idea that
you cannot touch pitch without being
denied, and by reason of some of her
recommendations conditions tlue have
been to some rtent mitigated and eome
of Ihe scandalous occurrences ceased to
exist."
In opening Ills Hieech Mr tSennrt re
feired to Commissioner Howe as "more
radical In his views to governmental af
fairs than any member of this House,
and that gives somewhat of an Idea of
him as an extremist."
"As I was saying, the Commissioner
has recommended the admission of un
desirable women Immigrants on lioml,
and In one rase he recommended the ad
mission of one of these women, named
Juliette, and bad her transferred to a
family of fileuds as a servant,
"I do not mean he Is morally wrong
In the sens, that my remark would In
dicate. I simply think that his govern
mental Ideas are wioug, and as he la
said to have said, 'What these people
did with their bodies is I lie I r own bui
ness,' It Is natural that the course of con
duct like that would culminate In some
thing. "Mr. flpenker," Mr. Rennet continued,
"It Is of very little moment to the people
at large whether In offering a particular
reason I discharge my duty to the best
of my capacity, but It Is of tremendous
Importance whether a half baked radical
who has free love Ideas and no proper
Idea of the effect of the mingling of the
good with the bud should be upheld."
FULLMAHS, OB CAMP ON TRACK.
Y. Corps Forces Rallrnail tn He
place Day Coaches.
Sr Loins, July IP. "Have Pullmans
st Cleveland for Fourth Ambulance
Corps or we'll camp on tracks In dog
tents until you do."
This message was dictated by Capl.
Jerterson B. I.utte of the Fourth Ambu
lance Corps. N, Y, N, (I., said members
In SI. Louis to-day.
When the corps reached Buffalo from
Svrucuse, It found day coaches Instead
of Pullmans.
"When we reached Cleveland we found
five Pullmans ready for us, and travel
ling was cream the rest of the way,"
was the way one member put It.
The Ambulance Corps and the Second
Field Hospital Corps from Albany
reached here at noon time and left for
McAllen. Teg,, at C:10 P. M.
PATRIOTISM MAY COST OFFICE.
Tito King tssrnihlyanrn Nervine
In Mllltla Believed Ineligible.
One of the hardships of the present
mllltla systrtp was brought home to cer
tajn Republican leader of Kings coun
ty yesterday when they began lo form
their lines for the fall campaign.
Lieut-Col. Frederick A. Wells of the
Twenty-third Infantry Heglmeut and
Corporal George It. Iirennan of Ihe First
Cavalry are members of the Assembly,
but through a conflict of the new Fed
eral mllltla law with the Htate Consti
tution It Is a question whether Ihey are
qualified to ssrve as Assemblyman now
or will bs eligible for reelection In No
vember, Under the new Federal law
they have been mustered Into tbs Fed
eral service.
AND NEW YORK PRESS
DEMOCRATIC HITCH
OVER COMMITTEE
Wilson fliitl McAdoo Negative
Soled Ions of McCormirk
and Morten tlian.
NEW YORKER IS LACKING
President Snld lo Fnvor Tnni
ninny Man, Willi Son-ins
law Opposed.
Disagreement between Vance McCor-
mlck, national Democratic chairman, and 1
Henry Morgenthau on the one hand and
President Wilson and Secretary of the
Treasury McAdoo on the other was said !
yesterday to be what la delaying the an-,
nouncement of the Democratic campaign
committee. i
Mr. MeConnlck returned yesterdsyi
ffom another of his many conferences
with the President, still with no an-,
nouncement to make about who would
engineer the President's campaign. Ue-J
fore he left for Washington It had been 1
said at Democratic headquarters that
the committee would be announced when
he came back. Simitar predictions have
been made before when Mr. MiCormlek I
went to Washington, and the result has
been tho same.
The explanation. It was said veairrdav.
I Is that the chairman simply cannot get
the President and his familiar Mr. Mc
1 Adoo to approve any of the slates he lias
, submitted for a committee. On every I
I such list thus far there have been at 1
least two names that were objectionable
to one or the other of them and Mr. Mc-'
' Cormlck and Mr. Morgenthau have had '
to cast about for substitutes, only to have
them In turn turned down or to have
I other objections made.
.rr YnrU n Nlninbllnaj Block.
One of the prlncp.il dltncullle has
been and remains, It w.i s.ild In still an-,
other quarter, ngreclng upon a repre
sentative on tho committee from New
i York State. "The Tammany and ami
' Tammany elements seem unable to agree, 1
' and It Is said the President and Mr. Mc-
Adon themselves are not at one on the
matter. The President Is represented as
, preferring a Tammany man and his son-in-law
as opposing it. The situation may (
j.cruii 111 n ui-amui-K mill lllj ,ew 1 UTKCr
at all on the committee unless Mr. Mor
genthati's ex-nlllclo position be consld
i ered.
It may be, too, that not until after
July 31, when Mr. Hughes makes his
notification speech, will the Pemocrats
know how what remains of the ProgreH
I slve cat will Jump. There have been
I rumors of dlfllcultles In getting repte-
sentativo Progressives who hove not
Joined the Hughes force to cnneut
to serve with the Wilson men. It Is
said they want to see what Mr, Hughes I
will rav In his speech, and the Demo- I
jcrnts, mindful of his oldtlme vigor of
I utterance, nre afraid these Moose too
will enlist with him nfter having heard I
him. i
I
, Appeal Kir the l.almr Vote.
The Democrats will make strenuous
florin to draw voter of various special
classes. Mr. McCormlck announced yea.
terd.iy. A new labor bureau has been or
ganised at the headquarters, to appeal
particularly to the l.ibor vote on what
' President Wilson and Congress have
lone and firopose to do for vvorkliiK
t men, Robert S. Hudspeth, Prosecutor of
HuiIhoii county. New Jersey, and Henry
' Skilllnstoti, Immigration Commissioner
i at Huston, are to be in charge of this
I. ri-t... 1,. .AH ...III t I 1. 1.. ....
uuimu . tin , in in irriHll Mtn iu
suiuri.
' There will b also an agricultural
, bureau, to vvoik up farmer' votes,
I using particularly the recently passed
rural credits law as an argument. Then
too the old Wilson college men's
league of four years ago may be reor
ganised, i
WAR WAIF CROSSES OCEAN.
Irmcnlan Infant Hrouitht tn lie
Father Here hy n .Vnnr,
Through the philanthropy of Miss
IMIIh F. AtMns, a tialned iiure of
. England, who Ills Keen seivlce in Hie
. European war, the slx-nionths-old boy
llnliy of Ar.mi l'.ip.i.lun. ,i well to do
. Arinenl.ui resident of Hrlurellffe, ni
rlved here last night by the Ctlllaider
Suxonla and was placed in the arms of
lilsfntber, who never has seen the little
one.
Mrs. I'ap.ir.lun was left hi London hy
her husband Just before the baby was
born. Mls Atkins att'lidid the mother,
who died, The father made an effort to
get to London, but being a subject of
Turkey he was unable to get a pass
port, BIO CANAL GUNS BOOMING.
lien. Ktlnnrds Snys Tarsjel Prac
tice Was Heat He Ever Saw.
Panama, July There was target
practice with the fourteen Inch guna of
the Atlantic fotts to-dny Ilrlg.-Hen.
Clarence It. Edwards, commander of the
(.'ati.il Zone, declared that the shoot
ing was the best over done by roaeit
artillery wllhln his personal observation.
The big guns nlso were used In assist
ing n mobile army operating on both
sides of the canal, und thnir nhells de
stroyed a Jungle, for nn extent of 2(lfl feet
around the targets.
SAYS JAPAN WILL AID MEXICO.
Tokln Professor llerlarea War Has
Merely Been Postponed.
Sptrial ( tblt Dtspatch to Tna Sis, 1
Havana, July 18. Prof. H. Osaka ofi
the faculty of the Toklo University de-'
dared un his arrival here to-dny from
Vera Cruz that Mexico could count on '
the urvnndltloni! support of Japan Inl
the event of war with tho United .States. I
The professor said that war between !
the United Htutes anil .Mexico had not
been avoided, but simply postponed,
Street Car Strike To-night,
Yonkkbs, July Id. It now seems prob
able that a sttllto of the employees of the
street car lines of this city, Monrtt Vcr
non and New Itochelle will be called nt
niklnlgliUlo-moirow, when the ultima
tum to tpc companies expires.
The Joint committee which has been
considering the demands of the men will
continue In session until noon to-morrow,
RUSSIA TO CONTROL
THE DARDANELLES
Allies Apron fo fllve Her Pos
session of Both Sides,
Newspaper Snys.
I-oNnos', July 19 (Wednesday). That
Russia ho.s been promised possession of
both sides of the Dardanelles) Is stated
categorically In a summary of tho pro
ceedings of the army and navy commit
ten of the Duma as published In the
Petrograd newspaper lluimky Ntovoe.
The newspaper summarises tho report
of the Russian parliamentary delegates
to the commltteo on their return from
a recent trip to the allied countries nnd
add that the most Intcreatlng statement
was made by Prof. Mllukoff. who said:
"The moat Important quistlon In which
tve were Interested was the problem of
the Dardanelles. An agreement has been
made between Russia and her allies
whereby we are promised both sides of
the straits, Thin agreement has not
been published, but we consider It our
duty to make It known."
N. Y. TROPICAL CITY SOON.
Ssrlnar of Calf sit ream In Make
Coney Itlval Havana.
Ci.Kvct.ANn, July IS. New York may
soon become a tropical city of waving
palm trees and rival Florida nnd othor
Southern resorts. ,
The Rev Father Odenbach, Jesuit
scientist, sees all this coming In the near
future If the Gulf Stream continues to
swing northward and Inshore.
Father Odenbach says this swing -f
the stream Is responsible for the flocking
of sharks In New York harbor and along
the Jersey coast.
He warns that Coney Island Is likely
to tie a second Havana and that Central
and Hronx parks will lie full of chat
tering wild monkeys nnd tropical fish.
Father Odenbach is professor of geol
ogy nnd astronomy In St. Ignatius Col
lege here and the inv enter of the cerau
nograph and an electric seismograph.
COLONIAL RELICS FOR N. Y.
Metropolitan Mnaenm tin ye Tartar
nf Marmlnn Mansion.
Rich mono, Va , July IS, The Met
ropolitan Museum of Art has bought
the parlor of Marmlon Mansion, the fa
mous Lewi home In King Henrge coun
ty, for removal to New York. The room
will be placed In Ihe museum tn be pre
served as a type of early Ajnerlcan
architecture, The mansion dates from
the seventeenth century and Is one of
the oldest In Virginia. The room's heavy
oak panels were decorated In 17S3 by a
lles-lan soldier, who was nursed In the
Irfwis home after he had lieen wounded
In battle.
FOWLER ORDERED TO TRIAL.
sU'hnttel and Moraran Alan lo
Answer Indictments Here.
Washington, July 18. An order for
the removal of H Robert Fowler. Her
mann J. Schultels and Henry II. Morgan
to New York to answer Indictments
chaiglng conspiracy to Interfere with
ammunition shipments to the Entente
Allies was signed to-day hy JuMlce
Hould of the District Supreme Court.
The defendants appealed from the deci
sion, which denied their application for
a writ of habeas corpus and renewed
their bonds.
Indictments against them were found
by the Federal Hrnnd Jury at New York
us a tesult of their activities In connec
tion with the so-called Labor IV.iee
Council.
TOYS FOR PATIENTS NEEDED.
Mimes Onl Acceptable, as ill
Must Re ,nly llniiKhf.
More than GUO children suffering fiom
infantile paralysis are being curd for
In the Wlllard Parker Hospital, .Manhat
tan, and the Kingston Avenue. Hospital,
llrooklyn. Naturally many of the ailing
and crippled yoitngsterK ato fretful and
cross, and the hours drag.
The Manhattan boiouejh fuinmdtre of
the Slate Charities Aid Society, of which
Frederick C Hoynton Ih vhalrnmn. Is
undertaking to buy to) fur tho little
patients. New onea are all that may bo
brought Into I lie hospitals, so money
only Ih acceptable. Checks should be
made payable to J, F Thomas, secre
tary, los East Twenty-second street.
TOWN OFFICIALS INDICTED.
eilret lo Suppress Itecenl Hint
nl llnverlilll, .Mass., Charged.
LvvviiKNTK. Mas July 18. The en
tire city government of Haverhill was
Indicted to-dny for "neglect to suppress
an unlawful assembly" as the result of
the Investigation of the rioting there on
Apt II .1, when ThomiiH Leyden of Homer-villi-
attempted to deliver an address on
State apptoprlatlons for sectarian
schools,
.Mayor Albert L. llartletl nnd Alder
men Itoswell U Wood, Christopher C,
Cook, Charles M, lloyt, who Is nlso Com
missioner of Public Hafety, and Albeit
E. .Stlckney ure named In the Indict
ments. The statute provides for n fine
of not more than 1300 ns a penalty.
On the night of the rioting several
person vveie attacked und beaten by u
mob, and considerable property damage
watt caused by stone Knowing.
THREE MORE SHARKS BAGGED.
Two Taken In Jersey Itlvera, fine
at Watrh Hill. ,
Navigators nnd sea travellcm did not
see so many sharks yesterday on were
reported on Monday and Sunday, but
several were observed In shoal wateis.
An eight fooler was hooked In tho
.Shrewsbury Hlvcr. an ocean Inlet, near
.Seiibrlght, and killed, and one reputed
to he nine feet long wiih seen nt Cold
Spring Harbor, across from Oyster Hay,
while Col. Roosevelt was not looking.
Hunters of sharks In a motor boat
shot a four foot shark In the Elizabeth
ltlver yesterdny afternoon,
Watch Him., H. I., July 18, An eight
and n half foot shark drifted Into East
Heard this afternoon at 3 o'clock. It
had a big triangular gash In Ita neck
and was nearly dead. Men In n power
boat pushed the shark Into shore, and a
few bathers helped to beach It. It was
quickly disposed of, and ths teeth tnken
ns souvenirs.
FOREIGN LEGION WINS
FIGHT WITH GERMANS
AniPi'K'iiiis' Killed nnd Wound
ed on .Inly i Nenr Relloy-en-Snntorre.
Sprrlitl Cable Dttpateh to Tus Sis.
Paris, July IS. The Foielgn Legion
celobr.iled July 4 by carrying the village
of Helloy-en.S.interre, taking over 100
unvvounded prisoners and driving the
Ciermans back two miles Into Ihe open
country. The Hermans ceased to retire
when they reached u hedge behind which
temporary defences were hullt. Here
there was a hard fight, the Hermans
having been reenforced and the 1-cgloti
having exhausted Its ammunition In Its
rjpld advance and outstripped Its sup
plies. Jn. n Charton. a New Yorker who
volttntered recently, was killed at this
point during a (its man attempt to cap
turn a mitrailleuse.
The Legion charged and rushed the
rieinun positions at the point of the
li.iynnet. Five hundred Hermans sur
rendered. Wilfred Mlchand of Detroit
I was killed nnd Frank Clair of Columbus,
uhlo, was wounded.
i With aims and ammunition obtained
from the Hermans who had surren
dered, the Legion held off Herman re
enforcements for two hours, until rein
forcements nrrlved, whereupon the
Legion wa then relieved and that night
went to the third line and rested until
July 7.
Returning to the same positions, the
Legion was preparing to nttack, when
the Hermans withdrew on a stronger
po-IUon. The Legion followed and en
fered the front lino of the Herman
trenches, lemalnlng until July 10, when
It was again relieved.
It vva reported, but not confirmed.
' that Alan Seegcr was among those
slightly wounded.
RELY ON GOD, SAYS KAISER.
Umpernr Tell. Clin plains War la
Sepamtlna Chaff From Wheat.
Amstkrpam, via London, July 19.
The speech which tho Kaiser made re-
cently to a gathering of army chaplains
at main headquarters Is reported tn the
Vottiehn y.eitung by Chaplain Dr. Ott
"The world war la separating the chaff
from the wheat," sold the Emperor.
"Life Is a trial. We need practical
Christianity to bring our Uvea into har
mony with tho personality of our Lord.
We must live simply, according to Hta
acts and deeds. We live with the Lord.
"Suppose Christ entered at this mo
ment through yonder door, could we
look Into hl face? Holng to church onco
a '-week l.s not enough. You must bring
sharply before us the vision of Hod. Who
perhaps ns the Judgo, Is now passing
through the world.
I "The men who are now In the trenche
will return liomo dlfferwnt men spirit
ually than when they left. Impress upon
them that they must retain In tho future
the. thought which fill them now.
"Everybody must admit that our na
tion Is great, that It Is, without com
plaint or licsltatlon, sacrificing every
thing for a great cause. This Is nn In-
I (titration derived from Hod. Hlvo the
men In the trenches my greeting, nnd
at the same time tell them how Impor
tant 't Is that thy keep firm lellance on
Hod."
WILLS IMPERIAL BRACELET.
Mrs. Snrnh (.. Crane's Itrqiicat Is,
lliitvrtrr. Revoked fay Cmllrll.
Mrs. Sarah Gray Crane, widow of Dr.
Edward A. Crane, who saved th Em
press Eugenie from a Parisian mob Hep
tembcr -t, 1870, bequeathed the bull; of
her estate to her daughter, Jennie Mc
Klnstry of Mlddletown, Conn., and her
son, Harley Edward Rates of New- York,
according to her will, which was filed
for probate yesterday In the Surrogate's
Court.
The Eniptess gave Dr, Cra.ie a ,-.irf
pin Fct with pearls and diamonds wlilih
later were mounted In a bracelet. Tills
bracelet was bequeathed to MI-n K'uxj.
beth Crane, daughter of Col, A. It. Crnnu
nf Sen. 'dale, but a codicil revoked the
bequest, stating simply that other dis
position had been mnde. of the rJms.
.Mrs, Crime died May II in i'tS Fort
Washington avenue.
EARTHQUAKE RACKS FIUME.
tuslrlnn Sen port Panli'slrleLrn .
Much lluinajfp Done.
Uinpon. July IS. A Central News
despatch from Amsterdam says great
datuago has been caused by nn earth
quako In the refilnn of Flume. Austria,
In the city of Flume, tho despatch says,
.1 terrible panic was caused by the earth
quake. Flume Is a city nf about lO.Ortft, at
the northeastern extremity of the
Adriatic Hea, It Is an Important sea
port, There have been several earth
disturbance recently near the Adriatic,
principal!) In lower Italy nnd Sicily.
LIGHT BILL TOO HEAVY.
Court Cuts SOl',711 Monthly
I 'ha rue la Wit.
I'hlnens Kent, .If, will not hnvi- to piy
SC'J.Tli for tho electricity he used In one
month In his four room apartment, The
Public Service Commission derided yes
lenlay that t'i would be about enough.
Mr, Kent, who lives at 537 First ave
nue, Long Island City, complained that
i the New York nnd Queens Electric
1 ""' '"wer Company had sent
him a surprise on April It In the form
or a mil ror me iti'.'.Ttl covering only
one mouth,
At n hearing yesterday the company's
lepicsenlatlvis said they believed Mr.
Kent's wires hart been tampered with,
and Commissioner Hnyward decided ho
should pay only his normal bills, $;,
MAYOR MITCHEL IS 37 TO-DAY.
He F.xpri'ts tn Celebrate It b Itr
iiiilnlnK at III Desk.
Mii or Mltchel Is 37 years old lo-diiy,
nnd Ih koIik to celebrate hy comlm:
down lo City Hull and staying thern all
day. Tn-nlght he probably will have, din
ner nt home: he has no other filans.
The Infantile iaralsltt epidemic ulnno
would keep the .Mayor at his orhYc most
of the day, and lidded to that ho wants
lo be in touch with every development In
the Investigation District Attorney
Hwutin has commenced Into ths ehsrltlrs
wiretapping.
BRITISH IN FIERCE
FIGHT FOR SALIENT
(iermans Take Ajrjrrossivc in
Heavy Counter Attack in
I.ontriicval Sector.
BREAK HALF MILE LINK
(on. llais's Troops Make
Progress on Krnnt North
of Ovillers.
LuMiov, July IS Adverse weather
Is compelling a lull In the fighting on the
western front, and with the exception
of the region of Longuevnt and south
of the Somme, at Pinches, relative calm
prevails on the fighting front In France.
Tho British nnd Hermans nre engaged
In sanguinary conflict In tho retlon of
the Longucvnl eallcnt, to the northwest I
of t'ombles. With the clearing of the ,
weather the Hermans havo taken the i
aggressive here after n preliminary,
bombardment In which a new asphyxiat
ing gas shell was used. A! last accounts
no decision had been reached In tlioi
battle, Berlin says a Biltleh attack on .
1'ozteres failed.
Tho British have carried out a new I
thrust forward north of Ovllllers, mak
ing substantial progress along a front 1
of more than half a mile. The drive
was launched near the left flank of the, ,
lino active In the present offensive,
southeast of Thlepval, and If followed i
up aeema likely to threaten seriously tho
Gorman position at Pozlerss. I
To tho south of the Sommo the French
have driven tho Germans front houses
which they held In the village of lllaches. j
Tho Germans failed on Tuesday to re
new their nttnckn betwean nineties and I
La Maisonnette, In which tho French t
Inflicted heavy casualties on them Moti-1
day night.
Hlar Hon Captured,
Military critics arc agreeably surprised
by tho lnrgo captures of hea vyjirma ment
which Hen. Sir Douglas Halg, ..?. llrlt
Ish Commander In Chief, has announced.
They point out how, although tho Hrlt
lsh attacks have been preeeed wltn
the greatest rapidity In order tn give
the Hermans no time to organlre
formidable defences, nt the same time, ns
waa evidenced by tho withdrawal of the
Hrltlsh from the Foureaux wood, where
they had reached the German third line.
Gen. Halg resisted the temptation to hold
on to that point, which would have In
curred severe fighting, with probably
heavy losies, In favor of a more method
ical advance.
Evidence received from the front, as
well as tho official map published here,
seems to prove that the German second
line of defences was far less strong and
elaborate than tho tlrst. Military ob
serve believe that the obstacles are
likely to be less dllllcult as the Entente
Allies advance.
A correspondent telegraphing to-day
from tho Urltlsh front nays, "on thut
map of varl-colored patches at head
quarters which shows at a glanco each
day's progress of the offensive, theie l.s
one for to-d.iy's work, to tho hour of
writing so far ns known, north nf Ovil
lers and west of I'ozleres, and another
west of Pozleres.
"Tlie Urltlsh apparently ore following
the aame methods after the second big at
tack nn after the first, fortifying the po
sitions gained, tttiilklug German ma
chine gun detachments, taking needful
Inctlcal loluts nnd feeling tlie.r w.iv
yteni.itlc.illy, while their concentra. Ion
of gunfire give no sign where the In
funtry la going to act next
"It cleared aft'r esterd.iy's rain,
which did not Inlet lupt the ehelllug or
the taking yenlerday nf I, SOU nrds of
a second line trench wen of lMzle-es,
which has been the centre of interest for
the lakt twenty-four hours. Thin village
sits on :i high and commanding posi
tion, and the Hrltlsh have now es
tablished themselves on either side of
Its ruins. Into which they ontliiii'il to.
diy pouring u big volume of t-heltlr"
I's- New Poison Shell.
"The Germans wete sreti ulng for Hie
list time In this uctiou ,i poL-nnous
shell, which doi not explode but MilllH
an asphyxiating gas At 111 "I slcht It
may he mletaken for what Is known ns ,i
'dud,' mi army toiiu for a liell which
iian f lilt d to detonate."
The capture of Ovllleis l,j ti. r,iltii
was iireceiled li one of 111' most s.iu
KUlnaiy encounter" nf the advance
Nevei thcle.ss the itrltlnh weie well re
waided for their elfnit, for thev gained
possession of the broad hlKhw.iy leading
ft'niu Albert to li.ipatiiiie
The village was defended for ten d.ivs
bv two regiments of the Prussian Hu.ud
The correspondent lays that of iIicmi
lentmentN only 12ii men survived nnd all
these were ruptured.
It was at Dvlllerx that the tit It l-lt
offensive, which began July I, was held
up while the remainder of the line was
advancing, From July 7 on the village
wns cut off almost completely trom the
German rear, but It was not until Julv
14 that the desperate resistance of the,
Prussian Guard Wan overcome.
The defenders of the town suffered
from hunter ami Ihlrat, as the lliltlt-li
rut Initi of Are prevented the bringing up
nf fresh supplies. Some of the Germans
are reported to havo been poisoned by
drinking polluted wuter from a pond,
and others to have been driven mad by
the bomliHrdmcnt,
King George sent tho follow ins' tncs.
sage to Gen. Sir Douglas Halg:
"The continued uccen.ful advance of
m troops tills me with iidmlnitlnn, and
I send my best wishes to all rnnkn, The
Emperor of Russia has asked me to can-1
vey his wntm coiwratulatloiiH to the1
Inujis upon the grent Micces they havo
acutcveil, Gf.oiaiK, P., I."
Gen. Halg replied an follows;
"The lliltit.li armies In France offer
most renpectful and grateful thanks for
tills further mark of your Mujest's
gtacloiw appreciation of what thev havo
achieved. They also irepcctfully lieu
that their grateful acknowledgments be
conveyed to the Euipcior of ltliM-la for'
Ills Mujcsty'u congratulations," j
CHARLESTON QUARANTINING . ;
Aunliist ilults as Well as liifnuts
Frnin .N. V. nml other Plncrs.
CllARt kston, S. C, July I s. ()uu,ruii
tlno against New York city and "other
places which have repotted epIileiuUH
uf Infantile, pnrnlysln" was drrlarrd in
day by the city Wind of health,
Adults iir well ns children from in.
fected cltlcH will bo lequlrcil to Niny
In quarantine here for two weeks, the
hoard nnnoimrtd.
NEW YORKERS LEAD
BRITISHJMjACKLIST
Names in "Official Ouzel te
Contain Many Local Firms
and Persons.
PARTNERS BANNED ALSO
Trading Willi Enemy Act
Held by British to Be
Internal Affair.
London. July IS In tho Olflrinl Ga-
:tttc published to-day the names of
American firms and Individuals nro
placed on the blacklist under the trading
with the enemy net. Tho firms have
New York nddresscs unless otherwise
designated, and tho names of tho mem
bers of tho firm or associates black
heted nre printed Immediately after Ihe
linn nam". The llt follows:
Philip llniier Company. US Hroadway
Otto Weluenberg,
licor, h'ondhclmer & Co, 61 Ittoad
way. Zhnniermnnn & Forshay, 9 Wall street
Simon It. Rlnnienthnl, Murvun II.
Houser, Iiuls J. Itees, John S. Scully.
O. C. Knuzow A. Co, II Hroadway
Herman Hut tow, Otto 0. Kanzow.
Ilrasch & HothenstHn. 32 Hroadway
Alf Ilurun, Tlobert W. Howe.
Macl.iren Ai Gentles, 222 Produce Ex
change Maurlcla Hunge. Carton Falk,
Alfredo lllrsch, lilwnrd Stegemann, Jr.
Goldschmldt Chemical Company, CO
Wall street
Goldschmldt Detltinlng Company, 0
Wall street.
Holdvchmldt Thermit Company, fin
West street Franz 11. Tirschland.
Hravenhorat & Co , 9(1 Wall street
C.irl Grublatt H Son, 144 Arch street,
Philadelphia ; 74 Wall street, New York,
and Iloston.
Kn.iuth, Nachod & Kuhne. 120 Hroad-w-iy,
Oscar L. Oubelman, Mary I,
Knnuth. Wilhelm Knnuth.
Charles Hardy, HO Church street.
Hasenclever & Co, 24 State street.
Ilernhardt, Hasenclever & Sochno. 21
Stnte street,
William E Hamburg, 2S Reaver
street.
I
International Hide arid Skin Com
pany, .! Frankfort street.
International Import and Export
Company. 13 South Fourth stroet.
Philadelphia. Armln Czech.
John Simon & Pros., u William
street. J. Is.iacn.
Max Ziff';. jr. William street.
.! A Kahl, S2 Hc.ier Mreet.
II. Kempncr, Cotton Exchange, Gal
veston, Hermann C. Kupper, f.2 Murray street
and .3C est 111th street.
George W. McNcar, 433 California
street, San Francisco.
A. Magonheimer, ti Rroad street.
Marx Maler, 2nn Fifth nvetiuc
.Merchants Colonial Corporation, 4.".
W. Ill im Htreet
Muller. Schall & Co, t:, William
etrtet William Schall. Jr.. Carl Mul
ler, Edmund Parenstrdt, Ernest Muller,
Frederick Muller
Schu.'hnrdt S imtte, n West street.
Ernest .Muller.
.Marls Nurhod, IS William sttr't.
National Zinc i'or;orat!on. lluff.ilo
avenue and Cnlon street, Niagara Falls,
and 2.1 Madison avenue. New York.
E!"C!ru lll-achlng Gis Company, Rich
ard Neuhalls.
K. A- E. NVutnond, 2.1 Uroid street.
I'.olllu C Newton, IS William street.
Norfolk Itetliiiug and Smelting Com
puny. Virginia.
orenstein A IC- ppel. Pennsylvania
Leopold I'erutz. 17 H.ittery place
Petroleum Products Company, San
Francisco.
Renter, Hro.-,l,.lmati a Co., 69 Pearl
street Alfred ltu ht. i
Roissler A. Il.wsi.ieher Chcnilc.il Com
kin. ion William street.
Rubin r and Giiiyule Agency, 10
Water stuet. Paul Siiimltt, JMn.ird
Weber
Towneliil Hiirlimiii e, si Denver street.
S' lii-uktr A Co. 17 llattery place,
William Si ha II. Jr.
G. 1'. Sehli.etelheic:, 3 1 S Gl.tnu build
ing. Seattle
Scliutte, Itun. '111111111 ,t Co. 1.1 William
street.
Slemssen Company, 2 R.-.ivcr street.
I. Soiiueboiii Sons. 2'i2 I'e.irl street.
S utheni l'iiliiets TimiIIiik' Company,
I. 1 W illlam .-tiv. i
Superior Espott Company. ;ifl Wit
st n et.
Texas i:pmi and liopoit i 'ompur.v ,
II. ih eslnii
Ernst I "! Ii'li. 1.1 Wall str. t
Arend II Wi'lug trdt, J ., Wii.l.iin
street.
C.ittowiU A Co . 2 Reaver stteit.
Charles I'ulleii, Oi.ila, Flu
Eugene let.t;eu Comp.in.v. 211 E.mt
Ttteuty-thlnl slieet, and 111'! West Mon
toe. etieet, Chicago.
E. II. Erlattg"!, 0 Wall Miee:.
The hivckllst loutaltilng tin n.iiues of
iiieilcaii individuals ami Huns Ih sui
p.einelltiii ) to a pi ov lously compiled
list In vv libit the other neutral conn
Hies are icpnented.
Ill explaining tile action of the Hilt
Ish Hovel nment. I.anilng Worlhlngton
Evans, rompttollcr of the foreign ttadii
department of the Foliign Olllce, m
centl,v . si il:i in. .1 that tin- ioIlc s
"IHtiti.v ,i 4ee of ilomestie leglslatluu,
which mil) Intel frn' with trade, even
111 the case of the spccllicd conceins, ,v
prohibiting persons domiciled In the
In, ted Kingdom from dealing with
these cotlceriiH."
The iiiniptiollei' i h.ir.ict. i lcd the
llrltlah action us tbe oxerclmi of the
right of the State to limit or mro
the tt.ide ivlatluns of Its own Mlbjects,
The list is m.ide up largely, accoidlng
.o Mi Evans's statement, of German
linns with head olllce.s or contiol in Her
m in; , German firms Incorporated In the
Flitted States who ate alleged to have
assisted Gnat Hrllalu's enemy by loans,
propaganda or with regard to rout in
band, Kissibla agents "for enemy Minis
leiildent In enemy tenltoiy," thoso who
hive abused cable fni littles by tin, eni
ployment of scent .odes in B 'i.itllcii
lar Intetest."
MANY AllM IS'DlGS'AiXT.
(I I lie r tltllelnls of llliiel.ll. ted I'lrois
.Nut Miriii'Ued.
lilllcl.ilH of the (Ittns on the tiadiiii
with the enemy blacklist Issued hv the
lltltlidi Goveiiimctit yestrnliy vveto In
dliuint nnd chaieed that the llritlsli
had Intel fered with their trade u'i
Hons with neutral countries t-1 pre the
outbreak of the war A inajotlty could
offer no ic.isou for being on the list, and
had U"t l'cu untitled.
Tiny drilled, however that their i in
terns, were opciated f i nut Herman), or
with Herman capital, atnl maintained
that the, companies were Incut porated
i in ihii air iijMfi i-iiur. ilium tuiil' . i iii.ti s ,i vm
'GREAT RUSSIAN
ARfflY MOVES UP
I
FOR L1PA CLASH
Kaledine's Left Yiiir Now
i e
on Jliver Crossed by
flouted (Icrnmns.
31 AUKS BEOfXXIXU
OF U1U NEW DlilYE
Jierlin Honrs Withdrawal
Wns Forced by Vastly
Superior Numbers,
AUSTRIAN'S HOLDING
LTNE IN BTKOWTXA
Bilk'r Fighting Is in Prog
ress on 3roldnvn
Hronzn Front.
Rciu.ik, U London, July 18. Tho
Russian opet.itlona west and eouthwe.it
of Lutsk, which began Inst Saturday, ap
parently marked tho beginning of re
newed Important lighting In this sector,
according to retwrtu from war corre.
Fpondents of Rcrlln newspapers.
nie Russians had employed tho com
parattvely outlet period slnco July S In
reenforclng their units and making ro
dlsposltlons of their forces. Especially
largo masses of troops were lu-semblcd
west of Lutsk with tho aid uf tho douhlo
tr.-sck r.iilwajs and two excellent mili
tary roadrt.
The new operation began Saturday
morning with a Russian adv.mr.i from
Torchlu In tho direction nf Sudofr. Th s
met with strong opposition at first and
waa thtown back. .Meanwhile, howcvir,
strong forcrs wern advancing along tint
txjad from Lutsk to Charukoff. The-n
forces encountered tho Austro-German
troops during tho night along the front
from Szklln to Ugrlnoff.
It was quickly apparent that the Aut-rro-Gernwji
forces were facing greatly
superior numbers, nnd a withdrawal of
tho lino was ordeied. This was accom
plished with little disturbance through
the aid nt-a strong attack which held up
tho Russians until the new lino routh vf
the Llpa h.id been llrmly established.
The lighting along the Molihiv.i
llre.tz.i line in the Huknwln.t is re
ported to bo bitter. In hind to hand
conflicts the Austrlnns nre successfully
holding the hue east of th, Hiil.ovvina
border. As In tin; former occupation of
tho Rukowlni tin. llghtn.g .nong tho
Carpathian Heights is i.ik.nc on the
n.iturn of guerrilla vv.ufare There are
constant sl.iitul-lies lutweei patrolling
pirtlej and other small for, t -
Lomki?;, J i.y I -l,ilU-vv t g i i re.
timnciit of lien, von l.in-ingci, s .inn.
to the south bank of the I, p.i. soiitnwest
of Lutsk, Gen. Kileil.no has udvtinceil
Ins left vvit.g as far .is the north ban i
of the ilv r Th n tlreinetit of the
Hermans was dlsordeil,, . .mil as a h .
suit llm Russians raptured s. v nil thou
K.lllil pilsoneis .is we I .is lie.ivy .11 il
lery and iiiilit.uy suppli.
Hen vnti I .liistu-"u's n t n -n t i .. s
the l.ipn Is i on-iil. rr'l bv the . i s ns
liinoving Hi" last Hons ob-i In lo
the nilv.incu' nl tbe R'issi.i luw.tnl
Leinlierc.
Repoits ftotn Rome s.,v -1 i r i ,c e.
tllemelit if tho Teutonic alius ill 1
l.lp.i lias i.nneil a p.m.c n (i.i u i,
where towns nie liclng ivaiu.ii l
Vienna assiits th.it frc't Ri slin al
ticks in tin trrritmy soiulivvt-i of
Lutsk vveie wlt'enit fiicii's. t n s,is
that In ih" 'at pith!. in ng.on near
Z.ilile and Titnunv, Ih" Itus-i.ms in i
pushed Im 11 Austilau a Iv.ince 1 post,
althoiiRh too Austri. ins' n .i u 1 1 tie has
been firmly held.
Stti.ng .itt.u'l. ' vvi-r- mail bv Gen.
Kiirop.ukiii s f,,i,e-. soutn .in I souih
e.ist of Rlgi, on Hi" extn iii" northi ru
s.- Hon of the line. The atta ks bmko
ilown under Herman Hi", a 'onlitis to
lleilln, but It is .i.lin. I'-, I Hi it tlie Kir
si.ins In several ,"stinres .itiluud til t
lino trenches, although Un were ui.
atile to hold tin in.
, .YA'lT DHIVK UAIXIXU.
V ill 11 nee or MrilslloH's left Willi?
Mu l.i's lleuil v u ,
I'liTiioan vo (vli Lnndo.:), i, is .
I Although the Issue uf the Mru ' lie.
tween the opposing f,,t es 1 i;. , . , . , t ,
of the Stokhod ft. II hangs In th I. , -, .,.,
and thcte ha.s liei u iIul-k tne list 'cv
i'.is no issentlal cliatigo In tl -itia-lion
along the main Russian f r t. ho
Rn-si.iiis havo in hleved ilire. . ,,nt
adv.inics at widely scjcir.ili , , o
The tlrst Is the Nueces; ul di -o f .. n
the new qiiaiter .n Volh)n.i, jui w,. w
of Lutsk, "ru y second is nn .i I ,. ,f
tins extrenin southern vv,i ,f t;(
PniKlloll's f'"' I mg tlm v n
e.iJins Into llinguv, ,i-ij ihe ti
I th" liiii'ioved s.i ii..ii-n In ii.- i-i ,
' resulting l rom i'i tt ) it of Ha i c
In th" tltst riioti ii" I;,-- in
' Hons ase n.iw dire, ted a i i r
) win' of Gin. tiM'li'i.frinn i ai ,
tiei'c Sv inlitsky, whit h In'
iililcd gioutid I" fore tie It, ,. I: i-s
an'..lllls. uf tho four Aif to .mil
gtoupH employed .iga.ii-' n-i' f'
furies, lloclin-lhiiol.i s ct - i
the l.i-t .iffecie.l bv 'hi Ri i i ft
sive It II is helil its . ' i ' i if i
against .I'l the Ru i in .it' ii, pis i p i- i
tin to the H.ilit i in f .. t vv i
1'iody. Thn beg i im i 'i- fui'h c
rtite.it of this group. i!ni.foif. is o .
, sub red extremely nnpoti ".'
Willi their .ideal!.',, i . . Ill' Imi.I.
I b .b'i-Marnniai'os-S.li;i t load i.u Kits,
i s'.ins :ire In iio-m ssiuii of tour impor
tant lines leading Into llungaiv.
The taklc . of 1 : 1 1 n 1 1 w !i has lieen
' the s'O.il of the c ntr.il Cut' a.-ns unmet
ieei sln-e tlui fiill Eritiin, his d
fln.tel)' ended accord n to mllltarv
opinion tier", all chances of , s , e ful
Turkish cntiuti r olfetislvc
MI.XISTKlt SAZOS'Oh'h' ILL,
Hussion niploniiit I, lies lo I'lnliiqil
to lliM'iipernlr.
I.ONPON July Is Rr ' l- ii ',
from Petrograd cajs that S v .n Siz i.
I yMtvMil lull. IS t I . . t -. .. !
' J
