11 ""'! 'Wjpwi'i.'g!miiujpj))!awti ""mmm
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituattn
NIGHT
EXTRA
vol. n.-ro. 204
PIIILADETjPIIIA, WEDK1SSDAY, JULY II), 191(3.
Corumnr, 1018, si ini rtiuo Leboki Count
PRICE ONE CENT
s
ii'JiWfeawW'WipwBwiaw'i!!'i'iw1 "'"ww'
M ZwMr AMrJLMr'
m
TEUTONS HALT
DRIVE IN WEST;
REGAIN GROUND
Recapture Longueval and
Delville Wood in Fierce
Counter-attacks
LONDON ADMITS LOSS
Berlin Asserts Anglo-French Of
fensive Hns Been
Checked
berlin, July 13.
Longueval nnd Delvlllo wood havo been
recaptured from tho British by tho Germans,
the War OfTlce announced today.
Longuoval, which was captured by tho
British at heavy cost of Ufo In a resumption
of tho srent Allied offensive, was stormed
and retaken by tho Germans In heavy fight
ing last night. With the capture of Delvlllo
wood It marks ttho greatest success for tho
Germans In tholr counter-attacks on tho
British front slnco tho Allied offenslvo
began.
By recapturing Longueval, tho Germans
not only hold up tho British advance toward
Oapaumo over tno highway from Bray, but
check nny further ndvanco by tho French
north of tho Sommc.
British attacks north of Ovlllers and
south of Posleres, on tho German loft wing,
Were dispersed. French attacks north of
Barloux and In the region of Bclloy-cn-Santcrre
woro checked.
On tho Verdun front tho French continued
their fruitless attacks In tho region of
Froldo Torre.
Following ts tho text of tho War Ofllce
.report:
On tho Somme front tho village of
Longueval and Delvlllo wood, adjoining
it, havo been recaptured from tho
English after fierce fighting by' tho
Magdeburg 20th Infantry. Tho English
lost 8 officers and 280 men In prisoners
and a considerable number of machlno
guns.
. GENERAL HAIG ADMITS
LOSS OF PARTS OF DELVILLE
WOOD AND LONGUEVAL
LONDON, July 19.
The Germans dented tho British lino last
night In their most successful counter-attack
slnco tho-great Allied offensive began.
i Tho rccapturo of th'o vlllaga of Longue
i val, at tho Intersection of two highways,
. seven mites south of Bnpaume, and of Del
ville wood was claimed In an official state
ment Issued by the German War Ofllce
this afternoon.
An official report from General Hafgr ad
mitted tho Germans had obtained a footing
In northern outskirts of Longueval and had
recaptured part of Delville wood., Tho
battle Is continuing. ' General Halg, re
ported, and has become very violent.
Tho Germans hurled large forces against
the British right wing at about dusk, after
on Intensa bombardment of Longueval vil
lage and tho Delvlllo wood. As the Ger
man guns lifted thick masjes of German
Infantrymen advanced to the attack. They
swarmed forward in tho face of sheeted
machine-gun and rifle fire, ami according
to tho British official report suffered very
heavy losses. Further east repeated Ger
man attacks ugalnst the Waterlot farm
were repulsed.
Thus far the new battle north of the
Sommo Is being confined largely to, the
British right wing, Tho German official
statement claimed the repulse of attempts
by the British left to draw closer to the
village of Posleres and also announced the
defeat f French attacks southwest of Pe
ronne. The following Is the text of the British
War Office report:
Tho enemy's attack last night (the
beginning of which has already been
reported In the midnight communique)
was directed against our-new positions
eastward of Bazentln Village. The
' largest available supply of German re
inforcements had been collected. Tfcis
attacK was launcnea niter intense artll-
Continued on Faze Two, Column Seven
THE WEATHER
Many of us are selfish without knowing
It. It Is true that often we do things for
others when actuated only by a desire to
shine n a philanthropic limelight. And
sometimes It happens that the fa,vor which
Wo bestow on one causes unhapplness to
others. Right in, our midst at the present
time several persons in officialdom have been
temporarily thrown out of employment.
The question has been raised generally In
this neighborhood "Were they sacrificed"
to glvo favorite friends jobs? Let us hope
not. It is very difficult to please nearly two
million persons all at the same time. But
It seems that Just about two years ago therg
was no such revolution going on In our
midst. Perhaps It was due to the fact; that
there was no cause for It.
Yes, It was a very pleasant month of
July, despite the normal heat.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia, and vicinity Gen
erally cloudy tonight and Thursday,
with probably shower a; moderate tem
peratures; increasing northeast to
north winds,
LENGTH Of DAY,
Sun rliei..,.
ua iota. . .
4:47 a. m. I Moon rl.
fl XT n m
i -u p, ra.
Woon ouths 3 43 a m.
' DELAWARE IUVKR TIDE CHANCES.
CHESTNUT 8TREET
tilth water. 4JTt. n I Jllch wuUr B.OOp m.
Low water tlXS a. m. 4Lowirater 12.1$ a. m,
(tomorrow)
TE5IPKUATURE AT EACH IIOVU.
Bl 111 1U
Ul U
71 J I .j I
TFS
71 I 751 77
boy sn
531 S3 1 63 4
i
LOST AND FOUND.
DEEDS Lot. deed In the nam bf Win U.
H Wrat. for lot N'o. S3 and In CUa name at
Jimu West, -xvcutor for L No I 01, both la
Section 41. Mount Uotlah CcmeUio. Applica
tion baa been made for duplicate, doedj Its
turn to Edward V Wee! norWwest corner
17th and Sanaom t (
DOJ Ujji labia Pomeranian dosoa -ch In
Iami labia Pomeranian aos ?" .eacn in
, of Hotel Cheliea Atlantic CIO. Monday,
ro to T StieJly 8 MoitPm Y.. At
cliy N J '
rroot
Iteiurn
untie
Otaer I-o-t
'I r
-. en. Has It
PAGODA PARASOL
Thoto by I. N. S.
This novelty, exhibited for the first time nt the Larchmont, N. Y.,
Yacht Club races yesterday, is declared to be tho forerunner of a new
fad for sunshade oddities which will prevail this season.
SLAVS BATTER
GATES LEADING
INTO HUNGARY
Russians Hammer Carpa
thian Passes Smash
Austrian Line
ATTACK BOEHM-ERMOLLI
PETROORAD, JUly 19.
,For the first time slnco the Russian re
treat from the Carpathians more than a
year ago Russian forces are again ham
mering at the 'Carpathian mountain passes
barring the way Into Hungary.
On a 00-mlle front, extending from the
Jablonltza pass In a southeasterly direc
tion to near Klrllbaba, Russian and Aus
trian detachments aro In constant clash.
The main Russian army Is rapidly draw
ing near tho Austrian barrier.
After vain efforts to bring up artillery
over tho muddy mountain roads the Aus
trlans have fallen back from the region
southwest of Kuty and nro retreating Into
the mountains. The Austrian line has been
completely broken In the Delatln section,
20 miles north of Jablonltza pass.
New battles are developing In Volhynla
and Galtcla, where the Russians aro ad
vancing with Inexorable steadiness against
their two main objectives Lemberg and
the Hungarian plains. All of tho German
reserves that can be spared from the Rus
sian front are being sent Into Galtcla In an
effort tp save Lemberg.
A new engagement has opened along the
LI pa River, where the Germans retired
from their positions southwest of Lutsk be
fore the powerful thrust of General Kale-
dines' forces. The new German positions
nro under heavy shelt-flre from artillery
which the Russians hastily moved to their
front.
Russians are at grips with the army of
General Boehm-Ermolll. which retired from
Dubno at the beginning of the Russian
offensive, and a strong effort Is being made
to drive these Austro-German forces be
yond Brody, on the Gallclan frontier.
TEUTON COMMANDERS STILL
YIELDING GROUND BEFORE
SLAVS ON LOWER LJPA
LONDON, July 19;.
The swift march of events along the bat
tle line from Riga to the heart of the Car
pathians Is stirring London to its depths.
As the dally 'bulletins record success after
success for the Russian arms amazement
and admiration Increase.
Southwest of Lutsk the forces of Generals
yon Llnslngen and Boehm-Ermolll, ma
terially weakened and demoralized by the
powerful Russian thrust which hurled them
across the Lower Llpa, are still yielding
ground before furious assaults to which,
there la apparently noend.
Before the Teuton can recover from the
shock of one attack another and another
are launched and heavy and Unlit artillery
alike are abandoned before the overwhelm
ing onslaughts of the Russians. Machine
guns, loaded and ready to fire, ahe surround
ed by Brusslloft's troops before they can be
Continued on l'aie Tt, Column Two
SHARK SEEN IN OYSTER BAY
Ten-Footer Frightens Bathers Ne,ar
Colonel Roosevelt' Residence
OYSTER BAY, N. Y-. July 19. Captain
Dan Smith today is scoujln? the waters of
Oyster Bay In search of a shark which yes
terday drove Mrs. J Stuart BUckton and
her children from the water.
The fin- of a 10-foot shark was reported by
Sirs. BUckton as appearing but 60 yards off
shore. She gave the alarm In sufficient time
for her chlldren and two truests, Miss
Marion Blackton and Miss Gertrude Casey,
to hurry from the water. The Blackton
estate adjoins that of Colonel Roosevelt.
(t
THE MUCKER
it
ANEW story of "the man with a
yellow streak" is printed on page
9 of this edition.
FASHION'S LATEST
BRITAIN IGNORED
U. S. IN PLANS FOR
TRADE BLACKLIST
Nation Not Taken Into Con
fidence and Will Not
Submit Calmly
"VIOLATION OF RIGHTS"
By JOHN EDWIN NEVIN
WASHINGTON, July 19. The United
States will not calmly submit to a British
boycott nnd blacklisting of American mer
chants. Acting Secretary of State Polk
mado this emphatically plain today In dis
cussing tho new British boycott .find" black
list. Ho also explained that, while Great
Britain had made public Its blacklist of
Individuals and firms who aro not to be
permitted to transact business within Brit
ish dominions, bo far It had failed to take
this Government Into its confidence In an
nouncing the program.
Secretary polk said ho was ready to act
now on the unofficial information In his
hands, but that he would wait a "reason
able time" a couplo of days at the out
side for Great Britain to tell this Gov
ernment what It has done and why,
"Wo will make formal Inquiry," said the
acting secretary, "and If we fiend the facts
as already presented, and the principle
Involved, as It now appears to be, wo will
enter a strong and vigorous protest against
this breach of the rights of tho United
States."
Other officials took a similar view of the
situation. They declared that the British
blacklist as already Indicated In the cables
from London, Is such a flagrant violation
of the rights of Americans and an attack
upon American trade 'rights that. If Great
Britain attempts to defend It, as now
seems certain, thl3 Government will be
compelled to consider retaliatory legislation,
although the latter probably will have to
be put over until the short session starting
In December.
Meanwhile the Federal Trade Commls-
Continued on race Two, Column Fit I
NEGRO MEETS DEATH
IN SANDBIN; FOUR HURT
Victim Smothered in Accident at
Contracting Supply
Plant One man was smothered to death and
four others narrowly escaped a blmilar
fate In a sand bin, when they were sucked
toward a chute at the P. H. Falrlamb con
tracting supply plant, 115 South 30th
street,at noon today.
The dead man Is Oeoree Davis, a negro,
46 years old, of 1833 Addison street. The
injured are John Snyder, of 2330 South
Rosewopd street; Luke Brannan, of Han
som and 33d streets; Joseph Matthteu, of
1020 Annln street, and Alfred Sivlggert, of
2215 Kater street.
Officials of the Falrlamb concern say the
accident was due to the action of Joshua.
Washman, driver for another firm, disre
garding a, signal that there was trouble
above.
Washman, It Is said, on reaching the yard
drew up directly under the chute and pulled
the lever, releasing the Band.
Davis and his companions were In the bin,
which contained about 100 tons of sand
Davis was standing n the centre of the
bin and was the first to go down when
Washman pulled the lever below.
The other four men were standing on the
sldea of the bin. Brannan and Matthleu
were also completely submerged, but Snyder
and Swlggert managed to stop themselves
as the sand reached their shoulders. Work
men extricated them and then they rescued
Brannan and Matthleu. When Davis was
found he was dead.
The recovery of Brannan and MatthltuJ
won Hum tr thit wnrlt nf n nnlmnlnii fwim
the Unlvers'ty Hospital As soon as the
accident was dUcoveied the ambulance was
tent for Doctor Cleramens. who treated.)
the men, said that Dal3 only lived a. mUv
uta or so after Ulag submerged.
TENDERLOIN DULL
ONLY ON SURFACE;
'SAME OLD PLACE'
Glasses Tinkle and Lights
Burn on the Side
Streets
"LAUGHS UP SLEEVE"
Many Visitors Express the Be
lief That It Is "All Over
Now"
Tho Tenderloin wan suppressed last night
on tho surface. But underneath It Is
laughing nt Saturday night's raid.
Thcto was nn unusual nllenco In that
gilded strip of Chinatown, the show block
of tho section, No pianos tinkled nnd
laughter was 'scarce.
In front of tho glittering restaurants
thero uere scores of Chlncso pulling their
pipes peacefully. They wore mnrtyr-llke
expressions nnd gazed sheepishly nt thoso
who passed. Many with nrms burled deeply
In the wldo sleeves of their iilouscs mumbled
to each other. There wero so ninny sitting
about that one might hao thought they
came out to exhibit In public their humilia
tion over tho strong arm of tho law.
Those Mho went to tho Tenderloin on
what Is known ns "slumming" trips found
tho place and Its residents very contrite.
Many of these visitors had heard of tho
wholesato raid of Saturday.
They looked knowingly nt each other.
Many expressed tho belief that It wao "all
over now." Some said It had to come.
These wero tho stray visitors who know
only tho bright-light block on Itaco street
from 8th to 9th Btreet.
GAY SCENES IN SALOONS.
But In many of tho saloons and In the
back streets, whero friendly shndows nnd
criss-cross alleys afford quick egress from
ono street to another, tho sceno was. alto
gether different. It was tho same old Ten
derloin. The scene was tho same as It was a
month ngo. Girls sat and ogled visitors
Many Bmokcd cigarettes and drank, nnd
when asked If they were not afraid on ac
count of the big raid on Saturday night,
laughed loudly.
At ono saloon near 12th and Vine streets,
which Is regarded ns "the" place of tho
section. It was learned through the com
ment of the "guests" that no one was con
sidering tho raid seriously. Two visitors
who entered this place rece'vod a greeting
smile from two gaily dressed girls at a
table. One of them said eho was 18 years
old. t'No ono Is thinking much about the
raid,") sho continued, "becauso there "
"Oh, there's got to be raids once In
a while," yawned the other girl.
And she gave her a glance of sisterly pity
for her Ignorance.
"You know a lot about It, don't you?'1
snapped tho first girl.
"Oh, forget It," said the other.
DRINKING AND SMOKING.
That seemed to be tho sentiment of others
wha sat around tho tables. They drank and
they talked to their escorts, laughing oc
casionally over tho Incident of Saturday,
A waiter, noticing the strangers, sud
denly cut off their beer supply and said In
loud, conscientious tones, "I cannot serve
beer to yer an' yer'll have to take sherry."
The girls smiled knowingly. "All right,"
they said, "bring the sherry and a couple
packs of cigarettes with It."
After they were served they and their
escorts, whom they had never seen before,
left the saloon, j
Shortly before midnight, when well-
dressed visitors started to nppear hesitat
ingly In the darkened section on 12th street
above Vine and 12th street above Arch,
many women emerged from their haunts
Some spoke cautiously as they passed tho
strangers and walked with them. Others
stepped boldly on the street and showed by
their attitude that they ,iad given little
thought to the recent dragnet raid
On Marvlne street. between 11th and
Continued on Fac Two, Column Kflur
ARRAIGN DOCTOR WHO
SHOT ACCUSED MAN
Police Probe Death of Prisoner's
Sweetheart, Who Implicated
Victim
BOSTON', July 19. While the body of
Dr. Cella P. Adams, of Brookllne, lies In
the North-Groe street morgue awaiting
an autopsy to ascertain if death was caused
by an overdose of morphine, taken with
suicidal Intent, her fiance, Dr KIdridge De
lorle Atwood, of Woburn, was arraigned In
the Municipal Court today, accused of
shooting. In an attempt to kill, Dr Wilfred
D. Harris, president of. the Massachusetts
College of Osteopathy, yesterday.
Doctor Atwood pleaded not guilty and
was held In $15,00(1 bond until July 28.
Doctor Atwood alleges his fiancee con
fessed that Doctor Harris had betrayed her
She is alleged to have told Doctor Atwood
that It would be Impossible for her to marry
him.
Since the arrest of Doctor Atwood the'
oung physician has appeared cool through
out the visit to (he hospital and the cross
examination at the Back Bay police sta
tion, f
It was reported at the City Hospital to
day that the three bulets which lodge In
Doctor Harris' body would probably prove
fatal a
- The story of the probable double tragedy
Btartea jupnaay rugni. wnen uotpr Adams,
the Brookllne osteopath. Is alleged to have
confessed to Doctor Atwood
24 Women Electe4 to Finnish Diet
LONDON, July 19 t-A ReuUr dispatch
from Fetrcgrad says 24 women have been
elected to the Vtnulsh. Diet Tn4 repre
sent 12 per cent f the entire membership.
QUICK NEWS
AMERICAN LEAGUE
DETROIT, 1st k ...O 1 O O O 1 -
BOSTON O 7 O O 1 O -
Dnuss ami Stnnagc; Mays and Thomas.
ST. LOUIS, lot g... OOOOOO '
NEW YORK O 0 2 0 0 3
Xoobo nnd Haitlcy; Russell and Nunamaken
CHICAGO, 1st &....0 10 2 '
WASHINGTON.... 0 10 0
t Wolfgang and Sclialk; Ayies ami Henry.
NATIONAL LEAGUE
BROOKLYN, 1st g..O 0 0 0 0 0
PITTSBURGH 1 0 0 0 0 0 ' '
EMPIRE CITY RACING RESULTS
Th-st race, 2-ycnr-olds, selling, with 9'JOO added, fj 1-2 furlongs
, King Baggot, 111, Taplki, 1 to 12 nnd out. won; Moonlighter, 101,
J. KcTaggait, 15 to 1, 0 to 5 and 1 to 5, second', Doc Meal, 102,
HUgltcs, 100 to 1, CO to 1 and 4 to 1, tlilicl. Tims, l.OS.
SENATE GETS BILL TO PUBLISH INCOME TAXES
WASHINGTON, July 10. Senator Polndcxter today introduced
a bill. to make public all Income tax letuins. He has been assured of
Etipnoit in the Finance Committee for a proposal to incorporate t'le
idea in the general revenue bill now bcfoic thai committee. Senator
John Shaip Williams, chairman of the subcommittee on income tax,
naitl ho "never could sec any seme" in keeping income tax return.-,
any moic scciet than any other tax returns.
TEUTON LOSS 450,000 IN ALLIES' DOUBLE OFFENSE
GENEVA, July 19. Slnco tho Russians began their offenslvo on tho eastern
front and tho Allies began their tlrlvo on the western front, the Germans and Austro
Itungarlnns have lost approximately 450,000 men In killed, wounded and prisoners,
It la estimated by military experts. These losses aro divided as follows: 150,000 Ger
mans on tho western front; 300,000 Germans and Austro-Hungarlans on tho eastern
front.
$70,000 APPROPRIATED FOR POSTOFFICE HERE
Seventy thousand tlollarn havo been provided for In the oundry civil bill to
mako tho necessary improvements at the local postofllco, according to n letter re
ceived today from Washlnston by Thomas P. Johnson,- superintendent of malls,
rifty thousand dollars of this amount will be expended for mall-handling devices
and tho remainder for vnrlous Interior Improvements. This appropriation does not
do away with the necessity of a new postofllco building, according to tho local post
ofllco officials.
ASQUITH TO MOVE ANOTHER VOTE OF CREDIT
LONDON. July 19. Next week's sessions of Parliament will be of great im
portance. Premier Asqulth announced today that another vote of credit would bo
moved nnd that the homo rule amendment bill would be Introduced In Commons.
BARON SHIBUSAWA, "MORGAN OF JAPAN," RETIRES
TOKIO, July 19. Baron El-Ichl Shlbusawa, the famous financier known ns tho
"J. Plerpont Morgan of Japan," today announced his retirement from business llfo.
He Is 76 years old. The baron has been a leader In Japan's financial and commercial
llfo for many years. He always advocated a policy of friendship between the United
States and his own couptry.
GERMAN AIRMEN SHELL CZARINA'S HOSPITAL
LONDON, July 19. German aviators dropped -10 bombs on tho Empress Alex
andra Keodorovna's hospital on the Dvlnsk front, killing several Inmates, says an
Exchange Telegraph dispatch from Petrograd today.
TOWN REPORTED SWEPT AWAY IN SOUTHERN FLOOD
COLUMHIA, S. C, July 19. Sensational reports have reached hero of the
sweeping away of tho town of Chimney Roqk, N, C, by tho recent flood, statins
that tho hundred and fifty Inhabitants havo not yet been found. Rescue parties
who nttempted to ko to the btene could not get tliero because of the swift current
of Broad River. Many of the houses had been swept away and no sign of llfo could
be found.
GERMANY PREPARES TO RESUME MAILS WITH U. S.
GENEVA, July 19. Germany is so confident pf establishing- a postal service
with tho ITnlted States with her merchant submarines that the authorities are com
piling regulations and rates of charges, according to tho Munich Nachrlchten.
U-BOATS SINK TWO SHIPS IN MEDITERRANEAN
.LONDON, July 19. Lloyd's today announced that the Greek steamship Evan
gesllstrla, 2312 tons, and the Italian steamship Angelo, 3609 tons, had been Bunk, It
is supposed they weie destioyed by submarines In the Mediterranean Sea. ' The crews
of both vessels were baved.
QUERETARO FLOODS GROW WORSE; 200 DROWNED
MEXICO CITY, July 19. Floods which havo already drowned 200 persons Jn
the district about Qucretaro' are becoming worse, according to official dispatches
received today. Thousands of families, driven from their homes, have sought refuge
at Queretaro, overtaxing the resources of the city.
THREE RUSSIAN TRANSPORTS SUNK IN BLACK SEA
CONSTANTINOPLE, July 19. Tlnee Russian transports have been sunk in the
eastern part of the Black Sea by submarines and a fourth was forced to run ashore,
the Turkish Ministry of Marine announced today.
SPANISH RAILWAY STRIKE SETTLED BY ARBITRATION
MADRID, July 19. The national railway strike, the aspect of which became
so serious last week that martial law was proclaimed throughout the kingdom,
has been settled by arbitration. A majority of the men have returned to work,
and passenger service is rapidly becoming norm-' Th strike was settled largely
through the efforts of King Alfonso.
FRANQE SUMMONS MEN OF 47 TO 48 YEARS
PARIS, July 19. The Government has called to the colors a part of the olast.
of 1888, men from 47 to 48 years old, except those In munitions faatprles and, foi
the present, farmers and farm laborers who are busy with tho harvest,
350-POUND SHARK CAUGHT NEAR CAPE MAY
Sharks are now being caught at the mouth of Delaware Bay and within six miles
of Cape May, At noon Monday the men on the pllotboat Philadelphia caught a
shark weighing 350 pounds and about 10 feet lone only two miles north of the
Overfalls lightship.
SENATOR EDWIN H, VARE KEEPS 54TH BIRTHDAY
Senator Edwin H. Vara is celebrating hi 54th birthday today. He Ispendlmr
the day with bis family at the country home at Ambler and will enjoy a family birth
day dinner tonight,
JAIL BREAKER'S
YOUTHFUL WIFE
HELD FOR PLOT
Woman Who Forgive Him
for Deserting Her Ac
cused as Accomplice '
PURCHASED HIS WEAPON
Gave, Gun to Husband That
Murdered "Other Woman'
Who Left Him
GEORGE E. THOMPSON
Partner with Wilson T. Ashbridjro
in Camden jail delivery. A re
ward of S500 is offered for Wo
arrest
Description of Fugitive
From Camden County Jail
GEORGE E. THOMPSON, ji'.ud
Frnnk Murphy 11 years old;
175 pounds; 5 feet 7 inches. First
and second fingers missing from left
hand. Light complexion, dark brown,
bushy hair mixed with gray. Gray
eyes; nenrsightcd nnd can't see with
out glasses. When last seen he Vore
brown suit, Panama hat, light shirt
and brown shoes. I
Mrs. Marian Ashbrldge, who provided her
husband, a murderer, with the revolver ho
used Monday to kill Turnkey Isaac Hlbbs
before escaping from t,he Camden County
Jail, was committed to prison without ball
today to await the action of the Grand
Jury,
The Grand Jury will not convene until
September.
By a curious coincidence, Ilecorder Glenn
O. Stackhouse, who committed the woman
after n brief hearing In Camden City Hall,
Is the man who married her to Wilson T.
Ashbrldge She Is only 22, he Is 27,
This morning's hearing took only five
minutes. There was only one witness. Cam
den's chief of defectives. William Schregler.
He told how he arrested her In the Key
stone Hotel, In Chester, how she confessed
to him that last Friday she purchased the
revolver from a pawnbroker at 11th and
Arch streets. Philadelphia, and how she gave
It to her husband the next day. He also
told how the pawnbroker had come to Cam
den and Identified her as the purchaser.
While he testified Mrs. Ashbrldge sat
nervously In her chair, alternately tapping
the floor with her foot and the ami of her
cha r with her harid. She sat with her
right hand cupping hir chin.
ACCUSKD AS ACCOMPLICE.
The charge of furnishing the revolver
was supplemented by one of helping both
her husband and George W, Thompson. Ml
clever accomplice, to escape,
MrB. Ashbrldge was summoned at 10-4S
a, m. She came Into a crowded courtroom
from a side alcove; she wore no hat and
was neatly but Inexpensively dressed (n
a white shirtwaist and a dark skirt, but
with extremely modish boots. Besides her
wedding ring she wore two pieces of
Jewelry, a ring with a ruby stone and a
plain gold barpln.
She was not asked to testify, and had
no counsel to direct her. The proceeding
were wholly In the hands of the Recorder
and the Prosecutor, Who was In this case
A De Unger.
No friends were with her, not ven her
children. Her husband, of course, was back
In the Jail he escaped frpm when be killed
the turnkey and severely wounded Keeper
13111s.
Withal, though, the atmosphere of the,
courtroom was decidedly sympathetic Th
spectators were made up of the generally
curious, and uf the crowd few had any spe
clflo Interest In the case.
Mfe, Ashbrldge avoided the gaze, of the
lookers-on. and apparently was glad that
her commitment was rushed through so
hastily. The prosecution a mply wanted to
present enough evidence to hold the, prU
oner foMhe Grand Jury, and .when thut had,
been accomplished the thing was considered,
done,
There U no other formal action nchedale.
for today.
BODY FOR UNIVERSITY.
The letter Thompson left in his 11 wa
made public Jn full today. It shows the
tmaglnatlori in Thompson Jlfe; he foresee
nls probable deth In njs'lght and directs
that If h U killed the Utdv-rsity of Pena
sjlvanla. should get bis body, minus eaouji
skin to cover a tests meat which he wauu
hla wlf. one of the Manchus, to get, TkJ
la 1 Utter .
To wbw y eonseru AsMjjrid
1
1
1
I
iK""-1 --
:" iTJV-Tpfenwtf-h. i-
