VOL. LXXIX, NO. 50 WHOLE NO. 4122.
COMMENCED AUGUST 8, 1837.
The Berry-Ball Dry Goods Co.
New Middy
Biooses
Plain White, Pink and white Stripe, Blue
'and White Stripe, Plain White with Rose or Cop.
Collar, Cuff and Belt. Plain White with Stripe
Collar, Cuff and Belt of Pink and Blue. All sizes
6 years to 42 size. Prices $ 1 .00, $ 1 .50 and
$2.00.
Wash Dresses. Wash Skirts.
Voile Waist, New Model, $1.50 and $2.00.
Dust Coats
All Linen $3.75.
PALM BEACH CL0TH--$5.50, $10
New Leather Hand Bags
In different leathers Pin Seal, Matt India,
Angora Pin, Saron Grain, Persian Morocco, All
Colors. $1.00 to $5.00.
The Berry-Ball Dry Goods Co.
A BANK,
Like the Individual, Must Live
and Be Known By Its
Reputation
We endeavor to be ravorably known
Careful Management insuring Safety of Principal.
Liberal Dividends to Depositors 4 compounded emi-annually.
Prompt and Courteous attention to busiress, whether by mail or
at our window.
And to do our part to assist the small Depositor to a start to
wards habits of thrift. To this end we receive deposits of $1.00 and
upwards.
Passumpsic
St. Johnsbury, Vermont
PASSU3IPSIC CON'G'L CLUB.
Midsummer Gathering on the Shores
of Caspian Lake.
The Passumpsic Congregational
club, which has had a long period of
inactivity, took a new lease of life
Tuesday when some 25 of Its mem
bers attended a midsummer meeting
at Caspian Lake in Greensboro. The
principal speakers at the gathering
were two of the secretaries of the
Congregational Home Missionary so
ciety. Rev. Dr. C. E. Burton and Rev.
Dr. H. F. Swartz, both of New York,
who are spending the summer at
North Hero. These gentlemen held
an informal conference with the cler
gymen in attendance at the morning
session, followed by a luncheon at the
Congregational -church, where the
meeting was held.
At the afternoon session both gen
tlemen outlined the proposed plans
for the celebration of the tercentary
of the landing of the Pilgrims, which
will be properly observed in 1920. Dr.
Burton spoke of the various move
ments leading up to this celebration
that had been planned by the nation
al council. Dr. Swartx spoke more in
detail along the same lines, speaking
of the plan to raise a fund of at least
$3,000,000 for denominational pur
poses within the next four years, of
the anticipated growth in the mem
bership of the churches, and of spe
cial work that would be done
throughout the country to Interest the
Christian people In a religious awak
ening. At a brief business session it was
decided to hold the annual meeting
V
Savings Bank
of the club in October, probably at
St. Johnsbury, when a vote would be
taken as to continuing the organiza
tion. Following an excellent supper,
served by the ladies of the church.
Rev. E. G. French .presided at the
postprandial exercises and short and
wittv snpprhM worA maYa Kv Pair
C. F. Carter of Hartford, Prof. Giljf
lette of the Hartford Theological
Seminary, and Rev. Allan A. Stock
dale of Toledo, all summer residents
at Greensboro.
St. Johnsbury was represented at
the gathering by Rev. and Mrs. F. B
Richards, Rev. Dr. C. H. Merrill and
wife, Mrs. Abbie J. Balch, Arthur F.
Stone and Miss Stone, Mr. and Mrs.
P. F. Hazen and Miss Helen L.
Graves, the secretary of the club.
Church Picnic Thursday.
The North church picnic and out
ing will be held in G. C. Cary's grove
on Thursday if the weather Is suit
able, if not the next pleasant day.
Automobiles will start from the
church at 9 o'clock.
The porch party of the North
church will be held on Friday after
noon at 2.30 at the home of Mrs. H.
H. Carr, 105 Main street.
The South church women will have
a porch party on Friday afternoon at
3 o'clock at Mrs. Eaton's, Woman's
club house.
Masons Elect Beck Treasurer.
At the regular meeting of the Pas
sumpsic lodge, No. 27, A. F. and A.
M., Thursday evening, Fred C. Beck
was elected treasurer of the lodge to
fill the vacancy caused by the decease
of C. A. Calderwood.
by:
FRATERNAL MEETINGS
Paaaampale Lodge, So. 27. F. A. M.
Regular Communication Thursday even
ing, August 10.
F. W. Jackson, W. M.
D. R. Colb, Secretary.
Baaweil Royal Arch Chapter. Jin.' 11.
Stated Convocation Friday evening, July
21 at 7.30 o'clock. Work M. M. M. Degree
Raymond A. Pearl, B.H.P.
Fbbd G. Mooei, Secretary.
Palestine Commander?, No. 5, K. T.
Stated Conclave Tuesday evening, July
11.
Blwin A. Silsbt, Em. Commander.
Bail D. Bvans, Recorder.
The Niwim of Natural Science.
Open week days 912 A. M., 1 i. P. M.
Sundays 2.30 to 6 P. M.
All visitors welcomed.
St. Johnsbury Athenaeum.
IIBKAHT KBADINO lOOU ART CiLLgIT
o'clock to 9 o'clock each week day, Wed
nesday evenings excepted.
3 o'clock to 5 o'clock Sundays.
All are Invited.
LOCAL NOTICES
(Notices will be inserted in this
column in reading matter type at the
rate of ten cents a line for the first
Insertion and five cents a line for sub
sequent insertions of the same copy.)
Grace Unity Club will hald a food
sale Saturday, July 22, at 2 p. m. in
vestry of Grace Methodist church.
Bread, pastry and fish cakes will be
on sale.
The W. H. M. S. of the South
church hold a food sale in the vestry,
Saturday, July 22, from 2 to 5 o'clock
Dr. Doyle and family are in camp
at Lake Willoughby for three weeks
and his office will be closed.
D. A. R. Entertainment.
Under the auspices of the D. A. R.
Miss Margaret Merrill is arranging a
pageant to be given at Brantview
August 2 and 3. "The Revels of Old
Stratford" will include a series of por
trayals of village life of Shakespeare's
time and some scenes from his plays.
Those who saw the plays given at
Brantview and Elmwoode under Miss
Merrill's direction will not wish to
miss this attractive program, which
will be more fully outlined next week.
Miss Bertha Wesselhoeft Swift of
Boston, soprano, and teacher of sing
ing, will spend the summer in this
vicinity and will commence teaching
the first week in July. Her address
will be 88 Main street. 3t
First class seven-passenger auto for
hire. C. E. Sparhawk, Phone 336-W.
Mrs. A. E. Grow, foot specialist,
will be in town Thursdays, Fridays
and Saturdays only until September
25. Adv.
Try the new College Ice, "Ruby
Flop" at Searles Soda Fountain.
From May to September The Cale
donian Office will be closed Saturday
afternoons. Bring in your business
Saturday morning.
Fairbanks Coffee, sold by A. H.
Gleason, 73 Main street. -
If you need a monument or any
lettering done In cemetery write or
call 534M. J. E. Walker.
ST. J. GIRL DROWNED
Miss Florence Anderson Loses Life at
Y. W. C. A. Camp in Michigan
Id ved Here Until 7 Years Ago.
Notice has been received of the
drowning at Lansing, Mich., of Miss
Florence Anderson, a former St.
Johnsbury girl, and the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Carl H. Anderson of
Dallas, Texas.
The telegram received here told of
the drowning and that the remains
were on the way to this place in the
care of her aunt. Miss Clara Ander
son. Miss Anderson at the time of the
accident was engaged in Chautauqua
work in connection with the Young
Women's Christian Association and it
was while at one of the Y. W. C. A.
camps that the accident occurred.
She was born in St. Johnsbury in
September, 1889, and graduated from
the graded schools, in town and then
attended the St. Johnsbury Academy
until she left here with her parents
seven years ago. She finished her ed
ucation in a school at Dallas, Texas,
where, after graduating she entered
Y. W. C. A. work.
Her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Carl H.
Anderson, were residents of St. Johns
bury for many years, settling here
in 1867 and remaining more or less
until seven years ago, when they went
to Dallas, Texas.
The body is expected to arrive on
the 2.45 train Wednesday and will be
taken to the cemetery vault until
further plans for interment can be
made.
PEXX. R. R. MEN" TEST SCALES
Six Here in the Interest of Their Road
All Prove Satisfactory
Six representatives of the trans
portation, engineering and motor de
partments of the Pennsylvania railr
road are in town testing the new
scale built by the Fairbanks Co. It
is understood that as far as is known
the new scale is the only one of Its
kind in the world, the construction
of which involves a new principle of
operation. It is what is known as a
plate fulcrum track scale of the two
section principle.
Those in the party are A. H. Haf
ner. F. M. Basher, H. B. Houston, Jo
seph C. O'Donnell, K. H. Barry and
A. "W. Epright all of Altonna, Pa.
The calibrating test was conducted
Tuesday and it is expected will be
finished Wednesday. The tests thus
far have proved highly satisfactory to
the railroad representatives.
Miss Mildred Thomas visited rela
tives In Sheffield recently and her
cousin. Miss Luba Barber spent last
week with her at her home in Arlington.
Y CHOSEN I TH
FELCH MURDER TRIA
Case of State Against Otis Williams of Topsham and Dead
Mans Wife For Complicity In Shooting of April 22
Stirs Orange County and Is Expected to Be Most Ab
sorbing In Annals of Criminal Proceedure Panel of 24
Talismen Nearly Exhausted
BOTH CALMLY PLEAD NOT GUILTY
State's Opening Intimates That It Will Attempt to Prove Intimacy Be
tween the Accused and a Desired Freedom From Conjugal Bonds As
, a Motive Two Witnesses On Stand Tuesday Show Photographs
and Plans of Scene of Crime Trial Is Expected To Last At Least 10
Days Believed Defense WiU Be Suicide
(Special to The Caledonian.)
Chelsea, July 18. Whatsis expected to be the most absorbing mur
der trial in the annals of Orange county criminal procedure was well
under way here today. The jury in the case of State vs. Otis Williams
of Topsham, charged with murder in the first degree for alleged com
plicity in the death of Joseph Felch April 22, was empanelled before
noon after a panel of 24 talismen had been nearly exhausted.
In the Opening by the prosecution it was intimated that the state
would attempt to show intimacy between the accused man and the wife
of the deceased and the possibility of a motive on their part to be free
from conjugal bonds. The state did not say, however, that it would
attempt to prove who fired the shot that killed Felch.
Both Williams and Mrs. Felch were calm and unagitated today
when they entered pleas of not guilty.
Orange county is stirred as it has not been in years and the court
room was filled with eager spectators although the trial has not pro
ceeded to the interesting stage. It is expected that the case will take
at least 10 days.'
Two witnesses took the stand today. Fred Adams of Bradford
showed a number of photographs showing the sugarhouse and sur
roundings where the body of Felch was found. The other witness was
Civil Engineer Myron Buck of Bethel who showed plans of the sugar-,
house and its position as to the farm house and the house of Williams.
Mr. Buck was on the stand when court adjourned until tomorrow.
The Jury.
Examination of talismen, begun
Monday afternoon, was continued this
forenoon with the result that the fol
lowing jurymen were selected:
H. H. Titus of West Fairlee, retlr
ed. Jesse M. Benjamin of Strafford,
employe of the Vermont Copper Co.
P. W. Flint of Braintree, farmer.
Norman J. Piatt of Wililamstown,
retired property owner.
Curtis E. Brown of Tunbridge,
farmer.
S. H. Thayer of Braintree. farmer.
Volney B. Sary of Brookfield, farm
er. Clarence A. Webster of Randolph,
farmer.
A. A. Kidder of Newbury, farmer.
Charles L. Hayward of Williams
town, farmer.
Arthur Lamson of Brookfield,
farmer. r
W. S. Hathaway of Washington,
farmer.
Prejudices against capital punish
ment and rejection of circumstantial
evidence as an avenue leading to con
viction were the principal reasons for
disqualification of jurymen at the ses
sion yesterday, although a number of
talismen were excused because the
condition of their health did not war
rant the rigors of close custody de
manded of jurors. It is anticipated
that the trial of Williams will last at
least 10 days and some of those ex
amined did not think their health
would benefit by comparatively isola
tion during that period. Attorney
General H. G. Barber of Brattleboro,
who is assisting in the prosecution,
and State's Attorney Frank S. Wil
liams of Bradford examined the talis
men for the state, and the respond
ent's interests were represented by
Attorney David Conant of Bradford
and Attorney Stanley C. Wilson of
Chelsea.
The Story of Felch's Death.
The story of Felch's death, as cur
rent around the latter days of April,
contained the following elements.
Toward the wane of the maple sugar
season Felch finished supper it was
on the night of Saturday, April 22
and announced his intention of going
to the sugarhouse for the purpose of
boiling the last run of sap. He re
marked that he would be home
around midnight. The sugarhouse Is
located in a fringe of fir trees at the
edge of a maple orchard scarcely a
half mile away from the house.
In the early morn of Easter Sun
day Mr. Felch's non-appearance caus
ed alarm and Mrs. Felch, her daugh
ter, Bernice, and the hired girl, Miss
Josephine Pero, set out for. the sugar
woods. Arriving at the sugarhouse
they opened the door and found the
body of Felch lying in the welter of
his own blood with a rifle under his
torso'. The women spread the alarm
and the town health officer was called.
He scouted the theory of suicide be
cause of the peculiar juxtaposition of
the body and the rifle.
On the following Wednesday Wil
liams was arrested and given a pre
liminary hearing before a justice of
the peace in Bradford. Williams'
statements on that occasion are said
to have prompted the arrest of Mrs.
Felch a few days afterward. The
rifle found under Felch's body,
Felch's clothing, the lantern and oth
er articles were taken to Burlington
by the state pathologist for further
examination. It is expected that Dr.
Stone and Dr. Whitney will arrive in
Chelsea Wednesday to testify, al
though their testimony may not be
used until later in the week.
NO SPECIAL SESSION
After Information Received from
Washington Gov. Gates Says Calling
of Legislature Is Inadmissable.
(Special to The Caledonian.)
Franklin, July 18. Gov. Gates to
night announced that he would not
call a special session of the legislature
of the state to act on the compensa
tion of the members of the "Vermont
National guard now in service on the
Mexican border, at present.
His notice states that information
received within a few days from the
war department has materially
changed the conditions relating to the
National guard, and after a confer
ence with the adjutant general it was
decided inadmissable to call a special
session of the legislature to act upon
the matter.
The response of the local relief as
sociations has been so generous that
the boys will be well cared for for the
present. A record has been secured
of the dependent families of the men
now on duty on the Mexican frontier
and they will be properly cared for.
PINNED UNDER OVERTURNED
AUTO AND IS UNINJURED
East St. Johnsbury, July 18. Miss
Edna Wells of Granby miraculously
escaped serious injury Tuesday after
noon when the automobile she was
driving turned turtle on the road be
tween East St. Johnsbury and North
Concord, pinning her beneath the car
until help could be secured to raise
the machine and release her.
Miss Wells is the R. F. D. carrier
on the "star" route between North
Concord and Granby and was return
ing from St. Johnsbury to Concord
when the accident occurred near the
farm of David Ranney.
It was said that Miss Wells was in
a hurry and was speeding when the
machine struck a sandy spot in the
road. The front wheels skidded,
throwing the rear of the auto around
and turning It almost completely over.
The top was up, which probably
saved Miss Wells from injuries other
than the few bruises she received.
When men arrived and lifted the
machine Miss Wells was able to ex
tricate herself without further aid and
said she was not hurt.
Beyond a smashed top and a
sprung axle the machine was not
damaged and was able to proceed un
der Its own power after being right
ed. Elmer H. Gaskell has bought of
Miss Elizabeth Hawes the property at?
2 Belvldere street.
OVER 700 MEN AT
' VERMONT MEETING
Attendance Beats Records of
ciationAddresses by Colonel George Harvey, Governor
Samuel W. McCall, Theodore N. Vail, Judge Wendell P.
Stafford, Admiral Clark, James H. Hustis, H. E. Folsom,
Qias. K. Gleed, E. C. Smith, Admiral Peary and John
Barrett
STATE'S NEEDS AND POSSIBILITIES
Are Set Forth In Inspiring Speeches By Greatest Galaxy of Noted Men
Ever Gathered On a Platform In the Green Mountain State Meeting
In Armory In Afternoon and Banquet In City Hall In Evening Make
up Annual Affair and Observance of 125 Anniversary of Admittance
To the Union
(Special to The Caledonian.)
Montpelier, July 12. Seven hundred Vermonters gathered here
today to attend the annual meeting of the Greater Vermont association
and listened to inspiring addresses by the greatest galaxy of speakers
that ever graced a platform at one time in the Green Mountain state.
It was the largest attendance of any meeting ever held by the associa
tion and after Tuesday night applications for tickets had to be fSrned
down after the number originally planned on had been increased twice.
The sessions opened with a meeting in the afternoon in the armory
and concluded with a big banquet in the evening at City Hall, 700 per
sons being seated at the tables.
Post-prandial exercises followed the banquet. These were presid
ed over by George Harvey of New York, editor of the North American
Review, a native of Peacham.
The speakers all expressed enthusiasm over the possibilities which
were before Vermont for its development and many of them touched
upon the great problems which are confronting the nation today.
Great Array of Speakers.
The speakers at the, dinner were
Governor Samuel W. McCall of Mas
sachusetts, President James H. Hus
tis of the Boston & Maine system, T.
N. Vail of Lyndonviile, president of
the American Telephone & Telegraph
company; Judge Wendall P. Stafford,
judge of the supreme court of the
District of Columbia, a former resi
dent of Barre and St. Johnsbury.
Among the guests will be Admiral
Charles E. Clark, who arrived at
Stowe last week, Governor C. W.
Gates, a number of the former gov
ernors of the state, Senators W. 1'.
Dillingham and Carrol S. Page, mem
bers of the Washington Vermont so
ciety and others prominent in state
and national affairs.
At the last moment word was re
ceived from Gov, Spalding of New
Hampshire that, owing to the depart
ure of the state troops and press of
other official business he would be
unable to be present. A letter of re
gret was also received from Edward
A. Filene of Boston.
At the afternoon meeting the
speakers were Charles K. Gleed of
Topeka, Kan., a native of Morrisville;
E. C. Smith, president of the Central
Vermont railway; Admiral Robert E.
Peary of the United States navy, and
John Barrett of Washington, D. C.
director general of the Pan-American
congress.
tLadies from Barre, Montpelier and
those who accompanied their hus
bands here occupied seats in the gal
lery during the post-prandial exer
cises in the evening. The gallery,
which seats 700 persons, was filled.
Major General Leonard Wood was
among those expetced to be present
but could not leave the mobilization
at Plattsburg, N. Y.
Ex-Governor Smith's Address.
In his address this afternoon Presi
dent E. C. Smith said in part:
"The success of a state or nation
depends upon the character and mor
ality of its citizens. These two, char
acter and morality, have their found
ation in the divine law. Constitution
the common law, statutes as enacted
by the state and nations, are merely
human efforts looking towards the
expression of that law. The degree
in wh'ich such expressions are carried
out, the quality of the impetus of ad
vancement in civilization, the degree
of the appreciation of the rights of
the individuals who make up society,
the conformity of duty imposed by
these rights between the members of
a community these measure the
progress of the 6tate of ideal perfeci
tion. The constant aim of a state
should be the Just recognition of these
rights and the accomplishment of that
duty. To depart from these ideals,
leads to the end of disaster, to tem
porize with them postpones their ful
filment. "I take it that the purpose of this
organization is to develop a greater
Vermont along these lines, even as
laid down by those who prepared the
way for us in Vermont; that the idea!
upon which this organization is pred
icated is not material prosperity nor
temporary advancement merely, but
the Ideal of equal Justice to all its
citizens. This organization looks to
a truly greater Vermont, whose ob
ject is to hold the people of this state
steady to the purposes of our fathers.
Former Meetings of Asso
and to make a Vermont greater In
tne elements 01 character and moral
ity, which Is in truth the only sure
and safe foundation on which to raise
a material prosperity.
Ideals Must Be Finely Hooted.
"When the people of the state
have reached the period where these
ideals have built into its fibre, then
only may follow safely and success
fully their efforts to build up and
maintain a material prosperity in
volving the widest development of its
resources, the broadest expansion of
its industries, and the highest uplift
of its institutions.
"Now, the first essential of success
In the organization of a community
is a basis of taxation that is fair and
sane. Let me call your attention to a
feature of our system of taxation for
state revenue that has seemed to me
to carry the elements of unfairness,
and has projected the state upon a
road full of trouble, a feature which
ought to be corrected and changed,
not only In the interest of those im
mediately affected, but for the good
name and best interests of the state
itself. Until 1880 the burden of sup
porting the state was then borne rat
ably by all the citizens of the frtate;
but about that time a different policy
was adopted, and the state departed
from its long-time system of levying
a general property tax and Inaugurat
ed a new syBtem of making one por
tion of the members of society bear
the burden of the balance of the mem
bers. Certain of the corporations
were thereafter taxed to pay expens
es; expenses have gradually Increas
ed and the practice of making one
branch of society carry the expense
of the ptate organization for all Its
members Is precisely tantamount to
the proposition of living , on other
people's money. Living on other peo
ple's money inevitably leads to extrav
agance and extravagance Inevitably
leads to waste."
Increased Expenditures.
The speaker, referring to the in
creased expenditures of the state,
(Continued on Page 5)
"YOU SHOULD WORRY"
If Your Ccal Is In The Cellar
No you wun't need to lie awake
nights, if you have it salted away
this summer, but we're torry for
those who do not.
W
!)
V :
r j iii if i
t
1 PL. f 1
sop$yi i ll
