THE ARIZONA REPXJBL
ICAN
-
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
SHUT!
, 10 PAGES "
MV
I 1 II II 1 I II 1
mv
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, JULY 19, 1916
10 PAGES
.VOL. XXVII, NO. 62
I f A ft II Tl 1 Ml 'I UN II
mm i wx
NCREASED BY SEVENTEEN
Relative Calm Now Prevails on the Fighting Front in Frame THIRTY-TWO IS
BRITISH AND GERMANS ARE
,; ENGAGED IN SANGUINARY
" , rnwci in nu i nnini 1 mr
1 1 1 1 1 v 1 1 iii I m i in i im
I
jZ?
jZ?
jZ?
JZ
DYNAMITE ENDS CRAZED NEGROES CAREERS
n
I i
I EIGHT INJURED WHEN
LIGHTNING STRIKES TENT
I !
I NoGAl.ES, July 18. JTisht
i members of the First California
field artillery were injured when j
I the tent, in which they sotght j
j cover from a rain storm today,
was struck ly lightning. Four I
were seriously burned about the
hodies. All will recover, it is be-
Jievd. Eight hundred recruits j
for the Connecticut regiments ar-
sylvania engineers. The first of
al rase consignment ot overcoats
f (By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
' With the exception of the region of Longueval and south of the Somme,
at Biaches, relative calm prevails on the fighting front in France.
The British and Germans are engaged in a sanguinary conflict in the
region of the Longueval salient, to the northwest of Combles. With the clear-
inn a( tk. uf.atka. tka armanc a w f aLrn tna. a n n ra i UA hr.. aftr a nr.. i
I, minary bombardment, in which a new asphyxiating gas shell was used. At ,,ive,i wt laKt niKnt ulons wilh j
l ,r..r,. r, H.icinr, ),, r.rV..A i hatfl. I I ''"mpunieS C a lid F Of the I'el.11- !
To the south of Somme the French and Germans are still at grips at
Biaches, where the French have driven out the Germans from some of the
houses they held in the village. The Germans failed on Tuesday to renew
their attacks between Biaches and La Maisonnette, in which the French
inflicted heavy casualties on them Monday night.
On the eastern front Vienna asserts that fresh Russian attacks in the
lerritiry southwest of Lutsk were without success, but says that in the Car
pathian region near Zabie and Tatarow, the Russians hav pushed back
Austrian advance posts, although the Austrian main line has been firmly
held. In the vicinity of Riga the Russians are vigorously on the offensive
against Field Marshal von Hindenburg's army, but all their attacks have
been repulted with heavy losses, according to Berlin.
In the Austro-ltalian theater Rome reports fresh victories for the Ital
ians over the Austrians at various points.
While Petrograd chronicles further advances against the Turks by the
Russian right wing, Constantinople says that in recent days on the central
sector the Russians have suffered tremendous losses south of the Tchoruk
river and that their attacks have become less violent.
Cannonading is going on along the entire front in the region of the
Greek border between the forces of the Teutonic and entente allies. Air raid
ers of the entente allies have done con siderable damage with bombs in the
region of Monastir.
I
... ,.- '
IlLSON URGES
CHILD LABOR
LA1SADUPTED
SIX IS I ILL IN
CRIGAGO ALTER
Ti
Ml AH
PROBE SHOOTING OF
MEXICAN ON BORDER
. Military Critics
are Taking Stock
of the Situation
j7
! Republican A. P. Leased Wirel
LONDON", July 18. While the ad
verse weather is compelling a lull In
the fighting on the western front,
military critics are taking stock of the
situation. They are agreeably sur
prised by the large captures of heavy
firmament that General Sir Douglas
Haig, the British commander in chief
announced. The critics point out how
the British attacks have pressed with
the greatest rapidity in order to give
the Germans no time to organize for
midable defenses. Also, as was cvi
1nced by the withdrawal of the Brit
ish from the Fourcaux wood, where
they had reached the German third
Britons Changing
War Map Daily
By Feeling Way
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BlilTlSli FRONT IN Fit AN I' E.
July IS. (Via London) On that map
of vari-col ired patches at headquar
ters which shows at a glance each
day's progress of the offensive, there
is one for today's work, to the hour
of writing so Tar as known, north of
Ovilh rs and west of Pozieres. The
British apparently are following the
-.aine meth'xjs after the second big
attack as after the first, fortifying
the positions gained, stalking German
machine gun detachments, taking
needful tactical iwiints and feeling
! th' ir way systematically, w hile their
Republican A. P. Leasea Wire
CHICAGO. July 18. Henry J. Mc
Intyre, a crazed negro, believing him
self a prophet who must die to carry
"a message to the Almighty," became
violent here today and as the result
of his frenzy there was a casualty list
of six dead and three injured. The
negro and his wife were killed tint only
after more than a hundred police had
besieged his residence for more than
three hours and had been forced to re
sort to dynamite and fire tu end the
battle.
Mclntyre had a congenial helpmate
in his wife. He claimed divine au
thority and she believed in him. He
didn't believe in work for himself. His
wife adopted this view also and paid
the rent and the grocery bill by taking
in washing.
Today when Mclntyre strapped a
belt of cartridges around himself and
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. July IS. President
Wilson niiidp n nersonnl visit to the
capitol todav to emphasize his desire equipped himself with a pistol and a
that a child labor law be put on the I rifle his spouse strapped on another
statute books at the present session of hclt and armed herself with a rifle
congress. To senate leaders, whom he I She fired the first shot at a neighbor
summoned to a series of conferences I on the other side of the fence; helped
in the president's room adjoining the J to barricade the house when the po
senate chamber, he insisted that the I lice came, and with her rifle helped
child labor bill passed by the house! to hold it for three and one-half hours,
should le made a part of the legisla-1 In the end she died with him. She
tive program to tie put through the! was riddled with bullets and the top
senate before adjournment. Deter- of her head blown off. When Police
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Aliz., July IS. Excite
ment over the shooting of Antonio
Rodriguez, a Mexican musician, by
Private it. Tucker, Eleventh infantry,
while the Mexican was trying to cross
the international boundary line here,
(lid not abate today in Agua Prieta.
The case was the chief topic of con
versation in Mexican circles during
the day, officials on the other side
of the border, from General P. Klias
Calles. military commander of Sonora.
and Adollo de la Huerta, governor
of lhe state, down to the lowliest po
liceman, are insistent in their deT
niand that the sentry be punished.
Rodriguez is still alive and has slight
chant e for recovery.
The official investigation of tl.
case was completed bv Judge Gabriel
Trujillo today. A translation of the
complete record ot ahe hearing was
sent Genera T. F. Davis, comand-
ing the tro.ips in the Arizona district.
The request that he take the cir
cumstances brought out in it into
consideration in making his inquiry
into the affair is understood to have
nccompaned the document when it
line. Gen. Haie wiselv reit,l concentrations of gunfire give no sign
tation to hold on to tht r,ir if wh're r'Mt trc infantry is going to
would have incurred severe fighting
with probably heavy losses, and Gen
eral Haig was In favor of a more
methodical advance.
Evidence received from the front, as
well as the official map published here
seems to prove that the German sec
ond line of defenses was far less strong
and elaborate than the first. There
fore, the military observers believe
that th" obstacles art likely to be
lets difficult as the entente allies
advon'-e. With regard to the east
ern front. General von Linsingen's
retirement across tne Pipa is con-
(Continued on Page Two)
act.
"Shells," said a gunner who remem
bered the days of munitions starva
tion; "it is no longer a case of ask
ing for more, but of somebody in the
rear asking over the telephone if wel
have enough.
It cleared after yesterday's rain,
which did not interrupt the shelling
or the taking yesterday of 1,300 yards
of a scond line trench west of Po
zieres, which has been the center of
interest for the last '2i hours. This
village sits on a high and command
ing position, and the British now have
(Continued on Page Three)
ENLARGED NIL BUILDING
T IT
BILL APPROVED BY SENATE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. July IS. The en
larged naval building bill recommend
ed by the naval committee after con
ferences with President Wilson and
Secretary Daniels was approved by
the senate today by a. viva voce vote.
Democratic and republican leaders
were held together to secure its
passage and although a small group
of senators from both sides of the
chamber opposed it during debate,
sentiment in its favor was so over
whelming that no roll call was de
manded. With the important building sec
tion out of the way, administration
leaders believe the naval bill can be
pressed to a final vote tomorrow and
ent to conference where a stubborn
fight is expected. Ths program ap
proved today provides for construc
tion of 4 battle cruisers and 4 dread
naughts in PUT and a total r.f 157
war vessels of all classes within the
next three years. As it passed the
house, the bill authorized only five
capital chips, all battle cruisers, for
next year, and made no provision for
a continuing policy.
Only two amendments likely to de
velop extended argument remain to
be disposed of before the senate
reaches a final vole on the bill. They
are Senator Oliver's proposal direct
ing that the federal trade commission
Investigate the armor plate situation
and lhe Iji Follette amendment to
prohibit US' of any United States
warship In Mexican or South Amer-
mined opposition by southern senators
forced the house Dill which would
prevent shipment in interstate com
merce of good manufactured wholly,
or in. part, by children out of the im
perative program drawn up by the
democratic caucus last Saturday. Il
was left in a secondary position, to be
considered only if time remained after
other measures regarded as more ur
gent had been . disposed of. Mr. Wil
son had been told that an effort to
force its passage would mean a ser
ious party revolt.
Whether the president's visit accom
plished anything more than to bring
his own position in the matter em
phatically to the front, was not ap
parent tonight. So far as could be
learned the democratic steering com
mittee contemplated no change in the
caucus program and no call had been
issued for another caucus to consider
Mr. Wilson's request.
The president's arrival at the cap
itol was entirely unheralded. Accom
panied only by two secret service men
he went directly to the president's
room and sent for Senator Kern, the
majority leader. loiter he discussed
the subject with Vice President Mar
shall, Senators Martin, Williams.
James and Owen of the democratic
steering committee, and Senators Sim
mons and Hughes. Senators Martin.
Williams and Simmons are among
those inclined to favor postponement
of action on the child labor bill until
(next December.
I Those who saw the president were
tor Kern said that the discussion was
nothing to get excited about, and so
far as he knew, the president's visit
would not necessitate any delay in the
contemplated adjournment of congress.
Some senators who favor early ac
tion on the bill said they believed there
man Edward Hughes entered the house
lie'Tound her dead, crumpled up in the
wreckage on the floor. Mclntyre, al
ready wounded, was gasping and lean
ing against an ice box. He turned and
the policeman sent a bullet into his
brain.
This shot terminated the most ex
citing episode on the West Side in
1 R DEAD
IN GREAT FLOOD
Has delivered by Ives G. Lelevier,
Mexican consul here.
Rodiiguez and his companion, En
rique Pina, under oath, testified that
they were not less than one hundred i
metres inside Mexican territory when
the first shot was fired at them. The
judge says that he found Rodriguez
240 metres south of the border.
Oneial Calles' interest in the case
is shown by the fact that his chief
of staff, Colonel M. M. Mendoza, had
the transcript of evidence made for
General Davis and forwarded it to
him under the official sea! of the
state. In conversation the Mexican
authorities said that unless the sentry
be punished, it was the intention of
Governor De la Huerta and General
Calles to make the case a matter of
international moment by insisting
that it be taken up diplomatically
between Mexico City and Washing
ton. . ,
Private Tucker was not placed un
der arrest and from the statement of
American army officers it appears
that he was merely following orders
when lie fired. American officers are
understood to have declared that shots
were fired before the pair crossed the
border
GUARDSMEN FIRE ON
MOUNTED IB BAND
APPROACHING TRE BORDER
(Continued on Page Two)
o
PROHIBITION
CONVENTION TD
OPEN TODAY
Mean waters to aid in the collection of
money due a private citizen.
By a vote of 48 to IX the senate
todiy rejected an amendment designed
to provide that three of the ten new
battleships to be constructed in the
next three years should be kept in
Pacific coast waters. An effort by
Senator Penrose to have communi
cations submitted by the Bethlehem
Steel company in connection with the
armor plate plant fight printed as a
public document also failed.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. PAl'L. July IX Prominent
members of the national prohibition
party, assembled here for the open
ing tomorrow of the putty's twelfth
piadrennial convention expressed the
belief tonight that the contest for the
'residential nomination nat rowed down
to two men William Sulzer of New
York and J. Frank Hanly of Indiana
This belief grew out of develop
ments T the day including lormal
notification from Mr. Sulzer that he
was leaving N -w York for St. Paul
nd private telegrams from Henry
Fold, Detroit manufacturer, announc
ing" his unwillingness to accept the
nomination.
Aside from the so-called "get to
gether" conference, delegates were oc-
uhonlfl ha sitinthar rfliipti. Others tie
travel a,,. r.antm,.nt ut the ,.re. cupied principally with informal ses
ldent's request, pointing out that the rsionH rpUlt.ive to ,he conte"t f"r ,he
ur,ata. aWaHv huH r,.m rom UoH with presidential contest.
the White House on the legislative tne "et together confer-
program. the caucus last week agree- failed of its original purpose
ing to delay action on the immigration to attract into the prohi
bit which Mr. Wilson oi.noses but '"'-'on party scores or reformers nere-
which has the sntmort of a maioritv of toforc identified with other parties.
democrats senators tlvre was a general discussion of pro-
Mr Wilson is said to have called l-IMtions and means of uniting the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, July IS. A party of
mounted Mexicans exchanged fire with
company of the Ninth Massachu
setts infantry near here late today.
According to reports the guardsmen
were doing outpost duty when the
Mexicans rode up on the opposite band
oi the Rio Grande and opened fire.
The guardsmen suffered no casual
ties, but reported they believed they
had killed one Mexican.
Captain Hickey of Dorchester, Mass.,
commanding the company, estimated
the number of Mexicans at fifteen, but
asserted that he was unable to deter
mine whether or not they were sol
diers. Approximately fifty shots were
fired on each side, it was said.
Both General George Bell, Jr., com
manding the El Paso military district,
and Lieutenant Colonel Leon Buclon,
acting garrison commander, in Juarez,
denied that they had received official
reports of the incident and both said
that it seemed trivial.
The shooting occurred in an isolated
district, about three miles down river
from El Paso, known locally as "the
island" section. The Massachusetts
company was doing border patrol duty
in this district, one-third of the sixty
men being on patrol and the remain
der being held in reserve in the camp
about half a mile to the rear.
Captain Hickey said that throughout
the day small parties of Mexicans ap
peared from time to time on the Mex
ican bank of the river, which is about
(Continued on Page Two)
1ST SHOW CERTIFICATES OF
LI
CLEANLINESS LEAVING NEW YORK
.Republican A. P. Leased Wire (childien going out of the city when it
NEW YORK, July IS To prevent s found they do not live in an in
the epidemic of infantile paralysis fecte'd house, and are free from symp
here from spreading to other parts toms of all contagious diseases. Cer
of the country, nil persons leaving I tinea tea, however, must be applied
attention to the fact that the demo-
(Continued on Page Three)
Early Departure of the
Deutschland Is Likely
Republican A. P. Leased Wire (steamer Neckar.
BALTIMORE, July 18. There were An extra, hatch
further signs today of the early de
parture of the submarine Deutsch
land. The batch of mail from the German
embassy was delivered to Captain the distance
Koenig, the undersea boat's comman
der. Prince Hatzfeldt of Ambassa
dor Bcrnstniffs staff, paid a visit to
was put into use
moral forces of the country
A general session at the auditorium
of the afternoon was marked by a
suggestion that republican leaders be
approached with a view to causing a
prohibition plank to be inserted in
the republican platform. This sug
gestion came from General Thomas
T. Wilson of Arizona, but was met
with many dissenting voices. Gen
eral Wilson is 80 years of age and
has been a prohibition advocate for
years.
Other speakers at the afternoon
session included Miss Elsie Hill of
for the I Connecticut, who urged the conven
B. Anthony
the officers of the Eastern Forward-i large covered barges were hauled,
ing company at the pier where the end-on to each other, beside the barge
Deutschland is berthed. that has been alongside the Deutsch-
Large quantities of canned goods 1 land for more than a. week
anil sides of beef were stowed in the
in loading the rubber.
Two carloads of fuel oil
Deutschland arrived today. This will tion adopt the Susan
he sufficient to carry her three times amendment as a plank in the party's
of her lirst trans-At- oUtform. Several suggestions for
....
luntic trip. I change in the name of the part v were
Further screening of the suborn- m;.ie. but seemed to meet with little
line developed this afternoon. f"1" approval from delegates.
submarine. Hitherto supplies for the
Deutsehland's crew have been taken
to the interned North German Lloyd the ends of the barge.
Parker Won't Accept
NEW ORLEANS, July 17. "There
is not a chance on earth of mv ac-
J-argn pieces of burlap weiV hung cepting any nomination at thehands
between the roofs of the barge ends Gf the prohibition party," said John
effectively shutting off view between m Parker, progressive candidate for
vice president tonight.
New York City for other states will
be required to furnish certificates
setting forth that the premises in
which they live, or have lived, are
clean and have not been affected by the
disease, it was announced here today
by Dr. Charles E. Banks, senior sur
geon of the t'nited States public
health service. Five additional phvsi-
cians now are on their way here, it
was said, to aid the federal health
officials in their efforts to safeguard
the lives of residents of other states.
Dr. Banks asserted that government
physicians would be stationed at all
railroad stations to enforce the new
regulations. A statement issued by
him said in part:
"Persons traveling out of the slate,
must obtain a certificate from the
city board of health that infantile
paralysis does not exist on their
premises. This must be obtained on
the day of travel or the day before,
and when the ticket is purchased at
the depot they will then go to the
public health surgeon on duty at the
derjot for the out-of-the-state card
of identification.
"Persons traveling to points within
New York stato do not need any
certificate from the United States
public health office."
Persons leaving the state by auto
mobile or otherwise than by rail, also
must obtain certificates.
Dr. Banks said he had asked for
fifteen additional physicians to aid
in enforcing the regulations. The
new rules will become effective at
once.
Health certificates are being issued
by the department ot health to all
for one day in auvanee, so that ad
dresses may be visited. Children are
subjected to personal examination by
health department physicians on the
day the certificates are granted
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTA, Ga., July 18. Seventeen
deaths reported today brought the
southeastern flood toll to thirty-two.
but all rivers are falling and something
like normal conditions obtain in many
of the sections overrun with the high
waters from thej eastern mountains
Sunday. Ten persons still are missing
and the property damage is estimated
at $15,000,000, principally to railroads,
crops and industrial plants.
Eight of the deaths reported today
occurred at Bat Cove a village in Hen
derson county, North Carolina, on the
Rocky Broad river and two at Volga,
a small town in Buncombe county.
Four were reported today from Brey
ard, N. C, and three from the Hickory
Nut gap section, in the western part
of the state. In addition unverified
reports said three boys were drowned
below Marshall, N. C, in the overturn
ing of a boat.
Marked improvement is shown in
conditions in North Carolina. The
French Broad river in the Asheville
region is falling rapidly.
The Catawba river is receding al
most as fast as it rose two days ago,
when the water rushing down from
the water sheds carried bridges, fac
tories and homes before it. Railroads
and other utilities companies are using
large construction gangs repairing
damage in the Catawba valley.
Several weeks will be required, it is
said, to restore normal train service on
some of the railroads and hundreds of
thousands of cotton spindles may be
idle for a month.
All fear of serious 'floods, in South
Carolina have been dispelled by the
rapid fall of the Congaree and Broad
rivers. The. greatest loss will be to
crops and livestock in the Congaree
valley.
The rivers of East Tennessee have
reached their crests and are falling
slowly. The greatest loss will be crops,
several hundred thousand acres hav
ing been flooded in the valleys in the
extreme eastern part of the state.
Conditions in Virginia and West Vir
ginia are expected to be normal within
a day or two.
Village Wiped Away
SPARTANBURG, S. C, July 18.
According to information brought here
tonight by H. A. Marlette, who went
to Thermal City, N. C, yesterday in
an automobile, says the village of
Chimney Rock, N. C, near the famous
rock of that name, in Rutherford coun
ty, was completely washed away by
the high waters of Broad river. The
population of the town was about 150.
According to Marlette a party went
to Chimney Rock to try to rescue those
caught by the flood, but water sur
rounding the village prevented them
from getting elose to the houses. They
saw no signs of human life, it was
said. The postoffice and hotel were
washed to a point several miles be
low the village.
Seven Additional Bodies
ASHEVILLE, N. C, July 18. Reced
ing waters of the disastrous floods
which swept through the French Broad
valley Sunday gave up seven addition
al bodies today and reports tonight
of eight more deaths by drowning in
the Batavia section, brought the total
death list in this district to twenty
eight Indications were that the prop
erty loss in western North Carolina
alone may be $12,000,000. Fears are
felt that the loss of life and property
may prove even greater when the riv
ers subside.
Relief work is being pushed, forward
rapidly and most of the 1.0(1 men
thrown out of employment by closing;
of twenty-five industrial plants are be
ing put to work clearing away the
flood wreckage.
Castros Are Permitted
to Enter United States
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. July 18. Freedom'
to enter the United States, once de
nied was granted to former President
Cipri ino Castro of Venezuela and his
wife by order of Secretary Wilson of
the labor department, who overruled
the decision of the special board of
immigration officials at New York
denying them admittance. Under the
seeretars ruling the Castros are free
to go to Porto Rico as they had plan
ned. or to remain indefinitely in the
United States.
A telegram ordering immediate re
lease of General and Mrs. Castro, who
have been held on Ellis Island since
their arrival Saturday from Trinidad
was sei-t tonight to Immigration
Commissioner Howie. In explaining
his ruling. Secretary Wilson pointed
out that when Castro had tried to en
ter the United States in 1913 from
France he refused to answer ques
tions regarding his alleged complicity
in the murder of General Paredes, a
polntcal opponent in Venezuela.
At the hearing last Sunday, at El
lis Island, however, he answered all
questions asked, denying guilt in con
nection with General Paredes" death
'Not having admitted or been con
victed of a crime involving moral tur
pitude, and in fact denying guilt, un
der the lav, there was nothing for
us to do but to admit him," sa'd
Secretary AYilson. "In the testimony
taken before (in 1913) there was ev
idence that General Castro was un
der charges in Venezuela in connec
tion with the alleged murder of a
political opponent. Before the im
migration board at New Y'ork he re
fused to answer questions regarding
the charges and his refusal was con
sidered, under the circumstances, as
ar asumption of guilt."
Tt is understood that Immigration
Commissioner Caminetti who was in
Philadelphia today, recommended to
Secretary Wilson that the Castros be
admitted. The secretary's decision,
officials said, was reached upon ex
amination of the transcript of evi
dence taken at the board's hearing;)
and without a fcrmal appeal from Its
decision having- been filed by Gen
, eral Castro.
1
