Men and Boys Pelt Cars With Eggs
HARRISBURG SfiSlib TELEGRAPH
LXXXVi— No. 165
RUSSIANS CROSS
CARPATHIANS;
NOW THREATEN
AUSTRIAN REAR
After Drive Through Buko
wina, Forces Under Gen
eral Letchitzky Are Now
Reported a Day's March
Into Hungary
GERMANS RECAPTURE
LINES ON WEST FRONT
Heavy Counter Attacks Win
Portion of Delville Wood
and Ground North of
Longueval; French Front
Quiet; Italians Make Gains
N'ews dispatches from Petrograd re
port the crossing of the Carpathian
mountains by the Russians under Gen
era! Letchitzky who after their drive
through Bukowina, are now said to
be a day's march into Hungary and
threatening the Austrian rear.
On the front of the British offensive
in Northern France the Germans
have been heavily counter-attacking
At two points their assault carried
them into the new British lines. Lon
dcn_ to-day admits the recapture by
the Germans of a portion of Delville
Wood and the loss of ground tn the
northern outskirts of Longueval.
Quiet apparently prevailed along
the French lines south of the British
front. The afternoon bulletin from
Paris reports calm in the greater part
of the Franco-Belgian war theater.
In the Trentine the Italians have
captured positions from the Austrians
on the heights of Corno Del Coston
in the Upper Posina Valley and re
[Continued on Pago 12]
Jolted From Motor Truck;
Elizabethtown Man Killed
Special to Ike Ttlegrafh
Middletown. Pa., July 19. Jacob
Brubaker. aged 32. of Elizabethtown.
fell from the rear of a motor trucK,
when it bumped in the road, and his
neck was broken. The truck was owned
by Hoffer Brothers. contractors. of
Elizabethtown. The driver of the ma
chine never discovered his absence until
he had gone about a mile further. When
Brubaker's absence was learned the
driver immediately turned back. The
lifeless body was found in the middle
of the road. Brubaker is survived by
his wife and three small children. Coro
ner Eckinger decided the «death was
accidental.
Newport Objects to
Stopping Railroad
The Newport and Sherman's Valley
Kailroad Company may have trouble
abandoning the narrow gauge road
from Newport to New Bloomfield as
it proposes to do on July 22. 'jftie
company announced some time ago
what it planned and was notified that
it must first submit the proposition to
the Public Service Commission, which
It has failed to do.
To-day the borough of Newport, the
Rice Produce Co.. the Oak Extract Co.,
and A. B. Wright, H. A. Moore, J. S.
Butz, F. XI. Snyder. C. E. Delancey,
J, E. Fleisher. C. W. Lehr entered a
pretest against abandonment or the
line and it is likely that the company
will be ordered to operate its line
until a hearing can be held.
THE WEATHER
For Harrlsburg and vicinity: Gen
erally cloudy to-night and Thurs
day, probably thontrt; not much
change In temperature.
For Ea.otern Penn»> 1 vanla: Cloudy
to-nlKbt and Thursday, prohably
>bower«| fresh, probably utrung
northeast to north winds.
River
The Susquehanna river and Its
principal branches will probablyfl
continue to rail ttlonly or remain
nearly stationary. A stage of
about 3.0 feet la indicated for
Harrlsburg, Thursday morning.
General Condition*
4 atorm from the South Atlantic
ocean In central oft' the Carolina
const apparently moving north
ward. It nun raining at Hat
terns, at S o'clock thin morning
with a northeast wind of thirty
two mile* an hour. Showers have
occurred in the last twenty-four
hour* over most of the territory
south of the Ohio river except
Florida.
Temperature* continue high and
uniform from the Plain* States
eastward to the Atlantic roast,
the entire range over this terri
tory being but eighteen degrees,
from sixty-six at Wythevllle. to
eighty-four at Tampa and Key
Went.
Temperatures 8 a. m., 74.
Sun: Rise*, 4:53 a. m.: net*. 7:29
p. m.
Moon: Rises, 10:23 p. m.
River Stage: Four feet above low
water mark
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 83.
Lowest temperature, 72.
Mean temperature. 78.
Normal temperature. 75.
Getting used to strange
newspapers is like breaking in
t p*lr of new shoos—mighty
uncomfortable. Order the
Harrisburg Telegraph mailed
to your vacation address if
you would enjoy real comfort.
Six cents a week will bring
the Telegraph to you no mat
ter where you are
BV CARRIERS fl CENTS A WEEK.
SINT.I E COPIES 2 CE.VTS.
{ GEE, BUT IT'S GREAT CAMPING AT McCORMICK'S ISLAND ! '
v ;
Don't these pictures make you yearn for the distant yesteryear when you could boat, swim, practice archery, plav tennis, eat a lot and sleep some under
the stars?
The views were snapped at the girls' summer camp at McCormick's Island and they only suggest in a very, very modest wav what an enjoyable life the
camp out o'doors has been made. Incidentally it only costs each small camper $2 per week. In one picture you'll notice a man genially standing on his
head. That's James H. Sourbier, the instructor, in charge, who obligingly posed thus for the camera man. He has had fourteen years of Y. M C A camp
work, has a life-saving medal and has passed wonderful tests for National Re d Cross life-saving work. Miss Katherine Staple's, a sister of Playground
Supervisor Stapes is the chaperon.
HOW HARRISBURG
TROOPERS LIVE
ON THE BORDER
Governor's Troop Must Haul
Water Four Miles in
Tank Wagon
(By Special Correspondence)
Camp Stewart, Fort Bliss, Tex., July
14. Troop C. the Governor's Troop
of Harrisburg. has learned how to get
water for cooking and for drinking in
this God-forsaken country. Captain
George C. Jack's men are now using
all the water they want, for they
know how to get more.
Last night, First Lieutenant Edwin j
A. Nicodemus of Troop C originated
[Continued on Page 4]
CAPTURE BRITISH VESSEL
Stockholm, via London, July 19. j
It is reported here that the British
steamship Adams, 2223 tons gross has
been captured by a German destroyer .
off Ahus. Sweden, while on a voyage I
from Finland.
BURIED MIXERS RESCUED
Joplin. Mo., July 19. The four
men who have been imprisoned in the
Babr ock mine near here since 2 o'clock
Monday afternoon were rescued alive
at 7:15 a. m. to-day. j
CHAFIN MAY LEAD
PROHIBITIONISTS
Mentioned as Compromise Can
didate to Head Ticket; Sul
zer-Hanley Fight Close
I
By Associated Press
1 St. Paul. Minn., July 19. The
convention of the national Prohibition
party was called to order at the uudi
; torium to-day with delegates from
; nearly every State in attendance.
Meetings ot' rival bodies of dele
j gates favoring the nomination of J.
Prank Hanly and William Sulzer, pre
ceded the convention se.ssion and un
der surface talk of E. W. Chafin as a
, compromise candidate grew as the
ttnsenes? of the Hanly-Sulzer contest
increased.
The arrival of John P. St. John, of
. Kansas, the party's candidate for
president in 1884 evoked the first out
burst of applause by delegates.
; Temporary Chairman Daniel A. Pol
ing. of Boston, delivered the keynote
; address. He attacked the militarism
I and the preparedness programs of the
! Democratic and Republican parties.
; The delegates cheered his remarks.
Two Italian and Greek
Steamships Sunk by U-Boats
By Associated Press
London. July 19. A Lloyd dis
patch from Algeris says the Italian
steamship Angelo has been sunk by a
i submarine. The crew was landed,
j The Greek steamship Evangelistria
| is believed to have been sunk.
The Angelo sailed from Wilmington.
Del.. June 4. for Spezia, Italy, reaching
that port on June 25. ane was 35S
feet long, of 3 609 tons gross.
I The Evangelistria. 2212 tons gross
and 284 feet long was owned in Syra.
Sh» was last reported on her arrival
June 8 at Savona, Italy, from Barre.
MACHINISTS' STftIKF SPREADS
By Associated Press
Milwaukee, Wis., July 18.—The ma
chinists strike spread to-dav, 200
workmen at the N'ordberg Manufac
turing Company being called out to
Join the 1,700 inen who yesterday left
the Allis-Chalmers Company and the
Pawling and Harnischfeger plants.
HARRISBURG, PA.,
WANT TO SEND SOME LITTLE
CITIZEN TO
Costs but $2 Per Week Per Carr\per on McCormick's How
Youngsters Enjoy Themselves
Don't you know of some little man t
or woman in this broad town of yours
; whom you wish could enjoy the sum
mer camp life on McCormick's Island 1
I and whom you know can't afford the !
j comparatively small boarding fee?
Ever felt as if you'd like the oppor- ;
tunity to "stake" some youngster your
self to a week's outing?
Now's your chance. Announcement
was made for the City Park Depart- j
ment to-day through V..Grant Forrer, i
j the assistant superintendent, that any
j body who feels so disposed may Insure |
• one youngster, or ten or twenty-five or ]
fifty small folks, a week's outing by
contributing $2, $2O, $0 or $lOO, as the
i case may be. It is only $2 a week for j
; each youngster. Get in touch with the j
Park Department if you and your
purse feel that way.
The Camp Is On
McCormick's Island camp, by the I
i way, is on in earnest and if you'd like
! to get some idea of how the small'
folks are enjoying themselves you j
should pay a little visit to the camp on j
"visitors' day."
Boating, swimming—if your small \
son or daughter can't swim or row a j
I boat when he or she goes into camp, :
it's a safe bet that the lesson will be
I well learned by the time the heir or j
heiress of your house returns home — |
are features of the outdoor program; j
rhen there is tetherball, races, base- !
ball throwing, tennis, quoits, archery 1
I —pretty nearly everything you can 1
Thirty-four Dead and Loss
of Property Many Millions
in Heavy Southern Floods
Asheville, X. C., July 19. Flood
waters in the Carolinas and portions
of adjacent States were rapidly reced
ing to-day, leaving in their wake a
property loss variously estimated at
from $12,000,000 to $15,000,000 and a
list of deaths from drowning that ha%
steadily increased since the waters
rose Sunday. The toll of human life
stood at 34 to-day with prospects that
it might be increased still further.
Two small villages in Rutherford
county, X. C., known as Chimney Rock
and Bat Cave, suffered severe damage
from the volume of water that swept
down the narrow valley of the Rocky
Broad river, according to meager re
ports reaching hero. The towns, each
of which has a hundred of more inhab
itants. -re more than 2£ miles from a
railroad, and without wire communi
cation.
From Spartanburg. S. C., came a re
port that persons arriving: there said,
almost all of Chimney Rock was wash
ed away and that there was no sign of
its inhabitants. It was pointed out,
however, that they might have reach
ed high ground in time to save them
selves. Eight persons were said to
have been drowned at Bat Cave.
Loss to railroads, industrial plants
and agricultural interests in North and
South Carolina has mounted Into the
millions and it may be weeks before
the transportation system is restored.
High Cost of Print Paper
Investigation Is Urged
Special to the Telegraph
Washington. July 19. —'A congres
sional investigation into the cost of
print paper was asked yesterday in a
resolution introduced by Minority
Leader Mann. •
The Republican leader seeks to learn
th»? reason of the high post of paper
and would have a committee of five
members of the House inquire into
the supply and production of pulp
wood, wood pulp and print paper to
determine the existence of a monopoly.
The Mann resolution was referred to
the Rules Committee.
An investigation is being made by
the Federal Trade Commission and a
report is expected in September. In
vestigntors of the commission now are
working in various parts of the coun
try and in Canada, studying conditions
in the field.
f
WEDNESDAY EVENING. JULY 19, 1916.
I think of in the way of athletic stunts.
The junior tetherball championship
j tournament was decided yesterday,
Helen Coonrs winning out. The senior
! tetherball championship has reached
the final rounds, the surviving players
; in which are Florence Matchett. Gladvs
i Simonton, Bernke Mills and Mary El
lenberger. By this evening the camp-
I ers will have finished the final rounds
| in the quoit tournament, running and
I boat races and the bas«ball throw.
The "Big: Night"
| Last night was the "big night" of
j the first week in camp, when Park j
Commissioner E. Z. Gross and Assist- .
ant Superintendent V. Grant Forrer
: were hosts at a watermelon feast, j
| Some 200 Japanese and Chinese lan- i
items strung through the grounds!
helped to add to the effectiveess of
the scene. !
Then, too, there was a vlctrola con- !
cert: as a nice finishing touch to the'
' evening's program the camf> girls
: sang.
If some impressario, say Mr. Ham- :
I merstein, for instance, had been drift
, ins by the island in a canoe it's ten to
j one he would have drawn in his paddle I
j at least: the chances are that he'd
j have turned in to bend a nearer ear j
to the island chorus.
Paddle up 'round the island vourself :
j some evening, or better still, let vour 1
! car drift, instead of speed, up River
, side Drive—and you'll readily get an
I impressario's viewpoint. '
West Indian Storm
May Sweep Atlantic
Seaboard to Maine
By Associated Press
j Washington. July 19. Another
> West Indian storm like that which
recently struck the guir coast at
Mobile and Pensacola. to-day is mov
in* northward over the Atlantic 350
j miles east of Charleston, s. c. It may
j sweep the coa:st from Virginia to
I Maine, should it continue in its path
j with the present intensity.
Weather Bureau reports by radio
; from vessels at sea indicate a wind
! velocity of sixty-four miles an hour
to the southward of the assumed lo
cation of the storm center. Strong
| northeast winds blowing on the North
, Carolina are another indication of
the storm.
From all reports at hand the
Weather Bureau to-day said the storm
; appeared to be of pronounced form.
Storm warnings to-day were ordered
all along the coast from Wtimington,
N. C.. to Boston.
POSTMASTER DISMISSED
By Associated Press
Washington. July 19. Post Office
Department officials admitted to-day
that Dr. George W. McNeil, post
master at Pittsburgh, Pa., had heen
dismissed from the service for "failure
to co-operate with the department."
They said Dr. McNeil refused to carry
' out instructions given tn connection
I with a reorganization designed to in
j crease the efficiency of the office.
I THEATRICAL INTERESTS SOLD
Announcement was made to-day
that the theatrical partnership of Wil
nier & Vincent Theater Company. Wil
mer and Vincent Inc., and Nathan C.
: Appell, has been dissolved and their
Harrisburg interests sold to Walter
Vincent and Eugene L. Koneke. The
Orpheum, Majestic and Colonial
theaters have been held by the Wil
mer, Vincent and Appell partnership
for several years.
LATROBE GUARDSMAN DROWNS
Sfecial to the Telegraph
Latrobe, Pa., July 19.—Thomas Haag,
I aged 19. a Latrobe member of the Com-
I pany M, Tenth Infantry, Pennsylvania
i National Guard, was drowned In the
, Rio Orande river at Boqulllas, Tex
Monday night.
BRITISH BAR
COMMERCE WITH
83 U. S. FIRMS
Three Blacklisted Under Trad
ing With the Enemy Act
Are in Pennsylvania
A new and serious issue between the
United States and Great Britain is be
lieved to have been raised by the ac
tion of the British government in issu
ing last night a blacklist of 83 firms
and individuals in the United States.
British subjects, in virtue of the Trad
ing-with-the-Enemy act, are forbid
den to transact any business with any
j of the firms or individuals named.
Just how many of the individuals in
; the blacklist are United States citizens,
jand how many of the firms named in
j elude United States citizens has not yet
| been learned, but dispatches from
London. Monday, indicated that some
| American citizens were to be named,
! and it is already declared in Washing
ton that a formal protest will be sent
to London at an early date by the
United States government.
Three Pennsylvania firms are nam
: ed. They are Carl Grubnau & Son.
1144 Arch street, and the International
j Import and Export Company, 136
South Fourth street, Philadelphia,
j Another firm listed is that of "Oren
[Continued on Page 7]
DEUTSCHLAND
! READY TO SAIL
i All Return Cargo of Crude
Rubber and Nickel Now
in Hold
By Associated Press
1 Baltimore. July 19. Shut oft en
) I tirely from the view of the public at
j ; her pier at the foot of Andre street,
, Spring Gardens, the German merchant
. submarine Deutschland is believed to
; be ready to sail a* any moment her
, commander, Captain Paul Koenig, is
f; ordered by his American agents to
dei art.
There was little activity about the
rrontlnupfl on Pnjse 7.1
Hold Conference Here
on Farm Loan Bank
According to a dispatch from Wash
■ j ington, D. C.. a conference will be held
r in Harrisburg in the very near future
. to discuss plans for locating Federal
i ; farm banks. The dispatch says:
"Hearings will he held shortly by
5 Secretary ~f tho Treasury McAdoo and
. : the Farm Loan Board at Harrisburg
- Pa„ to determine whether one of the
•' new farm loan hanks should he located
in Pennsylvania.
1 "Four members of the Farm Loan
..Board are to be appointed by the
j President in Ihc next few days. The
, four members of the hoard, acting with
Secretary McAdoo. will then hold hear
ings at various State capitals to deter
| mine how the country should he di
" vided into twelve districts.
■ j " 'Farmer' Creasy, of Pennsylvania
• has !>een mentioned as a possible ap
.! pointee in connection with the organ
ization of the new board."
> I .
I PRESIDENT W K.SOK MEETS
McCORMICK TOMORROW
By Associated Press
Washington, D. C.. July 19. Cam
paign plans and organization of the
! campaign committee wfll be discussed i
by President Wilson with Vance C Mc-
Cormick, chairman of the Democratic
! national committee. The President is
I preparing to enter actively upon tni
fight for re-election as soon as Congress
j adjourns, .
22 CARS RUNNING;
PELT CREWS WITH
EGGS; BR Ft
Crowds of Men and Boys Harl Vegetables at Trolleymen at
Verbeke Street Markethouse; Police Rushed to tke
Scene and With the Aid of Sheriff's Deputies Order Is
Soon Restored; Windows Smashed at Sixth and Cum
berland Streets Today
STRIKERS PLANNING PARADE OF
ALL UNION MEN AND SYMPATHIZERS
Line Will Be Formed at Amalgamated Employes' Head
quarters; Suburban Service Indefinitely Suspended;
Rocks Piled on Tracks at Many Places; Carmen Will
ing to Arbitrate They Declare; Gilday Meets Offi
cials; No Results
After almos't twenty-four hours of inactivity, the Harrisburg
Railways Company officials sent out twenty-two cars on the lines
this morning l shortly after ? o'clock and maintained service in the
city and to Steelton. All other suburban lines remained closed.
The cars, according to Superintendent of Transportation Felix
M. Davis, are being manned to-day by crews of men who have re
mained loyal to the company, and will be operated as long as no
serious damage is done by strike sympathizers.
John J. Thorpe, vice-president of the Amalgamated Association,
of Street and Electric Railways Employes, and leader of the strik
ing carmen in this city, announced at noon to-day that plans have
been started for a big labor organization and strike sympathizer
parade to be held over the city streets to-morrow evening. The
line will be formed at 26 North Third street, in front of the strike
headquarters.
Xo serious disorders occurred in the city, with the exception of
disturbances at the Ycrbeke street markethouse, where small boy.'/
and some men hurled tomatoes, eggs, fruit and vegetables at the
j crews on the cars as the passed. Police were rushed to the scene
| and with sheriff's deputies soon had the crowd cleared away.
Patrick Gilday. chief of the State Bureau of Mediation and
! Asbitration, met President Frank B. Musser and officers of the'
Traction Company to-day, following a meeting with the strikers.
[Continued on Page 5]
2
BALYSIS KILLS THIRTY MORE CHILDREN fl
Bw York, July 19.—Both deaths and new cases in the 6
He paralysis epidemic took another jump to-day. 1
■ the twenty-four hours ending at' lo a. m., to-day-JH
Hfasc killed thirty children and attacked 142 others in f
Hroughs of New York City. This is an increase of
pi. ™. £
V
AT WOOD IS COMMITTED I
I Boston, July 19.—Dr. E. A. Atwood was arraigned m m.
(• shooting Dr. W. E. *
j> Ha Is of $15,01. mmitted *
j I 28. Dr. Harris'
1 very low and it is feared he will not survive many hours. n
I BOY DROWNED l|
1 T Marysvilk. "Honey" McCann, aged 7, son of Jere j
j nn, of thin place, was drowned while swimming in the fll
Susquehanna river this afternoon. He was on a Sunday j N
9 School picnic. The body was recovered. J®
!CAR HITS AUTO; CROWD ANGRY
<-*
' v ( by two men fro Brooklyn, J:
New York, who told the police that they came here as i
strike-breakers, a trolley car crashed into an automobile at
Sixth and Boyd : treetr., : hortly after 2 o'clock to-day. E
i"* J. I- of W 1 HI ion Height;:. , s driving the 5!
auto mob ■ which 1 on slightly damaged. It was said f.
by those in the crowd that the carmen deliberately ran
the auto which had stopped in the middle of the track tosj
take on passengers. A crowd collected and ran after the<9
car. eeti police re .v< ' • Oliver®'"
V» , ~a a .irij., as a pilot, and William I
Wc d George Lewis, the crew. The police escorted! f
th .. . < ety pi e- ■. •" I
• , DEPUTIES UNDER STATE FUND
* ' Harrisburg. Agreement by the State authorities latJ] I
I this afternoon to insure Dauphin county's special trolley
| • "strike State fund will probably mean ' ';
I that all the coui es will be included under this j y
! permission. 1 |j
MARRIAGE UCENSES , >
Goy Stephen Hovrr and Anna I,*aeh Strrbljc, Philadelphia.
Janie* Williams Palmer and Dora Loouiia, Tyrone,
' '
CITY EDITION
12 PAGES
