UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, WEDNESDAY, JULY 19, 1916
NUMBER 275
V
SPEAKER PRESENTS
PLATF01 FOR IL S,
Granville Jones Tells Chau
tauqua Audience That
Reforms Are Needed.
ASKS DEFENSE ARMY
Arcadian Symphony Sextet
Gives Complete After
noon Program.
THE CALENDAR
FRISCO R. R. IS SOLD
TO ITS BONDHOLDERS
Joan
souks.
Mrs.
TONIGHT, S P. M.
Wormser's Alpine
Yodlers,
Lulu Tyler Gates, reailinp
probably "Daddy Long-Legs.'
of
THURSDAY. 3 P. M.
Ojibway Indians, demonstration
Indian life.
Prof. J. V. Ilencerotli, lceture-dcm
onstration, "science and the soil.''
THURSDAY. S P. M.
Ojibway Indian Players. "Hiawatha.
Have an adequate army and navy
for defense only.
Let a military commission spend
the defensive appropriations.
Kstablish government-owned mu
nition factories.
Declare war by vote of the people.
Abolish the militia.
Prepare America for Americans.
Make July -1 an Americanization
Day.
Deport foreigners who refuse to be
come American citizens.
Cure country of poverty by scientific
campaign.
Take natural resources from few
hands for benefit of all.
Practice thrift and economy.
Wipe out illiteracy by systematic
effort.
Give eery child an education.
July 111. Wednesday Chautauipia: Jean
Worinser's Alpine YoiIKts, souks
nf the Alps at 3 p. in. Jean Worm
N't'n Alpine Yodlers :inl a pro
gram of readings liy l.ulu Tyler
Cute", s ii. m.
July ai, Thursdaj -l"niversitv Assembly
, lecture ly Dean Walter -Miller mil
July -ImylMwA-. Ojibway j System Had Beeil ill H:M(ls
ImliMtix am! a farming dcmousirn-1 r ii r i
lion by l'rof. J. W. Ileneerotli, at OI a Receiver tor OCV
:: p. in. ojibway Indians, present-1
ilia Longfellow's Imllaii passion I Pffll I Mrs
play. "Hiawatha." S p. m. CUl 1 CdVb'
Julv 2r. Tuesday University Assembly
leeture liy Dr. Albert S. Cook, L-,,,.,, .,,,. ,,, . .,,. nnn
eouiily Miieriuteiiileiit or schools, Ud 1 IN J Y lO i)J).UU,UU
July 20, Wednesday Keening Assembly
session by -Miss Clirlstlnc Tinling t, . .
of xorfoiic. va. rurc lasers Are
Julv ".. riiiirsiiny Assembly leeture by
Ilr. Albert S. Cook.
July 27. Tliursilay livening Assembly ses
sion by .Miss Christine Timing of
Norfolk. Va.
August 1, Tuesday Assembly lecture by
lr. w. II. mack, president or .Mis
souri alley College.
August 1. Tuesday Start of the Iloone
County la ir.
August 4. l'rid.iy-Close of tlie Summer
Session.
August 1. I'rblay Close of Ibione County
fair.
$800
Only Bid
ders Transfer Takes Place
in Roundhouse.
plau.e. The Indian Intermezzo, "The
I.ostArrow," by the orchestra was an
interpretation cf feeling, especially
adapted as music for out-doors.
The Arcadian Symphony Sextet also
entertained the audience last night
with several selections. The Sextet
also gave an encore when the aud
ience applauded heartily.
NAM US TiKKX FOR NL'XT YUAR
('liaiilauitiu Hoard Will Ascertain Hem
Sentiment Runs.
Whether Columbia will have a Chau
tauqua week in 1917 will be left to the
desire of the people in Columbia, ac
cording to the decision of the Chau
tauqua Hoard, announced by W. L.
Nelson, assistant secretary of the
State Hoard of Agriculture, at the
program last 'night.
Mr. Nelson told the audience the
benefits the town received from hav
ing a chautauqua and complimented
the talent that entertained this -week.
jile then called on persons in the aud
ience to express themselves. J. Kelly
Wright, the Rev. M. A. Hart, John
ti, ..-.. i, ,.ini..0 r o r.-, Schwabe, the Re. G. XV. Hatcher and
platfotm which Grain ilk
l:y lulled Press.
ST. LOUIS. July 19 The Frisco
Railroad system was sold under the
hammer for $ l.".,700,200 this afternoon.
The sale was conducted by Special
Master Thomas T. Fauntleroy in the
roundhouse. The purchasers, II. Elmer
and William P. Phillips of New York,
representing Xew York bondholders,
were the only bidders.
The two purchasers were represent
ing Speyer and Company and J. XV. Sel-
igmau and Company of Xew York.
Most of the time during the sale was
consumed in reading the advertise
ments. The sale is subject to approval
by federal courts.
The road has been in a receiver's
hands for several years.
IS SET ASIDE
FOR HEALTH BUDGET
City Council Amends Its Es
timate on Suggestions of
O. D. Kellogg.
TAX RATE THE SAME
THE WEATHER
For Columbia ami Vleinlty: Thunder
storms this afternoon or tonight, eooler.
Tliursilay generally fair and eooler.
I'or .Missouri: North portion tlmnder
shoners this afternoon or tonight, eooler
tonight, Thursday generally fair, eooler
east porllou. Soiilh portion thuudershow
ersers tonight or Thursday; eooler Thurs.
day.
Hotel Committee Tells Need
of Better Sewer Facilities
for Building.
HOYS AT LARKDO GUT FLAG
Jones l1!ol"-'rt Smith agreed it tended for the
speaker on the chautauqua program
last night, urged the people to adopt,
after giving a brief review of how
some persons think the war in Eu
rope affects us.
Mr. Jones started with the text,
"Xo man liveth to himself; no man
dieth to himself."
"Nations," he said, "arc families of
men. The races are mixed by inter
marriage. Our nation is made up of
citizens from every nation under
heaven. How is it affected by the
war"
.Many Tilings I'xpcrfcd of War.
"The financier," said Mr. Jones,
'"says that the gold is coming here,
and we will rule the world with the
rod of gold. The manufacturer says
that we are becoming the manufac
turing nation of the world, while the
best interests of the community
.Mr. Nelson called on the following
men to distribute tickets to those who
wished to pledge for next year:
Mayor J. M. Ilatterton, John N. Bcl
chcr, I). A. Robnett, W. H. Golds
berry, Dr. J. II. Cole, S. C. Hunt, J.
Kelly Wright, Dr. C. M. Sliced, J. AV.
Schwabe, R. It. Judy, E. McDonnell,
A. G. Spencer, J. N. Taylo'r and Prof.
L. M. Defoe.
j Tickets will be distributed again to
I night and tomorrow night. The board
will announce the results Thursday.
The following persons have pledged
to take tickets next vear:
.Mrs. J. is. Arnold 2. c. T. Asbury 1,.
Kelly Alexander 2 1-2. Thomas I,. Iieas
ley 1 1-2. I.. W. Kerry I ami . W. M.
I'.raiiglitoii r.. Mrs. s. II. Maker 1, M. lirlght
1. M.iry .1. Harnett '. .lohn N. Ilclcher .".
Sallie Itedford 1. Mrs. .1. II. Cole .1.
W. I". Ii.is.-irt Id. I.. M. Iieroe ."., V. M.
liiiiwiddic 4. Ilirley S. Italic 2.
I l 11. -I...I1... -..... t !' 1 I-.. .
factories of the Old World arc being "j. n." ivflows .-,. i.hla" May rish'er l. "
destroyed. The man of commerce tells j ';,,." ,'I;i,j,"!f -j,;';""u HeurvT ?-' i:
us that we will become the ocean car
rying nation. The man of trade says
that all the nations will look to us
for trade markets. The military man
says that the war awakened the na
tion to the need of national defense.
"There never were so many things
that we could do as tonight. Our suc
cess or failure will be measured by
the manner we discharge our respon
sibilities. "I believe in national preparedness
for defense only," Mr. Jones told his
audience. "The question of defense
was settled by Congress recently,
when it passed defense appropriations
amounting to $300,000,000 a year for
ten years.
"In 1912 we spent $50,000,000 more
than Germany and $150,000,000 more
than France to keep our small army."
Would Haw Military Commission.
Mr. Jones suggested that we get a
military commission to co-operate
with the secretaries of War and the
Xavy to spend the money efficiently
for national defense. XVc should also
own our munition plants, urged the
speaker, because they would
I". Iloifman 2. M. A. Hart :! 1-'-'. W. II.
Ilornberger 1. 1". C. Hill 1. S. C. Hunt in,
.tirs. .i. i.. iiiiiiz . l-ame inn j, .iarv
Hill 1. ;. W. Hateher 2.
Katie :. Jones 1, Ilr. .1. II. Jordon I. W.
J. Jarvis 2.
i; !. Kelly 2. W. C. Knight 10. I". S.
Lonsdale 2, II. I". I.uekev .
II l. Moore :: 1-2, Coorgo II. .Morideth
1. Mrs. ii. Ii. Moody 2. .1. i:. Merldeth 1,
William C. Mejers 2. Miss Mary .McAfee
2. Kmmett Milioniiell .",. Arch Mell.irg 2,
John I'. Murry '.
W. II. Xohi-II 1 and 2 halves. :. S. New
ton 1. Homer T. New Ion 2, Mrs. .1. T.
Xexins 2.
M. V. o'ltear 1.
Joseph .1. Phillips 2. Payue-Koth Cro
eerv Company 10. Mrs. I'rank rape 4.
I S. ijuluii 2 1-2.
Mrs. Walter Kobliison 2, I,. II. I ".Ice 1.
Kolx-rt M. Smith 2. II. It. Schlotzhaiicr
2. Iliigene Seott 2. A. 11. Shopard .1. Irvln
Sultzler 1. C. 1". Sehuabe 1. C. (. Seblers
2. 1'. A. Sampson I. W. H. SehIot.hauer
2. Will II Smith 2, Herman Seliliinilt 2.
Mrs. w. It. Tipton 1 1-2. Kaymond Tip
ton 1-2. W. II. Thomson 1. Margaret Til
lerv 2. Ileorge II Thomson 2, !. W. Trim
ble' 1.
A. I.. Vaiiatta 2.
J. II Whittle '!. -Mrs. I.. Ii. Wright 1.
Marv Wileox 1. Ir. It. A. Walters 1, Mrs.
II W. Woods I. T. Win. Whittle 2, Har
riet Wright ::, W. A. Watson 2, II. M.
Whi-eler 2.
T.dal, 211).
II. I!. Gibson Writes of Receiiing -To.
luuibia's Gift to Cniiipani Jul IX
The silk Hag which was presented
by the people of Columbia to the local
Machine Gun Company arrived at the
camp at Laredo. Tex., July I". H. It.
Gibson, who was acting comnnndant
for the Cniversity Cadet Corps tills
"ear, in a letter tj J. O. Rankin, writes
jf the arrival of the Hag.
"Our company Hag with the letter
incloseJ arriied last evening just be
fore mess. It is the pride of the 'out
!:t" and the envy of our regiment. The
camp here is somewhat like the camp
at Nevada. The weather is warmer.
anu, consequently, those who lose a
blanket do not suffer much. Nights
are c.mfortably caol.
"The camp ground when wo arrived
was covered witli dust several inches
deep; now it is hard-packed clay.
There is no grass of any kind. We
have had a shower nearly every day
and also several hard wind and rain
storms. "Corporals White and Lipscomb
have been appointed sergeants. White
and Dysart are now in the "street" hav
ing a big time with the semaphore
Hags. Privates McKuen, Bannister,
Norris and Cox have been appointed
corporals. Rollins is in the 1'ost Hos
pital under excellent care. He is do
ing fine and is in the best of spirits.
"We are doing about three hours
drill each day. As yet we have had
no ride practice, but I hear that we
will later."
College SuiTragMs l'lmi Meeting.
The College Women's Kqual Suffrage
Society are planning for a mass meeting.
The Daniel Roane Tavern will have
to have additional sewerage facilities.
Doyle G. Clark, representing the hotel
committee, appeared before the City
Council last night and asked that the
eight-inch sewer in the alley just back
of the hotel site be lowered or another
sewer laid. The sewer now is nine feet
below the surface and will not serve
the lavatories of the building. He es
timated the cost of the impiovemcnt at
$:!2.-..
Councilman Klass said it was untair
to impose the cost on the other prop
erty owners in that district and said
the committee should pay for the skiv
er out of the hotel bonus. Councilman
Shaw believed the town should provide
a sewer there that would meet the ne
cessities of future buildings. The mat
ter was referred to the street commit
tee and city engineer for consideration.
The council fixed the rate of taxation
for the city at 50 cents on the $100 val
uation. This is to provide a sinking
fund to pay off bonds. This rate has
been greatly reduced since four years
ago. as th,e bonds have been gradually
letiied. A few years ago the rate was
$1.40.
A resolution to pave West Rroadway
to the city limits was carried. The
pavement will be of the fame material
as that already in on West Broadway
and will he 28 feet wide.
A motion to fill in Flat Branch from
Tenth street to Eighth street was car
ried. A resolution to put in concrete side
walks on the north and south sides of
Walnut street from the east curb lino
cf Price avenue to William street was
carried.
J. N. Fellows was awarded the con
tract to build a concrete sidewalk on
the north side of Ash street from
Garth to McBainc avenues. The walk
will be four feet wide.
Garth Clinkscales was awarded the
contract for the improvement of Wal
nut street from the center of Mel
bourne street to the west line of Moss
street. He was also awarded the con
tract for the construction of sewers in
District No. 2S.
Salaries and expenses of the water
and light plant amounting to $2,927.02
out of the water and light fund were
allowed.
The six Columbia banks each sub
mitted bids to handle one-sixth of the
city funds, agreeing to pay ?, per cent
Weather Conditions.
Scattered thuiidershouers have occurred
In the territory between the .Mississippi
nun .Missouri. 111 .Missouri anil Kansas, in
a few of the southern states, and also In
scattered localities east of the Mississippi.
The weather this morning Is more or less
unsettled, but warm, in nil territory east
of the ltocky Mountains.
Another storm of unite marked forma
tion has npicarcd just off Cape Il.it
teras. The high pressure that covers the
Northwest states will give cooler weather
In Columbia by Thursday, and pleasant
temperatures are Indicated for the re
mainder of the week.
Local Data.
The highest temjHraturc In Columbia
yesterday was V. and the lowest last
night was 72; precipitation. (12; relative
humidity 2 p. in. jestenlay. -II per cent.
A year ago yesieriiay the highest tem-
rature was ,sn. and the lowest (X: pre
cipitation, ::.'.
ON THE CARPATHIANS
Passes to Hungary Are As
sailed for Second Time
During the War.
3 TRANSPORTS SUNK
Allied Advance in West Is
Still On French Gain,
Britisli Lose.
The Almanac.
Sun rose today, l:.Vi a. m. Sun sets,
T iK p. in.
.Moon rises W:ii!i p. m.
The Temperatures Today.
7 a. m. 71 11 a. m. vS
s a. m. Ml 12 in. 90
!i a. in. s:: 1 p. in. !2
111 a. in . SC 2 p. in. SS
CAMHOATKS AT II1NT0X TOIIAV
About l.'.O Columbians Make Trip to
('utility Harhcciie.
Do Columbians like sheep meat?
They certainly do, and if there lives a
doubter all that is needed for a com
plete conversion is that he could be
at Hinton today and see the line-up
for bountiful portions of the famous
barbecue.
Despite threats of rain, automobiles
left Columbia early this morning, fill
ed to capacity with admirers of the
candidates.
Approximately l.'.O Columbians at
tended the speaking today at Hinton.
To carry these, some thirty-live auto
mobiles were used.
The entire program of speeches as
arranged required three and one-half
hours for competition. Beginning at
1 o'clock the speaking was continuous
until 4:30. All the candidates were al
lowed fve minutes, except those run
ning far piosccuting attorney and rep
resentative, who are allowed fifteen
minutes each.
Tomorrow the campaigners will
meet at Cook's pasture, near Centralia.
liy Culled Press.
PKTROG RAD. July !'.. For the first
time since the Russians retreated from
the Carpathians more than a year ago.
Russian forces again are hammering
at the Carpathian Mountain passes,
barring the way into Hungary.
On a sixty-mile front extendin-g from
Jahlanitza Pass in a southeasterly di
rection to Kirlababa, Russian and Aus
trian detachments are in constant
lighting. The main Russian line Is
drawing near the mountain barrier.
After vain efforts to bring up artil
lery over the muddy roads, the Aus
trians haie fallen back from the re
gion southwest of Kuty.
Ky I "nltcd Press.
BERLIN. July 111. Three big ene
my transports were sunk by subma
rines in the eastern part of the Black
Sea arri a fourth was forced to run
ashore, according to an official state
ment from the Turkish admiralty re
ceived here this afternoon. Since the
Grand Duke Nicholas assumed com
mand in the Caucasus and began bis
offensive, the Russians have trans
ferred many thousand troops to the
Caucasus by steamers and by rapid
marches overland.
WILL TALK A'!
Dr.
CLUB LUXCIIKOX
(Continued on pace 4.)
BROWNS TO CLAY AT CENTRALIA
Will Be Kxhildtion ('ami' Manager
Genrgi' Taj lor to Pilch.
The Browns will go to Centralia
sweep tomorrow to play the return exhibition
nu-.Tv nvKimoc nf pmtt. and men who! baseball" game with the Centralia
have an interest in making war and Braves. George Taylor will probably
friction of war with other countries' do his own pitching tomorrow, while
by supplying munitions to one nation
and not another."
The speaker believed the militia
should be abolished. "If a governor
cannot enforce law of his state, the
Federal Government should step in
and patrol it until the state would be
able to maintain its order. The gov
ernor should not have a militia to
use in commercial strife."
The artists' recital yesterday after
noon by the Arcadian Symphony Sex
tet was appreciated by an enthusiastic
audience. The solos by the various
members of the orchestra drew ap-
Tex Hall will draw the Centralia as
signment. Manager Taylor is in Shclbina to
day looking over some ballplayers
with the idea of putting them in
Brown uniforms.
3 M. U. MEN ON BREWER'S
FIRST ALL-MISSOURI TEAM
C. I Brewer, director of athletics in the University, has completed an
article on football in Missouri for the 101C Spalding guide. Three .Missouri
boys. Groves at tackle, Collins at half and Speelman at end are given places
on bis first All-Star Missouri team. Hamilton and Preston are given places
on the second team. His selections for the various All-Missouri teams are:
..... ,, , rlr-t Team. Second Team.
):" ,",.',lla,' ,- ;: (enter Hamilton (IT. of Mo.)
I.ssman i( hrlstl in liros.) cani Preston t of .Mo.)
Sc.mpp ist Louis I.) (Jiianl Wilson (Westminister)
J.ray (Washington) Tackle Hopkins (.Missouri Vallev)
i.roves II . of Mo.) Tackle '. Kiiffln (I)run').
speolnmu tl . of .Mo.) i:,i i M,,r (Holla).
King lUflsiiiiigtoii I.) laid I'bcrhart (.Mo. Wesley.ui).
le erson (William Jewell) (Quarterback ring (St. Louis U.)
( ollins of Mn.) Halfback Thomas (St. Louis IT.)
Inilay (Kolla) Halfback Central College).
Lewis (Washington v.) rullback Craighead (Westminister).
George Melchcr to Address Co
lumbia Merchants Tomorrow.
Dr. George Melchcr, head of the
Bureau of Efficiency and Research in
the Kansas City schools, will talk of
his work at the Commercial Club
luncheon at 12 o'clock tomorrow. Doc
tor Mclcher has been superintendent
of schools at Greenfield and other
towns in Missouri, has been a mem
ber of the faculty of the Springfield
Normal School and has also been
connected with the State Department
of Education at Jefferson City. At
present he is teaching a course for
county superintendents in the Sum
mer Session.
Gardner Won't Debute Limlsey.
H. R. Walker, who sent a letter to
Omar D. Gray, political manager of
F. D. Gardner, asking him to arrange a
meeting where Arthur F. Lindsey and
Mr. Gardner could speak from the
same platform, has received a letter
declining the offer, saying that Mr.
Gardner is working for the governor
ship on his own merits and not on the
demerits of his opponents.
I!y t "nited Press.
LONDON, July la. German troops
have obtained a footing in the outskirts
of the village of Longueval and recap
tured a part of the Delville wood In a
heavy counter attack against the right
wing of the British army north of the
Somme. General Haig admitted in his
report this afternoon.
The Germans attacked in large forc
es after dusk last night, delivering
their most powerful blows against
Longueval. which occupies an impor
tant position at the intersection of the
two highways.
The attacks succeeded in penetrating
the northern edge of the village. The
battle continued throughout the night.
The British counter attack was suc
cessful at several points. Savage fight
ing continues on the outskirts of the
village.
General Haig also reported tonight
that the struggle for the Delville wood
continued with increased violence.
I!y Culled l'ress.
BERLIN, July 19. The recapture of
the village of longueval and Belvele
wood from the British in a violent
counter attack was announced by the
war office this evening.
British attacks north of Orvlllcrs
and south of Pozieres on the German
left win.g were repulsed. French at
tacks north of Barlcux and in the re
gion of Santerror were checked.
AIl-Mlssourl Colleiclalr.
Vaughn I Westminster). Center r.nnsd.ile (Central!.
Wilson (Westminister). Cuard Shannon (William Jewell).
I). Wilson (Central) Cnanl Klnsella (.Mo. Weslevan).
l.uffiu ilirury) Tackle Mill (Westminister).
Hopkins (Mo. Wesleyan). Tackle Wileoxson (Central).
I.berhart (Mo. Wesleyan). yM, Dsborn (Tarklo).
M.igill (William Jewell IIinI McCampbclI (Westminister).
I clcrson (William Jewell) .. (.uarterback Denehoiir (Springfield Xor.)
Wilson iCentral) Halfback Matsell (Westminister).
Strauss i William Jewell) Halfback Creer (Springfield Nor.)
ralghead ( Westminister! rullback iletz (Mo. Wesleyan).
City Council Holds Special .Meeting.
A special meeting of the City Coun
cil was held at 5 o'clock this after
noon to consider the putting in of
sewers behind the Daniel Boone Tav
ern, rnc hotel building casement, win
be about fourteen feet deep, while the
present sewer is only nine feet deep.
Mayor J. M. Battcrton says that it
probably will cost $600 or $700 to do
the work properly.
I'.y I'lilted Press.
PARIS, Julv 19. French troop
made further progress against the
German lines northeast of Verdun in
hand grenade fighting last night, and
they are advancing In the direction of
St. Sine, at the intersection of the
Fleury and Vaux roads, it was officially
announced this afternoon. The war of
fice reported no important fighting on
the Somme front.
W C. T. I. LKCTUKKK IS COMIXfi
C. IL Moody to Return to Sclimil.
Charles R. Woody, captain of the
1910 Tiger baseball team and grad
uate of the College of Agriculture,
writes Director C. I Brewer that he
is planning to return to the Univer
sity this fall to take up postgraduate
work.
Military School..
("enter Carrigan (Kemper). Knd M.ivfiehl (Kemper).
i.nanl Mlunlck (Wenlnortb). IIii.i l'aret (Kemper).
Criinni (Wentw-orth). )uarterback ("off (Missouri).
IMnards (Kemper). Halfback Ceorge (Kemper).
Turner (.Missouri). Halfback Jlilliam (Kemper).
rullback Kullbright (Wentworth).
Cuard
Tackle
Tackle
.1. IL LiulitnerN Store Robbed.
The general store of J. II. Llghtner,
at Sturgeon, was entered by thieves
Monday night, and betwen $2.".0 and
$300 worth of merchandise was stolen.
Mr. Lightner, who is a Wabash tic
contractor living at 1313 Rosemary
lane, Columbia, has been unable to ob
tain a clue as to the identity of the
thieves.
Samuel Morton Is Dead.
Cimtifll Unrlnn n hnehotnr nf IlnntR-
lllcll Schools. sw..v. .. . ...
Kinnlsoii (St. Joseph Center - Wllkey (Slkeston). ' dale, was found dead in his bed this
Mck'-'VcSries,'1'' ------;:::::r;i -:::::::::::::-Mcnairy ;!:! morning, ne lived aione on his fa.
Hlbbitts (Charleston). ". Tackle "vooiir (Slketon). and his only direct relation is a sister
7.T.1.": 'TfJ.kln,V..r ":::": :::" -"-"--"-"-- J'?"" SSJEI'S!- living at Rock Bridge, seven miles
.- .-l. f IT It It I. . .1.1111 I If l IT- llll"'"vii
Hoberceht iSedaliai. " KmI " 1. " McClaln (Slater).
Chapman (Si-dall.t). ZI..I (JnarteVback Cross (iithrop).
lllcks (Klrksvillei. Halfback Stone (Slkestoni.
.MNs Christine Tinting of Norfolk,
Vil, Will Address Summer Students.
Miss Christine I. Tinling, formerly
of I,ondon. England, and now of
Norfolk, Va., lecturer for the scien
tific temperance instruction depart
ment of the national W. C. T. U.. will
lecture to the Summer Session stu
dents and faculty at 7:30 p. m. Wed
nesday, July 2C. and Thursday, July
27, in the University Auditorium.
Miss Tinling Is a teacher, author
and lecturer. She is recommended by
P. P. Claxton, commissioner of edu
cation, and other educators. The lec
tures are free to all.
t.-iby (Shelldlial.
Scylfort (Joplin).
Halfback Schroeder (Hannibal).
lullback Z"r n-ariuate,.
south of Columbia. Burial will take
place at Nebo Church, as soon as ar
rangements can be made.
M. U. Assembly Is Postponed.
The illustrated lecture on "The
Isles of Greece," which was to have
been given by Dean Walter Miller at
Assembly tomorrow morning, has
been postponed because of the heat.
This lecture will probably be given
later on the campus. There will be
no Assembly tomorrow.
