1
1
A
•J»
4
-^i^NEW ULM FLOODED WHEN STORM
The streets ran rivers in the downtown
section. At Ottomeyer's corner the
man-hole became clogged with the sand
that washed down from Center Street
--*—^nd the water could not be carried off
as fast as it gathered and it rose «bove
the curbing and almost to the very door
of the stores at the corner. The sewers
became too full and began to back up,
in some places actually overflowing in
basements along Broadway. On State
i**«jm
.Minnesota Hto'oiietf
VOLUME XXXVII.
HEAVIEST RAINFALL
EVER KNOWN HERE
FOLLOWS WEEK LONG DRY
SEASON.
DAMAGE TO CITY PROPERTY
TOTALS $1000.00.—HAY CROP
SPOILED.
"A.nd the ram1? descended and the
floods came," was literally true last
Friday afternoon and evening when the
weather man lei loose all the gates of
the skies and poured out the accumulated
moisture of the past two weeks. In all
the records kept by the local weather
bureau there i* only one other entry to
show a rainfall approaching the volume
that fell between three o'clock that
afternoon and ten at night. Friday's
piecipitation amounted to 7.37 inches
and the previous neavy rainfall shown
by tne local lecords was 5.17 inches
August of 1898.
For days the heat had been almost
prostrating, the humidity of the atmos
phere rendering it almost too oppressive
to bear. No promise of any change
appeared until Friday morning when
the sky was more or less overcast all
day. In mid-afternoon the storm broke
in a glare of lightning and the great roll
and crash of thunder. The wind was
from the east at first but in a few minutes
it veered sharply and drove back the
shower that had just passed to the west.
Then came the downpour. So heavy
•was it that the sheets of rain looked
like the drift of a blizzard, almost opaque
as one tried to see thru them. The wind
swirled and whirled, sometimes from
one direction, sometimes from another.
Street some of the residents had lately
cut their lawns and thrown the grass
into the gutters. It clogged the man
holes and the lawns became lakes and
a a all floated back upon the
TQS it'had been cut from. Similar
aes were noted in the east end of
xown where that disposition of lawn
cuttings is a common one.
Down on German Street the wind
displayed its force by uprooting a large
tree and twisting another one off several
feet from the ground. On South Broad
way the lightning struck a tree in front
of the Anton Dorn home and split it,
the occupants of the houses in that block
feeling the shock very distinctly. One
housewife was preparing potatoes and
the pan in which she had them was
dented by being thrown against the table
-violently.
The greatest damage was done by the
flooding of various properties public
and private. Probably the city streets
suffered more than anything else altho
fanners and others who had just cut
their hay will stand to lose a great deal.
At the Loretto Hospital meadows and
again below College Heights the grass
bad just been cut and the floods carried
^^fcnch of it into the ditches or 'spread it
all over the meadows and little of it
can be saved. The Hospital reported
that their hay crop will be a practical
lorn
The damage to the city property oc
curred wherever there was a small
bridge over ditch or creek, at the city
cemetery and on Hospital Hill. At the
cemetery the entire place became a lake
and when the water finally sank Into the
ground it was found that a score or more
of the graves had sunk a foot or two and
it will require an immense amount of
labor and material to replace the damage
-«*there alone On Hospital Hill great
Jutters weie v*ashed in the highway,
home four or five feet-deep and stones
loo big for a man to handle were washed
out and down the foil leaving great
holes behind them and forming a pile
at the foot of the incline. The Stoeckert
bridge and the one o*er the Cottonwood
at Schells suffered great damage
Damage to private property at the
breweries was small A. great deal of
sand and earth v. ere loosened by the
jrent and a number of men were
•t busy an entire day at Schells re
moving the sand that had accumulated
about the buildings. At the Eagle Mill
"water came into the engine room in such
volumes that it was necessary to shut
4own for hour or two in order to sweep
&&tet£t&.
m^Ml£!M^dMS^mi k£i
it out. At the Roller Mills the damage
was greater for the water got into the
belt pits and the elevators. It will cost
about $50 to repair the mischief. The
Cottonwood Mill suffered no harm altho
the Cottonwood River rose between
four and five feet during the rain and
immediately following. The Minnesota
was also reported to have risen several
feet but there seems to have been no
accurate measure of its flood. A con
servative estimate places the rise at 18
inches.
There was one factor which had much
to do with minimizing the loss to the
city on the streets and that was the oil
which has been spread over the surface
of a great many blocks of roadway.
Wherever the oil had well soaked into
the composition of the roadway there
was little or no washing except at the
sides and even there it can be seen that
the oil resisted the flood successfully.
The entire top dressing of the streets
remains intact and the passage of the
waters is marked by the ragged edges
showing where the flood bit into what
e\er loose soil there was and carried it
off to the sewers. A member of the
City Council estimates the damage done
to streets and bridges belonging to the
city at $1000.00 at least.
The Rural Telephone Company suf
fered a great deal of trouble and incon
venience from the breaking of wires by
trees falling upon them or by the force
of the wind, telephone poles struck
by lightning and wires burned out. In
the city alone there were at least a
hundred trouble calls and a dozen rural
lines called for repairs. It took five
days to get things righted. On the
Minnesota Central lines it was im
possible to get Mankato for two days
and the Hanska, Searles and lines toward
Sioux Falls were all out of commission
for some time. The greatest force of
the storm seemed to be expended between
here and Mankato and towards Sioux
Falls. At Mankato so much expense
was caused by damage to city property
that all city improvements were sus
pended for this summer.
The harm done to crops, except hay,
was not great. The small grains lodged
considerably at first but reports now
would indicate that practically all of
the wheat and rye and corn have come
up nicely. Oats were heavy'in some
places and were somewhat damaged.
At the Henry Arbes place in Milford a
bridge was washed away and probably
the same thing happened in a good
many other places for the force of the
rushing water was terrific. Fortunately
there was only a very little hail or the
damage would have been incalculable.
GAYLORD HAS BIG DAY
Several Thousand People Present To
Witness Ceremonies At Laying
of Cornerstone.
Last Tuesday's celebration of the
laying of the corner stone for the new
courthouse was another successful occa
sion for Gaylord, the new county seat
of Sibley county. The weather was
ideal, the program pleased and an im
mense thrcng of people from all sections
of the ounty and tributary country,
was present to participate.
At about ten o'clock the Gaylord
Cornet Band commenced the festivities
with a concert on Main street square.
The Gibbon Cornet Band and the
Transit Cornet Band also appeared and
entertained the arriving visitors until
the noon hour.
The procession to the court house
grounds formed at one o'clock in the
afternoon. The speakers, county officials
and other notables, were conveyed to
the grounds in automobiles, where the
program was begun after each of the
three bands had rendered a selection.
Attorney C. H. MacKenzie presided
and introduced the speakers.
The committee was fortunate in se
curing such prominent men as Hon. F.
B. Kellogg, Hon. Julius A. Schmahl and
Hon. Henry N. Benson, and their
presence was largely responsible for the
great attendance. Hon F. B. Kellogg
of St. Paul, candidate for United States
Senator on the republican ticket, was the
first speaker. He delivered a fine
address and in referring to the new seat
of justice being built in Sibley county,
told of the importance of the admininstra
tion of our laws. The Albrecht Male
Quartette next appeared and at the close
of their first number, were compelled to
respond to an encore
Hon. Julius A. Schmahl, secretary of
state was next introduced and in his
talk told many historical facts concern
ing Sibley county, the hardships of the
early settlers and gradual settlement
and upbuilding of this section. Another
fine selection by the Albrecht Male
Quartette followed, after which Hon.
Henry N. Benson, of St. Peter, senator
from the fifteenth district, which is
composed of Sibley and Nicollet coun
ties, addressed the audience. HisTad-
(Continued on Page 4.)
mminfMMMmlkm^atm
i'JP^WilBIWfflW^^W'W^'SP's^
SECOND REGIMENT
TRAVELING SOUTH
NEW ULM MEN WILL REACH
THEIR DESTINATION NEAR
BORDER TODAY.
ENTERED TEXAS LATE MONDAY
ALL ALIVE AND LIVELY SPITE
OF HEAT.
Travelling in day coaches part of the
way, the Giants of the North arrived in
Texas not much the worse for wear
Monday afternoon altho a few were
suffering from swollen feet and severe
headaches due probably to the heat
which was terrific all the way. The
sleepers which had been promised the
Second Regiment which entrained Satur
day morning were not forthcoming until
the trains reached Parsons, Kansas, and
the men were glad to find a place to
really rest after the hot day's run. At
many places along the line the people
were out in force to give the boys cheer
for cheer and to supply them with re
freshments to relieve the monotony of
military fare.
The location of the camp to which the
Minnesota troops were sent was not
made definitely known but it was ex
pected to be somewhere in the neighbor
hood of Mercedes which is six miles from
the Mexican border. The Second Regi
ment travelled in three sections, running
one hour apart and keeping well to
schedule altho they were late in getting
out of the^Cities. At numerous stops
the men were given leave to stretch
their legs by taking short hikes thru the
towns.
As is natural in hot weather, the
southern watermelons appeak hugely to
the boys and every one in sight sells.
The Texans have become noted for their
hospitality to the various divisions of
troops that have passed their way and
there seems to be no end to their willing
ness to entertain, the men in khakit The
First and Third Regiments found this
to be the situation and the Second has
been experiencing the same kind of
treatment all the way.
When the physical examinations were
completed last week, a number of the
Company A and Machine Gun Company
boys were keenly disappointed to find
that they would not be allowed to ac
company the Regiment because of
physical unfitness. Others whose terms
of enlistment expire shortly were also
sent back home. Those who were not al
lowed to go came home Saturday night,
not a very happy looking crowd spite
of the congratulations of their friends
who were overjoyed to see them back
at home. Those of Co. A who were
disqualified were: Privates Grams, Nel
son, Hein, Dewanz, Rubie, Mueller,
Buchan, Manderfeld, Glasser, Garbrecht,
Langholtz. The terms of enlistment of
Sergeant Neumann and Quartermaster
Sergeant Reinke and Private Brandt also
expired at this time. Reinke was the
only one of the three to re-enlist.
The Machine Gun men who returned
'were Cook B. Juni, Cook H. Windhorn,
Corp. Alf. B. Ouren, Privates Fred.
Kappelman, Gust H. Doose, Edward J.
Wersal, Clarence Anderson, Alf. M.
Ouren, Lieut. John A. Dengler, 1st. Sergt.
H. F. Jahnke, Q. M. Sergt. Jos. Stadick,
Sergt. Frank Matsch, Corp. Herm.
Adam, Corp. Albert Grams.
The first nine were disqualified and the
terms of enlistment of the other five
either had expired or would expire very
shortly.
Thos. Collins disputed the right of
way with a freight car at the North
western yards one day last week and
came out second best in the encounter.
No serious damage was sustained but it
is not likely that Mr. Collins will try
the stunt over again* nght away.
f'Romola",
*3l(?j5ffl'?flwwSP^BBpW
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, JULY 19, 1916.
PARK CONCERT AT TURNER HALL
The following program has been prepared by the New Ulm Concert Band
for next Sunday evening at Turner Hall Park. The concert will be conducted
on the same plan as that followed by the Second Regiment concerts. There will
be no admission charged to the park and the expenses of the lighting, etc., will
be met solely out of the receipts from the refreshments sold. The concert will
begin at 7 30 and it is expected that they will continue every Sunday the rest of
the summer season.
"Mt. St. Louis Cadets" March .. L. P. Laurendean
"S. I. B. A.", March .. R. B. Hall
"Twilight", Serenade W. H. Kiefer
"The Commander", March R. B. Hall
"On the "Beautiful Blue Danube, Waltz .. J. Strauss
"Westmount Cadets", March A. Wood
German Medley", Waltz Emil Aschen
Caramba", March L. P. Laurendean
"It's A Long Long Way to Tipperary" H. Williams
"Little1 Duchess'^ Overture «.„.*,« F. Riccius
"Philo Senate",March ,',',.., .".... R- B. Hall
IMPORTANT POINTS
DECIDED BY COURT
MATTERS AFFECTING COMMON
PEOPLE SETTLED BY STATE
TRIBUNAL.
CONTRACTORS MUST BE CARE-
FUL HOW THEY USE MONEYS
PAID THEM.
Home builders received assurance
from the Minnesota supreme court Fri
day that it was with them. The court
backs up the legislature in a recent act
to protect home builders' investment.
In a decision just announced the court
holds constitutional and not class legis
lation, the "mechanics' lien" law passed
last year. The law provides that "the
misuse by a contractor, with intent to
defraud, of moneys paid to him by the
land owner for whom the contractor
is making improvements on the land shall
be larceny." The court holds that the
statute is not legislation resulting in im
prisonment for debt.
The decision is the result of a test
case brought by the county attorney's
office of Hennepin County. Walter
Harris, a contractor, had contracted to
build a house for Mrs. Augusta Dunn,
3250 Aldrich avenue north.
Harris' share of the contract included
his purchasing all supplies and building
materials and employing and paying all
laborers. All told he received $616 from
Mrs. Dunn. When this sum had been
paid, she suddenly found her house
attached by various firms selling building
material, on the charge that material
furnished by them had not been paid for
It developed that Harris had used
for his own purpose the money given
him by Mrs. Dunn to pay for building
material and labor on her house.
On complaint of the county attorney's
office, after Harris had stated his inability
to mr$re -good the amount used, prose
cution was started under the new law
which makes it grand larceny to "use
for any purpose other than labor, skill,
material or machinery contributing to
the improvement of a building," money
supplied a contractor for that building.
The law was attacked by the attorney
for Harris on two counts—that it was
class legislation and that it would im
prison for debt. Judge Steele overruled
a demurrer based on these counts and
the case went to the higher court with the
result that the validity of the law has
been upheld which means that hereafter
contractors failing to expend moneys
received for material and labor will be
subject to prosecution and conviction
on the charge of grand larceny.
Another inportant decision filed was
that holding constitutional the Minne
sota oil inspection law in its decision on
the appeal of the Pure Oil Company.
The state sued to recover fees of
$10,499, alleged due from the Pure Oil
company, for inspecting illuminating
oils and gasoline from Frebruary 1,
1915, to April 23, 1915, under the oil
inspection law of 1909. The action was
defended on contentions that the com
modities affected are in interstate com
merce and the inspection law operates
on them as subjects thereof, that the
fees prescribed are unlawfully excessive,
and that the act is not an exercise of
police powers.
The supreme court, in sustaining the
validity of the law, follows the principles
established in the previous test cases of
the Bartels Oil company. Taking up
the1 value of the gravity test used by
state inspectors and attacked by the de
fendant, the decision explained that the
court cannot say that the legislature
had no basis for considering this test
some protection of the public against
fraud and imposition, if not against
si anger in the use of gasoline not so tested
March Edward Hazel
An appeal to the United States su.
preme court is expected.
Mary Mahowald, widow of Gebhardt
Mahowald, who was killed by falling
steel beams at the First-National-Soo
line building in August, 1914, must be
satisfied with damages prescribed by
the workmen's compensation act, ac
cording to a supreme court decision
yesterday.
The Court overrules a verdict of
$6,500 awarded Mrs. Mahowald by the
Hennepin county district court and re
mands the case to the district court with
directions to reduce the verdict.
HERMANN'S SONS ENJOY OUT
ING.
When the Sons of Hermann start out
to have a picnic they usually do. Sun
day last was no exception and it is safe
to say that those who came on the
special, some two hundred strong,
augmented by nearly as many more
from New Ulm and the other towns on
the Northwestern line, had just as big
a time as they planned on when they
left home in the morning. The excursion
train arrived in New Ulm over the M.
& St. L. about 12:30 and the crowd,
picnic boxes and baskets in hand, men
and girls, old and young, handsome and
otherwise, made their way directly to
Hermann's Heights where the afternoon
was spent. More visitors were expected
than came, the shortage no doubt being
due to the unsettled weather which de
terred many from leaving home. The
attendance from the surrounding country
was also cut down on account of the bad
roads.
However, there were enough present
to have a good time and judging by the
looks of them when they went home,
they had not found any lack of enter
tainment. Dancing in the pavillion
formed the chief amusement for the
younger people.
Among those who took advantage of
the excursion were several former New
Ulmites, Dr. Gustav Fischer, Tony
Schwertzler, Alfred Seiter, Mr. and Mrs.
R. Townsend, Miss Bertha Younker,
Henry Wankum and Carl Merkle. This
was Mr. Schwertsier's first visit to New
Ulm in 14 years.
Among the many things to suffer from
the intense heat and immense rains is
baseball. Again the game between the
Gonzagas and St. James had to be called
off on account of the heavy rains.
Drivers refuse to take their cars out
nOw-a-days fearing they will never
reach their destination.
WILL GIVE PARK CONCERTS
New Ulm Concert Band Arranges
To Supply City With Open Air
Diversion.
At Saturday's meeting of the New Ulm
Turnverein the offer of the New Ulm
Concert Band to give weekly concerts
at Turner Hall Park during the summer
months was accepted and if present
plans do not miscarry, the first concert
will be given next Sunday evening. A
joint committee of the two organizations
has charge of the necessary arrange
ments.
The New Ulm Concert Band has been
in existence for some time and has a
membership of approximately thirty
men. Leader John Fritsche says that
the boys are ambitious and he knows
of no reason why they should not be
able to give a good account of them
selves.
When the Park Board decided to have
no more band concerts at German Park
this summer, the New Ulm Concert
Band decided to make arrangements to
give weekly Sunday concerts at Turner
Hall Park, because there seems to be a
strong demand for these concerts among
the citizens of town and the countryside
to judge from the attendance at concerts
held at German Park in recent years.
There will be no admission charge, the
band boys expecting to realize enough
from the sale of ice cream and soft drinks
to make it worthy their while. The
concerts are scheduled to begin promptly
at 7:30 p. m.
The following are members of the
band.
John Fritsche, Leader.
C. G. Reim John Vogel
Louis Vogel Fred Wendland
Geo. Fesenmaier Alb. Nagel
Otto Fritsche Henry Meyer
Geo. Saffert Fred Zangel
Jac. Pfaender Jos. Wartha
JohnWiedl Ed. Macho
Geo. Arndt Fritz Baumeister
Hy.Alex Ed. Baer
B. Baumeister L. Hoffraeister
C. Polta Ant. Groebner
Jos. Lindmeyer Frank Lindmeyer
Jos. Schobert Chas. Lmdemann
Chas. Janni H. Siebenbrunner
Dick Higga and Jos. Arbes were Lake
Jefferson visitors one day last week.
81 lili,WWK|8gMEWaWPWg^gMllgiaQi»r^^ W W W W W W
NUMBER 29
SWELTERING HEAT
DEMORALIZES WORK
LONGEST HOT SPELL RECORDED
IN TWENTY YEARS PARALYZ-
ES INDUSTRY.
HUMIDITY CAUSES MUCH DIS
COMFORT AND INTERFERES
WITH BUSINESS.
It is quite possible but not at all
probable that there has been some other
absorbing topic of conversation besides
the weather New Ulm for the past two
weeks. It is also possible, tho few will
believe it, that there have been hotter
spells of weather Minnesota than the
one we have been experiencing recently.
In fact, July of 1911 for the first 9 days
showed higher temperatures, both
maximum and minimum, than the first
9 days of this present month, but the
long continuance of the heated spell is
what is causing the exhaustion of both
man and beast this year. There have
been 17 days of extreme heat and humid
ity succeeding one another since the
hot wave struck us and altho the tem
perature has dropped on several occas
sions as low as the 60's it has not remain
ed low for any length of time and the
lack of wind has made it impossible for
the heated houses to cool off to any
perceptible degree before the beginning
of another scorcher.
While it will not help any to make
people feel cooler, the following table
of comparative temperatures may prove
interesting to those who have been pic
turing the mercury at 100 degrees or
more. Temperatures are given for the
first 9 days of July 1911 and the same
period for July 1916 followed by the
figures for the next week also to show
the continued heat. In July, 1911
a cooler spell relieved the situation the
the second week of the month.
July 1911 July 1916
Max. Min. Max. Min.
1st 99 77 92 72
2nd 102 69 90 72
3rd 99 65 84 68
4th 93 68 80 65
5th 102 71 80 64
6th 97 58 84 67
7th 84 65 89 66
8th 91 70 90 68
9th 97 68 86 64
This shows an average high tempera
ture of 96 degrees for the first 9 days of
July, 1911 and an average high tempera
ture for the same period in July of this
year of 86 degrees. The next week in
the present month is where the stored
up heat got even as may be seen by the
following figures: Max. Min.
10th 88 66
11th 92 70
12th 91 68
13th 82 69
14th 88 70
15th 93 72
16th 88 68
The average high temperature for
this period was also 86 degrees. The
high temperatures for the six years have
all been higher than anything we have
had so far this year with the exception
of 1915 when the best the thermometer
could do was to get up to 92 degrees
once in August. But then there was no
summer here last year. Other tempera
tures that upheld the traditions of Minne
sota hot spells were 100 degrees in June,
1910, 102 degrees twice in July of 1911,
100 degrees in June of 1912 and August
of 1913 and 98 degrees in July of 1914.
So there is still some thing to be thank
ful for this year, unless Old Sol keeps up
a continuous performance the rest ol
the month.
The extreme heat has rendered it very
hard to accomplish any tasks requiring
physical exertion. Nearly every one
thinks "tomorrow" will be cooler and
duties are put off from day to day.
Streets are quiet during the heat of tnto
day and at night/ everyone seeks the
slight comfort of the open air.
Manufacturing plants have been
having troubles each peculiar to their
own business. The mills have reported
aggravations caused by the heat and
humidity, teamsters have had to exercise
extreme care order to prevent los3 of
horses, farmers begin to fear black rust
and the printers are having the worst
time or-all. This is caused by the effect
of the heat upon the rollers which are
used to mk the type in printing. The
rollers are made of rubber composition
and in the heat when used on the presses,
the friction causes them to melt and be
come soft as jelly. In this condition
they will not distribute the ink and worse
than that, the type tears them to pieces
so that considerable expense is involved
in attempting to turn out any work that
requires many impressions.
•a
K\
t_
1
*s
