THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 106.
BAUHE. VKKMOXT, WEDNESDAY. JULY 19, 1910.
rillCE, OXE CKXT.
FRENCH MAKE
PROGRESS
Engage in Hand Grenade
Fighting in Vicinity
of Fleury
GERMAN RAID IN
BELGIUM CHECKED
Otherwise War Activities
Are Quiet on the West
ern Front
Paris, July 10. The French made some
progress last night on the Verdun front
in the course of hand grenade fighting in
the vicinity of Fleury, say to day's offi
cial report. Artillery actions continue
energetically in this sector.
A German raid in the region of Pas
chendal, Belgium, was checked by French
fire, as was a raid north of the Aisne
near Paezzy. Along the greater part of
the front .the night was quiet.
RUSSIANS CROSS
CARPATHIANS
Into
Have Penetrated a Day's March
Hungary, Says Dispatch to
London Paper.
London, July 19. The Russians have
crossed the Carpathians and penetrated
a day's march into Hungary, according to
a dispatch to the Star from Petrograu.
The dispatch says that the Russians arc
threatening the Austrian rear in the
mountains, the advance being made, uo
cording to this information, by armies
under General Letchitsky, which are on
the move after an interval of quiet.
WILL NOT CALL A
SPECIAL SESSION
fol
War Department Orders Have Changed
Conditions So That Session of Leg
islature Is Not Necessary,
Says Governor Gates.
Franklin. Julv If. Governor Charles
V, (;ate announced lat evening that he
would not call a special session of the
legislature for the purpose or providing
compensation for the Vermont National
Guard and their dependent families,
The governor announcement of his
decision not to make the call is as
lows:
"Orders have been received from the
war department In the past lew uays
which have materially changed the condi
tions relating to our National Guard.
On account of this and of the possibility
of other changes I have decided after a
conference with the adiutant general not
to call a special session of the legislature
until conditions share themselves so
clearly that we may determine more ac
curately just what art ion should be tak
en. Meanwhile the needs of dependent
families of our hoys ore being nobly re
sponded to by local relief organizations.
A list of these families ha been forward
ed by Colonel Reeves, and will be fur
nished the organizations to aid them in
their work.
(Signed) "Charles W. Gates."
TO DINE AT ST. ALBANS.
NEW ADVANCE
FOR ITALIANS
Have Succeeded in Capturing Positions
on Come Del Coston in Upper
Posina Valley.
Rome,, via London July 19. A new ad
vance for the Italians in the upper Po
fcina valley, where they succeeded in cap
turing positions 'on Come Del Coston,
was announced to-day by the war office.
A strong attack by the Austrians on the
Italian line in the Pasudio sector was re
pulsed. ACTIVE IN ALBANIA.
Situation Has Been Virtually Unchanged
for Months.
Berlin, via wireless, July 19. A reviv
al of activities in Albania, where the
military situation has been virtually un
changed for months, is reported in the
official Austro-Hungarian statement ot
the sixteenth, received to-day. There
were artillery engagements and skir
mishes along the lower Voyusa in Al
bania to the north of Avlona, the state
ment says. A report of operations on
the Russian front, says that in Buko
wina the Russians were repulsed in hand
to hand righting, following attacks on
Austrian positions on the Gapull height
and near Luczina. Attacks by the Rus
sians southwest of Lutsk failed.
WILL ASK FOR
300,000,000 POUNDS
'Premier Asquith Informed House To-day
of His Purpose to Do So
Next Week.
London, July 19 Another vote of cred
it will be asked in the House of Com
mons next week, Premier Asquith in
formed the House to-day. It will be the
eleventh since the outbreak of the war
and probably will be for 300,000,0(10
pounds. This brings the total for the
war up to 2,682,000,000 pounds.
Fat Men's Annual Outing to Be Held
This Week.
St. Albans, Julv 19. The annual tour
of the New Kngland Tat Men's club this
year will include a trip to the Thousands
islands, St. Lawrence river, and Mont
real bv the Central Vermont railway,
Grand Trunk railway, and the ('anadla
Steamship Lines, Ltd.
A train will leave White River June-
ion next Thursdav at 1:50 o'clock in the
ftemoon and arrive in St. Albans at
:55 o'clock and the parly will have din
ner at The Tavern.
The partv will arrive at Kingston, Ont.,
earlv Friday morning and will take a
steamer for a trip across lake Ontario
to Alexandria bay.
Saturday morning the party will leave
Alexandria bay for a sail down the St.
Lawrence river to Montreal, arriving
there at 6:45 o'clock Saturday evening.
From Montreal the members of the
party will leave for their homes.
DOCTOR SHOT BY
PUPIL'S FIANCE
Dr. Atwood Attempts to
Murder Dr. Wilfred E.
Harris of Boston
AFTER CELIA P. ADAMS
POISONED HERSELF
Assailant Declares Dead Girl
Confessed She Was Be
trayed by Victim
READY TO SAIL
AT ANY MOMENT
German Merchant Submarine Deutsch-
land Simply Waiting the Opportune
Time to Sail.
Boston, July 19. An autopsy on the
body of Dr. Celia Adams, who, accord
ing to the police, poisoned herself yes
terday a few hours before her fiauco,
Dr. Eldreilge 1). Atwood, shot and prob
ably fatally wounded Da. Wilfred E. Har
ris, was anticipated to-day as likely to
have an important bearing on the mo
tive of the crime as explained by At
wood, who told the police that the young
woman intimated to him the night be
fore her death that she could not marry
him because she had been compromised
by Harris. Atwood was arraigned iu
court this morning and in default of
$15,000 bonds was committed to jail for
further hearing, July 28. H did nut
plead.
Physicians at the hospital reported
Harris' condition as very critical. The
shooting took place yesterday afternoon
in a Hack Bay hotel, where Harris had
an office.
Mr. Atwood, an osteopath, of 13 Law
rence street, Woburn, walked into the
Hotel Westminster yesterday afternoon
rang the bell at the office of Dr. Harris,
president of the Massachusetts College
of Osteopathy, was admitted by Dr. Har
ris himself and fired five shot at his for
mer teacher. All concerned are osteo
paths. The autopsy will probably be
held late to-day.
Both Dr. Atwood and his fiancee studied
osteopathy under Dr. Harris when he
was an instructor at the Massachusetts
college. The friendship which began be
tween the student in the class room six
years ago ripened into love. At wood
told the police last night they had
planned to be married soon although
I nilliK nntuic I f inn Y A ilairnlrtnAil fn tKa
Baltimore, July 19 Shut off entirely rJ VC "r. "JV JZ?.t" u?.
from the view of the public, the German f Vr t . . h'. ;I w,3
. . . I. , . . . JJr. Harris. Ihe girls parents ohiectea
on account of a disparity in aces, a
Miss Adams was 27 years of age, while
Dr. Atwood la only 23. Dr. Harris is
43.
On Monday, according to Dr. Atwood
alleged statement, his sweetheart con
fided to him that the real reason why ah
could not marry him concerned Dr. Ha
ris, and, after a quarrel, he left her a
merchant submarine Deutschland is be
lieved ready to mi at any moment
There was little activity apparent about
the boat to-day, it being said that all
the return cargo of crude rubber and
nickel was now in the hold. Two big
oil tank cars standing on R switch near
the pier had not been emptied and tt was
said to-day that their contents were not
for the Deutschland but for her sister
WILL VISIT CHELSEA.
Next Board of Trade Trip Will Be to
Orange County Shire Town July ifl.
Harre'a Better Acquaintance tours, in
augurated a few weeks ago when nearly
2K people went to MarahftVId for an
evening, will lie resumed on the night
of Wednesday, July U6, with Chelsea
a the destination.' This much wat de
cided yehterday when members of the
Hoard of Trade committee went to Chel-
sea and completed arrangement with
the Ten Pin club to provide supper lor
the Barre visitors ami townspeople, Ih
time the number of tickets is to lve lim
ited to 1.50. A band will be taken along
and the program will be carried out
along lines followed when the Better Ac
quaintance tour led to .Marnhtield. yvw
slides for the pictures have been pro
vided.
Members with ladies are invited to go.
Ticket can be secured of H. A. Phelps
Free transportation will be furnished
t!ioe not having cars and those who do
are axked to go with them and carry
those who do not nave them.
Conference with the ladies of the Ten
Pin club yesterday led to a very inter
eating discussion of how the club came
to be organized. It transpire that twen
ty-five years ago a number of Chcla
women came to Harre tor a days out
ing. Bent on seeing both towns, they
went to the capital and then returned to
Barre, where they chanced across a loea
jeweler, a former resident of Chelsea
who interested them in a supply of ail
ver puis ot odd design, r.ach woman
went home with a silver pin as a result
of the visit to the jewelers and when
they were made the objects of good nu
tured Ixwitering by their husbands for
purchasing "tin puis," the Tin Pin club
became a permanent organization.
In the quarter-century of its existence
much has been accomplished by the club
now known as the Ten I'in club. Xo
village improvement society has lee;i
more actively interested in civic welfare
and in late vears the club has assist.
very materially in providing the village
with cement sidewalk, furnishing the
interior of tTielseas splendid civic build
ing ami aiding in other good works. To
the fact that the club has never had any
officers the women ascribe the continual
presence of harmony among the mem
bers.
GIRL MAIL CARRIER
PINNED UNDER AUTO
Miss Edna Wells of North Concord Has
Exciting Experience Not Badly
Injured.
. v. ,. i -I. t ..a . . i t . u i . : ...
null,, iiic iiciut:ii, c.iiiTvir'i 111 hit; ii,-ti I, , , , ,,
1 ' 1 h sntil slip ritH mir ioa u'M
Dr. Atwood took his arrest eoollv. He
future.
was taken to the City hospital, where
f)r. Harris was lying in a semi-conscious
condition. Only atter the police capfcaj
having Atwood in custody had repeated
ly called Dr. Harris' name did the wound
York, July 19. The writ of ed man open his eyes.
corpus sworn out by United In a low tone, he identified Dr. Atwood
HABEAS CORPUS DISMISSED.
United States District Attorney Mar
shall Must Go to Washington
New
habeas
States District Attorney H. Snowden as the man who had shot him. The
Marshall to prevent his removal to young osteopath, according to Captai
Washington to answer for alleged con-1 Goode, his custodian, broke into the
tempt of the House of Representatives questioning with an oath directed at Dr,
was dismissed to-day by Federal Judge Harris, and said
Hand. Attorney Marshall was remanded "Yee, I shot you, and I wish I had
to the custody of Robert B. Gordon, I killed you.
sergeant at arms of the House. I Upon being taken to the police sta
tion, Dr. Atwood was closely questioned
DEATHS TAKE A JUMP. tor two hours. He admitted everything
according to the police and showed ab
Number from Infantile Paralysis in New normal calmness. He marched to his cell
York 10 To-dav whistling popular airs softly under hi
. j - , arii
Xew York. .Tnlr lfl. TlnM, rf-.tn. .ml ur.1"' Hra."n""'l,ra u in
new cases in the infantile paralysis epi
demic took another jump to-dav with 30
eaths and 142 new cases reported in
the greater city for the pat twenty-four
ours, i hjs increase makes a jump o1
150 per cent in the last 48 hours.
terview with reporters.
NATURALIZATION COURT.
INJURED BY AUTO.
GERMAN GAINS.
Have Recaptured a Portion of Delville
Wood, London Announces.
London, July 19. The Germans have
recaptured a portion of the Delville wood
and obtained a footing in the northern
outskirts of Longueval, the war office
announced to-day.
TWO MORE SHIPS SUNK.
Charles Carrigan of Brandon Badly Hurt
at Camp Whitman, N. Y.
Brandon, July 19. Word has been re
ceived from Frank Carrigan, who went
Fifteen Given Final Papers at Granite
ville Eighteen Get First Papers.
A total of 33 applicants, 18 applying
for first papers and 15 for second papers
went through the mill at the Granite
ville session of the United States nat
uraliatiou court vesterdav. (1crk F. S
Piatt of Rutland, who conducted the
hearings on the hill, 'came to Harre this
Italians Lose One and Greeks Another in
Mediterranean.
London, July 19. A Lloyds despatch
from Algiers says the Italian steamship
Angelo Hon was sunk by a submarine.
The crew was landed. The Greek steam
ship Evangclistria is believed to have
been sunk.
BRITISH STEAMSHIP CAPTURED.
Adams, 2200 Tons, Taken by German De
troy er Off Coast of Sweden.
Stockholm, via London, July 19. It is
reported here the British steamship
Adams, 2200 ton, wae captured by the
German destroyer off Ahus, Sweden,
while on a voyage from Finland.
RUSSIANS STRONGLY REINFORCED.
On Front South and Southeast of Riga
Attacks Fail
Berlin, via London. July 19. The Rus
sians bare been strongly reinforced along
the front aouth and southeast of Figs
and have been heavily attacking Fiei.i
Marshal Von Hindenburg's forces there,
the war offi- announced to-day. The
assaults, however, all failed, the Rus
sian suffering unusually heavy Jof-ses.
Monday noon with Mrs. Carrigan to morning and a session of court opened in
Camp Whitman. X. Y.. where their son. tne court room at city hall this after
Charles, who recently enlisted in a New non at 2 o'clock. Adjournment will
York reciment. was run over and serious- take place sometime this evening. It
ly injured by an automobile, that he was was expected that a good-sized class of
resting ha comfortably as could be ex- candidates for citizenship would apply in
pectcd. He is in a serions condition. 1 Harre.
first papers were applied tor at uran-
iteville bv the following: Massimo Aee-
to, Italy; Generoso Portella. Spuin; I -an
neano Campo, Spain; James Campbell,
I-j,orI. Inhn T CllU, X t .
c.tj !;; .1 . ..r, ...... , .... .,,
i,nm..u..g.n.u.n.,.u,ri,7 '"' Theodore Gingras, Quebec; William P.
4, w ... - Imbvh. Scotland; Adolfo Lavin. Spain;
Miss Rosetti Fressim arrived in the , ,,,. .:. 4jom r ,..; t.
cny mis morning ana m ysn irimui Und. H?nry z Lib,r(.Pnt, guohoc; Onne
vC,, . L mbt nen. Finland: William A. McAu-
Mr. and Mrs. Lee lownsend anddaugh- .... nw. UiK.r pri .;.
. r-- f Ti.:nA.iJ .... ,.;;, ...n, ' ' ....... .
..,..u:.u -. ,.g - Franc sco Martinet. Sna n: An-rel Pe nn
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mr. and Mrs. John McMinn of Brook-
relatives in the eitv lor a lew day
Victor Smith of the east hill left this
morning for Hanover, X. H., where 1
enters the Thayer School
ing this week.
Mrs. John Bishop, who has been visit
ing friends in the city for several days,
returned to her home in Tort Kent, N.
on the noon train. .
Alton B. Benevides, who hss been vis
pmn.
Applications for final papers were made
by the following eandiilates: Joseph
Bishop. Canada; Alexander Duncan, Que
bec; William Elliott. England; Herbert
Gilliver. England; Johan F. Kanervo,
Finland; Dona Madore. Quebec; Phillip
Mavotte, Quebec; Frank J. Murphy, Que
bec; Leonard J. Pemble, England; An-
P
THE REV. F. W. DAY RESIGNS.
mIa Pamlln T t 1 t flrrAnn Piri. C.
ling inerms on .orm .-enunarv sireer 1 10 j . .!,., c.,rinn Ftnl.n- r.
ior uie pasi io weens, reiurned to ni shampou. Quebec; Frank Sillonpa, Fin
ii... .u ' ........ f- ...... ... I ... , I I.. J . IT ,a i' Untw
aim ..no. lviiii.m j. I prrv l
Washington street left this morning for
Danville Green, where they will viit
ith friends fT the next ts weeks.
Mr. and Mrs. Leslie t lough and son.
Wendell, returned to their home on Tre-
mont street this afternoon, after spend
ing the past two weeks encamped at
ork Beach, Me.
Franklin Congregational Pastor Accepts
Call to Swanton Church.
Franklin, Julv 19. After eight years
of service, during which time the church
has ereatlv rroenered. the Kev. F. Wil-
Mr. Margaret Cable, who hss been son Day hss resigned pastor of the
viiting at the home of her sister, Mrs I Firt Congregational church and will
Ale Oonnon on Merchant street for the I accent the call recently extended to him
past two weeks, returned this noon t by the Congregational church at Pwsn-
her borne in Wakefield, -Mass. Mrs. t a-1 ton. Mr. Days reaignatmn is to take
ble waa accompanied home by her eon. effect September 15. The Franklin
Wendell, wbo has been visiting his aunt, I church will take immediate action
Mrs. Connon, for several aeek. toward the selection of his successor.
St. Johnsbury. July 18. Miss Edna
Wells, mail carrier from Xorth Concord
to Granby, narrowly escaped death yes
terday when she was pinned under her
car at hast St. Johnsbury. She was
just starting out on her route when her
auto ran into some sand and turned tur
tle, Mies Wells being held beneath it.
Men from East St. Johnsbury lifted the
car and earned the young woman to a
nearby house. She was badly bruised
but will recover.
DUNCAN ROBERTS.
Barre Man Marries Daughter of Montpe
lier Fire Chief.
At the home of Mr. and Mrs. W. A.
Pattee, 28 East State street, Montpelier,
at 8 o clock last evening, their daughter,
Hernice Harrie Roberts, and James
Mitchell Duncan of Barre were united
in marriage, Rev. F. Rarnby Leach, rec
tor of Christ Episcopal church, perform
ing the ceremony. The bride was given
away by her father, chief of the Mont
pelier fire department, and was attended
by Miss Mildred Merrill. The grooms
man was John F. Carroll of Barre and
the flower girl Miss Geraldine Cornell of
Springfield, Mass. They were marrfed
beneath an arch of evergreen, which was
relieved by an (attractive arrangement of
roses, sweet peas and white elder. The
orchestra was concealed by group of
palms. The bride wore white taffeta and
Georgette crepe, with a veil of white tulle
with orange blossoms, and carried a bou
quet of lilies of the valley. The brides
maid wore a rose and silver gown of
satin supreme and carried roses.
Immediately following the ceremony a
reception was held in the dining room,
which was prettily trimmed with flowers
and ferns, and the following young ladies
served: Misws Nancy Puffer, Hilda
Brooks, Hilda Sheridan of Montpelier,
and Mary Duncan of Plainfield, X. J.
Mrs. Duncan was graduated from Mont
pelier high school in 1910 and for several
years has been employed in the Montpe-
ler office of the ermont Mutual Fire
Insurance Co. She has a host of friends
n Montpelier and Barre. The irroom at
tended Spaulding high school and God-
dard seminary end i employed as a buy
er for the wholesale granite firm of
Charles A. Metcalf. Mr. and Mrs. Dun
can left last evening for a two weeks'
wedding trip in New Jersey and Pennsyl
vania. I hey will reside at 4(1 Park
street, this city.
VETERANS
MEET AGAIN
Record Breaking Attendance
of Washington County
Men at Dewey Park
GOVERNOR GATES TO
ADDRESS GATHERING
Necrology of Year Shows
Total of 35 Members Tak
en in Past Year
WAS SHOT WITH
WILLIAMS' RIFLE
NEW SIDEWALKS FOR
ELM AND SMITH STS
Bottinelli-Buzii.
Xews has been received in the city of
the marriage of Miss Laura Huzzi, "for
merly of Harre to Paul Bottinelli ot
Waterford, Conn., Sunday evening. The
ceremony took place at the home of the
groom's brother. D. Bottinelli, at New
London, Conn. The couple were attended
by Mrs. Anthony Altieri of this citv, who
cted as bridesmaid and Mr. Altieri was
best man. After the wedding cere
mony, a wedding supper was served, att
er which the couple started on their wed-
tour which will take them through
ifferent parts of Connecticut and Xew
ork. There were many Wedding gitt.
mong them silver, cut glass, linens and
gold. The couple on their return from
their trip will reside at Waterford. Conn..
here the groom is employed as a stone
cutter. The bride is a well known young
lady of Barre. having lived with her sis
ter, Mr. Anthony Altieri in Fortney
place for several year. The groom is
lso well known m Barre. having been
city until about three months ago.
With a record breaking attendance, the
19th annual reunion of the Washington
County Veterans' association opened this
forenoon at Dewey park, the association
being favored with better weather condi
tions than is usually the case. Secretary
John R. Wilson of Worcester and Presi
dent Dr. K. J. Foster of Waterbury were
busy greeting the memliers of the asso
ciation and preparing for their comfort.
Dinner was served in the pavilion at
noon to nearly liiXI, the Woman's Relief
corps of Barre and Montpelier uniting in
furnishing the noonday meal.
Governor C. . Gates is expected to
be present this afternoon to make a brief
address ami others who have signified
their intention of being present are De
partment Commander H. C. Streeter of
Brattleboro, Department Chaplain L. C.
Bush of the same town, and Colonel
Foster of Calais.
At the campfire to be held this even
ing States Attorney l-red i-..-uieason
and other attorneys are expected to make
addresses and the veterans will join in
rehiring reminiscences and in singing war
songs.
To-morrow forenoon the president will
make his annual address, reports of the
dicers will be heard, and the election of
officers for the year ensuing will take
place.
The necrology of the year reports the
eath of 35 members since the last meet-
ng of the organization, as follow:
Alba F. Bohonon, Co. I., 9th. Age 72.
Date and place of death not given.
George Dow, Co. C, 2d. Age 73. Cab
ot, July. 1914.
John M. Stone, Co. F., 1st. Age 80.
Williamstown, August, 1914.
Oughtnev Jangraw. 2d Bat. Age 74.
Montpelier, October 2, 1915.
Stephen B. Blodgett, Co. tv, 4tn. Age
1. Cabot, October 18, 1915.
Curtis B. Whiting, Co. I., 11th Age 77.
East Thetford, Oct. 19, 1915.
W. H. H. Mack, Co. F., Sth.
Cabot. Oct. 21, 1915.
Louis Wood, X. IL Regt.
Montpelier, Xov. 8, 1915.
Dayton P. Clarke, Co. F., 2d.
Montpelier, Xov. 10, 1915.
Edmund Jules, Co. D., Sth.
Montpelier. Xov. 2fl, 1915.
Toeeph W. Roger. Age (1.
cola, FIs.. Dee. 4. 1915.
Daniel Worcester, 27th Comm.
Soldiers home. Bennington. Dec. 16, 1915.
Ai M. Reed, Co. K., 7th. Age 71.
Korthfield. Jan. 13. 1916.
W. Henry Worcester, ISth Mass. Age
m. Lowell, Mass., Jan. 14, 1916.
J. A. Locklin, Co. F., 1st. Age 74
Xorthfleld, Jan. 15. 1916.
Lewis M. Stromr, Co. K.. 3d. Age 73.
South Woodbury, Jan. IS, 1916.
William H. Hudson, Co. D.. 11th. Age
76. Middlesex, Jan. 25, 1916.
John Collins, 1st S. S. Age 92. Barre,
Feb. 11, 1916.
John L. Kibbee, 3d Bat. Age 85. Hard
wick. Feb. 12, 1916.
A. P. Brigham, navy. Age 86. Orange,
Feb. 21, 1916.
M. M. Davie, Co. B., 13th. Age 73.
Moretown. Feb, 29, 1916.
Homer H. Hollister, Co. F., 6th. Age
79. Barre, March 8, 1916.
Alexander Spicer, 15th Mass.
Winooski, M,irch 13, 1916.
James Ennis, Co. K., 17th.
Waterburv, alareh 23, 1916.
J. Hazen Wood, Co. F.. 16th.
Randolph, .March 25, 1916.
Orrin Daily, Co. F., th. Age 85.
Montpelier, April 13, 1916.
Sylvester O. Alden, Co. D., 2d. Age 79.
Montpelier, May 12. 1916.
Frank Knowl'es, Co. C, 15th. Age SO.
Northtield, May 14, 1916.
Alfred B. Thompson, Co. I.. 13th. Age
81. Moberlv, Mo., May 23, 1916.
John Brassaw, 10th X. H. Age 71.
Soldiers' home, Bennington, May 22, 1916.
Joseph Persons, Co. I., 11th. Age il.
East Calais, June 8, 1916.
Frank Davis, Co. K.. 4th.
West Topshani, Feb. 3. 1916.
J. X. Hosford. Co. G., 10th.
Berlin, June 29, 1916.
George M. Smith, Co. E., 17th.
Montpelier, July fl. 1916.
Frank E. iWnford. (V. I.. 11th.
72. Medford, Mass., July 1, 1916.
Age 71.
Age 77.
Age 75.
Age 77.
Pensa-
Age 84.
Favorable Report on Same Accepted by
the City Council Short
Session of Body.
City councilor legislated in their shirt
sleeves last night owing to the intense
heat and made short shrift of a small
budget of routine business, the quicker
to rid themselves of the stuffy atmos
phere of the council chamber and seek
the open air, inadequate as it was to the
needs of most people who sought relief
from the long rays of the July sun. Our
own municipal statesmen, even though
they are callous to criticism, are not
immune from the heat and they madu
no attempt to conceal their satisfaction
at the prospect of adjourning an hour
after the session was culled. Aldermen
Shurtleff and Bruce were absent, but if
they find themselves out of luck licit
time the council convenes they may be
in for one of the all-night sessions not
uncommon in recent months.
Residents of Elm and Smith streets
are to have new sidewalks, if they fur
nish the necessary curbing, as soon as
the street committee gets time to do the
work. Favorable report on each peti
tion were returned bv the street com
mittee ami their recommendations wcro
ordered carried out. A number of peti
tioners for a sidewalk on Tremont street,
from Elm to Park streets, will be noti
fied that their request is in the hands of
the committee. Estimating the cost of
the proposed Johnson street water ex
tension at $1(XI for 200 feet, with an in
come of $15 yearly, the water committee
recommended that the work be done
Which recommendations were accepted.
Building permits were granted Henry
Lunda for a piazza on Granite street, C.
W. Averill, to erect a dwelling house on
Tremont street, and F. G. Howland, to
build a porch at 15 Keith avenue. The
inspectors report on minor permit'
granted in .Tune was accepted. Wiring
permits were granted in the following
caes: t. L. Wetmore, Uldsmouue i o.
of Vermont, R. Q. McDonnell and O. W.
Boyea, lights; C. Bianchi & Sons, for a
motor, and the M. & B. Light & Power
Co., for a motor. B. Piocianelly was
granted a lunchroom license and Law
rence Rising was given an eating stand
lunch for circus day at a fee not to ex
ceed $3. Mrs. Cardini was given assur
ance that the practice of dumping rub
bish opposite her Xorth Main street
premises will be abated and T. C. Mc
Carthy was told to go ahead with plans
for moving a barn 30 feet to the east
ward on his South Main street property
A complaint that the garbage man has
been neglecting the City hospital was re
ferred to the health committee.
Warrants were approved for payment
in the following order: Park commis
sion, $100, to apply on 1936 appropria
tion; street department payroll, $oOS.fi,,
streets, sprinkling, sewers, sidewalks and
health accounts; water department pay
roll, 93.17; fire department payroll, $Sst
police department payroll, $101.89; G. A.
Bemis, $14, service as janitor; Vt. Tel.
Tel Co., $10.52, service; $100, W. J.Clapp,
for the support of the poor.
The Latter Active in Bring
ing About Felch's Death,
is Contention ' ttorney-GencralBa-
,in Opening
of Murd- Nnal in Orange
roim
1 fc4 1 '
T J.
Villi
STATE'S CASE IS
BRIEFLY OUTLINED
Circumstances Surrounding
Felch's Death Preclude the
Theory of Suicide, Testi
fied State Pathologist Dr.
B. H. Stone Father of
Victim, a Witness To-day
Age 67.
Age 71.
Age 74.
DEATH OF J. A. McLEOD.
Was for Many Vears a Blacksmith
This City.
Age 75.
Age 75.
Age 71.
Age
ALBANO'S BAIL IS $5,000.
Arraigned Before Judge Scott in City
Court This Morning.
Bail of $5,000 was fixed by Magistrate
H. W. Scott in the case of State vs. Eu
sebio Albano, when the respondent was
arraigned in city court, yesterday after
noon. Albano, who was located in Xev
York last week and accompanied to
Barre yesterday by Officer Harry Gam
ble, was brought to the city from the
county jail. State's Attorney F. E. Glea
son represented that the charge preferred
against the man is shooting with intent
to kill Luigi Camti at 9 Webster avenue
on the morning of July 2. Albano ap
peared without counsel and waived el-
;amination. His bail was furnished by
! Jerome Yalli. The case is returnable in
J. A. McLeod, for many years a promi
nent blacksmith of Barre and a veteran
of the British army, passed away at his
home, 50 Elm street, Tuesday evening at
6:30 o'clock, the end following an illness
of 16 months. The funeral service will
be held in the First Presbyterian church
this evening at 7:30 o'clock, Rev. Edgar
Crossland, the pastor, officiating. To
morrow morning the bodv will be taken
to Megantic, P. Q., for burial, the funeral
party leaving over the Montpelier
Wells River railroad at 7:20 o'clock.
John Angus McIeod was born in Sher-
brooke, P. Q., Sept. 9, 1S39. At the age
of 16 he entered upon an apprenticeship
as a horseshoer, Inter joining the British
army, where he served as a horseshoer
for 13 years and obtained the rank of
master horseshoer. As a member of that
trade he had obtained a wide reputation
since coming to Barre m 1899. He con
ducted a shop on Seminary street. Mr.
McLeod was a charter member of Gill
lodge, Xo. 57, Odd Fellows, of East Barre,
belonged to the Rebekah encampment and
was an honorary member of Han Gor
don. Xo. 12, O. S. C. He was an adherent
of the First Presbyterian church.
His marriage to Christie McDonald
took place in (anada Sept. 11. 1878. Her
death occurred Xov. 4, 1911. Mr. McLeod
is survived bv his second wife, who was
Mr. Ora Mills, and one son, Ixiwell Mc
Leod of Barre. There are also three
brothers, Alex and Malcolm McLeod of
Megantic. P. Q., and Donald McLeod of
Blue Earth. Minn., and a sister residing
in Gault. Canada.
CAPT. GIFF0RD COMING.
One of Most Active Members of Salva
tion Army to Speak in Barre.
Capt. Adam Gifford of Boston, one of
the most active workers rf his organize
tion in Xew England, will be the princi
pal speaker at the Salvation Army cam
paign meeting in the Barre Congrega
tional church Friday evening at 8 o'clok
William McDonald of Addison place, a
well-known layman of the Baptist
church, will preside and members of oth
er denominations are expected to join
in the meeting. Fifteen years hae
Ts,i since Salvationists in Barre enter
tained such a prominent tnenilr of their jline of action to I1 tol!owed by the stat-?
Chelsea, July 19. Circumstances im
mediately surrounding the death of Jo
seph Felch at Waits River on the night
of April 22 precluded the theory of sui
cide, according to the testimony of Dr.
B. H. Stone of Burlington, state patholo
gist, when the trial of State vs. Otis Wil
liams, charged with murder in the first
degree, was resumed in Orange county
court to-day. Technical aspects of the
investigation on the day after the body
of Felch wag found, identification of the
jrun used in the killing and other ex
hibits, and the. story of the autopsy in
the schoolhouse hall at Waits River were
brought out in the pathologist's testi
mony. When court came in at 9 o'clock thU
morning Myron J. Buck, the Bethel civil
engineer whose testimony bulked large in
yesterday's proceedings, was recalled to
the stand. Objections offered by the de
fense to one of three maps prepared by
the witness prompted the court to ex
cuse him from testifying further, pend
ing the preparation of another plan. . Dr.
C. F. Whitney of Burlinsrton. an assist
ant to the state pathologist, was the next
witness and he had testified but a few
moments when he was called from the
stand, ais it was decided that his state
ment could be received more properly
after another witness had testified.
Late this forenoon John Felch, father
of the alleged victim, wag introduced by
the state. The elder Felch testified that
he was called to his son's home on the
Sunday morning when the body was dis
covered in the sugarhouse. He hurried
to the woods, accompanied by Tom Smith
and Will Cunningham, and was the first
to enter the sugarhouse. Surveying the
horrible sight on the floor in front of him,
he paused an instant and then crossed
the room and knelt by his son's remains.
"Speak to me, Joe," pleaded the elder
Felch, according to his testimony to-day.
But life had left the body of the son.
Before he was excused Felch had iden
tified the rifle which lay under his son's
body that morning and the lantern, with
its globe shattered by a bullet. Felch
etated that he extinguished the flame in
the lantern after he had looked over the
surroundings. Felch was recalled to the
stand when court reconvened this after
noon at 2 o'clock.
Dr. Stone was closely questioned by
the prosecutors and in the cross exam
ination. He testified that there were no
powder marks on Felch's body or face,
that a gun must be within four feet of
the object aimed at in order to produce
a powder mark, and that the condition
of the body, considering the absence of
powder marks, the location of the body,
and the juxtaposition of the IkhIv and
the rifle disposed of the suicide theory.
Dr. Stone said he drew a line from the
hole near the sugarhousn door to the
spot where the bullet was found inbed-
ded in the beam. A bullet, he said, would
have passed through the Iintern globe
as it hung from an over-beam and a man
sitting on the bench across from th
evaporator would be struck by the mis
sile. In other words, both the lantern
globe and Felch's head, he siid, wero
right in the line of a bullet shot from
the crevice near the dmir and imbedded
in the beam where the death-dealing bul
let was actuallv found.
Pictures taken by Dr. Stone at thd
sugarhouse and during the autopsy wcro
shown to the jury and admitted as ex
hibits along with the lantern ami the gun.
Attorney General's Opening Statement.
That circumstantial evidence must per
force bulk large in the state ca.e against
Otis Williams was disclosed indirectly
in the openine statement of Attorney
(ieneral H. G. Barber. A hundred ciger-
eyed men and momen followed the prose
cutor as he outlined, step bv step, the
mploved in different stonesheds in this' repieraoer icrm oi .sningion ciin- ortraBjMtIon. It will he recalled that!in its attempt to prove that William
i, svi mnr1r l-.r
FURTHER TALK OF PEACE.
'Commander Eva Booth spoke in the Con- lis guilty of complicity in one of the most
'gregational church, out sine her visit atrocious murders ever committed m
ll..r none of the more noted members of Vermont. Jurors and attorneys alikn
the Army have been in Barre. Brigadier j ere permitted by the court to strip
Andrews, the divisional officer, and Mr-. their coats and while the spectators di I
A.ndre of Hartford. Conn., will also be not benefit br this courtesy, those h.
Washington.sJuly 19- Dr. Paul Fitter, i present during the campaign, (. apt. G.f-1 listened thruch the statement and then
turner io ioi'ow io nnes-e in tie
Peter Puricelli returned from Breton'
yesterday, where he has been viMtma ... . . . . . -
wo weeks. Mr Puricelli w,ll Trumr h J Minister I rem switseruno uiscwses me
uties as driver at the fire station to- Witter wun secretary roiK.
morrow mormnc
Miss Annie Iear left on the nonn triin minUtar tmm Kn-itrerlanti tn-rfv Wis-i ford will lecture cn the wcrk d"i,r by
for White Fiver Junction. here nhe will cucd the prospects of peace in Europelfie Army in the lni!l Mte. tap;.
ork for the remainder of the summer ,ith Acting Secretary of State Polk. It Hel Hood of the local barrsrks is ui
t the Juction bouse, a'ter visiting rela-'wa afterwards indicated that the t:kcharge ,f arrangements for the cam-
tnes en Fpxk street for a few days. wjs without tangible results. F1
follow two witnesses
preliminary examination felt tie het
but suffered in silence. Every effort wis
(Continued oa e's'.tb pise.)
