?, ' tC7 "' -'^"- !?5Ti'S -^TW*' , -T, '^y-"T -- i,-?S^- - - : > - - >t* .- - - . . V ...-, .... .- , - - ;-_. ?t r - . - ?,, . - ,.. - -jr-_ - ;,. ... .. ?7_ - , . ,.^-^.g. .- | , - ~ _ _ .. ______ _ ? ?=? r
? ' /'
WEATHER. ^ ^ ^ lQ * "From Prew to Home
Fair tonight and tomorrow: warmer to- ^ a J M /- J a. -A ^ A . A ? A A ? a . . a A il L\^l ????????
mm w\i% 9 |T wT ljrYT?w lw *^BST ^^w^ Ida Within the Hom"
?&*? *- UHlg pUStliiwX 9iuT? *.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 14. S 1?1?. Daily Avrrnc, <UI1| Saa?ay. B8A71.
No. 29,494. WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1916?EIGHTEEN PAGES. ONE CENT.
POLAND PROMISED
KINGOFITS OWN
Austro-German Proclamation
Read in Warsaw, Causing
Great Rejoicing.
ARMY IS TO BE CREATED
WARSAW, November 5, via Berlin
and London, November 6.?The manifesto
of Emperor William and Emperor
Francis Joseph again calling into existence
the ancient kingdom of Poland
was read at noon" today to the assembled
Polish renresentatives in the royal
palace by Gov. Gen. von Beseler.#
Outside In the great square before
the castle and in the spacious court3*ard
of the venerable fourteenth century
pile inhabitants of the old Polish
capital gathered by the thousands to
attend the ceremony of what is designated
as the rebirth of the Polish nation?a
concept the importance and
bearing of which are making their way
into the minds of the people more or
less rapidly after its long sleep of more
than a century.
Quickest to realize the significance of
the day are the academic youth of the
country, students of the University of
"Warsaw, the Polytechnic School and
other higher institutions of learning,
who attended the ceremony in corporate
units, bearing ribbons.
Volunteers for Army.
This afternoon they are leading parades
and demonstrations through
streets bright with red flags. There
are volunteers by the hundreds for the
Polish, army, which, the manifesto announced
will be called into existence.
The ceremony was short and simple.
Precisely at noon Gen. von Beseler. wearing
the decorations granted for the reduction
of Antwerp and the Polish fortresses.
mounted the dais in the gala ballroom
of the old Jagellonian castle, and.
in the name of Germany's sovereign, read
the imperial htanifesto in ringing soldierly
tones. When he ceased the Polish Count
Hutten-Czapski. the palace commandant,
read from a leather-bound pamphlet to
the Polish notables a translation of the
manifesto in their own language.
Then came cheers from the hitherto
silent crowd?cheers for Poland, Emperor
William. Emperor Francis Joseph, for
Germany and the Germans and for Gen.
von Beseler. President Brudzinski of the
recently elected city council, who is rector
of the University of Warsaw, advanced
before the dais, and, in the Polish tongue,
gave thanks for the imperial decree.
Promises to Be Worthy.
He asserted the determination of the
Poles to be found worthy of the liberties
conferred and asked that as the first step
toward the formation of the government
a regent be appointed for the kingdom,
since the time was not ripe for the nomination
of the hereditary sovereign promised
in the manifesto. President Brudzinski.
who was in plain civilian attire
without decorations, seemed to represent
the spirit not of the ancient Poland and
the Polish chivalry, but of the modern
intellectual Poland.
Gen. von Beseler replied in crisp,
soldierly phrases that in the midst of
the world war had come the mcment
of fulfillment of the long-cherished
Polish wish for re-establishment of the
Polish kingdom.
' Tiniihtg ou n P.,*? v. ? :.i
?1UIUIC, IIU C90.H1>
' can find no place in Polish hearts. It
will be our task, shoulder to shoulder,
with the residents of Poland, to carry
the wa- to a victorious conclusion ar.d
to hea' the wounds of the wa \ Take
your places at our side in confidence,
which we repay by the magnanimous
decision of the Austro-Gerinan monarch?
who place their sea! on the plans
for the unity of Poland. We hope that
soon a Polish army will be fighting
on our ^fide in token of the sentiment
for developmept of the new kingdom.
Hay all good fortune attend the kingdom
of Poland."
Sing Polish National Anthem.
A band in an adjoining gallery struck
up the strains of the ancient national
hnthem, and after a few bars had
been played the Poles in the hall burst
spontaneously into the strains which
recite the ancient glories, the fallen
fortunes and tha undying hopes of
Poland.
Twenty minutes saw the end of the
ceremony and the participants, discussing
the future, slowly made their
way from the palace through the
crowded courtyard into the throng outside.
So far as an observer unfamiliar
with the language could judge, there
seemed to be a sentiment of genuine
enthusiasm among The Polish representatives
in the hall. In the assemblage
were th?- members of the new
city council, delegate* from the university,
th<* faculty of the Academy of
Science and Arts, members _of the Roman
Catholic clergy, headed by the
archbishop in the brilliant robe of a
?ardinal, which he was entitled to wear
as prirnate of the Polish Church; the
bearded chief rabbi and Jewish subordinates
and leading representatives of
the old Polish aristocracy. While Gen.
von Beseler was reading the manifesto
inside the palac crowds si-armed posters
bearing the text of the proclamation
which were being posted at every
street corner. Handbills wi re distributed
among the crowd which jammed
the pala?:* , square and adjoining streets
so tightly that it was a physical impossibility
to distribute the news' in
Its official form t-xccpt very slowly.
l'r? sently the student body, which
had a place of honor within the Courtyard,
emerged from the castle Jbrtal
and it; a slow serpentine line wormed
it:> way through the multitude, bearing
banners of the birth of the Polish
army. The cries and cheers of th?
students proved a quicker means <>j
spreading the news of what had taker
place.
The short winter day shone full ol
brilliancy upon the vast assemblage
The sunshine quickly faded into lh<
dusk of a northern evening. Streei
lamps flared out upon the crowds promenading
through the long main thor
ough fares of Warsaw to the clanginjj
bells of the cathedrals and churches o
the Polish capital.
Momentuous Historic Event.
BERLIN. November by w ireless t
Sayville.?"Polish provinces occupies
by troops of the central powers," say
the Overseas News Agency, in a state
ment issued last night, "were the seen
yesterday of a great and momentou
historic event, Germany and Austria
Hungary by joint action Proclaime
Warsaw and Lublin the kingdom o
Poland and re-established the right o
the Polish nation to control its ow
destinies, to live an independent na
tional life and to govern itself b
chosen representatives of the nation.
"A fpw days aso a Polish delegratio
had called upon the Imperial chancellor
l)r. von Bethmanrr-IIollweff. fta mem
bers were representative Poles of a
classes, all parties, all ranks of so
ciety and all creeds. They transinltte
to the derraan tfov^rninent the u ishe
ttJonUnuedoa Seventh Page)
RUMANIAN VICTORY-1
IN THE DDBRUDJA
Bucharest Reports Retreating I
Teutonic Invaders Burning
Villages Behind Them.
GERMANS ADVANCE IN WEST I
J
By the Associated Press. S
BUCHAREST, November C, via London,
2:11 p.m.?The war office an- e
nounces that Rumanian forces in Do- i
brudja have compelled the retirement of i
Teutonic troops, which in their retreat c
set fire to several villages. o
The villages burned were Daeni, Gar- r
lici. Rosman and Gaidar. Daeni and t
Garlici are on the Danube, twelve miles o
north of Hirsova. Gaidar is eighteen a
miles northeast of Hirsova. All three s
towns are situated about forty miles I
north of the Constanza-Tchernavoda a
railroad line. 1
Advance by Austro-Germans. 1
BERLIN, November 6, by wireless to e
Sayville.?In Rumania, southwest of ?
Predeal, the invading Austro-German ^
forces yesterday captured Laomu 1
height, it is announced officially. Fur- J
ther progress was made southeast of r
Rothentliurm pass. Rumanian attacks y
in the region of the Szurudk pass were p
repulsed. 11
Rosea height, southeast of Altschanz, p
on the frontier of Rumania and Trail- ^
sylvania, which Rumanian troops cap- t
tured November 3. was reconquered Saturday
by Austro-German forces, according
to the war office. The Teutons
also stormed the Rumanian positions at
Clabucetul Baiului, in the Prahova val- c
ley. Saturday 1,747 Rumanians were
taken prisoner and eight cannon and
twenty machine guns were captured by 8
U1C XCUlUIl lUlCCb. u
Bumanian Seaports Shelled. j
Russian warships Saturday shelled i:
the Rumanian seaports of Constanza j
and Mangalia, now occupied by troops n
under Field Marshal von Mackensen. ?
Coast artillery and airplane squadrons c.
chased the hostile ships away. c
An official statement issued yesterday
in Vienna says that November 3 a group
i of Austro-Hungarian monitors landed x,
detachments of men on the Danube island
of Dinu and the Rumanian bank r
of the river opposite it. These detachments
drove back the enemy and cap- *
tured two guns and four munition
wagons. Rumanian reinforcements *=
were put to flight.
STRIVING TO PREVENT
BLOCKADE OF FREIGHT <
t
r
All Operating Officers of Bailroads x
s
Entering' Pittsburgh on Duty 1
to Handle Situation.
I
PITTSBURGH, .November 6.?Oner- c
ating officers of the railroads entering
Pittsburgh were all on duty today in c
an effort to prevent what some of them 1
asserted would become the greatest (
irergju. mucaaue ever Known ir tne *
long streams of traffic pouring: into the 1
district were halted for as much as half
an hour. It was said that 10,000 loaded <
cars were moving between Chicago and <
Pittsburgh on the Pennsylvania north|
west system alone, and the situation on *
j the southwest system and the Pennsyl- <
J vania railroad was equally interesting. !
I Kverv precaution known to modern { <
'railroading, it was asserted, had been j J
1 taken, and, barring such possible j i
{eventualities as heavy fogs iri the valI
leys or a sudden drop in temperature, *
| there would be no stoppage. i
> In the Pittsburgh district proper <
freight offerings have been so heavy 1
that every engine and car obtainable t
has been pressed into service and t
freight is being moved. It was feared, 1
however, by some manufacturers that
they would be compelled to curtail
operations if the supply of empty cars
was not soon increased.
FORMER AMERICAN SHIP j
SUNK BY A SUBMARINE ;
LONDON. November 6.?Lloyds an- \
nounces that the steamship Lanao. de- ,
scribed by the shipping agency as an
American vessel, was sunk October 28 ,
by a submarine. 'The Lanao recently
was transferred from American to Norwegian
registry). Thirty men from the ^
Lanao were landed at Barry by the Norwegian
steampship Trorap.
Lloyds announces also that the British J
steamers Clan Leslie and Statesman have i
been sunk. The Clan Leslie was a vessel i1
of 3.937 tons gross, and the Statesman !
j registered 6.153 tons.
*! I'ntil her transfer to a Norwegian!
I owner the l.ariao was owned* by Findlay. j i
! Millar & Co. of Manila. She was a small j
[vessel of 92 tons gross, 190 feet long j
land 36 feet of beam. She was built in j
' j J912, at Bowling, Scotland. .
| The last report on the movements of
! the Lanao was her arrival at Suez, on
' October 9. on a voyage from Saigon,
i French Cochin China, whence she de1
j parted August 20 for Havre.
; The Norwegian steampship Tromp ar
| rived in Barry roads Saturday.
' 1 The State Department was without
i official advices today on the sinking of
1 | tiie Lanao, and it was said no action
\ | would be taken until it was shown
' ! that the lives of Americans had been
1 j endangered.
PRESIDENT RESTS TODAY.
; |
Receives Many Telegrams, All Prej
j dieting His Re-Election.
I/>N(? BRANCH, N. J., November C.?
: President Wilson spent most of today
j resting at Shadow Lawn, waiting for the
I election tomorrow. He planned no more
j campaign activities. This morning he received
many telegrams and letters from
s democratic leaders in many parts of the
-: country, all predicting his re-election.
e I Tomorrow morning Mr. Wison, accompanied
by Mrs. Wilson, will go by autoinos
bile to Princeton to cast his ballot.
d ?? =r- |
'r THRIFT AND PROFIT.
n The school children of Washington
arc learning thrift through The
-v Star's plan of asking the public to
save the newspapers after reading
n them for the school children's playr'
ground fund.
More than a hundred thousand
11 pounds have already been collected.
j Call Main 6000 and ask for the
d j nearest public school and any acjM
cumulation of old papers will be
i sent for. ^
LOOK FOR HUGHES '
TO GET HMD
Republican Managers Believe
Split Among Democrats
Assures Victory.
rRANCE MAY BEAT LEWIS
pecial l?ispat,ch to The Star.
BALTIMORE, Md., November 6.?The
:ve of election day finds the democrats
ri a wrangle and the republicans puling
together in a solid phalanx. Thus
onditions today are just the reverse
>f four years ago. At that time the
epublican party had befcn split in
wain by the nomination of Roosevelt
n the progressive ticket. Four years
.go Wilson polled 112,674 votes in this
tate, Roosevelt, 57,789, and Taf^, 54,956.
t will be seen by these figures, which
.re official, that the progressivc-rcpubican
combined vote was greater than
he total democratic vote.
Then, too, it is not at all unprecedentd
for Maryland to go republican in
residential years, the state having
leen carried by McKinley in 1900 and
iy Taft in 1908. In the election of
904 Roosevelt secured one elector. Tt
s clearly evident upon this showing
hat Maryland can be classed as a
tear-republican state in presidential
ears. Therefore, with the republican
arty reunited and hundreds of promilent
democrats bolting their own
arty, it is reasonable to assume that
Maryland will this year be carried by
he republicans.
ttr. Franc? Looks Like Winner.
Dr. Joseph I. France, the republican
andidate for the United States Sen
lc, luutio uive a. wiiiiici uvci lvcyicentative
Lewis, as the city democrats
re making: no bones of the fact that
he democratic candidate will be "cut"
n Baltimore, one ward worker assertng
that they "hoped to make the maority
against Lewis 10,000." There is
o gainsaying the fact that the state
nd city democrats are at one another's j
hroats. Chairman Loden of the city
ommittee asserts that no money has i
ome from the state committee and
hat none is wanted from that source.
We will get the money from hardforked
city employes," said Loden tolay,
"but the state crowd will have a
eckoning with us next year."
The money from the state committee
or use in the city has been given to i
Frank" Kelly, a rival democratic orionization
leader, and the state leadrs
are looking to Kelly to deliver the I
otes Tuesday.
Chairman Tait of the republican state
. ommittee, in his election forecast,
laims the state for Hughes and Fairbanks.
He says: "This verdict in favor
?f good citizenship, as represented in
he republican standardbearers, will be
endered by counties and city alike."
Phe chairman then predicts the elecion
of Zihlman in the sixth congres- j
ional district, by one of the "greatest j '
epublican votes In its history."
Says Single Tax Hurts Balston.
Mudd, he claims, will carry the fifth j
listrict, where the "farmers of that 1
fection do not take kindly to the radl- j
:al views of Mr. Ralston, particularly ;
lis belief in the single tax on land
>nly." The forecast concludes: "Our i
)arty is completely united. It will i
:ast its full vote for our ticket, and .
.vith the support of many liberalninded
citizens and independent democrats
we e..pect to carry both city and j
KANSAS CITY, Mo., November 6.? \
Motormen and conductors of the Kan-{
sua City Railways Company, the local
street car organization, were told today
that an increase of pay of approximately
7 per cent will be given them,
starting November 16. The increase Is i
from 1 to 2 cents an hour and the minimum
monthly wage Is raised from $45
to $55.
To Form Two Aero Squadrons.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., November 6.?
Maj. B. D. Foulois, senior military
aviator of the United States Army, reported
today to Maj. Gen. Funston as
department aviator officer, a new position.
He will begin the work of organizing
two new aero squadrons for
the fioathera Department.
- v. , .
. ountf^s next Tuesday."
Chairman Wade of the democratic
jtate committee claims that the Presiient
will get the eight electoral vot^s ;
>f Maryland, asserts that J^ewis will !
:>e elected to the Senate, and that the
lemocrats will hold their present representation
in the lower house at Washngton.
Republican City Chairman Hanson j
ssued a brief statement, in which he ;
jaid: "The republicans of Baltimore 1
3ity are united and working as a man. I
We are in splendid fighting shape, and j
he indications are for a ringing vie- j
ory for the whole republican ticket in i
Baltimore city."
Sees Big- Majority for Wilson.
Democratic City Chairman Doden's |
statement asserted that "Wilson will j
parry Baltimore city by an overwhelmng
majority."
, The prohibitionists will be defeated
n their effort to make Baltimore dry, ;
polls made throughout the city indicating
that the majority for the wets i
will range between 10.000 and 15,000.
The drys closed their campaign last j
Saturday with a great, street parade, in j
which thousands of men, women and \
children marched in a drizzling rain to!
rhe accompaniment of church and mar- j
rial music. The drys took the rainfall i
1,8 an omen that the city will go dry,
iv-hile the wets retort that the drizzle
was but a taste of what is in store for j
the prohibitionists next Tuesday.
' FAIR BUILDING BUKNED.
Grandstand and Neighboring Structures
at Upper Marlboro Destroyed.
Special Correspondence <?f The St?r.
UPPKR MAHLHOKO, Md., November
6.?The grandstand, betting ring and
judges' stand on the grounds of the'
Southern Maryland Agricultural Fait*;
Association were destroyed this morning
by fire. This is the second time
within the past six years that fire visited
the plant. William G. Brooks, sec- j
retary of the association, places the
loss at $5,000. He says the plant will
be rebuilt. The origin of the fire is
unknown, but it is believed that a
trarnp slept there last night and dropped
a match. Jt. was about 8
o'clock when the fire was discovered
and the efforts of the citizens prevented
the destruction of the stables
and adjoining buildings. j
Pay Increase for Street Car Men. !
(
J
GERMANS WIN BACK
GROUNDONSOMME
British and French Not Able to
Retain All They Captured
Saturday.
ATTACKS BY BOTH SIDES
By the Associated Press.
LONDON, November 0.?Neither the
British nor the French were able tc
retain in its entirety the ground woi;
by thern from the Germans on th<
Somme front during Saturday's lighting.
Heavy counter attacks were delivered
by German troops last night or
the new British positions in the neighborhood
of Butte de "Warlencourt
BOUtil Ol lilt' Aiuci I'Jtiu, aic.
the war office today announces that the
British were compelled to give up portions
of them.
Similarly, the French lines were attacked,
and I'aris states that while tht
Germans were held off on the line between
Sailly-Saillisel and St. PierreVaast
wood they were able to recapture
some positions in the wood and it
the village of Saillisel, just to tht
north.
Violent German Attack.
PARIS, November 6 fnoon).?A violenl
attack by German troops was made last
night on the positions captured by th?
French between Sailly-Saillisel and th<
St. Pierre-Vaast wood. The war office
announced today that this assault wat
repulsed with heavy losses to the Germans.
Some ground was gained by the Germans
in trie wood and In the village
of SaBIisel.
On the Verdun front there has beer
active cannonading in th?- Darnloup region.
but no infantry egagements occurred
yesterday or today.
French forces advancing in the region
of Verdun Saturday nightvoccupied
the village of Daniloup. which h
situated nearly a mile to the cast o
the recently captured Fort Vaux. .*
r n-'ber of Germans were taken prisoners.
Reports Continuous Attacks.
BERLIN, November <?, by wireless t<
Sayville.?The British and French
using the strongest forces, made con
tini|ous attacks yesterday on tin
SInmmf front The. war office announce!
that the German troops withstood thes<
attacks unshaken.
T. oops from different parts of Ger
many, under the command of Gens
Baron iviarschal von Deimling and voj
Gamier, withstood the attack unshakei
and inflicted a severe defeat on th<
enemy, the official statement says. Th*
allied enemy on the entire front fron
a t Buchavesnes. a distance o
twenty kilometers, along which the;
attacked, suffered the heaviest san
guinaiy 1 osses and accomplished noth
ing except a small local gain in th
north part of St. Pierre-Vaast wood.
Somme a Defeat for Allies,
Despite Loss of 600,000 Men
According to Berlin's View
BERLIN. November C. by wireless t
Hayvllle.?A report Issued from the Get
man army headquarters with regard t
the battle between the Angio-Frenc
forces and Germans In the Somme regid:
of Frame Is published In the Gerina:
newspapers. It says:
"Contrary to former wars in which th
destiny of nations and continents i
often decided by one battle and in th
space of a few hours, this world-wa
brings battles which go on for month
without important result being decide*
Such is the engagement being fought o
the River Rom me.
i "Thej^attacklng powers, without an
T.HE RIVAL CLAIMANTS.
doubt, conceived and planned a battle
of the greatest style, destined to change
radically the general strategical situation
on the war theaters of three continents.
What is the result? An inflec,
tion of the unshakable German front
hardly noticeable, even on maps of the
largest scale.
At Cost of 600,000 Men.
"The gain of this inflection, according
to conservative calculation, cost about
I ! 600.000 men. a loss that means 2.00C
! men for each square kilometer of ter
; rain transformed into a desert, 'me
enemy has not even obtained the conquest
of Peronne and Bapaume.
"The fact that these figures offer
sharp contrast to the result reached up
to the present is the reason why the
entente powers nowydeny their original
intentions in rqaking the attack.
1 ( and why they affirm that they did not
1 plan to break through, but only to detain
German masses of troops on the
: western front.
"This is the success of the Sommc offensive
undertaken with all the world's
' means and with the highest hopes.
, "The first great thrust of the entente
i offensive in July surpassed German exj
pectations as to power and endurance,
i {but it failed, owing to the unparalleled
- . aggression of the German troops, and
jour assailants gave up their intention
to break through in that direction.
| "Already in August the enemy had
t , passed somewhat the unmethodical tac.
j ties of a genera! pressure against, the
whole front, which, as was natural,
' ! brought only isolated advantages. In
I j September the tactics of the enemy
; j again were completely changed. By an
[ undeniably increased pushing force he
" obtained an important gain in terrain,
j and, resuming his bold intention of
- j breaking through, the enemy directed
j j all his efforts against the top of the
- | triangle and to gain some ground
north of the Somme between that river
- and the Ancre. This meant the deflnlt
live division of the general battle into
5 two separate engagements.
i "The southern battle in the district
I of Blaches and Vermandovlllers, aftei
j the failure of the idea to break through
' on a big scale, resulted in a noticeable
1 gain of terrain in the sector of Berny
t and C'hauines in consequence of pow;
j erful local thrusts. These gains, how.
I ever, could not lnr extended, owing
' j to the heavy losses sustained oy mt
J < attacking troops.
; i
Allied Aims Not Attained.
"In the northern sector the weight
i of the co mm an thrust succeeded in ex^tending
considerably the conquered
triangle by the conquest of Gueude1
court and further terrain, including
" j Combles, during the battle of Septem'
' ber 25 to September 27, but the aim
I of this unheard-of effort?the strateg"
Jcal breach of the lines at the top ol
* ' the triangle?was not obtained, ir
s J spite of murderous fighting beyond
f j all human comprehension.
L "The unheard-of Anglo-French efforts
"(in th?- battles of October also finally
j failed, as the restdt of the. German re(
sisting power, winch certainly had increased
enormously since the middle ol
September.
J "The result of the Sommo battle
' therefore, can be stated as follows: Th<
- j enemy did not succeed in breaking
a j through the German lines. Neither did
I he crush the German forces, whict
( would have meant the shakening of tht
2 j German west front. The enemy die
I not even obtain the modest aim of de_
taining a sufficient number of Germar
! troops on the western front in order tc
I" | impede a great German action in an1
i other war theater.
1 j "Conquered Dobrudja and liberated
^ | Transylvania are proors or una.
rj-??:
THE STAR'S ELE(
I
The results of the elec
? I nished to the public by T
/ by stereopticon on a doubli
o | building, on the Pennsylv;
? ' playing of the bulletins wi
? The Star s election b
" I reports of the Associated
?j graph Company, the Post
"r | The Star's staff and speci.is
Extra editions of The
" portant developments war
' : fr
NEEDFOR DISPOST
PLANT POINTED OU1
! board or I raae sewage committee
Holds Works for Treatment
Also Required.
NO POLLUTION OF OYSTERS
Need for sewage treatment works fo:
the District of Columbia; need for j
plant for the disposal of municipa
waste; statement of the work which has
been done so far to prevent poilutioi
of streams entering- the District fron
neighboring Maryland towns, and <
statement that there is no need of ap
prehension at the present time that th<
sanitary condition of the river is sue!
as to bo a menace to public health bj
pollution of oyster beds in the lowai
river, are points brought out in the an
nual report of the sewage committee o;
: the Board of Trade. The committer
j adopted the report at a meeting held a
noon today, and presented it through lti
1 chairman. Francis R. Weller.
Dealing with the points mentioned, i
sets forth, in part;
"The main sewage outfalls of the dis
posal system at Grimes, on the Po
i tomac river belowT the mouth of th<
Anacostia river, were under observa
* tion during the year, and the river con
ditions in the vicinity of the outfalls
i were subject to careful study; al
t thousrh. however, the conditions wen
not so favorable as in previous years
the increased amount of sewagi
discharged into the river is more apparent
and indicates the approaching
' i need for the removal of a considerabh
| portion of the organic matter before
' discharging the sewage into the river
j "With increasing volume of sewagi
i these conditions will gradually grow
worse, and it is greatly to be deslrec
in the interest of proper sanitation tha
I sewage treatment works be installe<
before the conditions reach such i
stage as to constitute a nuisance ant
menace to public health."
"Reference has been made in :
1 previous report to the sanitary sur
\ vey of the Potomac river, made by th<
United States public health service
' with particular reference to the dis
charge of sewage from the District o
Columbia. Report of this work wa:
published tiuring the year, and give:
indisputable evidence that in impor
tant. respects there is no need of anj
apprehension at the present time tha
the sanitary condition of the river i
such as to be a menace to public healtl
' by pollution of oyster beds in the lowe.
' river or by other causes."
j Hope is expressed that Congress at it
next session will approve of a projec
1 to construct a municipal disposal plant
where disposal can be made of garbage
1 rubbish, ashes and dead animals, "j
systematic and efficient plan for th
1 collection of municipal waste is greatl;
* needed." says the report, "and thi
work should be done directly unde
control of the municipal authoritie
I rather than bv contracts with in?li
| vlduals or corporations."
;tion bulletins
:tions tomorrow will be furbe
Star in bulletins thrown
e screen in front of The Star
ania avenue side. The dis11
begin at 6 p.m.
ulletins will consist of the
Press, Western Union Teleal
Telegraph Company and
al correspondents.
Star will be issued as imrant.
i "
EVERYTHING LOOKS I
ROSY TOEVERY ONE
Nobody in New York Sees How |
Anybody But His Candidate
Can Win. F
POLITICIANS ALL AT SEA
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
NEW YORK. November 6.?This is /
the day when the rival political managers
make their final boasts and
claims, telling how their party is go
ing to annihilate the other party at
the polls tomorrow. And they are not J
modest little violets In doing it either.
No diffidence of expression characterizes
their utterances, but they speak up
boldly like men and claim everything
in sight. Come next Wednesday, when
the returns are in; there will be some B
fine sets of prophets' regalias for sale
cheap. li
There is Chairman McCormick of the 0
democratic national committee, who t
declares the democrats have a chance a
of carrying Pennsylvania, and that c
President Wilson will get 364 votes in c
the college. Chairman Willcox of the l
republican national committee says Mr. I
McCormick doesn't know what he is j
talking about and that the republicans j
arc the only sure winners, with Mr.
Hughes sure of 300 votes. 3
r
Boss Murphy Claims City. i
| Boss Murphy claims the city and state
j for Wilson, Chairman Koenig of the re- v
: publican county committee is certain of 1
j a republican sweep, while Judge Seabury, *
; the democratic candidate for governor, i r
pooh poohs the whole thing and says c
/ there's nothing to it. He will win from c
| Whitman, for governor, hands down.
| In point of fact, none of them know
j a blessed thing about it in detail. There
| are so many cross currents in politics I
j that the channel buoys have been swept .
I away, and it is difficult to lay a course,
j The Star's correspondent made inquiry e
today in circles outside of the politicians, I
seeking information in high banking j,
I business quarters. At those sources the .
i belief was expressed that Hughes ap- b
I pears to have the lead. It was granted r
I that President Wilson will run strong on J
. j the popular vote, but he will not carry 3
' Vnrk N#?w Knfflanfl T?irHann nnrl ^
i Illinois, and therefore cannot win.
_ ?
'WILL DEFEND CHIHUAHUA I
.1 TO THE LAST CARTRIDGE t
i o
t
i c
| Gen. Trevino Concentrating Forces
Into Two Bodies, One to
b j Operate From Escalon. c
* l
c
EL PASO, Tex., November 6.?Ar- f
rivals here today from Chihuahua 5
stated that Gen. Trevino, Carranza s
commander, is concentrating his forces
into two bodies, one with Chihuahua c
? City as a base and the other a large 1
command which will operate as a unit \
from Escalon. This is being done, c
p they said, to prevent mobile bodies of c
^ Villa's command from attacking small ^
I and isolated Carranza garrisons.
3 "I shall stick to Chihuahua to the
a last cartridge," was the statement made
j ! by Gen. Trevino to a delegation of c
L { foreign consuls which called on him,
_ j according to one of the passengers. t
, j He said that the general explained to
i j the consuls that the placing of cannon
j on a train has given rise to the report ^
. LJicLv ji? iim.iiu.-' iv > >ai uav; iiic tuy.
i | This train, the general added, was
5 'armored so as to be sent to any point
j j on the line as military necessities de>
rnanded. He then told the consuls that
t his new system of fortifications would
stand any attack except by high ex_
i plosive shells of large caliber, which
_ ' Villa did not have and could not obs
! tain.
. j Despite the efforts of the consuls to
_ ! quiet rumors in the foreign colony, five
5 ! Frenchwomen, several Germans and
_ i other foreigners and some twenty Mex*
i ican women above the peon class, all
" j with children, came to Juarez last
; j night. Juan Trevino, who is not a
"m ; relative of the commandant of Ohi^
I h'uahua City, was one of the few man
* passengers. He brought his family
1 here and said he was on his way to
' Kansas City because of business con"
nected with the Kansas City, Mexico c
2 and Orient railway, of which he is *
"j Mexican manager.
i DEATH LIST NOW NINETY-ONE.
i i
Officials Give Out Casualties of s
! Steamer Collision Off Irish Coast. I
I BELFAST. November ?i.?The* death 1
| list as a result of the disaster to the >
f j steamers Connemara an<l Ketriever ]
s Thursday night is now set at ninety- <
s one. Eighty-two persons lost their ,
~ lives on the Connemara and nine on *
t the Retriever. Sixty-nine bodies have \
s been recovered. The collision occurred *
1 8:30 o'clock In the evening, a mile oft' <
the coast. The sole survivor of the J
s Retriever. James Boyle, was in the ,
t water half an hour clinging to an over?*
turned boat, which was washed ashore.
V. The disaster was due directly to a
storm. The incoming Retriever and 1
y the outgoing Connemara were steering .
s the proper courses to pass each other
r in the narrow channel of Greenore <
s harbor. The vessels were nearly '
" abeam when a huge wave struck the i
Retriever, laden with coal, altering
- her course. Before she could recover '
" her bow was driven amidships into the 1
Connemara, which immediately began ,
to settle, turning over five minutes j
later. The Retriever was so badly \
damaged that she sank in a quarter of
an hour. f
HUGHES THANKS WORKERS. '
t
Visits Headquarters and Spends Best ]
of Day Quietly. *
NEW YORK, November 6.?Charles E.
Hughes, the republican nominee for
President, remained at his hotel early
in the forenoon, but later visited the C
national republican headquarters, chief- *'
ly. it was stated, to thank the workers a
there for their efforts in his behalf. 11
He intended to take a drive through v
the parks this al ternoo* and spend the J:
rest of the day quietly at his hotel. K
Tomorrow he will vote in his home dis- c
trict here and tomorrow night he will r
get the returns in his hotel rooms. Eike i p
Mr. Wilson, he plans to have only im- e
mediate members of his family with | s
him when the returns cox^. * t
-\ S;_ ; ', *.
iOTH SIDES CLAIM
TO SEE VICTORY AT
POLLSTOMORROW
tepublican and Democratic
State Chairmen Forecast
Result of Election.
ACTIVITIES CONTINUE
THROUGHOUT COUNTRY
'lans Made by Leaders of Both Parties
to Get Out Heavy Vote
in Each Section.
j the Associated Press.
NEW YORK, November 6.?Political
eadquarlers hero still presented scenes
f activity today. Last reports from
he political battlefield were received
.Tid final instructions sent. Roth the
hairmen had little to add to their foreasts
issued Saturday night. Repubican
Chairman Willcox then predicted
lughes*would receive at least 100 inaority
in the electoral college. While
)emocratic Chairman McCormick gave
Ir. Wlson 364 votes in that body. The
lecessary elective vote in the college
s 266.
The larger participation of women as
roters in a presidential campaign and
he congressional elections is of keen
nterest to politicians generally. The
eturns from the states in which worn:n
will vote, it is admitted, will be
losely and anxiously scanned.
Election of Congressmen.
So far as Congress is concerned a full
louse of Representatives and thirtyhree
United States senators will be
lected. The total 'membership of the
louse is 435 and the hecessary majority
s 218. In the Senate the present membership
is ninety-six. and the necessary
najority is forty-nine. In all, thirty-five
spn.'ttnrs will take their seats next
larch. Of these the republicans elected
wo at the September election in Maine.
Forty-two of the states will elect
?tate officials tomorrow, in addition to
lational congressional candidates. Of
hesc states thirty-five will elect governors.
Fair weather and moderate temperaure
is forecast generally for election
lay, and if this prediction holds true virually
a full vote, it is expected, will be
ast throughout the country.
"It's All Over But the Shouting-.'*
The national chairmen of the demoratic
and republican committees were
x>th busy today receiving final reports
>n the results of their respective cam>aigns.
Republican Chairman Willcox's
statement was: "It's all over but the
;houting."
Chairman McCormick of the democratic
ommittee received a visit from Secrearv
of Commerce RedflelcL who recently
nade a tour of Ohio. Indiana, Wisconsin.
Minnesota and Illinois. He told the
chairman that these states were "unloubtedly
safely democratic." Both
hairmen said they expected a heavy
rote tomorrow throughout the country.
Final Appeals to Voters.
The day before election found rcpubli:an
and democratic candidates for the
governorship making final appeals to
he voters, although victory was claimed
for each of them l?y the respective
liairmen of their parties. Both selected
this city for the scene of their last
campaign activity.
Gov. Whitman had on his program
"our noonday speeches and five totiglit.
Samuel Seabury following afternoon
talks in Rockland county, wi!)
eturn to New York for an automobile
itreet corner tour of the "West Side.
Still predicting heavy pluralities for
heir respective tickets, the. state
chairmen were busy today making
inal arrangements for watching the
tolls to see that the election laws are
tbserved.
The final forecast of Republican
State Chairman Tanner is that Gov.
tVhitman, with his running mates, will
iarry the state by more than 100,000.
Democratic State Chairman Harris and
;he Tammany leaders are giving out
to specific" figures offically, but claim
hat the democratic plurality in New
fork city will l?e so heavy that it will
jvercome the republican plurality upstate.
Both Claim Connecticut.
NEW HAVEN, Conn., November *
iVith both republican and democratic
state leaders claiming Connecticut for
/.onilMatM hv 4*001
.neir respci;n*c ?
'ortable margins, the party workers
'oday made their final appeals to the
;oters. Overnight neither Chairman J.
Henry Roraback of the republican
committee nor David H. Fitzgerald,
ihairman of the#democratie committee,
saw any reason for changing their es:imates.\
The former claimed between
L5.000 and 20,000 majority for Hughes,
.vhile the latter predicted Wilson would
?arry the state by between 10,000 and
15.000 majority. Local rallies throughout
the state marked the closing hours
of the camapign.
Pennsylvania Strong for Hughes.
PHILADELPHIA. Pa., November 6.--r^inal
preparations for tomorrow's elec:ion
were completed today by the various
party leaders throughout the state,
rhe democratic leaders predict that the
argest democratic vote ever registered
n this city will be polled for President
Wilson, while republican leaders an
Licipate a majority of 150.000 or more
tor Hughes in Philadelphia and claim
le will carry the state by L'00,000.
Close tights are expected in several
>f the congressional districts, but the
-epublicans declare they will elect the
tour congressmen at large and representatives
from twenty-seven of the
hirty-two congressional districts,
democrats are making strenuous ef- '-j
torts to increase their present representation
of six from this state.
Activities Continue in Bay State.
BOSTON, November 6.?Both republfan
and democratic party managers
lanned today to carry their camp&igu
tctivities up to the last possible monent
before the election. Gov. McCall.
vho seeks re-election, and his demoratic
opponent. Frederick \V. Mansield,
made their linal pleas on the
tump in this city, and rallies, many*
if them in the open air, were aranged
fo* all parts of the state. RelUblican
leaders remained firm in their
stimates of victory tomorrow for both
tate and national tickets, including
he return of Senator J^enry Cabot
' J?
