rwnMpfr
NIGHT
EXTRA
TP11
wiwvlwuhh v w viwuwiuijj i ji v w lmmvwjmmtmM pi
jp
INANCIAL EDITIONv
"p
fw
ttuenmg
jSTRA
;
AjV
ssfcTTossfc. fc-t f
ffe&ger
NIGHT-
EXTRA
4F
'
?
.r
Kvoii. m. no. 40
IT AND WINK
.ELECTION PLAN
LIKED BY WIVES
J o
CHuehes or Wilson Tidings
for JtlUDDiua vvitiiuuu
Trip Downtown
rivENlNG LEDGER TO TEDL
f"f ,nTAXI TimUffnTATPT.V
SU DEUJ.OAU1N lwiDiaui
KrkfttlM and Arc Lights Will
Record Jesuit xu "
Hughes, Five for Wilson
I STOP, LOOK AND -LISTEN
Whistles to Blow Election
News in Nearby Sections
THE Evening Ledcek invites man
ufacturers in adjacent territory in
New Jersey, Delaware and Pennsyl
vania to participate in the whistling
contest This newspaper will agree
to flash the election result tomorrow
to any manufacturer who desires to
donate his whistle. For particulars
communicate with Whistle Editor
of Evening Ledger.
Stage is set for the most astonish
ing dissemination of news of na
tional import in world's history.
Chief McLaughlin, of Electrical Bu
reau, will wink the lights and en
gineers will blow whistles of facto
ries at word from Evening Ledger.
How good Is your eyesight?
Hoir rood Is your hearing?
ron irlll have, an oDDortunltv to test both
r f ih Invaluable, senses tomorrow nleht
K'fcn th Eyinino Ledqer wlnka and blows
ft the presidential election results to every
mn, woman ana cnna in jnuaaeipma.
S Simultaneously, when the jjvenino
LiDOin receives the decision In ono of the
Bt!on's most Important national elections,
nke 18,000 or more aro lights In Phlla-
Ejlnhla.s llffhtlne system will wink tho
Pmwi and factory whistles of wide whistling
Kdlui will blow tho presidential tidings.
K will be tha first time In the world's his.
kry that 1,100,000 persons lmo learned
titaiilUneousIy through the medium of the
Ltwo senses (eyesight and hearing) news of
! t momentous national event. It will be the
. .i . .. .,., . :...
s m lime m me uisiury oi any nauon mat
if tae residents of a great city have been In-
It' fcrmed all at once by the medium of light
tj.Vtala ot the victory of a candidate for the
lfNfaefi ojitoo in me ia,na.
sociological signipicance
: The EvsNiro XxdobtCb wink-blow plan
I already selied upon the Imagination of
i entire country and has won tho ap-
1 of noted students of problems deal
(Vflh modern mpthnria of MmmunliMtUi.
JfelMM men say that tho plan has a socio-
i uki iignuicunce wnicn may open up en-
ray new nelds In the matter .of impress.
! things of profound human 'Importance
fee the consciousness of great masses of
j strums. Those who have faith In the con-i-Haaed
growth of altruism and the com.
V patty spirit declare that tho Evknino
I "? 'wlnkb,ow ,dea w111 reult In ad
K Hotfeg these causes and promoting- public
The plan has another Important signlfl-
ww -woicn snould not be overlooked, It
, Kesilses to stimulate tiatrlntlsm nA a
LHr and deeper Interest in public affairs.
jjwru said today that this condition Is
.u.o nuca i,uuu,uuu persons locus
Important senses unnn n. rnt nn,innt
itSSML
SCHEME WIDENS
,10 iVE.-ONO LEDOEn's toot.nnH.nlnI
t.. i . . - "
. ui oeen aaontd tiv rn..ti.i. x-
or Metiter Hav ..n.-i' '
rfu... .. . - ---- .....aBc
' ," "'"" "shUng sen Ice, will follow
!w or the Evening- Ledoer and at
"fat tomorrow will rmtlfv -.n.i
WTH tt9 Presidential result by winking
t H on U16 at reft t nnH In ..u.....
factories have adopted the Evknjno
Whlatla rn,l. '
JJEvn,no LED0BR invUes all man-
i In adjacent territory in len.
RJtar Jersey and DelaWre to loin
k. . ooBR'a whistling contest.
"urer of th r..,,K . ..
yhi.,u. ' "" Vey can blow
'WlM on schedule time. For furth..
r nf ,fcC0mmUn'Cat8 wUh, thB Whistle
r'M the EtBSim T.nn..
"c-b.tacluWtath.ThilS;
S-J?. .? aiow mental
W- 7 "7 MBcttM ' "anting
-. .::-.. lomo--ow night Re
- tug iVKNTMn
' li:
tsBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBsKSkr' I !' ' II
iIbbbbbbbbPVL " IbbbbbbbbbbW
t 5rlc -. ViW m i T tt TvVk ssswi
IssssssssssssswLl, hrBrMBW JilftM 4Z!jibbbbHR
1' in mm X hmV.lsisMlwfcn il i-ivnfi.ni - ui-
nilLADELPniA, 3IOXDAY, X"OV0iJ3kUIEIt (, lillG
CoMiionr, 1010, at tiisrcauo Ltpoim Cowrixt
PRICE ONE CENT
COURTS ASKED TO DISSOLVE
PENSION MUTUAL LIFE, AFTER
INSURANCE OFFICIALS' PROBE
Letter Carriers and Po
licemen of Philadel
phia Affected
"HIGH FINANCE" SEEN
Company Snid to Have Been
Toy of Political Schemers
and Lacked Assets '
GEN. SIR BRYAN T. MAHON
Plnccd in command of the military
forces in Ireland, succeeding Sir
John Maxwell, whose methods
aroused bitter resentment among
the Irish.
BIG FORE RIVER
SHIPYARDS MAY
BE MOVED HERE
Commerce Chamber Hopes
to Augment Pre-eminence
of Delaware River
SCHWAB'S AID SOUGHT
Lena-En wink
T;.n:ber that th Ev"'
wuMn ,, r.-.i,eua avt blow..
C '. can emu. . ..
I is ...! uii. unless he
V.- ln.k proor an1 Wow Proof celler.
Wrjeult fo the vibration of powerful
?." v nlt underground.
H V ,very vidence that the arcllghts
, Cwthmej tn r. Twa Coumn r((w
TgE WEATHER
FORECAST ,
W PkUadelBhta j ....... .
W o $outh winds.
-Ur i v. W5BT
fCr;lai 2 fV?!. w!r 67 d. m.
t...-.L. 'J", wir,ilUJ , m
fH5 T KACH Ml)K
-ii -ui-30En.?n
usijH..4frr
vra.
p. m.
fkl
, W
Concerted efforts are belnp made by mem
bers Of tho Chamber of Commerce.1 to ltaVe
the Fore River Shipbuilding Company, one
ot the largest construction companies of its
kind in the United States, remove its yards
and plants from Qulncy, Mass , to the banks
of the Delaware Hher.
Although no definite action has been
taken by tho Tore nier Company to the
present date, the recent announcement that
the company served notice on the author
ities at Qulncy that unless the taxes re
cently Increased are lowered the company
will move its plant from that city, is con
sidered favorable' to the campaign being
conducted by the Chamber of Commerce.
The industrial bureau of the Chamber
of Commerce has been directing efforts to
have the company come to the "Clyde of
America," namely, the Delaware IUver, for
the last six months. It was learned today
that several prominent Fhlladelphlans are
endeavoring to secure the Interest and ap
proval of Charles M. Schwab, the steel mag
nate and recognized controlling power of the
Fore River Company, In the proposed
change. """
The vigor of the campaign being con
ducted by the Chamber of Commerce was
explained today by F. W. Alexander, sec
retary of the Industrial Bureau. He said:
"Months ago we canvassed the entire
shipbuilding Industry of the United States,
asklnV them to come to this section of the
country. We are directing special efforts
toward the Fore River Company.
"There is no reason why that company
Bhould not be on the Delaware River. Every
facility for labor and for material that goes
Into ehlp construction work Is here, and
there is no question that we have the land
for sites Jn 'Greater Philadelphia' and
vicinity.
"Efforts have been made to Interest the
Fore River Company to come here for some
time, and we are preparing to press our
argument with renewed vigor since this
disagreement has risen at Qulncy.
"We are endeavoring to enlist the Interest
of Charles M. Schwab, who represents the
controlling Interest of the company, In, our
proposition. Conditions that would espe
cially Interest the Fore River Company'pre
vail In this section."
Mr, Alexander went on to explain that
the Bethlehem Steel Company is erecting
new plants that will cost millions of dol
lars; that the facilities for shipping pro.
ductlons of the BteeJ company to any point
along the DNaware River were most favor
able, and that .otner shipbuilding Industries
In which Schwab was directly Interested
were along the same river.
The Fore River Shipbuilding Company la
a $5,000,000 plant, covering seventy.foilr
BCrea of ground at Qulncy, and employs
some E00O persons. It may be compared In
size as nearly as large as the Cramp Ship,
building Company, ot this city.
In addition to the work of Interesting
the. Fore IUver Shipbuilding Company, the
Chamber of Commerce la acting as coun
selor and adviser In the promotion of a
new iO,000,000 ehlp construction company
with a. proposed site within the limits f f
greater Philadelphia.
Dorough to Have First Election
Dryn Athyn, the Swedenborglan settle,
ment In the northern suburban neotloa
recently Incorporated as a borough, will
Siave its flrst election tomorrow, There
ore Myeaty-oM vaUra In Um mw borough,
mad. a. Mlt shews ft MtfjMttr tt HhsbbhsV
Application was made today In Harris
burg through the Attorney General's de
partment for n decree of dlrolutlon for the
Pension Mutual Life Insuranco Company,
of Pittsburgh. Tho application made to
tho Dauphin County Court will contain a
request for an order to cease transaction of
business until Its nffalrs are heard by the
court. This notion follows an examination
made by the State Insurance Department
Many, If not all, of the lettcrcarrlcrs
and some ot the police ot Philadelphia are
Insured In this compan.
Tho assets ot the Pension Mutual Life
Insurance Company, which has a branch
omce In this city, are understood to be
seriously Impaired. If the company's treas
ury la lacking In real assets to the extent
of more than (1,000,000, as wa reported
today In Insurance circles here. In Harrls
burg and in Pittsburgh, the earnings and
savings of thousands of hard-working men
and women have been lost.
"HIGH, FINANCE" CHARGED
It Is said that the company has been
made the football of "high finance." Back
of tne troubles of the company was a schemo
by which It was expected, through the po.
session of the assets of the Pension Mutual
Company and gullibility of a too credulous
public, assisted by political schemers, to
lay hold ot the treasuries of some sixty or
eighty other life Insurance companies.
The Pension Mutual Life Insurance Com
pany was incorporated In 1860, and little
was known of It until its reorganization in
1912 by Us present president, Lyndon V.
Wood, who Is well known In this city, In
New York and In Pittsburgh.
Mr. Wood is also president of the Con
solidated Investment Company, 809-13
Finance Building. South Penn square.
Since its reorganization the Pension
Mutual Life has had a rather precarious
existence. It is tho outgrowth of the con.
'solidatlon of a number of email companies,
and on at least one other occcaslon has
been under the ban of the Stato Insurance
Department,
In the report on fllo In the Insurance
Department at Harrlsburg for the year
ending December 31, 1S1E, and which has
not yet been published, the gross assets of
the Pension Mutual Life aro shown to be
$1,4:1,383.14 and the net assets 31,347,-
452.65, the difference of $73,939.60 being
"written off" by the insurance department,
or. In other words, ','not allowed" The
liabilities amounted to $474,740, with a
slight Increase In the capital stock.
Of the above ledger assets, $1,073,300,93
represented the book valuo of bonds owned.
The remainder were miscellaneous holdings.
COMPANY'S STATUS
The report also states there were no
claims for death losses during the year, no
collateral loans In force, no loans dis
charged and no real estate sold.
On December "CI, 1914, almost a year
previous, the records In the Insurance De
partment in Harrlsburg show that the de
partment did not think nil was well In the
affairs of the Pension Mutual Life and an
examination was made hy Chief l'xamlner
William J. Roney on that date. His report
indicates that the State Department waa
suspicious that the bonds which the com
pany held did not belong to the company.
Pension Mutjial Life
Insurance Company Facts
THE Pension Mutunl Life Insur
ance Company rtcquircd charter ot
Stato Insurance Company.
Had been In business since Feb
ruary 1, 1912.
Located in Pittsburgh.
Lyndon U. Wood, president;
Charles II. Fritch, secretary.
Gross assets for enr
ending December .11,
1915, as shown by re- ,
port on flic in office
of Insurance Commis
sioner in HarrisburK.. SI. 121,382.11
Net assets 1,347, 152.5.1
Liabilities 471.7 10.00
Capitnl stock 849,829.00
Unassigncd funds 22,887.5.1
Total liabilities 1.317,452.55
AUSTRO-GERMANS
CRUSH ENEMIES IN
CAMPOLUNG DRIVE
Break Russo-Rumanian Re
sistance in Transylvanian
Alps, Berlin Says
REGAIN SAILLY GROUND
Continued on rase Four. Column One
The Russo-Rumanlan resistance be
twecn Rothenthurm and Predcal passes
las been broken by the advance of Gen
eral Falkenhayn's troop3, tho Berlin
War Office announced today. By their
latest successes in this region the Aus-tro-Germans
have increased the men
ace to Campulung, key to Bucharest
from the cast. Campulune occupies
the same relation to Bucharest from
the east which Cernnvoda, captured by
Mackensen, occupies from the west.
The capfure of Campulung would,
therefore, open tho road for an ad
vance of tho Teutons on the Rumanian
capital from tho east.
Terrific fighting is inprogress in the
Transylvanian Alps and the losses on
both sicdsvaTe extremely heavy.
Renewal of the Allied offensive on
the Somme front has been met by furi
ous German counter-attacks.
Reports from General Haig, from
Paris and Berlin agree that bitter fight
ing marked yesterday and last night.
The German statement declared tho
British and French attacks were made
with great force and supported by al
most unexampled artillery fire. Gen
eral Haig reported the necessity of
relinquishing positions near Butte dc
Warlencourt in the face of strong Ger
man attacks last night. Butte do War
lencourt is at the bend of the new
British line toward Bapaume, and the
positions evacuated had just been
wrested from the Teutons.
German reports declared the Allied
attack was on a front of twenty kilo
meters, between Lc Sars and Boucha
vesnes. No important gain is announced to
day on the Carso plateau by the Italian
War Office. Dispatches from the front,
however, say that the Italians 'are about
to enter the important road-center of
Castagnievizza, where the Austro-
QUICK NEWS
BRITAIN PERMITS DYE SHIPMENT TO U. S.
WASHINGTON', Nov. 0. The Customs Department announced
this afternoon that with special permission ftom Qreat Britain a
hsipment of dyes reported to be worth $1,000,000 was now in rou.c
to New York from Qerma,ny for use by this Government In printing
paper money. The dyes were shipped through Holland and nre en
boifrd the Nlcu Amsteulnm, Hollnnd-Amctlcan liner. Other ship
ments nie to follow. '
JOCKEY TANSY KILLED IN PIMLIC0 STEEPLECHASE
PIML1CO RACE TRACK, Plmllco, Md , Nov. 0. T. Tansy, well
known stceplcchnbo Jockey, was killed Instantly here this afternoon
when 1i)h mount. Reliance, stumbled. H. Pcrrltt, who tode Torero, waf
seriously Injured and may tile. Two other jockeys were also hmt In
the nilx-up, following Reli.mcc's fall
FORMER AMERICAN STEAMSHIP SUNK BY SUBMARINE
LONDON", Nov. 6. Tho steamship I.anao, formerly owned by an American
Arm in tho Philippines, was sunk by n submnrlno October 28. Tho Norwegian
Hte.imshlp Tiomp brought thirty l.nnno survivors to Harry, Wales. Lloyd's first
announced that tho l.aniio was nn American ship. It was salil Inter In maritime
circles that It hail been sold nnd transferred from American to Norwegian registry
BETWEEN $9,000,000 AND $10,000,000 BET ON ELECTION
NHW VOItlC. Nov C Uctvvfeen $9,000,000 nnd $10,000,000 Will change hands
over tho election, if estimates of betting expert1 here and In tho larger cltlct loday
nie correct Commissioners hero figured that $5,000,000 to $6,000,000 will bo New
York's total vvagcrlng, vvhllo closo to $2,500,000 was reported placed tn Chicago,
Denver, San ivnnclsco, Cincinnati, Pittsburgh, Cleveland and Indianapolis, With
considerable unrecorded betting In tho.se places nnd elsewhere.
TEXAS COTTON MAN'S NAME OFF BRITISH BLACKLIST
WASHINGTON, Nov. C Tho British Embassy notified tho State Department
this afternoon that tho British Torclgn Ofllce had removed tho namo of II. Kcmpner,
cotton exporter of Galveston, Tex., from tho blacklist.
"BIG 4" STATES
MAIN PIVOTS IN
New York, Illinois, Ohio,
Indiana Hold Bal
ance of Power
WOMEN BIG FACTOR
IN CASTING BALLOTS
President Will Be Chosen
by Nation's 18,000,000 ,
Voters
FIVE TICKETS IN FIELD'
GERMAN PROFESSOR, BORN HERE, MARKS 70TH BIRTHDAY
UnitLlN, Nov 6 Dr. Caspir ltene Gregory, professor of theology at tho
University of Leipzig, celebrated his seventieth birthday today. Professor Gregory
was boin In 1840 In Philadelphia and was graduated from tho University of Penn
Hhanla in 18G4. Sliuo 1884 ho has been a member of the faculty of Leipzig Uni
versity. In 18S9 he was appointed profeisoi of theolog).
TEXAS NEGRO LYNCHED FOR KILLING WHITE MAN
HAY CITY, Tex , Nov. C. Joo Johnf on, a negro, accused of killing a white man,
was taken from Jail hero edrly today and hanged by a. mob.
CARDINAL DELLA VOLPE, CHAMBERLAIN, DIES
ROSJH. Nov. 6. Cardlnnl 1'rancls della Volpe, Chamberlain of the Catholic
Church and prefect of the Congregation of the Index, died today.
tunorv rrviuMTTTcna a at.' mnnrTiifDVTrf
'" ," ,V.WA.J ""- .V O.V.IV, ,,,
The South Jersey Commuters Association will ask; the Pennsylvania Itallroad
for train service out of Uroad Street Station to all stations on tho Pennsylvania
K8tem tn South Jersey nnd the ollmlnatlon of the Camden ferries. Counsel for
the commuter have expressed tho opinion that under tho charter of the Delaware
River Drldgo Itallroad, which is now used only for seashore express trains, the
railroad must furnish uicominodatlon. Thu courts nnd tho Interstate Commerce
Commission can both bo appealed to, with a fair chance of success, the commuters'
counsel sas.
Continued on fare Tour, Column Thrto
BRITISH SHIPS OF 6000 AND 1000 TONS SUNK
LONDON, Nov. C. Llod'B announces that the Uritisli steamships Clan Leslie
and Statesman h.ive been sunk. Tho Clan Leslie was 3927 tons gross. Tho last
report of her shows sho sailed August 4 frorfl Llvetpool for Bombay. Tho States
man registered C173 tons.
DIAZ GENERALS WILL LEARN THEIR FATE TODAY
MEXICO CITY, Nov. 6, Generals Melxulero, Hlos, Castillo and Slguciros, of
tho Fellt Diaz forces, who surrendered to tho Carranz.i fSrces under General Luis
Gutierrez at MnlpaHO and Curnlcerlus, State of Oaxnca, have arrived here. General
Obregon, tho Minister of War, will i,iss on their cases today.
DEATH TOLL OF SHIP COLLISION REACHES 91
HCLFAST, Nov. C, -Tho death list as a result of tho collision und sinking of
tho steamships Coiinemarn nnd Itetrlever on Thursday night Is now net nt ninety
one. Hlghty-two persons lost their lives on the Connemara nnd nlno on tho Ito
trlover. Sixty-nine bodies havo been recovored.
D'ANNUNZIO GETS RANK OF CAPTAIN FOR BRAVERY
HO.Mi:, Nov. !!. Gabrtelo d'Annuii-do. tho poet and novelist, lius been promoted
Jo tho grado of captain for gallantry In action. General Cadorna, In conferring the
Tionor, says in nil order that d'AnnunzIo em October 10 and 11, by word and deed,
net u notablo exumple for tho troops attacking two Austrian positions.
ESCAPING GAS KILLS '
BROTHER iND SISTER
Roomers Suffocate When Fellow
Tenant Puts Quarter in
; Slot Meter
Gaj caused the death of brother and
Bister and two doss at 208 Ellsworth street,
where the bodies were found today. The
room In which they lay was rented by the
woman, Mrs. Catherine MoArdle, Her
brother. William J Lon&, had called to slvlt
her last night.
Circumstances showed that an accident
was responsible,' The brother and sister
had been drinking beer, and while they
were sleeping off Its effects the gas supply
furnished by one ot the quarter meters ran
out. It was replenished by another tenant,
and two open Jets were found In the room
where theseTersons were sleeping.
The gas meter Is In the basement and
supplies the whole libuse.
Police who Investigated said They had
seldom coma across a scene vvfiere poverty
and uncleanllness were so pronounced. The
place was described as filthy,
Mr Dora Joseph, the landlady at 208
Klliiworth strict, said Mrs. tcArdle's
brother called there about 6 o'clock, last
night, and that after that neither he nor his
sister werS seen again until their bodies
were found today. They had fallen asleep
qn separate beds In the room, leaving their
supper of a meat and potato btew cooking
on the ga stove.
The woman's husband, John Jr. McArdle,
Is a, munition worker aVCarneys Point He
has bn notlfled As Kir as can be learned
tha broibtr was m Imduh, formerly mm.
pyi kur Um Hum las QMtMny.
WATCHMAN CATCHES
WATCHMAN IN KIMONO
Alphonse Gentilo'a Quick Change
of Garb Proves His
Undoing
..
Advance displays of Christmas gifts may
bs the harbinger of "peace and good will"
to most I'hlladelphlans, but to Alphonse
Oentllo, ex-night watchman, they mean the
Instrument by which he may spend De
cember 25 behind, the bars.
For six weeks Alphonse had held the Job
of night watchman In the clothing emporium
of M. Silverman & Sous, whose dummies
with wax faces attract the crowds at Sixth
and South streets. The Job of Alpliotme
may well be explained by simple artlh
metlc; the longer he held the Job, the more
stock disappeared from the store.
, Last night was the, night. Thelianager,
j;dward A Smith, thought that a closer
watch on Alphonse would unravel the ms
tery of the missing vve.tr for women. Ho
secreted one of his trusted men In a Christ
mas compartment on the third floor one
of those arrangements where pasteboard
Icicles crown the red cap of Santa himself.
So the "fk" Santa looked on.
The trusted man sweated In the heavy
atmosphere until the early hours of tha
morning, when debonair Alphonse arrived
nnd undressed. The trusted man blushed,
but not before be had seen, the night watch
man placs a woman's klmpnof beneath hi
suit Sm.th was called Alphonse protest
ing. w overpowered and led away to a
cell, from yiblch he was later brought be
fore Magistrate liarrlgan
"Where was the other watchman!" asked
the Magtetrate.
"Alo," replied the witnesses.
( fcwdred ftw-wwrt." ia.14 Harrljnn,
wM . , , Y
WEDDING BELLS RING
ON INTERNED RAIDER
Lieutenant Hespe, Whose Mar
riage Was Delayed by War,
Takes German Bride
War that blocked their wedding plans for
two j cars was conquered today at noon
when Lieutenant Paul Hespe, second In
command of the interned German commerce
raider Prlnx nitel Priedrlch. and Mlus Hllde
Schwleger, of Hamburg, Germany, were
tnarrled On board the ship at League Island,
Tho ceremony was simple, and out of
deference to their war-hemmed Fatherland
the couple recelvod ho presents. They were
married In the music salon of tho converted
liner by the I lev Julius Hoffman, a Luth
eran minister, of llaltlmore, upon an altar
decorated. Willi two flags American and
Gerinan against a background of autumn
leaves and chrysanthemums Captain Hob.
ert lee ltiiKsell commandant of the Phila
delphia Navy Yard, and his staff; Captain
Thlerlchens, of the Print Ultel, and his
staff und about twenty civilians witnessed
tho ceremony.
The wedding march was plajed by the
ship's string orchestra, and thu crew, en
joying a holiday, sang the old German folk.
Bongs. The wedding dinner, crowned with
a huge German wedding cake, was served
in the dining salon, where was suspended
the German naval ensign, to which the
monograms of the couple had been added.
After the wedding Lieutenant and Mrs.
Hespe left for a three weeks' honeymoon,
made possible through permission granted
by Secretary of the Navy Daniels,
i
Hughes Loses Rockefeller YoUs
NEW YOUK, Nov 6 Charles B. Hughes
will be shy two votes tomorow from the
flockefeilers, for John D and his son failed
to register, as they were out of town, and
some mistake was made about their notlH
eatfesj at i proir reghrtratteM tints.
SIX TRAINMEN KILLED
WHEN CARS RUN AWAY
Freight Train on Pennsy's New
Portagd Cut-Off Crashes
Into Locomotives
ALTOONA, Pa.. Nov, 6. Six men are
dead and one is dying as a result of a crash
that occurred when a coal train on the
Pennsylvania Railroad's new Portage cut
off ran away on the eastern slope of the
Allegheny -Mountains this morning. The
runaway crashed Into four locomotives
u New Portage Junction, five miles south
Of Altoona Forty-Beven of the sixty
cars were wrecked Only one body has been
recovered, that of W. II. -Thompson, KaBt
Altoona, fireman on tho runaway These
men are almost certainly burled under the
debris
A. It sting, engineer; It. C, Schum, con
ductor, Frank Fry, brakemun, all of Cone
inaugh, on the runaway; It, C, Jackson, en
gineer, and J. II. Gorton, fireman, on one
of the locomotives which stoppe'tf the run
away, W A Ilaker, engineer, 'Juniata, la dying
of a fractured skull. '
The wreckage took fire Immediately, the
coal burned fiercely and rescue work was
delayed by the fire, Flie-tlghtlng appar
atus was rushed to the scene from Altoona,
It will take hours to clear away Hie debris
and recover the bodies of the missing men.
How the train got beyond control Is not
known.
Hack llrokan When Painter Falls
William Pharo, thirty-five years, 0I4, of
Philadelphia and formerly of New Jersey,
is in the Dryn Mawr Hospital suffering
from a broken back as th result of a fall
on Saturday from a soaXoid at Ardnors.
Th man U a painter. Ms ooaAitiuu U
serious. '
Prevailing Election Odds
in This City and New York
PHILADELPHIA BETTING
GENERAL result Even money
nnd 10 to 9 on Hughes.
On New Jersey Even money.
On New York Even money and
10 to 9 on Hughes.
NEW YORK BETTING
General result 10 to 8 offered; 10
to 7 asked on Hughes.
On New York 2 to 1 on Hughes.
On New Jersey 10 to 9 on
Hughes.
On Ohio 10 to 7 on Wilson.
IN CHICAGO
Gcncrnl result ID fn7 nn tTnrrVio.
Wilson supporters taking all money
UlllTCU.
IN LONDON
Lloyds quotes even money on result.
NHW YOniC.. Nov. 6. Tomorrow the
American voter sajs who will 'be the next
President of tho United States, dictates who
will compose tha Senate and chooses mem
bers of tho House ot Representatives. .
Viewing tho situation today, twenty-four
hours In advance of the battle ot the bal
lots, and with claims from both Democrats
and Republicans, cocksure of victory. It ap
peared that tho people of New York, Il
linois, Ohio and Indiana would come the
nearest to holding tho balance of poorer.
Both sides claim this "big four" of, States.
Their total In the Electoral College is 113
nearly forty-three per cent of tho 266 votes,
necessary to a choice.
The strictest neutral or oven th
Btrongei!t-IUpubllcan,-for that.nyitUr con'-'
cedes the Democrats the "solid. South" -
block of 136 votes. This 136 comprises tht
electoral votes of Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama,
Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas,
Tennessee nnd Oklahoma. It docs not In
clude Missouri and Kentucky, heretofore
classified as component purts of the solid"
South and this year claimed by Democrats1
still to be In that section, but adjudged by
Republicans to be debatable ground.
In the presidential race, therefore, Hughe
starts off with his opponent given a handi
cap 'ot 136 votes. But he also has been
granted by Democrats' a handicap from
scratch of seventy votes the electoral to
tal of six States Maine, New Hampshire,
Vermont, Rhodo Island' Pennsjlvanla and
Iowa. .
RliAL TURNING POINT
That leaves Wilson with a net handicap
In the vute race ot slxty-slx shares In tht
electoral college.
In Illinois lies the real enigma close to
8b0,000 new women voters. Because they'
nro new In their exercise of the franchise
and because they are women, political prog
nosticators were exceedingly shy In making
any predictions' on the State today
In New York, the Stato with tho forty
five votes In the electoral college, the
problem the Republicans faced was to keep
the New York clTy normal Democratic
majority down and boost up the normal
Republican up-State majority to as high
a point as possible. Publicly the last
minute claims on both sides were:
Republicans Hughes will win by from
100,000 to 150,000.
Democrats Wilson will win by at least
100,000.
Indiana and Ohio have been strenuous
battle grounds during the campaign. The
air has been filled with oratory, red fire,
debate and charges and counter-charges.
Republicans particularly want a clean
Hweep In Indiana because there aro two
Senators up for election there. National
Democratic Chairman McCormick wo
authority for the declaration that the Re
publicans concede loss ot Ohio.
Tomorrow about 13,000,000 cltlxens ot the,
Un ted States will select the twenty-ninth
President and Vice President of the Re-
public.
Although there are nve national tiCKeta
In the field, and one lone vice presidential
aspirant, It Is certain that only two of thess
tickets will flgun very largely In the vote
counting The twenty-ninth President, therefor,
will be either woourow wii-an or cnarie
Uvans JIughes, the first a Democrat, th
second a Jlepumicax
The unsuccessful ones will be;
Socialist For President, Allan L. Ben-,
son, of New Yprk, and for Vice President, -
Ueorge It. KlrpatrlcK. of rsew jersey.
Prohibitionist J Frank Ilanly, of In.
dlapa, and Ira Lambrlth, of Maw
i
O
J
.
'VI
t.
J
i
Social Labor Arthur B. Relmr,
Massachusetts, and Caleb Harrison,
Illinois. . .
Progressive Jpbn M. Parker, of Louisi
ana, vice presidential candidate. '
SOME 0F TUB 18UK8
Briefly summarised, tho two, groat psrtha.
will stand tomorrow for thane great Unww
and In thta list art given ly Ms
standing issues: ' '
Democrats: , '
"Wilson kt Hi wit of war,"
A vote for Rtt1M Is a. veto, for vft
Wilson stands for psM wKfc'Vsipr j4
TtM tarl for rki wlldy hM rti vj
Its entire warKu w,
Republicans:
Wwtkiuuu of tit a4mbil4miM'a ltastajsj
nolle. k.t.r.i
IsW VassBsV sr -r "w. Tb jWasfaaJSiS" JJP
',,
Sr&ii
